^zmmmm 
mm' 
%*m 
*  m 
 - 1 - 
974.4 
M386p 
Ser.2 
v. 7 
1128359 
fa*  &ZAk 
*1 
s^i- 
'%$$M^m0 
"5M 
rv 
■;i«v; 
3$s 
%v#^t^5* 
^JXtuSS^ll 
^®#>: 
*.«i 
&&W 
6'--  •     c 
*\*^Vjfe« 
 - 2 - 
..-' 
ALLEN  COUNTY  PUBLIC  LIBRARY 
3  1833  000837614           J-.   IgenealogyH 
T        1974.4 
[386P 
iSER.2 
2v.7 
^b^' 
*b&& 
'& 
m  * 
■"***• 
rw 
l^ftr 
^•y 
if 
W: 
§ 
1^ 
0     #•    
iNC^j .5V 
'}  •
:.tjS@"&:. 
i#; 
a,.  .,3* 
^^J'4 
*M  *. 
:»» 
rarely 
V%^^^^^^^ 
 - 3 - 
OKNEALOGY  COLLECTION 
 - 4 - 
 - 5 - 
Digitized  by  the  Internet  Archive 
in  2013 
http://archive.org/details/proceedingsofmass2v7mass 
 - 6 - 
 - 7 - 
Committee  of  Publication. 
EDWARD   J.  YOUNG. 
ALEXANDER  McKENZIE. 
CHARLES   C.   SMITH. 
 - 8 - 
 - 9 - 
 - 10 - 
PROCEEDINGS 
OP    THE 
assatjpigetts  historical  %>mdi 
Second  Sebies.  —  Vol.  VII. 
1891,  1892. 
Pufcltsfjefc  at  tfje  GTfjarae  of  tJje  &znml  JFuntr. 
BOSTON: 
PUBLISHED    BY    THE    SOCIETY. 
M.DCCC.XCII. 
 - 11 - 
University  Press: 
John  Wilson  and  Son,  Cambridge. 
 - 12 - 
P  E  E  F  A  C  E. 
1128359 
This  volume  comprises  the  Proceedings  at  nine  stated 
meetings  of  the  Society,  beginning  with  October,  1891, 
and  ending  with  June,  1892,  both  inclusive.  Among 
the  most  important  communications  submitted  at  these 
meetings  are  the  papers  by  Charles  Francis  Adams 
on  the  site  of  the  Wessagusset  Settlement;  by  Mellen 
Chamberlain  on  Governor  Winthrop's  Estate  ;  
by  Charles 
Francis  Adams,  Abner  C.  Goodell,  Jr.,  Mellen  Cham- 
berlain, and  Edward  Channing  on  the  Genesis  of  the 
Massachusetts  Town  ;  
by  Justin  Winsor  on  the  Results 
of  Cartier's  Explorations  ;  and  the  Diaries  of  Lawrence 
Hammond,  Lucian  Minor,  Ezra  Stiles,  Eli  Forbes,  and 
Benjamin  Boardman.  There  are  also  a  number  of 
hitherto  unpublished  letters  of  historical  or  biographi- 
cal interest.  Memoirs  of  seven  members  are  given, 
namely,  Thomas  Aspinwall,  by  Charles  C.  Smith; 
Francis  W.  Palfrey,  by  John  C.  Ropes;  Charles 
Deane,  by  Justin  Winsor;  Henry  M.  Dexter,  by 
John  E.  Sanford  ;  Charles  Devens,  by  John  C. 
Ropes;   Samuel  C.  Cobb,  by  James  M.  Bugbee;  and 
 - 13 - 
VI  PREFACE. 
Augustus  T.  Perkins,  by  William  H.  Whitmore.  Each 
of  these  memoirs  is  accompanied  by  a  portrait;  and 
there  are  also  two  fac-similes,  one  showing  the  site  of 
the  settlement  at  Wessagusset,  and  the  other  repro- 
ducing a  
deed  from  Governor  Winthrop  to  John 
Newgate  in  the  handwriting  of  Thomas  Lechford. 
For  the  Committee, 
CHARLES    C.    SMITH. 
Boston,  October  1,  1892. 
 - 14 - 
CONTENTS. 
PAGE 
Preface                                                                                                                  v 
List  of  Illustrations                                                                           xiii 
Officers  Elected,  April,  1892       xv 
Resident  Members                                                                       xvi 
Honorary  and  Corresponding  Members     xviii 
Members  Deceased                                                                           xx 
OCTOBER   MEETING,    1891. 
Remarks  on  the  death  of  James  Russell  Lowell,  by  the  Presi- 
dent       1 
Remarks  by  Charles  Francis  Adams     3 
Remarks  by  E.  R.  Hoar                                                           5 
Remarks  by  Horace  E.  Scudder       6 
Paper  on  Horace  Walpole  on  America,  by  Robert  C.  Winthrop, 
with  Introductory  Remarks  by  R.  C.  Winthrop,  Jr.  .     .  7 
NOVEMBER   MEETING,    1891. 
Remarks,  in  communicating  a  Latin  letter  of  Samuel  Winthrop 
and  a  fragment  of  an  anonymous  letter,  by  R.  C.  Win- 
throp, Jr                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                11 
Account  of  visits  to  Dartmoor  Prison  and  to  Peter  O.  Hutch- 
inson by  
Edward  L.  Pierce,  communicated  by  Justin 
Winsor                                                                                       17 
 - 15 - 
Vlll  CONTENTS. 
PAGE 
Despatch  of  Samuel  R.  Thayer,  descriptive  of   three  Dutch 
medals,  communicated  by  Samuel  A.  Green     ....  19 
Paper  on  the  Site  of  the  Wessagusset  Settlement  b}r  Charles 
Francis  Adams                                                                        22 
Remarks  try  Henry  W.  Haynes         29 
Remarks,  in  communicating  a  Memoir  of  Thomas  Aspinwall, 
by  Charles  C.  Smith                                                                      30 
Memoir  of  Thomas  Aspinwall,  b}'  Charles  C.   Smith  ...  32 
Memoir  of  Francis  W.  Palfrey,  by  John  C.  Ropes  ....  39 
Memoir  of  Charles  Deane,  by  Justin  Winsor        45 
Memoir  of  Henry  M.  Dexter,  by  John  E.  Sanford      ...  90 
Memoir  of  Charles  Devens,  b}T  John  C.  Ropes   .....  104 
DECEMBER   MEETING,  1891. 
List  of  Memoirs  in  the  Collections  of  the  Society,  communi- 
cated by  
Samuel  A.  Green                                                    121 
Paper  on   Governor   Winthrop's    Estate,    communicated    by 
Mellen  Chamberlain                                                           127 
JANUARY  MEETING,  1892. 
Remarks,  in  communicating  the  Diary  of  Lawrence  Hammond, 
by  Samuel  A.  Green                                                              144 
Remarks,  in  communicating  a  paper  on  the  Genesis  of  the 
Massachusetts   Town  and  the  Origin  of  Town-Meeting 
Government,  by  Charles  Francis  Adams       172 
Letter  from  Abner  C.  Goodell,  Jr   211 
Remarks  by  Mellen  Chamberlain        214 
Remarks  by  Edward  Channing                                             242 
Diar}'  of  a  Journey  to  the  West  in  1836,  b}r  Lucian  Minor, 
communicated  by  Charles  E.  Norton       263 
Remarks  on  Copley's  Portrait  of  Paul  Revere,  by  George  B. 
Chase                                                                                          294 
 - 16 - 
CONTENTS.  IX 
FEBRUARY   MEETING,  1892. 
PAGE 
Remarks  on  a  Letter  from  Thomas  Adams,  by  R.   C.  Win- 
throp,  Jr                                                                                                     296 
Paper  on  The  Results  in  Europe  of  Cartier's  Explorations,  by 
Justin  Winsor                                                                    298 
Remarks  on  two  recent  Bequests  to  the  Societ}',  by  Samuel 
A.  Green                                                                                315 
Memoir  of  Samuel  C.  Cobb,  by  James  M.  Bugbee  ....     318 
MARCH   MEETING,  1892. 
Remarks  on  the  death  of  John  G.  Shea  and  George  W.  Cul- 
lum,  by  the  President                                                                331 
Report  on  the  Election  of  New  Members,  communicated  from 
the  Council                                                                                  332 
Remarks  on  the  Waters-Winthrop  Map,  by  Samuel  A.  Green     335 
Diaiy  of  Ezra  Stiles,  communicated  by  Edward  G.  Porter     339 
Remarks  by  Robert   C.  Winthrop,   with   personal   reminis- 
cences    345 
ANNUAL   MEETING,   APRIL,  1892. 
Letter  of  Francis  Parkman,  accompanying  a  gift  of  manu- 
scripts   348 
Paper  on  Leif  Ericson  and  the  Norse  Sagas,  by  Henry  W. 
Hatnes                                                                                      349 
Remarks,  in  communicating  some  extracts  from  unpublished 
letters  of  Jedidiah  Huntington  and  Joshua  Huntington, 
by  Roger  Wolcott                                                             354 
Remarks  on  the  formation  of  Boards  of  Selectmen,  by  Lucius 
R.  Paige                                                                                          361 
Remarks   on    Fitch's    Map   of  the   Northwest   Territory,  b}- 
Justin  Winsor                                                                         364 
 - 17 - 
X  CONTENTS. 
PAGE 
Report  of  the  Council                                                                                   366 
Report  of  the  Committee  on  the  Library  and  the  Cabinet    .     .  370 
Report  of  the  Librarian                                                                                 371 
Report  of  the  Cabinet-Keeper                                                              372 
Report  of  the  Treasurer                                                                             374 
Report  of  the  Auditing  Committee     .........  382 
Officers  Elected                                                                                                383 
MAY  MEETING,  1892. 
Diary  of  Eli  Forbes,  communicated  by  the  President     .     .     384 
Diary  of  Benjamin  Boardman,  communicated  bj^  Charles  J. 
Hoadly                                                                                  400 
Remarks    in  communicating   a  Letter   from  John   Tulle}T  by 
Samuel  A.  Green                                                                   414 
Remarks  on  the  Voyage  of  Capt.  Robert  Gray  in  the  Ship 
Columbia,  by  Edward  G.  Porter        416 
Remarks  on  the  death  of  Edward  A.  Freeman,  by  William 
Everett                                                                                       421 
Remarks  by  William  W.  Goodwin      424 
Memoir  of  Augustus   T.  Perkins,   by  William    H.    Whit- 
more                                                                                                                     426 
JUNE  MEETING,    1892. 
Remarks  on  the  Historical  Writings  of  Francis  Parkman,  by 
the  President                                                                                438 
Supplementary  Paper   on   the  Genesis  of  the  Massachusetts 
Town,  by  Charles  Francis  Adams      441 
Remarks  in  communicating  a  letter  of  Lieut.  John  Whiting, 
by  Samuel  F.  McCleary                                                    449 
Remarks  in  presenting  a  rare  copy  of  a  Sermon  by  Samuel 
Davies,  by  Samuel  A.  Green                                                454 
 - 18 - 
CONTENTS.  XI 
PAGE 
Remarks    in    presenting    a    letter    of   Robert    Johnson,   by 
Edward  J.  Young                                                                455 
Remarks    on    the    publication   of  the   Winthrop   Papers,  by 
R.  C.  Winthrop,  Jr                                                                             457 
List  of  Donors  to  the  Library                                                    467 
Index                                                                                                      471 
 - 19 - 
 - 20 - 
LIST  OP  ILLUSTRATIONS. 
PAGE 
Portrait  of  Charles  Deane         Frontispiece 
Section  of  the  Winthrop  Map         26 
Portrait  of  Thomas  Aspinwall        32 
Portrait  of  Francis  W.  Palfrey     39 
Portrait  of  Henry  M.  Dexter        90 
Portrait  of  Charles  Devens       104 
fac- simile  of  a  j>eed  by  governor  wlnthrop     .     .     .     .  139 
Portrait  of  Samuel  C.  Cobb        318 
Portrait  of  Augustus  T.  Perkins      .     ,               426 
[xiii] 
 - 21 - 
RESIDENT     MEMBERS, 
AT   THE   DATE    OP   THE   PK1NTING   OP    THIS   BOOK,   IN    THE    ORDER   OP 
THEIR   ELECTION. 
1839. 
Hon.  Robert  C.  Winthrop,  LL.D. 
1841. 
Rev.  George  E.  Ellis,  LL.D. 
1844. 
Rev.  Lucius  R.  Paige,  D.D. 
1848. 
Henry  Wheatland,  M.D. 
1852. 
Francis  Parkman,  LL.D. 
1857. 
Oliver  Wendell  Holmes,  D.C.L. 
1858. 
Hon.  Leverett  Saltonstall,  A.M. 
1859. 
Henry  W.  Torrey,  LL.D. 
Rev.  Robert  C.  Waterston,  A.M. 
1860. 
Hon.  Samuel  A.  Green,  M.D. 
Charles  Eliot  Norton,  LL.D. 
1861. 
Rev.  Edward  E.  Hale,  D.D. 
Rev.  Andrew  P.  Peabody,  D.D. 
Hon.  Horace  Gray,  LL.D. 
Rev.  Edwards  A.  Park,  LL.D. 
1863. 
William  H.  Whitmore,  A.M. 
1864. 
Hon.  WTilliam  C.  Endicott,  LL.D. 
Hon.  E.  Rockwood  Hoar,  LL.D. 
[xvi] 
1865. 
Josiah  P.  Quincy,  A.M. 
Samuel  Eliot,  LL.D. 
1866. 
Henry  G.  Denny,  A.M. 
1867. 
Charles  C.  Smith,  A.M. 
Hon.  George  S.  Hale,  A.M. 
1869. 
William  S.  Appleton,  A.M. 
Hon.  Theodore  Lyman,  S.B. 
1871. 
Abner  C.  Goodell,  Jr.,  A.M. 
Edward  D.  Harris,  Esq. 
1873. 
Hon.  Mellen  Chamberlain,  LL.D. 
Winslow  Warren,  LL.B. 
Charles  W.  Eliot,  LL.D. 
1875. 
Charles  F.  Dunbar,  LL.D. 
Charles  Francis  Adams,  A.B. 
William  P.  Upham,  A.B. 
1876. 
Fitch  Edward  Oliver,  M.D. 
William  Everett,  Litt.D. 
George  B.  Chase,  A.M. 
Hon.  Henry  Cabot  Lodge,  Ph.D. 
 - 22 - 
EESIDENT   MEMBERS.                             XV11 
1877. 
John  T.  Morse,  Jr.,  A.B. 
Justin  Winsor,  LL.D. 
J.  EUiot  Cabot,  LL.D. 
1878. 
Henry  Lee,  A.M. 
Gamaliel  Bradford,  A.B. 
Rev.  Edward  J.  Young,  D.D. 
Hon.  John  Lowell,  LL.D. 
Abbott  Lawrence,  A.M. 
1879. 
Rt.  Rev.  Phillips  Brooks,  D.D. 
William  W.  Greenough,  A.B. 
Robert  C.  Winthrop,  Jr.,  A.M. 
Henry  W.  Haynes,  A.M. 
1880. 
Thomas  W.  Higginson,  A.M. 
Rev.  Edward  G.  Porter,  A.M. 
John  C.  Ropes,  LL.B. 
1881. 
Rev.  Henry  F.  Jenks,  A.M. 
Horace  E.  Scudder,  A.M. 
Rev.  Edmund  F.  Slafter,  D.D. 
Stephen  Salisbury,  A.M. 
John  T.  Hassam,  A.M. 
Rev.  Alexander  McKenzie,  D.D. 
1882. 
Arthur  Lord,  A.B. 
Arthur  B.  Ellis,  LL.B. 
Clement  Hugh  Hill,  A.M. 
Frederick  W.  Putnam,  A.M. 
James  M.  Bugbee,  Esq. 
Hon.  John  D.  Washburn,  LL.B. 
Rev.  Egbert  C.  Smyth,  D.D. 
1883. 
Francis  A.  Walker,  LL.D. 
Rev.  Arthur  L.  Perry,  LL.D. 
1884. 
Hon.  John  E.  Sanford,  A.M. 
Uriel  H.  Crocker,  LL.B. 
Hon.  Martin  Brimmer,  A.B. 
Roger  Wolcott,  LL.B. 
William  G.  Russell,  LL.D. 
Edward  J.  Lowell,  A.M. 
Edward  Channing,  Ph.D. 
1885. 
Hon.  Lincoln  F.  Brigham,  LL.D. 
Edward  Bangs,  LL.B. 
1886. 
Samuel  F.  McCleary,  A.M. 
William  W.  Goodwin,  D.C.L. 
Hon.  George  F.  Hoar,  LL.D. 
Rev.  Alexander  V.  G.  Allen,  D.D. 
1887. 
Charles  G.  Loring,  A.M. 
Rev.  Octavius  B.  Frothingham,  A.M. 
Solomon  Lincoln,  A.M. 
Edwin  P.  Seaver,  A.M. 
1889. 
Albert  B.  Hart,  Ph.D. 
Thornton  K.  Lothrop,  LL.B. 
George  O.  Shattuck,  LL.B. 
James  B.  Thayer,  LL.B. 
Hon.  Henry  S.  Nourse,  A.M. 
1890. 
Henry  Fitz-Gilbert  Waters,  A.M. 
Edwin  Lassetter  Bynner,  LL.B. 
Hamilton  Andrews  Hill,  A.M. 
William  S.  Shurtleff,  A.M. 
Abbott  Lawrence  Lowell,  LL.B. 
1891. 
Benjamin  M.  Watson,  A.B. 
Rev.  Samuel  E.  Herrick,  D.D. 
Hon.  Oliver  W.  Holmes,  Jr.,  LL.D. 
Henry  P.  Walcott,  M.D. 
1892. 
John  Fiske,  A.M. 
George  S.  Merriam,  A.M. 
 - 23 - 
HONORARY   OR   CORRESPONDING 
MEMBERS, 
ELECTED   UNDER   THE    ORIGINAL   ACT    OF    INCORPORATION,    1794,    IN   THE   ORDER 
OF   THEIR   ELECTION. 
J.  Hammond  Trumbull,  LL.D.  |    
Rev.  William  S.  Southgate,  A.M. 
HONORARY   MEMBERS, 
ELECTED    SINCE    THE    PASSAGE    OF    THE    ACT    OF    1857. 
James  Anthony  Froude,  M.A. 
Rt.  Rev.  Lord  A.  C.  Ilervey,  D.D. 
David  Masson,  LL.D. 
S.A.R.  le  Comte  de  Paris. 
Rt.  Rev.  William  Stubbs,  D.D. 
Hon.  William  M.  Evarts,  LL.D. 
Theodor  Mommsen. 
[xviii] 
Marquis  de  Rochambeau. 
John  Robert  Seeley,  LL.D. 
William  E.  H.  Lecky,  LL.D. 
Very  Rev.  Charles  Merivale,  D.D. 
Ernst  Curtius. 
Hon.  Carl  Schurz,  LL.D. 
 - 24 - 
CORRESPONDING    MEMBERS, 
ELECTED    SINCE    THE    PASSAGE    OF    THE    ACT    OF    1857. 
Hon.  William  H.  Trescot. 
William  Noel  Sainsbury,  Esq. 
Goldwin  Smith,  D.C.L. 
George  Ticknor  Curtis,  A.B. 
Hon.  John  Meredith  Read,  A.M. 
Joseph  Jackson  Howard,  LL.D. 
Charles  J.  Stille,  LL.D. 
William  W.  Story,  D.C.L. 
M.  Jules  Marcou. 
M.  Pierre  Margry. 
Charles  J.  Hoadly,  LL.D. 
John  Foster  Kirk,  Esq. 
Hon.  Charles  H.  Bell,  LL.D. 
Rev.  Edward  D.  Neill,  D.D. 
Hon.  Manning  F.  Force,  LL.B. 
Sir  Bernard  Burke,  C.B.,  LL.D. 
Samuel  Rawson  Gardiner,  LL.D. 
Hon.  John  Bigelow,  LL.D. 
Henry  Charles  Lea,  LL  D. 
Hubert  H.  Bancroft,  A.M. 
Rev.  Richard  S.  Storrs,  LL.D. 
M.  Gustave  Vapereau. 
William  F.  Poole,  LL.D. 
John  Austin  Stevens,  A.B. 
Joseph  F.  Loubat,  LL.D. 
Charles  H.  Hart,  LL.B. 
Rev.  Moses  Coit  Tyler,  LL.D. 
Hermann  von  Hoist,  Ph.D. 
Franklin  B.  Dexter,  A.M. 
John  M.  Brown,  A.M. 
Hon.  Andrew  D.  White,  LL.D. 
George  W.  Ranck,  Esq. 
James  M.  Le  Moine,'  Esq. 
Rt.  Hon.  Sir  George  O.  Trevelyan, 
Bart.,  D.C.L. 
Henry  Adams,  A.B. 
Julius  Dexter,  A.B. 
Rev.  Henry  M.  Baird,  D.D. 
Hon.  William  Wirt  Henry. 
Vicomte  d'Haussonville. 
James  Bryce,  D.C.L. 
Rev.  Charles  R.  W^eld,  B.D. 
Herbert  B.  Adams,  Ph.D. 
Signor  Cornelio  Desimoni. 
Hon.  Jabez  L.  M.  Curry,  LL.D. 
Amos  Perry,  A.M. 
Horatio  Hale,  A.M. 
Hon.  William  A.  Courtenay. 
Rt.  Rev.  Mandell  Creighton,  LL.D. 
John  Andrew  Doyle,  M.A. 
Abbe   Henry   Raymond   Casgrain, 
Litt.D. 
Alexander  Brown,  Esq. 
[xix] 
 - 25 - 
MEMBERS     DECEASED. 
Members  who  have  died  since  the  last  volume  of  the  Proceedings  was   issued,   Oct.  1, 
1891,  arranged  in  the  order  of  their  election,  and  with  date  of  death. 
Honorary  or   Corresponding. 
John  Gilmary  Shea,  LL.D                                                       Feb.  22,  1892. 
Honorary, 
Edward  A.  Freeman,  D.C.L                                                    March  16,  1892. 
Corresponding. 
George  H.  Moore,  LL.D                                                         May     5,1892. 
Benjamin  Scott,  Esq                                                                   Jan.    18,  1892. 
Kev.  Thomas  Hill,  LL.D                                                       Nov.  21,  1891. 
George  William  Curtis,  LL.D    Aug.  31,  1892. 
Rev.  E.  Edwards  Beardsley,  D.D   -■-.     .  Dec.  21,  1891. 
Gen.  George  W.  Cullum,  U.  S.  A    Feb.  28,  1892. 
[xx] 
 - 26 - 
PROCEEDINGS 
OF   THE 
MASSACHUSETTS    HISTORICAL    SOCIETY. 
OCTOBER  MEETING,    1891. 
THE  stated  meeting,  the  first  since  the  summer  vacation, 
was  held  on  Thursday,  the  8th  instant,  at  three  o'clock, 
p.m.  ;  the  President,  Dr.  George  E.  Ellis,  in  the  chair. 
The  record  of  the  June  Meeting  was  read  by  the  Recording 
Secretary,  Rev.  Dr.  Edward  J.  Young,  and  was  approved. 
The  President  then  addressed  the  Society  as  follows:  — 
On  resuming  our  meetings  we  welcome  to  his  place  among 
us  again  our  Corresponding  Secretary,  Librarian  Winsor,  re- 
turned from  his  foreign  tour  for  recuperation  and  historical 
research.  We  have  had  reminders  during  his  absence  of  his 
diligence,  and  of  some  of  its  results  in  the  pursuit  of  his  favor- 
ite studies.     We  may  hope  for  further  fruits  from  it. 
The  event  of  most  serious  interest  to  us  as  a  Society  is  that 
which  in  the  death  of  James  Russell  Lowell  took  from  our 
roll  the  name  of  one  of  our  most  honored  and  distinguished 
associates  ;  of  high  endowments,  of  varied  accomplishments,  of 
genius  alike  in  prose  and  poetry  in  his  literary  work  ;  who  gave 
to  his  country  at  home  and  in  diplomatic  service  abroad  the 
devotion  of  his  splendid  qualities  of  mind  and  character,  and 
whose  fame,  now  widely  extended,  is  to  be  permanent.  We 
can  but  add  our  tribute  to  those  which  with  such  warmth  of 
appreciation  and  regard,  beginning  with  those  nearest  to  him 
in  life,  have  extended  through  our  own  country,  and  with 
affection  and  respect  been  repeated  with  stress  of  eulogy  from 
the  highest  ranges  of  life  in  Europe. 
During  the  nearly  thirty  years  of  his  membership  of  this  So- 
ciety, Mr.  Lowell,  while  in  the  country,  felt  the  highest  inter- 
l 
 - 27 - 
MASSACHUSETTS   HISTOEICAL  SOCIETY.  [Oct, 
est  in  its  purposes  and  work,  following  his  revered  father  in 
his  lengthened  term  of  years  in  its  service.  Our  late  associate 
was  put  upon  the  Publishing  Committee  for  editing  the  Jour- 
nal of  
Judge  Sewall.  Had  not  his  diplomatic  missions  taken 
him  abroad,  he  would  have  given  a  most  zealous  interest  to 
the  work.  With  his  characteristic  appreciation  and  taste,  he 
regarded  the  faithful  and  communicative  pages  of  that  signal 
Puritan  magnate  as  one  of  the  most  precious  of  all  our  historic 
treasures  in  manuscript  or  in  print.  He  watched  the  progress 
of  the  work  through  the  press,  in  the  galley  proofs  which  I  sent 
to  him,  with  critical  care.  He  was  most  concerned  that  what 
Sewall  wrote  should  be  printed  as  he  wrote  it,  preserving 
especially  all  the  archaisms  of  language.  When  I  had  the 
satisfaction  of  sending  to  him  in  London  the  three  substantial 
volumes,  on  which  five  years  of  editorial  labor  had  been  spent, 
he  wrote  from  the  legation,  5th  of  June,  1882  :  "  I  have  this 
morning  received  the  three  handsome  volumes  of  Sewall,  and 
beg  you  to  accept  my  most  sincere  thanks.  Is  there  anything 
I  can  do  for  you  here,  if  my  Irish  fellow-citizens  let  me  stay  a 
little  longer?  I  have  peeped  into  Sewall,  and  foresee  a  very 
great  pleasure.  It  is  redolent,  as  Gray  would  say,  of  New 
England;  and  I  am  rather  fond  of  New  England,  between  our- 
selves. I  
have  no  doubt  of  its  having  been  thoroughly  edited, 
and  regret  nothing  more  than  that  I  should  have  lost  the 
chance  of  helping."  Many  of  us  will  recall  an  impressive  oc- 
casion in  
this  hall,  when  Mr.  Lowell,  having  returned  with 
honors  from  his  English  mission,  addressed  us  as  we  were 
then,  after  his  decease,  expressing  our  estimate  of  the  char- 
acter and  career  of  our  associate,  Charles  Francis  Adams,  to 
whom,  because  of  the  critical  times,  and  his  own  special  and 
conspicuous  abilities  to  meet  them,  it  fell  to  render  to  his 
country  a  service  unsurpassed  in  value  and  influence  by  the 
official  work  of  any  one  of  our  diplomatists  in  England  for  the 
century,  not  even  excepting  that  of  his  own  grandfather  and 
father.  Mr.  Lowell  then  made  us  realize  anew  how  exacting 
and  how  complete  and  triumphant  was  Mr.  Adams's  devotion 
to  his  imperilled  country. 
Deeply  is  it  to  be  regretted  that  his  engrossing  occupations 
precluded  that  Mr.  Lowell  should  have  fulfilled  the  trust 
committed  to  and  accepted  by  him  of  giving  to  our  Proceed- 
ings a  memoir  of  Mr.  Longfellow. 
 - 28 - 
1891.]  REMARKS   BY   MR.    C.  F.  ADAMS.  3 
We  can  but  enter  on  our  records  our  own  exalted  estimate 
of  our  late  associate,  with  our  sorrow  that  he  is  lost  to  us. 
At  the  close  of  his  remarks  the  President  said  that,  in  ac- 
cordance with  a  recommendation  of  the  Council  at  the  last 
Annual  Meeting,  no  arrangements  had  been  made  for  the  de- 
livery of  
formal  addresses  on  the  death  of  Mr.  Lowell,  but  the 
Society  would  be  glad  to  hear  from  any  member  ;  and  he  called 
on  Mr.  Charles  Francis  Adams. 
In  response  to  this  call,  Mr.  Adams  spoke  in  substance  as 
follows  :  — 
No  member  of  the  Society,  Mr.  President,  concurs  more 
fully  than  I  in  the  propriety  of  the  rule  or  understanding, 
whichever  you  may  see  fit  to  call  it,  which  tends  to  bring 
within  more  reasonable  limits  than  those  which  have  heretofore 
obtained  the  eulogistic  notices  which  during  recent  years 
have  attended  the  announcement  of  the  death  of  our  mem- 
bers ;  
but  some  occasions  transcend  all  rule.  From  time  to 
time  one  of  our  members  passes  away  of  such  eminence,  or  so 
closely  associated  with  the  Society  or  with  its  work,  that  some- 
thing more  is  fitting  at  the  moment  than  a  mere  announcement 
of  his  death.     Such  was  the  case  with  Russell  Lowell. 
Nevertheless,  though  called  upon  by  you  in  a  way  which 
prevents  my  observing  silence,  I  cannot  but  feel  I  am  not  the 
person  to  speak  the  fitting  word  on  this  occasion.  My  rela- 
tions with  Mr.  Lowell,  though  pleasant  to  look  back  upon, 
were  never  close.  He  w^as  an  older  man  than  I, —  a  man, 
indeed,  of  another  generation.  He  was  in  college  in  the  days 
of  President  Quincy,  wdiile  Jackson  and  Van  Buren  were  con- 
suls. Nearly  twenty  years,  therefore,  passed  away,  covering 
the  close  of  Quincy's  long  administration  and  the  whole  of  the 
administrations  of  Everett  and  Sparks,  between  Lowell's  grad- 
uation and  my  own.  Eighteen  years,  as  we  all  know,  constitute 
in  early  life  an  interval  between  college  men  only  overcome  at 
a  much  later  period  ;  and  I  was  yet  a  mere  boy  when  I  first 
heard  of  Lowell  in  connection  with  his  still  famous  "  Biglow 
Papers."  He  was  then  the  young  poet  of  the  political  party  to 
which  my  father  belonged,  —  that  party  in  the  early  failures 
of  which  I  took  a  youthful  but  eager  interest.  Yet  I  do  not 
remember  ever  having  seen  or  met  the  already  widely  known 
satirist  until  after   my  graduation   in  1856  ;  
for,  during  my 
 - 29 - 
4  MASSACHUSETTS   HISTORICAL  SOCIETY.  [Oct. 
course  at  Harvard,  Longfellow  still  held  the  professorship,  nor 
did  his  successor  enter  upon  its  duties  until  the  class  to  which 
I  belong  had  passed  out  through  the  college  gate. 
Subsequently,  though  I  often  met  him  both  in  company 
and  at  his  own  house,  our,  paths  so  diverged  that  we  were 
never  brought  into  that  close  contact  which  enables  one  man 
to  pass  upon  another  with  the  confidence  of  personal  knowl- 
edge. I  
can  therefore  speak  of  him  in  no  such  way  as  he 
will  presently  be  spoken  of,  I  hope,  by  his  life-long  and  own 
familiar  friend,  Judge  Hoar.     I  was  but  an  acquaintance. 
Nevertheless,  in  Lowell's  life  there  was  one  feature  which  I 
have  not  seen  referred  to  in  the  obituary  notices,  but  which 
strikes  me  as  noticeable  and  singularlv  felicitous.  I  refer  to 
the  fact  that  its  closing  years  so  symmetrically  rounded  out  its 
commencement.  There  was  a  period,  I  remember,  —  that 
immediately  succeeding  the  close  of  the  War  of  the  Rebellion, 
—  when  Lowell  passed  through  a  stage  of  mental  depression. 
He  was  then  a  man  approaching  fifty,  and  it  seemed  as  though 
he  had  lived  his  life,  —  as  though  in  its  earlier  period  it  had 
been  one  of  singular  brilliancy  and  promise,  and  he  had  then 
done  that  which  in  subsequent  years  he  had  failed  greatly  to 
improve  upon.  In  one  sense  his  career  had  been,  while  in 
another  it  had  failed  to  be,  a  sequence.  At  thirty-six  he  had 
been  appointed  to  succeed  Longfellow,  and  twelve  years  later, 
with  no  more  years  to  spare,  he  could  not  but  feel  himself  to 
a  certain  degree,  so  to  speak,  upon  the  shelf.  The  novelty  of 
his  work  as  professor  had  worn  itself  away,  and  the  future 
seemed  to  contain  nothing  more  for  him,  —  if  I  may  use  such 
an  expression  here  and  in  this  connection,  he  was  apparently 
side-tracked  ;  or,  as  he  himself,  if  my  memory  serves  me  right, 
more  happily  expressed  it  to  a  female  friend  of  his  and  mine, 
—  he  was  "  a  poor  gentleman,"  and  likely  to  be  nothing  more 
during  what  remained  of  life.  Then  it  was  that,  suddenly  and 
most  unexpectedly  to  himself,  the  whole  aspect  of  his  future  un- 
derwent sudden  and  pleasing  change.  One  da,y  Lowell  found 
himself  nominated  by  President  Hayes  for  the  mission  to 
Vienna,  which  shortly  afterward  was  changed,  most  agree- 
ably to  
himself,  for  that  to  Spain.  Going  to  Madrid  in  1877, 
in  1880  he  was  transferred  to  the  Court  of  St.  James,  in  the 
hope,  scarcely  concealed  at  Washington,  that  he  would  restore 
the  legation  there  to  the  high  standard  which  it  had  been 
 - 30 - 
1891.]  REMARKS   BY   THE   HON.  E.  R.  HOAR.  5 
wont  to  hold.  Both  at  Madrid  and  in  London,  Russell  Lowell 
was  in  his  element.  At  Madrid,  a  worthy  successor  to  Irv- 
ing ;  
in  London,  though  no  international  difference  arose 
which  called  for  the  anxious  exercise  of  diplomatic  qualities, 
through  his  literary  tastes  and  that  peculiar  class  of  oratory 
which  is  so  highly  esteemed  in  England,  he  ingratiated  him- 
self more  fully  with  that  which  is  best  and  most  desirable  in 
English  social  life  than  any  American  minister  who  ever  there 
represented  the  country. 
This  official  period,  so  grateful  to  him,  lasted  for  eight  years; 
and  then  Lowell  retired  from  it  in  the  full  enjoyment  of  suc- 
cess. Coming  back  to  America,  it  was  given  him  to  have  yet 
four  years  of  what  may  be  called  life's  October  days,  —  days 
when  the  man's  work  is  done  and  his  harvest  garnered,  while 
the  sun,  yet  well  above  the  horizon,  sheds  on  him  a  kindly 
warmth  from  amid  an  atmosphere  rich  and  full  of  enjoyment. 
He  was  not  called  upon  to  face  the  chill  December.  Thus 
Lowell,  as  the  last  years  crept  on  him  in  the  home  of  his 
youth,  and  he  looked  back  over  the  life  in  Cambridge  and  saw 
it  burgeon  at  exactly  the  right  moment  into  the  career  at 
Madrid  and  St.  James,  might  have  cried  out  with  Browning, 
his  brother  poet,  — 
"  the  chalice  raising, 
*  
Others  give  best  at  first,  but  Thou 
Forever  set'st  our  table  praising,  — 
Keep'st  the  good  wine  till  now.'  " 
A  single  word  more.  Though  for  twenty-eight  years  a 
member  of  this  Society,  Lowell  never  devoted  himself  to  his- 
torical pursuits  ;  yet  I  believe  it  will  be  conceded  that  no  one 
among  us  all  had  such  a  nice  and  subtle  appreciation  as  he  of 
the  lights  and  shadows  of  New  England  life,  or  the  varied 
phases  of  New  England  character  ;  and  the  work  which  he 
did  in  this  connection,  judged  from  the  historical  point  of 
view,  cannot  but  make  us  all  regret  that  he  did  not  more 
especially  devote  himself  to  that  field  of  literature  and  research 
which  is  our  Society's  peculiar  province.  The  little  he  did  in 
it  no  other  has  in  its  kind  excelled. 
Hon.  E.  R.  Hoar  then  said  :  — 
My  relations  with  James  Russell  Lowell,  extending  over  a 
period  of  more  than  fifty  years,  are  too  tender  and  personal 
 - 31 - 
6  MASSACHUSETTS   HISTORICAL   SOCIETY.  [Oct. 
for  public  expression  ;  yet  I  could  not  be  present  where  his 
memory  is  honored  without  wishing  to  add  my  little  leaf  to 
the  wreath  of  his  fame. 
What  Mr.  Adams  has  so  well  said  is  probably  all  that  this 
occasion  requires  to  be  said  of  his  career  in  public  life. 
As  we  think  of  his  intellectual  wealth  and  accomplishments, 
the  unequalled  store  of  varied  knowledge  which  losing  him 
has  taken  from  us,  we  feel  as  if  some  large  and  full-freighted 
ship  had  sunk  in  the  ocean,  or  a  granary  had  been  swept  away 
by  a  flood.  But  of  my  own  loss  of  the  friend  and  companion 
who  always  had  the  breath  of  the  morning  with  him  and 
never  grew  old,  I  can  think  of  nothing  more  fitting  for  me  to 
say  than  to  quote  the  exquisite  sentence  from  Emily  Dickin- 
son's letter  which  I  read  this  morning  :  "  I  had  a  friend  who 
taught  me  Immortality  ;  
but  venturing  too  near  himself,  he 
never  returned." 
Mr.  Horace  E.  Scudder  spoke  briefly  of  Mr.  Lowell's 
exact  scholarship,  and  the  readiness  with  which  he  gave  freely 
of  his  own  mind  to  others  ;  not  reserving  his  best  thought  for 
formal  expression,  but  giving  spontaneously  and  generously  in 
conversation  and  private  letters.  As  editor  of  the  u  Atlantic 
Monthly,"  he  was  eager  to  recognize  the  work  of  others,  and 
took  the  greatest  pains  to  perfect  it,  wherever  he  could  do  so 
b}^  criticism  and  advice.  In  this  inconspicuous  way  he  showed 
his  own  fine  taste  to  the  advantage  of  others,  and  in  the  short 
period  of  his  editorship  made  a  marked  impression  upon  peri- 
odical literature  in  America,  by  giving  a  signal  illustration  of 
how  a  magazine  could  have  a  dignity  and  force  impossible  to 
a  mere  miscellany. 
The  Society  then  expressed  their  tribute  of  respect  for  Mr. 
Lowell,  and  their  sorrow  for  his  loss,  by  rising. 
Mr.  Adams  was  appointed  to  write  the  memoir  of  Edmund 
Quincy,  and  Mr.  Scudder  the  memoir  of  Henry  W.  Longfellow, 
which  had  been  previously  assigned  to  Mr.  Lowell.  The  ap- 
pointment for a  memoir  of  Mr.  Lowell  himself  was  deferred  to 
the  next  meeting. 
The  acceptances  of  Dr.  Henry  P.  Walcott,  who  had  been 
elected  a  Resident  Member,  and  of  the  Abb^  H.  R.  Cas- 
grain,  who  had  been  elected  a  Corresponding  Member,  were 
announced. 
 - 32 - 
1891. J  HORACE   WALPOLE   ON   AMERICA.  7 
Communications  having  been  called  for,  Mr.  R.  0.  Win- 
THROP,  Jr.,  said  :  — 
I  am  empowered  by  the  Hon.  Robert  C.  Winthrop  to  read  a 
paper  on  his  behalf,  and  I  
desire  to  preface  it  with  a  few  words  of 
explanation.  Many  of  you  are  doubtless  aware  that  my  father's 
entrance  upon  his  eighty-third  year  in  May  last  was  accom- 
panied by  
an  irregular  action  of  the  heart  which  excited  grave 
uneasiness.  It  did  not  confine  him  to  the  house  or  prevent 
him  from  moving  to  Brookline,  as  usual,  for  the  summer,  but 
it  resulted  in  a  physical  debility  which  obliged  him  to  relin- 
quish his  
accustomed  occupations.  At  all  periods  of  life,  how- 
ever, the  manifestations  of  the  human  heart  are  rarely  to  be 
predicted  with  any  certainty  ;  and  it  so  happened  that  as  the 
summer  advanced,  these  alarming  symptoms  gradually  ceased, 
and  my  father's  strength  revived.  He  is  far  from  having  re- 
gained his  former  activity,  and  was  prevented  from  going  to 
New  York  last  week  to  preside  over  the  annual  meeting  of 
the  Southern  Education  Trustees  ;  
but  he  is  now  able  to  en- 
joy the  society  of  his  friends  and  to  occupy  himself  in  some 
degree  with  congenial  pursuits.  It  accordingly  occurred  to 
him  to  prepare  a  short  paper  for  our  opening  meeting  after 
the  summer  vacation,  by  way  of  showing  that  the  infirmities 
of  age  had  not  weakened  his  interest  in  this  Society  and  in  the 
cause  of  historical  literature.  If  anything  could  add  to  his 
disappointment  at  not  feeling  quite  able  to  come  here  and 
read  it  in  person,  it  will  be  when  I  tell  him  that  his  valued 
friend,  our  still  more  venerable  associate,  the  Rev.  Dr.  Paige, 
now,  I  think,  in  his  ninetieth  year,  was  here  this  after- 
noon in  
that  accustomed  seat  from  which  he  was  missed  last 
spring.  The  regularity  of  Dr.  Paige's  attendance  at  our 
monthly  meetings  for  nearly  half  a  century  constitutes  not  the 
least  of  his  many  claims  to  our  regard  ;  and  I  am  sure  we  all 
unite  in  the  hope  that  for  a  considerable  time  to  come  he 
may  be  permitted  to  make  light  of  a  staircase  the  height  of 
which  inspires  so  many  much  younger  members  with  real  or 
imaginary  terror. 
The  Hon.  R.  C.  Winthrop's  paper  is  as  follows  :  — 
Horace  Walpole  on  America. 
The  letters  of  Horace  Walpole  contain  many  allusions  to 
our  country   during   its   Revolutionary  struggle.      In   one  of 
 - 33 - 
8  MASSACHUSETTS   HISTORICAL  SOCIETY.  [Oct. 
them  he  says  to  Sir  Horace  Mann,  on  the  7th  of  September, 
1775  :  "  I  most  heartily  wish  success  to  the  Americans.  They 
have  hitherto  made  not  one  blunder,  and  the  Administration 
have  made  a  thousand,  —  besides  the  two  capital  ones  of  first 
provoking,  and  then  of  uniting,  the  Colonies."  In  another 
letter,  at  the  end  of  1777,  he  says  :  "  We  have  been  horribly 
the  aggressors  ;  and  I  must  rejoice  that  the  Americans  are  to 
be  free,  as  they  had  a  right  to  be,  and  as  I  am  sure  they  have 
shown  that  they  deserve  to  be."  In  a  third  letter,  written  to 
Mann  and  Lady  Ossory,  in  1783,  he  says:  "Peace  is  arrived. 
I  cannot  express  how  glad  I  am.  I  care  not  a  straw  what  the 
terms  are.  .  .  .  My  first  wish  was  to  have  peace,  and  the  next 
to  see  America  secure  of  its  liberty.  Whether  it  will  make 
good  use  of  it,  is  another  point.  It  has  an  opportunity  that 
never  occurred  in  the  world  before,  of  being  able  to  select  the 
best  parts  of  every  known  Constitution  ;  
but  I  suppose  it  will 
not,  as  too  prejudiced  against  Ro)  alty  to  adopt  it,  even  as  a 
corrective  of  Aristocracy  and  Democracy." 
In  a  previous  letter,  of  July,  1776,  he  had  said:  "This 
little  island  [England]  will  be  ridiculously  proud  some 
ages  hence  of  its  former  brave  days,  and  swear  its  capital 
[London]  was  once  as  big  again  as  Paris,  or  —  what  is  to  be 
the  name  of  the  city  that  will  then  give  laws  to  Europe  ? — 
Perhaps  New  York  or  Philadelphia."  These  passages  will 
sufficiently  show  Walpole's  strong  sympathy  with  the  Ameri- 
can Revolution,  and  his  prognostications  of  the  future  great- 
ness of  
our  country. 
But  not  long  before,  in  a  letter  to  Sir  Horace  Mann,  24th 
November,  1774,  he  makes  this  remarkable  prediction  :  u  The 
next  Augustan  Age  will  dawn  on  the  other  side  of  the 
Atlantic.  There  will,  perhaps,  be  a  Thucydides  at  Boston,  a 
Xenophon  at  New  York,  and,  in  time,  a  Virgil  at  Mexico  and 
a  Newton  at  Peru  "  ! 
It  is  nearly  a  hundred  and  seventeen  years  since  this  passage 
came  from  the  pen  of  Horace  Walpole.  Mexico,  meantime, 
has  certainly  not  done  much  in  the  way  of  producing  a  Virgil, 
and  Peru  has  done  still  less  toward  the  reproduction  of  a 
Newton.  But  how  about  Boston  and  New  York  ?  Or,  rather, 
how  about  the  Augustan  Age  where  Walpole  predicted  it  was 
next  to  dawn  ?  Let  Washington  Irving  and  Ticknor  and 
Prescott  and  Bancroft  and  Motley  and  Parkman  answer  for 
 - 34 - 
1891.]  HORACE   WALPOLE   ON   AMERICA.  9 
the  historians.  Let  Bryant  and  Emerson  and  Longfellow  and 
Whittier  and  Holmes  and  Lowell  and  Poe  and  Parsons  and 
others  I  might  name,  answer  for  the  poets.  Brockden  Brown, 
Fenimore  Cooper,  and  Hawthorne  may  respond  for  the  nov- 
elists ;  
Webster  and  Everett,  and  a  host  of  others,  for  the 
orators  ;  while,  though  there  has  been  no  Sir  Isaac  Newton, 
philosophy,  mathematics,  and  science,  to  say  nothing  of  in- 
vention or  of  the  fine  arts,  have  had  American  votaries  within 
the  same  period,  whose  names  might  well  be  classed  with 
those  more  peculiarly  associated  with  American  literature. 
Longfellow's  bust  is  already  in  Westminster  Abbey.  Emer- 
son has  been  said  by  Matthew  Arnold  —  whether  justly  or  un- 
justly—  to  have  written  "  the  most  important  prose  of  the 
century."  Queen  Victoria  herself,  within  a  few  months  past, 
has  sent  to  our  President  a  message  of  sympathy  and  sorrow 
on  the  death  of  James  Russell  Lowell;  and  a  service  in  mem- 
ory of  him  has  been  held  in  Westminster  Abbey.  Walpole 
might  well  have  considered  these  as  no  slight  confirmations  of 
his  prophecy. 
But  the  names  which  have  been  mentioned  are,  with  but 
three  or  four  exceptions,  the  names  of  the  dead  ;  and  for  those 
three  or  four  little  or  nothing  of  life  or  life-work  remains. 
Has  then  the  Augustan  Age  on  this  side  of  the  Atlantic  not 
only  "dawned"  but  passed. away,  without  due  recognition  at 
home  or  abroad  ?  Can  another  be  soon  looked  for  more  worthy 
of  recognition,  and  which  may  be  more  justly  considered  as 
the  fulfilment  of  Horace  Walpole's  prophecy  ? 
Meantime  Massachusetts  may  justly  be  proud  that  if  an 
Augustan  Age  has  really  come  on  this  side  of  the  Atlantic, 
and  almost  gone,  her  own  contributions  to  it  have  been  so 
notable.  Of  the  most  eminent  literary  celebrities  who  have 
been  named,  with  the  exception  of  Cooper  and  Irving,  the 
birthplace  was  in  New  England.  Most  of  them  were  born  in 
Massachusetts,  though  only  two  or  three  of  them,  I  believe, 
in  Boston.  But  neither  our  city  or  State,  nor  our  country  at 
large,  has  yet  exhibited  any  disposition  to  signalize  this  mem- 
orable period  or  those  who  have  made  it  so  memorable.  Our 
statues  and  monuments  have  thus  far  been  reserved  for  heroes 
and  statesmen.  Is  there  no  marble  in  the  quarries,  no  bronze 
at  the  foundries,  for  our  literary  celebrities  ?  The  Memorial 
Hall  at  Cambridge  is  doing  something  in  this  line.     A  special 
2 
 - 35 - 
10  MASSACHUSETTS  HISTORICAL  SOCIETY.  [Oct. 
wing  of  the  Boston  Art  Museum  might  be  appropriated  for 
Massachusetts  or  New  England  Worthies.  But  somewhere  or 
somehow  Horace  Walpole's  Augustan  Age  on  this  side  of  the 
Atlantic  should  not  fail  to  be  commemorated.  Walpole  spoke 
only  of  Boston  and  New  York,  and  thus  no  reference  has 
been  made  to  other  parts  of  our  country.  But  there  are 
writers  of  Virginia  and  Maryland,  the  Carolinas  and  other 
States,  who  justly  claim  recognition  ;  and  should  there  not  be 
a  national  gallery  at  Washington,  spacious  enough  for  the  emi- 
nent men,  literary  as  well  as  military  or  political,  of  all  parts 
of  the  Union  ? 
The  Hon.  Mellen  Chamberlain  then  spoke  briefly  of  the 
Liberal  principles  of  Horace  Walpole,  and  of  the  sources  from 
which  they  were  derived,  and  referred  at  some  length  to  the 
interest  which  Sir  Robert  Walpole  took  in  colonial  affairs. 
On  motion  of  the  Treasurer,  it  was 
Voted,  That  the  income  of  the  Massachusetts  Historical 
Trust  Fund  for  the  current  year  be  placed  to  the  credit  of  the 
Committee  charged  with  publishing  the  volume  of  Belknap 
Papers. 
A  new  volume  of  the  Proceedings  was  announced  as  ready 
for  delivery.  It  comprises  the  proceedings  at  eleven  stated 
meetings,  from  May,  1890,  to  June,  1891,  both  inclusive,  and 
also  the  addresses  at  the  centennial  commemoration  of  the 
organization  of  the  Society. 
 - 36 - 
1891.]  REMARKS   BY  MR.   R.   C.   WINTHROP,   JR.  11 
NOVEMBER   MEETING,  1891. 
The  stated  meeting  was  held  on  Thursday,  the  12th  in- 
stant, at  
three  o'clock,  p.  M.  ;  the  President,  Dr.  George  E. 
Ellis,  in  the  chair. 
The  record  of  the  October  meeting  was  read,  and  also  the 
list  of  donors  to  the  Library  during  the  last  two  months. 
Mr.  Abbott  Lawrence  Lowell  was  appointed  to  write  a 
memoir  of  James  Russell  Lowell  for  the  Proceedings. 
The  President  read  several  letters  which  had  been  ad- 
dressed to  
him  in  his  official  capacity.  Among  them  was  a 
letter  from  William  P.  Boyd,  of  Conesus,  Livingston  County, 
New  York,  describing  the  burial-place  of  Daniel  Shays ; 1 
and  one  from  Edward  W.  Lincoln,  son  of  the  late  Governor 
Lincoln,  reserving  the  right  to  have  copies  made  of  the  cor- 
respondence of  
his  father  heretofore  given  to  the  Society. 
Communications  from  the  third  section  having  been  called 
for,  Mr.  R.  C.  Winthrop,  Jr.,  said  :  — 
I  desire  briefly  to  communicate  a  letter  —  which  I  do  not 
intend  to  read,  as  I  take  it  for  granted  it  will  be  printed  — 
written  from  the  island  of  Teneriffe,  in  1645,  by  a  young  man 
of  eighteen  who  had  just  left  Harvard  College  without  taking 
a  degree  in  order  to  seek  his  fortune  in  foreign  countries,  his 
father  having  experienced  pecuniary  reverses.  He  availed 
himself  of  an  opportunity  of  sailing  from  Boston  to  Teneriffe, 
intending  thence  to  proceed  to  England  ;  but  finding  unex- 
pected employment  in  the  counting-room  of  an  English  mer- 
chant, he  decided  to  make  some  stay  in  that  island,  and 
forthwith  proceeded  to  write  a  long  letter  to  his  father, 
describing  his  arrival  and  change  of  plan.  All  this  would 
call  for  no  remark,  were  it  not  that,  with  the  exception  of  the 
address,  the  whole  letter  is  in  Latin,  —  a  somewhat  mediaeval 
Latin,  it  is  true,  but  by  no  means  bad,  all  things  considered  ; 
while  the  penmanship  is  unusually  clear  and  even  elegant. 
It  has  never  been  an  uncommon  thing  for  young  men  to  sail 
1  See  Proceedings,  vol.  viii.  p.  257. 
 - 37 - 
12  MASSACHUSETTS   HISTORICAL  SOCIETY.  [Nov. 
for  Europe  on  leaving  Harvard,  —  in  our  day  they  go  by 
scores,  —  but  during  the  two  centuries  and  a  half  of  the 
existence  of  the  College  I  imagine  there  have  been  few 
instances  where  a  student  on  his  travels  has  availed  himself 
of  his  first  stopping-place  to  write  his  father  at  length  in  a 
dead  language.  Nor  is  it  likely  that  a  stranger  arriving  in 
TenerifTe  in  the  year  1645  would  have  had  easy  access  to  a 
Latin  grammar  or  dictionary  ;  and  we  may  fairly  assume  this 
composition  to  have  been  the  result  of  instruction  previously 
received  in  Boston  or  at  Harvard,  the  writer  having  been 
brought  to  New  England  when  he  was  three  years  old.  The 
letter  therefore  affords  us  a  glimpse  of  the  scholarship  attain- 
able by  
young  men  of  eighteen  in  the  Massachusetts  Colony 
at  that  very  early  period  ;  and  it  shows,  I  think,  that  the  au- 
thorities of  
the  infant  College  knew  how  to  imbue  their  pupils 
with  a  taste  for  the  classics,  —  and  this  without  prejudice  to 
modern  tongues,  as  in  the  same  letter  the  writer  expresses  an 
earnest  wish  to  perfect  himself  in  Spanish.  For  these  reasons 
it  seems  to  me  quite  worth  printing  ;  but  I  do  not  forget  that 
in  recent  years  some  distinguished  members  of  this  Society 
have  been  credited  with  a  disposition  to  depreciate,  if  not  to 
deride,  the  advantages  of  devoting  much  time  to  Greek  or 
Latin,  and  for  their  benefit  I  have  been  careful  to  append  a 
translation. 
I  may  add  that  the  writer  of  the  letter  was  Governor  Win- 
throp's  youngest  son  Samuel,  who  subsequently  became  a 
planter  in  the  West  Indies  and  was  for  several  years  Deputy- 
Governor  of  the  island  of  Antigua,  where  he  displayed  great 
bravery  at  the  time  of  a  French  invasion,  and  where  he  died, 
in  the  prime  of  life,  in  1674,  having,  through  his  intimacy 
with  the  celebrated  George  Fox,  become  a  Quaker.  Many 
years  ago,  when  Mr.  Smith  and  I  edited  the  fourth  volume  of 
this  Society's  selections  from  the  Winthrop  Papers,  we  printed 
twenty-four  letters  from  this  Samuel  to  his  family  in  New 
England,  written  between  1646  and  1673.  They  excited  some 
interest  at  the  time,  both  from  the  agreeable  impression  they 
gave  of  the  man  and  from  the  additional  light  they  threw 
upon  West  Indian  history  ;  
but  they  were  all  in  English.  We 
knew  of  the  existence  of  this  earlier  letter  in  Latin,  but  we 
were  unable  to  print  it,  as  my  father  had  mislaid  it.  It  has 
since  come  to  light,  which  is  the  reason  I  now  make  it  the 
subject  of  a  separate  communication. 
 - 38 - 
1891.]  LETTER   OF   SAMUEL   WINTHROP.  13 
I  desire  further  to  communicate  from  the  same  source  a 
fragment  of  a  letter  in  an  unknown  hand  and  without  sig- 
nature, but  dated  at  Barbadoes,  Feb.  1,  1674-5,  and  appar- 
ently addressed  to  Gov.  John  Winthrop  of  Connecticut  by 
some  friend  or  relative  of  his  who  had  sailed  from  New 
London  to  Barbadoes  with  a  cargo  of  horses  and  provisions, 
intending  to  proceed  thence  to  England  with  a  cargo  of  sugar. 
It  contains  particulars  and  considerations  with  regard  to  the 
trade  then  existing  between  the  West  Indies  and  New  Eng- 
land which  seem  to  me  well  worth  printing. 
SAMUEL  WINTHROP  TO  HIS  FATHER. 
To  his  honored  Father  John  Winthrop  Esq.  at  Boston,  in  New  England, 
these  present. 
[1645.] 
COLENDISSIME    PATER, 
Dei  gratia,  per  totam  navigationem  integra  valitudine  freti,  tandem 
tuti  et  incolumes  ex  undarura  periculis,  iisque  non  minimis,  Tene- 
riffae  appulimus,  ubi  magna  humanitate  a  gente  nostra  tractati  fuimus, 
presertim  a  viro  quodam,  antea  ignoto,  mereatore  sere  mediocri  et 
fama,  splendida  honestate,  nomine  Ferdinando  Body,  cujus  vitae  probi- 
tas,  morum  integritas,  ingeniique  suavitas,  omnibus  in  tantum  elucerunt 
quod  ipse  filius  tuus,  in  omnibus  tibi  obediens,  multum  desiderabam 
memet  cum  isto  viro  collocare,  idque  subsequentibus  rationibus.  Primo, 
quod  eram  certae  vocationis  destitutus,  ignarus  quod  genus  vitae  am- 
plecterer.  Deinde,  avidus  dediscendi  linguam  Hispanicam,  quam  si 
transirem  in  Angliam  nequiveram  comperire.  Tertio,  temporum  re- 
rumque  solo  paterno  instabilitas,  in  tantum  quod  nemo  novit  quid  ibi 
amplecti  quidve  renuere.  Quarto,  quod  video  multos  de  nostratibus  in 
dies  ditescere  et  ex  nihilo  in  altum  vehi.  Quinto,  Dei  providentiae 
quas  video  in  hac  mea  electione  concurrentes  suadere  videntur,  quae 
sunt  cujusmodi  :  Deus  quasi  ex  proposito  hunc  mihi  locum  paravit 
hoc  enim  tempore  abiere  omnes  ejus  ministri,  quod  non  relinquitur  ne 
unus  quidem  ad  ejus  negotia  peragenda  ;  secundo,  conditiones  inter- 
cedentes  quae  sunt  valde  faciles  et  honestae,  ut  primo  non  me  instar 
servi  haberet  sed  fas  erit  abire  quanclo  mihi  libuerit,  deinde  me  nihilo 
carere  quamdiu  cum  illo  mansero.  His  omnibus  consideratis  frater 
meus,  quern  tu  supra  me  tua  vice  constituisti,  hujus  morae  consilium 
applicuit.  Multa  novi  pericula  et  incommoda  quibus  sim  obnoxius 
semper  ad  futura,  ad  quae  perferenda  et  fugienda  submisse  precor  ut 
Omnipotenti  me  precibus  diuternis  memores,  qui  solus  bonum  ostendit. 
Precor  ut  presbuteris  omnibus  qui  de  me  rogitabunt,  Presidique  nostro 
 - 39 - 
14  MASSACHUSETTS   HISTOEICAL   SOCIETY.  [Nov. 
Henrico    Dunstero  viro   spectatissimo,  quam   potes   officiosissime   me 
commendatum  habeas. 
Avunculo  amitaeque  Downingo  officiosae  demissioDis  ex  me  salutes 
dicito,  caeterosque  amicos  meo  nomine  saluta,  qui  maneo  et  nunc  et 
semper 
Filius  tuus  obsequentissimus, 
Samuel  Winthropus. 
Verte  folium. 
Aliud  est  quod  antea  praetermisi.  Est  quidam  Davidus  Stephens, 
mercaturae  gratia  supra  dicto  Ferdinando  obligatus,  quern  fama  dicit 
valde  ingeniosum,  amabilem  et  probum,  qui  quoniam  quibusdam  nego- 
tiis  detentus  erat  in  Laraguna  (quo  tota  sestate  nostrates  semet  con- 
cipiunt  suavioris  vitae  gratia)  non  indicasset  mihi  quid  in  hac  re 
statuerat  quum  superiora  scribebam.  Nuperrime  vero  descendens 
multa  humanitate  me  accepit,  cui  precor  quum  dabitur  scribendi  ansa 
ne  sis  immemor  gratias  tribuere.  Reverende  Pater,  non  novi  quomodo 
arridebit  tibi  quod  feci,  si  novissim  placitum  tuum  memet  penitus  eate- 
nus  applicuissem.  Spero  nihil  tibi  contrarium  accessurum.  Com- 
mendo  memet  in  manus  Altissimi,  ut  ille  me  dirigat  immaculatumque 
tueatur,  cujus  voti  ut  sim  compos  ardeo  precum  tuarum  opem  exopta- 
tissimam.  » 
Indorsed  by  Governor  Winthrop  :  "  Sonne  Sam1.1  from  Teneriff.    Latin." 
[Translation  of  the  foregoing.] 
Most  Worshipful  Father, 
By  God's  favor  through  the  whole  voyage  in  good  health,  at 
length  safe  and  sound  from  the  dangers  of  the  sea,  and  these  not 
trifling,  we  have  arrived  at  Teneriffe,  where  we  have  been  treated 
with  much  politeness  by  our  compatriots,  especially  by  one  Ferdinand 
Body,  before  unknown  to  us,  —  a  merchant  of  modest  fortune  and 
repute  but  shining  honesty,  the  uprightness  of  whose  life,  the  blame- 
lessness  of  whose  morals,  and  the  sweetness  of  whose  disposition  are  so 
surpassing  that  I,  your  son  obedient  to  you  in  all  things,  greatly  desire 
to  take  up  my  abode  with  him,  and  that  for  the  following  reasons  : 
First,  because  I  have  no  fixed  calling,  not  knowing  what  profession 
I  should  embrace.  Then,  my  earnest  wish  to  learn  the  Spanish  lan- 
guage, which,  if  I  go  to  England,  I  shall  not  be  able  to  acquire. 
Third,  the  unsettled  condition  of  things  in  our  fatherland,  insomuch 
that  no  one  can  tell  what  to  enter  upon  and  what  to  avoid.  Fourth, 
because  I  see  many  of  our  people  daily  growing  rich  and  raising  them- 
selves from  nothing.     Fifth,  I  seem  persuaded  in  this  my  choice  by 
 - 40 - 
1891.]  LETTER   OF   SAMUEL   WINTHROP.  15 
providences  of  God  concurring  in  this  wise  :  as  if  God  had  purposely 
provided  this  position  for  me  at  a  time  when  all  his  clerks  have  left 
him,  so  that  no  one  is  left  to  attend  to  his  business  ;  next,  the  terms 
arranged  between  us,  which  are  very  easy  and  honorable,  as  primarily 
that  he  shall  not  control  me  like  an  apprentice,  but  that  I  shall  be 
allowed  to  leave  when  I  please  ;  then,  that  I  shall  want  for  nothing 
while  I  remain  with  him.  All  these  things  considered,  my  brother,1 
whom  you  have  set  over  me  in  your  place,  agrees  in  the  wisdom  of 
this  delay. 
I  have  experienced  many  perils  and  inconveniences,  and  shall  always 
be  exposed  to  them  in  the  future  ;  
in  order  that  I  may  support  or 
escape  them,  I  humbly  beg  that  you  will  remember  me  in  your  daily 
prayers  to  the  Omnipotent,  who  alone  can  direct  us  in  the  right  path. 
Pray  have  me  remembered  as  courteously  as  you  can  to  all  the 
Elders  who  shall  ask  after  me,  and  to  our  most  esteemed  President, 
Henry  Dunster.  To  my  Uncle  and  Aunt  Downing  convey  my  dutiful 
regards,  and  salute  all  other  friends  in  my  name,  who  remains,  now 
and  ever, 
Your  most  obedient  son, 
Samuel  Winthrop. 
Turn  over  the  leaf. 
Another  thing  I  have  before  omitted.  Connected  in  the  way  of 
business  with  the  aforesaid  Ferdinand  is  one  David  Stephens,  reputed 
a  very  intelligent,  amiable,  and  upright  man,  whose  affairs  detained 
him  in  Laraguna  (where  people  pass  the  whole  summer  for  a  more 
agreeable  climate),  and  who,  when  I  wrote  the  foregoing,  had  not  com- 
municated to  
me  what  he  had  decided  in  this  matter  ;  but  having  just 
arrived,  he  has  received  me  with  much  kindness.  Do  not  forget  to 
thank  him  when  you  have  an  opportunity  of  writing.  Revered  father, 
I  know  not  how  what  I  have  done  will  please  you.  If  I  had  been 
aware  of  your  wishes,  I  should  have  followed  them  implicitly.  I  hope 
nothing  will  annoy  you.  I  commit  myself  to  the  hands  of  the  Most 
High,  that  he  may  lead  me  and  keep  me  virtuous  ;  and  in  order  to 
obtain  this  I  earnestly  desire  the  most  wished-for  aid  of  your  prayers. 
1  One  of  his  elder  brothers,  afterward  Col.  Stephen  Winthrop,  M.P.,  was  a 
passenger  in  the  same  vessel,  and  shortly  after  wrote  his  father  on  the  same  sub- 
ject. Both  letters  are  undated  ;  but  Stephen  Winthrop  mentions  that  news  had 
arrived  from  England  that  the  parliamentary  forces  had  taken  Bristol,  and  laid 
siege  to  Basing  House.  As  Cromwell  is  known  to  have  begun  the  siege  of 
Basing  in  September,  1645,  and  as  this  intelligence  may  have  taken  two  months 
to  reach  Teneriffe,  these  letters  could  hardly  have  been  written  before  November 
of  that  year.     See  5  Mass.  Hist.  Coll.  vol.  viii.  pp.  201-204. 
 - 41 - 
16  MASSACHUSETTS    HISTORICAL    SOCIETY.  [Nov. 
[Fragment,  without  address  or  signature.] 
Barbados,  ye  1st  of  februa  1674. 
Honk.d  SR,  —  Through  God's  goodnesse  I  arriued  saife  heere  on 
Tuesday  ye  19th  of  Janua  past,  haueing  26  dayes  passage  &  extrodi- 
nary  good  weather  for  that  season  of  ye  yeare.  Sr  Anthoney  Adkins 
ye  prsent  Gouernr  arriued  heere  about  tenn  weekes  before  us,  since 
which  heere  hath  bin  noe  shipps  from  London  but  such  as  haue  bin 
forsed  hither  by  stresse  of  weather  from  ye  cost  of  New  England  & 
Virginia,  which  are  many,  &  som  of  them  haue  bin  much  damnifyed, 
&  most  of  them  from  home  neere  foure  moneths.  Soe  that  heere  is 
little  of  nuse,  only  many  envyeing  the  prossperouse  estate  of  N :  Eng- 
land saying  all  will  bee  reduced  under  New  Yorke,  a  thing  ye  Quakers 
heere  much  long  for,  who  are  a  people  heere  very  welthy  &  numerouse, 
beeing  aboue  one  third  of  ye  Island  of  that  tenent,  &  dayley  getting  new 
converts.  The  day  after  my  arriuall  I  had  the  honr  to  dyne  with  the 
Gentlemen  of  ye  Assembly,  many  of  which  had  rec'd  greate  prejudis 
against  New  England  for  theire  not  attempting  to  reduce  New  Yorke, 
which  I  prsume  was  from  misinformation  rec'd  from  prjudis'd  persons. 
For  after  I  had  informd  them  how  strong  the  Duch  had  made  it  dure- 
ing  the  stay  of  theire  fleete,  as  alsoe  the  want  of  shipps  of  forse,  ye 
unseasonable  time  of  ye  yeare,  with  many  other  considerable  incon- 
venyences  attending  it, —  as  ye  want  of  many  of  our  vessells  which 
ware  then  heere  for  theire  supply  of  prouition  (which  wee  wanted  to 
transport  men,  prouition  &  vtensells  of  warr)  many  others  absent  on  ye 
like  seruis,  with  whome  ware  most  of  our  able  experiencd  men  for  such 
seruis,  —  they  ware  well  sattisfyed  &  doe  account  themselues  obleidged 
to  New  England  for  the  supply  of  prouition  they  had  dureing  the  warr, 
considring  ye  greate  risque  they  rann  by  transporting  them  in  such 
mean  vessells  of  burthen  &  without  forse.  They  are  now  alsoe  much 
dissattisfyed  with  the  Custom  imposed  of  18?  on  ye  hundred,  I  haueing 
informed  them  that  our  merchants  resolue  to  shipp  the  greatest  part  of 
theire  effects  for  England,  whereby  theire  rum  &  molasses  heere  will  be- 
com  of  noe  use  or  vallew  to  them,  with  which  they  haue  hitherto  sup- 
plyed  theire  plantations  with  prouition  &  horses,  beeing  very  considerable 
benifitt  to  them  &  a  promt  they  will  soone  misse  ;  &  to  confirme  what 
I  haue  informed  them,  all  our  New  England  vessells  goeing  for  sault, 
take  none  of  ye  Island  groath  with  them,  but  shipp  sugrs  to  England  or 
lay  out  theire  money  heere  in  goods,  which  still  proues  the  Islands  dis- 
aduantage  &  will  putt  them  on  the  consideration  of  haueing  that  tax 
eased  at  theire  next  sitting,  som  propounding  one  way  for  sattisfying 
the  King's  Customs,  others  willing  to  haue  it  laid  on  ye  Island,  but  all 
sensable  of  the  greate  prejudis  will  accrue  to  them  yf  they  loose  the 
benifitt  of  those  two  comodyties,  which  are  vendable  in  noe  part  of  ye 
 - 42 - 
1891.]  DARTMOOR   PRISON.  17 
world  but  New  England  &  Virginea.  Which  consideration  I  did  for- 
ward by  
informeing  them  how  aduantagius  it  would  proue  to  New  Eng- 
land  yf  they  ware  denyed  the  use  of  those  goods,  haueing  a  full  supply 
of  good  mault  for  beere,  &  syder  to  distill  into  liquors,  &  that  a  smale 
quantity  of  sugr  will  furnish  us,  haueing  store  of  good  honey  ;  alsoe 
that  greate  part  of  our  people  will  be  improued  in  raiseing  manufactures, 
haueing  good  wooll,  flax  &  hempe,  &  not  altogether  about  provition  (as 
they  deemed)  to  make  it  a  drugg. 
I  brought  all  my  horses  sait'e  &  to  an  indifferent  good  markett,  viz  : 
3000  lb  sug^  ty  head.  Prouitions  are  low,  espeteally  flower,  pease  & 
bread,  alsoe  beefe  &  candles.  I  haue  disposed  of  above  one  halfe  of 
what  I  brought  for  lesse  money  heere  then  it  would  haue  sould  for  at 
Boston  &  see  little  hopes  of  goeing  for  England  this  6  weekes  or  two 
moneths,  heere  beeing  little  sugr  ready,  nor  any  frayte  to  bee  gott 
home  till  ye  London  shipps  com  in,  which  are  dayley  looked  for,  but  will 
stay  that  time  before  they  can  bee  ready  to  saile.  I  brought  a  barell  of 
apples  for  Coll  :  
Newton  &  tooke  them  vp  at  sea  to  cull  &  preserue 
what  then  remained  good,  but  by  that  time  wee  gott  in  they  ware  all 
perished  to  about  twenty,  which  hee  thankfully  accepted  from  you. 
Mr.  Justin  Winsor  communicated  some  memoranda  about 
Dartmoor  Prison  and  the  Hutchinson  manuscripts,  handed  to 
him  by  Mr.  Edward  L.  Pierce,  as  follows  :  —       • 
"On  October  5,  1891,  I  drove  in  the  early  morning  from  Morton 
Hampstead,  in  a  dog-cart,  to  Princeton,  across  Dartmoor  Forest,  —  a 
forest  distinguished  in  this,  that  it  has  no  trees.  Most  of  the  time  for 
the  drive  of  fourteen  miles  I  was  enveloped  in  fog,  —  a  cause  of  obscur- 
ity of  
vision  common  to  this  locality,  —  and  so  my  view  was  limited.  My 
visit  was  particularly  for  the  purpose  of  seeing  Dartmoor  Prison,  where 
my  maternal  uncle,  Samuel  S.  Lillie,  was  imprisoned  in  the  War  of  1812. 
The  officers  of  the  prison  were  civil,  the  deputy -governor  himself  con- 
ducting me  about  within  the  enclosure.  To  my  inquiry  he  answered 
that  he  had  never  had  but  one  American  visitor  coming  on  the  same 
errand.  The  present  prison  for  convicts  was  established,  I  think,  about 
1850  ;  
but  the  two  old  prison  buildings  remain,  overshadowed  by  the 
larger  and  newer  ones.  The  American  prison  is  now  used  for  making 
boots  and  shoes.  The  French  prison  is  near  by.  The  tradition  is  that 
the  American  prisoners  were  quite  difficult  to  manage.  I  was  shown 
two  yards  or  gardens,  arranged  with  walks  and  beds  of  flowers,  in 
which  convicts  were  at  work  under  a  gardener.  In  one  was  an  obelisk, 
in  the  centre,  on  which  was  this  inscription  :  '  
In  memory  of  the  Ameri- 
can prisoners  of  war  who  died  between  the  years  1809  and  1814,  and 
are  buried  here.  Dulce  et  decorum  est  pro  patria  mori.'  In  the  other 
was  an  obelisk,  with  the  same  inscription,  excepting  the  substitution  of 
 - 43 - 
18  MASSACHUSETTS   HISTORICAL   SOCIETY. 
[Nov. 
' French'  for  ' American.'  The  ground  was  all  smooth,  and  there 
appeared  no  individual  grave  or  memorial.  The  two  cemeteries  were 
in  a  bad  condition  till  as  late  as  1865,  some  of  the  bones  appearing 
above  the  ground ;  but  in  that  year  all  that  could  be  found  were  re- 
buried,  the  grounds  put  in  good  order,  and  the  obelisks  erected.  A 
fine  parish  church,  opposite  the  prison,  is  said  to  have  been  built  by  the 
war  prisoners.  I  was  shown  a  thin  volume,  published  a  few  years  ago, 
giving  an  account  both  of  the  war  and  of  the  convict  prisons,  and 
incidents  connected  with  them. 
"On  the  evening  of  Oct.  5,  1891,  I  called,  at  Sidmouth,  on  Mr. 
P.  O.  Hutchinson,  great-grandson  of  Gov.  Thomas  Hutchinson,  and 
editor  of  the  latter' s  '  
Diary.'  We  had  had  some  previous  correspond- 
ence, as  
his  book  relates  much  to  Milton,  my  own  place  of  residence, 
and  as  also  the  families  of  the  Hutchinsons  and  the  Lillies  (the  latter 
being  my  maternal  progenitors)  are  related  to  each  other.  Mr.  Hutch- 
inson is  
well  known  in  his  town,  being  recognized  as  the  leading 
archaeologist  of  the  locality.  His  house  is  known  as  'The  Chancel,' 
being  named  from  a  part  of  a  demolished  church  which  he  saved  and 
secured  for  his  own  building.  He  is  an  accomplished  carver  ;  and  on 
the  ceiling  of  his  library  are  coats  of  arms,  worked  by  himself,  which 
are,  I  think,  armorial  ensigns  connected  with  the  history  of  the  local- 
ity. Mr.  Hutchinson  is,  I  may  add,  a  bachelor.  He  informed  me 
that  he  had  deposited  in  the  British  Museum  the  Governor  Hutchinson 
manuscripts,  where  they  may  always  be  found  for  the  verification  of  his 
publication." 
Mr.  Winsor  also  said  that  he  was  somewhat  surprised  to 
find  in  the  last  volume  of  the  Proceedings  an  Italian  text  of 
the  first  letter  of  Columbus  which  had  escaped  his  attention. 
When  recently  in  Genoa,  he  was  for  two  or  three  days  under 
the  guidance  of  the  Cavaliere  Cornelio  Desimoni,  the  honorary 
archivist  of  Genoa,  and  our  Corresponding  Member.  He  is 
probably  the  best  Italian  authority  on  the  earliest  American 
exploration  ;  and  Mr.  Winsor  would  have  thought  it  strange 
that  this  letter  was  not  brought  to  his  attention  by  his  friend, 
if  Desimoni  supposed  it  worth  considering.  Mr.  Winsor  fur- 
ther remarked  that  he  had  sent  the  text  as  printed  in  the 
Proceedings  to  Mr.  Harrisse  in  Paris,  the  first  authority  on 
mooted  points  in  Columbus's  career  ;  and  in  a  letter  from  that 
gentleman  it  appears  that  the  document  was  known  to  him  as 
a  contemporary  version  of  the  Spanish  original  in  the  Vene- 
tian dialect,  and  showing  some  palpable  errors,  or  perhaps  mis- 
conceptions of  
the  translator.     It  is  curious  as  a  contemporary 
 - 44 - 
1891.]  THREE   DUTCH   MEDALS.  19 
evidence  of  a  certain  amount  of  interest  existing  in  Venice  in 
the  new  discoveries,  but  of  no  other  value. 
It  may  be  worth  remarking  that  a  few  years  ago,  when  one 
of  the  United  States  war-ships  was  in  Genoa,  the  municipal 
authorities,  to  compliment  its  officers,  caused  full-sized  photo- 
graphs of a  few  of  the  letters  of  Columbus  preserved  in  the 
City  Hall  in  that  place,  to  be  made,  and  presented  a  set  to 
each  of  the  officers.  They  are  probably  preserved  now  in 
those  officers'  families  in  different  parts  of  the  country  ;  
but 
one  of  the  sets  has  found  its  way  into  the  library  of  Harvard 
College. 
The  reference  to  the  Hutchinson  papers  elicited  remarks 
from  the  Hon.  Mellen  Chamberlain,  the  President,  and 
Mr.  Winsor,  relative  to  the  materials  used  by  Governor 
Hutchinson  in  writing  the  third  volume  of  his  "  History  of 
Massachusetts."  Judge  Chamberlain  spoke  of  the  minuteness 
of  the  narrative,  and  said  that  when  Hutchinson  went  to  Eng- 
land in  
1774,  he  expected  to. return  to  Boston,  and  it  was  not 
probable  that  he  carried  with  him  materials  for  writing  a  his- 
tory. His  papers  were  subsequently  seized  by  the  authorities 
here  ;  
but  in  some  way  he  had  access  to  a  large  mass  of  ori- 
ginal papers.  The  President  suggested  that  Hutchinson  no 
doubt  took  with  him  all  the  papers  which  he  needed  for  his 
own  vindication,  and  that  his  son,  who  went  to  England  in 
the  following  year,  might  have  carried  others.  Mr.  Winsor 
said  a  list  of  Hutchinson's  papers  was  printed  in  "  Notes  and 
Queries  "  some  years  ago. 
Rev.  Dr.  Lucius  R.  Paige  said  that  John  Wheeler,  one  of 
the  leaders  in  Shays's  Rebellion,  was  a  resident  of  Hard  wick, 
his  native  town,  and  described  the  circumstances  connected 
with  the  reprieve  of  the  convicted  insurgents.  Wheeler  had 
been  a  lieutenant  in  the  militia,  and  some  years  afterward  was 
commissioned  by  Governor  Hancock  a  captain,  as  if  promoted. 
The  Librarian  said  he  had  received  an  official  communi- 
cation from  the  Assistant  Secretary  of  State  at  Washington, 
transmitting  the  copy  of  a  despatch  from  the  American  min- 
ister at  
The  Hague,  and  three  Dutch  medals.1  The  despatch 
is  as  follows  :  — 
1  These  medals,  and  others  of  the  same  period,  are  fully  described  by  our 
associate  Mr.  William  S.  Appleton,  in  the  "  American  Journal  of  Numismatics," 
vol.  ii.  p.  64. 
 - 45 - 
20  MASSACHUSETTS   HISTORICAL   SOCIETY.  [Nov. 
No.  257. 
Legation  of  the  United  States, 
The  Hague,  August  31,  1891. 
To  the  Hon.  James  G.  Blaine,  Secretary  of  State,  Washington,  D.  C. 
Sir, —  I  have  the  honor  to  state  that  on  a  recent  occasion,  while 
paying  a  visit  to  the  Royal  Museum  at  The  Hague,  I  discovered  three 
medals,  which  by  reason  of  their  relation  to  prominent  events  in  our 
early  history,  and  other  considerations  hereafter  alluded  to,  render  it 
proper  that  I  should  bring  them  to  the  notice  of  the  Department. 
The  first  medal  in  the  series  referred  to  was  designed  to  commem- 
orate the  recognition  of  American  Independence  by  the  Province  of 
Friesland  on  the  26th  of  February,  1782,  a  description  of  which  is  as 
follows  :  — 
On  the  obverse  side  is  a  male  figure  personating  a  Frisian  in 
ancient  costume,  joining  right  hands  with  an  American,  represented 
by  a  maiden  in  aboriginal  dress,  standing  on  a  sceptre,  with  her  left 
hand  resting  on  a  shield  bearing  the  inscription  :  "  The  United  States 
of  North  America  "  ;  while  with  his  left  hand  the  Frisian  signals  his 
rejection  of  an  olive  branch  offered  by  a  Briton,  represented  by  a 
maiden  accompanied  by  a  tiger,  the  left  hand  of  the  maiden  resting 
on  a  shield  having  the  inscription  :  u  Great  Britain." 
On  the  reverse  side  is  the  figure  of  an  arm  projecting  from  the 
clouds  holding  the  Coat  of  Arms  of  the  Province  of  Friesland,  under 
which  is  the  inscription  :  "To  the  State  of  Friesland,  in  grateful  recog- 
nition of  
the  Acts  of  Assemblies  in  February  and  April,  1782,  by  the 
Burgher's  Club  of  Leeuwarden  Liberty  and  Zeal." 
The  second  medal  in  this  series  was  struck  off  by  order  of  the  States 
General  in  commemoration  of  its  recognition  of  the  Independence  of 
the  United  States. 
On  the  obverse  side  of  the  medal  will  be  found  the  United  States 
and  the  Netherlands  represented  by  two  maidens  equipped  for  war, 
with  right  hands  joined  over  a  burning  altar.  The  Dutch  maiden  is 
placing  an  emblem  of  freedom  on  the  head  of  the  American,  whose 
right  foot,  attached  to  a  broken  chain,  rests  on  England,  represented  by 
a  tiger.  In  the  field  of  the  medal  are  the  words  :  "  Libera  Soror. 
Solemni  Deer.  Agn.      19   Apr.  MDCCLXXXII." 
On  the  reverse  side  is  the  figure  of  a  unicorn  lying  prostrate  before 
a  steep  rock,  against  which  he  has  broken  his  horn  ;  over  the  figure  are 
the  words,  "  Tyrannis  Virtute  Repulsa,"  and  underneath  the  same  the 
words,  "sub  Galliae  auspiciis." 
The  third  medal  in  the  series  was  made  to  commemorate  the  Treaty 
of  Commerce  and  Navigation  entered  into  between  the  United  States 
and  the  Netherlands,  the  7th  of  October,  1782. 
On  its  obverse  side  stands  in  relief  a  monumental  needle,  bearing 
 - 46 - 
1891.]  THREE   DUTCH  MEDALS.  21 
the  Amsterdam  Coat  of  Arms,  upon  which  a  wreath  is  being  placed 
by  a  figure  representing  Mercury  ;  underneath  the  Coat  of  Arms  is  a 
parchment,  bearing  the  inscription,  "  Pro  Dro  Mvs."  France,  sym- 
bolized by a  crowing  cock,  stands  beside  the  needle,  pointing,  with  a 
conjurer's  hand,  to  a  horn  of  plenty  and  an  anchor.  Over  all  are  the 
words:  "  Justitiam  et  non  temnere  divos." 
On  the  reverse  side  is  an  image  of  Fame,  riding  on  a  cloud,  and  carry- 
ing the  Arms  of  the  Netherlands  and  the  United  States,  surmounted 
by  a  naval  crown.  The  figures  are  covered  by  the  following  words: 
"  Favstissimo  foedere  jvnctas.     Die  VII  Octob.  MDCCLXXXII." 
It  will  be  remembered  that  John  Adams,  while  discharging  his  duties 
at  Paris  as  Commissioner  in  arranging  a  treaty  of  Peace  and  Com- 
merce with  Great  Britain,  was,  in  the  year  1780,  appointed  Minister 
to  the  Netherlands  ;  also  that  political  complications  between  Holland 
and  England  delayed  his  reception  by  the  government  for  more  than 
two  years  after  he  first  offered  his  credentials. 
The  States  General,  oppressed  by  the  magnitude  of  the  responsi- 
bility, refused  to  pass  upon  the  question  until  it  had  been  submitted  to 
each  of  the  Provinces  for  individual  action. 
Friesland,  impelled  by  the  Germanic  love  of  freedom  which  had  long 
characterized  its  people,  took  the  initiative  in  the  movement  for  recog- 
nition, passing  an  Act  to  that  effect  on  the  26th  of  February,  a.d.  1782. 
Soon  thereafter  the  remaining  Provinces  followed  her  example,  and  on 
the  19th  of  April,  1782,  the  States  General,  in  deference  to  the  wishes 
of  the  Provinces,  received  Mr.  Adams's  credentials. 
It  will  also  be  borne  in  mind  that  while  a  Dutch  man-of-war  first 
saluted  the  American  flag,  Holland  stands  second  in  the  roll  of  foreign 
nations  which  formally  recognized  our  independence,  and  the  second 
with  whom  we  made  a  treaty  of  commerce  and  navigation. 
The  medals  in  question  possess  interest,  in  that  they  furnish  the 
best  evidence  extant  of  the  current  of  opinion  and  sentiment  at  that 
time  in  the  Netherlands  concerning  England  and  the  United  States, 
and  are  moreover  worthy  of  special  mention,  inasmuch  as  I  do  not  find 
them  referred  to  in  Mr.  Adams's  public  correspondence,  or  in  any  book 
published  in  our  language. 
Through  the  courtesy  of  the  government  I  have  been  permitted  to 
procure  five  copies  of  each  of  these  medals,  and  take  pleasure  in  trans- 
mitting them  to  the  Department  through  the  agency  of  the  American 
Despatch  Agent,  London. 
One  set  is  designed  for  the  Department  of  State  ;  one  for  the  New 
York  Historical  Society  ;  one  for  the  Massachusetts  Historical  Society  ; 
one  for  the  Minnesota  State  Historical  Society  ;  and  one  for  the  Hol- 
land Society  of  New  York. 
Should  the  Department  approve,  the  four  last-mentioned  sets  may 
 - 47 - 
22  MASSACHUSETTS   HISTORICAL   SOCIETY.  [Nov. 
be  forwarded  to  each  of  the  above-named  societies,  with  a  copy  of  this 
despatch. 
There  can  be  no  more  interesting  or  profitable  study  for  the  citizen 
of  the  United  States,  than  the  process  of  reasoning  which  led  to  our 
separate  national  existence,  and  the  adoption  of  the  present  form  of 
government  ;  or  the  motives  which  influenced  the  people  of  other  lands 
to  welcome  our  advent  into  the  family  of  nations. 
I  have  the  honor  to  be,  Sir, 
Your  obedient  servant, 
Samuel   R.- Thayer. 
The  thanks  of  the  Society  were  voted  to  Mr.  Thayer  for  his 
valuable  gift. 
Mr.  Charles  Francis  Adams  then  read  the  following 
communication  :  — 
There  are  two  matters,  both  of  an  historical  character, 
though  wholly  disconnected,  to  which  I  desire  to  call  the 
attention  of  the  Society. 
After  Gov.  William  Coddington,  of  Rhode  Island,  went  into 
exile,  in  April,  1638,  as  a  result  of  the  so-called  Antinomian 
controversy,  a  portion  of  the  grant  made  to  him  at  "the 
Mount,"  as  it  was  called,  three  years  before  by  the  city  of 
Boston,  passed  into  the  possession  of  the  town  of  Braintree  ; 
and  a  copy  of  the  deed  of  this  land  fills  the  first  page  of  the 
Records  of  the  town.  It  was  called  "  the  Schoole  Land,"  and 
was  conveyed  by  Coddington's  attorney,  Richard  Wright,  to 
the  Selectmen  of  the  town.  Unfortunately,  as  appears  by  ex- 
amining the  printed  volume  of  the  Braintree  Records,  the 
original  record-book  has  been  so  mutilated  by  two  centuries 
of  handling  that  only  a  portion  of  the  instrument  can  be 
deciphered. 
It  has  from  time  immemorial  been  the  tradition  in  Braintree 
and  Quincy  that  this  School  Land  was  a  voluntary  gift  from 
Coddington  to  the  town,  and  by  him  devoted  to  educational 
purposes. 
Never  having  fully  satisfied  myself  that  such  was  really  the 
case,  during  the  past  summer,  in  connection  with  other  his- 
torical work  upon  which  I  am  engaged,  I  have  either  made, 
or  caused  to  be  made,  a  careful  examination  of  all  the  evidence 
bearing  upon  the  subject.  This  examination  satisfied  me  that, 
the  lands  in  question  did  not  come  to  the  town  of  Braintree  as 
 - 48 - 
1891.]  SITE   OF   THE   WESSAGUSSET   SETTLEMENT.  23 
a  gift  from  Coddington,  but  that  they  were  conveyed  to  the 
town  by  Wright  as  the  result  of  a  law-suit,  and  under  circum- 
stances suggesting  a  surmise  that  Coddington  was  not  only 
exiled  from  Massachusetts,  but  after  his  exile  was  judicially 
despoiled  of  a  portion  of  his  property.  These  conclusions  I 
embodied  a  short  time  since  in  a  somewhat  elaborate  communi- 
cation, which  appeared  in  the  "  Quincy  Patriot  "  of  Septem- 
ber 19  of  the  present  year,  and  has  since  been  reprinted  in  the 
October  number  of  the  "  Magazine  of  New  England  History" 
(vol.  i.  pp.  228-238).  The  subject  is  one  of  greater  historical 
interest  in  Rhode  Island  than  here  ;  for  in  Rhode  Island  Gov- 
ernor Coddington  occupies  much  the  same  place  in  the  public 
estimation  that  John  Winthrop  occupies  in  Massachusetts. 
Anything  relating  to  him  is  there  eagerly  studied.  I  did  not 
deem  it  worth  while  to  submit  to  the  Society  a  paper  pre- 
pared on  a  matter  of  such  purely  local  and  town  interest,  and 
have  it  incorporated  in  their  Proceedings  ;  
but  nevertheless, 
I  want  to  call  attention  to  the  fact  that  such  an  investigation 
as  I  have  stated  has  been  made  and  such  a  paper  prepared, 
and  put  a  mention  of  it  on  file  here,  as  an  indication  of  where 
it  can  be  found.  Accordingly,  I  now  mention  the  fact  with 
an  eye  to  the  Indexes  to  the  printed  Proceedings  of  the 
Society  ;  and  I  will  further  state,  should  any  investigator 
hereafter  put  upon  the  clew  wish  to  examine  the  paper  re- 
ferred to,  
that  a  copy  of  the  "  Quincy  Patriot  "  containing  it 
has  been  placed  in  the  scrap-book  of  this  Society,  and  also 
among  the  collections  of  each  one  of  the  public  libraries  of 
Rhode  Island,  so  far  as  their  names  have  come  to  my 
knowledge. 
The  other  matter  to  which  I  wish  to  call  attention  is  of 
much  greater  interest,  and  immediately  connected  with  a  well- 
known  incident  in  early  Massachusetts  history.  I  refer  to  the 
site  of  Weston's  plantation  of  1622  at  Wessaguscus,  or  Wessa- 
gusset,  in  what  is  now  the  town  of  Weymouth. 
Nearly  twenty  years  ago  I  was  invited  to  deliver  an  address 
upon  the  two  hundred  and  fiftieth  anniversary  of  the  settle- 
ment of  
the  town  of  Weymouth.  In  preparing  that  address 
I  made  an  effort  to  locate  the  site  of  Weston's  settle- 
ment, but  was  able  to  get  no  further  indication  of  it  than 
is  contained  in  the  following  extract  from  Russell's  "  Guide 
to  Plymouth":  — 
 - 49 - 
24  MASSACHUSETTS  HISTORICAL  SOCIETY.  [Nov. 
"  A  correspondent  in  Quincy  thus  describes  the  place  :  f  
It  is  about 
three  miles  southeast  of  the  granite  church  in  Quincy,  at  a  place  locally 
called  Old  Spain.'  Weston's  colony  sailed  up  Fore  River,  which  sepa- 
rates Quincy  from  Weymouth,  and  then  entered  Phillips  Creek,  and 
commenced  operations  on  its  north  bank"   (p.  106,  note). 
It  seemed  to  be  well  established  that  the  site  of  Weston's  set- 
tlement was  in  that  part  of  Weymouth  now  locally  known  as 
"  Old  Spain  "  ;  
though  no  one  has  ever  yet  been  able  to  suggest 
even  a  plausible  theory  why  it  is  called  "  Old  Spain."  It  will 
be  remembered  that  when  Governor  Winthrop  in  1632  paid  his 
first  visit  to  Plymouth,  he  started  from  Boston  on  what  is  now 
the  4th  of  November,  taking  with  him  John  Wilson,  the  pas- 
tor of  
the  church,  and  others,  and,  going  on  board  the  "  Lion," 
was  carried  by  the  captain  of  that  ship  in  a  boat  to  Wessagus- 
cus.  There  they  passed  the  night,  and  "  the  next  morning  .  .  . 
the  Governor  and  his  company  went  on  foot  to  Plimouth,  and 
came  thither  within  the  evening."  This  was  Friday  ;  remain- 
ing at  
Plymouth  until  the  following  Wednesday,  "  about  five 
in  the  morning  the  Governor  and  his  company  came  out  of 
Plimouth  ;  the  Governor  of  Plimouth,  with  the  pastor  and 
elder,  etc.,  accompanying  them  near  half  a  mile  out  of  town 
in  the  dark  "  ;  and  they  "  came  that  evening  to  Wessaguscr  ', 
where  they  were  bountifully  entertained  as  before  with  more 
turkeys,  geese,  ducks,  etc.,  and  the  next  da}'  came  safe  to 
Boston."  1 
The  point  here  to  be  emphasized  is  Winthrop's  double  visit 
to  Wessagusset  in  November,  1632,  and  his  stay  there  both 
going  to  and  coming  from  Plymouth.  He  was  more  or  less 
familiar  with  the  locality,  and  knew  exactly  where  to  place 
the  settlement  on  a  map  of  the  coast,  especially  how  it  lay  as 
regarded  the  harbor  and  the  approaches  to  it. 
Wood,  in  his  "  New  England's  Prospect,"  2  says  of  Wessa- 
gusset in 1633  :  — 
"  This  as  yet  is  but  a  small  village  ;  yet  it  is  very  pleasant  and 
healthful,  very  good  ground,  and  is  well  timbered,  and  hath  good  store 
of  hay-ground.  It  hath  a  very  spacious  harbour  for  shipping  before  the 
town,  the  salt  water  being  navigable  for  boats  and  pinnaces  two  leagues. 
Here  the  inhabitants  have  good  store  of  fish  of  all  sorts,  and  swine, 
having  acorns  and  clams  at  the  time  of  year.  Here  is  likewise  an  ale- 
wife  river." 
1  Savage's  Winthrop,  i.  *92,  *93. 
2  Young's  Chronicles  of  Massachusetts,  pp.  394,  395. 
 - 50 - 
1891.]  SITE   OF   THE   WESSAGUSSET   SETTLEMENT.  25 
There  is  accordingly  no  doubt  whatever  that  Weymouth 
was  the  oldest  settled  place  in  the  original  colony  of  Massa- 
chusetts Bay ;  and,  next  to  Plymouth,  is  the  oldest  settled 
place  in  what  is  now  the  Commonwealth  of  Massachusetts. 
Originally  selected  about  the  middle  of  May,  1622,  for  the  site 
of  a  plantation  by  those  sent  out  by  Thomas  Weston,  it  was 
occupied  by  Weston's  company  in  the  following  August. 
Early  in  April,  1623,  those  composing  the  plantation  having 
in  the  course  of  the  winter  fallen  into  great  straits,  Miles 
Standish  went  to  their  assistance  from  Plymouth,  and  there 
on  the  6th  of  the  month,  according  to  the  revised  calendar, 
had  his  bloody  fight  with  the  Indians,  resulting  in  the  killing 
of  Pecksuot  and  Wituwamut.  Wessagusset  was  then  wholly 
abandoned;  but  "the  pale  and  houses,"  to  use  the  expression 
in  Winslow's  "Good  Newes"1  had  not  been  destroyed  by 
the  savages,  and  they  were  occupied  by  Capt.  Robert  Gorges 
and  his  party  about  the  middle  of  the  following  September.2 
Since  then  the  place  has  never  been  wholly  abandoned  :  and 
the  first  permanent  and  continuous  settlement  on  the  shores 
i  Young's  Chronicles  of  Pilgrims,  p.  
344. 
2  Referring  to  a  similar  statement  heretofore  made,  Nash  in  a  note  to  his 
'  listory  of  Weymouth"  remarks  (p.  22):  "Mr.  Adams  says  about  the  middle 
of  September.  In  Sir  Fernando  Gorges'  description  of  New  England  [Briefe 
Narration,  p.  33 ;  Baxter's  Gorges,  vol.  ii.  p.  50],  he  says,  '  
my  son  arrived  [at 
Wessaguscus]  about  the  beginning  of  August.'  " 
Bradford  is  the  authority  for  the  date  given.  He  says  (History,  p.  148)  :  "  About 
the  middle  of  September  arrived  Captaine  Robert  Gorges  in  the  Bay  of  the  Mas- 
sachusetts." Bradford  is  on  this  point  a  much  more  reliable  authority  than  Sir 
Ferdinando  Gorges  ;  
for  not  only  was  he  on  the  ground,  but  he  was  at  once  notified 
by  Robert  Gorges  by  letter  of  the  arrival  of  the  latter,  who  immediately  after- 
wards visited  Plymouth.  Bradford  also  made  his  record  at  the  time,  and  is 
always  to  be  relied  on  as  an  authority.  Sir  Ferdinando  Gorges,  on  the  contrary, 
was  not  only  at  a  distance,  but  he  wrote  at  least  fourteen  years  after  the  event  ; 
and  the  statements  on  many  points  of  detail  in  the  "  Briefe  Narration  "  are  made 
from  memory  and  are  unreliable.  Adams's  Three  Episodes,  p.  23,  note  ;  
Baxter's 
Memoir  of  Gorges,  p.  104,  note. 
In  the  present  case,  moreover,  there  can  be  no  doubt  that  Bradford  was  right, 
and  Gorges  wrong.  The  Records  of  the  Council  for  New  England  show  that 
the  vessel  in  which  Robert  Gorges  sailed  was  not  ready  for  sea  at  the  end 
of  June  (Proceedings  of  American  Antiquarian  Society,  April,  1867,  and  Octo- 
ber, 1875)  ;  and  Bradford's  narrative  of  events  immediately  subsequent  to 
Robert  Gorges'  arrival  shows  that  all  those  events  took  place  in  October  and 
early  November. 
Sir  Ferdinando  Gorges,  writing  many  years  afterwards,  seems  to  have  given  the 
time  of  his  son's  departure  from  England  for  that  of  his  arrival  in  Massachusetts 
Bay,  where  he  probably  landed  somewhere  between  the  23d  and  27th  of  Septem- 
ber, 1623,  according  to  the  calendar  now  in  use. 
4 
 - 51 - 
26  MASSACHUSETTS   HISTORICAL   SOCIETY.  [Nov. 
of  Boston  Bay  dates,  therefore,  from  the  landing  of  Robert 
Gorges'  party  at  Wessagusset,  or  Weymouth,  in  September, 
1623.  This  whole  subject,  it  may  be  remembered,  I  discussed 
in  a  paper  read  before  this  Society  thirteen  years  ago,  printed 
in  Volume  XVI.  of  the  Proceedings  (pp.  194-206),  and  again 
in  another  paper  in  the  "  Memorial  History  of  Boston"  (vol.  i. 
chap.  iii.).  Wessagusset,  therefore,  is  a  place  the  exact  local- 
ity of  
which  it  is  desirable  should  be  fixed. 
A  short  time  ago  I  for  the  first  time  carefully  examined  a 
copy  of  Winthrop's  original  map,  of  1634,  of  Massachusetts 
Bay,  found  by  Mr.  Henry  F.  Waters  in  England.  I  noticed  on 
this  map  that  Wessagusset  was  located  by  Governor  Winthrop 
not  upon  Phillips  Creek,  or  at  the  place  which  tradition  has 
always  indicated,  but  farther  north,  and  at  a  point  much  more 
naturally  adapted  to  the  purposes  of  a  pioneer  trading-sta- 
tion. I  
have  never  felt  satisfied  that  the  traditional  site  on 
the  north  side  of  Phillips  Creek  was  the  correct  one.  Re- 
peated and  careful  examination  of  the  ground  disclosed  no 
possible  reason  for  there  placing  such  a  station.  The  site 
does  not  look  toward  the  sea,  commanding  the  entrance  to 
the  harbor  ;  neither  is  there  good  anchorage  in  front  of  it, 
as  Wood  says  there  was  before  Wessagusset,  nor  is  it  readily 
accessible.  The  site  indicated  on  Winthrop's  map  struck  me 
at  once  as  being  far  more  natural. 
As  I  wished  to  fix  the  probable  true  site  with  as  much 
confidence  as  possible,  I  invited  Mr.  Henry  W.  Haynes,  of  the 
Society,  and  Mr.  Thomas  F.  Cleverly,  a  resident  of  "  Old 
Spain,"  who  has  given  much  attention  to  matters  connected 
with  its  local  history,  to  visit  the  ground  with  me.  We  went 
there,  accordingly,  on  the  18th  of  October,  taking  a  copy  of 
Winthrop's  map  with  us. 
I  shall  ask  to  have  that  portion  of  the  map  which  includes 
the  Wessagusset  site  and  its  immediate  vicinity  reproduced 
in  connection  with  this  paper.  I  will  merely  add  that,  con- 
sidering how  freely  this  map  is  drawn,  and  how  much  of  what 
is  on  it  is  merely  roughly  indicated,  it  will  be  found  in  all  essen- 
tial respects,  when  examined  on  the  spot,  singularly  accurate. 
For  instance,  not  only  the  outline  of  the  coast,  but  all  the 
rivers  and  creeks  are  so  correctly  set  down  as  to  be  recognized 
at  once.  The  site  of  Thomas  Morton's  Merrymount,  subse- 
quently Mount  Wollaston,  can  be  placed  lying  between  what 
 - 52 - 
NORTH 
^ 
p-jM 
SECTION    OF  "THE   WATERS-WINTHROP    MAP 
 - 53 - 
 - 54 - 
1891.]  SITE   OF   THE   WESSAGUSSET   SETTLEMENT.  27 
was  known  as  the  Mount  Wollaston  River  and  the  Quincy 
River.  So  also  the  stream  running  down  from  what  is  now 
known  as  Braintree  Neck,  and  also  the  Weymouth  Fore 
River  and  the  Weymouth  Back  River.  The  exact  position 
of  the  present  bridge  connecting  Quincy  Point  with  "  Old 
Spain  "  can  be  seen,  as  also  the  outline  of  the  tidal  basin  south 
of  it.  An  examination  of  the  map  shows  that  Governor  Win- 
throp, who  had  been  there  personally,  located  the  Wessagusset 
settlement  nearly  opposite  the  mouth  of  the  Quincy  River, 
and  a  little  if  anything  north  of  it.  Phillips  Creek,  on  the 
other  hand,  also  on  the  opposite  shore,  is  actually  a  consider- 
able distance  above  the  mouth  of  the  Quincy  River,  and  quite 
concealed  from  it.  A  purely  tidal  inlet,  it  is  not  indicated  on 
the  map.  There  is  now  no  anchorage  ground  near  it ;  and  in 
this  most  important  respect  it  fails  to  agree  with  Wood's  de- 
scription, — "  a  very  spacious  harbor  for  shipping  before  the 
town." 
Going  on  the  18th  of  October  to  the  site  of  the  Wessagus- 
set plantation,  according  to  Wintbrop's  map,  it  was  at  once 
obvious  to  us  that  this  locality  was  the  one  which  naturally 
would  have  been  selected  for  the  purposes  of  a  pioneer  trad- 
ing-station. Not  only  was  there  good  anchorage,  as  Wood 
says,  in  front  of  it  and  within  a  reasonable  distance  of  the 
shore,  but  the  place  commands  a  clear  and  unbroken  view  of 
the  entrance  to  the  harbor  through  what  is  now  known  as 
"  Hull  Gut,"  or  the  passage  between  Hull  and  Peddock's 
Island.  Had  the  site  north  of  Phillips  Creek  been  selected,  it 
would  have  been  impossible  to  get  from  it  any  view  of  the 
harbor,  while  it  is  obvious  that  for  those  seeking  to  establish 
a  trading-post,  —  the  sole  object  which  Weston's  people  had 
in  view,  —  an  unobstructed  view  of  the  harbor's  mouth  was  a 
matter  of  the  first  importance.  The  locality  indicated  by 
Winthrop  was  also  well  adapted  for  plantation  purposes,  inas- 
much as  
the  ground  is  level,  the  ascent  from  the  beach  not  too 
abrupt,  and  fresh  water  must  have  been  easily  obtainable  in 
the  immediate  vicinity. 
Winthrop,  it  will  be  observed,  places  Wessagusset  upon  the 
north  side  of  the  cove,  or  indenture  of  the  shore,  opposite 
the  mouth  of  the  Quincy  River.  This  cove  is  unmistaka- 
bly that  now  called  King's  Cove,  formerly  known  as  Hunt's 
Hill  Cove.     The  point  to  the  north  of  it,  directly  opposite 
 - 55 - 
28  MASSACHUSETTS   HISTORICAL   SOCIETY.  [Nov. 
the  mouth  of  the  Quincy  River,  has  always  been  known  as 
Hunt's  Hill  Point.  Nash,  in  his  sketch  of  Weymouth  (p.  152), 
says  that  — 
"  In  the  early  part  of  the  eighteenth  century  a  company  was  formed 
by  a  number  of  the  prominent  men  of  the  town  for  the  purpose  of  carry- 
ing on  ' a  fishing  trade  to  Cape  Sables,'  and  the  town  granted  to  it  the 
use  of  'so  much  of  Hunt's  Hill,  with  the  lowland  and  beach  adjoining 
at  the  mouth  of  Fore  River,  as  may  be  necessary  for  the  purpose.'  As 
far  as  the  record  shows,  this  was  the  first  joint  stock  company  formed 
in  the  town.     Of  its  history  but  little  is  known." 
Further  on  (p.  155),  he  adds  that,  in  1876," —     - 
"  N.  Porter  Keene  commenced  the  construction  of  vessels  in  Old 
Spain,  near  Hunt's  Hill  ;  and  since  that  time  he  has  built  eleven  ves- 
sels, sail  and  steam,  averaging  a  cost  of  about  $40,000  each.  There  is 
on  the  stocks  at  present  [that  is,  in  1884]  a  large  vessel  intended  for  a 
four-masted  schooner  (since  launched)." 
The  shipyard  referred  to  by  Mr.  Nash  was  abandoned  a 
few  years  since  ;  and  no  traces  of  it  now  remain,  with  the 
exception  of  a  two-story  storehouse  or  workshop,  which  not 
impossibly  may  stand  close  to  the  site  originally  occupied  by 
Weston's  block  house.  In  all  the  early  records  of  the  town 
this  spot  is  included  in  what  is  known  as  "  the  Plain." 
It  is  matter  of  regret  that  Hunt's  Hill,  a  glacial  deposit 
immediately  north  of  King's  Cove,  is  being  removed  to 
supply  material  for  the  filling  of  the  water  park  of  the  city 
of  Boston  now  in  course  of  construction  near  Castle  Island. 
This  hill  apparently  lay  immediately  south  of  the  site  of  the 
Wessagusset  settlement,  and  between  it  and  King's  Cove,  the 
settlement  at  the  foot  of  it  looking  off  toward  the  north.  As 
our  investigations  seemed  to  indicate  that  there  can  be  little  if 
any  doubt  as  to  where  the  original  settlement  was  made  and 
"  the  pale  and  houses  "  stood,  it  is  also  matter  for  regret  that 
the  ground  in  the  immediate  neighborhood  should  not  be  pre- 
served and  set  aside  for  public  uses,  with  a  proper  memorial 
placed  upon  it.  In  view  of  the  fact  that  here  was  the  first 
settlement  within  the  original  colony  of  Massachusetts  Bay; 
that  here  was  the  spot  on  which  Miles  Standish  had  his  mo- 
mentous conflict  with  the  savages,  which  settled  for  half  a 
century  the  question  of  European  ascendency  in  Massachu- 
 - 56 - 
1891.]  REMARKS   BY  MR.    H.   W.   HAYNES.  29 
setts  ;  and  here  also  was  the  point  at  which  the  famous 
Wessagusset  hanging,  which  Butler  made  such  use  of  in  his 
poem  of  "Hudibras"  did  not  occur,  —  all  combining  to  make 
of  it  a  point  of  interest  second  to  hardly  any  other  this  side 
of  Plymouth,  —  the  Legislature  of  the  Commonwealth  not 
impossibly,  and  the  town  of  Weymouth  very  probably,  might, 
if  the  facts  were  now  brought  to  their  notice,  be  induced  to 
take  some  action  to  preserve  it;  but  in  any  event  the  subject 
is  one  which  merits  the  attention  of  this  Society. 
Mr.  Henry  W.  Haynes  said  :  — 
Whoever  carefully  examines  the  traditional  site  assigned  to 
ancient  Wessagusset,  upon  the  elevated  plateau  north  of 
Phillips  Creek,  will  scarcely  fail  to  have  grave  doubts  arise  in 
his  mind  in  regard  to  its  correctness.  None  of  the  essential 
requisites  for  the  location  of  a  settlement  in  a  wilderness  can 
be  found  upon  that  wind-swept,  shelterless  height,  where  no 
source  of  supply  of  drinking-water,  either  from  springs  or 
brooks,  can  be  found  within  any  convenient  distance.  When, 
besides  these  prima  facie  objections,  one  sees  that  this  spot 
possesses  no  suitableness  for  a  trading-post,  either  of  outlook 
or  of  anchorage,  and  that  there  is  not  the  slightest  indication 
visible  that  it  was  ever  occupied  by  man  as  a  place  of  habita- 
tion, he  
can  scarcely  help  feeling  that  the  site  must  be  sought 
for  elsewhere. 
With  these  convictions,  the  evidence  afforded  by  Governor 
Winthrop's  map  lends  striking  confirmation  to  the  complete 
adaptedness  for  the  early  settlement  which  Mr.  Adams  and 
myself  found  the  locality  to  possess  which  we  have  recently 
studied  at  what  is  now  known  as  King's  Cove.  Here  we 
saw  just  the  lie  of  the  land  which  would  naturally  attract  set- 
tlers searching  for  a  home  in  a  new  country,  rising  with  a 
gentle  slope  from  a  curving  beach,  in  a  broad  level  outstretch 
of  deep  soil,  well  open  to  the  sun  upon  the  east,  but  shel- 
tered in  
other  directions  by  higher  ground,  and  having  an 
ample  supply  of  springs  of  water.  Moreover,  it  was  clear, 
as  Mr.  Adams  has  well  explained,  that  this  spot  possessed 
all  the  advantages  for  a  trading-post,  which  the  other 
lacks. 
I    feel    convinced,   accordingly,    that    tradition    has    been 
 - 57 - 
30  MASSACHUSETTS   HISTORICAL   SOCIETY.  [Nov. 
somewhat  at  fault  in  regard  to  the  ancient  locality,  and  that 
it  is  here  at  King's  Cove  that  we  must  really  place  the  site 
of  Wessagusset,  the  oldest  settlement  upon  Massachusetts 
Bay. 
Mr.  William  P.  Upham  spoke  of  the  interest  of  the  Win- 
throp  map,  as  showing  what  was  the  real  site  of  the  first  set- 
tlement at  
Salem,  about  which  there  had  recently  been  some 
question.  The  map  was  in  accordance  with  the  conclusions 
reached  by  the  local  antiquaries,  who  had  been  inclined  to 
doubt  the  statements  which  had  come  down  by  tradition. 
It  was  then  voted  that  the  suggestion  of  Mr.  Adams  for  the 
erection  of  a  permanent  memorial  of  the  Wessagusset  settle- 
ment should  be  referred  to  the  Council. 
Mr.  Charles  C.  Smith  communicated  a  memoir  of  Thomas 
Aspinwall,  and  said  in  substance  :  — 
Shortly  after  the  death  of  our  venerable  associate,  Col. 
Thomas  Aspinwall,  the  Hon.  George  S.  Hillard,  one  of  the 
executors  of  his  will,  was  appointed  to  write  the  customary 
memoir  for  insertion  in  the  Proceedings.  Mr.  Hillard's  im- 
paired health  prevented  his  performing  this  duty  promptly  ; 
and  at  his  death,  in  1879,  nothing  had  been  done.  Accord- 
ingly the  committee  on  memoirs  which  was  appointed  in  the 
following  year  designated  the  late  Rev.  Dr.  Lothrop  to  prepare 
the  memoir  in  the  place  of  Mr.  Hillard.  He  readily  agreed  to 
do  so,  if  he  could  obtain  the  necessar}^  materials  ;  
but  he  failed 
to  find  what  he  wanted,  and  finally  wrote  me  a  humorous  let- 
ter, intimating  that  if  I  would  furnish  the  materials  he  would 
write  the  memoir,  otherwise  he  must  relinquish  the  task. 
The  committee  then  applied  to  Mr.  Deane,  who  undertook  the 
work.  Unfortunately,  however,  Colonel  Aspinwall's  papers, 
or  many  of  them  at  least,  had  been  destroyed  before  his  death, 
and  Mr.  Deane  met  with  the  same  difficulty  which  Dr.  Lothrop 
had  experienced.  Referring  to  this  matter  one  day,  he  said  to 
me,  in  his  pleasant,  half-smiling  way,  "  Mr.  Smith,  I  cannot 
make  bricks  without  straw."  He  wrote  nothing  on  the  sub- 
ject, and  there  are  no  memoranda  relating  to  it  among  his 
papers.  Recently  I  have  come  across  some  materials  which 
supply  in  part  the  want  felt  by  Dr.  Lothrop  and  Mr.  Deane  ; 
and  as  three  persons  to  whom  this  memoir  was  successively 
assigned  have  died,  I  have  thought  best,  with  the  concurrence 
 - 58 - 
1891.]  MEMOIRS   COMMUNICATED.  31 
of  Dr.  Young,  the  other  surviving  member  of  the  committee, 
to  communicate  without  further  delay  the  memoir  herewith 
submitted. 
Mr.  Justin  Winsor  communicated  a  memoir  of  Charles 
Deane  ;  and  Mr.  John  C.  Ropes,  memoirs  of  Francis  W.  Palfrey 
and  Charles  Devens.  Dr.  Samuel  A.  Green  communicated,  in 
behalf  of  the  Hon.  John  E.  Sanford,  who  was  absent  on  account 
of  an  official  engagement,  a  memoir  of  Henry  M.  Dexter. 
 - 59 - 
32  MASSACHUSETTS  HISTOEICAL  SOCIETY.  [Nov. 
MEMOIR 
OF 
COL.  THOMAS  ASPINWALL,   A.M. 
BY  CHAKLES  C.   SMITH. 
Thomas  Aspinwall  was  the  third  son  of  Dr.  William  and 
Susanna  [Gardner]  Aspinwall,  and  was  born  in  Brookline, 
May  28,  1786.  His  father  was  a  prominent  and  skilful  phy- 
sician, and  became  especially  noted  for  his  success  in  the  use 
of  inoculation  as  a  preventive  of  small-pox.  His  maternal 
grandfather,  Isaac  Gardner,  of  Brookline,  was  a  man  of  char- 
acter and  influence,  and  in  company  with  his  friend  and  neigh- 
bor, Dr.  Aspinwall,  left  home  on  hearing  of  the  skirmish  at 
Lexington,  April  19, 1775.  He  was  killed  at  Menotomy  (now 
Arlington)  on  the  retreat  of  the  British  troops  from  Concord.1 
At  an  early  age  Thomas  was  sent  to  school  in  his  native  town, 
and  afterward  to  Leicester  Academy,  where  he  had  on  gradua- 
ting, at  the  age  of  fifteen,  the  introductory  oration.2  In  the 
same  year  he  entered  Harvard  College,  and  graduated  in  1804, 
the  third  scholar  in  a  class  of  sixty-one  members.  His  Com- 
mencement part  
was  the  salutatory  oration,  and  Dr.  Pierce  in 
his  journal  records  that  it  "  was  well  written  and  handsomely 
1  Hudson's  History  of  Lexington,  p.  208,  note. 
2  Fifty-four  years  later,  on  occasion  of  the  seventy-first  anniversary  of  the 
Academy,  Colonel  Aspinwall  visited  Leicester,  and  in  a  short  after-dinner  speech 
gave  some  amusing  reminiscences  of  his  school-boy  days.  "  This  academy, 
I  believe,"  be  said,  "  is  the  only  endowed  seminary  in  the  Commonwealth 
which  is  favored  with  the  privilege  of  including  the  fair  sex  in  the  number  of 
its  pupils;  and  in  my  day  it  had  become  an  established  custom  for  the 
young  ladies  and  gentlemen  to  pair  off  in  long  and  solemn  procession  to  a  shady 
retreat,  called  the  Lovers'  Bower.  To  be  admitted  into  these  excursions  I  cov- 
eted with  an  intensity  of  longing  that  ought  to  have  been  rewarded  with  consent. 
But,  unhappily,  I  was  young.  The  ladies  coolly  looked  down  upon  me,  as  one 
not  yet  come  to  years  of  discretion,  and  were  inexorable;  the  gentlemen,  in  the 
spirit  that  wishes  'no  brother  near  the  throne,'  rigorously  excluded  all  little  ones 
weaker  than  themselves."  —  Festival  at  Leicester  Academy,  pp.  62,  63. 
 - 60 - 
 - 61 - 
 - 62 - 
1891.]  MEMOIR   OF   COL.   THOMAS   ASPINWALL.  33 
performed."  1  Three  years  afterward  he  took  his  Master's 
degree,  and  delivered  the  Latin  valedictory,  which  we  learn 
from  the  same  authority  "was  a  truly  masterly  performance. 
It  was  short,  yet  glanced  upon  every  pertinent  and  interesting 
topic."2 
Meanwhile  he  had  studied  law  with  the  Hon.  William  Sul- 
livan, with  whom  he  was  for  a  short  time  a  partner.  Subse- 
quently he  
opened  an  office  in  his  own  name,  and  continued 
in  practice  until  the  breaking  out  of  the  War  of  1812.  He 
then  gave  up  his  profession,  and  tendering  his  services  to  the 
government,  with  the  advantage  of  some  experience  as  Adju- 
tant of  
the  Independent  Cadets,  he  was  at  once  appointed 
Major  of  the  Ninth  Regiment  of  United  States  Infantry. 
This  regiment,  which  was  mainly  recruited  in  Massachusetts, 
wras  ordered  to  the  northern  frontier,  and  there  served  with 
great  credit.  In  the  repulse  of  the  British  attack  on  Sackett's 
Harbor,  in  May,  1813,  Major  Aspinwall  especially  distin- 
guished himself,  and  for  his  gallantry  in  action  was  brevetted 
Lieutenant-Colonel,  and  afterward  made  Colonel.  Through 
the  campaign  he  was  frequently  in  command  of  the  brigade 
to  which  his  regiment  was  attached  ;  and  in  the  memorable 
sortie  from  Fort  Erie,  Sept.  17,  1814,  he  was  so  severely 
wounded  in  the  left  arm  as  to  render  its  amputation  necessary. 
In  a  letter  to  his  father  written  two  weeks  afterward,  he  said  : 
"  The  General  at  last,  just  as  a  heavy  shower  of  rain  had 
ceased,  ordered  us  to  march.  We  started  immediately,  and 
passed  through  the  wood,  driving  in  their  sharpshooters,  sen- 
tries, and  guards,  until  I  had  arrived  within  twenty  paces  of 
their  breastworks,  where  as  I  was  passing  along  the  front  of 
the  first  platoon  to  give  it  a  concerted  direction  to  the  right, 
I  received  a  musket-shot  above  the  elbow  of  the  left  arm, 
which  completely  carried  away  about  an  inch  and  a  half  of 
the  bone.  I,  of  course,  had  no  further  part  in  the  active  dut}^ 
of  that  day,  which  terminated  in  our  complete  success,  except 
as  to  one  of  their  four  batteries."  And  in  conclusion  he  wrote: 
"After  being  wounded  I  walked  back  to  my  tent,  and  in  about 
an  hour  had  only  one  arm,  —  a  circumstance  which  does  not 
afflict  me,  my  dear  father,  and  must  not  you.  But  let  us  both 
thank  God  that  he  has  so  formed  us  that  you  have  lived  almost 
all  your  life  happy  and  respectable,  notwithstanding  the  loss  of 
i  2  Proceedings,  vol.  v.  p.  169.  2  Ibid.  p.  
172. 
 - 63 - 
34  MASSACHUSETTS   HISTORICAL   SOCIETY.  [Nov. 
an  eye  ;  and  I  may  spend  the  remainder  of  my  life  in  the  same 
manner  with  the  loss  of  a  limb,  of  all  the  most  conveniently 
spared.  I  have  been  so  blessed  hitherto  that  it  would  be  the 
deepest  sin  to  murmur  against  this  dispensation  of  Provi- 
dence." 1  
On  the  reduction  of  the  army  after  the  peace  he 
was  offered  an  important  position  in  the  regular  establishment; 
but  he  preferred  to  enter  the  civil  service,  and  in  May,  1815, 
during  the  recess  of  Congress,  he  was  appointed  Consul  at 
London  by  President  Madison.  The  appointment  was  con- 
firmed at  
the  beginning  of  the  next  session  ; 2  and  Colonel 
Aspinwall  continued  to  hold  the  office  until  he  was  removed 
in  the  summer  of  1853  by  President  Pierce,  —  a  victim  to  that 
pestilential  doctrine  which  sacrifices  the  interests  of  the  coun- 
try to  the  needs  of  a  political  party.  It  is  a  striking  coinci- 
dence that  that  doctrine  was  first  formally  enunciated  by  a 
statesman  who  was  also  for  a  short  time  a  student  at  Leicester 
Academy,  and  who  was  Secretary  of  State  at  the  time  of  Colo- 
nel Aspinwall's  removal.3 
Colonel  Aspinwall  had  discharged  the  duties  of  his  office  in 
a  manner  honorable  to  himself  and  useful  to  his  country  ;  and 
he  sorely  felt  his  removal,  to  which  he  referred  even  in  his  last 
will  executed  many  years  afterward.  Before  leaving  London 
a  service  of  plate  was  presented  to  him,  with  a  letter  signed 
by  Baring  Brothers  &  Co.,  George  Peabody,  N.  M.  Roths- 
child &  
Sons,  and  more  than  thirty  other  firms  or  individuals, 
who  had  been  in  a  position  to  recognize  his  fidelity  in  office  and 
his  high  personal  character.  In  their  letter,  dated  Decem- 
ber, 1853,  they  say:  "We  avail  ourselves  of  the  occasion  to 
tender  you  our  best  thanks  for  your  uniform  courtesy  and 
kindness  in  all  our  intercourse  with  you  during  the  long  period 
in  which  you  have  filled  the  important  post  of  Consul-General 
in  this  city.  You  have  administered  the  arduous  duties  of 
your  office  with  dignity,  ability,  and  integrity,  unimpeached  ; 
1  History  of  Norfolk  County,  p.  865. 
2  Niles's  Register,  vol.  ix.  p.  371. 
8  "  In  1802  four  young  men  came  here  from  Sturbridge  to  fit  for  college. 
Their  names  were  William  L.  Marcy,  Jacob  Corey,  Josiah  J.  Fiske,  and  Ben- 
jamin Rice.  .  .  .  Marcy  was  a  Jeffersonian  boy,  and  on  one  Fourth  of  July 
indulged  in  a  speech  to  his  fellow-students  which  drew  upon  him  a  reprimand 
from  his  teacher.  His  high  spirit  would  not  brook  the  indignity;  and  the  four 
boys  left  Leicester  for  Woodstock  Academy,  then  just  established.  Thence  in 
due  time  they  entered  Brown  University,  where  they  all  graduated  in  1808." 
—  Leicester  Academy  Centenary,  p.  31. 
 - 64 - 
1891.]  MEMOIR    OF   COL.    THOMAS   ASPINWALL.  35 
you  have  lent  a  willing  and  patient  attention  to  appeals  for  relief, 
in  all  cases  of  distress,  granting  freely  your  counsel  and  your 
money,  inviting  others  to  aid  you  when  needful."  Not  only 
did  he  devote  himself  most  sedulously  to  the  ordinary  routine  of 
his  official  duties,  and  attach  to  himself  a  large  circle  of  friends 
distinguished  in  social  and  public  life  ;  
but  he  took  an  interest 
in  everything  which  could  promote  more  intimate  and  friendly 
relations  between  Great  Britain  and  the  United  States.  On 
its  organization  he  was  made  a  director  in  the  British  and 
American  Steam  Navigation  Company,  —  one  of  the  earliest, 
if  not  the  earliest,  of  the  transatlantic  steamship  companies, 
which  was  established  so  long  ago  as  October,  1836.  The 
company  built,  the  steamers  "British  Queen"  and  li  
Presi- 
dent," the  last  of  which  was  never  heard  of  after  leaving 
New  York,  in  March,  1841,  on  her  return  passage  to  Liver- 
pool. Her  loss  proved  fatal  to  the  company,  which  was  dis- 
solved not  long  afterward.  Colonel  Aspinwall  also  made  all 
the  arrangements  for  the  publication  of  the  English  editions 
of  Mr.  Prescott's  "History  of  Ferdinand  and  Isabella,"  and 
other  works  by  the  same  author.  In  a  letter  from  Dresden, 
Feb.  8,  1836,  to  Mr.  Prescott,  Mr.  Ticknor  wrote,  with  refer- 
ence to  this  matter  :  "  I  remain  by  the  suggestion  in  my 
last  letter,  that  Colonel  Aspinwall  is  the  man  to  take  charge 
of  it,  provided  neither  you  nor  I  should  be  in  London  ; 
although  if  both  of  us  were  on  the  spot,  he  would  be  the 
man  with  whom  we  should  earliest  advise  in  all  publishing 
arrangements.  His  place  as  our  Consul-General  in  London 
is  something  in  talking  to  publishers.  His  character,  prompt, 
business-like,  firm,  and  honorable,  is  still  more."  And  in  his 
Life  of  Prescott  Mr.  Ticknor  adds  that  Colonel  Aspinwall 
"  at  once  undertook  in  the  pleasantest  manner  the  pleasant 
commission  which  was  offered  him,  and  a  mutual  regard 
was  the  consequence  of  the  connection  then  formed,  which 
was  never  afterwards  broken  or  impaired  ;  so  much  was 
there  in  common  between  the  characters  of  the  two  high- 
minded  and  cultivated  men."1  At  an  earlier  period  than  this 
Colonel  Aspinwall  had  rendered  similar  services  to  Washing- 
ton Irving  and  to  others,  as  he  continued  to  do  long  after- 
ward. Irving's  correspondence  in  his  "  Life  and  Letters  " 
contains  repeated  references  to  the  negotiations  in  his  behalf 
i  Ticknor's  Life  of  Prescott,  p.  108. 
1128359 
 - 65 - 
36  MASSACHUSETTS  HISTORICAL   SOCIETY.  [Nov. 
carried  on  by  Colonel  Aspinwall  ;  and  in  his  remarks  before 
this  Society  after  the  death  of  Irving,  Colonel  Aspinwall  him- 
self said  :  u  Such  of  the  works  of  Washington  Irving  as 
were  written  out  of  England  after  1824  were  confided  to  my 
disposal,  and  published  under  contracts  made  by  me  as  his 
agent."  2 
While  resident  in  England,  Colonel  Aspinwall  was  elected, 
in  June,  1833,  a  Corresponding  Member  of  the  Historical  So- 
ciety ;  
and  a  few  years  later  he  became  a  member  of  the  Royal 
Society  of  Northern  Antiquaries  at  Copenhagen.  After  his 
return  he  was  elected,  in  April,  1855,  a  Resident  Member  of 
the  Historical  Society.  He  at  once  took  an  active  and  efficient 
part  in  the  work  of  the  Society.  From  1857  to  1859  he  was  a 
member  of  the  Standing  Committee,  and  again  from  1860  to 
1862.  From  the  latter  year  to  1870  he  was  one  of  the  Vice- 
Presidents.  He  served  also  on  the  Committees  for  publishing 
the  fourth,  ninth,  and  tenth  volumes  of  the  Fourth  Series  of 
Collections.  The  last  two  volumes  were  made  up  of  original 
papers  from  the  very  rich  collection  gathered  by  him  in  Lon- 
don. His  editorial  labors  were  performed  under  great  diffi- 
culties, from  the  loss  of  his  arm,  and  when  he  was  in  his 
eighty-fifth  year  ;  
but  to  the  papers  relating  to  Virginia  he 
added  long  and  elaborate  notes,  discussing  many  of  the  obscure 
points  in  the  early  history  of  Virginia.  The  papers  there 
printed,  and  many  of  the  rarest  volumes  obtained  by  Colonel 
Aspinwall  during  his  long  residence  abroad,  afterward  passed 
into  the  possession  of  the  late  Samuel  L.  M.  Barlow,  of  New 
York.2 
Among  the  most  important  of  his  communications  to  the 
Society  were  his  remarks  on  the  death  of  Washington  Irving, 
at  the  meeting  in  December,  1859  ;  on  the  death  of  the  Hon. 
William  Appleton,  at  the  meeting  in  March,  1862  ;  on  the 
death  of  Gen.  Winfield  Scott,  at  the  meeting  in  June,  1866  ; 
and  in  the  following  January,  on  the  gift  to  the  Society  of  the 
Peabody  Fund.  At  the  meeting  in  May,  1860,  he  communi- 
cated some  remarks  on  the  Narragansett  Patent  of  Dec.  10, 
1643,  tending  to  show  that  it  was  never  completed.  A  year 
or  two  afterward  a  contemporaneous  copy  of  the  same  docu- 
1  Proceedings,  vol.  iv.  p.  406. 
2  For  an  account  of  the  Aspinwall-Barlow  Library,  by  Hon.  Mellen  Cham- 
berlain, see 2  Proceedings,  vol.  v.  pp.  313-320. 
 - 66 - 
1891.]  MEMOIR   OF   COL.    THOMAS   ASPINWALL.  37 
ment  was  found  among  the  Winthrop  Papers;  and  at  the 
meeting  in  February,  1862,  Mr.  Deane  read  a  short  and  very 
able  paper  taking  the  opposite  ground.  A  few  months  later  — 
in  June,  1862  —  Colonel  Aspinwall  communicated  a  long  and 
elaborate  reply  to  Mr.  Deane's  strictures,  reaffirming  the  opin- 
ion previously  expressed  by  him,  and  bringing  forward  new 
arguments  against  the  validity  of  the  Patent.  This  communi- 
cation was  separately  printed,  with  a  few  prefatory  remarks  ; 
and  a  second  edition  was  published  at  Providence,  Rhode 
Island,  in  1865.  In  March,  1863,  Colonel  Aspinwall  com- 
municated another  paper,  also  of  a  controversial  character, 
and  marked  by  great  ability,  in  which  he  maintained  that 
William  Vassall,  one  of  the  Assistants  named  in  the  Colony 
Charter,  was  "no  Factionist." 
He  continued  in  the  mean  time  to  take  an  active  interest 
in  the  commercial  prosperity  of  Boston.  In  1857  he  was  cho- 
sen a  
Director  of  the  Boston  Board  of  Trade,  and  for  the  next 
two  years  he  was  one  of  the  Vice-Presidents.  He  was  chair- 
man of a  committee  to  consider  how  greater  facility  of  trans- 
atlantic intercourse  could  be  secured  by  means  of  a  railroad 
through  the  British  Maritime  Provinces.  But  his  increasing 
years  soon  afterward  led  him  to  withdraw  from  active  partici- 
pation in  
business  affairs,  and  to  devote  himself  more  to  his 
books  and  his  friends. 
Colonel  Aspinwall  retained  his  physical  and  intellectual 
powers  unimpaired  until  about  three  years  before  his  death, 
when  he  had  a  severe  attack  of  paralysis.  From  this  he 
never  recovered.  "  He  might  still  be  seen,  even  to  the  last 
week  of  his  life,"  said  the  Hon.  Robert  C.  Winthrop,  in  an- 
nouncing his  
death  at  the  meeting  of  this  Society,  "  taking  his 
occasional  exercise,  and  threading  his  way  along  our  crowded 
sidewalks  with  a  sturdy  step  and  something  of  the  old  martial 
air,  but  recognizing  no  one  out  of  his  own  family,  and  re- 
membering little  or  nothing  of  matters  or  things,  either  recent 
or  remote."2  He  died  in  Boston,  August  11,  1876,  in  his 
ninety-first  year,  and  was  buried  in  the  Walnut  Hill  Cemetery 
in  his  native  town. 
He  was  married  at  Lancaster,  Feb.  13, 1814,  to  Louise  Eliza- 
beth Poignand,  who,  as  the  name  indicates,  was  of  French 
descent,  both  of  her  parents  having  been  born  in  the  island  of 
1  Proceedings,  vol.  xv.  pp.  2,  3. 
 - 67 - 
38  MASSACHUSETTS   HISTOEICAL   SOCIETY.  [Nov. 
Jersey.1  By  this  marriage  he  had  seven  children,  of  whom 
only  two,  with  their  mother,  were  living  at  his  death.  In 
personal  appearance  he  was  noticeably  erect  and  dignified, 
with  a  military  bearing  even  in  old  age  ;  and  in  the  photo- 
graphic group  of  members  taken  at  Brookline  in  1869  he  is 
one  of  the  most  conspicuous  figures.  He  was  a  man  of  strong 
and  settled  convictions,  which  he  expressed  with  clearness 
and  force.  He  had  great  knowledge  of  men,  and  his  knowl- 
edge of  
books  was  extensive  and  accurate.  In  the  investiga- 
tion of  
historical  questions  he  was  thorough  and  careful,  and 
on  the  history  of  the  discovery  and  colonization  of  America  he 
was  a  recognized  authority.  The  remarks  of  our  late  associate 
Mr.  William  Amory  before  the  Wednesday  Evening  Club  will 
find  a  ready  response  from  all  who  knew  Colonel  Aspinwall  as 
a  member  of  this  Society  :  "  Every  one  remembers  his  erect, 
fine  person,  his  handsome  face,  his  manly  bearing,  his  aristo- 
cratic air,  
the  dignity  and  urbanity  of  his  manners,  the  gen- 
uine cordiality  and  kindness  of  his  heart,  the  intelligence  and 
cultivation  of  his  mind,  his  uncomplaining  fortitude  in  strug- 
gling with  disease  and  the  infirmities  of  age,  and  at  last  his 
humble  resignation  and  submission  to  the  Divine  Will."  2 
1  Nourse's  Lancaster  Records,  pp.  169,  436. 
2  Centennial  Celebration  of  the  Wednesday  Evening  Club,  p.  97.  Colonel 
Aspinwall  was  elected  a  member  of  the  Club  in  1856,  so  that  his  membership 
in  it  covered  a  period  of  twenty  years. 
 - 68 - 
 - 69 - 
,  
.tBnaton. 
 - 70 - 
1891.]  MEMOIR   OF   FRANCIS   WINTHROP   PALFREY.  39 
MEMOIR 
OF 
FRANCIS  WINTHROP  PALFREY,  A.M. 
BY  JOHN  C.   ROPES. 
Francis  Winthrop  Palfrey  was  born  in  Boston  on  April 
11,  1831.  He  was  the  second  son  of  John  Gorham  Pal- 
frey, D.D.,  LL.D.,  well  known  as  the  historian  of  New  Eng- 
land, and  of  Mary  Ann  (Hammond)  Palfrey,  his  wife.  His 
great-grandfather  was  Col.  William  Palfrey,  aide-de-camp  to 
General  Washington,  Paymaster-General  of  the  army  in  the 
Revolution,  and  appointed,  in  1780,  by  the  unanimous  vote  of 
Congress,  Consul-General  of  the  United  States  in  France. 
He  was  educated  mainly  at  the  Boston  Latin  School,  and 
entered  Harvard  College  in  1847,  where  he  graduated  with 
high  rank  in  1851.  He  studied  law  partly  in  the  Harvard 
Law  School,  where  he  received  the  degree  of  LL.B.  in  1853, 
and  partly  in  the  office  of  the  late  George  S.  Hillarcl,  and  was 
admitted  to  the  bar  in  September,  1854.  He  practised  law  in 
Boston  till  the  breaking  out  of  the  war. 
He  was  one  of  the  first  to  tender  his  services  to  the  Gov- 
ernment, and  served  as  Second  Lieutenant  in  the  Fourth  Bat- 
talion of  
the  Massachusetts  Volunteer  Militia  in  April,  1861. 
When  the  Twentieth  Regiment  was  formed  under  the  lead  of 
Col.  William  Raymond  Lee,  Palfrey  was  commissioned  its 
Lieutenant-Colonel  ;  and  he  left  the  State  with  this  gallant 
command  early  in  September  of  the  same  year. 
He  was  not  with  those  companies  of  his  regiment  which 
crossed  the  Potomac  on  the  21st  of  October,  and  took  an  hon- 
orable part  
in  the  obstinately  fought  but  unfortunate  battle  of 
Ball's  Bluff;  but  the  capture  by  the  enemy  of  Colonel  Lee 
and  Major  Revere  left  him  the  only  field-officer  of  the  bat- 
talion, and  necessarily  imposed  upon  him  an  unusual  amount 
 - 71 - 
40  MASSACHUSETTS   HISTORICAL   SOCIETY.  [Nov. 
of  care  and  responsibility.  The  exceptional  duties  arising 
from  this  state  of  affairs  he  continued  to  perform  to  the  entire 
satisfaction  of  his  command  until  the  spring  of  the  next  year, 
when  Lee,  having  been  exchanged,  as  were  the  others,  resumed 
control. 
Palfrey  shared  with  his  regiment  the  hardships  and  dangers 
of  the  Peninsular  Campaign.  He  was  at  the  siege  of  Yorktown, 
the  battle  of  Fair  Oaks,  the  series  of  actions  known  as  the 
Seven  Days'  Battles,  commencing  for  the  regiment  with  Peach 
Orchard,  and  terminating  with  Malvern  Hill.  In  all  these 
engagements  the  Twentieth  Regiment  distinguished  itself, 
among  many  fine  organizations,  for  its  steadiness,  bravery,  and 
discipline  ;  and  Palfrey  showed  himself  a  gallant  and  skilful 
officer.  He  commanded  the  regiment  for  some  hours  in  the 
bloody  action  at  Nelson's  Farm,  —  Colonel  Lee  having  been 
intrusted  with  the  charge  of  a  part  of  the  brigade,  —  and  he 
handled  his  men  with  entire  success. 
In  the  terrible  battle  of  Antietam,  on  the  17th  of  Septem- 
ber, 1862,  the  Twentieth,  under  command  of  Colonel  Lee, 
was  in  the  hottest  of  the  action.  It  formed  a  part  of  Dana's 
Brigade  of  Sedgwick's  Division  of  Sumner's  (Second)  Corps. 
This  division  —  as  fine  a  body  of  troops  as  there  was  in  the 
army  —  was  advanced  under  the  personal  direction  of  Sumner 
himself,  with  the  expectation  that  it  would  bear  down  every- 
thing before  it.  Unfortunately,  the  gallant  veteran  neglected 
the  usual  precautions,  and  exposed  the  left  flank  of  his  com- 
mand to  an  enemy  who  were  always  prompt  to  make  the 
most  of  every  blunder  of  their  adversaries.  The  three  brigades 
composing  the  division,  soon  after  entering  the  enemy's  woods, 
were  subjected  to  a  withering  flank  fire,  and  in  spite  of  all 
efforts  to  change  front  and  meet  this  unexpected  foe,  were 
thrown  into  disorder  and  very  roughly  handled.  Sedgwick, 
who  commanded  the  division,  and  Dana,  who  commanded  the 
brigade,  were  both  wounded.  The  Twentieth  suffered  se- 
verely. Palfrey,  Holmes,  Hallowell,  and  other  officers  were 
struck  down.  Palfrey,  in  fact,  remained  in  the  enemy's  lines 
until  they  fell  back  on  the  19th  across  the  Potomac.  He  was 
very  badly  hurt.  His  left  arm  was  shattered  by  a  canister 
shot,  and  more  than  one  operation  had  to  be  resorted  to.  His 
arm  was  saved,  but  his  health  never  recovered  from  this  seri- 
ous shock.     Nor  was  he  ever  able  to  resume  his  post  in  the 
 - 72 - 
1891.]  MEMOIR   OF  FRANCIS   WINTHEOP  PALFREY.  41 
field,  although  on  Dec.  18,  1862,  when  Lee's  health  compelled 
him  to  leave  the  service,  Palfrey  was  commissioned  Colonel 
of  the  regiment.  The  Government  recognized  his  desert  by 
granting  to  him  the  brevet  rank  of  Brigadier-General  of  Vol- 
unteers for  
gallant  conduct  at  the  battle  of  Antietam  and  for 
meritorious  services  during  the  war,  to  date  from  March  13, 
1865. 
Although  General  Palfrey's  military  career  entailed  much 
suffering  upon  him,  and  undoubtedly  impaired  his  health  and 
shortened  his  days,  yet  those  who  knew  him  well  know  that 
it  was  to  him  by  far  the  most  interesting  and  indispensable  (if 
I  may  use  the  word  in  this  connection)  part  of  his  life.  He 
was  proud  of  having  trodden  in  the  footsteps  of  his  Revolu- 
tionary ancestor.  A  member  of  the  Society  of  the  Cincinnati 
himself  by  virtue  of  this  descent,  he  was  glad  that  in  a  like 
emergency  he  had  taken  his  place  in  the  armies  of  his  country, 
and  had  unhesitatingly  stepped  forward  into  the  thickest  of 
the  fight.  He  prized  this  part  of  his  life  dearly,  and  he  was 
right  in  so  doing.  He,  who  as  a  young  man  before  the  war 
had  been  among  the  gayest  and  the  most  active  in  every 
social  diversion,  took  no  little  satisfaction  in  the  recollection 
that  he  had  given  himself  as  unreservedly  to  the  hardships 
and  the  perils  of  a  soldier's  life  as  any  man  could  do. 
As  an  officer,  Colonel  Palfrey  was  most  conscientious  and 
careful  in  the  discharge  of  his  manifold  duties.  He  was  by 
nature  a  very  just  man,  and  he  was  a  strict,  though  not  a 
severe,  disciplinarian.  He  was  devoted  to  the  regiment,  — 
to  its  welfare,  its  interests,  its  attainments,  its  performance  of 
duty.  Always  loyal  to  the  gallant  veteran  who  first  inspired 
this  stanch  and  steady  command  with  the  true  soldiery  aims 
and  spirit,  he  faithfully  carried  out  in  his  administration  of 
the  regiment  the  fine  and  lofty  conception  of  military  duty 
which  all  rightly  felt  was  given  by  Colonel  Lee.  Palfrey  was 
a  brave,  capable,  and  successful  officer.  He  held,  to  be  sure, 
no  high  command.  The  services  of  a  regimental  field-officer, 
even  if  he  command  the  regiment,  —  which  Palfrey  did  not, 
except  for  a  brief  period  on  one  occasion,  as  has  been  noticed 
above,  —  rarely  are  conspicuous  ;  but  his  were  faithful  and 
gallant  services,  rendered  to  his  country  from  the  highest  mo- 
tives, and  crowned  with  an  honorable  wound. 
His  interest  in  the  fortunes  of  his  old  command  and  in  its 
6 
 - 73 - 
42  MASSACHUSETTS   HISTORICAL   SOCIETY.  [Nov. 
officers  and  men  suffered  no  abatement  by  reason  of  his  en- 
forced withdrawal  from  active  connection  with  it.  It  was  to 
him  that  all  his  comrades  went  for  encouragement  and  sym- 
pathy when  they  came  home  on  leave;  it  was  to  his  office 
that  the  needy  soldier  naturally  turned  for  help  and  assistance. 
It  was  largely  to  him  that  the  association  of  the  officers  of  the 
regiment  owed  its  existence,  and  that  the  funds  were  raised 
for  a  commemorative  monument. 
Nor  did  his  interest  stop  here.  It  was  he  who  wrote  the 
admirable  sketch  of  the  life  and  services  of  Major  Henry  Liver- 
more  Abbott  of  the  Twentieth  Regiment,  who  fell  at  the  battle 
of  the  Wilderness,  May  6,  1864  ;  and  it  is  also  to  his  pen  that 
we  owe  one  of  the  best,  if  not  the  best,  military  memoir  that 
the  war  has  added  to  our  literature,  —  that  of  Gen.  William 
Francis  Bartlett,  once  a  Captain  in  the  Twentieth,  published 
in  1878. 
General  Palfrey  took  a  strong  interest  in  the  militia,  and  he 
realized  fully  how  important  it  was  that  the  veterans  of  the 
Civil  War  should  vigorously  apply  themselves  to  the  task  of 
raising  its  standard  of  efficiency.  His  great-grandfather  had 
been  a  private  in  the  Boston  Cadets,  and  with  this  ancient  and 
famous  corps  General  Palfrey  associated  himself.  On  Dec. 
27,  1870,  he  was  commissioned  Lieutenant-Colonel  command- 
ing the  First  Company  of  Cadets,  as  the  organization  was  then 
called.  This  post  he  held  till  July  28, 1873,  when  he  resigned 
on  account  of  his  health.  During  this  comparatively  brief 
period  he  did  much  to  improve  the  discipline  and  efficiency  of 
the  corps. 
As  a  young  man  at  school  and  college,  he  had  shown  great 
zeal  and  aptitude  in  all  his  studies.  His  desire  for  knowledge 
was  great  ;  
his  determination  to  acquire  mental  strength  and 
discipline  was  even  greater.  He  was  endowed  by  nature  with 
vigorous  health,  with  great  energy  and  vitality.  He  mastered 
without  difficulty  the  usual  studies,  taking  high  rank  in  all,  or 
nearly  all ;  
but  to  Greek  he  especially  devoted  himself,  and  he 
kept  up  an  intimate  acquaintance  with  this  language  to  the 
end  of  his  life.     He  was  always  a  scholarly  man. 
In  later  life  he  was  naturally  drawn  to  a  study  of  military 
events,  and  specially  to  those  in  which  he  had  himself  partici- 
pated. He  devoted  not  a  little  time  to  the  art  of  war  and  to 
military  history.    He  wrote,  in  1882,  one  of  the  most  valuable 
 - 74 - 
1891.]  MEMOIR   OF   FRANCIS   WINTHROP   PALFREY.  4o 
of  the  series  of  books  on  the  Civil  War,  published  by  the  Scrib- 
ners,  —  that  on  Antietam  and  Fredericksburg.  He  contributed 
for  the  Military  Historical  Society  of  Massachusetts,  of  which 
he  was  for  some  years  president,  several  very  important  papers 
on  the  Peninsular  Campaign  and  the  battle  of  Antietam.  He 
wrote  the  article  on  the  work  of  the  city  of  Boston  in  the  war, 
in  the  "  Memorial  History  of  Boston,"  —  an  article  in  which 
he  did  not  hesitate  to  state  some  unpalatable  facts.  In  truth, 
he  was  never  able  to  play  fast  and  loose  with  facts.  He  had 
a  stern  and  high  standard  of  veracity,  and  a  strong  and  clear 
conscience.  All  his  historical  work,  therefore,  was  faithfully 
and  honestly  done.  His  statements  can  be  thoroughly  relied 
upon.  His  treatment  of  a  subject  was  always  adequate  and 
effective.  His  style  was  that  of  a  cultivated  man  and  practised 
writer,  —  lucid,  elegant,  attractive  ;  and  there  are  in  all  his 
works  many  passages  of  striking  force. 
In  the  case  of  but  few  of  the  survivors  of  the  war  did  its 
harsh  experiences  effect  such  a  complete  and  permanent 
change  in  the  whole  attitude  and  conduct  of  life  as  in  the  case 
of  the  subject  of  this  memoir.  From  a  state  of  high  health 
and  vigor,  where  body  and  mind  alike  demanded  and  enjoyed 
active  exertion  and  strenuous  effort,  Palfrey  found  himself 
relegated  to  the  ranks  of  the  infirm.  He  who  had  been  among 
the  foremost  in  work  and  play  was  now  obliged  to  husband 
his  resources,  and  to  combat  pain  and  weakness.  Nor  did 
time  bring  any  relief  to  him.  From  the  terrible  day  of  An- 
tietam his  life  was  a  long  struggle  against  ill  health.  But  it 
was  manfully  kept  up  to  the  very  last.  Though  he  was  never 
strong,  he  practised  law  for  years  after  the  war.  Toward  the 
end  he  gave  it  up  ;  
he  could  no  longer  bear  the  exertion.  He 
was  obliged  from  time  to  time  to  fly  to  foreign  countries  for 
rest  and  change  of  air  and  scene  ;  and  his  literary  occupations, 
which  he  would  so  gladly  have  made  regular  and  consecutive, 
were  sadly  interfered  with  by  increasing  infirmity.  He  did, 
however,  some  excellent  work  on  his  father's  "  History  of  New 
England"  ;  and  the  fifth  volume  is  edited  by  him.  We  in  this 
Society  have  good  cause  to  regret  these  hindrances  to  our 
associate's  activities,  for  otherwise  one  may  be  sure  that  he 
would  have  made  many  a  valuable  contribution  to  our  papers. 
General  Palfrey  was  a  man  of  many  friends.  He  was,  per- 
haps, not  an  easy  person  to  approach  for  those  who  did  not 
 - 75 - 
44  MASSACHUSETTS  HISTORICAL  SOCIETY.  [Nov. 
know  him  well  ;  
but  lie  was  greatly  valued  and  trusted  by 
those  whom  he  had  taken  into  his  confidence,  and  their 
attachment  to  him  was  of  the  strongest  and  warmest. 
He  died  at  Cannes,  France,  after  a  long  illness,  on  Dec.  5, 
1889.  He  left  a  wife,  Louisa  Caroline,  daughter  of  the  late 
Sidney  Bartlett,  to  whom  he  was  married  on  March  29,  1865, 
and  three  daughters. 
 - 76 - 
1891.1  MEMOIR  OF  CHARLES   DEANE.  45 
MEMOIR 
OF 
CHAKLES  DEANE,  LL.D.1 
BY  JUSTIN  WINSOR. 
In  February,  1865,  just  after  he  had  retired  from  business 
and  when  he  was  fifty-two  years  old,  Mr.  Deane  wrote  a  brief 
sketch  of  the  earlier  part  of  his  life,  and  brought  the  narrative 
down  to  a  time  when  he  had  already  formed  those  acquaint- 
ances which  caused  a  good  part  of  the  enjoyments  attending 
his  less  active  but  riper  years.  With  this  acquaintance  broad- 
ening year  
by  year  and  bringing  within  his  sympathies  and  in- 
terests many  of  the  foremost  historical  scholars  of  his  day,  he 
began  to  cultivate  habits  already  formed  of  epistolary  inter- 
course ;  
and  as  his  fame  as  an  exact  student  of  American  his- 
tory grew,  he  was  more  and  more  sought  for  his  opinions  and 
counsel  on  historical  questions.  This  as  well  as  his  friend- 
ships fostered  a  taste  for  correspondence  ;  and  the  large  mass 
of  letters,  full  of  discussion  and  inquiry  concerning  points  and 
phases  of  our  history,  which  he  left  behind  him,  would  afford 
matter  for  an  interesting  biography  far  more  extensive  than  it 
is  customary  to  insert  in  the  Proceedings  of  our  Society.  To 
round  out  the  proportions  of  this  life,  so  richly  endowed  in  all 
that  interests  the  lover  of  American  history,  one  would  have 
also  to  go  through  his  abundant  and  extraordinary  library  of 
nearly  thirteen  thousand  volumes  to  find  the  minutes  of  his  re- 
searches which  he  scattered  so  plentifully  on  fly-leaves  and  mar- 
gins, and  to  discover  the  letters,  memoranda,  and  scraps  which 
he  had  laid  between  the  leaves  of  his  books.  He  rarely  kept 
a  perfect  copy  of  his  own  letters,  and  made  no  use  of  press- 
1  The  engraving  accompanying  this  memoir  follows  a  photograph  taken  in 
Toronto  in  May,  1875. 
 - 77 - 
46  MASSACHUSETTS   HISTORICAL   SOCIETY.  [Nov. 
copying  appliances,  and  the  biographer  would  have  to  recover 
his  letters  from  his  correspondents.  But  he  often  preserved  his 
first  drafts  and  the  notes  upon  which  his  letters  were  based, 
and  they  will  be  found  in  his  books  or  laid  within  the  folds  of 
the  letters  he  received.  I  should  judge  that  he  rarely  de- 
stroyed a  
letter  ;  and  the  files  which  bear  the  names  of  C.  F. 
Adams,  Isaac  Arnold,  George  Bancroft,  John  Russell  Bartlett, 
J.  Carson  Brevoort,  George  Brinley,  John  Carter  Brown,  Rich- 
ard H.  Dana,  Henry  B.  Dawson,  Henry  M.  Dexter,  Samuel  G. 
Drake,  Edward  Everett,  Charles  Folsom,  Peter  Force,  Richard 
Frothingham,  William  Gammel,  George  W.  Greene,  H.  B. 
Grigsby,  Samuel  F.  Haven,  Joseph  Hunter,  J.  G.  Kohl,  James 
Lenox,  George  Livermore,  H.  W.  Longfellow,  Samuel  K. 
Lothrop,  J.  R.  Lowell,  W.  P.  Lunt,  R.  H.  Major,  Brantz 
Mayer,  J.  L.  Motley,  J.  G.  Palfrey,  Joel  Parker,  Theophilus 
Parsons,  Josiah  Quincy,  Chandler  Robbins,  Lorenzo  Sabine, 
Stephen  Salisbury,  James  Savage,  N.  B.  ShurtlefT,  Jared  Sparks, 
Henry  Stevens,  George  Ticknor,  John  Waddington,  Emory 
Washburn,  William  Willis,  Leonard  Woods,  Thomas  H. 
Wynne,  —  to  say  nothing  of  those  among  the  living,  —  testify 
to  the  faithfulness  of  mutual  intercourse.  All  this  material 
must  be  left  for  some  one  who  may  be  prompted  to  be  the  biog- 
rapher of  
one  who  held  hardly  a  second  place  to  any  among  us, 
as  a  historical  student,  as  distinct  from  those  historical  writers 
who  have  associated  their  names  with  prolonged  works.  For 
the  present  purpose  there  will  be  enough  ground  to  cover,  if 
the  story  of  his  life  be  confined  in  the  main  to  the  printed 
memorials  of  its  literary  activity. 
But  in  the  first  place  we  may  learn  from  the  brief  autobio- 
graphic fragment  already  referred  to,  the  significance  of  his 
earlier  years.     He  says  :  — 
"I  was  born  in  Biddeford,  in  the  State  of  Maine,  on  the  Saco  River, 
Nov.  10,  1813.  My  father,  Dr.  Ezra  Deane,  was  descended  from 
Walter  Deane,  who  with  his  brother  John  came  from  Chard,  near 
Taunton  in  England,  and  settled  in  Taunton,  Massachusetts,  then  in 
Plymouth  Colony.  My  father  was  born  in  Connecticut,  and  after  get- 
ting his  profession  of  a  physician,  he  removed  to  Maine,  and  lived  in 
different  places  before  he  settled  in  Biddeford.  There  his  first  wife 
died.  She  was  a  daughter  of  the  Rev.  Paul  Coffin,  S.T.D.,  of  Buxton, 
Maine.  My  father  afterwards  married  a  daughter  (my  mother)  of  the 
Rev.  Silas  Moody,  of  Arundel,  now  Kennebunkport.    When  old  enough  I 
 - 78 - 
1891.]  MEMOIR   OF   CHARLES   DEANE.  47 
went  to  the  public  school  at  Biddeford.  For  a  few  quarters  I  went  to  the 
Saco  Academy.  I  also  attended  a  classical  school  kept  by  Phineas  Pratt, 
formerly  preceptor  of  the  academy.  [There  was  thought  at  this  time 
of  sending  him  to  Bowdoin  College,  where  an  elder  brother  was  at  this 
time  the  classmate  of  Longfellow.]  When  not  yet  sixteen  years  of  a"e 
I  went  to  Kennebunkport  to  live  with  my  mother's  brother,  Silas  Moody, 
who  kept  there  a  shop,  with  such  variety  of  merchandise  as  is  usual  in 
'  
Country  Stores.'  It  was  my  duty  to  open  the  store  in  the  morning, 
sweep  it  out,  make  the  fire  when  needed,  and  attend  on  customers,  as  I 
was  able.  The  preaching  on  Sunday  was  during  my  stay  there  a  part 
of  the  time  at  the  old  meeting-house  where  my  grandfather  once 
preached,  and  a  part  of  the  time  at  the  meeting-house  in  the  village. 
They  were  two  miles  apart.  The  preaching  was  orthodox,  and  my  uncle 
and  aunts  were  of  that  persuasion.  I  remained  in  Kennebunkport  about 
a  year  and  a  half,  and  then  I  went  into  the  store  of  Mr.  Joseph 
M.  Hayes,  of  Saco  (on  Cutts  or  Factory  Island).  I  was  expected  to 
sleep  in  the  store  with  the  older  clerk,  and  to  take  my  meals  at  Mr. 
Hayes's  house  very  near  the  store.  I  had  duties  to  perform  similar  to 
those  in  my  uncle's  store,  but  I  had  harder  work.  Saco  was  a  flour- 
ishing place,  and  the  York  Company's  establishment  there  gave  us  a 
good  deal  of  business.  I  had  the  privilege  of  spending  Sundays  at  my 
father's  house  and  of  going  to  church  with  the  family.  I  served  Mr. 
Hayes  two  years,  and  with  letters  of  introduction  from  my  employer, 
I  visited  Boston  and  New  York,  in  the  spring  of  1833,  with  a  view 
to  finding  a  situation.  I  had  a  letter  to  Messrs.  Waterston,  Pray, 
&  Co.  of  Boston,  into  whose  employ  I  finally  agreed  to  go ;  and  en- 
tered their  store,  August  23,  1833,  as  a  salesman.  I  was  then  over 
nineteen  years  of  age.  My  situation  was  a  pleasant  one,  and  I  believe 
I  commended  myself  to  my  employers.  My  agreement  for  salary  was 
two  hundred  dollars  a  year  until  I  should  be  twenty-one.  On  arriving 
at  that  age  I  agreed  again  with  them  for  three  years.  In  1840  I  was 
advertised  a  partner  in  the  house  of  Waterston,  Pray,  &  Co.,  and 
the  next  year  was  married  to  Helen,  Mr.  Waterston's  eldest  daughter. 
We  went  to  live  in  a  small  but  pretty  house  in  Edinboro'  Street, 
Boston,  which  I  had  bought. 
"  Soon  after  I  married  I  began  to  add  to  my  slender  stock  of  books. 
I  date  my  love  and  taste  for  books  and  reading,  in  American  history 
especially,  from  a  summer  spent  in  1843  at  Hingham.  I  found  I  did 
not  know  the  distinction  between  the  Old  Colony  and  the  Massachu- 
setts Colony,  and  I  desired  to  inform  myself;  and  soon  after  I  began 
reading  about  our  early  history.  I  found  at  Burnham's  book-shop  a 
copy  of  Morton's  '  
New  England's  Memorial,'  edition  of  1721.  I 
bought  it  and  read  it.  I  also  bought  Young's  '  
Chronicles  of  the 
Pilgrims,'  which  was  published  a  few  years  before  (1841).     I  also 
 - 79 - 
48  MASSACHUSETTS   HISTORICAL   SOCIETY.  [Nov. 
read  Allen's  'American  Biography,'  the  first  edition,  1806.  I  soon 
after  became  acquainted  with  Dr.  Alexander  Young  and  Edward  A. 
Crowninshield,  who  were  much  interested  in  these  early  books,  and 
their  acquaintance  gave  me  new  zest  for  the  buying  of  books.  I  also 
became  acquainted  with  Mr.  Henry  Stevens  of  Vermont,  who  soon 
afterwards  went  to  London,  where  he  has  acted  as  agent  for  American 
book-buyers.  He  has  sent  me  a  great  many  volumes,  though  few  com- 
pared with  what  he  has  sent  to  other  purchasers,  like  Mr.  Brown  of 
Providence,  and  Mr.  Lenox  of  New  York.  My  acquaintance  also  with 
my  friend  George  Livermore  has  formed  a  pleasant  circumstance  in  my 
life.  He  has  [1865]  a  real  taste  for  books,  but  he  does  not  collect  pre- 
cisely in  
my  line.  He  is  interested,  however,  in  literature  generally. 
Dr.  Young  was  also  a  genuine  lover  of  books.  In  1846  I  wrote  an 
article  in  the  '  
Evening  Transcript  '  
on  the  Pilgrims.  It  was  a  notice, 
I  think,  of  a  paper  by  George  Sumner  in  the  '  
Massachusetts  Historical 
Collections,'  and  of  another  in  the  '  
Christian  Examiner.'  In  that 
article  I  spoke  favorably  of  Dr.  Young's  '  
Chronicles  of  the  Pilgrims.' 
Dr.  Young  spoke  to  me  about  my  article,  which  he  appeared  to  like  ; 
and  upon  that  our  acquaintance  was  formed.  He  soon  after  published 
his  '  
Chronicles  of  Massachusetts,'  and  asked  me  to  write  a  notice  of 
it.  I  bought  a  copy  of  the  book,  and  wrote  a  notice  of  two  columns  in 
the  '  
Boston  Courier.'  It  was  not  a  discriminating  critique.  I  was 
probably  not  capable  of  writing  one,  though  I  did  criticise  the  Doctor's 
position  in  calling  Winthrop  the  first  governor  of  Massachusetts,  and  con- 
tended that  Endicott  was  entitled  to  that  honor.  In  a  few  years  (1849) 
I  was  elected  a  member  of  the  Massachusetts  Historical  Society,  nomina- 
ted by  
Dr.  Young.    Mr.  Livermore  was  elected  at  the  following  meeting. 
"  Before  becoming  so  much  interested  in  New  England  history,  I 
had  been  a  good  deal  occupied  with  the  study  of  mental  philosophy, 
or  that  part  of  it  which  relates  to  the  freedom  of  the  will,  and  I  had 
bought  and  read  a  good  many  books  on  the  subject.  I  had  felt  deeply 
that  the  necessitarians  had  the  best  of  the  arguments.  I  used  as  I  had 
the  opportunity  to  converse  with  my  father  on  these  themes.  He  was 
a  believer  in  philosophical  necessity. 
"  I  wrote  occasionally  for  the  newspapers,  and  intended  to  preserve 
such  communications  for  future  reference,  and  indeed  have  for  the  most 
part  done  so.1 
1  These  early  newspaper  articles  by  Mr.  Deane  are  all  preserved,  as  well  as 
later  ones,  in  a  scrap-book  which  he  kept  for  this  purpose.  The  earliest  seems 
to  be  a  paper  on  the  heirs  of  Miles  Standish,  published  March  31,  1846.  The 
article  occasioned  by  George  Sumner's  contribution  was  printed  May  16 ;  that  in 
the  "Courier"  on  Dr.  Young's  book  was  July  8.  Just  after  this  he  made  a  trip 
to  Plymouth,  and  saw  for  the  first  time  the  localities  which  were  to  be  in  the 
future  of  so  much  attraction  to  him.  He  chronicles  this  excursion  in  a  paper 
printed  August  11. 
 - 80 - 
1891. J  MEMOIR   OF   CHARLES   DEANE.  49 
"For  the  past  ten  years  (now  February,  1865)  I  have  had  con- 
siderable   to   
do    in    connection   with    the    volumes   of  the   Historical 
Society." 
Here  the  brief  sketch  ends. 
Mr.  Dearie's  business  career  was  a  successful  one  ;  and  when 
he  left  his  mercantile  connections,  he  did  so  with  the  satis- 
faction of  
having  passed  through  his  commercial  experience 
with  credit  and  an  untarnished  name.  He  privately  printed 
in  1869  a  brief  memoir  of  his  father-in-law,  under  whose  eye 
he  had  made  the  advances  in  his  business  life.  Reverting  to 
the  career  of  his  senior  partners,  he  said:  "In  1814  Messrs. 
Waterston  &  Pray  established  themselves  in  Boston  ;  and  the 
firm,  under  that  name  and  under  the  style  of  Waterston,  Pray, 
&  Co.,  and  subsequently  under  that  of  Waterston,  Deane,  &  Co., 
were  for  many  years  well  known  throughout  the  country, 
first  as  importers  of  dry-goods,  and  afterwards  as  commission 
merchants  for  the  sale  of  domestic  goods."  Mr.  Waterston, 
who  had  emigrated  from  Scotland  in  1806,  retired  from  active 
business  in  1857,  then  in  his  eightieth  year,  leaving  the  bur- 
den of  seniority  in  the  house  upon  his  son-in-law,  till  the 
latter's  final  retirement  in  1861.  Fortune  and  felicity  in  af- 
fairs naturally  pointed  him  out  for  fiduciary  offices  ;  and  our 
late  associate,  the  Hon.  Samuel  C.  Cobb,  who  sat  for  many 
years  with  him  at  the  directors'  board  of  one  of  the  oldest  in- 
surance companies  in  Boston,  bore  testimony,  at  the  meeting 
of  this  Society  which  was  held  to  take  notice  of  Mr.  Deane's 
death,  to  his  great  practical  wisdom  and  keen  discrimination 
in  business  questions,  and  to  the  unswerving  integrity  and  un- 
sullied character  which  were  recognized  by  all  who  came  in 
contact  with  him. 
Mr.  Deane's  studies  early  made  him  familiar  with  the  as- 
pects of  
those  beginnings  of  our  American  history  which  are 
associated  with  the  banks  of  the  James,  in  Virginia,  and  im- 
parted also  so  much  of  interest  to  the  diversified  shores  of  New 
England  ;  and  his  love  of  this  history  never  ceased.  It  is  not 
easy  to  say  whether,  in  the  estimation  of  scholars,  he  identified 
himself  more  with  the  problems  of  the  opening  years  of  the 
Plymouth  than  of  the  Virginia  Colony.  He  naturally  turned 
in  the  first  instance  to  the  oldest  of  the  New  England  settle- 
ments ;  
and  the  scrap-book  which  contains  his  early  newspaper 
7 
 - 81 - 
50  MASSACHUSETTS   HISTORICAL   SOCIETY. 
communications  shows  a  great  preponderance  of            [Nov. 
interest  in 
the  Pilgrim  story. 
Judge  Davis's  edition  of  Morton's  "  Memorial  "  had  been 
one  of  the  books  to  interest  Mr.  Deane  in  the  earliest  years  of 
his  historical  study,  and  he  was  an  eager  attendant  upon  the 
sale  of  the  library  which  that  editor  had  gathered.  It  was  at 
this  sale,  in  1847,  that  he  became  the  possessor  of  a  fragment 
of  the  original  manuscript  of  Prince's  "  Annals,"  which  con- 
tained some  passages  which  that  author  had  omitted  in  the 
printed  book,  and  through  which  he  had  run  his  pen.  The 
interest  in  the  Pilgrim  history  which  had  been  raised  in  Mr. 
Deane  a  few  years  before,  when  he  was  first  introduced  to  the 
story  of  the  founders  of  New  Plymouth  by  perusing  Dr. 
Young's  "  Chronicles  of  the  Pilgrims,"  led  him  to  understand 
at  once  the  significance  of  the  initial  B,  which  Prince  set 
against  such  passages  as  had  been  taken  from  the  then  lost 
manuscript  history  of  the  Colony  by  Governor  Bradford  ;  and 
eager  to  help  restore  as  much  as  possible  the  text  of  that  nar- 
rative, and  to  eke  out  what  had  already  been  done  in  this 
way  by  Dr.  Young  from  other  sources,  he  soon  communicated 
to  the  April  number  (1848)  of  the  "  New  England  Historical 
and  Genealogical  Register  "  two  paragraphs  from  that  frag- 
mentary manuscript  which  Prince  had  cancelled,  and  which  had 
been  copied  from  Bradford.  They  presented  two  heretofore 
unknown  incidents  of  the  memorable  voyage  of  the  "  May- 
flower." One  was  the  hurling  into  the  sea  by  a  lurch  of  the 
ship  of  John  Howland,  one  of  the  passengers,  and  his  being 
saved  by  catching  hold  of  the  top-sail  halliards,  fortunately 
floating  on  the  water  at  the  time  ;  and  the  other  was  the  burial 
at  sea  of  one  of  the  seamen.  The  last  incident  afforded  Mr. 
Deane  the  text,  that  a  mind  of  such  scrupulous  accuracy  as  his 
found  to  have  a  ready  application.  The  statement  that  one 
"  passenger  "  had  died  on  the  voyage  had  easily  been  made, 
with  ordinary  writers,  to  mean  that  but  a  single  life  was  lost; 
and  Mr.  Deane  threw  out  a  pointed  reference  to  the  danger  of 
such  hasty  inferences.  The  incidents  are  both  so  striking 
that  one  can  only  account  for  the  failure  of  Judge  Davis  to 
note  them  in  his  edition  of  Morton  by  supposing  that  he  could 
never  have  read  the  fragment,  which  had  now  passed  under 
the  scrutiny  of  younger  if  not  more  active  eyes.  Mr.  Drake, 
the  editor  of  the  "  Register,"  in  introducing  Mr.  Deane's  com- 
 - 82 - 
1891.]  MEMOIR   OF   CHARLES   DEANE.  51 
munication,  as  from  one  "  who  is  very  curious  in  all  matters 
relating  to  the  beginning  of  New  England,"  goes  on  to  say 
that  this  little  recovery  of  a  paragraph  or  two  of  the  Bradford 
history  only  shows  that  the  recovery  of  the  long-lost  manu- 
script was  still  to  be  desired,  after  all  that  had  been  done 
in  the  endeavors  to  restore  it.  He  and  Mr.  Deane  had  no 
suspicion  that  the  clew  to  such  a  discovery  already  existed.1 
The  next  number  of  the  same  periodical  gives  us  the  earliest 
example  which  we  have  of  Mr.  Deane's  method  of  annotating 
historical  documents.  Its  editor,  Mr.  Drake,  possessed  an 
original  letter  addressed,  in  February,  1631-32,  to  Governor 
Winthrop,  of  Massachusetts  Bay,  by  Governor  Bradford  and 
other  leading  men  of  the  little  colony  at  New  Plymouth. 
This  document  is,  perhaps,  the  most  interesting  for  its  group 
of  signatures,  showing,  besides  Bradford's,  those  of  Alden, 
Standish,  Fuller,  and  Prence,  which  we  associate  with  the 
Pilgrim  history,  and  is  now  in  the  cabinet  of  our  associate, 
Judge  Chamberlain.  It  was  submitted  by  Mr.  Drake  to  his 
new  contributor,  and  was  printed  in  the  July  number  (1848) 
with  his  annotations.  He  had  already  divined  the  mean- 
ing of  some  of  the  significant  passages  in  the  intercourse  of 
the  two  Colonies,  and  with  a  caution  which  characterized  him 
through  all  his  critical  studies,  he  simply  said  that  "  it  has 
sometimes  been  urged  that  the  early  Colony  of  Massachusetts 
was  not  so  scrupulously  regardful  of  the  rights  of  her  weaker 
neighbors  as  a  more  enlightened  and  liberal  policy  would 
seem  to  demand."  In  one  of  these  notes  he  gives  his  testimony 
to  the  laborers  already  distinguished  in  this  field,  to  "  the 
labors  of  Davis,  Baylies,  Young,  and  others,  who  have  brought 
their  united  gifts  of  learning,  diligence,  and  zeal  to  this  work  ; 
but  the  field,"  he  adds,  "is  not  yet  exhausted.  Mr.  Secretary 
Morton,"  he  continues,  "  would  have  deserved  better  of  pos- 
terity had  he  edited  and  published  his  uncle's  [Governor 
Bradford's]  writings,  and  others  which  he  had  in  his  posses- 
sion, instead  of  compiling  his  '  
Memorial  '  from  them.  How- 
ever much  we  may  regret  that  the  author  had  not  been  more 
minute,  [the  '  
Memorial  ']  is  a  work  which  will  never  be 
superseded."  He  then  urges  that  one  —  it  is  suspected  he 
meant  Dr.  Young  —  would  undertake  a  new  edition  of  the 
"  Memorial,"  adding  from  later  stores  to  the  already  rich  anno- 
1  Mr.  Deane  made  some  remarks  on  this  recovered  bit  of  Bradford  in  our 
Proceedings,  April,  1879. 
 - 83 - 
52 
MASSACHUSETTS   HISTORICAL   SOCIETY.  [Nov. 
tations  of  Judge  Davis.     But  there  were  developments  soon  to 
be  manifest  that  would  drive  all  such  wishes  from  his  mind. 
There  had  up  to  this  time  been  no  clew  to  the  region  of 
English  soil  which  had  nursed  the  infant  church  of  that  body 
of  Separatists  who  after  their  sojourn  in  Holland  came  as  pil- 
grims to  
the  New  World.  Mr.  Savage  had  drawn  the  attention 
of  Mr.  Joseph  Hunter,  a  well-known  English  antiquary,  to 
this  problem  in  1842  ;  and  it  was  at  that  time  apparent  that 
the  truth  was  within  reach.  Every  student  of  the  Pilgrim 
history  was  electrified  when,  in  1849,  Mr.  Hunter  announced 
that  he  had  removed  the  obscurity.  Cotton  Mather  had  given 
the  place  of  Bradford's  birth  as  Awsterfield,  but  there  was  no 
such  place  in  the  British  gazetteers.  Hunter,  in  a  tract,  "  The 
Founders  of  New  Plymouth,"  which  he  published  in  1849, 
found  a  record  of  the  birth  of  Bradford  at  Awsterfield  ;  and 
he  set  forth  much  else  respecting  the  relations  of  Scrooby 
and  Austerfield  to  a  little  knot  of  Separatists,  gathered  there- 
abouts, of whom  Brewster  and  Bradford  were  the  principal 
in  interest. 
Presently  Judge  Davis's  estate  was  to  yield  another  sur- 
prise. The  earliest  patent  which  the  Pilgrims  enjoyed,  that 
of  June  1, 1621,  had  so  far  passed  out  of  sight  when  Dr.  Young 
was  engaged  in  his  studies  of  the  Pilgrims,  that  he  could  not 
anywhere  find  it.  Davis  had  noted  its  discovery  early  in  the 
century  in  the  Land  Office  in  Boston,  and  it  was  now  found 
among  some  papers  which  had  once  belonged  to  him.  Mr. 
Deane  procured  a  transcript  of  the  document,  and  prefacing 
it  with  an  explanatory  note,  he  printed  it  in  the  second  vol- 
ume of  the  fourth  series  of  Collections  of  the  Massachusetts 
Historical  Society  in  1854,  of  which  Society  he  had  been  at 
this  time  a  member  for  five  years.  He  also  made  this  little 
reprint  the  first  of  the  numerous  separate  reprints  which  from 
time  to  time  he  made  of  the  papers  which  he  contributed  to 
serial  publications. 
The  little  book  also  marks  a  stage  in  the  history  of  American 
printing,  for  he  caused  four  copies  of  it  to  be  struck  off  on 
vellum,  —  the  earliest  instance  of  book  printing  on  that  material 
in  the  United  States  ;  and  he  caused  also  a  single  copy  to  be 
printed  on  old  paper.  Besides  the  vellum  copy  which  he  kept 
for  himself,  he  gave  one  copy  to  Mr.  James  Lenox,  of  New 
York,  with  whom,  as  long  as  this  gentleman  lived,  Mr.  Deane 
maintained    a    correspondence   on   bibliographical  questions. 
 - 84 - 
1891.]  MEMOIR   OF   CHARLES   DEANE.  53 
Another  he  gave  to  his  friend  Edward  A.  Crownin shield,  who 
was  allied  to  Mr.  Deane  by  sympathies  that  made  them  both 
enthusiasts  in  the  collecting  of  books.  This  copy  was  last 
sold  at  the  Menzies  sale,  for  $51,  and  is  the  only  one  of  the 
four  which  has  come  upon  the  market.  The  fourth  copy  was 
given  by  him  to  perhaps  the  dearest  of  his  friends,  whose 
companionship  was  made  close  by  the  relations  of  neighbor, 
and  whose  character  and  studies  peculiarly  commended  them- 
selves to  
him,  —  George  Livermore. 
Mr.  Deane  had  hardly  placed  this  bibliographical  enterprise 
to  his  own  credit,  when  another  event  characterized  the  same 
year  (1855),  and  served  to  place  his  name  at  once  among 
the  chief  authorities  on  Pilgrim  history.  The  story  of  the 
losing  and  finding  of  the  Bradford  manuscript  has  already 
been  told  by  the  present  writer  in  the  Proceedings  of  this 
Society,  Nov.  10, 1881.  That  paper  was  written  in  close  com- 
munion with  Mr.  Deane,  and  with  dependence  in  part  upon 
papers  lodged  with  him  by  the  two  contestants  for  the  honor 
of  the  recognition.  To  make  the  story  on  this  occasion  brief, 
it  is  enough  to  say  that  the  history  of  Plymouth  Plantation 
by  Governor  Bradford  had  not  been  traced  by  American  stu- 
dents since  it  disappeared  about  the  time  of  the  outbreak  of 
the  American  Revolution.  By  some  means,  not  apparent,  it 
had  found  its  way  into  the  library  of  the  Bishop  of  London  at 
Fulham  Palace.  Here  during  the  preceding  fifteen  or  twenty 
years  it  had  been  seen  and  read  by  two  persons  studying  the 
history  of  Episcopacy  in  America,  and  they  had  each  used  and 
referred  to  it  in  their  publications.  These  were  the  Bishop 
of  Oxford,  who  in  his  "  Protestant  Episcopal  Church  in 
America,"  published  in  1844,  had  cited  it  as  a  "  Manuscript 
History  of  the  Plantation  at  Plymouth,"  and  the  Rev.  J.  S. 
M.  Anderson,  who  in  his  "History  of  the  Colonial  Church," 
published  in  1848,  had  explicitly  referred  to  it  as  written  by 
Governor  Bradford  and  as  having  been  used  by  Prince.  In  a 
most  surprising  way  these  citations  had  escaped  the  attention 
of  every  one  especially  interested  in  Pilgrim  history,  till  the 
late  Mr.  John  Wingate  Thornton  noted  the  reference  in  the 
Bishop  of  Oxford's  book,  and  was  so  struck  with  the  chance 
it  afforded  of  a  clew  to  new  material,  that  he  brought  it  to  the 
notice  of  the  Rev.  John  S.  Barry.  This  gentleman,  then  at 
work  on  his  history  of  Massachusetts,  had  a  more  immediate 
 - 85 - 
54  MASSACHUSETTS   HISTORICAL   SOCIETY.  [Nov. 
incentive  to  study  the  citations,  and  soon  discovered  that  if  the 
manuscript  was  not  Bradford's  —  Anderson's  book  was  not  yet 
in  evidence  —  it  must  be  a  part  of  it,  or  in  whole  or  in  part 
a  copy  of  it.  Mr.  Barry  had  already  had  much  occasion  to 
consult  with  Mr.  Deane  daring  the  progress  of  his  history  ; 
and  in  the  first  volume  of  it,  then  in  press,  he  had  said  of  him 
that  "few  were  more  conversant  with  the  early  history  of 
Massachusetts,"  and  had  spoken  of  "  his  well-stored  library 
as  a  treasure  of  rare  works  on  American  history."  To  no 
one  then  could  the  fortunate  identifier  of  the  extracts  which 
Bishop  Wilberforce  gave  go  with  a  surer  chance  of  recipro- 
cated delight  than  to  Mr.  Deane  ;  and  Mr.  Barry  found  him  in 
a  ready  frame  of  receptivity  and  eager  with  suggestions.  Mr. 
Deane  looked  over  the  evidence  as  Mr.  Barry  presented  it, 
and  could  but  agree  with  his  friend's  conclusions.  He  had 
just  been  designated  by  the  Historical  Society  to  make  up 
and  edit  a  volume  of  their  Collections,  and  was  already  con- 
templating a  
study  of  Pilgrim  history  for  it,  in  a  collection  of 
Winslow  Papers,  when  he  saw  a  better  chance  in  the  editing 
of  the  manuscript  of  Bradford  if  their  hopes  were  realized. 
Mr.  Hunter's  discoveries  respecting  the  English  part  of  the 
Pilgrim  field  had  already  made  him  and  Mr.  Deane  corre- 
spondents, and  
it  happened  that  Mr.  Deane  just  at  this  moment 
was  preparing  to  write  to  this  new  epistolary  acquaintance. 
It  was  a  resolution  easily  grasped  to  make  this  new  suspicion 
the  subject  of  his  letter  to  Mr.  Hunter,  and  to  solicit  his  medi- 
ation with  the  Bishop  of  London  in  order  to  establish  the  fact. 
To  lose  no  time,  he  authorized  Mr.  Hunter  to  secure  a  careful 
transcript,  if  the  manuscript  proved  to  be  Bradford's  ;  and 
to  aid  in  determining  that  point,  an  original  letter  of  Brad- 
ford's was  enclosed  for  comparison  of  handwriting.  At  the 
next  meeting  of  this  Society  (April,  1855)  he  reported  what 
he  had  done  in  their  name,  and  received  their  thanks.  In 
August  he  was  enabled  to  lay  the  copy  which  Mr.  Hunter  had 
sent  before  the  Society,  when  he  at  once  began  his  editorial 
task.  "  I  was  engaged  in  a  conscientious  work,"  he  said  ;  and 
almost  every  Liverpool  packet  for  some  time  carried  over  que- 
ries about  some  word  or  sentence  of  the  copy,  to  be  verified^ 
by  the  manuscript,  —  for  Mr.  Hunter  had  been  allowed  by  the 
Bishop  to  retain  the  precious  document  for  a  while  in  anticipa- 
tion of  
such  difficulties. 
 - 86 - 
1891.]  MEMOIR   OF   CHARLES   DEANE.  55 
Mr.  Deane  was  desirous  of  annotating  thoroughly  the  his- 
tory ;  
but  it  had  never  been  the  custom  of  the  Society  to  print 
original  material  with  such  annotations  as  Judge  Davis  had 
supplied  to  Morton's  "Memorial,"  and  as  Mr.  Savage  had  be- 
stowed upon  Winthrop's  Journal.  Mr.  Savage,  who  was  at  this 
time  the  President  of  the  Society,  favored  the  traditional  habit, 
and  it  was  only  after  some  delay  that  it  was  finally  determined 
that  the  manuscript  should  be  annotated  ;  but  not  to  the  ex- 
tent to which  Mr.  Deane  would  have  liked  to  carry  it.  The 
innovation  however  established  a  precedent;  and  no  question 
of  the  propriety  of  such  elucidatory  helps  has  since  been 
raised  in  the  Society.1 
It  was  a  widely  expressed  wish,  in  later  years,  that  Mr. 
Deane  should  recur  to  this  work,  and  give  a  new  edition  with 
all  the  amplitude  of  his  erudition  in  commentary  and  note. 
He  sometimes  spoke  to  me  as  if  he  were  inclined  to  the  task, 
and  I  know  that  a  publisher  stood  ready  to  undertake  the 
issue.  Our  associate,  Mr.  C.  F.  Adams,  Jr.,  in  bringing  up 
in  1883  the  question  of  the  propriety  of  reproducing  in  print 
the  abbreviations  and  other  perplexities  common  in  seven- 
teenth-century manuscripts,  referred  to  the  literal  manner  in 
which  Mr.  Deane  had  printed  Bradford,  and  added  :  "  I  have 
long  been  urging  him  to  bring  out  a  new  edition  of  the  book, 
with  which  his  name  should  stand  always  inseparably  con- 
nected; and  I  have  urged  it  not  only  because  we  may  have  a 
more  copious  annotation,  but  also  because  I  want  to  see  Brad- 
ford's English  in  a  real  seventeenth-century  dress,"  —  as  the 
press  of  that  day  would  have  given  it.  This  led  Mr.  Deane 
to  remark  at  the  close  of  Mr.  Adams's  paper:  "I  should  prob- 
ably go  
farther  than  he  has  gone  in  claiming  for  an  editor  the 
exercise  of  a  more  radical  power  in  adapting  such  material  to 
the  use  of  modern  readers."     He  goes  on  elucidating  further 
1  This  was  the  first  publication  of  the  Society  of  such  general  interest  that  an 
edition  for  public  sale  was  deemed  desirable.  When  a  few  years  later  he  visited 
Fulham,  Mr.  Deane  took  with  him  a  copy  of  the  book  in  which  he  had  checked 
certain  passages  for  further  verification,  and  he  had  an  opportunity  during  sev- 
eral hours  to  compare  them  with  the  manuscript.  The  result  is  noted  in  a  copy 
which  he  kept  for  correction,  and  which  is  in  his  own  library.  The  changes  are 
of  little  importance  ;  
but  there  are  a  few  of  some  interest  in  the  list  of  the  "  May- 
flower "  
passengers,  printed  at  the  end  of  the  narrative.  This  corrected  copy  also 
bears  the  following  memoranda  :  "  1856,  Monday,  May  12.  A  few  copies  came 
from  the  binder.  Tuesday,  May  20,  a  notice  of  the  book  in  some  of  the  public 
papers.     Wednesday,  May  21,  the  book  published  by  Little,  Brown,  &  Co." 
 - 87 - 
5Q  MASSACHUSETTS   HISTORICAL   SOCIETY.  [Nov. 
his  editorial  canons:  "  I  directed  that  an  exact  transcript  of 
the  Bradford  manuscript  should  be  made,  being  very  desirous 
to  secure  a  correct  text.  On  receiving  it  I  found  that  it.  not 
only  abounded  in  abbreviated  words,  but  that  many  words  as 
spelled  out  by  the  writer  were  spelled  quite  differently  from 
any  examples  to  be  found  in  printing-offices  in  England  in 
Bradford's  time.  Bradford  had  a  spelling  of  his  own.  To 
words  of  Latin  origin  that  came  into  our  language  through 
the  French  he  would  give  a  French  termination,  but  his  pecu- 
liarities were  not  confined  to  words  such  as  these.  If  I  had 
attempted  to  spell  out  Bradford's  abbreviations,  I  might  have 
been  at  a  loss  in  some  instances,  though  I  apprehend  not  many, 
to  know  how  to  spell  them,  —  that  is  to  say,  to  know  how 
Bradford  would  have  spelled  them.  In  some  manuscripts  the 
difficulty  here  would  be  serious,  as  it  involves  the  question 
how  to  deal  with  the  writings  of  the  ignorant  and  illiterate." 
We  have  an  instance  of  what  be  means  in  this  last  statement 
in  one  of  the  papers  which  he  prints  in  the  Trumbull  Papers, 
where  in  referring  to  the  paper  he  says:  u  It  was  written  by  a 
very  illiterate  hand,  and  it  seems  hazardous  to  meddle  with  its 
orthography  or  punctuation.  We  therefore  print  the  paper 
verbatim  et  literatim,  and  leave  it  to  the  reader  to  make  out 
its  meaning." 
In  concluding  these  remarks  occasioned  by  Mr.  Adams's 
paper  Mr.  Deane  said  :  "  There  can  be  no  difference  of  opinion 
as  to  the  duty  of  an  editor  to  retain  the  language,  that  is,  the 
words  of  a  writer,  however  awkward  the  form  may  be  in 
which  they  are  preserved."  He  enlarges  in  another  place  on 
what  he  believed  to  be  the  function  of  an  editor.  It  is  in  the 
preface  to  Smith's  "True  Relation,"  where  he  says:  "  Where 
the  meaning  of  the  author  has  been  obscured  or  perverted  by 
the  defective  print,  or  where  he  has  himself  failed  to  express 
his  thoughts  clearly,  I  have  ventured  to  make  suggestions  in 
the  notes.  Where  the  meaning  is  apparent  at  once  to  the 
intelligent  reader,  notwithstanding  the  defects  m  punctuation 
and  in  the  grammatical  construction  of  the  sentences,  I  have 
usually  left  the  page  without  comment."  x 
1  Mr.  Deane,  in  a  review  of  Veazie's  edition  of  Calef  and  Mather's  "  Wonders 
of  the  Invisible  World,"  which  he  printed  in  the  "Boston  Daily  Advertiser," 
March  24,  1865,  showed  his  scrutiny  of  the  non-observance  of  proper  editorial 
canons.     There  were  two  reprints  of  this  article,  in  separate  and  sumptuous  form, 
 - 88 - 
1891.]  MEMOIR   OF   CHARLES    DEANE.  57 
Mr.  Deane  never  had  the  opportunity  again  of  doing  a  like 
conspicuous  service  to  the  student  of  Pilgrim  history,  although 
in  1863  he  printed  some  descriptive  verses  of  Governor  Brad- 
ford from  the  original  manuscript,  and  in  1870  he  printed  in 
the  Society's  Proceedings  a  dialogue  in  which  Bradford  had 
marked  some  changes  in  the  religious  life  and  feelings,  as 
between  what  he  denominates  "  old  men  and  young  men." 
Mr.  Deane's  library  contained  one  of  the  very  few  copies  which 
are  known  of  the  sermon  which  Elder  Cushman  delivered 
at  Plymouth  in  1621  ;  and  when  a  photo-lithograph  facsimile 
of  the  little  tract  was  published  in  1870,  Mr.  Deane  supplied 
the  preface.  In  1871  he  brought  forward  a  letter  of  Sir  John 
Stanhope,  which  threw  a  little  light  on  the  early  history  of 
Elder  Brewster.  In  1873  he  was  a  guest  at  one  of  the  cele- 
brations in connection  with  the  monument  to  Miles  Standish 
in  Duxbury,  and  the  printed  record  of  the  meeting  contains  a 
report  of  a  speech  which  he  made. 
His  interest  in  everything  touching  the  leaders  of  the  Pil- 
grims or  which  concerned  the  Colony's  history  never  waned  ; 
and  there  was  no  limit  to  the  sympathy  which  he  felt  with  the 
late  Dr.  Dexter  in  his  studies  respecting  their  life  and  condi- 
tion in  
England  and  Holland.  He  never  failed  to  attend  any 
commemoration  of  their  deeds,  and  I  have  wandered  with  him 
over  the  scenes  of  their  pleasures  and  trials.  I  went  with  him 
once  to  Plymouth  in  company  with  a  group  of  Harvard  stu- 
dents, who  wished  to  traverse  the  iields  of  the  Pilgrim  activity. 
He  was  the  one  to  whom  everybody  listened,  as  in  the  Court 
House,  with  the  early  records  spread  before  the  eager  youths, 
or  at  Pilgrim  Hall  or  upon  the  Burial  Hill  he  told  the  story 
which  each  document  or  scene  suggested.  A  few  years  ago, 
when  it  devolved  upon  me  to  deliver  the  anniversary  address 
at  Duxbury  in  commemoration  of  the  town's  incorporation  in 
1637,  he  followed  with  me  every  step  in  the  preparation  of 
the  paper,  with  the  same  care  and  eagerness  as  if  he  had 
been  the  chosen  speaker.  In  the  last  years  of  his  life  he  also 
took  up  the  story  of  the  Pilgrim  days  with  pleasure.  He  re- 
ported upon  the  will  of  Peregrine  White,  in  the  Proceedings 
for  which  he  was  not  responsible  in  either  case.  One  was  called  No.  1  of  a 
series  of  Bibliographical  Tracts,  with  a  sub-title  of  "  Spurious  Reprints  of  Early 
Books"  (no  second  number  was  issued)  ;  and  who  was  responsible  for  the  other 
edition  he  never  knew. 
8 
 - 89 - 
58  MASSACHUSETTS   HISTORICAL   SOCIETY.  [Nov. 
of  November,  1886  ;  he  edited  the  records  of  the  Old  Colony 
Club,  whose  formation  antedated  the  Revolution,  in  October, 
1887.  In  December,  1888,  he  revived  much  of  his  interest  in 
the  hulk  of  the  old  ship  which  was  found  buried  in  the  sand  of 
Cape  Cod,  twenty-five  years  before,  and  which  had  engaged 
his  attention  at  that  time  as  in  all  probability  that  of  a  vessel 
named  the  "  Sparrow-hawk"  wrecked  on  the  Cape  in  the  Pil- 
grim days.  He  took  satisfaction  in  finding  that  his  renewed 
attention  to  the  hulk,  which  had  been  lost  sight  of  for  many 
years,  resulted  in  the  remains  finding  a  permanent  place  in  the 
building  of  the  Pilgrim  Society  at  Plymouth.  (Proceedings, 
December,  1888.)  I  have  seen  him  handle  many  of  his  books 
tenderly  ;  
but  he  always  seemed  to  be  reverent  in  his  aspect 
when  he  took  down  from  his  shelves  Edwin  Sandys's  "  State  of 
Religion"  (1605)  and  laid  before  a  visitor  the  page  on  which 
John  Robinson,  the  Pilgrims'  pastor,  had  inscribed  his  name  ; 
for  besides  the  sanctification  of  that  autograph,  he  was  fond 
of  drawing  attention  to  certain  passages  in  the  book  which 
might  have  been  the  prototypes  of  parts  of  Robinson's  Fare- 
well Address  at  Delfthaven. 
Mr.  Deane's  interest  in  the  elder  colony,  on  the  James 
River,  might  almost  mate  that  which  he  felt  for  the  Pilgrim 
history  ;  and  perhaps  upon  no  one  character  had  he  bestowed 
more  thought  than  upon  Captain  John  Smith,  who  served  him 
as  a  sort  of  link  to  connect  the  early  puritan  and  separatist 
history  of  North  Virginia  —  become,  by  Smith's  naming,  New 
England  —  with  the  cavalier  story  of  the  Chesapeake  region.  I 
think  that  he  felt  he  had  more  closely  connected  his  name 
with  that  of  Smith  than  with  any  other  historical  character. 
When  Edward  Arber  issued  his  edition  of  Smith's  works  in 
1884,  he  spoke  of  Mr.  Deane  as  one  "  who  had  done  more 
than  any  man  living  to  perpetuate  the  name  and  fame  of 
Captain  John  Smith  "  ;  and  referring  to  his  own  efforts,  Mr. 
Arber  added  that  "  Mr.  Deane  was  the  proper  person  to  have 
brought  out  this  collected  edition  of  Captain  Smith's  works." 
The  first  public  indication  of  his  interest  in  Smith  grew  out 
of  some  correspondence  which  he  had  with  Mr.  Lenox  re- 
specting the  maps  which  Smith  had  given  in  his  books  on 
Virginia  and  New  England,  in  which  the  joint  efforts  of  these 
two  scholars  were  directed  to  establish  the  sequence  of  the  dif- 
 - 90 - 
1891.]  MEMOIR   OF   CHARLES   DEANE.  59 
ferent  editions  of  the  maps,  and  to  associate  their  publication 
with  the  particular  tracts  to  which  they  belonged,  inasmuch 
as  the  subject  had  become  much  obscured  by  the  way  in 
which  dealers  had  shifted  the  maps  in  copies  of  different 
tracts,  made  up  for  the  eyes  of  collectors.  It  was  neces- 
sary to  
find  copies  of  these  tracts  so  far  as  was  possible  in 
their  original  bindings;  and  this  involved  a  wide  examina- 
tion of  libraries.  Both  gentlemen  used  Norton's  "  Literary 
Gazette  "  as  the  medium  of  their  communications.  This  was 
in  1851 
In  1856,  when  Dr.  George  H.  Moore  drew  the  attention  of 
scholars  to  the  fact  that  Anderson,  in  his  u  Church  of  England 
in  the  Colonies,"  had  also  used  the  Bradford  manuscript,  this 
book  served  also  to  bring  into  notice  Anderson's  reference  to 
another  manuscript,  preserved  in  the  Archiepiscopal  Palace  at 
Lambeth,  which  had  before  been  unknown  to  students  of  early 
Virginia  history,  though  it  was  evident  that  Purchas  had  used 
such  a  paper.  Mr.  Deane,  attracted  by  what  Anderson  had 
said,  after  "some  delay  and  some  difficulties  surmounted," 
procured  a  transcript,  which  he  intended  to  edit  at  his  con- 
venience ;  
but  being  put  on  the  Publication  Committee  of  the 
American  Antiquarian  Societ}7,  he  laid  it  before  that  body  at 
the  October  meeting  in  1859,  and  in  presenting  it  for  their 
consideration,  he  outlined  the  argument,  which  tended,  as  the 
record  runs,  "  to  show  that  the  story  of  Pocahontas,  as  com- 
monly received,  was  probably  apocryphal."  This  was  the 
first  intimation  that  the  favorite  romance  of  American  history, 
the  saving  of  Smith's  life  by  Pocahontas,  the  daughter  of 
Powhatan,  had  been  put  to  a  critical  test.  The  latest  explorer 
of  the  secrets  of  the  early  Virginia  history,  Mr.  Alexander 
Brown,  referring  to  Mr.  Deane's  questioning  of  the  state- 
ments which  Smith  had  embodied  in  the  "  Generall  His- 
toric," so  at  variance  with  that  author's  earlier  presentations, 
speaks  of  those  who  had  before  this  questioned  Smith's  ve- 
racity, but  adds  that  u  Dr.  Deane  was  the  first  to  suggest 
an  intelligent  analysis  of  his  writings  for  freeing  our  early  his- 
tory from  the  meshes  of  his  fable."  It  was  by  a  process 
of  critical  analysis  and  comparison,  with  the  aid  of  reflected 
light  from  other  sources,  that  Mr.  Deane,  in  studying  Wing- 
field's  "  Discourse,"  the  manuscript  found  at  Lambeth, 
made  that  romantic  story  the  crucial  test  of  Smith's  veracity, 
 - 91 - 
60  MASSACHUSETTS   HISTORICAL   SOCIETY.  [Nov. 
—  an  argument  which  he  further  strengthened  when  a  few 
years  later  he  returned  to  the  subject,  while  editing  Smith's 
"  True  Relation." 
The  result  of  Mr.  Deane's  criticism  probably  warrants  the 
statement  of  Prof.  Moses  Coit  Tyler,  in  his  "History  of 
American  Literature,"  when  he  says  that  "  this  pretty  story 
has  now  lost  historical  credit,  and  is  generally  given  up  b}^ 
critical  students  of  our  early  history."  Judge  Washburn,  at 
a  meeting  of  the  Antiquarian  Society  a  few  years  after  that 
Society  had  published  the  "  Discourse  "  of  Wingfield,  under 
Mr.  Deane's  supervision,  spoke  of  the  "iconoclastic  severity 
of  research  of  one  of  our  most  industrious  and  infallible  mem- 
bers, who  has  demolished  at  a  blow  the  image  of  female  cour- 
age and  devotion  which  has  so  long  emblazoned  the  name  of 
Pocahontas." 
It  is  a  question,  however,  if  Mr.  Deane  himself  could  have 
been  considered  as  claiming  the  accomplishment  of  so  thorough 
a  demolition.  He  professes  no  more  than  "  to  suggest  that 
this  story  is  one  of  the  embellishments  with  which  Smith's 
later  works  were  sometimes  adorned."  While  the  view  which 
he  advanced  is  extremely  probable,  it  lacks  the  final  proof,  and 
is  at  best  a  negative  argument  ;  which,  while  it  has  commended 
itself  to  writers  like  Henry  Adams,  Henry  Cabot  Lodge,  and 
Alexander  Brown,  and  has  been  pushed  farther  by  Edward 
D.  Neill,  has  not  convinced,  on  the  other  hand,  some  of  the 
upholders  of  a  faith  in  Smith,  particularly  in  Virginia  itself, 
wdiere  William  Wirt  Henry  and  others  have  contended  for 
the  favorite  belief. 
Mr.  Deane's  edition  of  Wingfield  was  published  in  the 
Transactions  of  the  American  Antiquarian  Society  in  1860  ; 
and  a  small  edition  (one  hundred  copies)  was  published 
separately  by  the  editor,  in  the  same  year,  some  earlier  im- 
pressions which  bear  the  date  of  1859  having  been  "  can- 
celled because  of  a  few  errors,"  and  even  copies  which  had 
been  distributed  were  recalled. 
From  the  time  that  Mr.  Deane  published  his  "  True  Rela- 
tion" down  to  1885,  when  he  reverted  to  the  Pocahontas 
story  in  the  "Magazine  of  American  History"  (vol.  xiii.),  he 
published  nothing  more  on  the  topic  ;  and  he  said  in  this 
last  paper  that  his  views  had  excited  an  attention  which  he 
had  never  anticipated.     "  Much,"  he  says,  "  has  been  written 
 - 92 - 
1891.]  MEMOIR   OF   CHARLES   DEANE.  61 
during  the  last  twenty-five  years  on  both  sides  of  the  question. 
Some  of  the  criticisms,  which  early  met  my  eye,  by  Southern 
writers  opposed  to  my  view  were  temperate  in  spirit  and  ex- 
cellent in  
taste  ;  
but  I  sometimes  felt  that  the  authors  of  them 
were  not  fully  informed  on  the  subject,  —  that  the  bibliogra- 
phy of  the  case  had  not  been  mastered.  On  the  other  hand 
several  newspaper  articles  which  were  sent  to  me  were  dis- 
courteous and  passionate  in  tone,  while  others  were  personally 
abusive,"  styling  him,  as  he  said,  a  "  ruthless  Yankee,"  who 
had  rifled  u  our  very  history  of  its  choicest  traditions." 
In  this  last  paper  Mr.  Deane  expresses  himself  as  particu- 
larly pleased  with  Mr.  Henry  Adams's  paper  in  the  "  North 
American  Review"  (January,  1867),  because  he  found  it  an 
admirable  presentation  of  the  whole  question,  giving  a  com- 
parison of  
Smith's  earlier  and  later  statements  throughout  in 
a  very  effective  manner,  and  "  showing  how  little  reliance 
could  be  placed  on  the  redoubtable  captain  as  a  truthful  narra- 
tor of  
events,  particularly  in  his  later  works,  where  his  vanity 
and  strong  love  of  the  marvellous  disposed  him  to  garnish  the 
stories  of  his  early  adventures." 
When  the  Civil  War  broke  out,  a  few  months  after  the  pub- 
lication of  
his  Wingfield,  bringing  as  it  did  a  cessation  to  the 
community  of  interest  which  he  had  established  with  some  of 
the  Virginian  antiquarians,  this  disruption  of  friendly  relation 
was  added  to  his  regrets  as  a  patriot  to  make  the  begin- 
ning of  
hostilities  to  him  a  painful  event.  Nothing,  however, 
of  sentiment,  friendly  or  agreeable,  could  swerve  him  from  his 
devotion  to  his  duty  as  a  citizen;  and  he  never  forgot  the  part 
which  the  Republican  party  did  in  restoring  the  national  unity, 
and  remained  steadfast  in  his  allegiance  to  it,  in  later  years, 
when  many  of  his  associates  thought  that  its  usefulness  had 
passed. 
The  campaign  on  the  Potomac  brought  back  to  him  the 
associations  of  the  early  history  of  that  region  ;  and  in  October, 
1864,  he  read  to  the  Antiquarian  Society  a  paper  on  the  his- 
toric points  on  the  James,  connected  with  the  movements  of 
the  contending  forces. 
When  the  war  was  over,  he  returned  again  to  his  study  of 
these  early  tracts  of  Smith;  and  the  reprints  of  the  "Adver- 
tisements for Unexperienced  Planters,"  and  "The  Descrip- 
tion of  
New  England,"  both  issued  at  Boston  in  1865,  bear 
 - 93 - 
62  MASSACHUSETTS   HISTORICAL   SOCIETY.  [Nov. 
evidence  of  his  care  ;  
but  it  was  in  the  next  year,  1866,  that  he 
bestowed  his  best  care  upon  a  reissue  of  Smith's  "  True  Rela- 
tion of  
Virginia."  Mr.  Deane  approached  the  consideration 
of  this  earliest  of  all  the  Virginian  published  narratives  with 
no  abatement  of  his  interest  in  Smith,  notwithstanding  his 
criticism  upon  his  veracity.  He  still  could  call  him  "  the 
master  spirit  of  the  Colony,"  and  thought  that  he  was  now 
dealing  with  a  narrative  which  had  been  written  before  he 
had  occasion  for  "  embellishments."  It  is,  he  says,  "an  appar- 
ently faithful  history  of  the  Colony  for  the  period  which  it 
includes.  When  Captain  Smith,"  he  adds,  "comes  in  collision 
with  others  in  authority  in  the  Colony,  some  allowance  per- 
haps should  be  made  for  his  strong  prejudices,  and  it  is  always 
well,  if  possible,  to  read  their  versions  of  the  story  in  con- 
nection with  his."  He  referred  here  to  the  "Discourse"  of 
Wingfield,  in  which  the  latter  had  defended  himself  from 
some  of  the  charges  made  against  him  by  Smith.  His  edito- 
rial labors  upon  "  The  True  Relation  "  brought  him  again 
into  reciprocal  correspondence  with  Mr.  Lenox,  on  the  biblio- 
graphical side  of  his  problem  ;  and  he  found  that  scholarly 
collector  the  laborious  coadjutor  in  such  questions  which  he 
always  proved  himself  to  be  when  there  was  something  to 
receive  as  well  as  to  give.  I  have  often  found  Mr.  Deane  to 
acknowledge  the  great  helpfulness  and  exhaustiveness  of  that 
gentleman's  bibliographical  correspondence,  and  it  was  some 
gratification  to  my  friend  to  know  that  my  own  experience 
with  Mr.  Lenox  could  add  to  his  testimony.  Something  akin 
to  the  help  which  Mr.  Lenox  was  to  him  on  that  side,  was  the 
assistance  which  Mr.  Bancroft  afforded  him  on  the  purely 
historical  side  in  opening  his  stores  of  manuscripts  on  early 
Virginia  history,  derived  from  the  English  State  Paper 
Office. 
Mr.  Deane's  editorial  work  did  not  fail  of  recognition. 
Professor  Tyler  referred  to  its  admirable  manner,  its  fulness 
of  learning,  and  its  great  accuracy. 
Mr.  Deane  was  now  on  the  eve  of  seeing  for  himself  the 
treasures,  of  record  and  print,  with  which  his  labors  had  made 
him  familiar.  At  the  meeting  of  the  American  Antiquarian 
Society,  in  April,  1866,  Mr.  Haven,  the  librarian,  and  Mr. 
Deane  were  chosen  to  represent  the  Society  at  an  Archseo- 
logical  Congress  to  be  held  in  Antwerp  ;  and  later  our  associate, 
 - 94 - 
1891.]  MEMOIR   OF   CHARLES   DEANE.  63 
Dr.  Peabody,  was  joined  to  the  delegation.  They  sailed  on 
June  6  ;  and  though  their  main  purpose  was  not  effected  on 
account  of  the  postponement  of  the  Congress  for  a  year,  the 
trip  was  far  from  a  barren  one.  He  made  a  very  full  record 
of  his  movements  and  observations  in  a  file  of  letters  which 
his  family  preserve  ;  and  some  of  those,  in  whole  or  in  part, 
which  he  addressed  to  the  President  of  the  Historical  Society 
were  printed  in  its  Proceedings.  Dr.  Peabody  has  also  fur- 
nished some  memoranda.  "  We  stayed,"  lie  says,  "  two  or 
three  days  at  Chester,  where  Mr.  Deane  of  course  found 
great  delight.  At  Oxford  it  was  vacation  ;  
but  Mr.  Deane 
made  the  acquaintance  of  Mr.  Coxe,  of  the  Bodleian  Library, 
and  received  various  civilities  from  him."  It  was  at  the  Bod- 
leian that  he  saw  the  extremely  rare  original  edition  (1588) 
of  Hariot's  "  Newfoundland  of  Virginia,"  which  he  had  only 
known  in  the  text  of  Hakluyt  and  De  Bry,  and  I  am  not  sure 
that  Mr.  Lenox  at  this  time  did  not  possess  the  only  copy 
which  I  know  of  in  America.  Another  book  which  greatly 
interested  him  was  the  1620  edition  of  Smith's  "  New  Eng- 
lands  Trials  "  ;  and  he  wrrote  home  of  it  that  there  was  no 
copy  known  in  the  United  States,  —  though  he  himself  pos- 
sessed the  somewhat  enlarged  edition  of  1622.  He  found  the 
Bodleian  copy  to  differ  a  little  from  that  in  the  British  Mu- 
seum ;  
and  from  a  transcript  of  it,  which  Mr.  Coxe  procured 
for  him,  he  caused  it  to  be  reprinted  in  our  Proceedings  in 
1873.1 
"  At  London,"  says  Dr.  Peabody,  "  we  lodged  in  Norfolk 
Street.  We  had  kind  attentions  from  Mr.  Adams,  our  minis- 
ter, and  from  Mr.  Morse,  our  consul.  Mr.  Deane  spent  a  good 
deal  of  time  on  antiquarian  matters  with  Mr.  Henry  Stevens 
and  Mr.  Parker." 
In  a  letter  to  his  family  (July  1),  Mr.  Deane  speaks  of  an 
excursion  to  Greenwich  as  follows  :  — 
"  We  went  to  dine,  by  invitation,  with  a  club  of  gentlemen  called 
the  Noviomagians,  —  all  being  members  of  the  Society  of  Antiquaries. 
The  President  of  the  club  is  Mr.  S.  C.  Hall  ;  
both  he  and  Mrs.  Hall 
were  present.  I  understand  the  origin  of  the  club  to  be  this  :  There 
was  an  old  Roman  station  in  England  called  Noviomagus,  but  its  loca- 
tion is  
unknown.    This  society  was  formed  with  the  plan  of  discovering 
1  He  also  printed  a  private  edition  of  fifty  copies. 
 - 95 - 
6±  MASSACHUSETTS   HISTORICAL   SOCIETY.  [Nov. 
its  site,  and  they  meet  once  a  month  at  different  places  with  the  osten- 
sible purpose  of  investigation.  The  truth  is,  they  meet  to  have  a 
dinner  and  a  good  time." 
While  in  London  he  examined  at  the  Public  Record  Office 
what  there  is  remaining  of  the  Records  of  the  Council  for  New 
England  ;  and  he  was  not  so  successful  as  he  had  hoped  to 
be  from  an  inspection  of  Captain  Newport's  "  Discovery,"  in 
solving  the  mooted  question  of  its  authorship.  At  Lambeth 
he  inspected  the  manuscript  of  Wingfield's  "  Discourse."  At 
Guildhall  he  was  delighted  to  find  among  the  antiquities  a 
form  of  pipe,  common  in  the  early  half  of  the  seventeenth 
century,  which  corresponded  exactly  with  the  shape  of  one 
which  was  discovered  in  the  wreck  of  the  old  ship  at  Cape 
Cod  ;  and  its  corresponding  shape  went  a  great  way  to  sat- 
isfy him  of  the  antiquity  of  that  hulk.  He  went  to  St. 
Sepulchre's  to  look  upon  the  burial-place  of  Captain  Smith, 
with  none  of  the  scepticism  that  has  since  been  raised  re- 
garding the  identity  of  the  spot  ;  but  he  was  disappointed 
to  find  a  carpet  between  his  tread  and  the  slab  upon  which 
so  many  visitors  have  traced  the  three  Turks'  heads.  But 
his  visit  to  Fulham  was  his  chief  enjoyment.  He  saw  and 
handled  the  precious  manuscript  of  Bradford,  as  the  pres- 
ent writer  did  at  a  later  day.  He  was  delighted  to  find  in 
it  a  fly-leaf  inscription  in  Prince's  hand,  which  had  escaped 
the  attention  of  Hunter,  and  which  added  to  the  history  of 
the  document  ;  and  he  found  two  other  volumes  of  manu- 
scripts which,  by  the  book-plates  in  them,  had  likewise  been 
taken  from  the  Prince  Library,  —  the  former  repository  of 
the  Bradford.  He  also,  as  already  stated,  made  a  partial  ver- 
ification of  
his  own  printed  text.1  In  the  interval  since  it 
was  first  brought  to  the  attention  of  American  scholars,  no  one 
from  the  land  of  its  origin  had  seen  it.  Two  years  after  Mr. 
Deane  had  published  it,  Dr.  John  Waddington,  giving  a  lec- 
ture in  
Southwark  (1858),  had  exhibited  it  to  his  audience, 
1  Mr.  Deane  made  two  visits  to  Fulham,  —  the  first  was  to  a  garden  party- 
given  by  the  Bishop,  when  he  merely  glanced  at  the  Bradford  manuscript  and 
made  arrangements  for  a  more  careful  examination  of  it  at  a  later  day.  On  this 
occasion  he  spent  four  hours,  "  sitting  in  the  same  room  with  a  number  of  young 
candidates  for  the  ministry  who  had  come  to  be  examined  by  the  Bishop."  He 
declined  an  invitation  to  lunch,  and  lost  not  a  precious  minute  of  the  time  which 
he  had  to  give  to  a  collation  of  the  manuscript. 
 - 96 - 
1891.]  MEMOIR    OF    CHARLES    DEANE.  65 
and  had  said  :  "  So  far  as  we  know,  not  a  person  now  living  in 
the  lands  of  the  Pilgrims  has  ever  seen  this  manuscript.  It 
has  been  kept  at  Fulham  among  the  papers  of  no  use  to  the 
See.  It  is  not  in  the  catalogue  of  the  library,  and  probably 
is  not  included  in  any  inventory  of  the  property."  The  rev- 
erend gentleman  then  urges  that  steps  be  taken  for  its  return 
to  New  England.  Two  years  after  this  (1860),  Mr.  Deane's 
friend,  the  then  President  of  this  Society,  had  represented 
that  the  Prince  of  Wales,  in  his  proposed  visit  to  the  United 
States,  could  very  gracefully  bring  it,  and  so  restore  it  to  its 
former  ownership.  The  necessary  interposition  of  an  act  of 
Parliament  to  accomplish  such  a  transfer  stood  in  the  way  at 
that  time,  as  it  did  some  years  later,  when,  at  the  instance  of 
the  present  writer,  our  minister,  Mr.  Motley,  made  similar  in- 
quiries. I  
know  that  Mr.  Deane  finally  shared  my  own  feel- 
ing, that  it  would  be  better  for  it  to  remain  where  it  is;  and 
during  a  recent  second  visit  which  I  have  paid  to  Fulham,  I 
was  glad  to  learn  of  the  interest  with  which  it  is  regarded, 
and  of  the  steps  which  the  present  Bishop  is  taking  to  put 
the  muniments  and  other  manuscripts  of  his  diocese  in  better 
order. 
Mr.  Deane  made  various  trips  from  London,  and  took  in 
his  way  at  different  times  some  of  the  interesting  regions 
which  the  ordinary  tourist  traverses.  But  he  saw  other  sights 
that  pleased  him  more.  He  was  at  Althorp,  and  saw  that 
private  library  in  all  Europe  perhaps  which  offers  most  al- 
lurements to a  lover  of  books.  He  was  at  Bawtry,  where 
some  friends  of  Richard  Monckton  Milnes  —  afterward  Lord 
Houghton  —  made  it  very  pleasant  for  him  to  visit  Scrooby 
and  Austerfleld  ;  and  he  has  chronicled  this  visit  to  the  shrine 
of  Bradford  in  the  preface  to  his  edition  of  Bradford's  Dia- 
logue in  
our  Proceedings  in  1870. 
"  We  afterward  went  to  Cambridge,"  says  Dr.  Peabody, 
"  but  found  nobody  there  that  we  wanted  to  see  ;  then  to  Bos- 
ton, and  you  would  have  to  go  through  Thomson's  History  of 
Boston  for  the  list  of  the  spots  there  which  Mr.  Deane  visited 
with  the  searching  eye  of  a  practised  antiquary,  so  that  to  him 
I  owe  a  more  lifelike  remembrance  of  all  I  saw  there  than  of 
any  other  town  in  England.  We  went  from  England  to  Bel- 
gium, thence  to  Switzerland,  and  I  parted  from  Mr.  Deane  at 
the  glacier  of  the  Rhone.     All  that  I  can  say  of  him  is  that  he 
 - 97 - 
66  MASSACHUSETTS   HISTORICAL   SOCIETY.  [Nov. 
was  as  pleasant  a  fellow  traveller  and  sojourner  as  ever  man 
could  be,  and  that  the  intimacy  of  several  weeks  only  intensi- 
fied every  impression  as  to  his  sterling  worth,  his  genuine  kind- 
ness, and  his  breadth  of  mind  and  heart  that  I  had  formed 
from  previous  acquaintance.  I  think  that  he  fully  enjoyed 
his  stay  in  England.  His  un familiarity  with  any  language 
but  his  own  seemed  to  impair  his  enjoyment  of  the  Con- 
tinent ;  
for  English  was  not  then  the  universal  language 
which  it  has  now  become,  and  there  were  various  occasions 
on  which  Mr.  Deane  felt  the  lack  of  a  ready  medium  of 
intercourse." 
This  lack  of  facility  in  other  tongues  was  during  all  his 
student  life  an  impediment  in  research  which  met  him  in  va- 
rious directions.  His  scant  training  in  Latin  in  his  youth  was 
not  increased  by  a  subsequent  college  career,  as  at  one  time 
it  was  expected  it  would  be,  and  he  had  to  depend  on  others 
for  the  interpretation  of  the  Latin  which  he  found  in  Peter 
Martyr,  De  Bry,  and  various  other  of  the  older  sources  ;  and 
it  was  a  particular  regret  to  him  that  he  was  balked  in  this 
way  in  his  study  of  the  inscriptions  on  the  Cabot  mappe- 
?nonde,  which  was  for  many  years  a  theme  for  his  investiga- 
tions. It  
was  about  the  only  thing  on  the  Continent  that  he 
saw  upon  which  he  could  bring  to  bear  the  great  stress  of  his 
historical  learning.  He  inspected  it  in  the  great  library  at 
Paris,  and  made  a  friendship  over  it  with  one  of  the  officers 
of  the  library  that  led  to  a  later  correspondence.1  But  these 
impediments  were  not  unsurmountable,  and  he  spared  no 
pains  or  expense  in  getting  the  services  of  the  best  experts  in 
unravelling  the  intricacies  of  debased  Latin  and  archaic  Span- 
ish and  Italian.  There  is  an  evidence  of  this  in  the  paper  on 
these  same  inscriptions  which  he  left  unfinished  at  his  death, 
but  which  he  intrusted  to  the  hands  of  Mr.  C.  C.  Smith.  It 
has  since  been  communicated  to  our  Proceedings  (1891). 
Late  in  the  season  of  1866  he  returned  to  America,  and  was 
able,  at  the  meeting  of  the  Antiquarian  Society  at  Worcester 
in  October,  to  render  some  account  of  his  trip. 
1  In  a  letter  of  September  5  he  speaks  of  finding  exposed  for  sale  on  the  Quai 
Voltaire  a  copy  of  Jomard's  facsimile  of  the  Cabot  map  ;  
and  from  the  dealer  on 
the  Quai  he  got  his  first  clew  to  the  repository  of  the  original  in  the  Bibliotheque 
Imperiale,  where  the  next  day  he  had  the  satisfaction  of  inspecting  it  and  making 
memoranda  from  it  for  future  use. 
 - 98 - 
1891.]  MEMOIR   OF   CHARLES   DEANE.  67 
This  account  of  his  European  experience  has  interrupted 
the  story  of  his  devotion  to  Virginia  history.  Mention  has 
already  been  made  of  the  interest  with  which  he  observed  a 
rare  copy  of  one  of  Smith's  books  which  he  saw  in  the  Bod- 
leian. In the  London  Society  of  Antiquaries  he  had  been 
interested  in  what  he  could  glean  of  Smith  from  a  broadside 
prospectus  of  his  "  Generall  Historie  "  (1624),  and  in  the 
Public  Record  Office  he  had  seen  Smith's  letter  to  Lord  Ba- 
con, and  by  the  favor  of  Mr.  Henry  Adams,  then  secretary  to 
his  father,  the  American  minister  in  London,  he  had  pro- 
cured a  
copy  of  Smith's  will,  which  he  communicated  to  the 
Proceedings  of  our  Society  in  January,  1867.  We  find  also 
in  the  same  volume  a  communication  upon  Bacon's  "Rebellion 
on  the  James." 
In  1872  he  accompanied  Mr.  Haven  on  a  trip  through  the 
Southern  States  ;  and  he  did  not  fail  to  make  it  an  opportunity 
of  comparing  the  copy  of  the  records  of  the  Virginia  Company 
which  is  preserved  in  Richmond  with  another  which  he  had 
seen  in  Washington. 
I  well  remember,  in  the  later  years  of  his  life,  when  he  re- 
ceived a  
letter  from  a  retired  student  in  Virginia,  who  had  been 
made  familiar  with  all  that  Mr.  Deane  had  done  for  Virginia 
history,  while  in  the  country,  away  from  libraries.  Depending 
on  his  own  exertions,  this  gentleman  had  been  studying,  with 
little  intercourse  with  kindred  spirits,  the  earliest  history  of 
the  movement  for  settling  Virginia.  He  had  come  to  a  stand 
for  want  of  access  to  some  of  the  rarest  of  the  early  tracts, 
and  he  knew  they  were  in  Mr.  Deane's  library.  He  wrote  to 
him,  telling  his  straightforward  story,  to  ask  if  he  might  borrow 
them.  His  letter  showed  that  he  had  no  ordinary  curiosity. 
His  manner  easily  convinced  one  that  he  knew  whereof  he 
was  writing.  Mr.  Deane  was  struck  with  one  of  his  pleas  for 
the  favor;  and  I  trust  that  the  gentleman  will  pardon  me,  if 
this  memoir  chances  to  fall  under  his  eye,  for  mentioning  it. 
He  had  served  in  the  Confederate  forces,  and  was  in  Fort 
Fisher  at  the  time  the  Federal  commander  sought  to  demolish 
that  stronghold  by  the  explosion  near  it  of  a  heavily  stored 
powder-boat.  Mr.  Deane's  correspondent  said  that  about  the 
only  mischief  which  the  explosion  did  was  to  damage  the 
drums  of  his  ears  so  severely  that  he  had  hardly  heard  any- 
thing since,  and  that  this  barrier  to  social  intercourse  had  had 
 - 99 - 
68  MASSACHUSETTS   HISTORICAL   SOCIETY.  [Nov. 
something  to  do  with  his  devotion  to  historical  studies.  He 
moreover  thought  the  North  owed  him  something  for  what 
had  been  inflicted  upon  him  ! 
No  man  loved  his  books  more  tenderly  than  Mr.  Deane  ;  and 
I  know  that  on  more  than  one  occasion  when  I  have  been  with 
him  on  journeys  from  Cambridge,  a  thought  for  the  safety  of 
his  books  which  he  had  left  behind,  was  not  far  from  his  mind. 
He  told  the  Society  once,  in  speaking  of  his  acquaintance  with 
Dr.  Kohl,  while  that  gentleman  was  living  in  Cambridge,  how 
he  lent  "  armfuls  of  books"  to  him  ;  and  once  when  the  Doc- 
tor was  leaving  his  house,  "he  slung  a  large  package  of  books 
over  his  shoulder  like  a  travelling  pack,  and  trudged  off  with 
them  in  a  drifting  snowstorm,  making  me  almost  tremble  for 
my  precious  volumes."  In  his  memoir  of  Mr.  Livermore  he 
again  shows  what  a  solicitude  he  had  about  the  ordinary 
treatment  of  books.     He  said  of  his  friend,  — 
"  He  knew  how  to  open  a  book  without  breaking  its  back,  and  to  turn 
over  its  leaves  so  that  its  owner  would  not  tremble.  There  is  a  knack 
in  all  this,  known  only  to  the  true  lover  of  books,  —  to  him  who  rever- 
ences not  merely  the  author,  or  the  author's  thoughts,  but  the  concrete 
object  before  him." 
There  was  a  struggle  between  his  kindly  feelings  for  his 
new-found  sympathizer  in  Virginia  and  his  thoughts  of  the 
dangers  which  his  treasures  might  encounter  on  the  transit 
or  by  accident  in  distant  service.  I  left  him  one  evening  de- 
bating upon  his  duty.  The  next  day  he  told  me  he  had  sent 
the  books;  and  he  never  regretted  the  assistance  which  he  had 
given  in  this  and  in  many  other  ways  to  the  author  of  the 
"  Genesis  of  the  United  States."  Mr.  Alexander  Brown  in  his 
preface  says  that  Mr.  Deane  "  gave  his  helping  hand  from  the 
beginning  to  the  end  ;  and  his  last  letter  to  me,"  he  adds,  "  is 
expressive  of  his  interest  and  great  faith  in  my  work."  I  well 
know  the  endeavors  which  Mr.  Deane  made  to  help  the  author 
get  his  manuscript  into  a  shape  that  the  publishers  could  ap- 
prove, and  the  great  delight  he  felt  in  some  developments 
which  researches  in  the  archives  at  Simancas,  conducted  in 
Mr.  Brown's  interest,  had  produced  in  throwing  light  on  the 
voyage  of  Pring,  it  may  be,  to  the  New  England  coast,  and 
the  abortive  settlement  of  the  Popham  Company.  In  Mr. 
Brown's  book  he  supplied  the  note  on  St.  George's  fort,  in 
 - 100 - 
1891.]  MEMOIR   OF   CHARLES   DEANE.  69 
illustrating  the  plan  which  had  been  found  at  Simancaa. 
"  
One  would  think,"  he  says  in  this  note,  "  that  the  walls  of 
so  formidable  a  structure  [as  delineated  on  the  plan]  would 
have  shown  something  more  than  a  mere  ruin  after  the  lapse 
of  only  seventeen  years"  ;  and  then  he  quotes  Maverick's  ac- 
count of  
it  in  1624,  where  this  settler  says  he  "  found  roots  and 
garden  herbs  and  some  old  walls."  If  Mr.  Deane  could  have 
lived  to  see  Mr.  Brown's  volumes  published,  and  have  longer 
considered  the  plan,  he  might  have  been  conscious  that  an 
exaggeration,  which  he  plainly  suspected,  may  possibly  have 
had  a  purpose,  when  the  plan  was  put  in  the  hands  of  the 
Spanish  ambassador  in  London,  of  imposing  upon  the  Spanish 
Court  a  false  notion  of  its  strength.  With  this  interest  in 
Mr.  Brown's  labors,  Mr.  Deane  closed  almost  with  his  life  his 
interest  in  Virginia  history. 
In  tracing  thus  his  special  attention  to  the  stories  of  the 
Plymouth  and  Virginia  colonizations,  we  must  not  understand 
that  Mr.  Deane's  studies  were  bound  by  such  limitations. 
Every  phase  of  New  England  history  and  many  of  a  broader 
American  study  engaged  at  different  times  his  vigilance. 
As  early  as  1850  he  printed  in  the  "  New  England  His- 
torical and  Genealogical  Register"  a  manuscript  which  had 
come  into  his  hands,  going  over  the  devious  tracks  of  the 
Gorton  controversy,  which  proved  to  be  almost  identical  with 
Edward  Winslow's  defence  of  Massachusetts,  "Hypocrasie 
Unmasked,"  against  Gorton's  attacks  in  his  "  Simplicities 
Defence,"  both  published  in  1646.  In  introducing  this  paper 
and  others  appertaining,  he  gave  an  outline  of  Gorton's  puz- 
zling career.  In  referring  to  Winslow's  book,  he  speaks  of 
it  as  of  exceeding  rarity,  and  adds  :  "  Two  or  three  copies 
of  the  work  are  now  owned  here  [one  was  in  his  own  library]  ; 
and  as  it  contains  much  valuable  matter,  it  should  be  re- 
printed." The  urgency  of  a  reprint  is  as  strong  now  as 
then. 
Few  of  our  students  have  been  more  familiar  with  the  older 
chroniclers  of  Massachusetts  than  Mr.  Deane.  He  had  a  great 
admiration  for  the  historical  work  of  Hutchinson.  In  a  little 
essay  on  the  bibliographical  questions  connected  with  Hutch- 
inson's history,  which  he  printed  first  in  the  "  Historical  Maga- 
zine," and  later  in  an  improved   shape  in  our  Proceedings 
 - 101 - 
70  MASSACHUSETTS   HISTORICAL  SOCIETY.  [Nov. 
for  February,  1857,  he  says  :  "  To  the  curious  and  critical 
Hutchinson  will  always  have  a  value  ;  
but  to  the  student  who 
seeks  for  the  sources  of  our  history,  his  work  will  always  be 
indispensable  "  ;  and  thirty  years  later,  when  he  had  occasion 
to  review  the  writers  on  New  England  history,  he  spoke  of 
Hutchinson  as  having  ua  genius  for  history." 
In  1860  he  brought  another  of  the  old  writers  under  review, 
while  calling  attention  to  the  sections  of  the  diary  of  Cotton 
Mather,  which  are  preserved  in  the  cabinets  of  the  Historical 
and  Antiquarian  Societies.     He  says:  — 
"The  Journal  of  Cotton  Mather  has  not  been  published,  although 
extracts  have  been  made  from  it  from  time  to  time,  and  perhaps  excep- 
tions might  be  made  to  certain  parts  of  it  as  improper,  useless,  and  un- 
interesting ;  
and  yet  we  think  that  much  of  it  and  perhaps  the  larger 
portion  would  be  found  to  be  valuable  and  full  of  interest.  Although 
there  is  a  great  deal  about  himself,  his  illuminations,  his  resolves,  and 
his  struggles,  the  special  providences  by  which  he  was  surrounded  and 
upheld,  yet  these  furnish  in  many  respects  a  good  illustration  of  the 
faith  and  religious  condition  of  that  period.  Taken  as  a  whole  the 
diary  is  a  psychological  curiosity,  and  gives  an  excellent  index  to  his 
character.  There  is  beside  a  sufficient  reference  to  public  characters 
and  events  to  make  the  work  valuable  in  a  strictly  historical  point 
of  view." 
Two  years  later  he  drew  from  these  fragmentary  journals 
such  of  the  entries  as  shed  light  upon  the  curious  work  best 
associated  with  Mather's  name,  his  "Magnalia,"  and  published 
his  results  in  our  Proceedings  for  December,  1862.  This 
"  Magnalia  "  was  a  book  often  in  his  hands  ;  and  he  rendered 
a  service  to  many  a  possessor  of  the  original  edition  by  adding 
to  such  copies,  what  they  usually  lacked,  —  a  list  of  errata, 
which  he  had  printed  in  facsimile  for  his  own  copy.  After 
many  years'  experience  in  the  use  of  that  book  he  was  ready 
to  bear  testimony  to  the  vast  amount  of  historical  material 
which  rendered  it  an  indispensable  accompaniment  of  every 
library  in  New  England  history,  notwithstanding  its  vagaries 
and  inaccuracies. 
Mather  had  omitted  from  the  "  Magnalia  "  an  extended  life 
of  Governor  Dudley,  which  he  had  prepared,  substituting  for 
it  a  brief  statement.  In  1858  his  longer  memoir  came  into 
Mr.  Deane's  hand  in  a  modern  transcript  ;  but  he  could  not  be 
 - 102 - 
1891.]  MEMOIR   OF   CHARLES    DEANE.  71 
induced  to  print  it  without  reference  to  the  original  manu- 
script. At a  later  day  this  original  —  not  indeed  in  Mather's 
hand  —  came  to  the  Society  among  some  Dudley  papers;  and 
our  Proceedings  for  January,  1870,  preserve  it  to  us  with 
the  advantage  of  Mr.  Deane's  scrutinizing  oversight. 
Notwithstanding  the  secondary  character  of  Hubbard  as  an 
historian,  Mr.  Deane  took  a  peculiar  pleasure  in  seeing  that 
the  Society's  early  reprint  (1815)  of  his  history,  which  had 
been  made  from  an  imperfect  copy,  was  completed  ;  and  when 
he  laid  the  recovered  pages  of  the  book  before  the  Society  in 
February,  1878,  he  prefaced  them  with  a  statement  which  told 
the  story. 
In  1862  he  conducted  an  amicable  controversy,  before  the 
Historical  Society,  with  the  late  Colonel  A  spin  wall  on  the 
genuineness  of  the  Narragansett  Patent,  which  was  granted, 
as  was  professed  by  the  magistrates  of  Massachusetts,  in  1643. 
Shrouded  in  mystery,  as  Mr.  Deane  allowed  the  document  to 
be,  and  inducing  a  conflict  of  jurisdiction,  it  was  characteristic 
of  his  umpiring  as  a  judge  of  historic  probabilities,  not  to  al- 
low a  
document  to  be  fraudulent  or  a  forgery,  if  the  way  was 
not  rendered  thereby  clearer  to  a  final  settlement  of  doubts. 
He  would  not  abandon  confidence  in  a  paper  simpty  to  increase 
the  perplexity  of  a  question.  He  always  seemed  to  have  a 
personal  interest  in  seeing  any  historical  controversy  brought 
to  an  ultimate  decision.  "  I  always  like  to  see  historical  ques- 
tions settled,"  he  said  on  this  occasion.  "  It  would  be  grat- 
ifying in  
many  respects  to  be  able  to  concur  in  all  these 
statements;  but  I  am  not  quite  able  to  do  so";  and  no 
emphasis  of  contrary  asseveration  could  have  carried  greater 
weight.  I  remember  the  particular  delight  he  felt,  when  in 
1881  he  received  one  of  Henry  Stevens's  catalogues,  and  found 
in  it  the  evidence  that  Ferdinando  Gorges  was  not  account- 
able for  the  insertion  among  his  father's  tracts  of  Johnson's 
"  Wonder-working  Providence,"  which  with  later  writers  had 
brought  npon  the  son  some  severe  condemnation.  He  had 
himself  considered  the  suspicious  circumstances  in  a  review  of 
Mr.  Poole's  edition  of  Johnson's  book,  in  the  "North  Ameri- 
can Review"  in  1868.  He  felt  that  he  had  done  a  duty  to 
a  maligned  innocent  when  he  cited  the  proof  that  freed  the 
memory  of  the  younger  Gorges  of  the  charge. 
In  1865  he  gave  a  certain  dignity  at  the  outset  to  the  Prince 
 - 103 - 
72  MASSACHUSETTS  HISTORICAL   SOCIETY.  [Nov. 
Society  in  editing  their  initial  reprint  of  Wood's  u  New  Eng- 
lands  Prospect." 
In  the  year  after  his  return  from  Europe  the  American  Anti- 
quarian Society  profited  by  his  researches  there  in  the  publica- 
tion which  he  made  in  their  Proceedings  (April,  1867)  of  the 
Records  of  the  Council  for  New  England,  bringing  to  its  eluci- 
dation of  
his  abundant  knowledge  ;  and  at  a  later  day,  in 
October,  1875,  he  was  pleased  to  be  able  to  add  farther  to  the 
elucidation.  The  studies  for  this  naturally  conducted  him 
afresh  to  the  methods  which  obtained  in  the  early  days,  through 
which  legal  possession  was  acquired  in  the  soil  of  New  Eng- 
land. He  was  never  steadier  in  perception  or  riper  in  judg- 
ment than  when  he  read,  in  December,  1869,  his  paper  on 
w  The  Forms  used  in  issuing  Letters  Patent  by  the  Crown  of 
England."  It  was  a  question  involving  large  historical  knowl- 
edge and  not  a  little  legal  aptitude  ;  and  he  made  no  failure 
in  marshalling  in  his  own  mind  side  by  side  the  historical  ele- 
ments of  
the  question  from  his  own  resources,  and  the  legal 
side  from  his  conferences  with  the  highest  authorities  which 
dur  Massachusetts  Bar  could  offer.  He  did  it  in  a  way  that 
drew  forth  the  commendation  of  Judge  Parker.  He  had  no 
unvarying  pride  of  opinion,  though  he  clung  to  his  opinions  as 
long  as  he  could.  He  had,  in  the  paper  that  first  drew  upon 
him  the  attention  of  leading  members  of  this  Society,  sided 
with  those  who  have  granted  to  Endicott  the  honor  of  being 
the  first  governor  of  Massachusetts.  His  more  mature  opinion 
led  him  to  other  conclusions  in  this  paper  of  1869. 
I  hardly  remember  more  than  two  historical  controversies, 
among  the  many  which  had  engaged  his  attention,  in  which  Mr. 
Deane  showed  more  grief  than  impatience  at  wrong-headed- 
ness.  The  first  of  these  was  the  effort  which  for  some  years 
was  made  by  some  strenuous  disciples  of  local  pride  in  Maine 
—  his  own  State  —  to  rehabilitate  the  fame  of  the  abortive 
Popham  Colony  with  all  the  concomitants  of  a  settled  and 
fruitful  purpose,  with  the  aim  of  proving  it  the  parent  colony 
of  New  England.  He  watched  their  deliberate  endeavors  for 
some  years,  more  with  wonder  than  with  pain,  and  only  in 
the  effort  to  make  a  crowning  demonstration  in  1871  did  he 
enter  his  protest;  and  he  later  embodied  his  views  in  a  report 
of  his  remarks  which  were  printed  in  the  "  Boston  Daily 
Advertiser"  of  Sept.  2,  1871. 
 - 104 - 
1891.]  MEMOIR   OF   CHARLES   DEANE.  73 
The  other  controversy  was  the  more  recent  one,  which  grew 
out  of  the  stand  which  this  Society  took  in  1880,  when  the  at- 
tempt was  made  to  accentuate  the  alleged  geographical  cer- 
tainties of  
the  Icelandic  Sagas  in  erecting  the  statue  of  a 
Northman  in  Boston.  His  words  were  sober.  "  To  elevate 
these  sagas,"  he  said,  "  to  the  dignity  of  historical  relations 
with  their  details,  and  to  put  implicit  reliance  on  their  data  as 
to  time  and  place,  seems  to  me  unwarrantable.  They  are 
shadowy  and  mystical  in  form,  and  often  uncertain  in  meaning." 
If  the  Popham  question  had  been  one  where  the  affirmative 
contestants  had  yielded  in  a  certain  sense  to  State  pride,  the 
character  and  acts  of  Roger  Williams  have  usually  banded 
together  as  his  advocates  the  writers  of  Rhode  Island,  and 
given  to  the  defenders  of  Massachusetts  a  solid  rank  of  cen- 
sors more  or  less  warm  in  their  feelings.  No  man  looked  his 
own  side  more  squarely  in  the  face  when  he  thought  it  should 
quail,  than  Mr.  Deane  did.  He  recognized  the  overbearing 
ardor  of  the  Massachusetts  people  when  their  interests  came 
in  conflict  with  those  of  their  weaker  neighbors  ;  and  more 
than  once  he  bore  testimony  to  his  faith  in  what  in  one  of 
his  earliest  writings,  quoting  from  Polybius,  he  called  the  eye 
of  history,  —  truth.  But  as  a  student  of  the  world's  stages  of 
progress,  he  failed  to  see  how  the  action  of  Roger  Williams, 
in  endeavoring  to  upset  the  common  polity  of  his  time,  could 
be  suffered  in  any  self-respecting  community  which  was  mak- 
ing a  struggle  for  existence,  as  the  Bay  Colon}'  in  those  days 
was  ;  and  in  a  paper  which  he  read  to  this  Society,  in  Febru- 
uary,  1873,  he  might  well  maintain  that  Williams,  in  trying  to 
invalidate  the  royal  grants,  "  flew  in  the  face  of  the  public  law 
of  the  world  at  that  time."  1 
Mr.  Deane  took  much  satisfaction  in  the  publications  of 
Hakluyt,  —  he  possessed  the  original  editions  of  all  his  books, 
—  and  I  have  often  seen  them  at  his  side  as  he  was  work- 
ing in  his  study.  His  interest  in  all  that  related  to  the 
claims  of  England  to  the  northern  continent  —  claims  derived 
from  the  voyages  of  the  Cabots,  father  and  son  —  and  his 
study  of  the  urgency  of  the  friends  of  English  colonization 
often  took  him  to  the  collections    of   their   great   champion. 
1  He  had  already  touched  the  question  in  his  notice  of  the  first  volume  — 
Williams's  "  Key  "  —  of  the  publications  of  the  Narragansett  Club,  in  the  "  
North 
American  Review,"  April,  1868.                   10 
 - 105 - 
74  MASSACHUSETTS    HISTORICAL   SOCIETY.  [Nov. 
Hakluyt's  volumes  were  the  great  starting-point  of  his  inter- 
est in  the  Cabots,  and  he  was  led  to  a  study  of  what  records 
we  have  to  determine  the  sizes  of  the  little  ships  of  the 
early  voyagers  across  the  Atlantic.  He  prepared  a  paper  on 
this  subject  in  1865,  and  in  October  of  the  same  year  he  spoke 
to  the  Antiquarian  Society  of  "  the  exceedingly  meagre  and 
unsatisfactory  accounts  which  have  been  submitted  of  the 
voyages  of  the  Cabots,  and  suggested,"  as  the  records  read, 
"  the  propriety  of  the  Society's  taking  measures  to  have  a 
memoir  on  that  subject  prepared."  From  this  time  he  was 
looked  to  as  the  fittest  person  to  meet  expectations  on  this 
subject.  We  have  seen  that  in  the  next  year  he  studied 
afresh  the  Cabot  mappe-monde  of  1544  at  Paris  ;  and  his  in- 
terest was  quickened  by  the  words  which  Buckingham  Smith 
had  spoken  to  him  of  the  desirableness  of  a  closer  study  of 
its  inscriptions  ;  and  all  this  bore  fruit  in  the  copy  of  them 
which  he  later  procured,  and  which  since  his  death  has  been 
laid  before  this  Society  by  Mr.  Smith.  He  now  procured 
Jomard's  copy  of  the  map,  and  gave  it  to  the  Antiquarian 
Society  in  April,  1867.  I  had  been  so  long  conversant  with 
his  interest  in  this  subject,  and  knew  so  well  how  closely  he 
had  scrutinized  Biddle's  "  Life  of  Sebastian  Cabot,"  that  when 
it  devolved  on  me,  in  1882,  to  assign  the  chapter  on  the 
Cabots  in  the  u  Narrative  and  Critical  History  of  America," 
there  was  no  choice,  —  the  assignment  was  foreordained.  It 
was  while  he  was  at  work  on  this  —  one  of  the  most  critically 
skilful  treatises  of  the  book  —  that  we  availed  together  of  the 
visit  which  Mr.  Winthrop  was  about  making  to  Europe,  to 
engage  that  gentleman's  interposition  to  secure  a  full-sized 
photograph  of  the  map  with  its  marginal  inscriptions.  I  com- 
municated with  a  few  libraries  and  individuals,  and  got  a  circle 
of  ten  to  share  the  expense.  The  reproduction  was  so  suc- 
cessful that  the  photographer  claimed  the  privilege  of  exhib- 
iting his  work  at  an  exposition  then  going  on  in  Paris,  as 
embodying  the  most  successful  results  in  so  difficult  a  piece 
of  photography  which  at  that  time  had  been  reached.  In 
October,  1882,  Mr.  Deane  had  the  satisfaction  of  laying  an 
advanced  copy  of  this  photograph  before  the  Antiquarian 
Society  at   Worcester. 
Meanwhile  he  had  in  other  ways   linked    his   name  with 
Hakluyt's,  as  a  modern  commentator  on  a  manuscript  of  the 
 - 106 - 
1891.]  MEMOIR   OF   CHARLES   DEANE.  75 
old  collector.  When  Dr.  Woods,  his  friend  and  the  President 
of  Bowdoin  College,  was  in  England,  not  far  from  the  time  of 
Mr.  Deane's  own  visit,  he  had  secured  from  the  library  of  Sir 
Thomas  Phillipps  a  copy  of  a  paper  by  Hakluyt,  on  "  West- 
erne  "Planting,"  in  which  that  writer  had  come  again  to  the 
task  which  he  began  in  his  "  Divers  Voyages"  of  instilling 
into  the  English  mind  some  sense  of  the  opportunities  which 
were  offered  for  securing  English  supremacy  in  the  northern 
parts  of  the  New  World.  The  paper  was  in  its  nature  histori- 
cal, in enumerating  what  other  nations  had  done  and  in  show- 
ing how  there  was  an  opening  for  English  enterprise.  Dr. 
Woods  was  eager  to  meet  the  wishes  of  the  friends  of  the 
Maine  Historical  Society,  in  procuring  some  new  and  striking 
material  for  their  publications  ;  and  the  Society  was  just  at  this 
time  entering  upon  a  more  vigorous  career  than  had  before  dis- 
tinguished it. Though  this  subject  was  "  a  comparatively  new 
field  of  study  for  Dr.  Woods,"  he  entered  upon  a  plan  of  edit- 
ing the  manuscript  with  eagerness,  and  early  had  recourse  to 
Mr.  Deane  and  his  library  for  help.  A  few  years  later,  when 
the  bod}^  of  the  text  had  been  stereotyped  in  Cambridge  under 
the  supervision  of  Mr.  Deane,  a  fire  (1873)  in  the  house  of 
Dr.  Woods  at  Brunswick,  Maine,  destroyed  his  library,  though 
the  rough  notes  of  an  intended  preface  and  introduction  to 
the  book  were  saved,  while  a  few  other  fragments  of  this  per- 
formance were  in  Mr.  Deane's  hands.  The  blow  levelled  at 
a  man  no  longer  robust  fell  heavily  upon  Dr.  Woods,  and  it 
soon  became  evident  that  he  was  unfit  to  proceed  with  his 
task.  Mr.  Deane  was  called  upon  to  complete  the  labor.  He 
worked  Dr.  Woods's  notes  and  unfinished  paragraphs  into  a 
continuous  narrative,  and  the  joinery  with  its  gaps  filled  was 
submitted  to  Dr.  Woods  for  his  approval.  This  received,  the 
book  was  published  by  the  Maine  Historical  Society  as  "A 
Discourse  concerning  Western  Planting,  written  in  the  year 
1584  by  Richard  Hakluyt,  now  first  printed  from  a  contem- 
porary manuscript,  with  a  preface  and  an  introduction  by 
Leonard  Woods,  LL.D.  ;  edited  with  notes  in  an  appendix 
by  Charles  Deane  (Cambridge,  1877)."  The  appendix  occu- 
pies a  
third  of  the  volume.  The  task  with  Dr.  Woods  living 
was  delicately  performed  ;  and  when  the  original  editor  died, 
Mr.  Deane  paid  him  a  kindly  tribute,  in  January,  1879,  at  a 
meeting  of  our  Society. 
 - 107 - 
76  MASSACHUSETTS   HISTORICAL  SOCIETY.  [Nov. 
Another  result  of  Dr.  Woods's  visit  to  the  Phillipps  collec- 
tion had  been  the  procuring  of  a  letter  and  abstracts  of  other 
epistles  written  by  Edward  Randolph  while  he  was  gaining 
the  designation  of  being  "  the  evil  genius  of  New  England  "  ; 
and  these,  together  with  Randolph's  narrative,  in  a  better  copy 
than  had  been  printed  in  the  "  Andros  Tracts,"  Mr.  Deane 
communicated  to  our  Society  in  November,  1880.  These  were 
but  manifestations  of  the  study  which  he  had  long  given  to 
the  efforts  which  had  been  made  from  time  to  time  by  inter- 
ested persons  to  vacate  the  first  charter  of  Massachusetts  Bay. 
When  just  about  this  time  it  fell  to  the  present  writer  to  plan 
and  carry  forward  a  u  Memorial  History  of  Boston,"  in  recog- 
nition of  
the  completion  of  two  hundred  and  fifty  years  since 
the  founding  of  the  city  by  Winthrop,  its  editor  naturally 
turned  to  Mr.  Deane  to  elucidate  that  long  struggle  of  the 
Colony,  so  closely  connected  with  Boston  history,  to  thwart 
the  machinations  of  the  enemies  of  the  Colony,  and  to  pre- 
serve its  charter.  He  did  the  work  with  extreme  care  and 
with  patent  skill. 
When  two  years  later  the  same  editor  was  called  upon  to 
enter  into  a  much  larger  field  of  supervision,  by  bringing 
nearly  forty  writers  into  conjunction,  in  covering  in  a  mono- 
graphic and  critical  fashion  the  entire  range  of  American  his- 
tory, English,  French,  Spanish,  Dutch,  and  all  else,  as  well  as 
its  aboriginal  and  archaeological  aspects,  he  entered  upon  the 
task  with  the  full  recognition  of  the  lightening  of  his  labor 
which  he  could  expect  from  his  nearest  neighbor  and  friend, 
and  with  a  thorough  acquaintance  with  what  he  could  hope 
for  from  Mr.  Deane's  wonderfully  rich  library.  Such  environ- 
ments did  not  a  little  reconcile  me  to  the  formidableness  of 
the  task.  During  the  eight  years  while  it  occupied  my  at- 
tention, I  
never  failed  of  sympathy  and  encouragement,  and 
the  lawn  between  our  houses  had  its  path  which  was  almost 
daily  trod  to  his  study.  He  was  never  so  occupied  but  his 
pen  was  laid  down,  and  I  was  by  his  kindly  manner  invited  to 
make  my  levy  upon  his  manifold  resources.  It  has  been  a 
great  regret  to  me  that  he  did  not  live  to  see  the  work  com- 
pleted.    The  last  volume  never  fell  under  his  scrutiny. 
I  have  already  mentioned  how  I  turned  to  him  at  once  for 
the  elucidation  of  the  Cabot  voyages.  With  equal  confidence 
I  assigned  to  him  the  section  which  was  to  cover  the  history  of 
 - 108 - 
1891.]  MEMOIR   OF   CHARLES   DEANE.  77 
New  England  down  to  the  Revolution  of  Andros.  The  sur- 
vey which  he  made  in  the  critical  essay,  appended  to  the 
narrative,  of  the  original  as  well  as  secondary  sources  of  that 
history,  took  him  anew  over  a  ground  which  was  everywhere 
imprinted  with  his  own  footsteps. 
He  had  long  studied  Massachusetts  history  on  those  sides 
which  had  elicited  strictures  on  her  people  and  their  methods. 
He  stood  like  a  champion  where  he  thought  there  was  justice 
to  be  awarded,  and  he  dropped  the  screen  with  equal  facility 
if  he  felt  that  her  people  had  swerved  from  the  straightest 
paths.  The  whole  question  of  her  connection  with  the  en- 
slaving of  
negroes  found  its  culmination  for  him  in  the  Con- 
stitution of 1780,  and  in  the  relation  of  its  Bill  of  Rights 
to  the  evil  which  it  was  held  to  eradicate.  In  1860  he  had 
been  asked  to  consider  the  printed  report  of  the  Committee 
which  presented  a  form  of  constitution  for  Massachusetts  in 
1780.  He  well  knew,  as  every  student  of  our  State  history 
does  know,  how  the  question  of  the  abolishment  of  slavery 
within  its  borders  had  from  an  early  date  in  the  last  century 
been  the  subject  of  consideration  ; but  "  obstacles  and  em- 
barrassments," especially  in  the  time  of  the  royal  governors, 
stood  in  the  way.  In  September,  1868,  he  had  laid  before  the 
Society  a  communication,  which  is  still  on  file  at  the  State 
House,  and  which  the  Legislature  of  Massachusetts  had  in 
1777  —  the  year  following  the  Declaration  of  Independence 
—  prepared  for  bringing  the  question  to  the  notice  of  the  Con- 
gress at Philadelphia.  He  w^ell  knew  that  the  feeling  and 
the  sounding  phrase  which  embodied  it  —  namely,  that  all 
men  are  created  equal  —  was,  in  those  boiling  days  of  eman- 
cipation of thought,  common  enough  to  fill  the  air  and  be- 
come the  common  property  of  those  who  were  at  that  time 
framing  bills  of  rights  for  the  States  and  a  Declaration  of  In- 
dependence for the  land.  But  it  was  the  act  which  converted 
these  generalities  into  a  deed  of  enfranchisement  which  inter- 
ested Mr.  Deane.  When,  in  April,  1874,  Chief  Justice  Gray 
placed  before  this  Society  the  note-book  of  Chief  Justice  Cush- 
ing  on  the  case  of  the  Commonwealth  versus  Jennison,  where 
it  was  held  that  such  a  general  sentence  in  the  Massachusetts 
Bill  of  Rights  had  abolished  slavery  in  the  State,  the  question 
was  first  raised  at  our  meetings  of  the  tradition  which  assigned 
to  Judge  Lowell,  rather  than  to  John  Adams,  the  introduc- 
 - 109 - 
78  MASSACHUSETTS   HISTORICAL   SOCIETY.  [Nov. 
tion  of  that  all-powerful  phrase  into  the  Bill  of  Rights.  This 
led  to  Mr.  Deane's  paper  on  Judge  Lowell  and  the  Massachu- 
setts Bill  of  Rights,  in  which  he  traced  all  these  ebullitions  of 
fervor  back  to  the  prevailing  sentiments  which  the  opening 
scenes  of  the  Revolution  had  engendered. 
Mr.  Deane  also  contributed,  and  elucidated  with  preface  and 
notes,  a  mass  of  original  papers  respecting  slavery  in  Massa- 
chusetts, which  appeared  in  the  Collections  of  our  Society 
in  1877. 
One  of  the  last  of  the  elaborate  papers  which  Mr.  Deane 
wrote  was  embodied  in  the  Report  of  the  Council  of  the  Anti- 
quarian Society,  October,  1886,  in  which  he  reviewed  the  con- 
nection of  
Massachusetts  with  the  slave-trade  and  slavery.  It 
had  not  long  before  been  said  in  the  Senate  at  Washington,  in 
the  heat  of  political  debate,  that  "  Massachusetts  was  the 
nursing  mother  of  the  horrors  of  the  middle  passage."  A  law- 
yer who  was  his  neighbor  at  Cambridge  urged  Mr.  Deane  to 
reply  to  this  hazardous  charge  ;  
but  he  declined  the  task  in 
favor  of  his  friend.  Failing  health  prevented  this  friend  from 
bringing  his  studies  for  a  paper  to  a  conclusion,  and  Mr.  Deane 
finally  received  from  him  his  incomplete  essay.  Mr.  Deane 
now  entered  with  thoroughness  and  insight  upon  the  task  of 
tracing  the  rise  of  slavery  on  the  American  continent,  and  of 
the  hand  which  England  bore  in  creating  the  traffic  in  bond- 
men and  making  it  commercially  successful.  "  The  share 
which  Massachusetts  had  in  the  planting  of  slavery  in  the  New 
World,"  he  said,  "  was  but  a  drop  in  the  bucket  compared 
with  that  of  England."  He  made  no  concealment  of  the  busi- 
ness interests  which  were  promoted  by  the  traffic  in  Boston 
and  Salem  ;  
but  from  the  time  of  Samuel  Sewall,  at  least, 
"  there  was  always  a  protest  from  the  heart  of  the  people 
against  this  crime  to  humanity,  which  erelong  made  itself  felt 
as  a  controlling  influence  in  the  community." 
The  reputation  which  Mr.  Deane  has  left  behind  him  is  that 
of  an  historical  scholar  almost  peerless  among  his  American 
contemporaries,  if  we  separate  this  condition  from  that  of  a 
writer.  He  has  not  associated  his  name  with  any  great,  long- 
sustained  piece  of  historical  writing,  but  he  has  raised  as  a 
monument  of  his  labors  the  image  of  an  untiring  investigator,  a 
conscientious  painstaker  in  research,  and  an  exemplar  for  judi- 
 - 110 - 
1891.]  MEMOIR   OF   CHARLES   DEANE.  79 
cial  fairness.  There  was  no  topic  too  minute  for  his  thorough- 
ness. He  dearly  loved  to  drive  the  smallest  error  from  the 
field.  It  was  a  pleasure  for  him  to  rehabilitate  a  forgotten 
fact. 
I  have  often  heard  him  speak  of  one  of  the  earliest  of  the 
minor  investigations  which  he  had  made.  He  saved  all  the 
scraps,  correspondence,  and  prints  respecting  it,  and  had  them 
arranged  in  a  book.  He  seemed  to  look  upon  it  as  one  of  the 
primal  indications  of  his  spirit  of  minute  research,  and  on  his 
death-bed  expressed  a  wish  to  have  that  scrap-book  placed  in 
the  library  of  our  Society,  where  it  now  is.  An  attempt  had 
been  made  to  palm  off  a  portrait  of  Franklin  as  that  of  Roger 
Williams,  and  Mr.  Deane's  purpose  had  been  to  expose  the 
deceit.  I  remember  when,  many  years  afterward,  the  original 
fraud  was  again  brought  to  light  from  the  obscurity  to  which 
he  had  consigned  it,  how  his  old  interest  revived  as  once  more 
he  came  to  the  rescue  of  the  truth.  He  took  a  similar  interest 
in  the  deceit  which  was  practised  in  1772,  when  some  one  em- 
ployed Paul  Revere  to  engrave  a  likeness  of  Charles  Churchill, 
the  English  poet,  which  the  publisher  of  the  Newport  edition 
of  Church's  narrative  made  to  pass  for  a  picture  of  the  old 
Indian  fighter  by  having  a  powder-horn  slung  over  the  poet's 
shoulders.  The  fraud  had  been  observed  before  Mr.  Deane 
referred  to  it  in  1858  ;  
but  he  was  not  able  for  many  years  to 
put  in  juxtaposition  the  exact  print  from  which  Revere  must 
have  worked.  He  accidentally  discovered  it  in  an  old  maga- 
zine of  
1768  ;  and  he  was  led,  in  February,  1882,  to  bring  the 
matter  afresh  before  the  Historical  Society  with  the  completed 
proof  in  reproductions  of  the  two  engravings. 
When  Dr.  Palfrey  was  in  England  he  endeavored  to  dis- 
cover some  document  with  a  perfect  copy  of  the  seal  of  the 
Council  for  New  England,  and  Mr.  Deane  renewed  the  search 
at  a  later  day.  The  only  seal  known  was  a  fragment  patched 
together  which  hangs  from  the  patent  of  Plymouth  Colony 
preserved  in  the  Plymouth  archives.  As  I  saw  it  with  Mr. 
Deane  in  1882,  I  thought  two  men,  one  with  a  bow,  could  be 
made  out  as  part  of  the  device.  Dr.  Palfrey  at  a  much  earlier 
day  said  it  was  so  broken  and  defaced  that  the  design  was  un- 
distinguishable.  When  that  writer  issued  a  new  edition  of  his 
first  volume  in  1865,  he  gave  on  his  titlepage  as  the  seal  of  the 
Council  the  arms  which  appear  on  John  Smith's  map  of  New 
 - 111 - 
80  MASSACHUSETTS   HISTORICAL   SOCIETY.  [Nov. 
England  ;  
and  he  was  led  to  adopt  it  by  a  letter  of  Mr.  Deane's, 
dated  June  10,  1865,  which  foreshadowed  the  line  of  argu- 
ment in a  paper  which  was  printed  in  the  Proceedings  of  this 
Society  in  1867.  The  later  investigations  of  Mr.  Baxter,  of 
the  Maine  Historical  Society,  when  he  was  prompted  by 
another  fragment  found  in  the  "  Trelawny  Papers,"  threw 
considerable  doubt  on  the  correctness  of  Mr.  Deane's  earlier 
reasons  ;  and  in  the  last  paper  which  he  wrote  touching  the 
subject,  he  warned  his  readers  of  this  counter-presentation. 
It  is  hardly  necessary  to  cite  all  of  the  small  investigations 
with  which  Mr.  Deane  enriched  the  Proceedings  of  the  His- 
torical and  Antiquarian  Societies  for  many  years,  to  increase 
the  evidence  that  his  pertinacity  in  search  was  just  as  con- 
spicuous in  
small  as  in  great  matters.  It  will  be  seen  in  his 
communications  regarding  Phillis  Wheatley  (1863  and  1864)  ; 
in  his  supplying  (1864)  the  historical  associations  of  an  in- 
scribed plate  found  at  Castine,  commemorating  a  Capuchin 
mission  there  in  1648,  while  the  late  Charles  Folsom  supplied 
the  philological  test;  in  his  comments  (1866)  on  John  Wheel- 
wright's Fast  Day  sermon  of  1636-1637  ;  in  his  paper  on 
Washington's  headquarters  at  Cambridge  (September,  1872)  ; 
in  one  on  the  ancient  rules  of  Harvard  College  (1876)  ;  in 
another  on  an  indenture  of  David  Thomson,  a  contribution 
(1876)  to  the  early  history  of  Piscataqua  ;  
in  his  remarks  on 
the  genuineness  of  the  Verrazano  letter  before  the  Antiquarian 
Society,  in  January,  1876  ;  
in  the  part  which  he  took  (1877- 
1878)  in  the  lively  controversy  over  the  identity  of  the  belfry 
where  Paul  Revere  hung  his  lantern  on  the  eve  of  the  affairs 
at  Lexington  and  Concord  ;  
in  his  introduction  to  Dr.  Bel- 
knap's Journal  of  his  tour  (1876)  ;  
in  that  to  his  edition  (1878) 
of  the  Journal  of  the  President  and  Council  of  New  Hampshire  ; 
in  his  remarks  (1878)  on  the  diary  of  Henry  Flynt,  the  old 
college  tutor;  in  his  comments  (1880)  on  the  petition  for  a 
grant  of  land  from  Roger  Conant  in  his  old  age  ;  
in  his  eager 
recital  (1883)  about  what  remains  of  the  old  American  library 
of  White-Kennett  ;  
in  his  story  (1885)  of  the  kidnapping  by 
the  old  navigator  Waymouth  in  1605  of  Indians  on  the  Maine 
coast  ;  and  in  the  curious  researches  which  he  made  to  estab- 
lish the  priority  of  the  two  editions  of  the  map  of  New  Eng- 
land in  
Hubbard's  History  (1887-1888). 
No  one  knew  better  than   Mr.  Deane  what  the   perils  of 
 - 112 - 
1891.]  MEMOIR   OF   CHARLES   DEANE.  81 
investigation  are,  and  how  a  tendency  to  jump  at  conclusions 
must  be  resisted.  In  reading  the  reports  of  some  of  the  papers 
on  anthropology  read  at  a  meeting  of  the  American  Associa- 
tion for  
the  Advancement  of  Science,  held  at  Chicago  in  1868, 
his  historic  sense  had  been  wronged  by  some  of  their  hasty 
processes  ;  and  he  took  occasion,  in  preparing  the  Report  of  the 
Council  of  the  Antiquarian  Society  in  that  year,  to  draw  atten- 
tion to this  unsteady  tendency.  "  Men  must  be  trained,"  he 
said,  "  to  be  careful  observers  of  facts,  without  which  no  sys- 
tem can  stand.  It  is  natural  for  the  human  mind  to  ask  ques- 
tions and  to  form  theories  upon  such  new  facts  presented  to  it, 
and,  indeed,  in  this  way  is  knowledge  increased,  and  true  sci- 
ence finally  attained  ; but  the  difficulty  is  that  in  all  investi- 
gations of this  nature  there  are  those  who  assume  the  facts 
to  be  proved,  and  then  proceed  to  construct  crude  theories 
upon  them."  Nor  did  he  undervalue  the  labor  of  all  good 
work.  I  remember  how  on  a  visit  which  I  made  with  him  to 
Plymouth  in  company  with  a  number  of  young  students,  he 
surprised  us  all,  when  we  sat  in  the  hotel  parlor  waiting  for 
our  dinner,  after  we  had  been  the  rounds  of  the  sights  in  the 
town,  by  taking  from  his  pocket  half  a  dozen  of  the  little  thin 
tracts  illustrating  the  early  history  of  the  Pilgrims,  which 
he  had  brought  from  his  own  shelves.  He  took  them  one  by 
one  and  explained  their  value,  and  showed  how  it  was  by 
arduous  critical  analysis  and  by  comparison  of  statements 
that  the  truth  was  worked  out.  He  felt  that  the  layman 
had  no  conception  of  this,  when  he  read  the  finished  paper 
of  the  historian.  He  expressed  himself  upon  this  point  in 
what  he  said  upon  the  death  of  Mr.  Frothingham  :  "  Per- 
sons not  familiar  with  investigations  of  this  nature  are  not 
aware  of  the  amount  of  labor  involved  ; the  mass  of  documents 
to  be  collected,  read,  and  digested,  —  such  as  orderly  books 
[he  was  referring  to  Mr.  Frothingham's  particular  field  of 
study],  letters,  depositions,  newspapers,  old  half-effaced  rec- 
ords,— from  these  to  sift  out  the  evidence,  arrange  it,  and 
bring  order  out  of  chaos  :  all  this  is  no  ordinary  labor."  He 
was  also  fond  of  referring  to  that  sort  of  microscopical  inquiry 
without  which  sometimes  important  bibliographical  decision 
could  not  be  reached.  He  was  never  quite  content  with  a 
book  that  was  in  any  way  cardinal  in  such  investigations,  un- 
less he could  find  a  copy  in  the  original  binding.     "  Books  are 
11 
 - 113 - 
82  MASSACHUSETTS   HISTORICAL   SOCIETY.  [Nov. 
robbed  of  their  integrity,"  he  said  at  one  time;  "  and  those  vol- 
umes for  which  the  robbery  is  made,  owing  to  ignorance  or  in- 
difference, are  often  supplied  with  illustrations  —  maps  and 
plates  —  which  do  not  belong  to  them.  This  is  an  evil  greatly 
to  be  deplored,  for  historical  investigation  is  often  thwarted 
by  the  existence  of  such  books."  He  kept  a  good  array  of 
dictionaries  and  glossaries  at  his  side,  and  I  have  known  him 
stop  to  trace  the  archaic  use  of  a  word  upon  which  some  his- 
torical elucidation  depended.  I  remember  once  he  took  me 
into  his  counsels  to  determine  whether  the  word  "  church  " 
in  a  certain  connection  meant  the  edifice  or  the  body  of  wor- 
shippers. "  
Misapprehension  and  errors  arise,"  he  said,  "  by 
not  paying  sufficient  attention  to  the  meaning  of  words  and 
terms  as  they  are  found  in  old  books." 
His  honesty  in  research  was  unimpeachable.  No  matter 
what  his  preconceived  notions,  his  local  pride,  his  friendly  in- 
terest, his  national  predilections,  they  all  stood  for  nothing  in 
his  quest  for  the  truth.  There  is  a  conspicuous  example  of  this 
kind  of  historical  bravery  in  the  paper  —  on  the  Convention 
of  Saratoga,  between  Gates  and  Burgoyne,  and  the  way  in 
which  the  American  Congress  observed  its  terms  —  which  he 
gave  to  the  Antiquarian  Society  in  1877. 
All  these  traits  could  but  give  him  the  highest  position  as 
an  historical  student  with  all  who  had  occasion  to  track  him  in 
his  work.  Mr.  Winthrop,  in  his  oration  at  Plymouth  in  1870, 
did  not  give  him  too  high  praise  when  he  placed  him  almost 
above  all  others,  for  the  light  he  had  thrown  upon  the  early 
history  of  New  England  ;  and  Mr.  Charles  Francis  Adams,  Jr., 
in  his  editing  of  Morton's  "  New  English  Canaan,"  while  cit- 
ing a  production  of  Mr.  Deane's,  is  not  likely  to  be  criticised 
for  saying  that  "  in  dealing  with  the  sources  of  history  it  is 
only  permissible  to  refer  to  contemporaneous  authorities." 
"  Mr.  Deane,  however,"  he  adds,  rt  so  far  as  New  England  his- 
tory is  
concerned,  may  fairly  be  made  an  exception  to  this  rule. 
His  knowledge  is  so  exhaustive,  and  his  accuracy  is  so  great, 
that  a  reference  to  him  I  consider  just  as  good  and  as  permis- 
sible as  a  reference  to  the  original  authorities." 
Mr.  Deane  was  a  man  of  strong  friendships,  and  in  his  later 
years  he  liked  to  recall  his  old  friends.  He  looked  back  upon 
his  intimacy  with  George  Livermore  as  having  almost  a  for- 
 - 114 - 
1891.]  MEMOIR   OF   CHARLES   DEANE.  83 
mative  influence  upon  him.  His  intercourse  with  Mr.  Liver- 
more  went  back  to  about  1844,  and  it  was  one  of  the  earliest 
of  those  which  he  formed  on  the  ground  of  intellectual  sym- 
pathies. He  
was  attracted  toward  his  friend,  as  he  afterward 
recorded,  *  by  his  loving  and  genial  nature,  his  general  intel- 
ligence, his  
historical  tastes,  and  his  great  love  for  books."  For 
many  years  he  and  Mr.  Livermore  were  accustomed  to  make 
an  annual  visit  together  to  the  patriarchal  Josiah  Quincy  at 
his  country  home  ;  and  he  speaks,  in  his  memoir  of  Mr.  Liver- 
more  (1869),  of  his  friend's  "almost  romantic  admiration  for 
the  heroic  qualities"  of  their  host. 
Mr.  Edward  A.  Crowninshield  was  another  of  these  early 
friends;  but  at  his  death,  in  1859,  Mr.  Deane  failed  of  an  op- 
portunity to  
acquire  some  memorial  of  him  from  his  library, 
because  it  was  sold  as  a  whole  and  went  to  Europe.  It  was 
not  long,  however,  before  two  much  desired  and  extremely  rare 
books  returned  to  this  country,  and  found  their  way  into  Mr. 
Deane's  library.  These  were  books  that  he  often  showed  with 
satisfaction,  —  Elder  Cushman's  Sermon,  delivered  at  Ply- 
mouth in 1621  ;  and  the  1582  edition  of  Hakluyt.  At  a  much 
later  date  (1880),  Mr.  Deane  wrote  a  brief  memoir  of  his  friend 
for  our  Proceedings. 
Another  early  friend  was  the  late  Mr.  John  Russell  Bartlett, 
who  was  a  bookseller  in  New  York,  when  about  1846  he  and 
Mr.  Deane  became  acquainted.  At  a  later  day,  when  Mr. 
Bartlett  was  the  custodian  of  the  great  Carter-Brown  library 
in  Providence,  that  collection  became  a  new  bond  of  common 
interest  between  them. 
It  was  in  October,  1849,  that  Mr.  Savage,  then  President 
of  this  Society,  welcomed  Mr.  Deane  into  the  communion 
of  its  members.  Mr.  Savage  was  then  preparing  his  great 
Dictionary  ;  and  a  file  of  letters  among  Mr.  Deane's  papers 
shows  the  constancy  of  the  great  genealogist's  new  friend  in 
his  efforts  to  help  the  elder  student  in  his  work.  When  in 
March,  1873,  Mr.  Deane  recalled  the  Society  as  it  was  at  the 
time  of  his  becoming  a  member,  of  the  fifty-eight  upon  its  roll 
at  the  time  of  his  own  election  only  eighteen  were  living  at 
Mr.  Savage's  death.  Mr.  Deane,  in  his  remarks  on  this  com- 
memoration of  
their  former  president,  tersely  put  his  impres- 
sions of  his  old  friend  and  his  almost  oppressive  spirit  of 
accuracy  :  "  He  always  meant  to  be  right;  he  always  felt  that 
 - 115 - 
84  MASSACHUSETTS   HISTORICAL   SOCIETY.  [Nov. 
he  was  right ;  
he  took  nothing  upon  trust."  In  1874  he  pre- 
pared a  
brief  notice  of  Mr.  Savage  for  the  Transactions  of  the 
American  Academy. 
The  death  of  Mr.  Haven,  in  1881,  came  very  near  to  Mr. 
Deane.  At  a  meeting  of  the  Antiquarian  Society  in  October 
of  that  year,  he  spoke  more  at  length  of  the  loss  than  he  was 
accustomed  to  do  on  such  occasions.  "  A  feeling  of  sadness 
sometimes  comes  over  me  at  these  annual  gatherings,"  he  said, 
"  occasioned  by  the  absence  from  time  to  time  of  familiar 
faces.  One  by  one  they  vanish,  and  the  places  that  knew 
them  know  them  no  more.  It  is  now  more  than  twenty-five 
years  since  I  first  began  to  attend  these  meetings,  having  been 
elected  a  member  here  thirty  years  ago  this  day ;  and  the 
Boston  members  —  Mr.  Folsom,  Mr.  Livermore,  Mr.  Frothing- 
ham,  and  Dr.  Shurtleff,  all  of  whom,  alas  !  have  passed  on  — 
always  regarded  the  21st  of  October  as  a  red-letter  day  in 
their  calendar,  and  came  up  hither  as  on  a  sacred  pilgrimage. 
For  a  number  of  years  we  always  met  here,  and  received  a 
cordial  welcome  from  the  venerable  Governor  Lincoln,  Judge 
Barton,  Judge  Chapin,  Judge  Thomas,  and  others  whom  I 
need  not  name."  In  1885  Mr.  Deane  contributed  a  memoir  of 
Mr.  Haven  to  the  Proceedings  of  our  Society.  Of  Mr.  Froth- 
ingham,  whom  he  thus  recalled,  he  had  spoken  to  us  on  the 
announcement  of  his  death  in  February,  1880,  and  printed  a 
memoir  in  the  "Proceedings"  of  February,  1885.  There  were 
two  others  of  our  members  of  whom  Mr.  Deane  could  write 
with  full  knowledge  ;  and  these  were  Dr.  Appleton,  whom  he 
commemorated  in  1877,  and  Dr.  Robbins,  who  claimed  the 
tribute  in  1882. 
Another  Cambridge  friend  of  the  days  before  the  war  was  one 
in  whose  labors  he  and  I  had  a  common  interest;  and  he  spoke 
to  me  more  frequently  of  him,  perhaps,  than  of  most  others 
whom  he  had  known  in  the  earlier  part  of  his  career,  because 
of  my  own  studies  in  the  same  field.  This  was  Dr.  Kohl, 
who  did  in  Cambridge  a  considerable  part  of  his  work  on  the 
treatises  which  he  prepared  for  the  Coast  Survey  touching  early 
discoveries  along  the  American  coasts.  He  had  depended  not 
a  little,  as  his  work  proceeded,  on  Mr.  Deane's  encouragement 
and  assistance,  and  on  the  help  which  he  derived  from  the 
unmatched  collection  of  maps  in  the  College  Library.  At  a 
later  day,  when  he  recalled  how  the  financial  troubles  of  1857 
 - 116 - 
1891.]  MEMOIR   OF   CHARLES   DEANE.  85 
made  the  government  indisposed  to  go  on  with  the  task  of 
illustrating  the  early  discoveries  through  Dr.  Kohl's  instru- 
mentality, he  
spoke  of  the  good  German's  distress  of  mind 
at  being  thus  checked  in  his  work,  and  said  that  his  friend 
returned  to  Germany  almost  broken-hearted.  "  His  beautiful 
maps,  some  of  which  I  have  seen  at  Washington,  are  now 
uncared  for ;  and  it  is  only  by  a  knowledge  of  these  old  and 
useless  maps  [as  he  described  the  originals  of  Kohl's  copies] 
that  the  history  of  geography  and  discovery  can  be  written."  It 
was  by  sharing  these  views  of  the  value  of  such  cartographical 
records,  that  while  engaged  in  kindred  studies  I  was  brought 
into  conferences  about  them  with  Mr.  Deane  at  different  times, 
and  finally  determined  to  make  an  examination  of  Kohl's  work. 
Mr.  Deane  had  referred  to  it  in  a  report  to  the  Antiquarian 
Society  in  1860,  and  he  had  expressed  a  hope  that  the  results 
of  Kohl's  investigations,  as  they  existed  in  his  elaborate  copies 
of  old  maps  and  in  the  treatises  accompanying  them,  —  one  of 
which  had  come  into  the  possession  of  that  Society,  —  might 
not  be  lost  to  the  world.  Later  in  October,  1869,  the  same 
Society  sought  to  initiate  measures  to  induce  the  government 
to  publish  these  memorials;  but  Mr.  Deane,  knowing  how  the 
science  of  historical  cartography  had  then  begun  to  grow 
rapidly,  and  aware,  from  the  correspondence  which  he  kept 
up  with  Dr.  Kohl,  that  that  gentleman  had  himself  outgrown 
some  of  his  earty  studies,  urged  that  nothing  should  be  pub- 
lished till  Dr.  Kohl  had  had  the  opportunity  to  revise  his 
work.  Nothing,  however,  was  done  ;  and  in  1878  it  became 
Mr.  Deane's  duty  to  speak  in  his  memory  at  a  meeting  of  this 
Society,  when  he  read  from  the  last  letter  which  he  had 
received  from  that  German  geographer. 
Now  that  no  chance  of  revision  was  possible  by  their  author, 
arrangements  were  made  by  which  the  collection  of  maps  in 
the  State  Department  at  Washington  was  for  an  interval 
transferred  to  the  College  Library  in  Cambridge,  and  I  began 
the  study  of  the  charts  and  the  notes  attached,  which  resulted 
in  a  published  calendar  of  the  collection  (1886).  Mr.  Deane 
followed  me  in  this  labor  with  much  interest  ;  and  the  maps 
seemed  to  him  like  old  friends,  reviving  his  recollections  of 
the  days  when  he  used  to  visit  Kohl's  studio  in  Cambridge 
and  watch  his  labors. 
There  had  been  great  advances  in  this  comparative  study  of 
 - 117 - 
86  MASSACHUSETTS   HISTORICAL   SOCIETY.  [Nov. 
historical  geography  since  Dr.  Kohl  did  his  work,  and  it  was 
very  apparent,  both  to  me  and  to  Mr.  Deane,  that  while  the 
drawings  were  still  valuable  in  so  far  as  they  preserved  maps 
in  European  collections  which  had  not  been  published,  the 
notes  which  Dr.  Kohl  had  annexed  to  them  needed  too  much 
revision  to  be  available  for  publication.  We  procured  from 
Worcester  the  section  of  the  written  study  of  these  topics 
which  the  Antiquarian  Society  possessed,  and  it  stood  the 
advanced  tests  of  improved  scholarship  no  better  ;  and  it  was 
with  some  sorrow  that  Mr.  Deane  as  well  as  I  saw  mean- 
while that  the  Coast  Survey  in  1884  published  one  of  Dr. 
Kohl's  memoirs  remaining  in  their  hands.  It  was  an  injus- 
tice to  
its  author's  memory  to  make  known  at  that  time  what 
he  had  written  thirty  years  before. 
Harvard  College  conferred  upon  Mr.  Deane  the  degree  of 
Master  of  Arts  in  1856  ;  and  when  the  University  celebrated 
its  two  hundred  and  fiftieth  anniversary  in  1886,  and  repre- 
sentative men  from  all  parts  of  the  country  were  called  to  her 
festival  to  receive  honor  at  her  hands,  Mr.  Deane  stood  up  be- 
fore the  assembly,  and  received  from  President  Eliot  the  des- 
ignation of "  antiquary  and  historian,  a  master  among  students 
of  American  history,"  while  he  was  made  a  Doctor  of  Laws. 
Bowdoin  had  conferred  the  same  degree  upon  him  in  1871. 
As  early  as  1853  he  had  been  chosen  into  the  Harvard  Chap- 
ter of  
the  Phi  Beta  Kappa  Society. 
Mr.  Deane  was  made  a  member  of  the  Massachusetts  Histor- 
ical Society  in  October,  1849  ;  and  when  Mr.  Winthrop  be- 
came President  in  1855,  he  was  the  chairman  of  the  Standing 
Committee.  It  was  the  dawn  of  a  new  life  in  the  Society. 
"  I  well  remember,"  he  said  at  a  later  day,  "  the  time  and 
labor  spent  in  the  attempt  to  bring  order  out  of  chaos."  He 
had  been  on  the  Publishing  Committee  earlier,  but  this  year 
was  signalized  by  his  triumph  with  the  manuscript  of  Bradford. 
He  and  the  President  were  instrumental  at  this  time  in  print- 
ing an  issue  of  the  proceedings  of  a  single  meeting  (April  12, 
1855)  ;  and  by  so  doing  they  established  a  prototype  for  the 
printed  series  of  such  publications,  which  was  not  regularly 
begun  till  1858.  The  Dowse  library  soon  came  to  our  Society  ; 
and  Mr.  Deane  was  as  active  in  giving  a  proper  arrangement  to 
it  as  he  was  in  settling  the  preliminaries  of  printing  the  cata- 
 - 118 - 
1891.]  MEMOIR    OF   CHARLES    DEANE.  87 
logue  of  the  Society's  library.  In  1863  he  became  chairman  of 
the  committee  on  publishing  the  Proceedings  ;  and  for  a  scries 
of  fourteen  years  his  interest  never  flagged,  and  his  ripened 
scholarship  permeated  nearly  all  that  the  Society  printed  in 
this  form.  In  the  tribute  which  he  paid  to  Dr.  Robbing,  lie 
recalled  this  happy  assiduity.  "  Almost  any  day  at  high 
noon,"  he  said,  "  we  two  were  quite  likely  to  meet  at  the 
rooms,  and  to  be  joined  by  the  President  and  other  officers  and 
members,  when  the  interests  of  the  Society  were  considered, 
and  kindred  themes  discussed."  A  new  committee  in  1878 
taking  charge,  they  referred  to  his  labors  in  saying  that  "  nine 
volumes  issued  under  his  supervision  within  fourteen  years 
attest  his  unwearied  industry,  his  scrupulous  accuracy,  and 
the  soundness  of  his  judgment  on  historical  questions."  But 
his  services  were  not  to  be  dispensed  with.  He  was  in  April, 
1878,  named,  with  the  Treasurer  of  the  Society,  to  prepare  the 
earlier  proceedings  for  publication  ;  and  in  1879-1880  the  two 
volumes  which  completed  the  monthly  record  of  the  Society's 
activity  previous  to  1858  were  published,  showing  in  their 
notes  and  memoirs  the  useful  contributions  of  the  editors  in 
their  harmonious  labors.  In  1884  he  did  his  final  service  on 
the  Society's  Collections,  by  editing  the  Trumbull  Papers.  In 
June,  1886,  he  took  great  pleasure  in  welcoming  the  members 
at  his  own  house  in  Cambridge;  and  as  a  part  of^the  enter- 
tainment he  
laid  before  them  a  number  of  letters  of  Dr. 
Priestley  addressed  to  the  Hon.  George  Thacher.  v 
His  connection  with  the  American  Antiquarian  Society  was 
only  less  intimate  than  that  with  the  Historical  Society.  In 
1850  he  met  Mr.  Haven,  the  Secretary  of  the  Society,  at  Mr. 
Livermore's  house,  and  they  talked  together  of  the  rise  of  the 
Massachusetts  Company,  —  a  subject  which  Mr.  Haven  had  just 
illustrated  by  printing  in  the  Proceedings  of  the  Society  the 
records  of  that  company.  It  led  to  a  correspondence,  and  on 
Oct.  23,  1851,  Mr.  Deane  was  chosen  a  member  of  the  Society. 
In  1856  he  became  a  member  of  the  Publishing  Committee, 
and  never  through  the  rest  of  his  life  relaxed  his  labors  in  its 
behalf.  In  1860  he  made  for  the  first  time  the  report  of  this 
committee,  in  which  he  gave  a  review  of  the  manuscript 
material  in  the  Society's  cabinet.  In  1865  he  became  a  mem- 
ber of  
the  Council,  and  in  1880  he  succeeded  George  Bancroft 
as  the  Secretary  for  Domestic  Correspondence,  holding  both 
 - 119 - 
88  MASSACHUSETTS   HISTORICAL   SOCIETY.  [Nov. 
offices  till  his  death.  For  the  last  ten  years  of  his  life,  I 
was  his  companion  on  his  visits  to  Worcester  to  attend  the 
annual  meetings,  and  he  allowed  nothing  to  stand  in  the  way 
of  his  pilgrimage. 
He  was  made  a  member  of  the  London  Society  of  Anti- 
quaries in  
1878. 
He  became  promptly  a  member  of  the  American  Historical 
Association  when  it  was  organized  at  Saratoga  in  1884,  and  he 
valued  the  opportunity  which  he  had  at  its  sessions  of  meet- 
ing persons  interested  in  researches  kindred  to  his  own,  com- 
ing from  every  part  of  the  country.  It  seemed  to  broaden  his 
conceptions  ;  and  the  younger  members  of  the  Association  will 
bear  testimony  to  the  kindly  interest  which  he  never  shrank 
from  showing  in  them. 
He  was  a  member  of  many  other  American  historical 
societies,  —  the  New  England  Historic,  Genealogical  Society 
(elected  in  1845)  ;  the  Rhode  Island  Historical  Society 
(1847)  ;  the  New  York  Historical  Society  (1852)  ;  the  New- 
port Historical  Society  (1854)  ;  the  Wisconsin  Historical  So- 
ciety (1856)  ;  the  Maryland  Historical  Society  (1868);  the 
Long  Island  Historical  Society  (1868)  ;  the  Maine  Historical 
Society  (1870)  ;  the  Virginia  Historical  Society  (1881)  and 
the  Essex  Institute  (1887).  He  was  chosen  into  the  Ameri- 
can Academy  of  Arts  and  Sciences  in  1866. 
Toward  the  end  of  his  life  he  began  to  show  that  his  years 
had  an  increasing  weight,  but  he  did  not  relax  his  interest  in 
his  studies.  In  February,  1888,  he  drew  the  attention  of  the 
Historical  Society  to  an  old  tract,  William  Morrell's  "  New 
England,  or  a  briefe  Enarration,"  and  had  intended  to  edit  a 
reprint  of  it  for  the  current  volume  of  the  Society's  Proceed- 
ings ;  
but  in  May,  1889,  he  had  to  signify  to  the  Committee  that 
his  strength  was  not  equal  to  it.  "  His  life,"  said  the  Com- 
mittee in  
their  preface  in  accounting  for  the  failure,  "  has  been 
full  and  rich  and  fruitful  during  his  membership  here  for  nearly 
half  a  century."  He  had  already,  at  the  preceding  meeting  in 
April,  1889,  announced  his  completion  of  the  last  work  which 
he  did  among  the  Society's  manuscripts,  when  he  gave  notice 
that  the  Cabinet  would  not  yield  sufficient  material  to  consti- 
tute a  
memorial  volume  respecting  the  centenary  of  the  Con- 
stitution of  
the  United  States,  then  in   men's   minds.     The 
 - 120 - 
1891.]  MEMOIR   OF   CHARLES   DEANE.  89 
meeting  when  he  made  this  announcement  was  the  last  which 
he  attended.  His  friends,  and  particularly  the  Society's  libra- 
rian, Dr.  Green,  with  his  professional  eye,  saw  that  a  change 
was  upon  him.  He  was  urged  not  to  attempt  to  attend  the 
customary  reception  at  the  President's  house,  and  went  at 
once  to  Cambridge.  I  saw  him  a  few  weeks  later,  on  return- 
ing from  a  journey,  and  found  his  interest  in  the  Society  still 
unflagging,  and  he  was  eager  to  listen  to  a  brief  recital  of  my 
wanderings.  He  soon  became  worse,  and  I  saw  him  but  a 
few  times  more.  He  died  on  the  13th  of  November,  1889, 
having  just  completed  his  seventy-sixth  year  ;  and  on  the 
next  day  the  President  at  a  meeting  of  this  Society  briefly 
spoke  of  the  deep  shadow  which  pervaded  the  room  where  the 
presence  of  their  first  Vice-President  had  been  so  long  a  bene- 
ficent satisfaction. 
In  October  the  Council  of  the  Antiquarian  Society  had 
passed  at  their  annual  meeting  resolutions  of  sympathy  and 
respect,  and  had  sent  them  to  his  family.  When  news  reached 
his  Worcester  friends  of  his  death,  the  Council  again  convened, 
and  after  a  tribute  from  the  President,  Mr.  Stephen  Salisbury, 
in  which  it  was  observed  that  Mr.  Deane  was  the  sixth  in  senior- 
ity at  
the  time  of  his  death,  Senator  Hoar  spoke  of  him  as  the 
acknowledged  chief  and  arbiter  in  historical  knowledge,  and 
of  his  great  readiness  to  render  aid  to  others.  On  December  3, 
at  the  house  of  Mr.  Robert  C.  Winthrop,  Jr.,  the  Historical 
Society  met  to  pay  their  last  tribute  ;  and  the  printed  record 
shows  the  way  in  which  his  old  friends  and  his  younger  asso- 
ciates united  in  their  affectionate  remembrances. 
12 
 - 121 - 
90  MASSACHUSETTS  HISTOEICAL  SOCIETY.  [Nov. 
MEMOIR 
OP 
REV.   HENRY  MARTYN  DEXTEK,  D.D.,  LL.D. 
BY  JOHN  E.   SANFORD. 
Henry  Martyn  Dexter  was  born  in  Plympton,  Plymouth 
County,  Massachusetts,  on  August  13,  1821.  On  the  paternal 
side  he  appears  to  have  been  a  descendant,  in  the  sixth  gen- 
eration, from  Thomas  Dexter.  This  ancestor,  often  called 
"  Farmer  "  Dexter,  was  a  prominent  colonist  at  Sagus  (Lynn) 
in  1630,  and  probably  had  come  from  England  in  the  large 
immigration  headed  by  Winthrop  and  Dudley.  He  was  ad- 
mitted a  
freeman  of  the  Massachusetts  Colony  on  May  18, 
1631.  He  bought  the  peninsula  of  Nahant  from  the  Indian 
sachem  Poquannum  for  a  suit  of  clothes,  but  later  was  obliged 
to  surrender  it.  In  1637  he  helped  to  found  what  is  now 
Sandwich.  Afterward  he  owned  property  in  Barnstable,  died 
in  Boston,  and  probably  was  buried  in  the  tomb,  in  the  King's 
Chapel  burying-ground,  subsequently  associated  with  the 
names  of  John  Cotton  and  John  Davenport.  His  descendants 
multiplied  in  Southeastern  Massachusetts,  where  his  name 
is  still  common. 
Dr.  Dexter's  father,  the  Rev.  Elijah  Dexter,  —  a  native  ot 
Rochester,  Massachusetts,  where  he  was  born  Sept.  1,  1786, 
and  a  graduate  of  Brown  University,  then  called  Rhode 
Island  College,  in  1806, —  was  pastor  of  the  Congregational 
Church  (for  most  of  the  time  the  only  church)  in  Plympton 
from  Jan.  17,  1809,  to  May  14,  1851  —  more  than  forty-two 
years. 
Dr.  Dexter's  mother  was  Mary  Morton,  a  lineal  descendant, 
in  the  sixth  generation,  from  George  Morton,  who,  having 
been  active  in  the  fellowship  of  the  Pilgrims  in  England  and 
Holland,  came  to  join  them  at  Plymouth  in  the  "  Ann  "  in 
 - 122 - 
&QJfIg)f> 
 - 123 - 
 - 124 - 
1891.]  MEMOIR   OF   REV.    HENRY   MARTYN   DEXTER.  91 
1623  :  who  superintended  the  publication  of,  and  wrote  the 
introduction  to,  the  volume  concerning  them,  which,  because 
of  his  connection  with  it,  is  known  as  "  Mourt's  Relation  "  ; 
and  who  died  in  less  than  a  year  after  reaching  Plymouth. 
Mrs.  Dexter  was  the  sister  of  Gov.  Marcus  Morton,  and  was 
known  widely  in  Southeastern  Massachusetts  as  an  educa- 
tor of  
young  women,  and  for  her  eminent  culture  and  piety. 
Dr.  Dexter  inherited  the  interest  in  the  Pilgrims  and  their 
work  which  he  exhibited  so  conspicuously  in  his  later  years. 
With  the  exception  of  one  brother,  seven  years  his  elder, 
he  was  the  only  child  of  his  parents  who  survived  beyond 
infancy;  and  his  own  health  was  delicate  during  his  boyhood. 
He  had  not  many  companions.  He  had  access  to  few  books 
excepting  the  contents  of  his  father's  small  library,  and  most 
of  these  had  little  interest  for  him.  He  was  fitted  for  college 
chiefly  at  home,  his  father  following  the  then  not  uncommon 
practice  of  eking  out  a  slender  and  tardily  paid  salary  by 
teaching.  He  entered  Brown  University  in  1836,  at  the  age 
of  only  fifteen,  and  with  what  he  found  to  be  a  somewhat  im- 
perfect preparation.  Among  his  classmates  were  George  F. 
Brown,  afterward  Chief  Justice  of  Rhode  Island;  William 
Gaston,  since  Governor  of  Massachusetts;  Heman  Lincoln, 
later  a  professor  in  Brown  University  ;  William  N.  Sage,  who 
became  the  eminent  benefactor  of  Rochester  University  ; 
Samuel  G.  Arnold,  and  Prof.  J.  R.  Boise. 
At  the  end  of  the  Sophomore  year,  his  brother  having  decided 
to  study  theology  at  New  Haven,  Dr.  Dexter  transferred  himself 
to  Yale,  where  he  graduated  in  1840.  His  brother,  however, 
died  before  reaching  New  Haven.  Among  Dr.  Dexter' s  class- 
mates there  were  Henry  Booth,  afterward  Chancellor  of  the 
Law  Department  of  Chicago  University  ;  
William  Chauvenet, 
later  a  professor  in  the  United  States  Naval  Academy  and  the 
University  of  St.  Louis  ;  George  H.  Colton,  the  author  of  "  Te- 
cumseh,"  and  the  founder  of  the  "  American  Whig  Review  "  ; 
Henry  M.  Goodwin,  a  professor  in  Olivet  College  ;  
Samuel 
Gregory,  the  pioneer  in  promoting  the  medical  education  of 
women  ;  John  P.  Gulliver,  who  became  president  of  Knox 
College,  and  subsequently  a~professor  in  Andover  Theological 
Seminary  ;  
Gideon  H.  Hollister,  the  historian  of  Connecticut; 
James  M.  Hoppin,  afterward  a  professor  in  the  Yale  Theo- 
logical Seminary  and  the  Yale  Art  School  ;  
Joseph  G.  Hoyt, 
 - 125 - 
92  MASSACHUSETTS  HISTORICAL   SOCIETY.  [Nov. 
Chancellor  of  Washington  University  ;  
Charles  R.  Ingersoll, 
since  Governor  of  Connecticut  ;  
Gen.  Lewis  Parsons  ;  George 
Thacher,  who  became  president  of  Iowa  University  ;  and  the 
late  Chief  Justice  Elias  H.  Williams,  of  Iowa.  Dr.  Dexter 
was  one  of  the  founders  of  the  Yale  chapter  of  the  Psi  Up- 
silon  fraternity.  He  took  good  rank  as  a  scholar  at  both 
Brown  and  Yale. 
He  had  taught  school  during  the  summer  jnterval  between 
his  leaving  Brown  and  entering  Yale,  and  had  partly  sup- 
ported himself  by  teaching  while  at  New  Haven.  After 
graduation  he  spent  a  year  as  principal  of  the  then  well-known 
academy  in  Rochester,  Massachusetts,  the  home  of  his  pater- 
nal grandfather,  and  afterward  entered  the  Andover  Theo- 
logical Seminary,  where  he  graduated  in  due  coarse  in  the 
summer  of  1844.  Among  his  contemporaries  and  friends  at 
Andover,  although  they  were  not  all  his  classmates,  were 
President  Samuel  C.  Bartlett,  D.D.,  of  Dartmouth  College; 
President  George  F.  Magoun,  D.D.,  of  Iowa  College  ;  
Prof. 
W.  G.  T.  Shedd,  D.D.,  of  Union  Theological  Seminary;  Rev. 
Richard  S.  Storrs,  D.D.  ;  and  Frederick  Vinton,  long  the  libra- 
rian of  
Princeton  College.  Dr.  Dexter  was  a  leader  among 
his  associates,  and  during  his  Senior  year  was  president  of  the 
Porter  Rhetorical  Society. 
As  was  natural,  in  view  of  his  ancestry  and  training,  he 
determined  to  enter  the  ministry.  At  the  close  of  his  course 
at  Andover  he  was  elected,  as  Abbot  Resident,  to  spend  a 
fourth  year  at  the  seminary  in  post-graduate  study,  but  he 
decided  not  to  remain.  The  claims  of  foreign  missions  in- 
fluenced him  powerfully  at  this  time,  but  his  duty  to  work  in 
his  own  land  seemed  clear.  In  view  of  his  subsequent  emi- 
nence as  a  representative  Congregationalist,  it  is  worth  noting 
also  that  for  a  while  he  felt  strongly  inclined  to  become  an 
Episcopalian. 
On  Nov.  6,  1844,  he  was  ordained  and  installed  as  the 
first  pastor  of  the  then  recently  organized  church  in  Man- 
chester, New  Hampshire,  now  known  as  the  Franklin  Street 
Church.  To  this  he  gave  four  and  a  half  years  of  active  and 
most  successful  labor.  He  was  also  instrumental  in  accom- 
plishing valuable  improvements  of  the  public  school  system  of 
the  city,  as  well  as  certain  important  moral  and  political  re- 
forms.    Here,  too,  he  began  in  a  modest  way  the  career  of 
 - 126 - 
1891.]         MEMOIR   OF   REV.    HENRY   MARTYN   DEXTER.  93 
editorial  service  to  which  his  later  life  was  so  largely  devoted. 
On  November  19,  immediately  after  his  ordination,  he  was 
married  to  Emeline  Palmer,  daughter  of  Simeon  Palmer,  Esq., 
of  Boston. 
On  April  18,  1849,  he  became  pastor  of  the  Pine  Street 
Church  in  Boston,  succeeding  Dr.  Austin  Phelps,  who  had 
gone  to  Andover  Seminary  to  be  the  professor  of  homiletics. 
This  church,  although  through  no  fault  or  failure  of  his  pre- 
decessor, was  hampered  by  internal  dissensions,  an  unfavor- 
able situation,  and  a  heavy  debt.  He  remained  its  pastor  until 
1867,  more  than  eighteen  years,  during  which  time  its  dif- 
ferences were  harmonized  ;  a  new  meeting-house,  the  present 
Berkeley  Street  Church,  was  built  in  a  more  desirable  local- 
ity ; a  great  congregation  was  gathered,  as  well  as  a  Sunday- 
school  the  largest  in  New  England,  at  one  time  numbering 
more  than  fourteen  hundred  members  ;  and  notable  prosperity 
in  all  respects  was  enjoyed,  excepting  that  the  outbreak  of  the 
War  of  the  Rebellion  so  disturbed  the  financial  world  that  the 
full  payment  of  the  debt  had  to  be  long  deferred,  although 
every  dollar  necessary  to  pay  it,  as  well  as  to  build  the  pro- 
posed edifice,  had  been  pledged  before  the  new  house  was  be- 
gun, and  chiefly  through  Dr.  Dexter's  personal  exertions.  His 
pastorate  was  distinguished  by  his  energetic  leadership  in 
efforts,  then  as  uncommon  as  they  now  are  usual,  for  the 
amelioration  of  the  condition  of  the  poor  and  neglected. 
Busy  though  he  was  as  a  minister,  he  found  time  for  much 
other  usefulness.  When,  on  May  24,  1849,  the  "  Congrega- 
tionalist  "  first  appeared,  in  protest  against  the  extreme  old- 
school  theological  views  of  the  "  Boston  Recorder,"  he  at 
once  became  a  special  contributor.  At  this  time,  too,  for  some 
years,  he  was  the  Boston  correspondent  of  the  New  York  "  In- 
dependent." In  
October,  1851,  he  joined  the  editorial  staff 
of  the  "  Congregationalist  "   ;  and  this  connection  endured, 
with  a  single  interval  of  one  year,  until  his  decease.  In  1856 
the  death  of  one  of  the  proprietors  of  this  journal  caused  a 
reconstruction  of  its  official  force  ;  and  Dr.  Dexter  assumed  the 
duties  of  editor-in-chief,  although  still  carrying  on  vigorously 
the  varied  work  of  his  pastorate.  In  1865  his  neighbor  and 
intimate  friend,  Rev.  A.  L.  Stone,  D.D.,  of  the  Park  Street 
Church,  removed  to  San  Francisco  ;  and  an  urgent  invita- 
tion was  given  to  Dr.  Dexter  to  accompany  him  and  to  be- 
 - 127 - 
94  MASSACHUSETTS   HISTORICAL  SOCIETY.  [Nov. 
come  editor  of  the  "  Pacific,"  and  also  president  of  the  new 
theological  seminary  at  Oakland.  But  the  invitation  was 
declined.  His  church,  however,  had  become  so  large  as  to 
require  its  pastor's  whole  time  ;  and  Dr.  Dexter  therefore 
severed  his  connection  with  the  "  Congregationalist,"  and  for 
a  little  more  than  one  year  devoted  himself  unreservedly  to 
the  church. 
But  in  1867  the  California  invitation  was  renewed  in  several 
different  and  pressing  forms,  and  he  almost  decided  to  ac- 
cept. Just  then,  however,  the  "  Boston  Recorder,"  the  prin- 
cipal New  England  competitor  of  the  u  Congregationalist," 
came  into  the  market  ;  and  the  owners  of  the  latter  journal 
invited  Dr.  Dexter  to  resign  his  pastorate  and  devote  himself 
primarily  to  religious  journalism,  proposing  to  purchase  the 
"  Boston  Recorder,"  unite  it  with  the  "  Congregationalist," 
and  make  him  a  co-proprietor  and  the  editor-in-chief  of  the 
enlarged  journal.  This  invitation  he  accepted,  and  was  dis- 
missed from  his  pastorate  on  June  28.  During  the  remainder 
of  his  life,  which  lacked  only  seven  months  of  being  a  quarter 
of  a  century,  his  principal  work  was  that  of  an  editor.  He 
had  most  efficient  coadjutors,  yet  it  is  no  disparagement  of 
any  one  else  to  say  that  to  him  pre-eminently  has  been  due 
the  prominent  position  of  the  "  Congregationalist  "  among 
religious  journals  ever  since  he  took  charge  of  it. 
At  this  point  mention  should  be  made  of  the  clerical  pro- 
test against  the  famous  Nebraska  Bill,  which  he  organized 
and  carried  through.  When,  in  1854,  Senator  Douglas  intro- 
duced in  
Congress  this  bill,  the  object  of  which  was  to  repeal 
the  Missouri  Compromise,  by  which,  in  1820,  all  that  part 
of  the  United  States  north  of  latitude  36°  30'  had  been  set 
apart  forever  for  freedom  as  opposed  to  slavery,  the  gravest 
alarm  naturally  was  felt  by  all  who  were  hostile  to  the  slave 
system.  It  became  evident  that  at  any  day  this  bill  might  be 
passed.  It  was  proposed  at  once  —  Dr.  Dexter  could  not 
remember  afterward  whether  Mrs.  Harriet  Beecher  Stowe,  or 
he,  or  some  one  else  suggested  the  plan —  to  try  to  induce  all 
the  ministers  of  the  different  Christian  bodies  in  New  England 
to  unite  in  one  grand  protest  against  the  bill.  Mrs.  Stowe 
offered  to  pay  the  whole  cost  if  Dr.  Dexter  would  do  the  work, 
and  he  agreed.  He  drew  up  the  form  of  words  which,  after 
slight   modification  in  conference    with   other  ministers,  was 
 - 128 - 
1891.]         MEMOIR   OF   REV.   HENRY   MARTYN   DEXTER.  95 
adopted  ;  and  the  original  is  among  his  papers.  It  is  worth 
noting  here  that  this  first  draft  bears  these  words,  "  Hereby, 
in  the  name  of  Almighty  God,  do  protest,"  suggested  as  an 
amendment  or  addition,  in  the  handwriting  of  Rev.  Nehemiah 
Adams,  D.D.,  whose  volume,  "  The  South  Side  View,"  ren- 
dered him  so  unpopular  with  anti-slavery  people. 
A  copy  of  this  protest,  with  a  blank  for  signature,  was 
mailed  immediately  to  every  minister  in  New  England,  about 
four  thousand  in  all,  with  a  request  for  a  prompt  response.  A 
large  parchment  was  prepared  on  which  the  protest  was  en- 
grossed, and  
the  names  of  twenty-five  of  the  most  distinguished 
ministers  of  Boston  were  signed  to  it.  As  the  signatures  of 
others  came  in,  —  nearly  all  the  Protestant  ministers  respond- 
ing,—  they  were  appended,  duly  classified  by  States  and 
towns.  When  it  had  been  completed  it  bore  three  thousand 
and  fifty  names,  and  "  made  a  formidable  yet  presentable 
document,  about  two  hundred  feet  in  length,"  which,  when 
folded  upon  itself,  "  made  a  pile  three  feet  in  length  by  about 
the  same  in  height."  There  still  was  danger  lest  the  bill  be 
passed  in  Congress  before  the  protest  could  be  received.  Dr. 
Dexter  therefore  hastened  to  Washington  with  it ;  and  after 
consultation  with  Senator  Sumner  and  others,  Mr.  Appleton, 
of  Boston,  then  a  Representative,  was  asked  to  present  it  in 
the  House,  and  Mr.  Everett  in  the  Senate.  They  consented,  — 
Mr.  Appleton  heartily,  Mr.  Everett  with  some  reluctance,  — 
and  it  caused  an  excited  debate.  It  failed  of  its  immediate 
purpose,  and  the  bill  was  passed  ;  
but  the  protest  undoubtedly 
did  useful  service  in  preparing  the  public  mind,  especially  in 
New  England,  for  the  conflict  which  broke  out  in  1861. 
During  this  year  (1854)  Dr.  Dexter  removed  his  residence 
to  Roxbury,  building  for  himself  a  pleasant  home  upon  the 
northern  slope  of  Parker's  Hill,  overlooking  the  city.  Here 
he  lived  for  thirteen  years,  until,  in  1867,  soon  after  the  death 
of  two  daughters,  the  imperfect  health  of  his  wife  made  a 
change  of  abode  imperative.  For  the  next  six  years  the  fam- 
ily headquarters  were  determined  by  temporary  convenience  ; 
but  in  1873  they  were  established  at  New  Bedford,  where  he 
lived  thereafter,  visiting  Boston  two  or  three  times  a  week. 
In  1858  he  helped  to  found  the  "  Congregational  Quar- 
terly," the  suggestion  of  which  came  from  himself;  and  he 
often  contributed  to  its  columns.     He  was  also,  in  1858,  one 
 - 129 - 
96  MASSACHUSETTS   HISTORICAL   SOCIETY.  [Nov. 
of  the  originators  of  the  Winthrop  Club,  —  a  literary  and 
social  clerical  organization  which  is  still  prosperous. 
Early  in  his  ministry  he  began  to  make  special  study  of  the 
theory  and  practice  of  Congregationalism,  and  to  collect  and  di- 
gest results  of  Congregational  ecclesiastical  councils.  In  1857 
he  had  an  experience  which  contributed  largely  to  increase 
his  interest  in,  and  knowledge  of,  the  Congregational  polity. 
The  church  in  Manchester,  Massachusetts,  was  divided  by  an 
internal  quarrel,  the  question  at  issue  being  which  of  the  two 
parties  had  the  rights  and  powers  of  the  church.  Important 
property  interests  were  at  stake,  and  both  sides  bound  them- 
selves to  
abide  by  the  decision  of  an  ecclesiastical  council. 
Each  party  had  legal  counsel,  —  Hon.  Otis  P.  Lord  represent- 
ing the  pastor,  Rev.  Rufus  Taylor,  and  his  adherents  :  and 
Hon.  Richard  H.  Dana  their  opponents.  When  the  council 
had  assembled,  it  appeared  that  neither  Mr.  Lord  nor  Mr. 
Dana  could  be  present.  The  council  objected  to  going  home 
without  having  accomplished  anything  ;  and  Mr.  Ives,  of  Salem, 
was  secured  immediately  in  Mr.  Lord's  place,  but  no  substi- 
tute for  Mr.  Dana  could  be  found.  It  was  then  agreed  that 
those  whom  he  had  been  expected  to  serve  might  select  some 
member  of  the  council  to  present  their  side  of  the  case,  and 
Dr.  Dexter  was  chosen.  The  council  adjourned  until  morn- 
ing, and  he  spent  most  of  the  night  in  preparation.  When 
Mr.  Dana's  brief  reached  him,  about  midnight,  he  saw  at  once 
that  it  revealed  an  unfamiliarity  with  Congregational  princi- 
ples and  practices  which  rendered  an  adverse  decision  almost 
inevitable.  He  at  once  gave  the  committee  representing  the 
side  for  which  he  was  to  appear  its  choice  to  allow  him  either 
to  withdraw  or  to  do  the  work  in  his  own  way.  It  finally, 
although  reluctantly,  put  the  matter  absolutely  into  his  hands. 
He  never  had  examined  a  witness  before,  and  he  had  a  shrewd, 
experienced  lawyer  opposed  to  him.  But  after  another  session 
of  the  council,  which  continued  for  twenty-three  hours,  with 
only  brief  intervals  for  meals,  during  which  period  he  did  not 
leave  the  church  premises,  the  verdict  was  rendered  in  the 
precise  form  for  which  he  had  argued.  He  records  in  this  con- 
nection the  reception  soon  after  of  a  most  kindty  letter  on  the 
subject  from  Mr.  Dana. 
From  this  time  he  began  to  be  regarded  and  consulted  as 
an  expert  in  Congregationalism,  —  especially  after  his  work  on 
 - 130 - 
1891.]         MEMOIR   OF   REV.    HENRY   MARTYN   DEXTER.  07 
that  subject  was  published  in  1865,  —  and  during  the  remain- 
der of  
his  life  he  served  on  scores  of  ecclesiastical  councils  in 
different  parts  of  our  country,  and  he  received  and  answered 
on  the  average  more  than  one  letter  a  day  asking  advice  about 
matters  of  church  government  or  usage.  The  only  remunera- 
tion which  he  used  to  accept  was  the  occasional  payment  of 
his  travelling  expenses  when  a  journey  had  been  necessary. 
In  1880  he  prepared  a  "Handbook  of  Congregationalism," 
based  upon  his  volume  of  1865  ;  and  both  remain  in  demand  as 
conceded  standards.  He  was  a  prominent  member  of  the 
National  Council  of  Congregational  Churches  held  in  Boston 
in  1865,  and  was  its  chief  secretary. 
His  interest  in  historical  research  was  almost,  if  not  actually, 
as  keen  as  his  enthusiasm  for  Congregationalism,  and  he  was 
recognized  as  an  authority  upon  Pilgrim  and  early  colonial 
subjects.  From  his  youth  he  devoted  much  time  to  the  study 
of  the  movement  which  resulted  in  the  Plymouth  Colony  ; the 
personal  histories  and  characters  of  the  members  of  the  Pil- 
grim company  ; the  conditions  of  religious,  ecclesiastical,  and 
social  life  in  Great  Britain  and  Holland  which  shaped  their 
career  ;  and  all  other  themes  in  any  manner  connected  there- 
with. In repeated  personal  visits  to  England  and  Holland  — 
where  he  formed  many  warm  friendships,  especially  among 
historical  scholars  and  representatives  of  widely  differing 
branches  of  the  Christian  Church  —  he  made  the  most  search- 
ing investigations  of  localities,  records,  and  all  other  possible 
sources  of  information  ;  and,  as  the  result,  he  accumulated  a 
considerable  body  of  material  concerning  them,  and  was  en- 
abled to  correct  some  misapprehensions,  and  to  add  to  the 
trustworthy  knowledge  of  them  previously  possessed.  It  has 
been  said  of  him,  and  with  reason,  that  no  one  else  has  ever 
mastered  this  important  department  of  history  so  thoroughly 
as  he. 
In  1869  his  zeal  in  this  direction  took  practical  form  in  a 
proposition  for  the  observance  in  1870  by  the  Congregational 
churches  of  the  United  States  of  the  two  hundred  and  fiftieth 
anniversary  of  the  advent  of  the  Pilgrims  upon  these  Western 
shores.  At  his  suggestion  the  church  in  Plymouth  took  the 
initiative  in  formal  action  ;  and,  by  agreement  of  eminent 
Congregationalists  representing  different  portions  of  the  coun- 
try, it   
was  decided  to  hold  commemorative    celebrations  in 
13 
 - 131 - 
98  MASSACHUSETTS   HISTORICAL   SOCIETY.  [Nov. 
April  at  Chicago,  in  connection  with  the  Triennial  Convention 
of  the  Congregational  Churches  of  the  Northwest,  and  on  De- 
cember 21,  
the  anniversary  of  the  landing  at  Plymouth,  in 
Boston.  All  Congregational  ministers  were  urged  to  preach 
occasionally  during  the  year  on  the  principles  with  which  the 
Pilgrims  were  specially  identified  ;  and  an  effort  was  proposed, 
and  was  made  with  some  success,  to  raise  money  for  the  bet- 
ter endowment  of  Congregational  theological  seminaries  and 
kindred  objects.  Dr.  Dexter  was  among  the  most  active  in 
carrying  out  the  various  undertakings  of  the  year  ;  and  an 
important  result  was  a  more  intelligent  loyalty  on  the  part  of 
Congregationalists  throughout  the  country  to  the  Pilgrims 
and  their  principles. 
In  1877  he  delivered  the  Southworth  Lectures  at  the  An- 
dover  Theological  Seminary  on  "  The  Congregationalism  of 
the  Last  Three  Hundred  Years  as  Seen  in  its  Literature." 
These  lectures,  some  of  which  were  also  delivered  before  other 
institutions,  subsequently  were  published  —  including,  in  an 
appendix,  a  bibliography  containing  7,250  titles  —  in  a  vol- 
ume the  value  of  which  has  been  recognized  abroad  as  well  as 
here.  It  may  be  added  appropriately  that  he  left,  at  his  death, 
the  nearly  finished  first  manuscript  of  a  work  upon  which  he 
had  been  engaged  for  many  years,  to  be  entitled  "  A  Study  of 
the  English  and  Dutch  Life  of  the  Plymouth  Men."  This  is 
being  completed  and  edited  for  publication  by  his  friend  and 
relative,  Prof.  Franklin  B.  Dexter,  of  Yale  University,  and 
his  son,  Rev.  Morton  Dexter,  of  Boston. 
In  1880  Dr.  Dexter  was  moderator  of  the  Triennial  National 
Council  of  Congregational  Churches,  which  met  at  St.  Louis. 
In  1881  he  was  elected  a  corporate  member  of  the  American 
Board  of  Commissioners  for  Foreign  Missions,  and  also  one  of 
the  twenty-five  members  of  the  Commission  recommended  by 
the  National  Council  for  the  drawing  up  of  a  new  creed.  In 
1884  he  was  appointed  by  the  American  Home  Missionary 
Society  to  be  one  of  a  committee  of  four  to  visit  Norway  and 
Sweden  in  response  to  overtures  from  certain  eminent  Scan- 
dinavians who  had  organized  what  practically  are  Congrega- 
tional churches,  and  who  desired  information  about  American 
Congregationalists,  and  fellowship  with  them  ;  and  in  company 
with  his  friend  Prof.  George  E.  Day,  he  visited  those  countries 
in  the  course  of  the  following  summer. 
 - 132 - 
1891.]  MEMOIR   OF   REV.    HENRY   MARTYN   DEXTER.  99 
At  about  this  time  he  was  concerned  for  several  years  in 
what  is  known  as  the  u  Andover  Controversy."  Early  in  1882 
he  felt  obliged  to  object,  through  the  columns  of  his  journal,  to 
the  choice  which  had  been  made  for  the  then  vacant  chair  of 
theology  in  the  Andover  Seminary,  because  of  the  apparent 
inconsistency  of  certain  published  opinions  of  the  candidate 
with  the  creed  believed  to  have  been  made  absolute  by  the 
founders  ;  and  the  appointment  failed  to  be  confirmed  by  the 
Board  of  Visitors  of  the  Seminary.  At  about  the  end  of  1886 
the  same  theological  views  had  been  avowed  so  frankly  by 
some  of  the  professors  at  Andover  that  public  sentiment 
throughout  a  large  part  of  the  Congregational  denomination 
began  to  call  for  formal  action  against  these  gentlemen,  —  not 
as  denying  to  them  as  Christian  men  the  right  to  hold  and 
teach  these  special  opinions,  but  because  it  was  believed  that, 
in  view  of  peculiar  limitations  existing  at  Andover,  they  ought 
not  to  retain  their  chairs  in  that  institution  while  holding  and 
teaching  these  opinions.  One  of  the  Trustees  declared  his 
purpose  of  appealing  to  the  Board  of  Visitors  to  take  active 
cognizance  of  the  existing  state  of  things  ;  and,  as  the  result  of 
long  and  wide-reaching  conference  among  leading  Congrega- 
tionalists,  Dr.  Dexter  was  urged  to  unite  with  him  and  others 
in  making  this  appeal.  Dr.  Dexter  believed  that  the  Visitors 
ought  voluntarily  to  take  whatever  action,  if  any,  might  be 
necessary  ;  but  as  they  refused  to  act  unless  formally  called 
upon,  he  consented  to  unite  in  the  appeal.  Charges  were  for- 
mulated against  several  of  the  professors.  The  Visitors  held 
public  hearings  ;  their  finding  was  adverse  to  one  professor. 
The  matter,  somewhat  complicated  by  action  of  the  other 
Trustees,  was  brought  before  the  Supreme  Court  of  this  State  ; 
and  the  decision  recently  announced  —  perhaps  the  only  one 
likely  to  be  reached  —  has  left  the  real  issue  undetermined. 
Dr.  Dexter,  although  credited  by  some  who  did  not  know 
him  well  with  a  fondness  for  controversial  discussion  which 
was  wholly  foreign  to  his  nature,  —  an  error  due  probably  to 
the  evident  fact  that  when  clear  as  to  his  duty  he  was  de- 
cided in  
maintaining  any  cause  which  he  had  espoused,  — 
deeply  regretted  from  the  first  that  so  painful  a  course  seemed 
marked  out  for  him  in  this  matter.  He  was  absolutely  con- 
scientious in  
his  action,  and  he  so  conducted  himself  as  to 
retain  the  respect  and  regard  of  most  of  those  who  differed 
 - 133 - 
100  MASSACHUSETTS   HISTORICAL   SOCIETY.  [Nov. 
radically  from  his  positions.  Nothing  else  would  have  grati- 
fied and  touched  him  so  keenly  among  the  scores  of  tributes 
paid  to  him  after  his  death,  nothing  else  did  please  him  so 
much  during  the  progress  of  this  controversy  and  during  the 
more  tranquil  years  which  followed  it  before  he  died,  as  the 
many  expressions  of  esteem  and  affection  given  him  by  men 
who  had  disputed  his  positions  with  an  earnestness  equal  to 
his  own.  The  essential  fairness  of  his  nature  was  rendered 
conspicuous  by  his  largely  successful  endeavors  during  his  last 
years  to  prevent  injustice  to  some  who,  although  they  did  not 
hold  his  views  upon  the  same  or  other  theological  questions, 
stood  in  opinion  where  he  claimed  that  they  had  a  perfect 
right  to  stand. 
Dr.  Dexter  was  appointed  in  1890  one  of  the  delegates  to 
represent  the  National  Council  of  Congregational  Churches  of 
the  United  States  in  the  International  Congregational  Council 
which  met  in  London  in  July  of  the  present  year.  This,  the 
first  such  gathering  ever  held  by  Congregationalists,  had  its 
origin  in  a  conversation  between  Rev.  Dr.  Alexander  Hannay, 
of  London,  and  himself  in  1880  ;  and  when  his  intimate  friend, 
Rev.  Dr.  Richard  S.  Storrs,  proved  unable  to  accept  the  ap- 
pointment to  
preach  the  opening  sermon  at  this  Council,  —  an 
honor  which  was  to  be  assigned  to  some  American  delegate,  — 
Dr.  Dexter  was  chosen  unanimously,  with  the  single  exception 
of  his  own  vote,  on  Nov.  10,  1890,  to  perform  that  service. 
But  on  the  morning  of  November  13  he  was  found  dead  in 
his  bed,  having  passed  away  instantly  and  painlessly  in  his 
sleep.  He  was  aged  sixty-nine  years  and  three  months.  His 
funeral  service  was  held  on  November  15  in  his  former  church 
in  Boston,  now  called  the  Berkeley  Temple,  and  was  attended 
by  a  large  company,  including  many  eminent  scholars  and 
clergymen  of  all  denominations.  He  was  buried  in  the  Forest 
Hills  Cemetery,  where  his  wife  was  laid  beside  him  hardly 
more  than  three  months  later.  Their  three  daughters  died  in 
infancy  or  childhood  ;  they  left  one  son. 
Dr.  Dexter  was  chosen  a  Resident  Member  of  this  Society 
in  1869,  and  during  the  same  year  he  became  a  member  of  the 
American  Antiquarian  Society.  He  also  belonged  to  the  New 
England  Historic  Genealogical  Society,  to  the  Old  Colony 
Historical  Society,  and,  as  an  honorary  member,  to  the  Long 
Island  Historical  Society  ;  and  was  an  original  member  of  the 
 - 134 - 
1891.]  MEMOIR   OF  REV.   HENRY  MARTYN   DEXTER.  101 
American  Historical  Association,  and  of  the  American  Society 
of  Church  History.  For  many  years  he  was  also  a  member 
and  a  director  of  the  American  Congregational  Association, 
which  he  served  for  several  years  as  its  secretary.  He  was 
especially  active  in  securing  for  it  the  present  Congregational 
House  in  this  city,  and  in  the  movement  now  in  progress  to 
erect  for  it  a  new  and  more  modern  building.  He  also  did 
long  and  efficient  service  as  the  chairman  of  its  Library 
Committee. 
In  1865  he,  with  his  friend  Prof.  G.  E.  Day,  D.D.,  caused 
the  site  of  the  dwelling  of  John  Robinson,  the  Pilgrim  pastor, 
in  Leyden,  Holland,  to  be  indicated  by  a  stone  suitably  in- 
scribed. He also  was  a  member  and  until  his  death  the  chair- 
man of the  committee  appointed  in  1877  by  the  National 
Council  of  Congregational  Churches  of  the  United  States  to 
superintend  the  erection  in  Leyden  of  a  memorial  of  Robinson. 
This,  in  the  form  of  a  bronze  tablet  on  the  outside  of  St.  Peter's 
Church,  was  dedicated  on  July  24,  1891.  Its  inscription  was 
composed  by  Dr.  Dexter. 
He  received  the  degree  of  Doctor  of  Divinity  from  Iowa 
College  in  1865.  Yale  University  conferred  upon  him  the  de- 
gree of  
Doctor  of  Sacred  Theology  in  1880,  and  in  1890  that 
of  Doctor  of  Laws.  He  is  the  only  man  to  whom  Yale  has 
given  both  of  these  degrees.  Throughout  his  life  he  main- 
tained unusually  close  relations  with  both  his  Brown  and  his 
Yale  classmates.  He  rarely  failed  to  be  present  at  their 
reunions,  and  in  the  summer  of  1890  he  attended  the  semi- 
centennial gathering  of  each  class. 
Dr.  Dexter  was  six  feet  and  one  inch  in  height,  and  was  of 
large  build  and  commanding  presence.  He  always  was  in- 
terested in  
out-of-door  sports  and  exercises,  and  in  his  early 
manhood  was  somewhat  distinguished  as  an  athlete.  He  was 
remarkable  for  his  happy  disposition  and  his  keen  sense  of 
humor,  and  was  a  most  enjoyable  companion.  His  life  was 
symmetrical  and  fruitful  in  an  eminent  degree.  He  was  well 
read  in  English  literature.  He  never  paid  serious  attention  to 
poetical  composition,  yet  several  of  his  translations  and  origi- 
nal hymns  have  found  their  way  into  popular  collections.  He 
was  a  good  classical  scholar  ;  and  ordinarily  he  read  Latin, 
classic  Greek,  and  New  Testament  Greek  daily.  He  did  not 
converse  easily  in  other  modern  languages  than  his  own,  but 
 - 135 - 
102  MASSACHUSETTS   HISTORICAL   SOCIETY.  [Nov. 
he  read  several  with  some  facility.  He  was  an  indefatigable 
and  thorough  student  of  history,  his  work  being  conspicuous 
for  painstaking  accuracy.  He  possessed  a  graphic  literary 
style,  in  which  there  sometimes  appeared  a  certain  quaintness, 
—  probably  due  to  his  intimacy  with  ancient  authors,  —  but 
which  always  was  clear  and  vigorous,  and  sometimes  strikingly 
beautiful. 
As  a  preacher  and  public  speaker,  he  was  in  constant  de- 
mand, and  more  than  ever  in  his  last  years.  He  was  a  wise, 
sympathetic,  and  tenderly  beloved  pastor.  As  a  theologian,  he 
was  open  to  all  new  truth,  yet  disposed  to  require  ample  evi- 
dence that  it  was  actual  truth.  As  an  exponent  of  the  polity 
of  the  Congregational  body,  he  had  no  superior.  As  an  editor, 
he  was  versatile,  sagacious,  fearless,  in  close  touch  with  his 
times,  and  skilled  in  obtaining  from  others  the  best  work  of 
which  they  were  capable.  It  has  been  given  to  few  men  to 
labor  in  so  many  different  departments  of  service,  and  to  achieve 
in  each  so  large  a  measure  of  conceded  success.  His  life 
abounded  in  unostentatious  charities  and  acts  of  helpfulness, 
especially  to  young  men.  He  was  "  a  man  full  of  faith  and  of 
the  Holy  Ghost." 
He  accumulated  a  large,  well-selected  library,  including  a 
special  and  probably  unequalled  collection  of  publications 
and  manuscripts  relating  to  the  Pilgrims  and  the  early  history 
of  the  New  England  colonies.  This  particular  collection,  in 
which  are  many  rare  and  valuable  volumes,  he  bequeathed  to 
Yale  University. 
His  editorials,  magazine  articles,  and  other  minor  publica- 
tions would  fill  many  volumes.  The  following  list  includes 
his  most  important  works  :  — 
Street  Thoughts.     1859.     pp.  216. 
Twelve  Discourses.     1860.     pp.  219. 
The  Verdict  of  Reason.     1865.     pp.  157. 
Congregationalism  :  What  it  is,  Whence  it  is,  and  How  it  Works. 
1865.     pp.  306. 
A  Glance  at  the  Ecclesiastical  Councils  of  New  England.  1867. 
pp.  68. 
The  Church  Polity  of  the  Pilgrims  the  Polity  of  the  New  Testament. 
1870.     pp.  82. 
Pilgrim  Memoranda.     1870.     pp.  40. 
As  to  Roger  Williams.     1876.     pp.  141. 
 - 136 - 
1891.] 
The  Congregationalism  of  the  Last  Three  Hundred  Years  as  Seen 
in  its  Literature.     With  a  Bibliography.     1880.     pp.  716. 
The  True  Story  of  John  Smyth,  the  Se-Baptist.     1880.     pp.  86. 
A  Handbook  of  Congregationalism.     1880.     pp.  212. 
Common  Sense  as  to  Woman  Suffrage.     1885.     pp.  33. 
Early  English  Exiles  in  Amsterdam.     1890.     pp.  25. 
Elder  Brewster's  Library.     1890.     pp.  51. 
The  last  two  were  prepared  originally  for  this  Society,  and 
were  printed  in  its  Proceedings. 
Dr.  Dexter  also  edited  (1865-1867)  new  editions  of  "  Mourt's 
Relation,  or  Journal  of  the  Plantation  at  Plymouth,"  origi- 
nally prepared  for  publication  by  George  Morton  ;  "  The  His- 
tory of  
King  Philip's  War,"  by  Benjamin  Church  ;  and  "  The 
History  of  the  Eastern  Expeditions,"  by  the  same  author. 
 - 137 - 
104  MASSACHUSETTS  HISTORICAL  SOCIETY.  [Nov. 
MEMOIR 
CHARLES   DEVENS,  LL.D. 
BY  JOHN  C.  ROPES. 
To  no  man  of  this  generation  more  fully  than  to  Charles 
Devens  can  be  paid  the  honor  due  to  faithful  and  honorable 
public  service.  Devotion  to  the  State,  obedience  to  the  call  of 
his  country,  —  these  were  his  conspicuous  traits.  His  service 
was  ungrudging.  When  the  war  came,  he  freely  stepped 
forward.  He  was  at  the  front  in  some  of  the  bloodiest  and 
most  obstinate  of  the  Virginia  battles.  His  public  life  was 
long,  distinguished,  and  absolutely  unblemished.  No  cloud 
ever  rested  for  a  moment  upon  his  fair  fame.  His  honors  were 
won  by  no  devious  methods,  by  no  unworthy  concessions. 
His  ambition  was  lofty,  and  it  was  disinterested.  It  was, 
moreover,  successful.  The  confidence  of  the  public  rewarded 
his  unmistakable  devotion  to  the  public  good.  The  whole 
community  rejoiced  to  do  him  honor.  Many  men  in  our  day 
have  won  public  attention  and  sometimes  public  gratitude  by 
advocating  great  changes,  by  heading  great  reforms,  or  by 
being  inseparably  connected  with  the  controversies  of  the 
day,  moral,  political,  or  religious  ;  but  Charles  Devens  was 
not  one  of  these.  He  was  simply  a  good  citizen,  a  brave 
soldier,  an  upright  magistrate,  a  true  patriot. 
He  was  born  at  No.  30  Union  Street,  Charlestown,  now  a 
part  of  Boston,  on  April  4,  1820.  He  was  a  son  of  Charles 
and  Mary  (Lithgow)  Devens.  His  mother  was  the  daughter 
of  Col.  Arthur  Lithgow,  of  Augusta,  Maine.  His  great-grand- 
father, Richard  Devens,  was  a  member  of  the  Committee  of 
Safety  and  Commissary-General  of  Massachusetts  during  the 
Revolution. 
 - 138 - 
: 
I    ,.                  .  .
1 ". H  '"*>' 
fl      ■  
▼-■• 1  <■"'•' 
r  ^  -j^^^^B 
-  
■■  i         | 
• 
j^r 
m:^- 
HI  Ik 
 - 139 - 
 - 140 - 
1891.]  MEMOIR   OF   CHARLES   DEVENS.  105 
He  was  graduated  at  Harvard  College  in  1838  at  the  early 
age  of  eighteen,  James  Russell  Lowell  and  William  W.  Story 
being  among  his  classmates.  He  studied  law  at  the  Harvard 
Law  School,  and  received  the  degree  of  LL.B.  in  1840,  in  com- 
pany with  the  late  Chief  Justice  Morton.  He  pursued  his 
studies  in  the  office  of  William  J.  Hubbard  and  Francis  O. 
Watts  in  Boston,  and  in  1841  was  admitted  to  the  bar. 
For  some  years  he  practised  in  Franklin  County,  residing 
first  at  Northfield  and  afterwards  at  Greenfield.  In  the  years 
1848  and  1849  he  represented  his  district  in  the  State  Senate. 
When  the  Whigs  came  into  power  by  the  election  of  General 
Taylor,  Mr.  Devens  was  made  United  States  Marshal  for  the 
District  of  Massachusetts,  an  office  which  he  held  for  the  four 
years  between  1849  and  1853. 
It  was  during  this  time  that  the  Fugitive  Slave  Bill  was 
passed,  as  part  of  the  "  Compromise  Measures  of  1850  "  ;  and 
it  became  on  one  occasion  Mr.  Devens's  painful  duty  to  make 
the  necessary  arrangements  for  the  return  of  a  fugitive.  One 
Sims,  a  slave  belonging  in  Georgia,  escaped  to  Boston  in 
April,  1851.  The  United  States  Commissioner  under  the  re- 
cent Act  heard  the  case,  decided  it  in  favor  of  the  claim  of 
the  owner,  and  directed  the  United  States  Marshal  to  escort 
the  prisoner  to  the  vessel  on  which  he  was  to  be  transported 
back  to  Georgia.  The  legal  duty  thus  imposed  upon  the  Mar- 
shal was  without  exception  the  most  repulsive  which  could  by 
any  possibility  fall  to  his  lot.  A  poor  slave,  who  had  presum- 
ably made  his  escape  either  because  his  fate  was  exceptionally 
hard  or  because  his  love  of  liberty  was  exceptionally  strong, 
was  to  be  refused  an  asylum  in  the  Commonwealth  of  Massa- 
chusetts, and  sent  back  to  slavery.  It  was  against  all  the 
natural  sympathies  of  the  human  heart,  contrary  to  the  hu- 
mane and  tolerant  spirit  of  this  community,  opposed  indeed 
to  the  natural  sense  of  justice,  certainly  as  we  in  Massachu- 
setts had  for  nearly  a  century  recognized  it,  that  this  poor 
black  should  be  sent  back  to  his  former  helpless  and  hopeless 
condition  of  servitude.  No  one  could  wish  to  have  any  part  in 
such  an  action.  Its  morality  depended  on  the  relative  weight 
which  a  right-minded,  public-spirited,  and  humane  citizen 
would  assign  to  the  considerations  which  have  just  been  stated 
as  contrasted  with  the  obligations  resting  upon  all  good  citi- 
zens, and  especially  upon  those  who  have  assumed  the  duties 
14 
 - 141 - 
106  MASSACHUSETTS   HISTORICAL   SOCIETY.  [Nov. 
of  public  office,  to  execute  the  laws  of  the  land.  Fortunately 
for  this  community  and  for  the  cause  of  good  government, 
Marshal  Devens  decided  in  favor  of  the  paramount  and  supe- 
rior authority  of  the  obligations  which  rested  upon  him  as  an 
officer  of  the  law  ;  and  in  face  of  the  unpopularity  and  mis- 
construction of  
motives  and  personal  abuse  in  which  his  action 
was  sure  to  involve  him,  he  acted  with  vigor  and  decision. 
That  he  should  have  so  fully  and  satisfactorily  met  such  a  per- 
plexing and  trying  emergency  at  the  early  age  of  thirty-one, 
argued  well  for  his  future  as  a  public  servant. 
While,  however,  Mr.  Devens  was  determined  to  do  his  duty 
as  an  officer  of  the  law,  he  spared  no  pains  to  ransom  its  un- 
fortunate victim.  He  set  on  foot  negotiations  for  the  purchase 
of  Sims,  which,  though  not  successful,  failed  through  no  fault 
of  his.  No  one  could  feel  more  keenly  than  he  the  pain  of 
participating,  even  in  an  official  capacity,  in  the  wretched 
task  of  surrendering  a  fugitive  slave. 
When  the  Whig  administration  of  Mr.  Fillmore  was  suc- 
ceeded by  
the  Democratic  administration  of  Mr.  Buchanan, 
Mr.  Devens  returned  to  the  practice  of  the  law,  —  this  time  in 
Worcester,  and  in  partnership  with  Mr.  George  F.  Hoar,  now 
one  of  the  Senators  from  Massachusetts. 
In  April,  1861,  upon  the  first  call  of  President  Lincoln  for 
troops,  Mr.  Devens  accepted  the  command,  as  Major,  of  the 
Third  Battalion  of  Rifles  of  the  Massachusetts  militia.  While 
in  command  of  this  battalion  at  Fort  McHenry  near  Baltimore, 
he  was  offered  by  Governor  Andrew  and  accepted  the  commis- 
sion of  
Colonel  of  the  Fifteenth  Regiment  of  Massachusetts 
Volunteers,  —  a  Worcester  County  Regiment,  and  one  of  the 
best  sent  out  by  the  State.  It  was  immediately  incorporated 
into  the  Army  of  the  Potomac.  In  the  unfortunate  affair 
of  Ball's  Bluff,  on  Oct.  21,  1861,  this  regiment,  under  com- 
mand of  
Colonel  Devens,  crossed  the  river,  and  took  its  part 
with  a  portion  of  the  Twentieth  Massachusetts  and  other 
troops  in  one  of  the  most  obstinate  and  bloody  encounters  of 
the  war.  Here  Devens  distinguished  himself  for  gallantry  and 
coolness.  He  was  slightly  wounded,  and  finally  had  to  swim 
the  river  to  Harrison's  Island. 
He  was  soon  afterward  made  a  Brigadier-General  of  Volun- 
teers, and  assigned  to  the  command  of  an  excellent  brigade, 
consisting  of  the  Seventh  and  Tenth  Massachusetts,  the  Sec- 
 - 142 - 
1891.]  MEMOIR   OF   CHARLES   DEVENS.  107 
ond  Rhode  Island,  and  the  Thirty-Sixth  New  York,  to  which 
in  September,  1862,  the  Thirty-Seventh  Massachusetts  was 
added.  This  force  formed  a  part  of  Couch's  division  of  the 
Fourth  Corps,  which  was  then  under  the  command  of  General 
Keyes.  This  corps  and  the  Third,  under  General  Heintzelman, 
were  thrown  across  the  Chickahominy  in  the  latter  part  of 
May,  1862,  thus  constituting  the  advance  of  the  army.  On 
these  two  corps  the  Confederate  General  Joseph  E.  Johnston 
concentrated  his  forces,  hoping  to  overwhelm  them  before  the 
remainder  of  the  army  could  be  brought  over  the  treacherous 
bridges  of  the  Chickahominy  to  their  assistance.  On  the  31st 
of  May  the  blow  fell;  and  in  spite  of  an  obstinate  and  coura- 
geous defence,  our  troops  were  slowly  forced  back  until  the 
enemy's  strength  became  exhausted,  and  our  reinforcements 
under  the  gallant  Sumner  and  Sedgwick  appeared  on  the 
field.  In  this  severe  action  General  Devens  won  new  laurels. 
"  With  only  two  regiments,"  says  General  Couch  in  his  offi- 
cial report,  "he  held  his  own  firmly.  .  .  .  Severely  wounded, 
he  remained  bravely  on  the  field  until  the  last  shot  was  fired." 
General  Devens's  wound  prevented  his  taking  part  in  the 
Seven  Days'  Battles  near  Richmond,  at  the  close  of  which  our 
army  took  up  early  in  July  a  strong  position  at  Harrison's 
Landing  on  the  James.  In  September  the  army  was  removed 
to  the  neighborhood  of  Washington,  and  under  General  Mc- 
Clellan  fought  the  bloody  battle  of  Antietam,  which  brought 
Lee's  invasion  of  Maryland  to  a  sudden  and  unsuccessful  ter- 
mination. In  
these  operations  Couch's  division  was  not  ac- 
tively engaged  ;  
it  reached  the  field  of  Antietam  late  in  the 
forenoon  of  the  18th,  the  day  after  the  battle. 
In  the  autumn  of  1862  this  division,  now  no  longer  under 
Couch,  who  had  been  promoted  to  the  command  of  the  Second 
Corps,  was  transferred  to  the  Sixth  Corps,  then  under  Frank- 
lin ;  
and  when  that  officer  was  assigned  to  the  command  of 
the  Left  Grand  Division  of  the  Army  of  the  Potomac,  —  a 
change  made  by  Burnside,  who  in  November  replaced  McClel- 
lan  in  command  of  the  army,  —  the  Sixth  Corps  was  placed 
under  Gen.  William  F.  Smith,  and  the  division  was  assigned  to 
Gen.  John  Newton. 
In  the  movement  upon  Fredericksburg,  on  Dec.  11,  1862, 
the  Sixth  Corps  crossed  the  Rappahannock  below  the  town. 
Devens's  brigade  led  the  advance  ;  and  when,  owing  to  the 
 - 143 - 
108  MASSACHUSETTS   HISTORICAL   SOCIETY.  [Nov. 
lateness  of  the  hour,  it  was  thought  best  to  retire  all  the 
troops  but  one  brigade,  it  was  that  of  General  Devens  which 
General  Newton  selected  to  hold  the  bridges  on  the  enemy's 
side  of  the  river  duriug  the  night.  So  when  on  the  15th, 
after  the  loss  of  the  main  battle,  the  Sixth  Corps  was  with- 
drawn to  the  north  bank  of  the  river,  it  was  again  Devens 
who  requested  and  was  given  the  honor  of  covering  with  his 
brigade  the  recrossing  of  the  troops. 
In  these  operations  Devens  won  the  high  commendation  of 
his  superiors.  "  General  Devens  and  Colonel  Torbert,"  says 
General  Smith  in  his  report,  "  deserve  especial  mention  for 
the  promptitude  and  precision  with  which  they  formed  their 
lines  to  cover  the-  crossing."  u  My  obligations,"  says  General 
Newton,  "  are  due  .  .  .  especially  to  Brig.-Gen.  Charles  Devens, 
who  commanded  the  advance  and  rear  guard  in  the  crossing 
and  recrossing  of  the  river." 
But  war  has  its  cruel  surprises  for  the  bravest  and  steadi- 
est of  
soldiers.  Promoted  to  the  command  of  a  division  in 
the  Eleventh  Corps  under  General  Howard,  it  was  General 
Devens'slot  to  hold  the  extreme  right  of  our  line  at  Chancel- 
lorsville.  The  Army  of  the  Potomac,  under  General  Hooker, 
had  crossed  the  Rappahannock  above  Fredericksburg  in  the 
last  days  of  April,  1863,  had  advanced  some  miles  towards 
that  city  on  the  first  of  May,  had  then  unwisely  and  un- 
accountably been  ordered  to  fall  back  into  the  dense  woods 
from  which  it  had  just  emerged,  and  had  taken  up  a  position 
facing  east  and  south,  with  its  headquarters  at  the  Chancellor 
house.  This  position  was  at  once  intrenched  and  rendered 
formidable  on  its  southern  face. 
General  Lee,  whose  army  certainly  was  not  more  than  half 
as  strong  as  that  of  his  opponent,  could  hardly  venture  on  a 
direct  attack  ;  yet  he  felt  that  the  situation  was  one  of  ex- 
treme gravity.  There  was  no  telling  how  large  a  force  the 
Federals  could  concentrate,  nor  when  it  might  suit  them  to 
take  the  offensive  in  good  earnest.  It  was  of  extreme  impor- 
tance to  
drive  them  at  once  to  recross  the  river.  Hence  he 
listened  willingly  to  the  daring  and  brilliant  proposal  of  Stone- 
wall Jackson,  his  favorite  lieutenant,  that  he  should  march 
around  the  front  of  our  army  and  fall  upon  it  from  the  west- 
ward. They  had  correctly  surmised  that  no  attack  from  this 
quarter  would  be  expected  by  our  generals.     The  march  of 
 - 144 - 
1891.]  MEMOIR   OF   CHARLES   DEVENS.  109 
Jackson's  column  was  indeed  discovered  ;  
but  although  at  half- 
past  nine  in  the  morning  Hooker  ordered  Howard  to  strengthen 
his  right  flank,  so  as  to  be  prepared  to  resist  an  attack  from 
that  direction,  should  any  be  made,  there  can  be  no  doubt 
whatever  that  the  movement  was  thought  by  Hooker,  and  by 
Howard  also,  to  be  a  movement  in  retreat.  Troops  were  sent 
out  from  the  main  line  to  harass  and  annoy  the  flying  foe. 
One  brigade,  that  of  Barlow,  was  even  taken  by  Hooker  from 
another  division  of  Howard's  command  to  support  this  attack. 
But  Jackson  was  not  to  be  diverted  from  his  purpose.  In  the 
latter  part  of  the  afternoon  of  Saturday,  May  2,  he  attained  a 
position  west  of  the  Eleventh  Corps  line,  and,  facing  to  the  east, 
advanced  in  line  of  battle  on  its  exposed  flank.  Devens  had 
indeed  placed  a  couple  of  regiments  and  a  section  of  artillery  to 
repel  an  assault  from  this  quarter,  should  any  be  made.  Much 
more  than  this  he  no  doubt  would  have  done,  had  he  been  in 
command  of  the  corps.  It  seems  certain  * that  he  early  in  the 
day  suspected  the  real  character  of  the  enemy's  movement  ; but 
the  information  which  raised  these  suspicions  in  his  mind,  al- 
though transmitted  promptly  to  corps  headquarters,  failed  to 
elicit  any  order  for  him  to  change  his  dispositions.  Had  he  pos- 
sessed greater  military  sagacity  or  wider  military  experience, 
and  so  been  able  to  divine  the  object  of  the  enemy,  or  had  the 
information  which  he  received  made  a  greater  impression  on  his 
mind,  —  in  fine,  we  may  fairly  say,  had  he  dared  to  take  the  re- 
sponsibility of changing  the  dispositions  of  his  division,  —  he 
might  at  least  have  rendered  the  impending  disaster  less  over- 
whelming. But  General  Devens  was  not  a  military  man  by 
education,  nor  was  he  a  military  genius  ; he  had  had  very  lit- 
tle experience  in  the  field  ; he  was  commanding  a  division  for 
the  first  time  ; he  was  directly  under  the  eye  of  his  corps  com- 
mander, —  a  regular  officer,  to  whom  he  had  transmitted  all  the 
information  he  had  received,  and  on  whom  it  evidently  made 
no  impression  whatever.  Lastly,  the  withdrawal  of  Barlow's 
brigade  by  Hooker's  express  order  during  the  afternoon  must 
have  convinced  Devens  that  the  general  commanding  the 
army  looked  at  the  whole  matter  as  not  deserving  serious 
attention. 
The  greater  part  of  his  division  was  facing  south.     It  con- 
1  See  his  testimony  before  the  Committee  on  the  Conduct  of  the  War  (Re- 
port 1865,  vol.  i.  p.  179). 
 - 145 - 
110  MASSACHUSETTS   HISTORICAL  SOCIETY.  [Nov. 
stituted  the  prolongation  of  the  front  of  the  army  towards  the 
west.  Without  orders  Devens  did  not  feel  justified  in  stripping 
a  portion  of  what  was  considered  by  his  superiors  as  the  main 
line  of  battle.  He  did,  as  we  have  seen,  make  some  disposi- 
tions for  defending  his  right  flank  ;  but  all  the  dispositions 
that  he  could  have  made  on  his  own  responsibility  would 
have  been  wholly  inadequate  to  the  needs  of  the  occasion. 
At  six  o'clock  in  the  afternoon  the  storm  broke,  and  in  a 
few  minutes  comparatively  his  whole  division  was  routed. 
He  himself,  wounded  severely  in  the  foot,  unable  to  remount 
his  horse,  remained  with  his  unfortunate  command  to  the  last, 
gallantly  striving  to  rally  the  troops,  and  to  interpose  to  the 
victorious  advance  of  the  Confederates  an  obstinate  even  if 
an  ineffectual  resistance.  His  efforts,  as  might  have  been 
expected,  were  unavailing.  The  rout  of  the  Eleventh  Corps, 
badly  posted  and  outnumbered  as  it  was,  was  complete  ;  
but 
Devens  did  all  that  a  brave  man  and  a  gallant  officer  could 
do  to  retrieve  the  fortunes  of  the  fight. 
His  wound,  which  was  a  serious  one,  was  not  cured  when 
his  division  was  again  flanked  and  routed  in  the  bloody  battle 
of  Gettysburg.  In  fact,  he  never  rejoined  it  after  Chancellors- 
ville  ;  and  the  next  time  we  see  him  in  the  field  it  is  at  the 
head  of  the  Third  Division  of  the  Eighteenth  Corps,  then 
under  Devens's  former  commander,  Gen.  William  F.  Smith. 
That  officer,  who,  with  General  Gillmore,  had  been  serving 
under  General  Butler  on  the  James  River  in  the  latter's  ill- 
planned  and  unsuccessful  movements  directed  upon  Rich- 
mond from  Bermuda  Hundred,  was  in  the  latter  part  of  May, 
1864,  ordered  to  join  the  Army  of  the  Potomac  with  a  force  of 
about  sixteen  thousand  men.  The  Army  of  the  Potomac, 
after  a  series  of  bloody  and  indecisive  battles  at  the  Wilder- 
ness, Spottsylvania,  and  the  North  Anna,  was  then  about  to 
cross  the  Pamunkey.  Smith,  when  he  arrived,  was  ordered 
to  Cold  Harbor,  where  his  command  at  first  took  up  a  po- 
sition between  the  Fifth  and  Sixth  corps.  On  the  afternoon 
of  the  1st  of  June  an  assault  on  the  enemy's  lines  was  made. 
"  The  Third  Division,  under  the  command  of  Brig.-Gen. 
Charles  Devens,  consisting  of  the  brigades  of  Colonel  Drake 
and  Colonel  Barton,"  says  General  Smith,  in  his  despatch  of 
the  2d  of  June,  "  charged  across  an  open  field,  1,250  yards 
in  width,  swept  by  a  cross-fire  of  the  enemy's  artillery,  carried 
 - 146 - 
1891.]  MEMOIR   OF   CHARLES   DEVENS.  Ill 
the  edge  of  the  woods,  and  drove  the  enemy  from  their  in- 
trenchments,  which  were  protected  by  slashings  and  entangle- 
ments, taking  some  250  prisoners."  In  the  general  assault 
along  the  whole  line,  known  as  the  battle  of  Cold  Harbor, 
which  was  made  on  the  morning  of  the  3d  of  June,  "  General 
Devens's  command,"  says  General  Smith,  in  his  formal  report, 
"  held  my  right  flank,  and  had  been  so  much  cut  up  in  officers 
and  men  during  the  two  days  previous  that  I  did  not  deem  it 
in  condition  to  do  more  than  act  on  the  defensive."  In  his 
article  in  the  work  entitled  "Battles  and  Leaders  of  the 
Civil  War,"  published  by  the  Century  Company,  General 
Smith  explains  (p.  225)  that  "  a  gap  of  nearly  two  miles 
between  the  right  of  the  Eighteenth  Corps  and  the  left  of 
the  Fifth  Corps  under  Warren  made  it  necessary  to  throw 
back  the  right  flank  of  the  [Eighteenth]  Corps,  to  hold  the 
open  plain  and  roads,  and  to  prevent  that  flank  from  being 
turned.  This  necessarily  put  the  division  on  the  right  quite 
out  of  the  battle,  except  in  the  use  of  its  artillery  at  rather 
long  range.  .  .  .  The  plan  adopted  gave  to  Devens,  with  his 
division,  the  duty  of  keeping  the  right  flank  secure."  This 
task  General  Devens  faithfully  performed,  although  suffering 
so  severely  from  rheumatism  that  he  was  obliged  to  ask  for 
leave  of  absence.  On  June  4,  "  General  Devens,"  says  Smith, 
in  his  report,  "  who  had  done  duty  during  the  3d,  and  [had 
been]  carried  about  on  a  stretcher,  was  relieved,  on  account 
of  his  health,  by  General  Ames." 
On  recovering  from  this  illness,  General  Devens  returned 
with  alacrity  to  duty,  this  time  as  commanding  the  Third 
Division  of  the  Twenty-fourth  Corps,  under  General  Gibbon, 
which  constituted  a  part  of  the  Army  of  the  James,  under 
General  Ord.  On  the  27th  of  March,  1865,  the  final  cam- 
paign began.  The  greater  part  of  the  Twenty-fourth  Corps, 
together  with  other  troops  from  the  Army  of  the  James,  took 
the  field,  to  act  in  conjunction  with  the  Army  of  the  Poto- 
mac. Devens's  division  remained  in  the  works  ;  and  by  a 
great  piece  of  good  fortune  it  fell  to  him  to  lead  the  first 
Federal  troops  into  the  capital  of  the  Southern  Confederacy. 
Early  in  the  morning  of  the  3d  of  April  the  Federal  forces 
under  General  Weitzel,  the  commander  of  the  Twenty -fifth 
Corps,  entered  the  city ;  and  the  division  of  Devens  led  in  this 
triumphant  march. 
 - 147 - 
112  MASSACHUSETTS   HISTORICAL  SOCIETY.  [Nov. 
We  have  been  somewhat  particular  in  giving  the  details  of 
General  Devens's  military  services,  because  they  are  pre- 
sumably less  well  remembered  by  the  public  of  the  present 
day  than  his  long  and  honorable  career  on  the  bench.  But  it 
is  well  that  it  should  be  known  that  he  was  no  holiday  soldier. 
He  took  his  full  share  of  fatigue,  of  responsibility,  of  danger. 
His  merits  were,  as  we  have  seen,  recognized  by  all  his  supe- 
rior officers   ;  and  we  may  add  that  it  was  at  the  request  of 
General  Grant  that  he  received  his  brevet  of  Major-General 
of  Volunteers  for  gallant  and  meritorious  conduct. 
He  continued  in  the  service  for  about  a  year  after  the  ces- 
sation of  
hostilities,  being  for  the  greater  part  of  that  time 
in  command  of  the  Federal  troops  in  South  Carolina.  In 
1866  he  was  mustered  out  of  service. 
He  at  once  returned  to  Boston  to  resume  the  practice  of 
the  law  ;  but  in  1867  Governor  Bullock  appointed  him  to  the 
bench  of  the  Superior  Court.  Here  he  served  about  six 
years,  when  he  was  promoted  by  Governor  Washburn  to  a 
seat  upon  the  bench  of  the  Supreme  Judicial  Court.  For 
about  four  years  he  filled  this  position  to  the  great  satisfaction 
of  the  community. 
In  March,  1877,  President  Hayes  offered  him  a  place  in  his 
cabinet,  —  that  of  Attorney-General  of  the  United  States.  It 
is  an  open  secret  that  Judge  Devens  hesitated  seriously  before 
accepting  this  offer.  He  was  nearly  fifty-seven  years  of  age  ; 
he  occupied  a  seat  on  the  highest  judicial  bench  in  his  own 
State  ;  
he  would  have  no  right  to  claim  or  expect  a  restoration 
to  this  position  on  his  return  from  Washington,  and  he  would 
then  be  almost  too  old  to  resume  practice  at  the  bar.  Nor 
would  his  private  means,  without  a  professional  income,  fur- 
nish him  a  sufficient  support.  .  Moreover,  he  had  been  away 
from  home  for  five  years,  and  he  much  preferred  living  in 
Massachusetts  to  a  residence  far  away  from  his  friends  and  his 
own  people.  But  the  request  of  the  President  seemed  like  a 
call  of  duty,  and  he  went.  The  tasks  of  his  office,  though 
new  to  him,  were  of  course  in  the  general  line  of  his  pro- 
fessional experience,  and  he  discharged  them  to  the  evident 
satisfaction  of  the  government.  His  life  in  Washington  nat- 
urally brought  him  in  contact  with  many  of  the  distinguished 
men  of  the  country,  —  the  men  who  had  won  our  victories  in 
the  late  war,  and  who  had,  in  or  out  of  Mr.  Lincoln's  cabinet, 
 - 148 - 
1891.]  MEMOIR   OF   CHARLES  DEVENS.  11  \\ 
shown  statesmanship  and  ability.  For  society  of  this  kind, 
and  in  fact  for  general  society  of  every  kind,  General  Devens 
was  eminently  fitted  ;  and  doubtless  he  enjoyed  to  the  full 
all  the  opportunities  of  this  nature  which  Washington  official 
life  so  richly  offers. 
He  returned  to  Massachusetts  at  the  close  of  Mr.  Hayes's 
administration  ;  and  in  April,  1881,  he  was  reappointed  to  the 
Supreme  Judicial  Court  by  Governor  Long,  and  on  that  bench 
he  sat  until  removed  by  death. 
General  Devens's  health  had  always  been  of  the  best. 
Even  the  harsh  experience  of  the  war,  although  endured  long 
after  the  elasticity  of  yodth  had  passed  away,  —  for  he  was 
forty-one  years  old  when  the  war  broke  out,  —  failed  to  make 
any  impression  on  his  vigorous  constitution.  He  was  always 
able  to  get  through  his  official  work  as  a  judge  without  worry  ; 
and  his  evenness  of  temper  and  habitual  command  of  a  good 
working  philosophy  of  daily  life  seemed  to  preserve  him  from 
the  annoyances  and  trials  which  beset  most  men  who  do  their 
fair  share  of  work  in  this  world.  No  change  was  visible  in 
him  until  perhaps  a  year  before  his  death,  when  he  sometimes 
complained  of  not  feeling  as  strong  and  well  as  usual,  or,  to 
be  more  accurate,  quietly  mentioned  the  fact  to  his  more  inti- 
mate friends   ;  but  he  made  no  alteration  in  his  daily  life. 
He  went  as  constantly  to  his  accustomed  seat  on  the  bench, 
to  his  habitual  chair  at  his  club  ;  
he  was  to  be  seen  as  often 
at  the  houses  of  his  friends.  In  the  latter  part  of  December, 
1890,  however,  he  grew  suddenly  weaker  ;  it  was  feared  that 
there  was  something  wrong  about  the  action  of  the  heart; 
still  no  immediate  consequences  were  apprehended.  He  ap- 
parently did  not  suffer,  and  there  was  little  in  his  condition 
to  indicate  a  serious  illness  ;  
but  he  was  in  reality  rapidly  near- 
ing  the  end,  and  on  the  afternoon  of  Wednesday,  Jan.  7, 1891, 
he  died.  His  nephew,  Mr.  Arthur  Lithgow  Devens,  and  others 
of  his  relatives  were  present  at  the  last.  His  death  was  sudden 
and  without  pain,  just  as  he  would  have  wished  it  to  be. 
He  was  buried  from  Trinity  Church,  Boston,  on  Saturday, 
Jan.  10,  1891,  with  military  honors.  The  coffin  was  borne  by 
eight  non-commissioned  officers  of  the  Second  United  States 
Artillery.  The  military  escort  consisted  of  detachments  of 
the  First  Regiment  Massachusetts  Volunteer  Militia  and  of 
Batteries    B  and   D,   Second  United    States  Artillery.      The 
15 
 - 149 - 
114  MASSACHUSETTS   HISTORICAL    SOCIETY.  [Nov. 
Military  Order  of  the  Loyal  Legion,  of  which  General  Devens 
had  for  years  been  the  Commander,  attended  in  force.  The 
bench  and  the  bar  were  largely  represented,  Chief  Justice  Field 
being  one  of  the  pall-bearers.  The  church  was  crowded.  The 
burial-service  was  read  by  the  Rev.  Phillips  Brooks,  D.D. 
While  the  coffin  was  being  carried  from  the  church,  "  taps  " 
were  sounded  from  various  parts  of  the  building,  and  Sulli- 
van's "  
Lost  Chord  "  was  played  on  the  bugle.  The  remains 
were  interred  in  the  family  lot  in  Mount  Auburn  Cemetery. 
The  life  which  we  have  just  sketched  was  an  unusually  hon- 
orable, useful,  and  happy  life.  Few  men  have  ever  lived  who 
were  better  fitted  to  discharge  the  ordinary  tasks  which  be- 
longed to  
public  office  —  whether  civil  or  military  —  than  was 
Charles  Devens.  He  brought  to  their  accomplishment,  in  the 
first  place,  an  honest,  courageous,  and  unreserved  purpose  to 
do  his  duty,  and  in  the  second  place,  sound  judgment,  great 
tact,  and  good  administrative  ability.  His  duties,  it  is  true, 
did  not  lie  in  the  highest  regions  of  the  public  service.  He 
never  commanded  an  army,  or  even  an  army  corps.  He  was  an 
Associate  Justice  only  of  the  Supreme  Judicial  Court.  Nor  did 
he  ever  strongly  desire  the  greater  responsibilities  or  the  more 
conspicuous  opportunities  of  distinction  which  the  chief  con- 
trol alone  affords.  His  ambition,  though  a  strong  and  an  hon- 
orable ambition,  was  under  the  strict  rule  of  his  judgment. 
He  never  thought  of  himself  more  highly  than  he  ought  to 
have  thought.  He  correctly  estimated  his  own  powers  and  his 
own  attainments.  That  which  he  knew  himself  capable  of 
doing  he  was  honorably  anxious  to  do.  His  standard  was 
high.  His  work  was  done  thoroughly  and  effectively,  and 
with  a  masculine  strength  and  sobriety  that  won  general 
admiration. 
He  was,  on  the  whole,  satisfied  with  his  career.  It  afforded 
to  his  peculiar  powers  and  faculties  excellent  opportunities  for 
exercise,  growth,  and  successful  activity. 
As  an  officer  of  the  army,  he  rose  by  gradual  steps  and  by 
his  own  merits  as  high  as  most  of  those  who  had  had  no  pro- 
fessional training  in  the  art  of  war,  —  leaving  out  of  the  com- 
parison, of  
course,  the  two  major-generals  from  this  State 
whom  President  Lincoln  commissioned  almost  before  the  first 
shot  had  been  fired.  Dcvens's  promotions  in  the  army  were 
all  deserved.    His  services,  though  equalled  no  doubt  by  those 
 - 150 - 
1891.]  MEMOIR   OF   CHARLES   DEVENS.  115 
of  many  others,  and  not  especially  conspicuous,  were  the 
services  of  a  brave,  faithful,  and  competent  officer. 
To  his  duties  as  a  judge  he  brought  a  mind  characterized 
by  strong  common-sense  and  actuated  by  an  equally  strong 
love  of  justice.  He  moreover  carried  with  him  always  the 
recollection  that  a  judge  is,  first  of  all,  a  magistrate,  whose  of- 
fice it  
is  to  decide  controversies  and  disputes  according  to  the 
well-established  principles  of  the  law  of  the  land  ;  
and  he  never 
lost  sight  of  this  fundamental  conception  of  duty.  He  never 
used  the  opportunities  which  a  case  presented  for  the  purpose 
of  displaying  his  own  acumen  or  learning.  He  kept  the  main 
end  of  the  law  always  plainly  before  his  eyes.  He  was  always 
serious,  candid,  willing  to  hear,  able  to  defer  making  up  his 
mind  until  the  case  had  been  fully  presented.  He  never 
aimed  at  showing  himself  able  to  comprehend  a  tangled  ques- 
tion merety  by  glancing  at  the  pleadings.  Though  always 
preserving  fully  the  dignity  of  his  station,  he  was  invariably 
courteous.  It  was  a  pleasure  to  go  before  him.  He  did  not 
possess  or  pretend  to  possess  deep  or  varied  learning,  but  he 
made  up  for  this  lack  in  great  part  by  his  long  experience  and 
his  remarkable  ability  to  understand  human  nature.  His 
mind  was  not  specially  acute  or  deep  ; but  his  rare  common- 
sense,  his  unfailing  patience,  and  his  strong  desire  to  possess 
himself  of  the  facts  and  law  of  every  cause  that  he  was  called 
upon  to  hear  rendered  him  one  of  the  most  useful  judges  that 
have  sat  on  the  Supreme  Bench  in  our  time. 
It  was,  however,  as  an  orator  that  General  Devens  gained 
his  greatest  distinction.  Of  commanding  presence  and  fine 
figure,  a  notably  handsome  man  at  all  periods  of  his'  life,  pos- 
sessed of a  strong  and  flexible  voice,  he  had  all  the  external 
graces  and  gifts  of  a  public  speaker  ;  
but  these  were  the  least  of 
his  qualifications.  He  was  a  master  in  the  art  of  weaving  an 
oration  out  of  the  facts  and  associations  of  a  famous  historical 
event,  out  of  the  strong  and  heroic  qualities  of  a  great  man. 
He  invariably  rose  to  the  full  height  of  his  subject,  whatever 
it  was  ;  and  he  always  carried  his  audience  with  him.  He 
knew  instinctively  how  to  reach  their  hearts.  His  very  pres- 
ence attracted  them.  His  language,  strong  though  restrained  ; 
his  evident  deep  feeling,  kept  always  sufficiently  in  check,  but 
yet  by  degrees  infusing  itself  into  the  minds  of  his  hearers; 
his  ability  to  seize  on  the  telling  points  of  the  topic  to  which 
 - 151 - 
116  MASSACHUSETTS   HISTORICAL   SOCIETY.  [Nov. 
he  was  addressing  himself,  and  his  evident  sincerity  and  patri- 
otic fervor,  —  constituted  him  one  of  the  most  brilliant  and 
effective  of  our  public  orators.  The  events  and  men  of  the 
Revolution  and  of  the  Civil  War  were  his  principal  themes  ; 
but  his  reverence  and  affection  for  his  Alma  Mater  made  him  on 
many  occasions,  and  notably  on  that  of  the  celebration  of  the 
two  hundred  and  fiftieth  anniversary  of  the  founding  of  Har- 
vard College,  not,  to  be  sure,  the  chosen  representative  of 
her  literary  eminence,  but  the  one  to  preside  over  her  alumni 
and  to  be  her  spokesman  to  the  outer  world.  On  these  occa- 
sions he  
was  always  felicitous,  always  in  touch  with  both  the 
College  and  the  public,  always  and  unmistakably  successful. 
Judge  Devens  was  never  married  ;  
but  "he  lavished  on  his 
relatives,"  as  a  lifelong  friend  of  his  has  said,  "  the  love  he 
would  have  given  to  wife  and  children."  He  was  a  devoted 
son  and  brother.  His  younger  relatives  were  very  near  and 
dear  to  him  ;  yet  he  was  eminently  a  man  among  men.  His 
acquaintance  was  very  large.  He  was  a  man  of  many  friends  ; 
he  was  always  urbane,  kindly,  tolerant,  attractive.  His  at- 
tachments to  
those  whom  he  honored  with  his  friendship  were 
strong  and  unchanging.  He  was  a  good  talker,  and  pos- 
sessed a  
delightful  sense  of  humor,  which  enabled  him  to 
gather  from  his  varied  experiences  many  most  amusing  stories  ; 
for  though  he  was  a  man  who  took  life  seriously,  there  was 
always  a  wholesome  and  cheerful  tone  about  his  ways  and 
his  conversation. 
His  orations  and  addresses  deserve,  it  is  believed,  a  perma- 
nent place  in  the  historical  literature  of  Massachusetts.  The 
Centennial  Address  on  the  Battle  of  Bunker  Hill,  the  Oration 
before  the  Army  of  the  Potomac  on  General  Meade,  and  the 
Worcester  Oration  on  General  Grant  are  certainly  in  this 
category.  But  perhaps  nothing  that  he  ever  said  was  finer 
than  the  brief  address  to  his  men  after  their  first  battle.  We 
take  the  following  account  from  the  New  York  "  Herald  "  of 
Oct.  30,  1861  ;  and  with  this  most  fit  and  eloquent  appeal  we 
bring  this  memoir  to  a  close  :  — 
"  After  parade  the  regiment  was  formed  in  square,  and  their  noble 
and  gallant  Colonel  Devens  made  them  an  address,  to  which  even  a 
faithful  verbal  report  would  do  injustice  ;  for  no  description  could  repro- 
duce the  tender,  subdued  fervor  with  which  the  Colonel  first  spoke,  the 
 - 152 - 
1891.]  MEMOIR   OF   CHARLES  DEVENS.  117 
electric  sympathy  by  which  his  men  were  affected,  or  the  earnest  deter- 
mination with  which  the  question  was  asked  and  answered. 
"  '  
Soldiers  of  Massachusetts,  men  of  Worcester  County,  with  these 
fearful  gaps  in  your  lines,  with  the  recollection  of  the  terrible  struggle 
of  Monday  fresh  upon  your  thoughts,  with  the  knowledge  of  the  be- 
reaved and  soul-stricken  ones  at  home,  weeping  for  those  whom  they 
will  see  no  more  on  earth,  with  that  hospital  before  your  eyes  filled 
with  wounded  and  maimed  comrades,  I  ask  you  now  whether  you  are 
ready  again  to  meet  the  traitorous  foe  who  are  endeavoring  to  subvert 
our  government,  and  who  are  crushing  under  the  iron  heel  of  despotism 
the  liberties  of  a  part  of  our  country.  Would  you  go  next  week  ? 
Would  you  go  to-morrow  ?  Would  you  go  this  moment  ? '  And  one 
hearty  '  
Yes '  
burst  from  every  lip." 
 - 153 - 
118  MASSACHUSETTS   HISTORICAL   SOCIETY.  [I>EC 
DECEMBER   MEETING,    1891. 
A  stated  meeting  was  held  on  Thursday,  the  10th  instant, 
at  three  o'clock,  p.  m.  ;  the  President,  Dr.  George  E.  Ellis, 
in  the  chair. 
After  the  reading  of  the  record  of  the  last  meeting  and  of 
the  list  of  donors  to  the  Library  since  the  November  meeting, 
the  President  said  : — 
I  have  had  committed  to  me  by  the  author,  Mr.  Elbridge 
Henry  Goss,  for  presentation  to  this  Society,  the  first  pub- 
lished volume  —  intended  to  be  followed  by  a  second  —  of  his 
"  Life  of  Colonel  Paul  Revere."  The  sumptuous  appearance 
of  the  volume,  in  paper,  type,  and  adornment,  well  befits  the 
value  of  its  contents,  and  the  devotion,  ability,  skill,  and  re- 
search which  the  author  has  given  to  the  faithful  and  thorough 
treatment  of  his  subject.  Very  few  of  the  patriotic  men  of 
our  Revolutionary  era  have  left  to  reward  the  search  for  them 
so  many  personal  memorials  of  himself  as  has  Paul  Revere  ; 
but  these  needed  reviving  and  restoring  appreciation  and 
zeal  like  those  of  his  present  biographer  to  bring  them  to  the 
grateful  recognition  of  the  present  generation.  Mr.  Goss  di- 
vides his  pages  about  equally  to  his  two  purposes  of  present- 
ing the  patriot  artisan,  in  his  life  of  industry  and  skill  in  his 
private  employment,  and  his  ardent  public  political  service. 
He  was  an  artificer  —  for  the  most  part  self-taught  —  in  many 
trades.  He  cast  bells  still  hanging  in  church  steeples,  and 
cannon  now  widely  scattered,  as  spoils  of  war.  In  many  of 
our  older  local  families  are  treasured  the  graceful  products  of 
his  skill  as  a  silversmith  and  graver.  He  produced  a  large 
number  and  variety  of  engravings  and  caricatures  exhibiting 
his  own  ingenuity  in  conception  and  device,  sometimes  rude, 
but  often  of  adequate  artistic  device  to  serve  the  ends,  com- 
memorative and  patriotic,  which  he  had  in  view.  We  value 
highly  such  of  these  as  remain  to  us  for  their  unique  charac- 
teristics. Mr.  
Goss  by  his  unwearied  research  has  recovered 
many  of  them,  as  well  as  many  documents  and  memorials  of  a 
 - 154 - 
1891.]  THE  MISSOURI   COMPROMISE.  119 
private  and  public  interest.  Yet  varied  and  busy  and  service- 
able as  was  the  career  of  this  really  remarkable  man,  he  was 
known  mainly  to  readers  of  this  generation  for  the  single  inci- 
dent commemorated  by  Longfellow  in  the  famous  ride  of  Paul 
Revere  to  give  the  alarm  for  the  attack  on  Lexington  and 
Concord.  That  indeed  was  but  one  in  a  series  of  momentous 
incidents,  in  which  as  messenger  and  express  to  Portsmouth, 
New  York,  and  Philadelphia,  he  carried  intelligence  on  emer- 
gent occasions.  He  performed  many  other  political  services, 
and  discharged  high  military  functions,  which  have  now,  by 
his  only  real  biographer,  found  for  the  first  time  a  somewhat 
full  and  adequate  memorial.  Readers  of  this  volume  while 
recognizing  the  claims  which  Revere,  both  in  his  private  and 
his  public  life,  has  upon  our  grateful  appreciation  and  regard, 
will  also  render  to  his  biographer  a  well-deserved  tribute  of 
appreciation  of  his  own  well-spent  labor  of  love. 
The  President  added  that  a  fine  portrait  of  Revere  by 
Copley  was  in  the  possession  of  a  branch  of  the  Revere 
family. 
Mr.  George  B.  Chase  then  described  the  portrait.  Revere 
is  represented  as  a  man  still  young,  eyes  and  hair  dark,  the 
face  strong  and  expressive.  He  sits  behind  a  bench,  his  coat 
off,  waistcoat  unbuttoned,  shirt  loose  at  neck  and  wrists. 
He  holds  in  his  left  hand  a  teapot  which  rests  on  a  pad ; 
engraver's  tools  lie  on  the  bench  before  him. 
Rev.  Dr.  Edward  E.  Hale  said  that  he  was  about  to  print 
in  a  pamphlet  the  address  to  the  people  of  Massachusetts  pre- 
pared by  
Daniel  Webster  and  James  T.  Austin,  at  the  direc- 
tion of a  town-meeting  held  in  Boston  in  1819,  on  the  Missouri 
Compromise,  and  inquired  whether  any  member  could  refer  to 
contemporary  notices  of  that  meeting.1 
1  The  meeting  here  referred  to  was  "a  large  and  highly  respectable  meeting  of 
citizens  "  of  Boston  "  and  numerous  other  towns  in  the  State,"  and  was  held  in  the 
State  House,  Dec.  3,  1819.  At  this  meeting  the  Hon.  William  Eustis  presented  a 
report  and  two  resolutions  affirming  the  constitutional  power  of  Congress  to  pro- 
hibit the  extension  of  slavery  into  new  States  created  beyond  the  limits  of  the  ori- 
ginal territory  of  the  United  States,  and  the  justice  and  expediency  of  exercising 
that  power.  The  report  was  unanimously  adopted  ;  and  a  committee  was  then  ap- 
pointed "  
to  transmit  the  Resolutions  adopted  to  the  Senators  and  Representatives 
of  this  State  in  Congress,  and  to  draft  a  Memorial  to  that  Honorable  Body  for 
the  signatures  of  the  citizens."     The  members  of  the  committee  were  Daniel 
 - 155 - 
120  MASSACHUSETTS   HISTORICAL   SOCIETY.  [Dec. 
Rev.  Dr.  Lucius  R.  Paige  presented,  on  behalf  of  the 
author,  "  Biographical  Notes  of  Dr.  Matthew  Sutcliffe,  Dean 
of  Exeter,  1588-1629,  by  Frances  B.  Troup." 
He  also  expressed  a  desire  to  affix  exact  dates  to  events 
briefly  mentioned  by  him  at  the  November  meeting.  During 
the  Shays  Rebellion,  so  called,  John  Wheeler,  of  Hardwick, 
was  an  aide-de-camp  to  Shays  himself,  and  was  actively  en- 
gaged in  
the  military  operations  until  early  in  February,  1787, 
when  he  was  taken  prisoner.  At  the  term  of  the  Supreme 
Judicial  Court  holden  on  the  ninth  day  of  April,  1787,  by  ad- 
journment from  the  first  Tuesday  of  the  same  month,  he  was 
convicted  of  treason,  and  sentenced  to  be  hanged.  But  three 
weeks  later,  April  30,  1787,  "  a  full,  free,  and  ample  pardon  " 
was  granted  to  him  by  Governor  Bowdoin.  Connected  with 
this  transaction  was  a  fact  which  somewhat  surprised  me  when 
it  came  to  my  knowledge.  This  John  Wheeler  was  commis- 
sioned First  Lieutenant  of  a  military  company  in  Hardwick, 
Jan.  17,  1784,  two  years  before  the  outbreak  of  hostilities.  I 
have  found  no  evidence  that  he  ever  resigned  or  was  degraded 
from  that  office  ;  but  there  is  abundant  evidence  that,  appar- 
ently in  
due  course  of  promotion,  he  was  commissioned  as  Cap- 
tain of  
the  same  company  by  Governor  Hancock,  Sept.  1, 1789, 
a  few  months  more  than  two  years  after  he  was  "  convicted 
of  treason,"  and  "  adjudged  to  suffer  the  pains  of  death." 
Webster,  George  Blake,  Josiah  Quincy,  James  T.  Austin,  and  John  Gallison.  Sub- 
sequently, March  13,  1820,  a  meeting  was  held  in  Concert  Hall,  at  which  a  com- 
mittee of  
eight  gentlemen,  headed  by  James  Savage,  William  Minot,and  William 
Tudor,  was  appointed  to  make  arrangements  "for  a  general  meeting  of  all  the 
citizens  of  this  town  without  distinction  of  parties  ...  for  the  purpose  of  taking 
into  consideration  the  late  decision  of  the  Congress  of  the  United  Slates  on  the 
Missouri  Question,  and  the  propriety  of  expressing  the  sentiments  and  feelings  of 
the  citizens  on  the  further  extension  of  slavery."  This  committee  soon  afterward 
issued  a  public  notice  to  the  effect  that,  after  consultation  with  many  of  the  per- 
sons who  were  present  at  the  Concert  Hall  meeting,  they  had  concluded  it  was 
expedient  to  postpone  the  proposed  meeting  indefinitely  ;  and  they  added  :  "  The 
public  sentiment  was  expressed  in  a  dignified  and  able  memorial  to  Congress,  by 
the  direction  of  a  most  respectable  meeting  early  in  the  winter,  on  the  Missouri 
Question."  See  "  Columbian  Centinel"  Dec.  4, 1819,  March  15, 1820,  and  March 
25,  1820.  The  memorial  was  printed  in  pamphlet  form  ;  and  a  copy,  now  in  the 
Library  of  the  Historical  Society,  which  formerly  belonged  to  George  Ticknor, 
has  a  note  in  the  handwriting  of  Mr.  Ticknor,  stating  that  it  was  prepared  by 
John  Gallison.  Mr.  Gallison  died  Dec.  24,  1820,  at  the  early  age  of  thirty-two. 
Fie,  as  well  as  Mr.  Ticknor,  was  a  member  of  the  religious  society  of  which  Wil- 
liam Ellery  Channing  was  minister;  and  a  memoir  of  him  by  Mr.  Channing  was 
printed  in  the  "  Christian  Disciple,"  vol.  iii.  pp.  15-26. 
 - 156 - 
1891.]  LIST   OF   MEMOIRS   IN   THE   COLLECTIONS.  121 
The  Hon.  John  D.  Washburn,  having  been  called  on  by  the 
President,  gave  an  interesting  account  of  the  extradition  by 
Switzerland,  in  accordance  with  a  peculiar  clause  in  the  treaty 
with  the  United  States,  of  a  native  Swiss  who  had  been  guilty 
of  embezzlement  in  the  United  States.  This  provision  of  the 
treaty  is  contrary  to  the  established  policy  of  the  Federal  Gov- 
ernment of  
Switzerland,  and  conflicted  with  the  Constitution 
of  Geneva;  but  after  full  argument  before  the  highest  Swiss 
tribunals  the  paramount  authority  of  the  treaty  stipulation 
was  admitted. 
Dr.  Samuel  A.  Green  made  the  following  remarks  : — 
In  the  earlier  days  of  the  Society,  before  the  publication  of 
the  Proceedings,  it  was  the  custom  to  print  the  memoirs  of 
deceased  members  in  the  Collections,  of  which  there  is  no 
complete  and  consolidated  Index.  For  this  reason  they  are 
not  as  easily  or  readily  accessible  as  those  now  printed  in  the 
Proceedings,  with  its  full  Index  to  the  first  twenty  volumes. 
At  the  request  of  a  member  of  the  Society  I  have  prepared  a 
list  of  such  memoirs,  and  as  a  result  of  the  work  the  following 
titles  are  herewith  submitted.  Out  of  forty-eight  memoirs 
here  named,  eighteen  are  printed  separately,  and  appear  in  the 
Centennial  Bibliography  (Proc.  2d  series,  VI.  203-249)  of 
the  Society  ;  and  the  fact  of  such  appearance  is  noted  after 
the  title.  In  some  instances  the  writer's  name  does  not  appear 
at  the  head  of  the  memoir  ; but  in  all  such  cases,  whenever 
known,  I  have  given  it.  At  the  end  of  the  tenth  volume,  in 
each  of  the  first  three  series,  appears  an  index  to  the  authors, 
so  far  as  they  were  known  to  the  Publishing  Committee.  In 
connection  with  this  list,  the  note  on  pages  509  and  510  of 
Volume  II.  of  the  Proceedings  is  of  interest;  and  the  very 
brief  sketches  in  the  same  volume  (page  607,  note)  should 
also  be  mentioned. 
Allyn,  John.  Memoir  of  Rev.  John  Allyn,  D.D.  By  Convers  Francis. 
[3d  series,  V.  (1836),  245-252.]     See  Proc.  2d  series,  VI.  231. 
Belknap,  Jeremy.  Sketch  of  the  Life  and  Character  of  the  late  Rev- 
erend Doctor  Belknap.  By  John  Eliot.  [1st  series,  VI.  (1800), 
x-xviii.] 
This  sketch  was  first  published  in  the  "  
Columbian  Centinel," 
July  4,  1798,  in  nearly  the  same  form. 
16 
 - 157 - 
122  MASSACHUSETTS   HISTORICAL   SOCIETY.  [Dec. 
Bowdoin,  James.     Memoir  of  James  Bowdoin.     By  James  C.  Mer- 
rill.    [3d  
series,  IX.  (1846),  224,  225.] 
Bradford,  Gamaliel  (b.  1763,  d.  1824).    Memoir  of  Gamaliel  Brad- 
ford, Esq.     By  Alden  Bradford.     [3d  series,  I.  (1825),  202-209.] 
Bradford,  Gamaliel  (b.  1795,  d.  1839).     Memoir  of  Gamaliel  Brad- 
ford, M.D.     By  Convers  Francis.     [3d  series,  IX.  (1846),  75-81.] 
See  Proc.  2d  series,  VI.  231. 
Brattle,  Thomas.     Sketch  of  the  Life  and  Character  of  Thomas  Brat- 
tle, Esquire,  Member  of  the  Historical  Society.     By  John  Mellen,  Jr. 
[1st  series,  VIII.  (1802),  82-85.] 
This  sketch  is  known  to  have  been  written  by  John  Mel- 
len, Jr.,  
but  in  the  Collections  it  is  signed  "  g.  m." 
Buckminster,  Joseph  Stevens.  Memoir  of  the  late  Rev.  J.  S.  Buck- 
minster.     By  James  Savage.     [2d  series,  II.  (1814),  271-274.] 
This  memoir  is  signed  u  £." 
Clarke,  John.  Sketch  of  the  Life  and  Character  of  the  late  Rev. 
Dr.  Clarke.     By  Jeremy  Belknap?     [1st  series,  VI.  (1800),  iii-ix.] 
This  sketch  was  first  printed,  in  part,  in  the  "  Columbian 
Centinel,"  April  7, 1798,  and  is  supposed  to  have  been  written 
by  Dr.  Belknap. 
Davis,  John.     Memoir  of   Hon.  John   Davis,   LL.D.      By   Convers 
Francis.     [3d  series,  X.  (1849),  186-203.]     See  Proc.  2d  series,  VI. 
231. 
Davis,  Nathaniel  Morton.     A  Memoir  of  Nathaniel  Morton  Davis. 
By  Nahum  Mitchell.     [4th  series,  IV.  (1858),  492-494.] 
Davis,  Samuel.    Memoir  of  Samuel  Davis,  Esq.    3d  series,  V.  (1836), 
253-255. 
This  was  written  probably  by  Nahum  Mitchell.  See  Pro- 
ceedings, I.,  
pages  423,  426. 
Eliot,  Andrew.  Memoir  of  Rev.  Andrew  Eliot,  a  Corresponding 
Member  of  the  Historical  Society.  By  John  Eliot.  [1st  series,  X. 
(1809),  188-189.] 
This  memoir  is  signed  "  e." 
Eliot,  John.     Memoir  towards  a  Character  of  Reverend  John  Eliot, 
S.  T.  D.     By  Joseph  McKean.     [2d  series,  I.  (1814),  211-248.] 
See  Proc.  2d  series,  VI.  237. 
Emerson,  William.     Memoir  of  the  Life  and  Character  of  the  late 
Rev.  William   Emerson.     By  Samuel   C.  Thacher.     [2d  series,   I. 
(1814),  254-258.] 
 - 158 - 
1891.]  LIST   OF   MEMOIRS   IN   THE  COLLECTIONS.  123 
Fiske,  William.  Biographical  Memoir  of  William  Fisk,  Esq.  Fel- 
low of  
the  Historical  Society.  By  James  Winthrop.  [1st  series, 
IX.  (1804),  206,  207.] 
This  memoir  is  known  to  have  been  written  by  James  Win- 
throp, but  is  signed  "mn"  the  third  letter  in  each  of  his 
names. 
Freeman,  James.  Memoir  of  the  Rev.  James  Freeman,  D.D.  By 
F.  W.  P.  Greenwood.     [3d  series,  V.  (1836),  255-271.] 
Gannett,  Caleb.  Sketch  of  the  Life  and  Character  of  Caleb  Gan- 
nett, Esq.  By  Abiel  Holmes.  [2d  series,  VIII.  (1819),  277-285.] 
See  Proc.  2d  series,  VI.  236. 
Goodwin,  Ezra  Shaw.  Memoir  of  Rev.  Ezra  Shaw  Goodwin.  By 
Convers  Francis.     [3d  series,  V.  (1836),  282-286.] 
Gore,  Christopher.  Memoir  of  the  late  Hon.  Christopher  Gore,  of 
Waltham,  Mass.  By  Samuel  Ripley.  [3d  series,  III.  (1833),  191- 
209.]     See  Proc.  2d  series,  VI.  240. 
Grahame,  James.  Memoir  of  James  Grahame,  LL.D.  By  Josiah 
Quincy.  [3d  series,  IX.  (1846),  1-41.]  See  Proc.  2d  series,  VI. 
240. 
Harris,  Thaddeus  Mason.  Memoir  of  Rev.  Thaddeus  Mason  Har- 
ris, D.D.  By  Nathaniel  L.  Frothingham.  [4th  series,  II.  (1854), 
130-155.]     See  Proc.  2d  series,  VI.  231. 
Holmes,  Abiel.  Memoir  of  the  Rev.  Abiel  Holmes,  D.D.,  LL.D., 
&c.     By  William  Jenks.     [3d  series,  VII.  (1838),  270-282.] 
Lawrence,  Abbott.  Memoir  of  Abhott  Lawrence.  By  Nathan 
Appleton.  [4th  series,  IV.  (1858),  495-507.]  See  Proc.  2d  series, 
VI.  222. 
Lincoln,  Benjamin.  Notices  of  the  Life  of  Major  General  Benjamin 
Lincoln.  By  John  T.  Kirkland.  [2d  series,  III.  (1815),  233-255.] 
See  Proc.  2d  series,  VI.  236. 
This  article  is  signed  "  P.  C."  ;  but  in  the  Collections,  2d 
series,  Volume  X.,  page  201,  the  authorship  is  ascribed  to 
John  T.  Kirkland,  President  of  Harvard  College.  Could 
"P.  C."  stand  for  President  of  the  College? 
Lincoln,  William.     Memoir  of  William  Lincoln.     By  Joseph  Wil- 
lard.     [3d  series,  X.  (1849),  225-235.]     See   Proc.  2d  series,  VI. 
245. 
Lothrop,  Isaac.     Biographical  notices  of  Isaac  Lothrop,  Esq.     By 
John  Davis.     [2d  series,  I.  (1814),  258-260.] 
Litnt,  William  Parsons.     Memoir  of  William  Parsons  Lnnt,  D.D. 
By  Nathaniel  L.  Frothingham.     [4th  series,  IV.  (1858),  508-514.] 
See  Proc.  2d  series,  VI.  231. 
 - 159 - 
124  MASSACHUSETTS  HISTORICAL   SOCIETY.  [Dec. 
McKean,  Joseph.     A   Sketch  of  the  Life  and   Character  of  Rev. 
Joseph  McKean,  D.D.  LL.D.  late  Boylston  Professor  of  Rhetorick 
and  Oratory,  in  Harvard  University.      By  Levi  Hedge.     [2d  series, 
VIII.  (1819),  157-167.] 
Marsh,  Ebenezer  Grant.     Memoir  of  Mr.  Ebenezer  Grant  Marsh, 
deceased,  extracted    from    Dr.   [James]   Dana's  Funeral  Discourse. 
[1st  series,  IX.  (1804),  108-111.] 
This  memoir  is  signed  "mn"  (James  Win throp ?).      See 
Fiske,  William,  ante. 
Minot,  George  Richards.  Character  of  the  Hon.  George  Richards 
Minot,  Esq.  Judge  of  Probate  in  the  County  of  Suffolk,  and  Judge 
of  the  Municipal  Court  in  Boston  :  extracted  from  an  Eulogy  deliv- 
ered a  
few  days  after  his  death.  By  James  Freeman.  [1st  series, 
VIII.  (1802),  86-109.] 
Peck,  William  Dandridge.  Obituary  Notice  of  Professor  Peck. 
By  Dudley  A.  Tyng.  [2d  series,  X.  (1823),  161-170.]  See  Proc. 
2d  series,  VI.  243. 
P emberton,  Thomas.  Memoir  of  Mr.  Thomas  Pemberton,  a  Member 
of  the  Historical  Society.  By  John  Eliot.  [1st  series,  X.  (1809), 
190,  191.] 
This  is  known  to  have  been  written  by  John  Eliot,  but  is 
signed  "  h  e." 
Pickering,   John.      Memoir  of  Hon.  John  Pickering,  LL.D.     By 
William  H.  Prescott.     [3d  series.  X.  (1849),  204-224.]     See  Proc. 
2d  series,  VI.  240. 
Pierce,  John.      Memoir  of  John  Pierce,  D.D.      Communicated  by 
Charles  Lowell.     [4th  series,  I.  (1852),  277-295.]     See  Proc.  2d 
series,  VI.  237. 
This  memoir  was  written  for  Dr.  Lowell  by  Mrs.  Mary  Wild 
(Pierce)  Poor,  of  Brookline,  youngest  child  of  Dr.  Pierce. 
Price,  Ezekiel.  Notice  of  Ezekiel  Price,  Esquire,  Member  of  the 
Historical  Society.  By  Thomas  Dawes,  Jr.  [1st  series,  VIII. 
(1802),  85.] 
This  notice  is  signed  uj.  t.  e?."  (Thomas  Dawes,  Jr.). 
Prince,  John.     Memoir  of  Rev.  John  Prince,  LL.D.     By  Charles 
W.  Upham.     [3d  series,  V.  (1836),  271-282.] 
Saltonstall,  Leverett.    Notice  of  the  Life  of  Hon.  Leverett  Salton- 
stall.     By  Benjamin  Merrill.     [3d  series,  IX.   (1846),   117-125.] 
See  Proc.  2d  series,  VI.  238. 
Spooner,  William  Jones.     Memoir  of  William  Jones  Spooner,  Esq. 
By  Francis  C.  Gray.     [3d  series,  I.  (1825),  265-271.] 
 - 160 - 
1891.]  EEMARKS   BY  THE   HON.    R.   C.   WINTHROP.  125 
Sullivan,  James.  Biographical  Memoir  of  the  Honourable  James 
Sullivan,  Esq.   F.  H.  S.  &c.  &c.     By  James  Winthrop.     [2d  series, 
I.  (1814),  252-254.] 
Thacher,  Peter.  Memoirs  of  the  Rev.  Dr.  Thacher.  By  John 
Eliot.    [1st  series,  VIII.  (1802),  277-284.] 
Thomas,  Joshua.  Memoir  of  Hon.  Joshua  Thomas,  of  Plymouth, 
who  died  January  10,  1821.  By  Alden  Bradford.  [2d  series,  X. 
(1823),  1-6.] 
Tudor,  William.  Memoir  of  Hon.  William  Tudor.  By  William 
Tudor,  Jr.  [2d  series,  VIII.  (1819),  285-325.]  See  Proc.  2d 
series,  VI.  243. 
Tyng,  Dudley  Atkins.  Biographical  Notice  of  the  late  Dudley  At- 
kins Tyng,  LL.D.    By  his  intimate  friend,  John  Lowell.     [3d  series, 
II.  (1830),  280-295.]     See  Proc.  2d  series,  VI.  237. 
Watson,  Marston.  Biographical  Notices  of  Marston  Watson,  Esq., 
Member  of  the  Historical  Society.  By  John  Davis.  [1st  series, 
VIII.  (1802),  80,  81.] 
This  article  is  signed  ud.  j.  d."  Could  this  be  meant  for 
Dr.  John  Davis,  as  he  was  an  LL.D.  ? 
Whitney,  Peter.     Biographical  Notice  of  Rev.  Peter  Whitney,  A.M. 
and  S.  H.  S.     By  Thaddeus  M.  Harris.     [2d  series,  VII.  (1818), 
177,  178.] 
Winthrop,  James.     Biographical  Notice  of  Hon.  James  Winthrop, 
who  died    September,   1821,  aged  69.     By  Alden   Bradford.     [2d 
series,  X.  (1823),  77-80.] 
Winthrop,  Thomas  Lindall.     Memoir  of  the  late  Thomas  L.  Win- 
throp, President  of  the  Massachusetts  Historical  Society,  etc.     By 
William  Jenks.     [4th  series,  II.  (1854),  202-214.] 
Young,  Alexander.     Memoir  of  Rev.  Alexander  Young,  D.D.     By 
Chandler  Robbins.     [4th  series,  II.  (1854),  241-245.] 
Dr.  William  Everett,  Dr.  Samuel  A.  Green,  and  the 
President  having  spoken  of  some  recent  contributions  to 
historical  literature  then  on  the  table,  the  Hon.  Robert  C. 
Winthrop,  who  was  in  excellent  voice,  said:  — 
I  do  not  forget  that  it  is  not  the  turn  of  my  section  this 
afternoon  ;  
but  as  attention  has  been  called  to  some  of  the 
good  books  which  have  recently  been  published,  I  may  be 
permitted  to  allude  to  a  remarkable  volume  which  I  
have  just 
read  with  the  greatest  interest.  I  refer  to  the  Life,  Corre- 
spondence, and  Speeches  of  the  famous  Patrick  Henry,  by 
his  grandson,  William  Wirt  Henry,  one  of  our  Corresponding 
 - 161 - 
126  MASSACHUSETTS   HISTORICAL  SOCIETY.  [Dec. 
Members,  and  President  of  the  American  Historical  Associa- 
tion. The  work  is  to  be  in  three  volumes,  but  the  first  only 
has  been  issued. 
There  have  now  been  at  least  three  memoirs,  or  biographies, 
of  this  great  Virginian  patriot  and  statesman.  The  first  was 
by  William  Wirt,  an  eminent  lawyer,  once  the  Attorney-Gen- 
eral of  the  United  States,  and  an  orator  of  great  eloquence. 
I  recall  the  exceeding  pleasure  with  which  I  heard  him  argue 
a  memorable  case  in  our  Massachusetts  Supreme  Court,  Daniel 
Webster  being  the  opposing  counsel,  while  I  was  studying  law 
in  Webster's  office,  some  sixty  years  ago.  He  was  one  of  the 
very  most  eloquent  speakers  to  whom  I  had  ever  listened 
then,  or  have  ever  listened  since.  I  was  almost  disposed  to 
give  him  the  preference  over  Webster  himself.  His  biography 
of  Patrick  Henry  was  a  brilliant,  though  a  brief  one.  But 
he  had  not  then  the  materials  for  making  it  a  full  one,  or,  in- 
deed, an  entirely  just  and  correct  one.  He  sent  a  copy  to 
Mr.  Jefferson,  who  was  accustomed  to  catalogue  his  library 
systematically,  dividing  it  into  history,  philosophy,  fiction, 
and  the  rest.  On  reading  Wirt's  Henry  he  is  said  to  have 
expressed  himself  very  much  puzzled  and  perplexed  as  to 
how  he  should  classify  it,  and,  at  last,  to  have  set  it  down 
under  the  head  of  fiction. 
Quite  recently  an  admirable  Memoir  of  Patrick  Henry  — 
for  the  American  Statesman  Series,  I  believe  —  has  been  writ- 
ten by  
our  accomplished  Corresponding  Member,  Prof.  Moses 
Coit  Tyler,  of  which  I  cannot  speak  too  warmty,  and  which 
is  worthy  of  the  highest  commendation.  But  the  volumes 
of  that  series  are  limited  in  the  number  of  their  pages,  and 
perhaps  even  of  their  words,  and  are  more  noted  for  conden- 
sation than  for  completeness. 
This  new  work,  by  Patrick  Henry's  grandson,  who  had  all 
the  family  papers  at  his  command,  with  ample  abilities  for 
using  them,  and  upon  whom  there  were  no  restrictions  or 
limitations,  cannot  fail  to  be  considered  now,  and  in  all  time 
to  come,  the  standard  biography  of  one  of  the  greatest  orators 
and  statesmen  our  country  has  produced  ; —  for  such  Patrick 
Henry  certainly  was,  in  the  judgment  of  his  contemporaries, 
and  this  volume  abounds  in  confirmatory  evidence  of  the 
correctness  of  that  judgment. 
It  was  to  Patrick  Henry  that  John  Adams  wrote,  on  the  3d 
 - 162 - 
1891.]  GOVERNOR   WINTHROP'S   ESTATE.  127 
of  June,  1776,  —  a  month  before  the  Declaration  of  Indepen- 
dence, —  
telling  him  that  to  him  will  belong  "  the  glory  with 
posterity  of  beginning  and  concluding  this  great  Revolution  "  ; 
and  adding,  "  We  all  look  up  to  Virginia  for  examples." 
This  volume,  with  those  which  are  to  follow  it,  will  be  a 
most  important  addition  to  the  history  of  the  Revolution  and 
of  the  great  men  by  whom  it  was  accomplished. 
The  President  then  announced  the  death  of  Rev.  Thomas 
Hill,  D.D.,  LL.D.,  of  Portland,  Maine,  a  Corresponding  Mem- 
ber, which  occurred  at  Waltham  on  the  21st  of  November. 
Mr.  Charles  C.  Smith  said  that  our  associate  member 
Mr.  Hamilton  A.  Hill  had  recently  presented  to  the  Society 
a  letter  from  Rev.  Dr.  John  Eliot,  at  that  time  Corresponding 
Secretary  of  the  Society,  to  the  Earl  of  Buchan,  informing  him 
of  his  election  as  a  Corresponding  Member.  Lord  Buchan  was 
chosen  August  80,  1808  ;  but  the  letter  communicating  in- 
formation of  
his  election  failed  to  reach  him.  Subsequently 
Dr.  Eliot  wrote  to  him  two  letters  under  date  of  May  9,  1809, 
repeating  the  announcement.  One  of  these  letters  was  given 
to  the  Society  by  the  Hon.  Mellen  Chamberlain  in  September, 
1875,  and  the  other  has  now  been  added  to  our  archives.1 
The  Hon.  Mellen  Chamberlain  presented  the  following 
communication  :  — 
In  the  autumn  of  1639  Governor  Winthrop,  after  nearly 
ten  years  of  unequalled  services  to  the  Colony,  found  his 
estate  greatly  impoverished,  partly  by  his  assiduous  atten- 
tion to  
public  affairs,  and  in  part  by  his  too  implicit  trust  in 
his  bailiff.  The  story,  though  a  sad  one,  is  interesting,  as 
everything  is  which  relates  to  the  personal  history  of  the  great 
magistrate,  and  throws  light  upon  the  history  of  those  days ; 
but  it  has  been  told  neither  with  fulness  nor  precision.  And 
now  that  we  have  much  new  material  scattered  through  the 
volumes  of  the  Winthrop  Papers,2  to  which  I  can  add  a  fact 
or  two  hitherto  unknown,  I  have  undertaken  to  bring  together 
from  different  sources,  and  present  in  this  paper,  whatever 
seems  to  me  essential  to  the  completeness  of  the  narrative. 
The  first  entry  by  Winthrop  in  his  Journal  respecting  this 
affair  is  of  May  13,  1640,  more  than  six  months  after  it  must 
1  See  Proceedings,  vol.  i.  p.  197  note. 
2  4  Mass.  Hist.  Coll.  vols,  vi.,  vii.  ; 5   Mass.  Hist.  Coll.  vol.  i. 
 - 163 - 
128  MASSACHUSETTS   HISTORICAL   SOCIETY.  [Dec. 
have  come  to  his  knowledge  ;  and  even  this  seems  to  have 
been  made  less  for  recording  his  misfortune  than  to  insure  re- 
membrance of  
an  amiable  trait  of  the  people  with  whom  he  had 
cast  his  fortune.  Dudley  had  that  day  superseded  Winthrop 
in  the  chief  magistracy  under  circumstances  that  induced  some 
of  the  clergy  to  wait  upon  him  in  the  way  of  explanation, 
and  to  assure  him  of  their  unabated  respect  and  affection  ;  and 
to  them  he  made  known  u  his  unfeigned  desire  of  more  freedom, 
that  he  might  a  little  intend  his  private  occasion  wherein  (they 
well  knew)  how  much  he  had  lately  suffered  (for  his  bailiff, 
whom  he  had  trusted  with  managing  his  farm,  had  engaged  him 
.£2,500  without  his  privity)  in  his  outward  estate.  This  they 
had  heard  of,  and  were  much  affected  therewith,  and  all  the 
country  in  general,  and  took  course  (the  elders  agreeing  upon 
it  at  that  meeting)  that  supply  should  be  sent  from  the  several 
towns,  by  a  voluntary  contribution,  for  freeing  of  those  engage- 
ments ;  
and  the  court  (having  no  money  to  bestow,  and  being 
yet  much  indebted)  gave  his  wife  three  thousand  acres  of 
land,1  and  some  of  the  towns  sent  in  liberally,  and  some  others 
promised,  but  could  perform  but  little,  and  the  most  nothing 
at  all.  The  whole  came  not  to  X500,  whereof  near  half  came 
from  Boston;  and  one  gentleman  of  Newbury,  Mr.  Richard 
Dummer,  propounded  for  a  supply  by  a  more  private  way,  and 
for  example,  himself  disbursed  £100."  2 
Oct.  25,  1639,  only  a  short  time  before  the  Governor 
knew  of  his  misfortune,  and  from  a  desire,  as  he  said,  "  to 
settle  the  affairs  of  my  family,"  he  drafted  a  will  in  which 
he  disposed  of  his  landed  estate,  all  of  which,  with  the  ex- 
ception of  
one  parcel  in  England  settled  upon  his  wife,  was 
in  New  England  ;  and  to  this  draft,  less  than  two  years  later, 
June  25, 1641,  he  appended  the  following  memorandum  :  — 
"  My  estate  becoming  since  much  decayed  through  the  unfaithfulness 
of  my  servant  Luxford,  so  as   I  have  been  forced  to  sell  some  of  my 
1  Col.  Rec.  vol.  i.  p.  295.  This  grant  of  the  General  Court,  of  the  same  date 
as  the  Governor's  entry  in  his  Journal,  May  13,  1640,  was  in  these  words  : "   There 
is  3,000  acres  of  land  granted  to  Mrs.  Winthrope,  the  wife  of  Mr.  John  Win- 
thrope,  our  late  Governor,  to  bee  at  her  disposeing  for  her  &  her  sons,  where 
they  shall  desire  it,  without  prejudice  to  any  former  grant."  See  also  Col.  Rec, 
vol.  i.  p.  346.  This  grant,  "  which  lyeth  in  the  bounds  of  Billerica  at  the  mouth 
of  Concord  River,"  was  known  as  "  
Mrs.  Margaret  Winthrop's  farm  "  as  late  as 
Oct.  31,  1668.     Suffolk  Deeds,  vol.  v.  p.  500. 
2  Savage's  Winthrop,  vol.  ii.  p.  3. 
 - 164 - 
1891.]  GOVERNOR   WINTHROP'S   ESTATE.  129 
land  already,  and  must  sell  more  for  satisfaction  of  Z.2,600  debts, 
whereof  I  did  not  know  of  more  than  Z.300,  when  I  intended  this  for 
my  testament,  I  am  now  forced  to  revoke  it,  
and  must  leave  all  to  the 
most  wise  and  gracious  providence  of  the  Lord,  who  hath  promised 
not  to  fail  nor  forsake  me,  but  will  be  an  husband  to  my  wife  and  a 
father  to  our  children,  as  he  hath  hereto  been  in  all  our  struggles. 
Blessed  be   his  holy  name." 
No  one  acquainted  with  Winthrop's  services  and  character 
can  read  these  words  without  emotion,  nor,  without  heightened 
admiration  and  love,  those  other  words  already  given  from  his 
Journal,  which  record  the  efforts  of  the  Colony,  and  several 
towns  and  many  private  individuals,  to  lessen  the  severity  of 
the  blow  by  contributions  from  their  meagre  resources,  and  also 
by  their  assurances  of  respect  and  affection,  most  valued  by 
Winthrop.  The  lustre  of  his  character  ever  after  shone 
brighter  in  the  light  reflected  upon  it  from  the  community  in 
which  he  lived. 
I  have  now  given  all  the  facts  bearing  on  this  affair  which, 
so  far  as  we  know,  were  before  Savage  in  1853,  when  he  pub- 
lished the  second  edition  of  Winthrop's  Journal.  To  certain 
figures  [(8)  29,  1639]  found  in  the  margin  of  the  draft  of  his 
will,  Savage  has  appended  the  following  note  :  — 
"We  can  hardly  doubt,  that  was  the  date  of  this  second  will,  drawn 
only  a  short  time  previous  to  the  news  from  England,  of  the  loss  of  his 
estate  by  the  means  of  his  servant  there."  * 
This  implies  that  Winthrop,  in  some  way  known  to  Savage, 
but  not  disclosed  to  us,  had  received  information  from  England 
of  the  loss  of  his  estate  there,  by  means  of  his  servant  also 
there.  How  far  that  was  the  case  will  appear  in  due  order. 
In  the  mean  time  it  is  not  easy  to  understand  how  Savage  dealt 
with  certain  facts  found  on  the  very  pages  before  him  for 
comment.  Winthrop's  own  account  of  the  transaction  is,  that 
his  loss  was  by  "  his  bailiff  whom  he  trusted  with  managing 
his  farm;''  —  presumably  his  Tenhills  farm  up  the  Mystic,  and 
the  only  one  he  is  known  to  have  carried  on  ;  and  by  com- 
parison of Winthrop's  will  of  1639  with  that  of  1620,  it  is 
apparent  that  at  the  latter  date  he  had  disposed  of  all  his 
English  estates  except  one  held  in  trust  for  Mrs.  Winthrop 
and  her  children,  by  Deane  Tynclale,  her  brother,  and    quite 
1  Journal,  vol.17  ii.  p.  440  note. 
 - 165 - 
130  MASSACHUSETTS   HISTORICAL   SOCIETY.  [Dec. 
beyond  the  reach  of  James  Luxford,  whether  in  America  or 
in  England. 
Nevertheless,  so  deservedly  high  was  Savage's  authority  on 
questions  relating  to  the  Colony,  that  his  assertion  has  been 
accepted  as  truth  absolute,  and  even  his  silence  as  negation 
of  facts  otherwise  possible. 
But  we  have  a  large  mass  of  evidence  inaccessible  to  him 
when  he  wrote,  which  leaves  no  doubt  that  he  was  mistaken  ; 
and  inasmuch  as  he  has  misled,  and  notwithstanding  that 
evidence  still  misleads,  it  seems  necessary  to  repeat  it  with 
fulness  and  even  with  prolixity. 
From  Winthrop's  first  will  we  know  his  landed  estates  in 
England,  May  10,  1620  j1  and  we  also  know  that  when  he 
and  some  others  had  "  determined  for  New  England,"  they 
proceeded  to  sell  their  lands,  which  in  his  case  was  not  com- 
pleted until  some  time  after  his  arrival  here,  —  Groton  Manor 
becoming  the  estate  of  the  Warings  not  far  from  1631  ;  
but 
as  we  hear  nothing  of  them  after  1631,  all  except  a  trust 
estate  were  probably  disposed  of  before  the  date  of  his  second 
will,  Oct.  29,  1639,  for  that  will  was  drawn,  as  he  says,  "  for 
settling  the  affairs  of  his  family "  ;  and  any  settlement  is 
hardly  conceivable  which  did  not  include  his  English  estates, 
if  any  remained.  It  is  true  that  he  speaks  of  the  "  uncer- 
tainty of  
my  estate  in  England,"  which  may  refer  to  moneys 
due  him  there,  and  made  precarious  by  the  disturbed  state  of 
the  times,  which  soon  became  revolutionary  ;  but  I  think  it 
more  likely  that  he  had  in  mind  the  estate  settled  upon  his 
wife,  and  in  respect  to  which  he  says  :  — 
"  Though  I  left  an  estate  for  her  in  England,  yet  being  doubtful  what 
may  become  of  that,  and  having  had  Z.400  of  it  already,  my  will  is, 
she  should  be  maintained  in  a  comfortable  and  honorable  condition,  ac- 
cording to  
her  place,  and  as  my  estate  will  bear,  therefore  I  give  unto 
her  half  of  my  farm  Tenhills  during  her  life,  with  the  use  of  such 
stock  as  shall  be  left  upon  it  (my  debts,  etc.  paid.)  " 
We  learn  more  about  this  estate,  and  Winthrop's  interest  in 
it,  from  the  following  letters  written  to  him  by  his  trusted 
friend  John  Tinker.    Feb.  26,  1640,  he  writes  from  London  : 
"  Mr.  Tindall  2  
hath  not  as  yet  sould  your  worshipp's  land,  but  doth 
indeauour  to  put  it  to  sale,  which,  if  it  be  sould,  I  doe  intend,  according 
1  Savage,  vol.  ii.  p.  436. 
2  Deane  Tyndale,  Mrs.  Winthrop's  brother,  appears  to  have  been  the  trustee 
under  her  marriage  settlement. 
 - 166 - 
1891.]  GOVERNOR   WINTHROP'S   ESTATE.  131 
to  your  worshipp's  apoyntment,  to  request  100  li.  or  2  to  convert  to 
your  vse."  1 
And  again :  — 
"  From  The  Downes,  May  28,  1640,  ...  I  have  received  your  letters 
with  your  orders  for  the  payment  of  800  li.  to  seuerall  men,  which  I 
was  to  take  vpp  of  Mr.  Tindall,  if  the  land  weare  sould  ; or  if  not  to 
borowe  of  such  gent:  as  ware  your  ffrends,  as  Mr.  Gurdon,  Dockter 
Wright  &c.  I  was  with  Mr.-  Tindall,  and  the  land  is  sould  ; 2  yett  he, 
standing  ingaged  as  ffefee  in  trust,  for  the  stateing  of  my  mistresse  & 
the  chilldren  in  the  meanes  at  the  time  appoynted,  will  not  disburce 
any  more  than  may  stand  with  his  security,  until!  he  haue  a  releace 
from  mistresse  and  the  children  :  Mr.  Stephen  being  at  age,  he  hath 
sent  a  release  for  him  to  sigue  to;  and  vppon  the  returning  of  it  will 
part  with  more  .  .  ."   8 
From  these  letters  it  is  clear  that  Winthrop's  estate  in  Eng- 
land was  that  held  by  Deane  Tyndale  in  fee,  but  in  trust  prob- 
ably to  
the  use  of  Mr.  and  Mrs.  Winthrop  for  their  lives,  and 
that  of  the  survivor,  with  remainder  to  their  children.  This 
would  justify  Winthrop  in  speaking  of  it  as  his  estate,  —  that 
is,  an  estate  in  which  he  had  an  interest  ;  nor  does  it  appear 
that  at  that  time  he  had  any  other. 
So  we  must  look  elsewhere  for  Winthrop's  estate  which 
was  the  subject  of  Luxford's  peculations.  Winthrop,  in  a 
letter  written  to  Rev.  Ezekiel  Rogers  of  Rowley,  one  of  his 
creditors,  gives  the  following  explicit  and  satisfactory  account 
of  one  way  in  which  his  servant  defrauded  him  :  — 
"  .  .  .  Yet  there  is  something  troubles  me  a  little,  that  some  of  my 
Christian  friends  should  take  advantage  of  my  servants  unfaithfulnesse 
to  gett  suche  bargains,  as  some  of  them  have  (upon  better  consideration) 
been  sorrye  for,  and  have  released  them,  and  withall  holpen  to  ease 
my  burden,  by  lending  me  freely  :  but  others  call  strictly  &  hastyly 
for  the  like,  which  thoughe  I  look  at  it  as  an  Injury  yet  I  have  not  com- 
plained of  
it  to  any  nor  doe  I  intende  to  doe,  being  persuaded  that  they 
are  suche  as  doe  abhorre  all  oppressinge  practizes  (thoughe  a  good  man 
may  steppe  aside  that  waye  unawares  especially  in  N  : E  :) &  knowinge 
1  4  Mass.  Hist.  Coll.  vol.  vii.  p.  221. 
2  Francis  Bacon,  of  the  family  of  the  Lord  Keeper,  Sir  Nicholas  Bacon,  was  the 
purchaser.  For  his  letter  to  Winthrop  in  respect  to  this  matter,  from  Shrubland, 
April  16,  1640,  see  5  Mass.  Hist.  Coll.  vol.  i.  p.  289 ;  and  Deane  Tyndale's  letter 
to  same,  Winthrop's  Life,  vol.  ii.  p.  258. 
3  4  Mass.  Hist.  Coll.  vol.  vii.  p.  226. 
 - 167 - 
132  MASSACHUSETTS    HISTORICAL   SOCIETY.  [Dec. 
your  wisdome  &  integritye,  I  will  make  you  Iudge  in  the  case  :  it  may 
be  you  will  not  meet  with  the  like  (all  circumstances  wayed)  &  thus 
it  stands  :  Some  of  them  let  my  servant  have  moneye  without  my  desire 
or  privitye,  till  they  came  to  me  for  their  security  &  they  acquaint  me 
with  it  in  such  maher,  as  I  could  apprehende  no  other,  but  that  they 
lent  it  freely  to  doe  me  a  Courtesye,  (having  then  no  present  occasion  to 
make  use  of  it  themselves)  so  now  they  have  engaged  me  to  requite 
this  kindnesse  some  other  waye,  but  withall,  they  privately  contracte 
with  my  servant  for  large  interest,  &  take  a  bill  of  him  for  delivery 
of  so  much  Corne  at  an  under  rate,  but  no  mention  for  what  considera- 
tion :  
nor  was  I  ever  like  to  haue  knowne  it  either  from  them  or  from 
my  servant,  had  not  a  stranger  (grievinge  (as  he  sayd)  2  to  see  how  my 
estate  went  awaye)  given  me  notice  thereof  lately,  whereupon  I  exam- 
ined my  servant  who  then  confessed  it  to  me  :  Otherwise  I  had  payd 
interest  for  money,  &  yet  been  engaged  to  them  for  that,  which  it 
seems  now,  they  lent  for  their  owne  advantage  ;  
for  why  would  they 
not  else  haue  acquainted  me  with  the  Interest  as  well  as  the  principall? 
except  they  held  it  either  not  to  be  so  lawful],  or  not  of  so  good  reporte 
to  take  interest,  as  to  lende  money.  Thus  my  Corne  that  I  had  pro- 
vided for  the  food  of  my  familye  is  sould  awaye  without  my  privitye 
(thoughe  I  was  neere  enoughe  to  haue  been  spoken  with)2  some  at  28 
the  bz  under  the  market,  some  12d,  some  more,  some  lesse,  whereas 
if  they  had  tould  me  when  they  took  securitye  for  their  money,  that  I 
must  have  payd  suche  rates  for  it,  I  could  have  served  my  occasions 
otherwise,  &  could  as  well  have  made  use  of  my  funds  or  other  means 
there  for  2  :  or  300  lb.  as  I  am  forced  now  to  doe  to  paye  their  principall 
&  use  withall."  3 
Edward  Carlton,  one  of  those  who  made  extortionate  bar- 
gains with  Luxford,  thus  excuses  himself  to  Winthrop  :  — 
"  .  .  .  And  wheras  you  write  of  your  takeing  offence,  and  ye  cause, 
which  you  say  was  my  takeing  interest  for  my  money:  —  first  I  say  yt 
which  your  man  borrowed  of  me  in  your  name  was  most  of  my  estate, 
out  of  which  I  had  a  familye  to  raentaine,  yt  I  am  to  take  care  for  in 
the  way  of  the  Lord.  Againe,  when  I  told  you  yt  he  did  owe  me 
money,  I  did  not  tell  you  of  ye  interest  I  was  to  haue  for  it,  
my  reason 
was  yt  I  did  thinke  that  you  were  privye  to  all  his  doeinges  ;  and  as 
for  ye  quantitye  of  money  that  I  was  to  haue  for  the  interest  of  a  sum 
of  a  170  pounds  od  money,  was  but  24  pounds,  accordinge  as  corne  ruled 
1  This  shows  conclusively  that  Winthrop  first  got  his  information  of  Luxford's 
rascality,  not  from  England,  but  from  a  personal  interview  with  some  one  here. 
2  This  shows  that  the  fraudulent  transactions  were  here,  not  in  England. 
8  Life  and  Letters  of  John  Winthrop,  vol.  ii.  p.  419.  See  also  5  Mass.  Hist. 
Coll.  vol.  i.  pp.  283,  304,  308,  311. 
 - 168 - 
1891.]  GOVERNOR    WINTHROP'S   ESTATE.  133 
about  ye  time  yt  he  had  the  money  of  me.  Ye  time  that  he  had  the 
money  of  me  was  nie  a  yeare  and  a  halfe,  soe  that  I  know  no  grounde 
yt  you  should  take  offence  att,  and  beside  I  suppose  yt  you  are  not 
ignorant  what  rate  ye  country  hath  always  given  for  ye  interest  of  a 
100  pound  for  a  year,  which  is  now  20  pound  a  yeare  ;  
it  was  sore 
against  my  mind  that  he  had  my  money  soe  long  as  he  had.  I  doe  be- 
lieve that  if  any  one  had  gained  no  more  by  him  than  my  selfe,  I  think 
your  estate  would  not  have  been  impayred  by  him,  soe  yt  I  hope  yr  is 
noe  just  cause  why  you  should  be  offended."  l 
Luxford  played  the  more  dangerous  game  of  forgery.  John 
Tinker,  in  a  letter  already  quoted,  writes  to  Winthrop  from 
London,  Feb.  26,  1640  :  — 
"...  I  heare  Goodman  Luxford  hath  charged  bills  of  exchange 
vppon  men  in  Loudon  for  some  hundred  pounds,  of  which  some  is  for 
the  vse  of  Mr.  Valentine  Hill,  for  so  much  receved  of  him  there,  and 
was  to  be  paid  to  Mr.  Hutchinson,  linen  draper  in  Cheapside  ; 2  now 
the  partyes  seeing  so  litle  reason  why  he  should  charge  anything  one 
them,  haue  protested  his  bills,  and  doe  think  it  to  be  little  better  than 
a  cheate."  3 
Again,  April  13,  1640  :  — 
"  .  .  .  I  doe  heare  a  dayly  complainte  of  Goodman  Luxford,  vppon 
the  Exchange,  for  charging  bills  vppon  men  for  the  payment  of  great 
somes  of  mony  heare,  for  soe  much  taken  vpp  there  of  some  new 
comers  ouer,  for  your  worshipps  vsse,  which  doth  apere  to  men  of  vn- 
derstanding  to  haue  an  ill  face  of  deceipt,  the  men  to  whom  he  sends 
being  such  as  he  neuer  had  dealings  with  for  a  peny,  nor  doe  se  any 
reason  why  he  should  charge  any  such  bills  vppon  them,  eyther  in  your 
worshipps  or  his  owne  name."  4 
When  or  whence  James  Luxford  came  to  the  Bay  and 
took  charge  of  Winthrop's  farm  is  of  small  account  ;  and  so  is 
his  later  history,  save  as  connected  with  the  Governor's.  But 
that  he  ever  was  in  England  after  coming  to  New  England  is 
highly  improbable.     He  may  have  been  in  Winthrop's  service 
1  5  Mass.  Hist.  Coll.  vol.  i.  p.  309. 
2  That  is,  Valentine  Hill,  a  Boston  merchant,  having  occasion  to  remit  to  his 
creditor,  a  merchant  in  London,  bought  a  bill  of  exchange  drawn  on  a  party 
there  by  Luxford  in  Boston  without  authority.  The  bill  was  protested,  of  course, 
and  Winthrop  was  informed  of  the  transaction.  The  sight  of  some  such  protest 
may  have  misled  Savage. 
3  4  Mass.  Hist.  Coll.  vol.  vii.  p.  221. 
4  Ibid.  p.  224. 
 - 169 - 
134  MASSACHUSETTS  HISTORICAL   SOCIETY.  [Dec. 
in  May,  1633  ; *  and  by  a  bigamous  marriage  he  had  children 
in  1637  and  1641.  He  was  here  Dec.  4,  1638,  the  year  before 
his  unfaithfulness  was  discovered.2  Dec.  3,  1639,  he  was 
presented  for  having  two  wives,  fined  ,£100,  ordered  to  be 
set  in  the  stocks,  and  "  to  be  sent  away  for  England  by  the 
first  opportunity."  3  December  10,  Hugh  Peter  writes  Win- 
throp  from  Salem  :  "  James  Luxford  was  at  Sagust  when  I 
came  by  ; I   have  layd  out  for  him."  4  And  May  13,  1640,  the 
General  Court  took  him  in  hand  again,  and  "  for  his  forgery, 
lying,  and  other  foule  offences,  he  was  censured  to  bee  bound 
to  the  whiping  poust  till  the  lecture  from  the  first  bell,  and 
after  the  lecture  to  have  his  eares  cut  of;  and  so  hee  had 
liberty  to  depart  out  of  our  jurisdiction."  5  Of  this  permis- 
sion he  availed  himself;  for  the  next  we  hear  of  him  is  in 
a  letter  from  Governor  Winslow  to  Winthrop,  dated  Oct.  10, 
1640,  in  which  he  says  :  — 
"  By  the  enclosed  you  may  perceiue  the  ernest  request  of  your  un- 
dutiful  servant  Luxford,  who  hath  no  lesse  but  much  more  importuned 
me  since  I  received  his  lines,  using  Paul's  plea  for  Onesimus,  &c.  but 
you  know  the  man  &  his  manner  of  importunity,  pleading  his  paines 
&  care  so  many  years,  &  however  his  faylings  were  great  yet  I  per- 
ceiue he  
thinks  his  paines  to  be  greater,  &  that  in  his  extreame  ne- 
cessity you  should  take  compassion  on  him,  but  1  refer  him  to  your 
mercy  &  yet  would  have  you  consider  well  what  you  doe.  The 
truth  is  I  thinke  he  is  very  pore  :  for  he  worketh  not,  yet  offered  me 
his  labor  this  harvest  for  his  dyet,  which  for  some  reasons  I  durst  not 
accept,  but  pitty  the  man.  Pie  hath  taken  a  ffarme  of  Mr.  Hanbury 
which  was  Mr.  Brown's  at  A I  per  annum,  but  how  he  will  pay  it  or 
raise  it  I  know  not,  especially  when  he  hath  neither  stock,  security, 
foode,  nor  credit.  He  saith  there  are  some  in  the  bay  will  affourd  him 
some  help ;  but  who  they  are  or  what  it  is  I  know  not."  6 
The  Records  give  us  some  information  —  and  I  expect  to 
add  more  —  respecting  the  lands  Winthrop  had  been  forced  to 
sell  before  June  25,  1641,  when  he  revoked  his  will  ;  and  also 
1  4  Mass.  Hist.  Coll.  vol.  vi.  p.  55. 
2  Col.  Rec.  vol.  i.  p.  245 ;  
Lechford's  Note-Book,  p.  139  n. 
3  Ibid.  p.  283. 
4  4  Mass.  Hist.  Coll.  vol.  vii.  p.  202. 
5  Col.  Rec.  vol.  i.  p.  295. 
6  4  Mass.  Hist.  Coll.  vol.  vi.  p.  169.  Those  who  care  to  read  his  letters  to  Win- 
throp as  
late  as  1646  will  find  them  in  5  Mass.  Hist.  Coll.  vol.  i.  pp.  127-147. 
 - 170 - 
1891.]  GOVERNOR    WINTHROP  S    ESTATE.  135 
those  he  sold  afterwards.  August  17,  1640,  by  deed  not  re- 
corded until  March  26,  1648,1  he  sold  to  his  son  Stephen  one 
half  of  Prudence  Island,  in  Narraganset  Bay,  in  consideration 
of  part  of  his  interest  in  some  lands  in  England  lately  sold  to 
Francis  Barne  [Bacon],  Esq.,  which  he  released  for  the  Gov- 
ernor's use  ; 2   March  1,  1642,  u  with  Margarett  his  wife,  and 
Adam  their  son,  the  Hand  called  the  Governors  Garden,  in 
the  Massachusetts  Baye,  to  Henry  Dunster,  president  of  Har- 
vard College,  in  Cambridge,  and  Capt.  George  Cooke  gent.  & 
theire  heirs  for  the  use  of  the  said  Adam  &  Elizabeth,  &  the 
heires  of  theire  two  bodyes  :  the  remainder  to  the  sayd  Adam 
&  his  heires  only  the  said  John  Winthrop  &  Margarett  his 
wife  doe  reserve  unto  themselves,  &  the  longer  liver  of  them, 
one  third  part  of  all  such  apples,  peares,  grapes,  plumes,  as 
shalbe  yearly  growinge  upon  said  land  "  ; 3  Sept.  22,  1643, 
u  to  his  son  John  &  Elizabeth  his  wife,  for  life  &  after  to 
their  son  Fitz-John,  1200  acres  upon  Concord  river  &  60 
acres  adjoining,  together  with  part  of  the  Tenhills  farm  in 
Charlestown,  in  consideration  of  X150,  part  of  a  greater  sum 
due  to  his  son,  &  reserving  to  himself  and  wife  &  the  sur- 
,  1  Notwithstanding  five  orders  passed  by  the  Court  between  1634  and  1640 
(Col.  Rec.  vol.  i.  pp.  116,  137,  201,  276,  306),  to  the  general  effect  of  defining 
possessions  by  record,  the  Colonists  seem  to  have  taken  no  more  kindly  to  a  new 
way,  or  to  the  publicity  of  their  estates,  than  their  kindred  in  England  in  later 
days  have  to  the  often  proposed  general  registration  law.  Finally,  in  1652  (Col. 
Rec.  vol.  iii.  p.  280),  the  General  Court  took  the  matter  in  hand,  with  an  interest- 
ing recital  of  the  English  practice  in  those  days  :  "  Whereas  the  way  of  passinge 
of  houses  &  landes  by  sale,  in  England,  is  both  peaceable  &  effectual,  namely, 
by  deed  or  writing,  sealed  &  delivered,  with  livery  and  seizin,  or  possession  given 
of  the  same  before  witnesses,  or  by  deed  acknowledged  &  enroled,  or  by  sueing  a 
fine,  &  that  divers  within  this  jurisdiction  are  apt  to  rest  uppon  a  verball  bar- 
gane  or  sale  for  bowses  or  landes  of  any  value,  this  Court,  havinge  taken  this  thing 
into  serious  consideration,  doth  hereby  declare  and  order,  for  the  prevention  of 
all  clandestine  &  uncertayne  sales  &  tytles,  that  henceforth  no  sale  or  alienation 
of  howses  or  landes  in  this  jurisdiction  shalbe  good  in  law,  except  the  same  be 
done  by  deed  in  writing,  under  hand  &  seale,  &  delivered,  &  possession  given 
uppon  part,  in  the  name  of  the  whole,  by  the  vendor,  or  his  atturney  so  author- 
ized under  hand  &  seale,  unles  the  said  deed  be  acknowledged  according  to  law 
&  recorded." 
After  the  passage  of  this  order  the  records  of  deeds,  no  less  to  the  satisfaction 
of  the  antiquary  than  of  the  conveyancer,  show  more  completeness  than  before; 
but  the  force  of  the  old  English  custom  of  taking  possession  with  livery  and 
seizin  by  twig  and  turf  occasionally  appears,  though  made  unnecessary  by  the 
acknowledgment  and  record  of  the  deed. 
2  Suffolk  Deeds,  vol.  i.  p.  102. 
3  Ibid.  p.  25. 
 - 171 - 
136  MASSACHUSETTS   HISTORICAL  SOCIETY.  [Dec. 
vivor  one  third  of  the  fruit  annually  growing  thereon  "  ; 2 
Sept.  26,  1643,  "  to  William  Ting  and  others,  his  mansion 
house  in  Boston,  together  with  Tenhills  farm  except  what 
was  conveyed  by  the  deed  next  above  mentioned,  in  considera- 
tion of  
debts  due  them  and  others  "  ; 2  Nov.  12,  1643,  "  to  his 
son  Stephen,  the  Green  by  the  spring,  together  with  a  parcel 
of  marsh  land,  both  in  Boston,  (reserving  a  small  parcel  of 
upland)  Winthrop  &  his  wife  to  have  and  use  one  half  of 
the  Green  &  the  buildings  to  be  thereon  erected,  for  their 
lives,  and  the  survivor,  but  not  to  let  or  dispose  of  it,  or  any 
part  of  it,  to  any  other";3  Nov.  13,  1647,  "  to  his  son 
Deane  Winthrop,  his  farm  of  200  acres,  more  or  less,  at 
Pullen  point,"4 
By  these  conveyances  the  Governor,  after  providing  for  the 
payment  of  his  debts,  endeavored  to  carry  out  the  provisions 
of  his  will  of  1639,  revoked  in  consequence  of  Luxford's  defal- 
cations. In  
that  revocation  he  speaks  of  having  been  forced 
to  sell  some  of  his  lands  ;  and  by  comparing  its  date,  June  25, 
1641,  with  the  dates  of  the  conveyances  given  above,  we  find 
that  the  only  one  then  sold,  so  far  as  the  record  informs  us, 
was  that  of  Prudence  Island,  August,  1640.  But  the  record 
is  incomplete,  as  will  now  appear. 
Among  the  "  Great  Allottments  at  Rumney  Marsh,"  now 
Revere,  made  by  the  town  of  Boston,  Jan.  8,  1638,5  was  one  to 
4i  
Mr.  Henry  Vane,  Esq.,  two  hundred  acres:  bounded  on  the 
South  with  Mr.  Richard  Bellingham  ;  on  the  West  with 
Charlestowne  [now  Everett]  ;  on  the  North  with  Mr.  Win- 
thropp  ;   and  on  the  East  with  the  highway  there." 
The  next  was  to  "Mr.  John  Winthropp,  the  Elder,  a  hun- 
dred and  fiftie  acres  ;  bounded  on  the  South  with  Mr.  Vane  ; 
on  the  West  with  Charlestowne  ;  on  the  North  with  Mr.  New- 
gate and  James  Penn,  and  on  the  East  with  the  highway." 
Then  follow  similar  allotments  to  John  Sanford,  John 
Coggeshall,  William  Brenton,  who  were  afterwards  governors 
of  Rhode  Island,  Thomas  Matson,  a  militarv  officer,  Robert 
Harding,    John    Odlin,  and  William   Dyer,    the   husband    of 
1  Recorder!  same  day,  Suffolk  Deeds,  vol.  i.  p.  45. 
2  Recorded  same  dav,  Ibid.  p.  45. 
3  Recorded  March  26,  1648,  Ibid.  p.  102. 
4  Recorded  Nov.  16,  1647,  Ibid.  p.  86. 
5  Town  Records,  vol.  i.  p.  21. 
 - 172 - 
1891.]  GOVERNOR    WINTHUOP'S   ESTATE.  137 
the  ill-fated  Mary  Dyer,  all  of  whom  were  Antinomian  fol- 
lowers of  
John  Wheelwright  and  Mrs.  Hutchinson,  and  as 
such  disfranchised,  or  banished  from  the  Colony,  chiefly  during 
the  exciting  session  of  the  General  Court  in  November,  1687. 
This  circumstance,  however,  does  not  appear  in  any  wise  to 
have  affected  the  action  of  the  town,  two  months  later, 
when  these  allotments  were  made  ;  nor  can  I  say  that  they 
had  any  political  significance.  Of  course  the  allottees  re- 
ceived nothing  to  which  they  were  not  legally  entitled  ;  but 
as  is  well  known,  the  strength  of  the  Antinomian  party  was 
in  the  Boston  church,  or,  what  is  the  same  thing,  among  the 
legal  voters  of  the  town,  of  whom  they  probably  constituted 
the  majority  ;  while  their  opponents,  found  chiefly  in  the 
country  towns,  controlled  the  General  Court.  Had  this  state 
of  the  parties  been  reversed,  it  is  not  quite  clear,  judging 
from  some  other  circumstances,  that  the  Antinomians,  who 
had  just  been  banished,  would  have  carried  away  to  Rhode 
Island  titles  to  some  of  the  best  lands    in  Boston. 
The  question  also  arises  why  Yane,  after  only  a  year  of 
stormy  and  not  altogether  useful  service,  should  have  received 
two  hundred  acres  lying  open  to  the  warm  south,  and  Win- 
throp,  after  many  years  of  unparalleled  labor,  only  one  hun- 
dred and  fifty  acres  of  inferior  land  looking  into  the  cold 
north  ;  though,  as  is  stated  in  his  Life,1  there  was  great  dis- 
satisfaction in  
the  Boston  church  with  the  Governor's  vigor- 
ous proceedings  against  the  Antinomians,  I  have  found  no 
reason  for  believing  that  it  was  expressed  by  a  diminution  of 
his  grant.  I  much  prefer  to  believe,  as  the  probabilities  are, 
that  he  was  fairly  accorded  all  that  was  his  due  under  the 
regulations  for  dividing  the  town  lands.  Be  that  as  it  may, 
of  course  it  was  the  irony  of  chance  that  sandwiched  Winthrop 
between  Vane,  whom,  as  a  political  rival  and  supporter  of 
Mrs.  Hutchinson,  he  probably  did  not  greatly  love,  and  a  nest 
of  Antinomians  whom  he  must  have  detested  as  thoroughly 
as  his  loving  nature  would  allow. 
The  allotments  of  Vane  and  Winthrop,  divided  by  an  east 
and  west  line,  included  the  hill  known  in  recent  times  as 
Fenno's  Hill,  and  some  lowland  at  its  southern  foot.  And  had 
Winthrop  and  Vane  visited  the  hill  which  became  theirs,  and 
stood  on  the  line  which  separated  their  estates,  both   could 
i  Vol.  ii.  p.  208. 
 - 173 - 
138  MASSACHUSETTS   HISTORICAL   SOCIETY.  [Dec. 
have  seen,  as  many  people  now  go  to  see,  some  of  the  most 
striking  views  which  the  seaside  about  Boston  affords,  —  the 
magnificent  Lynn  Bay,  with  the  Nahants,  and  a  wide  reach 
of  water  stretching  away  to  the  outer  islands  and  the  south 
shore. 
It  is  not  quite  certain,  though  I  shall  persist  in  believing, 
that  Winthrop  ever  visited  what  in  his  will  he  calls  "  my 
land  beyond  Powderhorne  hill  "  ;  but  Vane  assuredly  did  not, 
since  his  allotment  was  made  only  after  he  had  left  New 
England  forever. 
By  deed  or  deeds  unrecorded,  Vane's  estate  passed  to 
Nicholas  Parker,  who  owned  it  in  1639  ; 1  and  in  1652  it 
became  the  property  of  Aaron  Way  and  William  Ireland, 
in  whose  farmhouse,  which  may  be  still  standing,  Increase 
Mather  took  refuge  when,  hounded  by  Randolph  in  1688,  he 
was  compelled  to  leave  Boston  by  its  side  door,  going  through 
Charlestown  to  the  Vane  farm  ;  and  thence  by  Hog  Island 
to  Pulling  Point,  off  which  lay  the  ship  "  President,"  which 
took  him  to  England  on  behalf  of  the  Colony. 
That  all  the  lenticular  hills  in  the  Boston  Basin  were  once 
covered  with  forests  may,  aside  from  traditions  to  that  effect, 
perhaps  be  fairly  inferred  from  the  reservation  of  wood  and 
timber  except  for  domestic  purposes,  found  in  a  lease  in  1667 
by  Governor  Bellingham  of  a  part  of  Powderhorn  Hill.  For 
more  than  two  hundred  and  fifty  years  Winthrop's  allotment 
has  been  farming  or  grazing  land,  and  so  far  as  I  have  ob- 
served, is  
still  unoccupied  by  buildings.  Within  a  year  after 
its  grant  it  became  part  of  the  u  Great  Newgate  Farm."  And 
so,  somewhat  earlier,  did  the  "  nyne  and  forty  acres  "  allotted 
to  Jose  Glover,  the  English  rector  who  made  a  contract  with 
Stephen  Day  of  Cambridge,  England,  to  come  over  and  set  up 
a  printing-press.  Glover  died  on  the  passage,  and  his  widow 
married  Henry  Dunster,  the  first  president  of  the  College,  and 
one  of  his  daughters  Deane  Winthrop,  the  Governor's  son.    By 
1  In  Lechford's  Note-Book,  page  [60],  is  the  following  :  "Copie  of  a  grant  of 
Powderhorne  Hill  by  Henry  Vane  Esqr  to  William  Brampton  gent.  Dated  2 
[sic]  1638.  [6  d.]"  In  1638  Vane  was  in  England,  and  there  doubtless  the  grant 
was  drawn  and  executed.  Vane  owned  no  part  of  Powderhorn  Hill,  which  from 
1635  to  1672  belonged  to  Governor  Bellingham's  estate.  Vane's  allotment  bounded 
it  on  the  north.  The  error  of  description  was  perhaps  Vane's,  and  by  him  com- 
municated to  
his  English  scrivener.  Lechford,  who  sometimes  acted  for  Governor 
Bellingham,  was  acquainted  with  his  estates. 
 - 174 - 
 - 175 - 
138  MASSACHUSETTS   HISTORICAL   SOCIETY.  [Dec. 
have  seen,  as  many  people  now  go  to  see,  some  of  the  most 
striking  views  which  the  seaside  about  Boston  affords,  —  the 
magnificent  Lynn  Bay,  with  the  Nahants,  and  a  wide  reach 
of  water  stretching  away  to  the  outer  islands  and  the  south 
shore. 
It  is  not  quite  certain,  though  I  shall  persist  in  believing, 
that  Winthrop  ever  visited  what  in  his  will  he  calls  "  m}^ 
land  beyond  Powderhorne  hill  "  ;  but  Vane  assuredly  did  not, 
since  his  allotment  was  made  only  after  he  had  left  New 
England  forever. 
By  deed  or  deeds  unrecorded,  Vane's  estate  passed  to 
Nicholas  Parker,  who  owned  it  in  1639  ; 1  and  in  1652  it 
became  the  property  of  Aaron  Way  and  William  Ireland, 
in  whose  farmhouse,  which  may  be  still  standing,  Increase 
Mather  took  refuge  when,  hounded  by  Randolph  in  1688,  he 
was  compelled  to  leave  Boston  by  its  side  door,  going  through 
Charlestown  to  the  Vane  farm  ;  and  thence  by  Hog  Island 
to  Pulling  Point,  off  which  lay  the  ship  "  President,"  which 
took  him  to  England  on  behalf  of  the  Colony. 
That  all  the  lenticular  hills  in  the  Boston  Basin  were  once 
covered  with  forests  may,  aside  from  traditions  to  that  effect, 
perhaps  be  fairly  inferred  from  the  reservation  of  wood  and 
timber  except  for  domestic  purposes,  found  in  a  lease  in  1667 
by  Governor  Bellingham  of  a  part  of  Powderhorn  Hill.  For 
more  than  two  hundred  and  fifty  years  Winthrop's  allotment 
has  been  farming  or  grazing  land,  and  so  far  as  I  have  ob- 
served, is  
still  unoccupied  by  buildings.  Within  a  year  after 
its  grant  it  became  part  of  the  u  Great  Newgate  Farm."  And 
so,  somewhat  earlier,  did  the  "  nyne  and  forty  acres  "  allotted 
to  Jose  Glover,  the  English  rector  who  made  a  contract  with 
Stephen  Day  of  Cambridge,  England,  to  come  over  and  set  up 
a  printing-press.  Glover  died  on  the  passage,  and  his  widow 
married  Henry  Dunster,  the  first  president  of  the  College,  and 
one  of  his  daughters  Deane  Winthrop,  the  Governor's  son.    By 
1  In  Lechford's  Note-Book,  page  [60],  is  the  following  :  "Copie  of  a  grant  of 
Powderhorne  Hill  by  Henry  Vane  Esqr  to  William  Brampton  gent.  Dated  2 
[sic]  1638.  [6  d.]"  In  1638  Vane  was  in  England,  and  there  doubtless  the  grant 
was  drawn  and  executed.  Vane  owned  no  part  of  Powderhorn  Hill,  which  from 
1635  to  1672  belonged  to  Governor  Bellingham's  estate.  Vane's  allotment  bounded 
it  on  the  north.  The  error  of  description  was  perhaps  Vane's,  and  by  him  com- 
municated to  
his  English  scrivener.  Lechford,  who  sometimes  acted  for  Governor 
Bellingham,  was  acquainted  with  his  estates. 
 - 176 - 
vMlo 
JlOteC'  citt^tiyj^tfixvfi^  fyfijLfrliSkfaytfZi  &4*™£y?  g 
**/&  ^ty^^ft  W/-PW^V  o^  ^L  jggt^l  «£&*  1;,,^  
^^  ^hiL^U^/f,  *.  
$*«= 
-^i«8,  +*yl&»JLg-  dWr  frnSh,®,  ^Hh  fifty  o*J&  £s>&';«As>  n-  &$>,  cLibntr^c   h^h^l^f^^ 
 - 177 - 
/iliHifbftvov*    oft   
<^fi>$L,Ux 
<**»>  (let  kL*yigjBnk& 
fjufof o/i  
Lnrf  40&M    *&>* 
entfr^i 
 - 178 - 
1891.]  GOVERNOR   WTNTHROP'S  ESTATE.  139 
the  Glover  purchase  the  Newgate  farm,  situated  in  the  interior 
among  the  hills,  was  brought  down  to  tide-water,  near  which 
John  Newgate's  venerable  mansion  house  is  now  standing. 
Neither  the  Winthrop  deed  nor  that  of  Glover's  widow  has 
ever  been  recorded,  though  both  are  extant,  and  in  the  pos- 
session of  
our  associate  William  W.  Greenough,  Esq.  The 
former,  a  fac-simile  of  which  accompanies  this  paper,  reads 
as  follows  ;  —  . 
Knowe  All  men  by  these  presents  that  I  John  Winthrop  Esqr  Gov- 
ernor  of  the  Jurisdiction  of  the  Mattachusetts  Bay  in  New  England  for 
fower  score  pounds  of  lawfull  money  of  England  to  me  in  hand  payd 
by  John  Newgate  of  Boston  in  New  England  Feltmaker  Doe  hereby 
graunt  bargain  and  sell  unto  the  said  John  Newgate  All  that  my  Lott 
of  upland  lying  neare  Rumney  marsh  in  New  England  conteyning  One 
hundred  and  Fifty  acres  be  it  more  or  lesse,  abutting  upon  the  highway 
there  leading  to  Divers  mens  lotts  on  the  East,  and  upon  the  lands  per- 
teyning  to  Charlestowne  towards  the  west,  and  the  Lands  now  of  Nich- 
olas Parker  sometimes  Mr  Vanes  towards  the  south,  and  partly  upon 
the  lands  of  James  Pen  and  partly  upon  the  lands  of  the  said  John 
Newgate  on  the  north  parte,  wth  the  appurtenances.  To  have  and  to 
hold  the  said  Lott  wth  all  the  appurtenances  unto  the  said  John  New- 
gate his  heires  and  Assignes  for  ever.  In  witnesse  whereof  I  have 
hereunto  sett  my  hand  and  seale  the  Eightteenth  Day  of  the  tenth 
moneth  in  the  yeare  of  our  Lord  One  thousand  six  hundred  thirty  and 
nyne  and  in  the  Fifteenth  yeare  of  the  Raigne  of  our  Soveraigne  Lord 
Charles  now  King  of  England  eca 
Jo:  winthrop: 
Signed  sealed  and  Delivered 
in  the  presence  of  : 
Stephen  Winthrop 
et  mei  Tho  :  
Lechford  scriptoris  hujus 
It  was  written  in  the  neat  hand  of  Thomas  Lechford,  author 
of  "  Plain  Dealing  "  and  the  Note-Book,  and  signed  by  him 
and  Stephen  Winthrop  as  witnesses.  It  bears  date  Dec.  18, 
1639,  fifteen  days  after  the  Governor's  misfortune  was  bruited 
abroad,  and  still  longer  after  he  found  himself  ruined.  For 
the  paltry  sum  of  fourscore  pounds  Winthrop  was  forced  to 
sell  to  John  Newgate  the  hundred  and  fifty  acres  of  land  which 
a  little  less  than  a  year  before  he  had  received  from  the  town 
of  Boston.  A  comparison  of  dates  leaves  little  or  no  doubt 
that  the  estate   mentioned  in  the  unexecuted  instrument  of 
 - 179 - 
140  MASSACHUSETTS   HISTORICAL   SOCIETY.  [Dec. 
1639  as  "  my  land  beyond  Powderhorne  Hill,"  was  "  some  of 
my  land  "  which  he  tells  us,  in  the  writing  of  1641,  he  had 
been  obliged  to  sell  in  the  vain  effort  to  retrieve  the  disaster 
brought  upon  him  by  his  faithless  bailiff.  It  was  merely  a 
drop  out  of  the  bucket  of  the  Luxford  debts.  He  had  lost 
everything  save  honor. 
Winthrop's  allotment  is  in  plain  sight  from  my  own  house  ; 
and  in  the  last  thirty  years  I  have  often  climbed  its  rounded 
heights,  and  never,  I  think,  without  consciousness  that  it  was 
once  Winthrop's  ;  
but  not  until  within  a  few  months  have  I 
known  that  it  was  in  any  way  associated  with  so  pathetic  an 
incident  in  the  life  of  one  who  by  great  services  and  high 
character  gained  the  esteem  and  love  of  his  contemporaries, 
and  has  since  taken  his  place  among  the  founders  of  states. 
NOTE. 
The  only  document  in  the  Probate  Office  which  relates  to  the  adminis- 
tration of  
Winthrop's  estate  is  an  inventory.  This  Savage  had  seen,  and 
has  given  the  footing  of  values  :  £103.  10.  11.  (Savage's  Winthrop,  vol.  ii. 
p.  441  note.)  This  interesting  document,  nowhere  printed  so  far  as  I  have 
noticed,  answers  a  question  often  asked,  —  whether  Winthrop  executed  a 
will  after  June  25,  1641,  now  lost  like  many  others,  or  died  intestate.  A 
rather  obscurely  written  entry  on  the  back  of  this  inventory  answers  the 
question. 
An  Inventory  of  the  Goods  S?  Chatties  of  John  Winthrop  Esq* :  late 
Governor  of  the  Massachusetts  deceased  taken  by  James  Johnson  fy 
William  Aspinwall  the  17'?   of  the  2?    mo.  1649.                -ti      s.      d 
Imprimis  in  the  garret  over  the  parlor  in  hemp  &  tow    .     .     .  00.  15.  00 
It.  a  ball  of  haire  twine                                                                             00.  03.  00 
It.  drumme  heades                                                                                       00.  10.  00 
It.  2  paire  andyrons                                                                               01.  10.  00 
It.  i  
musket  &  bandil™  i  french  carbine,  i  pistol         01.  04.  00 
It.  i  brasse  kettle                                                                                                       01.  10.  00 
It.  3.  truncks.  4  chests.  2  chaires          01.  05.  00 
It.  in  buckles  &  teretts                                                                                              00.  05.  00 
It.  3  smale  measures  of  tin,  &  wire          00.  05.  00 
It.  2  lether  bottles  &  a  hatcase.  3  joyners  saw  plates.  2  sitting 
wheeles.  &  broken  brasse         00.  09.  00 
It.  3  cases  for  bottles                                                                                              00.  06.  00 
It.  a  little  trunck  wth  fish  hookes          00.  04.  00 
It.  20  tin  plates.  &  a  box  wth  some  fyles  &c    00.  17.  00 
It.  a  pipe  of  yron  &  a  pestle        00.  12.  06 
It.  in  smale  peeces  of  yron  ware           01.  07.  00 
 - 180 - 
1891.]                                            INVENTORY.  141 
•ft      s.       d 
It.  2  sea  horse  pizels  1  pipe  copp.  ii  warming  pans     .     .     .     .  00.  08.  00 
It.  a  turne  for  silk,  &  caliver  moulds        01.  00.  00 
It.  a  wire  search,  &  yron  chaines          00.  05.  00 
It.  i.  yron  pot  &  2  coops  drawes                                                              00.  05.  00 
It.  7  pewter  dishes.  10  plates.  &  5  smale  dishes     01.  12.  00 
It.  a  stewpan.  a  smale  ewer,  &  flagon       00.  06.  00 
It.  3  brasse  &  3  pewter  candlesticks          00.  12.  00 
It.  a  chamber  pott,  close  stoole,  &  ladle         00.  02.  06 
It.  a  brass  lamp.  3  braces.  &  yron  pott         00.  12.  00 
It.  ould  armour,  i  
pistol                                                                                          01.  05.  00 
It.  an  yron  dogg.  i  great  dripping  pan.  2  old  swords  ....  00.  16.  06 
It.  in  ould  yron  &  an  yron  chaine         00.  09.  00 
In  the  Garret  over  the  Hall. 
It.  one  ould  carpet,  curtens  &  vallans        00.  14.  00 
It.  6  cushions,  i  brush.  2  long  cushion  cloths           00.  15.  08 
It.  another  ould  carpet                                                                                   00.  10.  00 
Over  the  Porch. 
It.  a  bed  &  bedsteed.  bolster  &  ould  tapestry  covering     ...  02.  00.  00 
In  the  Hall  Chamber. 
It.  one  fether  bed,  bolster,  coverlet  &  two  blankets     ....  02.  06.  00 
It.  3  stooles  &  one  rugg                                                                            00.  12.  06 
In  the  Porch  Chamber. 
It.  a  fether  bed,  bolster,  yrish  rugg.  bedsted        03.  00.  00 
It.  an  ould  table,  smale  cob  yrons.  3  window  curteines  ...  00.  06.  03 
more  in  the  Hall  Chamber. 
It.  onecloake                                                                                        01.10.00 
It.  2  sattin  doublets                                                                                       02.  00.  00 
It.  cloth  of  gould  scarfe  &  2  belts       00.  18.  00 
It.  one  ould  black  suite.  2  cloakes       03.  00.  00 
It.  remnant  of  cloth,  ould  silk  stockings  &  garters      .     .     .     .  00.11.00 
It.  tapestry  covering  &  7y.ds  dornicks        02.  00.  00 
It.  an  old  bever                                                                                                 00.  05.  00 
In  the  Parlour  Chamber. 
pkins.    i   doz   diaper,  i   doz  holland. 
It.  2   chaires.   i   doz   n 
1   doz  course,  i   old  table  cloth,  a   cupboard  cloth,   & 
another  table  cloth          
It.  diap  table  cloths  &  ii  plaine  table  cloths  . 
It.  i  
pr  of  sheetes.  pillow  beere      
It.  18  bands.  14  ruffes.  5  capps.  3.  shirts 
It.  i  
cabinet,  1  doz  chalk  lines  &  mackrel  line 
02.  10. 
02.  17. 
01.  01. 
01.  17. 
00.  12. 
00 
06 
00 
00 
00 
In  the  Staire  Way. 
It.  2  old  shirts.  6  p1:  course  sheets.  15  table  napkins,  2  pillow 
beeres.  6  course  table  cloths                                                                          02.  05.  06 
It.  ould  cloths                                                                                                            00.  11.  00 
 - 181 - 
142                   MASSACHUSETTS   HISTORICAL   SOCIETY.  [Dec. 
In  the  Parlour.  -H      s.     d 
It.  i  
do wne  bed,  bolsters,  pillow  &  coverlet  .     .     .     .     .     .     .  05.  00.  00 
It.  i  
pr  worsted  stock  :&  breeches  serge       01.  01.  00 
It.  ould  stuf  breeches,  i  
pr  stockings  cloth,  cloth  coate     .     .     .  02.  01.  00 
It.  3.  pr  glovs,  i  serg  De  boise  gowne     03.  07.  06 
It.  i  cloth  suite  &  cloake.  a  wastcoate  &  another  cloth  suite      .  06.  04.  00 
It.  2  trundle  bedsteds  &  one  standing        00.  12.  00 
It.  ould  stuff  coate.  i  
velvet  capp.  2  pr  ould  stock.       ....  00.  09.  00 
It.  2  chests.  &  one  pr  silk  garters       00.  16    00 
70.  08.  05 
In  the  Hall.                                             ■ii      shs     d 
It.  one  cloth  suite,  cloake  &  wastcoate         00.  12.  00 
It.  one  scarlet  cap.  i  
sattin  cap                                                                   00.  10.  00 
It.  a  straineing  cloth  &  2  ould  pr  stockings      00.  04.  08 
It.  an  old  cloak  &  coate                                                                                      01.  00.  00 
It.  a  table  &  carpett  &  ould  bever  in  the  plor        01.  10.  00 
It.  an  ould  case  for  bottles  in  the  parlor  .      .                   00.  01.  06 
It.  a  round  white  boxe  &  pr  of  snuffers        00.  01.  04 
It.  6  chaires  &  a  cupboard  in  the  hall           01.  15.  00 
In  the  Entry. 
It.  a  saw  &  a  harquebuz                                                                       00.  10.  00 
It.  8  pewter  dishes                                                                                               01.  00.  00 
In  the  Kitchin. 
Old  pewter  in  the  kitchin                                                                               02.  10.  00 
It.  4  brasse  potts.  2  posuets.  1  skellet      03.  00.  00 
It.  i  copper  kettle.  &  brasse  pan         01.  15.  00 
It.  i  brasse  kettle  &  posuett                                                                         01.  05.  00 
It.  pestle  morter  &  2  pewter  candlesticks           00.  06.  00 
It.  2  pr  of  tramels  &  yron  barr                                                                     00.  06.  00 
It.  i  sraale  kettle  &  3  spitts                                                                           ■                    .  00.  07.  00 
It.  i  
table.  2  chaires  &  2  stooles           00.  05.  06 
In  the  Cellar. 
It.  in  lumber  &  a  gridyron                                                                         00.  14.  06 
It.  a  stoole  pan.  a  pr  of  slings.  &  4  buffet  stooles        00.  08.  00 
It.  a  waterpot,  kneading  trough,  soape         00.  06.  06 
It.  bottom  of  a  still            ,                      00.  01.  00 
It.  a  satinisko  coate  &  an  ould  casket     02,  00.  00 
It.  2'e-  of  boards  &  a  black  [  
]hoate         01.  00.  00 
In  the  Study. 
It.  2.  -€.  weight  of  leade.  2  axes  2  adds        01.  17.  04 
It.  ould  yron.  crosbow  lots.  13  quire  pap     00.  12.  04 
It.  ould  hudd  &  [illegible]                                                                                                   00.  02.  00 
It.  3  siren  ges.  2  trepans.  2  pr  gould  wtB          00.  15.  00 
It.  a  brasil  rod  garnisht  wth  silver      00.  10.  00 
It.  a  box  wth  needles,  awles,  brasse  buttons     00.  05.  00 
It.  carbin  &  bandilers,  i  pr  smale  scales.  16  weigh18     ....  00.  06.  00 
7  yron  hasps,  great  bullet  mould.  6  fyles           00.  03.  06 
 - 182 - 
1891.]                                                 INVENTORY. 
It.  6  chesils.  one  vice,  hamer,  sheers,  some  plate 
It.  3  awles.  one  cupbord  locke.  smale  bolt,  keyes 
It.  an  ould  knife,  brasse  pistoll  &  grafting  saw 
It.  a  punch.  &  leade  flagon.  &  yron  met.  pan.     . 
It.  2  brest  wimbles.  &  a  pound  of  Steele   .     .     . 
It.  i-€.  w*  of  smale  shott.  &  a  kettle  .... 
It.  i  
ould  hatt.  3  smale  stone  bottles    .... 
It.  6  pr  spectacles,  glue,  i  pr  shooes       .     .     . 
It.  a  tufted  velvet  jerkin  &  another  velvet  jerk 
It.  4  pr  of  wash  stockings.  3  ynckhornes    .     . 
It.  6  pr  gloves,  i  
standish.  points,  twine 
It.  gartering,  wax  candles.  2  pr  oyle  stockings 
It.  2  truncks  &  a  red  skin.  &  2  pound  twine   . 
It.  i  pr  of  shooes.  pint  pot.  yron  square,  reap  hooke 
It.  i  seale  skin,  3  pr  old  bootes.  2  ould  hatts     
It.  i  pr  compas,  pinchers.  2  pr  of  [  
]hars.  3  smale  bitts,  &  a 
spreader 
•H      ski 143d  
00.  05.  00 
00.  02.  00 
00.  04.  06 
00.  07.  02 
00.  01.  06 
01.  08.  00 
00.  05.  00 
00.  05.  10 
01.  15.  00 
00.  03.  09 
00.  11.  05 
00.  07.  02 
00.  08.  06 
00.  04.  06 
00.  10.  00 
00.  03.  00 
Sum  tot 
33.  02.  06 
70.  08.  05 
103.  10.  11 
William  Aspinwall. 
James  Johnson. 
Indorsed  :  Inventorie  Mr  Gou  Winthrop. 
Mr  Winthrops  Inventory. 
M"  Martha  Winthropp  &  Mr  Adam  Winthropp  granted  administration 
to  pay  so  farr  as  the  estate  will  go  dated  the  9th  of  the  3d  m°  1649  by 
the  Cort  of  magistrats 
Encrease  Nowell,  secret. 
A  new  serial,  containing  the  record  of  the  meetings  in 
October  and  November,  was  ready  for  delivery  at  this 
meeting. 
 - 183 - 
144  MASSACHUSETTS   HISTORICAL   SOCIETY.  [Jan. 
JANUARY   MEETING,  1892. 
The  stated  meeting  was  held  on  Thursday,  the  14th  in- 
stant, at  
three  o'clock,  p.  m.  ;  the  President,  Dr.  George  E. 
Ellis,  in  the  chair. 
After  the  reading  of  the  record  of  the  last  meeting  and  of 
the  list  of  donors  to  the  Library,  Dr.  Samuel  A.  Green,  in 
presenting  a  copy  of  an  old  journal,  made  the  following 
remarks  :  — 
Among  the  manuscript  volumes  belonging  to  the  Historical 
Society  is  a  diary  of  Lawrence  Hammond,  of  Charlestown, 
kept  two  hundred  years  ago,  which  wa^s  given  on  March  11, 
1858,  by  Miss  Elizabeth  Belknap,  together  with  other  books 
and  manuscripts  once  owned  by  her  father,  the  Rev.  Dr. 
Jeremy  Belknap.  The  journal  consists  of  forty-three  closely 
written  pages,  —  though  not  always  in  regular  sequence  as  to 
dates,  —  besides  some  blank  ones,  and  was  unbound  when  it 
came  into  the  possession  of  the  Society.  It  has  since  been 
bound,  however  ;  and  in  the  copy  now  presented  for  the  Pro- 
ceedings nothing  is  omitted,  with  the  exception  of  a  few  pages 
on  ancient  history  and  King  Henry  VIIL,  though  no  attempt 
has  been  made  to  arrange  the  entries  in  chronological  order. 
A  minute  scrutiny  of  the  folds  of  the  paper  comprising  the 
volume  seems  to  show  that  once,  before  it  came  here,  there 
were  more  leaves  in  the  book  than  there  are  now,  and  perhaps 
in  tearing  off  the  missing  portion,  presumably  for  the  most 
part  blank,  in  order  to  use  the  paper,  some  of  the  writing 
was  lost. 
At  different  periods  this  diary  has  been  consulted  by  several 
historians,  who  refer  to  it  in  their  pages.  Thomas  Prince,  in 
the  Preface  to  his  Annals  (page  vii),  mentions  it  as  "An 
Original  Journal  of  the  late  Capt.  Lawrence  Hammond  of 
Charlestown  and  Boston,  from  1677  to  1694,  inclusively  "  ;  and 
in  a  note  written  by  him  on  a  letter  from  Thomas  Hinckley 
to  Isaac  Foster,  he  refers  to  certain  entries  in  the  journal  not 
now  found  there.  (See  Collections,  4th  series,  V.  13.)  Dr. 
Jeremy  Belknap,  in  his   History  of  New  Hampshire  (I.  151, 
 - 184 - 
1892.J  DIARY    OF   LAWRENCE   HAMMOND.  145 
note),  speaks  of  it  as  "  a  MS  journal  found  in  Prince's  collec- 
tion, and  supposed  to  have  been  written  by  Captain  Lawrence 
Hammond  of  Charlestown  "   ;  and  uses  it  as  authority  for 
certain  statements  relative  to  an  attack  near  Dover  by  the 
Mohawk  Indians  (I.  153),  as  well  as  for  statements  relative  to 
the  appointment  of  a  commission  to  make  a  treaty  of  peace 
with  the  Indians  (I. 158),  —  whereas  neither  of  these  events 
is  even  alluded  to  in  the  manuscript  volume.  This  com- 
parison shows  that  in  Prince's  day  the  journal  extended  over 
the  same  period  of  time  as  it  covers  now;  and,  furthermore, 
that  then,  as  well  as  in  Dr.  Belknap's  day,  it  contained  more 
entries  than  it  has  now.  These  differences  may  be  explained, 
perhaps,  by  the  absence  of  leaves  in  certain  folds  of  the  book 
that  I  have  already  noted.  All  the  missing  entries  occur 
within  a  period  of  less  than  thirteen  months,  and  probably 
filled  only  a  few  pages  of  the  diary.  From  these  omissions 
our  late  associate,  Charles  W.  Tuttle,  Esq.,  was  led  to  infer 
that  once  there  were  two  separate  and  distinct  journals  kept 
by  the  writer.  See  his  paper  in  the  Proceedings  (XIII.  314) 
of  this  Society,  which  was  presented  at  the  meeting  held  on 
June  11,  18T4. 
Captain  Hammond  was  made  a  freeman  of  the  Colony  on 
May  23,  1666,  and  for  several  years  was  chosen  a  Deputy  to 
the  General  Court  from  Charlestown.  In  1686  and  several 
following  years  he  was  the  Recorder  of  Middlesex  County, 
whose  duties  corresponded  very  nearly  to  those  of  the  present 
Registers  of  Deeds  and  Probate  combined.  He  took  an  active 
interest  in  military  matters,  and  was  a  Lieutenant  and  the 
Captain  of  a  foot  company  in  Charlestown.  His  death  took 
place  in  Boston,  on  July  29,  1699. 
1687/8 
March  9*  The  Disease  of  ye  meazles  hath  prevailed  exceedingly  in 
this  land,  it  began  in  Boston  in  ye  summer  &  spread  since  into  all  parts 
of  ye  Country,  few  have  dyed  thereof. 
It  began  in  our  Towne  ye  begining  of  Winter  &  hath  gone  almost 
through  every  family. 
Franc  Hamond  fell  sick  wth  it  about  a  month  agoe.  he  kept  at 
Widow  Peachees. 
Betty  Hammond  soone  after  him.  Wm  Gerish  at  Boston  about  a 
month  agoe 
,.     .  Abigail  Hammond  at  Salem  about  ye  same  time,  or  before. 
Parson  Gerish  in  my  family  about  ye  22?  of  february. 
19 
 - 185 - 
146  MASSACHUSETTS   HISTORICAL   SOCIETY.  [Jan. 
Betty  Gerish       ) 
Bethia  Gerish     >•  
March  ye  71?1  in  our  family,  are  now  very  ill. 
Little  Laurence  ) 
12  All  well  recovered  through  Gods  mercy.  Our  Maid  Tryal  sick 
also  &  recovered. 
This  day  we  began  to  remove  our  Goods  to  Mr.s  Tucks  house  having 
hyred  ye  southerly  end  for  a  Lease  of  7  yeares,  to  pay  £5.0.0  p  annum. 
30  Fra:  Hammond  shipt  on  board  Mr  Shrimptons  barque,  W1? 
Everton  Mr  bound  for  ye  Madera. 
April  1  Skipper  [William]  Hurry  made  his  first  Voyage  for  this 
yeare  fro.  Pascataq3  [Portsmouth,  N.  H.]  loaden  wth  boards  &c 
3  This  day,  I  deliured  ye  key  of  Dr  Chickerings  house  to  Mrs  [Han- 
nah] Hunting,  wife  of  Cap*  Sam :  
Hunting,  who  received  ye  same  of  me. 
B!"  Jos.  Gerish  carryed  home  his  Daughter  Betty  from  our  house  this  day. 
6  I  recd  of  Mr.  Jn°  Parker  of  Redding  for  acco*  of  Tho.  Tayler  senr  of 
s?  Towne  34/s  for  Costs  of  Court  &  50/s.  in  full  of  all  accompts. 
23  Munday.     Training  day.     We  Examin'd  Armes   &  Ammunitio 
I  dismissed  Samuel  Kettle  from  being  Drummer  &  Sergeant  Rich^ 
T    .  .  Lowden  from  being  Serg*  of  ye  Company,  at  both  their  re- 
quests I;   made  Samuel  Kettle  youngest  Serg!  &  Nathaniel 
Kettle  Drummer  of  ye  Company. 
This  day  came  into  our  family  Elizabeth  Nevenson,  daughter  of 
Mr  Jn°  Nevinson  &  Elizabeth  his  wife,  who  wilbe  13  yeares  of  age  ye 
22d  day  of  October  next  :  The  verbal  Coven*  betweene  my 
Nevmson     w^e  *  ^  Nevenson  lsi  tnat  sne  ve  s*  Elizabeth  shall  dwell 
with  my  wife  as  a  serv1  six  yeares,  to  be  taught,  instructed 
&  provided  for  as  shalbe  meet,  &  y*  
she  shall  not  depart  from  our  family 
during  ye  said  time  without  my  wives  consent. 
24  I  waited  on  the  Governour  to  Concord,  to  vizit  Major  Bulkeley. 
25  The  Governor  took  his  Journey  to  ye  Eastward,  &  returned  back 
May  28th  following. 
May  3    Was  kept  by  Boston  old  Church,  our  Towne  &  Dorchester 
in  fasting  &  prayer,  more  especially  for  raine,  it  having  been  an  exceed- 
ing  dry  Spring  &  great  signs  of  a  Drought.     And  God  was 
pleased  to  hear  prayers,  &  to  give  an  answer  in  part  that 
night  in  sending  a  very  refreshing  shower  about  two  houres  long,  &  a 
plentifull  raine  the  begining  of  ye  following  week. 
11    My  wife  &  I  rod  to  Wenham  this  day,  being  fryday,  &  continued 
there  till   Wednesday  following,     from  thence    we  came   to 
Salem  yl  day  &  staid  till  ye  next  ; &  then  came  home. 
25    Major  Peter  Bulkeley  dyed  this  day  &  was  privately  buryed  on 
Maj,  ye  Sabbath  being  ye  27th  day. 
Bulkly's  June  9    My  wife  &  I  rod  to  Concord  to  Visit  Mad.  Bulkley 
death  (being  Saturday)  &  returned  home  on  tuesday  following. 
 - 186 - 
1892.]  DIARY  OF  LAWRENCE  HAMMOND.  147 
This  Evening  Mr  Sampson  Sheafe  was  set  upon  in  Boston  Comon, 
&  knockt  downe  &  robbed  by  two  Ruffins,  One   Hambleton 
wounded?    (lately  a  Lodger  at  his  house)  being  present,  who  it  is  judged 
hyred  them  to  do  it ;  
he  Whistling  wn  he  met  Mf  Sheafe,  these 
fellowes  immediately  fell  upon  him  ;    ye  Ruffins  fled,  Hambledon  in 
Custody 
]1    A  thunder  shower  in  ye  Afternoone,  very  fierce  in  these  two 
.        Townes;  struck  Mr  Sheafe's  house  in  Boston,  split  severall 
nng    timbers  &  shattered  others,  strook  his  wife  on  her  face,  but 
she  recd  no  great  hurt. 
L  10    Major  Humphry  Lustcomb  [Liscom]  of  Boston  dyed  of 
a  feaver. 
13    I  went  to  Boston,  &  paid  Mr  West  46/s.  money,  wch  I 
West  rec?  of  our  County  Treasurer,  for  Acts  by  him  sent  to  this 
county,  wch  was  allowed  in  March  Court. 
glf"  Note  that  ever  since  ye  fast  on  May  3?  much  raine  hath  season- 
ably &  
mercyfully  fallen  ;   so  that  at  this  day  ye  fruits  of  ye  earth  are 
all  in  a  very  flourishing  rate,  praised  be  God ! 
1688/9 
March  7  About  a  fortnight  agoe  two  men  of  Chelmsford,  who  were 
Cousen-Germans,  who  also  marryed  two  sisters,  went  out  w'?  their 
Guns  together  to  kill  Ducks  &c.  ye  one  going  just  before  ye  other,  the  Gun 
in  ye  hand  of  ye  hindmost  man  went  off,  &  shot  ye  foremost  man  in  ye 
back,  wherof  he  presently  Dyed :  &  when  ye  Gun  was  Lookt  upon,  ye 
Cock  was  found  at  halfe  bent,  guarded  w*  ye  Dog  on  ye  outside,  &  the 
Hammer  close  down  upon  the  pan  ;  ye  man  not  touching  ye  Lock  after 
it  fired,  but  threw  ye  gun  down,  &  Ran  to  ye  wounded  man  ;  Noe  man 
knowing  how  ye  powder  sh?  take  fire,  unless  it  were  by  a  spark  of  fire 
from  ye  foremost  mans  tobacco  pipe  (wc.h  he  had  in  his  mouth  when 
shot)  carryed  by  ye  wind  between  ye  Barrel  &  Hammer  of  ye  Gun, 
tho'  no  spark  was  seen  by  either  of  them  ;  the  hindmost  man  had  no 
pipe  lighted  or  fire  about  him  :  A  strange  providence  ! 
Mf  Sam.  Whiting  Minister  of  Billerica  Related  it  to  me  this  day. 
Anno  1688.  In  New  england,  One  J  Brodbent  an  Exciseman  and  a 
Hectoring  Debauchee,  Resid!  in  Boston  (where  too  many  of  the  same 
stamp,  have  lately  multiplyed)  meeting  an  Honest,  Ingenious  Country- 
man upon  the  Road,  enquired  of  him,  what  Newes  Countryman  ?  who 
Replyed,  I  know  none  :  the  other  then  Replyed,  111  tell  you  som  ; 
What  is  it ?  (said  ye  Countryman)  ;  said  the  other,  The  Devil  is  Dead  : 
How  ?  said  ye  Countryman,  I  believe  not  that  ;  
Yes,  said  ye  other,  he 
is  dead  for  certaine  :  Well  then,  said  ye  Countryman,  if  he  be  dead,  he 
hath  left  many  fatherless  Children  in  Boston. 
 - 187 - 
148  MASSACHUSETTS   HISTORICAL   SOCIETY.  [Jan. 
An  Eminent  Deliverance  of  Mr  Jn°.  Hale  Minister  of 
Beverly  fy  his  family  from  Lightning. 
Febr:  19.  168|. 
His  Relation  wherof  is  this.  My  wife,  two  maids  &  two  Children 
were  by  ye  kitchin  fire  ;  myself  with  Deacon  Hill  in  my  study,  &  hear- 
ing ye  
thunder  smart,  were  going  down  to  Comfort  ye  family  below,  & 
as  we  came  to  ye  head  of  ye  Staires  (D.  Hill  part  down)  we  were  both 
struck  wth  Lightning  in  our  right  Armes  &  right  Legs,  yet  neither  of 
us  heard  ye  thunder,  or  saw  ye  Lightning;  He  was  Less  strook,  & 
sooner  got  down  staires  ; I   was  struck  down  upon  my  knees,  by  ye  post 
we  use  to  lay  hands  on,  as  we  goe  up  &  down  staires,  &  unable  to  stirr 
for  som  time  ;  
but  heard  som  of  my  family  crying  out  of  hurt  below  : 
at  last  I  got  down,  my  foot  as  if  it  were  dead,  &  Leg  full  of  paine,  but 
wth  help  got  to  lie  down  on  a  bed  ;  my  Elbow  seemed  out  of  joynt,  & 
Arm  hung  down  like  a  stick,  wth  mch  paine  in  it,  but  my  fingers  seemed 
dead  :  I  have  a  bruise  on  my  face,  but  suppose  it  might  be  wth  my  fall. 
In  less  yn  an  hour,  I  found  life  in  all  my  Limbs,  &  y*  
no  bone  was 
broken  or  out  of  joynt,  unless  som  small  starting  out  of  a  bone  in  my 
wrist  (praised  be  ye  Lord)  I  find  ye  post  I  was  by  shivered  on  3  sides. 
But  to  com  to  ye  Rest  ;  ye  Lightning  came  downe  ye  Chimney,  brake 
out  som  bricks  just  above  ye  mantletree  ;  Hurt  my  wife  &  English 
maid  on  their  heads,  &  ye  Negro  on  her  right  Arm,  yet  all  pretty  well 
againe  (thro'  mercy)  it  bowed  out  two  paines  of  glass  in  ye  kitchin 
but  brake  out  no  glass,  &  on  ye  other  side  ye  house  beat  out  ye  bottom 
of  a  paile,  &  touched  severall  pewter  platters  :  on  ye  top  of  ye  kitchin 
Chimney  it  brake  out  about  20  bricks  ;  &  on  ye  other  side  of  ye  Roof 
made  an  hole  about  8  foot  long,  &  then  beat  out  ye  North  end  of  ye 
kitchin  Chamber  about  8  foot  long  &  3  foot  wide,  &  tore  out  many 
other  boards  at  y*  end.  without  doores  it  killd  me  a  Cow,  &  in  ye 
stable  one  Lamb,  wch  ye  Lord  accepted  of  instead  of  our  Lives.  How 
unsearchable  are  his  wayes  &  paths  past  finding  out  &c.  I  find  no 
mark  on  my  body,  but  a  blue  spot  on  my  heele  a  \  
of  an  Inch  long  & 
J  so  wide,  &  somwhat  sore,  &  one  spot  on  ye  sole  of  my  foot,  but 
not  sore,  taken  out  of  his  own  Letter  sent  to  his  Bro  :  Wilson  in 
Charlestowne. 
A   Remarkable  Experim\   tryed  upon   a 
Deaf  Sf  Dumb  man. 
Wee  pricked  a  knife's  point  (saith  Mr  Morton  in  his  Discourse  of  ye 
sense  of  Hearing)  into  ye  belly  of  an  Harpsicot,  causing  him  to  hold  ye 
haft  in  his  Teeth,  then  two  of  us  severally  played  in  his  sight,  ye  one 
Harmonically  som  Tunes,  ye  other  afterward  struck  a  Confused  Dis- 
cord, clashing  many  of  ye  keyes  at  once  :  ye  poor  man  expressed  won- 
derfull  Joy  at  ye  Harmony,  &  embraced  him  yf  
had  played  it ;  
but 
withall  showed  as  mch  displeasure  &  Contempt  of  him  y*  
had  troubled 
 - 188 - 
1892.]  DIARY  OF   LAWRENCE   HAMMOND.  149 
him  wth  ye  Discord.  Then  blindfold  we  set  him  in  ye  former  posture  ; 
&  he  y*  
before  had  Clashed,  now  play'd  Regularly  ;  &  ye  other  yl  before 
had  made  musick,  now  Jumbled  wth  ye  keyes,  this  we  did  severall 
times,  shifting  hands  as  we  thought  fit;  &  between  every  time  unbound 
his  Eyes.  The  man  still  after  a  musical  playing  shewed  his  kindness 
&  gratitude  to  him  whom  he  had  seen  play,  wn  at  first  it  pleased  him,  & 
so  on  the  contrary.  By  wch  it  appeared  plainly,  y* tho'  he  mistook  ye 
persons,  yet  he  very  well  pceived  ye  sound  &  it's  affections,  &  Distin- 
guished betweene  ye  Harmony  &  ye  Discord,  wth  an  answerable  satisfac- 
tion, or Regret. 
Mr  Morton  gives  this  Instance  to  note  a  probability  y*  
ye  mouth  is 
not  devoid  of  a  power  of  perceiving  sound  ;  &  y*  by  ye  tender  nerves 
of  ye  Teeth.  &c. 
A  Violent  Noyse  may  so  Disorder  the  Brayn,  as  to  render  it  unapt  for 
its  proper  functions,  ever  after. 
An  Instance  wherof,  Mr  Morton  Relates  (in  his  Discourse  of  ye  sense 
of  Hearing)  in  a  Child,  carryed  in  Armes,  but  of  a  quick  apprehension, 
a  Drum  being  beat  close  to  ye  child  suddainly,  as  soon  as  ye  Drum 
began  to  beat,  ye  child  was  Imediately  taken  wth  a  grievous  Convulsion, 
the  Countenance  Distorted,  &  all  understanding  driven  away ; &   so  it  
con- 
tinued for  
w?  it  
was  of  20  yeares  of  age,  he  saw  it  a  Natural  foole ; &   enquir- 
ing ye  
Cause,  his  parents  gave  the  aforesd  beat  of  ye  Drum  as  ye  reason, 
tho.  he  Remembers  not  y*  
ye  hearing  was  therby  much  Impaired. 
1689 
April  18  Since  the  change  of  Government  in  this  Land,  by  ye  Vacat- 
ing our  Chartar,  &  setting  up  a  new  form,  first  by  a  presid1  &  Council, 
wch  was  done  May  13^  1686.  upon  ye  Arrival  of  ye  Rose  frigot,  wherin 
Mf  Edw?  Randolph  brought  a  Comission  for  Mr  Jos.  Dudley,  Presid*  & 
sundry  other  Gentlemen  to  be  of  ye  Council  ;  and  then  by  a  Governour 
&  Council,  upon  the  arrival  of  S*  Edmd.  Andros,  in  the  Kingfisher  on 
ye  18th  day  of  December  Anno  1686.  whose  Comission  from  King 
James  ye  2d.  Constituted  ye  said  Sr  Edmd.  to  be  Cap*  Generall  &  Gov- 
ernor in  
Chiefe  of  his  Majties  Territory  &  Dominion  of  Newengland,  in 
wch  Commission  sundry  persons  were  joyned  in  Comission  wth  him  as 
his  Council  :  After  wch  other  plantations  were  added  to  ye  same  Gov- 
erning as  
Connecticut,  New-york,  East  &  west  Jerzy  &c.  wherby  ye 
Territory  under  ye  same  Governour  was  Extended  to  near  600  miles 
in  length  :  I  say  these  changes  befell  us,  great  &  manyfold  oppressions 
by  fines,  Imprisonm1.8,  illegal  &  arbitrary  prosecutions  of  many  particular 
persons  began  to  grow  upon  us,  with  Excessive  charges  in  all  Lawsuits 
&  other  matters  in  Courts,  as  also  a  claiming  in  ye  name  of  ye  King, 
all  our  Lands,  especially  such  Lands  as  were  not  under  personall  &  par- 
ticular Improvem'8,  &  ye  same  in  part,  (&  more  designed  to  be)  given 
to  such  who  would  petition  &  pay  yearly  acknowledgm*"  &  the  large 
 - 189 - 
150  MASSACHUSETTS   HISTORICAL  SOCIETY.  [Jan. 
fees  stated,  for  ye  same,  besides  many  other  grievances  wc?  no  way  ap- 
peared to  
redress,  but  men  were  made  offenders  for  a  word  &c.  The 
people  in  Boston  &  in  ye  Townes  adjacent  did  this  day  rise  as  one  man, 
&  having  seized  Cap*  George  Commander  of  ye  Rose  &  others  ;  Drums 
were  beat  in  Boston  &  sundry  persons  appearing  form'd  themselves  into 
Companyes  under  ye  Comand  of  such  Leaders  as  were  well  approved 
of  for  ye  Design  in  hand  :  The  Governor  &  severall  others  who  had 
been  his  Creatures,  fled  to  ye  fort,  &  there  stood  upon  their  defence  ; 
above  a  thousand  men  were  soon  in  Armes  in  Boston,  chiefly  of  y* 
Towne,  &  partly  from  Charlestowne,  &  Roxbury  ;  also  six  or  700  men 
marched  down  out  of  Middlesex  to  Charlestown  ye  same  day  under 
ye  Comand  of  Cap4  Nath.  Wade,  &  there  quartered  y4  
night,  ye  Com- 
panies in  
Armes  at  Boston,  Marched  to  ye  fort,  took  ye  lower  fort 
with  ye  great  Artillery  ;  ye  Redcoates  ordered  by  ye  Governo!  to  Issue 
out  of  ye  fort  &  fire  upon  them,  but  being  come  down  ye  Hill  fired  not 
a  gun,  but  ran  back  to  ye  fort  againe  :  Boston  having  taken  y°  lower 
fort  &  great  Guns,  Loaded  them,  &  planted  ym  right  against  ye  fort  ; 
then  Simon  Bradstreet  Esq.  w*  divers,  Gentlemen,  some  of  ye  Council, 
&  others  of  ye  former  Governm*,  formd  yras.  into  a  Council  &  sent  in 
writing  to  ye  Governor  under  their  hands,  their  advice  to  him  to  sur- 
render ye  
Governm1  &  forts,  least  ye  Country  now  up  should  storm 
ye  same,  &  take  it  by  force,  wc.h  would  be  ye  occasion  of  bloodshed,  &c. 
The  Governor.  w*!1  others  at  length  came  down  to  ye  Council,  sitting  in 
ye  Town  house  ; &  after  some  discourse  resignd  all  up 
An  Acco*  of  my  severall  Marriages,  to  whom,  &  ye  time  w?,  &  ye 
time  of  the  deaths  of  such  of  y?  as  God  hath  removed  :  Also  ye  Names 
of  my  children  whom  God  hath  graciously  given  me,  by  whom,  w? 
borne,  &  ye  time  of  ye  decease  of  such  whom  God  hath  bereaved  me  of. 
I  was  marryed  to  Audria  Eaton,  a  Virgin,  in  Charlestowne  in  New 
england  (who  came  ye  yeare  before  from  London)  on  ye  30th 
Audria  day  of  September  1662.  who  dyed  in  child-bed  in  Charles- 
towne on  ye  27'!1  day  of  August  1663. 
I  was    marryed    to  Mr.3   Abigail   Willet,    widow  of  MT.  Jn°  Willet, 
Youngest  Daughf  of  Mr  Edward  Collins  of  Meadford  in  N. 
Abigail        Engiand?  on  ye  12th  day  of  May  1665#  who  Dyed  of  a   Ma_ 
lignant  feaver  on  ye  first  day  of  february  167^  in  ye  morning 
I  was  marryed  in  Charlestowne  to  Mr.8  Margaret  Willoughby,  widow 
of  Francis  Willoughby  Esq.  on  ye  8*!1  day  of  February  167|. 
who  dyed  of  a  feaver  on  ye  2d.  day  of  February  168|. 
I  was  marryed  in  Charlestowne  to  Mrs  Anne  Gerrish,  widow  of  D^ 
W-  Gerrish  on  ye  14th  day  of  January  168|.  whom  God  yet 
is  pleased  to  spare  to  me 
By  my  wife  Audria,  I  had  a   sonne,  named  Francis,  borne  August 
ye  19*  1663.  who  about  ye  age  of  18  yeares  was  bound   to  Mr  Nicho: 
Follet,  Marriner  of  Pascataqua  for  5  yeares  ;  whose  time  being  expired, 
 - 190 - 
1892.]  DIARY   OF   LAWRENCE   HAMMOND.  151 
He  went  to  sea  upon  His  own  Acco',  having  ye  Commendation  of  all 
y*  knew  Him  for  Sobriety  &  good  proficiency  in  ye  Marriner's  Art, 
&  very  hopefull  in  reference  to  true  piety.  The  last  Voyage  He  made 
Francis  was  from  Bostou  m  a  Vessel  of  Colouel  Shrimpton's,  W^ 
Everton  Mr  bound  for  Madera's,  after  their  discharge  from 
y*  
port  they  touched  at  Barmuda,  &  from  thence  home  ; &  on  ye  24th  day 
of  November  1688.  being  come  into  Nantasket  Bay,  betw  :  7  &  8  at 
night,  ye  wind  not  serving  to  com  up,  they  came  to  an  Ankor  ;  my  son 
Francis  was  in  ye  foretop,  furling  ye  foretopsaile,  &  from  thence  fell 
downe,  struck  upon  ye  ship-side,  &  into  ye  Sea,  being  (as  its  thought) 
struck  dead  w'.h  ye  blow,  soon  sunk,  &  was  never  more  seen,  no  boat  nor 
hands  ready  to  save  him. 
By  my  wife  Abigail,  I  [had]  one  son  &  four  Daughters. 
Martha  L  Martha  :  borne  ye  61-*  of  April  1666.  who  dyed  ye  7th  of 
June.  1666. 
Abigail.  2.  Abigail,  borne  ye  27.  of  April  1667.  yet  living. 
John.  3'  
Johnr  borne  ^  V±  
of  
MaF  1669*  who  d?ed  >'C 8  
1669                                                                                          of  SeP* 
Jane  4'  
Jane*  "  
borne  J*  10*  of  August  167°-   wno  dyed  ?*  25 
of  Decbr  1681. 
Elizabeth         5.  Elizabeth,  borne  ye  13^  of  July.  1672.  yet  living. 
By  my  wife  Margaret  I  had  no  Child. 
By  my  present  wife  Anne,  I  had  Laurence,  borne  November  ye  23d. 
-j.  1685.  who  dyed  the  l8.1  day  of  October  1689.  by  bladdr  grown 
in  his  throat,  begun  on  fryday  Sep*  28^  wch  ended  his  life  on 
tuesday  foil,  betw:  7  &  8  at  night,  (a  pleasant  child) 
Francis  Also  Francis,  borne  Sep1  IS*?  about  one  in  ye  morning,  yet 
Living,  tho'  now  ill. 
This  Record  I  have  here  made  this  2d  day  of  Octobr  1689. 
Attested  by  Laur.  Hammond. 
Francis,  my  youngest  sonne,  taken  wth  a  Hoarsnes  in  ye  morning  be- 
fore day, dyed  this  2d  day  of  October  1689.  betweene  8  &  9 
at  night  of  ye  same  distemper  (as  we  Judg)  wherof  his 
brother  Laurence  dyed  ye  night  before.  They  were  both  buryed  in  one 
Grave  October  4th  following.  All  my  3  sonnes  dead  within  ye  Com- 
pass of a  yeare.  Of  eight  Children  wch  God  hath  given  me,  but  two 
Daughters  (Abigail  &  Elizabeth)  are  now  living.  The  Lord  gives,  & 
ye  Lord  takes  ;  blessed  be  ye  name  of  ye  Lord. 
Nov.  1  MrTho:  Fairweather  sailed  for  London,  in  a  New  ship 
built  by  Mr  [Samuel]  Ballat  this  yeare.  Mr  Richd.  Daniel  saild  in 
him      fryday  morning. 
January  30  This  day  my  Daughter  Abigail  was  joyned  in  Marriage 
unto  Luke  Greenough  son  of  Mf  Wm  Greenough  of  Boston,  Ship- 
wright, by  
Mr  Charles  Morton  Minister  at  Charlestowne. 
February  10    This  day  sailed  from  Boston  bound  for  London,  Mr  Bant 
 - 191 - 
152  MASSACHUSETTS   HISTORICAL   SOCIETY.  [Jan. 
&  in  him  Sr  Edmd  Andross,  late  Gov!:  of  Newengland,  Mr.  Jos.  Dudley, 
Mr  Palmer,  Mr  Randolph  M1.  West,  Mr.  Graham  &  others,  who  are  sent 
home  to  ye  King,  as  by  his  Letter  arrived  here  in  November  last. 
Likewise  Mr  Richd  Martin  sailed  ye  same  day,  &  in  him  Dr  Elisha 
Cook  Df  Thomas  Oakes  &  Mr  Icchabod  Wis  wall,  who  are  sent  by  ye 
Convention  to  Implead  ye  aforesd  Gentlemen.  They  Anchored  at  Nan- 
tasket,  ye  wind  coming  Southerly.  Mr  Martin  Anchored  not,  but  saild 
direct  away. 
11  Court  of  Micttt?  holden  in  Charlestown  by  adjourning  Jn° 
Walker  tryed  about  being  ye  father  of  a  Bastard  child,  brought  forth 
by  Mary  Phipps  Solomon  Phipps  Lame  Daughter.  She  lays  it  to  him, 
ye  child  dead.                                           m$ 
February  12  The  Convention  removed  from  Boston  (ye  smallpox 
encreasing  there)  to  Charlestowne  this  day. 
15  Cap*  Bant,  w^  Sr  Edmund  &c  is  said  to  Sail  from  Nantasket 
for  Loudon. 
19  Mr  Rob*  Wallis  of  this  Town,  sailed  for  London,  in  a  Brigau- 
tine,  Mf  Woodgate  saild  in  her. 
John  Rayuer  came  in  from  ye  Bay  of  Campeach,  loaden  w*  logwood. 
21    The  Convention,  adjourned  to 
March  1    Satuday,  Wind  high,  at  W.  fair  &  cold  : 
2.  Stephen  Codman's  child  baptized.     Wind  at  W.  High  &  cold. 
3.  Generall  meeting  of  ye  Inhabitants  of  Charlestowne,  to  choose 
Officers 
Constables  chosen  are  Mf  W^  Welsted  sen!: 
Natha!  Kettle 
Natha!  Davis. 
Joseph  Frost. 
Selectmen  chosen  are  Cap*  Rich*.  Sprague 
Peter  Tuffts 
Richd  Lowden 
Natha1  Rand 
Peter  Fowle 
Sam1  Hunting 
James  Miller. 
Clerk  of  ye  Writts  chosen  is  Laur.  Hammond 
Wind  at  W  N  W.  blew  very  hard  &  cold 
L*  Nickols  \      4    Tuesday,  wind  at  S.  a  fair,  moderate  day. 
brake  his   f     **    
Wedensday,  wind  at  E.,  &   snow:    at  night  wind   at 
leg  )  
N.  W.  &  cleer,  blew  hard 
6     Thursday,  Publ.  Fast.    Wind  at  W.  &  N.  W.  blew  very  hard  all 
day  &  all  night  Extream  Cold  freezing  weather. 
 - 192 - 
1892.]  DIARY   OF   LAWRENCE   HAMMOND.  153 
7  Fryday,  clear  day,  wind  at  N.  W.  blew  very  hard,  Extream  cold  & 
freezing. 
8  Saturday,  Haizy  sky,  wind  at  N.  W.  blew  moderate,  but  exceed- 
ing cold,  som  snow  in  ye  afternoon,  wind  at  S.  W.  in  ye  night  N  W. 
blew  hard  &  Exceeding  cold. 
March  9  Lord's  day,  wind  at  N.  W.  blew  hard  an  Exceeding  cold 
freezing  day.  clear  weathr 
10  Munday,  wind  at  W.  blew  fresh,  Exceeding  cold  morning,  after- 
nooue  more  moderate  :  a  very  sharp,  freezing  night. 
11  Tuesday,  wind  at  W.  a  moderate,  still  day. 
County  Court  sat  by  Adjournm*  at  Charlestowne,  &  allowed  of  ye 
Towne's  choise  of  me  for  Clerk  of  ye  writts. 
12  Wedensday,  wind  at  S.  E.  &  E.  snow  ye  forenoone,  rainey,  misty 
afternoon,  moderate 
13  Thursday,  wind  at  N.  E.  som  raine,  still,  moderate,  cloudy  day. 
14  Fryday,  wind  at  E.  &  snow  afternoone,  cloudy,  still,  moderate 
day. 
15  Saturday,  wind  at  E.  still  cloudy,  morning,  then  snow  &  yn  raine 
,  all  fnit,  in  cypherl  :  
M"  Clutterbuck  arrived  from  ye  Canaries 
Clutterbuck      . \        .  i  J 
with  wine,  yesterday. 
16  Lords  day,  Raine  all  day,  moderate  weather,  wind  at  E.  clear 
at  night  wind  at  W.  Ml  Morton  preached  in  yf  forenoone,  &  Ad- 
ministred  ye  Sacram!  :  this  is  ye  first  time  I  was  at  ye  Sacram*,  since 
my  confiuem1    Young  Mr  Peir point  Afternoon. 
17  Munday,  Wind  at  W.  N.  W.  blew  a  hard  gale  in  ye  forenoon; 
little,  afternoone.     a  calm,  moderate  night. 
18  Tuesday  ;  wind  E.  came  to  S  in  ye  Evening  &  cloudy  ;  
blew 
fresh  in  ye  night. 
19  Wedensday  wind  at  S.  &  raine  till  near  Noon,  y!1  
fair,  wind  at 
S.  W  &  moderate. 
20  Thursday,  a  fair  day,  wind  at  N.  moderate  weather,  wind  came 
to  N.  E.  Major  Appleton  &  L'Stacey  Lodged  our  House  :  ye  Convention 
still  in  Charlestown.  This  day  came  a  post  enforming  y*  yesterday,  ye 
Indians  came  to  Nuchawanick  [Berwick,  Maine]  &  had  don  mc?  spoile. 
21  Fryday,  wind  at  N.  E.  cloudy,  cold  day,  som  raine  in  ye  night. 
Maj.  Apleton  &  His  L*  lodged  againe  at  our  house. 
The  Enemy  at  Nuchawannick  have  burned  about  30  Houses,  & 
Nuchawan-  killd  &  carryd  away  about  80  persons  ;  wherof  about  30 
nock  de-  men.  they  were  set  upon  by  a  parcel  of  English  y*  
came  to 
stroyed  ye  down's  reliefe,  they  fought  till  night  parted  ym  2  of  our 
men  slaine  &  about  7  or  8  much  wounded  :  we  know  not  of  one  Indian 
slaine  :  one  frenchman  taken  prisoner:  ye  Enemy  said  to  be  not  above 
60.     ye  meeting  house  burnt.1 
1  For  other  particulars  of  this  attack,  see  Proceedings,  vol.  xiv.  p.  126. 
20 
 - 193 - 
154  MASSACHUSETTS   HISTORICAL   SOCIETY.  [Jan. 
22  Saturday.  Wind  at  N.  E.  a  cold,  cloudy  day.  Majr  Appleton 
went  home. 
a  man  Yesterday  a  man  fell  out  of  a  shallop  in  ye  river  coming  up 
drownd        i0  tnjs  Town  &  was  drowned,  it  was  Vee's  shallop, 
our  Cow    )      23    Lords  day,  a  cloudy,  moderate  day,  wind  at  S.  at  night, 
Calved       )  
warm,  moist  Aire,  wind  blew  hard  in  ye  night. 
24  Munday,  wind  at  S.  blew  very  hard,  dark  showry  weather; 
wind  at  S  E.  in  Evening  &  mch  raine  till  about  10  at  night; 
25  Tuesday,  wind  at  S.  W.  blew  very  hard,  fair  :  calm  towds  even- 
ing, rain  at  night,  wind  at  N.  E.  My  wife  &  I  went  to  Boston,  visited 
My  Clutterbuck. 
26  Wedensday,  wind  at  N.  E.  &  raine  at  times  till  within  night, 
weather  moderate 
27  Thursday,  wind  at  N.  W.  blew  fresh,  fair,  moderate  weather. 
28  Fryday,  wind  at  N.  E.     Haizy  weather,  moderate. 
March  29    Saturday,  wind  at  E.  &  raine,  moderate  weather. 
30  Lord's  day,  wind  at  S.  W.  a  fair  moderate  day,  Moon  changed. 
31  Munday,  wind  at  S.  E  &  N.  E.  &  calm  at  nigh  [t] , a   
fair  moderate  day. 
All  this  week  to  Saturday,  fair  weather  &  seaturns  every  day,  calm 
nights.  I  went  wtb  my  wife  &  son  &  Daughter  Greenough  to  Winnisimet. 
April  2    Wedensday,  I  planted  my  Rose  pease. 
4    Fryday,  my  wife  &  I  walked  to  Ben  :  
Bowers. 
6  Lords-day,  wind  at  W  &  N.  W.  blew  fresh,  fair,  cool  day.     Mf 
Metcalf         Metcalf  made  his  confession  before  ye  Church  of  ye  sin  of 
.  J  J 
fornication. 
7  Munday,  wind  at  N.  a  fair,  moderate  day,  wind  at  N.  E.  in  ye  night 
Mr  Welsted  in   Gov'  Andrews  Sloop,  sailed  for  London, 
being  sent  by  ye  present  Governm4  on  y?  2  or  3^  instant. 
8  Tuesday,  wind  at  N.  E.  som  snow  in  ye  forenoon,  then  rain  all 
day,  a  storm  of  wind  &  rain  at  night. 
28  Sr  W*s  Phipps  Chiefe  &  about  700  men  in  3  or  4  Vessels  fitted 
as  men  of  Warre  (Cypr:  Southdeck,  who  rec?  a  Ire  of  mart  from  ye 
King  being  one)  saikl,  being  design'd  by  those  now  in  Governm!  ag!* 
ye  french  forts  at  ye  Eastward  to  take  y™ 
May  4    Lords  day,  a  Brave  soaking  Raine. 
From  thence  until  ye  14th  day  dry,  faire,  moderate,  weather. 
14  Raine,  very  refreshing;  wind  at  N.  E.  &  E. 
12    Arrived  from  London  Tho.  Gilbert  in  Mr  Belchar's  ship. 
15  Thursday,  wind  blew  fresh  at  S.  W.  fair,  moderate  weather,  a 
shower. 
17  Saturday,  a  considerable  raine  in  ye  night  preceding  &  this  morn- 
ing, wind  at  E. 
C  This  day  &  yesterday  fatal  for  ye  desolating  of  Casco  by 
Casco     <  ye  Enemy,  as  ye  news  of  it  was  brought  to  us  on  Munday 
(  
night  pticulars  not  known,  all  killd  &  taken. 
 - 194 - 
1892.]  DIARY  OF  LAWRENCE  HAMMOND.  155 
22  Thursday,  News  from  Sr  W1^  Phipps,  ye  forts  [at  Port  Royal] 
surrendered,  much  plunder  taken. 
My  wife  &  I  rod  this  day  to  Wenham,  to  B?  Gerrish's 
28    Wedensday,  we  returned  home,  thro'  Salem,  dined  at  Benj^  Ger- 
rish's &  
thence  home  in  ye  Evening. 
Election  carryed  on  this  day  as  foil.  viz. 
Simon  Bradstreet  Escfe.  Gov!   Tho.  Danforth.  D.  G. 
July  3    Our  Cow  went  to  Ll  Nickol's  pasture  in  ye  Evening  of  this 
day. 
August  3    A  fire  brake  out  in  Boston,  betw:  2  &  3  in  ye  morning,  by 
ye  Millbridge,  w^  consumed  about  30  Buildings,  ye  cause  not 
known,     a  Young  man's  thigh  being  brake,  he  dyed  soon. 
9    The  Fleet,  consisting  of  about  32  Ships  &  Vessels,  wth  about  2200 
_  ,  men,  under  Sf  Wra  Phipps,  General,  bound  to  Canada,  ae3' 
Canada  a  _j         ,;,,..    -^        .  & 
ye  r  rench,  sand  this  Evening. 
14  A  Seizure  was  made  of  Coi.  Potter  &  all  his  Letters,  who  being 
sent  by  Cap1  Nickolson,  Govr  of  Virginia,  hether  by  Land,  was  ready 
to  return  back  to  him,  with  a  great  quantity  of  Letters  to  him  & 
Seizure  others,  wc.h  Ires  so  seized  by  a  Warr*  from  som  in  Boston, 
of  were  opened  &  read  by  ye  Council,  &  som  kept,  &  som  redeliv- 
Letters  ere(j  t0  ye  Messenger,  &  suffered  to  depart  ye  next  day  :  
Som 
have  been  called  to  acco*  for  w*  they  writ,  &  others  expect  ye  like. 
How  congruous  this  is  to  ye  obtaining  their  Charter,  they  have  been 
suing  for,  &  how  acceptable  it  wilbe  to  his  Majfi.e  ye  world  may 
judge. 
Sep*  5  Jos.  Lynde  jun*  saild  for  Barbados  in  a  Ketch,  Wm  Gerish 
sailed  w1?1  him  at  20/s  f  mens. 
16  A  fire  brake  out  in  Boston,  this  night  about  11  of  ye  Clock,  in 
the  house  of  one  Cornish,  &  so  prevaild  y*  5  Houses  were  burnt  by  ye 
South  Meeting-house,  L*  Reynalds  stone  House,  ye  timber  work  all 
consumed,  in  ye  flame  wherof,  ye  Meeting  house  was  several  times 
fired,  but  by  ye  Industry  &  activity  of  Cap*  Cypr:  Southdeck,  &  som 
others,  (thro'  God's  great  mercy)  ye  fire  was  still  put  out,  &  ye  Meeting 
house  preserved,  wch  had  if  fire  prevaild  upon,  ye  whole 
Town,  at  least  to  Leeward,  had  been  endangered,  ye  wind 
blowing  fresh  at  S.  W. 
a  youth  about  12  years  of  age  was  consumed  in  ye  flames  in  the  s? 
Cornish's  House. 
It  is  said,  ye  Man  of  ye  House  himself  had  carelesly  stuck  up  a 
lighted  Candle  ag8t  ye  claboards  within  ye  House,  &  y?  went  forth  to 
an  Alehouse  to  drink,  &  forgetting  his  Candle,  there  staid  till  his 
house  was  on  fire.1 
1  Other  particulars  of  this  fire  are  found  in  the  "  PUBLICK  OCCUR- 
RENCES Both  FOREIGN  and  DOMESTICK.  Boston,  Thursday  Sept.  25th, 
1690,"  the  first  newspaper  ever  printed  on  this  continent.     See  "The  Historical 
 - 195 - 
156  MASSACHUSETTS   HISTORICAL   SOCIETY.  [Jan. 
17  My  Daughter  Abigail  Greenough,  was  delivered  this  morning 
about  3  of  ye  Clock  of  a  Daughter,  y°  her  full  time  not  being  com,  by 
at  least  a  month. 
Nov.  The  first  Vessel  Returned  from  Quebeck,  bring  newes  of 
our  defeat  there,  all  Returning  home,  many  dead  &  more  sick  of  small- 
pox, fevers  &  fluxes,  besides  som  slain  by  ye  Enemy  ;  like  to  be  a 
great  mortality. 
Decern^  1  A  Pink,  wherof  M"  Jos.  Buckly  was  M'  full  Loaden, 
bound  for  Jamaica,  by  carelessnes  of  2  persons  on  board,  was 
fired  &  burnt  to  ye  water,     she  rode  at  Anchor  in  Boston. 
22    The   Green  Dragon  in   Boston,  kept  by  Mother  Wilmot  (now 
Smith)  took  fire  between   12  &  one  this  Morning,  &  burnt 
down,  no  other  House  fired,  no  wind  &  good  help,  &  snow 
upon  y*  Neighbor  Houses,  was  a  means   of  their  prservation.     Very 
little  in  ye  House  saved. 
27    About  2  in  ye  morning  Cap*  Dan.  Turin's  shop  was 
burnt  down  (;  
no  other  mischiefe  y£ I   hear  of)  in  Boston. 
1691 
May  13  Hyred  a  Cow  of  Abran.  Hill,  for  ye  Summer,  from  this  day 
till  7ber  13th  for  20/s.  she  is  put  into  ye  pasture  y*  
was  Lieu*  Nichols, 
to  pay  20/s.  for  Sumering. 
This  Cow  proving  unruly  &  unlucky,  so  as  none  could  milk  her,  was 
returned  to  Hills  ye  same  day. 
14  Agreed  w1.11  Jn°  &  Hannah  Newel  jun'  for  halfe  ye  milk  for  this 
Summer  wc.h  ye  Cow  we  sold  y™  shall  give,  until  ye  season  for  Housing 
corns.     We  paying  for  her  pastorage,  wc.h  is  to  be  20/s  as  abovesaid. 
19  M?  Mary  Trumbal  &  ye  Wife  of  Sam.  Reid,  being  sentenced  at 
an  Adjournm*  of  ye  pretended  Court  in  this  County  on  fryday  15th  in- 
stant to  
pay  a  fine  of  £5.  0.  0.  each,  &  give  bond  of  £20.  0.  0  wth  sure- 
ties for  ye  good  behaviour,  &  not  to  sell  any  more  drink,  were  Ordered 
to  stand  Committed  till  ye  sentence  were  fulfilled  hereupon  Sam.  Goo- 
kin,  ye  pretended  Marshal,  takes  y™  under  his  Custody  &  puts  ym  into 
M  r  
Jackson's  House,  &  there  orders  y™  to  abide  ;  where  they  stayed 
yf  night  &  until  Munday  ye  18th;  but  they  sending  to  ye  Marshal  for  a 
Magazine"  (1.228-231),  August,  1857,  for  a  copy  made  by  me  thirty-five  years 
ago.     The  account  of  the  fire  is  as  follows  : — 
"  Altho'  Boston  did  a  few  weeks  ago,  meet  with  a  Disaster  by  Fire,  which  con- 
sumed about,  twenty  Houses  near  the  Mill-Creek,  j-et  about  midnight,  between  the 
sixteenth  and  seventeenth  of  this  Instant,  another  Fire  broke  forth  near  the  South- 
Meeting-House,  which  consumed  about  five  or  six  houses,  and  had  almost  carried  the 
Meeting-house  itself,  one  of  the  fairest  Edifices  in  the  Country,  if  God  had  not  remark  - 
ablv  assisted  the  Endeavours  of  the  People  to  put  out  the  Fire.  There  were  two  more 
considerable  Circumstances  in  the  Calamities  of  this  Fire,  one  was  that  a  young  man 
belonging  to  the  House  where  the  Fire  began,  unhappily  perished  in  the  Flames;  it 
seems  that  tho'  he  might  sooner  awake  than  some  others  who  did  escape,  yet  he  some 
wav  lost  those  Wits  that  should  have  taught  him  to  help  himself.  Another  was  that  the 
best  furnished  PRINTING  PRESS,  of  those  few  that  we  know  of  in  America  was  lost;  a 
loss  not  presently  to  be  repaired." 
 - 196 - 
1892.]  DIARY  OP  LAWRENCE  HAMMOND.  If,  7 
Coppy  of  their  Mittimus,  he  told  ye  Messenger  he  had  ncne,  but  sup- 
posed ye  
Clerk  had  it ;  
Sam.  Phipps  ye  Clerk  being  spoken  wth,  said, 
he  had  none,  but  he  believ'd  ye  Marshal  had  it,  &  if  he  had  none, 
y?  there  was  none  granted.  These  Women  hereupon  were  advised  to 
return  to  their  families,  for  they  could  not  be  deteined  prisonrs  without 
Mittimus  longer  yn  ye  Court  was  sitting ;  by  colour  of  no  Law  ;  w,h 
Court  ended  on  ye  said  15*  instant  They  accordingly  came  to  their 
Houses  on  Munday. 
But  on  this  19th  day,  comes  ye  said  Gookin  to  Charlestown,  &  with- 
out any  Warr*  brake  open  Mr.8  Trumbal's  House,  Rob*  Wyer's  House  & 
Dan.  Smith's  House,  where  he  found  &  seiz'd  Mrs  Trumbal  ;  His  Warr* 
being  demanded  for  so  doing,  he  said,  he  was  ye  Kings  Officer  &  needed 
no  Wan*  ; &  y*  
by  vertue  of  his  office  he  could  break  open  any  house, 
or  all  ye  Houses  in  Town,  if  he  saw  meet,  or  words  to  this  effect. 
Cap*  Sprague  told  me,  y*  in  his  hearing  at  Geo.  Monk's  in  Boston,  & 
in  ye  Hearing  of  many  more,  Mr  Andrew  Belcher  of  Charlestown,  on  ye 
18th  instant  did  say,  y* ye  Jury  y* found  Leysler  &  his  Accomplices  guilty, 
&  Dudley  ye  Judg  who  Condemn'd  ym  to  death,  deserved  to  be  Hanged 
ym!  &  it  was  pitty  Dudley  had  not  been  Hanged  w?  he  was  in  England, 
present  at  ye  same  time  Piam  Blower,  Benj"  Alford  &  many  others. 
20    Pretended  Election  at  Boston. 
June  2    Their  Court  adjourned  to  October 
3  Elizabeth  Robinson  came  to  us,  to  serve  for  Wages  at  £3.  0.  0. 
ye  yeare 
July  25  One  Richd  Lilly,  com  in  from  ye  Westindies  in  one  Robin- 
son ye  
day  before,  being  handing  small  Armes  into  Charles  Hopkins 
boat  at  Boston,  to  be  carryed  on  shore,  took  one  Gun  & 
shot  mS  holdmg  ye  muzzle  towd.8  Hopkins,  said,  old  man  here's  a 
gun  for  you,  &  immediately  ye  Gun  fired  &  shot  ye  said  Hop- 
kins into  ye  body,  wherof  he  presently  dyed.  This  Hopkins  wife  is 
Maj'   Henchman's  sister  :  &  Rich?  Lilly  is  old  Lilly's  son  ye  Cooper. 
August  4  By  a  Vessel  from  New-York,  we  have  ye  sad  Newes  of 
Col.  Henry  Sloughter's  death,  ye  Kings  Govr  there,  who  dyed  suddenly. 
Sep*  2  At  Dunstable,  one  man,  his  wife  &  son  &  patrick  Mark's 
Daughter  killd  by  Indians.1 
29    Barachiah  Arnold,  Arrived  from  London. 
Octob.  2    Cap*  Jn°  ffoy  sailed  for  London. 
Sep*  2 1    Cap*  Wm  Symms  dyed  of  a  feaver. 
Octob.  1 6    Mr  Rich,  ffoster  sailed  for  London. 
25  One  Gutteridge  &  his  wife  &  3  more,  Living  in  ye  bounds  of 
Rowly  were  Murthered  by  Indians,  two  more  of  ye  family  missing, 
this  was  on  ye  Sabbath  Evening. 
26  A  merch*  &  a  master,  lately  com  from  Bristoll  (ye  merch*8  name 
1  The  victims  of  this  murderous  assault  were  Joseph  Hassell,  Anna,  his  wife, 
and  Benjamin,  their  son,  and  Mary,  daughter  of  Peter  Marks.  The  scene  of  the 
massacre  lies  now  within  the  limits  of  the  city  of  Nashua,  New  Hampshire. 
 - 197 - 
158  MASSACHUSETTS  HISTORICAL  SOCIETY.  [Jan. 
was  Martindale)  &  one  Shortridge,  Mr  Gilbert's  Mate,  &  2  other  men, 
all  Drowned,  coming  up  fromye  Hands  in  ye  night,  wind  at  N.  W.  in  Gil- 
berts Yaul,  supposed  to  overset.  ye  
Wind  blowing  very  hard,  not  one  saved. 
It  is  Reported,  another  family  is  Cut  off  by  ye  Enemy  at  Aimsbury 
this  night. 
Novemb.  8  A  Violent  Storm  of  Wind  &  Rain  at  S.  did  much  harm 
to  Wharfes  &c. 
One  man  Drowned  out  of  a  Woodboat  in  ye  South  River  on  Mistick- 
side,  a  Boston  man. 
12  A  flight  of  snow  about  an  hour,  Wind  at  N.  W.  wch  continued 
blowing  very  hard,  &  Extream  Cold,  freezing  weather,  till  Saturday 
Evening  ye  14*!1 
14   John  ffoster  sailed  for  Barbadoes. 
1 6  At  night,  began  a  Storm  at  N.  E.  very  much  Wind,  Snow  & 
Haile  all  night,  Less  wind  ye  next  day,  snow  continued  more  or  less 
till  night.  A  Vessel  from  Madera  Castaway  at  Cape  Cod  this  storm, 
one  More  was  master,     men,  &  most  of  ye  Goods  saved. 
18    A  clear,  sharp  day,  fresh  gale  at  N.  W. 
22  Fair,  sunshine  weather  Wind  at  N.  W.  &  freezing  nights  &  morn- 
ings all  
the  last  week  from  ye  18^  day  till  this  day,  w!  there  was  little 
or  no  Wind  ;  cloudy  at  night ; 
23  Munday,  Wind  at  S.  E.  cloudy,  moderate  weather  ;  
Rain  at  night, 
all  night,  more  or  less. 
24  Tuesday,  Wind  at  N.  &  NNE.  moist,  misty  weather  &  Cold  : 
but  thawing. 
25  Wedensday  :  Wind  at  N  &  NNE.  Bleu  hard  in  ye  morning  & 
snow  all  day  more  or  less,  cold,  but  thawing. 
26  Thursday,  Wind  at  N.  W.  fair  Weather. 
29  Sabbath,  a  Very  cold  day,  snow  &  rain  at  night,  Wind  S.  E. 
Little  of  it 
Nov.  30  Munday,  Wind  at  N.  W.  cloudy,  misty  weather,  clear  at  night. 
1  went  to  Boston  wth  Mr  Knill,  discoursed  Mr  Newton  about  his 
busines  :  also  Comitted  to  Mr  Newton  ye  prosecuting  Mf  Pool's  bonds 
at  next  Court,  I  gave  him  12s 
Mf  Sheafe  promised  to  com  over  to  me  this  week,  &  if  Mf  Ellis  did 
not,  he  would  make  up  w'  I  had  already  recd  of  Mf  Ellis  30'  for  ye 
writings  drawn  betw.  them. 
Dec.  1    Tuesday,  a  moderate  day,  raine  at  night,  little  or  no  wind. 
2  Wedensday,  Wind  at  N.  E.  Rain  &  snow.  &  much  rain  at  night, 
blew  hard. 
Mr  Knill  [This  line  is  written  in  cypher ;  and  for  a  translation  by 
our  associate,  Mr.  Upham,  see  his  letter  printed  below.]  1 
1  Newtonville,  Mass.,  Jan.  16,  1892. 
Dr.  Samuel  A.  Green: 
My  dear  Sir,  —  The  short-hand  in  Hammond's  Journal,  which  you  asked 
me  to  decipher,  diners  from  any  I  have  ever  met  with.    Among  the  twenty  or 
 - 198 - 
1892.]  DIARY   OF   LAWRENCE   HAMMOND.  159 
Mary  Martin  came  this  day  to  our  House  to  Dwell. 
6  Good,  moderate  weather  till  day ;  wch  was  cold  &  still  ;  
in  ye  night 
Raine  &  mc.h  winds  at  E  &  S.  E.  Mr  Jonaife-.  Russel  preached  this 
afternoon  in  Joh.  1.  12. 
7  a  faire  day,  wind  at  N.  W.  moderate  weather. 
8  Tuesday,  wind  at  N.  &  N.  E.  a  moderate,  still  day,  Rain  all  night, 
wind  at  E  &  S  E. 
This  Afternoon  Mr  Dudley  came  over  &  w*?1  him,  Cap!  ffoxcraft  & 
Cap*  Davis  ;  
Mr  Graves,  Cap*  Sprague,  Cap*  Hunting,  Mr  Jn?  ffowle 
&  myselfe  treated  y™  at  Sumers  w*?  a  Glass  of  Wine,  Majr  Hinchman, 
came  to  Town  this  Evening  &  was  in  ye  Company. 
9  Wedensday,WindatN.  E.   Rain  all  day.  cleernight.  WindatNW. 
10  Thursday,  fair,  moderate  day,  wind  at  S.  W. 
11  fryday,  fair,  moderate  day,  wind  at  S.  W. 
Jn°  Pullen  came  in  from  Jamaica  ;  
W™  Gerish  wth  him. 
Mr  Newton  &  Mr  Pool  came  over  to  me  ;  
Mr  Pool  proposed  to  pay 
£38.  money  &  209  Mr  Newton's  fees  for  a  final  issue.  1  told  him  if  ye 
Women  concerned  w*  accept  it, I  w?  be  satisfyed,  &  wd  give  Mr  Newton 
a  speedy  acco*  therof.  I  accordingly  spake  w**  Mrs  Long  &  Mr.8  Tuck, 
who  did  both  accept  his  proposals. 
12  from  this  day  to  ye  17*h  moderate  weather  &  som  Raine. 
18  Tho.  Gilbert  saild  for  Jamaica.  Wind  at  N.  W.  blew  hard,  a 
flight  of  snow,  cold  weather. 
1 9  Saturday,  wind  at  W.  &  W  &  by  N.  blew  hard,  faire  weather  &  cold. 
28    Wm  Gerrish,  shipped  on  a  sloop,  bound  for  Mountserrat,  Edw. 
Loyd  Mr  at  40  s W  mense. 
January  22  Cap*  Dolbury  arrived  at  Cape  Cod  from  London,  Rob*. 
Orchard  a  passenger  in  him,  came  to  Boston  by  Land  ye  26*  day. 
brought  not  one  Letter  w*  him  from  on  board,  sent  from  London,  a 
■Lre  to  Coll.  page  from  ye  Mr,  he  brought,  wc.h  informs  y*  
S.r  W"?  Phipps 
is  coming  Gen1.1  Govr  over  all  ye  territory  from  ye  East  end  of  New- 
york  to  ye  West  end  of  Newfoundland,  y*  
ffoy  &  Quelsh  &  Bant  are 
taken  Bob.  Orchard  tells  ye  same  ;  ye  
News  of  ye  
Govr  they  recd  at  plirn0. 
6  weekes  passage  from  plym0,  y*  Ware  &  Gillam  came  out  wth  them 
more  short-band  alphabets  existing  before  1692  the  only  one  that  furnishes  a  clew 
is  that  of  Thomas  Skelton,  1650,  which  is  the  same,  substantially,  as  that  of  Elisha 
Coles,  1674.  A  few  of  the  characters  are  double  consonants  or  arbitrary  symbols 
not  given  in  the  alphabet,  so  that  their  meaning  can  only  be  conjectured.  What 
is  doubtful  is  given  within  brackets.  Using  Skelton's  alphabet,  I  make  the  entries 
to  read  as  follows  :  — 
1691,  Dec.  2.  "M>  Knill  [th]is  m[or]ning  told  me  [at  our]  h[ou]s[e]:  t[hat]  he  was 
sur[e]  he  sh[ou]ld  n[ot]  liv[e]  30  da[y]s  mor[e]  :  he  was  in  a  pa[y]ing  :  to  [save]  being 
[attached?]" 
1694,  May  8.    "Jos.  Araald  for  Antigua.  /    mistris  ha[  ]d  went  down  to  Nan- 
tasket  :—  " 
1694,  June  24.    "myself  presenting  her  to  [him]  to  be  baptized." 
Very  truly  yours, 
William  P.  Upham. 
 - 199 - 
160  MASSACHUSETTS   HISTORICAL  SOCIETY.  [JAN. 
January  14    A  Fast  thro'  the  Colonie  by  order  of  Gen11  Court, 
24  Sabbath  day  morning  sayled  sundry  Vessels  from  Nantasket, 
among  whom,  Barachiah  Arnold  &  Edw.  Loyd  for  Mountserrat. 
25  York  at  ye  Eastward,  Attaqued  by  French  &  Indians,  most  of 
ye  Town  burnt;  140  persons,  missing,  about  40  found  killd  &  buryed 
by  Cap1  fflood  &  his  Company,  who  lay  in  pay  at  pascatao^.  when  this 
ruine  befell  York,  &  went  After  ye  mischiefe  was  don,  to  bury  ye  dead. 
Mr.  Shubal  Dummer,  Minister  of  ye  Town  found  cut  in  pieces. 
Febr.  15  My  Daughter  Elizabeth  Peirson  was  delivered  of  a  son, 
in  Boston. 
gr  yym  Temple  in  a  Treatise  of  his,  thus  describes  King  WE  of  England. 
He  is  a  prince  of  great  firmnes  to  wt  he  promises  or  denies  ;  He  speaks 
little  but  thinks  much;  Ambitious  to  be  great  ; a  prince  of  great  vertues 
&  no  apparent  Vices. 
23  Rain  began  in  ye  night,  &  continued  all  ye  week,  more  or  less  to 
rain  wth  much  wind  betw.  ye  S.  E  &  N.  E. 
28  Likewise  much  rain  &  wind.     Som  raine  ye  29th  also. 
March  1    Wind  at  N.  W.  &  cleare  weather. 
These  raines,  wth  ye  Violent  sudden  melting  of  ye  snow  in  ye  
Wilder- 
nes  caused  such  a  sudden  &  Violent  flood  y*  hath  done  abundance  of 
damage  in  most  parts  of  ys  Country,  carrying  away  bridges,  Mills  &c. 
Connecticut  river  3  f*  higher  yn  ever  it  was  known  before,  destroyed 
m^  Cattel  in  ye  meadows,  carryed  away  som  Houses,  &  washed  away 
in  many  places  ye  very  land  w1)1  ye  English  graine  sown  in  it. 
Febr.  25  My  Daughter  Abigail  [widow  of  Luke  Greenough]  was 
marryed,  before  Mr  Sewell  to  Mr  James  Whippo  of  Barnstable. 
March  1  My  wife  &  I  set  out  on  Horsba^k  wth  son  &  Daughter 
Whippo  for  Barnstable,  but  at  Roxbury  were  informed  ye  waters  were 
so  high  &  wayes  so  bad  we  could  not  pass.     We  returned  to  Boston. 
2  We  took  passage  in  a  Sloop,  Sam.  Allen  Ml  in  ye  morning,  but 
ye  wind  being  contrary  we  put  into  Cunnihasset  [Cohasset]  &  landed 
there  at  night ;  
from  thence  we  travaild  by  land 
7    &  arrived  at  Barnstable  on  Munday  night  ye  7th  instant. 
19  My  wife  &  I  set  out  from  Barnstable  came  to  Sandwich,  staid  ye 
Sabbath,  lodged  at  Mr  Prince's. 
21  We  came  to  plimouth,  lodged  at  Mr  Cottons. 
22  We  came  to  Braintree,  lodged  at  Mf  fisks. 
23  We  came  safe  home,  thro'  Gods  mercy. 
1692 
Apr.  18  Susanna  Burrage  came  to  us  to  serve  for  wages  at  4*. 
$  annu. 
Parson  Gerish  first  went  to  School  to  Mr  Emerson. 
21    Mr  Steph  :  Codman's  sloop  launched,  built  by  Mr  Row. 
29  M.r  Jn°  ffoster  arrived  from  Barbadoes. 
May  3    Ml:  Dudley  arrived  from  N.  York. 
 - 200 - 
1892.]  DIARY  OF  LAWRENCE  HAMMOND.  161 
4  An  Election  held  at  Boston,  ye  only  change  made,  was,  Mr  W- 
Johnson  of*  Wooburn  left  out  &  Maj!  Jn°  Richards  taken  in. 
11    Cap*  Elisha  Bennet's  ship  was  launched  by  Edwd  Johnson. 
14  S?  W-.  Phipps  arrived  in  ye  Evening  (being  Saturday)  in  ye  Non- 
such ffriggot,  Cap!  Staples  in  a  Hakeboat  in  Compay,  &  a  french  prize 
by  ym  taken  on  Newfoundland-banks,  loaden  wth  Sugar,  bound  for  france 
from  Martinico. 
16  Munday,  10  Companies  in  Arms,  consisting  in  8  of  Boston  &  2 
of  Charlestown,  attended  Sr  W_  to  ye  Townhouse  where  his  Comission 
was  read,  to  be  Cap1  Gen11  &  Gov!"  in  chiefe  over  Massachusets  &  pli- 
mouth  ; &  ye  Kings  Lieu!  over  ye  militia  in  Connecticut,  Road  Hand  & 
province  of  New- Hampshire.  Likewise  M'  Stoton's  Comission  to  be 
Lieu!  or  Deputy  Govr.  &  ye  Kings  Deputy  Lieu!  over  ye  militia  &c.  M! 
Addington  Secretary  included  in  ye  Govrs  Comission,  as  likewise  all  ye 
Council.  Mr  Stoughton  gave  ye  oath  to  ye  Govr  as  by  Comission  he  was 
appointed  ye  
Secretary  gave  ye  oath  to  M!  Stoughton  &  ye  Council,  such 
as  were  present. 
26   Publike  Fast  held  by  order  of  ye  Governm! 
24  Mr.s  Cary,  wife  of  Nath.  Cary,  Committed  to  Cambridge  prison, 
&  put  in  Irons,  upon  suspition  of  witchcraft. 
Coppy  of  a  Warr!  for  an  Assembly. 
S:  W?  Phipps  Knf  Cap*  Gen1}  fy  Govr.  in  chiefe  of  their  Maf*? 
province  of  ye  Massachusets  Bay  in  N.  E.  in  America. 
To  ye   Constables  or  Constable  of  Charles  town,  Greeting. 
These  are  in  yr  Maf.es  Names  Ws  &  Mary  by  ye  grace  of  God  of 
Engld,  Scotland,  France  &  Ireland  K  &  Q :  
&c.  to  will  &  require  you, 
upon  rec*  hereof,  forthwth  to  assemble  at  such  time  &  place  as  you  shall 
appoint,  ye  freeholders  &  other  Inhabitants  of  ye  sd  Town  &  place, 
qualifyed  as  in  &  by  his  Majt!.es  Royal  Charter  for  setling  of  ye  Gov- 
ernm!  of  sd  province  is  directed,  y*  is  to  say,  such  as  have  an  Estate 
of  freehold  in  land  within  ye  sd  province  or  Territory  to  ye  Value  of 
40/s  V  annu  at  least,  or  other  Estate  to  ye  Value  of  40?  sterl  :  to  Elect 
&  depute  two  psons  &  no  more  to  serve  for  &  represent  y™  in  a  great 
or  Gen11  Court  or  assembly  for  ye  sd  province,  by  me  appointed  to  be 
convened,  held  &  kept  at  ye  Townhouse  in  Boston  upon  Wedensday 
ye  8th  day  of  June  next  ensuing  ye  date  hereof  for  their  Majties  Service  ; 
wc.h  person  so  Elected  or  deputed  by  ye  major  part  of  ye  sd  freeholders 
&  other  Inhabitants  who  shalbe  present  at  ye  sd  Election,  you  are 
timely  to  Sumon  to  attend  ye  sa  great  &  Gen1!  Court  or  assembly  ye 
day  above  prefixed  by  9  in  ye  morning  &  make  return  of  this  writ 
w*  yoT  doings  therin  under  yo!  hand,  into  ye  Secretary's  Office  ye  day 
before  ye  sd  Assembly's  meeting ;  
hereof  fail  not  as  you  will  answer 
21 
 - 201 - 
162  MASSACHUSETTS   HISTORICAL  SOCIETY.  [Jan. 
y.r  
neglect.     Given  under  my  hand  &  seal  at  Boston  ye  20th  of  May 
1692,  in  ye  4th  year  of  their  sd  Majties  Reign.                           W«  Phipps 
June  1  The  freeholders  of  Charlestown  met  to  choose  Assembly- 
men   Major  Phillips  chosen  Moderatour. 
It  was  proposed  by  Mf  Graves  to  Enquire  who  had  a  right  in 
Voting  &  y*  a  list  of  their  names  might  be  taken  ;  
but  y*  was  not 
approved.     They  were  not  willing  to  question  any  present. 
The  manner  of  Voting  being  discoursed,  Mr  Graves  proposed  by 
polling  according  to  ye  way  of  England  ;  but  Votirig  by  papers  was 
preferred  before  it ;  Mr  Morton  being  ye  Chiefe  speaker,  did  wth  great 
Vehemency  (&  as  little  prudence)  inveigh  agst  ye  manner  of  Choosing 
parliam!  men  in  England,  calling  it  prophane  &  wicked  &c. 
They  carryed  it  by  a  Vote  to  choose  by  papers  ;  &  ye  minor  part  of 
ye  Voters  present  chose  Jacob  Green  senf  &  Sam.  Phipps  ;  above  40 
Voters  present  refused  to  Vote  in  y*  way,  &  so  Voted  not  at  all ;  many 
of  whom  refused  to  Vote,  only  because  they  carryed  it  in  y*  way. 
Divers  freeholders  we  find  were  not  warned  to  ye  meeting  so  y*  It 
is  Judged  an  illegal  choise. 
2  A  Court  of  Oyer  &  Terminer  held  at  Salem  this  day,  W-  Stough- 
ton  Esq3  Judge,  to  try  severall  of  those  who  are  accused  of  Witchcraft. 
3  An  old  Woman,  wife  of  one  Bishop  of  Salem  (her  name  was  for- 
merly Olliver)  found  guilty,  &  condemned  to  be  hanged. 
6  The  Conception,  a  man  of  Warre  Comanded  by  Cap*  Fairfax 
arrived  here  from  Virginia,  being  ordered  from  Whitehall  to  guard 
this  Coast,  as  he  shall  receive  orders  from  ye  Governo1  She  is  a  french 
prize,  a  5*  Rate,  32  guns 
8    The  Assembly  Convened  at  Boston. 
ye  Con-  10    Cap1  Sprague  myselfe  &  divers  others  of  our  Town, 
demned       went  down  to  ye  Hands  in  Steph.  Codman's  Sloop,  we  came 
woman  was         .  J  mo  *  «     » 
this  day       up  in  ye  Afternoon,  &  ye  Sloop  &  men  Arms  &  Ammuni- 
hangd  tion  belonging  to  her  were  Impressed  for  ye  Kings  service. 
11  Tho:  Het  senf  went  up  in  Edw.  Johnson's  Cannoo  towd.8  ye 
Oyster  banks  near  Cambridge  River  to  get  Oysters  ;  
he  fell  out  of  ye 
Cannoo,  about  ye  point  of  marsh  belonging  to  Mr  Hills  farm  ;  none 
being  w*!1  him.  Mr  Hill  heard  a  man  Hallow,  &  casting  his  eyes  y* 
way,  saw  a  Cannoo  adrift  &  a  man  in  ye  water  ;  
he  hastned  to  him 
wth  his  boat,  &  found  him  on  ye  flats  drowned  in  not  above  3  foot 
water,  he  took  him  up,  &  brought  him  to  Town. 
July  5    A  fire  began  in  ye  King's-Head  Tavern  in  Boston, 
by   Halsy's  Wharf,  bet w   11   &   12  at  night,  w*  destroyed 
about  20  Dwelling  Houses  &  Warehouses 
6    Commencem*  day. 
July  14  Publike  Thanksgiving  throughout  ye  province,  by  ordr.  of 
Govr  &  Council 
 - 202 - 
1892.]  DIARY   OF   LAWRENCE   HAMMOND.  163 
17    The  Moon  almost  totally  Ecclipsed. 
] 9     Five  persons  Executed  at  Salem,  being  Convicted  of  Witchcraft. 
20  I  removed  wth  my  family  to  Cap*  Jn°  Wing's  House  in  Boston, 
at  £12.  f  annu.  Rent  ye  stable  included. 
12  Leat  to  Seth  Sweetsir  ye  stable  standing  by  ye  House  Rented 
by  Edwd  Johnson  in  Charlestown,  at  15/8  7$  annu. 
Aug81  3  Arrived  Jn°  Bolston  from  Jamaica,  who  brought  ye  tidings 
of  ye  amazing  Earthquake  at  y*  Hand,  wherby  ye  whole  Town  of 
port  Royal  (Except  ye  back  street)  is  sunk  under  water,  &  above  2000 
Earthquak  psons  suddenly  destroyed,  not  a  House  upon  ye  Hand,  but  is 
at  Jamaica  either  down  or  greatly  damnifyed.  this  hapned  June  7*?  about 
noon,  being  tuesday,  a  faire,  still  day ;  ye  Town  all  well,  &  sunk,  being 
overflowed  by  ye  sea  in  ye  space  of  2  or  3  minutes  ; 4  or  5  fathom 
water  &  in  som  places  more  now  over  ye  Town. 
4   A  fast  at  ye  North-Church  in  Boston. 
12  A  fast  at  Charlestown. 
A  post  from  pascataq9  gives  acco*  of  ye  arrival  of  ye  Mast  ships,  w*h 
a  man  of  warr  of  forty  odd  guns,  in  whom  M*  Jn?  Usher  came,  L*  Govr 
of  y*  
province  ; 
News  from  England,  y*  on  ye  18th  or  19th  of  May,  ye  English  & 
french  fleets  Engaged  ;  y*  
ye  french  was  routed,  about  23  of  their  Capi- 
tol Ships  burnt  &  sunk,  wherof  ye  Admiral  &  Vice  admiral,  of  104 
guns  a  ps,  ye  rest  most  of  80  &  70  guns  a  ps,  none  under  60  guns,  a 
little  before  this  Engagem*,  a  grand  plot  was  discovered,  wherein  sev- 
eral Lords  &  Gentlemen  were  concerned  to  bring  in  King  James. 
13  Cap*.  Bozinger  arrived  in  Boston,  who  came  w*.h  ye  mast  ships 
from  London. 
11    Leat  to  Daniel  of  Boston  Butcher,  ye  stable  belonging  to 
Cap*  Wings   House,  at  40/s  f   annu.     Rent    to    begin  when   put   in 
repaire  ;  
Mr  Jn°  Fowl  present  at  ye  Agreem^ 
15    The  Stable  repaired,  ye  Rent  began  this  day,  being  Munday 
Sep*  5  Mr  Jn°  Foster  sailed  for  Barbadoes,  being  Munday,  a  fair 
wind  continued  till  Thursday  morning. 
Sep*.  16  Cap*  Jn°  Carter  of  Wooburn  was  buryed  (who  dyed  of  a 
feaver)  the  bearers  were,  Cap*  Wm  Johnson,  Cap*  Jos.  Lynde,  Cap*  Jer. 
Swain,  Cap1.  Jn°  Brown,  Cap*  Jonath.  Danforth  &  myself,  gloves  to 
ye  bearers. 
17    The  Governor  saild  for  Pemiquid  in  ye  sloop  Mary. 
ye  20«»  19    Cap'  Gilbert  &  Cap*  Ernes  arrived  from  Canada  river, 
Mr  Hough    tney  brought  in  w*.h  y1?  a  french  prize,  a  Flyboat,  Judged  about 
do^Can2     300  Tuns  ful1  of  french  Goods'  taken  in ^  m0uth  °f  
Canada> 
dies.  bound  up  ye  River,  from  France,  she  is  judged  a Rich  ship. 
24  8  psons  hanged  at  Salem,  &  one  pressed  to  death  som  dayes  be- 
fore being  Condemned  about  Witchery.  21  in  all  have,  been  Executed 
at  Salem  since  ye  Court  began. 
 - 203 - 
164  MASSACHUSETTS   HISTORICAL   SOCIETY.  [Jan. 
26  I  Recd  of  M?  Grace  Ireland  £12.  0.  0  in  good  ps  of  -§-  
for  wch 
I  gave  her  a  Bond  under  my  hand  &  Seale  to  pay  to  her  Husband  Mr 
Ju°  Ireland  £12.  9.  6  in  good  &  Lawfull  money  of  N.  E.  on  or  before 
ye  26  of  march  next  ;  she  promised  y*  If  they  could  spare  it  &  I  shd 
desire  it,  I  might  have  it  another  halfe  yeare. 
Mf  Jn?  Ireland  arrived  from  Nevis  this  Evening. 
28  Cap*  Elisha  Bennet  sailed  for  Barbadoes  &  Cap*  Quelsh  for 
Jamaica.     They  stopt  at  Nantasket. 
29  The  Governo?  arrived  from  Pemiquid. 
Oct.  8  A  Rainy  day  Wind  at  N.  cleer  night  &  a  hard  frost,  wind  N.  W 
9    Sabbath  day,  Wind  at  N.  W.  a  very  cold  day. 
1st  10    Snow  in  ye  morning,  fair  before  noon,  snow  gone  by 
Noon. 
11  Majr  Hinchman,  lodged  here  this  night,  &  desired  quarters  & 
lodging  here  till  ye   Genu  Assembly  shall  end.  wch  we  granted 
12  Gen!1  Assembly  began;  Cap*  Goodenow,  began  to  Quarter  here 
this  night  on  ye  same  occasion  w*.h  Majr  Hinchman. 
15  Maj'  Hinchman  went  home  after  dinner.  Cap*  Goodenow  staid 
here. 
30  The  Man  of  Warre  &  Mast  Ships  saild  from  Pascatq3.  Made 
Daniel  &  Mrs  Woodgate  went  Passengers. 
Dec.  2    Mr  Thwing  saild  for  Montserat. 
3    Edw.d  Loyd  saild  for  Montserat. 
14  I  recd  a  ire  from  Bf  Parson,  by  one  Monk,  who  arrived  here 
ye  12th  day.  in  it  a  Bill  Exchange  drawn  by  Mr  Anthony  Hodges  of 
Montserat  for  £36.  5.  0.  payable  to  my  Brother  or  order,  by  Mf  James 
Leblond  of  Boston  at  10  ds  sight  I  did  ye  same  day  present  ye  Bill 
to  him,  who  pd  ye  money  on  sight.  It  was  signed  by  my  Brother  on 
ye  back  side. 
15  Mf  James  Berry  Arrived  from  Jamaica,  by  whom  we  have  yc 
sad  News  of  Mf  Clutterbucks  death  after  his  arrival  at  Jamaica,  taken 
sick  Sep*  24.  dyed  ye  29th  Also  of  ye  continuance  of  ye  Earthquake, 
&  a  dreadfull  mortality  about  4000  dead  since  ye  Earthquake,  besides 
those  yl  
perished  by  it,  Computed  about  2000  persons. 
13  Tuesday  :  Betty  Palladay  came  home  from  Mf  Taylors  &  Betty 
Gerrish  went  to  Mf  Taylor's  in  her  place. 
19  Cap!  Ernes  in  ye  Fly  boat  St  Jacob  sailed  for  Salturtootha  [Sal 
Tortugas]. 
20  Mf  Jos.  Lynde  sailed  in  his  Ketch  for  Salturtootha. 
19    Cap*  James  Thomas  Sailed  for  Barbadoes. 
21  In  ye  Evening,  about  6  of  ye  Clock,  a  fiery  meteor  blazed  w*.h 
a  great  light,  sending  from  it  7  or  8  distinct  balls  of  fire,  shooting  from 
ye  West  towd8  ye  S.  E.  as  Cap*  Benj^  Gillam  &  Cap!  Eldridge  have 
affirmed  who  diligently  observed  it  &  say  ye  light  continued  about  2 
minutes     Mf  Sheafe  is  my  Authour,  who  told  me  he  recd  this  acco* 
 - 204 - 
1892.]  DIARY   OF   LAWRENCE   HAMMOND.  165 
from  ye  abovenamed  persons  ;  
it  was  also  Visible  to  all  y*  
were  out  of 
their  Houses  in  ye  open  Aire. 
22  Acco*  of  ye  death  of  Mr  Jn°  Russell  of  Hadley,  who  Sickned 
&  dyed  in  or  about  one  houres  time  ;  he  was  Minister  of  y1  
Towne.  ye 
day  of  his  death  was  on  the       day  of  this  instant  December. 
March  12    Cap!  Gilbert  Bant  arrived  from  London. 
19    Cap!  Jose  arrived  from  London. 
1693 
April  22  Cap*  Emms  in  Ship  S*  Jacob  arrived  wth  Salt  from  Xuma 
[Exuma].     Nath.  Green  arrived  from  Barbadoes. 
18  Indians  are  supposed  this  day  to  have  murthered  a  man  &  2 
children  &  to  have  Carry ed  away  a  Woman  &  a  boy  at  Lampereele 
river,  ye  dead  being  found,  &  ye  others  missing,  but  none  of  ye  House 
left  to  give  any  acco! 
May  8  Six  persons,  men,  Women  &  Children  murthered  by  Indians 
at  York  near  pascatq3. 
10    My  wife  returned  from  Wenham,  whether  I  carry  ed  her  Apr.  28^ 
12    M^  W1?  Thwing  arrived  from  Montserat. 
14   Mr  Stretton  arrived  from  Montserat. 
17  Edwd   Loyd  in  Ship  prosperous  arrived  from  Nevis. 
Five  nnds  sugar  4  Brr  parsons,  one  W™  Gerish's  landed  out  of  Stret- 
ton into  M*   Cooper's  Warehouse. 
Six  Tierces  sugar  Br-  Parsons  out  of  Thwing  landed  &  put  into  Mr 
Lillies  Warehouse. 
23  M"   Hall  &  M'   Rankin  came  in  from  Xuma. 
I  weighed  to  M*.  Tho.  Cooper  4  ftnds  Br  parson's  &  one  nft  W? 
Gerrish's  Sugar. 
24  Mr  Richd  Foster  came  in  from  Salturtootha. 
25  This  morning  betw.  12  &  one,  a  fire  broke  out  in  Boston,  in  ye 
Lane  opposite  to  Halsy's  Wharfe,  it  began  in  one  Holt's  House  a 
Baker.  &  proceeded  upds  ye  lane,  one  House  being  blown  up  below 
&  Giles  Fyfields   house  above  stopt  it   (w*   Gods  blessing)    so  as  to 
burn   down  only    3   houses,  wch    w'?1    2    blown   up   5  in  all 
were  destroyed,  how  this  fire  was  first  kindled,  is  not  known  ; 
In  blowing  up  one  House  David  Edwds  Arm  was  brok  ;  &  one  Whit- 
terige  a  stout  Seaman   so  bruised  yl  
he  is  said  this  day  to  be  near  death, 
this  was  don  by  ye  fall  of  timbers  upon  them. 
June  1 1  Their  Majties  Fleet  consisting  of  about  17  Saile  of  Men  of 
Warre  &  Tenders,  under  ye  Comand  of  S-.  Fra :  Wheeler  General,  ar- 
rived here  from  Martinico. 
July  5    Commencem! 
6   A  Fast  at  the  old  Church. 
August  2    Sr  Francis  Wheeler  &  yc  fleet  sailed  hence. 
1694 
April   2    Major  Jn?   Richards  of  Boston  dyed  suddenly,   being  in 
 - 205 - 
166  MASSACHUSETTS   HISTORICAL   SOCIETY.  [Jan. 
health  (to  appearance)  a  moment  before  :  being  opened  his  Vitals  ap- 
peared Very  sound. 
April  6  Maj"  Richards  was  buryed  at  ye  North  burying  place  with 
the  foot  Regiment  attending  the  funeral. 
9  St  W1"  Phips  Sailed  from  Boston  in  a  Brigantine  bound  to  the 
Eastward. 
22  Cap*  Benj?  Gillam  Command!"  of  Ship  Prud*  Sarah,  arrived 
here  from  London. 
30  Raine  began,  being  Munday,  Wind  at  E.  &  N.  E.  continued  till 
Thursday  foil,  much  Raine  fell  in  ye  time  Little  or  no  Raine  having 
fallen  in  a  month  before. 
May  7  Drr  Daniel  Allen,  a  true  Lover  of  his  Country  &  most  Loyal 
to  the  Crown  of  England,  Learned,  Wise,  Humble  pious,  most  true  to 
his  friend,  the  approved,  able  and  beloved  physician  &c.  Sickned  Sat- 
urday the  28*.h  day  of  April  in  ye  night,  and  dyed  this  day  being  Mun- 
day, to  
the  universall  griefe  of  all  good  men  who  were  acquainted  with 
his  worth. 
8  Jn?  Tenny  &  M1.  Bishop  sailed  for  Montserat 
Jaris  for  Nevis. 
Jos.  Arnald  for  Antigua.  [The  rest  of  this  line  is  in  cypher ;  and 
for  a  translation,  see  note,  page  159,  ante.] 
9  T>r.  Allen  buryed. 
6  Cap*  Horton  in  ship  Tryal  who  came  out  in  Company  with  Capt 
Gillam  arrived  this  day. 
4  Mr  Brenton  set  out  for  Road-Hand,  a  privatier  one  Cap*  Too, 
arrived  there  April  28th  with  much  treasure  y9  Dep.  Collect'  Seized  ye 
Sloop,  &  gave  notice  of  it  to  ye  Collect'  wel1  occasioned  his  going  thither. 
May  10  M's  Jose  went  tow?  PascataOg  this  day,  her  son  Richard  Lee 
sent  to  our  House,  there  to  stay  till  her  return. 
23  S'  W™  Phipps  arrived  from  pemiquid. 
June  2    Mr?  Jose  returned. 
12    Eclips  of  the  sun,  a  clear  day. 
Cap*  Wing  sent  his  Daughter  to  Warn  me  out  of  his  house 
19    Cap*  Dagget  saild  for  London. 
22   Jn?.  Phillips  &  his  Br  Sam.  philips  saild  in  a  sloop  for  Bristoll. 
Gen11  Court  adjourned  to  ye  first  Wedensday  in  7ber. 
16   My  Daughter  Abigail  wife  of  James  Whippo  delivered  of  a  Son 
at  Barnstable  about  Noon,  ye  next  day  baptized  by  ye  name  of  Laurence. 
24  My  Daughter  Elizabeth  wife  of  Tho.  Pierson  delivred  of  a 
Daughter,  who  was  Baptized  Elizabeth  by  M?  Morton  the  first  day  of 
July  foil,  at  Charlestown  [A  line  in  cypher;  and  for  a  translation,  see 
note,  page  159,  ante.'] 
25  ) 
y  Gen11  Training  at  Charlestown. 
July  18   In  ye  morning  a  little  before  day,  The  Indians  fell  upon  & 
 - 206 - 
1892.]  DIARY   OF   LAWRENCE   HAMMOND.  167 
destroyed  ye  Village  called  Oyster  river  [Durham]  in  ye  province  of 
New  Hampshire,  Killed  above  50  persons,  &  many  Carried  away,  & 
burnt  most  of  ye  Houses. 
2  or  3  dayes  after  a  party  came  down  within  2  miles  of  Strawberry 
bank  [Portsmouth,  N.  H.],  &  Killd  ye  Widow  of  Ml;  Jn°  Cutt  &  a  Negro 
man,  &  wounded  another  negro  ; 
20    Sf  W*  Phips  Sailed  in  ye  Galley  to  ye  Eastward. 
27  The  Indians  Set  upon  Groton  burnt  2  Houses,  kild  22  persons 
found  dead,  13  more  missing,  they  were  pursued  by  about  100  Horse 
but  they  returned  without  finding  them.1 
Aug8^  2  S^  W™  Phips  returned  home  from  Pemaquid.  Indians  all 
gon  from  those  parts.  &c. 
Wind  at  N.  E.  &  E.  cloudy  &  misty  all  night,  foggy  in  the  morning, 
wch  soon  turnd  to  raine  ;  We  had  abundance  of  raine  this  day  by 
many  great  showers  wth  thunder  &  Lightning,  ye  raine  continued  more 
or  less  all  night. 
4  The  sun  shined  a  little  this  morning  ;  but  ye  clouds  returned,  &  it 
rained  very  often  in  ye  day,  at  Evening  ye  raine  set  in  againe  &  con- 
tinued all  
night  with  a  very  great  Storm  of  Wind  at  N.  E. 
5  Sabbath  day  a  clear,  hot,  sunshine  day.  This  raine  is  Judged  very 
seasonable  for  ye  grass  &  Indian  Corn  wc.h  in  many  places  was  Languish- 
ing for  want  of  Raine 
This  Evening  Cap?  Fox's  child  was  baptized  (named  John)  by 
Mr  Hatten  at  Cap1  Fox's  House,  Godfathers  M?  Ja :  La-blond  &  M? 
Sherloe  Godmother  the  Wife  of  Mr  Tippet. 
Mr?  Fox  was  delivered  July  29^  about  6  o  clock  in  ye  morning  being 
ye  last  Sabbath. 
7  Eben  :  
Orton  &  Tho  :  Fowler  this  day  signed  Coven*.8  ye  sd  orton 
to  build  the  sd  Fowler  a  Barque  at  Hingham,  according  to  ye  Coven'.8 
agreed  on  ;  I  drew  ye  Writings,  &  met  the  parties  at  ye  Exchange 
Tavern  betw  :  one  &  two  afternoon,  ye  writings  being  signed,  Sealed  & 
delivred  in  ye  prsence  of  Mr  Sam.  Shrimpton  &  myself  Witnesses  ;  the 
sd  Fowler  paid  Said  Orton  £20.0.0  in  good  ps  of  eight  wc.h  sd  Orton 
recd  of  him  in  my  presence.  I  left  them  at  ye  sd  Tavern  ;  towards 
night,  ye  sd  Eben  :  
Orton  &  his  wife  went  on  board  a  Sloop  bound  for 
Hingham,  but  having  saild  part  of  ye  way  ye  wind  not  faire,  they  re- 
turned towds  Boston,  &  came  near  ye  shoar  on  ye  south  side  of  the  Town, 
&  there  ye  boom  struck  sd  Orton  overboard,  &  he  was  there  drowned, 
this  was  about  nine  at  night ;  the  next  morning  he  was  found,  w*  ye 
money  in  his  pocket. 
1  Judge  Sewall,  in  his  Diary  (Mass.  Hist.  Coll.  5th  series,  vol.  v.  p.  391),  says 
in  regard  to  this  assault  :  "  Friday,  July  27.  Groton  set  upon  by  the  Indians,  21 
persons  kill'd,  13  captivated,  3  badly  wounded  "  ;  and  the  Reverend  John  Pike,  in 
his  Journal  (Proceedings,  vol.  xiv.  p.  128),  has  the  following:  "July  27.  The 
enemy  fell  upon  Groton  abl  day-break,  killed  22  persons  &  Captivated  13." 
 - 207 - 
168  MASSACHUSETTS   HISTORICAL  SOCIETY.  [Jan. 
August  8  Their  Majties  Galley  Called  the  Newport,  and  Cap*  Jn0.  Foy 
arrived  from  England  this  day  ;  they  parted  with  another  Frig-got  & 
two  Masts  ships  bound  for  pascatc^  the  4*  instant.  Cap*  Packston 
Comands  the  Galley. 
Cap*  Sewell  &  Maj!  Townsend  departed  hence  for  Newyork  ye  6th  in- 
stant, to  meet  w*.h  Colonel  Piiichon  who  are  here  appointed  to  Joyn 
w*.h  Colonel  Fletcher  in  a  treaty  with  the  Maques  [Mohawks]  about  a 
firm  peace. 
April  7lh  1691. 
Then  Received  of  Laur.  Hammond,  by  the  order  of  Abigail  Rogers 
of  Billerica,  One  Deed  of  sale,  of  12  Acres  &  J  of  land  lying  in 
Charlestowne,  from  John  Cutler  senr  of  Charlestown,  to  William  Rogers, 
sonn  of  William  Rogers  late  of  Charlestown  dec?  under  ye  hand  &  seal 
of  ye  said  John  Cutler,  bearing  date  ye  20th  day  of  June  1690.  in  pres- 
ence of  Nathaniel  Dowse  &  Laur.  Hammond,  Witnesses.  I  say 
rec?  by  me.  Danil  Gould 
1677  A  memoriall  of  Mortality,  being  an  Acco*  of  the  Death's  of 
Persons  in  New-England,  concerning  wc.h  some  remarkable 
Circumstances  attend  the  same,  &  Especially  of  such  growne 
persons  who  have  dyed  in  Charlestowne  ;  begining  w*.h  ye 
yeare  1677. 
March  17    DT  Sam.  Alcock,  of  Boston,  after  long  languishing,  Dyed. 
May  14  Mr  David  Anderson,  Commander  of  Ship  Blessing,  bound 
home  from  London,  dyed  neer  this  land,  buryed  on  shore  at  his  funeral, 
24  Guns  fired  from  ye  ship  &  12  fro  ye  Towne 
June  1 5  Francis  Willoughby,  youngest  son  of  Fra.  Willoughby  Esq9, 
coming  from  London  in  Cap*  Jenner,  dyed  at  sea,  w*.h  ye  smallpox. 
July  17  Two  men  kild  by  Lightning,  one  at  Topsfield  &  another  at 
Wenham. 
July  18  Skipper  How  returned,  after  a  wonderful  1  preservation  at 
Sea,  five  persons  dying  on  board  &  upon  a  desolate  Hand  upon  wc.h  he 
was  cast,  all  perishing  Except  himselfe. 
Aug  5  M.r  Richd  Sharp  of  Boston,  who  came  in  well  from  sea  on 
ye  2?  instant,  dyed  of  a  viol*  distemper,  poyson  suspected. 
6  Mr  Jn°  Lake  of  Boston,  dyed,  whose  will  Mr  Sharp  aforenamed 
wrot  ye  4th  instant  ;  
but  dyed  before  ye  Testator. 
27  Isaac  Foul's  Daughter  about  4  yeares  old,  was  Drowned  in  Josh. 
Edmund's  well. 
28  Tom  my  Negro-man,  dyed  w*.h  the  smallpox. 
Sept*  9   Wm  Willoughby,  dyed  of  the  small-pox. 
Mr  Jos.  Brown's  Negro-woman,  Rose,  dyed  of  ye  small-pox. 
13    Tho.  Mousal's  wife  dyed  of  a  feaver  &c. 
21    John  Edmunds,  dyed  of  a  consumption. 
 - 208 - 
1892.]  DIARY   OF   LAWRENCE   HAMMOND.  169 
22    John  Candag's  daughter  dyed  of  ye  smallpox. 
28    M*  Jn?  Anderson  of  Boston,  Shipwright,  dyed. 
Oct.  8  Phebe  Richardson,  of  Cap*  Hinchman's  family,  dyed  of  ye 
small-pox. 
10  Acco*  brought  of  the  death  of  Mr  Benja  Gibbs,  late  of  boston 
slaine  by  his  own  Indian  in  ye  bay  of  Campech. 
•    11    Mr.s  Rawson,  the  wife  of  M"  Edw.  Rawson,  after  some  time  of 
sicknes,  dyed. 
15  The  wife  of  Lieu*  Ted,  after  long  sicknes,  dyed. 
17    The  maid  of  Mr  Tho.  Graves  in  this  Towne,  dyed  of  ye  smallpox. 
Nov.  6    Ensign  W™  Fletcher  of  Chelmsford,  dyed  of  Gripings. 
12    Sarah  Tredway,  Mr  Graves  other  maid,  dyed  of  ye  smallpox. 
1 6  John  Tomlin  of  Boston,  under  discontent,  Hanged  Himselfe. 
20  Goodm.  Williams  of  Boston,  an  aged  man,  cut  his  owne  throat 
&  dyed. 
Mr  Mather  this  day  informed  me,  that  in  Plimouth  Colonie,  about  a 
month  agoe,  an  English  Woman,  said  to  have  had  19  children,  &  w*.h 
child  of  ye  20*.h  &  two  Indians,  murthered  themselves. 
25    Jn?  Upham,  a  Sojourn-  at  Jn?  Mousal's,  dyed  of  ye  Smallpox. 
28  Jn?  Dowse  of  Charlestowne,  dyed  of  ye  Smallpox. 
Decemb.  9    W™  Johnson,  an  aged  man  of  Charlestowne,  dyed. 
10    Tho.  Larkin,  dyed  of  ye  Small-pox. 
Jn?  Dexter  of  Maiden  shot  by  Cap*  Sam.  Hunting  of  Charlestown 
whereof  he  dyed,  it  was  by  accident  done  ye  last  week. 
12  A  new  borne  child  found  in  Boston-Dock,  wc.h  had  been 
murthered. 
16    W.  Sheaf's  wife,  dyed  of  ye  Smallpox. 
22  M*  Tho.  Shepard,  ye  Reverend  &  super-Eminent  Teacher  of  this 
church,  dyed  of  ye  small-pox. 
29  John  Poor's  wife  dyed  of  ye  smallpox. 
The  Mate  of  a  Ketch,  under  saile  in  Boston  Harbour,  fell  overboard 
&  was  drowned. 
Janua  :  1  Jn?  Burrage  Junior,  dyed  of  ye  small-pox. 
2  Wm  Brown  Senior,  his  child,  dyed  of  ye  smallpox. 
7    Zech.  Foule,  dyed  of  the  small-pox. 
16  Dr  Sam.  Brackenbury  of  Boston,  dyed  of  ye  smallpox. 
17  Mr.8  Norton,  widow  of  M?  Jn°  Norton  of  Boston,  dyed  of  an 
Appoplexy. 
Mr  Alex.  Adams,  of  Boston,  dyed  ye  15th  instant. 
18  Mary  Keyes,  Nath.  Frothingham's  maid,  dyed  of  ye  small-pox. 
22    Mrs  Howard,  Maj.Willard's  daughter  &  Nath.  Howard's  wife,  dyed. 
30  Mary,  ye  widow  of  Zech.  Foule,  died  of  ye  small-pox. 
Febr.  6  W.  Antho.  Checkly's  wife  of  Boston,  dyed,  being  in  trouble 
of  mind  refused  to  eat. 
17    Jn?  Larkin,  after  13  weekes  illnes  of  ye  smallpox  &c.  dyed. 
22 
 - 209 - 
170  MASSACHUSETTS   HISTORICAL   SOCIETY.  [Jan. 
28  Deborah  Long,  daughter  of  Mich.  Long,  dyed  of  ye  smallpox. 
March  8    Old  Father  Jones,  near  90  yeares  of  age,  dyed. 
10  M-   Jos.  Lynde's  Indian  dyed  of  ye  smallpox. 
18    Jn°  Bacon's  child  dyed  of  ye  smallpox. 
Old  widow  Cutler  dyed  w*  Distempers  of  old  age. 
1678 
March  20    Jn?  Bacon's  wife  dyed. 
25  Hannah  Kettle,  daughter  of  Jos  Kettle  dyed  of  the  smallpox. 
April  4  Jn?  Lowden,  who  hath  stood  for  some  time  Excomunicated, 
dyed. 
5  M'  Josiah  Allen,  a  Merch*  in  Boston,  being  on  board  Cap*  Benj. 
Gillam's  great  ship,  was  shot  to  death  by  a  fouling  piece,  accidentally 
firing  in  a  boat,  going  off  ye  ship  side. 
7   Jn°  Newel's  child  dyed  of  ye  smallpox. 
Jn°  Bacon,  dyed  of  ye  smallpox. 
13    Nath.  Rand's  wife,  dyed  of  ye  small  pox. 
18    Widow  Barret's  child  dyed  of  ye  smallpox. 
Mr  Newman,  Minister  at  Rehoboth,  dyed  since  this  month  began. 
26  Tho.  Tarbal1  dyed  of  ye  smallpox. 
29  Mr  Hayman's  Negro  man,  dyed;  He  well  on  Saturday  fore- 
noone,  Drunk  in  ye  Afternoone,  taken  w^  an  Exceeding  swelling  in  & 
about  his  Cods  on  ye  Sabbath,  &  dyed  ys  morn? 
May  1    MT.  Sam.  Ballat's  wife  dyed  of  ye  small-pox. 
Sarah  Osburne  dyed  of  ye  smallpox. 
9  Mf  Jos.  Browne  (lately  removed  hence  to  Boston)  dyed,  having 
been  for  some  time  ill. 
13    Mf  Jn?  Lake's  widow  dyed  in  Boston  of  ye  smallpox  ; 
17  Mrs  Starre,  formerly  Gatliefe  of  Boston,  dyed  of  ye  small-pox. 
23    Wm  Goose,  Junior  dyed  at  Sea  on  board  one  Johnson,  coming 
from  London,  the  ship  came  in  this  day  ;   
he  dyed  of  ye  smallpox. 
28    Ezek.  Hamblin's  child,  dyed  of  ye  small  pox. 
30  Ezek.  Hamblin's  child  (viz.  another)  dyed  of  ye  smallpox. 
Sarah  Sawyer,  Mr  Green's  maid,  dyed  of  ye  smallpox,  or  pestilentiall 
feaver,  in  a  strange  manner  ;  
it  was  on  ye  29*  instant. 
June  6    Sam.  Carter  Junior,  dyed  of  ye  smallpox. 
9    Ursula  Cole,  ye  wife  of  Jn?  Cole  senr  dyed  of  a  feaver. 
1 1  Old  Goodm  Tarbal,1  &  ye  wife  of  Jn°  bole  Junf  &  her  child  born 
yesterday,  dyed  of  ye  small  pox. 
18  Newes  of  a  Woman  &  two  children  murthered  by  Indians  about 
New-London. 
1  Thomas  Tarbell,  Jr.,  a  former  resident  of  Groton,  but  who  after  the  destruc- 
tion of  
that  town  by  the  Indians  on  March  13, 1676,  had  removed  to  Charlestown. 
Thomas,  the  father,  died  seven  weeks  later,  also  at  Charlestown,  on  June  11 ;  and 
they  both  were  original  proprietors  of  Groton. 
 - 210 - 
1892.]  DIARY   OF  LAWRENCE   HAMMOND.  171 
June  19  Three  Indians  of  Natik  kild  by  ye  Mohawkes,  &  divers 
captiv'd. 
30    Cap*  Tho.  Clerk,  Ironmonger  in  Boston  dyed. 
July  4   Mr  Timo.  Symmes  dyed  of  ye  small-pox. 
15    Mrs  Marshal,  wife  of  Mr  W?  Marshal,  dyed  of  ye  smallpox. 
Aug.  6    Henry  Swaine's  wife  dyed  of  ye  smallpox 
The  following  receipts  are  of  interest,  as  showing  the  crude 
ideas  that  prevailed  more  than  two  centuries  ago,  here  and 
elsewhere,  in  regard  to  medical  therapeutics. 
Physical  Receipts. 
For  Comforting  the  Head  &  Braine. 
Take  Rosemary  &  Sage  of  both  sorts  of  both,  w*  flowers  of  Rose- 
mary if  
to  be  had,  &  Borage  w*!1  ye  flowers.  Infuse  in  Muscadine  or  in 
good  Canary  3  dayes,  drink  it  often. 
The  fat  of  a  Hedg-hog  roasted  drop  it  into  the  Eare,  is  an  Excel- 
lent remedy  against  deafnes. 
Also  a  Clove  of  Garlick,  make  holes  in  it,  
dip  it  in  Honey,  &  put  it 
into  the  Eare  at  night  going  to  bed,  first  on  one  side,  then  on  the  other 
for  8  or  9  dayes  together,  keeping  in  ye  Eares  black  wooll. 
An  Excellent  water  for  ye  Eyes. 
Take  Sage,  Fennel,  Vervain,  Bettony,  Eyebright,  Celandine,  Cinque- 
foyle,  Herb  of  grass,  pimpernel,  Steep  them  in  White  wine  one  night, 
distill  all  together,  &  use  the  water  to  wash  the  Eyes. 
The  juice  of  Eyebright  is  Excellent  for  ye  sight. 
Another. 
Take  good  White  wine,  Infuse  Eyebright  in  it  3  dayes,  then  Seeth 
it  wth  a  little  Rosemary  in  it,  
drink   it  often,  it  is  most  Excellent  to  re- 
store &  
Strengthen  the  sight.     Also  Eate  of  the  powder  of  Eyebright 
in  a  new  layd  Egge  rare  roasted  every  morning. 
Another. 
Take  Fennel,  Anniseed  &  Elicompaine,  dry  &  powder  them,  mix  it 
with  good  Nants-brandy,  &  dry  it  againe  :  Every  morning  &  Evening 
eate  a  pretty  quantity     it  is  Excellent  for  ye  sight. 
A  Medicine  to  recover  ye  Colour  &   Complexion 
WHEN    LOST    BY    SlCKNES. 
Take  two  quarts  of  Rosewater  red,  take  five  pounds  of  clean  White 
Wheat,  put  it  into  ye  Rosewater,  Let  it  Lie  till  the  Wheate  hath 
soaked  up  all  ye  Liquor,  then  take  the  Wheat  &  beat  it  in  a  mortar  all 
to  mash. 
Nettle  Seeds  bruised  &  drank  in  White  Wine  is  Excellent  for  the 
Gravel. 
 - 211 - 
172  MASSACHUSETTS   HISTORICAL  SOCIETY.  [Jan. 
For  Hoarsnes. 
Take  3  or  4  figs,  cleave  them  in  two,  put  in  a  pretty  quantity  of 
Ginger  in  powder,  roast  them  &  Eate  them  often. 
For  the  Palsey. 
Take  a  pint  of  good  Mustard,  dry  it  in  ye  Oven  till  it  be  as  thick  as  a 
pudding,  then  dry  it  over  a  Chafing  dish  of  Coales  till  it  may  be  beaton 
to  powder  mix  w*  it  a  handfull  of  powder  of  Bettony  leaves,  put  som 
Sugar  to  it  &  Eate  it  every  morning. 
For  the  Megrum. 
Mugwort  &  Sage  a  handfull  of  each,  Camomel  &  Gentian  a  good 
quantity,  boyle  it  in  Honey,  &  apply  it  behind  &  on  both  sides  ye  Head 
very  warm,  &  in  3  or  4  times  it  will  take  it  quite  away. 
Mr.  C.  F.  Adams  then  said  :  — 
In  submitting  to  the  Society  a  lengthy  and  somewhat  elabo- 
rate paper  on  a  subject  which  has  been  frequently  discussed 
here  and  elsewhere,  I  wish  to  say  a  few  words  in  regard  to  the 
reasons  which  led  to,  and  the  circumstances  which  accompa- 
nied, its  
preparation.  As  some  of  the  members  of  the  Society 
know,  I  have  for  a  number  of  years,  as  opportunity  admitted, 
been  engaged  in  a  study  of  New  England  town  and  church 
government  ;  and  in  the  course  of  it  I  have  been  led  into  sev- 
eral investigations  too  detailed  to  form  part  of  my  main  work, 
but  necessary  to  support  or  explain  the  conclusions  set  forth 
in  it.  One  of  these  collateral  and  subordinate  studies,  if  I 
may  so  call  them,  I  submitted  to  the  Society  in  a  paper  read 
by  me  at  the  meeting  in  June  last,  and  the  present  paper  is 
another  study  of  the  same  character. 
I  wish  also  to  add  that  the  conclusions  set  forth  in  this 
paper  are  wholly  at  variance  with  the  conclusions  I  had  previ- 
ously reached  in  a  preceding  paper  on  the  same  subject  pre- 
pared some  months  ago.  In  preparing  that  earlier  paper  I 
reached  certain  results  drawn  from  the  local  records  and  other 
material  I  had  before  me,  studied  in  the  light  thrown  upon 
them  by  recent  investigators  in  the  same  general  field.  How 
wholly  at  variance  those  results  were  with  the  conclusions  I 
have  since  reached  in  the  paper  I  have  in  my  hand  becomes 
apparent  when  I  quote  the  following  extract  from  the  earlier 
and  suppressed  paper  :  — 
 - 212 - 
1892.]  GENESIS   OF   THE  MASSACHUSETTS   TOWN.  173 
"  Such  was  the  common-law  English  vestry,  and  its  close  resem- 
blance both  in  function  and  method  of  procedure  to  the  New  England 
town-meeting  is  obvious.   .  .  . 
"  Towards  the  close  of  the  sixteenth  century  and  during  the  early 
years  of  the  seventeenth,  the  vestry  underwent  a  singular  fate  ;  
for 
while  on  the  one  hand,  and  in  the  Established  Church,  it  was  as  a  civic 
and  political  force  systematically  suppressed  or  made  to  perish  from 
disuse,1  on  the  other  hand,  among  the  non-conformist  and  Puritan 
elements  it  developed,  until,  ceasing  any  longer  to  be  known  as  the 
vestry,  it  became  the  church  itself,  —  or,  as  it  was  subsequently  called, 
the  congregational  society.  And  it  was  in  this  transmuted  form  that 
the  vestry  came  to  Massachusetts,  leaving  its  name  behind,  but  bring- 
ing with  it  its  forms  and  its  officers,  —  its  notices  and  its  public  meet- 
ings, its  
constables,  its  way-men  and  its  tithing-men.2 
uThe  Massachusetts  congregational  society,  thus  developed  out  of 
the  vestry,  under  its  new  conditions  and  in  process  of  time  itself 
developed  in  the  most  obvious  way  mto  government  by  town-meeting. 
The  society  was  a  unit  in  itself,  —  at  once  a  religious  fold,  a  debating 
society,  and  a  social  club.  Democratic  to  the  last  degree,  it  had,  besides 
its  articles  of  faith,  its  prudential  machinery,  its  rules  controlling  the 
admission  of  members,  and  its  forms  of  procedure.  In  other  words,  it 
was  a  theological  commonwealth,  from  which,  if  not  subjected  to  out- 
side interference,  the  evolution  in  due  time  of  a  political  republic  might 
have  been  predicted  with  certainty.  Such,  then,  was  the  line  of  devel- 
opment, or  rather  the  course  of  evolution,  —  the  vestry,  the  congrega- 
tional society,  the  New  England  town-meeting  ;  and  this,  as  already 
pointed  out,  can  be  distinctly  traced  through  the  common  nomenclature 
of  officers,  as  well  as  through  the  records  of  the  particular  town." 
Having  completed  this  paper,  I  sent  copies  of  it  to  our  asso- 
ciates, Messrs.  Goodell  and  Chamberlain,  as  I  knew  they  had 
given  much  study  to  the  subject,  and  I  was  anxious  to  have 
my  conclusions  subjected  to  their  criticism.  These  copies 
were  in  due  course  of  time  returned  to  me  by  both  gentlemen 
with  long  and  friendly  letters,  for  which,  though  they  satis- 
fied me  completely  that  my  theories  would  not  bear  examina- 
tion, I  
felt  greatly  obliged.  After  reading  their  letters  it  was 
obvious  to  me  that  I  had,  by  no  means  for  the  first  time,  fallen 
into  the  error  of  generalizing  from  insufficient  data,  and  that 
whether  Messrs.  Goodell  and  Chamberlain  were  or  were  not 
1  May's  Constitutional  History,  chap.  xv. 
2  Channing's  Town  and  County  Government  ;  Adams's  Tithing-men  and 
Norman  Constables. 
 - 213 - 
174  MASSACHUSETTS  HISTORICAL   SOCIETY.  [Jan. 
right  in  their  own  conclusions,  it  was  necessary  for  me  to  go 
over  the  ground  again  in  a  wholly  different  way. 
The  method  of  investigation  I  then  adopted  is  sufficiently 
set  forth  in  the  paper  I  now  submit  ;  and  I  make  this  prelimi- 
nary statement  merely  to  express  the  obligation  in  this  matter 
I  feel  myself  under  to  our  two  associates.  The  conclusions 
reached,  such  as  they  are,  are  my  own  ;  
but,  as  will  readily  be 
seen,  they  are  much  more  nearly  in  accord  with  those  here- 
tofore expressed  by  Messrs.  Goodell  and  Chamberlain,  and  by 
them  incorporated  in  the  Proceedings  of  the  Society,1  than 
with  the  views  of  investigators  of  another  school. 
I  will  merely  further  add,  that,  following  the  precedent  set 
by  Mr.  Deane,  —  a  most  excellent  precedent  it  seems  to  me, 
set  by  one  than  whom  no  higher  authority  can  be  appealed  to 
in  this  room,  —  following,  I  say,  the  precedent  set  by  Mr. 
Charles  Deane  in  his  discussion  with  the  late  Professor  Parker 
in  1869,2  I  have  sent  copies  of  the  paper  I  am  about  to  submit 
to  Messrs.  Chamberlain  and  Goodell,  as  well  as  to  our  libra- 
rian, Dr.  Green,  and  to  Professor  Channing,  —  who  also  have 
given  much  attention  to  this  subject, —  and  have  asked  those 
gentlemen  to  come  here  to-day  and  freely  express  their  opin- 
ions both  on  the  methods  I  have  pursued  and  the  results  I 
have  reached.  What  we  want,  of  course,  is  a  statement  of 
historical  conclusions  which  will  stand  criticism  of  the  severest 
description.  It  is  easy  to  invent  theories  and  to  advocate  par- 
ticular views  of  this  or  any  other  disputed  problem  ;  
but  the 
truth  of  the  matter  can  only  be  reached  after  every  conceiv- 
able theory  has  been  advanced  and  subjected  to  the  test  of 
investigation. 
I  now  submit  the  following  paper  on  — 
The  Genesis  of  the  Massachusetts  Town,  and  the  Development  of 
Town-meeting  Government. 
There  has  for  some  years  been  a  noticeable  tendency  among 
antiquarians  and  students  of  history,  to  find  in  the  usages  and 
customs  of  New  England  town  life  traces  and  remnants  of 
forgotten  communal  systems  peculiar  to  earlier  stages  of  civil 
and  political  development.     By  those  composing  one  section 
1  2  Proceedings,  vol.  v.  pp.  265-280,  320-331. 
2  Proceedings,  1869-1870,  p.  188. 
 - 214 - 
1892.]  GENESIS   OF   THE  MASSACHUSETTS   TOWN.  175 
of  this  school,  —  a  school  the  thought  and  conclusions  of 
which  are  the  indisputable  result  of  deep  research,  —  an  an- 
cient and  honorable  lineage  has  been  devised  for  town  insti- 
tutions, —  a  lineage  running  back  through  Anglo-Saxon  to 
Germanic  sources,  and  the  primitive  tribal  and  communal  ar- 
rangements described  by  Tacitus.  The  town  has  thus  been 
derived  by  direct  descent  from  the  "  tun,"  while  the  folk-mote 
is  found  to  have  been  the  origin  of  the  town-meeting.  A 
noticeable  example  of  this  treatment  is  that  striking  passage  in 
his  ''History  of  the  English  People,"  where  the  late  John  Rich- 
ard Green  points  out  the  geographical  birthplace  and  very 
cradle  of  both  town  and  folk-mote,  on  the  shores  of  the  North 
Sea  and  the  Baltic  ;  
just  as  some  explorer,  acting  as  a  guide, 
might  point  out  to  wondering  tourists  a  tiny  lakelet,  the  source 
of  some  mighty  river.1 
The  New  England  town-meeting  was,  and  still  is,  the  polit- 
ical expression  of  the  town  ;  and  probably  there  is  no  single 
American  institution  which,  since  De  Tocqueville  made  it 
famous  half  a  century  ago,  has  excited  so  much  and  such 
wide-spread  interest  and  admiration.  In  dealing  with  it 
statesmen,  philosophers,  historians,  and  orators  have  seemed 
to  vie  in  words  of  commendation.  The  town-meeting  has, 
in  fact,  been  the  one  feature  in  American  polit}7  which  no  one 
has  as  yet  seen  fit  to  criticise  adversely.  Naturally,  there- 
fore, what  may  be  called  the  genesis  of  the  town-meeting 
has  proved  a  peculiarly  interesting  matter  of  investigation 
to  those  in  America  composing  the  school  of  students  just 
referred  to.2 
My  attention  has  recently  been  drawn  to  this  subject  in  the 
course  of  a  careful  study  of  the  records  of  an  individual  Massa- 
chusetts town,  while  preparing  a  volume  now  passing  through 
the  press.     However  it  might  be  with  other  towns  in  New 
1  Green's  History  of  the  English  People,  vol.  i.  p.  13. 
2  See  the  following  papers  in  the  Johns  Hopkins  University  Studies  :  
Free- 
man's Introduction  to  American  Institutional  History  ;  Herbert  B.  Adams's  The 
Germanic  Origin  of  New  England  Towns  ;  Saxon  Tithing-Men  in  America  ; 
Norman  Constables  in  America;  Channing's  Town  and  County  Government 
in  the  English  Colonies  of  North  America  ;  Andrews's  The  River  Towns  of 
Connecticut.  Also,  Johnston's  Connecticut;  Hosmer's  Samuel  Adams;  and 
the  papers  of  Messrs.  Chamberlain  and  Goodell  in  2  Proceedings,  vol.  v.  pp. 
265-280,  320-331,  on  "  The  New  Historical  School  and  the  Origin  of  Towns  in 
Massachusetts." 
 - 215 - 
176  MASSACHUSETTS  HISTORICAL   SOCIETY.  [Jan. 
England,  I  found  absolutely  nothing  in  the  case  of  this  town 
(Braintree)  to  support  the  theories  referred  to.  While  un- 
doubtedly, as  
Mr.  Freeman  has  observed  in  another  connec- 
tion, the  institutions  of  every  one  of  the  older  Massachusetts 
towns  "  are  part  of  the  general  institutions  of  the  English 
people,  as  those  again  are  part  of  the  general  institutions  of  the 
Teutonic  race,  and  those  are  again  part  of  the  general  institu- 
tions of  
the  whole  Aryan  family  "  ;  yet,  while  a  general  re- 
semblance, however  striking,  is  in  itself  no  evidence  of 
descent,  it  is  easy  to  give  altogether  too  great  weight  to  simili- 
tudes and  analogies.  In  approaching  an  investigation  of  this 
sort,  therefore,  it  is  well  to  bear  in  mind  a  remark  of  Sir 
Henry  Maine  in  his  first  lecture  on  Village  Communities,  that 
it  is  "the  characteristic  error  of  the  direct  observer  of  un- 
familiar social  or  juridical  phenomena,  to  compare  them  too 
hastily  with  familiar  phenomena  apparently  of  the  same 
kind  "  ;  and  Sir  Henry  further  adds  that  "  the  greatest  cau- 
tion must  be  observed  in  all  speculations  on  the  inferences 
derivable  from  parallel  usages." 
But  while  the  Braintree  records  afforded  no  support  to  re- 
mote genetic  theories,  the  examination  of  them  soon  made  it 
apparent  that,  for  reasons  presently  to  be  stated,  Braintree 
was  not  one  of  the  towns  in  the  history  of  which  the  subject 
could  be  advantageously  studied.  It  was  equally  clear  that  it 
could  be  studied  only  in  the  original  records  of  some  properly 
selected  towns  ;  
for  the  indications  all  were  that  the  advo- 
cates of  
remote  descent  had  fallen  into  the  not  uncommon 
error  of  looking  too  far  afield  for  that  which  was  in  fact  close 
at  hand.  Accordingly,  in  order  to  secure  a  sufficiently  wide 
basis  for  generalization,  I  examined  the  original  records,  church 
as  well  as  town,  of  Hingham,  Weymouth,  Dorchester,  Ded- 
ham,  and  Cambridge,  as  well  as  those  of  Boston.  All  of  the 
towns  named,  organized  prior  to  1636,  are  among  the  original 
Massachusetts  towns  ;  and  the  evidence  on  the  subject  of  the 
genesis  of  the  town  and  town-meeting  government,  to  be  de- 
rived from  their  records,  it  is  the  object  of  this  paper  to  set 
forth  in  detail. 
The  evidence  thus  obtained  is  to  my  mind  conclusive,  that 
both  town  and  town-meeting  government,  as  seen  in  New  Eng- 
land, are  sprung  from  a  simple  English  germ,  fructifying  in 
New  England   soil;  they  are,  in  fact,   autochthonous,  —  the 
 - 216 - 
1892.]  GENESIS   OF  THE   MASSACHUSETTS   TOWN.  177 
natural  product  of  a  foreign  seed  developing  under  new  cir- 
cumstances and  conditions,  religious,  social,  material  and 
political,  local  and  general.  Indeed,  so  far  from  there  being 
any  evidence  in  the  records  of  these  towns  that  the  Massa- 
chusetts town  and  town-meeting  government  were  derived 
from  ancient  Saxon  and  Germanic  sources,  —  the  "tun"  and 
the  "  folk-mote,"  —  it  seems  clear  that  the  town  was  merely 
a  convenient  though  somewhat  vague  designation  of  adjacent 
territor}^  for  proprietary,  religious,  political,  and  military  pur- 
poses, while  the  town-meeting,  as  a  form  of  municipal  govern- 
ment, came  into  existence  gradually  during  the  first  twenty 
years  of  the  settlement,  and  through  a  process  of  evolution, 
or  rather  of  reproduction,  as  simple  as  it  was  natural. 
To  show  clearly  the  evidence  on  which  these  conclusions 
are  reached,  it  will  be  necessary  to  quote  freely  from  the  ori- 
ginal records  of  the  towns  I  have  named  ;  and  those  of  Dor- 
chester will  be  taken  first,  for  the  reason  that,  besides  being 
one  of  the  oldest  of  the  Massachusetts  towns,  its  records,  both 
church  and  town,  are  complete  and  peculiarly  full  and  instruc- 
tive ,  
indeed  it  may  fairly  be  questioned  whether  there  is  any 
Massachusetts  town  in  the  history  of  which  the  gradual  de- 
velopment of  
New  England  town  government  can  be  more 
advantageously  studied  than  in  that  of  Dorchester.1 
On  the  first  written  page  of  the  Dorchester  records  [5] 
those  connected  with  the  settlement  are  referred  to  as  "  the 
planters  in  Dorchester,"  and  on  the  succeeding  page  a  certain 
agreement  is  recorded  as  having  been  made  "  by  the  whole 
consent  and  vote  of  the  Plantation."  .The  settlement  of  Dor- 
chester Neck,  now  South  Boston,  is  reckoned  from  Sunday, 
June  T6e, 1630  ;% but  the  town  records  do  not  begin  until  1633, 
and  the  following  agreement  is  entered  under  date  of  the 
8th  of  October  of  that  year,  as  "  made  by  the  whole  consent 
and  vote  of  the  plantation  "  :  — 
"Imprimus  it  is  ordered  that  for  the  general  good  and  well  or- 
dering of  
the  affairs  of  the  plantation  there  shall  be  every  Monday  be- 
fore the  Court  by  eight  of  the  Clock  in  the  morning,  and  presently 
upon  the  beating  of  the  drum,  a  general  meeting  of  the  inhabitants  of 
1  The  first  book  of  Dorchester  Town  Records,  covering  the  period  from  1632 
to  1653,  is  printed  with  the  Fourth  Report  (Document  9  —  1880)  of  the  Boston 
Record  Commissioners.  The  early  church  records  were  printed  separately  by 
the  Society  in  1891. 
23 
 - 217 - 
178  MASSACHUSETTS  HISTORICAL  SOCIETY.  [Jan. 
the  plantation  at  the  meeting  house,  there  to  settle  (and  set  down)  such 
orders  as  may  tend  to  the  general  good  as  aforesaid  ;  and  every  man  to 
be  bound  thereby  without  gainsaying  or  resistance.  It  is  also  agreed 
that  there  shall  be  twelve  men  selected  out  of  the  Company  that  may 
or  the  greatest  part  of  them  meet  as  aforesaid  to  determine  as  afore- 
said, yet  
so  as  it  is  desired  that  the  most  of  the  plantation  will  keep  the 
meeting  constantly  and  all  that  are  there  although  none  of  the  twelve 
shall  have  a  free  voice  as  any  of  the  twelve  and  that  the  greater  vote 
both  of  the  twelve  and  the  other  shall  be  of  force  and  efficacy  as  afore- 
said. And  it  is  likewise  ordered  that  all  things  concluded  as  aforesaid 
shall  stand  in  force  and  be  obeyed  until  the  next  monthly  meeting  and 
afterwards  if  it  be  not  contradicted  and  otherwise  ordered  upon  the 
said  monthly  meeting  by  the  greatest  part  of  those  that  are  present  as 
aforesaid." 
Several  things  are  noticeable  in  this  order,  and  among  others 
the  use  of  the  words  "inhabitants  of  the  plantation,"  —  a 
form  of  expression  frequently  found  in  the  records  from  which 
quotations  will  be  made.  The  word  "  inhabitants"  now  has 
a  popular  and  accepted  sense,  signifying  all  those  living  or 
dwelling  in  a  given  territory  ;  
in  the  seventeenth  century  it 
had  a  wholly  different  and  well  understood  legal  meaning 
much  more  limited  in  character,  —  in  the  language  of  Coke, 
"  forasmuch  as  he  manures  lands  by  that  he  is  resident"  ;  
in 
other  words,  the  common  law  was  well  settled  that  a  man  was 
an  4i  
inhabitant  "  of  a  place,  whether  he  had  his  house  there  or 
somewhere  else,  when  he  had  land  in  occupation  in  that  place 
and  was  interested  in  the  management  and  well  being  thereof  ; 
and  otherwise  he  was  not  an  "  inhabitant."  J 
It  is  next  to  be  observed  that  in  the  method  of  managing 
common  business  affairs  provided  in  this  order  there  is  noth- 
ing suggestive  of  the  vestry  or  the  quarter  session,  or  any 
other  local  governing  board  known  in  English  political  or  con- 
stitutional history.  It  is  the  commercial  enterprise  which 
comes  into  prominence.  The  "  planters  "  representing  the 
ownership  of  the  "plantation"  meet  and  agree  upon  cer- 
tain rules  and  a  method  of  doing  business  ;  and  in  so  doing 
they  follow  closely  the  system  outlined  in  the  charter  of  the 
colony.  The  planters,  being  in  this  case  the  body  of  inhab- 
itants, are  the  General  Court  of  the  plantation,  or  town  ;  and 
1  Toulmin  Smith's  The  Parish,  p.  
473 ;  
Channing's  Town  and  County  Govern- 
ment, p.  
12. 
 - 218 - 
1892.]  GENESIS   OF  THE   MASSACHUSETTS   TOWN.  179 
they  in  this  General  Court,  subsequently  called  a  town-meet- 
ing, choose  certain  of  their  number  to  act  as  a  species  of  ex- 
ecutive committee,  exactly  as  the  General  Court  of  the  colony 
elected  the  Board  of  Assistants.  The  planters  occupied  the 
position  of  the  body  of  stockholders  in  a  modern  business 
corporation,  while  the  "  twelve  men  selected  "  were  the  board 
of  directors. 
Neither  in  all  this  was  there  anything  novel  or  calculated 
to  excite  surprise.  It  was  the  usual  method  of  business  pro- 
cedure then  in  vogue  in  such  cases,  and  that  in  accordance 
with  which  the  charter  of  the  colony  was  itself  framed  ;  and 
the  appointment  of  committees  of  a  general  body  to  give 
special  attention  to  matters  of  common  concern  is  not  only 
an  expedient  whicn  would  naturally  suggest  itself,  and  in- 
deed force  its  way  into  practice,  but  it  has  been  referred  to  as 
"one  of  the  most  ancient  as  well  as  one  of  the  most  striking 
and  practical  of  the  characteristics  of  English  institutions," 
and  it  might  be  added  of  civilized  human  institutions  ; for 
while  Toulmin  Smith  uses  the  language  just  quoted  in  connec- 
tion with  the  English  vestry,1  Sir  Henry  Maine,  speaking  of 
those  parts  of  India  in  which  the  village-community  is  most 
perfect,  and  in  which  there  are  the  clearest  signs  of  an  origi- 
nal proprietary  equality,  says  that  authority  is  there  lodged  in 
the  Village  Council,  which  is  always  viewed  as  a  representa- 
tive body,  and  not  as  a  body  possessing  inherent  authority.2 
The  Village  Council  of  the  East,  bearing  a  name,  whatever  its 
real  number,  which  recalled  its  "  ancient  constitution  of  Five 
persons,"  was  analogous  to  the  selectmen  of  the  New  England 
town  ;  and  both  were  ordinary  and  obvious  organizations  which 
naturally  evolved  themselves  out  of  the  business  needs  of  any 
community  those  composing  which  undertook  to  manage  their 
own  affairs.3 
i  The  Parish,  p.  227. 
2  Village  Communities,  Lecture  IV. 
3  The  late  Richard  Frothingham  is  authority  for  the  statement  (Proceedings 
of  the  American  Antiquarian  Society,  October,  1870,  p.  33)  that  the  following  from 
the  Charlestown  records  is  the  earliest  entry  ever  made  in  any  Massachusetts 
town-book  indicating  the  formation  of  a  board  of  selectmen  : — 
"  An  order  made  by  the  inhabitants  of  Charlestowne  at  a  full  meeting  for  the  govern- 
ment of  
the  Town  by  Selectmen. 
"In  consideration  of  the  great  trouble  and  chearg  of  the  inhabitants  of  Charlestowne 
by  reason  of  the  frequent  meeting  of  the  townsmen  in  generall  and  that  by  reason  of  many 
men  meeting  things  were  not  so  easely  brought  into  a  joynt  issue.    It  is  therefore  agreed 
 - 219 - 
180  MASSACHUSETTS   HISTORICAL   SOCIETY.  [Jan. 
In  the  case  of  Dorchester  the  simple  form  of  government 
provided  through  the  vote  of  Oct.  8,  1633,  seems  to  have  suf- 
ficed until  October,  1636,  at  which  time  took  place  the  well- 
known  secession  and  departure  to  Connecticut  of  a  portion, 
if  not  a  majority,  of  the  Dorchester  church.1 
by  the  sayde  townesmen  joyntly  that  these  eleven  men  whose  names  are  written  on  the 
other  syde,  (with  the  advice  of  Pastor  and  Teacher  desired  in  any  case  of  conscience,) 
shall  entreat  of  all  such  business  as  shall  conscerne  the  Townsmen,  the  choice  of  officers 
excepted,  and  what  they  or  the  greater  part  of  them  shall  conclude  of  the  rest  of  the  towne 
willingly  to  submit  unto  as  their  owne  propper  act,  and  these  11  to  continue  in  this  em- 
ployment for  
one  yeare  next  ensuing  the  date  hereof  being  dated  thus:  10th  of  February, 
1634(1635)." 
1  It  has  always  been  a  question  whether  the  church,  as  an  organization,  then 
moved  to  Windsor,  and  has  since  been  established  there,  or  whether  the  move- 
ment was  of  a  portion  of  the  church  members  acting  individually.  The  subject 
is  very  fully  discussed  in  the  preliminary  matter  to  the  published  volume  of  Dor- 
chester Church  Records.  Meanwhile  certain  investigators  belonging  to  what, 
for  the  lack  of  a  better  descriptive  term,  must  be  called  the  Connecticut  his- 
torical school,  have  of  late  thought  they  detected  deep  political  significance  in 
this  schism,  —  a  popular  dissatisfaction  at  the  union  of  church-membership  with 
political  rights,  —  and  a  protest  against  undue  magisterial  authority.  (Johnston's 
Connecticut,  pp.  18,  21,  59,  61,  75;  Walker's  Thomas  Hooker,  pp.  88,  119,  120; 
Twichell's  John  Winthrop,  pp.  114,  144 ;  
Andrews's  The  River  Towns  of  Connecti- 
cut, Johns  Hopkins  University  Studies,  vol.  vii.  pp.  27,  28.)  This  theory,  which 
seems  to  rest  mainly  on  an  unsupported  statement  of  Hubbard,  has  been  made  the 
basis  of  as  large  an  historical  structure  certainly  as  it  can  well  bear.  Unquestion- 
ably, at a  later  day  Hooker  was  a  pronounced  advocate  of  a  democratic  form  of  gov- 
ernment, while  Winthrop  felt  no  faith  in  it ;  yet  there  is  nothing  on  the  face  of  the 
records  up  to  the  time  of  the  Connecticut  schism  of  1636  to  warrant  a  belief  that 
the  movement  out  of  Massachusetts  was  anything  more  than  the  natural  swarm- 
ing of a  portion  of  the  settlers  from  the  original  hive  to  a  region  which  seemed, 
and  actually  was,  more  inviting.  Under  then  existing  circumstances  their  going 
was  naturally  objected  to  by  the  rest  of  the  colony. 
De  Tocqueville  says  that  in  New  England  "  the  impulsion  of  political  activity 
was  given  in  the  townships  ;  and  it  may  almost  be  said  that  each  of  them  origi- 
nally formed  an  independent  nation.  ...  It  is  important  to  remember  that  they 
have  not  been  invested  with  privileges,  but  that  they  have,  on  the  contrary,  for- 
feited a  
portion  of  their  independence  to  the  State."  (Democracy  in  America, 
ed.  1889,  vol.  i.  p.  61 ;  
but  see  the  criticisms  of  Mr.  Goodell  in  2  Proceedings, 
vol.  v.  p.  332.)  So  far  as  the  Massachusetts  system  of  towns  is  concerned,  this 
proposition  does  not  accord  with  well-established  historical  facts  ;  and  if  the  view 
taken  in  this  paper  of  the  connection  between  the  charter  of  the  Massachusetts 
Bay  Colony  and  the  Massachusetts  towns  is  correct,  it  explains  in  a  perfectly  nat- 
ural way  the  fact,  so  enlarged  upon  by  Professor  Johnston,  that,  while  the  towns 
in  Massachusetts  developed  out  of  the  colony,  in  Connecticut  the  process  was  re- 
versed, and  the  colony  resulted  from  a  confederation  of  the  towns,  in  the  way 
stated  by  De  Tocqueville.  The  charter  of  1629  was  the  germ  in  both  cases  ;  
but 
in  Connecticut  the  transplanted  growths  naturally  reproduced  the  necessary 
larger  organization  which  in  process  of  transplantation  had  been  left  behind. 
To  the  outside  observer  the  whole  proceeding  seems  simple,  and  the  results  pro- 
duced identical  as  well  as  natural  ;  
but  in  regard  to  them  and  their  historical 
significance  equally  careful  investigators  have  reached  diametrically  opposite 
 - 220 - 
1892.]  GENESIS   OF   THE  MASSACHUSETTS   TOWN.  181 
After  the  departure  of  those  who  moved  to  Connecticut, 
the  residue  of  the  planters  left  in  Dorchester,  with  such  new- 
comers as  settled  there,  reorganized  the  church  and  continued 
the  former  system  of  political  government.  A  vote  or  order 
was  passed  continuing  the  monthly  meetings  of  those  u  chosen 
for  the  ordering  of  the  affairs  of  the  plantation,"  and  further 
providing  that  eight  of  their  number  should  constitute  a  quo- 
rum with  power  to  "  act  and  order  anything  in  the  Plantation 
according  to  the  scope  of  former  orders  to  that  effect." 
A  few  months  later  (Jan.  16, 1636),  the  following  additional 
order  was  passed  :  — 
"  It  is  ordered  that  ten  men  shall  be  chosen  to  order  all  the  affairs  of 
the  plantation  on  this  manner.  They  shall  continue  a  monthly  meeting 
during  their  time  that  they  are  chosen,  which  shall  be  six  months  after 
election.  At  which  meetings  they  shall  consult  of  and  act  what  may  be 
for  the  good  of  the  Plantation,  and  after  they  have  made  such  acts,  and 
that  by  the  major  part  of  as  many  of  them  as  are  present  which  should 
be  seven  at  least,  they  shall  upon  the  next  Lecture  Day  after  Lecture 
read  them  to  the  Company  of  free  men  who  are  to  be  warned  at  present 
to  stay.  And  then  all  acts  and  conclusions  as  shall  not  be  contradicted 
by  the  major  part  of  the  free  men  present,  shall  stand  for  orders  and 
bind  the  plantation  and  every  inhabitant  thereof." 
This  was  followed  on  the  18th  of  October,  1642,  by  another 
order  in  these  words  :  — 
"  June  3,  1642,  there  were  chosen  seven  men  whose  names  are  here 
under  written  :  to  order  the  affairs  of  the  plantation  and  to  have  power 
according  to  the  former  order  as  was  given  to  the  seven  men  then 
being : 
"  October  18,  1642.  Whereas  it  hath  been  observed  divers  times,  in 
our  general  town  meeting,  that  some  confusion  and  disorder  hath  hap- 
pened in  
the  agitation  of  our  public  matters  and  plantation  affairs,  by 
reason  that  men  have  used  their  liberty  to  propound  their  matters  to  the 
plantation  without  any  fore  knowledge  of  the  seven  men,  and  their  mat- 
ters have  been  so  followed  that  divers  things  have  been  spoken  of  and 
few  matters  have  been  issued  by  reason  that  new  matters  have  been 
upstarted  while  a  former  hath  been  in  hearing  and  so  much  time  spent 
and  little  work  done,  and  moreover  the  spirits  of  some  men  troubled  and 
offended  by  reason  that  their  matters  could  not  be  heard,  it  is  therefore 
conclusions.  See  Johnston's  Connecticut,  pp.  61,  75,  135  ;  Andrews's  The  River 
Towns  of  Connecticut,  pp.  29,  122;  also  the  criticism  of  Mr.  Chamberlain  in 
2  Proceedings,  vol.  v.  pp.  269-278. 
 - 221 - 
182  MASSACHUSETTS   HISTORICAL   SOCIETY.  [Jan. 
ordered  by  the  seven  men  that  all  matters  and  questions  which  any  man 
hath  to  be  agitated  aud  petitions  to  be  answered  "by  the  plantation  shall 
first  be  brought  to  the  seven  men  or  to  some  two  or  more  of  them,  and 
by  them  considered  and  orderly  presented  to  the  plantation  who  shall 
follow  the  business,  together  with  the  plantation,  without  any  interrup- 
tion, by  
any  matters  inserted,  to  the  conclusion  and  determination 
thereof.'' 
This  arrangement  seems  to  have  been  in  force  three  years, 
at  the  end  of  which  time  the  records  for  the  24th  of  December, 
1645,  and  for  the  27th  of  January  following,  contain  the  fol- 
lowing remarkable  entries,  nearly  the  whole  of  which  I  have 
transcribed  in  full,  as  they  practically  amount  to  a  written  con- 
stitution, or  
framework  of  town  government,  and  are  accord- 
ingly one  of  the  earliest  efforts  in  that  direction.  As  such 
they  are  interesting  in  themselves,  besides  indicating  clearly 
the  way  in  which  the  New  England  town-meeting  was  then 
developing  upon  original  lines,  following  no  precedents  set  in 
the  old  country. 
"December  24,  1645.  We  the  present  inhabitants  of  Dorchester, 
being  provoked  and  excited  hereunto  by  the  godly  and  religious  request 
of  some  among  us  that  have  laid  to  heart  the  disorders  that  too  often  fall 
out  among  us  and  not  the  least  nor  seldomest  in  our  town  meetings,  and 
the  slighting  of  the  orders  for  the  orderly  carrying  on  of  our  prudential 
business  and  affairs  in  the  town  of  Dorchester  aforesaid  as  also  being 
heartily  sorry  for  and  ashamed  of  the  premises  and  desiring  to  manifest 
the  same  for  the  time  to  come  and  also  according  to  the  charge  that  lies 
upon  us  in  many  respects  to  provide  for  peace  and  the  flourishing  in 
our  own  times  and  in  our  children's,  have  thought  good  upon  mature 
and  deliberate  consideration  to  compose  these  few  lines  Following  as  a 
platform  or  an  abridgment  of  such  orders  which  by  the  blessing  of  God 
both  we  and  our  select  men  from  year  to  year  will  endeavor  to  walk 
in  to  the  honour  of  God  and  Jesus  Christ  whose  name  we  profess. 
Amen. 
"  First  of  all  we  do  bind  ourselves  that  upon  the  first  second  day  of 
the  tenth  month  yearly  about  9  or  10  of  the  clock  we  will  come  together 
warning  being  given  upon  some  lecture  day  (or  other  meeting  before) 
which  shall  be  the  charge  of  the  selectmen  for  the  time  being  to  see  it 
done,  for  these  uses  following,  viz  :  to  elect  seven  or  so  many  of  our 
most  grave  moderate  and  prudent  brethren  as  shall  then  be  thought 
meet  for  the  managing  of  the  prudential  affairs  of  the  town  for  that 
year.  2.  and  also  all  other  officers  as  may  be  useful  for  the  carrying 
on  of  the  town  affairs,  viz  :   Bailiff,  supervisors,  Raters,  &c :  and  that 
 - 222 - 
1892.]  GENESIS   OF  THE   MASSACHUSETTS   TOWN.  183 
all  our  elections  be  by  papers  and  nott  propounded  by  their  predeces- 
sors :  
3.  that  day  to  be  a  day  of  liberty  for  orderly  agitation  fur  the  Re- 
dressing of  
any  grievance  that  may  be  discovered.  4.  or  for  the  adding 
or  detracting  to  or  from  these  Rules  or  anything  concerning  the  whole 
Town  Liberty  and  Power. 
"  Secondly,  we  do  give  [to  the  seven  men]  upon  Confidence  of  their 
careful  and  prudential  improvement  Full  power  and  liberty  of  ordering 
all  our  prudential  affairs  within  the  Town  of  Dorchester,  with  these 
limitations  and  cautions  :  First  that  they  shall  not  meddle  with  the  giv- 
ing or  
disposing  of  any  of  the  Town  land  without  the  consent  and  good 
will  of  the  Town  first  obtained  : 
"  2  neither  shall  they  take  upon  them  to  alter  any  parcel  of  land 
from  the  present  improvement  without  the  consent  of  proprietors  (or 
the  proprietors  shall  do  it  themselves  by  the  major  vote  being  fairly 
proceeded  in,  in  two  or  three  peaceable  agitations  before  the  seven  men. 
"  
Nevertheless  :  we  do  give  them  all  accustomed  liberty  concerning 
common  Lands  in  Fence  also  our  town  lots  that  they  shall  have  power 
to  enjoin  the  several  proprietors  to  make  and  Repair  such  Fence  as  is 
due  unto  them  by  proportion  and  upon  default  therein  to  charge  such 
penalty  upon  them  as  they  see  meet.  Item  that  they  order  the  Ringing 
and  yoking  of  Hogs :  the  keeping  of  our  Cows  in  the  pen  stinting  the 
Cow  walk  barring  the  woods  in  season  and  that  they  carefully  provide 
for  the  safety  of  our  Commons  in  the  wood  and  Timber. 
"  
Thirdly  we  do  Require  that  the  seven'men  shall  faithfully  and  pru- 
dently oversee  all  the  business  of  the  Town  or  between  party  and  party 
that  are  committed  to  them  and  carefully  and  peaceably  issue  them 
seasonably  as  also  that  they  shall  take  care  of  all  inferior  officers  that 
they  discharge  their  places  Faithfully  and  take  accounts  from  them,  and 
thereof  to  make  faithful  and  punctual  Record  in  their  Town  book  ;  that 
so  satisfaction  may  be  given  in  any  Doubt  upon  Demand  as  also  that 
all  Delinquencies  and  mistakes  in  Rates  taxed  upon  the  Town  by  the 
general  Court  or  otherwise  may  be  Discovered  and  Condignly  dealt 
with  ;  as  also  that  the  seven  men  for  the  time  being  do  tenderly  and 
prudently  provide  against  all  such  abuses  [which]  hitherto  have  been 
grievous  aud  justly  offensive  unto  many. 
"  Fourthly  we  require  that  our  seven  men  shall  be  careful  to  meet 
eight  times  in  the  year  viz  the  second  Monday  of  every  month  in  the 
year  except  the  second,  fifth,  sixth  and  eighth  at  some  place  which  shall 
be  certainly  known  unto  all  the  Town  and  there  to  be  Resident  from 
nine  o'clock  in  the  fore  noon  unto  three  o'clock  in  the  afternoon  :  that 
so  all  such  as  have  any  complaints  or  Requests  to  make  or  any  informa- 
tion to  
give  or  anything  whatsoever  to  do  with  them  may  Certainly  find 
all  or  five  of  them  at  the  least  upon  pain  of  os  for  the  first  default  and 
 - 223 - 
184  MASSACHUSETTS  HISTORICAL   SOCIETY.  [Jan. 
also  [of]  displacement  if  good  account  be  not  Rendered  upon  demand, 
and  further  that  they  readily  receive  all  complaints,  Requests  or  infor- 
mations as  
shall  be  [presented]  and  speedily  and  seasonably  apply  them- 
selves to  
their  best  prudence  and  ability  to  issue  all  such  business  in  a 
fair  peaceable  and  quiet  manner,  and  thereof  to  make  a  fair  and  plain 
Record  in  the  Town  book  that  in  case  any  prove  Contentious  and  will 
rot  be  satisfied  there  may  be  a  Testimony  for  the  Wronged  party  and 
we  allow  them  12d  apiece  for  their  dinners  at  the  ordinary  or  else- 
where upon  the  Towne  charge :  also  we  do  give  them  power  to  charge 
the  Town  with  such  sum  or  sums  of  money  from  time  to  time  as  they 
shall  have  need  of  for  the  prudent  and  orderly  managing  of  such  things 
as  fall  out  in  their  times  provided  that  one  Rate  be  not  above  20u  and 
that  they  make  faithful  collection  and  also  disbursement  thereof  to  be 
Recorded  before  another  Rate  be  made  and  we  require  that  all  their 
orders  about  Town  business  be  reasonably  drawn  up  in  writing  and 
published  upon  some  meeting  and  also  fixed  upon  some  observable  place 
that  so  the  offenders  may  have  no  excuse  or  pretence. 
"  Sixthly  for  our  seven  mens  encouragement  we  the  freemen  of  Dor- 
chester do  
agree  that  it  shall  not  be  Lawful  for  any  of  Dorchester 
whosoever  to  slight  either  the  persons  or  orders  of  the  seven  men  for 
the  time  being  but  that  all  their  orders  for  prudential  order  shall  stand 
Ratified  from  the  liberty  afore  given  and  whosoever  shall  offend  in  the 
premises  we  will  Require  it  of  him  as  some  beside  such  penalty  as  his 
offence  shall  deserve. 
"Seventhly  we  the  freemen  of  Dorchester  do  unto  the  premises  assent 
and  agree  and  heartily  and  Truly  by  the  help  of  God  will  endeavor 
the  inviolable  observation  of  the  same  and  for  the  confirmation  of  the 
premises  according  to  our  usual  manner  we  have  solemnly  given  our 
vote  and  also  chosen  and  entreated  our  brother  John  Wiswall  this  24th 
of  the  10th  month  1645  to  Record  the  same  to  be  a  Rule  for  ourselves 
and  successors  except  God  shall  put  into  our  or  their  hearts  some  more 
profitable  and  prudent  way  and  we  do  further  profess  that  we  intend 
no  neglect  or  contempt  of  the  general  Court  or  the  wholesome  Laws 
from  thence  established. 
"January  27th,  1645. 
"  An  order  for  the  ordering  of  our  Town  Meetings. 
"  Forasmuch  as  the  intemperate  Clashings  in  our  Town  meetings  as 
also  the  unorderly  departings  of  sundry  before  other  brethren  and 
Neighbors,  and  the  undigested  and  impertinent  motives  by  divers  di- 
vulged have  been  not  only  grievous  but  Justly  offensive  unto  divers  as 
also  great  occasion  of  mispence  of  precious  time  and  an  hindrance  that 
good  orders  and  other  business  have  not  so  succeeded  as  otherwise  prob- 
 - 224 - 
1892.]  GENESIS   OF   THE   MASSACHUSETTS   TOWN.  185 
ably  they  might  have  done  the  premises  being  taken  into  Consideration 
it  hath  pleased  the  freemen  and  brethren  of  Dorchester  to  commend  the 
Care  of  the  Redress  unto  the  seven  men  for  the  time  being.  These 
are  therefore  to  declare  unto  all  our  loving  Brethren  and  Neighbors 
of  Dorchester  that  according  to  the  care  Commended  unto  us  and  by 
the  authority  conferred  on  us  it  is  ordered  first  that  Whensoever  the 
seven  men  shall  have  occasion  of  the  assemblage  of  the  Town  or  free- 
men and  thereof  shall  give  due  notice  and  Cognizance  unto  them.  And 
we  account  this  to  be  due  notice  viz  :  that  if  it  be  on  a  lecture  day  that  j 
so  many  as  are  present  shall  take  it  for  notice  or  if  it  be  by  sending 
a  special  messenger  from  house  to  house  that  if  notice  be  left  at  the 
house  with  wife  or  child  above  the  age  of  twelve  years  the  husband  or 
father  not  being  within  or  not  at  home  if  he  come  home  before  the  day 
appointed  and  not  repair  to  the  seven  men  or  some  of  them  to  give  in 
his  Excuse  or  appear  upon  the  day  of  meeting  so  many  as  shall  have 
such  notice  and  Cognizance  and  attend  not  nor  give  in  some  valuable 
Excuse  unto  the  seven  men  shall  forfeit  six  pence  for  the  first  offence. 
"  Secondly  when  the  Company  is  assembled  as  aforesaid  it  is  ordered 
that  all  men  shall  attend  unto  what  is  propounded  by  the  seven  men  and 
thereunto  afford  their  best  help  as  shall  be  required  in  due  order  avoid- 
ing all  
Janglings  by  two  or  three  in  several  companies  as  also  to  speak 
unorderly  or  unseasonably  which  nevertheless  is  this  to  be  construed 
that  we  intend  not  the  least  infringement  of  any  brother  or  neighbor's 
liberty  or  any  way  to  suppress  the  abilities  of  any  nor  to  quench  the 
smoking  flax  but  that  all  in  due  time  and  order  may  Communicate  and 
contribute  such  help  as  they  may  have  opportunity  to  do  :  but  only  that 
Confusion  may  be  avoided  and  business  more  orderly  dispatched,  for 
the  ends  before  mentioned  we  the  seven  men  have  appointed  one  of  us 
to  be  our  moderator  to  propound  and  also  to  order  our  meetings  :  And 
that  all  the  assembly  shall  address  and  direct  their  speech  unto  him  and 
shall  be  attentive  unto  the  business  of  the  assembly. 
"  
Thirdly  that  no  motions  be  divulged  or  propounded  but  such  as  the 
seven  men  shall  have  seasonable  knowledge  of  and  they  to  propound 
the  same  which  is  thus  to  be  understood  that  in  case  the  seven  men 
shall  refuse  to  propound  any  man's  motion  the  party  shall  after  some 
Competent  times  of  patience  and  forbearance  have  liberty  to  propound 
his  own  cause  for  hearing  at  some  meeting  provided  all  disturbance  and 
confusion  be  avoided. 
"  Fourthly  that  no  man  shall  depart  the  assembly  without  giving  due 
notice  unto  the  moderator  and  declaring  such  occasion  as  shall  be  ap- 
proved by  
the  seven  men  upon  pain  of  twelve  pence  for  the  first  offence." 
Ill  the  case  of  Dorchester  it  is  unnecessary  to  follow  the  in- 
quiry further.     The  genesis  of  the  town-meeting  there  can  be 
24 
 - 225 - 
186  MASSACHUSETTS   HISTORICAL   SOCIETY.  [Jan. 
traced  in  the  foregoing  extracts  from  the  town  records,  and  is 
found  to  spring  from  the  charter  of  the  colony,  and  to  follow- 
in  all  respects  its  analogies.  As  a  form  of  government  it  was 
developed  step  by  step  to  meet  the  secular  needs  of  the 
community  as  they  made  themselves  felt.  The  plantation  or 
town  was  a  commercial  company,  the  partners  in  which  by 
degrees  were  developed  into  a  political  community. 
The  Dedham  records,  though  less  specific  in  detail  than 
those  of  Dorchester,  are  equally  complete  and  to  the  point.1 
The  General  Court  made  an  order,  on  Sept.  3,  1635,  "  that 
there  shal  be  a  plantation  setled,  aboute  two  myles  above 
the  falls  of  Charles  Ryver";  and  on  the  8th  of  Septem- 
ber, 1636,  it  was  "  Ordered,  that  the  plantation  to  bee  set- 
tled above  the  falls  of  Charles  Ryver  ...  is  to  bee  Deddam, 
to  enjoy  all  that  land  on  the  southerly  and  easterly  side  of 
Charles  Ryver  not  formerly  graunted  to  any  towne,  or  particu- 
lar persons,  and  also  to  have  five  miles  square  on  the  other 
side  of  the  ryver."  The  petition  in  compliance  with  which 
this  order  was  made  bore  the  signatures  of  twenty-two  per- 
sons, who  were  termed  proprietors  ;  and  these  pi'oprietors, 
before  their  petition  was  acted  upon  by  the  General  Court, 
entered  into  an  elaborate  civil  covenant.  No  church  had  then 
been  gathered,  and  the  association  was  in  its  nature  purely 
commercial.  The  records  are  complete.  At  the  first  meeting 
of  the  proprietors,  —  the  General  Court  of  the  town,  —  eigh- 
teen persons  were  present,  all  of  whose  names  were  recorded  ; 
and  thereafter  regular  weekly  meetings  were  held,  of  which  a 
full  and  careful  record  was  kept.  From  time  to  time  the 
original  proprietors  admitted  additional  proprietors  on  pre- 
scribed conditions,  until,  on  the  20th  of  February,  1637,  forty- 
three  persons  were  present  at  a  meeting.  Not  until  the  8th  of 
November,  1638,  more  than  two  years  after  the  civil  incorpor- 
ation, was  a  church  gathered.  The  regular  weekly  meetings 
of  proprietors  continued  to  be  held  until  the  17th  of  May, 
1639,  when  a  vote  was  passed  in  which  it  was  recited  among 
other  things  that,  whereas  it  had  been  found  that  the  proprie- 
tors, in  
holding  these  meetings,  "  have  wasted  much  time  to  noe 
small  damage  and  business  thereby  nothing  furthered,"  it  was 
1  The  Dedham  town  records  have  not  heen  printed.  The  records  of  the  ori- 
ginal church  were  printed  under  a  vote  of  the  town  in  1888,  being  edited  by  Don 
Gleason  Hill. 
 - 226 - 
1892.]  GENESIS   OF   THE   MASSACHUSETTS   TOWN.  187 
determined  to  make  choice  of  seven  men  to  manage  the  affairs 
of  the  plantation.  Thereafter  the  meetings  of  the  proprietors 
were  strictly  like  the  original  meetings  of  the  General  Court 
of  the  colony,  or  like  the  meetings  of  the  stockholders  of  an 
ordinary  corporation  of  later  times.  The  main  business  of  the 
meeting  was  the  election  of  a  smaller  board  to  have  charge  of 
town  affairs,  and  to  those  composing  that  board  the  proprie- 
tors delegated  full  powers.  Not  until  the  second  day  of  Jan- 
uary, 1643,  or  four  years  afterwards,  did  the  general  meeting 
of  proprietors  transact  any  business  other  than  the  election  of 
the  persons  to  take  charge  of  town  affairs,  who  might  prop- 
erly be  
considered  the  executive  committee  of  the  proprietors. 
After  January,  1643,  the  annual  sessions  of  the  proprietors 
became  practically  town-meetings  in  the  proper  and  subse- 
quent acceptance  of  the  term. 
It  would  thus  appear  that  in  Dedham  the  civil  organization 
distinctly  preceded  the  church  organization,  and  was  never 
subordinated  to  it,  or  in  secular  matters  in  any  perceptible  de- 
gree influenced  by  it.  The  line  of  development  of  the  plan- 
tation or  
town  was  that  marked  out  in  the  original  charter  of 
the  colony.  The  proprietors  were  the  General  Court.  The 
seven  men  chosen  annually  to  have  charge  of  town  affairs 
constituted  a  board  with  functions  similar  to  those  of  the 
early  boards  of  magistrates  of  the  colony,  and,  subsequently, 
with  functions  equivalent  to  those  of  both  magistrates  and 
deputies  ;  
but,  in  the  case  of  Dedham,  as  the  constituency 
was  not  too  large  to  meet  in  one  body,  exactly  that  course  was 
pursued  which  it  was  originally  designed  in  the  charter  should 
be  pursued  in  the  case  of  the  colony  itself,  but  which  the  in- 
crease in  
the  numbers  of  the  freemen,  and  their  scattered  resi- 
dence, made  impossible,  —  that  is  the  whole  body  of  proprietors 
or  inhabitants  met  periodically  in  an  assembly,  or  general 
court,  to  dispose  of  the  business  of  the  corporation  which  was 
of  common  concernment.  Under  these  circumstances,  by  a 
natural  process  for  which  no  abstruse  reasons  need  be  sought, 
the  legislative  functions  by  degrees  reverted  to  the  body  of 
the  proprietors,  or  inhabitants,  in  their  general  meetings  as- 
sembled, while  the  executive  functions  were  concentrated  in 
the  hands  of  a  committee,  known  as  the  board  of  selectmen. 
The  evolution  of  the  Dedham  town-meeting,  therefore,  took 
place  out  of  the  peculiar  conditions  of  the  settlement,  all  the 
 - 227 - 
188  MASSACHUSETTS   HISTORICAL   SOCIETY.  [Jan. 
action  taken  being  in  accordance  with  and  subordination  to 
the  precedents  established  in  the  case  of  the  colonial  charter, 
—  it  was  the  general  stockholders'  meeting  of  a  commercial 
association. 
At  the  September  session  of  the  General  Court  of  1635  the 
following  order  was  passed  :  "  The  name  of  Barecove  is 
changed,  and  hereafter  to  be  called  Hingham."  The  Hingham 
church  was  gathered  on  the  18th  of  the  same  month.1 
Certain  leaves  at  the  beginning  of  the  town  records  are 
lost,  and  the  first  volume  is  to  a  large  extent  filled  with  mis- 
cellaneous matters  of  record,  relating  to  allotments,  transfers 
of  real  estate,  etc.,  —  it  is  in  fact  the  book  of  registry  of  a  body 
of  proprietors  referred  to  in  it  as  "Freemen,"  "Townsmen," 
and  "  Inhabitants."  The  earliest  entries  are  of  the  18th  of 
September,  1635,  and  relate  to  allotments,2  varying  from  one 
to  thirty  acres  in  extent,  made  by  "  joynt  consent  of  the  free- 
men," or  "  by  a  joynt  consent  and  general  vote  of  the  Free- 
men." The  scope  and  meaning  of  the  term  "freemen"  in 
this  case  is  to  a  degree  explained  in  the  following  vote  or 
order,  also  of  18th  September,  1635  :  — 
"  It  is  agreed  upon  that  everie  man  that  is  admyted  to  be  Townes 
man,  and  have  lots  graunted  them  shall  beare  charges  both  to  Church 
and  Commonwealth  proportionate  to  their  abilities,  and  in  case  that 
they  sell  their  lots,  they  shall  first  tender  them  to  the  Towne,  and  in 
case  that  the  Towne  shall  refuse  to  give  what  it  shall  be  worth,  or  find 
a  Chapman  to  bye  it,  then  it  shall  be  lawful  for  them  to  sell  it  always 
provided  it  be  a  honest  man  that  shall  be  plassed  into  the  sayd  Lot  or 
Lots." 
At  first  all  action  was  taken  at  meetings  of  the  freemen,  or 
proprietors,  which  meetings  were  held  on  notice,  or  "lawful 
warning"  ;  and  the  penalty  for  non-attendance,  or  "  for  the  not 
staying  with  the  assembly,  being  there  assembled,"  was  "  one 
1  The  Hingham  town  records  have  been  copied,  but  never  printed  ;  those  of 
the  earlier  church  were  retained  in  the  family  of  the  first  pastor,  Peter  Hobart, 
and  never  went  into  the  possession  of  the  parish.  Subsequently  they  came  into 
the  hands  of  Hon.  Solomon  Lincoln,  whose  descendants  gave  access  to  them  for 
the  preparation  of  this  paper. 
2  On  the  fly-leaf  of  the  original  church  records  is  the  following  entry: 
"  September  18th,  1735.  We  find  upon  the  Town  Records  that  this  Day  100 
years  agoe  the  Town  of  Hingham  was  setled,  their  House  Lotts  drawn  and  that 
the  Rev'd  Mr.  Peter  Hobart  was  here  and  drew  a  Lott  with  the  29." 
 - 228 - 
1892.]  GENESIS   OF   THE  MASSACHUSETTS   TOWN.  189 
peck  of  Indian  corne."  This,  the  General  Court  form  of 
government,  seems  to  have  sufficed  and  been  continued  until 
1637,  and  the  orders  and  regulations  made  were  termed  u  Court 
orders."  On  the  23d  of  March,  1637,  the  following  vote  was 
passed  by  the  assembly  of  freemen:  — 
"  These  nine  men  hereafter  mentioned,  being  Freemen  of  the  Town 
be  chosen  and  deputed  by  the  whole  body  of  Freemen  to  agitate  and 
determyne  concerning  any  general  business  within  the  Town,  except  it 
be  the  making  of  any  rate,  unless  they  be  newly  chosen  in  a  legal  way, 
or  receiving  in  of  any  person  to  be  an  inhabitant  into  the  Town." 
Votes  of  a  similar  character  were  passed  subsequently,  that 
of  Jan.  8,  1648,  further  restricting  the  power  of  those  thus 
chosen  by  adding  the  clause,  u  but  these  men  are  prohibited 
giving  lands,  making  of  rates,  and  stinting  the  commons." 
In  December,  1648,  the  term  "general  Town  meeting"  is 
used,  and  in  January  following  the  regular  record  of  such 
meetings  begins,  and  the  term  "selectmen"  first  appears. 
Jan.  1,  1652,  <;  
It  is  ordered  .  .  .  that  the  selectmen  and  Con- 
stables shall  be  chosen  from  year  to  year  by  papers."  In 
the  case  of  Hingham,  also,  the  gradual  development  of  the 
town-meeting,  and  town-meeting  government  through  a  board 
of  selectmen,  out  of  a  body  of  proprietors,  in  strict  accord- 
ance with  the  precedents  established  under  the  charter  of 
the  colony,  is  apparent  and  obvious.  The  court  of  propri- 
etors was  the  body  of  stockholders  in  the  enterprise  or 
company;  the  selectmen  were  the  board  of  directors,  or  ex- 
ecutive committee.  The  church,  and  the  church  officials  and 
members,  as  such,  exercised  no  control  over  corporate  busi- 
ness. Mr.  Hobart's  record  contains  no  references  to  pruden- 
tial affairs. 
Weymouth  ranks  next  to  Plymouth  in  the  order  of  settle- 
ment of  Massachusetts  towns.  Originally  Wessaguscus  or 
Wessagusset,  it  was  made  a  town  at  the  same  time  as  Hing- 
ham (Sept.  3, 1635),  when  the  General  Court  ordered  that  "  the 
name  of  Wessaguscus  is  also  changed,  and  hereafter  to  be 
called  Waymouthe  "  1 
The  incorporation  of  Weymouth  as  a  town  was  peculiar  in 
that  the  previous  settlement  of  Wessagusset,  dating  from  Sep- 
1  The  Weymouth  town  records  have  been  copied,  but  never  printed.  The 
earlier  church  records  have  been  lost.     Nash's  Sketch  of  Weymouth,  p.  8. 
 - 229 - 
190  MASSACHUSETTS   HISTORICAL   SOCIETY.  [Jan. 
tember,  1623,1  was  composed  of  what  were  known  as  "  Old 
Planters,"  2  who,  coming  to  New  England  with  Capt.  Robert 
Gorges,  had  established  themselves  without  any  color  of  legal 
right  within  the  limits  afterwards  assigned  in  the  charter  of 
1629  to  the  colony  of  Massachusetts  Bay.  They  were  there- 
fore interlopers,  possessed  merely  of  what  has  since  been 
vulgarly  known  as  "  squatter  rights."  The  case  of  the  Wes- 
sagusset  settlers  was  unquestionably  covered  by  the  instruc- 
tions to  
Endicott  of  April  17,  1629,  guaranteeing  "  the  old 
planters"  incorporation  into  the  colony,  and  full  enjoyment  of 
the  land  they  had  in  occupancy.3  On  the  8th  of  July,  1635,  by 
the  General  Court,  "there  is  leave  graunted  to  21  familyes  to 
sitt  down  at  Wessaguscus  &c  "  ;  this  was  two  months  before 
the  incorporation  of  the  town.  In  1635-36  bounds  were  es- 
tablished, and  in  1636  the  first  allotment  of  lands  of  which 
there  is  any  record  remaining  was  made  at  a  meeting  of  the 
freemen.4  Presumably  the  rights  of  the  original  settlers  to 
the  land  held  by  them  in  occupancy  were  then  recognized,  as 
John  Bursley,  one  of  the  original  Gorges  settlers,  was  a  dep- 
uty from  the  town  in  the  General  Court  of  1636.  . 
The  formal  record  of  Weymouth  does  not  begin  until  "  De- 
cember, 1641,  although  there  are  a  very  few  items,  evidently 
of  an  earlier  date,  which  are  undoubtedly  transcribed  from 
other  sources  by  a  later  hand,  and  a  mass  of  property  records 
which  are  undated,  but  which,  from  external  and  internal 
evidence,  should  appear  a  year  or  two  later." 
Unlike  Dedham,  therefore,  Weymouth  was  not  settled  as  a 
plantation  by  a  definite  body  of  proprietors,  nor  did  the  town 
organize  itself  as  a  business  company.  On  the  matter  of  or- 
ganization the  Weymouth  records  of  the  earlier  j^ears  are 
vague.  In  1643  reference  is  made  in  them  to  "  the  towns- 
men," six  in  all  and  evidently  the  men  chosen,  as  in  Hingham, 
to  order  the  town's  affairs  ;  and  during  the  same  year  certain 
regulations  relating  to  the  "right  of  common"  and  "common 
pasture  "  were  made  "  by  the  generall  consent  of  the  Towne." 
The  only  light  thrown  on  the  Weymouth  method  of  pro- 
cedure  during   the   first   eleven   years   of    corporate    life    is 
1  Supra,  p.  25. 
2  Proceedings,  vol.  xvi.  pp.  194-206  ;  Memorial  History  of  Boston,  vol.  i. 
chap.  3;  Young's  Chronicles  of  Massachusetts  Bay,  pp.  144-149. 
8  Young's  Chronicles  of  Massachusetts  Bay,  p.  145. 
4  Nash's  Sketch  of  Weymouth,  pp.  26,  280. 
 - 230 - 
1892.]  GENESIS   OF   THE   MASSACHUSETTS   TOWN.  191 
contained  in  the  following  vote  prepared  by  the  townsmen, 
or  selectmen,  under  date  of  April  6,  1646,  and  subsequently 
approved,  and  ordered  to  "  stand  good "  by  "  the  whole 
Towne  "  :  — 
"  
Whereas  we  find  by  sad  experience  the  great  inconvenience  that 
many  times  it  comes  to  pass  by  the  permitting  of  straDgers  to  come 
into  the  plantation  pretending  only  to  sojourne  for  a  season,  but  after- 
wards they  
have  continued  awhile  account  themselves  inhabitants  with 
us,  and  so  challeng  to  themselves  all  such  priveledges  and  immunitys  as 
others  doe  enjoy  who  notwithstanding  are  of  little  use  to  advance  the 
public  good,  but  rather,  many  times  are  troublesome  and  prove  a  bur- 
den to  the  plantation,  the  premises  considered,  together  with  the 
straightness  of  the  place,  the  number  of  the  people,  and  the  smallness 
of  the  trade  we  yet  have  amongst  us,  we  the  townsmen  whose  names  are 
subscribed,  for  the  prevention  of  this  and  the  like  inconvenencyes,  have 
thought  good  to  present  to  consideration  the  insuing  order  to  be  voted 
by  the  whole  Towne  to  stand  in  force  as  long  as  they  in  wisdom  shall 
see  just  cause. 
"First  that  no  inhabitant  within  this  plantation  shall  presume  to 
take  into  his  house  as  an  inmate,  or  servant,  any  person  or  persons,  un- 
less he  
shall  give  sufficient  bonds,  to  defray  the  plantation  of  what  dam- 
age may  ensue  thereuppon,  or  be  as  covenant  servant,  and  that  for  one 
year  at  the  least  without  leave  first  had  or  obtayned  from  the  whole 
Towne  at  some  of  their  public  meetings,  under  the  penalty  of  5  shil- 
lings a  
week  as  long  as  hee  shall  continue  in  the  breach  of  this  order,  to 
be  levied  by  the  constable  or  other  officer,  and  delivered  to  the  towns- 
men for  the  time  beeing,  to  be  improved  for  the  use  and  benefit  of  the 
towne.  Also  it  is  further  agreed  upon  by  and  with  the  consent  of  the 
whole  town,  that  no  person  or  persons  within  this  plantation  shall  lett 
or  sell  any  house,  or  land,  to -any  person  or  persons  that  is  not  an  in- 
habitant amongst  us,  untill  he  hath  first  made  a  tender  of  it  to  the 
Towne,  at  a  trayning  or  some  lecture  day  or  other  public  meeting." 
It  will  be  observed  that  the  town  is  here  spoken  of  as  "  the 
plantation,"  and  jealous  reference  is  made  to  the  "  priveledges 
and  immunitys  "  of  the  "  inhabitants,"  who  were  in  the  custom 
of  transacting  business  of  general  concernment  "  at  a  trayning 
or  some  lecture  day  or  other  public  meeting." 
On  the  26th  of  November,  1651,  at  "  a  meeting  of  the 
Towne,"  eight  "  Townsmen"  were  chosen,  and  "invested  with 
power  for  the  carrying  on  of  the  Towns  affayers  for  the  en- 
suing year"  ;  and  at  the  same  time  the  following  votes  defin- 
ing the  powers  and  duties  of  the  "  selectmen  "  were  passed 
 - 231 - 
192  MASSACHUSETTS   HISTORICAL    SOCIETY.  [Jan. 
and  afterwards  continued  in  force  by  reference  for  over  thirty 
years  :  — 
"The  power  that  the  Towne  of  Waymouth  coinmitteth  into  the 
hands  of  the  Selectmen  for  this  present  year  insuing  1651.  First  — 
Wee  give  them  power  to  make  such  orders  as  may  be  for  the  preserva- 
tion of  
our  intrests  in  lands,  and  corne,  and  Grane,  and  Wood,  and 
Timber,  that  none  may  be  transported  out  of  the  Towns  Commons. 
Secondly  —  They  shall  have  power  to  see  that  all  orders  made  by 
the  General  Court  shalbe  observed,  and  also  all  such  orders  that  are  or 
shalbe  made  which  the  Towne  shall  not  repeale  at  their  meetinge  in 
the  first  month. 
Thirdly  —  It  shalbe  lawfull  for  them  to  take  course  that  dry  cattle 
be  hearded  in  the  woods  except  calves  and  Yearlings  and  that  they 
provide  Bulls  both  for  the  Cowes  and  dry  Cattle. 
Fourthly  —  They  may  issue  out  all  such  Rates  as  the  Towns  occa- 
sions shall  require  and  see  that  they  be  gathred,  that  a  due  account  may 
be  given  of  them. 
Fifthly  —  They  may  satisfy  all  graunts  provided  they  satisfy  them  in 
due  order,  and  not  within  two  miles  of  the  Meeting-house. 
Sixthly  —  Wee  willingly  grant  they  shall  have  their  Dynners  uppon 
the  Towns  charge  when  they  meete  about  the  Towns  affayres. 
Voted  by  the  whole  Towne  26th  of  9  
th  mo'th  [November]  1651." 
One  other  entry  only  from  the  Weymouth  records  seems  to 
have  any  bearing  on  the  matter  now  under  consideration  ;  
but 
this  entry  brings  out  clearly  the  distinction  observed  between 
the  church  and  town  organizations,  —  the  selectmen  and  the 
deacons. 
"The  24th  of  the  10th  mo'th  [Dec]  1657. 
"  At  a  meeting  of  the  20  men  who  were  desired  and  impowered  by 
the  Towne  to  take  care  about  Mr.  Thacher's  mayntenance  that  it  may 
be  payde  both  in  time  and  kind  according  to  our  engagement,  it  was 
ordered  by  them  that  Mr.  Thacher's  Rates  should  be  made  by  the 
Selectmen  from  time  to  time  by  the  first  of  the  first  month  and  the  first 
of  the  second  month  yearly  and  that  the  sayd  Selectmen  shall  see  that 
it  be  payd  in  either  to  Mr.  Thacher  or  the  Deacons  by  the  12th  of  the 
2d  month  and  the  12th  of  the  8th  month  and  in  case  any  shall  neglect 
or  refuse  to  doe  his  duty  herein  to  put  forth  their  power  to  recover  the 
same  according  to  laws  here  established." 
Newtowne  was  ordered  to  be  called  Cambridge  on  the  2d  of 
May,  1638,  but  there  is  no  record  of  the  first  official  recog- 
nition  of  
Newe  Towne   as  a  distinct  municipality.     It  was 
 - 232 - 
1892.]  GENESIS   OF   THE   MASSACHUSETTS   TOWN.  193 
selected  as  "a  fit  place  for  a  fortified  town"  in  December, 
1630. 
The  Cambridge  records1  begin  with  an  entry  in  rela- 
tion to  the  enclosure,  or  paling,  of  certain  lands,  under 
date  of  March  29,  1632.  Those  concerned  in  the  original 
settlement  are  not  described  as  "  planters  "  nor  the  town  as  a 
"plantation,"  but  as  "  the  inhabitants  of  the  New  Town"; 
and  among  the  inhabitants  were  included  all  who  owned 
"  
house  and  land  in  the  town."  In  1664  a  memorial  was  ad- 
dressed to  
the  General  Court  signed  by  nearly  all  "  the  inhab- 
itants and  householders  of  the  towne  "  to  which  the  names  of 
a  number  of  others  were  appended  "  being  of  the  traine  band 
and  singell  men  in  the  above  sayd  town." 
The  space  included  within  the  original  paling  was  divided 
among  forty-two  persons,  and  it  was  further  agreed  "  that  if 
any  man  shall  desire  to  sell  his  part  of  impaled  ground,  he 
shall  first  tender  the  sale  thereof  to  the  town  inhabitants  in- 
terested, who  shall  either  give  him  the  charge  he  hath  been 
at,  or  else  to  have  liberty  to  sell  it  to  whom  he  can."  The 
house  lots  were  laid  out  compactly,  and  land  for  cultivation 
was  assigned  within  the  pale  and  afterwards  elsewhere  ;  the 
grazing  lands  were  not  divided,  but  the  herds  of  cattle  were 
daily  driven  out  to  range  the  common  lands,  and  the  "  cow- 
common  "  remained  undivided  until  a  comparatively  late 
period. 
The  affairs  and  business  of  the  town  were  at  first  managed 
through  regular  monthly  meetings  of  the  inhabitants  held 
"  every  first  Monday  in-  every  month,  within  the  meeting 
house,  in  the  afternoon,  within  half  an  hour  after  the  ringing 
of  the  bell  "  ;  
but  in  January,  1635,  power  was  delegated  to 
a  few  individuals,  at  first  styled  "  Townsmen,"  to  transact 
"the  whole  business  of  the  town,"  and  on  the  3d  of  the 
next  month  the  number  of  townsmen  was  definitely  fixed  at 
seven. 
The  following  regulation  made  the  year  ensuing  (1635)  is 
significant  :  — 
"  Dec.  5,  1636.  Ordered,  That  no  man  inhabiting  or  not  inhabiting 
within  the  bounds  of  the  town  shall  let  or  sell  any  house  or  land  unto 
any,  without  the  consent  of  the  Townsmen  then  in  place,  unless  it  be 
1  The  records  neither  of  the  town  nor  of  the  original  church  of  Cambridge 
have  ever  been  printed. 
25 
 - 233 - 
194  MASSACHUSETTS   HISTORICAL   SOCIETY.  [Jan. 
to  a  member  of  the  congregation  ;  and  lest  any  one  shall  sustain  loss 
thereby,  they  shall  come  and  proffer  the  same  unto  them,  upon  a  day 
of  the  monthly  meeting,  and  at  such  a  rate  as  he  shall  not  sell  or  let  for 
a  lesser  price  unto  any  than  he  offereth  unto  them,  and  to  leave  the  same 
in  their  hands,  in  liking,  until  the  next  meeting  day  in  the  next  month, 
when,  if  they  shall  not  take  it,  paying  the  price  within  some  convenient 
time,  or  provide  him  a  chapman,  he  shall  then  be  free  to  sell  or  let  the 
same  unto  any  other,  provided  the  Townsmen  think  them  fit  to  be  re- 
ceived in. 
"  Ordered,  That  whosoever  entertains  any  stranger  into  the  town,  if  the 
congregation  desire  it,  
he  shall  set  the  town  free  of  them  again  within 
one  month  after  warning  given  them,  or  else  he  shall  pay  19s.  8d.  unto 
the  townsmen  as  a  fine  for  his  default,  and  as  much  for  every  month 
they  shall  there  remain." 
It  was  ordered  by  the  Court  of  Assistants  on  the  7th  of  Sep- 
tember, 1630,  "  that  Trimountaine  shalbe  called  Boston  "  ;  
but 
the  Boston  town  records  do  not  begin  until  four  years  later, 
the  first  entry  in  them  being  of  Sept.  1,  1634.  Owing  prob- 
ably to  the  circumstances  under  which  it  was  settled  and 
the  large  number  of  original  inhabitants,  Boston  seems  from 
the  first  to  have  developed  on  political  rather  than  on  corpo- 
rate or  commercial  lines.  The  descriptive  words  "  plantation  " 
and  "  planters  "  are  not  used  in  its  records  ;  
but  in  place  of 
them  the  words  used  are  "  the  towne  "  and  "  the  inhabitants 
of  the  towne."  In  the  form  of  government  the  analogy  of  the 
charter  seems  to  have  been  followed,  —  a  board  of  ten  men,  to 
whom  was  entrusted  the  whole  management  of  town  affairs, 
being  chosen  "  at  a  general  meeting  upon  public  notice."  The 
general  meetings  were  composed  of  those  to  whom  allotments 
were  originally  or  afterwards  made,  and  such  as  were  for- 
mally admitted  to  be  inhabitants  ;  for  as  early  as  Nov.  30, 
1635,  it  was  agreed  at  a  general  meeting  "  that  no  further 
allotments  shalbe  graunted  unto  any  new  comers,  but  such  as 
may  be  likely  to  be  received  members  of  the  congregation," 
and  "  that  none  shall  sell  their  houses  or  allotments  to  any 
new  comers,  but  with  the  consent  and  allowance  of  those  that 
are  appointed  Allotters."  This  vote  was  in  the  nature  of  in- 
structions binding  on  "  the  10  to  manage  the  affaires  of  the 
towne,"  who  again  in  1640  declared  it  "  not  proper  to  allowe 
a  man  an  Inhabitant  Without  habitation"  (p.  51),  meaning 
thereby  "  an  house,  or  land  to  sett  an  house  upon."     In  1646 
 - 234 - 
1892.]  GENESIS   OF   THE  MASSACHUSETTS   TOWN.  195 
it  was  further  voted  "  at  a  Generall  townes  meeting  upon 
lawfull  warninge  of  all  the  freemen"  that  aall  the  Inhabitants 
shall  have  equall  Right  of  Commonage  in  the  tovvne  ;  those 
who  are  admitted  by  the  townsmen  to  be  inhabitants  "   ;  those 
admitted  to  be  inhabitants  after  the  passing  of  this  vote  were 
to  have  no  rights  of  commonage  except  by  hire,  and  those 
entitled  to  commonage  were  forbidden  to  sell  their  rights. 
Through  these  and  the  subsequent  years  new-comers  were 
continually  admitted  by  the  townsmen,  or  selectmen,  to  be 
inhabitants  or,  later  on,  townsmen  ;  but  frequent  orders  were 
passed  forbidding  those  inhabiting  the  town  from  entertaining 
strangers  "  from  any  other  towne  or  Countrye  as  a  sojourner  or 
inmate  with  an  intent  to  reside  here,"  and  these  orclers  were 
more  or  less  enforced. 
The  general  town-meetings  of  the  freemen  or  of  "  all  the 
Inhabitants  "  were  held  on  public  notice  or  warning  from 
house  to  house;  and  until  the  year  1649  these  meetings  con- 
fined themselves  as  a  rule  to  the  election  of  an  executive  com- 
mittee first  referred  to  as  "  select  Townsmen,"  in  July,  1643, 
and  as  "  the  selectmen  "  in  the  following  August  ;  and  this 
committee  or  board  had  conferred  upon  it  full  power  in  all 
town  business  "  excepting  matters  of  Election  for  the  Generall 
Corte."  In  1649  the  town-meetings  assumed  legislative  func- 
tions, and  two  years  later,  on  the  14th  of  January,  1653,  the 
records  of  Boston  town-meetings  in  the  eighteenth-century 
meaning  of  the  term  definitely  began. 
In  the  case  of  Boston,  therefore,  doubtless  under  the  guid- 
ance of  
Winthrop,  the  town  government  was  developed,  or  more 
correctly, —  as  was  Winthrop's  well-known  wont,1  —  developed 
itself  under  the  influence  of  circumstances,  in  exact  accordance 
with  the  government  of  the  colony.  The  town-meeting  was 
the  general  court  of  the  inhabitants  of  the  town,  who  here  as 
in  the  other  towns  and  plantations  were  analogous  to  the  stock- 
holders of a  corporation,  and  as  such  exercised  a  jealous  super- 
vision over  intruders  and  those  seeking  to  participate  in  the 
1  "  Such  laws  would  be  fittest  for  us  which  would  arise  pro  re  nata  upon  occa- 
sions, &c."  To  enact  a  code  of  laws  "  would  professedly  transgress  the  limits  of 
our  charter,  .  .  .  
but  to  raise  up  laws  by  practice  and  custom  had  been  no  transgres- 
sion." The  gradual  process  through  which  Massachusetts'  political  institutions, 
including  town  government,  developed  from  the  charter  germs  amid  surround- 
ing conditions,  is  perfectly  described  in  the  foregoing  language  from  Winthrop's 
History  (vol.  ii.  p.  323). 
 - 235 - 
196  MASSACHUSETTS   HISTORICAL  SOCIETY.  [Jan. 
common  rights.  This  general  court,  or  meeting,  chose  a  com- 
mittee to  
attend  to  the  business  affairs  of  the  town,  who  in  time 
became  its  executive  officers  or  magistrates,  under  the  title  of 
selectmen. 
None  the  less  it  is  obvious  that  in  the  case  of  Boston,  owing 
to  the  large  number  of  those  from  the  beginning  inhabiting 
there,  the  analogy  of  the  charter  was  followed  so  closely  that 
the  original  body,  delegated  "  to  manage  the  affaires  of  the 
towne,"  was  clearly  designed  to  hold  a  position  corresponding 
to  the  charter  court  of  assistants,  being  in  size  one  half  of  that 
body.  It  was  in  fact  intended  to  be  a  city  council  ;  
but,  most 
fortunately,  the  course  of  events  and  the  natural  development 
of  other  towns  forced  Boston  into  line,  and  the  town-meeting 
and  board  of  selectmen  were  in  due  time  evolved  there  as  well 
as  elsewhere.  Representative  city  government,  as  a  political 
experiment  in  Massachusetts,  was  thus  deferred  for  one  hundred 
and  seventy  years. 
The  following  conclusions  may  safely  be  drawn  from  the 
original  records  above  referred  to  :  — 
1st.  The  Massachusetts  town  government  was  of  purely  sec- 
ular origin,  and  had  no  connection  with  the  church  organiza- 
tion, except  that  certain  members  of  the  church  were  freemen 
and  inhabitants  of  the  town,  and  the  town  was  under  legal 
obligations  to  maintain  the  church. 
2d.  The  basis  of  the  town  organization  was  the  joint  interest 
of  individuals,  commonly  termed  freemen  or  inhabitants,  but 
sometimes  planters,  in  a  tract  of  land  referred  to  indifferently 
as  a  town  and  as  a  plantation  ;  and  these  inhabitants  were  in 
the  nature  of  stockholders  in  a  modern  corporation.  As  such 
they  exercised  a  jealous  oversight  over  the  admission  into  the 
enterprise  of  new  inhabitants,  proprietors  or  stockholders. 
3d.  In  the  original  establishment  of  the  town  governments 
and  their  progressive  development  to  meet  the  increasing  re- 
quirements ofa  growing  community  the  analogy  of  the  charter 
was  closely  followed.  The  body  of  freemen  or  inhabitants 
constituted  the  General  Court  of  the  town,  subsequently  called 
the  general  town-meeting  ;  and  the  townsmen,  later  on  the 
selectmen,  were  the  board  of  assistants,  or,  as  they  would  now 
be  called,  directors. 
4th.  As  development  went  on  and  increased  differentiation 
took  place,  the  original  legal  lines  were  strictly  followed.   The 
 - 236 - 
1892.]  GENESIS   OF   THE   MASSACHUSETTS   TOWN.  197 
secular  and  the  religious  organizations  separated  more  and 
more  as  new  functions  were  from  time  to  time  imposed  on  the 
former  ;  while  the  latter  had  already,  at  the  very  beginning, 
attained  complete  development. 
In  other  words,  so  far  as  government  was  concerned,  the 
first  immigrants  brought  over  with  them,  together  with  their 
language  and  their  political  and  social  habits  and  traditions, 
the  church  and  the  charter  of  1629.  In  the  church  the  reli- 
gious organization  and  spiritual  government  can  be  studied  ;  
but 
to  understand  the  political  and  legal  development  it  is  neces- 
sary to  consult  the  charter.  Time  spent  in  going  behind  that 
and  delving  into  parallel  or  analogous  usages  and  forms,  whether 
contemporaneous  or  primitive,  cannot  be  said  to  be  wrasted, 
for  all  faithful  study  of  that  character  is  of  value  ;  but  the 
results  reached  by  means  of  it  will  incur  great  danger  of 
proving  fallacious  unless  the  investigation  is  carried  on  with 
the   charter  and  its  provisions  constantly  in  mind.1 
What  then  was  King  Charles's  charter  of  1629?  Treated 
and  developed  almost  from  the  first  by  those  to  whom  it  was 
granted  as  a  frame  of  political  government,  it  has  left  its  im- 
press deep  on  Massachusetts  and  American  polity  ;  but,  in 
point  of  fact  and  legal  acceptation,  it  merely  brought  into 
being  an  English  commercial  organization,  —  in  other  and 
modern  words,  it  was  a  seventeenth-century  act  of  incorpora- 
tion, and,  as  such,  in  no  respect  peculiar.  It  was  an  incor- 
poration ofa  similar  character  to  that  of  the  East  India  Company 
which  preceded  it  in  1600,  and  to  those  of  the  Hudson  Bay 
and  Bank  of  England  companies  which  followed  it  in  1670 
and  1694.  It  was  a  trading  company  in  which  provision  was 
made  for  the  establishment  and,  incidentally,  for  the  govern- 
ment, of a  plantation  in  an  uninhabited  land  ;  and  this  trad- 
ing enterprise,  involving  a  real  estate  speculation,  resulted 
in  a  Commonwealth.2     Twenty-six  original  corporators  were 
1  On  this  point  see  the  language,  similar  to  that  in  the  text,  of  Mr.  Goodell  in 
2  Proceedings,  vol.  v.  p.  323. 
2  The  best  and,  upon  the  whole,  the  most  comprehensive  statement  of  what 
the  founders  of  Massachusetts  originally  proposed  and  what  subsequently,  as  oc- 
casion developed,  they  actually  did,  is,  perhaps,  that  contained  in  Lowell's  paper 
entitled  "  New  England  Two  Centuries  ago."  (Among  my  Books,  pp.  228-290.)  In 
this  paper  he  says,  speaking  of  Winthrop  and  the  charter  associates  :  "  And  they 
were  business  men,  men  of  facts  and  figures  no  less  than  of  religious  earnestness. 
The  sum  of  two  hundred  thousand  pounds  had  been  invested  in  their  undertaking, 
—  a  sum  for  that  time  truly  enormous,  as  the  result  of  private  combination  for 
 - 237 - 
198  MASSACHUSETTS    HISTORICAL   SOCIETY.  [Jan. 
specified  by  name,  and  they  were  empowered  to  elect  or  admit 
others  without  limit  into  their  number  as  freemen,  or,  in 
modern  language,  stockholders  in  the  company;  and  careful 
provision,  as  was  customary  in  such  cases,  was  made  for  the 
management  of  the  company's  affairs  through  the  election  of 
a  governor,  as  the  chief  executive  of  the  seventeenth-century 
commercial  company  was  designated,  and  a  board  of  assistants, 
as  the  directors  were  called,  by  the  body  of  the  freemen  of 
the  corporation  assembled  at  stated  times  in  stockholders' 
meeting,  termed  their  "  Great  and  General  Court."  As  re- 
spects power  to  make  laws,  ordinances,  etc.,  for  the  govern- 
ment of  the  proposed  plantation,  the  provisions  of  the 
charter  were  those  usually  allowed  to  corporations  in 
England.1 
a  doubtful  experiment.  That  their  enterprise  might  succeed,  they  must  show  a 
balance  on  the  right  side  of  the  counting-house  ledger."  Then,  referring  to  the 
unanticipated  outcome  of  this  commercial  undertaking  in  the  founding  of  a  demo- 
cratic political  community,  he  adds  :  "  Sober,  earnest,  and  thoughtful  men,  it 
was  no  Utopia,  no  New  Atlantis,  no  realization  of  a  splendid  dream,  which  they 
had  at  heart,  but  the  establishment  of  the  divine  principle  of  Authority  on  the 
common  interest  and  common  consent  ;  the  making,  by  a  contribution  from  the 
free-will  of  all,  a  power  which  should  curb  and  guide  the  free-will  of  each  for  the 
general  good." 
1  The  similarity  of  this  to  other  business  charters  granted  by  the  English 
crown  in  the  seventeenth  century  is  seen  in  the  terms  and  phrases  common  to 
them  all  ;  and  the  precise  language  used  by  Mill  (History  of  British  India,  vol.  i. 
p.  24)  in  speaking  of  the  first  charter  of  the  East  India  Company,  which  passed 
the  seals  Dec.  31,  1600,  might  be  used  mutatis  mutandis  of  the  Massachusetts  Bay 
charter  :  "  This  charter  —  the  origin  of  a  power  so  anomalous  and  important  as 
that  which  was  afterwards  accumulated  in  the  hands  of  the  East  India  Company 
—  contained  nothing  which  remarkably  distinguished  it  from  the  other  charters 
of  incorporation,  so  commonly  in  that  age  bestowed  upon  trading  associations. 
It  constituted  the  adventurers  a  body  politic  and  corporate  by  the  name  of '  
the 
Governor  and  Company  of  Merchants  of  London,  trading  to  the  East  Indies,' 
and  vested  them  with  the  usual  privileges  and  powers." 
In  the  case  of  the  Bank  of  England  (1694)  "  the  management  and  government 
of  the  corporation  [is]  committed  to  the  governor  and  twenty-four  directors  .  .  . 
thirteen  or  more  of  the  said  governors  and  directors  (of  which  the  governor  or 
deputy-governor  must  be  always  one)  shall  constitute  a  court  of  directors,  for  the 
management  of  the  affairs  of  the  company  .  .  .  four  general  courts  shall  be 
held  in  every  year.  .  .  .  The  majority  of  electors  in  general  courts  have  the  power 
to  make  and  constitute  by-laws  and  ordinances  for  the  government  of  the  cor- 
poration, provided  that  such  by-laws  and  ordinances  be  not  repugnant  to  the 
laws  of  the  Kingdom." 
So  also  in  the  charter  of  the  Hudson's  Bay  Company,  granted  in  1670,  Prince 
Rupert  and  some  seventeen  others  were  created  a  body  corporate  under  the  name 
of  "  The  Governor  and  Company  of  Adventurers  of  England  trading  into  Hud- 
son's Bay."  Those  thus  named  were  empowered  to  elect  seven  of  their  num- 
ber to  be  "  called  the  Committee  of  the  said  Company."    The  governor  and 
 - 238 - 
1892.]  GENESIS   OF   THE   MASSACHUSETTS   TOWN.  199 
This  act  of  commercial  incorporation  was  almost  immedi- 
ately converted  into  something  very  like  a  civil  constitution  ; 
and  under  its  provisions,  always  most  liberally  construed  and 
not  infrequently  ignored,  colonial  Massachusetts  developed. 
But  the  one  point  to  be  emphasized  here  is  the  machinery  of 
government  provided  in  the  charter,  and  through  it  established 
in  Massachusetts.  That  machinery  was  in  its  character  neither 
religious  nor  political,  —  it  did  not  originate  in  either  the 
church  or  the  congregation  on  the  one  side,  or  the  feudal  sys- 
tem of  
state  on  the  other  ;  it  brought  with  it  the  traditions 
and  usages  of  neither.  The  corporation  was  purely  a  com- 
mercial partnership,  and  its  business  organization  was  in  strict 
accordance  with  its  objects  ;  that  organization  consisted  of 
a  body  of  stockholders,  called  freemen,  who  met  periodically 
in  stockholders'  meeting,  or  general  court,  and  elected  a  gov- 
ernor and  a  board  of  directors,  designated  as  assistants.  Noth- 
ing could  be  more  simple  or  more  familiar.  There  seems  no 
room  for  historical  disquisition. 
The  charter  was  then  brought  to  America  ;  but  even  before 
it  reached  America  there  is  reason  to  suppose  that  a  general 
assembly  of  planters  or  proprietors  summoned  by  formal  no- 
tice —  the  first  Massachusetts  town-meeting  —  had  been  held 
at  Salem,  and  held  also  under  the  provisions  of  the  charter. 
There  is  no  regular  record  of  this  meeting  ;  but  in  his  "  New 
English  Canaan"  Thomas  Morton  says:  — 
"This  man  [Governor  Endicott]  thinking  none  so  worthy  as  hira- 
selfe,  took  upon  him  infinitely  :  and  made  warrants  in  his  owne  name, 
(without  relation  to  his  Majesties  authority  in  that  place,)  and  sum- 
moned a  
generall  apparance  at  the  worshipful  town  of  Salem  :  there  in 
company  "  at  any  public  assembly,  commonly  called  the  Court  General,"  might 
elect  a  deputy,  etc.,  make  laws,  ordinances,  etc.,  for  the  good  government  of  their 
territory;  impose  penalties  and  punishments,  provided  the  same  were  reasonable, 
and  not  repugnant  to  the  laws  of  England.  Finally,  "  at  any  court  held  for  the 
said  company,  the  Governor  or  his  Deputy  being  one,"  any  such  persons  as  were 
deemed  fit  could  be  admitted  into  the  company.  The  provisions  of  this  charter 
are  almost  identical  with  those  of  the  Massachusetts  Bay  charter  granted  forty- 
one  years  earlier. 
So  long  as  the  chief  executive  of  Massachusetts  bears  the  title  of  "  
Governor" 
and  the  legislature  is  known  as  the  "  General  Court,"  the  origin  of  the  state  in  the 
English  commercial  company  of  the  seventeenth  century  is  stamped  upon  it,  and 
calls  for  no  discussion.  The  subject  is  fully  treated  by  Charles  Deane  in  a  paper 
in  the  Proceedings  of  the  Massachusetts  Historical  Society,  1869-1870,  pp.  165- 
196,  and  by  Mr.  Brooks  Adams  in  his  "  Emancipation  of  Massachusetts," 
pp.  9-22. 
 - 239 - 
200  MASSACHUSETTS  HISTORICAL  SOCIETY.  [Jan. 
open  assembly  was  tendered  certain  Articles,  devised  between  him  and 
their  new  Pastor  Master  Eager,  (that  had  renounced  his  old  calling  to 
the  Ministry  receaved  in  England,  by  warrant  of  Gods  word,  and  taken 
a  new  one  there,  by  their  fautasticall  way  imposed,  and  conferred  upon 
him  with  some  speciall  guifts  had  out  of  Phaos  boxe.) 
"  To  these  Articles  every  Planter,  old  and  new,  must  signe,  or  be 
expelled  from  any  manner  of  aboade  within  the  Compas  of  the  Land 
contained  within  that  graunt  then  shewed  :  which  was  so  large  it  would 
suffice  for  Elbow  roome  for  more  then  were  in  all  the  Land  by  700000, 
such  an  army  might  have  planted  them  a  Colony  with  [in]  that  cirquit 
which  hee  challenged,  and  not  contend  for  roome  for  their  Cattell.  But 
for  all  that,  hee  that  should  refuse  to  subscribe,  must  pack. 
"  The  tenor  of  the  Articles  were  these  :  That  in  all  causes,  as  well 
Ecclesiastical  as  Politicall,  wee  should  follow  the  rule  of  Gods  word. 
"  This  made  a  shew  of  a  good  intent,  and  all  the  assembly,  (onely  mine 
Host  replyed,)  did  subscribe:  hee  would  not,  unlesse  they  would  ad 
this  Caution  :  So  as  nothing  be  done  contrary  or  repugnant  to  the 
Lawes  of  the  Kingdome  of  England.  These  words  hee  knew,  by  for- 
mer experience,  were  necessary,  and  without  these  the  same  would 
prove  a  very  mousetrapp  to  catch  some  body  by  his  owne  consent, 
(which  the  rest  nothing  suspected,)  for  the  construction  of  the  words 
would  be  made  by  them  of  the  Separation  to  serve  their  owne  turnes  : 
and  if  any  man  should,  in  such  a  case,  be  accused  of  a  crime,  (though 
in  it  selfe  it  were  petty,)  they  might  set  it  on  the  tenter  hookes  of  their 
imaginary  gifts,  and  stretch  it  to  make  it  seeme  cappitall  ;  which  was  the 
reason  why  mine  Host  refused  to  subscribe. 
"  It  was  then  agreed  upon  that  there  should  be  one  generall  trade  used 
within  that  Patent,  (as  hee  said, )  
and  a  generall  stock  :  and  every  man 
to  put  in  a  parte  :  and  every  man,  for  his  person,  to  have  shares  alike  : 
and  for  their  stock,  according  to  the  ratable  proportion  was  put  in:  and 
this  to  continue  for  12.  moneths,  and  them  to  call  an  accompt."  1 
The  old  planters  referred  to  in  the  above  extract  were  the 
original  settlers,  supposed  to  be  some  thirty  or  forty  in  num- 
ber, scattered  along  the  shore  of  Massachusetts  Bay  from  Cape 
Ann  to  Nantasket  ;  and  in  dealing  with  these  men,  who  looked 
upon  the  Massachusetts  Bay  Company  with  great  jealousy,  and 
were  disposed  to  feel  aggrieved  at  its  action,  the  commercial 
side  of  the  enterprise  came  to  the  front.2  So,  also,  at  the  first 
Great  and  General  Court,  held  in  England  on  the  13th  of 
May,  1629,  and  at  all  the  meetings  of  assistants,  the  order  of 
1  New  English  Canaan,  book  iii.  chap.  xxi. 
2  Craddock  to  Endicott  :  Young's  Chronicles  of  Massachusetts  Bay,  pp.  146, 
148-150. 
 - 240 - 
1892.]  GENESIS   OF   THE  MASSACHUSETTS   TOWN.  201 
proceedings  and  the  measures  taken  were  purely  those  of  the 
stockholders  and  board  of  directors  of  a  commercial  enterprise. 
The  officers  of  the  company  were  elected,  and  provision  made 
for  the  "  allotment  of  land  to  these  persons  as  are  adventurers 
in  the  common  stock  "  ;  regulations  of  trade  were  devised,  and 
prospective  profits  divided  among  those  concerned,  —  adven- 
turers or  stockholders,  and  planters. 
Thus,  throughout,  the  company  was  commercial,  and  its 
machinery  of  government  was  that  of  an  ordinary  business 
corporation.  It  is  unnecessary  to  recapitulate  further  the 
accepted  and  familiar  facts  of  Massachusetts  history;1  but, 
coming  now  to  the  organization  of  the  Massachusetts  towns 
and  the  gradual  development  of  town-government,  it  is  clear, 
from  the  original  records  cited  in  this  paper,  that  when  the 
process  of  growth  and  differentiation  began  the  usual  natural 
law  asserted  itself,  and  the  progeny  followed  the  species  of 
the  parent.2  The  colony  was  in  its  charter  termed  a  "planta- 
tion ";  and  now  the  towns  were  subordinate  plantations,  and 
so  called.3  Those  who  settled  in  the  localities  created  into 
towns  or  townships  were  the  planters,  the  proprietors,'  and 
the  inhabitants.  In  other  words,  they  were  the  beneficiaries 
or  stockholders  in  an  incorporated  business  enterprise;  and 
they  acted  always  in  strict  accordance  with  this  legal  position. 
1  The  successive  legislative  steps  through  which  the  town  system  was  devel- 
oped in  
both  the  Plymouth  and  the  Massachusetts  Bay  colonies  are  set  forth  in 
detail  in  Professor's  Parker's  paper  entitled  "  The  Origin,  Organization,  and  Influ- 
ence of  
the  Towns  of  New  England/'  in  the  Proceedings  of  the  Massachusetts 
Historical  Society  for  January,  1866.  In  this  paper  Professor  Parker  touches  only 
incidentally  (pp.  19-20)  on  the  genetic  sources  of  the  town  organization,  reaching 
the  conclusion  that  "  a  careful  examination  .  .  .  will  show  that  [the  towns]  were 
not  founded  or  modelled  on  precedent." 
2  "  The  town  was  not  the  primordial  cell  which  developed  into  a  State,  but 
the  State  was  the  mother  of  her  towns.  Development  is  along  the  lines  of 
original  constitutions,  and  seldom  or  never  passes  over  into  a  different  genus." 
(Mellen  Chamberlain  in  2  Proceedings,  vol.  v.  p.  276.) 
3  Referring  to  the  earliest  years  of  the  settlement,  Chief  Justice  Shaw  says 
(Comm.  v.  Roxbury,  9  Gray,  485)  :  "  The  terms  '  
plantation,'  '  
town,'  and  'town- 
ship '  
seem  to  be  used  almost  indiscriminately  to  indicate  a  cluster  or  body  of  per- 
sons inhabiting  near  each  other;  and  when  they  became  designated  by  name, 
certain  powers  were  conferred  upon  them  by  general  order  and  laws,  such  as  to 
manage  their  own  prudential  concerns,  to  elect  deputies  and  the  like,  which  in 
effect  made  them  municipal  corporations  ;  and  no  formal  acts  of  incorporation 
were  granted  until  long  afterwards,"  —  not  until  1785  (Ibid.  511).  On  this 
subject  see  also  Professor  Parker's  paper  in  the  Proceedings  for  January,  1866, 
pp.  17,  18. 
26 
 - 241 - 
202  MASSACHUSETTS   HISTORICAL   SOCIETY.  [Jan. 
The  course  pursued  appears  in  every  record  ;  and,  in  essen- 
tials, it  
is  always  the  same.  There  is  a  recognized  body  of 
settlers,  and  to  the. individuals  composing  that  body  allotments 
are  made  ;  those  receiving  the  allotments  are  the  inhabitants, 
and  either  the  inhabitants  or  the  freemen,  as  a  body,  made  up 
the  court,  or  town-meeting;  and  the  court,  or  town-meeting, 
either  governed  itself,  as  in  the  case  of  Dorchester,  Dedham, 
and  Cambridge  during  the  earliest  period,  or  delegated  its 
powers  to  a  board  of  assistants,  or  townsmen,  as  in  the  case  of 
Boston.  Invariably  the  inhabitants,  or  stockholders,  evinced 
the  utmost  jealousy  as  to  the  admission  of  new  inhabitants 
to  share  their  corporate  privileges,  placing  rigid  restrictions 
upon  it.1 
As  the  process  of  development  went  on,  new  political  func- 
tions were  imposed  on  the  towns,  just  as  from  the  beginning 
they  had  forced  themselves  on  the  organization  of  the  original 
colony.2     As  those  functions  were  imposed,  corresponding  offi- 
1  The  regulations  and  orders  restricting  the  coming  in  of  new  inhabitants,  found 
in  the  early  records  of  almost  all  the  Massachusetts  towns  during  the  colonial 
period  (1630-91),  open  a  wide  field  of  historical  investigation.  While  in  this 
particular  case  they  can  be  referred  to  the  corporate,  or  stockholder,  interest  at 
the  basis  of  the  organization,  restrictions  of  a  similar  character  can  be  traced 
through  the  earlier  English  history  ;  
and  Bishop  Stubbs  says  (History  of  England, 
chap.  iii.  §  
24),  speaking  of  the  assembly  under  the  Germanic  mark  system,  "  with- 
out its  consent  no  man  may  settle  in  the  territory,  build  himself  a  house,  or  pur- 
chase the  share  of  another  "  ;  and  under  the  provisions  of  the  Salian  law,  "  do 
settler  is  allowed  to  take  up  his  dwelling  in  the  vill,  without  the  express  per- 
mission of  
the  community"  (Ibid.  §  
25). 
The  desire  for  the  exclusive  possession  of  good  things  is  not  peculiar  to  man; 
and  the  origin  of  these  restrictions  would  probably  have  to  be  looked  for,  not  in 
the  records  of  early  human  institutions,  but  in  the  animal  instincts.  In  this  con- 
nection Herbert  Spencer  says  (Principles  of  Sociology,  §  292)  :  "  It  is  true  that 
the  idea  of  tribal  ownership  of  territory  may  be  compared  to  that  of  many  ani- 
mals, which  drive  trespassers  away  from  their  lairs  or  habitats  ;  even  the  swans 
on  each  reach  of  the  Thames  resist  invading  swans  from  other  reaches,  and  the 
public  dogs  in  each  quarter  of  Constantinople  attack  dogs  from  other  quarters  if 
they  encroach.  .  .  .  Indeed,  the  very  idea  of  prospective  advantage  which  leads 
an  intelligent  being  to  take  possession  of  or  to  make  any  useful  thing,  is  an  idea 
which  leads  him  to  resist  the  abstraction  of  it." 
Restrictions  imposed  by  any  given  community  on  the  coming  in  of  new  in- 
habitants are,  therefore,  merely  a  manifestation  of  an  inherent  instinct,  and 
traces  of  it  would  be  found  in  all  human  codes  from  that  of  China  to  that  of 
Massachusetts. 
2  It  is  unnecessary  for  the  purposes  of  this  paper  to  quote,  or  even  to  refer  in 
detail  to,  the  series  of  acts  of  the  General  Court  conferring  and  regulating  town 
bounds  and  powers.  See  the  paper  of  Professor  Parker  already  referred  to  (supra, 
p.  201,  note  1),  and  the  elaborate  note  by  the  reporter,  Horace  Gray,  to  the  case 
of  Commonwealth  v.  Roxbury  (9  Gray,  460). 
 - 242 - 
1892.]  GENESIS   OF   THE   MASSACHUSETTS   TOWN.  203 
cial  positions  were  created,  —  constables,  selectmen,  ti thing- 
men,  way- wardens,  etc.  Naturally,  men  like  Winthrop  and 
the  others  who  guided  legislation  bestowed  on  many  of  the 
classes  of  officials  thus  created  the  designations  or  titles  fa- 
miliar in  
English  experience,  as  belonging  to  those  who  had 
similar  duties  to  perform  in  England.  This  similarity  has 
since  suggested  derivation  ;  and  accordingly  the  origin  of  the 
Massachusetts  town  has  been  traced  to  the  English  vestry.1 
Thus  in  early  Massachusetts  there  were  three  distinct  classes, 
the  political  and  legal  standing  and  relations  of  which  have 
been,  and  still  are,  more  or  less  confounded.  These  three 
classes  were  (1)  the  freemen  of  the  colony,  (2)  the  members 
of  the  ecclesiastical  organization,  and  (3)  the  inhabitants  of 
the  towns.  The  freemen  of  the  colony  were  the  body  of 
electors,  —  those  entitled  under  the  terms  of  the  charter,  and 
the  colonial  laws  made  in  pursuance  thereof,  to  vote  in  charter 
elections  and  to  hold  charter  offices.  They  were  a  minority 
only,  and  a  small  minority,  of  the  members  of  the  congrega- 
tions or  
the  inhabitants  of  the  towns.  The  members  of  the 
congregations  were  the  great  body  of  men,  women,  and  chil- 
1  The  marked  analogy  between  the  English  vestry  and  the  New  England 
town-meeting  is  very  clearly  brought  out  in  Professor  Channing's  paper  entitled 
"  Town  and  County  Government  in  the  English  Colonies  of  North  America," 
printed  in  vol.  ii.  of  the  "  Johns  Hopkins  University  Studies."  Referring  to  the 
fact  that  New  England  and  Virginia  dominated  the  continent,  Professor  Chan- 
ning  says  that  the  political  education  of  the  founders  of  these  colonies  "  was  ac- 
quired at  the  town  council,  the  county  court,  and  the  parish  meeting."  Speaking 
generally,  this  is  unquestionably  true  ;  as  it  is  also  true  that  the  parish  meeting, 
or  vestry,  bore  a  close  resemblance  to  the  Massachusetts  town-meeting.  Both 
were  gatherings  of  inhabitants,  who  chose  officers,  —  constables,  waymen,  and 
the  like,  —  bearing  the  same  designations;  and  in  each  case  similar  public  needs 
were  provided  for.  Professor  Channing,  therefore,  evidently  regards  the  town- 
meeting  as  a  development  from  the  congregation,  the  founders  of  Massachusetts 
having  followed  the  familiar  English  precedent  of  vestry  and  parish. 
The  theory  is  both  natural  and  plausible,  but  it  wholly  leaves  out  of  sight  the 
proprietary  and  corporate  element  dwelt  on  in  the  text.  The  general  court  of 
proprietors,  which  lay  at  the  basis  of  the  Massachusetts  system,  was  no  part  of 
the  English  church  or  political  machinery.  The  Englishman  undoubtedly  car- 
ried the  political  education  "  acquired  at  the  town  council,  the  county  court,  and 
the  parish  meeting  "  into  the  general  court  of  proprietors,  exactly  as  he  carried 
his  speech  and  clothing  ;  
but  the  general  court  was  not  thereby  made  a  vestry, 
nor  did  it  cease  to  be  of  legal  and  corporate,  rather  than  of  ecclesiastical  or  polit- 
ical origin.  That  the  town-meeting  in  course  of  time  performed  many  of  the 
functions  of  the  vestry,  and  followed  some  of  its  forms,  is  indisputable  ;  
indeed, 
under  the  circumstances,  it  could  not  well  have  been  otherwise  :  and  Professor 
Channing's  investigations  show  in  a  most  interesting  way  the  extent  to  which 
these  analogies  and  similarities  went. 
 - 243 - 
204  MASSACHUSETTS   HISTORICAL   SOCIETY.  [Jan. 
dren  —  white,  red  and  black,  bond  and  free  —  who  habitu- 
ally worshipped  with  a  given  church  ;  the  town  or  precinct 
constituted  the  territorial  parish,  those  inhabiting  within  the 
limits  of  which  had  to  contribute  to  the  maintenance  of  the 
church  ;  and,  finally,  the  church  was  the  body  of  communi- 
cants who  had  entered  or  been  admitted  into  the  covenant. 
The  inhabitants  of  the  towns  were  those  owning  land,  —  the 
free-holders,  —  who  were  all  members  of  the  congregation,  for 
they  necessarily  dwelt  in  some  parish  ;  but  they  might  or 
might  not  be  either  freemen  or  church  members. 
The  overlooking  of  these  legal  distinctions,  all  based  on  the 
corporate  origin  of  the  colony,  has  led  to  much  confusion  and 
many  erroneous  statements.  For  instance,  referring  to  the 
town  organizations,  —  the  early  "  plantations  "  under  the  char- 
ter, —  one  authority  says,  "  the  idea  of  the  formation  of  such 
communities  was  probably  derived  from  the  parishes  of  Eng- 
land "; 2  another  authority  surmises  that  in  the  early  days  of 
the  original  towns  "  such  local  authority  as  was  needed  be- 
yond the  orders  of  the  court  was  no  doubt  exercised  by  the 
clergymen,  deacons,  and  magistrates  "  ; 2  and  again  "  an  analy- 
sis of  the  evidence  tends  to  show  that  the  organization  of  the 
Puritan  Commonwealth  was  ecclesiastical,  and  the  congrega- 
tion, not  the  town,  the  basis  upon  which  the  fabric  rested. 
.  .  .  No  one  could  be  a  voter  who  was  not  a  communicant  ; 
therefore  the  town-meeting  was  in  fact  nothing  but  the  church 
meeting,  possibly  somewhat  attenuated,  and  called  by  a  dif- 
ferent name."3  So  elsewhere,  —  "If  we  remember  now  that 
the  earliest  New  England  towns  were  founded  by  church  con- 
gregations, led  
by  their  pastors,  we  can  see  how  town  govern- 
ment in  
New  England  originated.  It  was  simply  the  English 
parish  government  brought  into  a  new  country  and  adapted 
to  the  new  situation. ,r 4  Finally,  it  is  in  another  place  set  forth 
as  an  accepted  and  indisputable  fact  that  it  is  to  "  be  borne 
in  mind  that  only  a  minority  of  the  townsmen  had  any  voice 
in  the  government."5 
None  of  these  statements  are  consistent  with  the  facts  or 
the  original  town  records.     The  organization  of  the  Massachu- 
1  Barry's  Massachusetts,  vol.  i.  p.  215. 
2  Memorial  History  of  Boston,  vol.  i.  p.  427. 
3  Adams's  Emancipation  of  Massachusetts,  p.  26. 
4  Fiske's  Civil  Government  in  the  United  States,  p.  39. 
5  Memorial  History  of  Boston,  vol.  i.  p.  504. 
 - 244 - 
1892.]  GENESIS   OF  THE   MASSACHUSETTS   TOWN.  205 
setts  colony  was,  on  the  contrary,  distinctly  and  indisputably 
legal,  commercial,  and  corporate  ;  and  not  religious,  ecclesiasti- 
cal, or  
feudal.  Singularly  enough,  this  distinction,  vital  to  the 
correct  treatment  of  subsequent  historical  development,  though 
sufficiently  developed  by  Professor  Parker  in  his  paper  already 
referred  to,1  seems  to  have  been  more  distinctly  perceived 
by  a  foreign  writer,  who  is  not  known  ever  to  have  visited 
America,2  than  by  any  of  the  more  recent  native  investigators, 
with  the  exception  of  Messrs.  Goodell  and  Chamberlain.3  In 
his  "English  in  America"  ("  The  Puritan  Colonies")  Mr. 
Doyle  says  :  — 
"  Of  the  various  rights  of  the  New  England  township  the  most  im- 
portant, perhaps,  was  the  territorial.  ...  In  New  England,  the  soil 
was  granted  by  the  government  of  the  colony,  not  to  an  individual,  but 
to  a  corporation.  It  was  from  the  corporation  that  each  ocoupant 
derived  his  rights.  Nor  was  this  corporate  claim  to  the  land  a  legal 
technicality,  like  the  doctrine  that  the  soil  of  England  belongs  to  the 
Crown,  and  that  all  estates  in  land  are  derived  thence.  The  New 
England  township  was  a  landholder,  using  its  position  for  the  corporate 
good,  and  watching  jealously  over  the  origin  and  extension  of  individual 
rights."  4 
Thus  the  Massachusetts  town-meeting  was  in  its  origin  the 
meeting  of  the  body  of  proprietors  of  the  corporation  for  the 
transaction  of  corporate  affairs.  Such  was  the  beginning  of 
the  system,  —  in  its  character  commercial  and  modern,  and  not 
feudal  or  primitive  ;  
legal,  and  not  ecclesiastical.  The  next 
question  relates  to  development.  Of  whom  was  the  town- 
meeting  composed  ?  What  was  t'he  constituency  ?  Practi- 
cally, and  as  matter  not  of  theory  but  of  fact,  who  were  entitled 
to,  and  enjoyed  a  voice  in,  its  deliberations  and  action  ? 
The  town  records,  like  those  of  Dorchester  and  Dedham, 
show  conclusively  that  in  the  earliest  days  the  local  affairs  of 
the  separate  plantations  were  managed  through  general  and 
informal  assemblies  or  meetings  of  the  inhabitants,  —  those  to 
whom  allotments  had  been  made  or  dwellings  belonged  ;  
but 
in  a  short  time  the  jealous  corporate  spirit  of  the  colony  was 
excited,  and  as  early  as  1635,  when  as  yet  there  were  but  thir- 
1  Supra,  p.  201,  note. 
2  Fiske's  The  Beginnings  of  New  England,  p.  280. 
3  2  Proceedings,  vol.  v.  pp.  265-280,  320-331. 
4  The  Puritan  Colonies,  vol.  ii.  p.  16. 
 - 245 - 
206  MASSACHUSETTS   HISTORICAL  SOCIETY.  [Jan. 
teen  Massachusetts  plantations  recognized,  the  General  Court 
ordered  that  "  none  but  freemen  shall  have  any  vote  in  any 
town,  in  any  occasion  of  authority  or  necessity,  or  that  which 
belongs  to  them  by  virtue  of  their  freedom,  as  receiving  in- 
habitants, and  laying  out  of  lots,  &C."1  In  like  manner,  in 
March,  1637,  the  court  ordered  that  "All  persons  of  any 
trained  band,  both  freemen  and  others,  who  have  taken  the 
oath  of  residents,  or  shall  take  the  same,  and  being  no  cove- 
nant servant  in  household  with  any  other,  shall  have  their 
votes  in  nomination  with  those  who  are  to  be  appointed  cap- 
tains, or  other  inferior  officers  of  the  same  band,  provided 
they  nominate  none  but  such  as  shall  be  freemen  ;  
for  it  is  the 
intent  and  order  of  the  Court  that  no  person  shall  henceforth 
be  chosen  to  any  office  in  the  Commonwealth  but  such  as  is 
a  freeman."2 
While  reasserting  the  exclusive  political  power  of  the  free- 
men, this  order  none  the  less  conferred  a  limited  franchise  on 
a  large  number  of  persons  ;  but  a  far  more  important  and 
far-reaching  step  in  the  same  direction  was  made  four  years 
later,  when,  in  the  Body  of  Liberties  of  1641,  it  was  provided 
(Art.  12)  that  — 
"  Every  man  whether  Inhabitant  or  Forreiner,  free  or  not  free,  shall 
have  libertie  to  come  to  any  publique  Court,  Councel,  or  Towne  meet- 
ing, and  either  by  speech  or  writeing  to  move  any  lawfull,  seasonable, 
and  materiall  question,  or  to  present  any  necessary  motion,  complaint, 
petition,  Bill  or  information,  whereof  that  meeting  hath  proper  cog- 
nizance, so  
it  be  done  in  convenient  time,  due  order,  and  respective 
manner." 
Unquestionably  under  the  rule  of  1635  only  freemen  under 
the  charter  could  legally  hold  colony  offices,  be  deputies  to 
the  General  Court,  or  vote  in  the  choice  of  deputies  ;  
but  this 
was  not  the  rule  in  town-meeting,  or  as  respects  town  offices, 
as  the  following  orders  of  the  General  Court,  passed  respec- 
tively in  
May  and  November,  1647,  conclusively  show  :  — 
"  This  Courte,  taking  into  consideration  the  usefull  partes  and  abili- 
ties of  
divers  inhabitants  amongst  us,  which  are  not  freemen,  which  if 
improved  to  publike  use  the  affaires  of  this  commonwealth  may  be  the 
easier  carried  an  end,  in  the  severall  townes  of  this  jurisdiction,  doth 
hereby  declare  that  henceforth  it  shall  and  may  be  lawfull  for  the  free- 
1  Records,  vol.  i.  
p.  161.  2  Ibid.  p.  188. 
 - 246 - 
1892.]  GENESIS   OF   THE  MASSACHUSETTS   TOWN.  207 
men  within  any  of  the  said  townes  to  make  choyce  of  such  inhabitants, 
though  non  freemen,  who  have  taken  or  shall  take  the  oath  of  fidelity 
to  this  government  to  be  jury  men,  and  to  have  their  vote  in  the  choyce 
of  the  select  men  for  towne  affaires,  asseasment  of  rates,  and  other 
prudentials  proper  to  the  select  men  of  the  severall  townes,  provided 
still  that  the  major  part  of  all  companies  (of  select  men  be  freemen) 
from  time  to  time  that  shall  make  any  valide  act,  as  also  where  no 
select  men  are  to  have  their  vote  in  ordering  of  schooles,  heard  ing  of 
cattle,  laying  out  of  high  wayes,  and  distributing  of  lands,  any  law, 
usage,  or  custome  to  the  contrary  notwithstanding."  1 
"  
There  being  within  this  jurisdiction  many  members  of  churches,  who, 
to  exempt  themselves  from  all  publike  service  in  the  commonwealth, 
will  not  come  in  to  be  made  freemen,  it  is  therefore  ordered  by  this 
Courte,  and  the  authority  thereof,  that  all  such  members  of  churches 
in  the  severall  townes  within  this  jurisdiction  shall  not  be  exempted 
from  such  publike  service  as  they  are  chosen  to  be  the  freemen  of 
the  severall  townes,  as  constables,  jurers,  selectmen,  and  surveyors  of 
high  wayes."2 
The  foregoing  provisions,  as  respects  to wn-mee tings  and 
town  offices,  as  distinguished  from  the  General  Court  and  the 
colony  offices,  remained  in  force  throughout  the  colonial 
period.  How  did  they  work  practically  ?  Their  legal  and 
theoretical  operation  is  obvious  ;  their  operation  in  point  of 
fact  is  not  so  clear.  Historical  writers  and  investigators  are 
usually  students  and  men  of  the  closet.  Seldom  have  they 
been  brought  in  direct  and  not  infrequently  rude  contact 
with  the  practical  working  of  institutions.  Their  position  is 
very  similar  to  that  of  writers  called  upon  to  describe  military 
operations  or  battles  without  ever  having  taken  part  in  the 
one  or  witnessed  the  other.  Laws  and  their  observance  are 
very  different  things.  For  example,  in  many  States  of  the 
Union  there  have  for  years  been  statute  and  even  constitu- 
tional inhibitions  of  open  bars  and  the  manufacture  and  sale 
of  what  are  described  as  "  intoxicants  "  ;  and  not  improba- 
bly, looking  merely  at  the  statute-book,  the  historian  of  the 
twenty-first  century  may  infer  the  rigid  enforcement  of  the 
laws  found  in  them,  and  assert  that  ''intoxicants"  were 
nowhere  manufactured  or  sold  in  the  States  where  the  inhi- 
bition referred  to  was  in  force.  So,  during  the  whole  of  the 
present  century,  none  but  legal  and  duly  qualified  voters  have 
i  Records,  vol.  ii.  p.  197.  2  Ibid.  p.  208. 
 - 247 - 
208  MASSACHUSETTS    HISTORICAL   SOCIETY.  [Jan. 
been  entitled  to  take  part  in  town-meetings  ;  and  yet  any  one 
who  has  lived  in  a  country  town,  and  habitually,  year  after 
year,  assisted  in  those  meetings,  much  less  undertaken  as 
moderator  or  spokesman  on  the  floor  to  guide  the  proceedings, 
knows  well  that  in  practice  the  inhabitants  of  the  town,  and 
not  the  legal  voters,  make  up  the  meeting.  The  inhabitants, 
of  course,  are  all  males  ;  
but  little  attention  is  paid  to  age, 
and,  except  in  most  exceptional  cases,  still  less  to  the  poll-list. 
Questions  at  issue  are  decided  usually  viva  voce  ;  in  cases  of 
doubt,  by  the  raising  and  counting  of  hands.  The  confusion 
and  disorder  prevailing  at  these  meetings  is  often  great,  and 
rules  of  procedure  little  understood.  Town-meetings  are 
largely  attended  by  young  men,  and  they  are  the  favorite 
resort  of  boys.  Speaking  from  my  own  experience,  I  may 
add  that  for  twenty  years  I  attended  these  meetings,  and  in 
various  capacities  took  active  part  in  them.  I  have  time  and 
again  seen  the  assemblage  divide  over  questions  in  which  the 
deepest  interest  was  felt,  and  amid  very  considerable  excite- 
ment. Hundreds  would  vote  when  the  question  was  put,  the 
vote  being  expressed  in  a  shout  which  made  the  whole  neigh- 
borhood resound,  or  in  thickets  of  uplifted  hands  ;  yet  I  never 
saw  even  an  attempt  made  to  exclude  all  but  legal  voters  of 
the  town  from  the  meeting,  nor  did  I  ever  hear  a  voter's  right 
challenged.  The  law  in  those  respects  was  clear  ;  
but  so 
also  was  the  practice. 
It  is  impossible  to  produce  evidence  now  of  town-meeting 
practice  even  in  the  provincial  period,  and  much  more  so  in  the 
colonial  ;  
for  it  is  more  than  two  centuries  since  the  last  came 
to  a  close  :  but  we  do  know  that  the  methods  of  procedure 
were  far  more  simple,  informal,  and  primitive  than  they  after- 
wards became.  Things  now  done  with  some  regard  to  legal 
or  customary  requirements  were  then  disposed  of  by  general 
understanding,  and  no  formal  record  even  made  of  them.  It 
is  true  social,  civil,  and  political  distinctions  were  more  clearly 
defined  and  observed  in  the  seventeenth  than  they  are  in  the 
nineteenth  century,  but  none  the  less  to  one  who  has  taken 
part  in  a  modern  town-meeting  the  entries  in  the  old  books  of 
record  are  very  significant.  Take  the  case  of  Braintree,  for 
instance,  of  which  Quincy,  with  the  town-meetings  of  which 
I  was  familiar,  was  the  original  first  precinct.  The  records  of 
Braintree  during  the  first  fifty  years  of  separate  town  life  are 
 - 248 - 
1892.]  GENESIS    OF   THE   MASSACHUSETTS   TOWN.  209 
all  included  in  thirty-six  manuscript  pages,  more  than  half  of 
which  are  filled  with  copies  of  contracts  and  other  matters  of 
registry  usually  relating  to  the  laying  out  of  ways  or  the  trans- 
fer of  
real  estate.  Until  May,  1640,  Braintree,  as  Mount  Wol- 
laston,  was  a  portion  of  Boston,  and  its  earliest  history  must 
be  studied  in  the  Boston  records.  When  incorporated,  it 
naturally  followed  the  lines  of  government  with  which  it  had 
been  familiar  as  a  part  of  Boston.  The  management  of  ne- 
cessary local  business  was  committed  to  a  body  of  men  "  de- 
puted for  towne  affairs."  How  these  u  townsmen  "  were 
chosen  nowhere  appears  ;  
but  they  seem  to  have  been  six  in 
number,  the  name  of  one  of  whom,  in  1640,  the  year  of  in- 
corporation, does  
not  appear  in  the  lists  of  freemen.  The  first 
meeting  of  which  there  is  any  record  was  held  the  29th  of 
October,  1656,  sixteen  years  after  the  town  was  incorporated, 
to  take  action  about  the  common.  It  was  u  a  publike  meet- 
ing "  
held  on  "  publike  notis  given  six  weekes  before  "  ;  and  at 
this  meeting  "  the  inhabitants  that  were  their  meet  voted  the 
Common  for  to  lye  as  a  free  Common  unto  all  inhabitants  of 
the  Towne,  that  are  legally  taken  in  by  the  Selectmen."  Again, 
in  1657,  a  piece  of  the  town  common  is  granted  to  Samuel 
Kinsley  "  by  the  whole  inhabitants  .  .  .  upon  a  training  day." 
So  in  1670,  —  "  At  a  Towne  meeting  being  publike  notis  given, 
and  the  towne  being  meet  at  Steven  Paine's  there  was  a  vote 
passed  by  the  inhabitants,"  etc.,  and  in  the  previous  year  a 
vote  was  "  passed  by  the  towne  at  a  generall  meetting  "  pro- 
viding that  "  every  accepted  inhabitant  which  is  an  house- 
holder in  
the  towne  shall  have  an  equall  interest"  in  a  grant 
of  land.  In  1672,  "  It  was  agreed  by  the  inhabitants  of  the 
Town  upon  a  publike  meeting  that  upon  the  first  second  day 
of  March  and  the  last  second  day  of  October  annually  that 
ther  should  be  upon  these  dayes  a  generall  Towne  meeting 
of  the  whole  inhabitants  to  consult  and  agree  upon  all  things 
that  may  concerne  the  good  of  the  Towne  and  for  the  choice 
of  all  their  publike  towne  Officers."  Then  follow  in  the  rec- 
ords a  
succession  of  votes  passed  at  "  publike  towne  "  meetings, 
until  in  March,  1687,  "  At  a  Publike  set  day  of  all  the  Inhab- 
itants convening  together  and  there  meet  it  was  voted,"  etc. 
Finally,  on  the  20th  of  May,  1689,  —  "The  inhabitants  of  Brain- 
tray  .  .  .  being  convened  together  .  .  .  Christopher  AVebb, 
Senior,  and  Joseph  Crosby  were  chosen  by  the  Inhabitants  as 
27 
 - 249 - 
210  MASSACHUSETTS   HISTORICAL  SOCIETY.  [Jan. 
their  representatives  for  the  Towne,"  etc.,  and  the  next  year 
"  Publik  warning  being  given  by  oar  constables  to  the  whole 
inhabitants  of  Brain  tray  to  meet  together  at  eight  of  the  clock 
in  the  morning  at  the  meeting  house  upon  the  3d  day  of  No- 
vember 1690,  being  come  together,"  etc. 
The  language  used  in  the  records  of  Braintree  is  the  same  as 
that  used  in  all  the  other  records  I  have  consulted  ;  and,  what- 
ever the  letter  of  the  law  may  have  been,  that  language  is  to 
me  very  significant  as  to  the  course  of  procedure  actually  in 
vogue  in  the  town  meetings  held  under  the  first  charter  ;  and 
that  course  of  procedure  goes  far  to  explain  the  outcome 
of  subsequent  events.  In  treating  of  that  outcome  Mr. 
Doyle  uses  some  weighty  words,  which  deserve  to  be  here 
quoted.  "  The  spiritual  growth  of  Massachusetts,"  he  says, 
"  withered  under  the  shadow  of  dominant  orthodoxy  ;  the 
colony  was  only  saved  from  atrophy  by  its  vigorous  political 
life."  1  The  source  of  that  "  vigorous  political  life  "  is,  I  sub- 
mit, revealed  in  the  town  records,  and  it  found  its  focus  and 
standing  point  in  the  general  meetings  of  all  the  inhabitants 
of  the  towns. 
It  does  not  seem  necessary  to  carry  this  branch  of  the  dis- 
cussion further,  inasmuch  as  there  can  be  no  doubt  as  to  what 
the  final  outcome  really  was.  But,  as  the  result  of  the  inves- 
tigations made  while  preparing  this  paper,  I  cannot  refrain 
from  saying  that  there  seems  to  me  to  have  been  a  certain 
amount  of  misapprehension  in  the  minds  of  historians  and  in- 
vestigators as  
to  the  condition  of  affairs,  as  respects  town-meet- 
ings and  town  government  at  least,  under  what  is  commonly 
called  "  the  Massachusetts  theocracy."  So  far  from  church 
and  town  being  practically  one  during  the  colonial  period,  or 
usurping  on  each  other's  functions,  the  two  would  appear  to 
have  been  kept  remarkably  distinct.  In  the  church  records 
kept  by  the  several  pastors  of  the  Roxbury,  the  Boston,  the 
Dedham,  the  Dorchester,  the  Hingham,  and  the  Cambridge 
churches  no  references  are  to  be  found  to  town  or  temporal 
affairs  ;  while  in  the  town  records  the  reference  is  always 
simply  to  the  prudential  and  never  to  the  spiritual  affairs  of 
1  Doyle's  English  in  America  :  The  Puritan  Colonies,  vol.  i.  pp.  187,  188. 
"  Puritanism  was  dead,  and  its  profession  had  become  a  wearisome  cant  before 
the  Revolution  of  1688  gave  it  that  vital  force  in  politics  which  it  had  lost  in  re- 
ligion "  
(Lowell's  Among  my  Books,  p.  288). 
 - 250 - 
1892.]  GENESIS   OF   THE   MASSACHUSETTS   TOWN.  211 
the  church.  Indeed  a  careful  examination  and  collation  of 
these  original  records  leads  almost  irresistibly  to  the  conclusion 
that  much  of  the  earlier  history  of  Massachusetts  as  now  set 
forth  in  the  standard  authorities,  and  so  currently  accepted, 
stands  in  need  of  greater  or  less  revision. 
Mr.  Charles  C.  Smith  said  he  had  received  a  letter  from 
Mr.  Goodell  on  the  subject  of  Mr.  Adams's  paper.  The  letter 
is  as  follows  :  — 
Salem,  Jan.  13,  1892. 
My  dear  Sir,  —  Since  I  wrote  to  you  yesterday  I  have  received  a 
pressing  invitation  from  Mr.  Adams  —  to  whom  I  had  stated  that  I 
should  probably  be  unable  to  attend  our  next  meeting,  on  account  of 
the  state  of  my  health  —  to  write  to  you  upon  the  subject  of  the  essay, 
which  he  is  then  to  present,  on  the  "  Genesis  of  the  Township  in  Massa- 
chusetts." He  
did  me  the  courtesy  to  submit  to  me  his  paper,  which  I 
read  with  great  interest.  By  comparing  the  views  I  have  heretofore 
expressed  before  our  Society  on  the  same  subject,  you  will  see  that  it 
is  needless  to  say  how  heartily  I  assent  to  Mr.  Adams's  main  conclu- 
sions. I  
claim  no  pre-emption  in  the  fields  of  historical  research,  which 
are  open  alike  to  everybody  ;  but  I  must  confess  to  a  sense  of  satis- 
faction akin  to  pride,  to  find  that  he  has  brought  from  "  
fresh  woods  and 
pastures  new  "  ample  corroboration  of  the  views  I  had  formed  chiefly 
from  a  study  of  the  early  development  of  Salem  and  Boston,  and  which 
I  expressed  at  some  length  at  the  time  Judge  Chamberlain  pointed  out 
certain  fallacies  of  the  Connecticut  theorists. 
I  see  no  way  of  avoiding  Mr.  Adams's  conclusion  that  the  "  pri- 
mordial-cell "  
doctrine,  of  the  township  as  an  element  in  the  creation 
of  the  State,  is  not  sustained  by  the  simple  accessible  facts  of  history. 
Moreover,  I  think  his  views,  supported  as  they  are  by  the  record  evi- 
dence he  
adduces,  must  be  considered  irrefragable  and  final,  notwith- 
standing they tend  to  subvert  theories  which  are  as  old  at  least  as  De 
Tocqueville's  brilliant  "  Essay  on  American  Democracy,"  which  has  had 
such  a  powerful  influence  in  directing  the  tendency  of  modern  political 
science. 
The  idea  that  the  inducement  to  the  formation  of  a  particular  kind  of 
local  administration  must  be  ascribed  to  an  hereditary  impulse  of  so  re- 
mote origin  as  to  precede  history,  and  that  the  little  community  con- 
trolled by  
this  self-imposed  system  was  an  integrant  constituent  of  the 
State,  and  a  necessary  factor  in  its  evolution,  involves  two  propositions, 
neither  of  which,  in  my  judgment,  can  stand  the  test  of  trial  by  the 
record. 
The  model  of  the  charter  government,  as  Mr.  Adams  says,  was  con- 
stantly before  the  first  settlers;  but,  more  than  that,  it  seems  to  me 
 - 251 - 
212  MASSACHUSETTS   HISTORICAL  SOCIETY.  [Jan. 
the  Salem  town-government  had  been  a  natural  continuation  of  Endi- 
30tt's  government  of  the  plantation  or  colony,  with  similar  machinery, 
and  with  the  same  authority,  save  in  those  particulars  in  which  the 
Great  and  General  Court  of  the  Company,  at  Charlestown  or  Boston, 
claimed  exclusive  jurisdiction.  How  smoothly,  how  insensibly,  the 
transition  must  have  been  effected  from  the  council  of  the  plantation 
to  the  board  of  selectmen  of  the  town  !  After  the  former  had  been 
superseded  in  the  management  of  the  general  business  of  the  colony 
by  the  Assistants  of  the  Company,  the  local  "  prudential  "  affairs  of 
the  plantation  at  Salem  were  still  to  be  administered  by  a  local  council 
or  board,  selected  —  precisely  as  was  Endicott's  council  —  of  "  thir- 
teene,  of  such  as  shalbe  reputed  the  most  wyse,  honest,  expert,  and  dis- 
creete  persons,  resident  upon  the  said  plantacon."  Thus  came  into 
existence  the  first  board  of  thirteen  men,  subsequently  reduced  to  half 
that  number,  or  less,  —  but  always  thus  "  select,"  —  for  managing  what, 
in  course  of  time,  came  to  be  known  as  the  "  town  "  government,  and 
was  fully  recognized  as  such  by  the  ordinance  of  1635-36. 
Mr.  Adams  finds  the  Salem  precedent  followed  in  all  the  towns  whose 
early  records  he  has  been  exploring. 
Mr.  Adams  deserves  praise  for  grasping  the  subject  by  the  right  end. 
He  begins  with  the  town  record.  There  he  finds  his  clew.  To  correct 
any  aberration  from  undue  magnifying,  or  from  over-hasty  conclusions, 
on  too  narrow  premises,  he  proceeds  to  collate  the  records  of  one  town 
with  another,  and  still  another,  finding  always  an  agreement,  or  only 
such  differences  as  might  have  been  predicted  from  the  known  geo- 
graphical or  social  peculiarities  of  the  respective  towns.  Now,  is  not 
this  the  proper  method  of  getting  at  the  truth  and  of  establishing  a  law  ? 
To  what  he  has  found  in  old  Suffolk  County  and  in  Middlesex,  I 
have  his  permission  to  add  the  results  of  my  own  researches  in  the 
older  towns  of  Essex  ;  though  I  regret  that  I  am  not  able  at  this  time 
to  imitate  him  in  the  pertinent  and  systematic  citation  which  renders 
his  paper  particularly  valuable. 
I  feel  sure  that  he  may  await  opposition  with  perfect  confidence  as  to 
the  result.  Let  us  see  who  it  is  that  shall  point  out  the  flaw  in  his 
reasoning,  or  controvert  his  facts. 
I  need  say  no  more  —  if,  
indeed,  I  have  not  already  said  too  much  — 
on  this  point ;  
but  I  would  be  willing  to  yield  to  Mr.  Adams's  solicita- 
tion to "  insert  in  the  Proceedings  "  a  few  words  upon  the  distinction 
between  " inhabitants  "  and  "proprietors,"  which,  I  understand  him  to 
say,  on  the  authorities  he  cites,  did  not  exist  in  the  seventeenth  century. 
I  call  attention,  per  contra,  to  the  fact  that  this  distinction  was  ex- 
pressly recognized  by  Lord  Somers  and  the  other  great  English  law- 
yers who  prepared  the  charter  of  the  province  for  King  William  and 
Queen  Mary  ;  and  since  that  charter  was  procured  through  the  offices 
 - 252 - 
1892.]  LETTER  FROM  A.    C.   GOODELL,   JR.  213 
of  some  of  the  best  informed  politicians  of  New  England,  including 
Increase  Mather,  and  was  discussed,  word  by  word,  by  the  agents  of 
both  colonies,  and  their  friends  in  London,  before  it  was  offered  for  the 
privy  seal,  and  never  a  hint  uttered  that  this  distinction  was  a  novelty, 
it  requires  more  than  an  inference,  however  strong,  to  change  my 
belief  that  these  words  had  always  here  in  New  England  their  legiti- 
mate etymological  signification. 
I  may  not  have  another  opportunity  to  go  into  this  subject  before  the 
appearance  of  our  next  serial  ;  so  I  will  content  myself  with  doing  here 
and  now  what  I  suppose  my  friend  Adams  intended  I  should  do,  —  that 
is,  enter  a  brief  caveat  against  a  too  ready  acquiescence  in  the  opinion 
that  the  present  acceptation  of  those  words  does  not  date  back  to  colo- 
nial times.  In  the  present  discussion  this  is  important  only  as  bearing 
upon  the  solidarity  of  the  "  inhabitants  "  proper,  who,  it  seems  to  me, 
in  all  past  time  as  at  present,  have  constituted  the  corporeal  entity  of 
the  "town."  The  phrase  by  which  these  quasi  corporations  are  de- 
scribed in  
the  law  and  in  legal  proceedings,  to-day,  is  "  the  inhabitants  of 
the  town  of   ,"  and  it  was  the  same  more  than  two  centuries  ago. 
Of  freemen,  there  were,  indeed,  some  who  were  non-resident  ;  
but, 
so  far  from  being  reckoned  inhabitants,  these  were  expressly  excluded 
from  the  basis  of  population  upon  which  the  number  of  deputies  from 
a  given  town  was  estimated;  and  this  was  done  far  back  in  colony 
times. 
These  non-resident  freemen  proprietors  were  frequently  of  controlling 
influence,  —  indeed,  not  rarely  they  were  the  original  joint  purchasers 
of  the  township,  yet,  not  having  their  residence  with  the  actual  settlers, 
they  were  not  entitled  to  certain  exclusive  privileges  granted  to  inhab- 
itants, and  eventually  were  deprived  of  all  political  control.  The  Dor- 
chester vote  or  order  of  1 633  does  not  appear  to  have  conferred  on 
such  non-residents  the  right  to  vote  in  town  affairs. 
The  fact  that,  by  a  colonial  ordinance  as  old  as  the  first  ordinance  es- 
tablishing town  government,  it  was  decreed  that  men  should  be  " rated 
onely  in  the  place  where  they  lyve,"  is  one  of  those  indications  that  are 
entitled  to  great  weight  in  determining  a  point  not  settled  by  express 
enactment. 
Again,  Coke's  definition  of  the  word  "  inhabitant,"  in  his  Second  In- 
stitute, which  Mr.  Adams  cites,  was  special,  and  referred  to  its  use  in 
a  particular  statute  respecting  the  repair  of  bridges  (22  Hen.  VIII.) . 
The  man  who  dwells  in  one  place  and  manures  his  lands  in  another  is 
declared  to  be  an  inhabitant  of  the  latter,  "  within  the  [meaning  of  the] 
statute  "  ;  and  this  is  all  that  Coke's  commentary  conveys.  He  simply 
calls  attention  to  a  construction  which  had  been  given  to  this  statute 
long  before  his  day,  and  which  seems  proper  enough  when  we  consider 
that  the  repair  of  bridges  is,  or  was,  largely  for  the  benefit  of  the  hold- 
 - 253 - 
214  MASSACHUSETTS    HISTORICAL   SOCIETY.  [Jan. 
ers  of  the  adjacent  improved  lands.  The  judicial  interpretation  of  this 
statute,  which  was  never  extended  to  the  colonies,  could  not  affect  the 
general  meaning  of  the  word  "  
inhabitant  "  all  over  this  New  World,  — 
making  a  man  an  inhabitant,  constructively,  wherever  he  had  a  dung- 
heap,  —  though  possibly  it  might  afford  a  text  to  some  mouser  for  legal 
curiosities,  on  the  wonderful  prevision  of  the  great  Commentator  iu 
preparing  some  show  of  stable  foundation  for  the  "  jumped"  claims 
of  "  squatting  "  gatherers  of  buffalo  chips  in  our  boundless  western 
plains. 
Sincerely  yours, 
A.  C.  Goodell,  Jr. 
Charles  Card  Smith,  Esq. 
The  Hon.  Mellen  Chamberlain  then  being  called  upon 
spoke  substantially  as  follows  :  — 
Mr.  Adams  in  presenting  his  paper  on  the  u  Genesis  of  the 
Massachusetts  Town,  and  the  Development  of  Town-meeting 
Government,"  has  told  us  that  it  was  written  as  a  chapter 
of  his  forthcoming  History  of  Quincy  ;  and  that  he  had  sent 
copies  of  it  to  several  gentlemen  of  the  Society  —  to  myself 
among  others  —  with  the  request  that  at  this  meeting  they 
would  express  their  opinions  respecting  the  conclusions  which 
he  had  reached. 
This  treatment  of  historical  'questions  is  a  new  departure 
which,  so  far  as  it  tends  to  bring  about  a  consensus  of  opinions, 
might  be  followed  with  advantage  ;  but  in  the  present  in- 
stance, inasmuch  as  the  matters  contained  in  Mr.  Adams's 
paper,  as  well  as  those  in  an  earlier  one  to  which  he  has  re- 
ferred, have  been  subjects  of  correspondence  between  us,  and 
as  my  general  views  have  been  presented  to  the  Society  in  a 
paper  entitled  u  The  New  Historical  School,"  1  there  may  be  no 
good  reason  for  my  saying  more  than  this,  —  that  I  regard  Mr. 
Adams's  paper  as  a  valuable  contribution  to  the  literature  of 
the  subject,  and  in  general,  that  it  accords  with  my  own  views. 
Nevertheless,  before  I  sit  down  I  may  advert  to  the  few  points 
on  which  we  appear  to  differ. 
In  the  mean  time  I  wish  to  say  something  about  the  paro- 
chial theory,  which,  though  not  new,  is  newly  interesting  from 
the  prominence  given  to  it  by  the  distinction  of  its  recent  ad- 
vocates, among  whom  was  Mr.  Adams  ;  but  as  he  has  relieved 
1  2  Proceedings,  vol.  v.  p.  264. 
 - 254 - 
1892.]  GENESIS   OF   THE   MASSACHUSETTS   TOWN.  215 
the  ship  by  throwing  overboard  the  parish  system  as  the  most 
cumbersome  and  least  valuable  part  of  the  cargo,  advised  and 
assisted  therein  somewhat,  as  he  frankly  tells  us,  by  one  or 
two  of  the  passengers  who  had  made  the  voyage,  some  ex- 
planation of  
the  reasons  which  influenced  them  seems  due 
from  them  at  this  time. 
The  origin  of  the  New  England  towns  is  not  a  new  question. 
It  has  been  discussed  at  home  and  abroad  by  those  whose 
training  and  predilection  for  historical  questions  qualified  them 
for  such  investigations.  I  propose,  therefore,  to  mention  those 
which  have  come  under  my  eye,  and  have  aided  me  in  forming 
the  conclusion  that  these  towns  were  of  domestic  and  secular 
origin,  owing  little  to  English  models,  and  least  of  all,  to 
English  parishes. 
In  1845  Richard  Frothingham,1  as  the  result  of  his  investi- 
gations, said  that  "  England  did  not  furnish  an  example  of 
New  England  town  government"  ;  and  this  seems  to  have  re- 
mained his  opinion  twenty-five  years  later.2 
In  1857  Mr.  Justice  Gray  of  the  Supreme  Court  of  the 
United  States,  then  reporter  of  the  decisions  of  the  Supreme 
Court  of  Massachusetts,  in  notes  to  the  case  of  Commonwealth 
vs.  Roxbury,3  treated  one  phase  of  the  question  with  great 
thoroughness  and  ability. 
In  1865  Joel  Parker,  formerly  Chief  Justice  of  New  Hamp- 
shire, then  professor  in  the  Law  School  at  Cambridge,  with 
wider  scope  inquired  into  "  The  Origin,  Organization,  and  Influ- 
ence of  
the  Towns  of  New  England."4  Having  myself  some 
years  ago  and  again  quite  recently  gone  over  the  same  ground 
in  original  authorities,  and  without  reference  to  his  work,  I 
find  that  I  am  in  accord  with  Professor  Parker's  views  ;  and 
were  it  otherwise,  I  should  venture  dissent  only  on  the  clear- 
est grounds,  and  with  the  consensus  of  those  on  whose  judg- 
ment I  
could  safely  rely.  For  his  paper  in  substance,  though 
not  in  form,  is  the  judicial  opinion  of  one  whose  practice  as  a 
leading  lawyer  at  an  able  bar,  or  as  judge  in  the  highest  legal 
tribunal  of  his  State,  led  him  to  explore  the  origin  of  New 
England  towns  with  the  thoroughness  and  accuracy  required 
by  his  great  responsibility. 
1  History  of  Charlestown,  p.  49. 
2  Proceedings  of  the  American  Antiquarian  Society,  Oct.  1870. 
3  9  Gray's  Reports,  p.  451. 
4  Proceedings,  vol.  ix.  p.  14. 
 - 255 - 
216  MASSACHUSETTS   HISTORICAL   SOCIETY.  [Jan. 
I  have  also  read  Mr.  Melville  Egleston's  "  The  Land  System 
of  the  New  England  Colonies,"  which  seems  to  me  an  admi- 
rable piece  of  work  ;  and  not  less  admirable  and  with  wider 
range  are  the  papers  of  Mr.  Charles  M.  Andrews,  now  pro- 
fessor in  
Bryn  Mawr  College,  on  "  The  River  Towns  of 
Connecticut,"1  "  The  Beginning  of  the  Connecticut  Towns,"2 
and  "  The  Theory  of  the  Village  Community."  3  Mr.  William 
E.  Foster,  of  Providence,  an  accomplished  writer  on  historical 
subjects,  has  published  a  valuable  paper  on  "  Town  Govern- 
ment in  
Rhode  Island."  4  Either  to  mention  or  to  commend  in 
this  presence  "  The  Origin  of  Towns  in  Massachusetts,"  by  our 
learned  associate  Mr.  Goodell,5  would  be  equally  superfluous. 
The  opinion  of  Professor  Parker,  that  New  England  towns 
were  essentially  indigenous,  has  been  questioned,  sometimes 
directly  and  sometimes  indirectly,  by  the  New  Historical 
School,  in  which  Prof.  H.  B.  Adams,  the  late  Professor 
Johnston,  Prof.  John  Fiske,  and  our  associate  Prof.  Ed- 
ward Channing,  are  leaders  :  and  therefore,  after  some  hesi- 
tation, I  
have  concluded  to  review,  though  not  exhaustively, 
the  origin  of  New  England  towns.  Mr.  Adams's  thorough- 
going paper  makes  it  unnecessary  for  me  to  go  over  the  whole 
ground.      There  are  at  least  three  theories  in  respect  to  them. 
First,  that  they  were  native  to  the  soil,  and  planted  by 
English  emigrants  with  the  instincts,  traditions,  and  methods 
of  their  race,  but  controlled,  nevertheless,  by  their  charters, 
patents,  or  royal  commissions,  and  the  conditions  of  situation 
utterly  unlike  those  which  surrounded  them  in  England. 
Second,  that  they  were  copies  of  English  prototypes,  as 
those  were  of  German,  and  these,  again,  of  those  in  remote 
regions  inhabited  by  the  Aryan  race  ;  and  that  certain  resem- 
blances common  to  all  are  specific  and  conscious  imitations 
rather  than  those  forms  and  modes  of  action  which  arise  spon- 
taneously in  
all  ages  and  everywhere  when  men  gather  in 
permanent  bodies  as  village  communities  or  as  organized 
municipalities.  One  of  the  most  distinguished  of  those  who 
have  adopted  this  theory  and  pushed  it  to  its  extreme  limits, 
1  Johns  Hopkins  University  Studies  in  History  and  Political  Science,  1889. 
2  Annals  of  the  American  Academy  of  Political  and  Social  Science,  Oct.  1890. 
3  Papers  of  the  American  Historical  Association,  vol.  v.  p.  47. 
4  Johns  Hopkins  University  Studies  in  History  and  Political  Science,  1886. 
6  2  Proceedings,  vol.  v.  p.  320. 
 - 256 - 
1892:]  GENESIS   OF  THE  MASSACHUSETTS  TOWN.  217 
was  Professor  Johnston,  who  claimed  that  towns  —  not  com- 
panies of  
men  merely,  but  organized  towns  —  migrated  from 
England  to  Massachusetts  Bay  and  thence  to  Connecticut.1 
1  In  the  paper  on  "  The  New  Historical  School,"  above  referred  to,  I  said  that 
in  the  cargoes  shipped  by  our  ancestors  to  Massachusetts  Bay,  no  such  thing  as 
a  town  was  to  be  found  ;  and  this  I  hear  has  been  regarded  as  a  denial  of  what 
no  one  ever  thought  of  asserting.  I  had  in  mind  the  following  paragraph  in  Pro- 
fessor Johnston's  "  The  United  States  :  Its  History  and  Constitution,"  p.  10  :  "  In 
New  England  local  organization  was  quite  different.  A  good  example  is  the  town 
of  Dorchester.  Organized  [March  20, 1630]  in  Plymouth,  England,  when  its  peo- 
ple were  on  the  point  of  embarkation  for  America,  it  took  the  shape  of  a  distinct 
town  and  church  before  they  went  on  shipboard.  Its  civil  and  ecclesiastical  or- 
ganizations were  complete  before  they  landed  in  Massachusetts  Bay,  and  came 
under  the  jurisdiction  of  a  chartered  company.  Its  people  governed  themselves 
in  all  but  a  few  points,  in  which  the  colony  asserted  its  superiority.  As  the 
colony's  claims  increased,  the  town's  dissatisfaction  increased.  In  1635  the  town 
migrated  in  a  body,  with  its  civil  and  ecclesiastical  organizations  still  intact,  into 
the  vacant  territory  of  Connecticut,  and  there  became  the  town  of  Windsor." 
This  is  what  had  been  asserted,  and  this  is  what  I  denied,  —  that  a  town  came 
over  with  Winthrop's  fleet  in  1630.  The  sole  foundation  for  the  assertion,  so  far 
as  I  am  aware,  is  the  following  passage  from  Blake's  Annals  of  Dorchester,  p.  7, 
amplified  somewhat  from  a  similar  passage  in  Clap's  Memoirs  in  Young's  Chroni- 
cles of  
Massachusetts  Bay,  p.  347  :  "  These  good  People  [those  who  came  to  Dor- 
chester with  Maverick  and  Warham]  met  together  at  Plymouth,  a  Sea-port  Town 
in  ye  Sd  County  of  Devon,  in  order  to  Ship  themselves  &  Families  for  New-Eng- 
land ;  
and  because  they  designed  to  live  together  after  they  should  arrive  here,  they 
met  together  in  the  New  Hospital  in  Plymouth  and  Associated  into  Church  Fel- 
lowship, and  Chose  ye  Sd  Mr.  Maverick  and  Mr.  Warham  to  be  their  Ministers  and 
Officers,  keeping  ye  Day  as  a  Day  of  Solemn  Fasting  &  Prayer,  and  ye  Sd  Min- 
isters accepted  of  ye  Call  &  Expressed  ye  same."  From  this  it  seems  to  have  been 
inferred  that  certain  persons  who  met  at  Plymouth,  in  England,  with  the  inten- 
tion of  
going  to  Massachusetts  Bay,  by  forming  a  church  and  choosing  church 
officers  and  expressing  their  purpose  to  live  together  on  reaching  New  England, 
thereby  became  a  body  politic,  civil  and  ecclesiastical,  at  Dorchester,  Massachu- 
setts, without  having  acquired  that  character  by  prescription  or  by  incorporation 
under  the  charter.  So  far  as  this  assumption  applies  to  the  town,  it  does  not  re- 
quire serious  refutation  ;  nor  am  I  sure  that  it  is  better  founded  in  respect  to  the 
church.  The  simplest  idea  of  a  church  is  that  of  a  body  of  people  associated  to- 
gether with  a  common  belief,  having  power  to  admit  and  reject  members,  and 
discipline  them  on  charges  which  not  proven  might  be  actionable  with  damages, 
except  for  the  immunity  accorded  such  bodies  by  the  law  of  the  place.  That 
such  a  body  can  exist  proprio  vigore  without  the  permission,  expressed  or  implied, 
of  the  civil  power,  is,  I  confess,  utterly  at  variance  with  my  ideas  on  the  subject. 
Had  it  been  so,  what  would  have  prevented  any  like  number  of  Baptists,  Church 
of  England  men,  or  Roman  Catholics  having  right  to  allotments  of  lands  under 
the  company,  forming  themselves  into  churches  and  transporting  themselves  to 
Massachusetts  Bay,  with  ecclesiastical  rights  and  privileges  in  spite  of  the 
Puritan  church  1  How  the  far  less  pretentious  claims  of  the  Episcopal  Brownes 
were  met  by  Endicott  and  his  Council,  is  matter  of  history  ;  and  how  the  Gen- 
eral Court  regarded  such  voluntary  associations  even  by  those  whose  theological 
tenets  and  church  forms  were  unexceptionable,  may  be  learned  from  the  follow- 
ing order  of  the  General  Court,  March  3,  1636  :  "  Forasmuch  as  it  hath  been 
28 
 - 257 - 
218  MASSACHUSETTS   HISTOEICAL   SOCIETY.  [Jan. 
Third,  is  the  theory  which,  while  it  denies  or  is  silent  in  re- 
spect to  the  Germanic  origin  of  New  England  towns,  claims 
that  they  are  essentially  reproductions  of  the  English  parish, 
and  their  procedure  that  of  the  English  vestry.  The  late  Rev. 
Mr.  Barry,  if  not  to  the  fullest  extent  of  this  theory,  goes  very 
far  when  he  says  :  "  The  idea  of  the  formation  of  such  commu- 
nities [towns]  was  probably  derived  from  the  parishes  of  Eng- 
land, for  each  town  was  a  parish,  and  each,  as  it  was  incorpo- 
rated, was  required  to  contribute  to  the  maintenance  of  the 
ministry,  as  the  basis  of  its  grants  of  municipal  rights."  * 
Professor  Fiske  puts  it  unequivocally  that  the  town  gov- 
ernment in  
New  England  "  was  simply  the  English  parish 
government  brought  into  a  new  country  and  adapted  to  the 
new  situation."  2 
If  there  be  any  doubt  how  far  our  learned  associate  Dr. 
Edward  Charming  accepts  this  theory  in  his  "  Town  and 
County  Government,"  he  is  here  to  resolve  it  if  he  so  chooses. 
I  have  read  these  authorities  with  the  attention  due  to  the 
subject,  and  with  the  respect  commanded  by  the  learning  and 
ability  of  the  writers  ;  
but  if  they  mean  more  than  this,  that 
the  aptitude  of  the  English  race  for  government  is  greater  than 
that  of  the  Latin  and  Celtic  races,  chiefly  by  reason  of  its  ex- 
perience in  
legislative  bodies,  among  which  may  be  reckoned 
English  town-meetings  and  parish  vestries,  then  I  must  dis- 
sent for  
reasons  which  I  now  proceed  to  give.     But  first  let  us 
found  by  sad  experience,  that  much  trouble  and  disturbance  hath  happened  both 
to  the  church  and  civil  state  by  the  officers  and  members  of  some  churches,  which 
have  been  gathered  within  the  limits  of  this  jurisdiction  in  an  undue  manner,  and 
not  with  such  public  approbation  as  were  meet,  it  is  therefore  ordered  that  all 
persons  are  to  take  notice,  that  this  Court  doth  not,  nor  will  hereafter,  approve  of 
any  such  companies  of  men  as  shall  henceforth  join  in  any  pretended  way  of 
church  fellowship,  without  they  shall  first  acquaint  the  magistrates,  and  the 
elders  of  the  greater  part  of  the  churches  in  this  jurisdiction,  with  their  intentions, 
and  have  their  approbation  herein  "  upon  pain  of  being  excluded  from  admission 
as  freemen.     (1  Coll.  Rec.  p.  168.) 
I  do  not  propose  to  discuss  this  theory  further  than  I  have  already  done  in 
"  
The  New  Historical  School,"  chiefly  because,  if  not  given  up,  it  has  at  least  been 
greatly  shaken  in  late  years  ;  
but  partly  since  its  critical  examination  leads  me 
into  fields  with  which  I  am  not  altogether  familiar,  and  from  which  those  who 
are  bring  back  widely  different  and  inconsistent  reports. 
1  History  of  Massachusetts,  vol.  i.  p.  215. 
2  Civil  Government  in  the  United  States,  pp  39,  41,  42.  And  see  other  ref- 
erences by  
Mr.  Adams  to  the  Memorial  History  of  Boston,  vol.  i.  pp.  405,  427,  and 
Adams's  Emancipation  of  Massachusetts,  p.  26. 
 - 258 - 
1892.]  GENESIS   OF   THE  MASSACHUSETTS   TOWN.  219 
confront  these  theories  with  the  phenomena  of  admitted  facts 
in  regard  to  the  origin  of  New  England  towns. 
The  sporadic  settlements  in  New  England  which  ultimately 
became  colonies,  or  towns  within  them,  were  not  made  on  ter- 
ritory under  the  acknowledged  jurisdiction  of  any  sovereign 
authority  capable  of  instant  and  effective  protection  in  case  of 
assault  ;  but  on  the  contrary,  proprietorship  and  jurisdic- 
tion were  claimed,  on  the  one  hand,  by  Indian  tribes,  and 
on  the  other,  by  the  French  with  whom  the  English  were 
chronically  at  war.  This  fact  lay  at  the  foundation  of  ori- 
gins, and  had  a  formative  influence  upon  developments  from 
them,  since  it  forced  the  settlers,  whether  families  like  those 
of  Maverick  at  Winnisimmet,  Blackstone  at  Boston,  and  Wal- 
ford  at  Charlestown,  or  groups  like  those  at  Falmouth  and 
Saco  in  Maine,  and  Portsmouth,  Exeter,  and  Dover  in  New 
Hampshire,  and  Plymouth,  Salem,  Boston,  Groton,  Haverhill, 
Deerfield,  Springfield,  and  Northfield  in  Massachusetts,  and 
Providence,  Portsmouth,  Newport,  and  Warwick  in  Rhode 
Island,  and  Hartford,  Wethersfield,  and  Windsor  in  Connec- 
ticut, to postpone  communal  affairs,  such  as  roads,  local  po- 
lice, care  of  the  poor  and  schools,  to  affairs  of  state,  such  as 
war  and  peace,  limits  of  territory,  jurisdiction  and  defence. 
Each  of  these  towns  was  the  possible  centre  of  an  independent 
colony ;  and  five  of  them  (Exeter,  Boston,  Plymouth,  Provi- 
dence, and  Hartford)  became  such. 
This  phenomenon  in  the  origin  of  New  England  towns  may 
not  be  unique  ;  
but  to  find  anything  like  it  in  the  Old  World,  we 
must  run  back  into  the  remote  past  until  we  meet  a  case  where 
people  leaving  the  protection  of  a  settled  government  sought 
a  region  foreign  and  remote  ;  and  there,  first  asserting  and 
maintaining  independent  statehood,1  finally  relegated  them- 
1  To  this  fact  of  statehood  common  in  the  history  of  so  many  of  the  early 
towns,  I  think  is  largely  due  that  spirit  of  independence,  as  little  republics,  which 
sometimes  asserted  itself  even  against  the  paramount  government,  but  was 
always  finally  reduced  to  due  subordination.  The  mistake  has  been  made  of  regard- 
ing this  spirit  of  independence  —  a  survival  from  earlier  days  —  as  an  ultimate  fact 
of  political  independence  in  later  days.  Nothing  can  be  further  from  the  truth. 
Towns  were  sometimes  obliged  to  assume  the  duties  of  the  State,  and  on  the 
other  hand,  the  State  not  infrequently  discharged  communal  offices  ;  
but  when 
their  character  as  State  or  town  was  ultimately  determined,  each  was  relegated 
to  its  own  proper  functions.  All  the  powers  and  the  very  existence  of  towns 
are  derived  from  the  State.  At  any  time  it  may  unite  or  divide  them,  enlarge  or 
diminish  their  powers,  or  even  take  them  away  altogether. 
 - 259 - 
220  MASSACHUSETTS   HISTORICAL   SOCIETY.  [Jan. 
selves  or  were  relegated  into  subordinate  communities,  from 
which  they  developed  into  corporate  bodies  having  essential  re- 
semblance to  
those  New  England  towns  which  have  attracted 
attention  on  both  sides  of  the  water,  as  something  the  precise 
like  of  which  does  not  appear  in  recorded  history. 
The  next  phenomenon,  though  not  peculiar  to  New  England 
towns,  is  this,  —  that  between  their  coming  together,  either  sub- 
ject to  
some  paramount  government,  or  living  independently 
of  any  such  government,  and  their  final  incorporation  as  bodies 
politic,  these  village  communities  exercised  certain  rights  and 
performed  certain  duties  not  unlike  those  which  afterward 
appertained  to  them  as  incorporated  towns.  By  common  con- 
sent, it  
would  seem,  they  divided  some  lands  among  them- 
selves and  held  other  lands  for  common  use,  either  for  wood 
or  pasturage,  and  in  both  cases  assuming  corporate  ownership 
so  far  at  least  as  to  make  good  title  in  the  allottees.  They 
also  provided  in  respect  to  those  communal  necessities  which, 
few  and  simple  at  first,  increase  wTith  the  growth  of  village 
communities.  Nor  is  it  unlikely,  but  on  the  contrary  it  is 
most  likely,  that  for  better  understanding  of  their  common 
interests  they  came  together  in  assemblies,  chose  a  chairman, 
appointed  committees,  and  delegated  certain  powers  to  a  select 
number  of  their  body,  just  as  they  had  done  in  their  English 
parish  vestries,  and,  for  that  matter,  as  reasonable  people  in 
all  nations  and  in  all  ages  have  done  and  must  still  continue 
to  do.  In  the  absence  of  records,  the  facts  of  this  stage  of 
communal  life  are  conjectural  rather  than  determinate.  From 
their  later  records,  however,  we  learn  some  things  which  they 
did,  but  little  as  to  the  precise  mode  of  doing  them.  This  ex- 
perience doubtless  had  great  influence  in  shaping  the  form, 
determining  the  character,  and  regulating  the  conduct  of 
towns  after  they  became  incorporated  bodies;  and  indeed,  I 
think  that  the  later  definition  of  their  powers  and  duties  by  the 
State  was  mainly  in  confirmation  of  what  had  come  to  pass 
from  the  nature  of  things  and  their  circumstances. 
The  third  phenomenon  is  the  erection  of  these  communities 
into  bodies  politic  by  incorporation,  not  as  units  of  the  sover- 
eign State,1  but  as  dependent  bodies  owing  their  corporate  ex- 
1  I  cannot  regard  towns  as  units  of  the  State,  as  some  do.  I  
do  not  see  that  the 
mere  aggregation  of  like  things  produces  an  unlike  thing,  as  that  several  hundreds 
of  towns  of  derived  and  limited  powers  constitute  a  state  of  sovereign  powers, 
 - 260 - 
1892]  GENESIS   OE   THE   MASSACHUSETTS   TOWN.  221 
istence  and  exercising  all  their  delegated  functions  in  strict 
subordination  to  the  paramount  power. 
The  last  phenomenon  presented  by  New  England  towns  to 
which  I  shall  advert  is  the  promulgation  by  Massachusetts,  as 
early  as  1636,  of  their  rights,  powers,  and  duties,  with  a  com- 
pleteness and  
precision  to  which  the  advanced  civilization  of 
two  and  a  half  centuries  has  found  little  to  add.  Of  course 
new  instances  and  new  applications  of  communal  powers  and 
duties  have  arisen,  and  others  doubtless  will  arise  in  the  future; 
but  the  principle  —  that  of  incorporation  for  communal  pur- 
poses —  remains  the  same  as  it  was  in  the  beginning. 
I  now  proceed  to  consider  the  attempt  to  affiliate  New  Eng- 
land towns  upon  the  English  parish. 
We  all  know  what  a  New  England  town  is  to-day,  —  its  or- 
ganization, the  
source  of  its  powers  and  privileges,  and  under 
what  sanction  it  performs  its  duties.  But  what  an  English 
town  or  an  English  parish  is, —  what  their  several  jurisdictions, 
powers,  rights,  duties,  and  relations  to  each  other  and  to  the 
sovereign  authority  are,  —  it  is  not  easy  to  say  with  precision. 
Their  origins  reach  back  to  a  remote  and  clouded  antiquity, 
and  they  are  what  they  are,  not  by  written  laws,  but  by 
growth,  prescription,  and  specially  ■  
granted  privileges,  so 
varied  and  anomalous  that  any  definition  of  them  has  almost 
as  many  exceptions  as  there  are  cases  included  in  it. 
There  is  another  impediment  to  the  successful  investigation 
of  English  institutional  origins.  With  us,  in  respect  to  our 
own,  such  questions  excite  no  feeling  more  poignant  than  a 
rational  curiosity  as  to  the  truth  of  history  ;  
but  with  our  Eng- 
lish brethren  similar  questions  are  burning  questions,  involving 
in  their  settlement  either  way  not  only  the  sacrifice  of  deeply 
seated  political  and  ecclesiastical  prejudices,  but  also  important 
political  and  pecuniary  interests.  Hence  in  the  discussion  of 
them,  as  in  a  lawyer's  brief,  authorities  which  make  for  one 
side  are  set  forth  with  fulness,  while  those  which  make  for  the 
other  side  are  too  frequently  suppressed  or  slurred  over.1 
or  that  a  hundred  copper  cents  can  be  constituent  units  of  a  gold  dollar,  or,  in  fine, 
that  species  by  combination  can  form  a  new  genus.  I  prefer  to  regard  the  State 
as  an  aggregation  in  a  body  politic  of  those  units  capable  of  forming  a  State,  — 
the  duly  qualified  inhabitants  thereof,  upon  whom,  in  the  last  analysis,  monar- 
chies and  even  despotisms,  as  well  as  republics,  rest. 
1  In  his  "  History  of  Representative  Government,"  Guizot  has  noticed  the 
influence  of  political  predilection  in  shaping  the  argument  and  determining  the 
 - 261 - 
222  MASSACHUSETTS   HISTORICAL   SOCIETY.  [Jan. 
In  England,  time  out  of  mind,  there  has  been  contention  be- 
tween those  who,  on  the  one  hand,  would  retain  within  parish 
control  not  only  the  prudentials  of  the  church,  but  also  the 
maintenance  of  roads,  the  care  of  the  poor,  etc.  ;  and  those, 
on  the  other  hand,  who  would  withdraw  from  an  essentially 
ecclesiastical  body  like  the  parish,  the  care  of  matters  purely 
secular,  and  intrust  their  direction  to  that  civil  corporate 
body  known  as  the  town.  This  contention  arrays  people  into 
parties:  one  claiming  that  since,  in  the  order  of  institution, 
the  towns  antedate  the  church  and  include  the  great  body  of 
qualified  inhabitants,  by  fair  right  they  should  control  those 
secular  interests  which  belong  to  municipal  bodies  ;  and  the 
other,  denying  the  premises,  and  asserting  that  the  parish  is 
not  only  the  older  institution,  but  that  it  is  and  always  has 
been  a  secular  institution,  demand  that  its  control  of  secular 
affairs  be  continued. 
And  so  this  historical  question  becomes  an  economic  ques- 
tion upon  the  settlement  of  which  depends  the  patronage  of 
office  and  the  disbursement  of  the  large  sums  annually  ex- 
pended in  
municipal  affairs,  —  whether  they  should  be  open 
to  the  whole  body  of  qualified  inhabitants  of  the  town,  or  con- 
tinue as  they  have  been,  in  the  management  of  the  parish, 
which,  though  composed  mainly  of  the  same  persons  as  the 
town,  is  nevertheless  by  its  possession  of  machinery  essen- 
tially ecclesiastical,  and,  under  the  influence  of  ecclesiastics 
beyond  popular  control,  confines  to  a  few  persons  rights  and 
duties  which  belong  to  all. 
On  any  question  of  English  local  history  fairly  treated,  I 
defer  to  the  English  decision  of  it,  however  at  variance  with 
any  opinion  I  have  drawn  of  original  authorities  ;  
for  I  am 
aware  that  an  American  must  mainly  read  those  authorities 
along  the  lines,  and  that  only  a  native  is  privileged  to  read 
between  the  lines,  where  the  truest  part  of  history  is  always 
to  be  found. 
But  I  am  not  willing  to  accept  any  history,  foreign  or  do- 
mestic, written  to  serve  a  party  or  an  interest  ;  and  such,  after 
careful  examination,  I  think  is  Toulmin  Smith's  "  The  Parish," 
conclusion  both  of  Whigs  and  Tories,  —  the  former  in  support  of  popularizing 
parliamentary  representation,  claiming  for  it  a  remote  antiquity  ;  
and  the  Tories, 
always  willing  to  restrict  popular  privileges,  asserting  that  everything  which 
sustains  these  privileges  was  a  late  innovation. 
 - 262 - 
1892.]  GENESIS   OF   THE  MASSACHUSETTS   TOWN.  223 
greatly  relied  on  by  those  who  find  the  origin  of  New  Eng- 
land towns  in  the  English  parish  of  the  seventeenth  century. 
Toulmin  Smith  claims  that  the  parish  antedates  the  town  ; 
that  its  origin  and  functions  were  secular,  not  ecclesiastical, 
but  that  this  secular  body  had  drawn  to  itself  certain  ecclesias- 
tical functions  :  to  all  which  is  opposed  authority  equally  high, 
at  least,  and  the  manifest  tendency  of  ecclesiastical  power 
everywhere  and  in  all  ages  to  usurp  secular  powers. 
Brande  2  
says  that  "  in  the  earliest  ages  to  the  Church,  the 
parochia  was  the  district  placed  under  the  superintendence  of 
the  bishop,  and  was  equivalent  to  the  diocess;  .  .  .  but  though 
originally  ecclesiastical  divisions,  parishes  may  now  be  more 
properly  considered  as  coming  under  the  class  of  civil  divi- 
sions." A late  writer  whose  work2  is  commended  by  our  as- 
sociate Dr. Channing,  as  uthe  best  description  of  the  English 
parish  at  the  present  day,"  says : " Though  in  its  origin  the  parish 
was  probably  framed  upon  the  old  township,  it  soon  became  a 
purely  ecclesiastical  division,  and  the  permanent  officers  were 
ecclesiastics  also.  The  church-wardens,  with  the  parishioners  in 
vestry  assembled,  presided  over  by  the  clergyman,  managed 
the  affairs  and  administered  the  parochial  funds.  Gradually 
the  tendency  increased  to  treat  the  parish,  for  purposes  of 
local  administration,  as  a  unit  as  well  as  an  ecclesiastical  di- 
vision ;  
and  it  in  particular  acquired  statutory  authority  to 
impose  rates  to  provide  for  its  poor  and  to  elect  officers  to  col- 
lect and  administer  the  funds  belonging  to  it ;  whilst  on  the 
parish  from  the  earliest  times  the  old  common  law  had  always 
imposed  the  duty  of  maintaining  and  repairing  the  public 
roads." 
But  against  all  this  Toulmin  Smith  contends,3  that  the  par- 
ish is  
an  essential  part  of  the  fabric  of  the  State  ;  that  its 
original  and  main  work  and  functions  were  secular;  that  those 
who  seek  to  represent  these  as  being  ecclesiastical  are  truly, 
though  without  always  intending  it,  enemies  both  to  the  reli- 
gious and  civil  institutions  of  the  country;4  that  the  parish 
was  made  for  the  administration  of  justice,  keeping  the  peace, 
1  Encyclopedia  of  Science,  Literature,  and  Art,  title  "Parish." 
2  Elliot's  The  State  and  the  Church,  p.  55. 
3  The  Parish,  pp.  11,  12,  15,  23,  26,  33. 
4  This,  and  such-like  passages,  I  think,  justify  me  in  calling  his  work  a  par- 
tisan affair. 
 - 263 - 
224  MASSACHUSETTS   HISTORICAL   SOCIETY.  [Jan. 
collection  of  taxes,  and  the  other  purposes  incidental  to  civil 
government  and  local  well-being  ;  that  ecclesiastical  authori- 
ties are  very  anxious  to  make  it  appear  that  parishes  took  their 
rise  from  ecclesiastical  arrangements  ;  that  ecclesiastics  no 
sooner  got  established  in  parishes,  than  they  endeavored  to 
make  their  authority  paramount  there  ;  that  the  old  meaning 
of  the  word  town  was  simply  what  we  now  call  parish,  and 
that  in  country  churchyards,  in  parishes  where  there  has 
never  been  any  toivn^  in  the  modern  sense,  inscriptions  will  be 
found,  both  of  old  and  recent  date,  naming  the  parish,  town- 
ship, or  otherwise,  as  the  town.1 
Now,  whatever  may  be  the  truth  in  this  conflict  of  authori- 
ties respecting  the  nature  of  towns  and  parishes  before  1600 
or  after  1630,  it  would  be  much  to  our  purpose  if  we  could 
learn  what  the  parish  was  between  those  dates  ;  
for  then  the 
education,  character,  and  prejudices  of  those  who  were  to 
make  New  England  towns  were  mainly  formed  by  their  par- 
ticipation in  
English  parish  affairs.  What,  then,  during  these 
formative  years  was  there  in  the  conduct  of  English  parishes 
that  would  predispose  them  to  accept  or  to  reject  them  with 
their  vestry  system  of  administration,  as  models  of  their  town 
organizations  and  the  conduct  of  their  town-meetings  ? 
This  question  may  be  answered  in  part  by  a  quotation  from 
Toulmin  Smith's  book  :  "  One  of  the  most  daring  and  insidi- 
ous of  ecclesiastical  encroachments  has  been  the  attempt  to 
interfere  with  the  election  of  church-wardens,  and  to  take  the 
election  of  one  of  them  out  of  the  hands  of  the  4  
temporal 
1  It  is  by  such  rubbish  as  this  that  Toulmin  Smith  endeavors  to  prove 
the  legal  identity  of  the  corporations  in  England  known  as  towns  and  parishes  ; 
and  to  the  same  effect  I  have  found,  under  some  mislaid  reference,  the  follow- 
ing: "Memorandum  that  this  year  1581,  by  the  consent  of  the  parish  of  Stow- 
market  there  was  grant  made  to  two  persons  of  the  ground  commonly  called  the 
town  ground  of  Stowmarket  for  the  term  of  three  years  paying  to  the  church- 
warden . .  .  and  the  town  further  do  condition,  etc."  ;  
from  which  another  writer 
infers  that  the  town  and  parish  were  interchangeable  names  of  the  same  body. 
In  that  case  we  should  have  the  parish  (that  is,  the  town)  consenting  to  a  lease 
made  by  the  town  (that  is,  the  parish)  ;  or,  in  other  words,  the  town  makes  a 
lease,  and  then  the  town  consents  to  its  own  act,  which  is  absurd.  The  real 
transaction  seems  to  have  been  this  :  the  town,  one  corporation  and  owner  in  fee, 
makes  a  lease  of  the  "  town  ground  "  ;  and  the  parish,  another  corporation, 
having  some  interest  in  that  ground,  for  a  valuable  consideration  paid  to  the 
church  wardens,  the  parish  representatives,  consents  to  the  lease,  thereby  giv- 
ing a  clear  title. 
 - 264 - 
1892.]  GENESIS   OF   THE  MASSACHUSETTS   TOWN.  225 
estate,'  and  make  the  office  the  donative  of  the  parson.  This 
attempt  was  made  by  certain  ecclesiastical  canons  adopted  by 
Convocation  in  1603."  1  This  was  one  of  the  one  hundred 
and  forty-one  articles  of  the  Book  of  Canons  which  passed 
both  houses  of  Convocation  in  May,  1603,  and  was  ratified  by 
the  king,  but  was  afterward  declared  by  the  courts  to  bind 
only  the  clergy,  not  having  been  confirmed  by  act  of  Parlia- 
ment2;   but  long  before  this  it  had  done  its  intended  repressive 
work  upon  the  Puritans,  against  whom  it  was  chiefly  aimed. 
Besides  the  article  already  quoted,  designed  to  enlarge  the 
power  of  the  established  clergy  in  parish  affairs,  were  others 
respecting  parish  clerks.  Among  the  duties  of  the  parish 
were  the  repairs  of  the  church  edifice  ;  and  under  cover  of  this, 
Laud,  some  years  later,  caused  the  restoration  of  those  paint- 
ings and  relics  of  superstition  and  idolatry,  as  the  Puritans 
thought  them,  which  had  been  destroyed  after  the  Reformation.3 
And  in  general,  the  parish  vestry,  sometimes  legally  and  some- 
times otherwise,  and  always  by  the  power  and  influence  of  its 
officers,  became  an  effective  instrument  in  the  enforcement  of 
those  cruel  measures  which  caused  so  much  suffering  to  the  Pu- 
ritans, and  finally  drove  them  into  exile  in  New  England.  This, 
surely,  was  not  precisely  the  education,  training,  and  personal 
experience  which  would  cause  them  to  become  so  enamoured 
of  the  parish  system  as  to  make  it  the  model  of  their  Massa- 
chusetts towns. 
After  the  Reformation  an  English  church  with  its  parish 
vestry  performed  a  function  of  the  English  government,  and 
its  foundation  was  in  the  constitution.  A  local  church  was 
part  of  a  system  co-extensive  with  England,  recognizing  no 
superior,  no  equal,-  no  other. 
The  creed,  ritual,  liturgy,  and  discipline  of  one  church  were 
those  of  every  other  established  church  ;  and  all  were  ordained 
or  sanctioned  by  Parliament,  —  a  secular,  not  a  spiritual  body. 
Its  ministers,  each  of  whom  was  a  corporation,  were  not 
chosen  by  the  local  church  or  parish,  but  on  presentation  of 
the  patron  in  whom  that  right  was  private  property  subject  to 
sale  or  mortgage,  and  who  was  not  infrequently  influenced  by 
most  unworthy  motives,  were  instituted  by  the  bishops  of  the 
1  The  Parish,  p.  291. 
2  Neal's  History  of  the  Puritans,  vol.  ii.  p.  57. 
3  Ibid.  p.  240. 
29 
 - 265 - 
226  MASSACHUSETTS  HISTORICAL   SOCIETY.  [Jan. 
diocese  ;  and  their  support  was  not  by  voluntary  contributions 
of  the  people,  but  mainly  by  tithes  exacted  from  them  under 
parliamentary  laws. 
Its  secular  or  prudential  affairs  were  managed  by  the  ves- 
try, whose  powers  enlarged  sometimes  by  law  and  sometimes 
by  ecclesiastical  usurpations,  had  come  to  include  matters 
having  no  relation  to  religion. 
That  the  high-churchmen  who  settled  Virginia  should  adopt 
this  system,  as  they  did,  would  accord  with  the  fitness  of  things ; 
but  that  Puritans  should  do  so,  was  not  likely  nor  in  accord- 
ance with  the  facts. 
For  the  Puritans  who  came  to  Massachusetts  Bay  were  in 
revolt  against  both  sides  of  the  system  ;  and  no  sooner  had 
they  reached  Salem  than  they  swept  away  even7  vestige  of  it. 
And  not  long  after,  Endicott,  as  has  been  said,  shipped  the 
Brownes  back  to  England  for  openly  expressing  what  non- 
conformists had  
professed,  loyalty  and  love  for  the  Church  of 
England.  So  wide  and  profound  was  the  change  they  had 
undergone  since  leaving  their  native  shores,  that  those  who 
had  been  non-conforming  Puritans  in  England  became  inde- 
pendents in  
Massachusetts  Bay,  and  ever  after,  in  creed, 
discipline,  and  church  order,  were  in  no  essential  respect  dis- 
tinguishable from  the  Separatists  at  Plymouth. 
What,  then,  was  the  independency  which  Winthrop  and  his 
people  set  up,  and  whence  came  it?  The  Puritan  church  sys- 
tem established  on  New  England  soil,  regarded  either  as  a 
protest  against  the  Arminian  tendencies  of  the  English  Church, 
or  as  a  mode  of  ecclesiastical  government  having  relations  to 
civil  society,  was  an  exotic  brought  from  Geneva  to  England, 
and  thence  to  New  England.  The  Church' of  England,  at  the 
time  of  the  great  emigration,  was  led  by  the  Arminian  Laud  ; 
the  Puritan  Church  of  New  England  embraced  the  creed  of 
Calvin  as  interpreted  and  enforced  by  the  Synod  of  Dort. 
The  Church  of  England  was  dominated  by  a  hierarchy  to 
which  the  churches  in  every  parish  in  England  were  in  sub- 
jection. A  
Genevan  church  chose  its  own  creed,  established 
its  own  discipline  and  order  of  worship,  called  its  own  pas- 
tor and   supported  him  by  voluntary  contributions. 
It  was  this  simple  Genevan  system  that  the  refugees  from 
persecution  in  the  days  of  Mary  brought  back  on  their  return 
from  the  Continent  in  the  days  of  Elizabeth  and  James  ;  and 
 - 266 - 
1892.]  GENESIS   OF   THE   MASSACHUSETTS   TOWN.  227 
it  was  this  Genevan  system,  theological  and  ecclesiastical,  that 
Elizabeth  and  James  and  Charles  sought  to  crush  by  all  the 
powers  of  government,  civil  and  ecclesiastical  ;  and  it  was 
from  the  persecution  brought  on  by  the  conflict  between  the 
two  systems  that  they  fled  to  New  England  ;  nor  did  it  cease 
even  there.1 
They  fled  from  the  Arminian  Laud:  what  likelihood  of 
their  bringing  Arminianism  to  Boston  ?  They  fled  from  eccle- 
siastical exactions  countenanced,  and  in  some  particulars  en- 
forced by  
the  Church  of  England  vestry  and  parish  authorities  : 
what  greater  likelihood  of  their  choosing  an  English  parish  as 
the  model  of  a  New  England  town  ? 
Of  course,  in  both  systems  —  that  which  they  left  behind, 
and  that  which  they  built  up  in  their  new  homes  —  there 
was  one  common  factor,  an  Englishman  ;  an  Englishman 
with  the  instincts,  traditions,  and  habits  of  his  race,  —  a  race 
averse  indeed  to  new  methods  and  inclined  to  old  methods, 
but,  nevertheless,  never  allowing  them  to  stand  long  in  the 
way  of  needed  reforms,  or  to  impede  the  course  of  essential 
justice,  as  Strafford  with  the  law  on  his  side  found,  and 
Charles  I.  with  the  Constitution  on  his  side,  and  as  did  James 
II.  when  a  convention  assumed  the  powers  of  Parliament  and 
changed  the  succession  to  the  crown  against  the  claim  of 
divine  right  and  established  order.  The  Puritans  were  Eng- 
lishmen in  
England  ,  they  were  no  more  and  no  less  than 
Englishmen  in  Boston  Bay.  We  need  not  be  surprised,  there- 
fore, nor  draw  any  unwarranted  conclusions  from  the  fact 
that  in  their  new  homes  they  did  some  things  after  the  old 
fashion. 
And  because  New  England  towns  issued  warrants  and 
posted  notices  for  town-meetings,  and  chose  chairmen  and 
conducted  business  precisely  as  they  had  done  in  English 
towns  or  vestries,  and  as  civilized   people   everywhere  do,  it 
1  The  influences  which  prompted  the  movement  of  Laud  in  1634  to  overthrow 
the  Massachusetts  charter  may  be  gathered  from  Thomas  Morton's  letter  written 
from  England,  in  May,  1634,  to  William  Jeffreys  in  Massachusetts  ; "   which  shows 
what  opinion  is  held  amongst  them  [their  lordships]  of  King  Winthrop  with  all 
his  inventions  and  his  Amsterdam  fantastical  ordinances,  his  preachings,  mar- 
riages, and  other  abusive  ceremonies  which  do  exemplify  his  detestation  to  the 
Church  of  England,  and  the  contempt  of  his  Majesty's  authority  and  wholesome 
laws,  which  are  and  will  be  established  in  these  parts,  invito,  Minerva."  (New 
English  Canaan,  Prince  Soc.  Ed.  p  63.) 
 - 267 - 
228  MASSACHUSETTS   HISTORICAL  SOCIETY.  [Jan. 
does  not  follow  that  they  modelled  their  towns  to  the  pattern 
of  an  English  parish. 
What  are  the  essentials  of  the  two  systems,  respectively? 
In  the  English  system  the  Church  of  England,  with  its  asso- 
ciated parish,  was  a  constituent  part  of  the  English  gov- 
ernment, and  its  bishops  were  an  estate  in  the  realm.  In 
Massachusetts,  on  the  contrary,  neither  religion  nor  ecclesi- 
asticism  was  a  constituent  in  the  Constitution,  —  the  charter 
of  a  Land  Company.  Both  were  functions  assumed  by  the 
General  Court,  and  were  ultimately  lopped  off  with  no  remain- 
ing scar.  However  influential  the  clergy  may  have  been,  — 
and  their  influence  can  hardly  be  over-estimated,  —  they  had 
neither  place  in  government,  nor  summons  to  the  General 
Court,  nor  voice  there  unless  asked,  and  no  more  political 
power  in  the  affairs  of  State,  town,  or  church  than  other 
freemen.  Nor  was  their  loss  of  comparative  influence  in  later 
days  by  reason  of  their  elimination  from  the  Constitution: 
they  were  never  in  it. 
What  has  been  said  of  the  clergy  may  also  be  said  of  the 
Church.  It  had  no  part  in  the  government,  general  or  local. 
It  sent  no  delegates  to  either  house,  and  even  its  own  synods 
were  held  only  by  express  permission  of  the  General  Court. 
Of  the  forces  formative  of  a  constitution,  that  is  the  most 
original  and  dominating  which  longest  survives.  The  potent 
has  permanence  ;  the  non-essential  falls  away.  And  so  in 
New  England  towns  to-day  the  full  current  of  their  demo- 
cratic life-blood  flows  without  a  strain  from  the  veins  of  that 
composite  ecclesiastical,  hierarchical,  and  civil  body  known  as 
the  English  parish.  Even  its  name  must  have  been  distaste- 
ful ;  
for  it  was  sedulously  avoided  by  people  and  legislators  for 
fifty  years  or  more,  and  then  came  into  use  with  precinct  and 
district,  chiefly  to  describe  a  part  of  a  town  set  off  to  form 
another  religious  society.1 
1  The  relation  of  the  town  to  the  church  within  it  came  to  be,  outside  of  Bos- 
ton, the  same  as  that  of  the  modern  religious  society  to  the  church  with  which  it  is 
connected  ;  that  is,  it  built  and  kept  in  repair  the  church  edifice,  and  its  consent 
was  necessary  to  the  settlement  of  a  minister  nominated  by  the  church,  and  it 
determined  the  amount  of  his  salary  to  be  levied  on  the  taxable  persons  and 
estates  within  the  town.  All  these  matters  were  transacted  in  town-meeting 
duly  called,  and  record  thereof  entered  by  the  town  clerk.  When  a  town  was 
found  too  large,  or  its  inhabitants  too  numerous  to  be  accommodated  in  a  single 
church,  or  for  other  sufficient  reason,  it  was  divided  territorially  to  form  a  second 
 - 268 - 
1892.]  GENESIS   OF  THE  MASSACHUSETTS   TOWN.  229 
For  the  foregoing  reasons  I  am  not  in  accord  with  those 
who  trace  the  origin  of  New  England  towns  to  English  par- 
ishes, or  
find  essential  resemblances  between  them.1 
In  the  development  of  the  autonomy  of  the  New  England 
colonies  there  were  three  distinct  forces  aside  from  soil, 
climate,  and  situation,  all  acting  toward  a  common  end,  and 
dominated  in  a  sense  before  unusual  by  a  common  public 
sentiment,  which  formed  the  atmosphere  out  of  which  neither 
could  have  lived  and  done  its  appointed  work.  These  were 
the  state,  the  town,  and  the  church  ;  and  these  three,  though 
in  some  sense  distinct,  were  not  three  states,  but  one  state, 
since  the  fundamental  idea  of  a  state  implies  its  unity,  how- 
ever its  powers  are  distributed,  or  by  whatever  agencies  its 
functions  are  executed.  Yet  they  were  distinct  in  this  sense  : 
they  were  organizations,  not  merety  several  collections  of  in- 
dividuals performing  certain  functions  of  government.  They 
were  corporate  bodies,  each  having  a  life  of  its  own,  but  all 
working  together  for  the  common  welfare.  The  powers  of 
neither  were  inherent.  The  state  derived  its  powers  from 
the  crown  ;  and  the  town  and  church  theirs  severally  from 
the  state. 
I  find,  as  I  think,  that  the  Puritan  state  and  town  on  New 
England  soil  were  essentially  indigenous,  and  their  develop- 
ment the  outcome  of  life   under  the    new  conditions.     The 
church.  This  second  church,  like  the  first,  in  its  secular  affairs  was  based  on  the 
taxable  persons  and  estates  within  its  limits  ;  and  the  new  religious  society  was 
called  the  second  parish,  district,  or  precinct,  —  precinct  being,  I  think,  its  legal 
designation.  This  new  precinct  was  a  quasi  corporation  for  religious  purposes, 
and,  like  the  town,  required  a  clerk  to  keep  its  records,  and  assessors  and  col- 
lectors. Its  
powers  and  duties  were  defined  by  statute  ;  
and  we  then  begin  to  hear 
the  word  "  parish," —  a  survival,  and  the  only  survival  I  find  of  the  English  parish, 
—  in  common  use  as  the  most  convenient  designation  of  the  new  division. 
1  In  this  investigation  I  have  not  been  unmindful  of  the  danger  which  lurks  in 
general  statements  of  facts,  or  in  conclusions  from  them  in  respect  to  the  compli- 
cated and  anomalous  nature  of  English  towns  and  parishes  at  different  times 
and  in  different  parts  of  England.  Though  I  believe  I  have  good  authority  for 
every  statement  I  have  made,  yet  when  I  see  that  English  specialists  on  the  sub- 
ject differ  so  widely  among  themselves,  notwithstanding  their  opportunities  for 
local  study,  and  aided  as  they  are  by  traditions  and  other  sources  of  information 
not  accessible  to  non-residents,  I  cannot  hope  to  have  avoided  errors.  It  may  be 
observed,  however,  that  if  any  historical  question  is  to  be  settled  on  general  facts, 
—  by  the  trend  of  the  stream  rather  than  by  its  occasional  windings  and  retro- 
gressions, —  
it  is  the  one  before  us,  in  respect  to  which  strong  probabilities  have 
a  determinative  force  when  the  facts  are  disputed. 
 - 269 - 
230  MASSACHUSETTS   HISTORICAL   SOCIETY.  [Jan. 
charter  of  Massachusetts,  it  is  true,  was  of  English  origin,  and 
with  English  definition  of  its  powers  ;  but  from  its  start  on 
Massachusetts  soil  it  swiftly  developed  from  a  land  company 
into  a  government  proper,  exercising  the  powers  and  functions 
of  sovereignty  with  only  nominal  subjection  to  the  parent 
State  ;  and  that  New  England  towns,  in  like  manner,  devel- 
oped their  autonomies  with  slight  reference  to  their  English 
analogues,  but  mainly  under  the  influence  of  the  new  govern- 
ment, and  entirely  in  its  spirit,  —  that  of  a  new  departure  in  a 
new  world. 
The  very  settlement  and  permanence  of  New  England  were 
due  to  influences  not  at  all  in  accord  with  the  economic  or 
political  motives  which  before  had  led  to  the  formation  of 
colonies  with  the  permission  of  the  parent  State.  It  was  re- 
ligion, but  not  the  church,  —  religion  in  the  life  of  individuals, 
not  religion  as  a  corporate  power.  To  it,  as  such,  the  colonists 
accorded  no  independent  place  in  their  system,  but  held  it  in 
strict  subordination  to  the  civil  power. 
Thus  Massachusetts,  in  some  respects  unique  in  the  motives 
which  led  to  its  settlement  and  original  in  transforming  its 
land-company  charter  into  a  frame  of  general  government, 
ordered  the  founding  and  character  of  its  towns,  churches,  and 
other  institutions  on  the  basis  of  an  independent  Common- 
wealth. But  it  is  the  origin  of  her  towns  with  which  I  am 
mainly  concerned. 
It  is  not  always  easy  to  fix  the  beginning  or  the  end  of  an 
institution.  We  may  observe,  indeed,  when  its  sun  rises  and 
when  it  sets  ;  
but  where  begins  its  dawn,  or  when  its  twilight 
ends,  is  quite  another  matter,  and  not  amenable  to  exact  defini- 
tion. And  so  is  it  in  respect  to  Massachusetts  towns.  If  we 
refer  their  origin  to  the  first  enumeration  of  their  powers,  our 
search  ends  with  the  often  quoted  Ordinance  of  the  General 
Court,  March  3,  1636  i1  if  to  their  power  and  liability  to  sue 
and  be  sued,  then  with  the  statute  of  1694  ;  or  if  to  their 
formal  incorporation  as  bodies  politic,  then  only  with  a  search 
for  nearly  two  hundred  and  fifty  years,  ending  with  the  statute 
of  1785. 
The  period  of  uncertain  twilight,  therefore,  is  between  the 
possible  unrecorded  action  of  Endicott  and  his  Council  after 
the  arrival  of  the  Charter  at  Salem  in  1628,  and  the  Ordinance 
i  1  Coll.  Rec.  p.  172. 
 - 270 - 
1892.]  GENESIS   OF   THE   MASSACHUSETTS   TOWN.  231 
of  1636  above  referred  to  ;  and  this  period  I  shall  now  attempt 
to  explore  with  such  lights  as  are  afforded. 
Of  the  several  attempts  to  form  settlements  along  the  New 
England  coast  prior  to  1628  apart  from  Plymouth,  that  at 
Sagadahoc,  in  1607,  was  a  total  failure;  those  of  Weston, 
Gorges,  Morton,  and  Wollaston,  in  or  about  Weymouth  and 
Quincy,  between  1622  and  1625,  came  to  naught  ;  and  those 
in  New  Hampshire,  by  Thompson  at  Little  Harbor,  and  the 
Hiltons  at  Dover,  in  1623,  after  a  sickly  existence  for  some 
years,  were  brought  under  the  Massachusetts  jurisdiction  in 
1641,  and  so  remained  until  their  formation  into  a  royal 
government  July  10,  1679.  These  enterprises  did  not  stand 
the  strain  of  labor,  want,  and  sacrifice. 
A  few  individuals  with  their-  families,  as  Maverick  at  Win- 
nisimmet,  Blackstone  at  Boston,  and  Walford  at  Charlestown, 
—  probably  survivals  of  wrecked  companies,  —  maintained  iso- 
lated plantations;  but  the  largest  company  of  Englishmen 
north  of  Plymouth  were  the  remnants  of  those  who,  under  the 
direction  of  English  capitalists,  between  1623  and  1626  had 
undertaken  to  form  a  plantation  in  connection  with  the  fisher- 
ies at  
Cape  Ann,  from  which  they  removed  to  Salem. 
This  settlement,  for  some  time  under  the  care  of  Roger 
Conant,  became  the  basis  of  the  Massachusetts  Bay  Colony; 
and  those  interested  in  it, —  chiefly  West  England  people,  — 
reinforced  by  London  capitalists  in  1627,  obtained  from  the 
Council  of  New  England  a  grant  of  land,  March  19, 1628,  which 
included  the  greater  part  of  Massachusetts  as  now  bounded, 
and  June  20  of  the  same  year  sent  over  John  Endicott  as 
Governor,  who  reached  Salem  September  6  following.  The 
next  year,  March  4, 1629,  the  king  granted  them  a  Charter. 
This,  it  is  to  be  remembered,  was  a  land  company  formed 
as  a  business  enterprise,  whose  policy  determined  the  nature 
of  the  first  settlement,  and  finally  the  character  of  the  Massa- 
chusetts towns.  Their  plan  contemplated  the  building  of  one 
Central  Town  capable  of  defence  against  foreign  foes,  and  so 
regulated  that  while  it  allowed  the  planting  of  other  towns  in 
due  time,  it  would  nevertheless  present  an  unbroken  front  to 
Indian  hostilities  such  as  had  devastated  Virginia,1  and  threat- 
ened the  sporadic  settlers  at  Winnisimmet. 
1  "Be  not  too  confident  of  the  fidelity  of  the  salvages  .  .  .  Our  countrymen 
have  suffered  by  their  too  much  confidence  in  Virginia."  (Cradock  to  En- 
dicott, Feb.  16,  1829  :  Young's  Chronicles  of  Massachusetts,  p.  136.) 
 - 271 - 
232  MASSACHUSETTS   HISTORICAL  SOCIETY.  [Jan. 
This  also  ought  to  be  remembered,  —  that  when  Winthrop 
and  the  East  England  Puritans,  in  the  autumn  of  1629,  em- 
barked their  fortunes  in  the  enterprise,  it  assumed  a  more  dis- 
tinctively religious  character  which  did  much  to  shape  the 
character  of  New  England.  For  while  the  Company  from  the 
first  —  greatly  influenced,  doubtless,  by  the  very  reverend  and 
truly  pious  John  White  of  Dorchester,  by  some  regarded  as 
the  real  father  of  New  England  —  provided  for  the  conversion 
of  the  Indians,1  Winthrop  and  his  associates  seem  to  have 
contemplated  the  grander  scheme  of  a  Commonwealth  in 
Church  as  well  as  in  State. 
As  I  have  said,  Endicott  arrived  at  Salem  early  in  Septem- 
ber, 1628,  and  as  governor  immediately  took  charge  of  the 
plantation.  Before  setting  sail  for  his  government  he  was 
doubtless  instructed  as  to  his  powers  and  duties  ;  but  these 
instructions,  if  ever  reduced  to  writing,  have  not  been  pre- 
served. We  may  assume,  however,  that  they  were  in  accord 
with  those  sent  over  to  him  in  letters  under  date  of  February 
16,  April  1.7,  and  May  28  of  the  next  year,  1629,  and  the 
accompanying  ordinances. 
A  resume*  of  these  powers  and  duties  in  respect  to  matters 
now  in  hand  will  give  some  idea  of  the  influences  which 
Endicott  brought  to  bear  in  forming  the  character  of  towns 
and  churches  before  the  coming  of  Winthrop,  and  throw  light 
upon  proceedings  after  that  event,  where  the  records  are 
silent. 
April  30,  1629,  the  General  Court  in  England  declared  its 
intention  "  to  settle  and  establish  an  absolute  government  at  our 
plantation"  in  Massachusetts  Bay,  and  in  pursuance  thereof 
elected  Endicott  (who  had  been  at  Salem  nearly  eight  months) 
governor  ;  and  he  received  a  duplicate  of  the  charter,  and  the 
seal  of  the  Company.  With  his  council  he  had  full  legislative 
and  executive  powers  consistent  with  the  charter  and  not 
contrary  to  the  laws  of  England  ;  could  seize  and  hold  the 
lands  claimed  by  Oldham  under  the  Gorges  patent  and  expel 
intruders  thereon  ;  could  set  up  a  government  there  and  build 
a  town  and  choose  a  minister  for  it;  arrange  with  the  old  plant- 
ers in  
respect  to  the  lands  they  occupied,  allot  lands  and  con- 
1  "  And  we  trust  you  will  not  be  unmindful  of  the  main  end  of  your  plan- 
tation, by  
endeavoring  to  bring:  the  Indians  to  the  knowledge  of  the  Gospel." 
(Cradock  to  Endicott,  ut  supra,  p.  133.) 
 - 272 - 
1892.]  GENESIS   OF   THE   MASSACHUSETTS   TOWN.  233 
vey  them  by  the  Company's  deed  under  seal,  build  a  house  for 
the  ministers  at  the  public  charge,  and  build  one  chief  town 
and  determine  location  of  all  others.  In  the  execution  of 
these  large  and  varied  powers,  it  is  not  altogether  likely  that  a 
man  of  Endicott's  positive  views  and  character,  exemplified  by 
his  excision  of  the  cross  from  the  banner  of  England,  and  the 
expulsion  of  the  Church  of  England  Brownes,  would  find 
models  for  his  towns  in  an  English  parish,  thus  engrafting  an 
anomalous  and  highly  artificial  system  on  bare  creation. 
The  population  of  Salem,  including  those  who  came  with 
Endicott  in  September,  1628,  was  not  above  sixty  persons,1  to 
whom  Higginson  added  two  hundred  the  next  year  ;  and  all, 
"  by  common  consent  of  the  old  planters,  were  combined  into 
one  body  politic  under  the  same  governor."2  By  sending 
Endicott  and  Higginson,  with  their  companies,  to  Salem,  the 
Company  determined  where  "the  town"  should  be  built, 
houses  erected,  and  all  to  be  fortified,  as  Higginson  informs  us, 
with  "great  ordnance"  ;  and  thither  came  the  greater  part  of 
Winthrop's  fleet  in  June,  1630.  So  the  location  of  the  prin- 
cipal town  was  designated  by  the  Company  in  England;  and 
yet  it  shows  the  nature  of  this  determining  power,  that  when 
the  Company  was  transferred  to  Massachusetts  Bay  and  had 
examined  the  situation  more  carefully,  Cambridge,  not  Salem, 
was  made  the  capital  town.  Plans  formed  in  England  gave 
wa}'  to  the  exigencies  of  the  new  situation  ;  and  this  was  the 
case  all  through  their  history. 
Thus  Salem  was  the  first  town  established  under  the  Massa- 
chusetts patent.  The  next  was  Charlestown,  and  in  this  wise. 
Walford  had  been  there  some  years,  when  Graves  and  Bright, 
probably  with  the  Spragues,  were  sent  by  Endicott  in  1629, 
agreeably  to  the  instructions  of  the  Company,  to  forestall  the 
intrusion  of  Oldham  under  the  Gorges  patent.  Graves  was 
the  company's  engineer,  and  went  to  Charlestown  to  build  the 
town  ;  and  Bright  was  the  minister  sent  to  preach  to  the  peo- 
ple, and  presumably  to  gather  a  church. 
Such  was  the  origin  of  the  first  two  permanent  towns  set  up 
on  Massachusetts  Bay  soil  ;  and  whatever  else  may  be  in  doubt, 
such  as  the  precise  time  of  the  separation  of  communal  affairs 
1  Young's  Chronicles  of  Massachusetts,  p.  13  and  note. 
2  Ibid.  p.  259. 
30 
 - 273 - 
234  MASSACHUSETTS   HISTORICAL   SOCIETY.  [JAN. 
from  the  more  general  charter  government  and  their  commit- 
ment to  
the  town  as  an  organized  body  politic,  it  seems  to  be 
clear  that  the  choice  of  their  sites,  their  laying  out,  the  build- 
ing of  
their  houses,  their  municipal  and  religious  organizations, 
whatever  they  may  have  been,  were  by  the  authority  and  ex- 
press order  of  the  General  Court,  and  without  the  slightest 
reference,  so  far  as  can  be  detected,  to  English  towns  or 
parishes.  And  I  think  the  sequel  shows  that  this  was  also 
true  in  respect  to  all  later  towns. 
I  have  called  these  settlements  at  Salem  and  Charlestown 
towns,  and  such  they  finally  became  ;  
but  at  what  time  they 
assumed  these  communal  functions  does  not  clearly  appear. 
They  were  never  incorporated  even  by  giving  them  names,  as 
was  the  case  with  some  other  towns;  and  if  such  naming  was 
equivalent  to  incorporation,  as  Professor  Parker  holds,  the 
omission  perhaps  implies  that  they  were  regarded  as  already 
municipal  corporations  in  1630.  The  emigrants  to  both  places 
were  entitled  to  lands  by  allotment  and  conveyance  thereof 
under  the  Company's  seal  ;  
but  no  evidence  of  such  deeds, 
if  any  were  ever  made,  has  survived,  nor  are  there  records 
of  such  allotments  until  some  years  later,  though  there  is 
ample  evidence  of  private  ownership  and  cultivation  as  early 
as  1629,  when  Higginson  came.  It  is  not  improbable  that 
Endicott  allotted  to  each  party  the  land  to  which  he  was 
entitled,  or  for  lack  of  such  allotment  that  each  chose  for 
himself  as  had  been  agreed  that  he  might. 
But  neither  the  people  gathered  at  Salem  under  Conant,  nor 
the  governments  set  up  there  and  at  Charlestown  by  the 
Company,  constituted  a  town  in  the  modern  sense  of  that 
word,  and  least  of  all  in  the  sense  which  has  made  New  Eng- 
land towns  famous  in  history.  For  a  time  they  were  some- 
thing more  than  towns,  and  something  less,  —  something 
more,  since  they  were  centres  of  the  charter  government  in 
whose  affairs  the}^  participated  ;  something  less,  because  they 
were  denied  the  exclusive  privilege  of  developing  their  local 
autonomy.     Circumstances  determined  their  final  character. 
We  must  therefore  widen  the  basis  for  generalization,  and 
I  now  recall  the  circumstances  which  attended  the  settlements 
in  and  about  Boston  Bay. 
The  first  emigration  under  the  Company  was  led  by  Endi- 
cott in  
1628,  the  second  by  Higginson  in  1629,  and  the  third 
 - 274 - 
1892.]  GENESIS   OF   THE  MASSACHUSETTS   TOWN.  235 
by  Winthrop  in  1630.  This  last  landed  at  Salem,  June  12, 
and  found  Endicott's  plantation  —  or  colony,  as  Dudley  called 
it  —  "  in  a  sad  and  unexpected  condition,  above  eighty  of 
them  being  dead  the  winter  before,  and  many  of  those  alive 
weak  and  sick  ;  all  the  corn  and  bread  amongst  them  all 
hardly  sufficient  to  feed  them  a  fortnight."  1  No  marvel  that 
Salem  "  pleased  them  not  as  a  place  for  sitting  down  "  ;  and 
five  days  later  (June  17),  Winthrop  with  a  party  came  over 
to  Boston  Bay  to  explore  the  country.  They  sailed  up  the 
Mystic,  and  on  their  return  to  Salem  reported  in  favor  of  Med- 
ford,  as  is  supposed,  for  the  site  of  "  the  town."  A  later  party 
preferred  Cambridge  ;  and  accordingly  their  people  and  goods 
were  brought  around  and  landed  at  Charlestown,  because 
from  sickness  they  were  too  weak  to  carry  their  baggage  and 
ordnance  up  the  river  ;  and  from  August  23  to  September  28, 
Charlestown  was  the  seat  of  government. 
While  in  this  deplorable  condition  —  fifteen  hundred  people 
all  weakened  by  the  long  voyage,  and  many  sick  of  fevers  and 
scurvy,  without  houses  or  adequate  shelter  from  the  sultry 
heat  of  August,  more  trying  to  Englishmen  than  the  winter 
cold  —  news  came  that  the  French  were  preparing  to  attack 
them.  There  are  few  sadder  stories  than  theirs.  In  this  com- 
plication of  
disasters,  not  less  than  a  hundred  of  their  number, 
discouraged  at  the  prospect  before  them,  returned  to  England 
in  the  same  ships  that  had  brought  them  over. 
In  this  exigency  of  their  affairs,  too  weak  to  fortify  Cam- 
bridge against  the  enemy,  they  changed  their  plans,  and  sought 
safety  by  "  planting  dispersedly,"  —  some  at  Charlestown,  some 
at  Boston,  some  at  Medford,  some  at  Watertown,  some  at 
Roxbury,  some  at  Saugus,  and  some  at  Dorchester.2 
This  was  in  August,  1630,  less  than  a  month  from  their 
coming  into  Boston  Bay.  A  month  later,  September  T,  the 
Court  of  Assistants  "  ordered  that  Trimountaine  shalbe  called 
Boston  ;  
Mattapan,  Dorchester  ; &  the  towne  upon  Charles 
Ryver,  Waterton,"  3   which  has  ever  since  been  regarded  as 
1  Letter  to  the  Countess  of  Lincoln  in  Young's  Chronicles  of  Massachusetts, 
p.  311. 
2  Dudley  :  Ibid.  p.  313. 
3  1  Coll.  Rec.  p.  75.  This  order  suggests  two  inquiries.  If  intended  as  an  act  of 
incorporation,  as  it  ever  since  has  been  regarded,  why  was  Boston  included,  and 
Newtowne,  or  Cambridge,  omitted  ?    It  may  have  been  that  the  Court  deemed 
 - 275 - 
236  MASSACHUSETTS   HISTORICAL   SOCIETY.  [Jan. 
equivalent  to  their  incorporation.  And  thus  we  see  that 
within  three  months  after  coming  to  shore  in  a  wilderness  the 
Company,  contrary  to  their  intention  of  building  only  a  single 
town  at  first,  were  compelled  by  circumstances  to  lay  the  foun- 
dations of  
five  towns,  and  permit  the  settlement  of  three 
others.  And  this,  I  think,  is  the  origin  of  all  later  towns,  — 
in  the  paramount  power  of  the  General  Court,  modified  by  the 
circumstances  of  each  particular  case.  As  further  evidence  of 
this,  on  the  same  day  of  the  foregoing  incorporation  of  Boston, 
Dorchester,  and  Watertown,  it  was  ordered,  u  that  no  person 
shall  plant  in  any  place  within  the  limits  of  this  patent,  with- 
out leave  from  the  Governor  and  Assistants,  or  the  major  part 
of  them.  Also,  that  a  warrant  shall  presently  be  sent  to 
Aggawam,  to  command  those  that  are  planted  there  to  come 
away."  l 
What  has  been  said  accounts  for  the  origin  of  Massachusetts 
towns  so  far  as  relates  to  their  planting.  If  we  now  look  for- 
ward six  years  to  the  Act  of  the  General  Court  of  March,  1636, 
we  shall  learn  how  their  powers  were  recognized  by  implica- 
tion, and  what  they  were.2 
But  I  admit  that  we  must  go  deeper  into  the  matter;  for  it 
may  be  fairly  said  that  the  Act  of  1636  3  was  essentially  a  re- 
cognition of  
the  powers,  rights,  and  privileges  already  acquired 
and  exercised  by  towns  at  that  date  ;  and  if  so,  the  question 
the  establishment  of  the  government  at  Cambridge  as  an  act  of  incorporation. 
And  it  is  noticeable  that  some  years  after  the  capital  had  been  transferred  to 
Boston  the  Court,  in  1638,  ordered  "  that  Newtowne  shall  henceforward  be  called 
Cambridge,"  thus  following  the  precedent  in  the  text  (1  Coll.  Rec.  p.  228). 
If  the  order  was  intended  as  an  act  of  incorporation,  why  was  it  not  expressed 
in  terms,  that  the  inhabitants  of  the  places  named  should  be  bodies  politic,  with 
all  the  powers,  and  subject  to  all  the  duties,  of  like  corporations  in  England,  so 
far  as  applicable  to  their  situation  *?  As  a  lawyer,  Winthrop  knew  that  a  corpo- 
ration—  which  the  Company  was  —  could  not  create  corporations,  that  being  the 
prerogative  of  the  crown  ;  and  were  this  prerogative  assumed,  that  it  might  be 
an  awkward  fact,  if  explanation  were  demanded,  as  it  was  in  respect  to  so 
many  things  a  few  years  later.  In  1639  Winthrop  told  what  his  policy  had 
been,  —  as  little  positive  legislation  as  possible  ;  
but  "  to  raise  up  laws  by  prac- 
tice and  custom,"  as  involving  no  transgression  of  the  limitations  in  the  charter. 
Was  this  an  instance  of  the  application  of  his  good  policy  ? 
i  1  Coll.  Rec  p.  76. 
2  Ibid.  p.  172. 
3  It  will  be  observed  that  this  order  confers  upon  towns  no  powers  ;  
it  is  re- 
strictive. The  language  is,  that  the  freemen  of  any  town,  or  the  major  part  of 
them,  shall  only  have  power,  and  so  forth.  In  the  Revision  of  1660  (p.  195)  the 
law  is  made  positive  by  striking  out  "  only." 
 - 276 - 
1892.]  GENESIS   OF  THE  MASSACHUSETTS   TOWN.  237 
still  remains,  What  were  the  origin  and  development  of  towns 
in  the  form  in  which  they  now  exist  ? 
What  we  desire  to  learn,  however,  is  not  by  what  principle 
of  human  nature,  everywhere  and  at  all  times  apparent,  it  is, 
that  every  body  of  men  who  find  themselves  associated  with  a 
view  to  permanent  residence  in  a  particular  place,  after  suffi- 
cient assurances  of  not  being  molested  from  without,  forthwith 
prepare  to  meet  those  communal  necessities  which  arise  in 
all  communities  ;  
but  rather  what  there  was  in  the  inherited 
or  acquired  character  or  training  of  Englishmen  which  differ- 
entiated the  
modes  of  development  and  results  of  their  work 
from  that  of  any  other  people.  If  they  had  kept  records  of 
their  proceedings  from  the  outset,  we  should  be  in  a  fair  way 
to  learn  what  we  desire  to  know  ;  
but  it  was  otherwise  :  the 
earliest,  those  of  Dorchester,  beginning  some  time  in  1631, 
though  with  only  a  single  entry  for  that  year,  —  a  year  after 
its  settlement,  —  and  those  of  Boston  not  until  September, 
1634,  —  four  years  after  its  settlement.  But  the  records  from 
what  may  be  called  the  historic  period,  though  meagre,  throw 
some  light  upon  the  antecedent  period,  and  indicate  that  the 
first  subject  which  engaged  their  attention  was,  as  naturally 
would  be  the  case  with  all  incipient  communities,  the  distri- 
bution of  
their  lands  and  assurance  of  boundaries  and  title. 
Then  would  follow  simple  police  regulations,  and  regulations 
as  to  roads,  churches,  and  schools.  The  matters  must  have 
been  few  and  simple,  for  so  they  remained  after  they  found 
it  desirable  to  keep  records  of  them. 
Now,  in  respect  to  the  first  and  most  important  of  these 
matters,  they  were  not  relegated,  as  all  settlers  on  territory 
not  under  a  general  government  are,  to  mutual  agreement, 
certainly  not  as  to  the  quantity  of  land  to  which  each  was 
entitled,  for  that  had  been  definitely  fixed  beforehand  ;  nor 
would  the  question  of  quality  arise  until  all  desirable  lands 
were  taken  up.  And  so  we  find,  after  these  records  begin, 
that  party  fences  and  use  of  common  lands  are  subjects  of 
most  frequent  attention.1 
1  It  would  be  most  interesting  to  learn  precisely  how  they  arranged  with  re- 
gard to  
these  allotments  ;  
but  their  records,  if  any  ever  existed,  —  which  is  not 
likely,  —  have  not  been  preserved.  Probably  they  did  the  business  in  a  very  in- 
formal, but  apparently  mutually  satisfactory  way  ;  
for  nothing  is  said  about  allot- 
ments (and  the  fact  is  noticeable)  for  some  years  after  the  first  settlements,  — 
in  Dorchester,  for  more  than  two  years  after  ;  and  in  Boston,  for  more  than  four. 
 - 277 - 
238  MASSACHUSETTS   HISTORICAL   SOCIETY.  [Jan. 
As  has  been  said,  the  sites  of  the  town  within  which  allot- 
ments were  to  be  made  were  fixed  by  the  General  Court,  and 
the  quantity  of  land  to  which  each  party  was  entitled,  by  or- 
dinances in  
the  nature  of  agreements  between  the  Company 
and  the  settlers  ;  and  all  that  remained  would  be  for  each  to 
receive  his  allotment  by  the  proper  authorities,  or,  that  failing, 
to  select  for  himself  within  certain  prescribed  limits,  as  he 
was  entitled.  And  neither  in  these  nor  in  any  subsequent 
proceedings,  whatever  difficulties  might  come,  would  they  find 
guidance  in  their  experience  in  the  affairs  of  an  English  town 
or  parish.  The  Dorchester  records,  which  seem  to  be  typical, 
are  instructive  on  this  point.  For  the  first  three  years  there 
are  hardly  a  dozen  entries,  and  these  chiefly  of  the  character 
above  described.  At  the  end  of  their  third  year  they  seem  to 
have  developed  their  autonomy  so  far  as  to  feel  the  necessity 
of  bringing  their  action  into  regular  and  prescribed  methods 
of  procedure.  But  it  is  a  little  remarkable  that  if  they  came 
over  as  a  fully  organized  English  town  and  church,  as  some 
have  thought  they  did,  or  with  only  lively  recollections  of 
their  experience  in  the  working  machinery  of  an  English  parish 
vestry,  they  did  not  at  once  put  it  in  operation  ;  or  if  it  be 
said  that  for  aught  we  know  they  may  have  done  so,  then 
it  is  still  more  remarkable  that  after  three  years'  trial  of  it,  a 
dozen  more  years  of  tentative  efforts  were  needed,  as  is  indi- 
cated by  
their  votes  in  1633,  1636,  1642,  and  1645,  quoted  by 
Mr.  Adams,  before  they  found  it  meeting  the  requirements  of 
their  situation.  No  ;  as  their  situation  and  the  exigencies  of 
their  unwonted  life  were  entirely  new  to  them,  so  they  found 
it  necessary  to  invent  and  develop  new  methods  for  their 
satisfactory  adjustment.  The  records  of  other  towns  show  a 
similar  state  of  affairs,  and  the  adoption  of  similar  tentative 
efforts  in  the  development  of  their  autonomies. 
But  lack  of  space  forbids  the  present  consideration  of  the 
many  interesting  questions  connected  with  the  general  sub- 
ject of  
the  origin  of  towns  ;  and  this  especially,  —  how  far 
the  conditions  of  development  of  towns  and  town-meeting 
government  in  other  New  England  colonies  differed  —  and  I 
think  they  did  not  essentially —  from  those  imposed  upon 
them  in  Massachusetts. 
In  the  foregoing  observations  T  
have  not  attempted  to  traverse 
the  whole  ground  covered  by  Mr.  Adams,  nor,  indeed,  have  I 
 - 278 - 
1892.]  GENESIS   OF   THE   MASSACHUSETTS   TOWN.  239 
confined  myself  to  it ;  but  have  spoken  chiefly  of  some  matters 
which  appear  to  me  to  require  a  more  critical  examination  than 
they  have  yet  received,  so  far  as  I  am  aware. 
It  now  remains  to  say  a  few  words  on  some  points  in  Mr. 
Adams's  paper  ;  and  in  order  to  make  clear  the  matters  on 
which  we  appear  to  differ,  I  will  begin  with  those  on  which 
we  are  agreed.     We  seem  to  agree,  — 
1.  That  the  development  of  the  Massachusetts  government, 
under  its  charter,  was  on  purely  secular  lines,  and  mainly 
without  reference  to  English  precedents  or  influence;1 
2.  That  the  Massachusetts  towns,  neither  in  their  origin  nor 
in  their  development,  have  any  essential  relations  to  English 
towns,  parishes,  or  vestries,  but  were  planted  by  the  author- 
ity and  under  the  direction  of  the  General  Court  ;  and  that 
they  regulated  their  communal  affairs  and  modes  of  proce- 
dure therein  agreeably  to  the  requirements  of  novel  subjects 
and  unwonted  conditions  ; 
3.  That  the  Massachusetts  church,  though  modelled  on  the 
Genevan  system  in  creed,  discipline,  and  mode  of  worship, 
rested  on  a  civil  and  not  on  an  ecclesiastical  basis,  without 
independent  powers  or  privileges,  but  holding  all  in  due  sub- 
ordination to  
the  General  Court  ;2  and 
4.  That  the  Massachusetts  land  system,  or  rather  titles  and 
assurances  of  estates,  was  anomalous,  and  is  not  easily  to  be 
understood  at  this  day.3 
1  I  have  heard  it  said,  for  example,  that  the  Massachusetts  Senate  and  House 
of  Representatives,  as  two  distinct  houses,  trace  their  origin  back  through  the 
two  colonial  houses  of  the  Magistrates  and  the  Deputies,  to  the  houses  of  the 
Lords  and  of  the  Commons.  The  truth  is,  that  the  division  of  the  General 
Court  into  two  houses,  sitting  apart  from  each  other,  in  1643,  was  owing  to  a 
strictly  local  and  even  ludicrous  circumstance. 
2  Ralph  Smith  was  not  permitted  to  go  out  to  Massachusetts  Bay,  unless  he 
would  bind  himself  "  not  to  exercise  the  ministry  within  the  lymits  of  our  plan- 
tation, neither  publique  nor  private,  without  the  consent  and  approbation  of  the 
government  there  established  by  us,"  and  "  to  submit  to  such  orders  as  shall  be 
there  established."  1  Coll.  Rec.  pp  37/J  390,  as  quoted  in  9  Gray's  Reports, 
505. 
3  I  yield  to  no  one  in  admiration  for  Mr.  Doyle's  "  English  in  America,"  but 
I  should  not  select  as  an  example  of  his  best  treatment  of  colonial  subjects  the 
following  passage  quoted  with  approval  by  Mr.  Adams  :  "  In  New  England  the 
soil  was  granted  by  the  government  of  the  colony,  not  to  an  individual,  but  to  a 
corporation.  It  was  from  the  corporation  that  each  occupant  claimed  his  right. 
.  .  .  The  New  England  township  was  a  landholder."  This  statement  overlooks, 
first,  the  quite  numerous  and  very  large  grants  of  land  to  leading  men  in  the 
Colony,  either  as  dividends  on  their  stock,  or  for  eminent  services  rendered. 
 - 279 - 
240  MASSACHUSETTS   HISTORICAL   SOCIETY.  [Jan. 
Now  for  the  matters  in  respect  to  which  we  appear  to 
differ. 
The  distinction  between  "  inhabitants  "  and  "  proprietors," 
about  which  Mr.  Adams  and  Mr.  Goodell  seem  to  be  at  vari- 
ance, raises  a  somewhat  difficult  question  which  I  am  not  quite 
sure  that  I  fully  understand  ;  
but  as  far  as  I  do,  I  think  there 
are  grounds  for  Mr.  Goodell's  caveat.  Mr.  Adams's  views  re- 
specting the  
origin,  development,  and  autonomy  of  Massachu- 
setts towns  differ  so  widely  —  and  in  my  judgment,  for  the 
better  —  from  much  that  passes  for  history,  that  I  am  inclined 
to  accept  them  not  only  as  a  valuable  contribution  to  the 
studies  of  the  subject,  but  as  generally  sound  ;  and  yet,  if  I 
may  dissent  from  some  of  his  positions,  —  and  that,  I  suppose, 
is  what  I  am  here  for,  —  I  should  put  some  things  a  little 
differently  from  what  he  does,  or  at  least  use  a  different  nomen- 
clature. For  example,  I  do  not  perceive  the  analogy  which  he 
perceives  between  the  General  Court  and  Court  of  Assistants 
on  the  one  hand,  and  the  "inhabitants  "  and  "selectmen,"  on 
the  other,  in  respect  to  the  subjects,  or  to  the  modes  of  their 
action  severally,  —  certainly  it  was  not  institutional  ;  nor  do  I 
Secondly,  it  overlooks  the  orders  of  the  Company  in  England  to  Endicott  at 
Salem,  for  the  conveyance  to  individuals,  as  they  were  entitled,  of  lands  by  the 
Company's  deeds  under  seal  ,  and,  as  I  think,  that  all  titles,  whether  by  deed  or 
allotment  by  the  Company,  or  by  its  agents,  —  which,  as  I  
conceive,  were  the  towns 
pro  hac  vice,  —  were  holdings  from  the  Company  and  not  from  the  town.  In  no 
just  sense  were  the  towns  landholders;  that  is,  they  neither  bought  nor  sold  nor 
leased  lands  ;  nor,  save  some  common  lands,  did  the  towns  hold  them  for  commu- 
nity use  In  strictness  of  law,  the  towns  not  being  legally  incorporated  bodies 
politic,  —  for  then,  as  now,  one  corporation  cannot  create  another  corporation; 
that  being  a  prerogative  of  sovereignty,  —  they  could  not  take,  and  therefore 
could  not  make,  title.  Those  proceedings  were,  as  I  have  said,  anomalous,  and 
hard  to  understand.  Nevertheless,  whatever  they  wished  to  do  they  found  away 
of  doing  in  sublime  disregard  of  English  law  and  usages.  Doubtless,  the  General 
Court  said  from  time  to  time  that  certain  towns  should  "have  enlargement,"  or 
that,  lands  should  "  belong  ''  to  them  ,  and  it  is  also  true  that  the  towns  held  such 
lands,  some  of  which  they  distributed  by  allotment,  and  "others  held  for  common 
use,  and  that  these  titles  are  now  good,  but  on  what  theory,  unless  that  of  long 
possession,  as  the  colonists  claimed  in  Andros's  time,  it  is  difficult  to  understand. 
It  would  seem,  however,  that  all  land-titles  to-day  within  the  limits  of  Massa- 
chusetts Bay  
rest  upon  conveyances  in  some  way  from  that  Company  ;  
but  there 
can  be  no  question  that  the  control  which  the  towns,  whether  owners  in  fee,  or 
implied  agents  of  the  great  Land  Company,  exercised  in  their  distribution,  had 
great  influence  in  developing  and  forming  the  character  of  their  autonomy.  And 
in  this  aspect  of  the  matter,  Mr.  Doyle  undoubtedly  well  says,  that  "  of  the 
various  rights  of  the  New  England  township  the  most  important,  perhaps,  was  the 
territorial." 
 - 280 - 
1892.]  GENESIS   OF  THE   MASSACHUSETTS   TOWN.  241 
think  that  "  freemen  or  inhabitants  "  are  interchangeable  terms 
equally  descriptive  of  the  same  class  of  people  ;  nor  that  "  the 
inhabitants  of  the  towns  were  those  owning  lands,  —  the  free- 
holders, —  who  were  all  members  of  the  congregation  "  ;  nor 
that  "  inhabitants  "  of  towns  "  were  in  the  nature  of  stock- 
holders in a  modern  corporation."  To  me  these  and  some 
similar  expressions  convey  ideas  foreign  to  the  homely  sim- 
plicity of  
those  early  people  and  the  nature  of  their  affairs. 
As  I  have  said,  the  difference  between  us  may  be  one  merely 
of  nomenclature  ;  
but  my  way  of  putting  the  matter  is  this, 
—  and  of  course  I  prefer  it  to  Mr.  Adams's  way :  — 
My  idea  of  a  seventeenth-century  Massachusetts  town  is, 
that  it  was  almost  exclusively  an  agricultural  community, 
having  little  or  nothing  to  do  with  manufactures  except  of  the 
simplest  kind,  or  trade,  or  with,  anything  in  which  "  stock  " 
could  be  taken.  Beyond  assurance  of  their  own  lands,  and  of 
their  interest  in  common  lands,  the  just  levy  and  economical 
expenditure  of  communal  taxes,  the  education  of  their  chil- 
dren and  the  care  of  their  souls,  their  interests,  wants,  and 
desires  were  few  and  of  the  simplest  kind,  and  will  not  bear 
being  raised  by  the  imagination  ; 
That  the  term  "  inhabitant  "  included  all  male  adults  who, 
either  by  general  laws  or  town  regulations,  were  permitted 
permanently  to  reside  within  the  town  limits,  irrespective  of 
their  ownership  of  lands  ; 
That  the  whole  body  of  people  within  a  town  consisted, 
first,  of  those  who  had  been  admitted  freemen  of  the  colony  ; 
secondly,  of  those  who  by  original  voluntary  association  or 
by  subsequent  vote  express  or  implied,  had  become  perma- 
nent residents   ;  thirdly,  of  that  miscellaneous  class  of  people 
who,  as  servants  and  laborers,  were  mainly  adjuncts  to  families 
and  had  little  stake  in  society  ;  and  lastly,  all  other  persons,  as 
women  and  children,  not  usually  reckoned  as  members  of  the 
body  politic  of  a  town  ; 
That  in  the  early  years  of  towns,  as  their  records  indicate, 
the  first  three  classes  above  mentioned,  without  strict  re- 
gard to  
their  several  rights,  assembled  "in  general  meeting  of 
the  inhabitants,"  and  there,  without  much  formality  in  their 
proceedings,  disposed  of  their  few  and  simple  communal 
affairs  ;  
but  as  these  became  more  complicated  or  of  greater 
magnitude,  the  legal  rights  of  these  several  classes  were  more 
31 
 - 281 - 
242  MASSACHUSETTS   HISTORICAL   SOCIETY.  [Jan. 
sharply  defined  and  strictly  enforced.  The  freemen,  legally  in- 
habitants of  
the  town,  were  the  sole  electors  of  all  colonial 
officers,  deputies  to  the  General  Court,  and  voters  on  questions 
of  a  public  nature  as  distinct  from  those  merely  communal  ; 
and  though  there  seems  to  have  been  no  uniform  rule  or  prac- 
tice in  
all  towns,  that  which  appears  to  have  been  most  com- 
mon was  for  all  adult  inhabitants,  whether  freemen  or  land- 
holders or  otherwise,  to  vote  on  all  questions  of  communal 
affairs  ;  and  this  was  made  law  in  1641. 
And  with  this  simple  array  of  their  forces,  these  towns, 
unique  in  their  origin,  lacking  essential  experience  of  like  cir- 
cumstances, and  
without  ecclesiastical  interference  or  restraints 
save  those  imposed  by  the  General  Court,  after  a  few  years 
learned  to  manage  their  municipal  affairs  with  such  wisdom 
and  success,  that  in  the  course  of  time  they  so  enlarged  their 
views,  but  without  overstepping  the  bounds  the  law  had  set  up, 
that  they  became  a  power  which  modified  the  action  of  the 
government,  and  in  the  fulness  of  time  most  effective  agencies 
in  the  dismemberment  of  the  empire,  and  so  famous  throughout 
the  civilized  world. 
Dr.  Edward  Channing  spoke  in  substance  as  follows  :  — 
In  response  to  the  kind  suggestion  of  Mr.  Adams  I  have 
come  here  to-day  to  listen  to  him  and  to  Judge  Chamberlain, 
and  I  had  hoped  to  our  absent  associate,  Mr.  Goodell.  It  is 
a  pleasure  to  sit  at  the  feet  of  these  men  ;  and  were  it  not  for 
the  further  suggestion  that  I  should  say  something  on  my  own 
behalf,  I  should  be  well  content  to  remain  silent.  Indeed,  to 
those  of  you  who  have  heard  what  these  masters  of  history 
have  just  said  it  might  well  appear  to  be  a  hopeless  task  to 
justify  the  theories  and  methods  of  work  of  what  has  been 
termed  here  the  New  Historical  School.  Judge  Chamberlain 
has  very  kindly  grouped  me  with  Prof.  H.  B.  Adams  of  Johns 
Hopkins  University,  the  late  Prof.  Alexander  Johnston  of 
Princeton,  and  Mr.  John  Fiske,  as  leaders  in  this  new  and 
apparently  vicious  historical  school.  I  say  "  apparently,'' 
because  I  do  not  know  exactly  why  I  am  condemned  with 
Herbert  Adams  or  Alexander  Johnston  or  John  Fiske.  I  ad- 
mire their  motives,  and  honor  the  care  and  scholarship  they 
have  given  to  their  respective  tasks.  If  the  line  which  sepa- 
rates us  
from  the  "  Old  Historical  School  "  is  the  fact  that  we 
 - 282 - 
1892.]  GENESIS   OF   THE   MASSACHUSETTS   TOWN.  243 
of  the  "  
New  "  base  our  theories  on  the  records,  while  the 
older  writers  copied  one  from  the  other,1  I  am  well  content 
to  belong  to  the  New  School.  But  many  men  deserve  places 
higher  than  can  be  given  to  those  named  above.  I  should 
place  our  lamented  leader.  Mr.  Charles  Deane,  at  the  head 
of  the  school  ;  and  next  to  him  would  come  our  associates, 
Mr.  Winsor  and  Mr.  Charles  F.  Adams.  If,  however,  the  line 
which  separates  the  New  School  from  the  Old  is  that  the 
members  of  the  former  believe  in  the  theory  of  the  continuity 
of  English  and  American  history,  there  are  many  men  who 
deserve  to  be  known  as  leaders  equally  with  the  above.  For 
example,  Professor  Freeman,  in  his  "Introduction  to  American 
Institutional  History,"  advances  this  theory  ;  so  too  does*  Prof. 
James  Bryce,  in  his  "  American  Commonwealth,"  from  which 
I  extract  the  following  :  — 
"  The  northern  township  is  an  English  parish,  a  parish  of  the  old 
seventeenth-century  form,  in  which  it  was  still  in  full  working  order  as  a 
civil  no  less  than  an  ecclesiastical  organization,  holding  common  prop- 
erty, and  often  co-extensive  with  a  town.  The  town-meeting  is  the 
English  vestry,  the  selectmen  are  the  churchwardens,  or  select  vestry- 
men, called  back  by  the  conditions  of  colonial  life  into  an  activity  fuller 
than  they  exerted  in  England  even  in  the  seventeenth  century  and  far 
fuller  than  they  now  retain.  In  England  local  self-government,  except 
as  regarded  the  poor  law,  tended  to  decay  in  the  smaller  (i.  
e.  parish  or 
township)  areas."  2 
Other  leaders  are  Professor  Howard,  the  author  of  "Amer- 
ican Local  Constitutional  History,"  and  Professor  Ashley  of 
Toronto,  whose  "English  Economic  History"  has  attracted 
much  attention.  With  them,  too,  should  be  classed  Mr. 
Adams  himself  ;  and  I  am  afraid  even  Judge  Chamberlain  is 
catching  the  taint  of  infection.  I  am  perfectly  willing  to  be 
classed  with  these  men  ;  
for  it  is  a  leading  principle  of  these 
modern  students  of  American  history,  that  each  student  is  en- 
titled to  
his  own  opinion,  provided  it  is  based  on  careful  and 
prolonged  investigation  ;  and  it  is  a  further  principle,  that 
when  further  research  convinces  a  man  that  he  has  erred,  his 
change  of  opinion  shall  be  received  with  respect.  Now,  these 
modern  students  do  not  agree  among  themselves.  For  ex- 
ample,   as   will   appear   later,   I   cannot   accept  Prof.  H.   B. 
1  "  The  historian  of  the  New  School,  distrusting  second-hand  authorities,  re- 
sorts to  
original  records."    2  Proceedings,  vol.  v.  p.  
265. 
2  American  Commonwealth,  vol.  i.  p.  583. 
 - 283 - 
244  MASSACHUSETTS  HISTORICAL  SOCIETY.  [Jan. 
Adams's  "  Germanic  theory,"  nor  Professor  Johnston's  "  Pri- 
mordial-germ theory,"  nor  Mr.  Adams's  "  Massachusetts 
Charter  theory."  But  I  can  and  do  respect  these  men,  and 
all  the  rest,  for  the  labor  and  thought  they  have  given  to  the 
work,  and  I  esteem  it  a  great  privilege  to  win  their  respect 
even  while  disagreeing  with  them. 
The  method  pursued  by  these  modern  writers  is  the  true 
historical  method  ;  hence  the  name  of  their  school  should  be 
the  True  Historical  School,  in  place  of  the  New  Historical 
School.  The  true  historical  method  consists  in  the  examina- 
tion of  
original  records  and  other  contemporaneous  sources, 
and  in  generalizations  based  on  such  research.  Where  the 
generalizations  are  based  on  a  sufficient  number  of  records,  the 
method  is  the  best  which  has  yet  been  devised.  In  every  way 
it  is  preferable  to  the  old  historical  method  of  copying  the 
work  of  other  historical  students.  In  their  search  for  truth 
these  students  have  gone  beyond  American  history,  as  it  is 
usually  understood,  and  have  made  use  of  their  knowledge  of 
the  history  and  institutions  of  the  English-speaking  race  before 
the  colonizing  of  America.  One  great  result  of  this  study  has 
been  the  application  of  the  theory  of  the  continuity  of  history 
to  the  elucidation  of  problems  of  especial  interest  to  students 
of  American  institutions,  as  that  phrase  is  ordinarily  used.  It 
seems  to  me  that  this  theory  of  the  continuity  of  American 
and  English  history  is  in  itself  a  correct  theory.  The  history 
of  the  English  in  America  since  the  founding  of  the  English 
colonies  cannot  be  divorced  from  the  history  of  the  English  in 
England  and  Germany  before  that  period.  There  are  no  sud- 
den breaks  in  the  history  of  the  English  race,  no  well-defined 
periods  separated  one  from  the  other  by  definite  bounds.  John 
Winthrop,  in  coming  to  America,  did  not  cease  to  be  an  Eng- 
lishman. The  connection  between  the  Puritans  in  England 
and  America  was  close.  John  Hampden  and  John  Winthrop 
were  joint  executors  of  Isaac  Johnson's  will,  and  there  was  a 
constant  current  of  men  to  and  from  England  and  New  Eng- 
land. The  younger  Vane,  Sir  Richard  Saltonstall,  and  Hugh 
Peter  are  leading  examples  of  this  interchange  of  men  and 
ideas.  American  writers  have  written  the  history  of  Massa- 
chusetts entirely  apart  from  the  history  of  Puritan  England, 
as  well  as  of  the  England  which  preceded  the  exodus  to 
America.  They  have  also  written  the  history  of  America  after 
the  Restoration  as  something  apart  from  the  history  of  Eng- 
 - 284 - 
1892.]  GENESIS  OF  THE  MASSACHUSETTS   TOWN.  245 
land  of  that  time.  Some  of  them  have  even  attempted  to  dis- 
cover the  origin  of  American  institutions  without  first  gaining 
a  knowledge  of  English  institutions.  By  so  doing  they  have 
fallen  into  grievous  errors  ;  and  the  employment  of  this  faulty 
method  by  the  older  writers  is  one  reason  why  the  history  of 
Massachusetts  remains  to  be  written. 
Historical  students  are  accustomed  to  divide  history  into  pe- 
riods, for  
convenience'  sake.  For  example,  we  speak  of  Medi- 
aeval History  and  of  Modern  History,  as  if  they  were  things 
entirely  apart.  As  a  matter  of  fact,  it  is  impossible  to  say 
when  one  begins  and  the  other  ends.  In  a  similar  way  we 
speak  of  the  Middle  Ages,  as  to  the  beginning  and  end  whereof 
few  scholars  are  agreed.  This  theory  of  the  continuity  of  his- 
tory applies  with  especial  force  to  the  history  of  institutions, 
as  institutions  are  of  very  slow  growth  and  are  rarely  invented, 
but  almost  always  evolved  from  something  which  went  before. 
True  as  this  is  of  institutions  in  general,  it  is  especially  true  of 
English  institutions  in  particular,  as  the  English  race  is  won- 
derfully conservative,  and  clings  to  the  old  oftentimes  simply 
and  solely -because  it  is  the  old,  though  sometimes  it  holds  fast 
to  things  antiquated  and  obsolete  because  such  holding  fast  is 
convenient.  But  theories,  however  good  they  may  be  in  them- 
selves, are  oftentimes  pushed  to  extremes  ;  and  it  seems  to  me 
that  the  advocates  of  the  Germanic  origin  of  New  England 
towns  have  pushed  the  theory  of  the  continuity  of  history  far- 
ther than  the  facts  in  the  case  will  bear. 
In  a  general  way  it  may  be  correct  to  speak  of  the  Germanic 
origin  of  our  institutions.  In  a  general  way,  too,  it  would  be 
correct  to  speak  of  the  Romanic  origin  of  our  institutions,  and 
undoubtedly  it  would  be  still  more  correct  to  speak  of  the 
Romano-Germanic  origin  of  American  institutions.  Perhaps 
the  germs  of  our  local  institutions  may  all  be  found  some  time 
in  those  old  communities  living  in  the  German  forests  so  long 
ago  ;  
but  they  have  not  yet  been  found  there.  Let  us  apply 
to  the  facts  as  now  stated  the  tests  of  historical  criticism,  as 
we,  students  of  American  history,  are  accustomed  to  apply 
them  in  our  study  of  early  Massachusetts  history. 
Certain  things,  as,  for  example,  a  collection  of  houses  en- 
closed bya  paling  like  that  of  Newtowne,1  have  been  found  in 
early  Massachusetts  and  in  the  Germany  of  the  pre-migration 
i  See  ante,  p.  
193 
 - 285 - 
246  MASSACHUSETTS   HISTORICAL   SOCIETY.  [Jan. 
period.  As  we  are  descended,  in  part  at  least,  from  some  of 
those  old  Germans,  it  is  concluded  that  in  the  German  "  tun  " 
we  see  the  origin  of  the  New  England  town. 
This  theory  demands  two  things  :  first,  a  correct  knowledge 
of  an  old  German  social  organization;  and  second,  some  his- 
torical connection  between  the  institutions  of  the  pre-migration 
German  and  those  of  the  early  New  Englander.  I  think  the 
advocates  of  "  the  Germanic  theory  "  have  made  out  their  case 
on  neither  of  these  points. 
Our  knowledge,  such  as  it  is,  of  the  early  Germanic  insti- 
tutions is  
derived  from  a  few  sentences  in  Caesar's  "  De  Bello 
Gallico,"  and  from  a  longer  and  more  detailed  account  in  the 
u  Germania  "  of  Tacitus.  These  two  descriptions  were  written 
about  one  hundred  and  fifty  years  apart.  In  them  a  race  is 
described  in  two  very  different  stages  of  development.  From 
them  we  can  obtain,  under  the  most  favorable  interpretations, 
only  the  most  vague  and  unsatisfactory  idea  of  the  institutions 
of  that  ancient  folk.  Nor  are  scholars  agreed  in  their  interpreta- 
tions of  
some  of  the  most  important  passages.  It  really  makes 
little  difference,  however,  which  of  these  interpretations  is  the 
correct  one  ;  
for  there  is  no  reason,  so  far  as  I  can  see,  to  accept 
either  or  both  of  these  accounts  as  affording  a  true  picture  of 
early  German  life.  Caesar  was  never  in  Germany  under  cir- 
cumstances which  gave  him  a  chance  to  see  the  Germans  as 
they  really  were  ;  Tacitus  probably  acquired  his  information 
at  second-hand.  Unless  these  accounts  are  confirmed  by  inde- 
pendent authorities,  they  afford  very  insecure  foundations  for 
the  elaborate  theories  which  have  been  built  upon  them. 
Students  of  Germanic  institutions,  recognizing  this  fact,  have 
attempted  to  make  them  more  secure  in  two  ways  :  first,  by 
explanations  derived  from  Lex  Salica,  Lex  Baiuvariorum,  Lex 
Frisionum,  and  other  of  the  Leges  Barbarorum.  These  codes 
are  written  in  barbarous  Latin,  and  were  compiled  after  the 
Germans  had  been  subjected  to  Romanic  influences,  in  some 
cases  for  considerable  periods  of*  time.  How  long  it  is  impos- 
sible to  
say,  as  we  cannot  in  any  one  case  ascertain  accurately 
when  the  Romanic  influence  began.  At  all  events,  these  codes 
do  not  show  us  Germanic  society  as  it  was  before  the  Migra- 
tions ;  
and  to  interpret  Tacitus  by  the  aid  of  Lex  Salica  or 
Lex  Alamannorum  seems  to  me  like  interpreting  that  record 
of  1633  in  the  Dorchester  town  records  in  the  light  of  Free- 
man's "  
Town  Ofiicer,"  published  in  1793. 
 - 286 - 
1892.]  GENESIS   OF   THE   MASSACHUSETTS   TOWN.  247 
The  second  way  of  elucidating  and  confirming  these  accounts 
of  Tacitus  and  Caesar  consists  in  comparing  them  with  and 
explaining  them  by  the  customs  and  institutions  of  Ger- 
man towns  of  our  own  day.  For  example,  one  writer 
takes  his  reader  to  the  Black  Forest  towns,  and  explains  to 
them  what  he  sees  there  by  the  aid  of  the  "  Germania."  These 
Black  Forest  towns  are  most  interesting  places  to  visit.  In- 
deed I  
always  advise  students  who  consult  me  as  to  a  good 
route  for  a  vacation  trip  to  Europe  to  walk  through  this 
charming  region.  But  there  is  no  evidence  that  these  towns 
are  now  as  German  towns  were  in  the  time  of  Tacitus.  On 
the  other  hand,  there  are  reasons  for  supposing  these  towns  to 
be  of  Mediaeval  origin.  Furthermore,  they  are  situated  on  the 
Roman  side  of  the  Vallum  Hadriani,  or  Devil's  Wall  of  our 
German  forefathers.  From  this  trans-Rhenish  country  the 
Romans  were  driven,  as  they  were  driven  from  other  portions 
of  Western  Europe.  But  this  is  the  precise  bit  of  trans-Rhenish 
Germany  where,  if  anywhere,  one  would  expect  to  find  traces 
of  Romanic  influence.  Be  this  as  it  may,  the  method  itself  is 
wrong.  Grant  that  these  towns  are  of  the  purest  German 
origin,  and  in  every  way  answer  to  the  description  of  German 
towns  of  the  second  century,  does  not  this  fact  tend  to  show 
that  Tacitus  was  describing  something  which  did  not  then 
exist?  If,  however,  as  is  more  likely,  these  towns  were  of  Me- 
diaeval origin,  they  were  based  partly  on  Romanic  institutions. 
The  more  closely  they  correspond  to  the  communities  described 
in  the  "  Germania,"  the  more  evident  it  is  that  what  Tacitus 
described  in  that  work  was  not  a  pure  German  community 
at  all,  but  a  community  whose  ideas  and  institutions  were 
partly  Germanic,  partly  Romanic. 
It  may  be  said  that  the  village-community  theory  of  Ger- 
manic institutions  is  the  accepted  theory  of  scholars,  and  those 
who  seek  its  overthrow  must  prove  their  case,  —  that  the  bur- 
den of  proof  is  on  them.  Now,  I  am  not  trying  to  disprove 
this  theory.  I  am  merely  insisting  that  it  is  nothing  more  than 
a  working  hypothesis  ;  that  it  is  in  itself  something  which  has 
not  been  proved,  and  therefore  is  a  very  poor  basis  on  which 
to  build  an  elaborate  superstructure.  When  the  students  of 
Germany  before  the  Migrations  produce  first-rate  proof  of 
their  assertions,  it  will  be  time  enough  for  us  to  trace  our 
institutions  back  to  that  time  and  place  and  folk. 
But   supposing,    for   the    moment,  that   Tacitus   described 
 - 287 - 
248  MASSACHUSETTS  HISTORICAL  SOCIETY.  [Jan. 
Germany  as  it  really  was  in  his  time,  and  supposing,  fur- 
ther, that  the  interpretation  placed  upon  his  work  by  Von 
Maurer  and  his  followers  is  the  true  interpretation,  —  can 
we  trace  these  institutions  from  Germany  to  England,  and 
through  England  to  New  England  ?  It  is  hazardous  to  say 
that  a  thing  cannot  be  done  ;  but,  as  a  matter  of  fact,  this 
thing  has  not  yet  been  done,  although  very  competent  students 
have  given  vast  amounts  of  time  and  labor  to  the  task.  That 
this  should  be  so  is  not  remarkable  ;  for  we  have  no  written 
contemporaneous  accounts  of  the  conquest  of  Britain  by  the 
Jutes,  Angles,  and  Saxons.  The  earliest  written  accounts 
which  have  come  down  to  us  were  compiled  long  after  the 
conquest,  and  after  the  conquerors  had  embraced  the  religion 
of  the  conquered.  So  here  again  there  is  a  gap,  and  the  pro- 
cess of  
reasoning  from  analogies  must  again  be  relied  on.  In 
this  way  many  things  in  the  England  of  Edwin  and  Alfred  are 
found  to  be  similar  to  things  described  in  the"  Germania."  Now, 
no  one  knows  how  much  of  the  English  institutions  of  the  pe- 
riod of  
the  Wessex  supremacy  are  of  Germanic  origin,  how  much 
of  Romanic  origin,  how  much  of  Keltic  origin.  Some  students 
of  English  history  declare  that  the  Romano-British  or  Keltic 
civilization  was  swept  away  by  the  conquering  Germans  ;  that 
Romano  Keltic  institutions  perished  utterly  from  the  land  as  far 
as  the  conquerors  conquered,  and  were  wholly  replaced  by  Ger- 
manic institutions.  This  sweeping  away  of  a  civilized  folk  by 
an  uncivilized  folk  is  improbable  on  the  face  of  it.  Elsewhere, 
so  far  as  we  know,  the  Germans  did  nothing  of  the  sort.  Then, 
too,  there  are  certain  institutions  which  are  in  existence  in 
England  at  the  beginning  of  England's  recorded  history  which 
can  be  accounted  for  on  no  other  supposition  than  that  they 
survived  the  English  conquest.  At  all  events,  Roman  civiliza- 
tion soon  again  asserted  its  power.  This  time  it  came  in  the 
form  of  the  Christian  Church.  So  great  was  its  influence  that 
the  supposed  Germanic  townships  disappear,  and  in  their  places 
are  found  parishes,  or  divisions  of  the  former  kingdoms,  —  now 
shires.  What  there  was  of  local  government  was  taken  care  of 
by  these  parishes,  except  where  feudal  institutions  overwhelmed 
them.  The  Church  became  paramount  in  local  concerns.  In 
this  way  English  local  government  must  have  been  largely 
influenced  by  Romanic  ideas,  if  it  were  not  partly  Romanic 
in  its  origin.  It  follows,  therefore,  from  this  that  the  more 
accurately  the  local  institutions  of  the   England  of  recorded 
 - 288 - 
1892.]  GENESIS   OF   THE   MASSACHUSETTS   TOWN.  249 
history  fit  the  description  of  Germany  by  Tacitus,  just  so 
much  more  it  is  evident  that  what  Tacitus  described  in  his 
"  Germania  "  was,  as  stated  above,  a  Romanized  Germanic 
village  community. 
Starting  out  with  the  English  local  organization  of  the  epoch 
of  written  English  history,  whether  Germanic  or  Romanic  or 
Romano-Germanic,  it  is  by  no  means  an  easy  task  to  trace 
those  institutions  through  the  intervening  years  until  the 
Puritan  conquest  of  New  England.  In  the  first  place,  there 
were  the  Danes.  They  came  to  England,  and  settled  down  in 
the  northern  and  eastern  parts,  driving  the  English  before  them, 
or  at  all  events  conquering  them  ;  and  the  Wessex  kings  could 
not  drive  them  out,  but  were  obliged  to  confirm  that  part  of 
England  to  them.  It  so  happens  that  it  was  in  these  same 
eastern  counties  that  Puritanism  obtained  its  strongest  foot- 
hold, and  it  is  from  them  that  many  or  perhaps  most  of  the 
ancestors  of  our  New  England  families  come.  It  follows  from 
this  that  in  all  probability  many,  if  not  most  of  us,  strike  our 
roots,  or  at  least  a  large  part  of  them,  in  the  rocky  soil  of 
Scandinavia  and  the  Islands,  and  not  in  the  marshes  of  the 
Elbe  and  the  Weser.  Now,  the  dividing  line  between  Angle 
and  Jute,  on  the  one  hand,  and  Dane  and  Northman  on  the 
other,  is  by  no  means  an  easy  line  to  discover.  Perhaps  there 
was  no  dividing  line.  The  languages  and  institutions  of  these 
folks  were  very  similar.  Indeed,  their  origins  may  have  been 
the  same,  and  we  may  class  them  all  as  Germans.  But  whether 
like  or  unlike  the  conquered  English,  these  Northmen  were  of 
as  sturdy  and  institution-creating  a  race  as  the  English.  It  is 
most  probable  that  much  we  call  English  is  due  to  the  Danes 
and  other  Northmen.  In  fact,  this  early  Danish  conquest  of 
Northern  and  Eastern  England  was,  to  all  intents  and  purposes, 
a  re-Germanizing  of  that  part  of  England.  But  it  is  not  of 
these  Danes  that  most  writers  are  thinking,  when  they  speak 
of  the  Germanic  origin  of  English  institutions. 
Thus  English  institutions  of  the  time  of  the  Norman  con- 
quest were  of  Keltic,  Romanic,  Germanic,  and  Scandinavianic 
origin  ;  and  if  we  could  trace  our  institutions  back  to  the  Eng- 
land of  
that  time,  it  would  be  proper  to  speak  of  the  Keltic- 
Romanic-Germanic-Scandinavianic  origin  of  New  England 
towns.  But  it  is  by  no  means  clear  that  we  can  do  even  this  ; 
for  the  Norman  conquest  must  have  affected  to  some  degree 
32 
 - 289 - 
250  MASSACHUSETTS   HISTOEICAL   SOCIETY.  [Jan. 
the  local  organization  of  England,  and  the  Angevin  coming 
was  in  reality  a  French  conquest  of  England.  French  idea's, 
or  Frankish  ideas,  very  deeply  overlaid  with  Romano-Keltic 
civilization,  now  replaced  Keltic-Romanic-Germanic-Scandina- 
vianic-Normanic  ideas  of  the  time  of  Henry  I.  Some  of  the 
old  local  liberty  was  recovered,  no  doubt,  during  the  time  of 
John  and  his  son  and  of  the  Hundred  Years'  War.  On  the 
other  hand,  much  of  this  regained  liberty  must  have  been.lost 
during  the  anarchy  of  the  Wars  of  the  Roses.  So  it  seems  that 
in  many  ways  England  took  a  new  start  during  the  Tudor 
period,  not  merely  in  the  ways  that  we  associate  with  the  Re- 
formation, but  
institutionally  as  well  ;  
though,  perhaps,  most  of 
the  new  ideas  might  be  traced  directly  to  the  Reformation. 
It  is  impossible,  therefore,  to  trace  Germanic  institutions 
through  English  history  from  Germany  to  New  England.  We 
must  take  England  as  we  find  it  at  the  close  of  the  Tudor 
period  and  during  the  reign  of  the  first  Stuart.  It  was  during 
the  years  1588-1630  that  our  Puritan  founders  were  gaining 
their  political  education.  It  is  the  England  of  that  time  that 
those  who  would  seek  the  springs  of  our  national  life  must 
study,  and  not  the  England  of  the  sixth  century.  Just  so  far 
as  we  can  trace  an  institution  back  from  Puritan  England  to 
Germany,  Scandinavia,  Rome,  or  early  Britain,  just  so  far  can 
we  speak  of  the  Germanic,  Scandinavianic,  Romanic,  or  Keltic 
origin  of  New  England  institutions. 
Recognizing  the  impossibility  of  thus  tracing  our  institu- 
tions, the  advocates  of  the  Germanic-origin  theory  argue  from 
analogies.  The  danger  of  such  a  mode  of  argument  may  be 
seen  by  its  results  as  above  noted.  Mr.  Adams  and  Judge 
Chamberlain  have  dealt  so  fully  with  this  part  of  the  subject 
that  it  would  be  useless  for  me  to  say  anything.  Certain 
things,  such  as  defensive  palings,  etc.,  seem  to  belong  to  cer- 
tain environments  and  to  certain  stages  in  racial  development. 
The  argument  that  because  a  New  England  town  and  a  Ger- 
man village  were  each  surrounded  by  a  defensive  wall,  the 
one  is  descended  from  the  other,  proves  too  much.  A  similar 
line  of  argument  would  prove  the  origin  of  New  England 
towns  to  be  the  Massai  enclosure  of  Central  Africa  or  the 
Rome  of  our  school-boy  days. 
Mr.  Adams  and  Judge  Aldrich  and  Judge  Chamberlain  have 
so  fully  disposed  of  the  "  primordial  germ  "  theory  of  the  "  Con- 
necticut School,"  that  I  will  do  no  more  than  add  my  voice 
 - 290 - 
1892.]  GENESIS   OF   THE   MASSACHUSETTS   TOWN.  251 
to  the  chorus  of  condemnation.  Our  towns  were  of  legal 
origin,  and  our  State  was  of  legal  origin.  As  subjects  of 
the  King  of  England,  the  people  of  Plymouth,  Rhode  Island, 
and  Connecticut  were  legally  and  constitutionally  entitled  to 
govern  themselves,  until  the  king  made  some  other  disposition, 
or  sent  a  governor  of  his  own  to  govern  them.  The  Con- 
necticut towns  enjoyed  no  rights  except  what  they  enjoyed 
under  the  crown.  All  power  in  Plymouth  or  Connecticut  was 
as  surely  from  the  crown  as  was  the  power  of  towns  in  Massa- 
chusetts, or  of  parishes  in  Virginia  from  the  crown.  The 
theory  that  an  Englishman,  coming  across  the  water,  placed 
himself  outside  of  the  English  Constitution  is  entirely  without 
foundation.  So  long  as  he  enjoyed  protection,  he  owed  alle- 
giance, and  so  long  as  he  owed  allegiance,  he  was  subject  to  the 
English  Constitution,  whether  in  Providence  or  London. 
Nine  years  ago,  in  an  essay  on  the  origin  of  local  govern- 
ment, I  
used  these  words  :  — 
"  The  exact  form  which  the  local  organization  of  each  colony  should 
assume,  depended  on  (1)  the  economic  conditions  of  the  colony  ;  
(2)  the 
experience  in  the  management  of  local  concerns  which  its  founders 
brought  from  the  mother-country;  and  (3)  the  form  of  church  govern- 
ment and  land  system  which  should  be  found  expedient."  ' 
On  page  8  of  the  same  essay  I  stated,  in  explanation  of  the 
second  factor  in  this  development,  that  "  this  education  was 
acquired  at  the  town  council,  the  county  court,  and  the  parish 
meeting."  As  there  was  no  account  of  the  English  town  or 
parish  system  of  the  later  Tudor  and  earlier  Stuart  period  in 
existence,  I  included  a  brief  account  of  that  institution  in  my 
essay.  Toward  the  end  of  that  paper  I  said  that  both  the 
Southern  parish  and  the  New  England  town  were  "  survi- 
vals "  
of  the  English  Common  Law  parish  of  1600.  Since 
writing  that  paper,  I  have  twice  gone  over  the  same  ground, 
and  do  not  find  myself  in  a  position  to  change  or  to  modify 
the  opinions  then  expressed,  except  that  perhaps  I  should  now 
use  the  word  "  representative  "  instead  of  "  survival." 
It  has  been  stated  elsewhere  2  that  English  writers  are  not 
agreed  as  to  the  origin  of  the  parish,  and  extracts  have  been 
given  to  show  this.  The  first  authority  cited  on  this  point  is 
"Brande."  The  name  was  unfamiliar  to  me.  But  after  look- 
ing in  
the  bibliographies  of  English  local  history  without  meet- 
1  Town  and  County  Government,  p.  1.  2  Ante,  pf  221. 
 - 291 - 
252  MASSACHUSETTS  HISTORICAL   SOCIETY.  [Jan. 
ing  it,  I  looked  on  the  titlepage  of  the  book  itself, —  "A 
Dictionary  of  Science,  Literature,  and  Art."  It  appears  that 
"  William  T.  Brande,  Professor  of  Chemistry,"  was  the  editor- 
in-chief,  and  he  had  the  assistance  of  a  small  corps  of  special- 
ists. The  article  on  "  Parish,"  however,  is  not  signed.  It 
seems  to  have  been  compiled  from  Joseph  Bingham's  "Origines 
Ecclesiasticse."  The  first  part  of  this  work  was  published  in 
1708  ;  the  second  part,  containing  the  matter  here  noted,  was 
published  in  1711.  Brande's  "  Dictionary  of  Science  "  was 
published  in  1842.  The  passage  quoted  by  our  associate  is 
as  follows  :  — 
"  [Parish.]  Probably  an  ecclesiastical  division  of  a  town  or  district 
subject  to  the  ministry  of  one  pastor.  In  the  earliest  ages  of  the 
church  the  parochia  was  the  district  placed  under  the  superintendence 
of  the  bishop,  and  was  equivalent  to  diocese.  It  denoted,  says  Bing- 
ham, not  only  what  we  now  call  a  parish  church,  but  a  city  with  its 
adjacent  towns  or  country  regions." 
The  last  sentence  is  extracted  from  Bingham's  "  Origines," 
vol.  iii.  p.  513,  ed.  of  1711.  As  an  authority  on  the  subject 
of  the  origin  of  English  local  institutions,  I  am  informed  that 
Bingham,  chemically  interpreted  by  Professor  Brande,  is  abso- 
lutely worthless,  —  is,  in  fact,  no  authority  whatever. 
The  theory  of  the  ''secular  origin  of  the  parish"  is  thus 
stated  by  Toulmin  Smith  :  — 
"An  examination  of  the  most  authentic  records  shows  that  the 
parish  is  the  original  secular  division  of  the  land.1  .  .  .  
There  can  be  no 
doubt  that  either  the  name  parish  has  become  substituted  for  that  of 
tithing  (if  the  latter  was  ever  used  territorially)  to  express  the  same 
division  of  the  land,  or  the  division  of  the  tithing  has  given  way  for 
precisely  the  same  purposes  to  the  one  which  we  now  call  Parish."2 
In  a  note  he  adds  that  "  tun  "  (town)  is  the  old  name  for 
"  tithing."  Unless  I  am  very  greatly  mistaken,  what  Smith 
had  in  mind  was  that  the  original  secular  division  of  the  land 
was  the  tithing,  town,  or  '*  
tun,"  and  that  the  Parish  was  the 
tithing,  town,  or  "  tun  "  under  another  name.  This  certainly 
is  the  interpretation  which  has  been  placed  on  this  part  of  his 
argument  by  the  leading  writers.  For  example,  Bishop  Stubbs, 
who,  by  the  way,  is  better  authority  on  these  subjects  than 
1  The  Parish,  p.  15.  2  Ibid.  p.  16. 
 - 292 - 
1892.]  GENESIS   OF   THE  MASSACHUSETTS  TOWN.  253 
the  chemical  Brande  or  the  antiquated  Bingham,  gives  Smith's 
"  Parish  "  as  one  of  his  authorities  for  the  following  descrip- 
tion of  
the  origin  of  the  parish  :  — 
"  The  historical  township  is  the  body  of  allodial  owners  who  have 
advanced  beyond  the  stage  of  land-community,  retaining  many  vestiges 
of  that  organization  ;  or  the  body  of  tenants  of  a  lord  who  regulates 
them  or  allows  them  to  regulate  themselves  on  principles  derived  from 
the  same.  ...  In  a  further  stage  the  township  appears  in  its  ecclesias- 
tical form  as  the  parish.1  ...  In  small  parishes  the  idea  and  even  name 
of  township  is  frequently  at  the  present  day  sunk  in  that  of  the  parish  ; 
and  all  the  business  that  is  not  manorial  is  despatched  in  vestry 
meetings." 
In  another  place,  in  speaking  of  tithing,  Stubbs  says  it  is 
quite  possible  that  the  name  itself  as  well  as  the  functions 
merged  in  those  of  the  township.  Again  he  reiterates  the  fact 
that  "the  parish  then  is  the  ancient  vicus  or  tun-scipe  re- 
garded ecclesiastically  "  ;  and  finally  he  says  that  the  township 
represented  the  principle  of  the  mark,  and  formed  "  the  basis 
of  the  parish." 
The  Hon.  Arthur  Elliott,  whose  description  of  the  parish 
as  it  exists  at  this  moment  is  the  best  we  have,  follows  Smith 
and  Stubbs  when  he  says  :  "  In  its  origin  the  parish  was 
probably  framed  on  the  township."2  Still  another  recent 
writer,  Laurence  Gomme,  author  of  "  Primitive  Folk-moots  " 
and  a  master  in  this  field  of  study,  says:  "  The  township  under 
its  ecclesiastical  name  of  the  parish  has  become  the  adminis- 
trative unit  of  the  state  machinery."  3  On  another  page  he 
says  :  "  It  is  very  important  to  bear  in  mind  the  original  secular 
as  well  as  sacred  position  of  the  parish  church."  4 
As  to  the  secular  character  of  the  parish  officers,  Toulmin 
Smith,  in  the  following  «  admirable  "  (according  to  Gomme) 
sentence,  thus  expresses  his  view  :  "  Churchwardens  are  secu- 
lar officers  .  .  .  They  have  many  important  duties,  —  the 
greater  part  of  which  concern  matters  that  have  nothing  at 
all  to  do  with  the  church."  5     The  same  idea  is    expressed 
1  Constitutional  History  of  England,  vol.  i.  
p.  
85. 
2  Church  and  State,  p.  55. 
8  Literature  of  Local  Institutions,  p.  200. 
*  Ibid.  p.  213. 
5  Smith's  article  on  the  Church  Rate  Question,  1856,  quoted  by  Gomme,  Lit- 
erature of  
Local  Institutions,  p.  214. 
 - 293 - 
254  MASSACHUSETTS   HISTOEICAL   SOCIETY.  [Jan. 
more  strongly  still  by  Stubbs  in  the  following  extract,  which 
is  also  interesting  as  showing  Stubbs's  idea  that  the  vestry, 
parish  meeting,  and  town  gemot  are  descended  one  from  the 
other  : — 
"  In  the  vestry  meeting  the  freemen  of  the  township,  the  rate-payers, 
still  assemble  for  purposes  of  local  interest,  not  involved  in  the  mano- 
rial interest  ;  elect  the  parish  officers,  properly  the  township  officers,  for 
there  is  no  primary  connection  between  the  maintenance  of  roads  and 
collection  of  taxes  and  the  parish  as  an  ecclesiastical  unity,  —  the 
churchwardens,1  the  way  wardens,  the  assessors,  and  overseers  of  the 
poor.  .  .  .  The  vestry  is  the  representative  of  the  gemot,  with  which 
it  was  once  identical." 
There  is  therefore  as  complete  accord  between  Smith  and 
Stubbs,  Elliott  and  Gomme,  as  could  with  any  fairness  be 
expected,  considering  the  great  advantages  in  the  way  of 
material  enjoyed  by  the  latter.  Smith  broke  the  way  for  the 
student  of  English  local  history,  and  produced  a  book  which 
after  the  lapse  of  thirty  years  is  still  declared  to  be  "  the 
most  important  book  "  on  this  subject  by  one  of  the  very 
best  judges,2  It  is  seldom  given  to  a  pioneer  to  achieve 
so  large  a  measure  of  success.  Nor  does  it  detract  from 
the  merit  of  the  work  in  my  eyes  that  it  was  written  with 
a  view  to  securing  a  return  to  the  method  of  local  self- 
government  enjoyed  by  the  English  at  the  time  of  the  Puritan 
Emigration.  On  the  contrary,  it  seems  to  me  that  the  aim  was 
one  which  should  appeal  to  every  New  Englander.  Apart 
from  this,  however,  the  book  is  invaluable  as  containing 
records  extracted  by  Smith  from  the  originals  and  still  un- 
published. I  
have  verified  hundreds  of  his  references,  —  all 
that  I  could  verify  relating  to  my  subject,  — ■  
and  it  should 
be  stated  that  Smith  was  more  accurate  in  his  quotations 
than  was  usual  at  the  time  he  wrote.3 
It  makes  no  difference  to  us  whether  the  theory  of  the  secu- 
lar origin  of  the  parish  is  correct  or  not.  It  is  held  by  all  the 
leading  writers  on  the  subject,  though,  as  above  pointed  out, 
it  does  not  seem  to  me  that  we  have  yet  enough  data  to  make 
any  sound  generalization  on  the  early  institutional  history  of 
England.     What  does  concern  us  is  the  secular  character  of 
1  The  Italics  are  mine. 
2  Laurence  Gomme,  Literature  of  Local  Institutions,  p.  227. 
3  For  a  further  estimate  see  Town  and  County,  p.  9,  note  1. 
 - 294 - 
1892.]  GENESIS   OF  THE   MASSACHUSETTS   TOWN.  255 
the  parish  in  1600-1680.  It  should  be  stated,  perhaps,  that  so 
far  as  the  records  show,  the  Canons  of  1603  made  almost  no 
difference,  —  it  had  been  the  custom  in  many  parishes  for  the 
parson  to  appoint  one  warden  for  many  years.  The  Canons 
of  1603  were  never  legally  binding,  as  they  were  never  con- 
firmed by  
act  of  Parliament.  It  should  also  be  noted  that 
Laud  had  nothing  to  do  with  the  ecclesiastical  government  of 
England  until  later,  —  as  indeed  our  associate  points  out. 
Without  writing  an  essay  on  the  subject,  I  wish  to  enforce 
what  Smith  and  Stubbs  have  said  as  to  the  secular  nature  of 
the  churchwarden's  office,  and  in  doing  that  to  show  the  nature 
of  the  functions  discharged  by  the  parish.  In  reading  this 
statement  it  should  be  borne  in  mind  that  the  churchwardens 
are  the  administrative  officers  of  the  vestry,  and  that  the  ves- 
try was  the  common  or  open  vestry  or  parish  meeting  of  all 
the  parishioners.  I  take  the  following  particulars  from  the 
Churchwarden's  Accounts  of  Tavistock.  Let  us  take  the  pay- 
ments for  
one  year  and  divide  them  into  two  classes,  —  pay- 
ments for  religious  objects  and  payments  for  secular  objects. 
The  year  selected  is  1605,  and  it  is  selected  simply  because 
it  was  a  year  of  profound  peace.  The  churchwardens  of 
Tavistock  in  that  year  paid  out  seventy-one  pounds  sterling, 
divided  as  follows  :  for  religious  objects  ;  
for  lifting  the  fourth 
bell  *,  
for  the  expenses  of  the  visitation  ;  
for  the  parishioners 
not  wearing  caps  on  Sundays;  for  repairing  graves;  for 
mending  the  leads.  The  items  for  secular  objects  are  much 
more  numerous,  as  follows  :  — 
"  For  drawing  of  stones  to  the  East  Bridge,  for  carrying  home  the 
moore  stones  for  the  East  Bridge  ;  carrying  of  stones  to  the  East 
Bridge,  and  for  earth  for  the  same  ;  for  the  removal  of  the  rubble  from 
the  higher  market  house  and  from  the  church  bridge  ;  
for  a  new  coat 
for  William  Jane  ;  
for  mending  the  East  Bridge  ;  
to  J.  Arthur  the  cob- 
bler, to  go  to  Lamerton  with  a  vagrant  person  ;  
for  keeping  clean  of 
the  church  armor  ;  
for  mending  the  pavement  of  the  church  bridge  ;  
for 
wood  which  was  burnt  at  the  coronation  day  ;  
for  the  relief  of  the  town 
of  Otterye  ;  
for  mending  the  cage."1 
Other  entries  in  these  records  seem  to  point  to  a  system  of 
public  education  in  the  parish,  as  for  example  :  u  Paid  Mr. 
Clearke    the  schoolmaster  for  one    quarter  year's  teaching." 
1  Tavistock  Churchwarden's  Accounts,  1605-1G06. 
 - 295 - 
256  MASSACHUSETTS   HISTORICAL   SOCIETY.  [Jan. 
This  is  under  date  of  1629-1630.  These  accounts  are  not  given 
in  full  by  the  editor  ;  
but  it  appears  that  there  was  a  public 
school  as  early  as  1588,  for  in  that  year  "  John  Drake,  the 
schoolmaster,  for  teaching  in  the  Grammar  School,"  was  paid 
twelve  pounds,  and  "  Nicholas  Watts,  for  teaching  of  the  little 
children,"  was  paid  four  pounds.  There  was  also  a  parish 
schoolhouse  in  1588,  because  in  that  year  nine  pence  was  paid 
"  for  a  chain  and  setting  in  thereof  for  the  fastening  of  the 
Dictionary  in  the  Schoolhouse."  In  1657  a  great  deal  of  work 
was  done  about  the  schoolhouse  ;  
but  whether  in  the  nature  of 
repairs  or  in  the  building  of  a  new  house  cannot  be  stated. 
The  parish  was  also  the  unit  of  the  military  system,  every 
parish  being  required  to  keep  on  hand  certain  arms  and  equip- 
ments, and  to  provide  when  necessary  the  soldiers  to  use  them. 
The  Churchwarden's  accounts  show  how  this  duty  was  dis- 
charged. For  instance,  in  1627-1628,  the  churchwardens  of 
Tavistock  paid  five  pounds  for  powder  and  match,  and  ten 
pence  for  a  satchel  to  carry  this  powder  in ;  and  also  paid  the 
trained  soldiers  who  went  on  service  to  Plymouth  one  pound 
two  shillings,  and  the  church  armor  was  cleaned  every  year. 
I  will  close  this  exemplification  of  the  secular  nature  of  the 
Churchwarden's  office  with  the  following  entry  as  to  the 
choosing  a  committee  to  take  charge  of  the  poor,  long  before 
the  Act  of  43  Elizabeth.  The  date  is  1585,  and  the  words 
used  are  interesting  :  After  giving  the  names  of  eight  persons, 
the  record  proceeds  to  explain  that  these  men  were  "  selected 
and  chosen  the  eight  men  by  general  assent  and  consent  of  the 
parish  of  Tavistock,  to  be  Supervisors  and  dispensators  to  and 
for  the  behoof  of  the  poor  people  of  said  Church  and  parish."  2 
No  conclusion  can  be  based  on  the  records  of  one  parish  ;  
but 
when  the  records  of  a  dozen  parishes  scattered  over  England 
agree  in  certain  points,  and  show  furthermore  that  the  parish 
was  doing  what  the  law  required  of  them,  this  agreement  is  a 
good  basis,  it  seems  to  me,  for  a  theory  as  to  the  actual  state 
of  affairs  in  the  English  early  seventeenth-century  parishes. 
I  hope  at  no  distant  day  to  lay  the  results  of  this  study  before 
the  Society. 
The  relative  importance  given  to  the  influence  of  govern- 
ment and  to  the  influence  of  inherited  or  acquired  experience 
seems  to  be  the  precise  point    on  which  my  friends,  Judge 
1  Calendar  of  the  Tavistock  Parish  Kecords,  p.  92. 
 - 296 - 
1892.]  GENESIS   OF   THE   MASSACHUSETTS  TOWN.  257 
Aldrich,  Mr.  Adams,  Mr.  Goodell,  and  Judge  Chamberlain,  and 
I  join  issue.  Perhaps  the  reason  why  I  assign  so  little  impor- 
tance to  the  governmental  organization  is  because  my  re- 
searches, extended  far  beyond  the  limits  of  Massachusetts, 
have  convinced  me  that  the  differences  in  the  local  organiza- 
tions  of  the  North  and  South  can  be  easily  accounted  for  by 
the  different  economic  and  social  conditions  ;  and  furthermore, 
it  may  be  stated  broadly,  I  think,  that,  leaving  out  the  influ- 
ence of  
the  central  government  and  of  the  ecclesiastical  or- 
ganization, except  as  the  latter  affected  the  social  fabric  as 
distinguished  from  the  political  fabric,  the  local  government 
of  Massachusetts  and  Virginia  would  have  been  precisely  what 
it  was  in  1760  ;  
for  the  two  leading  factors  were  the  environ- 
ment and  the  experience  of  the  managers  of  the  enterprise. 
Economic  conditions  prescribed  the  settlement  of  Virginia  in 
a  certain  way,  and  legislative  enactments  were  not  able  to 
overrule  her  destiny.  In  Massachusetts  the  environment  of  the 
colonists  prescribed  an  entirely  different  mode  of  settlement  ; 
and  Massachusetts  has  marched  along  the  lines  then  laid 
down,  regardless  of  changed  governments  and  religions. 
There  are  natural  laws  governing  the  relations  of  man  with 
his  fellow-men  as  surely  as  there  are  natural  laws  governing 
the  flow  of  water.  Against  these  natural  laws  legislative 
enactments  are  powerless;  so,  too,  are  traditions  and  experi- 
ence acquired  under  other  conditions  of  environment.  But 
experience  and  legislative  enactments  determine,  to  a  great 
extent,  the  early  form  of  colonial  institutions.  In  Massachu- 
setts experience  seems  to  have  been  the  determining  cause, 
and  the  legislature  seems  to  have  accepted  the  form  dictated 
by  experience.  All  this  is  directly  opposed,  on  the  face  of  it, 
to  Judge  Aldrich's  and  Judge  Chamberlain's  view. 
Judge  Chamberlain  has  said  that  we  have  "  the  lading  of 
the  ships  in  which  they  came,"  and  that  "  we  nowhere  find 
mention  of  Magna  Charta,  the  British  Constitution,  the  Peti- 
tion of  
Right,  or  English  institutions.,,  *  I  have  never  seen  the 
bill  of  lading  of  the  "  Arbella,"  for  example,  and  therefore  can- 
not state  accurately  that  they  did  bring  these  things.  But 
what  was  the  English  Constitution  ?  Who  knows  ?  1  for  one 
do  not  know  what  it  was  in  1630  ;  but  it  included  within  its 
broad  fold  Magna  Charta,  the  Petition  of  Right,  and  English 
1  2  Proceedings,  vol.  v.  pp.  267,  268. 
 - 297 - 
258  MASSACHUSETTS   HISTORICAL   SOCIETY.  [Jan. 
institutions.  It  is  one  of  those  things  I  should  not  expect  to 
find  on  a  bill  of  lading.  The  English  constitution  consisted  in 
the  statutes  of  Parliament  and  the  customs  of  the  realm.  It 
would  have  been  impossible  to  have  brought  these  in  the 
"  Arbella."  But  I  make  no  doubt  that  in  that  fleet  there  were 
books  containing  Magna  Charta,  the  Petition  of  Right,  and 
other  important  statutes.  Probably  also  there  were  treatises 
on  the  Constitution,  such  as  Coke's  Institutes,  —  a  second  edi- 
tion of  
which  came  out  not  long  before  the  "  Arbella"  sailed. 
Then,  too,  there  were  probably  in  the  libraries  of  the  founders 
of  the  colony  books  like  Lambard's  "  Justices  "  and  "  Consta- 
bles," treating  of  the  duties  of  various  officers  which  the  Com- 
pany appointed  almost  as  soon  as  they  reached  the  shores  of 
the  new  home.  Copies  of  these  books,  which  were  in  New 
England  at  an  early  day,  are  still  to  be  seen  in  our  libraries. 
But  whether  they  had  these  documents  or  not,  the  English 
Constitution  followed  them.  In  those  days  of  inalienable  alle- 
giance one  could  not  shake  off  one's  nationality  as  a  dog  shakes 
the  water  from  his  coat.  Furthermore,  there  is  no  evidence  to 
show  that  our  forefathers  wished  to  do  anything  of  the  kind. 
Their  land  was  granted  from  the  crown  ;  they  were  in  enjoy- 
ment of  
the  protection  of  England,  and  hence  enjoyed  as  much 
of  the  common  and  statute  laws  of  England  as  was  applicable 
to  their  circumstances.  By  their  coming  hither  with  a  license 
from  the  king  to  found  and  govern  a  colony,  they  brought 
with  them  as  part  of  themselves  the  English  Constitution.  It 
was  not  necessary,  therefore,  to  mention  the  Constitution  of 
England  in  the  bill  of  lading  of  the  u  Arbella."  But  apart  from 
the  constitutional  view  of  the  case,  is  it  reasonable  to  suppose 
that  a  leader  of  the  Massachusetts  Colony  divested  himself  of 
his  experience  as  an  Englishman  when  he  left  England  ?  Let 
us  take  John  Winthrop  as  an  example.  So  far  as  I  have  been 
able  to  discover,  John  Winthrop  was  regarded  as  a  most  val- 
uable acquisition  to  the  Massachusetts  enterprise.  He  himself 
says  that,  "in  all  probability,  the  welfare  of  the  plantation 
depends  on  my  assistance  ;  
for  the  main  pillars  of  it,  being 
gentlemen  of  high  quality  and  eminent  parts,  both  for  wisdom 
and  godliness,  are  determined  to  sit  still  if  I  desert  them." 
Winthrop  was  a  man  of  skill  and  experience  in  the  manage- 
ment of  
affairs  ;  shall  we  suppose  that  when  embarking  on  the 
"  Arbella"  he  divested  himself  of  his  political  skill  and  experi- 
ence, as  one  takes  off  one's  overcoat  ?     It  is  true  that  his  expe- 
 - 298 - 
1892.]  GENESIS   OF   THE   MASSACHUSETTS   TOWN.  259 
rience  was  probably  not  mentioned  among  the  contents  of  the 
"  Arbella."  But  John  Winthrop  was  mentioned,  and  the 
name  "  John  Winthrop  "  must  be  held  to  have  included  not 
merely  his  physical  body,  but  his  talents  and  experience  ;  and 
so  with  Ludlow  and  the  rest.  And  when  they  settled  here 
they  applied  their  experience  to  the  problems  which  confronted 
them  in  their  new  homes,  as  they  had  applied  it  to  the  solution 
of  the  problems  which  arose  in  the  old  home.  For  example, 
many  of  them  had  been  Justices  of  the  Peace  in  the  old 
home.  One  of  the  very  first  things  the  leaders  of  the  enter- 
prise did  was  to  establish  the  system  of  justices  of  the  peace 
bodily  in  Massachusetts  as  it  then  existed  in  England,  by  the 
following  vote  passed  at  the  first  Court  of  Assistants  held  in 
Massachusetts,  August  23,  1630  :  — 
"  Ordered,  That  the  Governor  and  Deputy  Governor  for  the  time 
being,  shall  always  be  Justices  of  the  Peace  ;  and  that  Sir  Rich  :  
Sal  ton- 
stall,  M-  Johnson,  M-  Endicott,  and  M-  Ludlow  shall  be  Justices  of  the 
Peace  for  the  present  time,  in  all  things  to  have  like  power  that  Justices 
of  the  Peace  hath  in  England  for  reformation  of  abuses  and  punishing 
of  offenders." 
This  last  clause  really  gives  us  no  information  that  the  stu- 
dent of  
institutions  does  not  possess  from  a  careful  study  of  the 
subject.  For  we  see  by  a  study  of  the  records  that  at  first 
the  magistrates  or  some  of  them  exercised  the  same  powers 
that  justices  of  the  peace  exercised  in  England.  So  in  like 
manner  the  student  finds  that  in  their  management  of  town 
affairs,  so  far  as  the  problems  here  were  the  same  as  the  prob- 
lems solved  in  England,  they  managed  their  town  affairs  here 
as  they  had  done  in  England.  This  is  hardly  to  be  called 
reasoning  from  analogies,  because  in  the  case  of  one  town  at 
least  (Dorchester)  there  is  scarcely  a  break  in  the  chain  of 
historical  evidence.  Where  the  records  are  silent  and  we  can- 
not fill  them  from  other  sources,  the  advocates  of  the  conti- 
nuity of  
institutional  history  have  as  much'right  to  reason  from 
analogies  as  the  student  of  the  older  historical  school  has  to 
argue  from  imagination. 
There  is  a  gap  in  the  history  of  the  settlement  of  Massachu- 
setts which  I  hope  may  sometime  be  filled,  as  I  feel  confident 
that  a  search  in  the  parish  chests  and  other  local  deposits  of 
documents  in  England  will  reveal  information  on  these  points. 
 - 299 - 
260  MASSACHUSETTS   HISTORICAL   SOCIETY.  [Jan. 
We  really  know  very  little  of  Massachusetts  from  the  signing 
of  the  agreement  at  Cambridge  on  August  29,  1629,  to  the 
year  1635,  when  the  local  records  become  abundant.  In  the 
summer  and  autumn  of  1629  the  plans  of  the  Massachusetts 
colonists  seem  to  have  undergone  a  complete  change,  or  it 
may  be  that  old  plans  which  had  been  for  a  time  suspended 
were  now  brought  forVard  and  put  into  execution.  From 
the  statement  in  Winthrop's  "  Essay  in  Vindication  of  Massa- 
chusetts "  
from  the  charge  of  being  an  arbitrary  government, 
it  would  seem  that  even  when  the  charter  was  procured  it  was 
designed  to  establish  the  government  of  the  Company  in  the 
colony  precisely  as  was  afterward  done.  At  all  events  in  the 
summer  and  autumn  of  1629  it  was  determined  to  found  a  self- 
governing  (under  the  Crown)  colony  in  Massachusetts  in  place 
of  the  colony  which  had  up  to  that  time  been  governed  from 
London  as  former  colonies  had  been  governed.  There  must 
have  been  many  conferences  as  to  land-holding  and  local  self- 
government  in  the  New  World  of  which  we  now  have  no 
information.  It  is  not  conceivable  that  men  like  Ludlow, 
Johnson,  and  Saltonstall  and  their  followers  should  have  sold 
a  large  part  of  their  property  in  England  and  embarked  for 
Massachusetts  without  some  guarant}^  as  to  their  lot  in  the 
colony.  Probably  there  was  much  correspondence  which  is 
not  now  known,  and  there  may  have  been  agreements  between 
the  Company  and  bands  of  colonists  which  were  entered  on 
the  record  or  placed  among  the  files  of  the  Company  but  have 
never  been  printed.  It  seems  susceptible  of  proof  that  Lud- 
low, Warham,  and  Maverick  with  their  followers  came  over 
here  expecting  to  live  together,  and  so  far  as  I  have  been 
able  to  follow  the  matter,  others  expected  to  settle  down  with 
Salton stall  and  Phillips. 
The  Dorchester  people  "  resolved  to  live  together  "  before 
they  left  England.  They  came  over  here  in  the  "  Mary  and 
John,"  and  arrived  in  advance  of  Winthrop  and  the  rest.  They 
"  landed  in  health,"  according  to  Clap,  on  May  30.  They  then 
explored  the  harbor,  went  up  Charles  River,  and  finally  settled 
down  at  Mattapan.  On  June  12  the  "  Arbella  "  with  Winthrop 
arrived  at  Salem.  On  June  17  Winthrop  reached  what  is  now 
Boston  Harbor,  and  on  June  18  he  arranged  some  differences 
between  Captain  Squib  and  his  passengers,  who  are  described 
by  Winthrop  in  his  Journal  as  "  set  down  at  Mattapan."     It 
 - 300 - 
1892.]  GENESIS   OF  THE  MASSACHUSETTS   TOWN.  261 
seems  to  me,  therefore,  that  so  far  as  we  have  any  records  they 
go  to  show  that  the  Dorchester  people  came  over  here  as  a 
community,  and  settled  down  on  a  site  of  their  own  selection, 
without  asking  the  permission  of  Endicott,  who  was  then  the 
Governor  mentioned  in  the  vote  as  to  land  of  May  21,  or  ask- 
ing or  receiving  permission  from  Winthrop  when  he  arrived 
more  than  two  weeks  later.  Moreover,  the  early  records  are 
singularly  vague  and  silent  as  to  a  confirmation  of  land  to 
these  people,  or  giving  them  any  rights  of  local  government. 
At  one  of  the  early  meetings  of  the  Company  the  name  Mat- 
tapan  was  changed  to  Dorchester;  but  there  is  nothing  in 
the  early  records  of  the  Company  as  to  the  limits  of  Dorchester 
or  of  the  other  early  towns.  These  Dorchester  people  too,  so 
far  as  the  records  show,  were  given  no  authority  by  the  Gen- 
eral Court  to  allot  lands  and  elect  a  committee  to  manage  their 
business  affairs,  or  indeed  to  manage  their  business  affairs 
themselves  unless  the  phrase  "  Mattapan  shall  be  called  Dor- 
chester "  
conferred  those  rights.  The  Dorchester  records  begin 
in  1632,  and  for  a  time  contain  no  entries  except  as  to  the  allot- 
ment of  
lands.  In  1633,  however,  comes  the  record  cited  in 
"  Town  and  County  Government,  p.  28,"  and  by  Professor 
Howard,  and  now  by  Mr.  Adams,  which  provides  for  general 
meetings  of  all  the  inhabitants  to  manage  the  affairs  of  the 
town,  and  for  the  selection  of  a  committee  to  look  after  the 
business  in  the  interims  between  these  general  meetings  of 
all  the  inhabitants.  A  year  and  a  half  later  the  General  Court 
recognized  the  system  of  town  government  which  had  then 
grown  up,  not  in  Dorchester  alone,  but  in  the  other  towns  as 
well,  so  far  as  any  record  we  have  shows  ;  and  while  confirming 
the  usage,  restricted  the  right  to  vote  in  these  affairs  to  free- 
men. From  this  starting-point  the  town  system  developed  as 
the  circumstances  of  the  place  and  the  political  experience  of 
the  founders  directed. 
Now  a  few  words  as  to  the  legal  status  of  these  early  towns. 
I  believe,  though  it  is  nothing  but  a  belief,  that  some  agree- 
ment on  these  points  was  reached  before  leaving  England  ;  
but 
we  know  nothing  as  to  that.  It  might  very  well  be  that  such 
agreements  were  informal,  or  it  may  have  seemed  best  to  those 
who  were  coming  over  to  wait  until  the  New  World  was  reached 
and  the  control  of  the  Company's  affairs  was  actually  in  their 
own  hands,  before  making  any  permanent  arrangements.     It 
 - 301 - 
262  MASSACHUSETTS    HISTORICAL   SOCIETY.  [Jan. 
would  also  accord  well  with  Winthrop's  English  nature  to  let 
things  take  their  course,  and  then  to  adopt  as  the  policy  of  the 
Company  such  policy  as  commended  itself  to  the  freemen  after 
a  few  years  of  actual  experience  with  the  new  home.  So  far 
as  the  records  show  anything,  they  indicate  that  this  was  the 
precise  method  adopted. 
One  other  point  occurs  to  me.  Mr.  Adams  maintains  that 
the  charter  was  the  model  on  which  the  town  system  was 
based.  I  think  there  are  two  objections  to  that  :  first,  the 
towns  were  not  based  on  any  model  ;  
they  grew  by  the  exer- 
cise of  
English  common-sense  and  political  experience,  com- 
bined with  the  circumstances  of  the  place.  Secondly,  and 
much  more  important,  I  think,  the  freemen  in  general  were  by  no 
means  so  in  love  with  the  general  government  of  the  Company 
at  that  time  as  to  wish  to  model  their  town  government  upon 
it.  To  make  this  clear,  let  us  see  how  the  charter  was  being 
interpreted  by  those  in  power  during  these  years.  In  1631  it 
was  voted  that  the  Assistants  only  should  be  elected  by  the  free- 
men, the  Governor  and  Deputy-Governor  being  elected  by  the 
Assistants  out  of  their  own  number.  In  1631  also  the  Assist- 
tants  levied  a  tax,  which  gave  rise  to  a  protest  from  the  people 
of  Watertown  ;  and  the  protesters  came  to  Boston  on  Feb.  17, 
1631-2,  when  Winthrop  expounded  the  nature  of  the  Assist- 
ants' power  as  follows.  He  said  the  government  of  Massachu- 
setts was  not  like  that  of  an  English  city,  where  the  li  mayor 
and  aldermen  have  not  power  to  make  laws  or  raise  taxations 
without  the  people."  On  the  contrary,  the  Massachusetts 
government  was  "  in  the  nature  of  a  parliament,"  the  Assistants 
being  chosen  by  all  the  freemen,  who  could,  at  the  General 
Court,  "  consider  and  propound  anything  concerning  the  same, 
and  declare  their  grievances  without  being  subject  to  ques- 
tion." That  was  an  interpretation  of  the  charter  so  far  as  it 
concerned  the  power  of  freemen  and  Assistants  by  the  chief 
man  and  magistrate.  In  establishing  a  town  system,  with  a 
general  meeting  of  the  inhabitants  and  a  committee  to  manage 
affairs  in  the  intervals  between  the  town-meetings,  I  do  not 
think  the  Dorchester  people  were  following  the  charter,  with 
its  Assistants  in  the  nature  of  a  parliament,  and  its  General 
Court  with  its  right  to  propound  grievances,  without  being 
questioned.  Yet  it  was  in  these  years  that  the  town  system 
was  evolved  in  all  its  essential  features  ;  and  I  believe  that 
 - 302 - 
1892.]  A   JOURNEY   TO   THE   WEST   IN   1836.  263 
the  town  system  of  England,  from  which  they  had  just  come, 
with  its  incorporated  and  unincorporated  towns,  with  their 
general  meetings  of  freemen  or  inhabitants  and  their  alder- 
men or  committees  of  experienced  persons,  had  much  more 
influence  in  determining  the  form  which  it  took  as  early 
as  1683,  according  to  that  entry  in  the  Dorchester  record 
book,  than  had  anything  else,  except  the  necessities  of  the 
case. 
Mr.  Justin  Winsor  presented,  in  behalf  of  Mr.  Charles  E. 
Norton,  literary  executor  of  the  late  James  Russell  Lowell, 
an  unpublished  diary  of  a  journey  from  Oharlottesville,  Vir- 
ginia, to  
the  junction  of  the  Ohio  and  the  Wabash  Rivers, 
kept  in  1836  by  Lucian  Minor,  together  with  a  commonplace 
book  and  other  papers  bought  by  Mr.  Lowell  from  the  family 
of  Mr.  Minor.  On  motion  of  Mr.  Winsor,  all  the  papers  were 
referred  to  the  Committee  for  printing  the  Proceedings.1 
1  Lucian  Minor  was  a  native  of  Virginia,  and  was  born  in  Louisa  Count)7,  April 
24,  1802.  He  received  such  instruction  as  the  Virginia  schools  of  that  period 
could  impart,  but  did  not  receive  a  collegiate  education.  He,  however,  read  law 
and  completed  his  professional  studies  at  the  Law  School  of  William  and  Mary- 
College.  He  then  went  to  Alabama,  where  he  spent  a  year.  On  his  return  to 
Virginia  he  established  himself  as  a  lawyer  in  his  native  county.  From  1828  to 
1852  he  was  the  Commonwealth  Attorney  for  Louisa  County  ;  and  from  1855 
until  his  death,  in  1858,  he  was  Professor  of  Law  in  William  and  Mary.  He  was 
a  frequent  contributor  to  the  "  Southern  Literary  Messenger,"  and  besides  editing 
several  law  books  published  a  tract  entitled  "  Reasons  for  Abolishing  the  Liquor 
Traffic,"  which  is  said  to  have  had  a  sale  of  thirty  thousand  copies.  Among  his 
manuscripts  which  came  into  Mr.  Lowell's  possession  was  an  account  of  a  visit 
to  New  England  in  1834.  This  was  printed  in  the  twenty-sixth  and  twenty- 
seventh  volumes  of  the  "Atlantic  Monthly,"  with  an  introductory  chapter  by  Mr. 
Lowell.  There  was  also  a  part  of  a  very  interesting  letter  to  Mr.  Minor  from  the 
late  President  Cornelius  C.  Felton,  on  the  slavery  question,  written  probably  in 
1855  ;  but  it  is  in  too  fragmentary  a  condition  to  be  printed.  The  diary  now 
given  is  neatly  written  in  a  small  memorandum  book,  and  covers  one  hundred 
and  thirty  pages.  It  begins  with  his  departure  from  Charlottesville,  Virginia, 
November  22,  and  ends  abruptly  with  his  arrival  near  Shawneetown,  Illinois,  De- 
cember 21.  The  first  thirty-one  pages,  which  contain  an  account  of  his  journey 
by  way  of  Richmond  and  Baltimore  to  Washington,  are  so  largely  of  a  private 
and  personal  character  that  it  has  not  been  thought  desirable  to  print  them  ;  and 
at  the  end  a  few  leaves  have  been  torn  out.  It  is  evident,  however,  from  the 
fragments  of  those  leaves  which  remain  that  most  of  them  were  blank.  If  the 
diary  was  continued  after  Mr.  Minor's  arrival  at  Shawneetown,  the  continuation 
must  have  been  in  another  book  ;  
but  it  is  probable  that  it  ended  at  this  point, 
as  there  were  still  a  considerable  number  of  blank  leaves  remaining,  on  which  he 
never  wrote.  In  printing  the  diary  most  of  the  abbreviations,  which  are  very- 
numerous,  have  been  spelled  out. 
 - 303 - 
264  MASSACHUSETTS   HISTORICAL   SOCIETY.  [Jan. 
A  Journey  to  the  West  in  1836. 
Tuesday,  Nov.  29th.  Up  at  7.  Pottered  (as  Miss  Fanny  Kemble 
would  say)  till  breakfast.  Then  read  newspapers  till  10  o'clock. 
Walk  to  post  office,  office  of  Colonization  Society,  Mr.  Fendall,  and 
Mr.  Gales,  Si*.  Mr.  F.  is  a  lawyer  of  talents  and  standing,  but 
devotes  all  to  the  colonization  cause.  Mr.  Gales  is  an  Englishman, 
father  of  the  senior  editor  of  the  National  Intelligencer,  once  him- 
self an  editor  at  Raleigh,  and  one  of  the  most  hale  and  good-looking 
of  octogenarians.  I  had  never  seen  either  of  them  before,  but  on 
making  myself  known  we  became  fast  friends.  They  never  heard 
before,  and  are  much  astonished  at  hearing  now,  a  story  told  me 
by  General  G.,  as  coming  from  old  Mr.  Hersey,  about  the  legislative 
council  of  Liberia,  deliberating  and  nearly  resolving  upon  enslaving 
the  adjacent  natives.  They  gave  me  four  numbers  of  the  Liberia 
Herald  to  be  used  to  the  best  advantage.  Spent  several  busy  and 
laborious  hours  in  walking  to  and  fro  between  the  several  Depart- 
ments and  a  Bank  where  my  business  was.  An  interview  with  Mr. 
Treasurer  Campbell  and  with  a  much  better  man,  Mr.  P.  G.  Wash- 
ington. I  
am  thrown  all  aback  by  learning  here  to-day  that  the 
Treasurer's  receipts  for  specie  deposited  with  him  for  western  lands 
to  be  located  must  specify  the  tract  precisely.  This  makes  it  impos- 
sible for  me  to  procure  any  such  receipt.  At  Mr.  W.'s  suggestion, 
however,  and  partly  through  his  intervention  with  the  cashier  of  the 
Bank  of  the  Metropolis,  I  at  length  got  draughts  upon  banks  in 
New  York  and  St.  Louis,  which  will  perhaps  answer  my  purposes  ; 
also  some  Virginia  military  scrip  for  bounty  lands.  This  so  far 
prepares  me  for  action  that  I  set  off  at  3  to-morrow  morning  for 
Pittsburg,  Cleaveland,  &c.  The  clerks  in  the  Departments  are 
wonderfully  obliging  and.  polite.  Several  of  them  to-day  have  taken 
a  good  deal  of  trouble  in  shewing  me  to  the  offices  or  rooms  which 
I  had  to  visit,  and  in  giving  me  information  I  wanted.  Upon  their 
ranges  of  knowledge  the  effect  of  the  division  of  labour  is  clearly 
discernible.  Each  (however  skilled  in  the  affairs  of  his  own  office) 
is  egregiously  ignorant  of  all  that  concerns  the  other  offices.  Ex.  gr., 
no  one  in  the  Land  Office  proper  knew  of  the  rule  which  has  caused 
me  such  perplexity  about  receipts  for  specie,  that  being  an  affair 
of  the  Treasury,  though  seemingly  one  also  of  the  Land  Office. 
By  the  way  it  is  a  most  culpable  neglect  in  the  Secretary  of  the 
Treasury  not  to  have  notified  the  public  of  that  rule.  After  dinner 
walk  to  bookstore  ;  a  tempting  book  of  engravings  and  poetry  called 
"  Flowers  of  Loveliness."  Abstained  from  purchasing  a  single  book. 
Euge !  Night,  wrote  letters  to  Patton  and  Blachford,  and  sent 
L.  Heralds  and  other  papers  to   various    persons.     Took  passage  in 
 - 304 - 
1892.]  A  JOURNEY   TO   THE  WEST  IN   1886.  265 
the  stage  to  Frederick,  Maryland.  Have  to  be  waked  at  2  in  the 
morning.     To  bed  at  11. 
Wednesday,  Nov.  30th.  The  porter  entered  and  roused  me  at  \  
past  2. 
Off  at  3,  and  hey  for  Pittsburg;  through  Georgetown,  and  then 
nearly  northwest.  A  chattering  stage-agent  is  in  company.  He  prom- 
ises me  that  I  shall  get  to  Pittsburg  in  2  days  and  a  half;  but  this 
is  at  the  cost  of  travelling  all  of  2  nights.  Rockville,  a  decayed, 
sorry  village  before  daybreak.  Our  agent  almost  committed  a  bur- 
glary upon  the  hotel  where  we  stopt  to  change  horses  ;  so  violently 
did  he  thump,  kick,  and  bawl  at  the  door.  It  was  opened  by  a 
negro  man,  of  several  who  were  sleeping  upon  pallets  strewed  over 
the  floor.  After  much  good  humored  storming,  the  agent  succeeded, 
by  the  time  we  were  summoned  to  the  coach  again,  in  having  a 
small  blaze  kindled  in  a  cold  stove  that  stood  in  the  midst.  He 
indemnified  himself  for  the  want  of  external  fire  by  pouring  liquid 
down  his  throat,  and  invited  all  the  rest  of  us  to  partake  with  him. 
The  country  is  very  poor,  reminding  me  strongly  of  Virginia. 
There  are  fields  of  blended  gullies  and  broomsedge,  enclosed  by 
tottering  and  low  worm  fences,  which  even  without  several  well 
laden  persimmon  trees,  are  absolute  facsimiles  of  the  Ould  Dominion. 
Only  8  or  10  miles  from  Washington  we  passed  a  farm  which  sold 
in  1817  for  $28  an  acre,  and  lately  for  $4. 
Hyattstown.  By  this  time  it  was  sunrise  ;  and  a  Liberia  Herald 
which  I  had  exceedingly  surprised  and  amused  my  fellow  passengers, 
none  of  whom  had  dreamed  of  a  newspaper  in  Africa.  Breakfast 
at  Clarksburg,  30  miles  from  Washington.  The  next  county, 
Frederick  ;  
improved  looks  of  the  farms  and  fences.  The  hills  are 
getting  higher  and  higher  ;  and  the  mountains  are  in  sight.  Mondcasy 
River,  spanned  by  a  long  covered  bridge.  It  is  not  navigated  this 
high,  though  80  or  100  yards  wide.  The  slate,  which  was  in  strata 
tending  N.  W.  and  S.  E.  for  15  or  20  miles  below  this  river,  here 
gives  way  to  limestone  ;  still,  however,  occasionally  shewing  a  seam 
of  slate  or  a  mass  of  quartz.  Two  swearing  and  drinking  drivers 
this  morning.  Nowhere  in  Virginia  have  I  seen  plainer  signs  of 
intemperance  and  its  various  attendant  vices  than  in  Maryland  and 
that  part  of  Pennsylvania  between   Baltimore  and   Philadelphia. 
Frederick  City,  handsome,  spread  over  a  considerable  part  of  a  rich 
and  well  improved  valley  ;  8  or  9000  inhabitants.  Our  road  (which 
from  the  Monocasy  is  a  turnpike)  crosses  the  Baltimore  and  Ohio 
Railroad  only  a  mile  or  2  east  of  Frederick.  A  court  martial  is 
sitting  here  to  inquire  into  the  causes  of  the  failure  of  the  Florida 
campaign,  and  apportion  the  blame  between  Generals  Scott,  Gaines, 
and  Jesup.  The  newspapers  mention  a  convention  to  meet  here  on 
the  10th  prox.,  to  devise  and  recommend  to  the  Legislature  a  scheme 
34 
 - 305 - 
266  MASSACHUSETTS  HISTORICAL   SOCIETY.  [Jan. 
of  free  schools,  which  the  surplus  expected  from  the  Federal  Treas- 
ury will  enable  the  State  to  establish  on  a  becoming  scale.  News 
from  Cuba  ;  difference  between  Governor-General  Tacon  and  the 
Governor  of  St.  Jago  de  Cuba,  about  the  constitution  of  1812; 
serious  disturbances  apprehended.  Difficulty  in  choice  of  stage  route; 
decide  upon  going  to  Brownsville,  Pennsylvania,  and  thence  to 
Pittsburg.     9  passengers  in  my  stage,  and  4  other  stages    all  filled  ; 
2  of  them  opposition  ;  the  rest  belonging  to  one  company.  Not  far 
N.  W.  of  Frederick  is  the  alms-house,  a  very  handsome  and  exten- 
sive brick  building  ;  so  palace-like  outwardly  that  if  its  inward  accom- 
modations are  corresponding  it  is  enough  to  tempt  people  to  be 
paupers.  By  very  rapid  driving  (the  drivers  being  of  hostile  lines) 
we  got  to  Hagerstown,  27  miles,  at  \  past  6  p.  m.,  in  4  hours  from 
Frederick.  Crossed  several  mountains  on  the  way.  2  ladies  on  the 
rear  seat,  who  spoke  not  a  word  ;  and  2  or  3  gentlemen  on  the  front 
and  middle  seats,  who  were  reasonably  talkative.  One  of  them 
shewed  us  2  pretty  squares  of  variegated  marble,  taken  from  an  old 
heathen  temple,  in  Egypt,  of  exquisite  polish,  though  probably  3  or 
4000  years  old. 
At  Hagerstown,  stopt  for  the  night  at  the  large  and  crowded  hotel 
of  Mr.  Stahl  —  doubly  crowded,  as,  besides  the  host  of  stage  pas- 
sengers, a  court  is  sitting  in  town,  and  the  judges  and  lawyers  are 
mostly  in  this  house.  The  Court  of  Common  Pleas  —  sometimes 
called   the  County   Court,  and   sometimes   Criminal    Court  —  held  by 
3  judges,  who  hold  such  a  court  for  each  of  3  counties  twice  a  year. 
There  is  no  lower  tribunal,  save  single  justices  ;  the  higher  are  the 
Chancery  Court  and  Court  of  Appeals.  Wrote  to  Dr.  Morris  and 
Capt.  William  Linn  ;  request  answers  at  St.  Louis  and  Peoria.  Slept 
in  a  room  (fireless)  with  4  beds,  all  occupied. 
Thursday,  Dec.  1st.  Ours  being  no  mail  coach,  the  driver  let  us 
sleep  till  nearly  5  ;  set  off  at  5^.  To  Clear  Spring,  only  12  miles,  to 
breakfast.  Crowded  enough  before  ;  
but  here  one  Mr.  Hook,  weigh- 
ing 200,  and  a  Mr.  Mann,  above  the  middle  size,  were  added.  More- 
over a  
thick  new  wheel,  intended  for  a  crippled  coach  20  or  30  miles 
on  our  way,  was  placed  on  our  top,  to  the  serious  detriment  of  the 
vehicle  (thank  Goodness  !)  
and  to  our  no  small  annoyance  and  appre- 
hension ;  
for  its  weight  created  the  danger  of  its  breaking  in  upon  us 
through  the  top,  and  much  increased  the  likelihood  of  an  over-turn. 
The  town  of  Hancock  memorable  for  two  things  ;  1st,  there  Mr.  Hook 
left  us  ;  and  2d,  there  the  State  of  Maryland  is  but  1  mile  and  a  quarter 
wide  between  Virginia  and  Pennsylvania.  The  high,  barren  hills  of 
Morgan  County,  Virginia,  stretched  for  many  miles  in  view  on  the 
opposite  side  of  the  Potomac.  In  Mr.  Hook's  stead  came  another  pas- 
senger of  
less  avoirdupois  and  more  promising  exterior  ;  not  looking 
 - 306 - 
1892.]  A  JOUKNEY  TO   THE  WEST  IN   1836.  267 
like  one  who  drank,  or  made,  or  sold  whiskey,  all  3  of  which  traits 
were  shadowed  in  the  former  gentleman's  face  and  embodied  in  his 
history.  The  new  comer  proves  a  geologist,  sensible  and  communica- 
tive, just  
the  companion  for  this  mountainous  road,  so  full  of  geological 
incident.  Another  passenger  is  Mr.  Neff,  a  plain  farmer-like  body,  own- 
ing a  coal  mine  near  Cumberland,  who  has  been  to  Harper's  Ferry  with 
a  boat  load.  It  is  worth  10  cents  a  bushel  at  Cumberland:  he  got  30 
at  Harper's  Ferry;  boatage  about  12  cents.  Dined  at  Mr.  Mann's,  a 
member  of  the  Maryland  Legislature.  He  came  with  us  from  Hagers- 
town.  He  and  Mr.  Neff  say  elections  are  carried  in  Maryland  by  old- 
fashioned  electioneering,  —  treating  included.  The  dining-house  is  near 
the  top  of  a  mountain,  a  ridge  of  the  Alleghany.  The  geologist 
walked  on  while  the  rest  ate.  The  back  seat  in  stage  occupied  by  2 
ladies,  neither  of  whom  or  the  young  gentleman  who  sat  with  and 
attended  to  them  had  yet  spoken  or  been  spoken  to  by  one  of  us.  At 
breakfast  one  only  of  them  -had  sat  down  ;  she  did  so  when  the  rest 
were  nearly  done}  and  no  one  seemed  properly  regardful  of  her  ;  so  Mr. 
Neff  and  I  waited  upon  her  with  such  eatables  as  were  near  us.  At 
dinner  we  heard  the  young  gentleman  mention  her  to  the  landlord  as 
his  servant,  and  ask  that  she  might  sit  at  table  soon,  before  all  were 
done.  She  did  so  ;  and  great  was  the  falling  off  in  the  attentions  we 
then  shewed  her.  Our  Virginia  breeding  no  longer  appeared  (Mr. 
Neff  was  a  Virginian).  Overtook  the  geologist  at  top  of  mountain. 
He  had  much  to  say  of  the  formations  apparent  on  the  wayside  ;  
knows 
William  B.,  Henry,  and  Robert  Rogers.  Wonder  who  he  can  be ; 
have  seen  him  before,  I  'm  sure.  We  crost  to-day  3  or  4  considerable 
mountains,  with  ascents  and  descents  long,  but  not  steep ;  the  turnpike 
winding  along  the  side  till  it  insinuates  itself  to  the  top  and  to  the 
bottom,  so  as  to  make  the  slope  very  small.  It  borders  often  upon 
sublime  precipices,  overlooking  deep  ravines,  and  wide  as  well  as  deep 
vallies.  In  descending  one  mountain  we  saw  the  road  4  or  5  miles 
ahead  running  up  another,  like  a  mere  line  of  white,  —  a  path  or  furrow 
it  might  be,  made  by  deer  or  by  rains.  Night,  1 1  miles  E.  of  Cumber- 
land. About  dark  ascended  the  last  mentioned  mountain.  When  near 
the  top  a  solitary  light,  twinkling  through  the  tree-boughs  in  the  valley 
many  hundred  feet  below  us,  on  our  left,  shewed  how  high  we  had 
mounted.  Presently  the  descent  began.  It  was  immensely  rapid  ;  
the 
horses  seemed  straining  at  full  speed.  But  no  one  said  a  word  against 
it,  
trusting  to  the  driver,  though  it  was  impossible  to  help  feeling  a 
little  particular  at  the  idea  of  thus  flying  along  the  edge  of  precipitous 
ravines,  with  sheets  of  ice  under  the  coach  wheels.  Reached  the  town 
of  Cumberland  at  J  past  9,  Black's  Tavern  ;  no  supper,  I.  8  or  10 
members  of  Congress  on  their  way  to  Washington.  They  represent 
the  roads  westward  as  slippery  and  dangerous,  especially  Laurel  Hill, 
 - 307 - 
268  MASSACHUSETTS   HISTORICAL   SOCIETY.  [Jan. 
and  the  Ohio  River  a3  too  full  of  ice  to  be  navigated.  With  them 
Governor  Kent  of  Maryland.  Mr.  Clay  and  Col.  Richard  M.  Johnson 
(Tecumseh)  passed  here  to-day.  Fine  coal  fires.  The  mines  here- 
about yield  perhaps  150,000  bushels  a  year;  few  hands  yet  employed. 
Mr.  Neff,  whose  pits  furnish  45  or  50,000  bushels,  employs  but  3  hands. 
Millions  could  be  obtained  with  ease.  These  mines  have  been  wrought 
only  20  or  25  years.  Those  at  Brownsville  in  Pennsylvania,  on  the 
Youghioghaney,  longer.  It  measures  28  bushels  to  the  ton.  The 
mines  are  all  cut  horizontally  under  the  sides  of  hills.  Before  going  to 
bed,  I  find  the  geologist  is  Mr.  Forrest  Shepherd  of  New  Haven, 
whom  I  saw  in  Virginia  last  spring.  His  opinion  as  to  origin  of 
meteors  and  meteoric  stones  different  from  Professor  Silliman's.  His, 
they  are  either  chemical  formations  in  atmosphere,  or  combined  frag- 
ments shot  up  from  volcanoes  and  carried  by  currents  of  air  co-operat- 
iug  with  yet  modifying  the  original  projectile  force,  sometimes  thousands 
of  miles  from  their  native  mountain.  Professor  S.'s,  they  are  frag- 
ments of  
broken  planets  which  move  in  orbits  round  the  earth,  and 
occasionally  throw  off  these  so  powerfully  that  they  come  within  the 
sphere  of  the  earth's  attraction  and  fall  on  it.  This  (si  rite  recordor) 
is  Brewster's  notion  in  his  note  to  2d  Ferguson's  astronomy.  Mem.,  to 
look.     To  bed  at  11,  in  a  room  with  6  others. 
Friday,  Dec.  2d.  Off  at  J  past  5.  Up  the  famous  Wills'  Creek. 
Cumberland  (then  merely  a  fortress)  is  known  as  the  last  starting 
place  of  General  Braddock  on  his  fatal  march  to  Fort  Duquesne. 
His  road  stretched  due  N.  W.  over  a  mountain  which  our  road  this 
morning  more  judiciously  leaves  to  the  left  and  runs  up  W.'s  Creek 
along  the  "  Narrows,"  a  pass  between  2  mountains,  allowing  a  channel 
for  the  creek.  It  was  very  cold  ;  and  having  "  caught  a  cold,"  with  a 
cough  that  has  irritated  my  lungs  to  right  fearful  soreness,  I  could  only 
peep  now  and  then  through  the  coach-  window-glasses  at  the  noble 
scenery  of  the  Narrows,  dimly  towering  and  frowning  in  the  starlight. 
This  was  so  unsatisfactory  that  I  soon  wrapt  myself  up  in  cloak  and 
blanket  and  fell  asleep.  Hardly  waked  entirely  before  reaching 
Frostburg,  our  breakfast  place.  Mr.  Shepherd,  instead  of  sleeping, 
had  been  eagerly  watching  the  coal  that  "  cropped  out  "  on  our  road- 
side, and  he  had  observed  a  great  deal.  He  means  to  spend  some  days 
here,  and  in  the  neighborhood,  to  explore  the  coal  and  other  mineral 
wealth  of  this  region.  Several  rough  fellows,  like  wagoners  or  stage- 
drivers,  around  the  barroom  fire.  One  of  them  was  eloquent  in  praise 
of  a  Connecticut  man  who  had  taught  a  school  in  the  village  last  year. 
He  had  carried  his  scholars  forward  wonderfully  ;  
had  50  of  them.  "  I 
went  to  him  myself,"  said  the  fellow,  though  he  was  27  or  30  years 
old.  A  minute  after  he  took  a  dram.  It  was  red  liquor,  brandy,  I 
judged  ;  and  the  dram  was  a  common  tumbler  half  full,  with  about  2 
 - 308 - 
1892.]  A  JOURNEY   TO  THE   WEST  IN   1836.  269 
tablespoonfuls  of  water  added  to  it  merely  for  appearance  sake.  The 
drinker  did  not  reel  under  it  in  the  least.  Farewell  to  Mr.  Shepherd. 
Our  driver  was  a  low,  broad-shouldered,  grotesque  looking  Dutchman, 
of  some  28  or  30.  He  (with  our  leave  first  asked  and  had)  helped 
into  the  stage  a  rosy-cheeked  dumpling  of  a  woman,  much  like  him- 
self, and  the  living  incarnation  of  a  Dutch  burgomaster's  daughters 
described  in  Quentin  Durward.  Cap  on  and  a  jacket  (I  forget  the 
colour)  laced  behind  outside,  like  those  of  the  Bavarian  girls  in  pic- 
tures. To  some  proffered  civility  of  mine  she  made  no  answer,  as  if 
not  understanding  me,  and  she  interchanged  no  word  with  any  of  us. 
At  the  end  of  the  little  Dutchman's  stage  he  was  remarkably  assiduous, 
helping  her  out  and  leading  her  into  the  house,  where  the  folks  received 
her  with  eager  kindness  and  manifest  curiosity.  While  the  horses  were 
changing  the  host  told  me  she  was  the  driver's  sister.  He  came  hither  5 
or  6  years  ago  ;  and  having  by  steady  industry  and  good  conduct  earned 
a  decent  property  and  a  fair  reputation  he  had  written  "  home  "  for  her. 
She  had  lately  reached  Baltimore  by  ship,  whence  he  had  caused  her 
to  be  brought  by  wagon  and  stage  to  this  her  destined  home.  They 
are  going  to  keep  house  together  ;  and  may  they  have  all  the  happiness 
they  deserve  !  Nothing  could  be  more  pleasing  than  the  round,  pin- 
cushion figure  and  queen-apple  face  of  this  German  woman  surmounted 
by  her  clean  cap,  or  than  her  Dutch  words  most  fluently  jabbered  to 
her  brother,  when  we  had  been  let  into  her  history  and  destination. 
My  other  fellow-passengers  begin  to  show  themselves  agreeably.  The 
young  man  attending  the  ladies,  hitherto  confined  to  the  backseat,  had 
not  once  (any  more  than  they)  thrown  in  one  word  of  conversation 
amongst  us.  Driven  forward,  however,  by  the  entrance  of  the  Ger- 
man woman  he  has  talked  much  and  right  well.  A  student  and  gradu- 
ate of  Yale,  native  and  resident  of  Mississippi,  whither  he  is  now 
wending  ;  name,  John  Murdoch.  Rev.  Mr.  Morris,  a  young  Scotch 
Presbyterian  clergyman,  just  come  over.  Raw  and  simple  in  some 
things,  but  well-read  and  one  of  the  sharpest  observers  of  men  and 
passing  scenes  that  I  ever  saw.  Physiognomy  so  Irish  that  I  set  him 
down  as  unquestionably  of  Ireland  till  told  No  to-day,  and  so  ill  con- 
formed to  express  mind  I  could  have  sworn  he  ought  hardly  to  be 
allowed  to  travel  without  a  guardian.  It  is  enough  to  say  that  his  lips 
commonly  wanted  3  quarters  of  an  inch  of  closing.  To  my  infinite 
surprise  he  turns  out  to  be  what  I  have  said,  a  fellow  of  extraordinary 
shrewdness.  School  books  taught  me  that  outward  appearances  are 
often  deceitful  ;  and  a  thousand  instances,  good  and  bad,  have  warned 
me  to  distrust  physiognomy.  But  never  before  have  I  had  such  a 
warning   as    this  ;    never   before    such   a   falsification   of   signs  which 
seemed  absolutely  infallible. 
"  There  is  no  art 
To  read  the  mind's  construction  in  the  face." 
 - 309 - 
270  MASSACHUSETTS   HISTORICAL  SOCIETY.  [Jan. 
Mr.  M.  is  a  graduate  of  the  Glasgow  college.  The  Rev.  Mr.  Win- 
chester of  
Philadelphia.  He  has  been  a  distinguished  debater  in  the 
Presbyterian  General  Assembly.  He  possesses  qualities  which  I  can 
well  believe  make  him  so;  a  good  person,  a  most  clear,  musical  voice, 
an  articulation  and  utterance  unusually  distinct,  a  ready  command  of 
apt,  neat  (even  elegant)  and  correct  language,  and  a  mind  stored  with 
various,  though  not  profound  knowledge,  which  (because  it  is  not  pro- 
found, —  see  Dugald  Stewart)  he  brings  with  admirable  ease  to  min- 
ister to  all  his  occasions.  It  is  a  light  artillery,  which  for  that  reason 
he  can  bring  at  once  to  bear  upon  whatever  point  his  intellectual  forces 
are  engaged  with.     He  has  to-day  been  extremely  agreeable. 
Reached  Uniontown,  Pennsylvania,  at  9  p.  m.  My  cold  and  cough 
worse.  Only  some  hotwater  tea  with  bread  for  my  supper.  Landlord 
(Mr.  Seaton)  very  surly.  The  last  hour  or  two  of  the  drive  were 
agonizing  to  me  from  a  tight  boot  ;  more  than  a  dandy's  pains,  though 
guiltless  of  a  dandy's  sin.  My  boots  were  of  thick  stiff  cow-leather, 
intended  to  fend  off  the  cold  of  Latitude  42°  ;  
but  not  fitting  well 
(though  too  large  for  me)  one  of  them  gave  me  the  keenest  pain  that  I 
ever  felt,  —  worse  than  tooth-ache  or  tooth-drawing.  Our  surly  land- 
lord could  not  be  prevailed  on  to  give  me  oil  or  any  grease  to  soften 
the  leather.  His  wife  (wife-like)  seemed  anxious  to  make  amends  for 
his  churlish  humor  by  fourfold  kindness. 
Saturday,  Dec.  3d.  Started  at  5 \  A.  m.  Youghioghany  River. 
Brownsville  12  miles  west  of  Uniontown  and  on  the  Mononghahela. 
Hopes  of  going  from  Brownsville  by  steamboat  to  Pittsburg,  all 
dashed  by  seeing  the  river  sheeted  over  with  ice,  on  which  boys 
were  skating.  Crost  river  on  a  fine  bridge,  covered.  We  have  been 
travelling  on  the  great  National  Road  (alias  the  Cumberland  Road) 
since  we  left  Cumberland.  It  is  a  fine  McAdamized  turnpike.  To- 
day's portion  especially  good  ;  so  is  the  land  it  runs  through,  waving 
in  elevated  ridges,  but  laid  off  into  fertile,  well  enclosed  and  well  im- 
proved farms.  Much  pleasant  talk  from  Mr.  Winchester.  The  Per- 
sian astrologer  (a  Frenchman,  Mons.    ).    
He  performed  this  trick  : 
one  of  the  company  was  asked  to  write  some  thought  or  wish  on  a  bit 
of  paper.  He  did  so.  The  conjuror  then  handed  the  paper  to  Mr. 
Winchester,  who  with  his  own  hand  held  it  in  the  blaze  of  a  candle  till 
it  was  burnt  to  ashes  which  he  then  with  his  breath  scattered  into  the 
air.  The  conjuror  blew  out  the  candle,  stripped  the  wick  of  the  tallow 
for  an  inch  or  two  below  the  blaze,  and  there,  wrapt  around  the  wick  was 
found  the  identical  paper  with  the  same  writing  upon  it.  The  conjuror 
had  not  read  the  paper,  or  seen,  or  been  told,  its  contents.  He  told  the 
audience  that  this  trick  was  a  leading  one  by  which  the  Hindu  Bramins 
deceive  their  votaries.  No  one  could  tell  how  it  was  done.  That  con- 
juror, however,  is  inferior  to  Mons.  Adrien.     He  once  bought  3  oranges 
 - 310 - 
1892.]  A   JOURNEY   TO   THE    WEST   IN   1836.  271 
of  a  man  in  the  street  of  Philadelphia,  and  opening  one  with  knife 
apparently  pulled  out  a  10  dollar  bank-note  from  it.  The  seller  stared. 
Adrien  asked  where  his  oranges  grew,  —  "I  should  like  to  get  some  of 
the  stock,"  said  he.  "  But  let  us  see  if  the  others  have  anything  in 
them."  He  opened  another,  and  pulled  out  a  20  dollar  note.  "  Here," 
said  he  to  the  orange-man  ;  "  I  
'11  buy  all  your  oranges  ;  what  will  you 
take  for  them  ? "  The  fellow  protested  he  would  not  sell  another  ; 
tumbled  them  all  into  his  basket,  took  it  up,  and  ran  off  home.  A.'s 
trick  upon  the  barber  also.  Mr.  Winchester  told  an  amusing  story  of 
Alexander  Hamilton  and  a  sleight-of-hand  man.  It  was  a  show-night, 
and  H.  sat  in  front  near  the  showman.  His  gaze  was  so  eager  and 
piercing  that  the  fellow  was  disconcerted  for  fear  his  tricks  should  be 
fathomed  ;  so  he  went  to  H.  (whom  he  did  not  know),  and  said,  "  Sir, 
I  want  to  deceive  you."  '"I  know  it,  and  you  may  if  you  can.  It  is 
your  business  ;  and  it  is  mine  to  find  out  your  method,  if  I  can." 
"  Here,"  said  the  conjuror,  "  take  this  half-dollar,  and  be  sure  to  hold 
it  fast.  Take  care  that  it  does  not  escape  from  your  hand."  H. 
clenched  it  tight  during  the  whole  performance  ;  every  moment  opening 
his  fingers  cautiously  to  see  if  he  had  it  safe.  The  juggler  went 
through  all  his  feats,  and  going  to  H,  asked  him  if  he  was  sure  that  he 
had  the  coin.  "  Yes,"  said  H.,  shewing  it.  "  Here  it  is."  "  Yes, 
there  it  is,  sure  enough.  And  now,  Sir,  I  have  deceived  you  ;  for  by 
giving  you  that  money  to  look  at  and  think  of,  I  have  diverted  your 
attention  from  what  I  was  doing,  so  that  you  have  not  made  the  dis- 
coveries I  
feared."  H.  laughed  heartily,  and  owned  himself  fairly 
cheated. 
Millville,  Hillsborough,  Washington,  —  all  in  Pennsylvania.  The 
last  is  a  flourishing  village  of  1500  or  2000  inhabitants.  Here  I  in- 
tended to  take  another  stage  for  Pittsburg;  but  the  severe  weather 
making  it  likely  that  travelling  in  Michigan  and  on  the  lakes  is  imprac- 
ticable I  
conclude  to  go  first  to  Illinois  via  Wheeling.  At  Wheeling 
take  stage  due  west,  or  steamboat  down  the  Ohio,  as  circumstances 
may  render  wisest.  Thriving  college  at  Washington.  Mr.  Morris, 
getting  out  to  walk  some  miles,  fell  in  with  a  student  going  to  it,  a  lad 
of  17  or  18,  who  detailed  to  him  his  plans  of  study  and  of  life  very 
naivement  and  amusingly.  It  was  night  when  we  came  within  18  miles 
of  Wheeling,  and  our  two  last  stages  were  mostly  in  the  dark  ;  many 
steep  hills  to  climb  and  descend.  My  cold  and  cough  worse  and  worse. 
No  breakfast  this  morning  save  one  cup  of  hotwater  tea  and  a  little 
bread  crumbed  into  it ;  no  dinner  ;  no  supper.  High  fever.  As  the 
stage  rumbled  on,  I  slept  ;  
but  it  was  a  feverish,  unrefreshing,  dreamy 
sleep.  How  fantastic  the  images  that  crowd  each  other  through  a 
feverish  brain  !  and  what  a  heightener  of  their  wildness  is  the  jolting  of 
a  stage  !     Before  one  set  could  be  dwelt  upon  for  an  instant  an  abrupt 
 - 311 - 
272  MASSACHUSETTS   HISTORICAL   SOCIETY.  [Jan. 
heave  or  lurch  would  dissipate  them,  and  introduce  another  set,  like  the 
figures  in  a  kaleidoscope,  appearing,  vanishing,  and  changing  at  the 
slightest  motion  of  the  instrument.  Reached  Wheeling  at  10.  Hot 
water  sweetened,  with  a  counter-twang  of  vinegar  in  it,  was  all  my 
supper.     Another  feverish  sleep,  disturbed  by  other  fantastic  dreams. 
Sunday,  Dec.  4th.  Rose  not  till  10 J.  No  breakfast,  or  desire  for 
any.  At  12|-  walk  out;  people  going  home  from  the  churches.  Took 
a  turn  through  several  streets,  so  as  to  gain  an  idea  of  the  situation  and 
shape  of  the  town.  At  dinner,  some  soup  and  vile  pudding.  No  appe- 
tite. Afternoon  wrote  2  letters,  and  read  2  plays, —  Congreve's  "  Love 
for  Love"  and  Dr.  Hoadley's  "  Suspicious  Husband."  Read  the  latter 
once  before,  when  a  boy.  Read  also,  before  bed-time,  vol.  i.  of  the 
"Posthumous  Papers  of  the  Pickwick  Club,"  by  "  Boz,"  alias  Charles 
Dickens.  There  is  no  denying  either  the  broad  humour  or  the  truth 
to  nature  with  which  he  delineates  common  life,  and  especially  cockney 
life.  But  it  is  a  sort  of  travesty  of  some  of  the  nobler  feelings  of 
humanity,  which  tends  much  more  to  grovel  than  to  elevate  the  mind. 
As  tourists  the  Pickwickiaus  are  made  ridiculous  by  the  triviality  of  the 
objects  they  contemplate,  registering  the  veriest  trifles  with  as  much 
serious  parade  as  would  be  meet  for  the  incidents  of  a  Back's  or 
Parry's  journey.  Perhaps  a  part  of  my  displeasure  at  the  travesty 
arises  from  a  resemblance  which  is  hardly  to  be  disguised  between  the 
worthy,  pragmatic  Pickwickians  and  a  certain  tourist  to  whom  I 
myself  am  greatly  attached. 
Monday,  Dec.  5th.  Rose  in  time  for  second  table  at  breakfast. 
Morning  rainy  and  much  warmer  than  yesterday  ;  clear  up  ;  walk  out  ; 
river  almost  free  from  ice,  and  what  appears  is  all  afloat.  Ascended 
high  hill,  overlooking  the  town  ;  a  singular  ridge  between  the  Ohio 
River  and  Wheeling  Creek  ;  sharp  at  top  like  a  house  top.  It  is  full 
of  coal,  which  "  crops  out  "  in  many  places  along  the  sides,  and  is  dug 
with  such  ease  that  it  costs  here  but  3  cents  a  bushel  (bituminous). 
Steam  engine  for  raising  water  into  reservoir  whence  the  city  is  sup- 
plied. Intelligent  and  obliging  engineer.  The  engine  burns  100 
bushels  of  coal  a  day  ;  
cost  10  or  15,000$.  Whole  water  works  $80,000. 
The  boiler  consists  of  4  cylinders  lying  parallel  and  horizontally,  com- 
municating together.  After  the  steam  is  used  in  the  piston  quant, 
suff.  of  it  is  driven  into  a  tube  which  conveys  it  into  a  cylinder  where 
it  meets  and  heats  the  water  that  fills  the  boiler,  —  heats  it  to  the  verge 
of  boiling.  Thence  it  passes  by  another  tube  into  the  boiler.  The 
supply  tube  which  brings  down  cold  water  from  the  city  reservoir  into 
the  heater  is  only  §  of  an  inch  diameter.  Dinner,  soup  only.  The 
Court  House  close  by  ;  went  in  ;  monthly  session  of  County  Court. 
A  case  of  attachment  against  an  absconding  debtor  was  under  discussion. 
An  old  brazen  lawyer  vs.  a  young  though  not  a  very  modest  one.    They 
 - 312 - 
1892.]  A  JOUKNEY   TO   THE   WEST   IN   1836.  273 
both  laboured  through  speeches  which  reminded  me  so  much  of  many  of 
my  own  that  I  was  sickened  in  spirit,  and  left  the  house  re  infecta. 
The  younger  lawyer's  tortuosities  and  feeble  repetitions  were  particu- 
larly distressing.  Went  with  my  fellow  traveller  and  room-mate  Mur- 
doch to a  glass  factory,  of  which  there  are  several,  and  saw  all  the 
processes  from  melting  the  lead,  which  seems  to  be  the  main  ingredient, 
to  the  final  blowing  and  trimming  the  vessel  into  shape,  and  giving  it 
the  last  polish.  Called  at  steamboat  to  see  if  an  arrangement  could  be 
made  to  get  us  berths  down  the  river  to-morrow.  Vain  ;  they  are  all 
occupied.  Got  some  flaxseed  to  make  tea  for  my  cough,  and  drank  it 
at  intervals  till  bed-time,  with  no  sensible  effect.  Read  Cougreve's 
tragedy,  "  The  Mourning  Bride."  It  deviates  from  the  common  run 
of  tragedies  in  making  all  the  deaths  fall  upon  the  villains  in  the  piece, 
while  the  reader's  favorites  come  out  prosperously.  In  Johnson's  Life 
of  Congreve  I  had  vainly  striven  to  find  in  the  following  passage  a 
warrant  for  J.'s  high  praise  that  it  contains  the  most  perfect  image  in 
the  whole  compass  of  English  poetry.  It  is  said  by  A.,  the  heroine,  in  a 
cathedral  of  Granada  at  midnight.  She  and  her  attendant  thought  they 
had  heard  sepulchral  sounds,  but  soon  deemed  it  fancy. 
"    all  is  hush'd  and  still  as  death  ;  
'tis  dreadful  ! 
How  reverend  is  the  face  of  this  tall  pile, 
Whose  ancient  pillars  rear  their  marble  heads, 
To  bear  aloft  its  arch'd  and  ponderous  roof, 
By  its  own  weight  made  stedfast  and  immovable, 
Looking  tranquillity  !     It  strikes  an  awe 
And  terror  on  my  aching  sight.     The  tombs 
And  monumental  caves  of  Death  look  cold, 
And  shoot  a  dullness  to  my  trembling  heart  ! 
Give  me  thy  hand,  and  let  me  hear  thy  voice." 
The  play  to  my  taste  vindicates  its  reputation  as  one  of  the  finest  of 
English  tragedies. 
Tuesday,  Dec.  6th.  Rose  and  went  to  breakfast  ;  cold  much  better, 
but  cough  still  troublesome,  and  lungs  sore.  Much  ice  floating  down 
river,  but  several  steamboats  have  passed  up  and  down.  Tried  again 
to  get  berth  in  the  Robert  Emmet,  which  goes  down  to-day,  —  vain  ;  so 
went  on  board  the  Huntress,  just  from  Pittsburg.  Selected  berths  and 
marked  our  names  over  against  them  in  the  cabin  register.  Had  then 
the  melancholy  satisfaction  of  learning  from  the  passengers  (a  jolly  and 
sociable  set)  who  had  come  from  Pittsburg,  that  great  scarcity  of  pro- 
vision existed,  so  that  they  had  this  morning  eaten  up  every  morsel 
that  was  set  before  them  for  breakfast.  The  captain,  too,  without  skill 
or  energy,  and  very  weak- handed.  A  negro  man  was  lost  overboard 
this  morning;  went  to  dip  up  a  bucket  of  water;  gangway  slippery 
with  ice  ;  fell  ;  swam  a  little  while  ;  and  2  minutes  before  the  yawl 
reached  the  spot,  sunk,  to  rise  no  more.      This  happened  just  above 
35 
 - 313 - 
274  MASSACHUSETTS   HISTORICAL   SOCIETY.  [Jan. 
Wheeling,  a  few  hours  before  we  entered  the  boat.  Our  narrators 
seemed  still  shuddering  with  the  shock  they  had  suffered  from  the  sight. 
Presently  two  of  these  gentlemen,  with  loud  laughter  and  cheering 
rolled  into  the  cabin  a  barrel  of  fine  apples  they  had  just  bought,  and 
bade  all  welcome  to  a  share.  We  put  off  at  2.  Dinner  good  and  plen- 
tiful enough.  Among  the  passengers  is  a  practical  and  scientific  orni- 
thologist of  
Philadelphia,  Mr.  Doughty.  He  has  traversed  the  United 
States,  Canada,  and  Mexico  in  quest  of  specimens,  and  says  he  is  skilful 
in  preparing  them,  i.  e.  in  skinning  the  birds  and  stuffing  their  skins. 
Spent  some  weeks,  winter  before  last,  in  Illinois,  and  was  often  out  in 
the  prairies  shooting  "  specimens  "  when  the  mercury  was  nearly  down 
to  zero.  This  sensibly  encouraged  me  anent  my  anticipated  exposure 
there  in  land-hunting.  Another  passenger  seemed  busy  noting  down 
things  in  a  book.  He  is  very  rough  looking  for  a  savant;  can  it  be  a 
journal  ?  if  so,  "  gold  to  silver,"  that  it  is  a  match  to  that  of  Mr.  Pick- 
wick or  of  Will  Marvel.  A  young  Jew  whom  they  call  Abraham  and 
a  Kentucky  grocer,  both  of  whom  are  ill  spoken  of  by  their  brethren, 
and  a  lively,  jocose  little  Portuguese  named  Medina  are  other  of  the 
passengers.  A  game  of  whist  was  going  on.  My  friend  Murdoch  pro- 
posed a  
rubber  to  me,  and  (horresco  ref 
evens)  we  played,  no  bet  how- 
ever. Then  read  Gil  Bias  (in  French)  till  bed-time.  Our  captain  is  a 
raw  lad  of  17  or  18,  vulgar  and  uncourteous. 
Wednesday,  Dec.  1th.  Idle  all  the  early  part  of  the  morning.  The 
Robert  Emmet  having  passed  us,  and  got  stuck  in  the  ice,  we"  pulled 
her  out  by  a  large  rope.  Wrote  2  letters,  and  then  found  that  we 
were  hung  in  like  manner.  The  R.  E.  returned  our  kindness  in  kind. 
A  few  minutes  after  we  were  surprised  to  see  her  stop.  So  did  our 
boat,  and  to  our  dismay,  as  well  as  surprise,  we  found  she  meant  to 
transfer  all  her  passengers  to  us,  and  go  no  farther.  Our  captain  was 
not  to  be  dissuaded  from  taking  them,  though  our  meals  were  already 
stinted  in  the  extreme,  and  our  single  wheel  (for  one  was  crippled  and 
useless)  was  barely  sufficient  to  carry  the  load  we  already  had  through 
the  ice  and  over  the  sandbars.  The  transfer  was  made  ;  crowd  exces- 
sive ;  
fire  small,  hardly  any  fuel,  —  passengers  had  to  saw  wood,  bring 
it  in,  and  make  fire  ;  §  could  not  get  near  it.  This  was  3  or  4 
miles  above  Marietta.  Reached  M.  ;  
lay  an  hour  or  two  at  wharf. 
More  passengers  came  aboard  there,  eager  to  embark  as  .  
if  they  ex- 
pected a  
pleasant  voyage  amid  comforts  and  abundance.  Heu,  nescia 
mens  hominum  fati,  sortisque  futurce.  Among  the  newcomers  was 
Gen.  Felix  Houston,  now  of  Texas,  a  dull,  heavy,  pugnacious-looking 
man,  5  feet  10,  with  broad  shoulders,  and  arms  that  seem  able  to  wield 
a  bowie  knife  with  tremendous  effect,  —  one  visible  under  his  waistcoat. 
Murdoch  not  seeming  to  know  who  he  was  questioned  him  rather 
closely  about  Texian  affairs  and  Gen.  Sam.  Houston.      Whispered  a 
 - 314 - 
1892.]  A   JOURNEY   TO   THE  WEST  IN   1836.  275 
warning  to  M.  that  he  was  talking  with  S.  H.'s  brother  or  cousin.  We 
soon  ran  aground  upon  a  sandbar,  and  hung  there  all  night.  This  was 
after  passing  Blennerhasset's  Island  and  Parkersburg.  Read  a  good 
deal  to-day  in  Gil  Bias. 
Thursday,  Dec.  8th.  Breakfast,  second  table  ;  the  first  being  occu- 
pied by  
the  ladies  (12  or  15  on  board),  and  those  gentlemen  who 
occupied  the  seats  \  an  hour  before  the  bell  rang.  Short  allowance, 
especially  of  bread  ;  no  cream  or  milk  for  tea  and  coffee.  Disengaged 
from  the  sandbar  ;  ran  a  little  way  ; disengaged  again,  and  ran  4  miles, 
—  our  whole  day's  journey!  Stopt  near  shore  because  captain  has 
heard  that  6  or  8  miles  below  a  barrier  of  ice  closes  the  channel.  Be- 
fore the  
boat  was  moored  he,  with  skates  on,  was  out  upon  the  ice  with 
his  waiters  (boys)  skating  !  Passengers  all  thronged  to  see  him,  and 
laughed  bitterly.  Wood  exhausted  once  to-day  ;  supply  obtained  on 
shore:  passengers  helping  to  throw  it  down  the  high  bank.  Dinner 
much  scantier  than  breakfast.  No  supper  ;  all  ate  some  apples.  (My 
seat  was  only  at  second  table,  dinner.)  Read  the  first  volume  of  Life  of 
Sir  James  Mcintosh,  by  his  son,  lent  me  by  Murdoch.  There  are  few 
books  more  interesting.  His  Vindicice  Gallicce  (answer  to  Burke's 
Reflections  on  the  French  Revolution)  written  at  26,  compare  it  with 
his  chastened  views  of  liberty  exhibited  in  his  Lectures  on  National 
Law,  nine  or  ten  years  after.  The  former  full  of  that  generous,  un- 
compromising enthusiasm  for  equal  rights  and  popular  government 
which  he  who  never  felt  is  a  dunce  or  a  slave,  or  both  ;  the  latter 
manifesting  those  tempered  and  castigated  hopes  to  which  experience 
(and  especially  such  experience  as  the  French  Revolution  affords)  will 
reduce  any  mind  not  incurably  visionary.  Extracts  given  from  Mcl.'s 
journal  of  his  studies  while  in  India.  He  says,  "one  page  of  Pascal 
has  all  of  Dr.  Reid's  system  ;  and  one  sentence  all  of  Dr.  Beattie's 
book."  That  sentence,  —  "  L'unique  fort  des  Dogmatistes  c'est,  qu'en 
parlant  de  bonne  foi,  on  ne  peut  douter  des  principes  naturels.  Mcl.'s 
criticism  of  Corinne  "  'spreses  my  mind,"  as  Capt.  Guzzle  says,  "  'zactly." 
Mad.  De  S.  formed  no  very  good  plot  for  her  story  ;  and  its  incidents 
are  often  overstrained  and  extravagant.  But  plot,  incidents  (including 
the  sentimental  speeches  of  hero  and  heroine),  the  story  itself  are  mere 
secondary  objects.  The  main  one  is  to  portray  national  character, 
manners,  arts,  antiquities,  and  literature.  In  doing  this  none  can  deny 
that  she  abounds  in  strokes,  expressive,  profound,  original,  and  power- 
ful. The  reader  is  perpetually  anxious  to  grave  on  his  tablets  the 
numberless  striking  remarks  he  sees,  and  can  no  more  bear  to  read  her 
than  Tacitus,  without  pencil  in  hand.  A  good  deal  also  of  Gil  Bias 
to-day.  Still  aground  ;  wheel  broken  ;  hammering  upon  it  all  night. 
A  hundred  rumours  flitted  amongst  us  ;  a  hundred  sage  counsels  were 
offered  ;  all  in  vain.     The  boat  still  hung  aground.     Sleep  soundly. 
 - 315 - 
276  MASSACHUSETTS   HISTORICAL  SOCIETY.  [Jan. 
Friday,  Dec.  9th.  Still  aground.  Rose  after  the  sun,  and  fifteen  or 
twenty  minutes  after  the  steward,  or  head  waiter,  had  as  usual  walked 
round  by  the  berths,  ringing  a  bell  with  all  his  might.  I  should  have 
spoken  of  the  sleeping  apparatus  ;  mine  an  upper  berth  ;  a  hair  mat- 
tress to  
lie  on  ;  covering,  a  cotton  counterpane,  a  sheet,  and  a  narrow, 
short,  thin  blanket,  besides  my  own  great  coats  and  green  Mackinaw 
fortunately  provided  in  Charlottesville.  But  for  these  appliances  of 
my  own  I  must  have  suffered  much.  News  of  the  steamboat  "  Day- 
ton," 11  miles  below,  stopt  by  the  ice.  At  breakfast  a  seat  at  first 
table  given  me  by  a  fellow  passenger  (Campbell)  who  came  to  me  and 
insisted  that  I  should  occupy  the  one  he  had  taken.  This  is  the  only 
time  I  have  sat  at  the  first  table  since  Marietta.  Ice  close  by  where 
boat  lay ;  go  ashore  ;  skating.  The  journal-writing  passenger  is  Mr. 
Charles  Stearns  of  Springfield,  Massachusetts.  Scraped  acquaintance 
with  him.  Boat  started,  went  4  miles,  and  then  stopped  again ;  pro- 
fessedly on  account  of  ice  below.  Read  Gil  Bias.  Dinner,  meagre. 
Talk  with  Mr.  Stearns.  Mr.  Doughty  read  me  passages  from  his  journal 
in  Illinois.  Rain,  welcome  as  affording  hopes  of  melting  the  ice  and 
raising  the  river  ;  
but  it  soon  ceased.  Weather  warm.  Fight  between 
captain  and  one  of  his  working  hands.  Cards  till  late  at  night,  if  not 
all  night.  They  disturbed  my  sleep.  I  heard  words  indicative  of 
higher  betting.  One  game  played  was  Poker.  A  passenger  who  had 
a  barouche  and  pair  on  board  (as  well  as  a  wife  with  two  comely 
daughters)  exclaimed,  "I'll  put  up  my  best  horse!"  He  was  a  con- 
siderable loser;  but  his  horse  was  not  staked. 
Saturday,  Dec.  10.  Breakfast  (second  table  for  me)  scanty  and 
wretched,  as  usual.  Start  at  10  a.m.;  proceed  20  miles,  and  then 
passing  a  narrow  channel  round  the  west  side  of  Buffington's  Island, 
ran  aground  for  the  rest  of  the  day.  The  island  is  a  mile  long  and 
six  or  eight  hundred  yards  wide,  belongs  to  a  Mr.  Williamson,  and 
is  very  fertile.  Captain  set  us  ashore  to  lighten  boat.  Many  efforts  to 
get  her  loose  ;  all  in  vain.  We  walked  down  the  river  bank  one  or 
two  miles  ;  called  at  a  cabin,  where  I  and  others  ate  a  rude  but  deli- 
cious dinner  of  fried  pork,  pumpkin,  butter,  buttermilk,  and  coarse 
corn  bread.  Mr.  Doughty's  lecture  on  birds.  He  numbers  eleven 
varieties  of  woodpecker  in  the  United  States,  and  ten  of  hawks.     The 
whip-poor-will,     ,  and  night  hawk,  all  distinct  birds.     The  last  is 
what  we  Virginians  improperly  call  the  bat.  Return  to  boat.  Other 
attempts  to  get  her  off,  —  vain.  No  cards  this  evening ;  either  because 
it  is  Saturday  or  from  the  gloom  of  our  situation,  hung  here,  and  nearly 
destitute  of  food  ;  or  because  the  excesses  in  cards  last  night  made  all 
the  players  ashamed  and  loath  to  return  to  them.  Finished  first  volume 
of  Gil  Bias;  no  other  with  me. 
Sunday,  Dec.  llth.     Still  hung.     Second  table  at  breakfast.     No 
 - 316 - 
1892.]  A  JOURNEY   TO  THE  WEST  IN   1836.  277 
bread  proper  since  yesterday  morning.  It  is  only  buckwheat  flour 
made  into  cakes,  so  vile  that  only  hunger  could  make  them  be  eaten. 
My  share  at  this  breakfast  was  but  two,  very  small,  —  not  half  as  much 
as  a  man  in  health  ordinarily  requires.  No  milk  or  cream  yet  for 
coffee  and  tea.  Go  ashore  again,  and  walk  down  as  yesterday  ;  staid 
till  after  dinner-time  ;  ate  none.  Saw  boy  row  skiff  over  river,  and  up 
towards  the  steamboat.  Hailed  him  and  got  him  to  take  three  of  us 
on  board.  Chaffered  for  purchase  of  his  skiff;  asked  $8  ; I   for  giving 
it ;  
but  my  two  companions  would  not.  We  wanted  it  to  row  our- 
selves away  from  the  boat  down  to  Gallipolis,  54  miles  ;  also  two 
ladies,  Mr.  Murdoch's  sisters,  who  came  with  us  in  stage  from 
Frederick,  Maryland,  to  Wheeling  ;  and  Dr.     wife.  It  was  fortu- 
nate that  we  did  not  buy  it.  On  reaching  the  Huntress  Mr.  Stearns 
told  me  that  ten  or  twenty  were  agreeing  to  hire  a  man  to  carry  them 
to  G.  in  a  flat  boat,  and  asked  my  concurrence.  Agreed,  and  set  down 
my  name  on  the  list.  Presently  the  man  who  was  to  carry  us  had  his 
skiff  alongside  to  take  our  trunks  down  to  the  lower  point  of  the 
island,  where  the  flat  boat  lay.  After  vainly  seeking  the  captain  to 
pay  my  passage,  and  get  my  trunk  delivered,  Mr.  S.  and  I  handed  our 
own  trunks  (helping  one  another)  into  the  skiff,  also  two  or  three 
others.  It  then  put  off,  and  had  proceeded  200  yards  when  Captain 
Coonts  appeared.  Mr.  Stearns  tendered  him  a  fair  proportion  of  pas- 
sage money,  as  he  had  before  done  to  the  clerk.  Both  refused  it, 
claiming  not  only  more  than  half  the  whole  passage  money  to  Louis- 
ville, but  $1  a  day  besides  for  the  last  three  days  for  board.  I  ten- 
dered So  
for  my  passage  from  Wheeling  hither.  It  was  in  like  manner 
rejected.  To  Mr.  Stearns  the  captain  was  exceedingly  abusive  and 
menacing.  Swore  our  baggage  should  not  go  ;  and  when  he  found 
that  it  was  a  half  a  mile  off  his  fury  knew  no  bounds.  He  set  his 
engine  at  work,  and  made  such  a  splashing  with  his  only  remaining 
wheel  that  no  skiff  could  come  near  to  take  us  off,  and  we  seemed  in 
danger  of  separation  from  our  trunks.  Some  of  his  people,  however, 
either  by  chance  or  with  design  to  aid  us  (for  crew  and  passengers  were 
all  against  our  captain)  ran  up  a  lighter  or  large,  wide  flat  boat,  like  a 
ferry  boat,  between  us  and  the  shore,  forming  an  easy  communication 
for  us  with  the  land.  We  stept  ashore  by  this  bridge,  and  after  looking 
awhile  at  the  captain,  who  shook  his  fist  at  Mr.  S.,  and  uttered  some 
abuse  which  I  could  not  hear,  we  walked  on  downwards  after  our 
baggage.  It  lay  on  the  beach,  near  the  wigwam  hotel  where  we  dined 
yesterday.  Took  dinner  there  again,  about  4  p.  m.,  a  sumptuous  one, 
indeed.  True,  no  sugar  in  coffee  and  no  butter  ;  
but  there  were  veni- 
son, pork,  pullets,  hardly  grown,  stewed  peaches,  and  excellent  yellow- 
corn  bread,  made  of  meal  finer  than  hominy.  Hardly  ever  relished  a 
meal  more.     Of  the  fifteen  or  twenty  who  promised  or  were  expected 
 - 317 - 
278  MASSACHUSETTS   HISTORICAL  SOCIETY.  [Jan. 
to  join  us  in  the  flat  boat  voyage  only  two  did  so.  We  made  four  in 
a]^  —  Mr.  Stearns,  Woodruff,  Butterick,  and  I.  W.  was  of  Newark, 
New  Jersey  ;  S.  and  B.  of  Massachusetts.  Being  so  few,  concluded  to 
go  in  a  skiff  or  yawl,  instead  of  the  flat  boat.  Our  boatman  (engaged) 
was  a  stout,  active,  and  saucy  mulatto,  either  a  slave  or  hired  servant 
of  Mr.  Williamson,  who  owns  Burlington's  Island.  In  the  midst  of  our 
discussion  with  "  Jeff"  (the  mulatto)  about  the  skiff  or  the  flat  a  man 
came  over  the  river  in  the  very  skiff  which  I  and  others  had  been  chaf- 
fering for  with  the  boy.  We  insisted  on  his  hiring  it  to  us  to  go  to 
Gallipolis.  No.  Then  only  2  or  4  miles  down,  to  a  place  where  we 
could  get  another,  and  send  his  back.  No.  Jeff  and  young  Mr.  Wil- 
liamson (son  
of  old  Mr.  Williamson)  pressed  him  to  lend  or  hire  it  to 
them.  No.  They  offered  him  $3  for  it;  $4;  $5.  No;  he  said  he 
had  given  $5  for  it  only  a  few  days  before.  That  was  more  than  it 
was  worth  ;  
but  he  was  obliged  to  have"  it,  
because  he  was  bound  as  a 
ferryman  to  keep  a  boat  here,  and  this  was  his  ferry  boat.  He  could 
not  possibly  spare  it  on  loan  or  for  hire,  or  on  any  terms,  unless  we 
would  buy  it  of  him  for  $7,  which  was  the  very  least  he  would  take. 
The  English  of  all  this  was,  "  I  see  you  are  determined  upon  having 
a  boat  ;  mine  is  the  only  one  you  can  get ;  and  I  can  make  you  give 
what  I  please,  even  double  the  worth."  We  so  interpreted  him  ;  and 
Mr.  Stearns  (our  leader  and  spokesman)  put  $7  into  his  hands,  and 
the  boat  was  ours.  We  turned  it  up  on  edge,  to  drain  it  of  some  water 
in  the  hold  ;  then  launched  again,  put  in  our  trunks,  two  large 
bundles  of  straw  given  us  by  our  log-hotel  keeper,  and  entered  our- 
selves. It  
was  now  dark,  except  what  light  the  stars  and  a  moon 
three  days  old  afforded.  Jeff  took  the  oars,  my  companions  sat  in 
the  stern,  and  I  in  the  bow  astride  a  trunk.  We  pushed  off.  Half  an 
hour  before  we  did  so  the  Huntress  hobbled  by  us.  She  had  been 
snatched  from  the  shoal,  partly  by  a  vigorous  effort  which  the  captain 
made  in  his  fury  at  our  escape  (after  having  taken  out  nearly  all  his 
freight  by  means  of  lighters)  and  partly  by  a  pull  from  the  steamboat 
Patrick  Henry,  which  just  before  our  departure  came  rushing  up  the 
same  channel,  and  stranded  within  thirty  yards  of  the  "  Huntress." 
The  two  boats  were  commanded  by  brothers,  both  Captains  Koontz.  I 
cannot  say  " clarum"  aut  "venerabile  nomen  gentibus"  The  H.  had 
deposited  many  tons  of  her  freight  a  few  rods  below  the  spot  whence 
our  skiff  ("The  Independence")  bore  us;  and  as  we  glided  out  into 
the  middle  of  the  river  we  passed  her,  relading,  —  a  work  of  several 
hours.  Much  floating  ice,  against  the  cakes  of  which  we  every  moment 
struck  ;  
but  they  always  crumbled  at  the  stroke,  only  jarriDg  us  rather 
fearfully,  heavy  laden  as  we  were,  and  frail  as  our  quivering,  creaking 
barque  was.  After  going  half  a  mile  our  oarsman  warned  us  that  the 
boat  leaked  ;  
he  heard  the  water  trickling  in  and  felt  it  wetting  his 
 - 318 - 
1892. J  A  JOUENEY   TO  THE   WEST  IN    1836.  279 
feet.  He  thought  she  would  not  keep  afloat  more  than  3  miles  unless 
the  leak  was  stopt,  or  the  water  thrown  out.  There  was  a  house  2 
miles  below,  where  we  could  get  a  bailing  vessel  and  a  light.  So  we 
pushed  on,  and  effected  a  landing  near  the  house  he  indicated  ;  pulled 
the  skiff  high  and  dry  ;  took  out  the  trunks  and  the  hay  now  wet  ; 
turned  her  up  to  let  out  the  water  (which  was  3  inches  deep),  and 
while  my  comrades  went  up  to  the  house,  Jeff  and  I  staid  to  guard  the 
baggage.  He  complained  sorely  of  the  cold  ;  talked  of  rheumatism, 
which  had  frequently  beset  him;  and  dropped  hints  of  his  wish  to  quit 
us,  taking  only  a  moderate  proportion  of  his  stipulated  pay  for  the 
service  he  had  already  done.  The  gentlemen  returned  in  half  an  hour, 
with  a  lantern,  two  candles,  some  fresh  hay,  and  a  tin  miik-pan  to  be 
used  as  a  bailing-vessel.  These  they  had  obtained  at  two  houses,  near 
half  a  mile  apart.  They  would  not  listen  to  Jeff's  proposal  of  quitting 
the  service,  though  I  was  desirous,  and  Mr.  Stearns  willing,  to  save  the 
$8  we  were  to  give  him  for  going  to  Gallipolis,  and  row  ourselves.  But 
the  other  two  could  not  row,  and  had  found  Jeff  too  useful  to  be  spared. 
They  flattered  him  by  exaggerating  his  smartness  and  manhood.  "Ah, 
and,"  said  Woodruff,  "  Jeff  will  find  us  cleverer  fellows  than  he  thinks 
for."  In  fine,  Jeff  acquiesced  ■  we  re-laded  and  re-launched  the  "  Inde- 
pendence," and  
my  friends  once  more  put  out  into  the  broad,  icy  Ohio. 
To  warm  my  chilled  feet  I  determined  to  walk  along  the  shore  to  our 
stopping  place  for  the  night,  3  miles  lower  down  (Williamson's  wood- 
yard),  where  we  were  informed  that  we  might  lodge  comfortably,  be 
fed,  and  caulk  our  boat.  It  soon  outwent  me,  so  that  I  ceased  to  hear 
the  oars  and  the  calls  they  now  and  then  made  to  me.  Rough  road, 
often  hardly  traceable  by  the  dim  light  of  stars  and  almost  setting 
moon.  After  going  2  miles  (as  I  thought)  came  to  a  log  house.  Barked 
at  by  dogs  ;  
man  said  it  was  two  miles  to  the  wood-yard  ;  walked  2  miles 
further  (supposed)  ;  another  house,  this  surely  was  Mr.  Williamson's. 
No ;  
it  was  a  mile  off.  At  length  arrived  there  ;  moon  just  setting. 
On  a  gate-post  fronting  the  house  was  a  lantern  which  I  recognized  as 
ours.  Went  in  ;  my  friends  had  been  there  fifteen  minutes.  Said  they 
had  had  a  very  pleasant  passage  down  ;  very  little  leaking,  and  ice  not 
at  all  troublesome.  Three  of  us  went  down,  and  hauled  the  boat 
'k  
high  and  dry,"  leaving  all  our  trunks  in  it.  Mr.  Williamson  (as  a 
man  at  the  house  where  I  called  had  notified  me)  was  not  "  to  home  ; 
gone  to  a  mill  9  miles  off  for  meal."  His  "  woman  "  (as  their  vernacular 
hath  it)  declined  giving  us  breakfast  in  the  morning,  because  bread- 
stuff was  so  scarce.  Supper  we  did  not  want,  except  our  rower,  who 
had  missed  his  dinner.  He,  being  known  to  the  lady  of  the  house, 
was  requested  to  stay  closely  in  the  room  where  we  sat  ;  whether  to 
promote  our  comfort  by  waiting  upon  us  or  to  see  that  we  stole  nothing 
did  not  clearly   appear.     She   directed   him  to  a  cupboard  where  he 
 - 319 - 
280  MASSACHUSETTS   HISTORICAL   SOCIETY.  [Jan. 
might  find  a  segment  of  pie  to  appease  his  appetite,  which  his  row  of  5 
miles  through  a  biting  atmosphere  had  made  something  of  the  keenest. 
Mr.  S.  and  I  sat  up  till  10^.  Jeff  shewed  us  to  our  chamber.  All 
four  slept  in  one  room,  two  in  a  bed ;  
Mr.  S.  and  I  together.  A  straw 
bed  on  the  floor,  one  sheet  and  scanty  covering  ;  
but  weariness  made 
amends  for  all- 
Monday,  Dec.  12.  Slept  soundly  till  near  5,  when  the  coughing  and 
lumbering  of  a  steamboat  was  heard  going  down  the  river.  1  was  the 
only  one  except  Jeff,  who  heard  it;  knew  it  to  be  not  the  Huntress 
from  its  having  two  wheels  in  motion,  the  H.  having  but  one.  Rose  at 
6,  about  daybreak  ;  and  having  dressed  and  washed  sent  our  factotum, 
in  to  ask  the  hostess  for  our  bill.  He  came  back  and  said  its  amount 
would  alarm  us  ;  it  was  six  cents  apiece.  We  paid  him  the  quarter  of 
a  dollar  which  he  deposited  in  the  aforesaid  cupboard  by  her  direction. 
Then  repaired  to  the  beach.  Trunks  all  safe,  but  covered  over  with  a 
cake  of  frost,  and  our  hay  also.  No  caulking  having  been  done  (for  we 
could  get  no  means  for  it,  in  the  absence  of  our  landlady's  husband), 
the  leak  began  as  soon  as  we  re-launched.  I,  as  before,  on  a  trunk  in 
the  bow  ;  my  business  to  give  notice  of  ice  or  snags.  Mr.  Woodruff 
near  the  oarsman  to  bail,  which  he  did  most  industriously.  Had  gone 
2  miles  -when  the  Huntress  overtook  and  passed  us.  Great  waving  of 
handkerchiefs  and  hats  to  us  from  our  friends  on  board  ;  several  of 
them  inviting  us  to  rejoin  them.  We  made  signs  of  dissent,  and  all 
agreed  that  we  would  not  go  on  board  for  $10  each,  besides  our  pas- 
sage. The  rolling  of  the  water,  caused  by  her  wheel  in  passing, 
tossed  our  barque  rather  fearfully,  and  would  have  overset  it, had  not 
our  Palinurus  kept  her  carefully  across  the  ridges  of  water.  Soon 
after  came  up  with  four  sailors  or  boatmen,  late  hands  of  the  Huntress 
who  had  parted  from  her  on  a  quarrel  with  the  captain,  and  put  off  in 
a  skiff  just  an  hour  or  two  before  us.  They  lodged  last  night  4  miles 
below  us.  A  mutual  hail  and  greeting  ensued  ;  and  the  two  skiffs  pro- 
ceeded in  
company.  It  became  my  turn  to  relieve  Mr.  W.  in  bailing. 
Found  it  a  cold  and  fatiguing  service.  By  the  almost  incessant  motion 
of  one  hand  with  the  tin  pail,  all  I  could  do  was  to  keep  the  water 
from  gaining  upon  us.  In  spite  of  me  it  was  at  least  \\  mcn  deep.  Ice 
soon  formed  upon  my  gloves,  and  the  only  way  to  keep  hands  tolerably 
warm  was  to  slap  them  one  at  a  time  across  my  breast,  stage-driver 
fashion.  The  ice  had  increased  during  the  night,  so  that  we  frequently 
struck  upon  large  cakes  of  it,  which  our  rower  sitting  with  his  face 
towards  the  stern  did  not  see,  and  which  the  vigilance  of  our  look-out- 
man  could  not  always  guard  against.  Passed  the  wreck  of  a  large  boat 
stranded  upon  a  sandy  island.  Ran  aground  ourselves  once,  coming 
imperceptibly  into  a  shallow,  pebbly  part  of  the  stream.  Pushed  off 
into  deeper  water,  however,  without  much  difficulty.     Having  gone  8 
 - 320 - 
1892.]  A  JOURNEY  TO  THE  WEST  IN   1836.  281 
miles  we  put  ashore  near  a  log  house,  where  "Jeff"  assured  us  we 
might  expect  a  good  breakfast.     Shallow  water,  so  that  a  landing  was 
somewhat  difficult.     Were  just  about  to  haul   up  the  boat,  and  I  had 
just  been  commissioned  to  go  and  bespeak  breakfast  when  the  cry  of  "  A 
steamboat!  "  was  raised,  and  a  gallant  one,  at  12  knots  an  hour,  came 
rushing  down,  rounding  the  last  turn  of  the  river,  within  half  a  mile  of 
us.     Shoved  off  with  all  speed  into  the  current,  and  made  for  a  point 
600  yards   below,  where  some  men  on  shore  told  us,  and  where  only, 
the  steamboat  could  stop  for  us.     The  four  sailors  also  made  all  speed 
in   the  same  direction.     We   hoisted   handkerchiefs  on   umbrellas,    in 
token  of  distress,  and  called  out  to  the  people  on  board  to  take  us  in. 
A  crowd  appeared  on  deck  gazing  at  us,  and  motioning  with  their  hands 
downwards,  as  if  indicating  that  we  would  be  waited  for  a  little  below. 
To  our  surprise,  and  somewhat  to  our  dismay,  the  steamboat  dashed  on 
as  if  not  noticing  us  ;  the  crowd  appearing  to  be  passengers  only.     Sud- 
denly, however,  on   reaching  the   exact   point  where  we  had  been  told 
she  could  stop  for  us,  at  the  lower  end  of  "  Goose  Island,"  as  suddenly 
as  if  every  drop  of  water  had  in  a  moment  been  drawn  away  and  the 
river  left  dry,  she  halted.     We  —  at  least  I —  did  not  know  till  half  an 
hour  after  that  she  had  "grounded."     I  thought  that  she  had  benevo- 
lently stopt  to  take  us  up.     Both  skiffs  ran  under  her  starboard  quarter, 
before  the  wheel  ;  the  four  sailors  first,  we  next.     All   clambered  on 
board,  with  ready  and  even  eager  help  from  the  firemen  or  other  hands. 
Took  up  baggage  ;  paid  Jeff  $2  for   the  13  miles  he  had  come  with  us, 
to  his  entire  content,  offered  him  our  skiff,  which  he  refused,  saying  he 
would  not  row  it  back  for  it.     The  captain  of  the  "  General  De  Kalb" 
(our  new  steamboat)  being  unwilling  to  have  any  skiff  but  his  own 
lashed  astern  the  "  Independence  "  was  turned  adrift,  to  "  sink  or  swim" 
as  the  chances   of  wind  and  water  might  determine.     We   presently 
found  the  De  K.  fast  aground,  and  so  full  of  passengers  that  the  captain 
had  (justifiably   I   dare  say)  intended  not   to  stop  for  us   of  the   two 
skiffs.    230  souls  on  board.     Entered  the  cabin,  a  superb  one  ;  
berths 
protected  by  curtains    projecting   in   a   bow  form,  so   as    to   make  in 
front  of  each  a  space,  screened  from  view,  large  enough  to  dress,  &c. 
Curtains  of  blue  and  pink  silk  most  tastefully  arranged.     Among  the 
thirty  or  forty  gentlemen  in  the  cabin  recognized  several  who  had  been 
in  the  Robert  Emmett,  and  been  prevented  from  coming  into  the  Hun- 
tress by  
the  exorbitant  passage-money  demanded  of  them,  $18  from 
near  Marietta  to  Cincinnati.     A  breakfast,  the  best  we  had  eaten  for  a 
week,  was  ready  in  five  minutes,  and  had  ample  justice  done  it  in  the  eat- 
ing.    Much  curiosity  shown  by  our  new  fellow-passengers  to  know  the 
whys  and  the  hows  of  our  travels,  and  for  a  quarter  of  an  hour,  we  were 
the  Gullivers  of  the  cabin  fireside.    The  captain  presently  announced  that 
we  must  land  to  lighten  the  boat.     Six  or  eight  yawl-loads  of  us,  making 
36 
 - 321 - 
282  MASSACHUSETTS   HISTORICAL   SOCIETY.  [Jan. 
fifteen  or  twenty  tons  of  human  flesh,  accordingly  went  ashore,  and  strolled 
adown  it.  Orders  came  to  us  to  walk  down  to  a  woodyard  2  miles  be- 
low, where  the  boat  would  overtake  us.  Spent  from  10^-  till  2\  in  this 
exercise.  Went  into  three  or  four  houses  where  Messrs.  Stearns  and 
Woodruff  diverted  themselves  and  me  talking  with  and  quizzing  the 
women.  One  gude  wife  of  whom  we  bought  some  apples  was  seduced 
into  some  amusing  details  of  her  family  concerns,  number  and  ages  of 
children,  &c.  I  liked  her  honest  and  unsuspecting  praises  of  one  absent 
daughter  who  was  "  the  smartest  sort  of  a  gal,"  had  kept  at  the  head 
of  all  her  classes  at  school,  so  that  when  she  "  turned  down  "  the  head 
scholar,  (as  she  was  sure  to  do)  the  teacher  was  wont  to  say  they  might 
all  bid  good  bye  to  the  head  then,  as  she  was  certain  to  keep  it.  She 
had  gone  as  far  in  learning  as  the  schoolmasters  hereabouts  could 
carry  her,  and  was  now  on  the  invitation  of  a  cousin  in  Louisville 
spending  the  winter  there,  greatly  to  her  mother's  discontent.  Only 
14,  "a  great  writer,"  yet  had  not  written  a  letter  home,  though  absent 
nearly  a  month.     At  school  in  Louisville. 
Entered  another  more  creditable-lookiug  house,  and  ate  a  good  dinner, 
furnished  by  an  obliging,  kind-spoken,  tidy  dame.  In  another  house 
my  companions  mentioned  the  "  smartest  sort  of  a  gal "  whom  we  had 
heard  of.  The  two  ladies  present  instantly  fell  upon  her  and  her 
mother,  and  would  have  demolished  both  by  sneer  and  insinuation  if 
the  jealousy  manifestly  excited  by  the  daughter's  qualities  (which  my 
messmates  faithfully  enumerated  as  per  list  furnished)  had  not  shewn 
itself  so  plainly  as  to  neutralize  the  venom  it  engendered. 
Some  laughable  horseplay  of  wit  (the  wagoner  and  boatman  kind  of 
wit)  between  two  or  three  of  our  passengers,  while  waiting  in  the  wood- 
yard,  and  a  horseman  who  appeared  on  the  Virginia  shore,  bawling  for 
a  ferryboat.  "  The  river  might  be  forded."  "  Why  did  not  he  break 
through  the  ice  and  ride  over  ? "  ''  
There  was  no  ferryman  but  an  old 
woman,  and  she  was  sick,"  &c,  &c.  At  all  this  the  horseman  got  very 
warm,  and  uttered  the  angriest  and  foulest  abuse,  which  drew  shouts  of 
still  more  provoking  laughter  from  his  mockers.  At  length  the  boat 
came  down,  and  we  went  aboard.  In  an  hour  or  two  overtook  the 
Huntress.  My  three  fellow  adventurers  mounted  the  top  (the  hurricane 
deck)  and  shouted  and  waved  their  handkerchiefs  on  canes,  &c.  as  we 
passed  ;  to  which  our  friends  replied  by  cheers,  waving  hats,  &c.  The 
Huntress  captain,  or  some  one  in  his  interest,  called  out  that  we  "  had 
better  come  and  pay  our  passage."  Going  twice  as  fast  we  soon  passed. 
Point  Pleasant;  Gallipolis  4  miles  lower.  Lie  by,  30  miles  above 
Guyandotte,  because  the  night  was  dark  and  channel  dangerous.  I 
spent  the  evening  in  reading  Sparks'  Life  of  Arnold,  lent  by  Mr. 
Stearns,  all  but  the  last  twenty  or  thirty  pages.  Mr.  S.  tells  me  some 
curious  things  of  the  birth  and  early  life  of  Mr.  Sparks.     Born  in  the 
 - 322 - 
1892.]  A  JOUKNEY  TO   THE   WEST   IN   1836.  283 
eastern  part  of  Connecticut,  poor,  a  youth  of  scuffling.  Slept  on  a 
mattress  upon  the  cabin  floor.  Berths,  table,  and  floor,  all  filled.  I  had 
aspired  to  a  place  upon  the  table,  but  was  too  late.  Then  to  a  certain 
position  on  the  floor,  not  more  than  ten  feet  from  the  fire.  Vain  ; fore- 
stalled. So  
was  fain  to  lie  near  the  door  in  the  passway  to  the  fire 
place,  so  that  the  waiters  and  others  in  going  through  the  room  had  to 
step  cautiously  to  avoid  treading  upon  me. 
Tuesday,  Dec.  13.  At  daybreak  the  steward  walked  round  the  cabin, 
ringing  the  bell.  Most  of  us,  especially  us  who  slept  on  the  floor,  rose 
at  this.  Boat  got  under  way.  Before  breakfast  finished  the  life  of 
Arnold.  Gouge  on  Banking  ;  this  cannot  be  read  quite  so  fast.  Every 
page  requires  an  hour,  to  read,  re-read,  and  think  upon.  Passed  Guy- 
andotte.  I  am  now  where  I  was  once  before,  viz.,  in  August  last. 
Again  passed  the  Huntress,  which,  it  seems,  had  slipt  by  us  in  the 
night.  Our  bread  was  out,  so  no  dinner  till  we  reached  Portsmouth, 
Ohio  (mouth  of  the  Scioto),  where  a  supply  was  obtained.  This  was 
3  or  4  o'clock.  Visited  a  barber  on  shore.  President's  message.  Won- 
derful eagerness  to  read  it  or  hear  it  manifested.  There  was  no  loud 
reader,  however,  disposed  to  "  make  it. vocal  "  for  the  whole  company. 
The  solicitude  about  it  is  one  small  sign  of  that  overshadowing  magni- 
tude which  Presidential  power  and  influence  are  fast  acquiring  in  this 
country.  There  is  less  difference  than  is  worth  boasting  of  between 
this  hungering  after  the  words  which  come  even  from  the  secretaries  of 
our  august  chief  (sanctioned  only  by  his  name)  aud  the  animated  inter- 
est with  which  the  crowd  in  Paris  used  to  see  the  king  at  dinner: 
"  (Hell  le  roi  mange!  vive  le  roi  1 "  At  sunset  a  high  wind,  producing 
danger  of  a  capsize,  obliged  our  captain  to  lie  to  in  a  sheltered  position. 
The  bread  being  still  scarce  and  dinner  late  we  had  no  supper.  Sounds 
of  mirth  came  up  from  the  kitchen  and  steerage  below.  W.  and  I  and 
an  exceedingly  good-humoured  frank  fellow  from  Maine,  Stanley  by 
name,  went  down  to  see  the  fun.  A  negro  was  fiddling,  and  others 
were  dancing.  They  stopt  and  the  fiddler  absconded  on  our  coming, 
but  they  were  soon  rallied.  We  prevailed  upon  two  of  the  black  wait- 
ers to lead  out  two  "  sable  fair  ones,"  and  they  footed  it  merrily  upon  a 
raised  hatchway  of  four  or  five  feet  square  till  both  ladies  and  gentle- 
men were  tired.  A  boy  of  13  gave  a  jig  in  the  true  double-trouble 
style.  The  company  above,  hearing  of  our  sport,  caused  the  male  per- 
formers to go  up  to  the  cabin.  There  on  the  table  three  negro  lads 
went  through  a  variety  of  steps  and  figures  to  the  unspeakable  diversion 
of  especially  the  northerners  present,  who  were  unused  to  such  a  sight. 
One  lad  "  clapped  Juba"  while  another  danced  it, and  the  latter  jumped 
Jim  Crow  to  similar  music,  with  boundless  applause.  The  performers 
began  with  shoes  off,  but  we  soon  made  them  pull  off  their  socks  too, 
and  then  they  were  far  more  active.      Several  reels   (three  handed) 
 - 323 - 
284  MASSACHUSETTS   HISTORICAL  SOCIETY.  [Jan. 
were  danced  to  the  violin  ;  all  on  the  table.  At  the  close  a  shower  of 
bits  and  half-bits,  nine-pences  and  four-pence-half-pennies,  fell  upon  the 
table,  for  which  a  scramble  among  the  dancers  closed  the  evening's  en- 
tertainment. To  
my  couch  at  9^  ;  slept  as  last  night  soundly  and 
pleasantly.     The  Huntress  passed  us  in  the  night. 
Wednesday,   Dec.    \kth.     Off  before  day.     Gouge  on  Banking  till 
breakfast.       Talk  with  Mr.  «  of  Fairfield  County,  Connecticut. 
He  owns  an  immense  body  (80,000  acres)  of  Western  Virginia  land, 
Harrison,  Lewis,  Wood,  &c,  partly  on  the  Little  Kanhawa.  Intends 
getting  New  Englanders  to  settle  on  it  to  raise  sheep.  Good  business. 
Tract  also  in  the  peninsula  formed  by  Sandusky  Bay,  near  Sandusky 
City,  in  sight  of  railroad  from  Toledo  to  Sandusky  City.  Played  four 
games  of  draughts  with  Mr.  Butterick  ;  
beaten  with  ease  in  all.  Passed 
the  Huntress  again.  Maysville,  Kentucky  ;  Ripley,  Ohio.  Letters 
home  to  Lanty,  Lucy,  Mary  M.  T.,  and  my  father.  Several  whist 
tables  have  been  in  constant  play  most  of  the  day.  The  draughts- 
board  also  in  use,  both  among  ladies  and  gentlemen.  No  betting,  how- 
ever. Five  or  six  keepers  of  journals  are  to  be  seen.  Some  of  them 
have  close-written  books.  If  there  are  others,  like  me,  not  perceptible 
to  the  public  eye  in  taking  notes,  the  number  is  such  as  to  hold  out 
abundant  prospect  of  "  Pickwickian  "  edification.  Stanley  of  Maine  is 
so  frank-mannered  that  I  could  have  sworn  till  told  otherwise  that  he 
was  born  and  raised  in  a  Southern  State.  Moreover  this  is  his  first 
journey  southward. 
Nearing  Cincinnati,  a  testimonial  honorary  to  the  captain  (   ) 
was  proposed  and  subscribed  to  unanimously  by  the  passengers.  It 
merely  thanked  him  for  his  skilful  management  and  gentlemanly  con- 
duct. Somebody  then  proposed  twenty-five  cents  apiece  to  the  steward. 
Great  parade  and  strong  appeals  to  all,  and  I  believe  every  one  present 
threw  in  but  me.  Reached  Cincinnati  about  7.  Went  to  Pearl  St. 
House,  and  took  a  room  ;  
fire,  &c.  Then  went  to  an  exhibition  of  the 
Hydro-Oxygen  Microscope,  of  which  in  walking  up  I  had  seen  the 
sign.  It  was  half  over  ;  
but  enough  was  left  to  please,  if  not  surprise. 
Room  darkened.  A  sheet  behind  which  lights  were  discernible  was 
spread  across  room,  between  audience  and  exhibitor  who  was  invisible. 
He  announced  each  thing  as  it  was  presented  to  view  on  that  sheet. 
Shadows  only  were  presented.  A  drop  of  water  magnified  to  a  foot  in 
extent  teemed  with  monsters  invisible  to  the  naked  eye.     In   three  or 
four  drops  were  a  hideous   animal   called  the    or  water  tiger, 
snatching  and  eating  the  animalcules  which  swam  in  shoals  through  the 
apparent  sea  around  him.  He  seemed  two  and  a  half  or  three  feet 
long.  Near  him  was  another,  the  Lapidula.  They  were  peaceably 
disposed  to  each  other.  Animalcules  shaped  much  like  tadpoles,  and 
from  one  to  four  inches   long,  all  invisible  to  the  unaided  eye.     The 
 - 324 - 
1892.1  A  JOURNEY   TO  THE  WEST  IN  1836.  285 
water  tiger  would  chase  them  furiously,  and  now  and  then  seize  one 
which  he  would  soon  devour.  A  piece  of  fine  French  cambric  seemed 
a  network  of  rope,  the  meshes  five  inches  in  diameter,  and  the  rope 
three-quarters  of  an  inch  thick.  The  wing  of  a  gnat,  the  foot  of  a 
house-fly,  the  biting  apparatus  of  a  honey-bee,  a  whole  flea,  a  bedbug, 
&c,  &c,  were  all  presented.  The  magnifying  power  was  5,000,000 
times.  The  instrument  was  not  shewn  to  the  company.  When  the 
show  closed,  I  waited  at  the  head  of  the  stairs,  and  accosting  the  exhib- 
itor when  he  appeared  asked  to  see  the  microscope  and  its  accompani- 
ments. He  
readily  consented,  and  took  me  into  the  apartment  where  it 
was.  The  tube,  about  two  or  three  inches  diameter  and  eight  or  ten 
long,  was  placed  horizontally  in  a  frame  six  or  eight  feet  from  the  sheet 
on  which  the  figures  were  exhibited  to  the  company.  A  few  inches 
from  the  end  which  was  furthest  from  the  sheet  was  a  
Samp  of  hydrogen 
and  oxygen  gas.  To  feed  it  was  on  each  side  a  tin  or  sheet  iron  gaso- 
meter (the  
one  of  hydrogen,  the  other  oxygen)  from  which  the  gases 
came  in  tubes  that  met  near  the  lamp,  played  upon  by  a  blow  pipe.  A 
little  way  in  the  microscope  from  the  lamp  were  placed  two  lenses,  then 
the  object.  Its  shadow  magnified  by  the  lenses  was  cast  by  the  light 
of  the  lamp  upon  the  sheet.  A  good  deal  of  the  magnifying  was  due 
not  to  the  lenses  but  to  the  light  placed  close  to  the  object,  and  thus 
throwing  a  much  enlarged  shadow  of  it  upon  the  sheet.  And  it  may 
well  be  suspected  that  a  great  increase  of  the  magnifying  power  which 
the  showman  once  announced  was  produced  merely  by  bringing  the 
lamp  and  object  nearer  together.  No  mirror  or  reflection  as  in  the 
solar  microscope.     Returned  to  lodgings.     To  bed  at  12. 
Thursday,  Dec.  15th.  Up  at  1\  ;  went  to  steamboat  wharf.  Hun- 
tress there.  Went  on  board  several  boats.  Breakfast.  Newspapers  ; 
advertisement  of  Dr.  Waldo,  oculist  ;  certificates  that  glass  eyes  put 
in  by  him  had  not  been,  till  after  minutes  close  inspection,  distinguish- 
able from  the  natural  eye.  Messrs.  Key  and  Weems  of  Maryland  and 
several  other  gentlemen  mentioned  the  "  Commerce  "  steamboat  as  a 
good  one  in  which  they  were  going  to  Louisville.  Sent  baggage  on 
board  her.  Book  stores,  to  inquire  for  a  book  on  the  steam  engine,  — 
none  but  Lardner's  enlarged  by  Renwick.  Entirely  too  long  and  too 
little  popular  in  its  character.  In  the  "  Commerce  "  met  with  one  or 
two  of  my  Huntress  fellow-sufferers.  Stept  into  the  "  Ben  Franklin  " 
(a  still  more  superb  boat)  in  which  most  of  them  were  going  down. 
Presently  some  one  announced  that  the  Huntress  captain  (Koontz)  had 
sued  out  process  against  us  for  passage  money  ;  and  just  then  his  clerk 
with  a  constable  appeared  at  the  entrance  of  the  cabin.  Messrs.  Stearns, 
Woodruff,  and  I  (the  only  defaulters)  stepped  up  and  declared  our  names. 
There  was  no  warrant  against  me  ;  I  knew  not  why  ;  
but  the  other  two 
were  summoned  to  attend  a  magistrate  forthwith  to  answer  the  captain's 
 - 325 - 
286  MASSACHUSETTS   HISTORICAL  SOCIETY.  [Jan. 
claim  for  $13.  They  went  accompanied  by  a  throng  of  their  fellow  pas- 
sengers, at  
once  to  express  sympathy  and  to  testify  to  the  circumstances 
in  their  favour.  Each  side  employed  a  lawyer,  and  after  a  discussion 
;  
of  some  two  hours,  his  Worship,  the  Justice,  gave  judgment  against  the 
captain  for  all  the  costs,  allowing  him  only  to  receive  the  $8  which  my 
friends  had  tendered,  and  which  they  were  still  ready  to  pay.  Three 
other  passengers,  of  whom  he  had  extorted  an  excessive  sum,  warranted 
him  for  the  excess  and  recovered  it ;  the  justice  saying  that  if  they  had 
claimed  more  he  would  have  adjudged  it  to  them.  These  particulars  of 
the  law-suits  I  learned  at  Louisville. 
Returned  to  the  Commerce,  and  she  started  about  12.  Our  Huntress 
and  skiff  adventure  was  the  theme  of  much  curiosity  and  conversation 
with  the  passengers,  and  our  now  captain  came  to  hear  from  me  the 
particulars  of  the  whole  affair.  Of  all  the  incidents  none  seemed  to  ex- 
cite more  indignation,  blended,  however,  with  amusement  for  its  absurd- 
ity, than  the  demand  of  $1  a  day  extra  for  board  ;  when  for  nearly  two 
days  there  had  been  no  bread  except  thin  and  miserable  buckwheat 
cakes,  and  so  of  other  eatables.  The  claim  was  a  mockery,  at  once 
provoking  and  laughable.  Passed  Lawrenceburg,  Vevay,  Madison. 
Overtaken  by  the  Ben  Franklin  which  had  come  without  my  friends, 
they  being  detained  by  their  lawsuits.  Our  meals,  berths,  and  accommo- 
dations generally  in  the  Commerce  are  in  a  style  of  superior  comfort  and 
elegance.  Read  the  President's  message  ;  like  it,  and  go  with  the 
writer  or  writers  (for  it  seems  the  work  of  several  hands,  among  which 
General  J.'s  caunot  be  numbered),  in  most  of  his  or  their  views.  Gouge 
on  Banking  has  evidently  been  studied  by  him  who  wrote  the  part  re- 
lating to  
Banks  and  currency  ;  and  radical,  if  not  visionary  and  chimer- 
ical as  much  of  that  part  would  seem  to  what  are  called  practical, 
business  men,  it  appears  to  me  sound,  rational,  practicable.  I  allude 
particularly  to  the  banishment  of  bank  notes  under  the  denomination  of 
20  or  even  50  $,  and  the  substitution  of  gold  and  silver.  Nay,  even  the 
total  disuse  of  paper  money  is  to  me  no  chimera.  Specie  and  bills  of 
exchange  are  obvious  and  preferable  substitutes.  Wrote  to  Patton. 
Finished  Gouge  on  Banking,  and  began  his  History  of  Banking  in  the 
United  States.  Read  last  winter  and  abridged  a  review  and  abridg- 
ment of  
it  in  the  Westminster  Review.     Sleep  at  11. 
Friday,  Dec.  \§th.  At  daybreak  found  we  had  lain  by  most  of  the 
night,  so  that  instead  of  being  at  Louisville,  as  we  had  been  made  to 
expect,  we  were  30  miles  above  it ;  two  inches  of  snow,  and  still  falling. 
It  presently  turned  to  rain.  Jefferson ville,  Indiana,  just  above  Louis- 
ville, a  
nourishing  town  of  150  or  200  houses.  As  we  neared  the  wharf 
at  Louisville  our  boat  struck  violently  on  a  rock  at  bottom,  then  tilted 
successively  on  both  sides,  and  at  each  tilt  dipped  up  a  good  deal  of 
water,  her  gunwales  going  under.      Captain   not  aware  of  any  seri- 
 - 326 - 
1892.]  A   JOURNEY   TO   THE   WEST   IN    1836.  287 
ous  injury  fixed  2  p.  m.  as  the  certain  hour  of  departure.  I  go  with 
him  265  miles  further  to  Shawneetown,  Illinois.  Entered  an  extensive 
store  over  which  was  the  name  of  G.  Garland,  thinking  there  to  learn 
the  whereabouts  of  my  friends  Edward  Garland  and  others.  Suc- 
ceeded ;  
G.  G.  from  the  northern  neck  of  Virginia.  Entered  book- 
store, large  assortment.  Bought  umbrella,  for  it  was  raining.  Went  to 
Dr.  Cochran's  and  found  my  friends,  Mrs.  Winston,  Mrs.  Cochran, 
Edward  G.,  &c.  Joyful  meeting.  Committed  to  E.  $5  to  tender  to 
Captain  K.  for  the  third  time,  with  a  note  recapitulating  the  reason 
why  I  should  pay  him  no  more.  My  friends  here  think  I  ought  to  pay 
him  nothing.  J.  O.  C,  having  walked  to  wharf,  returned  with  news 
that  the  Commerce  was  sinking,  a  large  hole  having  been  made  in  her 
bottom  by  the  strike  on  entering  the  basin.  They  were  unlading  her 
with  all  speed.  Went  in  a  hack  to  Portland  2  miles  below  to  overtake 
the  Vicksburg,  which  was  said  to  have  just  passed  through  the  canal- 
'T  was  too  late.  When  we  (Mr.  Cochran  accompanied  me)  arrived  she 
had  been  gone  two  or  three  hours.  Canal,  2  miles  long ;  2  locks  ; fall, 
27  feet  ;  depth  from  1\  to  6  or  8  feet,  fluctuating  with  the  river,  whence 
alone  it  is  fed.  Width  of  lock,  50  feet.  Boats  are  from  48  to  60  feet 
wide.  Some  pass  which  are  only  an  inch  or  even  half  an  inch  narrower 
than  the  lock,  so  as  frequently  to  rub  hard  in  transit.  Some  are  ten  or 
twelve  feet  too  wide  to  pass  at  all,  and  have  to  lie  below,  sending  up 
and  bringing  down  their  freight  by  lighters.  The  toll  for  passing  up 
and  down  is  sixty-six  cents  per  ton,  and  as  some  boats  are  of  700  tons 
they  pay  $462.  Canal  cost  980  odd  thousand  dollars  ;  f  of  it  belong 
to  the  United  States  ;  the  rest  to  individual  stockholders.  Drove  back 
to  the  city  ;  25,000  inhabitants  ;  60  lawyers  ;  coal  25  cents  a  bushel 
(bituminous)  ;  eggs  37^-  cents  a  dozen  ;  butter  37|-  cents  a  pound. 
With  us  in  the  hack  were  two  men,  one  of  them  a  pilot  through  the 
falls,  the  most  absurdly  and  offensively  frequent  swearer  I  ever  met 
with.  Protests  that  the  canal  has  deprived  him  of  many  hundreds  a 
year.  He  used  to  have  $100  for  guiding  one  through  the  falls,  up  and 
down.  Mr.  C.  took  me  into  the  steamboat  Henry  Clay.  Surpassed  all 
that  I  have  before  seen  of  splendor  and  commodiousness  in  steamboats. 
No  berths  in  cabin  ;  all  staterooms.  Nothing  on  the  Hudson  or  Long 
Island  Sound  can  compare  with  it.  The  North  America  is  said  to  be 
still  more  magnificent  ;  the  Homer  yet  superior  ;  and  the  Persian  to 
surpass  all  others.  The  N.  A.  and  Homer  are  lying  here.  Went  to 
Gait  House,  a  new  and  elegant  hotel,  almost  vieing  with  the  Tremont 
of  Boston.  Walked  over  it,  and  from  its  top  had  as  good  a  view  of 
Louisville  as  the  cloudy  sky  would  allow.  There  is  great  dearth  of 
handsome  buildings.  The  City  Hospital,  south  from  the  Gait  House,  is 
the  only  other  one  that  strikes  the  eye.  Four  banks,  mothers  or 
branches;  streets  run  parallel   to  river,  and  at  right  angles  to  those. 
 - 327 - 
288  MASSACHUSETTS   HISTORICAL  SOCIETY.  [Jan. 
The  former  have  arbitrary  names,  (1)  Water  Street,  (2)  Main,  (3)  Mar- 
ket, &c.  The  latter  are  numbered,  beginning  just  above  the  Gait 
House  with  1st  Street;  just  below  is  2d  Street;  then  3d  or  Pearl 
Street,  &c.     Some  above  1st  have  arbitrary  names,  Clay,  Adams,  &c. 
They  had  waited  dinner  an  hour  for  us  at  Dr.  C.'s  ;  we  had  dined  in 
the  Commerce.  Supped  at  Dr.  C.'s,  and  sat  till  9.  He  is  communica- 
tive and  experienced,  moderately  intelligent;  knows  much  of  the  courts 
of  Kentucky,  history,  and  great  men.  Says  the  greatest  (meaning  the 
most  strong-minded)  that  she  has  produced  was  Jesse  Bledsoe,  once  a 
Judge.  Intemperate  drinking  ruined  him;  learned  and  eloquent. 
Argued  causes  when  drunk,  and  with  overwhelming  ability.  As  judge 
was  often  drunk  upon  the  bench.  Left  Kentucky  at  last,  and  settled 
as  lawyer  at    ,  
Mississippi,  wherefor  a  while  he  gave  tokens  of  en- 
tire reformation.  But  he  began  to  touch  and  taste  again.  Then  his 
relapse  was  speedy.  He  fell  from  a  high  stand  and  lucrative  practice 
into  contempt  and  poverty,  and  at  length  crossed  over  to  Louisiana 
where  at  Natchitoches,  last  spring  or  summer,  he  died.  Dr.  C.  knew 
Barry  intimately.  He  was  eloquent,  especially  in  a  stump  speech,  but 
too  tempestuous.  A  leading  partisan  of  the  Relief  system,  and  a  Judge 
of  the  famous  New  Court.  As  we  sat  a  carriage  was  heard  at  the  door, 
and  then  a  knock.  A  gentleman  entered,  who  told  Dr.  C.  that  in  look- 
ing over  the  register  of  guests  at  the  Gait  House  he  had  seen  the  name 
of  Mr.  M.  of  Virginia,  and  learning  that  he  was  here  had  taken  a  hack 
and  come  to  see  him.  Not  doubting  that  it  was  an  officer,  with  a  war- 
rant in  
behalf  of  the  Huntress  captain  (for  1  expected  it  here),  I  stept 
up  and  announced  myself.  Instead  of  being  an  officer  the  gentleman 
said  that  he  was  an  early  acquaintance  of  mine,  and  had  often  seen  me 
at  his  grandfather's  (old  Mr.  Morton's),  when  we  were  children,  and  he 
had  come  to  see  me  for  "  auld  lang  syne,"  though  his  place  was  taken  in 
the  stage  by  which  he  was  to  proceed  that  night  to  his  home,  near  Frank- 
fort. Name,  William  Robinson.  I  soon  recollected  him,  as  the  son  of 
wellnigh  my  earliest  instructor,  Martin  R.,  a  good  Scotchman,  whose 
teaching  of  26  years  ago  I  still  remember  with  pleasure  and  gratitude. 
The  twenty-five  minutes  which  my  old  acquaintance  could  stay  were 
spent  in  a  crowd  of  inquiries  after  our  common  friends  ;  and  he  then 
took  his  leave,  with  a  cordial  invitation  to  me  to  visit  him.  Such  an 
instance  of  kind  remembrance  in  one  whom  I  knew  very  slightly,  and 
had  not  seen  since  my  eleventh  year  (1813)  was  of  course  very  gratify- 
ing, and  Dr.  C.  said  it  was  "  extra-or-di-nary,"  —  such,  added  he,  "as 
only  a  Kentuckian  would  practise."  Walked  or  rather  waded  to  my 
lodging  at  the  Gait  House  at  9,  despite  the  almost  forcible  opposition  of 
Dr.  C.  and  his  house.  A  bed  had  been  made  ready  for  me  before 
night,  &c,  &c.  Shewn  to  a  warm  room  in  the  fourth  story.  To  bed 
at  12. 
 - 328 - 
1892.]  A   JOURNEY   TO    THE   WEST   IN    1836.  289 
Saturday,  Dec.  17.  Up  at  8.  To  wharf.  Huntress  there.  Dr. 
C.'s,  by  appointment,  to  breakfast.  Walk  ;  water  in  streets  all  turned 
to  ice;  and  very  cold.  The  morning  papers  state  a  rumour  that  to  suc- 
ceed Mr.  Clay  (who  declines  a  re-election  to  the  United  States  Senate) 
a  Mr.  John  L.  Helm  has  been  chosen  by  the  Kentucky  Legislature,  a 
man  whom  Dr.  C,  Jr.,  never  heard  of  and  Dr.  C,  Sr.,  is  not  sure  that 
he  knows  anything  about,  though  he  thinks  the  name  is  not  unfamiliar. 
It  cannot  be.     Mr.  C.  bore  my  money  to  Captain  Koontz,  and  returned 
with  a  refusal  of  it,  
the  Captain  saying  that  "  Mr.  M.  was  a  d   d  mean 
man,  who  had  left  the  boat  without  paying  his  passage."  He  would  ac- 
cept nothing  less  than  $8,  and  I  might  keep  my  money.  Agreed. 
Chief  lawyers  of  Louisville,  Mr.  Guthrie  and  Mr.  Rowan.  A  Chancery 
Court  for  the  city  is  held  by  Bibb,  Chancellor  ;  the  only  separate  one 
in  the  State.  Saw  several  of  my  Huntress  fellow  passengers  at  the 
Gait  House.  To  Dr.  C.'s  to  dinner,  having  engaged  to  embark  in  the 
Moravian,  which  goes  at  4  p.  m.  Dr.  C.'s  story  of  Mr.  Briton,  Epis- 
copal clergyman  of  L.,  cured  of  cholera  by  calomel  in  doses  of  3  ounces 
each,  to  the  amount  of  between  3  and  4  pounds,  administered  by 
Dr.  Cook,  Clinical,  &c,  Professor  in  Transylvania  University.  Dr.  C. 
doubts  Mr.  B.'s  accuracy,  but  says  calomel  is  dealt  out  in  Western 
practice  with  a  profusion  that  would  astound  Eastern  practisers  ;  ex.  gr. 
10  or  12  grains  every  two  hours,  for  24  or  36  or  48  hours,  so  that  the 
patient  would  in  two  days  have  taken  200  grains  or  more. 
Leave  of  friends.  Saw  and  shook  hands  with  Mr.  James  C.  Camp- 
bell of  
Geneva,  New  York,  to  whose  politeness  I  owed  the  only  seat  at 
the  first  table  which  I  had  in  the  Huntress.  He  is  going  to  the  S.  W- 
in  quect  of  fortune  ;  thinks  of  going  with  General  Houston  to  Texas. 
Went  on  board  the  "  Havana,"  which  was  just  starting  downward  ; 
saw  Mr.  Murdoch  and  his  sister,  General  H.,  and  others  ;  pressed  and 
wished  to  join  them,  but  trunk  on  Moravian,  and  name  set  down.  M. 
not  start  tonight.  Supper  on  board.  Captain,  gentlemanly  and  sensi- 
ble. Tonnage  calculated  by  multiplying  keel,  beam,  and  depth  of  hold, 
and  dividing  last  product  by  96.  Captain  says  M.  is  of  800  tons,  but 
as  her  keel  is  153  feet,  beam  32 J,  depth  8  (by  his  own  account  and  rule 
of  calculating),  the  tonnage  is  but  455+.  Seven  boilers  cylindrical, 
horizontal,  parallel  ; 24  feet  long,  34  inches  diameter,  one  flue  to  each 
of  14  inches  diameter;  some  have  5  flues  each,  2  of  12  inches  at  bot- 
tom and  3  of  8  inches  on  those.  Top  of  uppermost  flue  should  be 
about  half  way  up  boiler,  and  water  over  it,  so  as  to  leave  about  one 
third  of  boiler  empty,  for  steam  to  be  formed.  Iron  J  inch  thick. 
When  boat  tilts  so  as  to  uncover  flue  it  takes  twenty  or  thirty  feet  to 
heat  so  as  to  cause  explosion.  Fifteen  firemen  in  three  watches  of 
five  each,  4  hours  at  a  time.  18  to  21  cords  of  wood  daily  going  down 
river;  24  to  26  going  up;  $3  to  $3.50  a  cord.     Coal  next  year,  from 
37 
 - 329 - 
290  MASSACHUSETTS   HISTORICAL   SOCIETY.  [Jan. 
mines  down  the  river  ;  
better  than  wood.     A  Michiganian  is  aboard 
going  to  Texas,  recruited  by  Colonel     of  Louisville  ;  
his  name,    
Pardee  ;  
has    a  brother,     Pardee,   on    Grand   River  turnpike,   24 
miles  from  Detroit,  whom  he  says  I  must  visit  if  I  go  thither.     I  would 
be  pleased  with  his  neighbor     Sherman.     Tells  me  of  a  mill  used 
in  M.  wrought  by  fall  of  18  inches,  works  under  water.     Slept  in  steam- 
boat, bed  hard,  and  berth  cold. 
Sunday,  Dec.  18th.  Post  Office,  to  put  in  letters  written  last  night. 
Streets  icy.  Passengers  began  to  come  in.  T.  Bankhead,  Ben.  Winn, 
Nat.  Wolfe.  B.  and  Winn  did  not  come  to  terms  with  captain.  Wolfe 
stops  here.  Mr.  William  S.  Archer  and  Mr.  Barksdale,  6  ft.  1|-  in. 
high  and  straight  as  a  West  Point  cadet.  Great  crowd  and  bustle. 
Turkeys  in  coops;  pork  in  barrels,  and  separate  hams;  passengers; 
and  young  Durham  cattle,  one  intractable,  pulled  and  driven  on  board 
with  difficulty.  Another  missed  the  planks  and  swam  round  several 
steamboats  in  the  river  and  through  ice,  but  was  saved  and  brought  in 
unhurt  ;  horses,  &c,  &c.  Visit  to  barber's  shop.  Mr.  Cochran  came  to 
get  advice  respecting  administration  in  Virginia  and  proceeding  to  effect 
sale  of  infant's  land.  Gave  it  in  writing.  A  gentleman  going  with 
goods  on  freight  to  New  Orleans,  pays  for  a  barrel  of  pork  weighing 
300,  $1.25;  keg  of  lard  (60  lbs.)  20  cents;  other  goods  75  cents  a 
cwt.,  and  gets  his  own  passage  gratis.  Dinner.  Leave  wharf  and  enter 
canal  ;  several  hours  in  passing  it,  many  hard  rubs  and  scrapes  ;  
it  is 
now  a  little  over  6  feet  deep.  We  draw  6  feet  water.  Got  through 
before  bedtime  ;  and  I  went  to  sleep  while  repairs  were  doing  to  the 
wheels  broken  in  the  passage,  a  thing  of  course.  Borrowed  and  read 
a  Richmond  Whig  of  Dec.  9.  Lieutenant  Governor  (Wyndham  Robert- 
son's) message.  In  Portland  one  of  our  passengers  reports  that  he  saw 
just  now  a  young  man  (of  21)  named  Porter,  7-j-  feet  high,  spare  and 
weak,  very  good-natured.  Long  conversation  with  Mr.  Archer,  who  is 
in  bad  health.  His  proscription  by  the  dominant  party  among  his  con- 
stituents for a  generous  assertion  of  his  honest  opinions  (erroneous 
though  some  of  them  are),  and  still  more  his  bad  digestion  embitter  him 
transcendently  against  that  party.  Of  General  J.  he  speaks  with  pity, 
contempt,  and  animosity  so  mingled  as  to  produce  virulence  unique  in 
its  kind  and  extravagant  in  its  degree.  fc<  
Delirious  despot,"  "  insane 
dotard,"  &c,  are  specimens  of  the  epithets  applied.  Denies  him  talent? 
even  the  quality  of  knowing  mankind  well.  Says  his  success  is  due  to 
what  the  French  call  caractere,  decision  and  energy.  Audacity,  moral 
and  physical,  is  a  leading  ingredient.  Mr.  A.  doubts  of  Mr.  Jefferson. 
P.  B.  B.,  mind  dialectical,  prone  to  demonstrate  the  plainest  proposi- 
tions according  to  the  forms  of  logic,  like  Hudibras.  Contrast  of  Judge 
Marshall.  Mr.  Rives  more  statesmanlike  in  his  mind,  but  not  more  sin- 
cere.     Agreed   that  B.   is  entirely   sincere  in  his  opinions;  perfectly 
 - 330 - 
1892.]  A  JOURNEY   TO   THE   WEST  IN   1836.  291 
honest,  but  tremblingly  afraid  for  his  popularity.  Mr.  A.  talks  capitally  ; 
a  stenographer  might  confidently  put  down  every  word  he  utters  with 
the  certainty  of  making  sentence  after  sentence  neat,  correct,  forcible, 
often  elegant.     To  bed  at  11. 
Monday,  Dec.  19tk.  A  pleasant  and  warm  night's  rest.  The  steward 
had  given  me  a  second  mattress  and  a  third  blanket.  Found  that  we 
had  gone  but  20  miles  during  the  night.  Up  before  sun,  at  ringing 
steward's  bell  which  effectually  banishes  sleep.  Clean  towels,  a  thing 
contrary  to  all  my  steamboat  experience.  Breakfast.  Mr.  Key  and  our 
Huntress  adventures.  Long  conversation  again  with  Mr.  A.  Dr.  Chan- 
ning  on  Slavery  he  was  reading.  Admires  Dr.  C,  and  forgives  him 
his  fanaticism  because  it  is  so  sincere  and  comes  from  so  pure  and  great 
a  mind.  Thinks  Dr.  C.  only  needs  to  live  in  a  slave  country  to  see 
at  once  that  slavery  is  a  necessary  condition  of  human  things,  and  that 
it  is  that  form  of  existence  in  which  the  lowest  labouring  class  is  always 
happiest.  Deems  slavery  a  positive  good,  and  exclaims  with  contempt 
and  disgust  against  those  dreaming  bigots,  those  imbecile  visionaries, 
who  after  the  fervour  of  youth  is  past  continue  the  folly  of  hoping  for 
universal  liberty,  intelligence,  and  happiness.  He  would  not  respect  a 
young  man  who  had  not  those  dreams  ;  
but  he  who  cherishes  them  in 
mature  age  is  to  be  contemned  as  unteachable  by  fact  and  experience. 
Mr.  A.  satisfied  that  popular  government  cannot  last,  that  despotism,  or 
at  least  monarchy,  is  the  inevitable  political  lot  of  man.  Mr.  Jefferson 
again.  Demagoguism  and  its  influence.  Suppose  a  demagogue  (Benton 
for  instance)  were  pitted  against  a  General  Washington  in  an  electioneer- 
ing contest.  B.  would  say  to  the  populace,  —  "  Gentlemen,  you  are  the 
pure  fountain  of  all  power.  That  sovereignty,  which  in  other  coun- 
tries dwells  in  a  sultan  or  an  emperor,  in  this  happy  land  pertains  to  you. 
Office,  law,  constitution,  all  depend  upon  your  will;  office  is  and  ought 
to  be  given  or  taken  away,  laws  and  constitutions  ordained  or  altered,  at 
your  sovereign  pleasure.  And  you  are  as  wise  as  you  are  powerful. 
'Tis  fit  that  you  should  be,  what  you  are,  the  vicegerents  of  the  Al- 
mighty. Your  voice  is  his  voice.  The  office  I  seek,  if  conferred  tupon 
me,  shall  be  surrendered  at  your  command,  and  administered  while  I 
hold  it  according  to  your  wishes."  General  W.  would  say,  —  "  Gen- 
tlemen, I  
differ  widely  from  my  competitor  in  much  that  he  has  said. 
You  are,  indeed,  the  fountain  of  power  and  the  ultimate  framers  of  laws 
and  constitutions,  but  they  cannot  rightfully  bend  to  your  will,  unless  pur- 
suant to  
the  forms  which  are  in  them  prescribed.  Designed  to  guard  you 
and  your  children  against  your  own  and  their  own  caprices,  they  are 
binding  upon  you,  unless  you  amend  or  change  them  constitutionally. 
Your  voice  is  the  voice  of  God,  only  when  it  is  constitutionally  uttered  ; 
and  even  then  it  merits  that  name  too  often,  I  fear,  for  its  potency 
alone,  —  not  for  its  wisdom.     Your  instructions  when  regularly  given, 
 - 331 - 
292  MASSACHUSETTS   HISTORICAL   SOCIETY.  [Jan. 
I  shall  ever  obey,  unless  they  violate  the  constitution,  but  I  shall 
deem  myself  chosen  (if  you  do  choose  me  on  this  occasion)  to  watch 
over  your  interests,  much  more  than  servilely  to  consult  all  your 
wishes  ;  and  it  is  to  the  former  far  rather  than  to  the  latter  that  I  shall 
direct  my  vigilance  and  my  powers."  "  Can  there  be  a  doubt,"  says 
Mr.  A.,  "  that  Colonel  B.  would  carry  nine  out  of  ten  of  those  votes 
against  General  W.  ? "  John  Randolph  never  chose  a  friend  in  his 
life  from  elevated  motives.  Made  Benton  his  second  against  McDuffie 
from  a  grovelling  one.  Had  no  respect  for  B.  Mr.  A.  was  one  of  a 
very  few  who  knew  J.  R.  thoroughly.  Avarice  made  him  take  the 
Russian  embassy.  It  was  his  besetting  vice.  He  pined  to  visit  Eng- 
land, especially  at  free  cost  and  in  some  high  official  capacity.  He 
distinctly  had  permission  from  the  executive  to  stay  in  London  after 
a  short  residence  at  St.  Petersburg.  No  question  that  the  remem- 
brance of  
his  having  yielded  up  his  long  and  vaunted  character  for 
disinterestedness  haunted  him  like  a  spectre. 
Snack,  or  cold  collation,  furnished  to  passengers  at  11  J;  crackers, 
cold  bread,  butter,  cheese,  tongue,  dried  beef,  venison,  bacon,  ham, 
almonds,  raisins,  apples.  Then  dinner  at  \  before  3.  'T  was  too 
much.  Evening,  Captain  Newcomb,  late  of  United  States  army  (a 
passenger)  made  up  to  me  and  asked  if  I  was  related  to  Mr.  Minor 
(meaning  Charles)  late  of  the  army.  "Yes."  He  knew  C.  intimately, 
and  of  course  esteemed  him  highly  and  liked  him  well.  Wine  party  after 
dinner.  Mr.  Archer's  apology  for  not  asking  me  to  join,  badness  of 
the  wine.  More  of  John  Randolph.  His  unrivalled  oratory.  Mr. 
A.  deemed  him  a  great  consulter  of  stage  effect.  His  most  admired 
speeches  in  the  Virginia  Convention  shewed  it.  Mr.  Secretary  Cass, 
—  deceitful,  intriguing,  covetous.  Attorney-General  Butler,  —  Mr.  A. 
agrees  with  me  in  thinking  so  highly  of  him  as  even  to  consider  his 
attachment  to  Van  Buren  a  redeeming  point  in  the  latter's  character. 
Met  steamboats  Mississippi  and  George  Washington  going  upward. 
Bed  at  10 J, 
Tuesday,  Dec.  20th.  Up  at  7.  Shaved  in  a  dark  corner,  with 
some  help  from  a  mirror.  Mr.  A.'s  wonder  at  the  achievement.  "  You 
are  a  remarkable  man,  sir."  Took  care  not  to  let  him  know  that 
I  was  shaving  with  cold  water,  or  that  I  could,  and  often  did,  shave 
without  a  glass.  Breakfast,  good,  as  usual.  Conversation  with  a 
Kentucky  farmer,  on  hemp,  the  Kentucky  staple.  Snack  ;  
dinner. 
After  dinner  Mr.  A.  came  to  me,  and  insisted  on  my  sitting  down 
to  some  wine  (villainous  wine)  which  he  and  some  others  were  dis- 
cussing. Joined  them  for  their  talk's  sake,  and  sipped  for  apparent 
conformity.  Conversation  dull,  flagged  because  most  of  its  supporters 
were  accustomed  to  rely  upon  wine  to  stimulate  their  powers,  and 
this  now  failing  them  (by  its  vileness)  their  wings  flagged  of  course. 
 - 332 - 
1892.]  A  JOURNEY  TO   THE  WEST  IN   1836.  293 
The  day  rainy.  Towards  evening  some  snow,  and  a  change  of  wind 
to  N.  W.  It  then  grew  suddenly  cold.  Passed  Mt.  Vernon,  Indiana. 
A  large  distillery.  Curious  pump  wrought  by  steam.  A  clever  Lou- 
isiana engineer,  whose  awkward  gait  and  dress  had  struck  me  for  two 
days,  and  who  had  not  before  shewn  anything  of  the  talent  within 
him,  went  ashore  and  reported  a  remarkably  intelligible  account  of 
the  pump's  construction  and  modus  operandi.  A  common  forcing 
pump  raised  the  water  to  its  utmost  height  in  a  tube  to  a  vertical 
cylinder,  where  two  wheels,  with  broad-leafed  cogs  of  cycloidal  form 
and  playing  into  each  other,  passed  it  on  to  a  horizontal  tube  which 
conducted  it  where  it  was  wanted  for  the  distillery.  Steep  railway  for 
lading  and  unlading  boats.     Many  barrels  whiskey  taken  aboard. 
Much  conversation  with  Mr.  Archer  again.  Col.  Richard  M.  John- 
son the  chief  subject.  Mr.  Archer  agrees  with  others  whom  I  have 
heard  say  that  Colonel  J.  is  very  like  old  Mr.  W.  P.  of  Powhatan,  in 
person,  the  grade  of  his  intellect,  and  the  character  of  his  good  nature. 
It  was  wholly  impossible  that  he  could  write  the  Sunday  Mail  reports 
which  were  published  as  made  by  him.  A  Doctor  who  lives  in  Colonel 
J.'s  neighbourhood  sat  by  during  Mr.  A.'s  tirade  of  this  evening,  and 
seemed  abundantly  amused  at  it.  He  says  there  is  no  earthly  doubt  of 
the  truth  of  the  current  stories  touching  Colonel  J.'s  domestic  relations. 
The  Doctor  has  practised  in  his  family,  and  gave  us  many  corroborative 
circumstances.  We  lost  several  hours  at  the  distillery  taking  in  the 
whiskey,  and  by  various  other  stops.  I  and  several  others  who  intended 
to  land  at  Shawneetown,  wavered  when  we  found  that  the  N.  W.  wind 
was  making  the  cold  intense,  and  that  it  would  be  after  midnight  when 
we  should  arrive  there,  especially  as  the  captain  (willing,  perhaps,  to 
keep  us  longer  on  board)  warned  us  that  he  could  not  bring  his  boat 
within  a  |  of  a  mile  of  the  shore,  and  that  even  the  yawl  could  not 
land  us  nearer  than  \ a   mile  to  the  town,  on  the  solitary  beach.  The 
alternative  was  to  land  under  these  adverse  circumstances,  or  go  on  to 
the  mouth  of  the  Ohio,  and  there  in  a  miserable  inn  await  a  steamboat 
passing  up  to  St.  Louis,  whence  we  might  reach  the  interior  of  Illinois. 
The  latter  plan  was  likely  to  be  defeated  by  the  formation  of  ice 
which  would  stop  navigation  in  the  Mississippi.  We  went  to  bed  at 
11  J,  
desiring  to  be  waked  at  Shawaneetown,  when  we  should  land  or 
not,  as  our  feelings  might  then  prompt. 
Wednesday,  Dec.  21st.  Waked  at  2,  to  be  set  ashore  if  we  chose. 
Several  determined  to  land.  So  did  I ;  and  then  two  others  who  had 
left  it  to  me  to  decide  for  them.  These  were  Thompson,  a  Massachu- 
setts man  (from  Northampton),  now  of  Tremont,  Illinois,  and  Chapin 
from  near  Chicago.  Six  of  us  and  our  baggage  were  put  into  the 
yawl,  and  the  second  mate  with  two  stout  oarsmen  appointed  to  carry 
us  ashore,  about  \  
of  a  mile.     Wind  at  N.  W.,  very  keen  and  strong. 
 - 333 - 
29-i  MASSACHUSETTS   HISTORICAL   SOCIETY.  [Jan. 
Boat  deck,  steps,  gunwale,  yawl,  with  its  bottom  and  oars  all  full  of  ice. 
Immense  sheets  of  ice  too,  partly  fixed,  partly  floating,  between  us  and 
the  shore.  Pushed  off.  Driven  by  wind  slantingly  upward,  so  as  to  get 
among  the  ice,  which,  indeed,  at  any  rate  could  not  have  been  altogether 
avoided.  Great  difficulty  in  breaking  out  of  it  into  clear  water,  but  by 
pushing  against  with  poles,  and  plying  the  oars  vigorously,  we  at  length 
succeeded.  Never  before  did  I  hear  such  swearing  as  from  our  mate. 
The  pilot  in  the  back  at  Louisville  was  nothing  to  him.  The  men,  too, 
swore,  but  theirs  were  mere  "  sarsenett  oaths,"  mere  skimmed  milk,  to 
his.  It  seemed  to  increase  their  energy,  however,  and  after  tugging  for 
about  fifteen  minutes  they  landed  us  sure  enough  full  half  a  mile  from 
any  house.  Our  trunks  were  placed  on  the  strand  some  feet  above  the 
water,  but  below  the  high  bank  of  the  river,  while  we  hurried  in  the 
direction  shewn  us  as  that  of  the  town,  to  seek  fire  and  shelter  from 
the  biting  wind.  Nearly  the  whole  face  of  the  ground  seemed  ice.  At 
length  reached  a  shabby-looking  house,  with  a  tavern  sign  hanging 
before  its  door.  Entered  the  porch.  Stamped,  knocked,  kicked,  and 
called  to  those  within,  but  all  in  vain  for  at  least  twenty-five  minutes, 
when  a  young  man  opened  a  door  and  let  us  into  a  room  where,  close 
to  a  fire  consisting  of  one  nearly  consumed  log,  lay  a  dirty-looking 
mulatto  man.  Roused  him  with  difficulty,  and  bringing  in  some  wood 
and  chips  which  we  found  in  a  back  yard,  we  soon  made  a  good  fire. 
The  wood  was  thoroughly  wet,  too  ;  and  its  [cetera  desunt]. 
Mr.  George  B.  Chase  then  said  :  — 
Mr.  President,  —  At  our  last  meeting,  when  Copley's  por- 
trait of  
Paul  Revere  at  his  bench  was  the  subject  of  conver- 
sation, a  
remark  was  made  which  seemed  to  indicate  a  belief 
that  the  refusal  by  the  present  representatives  of  the  Revere 
family  of  Mr.  Goss's  request  for  permission  to  photograph 
Copley's  portrait  for  publication,  as  an  illustration  of  his  new 
Life  of  Paul  Revere,  might  be  due  to  motives  of  false  shame. 
I  should  not  now  recur  to  that  conversation  were  I  not  sure 
from  a  recent;  talk  I  had  with  a  member  of  that  family  that 
no  such  thought  or  motive  has  ever  governed  their  action  in 
refusing  permission,  as  in  the  recent  case  of  Mr.  Goss's  re- 
quest, to  
allow  a  copy  of  that  portrait  for  publication.  For 
while  Revere's  descendants  are  properly  proud  of  Copley's 
portrait  of  their  most  noted  ancestor,  they  are  governed  by 
the  wish  of  the  late  head  of  their  family,  as  expressed  before 
his  death,  which  was,  as  the  portrait  of  Paul  Revere  at  his 
 - 334 - 
1892.]  REMARKS  BY  MR.   GEORGE   B.    CHASE.  295 
bench  had  not  been  exhibited  publicly,  so  it  should  not  be 
hereafter,  but  that  it  should  continue  to  hang,  as  it  long  has 
hung,  upon  the  walls  of  one  of  the  principal  rooms  of  the 
family  residence,  where  the  members  of  the  family,  their 
friends  and  guests,  might  readily  see  it. 
The  motive  which  influenced  the  late  Mr.  Revere  to  this  de- 
cision is  
both  intelligible  and  respectable.  He  was  a  modest, 
retiring  man.  Publicity  or  distinction  on  account  of  his  fam- 
ily, or  the  exhibition  of  anything  relating  to  its  history,  was 
utterly  distasteful  to  him  ;  and  so  he  left  Copley's  portrait  of 
Paul  Revere  to  his  descendants,  to  be,  as  I  have  said,  neither 
exhibited  nor  concealed. 
The  death  of  Rev.  Dr.  Eben  Edwards  Beardsley,  a  Corre- 
sponding Member,  which  occurred  at  New  Haven,  Connec- 
ticut, Dec.  21,  1891,  was  announced. 
 - 335 - 
296  MASSACHUSETTS   HISTORICAL   SOCIETY.  [Feb. 
FEBRUARY  MEETING,    1892. 
A  stated  meeting  was  held  on  Thursday,  the  11th  instant, 
at  three  o'clock,  p.  m.  ;  the  President,  Dr.  George  E.  Ellis, 
in  the  chair. 
The  record  of  the  last  meeting  and  the  list  of  donors  to  the 
Library  during  the  last  month  were  read. 
The  President  announced  the  death,  on  the  18th  of  January, 
of  Benjamin  Scott,  Chamberlain  of  London,  who  was  elected 
a  Corresponding  Member  in  February,  1871. 
Communications  from  the  third  section  having  been  called 
for,  Mr.  R.  C.  Winthrop,  Jr.,  said  :  — 
I  have  a  few  words  to  say  about  a  matter  which  our  former 
President,  Mr.  Savage,  described,  in  his  Genealogical  Diction- 
ary, as "  unimportant,  but  curious."  About  ten  pages  of  the 
first  volume  of  that  work  are  devoted  to  the  enumeration  of 
persons  by  the  name  of  Adams  among  the  early  settlers  of 
New  England;  and  in  mentioning  one  Thomas  Adams,  about 
whom  little  is  known,  and  who  does  not  appear  to  have  been 
related  to  any  of  the  others,  Mr.  Savage  alludes  to  what  he 
styles  the  "  ridiculous  story  "  of  his  having,  been  mistaken,  at 
Stamford,  Connecticut,  in  1652,  for  no  less  a  personage  than 
his  Majesty  King  Charles  II.,  and  in  danger  of  being  sent 
prisoner  to  England,  but  for  the  intervention  of  Sir  Henry 
Moody  and  others  who  knew  the  exiled  monarch  by  sight. 
Mr.  Savage's  attention  had  been  directed  to  this  subject  by 
our  Corresponding  Member  Charles  J.  Hoadly,  LL.D.,  now 
Vice-President  of  the  Connecticut  Historical  Society,  who,  in 
editing  the  New  Haven  Colonial  Records,  had  found  in  them 
contemporary  mention  of  one  Thomas  Adams  "  marriner  (as 
hee  called  himselfe)  though  in  apparell  and  cariage  hee  acted 
a  part  as  if  hee  had  bine  the  King  of  Scots,  or  some  greate 
prince  (though  not  willing  to  be  knowne)  and  by  some  was 
called  King  Tom,"  and  was  affirmed  by  one  Robert  Bassett  to 
be  the  fugitive  King  of  England.1 
1  See  New  Haven  Col.  Rec.  vol.  ii.  p.  60,  and  N.  Y.  Col.  Doc.  vol.  iii.  p.  39. 
 - 336 - 
1892.]  REMARKS   BY   R.    C.    WINTHROP,    JR.  297 
We  all  know  that  after  the  battle  of  Worcester  Charles  II. 
had  experience  of  some  strange  hiding-places  ;  
but  it  could  not 
reasonably  have  occurred  to  him  to  cross  the  Atlantic  and 
select  a  Puritan  colony  as  a  place  of  refuge,  and  we  may  feel  a 
natural  curiosity  to  know  something  more  concerning  the  indi- 
vidual who  seems  to  have  been  willing  to  impersonate  him  in 
Connecticut.  Not  long  ago,  in  turning  over  some  miscella- 
neous Winthrop  papers  which  had  been  only  partially  exam- 
ined, I  
stumbled  on  an  isolated  letter  from  this  Thomas 
Adams,  dated  March  5,  1653-4,  from  a  place  the  precise  name 
of  which  I  am  not  quite  able  to  decipher,  but  which  I  think  is 
Munades  [Manhattan],  and  addressed  to  John  Winthrop,  Jr., 
then  at  Pequot.  In  it  he  explains  that  he  had  been  intrusted 
by  Sir  Henry  Moody  with  two  books  for  Winthrop  (books 
apparently  of  considerable  value,  as  he  was  charged  not  to  let 
them  out  of  his  own  possession),  and  that,  finding  it  impossible 
to  deliver  them  in  person  as  he  had  fully  intended,  he  now 
forwarded  them  by  one  whom  he  believed  to  be  a  trusty  mes- 
senger. The  indorsement  of  this  letter,  in  the  unmistakable 
handwriting  of  John  Winthrop,  Jr.,  is  simply  "King  Tom," 
thereby  showing  that  two  years  after  the  occurrences  at  Stam- 
ford Adams  was  still  familiarly  known  by  this  nickname. 
The  name  Thomas  Adams  certainly  suggests  an  Englishman  ; 
but  the  handwriting  of  this  letter  is  distinctly  continental, 
and,  I  think,  Dutch  ;  while  the  style  is  that  of  a  foreigner  who 
spoke  English  with  some  freedom,  yet  not  altogether  intelli- 
gibly. So  
far  as  I  am  aware,  this  is  the  only  letter  of  his  in 
existence  ;  and  I  conjecture  from  it  that  the  writer  was  of 
English  parentage  but  bred  in  Holland.  Had  he  been  merely 
a  vulgar  adventurer  or  a  crank,  it  does  not  seem  likely  that 
he  would  have  been  selected  by  Sir  Henry  Moody  to  take 
charge  of  a  parcel  of  rare  books,  as  Moody  was  an  influential 
person  on  Long  Island,  and  the  son  of  the  well-known 
Deborah,  Lady  Moody,  who  once  resided  in  Lynn.  I  think 
it  more  probable  that  Adams  was  an  educated  man,  who, 
either  as  a  joke  or  to  enhance  his  consequence,  availed  him- 
self of  an  accidental  resemblance  to  mystify  his  associates. 
Mr.  Savage  assumes  him  to  have  been  identical  with  the 
Thomas  Adams  who  took  the  oath  of  fidelity  at  New  Haven 
in  1657,  and  who  ten  years  afterward  married  Rebecca, 
daughter  of  William  Potter,  of  New  Haven  ;  
but  this  does  not 
38 
 - 337 - 
298  MASSACHUSETTS   HISTORICAL   SOCIETY.  [Feb. 
appear  to  be  proved,  and  I  shall  be  obliged  if  any  member  can 
throw  additional  light  on  the  subject. 
Mr.  Winthrop  then  offered  the  following  Resolution,  which 
he  accompanied  with  some  explanation,  and  which  was  passed 
without  debate  :  — 
Whereas  it  is  generally  understood  that  the  Council  has  re- 
cently had  under  consideration  the  subject  of  membership, 
and  has  adopted  in  principle  the  recommendations  of  a  Report 
signed  by  three  of  its  members,  dealing  at  some  length  with 
the  various  classes  of  persons  entitled  to  be  represented  in  the 
Society  and  the  best  policy  to  be  pursued  in  the  selection  of 
candidates  ;  and  whereas  this  subject  is  one  of  peculiar  interest 
to  the  Society  at  large,  in  view  of  the  discussions  which  have 
sometimes  arisen  concerning  the  relative  claims  of  different 
gentlemen  whose  names  appeared  in  the  Nomination-book  : 
therefore 
Resolved,  That  the  Council  be  requested  to  submit  to  the 
Society  at  its  next  meeting  any  conclusions  it  may  have  arrived 
at  upon  abstract  questions  of  membership,  together  with  any 
Reports  which  may  have  been  addressed  to  the  Council  upon 
the  subject,  so  far  as  the  same  may  properly  be  made  part  of 
our  printed  Proceedings. 
Mr.  Justin  Wlnsor  communicated,  the  following  paper, 
and  made  a  few  extemporaneous  remarks  by  way  of  intro- 
duction —: 
The  Results  in   Europe  of  Cartier's  Explorations,  1542-1603. 
The  results  of  Cartier's  explorations  came  slowly  to  the 
knowledge  of  contemporary  cartographers.  In  the  year  of 
Cartier's  return  from  his  second  voyage  (1536),  Alonso  de 
Chaves,  the  official  cosmographer  of  Spain,  made  a  plot  of  the 
North  American  coast.  Although  the  Spaniards  were  keep- 
ing close  watch  on  the  northern  explorations  of  their  rivals,  it 
is  apparent  that  Chaves  had  not  heard  of  Cartier's  movements. 
This  map  of  Chaves  is  not  preserved  ;  but  there  is  a  map 
by  Gutierrez  (1550),  known  to  us,  which  is  held  to  be  based 
on  Chaves.  This  Gutierrez  map  gives  no  trace  of  the  French 
voyages;  nor  does  Oviedo,  the  Spanish  historian,  who  wrote 
the  next  year  (1537)  with  Chaves's  map  before  him,  give  us 
 - 338 - 
1892.]  RESULTS   OF   CARTIER'S   EXPLORATIONS.  299 
any  ground  for  discrediting  the  map  of  Gutierrez  as  indicating 
the  features  of  that  by  Chaves.  The  next  year  (1538),  the 
rising  young  Flemish  map-maker,  Gerard  Mercator,  made  his 
earliest  map,  which  shows  that  no  tidings  of  the  Cartier  voy- 
ages had  yet  reached  the  Low  Countries.  He  did  not  even 
recognize  the  great  Square  Gulf,  which  had  appeared  in  the 
Ptolemy  of  1511,  as  premonitory  of  the  Gulf  which  Cartier  had 
circumnavigated,  though  three  years  later  Mercator  affords  a 
faint  suspicion  of  it  in  his  gores  of  1541. 
We  do  not  find  any  better  information  in  the  best  of  the 
contemporary  cosmographers.  Minister  in  Germany  (1540) 
widened  a  little  the  passage  which  severed  Newfoundland 
from  the  main,  and  so  did  the  Italian  Vopellio  ;  but  Ulpius, 
making  the  globe  at  Rome,  in  1542,  which  is  now  owned  by 
the  New  York  Historical  Society,  seems  not  to  have  been  even 
thus  imperfectly  informed.  The  French  globe-maker,  who 
not  far  from  the  same  time  made  the  sphere  preserved  at 
Nancy,  knew  only  enough  to  make  a  group  of  islands  beyond 
the  Newfoundland  banks. 
We  turn  to  something  more  intimately  connected  with  Car- 
tier's  own  work.  It  might  go  without  saying  that  Cartier 
would  plot  his  own  tracks  ;  but  we  have  no  written  evidence 
that  he  did,  other  than  a  letter  of  his  grand-nephew  fifty  years 
later,  who  says  that  he  himself  had  inherited  one  such  map. 
We  must  look  to  three  or  four  maps,  made  within  five  years  of 
Carrier's  last  voyage,  and  which  have  come  down  to  us,  to  find 
how  the  last  charts  of  Cartier  affected  cartographical  knowl- 
edge in  
certain  circles  in  France,  and  placed  the  geography  of 
the  St.  Lawrence  on  a  basis  which  was  not  improved  for  sixty 
years. 
Those  who  have  compared  the  early  maps  find  the  oldest 
cartographical  record  which  we  have  of  Carrier's  first  voyage 
(1534)  in  a  document  by  Jean  Rotz,  dated  eight  years  later, 
and  preserved  in  the  British  Museum.  Harrisse  thinks  that 
back  of  this  Rotz  map  there  is  another,  known  as  the  Harleyan 
mappemonde,  which  is  deposited  in  the  same  collection.  But 
the  draft  by  Rotz  is  the  better  known  of  the  two.  Its  designer 
is  held  to  be  a  Frenchman,  which  may  account  for  his  acquaint- 
ance with  Malouin  sources.  This  "  Boke  of  Idrography,"  as 
Rotz  calls  it,  contains  two  maps  which  interest  us.  One 
shows  the  Gulf  of  St.  Lawrence  and  the  opening  into  the  river, 
 - 339 - 
300  MASSACHUSETTS   HISTORICAL   SOCIETY.  [Feb. 
which  indicates  an  acquaintance  with  the  extent  of  Cartier's 
first  explorations  (1534) ,  
and  may  well  have  been  made  some 
years  before  the  date  of  the  manuscript  which  contains  it.  If 
its  outline  is  interpreted  correctly,  in  making  Anticosti  a  pe- 
ninsula connecting  with  the  southern. shore  of  the  St.  Lawrence 
River,  it  is  a  further  proof  that  a  foggy  distance  prevented  Car- 
tier  from  suspecting  that  he  was  crossing  the  main  channel  of 
the  St.  Lawrence,  when  he  sailed  from  Gaspe  to  the  Anticosti 
shores.  The  other  map  may  be  nearer  the  date  of  the  manu- 
script, for  
it  carries  the  river  much  farther  from  the  gulf,  and 
indicates  a  knowledge  of  Cartier's  second  voyage. 
Two  years  later  (1544)  there  was  the  first  sign  in  an  engraved 
map  of  Cartier's  success,  —  the  now  famous  Cabot  mappe- 
monde,  —  and  this  was  a  year  before  any  narrative  of  his  second 
voyage  was  printed.  As  but  a  single  copy  is  known  of  both 
map  and  narrative,  it  is  possible  that  the  publication  was  not 
welcome  to  the  government,  and  the  editions  of  the  two  were 
suppressed  as  far  as  could  be.  The  solitary  map  was  found  in 
Germany,  and  is  now  in  the  great  library  at  Paris.  The  sole 
copy  of  the  "  Bref  Recit,"  published  at  Paris  in  1545,  is  in  the 
British  Museum,  among  the  books  which  Thomas  Grenville 
collected. 
To  test  this  published  narrative,  scholars  have  had  recourse 
to  three  manuscripts,  preserved  in  the  Paris  Library  ;  varying 
somewhat,  and  giving  evidence  that  before  the  text  was 
printed,  it  had  circulated  in  hand-written  copies,  all  made  ap- 
parently by  
the  same  penman.  It  was  probably  from  the 
printed  text  that  both  Hakluyt  and  Ramusio  made  their  ver- 
sions to  
be  published   at  a  later  day. 
The  suppression,  if  there  was  such,  of  the  Cabot  map  is 
more  remarkable  ;  
for  this  Paris  copy  is  the  only  one  which  has 
come  down  to  us  out  of  several  editions  —  Harrisse  says  four 
■—  in  which  it  appeared.  This  multiplicity  of  issue  is  inferred 
from  the  description  of  copies  varying,  but  it  is  not  sure 
whether  these  changes  indicate  anything  more  than  tentative 
conditions  of  the  plates.  That  the  map  embodies  some  concep- 
tion of  
the  Cartier  explorations  is  incontestable.  It  gives  vaguely 
a  shape  to  the  gulf  conformable  to  Cartier's  track,  and  makes 
evident  the  course  of  the  great  tributary,  as  far  as  Cartier 
explored  it.  There  are  many  signs  in  this  part  of  the  map, 
however,  that  Cartier's  own  plot  could  not  have  been  used  at 
 - 340 - 
1892.]  KESTTLTS   OF   CARTTER's   EXPLORATIONS.  SOI 
first  hand,  and  the  map  in  its  confused  nomenclature  and  an- 
tiquated geographical  notions  throughout  indicates  that  the 
draft  was  made  by  a  'prentice  hand.  The  profession  of  one  of 
its  legends  —  of  late  critically  set  forth  from  the  study  of 
them  by  Dr.  Deane  in  our  Proceedings  (February,  1891)  — 
that  Sebastian  Cabot  was  its  author,  is  to  be  taken  with 
much  modification.  The  map  is  at  least  an  indication  that 
the  results  of  Carrier's  voyages  had  within  a  few  years  be- 
come in  a  certain  sense  public  property.  It  happens  that 
most  of  what  we  know  respecting  the  genesis  of  the  map  is 
from  English  sources,  or  sources  which  point  to  England  ; 
but  the  map,  it  seems  probable,  was  made  in  Flanders,  and 
not  in  France,  nor  in  Spain,  the  country  with  which  Cabot's 
official  standing  connected  him.  It  looks  very  much  like  a 
surreptitious  publication,  which,  to  avoid  the  scrutiny  of 
the  Spanish  Hydrographical  Office,  had  been  made  beyond 
their  reach,  while  an  anonymous  publication  of  it  protected 
the  irresponsible  maker  or  makers  from  official  annoyance. 
This  may  account  for  its  rarity,  and  perhaps  for  the  incomplete- 
ness of  
its  information. 
Better  information,  mixed  apparently  with  some  knowledge 
derived  from  the  Portuguese  voyages,  —  and  certainly  chroni- 
cling Portuguese  discoveries  in  other  parts  of  the  globe,  —  and 
so  presenting  some  but  not  great  differences,  appears  in  an- 
other map  of  about  the  same  date,  known  as  the  Nicholas  Val- 
lard  map.  When  Dr.  Kohl  brought  it  anew  to  the  attention 
of  scholars,  it  was  in  the  collection  of  Sir  Thomas  Phillipps  in 
England  ;  
but  there  is  reason  to  suppose  that  not  far  from  the 
date  of  its  making,  it  had  been  owned  in  Dieppe.  The  maker 
of  it  may  have  profited  directly  from  French  sources,  particu- 
larly in  
the  embellishment  upon  it,  which  seems  to  represent 
events  in  Roberval's  experiences. 
There  is,  likewise,  another  map  of  this  period  which  is  still 
more  intimately  connected  with  Carrier's  movements  ;  
indeed, 
it  can  hardly  have  been  made  independently  of  material  which 
he  furnished.  This  is  the  one  fashioned  by  the  order  of  the 
king  for  the  Dauphin's  instruction,  just  before  the  latter  suc- 
ceeded his  
father  as  Henry  II.  A  few  years  ago  Mr.  Major, 
of  the  British  Museum,  deciphered  a  legend  upon  it,  which 
showed  that  it  was  the  handiwork  of  Pierre  Desceliers,  a 
Dieppe  map-maker  then  working  at  Arques.    This  fact,  as  well 
 - 341 - 
302  MASSACHUSETTS    HISTORICAL   SOCIETY.  [Feb. 
as  its  official  character,  brings  it  close  to  the  prime  sources  ; 
and  the  map  may  even  identify  these  sources  in  the  represen- 
tations of  
Roberval  and  his  men,  as  they  are  grouped  on  the 
banks  of  the  St.  Lawrence.  I  am  informed  by  the  present 
owner,  the  Earl  of  Crawford  and  Balcarres,  that  an  attempt  at 
one  time  to  efface  the  legend  which  discloses  its  authorship 
has  obscured  but  has  not  destroyed  the  lettering.  The  map 
formerly  belonged  to  Jomard,  the  geographer. 
There  are  only  the  sketch  maps  of  Allefonsce  which  can  be 
traced  nearer  the  explorers  themselves  than  the  maps  already 
mentioned.  What  this  pilot  of  Roberval  drew  on  the  spot  we 
know  not,  but  he  attempted,  in  1545,  in  a  rude  way  to  draw 
upon  his  experiences  in  a  little  treatise.  This  manuscript  ."  
Cos- 
mographie,"  in  which  the  coast-lines  are  washed  in  at  the  top 
of  its  sheets,  is  preserved  in  the  National  Library  at  Paris. 
Several  modern  writers  have  used  them,  and  the  sketches  have 
been  more  than  once  copied.  Bibliographers  know  better,  how- 
ever, a  
little  chapbook,  which  ran  through  at  least  four  edi- 
tions in  
the  interval  before  new  interest  in  Canada  was  awak- 
ened by  
Champlain.  It  was  first  published  in  1559  after  the 
death  of  Allefonsce  ;  and  his  name,  which  appears  in  the  title, 
"  Les  voyages  avantureux  du  Capitaine  Alfonce  Saintongeois," 
was  apparently  made  prominent  to  help  the  sale  of  the  book, 
rather  than  to  indicate  the  intimate  connection  of  the  redoubt- 
able pilot  with  it.  His  manuscript  "  Cosmographie  "  had  been 
prepared  by  himself  for  the  royal  eye,  while  this  printed  pro- 
duction, which  was  issued  at  Poictiers,  was  dressed  up  by 
others  for  the  common  herd,  without  close  adherence  to  the 
manuscript.  A  popular  local  bard  sets  forth  pretty  much  all 
we  know  of  its  hero  in  some  preliminary  verses.  Like  all 
chapbooks,  the  little  volume  has  become  rare;  and  when  a 
copy  was  sold  in  Dr.  Court's  collection  (1885),  it  was  claimed 
that  only  three  copies  had  been  sold  isn  France  in  thirty  years. 
The  most  prolific  map-maker  of  this  period  in  Europe  was 
Baptista  Agnese  of  Venice.  He  had  a  deft  hand,  which  made 
his  portolanos  merchantable.  The  dexterity  of  their  drawing 
has  perhaps  enhanced  their  value  enough  to  prevent  careless 
use  of  them,  so  that  they  are  not  infrequent  in  Italian  libraries, 
and  will  be  found  in  almost  all  the  large  collections  in  Europe. 
One  certainly  has  found  its  way  to  America,  and  is  preserved 
in  the  Carter-Brown  Library  at  Providence.     Though  Agnese 
 - 342 - 
1892.]  RESULTS   OF   CARTIER'S   EXPLORATIONS.  303 
was  making  these  maps  for  over  a  quarter  of  a  century,  be- 
ginning about  the  time  of  Carrier's  activity,  he  never  much 
varied  from  the  conventional  types  which  successively  marked 
the  stages  of  geographical  knowledge.  '  He  has  hardly  a  map 
which  can  be  accounted  a  turning-point  in  American  geog- 
raphy, and  his  drafts  simply  follow  the  prevailing  notions. 
Thus  it  was  that  for  sixteen  years  after  Cartier  and  Roberval 
had  finished  their  work,  the  French  public  was  made  acquainted 
only  with  the  "  Bref  Recit  "  and  the  scant  narrative  to  which 
the  popularity  of  Allefonsce's  name  had  given  a  forced  currency. 
The  European  scholar  fared  better  than  the  provincial  French- 
man ;  
for  the  third  volume  of  the  "Raccolta"  of  Ramusio, 
which  was  devoted  wholly  to  American  discovery,  had  appeared 
in  Venice  in  1556.  It  is  a  chief  source  still  to  be  consulted 
for  the  earliest  explorations  of  the  St.  Lawrence  region.  It  is 
here  that  we  find  an  account  of  that  "  Gran  Capitano,"  iden- 
tified with  the  Dieppese  navigator,  Jean  Parmentier,  who 
visited  the  Baccalaos  region  in  the  early  years  of  that  cen- 
tury. Here,  too,  we  derive  a  scant  knowledge  of  Denj^s  and 
Aubert,  as  already  mentioned.  But  it  is  concerning  the  first 
voyage  of  Cartier  that  Ramusio  helps  us  most.  Where  he 
got  his  records  of  that  enterprise  of  1534,  it  is  not  easy  to  con- 
jecture, and  what  he  says  remained  for  a  long  while  the  sum  of 
all  that  was  known  concerning  it.  That  there  were  originally 
several  manuscript  texts  of  this  narrative,  varying  enough  in 
the  copying  to  make  differences  that  became  distinguishable, 
appears  to  be  certain  ;  but  it  is  not  so  easy  to  trace  them  dis- 
tinctively in the  various  printed  texts  which  have  been  pub- 
lished. The  text  in  Ramusio  was  without  doubt  used  by  John 
Florio  in  making  the  early  English  translation  (London,  1580), 
which  is  the  source  of  most  that  has  appeared  in  that  language 
respecting  the  voyage.  A  Norman  publisher  at  Rouen  printed 
a  French  text,  and  it  is  not  quite  certain  that  he  used  Ramusio. 
It  has  been  suspected  that,  in  pretending  to  make  a  transla- 
tion, this  editor  may  possibly  have  used  an  official  narrative, 
and  that  his  pretence  was  intended  to  conceal  a  surreptitious 
use  of  a  forbidden  paper.  When  Tross  reprinted  this  little 
book  (Paris,  1865),  he  could  find  only  one  copy,  and  that  was 
in  the  great  Paris  Library  ;  but  Harrisse  later  discovered  a 
copy  in  the  Ste.  Genevieve  Library.  The  fact  that  the  book 
has  nearly  passed  out  of  sight  might  indicate,  as  with  the 
 - 343 - 
304  MASSACHUSETTS   HISTORICAL   SOCIETY.  [Feb. 
"Bref  Recit,"  that  there  was  either  a  suppression  of  it  or  an 
inordinately  hard  use  of  it  by  readers.  Two  years  after  pub- 
lishing this  "  Disccurs  du  Voyage  "  (1867),  Tross  surprised 
the  critics  by  publishing  a  "  Relation  originale,"  as  if  it  were 
Carrier's  own  narrative  of  this  first  voyage.  The  arguments 
of  Michelant,  the  editor,  in  supporting  this  view  of  its  authen- 
ticity are  strong,  but  hardly  conclusive.  This  precious  manu- 
script was  discovered  in  the  Paris  Library  in  1867,  having 
previously  escaped  notice. 
In  the  year  before  the  appearance  of  the  American  section 
of  Ramusio,  and  probably  two  years  after  that  Italian  editor 
had  gathered  his  material,  the  Spanish  historian,  Gomara, 
showed  in  his  "  Historia  General  "  (Saragossa,  1555),  that 
intelligence  of  Carrier's  exploits  had  reached  him  in  some 
confused  form.  Indeed,  Gomara  is  rarely  critical  in  what  he 
offers.  It  will  be  remembered  that  Carrier  had  given  the 
name  of  "  Sainct  Laurens  "  to  a  small  estuary  in  the  gulf,  and 
it  has  never  been  quite  established  when  the  same  name 
gained  currency  as  the  appellation  of  the  gulf  itself,  and  of 
the  great  river  of  Canada.  Nevertheless  Gomara  writes  in 
1555,  or  perhaps  a  year  earlier,  that  "  a  great  river  called  San 
Lorenzo,  which  some  think  an  arm  of  the  sea  [i.  e.  leading  to 
Cathay]  has  been  sailed  up  for  two  hundred  leagues,  and  is 
called  by  some  the  Strait  of  the  Three  Brothers." 
We  may  consider  that  from  the  Rotz,  Vallard,  Cabot,  and 
Desceliers  maps,  pretty  nearly  all  the  ground  that  Carrier's 
own  maps  could  have  disclosed,  is  deducible  by  the  careful 
student,  and  that  a  large  part  of  our  history  of  this  obscure 
period  is  necessarily  derived  from  such  studies.  Now,  what 
was  the  effect  of  these  cartographical  records  upon  the  maps 
of  the  St.  Lawrence  for  the  rest  of  that  century  ? 
This  question  brings  us  to  consider  nearly  all  the  leading 
European  cartographers  of  the  sixteenth  century,  to  whatever 
maritime  peoples  they  belong.  The  most  famous  and  learned  of 
the  German  cosmographers,  Sebastian  Miinster,  contented  him- 
self with  insularizing  a  region  which  he  associated  with  the 
earlier  Cortereal.  Pedro  Medina,  the  leading  Spanish  writer  on 
seamanship,  in  his  "  Arte  de  Navegar,"  and  in  other  books,  for 
a  score  of  years  after  this,  used  a  map  on  which  there  was 
merely  a  conventional  gulf  and  river.     Baptista  Agnese  was 
 - 344 - 
1892.]  RESULTS   OF   CARTIER's  EXPLORATIONS.  305 
continuing  to  figure  the  coast  about  Newfoundland  in  absolute 
ignorance  of  the  French  discoveries  of  ten  years  before. 
We  are  in  1546  first  introduced  to  Giacomo  Gastaldi,  a 
Venetian  map-maker  of  reputation  throughout  Italy.  He 
gives  us  a  map  which  was  included  in  Lafreri's  atlas.  It  looks 
like  a  distinct  recognition  of  Cartier,  in  a  long  river  which 
flows  into  a  bay  behind  an  island.  This  is  the  more  remark- 
able because,  when  he  was  employed  two  years  later  to  make 
the  maps  for  the  Venetian  edition  of  Ptolemy  (1548),  he  re- 
verted to  the  old  pre-Cartier  notions  of  an  archipelago  and 
rudimentary  rivers. 
When  Ramusio  was  gathering  his  American  data  at  this 
time,  he  depended  on  an  old  friend,  Frascastoro,  to  supply 
the  illustrative  maps.  This  gentleman,  now  in  advanced 
years,  was  living  on  his  estate  near  Verona,  and  in  correspond- 
ence with  geographical  students  throughout  Europe.  Oviedo 
had  sent  some  navigator's  charts  to  him  from  Spain,  and 
Ramusio  tells  us  that  similar  information  had  come  to  him 
from  France  relative  to  the  discoveries  in  New  France. 
These  charts,  placed  by  Frascastoro  in  Ramusio's  hands,  were 
by  this  editor  committed  to  Gastaldi.  The  result  was  the 
general  map  of  America  which  appears  in  the  third  volume  of 
the  "  Raccolta."  This  map  is  singularly  inexpressive  for  the 
Baccalaos  region.  Something  more  definite  is  revealed  in  an- 
other map,  more  confined  in  its  range.  A  study  of  this  last  map 
makes  one  feel  as  if  the  rudimentary  rivers  of  the  Ptolemy 
map  (1548)  had  suggested  a  network  of  rivers,  stretching 
inland.  It  has  one  feature  in  the  shoals  about  Sable  Island 
so  peculiar  and  so  closely  resembling  that  feature  in  Rotz's 
map,  that  Gastaldi  must  have  worked  with  that  map  before 
him,  or  he  must  have  used  the  sources  of  that  map.  With  this 
exception  there  is  absolutely  nothing  in  the  map  showing  any 
connection  with  the  cartography  of  the  Cartier-Roberval  ex- 
pedition. These  features  stand,  in  fact,  for  earlier  notions, 
and  are  made  to  illustrate  the  narrative  of  the  "  Gran 
Capitano." 
There  is  a  Portuguese  map  by  Johannes  Freire,  which  must 
have  been  based  on  Cartier's  second  voyage,  for  it  leaves  unde- 
veloped the  
west  coast  of  Newfoundland,  which  Cartier  followed 
in  1534.  Another  Portuguese  map,  which  at  one  time  was  owned 
by  Jomarcl,  shows  acquaintance  with  both  the  first  and  second 
39 
 - 345 - 
306  MASSACHUSETTS   HISTORICAL   SOCIETY.  [Feb. 
voyages  of  Cartier,  as  does  the  Portuguese  atlas,  with  French 
leanings,  which  is  preserved  in  the  Archives  of  the  Marine  at 
Paris,  and  is  ascribed  to  Guillaume  le  Testu.  A  popular  map 
by  Bellero,  used  in  various  Antwerp  publications  of  this  period, 
utterly  ignores  the  French  discoveries. 
The  map  of  Homem  in  1558  is  an  interesting  one.  It  is  in 
an  atlas  of  this  Portuguese  hydrographer,  preserved  in  the 
British  Museum.  It  is  strongly  indicative  of  independent 
knowledge,  but  whence  it  came  is  not  clear.  He  worked  in 
Venice,  a  centre  of  such  knowledge  at  this  time  ;  and  Homem's 
map  is  a  proof  of  the  way  in  which  nautical  intelligence  failed 
to  establish  itself  in  the  Atlantic  seaports,  but  rather  found 
recognition  for  the  benefit  of  later  scholars  in  this  Adriatic 
centre.  It  is  in  this  map,  for  instance,  that  we  get  the  earliest 
recognizable  plotting  of  the  Bay  of  Fundy.  But  with  all  his 
alertness,  the  material  which  Ramusio  had  already  used  re- 
specting Cartier's  first  voyage  seems  to  have  escaped  him,  or 
perhaps  Homem  failed  to  understand  that  navigator's  track 
where  it  revealed  the  inside  coast  of  Newfoundland.  What 
he  found  in  any  of  the  accounts  of  the  Cartier  voyages  to 
warrant  his  making  the  north  bank  of  the  St.  Lawrence  an 
archipelago  skirting  the  Arctic  Sea,  is  hard  to  say  ;  
but  Homem 
is  not  the  only  one  who  developed  this  notion.  We  have  seen 
that  Allefonsce  believed  that  the  Saguenay  conducted  to  such 
a  sea,  and  there  are  other  features  of  that  pilot's  sketches 
which  are  consonant  with  such  a  view  ;  while  a  network  of 
straits  and  channels  pervading  this  Canadian  region  is  a  fea- 
ture of  some  engraved  maps  at  a  considerably  later  day. 
Homem  living  in  Venice  most  probably  was  in  consultation 
with  Ramusio,  and  may  have  had  access  to  the  store  of  maps 
which  Frascastoro  submitted  to  Gastaldi.  Indeed  Ramusio 
intimates,  in  the  introduction  to  his  third  volume,  that  this 
Canadian  region  may  yet  be  found  to  be  cut  up  into  islands, 
and  he  says  that  the  reports  of  Cartier  had  left  this  uncertainty 
in  his  mind.  The  stories  which  Cartier  had  heard  of  great 
waters  lying  beyond  the  points  he  had  reached,  had  doubtless 
something  to  do  with  these  fancies  of  the  map-makers. 
When  the  learned  Italian  Ruscelli  printed  his  translation  of 
Ptolemy  at  Venice  (1561),  he  added  his  own  maps,  for  he  was 
a  professional  cartographer.  He  also  apparently  profited  by 
Ramusio's  introduction  to  the  collection  of  Frascastoro  ;  
for  the 
 - 346 - 
1892.]  RESULTS   OF   CARTIER'S   EXPLORATIONS.  307 
map  which  he  gave  of  "  Tierra  nueva  "  reverted  to  the  same 
material  of  the  pre-Cartier  period  which  had  been  used  by 
Gastaldi,  showing  that  he  either  was  ignorant  of  the  claims  of 
Cartier's  discoveries  or  that  he  rejected  them.  Ruscelli  clung 
to  this  belief  pertinaciously,  and  never  varied  his  map  in  suc- 
cessive editions  for  a  dozen  years  ;  and  during  this  interval 
Agnese   (1564)  and  Porcacchi  (1572)  copied  him. 
We  have  two  maps  in  1566  in  which  the  Cartier  voyages 
are  recognized,  but  in  quite  different  ways.  The  map  of 
Nicolas  des  Liens  of  Dieppe  was  acquired  by  the  great  library 
of  Paris  in  1857,  and  the  visitor  there  to-day  can  see  it  under 
glass  in  the  geographical  department.  It  is  very  pronounced 
in  the  record  of  Cartier  ; for  his  name  is  displayed  along  the 
shore  of  a  broad  sound,  which  is  made  to  do  duty  for  the  St. 
Lawrence.  The  other  is  the  map  of  Zaltieri,  with  an  inscrip- 
tion, in which  the  author  claims  to  have  received  late  informa- 
tion from  the  French.  In  this  map  the  St.  Lawrence  is  merely 
a  long  waving  line,  and  the  river  is  made  to  flow  on  each  side 
of  a  large  island  into  a  bay  studded  with  islands. 
Three  or  four  years  later  we  come  to  the  crowning  work  of 
Gerard  Mercator  in  his  great  planisphere  of  1569  ;  and  a  year 
later  to  the  atlas  of  the  famous  Flemish  geographer  who  did 
so  much  to  revolutionize  cartography,  —  Abraham  Ortelius. 
The  great  bay  has  now  become,  with  Mercator,  the  Gulf  of  St. 
Lawrence  (Sinus  Laurentii);  but  the  main  river  is  left  without 
a  name,  and  is  carried  far  west  beyond  Hochelaga  (Montreal) 
to  a  water-shed,  which  separates  the  great  interior  valley  of 
the  Continent  from  the  Pacific  slope.  Here  was  what  no  one 
had  before  attempted  in  interpretation  of  the  vague  stories 
which  Cartier  had  heard  from  the  Indians.  Mercator  makes 
what  is  apparently  the  Ottawa  open  a  water-way,  as  Cartier 
could  have  fancied  it,  when  he  gazed  from  the  summit  of 
Mont  Royale.  This  passage  carried  the  imagination  into  the 
great  country  of  the  Saguenay,  which  the  Indians  told  of,  as 
bounding  on  a  large  body  of  fresh  water.  It  seems  easy  to 
suppose  that  this  was  an  interpretation  of  that  route  which  in 
the  next  generation  conducted  many  a  Jesuit  to  the  Georgian 
Bay,  and  so  developed  the  upper  lakes  long  before  the  shores 
of  Lake  Erie  were  comprehended.  Not  one  of  the  earlier 
maps  had  divined  this  possible  solution  of  Cartier's  problem  ; 
and  Mercator  did  it,  so  far  as  we  can  now  see,  with  nothing  to 
 - 347 - 
308  MASSACHUSETTS   HISTORICAL   SOCIETY.  [Feb. 
aid  him  but  a  study  of  Carrier's  narrative,  or  possibly  of  Car- 
tier's  maps  or  data  copied  from  them.  It  was  one  of  those 
feats  of  prescience  through  comparative  studies  which  put 
that  Flemish  geographer  at  the  head  of  his  profession.  By  a 
similar  insight  he  was  the  first  to  map  out  a  great  interior 
valley  to  the  continent,  separated  from  the  Atlantic  slope  by 
a  mountainous  range  that  could  well  stand  for  the  Alleghanies. 
Dr.  Kohl  suggests  that  Mercator  might  have  surmised  this 
eastern  water-shed  of  the  great  interior  valley,  by  studying 
the  reports  of  De  Soto  in  his  passage  to  the  Mississippi,  during 
the  very  year  when  Cartier  and  Roberval  were  developing  the 
great  northern  valley.  There  was  yet  no  conception  of  the 
way  in  which  these  two  great  valleys  so  nearly  touched  at  va- 
rious points  that  the  larger  was  eventually  to  be  entered  from 
the  lesser. 
Before  Mercator's  death  (1594)  he  felt  satisfied  that  the 
great  mass  of  fresh  water,  to  which  the  way  by  the  Ottawa 
pointed,  connected  with  the  Arctic  seas.  This  he  made  evi- 
dent by  
his  globe-map  of  1587.  Earlier,  in  1570,  he  had  con- 
veniently hidden  the  uncertainty  by  partly  covering  the  limits 
of  such  water  by  a  vignette.  Hakluyt  in  the  same  year  (1587) 
thought  it  best  to  leave  undefined  the  connections  of  such  a 
fresh-water  sea.  The  map-makers  struggled  for  many  years 
over  this  uncertain  northern  lake,  which  Mercator  had  been 
the  first  to  suggest  from  Carrier's  data.  Ortelius  also  (1570, 
1575,  etc.)  was  induced  to  doubt  the  fresh  character  of  this 
sea,  and  made  it  a  mere  gulf  of  the  Arctic  Ocean,  stretched 
toward  the  south  In  this  he  was  followed  by  Popelliniere 
(1582),  Gallasus  (1585),  Minister  (1595),  Linschoten  (1598), 
Botero  (1603),  and  others.  It  is  fair  to  observe,  however, 
that  Ortelius  in  one  of  his  maps  (1575)  has  shunned  the  con- 
clusion, and  Metellus  (1600)  was  similarly  cautious  when  he 
used  the  customary  vignette  to  cover  what  was  doubtful. 
There  was  at  the  same  time  no  lack  of  believers  in  the  fresh- 
water theory,  as  is  apparent  in  the  map  of  Judaeis  (1593), 
DeBry  (1596),  Wytfliet  (1597),  and  Quadus  (1600),  not  to 
name  others.  These  theorizers,  while  they  connected  it  with 
a  salt  northern  sea,  made  current  for  a  while  the  name  of  Lake 
Conibas,  as  applied  to  the  fresh-water  basin.  This  body  of 
water  seemed  in  still  later  maps  after  Hudson's  time  to  shift 
its  position,  and  was  merged  in  the  great  bay  discovered  by 
 - 348 - 
1892.]  KESULTS   OF   CARTIER'S   EXPLORATIONS.  309 
that  navigator.  It  was  not  till  a  suggestion  appeared  in  one 
of  the  maps  of  the  Arnheim  Ptolemy  of  1597,  made  more 
emphatic  by  Molineaux  in  1600,  that  this  flitting  interior  sea 
was  made  to  be  the  source  of  the  St.  Lawrence,  while  it  was 
at  the  same  time  supposed  to  have  some  outlet  in  the  Arctic 
Ocean.  The  great  interior  lakes  were  then  foreshadowed  in 
the  "  Lacke  of  Tadenac,  the  bounds  whereof  are  unknown," 
as  Molineaux's  legend  reads. 
The  English  indeed  had  become  active  in  this  geographical 
quest  very  shortly  after  Mercator  and  Ortelius  had  well  es- 
tablished their  theories  in  the  public  mind.  Sir  Humphrey 
Gilbert  had  not  indeed  penetrated  this  region  ; but  when  he 
published  his  map  in  1576  he  had  helped  to  popularize  a  be- 
lief in a  multitudinous  gathering  of  islands  in  what  was  now 
called  the  land  of  Canada.  Frobisher's  explorations  were  far- 
ther to the  north,  and  his  map  (1578)  professed  that  in  these 
higher  latitudes  there  was  a'  way  through  the  continent. 
Hakluyt,  in  his  "  Westerne  Planting,"  tells  us  that  the  bruit  of 
Frobisher's  voyage  had  reached  Ortelius,  and  had  induced  that 
geographer  to  come  to  England  in  1577,  "  to  prye  and  looke 
into  the  secretes  of  Frobisher's  Voyadge."  Hakluyt  further 
says  that  this  "  greate  geographer  "  told  him  at  this  time 
"  that  if  the  warres  of  Flaunders  had  not  bene,  they  of  the 
Lowe  Countries  had  meant  to  have  discovered  those  partes  of 
America  and  the  northweste  straite  before  this  tyme."  Hak- 
luyt had  it  much  at  heart  to  invigorate  an  English  spirit  of 
discovery,  and  the  treatise  just  quoted  was  written  for  that 
purpose.  "  Yf  wee  doe  procrastinate  the  plan  tinge,"  he  says, 
"  the  Frenche,  the  Normans,  the  Brytons  or  the  Duche  or 
some  other  nation  will  not  onely  prevente  us  of  the  mightie 
Baye  of  St.  Lawrence,  where  they  have  gotten  the  starte 
of  us  already,  thoughe  wee  had  the  same  revealed  to  us 
by  bookes  published  and  printed  in  Englishe  before  them." 
It  is  not  easy  to  satisfy  one's  self  as  to  what  Hakluyt  refers, 
when  he  implies  that  previous  to  Cartier's  voyage  there  had 
been  English  books  making  reference  to  the  St.  Lawrence 
Gulf.  Modern  investigators  have  indeed  in  English  books 
found  only  the  scantiest  mention  of  American  explorations 
before  Eden  printed  his  translation  of  M mister  in  1553, 
nearly  twenty  years  after  Cartier's  first  voyage.  The  late 
Dr.  Charles  Deane  in  commenting  on  Hakluyt's  words  could 
 - 349 - 
BIO  MASSACHUSETTS   HISTORICAL   SOCIETY.  [Feb. 
give  no  satisfactory  explanation  of  what   seems  to  be  their 
plain  meaning. 
The  year  before  Hakluyt  wrote  this  sentence  he  had  given 
up  an  intention  of  joining  in  Gilbert's  last  expedition,  and 
had  gone  to  Paris  (1583)  as  chaplain  to  Sir  Edward  Staf- 
ford. While  in  that  city  we  find  him  busy  with  "  diligent 
inquiries  of  such  things  as  may  yeeld  any  light  unto  our 
westerne  discoverie,"  making  to  this  end  such  investigations 
as  he  could  respecting  current  and  contemplated  movements 
of  the  Spanish  and  French.  In  this  same  essay  on  "  Westerne 
Planting  "  Hakluyt  drew  attention  to  what  he  understood 
Cartier  to  say  of  a  river  that  can  be  followed  for  three 
months  "  south warde  from  Hochelaga."  Whether  this  refers 
to  some  Indian  story  of  a  way  by  Lake  Champlain  and  the 
Hudson,  or  to  the  longer  route  from  the  Iroquois  country 
to  the  Ohio  and  Mississippi,  may  be  a  question  ;  
if  indeed 
it  may  not  mean  that  the  St.  Lawrence  itself  bent  towards 
the  south  and  found  its  rise  in  a  warmer  clime,  as  the 
cartographers  who  were  contemporaries  of  Hakluyt  made 
it.  Hakluyt  further  translates  what  Cartier  makes  Donna- 
cona  and  other  Indians  say  of  these  distant  parts  where 
the  people  are  u  clad  with  clothes  as  wee  [the  French]  are, 
very  honest,  and  many  inhabited  townes,  and  that  they  had 
greate  store  of  golde  and  redde  copper  ;  and  that  within 
the  land  beyonde  the  said  firste  ryver  unto  Hochelaga  and 
Saguynay,  ys  an  iland  envyroned  rounde  aboute  with  that 
and  other  ryvers,  and  that  there  is  a  sea  of  freshe  water 
founde,  as  they  have  hearde  say  of  those  of  Saguenay,  there 
was  never  man  hearde  of,  that  founde  vnto  the  begynnynge 
and  ende  thereof."  Here  is  the  warrant  that  Mercator  and  his 
followers  found  for  their  sea  of  sweet  water.  Hakluyt  adds  : 
"  In  the  Frenche  originall,  which  I  sawe  in  the  Kinges  library 
at  Paris,  yt  is  further  put  downe,  that  Donnacona,  the  Kinge 
of  Canada,  in  his  barke  had  traueled  to  that  contrie  where 
cynamon  and  cloves  are  had."  Hakluyt,  with  the  tendency  of 
his  age,  could  not  help  associating  this  prolonged  passage  with 
a  new  way  to  Cathay,  and  he  cites  in  support  u  the  judg- 
mente  of  Gerardus  Mercator,  that  excellent  geographer,  in  a 
letter  of  his,"  which  his  son  had  shown  to  Hakluyt,  saying, 
tw  
There  is  no  doubte  but  there  is  a  streighte  and  shorte 
waye  open  unto  the  west,  even  to  Cathaio."     Hakluyt  then 
 - 350 - 
1892.]  RESULTS   OF   CARTIER's   EXPLORATIONS.  311 
closes  his  list  of  reasons  for  believing  in  this  ultimate  pas- 
sage by  
adding,  in  the  words  of  Ramusio,  that  "  if  the 
Frenchmen  in  this  their  Nova  Francia  woulde  have  dis- 
covered upp  farther  into  the  lande  towardes  the  west 
northwest  partes,  they  shoulde  have  founde  the  sea  and 
have  sailed  to  Cathaio." 
Before  Hakluyt  published  any  map  of  his  own,  there  were 
two  English  maps  which  became  prominent.  In  1580  Dr. 
John  Dee  presented  to  Queen  Elizabeth  a  map  which  is 
preserved  in  the  British  Museum.  It  has  nothing  to  dis- 
tinguish it  
from  the  other  maps  of  the  time,  which  show  a 
St.  Lawrence  River  greatly  prolonged.  The  second  map  was 
far  more  distinctive  and  more  speculative.  Ruscelli  in  1561 
and  Martines  in  1578  had  represented  the  country  south  of 
the  Lower  St.  Lawrence  as  an  island,  with  a  channel  on 
the  west  of  it,  connecting  the  Atlantic  with  the  great  river 
of  Canada.  This  view  was  embodied  by  Master  Michael 
Lok  in  this  other  map,  in  union  with  other  prevalent  notions 
already  mentioned,  of  a  neighboring  archipelago  between 
the  St.  Lawrence  and  the  Arctic  waters.  In  this  way  Lok 
made  the  great  river  rather  an  ocean  inlet  than  an  affluent 
of  the  gulf.  Hakluyt  adopted  this  map  in  his  little  "  Divers 
Voyages  "  (1582)  to  illustrate  an  account  of  the  voyage  of 
Verrazano,  and  curiously  did  so,  because  there  is  no  trace 
of  Verrazano  in  the  map  except  the  great  western  sea,  which 
had  long  passed  into  oblivion  with  other  cartographers. 
When  Hakluyt  again  came  before  the  public  in  an  edition 
of  the  eight  decades  of  Peter  Martyr's  "  De  orbe  novo,"  which 
he  printed  at  Paris  in  1587,  he  added  a  map  bearing  the  initials 
"  F.  G."  This  map  may  be  supposed  to  embody  the  conclusions 
which  Hakluyt  had  reached  after  his  years  of  collecting  mate- 
rial. He  had,  as  we  have  seen,  already  reviewed  the  field  in 
his  "  Westerne  Planting,"  where  he  had  adopted  the  Mercator 
theory  of  the  access  by  the  Ottawa  to  the  great  fresh- water 
lake  of  the  Indian  tales. 
Jacques  Noel,  a  grand-nephew  of  Cartier,  writing  from  St. 
Malo  in  1587,  refers  to  this  F.  G.  map  of  Hakluyt,  as  putting 
down  "  the  great  lake  "  of  Canada  much  too  far  to  the  north 
to  be  in  accordance  with  one  of  Carrier's  maps  which  he  pro- 
fessed to  
have.     This  Noel  had  been  in  the  country,  and  re- 
 - 351 - 
312  MASSACHUSETTS   HISTORICAL   SOCIETY.  [Feb. 
ported  the  Indians  as  saying  that  the  great  lake  was  ten  days 
above  the  rapids  (near  Montreal).  He  had  been  at  the  rapids, 
and  reported  them  to  be  in  44°  north  latitude. 
In  1590  Hakluyt  was  asking  Ortelius,  through  a  relative  of 
the  Antwerp  geographer  then  living  in  London,  to  publish  a 
map  of  the  region  north  of  Mexico  and  towards  the  Arctic 
seas.  Ortelius  signified  his  willingness  to  do  so,  if  Hakluyt 
would  furnish  the  data.  In  the  same  year  the  English  geo- 
grapher wrote  to  Ortelius  at  Antwerp,  urging  him,  if  he  made 
a  new  map,  to  insert  "  the  strait  of  the  Three  Brothers  in  its 
proper  place,  as  there  is  still  hope  of  discovering  it  some  day, 
and  we  may  by  placing  it  in  the  map  remove  the  error  of  those 
cosmographers  who  do  not  indicate  it."  It  is  apparent,  by 
Hakluyt's  accompanying  drawing,  that  he  considered  the  "  Fre- 
tum  trium  fratrum  "  to  be  in  latitude  70°  north. 
There  was  a  temptation  to  the  geographer  to  give  a  striking 
character  to  the  reports  or  plots  of  returned  navigators.  Mer- 
cator  compliments  Ortelius  on  his  soberness  in  using  such  plots, 
and  complains  that  geographical  truth  is  much  corrupted  by 
map-makers,  and  that  those  of  Italy  are  specially  bad. 
The  maps  that  succeeded,  down  to  the  time  when  Cham- 
plain  made  a  new  geography  for  the  valley  of  the  St.  Lawrence, 
added  little  to  the  conceptions  already  mastered  by  the  chief 
cartographers.  The  idea  of  the  first  explorers  that  America 
was  but  the  eastern  limits  of  Asia  may  be  said  to  have  van- 
ished at  
the  same  time  ;  
for  the  map  of  Myiitius  of  near  this 
date  (1587,  1590)  is  perhaps  the  last  of  the  maps  to  hold  to 
the  belief. 
While  all  this  speculative  geography  was  forming  and  disap- 
pearing with  an  obvious  tendency  to  a  true  conception  of  the 
physical  realities  of  the  problem,  there  was  scarcely  any  at- 
tempt made  to  help  solve  the  question  by  exploration.  There 
was  indeed  a  continuance  of  the  fishing  voyages  of  the  Nor- 
mans and  Bretons  to  the  banks,  and  the  fishermen  ran  into  the 
inlets  near  the  Gulf  to  dry  their  fish  and  barter  trinkets  with 
the  natives  for  walrus  tusks  ;  
but  we  find  no  record  of  any  one 
turning  the  point  of  Gaspe  and  going  up  the  river.  There  was 
at  the  same  time  no  official  patronage  of  exploration.  The 
politics  of  France  were  far  too  unquiet.  Henry  II.  had  as 
much  as  he  could  do  to  maintain  his  struggles  with  Charles  V. 
 - 352 - 
1892.]  RESULTS   OF   CARTIER's   EXPLORATIONS.  313 
and  Philip  II.  St.  Quentin  and  Gravelines  carried  French 
chivalry  down  to  the  dust.  The  persecution  of  the  Protes- 
tants in  
the  brief  reign  of  Francis  II.,  the  machinations  of 
Catharine  de'  Medici  and  the  supremacy  of  the  Guises  kept 
attention  too  constantly  upon  domestic  hazards  to  permit  the 
government  to  glance  across  the  sea.  All  efforts  under 
Charles  IX.  to  secure  internal  peace  were  but  transient. 
Every  interval  of  truce  between  the  rival  religions  only  gave 
opportunities  for  new  conspiracies.  The  baleful  night  of  St. 
Bartholomew  saw  thirty  thousand  Huguenots  plunged  into 
agony  and  death.  The  wars  of  the  League  which  followed 
were  but  a  prolonged  combat  for  Huguenot  existence.  Henry 
III.  during  fifteen  years  of  blood  played  fast  and  loose  with 
both  sides.  Henry  IV.  fought  at  Arques  and  Ivry  to  preserve 
his  crown,  and  abjured  his  faith  in  the  end  as  a  better  policy 
to  the  same  end.  At  last  these  tumultuous  years  yielded  to 
the  promulgation  of  the  famous  edict  at  Nantes  (April  15, 
1598),  and  in  the  rest  which  came  later  the  times  grew  ripe 
for  new  enterprises  beyond  the  sea. 
We  have  seen  that  it  was  to  the  labors  of  Hakluyt  and 
Ramusio  during  these  sixty  years  that  we  owe  a  large  part  of 
the  current  knowledge  of  what  were  then  the  last  official  ex- 
peditions to  
Canada.  That  private  enterprise  did  not  cease  to 
connect  the  French  ports  with  the  fishery  and  trade  of  the 
gulf  and  its  neighboring  ports  is  indeed  certain,  though  Gar- 
neau  speaks  of  this  interval  as  that  of  a  temporary  abandon- 
ment of  
Canada.  Gosselin  and  other  later  investigators  have 
found  entries  made  of  numerous  local  outfits  for  voyages  from 
Honfleur  and  other  harbors.  Such  mariners  never,  however,  so 
far  as  we  know,  contemplated  the  making  of  discoveries.  Old 
fishermen  are  noted  as  having  grown  gray  in  forty  years'  ser- 
vice on  the  coast  ;  and  there  is  reason  to  believe  that  during 
some  seasons  as  many  as  three  or  four  hundred  fishing- crafts 
may  have  dipped  to  their  anchors  hereabouts,  and  half  of  them 
French.  Some  of  them  added  the  pursuit  of  trade,  and 
chased  the  walrus.  Breton  babies  grew  to  know  the  cunning 
skill  which  in  leisure  hours  was  bestowed  by  these  mariners 
on  the  ivory  trifles  which  amused  their  households.  Norman 
maidens  were  decked  with  the  fur  which  their  brothers  had 
secured  from  the  Esquimaux.  Parkman  found,  in  a  letter  of 
Menendez  to  Philip  of  Spain,  that  from  as  far  south  as  the 
40 
 - 353 - 
314  MASSACHUSETTS   HISTORICAL   SOCIETY.  [Feb. 
Potomac  Indian  canoes  crawled  northward  along  the  coast, 
till  they  found  Frenchmen  in  the  Newfoundland  waters  to 
buy  their  peltries.  Breard  has  of  late,  in  his  "Marine  Nor- 
mande,"  thrown  considerable  light  upon  these  fishing  and 
trading  voyagers,  but  there  is  no  evidence  of  their  passing  into 
the  great  river. 
Once,  indeed,  it  seemed  as  if  the  French  monarch,  Avho  had 
occasionally  sent  an  armed  vessel  to  protect  his  subjects  in 
this  region  against  the  English,  Spanish,  and  Portuguese, 
awoke  to  the  opportunities  that  were  passing  ;  and  in  1577  he 
commissioned  Troilus  du  Mesgonez,  Marquis  de  la  Roche,  to 
lead  a  colony  to  Canada,  and  the  project  commanded  the  con- 
fidence of  
the  merchants  of  Rouen,  Caen,  and  Lisieux.  Cap- 
tain J.  
Carleill,  writing  in  1583,  in  his  "Entended  Voyage  to 
America,"  tells  us  that  the  French  were  trying  to  overcome 
the  distrust  of  the  Indians,  which  the  kidnapping  exploits  of 
Cartier  had  implanted.  Whether  any  such  fear  of  the  native 
animosity  stood  in  the  way  of  La  Roche's  enterprise  or  not,  is 
not  evident  ;  but  certain  it  is,  that  he  did  not  sail,  and  the 
king  remained  without  a  representative  on  the  St.  Lawrence. 
This  sovereign  gave,  however,  in  1588,  in  requital  of  claims 
made  by  the  heirs  of  Cartier  for  his  unrewarded  services,  a 
charter  to  two  of  that  navigator's  nephews,  Etienne  Charton 
and  Jacques  Noel,  in  which  he  assigned  to  them  for  twelve 
years  the  right  to  trade  for  furs  and  to  work  mines,  with  the 
privilege  of  a  commercial  company.  The  grant  was  made 
partly  to  enable  the  heirs  to  carry  out  Cartier's  injunctions  to 
his  descendants  not  to  abandon  the  country  of  Canada. 
Such  reserved  privileges  were  a  blow  to  the  merchants  of 
St.  Malo,  and  they  drew  the  attention  of  the  Breton  parlia- 
ment to  the  monopoly  in  such  a  way  that  the  king  found  it 
prudent  to  rescind  the  charter,  except  so  far  as  to  mine  at 
Cap  de  Conjugon.  No  one  knows  where  that  cape  was,  or 
that  any  mining  was  done  there.  So  a  second  royal  project 
came  to  naught. 
It  would  have  been  better  if  the  first  expedition  that  really 
got  off  had  never  started.  A  few  years  later  La  Roche, 
who  had  had  much  tribulation  since  his  last  luckless  effort,  was 
commissioned  (Jan.  12,  1590)  to  lead  once  more  a  colony  to 
the  St.  Lawrence.  By  this  act  that  king  revived  the  powers 
which  Francis  I.  had  conferred  on  Roberval.    Chartering  two 
 - 354 - 
1892.]  GIFTS   TO  THE   SOCIETY.  315 
vessels  and,  in  default  of  better  colonists,  filling  them  with 
convicts,  La  Roche  sailed  west  and  made  Sable  Island.  Such 
portion  of  his  company  as  he  did  not  need  while  exploring  for 
a  site,  he  landed  on  this  desert  spot,  not  without  raising  the 
suspicion  that  he  did  not  dare  to  land  them  on  the  mainland, 
for  fear  of  their  deserting  him.  While  searching  for  a  place 
to  settle,  heavy  gales  blew  his  exploring  ships  out  to  sea,  and 
back  to  France.  Those  whom  he  had  abandoned  at  Sable 
Island  were  not  rescued  till  1603,  when  twelve  had  died. 
This  is  the  last  scene  of  that  interval  which  we  have  been 
considering  ;  
but  in  the  near  future  other  spirits  were  to  ani- 
mate New  France,  in  the  persons  of  Pontgrave,  Champlain, 
and  their  associates,  and  a  new  period  of  exploration  was  to 
begin. 
Dr.  Samuel  A.  Green  then  made  the  following  remarks  : 
On  Monday  last  I  received  from  the  widow  of  Dr.  Buck- 
minster  Brown  a  carved  wooden  goblet,  which  was  bequeathed 
by  him  to  the  Historical  Society  with  the  request  that  I  should 
present  it,  "  in  person  or  by  letter,  with  a  written  description 
of  it";  and  in  accordance  with  his  wishes  it  is  now  so  given. 
She  has  furnished  me  with  the  following  history  and  descrip- 
tion, as  
drawn  up  for  the  most  part  by  her  late  husband  :  — 
Dr.  Buckminster  Brown's  History  of  the  Carved  Wooden  Goblet  which 
he  leaves  to  the  Massachusetts  Historical  Society  in  his  will,  dated 
June  5,   1888. 
In  1849  I  attended  Mr.  and  Mrs.  Alexander  Parker,  English  peo- 
ple recently  arrived  in  an  emigrant  ship.  They  had  typhus  fever 
on  board  ship,  and  many  of  their  goods  and  chattels  had  been  thrown 
overboard.  Mr.  Parker  was  a  basket-maker.  I  attended  these  people, 
from  time  to  time,  until  1854.  They  had  a  great  deal  of  sickness,  but 
could  not  pay  any  money  for  attendance.  Mr.  Parker's  father  was  a 
gardener  on  one  of  the  old  estates  in  England,  and  the  son  had  tried  to 
earn  a  living  by  basket-making. 
At  various  times,  when  making  my  visits,  I  noticed  a  beautifully 
shaped  vase  or  goblet,  covered  with  quaint  carvings  and  an  inscription. 
The  inscription  began  on  the  upper  outside  rim  of  the  goblet,  and  then 
continued  on  the  upper  part  of  the  base,  and  thence  ran  around  the 
under  part  of  the  base  or  bottom  of  the  goblet.     It  runs  thus  : — 
 - 355 - 
316  MASSACHUSETTS   HISTORICAL   SOCIETY.  [Feb. 
Accept  my  smale  Gyf  te  and  Good  Will  : 
Desiring  God  to  Blesse  you  still  : 
&  send  you  many 
[On  the  upper  surface  of  the  base] 
Yeers  of  Joy. 
By  Walking  in  the  Liuing  Way : 
God  Grant  so  to  all  his  Elect  : 
In  whom 
[On  the  lower  surface] 
His  Word  takes  Good  Efect  : 
Drinke  so  that  You  may  euer  Liue  : 
Such  Drinke  the  Lord  of  Lyfe  Doth  Giue  : 
To  those  whom  he  redeemed  Deare  : 
Who  With  Pure  hearts  his  Word  do  heare. 
[Date,  in  large  figures,  on  face  of  
goblet] 
1620 
There  are  also,  on  the  face  of  the  goblet,  four  curious  figures,  which, 
after  consulting  two  or  three  persons  who  have  made  such  matters  a 
study,  I  have  concluded  are  crests  from  the  coats-of-arms  of  the  lord 
and  lady  of  the  estate  within  whose  domain  was  the  chapel  where  this 
goblet  was  probably  the  Communion  cup,  —  the  inscription  showing 
this  cup  was  a  gift  to  be  used  for  sacred  purposes. 
It  was  without  doubt  a  sacramental  cup,  a  gift  to  a  chapel.  Prob- 
ably it  
was  made,  designed,  and  inscribed  as  a  gift  from  the  land-owner 
to  a  chapel  on  his  estate. 
This  goblet  was  afterwards  given  to  Dr.  Buckminster  Brown  by  the 
survivor  of  these  two  old  people,  and  is  now,  by  his  request,  presented 
to  the  Massachusetts  Historical  Society,  through  Dr.  Samuel  A.  Green. 
February,  1892. 
Dr.  Brown  was  a  son  of  Dr.  John  Ball  and  Rebecca  (War- 
ren) Brown,  and  born  in  Boston,  on  July  13, 1819.  He  gradu- 
ated at  
the  Harvard  Medical  School  in  the  Class  of  1844,  and 
died  at  Auburndale,  on  December  24,  1891. 
Mrs.  Brown  has  supplemented  the  bequest  by  a  gift  of  some 
interesting  manuscripts  connected  with  the  Warren  family  and 
relating  to  the  Revolutionary  period,  and  of  a  little  book,  en- 
titled u  
Stories  about  General  Warren,"  by  a  Lady  of  Boston 
[Mrs.  Rebecca  (Warren)  Brown]. 
Since  the  last  meeting  I  have  also  received  from  the  widow 
of  Col.  William  Warland  Clapp  the  original  subscription  pa- 
 - 356 - 
1892.]  CONVERSATIONAL   REMARKS.  317 
per  to  the  dinner  in  commemoration  of  the  Two  Hundredth 
Anniversary  of  the  Settlement  of  Boston,  which  was  shown  in 
these  rooms  at  the  last  February  meeting,  and  subsequently 
printed  in  the  Proceedings.  After  Colonel  Clapp's  lamented 
death  on  December  8,  1891,  the  paper  was  found  among  his 
effects  in  an  envelope,  marked  :  "  Quite  valuable.  I  enclose 
this  for  the  Mass.  Historical  Society,  to  be  given  through  Dr. 
S.  A.  Green  "  ;  and,  in  compliance  with  this  request,  it  is  now 
so  presented. 
It  is  a  gratifying  fact  to  know  that  persons  outside  of  the 
membership  look  upon  the  Society  as  a  safe  depository  for 
relics  and  manuscripts  of  an  historical  character  ;  and  it  is 
a  coincidence  that  within  a  few  days  it  should  have  fallen 
to  my  lot  in  this  way  to  carry  out  the  last  wishes  of  two 
old  friends. 
Mr.  Gamaliel  Bradford  read  some  extracts  from  Fiske's 
"  Critical  Period  of  American  History,"  and  then  spoke  briefly 
of  the  condition  of  the  country  at  the  close  of  the  War  of  the 
Revolution  as  contrasted  with  its  condition  at  the  close  of  the 
Rebellion  and  at  the  present  time. 
Mr.  James  M.  Bugbee  communicated  the  memoir  of  the 
late  Hon.  Samuel  C.  Cobb,  which  he  had  been  appointed  to 
prepare  for  the  Proceedings. 
During  the  meeting  remarks  of  a  conversational  character 
were  made  by  the  President,  Mr.  Charles  F.  Adams,  Rev. 
Dr.  Edmund  F.  Slafter,  Mr.  Henry  W.  Haynes,  Mr.  Ed- 
ward J.  
Lowell,  and  Dr.  Samuel  A.  Green, 
 - 357 - 
318  MASSACHUSETTS  HISTORICAL  SOCIETY.  [Feb. 
MEMOIR 
OF 
HON.   SAMUEL   CROCKER   COBB. 
BY  JAMES  M.  BUGBEE. 
Samuel  Crocker  Cobb  was  a  descendant  in  the  fifth  genera- 
tion from  Austin  (or  Augustine)  Cobb,  who  first  appears  as  a 
resident  of  Taunton,  Massachusetts,  in  1670,  and  who  received 
a  deed  of  his  farm  in  that  town  from  John  Cobb,  his  cousin,1 
Aug.  13,  1679.  Gen.  David  Cobb,  the  great-grandson  of 
Augustine,  was  born  in  Attleborough,  Massachusetts,  Sept.  14, 
1748,  and  died  in  Taunton,  April  14,  1830.  He  was  a  man  of 
varied  accomplishments,  and  played  a  conspicuous  part  dur- 
ing and  following  the  period  of  the  Revolutionary  War.  Af- 
ter graduating  from  Harvard  College  in  the  class  of  1766,  he 
studied  medicine  under  Dr.  Nathaniel  Perkins  in  Boston,  and 
was  practising  his  profession  in  Taunton  when  called  upon 
to  serve  with  Robert  Treat  Paine,  his  brother-in-law,  in  the 
Provincial  Congress,  so  called,  which  held  its  first  meeting  in 
Salem  Oct.  5,  1774.  In  1775  he  appears  as  a  member  of  the 
Committee  of  Inspection  and  Correspondence  for  Taunton. 
During  a  part  of  the  year  1776  his  name  is  borne  upon  the 
rolls  of  Col.  Thomas  Marshall's  regiment  as  "  Surgeon."2  In 
January,  1777,  he  was  commissioned  Lieutenant-Colonel  in 
the  Sixteenth  Regiment,  and  later  was  assigned  to  duty  on 
General  Washington's  staff.  He  was  a  gallant  and  merito- 
rious officer  ;  and  at  the  close  of  the  war  his  services  were 
rewarded  by  a  grant  of  land  and  the  brevet  rank  of  Brigadier- 
1  John  Cobb  was  in  Taunton  as  early  as  1653.  His  relationship  to  Henry- 
Cobb,  one  of  the  first  settlers  of  Barnstable,  has  not  been  established.  Savage 
says  Augustine  was  "thought  to  be  the  brother  of  John" ;  
but  it  appears,  from 
an  entry  in  the  "  Proprietor's  Book,"  that  he  was  a  cousin. 
2  The  Lieut.  David  Cobb  who  appears  on  the  rolls  of  Captain  Read's  Com- 
pany of  
Col.  John  Thomas's  Regiment  in  1775,  was  of  Abington,  Massachusetts. 
 - 358 - 
 - 359 - 
 - 360 - 
 - 361 - 
 - 362 - 
1892.]  MEMOIR   OF   HON.    SAMUEL   CROCKER    COBB.  319 
General.1  As  soon  as  he  was  relieved  from  military  service, 
he  was  appointed  (June  7,  1784)  by  Governoi  Hancock  to  be 
Special  Justice  of  the  Court  of  Common  Pleas  in  Bristol 
County;  and  in  the  following  year  (Jan.  28,  1785)  he  was 
commissioned  as  one  of  the  standing  justices  of  that  court. 
In  December,  1785,  lie  was  chosen  by  the  Legislature  to  be 
Major-General  of  the  Fifth  Division  of  the  Massachusetts 
Militia.  It  was  while  holding  these  positions  of  Judge  and 
General  that  he  won  something  more  than  a  local  reputation, 
by  his  firmness  in  checking  the  riotous  demonstrations  against 
the  law  courts  of  the  Commonwealth  in  the  autumn  of  1786. 
General  Cobb's  subsequent  career  in  the  public  service  has 
been  described  elsewhere,  and  does  not  call  for  extended  no- 
tice  here.2     He  was  Speaker  of  the   Massachusetts  House  of 
Representatives  for  four  years  (1789-1792)  ;  member  of  the 
Third  Congress  of  the  United  States  (Dec.  2, 1793,  to  March  3, 
17%)  ;  
President  of  the  State  Senate  four  years  (1801-1804)  ; 
member  of  the  Executive  Council  eight  years  (1805,  1808, 1812- 
) ;     
Lieutenant-Governor  of   the   Commonwealth,    1809  ; 
:    
Justice  of  the    Court  of  Common    Pleas  for  Hancock 
T,  District  of  Maine,  from  June  14,  1803,  till  1809.     He 
I    
from  Taunton   to   Gouldsborough,   Maine,  in   1795, 
having       en  appointed  agent  of  the  "  Bingham  Purchase."     In 
17  was  appointed  agent  of  the  proprietors  of  Gouldsbor- 
ough 9  
own  grant  of  land  for  military  service  was  in  Sulli- 
van, Maine.  In  1821  he  returned  to  Taunton,  where  he  spent 
the  re  •  r  of  his  life, —  a  kind-hearted  but  somewhat  chol- 
eric old  gen  email,  who  did  much  to  promote  the  educational 
and  relig  rests  of  his  townsmen,  and  made  it  unpleas- 
ant for  th<  o  did  not  walk  in  the  path  which  he  appointed. 
He  receive*    the  honorary  degree  of  A.M.  from   New  Jersey 
1  A  portion  of  I  -re  diary  of  General  Cobb,  covering  the  siege  of  York- 
town  during  the  months  of  October  and  November,  1781,  was  printed  in  the  Pro- 
ceedings, vol.  xix.  pp.  07-72. 
2  A  sketch  of  General  Cobb's  life  is  given  in  an  address  delivered  at  the 
Taunton  Lyceum  bj  the  Hon.  Francis  Baylies,  in  1830,  printed  in  the  "New 
England  Historical  and  Genealogical  Register,"  and  reprinted  in  pamphlet  form 
by  Munsell,  at  Albany,  in  1864.  Short  biographical  notices  are  also  given  in 
Williams's  "American  Medical  Biography,"  p.  82,  and  in  the  "  Memorials  of  the 
Massachusetts  Society  of  the  Cincinnati,"  editions  of  1873  and  1800.  Mr. 
Baylies's  address  contained  many  errors,  some  of  which  have  been  copied  in 
subsequent  notices.  The  statements  given  above  in  relation  to  General  Cobb's 
public  services  have  been  verified  from  the  official  records  at  the  State  House. 
 - 363 - 
320  MASSACHUSETTS   HISTOBICAL   SOCIETY.  [Feb, 
College  in  1783,  and  from  Brown  University  in  1790;  was  a 
member  of  the  American  Academy  of  Arts  and  Sciences,  of 
the  Massachusetts  Medical  Society,  and  of  the  Society  of  the 
Cincinnati,  of  which  he  was  Vice-President  in  1810. 
General  Cobb  married,  in  1766,  Eleanor  Bradish,  and  had 
six  sons  and  five  daughters.  The  youngest  son  (born  Jan.  14, 
1790  ;  
died  Feb.  27,  1832)  was  named  George  Washington  ; 
but  after  the  death  of  his  brother  David,  who  was  killed  by 
the  Indians  on  the  northwest  coast,  Oct.  24,  1794,  he  took  the 
name  of  David  George  Washington.  He  was  educated  as  a 
lawyer.  In  1820  he  was  chosen  to  represent  the  town  in  the 
General  Court,  and  in  the  following  year  was  appointed  Regis- 
ter of  Probate  for  Bristol  County.  He  held  that  office  until 
his  death,  in  1832.  He  married  Abby,  daughter  of  the  Hon. 
Samuel  Crocker,  of  Taunton,  and  had  two  sons  and  two 
daughters. 
The  subject  of  this  sketch,  Samuel  Crocker  Cobb,  was  the 
second  son,  and  was  born  in  Taunton,  May  22,  1826.  Among 
other  private  schools  which  he  attended  in  his  early  youth 
was  the  one  kept  by  Rev.  E.  M.  P.  Wells,  in  South  Boston. 
His  stay  there  was  brief  and  unsatisfactory.  He  was  then 
sent  to  the  Bristol  Academy,  in  Taunton,  of  which  his  grand- 
father, General  Cobb,  was  the  founder  in  1792.1  He  was 
fitted  for  college  there,  and  expected  to  enter  Harvard  College 
in  1842  ;  
but  much  to  his  regret  then,  and  indeed  throughout 
his  life,  he  was  obliged  to  give  up  his  studies  and  begin  earn- 
ing his  own  living.  On  Sept.  19,  1842,  being  then  only  a  lit- 
tle over  sixteen  years  of  age,  he  became  a  clerk  in  the  service 
of  Messrs.  A.  &  C.  Cunningham,  foreign  shipping  merchants, 
at  No.  15  Rowe's  Wharf  in  Boston.  In  his  journal,  of  which 
some  account  will  be  given  further  on,  he  says,  under  date  of 
April  24,  1845  :  — 
"  Sailed  on  board  the  bark  Kazan,  Capt.  John  Leckie,  for  Konigs- 
berg,  Prussia.  Arrived,  May  19,  1845,  at  Elsinore,  and  left  the  bark 
at  that  port  and  proceeded  to  Konigsberg  by  land,  visiting  Copenhagen, 
Stettin,  and  Berlin  ;  at  which  latter  city  I  took  a  diligence  for  K.,  pass- 
ing through  the  interior  of  Prussia  for  a  distance  of  about  370  English 
miles,  which  occupied  fifty-two  hours  of  continuous  travelling.  Passed 
through  twenty-seven  towns  and  villages.  .  .  .  Ship  at  Konigsberg  was 
consigned  to  Mr.  F.  S.  Fischel,  who  received  the  outward  and  furnished 
1  So  stated  in  a  vote  adopted  by  the  Trustees  of  the  Academy  in  1796. 
 - 364 - 
1892.]  MEMOIR   OF   HON.    SAMUEL   CROCKER   COBB.  321 
a  return  cargo,  which  consisted  of  hemp,  spelter,  bristles,  and  hog's  hair. 
Sailed  from  Konigsberg  for  Boston  June  4,  and  anchored  off  the  end 
of  Long  Wharf  at  11  p.  m.,  July  21,  1845.  Returned  to  the  counting- 
house  of  A.  &  C.  Cunningham,  and  there  remained  as  book-keeper  till 
Oct.  5,  1846.  Then  embarked  for  Rio  de  Janeiro  on  board  the  brig 
Cecilia,  Capt.  Edward  Leckie,  —  having  purchased  one  half  this  vessel, 
and  Mr.  J.  Henry  Cunningham  the  other  half,  —  and  put  on  board  a 
cargo  for  our  joint  account.  Mr.  Cunningham  also  took  passage  on 
board.  Dec.  1,  1846,  arrived  at  Rio  de  Janeiro,  after  a  passage  of  fifty- 
seven  days  from  Boston.  Consigned  the  business  to  the  care  of  Messrs. 
Le  Coq  &  Co.  Having  arranged  to  send  the  Cecilia  to  New  Orleans  with 
a  full  freight  of  coffee,  I  decided  to  return  to  New  York,  to  which  port 
we  had  made  a  shipment  of  coffee  ;  and  Mr.  Cunningham  proceeded  for 
New  Orleans,  to  look  after  the  business  of  the  Cecilia  at  that  port. 
Dec.  20,  1846,  sailed  from  Rio  de  Janeiro,  a  passenger  on  board  the 
ship  Courier,  Capt.  Win.  Wolfe,  and  arrived  Jan.  29,  1847,  after  a  fine 
passage  of  40  days.  April  27,  1847,  formed  a  business  connection  with 
my  esteemed  friend  and  former  clerkmate,  J.  Henry  Cunningham, 
under  the  firm  name  of  Cunningham  &  Cobb,  and  took  an  office  in  a 
brick  building,  then  new,  opposite  the  head  of  Rowe's  Wharf,  Boston, 
on  Broad  Street  (No.  169).1  July  1,  1848,  Chas.  W.  Cunningham, 
an  older  brother  of  Henry,  was  admitted  a  member  of  the  firm,  and  the 
style  was  thereafter  changed  to  Cunninghams  &  Cobb.  Nov.  8,  1847, 
sailed  from  Boston  for  Rio  de  Janeiro,  having  taken  passage  on  board 
the  new  ship  Peterhof,  Capt.  Lewis  Endicott,  —  Elisha  Whiting, 
first  officer.  This  fine  ship  was  built  by  Sam'l  Hall  at  East  Boston, 
and  was  designed  expressly  for  the  Russian  trade,  and  coffee  trade  as 
well.  Arrived  at  Rio  de  Janeiro,  Dec.  24,  '47,  after  a  passage  of  46 
days.  Jan.  22,  1848,  sailed  from  Rio  de  Janeiro  for  New  Orleans, 
having  concluded  my  business  there  and  taken  passage  on  board  the 
Peterhof." 
On  Nov.  21,  1848,  he  married  (at  Belfast,  Maine)  Anrelia  L. 
Beattie,  of  East  Thomaston,  Maine,  third  daughter  of  William 
and  Jane  D.  Beattie  of  that  town. 
Under  date  of  Nov.  14,  1849,  he  says  :  — 
u  Sailed  from  Boston,  accompanied  by  Mrs.  Cobb  and  servant,  on 
board  the  bark  Orono,  Capt.  Christopher  Chase,  for  Messina,  Sicily, 
the  firm  of  which  I  was  a  member  having  chartered  this  vessel  (owned 
by  Col.  Black  of  Ellsworth,  Me.)  for  a  voyage  to  Sicily  and  back. 
We  arrived  at  Messina  after  a  pleasant  passage  of  about  thirty-five  days, 
and  consigned  the  vessel  to  a  German  house,  Messrs.  D.  Claussen  & 
1  The  place  of  business  was  subsequently  removed  to  No.  16  Rowe's  Wharf. 
41 
 - 365 - 
322  MASSACHUSETTS   HISTORICAL   SOCIETY.  [Feb. 
Co.,  who  took  charge  of  and  sold  the  outward  cargo,  which  consisted 
principally  of  oranges  and  lemons.  At  Messina  we  met  Capt  Wm. 
Beecher,  of  New  York.  We  also  met  there  Gustavus  Tuckerman  and 
Theodore  S.  Bigelow,  both  of  Boston  and  old  acquaintances  of  mine. 
The  American  consul,  Mr.  F.  W.  Behn,  and  Mrs.  B.  (of  Kentucky) 
were  exceedingly  kind  to  us  and  showed  us  many  attentions,  as  did  also 
Mr.  Claussen  and  family.  We  met  there  also  Capt.  Latimer,  then 
ill  command  of  the  U.  S.  frigate  Cumberland,  and  several  of  his 
officers.  We  proceeded  from  Messina  in  a  small  steamer  to  Palermo 
(about  twelve  hours)  early  in  January,  1850,  where  business  detained 
me  until  February  22,  when  we  embarked  on  board  the  bark  Rover, 
Capt.  Nelson,  for  New  York,  and  arrived  there  after  a  stormy  pas- 
sage of  
sixty  days.  At  Palermo  we  formed  many  acquaintances,  some 
of  which  proved  forever  afterwards  highly  esteemed  and  valued  friends. 
Among  others,  we  met  Messrs.  James  Rose  and  Edward  Gardner,  of 
the  house  of  Gardner,  Rose  &  Co.,  with  whom  for  twenty-eight  years 
afterwards  I  enjoyed  an  uninterrupted  business  correspondence  and  in- 
tercourse ;  
also  Mr.  and  Mrs.  John  M.  Marston  (Mrs.  Marston  was 
sister  of  John  E.  and  Nathaniel  Thayer,  bankers,  of  Boston,  Mass.), 
then,  and  for  many  years  subsequently,  the  U.  S.  Consul  at  that  port." 
The  firm  of  Cunninghams  &  Cobb  was  dissolved  in  1850, 
when  the  house  of  A.  Cunningham  &  Sons  was  formed.  Mr. 
Cobb  then  made  arrangements  to  go  to  the.  East  Indies  and 
remain  there  as  the  agent  of  Weld  &  Baker  ;  but  on  the  eve 
of  saijing  he  had  some  difficulty  with  his  principals,  and  with- 
drew from  their  service. 
In  1851  he  formed  a  partnership  with  Mr.  Josiah  Wheel- 
wright for  
the  prosecution  of  a  foreign  shipping  and  commission 
business.  The  firm  occupied  the  store  No.  47  Central  Wharf. 
This  connection  continued  till  August,  1858,  when  the  firm 
was  by  mutual  consent  dissolved,  Mr.  Wheelwright  retiring 
from  active  business. 
From  1858  until  1878  Mr.  Cobb  carried  on  business  alone 
and  in  his  own  name,  first  on  Central  Wharf,  afterward  at  No. 
3  Merchants'  Row,  and  later  in  the  New  England  Mutual  Life 
Insurance  Building  on  Milk  Street.     In  his  journal  he  says  : 
"  During  the  twenty  years  I  was  alone  in  business  I  was  engaged 
principally  in  the  Sicily  trade,  and  with  the  Cape  de  Verde  Islands  and 
Northwest  Coast  of  Africa  (Senegal  and  Gambia).  But  I  found  time 
to  prosecute  the  Brazil  trade  (Pernambuco  and  Bahia)  to  some  extent, 
also  that  of  Russia  and  Malaga.  A  portion  of  my  business  was  on 
commission,  mainly  with  Palermo,  Sicily,  and  Liverpool,  England.      I 
 - 366 - 
1892.]  MEMOIR   OF   HON.    SAMUEL   CROCKER   COBB.  323 
became  interested,  from  time  to  time,  in  vessels  which  I  employed  in 
my  own  business  and  occasionally  chartered.  In  carrying  on  the  Cape 
de  Verde  and  West  Coast  of  Africa  business,  I  was  jointly  interested 
with  Mr.  Francis  C.  Butman,  of  Salem,  doing  business  in  Boston.  We 
shared  the  labor,  each  one  undertaking  to  carry  on  a  portion  of  the 
business  in  our  individual  names  for  our  joint  account.  We  prosecuted 
at  one  time  the  Pernambuco  and  Bahia  business  in  the  same  manner 
and  to  our  mutual  advantage." 
From  1860  to  1877  Mr.  Cobb  gave  considerable  time  to  the 
public  service,  often  at  the  expense  of  his  private  interests. 
He  was  originally  a  member  of  the  Whig  party,  and  voted  for 
the  candidates  of  that  party  as  long  as  it  existed  in  sufficient 
strength  to  make  nominations.  He  never  felt  at  home  in  any 
other  party.  After  1860  he  generally  acted  with  the  Demo- 
cratic organizations  on  State  and  national  question?  ;  
but  on 
questions  of  local  government  he  refused  to  be  bound  by  any 
party  caucus  or  convention.  He  was  essentially  a  business 
man,  and  held  and  expressed  very  decided  opinions  on  the 
absurdity  of  bringing  national  party  politics  to  bear  in  the 
determination  of  questions  relating  to  roadways,  sewers,  water- 
supply,  and  local  police.  In  his  public  speeches  and  addresses 
he  lost  no  opportunity  of  trying  to  impress  the  voters  with 
the  fact  that  in  the  management  of  the  affairs  of  municipal 
corporations  the  same  rules  should  apply  as  in  the  manage- 
ment of  
large  business  corporations,  and  that  the  introduction 
of  party  tests  which  have  no  relation  to  local  affairs  has  done 
much  to  corrupt  the  service  and  bring  our  system  of  local 
government  into  disrepute. 
In  1860  Mr.  Cobb  was  elected  a  member  of  the  Roxbury 
Board  of  Aldermen,  and  served  for  two  years  with  credit  to 
himself  and  his  constituents.  He  was  then  called  to  Europe 
on  business  connected  with  his  shipping  interests,  which  had 
been  seriously  affected  by  the  war.  On  the  annexation  of 
Roxbury  to  Boston,  in  1867,  he  was  elected  to  the  Boston 
Board  of  Aldermen.  At  that  time  the  members  of  the  board 
were  voted  for  on  a  general  ticket  ;  and  it  is  a  striking  evidence 
of  the  estimation  in  which  he  was  held  by  his  neighbors,  and 
of  the  position  he  then  occupied  as  one  of  the  leading  mer- 
chants of  
Boston,  that  he  was  chosen  by  a  nearly  unanimous 
vote.  The  charter  under  which  the  city  was  then  ruled  pro- 
vided that  the  executive  powers  of  the  government  should  be 
 - 367 - 
324  MASSACHUSETTS    HISTORICAL   SOCIETY.  [Feb. 
exercised  by  the  Board  of  Aldermen  ;  
but  the  Common  Council 
had  usurped  a  large  share  of  the  executive  functions  by  having 
a  stronger  numerical  representation  upon  joint  committees 
which  practically  controlled  many  of  the  departments.  Mr. 
Cobb  was  one  of  the  first  to  see  the  weakness  of  the  existing 
system,  and  to  urge  a  greater  concentration  of  power  and 
responsibility.  He  found  that  the  duties  of  the  Aldermanic 
office  demanded  the  larger  part  of  his  time,  and  that  the  results 
of  his  labor  were  far  from  satisfactory.  For  these  reasons  he 
declined  a  re-election.  But  in  the  following  year  he  accepted 
a  position  on  the  Board  of  Public  Institutions,  where  his  firm- 
ness of  
purpose  and  business  ability  were  brought  to  bear  with 
practical  results  which  the  average  citizen  could  well  appre- 
ciate. A  
very  determined  effort  was  being  made  to  commit 
the  city  to  the  building  and  maintenance  of  a  great  institution 
for  the  insane  on  a  lot  of  land  which  the  best  expert  opinion 
had  condemned  as  unsuitable.  Mr.  Cobb  took  the  ground 
that  it  was  the  duty  of  the  State  to  provide  such  institutions  ; 
and  that,  in  any  case,  the  site  selected  and  the  plans  submitted 
were  defective  and  ought  not  to  be  approved.  During  his  ser- 
vice of  
about  four  years  and  a  half  on  the  board  he  introduced 
some  reforms  in  the  purchase  of  supplies  and  in  the  business 
management  of  the  institutions  which  were  of  lasting  value. 
On  Nov.  11,  1873,  at  a  meeting  of  the  citizens  of  Boston 
which  included  prominent  members  of  the  two  leading  political 
parties,  Mr.  Cobb  was  unanimously  nominated  for  the  office  of 
Mayor.  The  City  Committees  of  the  Democratic  and  Repub- 
lican parties  also  nominated  him  at  a  later  day  ;  and  on  the 
day  of  election  he  received  19,191  votes,  while  his  only  op- 
ponent, a  
Prohibitionist,  received  568.  Although  the  local 
politicians  had  no  liking  for  him,  the  popular  demand  for  his 
re-election  in  the  following  year  was  so  strong  that  the  leaders 
of  the  two  parties  felt  obliged  to  nominate  him  again,  and  he 
was  chosen  for  a  second  term  by  a  nearly  unanimous  vote. 
In  1875  the  party  leaders  made  a  desperate  effort  to  get  pos- 
session of  
the  office,  and  with  that  view  succeeded  in  getting 
both  the  Democratic  and  Republican  City  Committees  to 
unite  on  another  candidate.  Mr.  Cobb  had  stated  that  he 
should  not  be  a  candidate  for  a  third  term  ;  
but  a  paper 
asking  him  to  serve  another  year  received  the  signatures  of 
some  two  thousand  prominent  citizens,  and  he  did  not  feel 
 - 368 - 
1892. J  MEMOIR   OF   HON.   SAMUEL   CROCKER   COBB.  325 
at  liberty  to  decline  such  a  call.  A  spirited  contest  fol- 
lowed, resulting  in  the  election  of  Mr.  Cobb  by  a  plurality 
of  2,574  votes.  He  states  in  his  journal  that  he  did  not 
contribute,  nor  was  he  solicited  to  contribute  any  money, 
directly  or  indirectly,  toward  the  expenses  of  his  election. 
At  the  time  Mr.  Cobb  was  placed  at  the  head  of  the 
government  the  population  of  the  city  had  reached  a  point 
which  made  a  change  in  the  methods  of  administration 
almost  as  imperative  as  it  was  when  the  representative  system 
was  substituted  for  the  popular  assembly.  The  annexation 
of  Charlestown,  West  Roxbury,  and  Brighton  had  nearly 
doubled  the  municipal  area,  and  had  added  about  44,000 
inhabitants.  The  first  city  charter  was  drawn  on  lines  as 
close  to  the  town-meeting  system  as  the  representative  plan 
would  allow.  The  revision  of  1854,  necessitated  to  some 
extent  by  the  amendments  to  the  State  Constitution,  tended 
to  weaken  what  indeed  had  most  need  of  strengthening,  —  the 
executive  power  and  responsibility  of  the  Chief  Executive. 
Hon.  Henry  L.  Pierce,  who  had  preceded  Mr.  Cobb  in  the 
office  of  Mayor,  had  been  so  impressed  with  the  inefficiency 
of  the  old  system  that  he  had  recommended  the  appoint- 
ment of a  commission  to  revise  the  charter.  The  recom- 
mendation had  been  adopted  by  the  City  Council,  and  the 
Commission  had  been  appointed  in  the  latter  part  of  1873, 
and  had  entered  upon  its  duties.  Mr.  Cobb,  in  his  first 
inaugural  address,  warmly  commended  the  action,  and  said  : 
"I  am  satisfied  that  the  affairs  of  the  city  can  be  managed  with 
greater  economy  and  efficiency  by  vesting  in  the  City  Council  all 
the  legislative  powers  of  the  Corporation,  and  in  the  Mayor  and  cer- 
tain boards  and  heads  of  departments  all  the  executive  powers." 
And  in  subsequently  transmitting  to  the  City  Council  the 
report  of  the  Commission,  he  said  :  — 
"The  work  is  marked  by  an  intelligent  conservatism,  suited  to 
the  traditions  and  customs  of  our  people.  No  changes  are  proposed 
in  the  present  methods  of  carrying  on  the  government  except  those 
which  have  borne  the  test  of  experience,  and  which  are  clearly  de- 
manded by  
the  present  condition  and  prospective  growth  of  the  city. 
It  has  long  been  apparent  that  the  business  of  the  government  has 
suffered  from  the  lack  of  permanence  and  responsibility  in  the  legis- 
lative and  executive  departments.    As  the  city  increases  in  area  and 
 - 369 - 
326  MASSACHUSETTS  HISTORICAL   SOCIETY.  [Feb. 
population,  this  defect  in  our  organization  becomes  more  and  more 
conspicuous.  ...  It  is  evident  that  the  city  has  now  reached  a  point 
in  its  growth  where  a  change  is  as  much  needed  as  it  was  in  1822. 
The  people  have  lost  their  homogeneous  character.  The  duties  of 
the  local  government  can  no  longer  be  performed  in  the  neighborly 
spirit  which  is  characteristic  of  smaller  communities.  Training  and 
experience  are  necessary  to  the  proper  administration  of  our  affairs. 
To  secure  this,  the  tenure  of  omce  must  be  increased,  the  legislative 
functions  must  be  separated  as  far  as  practicable  from  the  executive 
functions,  and  the  responsibility  for  the  faithful  and  intelligent  execu- 
tion of  
the  laws  must  be  clearly  defined." 
The  two  branches  of  the  City  Council  were  unable  to  agree 
either  upon  the  charter  recommended  by  the  Commission  or 
upon  any  modification  of  it ;  but  some  of  its  provisions  were 
subsequently  incorporated  into  special  laws  relating  to  the 
city.  It  was  fortunate,  perhaps,  that  the  plan  of  government 
submitted  by  the  Commission  was  not  adopted  as  a  whole.  It 
was  too  elaborate  ;  it  provided  for  too  many  heads  of  depart- 
ments, and  it  undertook  to  limit  and  define  their  duties  so 
closely  that  there  was  no  room  left  for  discretion,  and  no 
inducement  to  take  the  initiative  in  any  new  work.  The  need 
of  a  strong  and  responsible  executive  was  not  so  generally 
recognized  then  as  it  was  at  a  later  day.  It  was  necessary  that 
the  inefficiency  and  wastefulness  of  the  old  system  should  be 
brought  out  more  clearly  before  anything  like  an  adequate 
remedy  could  be  applied.  Mr.  Cobb  and  others,  who  heartily 
supported  the  plan  as  reported,  did  not  regard  it  as  a  measure 
good  for  all  time,  but  simply  as  a  step  —  and  at  that  time  it 
was  looked  upon  as  a  long  step —  in  the  direction  of  separat- 
ing and  defining  the  powers  of  government  and  securing  a 
better  system  of  accountability.  Ten  years  later  Mr.  Cobb,  as 
Chairman  of  a  Commission  appointed  by  the  Mayor,  recom- 
mended a  
plan  which  went  much  further  in  the  direction  of 
strengthening  the  power  of  the  Chief  Executive  and  curtail- 
ing the  powers  of  the  Legislative  Department  ;  and  public 
opinion  had  so  far  changed  in  the  mean  time  that  the  leading 
propositions  were  adopted  without  serious  opposition,  and  incor- 
porated into  the  Act  under  which  the  city  is  now  governed. 
A  number  of  important  Acts  affecting  the  future  welfare  of 
the  city  were  adopted  during  Mr.  Cobb's  administration.  In 
his  first  message  to  the  City  Council,  Jan.  5,  1874,  he  said  : 
 - 370 - 
1892.]  MEMOIR   OF   HON.    SAMUEL   CROCKER   COBB.  327 
"I  am  decidedly  in  favor  of  the  establishment  of  several  public 
squares  in  different  sections  of  the  city,  to  be  connected  together  if 
practicable,  and  which  shall  be  easily  accessible  to  the  people  ;  and 
I  believe  this  to  be  a  suitable  time  to  decide  on  some  definite  plan, 
with  a  view  to  proceeding  with  the  work  at  an  early  day.  The 
first  outlay,  though  distributed  over  several  years,  will  no  doubt  be 
large ;  
but  the  experience  of  other  cities  can  be  cited  to  show  that, 
as  a  business  transaction,  aside  from  the  sauitary  benefits,  it  would 
be  a  financial  success." 
Upon  this  recommendation  a  petition  was  sent  to  the 
General  Court,  and.  in  the  following  year  an  Act  was  passed 
which  authorized  the  establishment  of  the  present  system 
of  public  parks. 
It  was  also  upon  his  recommendation  that  the  important 
department  of  Water  Supply  was  transferred  from  the  un- 
paid and  inefficient  board  (composed  of  members  of  the  City 
Council,  and  of  citizens  at  large  elected  by  the  City  Council) 
to  a  commission  of  three  persons  selected  by  the  Mayor  and 
paid  for  their  services. 
During  the  second  year  of  his  administration,  and  largely 
perhaps  through  his  influence,  an  Act  was  passed  to  regulate 
and  limit  municipal  indebtedness.  This  enabled  him  to  intro- 
duce what  he  tersely  described  as  "  the  payr-as-you-go  policy," 
—  that  is,  to  raise  sufficient  money  by  taxation  annually  to 
pay  all  expenses  except  those  incurred  for  the  enlargement  of 
the  water-works,  for  Avhich  a  separate  tax  is  levied.  What 
he  was  able  to  do  in  that  direction  gave  him  more  satisfaction 
as  a  business  man  than  all  the  rest  of  his  work  in  the  Mayor's 
office. 
At  the  conclusion  of  his  three  years'  service  he  was  able  to 
say  that  the  tax  levy  had  been  reduced  $2,775,098  ;  and  that 
the  rate  of  taxation  had  been  reduced  from  $15.60  on  a  thou- 
sand dollars  to  $12.70,  notwithstanding  the  fact  that  the  valu- 
ation of  
real  and  personal  property  had  been  reduced  in  the 
mean  time  by  the  amount  of  $49,876,950. 
Soon  after  retiring  from  the  Mayor's  office,  Mr.  Cobb  went 
to  Europe,  where  he  spent  some  months  in  travelling.  On  his 
return  he  was  chosen  (Sept.  1,  1877)  President  of  the  Revere 
National  Bank,  to  succeed  the  Hon.  Samuel  H.  Walley,  who 
had  recently  deceased.  Much  to  the  regret  of  the  Directors 
of  the  bank,  he  resigned  the  presidency  on  March  30,  1878,  to 
 - 371 - 
328  MASSACHUSETTS   HISTORICAL   SOCIETY.  [Feb. 
accept  the  position  of  Actuary  in  the  Massachusetts  Hospital 
Life  Insurance  Company,  formerly  held  by  the  Hon.  George 
Tyler  Bigelow.  Of  his  services  in  this  office  —  which  is  one  of 
much  dignity  and  responsibility,  but  by  no  means  one  of  .ease 
in  these  days  of  accumulated  capital  competing  for  invest- 
ment—  the  Board  of  Control  placed  on  their  records,  after 
his  death,  the  following  statement:  — 
"  During  the  thirteen  years  that  Mr.  Cobb  was  connected  with  the 
company  he  conducted  its  affairs  with  ability,  prudence,  and  skill  ;  with 
conscientious  fidelity  to  the  duties  of  his  responsible  position,  and  entire 
devotion  to  the  administration  of  the  trust  confided  to  him.  His  high 
and  manly  character,  his  sagacity  and  public  spirit,  his  genial  temper, 
generous  disposition,  and  courteous  bearing,  united  to  win  the  love  and 
esteem  of  all  who  were  associated  with  him,  while  throughout  the  com- 
munity he  
was  recognized  and  honored  as  a  loyal,  far-seeing,  influential, 
and  useful  citizen." 
Mr.  Cobb  well  illustrated  the  saying  that  it  is  the  busy  man 
wTho  finds  time  for  everything.  His  intimate  and  peculiar 
knowledge  of  commercial  affairs  and  of  the  financial  standing 
of  his  business  contemporaries  led  to  a  constant  demand  for 
his  services  in  positions  of  public  and  private  trust,  and  on 
boards  of  arbitration  selected  by  the  courts  or  by  the  parties 
in  interest.  He  gave  much  time,  and  often  to  the  injury  of  his 
health,  in  aid  of  the  various  charitable,  religious,  and  educa- 
tional institutions  to  which  he  belonged.  He  had  a  keen  sense 
of  his  responsibility  in  every  position  in  which  he  happened  to 
be  placed.  The  Massachusetts  Society  of  the  Cincinnati,  of 
which  at  the  time  of  his  death  he  was  president,  placed  on 
record  the  statement  that  "  his  services  to  the  Society  as  an 
officer  for  more  than  twenty-five  years,  and  as  a  member  of 
its  Standing  Committee  since  1861,  is  a  history  of  constant 
and  disinterested  devotion.  None  took  a  higher  pride  in  its 
membership  than  he;  none  watched  more  constantly  over  the 
maintenance  of  its  traditions  and  usages;  none  guarded  it  more 
jealously  against  any  tendencies  toward  the  destruction  or 
ancient  and  useful  landmarks." 
Mr.  Cobb  was  for  some  years  an  active  and  influential 
member  of  the  Board  of  Directors  of  the  Institute  of  Tech- 
nology. He  
was  also  one  of  the  Directors  of  the  Old  Colony 
Railroad  Company,  a  Trustee  of  the  Bay  State  Trust  Company 
 - 372 - 
1892.]  MEMOIR   OF   HON.    SAMUEL   CROCKER   COBB.  329 
and  of  the  Forest  Hills  Cemetery  j  
Chairman  of  the  Commis- 
sion to  
select  a  site  and  build  the  Danvers  Hospital  for  the 
Insane  ;  and  Treasurer  of  the  Society  for  Propagating  the 
Gospel  among  the  Indians. 
He  was  often  called  upon  to  speak  in  public  as  the  repre- 
sentative of  
the  city  or  of  some  organization  of  which  he  was 
a  member,  and  although  without  either  special  training  or 
natural  aptitude  for  such  service,  he  acquitted  himself  well. 
On  occasions  for  which  he  was  able  to  make  some  preparation 
beforehand,  the  matter  and  form  of  his  addresses  were  excel- 
lent. His  address  of  welcome  to  the  city's  guests  at  the  cele- 
bration of the  one  hundredth  anniversary  of  the  battle  of 
Bunker  Hill  (June  16,  1875),  his  oration  on  the  centennial 
anniversary  of  the  Massachusetts  Society  of  the  Cincinnati 
(July  4,  1883),  and  his  speech  at  the  banquet  of  the  General 
Society  of  the  Cincinnati  in  Baltimore  (May,  1890)  contain 
matter  of  historical  value. 
During  the  greater  part  of  his  business  life  Mr.  Cobb  lived 
on  Highland  Street,  in  Roxbury,  having  for  his  next-door 
neighbor  Rev.  George  Putnam,  D.D.,  of  whose  church  he  was 
long  one  of  the  most  active  and  valued  members.  In  1878  he 
removed  to  Boylston  Street,  in  Boston,  and  subsequently  be- 
came a  member  of  the  First  Church,  Berkeley  Street. 
Until  middle  life  he  was  a  man  of  more  than  ordinarily 
strong  and  vigorous  constitution.  In  1870  he  had  a  serious 
illness,  growing  out  of  his  arduous  services  in  the  Board  of 
Aldermen  in  addition  to  his  large  private  business.  He  never 
fully  recovered  his  former  vigor,  although  outwardly  he 
showed  no  signs  of  impaired  health  until  the  spring  of  1890. 
He  was  then  suffering  intense  pain  from  an  internal  disease, 
but  continued  to  perform  his  usual  amount  of  work  until  the 
peremptory  orders  of  his  physician  obliged  him  to  desist.  The 
nature  and  extent  of  his  illness  were  not  fully  known  until 
near  the  end.  After  many  weeks  of  suffering,  which  he  bore 
with  admirable  courage,  "  sustained  and  soothed  by  an  unfal- 
tering trust,"  he  passed  away  peacefully  and  apparently  with- 
out pain,  on  Feb  18,  1891.  He  was  buried  at  Forest  Hills 
Cemetery. 
Mr.  Cobb's  character  was  not  one  that  calls  for  elaborate 
analysis.  He  was  a  thoroughly  healthy-minded  man,  to  whom 
life  was  sweet.     He  possessed  a  singularly  frank  and  open 
42 
 - 373 - 
330  MASSACHUSETTS    HISTORICAL   SOCIETY.  [Feb. 
nature,  and  was  candid  and  direct  in  motive  and  purpose. 
He  had  a  good  knowledge  of  character  and  sound  business  in- 
stincts. His  mental  and  physical  courage  were  equal  to  any 
emergency;  and  his  promptness  in  action,  and  contempt  for 
anything  like  trifling  or  a  want  of  resolution,  showed  that  he 
had  inherited  the  prominent  traits  which  history  and  tradition 
have  assigned  to  his  paternal  grandfather. 
At  a  very  early  age  he  began  to  keep  a  diary,  in  which  he 
noted,  at  first  in  the  briefest  form,  his  own  doings  from  day  to 
day.  Later  he  introduced  some  comments  on  those  with  whom 
he  came  in  contact,  and  on  the  principal  events  of  the  times. 
He  also  kept  in  addition,  during  the  latter  years  of  his  life,  a 
journal,  in  which  he  gave  biographical  notices  of  his  contempo- 
raries and  some  account  of  the  affairs  in  which  he  took  part 
or  in  which  he  "felt  a  special  interest.  The  value  of  the  work 
is  somewhat  impaired  by  the  form  in  which  it  was  put,  and  by 
the  difficulty  of  separating  the  statements  made  on  the  writer's 
personal  knowledge  from  those  copied  from  the  newspapers  of 
the  day.  It  has,  however,  considerable  historical  value,  and 
is  well  worth  preservation  as  a  work  of  reference. 
 - 374 - 
1892.]  REMARKS   BY  THE   PRESIDENT.  331 
MARCH   MEETING,   1892. 
The  stated  meeting  was  held  on  Thursday,  the  10th  instant, 
at  three  o'clock,  p.  m.,  the  President,  Dr.  George  E.  Ellis, 
in  the  chair. 
The  record  of  the  last  meeting  and  the  list  of  donors  to  the 
Library  during  the  last  month  were  read  ;  after  which  the 
President  said  : — 
Death  has  recently  removed  from  the  roll  of  our  Correspond- 
ing Members  two  of  our  associates,  highly  distinguished  and 
honored  for  eminent  service  in  different  ranges  of  ability  and 
usefulness.  Dr.  J.  G.  Shea  has  been  on  our  roll  for  nearly 
thirty-seven  years.  He  devoted  his  life  and  pen  to  researches 
and  historical  compositions  largely  relating  to  French  explora- 
tions and  the  labors  of  Roman  Catholic  missionaries  on  this 
continent.  His  published  works  are  numerous  ;  and  his  fidel- 
ity and  painstaking  in  securing  accuracy  and  thoroughness  in 
the  wide  field  of  his  investigations  placed  him  at  the  head 
of  those  esteemed  by  his  church  for  zeal  in  her  honor  and 
service. 
Gen.  G.  W.  Cullum  died  on  the  28th  of  last  month,  three 
days  after  he  had  entered,  with  unabated  mental  vigor,  on  his 
eighty-third  year.  His  distinguished  military  career  as  chief 
engineer  of  the  United  States  army  was  the  crowning  of  a 
long  professional  life,  from  his  graduating  at  West  Point 
Military  Academy  nearly  sixty  years  ago.  His  first  service 
was  in  the  construction  of  Fort  Adams,  Newport  ;  others  were 
upon  our  own  harbor  defences  and  upon  Fort  Sumter.  He 
was  a  master  of  the  science  of  his  profession,  in  mathematics, 
in  fortifications,  in  engineering,  in  the  construction  of  pontoon 
bridges,  and  as  a  staff-officer  in  the  War  of  Secession.  Travel 
abroad  and  a  wide  range  of  stud}%  guided  and  improved  by 
strong  intellectual  powers,  gave  him  a  breadth  of  culture  and 
information  which  made  him  a  most  instructive  and  attractive 
companion,  and  added  value  to  many  productions  of  his  pen. 
 - 375 - 
332  MASSACHUSETTS  HISTORICAL  SOCIETY.  [Mar. 
After  he  had  finished  his  fourscore  years,  he  revised  and  en- 
larged, with  vast  labor  of  research  and  correspondence,  for  a 
third  edition,  his  Register  of  the  Graduates  of  West  Point,  in 
which  institution  he  had  been  a  professor  and  superintendent. 
He  was  the  Vice-President  and  the  most  efficient  worker  of  the 
American  Geographical  Society.  His  large  fortune  is  judi- 
ciously distributed  to  noble  public  institutions.  It  gives  me 
satisfaction  to  have  this  opportunity  of  paying  a  respectful 
tribute  to  one  whom  I  have  highly  esteemed  as  a  kind  and 
an  attractive  friend  in  an  intimacy  with  him,  and  in  the  enjoy- 
ment of  
his  pleasant  hospitality  during  several  recent  summers 
in  Newport. 
In  conformity  with  a  vote  passed  at  the  last  meeting  of  the 
Society,  Mr.  Roger  Wolcott  communicated  from  the  Coun- 
cil the  following  extracts  from  a  report  made  to  that  body  by 
a  committee,  of  which  Mr.  Charles  F.  Adams  was  chairman,  — 
Mr.  Adams  being  now  in  Europe  :  — 
The  Committee  of  the  Council  to  which  was  referred  at  the 
last  meeting  the  question  of  filling  existing  and  future  vacan- 
cies in  
the  list  of  Resident  Members  of  the  Society  submit  the 
following  report  : — 
It  appears  to  your  Committee  that  it  should  be  borne  in 
mind  that  this  Society  is,  as  its  name  indicates,  primarily  the 
Massachusetts  Historical  Society.  In  other  words,  it  covers 
the  entire  Commonwealth  ;  and  consequently  all  portions  of 
the  Commonwealth  should  to  a  certain  extent  be  represented 
upon  its  list  of  Resident  Members. 
In  the  second  place,  it  is  most  desirable  that,  representing 
as  it  does  the  whole  Commonwealth,  in  the  roll  of  its  members 
should  be  included  the  names  of  any  persons  resident  in  the 
Commonwealth  who  have  distinguished  themselves,  or  in  any 
way  become  eminent,  in  the  field  of  historical  research. 
These  two  elements  in  membership  ought,  in  the  opinion  of 
your  Committee,  to  be  fundamental,  and  all  other  representa- 
tion should  be  introduced  somewhat  in  subordination  thereto. 
In  order  to  present  clearly  the  present  distribution  of 
membership,  so  far  as  the  Commonwealth  is  concerned,  your 
Committee  submit  herewith  a  map  of  the  State,  upon  which 
the  distribution  of  Resident  Members  is  indicated  by  circles 
 - 376 - 
1892.]  REPORT   ON   NEW   MEMBERS.  333 
and  figures.  Of  the  ninety-eight  members  at  present  on  the 
Resident  roll  it  would  appear  that  fifty-eight  reside  east  of 
a  north-and-south  line  in  extension  of  West  Chester  Street  in 
Boston,  and  forty  west  of  that  line.  Of  the  forty  west  of  that 
line,  eighteen  are  residents  of  Cambridge.  Sixty-four  of  the 
ninety-eight  Resident  Members  are  inhabitants  of  either  Boston 
or  Cambridge. 
Of  those  members,  thirty-four  in  all,  not  inhabitants  of 
either  Boston  or  Cambridge,  four  are  from  Worcester  County, 
eight  from  Essex,  seven  from  Middlesex,  eight  from  Norfolk, 
three  from  Plymouth,  and  one  each  from  Suffolk  (Chelsea), 
Berkshire,  Bristol,  and  Hampshire.  Five  counties  in  the 
State  —  Franklin,  Hampshire,  Barnstable,  Dukes,  and  Nan- 
tucket—  are  not  represented  by  any  Resident  Member. 
In  view  of  the  large  concentration  of  population,  wealth, 
and  higher  education  in  Boston  and  its  immediate  vicinit}7,  the 
fact  that  seventy-six  out  of  ninety-eight  Resident  Members  live 
within  a  ten-mile  radius  of  the  Society's  rooms  is  in  itself  no 
fair  subject  for  adverse  criticism.  Natural  causes  would  ob- 
viously dictate  some  such  approximate  result.  Nevertheless, 
while  in  no  way  reflecting  on  such  a  concentration  of  member- 
ship, it  
is,  in  the  judgment  of  your  Committee,  highly  desirable 
that  every  county  in  the  State  should*  have  at  least  one  repre- 
sentative in  
the  list  of  Resident  Members.  It  is  possible  that 
the  counties  of  Barnstable,  Dukes,  and  Nantucket  could  be 
suitably  represented  by  a  single  member  ;  although,  in  the 
case  of  Nantucket  at  least,  there  is  a  sufficient  amount  of 
historical  interest  connected  with  that  island  to  make  it  desir- 
able for  the  Society  to  have  a  local  representative  from  it,  if  a 
suitable  one  could  be  found. 
The  count}7  of  Worcester  also  is  of  such  extent,  and  the 
interests  in  it  are  so  diverse,  that  it  seems  desirable  the 
northern  portion  of  the  county,  of  which  Fitchburg  is  the  half 
county  town,  should  be  adequately  represented,  as  well  as  the 
southern  part  of  the  county,  from  which  there  are  now  three 
Resident  Members,  all  from  the  city  of  Worcester. 
In  order,  therefore,  to  secure  the  Society  a  suitable  geo- 
graphical representation,  it  would  seem  that  Resident  Members 
need  to  be  elected  as  follows  :  one  at  least  from  the  counties 
of  Barnstable,  Dukes,  and  Nantucket  ;  one  more  from  the 
northern  portion  of  Worcester  County  ;  and  one  each  from 
 - 377 - 
334  MASSACHUSETTS   HISTORICAL  SOCIETY.  [Mar. 
Franklin  and  Hampshire  counties,  making,  in  all,  four  Resident 
Members. 
It  has  frequentty  been  argued  that  the  presence  of  members 
residing  at  a  distance  cannot  be  depended  upon  at  the  meet- 
ings of  
the  Society,  and  that  for  that  reason  alone  it  is  desir- 
able that  this  description  of  membership  should  be  limited. 
While  the  argument  to  a  certain  extent  is  undoubtedly  sound, 
yet  the  statistics  of  attendance  prepared  for  the  use  of  the  com- 
mittee would  seem  to  indicate  that  Resident  Members  living  at 
a  distance  from  the  Society  have  on  an  average  been  as  constant 
in  attendance  as  those  dwelling  in  the  immediate  neighborhood. 
For  instance,  the  average  attendance  of  the  large  number  of 
members  resident  in  Boston  has,  during  the  last  three  years, 
been  thirty-seven  per  cent,  and  that  of  those  from  Cambridge 
twenty-eight  per  cent;  while  that  of  the  Society  as  a  whole  has 
been  thirty-five  per  cent,  or  about  the  same.  .  .  .  But,  in  the 
judgment  of  your  Committee,  from  the  present  point  of  view 
the  question  of  attendance  is  immaterial.  Were  it  proposed 
to  elect  a  large  number  of  members  upon  geographical  consid- 
erations alone,  the  argument  from  non-attendance  would  be- 
come all-important.  This  is  not  the  case.  It  is  proposed  to 
elect  members  on  geographical  grounds  simply  to  an  extent 
sufficient  to  secure  the  Society  representation  in  all  the  coun- 
ties of  
the  State,  and  in  this  way  to  control  a  medium  through 
which  to  conduct  correspondence.  Local  events  and  celebra- 
tions of  historical  interest  continually  occur,  and  it  would 
seem  to  the  Committee  most  desirable  that  in  all  such  cases 
the  Society  should  have  Resident  Members  who  would  feel  an 
interest  in  keeping  it  advised  as  to  such  occurrences,  —  per- 
sons who,  in  such  connection,  could  be  corresponded  with  by 
our  officials. 
While  a  review  of  the  present  membership  shows  that,  as  a 
whole,  it  is  fairly  well  selected  and  representative,  yet  any 
analysis  of  it  makes  apparent  the  fact  that  the  selection  has 
not  been  made  in  pursuance  of  any  consistent  plan  or  on  any 
wide  general  views  either  of  the  field  or  the  material  available. 
It  has  to  a  certain  extent  been  matter  of  chance,  or  due  to 
personal  considerations  ;  and  in  some  cases  to  a  natural  un- 
willingness to  
give  possible  offence  by  opposing  the  evident 
desire  of  others. 
It  only  remains  to  say  that  during  the  last  ten  years  (1881- 
 - 378 - 
1892.]  REMARKS   BY   DR.    S.   A.    GREEN.  335 
1890)  forty-six  Resident  Members,  filling  vacancies  caused 
either  by  death  or  resignation,  have  been  elected,  —  indicating 
an  average  election  of  about  five  new  members  each  year  on 
the  Resident  list. 
In  view  of  the  foregoing  facts  and  conclusions,  your  Com- 
mittee would  therefore  recommend  — 
1.  That  in  the  election  of  Resident  Members  in  future 
regard  be  first  paid  to  the  matter  of  proper  geographical 
representation,  to  the  extent  above  indicated  ; 
2.  That  the  eminence  of  candidates,  either  as  historical 
students  and  writers,  or  as  authorities  in  matters  connected 
with  history,  be  next  considered  ;   while,  finally, 
3.  The  list  should  be  filled  by  a  careful  selection  from 
those  who  on  general  grounds,  whether  of  high  public  office 
or  of  professional  or  social  eminence,  merit  recognition,  and 
in  return  would  add  value  and  dignity  to  membership  in  the 
Society. 
The  following  committees  were  appointed,  to  report  at  the 
annual  meeting  in  April :  To  nominate  officers,  Messrs.  Roger 
Wolcott,  Mellen  Chamberlain,  and  Thornton  K.  Lothrop  ;  to 
audit  the  Treasurer's  accounts,  Messrs.  Abbott  Lawrence  and 
Arthur  Lord  ;  to  examine  the  Library  and  Cabinet,  Messrs. 
James  M.  Bugbee,  A.  Lawrence  Lowell,  and  Henry  W. 
Haynes. 
Dr.  Samuel  A.  Green  recalled  the  subject  of  the  Waters- 
Winthrop  map,  and  spoke  as  follows:  — 
Among  the  discoveries  of  great  historical  importance  made 
in  London,  during  the  past  few  years,  by  our  associate  Mr. 
Henry  F.  Waters,  there  is  a  very  early  map  of  the  eastern 
part  of  Massachusetts,  which  on  several  occasions  has  been 
the  subject  of  comment  and  discussion  before  this  Society.  It 
is  in  manuscript,  and  was  found  in  the  Sloane  Collection  of  the 
British  Museum.  The  map  contains  various  marginal  notes 
and  other  memoranda  in  the  handwriting  of  Gov.  John  Win- 
throp,  showing  that  once  it  had  been  in  his  possession,  and 
perhaps  was  made  by  him  ;  
but  unfortunately  there  is  no  date, 
and  the  time  when  it  was  drawn  can  be  conjectured  only  from 
internal  evidence.  The  necessary  inference  from  these  notes 
is  that  they  were   written   while   Winthrop  was   Governor  ; 
 - 379 - 
336  MASSACHUSETTS   HISTORICAL   SOCIETY.  [Mar. 
and  this  fact  throws  out  of  the  question  a  period  of  three 
years,  extending  from  May  14,  1634,  to  May  17,  1637,  when 
Dudley,  Haynes,  and  Vane  were  the  chief  magistrates  of  the 
Colony. 
A  possible  clew  to  its  history  may  be  detected  in  two  refer- 
ences made  in  letters  written  from  England  by  Robert  Ryece 
to  Governor  Winthrop,  and  printed  nearly  thirty  years  ago  in 
a  volume  of  Winthrop  Papers.  (Collections,  fourth  series,  VI.) 
The  first  reference  is  found  in  a  postscript  to  a  letter,  under 
date  of  Sept.  9,  1636,  which  says  :  "  I  praye  you  remember 
the  plott  or  mappe  of  New  Englande  "  (page  409).  This  was 
evidently  intended  by  the  writer  as  a  reminder  of  a  previous 
request,  made  probably  during  their  correspondence,  which 
had  then  been  kept  up  for  some  years.  The  other  reference 
is  contained  in  a  letter,  dated  Jan.  17,  1636-7,  at  Preston, 
from  which  the  following  is  an  extract:  — 
" I   wrotte  also  vnto  you  the  9  of  September  laste,  which  I  hope  maye 
be  safely  come  to  your  hands,  and  I  hope  agayne  by  the  nexte  oppor- 
tunitie,  God  wyllinge,  to  wryte  vnto  you.  I  am  mucbe  beholdinge 
vnto  you  for  your  lettres  and  advertisements,  beinge  very  sory  I  can 
not  now  make  any  requitall  agayne.  I  am  styll  a  bolde  petitioner  to 
you  to  helpe  vs  to  a  mappe  of  your  contry  as  it  is  now  inhabited,  &  is 
ioyned  with  new  plantation  of  Conetticote,  &  yf  wee  lyve,  wee  hope  to 
be  very  thankefull  for  the  same  "  (page  394). 
Robert  Ryece,  the  writer  of  these  letters,  was  a  well-known 
antiquary  of  Suffolk  County  in  England,  and  an  intimate 
friend  of  the  Winthrop  family.  Urgent  appeals  from  such  a 
source,  like  those  just  given,  would  not  be  likely  to  pass  un- 
heeded ;  
and  without  much  doubt  the  request  was  granted, 
thougli  probably  not  until  after  Winthrop  was  chosen  Gover- 
nor in  the  spring  of  1637,  which  would  have  been  near  the 
time  when  the  last  letter  was  received.  Ryece  died  on  Sept.  15, 
1638  ;  so  that  in  any  event,  if  this  theory  be  correct,  the  map 
was  sent  not  later  than  that  year.  He  was  a  noted  collector 
of  antiquities,  and  in  his  hands  a  plan  of  Massachusetts  so  far 
as  the  territory  was  then  settled,  and  drawn  with  such  care 
from  original  sources,  would  have  been  highly  prized,  and 
would  have  stood  a  good  chance  of  final  preservation.  For 
many  years  there  has  been  in  the  British  Museum  a  manuscript 
which  is  said  to  have  been  compiled  by  him,  entitled  "  A 
 - 380 - 
1892.]  REMARKS   BY  DR.   S.   A.   GREEN.  337 
Breviary  of  Suffolk,"  and  bearing  date  Feb.  9,  1618.  My 
authority  for  the  statement  is  McKeon's  "  Inquiry  relating  to 
the  Parish  of  Lavenham,"  as  quoted  on  page  72  of  the  Ap- 
pendix to  the  "  Memorial  of  Samuel  Appleton."  (Boston  : 
MDCCCL.)  This  fact  shows  that  after  Ryece's  death  one  of 
his  own  works  drifted  eventually  into  the  library  of  the  British 
Museum  ;  and  it  is  easy  to  suppose  that  some  of  his  other 
manuscripts  may  have  taken  a  similar  course,  and  found  their 
way  ultimately  into  the  same  collection,  though  perhaps  at  a 
different  time. 
An  interesting  feature  of  the  map  is  that  the  names  of  the 
towns,  rivers,  and  ponds,  as  there  given,  are  written  in  a  small 
plain  hand,  which  does  not  seem  to  be  Winthrop's.  These 
were  written  when  the  map  was  drawn,  while  the  marginal 
notes  and  other  memoranda  were  evidently  added  at  a  later 
period  and  with  another  pen.  Throwing  these  notes  out  of 
the  case,  there  is  no  evidence  on  which  to  place  the  date  with 
any  certainty  later  than  1633  ;  
but  taking  the  notes  into  con- 
sideration, independently  of  any  previous  request,  there  is 
good  reason  to  refer  the  time  when  it  was  sent  to  England  to 
1637  or  1638,  with  the  probability  in  favor  of  the  earlier  year. 
The  allusions  in  Ryece's  letters  are  somewhat  unsatisfactory, 
but  yet  they  throw  a  glimmer  of  side-light  on  the  question. 
They  seem  to  justify  the  conclusion  that  Governor  Winthrop, 
agreeably  to  the  request  of  his  correspondent,  sent  a  map 
made  several  years  before,  though  it  did  not  meet  all  the  re- 
quirements ;  
and  at  the  same  time  he  availed  himself  of  the 
opportunity  to  add  a  few  notes  which  he  thought  would  be 
of  interest  to  his  friends  at  home. 
My  attention  has  just  been  called  this  afternoon  by  Mr. 
Waters  to  an  interesting  entry  found  on  page  153  of  the 
"  Calendar  of  State  Papers,  Colonial  Series,  1574-1660  "  (Lon- 
don, 1860),  which  may  possibly  have  some  connection  with 
this  question.  In  that  volume,  under  date  of  June  28,  1632, 
is  recorded  the  following  :  — 
"  Mr.  Saltingstall  [is]  desired  to  make  a  map  of  Salem  and  Massachu- 
setts Bay  
for  the  Council  [for  New  England]." 
At  that  time  Sir  Richard  Saltonstall  was  already  in  Eng- 
land, and  never  returned  to  Massachusetts,  though  it  is  sup- 
43 
 - 381 - 
338  MASSACHUSETTS  HISTORICAL  SOCIETY.  [Mar. 
posed  that  he  intended  to  come  back,  as  on  May  29,  1633,  he 
was  chosen  an  Assistant  of  the  Colony  by  the  General  Court. 
Perhaps  the  allusion  is  to  his  eldest  son,  then  in  Water- 
town.  It  is  possible  that  under  that  action  a  draft  was  made, 
which  may  have  been  the  original  of  the  Waters- Winthrop 
map,  now  under  consideration.  A  comparison  of  Sir  Rich- 
ard's handwriting  or  his  son's  with  that  found  on  the  map 
might  be  of  help  in  solving  the  problem. 
Dr.  Green's  remarks  were  followed  by  a  brief  discussion  on 
the  part  of  Mr.  Henry  F.  Waters,  who  was  inclined  to  think 
the  map  may  have  been  traced  from  an  earlier  original  ;  and 
of  the  Hon.  Mellen  Chamberlain,  who  carefully  investi- 
gated the  date  of  the  map  when  a  copy  was  first  procured  for 
the  Boston  Public  Library,  but  was  not  able  to  arrive  at  a 
definite  conclusion  on  the  matter. 
Rev.  Edward  G.  Porter  then  said  : — 
I  have  recently  found  an  interesting  little  document  1  in  the 
handwriting  of  Ezra  Stiles,  the  President  of  Yale  College  in 
the  last  century.  It  is  the  diary  of  a  journey  which  he  made 
on  horseback  from  New  Haven  to  Philadelphia  and  back  in 
the  autumn  of  1754.  He  had  been  only  eight  years  out  of 
college,  during  which  time  he  had  studied  divinity,  preached 
to  the  Stockbridge  Indians,  performed  important  experiments 
in  electricity,  and  been  admitted  to  the  bar.  At  the  time  of 
writing  this  diary  he  was  practising  law  in  New  Haven  ;  and 
in  the  following  year  he  delivered  a  Latin  oration  upon  the 
occasion  of  Franklin's  visit  to  the  college. 
Mr.  Stiles  was  a  keen  observer  and  an  accurate  writer  ;  and 
his  quaint  narrative  of  the  places  he  visited  and  the  people  he 
saw  will,  I  think,  deserve  a  place  in  our  Proceedings.  I  will 
add  a  few  explanatory  notes. 
1754,  Sepf  20.  Began  journey.  Set  out  from  New  Haven  abo't 
i  after  10.  Din'd  at  Mad.  Laws.2  Lodgd  at  Fairfield.  Spent  even- 
ing at  
Mr  Hobart's.8 
1  In  the  possession  of  Rev.  Jonathan  Leavitt  Jenkins,  D.D.,  of  Pittsfield,  a 
great-grandson  of  President  Stiles. 
2  Widow  of  Jonathan  Law,  late  Governor  of  Connecticut,  whose  residence  was 
at  Milford. 
3  Rev.  Noah  Hobart,  pastor  at  Fairfield,  1733-1773. 
 - 382 - 
1892.]  DIARY   OF   EZRA   STILES.  339 
21.  Breakfasted  at  Belding's,  Norwalk.  Dined  at  Meads,  Horse- 
neck.     Lodged  at  Kingsbridge. 
22.  Arrived  at  N.  Y. ;  put  up  at  Dibbles.  Went  to  New  Eng. 
Chh.  ; 1  
heard  Mr  Barclay.2  Afternoon  went  to  Old  Dutch  Chh.  ;3  
heard 
the  eloquent  Mr  de  Ronde  ; 4  after  meeting  met  Mr  Ketteltas.5  Drank 
tea  with  him  at  his  house.     Lodged  there  with  him. 
23.  Morning  went  to  view  the  Market,  Mr  Noels  shop  ;  
bot  Curiosity, 
&c.,  2  
/.  Gave  at  chh.  /6.  Went  to  see  Old  Eng.  Chh.,6  &  view  the  monu- 
ments in  
the  chh.  yard.  At  Mr  Murrays  ;  Synagogue,7  &  there  saw 
the  perpetual  lamp,  &c.  ;  the  Fort  &  Half  Moon  Battery,  in  which 
stands  the  Govrs  house  &  the  Barracks  ;  thence  to  Exchange,8  thence 
to  Mr    -,  musician,  &  heard  him  with  Mr  Ketteltas  play  on  violin 
most  charmingly,  &  on  the  spinet  &  organ.  Dined  at  Mr  Biars  with 
three  Philada  ladies  ;  an  elegant  entertainment.  Thence  met  at  Mr 
Ketteltas,  &  walkd  with  Mr  Wickham  9  on  into  the  Comon  ; 10  drank 
bottle  of  mead  ;  thence  to  the  New  Dutch  Chh.,11  &  from  the  steeple 
took  prospect  of  the  city.  Waited  on  Mr  Smith,  &c,  &  in  evening 
a  most  elegant  collation  at  Mr  Wm  Livingston's  12  with  Mr  Scott,13  &  Mr 
Smith,14  &  Hilhouse,15  &  Wickham,  &  Ketteltas  ;  supped,  &  settled 
politics  over  a  generous  bottle.     Lodged  at  Mr  Ketteltas's. 
24.  In  morning  took  horses,  &  with  Mr  Ketteltas  &  3  other  Dutch 
gent,  took  boat,  &  sailed  9  miles  across  to  Staten  Island,  on  which  we 
road,  till  crossing  a  small  ferry,  we  arrived  at  Elizabeth  Town  Point. 
Dined  at  Eliza  Town.     Arrived  at  Newark  about  3  aft.     Waited  on 
i  St.  George's  Chapel,  corner  of  Cliff  and  Beekraan  Streets,  built  in  1752. 
2  Henry  Barclay,  D.D.,  Rector  of  Trinity. 
3  The  South  Dutch  Church,  in  Garden  Street.  Built  in  1696;  destroyed  in 
the  great  fire  of  December,  1835. 
4  Rev.  Lambertus  de  Ronde,  successor  of  the  venerable  Du  Bois. 
5  Peter  Ketteltas  (or  Keteltas),  a  wealthy  merchant  of  literary  taste.  Abra- 
ham Keteltas  had  graduated  at  Yale  two  years  before,  and  became  a  clergyman 
of  the  Reformed  Dutch  Church,  and  a  zealous  patriot. 
6  Trinity,  built  1696  ;  
burned  1776. 
7  A  stone  edifice  in  Mill  Street,  built  1730. 
8  At  the  foot  of  Broad  Street.     Erected  1752. 
9  Probably  William  Wickham  (Yale,  1753),  afterward  a  member  of  the 
"Moot,"  —  a  famous  coterie  of  lawyers. 
10  Near  the  present  City  Hall. 
11  The  Middle  Dutch  Church  in  Nassau  Street  ;  
built  1729.  In  1844  bought  by 
the  United  States  for  a  post-office. 
12  The  well-known  lawyer;  afterward  Deputy  to  the  Continental  Congress, 
and  the  first  Governor  of  the  State  of  New  Jersey. 
13  John  Morin  Scott,  a  classmate  of  Stiles,  and  one  of  the  Sons  of  Liberty. 
14  William  Smith  (Yale,  1745),  a  member  of  the  "Moot  ";  later,  Chief-Justice 
of  Canada  and  Historian  of  New  York. 
15  Perhaps  James  Abraham  Hillhouse,  then  tutor  at  Yale,  who  seems  to  have 
accompanied  Stiles  on  this  journey,  sharing  the  expenses. 
 - 383 - 
340  MASSACHUSETTS  HISTORICAL  SOCIETY.  [Mar. 
President  Burr.1     Went  to  prayers,  after  which  2  young  gent,  of  the 
college  2  acted  Tamerlane  S?  Bajazet,  &c.     Lodged  with.  Mr  Badger. 
25.  Comencement  ;  waited  on  Mr  Pres*  Burr,  &  viewed  the  college 
library.  Went  to  meeting,  where  saw  a  most  splendid  assembly  of 
gentlemen  &  ladies.  In  the  forenoon  heard  the  exercises,  after  which 
Sr  Shippen  3  pronounced  an  ingenious  oration.  Afternoon,  Mr  Presi- 
dent began  the  exercises  with  a  learned  oration.  Degrees  conferred  ; 
among  others,  degree  of  A.M.  on  Revd  Mr  Whitefield,4  who  sat  with 
Govr  Belcher  5  
in  pew.  Both  forenoon  &  afternoon  as  the  procession 
entered,  &  again  when  they  went  out  of  the  meeting  house,  anthems 
were  sung  very  melodiously  by  a  chorus  of  men  &  women  in  the  gallery. 
About  half  an  hour  after  academic  exercises,  Mr  Whitefield,  mounted 
on  a  stage  by  the  Court  House,  preached  a  sermon  in  open  air  to  a 
large  auditory  from  Luke  1.  15.  Saw  Cousin  Smith.  Waited  on  Mr 
Dumeld,6  and  lodged  with  Mr  Badger. 
26.  Breakfasted  with  Mr  Dumeld.  Rode  to  Mr  Alison7  (Rector  of 
Philada  Academy)  his  lodgings,  who  wrote  three  letters  by  us  to  gen* 
at  Philada,  reconiend7.  Journeyed  thro  Elizabeth  Town  &  Raway. 
Oated  at  Woodbridge,  —  fine,  agreeable  country.  Passed  the  Ferry,  & 
dined  at  Brunswick.  Saw  a  dwarf  woman,  about  3  feet  high.  Passed 
Kingstown.  Lodged  in  Princetown,  &  viewed  the  foundation  of  the 
College  House.8 
27.  Rose  about  3  in  the  morning,  &  set  off  about  an  hour  before 
break  of  day.  Entered  &  passed  through  Maidenhead  a  little  after 
break  of  day,  &  breakfasted  at  Trentown,  —  after  having  been  lost  ; 
arrived  safe  &  dined  at  Bristol  (opposite  Burlington)  ,  where  saw  a 
monkey.  Met  Mr  Franklin  (son9).  Passed  thro'   Lower  Dublin,  & 
oated  at  Oxford.  Arrived  at  Philad.  About  sunset  put  up  at  Bidwells, 
sign  of  Indian  King. 
28.  In  morning  went  into  Market.  Visited  Academy.  Mr  Alison, 
Mastr  Lat.  School,  £200  ;  
Mr   Eben   Kinnersly,10  Mastr  Eng.  School, 
1  Aaron  Burr  the  elder,  pastor  at  Newark,  1738-1756  ;  
died  at  Princeton,  1757. 
2  The  College  of  New  Jersey,  founded  at  Elizabeth  Town,  1746  ;  removed  to 
Newark,  1747  ;  and  to  Princeton,  1757. 
3  William  Shippen,  Jr.,  M.D.,  Founder  and  Professor  of  the  Medical  School, 
College  of  Philadelphia. 
4  The  noted  evangelist. 
5  Governor  of  Massachusetts  and  New  Hampshire,  1730-1741  ;  of  New  Jersey, 
1747-1757.     Chief  patron  of  the  College  of  New  Jersey. 
6  Rev.  George  Duffield,  D.D.,  Chaplain  in  the  Revolution. 
7  Francis  Allison,  D.D.,  classical  scholar  ;  
first  teacher  of  Philadelphia  Acad- 
emy ;  
Vice-Provost  of  the  college;  pastor  First  Presbyterian  Church  of 
Philadelphia. 
8  See  note  1,  p.  343. 
9  William  Franklin,  son  of  Benjamin,  afterward  the  last  Royal  Governor  of 
New  Jersey. 
10  Dr.  Kinnersley,  the  friend  of  Franklin  and  Thomas  Hopkinson,  the  first  lee- 
 - 384 - 
1892.]  DIARY   OF  EZRA  STILES.  341 
£150;  Mr  Theoph.  Grew,  Math.  Mastr,  £120;  Mr  Creamer,  Mastr 
French  &  Italian  &  Dutch  &  Drawing,  £100  ;  
Mr  Smith,1  Mastr  of 
Phil.,  Math.,  &  Moral.  Orators,  —  Wm  Kinnersley,  Henry  Merchant, 
Henry  Benbridge,  Thos  Bond,  Rob*  Jones,  Jasper  Yeates.  Pastoral 
Speakers,  —  Andrew  Hamlinton  &  Wm  Hamlinton,'2  Jn°  Okill.  Morne. 
waited  on  Mr  Kennersly;  he  went  with  us  to  the  Court  House, 
where  ye  Supreme  Court  was  sitting ;  heard  Mr  Francis,8  Attorney 
General,  and  Mr  Moland  plead  a  cause  to  the  jury.  The  Court  House 
the  most  magnificent  edifice  4  I  ever  saw.  Afternoon  waited  on  Mr 
Cross.  Walkd  in  Mr  Pemberton's  5  gardens.  View  the  stocking 
frame  knitting  machine  in  Arch  Street,  —  a  most  curious  invention  ! 
Walkd  to  Mr  Kennersly's.  View'd  the  Academy  apartments  ; 6  heard 
Mr  Duchee/  a  young  gentleman,  reading  philosophy  under  Mr  Smith, 
pronounce  Prologue  of  Cato,  &c,  &  young  Mr  Kennersly  (about  11 
setat.),  &c.  Went  up,  &  from  top  of  the  Academy  viewed  the  city  of 
Phila,  in  which  are  churches  ;  viz.,  the  Eng.  Chh.,  the  Presbyte- 
rian Chh.,  the  Dutch  Lutheran  Chh.,  Dutch  Calvinistic  Chh.,  Baptist 
Chh.,  Mr  Tennants8  new  Presbyt.  Chh.,  Papist  Chappel,  3  Quaker 
meetings,  Morav.  View'd  the  rods  &  wires  which  defend  the  Acad- 
emy House  from  lightning.  Viewed  the  bells,  &c,  in  Mr  Kennerslys 
house  &  electric  rod.  Waited  on  Mr  Stergeon  &  Chief  Justice  Ailing.9 
Walked  in  the  Coffee  House.10  Spent  evening  at  our  lodgings  with 
Mr  Kennersly. 
turer  on  "  The  Newly  Discovered  Electrical  Fire,"  Sept.  21, 1752 ,  
in  the  State 
House  at  Philadelphia.  He  soon  after  went  to  Boston  by  invitation  of  James 
Bowdoin,  and  repeated  the  course  in  Faneuil  Hall,  and  afterward  at  Newport. 
His  fame  extended  widely  over  Europe. 
1  Dr.  William  Smith,  just  arrived  from  Scotland,  the  first  Provost  of  the 
college. 
2  Andrew  and  William,  sons  of  Andrew  Hamilton  2d,  a  brother  of  Lieut.- 
Gov.  James  Hamilton. 
3  Tench  Francis,  Sen.,  Recorder  in  the  Mayor's  Court,  King's  Attorney, 
Trustee  of  the  Academy. 
4  Not  the  Old  Court  House  in  Market  Street,  but  the  State  House,  then 
recently  finished. 
5  Clarke  Hall,  southwest  corner  of  Chestnut  and  Third  Streets,  the  residence 
of  the  early  Governors;  bought  by  Israel  Pemberton,  Sen.,  the  eminent  Quaker, 
1745;  famous  for  its  garden-walks  and  shrubbery,  clipped  in  the  artificial  style 
then  prevalent  in  Europe. 
6  On  Fourth  Street,  near  Mulberry  Street  ;  
built,  1741,  for  Whitefield's  meet- 
ings ;  
bought  by  Franklin  and  others,  in  1749,  for  academy  purposes  ;  created  a 
college,  1753  ;  the  University  of  Pennsylvania,  1779. 
7  The  Rev.  Jacob  Duche,  Jr.,  a  graduate  of  the  first  college  class,  1757  :  Chap- 
lain for  a  time  to  the  Continental  Congress. 
8  The  Rev.  Gilbert  Tennent,  one  of  four  clerical  brothers.  His  church  was 
on  the  northwest  corner  of  Third  and  Arch  Streets. 
9  William  Allen,  son-in-law  of  Andrew  Hamilton,  1st;  Mayor,  1735;  Chief 
Justice,  1751-1774. 
10  Perhaps  the  London  Coffee  House,  corner  of  Front  and  Market  Streets,  a 
famous  resort  about  this  time. 
 - 385 - 
342  MASSACHUSETTS   HISTORICAL  SOCIETY.  [Mar. 
29.     Went   to       Chappel  ;    
heard    Mr    Harding    the    Jesuit. 
Dined  at  Chief  Justice  Alling's.  Went  aft.  to  Presbyterian  meeting  ; 
heard  Revd  Mr  Alison  ;  
drunk  tea  with  him  at  Mr  Cross's.  Evening 
went  to  Quaker  meeting,  &  waited  on  Mr  Sturgeon  in  compa  with 
Mr  Pinto  &  Mr  Duche  ;    supped  there. 
30.  Breakfasted  at  Dr  Shippen's,  &C.1  Attorney's  names  :  Mr 
Francis,  Kings  attorney;  Mr  Ross ;  
Moland  ;  
Galloway ; 2  
Chew ; 3  
Ottoway 
fr.  Lond.  ;  
Mr  Shippen,4  Prothonotary  of  Supreme  Court  ;  .  .  .  
Jn°  Price. 
In  morning  went  to  Mr  Franklin's  office  5  &  viewed  the  Old  Chh.6 
After  breakfast  Mess18  Jos.  &  Wm  Shippen  accompanied  us  to  Springs- 
bury,7  where  passing  a  long  spacious  walk,  set  on  each  side  with  trees, 
on  the  summit  of  a  gradual  ascent,  we  saw  the  proprietor's  house  ; 
&  walkt  in  the  gardens,  where  besides  the  beautiful  walk,  ornamented 
with  evergreens,  we  saw  fruit  trees  with  plenty  of  fruit,  some  green, 
some  ripe,  &  some  in  the  blossom  on  the  same  trees.  The  fruit  was 
oranges,  limes,  limons,  &  citrons.  In  the  hot  house  was  a  curious  ther- 
mometer of  
spirits  &  mercury.  Spruce  hedges  cut  into  beautiful  figures, 
&c,  all  forming  the  most  agreeable  variety,  &  even  regular  confusion 
&  disorder. 
We  then  walk  thro'  a  spacious  way  into  the  wood  behind  &  adjoyning 
to  the  gardens,  the  whole  scene  most  happily  accomodated  for  solitude 
and  rural  contemplation.  Thence  we  walkt  to  Govr  Hamlinton's  seat.8 
Took  a  walk  in  his  very  elegant  garden,  in  which  are  7  statues  in  fine 
Italian  marble  curiously  wrot  ;  
invited  into  his  house  ;  viewed  the  very 
splendid  &  grand  apartments  magnificently  decorated  &  adorned  with 
curious  paintings,  hangings,  &  statuary,  &  marble  tablets,  &c.  After 
viewing  these  curious  prospects  we  passed  by  the  Center  House  &  re- 
turned into  town  ;  ascended  the  turret  9  of  the  State  House,  &  thence 
1  Dr.  William  Shippen,  Sen.,  one  of  Franklin's  junto,  a  founder  of  the  college 
and  hospital,  member  of  the  Continental  Congress,  thirty  years  trustee  of  Prince- 
ton College. 
2  Joseph  Galloway,  Franklin's  friend,  speaker  of  the  Assembly,  member  of  the 
Congress  of  1774. 
3  Benjamin  Chew  of  Cliveden,  Attorney-General,  Councillor,  Recorder,  Chief 
Justice,  the  friend  of  Washington  and  John  Adams. 
4  Edward  Shippen,  3d,  a  noted  lawyer,  Provincial  Councillor,  Chief  Justice. 
5  Franklin's  house  was  at  the  southeast  corner  of  Race  and  Second  Streets. 
6  Probably  Christ  Church  in  Second  Street,  whose  lofty  steeple  had  just  been 
added. 
7  Springettsbury,  a  fine  country-seat  of  the  Penns,  west  of  Bush  Hill,  near 
Fairmount,  named  for  William  Penn's  first  wife,  a  daughter  of  Sir  William 
Springett. 
8  Bush  Hill,  a  part  of  the  manor  of  Springettsbury,  near  Fairmount,  a  stately 
mansion  built  by  Andrew  Hamilton,  1740,  and  at  this  time  the  property  of  his 
son  James,  the  governor. 
9  The  steeple  and  bell  had  just  been  added. 
 - 386 - 
1892.]                                 DIARY  OF   EZRA   STILES.                                 343 
took  a  full  prospect  of  the  city.  Retired  &  drank  a  glass  wine  & 
water  at  Mr  Shippens,  &  waited  on  Mr  Kinnersley,  who  shewed  his 
curious  electrical  apparatus,  with  sundry  experiments,  &c.  Dined  at 
Dr  Shippens  in  an  elegant,  social,  &  genteel  manner.  Waited  on 
Mr    . 
Mounted  our  horses,  took  leave  of  the  gentlemen  who  had  thus  so 
kindly  accompanied  us  about  4  clock.  Bot  pair  stockings  in  Arch 
Street.  Made  our  farewell  compliments  to  Mr  Alison,  &  left  Philada 
about  5  clock  afternoon,  &  arrived  at   Bristol  abo't  \  after  eight  in 
evening,  where  we   lodged.      N.  B.     Shewed  Mr  Kinnersly  Mr    
Poem  on  the  Spring,  who  was  so  well  pleased  with  it  that  he  requested 
me  to  leave  it  with  him  for  the  use  of  his  young  orators. 
Octr  1.  Breakfasted  at  Ferry.  Viewed  the  foundation  &  plan  of 
college  at  Princetown,1  177  f.  long  &  53§  f.  wide. 
PLAN  N.   JERSEY   COLLEGE,    PRINCETOWN. 
177  feet  long. 
[All 
38 
E 
3 
The  Atria  10  feet  each. 
Rob*  Morris,2  Esqr,  Govr  in  Chief  of  Pennsylvania,  set  out  from 
Brunswick  for  Philadelphia  with  a  splendid  retinue  of  near  50  gen- 
tlemen to  accompany  him.  Arrived  at  Woodbridge  before  7  clock, 
where  we  put  up.  Journeyed  this  day  50  miles.  Mem.  Anthony 
Lamb  in  N.  Y.,  near  Cruger's  wharf,  near  Mr  Carpenter's  market. 
1  Nassau  Hall,  completed  in  1757  ;  
the  largest  stone  edifice  then  in  America. 
It  served  as  a  model  for  University  Hall  at  Providence,  1790.  This  plan  is  drawn 
three  times  in  the  diary,  the  painstaking  writer  evidently  wishing  to  have  it 
accurate. 
2  Robert  Hunter  Morris,  on  his  way  to  assume  the  functions  of  his  office  two 
days  later  at  Philadelphia. 
 - 387 - 
344  MASSACHUSETTS   HISTORICAL   SOCIETY.  [Mar. 
2.  Breakfasted  at  Eliza  Town.  Dined  at  N.  Y.  Evening  went  to 
Synagogue  &  heard  prayers  ;  then  went  to  evening  lecture  at  Old 
Dutch  &  heard  Mr  de  Ronde.  Bot  Blackwall's  Classics,1  2  vf  8V0  a  12/. 
Lodged  at  Mr  Ketteltas's.     Young's  Love  of  Fame,  4/6.     Onania,  3/. 
3.  Waited  on  Mr  Scott.  Bot  Ld  Forbes2  Works,  2  v.  12  @  11/. 
Dined  at  Mr  Ketteltas's.  Waited  upon  Mr  Scott  ;  spent  afternoon  with 
him  ;  stated  Mr  Darling's  case.  Bot  eye  glass,  6/.  Spent  evening 
at  Mr  Smiths,  in  compa  Messrs  Phillip  &  Wm  Livingston,  Scott  Hil- 
house,  &  Ketteltas.     Supped,  &c.     Lodged  at  Mr  Ketteltas's. 
4.  Rose  about  5  mane  ;  breakfasted  at  Cregier's,  about  4  miles  out 
of  ye  city  ;  accompanied  thither  by  kind  Mr  Ketteltas.  Dined  at  Me- 
marneck.     Lodged  at  Stamford.     Waited  on  Mr  Welles. 
5.  Breakfasted  at  Belding's,  Nor  walk.  Dined  at  Mr  Thad8  Burrs,3 
and  arrived  at  college  in  evening. 
Mr.  President,  I  have  here  another  little  fragment  from 
the  same  source,  giving  a  list  of  presents  received  by  Mr. 
Stiles  during  a  part  of  his  ministry  at  Newport,  Rhode  Island. 
It  is  entitled  "  Mem0  of  Gratuities,"  and  embraces  the  period 
from  -October,  1759,  to  October,  1763. 
It  is  interesting  as  showing  the  income  of  a  clergyman  in 
those  days,  both  in  cash  and  in  kind.  With  his  usual  preci- 
sion, Mr.  Stiles  puts  down,  — 
Incomes  of  Tear  ending  Ocf.  22,  1760. 
£65  salary  @  26  for  1     £1690  t-  - 
Presents                                                                                469  7  - 
Loose  money  contrib~      59  5  8 
Wedding  fees  &  fun1,  gloves       55  -  - 
Sale  law  books                                                                      38  -  - 
£2311    12    8 
Exch*  @  26  for  1,  abot                 £90  ster. 
Wood  at  abot                                                                             15 
Incomes  this  year          £105  ster. 
In  his  account  for  the  next  year  he  figures  his  "  incomes  " 
at  <£110  sterling,  and  puts  exchange  at  thirty  for  one.     In 
1  The  Sacred  Classics  defended  and  illustrated,  by  Antony  Blackwall.  Lond. 
1727. 
2  The  Rt.  Hon.  Duncan  Forbes,  Lord  President  of  the  Court  of  Session,  d. 
1747.  His  *  Works  "  were  published  soon  after,  containing  :  1.  A  Letter  to  a 
Bishop;  2.  Some  Thoughts  concerning  Religion;  3.  Reflections  on  the  Sources 
of  Incredulity. 
8  Fairfield.  It  was  at  Mr.  Burr's  house  that  John  Hancock  and  Dorothy 
Quincy  were  married  in  1775. 
 - 388 - 
1892.]  REMARKS  BY  THE  HON.   JR.   C.   WINTHROP.  345 
1762  and  1763   exchange    was    thirty-two    for  one,  showing 
how  the  bills  of  Rhode  Island  had  depreciated. 
Among  the  presents  he  received  from  his  parishioners,  I 
select  the  following  at  random  :  — 
Gov.  Ellery,  a  load  hay,  J  bush,  onions,  1  gall,  molass,  turkey, 
2  cheses,  pd  my  part  journey  expenses  ;  
Major  Otis,  2  V  gloves,  1  bb. 
syder,  pork ;  
Mrs  Vernon,  llb  chocol.  ;  
Mrs  Jos.  Hamond,  butter,  pota- 
toes, eggs,  pumpkins,  goose;  M18  Coggeshal  (Thos),  llb  tea;  Kendal 
Nicols,  Esqr,  1  pigg,  turkey  ;  Mrs  Gardner,  raisins,  butter,  sparib,  a 
baise  red  petticoat,  alapuca  for  Ezra  ;  
Mr  Chesebro,  a  hog,  76lb,  1  doll, 
for  sermon  on  Jn°  3.  3  ;  
Mrs  Bill  Ellery,  2  fowls,  chese,  J  doz.  nut- 
megs, cloke,  gloves  ;  
Mrs  Trevot,  J  
doz.  wine,  1  gall,  do.,  almonds,  rai- 
sins ;  
Capt.  Sherburne,  1  chese,  loin  veal  ;  
Mr  Ben  Ellery,  chese,  20lb 
tobacco  ;  Mr  Stelle,  2  qts  Geneva,  milk  ;  
Mr  All,  2  ^  gloves  ;  Capt. 
Jn°  Nicolls,  a  firkin  Irish  butter  ;  
black  cloth  coat  &  breeches  &  velvet 
jacket  &  breeches,  being  pulpit  mourning  for  the  King  ;  
Major  Rogers, 
funl  gloves;  do.,  Mr  Arnold's  wedg;  Mr  Channing,  \  doz.  bottle  Ma- 
deira ;  
Mrs  Peck,  bottle  oyl,  &  sugar  ;  Mr  Jones,  stone  ring  ;  
Mr  Otis,  1 \ 
doz.  pipes  ;  Mr  Saltonstal,  2  f  wede  gloves  ,•  
Mr  Wra  Vernon,  llb  bohea, 
\  hyson;  Mrs  King,  yd.  \\  holl.  &  thread;  Mrs  Dennis,  a  Gamon  ; 
Mr  Ellery  1  ■&  pins,  pork ;  Messrs  Sayer  &  Dennis,  proc.  for  journey 
to  Connect;  Mrs  Chesebro,  lawn.&  lace,  capuchin  for  Betsey  ;  
Mrs  Ar- 
nold, sweetmeats   ;  Capt.  Chh,  2  gall,  rum,  1  case  do.  ;  Deac.  Pitmans 
fun!,  ^  gloves.    Add  Mr  Wilson's  legacy,  £50  ster. 
The  Hon.  Robert  C.  Winthrop  said  :  — 
There  seem,  Mr.  President,  to  be  a  few  minutes  left  before 
our  usual  hour  of  adjournment,  and  I  may  be  pardoned  for 
taking  advantage  of  them.  Let  me  first  read  to  the  Society 
an  inscription  on  the  monument  to  the  Baron  De  Kalb,  which 
has  been  sent  to  me  by  our  associate  member,  Mr.  Edwin  L. 
Bynner,  who,  I  am  sorry  to  say,  is  in  delicate  health,  and  has 
been  obliged  to  seek  refuge  from  our  March  winds  in  warmer 
climates.  In  his  rambles  at  Camden,  South  Carolina,  where 
he  is  now  staying,  he  met  with  this  monument  to  De  Kalb,  of 
which  the  corner-stone  was  laid  by  Lafayette  in  1825.  The 
inscription  is  as  follows  :  — 
[South  Side] 
Here  lie  the  remains  of  Baron  De  Kalb,  a  German  by  birth,  but 
in  principle  a  citizen  of  the  world. 
44 
 - 389 - 
346  MASSACHUSETTS  HISTORICAL  SOCIETY.  [Mar. 
[  
West  Side.] 
He  was  second  in  command  in  the  battles  fought  near  Camden  on 
the  16th  Aug*,  1780,  between  the  British  and  Americans,  and  there 
nobly  fell  covered  with  wounds  while  gallantly  performing  deeds  of 
valor  in  rallying  the  friends  and  opposing  the  enemies  of  his  adopted 
country. 
[North  Side.] 
In  gratitude  for  his  zeal  and  service  the  citizens  of  Camden  have 
erected  this  monument. 
[East  Side.] 
His  love  of  liberty  induced  him  to  leave  the  old  world  to  aid  the 
citizens  of  the  new  in  their  struggle  for  independence,  his  distinguished 
talents  and  many  virtues  weighed  with  Congress  to  appoint  him  Major- 
General  in  the  Revolutionary  Army. 
On  the  stone  which  is  directly  over  the  remains,  hidden  from 
view  by  the  base,  is  inscribed  :  — 
"  This  stone  was  placed  over  the  remains  of  Baron  De  Kalb  by 
General  Lafayette,  1825." 
And  now  let  me  say,  Mr.  President,  that  my  primary  pur- 
pose in  coming  here  this  afternoon  was  that  I  might  be  in  the 
way  of  uniting  with  the  Society  in  doing  homage  to  our  valued 
and  venerable  associate,  Dr.  Lucius  R.  Paige,  on  his  having 
reached  his  ninetieth  birthday,  and  of  offering  him  my  per- 
sonal felicitations  on  his  having  safely  entered  another  decade 
of  life.  I  will  not  call  it  the  last  decade  ;  
for  we  all  hope 
that,  in  the  good  providence  of  God,  he  may  live  to  be  the 
first  centenarian  in  our  ranks.  We  have  never  had  one,  I 
believe.  We  all  know,  however,  how  very  uncertain  life  is 
at  such  an  age  as  his. 
Centenarians  are  not  often  to  be  met  with  anywhere.  I 
walked  in  a  procession  with  one  —  Dr.  Holyoke,  of  Salem  — 
sixty-four  years  ago  ;  
but  I  have  seen  none  since.  The  ven- 
erable Charles  Cleveland  —  a  near  relative  of  the  late  Presi- 
dent of  
the  United  States,  and  who  was  one  of  the  most 
unwearied  visitors  of  the  poor  while  I  was  president  of  the 
Boston  Provident  Association  —  wrote  a  hymn  for  his  own 
hundredth  birthday,  and  kindly  sent  me  a  copy  of  it.  But  I 
attended  his  funeral  a  fortnight  before  he  had  reached  the 
date.  I  had  a  most  interesting  interview  with  Paine  Wingate, 
the  last  survivor  of  the  first  Senate  of  the  United  States,  when 
 - 390 - 
1892.]  REMARKS  BY  THE  HON.   R.   C.    WINTHROP.  347 
he  was  on  the  verge  of  his  ninety-ninth  year,  but  he  died 
before  he  had  finished  his  century.1 
Within  a  few  weeks  past  my  venerated  friend,  Henry  Hill, 
lone:  known  as  the  Treasurer  of  the  American  Board  of  Com- 
missioners  for  Foreign  Missions,  and  who  gave  every  promise 
of  completing  a  hundred  years,  passed  away  in  his  ninety- 
eighth.  He  was  a  remarkable  man,  who  prepared  and  pub- 
lished a  
little  volume  of  Reminiscences  a  few  years  ago,  and 
continued  to  write  pamphlets  until  within  a  year  or  two  past, 
—  addressing  them  to  me  in  as  steady  and  beautiful  a  hand- 
writing as  
if  he  were  fresh  from  the  copy-books  of  the  schools. 
I  take  this  opportunity  to  present  some  of  them  to  our 
library,  as  of  historical  interest  in  themselves,  and  as  the  fruits 
of  a  memorable  old  age. 
Let  me  return,  however,  to  Dr.  Paige.  He  is  not  present, 
as  I  hoped  he  would  be,  to  receive  our  salutations.  The  iron 
stairs,  which  I  hesitated  about  climbing  at  eighty-three,  are  a 
full  apology  for  ninety.  Let  us  send  him  our  cordial  greet- 
ings and  congratulations  from  this  hall,  with  our  earnest  hopes 
that  health  and  happiness  may  be  his  to  the  end. 
Mr.  Winthrop  then  moved  the  following  resolution  : — 
Voted,  That  the  Secretary  be  directed  to  communicate  to 
Rev.  Dr.  Paige  the  congratulations  of  the  Society  on  the  com- 
pletion of  
his  ninetieth  year,  and  their  best  wishes  for  his 
continued  health  and  happiness. 
The  motion  was  unanimously  adopted,  all  the  members  rising 
when  the  vote  was  put. 
Dr.  Samuel  A.  Green  then  read  the  following  note  from 
Rev.  Dr.  Paige  :  — 
Cambridgeport,  March  7,  1892. 
Dear  Sir,  —  As  to-morrow  will  be  my  birthday,  I  fear  I  shall  be  so 
much  fatigued  by  greeting  my  friends  that  I  shall  be  unable  to  attend 
the  meeting  of  the  Historical  Society  on  Thursday.  If  possible,  how- 
ever, I  
will  be  with  you,  as  usual.  The  hour  spent  with  the  Society  is 
one  of  the  most  pleasant  and  enjoyable  in  the  whole  month,  and  I  shall 
much  regret  the  loss  of  it,  
if  my  fear  shall  be  realized. 
Respectfully,  etc., 
Lucius  R.  Paige. 
Hon.  S.  A.  Green. 
Mr.  John  Fiske  was  elected  a  Resident  Member. 
1  See  2  Proceedings,  vol.  iv.  pp.  303-305. 
 - 391 - 
348  MASSACHUSETTS  HISTORICAL  SOCIETY.  [April, 
ANNUAL  MEETING,  APRIL,   1892. 
The  Annual  Meeting  was  held  on  Thursday,  the  14th 
instant,  at  twelve  o'clock,  M.,  the  President,  Dr.  George 
E.  Ellis,  in  the  chair. 
After  the  reading  of  the  record  of  the  last  stated  meeting 
and  the  list  of  donors  to  the  Library  during  the  last  month, 
the  President  announced  the  death  of  Edward  A.  Freeman, 
D.C.L.,  an  Honorary  Member,  who  was  elected  in  September, 
1873,  and  died  in  Alicante,  Spain,  of  small-pox,  March  16, 
1892. 
The  President  then  read  the  following  letter  from  the  senior 
Vice-President,  Mr.  Francis  Parkman,  who  was  unavoidably 
absent  from  the  meeting  :  — 
50  Chestnut  Street,  11  April,  1892. 
Mr.  President: 
Mt  dear  Sir,  —  I  send  herewith  a  number  of  manuscripts,  notes, 
and  calendars  of  documents,  as  an  addition  to  the  "  Parkman  Papers  " 
already  belonging  to  the  Society.     The  following  is  the  list :  — 
Canada,  Correspondance  Officielle,  1621-1679  ...     1  vol.  folio. 
Papers  on  the  Canadian  Jesuits    1  vol.  quarto. 
Jesuit  Letters,  1683  to  1708  .     .     .     
'.    .      .     .     .     .     1  vol.  thin  4to. 
Documents  and  notes  on  the  Jesuits,  Frontenac,  etc.     1  portfolio  4to. 
Calendar  of  documents  from   the   French   Archives, 
relating  to  the  time  of  Frontenac,  1672-1698  .     .     1  packet. 
Notes  from  original  documents  used  in  preparation  of 
"  The  Old  Regime  in  Canada  "            2  vols.  4to. 
Marquis  de  la  Roche,  1598.  Rapport  du  Capitaine 
Fleury,  1613.  Lettre  de  la  Sceur  Ce'cile  de  Ste. 
Croix,  1639                                                                              1  small  4to. 
Calendar  of  French  and  English  MSS.  used  in  pre- 
paration of "  A  Half-Century  of  Conflict"      .     .     .     1  packet. 
Calendar  of  French  and  English  MSS.  on  the  "  Seven 
Years'  War,"  1748-1763  (used  for  "Montcalm  and 
Wolfe")            1  portfolio. 
Notes   and  Extracts  on  Acadians,  Abenakis,  Father 
Sebastian  Rale,  etc                                                                                  1  portfolio. 
 - 392 - 
1892.]  LEIF   ERICSON  AND  THE  NORSE  SAGAS.  349 
Relation  sur  le  Canada  1695,  1696,  and  various  papers 
on  French  Canada                                                              1  packet. 
Papers   relating   to   Louisbourg,   1745,  and    extracts 
from  Journal  de  Franquet,   1752        1  portfolio. 
Papers  relating  to  La  Verendrye,  from  originals  in 
Depot  des  Cartes  de  la  Marine.  Various  autograph 
papers  on  Acadia,  etc                                                                             1  packet. 
Very  truly  yours, 
F.  Parkman. 
[Indorsed:  "  List  of  Papers  given  to  Mass.  Hist.  Soc,  11  April,  1892,  by  F.  P."] 
The  President  said  he  had  received  a  letter  from  Major 
James  Walter,  reaffirming  the  genuineness  of  the  so-called 
Sharpless- Washington  portraits  ; 1  and  on  his  suggestion  the 
letter  was  referred  to  Mr.  A.  C.  Goodell,  Jr.,  for  examination. 
Mr.  Henry  W.  Haynes,  from  the  second  section,  on  being 
called  on,  read  the  following  paper  :  — 
A  few    Words  more  about  Leif  Ericson  and  the  Norse  Sagas. 
A  committee  of  this  Society  was  appointed  in  November, 
1887,  to  consider  the  question  of  the  alleged  discovery  of 
America  by  the  Northmen  ;  and  at  the  following  meeting  their 
report  was  presented.  In  it  they  stated  their  conclusion  to  be 
that  "there  is  the  same  sort  of  reason  for  believing  in  the 
existence  of  Leif  Ericson  that  there  is  for  believing  in  the  ex- 
istence of  
Agamemnon,  —  they  are  both  traditions  accepted 
by  later  writers  ;  
but  there  is  no  more  reason  for  regarding  as 
true  the  details  related  about  his  discoveries  than  there  is  for 
accepting  as  historic  truth  the  narratives  contained  in  the 
Homeric  poems."  2  The  grounds  for  this  conclusion  were  said 
to  be  that  "  such  details,  if  true,  now  rest  upon  no  stronger 
foundation  than  a  tradition  of  four  hundred  years."  The 
report  also  suggested  as  an  alternative  that  "  all  of  these 
details  are  a  romantic  fiction,  as  some  of  them  plainly  are." 
Since  this  report  was  presented,  the  researches  of  the  late 
Arthur  Middleton  Reeves  (whose  tragical  death  all  students 
of  history  deplore)  have  tended  to  reduce  the  period  of  tradi- 
tion to  three  hundred  years.3  Your  committee,  however,  do 
not  think  that  their  argument  as  to  the  truth  of  the  multi- 
i  See  2  Proceedings,  vol.  iii.  pp.  179-187. 
2  Ibid.  vol.  iv.  p.  43. 
3  The  Finding  of  Wineland  the  Good,  p.  23. 
 - 393 - 
350  MASSACHUSETTS  HISTOEICAL   SOCIETY.  [April, 
plicity  of  details  contained  in  the  Sagas  has  been  invalidated 
by  this. 
It  seems  that  the  believers  in  the  historical  character  of  the 
Sagas  have  taken  great  exception  to  the  comparison  instituted 
between  the  probable  existence  of  Leif  Ericson  and  of  Aga- 
memnon, for  
which,  as  the  writer  of  the  report,  I  suppose  I 
must  be  held  accountable.  On  a  previous  occasion  I  have 
referred  to  certain  criticisms  of  this  report,  and  of  the  motives 
that  were  alleged  to  have  inspired  it,  made  by  Rev.  Dr.  B.  F. 
De  Costa  ; 1  and  I  now  wish  to  call  the  attention  of  the  Society 
to  some  comments  upon  it,  of  a  character  by  no  means  compli- 
mentary, to  
be  found  in  the  recently  published  historical 
work  of  Mr.  John  Fiske.  These  I  will  quote  at  considerable 
length  :  — 
"  It  would  be  difficult  to  find  a  comparison  more  inappropriate  than 
that  between  Agamemnon  and  Leif,  between  the  Iliad  and  the  Saga  of 
Eric  the  Red.  ...  It  is  in  a  high  degree  probable  .  .  .  that  in  times 
long  before  the  first  Olympiad  an  actual  '  
king  of  men  '  
at  Mycenas  con- 
ducted an  expedition  against  the  great  city  by  the  Simois,  that  the  Aga- 
memnon of  
the  poet  stands  in  some  such  relation  towards  this  chieftain 
as  that  in  which  the  Charlemagne  of  mediaeval  romance  stands  towards 
the  mighty  Emperor  of  the  West.  Nevertheless  the  story,  as  we  have 
it,  
is  simply  folk-lore.  If  the  Iliad  and  the  Odyssey  contain  faint  remi- 
niscences of  
actual  events,  these  events  are  so  inextricably  wrapped  up 
with  mythical  phraseology  that  by  no  cunning  of  the  scholar  can  they 
be  construed  into  history.  The  motives  and  capabilities  of  the  actors, 
and  the  conditions  under  which  they  accomplish  their  destinies,  are  such 
as  exist  only  in  fairy  tales.  ...  It  would  be  hard  to  find  anything  more 
unlike  such  writings  than  the  class  of  Icelandic  Sagas  to  which  that  of 
Eric  the  Red  belongs.  Here  we  have  quiet  and  sober  narrative,  not  in 
the  least  like  a  fairy  tale,  but  often  much  like  a  ship's  log.  In  act  and 
motive,  in  its  conditions  and  laws,  its  world  is  the  every-day  world  in 
which  we  live.  ...  I  suspect  that  misleading  associations  with  the  word 
'  
Saga '  
may  have  exerted  an  unconscious  influence  in  producing  this 
particular  kind  of  blunder,  —  for  it  is  nothing  less  than  a  blunder.  Re- 
semblance is  
tacitly  assumed  between  the  Iliad  and  an  Icelandic  Saga. 
Well,  between  the  Iliad  and  some  Icelandic  Sagas  there  is  a  real  and 
strong  resemblance.  In  truth,  these  Sagas  are  divisible  into  two  well- 
marked  and  sharply  contrasted  classes.  In  the  one  class  belong  the 
Eddie  Lays  and  mythical  Sagas.  ...  In  the  other  class  come  the  his- 
torical Sagas."  2 
1  2  Proceedings,  vol.  v.  p.  332. 
2  The  Discovery  of  America,  vol.  i.  pp.  194-197. 
 - 394 - 
1892.]  LEIF  ERICSON  AND   THE  NORSE   SAGAS.  351 
In  a  foot-note  Mr.  Fiske  cites  Vigfusson  as  his  principal 
authority  for  this  characterization  of  Icelandic  literature  ; 
but  Vigfusson's  exact  language  is :  "  What  we  hold  is  that 
the  Sagas  are  to  be  looked  upon  as  epics,  founded  on  fact, 
not  as  exact  histories."  1  The  Saga  of  Eric  the  Red  is 
regarded  by  Mr.  Fiske  as  belonging  to  the  class  of  histori- 
cal Sagas,  and  it  is  to  be  found  in  two  versions,  —  an  earlier 
(Western)  one,  the  Hauksbok,  which  gives  an  account  of 
events  that  happened  three  centuries  before  it  was  written  ; 
and  a  later  (Northern)  version,  the  Flateyarbok,  containing  con- 
siderable additional  material  concerning  the  Vinland  voyages. 
This,  however,  can  scarcely  be  thought  to  add  to  its  historic 
value.  Mr.  Fiske  thinks  that  the  Hauksbok  "  may  be  a  faith- 
ful transcript  of  some  earlier  document  since  lost."  He  does 
not  believe  that  "  it  will  ever  occur  to  any  rational  being  to 
suggest  that  Hauk  may  have  written  down  his  version  of  Eric 
the  Red's  Saga  from  an  oral  tradition  nearly  three  centuries 
old.  .  .  .  One  cannot  reasonably  doubt  ...  it  was  copied 
by  him  .  .  .  from  some  older  vellum  not  now  forthcoming." 
Finally,  in  his  summing  up  of  his  argument  Mr.  Fiske  says  : 
"  It  is  probable  that  the  facts,  mentioned  in  Hauk's  document  rested 
upon  some  kind  of  a  written  basis  as  early  as  the  eleventh  century.  The 
data  are  more  scanty  than  we  could  wish,  but  they  all  point  in  the  same 
direction.  .  .  .  For  these  reasons  it  seems  to  me  that  the  Saga  of  Eric 
the  Red  should  be  accepted  as  history." 
Such  is  the  line  of  argument,  drawn  mainly  from  a  supposed 
transmission  through  imagined  copies,  that  is  relied  upon  by 
Mr.  Fiske  to  establish  the  historical  character  of  this  "  quiet 
and  sober  narrative,  not  in  the  least  like  a  fairy  tale,"  notwith- 
standing all  
its  strange  stories  about  the  "  uniped  "  ;  and  the 
"  big  ball  swing  from  a  pole  over  the  heads  of  the  white  men, 
falling  to  the  ground  with  a  horrid  noise  "  ;  "  the  ships  of  the 
Skraellings,  with  their  crews  and  oars  "  ;  the  grapes  found  by 
Leif's  foster-father,  Tyrker,  upon  whose  juice  he  became  "  quite 
merry  "  ;  the  fields  of  "  self-sown  wheat,"  and  similar  vera- 
cious narratives.  Because  your  Committee  were  unable  to  see 
in  a  Saga  abounding  in  episodes  like  this  more  than  a  poetic 
narrative  based  upon  certain  actual  occurrences  handed  down 
1  "Leif  Erikson,"  by  Mrs.  Ole  Bull.    (Magazine  of  American  History,  March, 
1888.) 
 - 395 - 
352  MASSACHUSETTS    HISTORICAL   SOCIETY.  [April, 
by  tradition,  they  are  accused  of  having  committed  "  a  blunder." 
Now,  Webster  defines  a  blunder  as  meaning  "  a  gross  error  or 
mistake,  resulting  from  carelessness,  stupidity,  or  culpable 
ignorance."  Under  which  head  Mr.  Fiske  would  class  our 
difference  of  opinion  he  has  not  made  quite  clear.  In  his 
attempt  to  elucidate  the  historical  character  of  this  Saga  he  is 
constrained  to  give  up  the  "  uniped  "  in  despair,  as  u  a  fabulous 
creature  ";  but  the  "  self-sown  wheat  "  causes  him  no  trouble 
whatsoever,  —  indeed,  for  him  it  is  "an  important  ear-mark  of 
truth  in  the  narrative  "  ;  
it  means  maize,  '*  a  cereal  requiring 
so  little  cultivation  that  without  much  latitude  of  speech  it 
might  be  described  as  growing  wild."  Governor  Bradford, 
however,  who  had  had  some  practical  experience  on  this  point, 
thought  differently.  In  his  account  of  the  earliest  doings  at 
Plymouth  he  tells  us  :  — 
"  As  many  as  were  able  began  to  plant  ther  corne,  in  which  servise 
Squanto  stood  them  in  great  stead,  showing  them  both  ye  maner  how 
to  set  it,  and  after  how  to  dress  and  tend  it.  Also  he  tould  them 
excepte  they  gott  fish  and  set  with  it  (in  these  old  grounds)  it  would 
come  to  nothing."  1 
In  turning  over  Mr.  Fiske's  pages,  however,  I  have  chanced 
upon  certain  statements  that  would  seem  to  me  to  come  quite 
up  to  the  accepted  definition  of  a  blunder.  For  example,  he 
states  that  Helbig2  says  that  "  stone-pointed  spears  were  used 
by  the  English  at  the  battle  of  Hastings."3  But  if  he  had 
taken  the  trouble  to  read  what  Helbig  actually  does  say,  he 
would  have  found  only  a  literal  translation  of  William  of 
Poictiers's  statement  that  the  Anglo-Saxons  had  "  club-like 
weapons,  consisting  of  stones  made  fast  to  wooden  stocks." 
Again,  he  tells  us  that  "  the  Romans  in  the  regal  period  were 
ignorant  of  iron."4  This  is  stated  upon  the  authority  of  Lan- 
ciani  ; 5  but  a  long  while  ago  I  showed  this  conclusion  of 
Lanciani  to  be  entirely  wrong,  and  that  he  "  might  as  reason- 
ably have  argued  that  Rome  was  founded  in  the  Age  of  Stone 
as  in  the  Age  of  Bronze."  6     So,  also,  Mr.  Fiske  asserts  that 
1  Bradford's  History  of  Plymouth,  p.  100. 
2  Die  Italiker  in  der  Poebene,  p.  42. 
8  Discovery  of  America,  vol.  i.  p.  186. 
*  Ibid.  p.  31. 
5  Ancient  Rome  in  the  Light  of  Recent  Discoveries,  pp.  39-48. 
6  The  Nation,  Jan.  24,  1889. 
 - 396 - 
1892.]  LEIF   ERICSON   AND   THE   NORSE   SAGAS.  353 
"  the  earliest  distinct  reference  to  Columbus  in  the  English 
language  is  to  be  found  in  a  prose  translation  of  Sebastian 
Brandt's  '  
Shyppe  of  Fooles,'  by  Henry  Watson,  published  in 
London,  by  Wynkyn  de  Woode,  in  1509."  x  The  authority 
cited  for  this  statement  is  Harrisse.2  But  Mr.  Fiske  failed  to 
notice  that  Harrisse  makes  a  reservation  expressly  in  regard  to 
Alexander  Barclay's  poetical  version  of  the  same  poem,  as  he 
had  been  unable  to  find  it.  Warton,3  however,  informs  us  that 
Barclay's  translation  was  made  in  1508,  and  that  it  was  pub- 
lished in  
1509  by  Pynson.  Consequently  the  world  seems  to 
have  agreed  to  regard  this  as  the  earliest  notice  of  Columbus 
in  our  tongue. 
But  enough  of  picking  flaws  in  so  learned,  painstaking,  and 
entertaining  a  work  as  Mr.  Fiske  has  produced.  Indeed,  I 
think  he  has  made  it  quite  evident  that  he  has  no  very  differ- 
ent opinion  in  regard  to  the  personal  identity  of  Agamemnon 
from  that  of  your  Committee.  True,  in  speaking  of  Abraham 
and  Agamemnon,  he  says  in  a  foot-note  :  "  I  here  use  these 
world-famous  names  without  any  implication  as  to  their  his- 
torical character  or  their  precise  date."4  But,  earlier  in  his 
work,  he  has  drawn  a  contrast  between  Agamemnon  and  Ed- 
ward III.  ;5  and  in  a  subsequent  passage  he  says  that  "the 
Inca  was  in  all  probability  much  more  a  king  than  Agamem- 
non,—  more  like  Rameses  the  Great"  ;6  thus  sandwiching  him 
between  two  personages  certainly  historical  in  a  most  realistic 
fashion. 
When  your  Committee  made  their  much-criticised  compari- 
son between  the  actuality  of  Leif  and  of  Agamemnon,  they  only 
voiced  the  sentiment  so  admirably  expressed  by  one  of  the 
greatest  living  classical  scholars  of  England,  in  considering 
the  confirmation  of  Agamemnon's  existence  supposed  to  be 
afforded  by  Schliemann's  discoveries  at  Mycenae.    He  says  : 
"  This  wide  sway  of  the  Pelopidae,  on  which  Homer  so  emphatically 
dwells,  though  it  rested  only  on  tradition,  and  was  not  supported  by  what 
we  should  call  historical  evidence,  was  to  the  Greek  mind  a  real  fact, 
1  Discovery  of  America,  vol.  i.  p.  452. 
2  Bibliotheca  Americana  Vetustissima,  Additions,  p.  45. 
3  History  of  English  Poetry,  §  xxix. 
4  Discovery  of  America,  vol.  i.  p.  124. 
5  Ibid.  p.  113. 
6  Ibid.  vol.  ii.  p.  337.           45 
 - 397 - 
354  MASSACHUSETTS   HISTORICAL  SOCIETY.  [April, 
which  the  most  sceptical  of  their  historians  would  hardly  have  ventured 
to  dispute.  In  their  eyes  Agamemnon  was  not,  as  one  school  of  mod- 
ern critics  regard  him,  a  mere  shadow  projected  on  the  blank  back- 
ground of  
an  unknown  past,  and  of  which  we  shall  never  grasp  the 
substance.  This  magni  nominis  umbra  to  the  ancients  suggested  a 
real  personality,- —  a  king  whose  disastrous  fate,  coming  so  soon  after 
his  triumphant  return  from  Troy,  served  in  after  ages  as  the  favorite 
theme  of  epic  and  tragic  poetry  ;  his  memory,  embalmed  in  the  immor- 
tal verse  of  JEschylus  and  his  brother  dramatists,  still  lives  on  ;  and  it 
is  not  without  violence  to  deep-rooted  associations  that  an  old-fashioned 
scholar  can  train  himself  to  think  of  Agamemnon  as  merely  a  name  rep- 
resenting a  
dynasty,  still  less  as  one  of  the  dramatis  personce  in  a  solar 
myth."  x 
Your  Committee  feel  that  they  have  been  fortunate  in  "  blun- 
dering" in  
good  company,  at  least,  in  claiming,  in  their  "old- 
fashioned"  way,  Agamemnon  as  an  historical  personage  worthy 
of  being  named  in  the  same  breath  with  even  Leif,  the  son  of 
Eric,  of  whom  Mr.  Fiske  himself  declares  that  "  it  is  an  abuse 
of  language  to  say  that  he  discovered  America."  2 
The  controversy  over  the  historical  character  of  the  Sagas 
will  be  settled  in  accordance  with  the  character  of  the  minds 
of  the  disputants,  —  whether  they  are  willing  to  decide  only 
upon  the  weight  of  the  evidence,  or  are  swayed  by  credulity 
based  upon  conjecture.  So  far  the  verdict  of  the  majority  of 
the  students  of  history  has  not  been  in  accord  with  Mr.  Fiske's 
views. 
No  other  member  rising,  Mr.  Roger  Wolcott,  from  the 
third  section,  communicated  some  letters  belonging  to  the 
early  period  of  the  Revolutionary  War,  and  said  :  — 
Since  the  last  meeting  of  the  Society  we  have  passed  an 
anniversary  the  significance  of  which  to  earlier  generations  of 
Bostonians  is  probably  obscured  to  very  many  of  our  citizens 
to-day  by  the  coincidence  of  another  and  more  ostentatious 
commemoration.  It  is  the  latter  that  calls  our  governors  and 
mayors  to  the  steps  of  State  House  and  City  Hall  to  review 
the  passing  pageant  of  marching  men  and  burdened  barouches, 
while  the  flags  flying  from  our  public  buildings  are  the  silent 
reminders  of  the  former. 
1  C.  T.  Newton,  Essays  on  Art  and  Archaeology,  p.  248,  from  the  Edinburgh 
Review,  1878. 
2  Discovery  of  America,  vol.  i.  p.  255. 
 - 398 - 
1892.]  REMARKS   BY   MR.   WOLCOTT.  355 
I  ask  a  brief  moment  of  your  time  to  read  a  few  extracts 
from  letters  written  by  two  actors  in  the  events  which  culmi- 
nated in  
the  evacuation  of  Boston  by  the  British  troops.  The 
writers  were  brothers,  and  were  sons  of  Jabez  Huntington,  of 
Norwich,  Connecticut,  a  graduate  of  Yale,  and  at  the  opening 
of  the  war  a  man  of  large  fortune  acquired  in  the  West  India 
trade.  This  fortune,  and  his  five  sons  as  well,  he  freely  de- 
voted to  the  patriot  cause  ;  and  all  of  his  sons  acquired  mili- 
tary distinction,  three  of  them  dying  with  the  rank  of  major- 
general  of  the  regular  army  or  State  militia.  The  father 
was  himself  appointed  in  1776  by  the  Assembly  of  Connec- 
ticut one  of  two  major-generals  ;  and  on  the  death  of  David 
Wooster  from  a  wound  received  at  the  skirmish  at  Danbury 
with  Tryon's  retreating  troops,  the  vacancy  was  left  unfilled, 
and  General  Huntington  placed  in  sole  command  of  the  entire 
Connecticut  militia. 
The  oldest  son,  Jedidiah,  graduated  with  distinguished 
honor  at  Harvard  in  the  class  of  1763.  His  name  stands  sec- 
'ond  on  the  college  catalogue  in  a  class  of  thirty-nine,  which 
contained,  among  others  who  afterward  became  famous,  the 
younger  Josiah  Quincy  and  Timothy  Pickering.  The  Mas- 
ter's degree  was  conferred  upon  him  by  Yale  College  in  1770. 
He  became  an  ardent  Son  of  Liberty,  and  just  a  week  after 
the  battle  of  Lexington  joined  the  army  at  Cambridge,  as  cap- 
tain commanding  a  regiment,  and  was  afterward  detailed  as 
part  of  the  force  to  occupy  Dorchester  Heights.  After  the 
Evacuation  he  marched  with  the  army  to  New  York,  enter- 
taining the  commander-in-chief  on  the  wav  at  his  house  in 
Norwich.  At  General  Washington's  request  he  was  made 
brigadier-general  in  May,  1777,  and  at  the  close  of  the  war 
received  the  brevet  rank  of  major-general.  He  was  constant^ 
engaged  during  the  war  in  New  York,  New  Jersey,  and  Penn- 
sylvania, and  
shared  the  hardships  of  Valley  Forge.  In  July, 
1778,  he  was  a  member  of  the  court-martial  that  tried  General 
Lee,  and  in  September,  1780,  sat  upon  the  court  of  inquiry 
to  which  was  referred  the  case  of  Major  Andre'.  In  1783  he 
was  appointed  one  of  a  committee  of  four  officers  to  report  a 
plan  of  organization  for  the  Society  of  the  Cincinnati.  The 
above  is  but  an  outline  of  his  distinguished  public  service,  and 
omits  many  important  particulars.  His  portrait  by  Trumbull 
shows  a  most  gallant  and  martial  figure,  and  a  face  instinct 
with  energy  and  resolution. 
 - 399 - 
356  MASSACHUSETTS  HISTORICAL  SOCIETY.  [April, 
A  younger  brother,  Colonel  Joshua,  not  yet  twenty-four 
when  the  exciting  news  from  Lexington  reached  Norwich, 
hastened  to  the  scene  of  action  with  a  hundred  men  under  his 
command,  as  lieutenant,  and  was  at  once  joined  to  Putnam's 
brigade.  That  the  young  lieutenant  was  not  deficient  in  the 
power  of  controlling  his  men  is  made  evident  by  the  testimony 
of  his  brother,  who  writes  from  Providence,  June  13,1775  : 
"  I  do  not  know  what  credit  brother  Joshua  is  in  camp,  but  I  find  at 
this  place  and  all  along  the  road  he  has  got  himself  much  honor  from 
the  good  order  and  regularity  of  his  company.  He  is  much  spoken  of 
for  his  good  behavior." 
He  too  followed  the  army  to  New  York,  and  at  a  later  period 
was  employed  in  securing  shipping  for  the  patriot  cause. 
It  may  be  interesting  to  note  that  a  third  brother,  Ebenezer, 
was  a  senior  at  Yale,  when  he  too  was  fired  by  the  same  im- 
petuous patriotism  which  had  drawn  his  brothers  to  Cam- 
bridge. He  applied  to  the  Faculty  for  a  dismissal,  and  on 
being  refused  at  once  left  New  Haven,  and  joined  a  company 
of  volunteers  on  its  march  to  Boston.  But  a  college  diploma 
still  possessed  value  in  his  eyes  even  amid  the  clash  of  arms. 
From  Roxbury  Camp,  under  date  of  Sept.  25,  1775,  he  writes 
to  his  father:  — 
"  I  should  be  glad  if  you  would  get  me  a  certificate  from  President 
Daggett  that  I  am  in  regular  standing  in  college,  and  likewise  a  recom- 
mendation, asI  imagine  I  can  have  a  degree  without  going  to  Commence- 
ment for  
it ;  as  Dr.  Langdon  has  given  me  encouragement  that  he  will 
give  me  one  if  the  New  Haven  President  refuses  it  —  if  I  am  denied  it 
only  because  of  my  tarry  from  college  this  summer,  and  my  leaving  it 
without  liberty,  in  the  alarm  last  April." 
The  advantage  of  having  two  strings  to  one's  bow  was  well 
illustrated  in  the  case  of  this  young  soldier  ;  
for  he  not  only 
received  from  Yale  College  the  degree  of  A.B.  with  his  class, 
but  was  presented  with  the  same  degree  honoris  causd  by 
Harvard  College  in  accordance  with  the  promise  of  its  patri- 
otic president. 
The  extracts  which  I  shall  give  begin  with  one  from  a  letter 
of  Joshua,  dated  "  Prospect  Hill  in  Cambridge,"  June  22, 
1775.  The  first  pitched  battle  of  the  war  had  been  fought 
five  days  before.     He  writes  : — 
 - 400 - 
1892.]  REMARKS   BY  MR.    WOLCOTT.  357 
"  Should  have  wrote  you  last  week  from  Dedham  but  came  from 
there  in  the  alarm  on  Saturday  last.  As  to  the  Battle  I  am  not  able  to 
give  you  the  Particulars  att  Present  The  Provincials  have  Lost  ah*  70 
or  80  men  as  Near  as  I  Can  find  out  by  the  Difreut  Officers  &  ab*  120 
Wounded,  butt  very  few  Wounded  Mortally,  the  Report  from  Boston 
is  that  the  Regulars  have  Lost  &  Wounded  one  thousand  Men  among 
Whom  tis  said  are  a  considerable  number  of  Officers  some  say  General 
How  and  Majr  Pit  Cam  is  killed  ; I  am  now  encamped  on  Prospect 
Hill  ab'  one  mile  from  Charlestown  ferry,  we  have  entrenched  so  strong 
that  tis  thought  we  shall  be  able  to  keep  our  ground,  we  have  been  fired 
att  a  number  of  times  from  the  Ships  and  Floating  Battery,  butt  they 
were  not  able  to  reach  us,  several  men  have  been  killed  since  Monday 
last  by  guns  going  off  accidentally,  although  the  officers  take  all  possible 
care  to  prevent  it.  We  have  2  men  in  our  Company  Wounded  in  the 
battle  but  not  Mortally,  ...  we  lost  none." 
Sept.  18,  1775,  he  is  able  to  report  :  — 
"  As  to  nuse  we  have  nothing  Remarkable  att  Camp,  itt  is  a  General 
time  of  Health  with  the  army,  though  there  are  Numbers  Sick,  very 
few  Die,  itt  is  said  to  be  very  Sickly  in  Boston,  with  the  Inhabitants, 
as  well  as  with  the  Soldiers,  &  that  the  Inhabitants  Die  very  fast." 
A  few  days  later  he  writes  :  — 
"  I  take  this  opportunity  to  acquaint  you  of  the  circumstances  of  our 
Regiment  ;  according  to  the  Arrangement  of  the  Army  the  Majr  & 
Brigadier  Generals  are  not  to  hold  their  respective  regiments,  &  the 
Field  Officers  are  not  to  hold  their  Companyes,  and  tis  thought  by 
the  officers  of  our  Regiment  that  it  is  necessary  to  have  the  vacancies 
filled  up,  the  Field  officers  have  wrote  the  Governour  on  the  matter, 
should  be  glad  you  would  advise  the  Governour  to  fill  up  the  Vacancies 
in  the  Field  Officers  Companies,  if  you  think  it  best,  Suppose  it  will  be 
entirely  agreeable  to  the  officers  of  the  Regiment  to  have  me  take  the 
Command  of  Majr  Durkee's  Company  as  Captain  ;  
however  am  willing 
to  have  the  Governour  Do  as  he  thinks  Best,  in  regard  to  Filling  up 
Vacancies.  Butt  shall  rest  entirely  sattisfied  with  your  doing  as  you 
think  will  be  of  the  most  advantage  for  the  good  of  the  Army,  in  giving 
your  advice  in  the  matter." 
In  November  he  reports,  "  The  Reduction  of  St.  Johns  we 
have  had,  with  the  Terms  of  Capitulation."     He  then  adds : 
"  I  can't  say  when  I  shall  be  at  home,  as  the  Connecticut  troops  are 
desired  to  stay  the  month  of  December,  I  am  affraid  that  our  soldiers 
will  not  stay,  any  longer  than  they  first  engaged  for,  so  shall  stay  as 
long  as  our  company  will  tarry  and  then  return.  .  .  .  We  expect  to 
 - 401 - 
358  MASSACHUSETTS   HISTORICAL  SOCIETY.  [April, 
entrench  on  Cobble  Hill  this  Night,  which  I  expect  will  Disturb  our 
Enemies." 
We  now  take  up  the  letters  of  Jedidiah.  Under  date  of 
"  Camp  at  Roxbury,  5  January,  1776,"  he  writes  :  — 
"  Colonel  Trumbull  is  recruiting  —  as  to  his  sending  money  cannot 
say  —  this  much  I  know  that  the  Demands  here  for  Cash  exceed  the  Sup- 
plies, the  
last  Sum  that  came  which  was  about  a  Fortnight  ago  was  500,000 
Doll  : &  that  was  not  half  enough  —  The  Troops  (Connecticut  excepted) 
have  reed  Pay  only  to  the  1st  Nov1- —  and  several  Departments  are  com- 
plaining for  
the  want  of  Money  —  The  Prize  which  the  Post  told  of 
proved  to  be  a  ship  from  the  southward  with  Flour  bound  to  Newberry 
Port.  —  I  saw  a  Boston  Paper  of  Yesterday  —  containing  Addresses 
from  many  manufact'g  Towns  in  England  to  His  Majesty  applauding 
his  Measures  &  exclaiming  against  us  —  that  .  .  .  Sayre  Esqr  x  was 
committed  to  the  Tower  for  high  Treason.   .  .  . 
(i  
Fascines  are  now  cutting  in  preparation  for  possessing  an  important 
Post  to  annoy  the  Enemy  — 
"  long  orders  are  daily  issuing  from  Head  Quarters  to  put  the  new 
Army  under  the  best  Regulation  —  I  hope  &  doubt  not  that  better 
Order  &  Discipline  will  be  seen  in  the  new  Army  than  was  in  the  old." 
A  week  later  he  writes  :  — 
Camp  at  Roxbury  12  Jan?  1776 
Hond  Sir,  —  I  wrote  you  by  Post  since  which  have  not  been  favoured 
with  any  of  yours  —  I  write  Benj  not  to  send  me  a  Horse  till  he  hears 
further  from  me  —  The  General  is  determined  to  have  the  Army  to- 
gether the  first  of  February  —  for  which  he  has  caused  Advertisements 
to  be  published  in  all  the  Papers  notifying  all  Officers  &  Soldiers  to  join 
their  respective  Corps  at  that  time  — 
I  now  begin  to  think  I  shall  not  visit  My  Friends  at  Norwich  before 
the  latter  End  of  February  —  Some  Preparations  are  making  for  taking 
Ground  on  Dorchester  Point,  but  not  so  forward  as  I  could  wish  —  I 
would  not  be  uneasy  at  Delay,  as  our  Inactivity  may  in  the  Hands  of 
divine  Providence  be  made  as  effectual  for  our  Deliverance  as  the  most 
vigorous  Action,  but  it  is  not  probable  that  we  shall  ever  have  a  more 
1  This  was  Stephen  Sayre,  a  graduate  of  the  College  of  New  Jersey,  who  re- 
ceived from  Harvard  College  the  honorary  degree  of  A.M.  in  1766.  He  was  Sheriff 
of  London  in  1774,  and  a  prominent  banker  and  merchant.  "  His  zeal  for  the  in- 
dependence of  
his  native  country  was  unmeasured;  and  an  officer  of  the  Royal 
Guards,  named  Richardson,  also  an  American,  seized  upon  a  gay  and  unguarded 
expression  of  Mr.  Sayre  to  bring  a  charge  of  high  treason  for  imagining  the  death 
of  the  king,  and  he  was  committed  to  the  Tower.  The  charge  soon  ended  in 
Mr.  Sayre's  release."  He  was  afterward  employed  in  many  important  diplomatic 
missions,  and  died  in  1818. 
 - 402 - 
1892.]  REMARKS   BY  MR.   WOLCOTT.  359 
favourable  Time  than  the  present  to  put  our  Enemies  to  the  Rout  —  and 
should  we  be  so  Successful  as  to  divest  them  of  their  Strong  Holds  in 
Boston  it  is  not  very  likely  they  will  get  a  Footing  that  we  cannot  easily 
supplant  at  any  other  Place  —  The  Militia  who  were  called  in  to 
strengthen  our  Army  and  were  inlisted  to  stay  'till  the  middle  of  this 
Month  are  now  desired  to  continue  to  the  End  of  it,  but  I  do  not  expect 
many  of  them  will  stay  —  when  they  are  gone,  this  Camp  will  be  re- 
duced to  
less  than  2,000  men  fit  for  Duty  unless  the  Recruits  come  in  — 
I  send  you  the  Brigade  Majors  Return  of  General  Spencer's  Brigade  by 
which  you  will  see  the  Strength  of  it,  and  by  that,  the  Strength  of  the 
whole  Army  as  the  other  five  Brigades  are  nearly  the  same 
I  remain  your  affectionate  &  dutif'ull  Son 
Jed.  Huntington 
The  Return  mentioned  above  must  be  omitted  till  my  Next  as  it  is 
not  completed  at  the  closing  of  this  Letter  — 
After  an  interval  of  five  weeks  he  sends  the  following 
letter  :  — 
Roxbury  Camp  19th  Feb?  1776 
Hond  Sir,  —  I  have  your  Favours  of  11th  &  14th  instants  have 
Opportunity  to  say  few  words  only  by  this  Bearer  —  We  are  making 
Preparations  as  fast  as  possible  in  Order  to  bombard  the  Town  &c.  — 
Two  load  of  Powder  arrived  last  Evening  from  Providence  —  the  last 
of  Col  Woolcot's  Companies  came  in  yesterday  —  Col  :  Durkee  is  very 
sick  —  there  are  several  Vacancies  of  Field  Officers  in  the  Army  If 
the  Governor  can  cleverly  mention  Major  Chester  to  the  General  as  an 
Officer  of  Family,  Fortune,  military  Spirit  &c  (all  which  may  be  said 
with  Truth)  perhaps  he  will  be  appointed  to  some  Place  or  other  which 
I  am  sure  he  will  fill  much  more  to  the  Honour  of  the  Colony  &  Service 
than  some  have  done  —  I  have  nothing  material  to  add  only  that  I  send 
Love  &  Duty  to  all  —  pray  Mother  may  be  enjoying  usual  Health  — 
I  am  Your  dutifull  &  affect6  son 
Jed.  Huntington 
The  principal  event  for  which  all  these  preparations  were 
made  was  soon  to  be  realized.     On  March  14th  he  writes  :  — 
"  The  King's  Troops  are  not  gone  from  Boston  but  we  understand 
they  are  preparing  to  do  it  as  fast  as  possible  —  a  Letter  out  of  Boston 
supposed  to  be  from  Mr  Austin  one  of  the  Selectmen  says  the  Enemy 
have  stripped  him  of  every  thing  worth  carrying  away  &  that  others  are 
sharing  the  same  Fate,  most  of  the  Ships  are  laying  at  Nantasket  Road 
and  seem  to  be  deeply  laden  —  five  of  our  Regiments  together  with  the 
Riflemen  are  ordered  to  march  —  Starks  of  New  Hampshire  ;  Bond's  & 
 - 403 - 
360  MASSACHUSETTS  HISTORICAL   SOCIETY.  [April, 
Greaton's  &  Patterson's  of  Massachusetts  ; &  Webbs  of  Connecticut 
are  the  five  under  Orders  —  the  Riflemen  are  to  go  to  Day  —  the 
others  to  morrow  —  when  &  what  Part  of  the  Remainder  of  the  Army 
will  leave  this  Station  is  not  yet  known  —  it  will  depend  upon  the  fur- 
ther movements  of  the  Enemy  —  I  hope  to  see  Home  on  this  Occasion 
as  our  Motions  will  be  that  way. 
On  the  17th  the  British  flag  left  Boston,  —  never,  let  us 
hope,  to  return  except  in  friendship. 
Roxbury  Camp  17th  March  1776 
Hond  Sir,  —  This  morning  we  had  the  Agreeable  Sight  of  a  number 
of  ships  leaving  the  Town  of  Boston  with  a  large  number  of  Boats  full 
of  Soldiers,  about  ten  of  Clock  several  Lads  came  to  our  out  Gentries 
and  informed  us  that  the  Troops  had  intirely  left  the  Town  and  that 
the  Selectmen  were  coming  out  to  see  us,  soon  after  we  had  the  Pleasure 
of  seeing  Messr3  Austin,  Scolly,  Marshall  &c  —  they  had  an  Interview 
with  the  General  &  gave  him  the  best  Intellegence  they  could  concern- 
ing the  state  of  the  Town  &  the  Intentions  of  the  Enemy  —  the  Enemy 
are  now  all  laying  between  the  Castle  &  Light  House  in  full  View  from 
the  Town  and  make  a  very  formidable  Appearance,  we  shall  keep  a 
sharp  look  out  till  they  are  out  of  Sight  at  least  —  the  Talk  of  the 
Town  is  that  the  Troops  are  gone  to  Hallifax  —  the  Country  ought  to 
be  well  on  their  Guard  in  every  Place  where  it  is  likely  they  will  make 
a  Descent  —  I  expect  most  if  not  all  the  established  Regiments  will  be 
ordered  from  this  Station  as  soon  as  the  Enemy  are  gone  from  the  Bay 
—  where  my  Destination  will  be  I  know  not  I  hope  it  will  give  me  an 
Opportunity  of  seeing  Norwich  —  my  Love  &  Duty  to  Mother  &  all 
&  remain     Your 
dutifull  &  affectionate  son 
J  Huntington 
Honble  Jabez  Huntington. 
And  so  on  that  bright  Sunday  afternoon  in  early  spring  the 
great  fleet  bearing  the  entire  British  army  of  occupation,  to- 
gether with  eleven  hundred  loyalists,  sailed  down  our  beauti- 
ful harbor  as  far  as  Nantasket  Road,  where  the  vessels  lin- 
gered for  
ten  days  longer,  before  they  finally  weighed  anchor 
and  stood  out  to  sea. 
Rev.  Dr.  Lucius  R.  Paige  said  that  had  he  not  been  dis- 
abled by  
bodily  indisposition,  he  would  have  attended  the 
March  meeting.  He  was  the  more  anxious  to  be  present  at  that 
time  because  it  was  so  near  the  anniversary  of  the  commence- 
 - 404 - 
1892.]  REMARKS   BY  REV.  DR.   PAIGE.  361 
ment  of  that  terrible  witchcraft  excitement  which  convulsed 
the  community  two  hundred  years  ago,  and  he  desired  to  ex- 
hibit a  
book  which  may  have  had  some  influence  upon  that 
excitement.  He  had  long  possessed  a  volume  of  Rev.  William 
Perkins's  works  containing  much  concerning  witchcraft,  the 
proper  method  of  detecting  it,  and  the  penalty  which  it  de- 
served. On  the  titlepage  of  the  volume  is  this  inscription  : 
"The  Gift  of  Deacon  Rob!  Sanderson  to  Sam1.1  Parris  March  1, 
1691-2."  Whether  or  not  this  book  rendered  any  aid  to  Mr. 
Parris  as  a  guide  or  stimulus  or  check,  is  questionable  ;  but 
there  cannot  be  much  doubt  concerning  the  good  Deacon's 
intention  in  its  presentation.1 
Dr.  Paige  also  referred  to  a  statement  of  our  former  associ- 
ate, the  Hon.  Richard  Frothingham,  quoted  by  Vice-President 
Adams  in  his  paper  concerning  the  "  Genesis  of  the  Massachu- 
setts Town,"  that  "  the  Charlestown  town-records  contain  the 
earliest  entry  ever  made  in  any  Massachusetts  town-book  indi- 
cating the  formation  of  a  board  of  selectmen."  Although  I 
should  hesitate  to  express  a  doubt  of  Mr.  Frothingham's  accu- 
racy in  
regard  to  almost  any  other  historical  fact,  in  this  case 
his  assumption  of  priority  is  certainly  unfounded.  In  his 
communication  to  the  Antiquarian  Society  and  in  his  "History 
of  Charlestown,"  he  says  that  townsmen  or  selectmen  were 
elected  in  Charlestown  Feb.  10,  1634-5.  But  a  similar  board 
of  officers  was  elected  in  Cambridge  one  week  earlier  ;  namely, 
Feb.  3,  1634-5.     Under  that  date  it  is  recorded  that  — 
"  At  a  general  meeting  of  the  whole  town,  it  was  agreed  upon  by  a 
joint  consent  that  seven  men  should  be  chosen  to  do  the  whole  busi- 
ness of  
the  town,  and  so  to  continue  until  the  first  Monday  in  Novem- 
ber next,  and  until  new  be  chosen  in  their  room  ;  so  there  was  then 
elected  and  chosen  John  Haynes,  Esq.,  Mr.  Symon  Bradstreet,  John 
Taylcott,  William  Westwood,  John  White,  William  Wadsworth  ;  James 
Olmsted,  Constable. 
"It  is  further  ordered,  by  a  joint  consent,  [that]  whatsoever  these 
Townsmen,  thus  chosen,  shall  do,  in  the  compass  of  their  time,  shall 
stand  in  as  full  force  as  if  the  whole  town  did  the  same,  either  for 
making  of  new  orders  or  altering  of  old  ones. 
"  Further,  it  is  ordered,  that  whatsoever  person  they  shall  send  for, 
1  Robert  Sanderson  was  elected  a  deacon  of  the  First  Church  Feb.  14, 1668-9, 
and  died  Oct.  7,  1693.  See  History  of  the  First  Church,  p.  328  ;  
History  of  the 
Old  South  Church,  vol.  i.  p.  49  n.  ; 5   Mass.  Hist.  Coll.,  vol.  v.  p.  385. 
46 
 - 405 - 
362  MASSACHUSETTS   HISTORICAL   SOCIETY.  [April, 
to  help  in  any  business,  and  he  shall  refuse  to  come,  they  shall  have 
power  to  lay  a  fine  upon  him,  and  to  gather  [it]. 
"  Further,  it  is  ordered,  that  they  shall  have  one  to  attend  upon  them, 
to  employ  about  any  business,  at  a  public  charge. 
"  Further,  it  is  ordered,  that  they  shall  meet  every  first  Monday  in  a 
month,  at  [worn  ojf~\  in  the  afternoon,  according  to  the  former  \_ivorn 
offY1 
Dr.  Paige  then  said  that  he  could  not  command  any  lan- 
guage which  would  adequately  express  his  appreciation  of 
the  kindness  to  himself  expressed  by  this  Society  at  its  last 
meeting.  He  would  attempt  nothing  more  than  to  acknowl- 
edge his  profound  gratitude  for  the  assurance  that  during  his 
long  life,  though  laboring  under  many  disadvantages,  he  had 
secured  and  still  retained  the  approbation  and  regard  of  such 
a  group  of  associates.    N 
Rev.  Dr.  Samuel  E.  Herrick  presented  a  copy  of  u  Memo- 
ria  Technica  :  or,  a  New  Method  of  Artificial  Memory,  applied 
to  and  exemplified  in  Chronology,  History,  Geography,  Astron- 
omy," which  he  had  picked  up  in  a  very  ragged  condition  in  a 
bookstall  on  Cornhill,  and  had  had  repaired  and  rebound.  It 
has  on  the  titlepage  the  autograph  of  Robt.  Clive,  with  the 
date  1741,  and  must  have  been  in  the  possession  of  Lord 
Clive  while  he  was  a  school-boy,  and  perhaps  after  he  went 
to  India. 
Mr.  R.  C.  Winthrop,  Jr.,  said  :  — 
I  take  this  opportunity  of  communicating  a  letter,  in  an  un- 
known hand  and  without  signature,  addressed  to  Gov.  John 
Winthrop,  Jr.,  in  November,  1659,  and  indorsed  by  him,  "Copy 
of  Cap*  Peverel's  letter  of  greeting."  This  word  "  greeting  " 
was  evidently  used  in  the  sense  of  lamentation,  as  the  letter 
is  a  sort  of  graphic  jeremiad  over  the  disturbed  condition  of 
England,  the  feuds  prevailing  in  the  Parliamentary  party,  and 
the  rivalry  between  Monk  and  Lambert,  the  writer  intimating 
that  many  good  people  are  so  much  alarmed  at  the  state  of 
affairs  as  to  wish  themselves  in  New  England.  I  find  no  other 
reference  to  this  Captain  Peverel  among  the  Winthrop  papers, 
and  shall  be  grateful  to  any  one  who  can  help  me  to  identify 
him.  Sir  Walter  Scott  has  not  accustomed  us  to  associate  this 
1  History  of  Cambridge,  p.  21. 
 - 406 - 
1892.]  LETTER    OF   CAPTAIN   PEVEREL.  363 
surname  with  Roundhead  officers,  one  of  whom  he  certainly 
was,  as  well  as  an  entertaining  correspondent.  The  letter  is 
written  on  a  sheet  of  foolscap,  and  was  probably  accompanied 
by  a  note  of  explanation  which  is  now  missing.  The  handwrit- 
ing is  
not  that  of  Hugh  Peter,  Fitz-John  Winthrop,  William 
Hooke,  or  Sir  Kenelni  Digby,  the  persons  in  England  with  whom 
John  Winthrop,  Jr.,  habitually  corresponded  at  this  period.  I 
incline  to  think  the  friend  who  sent  it  was  John  Maidston, 
some  time  an  officer  of  the  House  of  Commons,  and  a  connec- 
tion of  
the  Winthrops  through  the  Cloptons.  A  letter  from  him 
to  John  Winthrop,  Jr.,  written  in  March,  1659-60,  describes 
at  great  length  the  state  of  affairs  in  England  for  some  years 
back,  and  gives  an  interesting  account  of  the  character  of  both 
Oliver  and  Richard  Cromwell.  It  was  long  ago  printed  by  us 
in  3  Mass.  Hist.  Coll.,  vol.  i.pp.  185-198;  and  there  is  a  some- 
what inaccurate  version  of  it  in  Birch's  Collection  of  Thurloe's 
State  Papers,  vol.  i.  pp.  763-768.  The  original  letter  (the 
only  one  from  Maidston  among  the  Winthrop  papers)  was 
loaned  to  Governor  Trumbull  during  the  Revolutionary  War, 
and  was  found  among  the  Trumbull  papers  which  came  into 
our  possession  in  1794.  It  perished  in  the  conflagration  which 
destroyed  so  much  valuable  property  of  this  Society  in  1825, 
and  I  cannot  therefore  compare  the  handwriting  with  that  of 
this  Peverel  letter. 
To  the  Worshipfull  John  Winthrop,  Esquire,  Governour  of 
Gonetticott  Colony. 
Things  runne  in  extreame  passion.  Selfe  intrest  (although  strongly 
denyed)  hath  held  the  helme  so  long  that  now  the  Commonwealth  is 
in  danger  of  the  Northern  lands.  For,  since  the  suppression  of  S^ 
George  Boothes  insurrection,  which  did  heave  at  all  &  had  greately  in- 
dangered  the  whole  but  that  his  fellow  gamesters  brought  not  in  their 
stakes,  another  hydious  head  appeared  (in  the  Parliament  account)  & 
they  endeavouring  to  smite  off  9  of  the  cheife  officers  of  the  Army,  as 
Lambert,  Disberow,  &c,  the  Army  gave  them  such  a  purge  as  carryed 
bowells  and  all  along  with  it.  But  the  Parliament  hath  left  such  bones 
of  contention  behinde  them  in  3  acts.  One  is  y*  none  shall  pay  any 
money  into  ye  publique  but  what  was  payable  since  the  yeare  1640, 
upon  payne  of  treason.  Another,  to  make  a  septarchie  of  the  generall- 
ship  betwixt  Fleetwood,  Overton,  Ludlow,  Morley,  Walton,  Haslerig 
and  Monke.  The  other  was  the  displacing  of  the  nine  officers  ;  y* 
Achitophill  himselfe  could  not  finde  a  meane  betwixt  arbitrary  power  & 
 - 407 - 
364  MASSACHUSETTS  HISTORICAL  SOCIETY.  [April, 
destruction.     But  Monke  is  discontented  (and  we  say  he  is  a  Caviliere) 
and  hath  drawn  to  the  borders  of  England  most  of  the  forces  of  Scot- 
land wth  him,  declaring  for  the  late  Parliament  (we  say  a  Parliament 
indefinite),  and  hath  casheered  &  imprisoned  an  hundred  Annabaptist 
officers  (we  say  honest  officers),  and  put  up  deboist  men  in  their  roome. 
A  miracle  it  was  that  Booth  had  not  carryed  all  before  him  against 
Parliament  and  Army  both  ;  a  greater  (if  miracles  have  degrees)  y* 
London  had  not  been  made  like  Munster  at  the  interuption  of  the  late 
Parliament  ; &  a  greater  it  must  be  to  reconcile  Monke  &  Lambert, 
who  are  preparing  one  against  an  other  w1!1  such  heate  of  spirit,  y*  if  the 
frosty  wether  do  not  alay  in  nothing  but  destruction  will  do  it.     New 
Castle  is  sought  after  by  either  side,  &  he  that  first  possesseth  it  will 
have  the  warmest  quarters.     The  Army  (and  Committee  of  Safety  in 
England)  hopes  to  bring  the  warre  into  Scotland,  they  of  Scotland  into 
England,  the  Caviliers  into  both,  &  are  perswaded  that  the  King  of 
Scots,  who  is  now  at  Madrid,  will  be  ready  by  Jannuary  next  w^  a  for- 
midable force  in  Scotland  :  so  that  some  amongst  us  feare  Popery,  some 
Annabaptisme,  some  persecuting  Presbuterianisme.     Really,  Sr,  here  is 
so  horrible  a  distraction  in  mens  minds,  and  contrariety  of  factions  and 
affections,  y*  
poetrie  it  selfe  cannot  feigne  any  thing  y*  can  goe  higher, 
so  that  many  good  people  wish   themselves   in   New  England.     If  I 
should  give  you  the  particculars  since  Aprill  last,  it  would  weary  and 
greive  you  to  read  them,  y*  
the  English  nation  should  seeme  to  be  let 
loose  out  of  Bedlam.     The  Currantors  will  informe  you   who  are  ye 
23  men  of  the  Committees  of  Safety,  in  whose  hands   (if  in  any  par- 
ticular) ye  
governement  is  placed.     To  ym  it  will  (or  must)  be  made 
obey.     Some  men  are  to  have  the  late    dissolved  Parliament    called 
againe  as  the  onely  expedient,  but  such  blockes  are  in  ye  way  y*  it 
seemes  difficult.     By  the  end  of  the  next  sommer  you  will  see  England 
much  changed,  for  the  better  or  worse.1 
Mr.  Justin  Winsor  presented  a  photographic  copy  of  the 
map  of  the  territory  northwest  of  the  Ohio,  made  by  John 
Fitch,  whose  name  is  associated  with  the  beginning  of  steam 
navigation  in  this  country.  This  map,  dated  in  1785,  was  cut 
in  copper  by  Fitch  himself,  in  a  crude,  amateurish  way,  and 
the  impressions  were  made  on  a  rude  press  which  he  con- 
structed for the  purpose.  After  this  he  peddled  the  copies 
through  the  Ohio  Valley,  where  he  lived.  In  the  making  of 
it  he  had  the  countenance  of  Hutchins,  the  official  geographer 
of  the  United  States  at  that  time. 
1  Immediately  after  the  concluding  sentence  the  words  "ye  11  of  October" 
are  stricken  out,  and  "8  day  of  November"  substituted. 
 - 408 - 
1892.]  REMARKS   BY   JUSTIN   WINSOR.  365 
When  Professor  Ebeling  gathered  his  books  and  maps  at 
the  end  of  the  last  century,  he  secured  this  map,  and  it  came 
with  his  collection  to  Harvard  College  Library  in  1818.  If  I 
had  not  been  often  taught  to  say  that  nothing  is  "  unique," 
I  should  venture  to  use  that  word  now.  I  at  least  know  of 
no  other  copy.  The  British  Museum  does  not  possess  one  ; 
and  Mr.  C.  C.  Baldwin,  of  Cleveland,  who  has  written  on  the 
geographical  history  of  Ohio,  has  collected,  during  the  last 
thirty  years,  the  most  extensive  gathering  of  maps  illustrating 
that  subject,  from  the  earliest  period  of  mapping  the  Ohio 
River  and  the  basin  of  the  Great  Lakes,  and  Mr.  Baldwin  tells 
me  he  has  never  seen  the  map.  The  late  Col.  Charles  Whit- 
tlesey, in a  little  memoir  of  Fitch,  speaks  of  the  map,  and 
gives  a  brief  description  of  it ;  but  I  do  not  know  what  copy 
he  had  seen,  if,  indeed,  his  description  implies  the  seeing  of 
one. 
Recently  there  has  come  up  in  Ohio  a  question  as  to  the 
locality  of  u  Standing  Stone,"  which  is  mentioned  in  old  deeds 
and  other  documents,  and  neither  Mr.  Baldwin  nor  any  other 
could  decide  the  position  of  this  "  Standing  Stone."  I  think 
the  matter  pertains  to  county  lines,  and  is  before  the  courts. 
I  was  addressed  to  settle  the  question  if  I  could  ;  and  I  found 
the  name,  and  a  minute  indication  of  the  "  Stone,"  in  this 
map,  on  an  affluent  of  the  Muskingum  River,  in  the  southeast 
corner  of  the  State.  I  sent  a  sketch  of  this  part  of  the  map, 
and  in  return  got  a  request  for  a  photograph  of  the  entire  map. 
With  this  request  I  complied,  and  I  have  had  an  extra  impres- 
sion made,  which  I  now  give  to  the  Society. 
It  is  somewhat  smaller  than  the  original,  but  the  reduction 
does  not  obscure  any  legend  upon  it.  There  are  two  points  in 
the  map  —  one  political,  and  the  other  geographical  —  which 
are  worth  noticing.  Jefferson's  Ordinance  of  1784  provided 
for  the  marking  out  of  several  new  States  in  this  region,  and 
he  applied  some  fanciful  names  to  these  political  divisions. 
The  project  was  not  consummated,  and  this  map  shows  the 
proposed  bounds  of  these  prospective  States.  The  other  point 
is  the  bad  mapping  of  Lake  Superior,  which  is  very  much 
inferior  to  that  of  the  Jesuit  map  of  the  lake  published  in 
Paris  in  1671.  It  proves  that  Hutchins,  who  of  all  Americans 
should  have  known  of  that  Jesuit  map,  was  wholly  ignorant 
of  it,  as  was  probably  every  one,  then  and  for  some  years 
 - 409 - 
366  MASSACHUSETTS  HISTORICAL  SOCIETY.  [April, 
afterward,  of  some  of  the  best  work  in  cartographical  labors 
done  in  this  western  country  by  the  early  French  traders  and 
missionaries. 
The  business  of  the  Annual  Meeting  was  then  taken 
up,  and  Mr.  Roger  Wolcott  submitted  the  report  of  the 
Council. 
Report  of  the  Council. 
The  year  now  ended  opened  with  two  vacancies  in  our  list  of 
Resident  Members.  This  number  has  been  increased  to  four 
during  the  year  by  the  death  of  Augustus  Thorndike  Perkins 
and  of  James  Russell  Lowell,  —  the  one  a  cultivated  and  ac- 
complished gentleman,  whose  presence  possessed  singular  at- 
traction through  its  characteristic  trait  of  manly  courtesy  ; 
the  other  easily  taking  rank  among  the  foremost  men  ot  letters 
of  the  world,  and  not  less  worthy  to  be  held  in  honorable  mem- 
ory because  of  his  pure  and  burning  patriotism.  There  have 
been  elected  as  Resident  Members,  Oliver  Wendell  Holmes, 
Jr.,  Henry  Pickering  Walcott,  and  John  Fiske.  We  thus 
enter  upon  the  new  year  with  but  one  vacancy  in  our  roll  of 
Resident  Membership. 
Of  Corresponding  Members  we  have  lost  by  death  the  fol- 
lowing :  
Benson  J.  Lossing,  Lyman  C.  Draper,  Richard  Henry 
Major,  Eclmond  de  Pressense,  Thomas  B.  Akins,  Benjamin 
Scott,  Thomas  Hill,  E.  Edwards  Beardsley,  John  Gilmary 
Shea,  George  W.  Cullum. 
Of  our  Honorary  Members  we  have  lost  since  our  last 
monthly  meeting,  Edward  A.  Freeman. 
No  action  has  been  taken  during  the  year  to  make  good 
these  losses,  partly,  perhaps,  through  the  feeling  that  in  the 
past  the  Society  has  unduly  extended  the  list  of  Correspond- 
ing Members,  and  the  resolve  that  in  the  future  the  honor  of 
membership  should  be  more  restricted. 
On  the  motion  of  one  of  its  members  the  Council  has  given 
much  thought  to  devising  some  more  systematic  method  to 
govern  the  presentation  to  the  Society  of  candidates  for  elec- 
tion. It  
was  felt  that  the  selection  of  one  among  the  many 
whose  names  appear  upon  our  nominating-list  —  most  or  all 
of  whom  are  presumably  possessed  of  sufficient  qualifications 
for  membership  —  had  been  occasionally  determined  by  chance 
or  friendship,  and  a  natural  unwillingness  to  oppose  the  wish 
 - 410 - 
1892.]  REPORT   OF   THE   COUNCIL.  367 
of  others.  It  was  to  eliminate  so  far  as  possible  this  personal 
or  accidental  element,  and  to  make  certain  that  every  nomi- 
nation hereafter  made  by  the  Council  shall  have  been  carefully 
considered  from  various  points  of  view,  and  shall  bear  some 
definite  relation  to  previous  and  subsequent  nominations,  that 
the  Council  adopted  the  report  of  a  sub-committee  on  the  sub- 
ject, which  was  afterward  communicated  to  the  Society  and 
received  its  approval.  It  is  therefore  necessary  only  to  refer 
to  its  substance  here.  While  recognizing  that  pre-eminent 
fitness  may  at  any  time  justify  an  exception  to  the  method  it 
prescribes,  and  disclaiming  any  wish  to  fetter  by  hard  and  fast 
rules  the  action  of  Council  or  Society,  the  report  provides  that 
in  October  of  each  year  a  sub-committee  of  the  Council  shall 
consider  and  report  a  list  of  ten  names  as  candidates  ;  that  these 
names,  as  vacancies  occur,  shall  be  acted  upon  by  the  Council 
in  the  order  in  which  they  stand,  except  for  cause  shown,  and 
that  in  the  decision  both  of  sub-committee  and  of  Council  the 
determining  considerations  shall  be,  first  (but  to  a  limited  degree 
only),  locality  of  residence  within  the  State,  so  that  the  So- 
ciety may  not  cease  to  be  a  Massachusetts  Society  ;  secondly, 
the  possession  of  historical  acquirements,  so  that  the  Society 
may  not  cease  to  be  an  Historical  Society  ;  and,  thirdly  (but 
again  within  strict  limits),  the  recognition  justly  due  to  broad 
and  liberal  culture,  generous  public  spirit,  and  to  such  social 
or  official  standing  as  may  be  won  by  adequate  talents  wor- 
thily employed.  It  should  not  be  impossible  for  Maecsenas  to 
win  an  occasional  smile  from  Clio  as  well  as  from  other  of  the 
sisterhood. 
The  Council  ventures  to  call  attention  to  what  appears  to  be 
the  growing  custom  of  members  to  submit  communications  at 
our  monthly  meetings  without  reading  them,  and  with  only  a 
request  that  they  appear  in  the  printed  Proceedings.  This 
may  sometimes  be  necessarj^  where  long  monographs  are  pre- 
sented, or  papers  bristling  with  lists  of  names  or  figures,  and 
such  papers  are  often  of  the  greatest  value  ;  
but  even  in  these 
cases  an  abstract  might  often  be  presented  orally  which  should 
bring  the  subject  vividly  before  the  attention  of  the  Society, 
and  would  very  frequently  be  the  means  of  throwing  new 
illumination  upon  it  through  discussion  and  suggestion.  To 
enrich  posterity  by  contributions  of  permanent  historical  value, 
is  without  doubt  one  of  the  purposes  for  which  the  Society 
 - 411 - 
368  MASSACHUSETTS  HISTORICAL  SOCIETY.  [April, 
exists  ;  
but  the  Council  deems  that  a  duty  of  equal  obligation 
rests  upon  officers  and  members  alike  to  neglect  no  effort  to 
make  our  monthly  meetings  so  vitally  interesting  as  to  compel 
a  large  attendance. 
The  Council  would  say  a  word  to  correct  an  impression 
which  may  exist  among  our  own  members  or  elsewhere  that 
the  funds  of  the  Society  are  amply  sufficient  for  all  its  pur- 
poses. This  is  certainly  not  the  case.  It  is  not  difficult  to 
see  many  directions  in  which  larger  funds  might  be  wisely 
expended,  and  are  indeed  imperatively  needed  if  the  Society 
is  to  continue  to  be  the  principal  depository  of  historical  ma- 
terial in  
New  England,  and  the  foremost  agency  in  preserving 
it  and  in  rendering  it  available  for  future  historical  students. 
With  the  present  means  at  our  disposal  this  material  cannot 
be  made  most  easily  accessible  ;  it  cannot  receive  by  purchase 
such  liberal  and  necessary  additions  as  are  from  time  to  time 
offered  at  public  sale,  and  which  we  have  long  been  perforce 
content  to  see  borne  off  by  individuals  or  other  libraries.  Ex- 
cept by  
gift  we  can  hope  to  increase  but  very  slowly  our  col- 
lection of  
manuscripts,  which  from  their  inestimable  value 
as  sources  of  history,  and  from  their  unique  and  perishable 
character,  it  should  be  pre-eminently  the  duty  of  an  historical 
society  to  collect  and  preserve  ;  nor  can  we  hope  to  accom- 
plish much  in  carrying  out  the  excellent  suggestion  embodied 
in  last  year's  report  of  the  Committee  on  the  Library  and 
Cabinet,  that  from  time  to  time  uniform  copies  should  be 
made  of  valuable  unprinted  manuscripts  wherever  they  exist, 
with  the  purpose  both  of  preserving  the  originals  from  wear 
and  tear  and  of  facilitating  reference  to  the  copies.  For  these 
and  many  other  purposes  more  ample  funds  are  much  needed. 
The  publications  of  the  Society  since  our  last  annual  meeting 
have  been  as  follows;  — 
Proceedings,  2d  series,  Vol.  VI,  1890,  1891. 
Also  a  serial  number  of  the  same  volume  (April  and  May,  1891), 
and  two  of  Vol.  VII.,  2d  series  (October,  1891,  to  February,  1892). 
The  following  have  been  the  publications  of  members  of  the 
Society  :  — 
History  of  Braintree,  Massachusetts  (1639-1708),  the  North  Pre- 
cinct of  
Braintree  (1708-1792),  and  the  Town  of  Quincy  (1792-1889). 
By  Charles  Francis  Adams. 
 - 412 - 
1892.]  REPORT   OF   THE   COUNCIL.  869 
Positive  Pedigrees  and  Authorized  Arms  of  New  England.  By 
William  S.  Appleton. 
The  Family  of  Merriam  of  Massachusetts.     By  William  S.  Appleton. 
Three  Essays  on  the  History,  Religion,  and  Art  of  Ancieut  Egypt. 
By  Martin  Brimmer. 
Laws  of  the  United  States  relating  to  Currency,  Finance,  and  Bank- 
ing, from  1789  to  1891.     Compiled  by  Charles  F.  Dunbar. 
Recollections  and  Impressions,  1822-1890.  By  Octavius  B.  Froth- 
ingham. 
The  Present  and  Future  of  Harvard  College.  Address  delivered 
before  the  Phi  Beta  Kappa  Society  at  Cambridge,  Mass.,  25  June, 
1891.     By  William  W.  Goodwin. 
Groton  Historical  Series  :  Nos.  II.  to  VI.  of  Vol.  III.  By  Samuel 
A.  Green. 
An  Account  of  the  Lawyers  of  Groton,  Massachusetts.  With  an 
Appendix.     By  Samuel  A.  Green. 
The  Story  of  Massachusetts.  By  Edward  Everett  Hale.  [The 
Story  of  the  States,  Vol.  VIII.      Edited  by  Elbridge  S.  Brooks.] 
Richard  Henry  Dana.      By  Hamilton  A.  Hill. 
Charles  Devens,  Henry  M.  Dexter,  Edward  I.  Thomas.  By  George 
F.  Hoar. 
Government  in  Canada  and  the  United  States  compared.  By  George 
F.  Hoar. 
Will  of  Charles  Hoare,  of  Gloucester,  England.  With  Notes  by 
George  F.  Hoar. 
Historic  Towns  :  Boston.  By  Henry  Cabot  Lodge.  Edited  by 
Edward  A.  Freeman. 
Speeches  by  Henry  Cabot  Lodge. 
American  Statesmen  Series.  Edited  by  John  T.  Morse,  Jr.  Lewis 
Cass.     By  Andrew  C.  McLaughlin. 
The  Public  Libraries  of  Massachusetts.     By  Henry  S.  Nourse. 
The  Divine  Comedy  of  Dante  Alighieri.  Translated  by  Charles 
Eliot  Norton.     Vols.  I.,  II. 
Internal  Token  of  Authorship  in  the  Fourth  Gospel.  By  Andrew 
P.  Peabody. 
The  Life  and  Times  of  Plato.     By  Andrew  P.  Peabody. 
Slavery  as  it  appeared  to  a  Northern  Man  in  1844.  By  Andrew  P. 
Peabody. 
American  Commonwealths.  Edited  by  Horace  E.  Scudder.  Ver- 
mont: a  
Study  of  Independence.     By  Rowland  E.  Robinson. 
Diocese  of  Massachusetts  :  the  Enrichment  of  its  Library.  By  Ed- 
mund F.  
Slafter. 
Christopher  Columbus,  and  how  he  received  and  imparted  the  Spirit 
of  Discovery.     By  Justin  Winsor. 
Roger  Wolcott, 
Senior  Member  at  Large  of  the  Council 
47 
 - 413 - 
370  MASSACHUSETTS   HISTORICAL  SOCIETY.  [April, 
In  the  absence  of  Mr.  James  M.  Bugbee,  Chairman  of  the 
Committee  to  examine  the  Library  and  Cabinet,  Mr.  Henry 
W.  Haynes  read  their  report :  — 
Report  of  the  Committee  on  the  Library  and  Cabinet. 
The  Committee  appointed  to  examine  the  Library  and 
Cabinet  have  attended  to  that  duty  and  submit  the  following 
report :  — 
The  provision  of  the  By-Laws  under  which  this  report  is 
made  went  into  operation  for  the  first  time  in  1889.  In  the 
three  reports  presented  since  that  date,  a  number  of  valuable 
recommendations  and  suggestions  have  been  made  with  a  view 
to  enlarging  and  making  more  accessible  the  collections  of 
the  Society.  The  ground  has  been  so  fulty  covered  that  this 
Committee  find  little  to  add  to  what  has  already  been  offered. 
The  Librarian  has  shown  excellent  judgment  in  the  use  of 
the  small  amount  of  money  placed  at  his  disposal  for  purchas- 
ing books,  completing  sets  of  documents  and  files  of  news- 
papers, and  repairing  and  binding  volumes  which  could  not 
be  used  without  danger  of  becoming  mutilated.  He  would  be 
glad  to  do  more,  especially  in  the  way  of  binding  the  complete 
files  of  newspapers,  and  repairing  the  broken  bindings  of  old 
volumes,  as  soon  as  an  appropriation  of  money  can  be  made 
for  that  purpose. 
The  suggestion  offered  by  the  Committee  of  last  year,  that 
our  valuable  collection  of  manuscripts  should  be  more  care- 
fully preserved,  and  made  more  accessible  to  members  of  the 
Society  and  others  interested  in  historical  studies,  seems  to  this 
Committee  well  worth  repeating.  Something,  it  is  true,  has 
been  accomplished  during  the  past  year  towards  making  this 
collection  better  known  and  more  convenient  for  reference  ; 
but  much  remains  to  be  done. 
A  fairly  good  card  catalogue  of  the  manuscripts,  and  of  their 
contents,  has  recently  been  completed.  The  Trumbull  papers, 
which  are  among  the  most  important  of  our  collections,  have 
been  substantially  calendared  and  indexed  ;  and  it  is  under- 
stood that  the  original  papers  are  all  to  be  printed  as  the 
means  for  so  doing  are  available.  The  calendar  of  the  Picker- 
ing papers  has  been  completed,  and  would,  if  printed,  make 
two  large  volumes  with  double  columns. 
 - 414 - 
1892.]  REPORT   OF   THE   LIBRARIAN.  371 
Of  the  other  manuscripts  in  the  Society's  collections,  it  is 
said  by  those  who  have  examined  them  that  there  are  prob- 
ably none  that  are  suitable  to  be  calendared.  But  some  of 
them,  at  least,  are  not  in  such  a  state  as  to  be  used  for  fre- 
quent reference  without  injury.  All  manuscripts  in  that  con- 
dition should  be  copied  ;  and  it  seems  to  your  Committee  that 
there  is  no  object  to  which  the  available  funds  of  the  Society 
could  be  more  usefully  applied. 
The  Committee  take  pleasure  in  commending  the  general 
administration  of  the  Library  and  the  Cabinet,  and  in  recog- 
nizing the  great  obligations  of  the  Society  to  Dr.  Samuel  A. 
Green  and  Dr.  Fitch  Edward  Oliver  for  their  long,  valuable, 
and  disinterested  services.  The  Librarian^  assistants,  Mr. 
Julius  H.  Tuttle  and  Mr.  Alfred  B.  Page,  are  also  entitled  to 
commendation  for  the  faithful  and  efficient  performance  of 
their  duties. 
James  M.  Bugbee. 
A.  Lawrence   Lowell. 
Henry  W.  Haynes. 
Boston,  April  14,  1892. 
Dr.  Samuel  A.  Green,  Librarian,  submitted  his  report  as 
follows  :  — 
Report  of  the  Librarian. 
During  the  past  year  there  have  been  added  to  the  Li- 
brary —: 
Books                                                                                          549 
Pamphlets                                                                              1,485 
Unbound  volumes  of  newspapers         22 
Broadsides                                                                                         100 
Maps                                                                                       8 
Volumes  of  manuscripts          4 
Manuscripts                                                                                     96 
In  all    .                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      2,264 
Of  the  books  added,  438  have  been  given,  109  bought,  and 
2  obtained  by  exchange.  Of  the  pamphlets  added,  1,311  have 
been  given,  168  bought,  and  6  procured  by  exchange. 
From  the  income  of  the  Savage  Fund,  there  have  been 
bought  109  volumes  and  168  pamphlets;  and  21  volumes 
have  been  bound  at  the  charge  of  the  same  fund. 
 - 415 - 
372  MASSACHUSETTS   HISTORICAL  SOCIETY.  [April, 
From  the  income  of  the  William  Winthrop  Fund,  56  vol- 
umes have  been  bound. 
Of  the  books  added  to  the  Rebellion  Department,  26  have 
been  given  and  41  bought  ;  and  of  the  pamphlets  added,  32 
have  been  given  and  22  bought.  There  are  now  in  this  col- 
lection, 1,923  volumes,  4,594  pamphlets,  787  broadsides,  and 
105  maps. 
In  the  collection  of  manuscripts  there  are  742  volumes,  161 
unbound  volumes,  75  pamphlets  with  manuscript  notes,  and 
7,113  manuscripts. 
The  Library  contains  at  the  present  time  about  35,700 
volumes,  including  the  files  of  bound  newspapers,  the  bound 
manuscripts,  and  the  Dowse  Collection.  The  number  of 
pamphlets,  including  duplicates,  is  92,630  ;  and  the  number 
of  broadsides,  including  duplicates,  is  3,626. 
During  the  year  there  have  been  taken  out,  73  books  and 
7  pamphlets,  and  all  have  been  returned. 
Respectfully  submitted, 
Samuel  A.  Green,  Librarian. 
Boston,  April  14,  1892. 
Dr.  Fitch  Edward  Oliver,  Cabinet-keeper,  read  his 
annual  report  :  — 
Report  of  the  Cabinet-keeper. 
The  Cabinet-keeper  begs  respectfully  to  report  that  the  fol- 
lowing articles,  a  detailed  list  of  which  is  given  below,  have 
been  presented  to  the  Cabinet  during  the  past  year  :  — 
Twenty-one  photographs. 
Several  heliotypes,  comprising  a  collection  of  views  in  Dedham. 
A  treasurer's  note  of  the  State  of  Massachusetts  Bay  for  £15,  dated 
June  1,  1779,  in  payment  of  a  prize  of  the  Massachusetts  State  Lot- 
tery, —  
Class  the  Third. 
Three  engravings. 
Copies  of  three  Dutch  medals. 
Two  lithographs. 
One  albertype. 
Three  autotypes. 
One  carved  wooden  goblet. 
One  pike-head,  said  to  have  been  picked  up  on  one  of  the  battlefields 
after  the  late  Civil  War. 
 - 416 - 
1892. J  REPORT   OF   THE   CABINET-KEEPER.  373 
The  detailed  list  is  as  follows  :  — 
A  photograph  by  Baldwin  Coolidge,  in  1888,  of  an  interior  view  of 
the  Webster  House,  Marshfield,  showing  articles  supposed  once  to  be- 
long to  
Peregrine  White.      Given  by  Baldwin  Coolidge. 
A  photograph  of  the  antlers  of  a  moose,  taken  from  those  owned  by 
the  Society,  by  Baldwin  Coolidge,  April,  1891.  Given  by  Baldwin 
Coolidge. 
Eighteen  photographic  views  taken  in  Salem  by  the  Moulton  Erick- 
son  Company.     Given  by  the  Essex  Institute. 
A  collection  of  heliotype  views  from  photographs  taken  in  Dedham 
in  the  spring  of  1891.     Given  by  Donald  Ramsay. 
A  heliotype  of  the  fireplace  in  the  library  of  the  Dedham  Historical 
Society,  from  a  photograph  taken  in  September,  1891.  Given  by  the 
Dedham  Historical  Society. 
A  heliotype  of  Marquis  de  Lafayette.  Given  by  Dr.  Samuel  A. 
Green. 
A  photograph  of  an  oil  painting  of  Jonathan  Belcher  in  the  Society's 
Library,  taken  by  J.  W.  Black,  Sept.  24,  1891.     Given  by  J.  Wells. 
A  treasurer's  note  of  the  State  of  Massachusetts  Bay  for  £15,  in 
payment  of  a  prize  of  the  Massachusetts  State  Lottery,  Class  the  Third, 
dated  June  1,  1779.     Given  by  William  Henry  Smith. 
A  half-tone  picture  of  Robert  Bailey  Thomas,  made  for  the  centen- 
nial number  of  the  "Old  Farmer's  Almanac"  for  1892,  from  a  painting 
in  the  possession  of  the  American  Antiquarian  Society,  1891.  Given 
by  Dr.  Samuel  A.  Green. 
A  pike-head  found  on  a  battlefield.  Given  by  Dr.  Robert  Battey,  of 
Rome,  Georgia. 
An  engraving  of  Robert  Bennet  Forbes,  by  J.  A.  J.  Wilcox.  Given 
by  J.  Murray  Forbes. 
Copies  of  three  Dutch  medals  struck  to  commemorate  the  Indepen- 
dence of  
the  United  States,  1782,  and  the  Treaty  of  Commerce  and 
Navigation  with  the  Netherlands  signed  the  same  year.  Given  by 
Samuel    R.  Thayer,  American  Minister  at  the  Hague. 
A  lithographic  view  of  the  residence  of  Stephen  Robbins  in  Lex- 
ington, and  a  woodcut  of  the  "  Follen  Church  "  and  residence  of  Dr. 
Charles  Follen.     Given  by  Miss  Ellen  Adelia  Stone. 
An  albertype  of  Augustus  P.  Martin,  by  the  Forbes  Company,  Bos- 
ton.    Given  by  Dr.  Samuel  A.  Green. 
Three  autotypes  made  in  New  York,  1891,  —  two  of  Ebenezer  and 
Mrs.  Hazard,  after  portraits  by  Du  Vivier  in  1796,  in  possession  of 
the  family;  and  one  of  Mr.  Hazard,  after  a  portrait  painted  in  1816. 
Given  by  Willis  Pope  Hazard,  Westchester,  Pennsylvania. 
A  lithographic  view  of  the  United  States   Frigate  "  Constitution," 
 - 417 - 
374  MASSACHUSETTS   HISTORICAL  SOCIETY.  [April, 
by  James  Kidder,  after  a  drawing  by  William  Marsh,  Jr.  Given  by 
Miss  Ellen  Adelia  Stone. 
A  carved  wooden  goblet.     Bequeathed  by  Dr.  Buckminster  Brown. 
Engravings  of  Rev.  Joseph  Sewall  and  Rev.  George  W.  Blagden. 
Given  by  Hamilton  A.  Hill. 
It  may  be  added  that  there  is  nothing  in  the  present  condi- 
tion of  
the  Cabinet  that  requires  special  notice. 
Respectfully  submitted, 
Fitch  Edward  Oliver,  Cabinet-keeper. 
Boston,  April  14,  1892. 
The  reports  of  the  Treasurer  and  the  Auditing  Committee 
were  submitted  in  print.     They  are  as  follows  :  — 
Report  of  the   Treasurer. 
In  compliance  with  the  requirements  of  the  By-Laws,  Chap- 
ter VII.,  Article  1,  the  Treasurer  respectfully  submits  his 
Annual  Report,  made  up  to  March  31,  1892. 
The  special  funds  held  by  him  are  the  same  as  they  were  at 
the  date  of  his  last  Annual  Report.  They  are  eleven  in  num- 
ber, and  are  as  follows  :  — 
I.  The  Appleton  Fund,  which  was  created  Nov.  18, 1854, 
by  a  gift  to  the  Society,  from  Nathan  Appleton,  William  Ap- 
pleton, and-  Nathaniel  I.  Bowditch,  trustees  under  the  will  of 
the  late  Samuel  Appleton,  of  stocks  of  the  appraised  value  of 
ten  thousand  dollars.  These  stocks  were  subsequently  sold 
for  $12,203,  at  which  sum  the  fund  now  stands.  The  income 
is  applicable  to  "  the  procuring,  preserving,  preparation,  and 
publication  of  historical  papers." 
II.  The  Massachusetts  Historical  Trust-Fund,  which 
now  stands,  with  the  accumulated  income,  at  $10,000.  This 
fund  originated  in  a  gift  of  two  thousand  dollars  from  the  late 
Hon.  David  Sears,  presented  Oct.  15,  1855,  and  accepted  by 
the  Society  Nov.  8,  1855.  On  Dec.  26,  1866,  it  was  increased 
by  a  gift  of  five  hundred  dollars  from  Mr.  Sears,  and  another 
of  the  same  amount  from  our  late  associate,  Mr.  Nathaniel 
Thayer.  The  income  must  be  appropriated  in  accordance 
with  the  directions  in  Mr.  Sears's  declaration  of  trust  in  the 
printed  Proceedings  for  November,  1855. 
 - 418 - 
1892.]  REPORT   OF   THE   TREASURER.  375 
III.  The  Dowse  Fund,  which  was  given  to  the  Society 
by  George  Livermore  and  Eben.  Dale,  executors  of  the  will  of 
the  late  Thomas  Dowse,  April  9, 1857,  for  the  "  safe  keeping  " 
of  the  Dowse  Library.     It  amounts  to  $10,000. 
IV.  The  Peabody  Fund,  which  was  presented  by  the 
late  George  Peabody,  in  a  letter  dated  Jan.  1,  1867,  and  now 
stands  at  $22,123.  The  income  is  available  only  for  the  pub- 
lication and  illustration  of  the  Society's  Proceedings  and  Me- 
moirs, and  for  the  preservation  of  the  Society's  Historical 
Portraits. 
V.  The  Savage  Fund,  which  was  a  bequest  from  the  late 
Hon.  James  Savage,  received  in  June,  1873,  and  now  stands 
on  the  books  at  the  sum  of  $6,000.  The  income  is  to  be  used 
for  the  increase  of  the  Society's  Library. 
VI.  The  Erastus  B.  Bigelow  Fund,  which  was  given  in 
February,  1881,  by  Mrs.  Helen  Bigelow  Merriman,  in  recog- 
nition of  
her  father's  interest  in  the  work  of  the  Society.  The 
original  sum  was  one  thousand  dollars  ;  but  the  interest  up  to 
this  date  having  been  added  to  the  principal,  it  now  stands  at 
$1,861.28.  There  is  no  restriction  as  to  the  use  to  be  made 
of  this  fund. 
VII.  The  William  Winthrop  Fund,  which  amounts  to 
the  sum  of  $3,000,  and  was  received  Oct.  13,  1882,  under  the 
will  of  the  late  William  Winthrop,  for  many  years  a  Corre- 
sponding Member  of  the  Societ^v.  The  income  is  to  be  applied 
"  to  the  binding  for  better  preservation  of  the  valuable  manu- 
scripts and  books  appertaining  to  the  Society." 
VIII.  The  Richard  Frothingham  Fund,  which  repre- 
sents a  
gift  to  the  Society,  on  the  23d  of  March,  1883,  from 
the  widow  of  our  late  Treasurer,  of  a  certificate  of  twenty 
shares  in  the  Union  Stock  Yard  and  Transit  Co.,  of  Chicago, 
of  the  par  value  of  $100  each,  and  of  the  stereotype  plates 
of  Mr.  Frothingham's  "  Siege  of  Boston,"  "  Life  of  Joseph 
Warren,"  and  "  Rise  of  the  Republic."  The  fund  stands  on 
the  Treasurer's  books  at  $3,000,  exclusive  of  the  copyright. 
There  are  no  restrictions  on  the  uses  to  which  the  income  may 
be  applied. 
IX.  The  General  Fund,  which  now  amounts  to  $8,000. 
It  represents  the  following  gifts  and  payments  to  the  Society  : 
1.  A  gift  of  two  thousand  dollars  from  the  residuary  estate 
of  the  late  Mary  Prince  Townsend,  by  the  executors  of  her 
 - 419 - 
376  MASSACHUSETTS  HISTORICAL  SOCIETY.  [April, 
I 
will,  William  Minot  and  William  Minot,  Jr.,  in  recognition  of 
which,  by  a  vote  of  the  Society,  passed  June  13,  1861,  the 
Treasurer  was  u  directed  to  make  and  keep  a  special  entry  in 
his  account  books  of  this  contribution  as  the  donation  of  Miss 
Mary  P.  Townsend." 
2.  A  legacy  of  two  thousand  dollars  from  the  late  Henry 
Harris,  received  in  July,  1867. 
3.  A  legacy  of  one  thousand  dollars  from  the  late  George 
Bemis,  received  in  March,  1879. 
4.  A  gift  of  one  hundred  dollars  from  the  late  Ralph 
Waldo  Emerson,  received  in  April,  1881. 
5.  A  legacy  of  one  thousand  dollars  from  the  late  Williams 
Latham,  received  in  May,  1884. 
6.  A  bequest  of  five  shares  in  the  Cincinnati  Gas-Light  and 
Coke  Co.  from  our  late  Recording  Secretary,  George  Dexter, 
received  in  June,  1884. 
7.  Six  commutation  fees  of  one  hundred  and  fifty  dollars 
each. 
X.  The  Anonymous  Fund,  which  originated  in  a  gift  of 
$1,000  to  the  Society  in  April,  1887,  communicated  in  a  letter 
to  the  Treasurer  printed  in  the  Proceedings  (2d  series,  vol.  iii. 
pp.  277,  278).  A  further  gift  of  $250  was  received  from  the 
same  generous  friend  in  April,  1888.  The  income  up  to  the 
present  time  has  been  added  to  the  principal.  The  fund  now 
stands  at  $1,611.10. 
XI.  The  William  Amory  Fund,  which  was  a  gift  of 
$3,000,  under  the  will  of  our  associate,  the  late  William 
Amory,  received  Jan.  7,  1889.  There  are  no  restrictions  on 
the  uses  to  which  the  income  may  be  applied. 
The  Treasurer  also  holds  a  deposit  book  in  the  Five  Cent 
Savings  Bank  for  $100  and  interest,  which  is  applicable  to  the 
care  and  preservation  of  the  beautiful  model  of  the  Brattle 
Street  Church,  deposited  with  us  in  April,  1877. 
It  should  not  be  forgotten  that  besides  the  gifts  and  bequests 
represented  by  these  funds,  which  the  Treasurer  is  required  to 
take  notice  of  in  his  Annual  Report,  numerous  gifts  have  been 
made  to  the  Society  from  time  to  time,  and  expended  for  the 
purchase  of  the  real  estate,  or  in  promoting  the  objects  for 
which  the  Society  was  organized.  A  detailed  account  of  these 
gifts  was  included  in  the  Annual  Report  of  the  Treasurer, 
dated  March  31,  1887,  printed  in  the  Proceedings  (2d  series, 
 - 420 - 
1892.]  REPORT   OF  THE  TREASURER.  377 
vol.  iii.  pp.  291-296)  ;  and  in  the  list  of  the  givers  there  enu- 
merated will  be  found  the  names  of  many  honored  associates, 
living  or  departed,  and  of  other  gentlemen,  not  members  of 
the  Society,  who  were  interested  in  the  promotion  of  historical 
studies.  They  gave  liberally  in  the  day  of  small  things  ;  and 
to  them  the  Society  is  largely  indebted  for  its  present  prosper- 
ity and  usefulness. 
During  the  year  the  seven  per  cent  bonds  of  the  Boston  and 
Albany  Railroad  Company,  to  the  amount  of  $21,000,  which 
had  been  held  for  the  Peabody  Fund  since  1874,  matured  and 
were  paid  off.  As  the  rate  of  income  which  can  be  derived 
from  any  securities  such  as  this  Society  can  safely  hold  has 
very  much  declined  since  that  time,  it  has  been  thought  best 
to  merge  with  the  general  investments  held  for  our  various 
funds,  the  securities  bought  for  reinvestment,  and  to  credit,  in 
future,  to  the  Income  of  the  Peabody  Fund  its  proportional 
part  of  the  Consolidated  Income. 
Since  the  mortgage  on  the  Society's  building  was  finally  ex- 
tinguished in  
July,  1886,  the  Treasurer  has  been  able  to  con- 
tinue without  interruption  the  reinvestment  of  the  funds  which 
had  been  temporarily  invested  in  the  building.  The  amount 
thus  invested  is  $9,964.17,  against  $16,990.94  last  year,  a  re- 
duction of  
$7,026.77  during  the  year.  The  investments  stand 
on  the  books  at  $70,831.21,  their  actual  cost  ;  but  when  the 
whole  sum  has  been  reinvested,  it  will  be  the  duty  of  whoever 
may  then  be  Treasurer  to  charge  off  from  time  to  time  a  suffi- 
cient sum  to  reduce  all  stocks  and  bonds  to  their  par  value, 
with  a  view  to  the  gradual  increase  of  the  income  apportioned 
to  each  fund.  The  amount  applied  to  the  reinvestment  of  our 
permanent  funds  has  been  considerably  increased  by  the  cir- 
cumstance that  the  largest  part  of  the  bills  for  printing  the 
Collections  and  Proceedings  w7ill  not  be  due  until  some  time 
in  the  next  financial  year  ;  
but  it  is  not  probable  that  there  will 
be  on  this  account  any  reduction  next  year  in  the  amount 
usually  available  for  reinvestment. 
The  stocks  and  bonds  held  by  the  Treasurer  are  as  follows  : 
$10,000  in  the  five  per  cent  mortgage  bonds  of  the  Chicago 
and  West  Michigan  Railroad  Co.  ;  
$5,000  in  the  four  per  cent 
bonds  of  the  Rio  Grande  Western  Railroad  Co.  ;  $5,000  in  the 
four  per  cent  bonds  of  the  Chicago,  Burlington,  and  Quincy 
Railroad  Co.  ;  
$5,000  in  the  five  per  cent  gold  bonds  of  the 
48 
 - 421 - 
378  MASSACHUSETTS   HISTORICAL   SOCIETY.  [April, 
Cincinnati,  Dayton,  and  Iron  ton  Railroad  Co.  ;  $5,000  in  the 
four  per  cent  general  mortgage  bonds  of  the  Atchison,  Topeka, 
and  Santa  Fe  Railroad  Co.,  and  $3,000  in  the  income  bonds  of 
the  same  corporation  ;  
$1,000  in  a  five  per  cent  collateral  trust 
bond  of  the  Chicago  Junction  Railways  and  Union  Stock 
Yard  Co.  ;  fifty  shares  in  the  Merchants'  National  Bank  of 
Boston  ;  fifty  shares  in  the  State  National  Bank  of  Boston  ; 
fifty  shares  in  the  National  Bank  of  Commerce  of  Boston  ; 
thirty-eight  shares  in  the  National  Union  Bank  of  Boston  ;  six- 
teen shares  in  the  Columbian  National  Bank  of  Boston  ; 
five  shares  in  the  Second  National  Bank  of  Boston  ;  twenty- 
five  shares  in  the  Boston  and  Albany  Railroad  Co.  ;  twenty -five 
shares  in  the  Old  Colony  Railroad  Co.  ;  
five  shares  in  the  Cin- 
cinnati Gas  Light  and  Coke  Co.  ;  
five  shares  in  the  Cincinnati 
Electric  Light  Co.  (of  a  par  value  of  $5  each)  ;  and  one  share 
in  the  Boston  Real  Estate  Trust  (of  the  par  value  of  $1,000). 
The  following  abstracts  and  the  trial  balance  show  the  pres- 
ent condition  of  the  several  accounts  :  — 
CASH  ACCOUNT. 
1891.  debits. 
March  31.     To  balance  on  hand                                                                           $185.27 
1892. 
March  31.     To  receipts  as  follows  : — 
General  Account                                                                10,909.87 
Investments                                                                           22,493.00 
Consolidated  Income                                                            2,630.38 
Income  of  Peabody  Fund                                                   1,672.49 
Income  of  Richard  Frothingham  Fund                19.60 
$37,910.61 
March  31.    To  balance  brought  down                                                            $625.00 
|g02  CREDITS. 
March  31.     By  payments  as  follows  : — 
Investments                                                                          $29,682.89 
Income  of  Peabody  Fund       820.40 
Income  of  Savage  Fund      392.93 
Income  of  William  Winthrop  Fund      105.55 
Income  of  Appleton  Fund        1,022.25 
Income  of  Massachusetts  Historical  Trust-Fund    .     .  81.58 
Income  of  General  Fund     1,359.00 
Consolidated  Income                                                                148.41 
General  Account                                                                   3,672.60 
By  balance  on  hand                                                                            625.00 
$37,910.61 
 - 422 - 
1892.]  REPORT   OF   THE   TREASURER.  379 
GENERAL  ACCOUNT. 
1891.  DEBITS- 
March  31.     To  balance  brought  forward        $1,458.28 
1892. 
March  Si.     To  sundry  payments  : — 
Salaries  of  Librarian's  Assistants          2,600.00 
Repairing  roof  and  walls           179.13 
Printing,  stationery,  and  postage          216.21 
Fuel  and  light                                                                                               189.79 
Care  of  fire,  etc                                                                                                315.74 
Miscellaneous  expenses  and  repairs      171.73 
Consolidated  Income                                                                822.89 
Building  Account                                                                  7,026.77 
$12,980.54 
March  31.     To  balance  brought  down                                                          $1,492.59 
-jqqo  CREDITS. 
March  31.    By  sundry  receipts  : — 
Rent  of  Building                                                                       $9,000.00 
Interest                                                                                                           30.97 
Income  of  Dowse  Fund       502.46 
Admission  Fees                                                                                 50.00 
Assessments                                                                            1,020.00 
Sales  of  publications                                                                        884.52 
By  balance  to  new  account          1,492.59 
$12,980.54 
Income  of  Apphton  Fund. 
1892*  DEBITS" 
March  31.    To  amount  paid  for  editing  Collections        $1,000.00 
„    forheliotype              22.25 
„  balance  carried  forward                                                               1,889.65 
$2,911.90 
lg91  CREDITS. 
March  31.    By  balance  brought  forward                                                          $2,298.75 
1892. 
March  31.      „  proportion  of  consolidated  income           613.15 
$2,911.90 
March  31.    By  balance  brought  down    .    $1,889.65 
Income  of  William  Winihrop  Fund. 
1892.  DEBITS' 
March  31.     To  amount  paid  for  binding                                                                $105.55 
„  balance  carried  forward            83.77 
$189.32 
 - 423 - 
380  MASSACHUSETTS  HISTORICAL  SOCIETY.  [April, 
1891.                                                  CKEDITS' 
March  31.    By  balance  brought  forward                                                              $38.58 
1892. 
March  31.     „    proportion  of  consolidated  income            150.74 
$189.32 
March  31.     By  balance  brought  down            $83.77 
Income  of  Massachusetts  Historical  Trust-Fund. 
1891.  DEBITS' 
March  31.    To  balance  brought  down                                                            $587.58 
1892. 
March  31.      „  amount  paid  for  printing        81.58 
$669.16 
March  31.    To  balance  brought  down                                                            $166.70 
CREDITS. 
1892. 
March  31.    By  proportion  of  consolidated  income      $502.46 
„    balance  carried  forward               166.70 
$669.16 
Income  of  Richard  Frothingham  Fund. 
jog-,  CREDITS. 
March  31.    By  balance  brought  forward      $1,257.01 
1892. 
March  31.     „    copyright  received                                                                                 19.60 
„    proportion  of  consolidated  income      150.74 
11,427.85 
March  31.    By  amount  brought  down                                                         $1,427.35 
Income  of  Dowse  Fund. 
1892. 
DEBITS. 
March  31.     To  amount  placed  to  credit  of  General  Account  ....     $502.46 
1892.                                                                CREDITS. 
March  31.    By  proportion  of  consolidated  income     $502.46 
Income  of  Peabody  Fund. 
1891.  debits. 
March  31.     To  balance  brought  forward                                                           $3,545.13 
1892. 
March  31.      „    amount  paid  for  printing  and  binding               798.40 
„  „        „      „    repairs  of  paintings       22.00 
$4,365.53 
March  31.     To  balance  brought  down                                                        $2,328.02 
 - 424 - 
1892.]                        REPORT   OF   THE   TREASURER.                       381 
jgg2  CREDITS. 
March  31.    By  interest  on  railroad  bonds                                                         $1,344.74 
„  interest  from  Savings  Bank             327.75 
„   proportion  of  consolidated  income           365.02 
„   balance  carried  forward                                                               2,328.02 
$4,365.53 
Income  of  General  Fund. 
1892.  DEBITS- 
March  31.     To  amount  paid  for  editing  Proceedings       f  
1,000.00 
v        »         »      »    printing                                                                    335.00 
„        „         „      *,    
heliotyping               24.00 
„   balance  carried  forward                                                                 693.16 
v  $2,052.16 
1891.  CREDITS' 
March  31.    By  amount  brought  forward                                                           $1,650.20 
1892. 
March  31.      „  proportion  of  consolidated  income        401.96 
$2,052.16 
March  31.    By  balance  brought  down                                                              $693.16 
Income  of  Savage  Fund. 
1891.  DEBIT8' 
March  31.    To  balance  brought  forward               $3.02 
1892. 
March  31.      „  amount  paid  for  books            468.55 
$471.57 
March  31.    To  balance  brought  down                                                           $170.10 
1892.  credits. 
March  31.     By  proportion  of  consolidated  income      $301.47 
„  balance  carried  forward          170.10 
$471.57 
TRIAL  BALANCE.  = 
DEBITS. 
Cash                                                                                                                           $625.00 
Real  Estate                                                                                                                    103,280.19 
Investments                                                                                                            70,831.21 
Income  of  Peabody  Fund                                                                               2,328.02 
Income  of  Massachusetts  Historical  Trust-Fund      166.70 
Income  of  Savage  Fund                                                                                   170.10 
General  Account                                                                                                  1,492.59 
$178,893.81 
 - 425 - 
382  MASSACHUSETTS  HISTORICAL  SOCIETY.  [April, 
CREDITS. 
Building  Account                                                                                            $93,479.96 
Appleton  Fund                                                                                                12,203.00 
Dowse  Fund                                                                                                   10,000.00 
Massachusetts  Historical  Trust-Fund      10,000.00 
Peabody  Fund                                                                                                22,123.00 
Savage  Fund                                                                                                    6,000.00 
Erastus  B.  Bigelow  Fund                                                                               1,861.28 
William  Winthrop  Fund          .  3,000.00 
Richard  Frothkigham  Fund                                                                           3,000.00 
General  Fund                                                                                                   8,000.00 
Anonymous  Fund                                                                                            1,611.10 
William  Amory  Fund                                                                                     3,000.00 
Income  of  Appleton  Fund                                                                               1,889.65 
Income  of  William  Winthrop  Fund                                                                    83.77 
Income  of  Richard  Frothingham  Fund       1,427.35 
Income  of  General  Fund                                                                                    693.16 
Income  of  William  Amory  Fund                                                                      521.54 
$178,893.81 
During  the  year  the  Society  has  published  one  volume  of 
Proceedings  ;  and  about  two  thirds  of  another  volume  of  Pro- 
ceedings are  now  in  print.  The  volume  will  not,  however,  be 
ready  for  distribution  before  the  autumn.  A  volume  of  Col- 
lections, comprising  the  Correspondence  of  Wait  Winthrop, 
will  be  published  in  a  few  weeks. 
Charles  C.  Smith,  Treasurer. 
Boston,  March  31,  1892. 
Report  of  the  Auditing  Committee. 
The  undersigned,  a  Committee  appointed  to  examine  the 
accounts  of  the  Treasurer  of  the  Massachusetts  Historical 
Society,  as  made  up  to  March  31,  1892,  have  attended  to  that 
duty,  and  report  that  they  find  them  correctly  kept  and  prop- 
erly vouched  ;  that  the  securities  held  by  the  Treasurer  for 
the  several  funds  correspond  with  the  statement  in  his  Annual 
Report  ;  that  the  balance  of  cash  on  hand  is  satisfactorily 
accounted  for ;  and  that  the  Trial  Balance  is  accurately  taken 
from  the  Ledger. 
Abbott  Lawrence, '  \)   n         ... 
Committee. 
Arthur  Lord,  ) 
Boston,  April  8,  1892. 
Mr.  Roger  Wolcott,  from  the  Nominating  Committee, 
presented  the  following  list  of  names  for  the  several  offices. 
 - 426 - 
1892.]  VOTE   OF  THANKS.  383 
All   of  the    gentlemen    named   were   elected  by   ballot,   by 
unanimous  votes  :  — 
President. 
GEORGE  EDWARD  ELLIS. 
Vice-Presidents. 
FRANCIS    PARKMAN. 
CHARLES  FRANCIS  ADAMS. 
Recording  Secretary. 
EDWrARD  JAMES  YOUNG. 
Corresponding  Secretary. 
JUSTIN  WINSOR. 
Treasurer. 
CHARLES  CARD  SMITH. 
Librarian. 
SAMUEL  ABBOTT  GREEN. 
Cabinet-keeper. 
FITCH  EDWARD  OLIVER. 
Members  at  Large  of  the  Council. 
EDWARD  JACKSON  LOWELL. 
EDWARD   GRIFFIN  PORTER. 
HENRY  FITCH  JENKS. 
HORACE  ELISHA   SCUDDER. 
SOLOMON  LINCOLN. 
Voted,  That  the  thanks  of  the  Society  be  presented  to 
Messrs.  Roger  Wolcott  and  Edward  Bangs,  retiring  members 
of  the  Council,  for  their  valuable  services  as  members  of  that 
body. 
A  new  serial  of  the  Proceedings,  covering  the  meetings  in 
December,  1891,  and  January  and  February,  1892,  was  ready 
for  distribution  at  this  meeting. 
After  the  adjournment  the  members  and  a  few  invited 
guests  lunched  with  the  President  at  his  residence,  110 
Marlborough  Street. 
 - 427 - 
384  MASSACHUSETTS  HISTORICAL   SOCIETY.  [May, 
MAY  MEETING,  1892. 
The  stated  meeting  was  held  on  Thursday,  the  12th  instant, 
at  three  o'clock,  p.  M.,  the  President,  Dr.  George  E.  Ellis,  in 
the  chair. 
After  the  reading  of  the  record  of  the  last  meeting  and  of 
the  list  of  donors  to  the  Library,  the  President  announced  the 
death,  on  the  5th  instant,  of  George  H.  Moore,  LL.D.,  of  New 
York,  who  was  elected  a  Corresponding  Member  in  June, 
1859,  and  had  often  attended  the  meetings  of  the  Society,  and 
exhibited  a  special  interest  in  the  history  of  Massachusetts. 
The  President  then  presented,  as  a  gift  to  the  Library  from 
Mr.  Edwin  Forbes  Waters,  a  copy  of  Nathaniel  Ames's  "  As- 
tronomical Diary,  or  Almanack  for  the  Year  of  our  Lord  Christ, 
1762,"  containing  on  the  blank  pages  a  diary  of  Rev.  Eli  Forbes, 
D.D.,  then  of  Brookfield,  Mass.1  The  diary  contains  an  account 
of  a  visit  to  the  Tuscarora  Indians  in  the  summer  of  that  year, 
and  is  as  follows  :  — 
Memorandum  for  ye  year  1762. 
January. 
1.  Meriam  Barnes  died  about  12  at  night;  taken  not  well. 
2.  Lent  my  slay  to  Roger  Willinton.    Wrote  a  sermon  for  N.  Year. 
3.  Preachd  a.m.  from  Ps.  77:10,  11,  12.  p.m.  not  well.  .No 
preaching. 
1  Eli  Forbes  was  the  youngest  son  of  Deacon  Jonathan  Forbes,  and  was  born 
in  Westborough,  Mass.,  Oct.  5,  1726.  While  preparing  to  enter  college,  at  the 
age  of  eighteen,  he  enlisted  as  a  volunteer,  and  served  for  a  short  time  in  the 
French  and  Indian  War.  In  July,  1747,  he  entered  Harvard  College,  from  which 
he  graduated  with  high  rank  in  1751.  In  June  of  the  following  year  he  was  or- 
dained minister  of  the  Second  Parish  in  Brookfield.  In  1758  and  1759  he  served 
as  a  chaplain  in  the  provincial  regiments  under  the  command  of  Colonel  Ruggles. 
In  the  summer  and  early  autumn  of  1762  he  made  the  missionary  journey  de- 
scribed in  
the  diary  now  printed.  On  the  breaking  out  of  hostilities  between  the 
Colonies  and  the  mother  country,  he  was  unjustly  charged  with  being  a  Tory ;  
and 
in  March,  1776,  he  was  dismissed  from  his  pulpit.  In  the  following  June  he  was 
installed  over  the  First  Parish  in  Gloucester,  where  he  died  Dec.  15,  1804.  In 
that  year  he  had  received  the  degree  of  Doctor  of  Divinity  from  Harvard  College. 
During  his  long  ministry  he  printed  several  occasional  sermons,  and  also  a  volume 
of  eleven  miscellaneous  discourses.  See  Sprague's  Annals  of  the  American  Pulpit, 
vol.  i.  pp.  493-495  ;  Babson's  History  of  Gloucester,  pp.  402-407. 
 - 428 - 
1892]  DIARY   OF   REV.    ELI    FORBES.  385 
4.  Visited  Ichabod  How  sic.  Mr.  Fisk  attended  funeral  of  Meriam 
Barnes.  Visited  me.  Began  to  recover  my  health.  Remain  unwell 
all  ye  week  ;  nothing  besides  remarkable. 
10.  Preached  at  home  a.  m.  7  &  8  Comd     p.  m.  from  Heb.  3.1. 
11.  Visited  by  Mrs.  Baldwin  and  mother,  by  Dr.  Rice,  &c. 
12.  Visited  by  Mrs.  Gilbert  and  Mrs.  Patty  Wheat. 
13.  Visited  by  Mrs.  Willard,  Parsons,  Scot.  Mrs.  Forbes  got  into 
tother  room.     I  visited  Ichabod  How  sic. 
14.  Visited  Mrs.  Ob'd  Rice.     Ant  Halloway  went  to  Hardwick. 
15.  Widow  Wight  went  home  after  having  stayed  17  days. 
16.  Sam1  Willard  went  home  with  my  horse. 
17.  Preached  at  home  am.  from  ye  ix  Comand*  and  p.m.  Heb. 
3:1.    Puld  two  teeth  for  Mrs.  Adams.    Visited  Mrs.  J.  Hinckley's  child. 
18.  Wrote  to  Mrs.  Winter,  Joseph  Bowman,  by  Bill  Perkins. 
19.  Sam1  Willard  returned.     Bro*  two  letters  with  him. 
20.  Read  chiefly.     Nothing  remarkable. 
21.  Visited  by  Captain  Dodge  and  Mrs.  Joshua  Dodge. 
22.  Wrote  and  visited  Jonas  Brewer's  child  sick. 
23.  Prepared  for  ye  Sabbath.     Wrote  an  exposition  on  ye  10  Com*. 
24.  Preached  at  Home  from  ye  10  Com*  a.  m.  ;  
from  Heb.  3:1  p.  m. 
25.  Visited  Mrs.  Rice  and  Jonas  Brewer,  —  child  better. 
27.  Setled  with  Deacn  Bigelow.  Rec?  ye  remainder  of  sallery 
for  1761. 
28.  Recd  12  bushels  of  wheat  of  Tom8  Cheney,  by  Obh  Bart*,  and 
gave  an  order  to  Amiel  Weeks  in  full  for  pork. 
29.  Wrote  a  sermon  on  Heb.  iii :  
1. 
30.  Wrrote  an  exposition  on  ye  first  paragraf  of  John. 
31.  Preached  from  1  John  v  :  
20,  old  sermon.     Deliv'd  ye  Expos11. 
February. 
1.  Did  not  visit  as  usual:  stormy  ;  read  chiefly. 
2.  Agreed  with  Abner  How  to  take  ye  remainder  of  Mr.  Champney's 
farm  after  he  had  taken  30  acres. 
3.  Visited  at  Mr.  Gilbert,  Capn  Baldwin's  with  Mrs.  Forbes.  Paid 
Mrs.  Stevens  in  full  /8. 
4.  Visited  (in  ye  sley  with  Mrs.  Forbes,  Capn  Baldwin,  mother  and 
wife,)  Mri  Amos  Hamilton,  Mri  Fish,  Cap?  Bucminster,  Mri  Parsons. 
5.  Thaddy  McCarty  returned  to  be  boarded  and  instructed. 
6.  Prepared  for  the  Sabbath.     Wrote  an  exposition  on  John  1 :  
7. 
7.  Preached  at  home  from  John  1  :7-14  a.m.  and  p.m.  old  ser- 
mon. Visited  John  Woolcot  at  evening.  Baptized  Sam.  Hodgeman's 
chd. 
8.  Visited  John  Woolcot,  Obedr  Rice  and  Sarah  Adams,  sick. 
Heard  of  ye  death  of  Brother  Bowman. 
49 
 - 429 - 
386  MASSACHUSETTS   HISTORICAL   SOCIETY.  [May, 
9.    Was  visited  by  Cap-  Witt  and  wife  and  several  of  ye  other  Neighrs. 
10     Visited  Sister  Baldwin  with  my  wife,  Molly  and  Eli. 
11.  Visited  by  Dea°  Worster,  Cap"  Sadler,  Jos.  Chad  wick. 
12.  P*  John  Willington  for  shoes  by  ye  hand  of  Ben.  Wallton  8/10. 
13.  Prepared  for  the  Sabbath  ;  received  a  shote  of  Bro.  Parkn. 
14.  Preached  from  Heb.  3:1.     p.  m.  Expound  John  15-28. 
15.  Went  to  New  Bran  tree.  Dined  with  Mf  Rug3.  Weatherby 
came  and  took  away  his  cow. 
16.  Went  to  Daniel  Gilberts  and  Aron  Barnes  to  get  one  of  them  to 
keep  my  heifer.     Ensign  Barnes  visited. 
17.  Wrote  to  father  Parkman  and  Doct.  Willard.  Leut.  Hinds 
finished  getting  my  wood. 
18.  Wrote  to  Rev^  Maccarty.  Recd  of  Benj.  Adams  interest.  Bor- 
rowed of  
CapD-  Baldwin  eight  dollars. 
19.  Molly  went  to  Westborough  with  Sister  Parkman.  Sent  by 
them  three  pistereens. 
20.  Prepared  for  ye  Sabbath.     Nothing  new. 
21.  Preached  an  old  ser.  Hosea  13  :  
9.     Expounded  John  i :  29-42. 
22.  Visited  Capn  Woolcot.     Sent  my  heifer  to  Aaron  Barnes. 
23.  Made  some  assays  in  prosodie  ;  constructed  some  rules. 
24.  Visited  Lieut.  BothwelFs  wife  ;  agreed  to  preach  there  ye  2- 
Tuesday  in  March,  at  2  o'clock  p.  m. 
25.  Very  cold.  Did  little  besides  reading  some  of  Dr.  Young's  3^ 
vol.     Puld  a  tooth  for  Andw  Kimble  ;  received  for  two. 
26.  Wrote  a  sermon  on  Heb.  3  :  
1-28.  Finished  expounding  1  chap, 
of  John. 
27.  Joseph  Bowman  and  Daniel  Forbes,  with  his  wife  and  child,  came 
from  Westborough  on  a  visit. 
28.  Preached  from  Heb.  3:1.  Expounded  from  John  1  :  
43  ad 
fin  em. 
March. 
1.  Borrowed  six  dollars  of  Joseph  Boman.  Atended  ye  funeral  of 
Benj.  Kimbal's  child,  aged  5  months.  Kild  a  calf;  Aaron  Barnes 
assisted.     Sister  Parkman,  Susanna  Alexr  came  from  Westboro. 
2.  A  very  stormy  day  of  snow  ;  nothing  new  besides. 
3.  Preached  a  sacramental  Lecture  from  John  13  :  
13. 
4.  Visited  Cap1^  Woolcot,  —  John  Woolcot.  Discoursed  with  his 
wife  relating  to  her  joining  with  yf  ch.     Was  satisfied. 
5.  Joseph  Bowman  returned  from  Hardwick.  Wrote  to  Mr.  Macarty 
by  Daniel  Forbes  and  wife. 
6.  Prepared  for  ye  Sabbath.  Wrote  an  exposition  on  John  ii: 
1-12. 
7.  The  sacrament  put  by  bec'se  of  extreem  weather.  Preached  an 
old  sermon  from  Ps.  139  :  
1.     Ye  exposit"  not  preached. 
 - 430 - 
1S92.]  DIARY   OF   REV.    ELI   FORBES.  387 
8.  Sent  to  mill.     Had  1  bushel  \  of  wheat  ground.     Did  not  visit. 
9.  Preached  a  Lecture  at  Lieut.  Both  well's  on  act  of  offense. 
11.  Had  a  number  of  the  Chh.  together  in  order  to  heal  an  unhappy 
difficulty  between  y™  and  others  of  ye  Chh. 
12.  Went  to  Mr.  Champney's  :  got  him  some  wood. 
13.  Wrote  an  Exp1!  on  John  ii :  
12  ad  finem. 
14.  Delivered  ye  exposition,  a.m.  a  sermon  on  religious  zeal. 
15.  Parish  meeting.     Did  not  visit  as  usual. 
16.  Visited  Ephraim  Converse.  Went  to  Mr.  Fisks.  Lodged  at 
Esq.  Forsters.     Pd  Deacon  Rich. 
17.  Attended  minister's  meeting  at  Mr.  Fisk's.  Prayed  in  public. 
Mr.  Ruggles  preached.  Returned.  Our  next  meeting  is  at  Mr.  Jones, 
3d  Wednesday  in  next  June,  when  Mr.  White  is  to  make  a  concio,  and 
if  he  fails  yn-  
Mr.  Jones.  Ye  question  is  what  is  ye  most  likely  method 
to  promote  early  piety.     Sent  my  horse  to  Deacon  Biglow. 
18.  Daniel  and  Sister  Forbes  came  from  Westborough,  with  salt. 
19.  Thaddy  Macarty  and  Sam!  Willard  went  home,  a  visit. 
20.  Wrote  a  sermon  on  Exodus  32  :  
26.  Setled  several  difficulties 
between  contending  Brethren. 
21.  Preached  on  Heb.  iii  :  
1,  a.  m.  and  p.  m.  finished  y*  text.  Cele- 
brated ye  
ordinance  of  the  Supper,  and  baptized  Joseph  Chadwick's  son, 
called  Bowman. 
22.  Journeyed  towards  Boston  ;  
dined  at  Mr.  Maccartys.  Received 
of  Dr.  Willard  for  instructing  his  son  19/4.  Lodged  at  father  Park- 
mans.     Expenses  on  ye  way  /10. 
23.  Journey  still.  Dined  at  Bryants.  Expense  pistareene.  Lodged 
at  uncle  Samuel  Parkman's. 
24.  Paid  Edes  &  Gill  5/  for  pamphlets  ;  for  shaving  4  copers. 
25.  Setld  account  with  Deacon  Grant.  Mr-  Winter  had  against 
me  £5/14/4.  Pd  M—  Kneeland  for  tea  and  sugar,  bible  and  watch 
12:0:3  old  Ten1:  Came  out  of  Boston.  Pd  one  coper  for  my  ferry 
and  3  pistareenes  for  my  horse.  Lodged  at  Esq.  Livemore's  in 
Waltham. 
26.  Journey d  homeward.  Pi  4/  for  oats.  Lodged  at  my  father 
Forbes.     Pd  him  six  shillings  interest. 
27.  Journeyd  home.  Pd  /8  for  Bowman's  stockens  ;  4/  for  oats  and 
one  coper  for  bates.      Got  home  before  night. 
28.  Preached  in  the  A.  m.  from  Ex.  32  :  
26.     p.  m.  Romans  11  :  
26. 
29.  Did  not  visit  as  usual.     Adjusted  some  accounts. 
30.  Visited  Esq.  Converse,  Mr  Rice.  Pulld  a  tooth  for  Betty 
Biglow.     Dea.  Biglow  took  my  horse  to  keep. 
31.  Got  two  hundred  of  hay  of  Daniel  Gilbert.  Moses  Barnes  son 
bro*  it  to  my  barn.  I  went  with  Esq.  Forster  to  Icabod  How's  to  settle 
affairs  between  him  and  Leut.  How. 
 - 431 - 
388  MASSACHUSETTS   HISTORICAL   SOCIETY.  [May, 
April. 
1.  Went  to  visit  W-  Dorety,    Esq.  Converse  and  Moses  Ayer.     Re- 
ceived six  
dollars  of  Thomas  Slayton  which  I  pd  for  him  in  Boston. 
2.  Prepared  for  yf  Sabbath.     Read  Styles  Christian  Union. 
3.  Wrote  part  of  a  sermon.     Read  Doddridge's  Token  Sermons. 
4.  Preached  from  Ex.  32  :  
26  a.  m.,  p.  m. 
5.  Visited  M'  Rice,  Esq.  Converse.     Mr  Avers  sick. 
6.  Read  and  begun  my  lecture  sermon  to  young  op. 
7.  Finished  my  lecture  sermon  to  young  .pp.     Read  some. 
8.  Preached  to  young  pp.  from  Mat.  vi :  
33.  Church  voted  to  sing 
in  public  Dy  Brady  aud  M-  Tate's  with  M'  Watt's  Songs  and  Hymns. 
9.    Wrote  a  sermon  for  the  Sabbath. 
10.  Wrote  another. 
11.  Preached  a.  m.,  p.  m.  from  Ex.  32  :  
26. 
12.  Carried  my  chair  to  Nat.  Bartlett's.     Visited  Cap"  Witt. 
13.  Began  in  my  garden.     Sowed  various  kinds  of  cabbage. 
14.  Went  to  M-  Champney's,  Bartletts,  Brother's,  Baldwin's. 
15.  Began  my  Fast  sermon.     Was  much  interrupted. 
16.  Wrote  still  for  the  Fast.     Heard  from  Boston.     Mission. 
17.  Prepared  for  ye.  
Sabbath.     Finished  upon  Exodus  33  :  
26. 
18.  Preached  at  home  on  y?  text  abovesd.  Heard  from  West- 
borough. 
19.  Journeyd  to  Westborough.     Spent  on  y?  way  eight  pence. 
20.  Visited  Revd  Parkman's.     M-  Sarah  and  Sophia  sick. 
21.  Visited  my  friends.     Lodged  at  brother  Daniels. 
22.  Returned  from  Westborough  to  Worcester. 
23.  Preached  yf  Fast  at  Worcester  from  Prov.  14  :  
24. 
24.  Returned  to  Brookfield.     Spent  p.  M.  in  ye  garden. 
25.  Prepared  for  y?  Sabbath  what  I  had  proposd  for  y-  Fast. 
26.  Visited  Cap?  Witt,  Leut.  How,  Baldwin,  Gilbert,  &c. 
27.  Spent  chiefly  in  y-  garden.      Went  to  Mr.  Champney's. 
28.  Went  to  Esq.  Ayers  and  yn  wh  Mr.  Champney  to  Mr.  Bartlet. 
They  agreed  to  leave  all  yr  affairs  to  Cap?  Witt,  Esq.  Ayers  and  Deacon 
Biglow,  to  be  determined  to-morrow. 
29.  Ye  abovesd  gentlemen  attended  and  settled  ye  affair.  Went  to 
Hardwick  and  preached  a  lecture  from  John  6 :  
35.  Reck'ed  with 
Deac?  Woods.     Due  to  him  for  mett,  7.  8.  0  old  ten. 
30.  Made  some  preparation  for  the  Sabbath.  Gave  Mrs.  Slayton  an 
order  upon  ye  Treasr  for  3  pounds  6/8    
May. 
1.  Prepared  for  ye  Sabbath.     Sowed  some  garden  seeds. 
2.  Preached  all  day  from  Jer.  2  :  
19.  Baptized  John  Woolcot's 
child. 
 - 432 - 
1892.]  DIARY   OF   REV.   ELI   FORBES.  389 
3.  Did  not  visit  as  usual,  —  no  body  being  prayed  for  on  ye  Sab. 
4.  Spent  some  time  in  my  garden,  in  discoursing  with  my  pp. 
5.  Plauted  my  potatoes.  Received  of  Thos  Hardy  £6  :  
13  :  
4,  which 
is  to  be  discounted  on  yf  bond  I  have  agst  him,  if  it  is  not  necessary 
to  be  paid  to  Brother  Parkman,  as  part  of  yf  four  hundred  wch  Hardy 
is  to  pay  him  for  his  place,  according  to  bargain. 
6.  Had  a  lecture.  Revd  Ruggles  preached.  I  read  a  letter  from 
yf  President  of  yf  Committee  for  Propagating  ye  Gos.  among  yf  West- 
ern Tribes  of  Indians,  and  left  it  till  next  Tuesday  night  for  them  to 
object  agst  my  complying  with  ye  Request. 
7.  Visited  Esq.  Converse  and  Witt,  Taylor. 
8.  Prepared  for  the  Sabbath. 
9.  Preached  from  John  1 :  
29  ;    p.  m.  from  Prov.  30  :  
12. 
10.  Paid  Mr  Walker  for  yf  Gilbert  estate  £6:12:0;  and  there  re- 
mains due  to  him,  as  per  note,  415  : 5 :  
2,  which  is  to  be  paid  yf  first 
week  in  June. 
11.  Met  yf  pp.  to  obtain  of  ym  leave  to  go  a  few  months  among  the 
Western  Tribes  of  Indians.  Did  not  obtain.  Messrs  Cummings  and 
Hestlop  called. 
12.  Visited  Dea?  Biglow  and  Capn  Witt.     Obtained  leave  of  y^. 
13.  M-  Forbes  and  M-  Bowman  set  out  for  Boston. 
14.  Prepared  for  ye  Sabbath.  Write  one  sermon  from  Luke 
2 :  32. 
15.  Made  another  sermon  from  ye  same  text. 
1 6.  Preached  from  ye  above  text.     Baptized  Thos  Hardy's  child. 
17.  Journey4  towards  Boston.     Lodged  at  Worcester. 
18.  Set  forward.     Lodged  at  Westborough.     Visited  my  friends 
19.  Continued.     Reached  Boston.     Lodged  at  Mr  Parkmans. 
20.  Attended  ye  Public  Lecture  and  waited  upon  yf  Comrs.« 
21.  Recd  money  of  Dr  Chauncy.      Prepared  for  to  journey. 
22.  Dined  with  Mr.  Adams,  concluded  to  tarry  ye  Sabbath. 
23.  Preached  a.  m.  for  Mr  Cooper,  and  p.  m.  for  M'  Eliot. 
24.  Journeyd  homeward.     Parted  with  M-  Forbes  at  Brookline. 
25.  Arrived  safe  at  my  own  house.     Found  all  well. 
26.  Made  some  preparation  for  my  journey  to  ye  Indians. 
28.  Married  Joshua  Draper  and  ye  Widow  Sarah  Wright. 
29.  Reckned  and  ballencd  all  accounts  with  Cap?  Baldwin.  Pre- 
pared for  
ye  Sabbath.  Settled  accounts  with  Deacon  Biglow,  Benj. 
Adams,  Joseph  Bartlett,  J°-  Chadwick,  John  Willington,  John  Pearson, 
Brother  Parkman. 
30.  My  Barnes  preached  a.  m.  I  preached  p.  m.  Obtained  a  vote 
of  y-  pp.  for  my  going  a  Journey  to  Oneguagua. 
31.  Bought  a  horse  of  Adoniram  Bartlett  for  Patty.  Pd  4:6:8; 
to  Pearson  3/9;  to  Ephraim  Walker  4:16:0.      Gave  an  order  upon 
 - 433 - 
390  MASSACHUSETTS   HISTORICAL   SOCIETY.  [May. 
Brother  Parkman  to  Joseph  Gilbert  for  two  pounds,  being  part  of  my 
account  with  him. 
June. 
1.  Set  out  my  journey.  Oated  at  Shaw's  pd  0/8.  Dined  at  Scots 
pd  2/4 ;  for  tea  and  oats  at  Lambs  and  persons  1/2.  Lodged  at  Mr 
Brecks. 
2.  Dined  at  Mr  Mosly's  2/7     Lodged  at  Mr-S  Clarks,   6/5. 
3.  Went  forward;  dined  at  Jackson's,  3/3;  lodged  at  Revd  Hopkins. 
4.  Tarried  at  Mr  Hopkins  for  Mf  Gun  who  came  at  evening.  Lodged 
at  Mr  Hopkins  again.     Patty  went  to  Mr  Deans. 
5.  Went  with  Mr  Hopkins  to  Stockbridge  :  returned. 
6.  Preached  for  Mr  Hopkins  from  Luke  2  :  
32. 
7.  Journeyd  from  Sheffield  to  Albany.  Sent  [spent  ?]  
on  yf  way  a 
pistareene  for  my  dinr,  and  to  Betty  Hopkins  a  pistareene.  And  at 
Venburrans  6/6 ;  at  Fitches  2/0.  Gave  to  James  Dean  for  saying  y- 
Lord's  prayer  in  Indian  1/6. 
8.  Went  over  to  yf  city.  Wrote  home  to  Dr  Chauncy  and  Mrs 
Forbes.  Waited  [on]  Gen1  Johnson,  Mr  Sanders.  Engaged  him 
to  make  all  provision  for  our  Journey.  Expended  for  ferrage  for 
myself,  Mr  Rice  and  ye  lad  1/8,  and  for  a  handkerchief  I  bought  for 
James  Dean  3/6. 
9.  Spent  ye  day  in  reading.     Mr  Gun  sick. 
P*  for  Mr  Gun,  himself  and  horse    York. 
£1:11:6 
.Delivered  to  him  at  Mr  Sanders  6.  D.  2:8.0 
and  paid  for  him  at  Mr.  Sanders  14  :  
11  :  
1\ 
Pd  also  at  Green  Bush  our  own  exp?  2  :    6:6 
for  Dean  lodgings,  horse,  &c.  0  :    5:0 
for  our  own  horses  0:16:0 
P^  to  Mr  Sanders  24  dollars  9  :  
09  : 0 
P-d  nine  Dollars  to  Dr  Rice  3:12:0 
Sealing  wax,  wafers  and  quills  3/9  0  :    3:9 
Expenses  to  Schanectada  0  :    3:0 
Paid  to  yf  waggoner  for  bringing  baggage  0:16:0 
For  Corderii  and  3  Primers  5/6  0:5:6 
Expenses  for  ye  lads  to  Albany                                                ,      
2:18:9 
Pd  for  ferrage  3/—  0:3:0 
Reached  Schanectada;    put   up  at   Cap-   Ogdens.      Went  8 
miles   above    Schenectada.      Pd    at   and    on    yf  way  2/  for 
Block  Bell  for  Dr  Rice  :  
for  our  lodgings  and  breakfast  0:19:6 
For  Mr  Gun  and  wife  at  ye  same  0  :    3:2 
for  an  English  cheese  1:11:6 
for  an  empty  trunk  and  case  0  :  
18  : 6 
and  for  a  dinr  and  horses  0  :    7:6 
and  for  James  Dean's  dinr  0  :    1:0 
 - 434 - 
1892.]  DIARY    OF   REV.    ELI   FORBES.  691 
11.  Pas'd  from  Schenectada.     Lodged  at  Uriah  Wrights. 
12.  Delivered  to  Elisha  Guu  3  dollars,  and  left  him  to  pay  y?  reck- 
oning, wh  
was  nineteen  shillings.  We  came  on  to  Cherry  Valley.  In 
our  way  expended  only  3, 
■'.     Lodged  at  Cap"  Wells  ;  received  hospitably. 
13.  Preached  at  Cherry  valley  p.m.;  Dr  Rice  a.  m. 
14.  Dined  at  M?  Martins  ;  returned  and  Lodged  at  Cap"  Wells. 
15.  P-1  for  gun  to  Cap"  Fry  34/.  To  Jerumners  [Jeremiah's?]  16/, 
to  Camble  for  flour  and  casks  £4 : 3   : 6 
17.  P-  to  John  Camble  for  carriage  to  ye  Lake  20/.  Gun  and  his 
wife  set  sale  down  ye  Lake  with  ye  baggage. 
18.  P*  to  Cap"  Wells  30/  for  bread,  butter,  &  left  with  him  331 
more.  Dr.  Rice,  myself  and  James  Dean  set  out  by  land.  Reached 
Schenavirs,  lodged  there. 
19.  Set  forward  ;  reached  Otsego  where  ye  boat  joined  us. 
20.  Reached  Unedello  [Unadilla?];   bought  milk  /6. 
21.  Reached  Onoquage  with  all  our  baggage. 
22.  Had  a  general  Council  of  ye  Nations.     Was  received  well. 
23.  Wil-  Forgerson,  who  came  with  ye  boat,  returned.  Paid  him 
for  his  service  24/,  of  which  Dr.  Rice  pd-  
8,'.     Wrote  home. 
24.  Built  au  oven  and  prepared  a  house  to  live  in. 
25.  Wrote  a  sermon  from  Acts  xvii:  24,  25,  26. 
26.  Wrote  another  sermon  upon  ye  Knowledge  of  God. 
27.  Preached  a.  m.  from  Acts  xvii  :  24,  &c.  Baptized  one  of  ye 
Indian  children.     Mr.  Rice  preached  p.m.  John  17  :  2. 
28.  Visited  most  of  ye  families  of  ye  town  ;  found  y"1  serious. 
29.  Wrote  to  ye  Commissioners,  Mr.  Bowman  ;  
Mrs.  Forbes.  Dis- 
coursed with  Peter  about  planting  a  Ch.  here. 
30.  Began  to  instruct  ye  children  ye  English  letters.  Finishd  a 
sermon.     Wrote  to  brother  Parkman. 
July. 
1.  Attended  ye  school  a.  m.     p.  m.  wrote  to  ye  Menicinks. 
2.  Wrote  a  sermon  1  Chro.  28  :  
9.     Attended  the  school. 
3.  Pomp's  wife  washd  one  shirt  for  me.  Visited  some.  Discoursed 
with  several  on  spiritual  things  and  with  Peter  and  Isaac  about  bap- 
tizing a  
child  y-  was  offerd.  Also  about  gathering  a  Ch.  and  carrying 
on  Div.  Service. 
4.  Isaac  prayed  and  I  preached  from  1  Chron.  28  : 9   A.  m.  and  p.  m. 
Isaac  prayed  and  delivered  an  exhortation,  and  I  prayed  and  baptized  a 
daughter  named  Sally. 
5.  Wrote  some  :  attended  ye  school  and  read  in  Doddredge. 
6.  Went  to  ye  great  Hands  with  Mf  Johnston,  &c. 
7.  Returned  with  one  leg  of  venison  and  Indian  spoon.  Borrowed 
of  Mf  Johnson  one  shilling,  York.  Gave  two  copers  for  blue  berries. 
Concluded  to  board  by  o'rslvs. 
 - 435 - 
392  MASSACHUSETTS   HISTORICAL   SOCIETY.  [May, 
8.  Wrote  to  Mr  Bowman.     Read  some. 
9.  Went  to  ye  lower  Tuscarora.  Wrote  a  letter  to  ye  Governor  of 
Philadelphia  for  Angus  yr  chief. 
10.  Began  to  dig  a  cellar:  got  the  materials  for  to  covr.  Finished 
ye  cellar.     Bought  sundries  of  Mr  Ashby. 
11.  Dr.  Rice  preached  on  ye  Depravity  of  ye  Human  Nature. 
12.  Wrote  to  ye  Commissioners  and  sent  by  Thos  Stevens.  Bought 
a  pipe  of  a  Tuscarora  Chief.  Gave  2/  York.  Sold  to  Pomp,  a 
negro,  some  ozenbrigs  [Osnaburgs]. 
13.  Wrote  to  Mr.  Brainard  by  Mr.  Johnston. 
14.  Wrote  a  sermon  from  Hosea  13  :  
9.  P^  Mr.  Johnston  in  full  for 
one  snuff  box  8/  For  Nat  Davis  shoes  4/.  Dr.  Rice  p^  for  snuff  box  7/6, 
Yk  mon.  1/  borrowed.  Tot.  1 :  
0.  6.  Paid  also  to  Johnston  for  a  Tobacco 
Pouch  12/     Setled  with  Dr.  Rice  and  took  a  receipt  of  him. 
15.  A  Johnson  and  the  other  Traders  left  this  place. 
16.  Reckond  and  setled  with  Elisha  Gun.  Due  30  : 5   : 2 .     0,  for 
wc  he  gave  me  an  order  upon  Mr  Hyslop.  Reckond  and  settled 
with  T>r.  Rice.  Found  due  31  : 5   : 1   :  
3?  for  wc  he  gave  me  a  re- 
ceipt. Also  an  account  omitted  for  which  he  gave  no  receipt,  but 
remains  due  1  : 0   : 8   :  
3. 
17.  Adam,  being  returned,  had  a  general  meeting  of  ye  principal  men 
of  yf  Town,  when  we  told  them  again  our  arrant.  Was  received  cor- 
dially by  
Adam  yr.  
chief. 
18.  Preached  myself  in  the  forenoon  upon  Baptism  from  Mat. 
,19  :  
14.  Baptized  a  child  for  a  Tuscarora  woman  who  made  a  public 
profession  of  Christianity  and  was  baptized  herself  by  Mf  Spencer. 
Y?  child's  name  Christine.  Dr  Rice  preached  ye  afternoon  on  Be- 
lieving. &c. 
19.  Had  a  general  Council.  Discoursed  to  them  on  ye  sin  of  Drunk- 
enness, and  proposed  to  them  the  scheme  of  a  boarding  school,  which 
was  well  received. 
20.  Wrote  home  to  my  people,  to  Rev^  Hopkins  and  Brother 
Parkman,  and  sent  them  by  an  Indian  to  Stock  [Stockbridge  ?  
]. 
21.  Finishd  a  sermon  upon  Mat.  8  :  
7.  Read  some.  Made 
candles. 
22.  Wrote  part  of  a  sermon  on  Ps.  119  :  
115.  Attended  ye  school 
and  read  some.     Had  nothing  remarkable. 
23.  Finished  the  sermon  above  and  wrote  some  Miscelanies. 
24.  Read  some  and  prepared  for  the  Sabbath. 
25.  Preached  a.  m.  from  Hosea  13:6;  p.  m.  from  John  6  :  
37.  Bap- 
tized a  
woman,  —  Susanna,  —  from  toward  the  Onydas,  who  appeard  to 
be  a  serious  and  religious  person  ;  wanted  only  to  be  informd  further 
into  ye  particular  Scheme  of  Christianity.  Also  Joseph,  the  son  of  a 
very  godly  parent,  an  Qnyda  chief,  who  came  sixty  miles  to  have 
v?  ordinance  for  y?  child. 
 - 436 - 
1892]  DIARY   OF   REV.   ELI  FORBES.  393 
26.  Wrote  a  letter  to  Mr  Occum,  a  missionary  to  ye  Onydas  castle. 
Discoursed  with  the  Tuscarora  chief.  Found  him  to  be  well  established 
in  the  Christian  Protestant  Religion,  and  a  very  zealous  Reformer 
among  y?  Indians  of  his  own  Tribe.  Dr  Rice  pd  8/6  for  milk,  butter, 
tallow. 
27.  Went  with  Mr  Johnson,  Tuscarora  Interpreter,  to  ye  lower 
Tuscarora  Town,  and  baptized  Quarlant,  a  son  to  a  Meriland  Indian 
and  Tuscarora  squaw.  Found  ye  Indian  ignorant  but  well  dispose!, 
and  his  squaw  much  affected  with  ye  things  of  Religion.  Returnd, 
found  two  Indians  drunk,  tho  lately  had  humbld  been  admonishd. 
28.  Baptized  a  strangers  child,  who  came  about  sixty  miles.  The 
man  appeared  ignorant  and  quite  indifferent,  the  woman  serious,  and 
pretty  well  acquainted  with  Christianity.  Wrote  yf  Lords  prayer  in 
Indian  ;  read  some. 
29.  Bought  a  large  bowl  of  ye  Indian  whose  child  I  baptized  ;  gave 
one  dollar.  The  child's  name  was  Isaac.  Attend  the  school.  Wrote 
a  sermon  from  Acts  10 :  
12.  Received  a  cagg  of  butter  from  Cherry 
Valley. 
30.  Finished  ye  sermon  from  Acts  x:12.  Transcribd  the  Lords 
prayer  in  Indian.     Read  some  in  Doddridge. 
31.  Wrote  a  sermon  for  to-morrow  from  Mark  x  :  
21  and  finishd 
the  2nd  vol  of  Doddridge's  Tracts,  &c. 
August. 
1.  Preach  ye  sermon,  above,  Mark  x  :  
21  ;  
had  but  a  small  assembly 
and  no  meeting  in  ye  afternoon. 
2  Wrote  a  sermon  on  regeneration  from  John  3  :  
7,  and  visited 
Abram  and  his  family. 
3.  Was  taken  ill  in  y-  night,  an  extreme  pain  in  my  ear  ;  took  a 
sweat  ;  thro  Divine  goodness  some  better. 
4.  An  absiss  forming  in  my  left  ear  gave  me  great  pain. 
5.  The  pain  still  continued,  or  rather  increased,  so  y- 1  did  little  else 
besides  read  a  few  pages,  write  a  little  Indian,  and  rough  draft  of  a  letter 
to  Governor  Bernard. 
6.  The  absis  formed  in  my  ear  broke. and  gave  me  some  ease,  but 
not  able  to  do  much  besides  writing  a  page  or  two  from  John  6  :  
29. 
7.  Finishd  my  sermon  on  John  6 :  
29 ;  read  some  ;  attended  the 
school. 
8.  Dr  Rice  preached  from  John  1  :  
17,  a.  m.  and  p.  m.  I  discoursed 
with  y™  on  yf  institution  of  the  Sabbath  and  y-  manr  of  keeping  it, 
at  a  very  attentive  assembly.  Dind  with  Abram  politely,  who  with 
his  family  behaved  with  great  seriousness. 
9.  The  absis  formed  in  my  head  discharged  itself  at  my  ear,  and  I 
soon   was  very  easy  and  able   to   attend   to  any  statd  business  enga. 
50 
 - 437 - 
394  MASSACHUSETTS   HISTORICAL   SOCIETY.  [May, 
Wrote  part  of  a  sermon,  from  John  13:7.  Attended  the  school  and 
read  out  of  ye  Historical  memoirs  of  Mr.  Sergeant. 
10.  Finishd  my  sermon  from  John  13,  7,  and  began  another  from 
Ephe.  11  :  
8.     Attended  ye  school  &c.,  nothing  new. 
11,  12.  Finishd  my  sermon  from  Ephe.  11  :  
8.  Was  visited  by  the 
Onydas  chief.  Endeavord  to  remove  some  suspicion  which  he  had  upon 
his  mind  with  respect  to  the  English  repareing  yr  Forts  at  and  beyond 
ye  Lake.  Lead  him  in  ye  greater  concerns  of  Religion.  Exhortd  him 
to  keep  with  God  and  be  established  in  ye  Xian  Religion. 
13.  Wrote  a  letter  to  Mr.  Occum,  the  Onyda  chief. 
14.  Transcribed,  in  part,  a  sermon  from  2  Kings  4.26.  Waitd 
upon  ye  Onyda  and  Tuscarora  chiefs,  who  desired  me  to  preach  against 
Drunkenness.  I  consentd.  They  desird  that  I  would  apply  to  ye 
Commissioners  at  Boston  y-  some  measures  might  be  taken  by  y™  that 
importing  of  rum  might  be  entirely  stopd. 
15.  Preached  against  Drunkenness  from  119  Psalm  158.  p.m. 
Mr  Rice  preached  2  Tim.  2:19.  The*  chief  tarryed  and  thankd  me 
for  my  sermon.  Sd  Drunkenness  was  a  great  logg  across  y-  path 
which  y-  traveller  cant  climb  nor  go  round,  and  which  must  be  cut  away 
or  else  Religion  cant  get  along  and  y?  Drunkards  fell  y?  logge. 
16.  Had  a  meeting  of  the  chiefs  who  agreed  to  y-  schem  of  a  board- 
ing school,  and  desird  some  more  effectual  method  might  be  taken  to 
prevent  y-  bringing  in  rum  to  be  sold  here,  and  y-  what  rum  was 
brot  in  shd  be  at  ye  Direction  of  y-  Council. 
,  17.  Agreed  to  meet  y-  Sachems  at  D1-  Williams,  on  y?  6  of  Septf 
Wrote  a  letter  to  Governor  Bernard  at  ye  desire  of  ye  Onyda  and  Tus- 
carora chiefs  to  settle  ye  affairs  of  ye  school. 
18.  The  Onyda  and  Tuscarora  chiefs  returnd.  Transcribed  ye  letter 
to  Governor  Bernard.     Sold  Dr.  Rice,  Dodde  and  Hervey. 
19.  Adam  dined  with  us. 
20.  Transcribed  part  of  a  sermon.  Conferred  with  Isaac  about 
gathering  a  chh. 
21.  Finish  transcribing  my  sermon  2  Kings  iv:26.  Discoursed 
with  Cap-  Jacobs  wife  about  joining  to  the  chh.  Gave  to  Isaac  a  pair 
of  stockens. 
22.  Preachd  from  3  of  John  7,  
a.  m.     Dr.  Rice  p.  m.  2  Tim.  2  :  
19. 
23.  Abridged  a  sermon  of  Dr.  Doddredge's  upon  ye  Doom  of  Caper- 
naum. 
24.  Wrote  a  chh  covenant  for  ye  covenanting  members  to  sign  at 
Onohaquague.     Had  further  discourse  with  Isaac. 
25.  Discoursed  with  Adam,  ye  Onondaga's  wife,  Cap?  Jacob,  on 
Religion  ;  with  Peter  upon  y-  affairs  of  y-  school  and  y-  principles  of 
y-  Christian  Religion.     Ye  Onondaga  drunk. 
26.  Began  to  write  a  farewell  sermon  from  Heb.  2  : 1.     Attended 
 - 438 - 
1892.]  DIARY   OF  REV.   ELI  FORBES.  395 
y-  school.     "Went  with  Peter  to  see  a  place  for  to  erect  mills  upon. 
Gave  Peter  a  pair  of  thread  stockens. 
27.  Finishd  my  sermon  from  Heb.  2:1.  Discoursed  with  Peter's 
wife  upon  Religion.  Cap?  Jacob,  son  to  Adam,  under  concern  of  mind, 
came  to  see  me  ;  appeard  really  sorry  for  sin,  especially  for  the  sin  of 
drunkenness. 
28.  The  people  met.  Had  an  exercise  of  yr  own.  Eleven  ap- 
peard desirous  of  being  gatherd  into  a  chh,  nine  of  whom  had  been  of 
y?  chh  at  Schoharry  -,  and  they,  accordingly,  were  formd  into  a  chh, 
solemnly  giving  themselves  up  to  God,  in  covenant.  Two  young 
women  appear  desirous  of  joining,  but  were  set  by  for  y*  present. 
Appointed  ye  Sacrament  to-morrow. 
29.  I  preachd  from  John  6 :  
27.  Administered  ye  Ordinance  of 
j-  Lords  Sup-  to  eleven  very  devout  Indian  communicants.  At  even- 
ing Isaac,  Peter  and  Nicolas  came  to  discourse  upon  y-  man-  of  ad- 
ministering the  
Sacrament  and  ye  admission  of  new  members. 
30.  The  Chiefs  had  a  general  Council.  Had  some  important  busi- 
ness from  ye  Onyda  tribe  as  if  the  English  were  determined  to  cut 
them  off  and  take  away  yr  lands.  Write  a  letter  to  General  Johnson, 
which  I  am  desird  to  carry  to  him,  as  an  introduction  to  a  Treaty  on 
wh*  was  heard.    Agreed  to  meet  again  to-morrow  about  5  o'clock  p.m. 
31.  At  a  General  Council  read  a  letter  to  Gen1  Johnson.  Ad- 
mitted three  new  members  into  y-  chh.  Discoursed  with  them 
upon  y-  things  which  have  been  said  here.  Gave  Peter  a  jacket  worth 
5  dollars. 
September. 
1.  Reckond  and  setld  with  Elisha  Gunn.  Pd  by  order  upon 
Dr.  Rice,  which  was  ye  ballance  3:17:9.  Remains  due  to  Gunn, 
which  I  am  to  send,  1:17:9.  Left  Onohoquague  about  3  o'clock  p.  m. 
Reached  ye  Great  Hands  at  dark. 
2.  Journeyed  to  Unadella,  encampd  with  ye  Indians. 
3.  I,  togethr  with  Tommy  and  one  Indian  got  to  Schenavies. 
4.  "We  set  forward  and  reachd  Cherry  Valley  at  dark. 
5.  Preachd  at  Cherry  Valley,  from  Mat.  7  .  
7,  Eph.  2:8. 
6.  Visited  Mr.  Dunlap.  Made  some  provisions  to  send  to  Ono- 
hoquague. 
7.  Left  Cherry  Valley.     Reached  Cap?  Fry's.     P-d  9/. 
8.  Reached  S^  Wil^  [Sir  William  Johnson  ?].  Finished  with  y? 
Indians. 
9.    Got  to  Albany.     Lodged  at  Esq.  Sanders  ;  took  £6. 
10.  Reached  Revd.  Hopkins;  lodged  there;  late. 
1 1 .  Rode  to  Blandford  ;  lodged  at  Rev.  Moulton's.  Preached  for 
Mr.  Moulton  from  Mat.  7:7.     3:9. 
 - 439 - 
396  MASSACHUSETTS   HISTORICAL  SOCIETY.  [May, 
13.  Went  forward.  Dined  at  Rev^Ballintines;  lodgd  at  Rev^Brecks. 
Public  rejoicings  for  ye  success  of  the  British  Fleet  and  Army  agst  the 
Spanyards  at  ye  Hand  of  Cuba. 
14.  Got  home  about  5  o'clock  p.  m.     Found  all  well. 
15.  Was  visited  by  divers  of  my  people  :  received  well. 
16.  Preached  a  Sacramental  Lecture.     Mr.  Tift  present. 
17.  Went  to  Potters,  Brother  Baldwins,  Parkmans,  Jos.  Gilberts. 
18.  Prepared  for  the  Sabbath.     Harvest  my  garden  corn. 
19.  Preached  from  John  12  :  
32.     Administered  the  Sacrament. 
20.  Wrote  Rev*  Mr.  Hopkins  ;  visited  Esq.  Converse,  Hinkley,  &c. 
21.  Visited  Cap?  Baldwin  ;  got  my  horse  shod. 
22.  Set  out  on  my  journey  to  Boston.     Lodged  at  Westborough. 
23.  Spent  ye  fore  part  of  ye  day  with  my  friends.  P.  M.  journeyed 
to  Marlborough.     Lodged  at  Mr.  How's. 
24.  Reached  Roxbury.     Lodged  at  Revd  Adams. 
25.  Went  to  Boston.  Dined  at  D-  Chauncy's.  Spent  ye  remain- 
der of  
ye  day  with  my  friends.     Lodged  at  S.  Parkman. 
26.  Preached  for  D^  Chauncy  A.  M.    M^  Checley  p.  m.    Acts  10  :  
1. 
27.  Attended  ye  meeting  of  ye  Comtee  of  Commisrs,  and  setld  all 
accounts  with  them.     Received  £100  in  full,  old  Tenf 
28.  Having  setld,  left  ye  town  at  6  p.  m.     Lodged  at  Cambridge. 
29.  Reached  Westborough  ;  
lodged  at  my  Father  Forbes. 
30.  Journeyed  to  Brookfield.     Found  all  well.     M-  Winter  came. 
October. 
1.  Visited  Brother  Parkman,  Baldwin,  &c. 
2.  Made  some  preparation  for  ye  Sabth     Visited  Comfort  Gilbert. 
3.  Preachd  from  Mat.  7  :  
7,  Mat.  3  :  
29. 
4.  Visited  as  usual.     Hannah  Hinds  ;  had  company. 
5.  Visited  Comfort  Gilbert.     Began  to  prepare  for  ye  Thanks. 
6.  Finished  my  Thanksgiving  [sermon].     Gave  to  Job  Lane  3/4. 
7.  Preachd  from  Ps.  29  :  12.  Married  James  Brown  [to]  Mary 
Beacon. 
8.  Visited  Comfort  Gilbert.     Read  some. 
9.  Wrote  a  part  of  a  sermon  from  John  xi :  
35. 
10.  Preached  from  Acts  x  :12  a.m.  p.m.  an  old  sermon,  1  Cor. 
1  :21. 
11.  Visited  Comfort  Gilbert.     Went  to  see  Esq.  Ayers  ;  not  at  home. 
12.  Paid  Nat.  Bartlet  in  full  for  mending  my  chair  6/8.  Pind  at 
Baldwins  with  Father  Parkman.     Visited  Bror  Ebenr. 
13.  Went  to  Ware  with  Father  Parkman.    Dined  with  Revd  Thayer. 
14.  Had  a  Lecture.  Father  Parkman  preached.  Read  a  letter 
which  I  wrote  to  my  pp  when  I  was  at  Onohoquague. 
15.  Dind  at  Esq.  Hay  wards  with  Father  Parkman.  P-  Aaron 
Barnes  for  tallow,  in  full  3/8  L.  M. 
 - 440 - 
1892.]  DIARY   OF   REV.   ELI  FORBES.  397 
16.  Wrote  some.     Visitd  Esq  Converse  with  Fath-  Parkman. 
17.  Preached  for  Revd  Parsons.    Father  Parkman  preached  forme. 
18.  Visited  Comfort  Gilbert.     Cesar,  Cap?  Baldwin's  negro  had  a  fit. 
19.  Visited  Mr  Fisk  with  my  wife  and  M^  Winter.  I  lodged  at 
Fisks. 
20.  Went  to  minisrs  meeting  at  Ware.  I  preached  from  John 
13-7.  Returned.  Ye  meeting  is  appointed  at  my  house,  ye  3-  Tues- 
day next  May.     Mr  Thayer  and  Mf  Pain  are  designated  to  preach. 
21.  Visited  old  Mr-?  Bell  and  Natk  Bartlet's  child.  Nat?  Gould 
cartd  for  me  12  loads  of  Dung.     Lampson  one  of  wood. 
22.  M-  Lampson  with  his  son  and  oxen  worked  for  me  ;  
drew  stone. 
23.  Finishd  my  sermon  on  John  xi:  25.     Prepared  for  ye  Sabbath. 
24.  Preached  from  Psalm  119:115.     John  13  :  
7.     It  raind. 
25.  Wrote  to  D^  Chauncy,  M.r  Maccarty,  D^  Willard  by  Capn  Bald- 
win.    Visited  Ensign  Barnes,  Comfort  Gilbert,  Sister  Baldwin. 
26.  M^  Lampson  worked  for  me,  with  his  son.     Drew  stone. 
27.  M^  Lampson  and  his  son  worked  for  me.  Drew  stone  & 
ploughed. 
28.  Visited  Dea?  Bigelow,  M-  Weeks,  with  Revd  Beacon.  Began 
my  sermon  Mat.  xi :  
23. 
29.  Began  to  prepare  for  the  Sabbath.     Visited  Brother  Parkman. 
30.  Finishd  my  sermon  on  Mat.  xi :  
23.     Visited  Comfort  Gilbert. 
31.  Preached  from  John  3.:  7,  and  x:  35.  Comfort  Gilbert  dyed 
at  5  o'clock  a.  m. 
November. 
1.  Attend  ye  
funeral  of  Comfort  Gilbert.  Daniel  Lampson  worked. 
2.  Had  2  lads  to  cut  wood  for  me  gratis.    Workd  myself  with  y-. 
3.  Preached  my  own  Sacramental  Lecture  from  Ps  24 : 1,  2. 
5.  Prepared  for  the  Sabbath. 
6.  Revd  Beacon  came  on  his  return. 
7.  He  preached  for  me  all  day,  "  Come,  for  all  things  are  ready." 
8.  It  snowed  fast.     Mr  Beacon  went  to  his  brothers  after  dinnr. 
9.  My  neighbr  Butler  got  me  two  loads  of  wood  gratis. 
10.  Wrote  to  Dr  Chauncy  a  long  and  free  letter,  with  account,  &c, 
11.  To  M-  Hyslop.     Visited  Brother  Parkman. 
12.  Began  to  write  a  se-  sermon  from  Mat.  xi :  
23,  24. 
13.  Wrote  on  the  xv  of  John  an  Exposition. 
14.  Preached  from  Mat.  xi :  
23,  24.     Expounded  as  above. 
15.  Visited  Obr  Rice,  Jose  Converse,  Mr.  Hinkley. 
16.  Joshua  Bartlett  worked  for  me. 
17.  Visited  the  Watsons  with  my  wife. 
18.  Josh,  cut  wood.  Amos  Ayers  hauled  me  3  loads.  Sent  Jos. 
Foster  13/4. 
 - 441 - 
398  MASSACHUSETTS   HISTORICAL  SOCIETY.  [May, 
19.  Finished  my  2-d  sermon  on  Mat.  xi :  
23,  24.  Began  my  Ex- 
position Joh  xv  :  
12,  adjinem. 
20.  Finishd  my  Exposition  on  John.     Visited  Mr-2  Ayers  sick. 
21.  Preachd  on  ye  Doom  of  Capernaum.  Expounded  from  John 
xv  :  
12  adjinem. 
22.  Visited  Mr  Jo.  Batchellor.  Cap?  Witt's  ;  negro  [of]  Capn  Bald- 
win died.  Relinquished  my  wood  of  ye  people.  Received  of  Dea11 
Biglow  £13  salery. 
23.  Attended  Capn  Baldwin's  negro's  funeral.  Jos.  Gilberts  wife 
delivered  of  a  son. 
24.  Went  to  Braintree,  preached  to  a  sick  woman.  Visited  Mr  Ayer's 
wife  sick.  P^1  Benj.  Kimball  for  his  mare,  which  I  bought  last  spring, 
£10. 
25.  Daniel  Wiman  began  a  shed  and  door  yard. 
26.  Wrote  a  sermon  from  Matw.  8:11,  12.  Visited  Caesar,  Capn 
Witt's  negro. 
27.  Wrote  an  Exposition  on  John  xvi :  
9-15.  Mr  Beriah  Rice  came 
to  see  me. 
28.  Preachd  and  expounded  from  ye  above.     Mr  Rice  spent  Sabbath. 
29.  Visited  Mr  A.  Bartlett,  and  Cap?  Baldwin,  sick.  Wrote  to 
S.  Champney. 
30.  Wyman  worked  for  me.   Lucy  How  came  to  see  me  on  Religion. 
December. 
-     1.   Visited  Cap?  Witt  and  Cap?  Baldwin  with  my  wife. 
2.  Visited  Jo  Foster,  esq.  with  my  wife  and  son.  Pd  him  for 
cheese  10/ — 
3.  Prepared  for  the  Sab.    Visited  at  evening  Aaron  Bartlet  sick. 
4.  Wrote  still  for  ye  Sabath.     Visited  Cap?  Baldwin,  sick. 
5.  Exchanged  with  Rev?  Fisk.     I  preached  from  Mat^  xi :  
23,  24. 
6.  Visited  Mr  Ayers,  Aaron  Woods,  Dea?  Biglow,  &c. 
7.  Began  my  Thanksgiving  Sermon.  Wrote  but  little.  Had 
company.     Discoursed  with  Jedh  How  about  his  making  a  profession. 
8.  Wrote  for  the  Thanksgiving.  Had  a  great  many  presence.  P* 
Mr  Lampson  one  dollar;  he  is  to  receive  two  more  of  Dea.  Biglow, 
wh  is  ye  full  I  owe  him  for  butter.     Rec?  of  One?  Ayers  2/— 
9.  Preached  on  y?  Thanksgiving  from  Col.  3:16,  17.  Had  a  full 
assembly. 
10.  Was  visited  by  M^  Baldwin.  Wrote  nothing.  Lucy  How 
visited  on  religion. 
11.  Wrote  an  Exposition  on  John  xvi  :  
16  adjinem.  Wrote  to  Esq. 
Ayers. 
12.  Preached  from  Mat.  8:11,  12,  and  ye  above  exposition.  Bap- 
tized several. 
 - 442 - 
1892.]  DIARY   OF    REV.    ELI   FORBES.  399 
13.  Visitd  as  usual  ;  sent  by  Jo.  Gilbert  for  a  pound  of  tea.  Delivd 
to  him  19/4. 
14.  Wrote  to  Rev?  Parkman  and  Wilmar.  Sent  one  of  DrChauncy's 
sermons. 
15.  Visitd  Mr.  Weeks  and  Deacon  Biglow  with  my  wife. 
16.  Wrote  some.     Visitd  Captn  Baldwin. 
17.  Attended  ye  funeral  of  Aron  Wood. 
18.  Prepared  for  ye  Sabbath.  Finishd  a  ser.  from  Ps.  49.  5. 
Wrote  an  exposition  upon  John  xvii  :  
1-12.    Nothing  besides  noticeable. 
19.  Preachd  from  ye  above.  Receivd  one  pound  of  tea  at  56/ 
old  ten. 
20.  Visitd  Aaron  Bartlet,  Bro.  Parkman,  Esq.  Hayward,  Leut.  How. 
21.  Four  young  men  came  to  chop  wood  for  me  gratis.  Receivd 
150  shingles  of  Mr  Bridge  on  Baldwin's  account.  Gave  Wm  Watson  an 
order  upon  ye  treasr  for  15/52/4,  and  he  gave  me  one  for  ye  same  on 
CapQ  Baldwin.     Onesephemus  Ayres  carted  four  loads  of  wood. 
22.  Had  a  conference  with  Esquire  Ayers,  with  Dean  Biglow,  Bro 
Adams. 
23.  Visitd  Dean  Gould,  Thos  Bartlet  &  Aaron  with  Mrs  Forbes. 
24.  Wrote  a  part  of  a  sermon  for  new  year's  day. 
25.  Wrote  in  ye  forenoon,  p.  m.  went  to  New  Brantree. 
26.  Preach  at  New  Brantree  from  Mw  xi:  23,  24. 
27.  Visitd  Capn  Baldwin,  Mrs  Gilbert,  &c,  as  usual  on  Mondays. 
Took  a  cow  to  keep  of  Mr  Holten  for  her  milk. 
28.  Ten  of  my  people  came  to  get  wood  for  me  gratis. 
29.  Two  more  came  to  get  wood  gratis.      Got  about  15  cord. 
30.  Had  a  conference  with  Esq.  Ayers  with  a  number  of  ye  gp  at 
ye  school  house. 
31.  Made  some  preparations  for  ye  Sabbath.  Visitd  Capn  Baldwin's 
wife. 
Expended  for  my  support  and  family  in  1762,  55 :  14:  0. 
Rev.  Dr.  Edward  J.  Young,  Rev.  Dr.  Alexander  McKenzie, 
and  Mr.  Charles  C.  Smith  were  appointed  as  the  Committee 
for  publishing  the  Proceedings  for  the  next  year. 
The  Corresponding  Secretary  said  that  he  had  received 
a  letter  from  Mr.  John  Fiske  accepting  the  membership  to 
which  he  was  elected  at  the  March  meeting. 
Mr.  Abner  C.  Goodell,  Jr.,  to  whom  had  been  referred 
several  letters  from  Major  James  Walter,  submitted  a  report, 
which  was  accepted  and  ordered  to  be  placed  on  file. 
 - 443 - 
400  MASSACHUSETTS   HISTORICAL   SOCIETY.  [May, 
Mr.  Charles  C.  Smith  said  that  he  desired  to  communicate 
from  our  learned  associate,  Mr.  Charles  J.  Hoadly,  who  has  done 
so  much  to  illustrate  the  history  of  Connecticut,  a  copy  of  the 
diary  of  one  of  the  Connecticut  chaplains  during  a  part  of  the 
siege  of  Boston.  The  diary  covers  the  period  from  July  31  to 
Nov.  12, 1775,  and  was  kept  by  Rev.  Benjamin  Boardman,  then 
of  Middle  Haddam,  and  chaplain  of  the  Second  Connecticut 
Regiment,  Gen.  Joseph  Spencer's.  Mr.  Boardman  was  a  na- 
tive of  
Middle  town,  Connecticut,  a  graduate  of  Yale  College  in 
the  class  of  1758,  and  afterward,  for  two  years,  a  tutor  in  the 
College.  In  1762  he  was  ordained  at  Middle  Haddam,  where 
he  remained  upward  of  twenty-one  years.  In  May,  1784,  he 
was  installed  over  the  South  Church  in  Hartford,  from  which 
he  was  dismissed  in  1790.  He  died  Feb.  8,  1802,  at  the  age 
of  seventy.  Though  not  of  much  historical  importance,  the 
diary  supplements  the  interesting  letters  of  the  brothers  Hunt- 
ington, also  Connecticut  men,  communicated  by  Mr.  Wolcott 
at  the  last  meeting  of  the  Society,  and  adds  appreciably  to  our 
knowledge  of  the  camp-life  around  Boston.  The  original  of 
the  diary  is  in  the  possession  of  the  Hon.  Henry  Barnard,  of 
Hartford. 
Diary  of  Rev.  Benjamin  Boardman. 
Monday  July  31.  Last  night  about  one  of  the  clock,  a  brisk  fire 
from  the  enemy  at  Roxbury.  One  of  our  centry  was  hurled  round  by 
a  cannon  ball,  &  thrown  down,  which  gave  him  a  considerable  of  a 
shock.  The  enemy  fired  Georges  Tavern  &  several  adjacent  build- 
ings. One  regular  deserted  &  come  over  to  us  here  at  Roxbury. 
There  was  an  action  at  the  Light  House  in  which  we  lost  but  one  man 
belonging  to  the  Massachusetts  ;  
had  oue  slightly  wounded  :  took  about 
40  prisoners  24  marines  and  12  Tories  :  killed  one  Lieu*,  who  was  ye 
chief  commander  of  ye  marines  :  wounded  3  or  4,  burnt  the  buildings 
on  ye  Island,  &  two  small  schooners  ;  one  loaded  with  goods  which  our 
people  took. 
At  Cambridge  only  one  of  our  men  killed  belonging  to  the  Massa- 
chusetts.    We  
killed  3  of  ye  regulars  ;  took  7  guns  2  hats. 
Tuesday  Aug*  1.  Much  firing  at  Bunker  Hill.  Our  people  killed 
4  or  5  regulars,  took  one.  Some  firing  here  from  the  Floating  Battery 
3  24  pounders  from  our  Hill  —  no  great  execution. 
Wednesday  Aug1  2.      Nothing  special  to  day. 
Thursday  Aug1  3.  Captn  Parker  of  the  Province  a  day  or  two  past, 
for  defrauding  his   souldiers   of  their  bounty,  wages  &cv  for  making 
 - 444 - 
1892.]                DIARY   OF   REV.    BENJAMIN    BOARDMAN.  401 
false  returns,  drawing  more  rations  than  he  had  a  just  right  to  was 
broke  and  dismissed  from  the  service  of  his  country.  Also  Colnl  Gardi- 
ner of  
Rhode  Island  for  deserting  his  post  in  time  of  action  at  Bunkers 
Hill,  cowardice,  &c.  was  broke  &  dismissed  out  of  service  as  being 
unfit  to  serve  his  country  in  any  military  capacity. 
Friday  Aug1  4.  Tis  reported  that  Colnl  Grant  is  arrived  from 
England  to  Boston,  who  said  in  Parliament  that  the  Americans  were 
cowards  &  would  not  fight  &c.  &c. 
Saturday  Aug*  5.  Last  night  a  party  of  600  men  were  ordered  out 
on  fatigue  to  throw  up  some  advanced  works,  which  they  did  unmolested, 
the  enemy  not  firing  a  gun  at  them.  This  day  I  moved  into  tent. 
Also  Mr.  Whiting  set  out  for  Connecticut,  had  my  horse. 
Sabbath  Day  Aug*  6.  Last  night  went  a  detachment  of  troops  to 
carry  on  the  same  works  as  mentioned  before. 
Monday  Aug*  7.  We  hear  this  day  y1  ye  troops  in  Boston  are  in 
trouble,  want  of  fuel,  provisions,  &  health,  so  y*  some  think  they  will 
not  be  able  to  stand  it  much  longer  without  some  special  recruits  ; —  that 
they  are  shipping  some  of  yr  most  valuable  effects,  some  of  the  soul- 
diers  families  are  put  on  board  the  vessels  &c,  that  they  have  disman- 
tled the  Castle  &c.  One  Brockway  of  Lime  died  this  day  of  ye  small 
pox. 
Tuesday  Aug1  8.  Searg*  Coolly  died  of  Cap*  Wills's  company,  be- 
longed to  
Somers.  Tis  said  ye  regulars  are  putting  yr  goods  &  fami- 
lies on  
board  their  ships  ;  that  they  are  to  demolish  ye  Castle,  destroy 
Boston  &c.  and  then  return  home.     Wants  confirmation. 
Wednesday  Aug1  9.  This  day  attended  the  funeral  of  Searg*  Cooley  of 
Somers.  Doctr  Kneeland  in  camp.  Mr  Fuller  of  Cape  Ann,  his  wife, 
&  Molly  Win  came  into  Roxbury,  &c.  &c. 
Thursday  Aug'  10.  Mr.  Fuller,  Mrs.  Fuller,  &  Molly  Win  break- 
fasted at  
our  quarters,  went  up  to  my  tent,  drank  a  glass  of  wine  ;  went 
out  of  town  about  11  o'clock.  About  30  prisoners,  some  marines  & 
some  tories,  came  to  Cambridge  yesterday  ;  taken  away  to  ye  eastward, 
towards  Machias  ;  among  whom  was  one  Jones,  who  was  very  active 
in  providing  lumber  &c.  for  ye  regulars.  Mr.  Wheat  from  Norwich 
brings  news  that  the  regulars  had  taken  about  2000  sheep,  &  above  a 
100  head  of  cattle  off  Fishers  Island.  News  that  a  n°  of  regular  officers 
among  whom  was  a  gen1  went  out  to  sail  for  yr  pleasure,  &  were  taken 
by  our  people  :  wants  confirmation. 
Friday  Au<f  11.  Last  night  plentifull  rain,  considerable  thunder  & 
lightning.  Two  Blins,  cousins,  of  Captn  Chesters  company,  and  one 
Dodge  of  Capt"  Wells'  compy  were  whipped  10  stripes  for  desertion, 
&  ye  2  Blins  fined  15/  cash  &  Dodge  52/,  to  be  taken  out  of  their 
wages,  to  pay  for  yr  being  taken  up  &  brought  to  camp.  Visited  the 
sick  this  day,  baptized  one  Benjamin  Taylor  of  Hebron  who  was  very 
sick,  after   having  discoursed  with   him  upon  y*  subject  a  day  or  two 
51 
 - 445 - 
402  MASSACHUSETTS   HISTORICAL   SOCIETY.  [May, 
before.      Mr  Sam11  Eells  &   Mr.   Bray  came  into  camp.      Mr.   Bray- 
prayed  with  my  reg\ 
Saturday  Aug*  12.  Nothing  very  special  this  day,  except  many 
visitors. 
Sabbath  Aug*  13.  Last  night  a  party  of  fatigue  men  about  500 
opened  an  advanced  intrenchment  at  a  place  called  Lambs  Damin.  A 
quiet  day  for  publick  worship.  Mr  Sam11  Eells  preached  for  me  in 
the  forenoon,  &  Mr  Bray  in  the  afternoon. 
Monday  Aug*  1 4.     Nothing  special  this  day. 
Tuesday  Aug*  15.  This  morning  two  persons  were  punished:  one 
Taylor  of  Captn  Wells  company  for  stealing  for  which  he  received  10 
stripes  &  was  fined  30/  —  the  other  for  forging  an  order  for  2  qts  
of 
rum  on  Ens11  Cole  for  which  he  was  fined  3/.  A  n°  of  ships  came  in 
this  day  supposed  to  be  those  that  went  to  Fishers  Island  &c.  One 
of  Captn  Clefts  men  died,  who  belonged  to  Col1  Parsons  reg\  A  few 
cannon  fired  this  afternoon,  one  of  ye  train  had  a  cannon  ball  grazed 
his  head,  took  off  some  of  the  skin,  but  does  well. 
Wednesday  Aug*  16.  Have  had  a  pretty  poor  day,  took  physick, 
worked  smartly,  am  somewhat  feeble  ;  have  had  the  camp  disorder  2 
or  3  days ;  discharge  much  blood.  Moved  back  from  tent  into  the 
house. 
Thursday  Aug*  17.  Two  men  on  the  main  guard  had  their  guns 
each  of  ym  broke  with  the  shot  of  a  cannon  ball  ;  neither  of  the  men 
hurt.  The  enemy  also  sent  two  or  3  bombs,  one  broke  in  the  air,  one 
,  
man  was  hurt  a  little  with  some  of  the  broken  pieces.  3  men  got  out 
of  Boston  under  a  pretence  of  going  a  fishing  ;  one  regular  taken  at 
Cambridge  ;  a  man  killed  by  the  centry  last  night  at  Cambridge  ;  the 
centry  hailed  him,  but  he  refused  to  answer,  so  he  lost  his  life  like  a 
fool.  This  day  about  5  o'clock  in  the  afternoon  John  Hilton  Higbe 
died  after  a  long  distressing  turn  of  camp  sickness,  he  belonged  to 
Majr  Meigs  company. 
Friday  Aug*  IS.  A  fine  shower  of  rain  last  night.  The  regulars 
fired  a  few  cannon  this  morning,  but  have  done  no  hurt.  This  day 
attended  ye  funeral  of  John  H.  Higbe ;  
he  is  the  4th  person  y*  has  died 
with  sickness  in  Gen1  Spencers  reg*. 
Saturday  Aug*  19.  Last  night  there  come  over  to  us  a  deserter 
from  the  regulars.  Some  firing  last  night,  but  none  of  our  people  were 
hurt.  The  enemy  sent  a  very  large  bomb,  it  did  no  hurt.  Some  firing 
this  morning,  but  no  man  hurt,  except  2  or  3  of  the  riflemen  a  little 
hurt  with  some  pieces  of  brick  struck  from  a  chimney  with  a  cannon 
ball.  The  regulars  took  8  or  9  cows  from  our  side,  a  little  distance 
from  our  centries.  James  Lord  of  Hartfd  died  about  3  o'clock  this 
afternoon. 
Sabbath  Day  Aug*  20.  Quiet  last  night  &  this  morning  ;  a  peace- 
able sabbath  ;  had  opportunity  for  publick  worship.    Mr  Marsh  of  New 
 - 446 - 
1892.]  DIARY   OF   EEV.    BENJAMIN   BOARDMAN.  403 
Hartford  preached  for  me  in  the  forenoon,  from  those  words  in  Judges 
5.  18.  and  Mr.  Bliss  preached  in  the  afternoon  from  those  words  in 
Deut.  23,  9-14,  and  had  he  have  digested  his  subject  might  have  done 
well,  but  attempting  to  extemporize  it  was  as  it  was. 
Monday  Aug1  21.  Our  people  went  out  with  boats  to  amuse  the 
enemy  :  returned  in  safety,  gave  fire  at  ye  comm11  but  received  none 
from  the  enemy.  It  has  been  a  very  hot  day  ;  put  my  horse  to  Captn 
Peritts  pasture.  Died  Benjn  Taylor  of  Hebron  in  Captn  Wells  com- 
pany. 
Tuesday  Aug1  22.  Last  night  a  deserter  come  over  to  us  says  yy 
have  provisions  enough,  1500  sheep  at  Charlestown  ;  
dont  intend  to 
come  out  till  yy  have  recruits;  expect  4000,  or  4  regts;  he  came  out 
because  of  hard  usage  or  service.  He  also  informs  y*  
the  enemy  design 
an  advanced  work  to  Georges  tavern  ;  this  engages  our  Generals  atten- 
tion. On  Friday  last  Col1  Gerrish  was  cashiered  for  cowardice  at 
Bunker  Hill  action,  &  declared  incapable  of  any  imployment  in  the 
American  Army.  A  man  came  out  of  Boston  who  says  'y*  
last  night  a 
boat  came  along,  ye  regular  centry  hailed  it,  &  the  boats  crew  fired  on 
ym  and  killed  4  men  :  this  they  reckoned  was  a  mistake  of  ye  man  of 
war's  barge,  but  no  doubt  it  was  one  of  our  boats  y*  went  out,  which 
saJs  y*  ye  centry  did  hail  ym.  &  y*  
yy  fired  on  ym,  but  could  not  tell 
whether  to  any  effect.     Died  Ambrose  Church  of  Gen1  Spencers  reg*. 
Wednesday  Aug1  23.  The  enemy  fired  a  n°  of  cannon  to  day  but  did 
no  damage.  Attended  Churches  funeral  ;  also  a  funeral  in  Col1  Brew- 
ers reg\  It  has  been  a  very  hot  day.  A  large  fatigue  to  carry  on 
advanced  works,  but  the  rain  prevented  their  doing  much. 
Thursday  Aug1  24.  Nothing  special  to  day.  No  news  from  any 
quarter. 
Friday  Aug1  25.  This  morning  pleasant  and  cool.  I  rode  to  Mil- 
ton, saw  Govr  Hutchinson's  seat  ;  pleasant  prospect  open  on  the  water. 
Got  my  horse  shod,  before,  cost  2/.  A  small  alarm  at  Squantum,  occa- 
sioned by  
the  approach  of  2  or  3  boats  of  the  enemy.  Our  people  fired 
when  ^j  were  about  3  musket  shot  distance,  which  occasioned  their  re- 
turn, and  so  ye  fray  ended.  A  ship  or  two  came  in,  and  a  salute  parsed 
of  about  18  cannon.  To  this  time  we  have  lost  out  of  our  reg*  14, 
8  with  sickness,  &  6  killed  by  the  enemy. 
Saturday  Aug1  26.  Near  30  sail  put  out  to  sea.  Last  evening  there 
was  a  considerable  firing  of  cannon  &  small  arms,  this  occasioned  by  4 
of  the  regulars  deserting  and  coming  over  to  our  people.  Also  this 
morning  one  regular  deserted  from  the  floating  battery  and  come  to  our 
people.      Colon1  Dyer  &  Elderkin  here  to  day. 
Sabbath  Aug1  27.  Last  night  our  people  opened  an  intrenchment  on 
Plowed  Hill  which  was  an  advanced  post  towards  the  enemy,  which 
brought  on  a  fire  from  the  enemy  y*  has  continued  all  day  :  ye  enemy 
have  killed  2  of  our  men,  &  wounded  2  more  ;  one  of  ym  is  a,  rifleman 
 - 447 - 
404  MASSACHUSETTS    HISTORICAL  SOCIETY.  [May, 
who  has  his  leg  cut  off  by  the  surgeon  ;  the  other  has  a  flesh  wound  re- 
ceived on  the  side  of  his  face  and  nose  by  a  splinter  shivered  from  a  rail 
by  a  cannon  ball.  The  enemy  have  this  day  fired  265,  more  like  3  or 
400,  cannon  at  our  people.  We  hit  one  of  their  floating  batteries  with  a 
cannon  ball.  We  had  a  quiet  day  at  Roxbury  for  publick  worship.  I 
preach  all  day  from  Deut.  32.  29.  We  had  several  little  showers  of 
rain  this  day  which  was  much  needed. 
Monday  Aug1,  28.  Last  night  we  had  an  extraordinary  thunder  storm, 
much  lightning,  hard  thunder,  noble  rain.  This  day  one  Couch  of 
Symsbury  died,  of  Capt"  Pettybones  company  &  Spencers  reg*.  This 
makes  o1  loss  15,  9  of  sickness  &  6  killd.  One  of  our  men  killed  this 
day  at  Prospect  Hill  with  a  cannon  ball.  Also  a  deserter  came  over  to 
our  people  last  night.  He  swam  off  naked.  He  had  been  confined  for 
insulting  an  officer,  and  his  desertion  seemed  evidently  occasioned  by 
this  rather  than  any  dislike  to  fight  ag*  America. 
Tuesday  Aug1  29.  A  fine  rain  to  day.  Mr.  Norton  paid  me  £12  in 
cash  towards  my  wages  as  chaplain,  which  he  brought  me  from  the 
comtee  of  the  pay  table  at  Hartford.  The  enemy  have  fired  some  to  day. 
One  of  ye  riflemen  died  here  today.  Tis  said  he  that  was  wounded  & 
had  his  leg  cut  off  is  dead.  We  hear  this  day  that  a  brig  has  arrived  at 
N.  Y.  with  60  tun  of  powder  &  500  stand  of  arms  ;  that  when  she  sailed 
from  England,  orders  were  for  6  regts  to  get  ready  for  America.  She 
has  had  10  or  11  weeks  passage. 
Wednesday  Aug*  30.  Steady  rain.  No  progress  this  morning  in  the 
field.  The  enemy  threw  bombs  last  night  to  our  people  at  Cambridge. 
We  hear  yy  did  no  damage,  most  of  ym  fell  short.  One  of  Major  Enos's 
men  primed  his  gun,  flashed  it,  &  not  having  stopped  his  powder  horn 
the  powder  took  fire  hurt  himself  considerably,  &  two  more  in  some 
measure  ;  all  being  in  tent. 
Thursday  Aug1  31.  Rainy  this  morning  &  so  continued  all  the  day. 
The  enemy  sent  a  n°  of  bombs  from  Bunkers  Hill  to  our  people,  the 
effect  dont  yet  come  to  hand.  I  collected  this  day  in  Cash  for  the 
encourag*  of  Mr  Bushnels  Machine  the  sum  of  £13.  4.  4.  in  cash  out  of 
our  reg*. 
Friday  Septr  1st.  Last  night  about  one  of  the  clock  the  enemy  gave 
us  at  Roxbury  for  about  a  quarter  of  an  hour  the  briskest  and  hottest 
fire  that  we  have  yet  had  here.  They  sent  4  bombs,  and  as  soon  as 
they  had  discharged  the  bomb  yy  immediately  fired  cannon.  They 
killed  2  of  our  men,  one  belonging  to  Col1  Danielsons  reg*  —  his  name 
Dewey.  The  other  belonged  to  Colon11  Huntingtons  reg*.  Ball  lodged 
in  breast,  who  was  on  the  centry,  his  name  Carpenter.  They  wounded 
but  one,  he  with  a  brick  struck  by  ye  ball.  2  regulars  deserted  about  an 
hour  before  the  fire  began  and  come  over  to  our  people.  This  afternoon 
we  find  another  killed  last  night,  he  belonged  to  Col1  Larneds  reg*.  This 
last  clause  is  contradicted,  for  the  man  said  to  be  missing  &  found  dead 
 - 448 - 
1892.]  DIARY   OF   REV.    BENJAMIN   BOARDMAN.  405 
was  found  out  at  Huttons  wood  lot  by  a  number  of  our  people  that  were 
out  a  cutting  wood,  cowards. 
Saturday  Sepf  2.  This  day  we  observed  the  enemy  had  made  some 
advances  in  their  works  ag*  us,  which  engaged  us  to  give  them  fire. 
We  gave  them  22  cannon  shot,  yy  returned  12  &  one  bomb  in  the  fore- 
noon, in  
the  afternoon  there  were  a  few  more,  but  yy  still  kept  their 
works. 
Sabbath  Day  Sepf  3.  Cloudy,  cool  &  somewhat  rainy  this  morning, 
&  after  morning  prayers  the  rain  increased  and  about  the  middle  of  the 
day  rained  hard,  and  continued  so  all  day  which  has  been  the  most 
rainy  of  any  day  for  this  many  months.  We  have  had  no  opportunity 
for  publick  worship  this  day. 
Monday  Septr  4.  Weather  cloudy  .and  wets  a  little  ;  nothing  very 
special  to  day.  Mr.  Chapman  of  the  Jerseys  prayed  with  our  regk  this 
evening. 
Tuesday  Sepf  5.  This  morning  very  clear  &  pleasant  after  the  long 
cloudy  rainy  season.  This  day  I  went  round  to  the  fort  on  the  hill,  the 
redoubt  on  the  rock,  to  our  breast  work  at  Dudleys  house,  and  to  our 
advanced  works  by  the  burying  yard,  and  so  round  by  Lambs  Dam,  on 
the  right  of  the  road,  &  yr  viewed  those  lines  on  the  left  of  ye  road  y1 
leads  out  of  Roxbury  into  Boston.  Also  looked  of  ye  ground  where  it 
is  proposed  to  build  a  redoubt  for  raking  the  enemys  works  on  Boston 
Neck. 
Wednesday  Sepf  6.  We  hear  this  morning  that  yesterday  a  number 
of  regulars  went  out  a  fishing,  among  whom  was  a  surgeon,  and  vv  came 
on  shore  at  Chelsea,  where  the  surgeon  &  one  more  separated  from  the 
rest,  and  our  guards  cut  off  yr  retreat,  &  took  ym  prisoners.  This  day 
two  companies  one  out  of  our  &  another  out  of  Col1  Parsons  reg*  marched 
to  Cambridge  in  order  to  go  to  Quebeck. 
Thursday  Sepf  7.  Last  night  we  began  advanced  works  20  rods  for- 
ward of  
Georges  tavern.  Mr.  Cushing  tells  us  that  Deacon  Church  tells 
him  that  his  son  came  out  of  Boston  yesterday,  and  says  that  he  dined 
the  day  before  with  several  officers  among  whom  was  Major  Cone  who 
told  him  that  General  Gage  had  received  positive  orders  from  home  to 
remove  his  troops  from  Boston  this  month  home  to  England  ;  that  the 
toast  among  the  officers  was  Union  between  Great  Britam  &  America  ; 
that  several  of  ye  tories  were  gone  home  to  England  ;  y*  several  officers 
had  resigned  yr  commissions,  &c.  Stephen  Ranny  who  was  sentenced 
by  a  court  martial  yesterday  to  receive  8  stripes  on  the  naked  body  with 
cat  of  nine  tayls,  was  this  morning  graciously  pardoned  by  the  General, 
for  which  he  was  very  thankful.  His  crime  was  for  deserting  his  post 
when  on  the  pickuet  guard. 
Friday  Septr  8.  Very  pleasant  weather.  Doctr  Stiles  of  Newport 
here  to  day,  took  breakfast,  after  which  we  went  to  our  works  and 
viewed  them  all  at  Roxbury,  and  see  the  regulars  come  out  to  relieve 
 - 449 - 
406  MASSACHUSETTS    HISTORICAL   SOCIETY.  [May, 
their  guards.  About  eleven  of  the  clock  the  Dr  set  out  for  home,  and 
desired  Mr  Johnson  &  I  to  communicate  to  him  articles  of  intelligence 
from  time  to  time,  he  engaging  ye  same  to  us. 
Saturday  Sept"  9.  An  Irishman  of  Gen1  Spencers  reg*  we  have  good 
reason  to  think,  deserted  &  went  over  to  the  regulars  night  before  last. 
Tis  said  two  of  ye  rifle  men  had  agreed  to  go  with  him.  A  few  cannon 
&  a  bomb  or  two  fired  last  night  a  little  before  sundown,  and  a  few  can- 
non this  morning  from  the  enemy,  done  no  hurt.  Major  Basset  of 
Braintree  came  from  Cambridge  and  brought  intelligence  that  a  priva- 
teer of  
ours  had  retaken  a  vessel  from  the  enemy  in  which  was  alieut.  & 
3  or  4  men  that  had  been  put  on  board  to  carry  ye  vessel  into  Boston  ; 
and  she  was  now  brought  into  Cape  Ann. 
Sabbath  Day  Septr  .10.  This  morning  the  enemy  fired  3  or  4  cannon, 
at  our  people,  hurt  no  man  but  broke  3  guns  &  a  boat.  They  fire  pla- 
toons briskly,  a  strange  practice  for  sabbath  day,  when  they  do  but  little 
at  it  on  other  days.  A  quiet  sabbath,  we  had  opportunity  for  publick 
worship  all  day.  I  preached  from  Deut.  32.  4.  Gen1  Fry  and  Mr. 
Ward,  General  Ward's  aid  de  camp,  attended  our  meeting. 
Monday  Sepf  11.  Last  night  one  of  our  Gentries  on  Cambridge  side 
departed  &  went  over  to  the  regulars  ;  a  rogue.  This  day  six  regulars 
with  a  barge  fell  into  our  hands,  wind  and  tide  being  ag*  ym  they  came 
on  shore,  and  our  people  soon  took  ym  without  the  discharge  of  a  gun. 
One  was  a  searg*,  he  says  we  killed  &  wounded  on  the  spot  at  Bunker 
Hill  1335.  The  talk  among  ye  souldiers  is  y*  affairs  will  soon  be  set- 
tled ;  
we  gave  ym  cyder  to  drink  and  ye  seargts  toast  was  Love  and 
unity.  They  have  had  late  news  from  England,  but  it  is  all  kept 
close. 
Tuesday  Sepf  12.  Doctr  Moseley  came  to  town.  This  day  came  to 
hand  a  handbill  containing  the  petition  &  remonstrance  of  the  City  of 
London  to  George  3d,  and  the  spirited  resolves  &  manner  of  presenting 
ye  same  to  his  Maj^  all  much  in  favour  of  America. 
Wednesday  Sepf  13.  This  day  come  to  Roxbury  about  140  head  of 
cattle  &  900  or  more  sheep.  Tis  said  they  were  brought  from  Canoni- 
cut  Island  &  adjacent  islands.  Tis  said  ye  Duke  of  Argile  is  appointee! 
Govr  of  Boston,  and  one  How  is  appointed  Admiral  in  ye  room  of 
Graves. 
Thursday  Sepf  14.  Nothing  special  to  day  except  we  had  one  can- 
non ball  shot,  which  threw  so  much  dirt  into  a  mans  bason  of  bread  and 
milk  as  spoiled  his  breakfast  ;  also  that  two  ships  sailed,  some  said  yy 
had  troops  on  board. 
Friday  Sepf  15.  Last  night  one  of  the  regulars  deserted  and  came 
over  to  us  here  at  Roxbury.     He  gives  no  particular  intelligence. 
Saturday  Sepf  16.  Another  deserter  last  night  gives  no  very  par- 
ticular intelligence,  but  only  as  we  have  had  in  general.  Also  4  men 
run  away  from  a  man  of  war,  three  of  ym  belonged  to  Connecticut,  vv 
say  y* a   20  gun  ship  sailed  yesterday  for  Quebeck,  and  yy  understood 
 - 450 - 
1892.]  DIARY   OF   REV.    BENJAMIN   BOARDMAN.  407 
another  man  of  war  was  to  sail  to  day  for  yc  same  place :  About  -J  
past 
4  of  ye  clock  this  afternoon  fired  2  bombs  and  5  or  6  cannon  at  our 
people,  but  did  no  hurt. 
Sabbath  Day  Sepf  17.  A  few  cannon  shot  between  our  people  & 
ye  regulars  in  ye  morning.  A  quiet  sabbath.  I  preached  this  day  at 
Jamaica  Plains  for  the  Kevd  Mr.  Gordon,  who  is  gone  a  journey  to 
Philadelphia. 
Monday  Septr  18.  Last  night  5  men  who  had  been  taken  prisoners 
from  Piscataqua,  took  a  boat  and  came  over  to  us,  and  bring  this  in- 
telligence that  our  shot  yesterday  on  the  enemy  killed  one  man  & 
wounded  3  more,  one  of  the  wounded  had  his  thigh  shot  off.  The 
enemy  this  day  fired  a  large  number  of  cannon  at  our  people,  hurt  no 
man  except  the  captn  of  ye  main  guard,  in  a  very  slightly  manner,  with 
a  piece  of  a  brick  or  splinter.  They  also  sent  13  bombs,  five  of  which 
never  broke,  our  people  got  the  powder  out  of  them.  Wonderful  pre-' 
servtn  this  day ! 
Tuesday  Sepf  19th.  The  enemy  have  fired  a  number  of  cannon  this 
forenoon,  jj  shot  a  ball  thro  the  guard  house,  it  went  through  a 
room  where  were  a  number  of  men,  &  yet  not  one  man  huro.  The 
remainder  of  ye  day  very  quiet.  This  day  Col1  Pitkin  sent  us  some  fresh 
fish,  flounders,  &c. 
Wednesday  Sepf  20.  Last  night  a  deserter  swam  over  to  Dorchester 
Point  &  came  to  us  ;  also  5  men  run  away  from  ye  shipping  &  came 
over  to  Dorchester.  The  deserter  tells  us  he  belonged  to  the  44th  reg1. 
—  that  yy_  had  news  yesterday  that  there  were  6  regts  expected  in  about 
a  fortnight,  that  there  were  about  300  or  a  little  better  in  a  reg*.  Last 
night  died  one  Burroughs  of  Gen1  Spencer's  reg*.  This  is  the  10  we 
have  lost  with  sickness.  Attended  the  funeral  of  said  Burroughs  this 
day.     He  belonged  at  Tolland. 
Thursday  Sepf  21.  Last  night  11  men  ran  away  from  the  ship- 
ping, who  had  been  taken  by  ye  enemy,  ye  men  belong  to  Piscataqua. 
The  enemy  fired  a  considerable  number  of  cannon  the  latter  part  of  the 
day,  but  hurt  no  man.     Our  people  are  wonderfully  protected  ! 
Friday  Sepf  22.  Gen1  Washington  gave  out  orders  for  officers 
to  have  rations  ;  in  general  they  will  do  pretty  well,  but  it  gives 
me  an  idea  that  he  sets  no  great  by  chaplains,  as  he  has  made  them 
ye  lowest  in  the  grant,  giving  them  only  2  while  others  have  from 
3  to  15. 
Two  more  sailors  run  away  last  night  & 
brought  off  another  boat  ;  this  makes  8  or 
9  good  boats  y*  
have  fallen  into  our  hands, 
but  they  are  by  no  means  so  much  as  a 
shadow  of  reparation  for  the  numerous  ves- 
sels they  have  taken  from  us.  Preached  a 
lecture  for  Mr.  Gordon.     The  enemy  fired, 
1 
Maj.  Genls 
15 
Brigdr  Gls 
12 
Col13 
6 
L.  Col.             5 
Majrs 
4 
Capta 
3 
Subs 
2 
Staff                   2 
 - 451 - 
408  MASSACHUSETTS  HISTORICAL   SOCIETY.  [May, 
as  a  token  of  rejoicing  at  Georges  coronation,  from  ye  admiral,  castle,  &c. 
   Guilbert  a  souldier  in  Captn  Willys  compy  died  to  day.     Very 
rainy  this  afternoon.  This  day  Capn  Sumner  took  my  horse  to  go  to 
Squantura. 
Saturday  Septr  23.  The  enemy  fired  this  forenoon  105  cannon,  sev- 
eral came  up  ye  hill  by  Roxbury  meeting  house  ;  they  also  shot  thro  a 
house  where  were  a  number  of  people,  but  they  have  hurt  no  man.  A 
very  remarkable  providence  !  God  be  praised.  A  few  days  ago  the 
captn  of  ye  light  horse  cut  his  throat  :  the  occasion  was  not  being  allowed 
to  resign  his  commiss11.  A  funeral  of  Guilbert  this  day.  We  hear  that 
Deacn  Fullers  son,  souldier  y*  
went  home  is  dead.  This  makes  .12  died 
in  our  reg*  with  sickness. 
Sabbath  Day  Sepf  24.  A  comfortable  sabbath,  publick  worship  not 
interrupted  by  the  enemy.  I  preached  from  2  Chron.  20,  12  all  day. 
Col1  Wyllys  thanked  me  &  said  it  was  ye  best  serm11  he  had  ever  heard 
upon  the  occation  &  troubles  of  ye  day. 
Monday  Septr  25.  This  morning  we  hear  that  St.  Johns  is  taken.  The 
rifleman  under  conviction  almost  made  his  escape  last  night,  our  out 
centry  took  him  up.  Query  what  was  ye  guard  about  who  had  ye  care 
of  him.  St  Johns  not  taken.  A  few  days  ago  Col1  Mansfield  was 
cashiered. 
Tuesday  Septr  26.  Last  night  2  regulars  deserted  and  say  yre  are  no 
more  troops  corning  to  America,  y*  a  ship  arrived  a  day  or  two  past 
from  Ireland  &  brought  such  intelligence  ;  ye  ship  brought  provision. 
Wednesday  Sepf  27.  This  day  attended  the  fuueral  of  Moses  Olmsted 
of  E.  Haddam  &  one  Whitaker  of  Majr  Enos  company  who  died  yester- 
day. These  make  14  that  we  have  lost  with  sickness.  This  afternoon 
one  Jackson  in  Captn  Chester's  company  died.  Last  night  Major  Tup- 
per  with  a  large  party  went  off  on  boats  to  Govrs  Island,  I  hear  returned 
to  day  with  1 1  cattle  and  2  horses.  As  a  brigantine  was  coming  to 
Boston  from  Quebeck  with  60  head  of  cattle  &  a  100  sheep,  wind  &  tide 
being  strong  ag*  her,  she  fell  into  our  hands  at  Cape  Ann. 
Thursday  Septr  28.  We  hear  this  day  that  a  vessel  from  New  Prov- 
idence with  a  great  number  of  turtle  &  a  variety  of  fruits  fell  into  our 
hands  at  Marble  Head,  forced  that  way  by  the  violence  of  wind. 
Friday  Septr  29.  We  hear  this  day  y*  Carlton  sent  a  paccat  to  Gage 
in  ye  ship  that  fell  into  our  hands  at  Cape  Ann,  wh  says  that  Carlton 
cant  help  Gage,  and  he  believes  y*  5000  troops  would  subdue  Canada. 
Saturday  Sepf  30.  Last  night  a  hard  frost.  Ice  this  morning  as  thick 
as  glass.  Two  regulars  deserted  last  night,  say  10  regts  are  arrived  at 
Newfoundland,  which  are  now  expected  in  daily.  A  vendue  to  day. 
Black  horse  £10/10.  Yoke  of  oxen  £10/10  £21.0.  Yoke  of  oxen  £11. 
Cow  5/6,  do  £4/5,  do  £4/4,  £24.15.  Heifer  £3/3.  Little  cow  £3.  9.  Yoke 
steers  £8-14-9.  Another  horse  Majr  Tupper  had  for  his  part  giving 
the  souldiers  a  barrel  of  rum.     Captn  Sumner  returned  from  Squantum 
 - 452 - 
1892.J  DIARY   OF  REV.   BENJAMIN   BOARDMAN.  409 
with  my  horse.  The  enemy  fired  briskly  28  cannon  this  morning,  hurt 
no  body.     Middlehaddam  troops  in  the  new  recruits  arrived  to  day. 
Sabbath  OcV  1.  A  quiet  sabbath.  Preached  all  day  from  Colos.  1 .19. 
This  day  Ackley  in  Captn  Wyllys  compy  died.  Saw  a  considerable  of 
my  parishioners  that  came  in  the  recruits. 
Monday  OcV  2.  Doctr  Church  under  an  arrest  for  keeping  up  a  cor- 
respd  with  the  enemy  in  Boston.  Attended  Ackleys  funeral  to  day. 
Stow  souldier  in  Major  Meigs  company  died  this  afternoon.  A  few 
cannon  towards  night.     No  hurt. 
Tuesday  OcV  3.  Attended  Stows  funeral  to  day.  Class  mate  Olcot 
lodged  here  last  night.  Mr  Bird  chaplain  arrived  here  to  day.  Presi- 
dent Dagget,  Brother  Lothrop  of  Gilead.  The  60  head  of  cattle  from 
Quebeck  turn  out  to  be  but  45.  15  were  lost  in  a  storm.  No  flour, 
that  was  in  another  ship  wb  got  safe  into  Boston. 
Wednesday  OcV  4.  A  vessel  sent  out  of  Boston  for  wood  came  over 
to  us  at  Salem,  ye  capn  of  wh  says  Lord  How  is  appointed  Govr  of  Bos- 
ton, Clinton  commands  at  Bunker  Hill,  &  Gage  is  going  home  tomor- 
row. Three  men  of  war  are  going  somewhere,  yy  have  taken  2  or  3 
mortars  on  board,  and  are  to  carry  2  regts,  containing  about  600  troops. 
He  also  adds  y*  
some  say  Burgoin  is  gone  to  Philadelphia  ;  others  say 
not,  but  he  says  that  tho  he  used  to  see  Burgoin  frequently,  yet  he  had 
not  lately  seen  him  for  several  days.  A  ship  of  300  tun  lately  fallen 
into  our  hands,  containing  2200  barrels  of  flour  direct  from  London. 
Thursday  OcV  5.  This  day  Mr.  Adams  minister  of  Roxbury  died. 
Cloudy  &  lowery  all  day.  Yesterday  recd  account  from  Majr  Meigs, 
letter  dated  24  of  Septr  at  Fort  Weston  about  30  miles  up  the  river 
Kenebeck.  4  deserted  from  the  shipping  last  night  &  brought  off  2 
boats. 
Friday  OcV  6.  The  enemy  fired  this  morning  89  cannon  about  9 
o'clock  in  about  %  hour.  They  shot  off  one  mans  arm,  &  killed  2 
cows. 
Saturday  OcV  7.  No  news  to  day  from  any  quarter.  Bought  a  stock 
buckle  8/8  price. 
Sabbath  OcV  8.  Cloudy  &  lowery.  Last  night  a  regular  deserted,  a 
stout  fellow  6  feet  2  inches  high.  After  he  run  away  he  was  fired  at, 
but  when  he  had  got  out  of  danger  he  called  to  Brother  Boston  not  to 
fire  at  him  any  more.  Preached  at  Jamaica  Plains  for  Mr.  Gordon. 
The  forenoon  rainy,  clear  &  warm  in  the  afternoon. 
Monday  OcV  9.  Last  night  2  regulars  set  out  to  swim  over  to  us,  one 
of  them  was  catched  &  carried  back,  the  other  came  over  to  us,  was 
shot  at  but  escaped,  he  belongs  to  the  light  horse  as  he  says.  While 
he  was  in  the  water  he  stripped  off  his  coat,  was  obliged  to  dive  a  great 
deal  to  keep  out  of  sight.  This  day  Isaac  Spencer  had  my  horse  to  go 
home. 
Tuesday  OcV  10.    But  little  news  to  day  except  the  treaty  of  Brister 
52 
 - 453 - 
410  MASSACHUSETTS   HISTORICAL   SOCIETY.  [May, 
people  with  Wallace  giving  him  40  sheep  to  stop  firing.  Infamous  ! 
This  day  I  went  round  to  wait  on  Mr  Alsop,  Col1  Sage  &  Captn  Hart 
to  view  our  works,  they  were  pleased  with  ym 
Wednesday  Ocf  11.  The  day  before  yesterday  a  rifleman  was  whipped 
and  drummed  out  of  camp.  This  morning  another  rifleman  was  drummed 
out  of  camp,  not  whipped,  but  if  he  ever  returns  again  he  is  to  receive 
30  lashes. 
Thursday  Ocf  12.  This  day  dined  on  turtle  at  Capt?  Waterman's,  a 
very  good  dinner.     Little  or  no  news  to  day. 
Friday  Ocf  13.  Went  to  the  hospital,  found  the  sick  in  general  in  a 
hopeful  way  ;  went  to  see  Col1  Reed,  he  is  better  ;  told  me  he  heard  by 
way  of  his  brother  from  Cambridge  that  we  had  taken  a  24  gun  ship  to 
the  eastward.  The  man  who  had  his  arm  shot  off  died  last  night,  the 
watcher  got  to  sleep  and  the  artery  opened  &  blood  ran  till  he  died. 
Deputy  Govr  Griswold  of  Connecticut  dined  here  to  day. 
Saturday  Ocf  14.    Nothing  to  day. 
Sabbath  Oct  15.  Topliff,  soldr,  Majr  Enos  company,  died  last  night, 
18  with  sickness.  Attended  the  funeral  of  Topliff  this  afternoon  after 
publick  worship.  Preached  all  day.  Forenoon  considered  X*  in  the 
character  of  an  advocate  :  in  the  afternoon  on  the  shortness  of  life  Pr° 
27.  Two  ships  came  in  to  day.  I  went  down  as  far  as  Dorchester 
meeting  house  to  the  funeral,  at  Deac11  Topliff 's,  a  relation  of  the 
deceased. 
Monday  Ocf  16.  Nothing  special  to  day.  I  went  this  afternoon  to 
Little  Cambridge  to  attend  the  funeral  of  M  Sodders  child  which  died 
with  the  canker,  about  7  year  old. 
Tuesday  Ocf  17.  This  day  died  Thomson,  souldier  of  Capn  Hooker's 
company. 
Wednesday  Ocf  18.  Last  night  our  people  went  out  in  a  floating  bat- 
tery, &  
fired  a  n°  of  cannon  into  the  common,  but  unhappily  split  one 
cannon  wh  killed  1  man,  &  several  wounded  ;  one  died  today.  Mr  M 
Sodder  gave  me  a  pair  of  purple  coloured  gloves.  Gen1  Spencer  re- 
turned to  camp  from  home.  Timtus  Fuller,  souldier  in  Captn  Wyllys 
compy,  died. 
Thursday  Ocf  19.  This  day  attended  the  funerals  of  Thomson  & 
Fuller.  Bought  a  side  of  sole  leather  that  weighed  2011  &  sent  home 
by  Jonathan  Clark. 
Friday  Ocf  20.  A  rainy  night  past  and  is  cloudy  &  rainy  this  morn- 
ing. Major  Tupper  went  to  Cambridge,  returned  at  evening,  says  a 
post  arrived  from  Casco  Bay,  &  brings  intelligence  that  ye  enemy  began 
to  fire  on  the  town  at  9  clock  yesterday  morning ;  the  occasion  was  the 
inhabitants  refused  to  deliver  up  yr  arms.  Several  men  got  out  of  Bos- 
ton last  night,  among  whom  was  the  man  that  brought  letters  from  the 
Congress  y*  were  intercepted  ;  they  give  but  little  intelligence  for  ye 
regulars  conceal  all  among  themselves. 
 - 454 - 
1892.]  DIARY   OF   REV.   BENJAMIN   BOARDMAN.  411 
Saturday  OcV  21st.  Very  rainy  this  morning  &  all  the  day.  A 
regular  deserted  last  night.  He  says  yy  think  we  shall  give  up  when 
it  comes  winter  ;  that  yy  shall  have  a  good  opportunity  to  fight  us  when 
the  leaves  are  off  ye  trees  &c  &c. 
Sabbath  Octr  22.  Pleasant  day,  except  somewhat  windy.  Preached 
all  day  from  2  Sam1  10.  12.  We  hear  the  enemy  have  burnt  2  thirds 
of  ye  town  of  Falmouth,  Casco  Bay. 
Monday  OcV  23.  Dined  this  day  on  turtle,  in  compay  with  Gen1  "Wash- 
ington &  
other  generals,  the  brave  Doctr  Franklin,  Mr  Linch  &  Harri- 
son, comtee  from  Congress  with  a  great  number  of  gentlemen.  And 
this  is  all  thats  remarkable  to  day. 
Tuesday  OcV  24.  A  raw  chilly  day.  We  hear  a  French  vessel  ar- 
rived lately  at  Shepcot  with  7  ton  of  powder  &  a  n°  of  arms.  Not 
much  news  from  any  quarter. 
Wednesday  OcV  25.  Loveland  died  last  night.  Cold  &  somewhat 
freezing  this  morning.  Attended  Loveland's  funeral.  A  day  of  rejoic- 
ing &  
firing  among  ye  kings  troops  in  commemoration  of  Georges  reign. 
We  hear  that  a  ship  from  England  loaded  with  arms  run  on  shore  at 
Barnegat,  &  our  people  have  taken  it. 
Thursday  OcV  26.  Last  night  died  Gideon  Brainard,  souldier  in 
Captn  Willys  company.  Paid  for  my  side  of  leather  that  came  to  24/ 
sent  home  by  Jonath11  Clark,  also  4/  towards  a  calf  skin  ;  
in  a  guinea 
[?]  Attended  Brainards  funeral  this  day.  Paid  a  half  crown  bill  at 
the  hospital  to  Bebee  for  General  Spencer.  We  hear  that  the  regulars 
burnt  Falmouth  because  they  refused  them  40  sheep  &c. 
Friday  OcV  27-  Bought  a  calf  skin  this  day  of  Sam1  Gove  of  Rox- 
bury  10/  price  which  1  paid  for  in  a  dollar  added  to  the  guinea  paid 
on  all. 
Saturday  OcV  28.  No  news  to  day.  Esqr  Huntington  of  Moodus 
dined  here  to  day. 
Sabbath  OcV  29.  We  took  a  barge  last  night  of  the  enemies  y* 
drifted  on  shore.  Lieut.  Wadsworth  died  last  night.  I  preached  all 
day,  40  minutes  in  the  whole  service  in  ye  forenoon,  &  44  in  ye  after- 
noon. 
Monday  OcV  30.  Attended  Lieut.  Wadsworths  funeral  to  day.  His 
mother  &  one  of  his  brothers  present.  The  procession  was  Ens11  War- 
ner at  the  head  of  ye  advanced  guard  with  their  arms  reversed  ;  then  the 
searg18  who  were  bearers  ;  then  the  corps  covered  with  black  velvet  ;  
on 
the  top  of  the  coffin  were  placed  two  naked  swords  with  black  ribands 
on  yr  hilts,  crossing  each  other  with  yr  points  forward  toward  the  feet 
of  the  corps.  Then  followed  the  mourners  ;  yn  ye  Col1  of  ye  reg*,  in 
connection  with  whom  were  the  field  officers  of  other  regts ;  then  the 
capt8  &c  of  ye  same  reg*  followed  with  a  large  number  under  arms  wb 
brought  up  ye  rear.  On  the  fife  was  played  the  tune  called  the  Funeral 
Thoughts.     At  the  end  of  each  line  in  the  tune  the  drums  beat  one 
 - 455 - 
412  MASSACHUSETTS   HISTORICAL   SOCIETY.  [May, 
stroke.     Ensn  had  the  colours  half  wound  with  a  black  riband  flowing 
from  the  top  of  ye  pole. 
Tuesday  OcV  31.  Bought  me  a  flanel  waistcoat  this  day,  cost  9/2. 
We  hear  that  Col1  Gorham  with  about  40  tories  are  taken  from  ye  east- 
ward who  went  after  wood  ;  [also  that  Harry  Knox,  who  married  Sec- 
retary Fluckers  daughter,  and  offered  himself  last  June  as  a  voluntary 
engineer  to  lay  out  our  works,  is  taken  &  discovered  to  be  active  in  ex- 
posing our  works  to  the  enemy.]    Mistake  of  ye  clause  in  the  crotchets. 
Wednesday  Novr  1st.  Nothing  special  all  this  day  till  about  7  o'clock 
in  the  evening,  when  there  was  a  movement  among  the  souldiery  in 
Col1  Parsons  reg*  &  ours.  A  tumult  arose  wherein  there  was  mani- 
fested great  uneasiness  about  yr  being  paid  in  Kalendar  months,  but  the 
general  soon  stilled  matters.  I  was  out  among  ym  &  advised  ym  yk  
if 
they  had  any  difficulties  yy  would  lay  the  same  before  ye  general  in  some 
orderly  manner,  &  yy  seemed  to  hearken,  &  after  a  while  matters  eased 
away,  &c. 
Thursday  Novr  2.  This  day  visited  Captn  Hooker,  found  him  better  ; 
dined  with  Mr.  Gordon,  an  agreeable  gent". 
Friday  OcV  \_Nov.~]  3.  Very  rainy  latter  part  of  last  night,  this  morn- 
ing, and  all  the  day  proved  very  wet.  This  day  Isaac  Spencer  re- 
turned with  my  mare  from  Connecticut.     Nothing  special  to  day. 
Saturday  Novr  4.  An  express  arrived  this  day  to  Gen1  Washington 
informing  that  our  troops  had  taken  Fort  Chamble  —  one  major,  2 
capt-  3  lieuts,  a  surgeon,  commissary,  &  83  privates;  124  barrels  of 
powder,  130  barrels  of  pork,  some  flour,  besides  a  number  of  arms. 
Women  &  children  were  brought  by  St  Johns,  their  husbands  saw  ym 
&  told  them  they  should  capitulate  in  a  day  or  2  &  would  go  with 
ym  if  they  would  stop.  A  man  come  out  of  Boston  who  had  been  a 
pilot,  taken  at  Marthas  Vineyard,  &  says  the  regular  officers  were  fixing 
up  the  Old  North  for  a  play  house  &  ye  Old  South  for  stabling ;  ye  he 
believed  those  y*  
refused  to  take  up  arms  on  ye  side  of  gov*  would  have 
neither  bread  nor  water  allowed  them. 
Sabbath  Novr  5.  Preached  in  the  forenoon.  Rained  in  ye  afternoon. 
Mr.  Cogswell  preached  in  our  house  to  a  few,  from  Joshua  5.  13.  14. 
1st  Cx  is  captn  of  all  G-  Hosts.  2dly  we  should  engage  him  on  our 
side.  We  hear  this  day  that  3  vessels  are  fallen  into  our  hands,  by 
help  of  storms  &  privateers  :  one  loaded  with  English  goods  to  ye 
value  of  £300:  one  containing  118  pipes  of  wine;  one  containing 
rum  &c. 
Monday  Novr  6.  This  day  I  hear  a  letter  from  Col1  Arnold  dated 
about  ye  15  of  Oct-  came  to  Gen1  Washington,  which  says  he  was  in 
about  60  miles  of  Quebeck;  yt  ye  people  joined  him  abundantly,  & 
everything  appeared  most  favourable.     Good  news  ! 
Tuesday  Novr  7.    Lieut.  Champion  returned  this  day  from  privateer- 
 - 456 - 
1892.]  DIARY   OF   REV.    BENJAMIN   BOARDMAN.  413 
ing,  &  says  they  went  out  of  Plymouth  last  sabbath,  &  returned  yester- 
day with  2  prizes  :  one  vessel  of*  90  &  ye  other  70  tuns  from  ye  eastward 
loaded  with  cattle,  sheep,  wood,  hay,  fowl,  &c,  &c.  One  of  ye  vessels 
belonged  to  Daniel  Hubbud  of  Boston,  a  late  addresser  of  Gage.  He 
gave  a  1000  dollars  for  the  vessel  just  before  she  went  her  voyage. 
Wednesday  Novr  8.  Tis  said  troops  are  come  in,  &  some  in  the 
offing  to  the  n°  of  2,500  ;  several  persons  came  out  of  Boston  to  day 
who  give  this  ace*. 
Thursday  Novr  9.  About  one  clock  this  afternoon  a  party  of  regulars 
in  about  16  or  18  boats,  5  or  600  in  number  landed  on  a  point  of  land 
called  Letchmores  Point,  in  order  to  get  some  cattle,  our  people  rallied 
about  2000  and  came  to  meet  them  ;  the  enemy  soon  left  the  ground  & 
took  to  their  boats  ;  they  killed  2  rifle  men  &  one  of  our  men  ;  they 
ran  a  bayonet  into  an  old  cow,  which  was  left  in  her. 
The  above  ace*  cant  be  relied  on  :  no  man  was  killed,  one  rifle  man 
wounded  is  since  dead  ;  a  rifle  man  taken,  he  was  in  liquor  when  taken  ; 
not  above  5  or  600  of  our  men  went  ;  not  above  3  or  400  of  the 
enemy  ;  
indeed  there  is  no  certainty  can  be  come  at. 
Friday  Novr  10.  Last  night  was  a  very  rainy  blustering  night.  I 
hope  the  enemy  may  have  had  some  evidence  that  Heaven  frowns  on 
them.  Mr.  Fuller  come  here  to  day,  went  to  Cambridge.  Some 
troops  supposed  to  arrive  this  day. 
Saturday  Noif  11.  Little  or  no  news.  Mr.  Galpin  told  me  that  Mr 
Clark  died  last  Monday  the  6th  inst.  suddenly  with  a  fit. 
Day  before  yesterday  came  in  23  vessels 
To  this  no,  add  the  following  3  ships  of  war 
and  5  merchant  ships  51   Brig 
This  ace*         C  Topsail  schooners  3 
from  a  man    J  
One  sloop  1 
who  observed  j  
one  schooner  1 
at  Nantasket  v  
Three  shallops  3 
A  large  fleet  40  Sail 
Sabbath  Novr  12.  Last  night  4  regulars  came  up  to  our  lower  cen- 
tries,  and  talked  with,  but  our  centries  not  having  yr  guns  charged  they 
went  off  again  after  a  while  :  Stupidity  in  our  men,  they  might  have 
been  taken  well  enough  !  A  cold  blustering  day.  We  had  but  one 
meeting  in  the  middle  of  the  day:  but  a  few  could  attend.  A  man 
from  Connecticut,  Frink  by  name,  says  Govr  Trumbull  told  him  day 
before  yesterday,  that  St  Johns  was  taken.  Tis  said  from  headquar- 
ters that  yre  one  marching  reg*  &  3  companies  of  troops  lately  arrived 
of  the  royal  train. 
[Here  the  Diary  ends.~\ 
 - 457 - 
414  MASSACHUSETTS   HISTORICAL   SOCIETY.  [May, 
Dr.  Samuel  A.  Green  presented  a  letter  written  in  1694 
by  John  Tulley  to  Benjamin  Harris,  his  publisher  in  Boston, 
and  then  said  that  the  writer  in  his  day  had  some  fame  as  a 
maker  of  almanacs,  and  was  well-known  throughout  New  Eng- 
land. He  was  born  near  London,  and  when  a  lad  came  to  this 
country  with  his  widowed  mother,  who  afterward  married  again 
and  settled  in  Connecticut.  The  son  lived  and  died  at  Say- 
brook  in  that  State,  where  the  letter  is  dated.  His  death  took 
place  on  Oct.  5,  1701.  An  account  of  the  Tulley  family  is 
printed  in  "  The  New  England  Historical  &  Genealogical  Reg- 
ister" (III.  157)  for  April,  1849,  which  contains  "  much  wild 
legend,"  says  Mr.  Savage.  According  to  the  catalogue  of 
Ante-Revolutionary  Publications,  which  appears  in  the  sixth 
volume  of  the  Transactions  of  the  American  Antiquarian  So- 
ciety, Tulley's  Almanacks  were  first  issued  for  1687,  and  con- 
tinued each  year  until  1702.  Of  these  sixteen  numbers  the 
Historical  Society  possesses  thirteen,  including  the  last  num- 
ber, a  
posthumous  publication,  which  is  printed  with  a  mourn- 
ing border  around  the  titlepage.  It  is  interesting  to  note  that 
in  his  Almanacks  he  always  began  the  year  with  the  month  of 
January,  —  more  than  half  a  century  before  the  legal  change 
was  made  from  Old  Style  to  New,  —  and  he  was  among  the 
earliest  to  adopt  the  custom  in  this  country. 
In  this  letter  Tulley  makes  an  allusion  to  Mr.  Brattle, 
another  almanac-maker,  though  it  is  somewhat  doubtful 
whether  he  refers  to  Thomas  or  William,  who  were  brothers 
and  both  graduates  of  Harvard  College,  and  each  the  author 
of  an  almanac  published  some  time  before  that  period.  Pre- 
sumably Brattle's  almanac  mentioned  in  the  letter  was  for 
1694  ;  and  if  so,  it  may  have  been  an  almanac  published 
in    that   year,   bearing    on   the    titlepage    the    pseudon}^m    of 
"  Philo      Mathemat."    William  Brattle's  Almanack  for 
1682  had  on  the  titlepage  after  the  name  of  the  author  "  Phi- 
lomath," which  seems  to  suggest  a  common  author.  And  fur- 
thermore there  is  a  resemblance  between  the  titles  of  the  two 
publications,  one  of  which  reads  u  An  Ephemeris  of  Ccelestial 
Motions,  Aspects,  Eclipses,  &c.  For  the  Year  of  the  Christian 
iEra  1682,"  and  was  printed  by  Samuel  Green  ;  and  the  other, 
"  An  Almanack  of  the  Coelestiall  Motions,  Aspects  and 
Eclipses,  &c.  For  the  Year  of  our  Lord  God,  M  DC  XC  IV," 
and  was  printed  by  Bartholomew  Green,  a  son  of  Samuel, 
though  I  attach  but  little  importance  to  this  fact.     According 
 - 458 - 
1892.]  REMARKS    BY  DR.    S.    A.    GREEN.  415 
to  the  catalogue  of  the  Antiquarian  Society,  as  published  in 
their  Transactions,  there  were  only  two  almanacs  for  1694 
printed  in  this  country  ;  and  they  were  Tulley's,  and  the  one 
by  "  Philo      Mathemat,"  mentioned  above.     For  these 
reasons  I  am  inclined  to  think  that  William  Brattle  was  the 
writer  of  the  anonymous  almanac  for  1694,  and  that  Tulley,  in 
his  letter,  alluded  to  the  same  publication. 
Beojamin  Harris,  to  whom  the  letter  is  addressed,  was  a 
well-known  printer  and  bookseller  in  Boston.  He  came  origi- 
nally from  London  about  the  year  1690,  and  returned  there 
not  long  after  the  date  of  the  letter.  John  Dunton,  in  his 
"  Life  and  Errors"  (pages  293,  294),  speaks  of  him  in  compli- 
mentary terms. 
M*  Harris 
Kind  Sr,  These  ma}'  let  you  vnderstand  that  about  a  moneth  since 
I  rec^  a  quire  of  papour,  &  one  bound  almanack  and  one  of  Mr  Brattells 
almanacks  that  you  sent  me  by  the  post,  for  which  I  returne  you  many 
thanks  for  yor  care  therein,  And  the  last  fryday  night  I  receiued  of 
Mr  Blague  a  letter  fro-  you  bearing  date  Aprill  the  30*!1  1694  with 
Mr  Hollwells  predictions  inclosed,  My  wife  hath  also  receiued  seuerall 
loueing  tokens  sent  to  her  by  yor  good  wife,  for  which  she  is  much  en- 
gaged to  
her  for  her  kindness,  being  much  troubled  that  at  prsant  she 
cannot  requite  her  kindness  in  any  measure  Sr,  besides  the  new  booke 
&  printed  papours,  pins,  needles  tape,  lace  &  spice  that  your  good  wife 
sent  to  my  wife,  I  receiued  a  sheete  of  large  papour  that  you  sent  me 
to  write  the  Almanack  vpon,  but  it  hath  receiued  some  damage  by  rea- 
son of  
the  wet  weather  the  last  weeke,  the  other  things  escaped  pretty 
well  saue  only  the  spice  some  of  it  perhaps  might  be  lost,  Sr  I  haue 
not  time  now  to  enlarge  nor  to  write  to  you  about  the  almanacke  but  I 
purpose  (god  willing)  by  Mr  Blague  to  write  to  you  about  it  for  I  in- 
tend it  
for  you  I  had  not  wrote  vnto  you  now  but  haueing  soe  good 
an  oppertunity  I  thought  meet  to  acquaint  you  of  the  things  I  haue  re- 
ceiued since  I  sent  you  my  last  letter.  Sr,  my  wife  prsents  her  humble 
seruice  to  yorself  &  to  your  good  wife  tho  :  vnknowne  giueing  her  many 
thanks  for  the  loueing  tokens  sent  her,  Thus  with  my  loueing  respects 
prsented  to  you  &  Mirs  Harris  being  in  hast  I  rest,  yor  loueing  ffriend 
John  Tulley  senior 
Say-Brooke  May  the  7*  1694 
Mr  Blague  &  seurall  others  of  my  neighbours  intend  (god  willing)  to 
set  out  vpon  their  journey  for  Boston  the  begining  of  the  nixt  weeke. 
[Addressed]  These  For  Mr  Benja  Harris  Printer  at  the  Sign  of  the  Bible,  o-uer- 
against  the  blew- Anchor  —  In  Boston    prsent  with  care       1*  Mr  Nath*1  Lynde 
 - 459 - 
416  MASSACHUSETTS   HISTORICAL   SOCIETY.  [May, 
Rev.  Edward  G.  Porter,  being  called  on  by  the  President, 
spoke  substantially  as  follows  :  — 
Mr.  President,  —  The  attention  of  the  country  has  been 
directed  this  week  to  the  northwest  coast,  where  the  people 
of  three  States  are  celebrating  the  centenary  of  the  finding 
and  naming  of  their  great  river,  the  Columbia. 
As  our  Society  has  among  its  treasures  a  medal  and  three 
quaint  pictures,1  illustrating  some  of  the  memorable  achieve- 
ments of  
the  ship  "  Columbia"  a  hundred  years  ago,  I  thought 
I  would  have  them  placed  upon  the  table  for  the  inspection  of 
members  at  this  meeting. 
The  medal  is  of  bronze,2  and  was  struck  in  1787  to  com- 
memorate the  
departure  of  the  "  Columbia  "  and  her  consort, 
the  sloop  "  Washington,"  for  the  northwest  coast.  It  bears 
the  names  of  the  six  owners,  and  a  fair  relief  of  the  two 
vessels. 
The  origin  of  this  commercial  enterprise  may  be  traced  to 
the  interest  awakened  by  the  accounts  of  Captain  Cook's  last 
voyage.  John  Ledyard,  a  young  American  who  had  sailed 
with  him,  published  his  private  journal  with  a  chart  in  Hart- 
ford in  
1783,  dedicating  it  to  Governor  Trumbull.  Ledyard 
is  credited  with  being  the  first  man  in  America  or  Europe  to 
advocate  the  opening  of  a  trade  in  furs  between  the  northwest 
coast  and  China.  He  convinced  Robert  Morris  of  the  advan- 
tages of  
such  an  enterprise,  and  sought  the  co-operation  of 
New  York  merchants  ;  but  his  scheme  was  generally  regarded 
as  visionary.  He  then  went  to  France,  and  enlisted  Jefferson 
and  Paul  Jones  in  his  favor  ;  
but  as  the  necessary  means  were 
wanting  he  repaired  to  London,  and  there  was  encouraged  by 
such  men  as  Sir  James  Hall  and  Sir  Joseph  Banks,  through 
whose  aid  a  ship  was  fitted  out  for  Nootka  ;  but  for  some 
unexplained  reason  the  project  fell  through. 
1  Given  to  the  Society  by  Joseph  Russell  in  1795.  They  are  painted  upon 
glass,  after  the  original  drawings  by  Davidson  exhibited  at  this  meeting..  A 
duplicate  set  of  these  three  copies  is  in  possession  of  Mrs.  Frank  B.  Sanborn  of 
Concord,  who  inherited  them  from  her  grandfather,  Samuel  Yendell,  one  of  the 
"  Columbia's  "  crew.  The  Chinese  marks  upon  some  of  the  old  frames  would 
indicate  that  they  were  made  perhaps  while  the  ship  was  in  port  near  Canton. 
2  Given  to  the  Society  by  Joseph  Barrell  in  1791.  A  few  were  struck  in  silver 
for  the  owners,  and  a  large  number  in  pewter,  intended  for  distribution  among 
the  natives  of  the  Pacific.  As  the  State  of  Massachusetts  had  established  a  mint 
in  Boston  in  1787  for  the  coining  of  cents  and  half  cents,  it  is  natural  to  suppose 
that  the  projectors  of  this  expedition  had  their  medals  struck  at  the  same  place. 
 - 460 - 
1892.]  REMARKS   BY  REV.   E.    G.    PORTER.  417 
Cook's  official  journal  was  published  in  1784,  and  his  sug- 
gestions of a  remunerative  fur-trade  with  the  Indians  were 
widely  discussed  in  commercial  circles  both  in  England  and 
America.  In  this  country  the  first  men  to  take  up  the  matter 
in  earnest  were  those  whose  names  are  upon  this  medal,  headed 
by  Joseph  Barrel!,1  a  well-known  and  prosperous  merchant  of 
this  town,  who  often  visited  at  the  house  of  Dr.  Thomas  Bul- 
finch  in  Bowdoin  Square,  where  in  the  winter  of  1786-87  the 
plan  was  fully  developed.  Charles  Bulfinch,  the  doctor's  son 
(afterward  a  member  of  this  Society),  was  in  Barrell's  count- 
ing-house for a  time  before  making  architecture  his  profession. 
Captain  John  Derby  (or  Darby,  as  it  appears  on  the  medal) 
was  a  son  of  Richard  Derby  of  Salem,  and  acquired  distinc- 
tion by  
taking  the  news  of  the  battle  of  Lexington  to  Eng- 
land in  advance  of  the  official  tidings.  Samuel  Brown  and 
Crowell  Hatch  were  Boston  men,  and  John  Marsden  Pintard 
was  one  of  the  leading  New  York  merchants  of  that  period. 
These  six  gentlemen  formed  a  company,  and  purchased  the 
ship  "  Columbia,"  2  
two  hundred  and  twelve  tons,  and  the  sloop 
44  
Washington,"  3  ninety  tons,  and  put  Capt.  John  Kendrick  in 
command,  with  Capt.  Robert  Gray  in  charge  of  the  sloop. 
The  vessels4  sailed  from  Boston  Sept.  30,  1787,  and  touched 
at  the  Cape  Verde  and  Falkland  Islands,  and  rounding  Cape 
Horn  in  April  reached  Nootka  Sound  (on  what  is  now  called 
Vancouver's  Island)  in  September,  1788.  There  they  passed 
the  winter  in  Friendly  Cove. 
Having  secured  a  good  cargo  of  furs  the  following  season, 
Kendrick  decided  to  send  Gray  home  with  the  "  Columbia," 
while  he  remained  cruising  with  the  sloop.  Accordingly, 
Gray  sailed  from  Clayoquot  Sound  July  30,  1789,  for  China, 
calling  at  the  Hawaiian  Islands  for  provisions.  The  "  Colum- 
bia "  
was  consigned  to  Messrs.  Shaw  &  Randall,  a  new  Boston 
firm  just  established  at  Canton.  The  furs  were  sold  at  a 
much  lower  rate  than  was  anticipated;  and  the  ship  took  in 
1  The  Society  has  a  collection  of  some  of  the  Barrell  papers  relating  to  the 
"  Columbia,"  given  by  Mr.  Charles  H.  Joy. 
2  Or  "  Columbia  Rediviva,"  as  she  was  often  called  after  this.  She  was  built 
by  James  Briggs  at  Hobart's  Landing  on  North  River,  Scituate,  in  1773. 
3  Sometimes  called  "  Lady  Washington." 
4  For  a  more  detailed  account  of  this  enterprise,  with  illustrations  from  the 
original  drawings,  see  the  author's   article  in  the  "  New  England  Magazine," 
June,  1892. 
53 
 - 461 - 
418  MASSACHUSETTS   HISTORICAL   SOCIETY.  [May, 
a  cargo  of  Bohea  tea,  and  returned  to  Boston  by  the  Cape  of 
Good  Hope,  having  sailed  about  forty-nine  thousand  miles 
by  her  log. 
As  this  was  the  first  time  that  our  flag  had  been  carried 
around  the  world,  the  arrival  of  the  "  Columbia  "  on  the  10th 
of  August,  1790,  was  an  occasion  of  great  rejoicing.  Salutes 
from  the  Castle  and  from  the  town's  artillery  greeted  the 
returned  voyagers,  and  thousands  of  citizens  assembled  on  the 
wharves.  General  Lincoln,  the  collector  of  the  port,  went  on 
board  with  a  party  of  friends  ;  and  Governor  Hancock  gave 
a  reception  to  the  owners  and  officers,1  which  was  largely 
attended.  Captain  Gray  walked  up  State  Street  in  the  pror 
cession  by  the  side  of  a  young  Hawaiian  chief  whom  he  had 
brought  home  with  him,  —  the  first  of  his  race  ever  to  visit 
this  country. 
Although  the  voyage  was  not  a  profitable  one  to  the  own- 
ers, so  that  Derby  and  Pintard  sold  out  their  shares,  yet  the 
others  were  sanguine  enough  to  retain  the  ship  and  send  her 
once  more  on  the  same  errand.  Gray  remained  as  captain  ; 
and  Robert  Haswell,2  who  had  been  with  him,  now  shipped 
as  first  officer.  They  sailed  Sept.  28, 1790,  and  reached  Clayo- 
quot  June  4,  1791.  There  they  established  their  headquar- 
ters, and  put  up  a  large  log  house,  which  they  called  Fort 
Defence.  During  the  winter  they  built  a  sloop  of  forty-four 
tons  called  the  "  Adventure,"  being  the  second  3  vessel  ever 
launched  on  that  coast. 
One  of  these  pictures  represents  Captain  Gray  talking  with 
the  ship's  carpenter,  Samuel  Yendell,  about  the  sloop,  which  is 
seen  on  the  stocks,  while  the  men  are  busy  all  around,  and  the 
ship  lies  moored  in  the  harbor.  It  is  worthy  of  mention  that 
our  esteemed  Governor  Russell  is  a  descendant  of  this  Mr.  Yen- 
dell, who  was  a  native  of  the  North  End,  and  who  served  on 
the  frigate  Tartar  in  the  Revolution,  and  also  helped  to  build 
the   famous   Constitution.     He  lived  to  be  the   last  survivor 
1  Joseph  Ingraham,  first  officer  of  the  "Columbia,"  presented  to  Harvard  Col- 
lege, immediately  after  his  return,  a  collection  of  curiosities  gathered  in  the  Pacific 
on  this  voyage. 
2  We  are  indebted  to  Haswell  for  the  fullest  account  extant  of  the  two 
voyages,  although  his  journal  is  incomplete.  He  was  half-brother  to  Susanna 
Rowson,  the  author  of  "Charlotte  Temple,"  whose  memoir  by  Nason  is  in  our 
Library. 
8  The  first  was  the  schooner  "  Northwest  America,"  built  by  Meares  in  1788. 
 - 462 - 
1892. J  REMARKS  BY  REV.   E.   G.   PORTER.  419 
of  the  "  Columbia's  "  crew,  and  died  in  1861.  Mr.  Winthrop 
remembers  the  old  gentleman,  and  heard  from  his  own  lips 
interesting  accounts  of  the  "  Columbia's  "  voyage. 
Another  picture  gives  us  Captain  Gray  in  the  Straits  of 
Fuca,  "  obliged  to  lire  upon  the  natives,  who  disregard  his 
orders  to  keep  off."  '  
The  war-canoes  are  seen  all  about,  with 
twenty  or  thirty  men  in  each,  evidently  alarmed  by  the  dis- 
charge of  
the  ship's  cannon. 
The  other  picture  in  the  possession  of  our  Society  shows  an 
attempt  by  the  savages  near  Chickleset  to  capture  the  ship  on 
a  moonlight  night.  The  painting  has  become  very  indistinct  ; 
but  I  am  fortunate  enough  to  have  found  the  original  drawing 
by  George  Davidson,1  of  Charlestown,  one  of  the  crew,  who 
shipped  as  painter,  and  who  was  evidently  quite  an  artist.  He 
also  made  several  other  sketches,  which  are  upon  the  table. 
One  represents  the  ship  at  anchor  at  the  Falkland  Islands. 
Captain  Gray  stands  on  the  shore  by  his  tent,  holding  a  chart 
in  his  hand  and  talking  with  one  of  his  officers.  Several  of 
the  crew  are  busy  filling  the  water-casks,  and  one  is  seen 
shooting  birds  on  the  beach. 
Another  drawing  shows  the  iC  
Columbia  "  in  a  squall,  and 
the  last  one  represents  her  probably  at  Whampoa,  where  Cap- 
tain Gray,  standing  under  a  tree,  is  facing  a  fleet  of  vessels 
lying  in  the  roads,  "  while  conversing  with  a  friend  upon  the 
discovery  of  Oregon."  That  was  indeed  a  memorable  discov- 
ery, and  it  formed  the  theme  of  many  a  conversation  in  those 
days  ;  
but  the  full  significance  of  it  did  not  appear  till  half  a 
century  later.     The  story  in  brief  is  this. 
In  the  spring  of  '92  Gray  had  sent  the  "  Adventure  "  on  a 
cruise  to  the  northward  under  Haswell  to  collect  skins,  while 
he  took  the  "  Columbia  "  on  the  same  errand  to  the  southward. 
When  in  lat.  46°  10',  he  saw  a  long  stretch  of  formidable 
breakers,  and  was  convinced  that  he  was  off  the  mouth  of  a 
great  river.  He  approached  the  bar  several  times,  but  the 
outsetting  current  was  so  strong  that  he  did  not  get  over, 
though  he  remained  there  nine  days  hoping  to  do  so. 
On  the  29th  of  April,  near  the  Straits  of  Fuca,  he  fell  in 
with  Vancouver,  who  had  just  come  out  from  England  with 
1  Three  of  these  original  drawings  belong  to  Mr.  Francis  Stowell,  of  Charles- 
town,  a  grandson  of  Davklson.  The  other  three  are  the  property  of  Mrs.  Abby 
Bancroft  Twombly,  of  Newton,  a  granddaughter  of  Captain  Gray. 
 - 463 - 
420  MASSACHUSETTS   HISTORICAL   SOCIETY.  [May, 
three  naval  vessels,  to  explore  the  coast  and  to  execute  the 
provisions  of  the  Nootka  Convention.  The  interview  was  an 
interesting  one.  The  English  commander  said  he  had  made 
no  discoveries  as  yet,  and  inquired  if  Gray  had  made  any. 
The  Yankee  skipper  replied  that  he  had,  and  narrated  his 
recent  experience  off  the  breakers  in  lat.  46°.  Vancouver 
said  this  must  have  been  the  opening  passed  by  him  two  days 
before,  which,  he  thought,  might  be  "  a  small  river  ; "   but  "  not 
considering  this  opening  worthy  of  more  attention,"  he  con- 
tinued on  
his  course,  and  by  his  own  words  surrendered  what- 
ever title  he  might  have  had  to  the  honor  of  discovering  the 
greatest  American  river  emptying  into  the  Pacific. 
Undaunted  by  Vancouver's  scepticism,  Gray  was  resolved 
to  prove  the  existence  of  that  river  ;  and  so  again  he  headed 
for  the  breakers.  On  the  way,  in  lat.  46°  58',  he  discovered 
(May  7)  a  fine,  large,  sheltered  anchorage,  which  he  called 
Bulfinch  Harbor,  but  which  was  soon  after  named  by  others 
in  his  honor,  Gray's  Harbor,  the  name  which  it  still  bears. 
Here  he  was  attacked  by  the  savages,  and  had  to  fire  upon 
them  with  serious  results. 
At  daybreak  on  the  11th  —  one  hundred  years  ago  yester- 
day —  Gray  spied  the  entrance  to  his  river;  and  the  wind 
being  favorable,  he  bore  away  and  ran  in,  under  full  sail, 
through  the  breakers.  At  once  he  saw  that  his  surmises  were 
correct.  Here  was  a  magnificent  stream  of  fresh  water,  four 
or  five  miles  wide,  up  which  he  sailed  ten  miles,  and  then 
came  to  anchor  in  ten  fathoms.  The  astonished  natives  came 
out  in  great  numbers,  and  showed  a  friendly  disposition.  On 
the  14th  the  ship  stood  up  the  river  some  fifteen  miles  farther, 
and  being  convinced  that  it  was  navigable  for  an  indefinite 
distance,  the  captain  decided  to  return.  On  the  19th  he 
landed  with  his  crew  near  the  month  of  the  river,  and  for- 
mally named  it,  after  his  ship,  the  Columbia,  raising  the  flag, 
and  planting  some  coins  under  a  pine-tree,  near  the  bold  head- 
land which  he  called  Cape  Hancock,  and  opposite  the  low  spit 
on  the  other  shore  which  he  named  Point  Adams. 
In  claiming  this  honor  for  the  Boston  ship  we  are  not  un- 
mindful of  
the  fact  that  the  river  had  a  mythical  existence 
long  before.  D'Aguilar  and  Carver  and  Heceta  had  referred 
to  it,  but  in  a  very  indefinite  manner.  No  writer  had  ever 
correctly  described  it,  or  given  it  its  proper  place   on  a  map. 
 - 464 - 
1892.J  REMARKS   BY  DR.    WILLIAM  EVERETT.  421 
Its  mouth,  if  given  at  all,  was  put  anywhere  between  the 
straits  of  Anian  (Fuca)  and  California.  And  Meares,  who 
was  Gray's  contemporary  on  the  coast,  tried  to  find  it  in 
1788,  and  declared  that  there  was  no  such  river  there  by 
naming  the  inlet  Deception  Bay  and  the  headland  Cape 
Disappointment. 
There  is  ample  proof,  therefore,  that  Gray  was  the  first  white 
man  to  cross  the  bar  and  anchor  in  those  waters,  and  tell  the 
world  what  he  had  done.  He  made  the  first  chart  of  the 
shores,  and  raised  the  first  flag  that  ever  floated  over  them  ; 
and  the  name  he  gave  to  the  river  has  been  universally  ac- 
cepted. Upon  this  discovery  largely  —  followed  as  it  was  by 
the  Lewis  and  Clarke  expedition,  and  the  settlement  at  Astoria 
—  "  the  Oregon  question,"  after  long  and  heated  controversy, 
was  decided  in  our  favor  in  1846. 
The  "  Columbia  "  reached  Boston  July  29,  1793.  The  own- 
ers were  again  disappointed  in  their  profits,  but  the  country  at 
large  has  reaped  a  rich  reward. 
Mr.  Porter's  communication  elicited  brief  remarks  by  Dr. 
William  Everett,  Mr.  Justin  Winsor,  Hon.  George  S. 
Hale,  Hon.  E.  R.  Hoar,  and  Mr.  Henry  W.  Haynes,  with 
reference  to  the  name  Oregon,  applied  by  Bryant  to  the 
Columbia  River,  and  to  the  settlement  of  the  dispute  with 
Great  Britain. 
Dr.  William  Everett  spoke  as  follows  :  — 
I  regretted  very  much,  sir,  that  the  business  of  the  Annual 
Meeting  prevented  a  more  detailed  mention  of  the  historical 
services  of  our  late  honorary  member,  Prof.  Edward  Augustus 
Freeman.  The  position  which  he  occupied  was  so  unique  in 
the  department  of  thought  and  literature  which  this  Society 
calls  its  own,  that  it  seems  improper  not  to  dwell  with  some 
particularity  on  the  elements  of  his  power.  I  do  not  propose 
to  give  a  complete  or  even  a  partial  list  of  his  works.  Such 
may  be  found  in  the  obituary  notices  written  of  him  in  his  own 
country. 
Such  a  notice  which  appeared  in  a  Boston  paper  spoke  of 
him  as  a  great  historical  scholar,  but  not  a  great  historian  ; 
and  the  writer  left  us  in  little  doubt  how  he  interpreted 
that  phrase,  for  he  spoke  in  terms  of  the  highest  eulogy  of 
the  late  J.  R.  Green  as  his  master's  superior.     I  
do  not  believe 
 - 465 - 
422  MASSACHUSETTS   HISTORICAL   SOCIETY.  [May, 
I  should  be  rash  in  predicting  that  the  contributions  which 
Green  made  to  historical  knowledge,  not  as  a  scholar,  but  as 
a  writer,  will  be  superseded  sooner  than  those  of  Freeman. 
And  first,  I  would  put  his  services  in  impressing  on  the 
minds  of  all  his  readers  the  great  truth  of  the  Unity  of  His- 
tory, —  that  we  cannot  truly  know  the  history  of  any  one  nation, 
at  least  of  that  race  to  which  our  own  belongs,  without  know- 
ing the  history  of  all ;  that  it  is  impossible  to  extract  a  single 
nation  or  a  single  period,  and  confine  one's  knowledge  to  that 
with  any  hope  of  making  it  accurate  or  profitable  ;  still  more 
that  it  is  impossible  to  draw  lines  and  say,  "  Here  ends  ancient 
history,  here  mediaeval,  here  modern."  There  is  no  doubt 
that  this  truth  came  into  Freeman's  mind  from  the  influence 
of  Dr.  Arnold.1  But  the  pupil's  essays  have,  I  suspect,  had  a 
circulation  and  influence  far  beyond  the  teacher's  lectures. 
It  is  a  pity  they  could  not  have  wider  influence  still.  It  is 
humiliating  to  see  how  many  of  our  most  prominent  writers  of 
American  history  seem  never  to  have  studied  English  history 
except  so  far  as  their  American  studies  forced  them  into  it, — 
never  as  an  independent  field  of  reading  ;  oblivious  or  igno- 
rant that  English  History  is  American  History,  and  American 
History  is  English. 
Secondly,  Mr.  Freeman  thoroughly  understood  and  described 
the  influence  of  great  men  on  their  countries  and  the  world  for 
good  or  evil.  He  never  yielded  to  the  prevalent  fancy  that 
all  national  history  is  a  series  of  unconscious  waves,  where  the 
so-called  great  men  are  merely  the  crests  which  float  a  little 
higher.  He  believed  that  in  the  great  design  of  God  indi- 
viduals whose  powers  and  character  are  exceptional  and  not 
reducible  to  rule,  control  and  direct  their  countries  for  good 
or  evil,  and  that  without  them  the  course  of  time  would  have 
run  in  other  channels. 
And  he  was  not  only  just  to  great  men:  he  loved  good  men. 
He  loved  righteousness,  and  hated  iniquity.  He  fought  man- 
fully for  
the  right  and  against  the  wrong  wherever  he  found 
them,  —  in  Greece  or  Rome,  Carthage  or  Turkestan,  France  or 
England.  At  the  present  day  a  vast  influence  is  exercised  by 
the  historical  writings  of  Mommsen,  of  whom  it  is  hardly  an 
exaggeration  to  say  that  he  cannot  appreciate  the  difference 
1  My  attention  was  called  to  this  point  by  our  associate  Hon.  Mellen 
Chamberlain. 
 - 466 - 
1892.]  REMARKS    BY   DR.    WILLIAM   EVERETT.  423 
between  right  and  wrong.  It  is  most  refreshing  to  turn  from 
his  profligate  pages  to  Freeman's  criticisms,  where  Sulla  and 
Csesar,  Edward  I.  and  Louis  Napoleon,  are  all  brought  to  the 
same  bar  of  eternal  morality. 
Another  very  great  service  that  Freeman  rendered  to  his- 
torical study  was  his  knowledge  of  geography,  and  its  true 
force.  Few  subjects  are  worse  taught  in  our  schools  than 
this.  Excessive  attention  is  given  to  the  earth  as  the  theatre 
of  physical  forces  ;  and  the  department  of  Political  Geography, 
so  called,  is  restricted  to  meagre  and  disproportionate  statistics 
of  the  present  status  of  the  nations.  Freeman  brought  into 
prominence,  as  no  one  else  has  done,  the  necessity  of  studying 
the  distribution  of  the  earth  among  its  various  occupants,  the 
successive  changes  therein,  the  different  signification  of  the 
same  geographic  names  from  age  to  age,  and^he  serious  danger 
of  confounding  those  meanings  by  relying  on  a  limited  supply 
of  maps.  No  one,  for  instance,  can  rise  from  reading  his  essays 
without  understanding  what  the  name  France  means  as  he  is 
not  likely  to  have  done  before.  Scarcely  less  important,  and 
to  many  persons  perhaps  more  interesting,  were  his  studies 
and  expositions  of  the  historical  force  of  architecture,  especially 
as  concerns  the  annals  of  the  illustrious  cities  of  Europe. 
All  these  qualities  were  exhibited  in  his  works  with  a  lively 
reality  which  enforced  the  lessons  he  had  so  much  at  heart  far 
more  than  the  bloodlessness,  miscalled  impartiality,  of  a  certain 
school  of  historians  who  never  see,  or  refuse  to  see  the  signifi- 
cance of  
the  facts  they  narrate.  It  is  very  possible  that  by 
some  of  these  the  name  of  a  great  historical  scholar  would  be 
denied  to  Professor  Freeman.  He  has  somewhere  said  that 
historical  evidence  must  be  in  print  before  he  could  consider 
it  accessible,  —  he  was  not  one  of  those  who  could  go  to  un- 
published manuscripts  for  information.  For  the  like  reasons, 
his  classical  scholarship,  which  was  an  essential  part  of  his 
intellectual  equipment,  would  probably  not  satisfy  many  fin 
de  siecle  scholars.  Just  as  there  was  in  him  nothing  of  the 
"  elegant  "  scholarship  of  the  last  century,  so  he  had  nothing 
of  the  omnium  gatherum  scholarship  of  the  present  day,  which 
sweeps  together  all  facts  relevant  and  irrelevant,  and  pours 
them  over  the  subject,  without  sifting  or  arrangement.  But 
he  was  a  classical  scholar,  as  Macaulay  describes  Somers  to 
have    been,    essentially    manly  ;    
feeling    throughout    all    the 
 - 467 - 
424  MASSACHUSETTS   HISTORICAL   SOCIETY.  [May, 
vigorous  sense  of  the  great  ancient  writers,  and  transfusing 
it  into  his  own  thoughts. 
We  must  deeply  regret  his  premature  death,  in  the  midst 
of  a  lively,  acute,  profound  work,  on  a  subject  teeming  with 
interest  of  every  kind,  —  the  History  of  Sicily  ;  and  it  is  some 
consolation  to  us  to  feel  that  our  associate,  Professor  Goodwin, 
has  rendered  active  assistance  to  both  author  and  printer  in 
perfecting  the  portion  already  published. 
Mr.  William  W.  Goodwin  then  said: — 
It  was  my  good  fortune  to  visit  Sicily  in  1890  in  company 
with  Mr.  Freeman,  and  I  can  confirm  from  my  personal  ex- 
perience all  
that  Dr.  Everett  has  said  of  the  great  historian's 
conscientious  fidelity.  He  had  a  positive  repugnance  to  taking 
anything  at  second  hand.  He  never  adopted  an  opinion  or  a 
statement  of  another  if  it  was  within  his  power  to  verify  it  by 
his  own  observation.  When  we  were  in  Syracuse,  an  article 
came  to  us  in  which  it  was  maintained  that  the  suburb  called 
Achradina  was  never  enclosed  in  a  wall  so  as  to  be  part  of  an- 
cient Syracuse.  Although  Mr.  Freeman  was  suffering  from 
gout,  so  that  he  could  not  wear  a  shoe,  he  immediately  pro- 
posed to  test  the  question  by  an  examination  of  the  whole 
circuit  of  Achradina,  which  he  made  on  foot  in  felt  slippers. 
Any  one  who  has  ever  climbed  the  rock}'  hills  and  crossed  the 
craggy  ravines  of  that  peninsula  will  know  what  this  means. 
There  was  no  difficulty  in  finding  either  the  stones  of  the  wall 
or  the  marks  of  them  in  the  scarped  rocks,  through  the  whole 
circuit  of  several  miles  ;  
but  no  assurances  which  I  could  give 
him  of  the  traces  of  the  walls  could  prevent  him  from  climbing 
each  hill  and  seeing  for  himself.  He  was  equally  persistent 
and  unwearied  at  Girgenti  in  tracing  the  lines  of  the  ancient 
walls  and  in  following  the  successive  steps  of  the  Carthaginian 
siege. 
He  had  a  great  contempt  for  the  ways  of  some  writers  on 
modern  history,  who,  when  they  touch  on  ancient  history,  are 
content  to  borrow  their  facts  and  their  quotations  from  other 
modern  writers.  Mr.  Freeman  never  went  from  one  town  to 
another  in  Sicily  without  carrying  with  him  a  classical  library. 
Thucydides,  Herodotus,  Diodorus,  Polybius,  and  Livy  were 
always  on  the  table  (or  on  the  floor)  wherever  he  spent  a  night; 
and  he  had  his  heroes,  especially  Schubring  and  Holm,  even 
 - 468 - 
1892.1  REMARKS    BY   MR.    W.    W.    GOODWIN.  425 
among  the  German  authorities,  of  whom  he  sometimes  spoke 
collectively  in  rather  slighting  terms.  The  classic  authorities 
were  always  the  basis  of  his  narrative  :  he  never  gave  his  own 
or  any  other  modern  view  merely  modified  by  ancient  authority. 
All  the  classic  quotations  in  his  history  were  copied  by  his  own 
hand  from  the  texts  themselves.  His  knowledge  of  the  Greek 
authors  was  by  no  means  confined  to  the  historians  ;  although 
he  took  comparatively  little  interest  in  the  poets  generally,  he 
was  very  familiar  with  Pindar,  whose  Sicilian  odes  he  knew  by 
heart  and  often  repeated  to  himself  as  he  walked  about  Syra- 
cuse or  
Girgenti.  I  believe  he  was  the  first  to  suggest  what 
now  seems  to  me  the  only  intelligible  explanation  of  the  Sixth 
Olympian  ode,  written  for  the  Syracusan  and  Stymphalian 
Agesias.  It  was  always  the  substance  rather  than  the  form 
which  attracted  him  in  this,  as  in  all  literature.  He  wrote  me 
a  year  ago  of  his  meeting  a  distinguished  scholar  when  he  went 
to  see  the  newly  discovered  poems  of  Herondas  on  their  first 
appearance  at  Oxford.  Both  scholars  examined  the  new  trea- 
sure with  deep  interest.  But  Freeman  said  to  a  friend  whom 
he  met  in  the  street  as  he  was  going  away,  "Isn't  it  queer 
that  E    does  n't  want  to  know  what  is  in  Herondas,  but  only 
cares  for  the  metre"  (the  "lame  iambic  ")?  The  other  met  the 
same  gentleman  a  few  minutes  later  and  said,  "  Is  n't  it  queer 
that  Freeman  did  n't  care  for  the  metre  of  Herondas,  and  only 
wanted  to  know  what  he  wrote  about  ?  " 
The  three  volumes  of  the  History  of  Sicily,  ending  with  the 
year  403  B.C.,  are  a  fragment,  but  still  a  solid  and  a  most 
precious  fragment,  of  a  work  which  perhaps  no  man  except 
the  author  would  have  ventured  to  undertake  on  so  grand 
a  scale. 
Hon.  George  S.  Hale,  Mr.  Justin  Winsor,  and  Mr. 
Henry  W.  Haynes  also  related  some  personal  reminiscences 
of  Mr.  Freeman. 
Dr.  Samuel  A.  Green  presented,  in  behalf  of  Mr.  Wil- 
liam H.  Whitmore,  the  memoir  of  the  late  Augustus  T. 
Perkins,  which  Mr.  Whitmore  was  appointed  to  prepare  for 
the  Proceedings. 
54 
 - 469 - 
426  MASSACHUSETTS  HISTORICAL  SOCIETY.  [May, 
MEMOIR 
OF 
AUGUSTUS  THORNDIKE   PERKINS,  A.M. 
BY   WILLIAM  H.    WHITMORE. 
Augustus  Thorndike  Perkins  was  born  in  Boston,  Sept. 
28,  1827,  and  died  in  the  same  city,  April  21,  1891.  He 
was  elected  a  member  of  the  Massachusetts  Historical  Society 
in  February,  1872,  and  at  the  date  of  his  death  he  stood  twenty- 
ninth  upon  our  roll. 
Although  our  late  associate  was  a  man  of  very  distinct  in- 
dividuality, his  
personal  traits  were  so  largely  hereditary  and 
so  universally  associated  with  previous  bearers  of  the  name, 
that  it  would  be  impossible  to  present  a  true  portrait  of  him 
without  embodying  therein  the  recollections  of  at  least  three 
generations.  Should  this  memoir  therefore  seem  to  be  more  of 
a  genealogy  than  a  biography,  I  trust  the  result  will  justify  the 
method  ;  and  I  must  also  plead  the  fact  that  the  materials 
therefor  were  collected  by  our  friend,  in  a  little  volume  of  a 
kind  almost  without  a  parallel  in  our  literature.  The  exten- 
sive quotations  which  follow  are  not  only  the  history  of  his 
ancestors,  but  an  admirable  revelation  of  the  mind  and  heart 
of  the  compiler. 
The  Perkins  family  in  New  England  has  originated  from 
several  distinct  stocks,  at  Topsfield,  Ipswich,  Hampton,  and 
Dover,  as  is  set  forth  in  the  New  England  Historical  and 
Genealogical  Register  for  July,  1856.  The  Boston  family 
originating  with  Edmund  Perkins  is  not  known  to  be  closely 
connected  with  either  of  the  preceding.  The  emigrant  Ed- 
mund Perkins  married  in  Boston,  about  1677,  Susanna, 
daughter  of   Francis   Hudson    and    widow  of     Howlett. 
 - 470 - 
(^^QyuJ^J  Ufarr^n^cA&    ^o^c^yi^ 
 - 471 - 
 - 472 - 
1892.J  MEMOIR   OF  AUGUSTUS    T.   PERKINS.  427 
Our  author  had  some  grounds  for  the  belief  that  the  emi- 
grant belonged  to  the  family  of  Perkins  of  Ufton,  co.  Berks. 
It  is  certain  that  the  tombstone  of  the  oldest  son  of  the 
emigrant,  who  died  in  1682,  aged  four  years,  has  engraved 
upon  it  a  shield  of  arms  ;  namely,  a  fesse  dancette  between  six 
billets,  three  and  three.1  Similar  arms,  varying  only  in  the 
number  of  billets,  are  on  a  seal  used  in  1725  by  Dr.  John 
Perkins  of  Ipswich,  a  grandson  of  John  Perkins,  the  emigrant 
in  that  town.  There  was  possibly  a  connection  between 
these  two  branches  in  New  England  ;  certainly  an  intimacy. 
Capt.  Edmund1  Perkins  lived  near  the  foot  of  Hanover  Street, 
Boston, 'and  died  in  1693,  leaving  sons  John2  and  Edmund2. 
Family  tradition  bears  witness  to  his  strength  and  spirit; 
more  certain  mementos  are  his  two  swords  and  a  few  of 
his  books,  which  his  descendants  possess.  His  son  Edmund2 
Perkins  of  Boston  (1683-1761)  was  twice  married.  By  his 
first  wife  he  was  grandfather  of  Major  William4  Perkins,  an 
officer  in  the  Revolution,  whose  great-grandsons  James7  and 
William7  E.  served  bravely  in  the  late  Rebellion.  By  his 
second  wife  Edmund2  had  four  sons,  the  youngest  being 
James3,  whose  line  we  trace. 
Of  this  Edmund2  we  get  some  details  rather  unusual  at 
that  date.  "  He  was  sharp  of  tongue  and  heavy  of  hand, 
very  witty,  a  great  hunter  and  fisherman  like  his  father, 
very  skilful  in  the  use  of  arms  and  tools.  He  excelled  in 
wood-carving,  was  extravagantly  fond  of  wrestling,  boxing, 
and  fencing,  and  especially  devoted  to  the  latter  exercise." 
His  house  on  Water  Street  was  "  a  long  two-story  building 
with  a  gambrell  roof,  the  gable  on  the  street,  but  back  from 
it ;  a  wide  yard  in  front  of  the  porch  at  the  front  door,  with 
quite  large  elm-trees  and  a  garden  of  some  size  behind." 
James3  Perkins,  born  in  1733,  married  at  the  age  of 
twenty-two,  Elizabeth,  daughter  of  Thomas  Handasyde  Peck, 
a  merchant,  in  whose  counting-house  he  had  been  educated. 
Dying  at  the  age  of  forty  years,  he  makes  but  little  impres- 
sion upon  the  record,  except  the  memory  of  being  an  ardent 
1  This  gravestone  was  found  by  accident  while  digging  for  the  foundations 
of  a  house  in  a  court  leading  out  of  Eliot  Street  near  Warrenton  Street.  I 
had  the  pleasure  of  calling  Mr.  Perkins's  attention  to  it,  and  we  examined  it 
together  before  it  was  removed.  It  was  afterwards  given  to  him,  and  a  photo- 
graph was  inserted  in  his  "  Notice  of  the  Perkins  Arms  in  England,"  Salem, 
1878. 
 - 473 - 
428  MASSACHUSETTS   HISTORICAL  SOCIETY.  [May, 
patriot  as  well  as  a  diligent  and  methodical  merchant.  He 
left  a  widow  and  eight  children,  all  of  whom  married.  These 
were  James,  Thomas  H.,  Samuel  G.,  Mrs.  Russell  Sturgis, 
Mrs.  Robert  Gushing,  Mrs.  Benjamin  Abbot,  Mrs.  Josiah 
Sturgis,  and  Mrs.  Ralph  B.  Forbes.  The  widow,  in  the 
words  of  Thomas  G.  Cary,  "  was  a  woman  of  excellent 
principles  and  remarkable  energy,  and  undertook  the  heavy 
charge  thus  devolved  upon  her  with  deep  solicitude  (as 
appeared  from  a  subsequent  reference  of  her  own  to  this 
passage  of  her  life),  but  with  firmness  and  ability  ;  courage- 
ously assuming  the  business  of  her  husband,  who  had  been 
connected  with  George  Erving,  one  of  the  principal  mer- 
chants in  
the  town."  2 
The  father  lived  on  King  (now  State)  Street,  close  by  the 
site  of  the  Boston  Massacre  ;  
and  his  son  Thomas  H.  distinctly 
remembered  the  details  of  the  scene.  During  the  British  oc- 
cupation of  
Boston  Mrs.  Perkins  removed  with  her  children 
to  Barnstable,  returning  hither  to  renew  her  mercantile  re- 
lations. Her  last  days  were  passed  in  her  home  near  Sea 
Street,2  where  she  took  an  active  part  in  the  charitable  asso- 
ciations of  
the  town,  and  where  she  died  in  1807. 
Her  three  sons  all  chose  the  profession  of  merchant,  —  a 
designation  then  properly  so  applied,  since  to  be  the  owner 
and  employer  of  vessels  in  foreign  commerce  required  a  train- 
ing as  thorough,  as  technical,  and  as  prolonged  as  that  for 
either  of  the  academic  professions.  At  a  time  when  the 
shores  of  half  the  world  were  unknown  or  unvisited,  when 
voyages  required  years  for  completion,  and  when  a  knowl- 
edge of  the  political  future  of  empires  was  a  prerequisite 
to  success  in  mercantile  ventures,  to  be  a  merchant  called 
for  a  high  quality  of  intellect  as  well  as  of  enthusiasm  for 
the  labor.  It  is  a  matter  of  history  that  after  our  Revolution 
the  sons  of  New  England  obtained  a  foremost  place  in  this  pur- 
1  Memoir  of  Thomas  Handasyde  Perkins,  p.  5. 
2  "  This  house  was  a  large,  square  building,  standing  back  from  the  street, 
which  bounded  the  beach  about  a  hundred  feet  away.  In  the  front  garden 
were  fine  horse-chestnut  trees,  and  many  flower-beds  with  sunflowers  and  tall 
hollyhocks,  very  prominent,  and  oddly  enough,  quite  a  number  of  peach-trees, 
which  bore  finely  at  that  time;  there  were  also  plums  and  apricots.  Behind 
the  house  was  a  stable  and  a  vegetable  garden.  The  house  was  of  two  stories 
and  a  half,  with  a  great  porch  in  front  having  seats  in  it,  whence  a  fine  and 
unobstructed  view  of  the  Bay  was  obtained.  There  was  nothing  but  Sea 
Street  between  them  and  the  water." 
 - 474 - 
1892.]  MEMOIR   OF  AUGUSTUS    T.   PERKINS.  429 
suit,  and  the  honor  was  due  to  none  more  than  to  James  and 
Thomas  H.  Perkins.  In  1785  James  established  a  house  in 
St.  Domingo,  then  one  of  the  most  prosperous  of  the  French 
colonies.  Here  Thomas  joined  him  for  a  time,  and  Samuel 
G.,  a  younger  brother,  later  ;  Thomas  returned  to  Boston  in 
1788,  married,  and  began  his  prosperous  career  by  a  voyage 
to  China.  In  1792  the  insurrection  in  St.  Domingo  1  nearly 
ruined  his  brothers  there,  and  they  were  forced  to  return  to 
Boston.  Stephen  married  Miss  Higginson,  and  became  a  part- 
ner in  
the  house  of  Higginson  &  Co.  The  other  two  brothers 
formed  the  firm  of  J.  &  T.  H.  Perkins,  which  continued  for 
thirty  years. 
In  1819  each  brother  admitted  into  the  firm  his  son  of  his 
own  name.  James,  Sr.,  died  in  August,  1822,  aged  sixty-one  ; 
his  son  James,  Jr.,  died  in  June,  1828  ;  
Thomas  H.,  Jr.  (herein- 
after noticed),  "  after  a  few  years  of  remarkable  success,  with- 
the      drew with  a  good  fortune  "  ;  Thomas  H.,  Sr.,  finally  dissolved 
firm  in  1838. 
In  respect  to  James  Perkins,2  it  will  be  sufficient  to  refer  to 
the  memoir  in  our  volumes.  His  liberality  was  shown  "  by  his 
gifts  to  the  General  Hospital  and  to  the  Theological  School  at 
Cambridge,  his  bequest  to  the  University  for  the  foundation  of 
a  Professorship  of  Mathematics,  and  above  all  by  the  gift  of  his 
house  on  Pearl  Street  to  the  Trustees  of  the  Boston  Athenaeum." 
Thomas  H.  Perkins  was  equally  noted  for  his  public  spirit  and 
generosity.  One  most  memorable  instance  was  in  1833,  when 
he  gave  his  dwelling-house  on  Pearl  Street  for  the  establish- 
ment of  
the  Asylum  for  the  Blind,  which  will  perpetuate  his 
name.  In  view  of  Mr.  Cary's  admirable  memoir,  I  will  merely 
cite  the  words  of  our  honored  ex-President,  Mr.  Winthrop, 
spoken  in  1854  :  "  Thomas  Handasyde  Perkins  was  one  of  the 
noblest  specimens  of  humanity  to  which  our  city  has  ever  given 
birth,  leading  the  way  for  half  a  century  in  every  generous 
1  See  a  very  interesting  account  of  this  insurrection,  written  in  1835,  by- 
Samuel  G.  Perkins,  printed  in  our  Proceedings,  2d  series,  vol.  ii.  pp.  305-390. 
Mr.  Perkins  died  on  his  birthday,  May  24,  1847,  aged  eighty  years. 
2  James  Perkins,  Sr.,  was  chosen  a  Corresponding  Member  of  this  Society 
in  1792,  and  a  Resident  Member  in  1796.  See  a  memoir  by  his  grandson  in 
our  Proceedings,  vol.  i.  p.  353.  This  grandson  (by  James,  Jr.)  was  Charles 
Callahan  Perkins,  born  in  1823,  died  in  1886,  eminent  for  his  literary  abilities  and 
his  devotion  to  the  arts  and  to  education.  He  was  elected  a  Resident  Member 
in  December,  1874  ;  and  a  memoir  by  Samuel  Eliot  will  be  found  in  our  Pro- 
ceedings, 2d  
series,  vol.  hi.  pp.  223-246. 
 - 475 - 
430  MASSACHUSETTS   HISTORICAL   SOCIETY.  [May, 
enterprise,  and  setting  one  of  the  earliest  examples  of  those 
munificent  charities  which  have  given  our  city  a  name  and  a 
praise  throughout  the  earth." 
To  resume  the  thread  of  family  history,  it  may  be  here  said 
that  Thomas  H.  Perkins  was  a  man  of  most  distinguished  ap- 
pearance. His  well-known  portrait  confirms  the  report  of  his 
contemporaries,  that  his  stature,  his  courtesy,  his  speech,  and 
his  writings  all  evidenced  a  leader  among  men.  And  in  his 
generation  such  advantages  were  of  more  than  local  import- 
ance. After  the  Revolution  our  country  was  to  be  tested  in 
Europe  by  such  citizens  as  visited  there  in  a  private  capacity. 
The  power  of  our  fleets,  both  the  official  and  the  commercial 
portions,  was  beyond  question.  It  was  a  distinct  gain  to  our 
reputation  that  we  had  also  great  merchants,  like  Mr.  Perkins, 
who  were  the  equals  of  the  Barings,  the  Hopes,  and  the  Hot- 
tinguers,  and  who  maintained  in  foreign  courts  and  exchanges 
the  honor  of  the  American  name. 
It  has  already  been  noted  that  Thomas  H.  Perkins,  Jr.,  was 
associated  with  his  father,  and  that  he  predeceased  him.  In 
the  "  Sketch  "  from  which  I  shall  now  make  extracts,  the  home 
life  of  this  generation  is  traced  by  a  loving  hand.  The  son  was 
born  in  1796,  and  was  fitted  for  Harvard  at  the  age  of 
fifteen.  The  ardor  of  his  disposition,  however,  frustrated  all 
such  plans ;  and  at  an  early  age  he  sailed  for  China,  duly  en- 
rolled as  captain  of  marines  in  a  letter-of-marque  owned  by  his 
father,  This  vessel  carried  eighteen  guns,  one  hundred  and 
fifty  men,  and  twenty-five  marines.  On  their  outward  pas- 
sage they  had  a  smart  encounter  with  a  British  troop-ship, 
besides  other  warlike  adventures.  After  his  return  Mr.  Per- 
kins started  on  a  cruise  to  Valparaiso  ;  and  after  spending  some 
months  there,  he  sailed  to  London.  In  this  city  he  became 
acquainted  with  General  Devereux,  the  agent  of  the  Colom- 
bian Republic,  who  was  recruiting  soldiers  for  the  war  against 
the  Spaniards.  Mr.  Perkins  was  appointed  on  his  staff,  serving 
for  about  two  years  and  attaining  to  the  rank  of  lieutenant- 
colonel.  The  story  of  his  life  abroad  is  well  told  in  Mr.  A.  T. 
Perkins's  book  ; 2  but  I  will  copy  only  two  pen-portraits,  both 
drawn  by  General  Devereux  :  — 
1  A  Private  Proof,  printed  in  order  to  preserve  certain  matters  connected  with 
the  Boston  branch  of  the  Perkins  Family.  Intended  only  as  an  indication  of  the 
best  points  of  future  investigation.  Boston  :  T.  R.  Marvin  &  Son,  Printers.  1890. 
Pp.  112. 
 - 476 - 
1892.]  MEMOIR   OF   AUGUSTUS   T.    PERKINS.  431 
"  The  first  time  I  saw  your  father,  in  London,  I  was  immensely  struck 
with  him.  He  was  a  tremendous  dandy,  to  be  sure,  but  he  stood  six 
feet  in  his  boots,  —  straight  as  an  arrow,  and  with  the  air  about  him  of 
a  soldier  who  had  seen  service.  He  was  very  handsome,  and  very  pleas- 
ant-looking also.  What  struck  me  was  his  perfect  manners,  mixed  with 
a  quiet  determination  which  sat  well  upon  him.  Although  I  knew  from 
his  father  that  for  his  age  he  had  seen  much  of  life,  I  could  not  get  him 
to  talk  of  himself.  He  seemed  at  least  twenty-three,  but  I  knew  him 
to  be  only  about  twenty.  I  looked  him  well  over,  and  had  him  about 
me  as  much  as  I  could  for  nearly  a  month.  .  .  . 
"  I  well  remember  a  hearty  laugh  I  had  at  him  once,  when  his  orders 
were  that  he  should  report  for  duty  at  headquarters,  at  2.30  p.  m.,  on  a 
certain  day.  Prompt  to  the  moment  he  reported.  Without  noticing  him 
at  first,  I  said,  '  
Here,  Captain,  sit  down.  I  wish  to  dictate  a  despatch.' 
'Would  you  be  so  kind,  General,  as  to  let  me  ring  for  your  valet,  be- 
cause, you  see,  I  have  on  my  walking  breeches,  and  one  cannot  sit 
down  without  they  are  unbuttoned  at  the  knees.'  '  
Can't  sit  down  in 
your  walking  breeches!'  said  I.  'Why?  I  can  sit  down  in  mine.' 
'Yes,  General,  of  course;  but  then  Preston  evidently  is  not  your 
breeches-maker.'  To  which  I  answered,  '  
Come  here,  you  absurd 
dandy,  and  let  me  look  at  you.'  I  remember  he  said  he  had  been  walk- 
ing with  Lady  Jane  and  a  lady  friend  of  hers,  and,  of  course,  had  to  be 
very  smart.  He  looked  as  if  he  had  been  run  into  his  top  boots  and 
breeches,  so  perfect  was  the  fit.  His  waistcoat  was  buff  ;  
his  coat  —  an 
admirable  effort  of  the  great  Stultz  —  blue,  with  gilt  buttons  and  a  velvet 
collar  ;  a  white  cambric  cravat,  and  a  white  hat  and  gloves,  with  a  little 
gold-mounted  stick,  completed  the  morning  dress  of  a  dandy  of  that  day  ; 
'  
and  a  very  pretty  dress  I  think  it  was,'  said  the  old  General,  '  
for  a  well- 
made,  handsome  young  fellow.'  " 
May  14, 1820,  soon  after  his  return,  Colonel  Perkins  married 
Miss  Jane  Frances  Rebecca  Dumaresq  ;  and  in  her  instance 
also  we  are  presented  with  a  most  characteristic  sketch  :  — 
"  Not  long  after  his  arrival  in  Boston  my  mother  came  up  from  Swan 
Island,  on  the  Kennebec  River,  where  her  father  lived  on  an  estate 
which  he  inherited  from  his  mother,  a  daughter  of  Sylvester  Gardiner, 
Esq.  This  gentleman  owned  some  hundred  thousand  acres  of  land  be- 
tween Bath  and  Gardiner,  which  latter  town  he  founded.  Miss  Duma- 
resq was  making  a  visit  to  her  relatives,  the  family  of  the  Rev.  John 
Sylvester  Gardiner,  Rector  of  Trinity  Church,  in  Boston.  She  at  once 
became  noted,  not  only  for  her  excessive  beauty,  but  also  for  her  grace 
and  charming  manners.  Even  as  I  remember  her  she  was  almost  the 
most  beautiful  woman  I  ever  saw.  Her  figure  was  perfect,  as  were  her 
teeth  and  complexion  ;  
but  the  most  striking  points  about  her  were  her 
 - 477 - 
432  MASSACHUSETTS   HISTOEICAL   SOCIETY;  [May, 
eyes  —  the  color  of  dark  sapphire  —  and  her  hair,  which  was  wonder- 
ful. I  
have  heard  of  raven  hair,  but  never  saw  it  but  on  her.  I  have 
been  told  that  when  she  was  married  her  hair  swept  the  floor  when  she 
loosened  it.  Ordinarily  it  was  black,  but  in  the  sun  I  have  often  seen 
upon  it  the  sheen  of  steel-colored  blue,  such  as  one  sees  in  the  sunlight 
on  a  crow's  wing  ;  and  she  was  as  brave  as  she  was  beautiful,  and  as 
courteous  and  gentle  as  a  long  line  of  ancestors  of  De  Carterets  and 
Dumaresqs  could  make  her.  She  had  a  vein  of  fun  about  her  too,  yet 
she  could  never  see  that  of  Dickens  in  '  
Pickwick.'  She  always  said  she 
could  not  understand  the  pleasure  my  father  and  I  took  in  those  papers. 
To  her  they  seemed  not  vulgar,  but  common.  In  fact  she  was  an  aris- 
tocrat to  
the  tips  of  her  fingers,  and  such  she  remained  to  the  end  of  her 
days." 
The  following  description  reveals  a  manner  of  life  in  New 
England  which  is  almost  unique.  During  the  past  thirty  years 
immense  changes  have  been  made  in  social  life,  and  summer 
residences  are  no  longer  a  novelty.  The  seashore  and  the 
mountains  are  now  thronged,  until  it  seems  as  if  every  pleasant 
beach  and  every  wholesome  upland  had  found  a  wealthy  owner. 
But  fifty  or  sixty  years  ago,  the  charms  of  country  life  were 
much  less  apparent,  and  the  large  circle  of  connections  of 
which  Thomas  H.  Perkins  was  the  centre,  was  perhaps  the 
only  one  which  reproduced  here  one  of  the  most  innocent  and 
enjoyable  features  of  English  life. 
"  About  this  time  business  with  China  began  to  wane,  and  Colonel 
Perkins  retired  with  what  in  those  days  was  a  very  handsome  fortune. 
He  then  decided  to  do  what  he  had  always  wished,  which  was  to  pass 
some  months  during  the  summer  in  the  house  he  had  built  on  Swan  Isl- 
and, near  Richmond,  in  the  Kennebec  River,  on  the  place  first  owned 
by  the  great-grandfather  of  my  mother,  Dr.  Sylvester  Gardiner.  The 
old  house  built  by  Dr.  Gardiner,  more  than  a  century  before,  then  stood 
a  hundred  yards  away  from  the  new  one,  as  firm  and  strong  as  a  white 
oak  frame  and  wrought  nails  ever  stood,  a  most  picturesque  object  with 
its  great  porch,  huge  chimney,  and  long  sloping  roof.  It  was  placed  just 
above  the  river,  with  two  mighty  oaks,  each  twelve  feet  in  circumfer- 
ence, between  it  and  the  beautiful  birches,  maples,  oaks,  and  beeches, 
which  fringed  the  water  ;  and  between  that  and  the  house  was  the  well, 
with  its  long  sweep  fastened  to  a  limb  of  one  of  those  giant  trees. 
"  On  both  sides  of  it,  and  to  the  rear,  was  a  great  grass  field,  dotted 
over  with  some  very  fine  oaks  and  elms,  young  fellows,  -—not  much  over 
a  hundred  and  fifty  years  old,  while  at  the  back  and  all  around  was  the 
virgin  forest,  which  had  never  been  cut,  but  thinned  from  time  to  time. 
 - 478 - 
1892.]  MEMOIR    OF   AUGUSTUS    T.    PERKINS.  433 
The  place  was  a  small  one,  only  about  two  hundred  acres,  but  it  was 
certainly  beautiful.  There  were  upon  it,  in  my  young  days,  five  white- 
pine  trees  that  were  over  a  hundred  and  fifty  feet  in  height,  not  by 
guess,  but  by  measurements  made  by  Major  Barney,  of  Baltimore,  an 
officer  in  the  Engineer  Corps  of  the  United  States  Army. 
"  There  were  six  sugar  maples  on  it,  each  measuring  fifteen  feet  in 
girth,  —  splendid  old  fellows,  with  large  spaces  around  them,  cleared 
from  the  forest,  I  believe,  by  my  grandfather  Dumaresq,  a  great  lover 
of  fine  trees  ;  and  there  were  many  beautiful  oaks,  both  white  and  red, 
which  came  near  to  the  proportions  of  the  two  giants  in  front  of  the  old 
house.  To  the  north  about  a  hundred  yards  away  on  a  beautifully  tim- 
bered bluff,  high  above  the  water,  stood  my  father's  place,  large  and 
handsome,  with  a  delightful  view  of  the  river  from  the  piazza.  The 
rooms  were  many  and  ample,  and  all  the  appointments  extremely  com- 
fortable. The  hall,  morning-room,  and  dining-room  would  be  good 
anywhere.  This  house  was  burned  to  the  ground  in  two  hours,  in  1839  ; 
and  my  father's  shooting-box,  a  very  pretty  little  cottage  however,  took 
its  place.  .  .  . 
"  The  Colonel  always  took  his  horses,  or  some  of  them  to  the  island, 
with  a  light  carriage  ;  and  occasionally  we  drove  to  Gardiner  on  a  visit 
to  our  relatives,  the  Gardiners  of  Oaklands,  a  lovely  place,  and  a  really 
beautiful  house  ;  
but  this  involved  having  the  horses  and  pony  phaeton 
(we  call  them  Victorias  now)  ferried  twice  across  the  wide  Kennebec  ; 
so,  as  a  rule,  the  horses  were  principally  used  in  riding-lessons  for  us, 
the  youngsters.  Our  other  occupations  were  boating  on  the  river,  for 
we  had  all  sorts  of  craft,  from  the  '  
Dream'  of  40  tons  (on  which  excur- 
sions to  
the  mouth  of  the  Kennebec  were  made)  to  sail  and  rowing  boats, 
with  du£-outs,  and  canoes  of  all  kinds  and  sizes.   .  .  . 
"  I  have  hunted  all  over  the  northwest  country,  and  the  Lilly  Bay 
Mountains  about  Moose  Head  Lake,  and  also  the  Adirondack  Moun- 
tains forty  years  and  more  ago  when  it  was  a  real  wilderness,  and  have 
bagged  moose  and  deer  galore.  I  have  fished  with  a  fly  the  outlet  of  the 
Kennebec,  and  the  Rackett  and  Blue  Mountain  Lake,  where  big  trout 
were  only  too  plenty.  I  took  on  a  fly  in  two  weeks  forty  great  salmon 
from  the  Nipisquit,  and  it  was  all  fine  sport  ;  
but,  for  real  pleasure,  I 
think  I  have  had  as  much  while  duck-shooting  on  the  Kennebec  of  a 
fine  autumn,  as  I  ever  had  anywhere. 
"  Where  we  shot  was  on  the  Great  Flats,  between  the  Eastern  River 
and  the  Kennebec.  Near  them  lived  a  cousin  of  mine,  Mr.  Robert  Pat- 
terson, an  admirable  sportsman  and  a  charming  gentleman.  A  day  with 
him  in  September,  when  the  river  was  like  glass,  a  light  haze  softening 
all  objects,  the  high  banks  glowing  with  the  splendid  reds  and  yellows 
of  the  maples,  was  a  real  pleasure  ;  and  though,  unlike  the  Englishman, 
we  did  not  say,  '  
What  a  fine  day  ;  
let  us  go  at  once  and  kill  something,' 
55 
 - 479 - 
434  MASSACHUSETTS   HISTORICAL  SOCIETY.  [May, 
we  must  have  had  an  inkling  of  that  feeling,  for  we  kept  the  sharpest  of 
lookouts  for  the  long  lines  of  ducks  in  their  V-shaped  flocks  coming 
down  from  the  north.  We  never  killed  a  great  many  at  one  time.  The 
largest  bag  I  ever  made  to  my  own  gun  in  one  day  was  twenty-six  ;  
but 
the  shooting  was  quite  enough  for  any  gentleman  sportsman,  and  the 
surroundings  were  very  beautiful.   .   .  . 
"  The  Colonel  loved  in  Boston  to  exercise  a  generous  hospitality,  es- 
pecially in  
the  direction  of  numerous  small  dinner-parties  during  the 
winter  and  spring.  His  theory  was  ten  persons  at  a  round  table,  eight 
besides  my  mother  and  himself.  Our  own  men-servants  always  waited 
on  table,  with  one  other  hired  footman.  Amoy,  our  Chinese  butler,  who 
-lived  with  us  many  years,  was  always  gorgeous  in  the  costume  of  his 
country.  Flowers  and  tropical  fruits  were  very  rare  on  the  dinner- 
tables  of  fifty  years  ago  ;  
but  beautiful  silver,  and  India  and  even  Sevres 
china,  with  splendid  cut  glass,  was  by  no  means  uncommon. 
"  The  menu  was  much  as  it  is  now  :  oysters  on  the  shell  ;  a  delicate 
soup  ;  the  fish  in  winter,  smelts,  cusk,  or  chicken  halibut  ;  in  spring, 
salmon,  sea-trout,  and  shad.  For  meats,  saddle  of  venison,  or  mutton, 
in  winter  ;  
later  in  the  season,  spring  lamb.  The  last  course  was  ducks, 
partridges,  or  quail,  and  sometimes  all  of  them. 
"  The  friends  of  the  Colonel,  at  Baltimore,  often  sent  on  by  packet 
canvas -backs,  red-heads,  and  terrapin,  and  he  frequently  wrote  for 
them  ;  
lettuce  and  celery  were  by  no  means  plentiful,  and  were  hard  to 
get ;  
beet  and  potato  salads  taking  their  place.  Lobster,  cooked  in  va- 
rious ways  and  as  a  salad,  was  a  favorite  dish  ;  chess-cakes,  and  little 
mince  and  squash  tartlets,  very  small  and  dainty,  were  also  in  order,  with 
minute  apple  turn-overs.  Ices  were  served  last,  and  came  on  the  table 
ordinarily  in  the  forms  of  pyramids  ;  
the  various  shapes  now  common  were 
unknown.  The  fruits  in  winter  were  oranges,  Sicily  grapes  (though 
not  always  to  be  obtained),  raisins  and  figs,  and  many  kinds  of  nuts, — 
walnuts,  chestnuts,  pecans,  and  ground  nuts.  Rhine  wine  was  drunk 
with  oysters,  sherry  with  soup,  champagne  with  entrees  and  meats,  claret 
with  game,  and  port  and  Madeira  with  fruit  and  nuts  ;  coffee,  Cognac, 
and  cigars  as  a  finale.  Bananas,  fresh  grapes,  pears,  and  mandarins 
were  almost  unknown,  as  were  also  canned  tomatoes,  asparagus,  peas, 
beans,  and  mushrooms. 
"  In  those  happy  days  the  best  champagne  was  eighteen  dollars  a 
dozen  ;  
Chateau  Margot  and  Pontet,  nine  to  twelve  ;  Cabanas  cigars 
thirty  five  to  forty  dollars  a  thousand,  and  Manuel  Amores  twenty  to 
thirty." 
I  here  close  the  extracts  from  a  very  delightful  book,  which, 
though  written  solely  for  the  edification  of  a  family,  is  a  note- 
worthy contribution  to   the  history  of  New   England.     The 
 - 480 - 
1892.]  MEMOIR   OF   AUGUSTUS   T.   PERKINS.  435 
author,  Augustus  Thorndike  Perkins,  was  the  second  son,  and 
his  older  brother  continues  the  name  of  Thomas  H.  Perkins  in 
the  third  generation.  When  a  youth,  he  seemed  to  prefer  a 
business  life,  and  was  for  about  two  years  in  the  counting-room 
of  Francis  Skinner  &  Co.,  then  one  of  the  leading  agents  for 
the  cotton-mills.  At  the  age  of  nineteen,  however,  he  fitted 
for  college,  graduated  in  the  class  of  1851,  received  his  de- 
gree at  
the  law  school  at  Cambridge  in  1853,  and  his  degree 
of  A.M.  in  1860.  He  took  a  creditable  position  in  his  class, 
and  was  grand  marshal  of  the  Porcellian.  After  graduation 
he  spent  a  year  or  more  in  foreign  travel,  nearly  dying  in  Syria. 
He  married,  March  4, 1861,  Miss  Susan  H.  Timmins,  who,  with 
two  daughters,  survives  him. 
Through  his  family  connections,  his  wife  being  a  grand- 
daughter of  
Gardiner  Greene,  Mr»  Perkins  became  largely 
interested  in  various  manufacturing  companies,  serving  as 
director  in  several,  and  being  treasurer  of  the  Chicopee  Com- 
pany for* three  years.  He  was  also  for  several  years  presi- 
dent of  the  Douglas  Axe  Company.  In  all  these  positions  he 
made  a  decided  success,  although  his  preferences  were  in  other 
directions. 
In  1862  he  purchased  land  at  Cotuit,  Massachusetts,  and  built 
there  a  summer  home,  where  he  enjoyed  the  life  which  he  has 
so  vividly  described  in  the  reminiscences  of  his  youth. 
Mr.  Perkins  was  chosen  a  member  of  this  Society  in  February, 
1872.  He  had  already  been  a  member  of  the  New  England 
Historic  Genealogical  Society  for  eight  years,  where  he  had 
served  on  the  committee  on  Heraldry,  and  in  1865-1868  he 
was  one  of  the  four  gentlemen  who  published  "  The  Heraldic 
Journal."  He  was  an  active  member  of  our  Society,  serving 
upon  committees  and  on  the  Council  ;  and  his  memoir  of 
Thomas  C.  Amory  is  printed  in  our  Proceedings,  2d  series, 
vol.  v.  p.  341.  Of  his  other  contributions  it  is  unnecessary 
to  speak,  because  they  were  mainly  embodied  in  the  book 
to  be  noticed.  He  was  led  by  family  ties  to  give  consider- 
able attention  to  the  artistic  life  of  John  Singleton  Copley  ; 
and  the  result  was  published  in  1873,  in  a  book  entitled  "  A 
Sketch  of  the  Life  and  a  List  of  some  of  the  Works"  of  that 
artist,  pp.  144,  and  Supplement  of  18  pages.  Like  most  works 
of  original  research,  the  amount  of  material  seems  dispropor- 
tionate to  
the  time  and  labor  expended  ;  
but  this  small  volume 
 - 481 - 
436  MASSACHUSETTS  HISTOEICAL  SOCIETY.  [May, 
has  been  of  great  service  in  the  discovery  or  preservation  of 
valuable  historical  portraits.  In  1863  he  published  a  "  Sketch 
of  the  Family  of  Dumaresq,"  Albany,  pp.  23.  In  1878  he 
contributed  to  the  Essex  Institute  Collections  a  "  Notice  of 
the  Perkins  Arms  in  England,"  reprinted  as  a  pamphlet  of  13 
pages. 
Notwithstanding  physical  powers  far  beyond  the  average, 
Mr.  Perkins  was  an  invalid  in  his  later  years,  suffering  from 
heart-disease.  Towards  the  end  dropsy  was  developed,  and 
his  physician  warned  him  that  his  complaint  was  incurable. 
With  characteristic  pluck  and  good  humor  he  bore  up  bravely 
to  the  last,  and  was  out  daily.  On  Monday,  April  20,  he  was 
out  ;  and  that  afternoon  he  wrote  me  a  note  about  genealogy, 
in  a  handwriting  showing  no  signs  of  illness.  For  the  last 
few  days  he  had  expressed  himself  as  feeling  better  than  for 
some  time,  and  he  was  left  at  midnight,  very  comfortable  ;  
but 
in  the  morning  he  was  found  dead  in  his  bed,  without  a  sign 
of  a  struggle. 
Without  being  a  profound  antiquary,  Mr.  Perkins  had  a 
warm  interest  in  our  history,  and  a  willingness  to  give  time 
and  thought  to  such  investigations.  Taking  a  few  topics  into 
consideration,  he  mastered  them  thoroughly,  and  put  the  re- 
sults into  permanent  shape.  With  all  his  good  nature  and 
genial  friendship,  there  was  a  great  deal  of  firmness  and  per- 
tinacity in  
his  nature,  which  showed  in  his  literary  work  as  well 
as  in  matters  of  daily  life. 
Of  him,  as  a  man,  a  very  just  estimate  was  given  in  the 
Boston  "  Post  "  of  April  24,  1891,  by  Charles  A.  Prince.  I 
venture  to  transcribe  a  part,  as  being  one  of  those  few  eulogies 
which,  after  the  lapse  of  months,  commend  themselves  to  us 
as  true  and  moderate. 
"  
Tall  and  commanding  in  figure,  possessed  of  a  magnificent  physique, 
—  the  very  incarnation  of  manly  beauty  and  strength,  —  his  presence 
always  attracted  attention.  Joined  with  these  rare  personal  gifts,  he 
possessed  the  courtesy  of  a  Sydney  and  the  bearing  of  a  cavalier.  Al- 
though he  
filled  many  important  positions  in  life  with  dignity  and  ability, 
the  one  great  personal  trait  which  endeared  him  to  so  many  lay  in  the 
genial  character  of  his  nature,  and  the  peculiar  way  in  which  he  seemed 
to  fit  the  type  of  an  ideal  gentleman. 
"  '  
Who  misses,  or  who  wins  the  prize, 
Go  lose  or  conquer  as  you  can  ; 
But  if  you  fall  or  if  you  rise, 
Be  each,  pray  God,  a  gentleman.' 
 - 482 - 
1892.]  MEMOIR  OF   AUGUSTUS  T.   PERKINS.  437 
So  sang  the  greatest  novelist  of  our  literature  ;  and  so  lived  Augus- 
tus Thorndike  Perkins.  In  whatever  he  did  —  through  success  and 
through  defeat  —  he  bore  himself  as  the  gentleman.  How  often  has 
the  paterfamilias  said  to  his  son,  'Take  as  the  type  of  a  gentleman 
Augustus  Perkins  ' ?      The  writer  has  known  of  many  such  instances. 
"  He  was  thoroughly  American.  His  presence  seemed  to  bring  sun- 
shine into  every  gathering  he  graced.  Sympathetic,  he  was  ever  ready 
to  help  those  in  trouble  ;  
heroic,  he  cultivated  in  the  young  a  love  for 
manly  and  daring  conduct.  For  many  years  identified  with  the  Massa- 
chusetts Humane  Society,  which  has  done  so  much  to  encourage  and  re- 
ward our  daring  seamen  on  our  dangerous  coast,  much  of  the  esprit  de 
corps  which  distinguished  the  heroic  band  of  life-savers  whose  gallant 
conduct  is  revealed  with  every  storm  upon  our  shores  is  due  to  his  zeal 
and  eagerness  to  reward  their  efforts  and  equip  them  for  their  dangerous 
tasks.  Whenever  he  heard  of  exploits  coming  within  the  sphere  of  the 
society,  it  instantly  became  his  object  to  investigate  and  reward. 
"  His  end  was  characteristic  of  his  life.  His  passing  away  was  as 
calm  and  quiet  as  King  Arthur's.  His  spirit  went  in  his  sleep ;  and 
we  might  have  said  with  the  poet,  who  will  forgive  the  slight  change  : 
"  *  
We  thought  him  dying  when  he  slept, 
And  sleeping  when  he  died.'  " 
 - 483 - 
438  MASSACHUSETTS   HISTORICAL   SOCIETY.  [June, 
JUNE   MEETING,   1892. 
The  stated  meeting  was  held  on  Thursday,  the  9th  instant, 
at  three  o'clock,  p.  M.?  the  President,  Dr.  George  E.  Ellis, 
in  the  chair. 
After  the  reading  of  the  record  of  the  last  meeting,  and  of 
the  list  of  donors  to  the  Library  during  the  past  month,  the 
President  called  attention  to  the  publication  of  two  new 
volumes  by  our  senior  Vice-President,  Mr.  Francis  Parkman, 
and  said  •  — 
Among  the  numerous  and  miscellaneous  objects  of  historic 
interest  and  value  which  for  a  full  century  have  been  gather- 
ing within  our  halls,  as  in  their  fitting  depository,  I  think  you 
will  accord  with  me  when  I  say  that  that  rich  and  solid  oaken 
cabinet  with  its  contents,  the  "  Parkman  Papers,"  make  the 
chief  gem  and  treasure  of  our  library.  Both  the  cabinet 
and  the  papers  are  the  munificent  gift  to  us  of  our  distin- 
guished Vice-President,  and  they  will  be  an  enduring  monu- 
ment to  
his  fame.  Those  stately  folios,  with  others  of  like 
character  and  contents  which  may  be  added  to  them,  contain 
much  of  the  materials  on  which  the  zeal,  the  patience,  the  re- 
search, and  the  concentrated  literary  aims  and  genius  of  their 
collector  and  editor  have  been  engaged  for  nearly  half  a  cen- 
tury. He  has  won  the  distinction  of  being  the  foremost  histo- 
rian of  
our  country  ;  and  I  know  of  no  historical  writer  in  any 
other  country  whose  pages  surpass  those  of  Mr.  Parkman  in 
fidelity  to  truth  of  narration,  in  interest,  brilliancy,  and  vigor 
of  subject,  style,  and  spirit. 
Our  thoughts  and  interest  are  now  turned  with  renewed 
appreciation  upon  that  cabinet  and  its  contents,  because  the 
great  purpose  for  which  these  papers  and  much  other  material 
were  gathered,  and  after  their  being  put  to  the  best  use,  has 
now  been  crowned  by  the  publication  of  the  last  of  a  series  of 
twelve  noble  volumes  completing  a  life-labor  of  the  author. 
In  those  volumes  the  most  rigid  exactions  of  veritable  history 
and  the  most  fascinating  charms  of  romance  unite  their  attrac- 
 - 484 - 
1S92.]  WORKS    OF   FRANCIS    PAEKMAN.  439 
tions.  Most  grateful  is  it  for  us  in  our  fellowship  here  to 
recognize  the  grandly  finished  work  of  our  honored  associate, 
and  to  express  to  him  our  full  appreciation  of  his  success,  and 
our  felicitations  that  life  and  mental  vigor  have  supplied  his 
forces. 
Mr.  Parkman  has  been  signally  favored  alike  in  the  grandeur 
of  his  chosen  subject,  and  in  the  opportunity  of  life  to  pursue 
and  to  finish  it.  We  all  know  the  physical  impediments  and 
disabilities  under  which  his  Spartan  heroism  has  persevered  in 
steady  toil.  But  of  these  fetterings  and  constraints  we  may  be 
silent,  because  he  says  so  little  about  them  himself,  while  there 
is  not  a  trace  of  them  to  be  found  in  the  brilliant  and  vigorous 
glow  and  power  of  his  pages.  I  recall  but  one  of  the  distin- 
guished writers  of  history  whose  period  for  work,  from  his  first 
volume  to  his  last,  was  as  full  as  that  of  Mr.  Parkman,  —  and 
that  is  Mr.  Bancroft.  Mackintosh  and  Fox,  Macaulay  and 
Green  and  Freeman,  not  to  mention  lesser  names,  left  either 
unfinished  or  posthumously  published  works.  Mr.  Parkman's 
subject  was  chosen  with  a  loyal  ardor  in  his  college  days  ;  and 
it  was  so  grand  a  one  as  to  carry  inspiration  with  it  for  one 
who  had  genius  and  the  power  to  deal  ably  with  it. 
It  was  to  be  the  history  of  the  stern  and  protracted  struggle 
between  France  and  England  for  mastery  over  this  northern 
part  of  the  New  World.  The  stake  involved  the  sway  and 
fortune  of  an  empire  and  a  continent.  Kings  and  statesmen, 
priests  and  soldiers,  with  armies  and  navies  at  command,  and 
every  type  of  humanity,  courtier  and  savage,  civilized  and 
barbarous,  farmer  and  trader,  and  white  and  red  men  hardly 
distinguishable  in  character  and  habit  of  life,  were  to  fill  the 
stage  in  a  marvellous  panorama  of  dramas.  The  Old  World 
and  the  New  were  contrasted  to  be  assimilated.  The  scenes 
of  the  exciting  and  tragic  story  were  interchanging  between 
the  intrigues,  jealousies,  and  rivalries  of  courts,  to  the  depths 
of  solemn  primeval  wildernesses,  lonely,  and  impenetrable  but 
by  savage  men  and  beasts.  The  scale  of  all  things  was  grand, 
with  wreathings  of  solemn  mystery.  It  was  among  inland 
seas,  embossed  lakes,  cataracts,  and  mighty  rivers,  opening  con- 
tinuous water-ways  with  occasional  carrying- places,  through 
the  breadth  and  length  of  the  continent.  The  primeval  forests 
showed  their  successive  growths,  with  only  Nature  to  train 
them  from  birth  to  death  ;    
the  once  patriarchal   giants   lay 
 - 485 - 
440  MASSACHUSETTS   HISTORICAL   SOCIETY.  [June, 
prostrate  in  their  spongy  mould,  and  in  all  stages  of  life  vigor 
and  decay  were  represented  in  their  generations  as  by  the 
sleeping  tenants  of  an  old  churchyard.  The  archives  of 
France,  England,  and  Canada,  —  the  depositories  of  official  docu- 
ments, commissions  and  instructions,  reports  of  civil  and  mili- 
tary functionaries,  with  their  bickerings  and  quarrels,  —  in  all 
of  which  was  to  be  traced  the  tangled  web  of  state-craft,  pol- 
icy, intrigue,  and  jealousy,  were  the  prime  materials  for  the 
historian.  Of  lesser  dignity,  but  often  more  richly  and  curi- 
ously communicative,  were  the  masses  of  materials  searched 
out  by  the  marvellous  quest  and  sagacious  skill  of  the  histo- 
rian to  
supplement,  fill  in,  and  attest  the  matter  of  his  pages. 
The  private  papers  of  every  grade-  and  quality  of  the  actors, 
journals,  diaries,  letters,  itineraries,  and  rude  maps,  with 
cautiously  weighed  traditions,  enrich  the  text  and  notes. 
These  paper  materials,  however,  furnish  only  the  warp,  the 
longitudinal  threads  of  Mr.  Parkman's  volumes.  The  woof, 
the  cross  threading  of  the  narration,  is  wholly  from  the  per- 
sonality of  
the  writer,  to  be  filled  in  by  quite  another  process 
than  that  of  the  study  of  documents.  The  intervals  of  en- 
forced rest  used  by  Mr.  Parkman  for  mental  discipline,  for 
thought  and  discursive  readings,  and  his  passion  for  open-air 
life  and  wide  roamings,  are  found  to  yield  their  richest  results 
for  his  pen  ;  the  most  zealous  use  of  books  and  manuscript 
needed,  that  the  narrative  to  be  wrought  from  them  should 
have  in  it  the  charm  and  aroma  of  the  scenes,  the  actors  and 
the  incidents,  the  features  and  the  groupings  of  primitive 
Nature  and  savage  life.  It  is  here  that  we  recognize  the  rela- 
tion between  the  qualities  and  aptitudes  of  the  historian  and 
the  exactions  of  his  theme.  Mr.  Parkman's  readers  own  to  the 
fascination  which  he  throws  over  them  as  a  spell  in  his  pictur- 
ings  and  interpretations  of  Nature,  and  of  the  wild  roamers 
through  its  shades  and  depths.  It  will  be  for  a  generation  of 
readers  soon  to  follow  our  own  to  appreciate  to  the  full  the 
permanence  which  he  has  stamped  on  his  pages,  of  features, 
scenes,  and  objects,  and  of  aboriginal  forms  and  ways  of  life 
which  have  all  so  strangely  vanished,  thrown  into  remoteness, 
displaced  as  irrevocable  and  inconceivable,  in  the  present  as- 
pect of  
vast  reaches  of  this  continent.  It  is  to  Mr.  Parkman's 
wide  and  wild  wanderings,  his  tramps  on  the  trail,  his  pad- 
dlings  in  the  canoe,  his  life  passed  in  Indian  lodges,  —  it  is  to 
 - 486 - 
1892.]  GENESIS    OF   THE   MASSACHUSETTS   TOWN.  441 
his  proclivity  and  aptitude  for  observation  and  interpretation, 
his  eye  and  mind  for  Nature,  his  affinity  and  sympathy,  well- 
nigh  suggestive  of  heredity  of  relation  to  the  aborigines,  —  that 
we  are  indebted  for  the  fidelity,  the  vividness,  and  the  in- 
tensely absorbing  spirit  of  his  written  work.  His  apt  and 
felicitous  choice  of  epithets,  his  turn  of  a  phrase,  his  colorings 
and  tintings  in  his  verbal  paintings,  make  his  type  and  paper 
glow  with  life.  A  conscientious  principle  and  purpose  assure 
his  candor  and  impartiality. 
The  mystery  and  sadness  of  an  extended  tragedy  invest  his 
subject,  which  he  interprets  to  us  as  a  struggle  between  royal 
absolutism  and  popular  freedom  on  this  open  continent.  The 
tragic  element  is  in  the  defiance  of  poetic  justice,  that  France, 
with  its  priority  in  time,  and  vigor  of  enterprise  in  exploration 
and  occupancy,  seeming  to  have  secured  fortified  titles  to  per- 
manence of  
inheritance  and  rule  here,  has  not  a  foothold  on 
this  continent.  She  floats  her  flag  only  on  a  small  group  of 
fishing  islands. 
Mr.  Charles  Francis  Adams,  having  been  called  on,  read 
a  supplemental  paper  on  "  The  Genesis  of  the  Massachusetts 
Town,"  as  follows  :  — 
The  Society  will  remember  that  at  the  meeting  in  January 
last  a  paper,  at  the  time  referred  to  as  "  lengthy  and  some- 
what elaborate,"  on  the  origin  of  the  Massachusetts  towns  and 
the  development  of  government  by  town-meeting  was  sub- 
mitted by  
me  ;  also  that  the  whole  subject,  as  well  as  the 
conclusions  reached  in  the  paper  referred  to,  was  discussed 
by  Messrs.  Goodell,  Chamberlain,  and  Channing.  The  sym- 
posium, if  
so  I  may  be  permitted  to  call  it,  then  held,  furnished 
matter  sufficient  to  fill  no  less  than  ninety-one  pages  in  the 
Society's  Proceedings,1  and  it  might  reasonably  be  supposed 
left  the  subject  exhausted.  I  recur  to  it  again,  not  at  all  for 
the  purpose  of  enjoying  the  last  word  in  a  controversy,  but 
because  only  recently  have  I  seen  the  contributions  of  Messrs. 
Chamberlain  and  Channing  in  their  matured  and  printed  form, 
and  the  matter  discussed  is  to  my  mind,  and  for  reasons  I 
propose  presently  to  set  forth,  of  such  peculiar  historical  signi- 
ficance that  I  am  solicitous  lest  my  position  in  regard  to  it 
1  Supra,  pp.  172-263. 
56 
 - 487 - 
442  MASSACHUSETTS   HISTORICAL  SOCIETY.  [June, 
should  be  in  any  way  open  to  misapprehension.  I  will  further 
add  that  certain  expressions  in  the  printed  remarks  of  both 
Judge  Chamberlain  and  Professor  Channing  lead  me  to  appre- 
hend that  I  failed  to  make  myself  clear  at  least  to  them  ;  and 
if  I  failed  to  do  so  to  them,  still  more  must  I  have  failed  with 
others. 
Stated  generally,  my  endeavor  in  the  paper  referred  to  was 
to  show  that  the  whole  political  system  of  Massachusetts,  State 
and  town,  was  what  we  now  call  "  a  new  departure."  Up  to 
the  time  the  charter  of  1629  was  granted,  the  origin  of  political 
institutions  had  to  be  sought  in  the  ecclesiastical  and  feudal 
systems  ;  
but  those  of  Massachusetts,  on  the  contrary,  must  be 
looked  for  in  the  growing  commercial  activity,  and  the  organiza- 
tions adapted  thereto,  then  coming  into  general  use.  In  other 
words,  unconsciously  and  by  mere  chance,  in  the  case  of  Massa- 
chusetts the  
future  was  divined,  —  the  old  was  cast  loose  from, 
and  the  destiny  of  the  community  called  into  being  was  thrown 
in  with  the  new.  Nor  is  this  a  mere  sounding  phrase  ;  
for,  as 
the  years  went  on,  the  distinction  meant  a  great  deal,  —  it 
meant  in  the  slow  process  of  human  evolution  the  difference 
between  a  pure  democracy,  founded  on  freedom  of  thought 
and  the  equality  of  man  before  the  law,  and  a  government 
recognizing  distinctions  of  caste  or  priestly  domination. 
Accordingly,  in  the  paper  submitted  by  me  at  the  January 
meeting,  my  contention,  based  on  a  careful  analysis  of  original 
records,  was  that  in  Massachusetts  the  town  system  had  been 
the  natural  outgrowth  and  sequence  of  the  colonial  system,  — 
that  it  was  based  on  the  corporate  principle,  and  that  "in  the 
original  establishment  of  the  town  governments  and  their  pro- 
gressive development  to  meet  the  increasing  requirements  of  a 
growing  community  the  analogy  of  the  charter  was  closely 
followed.  The  body  of  freemen  or  inhabitants  constituted  the 
General  Court  of  the  town,  subseqently  called  the  general 
town-meeting  ;  and  the  townsmen,  later  on  the  selectmen, 
were  the  board  of  assistants,  or,  as  they  would  now  be  called, 
directors."  Upon  this  point,  which  I  regard  as  of  much  his- 
torical significance,  Judge  Chamberlain  says  :  — 
"  I  do  not  perceive  the  analogy  which  Mr.  Adams  perceives  between 
the  General  Court  and  Court  of  Assistants  on  the  one  hand,  and  the 
'  
inhabitants  '  
and  '  
selectmen,'  on  the  other,  in  respect  to  the  subjects, 
 - 488 - 
1892.]  GENESIS   OF   THE   MASSACHUSETTS   TOWN.  443 
or  to  the  modes  of  their  action  severally,  —  certainly  it  was  not  insti- 
tutional j  
nor  do  I  think  that  '  
freemen  or  inhabitants'  are  interchange- 
able terms  equally  descriptive  of  the  same  class  of  people  ;  nor  that 
'  
the  inhabitants  of  the  towns  were  those  owning  lands,  —  the  free- 
holders, —  who  were  all  members  of  the  congregation  '   ;  nor  that  *  
in- 
habitants '  
of  towns  '  
were  in  the  nature  of  stockholders  in  a  modern 
corporation.'  To  me  these  and  some  similar  expressions  convey  ideas 
foreign  to  the  homely  simplicity  of  those  early  people  and  the  nature  of 
their  affairs."  l 
It  is  not  necessary  for  the  purpose  of  establishing  the  his- 
torical fact  for  which  I  contend  to  go  into  an  abstruse  discus- 
sion of  
institutions.  I  do  not  suppose  that  the  earliest  English 
immigrants  bestowed  much  if  any  thought  on  abstract  ques- 
tions, at  
least  those  not  theological  in  character.  They  did 
not  sit  down  and  argue  out  principles  of  government,  formally 
incorporating  the  results  of  their  discussions  into  laws  and 
constitutions.  If  I  take  in  the  facts  correctly,  they  simply 
followed,  in  the  development  of  their  institutions,  what  may 
most  aptly  be  called  the  line  of  least  political  resistance.  The 
form  of  colonial  government  prescribed  in  their  charter  was 
before  them  and  in  common  use  by  them  ;  and  it  was  at  once 
simple,  familiar,  and  effective.  Founded  on  the  corporate  and 
commercial  basis,  its  organization  consisted  of  a  General  Court 
of  Proprietors,  which  at  its  stated  meetings  transacted  legis- 
lative business  on  matters  of  common  concernment,  and  elected 
an  executive  committee  of  so-called  assistants,  to  which  com- 
mittee the  details  of  government  were  intrusted.  So  far  there 
is  no  room  for  difference  of  opinion.  The  record  is  clear,  and 
speaks  for  itself.  Then  followed  the  process  of  political  dif- 
ferentiation. The  
towns  one  by  one  came  into  existence  ;  and 
I  submit  that  it  is  of  no  consequence  whatever  whether  the  re- 
sult was  intentional  or  otherwise,  —  whether  a  model  was  fol- 
lowed, or  whether  it  was  a  case  of  accidental  resemblance  or 
analogous  development,  —  the  fact  none  the  less  remains  and 
is  indisputably  stamped  on  the  record,  that  the  town  system 
resembled  in  every  essential  respect  the  colonial  system,  — 
resembled  it  as  a  child  resembles  a  parent.  Founded  on  the 
corporate  principle,  —  with  an  element  of  common  as  well  as 
individual  ownership,  —  the  Plantation,  as  the  town  was 
called,  was  governed  in  all  matters  of  local  and  common  con- 
1  Supra,  pp.  240,  241. 
 - 489 - 
444  MASSACHUSETTS   HISTORICAL   SOCIETY.  [June, 
cernment  by  a  court  of  Proprietors,  which  later  developed  into 
the  town-meeting,  and  this  court  almost  from  the  first  elected 
an  executive  committee  to  which  all  details  of  government 
were  intrusted. 
If  under  these  circumstances  a  model  was  not  followed, 
the  results,  I  submit,  were  exactly  what  they  would  have  been 
if  the  charter  organization  as  a  model  had  been  followed. 
Passing  over  as  immaterial  the  other  points  of  difference 
between  us  in  the  extract  I  have  just  quoted,  I  am  not  sure  I 
understand  what  Judge  Chamberlain  has  in  mind  when  he 
says  :  — 
"  I  do  not  perceive  the  analogy  which  Mr.  Adams  perceives  between 
the  General  Court  and  Court  of  Assistants  on  the  one  hand,  and  the 
'  
inhabitants  '  
and  '  
selectmen,'  on  the  other,  in  respect  to  the  subjects, 
or  to  the  modes  of  their  action  severally,  —  certainly  it  was  not 
institutional." 
"  Institutional,"  as  I  understand  the  word,  merely  means 
that  which  is  elementary  in  institutions.  The  question  is  im- 
material so  
far  as  the  essential  point  in  my  contention  is 
concerned  ;  
but  none  the  less,  if  my  definition  is  correct,  and 
I  understand  what  Judge  Chamberlain  means  by  "  institu- 
tional," I  
find  myself  obliged  to  take  issue  with  him  ;  even 
though  experience  has  taught  me  that  so  doing  is,  on  matters 
connected  with  early  Massachusetts  history  and  its  underly- 
ing principles,  not  unattended  by  the  risk  of  finding  myself  in 
the  wrong.  As  I  read  the  early  town  records,  —  especially 
those  of  Boston,  Dorchester,  and  Dedham,  —  the  distinguish- 
ing features  of  their  systems  were  the  corporate  existence 
of  plantations,  the  local  business  of  which  was  managed  by 
executive  boards  chosen  by  bodies  of  proprietors  in  General 
Court  assembled,  —  the  whole  bearing  the  closest  possible 
resemblance  to  the  system  prescribed  in  the  King  Charles 
charter,  and  then  in  regular  operation  before  the  eyes  of  the 
local  plantation  proprietors,  —  and  these  common  features  of 
both  systems  seem  to  me  nothing  if  not  institutional  or  ele- 
mentary. It  
was  moreover  in  the  towns,  and  especially  in 
Boston,  —  with  its  general  courts  of  inhabitants,  or  freemen, 
choosing  "  the  10  to  manage  the  affaires  of  the  towne,"  —  it 
was  here,  and  in  this  form  of  government,  that  the  institu- 
tional methods  prescribed  for  the  colony  in  the  charter  were 
 - 490 - 
1892.]  GENESIS   OF   THE  MASSACHUSETTS   TOWN.  445 
followed  and  preserved,  while  in  the  government  of  the 
colony  itself  the  delegate  system  had  to  be  improvised,  and  so 
to  speak  injected  into  it,  to  meet  the  exigencies  of  growth  and 
diffusion.  If  therefore  the  earliest  system  of  government  in 
use  in  the  original  plantations,  or  towns,  as  set  forth  in  the 
records  from  which  I  quoted  last  January,  was  not  "  institu- 
tional "  
under  the  charter,  then  it  must  be  conceded  the 
unknown  and  undiscoverable  paternity  of  that  system  sets 
at  defiance  every  generally  accepted  principle  of  hereditary 
resemblance. 
I  pass  now  to  Professor  Channing's  caveat  against  what  he 
refers  to  as  "  Mr.  Adams's  Massachusetts  Charter  theory."  x 
Professor  Channing  says  :  — 
"  One  other  point  occurs  to  me.  Mr.  Adams  maintains  that  the 
charter  was  the  model  on  which  the  town  system  was  based.  I  think 
there  are  two  objections  to  that:  first,  the  towns  were  not  based  on 
any  model  ;  they  grew  by  the  exercise  of  English  common-sense  and 
political  experience,  combined  with  the  circumstances  of  the  place. 
Secondly,  and  much  more  important,  I  think,  the  freemen  in  general 
were  by  no  means  so  in  love  with  the  general  government  of  the 
Company  at  that  time  as  to  wish  to  model  their  town  government  upon 
it.  To  make  this  clear,  let  us  see  how  the  charter  was  being  inter- 
preted by  
those  in  power  during  these  years.  In  1631  it  was  voted 
that  the  Assistants  only  should  be  elected  by  the  freemen,  the  Governor 
and  Deputy-Governor  being  elected  by  the  Assistants  out  of  their  own 
number.  In  1631  also  the  Assistants  levied  a  tax,  which  gave  rise  to 
a  protest  from  the  people  of  Watertown  ;  and  the  protesters  came  to 
Boston  on  Feb.  17,  1631-32,  when  Winthrop  expounded  the  nature  of 
the  Assistants'  power."  2 
Again  I  find  myself  compelled  to  take  issue  with  Professor 
Channing,  a  thing  I  am  always  most  reluctant  to  do.  So  far 
from  drawing  the  same  conclusions  he  has  drawn  from  the 
incident  he  refers  to  in  the  above  extract  from  his  paper,  I 
draw  from  it  conclusions  of  a  wholly  opposite  character.  He 
says  the  early  settlers  were  not  "so  in  love  "  with  the  general 
government  of  the  Company  at  that  time  as  to  wish  to  model 
their  town  government  upon  it.  On  the  contrary,  it  is  the 
one  recognized  and  accepted  fact  of  early  Massachusetts  his- 
tory, that  the  settlers  were  "  so  in  love  "  with  their  charter 
1  Supra,  p.  244.  2  Supra,  p.  262. 
 - 491 - 
446  MASSACHUSETTS    HISTORICAL    SOCIETY.  [June, 
that  they  considered  it  as  the  very  palladium  of  their  rights 
and  liberties,  and  stood  ready  to  resist  by  every  means  in  their 
power  any  attempt  to  deprive  them  of  it.  In  the  very  case 
cited  by  Mr.  Charming  the  freemen  of  Watertown  demanded 
a  view  of  the  charter,  not  because  they  "  were  by  no  means  in 
love  "  with  it,  or  the  general  form  of  government  prescribed 
in  it,  but  because  that  form  of  government  was  being  departed 
from  without  their  consent.  They  relied  upon  its  provisions 
as  their  protection  against  an  attempted  usurpation  on  the 
part  of  the  magistrates.  Their  rights  they  held  were  set  forth 
in  the  charter,  and  they  insisted  n  having  them,  —  they 
appealed  to  the  fundamental  law.  The  case  cited  by  Pro- 
fessor Channing  in  reality,  therefore,  is  against  his  caveat  and 
in  favor  of  my  contention. 
But  Professor  Channing  also  says  that  "the  towns  were  not 
based  on  any  model."  Here,  as  in  the  case  of  Judge  Cham- 
berlain's criticism  alread}^  referred  to,  it  is  not  necessary  for 
the  establishing  of  my  contention  to  go  so  far  as  to  talk  of 
"models,"  —  that  word  implies  too  much.  Men  who  indis- 
posing of  
the  practical  affairs  of  life  as  they  arise  follow  the 
nomenclature  and  methods  to  which  they  are  accustomed, 
cannot  properly  be  said  to  follow  "a  model";  nor  did  the 
early  New  England  immigrants  when  they  organized  their 
plantations  and  courts  of  proprietors  in  the  strict  verbal  sense 
of  the  word  "  model  "  adopt  the  charter  institutions.  They 
did  not  sit  down  as  the  modern  constitution-maker  does  with 
documents,  treatises,  and  precedents  before  them,  and  turn  out 
as  from  a  machine  some  patent  and  approved  governmental 
system.  They  did  nothing  in  any  way  resembling  this  ;  on 
the  contrary,  simple,  busy  men,  engaged  in  a  matter-of-fact 
way  in  a  very  stern  struggle  for  subsistence  and  shelter,  they 
in  the  management  of  their  local  affairs  merely  in  a  natural 
way  followed  what  I  have  described  as  the  line  of  least  politi- 
cal resistance  along  the  paths  most  familiar  to  them.  Never- 
theless, in  
so  doing,  I  submit  as  a  matter  of  fact,  —  though 
unnecessary  to  my  argument,  —  they  did  practically  work  on 
the  u  model  "  of  the  Charter  then  staring  them  in  the  face  ; 
and  the  fact  that  they  did  work  on  that  model  is,  moreover, 
clearly  shown  in  the  records  from  which  I  so  fully  quoted  in 
my  January  paper.  Indeed,  they  followed  the  model  so 
closely  that  they  preserved  not  only  its  spirit  and  original  form, 
 - 492 - 
1892.]  GENESIS   OF   THE  MASSACHUSETTS   TOWN.  447 
but  at  first  even  its  nomenclature  of  "  courts,"  "  plantations," 
"planters,"  and  "proprietors."  The  General  Court  in  the 
case  of  the  towns  was,  and  remained,  what  the  charter  in- 
tended it  
should  be,  a  meeting  of  the  whole  body  of  proprietors  ; 
in  the  case  of  the  colony  it  soon  ceased  to  be  a  meeting  of  the 
whole  body  of  proprietors,  or  freemen,  and  became,  and  still 
is,  a  delegate  body.  Thus,  if  I  correctly  read  the  ancient 
records,  it  was  in  the  towns,  and  not  in  the  colony  as  a  whole, 
that  the  institutional  system  provided  in  the  charter  was 
preserved  and  perpetuated. 
Before  dismissing  this  subject,  as  I  suppose  forever  so  far 
as  I  personally  am  concerned,  I  have  a  single  word  more  to 
say.  It  may  seem  to  many  that  I  have  occupied  over  it  more 
of  the  time  of  the  Society  than  its  importance  deserves,  and 
by  so  doing  swelled  unnecessarily  the  fast-growing  bulk  of  our 
printed  Proceedings.  This  is  very  possible  ;  
though,  of  course, 
I  do  not  think  so  :  but  perhaps  I  have  an  inordinate  opinion 
of  the  value  and  importance  of  the  story  of  Massachusetts 
from  the  point  of  view  of  general  history.  On  this  subject  I 
ten  years  ago  expressed  myself  as  follows  in  the  preface  to  a 
privately  printed  but  never  published  volume  ;  and  neither  the 
time  which  has  since  elapsed  nor  a  closer  and  more  continuous 
study  of  the  subject  has  led  to  anjr  modification  of  my  views  : 
*  I  do  not  think  the  history  of  any  community  during  an  equal 
period  is  hereafter  destined  to  outrank  in  importance  the  history  of 
Massachusetts  from  the  year  1620  to  1865.  .  .  . 
"  This  is  a  broad  statement,  and  I  am  well  aware  that  it  will  sound 
like  one  of  those  exaggerated  expressions  of  State  pride  naturally  to 
be  expected  from  members  of  a  small  community.  Yet  there  are  not 
many  communities  to  which  it  has  been  given  to  impart  to  the  race  a 
ruling  idea  or  truth  ;  and  in  those  rare  cases  where  it  has  been  so  given, 
the  histories  of  Judea  and  of  Attica  should  suffice  to  prove  that  bigness 
is  not  essential  to  the  mission.  By  a  ruling  idea  or  truth,  I  mean  some 
fundamental  principle  of  political  or  social  conduct  which  —  slowly 
formulated,  and  yet  more  slowly  forcing  its  way  into  general  accept- 
ance —  ultimately  changes  the  whole  complexion  of  history.  I  confi- 
dently submit  that  Massachusetts  is  one  of  the  half-dozen  communities 
which  have  had  such  a  message  to  deliver  to  mankind,  and  have 
delivered  it. 
"The  Hebrews  developed  the  idea  of  the  one  God  and  his  com- 
mandments, —  an  idea  and  a  code  which  have  since  become  the  basis 
of  all  modern  law  and  civilization.     The  Athenians  next  came  forward, 
 - 493 - 
448  MASSACHUSETTS  HISTORICAL  SOCIETY.  [June, 
embodying  the  principle  of  popular  government  through  discussion. 
It  is  more  than  two  thousand  years  since  they  delivered  their  message, 
and  it  is  only  now  struggling  into  general  acceptance.  Rome  developed 
that  idea  of  imperial  organization  which  is  the  key-note  of  modern  as 
opposed  to  ancient  history.  England  originated  parliamentary  or 
representative  government,  and  brought  it  into  practical  use.  It  was 
reserved  for  Massachusetts  to  assert  the  absolute  equality  of  men  before 
the  law. 
"  That  idea  was  the  offspring  of  the  English  Commonwealth.  Its 
godfathers  were  Hampden  and  Milton  and  Cromwell.  It  found  in- 
articulate expression  in  the  death  of  King  Charles.  No  portion  of  the 
world  was,  however,  then  ready  to  accept  so  startling  a  paradox.  All 
existing  habits,  traditions,  institutions,  —  social,  political,  religious,  — 
recoiled  from  it.  It  seemed  like  an  absurdity  on  its  face,  to  assert  that 
the  peasant  who  turned  the  clod  was,  before  the  law,  or  anywhere  else, 
the  equal  of  the  lord  at  whose  castle's  gate  he  lived,  or  of  the  priest  who 
represented  God.  Such  an  idea  no  more  found  acceptance  with  the 
peasant  than  it  did  with  the  lord  or  the  priest.  Indeed,  the  first,  no 
long  time  before,  had  been  a  serf,  —  an  adjunct  to  the  soil  and  insepar- 
able from  it.  Though  a  protest  against  human  inequality,  the  English 
Commonwealth  was,  accordingly,  only  a  passing  protest.  Law,  usage, 
tradition,  were  forces  too  powerful  to  be  at  once  overcome,  and  the 
hereditary,  privileged-class  principle  reasserted  itself.  But  meanwhile 
the  germinal  idea  of  the  Commonwealth  had  been  transferred  across  the 
Atlantic.  It  was  there  planted  in  Massachusetts,  where  it  slowly  de- 
veloped under  the  most  favoring  of  possible  conditions.  At  first  it  was 
hardly  more  received  here  than  it  had  been  in  England.  The  magis- 
trates talked  of  the  '  
common  people  '  ;  and  one  code  of  criminal  law 
applied  to  them,  while  another  applied  to  the  gentry.  But  there  was 
no  king  and  no  noble  in  the  land,  and  in  the  church  and  the  town- 
meeting  all  stood  upon  a  footing  of  absolute  equality.  Slavery  also 
existed  for  a  time  ;  but  it  was  only  in  its  least  objectionable  form. 
No  large  gangs  of  bondsmen  ever  worked  under  overseers.  The  sys- 
tem never  was  organized,  and  it  died  a  natural  death.  Thus,  when  the 
Massachusetts  Constitution  of  1780  went  into  effect,  all  the  opposing 
forces  had  disappeared,  and  the  principle  of  human  equality  before  the 
law,  theoretically  enunciated  in  the  Declaration,  was  a  thing  in  prac- 
tice in  
New  England.  The  country,  as  a  whole,  accepted  it  only 
subject  to  limitations.  It  applied  but  to  white  men.  Then  in  due 
course  of  time  followed  the  long  slavery  struggle,  in  which  Massachu- 
setts was  arrayed  against  Virginia,  the  Puritan  idea  against  the  idea  of 
caste.     Not  until  1865  was  the  question  definitely  settled. 
"  That  this  principle,  so  recently  established  as  the  rule  of  this  con- 
tinent, is  
destined  to  become   the  rule  in  all  civilized  countries,  now 
 - 494 - 
1892.]  REMARKS  BY  MR.   McCLEARY.  449 
admits  of  no  question.  It  is  a  principle  as  fundamental  as  that  of  the 
one  God,  or  as  government  through  discussion,  or  as  imperial  organi- 
zation, or  as  representative  rule.  As  a  theory  reduced  to  practice, 
and  made  to  dominate  a  continent,  it  is  the  contribution  of  Massachu- 
setts. The  question  then  may  not  unfairly  be  put :  Has  any  other 
community  made  a  greater  contribution?  " 
With  this  estimate  of  what  I  may  almost  term  the  supreme 
historical  importance  of  the  Massachusetts  record,  the  single 
point  in  it  dwelt  upon  at  such  length  in  our  January  sym- 
posium and  again  now  strikes  me  as  essential  to  the  whole. 
That  which  it  has  been  sought  to  establish  is  the  vital  initial 
fact,  giving  shape  to  all  that  thereafter  ensued,  —  the  fact  so 
often  stated  by  me,  —  that  Massachusetts  was  founded  not  on 
feudal  or  ecclesiastical  models,  but  as  a  corporate  commercial 
enterprise,  with  all  that  the  phrase  to-day  implies;  and,  fur- 
ther, that  this  corporate,  democratic,  commercial  organization 
was  not  confined  to  the  colonial  government  organized  under 
the  charter,  but,  propagated  through  the  charter,  pervaded 
the  town  system,  and  as  a  consequence,  every  remotest  portion 
of  the  New  England  body  politic.  Thus  King  Charles's 
charter  was  seminal,  and  through  and  by  it  —  no  one  de- 
signing, no  one  anticipating  —  a  people,  following  the  lines 
of  least  political  resistance  to  a  conclusion  the  logical  outcome 
of  elementary  principles,  evolved  in  process  of  time  a  result  of 
momentous  human  importance.  In  other  words,  once  more  to 
repeat  myself,  in  the  organization  of  the  political  system  of 
Massachusetts  under  the  corporate,  commercial,  commonplace, 
democratic  forms  prescribed  in  King  Charles's  charter  of  1629, 
the  future  was  unconsciously  divined,  —  it  was  nineteenth- 
century  daylight  first  faintly  dawning  in  the  earlier  years  of 
the  seventeenth  century. 
Mr.  Samuel  F.  McCleary  presented  to  the  Society  a  Com- 
mission issued  to  "Edward  Proctor  of  Boston  as  Captain  in 
the  regiment  of  militia  whereof  John  Erving  is  Colonel."  1  The 
commission  is  dated  Feb.  26,  1772,  and  is  signed  by  Thomas 
Hutchinson,  the  last  of  the  Royal  Civil  Governors.  Edward 
Proctor  was  a  man  of  considerable  note  in  his  day.  He  re- 
sided and  kept  a  store  at  the  corner  of  Fish  Street  and  Proc- 
1  John  Erving  was  a  Loyalist.  He  graduated  at  Harvard  College  in  1747.  In 
1776  he  went  to  England,  and  died  at  Bath  in  1816,  aged  89. 
57 
 - 495 - 
450  MASSACHUSETTS   HISTORICAL   SOCIETY.  [June, 
tor's  Lane,  which  was  named  for  him.  This  store  was  known 
as  "  The  Schooner,"  from  the  representation  of  a  vessel  of  that 
class  over  the  door.  He  was  a  prominent  member  of  St.  An- 
drew's Lodge,  and  was  a  very  active  member  of  the  Boston 
Tea  Party,  being  appointed  at  a  town  meeting,  Nov.  27,  1773, 
chairman  of  a  special  watch  or  committee  of  twenty-five  men 
to  see  that  the  tea  on  board  the  "  Dartmouth  "  was  not  landed 
by  night  or  day.  He  was  the  reputed  author  of  the  pseudo- 
Mohawk  proclamation  which  called  for  the  assembly  of  the 
Indians  and  others  to  destroy  the  tea.  The  regiment  of  militia 
of  which  Edward  Proctor  was  appointed  captain  was  known 
as  the  Boston  Regiment,  and  was  composed  of  some  of  the 
most  prominent  citizens,  many  of  whom  became  ardent  pa- 
triots and  officers  in  the  Revolution.  At  the  date  of  this  com- 
mission the  field-officers  of  the  regiment  were  John  Erving,  a 
son-in-law  of  Governor  Shirley,  John  Leverett,  and  Thomas 
Dawes,  the  last  being  the  architect  of  Brattle  Street  Church.1 
Mr.  McCleary  also  presented  a  specimen  sheet  of  Washing- 
ton's private  letter-paper.  It  is  of  foolscap  size,  and  bears  in 
water-lines  the  name  of  George  Washington  inscribed  on  a 
garter  arranged  in  a  circular  form  and  surmounted  with  his 
familiar  crest.  Within  the  garter  is  seated  a  female  figure  hold- 
ing a  
Phrygian  Cap  of  Liberty.  There  is  no  water-line  date  on 
the  paper  ;  
but  it  is  probably  post-Revolutionary  in  its  origin. 
He  also  submitted  a  copy  of  an  original  letter  dated  Orange- 
town,  N.  Y.,  Sept  29,  1780,  written  by  Lieut.  John  Whiting, 
of  the  Twelfth  Massachusetts  Regiment,  Colonel  Brewer 
commanding,  reciting  the  treason  of  Arnold,  and  the  capture 
of  Major  Andre,  which  had  taken  place  on  September  23. 
Lieut.  John  Whiting,  the  writer  of  the  letter,  served  with 
distinction  through  the  Revolutionary  War,  and  by  successive 
promotions  became  a  brigadier-general,  in  which  capacity  he 
served  with  the  Massachusetts  troops  in  suppressing  Shays's 
Rebellion.  He  was  a  citizen  of  Lancaster  in  this  State,  and 
this  letter  was  written  to  his  brother  Timothy,  also  a  citizen 
of  Lancaster.  The  original  letter  is  in  the  possession  of  the 
family  of  the  late  Paul  Willard,  of  Charlestown,  who  married 
a  daughter  of  Timothy  Whiting.  The  letter  is  somewhat 
lengthy,  and  gives  an  account  of  the  capture  of  Andre  as  cur- 
rent in  
the  American  camp  at  the  time. 
1  
Thomas  Dawes,  an  ardent  patriot,  was  the  father  of  Judge  Thomas  Dawes, 
of  the  Suffolk  Probate  Court.     He  died  Jan.  2,  1809. 
 - 496 - 
1892.]  LETTER   OF  LIEUT.    JOHN    WHITING.  451 
Camp  Orangetown,  Sept.  29,  1780. 
Dear  Brother,  —  Yours  dated  Sept.  14  came  to  hand  the  25th 
inst.  accompanied  with  others  equally  satisfactory,  for  which  please  to 
receive  my  thanks  most  gratefully  proffered. 
The  agreeable  situation  you  are  in  as  related  in  both  your  letters 
not  only  gives  me  pleasure  while  perusing  (as  is  common  on  similar 
occasions)  but  continues  to  be  very  satisfactory.  I  wish  your  agree- 
able situation  may  be  lasting  and  the  iron  hand  of  fate  long  procras- 
tinate the  stroke  which  cuts  the  golden  chain  of  pleasure. 
How  shall  I  begin  to  unfold  the  blackest  Treason  ever  known  in  the 
American  War,  plotted  by  Major  General  Arnold  who  commanded 
that  important  post  at  which  you  had  long  performed  an  assiduous  duty 
and  have  been  witness  with  what  indefatigable  zeal  many  Persons  have 
endeavored  to  render  defensible  ?  Before  I  proceed  let  me  congratu- 
late you  on  being  released  from  that  department  ere  it  was  thrown  into 
such  a  confused  manner  as  it  now  is. 
How  long  General  Arnold  has  been  plotting  with  the  Enemy  is  with 
us  uncertain  :  the  first  we  know  of  (which  is  but  just  discovered)  is, 
his  holding  a  conference  with  Mr.  Andrie,  Adjutant  General  to  the 
british  Army  near  Joshua  Smith's  house  not  far  from  King's  ferry, 
after  which  Mr.  Andrie  changed  clothes  with  Smith  at  his  house,  and 
both  visited  our  Army  which  was  not  very  difficult,  Smith  being  an 
intimate  acquaintance  of  General  Howe,  and  had  often  dined  with  some 
other  of  our  General  Officers.  When  they  had  sufficiently  reconnoitred 
our  Army  Mr.  Andrie  repairs  to  General  Arnold's  quarters  at  Robert- 
son's House,  and  by  some  means  got  a  plan  of  all  the  Works,  Strength  of 
the  Garrison,  the  Stores,  proceedings  of  a  Council  of  Officers  lately  held 
at  Head  Quarters  and  in  short  everything  that  could  be  of  any  advantage 
to  the  Enemy.  Thus  equipped,  being  also  furnished  with  a  horse  and 
a  pass  signed  Benedict  Arnold  M.  G.  the  purport  of  which  was  that 
John  Anderson  had  permission  to  pass  to  the  Lines  and  as  much  fur- 
ther as  
he  should  judge  necessary,  Mr.  Andrie  sat  off  for  New  York; 
having  rode  as  far  as  the  Lines  by  sunset,  two  Men,  who  have  served  as 
Guides  to  our  advanced  Parties,  arming  themselves,  one  of  them  ad- 
vanced towards  him  ordering  him  to  Stand.  Mr.  Andrie  thinking 
himself  below  all  the  guards  asked  the  Man  if  he  belonged  to  the  lower 
party  or  upper,  to  which  he  answered  the  latter  :  then  says  Mr.  Andrie, 
I  am  a  british  Officer,  showing  him  a  gold  watch,  which  signified  as 
much  that  no  american  officer  had  one  :  the  other  Man  coming  up,  they 
ordered  him  to  dismount:  finding  himself  caught,  he  began  to  offer 
bribes,  which  they  obstinately  refused:  seeing  his  gold  watch,  horse, 
&c  with  one  hundred  guineas  could  have  no  effect  on  them  he  offered 
to  bind  himself  by  the  most  sacred  covenant  to  give  them  whatever 
they  would  demand,  to  make  them  Gentlemen  of  independant  fortunes 
 - 497 - 
452  MASSACHUSETTS   HISTORICAL  SOCIETY.  [June, 
when  they  arrived  at  New  York,  all  of  which  did  not  prevent  these 
inflexible  Patriots  from  carrying  him  to  L.  Colonel  Jemmerson  1  
who 
commanded  Col.  Shelding's  2  
regiment  of  Dragoons  at  N.  Salem.  Col. 
Jemmerson  supposed  the  pass  to  be  a  forgery.  Mr.  Andrie  professed 
to  be  perfectly  innocent,  demanded  of  him  to  be  sent  to  and  examined 
by  Gen!  Arnold,  who  alone  knew  his  business. 
Very  providentially  it  happened  that  Col.  Jemmerson  thought  best  to 
send  papers  of  such  importance  to  his  Excellency  General  Washington 
at  Hartford,  which  he  did  by  an  Express,  who  coming  near  Hartford  was 
informed  his  Excellency  was  returning  by  way  of  Fish-Kill  :  the  Express 
followed  but  did  not  reach  him  till  after  he  had  got  to  West  Point. 
When  his  Excellency  with  his  Train  came  to  Mandeville's  they  viewed 
the  Redouts  on  the  East  side,  while  two  Aids  went  on  to  Genl.  Ar- 
nold's quarters. 
Genl.  Arnold  had  just  received  a  letter  from  Col.  Jemmerson  in- 
forming him  of  his  taking  up  —  John  Anderson  with  a  forged  pass. 
It  seems  Col.  Jemmerson,  finding  the  Express  gone  so  long,  wrote  to 
Genl.  Arnold,  and  sent  the  Prisoner  afterwards.  The  Traitor  saw  by 
this  letter  he  should  soon  be  discovered,  desired  the  Aids  de  camp  to 
excuse  him  to  his  Excellency  for  an  hour  while  he  went  to  West  Point 
having  some  business  that  required  his  presence  immediately  :  then 
going  upstairs  told  his  Wife  he  had  received  a  letter  which  obliged 
him  to  take  his  farewell  of  her  and  his  Country  forever  :  She  fainted, 
but  he  left  her,  repaired  to  his  Barge  and  ordered  his  Men  to  row  him 
down  the  River  as  Speedy  as  possible.  His  Excellency  came  to  the 
house  just  after,  was  told  General  Arnold  had  gone  to  West  Point  on 
some  urgent  business,  he  concluded  to  follow,  and  return  to  dine  with 
him:  coming  to  West  Point  General  Arnold  had  not  been  there: 
about  the  same  time  the  Express  from  Col.  Jemmerson  arrived  and 
delivered  the  papers.  His  Excellency  immediately  dispatched  two  of 
his  Aids  to  Verplank's  Point  with  express  orders  to  stop  Gen.  Arnold, 
but  they  arrived  some  time  after  he  had  passed  that  under  pretence  of 
a  flag  and  gone  on  board  the  Sloop  Vulture  which  lay  up  by  Tyler's 
point.  Thus  escaped  Benedict  Arnold  from  the  vengeance  of  his  in- 
jured Country  to  linger  out  a  contemptible  life  among  a  people  who  will 
ever  despise  him  for  his  perfidy. 
When  Mr.  Andrie  was  brought  to  Robertson's  more  of  the  plot  was 
unravelled.  Smith  was  sent  for  and  taken  at  Fishkill.  The  Garrison 
at  West  Point  were  ordered  under  Arms  :  orders  came  to  Major  Gen. 
Green  which  put  the  Pennsylvania  division  on  their  march  for  West 
Point,  the  rest  of  the  Army  in  readiness  to  march  at  the  shortest  notice. 
Let  me  now  relate  the  sacrifice  which  Arnold  intended  to  make, 
although  it  should  stun  your  ears. 
1  Lieut.-Col.  David  Jameson.    He  died  Oct.  2,  1839. 
2  Col.  Elisha  Sheldon,  of  Connecticut. 
 - 498 - 
1892.]  LETTER   OF   LIEUT.   JOHN  WHITING.  453 
The  night  of  the  25  inst.  Col.  Robertson  1  with  five  hundred  Men 
was  to  pass  by  Verplank's  point  dressed  like  our  Troops  under  a  pre- 
tence of  a  reinforcement  from  our  Army :  at  Robertson's  house 
Arnold  was  to  be  surprised.  General  Washington,  the  Marquis  de  la 
Fayette,  the  Chevalier  de  la  Luzerne,  ambassador,  B.  Genl.  Knox, 
all  their  aids  and  attendants  were  to  be  taken,  after  which  they  were 
to  take  possession  of  West  Point,  which  [torn]  much  resistance  the 
Garrison  being  reduced  (would  you  believe  it)  to  about  three  hun- 
dred Militia,  besides  Artillery,  having  under  various  pretences  been 
distributed  here  and  there  —  two  hundred  cutting  wood  at  one  place. 
The  soldiers  in  the  Garrison  had  not  more  than  two  Cartridges  per  man, 
having  been  divested  of  them  under  the  plausible  pretence  that  two 
was  enough  to  stand  on  Sentry :  had  they  more  they  would  waste  them 
—  no  alarm  post  was  assigned  to  any  but  the  Artillery.  You  see  how 
easily  this  might  have  taken  place  ;  
but  can  you  discern  how  near  the 
brink  of  ruin  we  were  ?  Men  at  the  head  of  our  military  affairs  with 
illustrious  Foreigners  captured  ;  the  communication  between  the  States 
cut  off : —  The  treachery  was  to  be  kept  a  secret  and  Arnold  after  receiv- 
ing his  reward  was  to  have  his  Parole  and  return  to  his  Seat  in  Phila- 
delphia to  
spend  in  his  former  luxurious  manner  the  Judas-like  gain. 
Mr.  Andrie  and  Mr.  Smith  are  to  be  tried  today.  Andrie  was  one  of 
their  most  promising  officers  in  the  british  Service  and  had  attained  the 
rank  of  Major  from  a  Lieutenant  by  particular  merits. 
How  propitious  !  how  merciful  !  is  indulgent  heaven  in  [torn  and 
illegible']  the  almost  inconceivable  depravity  of  human  nature  which 
cautions  [torn]  not  to  rest  secure  in  human  faith  without  suffering  us  to 
purchase  our  [fomj  dearly  by  experience.  Would  time  allow  [torn] 
further  relation  of  so  despicable  [torn]  how  the  public  Stores  were  dis- 
posed of  
by  Genl.  Arpold. 
Mrs.  Warren  lent  him  twenty-two  thousand  dollars  which  he  left 
unpaid. 
Many  Persons  say  they  were  not  deceived  in  Genl.  Arnold  :  I  con- 
fess I  
had  a  good  opinion  of  him  as  an  Officer  in  the  Field,  but  ever 
thought  him  to  be  ambitious  and  possest  of  a  great  degree  of  avarice 
and  luxury.  Some  imagine  his  profuse  manner  of  living  had  so  in- 
volved him  in  debt  that  poverty  urged  him  to  it.  Enough  upon  so 
perfidious  a  person.  Leave  him  to  his  fate  and  admire  the  Man  who 
bears  to  be  honest  in  the  worst  of  times. 
I  ask  you  to  excuse  my  answering  some  part  of  your  letter  this 
time.  If  I  have  been  too  prolix  (which  I  am  very  conscious  of)  I  have 
been  particular  and  such  matters  are  seldom  ever  related  minutely  in 
public  papers.     I  have  not  seen  Lieut.  Shaw  since  I  received  yours 
1  Col.  Beverley  Robinson,  a  Loyalist,  whose  mansion  on  the  Hudson  was  occu- 
pied by  
Arnold  as  his  headquarters.  He  fled  with  Arnold  to  England,  and  died 
at  Thornbury  in  1792. 
 - 499 - 
454  MASSACHUSETTS   HISTORICAL   SOCIETY.  [June, 
nor  can  I  give  him  timely  notice  of  Dr.  Wingate's  departure.     Many- 
Gentlemen  enquire  after  and  send  their  compliments  to  you,     Capt. 
Burbank  standing  by  insists  on  his  name  being  mentioned. 
I  am,  dear  Brother,  yours  affectionately, 
John  Whiting. 
Timothy  Whiting  Juneor.  Esq. 
Lancaster. 
Dr.  Samuel  A.  Greek  made  the  following  remarks  on  a 
small  volume  which  he  presented  to  the  library  of  the  Society. 
He  said  that  it  had  once  belonged  to  our  late  associate,  Dr. 
Thomas  H.  Webb,  as  it  bears  his  autograph  signature  on  the 
titlepage.  It  was  published  originally  as  a  pamphlet,  but  has 
since  been  bound.  The  little  book  is  entitled  :  "  RELIGION  | 
AND  |  
PATRIOTISM  |  
The  Constituents  of  a  Good  |  
SOL- 
DIER. A|   |  
SERMON  |  
Preached  to  |  
Captain  Overton's 
Independant  |  
Company  of  Volunteers,  raised  in  |  
Hanover 
County,  Virginia,  Au-  \  
gust  17, 1755.  |  
By  Samuel  Davies, 
A.  M.  Minuter  of  \  
the  Gospel  there"  |1  
PHILADELPHIA,  Printed  :  LONDON  ;  Re-printed  for 
J.  Buckland,  in  Pater-noster  Bow,  J.  Ward  at  the  King 's- 
Arms  in  Cornhill,  and  T.  Field  in  Cheapside.  1756.  8vo. 
pp.  38. 
The  writer  in  his  day  was  a  noted  minister  of  Virginia  ;  
but 
the  interest  in  the  sermon  lies  wholly  in  the  fact  that  it  con- 
tains a  
remarkable  prediction  concerning  General  Washington, 
made  twenty  years  before  the  Revolution.  In  preaching  to 
the  miltary  company,    Mr.  Davies  says  :  — 
"  Our  Continent  is  like  to  become  the  Seat  of  War  ;  and  we,  for  the 
future  (till  the  sundry  European  Nations  that  have  planted  Colonies  in 
it,  
have  fixed  their  Boundaries  by  the  Sword)  have  no  other  Way  left 
to  defend  our  Rights  and  Privileges.  And  has  God  been  pleased  to 
diffuse  some  Sparks  of  this  Martial  Fire  through  our  Country  ?  I  hope 
he  has  :  And  though  it  has  been  almost  extinguished  by  so  long  a 
Peace,  and  a  Deluge  of  Luxury  and  Pleasure,  now  I  hope  it  begins  to 
kindle  :  And  may  I  not  produce  you  my  Brethren,  who  are  engaged  in 
this  Expedition,  as  Instances  of  it?  "     (Pages  11,  12.) 
In  a  foot-note  to  this  paragraph  he  adds  :  — 
"As  a  remarkable  Instance  of  this,  I  may  point  out  to  the  Public 
that  heroic  Youth  Col.  Washington,  whom  I  cannot  but  hope  Provi- 
dence has  hitherto  preserved  in  so  signal  a  Manner,  for  some  important 
Service  to  his  Country."     (Page  12.) 
 - 500 - 
1892.]  '       REMARKS  BY  REV.   DR.   YOUNG.  455 
The  sermon  was  preached  only  a  few  weeks  after  the  en- 
gagement which  resulted  in  Braddock's  Defeat,  where  Wash- 
ington behaved  with  signal  gallantry  ;  and  the  allusion  in  the 
note  is  to  that  action,  as  well  as  to  the  battle  of  the  Great 
Meadows  in  the  summer  of  the  preceding  year. 
Dr.  Green  also  called  attention  to  a  manuscript  list  of  Mic- 
mac  names  of  places,  lakes,  and  rivers  in  Nova  Scotia,  with 
their  meanings,  which  was  compiled  by  Miss  Elizabeth  Frame, 
of  Shubenacadie,  N.  S.,  and  given  by  her  to  the  Library.  The 
names  are  nearly  three  hundred  in  number. 
Rev.  Dr.  Edward  J.  Young  then  said  : — 
I  desire  to  communicate  the  following  letter,  which  was 
written  by  a  young  Quaker  of  Philadelphia,  on  his  first  visit 
to  Boston,  ninety-one  years  ago.  In  consequence  of  terrific 
gales,  the  ship  in  which  he  sailed  was  more  than  five  weeks  on 
her  voyage,  which  was  as  long  a  time  as  is  now  necessary  for 
a  packet  to  go  from  New  York  to  Hamburg.  On  his  arrival 
here,  he  was  favorably  impressed  by  the  people  ;  
but,  coming 
from  a  city  which  was  laid  out  almost  in  parallelograms,  he 
naturally  was  not  pleased  with  our  crooked  streets. 
This  letter  mentions  briefly  several  of  the  principal  objects 
of  interest  in  the  town.  The  crescent-shaped  block  of  houses 
named  the  "  Tontine,"  which  was  situated  on  what  was  after- 
wards called  Franklin  Place,  is  especially  praised.  The  new 
Faneuil  Hall  Market,  popularly  known  as  Quincy  Market, 
was  not  then  built.  Charles  River  Bridge,  leading  to  Charles- 
town,  had  been  opened  in  1786  ;  and  West  Boston  Bridge, 
leading  to  Cambridge,  in  1793.  The  Beacon  monument  or 
column,  which  is  alluded  to,  was  completed  in  1790  ;  and  the 
new  State  House  was  finished  in  1798. 
Of  Charles  Bulfinch,  the  well-known  designer  of  both  these 
last-named  structures,  and  who  was  a  member  of  this  Society, 
I  have  heard  an  anecdote  which  may  not  be  generally  known. 
His  son,  Stephen  Greenleaf  Bulfinch,  who  told  it  to  me,  said 
that,  after  leaving  college,  he  wished  to  be  an  architect.  But 
his  father  dissuaded  him,  saying  that  most  of  the  States  al- 
ready had  their  capitols  erected,  and  that  if  he  should  devote 
himself  to  this  occupation,  there  would  probably  not  be  enough 
for  him  to  do.     Accordingly  he  became  a  clergyman.     Inas- 
 - 501 - 
456  MASSACHUSETTS  HISTORICAL  SOCIETY.  [June, 
much  as  there  are  to-day  more  than  two  hundred  architects  in 
Boston,  and  not  a  church  or  schoolhouse  or  warehouse  or  pri- 
vate dwelling  of  any  considerable  size  is  constructed  except 
according  to  plans  furnished  by  competent  talent  for  the  pur- 
pose, the  remark  of  Mr.  Bulfmch  shows  how  little  he  anti- 
cipated the  future  rapid  increase  of  wealth  in  this  country, 
and  the  opportunities  which  would  exist  for  members  of  his 
profession. 
Boston,  5  mo.  21st  1801. 
Dear  Sisters,  —  It  may  perhaps  surprise  you  to  hear  from  me  at 
Boston,  without  you  have  heard  of  my  going,  from  your  Brothers  in 
Philadelphia  ;  and  still  more  perhaps  you  would  be  surprised  if  I  was 
to  give  you  some  description  of  the  place  and  my  journey,  which  I 
would  have  done  some  time  since,  if  I  had  been  well  enough  to  have 
seen  much  of  the  town  after  my  arrival  there. 
I  left  Philadelphia  the  13th  of  the  3d  month,  and  after  being  at  sea 
about  18  days  we  experienced  a  very  severe  storm  in  which  we  were 
cast  away  on  the  Jersey  shore  near  Amboy.  We  were  there  ten  days, 
getting  the  vessel  off  the  shore,  when  we  again  set  sail  ;  but  before  we 
had  been  out  more  than  a  week,  we  underwent  as  severe  a  storm  as  the 
one  which  we  were  cast  away  in.  In  this  last  storm  we  were  drove  into 
the  Gulf  of  Florida  and  almost  to  the  West  Indies,  and  there  were  11 
Eastern  coasting  vessels  lost.  We  however  weathered  it  out,  and  ar- 
rived safe  in  Boston  on  the  19  th  of  the  4th  mo.  after  a  passage  of  thirty- 
six  days. 
In  my  opinion  the  manners  of  the  people  here  are  much  more  hospi- 
table than  they  are  in  Philadelphia;  but  the  place  itself  is  no  com- 
parison, the  streets  are  extremely  narrow  and  so  crooked  that  it  is 
impossible  to  see  the  length  of  a  Philadelphia  Square  before  you  in  any 
one  street  in  Boston. 
There  are  a  great  number  of  public  places  of  worship,  and  some  very 
handsome  public  buildings,  among  which  are  the  New  State  House  and 
a  New  Alms  House  ;  the  former,  there  is  nothing  in  Philadelphia  to 
equal  it ;  the  latter,  the  Hospital  in  Philadelphia  is  much  handsomer. 
They  have  one  very  handsome  street  here  on  which  are  the  Tontine 
buildings,  which  is  a  great  ornament  to  the  town.  It  contains  a  monu- 
ment to  the  memory  of  Dr.  Benjamin  Franklin.  In  this  street  is  kept 
the  Boston  Library,  which  is  very  small  in  comparison  to  the  one  in 
Philadelphia.     Their  market  house  is  very  bad. 
There  is  a  fine  wharf  here  called  the  Long  Wharf.  It  extends  from 
the  street  the  amazing  length  of  1743  feet  into  the  harbour  in  a  straight 
line,  and  the  breadth  is  104  feet.  On  this  wharf  there  is  a  well  from 
which  vessels  are  supplied  with  fresh  water,  surrounded  by  salt  water. 
 - 502 - 
1892.]  REMARKS   BY  MR.   R.   C.   WINTHROP,   JR.  457 
The  view  of  the  town,  as  it  is  approached  by  water,  is  very  handsome. 
The  State  House  on  Beacon  hill,  which  is  in  the  middle  of  the  town,  is 
so  high  that  it  can  be  seen  at  the  distance  of  fifty  or  sixty  miles.  There 
is  a  monument  on  this  hill,  on  the  bottom  of  which  is  written  an 
inscription  commemorating  the  most  remarkable  events  during  the 
American  Revolution.  There  are  two  Bridges  here,  which  are  very 
useful  and  ornamental  to  Boston,  called  Charles  River  and  West  Bos- 
ton bridges.  The  last  stands  on  one  hundred  and  eighty  Piers,  and  is 
said  to  be  nearly  two  miles  in  length,  and  has  draws  for  the  admission 
of  vessels,  and  a  number  of  lamps  for  evening  passengers. 
Excuse  the  length  of  my  letter,  but  I  could,  if  it  would  not  be  too 
long,  make  a  great  addition  to  it.  For  a  description  of  the  country,  I 
believe  you  must  wait  untill  I  have  the  pleasure  of  seeing  your  again. 
Please  give  my  love  to  Father  and  Mother,  Brothers  and  Sisters. 
from  your  affectionate  Brother, 
M.  &  E.  Johnson  )  Robert  Johnson. 
New  Garden. 
Attention  was  called  to  a  new  volume  of  Collections  which 
was  ready  for  publication,  comprising  a  selection  from  the  cor- 
respondence of  
Wait  Winthrop,  with  his  portrait,  and  numer- 
ous fac-similes  of  autographs.  Among  the  most  important 
documents  in  the  volume  are  an  elaborate  report  on  the 
method  of  procedure  in  the  courts  of  Massachusetts,  drawn 
up  in  1700  for  transmission  to  England,  of  which  no  copy  now 
exists  at  the  State  House,  and  the  plaintiff's  brief  in  the 
famous  case  of  Winthrop  v.  Lechmere,  appealed  from  Connecti- 
cut to  the  privy  council  in  England.  There  are  also  numer- 
ous letters  and  documents  of  one  kind  and  another  throwing 
light  on  the  social,  political,  and  economic  condition  of  Massa- 
chusetts and  Connecticut  at  the  beginning  of  the  eighteenth 
century. 
Mr.  R.  C.  Winthrop,  Jr.,  said  : — 
On  the  completion  of  successive  volumes  of  selections  from 
the  Winthrop  Papers,  of  which  the  one  laid  on  the  table  to- 
day is  
the  sixth,  there  has  usually  been  a  tacit  understanding 
that,  owing  to  the  accumulation  of  partially  examined  mate- 
rial, the  Committee  would  hold  over  and  sooner  or  later  be 
authorized  to  prepare  another.  In  the  present  instance,  how- 
ever, it  
has  been  arranged  that  the  existing  Committee  shall 
58 
 - 503 - 
458  MASSACHUSETTS  HISTORICAL   SOCIETY.  June, 
now  be  relieved  from  further  duties,  they  having  been  vir- 
tually in  
office  about  twelve  years  ;  
during  which  time  they 
have  not  merely  edited  three  separate  volumes,  but  have  exam- 
ined thousands  of  other  manuscripts,  of  which  they  have  re- 
jected many  as  not  worth  printing,  have  communicated  others 
at  different  times  to  the  Proceedings,  and  have  set  aside  the 
rest  for  the  use  of  their  successors.  For  reasons  which  I  shall 
presently  mention,  it  is  not  thought  expedient  to  appoint  a 
new  Committee  for  several  years  to  come,  and  in  view  of  the 
uncertainty  of  human  life  and  the  possibilit}^  that  the  task 
may  hereafter  devolve  upon  members  who  have  had  no  pre- 
vious acquaintance  with  the  subject,  I  have  thought  it  pru- 
dent to  prepare  for  convenient  reference  in  our  Proceedings 
a  short  statement  of  what  has  thus  far  been  accomplished  and 
of  what  remains  to  be  done. 
So  few  of  us  nowadays  find  time  to  interest  themselves  ac- 
tively in  
the  Society's  work  of  publication,  that  it  may  be  well 
to  begin  by  alluding  to  the  fact  that  we  are  in  the  habit  of 
printing  two  distinct  classes  of  historical  material,  —  the  first 
class  being  that  which  is  actually  owned  or  controlled  by  the 
Society  ;  and  the  second  class  being  the  private  property  of 
members  or  other  persons,  who  permit  us  to  publish  selections 
for  the  use  of  students.  The  Society  owns  or  controls  many 
Winthrop  manuscripts,  some  of  them  of  great  value  as  auto- 
graphs ;  
but  all  considered  worth  printing  were  published  long 
ago,  and  for  the  past  thirty  years  the  term  "Winthrop  Papers" 
has  been  conventionally  applied  to  an  exceptionally  large  num- 
ber of  
letters  and  state-papers  of  the  Colonial  and  early  Pro- 
vincial periods  which  came  into  my  father's  possession  from  two 
different  sources,  and  which  originally  belonged  to  a  still  larger 
collection  formerly  preserved  at  New  London  by  five  genera- 
tions of  
his  family.  During  the  Revolutionary  War  Gov. 
Jonathan  Trumbull  was  allowed  access  to  it  by  a  great-uncle 
of  mine,  then  its  owner,  and  was  permitted  to  take  copies  of  a 
number  of  papers,  and  to  borrow  others,  for  purposes  connected 
with  Connecticut  history.  Trumbull  died  in  1785,  without 
having  completed  this  undertaking,  and  my  aforesaid  great- 
uncle  having  predeceased  him,  the  latter's  heirs  appear  to 
have  made  no  effort  for  the  recovery  of  the  material  thus 
loaned  ,  so  that  when,  in  1794,  the  bulk  of  Trumbull's  papers 
was  given  by  his  family  to  this  Society,  they  were  found  to 
 - 504 - 
1892.]  KEMARKS  BY   MR.   R.   C.    WINTHROP,  JR.  459 
contain  many  Winthrop  papers  which  had  become  separated 
from  the  New  London  Collection.  Some  of  them  subsequently 
perished  in  the  conflagration  which  destroyed  much  valuable 
property  of  the  Society  in  1825,  while  others  will  be  found 
printed  in  the  first  volume  of  our  Third  Series  of  Collections 
and  in  the  ninth  volume  of  our  Fifth  Series. 
It  happened,  however,  that  before  we  came  into  possession 
of  the  Trumbull  Papers  they  had  been  consulted  by  Dr.  Benja- 
min Trumbull,  the  historian,  and  by  Noah  Webster,  the  lexi- 
cographer, the  
latter  of  whom  was  so  much  interested  in  a 
copy  Governor  Trumbull  had  made  of  the  first  and  second 
manuscript  volumes  of  Governor  Winthrop's  "  History  of  New 
England  "  (often  styled  Winthrop's  Journal),  that,  with  the 
consent  of  the  Winthrop  family  and  the  Trumbull  heirs,  he 
prepared  it  for  the  press,  and  in  1790  it  was  published  at 
Hartford,  in  a  single  volume,  by  Elisha  Babcock.  Twenty- 
six  years  later,  in  1816,  the  third  of  Governor  Winthrop's  man- 
uscript volumes  unexpectedly  came  to  light  in  the  tower  of  the 
Old  South  Church,  it  having  been  loaned  to  and  never  re- 
turned by  
the  Rev.  Thomas  Prince,  who  died  in  1758  ;  and,  as 
many  of  us  remember,  our  former  President,  Mr.  Savage, 
devoted  years  of  his  life  to  properly  editing  the  entire  work 
from  the  original  manuscripts,  eventually  publishing  it  in  two 
volumes,  the  first  of  which  appeared  in  1825,  the  second  in 
1826,  and  in  the  appendices  to  both  of  which  were  printed 
many  family  letters  and  other  papers  obtained  by  him  from 
one  of  our  Corresponding  Members,  the  late  Francis  Bayard 
Winthrop,  of  New  Haven,  who  had  inherited  a  fragment  of  the 
New  London  Collection.  In  this  laborious  work  Mr.  Savage 
was  much  assisted  by  another  of  our  members,  Mr.  James 
Bowdoin,  who  subsequently  undertook  single-handed  to  pre- 
pare for  the  press  an  important  portion  of  the  same  collection, 
then  belonging  to  his  father,  Hon.  Thomas  Lindall  Win- 
throp ;  
and  at  the  time  of  his  death,  in  1833,  he  had  finished 
deciphering  and  copying  one  hundred  and  thirty-five  early 
Colonial  letters  of  exceptional  value.  My  father  was  then  in 
active  political  life,  and  had  not  yet  developed  a  taste  for  his- 
torical pursuits  ;  
it  was  not  until  more  than  ten  years  after- 
ward that,  having  in  the  mean  time  been  elected  to  this  Society, 
he  communicated  to  it  the  material  prepared  by  his  brother, 
which  occupies  more  than  two  hundred  pages  of  the  ninth  and 
tenth  volumes  of  our  Third  Series  of  Collections. 
 - 505 - 
460  MASSACHUSETTS  HISTORICAL   SOCIETY.  [June, 
Then  followed  a  long  interval  during  which  my  father  was 
otherwise  engaged ;  but  in  1855,  having  been  elected  Presi- 
dent of  
the  Society  and  having  virtually  retired  from  public 
life,  he  endeavored  to  procure  the  loan,  for  historical  purposes, 
of  that  portion  of  the  original  collection  which  still  remained 
at  New  London  and  belonged  to  his  cousin,  the  late  William 
Henry  Winthrop.  In  this  he  was  unsuccessful  ;  
but  at  the  lat- 
ter's  death,  in  1860,  his  papers  passed  into  my  father's  possession, 
and  proved  to  be  much  more  numerous  and  far  more  impor- 
tant than  had  previously  been  supposed,  though  they  had 
suffered  sadly  from  damp  and,  in  some  cases,  from  mice.  My 
father  realized  how  difficult  it  would  be  for  him,  consistently 
with  his  other  occupations,  to  make  an  exhaustive  examina- 
tion of  
this  mass  of  new  material  ;  and  after  consulting  with 
Mr.  Savage  and  Mr.  Charles  Deane,  the  following  plan  was 
adopted  :  My  father  undertook  to  have  gradually  arranged  in 
folio  volumes  his  entire  collection  of  Winthrop  Papers  (includ- 
ing those  which  had  previously  come  to  him  from  his  father), 
and  after  reserving  for  his  personal  use  those  immediately 
relating  to  Gov.  John  Winthrop  the  elder  (upon  whose  Life 
he  was  then  engaged),  as  well  as  the  right  of  making  sepa- 
rate use  of  whatever  he  might  see  fit  hereafter  to  select,  he 
agreed  to  place  the  balance  for  a  considerable  period  at  the 
service  of  a  Committee  of  this  Society,  to  be  called  the  Com- 
mittee on  
the  Winthrop  Papers,  whose  duty  should  be  to  edit 
selections  for  the  use  of  historical  students  ;  but  it  was  pro- 
vided that,  in  view  of  the  restricted  income  of  our  publishing- 
funds,  a  separate  vote  of  the  Society  should  be  required  to 
authorize  the  publication  of  each  successive  volume.  In  ac- 
cordance with  this  arrangement,  in  February,  1861,  a  Com- 
mittee was  appointed,  consisting  of  my  father,  Mr.  Charles 
Deane,  and  Dr.  Chandler  Robbins,  who  forthwith  went  to 
work  and  laid  their  first  volume  on  our  table  in  March,  1863. 
Receiving  permission  to  continue  without  delay,  they  pro- 
duced their  second  volume  in  January,  1865,  when  they  were 
again  empowered  to  prepare  another.  This  third  volume 
lagged  from  various  causes,  the  work  growing  harder  as  it 
proceeded  ;  and  the  Committee,  having  been  nine  years  in 
office,  made  up  their  minds  that  they  needed  reinforcement. 
They  were  fortunate  in  securing  the  services  of  our  present 
Treasurer,  Mr.  C.  C.  Smith  ;  and  it  was  largely  due  to  his 
 - 506 - 
1892.]  REMARKS   BY  MR.   R.    C.   WINTHROP,   JR.  461 
assistance  that  they  were  able  to  present  their  third  volume  in 
June,  1871.  Then  occurred  a  very  long  interval  during  which 
hardly  anything  was  done.  My  father  was  a  good  deal  ab- 
sent in  
Europe  and  elsewhere,  Mr.  Deane  was  very  busy,  Dr. 
Robbins's  eyesight  had  begun  to  fail,  and  the  Society  was  com- 
mitted to  other  publications  for  which  its  means  barely  suf- 
ficed. In  
the  winter  of  1879-1880  I  first  began,  at  my  father's 
desire,  to  take  an  active  part  in  the  work,  and  it  was  decided 
to  take  a  fresh  start.  It  was  arranged  that  the  three  senior 
members  of  the  Committee  should  retire  ;  and  in  April,  1880, 
a  new  Committee  was  appointed,  consisting  of  Mr.  Smith,  Mr. 
George  Dexter  (then  our  Recording  Secretary),  and  myself. 
The  Society's  income  being  at  a  low  ebb,  I  agreed  to  defray 
the  expense  of  a  fourth  volume  in  order  to  avoid  further  de- 
lay, and  we  produced  it  in  September,  1882.  We  then  pre- 
ferred to  
wait  until  the  Society  should  be  again  in  funds  ;  and 
it  was  not  until  January,  1887,  that  we  were  empowered  to 
proceed,  Prof.  Edward  Channing  being  added  to  the  Com- 
mittee, on  account  of  the  lamented  death  of  Mr.  Dexter.  We 
produced  the  fifth  volume  in  April,  1889,  and  were  at  once 
authorized  to  publish  another,  for  which  we  had  already  made 
considerable  preparation,  and  which  could  have  been  ready 
by  January,  1891.  It  occurred  to  us,  however,  that  this 
would  be  the  Centennial  anniversary  of  the  Society,  and  that 
it  would  be  more  appropriate  if  the  Centennial  volume  of  Col- 
lections should  consist  of  additional  selections  from  the  Bel- 
knap Papers,  Dr.  Jeremy  Belknap  being  generally  recognized 
as  our  founder.  We  accordingly  laid  aside  the  Winthrop  vol- 
ume for  the  time  being,  but  resumed  work  upon  it  last  spring, 
and  it  is  to-day  ready  for  distribution. 
Setting  aside  the  separate  publications  of  Mr.  Savage  and  of 
my  father,  there  are  thus  in  print  six  volumes  of  Collections 
wholly  devoted  to  selections  from  the  Winthrop  Papers,  while 
fully  the  equivalent  of  a  seventh  is  to  be  found  scattered 
through  other  publications  of  the  Society,  and  consists  of 
material  communicated  at  monthly  meetings  or  contributed  to 
other  volumes  of  Collections.  It  is  very  difficult  to  make  even 
a  rough  estimate  of  how  many  more  will  be  required,  so  many 
letters  of  subordinate  historical  importance  having  thus  far 
received  only  a  cursory  examination.  It  may  turn  out  that 
three  more  volumes  will  suffice,  after  setting  aside  a  variety  of 
 - 507 - 
462  MASSACHUSETTS   HISTORICAL   SOCIETY.  [June, 
manuscripts  which  might  separately  be  communicated  to -the 
Proceedings  ;  and  in  such  case  one  of  these  volumes  would 
necessarily  be  somewhat  miscellaneous  in  its  character,  while 
the  other  two  would  chiefly  consist  of  letters  addressed  to 
John  Winthrop,  Jr.,  during  his  Governorship  of  Connecticut. 
The  reason  why  I  am  indisposed  to  have  the  Society  take  any 
further  steps  in  the  matter  for  several  years  to  come,  if  not 
longer,  lies  in  the  extreme  difficulty,  if  not  impossibility,  of 
getting  together  at  present  a  thoroughly  satisfactory  Com- 
mittee, —  
that  is  to  say,  three  Resident  Members  interested  in 
the  Colonial  period,  with  some  experience  in  editing  and  a 
reasonable  amount  of  leisure  to  devote  to  it.  Those  who  are 
most  competent  are,  as  a  rule,  engrossed  by  other  occupations, 
and  the  duties  of  a  Committee  on  Collections  are  more  laborious 
than  those  of  a  Committee  on  Proceedings.  The  latter  have 
their  work  cut  out  for  them.  They  are  chiefly  occupied  in 
editing  papers  communicated  by  others  ;  and  when  a  member 
presents  a  communication,  he  is  ordinarily  expected  to  afford 
some  assistance  in  seeing  it  through  the  press.  A  Committee 
on  Collections  gets  no  such  help  ;  
and  each  member  of  it,  if  he 
is  to  be  really  useful,  must  be  prepared,  not  merely  to  run  his 
eye  over  proof-sheets,  but  to  burrow  among  original  material, 
which  is  often  very  difficult  to  decipher.  When  the  second 
Winthrop  Committee  was  appointed,  twelve  years  ago,  we 
secured  an  eminently  fit  colleague  in  the  late  Mr.  Dexter; 
but  his  health  failed  shortly  after,  he  was  able  to  do  very  little, 
and  we  subsequently  had  great  difficulty  in  replacing  him. 
We  finally  enlisted  a  capable  recruit  in  the  person  of  Professor 
Channing,  whose  apparently  rude  health  seemed  to  us  of 
happy  augury  ;  
but,  as  ill-luck  would  have  it,  his  duties  at 
Harvard  gradually  increased  to  such  an  extent  that  he  became 
of  little  use  to  us.  This  increasing  scarcit}^  of  available  vol- 
unteers has  been  such  that  the  Society  reluctantly  adopted 
a  plan,  which  has  now  been  in  operation  for  two  years  and  a 
half,  of  employing  a  superintendent  of  publication  to  relieve 
all  Committees  whatsoever  of  the  most  fatiguing  part  of  their 
work.  The  member  appropriately  intrusted  with  these  func- 
tions happened  to  be  the  one  who  had  long  been  the  main- 
stay of  
the  Winthrop  Committee  ;  and  he  can  no  longer  be 
relied  on  for  assistance  in  this  direction,  unless  it  falls  within 
the  line  of  his  official  duties,  as  was  fortunately  the  case  with 
 - 508 - 
1892.]  REMARKS   BY  MR.    R.    C.    WINTHROP,   JR.  463 
the  present  volume.  I  therefore  prefer  to  revert,  for  the  next 
few  years,  to  the  original  method  of  conducting  the  publica- 
tion single-handed,  in  the  hope  that  I  may  obtain  some  aid 
outside  the  Resident  membership  of  the  Society.  This  ar- 
rangement, moreover,  will  leave  me  free,  upon  my  own  .respon- 
sibility and  at  my  own  expense,  to  try  the  experiment  of  a  few 
changes  in  the  method  of  publication  which  have  long  seemed 
to  me  desirable,  but  which  need  not  be  repeated  if  they  do  not 
commend  themselves  to  the  readers  of  the  next  volume.  One 
of  these  changes  is  in  the  matter  of  extracts.  The  traditions 
of  the  Society  are  opposed  to  printing  extracts  in  its  volumes 
of  Collections,  —  the  rule,  with  rare  exceptions,  having  been 
to  print  a  manuscript  in  full,  or  not  at  all.  There  can  be  no 
question  that  this  is  the  proper  course  to  pursue  in  dealing 
with  historical  material  of  the  highest  order  ;  
but  it  is  an  in- 
convenient rule  to  apply  to  papers  of  subordinate  importance, 
where  numerous  letters  by  the  same  person  have  to  be  win- 
nowed and  sifted.  It  not  infrequently  results  either  in  print- 
ing wearisome  letters,  of  which  only  two  or  three  sentences 
are  of  any  value,  or  in  depriving  a  student  of  a  few  sentences 
which  might  materially  assist  him.  In  the  last  two  volumes 
of  Winthrop  Papers  a  limited  number  of  such  extracts  were 
inserted  at  my  desire,  but  generally  in  the  foot-notes  ;  my 
present  purpose  is  to  print  in  the  text  of  the  succeeding  vol- 
ume a  very  much  larger  number,  as  I  have  derived  great 
benefit  and  instruction  from  similar  extracts  furnished  in  the 
Reports  of  the  Historical  Manuscripts  Commission  and  in 
various  Calendars  of  State  Papers  issued  by  the  British 
Government. 
Another  change  is  in  the  method  of  annotation.  The  Soci- 
ety's footnotes  are  often  of  considerable  value  and  importance  ; 
but  the  almost  invariable  rule  has  been  to  print  them  in  the 
type  technically  known  as  bourgeois,  a  type  three  sizes  smaller 
than  the  text  of  the  Collections.  To  persons  whose  sight  is 
good  this  matters  little  ;  
but  to  the  army  of  short-sighted  read- 
ers, myself  included,  bourgeois  is  a  decided  inconvenience  ;  and 
my  intention  is  to  substitute  for  it  the  type  known  as  long 
primer,  as  was  done  by  the  editors  of  the  ninth  volume  of  our 
First  Series.  In  this  matter  of  type,  moreover,  I  wish  to  leave 
myself  free  to  adopt  a  more  radical  change  if  I  see  fit.  When 
the  original  Committee  entered  upon  their  duties,  my  father 
 - 509 - 
464  MASSACHUSETTS   HISTORICAL   SOCIETY.  [June, 
suggested  that  the  type  he  was  about  using  in  his  separate 
publication  of  Governor  Winthrop's  letters,  and  already  used 
by  Mr.  Savage  for  the  Governor's  Journal  (the  type  known  as 
small  pica),  would  be  sufficiently  large  for  the  purpose,  in  view 
of  the  exceptional  amount  of  matter  to  be  printed.  Mr.  Deane, 
however,  preferred  to  adhere  to  the  more  imposing  type  known 
as  pica,  on  the  ground  that  it  had  long  become  the  traditional 
type  of  the  Society's  Collections,  as  it  has  since  continued  to 
be  with  one  important  exception.  In  1868,  the  Committee  on 
the  Mather  Papers  (Dr.  Robbins,  Professor  Torrey,  and  Dr. 
Lothrop)  took  the  responsibility  of  printing  the  result  of  their 
labors  in  small  pica,  in  order  to  produce  a  single  volume  for 
convenient  reference,  rather  than  divide  homogeneous  ma- 
terial; and  I  prefer  to  be  at  liberty  to  follow  their  example, 
should  it  hereafter  appear  desirable.  I  realize  how  hazardous 
a  thing  it  is  for  an  elderly  gentleman  to  undertake  to  tell  a 
Society  what  he  intends  to  do  in  the  future,  when  the  uncer- 
tainties of  
life  and  health  are  such  that  he  may  end  by  doing 
little  or  nothing  ;  
but,  in  any  event,  it  may  be  convenient  to 
some  succeeding  Committee  to  know  what  I  had  in  view, 
even  if  they  do  not  carry  out  my  plans. 
It  occurs  to  me  to  add,  in  conclusion,  that  my  father  and  I 
have  never  felt  any  special  sense  of  obligation  to  the  Society 
at  large  for  spending  so  much  money  in  publishing  these 
papers.  We  have  considered  that  in  so  doing  they  merely  ful- 
filled one  of  the  principal  objects  for  which  the  Society  was 
founded,  and  that  we  furnished  an  ample  quid  pro  quo.  But, 
on  the  other  hand,  we  have  always  felt  the  strongest  obliga- 
tion to  those  members  who,  at  different  periods,  have  volun- 
tarily devoted  so  much  time  and  trouble  to  participation  in 
this  undertaking,  and  to  three  of  them  in  particular.  First  of 
all,  I  need  hardly  say,  to  Mr.  Savage,  who  worked  at  a  period 
when  hardly  a  tenth  part  of  the  authorities  for  reference  now 
in  existence  were  available,  and  when  the  duties  of  an  editor 
were  necessarily  far  more  laborious  than  at  present;  next  to 
him,  to  Mr.  Charles  Deane,  whose  accurate  judgment  and 
familiarity  with  early  New  England  history  made  his  advice 
and  assistance  of  the  utmost  importance  ;  and,  in  succession 
to  Mr.  Deane,  to  our  Treasurer,  Mr.  Charles  C.  Smith,  who  has 
served  on  the  Committee  on  the  Winthrop  Papers  longer  than 
any  one  else,  and  has  given  to  his  editorial  duties  a  degree  of 
 - 510 - 
1892.]  NEW   SERIAL   OF    THE   PROCEEDINGS.  465 
careful  attention  which  few  of  us  properly  appreciate.  The 
co-operation  of  my  father  and  myself  in  this  work  has  been 
largely  due  to  family  associations  ;  but  the  three  gentlemen  I 
have  named  labored  solely  for  the  love  of  history.  The  prefer- 
ence of  
Mr.  Savage  for  a  separate  form  of  publication  identi- 
fies him  permanently  with  it;  but  the  mere  mention  in  different 
volumes  of  the  names  of  Mr.  Deane  and  Mr.  Smith  as  members 
of  a  publishing  Committee  conveys  no  adequate  idea  of  the 
value  of  services  to  which  I  gladly  take  this  opportunity  of 
paying  a  passing  tribute. 
It  was  voted  that  the  stated  meetings  for  July,  August,  and 
September  should  be  omitted,  but  that  the  President  and  Re- 
cording Secretary  should  have  authority  to  call  a  special  meet- 
ing during  the  intermission,  if  they  should  deem  it  expedient. 
Mr.  George  S.  Merriam,  of  Springfield,  was  elected  a  Resi- 
dent Member. 
A  new  serial  of  the  Proceedings,  covering  the  meetings  in 
March,  April,  and  May,  was  ready  for  delivery  at  this  meet- 
ing. It  
comprised,  among  other  matters,  a  diary  of  Rev.  Eli 
Forbes,  referring  to  which  the  Rev.  Dr.  Lucius  R.  Paige 
mentioned  some  very  amusing  variations  in  the  name  now 
written  Forbes.  While  engaged  in  preparing  his  "  History  of 
Cambridge,"  he  had  seen  the  name  spelled  Farrabas,  Farrow- 
bush,  Forbas,  Forbus,  Forbush,  and  Forbes. 
59 
 - 511 - 
 - 512 - 
LIST   OF  DONORS  TO  THE  LIBRARY. 
United  States.  —  Board  of  Geographical 
Names. 
Bureau  of  American  Republics. 
Bureau  of  Education. 
Bureau  of  Ethnology. 
Department  of  Agriculture. 
Department  of  the  Interior. 
Department  of  Labor. 
Department  of  State. 
Interstate  Commerce  Commis- 
sion. 
Navy  Department. 
Smithsonian  Institution. 
Treasury  Department. 
War  Department. 
Commonwealth  of  Massachusetts. 
Bureau  of  Statistics  of  Labor. 
State  Library. 
State  of  New  Hampshire. 
State  of  Rhode  Island. 
State  of  Vermont. 
County     Commissioners      of      Norfolk 
County,  Mass. 
Board  of  Supervisors  of  the  County  of 
Suffolk,  Long  Island,  N.  Y. 
City  of  Boston. 
City  of  Cambridge. 
Town  of  Dedham. 
City  of  Fitchburg. 
City  of  Newton. 
City  of  Providence. 
Town  of  Sutton. 
American  Antiquarian  Society. 
American  Board   of  Commissioners  for 
Foreign  Missions. 
American  Congregational  Association. 
American    Geographical    Society,   New 
York. 
American  Historical  Association. 
American  Peace  Society. 
American  Philosophical  Society,  Phila- 
delphia. 
American  Unitarian  Association. 
Amherst  College. 
Ancient  and  Honorable  Artillery  Com- 
pany. 
Andover  Theological  Seminary. 
Associated  Charities  of  Boston. 
Astor  Library,  New  York. 
Belfast  Free  Library,  Maine. 
Bostonian  Society. 
Boston  Public  Library. 
Boston  University. 
Boston  Young  Men's  Christian  Union. 
Bowdoin  College. 
British  American  Citizen  Company. 
Brooklyn  Library. 
Brown  University. 
Buffalo  Historical  Society. 
Bunker  Hill  Monument  Association. 
California  Historical  Society. 
Chicago  Board  of  Trade. 
Chicago  Public  Library. 
Cincinnati  Public  Library. 
Colby  University. 
Confederate  Veteran  Association  of  Ken- 
tucky. 
Congregational  Library. 
Congregational  Sunday-School  and  Pub- 
lishing Society. 
Congregational  Union  of  England  and 
Wales. 
Connecticut  Historical  Society. 
Cornell  University. 
Dartmouth  College. 
Dedham  Historical  Society. 
Dedham  Water  Company. 
The  Demilt  Dispensary,  New  York. 
Detroit  Public  Library. 
Diocese  of  Massachusetts. 
Domestic  and  Foreign  Missionary  Society 
of  the  Protestant  Episcopal  Church. 
Essex  Institute. 
Fire  Lands  Historical  Society. 
Grand  Lodge  of  Iowa. 
Grand  Lodge  of  Massachusetts. 
Groton  Monument  Association,  Connec- 
ticut. 
Harvard  University. 
Hasty  Pudding  Club. 
Historical  and  Philosophical  Society  of 
Ohio. 
 - 513 - 
468                                       LIST   OF   DONORS. 
Huguenot  Society  of  America. 
Humane  Society  of  Massachusetts. 
Hyde  Park  Historical  Society. 
Iowa  Historical  Society. 
Lawrence  Academy,  Groton. 
Lawrence  Public  Library. 
Maine  Historical  Society. 
Maryland  Historical  Society. 
Massachusetts  Charitable  Mechanic  As- 
sociation. 
Massachusetts  College  of  Pharmacy. 
Massachusetts  Horticultural  Society. 
Massachusetts  Medical  Society. 
Massachusetts  Society  for  the  Prevention 
of  Cruelty  to  Animals. 
Mercantile  Library  Association,  San 
Francisco. 
Mercantile  Library  Company  of  Phila- 
delphia. 
Minneapolis  Public  Library. 
Minnesota  Historical  Society. 
Museum  of  Fine  Arts,  Boston. 
The  Nahaut  Church. 
National  Conference  of  Charities  and 
Correction. 
Nebraska  State  Historical  Society. 
New  Bedford  Free  Public  Library. 
New  England  Historic  Genealogical 
Society. 
New  England  Magazine  Company. 
New  England  Methodist  Historical 
Society. 
New  York  Historical  Society. 
New  York  State  Library. 
Nova  Scotia  Historical  Society. 
Ohio  State  Archaeological  and  Historical 
Society. 
Old  Colony  Historical  Society,  Taunton. 
Old  Residents'  Historical  Association, 
Lowell. 
Oneida  Historical  Society,  Utica,  New 
York. 
Peabody  Institute,  Baltimore. 
Pennsylvania  Historical  Society. 
Phillips  Exeter  Academy. 
Providence  Public  Library. 
Redwood  Library  and  Athenaeum,  New- 
port. 
Rhode  Island  Historical  Society. 
Rochester  Historical  Society,  New  York. 
Royal  Historical  Society. 
St.  Louis  Mercantile  Library. 
St.  Louis  Public  Library. 
Salem  Public  Library. 
San  Francisco  Free  Public  Library. 
Societe  de  PHistoire  de  France. 
Societe  des  Etudes  Historiques. 
Society  of  Antiquaries  of  London. 
Publishers  of  the  Somerville  Journal. 
Sons  of  the  American  Revolution,  Con- 
necticut. 
Sons  of  the  Revolution,  New  York. 
Southern  California  Historical  Society. 
Special  Delivery  Messengers'  Associa- 
tion. 
Suffolk  Institute  of  Archaeology  and 
Natural  History,  England. 
Trinity  College,  Hartford,  Conn. 
Tufts  College. 
Ladies'  Society  of  the  Unitarian  Church, 
Burlington,  Vt. 
University  of  California. 
Virginia  Historical  Society. 
Westchester  County  Historical  Society. 
Western  Reserve  Historical  Society. 
Williams  College. 
Wisconsin  Historical  Society. 
Woburn  Public  Library. 
Editors  of  the  Woman's  Journal. 
Woman's  Relief  Corps,  Department  of 
Massachusetts. 
Worcester  Public  Library. 
Yale  University. 
Henry  Adams. 
Miss  May  Lee  Adams. 
James  N.  Arnold. 
William  W.  Backus. 
William  Spohn  Baker. 
S.  W.  Balch. 
Miss  Mary  F.  Bartlett. 
Edmund  Mills  Barton. 
Albert  Stillman  Batchellor. 
James  Phinney  Baxter. 
Charles  Henry  Bell. 
Melville  Madison  Bigelow. 
James  Wallace  Black. 
Miss  Sarah  Ellen  Blackwell. 
James  Lord  Bowes. 
Wallace  Clarke  Boyden. 
Robert  Alonzo  Brock. 
Bromfield  and  Company. 
Abram  English  Brown. 
Mrs.  Sarah  Alvord  Brown. 
George  D.  Bryan. 
William  Clarence  Burrage. 
Mrs.  Penelope  Sever  (Lincoln)  Canfield. 
Charles  Carroll  Carpenter. 
Miss  Ellen  Chase. 
Bequest  of  William  Warland  Clapp. 
Samuel  Clarkson. 
John  N.  Cole. 
John  Moore  Comstock. 
Elisha  Slade  Converse. 
Thomas  Cook  and  Son. 
William  Ashmead  Courtenay. 
Jabez  Lamar  Monroe  Curry. 
Abram  Edmands  Cutter. 
William  Healey  Dall. 
Andrew  McFarland  Davis. 
Frederick  Sumner  Davis. 
J.  Alphonso  Day. 
John  Ward  Dean. 
Mrs.  Charles  Deane. 
Arthur  Lithgow  Devens. 
Franklin  Bowditch  Dexter. 
 - 514 - 
LIST    OF    DONORS. 
469 
Morton  Dexter. 
Eeuben  Rawson  Dodge. 
Elnathan  F.  Duren. 
Elsworth  Eliot. 
Carl  Wilhelm  Ernst. 
David  Floyd,  2d. 
James  Murray  Forbes. 
Joseph  Foster. 
Miss  Elizabeth  Frame. 
Thomas  Goddard  Frotbingham. 
Horace  Howard  Furness. 
James  Mercer  Garnet. 
Samuel  Lankton  Gerould. 
Edward  Hooker  Gilbert. 
J.  J.  Goodrich. 
George  Augustus  Gordon. 
H.  L.  Gordon. 
Elbridge  Henry  Goss. 
Sylvester  Clarke  Gould. 
Milbrey  Green. 
Edward  Winslow  Hall. 
J.  Morrison  Harris. 
Henry  Allen  Hazen. 
James  King  Hazen. 
Nathaniel  P.  Hill. 
Charles  Jeremy  Hoadly. 
Richard  Manning  Hodges. 
William  Henry  Hodgkins. 
Nathaniel  Leech  Hooper. 
Eben  Norton  Horsford. 
Daniel  Wait  Howe. 
Alfred  S.  Jewett. 
Edward  Francis  Johnson. 
Charles  Colcock  Jones,  Jr. 
John  W.  Jordan. 
Miss  Susan  Blanchard  Kidder. 
Rufus  King. 
William  Berry  Lapham. 
George  Emery  Littlefield. 
William  De  Loss  Love. 
J.  D.  McGuire. 
Andrew  C.  McLaughlin. 
John  McKinstry  Merriam. 
Mrs.  Nathaniel  Holmes  Morison. 
Eben  Rollins  Morse. 
Mrs.  Caroline  Harriet  Nicholson. 
Alfred  Baylies  Page. 
Nathaniel  Paine. 
John  Carver  Palfrey. 
Mrs.  Joel  Parker  and  Family. 
Amos  Perry. 
William  Stevens  Perry. 
Stephen  Denison  Peet. 
Francis  Alonzo  Peters. 
Henry  W.  Pitman. 
William  Frederick  Poole. 
George  Bowlend  Reed. 
Warren  Augustus  Peed. 
Sidney  Smith  Rider. 
Horatio  Rogers. 
Edward  E.  Ropes. 
George  Augustus  Sanderson. 
Francis  I.  Sessions. 
Frank  Smith. 
Samuel  Thomas  Snow. 
Miss  Ruth  T.  Sperry. 
Carlton  Albert  Staples. 
Solomon  Bliss  Stebbins. 
Rodney  Metcalf  Stimson. 
Mrs.  Francis  Mary  Stoddard. 
Miss  Ellen  Adelia  Stone. 
William  Leete  Stone. 
Edward  A.  Strong. 
J.  Tanaka. 
Amos  Russell  Thomas. 
Reuben  Gold  Thwaites. 
R.  Hammett  Tilley. 
Caleb  Benjamin  Tillinghast. 
Mrs.  Frances  B.  Troup. 
John  Henry  Turner. 
Julius  Herbert  Tuttle. 
Joseph  Burbeen  Walker. 
Williston  Walker. 
Edwin  Forbes  Waters. 
Rober   Dodd  Weekes. 
Barrett  Wendell. 
Horace  Leslie  Wheeler. 
James  White. 
Mrs.  Frederic  Augustus  Whitney. 
Joseph  Williamson. 
Henry  Augustus  Willis. 
John  Wilson. 
William  Copley  Winslow. 
Joseph  Wood. 
And  the  following  Resident  Members 
Charles  Francis  Adams. 
William  S.  Appleton. 
James  M.  Bugbee. 
Mellen  Chamberlain. 
Uriel  H.  Crocker. 
Henry  G.  Denny. 
Arthur  B.  Ellis. 
Octavius  B.  Frotbingham. 
Samuel  A.  Green. 
George  S.  Hale. 
Samuel  E.  Herrick. 
Clement  Hugh  Hill. 
Hamilton  A.  Hill. 
George  F.  Hoar. 
Henry  Lee. 
Henry  Cabot  Lodge. 
Arthur  Lord. 
Edward  J.  Lowell. 
Samuel  F.  McCleary. 
Charles  Eliot  Norton. 
Henry  S.  Nourse. 
Fitch  Edward  Oliver. 
 - 515 - 
470                                        LIST   OF   DONORS. 
Francis  Parkman. 
Andrew  P.  Peabody. 
Edward  G.  Porter. 
Frederick  W.  Putnam. 
John  C.  Ropes. 
Stephen  Salisbury. 
Leverett  Saltonstall. 
Edmund  F.  Slafter. 
Charles  C.  Smith. 
John  D.  Washburn. 
Justin  Winsor. 
Robert  C.  Winthrop. 
Robert  C.  Winthrop,  Jr. 
Edward  J.  Young. 
 - 516 - 
INDEX. 
A, 
Abbott,  Major  Henry  L.,  42. 
Adams,  Rev.  Amos,  death  of,  411. 
Adams,  Brooks,  A.B.,  199  n.,  204  n., 
218  n. 
Adams,  Hon.  Charles  Francis,  LL.D.,  2, 
46,  63,  67. 
Adams,  Charles  Francis,  A.B.,  25  n., 
29,  30,  55,  56,  82,  211-214,  238,  240- 
243,  250,  257,  261,  317,  332,  368.  Re- 
marks by,  
on  the  death  of  James  Rus- 
sell Lowell,  3.  Appointed  to  write  a 
memoir  of  Edmund  Quincy,  6.  Re- 
marks by,  
on  the  "  School  Land  "  in 
Braintree,  and  on  the  site  of  the  Wes- 
sagusset  Settlement,  22.  Remarks 
by,  in  presenting  a  paper  on  the  Gen- 
esis of  
the  Massachusetts  Town,  and 
the  Development  of  Town-meeting 
Government,  174.  Elected  Vice-Pre- 
sident, 383.  Supplemental  Paper  on 
the  Genesis  of  the  Massachusetts 
Town,  441. 
Adams,  Henry,  A.B.,  60,  61,  67. 
Adams,  Prof.  Herbert  B.,  175  n.,  216, 
242. 
Adams,  John,  Pres.  of  the  United  States, 
21,77,  126. 
Adams,  Rev.  Nehemiah,  D.D.,  95. 
Adams,  Thomas  (King  Tom),  296.  Let- 
ter of,  
to  John  Winthrop,  Jr.,  297. 
Adkins,  Sir  Anthony,  Governor  of  Bar- 
badoes,  16. 
Agnese,  Baptista,  302,  304,  307. 
Akins,  Thomas  B.,  D.C.L.,  366. 
Alden,  John,  5L 
Aldrich,  Hon.  P.  Emery,  LL.D.,  250, 
257. 
Allefonsce,  Jean,  302,  303,  306. 
Allen,  Dr.  Daniel,  death  of,  166. 
Allen,  William,  Chief  Justice  of  Penn., 
341. 
Allison,  Rev.  Francis,  D.D.,  340. 
Allyn,  Rev.  John,  D.D.,  121. 
Althorp,  England,  Library  of  Earl 
Spencer  at,  65. 
America,  references  to,  in  Horace  Wal- 
pole's  letters,  7-10. 
American  Academy  of  Arts  and  Sci- 
ences, 84,  
88. 
American  Antiquarian  Society,  25  n., 
59-62,  66,  72,  78,  80,  82,  85,  87,  89, 
100. 
American  Historical  Association,  88, 
101,  126. 
American  Independence,  description  of 
some  Dutch  medals  issued  in  recogni- 
tion of,  
20,  21. 
Ames,  Gen.  Adelbert,  111. 
Amory,  Thomas  C,  A.M.,  435. 
Amory,  William,  A.M.,  38,  376. 
Anderson,  John.     See  Andre,  John. 
Anderson,  Rev.  J.  S.  M.,  identifies  Brad- 
ford's manuscript  History  of  Ply- 
mouth, 53,  
54.  Uses  the  manuscript 
of  Wingfield's  "  Discourse,"  59. 
Andover,  Mass.,  controversy  relating  to 
the  Theological  Seminary  at,  99. 
Andre,  Major  John,  355,  450-453. 
Andrew,  John  A.,  LL.D.,  Gov.  of  Mass., 
106. 
Andrews,  Prof  Charles  M.,  175  n.,  180  n., 
181  n.,  216. 
Andros,  Sir  Edmund,  149,  152. 
Anonymous  Fund,  376,  382. 
Antietam,  battle  of,  40,  41,  43. 
Antinomians,  137. 
Appleton  Fund,  374,  382.  Income  of, 
374,  379,  382. 
Appleton,  John,  M.D.,  84. 
Appleton,  Hon.  Nathan,  LL.D.,  123,  374. 
Appleton,  Samuel,  337,  374. 
Appleton,  Hon.  William,  36,  95,  374. 
Appleton,  William  S.,  A.M.,  19  n.,  369. 
Arber,  Edward,  58. 
Archer,  Hon  William  S.,  conversations 
with,  290-293. 
Arnold,  Gen.  Benedict,  412.  Treason 
of,  451-453. 
Arnold,  Isaac,  46. 
Arnold,  Matthew,  his  estimate  of  the 
prose  of  R.  W.  Emerson,  9. 
Arnold,  Hon.  Samuel  G.,  LL.D.,  91. 
Arnold,  Rev.  Thomas,  D.D.,  422. 
Ashley,  Prof  William  J.,  243. 
Aspinwall,  Col  Thomas,  A.M.,  30,  71. 
Memoir  of,  by  Charles  C.  Smith,  32- 
 - 517 - 
472                                              INDEX. 
38.  His  birth  and  parentage,  32.  Re- 
miniscences of  
his  school-days,  32  n. 
His  services  in  the  War  of  1812,  33. 
Appointed  Consul  at  London,  34.  His 
removal,  ib.     His  services  in  London, 
35.  His  work  in  behalf  of  this  Society, 
36.  His  death,  37.  His  personal  ap- 
pearance and  character,  38. 
Aspinwall,  William,  140,  143. 
Aspin wall,  William,  M.D.,  H.U.  1764,  32. 
Atchison,  Topeka,  and  Santa  Fe  Rail- 
road Co.,  378. 
"  Atlantic  Monthly/'  263  n.  ;  edited  by 
James  Russell  Lowell,  6. 
Auditing  Committee,  Report  of,  382. 
Austerfield,  the  birthplace  of  William 
Bradford,  52. 
Austin,  Hon.  James  T.,  LL.D.,  119, 120  n. 
B. 
Bacon,  Francis,  131  n      135. 
Bacon,  Nathaniel,  67. 
Baldwin,  C.  C,  365. 
Ball's  Bluff,  battle  of,  106. 
Baltimore,  Md.,  106,  263  n.,  269. 
Bancroft,  Hon.  George,  LL.D.,  8,  46,  62, 
87,  439. 
Banejs,  Edward,  LL.B.,  vote  of  thanks 
to^  383. 
Bank  of  England,  Charter  of,  197,  198  n. 
Barbadoes,  13,  16. 
Barbour,  Hon.  Philip  P.,  290. 
Barclay,   Alexander,   his  translation  of 
Brandt's  "  Shyppe  of  Fooles,"  353. 
Barclay,  Rev.  Henry,  D.D.,  339. 
Baring  Brothers  &  Co.,  Messrs.,  34. 
Barksdale,  Mr.    ,  
290. 
Barlow,  Gen.  Francis  C,  109. 
Barlow,  Samuel  L.  M.,  36. 
Barnard,  Hon.  Henry,  LL.D.,  400. 
Barrell,  Joseph,  416  n.,  417. 
Barry,  Rev.  John  S.,  53,  54,  204  n.,  218. 
Bartlett,  Hon.  John  R  ,  
46,  83. 
Bartlett,  Rev.  Samuel  C,  D.D.,  92. 
Bartlett,  Sidney,  LL.D.,  44. 
Bartlett,  Gen.  William  F.,  42. 
Barton,  Hon.  Ira  M.,  84. 
Barton,  Col.  William,  110. 
Battey,  Dr.  Robert,  373. 
Bawtry,  England,  65. 
Baxter,  James  Phinney,  25  n.,  80. 
Baylies,  Hon.  Francis,  51,  319  n. 
Beardsley,  Rev.   Eben  E.,   D.D.,   366. 
Death  of,  295. 
Beattie,  William,  321. 
Belcher,  Gov.  Jonathan,  340,  373. 
Belknap,  Miss  Elizabeth,  144. 
Belknap,  Rev.  Jeremy,  D.D.,  121 
144,  145,  461. 
Belknap  Papers,  10. 
Bellingham,  Gov.  Richard,  136,  138. 
122, 
Bemis,  George,  LL.B.,  376. 
Benton,  Hon.  Thomas  H.,  291,  292. 
Bernard,  Sir  Francis,  Gov.  of  Mass.,  393 
394. 
Berwick,  Maine,  attacked  by  the  In- 
dians, 153. 
Biddeford,  Maine,  46,  47. 
Biddle,  Richard,  74. 
Bigelow,  Hon.  George  T.,  LL.D.,  328. 
Bingham,  Joseph,  his  "  Origines  Eccle- 
siasticse,"  cited,  252. 
Blackstone,  William,  219,  231. 
Blagden,  Rev.  George  W.,  D.D.,  374. 
Blake,  George,  A.M.,  120  n. 
Bledsoe,  Judge  Jesse,  288. 
Bliss,  Rev.    ,  
403. 
Boardman,  Rev.  Benjamin,  400.  Diary 
of,  during  the  siege  of  Boston,  400-413. 
Bodleian  Library,  63,  67. 
Body  of  Liberties,  cited  as  to  rights  of 
inhabitants  and  foreigners  in  Massa- 
chusetts, 206. 
Body,  Ferdinand,  13-15. 
Boise,  Prof.  J.  R.,  91. 
Booth,  Henry,  91. 
Boston,  England,  65. 
Boston,  9,  
il,  12,  22,  24,  28,  37,  39,  43, 
47,  49,  52,  93,  95,  98,  100,  104,  105, 
112,  113,  119,  128,  133  ».,  137-139,  144 
et  seq.,  176,  194-196,  210,  211,  219,  231, 
235-237,  260,  262,  317.  320  et  srq,,  331, 
333,  355-360,  387,  389,  396,  400  et  sea., 
414,  415,  417,  418,  420,  421,  426-431, 
434,  444,  449,  450,  455-457.  Fires  in, 
155,  156,  162,  165. 
Boston  and  Albany  Railroad  Co.,  377, 
378. 
Boston  Art  Museum,  10. 
Boston  Board  of  Trade,  37. 
"  Boston  Courier,"  48. 
"  Boston  Daily  Advertiser,"  56  n.,  72. 
"  Boston  Evening  Transcript,"  48. 
Boston  Five  Cent  Savings  Bank,  376. 
Boston  Latin  School,  39. 
Boston  Provident  Association,  346. 
Boston  Real  Estate  Trust,  378. 
"Boston*  Recorder,"  93,  94. 
Botero,  Giovanni,  308. 
Bowditch,  Nathaniel  I.,  LL.D.,  374. 
Bowdoin,  James,  LLj.D.,  Gov.  of  Mass., 
120,  122,  341  n. 
Bowdoin,  James,  A.M.,  459. 
Bovd,  William  P.,  11. 
Braddock,  Gen.  Edward,  269. 
Bradford,  Alden,  LL.D.,  122,  125. 
Bradford,  Gamaliel  (d.  1824),  122. 
Bradford,  Gamaliel,  M.D.  (d.  1839),  122. 
Bradford,  Gamaliel,  A.B.,  II.  U.  1849, 
remarks  bv,  317. 
Bradford,  Gov.  William,  25  n„  50-56,  65, 
352.  Discovery  of  the  manuscript  of 
his  History  of  Plymouth,  53-55. 
Bradstreet,  Gov.  Simon,  150,  155. 
 - 518 - 
INDEX.                                               473 
Braintree,  Mass.,  22,  176,  208-210,  368. 
Brande,  William  T.,  223,  251-253. 
Brandt,    Sebastian,    his    "  Shyppe     of 
Fooles,"  353. 
Brattle  Street  Church,  Boston,  model  of, 
376. 
Brattle,  Thomas,  122. 
Brattle,  Rev.  William,  414,  415. 
Bray,  Rev.  ■   ,  
402.  > 
Brenton,  William,  136. 
Brevoort,  J.  Carson,  LL.D.,  46. 
Brewster,  Elder  William,  52,  57. 
Briggs,  James,  417  n. 
Bright,  Rev.  Francis,  233. 
Brimmer,  Ron.  Martin,  A.B.,  369. 
Brinley,  George,  46. 
British  and  American  Steam  Navigation 
Co.,  35. 
British  Museum,  63. 
"  British  Queen,"  steamer,  35. 
Brookfield,  Mass.,  384  et  seq. 
Brookline,  Mass.,  7,  32,  36,  38. 
Brooks,  Rt.  Rev.  Phillips,  D.D,  114. 
Brown,  Alexander,  59,  60,  67-69. 
Brown,  Charles  Brockden,  9. 
Brown,  Buckminster,  M.D.,  bequest  of 
a  carved  wooden  goblet  to  the  Society, 
315. 
Brown,  J.  Carter,  A.M.,  46. 
Brown,  Bon.  George  F.,  91. 
Brown,  Samuel,  417. 
Brown  University,  91,  101. 
Browning,  Robert,  5. 
Brownsville,  Penn.,  268,  270. 
Brunswick,  Maine,  75. 
Bryant,  William  C,  LL.D.,  9,  421. 
Bryce,  James,  D.C.L.,  243. 
Buchan,  David  Stuart  Erskine,  Earl  of, 
127. 
Buchanan,  James,   Pres.  of  the  United 
States,  106. 
Buckminster,  Rev.  Joseph  Stevens,  122. 
Bugbee,    James    M.,    communicates    a 
memoir    of    Samuel    C.    Cobb,    817. 
Memoir  of  Samuel  C.  Cobb  by,  318- 
330.      On  the  committee  to  examine 
the  Library  and  Cabinet,  335.     Their 
report,  370. 
Bnlfineh,  Charles,  A.M.,  417,  455. 
Bulfinch,  Rev.  Stephen  G.,  455. 
Bulfinch,  Dr.  Thomas,  417. 
Bulkeley,  Major  Peter,  death  of,  146. 
Bullock,  Alexander  H.,  LL.D  ,  
Gov.  of 
Mass.,  112. 
Burnham,  C,  47. 
Burnside,  Gen.  Ambrose  E.,  107. 
Burr,  Rev.  Aaron,  340. 
Bursley,  John,  190. 
Butler,  Benjamin  F.,  Attorney -General  of 
the  United  States,  292. 
Butler,  Major-Gen.  Benjamin  F.,  110. 
Butterick,  Mr.    ,  
278,  284. 
Bynner,  Edwin  L.,  LL.B.,  345. 
C. 
Cabinet-keeper.  See  Oliver,  Fitch  Ed- 
ward. 
Cabinet  of  the  Society,  Report  of  the 
Committee  on  the,  370,  371.  Acces- 
sions to,  
for  the  year  ending  March  31, 
1892,  372-374.  Annual  Report  of  the 
Cabinet-keeper,  ib. 
Cabot,  John  and  Sebastian,  76.  Import- 
ance of  
their  voyages,  73,  74. 
Cabot,  Sebastian,  his  mappe-monde,  66, 
74,  299,  300,  304. 
Cadets,  Independent  Company  of,  33,  42. 
Calef,  Robert,  56  n. 
Cambridge,  England,  65,  260. 
Cambridge,  Mass.,  5,  68,  75,  80,  84,  85, 
87,  89,  176,  192-194,  210,  235,  236  n., 
245,  333,  356,  435,  455.  Memorial 
Hall  at,  9.  Selectmen  first  chosen  at, 
361. 
Campbell,  James  C,  289. 
Campbell,  John,  264. 
Cannes,  France,  44. 
Cape  Ann,  401,  406,  408.  Settlement  at, 
231. 
Carlton,  Edward,  132. 
Cartier,  Jacques,  paper  oh  the  Results 
in  Europe  of  his  Explorations,  by  Jus- 
tin Winsor,  298-315. 
Cary,  Hon.  Thomas  G.,  A.M.,  428,  429. 
Cary,  Mrs.  Elizabeth,  suspected  of 
witchcraft,  161. 
Casco,  Maine,  attacked  by  the  Indians, 
154. 
Casgrain,  Abbe  Henry  R.,  his  acceptance 
of  Corresponding  Membership,  6. 
Cass,  Hon.  Lewis,  292. 
Chamberlain,  Hon.  Mellen,  LL.D.,  19, 
36  n.,  51,  127,  175  n.,  181  n.,  201  n.,  205, 
211,  242,  243.  250,  257,  338,  422  n.,  441, 
442,  444.  Remarks  by,  on  Horace 
Walpole  and  Sir  Robert  Walpole,  10. 
Paper  by,  on  Gov.  Winthrop's  estate, 
127-143.  Paper  by,  on  the  Genesis 
of  the  Massachusetts  Town,  214-242. 
Appointed  on  the  committee  to  nomi- 
nate officers,  335. 
Cbanning,  Edward,  Ph.  D.,  175  n.,  178  n., 
203  n.,  216,  218,  223,  441,  442,  445, 
446,  461,  462.  Paper  by,  on  the  Gene- 
sis of  the  Massachusetts  Town,  242- 
263. 
Channing,  Rev.  William  Ellery,  D.D., 
120  n.,  291. 
Chapin,  Hon.  Henry,  LL.D.,  84. 
Charles  town,  Mass  ,  
104,  144  et  seq.,  219, 
231,  234,  235,  357,  361,  419  n.,  455. 
Charlottesville,  Virginia,  263  n. 
Chase,  George  B.,  A.M.,  describes  the 
portrait  of  Paul  Revere  by  J.  S.  Cop- 
ley, 119.  States  why  it  has  not  been 
publicly  exhibited,  294. 
60 
 - 519 - 
474                                              INDEX. 
Chauncy,  Rev.  Charles,  D.D.,  389,  390, 
396,  397. 
C ha uve net,  Prof.  William,  91. 
Chaves,  Alonso  de,  298. 
Chester,  England,  63. 
Chew,  Benjamin,  342. 
Chicago  and  West  Michigan  Railroad 
Co.,  377. 
Chicago,  Burlington,  and  Quincy  Rail- 
road Co.,  377. 
Chicago  Junction  Railways  and  Union 
Stock  Yard  Co.,  378. 
"Christian  Examiner,"  48- 
Church,  Col.  Benjamin,  79,  103. 
Church,  Dr.  Benjamin,  405,  409. 
Churchill,  Charles,  English  poet,  79. 
Cincinnati,  Ohio,  284-286. 
Cincinnati,  Dayton,  and  Iron  ton  Rail- 
road Co.,  378. 
Cincinnati  Electric  Light  Co.,  378. 
Cincinnati  Gas  Light  and  Coke  Co.,  378. 
Cincinnati,  Society  of  the,  41. 
Clap,  Capt.  Roger,  217  n.,  260. 
Clapp,  Col.  William  W.,  bequest  of,  to 
the  Society,  316. 
Clarke,  Rev.  John,  D.D.,  122. 
Clarksburg,  Md.,  265. 
Clav,  Hon.  Henry,  268,  289. 
Cleveland,  Rev.  Charles,  346. 
Cleverly,  Thomas  F.,  26. 
Cobb,  Austin  (or  Augustine),  318. 
Cobb,  Gen.  David,  318-320. 
Cobb,  John,  318. 
Cobb,  Hon.  Samuel  C,  49.  Memoir  of, 
by  James  M.  Bugbee,  318-330.  His 
ancestry,  318.  His  birth,  320.  Ex- 
tracts from  his  journal,  320-323.  His 
marriage,  321.  Enters  public  life,  323. 
Elected  Mayor  of  Boston,  324.  Rec- 
ommends a  
revision  of  the  City  Char- 
ter, 325.  His  administration,  326,  327. 
Becomes  President  of  the  Revere  Na- 
tional Bank,  327.  Other  offices  held 
by  him,  328.  His  death,  329.  His  per- 
sonal character,  ib. 
Cochran,  Dr.    ,  
287-289. 
Coddington,  Gov.  William,  22,  23. 
Coffin,  Rev.  Paul,  S.T.D.,  46. 
Coggeshall,  John,  136. 
Coke,  Sir  Edward,  213,  258. 
Colton,  George  H.,  LL.D.,  91. 
Columbia  River,  discovery  of  the,  416- 
421. 
"  Columbia,"  ship,  416-421. 
"  Columbian  Centinel,"  120  n.,  121. 
Columhian  National  Bank,  Boston,  378. 
Columbus,  Christopher,  18,  19,  353. 
Committees  of  the  Society.  To  nomi- 
nate officers,  335 ;  report  of,  382  ;  to 
audit  the  Treasurer's  accounts,  335  ; 
report  of,  382  ;  to  examine  the  Library 
and  Cabinet,  335;  report  of,  370. 
Conant,  Roger,  80,  231,  234. 
"  Congregational  Quarterly,"  95. 
Congregationalism,  Rev.  Dr.  Dexter's 
familiarity  with  its  theory  and  prac- 
tice, 96-99. 
"  Congregationalist,"  Boston,  93,  94. 
Congreve,  William,  272,  273. 
Cook,  Capt.  James,  416. 
Coolidge,  Baldwin,  373. 
Cooper,  James  Fenimore,  9. 
Cooper,  Rev.  Samuel,  D.D.,  889. 
Copley,  John  Singleton,  435.  His  por- 
trait of  
Paul  Revere,  described,  119. 
Why  it  has  not  been  exhibited,  294. 
Corresponding  Secretary.  See  Winsor, 
Justin. 
Cotton,  Rev.  John,  90. 
Couch,  Gen.  Darius  N.,  107. 
Council  of  the  Society,  reports  from  the, 
332,  366. 
Coxe,  Rev.  William,  63. 
Cradock,  Matthew,  his  letter  to  Gov. 
Endicott,  cited,  231  n.,  232  n. 
Crocker,  Hon.  Samuel,  320. 
Crosby,  Joseph,  209. 
Crowninshield,  Edward  A.,  A.M.,  48, 
53,  83. 
Cullum,  Gen.  George  W.,  366.  Death 
of,  331. 
Cunningham,  Messrs.  A.  &  C,  320,  321. 
Cunningham,  J.  Henry,  321. 
Cushing,  Hon.  Thomas,  LL.D.,  77. 
Cushman,  Thomas,  his  sermon  at  Ply- 
mouth in  
1621,  57,  83. 
D. 
Daggett,  Rev.  Naphtali,  D.D.,  Pres.  of 
Yale  College,  356,  409. 
Dale,  Eben,  375. 
Dana,  Rev.  James,  D.D.,  124. 
Dana,  Gen.  Napoleon  J.  T.,  40. 
Dana,  Richard  H.,  LL.D.,  46,  96,  369. 
Danes,  their  influence  on  English  insti- 
tutions, 249. 
Dartmoor  Prison,  Edward  L.  Pierce's 
memoranda  about,  17. 
Davenport,  Rev.  John,  90. 
Davidson,  George,  419. 
Davies,  Rev.  Samuel,  454. 
Davis,  Hon.  John,  LL.D.,  Pres.  Mass. 
Hist.  Soc,  50,  51,  52,  122,  123,  125. 
Davis,  Hon.  Nathaniel  M.,  A.M.,  122. 
Davis,  Samuel,  122. 
Dawes,  Col.  Thomas,  450. 
Dawes,  Hon.  Thomas,  Jr.,  A.M.,  124, 
450  n. 
Dawson,  Henry  B.,  46. 
Day,  Prof.  George  E.,  98,  101. 
Day,  Stephen,  138. 
Deane,  Charles,  LL.D.,  30,  37,  199  n., 
243,  301,  460,  464,  465.  Memoir  of, 
by    Justin   Winsor,  45-89.     Autobi- 
 - 520 - 
INDEX.                                               475 
ographic  fragment  by,  cited,  46-49. 
His  birth,  46.  Education  and  early 
life,  ib.  Interest  in  the  beginnings 
of  American  history,  49.  Identifies 
a  part  of  Bradford's  manuscript  His- 
tory of  Plymouth,  50.  Prints  the 
first  Plymouth  patent,  52.  Further 
identification  of  Bradford's  History, 
53.  Obtains  a  transcript  of  the  manu- 
script in  the  Fulham  Library,  54. 
Prints  it  in  the  Society's  Collections, 
55.  His  opinion  as  to  the  duties  of 
an  editor,  56.  His  continued  inter- 
est in  everything  relating  to  the 
Plymouth  Colony,  57.  His  interest 
in  the  early  history  of  Virginia,  58. 
Obtains  a  transcript  of  Wingfield's 
Discourse,  and  prints  it  in  the  Pro- 
ceedings of  
the  American  Antiqua- 
rian Society,  59.  His  views  as  to  the 
inconsistencies  in  Capt.  John  Smith's 
account  of  Pocahontas,  60,  61.  Edits 
some  rare  tracts  by  Capt.  John  Smith, 
61.  Visits  Europe,  62-65.  His  lack 
of  facility  in  the  use  of  foreign  lan- 
guages, 66.  Services  rendered  by 
him  to  the  author  of  the  Genesis  of 
the  United  States,  67-69.  Publishes 
a  bibliographical  account  of  Hutch- 
inson's History  of  Massachusetts,  69. 
Various  contributions  to  the  Pro- 
ceedings of  
this  Society,  70,  71.  Re- 
covers the  missing  portions  of  Hub- 
bard's History,  71.  His  desire  to  see 
historical  questions  settled,  ib.  His 
paper  on  the  "  Forms  used  in  issuing 
Letters  Patent  by  the  Crown  of  Eng- 
land," 72.  His  opinions  on  the  alleged 
discovery  of  America  by  the  North- 
men and  on  the  Popham  Colony,  72, 
73.  His  interest  in  the  voyages  of 
the  Cabots  and  in  Cabot's  mappe- 
monde,  74.  Edits  Hakluy t's  "  Westerne 
Planting,"  75.  His  help  in  the  publi- 
cation of  
the  "Memorial  History  of 
Boston,"  and  the  "  Narrative  and 
Critical  History  of  America,"  76.  His 
knowledge  of  the  history  of  Massa- 
chusetts, 77.  His  report  to  the  Anti- 
quarian Society  on  the  relation  of 
Massachusetts  to  the  slave-trade  and 
slavery,  78.  His  reputation  as  an 
historical  scholar,  ib.  Thoroughness 
of  his  minor  investigations,  79,  80. 
His  conspicuous  love  of  truth,  82. 
His  personal  friendships,  82-84.  His 
study  of  the  Kohl  collection  of  maps, 
85.  Honors  conferred  on  him,  86. 
His  services  to  this  Society  and  to 
the  American  Antiquarian  Society, 
87.  Other  societies  of  which  he  was 
a  member,  88.  His  death,  89.  Trib- 
utes to  
his  memory,  ib. 
Deane,  Ezra,  M.D.,  46. 
Deane,  John,  46. 
Deane,  Walter,  46. 
De  Bry,  Theodore,  308. 
De  Costa,  Rev.  Benjamin  F.,  D.I)., 
350. 
Dedham,  Mass.,  176,  186,  187,  202,  205. 
210,  372,  444. 
Dedham  Historical  Society,  373. 
Dee,  Dr.  John,  311.     . 
Descelliers,  Pierre,  301. 
Desimoni,  Cornelio,  18. 
Derby,  Capt.  John,  417,  418. 
Devens,  Arthur  Lithgow,  A.B.,  113. 
Devens,  Charles,  LL.D.,  369.  Memoir 
of,  by  John  C.  Ropes,  104-117.  His 
birth,  104.  His  education,  105.  United 
States  Marshal,  ib.  His  military 
services  during  the  Rebellion,  106- 
111.  Attorney-General  of  the  United 
States,  112.  Justice  of  the  Supreme 
Court  of  Massachusetts,  113.  His 
death,  ib.  His  character  as  a  man 
and  as  an  officer  of  the  army,  114  ;  as 
a  Judge,  115;  as  an  orator,  ib.;  in 
private  life,  116. 
Devens,  Richard,  104. 
Dexter,  Rev.  Elijah,  90. 
Dexter,  Franklin  B.,  A.M.,  98. 
Dexter,  George,  A.M.,  376,  461,  462. 
Dexter,  Rev.  Henry  M.,  D.D.,  31,  46. 
57,  369.  Memoir  of,  by  John  E.  San- 
ford,  90-103.  His  ancestry,  90.  His 
education,  91.  Enters  the  Christian 
ministry,  92.  Settled  in  Boston,  93. 
Becomes  editor  of  the  "  Congrega- 
tionalism" 94.  His  interest  in  the 
slavery  question,  95.  His  familiarity 
with  Congregationalist  principles  and 
usages,  96.  His  writings  in  illustra- 
tion of  them,  98.  His  interest  in  the 
"  Andover  Controversy,"  99.  His 
death,  100.  Honors  conferred  on 
him,  101.  His  personal  appearance, 
ib.  His  characteristics,  102.  List  of 
his  most  important  works,  ib. 
Dexter,  Rev.'  Morton,  98. 
Dexter,  Thomas,  90. 
Dickens,  Charles,  272. 
Dickinson,  Miss  Emilv,  6. 
Dorchester,  Mass.,  176,  177,  180-186, 
202,  205,  210,  217  n.,  235-238,  246, 259- 
261,  444. 
Doughty,    ,  
274,  276. 
Douglas,  Hon.  Stephen  A.,  94. 
Dover,  N.  H,  231. 
Downing,  Emanuel,  14,  15. 
Downing,  Lucy,  14,  15. 
Dowse  Fund,  375,  382. 
Dowse  Library,  86,  372. 
Doyle,  John  A.,  A.M.,  205,  210,  239  n., 
240  n. 
Drake,  Col.  Jeremiah  C,  110. 
 - 521 - 
476                                               INDEX. 
Drake,  Samuel  G.,  A.M.,  46,  51. 
Draper,  Lyman  C,  LL.D.,  366. 
Duehe,  Rev.  Jacob,  Jr.,  341. 
Dudley,  Gov.  Joseph,  149,  152.  His  con- 
nection with  the  trial  of  Jacob  Leisler, 
157. 
Dudley,  Gov.  Thomas,  70,  90. 
Duffield,  Rev.  George,  D.D.,  840. 
Dummer,  Richard,  128. 
Dunbar,  Cliarles  F.,  LL.D.,  369. 
Dunster,  Rev.  Henry,  Pres.  of  Harvard 
College,  14,  15,  135,  138. 
Duxbury,  Mass.,  57. 
Dyer,  Mary,  137. 
Dyer,  William,  136. 
E. 
East  India  Company,  Charter  of,  197, 
198  n. 
E.  B.  Bigelow  Fund,  375,  384. 
Eden,  Richard,  309. 
Eells,  Rev.  Samuel,  402. 
Egleston,  Melville,  216. 
Election  of  Members,  347,  366.  Reso- 
lution requesting  the  Council  to  sub- 
mit their  conclusions  on  the  subject, 
298.     Report  on,  332-335. 
Eliot,  Rev.  Andrew,  D.D.,  389. 
Eliot,  Rev.  Andrew,  122. 
Eliot,  Rev.  John,  D.U.,  121,  122,  124, 125, 
127. 
Eliot,  Samuel,  LL.D.,  429  n. 
Elliot,  Arthur,  223,  253,  254. 
Ellis,  Rev.  George  E.,  LL.D.,  President, 
1,  3, 11,  19,  118,  125,  144,  296,  317,  331, 
348,  349,  383,  384,  438  Remarks  by, 
on  the  death  of  James  Russell  Lowell, 
1.  Remarks  by,  on  Paul  Revere,  118. 
Remarks  by,  in  announcing  the  deaths 
of  John  G.  Shea  and  George  W.  Cul- 
lum,331.  Elected  President,  383.  Re- 
marks by,  
on  the  historical  writings  of 
Francis  Parkman,  438. 
Emerson,  Ralph  Waldo,  LL.D.,  9, 
376. 
Emerson,  Rev.  William.  122. 
Endicott,  Gov.  John,  48,  72,  199,  212, 
231-235,  259. 
Enos,  Major  Roger,  404,  408,  410. 
Ericson,  Leif,  and  the  Norse  Sagas,  349 
et  seq. 
Erving,  John,  449,  450. 
Essex  Institute.  88,  373. 
Eustis,  Hon.  William,  LL.D.,  Gov.  of 
Mass.,  119  n. 
Everett,  Hon.  Edward,  LL.D.,  3,  46 
95. 
Everett,  William,  Lilt.  D ,  125.  Re 
marks  by,  on  the  death  of  Edward  A 
Freeman,  421. 
F. 
Falmouth,  Maine,  burned,  411. 
Felton,  Cornelius  C,  LL.D.,  Pres.  of 
Harvard  College,  263  n. 
Fendall,  Philip  R.,  264. 
Field,  Hon.  Walbridge  A.,  LL.D.,  114. 
Fillmore,  Millard,  LL.D.,  Pres.  of  the 
United  States,  106. 
Fiske,  John,  A.M.,  204  n.,  205  n.,  216, 
218,  242,  317,  366.  Elected  a  Resident 
Member,  347.  On  Leif  Ericson  and 
the  Norse  Sagas,  350  et  seq.  Accepts 
membership,  399. 
Fiske,  William,  123. 
Fitch,  John,  364. 
Florio,  John,  303. 
Flynt,  Tutor  Henry,  80. 
Follen,  Rev.  Charfes,  373. 
Folsom,  Charles,  A.M.,  46,  80,  84. 
Forbes,  Rt.  Hon.  Duncan,  344. 
Forbes,  Rev.  Eli,  D.D,  notice  of,  384  n. 
Diary  of,  for  1762,  384-399.  Varia- 
tions in  the  spelling  of  the  family- 
name,  465. 
Forbes,  Deacon  Jonathan,  384  n. 
Forbes,  J.  Murray,  373. 
Forbes,  Robert  Bennet,  373. 
Force,  Peter,  LL.D.,  46. 
Fort  Erie,  battle  of,  33. 
Foster,  Isaac,  144. 
Foster,  William  E.,  216. 
Fox,  Rt.  Hon.  Charles  James,  439. 
Fracastoro,  Girolamo,  305,  306. 
Frame,  Miss  Elizabeth,  prepares  a  list 
of  Micmac  names,  455. 
Francis.  Rev.  Convers,  D.D.,  121-123. 
Francis,  Tench,  341. 
Franklin,  Benjamin,  LL.D.,  79,  340  n., 
342  n.,  411. 
Franklin,  William,  340. 
Frederick,  City  and  County,  Md.,  265, 
266. 
Freeman,  Edward  A.,  LL.D.,  176,  243, 
366,  369,  439.  Death  of,  348.  Re- 
marks on  his  death  by  William  Ev- 
erett, 421   ;  
by  William  W.  Goodwin, 
424. 
Freeman,  Rev.  James,  D.D.,  123,  124. 
Freire,  Johannes,  305. 
Friesland,  Province  of,  description  of  a 
medal  issued  by,  in  recognition  of 
American  Independence,  20. 
Frobisher,  Sir  Martin,  309. 
Frothingham,  Rev.  Nathaniel  L.,  D.D., 
123. 
Frothingham,  Rev.  Octavius  B.,  369. 
Frothingham,  Hon.  Richard,  A.M.,  46, 
81,84,  179  n.,  215,  361,  375. 
Fulham,  Library  of  the  Bishop  of  Lon- 
don at,  
53,  55  n.,  64,  65. 
Fuller,  Rev.  Daniel,  401,  413. 
Fuller,  Mrs.  Hannah,  401. 
 - 522 - 
INDEX.                                              477 
Gage,  Gen.  Thomas,  405,  409,  413. 
Gaines,  Gen.  Edmund  P.,  265. 
Gales,  Joseph,  264. 
Gallaaus,  Philippus,  308. 
Gallipolis,  Ohio,  277 ',  
282. 
Gallison,  John,  A.M.,  author  of  the  Bos- 
ton memorial  on  the  Missouri  Ques- 
tion, 120  n. 
Galloway,  Joseph,  342. 
Gammell,  Prof.  William,  LL.D.,  46. 
Gannett,  Caleb,  A.M.,  123. 
Gardiner,  Dr.  Sylvester,  432. 
Gardner,  Capt.  Christopher,  401. 
Gardner,  Isaac,  32. 
Garland,  Edward,  287. 
Garneau,  Francois  X.,  313. 
Gastaldi,  Giacomo,  305. 
Gaston,  William,  LL.D.,  Gov.  of  Mass., 
91. 
General  Fund,  375,  382. 
Georgetown,  D.  C,  265. 
Germanic  theory  of  the  origin  of  New 
England  towns,  177,  216,  245  et  seq. 
Gerrish,  Col.  Samuel,  403. 
Gilbert,  Sir  Humphrey,  309. 
Gillmore,  Gen.  Quincy  A.,  110. 
Gloucester,  Mass.,  384  n.,  406,  408.  See, 
also,  Cape  Ann. 
Glover,  Rev.  Jose,  138. 
Gomara,  Erancisco  Lopez,  304. 
Gomme,  Laurence,  253,  254. 
Goodell,  Abner  C,  Jr.,  A.M.,  175  n., 
180  n.,  197  n.,  205,  216,  240,  242,  257, 
349,  399,  441.  Letter  on  the  Genesis 
of  the  Massachusetts  Town,  211-214. 
Goodwin,  Rev.  Ezra  S.,  123. 
Goodwin,  Prof.  Henry  M.,  91. 
Goodwin,  William  W.,  D.C.L.,  369. 
Eemarks  by,  on  the  death  of  Edward 
A.  Freeman,  424. 
Gordon,  Rev.  William,  D.D.,  407,  409. 
Gore,  Christopher,  LL.D.,  Gov.  of  Mass., 
123. 
Gorges,  Sir  Ferdinando,  25  n.,  71,  231. 
Gorges,  Capt.  Robert,  25,  190. 
Gorton,  Samuel,  69. 
Goss,  Elbridge  H,  his  Life  of  Paul  Re- 
vere, characterized,  119.  His  request 
to  copy  Copley's  portrait  of  Revere, 
why  it  was  not  granted,  294. 
Gosselin,  Auguste,  313. 
Gouge,  William  M.,  on  Banking,  283, 
284,  286. 
Grahame,  James,  LL.D.,  123. 
Grant,  Col.  James,  401. 
Grant,  Ulysses  S.,  Pres.  of  the  United 
States,  116. 
Graves,  Thomas,  233. 
Gray,  Hon.  Francis  C,  LL.D.,  124. 
Gray,  Hon.  Horace,  LL.D.,  77,  202  n., 
215. 
Gray,  Capt.  Robert,  417-421. 
Green,  Bartholomew,  414. 
Green,  Rev.  John  R.,  LL.D.,  175,  421, 
439. 
Green,  Samuel,  414. 
Green,  Hon.  Samuel  A.,M.D.,  11,  31,  89, 
125,  317,  36'J,  371,  373, 425, 455.  Com- 
municates a  
despatch  from  the  Amer- 
ican minister  in  Holland  relative  to 
some  Dutch  medals,  19.  Remarks  by, 
in  communicating  a  list  of  memoirs 
in  the  Society's  Collections,  121.  Re- 
marks by,  
in  communicating  the  diary 
of  Lawrence  Hammond,  144.  Re- 
marks by,  
in  announcing  the  bequests 
of  Buckminster  Brown  and  William 
W.  Clapp,  315.  Remarks  by,  on  the 
Waters- Winthrop  map,  335.  Submits 
his  report  as  Librarian,  371.  Elected 
Librarian,  383.  Remarks  by,  in  pre- 
senting an  original  letter  by  John 
Tulley,  414.  Remarks  by,  in  present- 
ing a  copy  of  a  rare  sermon  by  Rev. 
Samuel  Davies,  which  contains  a 
striking  allusion  to  Washington,  454. 
Greene,  Gardiner,  435. 
Greene,  George  W.,  LL.D.,  46. 
Greenough,  Mrs.  Abigail,  151,  154,  156. 
Greenough,  Luke,  151. 
Greenough,  William,  151. 
Greenough,  William  W.,  A.B.,  139. 
Greenwood,  Rev.  F.  W.  P.,  D.D.,  123. 
Gregory,  Samuel,  91. 
Grigsby,  Hon.  Hugh  Blair,  LL.D.,  46. 
Griswold,  Deputij  Governor  Matthew,  410. 
Groton,  England,  Gov.  Winthrop's 
Manor  of,  130. 
Groton,  Mass.,  167,  170  n.,  219,  369. 
Guizot,  Francois  P.  G.,  221  n. 
Gulliver,  Prof  John  P.,  91. 
Gutierrez,  Pedro,  298. 
Guyandotte,  Va.,  282,  283. 
H. 
Hagerstown,  Md.,  266,  267. 
Hakluyt,  Rev.  Richard,  63,  83,  308-313. 
His  "  Westerne  Planting,"  edited  by 
Charles  Deane,  75. 
Hale,  Rev.  Edward  E.,  D.D.,  369.  In- 
quiry by,  
respecting  the  Boston  me- 
morial on  the  Missouri  Question,  119. 
Hale,  Hon.  George  S.,  A.M.,  421,  425. 
Hale,  Rev.  John,  narrow  escape  of  his 
family  from  lightning,  148. 
Hall,  Samuel  C,  63. 
Hallo  well,  Lieut.-Col.  Edward  N.,  40. 
Hamilton,  Hon.  Alexander,  LL.D.,  an- 
ecdote of,  
271. 
Hamilton,  Andrew,  2d,  341  n. 
Hammond,  Capt.  Lawrence,  Diary  of, 
145-171.    Physical  Receipts  given  by 
 - 523 - 
478                                               INDEX. 
171,  172.  Account  of  his  wives  and 
children,  150,  151. 
Hampden,  John,  244. 
Hancock,  Hon.  John,  LL.D,  Gov.  of 
Mass.,  19,  120,  319,  418. 
Hancock,  Md.,  266. 
Hannay,  Rev.  Alexander,  D.D.,  100. 
Harding,  Robert,  136. 
Hardwick,  Mass.,  19,  120. 
Harper's  Ferry,  Va.,  267. 
Harris,  Benjamin,  414,  415. 
Harris,  Henry,  376. 
Harris,  Rev.  Thaddeus  M.,  D.D.,  123, 
125. 
Harrisse,  Henrv,  18,  299,  300,  303,  353. 
Harvard  College,  3,  11,  12,  32,  39,  85, 
86,  105,  116,  123,  355,  356,  358  n.,  369, 
384  n.,  414,  418  n.,  429,  430,  435,  449  n. 
Haswell,  Robert,  418,  419. 
Hatch,  Crowell,  417. 
Haven,  Samuel  F.,  LL.D.,  46,  62,  67, 
84. 
Hawthorne,  Nathaniel,  9. 
Hayes,  Joseph  M.,  47. 
Hayes,  Rutherford  B.,  LL.D.,  Pres.  of 
the  United  States,  5,  112,  113. 
Haynes,  Henry  W.,  A.M.,  26,  317,  421, 
425.  On  the  committee  to  examine 
the  Library  and  Cabinet,  335.  Com- 
municates a  
paper  on  Leif  Ericson 
and  the  Norse  Sagas,  349.  Presents 
report  of  the  committee  on  the  Li- 
brary and  Cabinet,  370. 
Hazard,  Ebenezer,  autotype  copies  of 
portraits  of,  given  to  the  Society,  373. 
Hazard,  Willis  P.,  373. 
Hedge,  Levi,  LLD.,  124. 
Heintzelman,  Gen.  Samuel  P.,  107. 
Helm,  John  L.,  289. 
Henry,  Patrick,  125,  126. 
Henry,  Hon.  William  Wirt,  60,  125. 
Herrick,  Rev.  Samuel  E.,  D.D.,  presents 
a  copy  of  "  Memoria  Techniea,"  362. 
Higginson,  Rev.  Francis,  233,  234. 
Hill,  Don  Gleason,  edits  the  Dedham 
Church   Records,  186  n. 
Hill,  Hamilton  A.,  A.M.,  127,  369,  374. 
Hill,  Henry,  347. 
Hill,  Rev.  Thomas,  D.D.,  366.  Death 
of,  127. 
Hill,  Valentine,  133. 
Hillard,  Hon.  George  S.,  LL.D.,  30,  39. 
Hillhouse,  James  A.,  339. 
Hilton,  William  and  Edward,  231. 
Hinckley,  Thomas,  144. 
Hingham,  Mass.,  176,  188,  189,  210. 
"  Historical  Magazine,"  69. 
Historical  Schools,  old  and  new,  243- 
245. 
Hoadly,  Charles  J.,  LL.D.,  296,  400. 
Hoar,  Hon.  Ebenezer  R.,  LLD.,  4,  421. 
Remarks  by,  on  the  death  of  James 
Russell  Lowell,  5. 
Hoar,  Hon.  George  F.,  LL.D.,  89,  106, 
369. 
Hobart,  Rev.  Noah,  338. 
Hobart,  Rev.  Peter,  188  n.,  189. 
Hollister,  Gideon  H,  91. 
Holmes,  Rev.  Abiel,  D.D.,  123. 
Holmes,  Oliver  Wendell,  LL.D.,  9. 
Holmes,  Hon.  Oliver  Wendell,  Jr., 
LL.D.,  40,  366. 
Holyoke,  Edward  A.,  M.D.,  316. 
Homem,  Diego,  306. 
Hook,  Mr.    ,  
266. 
Hooker,  Gen.  Joseph,  108,  109. 
Hoppin,  Prof  James  M.,  91, 
Hosmer,  Rev.  James  K.,  175  n. 
Houghton,  Richard  Monckton  Milnes, 
Lord,  65. 
Houston,  Gen.  Felix,  274,  289. 
Houston,  Gen.  Samuel,  274. 
Howard,'  Prof.  George  E.,  243,  261. 
Howard,  Gen.  Oliver  O.,  108,  109. 
Howland,  John,  50. 
Hoyt,  Joseph  G.,  LL.D.,  91. 
Hubbard,  Hon.  William  J.,  105. 
Hudson  Bay  Companv,  Charter  of,  197, 
198  n. 
Hunter,  Rev.  Joseph,  F.S.A.,  46,  52,  54. 
Huntington,  Ebenezer,  A.B.,  356. 
Huntington,  Gen.  Jabez,  355. 
Huntington,  Gen.  Jedidiah,  355.  Ex- 
tracts from  his  letters  during  the 
siege  of  Boston,  358-360. 
Huntington,  Col.  Joshua,  356.  Ex- 
tracts from  his  letters  during  the 
siege  of  Boston,  351. 
Hunt's  Hill,   Weymouth,  27,  28. 
Hutchins,  Thomas,  364. 
Hutchinson,  Mrs.  Ann,  137. 
Hutchinson,  Peter  ().,  18. 
Hutchinson,  Thomas,  Gov.  of  Mass.,  18, 
19,  69,  403,  449. 
Hyattstown,  Md.,  265. 
I. 
"  Independent,"  New  York,  93. 
Ingersoll,  Hon.  Charles  R.,  92. 
Ingraham,  Joseph,  418  n. 
Inhabitants,   definition   of,    195   et  seg., 
212-214,  240. 
Iowa  University,  92,  101. 
Ireland,  William,  138. 
Irving,  Washington,  LL.D.,  5,  
8,  
9, 35,  36. 
Ives,  Stephen  B.,  A.B.,  96. 
J. 
Jackson,   Andrew,  Pres.  of  the   United 
States,  3,  283,  286,  290. 
Jackson,  Gen.  Thomas  J.  ("   Stonewall  "), 
108. 
 - 524 - 
INDEX.                                              479 
Jamaica,  Island  of,  earthquake  in  the, 
163,  164. 
Jameson,  Lieut.-Col.  David,  452. 
"  Jeff/'  a  mulatto  boatman,  278-280. 
Jefferson,  Thomas,  Pres.  of  the  United 
States,  126,290,  291,365,416. 
Jeffersonville,  Indiana,  286. 
Jenkins,  Rev.  Jonathan  L.,  D.D.,  338  n. 
Jenks,  Rev.  Henry  F  ,  elected  a  mem- 
ber of  
the  Council,  383. 
Jenks,  Rev.  William,  D.D.,  123,  125. 
Jesup,  Gen.  Thomas  S.,  265. 
Johnson,  Capt.  Edward,  author  of  "  The 
Wonder- Working  Providence,"  71. 
Johnson,  Isaac,  244,  259,  260. 
Johnson,  James,  140,  143. 
Johnson,  Col.  Richard  M.,  268,  293. 
Johnson,  Robert,  letter  of,  descriptive 
of  Boston  in  1801,  456. 
Johnson,  Samuel,  LL.D.,  273. 
Johnston,  Alexander,  LL.D.,  175  n.,  216, 
217  n.,  242. 
Johnston,  Gen.  Joseph  E.,  107. 
Joy,  Charles  H.,  417  n. 
Judaeis.  Cornelius  de,  308. 
K. 
Kalb,  Baron  Johann  von,  inscriptions  on 
the  monument  to,  at  Camden,  S.  C, 
345,  346. 
Keene,  N.  Porter,  28. 
Kendrick,  Capt.  John,  417. 
Keteltas,  Peter,  339. 
Keyes,  Gen.  E.  D.,  107. 
King's  Cove,  Weymouth,  27-29. 
Kinnersley,  Eben,  340. 
Kirkland,  Rev.  John  T.,  DD.,  123. 
Knox,  Gen.  Henry,  412,  453. 
Kohl,  John  G.,  LL.D.,  46,  68,  84,  85, 
301,  308. 
Koontz   (Coonts),  Capt.    ,  
277,  278, 
285. 
L. 
Lafayette,  Gilbert  Mothier,  Marquis  de, 
345,  373,  453. 
La  Luzerne,  Anne  Cesar  de,  453. 
Lambard,  William,  258. 
Lambeth,  Library  of  the  Archbishop  of 
Canterbury  at,  59. 
Langdon,  Rev.  Samuel,  D.D.,  Pres.  of 
Harvard  College,  356. 
La  Roche,  Marquis  de,  314,  315. 
Latham,  Williams,  376. 
Law,  Mrs.  Jonathan,  338. 
Lawrence,  Hon.  Abbott,  LL.D.,  123. 
Lawrence,  Abbott,  A.M.,  on  the  com- 
mittee to  examine  the  Treasurer's 
accounts,  335.     Their  report,  382. 
Lechford,  Thomas,  134  n.,  138  n.,  139. 
Ledyard,  John,  416. 
Lee,  Gen.  Robert  E.,  107,  108. 
Lee,  Col.  William  Raymond,  39-41. 
Leicester  Academy,  32,  34  n. 
Leisler,  Jacob,  Joseph  Dudley's  connec- 
tion with  the  trial  of,  157. 
Lenox,  James,  LL.D.,  46,  48,  52,  58,  62, 
63. 
Leverett,  John,  450. 
"  Liberia  Herald,"  264,  265. 
Librarian.     See  Green,  Samuel  A. 
Library  of  the  Society,  gifts  to,  11,  118, 
144,  296,  316,  331,  347,  348,  362,  384, 
438.  Report  of  the  Committee  on  the 
Library  and  Cabinet,  370.  Accessions 
for  the  Year  ending  March  31,  1892, 
371.  Annual  Report  of  the  Librarian, 
ib.    List  of  Donors  to,  467. 
Liens,  Nicolas  des,  307. 
Liliie,  Samuel  S.,  17. 
Lincoln,  Abraham,  Pres.  of  the  United 
Stares,  114. 
Lincoln,  Gen.  Benjamin,  123,  418. 
Lincoln,  Edward  W.,  11. 
Lincoln,  Levi,  LL.D.,  Gov.  of  Mass.,  11, 
84. 
Lincoln,  Hon.  Solomon,  188  n. 
Lincoln,  Solomon,  A.M.,  elected  a  mem- 
ber of  
the  Council,  383. 
Lincoln,  William,  A.B.,  123. 
Linschoten,  Jan  Hugo,  308. 
Liscomb,  Major  Humphry,  death  of, 
147. 
Lithgow,  Col.  Arthur,  104. 
Little,  Brown,  &  Co.,  Messrs.,  55. 
Livermore,  George,  A.M.,  46,  48,  53,  68, 
82,  83,  87,  375. 
Livingston,  Gov.  William,  339. 
Lodge,  Hon.  Henry  Cabot,  A.M.,  60, 
369. 
Lok,  Master  Michael,  311. 
London,  England,  5,  8,  63. 
London,  Bishop  of  53. 
Long,  John  D.,  LL.D.,  Gov.  of  Mass., 
113. 
Long  Island  Historical  Societv,  88,  100. 
Longfellow,  Henry  W.,  LL.D.,  2,  4,  9, 
46,  119.  Memoir  of,  to  be  written  by 
Horace  E.  Scudder,  6. 
Lord,  Arthur,  A.M.,  appointed  on  the 
committee  to  examine  the  Treasurer's 
accounts,  335.     Their  report,  382. 
Lord,  Hon.  Otis  P.,  LL.D.,  96. 
Lossing,  Benson  J.,  LL.D.,  366. 
Lothrop,  Isaac,  123. 
Lothrop,  Rev.  Samuel  K.,  D.D.,  30,  46. 
Lothrop,  Thornton  K.,  A.M.,  appointed 
on  the  committee  to  nominate  officers, 
335 
Louisville,  Ky.,  282,  286-290. 
Lowell,  Abbott  Lawrence,  A.M.,  ap- 
pointed to  
write  a  memoir  of  James 
 - 525 - 
480                                               INDEX. 
Russell  Lowell,  11.  On  the  committee 
to  examine  the  Library  and  Cabinet, 
335.     Their  report,  370. 
Lowell,  Rev.  Charles,  D.D.,  124. 
Lowell,  Edward  J.,  A.M.,  317.  Elected 
a  member  of  the  Council,  383. 
Lowell,  Hon.  James  Russell,  D.  C.L.,  6,  
9, 
46,  105,  197  n.,  210  n.,  263.  Remarks 
on  his  death,  by  the  President,  1 ;  
by 
Charles  Francis  Adams,  3 ;  
by  E.  R. 
Hoar,  5 ;  
by  H.  E.  Scudder,  6.  Me- 
moir of,  
to  be  written  by  A.  Lawrence 
Lowell,  11. 
Lowell,  Hon.  John,  LL.D.,  H.  U.  1760, 
77. 
Lowell,  Hon.  John,  LL.D.,  H.  U.  1786, 
125. 
Ludlow,  Roger,  259,  260. 
Lunt,  Rev.  William  P.,  D.D.,  46,  123. 
Luxford,  James,  128,  130-134,  136,  140. 
M. 
Macaulay,  Thomas  Babington,  Lord, 
439. 
McCleary,  Samuel  F.,  A.M.,  remarks 
by,  in  presenting  various  gifts  to  the 
Library,  449. 
McClellan,  Gen.  George  B.,  107. 
McKean,  Rev.  Joseph,  D.D.,  122,  124. 
McKenzie,  Rev.  Alexander,  D.D.,  ap- 
pointed a  
member  of  the  committee 
for  publishing  the  Proceedings,  399. 
Mackintosh,  Sir  James,  275,  439. 
McLaughlin,  Andrew  C,  369. 
Madison,  James,  Pres.  of  the  United 
States,  34. 
Madrid,  Spain,  4,  5. 
"  Magazine  of  American  History,"  60. 
"  Magazine  of  New  England  History," 
23. 
Magoun,  Rev.  George  F.,  D.D.,  92. 
Maidston,  John,  363. 
Maine,  Sir  Henry  S.,  cited,  176,  179. 
Maine  Historical  Society,  75,  88. 
Major,  Richard  Henry,  F.S.A.,  46,  301, 
366. 
Manchester,  Mass.,  troubles  in  the  Con- 
gregational Church  at,  96. 
Mann,  Sir  Horace,  8. 
Mann,  Mr.    ,  
266,  267. 
Mansfield,  Col.  John,  408. 
Marcy,  Hon.  William  L.,  34. 
Marietta,  Ohio,  274. 
Marsh,  Rev.  Ebenezer  G.,  124. 
Marsh,  Rev.  Jonathan,  402. 
Marshall,  Chief  Justice  John,  290. 
Marshall,  Col.  Thomas,  318. 
Martin,  Hon.  Augustus  P.,  373. 
Martyr,  Peter,  311. 
Maryland  Historical  Society,  88. 
Massachusetts,  Genesis  of  the  Town  and 
Development  of  Town-meeting  Gov- 
ernment in,  
papers  on,  by  Charles  F. 
Adams,  174-211,  441-449;  by  A.  C. 
Goodell,  Jr.,  211-214  ;  by  Mellen 
Chamberlain,  214-242  ;  by  Edward 
Charming,  242-263. 
Massachusetts,  Colony  Charter  of,  197- 
202,  445.  Her  contribution  to  the 
advancement  of  the  human  race,  447- 
449. 
Massachusetts  Historical  Society,  new 
volume  of  the  Proceedings.  10.  Serial 
numbers  of  the  Proceedings,  143,  383, 
465.  Papers  contributed  to  the  Pro- 
ceedings of,  
by  Charles  Deane,  80. 
List  of  Memoirs  in  the  Collections  of, 
121-125. 
Massachusetts  Historical  Trust  Fund, 
374,  382.  Income  of  the,  374,  381  ;  
to 
be  applied  toward  the  publication  of 
the  Belknap  Papers,  10. 
Mather,  Rev.  Cotton,  D.D.,  52,  56  n.,  70, 
71. 
Mather,  Rev.  Increase,  D.D.,  138. 
Matson,  Thomas,  136. 
Maverick,  Samuel,  217  n.,  219,  231,  260. 
His  description  of  St.  George's  fort, 
cited,  69. 
May,  Sir  Thomas  Erskine,  173. 
Mayer,  Brantz,  46. 
"  Mayflower,"  voyage  of  the,  50. 
Meade,  Gen.  George  G.,  117. 
Measles,  prevalence  of,  in  Boston,  in 
1687-8,  145. 
Medford,  Mass.,  235. 
Medina,  Pedro,  304. 
Meetings  of  the  Society,  1,  11,  118,  144, 
296,  331,  348,  384,  438.  Annual  Meet- 
ing, 348. 
Mellen,  Rev.  John,  Jr.,  122. 
"  Memorial  History  of  Boston,"  26,  43, 
76,  190  n.,  204  n.,  218  n. 
Mercator,  Gerard,  299,  307  et  seq. 
Merchants  National  Bank,  Boston,  378. 
Merriam,  George  S.,  A.M.,  elected  a 
Resident  Member,  465. 
Merriam,  Family  of,  of  Massachusetts, 
369. 
Merrill,  Benjamin,  LL.D.,  124. 
Merrill,  Hon.  James  C,  A.M.,  122. 
Merriman,  Mrs.  Helen  Bigelow,  375. 
Merrymount,  26. 
Metellus,  Johannes  M.,  308. 
Micmac  names,  a  list  of,  prepared  by 
Miss  Elizabeth  Frame,  455. 
Mill,  James,  198  n. 
Minnesota  Historical  Society,  21. 
Minor,  Lucian,  notice  of,  263  n.  His 
diary  of  a  journey  to  the  West  in 
1836,  264-29*4. 
Minot,  Hon.  George  Richards,  A.  M., 
124. 
 - 526 - 
INDEX.                                               481 
Minot,  William,  LL.D.,  120  n.,  376. 
Minot,  William,  Jr.,  LL.B  ,  
376. 
Missouri  Question,  119,  120n. 
Mitchell,  Hon.  Nahum,  A.M.,  122. 
Molineaux,  Emerie,_309. 
Monocasy,  river,  265. 
Moody,  Ladi)  Deborah,  297. 
Moody,  Sir  Henry,  297. 
Moody,  Rev.  Silas,  46. 
Moody,  Silas,  47. 
Moore,  George  EL,  LL.D.,  death  of,  59, 
384. 
Morrell,  Rev.  William,  88. 
Morris,  Rev.    ,  
269,  271. 
Morris,  Gov.  Robert  H  ,  
343. 
Morse,  John  T.,  Jr.,  A.M.,  369. 
Morton,  George,  90,  103. 
Morton,  Chief  Just  ice  Marcus,  105. 
Morton,  Marcus,  LL.D.,  Gov.  of  Mass., 
91. 
Morton,  Nathaniel,  47,  50,  51,  55. 
Morton,  Thomas,  author  of  "  The  New 
English  Canaan,'"  26,  82,  199,  227  n., 
231. 
Motley,  Hon.  John  Lothrop,  LL.D.,  8, 
46,  65. 
Mount  Wollaston,  26. 
"Mourt's  Relation,"  91,  103. 
Miinster,  Sebastian,  299,  304,  308 
Murdoch,  John,  269,  274,  275,  289. 
Myritius,  Johannes,  312. 
N. 
Narragansett  Patent,  36,  37,  71. 
"Narrative  and  Critical  History  of 
America,"  74. 
Nash,  Gilbert,  25  n.,  28,  189  n.,  190  n. 
Nassau  Hall,  Princeton,  N.J.,  diagram 
of,  343. 
National  Bank  of  Commerce,  Boston, 
378. 
National  Union  Bank,  Boston,  378. 
Nebraska  Bill,  protest  against,  by  New 
England  ministers,  94,  95. 
Neff,  Mr.    ,  
267. 
Neill,  Rev.  Edward  D.,  D.D.,  60. 
Netherlands,  description  of  a  medal 
issued  by  the,  on  the  recognition  of 
American  Independence,  20 ;  to  com- 
memorate the  treaty  of  Commerce 
and  Navigation  with  the  United  States, 
ib. 
New  Bedford,  Mass.,  95. 
New  England,  2, 16,  215,  229-231,  239  n. 
James  Russell  Lowell's  appreciation 
of  life  and  character  in,  5.  Eminent 
literary  men  born  in,  9. 
"  New  England  Historical  and  Genea- 
logical Register,"  50,  51,  69,  414. 
New  England  Historic,  Genealogical 
Society,  88,  100,  435. 
Newgate,  John,  136.  Deed  from  Gov. 
John  Winthrop  to,  139. 
Newport,  Copt.  Christopher,  64. 
Newport,  U.  /.,  331,  344. 
Newport  Historical  Society,  88. 
Newton,  Col.    ,  
17. 
Newton,  Sir  Isaac,  9. 
Newton,  Gen.  John,  107,  108. 
New  York,  8,  10,  339,  344. 
New  York  "  Herald,"  cited,  116. 
New  York  Historical  Society,  21,  88. 
Noel,  Jacques,  311,  314. 
Norse  Sagas,  349  et  seq. 
"  North  American  Review,"  61,  71,  73  n. 
Norton,  Charles  B.,  his  "  Literary  Ga- 
Norton,    zette," 59. 
Charles  E.,  LL.D.,  263,  369. 
Nourse,  Hon.  Henry  S.,  A.M.,  369. 
Noviomagians,  an  antiquarian  club,  63. 
Cecum,  Rev.  Samson,  393,  394. 
Odlin,  John,  136. 
Old  Colony  Historical  Society,  100. 
Old  Colony  Railroad  Co.,  328,  378. 
Oldham,  John,  232. 
Oliver,  Fitch-Edward,  M.D.,  Cabinet- 
keeper,  371.  Submits  his  annual 
report,  371.  Elected  Cabinet-keeper, 
383. 
Ord,  Gen.  Edward  O.  C,  111. 
Ortelius,  Abraham,  307-309,  312. 
Ossory,  Anne  Liddell,  Countess  of  8. 
Oviego  y  Valdez,  Gonsalo  Fernandez 
de,  305. 
Oxford,  England,  63. 
Oxford,  Samuel  Wilberforce,  Bishop  of, 
53,54, 
P. 
Page,  Alfred  B.,  371. 
Paige,  Rev.  Lucius  R.,  D.D.,  346,  465. 
Regularity  of  his  attendance  at  the 
meetings  of  the  Society,  7.  Remarks 
by,  with  reference  to  John  Wheeler, 
one  of  the  leaders  in  Shavs's  Rebel- 
lion, 19,  120.  Letter  from,'  347.  Re- 
marks on  the  formation  of  the  first 
board  of  selectmen  in  Massachusetts, 
360. 
Paine,  Robert  Treat,  LL.D.,  318. 
Paine,  Stephen,  209. 
Palfrey,  Francis  William,  A.M.,  memoir 
of,  by  John  C.  Ropes,  31,  39-44.  His 
birth  and  education,  39.  Serves  in 
the  War  of  the  Rebellion,  39,  40.  His 
character  as  an  officer,  41.  His  mili- 
tary and  literary  tastes,  42.  His  his- 
torical work,  43.  His  ill  health,  ib. 
His  death,  44. 
61 
 - 527 - 
482                                               INDEX. 
Palfrey,  John  Gorham,  LL.D.,  39,  43, 
46,  79. 
Palfrey,  Mary  Ann,  39. 
Palfrey,  Col.  William,  39,  42. 
Palmer,  Simeon,  93. 
Parish,  organization  and  powers  of  the, 
in  England,  222-225,  250-256. 
Parker,  Henry  Tuke,  A.M.,  63. 
Parker,  Hon.  Joel,  LL.D.,  46,  72,  201  »., 
202  n.,  205,  215,  216,  234. 
Parker,  Nicholas,  138,  139. 
Parker,  Capt.  Oliver,  400. 
Park  man,  Rev.  Ebenezer,  386,  388,  396, 
3y7,  399. 
Parkman,  Francis,  LL.D.,  8,  313.  Gift 
of  manuscripts  to  the  Library,  348. 
Elected  Vice-President,  383.  Re- 
marks on  his  historical  writings,  by 
the  President,  438. 
Parkman,  Samuel,  387,  389,  396. 
Parmentier,  Jean,  303. 
Parsons,  Gen.  Lewis,  92. 
Parsons,  Theophilus,  LL.D.,  46. 
Parsons,  Thomas  W.,  M.D.,  9. 
Peabody,  Rev.  Andrew  P.,  D.D.,  369. 
His  reminiscences  of  a  visit  to  Eng- 
land witli  Charles  Deane,  63-66. 
Peabody  Fund,  36,  375,  377,  382.  In- 
come of,  
375,  377,  380,  381. 
Peabody,  George,  LL.D.,  34,  375. 
Peck,  Prof.  William  D.,  A.M.,  124. 
Pecksuot,  killing  of,  25. 
Pemberton,  Thomas,  124. 
Peninsular  Campaign  in  Virginia,  40, 
43. 
Penn,  James,  136,  139. 
Perkins,  Augustus  T.,  A.M.,  memoir  of, 
by  William  H.  Whitmore,  426-437. 
His  birth,  426.  His  ancestry,  427. 
His  reminiscences  of  his  grandfather, 
432-434.  His  business  life,  435.  His 
interest  in  history  and  art,  ib.  His 
character,  436,  437. 
Perkins,  Charles  C,  A.M.,  429  n. 
Perkins,  Edmund,  426,  427. 
Perkins,  James,  427. 
Perkins,  James,  Jr.,  428,  429. 
Perkins,  Nathaniel,  M.D.,  318. 
Perkins,  Samuel  G.,  429  n. 
Perkins,  Col.  Thomas  H.,  428-434. 
Perkins,  Major  William,  427. 
Peter,  Rev.  Hugh,  134,  244. 
Peverel,  Copt.,  362.  Letter  of,  describing 
the  condition  of  England  in  1659, 363. 
Phelps,  Rev.  Austin,  D.D.,  93. 
Phi  Beta  Kappa  Society,  86,  369. 
Philadelphia,  Penn.,  8,  340-343. 
Phillipps,  Sir  Thomas,  76,  301.  Owned 
manuscript  of  Hakluyt's  "  Westerne 
Planting,"  75. 
Phillips  Creek,  Weymouth,  26,  27,  29. 
Phips,  Sir  William,  154,  161,  163,  164, 
166,  167. 
Pickering,  John,  LL.D.,  124. 
Pickering  Papers,  calendar  of,  370. 
Pickering,  Hon.  Timothy,  LL.D.,  355. 
Pierce,  Edward  L.,  his  Memoranda  about 
Dartmoor  Prison  and  the  Hutchinson 
manuscripts,  17. 
Pierce,  Franklin,  Pres.  of  the  United 
States,  34. 
Pierce,  Hon.  Henry  L  ,  
325. 
Pierce,  Rev.  John,  D.D.,  124.  His  esti- 
mate of  
Thomas  A  spin  wall's  part  at 
Commencement,  32. 
Pintard,  John  Marsden,  417,  418. 
Pitcairn,  Major  John,  357. 
Pittsburg,  Penn.,  273. 
Plymouth,  Mass.,  24,  25,  29,  57,  58,  97, 
189,  231. 
Piympton,  Mass.,  90. 
Pocahontas,  Charles  Deane's  examina- 
tion of  
the  story  of,  59-61. 
Poe,  Edgar  A.,  9. 
Poignand,  Louise  Elizabeth,  37. 
Poole,  William  F.,  LL.D.,  edits  John- 
son's "  
Wonder-working  Providence," 
71. 
Poor,  Mrs.  Mary  W.,  124. 
Popelliniere,  Le  Seigneur  de,  308. 
Popham  Colony,  68,  72. 
Porter,  Rev.  Edward  G.,  A.M.,  remarks 
by,  in  communicating  a  diary  of  Ezra 
Stiles,  338,  344.  Elected  a  member  of 
the  Council,  383.  Remarks  by,  on  the 
discovery  of  the  Columbia  River, 
416. 
Potter,  William,  297. 
Powderhorn  Hill,  Chelsea,  138,  140. 
Pratt,  Phineas,  47. 
Prence,  Gov.  Thomas,  51. 
Prescott,  William  H.,  LL.D.,  8,  35, 
124. 
President.     See  Ellis,  George  E. 
"  President,"  steamer,  35. 
Pressense,  Rev.  Edmond  de,  D.D.,  366. 
Price,  Ezekiel,  124. 
Prince,  Charles  A.,  A.B.,  his  tribute  to 
Augustus  T.  Perkins,  436,  437. 
Prince,  Rev.  John,  LL.D.,  124. 
Prince,  Rev.  Thomas,  50,  53,  64,  144, 
459. 
Princeton,  N.  J.,  340,  343. 
Proctor,  Edward,  449,  450. 
Ptolemy,  Claudius,  299,  305,  309. 
Puritans  in  Massachusetts,  226,  227. 
Putnam,  Rev.  George,  D.D.,  329. 
Q. 
Quadus,  Mathius,  308. 
Quincy,  Mass.,  22.     See  also  Braintree. 
Quincy,  Edmund,  A.M.,  memoir  of,  to 
be  written  by  Charles  Francis  Adams, 
6. 
 - 528 - 
INDEX.                                              483 
Quincy,  Hon.  Josiah,  LL.D.,  3,  46, 
120  ».,  123. 
Quincy,  Josiah,  Jr.,  H.  U.  1763,  355. 
"  Quincy  Patriot,"  23. 
R. 
Kamusio,  Gian  Battista,  303,  305,  306. 
Bandolph,  Edward,  76,  138,  149,  152. 
Randolph,  Hon.  John,  of  Roanoke,  292. 
Recording  Secretary.  See  Young,  Ed- 
ward J. 
Reeves,  Arthur  M.,  349. 
Revere,  John,  A.M.,  295. 
Revere,  Col.  Paul,  79, 80,  294.  Life  of,  by 
E.  H.  Goss,  characterized,  118.  Por- 
trait of,  
by  J.  S.  Copley,  described, 
119  Why  it  has  not  been  copied, 
294. 
Revere,  Major  Paul  J.,  39. 
Rhode  Island  Historical  Society,  88. 
Rice,  Rev.  Asaph,  390-395. 
Richard  Frothingham  Fund,  375,  382. 
Income  of,  375,  381. 
Richards,  Major  John,  death  of,  165. 
Rio  Grande  Western  Railroad  Co.,  377. 
Ripley,  Rev.  Samuel,  123. 
Rives,  Hon.  William  C,  290. 
Robbins,  Rev.  Chandler,  D.D.,  46,  84, 
87,  125,  460,  461,  464. 
Roberval,  Jean  Francois  de,  303,  305, 
314. 
Robinson,  Col.  Beverley,  453. 
Robinson,  Rev.  John,  58,  101. 
Robinson,  Martin,  288. 
Robinson,  Rowland  E.,  369. 
Robinson,  William,  288. 
Rogers,  Rev.  Ezekiel,  131. 
Rogers,  Prof.  Henry,  267. 
Rogers,  Robert,  267. 
Rogers,  Prof.  William  B.,  267. 
Ronde,  Rev.  Lambertus  de,  339. 
Ropes,  John  C,  LL.B.,  31.  Memoir  of 
Francis  W.  Paifrey,  by,  39-44.  Me- 
moir of  
Charles  Devens,  bv,  104-117. 
Rothschild  &  Sons,  Messrs.  N.  M.,  34. 
Rotz,  Jean,  299,  304. 
Roxbury,  Mass.,  95,  210,  235,  400,  401, 
404-406,  408,  409. 
Ruggles,  Rev.  Benjamin,  386,  387,  389. 
Rumney  Marsh,  allotments  atr  136. 
Ruscelli,  Girolamo,  306. 
Russell,  Joseph,  416  n. 
Russell,  William  E.,  LL.B.,  Gov.  of 
il/ass.,418. 
Rvece,  Robert,  336,  337. 
S. 
Sabine,  Hon.  Lorenzo,  A.M.,  46. 
Sackett's  Harbor,  British  attack  on,  33. 
Sagadahoc,  231. 
Sage,  William  N.,  91. 
Salem,  Mass.,  212,  231-235. 
Salisbury,  Stephen,  A.M.,  89. 
Saltonstall,  Hon.  Leverett,  LL.D.,  124. 
Saltonstall,  Sir  Richard,  244,  259,  260, 
337,  338. 
Sanborn,  Mrs.  Frank  B.,  417  n. 
Sanderson,  Deacon  Robert,  361. 
Sandys,  Edwin,  58. 
Sanford,  John,  136. 
Sanford,  Hon.  John  E.,  A.M.,  31.  Me- 
moir of  
Henry  M.  Dexter  by,  90-103. 
Savage  Fund,  375,  382.  Income  of,  371, 
375,  382. 
Savage,  Hon.  James,  L,L.D.,  46,  52,  55, 
83,  84,  120  n.,  122,  129,  130,  140,  296, 
297,  414,  459,  461,  464. 
Sayre,  Stephen,  358. 
Scott,  Benjamin,  F.R.A.S.,  366. 
Scott,  John  Morin,  339. 
Scott,  Major- General  Winfield,  36,  265. 
Scrooby,  England,  52,  65. 
Scudder,  Horace  E.,  A.M.,  369.  Re- 
marks by,  on  the  death  of  James 
Russell  Lowell,  6.  Appointed  to 
write  a  memoir  of  Henry  W.  Long- 
fellow, ib.  Elected  a  Member  of  the 
Council,  383. 
Seal  of  the  Council  for  New  England, 
79. 
Sears,  Hon.  David,  A.M.,  374. 
Second  National  Bank,  Boston,  378. 
Sedgwick,  Gen.  John,  40,  107. 
Sewall,  Rev.  Joseph,  374. 
Sewall,  Chief  Justice  Samuel,  2,  78, 167  n. 
Shaw,  Hon.  Lemuel,  LL.D.,  201  n. 
Shawneetown,  Illinois,  263  n.,  293. 
Shays,  Daniel,  11,  19,  120. 
Shea,  John  Gilmary,  LL.D.,  366.  Death 
of,  331. 
Sheafe,  Sampson,  attacked  on  Boston 
Common,  147. 
Shedd,  Rev.  W.  G.  T.,  D.D.,  92. 
Sheldon,  Col.  Elisha,  452. 
Shepherd,  Forrest,  267-269. 
Shippen,  Edward,  3d,  342. 
Shippen,  William,  M.D.,  342. 
Shippen,  William,  Jr.,  M.D.,  340. 
Shirley,  Gov.  Thomas,  450. 
Shurtleff,  Hon.  Nathaniel  B.,  M.D.,  46, 
84. 
Sicily,  island  of,  424. 
Silliman,  Prof  Benjamin,  LED.,  268. 
Sims,  Thomas,  a  fugitive  slave,  105. 
Slafter,  Rev.  Edmund  F.,  D.D.,  317 
369. 
Slavery  in  Massachusetts,  Charles 
Deane's  examination  of  questions 
connected  with,  77,  78. 
Small-pox,  prevalence  of  the,  in  1677, 
168-171. 
Smith,  Buckingham,  74. 
 - 529 - 
484                                              INDEX. 
Smith,  Charles  C,  A.M.,  12,  66,  74,  87, 
460,  462,  464,  465.  Motion  by,  with 
regard  to  the  Income  of  the  Massa- 
chusetts Historical  Trust  Fund,  10. 
Remarks  by,  in  communicating  a 
memoir  of  Thomas  Aspinwall,  30. 
Memoir  of  Thomas  Aspinwall  by,  32- 
38.  Remarks  by,  with  regard  to  Rev. 
Dr.  Eliot's  letters  to  Lord  Buchan, 
127.  Communicates  a  letter  from 
A.  C.  Goodell,  Jr.,  on  the  Genesis  of 
the  Massachusetts  Town,  211.  His 
Annual  Report  as  Treasurer,  374-382. 
Elected  Treasurer,  383.  Appointed 
on  the  committee  for  publishing  the 
Proceedings,  399.  Remarks  by,  in 
communicating  a  copy  of  the  diary  of 
Rev.  Benjamin  Boardman,  400. 
Smith,  Capt.  John,  58-64. 
Smith,  Joshua,  451-453. 
Smith,  Ralph,  239  n. 
Smith,  Toulmin,  178  n.,  179,  223,  224 
252-254. 
Smith,  Dr.  William,  341. 
Smith,  Judge  William,  339. 
Smith,  Gen.  William  E.,  107,  108,  110, 
111. 
Smith,  William  Henry,  373. 
"  Southern  Literary  Messenger,"  263  n. 
Sparks,  Jared,  LL.D .,  
3,  46,  282. 
"  Sparrowhawk,"  the,  58,  64. 
Spencer,  Herbert,  cited,  202  n. 
Spencer,  Gen.  Joseph,  400,  402  et  seq. 
Spooner,  William  J.,  A.M.,  124. 
Spurious  Reprints  of  Early  Books,  57  n. 
Stafford,  Sir  Edward,  310. 
Standish,  Capt.  Miles,  25,  28,  48  n.,  51, 
57. 
Stanhope,  Sir  John,  57. 
Stanley,  Mr.    ,  
283,  284. 
State  National  Bank,  Boston,  378. 
Stearns,  Charles,  274,  276-280,  285. 
Stephens,  David,  14,  15. 
Stevens,  Henry,  F.S.A.,  46,  48,  63,  71. 
Stiles,  Rev.  Ezra,  D.D.,  405.  Diary  of 
a  Journey  to  Philadelphia  in  1754, 
338-344.  Income  of,  in  1760,  344. 
Presents  received  by,  345. 
Stone,  Rev.  A.  L.,  D.D.,  93. 
Stone,  Miss  Ellen  A.,  373,  374. 
Storrs,  Rev.  Richard  S.,  D.D.,  92,  100. 
Sfory,  William  W.,  D.C.L.,  105. 
Stowe,  Mrs.  Harriet  Beecher,  94. 
Stowell,  Francis,  419. 
Stubbs,  Rt.  Rev.  William,  D.D.,2Q2n., 
252-255. 
Sullivan,  Hon.  James,  LL.D.,  125. 
Sullivan,  Hon.  William,  LL.D.,  33. 
Sumner,  I/on.  Charles,  LL.D.,  95. 
Sumner,  Gen.  Edwin  V.,  40,  107. 
Sumner,  George,  48. 
Sutcliffe,  Dr.  Matthew,  120. 
Swiss  Constitution,  121. 
Tacitus,  Caius  Cornelius,  246,  247. 
Tarbell,  Thomas,  170. 
Tarbell,  Thomas,  Jr.,  170. 
Tate  and  Brady's  Hymns,  to  be  sung  in 
the  public  religious  services  at  Brook- 
field,  388. 
Taunton,  Mass.,  318-320. 
Tavistock  Parish  Records,  cited,  255, 
256. 
Taylor,  Rev.  Rufus,  96. 
Taylor,  Za chary,  Pres.  of  the  United 
States,  106. 
Teneriffe,  11,  12.  . 
Tennent,  Rev.  Gilbert,  341. 
Testu,  Guillaume  le,  306. 
Thacher,  Don.  George,  A.M.,  87. 
Thacher,  George,  Pres.  Iowa  University, 
92. 
Thacher,  Rev.  Peter,  D.D.,  125. 
Thacher,  Rev.  Samuel  C,  122. 
Thacher,  Rev.  Thomas,  192. 
Thayer,  Nathaniel,  A.M.,  374. 
Thayer,  Hon.  Samuel  R.,  373.  Despatch 
from,  descriptive  of  some  Dutch  med- 
als, 20.  Thanks  of  the  Society  voted 
to,  22. 
Thomas,  Hon.  Benjamin  F.,  LL.D.,  84. 
Thomas,  Edward  I.,  369. 
Thomas,  Joshua,  125. 
Thompson,  David,  231. 
Thornton,  John  Wingate,  A.M.,  53. 
Ticknor,  George,  LL.D.,  8,  35,  46,  120  n. 
Ting,  William,  136. 
Tinker,  John,  130,  133. 
Tocqueville,  Alexis  de,  175,  180  n. 
Torbert,  Col.  Alfred  T.  A.,  108. 
Torrey,  Henry  W.,  LL.D.,  464. 
Townsend,  Miss  Mary  Prince,  375, 
376. 
Treasurer.     See  Smith,  Charles  C. 
Trelawny  Papers,  80. 
Troup,  Mrs.  Frances  B.,  120. 
Trumbull,  Rev.  Benjamin,  D.D.,  459. 
Trumbull,  Col.  John,  355. 
Trumbull,  Gov.  Jonathan,  458,  459. 
Trumbull  Papers,  56,  87,  370. 
Tryon,  Gen.  Sir  William,  355. 
Tudor,  Hon.  William,  A.M.,  120  n.,  125. 
Tudor,  William,  Jr.,  A.M.,  125. 
Tulley,  John,  a  maker  of  almanacs, 
414.  Letter  of,  to  Benjamin  Harris, 
415. 
T upper,  Major  Benjamin,  408,  410. 
Tuscarora  Indians,  visit  of  Rev.  Eli 
Forbes  to  the,  384,  391-395. 
Tuttle,  Charles  W.,  A.M.,  145. 
Tuttle,  Julius  II.,  371. 
Twichell,  Rev.  Joseph  H.,  180  n. 
Twombly,  Mrs.  Abhy  B  ,  
419. 
Tyler,  Rev.  Moses  Coit,  LL.D.,  his  "  His- 
tory of  
American  Literature,"  cited, 
 - 530 - 
INDEX.                                             485 
60,  62.   His  memoir  of  Patrick  Henry, 
characterized,  126. 
Tyndale,  Dearie,  129-131. 
Tyng,  Dudley  Atkins,  LL.D.,  124,  125. 
U. 
Ulpius,  Euplirosyims,  299. 
Union  Stock  Yard  and  Transit  Co.,  375. 
United  States,  Dutch  medals  relating  to 
the,  20. 
Upham,  Hon.  Charles  W.,  A.M.,  124. 
Upham,  William  P.,  A.M.,  remarks  on 
the  value  of  the  Winthrop  map  of 
Massachusetts,  30.  Deciphers  a  part 
of  Lawrence  Hammond's  diary,  158. 
Usher,  Lieut,  Gov.  John,  163. 
V. 
Valla rd,  Nicholas,  301,  304. 
Van  Euren,  Martin,  Pres.  of  the  United 
States,  3,  292. 
Vancouver,  Capt.  George,  419,  420. 
Vane,  Sir  Henry,  the  younger,  136-139 
244. 
Vassall,  William,  37. 
Veazie,  William,  his  reprint  of  Calef  and 
Mather's  "  Wonders  of  the  Invisible 
World,"  56  n. 
Victoria,  Queen  of  
England,  9. 
Vienna,  Austria,  4. 
Vigfusson,  Gudbrand,  351. 
Virginia,  Charles  Deane's  interest  in  the 
.history  of,  67. 
Virginia  Historical  Society,  88. 
Vopellio,  Gaspar,  299. 
w. 
Waddington,  Rev.  John,  46,  64. 
Wade,  Capt.  Nathaniel,  150. 
Wadsworth,  Lieut.  Amos,  death  and 
funeral  of,  411. 
Waleott,  Henry  P.,  M.D.,  366.  Accepts 
Resident  Membership,  6. 
Walford,  Thomas,  219,  231. 
Walker,  Rev.  George  L.,  D.D.,  180  n. 
Walley,  Hon.  Samuel  H.,  H.  U.  1826, 
327. 
Walpole,  Horace,  Earl  of  Orford,  paper 
by  Robert  C.  Winthrop  on  his  refer- 
ences to  
America,  7-10.  His  liberal 
principles,  10. 
Walpole,  Sir  Robert,  his  interest  in 
American  affairs,  10. 
Walter,  Major  James,  349,  399. 
Warham,  Rev.  John,  217  n  ,  
260. 
Warren,  Gen.  Gouverneur  K.,  111. 
Washburn,  Hon.  Emory,  LL.D.,  46,  60. 
Washburn,   Hon.  John    D.,    LL.B.,   re- 
marks by,  on  the  Swiss  Extradition 
Treaty  with  the  United  States,  121. 
Washburn,  William  B.,  LL.D.,  Gov.  of 
Mass.,  112. 
Washington,  D.  C.,  263  n.,  264,  265.    Sug- 
gestion for a  national  gallery  at,  10. 
Washington,  George,  Pres.  of  the  United 
States,  355,   360,  407,   412,  450,   453, 
454,  455. 
Washington,  P.  G.,  264. 
Waters,  Edwin  F.,  gift  to  the  Library 
from,  384. 
Waters,  Henry  F.,  A.M.,  26,  335,  337, 
338. 
Waterston,  Robert,  47,  49. 
Waterston,  Pray,  &  Co.,  Messrs.,  47,  49. 
Watertown,  Mass.,  235,  262,  445,  446. 
Watson,  Marston,  125. 
Watts,  Rev.  Isaac,  D.D.,  his  Hymns  and 
Spiritual  Songs  to  be  sung  in  the  pub- 
lic religious  services  at  Brookfield, 
388. 
Watts,  Francis  O.,  A.M.,  105. 
Way,  Aaron,  138. 
Webb,  Christopher,  Sr.,  209. 
Webster,  Hon.  Daniel,  LL.D.,  9,  119, 
120  n  ,  
126. 
Webster,  Noah,  LL.D.,  459. 
Wednesday  Evening  Club,  38. 
Weitzel,  Gen.  Godfrey,  111. 
Wells,  J.,  373. 
Wessagusset  Settlement,  paper  by 
Charles  Francis  Adams  on  the  site 
of,  23-29.  Remarks  by  Henry  W. 
Haynes  on  the  same  subject,  29. 
Westminster  Abbey,  9. 
Weston,  Thomas,  23  et  seq.,  231. 
Weymouth,  31ass.,  23  et  seq.,  176,  189- 
192,  231. 
Wheatley,  Phillis,  80. 
Wheeler,  John,  one  of  the  leaders  in 
Shays's  Rebellion,  19,  120. 
Wheeling,  Ohio,  271-273,  277. 
Wheelwright,  Rev.  John,  137. 
Wheelwright,  Josiah,  322. 
White,  Rev.  John,  of  Dorchester,  Enq., 
232.  ^ 
White,  Peregrine,  57,  373. 
Whitefield,  Rev.   George,  340. 
Whiting,  Lieut.  John,  450.  Letter  of, 
on  Arnold's  treason,  451. 
Whiting,  Timothy,  450. 
Whitmore,  William  H.,  A.M.,  425.  Me- 
moir of  Augustus  T.  Perkins  by, 
426-437. 
Whitney,  Rev.  Peter,  125. 
Whittesley,  Col.  Charles,  365. 
Wiekham,  William,  339. 
Wilcox,  J.  A.  J.,  373. 
Willard,  Joseph,  A.M.,  123. 
Willard,  Paul,  450. 
William  Amory  Fund,  376,  381. 
 - 531 - 
486                                                INDEX. 
William  Winthrop  Fund,  375,  382.  In- 
come  of,  372,  375,  382. 
Williams,  Hon.  Elias  H.,  92. 
Williams,  Rev.  Roger,  73,  79. 
Williamson,  Mr.    ,  
276,  278,  279. 
Willis,  Hon.  William,  LL.D.,  46. 
Wilson,  Rev.  John,  24. 
Winchester,  Rev.  Samuel  G.,  270,  271. 
Windsor,  Conn.,  180  n. 
Wingate,  Hon.  Paine,  346. 
Wingfield,  Edward,  59,  60,  64. 
Winnisimmet,  231. 
Winslow,  Edward,  134.  His  "Good 
News/'  cited,  25.  His  "  Hypocrisie 
Unmasked,"  cited,  69. 
Winslow  Papers,  54. 
Winsor,  Justin,  LL.D.,  1, 19,  31,  243, 369, 
399,  421,  425.  Communicates  some 
notes  by  Edward  L.  Pierce  about 
Dartmoor  Prison  and  the  Hutchinson 
manuscripts,  17.  Remarks  by,  on  an 
Italian  copy  of  the  first  letter  of  Co- 
lumbus, 18.  Memoir  of  Charles 
Deane  by,  45-89.  Presents,  in  be- 
half of  
Charles  E.  Norton,  a  manu- 
script diary  of  a  journey  to  the  West 
in  1836,  kept  by  Lucian  Minor,  263. 
Communicates  a  paper  on  the  Results 
in  Europe  of  Cartier's  Explorations, 
298.  Remarks  by,  in  presenting  a 
photographic  copy  of  Fitch's  map  of 
the  Northwest  Territory,  364.  Elected 
Corresponding  Secretary,  383. 
Winthrop,  Adam,  143. 
Winthrop,  Deane,  136,  138. 
Winthrop,  Francis  Bayard,  459. 
Winthrop,    Hon.    James,    LL.D.,   123, 
125. 
Winthrop,  John,  Gov.  of  Mass.,  12,  23 
et  seq.,  48,  55,  76,  90,  195,  232,  235, 
244,  258-262,  335-337,  445, 459.  La  tin 
letter  to,  from  his  son  Samuel,  13. 
Paper  on  his  estate,  by  Mellen  Cham- 
berlain, 127-140.  Inventory  of  his 
estate  in  1649,  140-143. 
Winthrop,  John,  Jr.,  Gov.  of  Conn.,  13, 
296,  362,  363,  462. 
Winthrop,     Mrs.     Margaret,     128-131, 
136. 
Winthrop,  Mrs.  Martha,  143. 
Winthrop,  Hon.  Robert  C,  LL.D.,  37, 
65,  74,  82,  86,  419.  Improved  condi- 
tion of  his  health,  7.  Paper  by,  on 
Horace  Walpole's  references  to  Amer- 
ica, ib.  Remarks  by,  on  the  Life, 
Correspondence,  and  Speeches  of 
Patrick  Henry,  125.  Remarks  by,  in 
communicating  the  inscriptions  on 
the  monument  to  Baron  De  Kalb, 
345.  Personal  reminiscences,  346, 
347. 
Winthrop,   Robert  C,    Jr.,   A.M.,   89. 
Remarks    by,    in    communicating    a 
paper  by  Robert  C.  Winthrop  on 
Horace  Walpole's  references  to  Amer- 
ica, 7.  Remarks  by,  in  communicat- 
ing a  
Latin  letter  written  from  Tene- 
riffe,  by  Samuel  Winthrop,  11. 
Communicates  a  letter  giving  par- 
ticulars of  
trade  with  Barbadoes  in 
1674,  13,  16-17.  Remarks  by,  on  a 
letter  written  in  1653  bv  Thomas 
Adams  (King  Tom),  296-297.  Resolu- 
tion proposed  by,  requesting  the 
Council  to  submit  to  the  Society  their 
conclusions  with  regard  to  the  elec- 
tion of  
members,  298.  Remarks  by, 
in  communicating  a  letter  of  Capt. 
Peverel,  describing  the  condition  of 
England  in  1659,  362-364.  Calls  at- 
tention to  
the  retirement  of  the  Com- 
mittee on  the  Winthrop  Papers  after 
many  years' service,  and  explains  some 
changes  in  the  method  of  publication 
which  are  now  in  contemplation,  457- 
465. 
Winthrop,  Samuel,  12.  Latin  letter 
from,  to  Gov.  John  Winthrop  in  1645, 
13.     Translation  of  same,  14. 
Winthrop,  Stephen,  15  n.,  131,  136, 
139. 
Winthrop,  Hon.  Thomas  L.,  LL.D.,  125, 
459. 
Winthrop  v.  Lechmere,  case  of,  457. 
Winthrop,  Maj.  Gen.  Wait,  457. 
Winthrop,  William,  375. 
Winthrop,  William  Henry,  460. 
Winthrop  Papers,  127.  Part  VI.  laid 
upon  the  table,  457.  Particulars  of 
the  gradual  publication  of  selections 
from  these  manuscripts,  both  by  this 
Society  and  by  other  persons,  with 
some  account  of  what  remains  to  be 
done,  457-465. 
Wirt,  Hon.  William,  126. 
Witchcraft  delusion,  161-163. 
Wituwamut,  killing  of,  25. 
Wolcott,  Roger,  AM.,  submits  a  report 
from  the  Council  on  membership,  332. 
Appointed  on  the  committee  to  nomi- 
nate officers,  335.  Communicates 
some  extracts  from  the  letters  of 
Jedidiah  and  Joshua  Huntington,  354. 
Submits  the  Annual  Report  of  the 
Council,  366.  Vote  of  thanks  to, 
383. 
Wood,  William,  his  "New  England's 
Prospect,"  cited,  24 ;  edited  by 
Charles  Deane,  72. 
Woodruff,  Mr.    ,  
278-280,  287. 
Woods,  Rev.  Leonard,  Jr.,  D.D.,  46, 
75. 
Wooster,  Gen.  David,  355. 
Wright,  Richard,  22. 
Wynne,  Thomas  H.,  M.D.,  46. 
Wytfiiet,  Cornelius,  308. 
 - 532 - 
INDEX.                                               487 
Y. 
Yale  University,  91,  92,  101,  102,  338, 
356,  400. 
Yendell,  Samuel,  416  ».,  418. 
York,  Maine,  attacked  by  the  French 
and  Indians,  160. 
Young,  Rev.  Alexander,  D.D.,  47,  48, 
50-52,  125,  190  n.,  200  n.,  231  n.,  233  n. 
His   "  Chronicles    of   the    Pilgrims," 
cited,  25. 
Young,  Rev.  Edward  J.,  D.D.,  1.  Elected 
Recording  Secretary,  383.  Appointed 
a  member  of  the  committee  for  pub- 
lishing the  Proceedings,  399.  Re- 
marks by,  
in  communicating  a  letter 
descriptive  of  Boston  in  1801,  455. 
Z. 
Zaltieri,  a  Bolognese,  307. 
 - 533 - 
 - 534 - 
 - 535 - 
 - 536 - 
 - 537 - 
 - 538 - 
 - 539 - 
*>«*** 
OT# 
M^Qftte 
*p*  «sr 
^'<^X« 
J^Cs^; 
ft  2; 
 - 540 - 
?v 
^0 
$# 
<-•  V:';.0/ 
.      flSC 
or  %/>d 
 - 541 - 
9&mm 
£&<%' 
-t>-          i 
^^ 
 - 542 - 
