 - 1 - 
LIBRARY
^t^^^Sfy
1893
 - 2 - 
 - 3 - 
 - 4 - 
i
 - 5 - 
 - 6 - 
"-1
 - 7 - 
 - 8 - 
 - 9 - 
 - 10 - 
 - 11 - 
 - 12 - 
 - 13 - 
 - 14 - 
 - 15 - 
 - 16 - 
SECOND REPORT
Record Commissioners
CITY OF EOS TON;
CONTAINING THE
BOSTON  RECORDS,  1634-1660,  AND THE BOOK  OF  POSSESSIONS.
SECOiVn KIHTIOX.
BOSTON:
ROCKWELL AND CHURCHILL, CITY PRINTERS,
No. 39  Alien STREET.
18 8 1.
 - 17 - 
^^itno-^
 - 18 - 
F13.1
[Document 46—1881.]             p ij
CITY OF i...&;J BOSTON.
In Boaed of Aldermen, April 30, 1877.
Ordered, That the Record Commissioners be  authorized
to publish a second report, to contain a transcript of the first
volume of the TownRecords and of the Book of Possessions,
to be printed, bound, and distributed in the same manner as
their first report, at an expense not exceeding one thousand
dollars, to be charged to the appropriation for printing.
Passed.   Sent down for concurrence.   May 3,  came up
concurred.   Approved by the Mayor, May 7, 1877.
Atrue copy.
Attest
;
JOHN T. PRIEST,
Asst. City Clerk.
^^nmn
Uiy^
SECOND REPORT OF THE RECORD
COMMISSIONERS.
To His Honor the Mayorand the City Council of Boston: —
It will  be understood,  from, the terms of the preceding
vote, that  no  detailed  report  is  to be expected from the
Record Commissioners at the present time.   Acting under
the instructions given them, they have endeavored to present
faithful transcripts of the two earliest volumes of the records
of the town of Boston,  viz.,  of the first  Book of Records
proper, and of the Book of Possessions.
The value  of the  first  volume  of Records consists not
only in the information given as  to  the names and posses-
sions of the first inhabitants, but also in its indications of the
extent of the  powers  exercised  by the  town authorities.
Inasmuch as the progress of town government on the New
England plan is, and always w^ill be, of great interest to the
student of social  science, it must be worth while to present
 - 19 - 
IV                City Document No. 46.
to the public the full and exact statement of the proceedings
of the greatest town in the colon3^
_
As to the Book of Possessions, it  is  sufficient to say tiiat
this must be the foundation of all titles to real estate
withui
the old town limits,  and that,  therefore, it  was, on many
accounts, most desiral)le  that it  should be made accessible
and permanent by receiving- the honors of print.
The records of the town of Boston, now in the custody ot
the City Clerk, may be described as follows :  —
Ten volumes, of which the lirst  is  here prmted, contam-
ino-  the acts of  the town from  1634  to  1822.   The hrst
volume (1634-1660) contains also the acts ot the Selectmen ;
the second volume (1660-1728) contains  the  acts  of
the
Selectmen from 1660 to 1701 ;    and thcncetorward it  records
only the proceedings of the town.  In 1701 the system was
established of recording the doings of the Selectmen sepa-
rately, and twenty-three volumes contain their records
until
182'^
There are a few miscellaneous volumes, as the  Book of
Possessions, etc.    In two large volumes, also  have  been
bound up the miscellaneous papers »\t|^«^
^f.^t^^l^^""; X/
City Clerk, covering the periods ot  1634-171;)
1^17-1734
After  this  date  the papers are still  arranged in hies and
bundles.                         ,                       ,                           ^   i  i.      rii^
Recently the Record Commissioners have reported to ills
Honor the Mayor the necessity of taking some measures to
assort  and  preserve  the records of the old courts
of the
County of Sutl'olk prior to the Revolution.   In spite  ot the
neo-lect which these tiles  have sutiered for many years
it  is
highly probable that they contain documents of prime
im-
portance to the history of our town.
It may be proper to mention that very little  has
yet been
done towards publishing the history of Boston.   The mag-
nitude of the task has probably prevented its  acc-omp
ish-
ment; and the deplorable deticiencies in the records, which
it is the task of the Commissioners to
repair, may also mue
discoura-(>d  enthusiasts.   A brief  sketch of the
principal
contributions to our local history may be of some service
In the third volume of the Collections ot the _I\Iassuchu-
setts  Historical  Society,  for  1
7
<)4, there an^s printed  (pp.
241-304) " A Topographical and Historical Description
ot
Boston, 1794," by Thomas Pemberton.
Not much can be expected of a work of sixty pages on so
large a subject.
 - 20 - 
Second Report of Record Commissioners.     v
Next we find the following book :  —
"A Topographical and Historical Description of Boston,
from the first settlement of the Town to the  present period ;
with some accoimt of its Environs,   By Charles Shaw, Esq.,
Member of the American Antiquarian Society
Boston:  printed  and  published by Oliver Spear.   1817."
[12mo, pp. 311.  Woodcuts.  S. Dearl)orn, del., A. Bowen,
Sc.   New State House, Faneuil Hall,  Christ  Church, Old
State  House,  Julicn's,  Milk St.,  Triangular  Warehouse,
Town Dock, Fac-simile of First entry in Town records.]
This work is based upon Pemberton's Description,  with
the addition of some material taken from the earlier writers.
A few extracts from the Town records are given, l)ut  not
enough to make the book a distinct authority.   The most
valuable  portion is  the additions to  Pemberton's sketches,
showing the changes between 1796 and 1817.
Next we may notice the following :  —
/    " AHistory of Boston, the metropolis of Massachusetts,
from its origin to the present period ;   with some Account of
the  Environs.   By Caleb H. Snow,  M.D.  Embellished
with engravings.   Boston :     published by Abel Bowen, No.
2  Congress-Square,  Congress-street.   Printed  by Munroe
and Francis, 128 Washington-street, 1825."  8vo, pp. 400.
[It contains 29 engravings and wood-cuts, of which a list  is
given.   Pp. 395-400 were occupied with the Index ;    but
soon after an Appendix was published, being pp. 393-4 re-
printed, and continued as pp. 395-424.]
In 1828 a second edition was published ;  but apparently it
consisted only of the  sheets  of the  first  edition  and the
Appendix, with a new Index (pp.  425-427) and new title-
page.  It seems that Abel Bowen was the proprietor of the
book, and that he issued proposals for a subsequent edition,
but never carried his idea into execution.   In 1829 Bowen
published his "Picture of Boston" (2d edition,  1833; 3d
edition, 1838), the parent of numerous guide-books.
The next book claiming our attention bears the following
title :  —
"A Municipal History of the Town and City of Baston,
during two centuries.   From September 17, 1G30, to Sep-
tembei' 17, 1830.   By Josiah Quincy.  Boston: Charles C.
Little and James Brown.  1852."  8vo, pp. 444.
 - 21 - 
Yi               City Document No. 46.
This is substantially the history of Boston, under its char-
ter as a city, from 1822 to 1830.   The ilhistrations are, a view
of the Qm'ncy Market, and a plan of the same, showing the
streets  and estates  taken,  altered,  and laid out in  conse-
quence of that construction.
In 1852 the late  Samuel G. Drake commenced the publi-
cation, in parts, of the History of Boston, and in 1856 issued
the volume, with the following title :  —
" The History and Antiquities  of Boston, the  Capital of
Massachusetts and  Metropolis  of New England,  from its
Settlement in 1630, to the year 1770.   Also an Introductory
History of the Discovery and Settlement of New England,
with notes, critical  and illustrative.   By Samuel G. Drake,
A.M.,  &c.,  &c.   Boston: published  by Luther  Stevens,
186 Washington street.   1856."  8vo, pp. 840.
It will be no disparagement to this  very useful work to
say that it  was planned on too large  a scale for  success.
The author received a very flattering request from the City
Government to continue  its  publication, but was compelled
by the infirmities of age to decline.
In 1871 the City Government gave official sanction to the
following-named work of Mayor Shurtleff: —
" A Topographical and Historical Description of Boston.
By Nathaniel B. Shurtleft'.   Boston :    printed by request of
the City Council, 1871."   8vo, pp. 720.
This was in no sense a history of the town, but rather a
collection of essays relating to various historical topics.   Dr.
Shurtleff's  familiarity with certain  topics,  as  those of the
early descriptions of the town, the maps, the  graveyards,
etc.,  etc.,  renders  this  book one  of  great  interest  and
value.
Lastly,  we may note Hales'  "Survey of Boston," 1821,
pp. 156, and Samuel Adams Drake's " Old Landmarks and
Historic  Personages of Boston," 1873, pp.  484, as  formal
contributions to  our local  history.   Of course, there have
been many minor pul)lications  devoted to limited subjects,
notaljly histories  of  the various  religious  societies,  and
many public documents issued by order of the City Govern-
ment.
 - 22 - 
Second Report of Record Commissioners.    vii
It will be seen, however, that Boston still remains without
a complete history in print, and that, therefore, the publica-
tion of any portion of its records is not unnecessary.
It is also to be remembered that Boston now comprises at
least throe other ancient towns, each with records and a his-
tory of its  own.  These may well demand in  the future a
proper amount of attention, and require proportionate puljli-
cation.
It is  hoped that the City Government will  authorize the
Record Commissioners to continue the work of publishing
the records ;   of course not in  full,  but by means of such
judicious selections as will afford valuable information about
our predecessors.
Owing to the nature of the work, the duty of editing the
First Book of Records, and of transcribing  the  Book of
Possessions has devolved exclusively upon the senior Com-
missioner.
Respectfully submitted,
WILLIAM H. WHITMORE,
WILLIAM S.  APPLETON,
Record Commissioners.
PREFACE TO THE SECOND EDITION.
The first edition of this report being out of print, the City
Council has ordered the Commission«rs to reprint and stereo-
type the volume.  Advantage has been taken of this action
to cause a careful revision of the whole book to be made.
No important errors were discovered, but quite a number of
trifling corrections have been made.  As the two portions of
the book were disconnected, it has seemed best to issue them
as separate parts, so that those persons who wished only the
Book of Possessions could have it  complete.   The seventh
report, now nearly finished, will  contain the Boston records
from A.D. 16G0 to 1700.
In addition to the list of histories of Boston may now be
cited "The Memorial History of Boston, including Suffolk
County,  Massachusetts,  IGoO-lbSO.   Edited  by  Justin
Winsor, librarian of Harvard University.   In four volumes.
 - 23 - 
VIII                City Document No. 46.
Issued under the business superintendence of the projector,
CkrenceF. Jewett, Boston.  James E. Osgood & Co.,  1880."
Vol.  1,  pp. 596, and vol.  2,  pp.  577, have ah-eady been
issued, and this completed work will be a grand contribution
to local history.   It is not a continuous history, but a collec-
tion of essays by various authors, presumed to  be specially
familiar with the topics discussed.
William H. Whitmore,
William S.  Appleton,
Record Commissioners.
Boston, September 1,  1881.
 - 24 - 
BOSTON TOWN RECORDS.
Note. —It is intended that the following pages shall be
an exact transcript of the original record, with the exception
that abbreviations peculiar to written documents are herein
printed in  full.    That is, the form '"y"''  for "the" "y"' for
"that" "w"^" for "with" "&" for "and," are  confessedly
notthe forms used in printed documents of the date of these
records.   Hence, although  it  is  intended  to  preserve  all
peculiarities of spelling, a retention of these contracted forms
of writing would only unnecessarily add to the difficulty of
using this transcript.
The pagination of the original volume is  inserted in our
text in brackets.
Every portion of the original is copied, except those mar-
ginal notes which are simply indicative of the full record in
the text.   No use can be found for such notes which would
in any degree compensate for the additional cost of printing.
This edition is printed from a copy made by W. B. Trask,
Esq., and has been compared with a copy made in 1855 by
Mr. Morse for the  City Government, as well as with the
original record.
W. H. W.
[1.]  1634.  Moneth 7th, daye 1.   Jo. Winthrop, Wm.Codding-
ton, Capt. Underbill, The. Ohuer, The.  Lenerett, Giles  Firmin,
Jo. Coggeshall, Wm. Peirce, Robt. Hardinge, Wra. Breuton.
Whereas it  hath been founde that-muche damage hath allreadye
happened by laying of stones and logges near the bridge and land-
inge  place,  whereby diverse  boats  have been much bruised, for
preventing of  such harmes for tyme to come, it  is  ordered that
whosoever shall unlade any stones, timber or logges where the same
may not be plainly seen  at  highc water, shall  sett up a pole or
beacon to give notice thereof upon paine that whosoever shall faile
so to doe, shall make full  recompense for all  such damage as shall
liappen to any boats or other vessels by occasion of such stones,
tymber or logges, the same to be recovered by wa^-e of Action at
the Court ;      and this order to be in force from this da3'e forward
being only a declaration of the Common Lawe therein.
It is also ordered that no person shall leave au}' fish or garbage
neere the said Bridge or common landing  place betweene the 2
Creekes whereby' any anoyance ma}* come to the people that pass
 - 25 - 
2                 City Document No. 46.
that way, upon paine to forfeit for every such offence five shilHngs,
the same to be levj'ed by distresse of the goods of the offender
;
and this order to be off force from the fourth da3-e of this month
and so forward.
And for the better execution of these  ordei's  tire  aforenamed
Giles Firmin is  appointed overseer of the said landing place, to
give notice to such strangers and others as come hither with boats,
and to take knowledge of all  offences committed and to lev3'e the
penaltyes which shalbe forfeited.   Andif after notice shalbe given
by the  said  overseer to any people that shall have any tymber,
logges or stones lye without such pole or beacon, he shall not take
away the same or sett up such pole or beacon, the said offender
shall (after making recompense to the party damnified if an^^ dam-
age happen) forfeit to the towne for every daye the same offence
shall continue, five shilUngs, to be levyed %distresse as before.
Moneth 8th, daye 6th.   At a general meetinge upon public notice
given the 5th daye of the last weeke. It was ordered and agreed as
Iblloweth: Imps. Rich. Bellingham, Esq., and J. Cogan, merchant,
were chosen in  the place  of  Giles  Firmin, deceased, and Ilbt.
Harding, now in Virginia, to make up the 10 to manage the aft'aires
of the towne.
Item :    Jo. Coggeshall, Wm. Colburne, Samuel Cole, Wm. Bren-
ton, Tho. Grnbb, together with Wm. Cheescborrowe, the constable,
are deputed to make a rate for the levyinge of 401b assessed upon
the towne as the first pajunent of a greater sume b^' order of the last
General Court.
Jo. Coogan, Tho. Matson and Ni. Willis are chosen to serve as
jurors at the next Court of Assistants.
The 10th day of the 9th moneth, Novemb. 1634.   At a generall
meeting upon public notice given the day before, it was ordered and
agreed upon, viz., Imprymis that Hogg Iland shalbe letted out unto
the inhabitants and freemen of this towne according to the number
of names in every family by John Coxall, William Brenton and
John Sannford, and that none shall further fell  any wood there
nntill the same bee lotted out.
Item :    that Edmund Quinse}', Samuell Wilbore, William Boston,
Edward Hutchinson the elder,  and Will. Cheesebrough, the con-
stable, shall make and assess all  these rates, A'izt., a rate of301b
to M'. Blackston, a rate for the cowes keeping, a rate for the goates
Iceeping and other charges in rambe goats al)out them and for losse
in  common [hue illcgii)le, but in the duplicate made in 1855 it  is
said to be —" and to make a rate for the 3'oung cattle and cows-
keeper at Muddy River."]
[2.]   10th moneth, day 8th.
At a general meeting upon public notice.
Imprimis, it was ordered that M'. Willson the Pastor (in lieu of
his land granted him at the north river by raestick which he should
passe over to the towne of Boston) should have so much laud at
mount wooleston at his election, and after so much as shalbe his
portion of other lands belonging to the towne to be layd him out
 - 26 - 
Boston Town Records, 1634.             3
so neere his other lands at mount woolaston as maj- be for his must
conveuiency.
18th of the same moneth.
Att a generall meeting upon publique notice.
Imprimis, it  is  agree! that M''. Winthrop. M'.  Coddington, M^
Bellingham, M^ Cotton, M''. Ollyver, M". Colborn and Willm Bal-
stone shall have power to devide  and dispose of all  such lands
belonging to the towne (as are not yet in the lawfull possesion of
any particular persons) to the inhabitants of the towne according to
the Orders of the Court, leaving such portions in Common for the
nse of newe Commers, and the further benifitt of the towne, as in
theire discretions they shall  thiuke fitt ;     the Hands hyred by the
towne to be also included in this Order.
9th of the 12th moneth, 1634.
Att a generall meeting upon publique notice.
Imprymis, it is agreed b}' generall consent that all the inhabitants
shall plant eyther upon sucli ground as is  alreadie broken up or
inclosed in the neck or else upon the ground at Noddles Island
from M^ Maverickes graunt, and that ever^' able man fitt to plant
shall have allowed him twoe acres to plant on ;     and for evcr}^ able
youth one acre to be allotted  out by M''. Hutchinson, M''. Cogan,
M^ Sampford and William Cheesbrough and M"". Brentou, or any
three of them.
Item :    That every man shall make his fences sufficient for all his
planting ground on the  necke upon paine  that if  any losse doe
come for defect therein, that damage shall be satisfyed b}^ such upon
whose fence  the  breach  shalbe, unless  it  doe  come by unruly
cattell, and that then such as are owners of them shall, after warn-
ing given unto them, satisfie  for all  after damages by their said
unruly cattell.   All the fenses to bee made sufficient  before the
7th day of the second month, and the}^ to bee looked unto b}" our
brother Grubb and brother Hudson for the new feild, our brother
Pennyman and brother Colborne for the feild by him, our brother
Penn and brother Belcher for the fort feild.
[In margin] upon pa3'ne of 4s.  for  every [offence],   brother
Everill and brother Matson for mylne feild  and M'. Wilkes.
The 23d of the last moneth, 1634;
Att a generall meeting upon publique notice.
Imprymis, it is agreed by generall consent that all barren cattell
whatsoever (except such as are constantly imployed in draughte)
and weaned caulves 20 Weekes ould andWeaned ma3'le kidds shalbe
kept abroad from off the necke upon penaltie for every one unput
away within a weeke after warning lis.  \\d.  for everj- weeke not
put away ;    and our brethren, John Samford, William Cheesbrough
and William Boston to take care for the observing of this order.
Item :    That there shalbe a little  house built, and a sufficientl}'
payled yard to lodge the Cattell in of nights att PuUeri po^nit necke
before the 14th da}- of the next second moneth.
Item :   That noe swine above 1 2 weeke ould shalbe suffered to goe
att libertie on the necke, but kept up in yards, upon penaltie for
 - 27 - 
4              City Document No. 46.
ever}^ swine otherwise suffered, xiicL  for every day soe taken, and
this order also to bee looli;ed  unto bj' the aforesaid brethren, and
they to looke out and appoint keepers for them, and to see them
payd for their soe keeping the swine to bee put from of the necke
before the first of the next month, or else to keepe them up in their
yards under the penaltie afforesaid.
The 23d of the 1st moneth, 1635.
Att a generall mectinge upon publique warning.
Imprymis :    It is  agreed, by generall consent, that the overseers
of the tenses of the severall feilds shall see to the makeing of such
styles and gates as may bee needful! for every feild, and brother
Wilebore to see to the gate and style  next unto Roxburie, all of
them to bee done before the affores'd 7th day of the 2d moneth, the
styles and gates for Coraon high wayes to be made out of publique
charge, forth of the Cunstables hand, and the pryvate styles  and
gates  to bee made at the charge upon the lands in ever}- feild
proportionablie for every [_acre?'] ;     upon payne for ever^^ the feilde
not soe done by the  1 day of the 3d moneth, 20s. to be forfe3'ted
by the overseers thereof.
Item :     That whereas the wood vipon the neck of land towards
Roxburie hath this last winter beene disorderly cutt up and wasted,
whereby many of the poore Inhal)itants are disappointed of reliefo
they might have had there in after and needfnll t^'mes, now it  is
generally agreed that  M''.  Treasurer,  M'.  Bellingham, and M'.
William Hutchinson, with the three Deacons, shall consider whoe
have beene faultie herein, and sett downe what restitution of Wood
imto the poore, such shall make according to theire severall propor-
tions allotted by the maior part of them six.
Item :    That whosoever at au}^ publique meeting shall fall  into
pryvate conference, to the hinclefing of the publique businesses,
shall forfeit for ever^^ such offence 12cZ., to be paid into the Cun-
stables hand for publique use.
[3.]  Att the same Generall meeting on the said 23d da}^ of the
1 moneth, 1035.
Item :     It is generally agreed that noe Wood shalbe felled at any
of the Islands, nor elsewhere, untill  they bee lotted out,  but att
Muddy Ryver, Dorchester necke, or Noddles Island.
Item:  That all  the wood, as 3-et  left upon the necke of land
towards Roxburie, shall bee gathered up, and layd or heaped in
P3'les  from foyling of the ground, before the 7th of the next 2d
moneth, upon the forfcyture of Gs. for every load left undressed up
for every Weeke afterwarde, to bee payd, by those that f(^led the
trees, into the Cunstables hands for publique use.
The 13th of the 2d moneth, 1G35.
Att a Generall meeting upon publique notice.
Imprymis :     It is agreed, by generall consent, that our Pastor, M'.
•      John Wilson, shall have libertie  to improve what ground may bee
for him att Mount Woollystone, with free reserving unto him his
graunt at Misticke. until his cominge home, for further agreement
with the Inhabitants.
 - 28 - 
Boston Town Kecords, 1635.             5
Item :     That all  the  diye cattle  that are put unto our brother
William Cheesbrough, for keeping att Pullea poynt nec^ke, untill
the 1st of the 9th moueth, shalbe at the rate of 5s. a head unto
him.
Likewise it  was then generally agreed upon, that our brother
Philemon Pormont, shalbe intreated to become scholemaster, for
the teaching and nourtering of children with us.
Also, that our brother, Pichard Fairbanke, shalbe intreated to
take the Cowes to keeping that are upon the neck ;     and in case he
cannot then our brother, Thomas Wardall, to be intreated there-
unto.
The 8th of the 6th moneth, 1635.
Nicholys Willys was Chosen a Cunstable for this following yeare,
and hath taken his oath accordingly.
The 30th of the 9th moneth (called November), 1635.
Att a generall meeting upon pul:)lique notice.
Imprymis :         It  is  agreed  that  noe  further  allotments  shalbe
graunted unto any new comers, but such as may be likely to be
received members of the Congregation.
Item :     That none shall  sell their houses or allotments to any
new comerp, but with the consent and allowance of those that are
appointed Allottors,
Item :     That all  such as have allotments for habitations allotted
unto them shall build thereon before the first  of the first  month
next called March, or else it  shall be in the power of the allotters
to dispose of them otherwise.
Item :    That M'. William Hutchinson, M'. William Colborne and
M^ William Brenton shall sett pryces upon all cattell comodities,
victualls and labourers and Workmen's Wages and that noe other
prises or rates shalbe given or taken.
Item :    That none of the members of this congregation or inhabi-
tants among us shall sue one another at the lawe before that M'.
HenryVane and the twoe Elders M"". Thomas OUyver, and Thomas
Leveritt have had the hearing and des3'ding of the cause if they
cann.
The 4th of 10th moneth, 1635.
Att a Generall meeting upon publique notice.
Imprymis :      It  is  agreed that noe manner of Cattell,  neyther
cowes,  gelt   beast,  horse,  swine  or  goates  shalbe  kept  or
suffered to goe at libertie  on the inward necke from the middle of
the second [month] called Aprill untill the latter end of Harvest.
Item :     That M^ William Brenton and M"". John Sampford [shall
appoint] where and what manner of fence shalbe made betweene
the [planting grounds ;]  and also to appoint ever}' man that shall
have any new all[otment of planting] ground upon the necke, how
much of the said fence [he shall make and to view and] allow of
the sufficiency  thereof, or else they are not [to plant their allot-
ments.]
Item :     That in regard of the unequall disposing of the [planting
 - 29 - 
6                  City Document No. 46.
ground all iotteheretof] d re it  is  now agreed by genrall consent
[that none of the  inhabitants  shall]  be accounted to have any
[estate of inheritance  on the  planting ground] upon the  necke,
save onely in theire house plotte, gardens [and yards, untill]  the
towne shall take [order for a more equal disposing thereof amongst
them].*
[4.]   Item :     Whereas the greatest part of the ground at Mount
Woollistone intended to have beene given from the Inhabitants to
our Pastor, M^ John Wilson, iu leiwe or exchange for his farme
at  Misticke,  have  prooved  to  belong  unto the  Indyans  an4
others, whose interest therein he hath beene forced to purchase.
The Inhabitants doe therefore relinquish all  claime unto his  said
land at Misticke, and doe farther confirme unto him his interest in
his  said land att  Mount WoUistone, with  further  allowance  to
have by way of purchase from the Indyans and others or other-
wise,  soe  much of the  upland  ground within or about his said
grounds there as may make him up  a Convenient farme there.
The 14th of the 10th moneth, 1635.
Att a generall meeting uppon publique notice.
Imprymis :    It is  agreed, by generall  consent that M^ William
Coleborne, M''. WilUiam Aspynwall, M^ John 8ampford,Winiam
Balstone and Richard Wrigiit, shall, in  the behaife of the towne,
goe and talvc viewe at Mount Woollistone, and bound out there
what may bee sufBcient for M^ William Coddington and Edmund
Quinsey to have for their particular farmes there, and accordingly
as they five  or foure of them shall agree upon to stand, and the
same to be entered in this booke.
Item :     It is agreed that the said five men, or foure of them, shall
lay out at Muddy Ryver a sufficient allotment for a farme for our
Teacher, M"". John Cotton.
Item :     It is  agreed that M''.  William Colborne shall  have his
proportion of ground for a farme unto him laid outt at Muddy River,
ncare unto and about his house which he hath there built, b}' the
other foure before mentioned, viz., William Aspynwall, John Samp-
ford, William Balstone and Richard Wright, or three of them.
Item: That the two Elders, M'. Thomas Oll.yver and Thomas
Leveritt, shall have their proportion of allotments for theire farming
layd out at Muddy River, b}' the before named five  persons, viz.,
William Colborne, William Aspynwall, John Sampford, William
Balstone and Richard Wright, or foure of them.
Item :    That the poorer sort of the Inhabitants such as are mem-
bers or likely so to be, and have noe Cattell, shall have their pro-
portion of allotments for planting ground, and other assigned unto
them by the Allotters, and layd out at Muddy River by the afore-
named five persons, or foure of them ;    those that fall betweene the
foote of the hill and the Waterto have but 4 acres upon a head, and
those that are farther of to have five acres for ever^^ head, the plott
to begin next Muddy Ryver side.
[ *A part of the leaf is  lost now, but the blanks are filled from the copy made in
1855.]
 - 30 - 
Boston Town Rkcords, lti35.                7
Item:  That M". William Hutchinson,  M^ Edmund Quinsey,
M^ Samuell  Wilbore,   M^ William  Cheesborowe  and  John
Ollyver, or foure ofthem, shall, by the assignments of the AUotters,
lay  out  their  proportion  of allottments for farmes att  Rumley
Marsh, whoe there are to have the same.
[5.] The 4th of the 11th moneth, called January, 1635.
Att a generall meeting upon publique notice.
Imprymis :     It is agreed b}-  generall consent that M^ Atherton
Haulgh shall have six hundred acres layd him out beyond Mount
WooUystone, betweene Monottycott Ryver and the bounds that
part our bounds from Wamoth;     and if  there be not convenient
meadowe there for his said  farme then he is  to bee accomodated
with meete meadowe for it in the little meaddow at the upper end
of the fresh brooke called the stande, and to bee layd out by the
former fyve mentioned persons, namely William Colborne, William
Aspinall, John Sampford, William Balstoue and Richard Wright,
or foure of them.
Item :   It is agreed that hereafter from this  da}' none shall fell
any Wood or timber at Muddy Ryver, or any other place ofprivate
allottments, but upon their owne allottments.
Item :     That all  such as have felled  any trees  in any the ap-
pointed place  for private allotments,  shall eyther cart away the
same within this six monthes, or else the owners of the ground shall
have it.
Item :    It is agreed that every one shall have a sufficient way unto
his allotment of ground, wherever it be, and that the Inhabitants of
the towne shall have libertie to appoint men for the setting of them
out, as need shall require, and the same course to be taken for all
comon high ways, both for the towne and countrie.
Item :     It is agreed* that all the alottments att Mount WooUyston
shalbe  set  out,  by M"".  Coddington, William Colbourne, William
Aspinall, Edmund Quinsey,  and Richard Wright, or some foure of
them ;  and that every allotment shall have a convenient proportion of
meaddowe therefore, according to their number of cattell that have
the same.
Item: That M^ William Hutchinson  shall  have  a  sufficient
farme layd him out att Mount WooUystone beyond M^ Codding-
ton's farme, and M'. Wilson s  into the countrie adioyning to Dor-
chester bounds by the afforesaid five persons, or foure of them, and
at their discretions.
The 23d of the 11th moneth, 1635.
Att a generall meeting upon publique notice.
Imprymis at this meeting, Thomas Marshall is, by generall con-
sent,  choosen for the keeping of a ferr}' from the mylne point unto
Charltowne,  an to  Wynnyseemitt, and to  take for his ferrying
unto Charltowne, as the ferryman there hath, and unto Wynny-
* [The following words arc stricken out: "that Ollyvcr Mellows, William Balston,
Thomas E   ,  Jacob EUyot, James Evcrill, James P'cnnymau, John (Buffer ?), Wil-
liam Chesborowe, Richard Truesdale, Edward Hutchinson, and Richard Wright shall
have."]
 - 31 - 
8               City Document No. 46.
semitt for a single person, 6d. ;    for two, 6d. ;    and for ever}' one
above the number of two, 2d. a peece.
Item :     That such of the poorer Inhabitants, whose allotments
were  other  where, should have libertie  for 3 yeare  to  plant  at
Mudd}- R^'ver, where the rest doe plant,  upon such part of their
Allotments as themselves are not able for the present to plant
:
thev, in regard thereof, making their part of the fence, and leaving
such fence as the}' doe make in due reparation, and not taking away
any of the Wood or timber upon those allottments.
[6.] Item :   It was likewise agreed that for the raj^sing of a new
Worke of fortification upon the Forthill, about that which is there
alredcly begune, the whole towne would bestowe fourteene dayes
worke, b}'^  equall  proportion, and for this  end M^ Deputie, M^
Henry Vane, M''. John Winthrop, Senr., M"". William Coddington,
M^ John Winthrop, Junr., Captaine John Underbill, and M"". Wil-
liam Brenton were authorised as Commissioners ;   that they, or the
greater part of them, should sett downe how many dayes worke
would be equall for each man to doe, and what money such should
contribute beside their worke as were of greater abilities, and had
fewer  servants,  that  there  with  provision  of tooles  and other
necessar3'es might bee made, and some recompence given to such
of the poorer sort as should be found to bee overburdened with their
foureteene dayes worke ;    and M"".  John Cogan is Chosen treasurer,
and M"'.  William D3'er, clarke, for the furtherance of this worke.
The Worke also is  to be gon in hand with soe soone as Weather
will permitt in regard that the Ingineere, M"". Lyon Garner, who
doth soe freely offer his help thereunto hath but a short time of
stay.
Money lent to this worke :   By the Deputy, £5 ;   by M^ Vane, £5 ;
by M^ Winthrop, £o ;   M"". Coddington, £5 ;   M"-. Winthrop, Junr,,
io ;     M". Kayne, £5 ;     M'. Hutchinson, £5 ;     M'. Cogan, £5 ;     M'.
Oll^'ver, and Tho. Leveritt, £5 ;    M^ Cogeshall, and M^ Harding,
£5.
The 19th of the 12th moneth, called February, 1635.
At a generall meeting upon publique notice.
Imprymis :     M^ William Hutchinson, M"". William Colborne and
M''. William Brenton are chosen to serve for Comitt3'es ;     M"".  John
Cogan and M''. William Aspinell to serve on the grand Jury, and
Richard Fairebancke, Wm. Hudson and James Pennj^mau to serve
of the pettie Jury.
The 27th of the last moneth, called February, 1635.
Att a meeting upon pryvate Warning it was agreed that there
shalbe a Watch taken up and gone arround with from the 1 of2d
month next, for the summertime, from sunne sett an houre after the
beating of the drumbe, upon penaltie for every one wanting therein
12cL for every night.
The 14 of the 1  moneth, called March, 1636
Att a generall meeting upon private warning.
At this meeting it was agreed that M''. Thomas Oliver,  Thomas
 - 32 - 
Boston Town Records, 1636.             9
Leveritt, M"". William Hutchinson, William Colborne, John Gog-
geshall,  John  Sampford,  Richard  Tuttell,  William  AspcMiall,
William Brenton, William Balston, Jacob Ellyott and James Peune
shall from this day oversee, looke unto and sett order for all  the
Allottmeuts within us, and for all  Comers in  unto us,  as also for
all  other the occasions and businesses of this Towne, excepting
matters of Election for the Generall courte —and so from time to
time to bee agreed upon and ordered b}' them, or the greater parte
of them, for these next six monethes.
And, whereas, att  a  Generall meeting the  14th  of the 10th
moneth last it was ordered that M"'. William Colborne, M''. William
Aspinall, John Sampford, William Balstone, and Richard Wright
should bound out M". William Coddingtons and Edmund Quinse^'s
farmes att Mount Woollystone, and the same accordingly to bee
entred in this booke ;   now the said five persons have thus given in
the  bounds thereof,  vizt.,  that  M"".  Wilson's  lott  shallbe  the
Northerly bound and the Sea on the east part, with so much of the
neck of land toward Nutt Hand unto the marked trees of the neck,
and so to be compassed about on the south and west part as wee
have marked, it  out by trees from place to place unto the dead
swamp next IM''.  Wilson's, Excluding a parcell of marsh land in
which there stands 3  horaocks, with pyne trees upon the south
side of the marsh neare the water.
[7,]  The 21st of the 1st moneth, 1636.
At a meeting of Thomas Ollyver, Thomas Leveritt,  William
Hutchinson, William Coulborne, John Coggeshall, John Sampford,
Wilham Brenton, AVilham Balston, and James Penne.
Imprymis :   At this day upon our viewe these former graunted Al-
lotments were not built upon according to a former order made the
30th of the 9th moneth last, and therefore that they are free to be
otherwise disposed of, vizt., ]VT. Atherton Haulghes, Zackie Bos-
worth,  Richard  Truesdayles, Richard  Oakes, Nathaniell Wood-
warde, Thomas Meakinsthe elder, and ThomasMeakiusthe younger,
M^ Greene's, M"".  Mullyn's,  Richard Walker's, John Palmer's,
James Johnson's,  Richard  Brackett's, Thomas Blott's,  Richard
Tuttell's,  Barnabie  Dorryfall's,  Thomas Savage's,          Bush-
nail's, M''. Woodwarde, M"". Stanley's, Roberte Houlton's, Anthou}^
Barker's,        Grigges, the Carpenters, and Richard Wrighte.
Item :    At this meeting it is ordered that all  the fences belong-
ing to the Corne feilde  shall  bee made sufficient before the  14th
day of the next second moneth upon payne of 5s.  for every rodd
defective, and they to bee overseene and looked unto thus, namely,
the  feild  towards  Rocksberiy  by  Jacob Ellyott  and Jonathan
Negoose, the fort feild  by James Penn and Richard Gridley, the
mylne feild  b}^  John Button and Edward Bendall, and the  new
feild by John Audley and Thomas Fairewether.
Item :   it is agreed that the Cowes shall bee kept from the 1st of
the 3d moneth next unto the last of the eight moneth.
Item :   It is  ordered that none of the Inhabitants amongst us that
have any milch cow shall keepe any goate upon the necke, nor
that they that have onely goats shall keepe any but their milch
 - 33 - 
10              City Doctjiment No. 46.
goats upon the necke, nor to keepe above fyve of them foi' any
one houshold, and all the rest to be sent away by the 1  of the 3d
moneth next.
Item :   That all gelt  beast but those that are in present use for
draughts, shall  bee put of from of the necke before the said 1st
day of the third moneth.
Item :     That noe Inhabitant amongst us shall keepe above twoe
milche cowes on the necke ;   and those that are more, to bee had a
way before the said 1st day of the 3 moneth.
Item :     That all  hoggs shall bee putt of the necke or kept up
from goeing abroad before the 2d day of the 2d moneth next, upon
payne of the  forfeyture  of them to bee  seized  upon by John
Sampford and William Balstone,  halfe  to  the  owner,  and one
quarter to the takers, and the other quarter for publique uses.
The 9th of the 3d moneth, called May, 1636.
Att a meeting on the day by Thomas Olyvar, Thomas Leveritt,
William Hutchinson, William Coulborne, John Coggeshall, William
Aspinall, William Brenton, William Balstone, James Penne.
It was ordered that noe Townsmen shall entertaine any stran-
gers into theire houses for above 14 dayes, without leave fi'om those
that are appointed to order the townes businesses.
Item :     It is  ordered that  William Aspinnall, William Brenton,
William Balston, John Sampford, and James Penne, or some foure
of them shall kn- out our Pastor M^ John Wilsons bounds and M'.
WiUiam Hutehinsons att Mount WooUystono.
Item :   It is ordered that none shall keepe any victualling houses
for the selling of wine, beare, cakes or any other kinde of victualls
within  this  towne,  but  onely such as are allowed thereunto as
Inkeepers.
[8.] The 13th of the 3d moneth, May, 1636.
Att a generall meetinge upon publique notice.
Att this Assembly M''.  William Hutchinson, M^ John Cogge-
shall and M^ Wilham Brenton are chosen for Deputyes or Com-
mittees for the service of this next generall Court.
The 6th of the 4th moneth, June, 1636.
Att a meeting this day before Thomas Olyver, Thomas Leveritt,
Willyam  Hutchinson,  Willyam  Coulborne,  John  Coggeshall,
William Aspenall,  Richard Tuttell,  John Sampford and James
Penne,
It  was agreed  that  there  shalbe a sufficient foote way made
from William Colbornes feilde end unto Samnell Wylebores feilde
end next Roxburie, by the Surveyors of the high wayes before the
last of the next 5th mouth.
Item :   Wee finde that Richard Fairebanke hath sold unto twoe
straingers the twoe houses  in  Sudbury end that  were  William
Balstones, contrary to a former order, and therefore the sayle to
bee  voyd, and the  said Richard  Fairbancke to forfeite  for his
breaking thereof, xl.s.
Item :    Wee finde that Isaacke Cullymore Carpenter hath sould
 - 34 - 
Boston Town Eecords, 1636.            11
his  house unto  a  strainger,  contrary  to  the  same order,  and
therefore the sayle thereof to bee voyd, and the said Isaaclce Cully-
more to forfeite for his breaking thereof, xls.
The 20th of the 4th moueth, 1G36.
Att a meeting this da\' before Thontts Oh'ver, Thomas Leveritt,
WilUam Hutchinson, WilUam Coulbor^,'_John Coggeshall, WilUam
Aspenall, WiUiam Brenton, John 8iimi>^f6rd", WilUam Balston nnd
James Penne, it was agreed that M'". Owy'n Roe, of London, having
a house and townes lott amongst us and certaine cattell, shall have
layd out for him 200 acres of ground att Mount AVoollystone for
the present releife  of his cattell, and for him to inioywhenas he
shalbecome an Inhabitant amongst us,  and not otherwise to bee
sett out by William Aspenall, William Brenton, William Balston,
John Sampford and James Penne, or some foure of them.
The 15th of the Gth moneth, 1636.
Att a meeting this day before Thomas Olyvar, Thomas Levei'itt,
William Hutchinson, William Coulborne, John Coggeshall, John
Sampford, Richard Tuttell,  William Balstone and James Penne,
It was ordered that John Sampford and William Hudson shalbe
Water baylies  to  see  that  noe annoying things eyther by fish,
Wood or stone  or other such like  things, be left or layd about the
sea shore, upon the forfeyture sett downe in former orders made
the 1st of the 7th moneth, 1634.
[9.]  The 22d of the 6th moneth, August 1636.
Att a generall meeting upon this day.
Att this  Assemi)ly M''.  Willyam Hutchinson, M^ John Cogge-
shall  and  JNP.  William  Brenton  are chosen  for  Deputyes  or
Comittyes for the service of the next generall Court.
Att this Assembly ]\P. John Newgate is  chosen for one of the
Constables within this towne for one whole yeare, and hath taken
his oath accordingly'.
The 16 of the 7th moneth, September, 1636.
Att a generall meeting upon this day.
Att this Assembly M^ Thomas Olyvar, Thomas Leveritt,  M^
William Hutchinson, M^ Robte Keayne, M^ John Newgate, M\
William Coulborne, M^ John Coggeshall, INP. John Sampford, I\P.
W^illiam Brenton and M^ WiUiam Balstone are, with generall con-
sent, chosen for these next sixe monthes to oversee and sett order
for all  allottments belonging to this towne, and for all other occa-
sions and businesses of the same (excepting matters of Election
for the Generall Corte) from time to time, to bee agreed upon and
ordered by them or the greater part of them.
Item :    At this Assembly it was agreed upon b}^ common vote and
bj' lifting up of hands that the 565 acrs as they are described in a
mapp and which were formerly purchased at Mount Woollystone
b}' our Pastor, M"". John AVUson, with the consent of this towne,
partly of M''. Pinclieon, i)artly of M"". Woolcott, partly of M^ Smyth
(or at least his Tytle utterly silenced) and partly of the Indyans
 - 35 - 
12              City Document No. 46.
should bee, and is  the Allotment of the said John Wilson there,
together with the lands there in Controversie betwixt Dorchester
and Boston, if  the Court adiudge them to Boston.
The 26th of the 7th moneth, 1G3G.
Att a meeting this day before Thomas Olyver, Thomas Leveritt,
WiUiara Hutchinson, Eobte Keayne, John JN^ewgate, William Coul-
borne. John Coggeshall, John tSampford and AViUiam Balstone, it
was founde  that William  Hudson hath  sould an housplott and
garden unto one William Mawer, a strainger, without the consent
of the appointed AUotters, contrarie to a former order,   xx s.
Also that William Aspewall hath sould a housplott and a garden
unto one M"". Tinge, contrarie to the same order  2 lb.
Item :    That in like sort JM^ Samuell C^ole hath sold an Allotment
unto one M''. Greenefield, and is  to forfett for the breaking of the
order iii lb.
The 4th of the 8th moneth, October, 1G36.
Att a meeting this day before Thomas Olyvar, Thomas Leveritt,
WilUam Hutchinson, Robte Keayne, John is'ewgate, John Cogges-
hall William Brenton and Wiliiam Balston, it  was agreed and
ordered that from this day there shall noe house at all  be built in
this towne neere unto au}^ of the streets or laj'ues therein, but with
the advise and consent of the overseers of the townes occasions for
the avoyding of disorderly building to the inconvenience of streets
and la^uies, and for the more comely and Commodious ordering of
them upon the forfej'ture for every house built Contrarie to this
order, of such some as the ouerseers shall see fitting,  under the
sume of X lb.
[10.]  The 17 of the 8th moneth, 1636.
Att a meeting this day before Thorns^ Olyvar, Thomas Leveritt,
William  Hutchinson,  Robert  Keayne,  John Newgate, William
Coulborne, John Coggeshall, William Brenton and John Samp-
ford, it  was ordered by them that all  the timber in the markett
place shalbe taken away before the next meeting da^-, which is to
be on the  1  day of the next moneth, upon the forfeyture of such
timber as shalbe there then found, and that noe more timber shalbe
thither brought upon the forfeyture thereof, and the markett place
to be gotten cleane and cleare dressed b}"  that time by William
Brenton and John Sampford, upon theire  forfeyture of x s.  in
default thereof, and the sawe pitte gotten filled.
Item :     It is ordered that John Gallop shall remove his pajdes at
his yarde ende within 14 dayes, and to rainge them even with the cor-
ner of his  house  for  the preserving  of the  way upon the Sea
Bancke.
Item :     That William Wilkes, Isaack  CuUimore, Henry Lynne,
and M'. Greensmyth shall raynge theii-e  payle upon each of their
gi'ounds streight from the corner of William Wilkes his house, or
from the upper poast of his garding gap, and to preserve a path
way, of a Rod breadth, betweene payle and pavle, betweene this
and the 1  of the next 2d moneth, and soe to goe all  along unto
John Pemberton's house in the same raynge.
 - 36 - 
Boston Town Records, 1G36.            13
Also that there shalbe a streete way betweene Henr^' Lynn and
RI'.  Samuell Coles' ground, to runne up from the water syde to the
next great crosse streete 1  Rod and halfe broad.
Also  another  layne  to goe  up from the water side b}' John
Gallop's, a pole breadth, imto the same crosse way.
Also another layne to be left  to goe from the water side up the
bailee or meare that goes up from the end of John Mylam's house,
next William Aspenall's ground, and to goe along to the Mylne
Cove a Rod and a halfe  broade.
Item :    That the streete way from the gates next James Everill's
towards ,ye  mylne is  to runne streight along in an even lyne to
John Pemberton's house, and to raynge betweene ThomasMarshall's
house and Sergyant Savage's house, and to be within the streete,
betweene payle and payle, on eyther syde 2 pole bredth.
Also that  there  shalbe  a layne  to  goe  from Cove to  Cove,
betweene Thomas Pa^-nter and Thomas Marshall,  1  pole and a
halfe betweene payle and payle in bredth.
The 1st of the 9th moneth, 1G3G.
Att a meeting this day before Thomas Olyvar, Thomas Leveritt,
William  Hutchinson,  Robert Keayne, William Coulborne, John
Coggeshall, William Brenton, John Sampford, and William Bal-
stone, it is ordered that all  the feild  fence shalbe made sufficient
with duble rayle  and payle before the  first  of the next second
moneth, upon the forfeyture of those i)lanting grounds that are not
soe fenced, or else to pay for every rodd then undone, x s.
The 15th of the same.
Att a meeting this day before Thomas OWvar, Thomas Leavitt,
William Hutchinson,  Robert  Keayne,  John Newgate,  William
Coulborne, John Coggeshall, John Samford, William Brenton, and
William Balstone, William  Hudson hath pa^xl  into the hands of
M''. Robert Keayne, v s. ;   William Aspenall, xxv s. ;   and 8amuell
Cole, XX s., for theire forfeyture upon their houses selling contrary
to a former Order.
Also at  this  meeting Richard Fairebanck is  chosen  for  our
Hog Reeve, according to order of Court.
Also it  was agreed that our Teacher, M"".  John Cotton,  shall
have unto his lott, at Muddy Ryvar, all  the ground l3'ing betweene
the twoe brooks next to William Colborne's allottment there, and
soe to the other end unto the shortest overcut be3'ond the hill towards
the north west.
[11.]  The 28th of the 9th moneth, 1636.
Att  a  meeting  this  day  before  Thomas  Olyvar,  Thomas
Leveritt,  William  Hutchinson,  Robert Keayne,  John Newgate,
William  Coulborne,  John  Coggeshall,  WilUam  Brenton,  John
Sampford, and William  Balstone, it  is  ordered and agreed that
Robte Harding shall remove the little  house in his yard, and take
it awa}' from thence before the 1 of the next 3d moneth.
Also  it   is agreed  that  the  Inhabitants whoe doe want wood
shall have hberty to gett for their use at Deare Island, soe as that
 - 37 - 
14             City Document No. 46.
they presently take and carrye away what they doe gett, and what-
soever the^^ leave felled  there to be at liberty lor others to take
awa}-.
The Mday of the 10th moneth, 1G3G, December.
Att a generall meeting npon publique notice, ]\F. John Cogge-
shall, M''. William Coulborne, and M"". William Brcnton are chosen
for Deputyes or  Comittees for the service of this next (icneraU
Court.
Also these 8 are chosen to Consider of INIoimt AVolistone bnsi-
nessc, and for the ri[)ening thereof how there may bee a Towne
and Church there, witii the consent of this Towne's Inhabitants, viz. :
The Governor, the  Deputy Governor, M"".  OUyvar, ]M^ Keayne,
M^ Newgate, M^ Coulborne, M^ Coggeshall, and M^ Brenton.
The 12th of the same 10th moneth.
Att a meeting this day of Tliomas Olyvar, Thomas Leveritt,
Willyam Hutchinson,  Robert  Keayne,  Jolni  Newgate, William
Coulborne, Jt)hn Coggeshall, William Brenton, John Sanford, and
AV^illiam Balstone, it  is agreed that Edward Belchar, William Tal-
mage, Thomas Snowe, and William Deninge, and John Arratt, the
servants of AVilliam Brenton, shall have their great AUottments at
Muddy Ryver, and also  our  brother Robert Hull  and Thomas
Wheeiar."
Also it is agreed that not above one dwelling house shalbe built
upon an}^ one lott without the consent of the Townes overseers.
The 2Gth of tlie same 10th moneth.
Att a meeting this  day, of Thomas Olyvar, Thomas Leveritt,
William  Hutchinson,  Robert  Keayne,  John  Newgate,  William
Coulborne, John Coggeshall, AVilliam Brenton, John Sauford and
AVilliam Balstone. it  is  agreed Thomas Mount shall have leave to
fence in a peece of the marsh before his house, for the makeing of
brick in, at the  pleasure of the overseers of the towne, and at
theirc appointment to lay it open againe.
The Oth of 11 th moneth, called January, 1G;>6.
Att a  meeting this  day of Thomas Olyvar, Thomas Leveritt,
AVilliau)  Hutcliiuson,  Robert  Keayne,  John  Newgate,  AVilliam
Coulborne, John Coggeshall, AVilliam Brenton, John Sanford and
AVilliam Balstone, it  is  agreed, that the Captaine Underbill shall
have a great Allottment of 80 acrs of Ui)land,  and 20 acrs of
marsh ground in the most convenient place, after the laying out
of the former graunted Allotments att Muddy Ryvar.
Also,  that  our  brother,  John OUyvar, shall  have  his  greate
Allotment of forty acrs att Pulleii Poynt.
And, AVhereas, at a generall meeting the 1th of the 11th month,
1635, it  was ordered that M^ AVilliam Coddington, M^ William
Coulborne. AVilliam Aspinanll, Edmund Qninsey, and John San-
ford, should lay out M'". AVilliam Hutchinson, a suflicient  farme at
Mount AA'ooUystoue, at their discretions ;     now the said five persons
have, .at  this d;iy under (heir hands, thus given in  the laying out
 - 38 - 
Boston Town Records, KJ^G.            15
thereof,  viz.,  the}'  have assigned unto him six  hundred  acrs  of
ground, lying betwixt Dorchester bounds and Mount WooUistone
rvver, from tiie  bade side of M''.  Coddington's and ISV.  Wilson's
farmes, up into the Country, and if tliere be not sudicient meddow
ground within his lott to have such competent meddow assigned to
him as we shall thinke littinge.
[12.] The 9th of the 11th month, 1G3G.
It  was further  agreed, that  oiu-  brother, Isaac  Grosse,  shall
have a great Allotment at Mudd^- River.
And our brother, Hugh Gunnyson, at Mount Woollystone for 3
heads.
Also, it was graunted to our brother, M^ William Brenton, that
in leiwe of his allottinent at Hogg Hand, he shall have twenty acrs
more added unto his allottment at Pullen Poynte neeke.
And that our brother, M'. Edward Gibbon, shall have an Allott-
ment of fourescore acrs at PuUen Poynt, if it be there to be had.
And that  our brother. John Olyvar, shall  have an allottment
of fiftie acrs there, and that ra3ther in regard of his father's resign-
ing his right at Hog Island to the Towne.
The 23 of the same 11 moneth.
Att an assembly this day, of Thomas Olyvar, Thomas Leveritt,
Willyarn  Hutchinson,  Robert Keayne, John Newgate, Willyam
Coll)Ourne, John Goggcshall, John Sami)ford and Willyarn Brenton,
it  was agreed, that          Bushnall, widdow, George Hardwood
and John Lowe, the wheelwright, shall have house lotts andgardens
upon the usuall Condition of inoffensive Carrj'age.
The 7th of the 12th month, called February, 1G3G.
Att a meeting this da^-, of Thomas Leveritt, William Hutchinson,
Robert Keayne, John Newgate, John Coggeshall, John Sanford,
Willyam Brenton and Willyam Balstone, it  was agreed, that our
brother, Thomas Alcock, shall have his  great  lott  layd  out  at
Muddy River.
The 20th of the 12th moneth, called February, 1G3G.
Att a meeting this day, of  Thomas Olyvar, Thomas Leveritt,
Willyam Hutchinson, Robert Keayne,  John Newgate,  Willyam
Coulborne, John Coggeshall, John Sanford, Willyam Brenton and
Willyam Balstone, it is agreed that our Brother, M". John Wheele-
wright, shall have an Allottment of twoe hundred and fiftie  acrs
layd out for him att Mount AVoollystone, where may be most Con-
venient, without preiudice to setting up of a towne there ;   to be layd
out by M^ Coddington and our brother Wright.
Also that our  brother,  Willyam VVardall,  Willyam Coale and
Sampson Shelton, shall have, each of them, two acrs a peece layd
them out at the Mount onely for their present planting, and to bee
left by them att the discretion of the AUotters thereofallowing them
such of their costs about them as then may be fitting.
Also that Nicholys Needham shall have the like Allowed unto
him there.
 - 39 - 
16              City Document No. 46.
Also that our brother, Thomas Savage, shall have seaveii aors
of the marsh ground att Muddy Ryver layd him out, for the keep-
ing of his Cattle  (being in number five) by our brother, William
Coulborne and others.
Also that Thomas Joj^es shall  have leave to buj'e a  peece of
ground of  our brother Robert Turner, and to have it  upon the
usuall Condition of inoffensive Carryage.
The 6th of the 1st moneth, called March, 1G37.
Att a meeting this day, of Thomas Olyvar, Thomas Leveritt,
"Will3'am  Hutchinson, John  Newgate, Willyam Conlborue, John
Goggeshall, William Brenton and William Balstone, it  is  agreed
that Thomas Scottoe, the sonne of our sister Thomasine Scottoe,
shall have leave to build an house on his mother's ground, rancking
it in order with the Consent of the Townes Overseers.
Also that our Brother Willyam Balstone, shall have the remayn-
ing swampe on the backside of i^l^ Coddington's swampe unto the
Widdow Furtons corner payle, leaving out twoe rodde and a halle
for eyther of the high ways that are against it,  the one being the
way to the mylne, and the other to the Cove next unto M''.  Cod-
dingtons.
The 20th of the same moneth, 1G37.
Att a Generall Meeting upon Piiblique notice.
Att this  meeting INI''.   Thomas Olyvar, Thomas Leveritt,  M'.
Willyam Hutchinson, M^Willyam Coulborne, M"". John Goggeshall,
W. Robert Harding, M''. John Sanford, M"'. Willyam Brenton, W.
William Balstone,  James Penne  and  Jacob  Ellyot,  are,  with
Generall Consent, Chosen for these next six monethes to oversee
and sett order for the townes occasions as formerly hath beene.
Also Thomas Grubbe and Jonathan Negoose are Chosen Sur-
veyors for the high wayes towards Roxbury, and Thomas IMarshall
and John Button for the high wayes to the Milne for this  next
yeare.
[13.]  The 21st of the 1st moneth, called March, 1G37.
Att a meeting this day of Thomas Olyvar, Thomas Leveritt,
Willyam Hutchinson, William Coulborne, John Goggeshall, Robert
Harding, John Sanlbrd, AYillyam Balston, and James Penne,  it
was agreed that our brother James Pennyman shall have leave for
this yeare to mowe that part of the marsh on the necke neare unto
his garding which he hath wontedlj' mowen.
The 3d of the 2d moneth, called April, 1G37.
Att a meeting this day of Thomas Olyvar, Thomas Leveritt,
Willyam Hutchinson, AVillyam Coull)orne, John Coggeshall, John
Sanford, James Penne and Jacob Ell3-ott,  It  was agreed that our
brother Alexander Winchester shall have a garding plott next unto
our bretherenn William Dyneley and William Wilsons theire garden
plotts  upon like  condition with them of building  houses therein
when they shall come to lye in  a streete way.
Whereas at a former meeting it  was agreed that M^ Willyam
 - 40 - 
Boston Town Records, 1637.            17
Codflington  and our bothher Richard Wright should lay out our
brothci- IVr.  John  AVhcelewright  his  Allotment of  250  acrs  at
Mount "\Vooll3-stone, now Ihey have brought in the laying out there-
of thus, vizt., 40 acrs thereof in the suuke marsh l.ying  south and
by cast of the lands of the said Willjam Coddington, 5  acrs for
his house lott and 205 acrs at the end of it running with one side
of the lirst  lott  and the lyne of 20 acrs of the planting ground
allotted to be extended into the countrie till  his  full  proportion of
2U5 acrs between those two lynes be runned out.
Also it is  agi-eed that Stephen Kinsley, labourer,  shall have a
house plott next unto our brother Alexander AVinchester his garden
plott.
The 17th of ths 2d moneth, 1637.
Att a meeting this day of Thomas Leverett, William Hutchin-
son, Willyam Coulborne, John Coggeshall, John Sanford, Willyam
Brenton, James Penne and Jakob Ellyot, it  is  agreed that all  the
feild  fences and gates shalbe made up and forthwith looked unto
by Sergeant Ilutcliinson and Richard Gridley for the fort feild, by-
John Button,  James Everill  and Isaack  Grosse for the mylne
feild and new feild, and by Wilh'am Coulborne and Jacob Ell3'ott
for the feild next Roxburie.
Also, that Richard Sherman's wife shall have a house plott next
unto Stephen Kinsley's house plott, or M"". Danyell Maud's garding
plott there.
Also, that M^ Danyell Mawde, schoolemaster, shall have a gar-
den  plott  next  unto  Stephen  Kinsley's  house-plott  upon like
Condition of building thereon if neede bee. .
The 29th of the same moneth.
Att a meeting this day of Thomas Ol3'var,  Thomas Leveritt,
Willyam Hutchinson, William Coulborne, John Coggeshall, John
Sanford, Willyam Brenton, Will3-am  Balstone, James Penn, and
Jacob Ellyot, it was granted that our brother Edmund Hutchinson
shall have a garding plott layd out at the south end of M"". Robert
Keayne's great garding.
Also, it  is ordered that the feild fences at Mudd3^ Ryver shalbe
made sufficient before the 7th day., of the next third moneth by
equall proportion of acrs upon the planters thereupon, in default
of xij cL for every acre then undone.
The 13th of 3d moneth, called May, 1G37.
Att a meeting this  da3' of Thomas Olyvar, Tliomas  Leveritt,
Willvam Hutchinson, Will3'am Coulborne, John Coggeshall, Robert
Harding, John Sanford, AVillyam Brenton, Willyam Balstone and
James Penne, it  is  ordered that the fould keeper shall have for
ever3' trespassinge  beast or horse that he fetchoth to ye fould iii  d.
and for every trespassing Calfe,  goat or hogg fetched  unto the
fould ii d. ;   and for every one brought untothe fould by an3' other, i d.
Item :     It is agreed that whosoever else shall bring any trespass-
ing Cattell to the fould they shall have for every great beast and
horse so brought, iii  d.  and for ever3' calf,  goate  and  swine so
 - 41 - 
18              City Document No. 46.
brought, i d., and that there shalbe paid for every fould breach, vs.
or rescuing of any.
Item :      It is  agreed  that Richard  Fairebancke shalbe the fold
keeper for the residue of this our half yeare time.
[14.]  The 18th day of the 3d moneth, May, 1637.
Att a generall meeting upon publique notice, M"'. Henry Vane,
M"".  AVillyam Coddington, and M'. Atherton Haulgh, are chosen
for the service of this Generall Corte as Deputyes or Comittees.
The 19th of the same moneth.
Att a generall meeting upon pryvate and particular Warning from
house to house and by Reason of the Courts refusall of the former
Choyse, M'. Henry Vane, Esq., M'. Willyam Coddington and M^
Atherdon Haulgh are now againe Cliosen deput3'es or Comittees for
the service of the present Generall Courte, and that upon AVarrant
to Us from the Courte for a new choyse.
The 2d of the 4th moneth, June, 1637.
Att a meeting tlais day of Thomas Leveritt, "William Hutchinson,
William  Coulborne, John Coggeshall,  John  Sanford,   William
Brenton,WiIliam Balstone and JamesPeune, It is agreed thatJames
Pennyman shall have the Ililsteade and the marsh ground under it
as it shalbe measured and bounded out at Charles Ryver, He allow-
ing out of his Allottment at Mount wooll3'stoue  seaven acrs for
five.
Also, M'. Thomas Flint hath allotted unto him 24 acrs of the
marsh ground at the mouthof Muddy River, and there to be layd
out for him.
Also, it is agi'eed that Richard Fairebancke shall have leave for
this summer tyme to mowthe marsh that is against his acr of plant-
ing ground in the Newfeild, as he hath formerly mowne it.
The 12th ofthe 4th moneth, June, 1637.
Att a meeting this day of Thomas Olyvar, Thomas Leveritt,
Willyam Hutcliinson, W^illyam Coulborne, John Coggeshall, Robte
Harding, Willyam Brenton, Willyam Balstone, James Penne and
Jacol) Ell^'ott, George Woodward, sopeboylar, was found a delin-
quent for an unlawfull entry upon some ofthe Towne's ground and
for digging holes and annoying the high Way with stinking fish to
the forfeiturs of £iii vi s. viii d.
Att this meeting it was brought in that M^ Willyam Peirce hath
an hundred acrs of upland and marsh ground laj'd out for him at
Pullcnpoint necke.
Also M^ Edward Gibbon hath fourescore acrs of upland  and
marsh ground layd him out there.
Also John Olj'var  hath  his  flft3^e  acrs  of upland and marsh
ground layd him out there.
Also M^ William Brenton had threescore  and foure  acrs  of
upland and marsh ground layd him out there, and a hundrd acrs
on the otherside of M^ Aspenalls.
Also Edward Bayts hath foureteene acrs of upland and marsh
ground layd him out there.
 - 42 - 
Boston Town Records, 1637.            19
Also George Ruggle hath graunted unto him a housplott and gar-
densteade to be layd out neero unto the new mjdne by our brother
Coulborne and some other of the company'.
The 1 of the 5th raoneth, July, 1637.
Att  a meeting this day of Thomas Olj^var,  Thomas Leveritt,
Willyam Hutchinson, Willyam Coulborne, John Coggeshall, Rob-
ert Harding, AVillyam Brenton, Willj^am Balston, James Pennc and
Jacob Ell3'ott, there was granted to our brother Ralph Hudson a
garding plott at the end of Thomas Mekins garden plott.
Also a house and garden plott graunted to our brother Sammuell
Wilbore att the side of Baruabie Dorryfalls housplott and garden.
The 16th of the same 5th moneth.
Att a meeting this  day of Thomas Olyvar, Thomas Leveritt,
Willyam Hutchinson, Willyam Coulborne, John Coggeshall, Rob-
ert Harding, John Samford, William Brenton, James Penne and
Jakob Ell3-ott, there was graunted  unto  Jacob EUyott the little
marsh lying  against  Charles  Ryver with  a little  hill  of upland
ground, neere the middest therof, and com.past on three sydes with
highland ground, allowing out of his Allotment att mount Woolly-
stone seaven acrs for five.   The which he afterwards allowed, and it
layd out for parte of his brother Francis Elyotts Allotment at  the
Mount.
[15.]  The 7th of the 6th raoneth, August, 1637.
Att a meeting this  day of Thomas Ol^'var,  Thomas Leveritt,
William Hutchinson, William Coulbourne, John Coggeshall, John
Sanford, William Balston and James Penne, leave is  granted to
Richard Fau'bank to  sell  his shopp to      Saunders, a booke-
bynder.
The 28 of the same 6th moneth.
Att a meeting this  day of Thomas Ol3'var,  Thomas Leveritt,
William Hutchinson, John Coggeshall, John Sanford, James Penn,
William Balston and Jacob EUyott, it is agreed that Richard Hull
Carpenter shall have libertv to sell  his  house and ground neere
John Galloppe unto Phillip Sherman, of Roxbury.
Also it is agreed that M^ Willyam Hutchinson shall have leave
for this present summer to mowthedittle meaddowe at the head of
Monit3'cott R3'var,  and to be Considered of for further inio3ing
of it.
The 25th of the 7th moneth, September, 1637.
Att a meeting this  day of Thomas Ol3-var,  Thomas Leveritt,
William Hutchinson, William Coulborne, John Coggeshall, John
Sanford, William Balstone and James Penne, it is agreed that M^
Thomas Makepeace shall have a houseplott and gardingplace.
Also that our brother Edward Dennys shall have a housplott
and garding stead towards the new mylne.
Also our brother Richard Wayte to have the like thereabouts.
Also Robert Gillara,  marryner, hath leave to bu3' a houseplott
where he can.
 - 43 - 
20              City Document No. 46.
Also leave is granted to Henry Webbe to buy the house wherein
he now dwelleth, and to have a garding plott where may bo most
Convenient for him.
Also there is a garding plott granted to our brother .James Penne
for to la_y to the house that was Widdowe Shelleys, to be la^'d out
among the garden plotts towards the new raylne.
Also there is  granted to our brother Valentine Hill  a garding
plott there.
Also there is  granted to our brother William Cheesbrough shall
have 2 rodd and a halfe square of the marsh next unto M^ Belling-
hams woodyard for to build upon.
Also there is  granted to John Lowe, Wheelewright, 2 rodd and
a halfe square of the same marsh next unto our brother Cheesbrough
for a house plott and yard roome.
Also there is granted to our brother William Hudson a foote and
a halfe to come into the streete way for the setting up of his new
building towards the sea s^'de where he dwelleth.
The IG of the 8th moneth, October, 1G37.
Att a Generall meeting upon Publique notice.
M'. Willyam Coddington, M^ John Coggeshall and M^ William
Aspenall  are  chosen  as  Deputies  or  Comittees  for  this  next
generall Cort.
Also  at  this  meeting M^ Olyvar, M'. Leveritt, IVP.  William
Hutchinson, M"".  William Coulborne, M^ John Coggeshall,  M^
William Aspenall, M^ John Sanford, M^ Rohte Harding, Ancient*
Balston, James Penn and Jacob Ell3-ott  are Chosen as formerly
for the Occasions of this towne for these next six months, and so
until new ones be made choise of and their charges at theire meet-
ings to be borne by the towne in generall.
Also at this meeting M"". Raph Hudson and Edward Bendall are
chosen Cunstables of this towne for this next yeare.
[16.]  The 30th of the 8th moneth, called October, 1637.
Att a meeting this  day of  Thomas Olyvar, Thomas Leveritt,
William  Hutchinson,  William  Coulbourne,  John  Coggeshall,
William Aspenall, John Sanford,  Robte Hardinge, William Bal-
ston, James Penne, and Jacob EUyott :      our brother  Valentine
Hill  hath his great Allotment granted him att Pullen Point, to the
number of GO acrs, if  it be there to be had.
Also there is  graunted to our brother John Hansett a great Lott
att the Mount, for 3 heads, yea, even for three heads.
The Gth of the 9th moneth, November, 1G37.
Att a meeting this  day, upon particular notice, the Freemen
have, upon farther Consideracon, by Warrant from the generall
Court, instead of M''. John Coggeshall and M^ William Aspenall,
Chosen M^ William Coulborne and John Olyvar, to be ioyned with
M^ William Coddington for Deputyes or Comittees for this present
generall Court.
* This name is very indistinct.   Mr. Morse transcribed it  as Americent.
 - 44 - 
Boston Town Records, 1637.            21
The loth of the 9th moneth, November, 1G37.
At a meeting this  day of  Thomas Oljvar, Thomas Leveritt,
"WiUiam lliitehinson, WiUiain Coulbonie, John Coggeshall, Wilham
AspenaU, John Sanford, Robte Harding, William Balstone, James
Penne and Jacob P^llyott, our brother, John Olyvar, hath granted
unto him a peice of marsh adioyning to M''. Ting's ditch, eighteene
pace in bredth to the outside of his  fence from his garding end to
the high way next the beach,
Also there is granted to the Governor, M". John Winthropp, the
twoe hills  next Pullen Point, with some barren marsh adioyning
thereunto. Provided it  be noe hindrance of the townes setting up a
Ware in Fisher's Creek, or fishing for Basse there.
Also  there  is  granted  to  our Brother Samucll Wilbore foure
rodde in length of the marsh towards the sea shore, and 3 rodd in
depth next unto John Lowe his grant there.
Also there is granted to our brother Thomas Marshall one rodd
in depth of the same marsh next unto the ground he hath there.
The 4th of the lOlh moneth, called December, 1037.
Att a meeting this  day of  Thomas Olyvar, Thomas Leveritt,
William Hutchinson, William Coulborne, John Coggeshall, John
Sanford,  Robte  Harding, William  Balston,  James Penne,  and
Jacob EUyott, there was graunted to John Bibbles a house plott
next unto Richard Woodhowses.
Also it  is  agreed that M''. Atherton Haulgh shall have all  the
neck of land ( as yet not layd out) Jo^-ning to M"". William Cod-
dington, and the rest of the Brethren's meadow Lotte there, and to
have it  made up seaven hundred Acrs upon the maineland, fiftie
Acrs thereof to be in the little meadow where M^ William Hutch-
inson had hay mown this  last yeare ;     and if  the meadow exceed
not threescore acrs, then is M"". Haulgh to have the whole meadow,
and it  is  left  to his choyse to beginne for the rest, eyther at the
little meadow, and so to come downwards to the Brethren's Lott of
7 Acrs upon a head, or to begin from their Lotte, and so up to the
meadow all  upon the south side of the stony brooke, and for the
Rockie ground therein to  have  allowance, as the Brethren have
unto their Rockie ground there, and to have Commonage, as the
Brethren have there.   And if  the said meadow doe exceed three-
score Acrs, then is M^ Haulgh to have his fiftie Acrs therein where
he pleaseth, taking it alltogether at which end thereof he will.
The 28 day of the 8th moneth, called October, 1G37.
Furthermore,  at  a  meeting of  M'.  Thomas Olyver,  Thomas
Leveritt,  M'.  Willyam  Colborn,  M''.   Robert  Keayne,  Captain
Edward Gibon,  M'. William  Ting, Jacob Elyott and M"".  John
Cogan, It was fully agreed off and Concluded betweene the said
Townsmen and on the Towne's behalfe on the one part, and the
said M'. Atherton Haulgh on the other part, that M'. Haulgh shall
relinquish all Clame unto all  that land commonl}^ Called the Cap-
taine's Plaine.  lying over against  the  southerne end of  the  "id
Company of Lotts at Mount Wooliston and being on the West
side of the fresh brooke, bounded towards the North and East by
 - 45 - 
22              City Document I^o. 46.
the said fresh brooke runninge out of a swamp in the tniddest of
the plaine neere adioyning unto the said fresh brooke, towards the
West by the marked trees :        In  consideration of which the men
Cliosen on the Towne's behalf afforesaid doe grant and agree that
the said M^ Ilaulgli shall have with all  Convenient speede meas-
ured out unto him as much land in quantity as the plaine bounded
as afforesaid conteyneth in it,  and 50 Acrs overplus to adioyne
unto the southernmost side of land allred}- lavd out to him to h'e
all  along a lyne allredy sett out, extending about 500 Eodds in
length, and to be of equall breadth from the said lyne in all phices
as much as the quantity granted to him (whatsoever it be) shall
require.
[17.] The 18th day of the 10th moneth, called December, 1G37.
Att a meeting this  day of  Thomas Olyvar, Thomas Leveritt,
Wm. Hutchinson, AVilliam  Coulborne, John Coggeshall, William
Aspenall,  John  Sanford,  William  Balston,  James Penne,  and
Jacob Ellyott, it is  agreed that John AVoodward and Robte Wood-
ward, the sonnes of Nathaniell AV^oodward, shall have houspiotts
allotted them.
Also, it  is  agreed that Edward Bendall shall.keepe a sufficient
ferry boate to cany to Noddles Island and to the shipps ryding
before the towne, taking for a single person ii cL, and fortwoe 3 cL,
and if there be more i d. a peece.
The 8th of the 11th moneth, called January, 1637.
Att a meeting this day of Thomas Leveritt, AVilliam Hutchin-
son,  AVilliam  Coulborne,  John  Coggeshall,  AViUiam  Aspenall,
John Sanford, Robte Harding, AViUiam Balstone, James Penne
and Jacob Ellyott, it  is  agreed that John Martyn, shipcarpenter,
shall have a housplott.
Also,  that  Thomas Pettit,  having  served  with  our  brother,
Olyvar Mellowes, this  three years and a halfe, shall have a hous-
plott granted unto him towards the new mylne.
Also, that  Erasmus BuUocke,  having  beene this  5  yesus  in
towne, shall have leave for a housplott.
Also, it  is agreed that Richard Fairbancke shall have leave for
this next summer tyme to mowe the marsh ground that is against
his acre of planting ground in  the newfeild as he hath formerl}^
mowen it.
Also, whereas  att  a Generall  Meeting the  14th of the  10th
moneth, IGoo, it  AVas by generall  Consent agreed upon for the
laying  out of great  Allotments  unto  the  then Inhabitants, the
same are now brought in bounded as foUoweth :  —
1.  Imprymis :       Edward Browne, eight  acrs:  bounded on the
southwest with M^ AA'illj^am  CoulI)orne, on the North AVcst with
Richard Bulgar, and on the south East with Muddy River, and
North East with Beniamyn AVard.
2.  Beniamyn AVard, twelve acrs :    bounded on the South AVest
with Edward Browne, on the North AA'est with the Cedar swamp,
and on the South East with Muddy River, and on the North East
with John Gramme.
 - 46 - 
Boston Town Records, 1G37.            23
3.  John Cramme, sixteene acrs :     bounded on the  south-West
with Beniamin Ward, on the North East with the Cedar swamp,
and on the south P.ast with Muddy River, and on the North West
with Robert Iloulton.
4.  Robert Houlton, sixteene acrs :     bounded on the south West
with John Cramme, on North West with the Cedar swamp, and
on the south East with Muddy River, and on the North East with
Jarrat Bourne.
5.  Jarrett Bourne, eight acrs :     bounded on the South West with
Robert Houlton, on the North West with the Cedar swamp, and
on the South East with Muddy River, and on the North East with
John Biggs.
G.  John Biggs, eight acrs :      bounded on the  South West with
Jarrett Bourne, on the North East and South East with Muddy
River Marsh, and on the North West with William Beamsley.
7.  William  Beamsley, sixteene  acrs :     bounded on  the  South
East with John Biggs, on the South West with the Cedar swamp,
and on the North East with Muddy ryver marsh, and on North
West with Thomasyn Scottna, Widdow.
8.  Thomasyn Scottua, Widdow, sixteene acrs :     bounded on the
South East with William Beamslej', on the South West with the
Cedar swamp, and on the North East with Muddy River Marsh,
and on the North West on Alexander Becke.
9.  Alexander Becke eight acrs:  bounded on the  South East
with  Thomasyn Scottua, Widdow, on the  South West with  the
Cedar swampe, and on the North East with Muddy River marsh,
and on the North West with Raphe Route, laborer.
10.  Raphe Route, twelve acrs :    bounded on the South East with
Alexander Becke, on the  North East with a. little  marsh at  the
mouth of Charles Ryver, and on the * Robert Reade on the North
West.
11.  Robert Reade, eight acrs :     bounded on the South East with
Raphe Route, and the said little  marsh on the North East, with
Charles  River  riming  from thence  towards the  south West,  a
quarter of  a myle in length, towards the Surveyors marke, and on
Mathew Ines on the Northwest.
12.  Mathew Ines, eight acrs:  bounded on the south East with
Robert Reade, on the North East with Charles River, of the same
length towards the South West, and on Anthony- Harker on the
North West.
[18.]  13.  Anthony Harker, eight acrs :   bounded on the South
East with Mathew Ines, on the North East with Charles River, and
of the same length to the South West, and on John Pemmerton on
the Northwest.
14.  John Pemmerton, eight acrs :     bounded on the South East
with Anthony Harker, on North East with Charles River, and of
the same length to the South West, and on George Griggs on the
North West.
15.   George Griggs, twentie and eight acrs:  bounded on the
South East with John Pemmerton, on the North East with Charles
*Evidently an omission here in the original.
 - 47 - 
24             City Document No. 46.
Eyver, and of  tho same length to the South West, and on James
Fiteh and Richard Fitch on the Northwest.
IG.  James Fitch and Hiehard Fitch, sixteene acrs :     bounded on
the Soulli East witii George Griggs and I^lmund .laekson, on the
Korth Fast -with  Charles  River and on  tlie  North West Avith
Watertowne, and on Anne Ormesby, Widdow, on Uie Southwest.
17.  Anne Ormesby, Widdow, eight acrs :      bounded on tlie South
East side, and on  both  ends, with  tlie  Cedar Swamp, and on
Nathaniell Woodward the elder on the South West.
18.  Nathaniell Woodward the  elder,  twenty and eight  acrs:
bounded on the South East with Anne Ormesby, Widdow, on the
North East with the Cedar swamj), the South East side  extending
GO rodd and the North West side 80 Kodd towards the Southwest.
19.  oJnmes Johnson, eight acrs :   bounded on the South East with
Nathaniell Woodward, being 80 Rodd in length, and on Nathaniell
Heaton to the Northwest.
20.  Nathaniell  Ileaton, twenty acrs :     bounded on the  South
East with  James Johnson,  being 80  Rodd in  length,  and on
Ednnnid Jackson to the Northwest.
21.  Edmund Jackson, eight acrs:  bounded on the South East
with Nathaniell Ileaton, and of the same length towards the North
East, and on the North West with James Fitch and Richard Fitch,
and on the Southwest with a Swamp.
22.  Richard Bulgar, twenty acrs :      bounded on the South East
with  Edward Browne, and on  M^ AVilliam  (^oulborne,  on  the
North East with the Cedar SAvamp and Nathaniell Woodward, the
North West syde being 80 Rodd in length.
23.  Elizabeth  Purton, Widdow, eight  acrs:  bounded on the
South East with Richard Bulgar, and of the same length towards
the South West and North East, and on William Salter towards
the North West.
24.  William  Salter, eight  acrs:  bounded on the South East
with Widdowe I'urton, of the same length to the South West and
North East, and on William Wilson to the North West.
25.  William AVilson, twelve acrs:  bounded on the South East
with William Salter, and of  the  same length  to  the  Southwest
and North East, and on William Townsend to the Northwest.
26.  William  Townsend,  eight  acrs:  bounded to  the  South
East with William Wilson,  on the Northwest Avith  a Swamp bj'
]^^^  John Coggeshall's AVigwam and William Dyneley.
27.  William Dyneley, fonre and twenty acrs :      bounded on the
South East with William Townsend, and on the North East by
the said Swamp, extending to the southwest  about 40 Rodd in
length, and on liichard Tappin to the Northwest.
28.  Richard Tappin, foure and twenty acrs:  bounded on tlie
South East with William Dyneley, and on the North East with tlie
said  Swamp, extending to  the  Sonth West about  40  Rodd in
length, and on the North West b}'  Newtowne, a small peece of
land lying betweene.
29.  Francis Bushnall. foure and twenty acrs, lying in the forme
of a Tryangle :   bounded on the South with IM''.  William Coulborne,
and on the North East with Richard Bulgar, Widdow Piuton and
William Salter, and on Henry Elkyn to the Northwest.
 - 48 - 
Boston Town Records, 1637.            25
30.  Henry Elkyn, eight acrs :     bounded on the South I-Cast witli
Francis Bushnall, and on the South west wiih J\F. Willyam Coul-
borne, being about 70 Rodd iu  length and on Kichard Fairbancke
to the Noith west.
31.  Richard  Fairbancke, throe  and twenty' acrs :     bounded on
the South P^ast with Henry Elkyn, and on the South end partly
with  M^ Willih  Coulborne,  being  80  Rodd in  length  on  the
Northwest syde.
[19.]  32.   John Mylam,  fourteene  acrs:   bounded on the
South East with Richard Fairbancke, being 80 Rodd in length to
the South West and North East,  and on Robte Walker to the
North West.
33.  Robte Walker, fourteene acrs :     bounded on the South East
with John Mylam, on the Northwest with James Davisse, and a
fresh marsh by Newtowne, being 80 Rodd in length to the South-
west and North East.
34.  James Davisse,  tenn  acrs :      bounded on the South East
with Robte Walker, on the North East with the said fresh marsh
extending from it  to the Southwest about 40 Rodd on the North-
west bv Newtowne, about 2 acres of ground overplus betweene.
3o.  Willyam Pell, five and twenty acrs :        bounded on the South
West with M''. Willih Coulborne and a brooke running betweene
M"". John Cotton and him on the Northwest S}de, being 80 Rodd in
length.
3G.  Robte Reynolds, five  and twenty acrs :       bounded on the
South East with Wilhli  Pell,  and John Cranwell  and George
Baytes, on the North West with Newtowne, being on the North-
west sjTle half a myle in length.
37.  John Cranwell, tenn acrs :    bounded on. the South East with
M^ John Cotton, on the North East with the said Freshbrooke,
and on the Northwest with Robte Reynolds and George Baytes.
38.  George Baytes,  fifteene acrs, bounded on the North East
with John Cranwell, on  the  South  East with  M"". John Cotton,
and on the Northwest with Robte Reynolds,
39.  Philemon Pormont, thirtie  acrs:  bounded  on  the North
East with John Cranwell, on the  South  East with M'.  Thomas
Leveritt, and l^y a peeee of ground lying betweene him and M"".
John Cotton, on ye Northwest with NewtQwne.
40.  Robert Mears, twenty acrs.:  bounded on the North East
with M^ Thomas Olyvar, on the South East with Roxburie, and on
the  Southwest with Captaine John Underbill,  his  land lyeth in
forme of a Tryangle.
41.  Edward Bendall,  five  and  thirty acrs:  bounded on the
South  East Avith  Robte Meares, on  the  North  East with  M"".
Thomas Leveritt, extending it  self to the North West side about
70 Rodd in length, and on Thomas Wardall to the Southwest.
42.  Thomas Wardall,  twentie  acrs :       bounded on the  South
East with Edward Bendall, on the North East with M'". Leveritt,
extending it self on the North West side 80 Rodd in length.
43.  M'. Willyam Blackstone,  fifteene  acrs :      bounded on  the
South East with Thoniiis  Wardall,  extending itself  80  Rodd in
length to the Southwest and North East and on Robte Tytus to
the North West.
 - 49 - 
26              City Document No. 46.
44.  Robert Tytus, twenty acrs :   bounded on the South East with
M^ Blackstoue, extending it self 80 Rodd in length towards the
Southwest and North East, and on William Courser to the North-
west.
45.  William Courser, tenn  acrs:  bounded on the  South East
with Robert Tytus, being 80 Rodd in length to the Southwest and
North-East, and on Alexander Winchester to the Northwest.
4G.  Alexander Winchester, twenty acrs :    bounded on the South
East with William Courser, being 80 Rodd in length towards the
Southwest and Noi'th East, and on Henry Burchall to the North
west.
47.  Henry Burchall, fifteene acrs :      bounded on the South-East
with Alexander Winchester, being 80 Rodd in length to the South-
west and North East, and on Robte Turner to the Northwest.
48.  Robert Turner, tenn acrs :    bounded on the South East with
Henr}- Burchall, on the Northwest with Newtowne, being 80 Rodd
in length to the Southwest and North East.
49.  William Denning, tenn acrs:  bounded on the South East
with  Roxbur}-, being 80  Rodd in  length  to the South west and
North East, and on John Arratt to the Northwest.
50.  John Arratt,  tenn acrs :      bounded on the South East with
William Denning, being in length 80 Rodd to the South West and
North East, and on Captaine John Underhill to the Northwest.
[30.]  51.  Captaine John Underhill, fovu-escore acrs: bounded
on the South East with John Arratt, being 92 Rodd in length on
the Northwest syde.
52.  William  Talmage, fifteene  acrs :     bounded on the  South
East with Captaine John Underhill, being 80 Rodd in length to the
Southwest and North East, and upon Thomas Snow on the North-
west.
53.  Thomas Snow, tenn acrs :    bounded on the South East with
William Talmage, being 80 Rodd in length to the Southwest and
North East, and upon Isaack Grosse on the Northwest.
54.  Isaack  Grosse, fiftie  acrs :     bounded on  the  South East
with Thomas Snow, beinge 80 Rodd in length to the Southwest
and North East.
M^ WiUiam Coulborne, a hundred and fiftie  acrs :      bounded on
the North West b}^ Francis Bushnall, Henry Elkin, Richard Faire-
bank and William Pell, to the West by WiUiam Pell, to the  South
by a fresh brooke running betweene him and M"". Cotton, to the
North East by Edward Browne, and to the East by Muddy River.
]VP. John Cotton, all the ground lying betweene the twoe brooks
next unto M^ Coulbornes Allotment, and so to the other end unto
the shortest Cutting over beyond the hill  toward the North West,
Conteyning twoe hundred and fiftie  acrs  (belt more orlesse),
bounded on the North by the said fresh brooke, on the west by John
Cramme and George Bates, on the South by a fresh brooke run-
ning betweene him and M"". Leveritt, and on the East by Muddy
River.
M^ Thomas Leveritt, a hundred acrs ;  bounded on the North b}'
the saj'd fresh brooke running betweene him and M^ Cotton ;     on
 - 50 - 
Boston Town Kecords, 1637.            27
the West by Edward Bendall  and  Philemon Pormont ;     on the
South by M". Oliver, the East end being a sharp Angle.
M"". Thomas Oliver, a hundred acrs :    bounded on the  North with
M^ Leveritt ;     on the West with Robte Meares ;    on the South with
Rocksbur}', the East end being a sharp Angle.
M'. Thomas Oliver,  fifteene  acrs of Marsh :    bounded on the
South with jMuddy River ;     on the West with Jarratt Bourne, the
browes of his Upland being 80 Rodd in length ;      and on the North
with M'". Leveritt.
M\ Thomas Leveritt, fifteene  acrs  of the  same Marsh next
adioyning :      bounded on the South with M''. Oliver ;      on the West
with"the browes of the Upland, there being 80 Rodd in length ;   and
on the North with INF. Coulborne.
M"". William Coulborne, tenn acrs of the same Marsh :     bounded
on the South with M"". Leveritt ;     on the West with the browes of
the Upland, there being 80 Rodd in length ;   and on the North with
Robte Walker.
Robte Walker, five  acrs of the same marsh :      bounded on the
South with  M'. Coulborne ;      on the West with the browes of the
Upland, there being 80 Rodd in length, and 10 Rodd broad.
And for the more cleare distinctions of all these, the Markes and
Lymmitts of the Survayors are extant.
[21.]  The great Allottments  at  Rumley Marsh and Pullen
Point.
ImprjTuis :    M^ Henry Vane, Esq., two hundred acrs :      bounded
on the  South  with M^ Richard Bellingham ;     on the West with
Charlestowne ;   on the North with M"'. Winthropp ;   and on the East
with the highway there.
2.  M''.  John Winthropp, the Elder, a hundred and fiftie  acrs:
bounded on the South with M'. Vane ;     on the West with Charles-
towne ;     on the North with M^ Newgate and James Penn ;      and on
the East with the highway.
3.  James Penn, fiftie  acrs:  bounded on the South and on the
West with M^ Winthrop ;     on the North with M^Newgate ;   and on
the East with the higliwa}'.
4.  M'". John Newgate, a hundred and twelve acrs :    bounded on
the South with M'. Winthrop and James Penn ;    on the West with
Charlestowne ;      on the North with M^ Sanford ;     and on the East
with the highway.
5.  M"". John Sanford, a hundred acrs: bounded on the South
with W. Newgate ;     on the West with Charlestowne ;     on the North
with Thomas Marshall ;   and on the East with the highway.
6.  Thomas Marshall, seventye acrs :   bounded on the South with
M^ Sanford ;     on the West with Charlestowne ;      on the North with
M^ Keine  and Thomas Matson ;       and on the  East with  the
highway.
7.  Thomas Matson, eight  and twenty acrs :       bounded  on the
South and on the West with Thomas Marshall ;      and on the North
with M"^  Keine and Beniamyn Gillam ;    and on the East with the
highwa3^
8.  Beniamyn Gillam, eight and twenty acrs :    bounded on the
 - 51 - 
28              City Document No. 46.
South with Thomas Matson ;       on the West with M^ Keine ;     and
on the North with John Gallopp ;      and on the  East with the
highway.
"9.  John Gallopp, nine and forty acrs :    bounded on the South
with Beniamyn Gillam ;      on the West and on the North with M^
Keine ;     and on the East with the highway.
10.  M^ Robte Keine,  three  hundred  and  fourteene  acrs
:
bounded on the South with Thomas Marshall, Thomas jNIatson and
John Gallopp ;    on the West with Charlestowne ;    and on the East
with Beniamin Gillam, John Gallopp, and the highway.
11.  M'. John Coggeshall, twoe hundred acrs: bounded on the
South with M^ Keine and M"'. Cogan ;    on the West with Charles-
towne ;     on the North with Saugust ;     and on  the  East with  the
Sandy beach unto the mouth of Saugust River.
12.  M'. John Cogan, two hundred and tenn acrs: bounded on
the North with M^ John Coggeshall ;     on the East with the beach
;
on  the  South with  M^ Hardiug ;     and on the  West with  the
highway.
13.  M^ Robte Harding, a hundred acrs :    bounded on the North
with M"". Cogan ;    on the East with the Beach ;    on the South with
Nicholis Willys ;   and on the West with the highway.
14.  Nicholis Willys,  nyne and forty  acrs:  bounded on  the
North with M\ Harding ;     on the East with the Beach ;     on the
South with              ;    and on the west with the highway.
15.  John Odlin, fourescore and foure Acrs:  bounded on  the
North with  Nicholis  Willys ;      and on the  South with  Richard
Tuttell ;    on the East with the beach, and on the highway to the
West.
Some of the AUottments at Pulling Point Necke.
William Stidson, 30 Acrs of upland and marsh together ;   bounded
towards the North and North East by the  said  AUottments of
John Oliver and Thomas Fayreweather, towards the East by the
aforesaid  northermost Creeke,  and towards the  south  by the
AUottments of Edward Baytes, and towards  the West by the
Common highway aforesaid.
Edward Bayts, 14 Acrs of upland and marsh together :    bounded
towards the North by the  said  AUottment of William  Stidson,
towards the East by the said Northermost Creeke, towards  the
South by the Allotment of Thomas Matson, and towards the West
by the said highway.
Thomas Matson, 28 Acrs of upland and marsh together :   bounded
towards the North by the said Allotment of Ed. Bayts, towards
the East by Fishers Creeke, towards the West by the said Way,
and towards the South by the AUottment of M"". Edward Gibones.
M^ Edward Gibones, 110 Acrs of upland and marsh together:
bounded towards the North by the AUottment of the said Thomas
Matson, towards the East and South b3- Fishers Creeke, and the
Common shoi-e, and towards the West by the said highway.
[22.]  These are of the great allottraents at Rumlej- Marsh and
PuUen Point.
 - 52 - 
Boston Town Records, 1637.            29
M"".  Richard Tnttell,  a  hundred threescore  and  one  acres
:
bounded on the North with                         ,   on the East
with the Beach, ou the South with M"'.  Glover, and on the West
with the highway.
M'.         Glover, nyne and fortie aers :   bounded on the North
with M'. Tuttell, on the East with the Beach, on the South with
M''. Dyar, and on the West with the highway'.
INI''.  William Dyar, twoe and fortie aers :   bounded on the North
with M^ Glover, on the East with the Beach, on the South with
M^ Cole, and on the West with the highway.
M^ Samuell Cole, a hundred and live  aers :       bounded on  the
North with W. Dyar, on the East with the Beach, on the South
with M''. William Brenton, and •n the West with the highwa}'.
M^ William Brenton, a hundred sixtie and foare aers :    bounded
on the North with M''.  Cole, on the East with the Beach, on the
South with W. William Aspinwall, and on the West with  the
high way.
M^ William Aspinwall, a hundred sixtie and foure aers :   bounded
on the  North with  M^ Brenton, on the  East with  the  Beach
and M^ Pierce, and on the South and on the West point with
Crooked lane.
The quantitj'cs and bounds of the Lotts at Pullen Pojait Necke.
M"".  William Aspinwall, 22 aers  of upland at  the  nethermost
point  of the  necke, towards  the  south :      it  is  bounded by the
AUottment of Thomas Buttalph, and towards the West by the 6
aers of marsh granted to M^ John Sanford.
John Sanford, 6  aers of Marsh, bounded towards  the  North
,  towards the East by the Upland of William
Aspinwall,  towards the  South  by the  AUottment  of  Thomas
Buttalph, towards the West by the AUottment of the Governor,
M"". John Winthropp, sen''.
Thomas Buttalph,       aers of  Upland and Marsh :     bounded
towards the East and north East by the Sea shore, towards the
South and  South  East by the  Allotment  of William  Peirce,
towards the West and southwest by the  AUottment of Thomas
Fayreweather, towards the Noi'th and North West by the above-
said land of William Aspinwall.
M^ John Winthrop, sen""..  Governor: 50 aers of Upland and
Marsh together :      bounded towards the North by the  great  salt
Creeke compassing Hog Island, Easterly towards the  East by
John Sanfords 6  aers  of INIarsh,  towards  the  South and south
East 1.iy the said AUottment of Thomas Buttalph and Thomas Faire-
weather, and towards the West by the AUottment of John Oliver.
.lohn Oliver, 50 Aers of upland and marsh together :     bounded
towards the North b}- the said great Creeke, towards the East by
the said AUottment of the Governor, M'. John Winthrop, sen"".,
towards the south b}- the AUottments of Thomas Faireweather and
William Stidson of Wynesemitt, and towards  the West b}'  the
AUottment of William JBrenton.
Willyam Brenton,  64  aers  of Upland and Marsh together:
bounded towards the  North by said  great  Creeke, towards the
 - 53 - 
30             City Document No. 46.
East by the said Allottment of John Olyver, towards the South bj-
the Allotment of William Stidson, and towards the West b}-  the
Common shore.
Elias Mavericke, 12 Aers of upland :   bounded towards the North
by the Common shore, towards the East by an higliwa}' 2  rodd in
breadth, running betwecue the Lotts over the Neck, towards the
south by the Allottment of Valentine Hill, and towards the W^est
by the Common shore.
Valentyne Hill, GO Acrs of Upland :   bounded towards the north
by the said Allottment of Elias Mavericke, towards the East by
the said high way, towards the South by the Allottment of Raph
Hudson, and towards the West and southwest  bj-  the  Common
shore.
Raph Hudson, 50 Acrs :     bounded towards the  north  by the
said Allottment of Valentyne Hill, towards the East b^' the said
highway, and towards the south and southwest by the  common
shoare.
Thomas Fa3Teweather, 30 Acrs of Upland and Marsh together ;
bounded towards the North and Northwest by the AUottments of
the Governor, M^ John Winthrop, sen''., and John Oliver, towards
the East and north East by the afforesaid Allottment of Thomas
Buttalph, towards the south and southeast by the Allottment of
W^illiam Peirce, towards the south west b}^ the afforesaid Allott-
ment of William Stidson.
Thomas Fayreweather, 4  Acrs of upland  at  the  Eastcrmost
corner of Raph Iludsons :   bounded l)y his said Allottment towards
the North and West, towards the East by the said high wa}', and
by the Common shore towards the South.
Willyam Peirce,  100  Acrs of Upland and Marsh together
:
bounded towards the north and northwest by the said AUottments
of Thomas Fayreweather and Thomas Buttalph, towards the East
and south East by the sea shore, and towards the southwest by
the said Allottment of the Governor.
All the Remainder of the land, both upland and marsh, to the
southward of the northermost Creeke running up out of Fishers
Creeke or Cove, and from the southwest End of Peirces Lott to
Pulling Point Gutt, being Compassed on all tlie sides with the Sea,
save onely where it Joyneth to M"'. Peirce, belongeth to the said
John Winthrop, Governor.
[23.]  The 29th of the 11 moneth, called January, 1637.
Att a meeting this day of Thomas Olyvar, Thomas Leveritt,
William Hutchinson, WiUiam Coulbourne, John Coggeshall, John
Sanford, William Balstone Robte Harding, James Peune and Jacob
Ellyott, It was agi-eed that Isaacke Cullymore shall have a great
Lott at the Mount for foure heads.
Also Thomas Buttall is  granted a great Lott at  Pullen  Point
necke for six heads.
Also our brother M"".  Raph Hudson is  granted his great Lott
there for six heads.
Also our brother Francis East is  granted his great Lott at the
Mount for twoe heads.
 - 54 - 
Boston Towx Records, 1637.            31
Also Francis EUyott is  granted a great  Lott  tliere  for  four
heads.
Also our brother Richard Wayte is  granted a great Lott there
for fjve heads.
Also M^ Henr}' "Webb is  granted a great Lott there for tenn
heads.
Also our brother Samuell Wayte is  gi-aunted a great Lott there
for foure heads.
Also our brother George Hunne is  gi-anted his great Lott there
for five heads.
The 12th of 12th moneth, Febr., 1C37.
Att a Generall meeting upon Publique Notice.
Att this  meeting M''. Atherton Haulgh, M"'. WiUiam Coulborne
and M"".  John___ Olyvar are  Chosen for deputyes or Comitties for
the service of this next Generall Cort.
The 19th of 12th moneth, [called Febr.,] 1637
Att a meeting this  day of Thomas Olyvar, Thomas Leveritt,
William Coulborne, John Coggeshall, Eobte Harding, John San-
ford,  AVilliam  Balstone, James Penne and Jacob EUyott, It  is
agreed that  M^ John Clarke  shall have a great Lott at Mount
Woollj'stone for tenne heads.
Also there is  graunted to John Love to have a housplott, and
also a great Lott at Mudd}' Ryver.
Also to Abell Porter, having served our brother Thomas Grubbe
foure 3'eares a houseplott and a great Lott at the Mount for twoe
heads.
Also to Richard Awards, to have a housplott upon Condicon of
Innoftensive Carryage.
Also to Thomas Scottoe a gi-eat Lott at Mudd}- Ryver for three
heads.
Also to William Mawer a great Lott att the Mount for nyne
heads.
Also to  Henry Gra}-, Taylor, a  housplott upon Condicon of
Inoffensive Carryage, and to have it on the East side of our brother
Samuell Wilebore.
Also  to James Hawkins a great  Lott at the Mount for  four
heads.
Also to Thomas Hawkins a great Lott there for four heads.
Also to Martha Bushenall, wid., a great Lott there for fyve heads.
Also to brother Edward Denny's a gi-eat  Lott there for three
heads.
Also to brother Isaac Perry a housplott neere to brother Robte
Walkers, and a great Lott at Mudd^' Ryvar, for thr^e heads.
Also to Thomas Bell a housplott neere to M"'.  D3'ar's, and a
great Lott att the mount, for three heads.
Also to John Jackson, Carpenter, a great Lott there for three
heads.
Also to John Crabtree a great Lott there for twoe heads.
Also to Silvester Saunders a  great Lott at Mudd}- Ryvar for
twoe heads.
 - 55 - 
32              City Document Iso.  4G.
Also to Samuell Howard, Taylor, a houslott and a great Lott at
the Mount for three heads.
Also to our brother George Burdon a great Lott there for five
heads.
Also to our brother William Wardall a great Lott there for three
heads.
Also to our brother WiUiam Browne a great Lott there for three
heads.
Also to  our brother Edward Hutchinson the younger a great
Lott there for six heads.
Also to  Raph Mason a great Lott at  Muddy Ryvar for  six
heads.
Also to our brother Robte Scott a great Lott for twelve heads
at the Mount.
Also to Anthony Stann3'on a great Lott there for eleven heads.
Also to John Lowe a great Lott at the Mount for foure heads.
Also to Stephen Kinsley a great Lott there for nyne heads, four
acrs upon a head.
Also to our brother Mathew Chafey a great Lott there for four
heads.
[34.]  The 9th of the 1 moneth, called March, 1638.
Att a Generall meeting upon publique notice.
Att this  meeting M''.  John Newgate is Chosen for a Deputie or
Coiiiittee in the steade or place of M"". AVilliam Coulborne for the
service of the next Generall Court.
The 12* of the same 1st moneth.
Att a meeting this  day of Thomas Olyvar, Thomas Leveritt,
William  Coulborne, Robte Hardinge,  James Penne, and Jacob
Eliott,  there is graunted to Waters Sinnott, Fisherman, to have a
housplott.
Also, there is  graunted to our brother Ol3-var Mellowes, and to
our brother  Nathaniell Chappell,  and to  William  Hudson the
Eldest Sonne of our brother William Hudson, leave of taking in
the corner of ground betweene the last j'ear's new impaled plant-
ing ground and the North East corner of M"". William Blackstone's
pnyles,  our  brother  Mellowes to  have twoe  acrs  thereof,  our
brother Chappell to have one acr thereof, and AVilliam Hudson to
have the residue so that there be  not above an acre of it.
Also, it is ordered that every Inhabitant amongst us shall forth-
with ring and yoake theire swine, and that all  swine within this
towne shall be ringed and yoaked upon paine of every swine found
abroad unrung and unyoaked after the 28 day of this first moneth
for ever^' time so taken ii .s.  vi cZ.,  one halfe to the Towne and the
other to the taker of them, beside answering or making satisfac-
tion for an}'  damage which they shall  have done, and Richard
Fairebancke is appointed to looke unto the observing of this order.
The 2d of the 2d moneth, called Aprill, lff38.
Att a meeting this  day of Thomas Olivar, Thomas Leveritt,
WilUam Coulborne,  Robte  Harding,  William  Balstone,  James
 - 56 - 
Boston Town Records, 1638.            33
Penne aud Jacob Elliott there be garding places granted to our
brethren  James  Johnson,  John  Davisse,  George  Burdon and
Nathaniell Chappell on the  back s^xle  of the Lotts in  the long
streete.
Also to M"". John Mansfield, having served his brother M^ Robte
Keayne, to have a housplott.
Also, it is  agreed that William Hudson shall be the eowkeeper
for this following yeare, aud to have for ever}' cowe goeing upon
the necke a bushell of Corne at harvest, and for every calfe put to
his keeping a pecke of Corne.
Also, it  is  ordered that (according to Court order)  noe goate
shall goe at libertie upon the necke witliout a keeper upon peualtie
for every goate for every time without a keeper xid., beside the
answering of double damage done b}'  them after the xi d da}' of
this moneth, the one halfe to the taker of them and the other to
the Towne, and they to be looked unto by William Hudson the
jounger.
The 16th of the same 2d moneth.
Att a meeting this  day of Thomas Olyvar, Thomas Leveritt,
William Coulborne, Robert Hardinge, James Penne and Jacob
Eliott, It is  agreed that Thomas Sellen shall have a housplott at
the Mount.
Also a great Lott is granted to Edmund Oremsby for three heads
at Muddy Ryver.
Also to our brother Thomas Wheeler a great Lott at Mudd}^
R3'var for three heads.
Also to Jacob Wilson a great Lott there for three heads.
Also to Mawdit Inge a great Lott there for three heads.
Also to our brother William  Coursar a garding place wher a
convenient place for gardinge plotts can be found.
Also it is this day ordered for soe much as our Comon pasturing
is but scant upon the necke, and cowe keepings for the Inhabitants
is  of necessity, that,  therefore,  all  the sheepe on the necke, aud
dr}' cattell, such as are not for draught, shalbe had away from otf
the necke by the last da}' of this moneth, in peualtie for every head
after that time ii s. a Weeke for every weeke after, and the sheepe
not.
Also that all  fence  about  the " Corne feilds  shalbe sufficienth^
made, according to Court order, before the last of this  moneth,
upon peualtie for every rodd then undone iii s. iiii d.  Andto be scene
unto by these men, viz., our brother John Cranwell and William
Salter,  for the feild  by them our brethren  Richard Gridley and
Beniamj'n Gillam, for the Foit Feild, our brethren Olyvar Mellowes,
Thomas Marshall and Jonathan Negoose, for the mylne feild and
the newe feild.
Also there is granted leave to George Griggs to sell  his house,
and garding under it,  and 20 acrs of his great Lott, to M''. Tuttell,
of Ipswich, and M^ Tuttell,  of Charlestowne, for his redeeming
out of theire debts
[25.]  Atthe same meeting the said IGth of the said 2d moneth,
1638, there was a house plott granted to the said George Griggs,
some where towards the new mylne.
3
 - 57 - 
34             City Docuivient No. 46.
Also thei'e is granted to George Harwood, Carpenter, a great Lott
at the Mount, for three heads.
Also there is  granted to William Hudson, the 3'ounger, a gi'eat
Lott att Muddy Rj'var, for three heads.
Also there  is  granted  to William Davisse, the Locksmyth, a
housplott neare  unto the new mylne, upon the usuall Condition of
Inoffensive carrjage.
The 23d of the 2d moneth, called Aprill, 1638.
Att a Generall Meeting this day upon Publique Notice.
Att this  Meeting M^ Atherton Haulgh, M^ Robte Keayne and
M^ John Olyvar, are Chosen for deputies or Committees for the ser-
vice of this next Generall Court.
Also at this Meeting M"". Thomas Olyvar, Thomas Leveritt, M"".
Robte Kea^-ne, M"". William Colbourne, M^ John Newgate, James
Penne and Jacob Elyott, are Chosen, as formerly for tlie  Townes
occasions, for these next six moneths, to be ordered b}' them or by
fyve of them at the least.
The 1 of the 4th moneth, called June, 1638.
Att a meeting this  day of Thomas Olyvar, Thomas Leveritt,
Robert Keayne, William Coulborne, John Newgate, James Penne
and Jacob Elyott,  leave  was granted  to  our brother  Richard
Bi'ockett, to sell  his howse and garding next to William Hudson,
the 3'ounger, unto one Jacob Legar.
Item :     To Samuell Wilbore, to sell  his house and garding plott,
adioyning to that was Barnaljy Derryfalls, unto one M^ Offley.
Alsoe his house and ground next Roxbury unto Samuell Sherman.
The 18th of the same 4th moneth.
Att a meeting this da}- of Thomas Olyvar, Thomas Leveritt,
Robert Keayne, William Coulborne, John Newgate, James Penne
and Jacob Elyott, there was leave granted to John Spoore, late of
Clapton, in  Somersetshire, to buye M''. Wilkes house and ground,
and that his brother, James Mattocke, a Cooper, shall have liberty
to live with him  or in some other place in this towne.
Also that said John Spoore hath leave to buy of George Burdon
a little house neere unto the Coave, next unto Edward Bendalls.
The 9th of the 5th moneth. called July, 1638.
Att a meeting this  day of  Thomas Olyvar, Thomas Leveritt,
Robert Keayne, William Coulborne, John Newgate, James Penne
and Jacob Elyott, it was agreed that Robert Re^'nolds shall have
five acrs of Marsh ground, att Mudd}' Ryvar in  exchange for five
acrs of his upland there, to be layd out b}' M^ Coulborne,
The 23 of the same mo.
Att  a meeting this day of Thomas Olyvar, Thomas Leveritt,
Robert Keayne, William Coulborne, John Newgate, James Penne
and Jacob Elyott, it was agreed that none shall sell their houses,
but with some parte of their great Allotments, without the Con-
sent of the overseers of the Townes occasions.
 - 58 - 
Boston Town Records, 1G38.            35
The 7tb of the Gth moueth, called August, 1G38.
Att a meeting this  day of  Thomas OlyNar, Thomas Leveritt,
Robert Keayue, John Newgate, James Penue and Jacob Elyott,
there was leave grauuted to Francis Lyall to become an Inhab-
itant.
The 20th of the 6th moneth called August, 1638.
Att a Generall Meeting this day upon Fublique Notice.
At this  Meeting M"". Atherton Ilaulgh, M"". Robert Keaj-ne and
M^ John Newgate, are Chosen for deputies or Coiliittees, for the
service of this next Generall Court.
Also M'. Robert Kea^-ne, M'. John Cogau, M"". Willian Coul-
borne and Jacob Elyott, are, at this Meeting, Chosen Overseers or
Surveyers for the Towncs high wayes for this yeare followinge.
Att a meeting tliis  same day of Thomas Olyvar, Thomas Lev-
eritt, Robert Keayne, Willj'am Coulborne, James Penne and Jacob
El^-ott, there  is  leave grauuted to M^ Thomas Cornnell for the
buying of our brother Willyam Balstone's house, and to become an
Inhabitant of this Towne.
The 17th of the 7th moneth, September, 1638.
[3G.]  Att a Meeting this  day of  Thomas Olyvar, Thomas
Leveritt,  Robert  Keayne, Willyam Coulborne,  John Newgate,
James Penne and Jacob Elyott :    Whereas there was a stray sow
that had been  often  taken in the Coi-ne,  and some five  or six
Weeks kept up at  our lirother Fairbancks, and often Cryed, but
noe owner thereof to be knowne. It was therefore praysed to 40s,,-
whereof to Samuell Gryne towards his losses in his Corue 30.s.,
and the Residue allowed to Richard Fairebancks for the Charges
of her keeping all that time.
The 8th of the 8th moneth, 1638.
Att a meeting this  day of Thomas Olivar, Thomas Leveritt,
Robert Keayne, Willyam Coulborne, John Newgate, James Penne
and Jacob Elyott, there was granted to M^ William Tinge,  the
having of his great Lott att Muddy River for Eight persons, and
Fortie and twoe heads of Cattell in present possession, and thirtie
heads to come, foure hundred Acrs and an hundred more.
The 2d of the 9th moneth, November, 1638.
Att a meeting this  day of Thomas Olivar,  Thomas Leveritt,
Robte Keayne,  WilUam  Coulborne,  James Penne  and  Jacob
Elyott, leave is  granted to Richard Rawlings, a plasterer, to buy
Peter Johnson, the Dutchman's house, and to become an Inhab-
itant of this Towne.
The 5th day of the 9th moneth, November, 1638.
Att a Generall Meeting upon Publique notice or Warning.
Att this Meeting M'. John Cogan and M^ Richard Tuttle are
Chosen Cunstables for this following yeare.
Also att  this meeting M"' Thomas Olyver, M'' Thomas Leveritt,
M" Willyam Coulborne, M' Robert Keayne, M'' Robert Hardinge,
 - 59 - 
36              City Document No. 46.
James Penne and Jacob Ellyott are Chosen for the Towne's occa-
sions, as formerly, for this ensuing half yeare.
The 19th day of the same 9th moneth.
Att a meeting this daj' of Thomas Olyver, Tliomas Leveritt,
William  Coulbrone,  Robert  Keayne,  Robert  Harding,  James
Penne, Jacob Ellyott,  it  appeared by a Wryting dated the 2d day
of November last, under the hand of Thomas Painter, that George
Barrill, Cooper, hath for  him and his  heirs and assigns for £28
bought of the said Thomas Painter, his  dwelling-house, with the
Appurtenances, and ground Under it, in this  towne, and whereto
he had the Consent ofthe Townesmen, and soe is admitted a Townes-
man upon Condition of Inoffensive Carrj-age.
Also by another AYriting, dated the 9th of the same moneth, it
appeareth that James Everill  hath  for  £3 sould nnto the said
George Barrill, his heirs and Assignees, a parsell of ground lying
next to the said house, Conteyning in  bredth three  powle, within
one foote.
The 10th day of the 10th moneth, December, 1638.
Att a meeting this  day of Thomas Olyver, Thomas Leveritt,
William Coulborne,  Robert Keayne, Robert Harding, and James
Penne, It is agreed that Arthur Pcrrye shall  have yearely allowed
for his drumming to the Companyupon all  occasions the some of
£5, to be paid by the Towne.
The 24th day of the same 10th moneth.
At a meeting this  day of Thomas Olyver, Thomas Leveritt,
Willyam  Coulborne,  Robert  Keayne,  Robert Harding,  James
Penne and Jacob Elyott,  It  appeared by a Wryting, under the
hand of John Odhn, dated the 19th of the 5th Moneth last past,
that  for  the  sume of  £29 8s.,  he hath sould his great Lott of
84 Acrs att  RomelyMarsh unto M^RichardTuttell of this Towne,
and to his heirs forever.
Also at this meeting, one Willyam Tcffe, a Taylor, is allowed to
bee an Inhabitant, and hath this day fully agreed wilh Jacob Wilson
of his house, and the ground under it, in this towne.
Also Esdras Reade, a Taylor, is this day allowed to bee an In-
habitant, and to have a great Lot at Muddy River for 4 heads.
[37.]  The 21st of the 11th moneth, January, 1638.
Att a Meeting this  day of Thomas Olyver, Thomas Leveritt,
Willin  Coulborne,  Robert  Keayne,  Robert  Harding,  James
Penne  and Jacob Elyott, leave was graunted to John Odlyn to
make Use of a piece of Marsh ground at Muddy River, conteyning
an acre, lying against the third Lott there untill the Towne shall
see occasion for further disposing of it.
Also it appeared to them this day bv a Writing, under the hand
of Nicholas Willys, dated the 27th of the 10th, 1638, that for the
sume of £30 12.s."  6fZ., he hath sold his great Lott of 49 Acrs of
Upland and marsh at Romeley Marsh unto Richard Tuttell of this
Towne and his heirs foi-ever.
 - 60 - 
Boston Town Records, 1638.            37
Also it  appeared by a Writinge,  under the  hand of James
Hawkings, dated the lillh day of the 9 moneth, November (IGoH),
that for the same of £15 he hath sold one dwelling-house in  this
Towne, Wherein George Ruggle lived,  and which he  formerl}'^
bought of M"^. Bi'enton, together with a garden plott Joyning to it,
unto one Henr}' Garrold of this Towne, Tanner, and to his heirs
and assigns forever.
Also it appeared by a Writinge, under the hand of Jacob Will-
son, of this Towne, Sawver, dated the  24th of the 10th Moneth,
December (1G3S), that he hath sold unto Willyam Teffe, of this
Towne, taylor, one house, and a lott under it,  which is now in the
use of the said William Teffe, unto him, and his heirs andAssignes
forever.
Also at this day, Richard Tuttell, our brother, hath undertaken
for one Dorothie Bill, a Widowe, a Soiourner in his  house to dis-
charge the Towne of any Charge that may befall the Towne for any
thing about her.
Also this day, our Brother, Robte Scott, hath for the sume of
£13 16.9. sould 23 Acrs of Upland att  Mudd}' River, that was our
brother Richard Fairebancks great Allottment, unto our brother
Thomas Savidge, his heirs and Assignes forever.
Also this day Willyam Hyricke is allowed to be an Inhabitant.
Also there is this  day granted to the owners of the Wharfe and
Crayne an hundred acrs  of Land at Mount WoUystone, next to
the AUottments alredy graunted, towards the repayringe and maiu-
teyning of the said Wharfe and Crayne.
The 18th of the 12th moneth, February, 1638.
Att a meetinge this  day of Thomas Olj'var, Thomas Leverett,
William  Coulbourn,  Robert  Keayne,  Robert  Harding,  James
Penne, and Jacob Elyott, there is graunted to our Brother Richard
Wright a narrow peece of land  lyeing  at  Mount Woollystone,
betweene the Rocks and the Fresh brooke, to beginne at the end of
the first  Lott,  and to  extend fourescore  Rodd in length to the
furtherance of his Water Mylne building there, and in regard of
his redy serviceablenesse to the Towne's Occasions.
Att this day it hath appeared that the said Richard Wright hath
sold 130 Acrs of land at Mount Woollystone to one M"'. Pane, of
Concord, without the consent of the Towne's Allotters, contrary to
a former Order, and he is therefore to pay for a Fyne to the towne's
stocke, to lie paid at the next Towne's Meeting the sume of £6.
Also there is leave graunted to our Brother Richard Fairbanke
for this next summer to mowe the marsh ground which is against
his acr of planting ground in  the  new feild, as he hath formerl}-
mowen it.
Also there is leave graunted to our brother Henry Pease for this
next summer to move the marsh against his planting ground in the
same feild.
Also there is leave graunted to our brother Edmund Jackson for
this  next summer to mowe the marsh that our brother Willyam
Balstone hath formerly mowen in the same feild.
Also there is leave granted to our brother James Pennyman for
 - 61 - 
38              City Document No. 4G.
this nest summer to mowe the marsh in the New feilcl  as he hath
heretof(n-e mowen the same.
Also there is leave graunted to our Sister, the Widdow Purton,
for this next summer to mowe the peece of marsh in the same feilde
lying under our l)rother Robte Turner's garding payles.
Also it  appeared this  day by a Writing  under the  hand of
Willih Baulston, dated the 5th of August, 1G38, that he hath sould
his house, with all the appurtenences thereunto belonging, And all
the ground that he was possest of (vizt.), the house, yards, gar-
dens, one close on the backside of M"". Coddingtou's, conteyning,
by estimation, one Aci'e (be it more or lesse), and two Acrs, more
or lesse, lyeing in the Millfeild borderingon WaterMcrryall's house,
and three Acrs of Land, more or lesse, on Hogg Hand, and foure-
score  and tenne Acrs, more or lesse, in Mount Willystone unto
Thomas Connell and his heirs forever.
It  is  ordered  that  Edward  Hutchison,  Samuell  Cole,  Robte
Turner,  M^ Robte Harding,  M"".  William Parker  and  Richard
Brackett, shall make sufficient the cart-wa}" against M^ Hutchin-
son's house, under which they drayne their gardens before the 11th
day of this next 1st moneth, upon the [forfeiture?]   [About half a
line at the bottom of the page is worn away.]
[28.]  Further, at the same meetinge it appeared by a Writing
dated  this  same 18th day of 12th Moneth, 1G08, that Thomas
Scottow of Boston,  Joyner,  hath sold to Thomas Grubb of the
same, all his six acrs of ground lying at  Muddy River adioyning
to my Mother's Lott there, and which I bought of her :     In consid-
eration whereof the said Thomas Grubb hath resigned all his right
of three acrs of ground lying in the New feild at Boston, which was
allotted to him by the To^\^ne adioyning unto Isaac Grosses lott on
the one side andWiddow Purton's on the other.
Also at this Assemblythere is granted to M"'. Beniamyn Keayne,
the Sonne of our brother, M''. Keayne, a great Lott of Meadow and
Upland att Monotticott Ryver, in Mount Woollystone, Running to
a long Ridge or hill towards the Fresh Pond there.
The 25th day of the 12th moneth, called February, 1638.
Att a Generall Meeting this day upon Publique Notice.  Att this
meeting M^ Atherton Haulgh, M''. Robert Keayne and Mr. Edward
Gibbon were Chosen  for  Coiuittees or  deputyes  for  this  next
Generall Cort.
The 25th day of the 1st moneth, called March, 1G39.
Att a meeting this day of  Thomas Olyver, Thomas Leveritt,
WiUiam Coulbron, Robert Keayne, James Penne and Jacob El3'ott,
our Brother M^ Gr^ffen Bowen hath a great Lott granted unto
him at Mucldj' River for [blank in original.]
Likewise our brother Richard Holledge hath a great Lott granted
unto him there for three heads.
Also there  is  leave granted to our Brother Valentine Hill to
build a fitting  house and a shopp upon the house plott wliich be
hatli  bought that was our brother M''. William Aspinwall's, and to
lett it to Francis Lysle, Barber.
 - 62 - 
Boston Town Records, 1G39.            39
Also John Horcl, TaA'lor, having served within tins  towne M''.
William Hutchinson for diverse years is Allowed to be an Inhabi-
tant amongst Us.
Also at this meeting our brother Henry Pease hath promised to
fence out the  highway through his ground where he dwelleth, 25
foot broade  from against the Cove neare his dwelling  unto the
Crosse high way by our brother James Everill's before the 1st da^'
of the 2d moneth, Aprill,lG40, npon the forfeture of £5 in default
thereof, and in AVitnesse thereof he hath hereunto sett his hand.
his
Henry -\- Pease,
Further, at this Meeting it appeared by a Writing dated the first
day of August, 1638, that M^ John Underbill hath surrendered
nnto M^ Thomas Makepeace, of Dorchester, his house in Boston
with an hundred akers of upland ground at Muddy River and tcnn
aers of meadow or marsh ground there, and his  share of Wood-
land in the Hands with a garding at the house and another behind
M''.  Parker's house  to the quantity of halfe an acre  and  some
what more, and also neare half an Aker npon the fort hill  for the
some of an hundred pounds.
Also it is ordered that all the Cornefeild fences about the ToAvne
shalbe made sufficient before the eight day of this next 2d moneth
Aprile, upon the penalty ofevery rodd offence then undone iii s. iv d.
and the fence in the feild towards Roxbury to lie lookt unto by our
brethren Willm Coulbron & Jacob Elyott & about the fort feild by
o"" brethren Beniam3^n Gillam and Richard Gridley, and about the
mylnefeild our brethren John Button and Jonathan Negoose, and
about the  Newfeild our brethren Willyam  Hudson and  Richard
Fairbancks.
Also it is agreed that our brother Robert Walker shalbe the Cow
keep for this yeare, to begin the 8th Day of the next 2d Moneth,
and to have for every Cow goeing on the necke untill the  first  of
the nynth Moneth a bushell of Corne at Harvest, and a pecke  of
corne for every calf put to his keeping, and a pecke —[Apparently
a line at the bottom of the page is missing.]
[39.] The same 25th of the 1st moneth, March, 1639.
It is  also  ordered that  the C^rne feild  fence at Muddy River
shalbe made sufficient before the  20th of  this  next 2d Moneth
Aprill, upon penaltie of ever}* Rodd then undone vi s. \'iii d.  And to
be seene unto b}^ our brethren John Audlyn and Edward Baytes.
And for the Charge of the fence the broken up ground to pay for
every acr three thirds thereof, and the unbroken up twoe thirds
of the Charge of every Acre.
Also it is ordered that all drye Cattell that are not Wrought in
the Towne shalbe putt from off  the necke before the  10th of the
next 3d Moneth, in payne for every such beast not put away ii  s.
vi d. for every Week, and the Cow keeper to looke to this order,
and to give a Weeks Warning to the owners of such Cattell, and to
have xii d. a peece after such warning out of the forfeture, and the
residue to be paid to the Townes use, and upon every his  neglect
in not giving Warning; and takins the forfeiture to forfett vi d.
 - 63 - 
40              City Document No. 46.
Also that noe goate shall goe on the necke Without a keeper
after the 10th of this next 2d Moneth, in  paiue for  every goate
for every time so taken xii d., the one halfe to tlie  taker, and the
other to the Towne, besides making satisfaction for any damage
done by them, and old Winge to looke to this Order,
Also it is ordered that the owners of all the hoggs that are found
within this neclie and are not both 3-oked and rung after the 8th of
this next 2d Moneth, sliall pa}'  for all  the damage done by them
as shalbe iudged by twoe of the Brethren, and shall pay xii d. for
every swine for every time soe taken or impounded ;     the one half
to the taker and the other to the Towne.  And in Case any shall
take them up into  their yard,  then forthwith eyther to  lett  the
owners knowe of them, or to sett a note of them upon the Whip-
ping poast, or else to loose both damage and the takeing of them
up.
Further about the Order for hoggs, it  was ordered that in  Case
an}^ shall take them up into their yards tlien  forthwith,  eyther to
lett  the  owners know of tliem, or to send a note of them to the
foldkeeper, to be sett eyther upon one of the poasts of the fould
gate or on the Whipping poast, or else the taker of them into his
yard shall loose both his damage and his part for the taking of
them, and that whoesoever take any such swine shall see that the
forfeiture to the Towne be paid ;    Moreover Wee doe appoint our
brother Richard Fairbanck to be the fould keeper, and to see to
the executing of this order, upon the penaltie of xii d. for everj' his
defalt about this order.
Also Wee Order that none of those that dwell in  any of the
feilds shall suffer any of their swine to goe at libertie in any of the
feilds, though they be yoked and Runge, in paine of v s. a peece
for every time soe taken, the one halfe to the Towne and the other
half to the taker of them.
Alsoe at this meetingone Henry Shrimpton, a Bras^'er, is allowed
to be an Inhabitant in this Towne.
The 29th day of the 2d moneth, called Aprill, 1630.
Att a meeting this  day of Thomas Oliver,  Thomas Leveritt,
Willyam Coulbron, Robert Keayne and Robert Hardinge, It was
agreed upon together, With the Consent of M^ William Peirce,
that there shall be a passage of seven foote wide from the lower
part of M''.  Keaynes garden,  at his  Mud Wall house unto the
Creeke neare Edward Bendalls new house, to be fenced out b}' the
said Willyam Peirce out of his garden, and at his Charges on the
one side, and at the Cliarges of the said Edward Bendall on the
other side, and soe to be maintenj'ed.
Also it is  now agreed upon that  whereas our brother Thomas
Malson Was Allotted for his great Allotment at Rumney Marsh
short b}' the number of twoe heads ;   therefore at the next Alloting
at Mount Woollystone that it shall be made up nnto him at the end
of the lott he hath now bought of our brother Edward Hutchinson,
the Elder.
Also Sarauell Grame is Allowed for an Inhabitant.
 - 64 - 
Boston Town IIecords, 1639.            41
[30.] The i;3th clay of the 3d moneth, called May, 1G39.
Att a Generall  Meeting upon particular  or  private  Generall
notice giveing from house to house.
Att this  Meeting M^ Robert Keayne and Captaine  Edward
Gibon  Were Chosen for  Coinittees or deputyes  for  this  next
Generall Cort.
Also at this meeting M''. Thomas Olyvar, M^ Thomas Leveritt,
M^ Willyam Coulbron,  M"".  Robert Keayne, Captaine  Edward
Gibbons, M'. Willyam Tinge, M'. Robert Hardinge, Jacob Elyott
and M^ John Cogan are Chosen as formerly for the Townes occa-
sions for this next ensueing halfe yeare.
The 27th day of the same 3d moneth.
Att a meeting this day of M". Thomas Olyvar, Thomas Lev-
eritt, M^ Willyam Tinge, Captaine Edward Gibbons, M"". Robert
Hardinge, Jacob Elyott and M^ John Cogan, it is agreed that M^
AVillyam Hibbins shall be admitted an Inhabitant in this Towne.
The 2d day of the 5th moneth, Julye, 1639.
Att a Meeting this da}' of M^ Thomas Olyvar, Thomns Lev-
eritt,  M''. William Coulborne,  M^ Robert Keayne,  M". WiUiam
Tinge and M". John Cogan, it  is  agreed that William Needham,
the Cooper, shall have an acre for his housplott, out of the little
Island att  Mount WooUystone, over against Barnaby Dorryfalls
land, beyond M"".  William Coddingtons brooke.
Also that Stephen Kinsley, husbandman, shall have the residue
of the said Iseland for his housplott there.
Also there is  granted to John Jepson, Shoemaker, a great lott
at the Mount for three heads, twelve acrs, paying for the same, to
the use of this towne, three shillings an acre upon the entrance of
the platforme or bounders thereof,  after the Surveying of it,  and
that to be at the next townes meeting thereunto.
Also there is leave granted to Richard Carter, a Carpenter, to
buy a house, with the  ground under it,  of William Hudson, the
younger, next unto M"". Thomas Olyvars new housplott, upon Con-
dition of Inoffensive Carryage.
Also there is  leave  granted  to Gabryell Fallowell to  sell his
house, garding, and half acre of land in the new feilde, unto one
Richard Bidggood, late of London, Clothworker, upon Condition
of his Inoffensive Carriage amongst us.
The 29th day of the 5th moneth, July, 1639.
Att a meeting this  day of M^ Thomas Olyvar, Thomas Lev-
eritt, M^ Willyam Coulbron, M^ Robert Keayne, Captaine Edward
Gibbon, M^ Willyam Ting,  Jacob Elyott and M^ John Cogan,
there is granted a great Lott to our brother, John Sm^'th, Taylor,
at Muddy River, for three heads.
Also there is leave granted to our brother, Edward Hutchinson,
the j-ounger, in behalfe of his  father, William Hutchinson, to sell
his house in this Towne to  M^ Richard Hutchinson, of London,
lynning draper.
 - 65 - 
42             City Document No. 46.
Also there is granted to our brother, John Hurd, a,  great Lott at
the Mount, for three heads.
Also John Levcritt hath granted unto him a great Lott at Muddy
Elver, for tenn heads.
Also M^ David Offley hath a great Lott, &c.   [This sentence
has been crossed with the pen.]
[31.]  The 12th day of the 6th moneth, August, 1639.
Att a Generall meeting upon Publique Notice.
Att this Meeting  Captaine  Edward Gibon  and M''.  William
Tinge were Chosen, for Comittees or deputyes, for this next Gen-
eral! Court.
The 26th day of the same 6th moneth.
At a meeting this day of M"". Thomas Oliver, Thomas Leveritt,
M^Will^'am Colbron, M"". Robte Keayne, Captaine Edward Gibon,
M''.  AVillyara Tinge, Jacob Elyott and M^ John Cogan. there is
leave granted to M"". Anthony Stoddard, lynning drap. to become a
Townsman.
Alsoe John Seaborne, a Taylor, having served for the space of
three years within this Towne, is granted to be an Inhabitant.
Also our brother, Nathaniell Willyams, is  graunted a great Lott
at Mount Woollystone, for 4 heads.
Also our brother, John Leveritt, is  granted a house plott and
gardensted, next unto our brother Robert Hulls, to be layd out by
our brethren, M'". Willyam Coulbron and Jacob Elyott, building a
good house there upon, by the spring time, or Within six Monethes
after the laying of it out.
Also to  Alexander Plumley, that was M''.  Colbrons  man, is
granted a great Lott at the Mount, for three heads.
The 30th day of the 7th moneth, Sept., 1639.
Att a meeting this day of M"". Thomas Oliver, Thomas Leveritt,
M"'. Willyam Colbron, M'. Robert Keayne, Captaine Edward Gibon,
and Jacob Elyott, there was granted to Thomas Foster, the Gunner
at the Castle Island, a great Lott at  the  Mount, for six heads
upon Condition expressed for Mount.AVoollystone lands.
Also to Cleoment Cole, whoe served with M"". Robert Keayne 4
years, a great Lott there, for seaven heads, upon the like Condition.
Also to Thomas Millard, husbandman, a great Lott at the Mount,
for fyve heads, upon the like condition.
Also to M^ David OfBey, a great Lott at Mudd}' River, for 15
heads.
Also M^ Richard Parker, Marchant, is  allowed  to be an In-
habitant.
Also M"". Thomas Foule is allowed to be an Inhabitant.
The 28th day of the 8th mon., October, 1639.
At a meeting this day of M''. Thomas Oliver, Thomas Leveritt,
M"". Willyam Colbron, M^Robert Keajnie, Captaine Edward Gibon,
M^ Willyam Tinge, Jacob Elyott and M"". John Cogan, It is per-
mitted to Samuell Sherman for the standing of his  Cow house,
 - 66 - 
Boston Town Kecouds, 1G39.            43
which he hath l)uilt  upon the  Common by the  gate next Rox-
bury, nntill the spring time, and then he is to take it dowue unlesse
be have further leave from the Towne for the standing thereof.
Also he hath leave granted unto him for this  next yeare to mow
the plotts of ground compassed about with small Creekes next the
great Creeke betweene Roxbury and us, such as the Cattell use
not to feede upon.
Also a great Lott granted to our brother Nathaniell Woodward
at Muddy River for 3 heads.
Also there is  granted to our brother Thomas Savidge a garden
plott, where it may be Conveniently had, for the hous plott next to
the hous plott granted to our brother John Leveritt and upon the
like Condition.
Also there is  granted to John Robbinson, late servant to our
brother M"". Newgate, a housplott Where it  may conveniently be
had.
[82.]  The same 28 of the 8'. mon. Oct5b. 1639.   At this day
it appeared by a Writing dated the 11th of tlie  3d raoneth,  1639,
that Robert Harding, of Boston, for the sume of £33 6s. 8d. hath
sould unto Richard Tuttell of the same half of his pp Allotment at
RomelyMarsh (comonly so called) ,  being in quantity about 50 Acres
of upland and Marsh together, bounded towards the North by a
strait  line  parting betweene it  and the other half of my pper
Allotment, Towards the East by the Comon sewer. Towards the
South it Adioyneth to Certaine lauds purchased by the said Richard
Tuttell ;     towards the West by the Comon High Way;    With all the
parts of it  and ai)purtenances  belonging  unto it  unto the said
Richard Tuttell and to his heirs forever.
The 25th day of the 9th moneth, Novemb., 1639.
At a meeting this day of M"". Thomas Olyvar, Thomas Leveritt,
M". Willyam Colbron, Captaine Edward Gibon, M"". Willyam Tinge,
M^ Robert Harding, Jacob Elyott, and M^ John Cogan, there is
granted to our brother Thomas Wheelar a hous plott and garden-
stead next unto the housplott the last day granted to our brother
Savidg, and upon like  Condition, to be layd out by our brethren
M"". Willih Colbron and Jacob Elyott.
Also this day M". Edward Tinge is Allowed to be an Inhabitant
here.
Also there is  a great Lott granted to our brother Francis Lysle
at the Mount for 5 heads upon the Condition therein limited.
Also this day John Seaberry, a Seaman hath with leave bought
our brother Water Merrye's house, and half an Acre under it  in
the M3-lne feild, and so is allowed for an Inhabitant.
Also Richard Storer, the Sonne of Elizabeth Hull, the Wife of
our brother Roberte Hull, is Allowed to be an Inhabitant and to
have a great Lott at the Mount for three heads.
Also our brother Arthure Fury hath leave to sell  his house and
garding to Silvester Saunders whoe [hath]  long beene  a servant
in this towne.
Also Nicholis Baxter, a fisherman, is Allowed to be an Inhabi-
tant.
 - 67 - 
44             City Document No. 46.
Also our brother John Milles hath sould to our l)rother Thomas
Savidge the Wood Lott of foure Acrs of Upland and M;irsh at
Hogg Island, and all his right of an Acre and a half of planted
ground in the Newfeild.
Also Thomas Clarke, a locksmith, is Allowed for an Inhabitant
and to be Considered of for a housplott here and a great Lott at
Mount Woolystone for six heads.
Also, Whereas at a former meeting there  was granted to our
brother George Burdon a great Lott at the Mount for five  heads
which as yet hath not beene layd out, and that now he is increased
to eight heads which are now allowed.
[33.]  The IGth day of the 10th moneth, December, 1639.
Att a Generall Meeting upon Publique Notise.
Att this meetinge the orders of the  last  Generall Court were
openly Reade.
Alsoc att  this  meetinge  M"".  John Winthrop,  Governor, M^
Richard Bellingnam, Treasurer, M''.  Willvam Coulbron,  Captaine
Edward Gibon,  M^ Willyam Tinge,  M^ Willyam Hibbon, M^
John Cogan, M^ Robert Harding and Jacob Ellyott are Chosen
as formerly for the Townes Affayrs for these next six Monethes.
Also this day M"". John Cogan and Willyam Hudson the Elder
are Chosen the Cunstables of this Towne for this next yeare.
The 30th day of the same moneth.
Att a Meeting this day of M''.  John Winthrop, Governor, M"".
Richard Bellingham, Treasurer, M"". Willyam Coulborne, Captaine
Edward Gibon,  M'.  Willyam Ting,  M^ Willyam Hibbon, M".
John  Cogan,  M^ Robert  Harding and Jacob Elyott  there is
graunted to Richard Sherman a great Lott for seaven heads att
Muddy Ryver, if it be there to be had.
Also Gregory Belchar hath  a great Lott granted unto him for
13 heads, 52 Acrs at the Mount, paying 3s. an Acre to the use ol
this Towne upon the  entrance of  the bounders thereof after the
Surveying of it.
Also Willyam Potter hath the like granted to him for xi heads,
44 Acrs there, paj-ing 3s. an acre, upon the entrance as before.
Also our brother John Remicke, hath a great Lott  allowed to
him at Muddy Ryver for four heads.
Also our brother, George Curtys, hath a great Lott granted to
him there for two heads.
Alsoe this  day Willj-am Blanton Carpenter is  allowed for an
Inhabitant.
Alsoe Leonard Buttle is this day Allowed for an Inhabitant.
Also Edmund Grosse is this day Allowed for an Inhabitant.
Also this day Richard Woodas, fisherman, is  granted  a great
Lott at the Mount for 3 heads, upon the usuall condition for thai
ground.
At this  day it was agreed that  300 Acrs at Muddy River fo"
perpetuall Commonage to the Inhabitants there and the towne o
Boston, to begin at the outer bounds of M'. Ilibbins Lott, and so
to goe into the Country as the Land will  afford before any othe
allotments are la^d out hereafter.
 - 68 - 
Boston Town Records, 1639.            45
Francis  Dowse,  servant  to  our  brother,  George  Burdon,  is
allowed for an Inhabitant.
Alsoe there is  leave granted this day to our brother, Edmund
Jackson, for this  next summer tvme, to mowe the meadow in the
New feild adioyning to his planting ground there.
Alsoe M'. Edward Tinge hath this day granted unto him a great
Lott  at  the  Mount for  250  Acrs,  adioyning to  the  lands  of
Edward Hutchinson and Thomas Savidge on the upper side of  the
Pond.
Also there is leave granted to our brother, Richard Fairbancke,
for the next Summer, to mowe the marsh ground in the new feild as
he hath formerly mowen.
[34.]  The same 30th day of the 10th moneth, December, 1639.
Whereas,  at  a  former  Meeting,  there  was  granted  to  our
brother, Thomas Scottoe, a great Lott at Muddy River for three
heads, which, as yet, have not beene layd out for  him, and that
now he is  increased to fyve heads.   He is, therefore, now allowed
to have the said Lott for five heads.
The like  also is  granted to John Crabtree for  5 heads at the
Mount and upon Mount land Condicon ;    Whereas he was formerly
allowed but for two heads.
Our brother, Arthure Perry, hath a great Lott granted to him
for 7 heads at the Mount upon the usuall Condition thereof.
The 27 day of the 11th moneth, January, 1639.
Att a meeting this  day of M"". John Winthrop, Governor, M^
Richard Bellingham, Treasurer, M"". Willj'am  Coulbron, Captaine
.
Edward Gibon, M'. Willyam Ting, M^ John Cogan, M". Robert
Harding and Jacob Elyott, it  is  ordered that whereas there was
formerly graunted to M"". John Wheelewright a great Lott of 250
Acrs, 205 Acrs Whereof have beene layd out where parte of the
first AUottraents should have lyen, and that the purchaser of M'.
WheeleWrights grant hath Consented to the parting with the said
205 Acrs for the having in  lue thereof all  the Captaines plaine,
and 80 Acrs more.
Also William Needham hath a great  Lott granted him at the
Mount for 2 heads, 8 Acrs, payinge 3s. an Acre, according to the
agreed order for them of the Mount.
Also Robert Hewstead hath a great Lott granted unto him att
the Mount for eight heads, 32 Acrs, paying 3s. an Acre, to the Use
of the Towne Upon the Entrance of the bounders thereof, after the
Surveying of it.
Also George Wright hath the like  granted to him there  for 3
heads, 12 Acrs, paying 3s. an Acre upon the entrance as before.
Also our brother, Henry Shrimpton, hath granted unto him a
great Lott for 3 heads.
Also onr brother, Richard Hogge, hath the like granted unto
him, for 5 heads there, upon like Condition.
Also he desireth a house Lott and garden plott.
Also our brother, John Spoor, hath a great Lott granted unto
him for 5 heads at the Mount, upon the usuall Condition thereof.
Also there is  granted to Edmund Grosse the square pecce of
ground  adioyning to  William  Letherlands  3'ard,  and bounding
 - 69 - 
46             City Document No. 46.
towards the Beech there for a housplott, excepting one Rodd in
bredth from William Letherlands house plott to Thomas Grubbs
Fish house, which is granted to Willyam Letherland.
Also there is  graunted to Richard Critchle}' a great Lott for 5
heads at the Mount, upon the usuall Condition thereof.
Also our brother, John Gallopp, hath  the  meadow or Marsh
plott in Long Island, being about six acrs, granted unto him as
other men have their planting Lotts there.
Also Thomas Clarke, smith, hath a great Lott granted unto him
for 8 heads at the Mount, upon the Usuall Condition thereof.
[35.]  The same 27th day of the 11th moneth, 1G39.
Our Brother, Edward Bendall, is Appointed to bestow all goods
Whereof the owners are not knowne.
Also all that have businesses for the Townsmens Meeting are to
bring them in  to  M"".  Leveritt,  M''.  Willj'am  Ting, or to Jacob
Elyott, before the Townse Meetings.
Also Samuell Grame hath a great Lott granted unto him for 4
heads at the Mount, upon the Usuall Condition thereof.
Also for endinge the difference betweene the Purchasers of M'.
Wheelewrights lands and the owners of the second division or Lott
at Mount Woollystone, for as much as the said Purchasers cannot
have their lands supplyed in course, as  those of the first Lott had,
without prejudice to many men wlioe have improved their Lotts
;
It is  therefore ordered by Consent of diverse of the partyes, that
the Purchasei's of M"". Wheelewrights lands shall have (in leiue of
the 205 Acrs which was taken awa}^ towards the making up of
what was wanting to the first  dyvision or Lott there) the 43 Acrs
at the end of his Land and the Captaines Plaine, being about 114
Acrs, and that the Widdow Shelleys Sonne, and those whoe chal-
lenge interest in the said Plaine, shall have their parts supplyed,
first served and layde out where noe grant is  alredy made in  per-
ticular,  and together therewith  the  30  Acrs remayning of M''.
Wheelewrights proportion besides ;    and the Purchasers are to have
in lew of the Residue more than the 30 Acrs which they Allowed to
the said Widdow Shelleys sonne, and the Rest, such proportion of
the Rocky grounds l3'ing next the said Playne and the  said 43
Acrs as the Surveyors upon view shall finde answerable to the  18
Acrs remayning to them.
At this meeting Robert Mears hath sould to Dorothie Bill, Wid-
dow, for her life, and to her Sonne, James Bill, with her, to him and
his heirs his house and gardenstead under it  Wherein they now
doe dwell.
Robert Bradford, Taylor, allowed to be an Inhabitant.
Also to our Brother Anthony Stoddard there is granted a great
Lott of  100 Acrs upon the Condition thereof.
Also there is  granted to M^ Thomas Foule a great Lott of 600
Acrs Att
Also to  M^ Samuell Mavericke  a  great  Lott  of  400  Acrs
att
Also to Henry Messenger a great Lott at Muddy River for 2
heads.
Also to our brother Josua Scotto a great Lott there for 3 heads
 - 70 - 
Boston Town Records, 1639-40.          47
Also to Thomas Painter, Joyner, a great Lott at Muddy River
for 4 lieads.
Also there is granted to brother Robert Hull six Acrs of Upland
ground at Hog Island.
Also Beniamyn Negoose, a Salter, is Allowed to be an Inhabitant.
[36.] The same 27th day of the 11th moneth, January, 1039.
It  was  agreed  with  our  Neighbors  and  Brethren  of  the
Mount,  viz. :        William  Cheesebrough,  Alexander  Winchester,
Richard Wright, James Pennyman, Stephen Kinslc}^, and Martin
Saunders, in the name of the Rest there (for whom the}' under-
tooke) that the}' should give to this Towne of Boston towards the
maintenance thereof 4s. an Acre for every 2 Acrs of the 7 Acrs
formerly granted to divers, then of Boston, upon expectation they
should have Continued With Us ;     And 3s. an Acre for every Acre
that hath beene, or shalbe, granted to any others whoe are not In-
habitants of Boston ;   andthat in Consideration hereof, and after that
the said portions of money shalbe payd to this Towne's Treasurie
of Boston, all the said lands shalbe fi-ee from any Towne Rates or
Charges to Boston, and also from all Countrie Charges when the
Mount shalbe Rated by the Court, b}' it  selfe, and not Assessed
with the  Towne of  Boston;  And upon these Termes.,  If  the
Court shall think fitt to grant them to be a Towne of them seh^es,
they shall have free liberty to Accept thereof ;    Provided that this
Order shall not extend to any more or other Lands than such as
shall make payment of the said Rates soe agreed upon of 4s. and
3s. an Acr.  And upon the former Consideration, there is granted
to the  Mount all  the  Rocky ground l3nng  betweene the  Fresh
brooke and M"". Coddington's brooke, Adioyning to M''. Haulghe's
Farme, and from the west Corner of that Farme to the South west
Corner of M^ Hutchinson's Farme, to be Reserved and Used in
Comon for ever by the Inhabitants and Land holders there,  to-
gether with one other parsell of Rockie ground neare to the Knight's
necke, which was left  out liy the  third  Company of Lotts  (ex-
cepting all  such grounds lying among or neere the said  Rocky
grounds, formerly granted out in Lotts to particular Persons.
Also there is granted to M''. William Thompson, Pastor of the
Church at the  Mount, 120 Acrs of Land there, Free from the
foresaid Rate of 3s. per Acre.
Also there is granted to M^ Henry Flint 80 Acrs of Land there,
in like sort, Free from the said Rate of 3s. per Acr.
Also there is granted to John Lugg a great Lott, for 9 heads, at
the Mount, upon the LIsual Conditions.
Also there is further granted to M"'. William Ting, in regard that
his great Lott at Muddy River is not yet la^d out, nor could be in
regard the Bounders between Boston and Roxbury were but lately
determined, and that now the number of his Persons and Catteil
are increased, there is further granted to him an hundred acrs more
to be l-ayd unto his Lott formerly granted.   The Brethren's Lotts
and the Commonage there alredy granted being first  layd out.
*        [37.]  The same 27th day of the Uth moneth, January, 1639.
Also Att this Meeting John Vyall, Weaver, is Allowed to be an
Inhabitant.
 - 71 - 
48              City Document No. 46.
Also there is  granted to M"". Beniamin Keayne a great Lott at
Mount Woolyston, of 200 Acrs (be it  more or  lesse),  as it  is
alredy layd out with markes and stakes towards the North with
M^ Haulghes great Allottment ;    towards the East with Lands yet
in  Comon ;       towards  the  South  with  Monotecott Ryver,  and
towards the "West with the great Pyne Swampe.
Also there is granted 500 Acrs of Land at Mount Wooliston,
Where it  may be Conveniently laj'd  out for  the use of the Can-
oneere of Boston Wheresoever he is, or shall be, in the service
thereof from time to time.
Also tliere is granted to our Elder, M"". Thomas Olyvar, all  the
fresh meadow belonging to Boston lying under the foote of the
great Hill at Muddy River next Newlowne bounds there.
Also there is granted to Mr. William Coulbron, a parcell offresh
meaddowe adioyning to the little fresh brooke parting betweene us
and Newtowne bounds at Muddy River, and Running into Charles
Ryver there.
Also there is 2,000 Acrs to be sett a part at the Mount for the
use of this Towne in the most Convenient place unallotted.
The 24th day of the 12th moneth, February, 1639.
At a Meeting this day of M"". John Winthrop, Governor, M''.
Richard Bellingham,  Treasurer,  Captaine  Edward Gibon,  M'.
Willih Ting, M^ William Coulbron, M^ John Cogan, M^ Robert
Harding, and Jacob Elyott, there is  granted to  M''. Richard Par-
ker a great Lott of 400 Acrs at the  Mount, besides the  hundred
Acrs given to the Wharfe, and to be laid out together.
Also there is granted to Lewys Kidby a houslott on the Marsh
next unto John Lowes, twoe Rodds towards the Sea in  bredth,
and 4 Rodds in length on the backeside.
Also there is  granted to  William Blanton,  Carpenter, a great
Lott at  Muddy River, for 3 heads and a houslott on the necke
Where it may be had.
Also there is  granted to  Leonard Buttles,  bricklayer, a great
Lott at Muddy River for 4 heads.
Also Edward Fletcher, Cutler, is Allowed to be an Inhabitant,
and to have a housplott Where it may be had.
Also there is leave granted to  our brother Richai-d Brackett to
mowe the  Marsh lying in  the  Newfeild, Which he hath usually
mowen, for this next Summer time.
Also our brother, Arthure Perry, hath a housplott granted him.
Also our brother, Richard Hogg, the like.
Also our brother, John Hurd, the like.
[38.]  The same 24th day of the 12th mon. Feb.
At this Meeting William Briscoe, taylor,  is  Allowed to  be an
Inhabitant,  and to  have a great  Lott,  for  eight heads,  at the
mount.
Also John  Marshall,  husbandman, having  served  with our
brother, M^ Edward Hutchinson, is allowed an Inhabitant.
Also there is granted to ould Robert Wing a great Lott at Muddy
River, for 4 heads.
 - 72 - 
Boston Town Records, 1639-40.          49
Also the like is granted to Lew3's Kidb}', Fisherman, for 2 heads,
at the Mount, upon the Usuall Condition.
The like is granted to John Moore, the Governors servant, for 3
heads.
The like is granted to brother Thomas Mekyns, the j-ounger, for
7 heads.
The like is granted to George Barrell, Cooper, for 9 heads there.
The like is granted to WilUam Kirkby, Fisherman, for 3 heads
there.
The like is granted to John Arnould, Plasterer, for 2 heads there.
The like is granted to Richard Carter, Sawyer, for 3 heads thei-e.
Thelike is granted toWaters Sinnott, Fisherman, for3headsthere.
Also there is granted to Thomas Jewell, of the Mount, Milner,
for three heads, 12 Acrs, upon the Covenant of 3s. p. Acre.
The like to M^ Danyell Welles, of the same, for 20 heads, 80
Acrs there, upon the same Covenant of 3s. p. Acre.
The like to Peter Brackett, of the same, for 12 heads, 48 Acrs
there, upon the same Covenant of 3s. p. Acre.
The like to Samuel Allen, of the same, for 7 heads, 28 Acrs
there, upon the same Covenant of 3s. p. Acre.
The like to Will^'am Allyce,* of the same, for 3 heads, 12 Acrs
there, upon the same Covenant of 3s. p. Acre.
Jacob Wilson, of the same, hath the like, for 4 heads, 1-6 Acrs
there, upon the same Covenant of 3s. p. Acre.
The like  to John Reade, of the same, for 11  heads, 44 Acrs
there, upon the same Covenant of 3s. p. Acre.
The like to Robte Stephens, of the same, for 3 heads, 12 Acrs
there, upon the same Covenant of 3s. p. Acre.
The like to George Rose, of the same, for 5 heads, 20 Acrs there,
upon the same Covenant of 3s. p. Acre.
The hke to Henry Addams, of the same, for 10 heads, 40 Acrs
there, upon the same Covenant of 3s. p. Acre.
[:^9.] The same 24th day of the 12th moneth, Feb. 1639.
And at the sameMeeting there was granted to Thomas Place, of
MountWooUystone, for 5 heads, 20 Acrs there, upon the Covenant
of 3s. p. Acre.
The like  to  John Ilarbar,  of tbe same, for  3 heads, 12 Acrs
there, upon the same Covenant of 3s. p. Acre.
The like to Beniamyn Albye, of the same, for 3 heads, 12 Acrs
there, upon the same Covenant of 3s, p. Acre.
The like to Thomas Simons, of the same, for 10 heads, 40 Acrs
there, upon the same Covenant of 3s. p. Acre.
The like  to John Marchant, of the same, for 2 heads, 8 Acrs
there, upon the same Covenant of 3s. p. Acre.
The like to George Poffer, of the same, for 5 heads, 20 Acrs
there, upon the same Covenant of 3s. p. Acre.
The like to John Paflfl\'n,  of the same, for 2 heads, 8 acrs there,
upon the same Covenant of 3s. p. Acre.
The like to Robert Sharpe, of the same, for 4  heads, 16 acrs
there, upon the same Covenant of 3s. p. Acre.
* This name may be read AUyee,
 - 73 - 
50             City Document No. 46.
The like to John Dasset, of the same, for 7 heads, 28 Acrs there,
upon the same Covenant of 3s. p. Acre.
The like to Thomas Blysse, of the same, for  9 heads, 36 acrs
there, upon the same Covenant of 3s. p. Acre.
The like to Thomas Gilbert,  of the same, for 7 heads, 28 Acrs
there, upon the same Covenant of 3s. p. Acre.
The like to Henry Neale, of the same, for 3 heads, 12 Acrs there,
upon the same Covenant of 3s. p. Acre.
The like to Henry Maudsley, of the same, for 3 heads, 12 Acrs
there, upon the same Covenant of 3s. p. Acre.
The hke to James Covey, of the same, for 4 heads, 16 Acrs there,
upon the same Covenant of 3s. p. Acre.
The like to Samuell Bitfeild,  of the same, for 5 heads, 20 Acrs
there, upon the same Covenant of 3s, p. Acre.
The like to James Clarke, of the same, for 2 heads, 8 Acrs there,
upon the same Covenant of 3s. p. Acre.
The like to James Wiseman, of the same, for 3 heads, 12 Acrs
there, upon the same Covenant of 3s. p. Acre.
The like is granted to John Collyns, of Monaticott,  at Mount
WooUystone, for 3 heads, 12 Acrs there, upon the same Covenant
of 3s. p. Acre, to the use of this towne.
The like to Christofer Collyns, of the same, for 2 heads, 8 Acrs
there, upon the same CoA'enant of 3s. p. Acre.
The like to George Aldrich,  of the same, for 5 heads, 20 Acrs
there, upon the same Covenant of 3s. p. Acre.
The hke to Anthony Newton, of the same, for 3 heads, 12 Acrs
there, upon the same Covenant of 3s. p. Acre.
The like to Mathevv Smyth, of the same, for 5 heads, 20 Acrs
there, upon the same Covenant of 3s. p. Acre.
[40.] The same 24th day of the same 12th Moneth. February,
1639.
Att this Meeting there was gi-anted to John French, of Monati-
cott, at Mount WooUystone, a great Lott thei-e,  for 5 heads, 20
Acrs, and 20 Acrs more at his request to witt 40 Acrs in all there,
upon the Covenant of 3s. p. Acre.
The like to JohnMiles, of the same, for 6 heads, and 20 Acrs more
there, being in all 44 Acrs, upon the same Covenantof 3s. p. Acre.
The like to Richard Rockett, of the same, for 5 heads, and 20
Acrs more, there being in all 40 Acrs, upon the same Covenant of
3s. p. Acre.
The like to Nicholas Hathwa}', of the same, for 4 heads, and 20
Acrs more, there being in all 36 Acrs, upon the same Covenant of
3s. p. Acre.
The like to Thomas Bird, of the same, for 4 heads, and 20 Acrs
more, there being in all 36 Acrs, upon the same Covenant of 3s. p.
Acre.
The like to George Sheppard, of the same, for 2 heads, and 10
Acrs more, there being in all 18 Acrs, upon the same Covenant of
3s. p. Acre.
The like to Thomas Tayer, of the same, for 9 heads, and 40
Acrs more, there being in all 76 Acrs, upon the same Covenant of
3s. p. Acre.
 - 74 - 
Boston Town Records, 1640.            51
The like to Dan^'ell Lovell and his mother, of the same, for 3
heads, 12 Aei's there, upon the same Covenant of 3s. p. Acre.
The like  to David  Rogers,  of the same, for 2 heads, 8 aers
there, upon the same Covenant of 3s. p. Acre.
The like to John Onyon, of the same, for 2 heads, 8 Acrs there,
upon the same Covenant of 3s. p. Acre.
Alsoe at this Meeting it appeared by a "Writing under the hand
of one Willyam Mawer, late  of this  Towne, husbandman, dated
the 7th day of this  12th moneth Called February, 1639, that the
said Willyam Mawer hath for the sume of £15, unto him in hand
paj^d, sould to Captaine Edward Gibon, of the same, one house
and garding plott,  Conteyning b}' estimacon half an Acre (be it
more or  lesse)  wdth  the  buildings thereupon and appurtenances
AVhatsoever belonging to the same, within this Towne now in the
occupation of one Willyam Teffe, taylor, unto him the said  Cap-
taine Gibon and to his heirs and Assignes forever.
Also at this Meeting our brethren Edward Randsford and Wil-
lyam Hudson are appointed to accompany' the Surveyor to laj'e out
the planting ground at Long Hand, and they are to beginne at the
East end, and if an}' have bestowed any labor upon that Which
shall fall  to another man, he Whoe shall enioye the benefitt there-
of, shall  eyther allow for  the Charge, or Cleare soe much for the
other.
[41.]  The 30th day of the 1st moneth, March, 1640.
Att a Meeting this day of M"". John AVinthrop, Governor, Cap-
taine Edward Gibon, M"". William Colbron, M'. William Ting, M'.
John Cogan, and Jacob Elyott.
On this day Captaine Edward Gibon, for the Some of £16, hath
sould unto Willyam Teffe, of this  Town, taylor, and to  his heires
and assignes fox-ever, one house and garding plott, with the buildings
thereupon and appurtenances belonging to the same, AVithin this
Towne, sometime Willyam Hudson's, the elder, and now in the
possession of the said Will3am Teffe, and Which he the said Cap-
taine Gibon lately purchased of one Will3'am Mawer, late of this
Towne, husbandman.
Also it is ordered, that M^ Willyam Coulbron and Jacob Elyott
shall sett out to brother John Odljn such quantity of Marsh ground
at Muddy River as they shall thinke Convenient for him, and shall
Certify the same at the next Towne's meeting that a pryce may be
sett of the same, upon payment Whereof the said Marsh ground to
be granted to the said John Odlyn and to his heirs forever.
Also, Consideration to be had of brother Sargient Savage, his
demaund to have the overplus land at HoggHand, Whichhe bought
of divers men, sett out unto him.
Also, at this Meeting John Freind, Carpenter, now dwelling in
this Towne, is to be allowed an Inhabitant thereof.
Also,  John Palmer, Carpenter, now dwelling  here,  is  to  be
allowed an Inhabitant, if he can gett an house, or land to  sett  an
house upon (it being not proper to allowe a man an Inhabitant
Withou[t] habitation
.
Also William Needham of the Mount, hath granted unto him 12
Acrs there, upon the Coven*, of 3'. p. Acre.
 - 75 - 
52              City Docuivient No. 46.
Also agreed upon that henceforth there shalbe noe land granted
eyther for housplott or garden to anyperson out of the open ground
or Comon Feild  Which is  left betweene the Centr}' Hill and M^
Colbrons end ;   Except 3 or 4 Lotts to make up the streete  from
bro. Eobte Walkers to the Round Marsh.
Also it is ordered that notice shalbe given by the Cunstables unto
such as have not built upon their house Lotts which have beene
sett out to them above a ^-eare, that they come to the nextmeeting
to shew Cause why their  Lotts should not be gi-anted  to  others
according to the Originall grant ;    and if the}' come not, that then
the Towne Will dispose of them.
Also it is agreed that Edwaixl Baytes (in regard of his absence
at Isle Sables) shalbe allowed 6 monethes to build upon his Lott
;
otherwise he Consents to leave it to the Towne, his Charges being
allowed to the Value.
Also it  is ordered that the Streete from M"". Atherton Haulghes
to the Centry hill to be layd out, and soe kept open for ever.
Also the great Lott formerly granted to Thomas Hawkins, at the
Mount is now Confirmed to Him, and 5 Acrs more Added to it,  in
regard of some damage he sustaynes in  the  ground Where he
dwells, by the laying out of Highwayes on both sides of it.
Also M"". Willyam Colbron and Jacob Elyott are appointed to
lay out the high Wayes at Muddy River, towards Cambridge.
Also William Davis, gunsm^'th, hath granted him a  great Lott
of 20 Acrs at the Mount, upon the usual Covenant for such Lotts.
Also it is agreed that William Hudson, the elder, shalbe  Com-
mended to the  Court, that he may have Allowance to keepe an
Ordinary.
Also AVilliam Briscoe, Taylor, hath granted him an houselott in the
Way betweene Robte Walkers and the Round marsh, to be sett
out by M^ Colbron and Jacob Ellyott.
Also it is ordered that Richard Fairebancke and William Salter
shall looke to the fences in the feild  next Roxbury, and likewise
Beniamin Gillam and Edmund Jacklyn for the Fort feild, and also
William Hudson and Edward Bendall for the new feild, and further
also M''. Valentine Hill and John Button for the milne feild fences.
[42.] The 20th dayof the 2d moneth, called Aprill, 1640.  Att
a Generall meeting upon publique notice.  At this meeting Captaine
Edward Gibon and M"".  W^illyam  Tinge where  Chosen for  the
Comittees or Deputyes of this Towne for this next Generall Court.
The 27th day of the 2d moneth, called Aprill, 1640.
At a meeting this  day of M^ John Winthropp, Governor, M^
Richard Bellingham, Assistant, Captaine Edward Gibbones, M"".
WilliamColbron, M^William Ting, M'. John Cogan, &Jacob Eliott.
It was Ordered, First, that AVilliam Hibbins should have his greate
Lotte at muddy River (yf it be there to be had) as neare his land he
bought as may be without wrong to others ;     and for this end M'.
Colebron and goodman Eliott are to vue the place, and Certifie  at
the next meeting what may bee donne.
2dly.   There is graunted to M^ William Ting a parcell of the
 - 76 - 
Boston Town Records, 1640.            53
marsh lieing next that he bought of M^ John OUver, 4 Rodd in
breadth, and soe the whole length of the marsh.
3rdly.   Upon M^ Tresurcrs* motion for a peece of marsh at the
end of that where his sawpitt is, It is  referred to view before tlie
next meeting.
41y.  Forthe difference betwixtM"". Oliver and Nich. Carter about
a fence, Carter is for the present to make up the fence he pulled
downe. And yf the next Generall Court shall make any order for
fences it shall bee disposed accordingly.
51y.  Samuell Sherman is alowed a Lott at the mountfor fifteene
heads.
6.  John Scarlett is allowed a lott at the mount for twoe heads.
7.  Ed. Goodwine is alowed a lott at the mount for twoe heads.
8.  Samuell Sherman is allowed that his Cowe house may stand
near Roxburie gate, where it now is, and he is inioyned to sett his
fence straight, soe as he doe not incroch upon the high way.
9.  The parcell of marsh at Hogg Island is tendered to goodman
Marshall and goodman Raynolds and B.  Gridley,  to  be sould to
tbem att such rates as shall be agreed.
fll.  Peter the dutch man, is allowed one acre at Long Island.
12.  The house Lott formerly graunted to Bibble, which he hath
forfetted for not building upon it, according to the order. Is now
graunted to Joh. Robertsoune, provided he buylt upon it within six
monethes.
13  John Woodward is  allowed a howselott next Henry Gray,
provided he build upon it within six moneths.
[43.]  14.  Robert Walker is  alowed the howse lott next his
house to make a garden, Provided that he put of that which is
now his garden on the other side the way, to be a house Lott.
15.  Ed. Goodwine is  graunted a howse Lott next to WiiHa.
Briscowe, provided hee build on it within six moneths.
16.  Ed. Grosse is  graunted a Lott for twoe heads at muddy
River, if it be there to be had after former graunts are served.
17.  Natha :   Wilhs is  spared for Cleareing halfe an acre  of his
ground at spectackell Island, in I'egard  his  servant did scaid his
legg.
18.  James Davis is allowed three acres at long Island.
19.  Seriant Savage is graunted tenn acres of upland at  hogg
Island for £4, to be set out of the over plus Land.
20.  All drie Cattle are to bee removed of the neck within foure-
teene dayes upon paine of five shillings the weeke for every beast,
exceptworkeingbeests, and noe man is to keepe above twoe Cowes.
21.  Willia. Hibbins is  Chosen Treasurer for the towne stock,
which shall arise of sale of Lands, or b^' any other waies then by
ordinary rates, to Continue untill another be Chosen in his place.
22.  George Burden, his Lott at long Island is  (by his Consent)
assigned to Ed. JacUsonne.
23.  John Odline is to have 8 Acres of marsh at muddie river for
£4, which he payed downe ;   and Ed. Grubb six acrs  there for £3 ;
* The margin says Mr.Bcllingham's motion ;   he was formerly treasurer,
t No item No. 10 is on tlie Record.
 - 77 - 
54             City Document No. 46.
and Ben. Gillum 10 Acrs for £5 ;   and Joh. Davis 8 Acrs for £4. to
be set out b^' M''. Coleburne and Goodman Eliott after M"'. Hibbins
is served.
24.  All swine are to be suflfieiently jocked, except such as have
akeeper with them, upon paine of forfeture for every swine above six
weekes ould not so jocked ;    2s. for every time any swine shall  be
taken unyockcd, whereof the one halfe shall goe to the prosecutor;
this order is to take place from the 8th of the 3d moneth.
25.  The residue of the ground not graunted at  long island  (yf
Siuj be) is graunted to Ben :   Gillum.
The 25th of the 3d moneth, called May, 1640.
At a meeting this day of M"^. William Ting, Treasurer, M"". Wil-
liam Coleburne, M^ John Cogan, BrotherJacob Eliott, and William
Hibbins, it was ordered
Imprymis :   M''. Edward Ting is  graunted to  digg Turfe of the
Island lieing among the flatts by mill feild going to Charlestowne.
[44.] Also to William Hibbins is graunted a parcell of meddowe
at Muddy River Containing by estimation about 10 Acres inclosed
by a greate swampe on the one side and greate rocks on the other,
provided  it  fall  not  in  any former  graunt ;     if  wee can belter
accomodate him heare after he is content to resigne his againe.
It is agreede and Consented unto in regard our brother Everell
hath a great parcell of woode and timber to land heare this present
yeare, that he shall make use to himselfe for the time being, namely
for this present winter following of the quantitie of eight Eodds or
there about, betweene the beach and the sea, and that the timber he
may rowle upon the marsh, provided he keepe a faire passage for
other men to passe with their wood or with any other Loadeing.
Chrystopher Stanley is promised  the  refiisall  of six  acres  of
upland in Hog iland on purchase, yf it be there to be sould.
There is an over plus of land in brother Buttons greate lotte at
Mount Wollaston,  the which is  to  make up the lotts of those
breethren that are shorte in theires, and the residue is to be sould,
and the money to bee put into the towne Tresury of Boston.
As alsoe another parcell of land lieing neare the new fence, the
which for like purpose is to be sould.
The 29th of the 4th moneth, 1G40.
At a meeting this day of M^ Richard Bellingham, Deputie, M*".
John Winthrop, M^ Ting, M^ Cogan, M^ Coleburne,  Brother
Eliott, and William Hibbins, it was Ordered
That the 400 Acres formerly graunted to M"".  Richard Parker,
together with the 100 Acres due to him, in right of the wharfe, are
now appoynted to bee set out to him upon monotacott River next
to M^ Beniamine Canes farme, and soe in all  he is  to  have  500
acres in the same place.
Cotton Elack hath a howselott graunted imto him in the way from
M^ Coleburnes house to the sea next to Goodman Briscoes.
Robert Ilowen is  graunted a greate lott  upon the land near
Braintree for fower heads.
John Viall hath a greate Lott graunted him at the mount for 4
heades.
 - 78 - 
Boston Toavn Records, 1640.            55
[45.]  George Barrell is graunted to have that acre of ground
at Spectackell Island which was passed over to him by Goodman
Smith.
The last 2d day of the 5th moneth, 1640.
At a meeting this day of the deputies, M^ Winthropp, Captaine
Gibons, M^ Ting. M^ Coleburne, M". Cogan, brother Eliott,  and
William Hibbins, It was ordered,
And time was given to those, the brethren, with others of the
mount, upon their request that the payment for some Certaiue parte
of the land they houkl there according to an oixler agreed on afore
entered in this sayd booke should bee as followeth :    The first  p:iy-
ment on the 3d day of the 10th month, 1G40, at which time the
one halfe is to be pa^'d either in  Corne, Cattle, or mone3'S accord-
ing to the then rate of Corne, or Cattle.   And the other parte or
halfe on the  3d of the  10th  mouth,  1G41,  in  the like,  to  bee
payd in into the towne tresurie of Boston,
The 31st of the Gth moneth, 1G40.
At a meeting this day of M'. Deputie, JP. Coleburne, M^ Cogan,
brother Eliott, and WiUiam Hibbins  It is ordered
ThatWilliam Douglas is allowed to be a townseman, he behaving
himselfe as becometh a Christian man.
It is also ordered, that the parcell of marsh ground unallotted
at hogg Island, formerly tendered to our brother JMarshall,  brother
Gridley, and brother Raynolds to purchase, is now resigned up to
our Brother Marshall, by our brother Raynolds and our brother
Gridley, hee paying for the same twenty shillinges worth in postes
and railes for the townes use.
Theodor Atkinsone is graunted his greate Lott, for twoe heades
at muddle River, yf it be there to bee had after others are  served
that had their graunts before him.
The 28th of the 7th moneth, 1G40.
At a generall townes meeting,  M^ William Tinge,  Treasurer,
and William Hibbins are appoynted deputies for  this  the  next
generall Courte.
Atthe same meeting there were chosen Townsmen for  the six
moneths following,  M^ Richard Bellingham, Deputie, M'.  John
Winthropp, senior, M'. WilliamTing, Treasurer, Captaine Edward
Gibons, ]M^ William Coleburne, brother Jacob Eliott,  M^ John
Nugate, M^ Atherton Howgh, and Willam Hibbins.
For surveiors of the high waies, M"".  John Nugate and Brother
Jonathan Negus ;     and for towne Crier, William Courser.
[46.]  [Blank in the original.]
[47.]  The 28th of 7th moneth, 1G40.
Att a meeting this day of Captaine Edward Gibones, M^William
Ting, senr., M"". Coleburne, brother Eliott, and AVilliam Hibbins.
Mr. Henry Webb hath graunted unto him 200 acres  without
allowance at mount willaston,  beyond monotocott river, adioyning
to M".  Edward Ting and M'. Edward Hutchinson's farmes.
At the same meeting our brother Robert .Scott hath the like 200
 - 79 - 
5Q              City Document No. 46.
acrs grauntecl him there, namely, aclio3'ning to our brotherWebb's,
without alowauce for rockienes or swampe.
The 2Gth day of the 8th moneth, 1G40.
Att a meeting this  day of M^ Richard Bellingham, Deputie,
John AVinthropp, Esquire, M^Atherton Howgh, M"^. William Ting,
sen"". Captaine Edward Gibones, M^Nuegate M''. Coleburne, brother
Jacob Eliott, and M". William Hibbins.
There is sould to our brother John Odline one Aci-e and halfe of
marsh at mudd}- river, adioyning to the 8 acres formerly graunted
& sould to him, for the which he hath payd in hand 15.s-.
Also at the same meeting our brother Thomas Grubb and our
brother Garrett Bworne are appoynted overseers of the fence at
muddy river in the Common feyld to See it  made by the first  of
Aprill ;     and in default of every Rod not then repaired and made,
the owners of the said land are to forfett 3s.  4c/.  p.  rod ;     and the
said overseers shall have power from the townsemen to distraine for
such moneys soe groing due.
Our brother Peter Oliver hath graunted unto him sixtie acres of
Land at muddy river, yf it bee there to be had ;    ofthe which there is
graunted some marsh, if there be any there,  always provided that
the graunts before graunted are first served.
Our Brother James Oliver hath graunted to him 40"* acres  at
mudd}^ river, if it be there to be had, when those afore graunted
are served.
There is at this meeting a bridg appoynted to be made at muddy
river ;    M". Coleburne, our brother Eliott,  and our brother Peter
Oliver are appoynted to see the same donne.
[48.]  The Bridge  to  bee  built  at  Romney marsh is  to be
donne with all speede, and M^ Cogan hath undertaken to see the
same donne for the Towne of Boston.
There is  likewise  granted  this day to William Hibbins three
hundred acrs of land at  mudy river,  bounded by Cambridge hne
on the one side, ]\P. Wilham Tinge on the other side, and Dedhame
line on the other, with the ordinary allowance for rockes, &c.
Our brother John Biggs hath sould unto him 4 acres of marsh at
Muddy river, for lOs. p. acr, the former graunts being made good.
Our brother AVilliam Talmage being layd out shorte of his former
graunt at muddy river,  hath graunted him to be added thereto 5
acrs, yf it may be layd out adjoyning to his former graunt, and
bounding upon Clambridg Line.
Also he hath graunted him 3 acres of marsh at muddyriver, pay-
ing therefore lOs. per acre, if  it  be there to be had, when former
graunts are performed.
Hee hath alsoe graunted him an acre and a halfe at long Island,
or lesse, if it be there to bee had, after former graunts are served.
Our brother Ed Fletcher hath graunted him a greate Lott at
muddy river,  for  3  heads,  the  which is  supposed was formerly
graunted to him.
EvMU Thomas is  to be taken into Consideration for becoming a
townesman with us.
Leonard Buttall desires leave to make a lime kill of Fox hill,  the
which is to be Considered further of.
 - 80 - 
Boston Town Records, 1640-1.           57
It is ordered at this present meeting tliat there shall be noc more
land graunted at muddy river, nor the mount, untill such lands as
are alredy graunted are layd out,  and the  residue  of the  land
knowne what the acres are.
The last day of the 9th moneth, 1640.
Att a meeting this day of Richard Bellingham, Esquire, Deputy
Governor, John AVinthrop, senior, esquire, M^ Atlierton Howgh,
M''. William Ting, senior, Captaine Edward Gibones, M'. Nuegate,
M^ Coleburne, brother Eliott, and William Hibbins.
There is graunted to our brother Richard Fayrebanck to mowe
the same marsh in the nue feyld that hath bene formerly mowne
by him this yeare following.
[49.]  In the same feild there is graunted to our brother Ed-
mond Jackline to mow the same marsh that hath bene formerly
mowen by our brother Pease for this present year.
M^ William Ting,  his  Alotment formerly  graunted  him  at
muddy river, conteyning 600 acres in all, is thus bounded :     namly,
with lands as 3-et  in Common towards the north east ;     with Rox-
bury land towards the southeast ;      with Dedham land toward the
south west ;    and with land graunted to William Hibbins toward the
north west.
The lands of M^ Rich.  Bellingham's, being  at Winnisimett,
belonging to the towne of Boston, are bounded with the land of
William JSteedsonne,  of Charles towne, and with Charles  towne
lands,  limitted by fences and marsh towards the norcwest, with
a winter fresh water runnell  and pouder home Creeke, parting
betweene the land of M^ Bellinghame and M^ Nicholas Parker, of
Boston, towards the north East, with the salt water on all  other
parts towards the east, and south and west ;   all the lands within the
said Limitts and bounds belong to the said M^ Richard Bellingham.
The 28th of the 10th moneth,  1640.
At a meeting this day of Richard Bellingham, Esquire, Deputy
Governor, John Winthrop, senior, Esquire, M"".  Atherton Hough,
M"". WiUiam Ting, Sen"" M"". Coleburne, M''. Nuegate, brother Jacob
Eliot, and William Hibbins.
John Arnall haveing formerly graunted him one acre and a halfe
at Long Island, and being sicke. Could make use but of an acre
thereof.   Its graunted that he shall have his full proportion, accord-
ing to his former graunt.
Miles Tarne hath graunted him the overplus of that land in that
plott of groundwhere John Arnald's planting groundlieth, yf other
remaine any overplus, to his  acre and halfe, and yf the same be
not la^yd Claime to by any formergraunt
Our brother Da\' desireth at muddy River to have a lott, and the
townesmen have taken it into Consideration.
The townsemen have taken into Consideration likewise the sute
of Miles Tarne for a lott for 5 heads.
There is graunted to Thomas Bell a swamp lieing one the north
side, next to Goodman Jacksonne's, yf it  be not afore graunted,
and yf it amount not to above an acre at Long Hand.
 - 81 - 
58              City Document No. 46.
[50.]  Our brother Alexander Beck is  graunted to mowe this
ensueing somer a pareell of marsh in the nue fe^id neare to the
place where M"". Howghtakes boate, il" it bee not formerly graunted.
The rate made by the townsemen, amounting to £179, the 13th
of the  10th moneth, 1640, for the discharge of the contrey leavy,
was delivered to M^ Henry Webb, Constable of Boston.
At this meeting of the 28th of the 10th moneth, our brother John
Button is chosen by the townsemen Constable in the roome of M^
John Cogan.
The 25th of the 11th moneth, 1640.
Att a meeting this present day ofRichard Bellingham, esquire and
deputie Governor, John Winthrop, esquire, M'. Atherton Howgh,
M"".William Ting, Sen''. Captaine EdwardGibones,M^John Nuegate,
M^ WiUiam Coleburne, brother Jacob Eliott, and William Hibbins.
Our Sister Purton, widdow, is  graunted for this  present yeare
following to mowe the marsh in the nue feild which our sister Mel-
lowes hath bene formerly graunted to mowe.
Our brother Button hath time to Consider untill the nextmeeting
whether or noe he will purchase the overplus of land which ioyneth
to his Lott at the mount, namely upon these termes :    that he shall
sell to our brother Marten Saunders and our brother George Ruggels
so much land of his else where at the same rate hee is  to pay for
it, that is to say 12s. per acr, hee or whoe ever bieth the same is to
pay his portion for fenceing.
Our brother Tho. Savage hath sould unto him at this meeting
one acre of upland at Hogg Island for 8s., formerly graunted to
Abraham Warren, as also hath given unto him halfe an acre of
marsh at the same Island, being at the po^nt of the Island next
to Winnetsimet.
Evan Thomas is accepted for a townseman at this meeting.
Henr}- Dawson is also accepted for a Townsman.
The}' are both to bee t:iken notice of for  land at Deare Island,
if it be disposed of for Tilleg.
Evan Thomas for six heads.
Henry Dawsonne for three.
M^ Winthropp, M"". William Tinge, and Captaine Gibones are
appoynted to vue the land adioyning to M^ Bworne's bowse for
a place  [51] for building the shipp, the which he desires may be
given him for the same use.
Edw. ArnoU is taken into Consideration until the next meeting
to beecom a townsman.
M''. Christopher Stanley hath graunted unto him an acre of land,
be it more or less, upon the little Island at Hogg Island, adioyning
to the  10 acres that seriant Savag hath purchased, yf it  be not
formerly graunted.
Richard Bennett is accepted for a Townsman.
Thomas Stanburie is accepted for a Townsman.
The 22d of the last moneth, 1640.
At a meeting this present day by Richard Bellingham, Esquire,
deputie governor, John Winthrop, Esquire, M^ Atherton Howgh,
 - 82 - 
Boston Town Records, 1641.            59
Captaine Edward Gibones, W. William Ting,  senior, M^ Cole-
burne, J\r. Nuegate, brother Jacob Eliot, and William Hibbins.
Abraham Hagburne is admitted a townseman.
Richard Sandford is  admitted a townsman, who also desireth a
lott when any are to be graunted.
Abraham Ferrie hath acquainted the townsmen with the sale of
his howse, in Boston, and Lott.
Brother AVright, of Bra>aitree, is to pay for the alianation of 60
acres of land, at Is. 2d. an acre, the which amounteth to £3 lO.s.,
and is to pay it in to AP. Bworne, towards the buj^ldingof the shipp.
Brother Steeven Kingsley is  to  have his foure Acres, former!}^
graunted, to bee mad 7 acrs upon a head, allowing for the same as
others have done, and are to doe.
At this meeting our brother Button  hath  accepted of the  re-
maynder of land adioyning to that land of his within the knight's
neck, soe called, at Brayntree, the which amounted unto 25 acrs
and a halfe, for which he is to pay 12s.  per acre, in consideration
whereof he is to allowe to ourbrother Saunders and brother Ruggles
that land which was his, without the fence, amounting to 22 acreb,
be it more or less, at the same rate, namely, for 12s. per acre.
There is  also twoe acres and a half within the same neck, the
which brother Peniman hath, he also is to pay after the rate of 12s.
per acre for the towne stockc of Boston.
Brother Edward Jackson is alowed the same marsh he formerly
mowed in the nue feild for this next Crop.
Brother Sweete is to be Considered for a greate Lott.
Leonard Buttall is to have layd out by Captaine Gibones a place
at Fox hill to burne lime during the towne's pleasure.
Fhillip Rice is accepted for a townseman.
That which Beniamine Alby is to pay to the towne of Boston for
the land he bought of our  brother Button, at  mount willaston,
cometh unto £1 17s. 8d.
[52.']   Brother  Courser, of Boston, hath sould and resigned
up his lott at muddy river, it being 10 Acres, to our Brother Alex-
ander Beck, of the same towne.
The graunt of the towne of Boston, to M". John Winthropp,
Esquire, of the twoe hills,  with  some baii-en  marsh  adioj'uing
there unto, be it more or lesse, liing next to pulling poynt, is thus
bounded :    towards the north with the Land of M^ AVilliara Firce,
and with the salt water on all other partes.
It is ordered. That whatsoever allowance for Rockes or swampes
our brother M^ John Oliver  hath formerly made, or  hereafter
shall make, in the allotments of the inhabitants of this towne, shall
of right belong unto them, unlesse the towne shall  see cause to
alter an}- thing before they be recorded by their bounds and limits
in the town's booke.
The 29th of the 1st moneth, 1641.
At a meeting this  present day of Richard Bellingham, esquire,
deputie  governor,  John  Winthrop,  Esquire,  Captaine  Edward
Gibones, M''. William Ting, senior, M^ Coleburne, brother Jacob
Eliot, and WiUiam Hibbins.
 - 83 - 
60             City Document No. 46.
Our brother John Leveret is grauuted that little  plott of marish
in the nue feikl, it being 3 rodd or there about.
It  is  graunted  that those Lotts formerly graunted to our twoe
Elders, M\ Oliver and M\ Leverett, in the full proportion of land
as it now lieth, shall, b}' this order, be confirmed unto them, although
their Lotts doe amount to  a  greater quantitj^ of land than was
intended at the grauuting thereof.
Our brother M"".  Richard Parker and our brother  Everall are
appoynted survaiors for the new feild b}- sentry hill for this present
yeare ;    And the streete to goe up to the same is to bee reserved for
the towne's use.
William Courser, our brother, hath leave to sell  his howse to
Gawen Andersonne, of Eocksburie.
That parcell of ground at Long island, formerly graunted to our
brother Talmage, be it more or lesse, according to his graunt is now
Consented unto that our brother William Wilsonne shall  have it,
paing to Goodman Tarne for the labor he hath bene at upon the
same.
It is ordered that if any hogges be found not sufficiently yocked
by the 7th day of the 2d mo., 1641, that the owner of such hogges
or swine shall pay for every hogg or swine soe taken up, or found,
halfe a bushel of Corne.  And that the same hogg or swine is  to
bee kcept in the pound 24 howres, and if it  be not owned by that
time then they are to be sent to Deare Island, and not to be fetched
thence untill full satisfaction be made, viz. :    od. for pounding and
for carege, and for wrong done, if any bee.
[53.J  It  is  also ordered that  if  any goates  shall  be found
without a keep after the 14th day of the next moneth, being the 2d
moneth, that  the owners of them shall forfett for every goate soe
found halfe  a bushell of Corne, and 3d. for pounding, where they
are to remaine 24 howres, namely, in the pound, and if not owned
by that time, then to be sent to deare Island, where they are to
remayne untill they haA'e given full satisfaction.
Noe man is to suffer any wood or other timber to lie in the streetes
above 4 dayes, but upon there owne ground, upon the forfeture of
4d. per day for every load of wood or timber found soe lieing.
The 26th of the 2d moneth, 1641.
Att a meeting this present day by Richard Bellingham, Esquu'e,
deputie  Goveinor,  John  Winthrop,  Esquire,  Captaine  Edward
Gibones, M"'.  William Ting, senior, ^r. Nuegate, M'. Coleburne,
brother Ehot, and Wilham Hibbens.
Our brother M^ Wentworth Day hath graunted unto him 100
acres of land for his greate Lott at Muddy River out of a parte of
that land which was appoynted for the Comune.
It  is  also graunted to our brother James Jonson, our brother
Button, and Goodman Tarne, to make use of a rodd a peece of
land, namely :    three rodd in the whole, adioyning unto Wm. Hib-
bins, his garden pale on the one side, and soe over towards our
Elder Oliver's little howse, and downe to the Creeke eastward, and
up to  the high way westward  to make use of for  dressing  his
leather, not (misuseing?) the same, soe be it bee notnoysome to any
 - 84 - 
Boston Town Records, 1641.             61
of the neighbowrehood, and to hoiild it untill the townedoerequire
them to yeild up the same.
There is  graunted to  our elder Leverett twoe acres, or there
about, of marsh or meadow, lieing upon Charles river,  abutting
on the Creek that partes Cambridge and Boston.
There is  graunted to our brother Henry Webb to purchase 3
acres of marsh at muddy river, yf it be there to be had.
William  Ilibbins  hath  Confirmed  unto him that fresh marsh
which was formerly graunted him at muddy river,  valued at 10
acrs formerly, but proveth to bee about 18 acres,  bounded with a
rocke on the one side, and a great swampe on the other.
This 27th of the 3d moneth, 1641.
Att a generall Towne meeting, upon publique notice,  M'. Wil-
liam  Tynge,  Treasurer, and M". William  Hibbens  are Chosen
Deputyes for the service of the next generall Court.
Also at the same meeting, M^ Bellingham, Deputy Governor,
M'. Winthrop, esqre, M^ Tynge, Treasurer, Capt. Gibones, M^
William Hibbens, William Coleborne, Jacob Eliott,  James Penne,
and John Oliver, are chosen  to  order  the Town's occasions  for
these six months next ensueing.
The 31st of the 3d moneth, 1641.
Att a meeting this present day, by Richard Bellingham, Esq're,
Governor, John Winthrop, sen'r, Esq're, M'. William Ting, sen'r,
Captaine Edward Gibones, M^ Coleburne, brother Jacob Eliott,
brother James Penn, brother John Oliver and William Hibhins,
John Serch is  admitted  a  townsman,  he  behaveing  himselfe
inoffensively.
[54.]  Upon the heareing of the Cause in difference betweene
our brother,  M^ Atherton  Howgh, one  the  one side,  and our
brother AVilliam Cheseborowe, brother Write, with others of our
breethren and freinds at the mount on the other side, Its consented
and agreed unto byour brother M"". Howgh, to and with our breeth-
ren  and  friends  at  the  mount aforesaid,  that our brother M"".
Howgh, for his parte, doth yield up all Claime in that marsh which
in his neck of land at the mount, contayning about 60
acres,  unto  the  sayd Claimers thereof.   And our brethren and
freinds there aforesayd doe consent and agree that our brother M^
Howgh shall enioy peaceably to himselfe and to his assignes forever
all that necke of land adioyning to the sayd marsh aforesaid,  ac-
cording to a former order entered in this booke to the same purpose.
Its ordered by us, who for the time present are appoynted for
the ordering of the affaires of the towne, that all  those who have
land in sentry hill  feyld,  either upland or marsh, shall pay for
every acre they there hould, after the rate of Is. an acre,  towards
the mayntaining of the fence thereof.
Its ordered that all dry cattle shall be driven of the necke, and
not be suffered to abide there, except Riding horses anddraught b}*
the 5th of the 4th mo., 1041.
Our brother John Davies and our brother Tho. Buttolph shall
agTee with a Cowe keep for the towne for the present summer.
 - 85 - 
62              City DocmiEXT No. 46.
Our brother Samuell Sherman hath graunted him to mow that
parte of marsh in the neck this  present summer that  hee mowed
the last.
Our brother Robert Turner is  graunted that land which lieth
betweene his lott and Cambridge nue line, soe fare  as the  lem^ts
of his lott retcheth it  lieing  along by the  side  thereof,  and noe
further.
The 28th of the 4th moneth, 1641.
Att a meeting this present day of Richard Bellingham Esq're,
Governor, John Winthrop, Esquire, Capt Edwaid Gibones, Wil-
liam Tynge, Treasurer, William Ilibbens, William Colbron, Jacob
Eliott, James Penne, John Oliver.
It is ordered that our brother Henry Webbe, bro. James Penne,
and Bro. Stodder shall take up the accounts of M^ John Coggan.
It is ordered that our bro.  Everill and our bro.  Burden shall
have leave to sinke a pitt att the upper end of the wharfe, before
our bro. Burden's house,  and to Putt a vessell  therein  (so that
they cover the same) to water their leather in ;   and if it  be found
an annoyance to the Towne, then they are to fill it up againe.
To our bro.  Tho. Seottua is  granted a small quantity of salt
marish lying betweene his great lott and Charles River.
[55.]  The 26th of the 5th moneth, 1641.
At a meeting this present day of Richard Bellingham, Esquire,
Governor,  John Winthrop, Esquire, W^illiam Tynge, Treasurer,
William Hibbens, William Colbron, Jacob Eliott, John Oliver.
Robert Wing hath graunted to him 20 bushels of Indian Corne,
for looking to the lowe water marke in Centry feild this jeare, to
be paid him by the acre.
It  is  Ordereil  that  the  Constables of Boston shall pa}'  those
workemen that were employed about the way at Rumney marsh,
betweene Winnesemett and Lynne, at Is. Gd. a day ;    if it be payd
in Indian Corne, they are to have it at 3s. a bushel.
Anthony Stanyarne is graunted to be a Townsman.
Our brother John Oliver is chosen Treasurer for the Towne, and
to keep the Towne's booke.
It's agreed that our bro. Beamsly is to be payed for  10 rods of
Causway done by him on the further side of the bridge at Rumney
marsh, at 6s. per rodde, together with a small parcell of worke on
the hither side of the said Bridge, which cometh to Is. 6d. ;    in all,
£3 Is. 6d.
Henry Stevens is graunted to have a gi*eat lott at mount WoUas-
ton, alias Brayntry, for five  heads.
The 27th of the 7th moneth, 1641.
At a meeting this dayof Richard Bellingham, Esquire, Governor,
John Winthrop,  Esquire,  William  Tynge,  Treasurer,  Captaine
Gibones,  William  Colbron,  Jacob  idiott,  James Penne,  John
Oliver.
It's agreed that for the maintenance of the high wayes, the Richer
sort  of Inhabitants shall  afford three  daj'es'  worke of one man
 - 86 - 
Boston Town Records, 1641.            63
(except such as have Teames) ;    the men of middle  estate,  two
dayes worke ;   and the poorer sort one day, to be Ordered according
to the Discretion of  the surveighonrs  for the  higli  wayes ;      and
every Teame in the Towne is to afford one daye's worke, under the
Penalty of 2s.  a day for each man that is  defective in  Affording
his heipe according to Appointment, and 8s.  per day if carts be
defective ;    to be Levyed by Distresse by the Survej'ghours of the
High-Waves.
It's  Agreed that AVilliam T^-nge, Treasurer, and James Penne
sliall RectiA' the Accounts Concerning Charge of Fencing in the
mill feild. and allow to Each man an equall Proportion, according
to their Charges expended.
David Phippen is  admitted to be a Townsman, and to have a
howse lott, if it can be found.
There is an house-lott graunted to John Search neare unto the
house lott of Robert Walker.
There is  granted unto Job Judkin to have a great lott for five
heads at Mount Wollaston alias Braintry.
There is  granted and sold unto John Bigs  (for forty shillings,
already- payd by Worke about the magistrate's seat)  a parcell of
marish ground l3'ing in the Sentinell-hill-feild, conteyning one acre
and halfe, be it  more or lesse, bounded with the salt water shore
toward the North W. ;   with a salt Creeke towards the North ;   with
Land belonging to John Leverit, parted by a Ditch, towards the
East ;     with the upland  adjoyning  toward the  AVest  and  South
West ;    to belong unto him, and his heyres for ever.
This 29th of the 9th moneth, 1641.
At a meetingthis dayof Richard Bellingham, Esquire, Governor,
John Winthrop, Esquire, William Tynge, Treasurer, William Col-
bron, Jacob Eliott, James Penne, John Oliver.
Samson Shore is Admitted to be a Townsman.
It's Ordered that the Constables shall Pay unto Robert Turner
for diet for the Townsmen £2 IS.f.
[56.]  There is  Granted unto John Palmer, Sen., an Allot-
ment at Mount Wollaston. alias Braintry, for two heads.
Edward Arnold is Admitted to be a Townesman.
Its  Ordered that the Constables shall Pay unto John Bigs six
pounds, six shillings, ten pence, for worke about the Magistrate's
seat.
There is  granted to Valentine Hill,  of Boston, Merchant, and
to his Associates, their  executors, administratours and assignes,
all  the wast ground (common highwaj- and proprieties reserved)
from the  Point  of the  Marish  betweene  M'.  William  Tynge's
Palle and John Lowe's howse there, as it  is  now staked out,  to
the uppermost Corner of M''.  Edward Tinge's  Proprietie  neare
the  key,  already- staked  out,  and  so  round  by Edward Bend-
alle's to the Point fore mentioned, for so many yeares as I he Charge
they  shall  bestowe  in  Purchase  of their  neighbours  their  late
wharfinge, and in  Building, making and repairing such wharfes,
creekes or coves within this five yeares now next Comming shall
amount unto, accounting after nine yeares' time to be allowed for,
 - 87 - 
64              City Document No. 46.
one hundred pounds, and rateabi}' for all  the charge so to be be-
stowed, as aforcsayd, this  terme to begin at the expiration of the
sayd five ^"eares.   And the said Valentine Hill and his Associates,
their executours, adniinistratours, and assignes, are allowed to take
Tunnage of all such vessels and wharfage of all such goods as shall
there arrive, or make use thereof during the sa^d termes Provided
that all  such whose grounds doe butt on the wast ground above
granted, or high wavesthere, shall be free to import, land andexport
within this jurisdiction (except b}'  wa}' of merchandize) ,   all  their
owne goods, wood, timber and other things being originally of this
jurisdiction, without any charge, during the terme before granted,
so that the vessells stay not in the coves nor creekes delivering,
nor the goods remain upon the wharfe, above forty-eight houres.
And it  is  also agreed that such warehouses or other houses as
they shall  erect  during  their  terme  they  shall  be  allowed  for
b}'  the  Towne,  after  such  Rate  as  the}'  shall  be  vallued  to
be then worth without Respect of the Place.   And it is also agreed
that such wharves as they shall make there, they shall leave in good
Repaire, and so as they may be of use to the Towne at the end of
the time.   Provided that if the}' or their excequators or Assignes
shall Resigne and give up the same to the Towne three yeares be-
fore the end of their terme, then they shall not be charged with
Reparation —Provided the}- shall not hereby have liberty to Pull
downe or demolish the same or any part thereof.   And it  is  also
agreed that the said Grantees shall within the space of two yeares
next ensueing sufHciently wharfe, and from time to time keepe in
repaire the creeke next unto George Burden's house, fitting  for
the lading and unlading of a lighter of twenty tunne in ordinary
Tydes on either side thereat. —And it is also agreed that they shall
not take tunnage or wharfage of any boates or goods but at such
times as the wharfes and coves shall be usefull for such vessells as
shall then arrive, nor shall hinder the ladeing of any goods upon
any such part of the cove where they shall not bestowe any an-
swerable cost of wharfing.   And it is further agreed that it shall be
lawfuU for any of this Towne to passe to and fro in their ships or
small boates without paying any thing, so as they doe not lay or
leave the sayd boats to prejudice the sayd Grantees for the passage
of any other gi*eater vessel, or the ladeing or unladeing of [57.]
any merchandize, or  other goods  by which they are to Receive
benefitt.   Provided allso, that if M'. Edward Tynge shall within five
yeares now next coming, wharfe in that part of the waste betweene
the inside of the crosse wall and M*. Hill's wharfe end, being in
length seventy-four  foote,  or  thereabout, being  allready marked
out.  He shall  then  enjoye  to him, and  his Assignes, the sole
libertye of tunnage, and wharfage, by and upon the same without
contributing to any other charge, and in Consideration thereof the
sayd Grantees are to have their nine yeares made up tenne  for
every one hundred pounds bestowed as aforesayde, and if  he shall
not wharfe the same within the sayd five  yeares,  then the sayd
Grantees may doe it as the rest.
This 6th of the 10th moneth, 1G41.
At a generall Towns meeting upon Publique Warning.
 - 88 - 
Boston Town Records, 1641-2.           65
There are Chosen for the Affayres of the Towne for these six
months next ensueing :    Richard Bellingham, esqre, Governor, John
Winthrop,  esqre,  William T>-nge, Treasurer, Captaine Gibones,
Williame Colbron,  Jacob Eliott,  Valentine Hill,  James Penne,
John Olivr.
This 10th of the 11th moneth, 1641.
At a  generall  Townsmeeting,  upon warning from  house  to
house.
It's  agreed that for the making of the high wayes at Romny
Marish now ordered by the Court, each man in particular through-
out the Towne shall alford their helpe, in six severall Companycs,
at the appointment of William Tynge, Treasurer, Captaine Gib-
ones,  Captaine  Keayne, John Newgate, Samuell Cole and Joh.
Oliver.
It's Ordered that Deai-e-Island shall be Improoved for the main-
tenance of a free schoole for the Towne, and such other Occasions
as the Townsmen For the  time being shall thinke meet, the sayd
schoole being sufficiently Provided for.
It's Ordered that notwithstanding the order made (concerning
the  disposing  of  Lands in  this   necke)  in  the  4th  of 10th,
1635,  yet  for  peace  sake,  and  for  avoyding of confusion  in
the Towne, many Lauds having bene bought and sould at cleare
rates, the Rights of all Lands disposed of shall belong to the ppr.
owners of them, as the}'  should have done if  the  afore former
order  had never  bene ;       and the  sayd former  order  is  hereby
repealed. Provided that this Order shall not concerne such marish
ground as hath bene let from yeare to yeare.
It's ordered that there shall be noe more Lands granted unto any
Inhabitants that shall hereafter be admitted into the Towne, unlesse
it be at a generall Townsmeeting.
It's ordered that the 9 men shall, according to the present need
of the Towne, appoint the summe and the particular Assessments
of a Towne Rate.
Captaine Gibones, Valentine Hill, Hemy Webbe, and Anthonj'
Stodder are chosen to Trade with the Indians, according to the
Order of the generall Court.
This 31st of the 11th moneth, 1641.
At a meeting this  day of Richard Bellingham, esqre.  Gover-
nor,  John Winthrop, esqre,  William  T3-nge,  Treasurer,  Capt.
Gibones,  William  Colbron, Jacob Eliot,  Valentine Hill,  James
Penn, John Oliver.
There is  granted to William Briskoe to  have an Addition for
one head to his Lot formerly granted at Mount Wollaston alias
Braintree.
It's  Agreed for the satisfaction of John Ruggle, senior, [58.]
concerning  71.   15s.  5d.  charges in  building expended at  Deare
Island, That Capt. Gibones (vvlio hath undertaken it)  shall pay the
sayd sume to our Bro. Ruggle, and in liew thereof shall  have the
present use of the sayd Hand untill the Towne doe let the same,
 - 89 - 
66               City Document No. 46.
and then the said sume of 71.  15s. od. is againe to be repayd unto
him by the Towne.
John Gutteridge is admitted to be a Townsman.
Richard Tajlour is admitted to be a Townsman.
Edward Weeden is admitted to be a Townsman.
Tlie I^and of Henrj' Webbe formerly' granted, conteyning two
hundreth acres, belongeth unto him, as  it is now la3-d out at Brain-
try, be it more or lesse, being bounded with Lands as yet in Com-
mon toward the North and East ;     witli the Land of Robt. 8kot
toward the South ;      with Monotocot river toward the west.
The Land of Robt. Skot formerly granted, conteyning in  quan-
tity two hundreth acres, belonging to  him as it is now layd out at
Braintry, alias Mount WoUaston, being bounded with the Lands
of Henry Webbe toward the North ;    with Lands as j-et in common
tOAvards the East and South ;    with  Monotocott river toward the
west.
Richard Knight is admitted to be a Townsman.
William Tynge, Treasurer, and Valentine Hill are appointed to
Take order concerning the Payment of Robt. Wing for attendance
the last summer upon the New feild, and of Richard Parker, and
James Browne for their charges about the lowe water mark in the
new feild, and to returne  what they have done in it at the next
Towns-meeting.
James Hudson is admitted to be a Townsman.
John Leveritt, in Consideration of garden Lot granted to him in
the new feild, doth grant unto John Hurd and howse plat betweene
the howse plats of Robt. Hull and WiUiam Plantayne.
This 7th of 12th moneth, 1G41.
At a meeting this  day of John Winthrop, Esqre, Governor,*
William Tynge, Treasurer, Capt. Gibones, WiUiam Colbron, Jacob
Eliot, Valentine Hill, James Penne, John Oliver.
There is granted unto Robt.  Reynolds three acres of marish at
muddy river, for which he is to pay six shillings eight pence unto
the Towne, according to what he should have paj'd for that parcell
of marish which was to be purchased by him at  hog Hand, but
is now sold unto Thomas Marshall.
There is libert}' granted unto Leonard Buttle to sett up another
lime kilne (by that which he hath allready sett up neare fox-hill)
at  the  direction of Capt.  Gibones, provided he  shall  have  no
propriet}^ of Land there by vertue hereof.
This 17th of 12th moneth, 1G41.
At a meeting this day of Richard Bellingham, esqre. Governor,
John AVinthrop, esqre, William Tynge, Treasurer, Capt. Gibones,
William Colbron, Valentine Hill, John Oliver.
It's ordered that the high waj- from John Lowes howse, by the
cove side, unto George Burden's Howse shall continue as it is  layd
out this da}', vizt. :    from a pile, marked this day, at the north end of
the crosse wall, in a strait line to a place marked with an axe on
the Timber of the creeke sett up by [59]  John Button ;     from
*Thus in the original.
 - 90 - 
Boston Town Records, 1642.             67
thence in a strait line  to a stone by tiie  creeke side two rods in
breadtli from William Hudson, Junr., his gate post ;   and from thence
unto a place marked with an axe on the Timber at the head of the
creeke nigh George Burden's howse.
This 28th of 12th moneth, 1G41.
At a meeting this  da}' of Richard Bellingnam, esqre, Governor,
John Winthrop, esqre, William Tynge, Treasurer, Capt. Gibones,
Valentine Hill, Jacob Eliot, James Penn, John Oliver.
It's  ordered that Hugh Gunnyson shall be propounded to  the
Court, to have liberty to keepe an ordinary with a Cooke's Shop.
James Penn and John Oliver are appointed to view the marish
which James Johnson desireth to buy of the Towne, and to report
unto  the  next meeting the  quantity  and manner of the  lying
thereof.
John Peirce is admitted to be a Townsman.
It's Ordered that the Constables shall pay unto Arthur Perry 41.
10s. for his service in drumming the last 3'eare, ending this present
day.
it's  ordered that the Towne shall pa^^ the Towne's Rate, now
last Assessed, in  Indian Corne, at  3s.  per bushel,  and Rye at
3s. 4d., and wheat at 4.s.  per bushell.
It's  ordered that WilUam Tynge, Treasurer, and John Oliver
sliall  forewarne Dorchester men from making use of any of the
hills  of upland in  the marish beyond Naponset River by felling
Timber upon them, or otherwise, and to demand satisfaction of
them for wliat Timber they have already felled on theui.
The Towne having considered the great Damages done by goates
unto gardens, orchards, and cornelields ;    the great grievance that
often ariseth among the Inhabitants by reason of them, the many
orders made about them, and yet altogether ineffectual. Doe there-
fore ad[v]ise that whosoever now keepe any of them shall take
course to put them off, seeing that the Towne is  resolved to make
an order for the remoovingthem altogether from this necke at theire
next meeting.
Richard Dexter is admitted to be a Townsman.
It's Ordered that noe man shall dig any more clay in the high way
toward  Rocksbury by Jacob Kliot's  Orchard  Palles, under the
penalty of 10s per load, and so rateably for all clay which men dig
there.   And it is also ordered, for the preserving of all high wa^es
in this Towne, that none shall dig any sand or clay in any of them,
under the penalty of 5s. per load.
This 4th of 1st moneth, 1642.
At a Generall Towns meeting upon lawfull warnmg.
It's ordered that the residue of the Townes Lands not yet dis-
posed of (excepting those that are layd out for commons at Boston,
Braintry and Muddy River) shall be devided amongst the present
Inhabitants (together with such as shall be admitted  within two
months now next [60] following) ,   and that in this manner, vizt. :
a greater Proportion to them that have had lesse  tlian  their due,
and the lesse to them that have  had more, and proportionable
 - 91 - 
6S               City Document No. 46.
to them that have had none ;    and this is  to be done by the select
men, chosen for the Towne's businesse.
This 28th of 1st moneth, 1G42.
At a meeting of Richard Beliingham, Esqre, Governor, John
"Wiuthrop, Esqr,  William Tynge,  Treasurer,  William  Colbron,
Jacob Eliot, Valentine Hill, John Oliver.
It's Ordered upon the Considerations lajd downe in  an Order
made about goates the last meeting of the select men, that all  In-
habitants of this Towne shall remoove all  their goates from this
necke by or before the next second day of the weeke, and never
more to keepe any of them upon this necke, under the poenalty of
3s. 4cZ. a goat for every goat seene abroad from this clay forward.
And whereas divers brethren plead necessit}^ of milke, the}'  may
repayre unto Richard Fayrebankes, who hath promised to give his
endeavor in dealing with such as have milke to sell, and to direct
them where they ma}^ he provided for.
It's Ordered that the Constables shall suppl}- the present necessity
of Robt. Wing with o bushells of Indian Corne, in  Consideration
of his service in keeping the new foild the last yeare, which corne
is to be repayd unto the Towne b}' the owners of Land in the sayd
feild.
John Bigs and William Briskoe are appointed overseers of the
common fence at muddy river, according to the order made on the
26th of 8tli mo., 1G40.
It's Ordered that the constable shall pay unto Robt. Turner for
Dyet, beere, and fire for the select men, 18s.
Ralph Gulthrop, Jacob Chapman, William To}', and Benjamin
Thwing are admitted to be Townsmen, together with John Baker,
William Burnell, James Hudson, Robt. Williams, William Frank-
ling, Jun., Daniel Briskoe, Tho. Blott.
It's Ordered that Richard Parker and James Everill shall have
power to demand Is. per acre of every one that hath corne ground
in the new field, for fencing, set up at low water marke by James
Browne and others the last yeare ;   and in case of refusall of pay-
ment, to require the helpe of the constables to Levy the same.
It's Ordered thatJames Everill shall set downe the street fence of
his garden according to Direction of William Tynge, Treasurer,
and John Oliver.
It's appointed that the order made concerning Hogs on the 29th
of 1st rao.,  1641, shall  stand  in  force,  onely that  which con-
cerneth carrying them to Deare Hand is  hereby repealed.
This 25th of 2d moneth, 1642.
At a meeting of  Richard  Beliingham, esqre.  Governor, John
Winthrop, esqre, William Tynge, Treasurer, Capt. Gibones, Wil-
liam Colbron, Valentine Hill, John Ohver.
William Philpott and Robt. Turner, Shoemaker, are [61.] Ad-
mitted to be Townsmen.
Widdow Purton  hath  liberty  granted  to  mowe  the  marish
Bordei'ing upon M". Mellowe's planting ground in the new field for
this present yeare.
 - 92 - 
Boston Town Records,  1642.            69
John Ruggle is chosen to kecpe the cattell in this  necke all  this
next sumer ;     and it is ordered that he  shall goe forth with them at
sunne an hower high, and l>ring them home at six of the clocke ;
and for his service herein he is  to have a bushell of Indian corne
for each cowe.  He is also chosen to see the order executed con-
cerning swine, for which he is to have halfe the forfeiture, the rest
is to be taken up by him and Improoved to the Towne's use.
There is liberty granted unto all those that mowed the marish in
the new field the last yeare to mowe it  this yeare also, save that
Edmund Jackling is to mowe that which widdowe Purton leaveth,
she being otherwise provided for  as by a former order made this
present day.
This 2d of 3d moneth, 1642.
At a generall Townsmeeting, upon warning from howse to howse,
William Tynge, Treasurer, and Capt.  Gibones are chosen Depu-
tyes for the next generall Court.
Edward Tj-nge is chosen Constable for this  jeare next ensueing,
and untill  a new be chosen.
The 2oth of 5th moneth, 1642.
At a  meeting of  John Winthrop, esqre,  Governor, William
Tynge, Treasurer,  William Colbron, Jacob Eliot,  James  Penn,
John Oliver.
Simon Rogers is admitted to be a Townsman.
It's granted to Capt. Gibones, John Davis, and John Smith to
have the marish on their backsides to the water side,  paying unto
the Towne for it after the rate of 40.s'.  per acre.
W^illiam Tynge Treasurer, James Penu,  and John Oliver are
appointed to order the digging of the creeke neare John Davis, his
howse, and the high way to Charletowne by Tho :  Marshal's land.
Edmund Jackling and Edward Dennis are appointed in stead of
John Ruggle, Joyntly and Severally, to execute the former order
concerning swine ;    and if  they find any unyoked, they are to yoke
them, and the owners of the swine are  to  pay them six  ])ence for
each swine so yoked, over and above the forfeiture set down in the
former order ;    and in case of defect of any of these payments, the
said  Edm. Jackling and Edward Dennis  shall  have hberty to
Levye the same by distresse, upon warrant granted them by the
Towne.
William Salter hath liberty granted him to mowe sufficient for
one cowe, neere Rocksbury, where he can find it, except that which
is  hei'cby granted to Sam. Sherman, who hath liberty to  mowe
where he mowed last yeare.   Also if any marish remaine being not
formerly granted, John Ruggle and Robt. Howin have liberty to
mowe for their  cattell this  present year in the said marish neere
Rocksbury.
[64.] William Tynge, Treasurer, William Colbron, and John
Oliver,  are  appointed  to Joyne  with  Dedham, Cambridge and
Watertowne to Lay out the  high  wayes from Towne to Towne,
through Boston Lands at  muddy river,  as  also  to  lay out more
private wayes there unto landing places or otherwise.
 - 93 - 
70              City Document No. 46.
The Towne hath received the sum of il. of Ensigne Savage for
the 10 acres, be it more or lesse, formerly granted and hiyd out to
him at Hog Hand.
This 29th of 6th moneth, 1642.
At a meeting of John Wluthrop,  esqre.  Governor. William
Tynge, Treasurer, Capt. Glbones, William Colbron, Valentine Hill,
John Oliver.   It's Ordered that such at Rumney marish as have
bene defective in  their hands and Teames for mending the high
wayes heere in  the Towne, according to order,  shall  yeild their
helpe in mending their high wayes in Rumney marish, and others
that are bound b^- order to worke at the highwayes in  Rumne}'
marish, shall worke at the high wayes about the Towne in their
stead.
The Constables are appointed (according to Order of the gen-
erall court) to take care for the building a  salt peter howse in  the
prison yarde 30 foot in  length,  and 14  foot in breadth, set upon
posts 7 foot high above ground, with a covering of thatch, and the
walls claboarded tight from the injury of rayne and Snow.
It's Ordered that the constables shall give speedy warning unto
Walter Merr}- to leave open the high way upon the sea bancke over
which he hath built a roofe, with promise at first  to mainteyne an
high w^av under it, but since hath unto great inconvenience diverted
it,  contrary to the order of the Towne, and without licence from the
Towne.
It's Ordered that the Constables shall, with all convenient speed,
take care for fencing in the burning place.
This 2d of 7th moneth, 1642.
At a generall Towne-meeting upon lawfiill warning.
John Winthrop, Esqre, Governor, Richard Bellingham, Esqre,
William Tynge, Treasurer, Capt. Gibones, William Colbron, Jacob
Eliot,  Valentine  Hill,  James Penn, John Oliver,  are  chosen as
before for the Townes affa^Tcs these 6 months next ensueing.
This 31st of 8th moneth, 1642.
At a  meeting of John Winthrop, Esqre, Governor, William
Tj^nge, Treasurer, Capt. Gibones. William Colbron, Jacob Eliot,
Valentine Hill, James Penn, John Oliver.
Edw. Fletcher hath  libert}'  granted  him to  finish  the  Porch
which he hath begun to set up, 3 foot into the street, which is  to
remayne for his use, unlesse the Towne shall hereafter find it to be
inconvenient to the street, which if it  be found, he shall remoove
it out of the street.
There is  liberty granted unto Widdow Tuthill to remoove her
windmill into the fort,  there to place it  at  the  appointment of
Capt. Gibones.
[63.] It's Ordered that the Constable shall give speedy notice
to Robt. Nash, Butcher, that with all speed he remoove the Stinking
garbage out of his yard, nere the street, and provide some other
remote place for slaughter of Beasts, that such loathsome smells
might be avoyded, which are of great annoyance r,nto  the neigh-
bours, and to strangers.
 - 94 - 
Boston Town Records, 1642.            71
28th of 9th mo., 1G42.
At a meeting of John AVinthrop, Esq™. Governor, William lynge,
Capt. Gibones, Valentine Hill, John Oliver.
There  is  liberty  granted  to  Goodman Basse  and  Goodman
Baekster, both of Braiutry, to buy the overplus that remayneth in
the three hill marish at Bi-aintr}' above their 40 acres.
This 26th of 10th mo., 1C42.
At a meetingofJohn Winthrop, esq™, Governor, Richard Belhng-
ham Esq™, W". Tynge, Treasurer, WiUiam Colbron, Jacob Eliot,
Valentine Hill, James Peun, John Oliver.   There is liberty granted
unto Thomas J03', Carpenter, to set up an howse over his sellar by
the water side,  in the common v>-ay  by his dwelling howse in the
milfield, leaving, and from time to time keeping open, a passage of
6 foot in breadth between howse and howse.
WiUiam Briskoe and Peter Oliver are appointed to oversee the
comon fence at muddy river this  next suiuer,  according  to the
Tenour of the order, made concerning it on the 2Gth of 8th mo.,
1640.
There is  granted unto M^ Richard Parker liberty to Purchase
the marish adjoyning to his  upland  in  the  new lield,  reserving
liberty,  if  need be, to make use  of  it  for the  mill  thereabout
intended.
It's  Ordered that  the  highway allready  begun  from widdow
Tuthill's windmill to the fort 20 foot in  breadth, shall be laj-d out
by William Colbron and Jacob Eliot.
It's Ordered that Parents shall give in a note of the names of their
children, and the time of their birth, unto the Chirke of the writs
(both of  such as have bene borne in  this  towne. and shall  be
borne), within one weeke after their birth, under the poenalty of
6 pence for every defect, and he that hath the care of the burying
place, shall give notice unto the sayd Clarke, of the names of such
as are buryed, and that the Constable shall signifye this order unto
every family in the Towne.
It's Ordered that the Towne Treasurer shall demand the money
due from Martin Sanders and George Ruggle, of Braintr}-, for Land
sold unto them there, and in  case of defect of payment, to Sue
for it.
Harman Atwood is admitted to bfe a Townsman.
This 30th of 11th mo., 1612.
At a meeting of John Winthrop, esq™, Governor, Richard Bell-
ingham, esq™, Capt Gibones, William Colbron, Jacob Eliot,  Val-
entine Hill, John Oliver.
John Stevens is admitted to be a Townesman.
[64.]  Henry Simons is admitted to be a Townsman.
Christopher Stanley hath libert}'  to purchase the marish in the
millfield, on the east side of the Cause}-, toward Charlctowne, pay-
ing for it after the rate of 40' per acre, the said marish to be set
out by William Tynge, Treasurer, Capt. Gibones, and John Oliver.
John Smith, Gent., his assessment of                ,   unto the
last country rate, is remitted unto him, upon consideration of the
great losses that of late have befallen him in Ireland.
 - 95 - 
72              City Document No. 46.
This 20th of 12th mo., 1642.
At a general Townsraceting upon lawful warning
John Whithrop,  esq'''',   Governor,  Richard  Bellingham,  esq",
W°\ Tynge, Treasurer, Captain Gibones, W™. Hibbens, gent., W".
Colbron, Jacob Eliot, Valentine Hill, John Oliver, are chosen for
the affaj'res of the Towne these six months next ensuing.
This 27th of 12th mo., 1642.
At a meeting of John Winthrop, esq™. Governor, W™. Tynge,
Treasurer, W". Hibbens,  gent., William Colbron,  Jucob Eliot,
Valentine Hill, John Oliver.
There is granted unto Tho. Grubbe, James Everill, James John-
son, Myles Tarne, Tho. Buttalph, leather dressers, a place for the
watering of their leather,  neare James Davis, his  house, wliich
they shall have liberty to fence in for the securing of their leather,
to be la^'d out mito them bj- WiUiam Hibbins. Gent. Afforesaid,
with some one of the selectmen, Alwa^'s provided that it is in the
Townes power (if  they shall see cause) ,   to resume this  land and
liberty now granted, into their Hands againe for any more publicke
or coiiion use.
William T3'nge, Treasurer, Capt. Gibones, and John Oliver, or
any two of them, are appointed to view the swamp in the mill feild
which Cliristopher Stanly desireth to buy of the Towne, and to make
returne to the next meeting, whether or no it  may be conveniently
sold unto him, and to lay out a convenient way through the mil-
feild, to the windmill and Charleton ferry.
William Colbron and Jacob Eliot are appointed to view a parcell
of Land toward M^ Blackston's  Beach, which  Richard  Peapes
desires to Purchase of the Towne, whither it  may be conveniently
sold unto him.
The}- are also appointed to marke out  the  footway from the
Towne to the gardens neare widdow Tuthill's wind-mill, as also
the cartwa}' out of the milne lane to the sayd Gardens.
This 27th of 1st mo., 1643.
At a meeting this day of John Winthrop, esq'"% Governor, Rich-
ard Bellingham, esq''% W"\ Hibbins, gent., W'". Tynge, Treasurer,
Capt. Gibones, Jacob Eliot, Valentine Hill, John Oliver.
It's Ordered that M^ Payne, of Braintr}', his assessment unto the
Towne rate of Boston, shall be respited unlill farther considera-
tion may be had about it.
Sergeant Johnson and AValter Merry are requested to take the
oversight of the boyes in the galleryes,  and in  [65.] Case of
unruly disorders, to acquaint the Magistrates therewith.
John Rugle, is appointed to keepe the milch cattell for this next
sumer ensueing, and to agree with the owners for his wages.
Tho. Ohver is Joyned with William Hibbens, Gent., to set out
the place for watering of Leather, granted to several bretheren the
last meeting.
William  Tynge, Treasurer, and John Oliver, being thereunto
appointed the last meeting, have agreed, that Christopher Stanly
shall have all  the  marish  on the  east  side  of the waj- toward
 - 96 - 
Boston Town Records, 1643.            73
Charleton ferry for  1/.  10s.  to be pa,3d by him for it,  reserving 8
foot iu breadth all along the side of the ditch by the sayd highway-,
and the swamps being compassed with his npland for G.n.  8d., being
about I an acre.   As also that there shall be an highwa}' reserved
through the milfeild, two rods in breadth from the west corner of
Mathew Chafeth's  garden,  unto the  little  howse by the  sa3-d
swamps, and from thence to the wind-mill as directly as the land
will beare.
This 1st of 2d mo., 1643.
At a generall Townmeeting upon lawfull warning.
William Hibbens, Gent., and Capt. Gibones are Chosen Deputyes
for the next generall Court.
Richard Parker is chosen Constable for this next yeare and till
another be chosen in his stead.
It's Ordered that all swine whatsoeverthat remaine in this necke
of Boston, shall be kept up in yeards or bowses so as that thej-
may not goe abroade to trespasse on mens corne or gardens.
This 24th of 2d mo., 1643.
At a meeting of John Winthrop, Esq'"% Governor, Richard Bell-
ingham, Esq"'", W". Tjnge, Treasurer, W". Hibbens, Gent., Jacob
Eliot, John Oliver.
William Courser is appointed for this yeare next ensueing year
upon breach of the order concerning swine, made by the last gen-
eral Towne meeting, to Impound all such swine, for which he shall
have one pecke of Indian Corne payd to him by the owner, for
every such swine and every Trespasse, and in case the}^ be not
owned in  24  bowers  after the sayd Impounding, they shall  be
accounted and used as a stray.
This 29th of 3d mo., 1643.
At a generall Towne meeting upon lawfull warning.
Henry Webbe and Richard Fayrebankes are chosen Survej-gh-
ours of the highwayes in this necke for this next yeare also, and in
like manner James Penn and Wentworth Day, Gent., are chosen
surveyghours of the highwayes at Rumney marish.
At a meeting this  day of John Winthrop, Esq™, Governor, W"\
Hibbens, Gent., W"\ Tynge, Treasurer, Capt. Gibons, W". Col-
bron, Jacob Eliot, Valentine Hill, John Oliver.
Having considered the request of sundry Bretheren, concerning
Digging of a creeke for the Harbour of Boats in the marish neare
William Hudson, senior,  his howse, we doe conceive the worke
very necessary, and doe thinke meet to moove the Towne that  (if
they shall see good), it may be carryed an end with their coinon
assistance :      in  the meanwhile, John Winthrop, Esq™, Governor,
Valentine Hill,  merchant, Richard  Fayrebankes, Robert Turner
and James Davis, have liberty to make enterance into the worke.
(66.) Having considered the request of William Tynge, Treas-
urer, concerning the setting of a shop neere his yard palls, wethinke
good to refer the same unto further consideration, at the next Town
meeting, provided that the Toleration of the sayd shop untill then,
 - 97 - 
74             City Document No. 46.
shall  noe way prejudice  the  determuiation  of the  case  for the
future;  moreover, WilUam Hibbens, Gent., is  requested to gi^e
notice hereof unto Richard Bellingham, Esq., and to desire  his
presence at our next Towne meeting.
William Colbrou and Jacob Eliot are appointed sufficienth' to
repaire the coihon gate and fence next Rocksbury, for which the
Towne is to give them satisfaction.
William Courser is appointed to give notice to all men that have
set  up pattens,  and shores  against their fences  in  the  comon
streets,  to the annoyance of the wayes that they speedil}- cleare
the streets of them.
William Tynge, Treasurer, and John Oliver are appointed to laj-
out the highwayes in tiie raillfeilds.
Christopher Stanly is appointed to be water Bayliffe to cleare the
shoare from all  offences to boates or the like, betweene the high
water and low water marke.
Edm Jackson hath libert}' granted to mowe the marish he hath
formerly mowed in the necke.
This 5th of 4th mo., 1643.
At a generall Towne meeting upon lawfuU warning.
It's Ordered concerning swine, that none shall goe abroad upon
the neck, neither  winter  nor  suiuer, without being yoaked and
Ringed Sufficiently.   William Plaintayne  and Thomas Blot  are
appointed to see unto the excequution hereof, 6d. per swine being
allowed  them for  yoaking  and Ringing.   Thomas Marshall  is
appointed to assist them for the milnefeild.   Richard Fairebankes
in the mids of the Towne.  William Salter in M''. Colbron's end.
This 31st of 5th mo., 1643.
At a meeting this day of John Winthrop, Esq""% Governor, W".
Tynge, Treasurer, Capt. Gibons, Valentine Hill, John Oliver.
There is granted unto Henry Simons, George Burden, John But-
ton, John Hill, and their parteners. All that Cove (already bounded)
on the Norwest side of the Cause}- leading toward Charleton, with
all the salt marish bordering thereui)on round about, not Formerly
granted to any other (Reserving libert}' from time to time to make
use of any part thereof for repayring the sayd Causey) ,   to have
and enjoy the sayd cove and marish to them and their heyres and
assignes for ever.
Secondly, the sayd grant is  for this intent and upon this  con-
dition :      that the sayd Grantees their  heyres  and  assignes shall
within the space of three yeares now next following,  erect and
make upon or neere some part of the premises, one or more corne
mills, and maynteyne the same for ever.
Thirdly, that the sayd Grantees shall make and mainteyne for
ever a Gate of ten foot in breadth, to open with the Floud, for
Passage of Boats into the sayd Cove, at such time as they may
arrive at their ordinary landing places.
Fourthly.   The Towne doth grant unto them their heyres and
assignes three hundred acres of land at Braintry for the use and
encouragement of the said mill or mills.
 - 98 - 
Boston Town Records, 1643.            75
Fifth',  that if they  shall  carry their millstrearae  through  the
marish on the northeast end of goodman Lowe's howse, they have
sixtA' foot  in  breadth throughout the  sayd marish granted unto
them their Heyres, and assignes for ever.
[67.] Sixtly.   The}' shall have Liberty to Digge one or more
Trenches in the high vvayes or wast grounds, so as they make and
mainte^'ne sufficient, passable, and safe waj-es over the same for
horse and Cart.
Seventhly.   The Townewill not allow any other coinon mill to
be erected, except the  necessary' occasion  of the  Towne shall
require it.
Eighthl}'.  The sayd select Townsmen and their successours shall
procure what free  helpe  the}'  cann  (by perswasion)  upon any
pressing occasion of Use of many hands about making the bankes
or trenches,  &c.,  for the better furtherance of the worke to be
speedily Etfected.
There is liberty granted unto Edward Bendall to seeke out and
choose unto himselfe four hundred acres of Land at Braintree (by
vertue of assignement of the Afforesaid quantity unto him from M"".
Samuel Mavericke, unto whom it was first granted), not prejudice-
ing the smaller Lots of our Inhabitants there to be Layd out.
John Oliver is appointed to measure the three-hillraarish at Brain-
tree, in which M"". Wheelwright had a grant of fort}- acres,  and to
give notice to this meeting ofthe overplus above the sayd forty acres.
There is  20.".  allowed William Courser for his service about the
swine, which tooke him up (as he sayth) about three weekes time.
There is  liberty granted  unto  James Oliver to  Continue his
enterance into his sellar, where now it is  in the street, la3ing the
nether part of his dore flatt about 18 inches, or two foot.
Also there is liberty granted to the said James Oliver and M''.
Edward Tynge to straiten their street palls from David Sellecke,
his corner poste, unto the said Edward Tj^nge's Diall-poste.
This 25th of 7 mo., 1G43.
At a general Townsmeeting upon lawfull warning.
John Winthrop, esq'". Governor, Richard Bellingham, esq", W".
Hib'Dens, Gent., W"'. Tynge, Treasurer, Capt. Gibons, W'". Col-
bron, Jacob P^liott, Valentine Hill, John Oliver are chosen as for-
merly for the Townes affayres for these G months next ensueiug.
At a meeting the same day of John Winthrop, Esq"^",  Governor,
Richard Bellingham, esq"^*^,   W™. Hibbens,  Gent.,  W"\ Tynge.
Treasurer, W"\ Colbron, Jacob Eliot, Valentine Hill, John OUver,
There is granted unto Ensigne Savage an acre of marish, be it
more or lesse, Lying at the Nor-west end of Hog Hand, and for-
merly luiallotted, bounded with the upland toward the South, and
with the salt water on all other parts.
It's agreed that Arthur Perry, Drummer, shall have 91. for all bis
service for the Towne with his Drum this last yeare and halfe end-
ing on the 1st of the 7th mo. last past, to be payd bj'  Anthony
Stodder, late Constable, out of the Townes-rate.
This 27th of 9th mo., 1643.
At a generall Townes meeting upon lawfull warning.
 - 99 - 
76              City Document No. 46.
William Frankling Smith, is Choseu Constable in the stead of
Edward Tynge for this next ensuing yeare.
At a meeting this da}^ of John Winthrop, Esq''", Governor, W™.
Hibbens, Gent., W". Tynge, Treasurer, W". Colbron, Jacob Eliot,
John Oliver.
It's agreed betweene the select men on the Towne's behalfe [68]
,
and HughWiUiams and George Clifford :   That Nathaniel Newgate,
Apprentize to the said Hugh WilUams and George Clifford afore-
said,  shall  doe all  Coinon service in  druiiiing for the Towne on
trayning dayes and watches, The sayd  George for these  three
yeares next ensueing, and the said Nathaniel for these foure yeares
next ensueing, in Consideration whereof the Towne will be at the
charges of their learning skill in druiTiing.
It's further agreed with Arthur Perry that he shall give his Best
dihgence in Teaching the sayd George Clifford and Nathaniel New-
gate in all the skill  and use of the drum needfuU to all  common
service in military Affayres, in consideration whereofhe shall have
foure pounds payd to him within six mo:    next ensuing.
John Button and John Hill have now resigned all Claime of in-
interest in the businesse of the corne mills, agreed the 31 of 5 :   1G43.
There is liberty graunted unto John Hill, Blacksmith, to sinke a
well on the west side of his dwelling howse.
Thomas Clarke, late of Dorchester, hath libert}^ to wharfe before
his proprietye in the milfield against the sea.
The like  libertj'e  is  granted to John Milam before his present
dwelling howse.
It's ordered that the case concerning the shop set before William
Tynge, Treasurer, his freehold, shall be in the first place treated of
at our next Towne meeting.
The like libert}^ of wharfing is granted unto Valentine Hill before
his  proprietj-e in the milfield, provided that a libertye of colhon
landnig be reserved betweene the wharfe's  of Valentine Hill and
John Milam aforesaid.
William Tyngs, Treasurer, hath  the  like  liberty of  wharfing
before his propriety in the marish, neere John Lowe's howse granted
to him.
It's ordered that the high way of two rods in breadth shall be
preserved on the beach (as it  is  begun) from Edward Bendall's
cove towai'd John Gallop's Point.
[Here is  an asterisk,  and in  the margin are the words " vid.
pag. 69."   On p.  61)  is  the following entr}', evidentlj" omitted on
p. 68.   It begins as follows :  —]
[69.]  " I humbly crave pardon for this Error."
At the meeting of the selectmen on 27 of 9 mo. 1643.
The Intent  of the  Agreement between the  Towne and  the
Grantees of the  Cove,  &c., for the  Milne  is  as  followeth :   —
That the Grauutees shall not be bound to Reserve any marish if
they have Occasion to Cutt it  up ;    but in  that Case the Towne's
libert}- for repairing the Causewa}' shall  [70.] reach to such land
as shall be left, be it upp. or nether Spitt.
2.   That the sayd Grauntees shall  not be bound either to the
making or mainteyning of an^- such Milne or Milnes,  upon an}"
other penalty- than the Losse of the said Cove and Marish and other
 - 100 - 
Boston Toavn Records, 1643.            77
land Graunted to Retunie to the Towne againe as if  it  had not
bone graunted.  And for further explanation, It is  now declared
and agreed betweene the Towne ancl  the  Grauntees That if  the
said Grauntees shall not goe forward, nor perfect the said Worke,
as it is  Intended, or having perfected the same in  an}' measure,
shall see good at any time to give it  over, and not continue to
uphold and mainteyne the same, it shall be noe breach of cove-
nant on their part, onely the Graunt to be voyd (and so forth)
as before.   And whatsoever Timber or other Materials they shall
be at Cost to erect or bring upon the land Graunted, it  shall be
lawful for them to sell  off unto any other person within the space
of one yeare after they shall have left off to proceed in the sayd
worke,  or  to  uphold  and mainteyne the same being made and
finished, provided that if the Towne will give them for such Tim-
ber worke or other materialls so much as another, they shall have
the same, and one month's time for Refusall.
Moreover there is 33 foot in Breadth added to the former graunt
neere Goodman Lowe's howse, and both upon Condition the Milne
or Milnes may be set betweene Joh. Gallop's Point and Edward
Bendall's Cove.
[Here we return from this added part, on pp. 69 and 70, to the
regular record on p. 68. —W. H. W. ]
[68, cont.^   This 8th of 11th mo., 1643.
At a general Townsmeeting upon publick warning.
William Hibbens, Gent., John Wilson, Pastor of the  Church,
William Colbron, Deacon, are chosen to Treat with all  the neigh-
bouring Townes concerning  a  convenient  way of  Fortifying  at
Castle Island.
Also it's  agreed that  the  Fortification  begun upon the  Fort
Hill,  and  a  worke  for  that  end  some where  about AYalter
Merryes' Point, shall be raised. For the ordering of which Capt.
Keayne, Capt. Hawkins, Eusigne Savage, Sergeant Hutchinson,
Sergeant  Johnson, and Sergeant Oliver  are  chosen.   And the
Towne doe unanimously promise to supply all  necessary labours
and charges according to the Direction given them by the fore-
named Committee, according to an  equall  Rate  made by  their
Discretion.
This 19th of 11th mo., 1643.
At a generall Townsmeeting upon publick warning.
There is graunted unto M^ John Winthrop, Junr., and his part-
eners, and to their heyres and assignes for ever,three thousand acres
of tlie coinon land at Braintry,  for the encouragement of an iron
worke, to be set up about Monotocot River.   The said [69.] three
thousand acres to be la}^!  out in the Land next adjoyning  and
most convenient for their said Iron worke, by the  direction  of
the select Townsmen.
This 29th of 11th mo., 1643.
At a generall Townsmeeting upon publick warning.
It's agreed for the Repaire of the Castle, that the Towne of Bos-
ton will provide all  the timber, and lay it in its forme at the Castle
 - 101 - 
78              City Docuivient No. 46.
Iland for the worke at the Top of  the Hill,  in  case that other
Townes shall goe on with their proportionable shares of the worlcs
there.   Capt. Keayne and Capt. Hawkins are appointed to  I'reat
with other Towne's Comittces  about  the  same.   Furthermore,
The Towne consenteth to afford such helpe unto ten persons or
familyes as may encourage them in  their residence at the Castle
Island, the which is referred unto the select Townes men to agree
it with such as shall inhabit there.
The same day.
At a meeting this  da}^ of John Winthrop, Esq™, Governor, W™.
Hibbens, Gent., W™. Tynge, Treasurer, W™. Colbron, Jacob Eliot,
John Oliver.
W"\ Hibbins, Gent., and W". Colbron are appointed to lay out
the High way to the South-Wind-milne that lyeth betweene Thomas
AVheelar's and Robert Woodward's gardens.
There is  liberty granted to Ensigne Savage, Mathew Chafeth,
Isaak Cullimore, John Gallop, Senr., John Sweet, John Hill, Sam-
son Shore to make wharfes towards the sea before their proprietj^es
in the Milne-feild.
There is liberty  granted to Widdow Purton to mowe the marish
in the necke this 3-care which she hath mowed formerly.
There is granted unto Gryphen Bowin, Gent., an howse lot, if
any yet remaine to be disposed of.
William Hibbens, Gent., William Colbron and Jacob Eliot are
appointed to view the wast gi'ound before Joshua Seottoe's Sellar,
and to Report unto the next meeting whether an howse plot may
be graunted there to Richard Saudford.
Alexander Becke and EdmundJacks'on have liberty to mowe the
marish this next yeare which they have formerly mowed.
There is  graunted unto Abel Porter a Small parcell of Land,
about a quarter of an acre, undisposed, adjoyning to his Planting
ground at Long Iland.
It's ordered that Abraham Hagburne shall pay one shilling unto
the Towne for the use of the shop standing upon the Townes wast
before the propriety of William Tynge, Treasurer, for the  next
ensueing yeare, and that he shall remoove the said  shop (if  occa-
sion be) at two months' warning given hmi by the Towne.
[Here, as already explained, the record goes to middle of p. 70.
—W. H. W.]
[70.]  This 18th of 1st mo., 1644.
At a generall TowDsmeeting upon lawful warning.
Capt. Gibons, Capt. Keayne, Capt. Hawkins, Ensigne Savage,
Sgt. Hutchinson, Sgt. Johnson, Sgt. Oliver, are appointed to agree
with some Workemen, to Finish that worke our Towne is to doe at
the Castle, and that the Towne's Select men shall make a Rate for
the defraying of the charges thereof.
At a meeting this day of John Winthrop, Esq''^, Governor, W".
Hibbens, Gent., W". Tynge, Treasurer, W". Colbron, Jacob Eliot,
John Oliver.
There is graunted to Anthony Stoddard Hberty to make his Enter-
 - 102 - 
Boston Town Records, 1644.            79
ance out of the street into his Sellar, neere our Pastors house iu
such manner as was Grauntcd to James Oliver and to open his
shop-window-board two foot into the street.
There is graunted unio Wm. Teffe a parcell of land neere the
south wind mill to be layd out by William Colbron & Jacob Eliot
provided that He shall fence it  with posts,  and rayles,  and not
build upon it  nor plant it  with Indian coine nor any thing that
may hinder the windmill.
Wm. Frankling, blacksmith, is allowed (and that with Edw. Ben-
dalls Consent, to be one of those whose howsc abutteth upon the
high waye neere the Cove, and so to enjoye the libertye of the Cove
allowed to such as [71.] Abutt thereupon.
There is liberty graunted to Edward Bendall to procure the 400
acres formerly graunted unto Samuel Maverick, Gent, purchased by
him, to be layed out Orderly in and about a small parcell of raed-
dow found out by him in the upper parts of Monotocot River, neere
Taunton Path.
John Ruggle is appointed (as formerly) to keepe the milch cat-
tell for this next sumer.
John Oliver is appointed to lay out the marish formerly- graunted
to Richd Bellingham, esq"^", as neere as He can according to the
limits expressed in the Graunt.
There is liberty graunted unto John Bigs to fence his marish in
the necke formerly purchased of the Towne by the Direction of Wm.
Colbron, and Jacob Eliot, and if any quantity fall within the sayd
fence above his Proportion He is to allow the Towne for it.
This 29th of 2d mo., 1644.
At a meeting this 29th of 2d mo, 1644, of John Winthrop, esq™,
Governor, W". Hibbens, Gent., W'". Tynge, Treasurer, Valentine
Hill, W™. Colbron, Jacob Eliot, John Oliver.
It's ordered that Sergeant Major Gibons, Wm. Colbron, &Jacob
Eliot shall lay out such a parcell of Land in  some place of the
Commons of this neck as may satisfy Wm. Hibbens, Gent., for that
land of his which is enclosed with the breast worke upon the Fort
Hill.
There is  liberty graunted to Christopher Stanly to wharf before
his propriety neere Winnesemet ferr}* in the millfeild.
This 17th of 3d mo., 1644.
At a generall Townes meeting upon publick warning.
John Winthrop,  esq'^%  Governor, W". Hibbens,  Gent.,  W".
Tj'nge, Treasui'er, Sgt.  Major Gibons, W™. Colbron, Jacob Eliot,
Valentine Hill, James Penn, John Oliver, are chosen to Order the
affayres of the Towne, as formerly, for these six mo. next ensuing,
and till new be chosen.
This 29th of 5th mo., 1644.
At a meeting this day of John Winthrop, esq''*,  Deputy Gov-
ernor, Wilham Hibbens, Gent., Sgt. Major Gibons, Valentine Hill,
Jacob Eliot, John Oliver.
The Land within the Common fence at Braintry neere the Knights
 - 103 - 
80              City Document No. 46.
necke belonging to Boston is  hereby sold vinto  Sergeant Matson,
James Penniman, Moses Pa3'ne, Francis Eliot for 5s. per acre be it
more or lesse, to be payd in  Corne or Cattle within one moneth
into the hands of M^ Henry Flint of Braintry for his owue Use, on
consideration of his late gi*eat losse through the  hand of Gods
Providence by fire.
The Constables of this Towne are appointed to pay foure pounds
ten shillings unto Arthur Perry, part of seaven pounds due to him
for his service in Druiiiing untill the first  da^' of the first  month
last past,  and for teaching the use of the drumme according to
agreement made with him on 27 of 9, 1643.
The remaine is  pa^xl by 20s. to Widdow Hudson for him to be
allowed her in her present Rate, 10s.  in discharge of  [73.] his
owne Rate, and ten shillings to VV™. Davis for himto be allowed in
his Rate.
There is  5s.  allowed to Nathaniel Woodward Sen'' to be payd
by the Constables for la3-ing a water channell of Timber in one of
the Causwa3'es towards Rocksbui'y.
Zache Bozworth is  appointed Pound-keeper and to be allowed
for his service therein according to the order made on  13th  of
3d mo., 1637.
Walter Merrj' hath libert}^  grauuted him to wharfe before  his
Propriety by his present dwelling howse.
Sergeant Major Gibons, Valentine Hill, and John Oliver or any
two of them are appointed to veiw the wast ground neere John Hill
the Smiths howse, and to Consider whether any part thereof may
be conveniently sold to our bro. Thomas Marshall for the building
of a shop, and to make report thereof unto our next meeting.
Charity White is  allowed 26s.  for thirteene weekes keeping of
John Beny, to be payd by the Constables.
Nicholas Upshall hath liberty grauuted him to wharfe before his
propriety in the millfeild.
Richard Lippencot is Admitted Townsman.
That parcell of marish that belongeth unto the Towne of Boston
in  the  three-hill  marish  at  Braintry,  which was not  formerly
Counted to  belong to  M^ Wheelwright's  marish, together with
the two Hillucks of upland therein, is  grauuted, to be equally di-
vided  betweene  William  Tomson, Pastor,  and  Henry  Flynt,
Teacher, of the Church of Braintry.
Sergeant Matson hath liberty to mowc about two loads of hay
in the three-hill marish at Braintr}' this j'eare.
The Prices of Edward Bendall's wharfe are settled for a yeare,
and the writing is here to be entered.
[73.]  This 26th of 6th mo., 1644.
At a meeting this day of John Winthrop, esq..  Deputy Gov-
ernor, Wm. Hibbens, Gent., Major Gibons, Wm. Tynge, Treas-
urer, Valentine Hill, James Penn, Johu Oliver.
There is graunted unto Tho. Marshall, Shoemaker, 15 foot Square
upon the wast, neere John Hill, Blacksmith, his shop, to be sett out
by Valentine Hill and James Penn, for which he is to pay unto the
Townes use 20s. upon demand, and so to enjoy the same for three
 - 104 - 
Boston Town Eecords, 1644.            81
ycarcs certaine,  and if it  should afterward proove inconvenient
unto  the  Towne, He is  to  relinquish  the same againe upon 6
months warning, the Towne paing him his necessary charges ex-
l)on(led  thereon ;    provided allso that this graunt doe not Hinder
ihc present water course, nor any that may hereafter be graunted
for the Coves use.
There is  20s.  allowed to be payd to our brother Rawlines in
Consideration ofthe High way taken out of his corne feild behind
his dwelling howse.
Ordered to be sent unto Braintree.
" Bretheren and neicjhhonrs of Braintree^
" Having understood that you have, beyond the Power of yonr
warrant, chosen John Read, one of our Towne, to serve upon the
Grand Jury, we desire that 3-ou would not put an}' such hinderance
unto our Comfortable mutuall agreements one with another, but
that 3-0U would desist, and choose some other for that service."
It's ordered and agreed with James Penn that in Consideration
of his  land at the Fort hill  be it  more or lesse. He shall have 3
acres layd out next William Hibbins, Gent., his Land neere Rocks-
bury gate,  at the appointment of William Hibbens,  Gent,, and
William Colbron.
This 30th of 7th mo., 1644.
At a meeting this dayof John Winthrop, esq.. Deputy Governor,
Wm. Hibbens, Gent., Valentine Hill, James Penn, John Oliver.
Its ordered that the Constables shall pay unto Sergeant Turner
six pounds nine shillings due to him from t:he Towne.
Its ordered that the Constables shall pay unto Tho. Ohver, Elder
of the Church, seaven pounds for seaven months attendance upon
the Cure of the servant of Tho. Hawkins.
James Penniman, Thomas Matson, Francis Eliot, Moses Paine,
have paid ten pounds unto M^ Henry Flynt, as they were ordered
to doe on 29 of 5 mo., 44.                              3
Thomas Bell hath gi-aunted to him the small parcell of marish
at Long Island towards the East end, to enjo}' it  according to the
tenure of John Gallop's possession of marish there.
This 2d of 10th mo., 1644.
At a meeting this day of John Winthrop, esq.. Deputy Governor,
Wm. Colbron, Jacob P^liot, Valentine Hill, John Oliver.
Its ordered that the Constables shall pay unto Walter Merry 5.s.
for Fencing set up at the upp end of his [74.] garden by reason of
the high way there, and 3.s.  for the use of his boat to Wiunesemet
to carr^' workmen to repaire the high wayes there.
There is liberty graunted to Jasper Rawlines to make use of a
rood of upland for the making of Brickes at the Easterne end of
Sergeant Hues, his Corne feild neere Roxsbury gate.
Thomas Joy, Carpenter, is hereby required to make a safe pass-
age over his Sellar in the high way, by the water side, in  the mill-
foild  within  two dayes after  the sight of this order under the
poenalty of 20s.
6
 - 105 - 
82              City Document No. 46.
Its Ordered that the Constables shall  pay unto Arthur Perry
50s. for his halfe yearcs service in druming, ending on the first  of
7th mo. last past, and 40s.  for his  attendance on setting  of the
watches this last Summer.
There is  liberty graunted  unto  Deacon Eliot to sett  out his
barne six or eight foot into the street at the Dii'ection of Deacon
Colbron.
Its ordered that the Constables shall pay unto Deacon Eliot for
the use of m'' Woodbridge eight pounds due to him for keeping the
Schoole the Last yeare.
This 30th of 10th mo., 1644.
At a meetingthis day of John Winthrop, esq.. Deputy Governor,
Wm. Hibbens, Gent., Wm. Colbron, Jacob Eliot, Valentine Hill,
D'^acons, James Penn, John Oliver.
William Hibbens, Gent., and Valentine Hill are appointed lo
view the marish in the new feild  mowne by Edmund Jackson last
3'eare, and to report unto our next meeting whetherit be convenient
to sell it, and if so the valew of it.
The Constables have undertaken to mend the highway at the
head of the Cove neere their Shops, and to charge it to the Townes
account and also to make a sufficient cartway' in the street from
the Cove toward Charleton by what heipe of neighbours they can
attaine, whereof the Towne is to beare halfe the Charge.
The Constables are to Demand of Martin Sanders and George
Euggles of Braintree the money due to The Towne for Land sold to
them, and in case they refuse payment to sue them for it, the pay-
ment of it having bene for these sundry yeares witheld by them.
Assurance is hereby Given unto Tho :  Fowle, Gent, for his Satis-
faction concerning pa^-ment of his present Proportion toward the
Fortification at Castle Island, that noe more shall be required of him
toward the building of the worke now in hand there, and in case it
be not finished that halfe his mony expended shall be returned to
him.
There are two acres of ground added to James Penn his former
graunt on 26th of 6th mo., 44, for more full  satisfaction for his
land on the fort hill taken to the Use of fortification.
[75.]  Deare Island is let  to hire unto James Penn, and John
Oliver for these three j'ears next ensuing payinguntothe Use of the
Schoole seaven poundsperyeare.  In part whereof the}' are to repay
according to former orcler on 31st of 11th mo., 1641, unto Major
Gibons the mony pa3'd  by him unto John Ruggle, and that before
the 1st of 3d mo., 1645.   Moreoverthere is liberty graunted to the
Inhabitants of this Towne to cut wood on it  provided that they
carry off", or set the same on heapes, that it maynot be spoyled, nor
hinder the feed of Cattell.
This 27th of 11th mo., 1644.
At a generall Towne-meeting, upon warning  from  howse to
bowse.
Sergeant Major Gibons is  chosen to be of the Committee for
Castle Island, and to give order concerning the fortifications in the
Towne.
 - 106 - 
Boston Town Records, 1645.            83
This Da}'.   At a  meeting  of  John Winthrop,  esq., Deputy
Governor, ^Ym. Hibbens, Gent., Sgt.-MajorGibons, Wm. Colbron,
Jacob Eliot, Valentine Hill, Deacons, John Oliver.
Edward Miles is admitted Townesmau.
Valentine Hill, Deacon, together with one of the present con-
stables, are appointed Auditors of Anthon}^ Stodder late Constable
his accounts, and to make report thereof unto the select men at
their next meeting.
There is ten shillings allowed to be pa_yd b}^ the Towneunto wid-
dow Howin towards her reliefe, in Consideration of her shop now
standing in the market place speedily to be remooved.
There is graunted unto Joshua Scotto to straiten his pall at the
head of his howse plat neere John Lowes Howse as the head of the
sayd John Lowes palls runn, and to have that marish therein con-
te^'ned.
The remaining part of the sayd marish neere John Lowes howse
not formerly Disposed of  (except two rods broad next Thomas
Marshall, his garden palls), is Graunted unto Richard Bellingham,
Esq.,   for the Continuance of peace and love, In Consideration of a
quiet resignation of all claime unto the wast before his howse, to
be given unto the Towne under his hand.
This 31st of 1st mo., 1645.
At a meeting this day of John Winthrop, esq., Deputy Govern-
or, Wm. Hibbens, Gent., Wm. Colbron, Valentine Hill, Deacons,
James Penn, John Oliver.
It's agreed with Thomas Scotto, of this Towne, for his Dwelling
howse, and yard, and garden in this Towne, sold and delivered unto
the select men afforesaid, for the Towne use, with all  the appur-
tenances thereof, and groweths thereupon, and benefits that doe or
ma}' arise by virtue thereof, bounded with the Lands of  Henry
Messenger towards the  North ;     with  the Land of M'.  Richard
Hutchinson towards the East :    with the Comon street toward the
South :   with the Buryingplace toward the west, and all for the sume
of fifty-five pounds, to be payd as follows, vizt. :     fifteene pounds
by the said Thomas Scotto's  Order unto George Curtis of [76.]
this Town —five pounds whereof is to be pa3'd in wheat at present,
the other ten pounds to be payd by the end of the 8 month next
ensuing, halfe in money, halfe in merchantable beaver at the price
currant ;   And 15^. more bythe sayd Thomas, his appointment, unto
John Mellowes at his returne from his present sea voyage in  like
manner as the former or otherwise to his satisfaction.   And 2dl,.
more, partly in marish in the new feild, after the rate of 3/.  10s.
per acre, and the residue as shall be further agreed.
Macklin Knight and William Parsons are admitted Townsmen.
There is graunted unto Alexander Becke the little  marish next
M"".  Haughe's Point, be it  more or lesse, as it shall be found by
measure, after the rate of three pounds 10s. per acre, to be payd
the one halfe in wheat, and the other halfe in mon}' for the Towne's
use.
Jonathan Balston and Thomas Smith are admitted Townesmen.
 - 107 - 
84             City Document No. 46.
This 10th of 2d mo., 1645.
At a genex'all Tovvnesmeeting uponwarning fromhowse to howse.
It's  agreed  that  the  Towne's part  of  the  Garrison  at  the
Castle is to be niainte3'ned by Rate for this present yeare, which
is to be assessed by the Select men chosen this day ;    and the pres-
ent Constables, Thomas Marshall and William Frankling, together
with Sergeant Davis and Edward Bendall, are appointed to hire
eight fitt men for the said Garrison.
John Winthrop, esq., Deputy Governor, Wm, Hibbeus, Gent.,
Sergeant  Major Gibons. Wm. Colbron, Jacob Eliot,  Valentine
Hill,  Deacons, Edward Tynge, James Penn,  John Oliver,  are
chosen to order the Towne's affaires  as  formerly for these  six
months next ensuing, and Till new be chosen.
This 28th of 2d mo.,1645.
At a meeting of John Winthrop, esq., Deputy Governor, Wm.
Hibbens, Gent., Wm. Colborn, Valentine Hill,  Deacons, Edward
Tynge, James Penn, John Oliver.
It's ordered that for the Repaire of Rocksbury Gate, 2d. shall be
lev3'ed upon every head of great Cattell allowed to goe upon the
Commons in this necke, to be payd by the owners of them, and to
be gathered by the present heardsman, John Ruggles.
The Constables are appointed to require and receive of Thomas
Joy, or to levy by distresse upon his goods, 20s. for the Townes
Use, due upon his neglect of the Townes order concerning making
a safe passage over his Sellar in the highway, by the water-side, in
the mill-feild ;     and he is herebyrequired to mend it within twodayes
after the notice given him by one of the Constables, under the
pcEualt}' of 20s. more.
There is granted unto David Phippen hberty of wharfing before
his propriety, neere the milne Creeke.
There is liberty graunted unto AViddow Howin to cut hay this
next summer, for the wintering of one Cowe, in [77.] some part
of the marish neere Rocksbury gate, where cattell cannot Come to
feed.
This 26th of 3d mo., 1645.
At a meeting this  day of John Winthrop, Esqre., Deputy Gov-
ernor,  Wm. Colbron,  Valentine Hill,  Deacons,  Edward Tynge,
James Penn, John Oliver.
It's Agreed with Martin Sanders and George Ruggle of Braintry,
that whereas the}' purchased 22 acres of Land at Braintry for 12s.
per acre, allthough the Payment have bene now long deferred, yet,
in Consideration of the Rockynesse of some part of it,  there are
foure acres allowed to make good the rest upon condition that they
make payment of ten  pounds,  sixteene  shilUngs,  one third  in
wheat, one thu-d in  pease, one third in Rye, into one of the Con-
stables hands of Boston, at the price currant when it is due, being
at or before the last of the eighth month next ensuing, which they
have accordingly promised to doe, otherwise the said abatement is
voyd, and the former Bargaine to stand good.
It's Ordered, that speedy notice shall be given by the Constables
 - 108 - 
Boston Toavn Records, 1()45.              85
to John Milam to repaire and make safe the  passage over the
bridge  neere  Leonard Buttles  howse, within  three  dayes after
notice given, under the poiualty of 20s.  to be distrayned by the
Constables.
In Consideration of the great annoyance complayned of to be
done b}'  Swine at Pulling Point,  specially by some that  keepe
excessive numbers there, It's ordered that none shall suffer above
three swine to goe abroad for twenty acres of Land lying unfenced in
Coinon with other  Lands there  (unlesse the}' shall jointly agree
otherwise among themselves), and those to be sufficiently ringed,
under the poenalty of two shillings for every swine found abroad
above the saj'd number prescribed, or not ringed, to be payd unto
the Townes use, beside the damage done by them, for which satis-
faction is to made unto such persons to whom the damage is  done.
For the Levying whereof the owner of the Land against whom the
Trespasse is  Committed shall have power to take up and keepe
the sayd Trespassing swine, one or more, in his yard, for the space
of 24: houres, in which time if,  upon notice given to the owner of
the sayd swine, satisfaction be not made, the sayd swine shall be
sold, and the saj'd  pQ?nalty and damages being discharged, the
rest is to be returned unto the owner of the sa3'd swine.
This 15th of 7th mo., 1645.
At a meeting this  day of John Winthrop, esqre.. Deputy Gov-
ernor, Wm. Hibbens, Gent., Wm. Colbron, Jacob Eliot, Deacons,
James Penn, Edward Tynge, John Oliver.
Wm. Colbron and James Penn are appointed to lay out, before
our next meeting, the way through the gardens towaixls the South
Wind-mill, to begin betweene Nicolas  [78.] Parker's house and
Robt. Eenolds Garden, and to goe forth betweene Amos Richard-
son's and John Palmer's house, and to give notice hereof to the
owners of the Lands through which it is to be layd.
This 29th of 7th mo., 1G45.
At a meeting this day of John Winthrop, esqre.. Deputy Gov-
ernor, Wm. Colbron, Jacob Eliot,  Deacons, James Penn, John
Oliver.
Received of Alexander Becke foure pounds seven  shillings in
full satisfaction for the marish grauhted him one 31st of 1st month,
45, being about an acre and quarter.
There is graunted unto Arthur Clarke an howselot next unto the
howse-lot of John Search, to be laj'd  out by Wm. Colbron and
Jacob Eliot.
Whereas, the severall graunts  of hows lots,  and other  lands
recorded in this Towne booke, are entered onely as graunted to the
partyes themselves without mention of their heyres, it  hath beene
thought fitt to be hereby declared and Ordered that all suchgraunts
were, and shall be Intended to be estates in Fee simple, with all
due  and usuall privile<lges and appurtenances, and are so to be
construed, and taken to all  Intents, except in such cases wherein
any particular estate for tearme of j'cares is specially expressed.
The Constables are to pay unto Arthur Perry five  pounds for
 - 109 - 
86              City Doclcvient No. 46.
his last  yeares service in drumming, ending on the last of sixt
month last past, and thirt}' shillings more for drum heads, &c.
This 27th of 8th mo., 1645.
At a meeting this da}' of John Winthrop, esqre., Deputy Gov-
ernor, Wm. Hibbins, Gent., Wm. Colbron, Jacob Eliot, Deacons,
Edward Tynge, James Penn, John OUver.
It's  Ordered that the Constables shall sett off  six shillings  of
Henry Messenger's Rates, for mending the Schoole Masterhis part
of the partition fence betweene their gardens.
The marish that remaines in the Townes hands over against John
Barrels howse is  graunted to Edward Bendall, paying unto the
Towne for it as it shall be prized by Wm Colbron and John Oliver.
[More " In the margen."]   Which being prized was refused b}^
Edward Bendall, soe the grant is voyd.
The 26th of 10th mo., 1645.
At a Generall metinge upon publicke notice, are chosen for this
year the Select men, M^ John Winthrop, Esqre., Deputy Gov-
ernor, M^ Hibbins,  Maior Gibbons, Capt. Keayne, M'. Fowle,
M^ Colbourne, M^ Hill, Jacob Eliot, James Penn.
The 29th of 10th mo., 1645.
At a metinge this Da}^ of John Winthrop, Esqre., Deputy Gov-
ernor,  Will.  Hil)bens,  Gent.,  Maior  Edward  Gibbons,  Robt.
Keayne, Tho. Fowle, Will. Colbourne, Valt.  Hill,  Jacob Eliott,
James Penn.
It's Ordered that M"^. Fowle and James Penn, with the Constable,
shall take b}- Will. Francklins acount, lat. Constable.
James Penn is chosen Recorder and Tresurer for the Towne.
[79.]  Assurance  is   herb}^  given  unto Samuell  Mavericke,
Gent, for his Satisfaction concerning the payment of his  present
Proportion of charge toward the fortification at Castle Hand, that
in case the said fortification be deserted or demolished  (except by
adversary power) within these three years next ensueing, the select
Townsmen now being, shall  I'epay unto him the sayd charge now
expended by him towards the sayd fortification.
The 23d, 12 mo., 1645.
At a meeting this Day of John Winthrop, esqre.. Deputy Gov-
ernor, Will.  Ilibbin,  Gent.,  Mai°^ Gibbons, Tho. Fowle, Gent.,
Capt. Robt. Keayne, Will.  Colbourne, Vail,  Hill,  Jacob Eliot,
James Penn.
Edward Harison is admitted a townsman.
Tho. Scotto is  apointed to see that the  Graves be digged five
foot deep, and to see the Gates be fast and the fence up, and to
have some alowance.
Tho. Scotto is appointed pound-keper, and to be allowed acord-
ing to the former order.
Christopher Lawson hath libertye towharfe afor his howse, being
that which was Sampsone Shoors by Walter Merrys maintaining a
hyghway.
 - 110 - 
Boston Town Records, 1646.            87
Barnabas Faour and Arthur Perry have liberty to wharfe afor
their dors,  maintaining a cartway and the  hj-ghwa}- free  to the
towne though it  be wharfed by them.
For the diference betwen Georg Griggs and Will Blanton, it  is
ordered that George Griggs shall set np his Garden fence betwen
them b}^ the 30th, 2d mo., 1646, in penalty;' of 20s. for the default
herof.
Its granted to Alexsander Adams to wharf afor his howse, main-
taining a hyghwa}^ for a cart, and this wharfe to be the breadth of
all his ground.
Walter Merryis ordererd, that by the loth of the 3d mo. next he
shall make a suficient hyghway, of 16 foote in breadth, from his
howse to the watters side, in the penalty of 20.s., to be payd to the
tresurer of the towne ;    and in  case it be not then done to tlie con-
tent of the townsmen, they will then consider further of his breach
of the former order.
The 23d, 1st mo., 1646.
At a generall Towns meting it  is  agreed on that on the second
da}' of the first monelh is apointed to met at eight of clocke in the
morning to chose Deputys for the Generall Court and townsmen for
that year and Constal)les and Surva^'ors for the hyghways, evry3'ear.
23,  1  mo., 46.   Nicholas Willis, James Everill,  Tho. Grubb,
Robt. Tourner, Shoomaker, Constables, for this 3-eare.
William  Colbourne and James Penn are  apointed to  lay out
the footway from Mr. Nicholas Parkess howse through the gardens
to the mill lane or street.
Proposicous presented to the Townsmen on the behalfe of the
Inhabitants of the North end of the towne of Boston, tlie ratifica-
tion wherof is  desired and the registringe of them in the towne
Records.
1
.
That we of this end of the towne whose harts the Lord hath
made willinge to set about the  erectinge  and maintenance of a
fortificacion  att Walter Merr3''s point, ma}' for the future be freed
from all rats and assessments to what other fortificacions be in the
towne untill sucli time as the other part of the towne not ioynninge
with us herin, shall have disbursed and layd out in equall propor-
cion of their estats with ours, as by true acount may apear.
2.  That the land gained at the Townes charge and staked out
to the townes service by thos deputed for that end to the raysinge
of a  work upon, may not  by any to  tlie  private  ocations  be
imployed or mad use of, as alsoe that the ground nor flats  befor
the sayd worke may not be disposed of by the towne unto any par-
ticular mans imploy to the predjudic of the sayd worke.
[79.*]  30th, 1st mo., 1646.
At a meting,  John Winthrop, Esqre, Deputy Governor,  M'.
Wm. Hibbons,  M^ Tho.  Fowle,  Wm. Colbourne,  Valt.  Hill,
Jacob Eliot, James Penn.
John Berry is  put  an aprentice to Edward Keyly for seaven
*Two pages are  numbered 79  in  the  original,  and  notice  called  thereto  by
the clerk at the time.
 - 111 - 
88              City Document No. 46.
yeares.   Wm. Brisco, The. Buttolfe,      Leaug""* :    Win. Blanton,
John Search, Robt Woodward, that hath hows plots unbuilt  on
them shalbe warned to the next townse mettinge.
It is ordered that M^ Cuddington shall set up his garden fences
by the 14 :     2 mo. :   46, that lys betwene John Odhn aud himself
and others,  upon penalt}^  of five  shillings  p.  rod for  evry rod
defect.
Henyry Duglice is admitted a townesman.
Capt.  Hardinge hath  libert}^  to  Consider of his  hieringe  the
marish till the 6 :    2 mo. :    46.
Rich :    Holidge is to mowe that marish at Long 3-land this year
for 2s. Gd. p. 3-ear.
Georg HalsoU is graunted liberty to set downe a cawsey ten foot
Square from his wharfe at the northend of it  to low watter marke,
and that passingers shall Come and goe free to it.
The 27th, 2 mo., 1646.
At a meeting this  da}' of John Winthorp, Esqre, Deputy Gov-
ernor, Wm. Hibbins, Gent., Tho. Fowle, Wm. Colbourne, Jacob
Eliot, James Penu.
Wm. Blancher is  admited to dwell in the towne, and follow his
trade, beinge a taj'lor.
Iho. Joanes is apointed Cowekeper this yeare, andto begin the 28
of 2 mo. 46, and he is allowed two shillings a Cowe, halfe of it att the
24 of the 4 mo. ;   he shall receive, and the rest at the end of the year.
It is ordered that the drj'e  cattell shalbe put of from the necke
b}' the 1,5 of the 3 mo., 46, accordinge to former order.
A ratt, Made the 27 of the 2d mo., 46., of one hundred pounds
for  the Country's debts, put into the hands of  Nicholas Willis,
Robt. Tourner, James Everill, Tho. Grub, Constabls, and for the
towne's ocations was mad, 133 —12 —0.
Maior Gibbons, Capt. Robt. Keayne is  chosen Deputy's for this
Court in the 3d mo, 46.
Wm. Halston is admitted a townsman.
This 18th of 3d mo., 1646.
At a Generall townes metting upon lawful! warninge of all  the
freemen, it is  graunted that all  the Inhabitants shall  have equall
Right of Coiuouage in the towne ;   those who are admitted by the
townesmen to be inhabitants.
It is ordered that all who shall after the dat herof come to be an
inhabitant in the towne of Boston, shall not have right of Common-
age, unlese he hier it of them that are Commoners.
It  is  ordered that there shalbe kept on the Common bye the
Inhabitants of the towne but 70 milch kine.
It is  ordered that ther shalbe no dry cattell, yonge Cattell, or
horse shalbe free to goe on the Common this year :    but on horse
for Elder Oliver.
It is  ordered that noe Inhabitant shall have power to sell  his
right of Comonage, but only to let it out to hier from year to year.
*Doubtless Jacob Leager.
 - 112 - 
Boston Town Records, 1646-7.          89
[80.] It is  ordered that  what soever Cowe or horse  shalbe
found upon the necke besid the  former 70 allowed of shall  pay
C(/.  the da}- and night for a cowe, and 12d. the day and night for
an horse ;     this order to begin from the 20th of this month.
It is ordered that the present Cowe keper shall take the forsayd
forfeitures, or impound the cattell, and shall have the on halfe for
his paines, retourning the other halfe  unto the towne's Recorder
for the towncs use.
It is ordered that if any desire to kep sheep, hee may kep foure
sheep in liew of a Cow.
It is ordered that the land upon the marish, by the towne's men's
order to M"".  Wm. Hibbins and James Penn, shall stand good.
It is  ordered that noe Coinon Marish and pastur ground shall
herafter bj-e gift, or sayle, exchange, or otherwise, be counted unto
proprict}-, without Consent of the major part of the Inhabitants of
the towne.
This 19th of 8th mo., 1646.
Agenerall townes metting warned from howse to howse.
It is ordered and agreed on that Bro. Tlio. Marshall, bi*o. Chaff}',
bro. Negoos, Wm. Franeklin, lat Constables, are to be presented
to the Generall Court for to answer the defect in not payinge that
which is behind on the Garison's wages.
It is ordered that ther shalbe a ratt of GOl. forth with made by
the townesmen for the satisfienge of the Garisou at the castle this
year ensueinge.
This 25th of 11th mo., 1646.
At a metting this day of John Winthorp, esqre. Governor, Wm,
Hibbins, Gent., Major Gibbon, Capt. Robt. Keayne, Wm. Col-
bourne, Vail.  Hill, Jacob Eliot, James Penn.
It is ordered that Wm. Davice, the apotecary, shall have leave to
sett up a pay11 afor his hall window and parlor window 3 foot from
his howse.
It is ordered that M''. Tho. Oliver shall have nine pounds for his
curinge Rich. Berry, that was Tho. Hawkins' man.
It is ordered that George HalsoU shall make upthe towne's hygh
way that lys betweene his garden and the sea that he hath diged
away, by the 6th of the 3d mo. next cnsuinge.
It is ordered that George Halsoll shall kep and iraploy a passag
boatt betweene his wharfe and the ships wher the ships rid, and is
allowed to take a peny for each person for passage, and no other
man is to make use of his wharfe or landing plac for hyer or re-
ward, but it shalbe lawfull for any seamen or others to pass to and
fro his sayd landinge place in ther on boots without payinge any
thinge for themselves or freinds.
This 13th, 1  mo., 1647.
At a meeting  this day of M^ Wm. Colbourne, M^ Anthony
Stodder, Jacob Eliot, Wm. Davice, Tho. Marshall, James Everill,
James Penn.
The constables that wer :     Nicholas Willis, Robt. Tourner, James
 - 113 - 
90              City Document No. 46.
Everil, Tho. Grubb, have Given in ther acounts to full discharge
for a ratt 144L
This 18th of 1st mo., 1647.
A Generall townes mettinge warned from howse to  howse, are
Chosen for this yeare  the  Selectmen :    M^ Wm. Colbourne, M''.
Anthony Stodder, Jacob Eliot,  Tho.  Marshall,  James Everill,
M^ Wm. Davice, James Penn.
For Deputys of the Generall Court :    Maior Gibbons, M^ Wm.
Tinge.
For Constables: M'. Wm. Davice, Robt Hull, Tho. Buttolfe,
James Penn.
For Survaj^ers :     James Oliver,  Will. Hudson, Rich. Gridley,
Edward Fletcher.
For Sealers of Leather :   Bro. Copp, EvanThomas, Will. Courser,
John Stevenson.
[81.]  This 29th, 1st mo., 1647.   At a mettinge this daye of
M"". William Colbourne, IVP. Anthon}^ Stodder, Jacob Eliot, James
Evirill, Tho. Marshall, M'. W". Davice, James Penn.
It is ordered that no Inhabitant shall entertaine man or woman
from any other towue or Countrye as a sojourner or inmate with
an intent  to  reside  here,  butt  shall  give  notice thereof  to  the
Selectmen of the towne for their approbation within 8 da3'es after
their Cominge to the towne upon penalty of twenty shillings.
It is farther ordered that no Inhabitant shall farme, lett, or putt
to sale  to  any person  any howse or bowses within this  towne,
without first acquaintinge the select men of the town theirwith.
Itt is farther ordered that no person shall goe about to dig any
seller, or erect any building in the face of the street, till they have
given notice thereof to the selectmen of the towne, upon penalty
of twent}^ shillings.
)
'           M^ Heniry Weeb shall enioye the wharfe that he did purchase
of M'. Edward Tinge for his sole right without disturbance.
Wm. Brisco and Raph Roott is to see to the makinge up of the
fences att Muddy river.
Itt is ordered that Tho. Joans shall keep the cowes of the towne
this present j'ear acordinge to former order.
It  is  ordered that noe person shall dig any soods out of the
common upon perill that may insue on the Damage soe done, nor
mowe any grass in the marish.
It is  ordered that their shalbe a hygh waj", Containinge 12 foot
through M''^ Stoughtons ground along the rayle side and soe thro
Rich. Cooks and Tho. Butolffs Ground to the farder end of the lots
to Tho. Munts Ground on the farthest side.
The 26th, 2d mo., 1647.
A metenge of M^ Wm. Colbourne, Jacob EUot, Mr. Anthony
Stodder,Tho. Marshall, James Everill, M^Wm.Davice.JamesPenn.
It is ordered that all fences that lie in devision betweene on and
other  shalbe maintained equally by the  proprieters of the land
within the towne of Boston.
 - 114 - 
Boston Town Eecords, 1647.            91
Beniamin Ward hath libert^e to wharf afor his on proprietye.
Beniamiu Ward hath bought of the towne the eight part of the
marish that is next to him, that M^ Aspinwall layd out, for 3^. per
annum this too years, and if the rest of the marish be not let  out
to make up 20^. a year within too years, he shall at the end of too
years give foure pounds per annum for his eight part per annum
forever, to begin his quarter day the 1, 3d mo., 1647.
Its ordered that John Anderson hath libertye to wharfe afor his
proprietye and that part of the Comon li3'gh way that lyes next to
him ;    he shall make noe hows on it  for any ocation, and he hath
libertye to take wharfage on it for the goods that is landed on it.
John Milam hath liberty to wharfe  afor the highwa}^ that lys
next him.
The 31st, 3d mo., 1647.
A metinge  this  day of M^ Wm. Colbourne, Jacob Eliot,  M'.
Anthon}- Stodder, Tho. Marshall, James Evirill, M"". Wm. Davice,
James Penn.
John Jibson is allowed a townesman.
John Chandler is allowed a townesman.
Tho. Leader is allowed a townesman.
M^ Edwards is admited to live in the towne.
Martin Stilibin is forbiden and not allowed to brewe any more
bear to sell, save only this week in beinge.
Isac Groose is not to sell any bear by the quart within dors any
more.
It is ordered that noe swine shall goe abroad unyoked nor un-
ringed, winter nor suiScr, upon penaltye of 12d. for evry suche
defect.
[82.]  The 26th, 5th mo., 1647.
At a meetinge this da^' of M^ Wm. Colbourne, Jacob Eliot, M'.
Anthony Stoddard, Tho. Marshall,  James Everill,  Wm. Davis,
James Penn.
Martin Stebbin is  fined 20s.  for brewinge bear to sell without
order.
Martin Stebl)in is allowed to brewe bear at a peny a quart, and
too quarts a peny, and not to exceed upon penaltye of 201. fine.
It is ordered that noe person shall sell any bear publicklye with-
out allowance and approbation from the select men of the towne
upon penaltye of nineteene shillings sixe pence every weeke for
offendinge.
It is ordered that the anoyance that is  made bye Robt. Nash in
his slaughter howse, b3-his kilUnge of beasts in the street now layd
out, that hee shall remove that anoyance on penaltye of 19s. 6d.
for evry defect iustl}' complayned of.
The 31st, nth mo., 1647.
Att a meetinge  this  daye  of  Wm. Colbourne,  Jacob Eliot,
Anthony Stoddard, Tho. Marshall, James Everill, Wm. Davis,
James Penn.
The three thousand accres of Land given by the towne towards
 - 115 - 
92              City Document No. 46.
the  incoradgment of  the  h-on  works at  Braintrye  is  layd  out
acordinge to order.
M^ Hill and M^ Winthorp is to make halfe the bridge over the
cricke that is diged by M"'. Hill, which lyes betwone him and the
townes marish.
Deare Hand is lett to Edward Bendall, of Boston, with all  the
profitts their of whatsoever, for the tearrae of seaven years next
ensuing the date hearof.   In Consideration wherof hee is  to pa}""
to the Towne of Boston the sum of fourteen pounds per annum for
the scooles use of the sayd Towne in  provision and clothing, pro-
vided their be reserved a liberty for the Inhabitants of the towne
of Boston to cutt wood for their own use, nott bringing a draught
upon the Hand to cart withall, except it be with the consent of the
sayd Edward Bendall.
The 13, 1 mo., 1647.
At a  gonerall  townsmettenge  upon publicke notice is  chosen
this  year for Townsmen, Wm. Colborne, Jacob Eliot,  Anthony
Stoddard, Edward Tinge, Tho. Marshall, James Everill,  James
Penn.
For Constables,  Jerimye Howchin, David Phipen^'-,  Nicholas
Busb}', Wm. Beamsley.
For Survayors, John Button, Beni. Fjiwr, Walter Merry, Wm.
Blanton, M"". Cole for Rumney Marsh.
For Sealers of leather, Tlio. Marshall, Edmond Jackson.
It  is  ordered, that noe Constables shalbe discharged of their
place till  they have  given up their acounts of the ratts that is
Coramited to them.
An acount  taken  of Wm. Davis, Robt. Hall, Tho. Buttolfe,
James Penn, Constables, the year past, of too ratts, for the Coun-
try, which came to a  199^. 18.s.  llcZ., and a ratt for the garrison
of 751. U.S. all of which are fully cleared and discharged bye the
tresurer and the towne as our counts doth appeare.
The 27, 1 mo., 1648.
At a meetinge this daye of Wm Colbourne, Jacob EUot, Edward
Ting, Tho. Marshall, James Penn, James Evirill.
Robt. Renolds hath pa3d his six shillings, eight pence, that was
due to the towne for his land, which leift  Savidge received for a
debt due to him.
Wm. Philips hath payd his 1/.  16.s. 8d. that was due from Chris-
topher  Stanley to  the towne for  his  land, which leift.  Savidge
received for a debt due to him.
The 8: 3 mo., 1648.
At a generall townes metting upon publicke notice were chosen
Deputys for the Court of election, Capt. Keayne, James Penn.
[83.] It is ordered, this 27th :   1 :   mo., 1648, thatnoe swine shall
go abroad unyooked nor unringed sufficiently,  winter or suiiier,
upon penalty of 12c/. for evrye on soe scene, without beinge yooked
and ringed, acordinge to the order of the Generall Court, made the
9th mo., 1647, who requires the execution hereof upon the townes
 - 116 - 
Boston Toa\t^ Records, 1648.            93
by the select men, and in ease they doe neglect the performance of
it they are to have levied of their estate forty shillings every month
soe neglectiuge ;   this order to be put in execution on the 6th :   2d :
mo ,   1048.
29: 3: mo., 1648.
At a metinge this day of M^ "Wm. Colbourne, Jacob Eliot, M^
Edward Tinge, Tho. Marshall, Jan*es Everill, James Pcnn.
Tho. Emims is admited to be an Inhabitant.
Michaill Wills is admited to be an Inhabitant.
It is ordered, that Benia :    Ward shall pay but three pounds per
annum for the marish that hee hyei'S of the towne, not expectinge
foure per annum after too years, acordinge as the former contract
did bind him unto.
There is sold unto John Hurd a small peece of ground lyinge at
the end of his howse plat for ten shilhngs.
The 29: 11 mo., 1648.
At a meetinge this day of M^ Wra. Colboui'ue, Jacob Eliot,
Tho. Marshall, James Eviiill, James Penn.
There is sold unto Ilngh Gunison sixe foot of Ground in bredth
and twelve foot in  length, downe to his sign post, to payle in, for
forty shillings.
There is graunted to Isac Waker liberty to set up a porch afore
his dore foure foot into the street from his howse dore and sixe
foot by his howse side.
There is graunted unto Tho. Marshall all  that marish, Contain-
ing too rods in breadth, that lys betweene M"". Rich. Bellinghara
and himself, in pa. 75, in exchange for that 15 foot of ground that
hee bought of the Towne, acordinge to that order entered pag. 73,
but the Towne did not think fit,  on Consideration, to make good
that sayle to him.
The 26: 12 mo., 1648.
At a  meetinge  this day of M^ Wm. Colbrone, Jacob Eliot,
Tho. Marshall, James Evirill, James Penn.
M^ Richard Bellingham  hath  liberty to wharfe afor his  pro-
prietye  that  lieth  between Walter Merry and Wm. Winbourne,
provided that it doth not prejudice the battery.
Jerimye Ilowchin hath liberty to set up a portch 4 foot from his
howse, and soe all alonge by his howse, to set up a payle before it.
It is oi'dered, that Jacob Eliot shall have the swamp that joyneth
to his allotment at mudye River next to Cotton Plax house bye the
Common feild, Reservinge libertye to cut hedginge wood in it  for
the Common fence that runeth thro the sayd swamp.
It is ordered upon Consideration of our Bro. Bendall's request
about Dear Hand, which the towne let  to him for seven years, it is
Granted to him that his seven years shall  be made up twenty and
one years payinge his rent of 14L per annum, according to former
agreement, provided that he shall leave a suply of wood for the
[84.] Maintenance of on family for ever, as also whatever fruit
trees he [corner torn off]  plant their he or his hayrs shall leave
standing at the end of his [torn off.]
 - 117 - 
94             City Document No. 46.
It is  ordered, and agreed upon the perusall of the acounts of
M"'. Hill [      ] Edward Bendall about the cove or docke in their
charges, which they [       ] in the five j'ears  allowed them l\y the
towue to expend in as appears [       ] 56, which we find to put to
account 818L 13s. 4d., which makes their nu[    ] of years for
them to possess to be four score from the year 1646.
It is ordered, that James Johnson shall have sixteene foot of
ground from his howse southward alonge downe to  his  garden
payle post, in consideration that he shall make and maintaine for-
ever a sufficient hygh wayfor foot and Cart over the watter Course
which runs from M'". Hutchisons yard alonge by his howse end.
It is  ordered that John Baytman, John Burrill, Tho. Hawkins,
James Hawkins and the rest of the naybours shall have liberty to
remove away that crose  worke that is  set over the milne creeke
which hiudreth the passage of boats, upon such Condition that they
shall make the creek goe alonge out to loe watter marke.
jVr. AYilliam  Brenton hath liberty to  set  up a portch afore his
howse to range even in the street with M'. Hills and M'. Hardings.
Ther is graunted unto Ensigne Hutchison, Benia :  Gillum, Benia :
"Ward, Jonathan Balston, John Compton, Tho. Smyth,  Steevea
Butler,  Rich.  Richison, liberty  to  make a hyghway from  their
howses over the marish to the bridge and over M''. Hills Ground
upon then- owne charges which was eight pounds, sixteene shil-
lings, for which chai'ges they are free  from Hyghwa}^ charges this
nine years.
Ther is ordered that a hyghway of twelve foot betweene Capt.
Hardings howse and Wm. Davice howse, shall  goe alonge to the
bridge which the towne and M"". Hill set up together, beinge to be
made by the towne and M'.  Hill, and for that hyghway their is
graunted to W. Hill a way to his  Ground by the sea side alonge
bye the howse of Wm. Hudson, senior, and a cart way below the
wharfe.
The 12th 1 :    mo., 1649.
At a generall Townesmeettinge of all the Inhabitants upon pub-
lique warninge were chosen for Deputys of the Generall Court for
this year Capt. Keayne and James Penn.
For select men were chosen M''.  Wm. Colborne, Jacob Eliot,
Anthony Stoddard, JerimyHowchin, Tho. Marshall, James Everill,
James Penn.
For clarkes of the market, Jerimy Howchin, James Penn.
For Constables,  M'.  Tho.  Clarke,  Theodor Atkinson,  Tho.
Clarke and Barnabas Fawer.
For survayers of the Hyghways, Christopher Gibson, Walter
Mereye, John Button, Wm. Blautcn.
For Sealers of leather, Ricli. Weeb, Robt. Tourner.
It  was further ordered that the select men of the towne shall
take order aboute Longe Hand and Spectacle Hand, with them that
now hold it, to instate it  on them for Inheritance, upon paying a
yearly rent upon evrye accre for the Schols use.
It was farther ordered that those that shall Tindei'take to builde a
howse for the Courts to be kept in, shall  have the Imunitye of it
that comes b}' any tole or rent to them and their hayers for ever.
 - 118 - 
BosTOX To^vN Records, 1649.            95
It is ordered that the Hyghway that lieth on the south side of the
watter mihie shall  run alonge bye the Corner of the sayd milne a
rod in breadth, as it  is  layd out in a strait line  to the milne hill
that lies to the ferrye to Charlton.
M^ Tho. Clarke is  fined  20s.  for refusing to  serve his  Con-
stables place.
[85.]  [Corner torn]   9:2: mo., [-]649.
Ameetinge this day of M"". Wm. Colbrone, Jacob Eliot, Anthony
Stoddard, Jerim^- Howchin, Tho :     Marshall, James Evirill, James
Penn.
In the place of M"". Tho. Clarke was chossen Isaac Waker to be
Constable for this year.
Wm. Philips hath agreed to give 13s. 4cL per annum for ever
to the use of the schole for the land that Christopher Stanley gave
in  his will for the schols use ;    the rent day began the 1 of March,
1649.
Moses Paine, of Braintr}^, hath let to him 500 Accers of land,
to be la3"d  out at Braintry, painge forty shillings per annum for
ever, for the schols use, and to  begin his  rent daye on the first
of Maye, 1649, to be pa3'd on the first of the first mo. for ever, in
corne or porke at the prize curant, and that to be payd into the
towne treasuree successivl^^e.
John Barrill, John Odlin, Wm. Ludkin, James Browne, Benia-
min Negoose, Raph Masson,  James Davise, Edward Dinis, Tho.
Munte, Rich. Cartter, Abell Porter, Tho. Grube, John Strange,
Tho. Weyborne, James Jemson, doth bind themselves and their
successors to pay six pence an accre per yeare for their land at
Spectacle Hand for ever to the use of the schole, that so it may be
proprietye to them for ever, and they are to bringe in their pay to
the townes treasurer the first  of February forever, or else there
land is forfiet into the towne's dispossinge.
John Jackson, Garaalliel Waight, James Hudson, Wm. Kerby,
Tho. Bell,  Robt. Linchorne, Anthony Marker, Abell Porter, Tho.
Spalle,  Tho.  Munte, Water Senot, Wm. Coope, Rich. HoUige,
Nicholas Baxster, Wm. Lane, Edward Browne, Beniamin Nigoose,
Beniamin Warde, Frauncis East, Henirye AlUn, Ed.  Rainsford,
Tho. Venner, John Odlin, Wm. Ludkin, George Griggs, James
Davis, Richard Richardson, Robt. Blote, Mathew Jones, Mawdit
Ingles,   Rich.   Find,  Jonathan  Balston,   Tho.   Stanberrye,
Christopher Parrise, John Viall, Mathew Chaffey, Micaell Wills,
doth bind themselves, and there successors to pay sixe pence an
accre for theire land at Long Hand bye the yeare for ever :    and
that to be for the use of the scole, that so it maye be proprietye to
them for ever, and the}' are to bringe in there pay to the townes
treasurer the first of februarye for ever, or else there land is forfeit
unto the townes disposinge.
M''.  Bowin and Petter Oliver is  chosen for  perambulation at
Mudye River.
Allexsander Becke is chosen to keep the Cowes this year, and is
to rec :     2s. per head.
Capt. Wm. Tinge shall have the refusall of the purchase of the
 - 119 - 
96              City Document No. 46.
swampe that  13'es  between M"'.  John Wilsons, of  Boston, and
himseU'o.
There is  granted unto Ensigne Ilntcliison, Beni. Gillam, Beni.
Ward, Jonathan  lialston,  John Compton, Tlio.  Sn\yth, Steven
Butler, Riehard Riehison, leave to make a Hyghway from there
howses over the marish to the Bridge and over M''. Hills Ground,
upon there owne charge, they beinge allowed to be free from all
charges of Ilyghwayes till  the somm of SI.  IGs. be run out which
they have disbursed.
There is ordered and layd out a hyghway of 12 foot betweene
Capt. Ilardings howse and Wni. Davis howse alonge strait to the
Bridge, which the towne and M"". Hill set up betwene them, upon
Consideration that the hyghway at the seaside is demolished oulye
a way bye the howse of Wm. Hudson, senior,  reserved for cart
and horse below it for the acomodation of the sayd land.
[86.] The 26: 4th mo., 1G49.
At a meeting this  daye Wm. Colborne, Jacob Eliot, Anthony
Stoddard, Jerimy Howclain, Tho. Marshall, James Evirill, James
Penn :    there was a ratt  made of 33^ Is. Od. for the Hyghways to
be gathered by the surveyors for this yeare and to be expended
on the Hygh wayes.
Rich. Taylor is to ringe the bell  at 9 of the  cloke at night and
half an houre after foure  in  the morninge and is to have for his
recompence 41. a yeare, begininge his year the 24 :     4th mo., 1619.
It is ordered and agreed betwene the Select men of the towne of
Boston on the on part and Martin Saunders, Samuell Basse and
Mathew Barnes for and in behalfe of the Towne of Braintrye on
the other part, that whereas Boston hath sertaiue lands Hinge be-
tweene the Bounds of Dorchester and the Bounds of "Waymouth
as by the Grant of the Court it  will  appeare :        It is  now agreed
bye and betwixt the partyes afore sayd in  the  behalfe  of  the
Towne doe grant that all  such Lands of theirs  within the pre-
cincts aforesayd (being comouly called  and knowne by the name
of Mount AYolliston)  shalbe accounted* within the  Towneship of
Braintrye and lyable to beare all  Common charges in  that Towne
when they are  layd out  and improved.  'Jlie  towne of Boston
still retaininge the right and power of allottinge and disi)osinge of
all those lantls to particular persons that are ^-et  unlotted out ;     the
Towne of Braintrye paying therefore The sume of lifty pounds in
maner followinge.   Unto the  towne of Boston  viz.  ten  pounds
the 10th of January next ensuinge the Date hereof, and ten pounds
each first mo. ensuinge (the next first mo. only excepted) for foure
3'eares  successively untill  the  wliole  be payd ;    all  the sayd pay-
ments to be made in  merchantable Corne as wheat. Rye, Pease
and Indian at fifty shillings in  each of them which sayd some of
fifty pounds beinge payd, the Inhabitants of the Towne of lirain-
trve are not only to inioye for a common the loOO acres  formerly
layd out for a C^omon, but  alsoe  the abovesayd liberty and power
wnth all their Inhabitants, as other townes, to bring in all improved
lands  to beare  Counnon charges with  them :       provided that M''.
John Wilson, pastor of the church of Boston shall  not be ratted
 - 120 - 
Boston Town Records, 1649.             97
unto Braintrye for  his  farme at  Braintrye, only that his tenant
shalho still liable as heretofoi'c.   FinalI3',  it is agreed and i)roiiiisi'd
by the  sayd  three  men, JNIartin  Saunders,  Sanniell  Basse, and
]\j[athew Barnes, lor and in the behalfe of the townc of Braintrye to
make good the aforesayd payment at the meetiuge howse of Boston,
to the seleet men thereof, which shall  be successively chossen the
severall years.   In witnes where of the select men of the Towne
of Boston for the time beinge on the on part, and Martin Saunders,
Samuell Basse, and Mathew Barnes on the other part, in the be-
halfe of the Towne of Bi-aintry, have set to their hands Interchang-
ably, this 20th of the 8th mo., 1G47.
John Loo, Josua Scotto, Wm. Ilanbery, Isaac Waker, Edmond
Jackson, John Shaw, Joseph Wormwall, Leanord Buttolfe are in-
debted to the Towne of Boston, and tlunr successors for ever for
the schols use for their land in Bendalls Cove, as their evidences
will show it forth, which some that is to be payd yearly is M. 'ds.  2d.
Beniamin Ward is to pay unto the Towne of Boston and his suc-
cessors for ever, 31. per annum for a parcill of land by his howse,
as the evidence therof doth make plaine, to be for the schols use.
Edward Bendall hath Deare Hand for twenty yeares and he and
his  to pay 14L per annum and his  successors, to the Towne of
Boston for the schools use as l)ye evidence will appeare.
At a Generall Townes meetiuge, the 12 :    1 mo., 1049, bye gen-
erall Consent it was refferred unto the select men of the Towne to
transact the agreement betwene those that have interest in the Cove
and the Towne for their rent which they are to paye to the schols
use for ever, that is to say for the sayle of the revci'sion of the Cove
called Bendall's Docke.
[87.]  The 27: 6: mo., 1049.
At a meeting this  day of  M^ Wm. Colbrone,  Jacob Eliot,
Anthony Stoddard, Jeremy Ilowchin, James Evirill,  Tho :     Mar-
shall, James Penn.
It  is  ordered that Anthony Stoddard shall have libertye to sell
his 100 acres of land to Moses Payne, of Braintre, and that he
shall have liberty to take it  next unto that hee hath hired of the
Towne, or else where, if  he see Cause.
Robert Nash is lined 19.s. Gri. for his leavinge his slaughter howse
with noyesome smells, to the offence of the Towne.
M^ Sowther is admited a townesman to Inhabit with them.
Tho. Painter hath liberty to erect amilne at Fox hill, bypublicke
consent of the Towne in generall, and that he is  bound to finish
the milne in too years, and at the first pecke of Corne it grinds hee
is to begin his rent of 40s. per annum forever to the publike use
of the Towne.
James Pilbeam is admited an Inhal)itant of the Towne.
Wm. Francklin is fined 20.s. for setinge up his howse and Com-
inge out on the Towne's ground, and not callinge the select men of
the Towne to vcw it acording to towne order, and is  further fined
20.S.  every ten days till the abuse l)e reformed.
Vallintine Hill shall make up his ground at the bridge within 14
dayes, or else he is fined 20s., and on the neglect hereof hee is fined
20s. every ten daj's till it be amended.
 - 121 - 
98               City Document No. 46.
George Halsoll is fined 20s. for not making up his hygbway afor
his shop soficiently, and hath hbert}' for the linishing of it  till  the
next 8 mo., '50.
Daniell Tarant* shall erect his wharfe for the hygh way before
his howse sufficiently by the 3 of the 11th mo., upon penalty of
20s. fine.
It is ordered that M''. Clarke, mariner, is to cleare the High way
at his cellar, and secure it that noe harme be done bye it,  and that
within 6 dayes, upon penalty of 20s. fine.
It is ordered that Wm. Beanisly shall  remove away his oyster
shells from of the Towne's hye wa}' before his dore by "the 1 of the
11th mo., on the penalty of 20s. fine.
It is ordered that John Baker shall remove the howse that stands
on the Towne's Highway by the 1 of 11th mo. on penalty of 20s.
fine.
The 31st, 9th mo., 1G49.
At a meeting of M^ Wm. Colbrone,  Jacob Eliot,  Anthony
Stoddard, Jerim}' Howchin, James Evirill, Tho. Marshall, James
Penn.
John Milam is  fined 20s. for the defect of his way before the
milne, and also 20s. for the defect of the Bridge by John Butman's ;
if they be not mended within 4 dayes, he is fined 20s. evr}^ 10 days
for evry offence.
Edmond Jackson is fined 20s. for his defect of his way by his
cellar betweene James Evirill and himselfe, if it be not mended by
the 5th, 11th mo.
It is ordered that noe person whatsoever shall suffer an}' stones,
cla}', timber or firewood, boords or clapboords, or any other thinge
that maye anoye the towne's streets to lye above 48 howres,. upon
penalty of five shillings for evry default.
Edward Belcher is  chossen watter Bayley to se that noe stones
nor timber doe l^'e on the fiats or shoor to the  Damage of boats
or vessalls,  as alsoe to see to the clearinge of the streets of such
things as doth anoye the streets, and for his  satisfaction he shall
have half of eviry fine, and the other half to be for publiq use.
It is  ordered that the owners of the wind millne successively
shall secure the milne from doing any damage to any Cattell or
swine, upon penalty of making satisfaction sofflciently.
Wm. Franklin is  fined 20s. for disablinge the passage way over
the Creeke by John Butman's howse.
Acordinge to order of the Towne in Generall, whoe gave power to
the select men of the towne, to sell  the Reversion of the Dock or
Cove Called by the name of Bendall Docke, together with the flats
thereto belonginge, which uppon the 31 :    9 mo., 49.   The Select
men of the Towne have sold the Reverssion to James Evirill, ever
painge to the School's use sixe pounds sixteene shillings ten pence
p. Anum for ever, as may more fully appeare in the Deed of sayle
in the Towne's keepinge, under the hands of the Recorder [tora
off] time being.
*Called Turrell in Index ;  the name is often spelt Turand and Turing.
 - 122 - 
Boston Town Records, 1649-50.          99
[88.]  It is  ordered that all  the land at the head of the Cove
round aboute by John Glover's, George Burden's, Hugh Gunison's,
C'apt.  Wm. Tinge's, Wm. Franklin's, Kobert Nashe's, and eight
foot to the eastward of it, is highway, and not to be aeounted within
the purchase of James Evirill of his purchase of the Towne :     As
alsoe from the Eastward sid of the eight foot, and round about b^-e
the Corner of Edward Bendall's Bricke howse, and soe b}^ Samuell
Col's howse, as alsoe to Edward Ting's wharfe, shall goe a High
way of twentye foote in breadth.
The 26: 12th mo., 1649.
At a meetinge of M^ Wm. Colbron, Anthony Stoddard, Jacob
Eliot, Jeremy Howchin, James Evirill,  Thomas Marshall. James
Penn.
John Milam is  fined 20s. for not raakinge a Cart bridge at John
Buteman's howse ;   and if hee goeth not aboute it within sixe dayes
hee is fined 20s. every sixe dayes till it be finished.
The 11th: 1 :    mo., 1650.
Alt a generall townes meetinge upon publicke notice were chosen
for Deputy's for the General Court this ensuinge 3'eare, M^ Anthony
Stoddard, James Penn ;     and for Selectmen for the Townes affaires
M^ Wm. Colbrone, Anthony Stoddard, Jacob Eliot, Jerimie How-
chin,  Tho. Marshall, M''.  Tlio. Clarke, James Penn ;     for Clarkes
of the Market, Jerimie Howchin, James Penn ;     for Constables,
Robert Button, Edmund Jackson, John Phillips, Christopher Gib-
son ;    for Surveighours for the High ways, George HalsoU, Wm.
Cotton ;     for leather sealers, Nathaniell Bishop,. Wm. Couresser.
It is  alsoe agreed on that M''. Woodmansey, the Schoolmaster,
shall have fift3'e pounds per annum for his teachinge the schollers,
and his proportion to be made up by ratte.
It is  alsoe agreed that Petter Oliver shall have 15Z. per annum,
for 7 years, to maintaiue the High wayes from Jacob Eliots Barne
to the fardest gate bye Roxsbery Towns end, to be sofficient for
Carte and horse, to the satisfaction of the Countrye.
It is alsoe agreed on that theire shall be a carte Bridge bye John
Milame set up by John Butemans howse acordinge to Contract.
M^ Adam Winthorp,  Wm. Phillips,  Wm. Beamesley were
chossen to ioyne with the Selectmen of the Towne, to lay out the
high wayes bye the new meetinge howse.
It is  alsoe agreed on that all the land at Braintree undespossed
of, besides the 2,000 acers that was set apart for the schools use,
is not from this time forward to be alotted to any particular per-
sons, but to be improved for the publike service of the Towne of
Boston.
It is agreed on that a ratte shalbe made for the fortification that
is to be sect aboute bye those that are apointed for it.
The 18th 1st mo., 1650 or 49.
At a meting this  day of M"". WilUani Coleborne, Jacob Eliott,
Tho. Clarke, James Penn, Jerimy Houchin, Tho. Marshall, and
Anthony Stoddard.
 - 123 - 
100            City Document No. 46.
James Penn was chosen Tresurer for  the  Twone this  yeare.
Anthony Stoddard was chosen Recorder for the Towne this yeare.
Thoroas Bell and David Ilickborne were chosen to execute the
order aboute Swinne this yeare.   Sergaint Scoott had notice given
him that  Capt. Harding Pale before  his house  be Taken away
within one moneth ensuinge, upon Penalltye of twenty shillings.
25th, 1st mo., 1650.
At a meting this day of M"^. William Coloborne, Jacob Eliatt,
Tho. Clarke, James Penn, Jerimy Houchin, Tho. Marshall, and
Anthony Stoddard.
Tho. Painter hath Libert3'e to sell his Dwelling house to Ephai-im
Hunt.
Tho. Munt hath Libertj-e To Mow the March at Bird Hand this
yeare.
M"". Jerimy Houchin is  chosen Sealer of the weights and Meas-
ures this yeare Till another be Chosen.
[89.]  Brother Beck is assigned to receave of the Constables
that were last yeare, five pounds foure shillings for the keping of
Tho. Kand as full satisfaction.
This 12th 2d mo., 1650.
At a meting this day of M"".  Tho. Clarke, James Penn, Jerimy
Houchin,  Tho.  Marshall,  and  Anthon}^  Stoddard,  Selectmen,
M"".  Adam Winthrop, William PhilUps,  and  William  Beamsley
apointed to Lay out High wayes at the North end of the Twone.
It was ordered that there should be a way of a Rod broud by the
water side from the Batterry to Charles Towne ferry.
It was ordered that a Highway of two Rod in  breath should be
preserved by Will. Phillips in the Feild that was M"". Stanleys, and
soe to the Ferry point at Charles towne, Leding unto the Crose
way that Leads from the Water Mills  unto the water side betwene
Good Duglas and Water Merr^'cs garden, acording as it is marked
and stakt out this day, and untill Buildings be there erected, Gaites
and stiles may suffice.
It was ordered that the way formerl}^ granited of a Rod in breath
b}' the water side  from Gallops point to the Battery (l)eing inter-
rupted b}-  Mrs. Hawkins, her house) it  shall turne up from the
water side through M'^^ Hawkins her garden and soe by M''. Win-
throps  house,  betwene Major  Bornes  house  and  his  Garden,
before M^ Hohoks, to the Battery.
This 22d of 2d mo., 1650.
At a Meting of the Fremen by particular Warning to Chouse a
Deputie for the Generall Court in the Steed of James Penn who
was Chosen by the Church for other  service,  Thomas Marshall
was Chosen Deputie for the Generall Com-t.
The 29th of 2 mo., 1650.
At a meting this Day of M^ William Coleborne, Jacob Eliatt,
James Penn, Thomas Clarke, Jerimy Houchin, Thomas Marshall,
and Anthony Stoddard.
 - 124 - 
Boston Town Records, 1G50.           101
It was ordered that M^ Elias  Maverick and James Johnson,
wlio were cboson  by George  Burden ;       Deacon Eliatt,  and M''.
Thomas Clarke who were chosen by the Townsemeu in tlie  pres-
ence of M"'. Newgate and with Consent of him :     should Lay out a
Cart and a Horse way at Rumley Marsh from M"" Hohocks Farme
towards the Mill.
The 24th of 4th mo., 1650.
At a meting this Day of M'' WiUiam Coleborne, Jacob Eliatt,
Thomas Clarke, Jerimy Houchiu, Thomas Marshall, and Anthony
Stoddard.
It  is  ordered  that whereas  there  was  600 Akers of  Land
grainted to M^ Thomas Foule, which Land is  accepted at Rum-
ley March by Samuell Bennett of Line, be it  more or lesse as is
expressed in a deed to him made by Captaine Leveritt and M^
Hill :     The Towne is freed from the said Granit, or otherwise the
said Land is to returne to the Towne againe.
The 29th of 5th mo., 1650.
At a meting tliis Day of M''. William Coleborne, Jacob Eliatt,
Mr. Tho. Clarke,  Jerimy Houchiu, Tho. Marshall, and Anthony
Stoddard.
[90.]  It was ordered  that  M"".   Colborne and Jacob Ehatt
should be desired to Veiw the Swampe betwene our Pastor's ground
at Brantree and Captaine Ting, and to Strike the Line betwene
them andalso that part betwene the Captaine and Edmund Quinsye,
and to make report of the quantity thereof to the Townesmen.
And there report was that our Pastor his part of the Swamp was
about 80 Akers, and Capt. Ting 14 Akers, besides 6 or 8 Akers
betwene him and Edmund Quinsye ;    the Bounds betwixt both is
the naturall Passage of the water in a small Running.  The which
parsells of the Swamp were granted  to them by the Towne in
generall.
10th of first mo., 1650.
Mr. Vener and the Neighbours there about had libertie to dig a
Well and Set a Pumpe therein, nere the Shop of William Davis,
providing without anoyance to the street  passage for the Wast
Water.
The 30th of 7th mo., 1650.
At a  meting of  M''.  WiUiam Coleborne, Jacob Eliatt,  James
Penn, M''.  Tho. Clarke,  Jerimy Houchin, Tho.  Marshall,  and
Anthony Stoddard.
Daniell Lovett had lett unto him 60 Akers of Land at Brantree
Lying at the end of M'. Hough Frame and one the side of Capt.
Keynes, Junior, for 10s. a yeare, the which Land he or his assignes
shall inioy for ever, paying the aforesaid Rent to the Tresurcr of
Boston in Marchantable Corne.  The first payment to be made the
first of the 2d mo., 1651.
M^ Glover and Brother Burden hath let  unto them the ground
before there proprietyes, soe Fare as from the Corner of M^ Webs
 - 125 - 
102              City Document No. 46.
house to the Corner of Goodman Hiu'ds Shop upon a streight Line,
for which they are to pay 30s.  a yeare for ever, M'. Glover 10s.
Brother Burden 20s.
The 9th mo., 1G50.
At a Generall towne meting upon warning, it was agreed that
the Bells Capt. Crumwell gave the Towne should be by the Select
men disposed of to the Best Advantage, and the produce Laid out
for one Bell for a Clocke.
The 30th of 10th mo., 1650.
At a meting of M'. William Coleborne, Jacob Eliatt, Mr. Tho.
Clarke, James Penn, Tho. Marshall, Jerimy Houchin, and An-
tnouy Stoddard.
M^ Moses Payne of  Brantree hath  let to him 500 Akers of
Land at Brantree and is  to ioyne this  500 Akers with the former
500 Akers let to him, Taking in all the Land betwixt the two greatt
blew Hills  and  the next  Hill to them, and what there is  of it
above 1000 Akers, he is  to pa}" proportionably after the Raite of
40s. a yeare for 500 Akers, for ever, and to make payment as for
the  first  500  Akers,  beginning his  Rent for  this  the  first  of
the first mo,, next; and this Land to be Bound for the Rent for
ever.
Brother Fletcher hath libertie to make a s.eller  doore two Foott
and a halfe Rysiug from his house.
[90.*]  24th 12th mo., 1650.
At a meting of Elder Eliatt, Elder Penn, M'. Tho. Clarke, Tho.
Marshall, Jerimy Houehin, and Anthony Stoddard.
Brother Salter had Libertie gri),nted to sett up a Fish house upon
a peece of Sunken March b3''the Crike side before Elder Colborue's
Feild gate, to be set out by Elder Colborne and Elder Eliatt.
The first of first mo., 1651 or 1650.
At a  meting of  Elder Eliatt,  Elder  Penn, M^ Tho. Clarke,
Tho. Marshall, Jerimy Houchin, and Anthony Stoddard.
Mr. John  Maverick  hath  Libertie to Wharfe befoi'e his pro-
prietie,  provided he doe it  in  Convenient Tyme.
The like  Libertie is  Granted to Henry Duglas.
The like  Libertie is  granted to Alexander Adams.
The like  Libertie is  granted to Richard Thurstone.
The like Libertie is  granted to John Clarke.
Mr. Astwood hath Libertie granted to wharffe before his prop-
rietye  to  Low Water  Marke.   Wm. Beamsle}'  hath  Libertie
granted to wharfe or  peare  before  his  proprietie to low water
marke, provided he goe no Broader there then his ground is at hie
water Marke ;    M^ Richard Leader hath libertie granted to wharfe
or peare  before his proprietie to low water Marke, provided he
goe no Broader there then his ground is at hie Water Marke.
* The clerk adds, " the foi-egoeing pag: also is 90."
 - 126 - 
Boston Town Records, 1651.            103
The lOtb of first mo., 1651.
At a Geneiall towne meeting upon publike notice were Chosen
for Deputyes for the Geuerall Coiut, Capt. John Leveritt and M^
Thomas Clarke.
For Select  men, M^ Richard  Parker,  Capt.  Leveritt,  M^
Thomas Clarke, M"".  Edward Ting, jNT.  Houchin, Deacon
Marshall, and Anthony Stoddard.
For Counstables, M^ Hezekia Usher, Edward Fletcher, Georg
Davis, John Sinderland, and Henry Eavons for Rumley March.
For Clarks of the IMarket, M^ Davis and Peter Oliver.
For Surva3'ors of the Hye wayes, Wm. Cotten  and George
Hailshall.
For Sealers of Leather, Wm. Courser and Robert Read.
For a Committe to Draw up the power to be given to the Select
men, which is  first  to be presented to the Towne and Consented
too if  they se Cause, M''.  Ilibbins,  Capt.  Kayne, M"".  Duncan,
Leif. Savage, and M"". Adam Winthrop.
Also it  was Declared  by the  inhabitans  that the spare High
wayes at the ends of both the Bridges over the Mill Streame is the
Towne's proprietie, and Libertie was granited to the NeighborJiod
to Wharfe the same for Publike Landing of Goods.
The 11th of first mo: 1651.
At a meting of M^ Richard Parker, Capt  Leveritt, Mr. Tho.
Clarke, Mr. Edward Ting, Mr. Houchin, Deacon Marshall, An-
thony Stoddard, with the Counstables.
M^ Jerimy Houchin was Chosen Sealer of Weights and Meas-
m-es.   M"". Edward Tinge was Chosen the Towne Tresurer.
Anthony Stoddard was Chosen the Towne Recorder.
The 241h of first mo., 1651.
At a Geuerall towne meting it was agreed upon that noe inhabi-
tant shall Lett any house, Housing or Laud within the Neck of
Boston to any Forrincr without the Consent of the Select men. or
the Maior part of them ;   and all Orders formerly maid for not selling
proprietyes without the Select men's Consent is hereby repealed.
The last of first mo., 1651.
At a meting of M"".  Richard Parker, Capt. Leveritt, M^ Tho.
Clarke, M''.  Edward Ting, M"'. Jerimy Houchin, Deacon Marshall,
and Anthony Stoddard.
It was ordered that Goodman Leader, senior, shall  sufficiently
Yoake and Ring all  the Swine of this  Towne, and the  owners
thereof to pay him for it ;    and in Case any shall refuse soe to doe.
There  Swinne being sene  abroad  not  suffitiently  Yoaked and
Ringed, the owners thereof shall pay to the Tresurer of the Towne
for the Towne use, 10s. for ever}' default ;    and this order to begin
to be in force the 10th day of the 2th mo., 1651, and Continue all
the 3-eare after.
It was ordered that whereas there hath bin for divers Yoares a
High way by the ground that is  now Richard Fairebanks, and soe
along the feild to Bro. Deming's house ;     And neyther the AYay nor
 - 127 - 
104             City Document No. 46.
the Breath of the Way Recorded in the Towne Booke, it  now
apeariug by severall Testimonies  upon Oath, that  the  wa^' was
Graunted by former Selectmen of the  towne to  be 12  Foott hi
Breath, it  is  Ordered for the Tyme to come it shall be soe Ac-
ounted ;     and where it  is  Stratened by the fense of Richard Fare-
bainks, the said fense shall be removed Fourthwith.
Henry Rust is Admitted an Inhabitant.
The 28th of 2th mo., 1651.
At a meting of M''. Richard Parker, Capt. Leveritt,  M^ Tho.
Clarke, M^ Jerimj' Houchiu, ]\P. Edward Tmge, Deacon Marshall,
and Anthony vStoddard.
Thomas Alcoke is apointed to be Cow keper this yeare ;     and he
is to have two shillings a head from the owners thereof. The Tyme
of his keping is to begin The first of the 3th mo., and to Continue
till the 10th of 8th mounth.
[92.]  The 26th of 3th mo., 1651.
At a meting of Mr. Richard Parker, Capt. Leveritt, M''.  Tho.
Clarke, Mr. Jerimy Houchin, M''. Edward Tinge, Deacon Marshall,
and Anthony Stoddard.
John Button is  Fined twent3-e shillings for Letting a Forriner
have a shop and entertainment in his house without the Consent of
the Selectmen, and to have notice to discharge him fourth with out
of his house, upon the same penaltye.
The 20th of 4th mo., 1651.
At a meting of M^ Richard Parker, Capt. Leveritt, M'. Jerimy
Houchin, Mr. Edward Ting, and Deacon Marshall.
It was agreed that if Francis Smith doe not remove his house
out of the high way by the 23th of this instant, then he is  fyned
twentie shillings, for the Towne's use, and tenn shillings a day for
every da}^ it stands in the high way after the 23th of this instant.
Whereas Wilham Frainklin hath diged in the Towne's highway
at the north end of the Bridg, nere to the house of Humphery
Milam, It is ordered that if the said William Frainklin doe not fill
up the ground againe which he hath diged, and make good the said
high way within tenn da3'es next ensuing that then he is  to pay
twentie shiUings.
The 30th of 4th mo., 1651.
At a meting of M"'. Richard Parker, Capt. Leveritt, Mr. Jerimy
Houchin, Mr. Edward Ting,  Deacon  Marshall,  and Anthony
Stoddard.
It is ordered (To prevent Damage of Boats and other vessells)
That noe stones nor Tymber shall Lye upon the Flats above fortye
eight houres, upon penaltie of the forfeture thereof.   And James
Jimson is  Chosen to sec to  the execution of this order, and to
have the one haulfe for his paynes, and to be for the other account-
able to the Towne Tresurer.
Wilham Pollard and Richard Bennett are Chosen to see that noe
stones, Tymber, nor anyother Thing Lye in the Streets, acording To
an order made the 31st of 9 mo., 1649, and to have the one haulfe
 - 128 - 
Boston Town Records, 1651.           105
of the F3-nes for themscles,  and the other haulfe to pay to the
Towne Tresurer ;     Richard Bennett to Looke to the North end of
the Towne, and WilUam Pollard the South end ;     The Mill Crecke
to be the Devision.
The Bridge, by John Bateman,* his house, is  accepted as suffi-
cient for a Cart Bridge.
The Pale before Capt. Harding's house is  to be set in 1 G inches
next William Davis, and 10 inches next M"".  Brenton's, as thej^
both are Notch, and this to be done within a mounth, uponpenalltye
of twentie shillings.
[93.]  VViUiam Blancher is to secure his seller From Damag by
the first day of the next mo., upon penalltie of 20s.
Deacon Marshall hath Granitcd inito him that peece of ground,
as now fenced in,  adio^'ning to Bro. Mils to the .Southwest, and
Bro. Hull and bro. Matson to the Southeast, to the highway to the
Northeast, and the March by the Mill pound to the North and
North west, granited formerly to Edward Dennis, in  Lew of a
garden Plott formerly granted the  said Edward Dennis towards
the new Winde Mill.
The 5th of 5th mo., 1G51.
At a meting of M^ Richard Parker, Capt. Leveritt, M^ Edward
Ting, M^ Jerim}^ Houchin, Deacon Marshall, and Anthony Stod-
dard.
William Frainklin was ordered to fill  up the place he had diged
on the Towne's highway at the  North end of the  Bridge, nere
Humphery Milam's by the 11th day of this instant mounth, upon
penaltie of twentie shiUings if he doe it not by that t3'me.
The 8th of 5th mo., 1G51.
At a meting of M"". Richard Parker, Capt. Leveritt, M^ Edward
Tinge and Anthony Stoddard.
James Everell was ordered to secure the seller he hath diged
where the ould Meeting house was, and to clere the highwa}' about
it  by the 11th day of this instant mo., upon penaltie of twentie
shillings if he doe it not.
The 28th of 5th mo., 1651.
At a meting of M". Richard Parker, Capt. Leveritt, M'. Tho.
Clarke, Je. Houchin, M^ Edward Tinge, Deacon Marshall, and
Anthony Stoddard.
WilUam Baker, Carpenter, is admitted an Inhabitant.
John Chamberlain, Currior, is admitted an Inhabitant.
William Talbott, Sailmaker, is admitted an Inhabitant.
The three  hundred Akers of  Land  at  Brantree,  formerlye
granited to the  owners of the Water Mill  at  Boston. There is
libertie  granited to them to Lay it  out at Brantree, next adioyn-
ing to the outward bounds of Land already Laid out. Laying it
out together.
*This name is elsewhere quite plainly Butman.
 - 129 - 
106             City Document No. 46.
The 11th of the 6th mo., 1651.
At a Generall towne meting upon particular notice, Capt. "Wil-
liam Tinge, was Chosen Commissioner to ioyne with the Selectmen
to make the Countr}- Rate.
Also it  was Ordered that the Selectmen shall take Care from
t3'me to  t^-me for the prevention of Danger of fyer by defective
Chimneys, and upon Complaints to veiw them, and to order there
repayre upon penalltye if not repared.
The 4th of 7th mo., 1651.
At a meting of M^ Richard Parker, Capt. Leveritt, M^ Tho.
Clarke,  M"".  Jerim}'  Houchiu,  Decon  Marshall,  and  Anthony
Stoddard.
[94.]  Edward Bendall and James Everell was ordered to re-
move the posts and Railes from the side of the Creeke nere Brother
Burden's before to Morrownight upon penalltie of twentie shillings.
6th of 9th mo., 1651.
At a meting of M"". Richard Parker, Capt. Leveritt, M"". Edward
Tinge, and Anthony Stoddard.
Martin Stebins was fined twentie shillings if  his  Chimneys be
not secured from Danger of fyer within tenn Da^^es.
The 29th 7th mo., 1651.
At a meting this Day of the Select men.
Hope Allen, a Currier, is admitted an inhabitant.
The 27th 8th mo., 1651.
At a meting this Day of the Select men.
M"'. Nicholas Parker hath Libertie to Wharfe before his Proprie-
tie by Charles Towne Ferry.
The 24th, 9th mo., 1651.
At a meting this  Day of Capt. Leveritt, M'. Edward Ting, M^
ThomasClarke, M^Jerim}^ Houchin, DeaconMarshall, and Anthony
Stoddard.
John Web, Brasier, was Admitted to Inhabitt in the Towne six
Months, and if he behave himselfe well, for Lounger Tyme.
Samnell Norden is  Fined six shillings,  eight pence, for enter-
taining a Forriner ignorantly, and to disharge them of his house.
William Pearce is  Fyned six shillings,  eight pence, for enter-
taineing M''. Joyslin,  Contrarj- to order, and to discharge him of
his house.
M^ Davis, Peter Oliver, andEdward Devotian, and Heni-y Stevens
are  Chosen to goe the Bounds of the Towne betwixt Cambridge,
Brantree, Dedham, and that Way.
Capt. Ka3-ne, M"". Cogin, Leiftennant Walker, and John Tuthill
are Chosen to goe the Bounds of the Towne betwixt Line, Charles
Towne, and that Way.
It  i?  Ordered that  if  any Chimne}' be on fyer soe as to flame
out of the Top thereof, the Partie in whose possession the Chim-
ney is  shall pay to the Tresurer of the Towne for the Towne use,
tenn shillings.
 - 130 - 
Boston Toavts^  Records, 1651-2.          107
At a generall towne meting this Day, M'. James Oliver, John
Web, and AV"alter ]Merry were Chosen to Execute the Order about
the Clering the Flats.
The 5th of 11th mo., 1G51.   At a meting this Day of M^ Rich-
ard Parker, Capt. Leveritt, M'. Edward Ting, M\ Thomas Clarke,
M"". Jerimy Houchin, Deacon Marshall, and Anthony Stoddaid.
[95.]  There being Complaint made by William Deming and
Mauditt English that they were hindreed of there passage to there
Gardens, Liing against the ground the Winde Mill stands upon as
it  is  now Fenced in, uppon hearing of Wittncsses and Considera-
tion that for many Yeares Past the Owners of the IMill have inioyed
the Land Fenced in b}^ the Mill, and the said William and Maudit
have peaceablely inioyed there passage, it is Determined they shall
have the same Continued ;     The Owners of the Mill, the propriet3'e
of the Land and the other, there Libertie of Passage with horse or
Cart.
The Tresurer was ordered to pay to M^ Houchin twentie five
shillings backe of the fiftie M^ Usher receaved of Mrs. Sands for
her Rayte.
At a meting of M''.  Richard Parker, M"".  Edward Tinge, M''.
Jerimy Houchin, Deacon Marshall, and Anthony Stoddard.
Thomas Noble was Admitted an Inhabitant.
26, llmo., 1G51.   At a meting this Day of M'. Richard Parker,
Capt. Leveritt, M''. Edw^ard Tinge, M"". Thomas Clarke, M"". Jerimy
Houchin, Deacon Marshall, and Anthony Stoddard.
Wm. Whitwell upon his  Petition had Libertie  to Continue his
keping of an Ordinary till  the seaventh mounth next if  the Court
please.   Martin Stebins hath Like Libertye.
Richard Wooddyis Admitted an Inhabitant upon his promise not
to be offensive by his Trayd to the Towne and therein to be regu-
lated by the Select men if  Complaint be made thereof.
Christopher Perkus is to pay Brother Ludkin from this Day for
his Child keping, and promised to bind his house to the Towne
for securitie that it shall be noe farther Chargable to the Towne.
23th, 12th mo., 1651.
At a meting this  Day of M^ Richard Parker, Capt. Leveritt,
M".  Edward Tinge,  M"^.  Thomas Clarke,  M^ Jerimy Houchin,
Deacon Marshall, and Anthony Stoddard.
Jarratt Borne Complaining that Raphe Roott makes use of his
Marsh at Muddy R^'ver which was formerly Granted to  Jacob
Eliatt as apeares by the Record the 1st of 5th mo., 1637, for the
desiding the  Bounds thererof Deacon Marshall, Ensigne Oliver,
and Peter Oliver, are Chosen to Veiw the Ground and to make
returne of theire Issue.
[96.]  23d,  12th mo.,  1651.   Josua  Scotto  hath  Libertie
to wharffe before his proprietie by the North east end of the MUl
Bridge.
 - 131 - 
108             City Document No. 46.
William Beamsley and Jarratt Borne are Chosen to see the Gen-
erall Fence at Muddy Ryver to  be put into repaji-e acording to
order.
Goodwife Howen hath  Chosen Elder Coleborne  to price  and
accept of a Cow from the Towne.
John Vj-all hath Libertie to keep a house of Comon entertaine-
ment if  the Countie Court Consent, provided he keepe it nere the
New Meting house or Northward of it.
James Davis hath Libertie to keepe a house of Cofnon enter-
tainement, if the Countie Court consent.
John Audlin brought a Certificate of the Bounds of nine Akers
of Marsh he bought of the Towne the 27th of 2th mo, 1640.,
as follows :    one parsell one Aker, more or lesse, Bounding on the
East on Muddy R3'ver ;     on the South uponthe ould Landing place ;
on the West on the Alottment of Beniamen Ward, John Craine,
and Robt. Houltou ;    on the North the Marsh of Elder Oliver.   The
other parsell being eight Akers, more or less, in the greatt Marsh,
on the East the alotmeut of M^ Hibbins ;     on the south on Muddy
Ryver ;    on the West on the Marsh Lot of Elder Ohver ;     on the
North upon the Marsh of M^ Cotteu.
8th of the 1st moneth, 1651.
At a Generall towne meting upon publike notice were Chosen
for  Deputyes for  the  Generall  Court  Capt.  Leveritt  and M'^.
Thomas Clarke.
For Selectmen, M^ Adam Winthrop, Capt. Savage, M^ Thos.
Clarke, M''. Jerimy Houchin, Deacon Marshall, Ensigne Hutchin-
son, and Mr. William Brenton.
For Counstables, for the towne, M^ Jacob Sheaffe, M"". James
Astwood, Samuell Bitfeid, and Wm. Ludkin ;    for Rumley Marsh,
John Tuthill ;     for Mudd}- Ryver, John Kenerick.
For  Clarks of  the  Market,  Thomas Clarke  and  Nathaniel
Williams.
For Surveyors of Highwayes in the Towne, John Loe, Robt.
Nash, and Bartlemy Barnard.  Thomas Stocker for Rumley Marsh,
and Peter Aspinall for Muddy Ryver.
For Sealers of Leather, Wm. Courser and Robert Read.
It is Ordered that James Everell and the Neighbours which set up
the Cunditt by the Dock shall have on of the Bells (which were
given by Capt. Crutrell) for a Clocke and to enioy it whiles they
make that use of it There.
It was Ordered that the Select men shall  Graunt such Liberties
to  M^ Samuell  Ohver and his  partners  for  the  Setting  up a
Winde Mill as they shall in their wisedome think meett.
[97.]  16th of the 1st moneth, 51-52.
Att a meetting  of  M^ Addam Winthrop,  Ensigne Edward
Hutchinson, Lift.  Thomas Clarke, M^ Jerymy Howchin, Deakon
Marshall, M^ Willm. Brenton, and Thomas Savage.
Ensigne Hutchinson was Chosen Tresurer and Thomas Savage
Recordar for  the Towne of  Boston,  and Deakon Marshall was
chosen sealer of waites and measures.
 - 132 - 
Boston Town Records, 1652.           109
29th, 1st mo., 1652.   At a metting of M^ Addara Winthrope,
M''. Edward Hutchinsone, M^ Jei^my Howehin, M'. William lireu-
ton, M'. Thomas Marshall, and Thomas Savage.
It is Ordered that all Swiiie whatsoever which shall be fomid out
of the ground of theyr Owners within the bounds of the towne of
Boston without being sufitiently j^oaked and Ringed, after the sixt
day of the 2d mo. next,  the Owners of such Swine shall  forfit
for every such Swine ever}- time soe found, the sum of two shil-
lings and six penc.
It is Ordered that the formar Order made about None for to re-
ceive any into theyr house as inmaates or to let any house or any
parte of any house or ground Unto au}' forreuer without the apro-
bation of the Select men shall stand in force.
It is Ordered that noe house of Ofice, ether already set up, or to
be set up within this Towne, shall stand within twentie foot of any
hie way, or the house of any Neighbour, unless it be vaetecl G foot
deep, and mad up Close from the hie way and anoyance of to
any neighbour, one the penaltie of 20s. for every such defect ;    this
Order to be of force the forteenth day of the next mo.
It is Ordered that Thomas Alkok shall keep the Cowes which goe
one the Common one this neck of land, and to have two shillings
and six penc the head for every Cow that goes theare, and he to
pay for the wintering of the Town Bull.
Sarjt. Richard Cooke is  granted Libertie for to set a house one
the Towne's ground, which is  betwixt the towne's house in which
M"". Woodmans}' now liveth, and the town skoole house ;     and thear
is  lett  unto him, the said Richard Cooke, the said ground, which
he shall use for to set  the  aforesaid house one, and all  bakward
from the street unto the grownd of Henry Mesenger, runing behind
the skoole house downe along by the burying place, being sixtie
and seaven foot broad at the Uper end behind the skole house, and
sixtie  foot Broad at the  lower end next the grownd of  Henry
Mesenger,  the  said  Richard  Cooke paying  quarterly  into  the
tresurer for the towne the sum of seaven shillings and six penc,
iu merchtU good pay which sum maketh the sum of thirtie shillings
per annum to be paid for ever ;    and the house or houses whatsoever
is ereckted, or trees aired}' planted, or to be planted, one the said
grownd, is  to be securytie unto the.towne for the payment of the
said quarterly rent, and in defect the sellect men to have power to
enter one the said houses and grownd for the towne's use ;    alsoe if
the towne shall  see cause to  inlarg the skoolehouse at any time
hearafter, the town hath reserved libertie soe to doe.
[98.] 1652.   3d of 2 moneth.  At a metting of M^ Addara
Winthrop M^ Tho. Clarke M^ Edward Hutchinson M^ Will"'.
Brenton  M'.  Jer3'my  Howehin, Thomas Marshall  and Thomas
Savage.
Ensign James Oliver and Sarjt Fetter Oliver are gTanted libertie
for  to set  up a wind mile one the tope of the hile between the
towne and the  hile  Called  Fox hile, which said mile they ar to
fence in from harme and damag unto any Cattell, and to pay unto
the tresurer of the towne the Sum of twelve penc per 3'ear, to be
 - 133 - 
110             City Document No. 46.
payd 3'early one the forfit of five  shillings foi'  every quarter of a
year, which it  shall not l)e  paid into the Tresurer of the Town,
it  being demanded in  due season, the time to begin the first  day
that the said mile shall grind, and to Continue to be paid unto the
Towne soe longe as the  mile  shall  thc-ar  stand ;     alsoe the Cheef
Military Commander of  this towne, and alsoe  the  Cheef Com-
mander of this regiment hath power at any time of theyr Military
Exersise, whether of the Towne or Regiment, for to cause the mile
to stand stile :     within the grant of this libertie to set up this mile,
is reserved as a Condition, to be performed by the owners of or
imployers of the said mile.
7th of 2d mo.
Goodman Griges, Senr., hath hyred twentie and fowr foot broad
to the streat ajo^'ueinge to his garden one the east, and to be twelve
foot at the lower end, to goe one a strait  Lyne from the streat
unto the lane which runes behind  the orchard or garden of the
said Grigs, and he to pa}- two shillings and six penc every half
year, the pa^'ment to begin the twentie and first ([ay of June next,
and soe to Continue to Pa}' the sum of two shillings and six penc
every half yeare, to be paid unto the tresurer for this towne for the
towne's use for ever, and the grownd and whatsoever he shall bnld
or plant on the said grownd to be securytie for the payment thearof
from tim to tim.   [In margin]   "The town at a genr".  meeting
abated one halfe soe he is to paye 2^ 6*^ p ann
26th of 2d mo., [1652.]
Att a meeting of M"".  Addam Winthrop, M"'. Willm. Brenton,
Lieu'tt  Tho.  Clarke,  M^ Edward  Hutchinson,  Mr.  Jerymy
Howchin, and Thomas Marshall,  it   is   Ordered  that  William
Beamesley and Jarret Bowrn shall see the genirall fence at Muddy
River shall be put into rcpayr according to order of Corte. in  the
absenc of ether of the two above mentioned, Allexander Beck is
apointed to supply the place.
Thear is  granted to John Anderson libertie  to wharf befor the
hie way which ajonneth to his land one the one syd and the land
of Jolin Crabtre on the other syd, and hath libertie granted unto
him for to take wharfidg of strangers for goods or wood shall  be
landed by them one the said wharf.   He hath no libertie  to take
wliarfidg of any inhabitants of the town for either goods or wood
landed one that part of the wharf befor the hie  way, provided it
lie not thear above twentie fowr howers if  it  be seasonable wether
for to gett it  [99.] 1652 away or be not the lord's day.
It is orderetl that Willm. Franklin shall  make good the  Bridg
by Jno. Batman's howse which is over the mill Creeke, together with
the foot of the Bridg at both ends of the said bridg, and to makeit
sufitiently passabell for both Carte and horse as it was mad up when
it  was accepted by the Townsmen, or to the satisfaktion of the
Townsmen, within tenn dayes, on the penaltie of twentie shillings.
31 :    3 mo.
Att a meeting of all the Seleckt men, it is ordered that noe person
 - 134 - 
Boston Town Records, 1652.           Ill
inhabiting within this Town shall throw forth or lay any intralls of
Least or Ibwles or  garbidg or Carion or  dead dogs or Catts or
any other dead beast or stinkeing thing, in  any hie  way or dich
or Common within this neck of land of Boston, but ar injoynened
to bury all  such things  that soe  they may prevent all  anoN-anc
unto any.   Further it is ordered that noe person shall throw forth
dust or dung or shreds of Cloth or lether or an}' tobacko stalks or
any such things into the streats.
Bro. Tho. Marshall hath given a hie way throwgh his grownd for
to goe strait from the mill Bridg to the house of Sarjt. John Bar-
rel! to be sixteen foot broad, to Continue a hie way unto the town
for ever.
This hie way next above written, at the request of Bro. Thomas
Marshall, is relinquished again, andthe town not to be Charged with
the maintinance of it,  this 31 :     11th mo., 1652.
Tho. Sewell and his wif ar admited to live in the towne one the
request of Ed. Flecher, Rich. Greedly, Jno. Parker, Miles Tarne,
Richard Thayre, all of Boston :     all  of the  above named persons
ingag themselves joyntly and severally for to secur the Towne from
all damag and Charg b}' intertaining of them.
26th of 5th mo.
At a metting of all  the Seleekt men, Richard Waite is granted
libertie to set up a porch befor his now dwelhng house, three foot
into the streeat, and 6 foot broad, he payinge to the town tresurer
six  penc every twentie  and fifth day of March, from henceforth
and for ever.
James Pitney is admited a Townsman.  Theoder Adkinson doth
bind  himself in  twentie  pownds starling,  to  be  paid  unto the
Town's Tresurer, on condition for  to  secur the  Town harmless
from all Charg that shall com by the said James Pitne}' or any of
his famyly.
Henry Mosly is Fined twentie shillings for not filling nor cover-
inge of a seller  which lieth  open to the hie waye, to the hazard
of the lives of Children.
AVilliam Shattoke, a Shoemaker, is admited a to be a Townsman.
[100.]  It is Ordered that the seller which is digged partly in
the grownd which Thomas Marshall, Bought of the Towne (which
lyeth between the grownd of M"". Bellingham and the  land of the
said Thomas Marshall), and partly in the streate, shall be fild up
soe farr as belongeth to the hie way, as the hie  way rangeth from
the seller which is now digged and stoned in the land of M'. Rich.
Bellingham, to be left of the sam bredth along unto the hie waj',
which turneth unto the mile by the house of Phillip  Longe ;     this
was agreed one by the  consent of Thomas Marshall,  whoes the
land whear the seller is digged in.
Silvester Harbert is admited a townsman.
9th of 6th.
Att a genirale  towne meeting one publik notis, M"". Powell is
Chosen a Comissioner for to take a list  of the persons which ar by
law to be ratted by pole, and to Joyne with the Seleekt men in
rating the persons and estats of the Inhabitants.
 - 135 - 
112             City Document No. 46.
Robert Feeld is admitted to keep a Cook's Shopp and to draw
beare.
William Corser is  admited to keep a Cook's Shopp and to draw
beare.
30tli of 6th.
At a metting of all the Seleckt men, Awgoston Liudon is  ad-
mited a townsman.
Att the sam meetting, Jams Westmorland is  admited a  towns-
man.
At the sam meting M^ Ed. Hutchinson and Thomas Marshall,
Liftt. James Johnson and Sarjt. Petter Oliver is apointed to  vew
the lands at Muddy river, for the  laying out of a hie  way into the
marsh, and to make a return thearof the next town metting.
[103.*]  5th: 8th mo., [1652.]
Att a Townef meting of M^ Willm. Branton, Capt. Thomas
Clarke, Thomas Marshall and Thomas Savage.
William Whitwell is  admitted to keep a Vicktualing house and
to draw beere for one yeare.
Martin Stebbin is  admitted to keep a Vicktualing house and to
draw beere for one year.
Sarjt. Robert Turner is alowed to have his new house to jet out
farther into the streat  (then his old house now standeth)  as it is
now set up ;      he is  to  pay unto the Towne Tresurer the sum of
two shillings, six penc, per the year, to be paid ever}' twentie and
seaventh day of September from this present day for ever.
21st of the 8th mo.
Att a genirall Meeting of the fremen one due warning, for to
Chuse seaven freemen for to be Comissioners, thear wear Chosen,
Capt.  John Leverit,  Capt. William Tyng, Thomas Savage, M^
Nathaniel Duncom, M"". Ed. Tyng, Capt. Tho. Clarke, M^ Anthony
Stoddard.
Att the sam meetting thear was Chosen, M^ Ed. Hutchinson,
Capt. Robert Keyn, for to draw up and present a petition to the
Genirale Court.
29th :    9th mo.
Att a meeting of all the seleckt men, Thomas Blighe is admited a
Townsman, he carying himself without Scandall.
M''. Thomas Browghton hath libertie to wharf befor his  grownd
which heth at  the Ferry towards Charlstown, provided he wharf
within one year and a day.
Goodwif Howine hath  three  pownds ordered  to  be  pnid  to
deackon Trusdale for her use, according to her desire, which three
pownds is in pt of a Cow due to her Irom the towne.
Goodman Arnal is  fyned five  shillings  for throwing dung and
filth into the street.
* There is no page 101 in the original.
t Evidently the word "Town" is superfluous.
 - 136 - 
Boston Town Eecords, 1652-3.          113
Sarjt,  "William Cotton is  fyned five  shillings for throwing filth
and dnng into the street.
Those whoe have been at Charge for the pavinge of the lane
wliieh goeth from the Cove at M''.  Ilamberyes north west to the
house of Robt. Bradford, ar alowed fortie  shillings towards theyr
Charg, to be paid by the Constable.
13 of 10, [1652.]
Att a towne meettiug one publik notice,  M''. Jno. Coggan, M''.
Jno. Newgat, and M'^. Samll. Cole wear Chosen for to receive the
severall  Sums of mony which any in this  Towne will  underwrit
towards  the mayntinanc of the president and fellowes or  pore
SeoUers of Hervert Colledge.
M^ Edward Hutchinson is the sam day Chosen Gentleman of the
great Artiler}' of Boston.
[103.]  27:10:1652.
Att a metting of all the Seleckt men, William Inglish is admitted
a Townsman.
Richard Taylor hath liberty to set a shop at the sowth end of
INlrs. Hambros house, to be removed on the select mens order.
31, 11 mo.
At a metting of Capt. Tho. Clarke, Ensign Ed. Hutchinson,
Ensign Jerym}- Howchin, and Tho: Savage, and Tho: Marshall.
William Ware is admitted a townsman.
28th of 12th.
Att a metting of all  the Seleckt men, William Gilford, Brike-
layer, is admited a Townsman.
M^ Rich. Bellingham ingageth to secur the town from all  dam-
mag by Receiving of hime for one whole 3'eare.
Goodman Watters is to remove his Fence which is  set up crose
the old hie way which goeth from Tho. Hawkins' howse over the
littell  bridg behind the waiter mile to the Ferry to Charlestown,
before the seaventh of March next, one the penalty of twentie
shillings.
William Foxery is admitted a Townsman.
M"^. Pighogg, a Chururgeon, is admitted a Townsman.
Francis Hudson hath libertie granted unto him to wharfe Befor
his own ground near the Ferry at Charlstown.   He is  inioyned to
leave a suffitient hie way of a rod and half broad betwixt his house
and the syd of wharfe, provided alsoe that he do wharf within one
yeare.
Jno.  Lewes is  fyned 5s.  for  Intertaining of Francis  Burges
without libertie of the seleckt men.
Good" Watters is fyned tenn shillings for Intertaining of Roger
Sowers without libertie form the seleckt men.
14th of 1 mo., 52-53.
Att a generale Towne meeting on publike warning thear was
Chosen deputies for the generale Courte :    Capt. John Leveret and
Capt. Thomas Clarke.
 - 137 - 
114             City DocmiENX No. 46.
Thear is  chosen for Seleckt men :     Ensign Edward Ilntchinson,
Ensign Jeryni}^ Howchinc, Leiuett  Jams Oliver,  Thomas Mar-
shall,  M^ William Brenton,  M^ Samuell Cole,  Cornet Peeter
Oliver.
Thear is   chosen for  Comissioner  to  Cary in  the  Voats for
Majestrats :    M^ Nathll. Dunkom.
Thear is chosen Coustabls :    for this towne, M^ Joseph Rocke,
Henry Bridgham, Bartholmew Chevars, William Wenborne.
For Constabl at Romly Marsh :     John Doelittell.
For Constabl at Muddy Eiver :     Peeter Ashpinall.
And for Clarkes of the market :    Thomas Buttalls and Corporall
Henry Pownding.
And for Seallers of Leather :     William Corser and Robt. Reade.
And for Surveyors of High wayes :     Mathew Barnes, Richard
Benit, Thomas Wiburne.
And for Surveyor at Rumlj^ Marsh :    James Pemerton.
And for Packers of flesh and fish :    Sarjt. John Barrell.
And William Dinsdall and Isack Collimore is Chosen to look to
Cariages and Wheels of the great artiUry,  and to  be  payd by
the seleckt men.
[104.]  Thear was granted unto Isack Collimoor a smale piece
of grownd lying  at  the  Northwest  end of  Mackallin Knight's
grownd, towards the howse of M"". Howchins, which is  for to sett
hime a house one, it is to be layd out by the Sellect men.
The Comissioners for the Town, and the seleckt men, are de-
sired to draw up instrucktious for the deputies against the Generall
Corte they or any five of them ar to doe it.
Ensign Josh. Scotto, Ensign Robt. Scott, M^ Belcher, Edward
Flechar, and Sargt.  Nathll. Williams ar desired to draw up In-
strucktious for the Townsmen to ackt b}', to be an adition to what
Instrucktions they alredy have.
iNP. Hezekiah Usher is Chosen Tresui'er for what is Contributed
within this towne to repaj'r the greate Artilery and fortifiecasyon.
It is Ordered then that thear shall be a ladder or bidders to every
house within this Towne that shall rech to the ridg of the house,
which every houshowlder shall provid for his house by the last day
of the third mo. next, one the penaltie of six shillings, eight penc,
for every on that shall not by the day aforesaid  be provided of
such ladders, and to forfit the aforsaid sum of six  shillings, 8d.
for every mo'th that the}' shall be soe wanting after the aforsaid
last of the 3d mo.
It is Ordered that every howseholder shall provid a pole of above
12 foot long, with a good large swob at the end of it,  to rech the
rofe of his house to quench fire in case of such danger, this  to be
provided by the last of the next 3d mo., on the penaltie of twelve
peuc forfit for everyone that then shall be found defecktive, and
to forfit twelve peuc per month soe long as the}' be so defecktive
after the aforsaid last dayof the 3d mo'th.
It is Ordered that the seleckt men shall forthwith provide six
good and long ladders for the Towne's use, which shall hang at the
outsyd of the  metting house, thenr to be redy in Case of tier, thes
ladders to be branded with the town marke.
 - 138 - 
Boston Town Records, 1653.           115
It is Ordered that whoesoever shall take awa}- any of thes lad-
ders,  excepting in Case of fire,  shall forfit  to the town Tresury
tweutie shillings.
It is Ordered that fower good strong Iron Crooks, with Chaines
and rops fitted to them, and thes Crooks fastned on a good strong
poie be forthwith provided b}'  the seleckt men, which shall hang
at the syd of the meeting house, thear to be ready in Case of fier.
It is Ordered that the Charge was ocasyoned by the devidinge of
the millitary  Company of this Towne shall be paj'd out of  the
Town's Tresurey.
[105.] It is Ordered that noe howse shall be pulled downe in
case of fier l\y any men, without the consent of the major part of
the majestrats and Commissioners and seleckt men of this town
that  ar present thear at the sam time of the fier ;    and that noe
person whoes house shall  be so pulled down within this Towne
shall have or recover any satisfaktion b}'  lawe for any house soe
pulled downe.
William Franklin and ne3'ghbors about his howse is granted lib-
erty to make a sistern of 12 foot or greater, if they see cause, at
the pompe which standeth in the hie way neare to the Stats armes
Tavern,  for to howld watter for to be helpfull,  in  Case of fier,
unto  the  towne.   He is  to  make it  safe from any danger of
Childeren.
The Seleckt men ar to  provid a bellman for to goe about the
towne in the night from tenn unto five a Cloke in  the morning at
such times in Winter as thear is noe wach kept in the towne.
M"". William Ilibbins is granted a small peece of ground at the
outsid of his fram, which now standeth at the North syd of his
grownd, for to sett a pale a littell  without his own grownd soe as
the watter Corse be not stopped nor hindered nor the Towne from
the use of it, the seleckt men ar for to apoint and set out how far
he shall set his pale, soe as other neyghbours thear be not prejudised
thearb3\
The 28th: 1: 53.
Att a meting this daye of M^ Wm.Brenton, Samuel Cole, Capt.
James Oliver,  Ed.  Huchinson,  M".  Jeramyah Houchin, Cornet
Peeter Oliver, and Tho. Marshall.  -,
It  is  ordered  that Maclin Knight, of Boston, and Nathaniell
Willson, of Muddy River, are Chosen overseers for the Fence at
Muddy River, according to Lawe provided in that Case.
Thomas Rider is  fined twentye shillings for breach of Towne
order in taking John Lightfoot as inmate.
William  Franklin  and Joshua Scotto is  fined twenty shillings
for deficyencye of the Bridge over the mill stream near John Bate-
mans house and want of safe passage there.
It is  ordered that the same order as touching hoggs, which was
made for the last yeare, shall Contynue in force for this yeare next
ensuinge.
The 4th of the 2d mo., 1653.
Joseph Rock was fined twentye shillings for refusing to accept
of the ofl3ce of a Constable, being legally chosen thereunto.
 - 139 - 
116             City Document No. 46.
[106.]  The 4tli of the 2 mo., 1G53.
At a generall meting upon publike notyce, Joseph Rock was
Chosen Constable, for the j-eare ensuing.
There is granted unto Maelvlin Knight a parcell of land at the
end of his house, thirtye foot at the north end thereof,  in Lew of
that at the South end of his house, which the Towne hath granted
unto Isack Cullamore.
The 18th: 2 :    53.
At a general meeting, Joseph Rock is fined 20s.  for refusing to
accept of the Constables office, being legally called thereto.
Joseph Rock is Chosen Constable for the yeare ensuing.
Joseph Rock is fined 20s. for refusing to accept the Constables
oflflce, being Legally Chosen therto.
The 25th 2 :    53.
At a meeting this daj^e of M"".  William Breuton, M'".  Samuell
Cole, Capt. left. James Oliver, Jeremyah Houchin, Peeter Oliver,
Tho. Marshall, and Ed. Hutchinson.
It is  ordered that Tho.  Olcott  shall  keepe the  Cowes which
goe on the Comon upon this neck of Land, and to have 2.s.  Gd. per
head for every Cowe that goes there, and he to pa3'e for the wintring
of the bull, which he ingageth to doe, and to l)egin the second of
the od month, and to keepe them till the 2Uth of the Sth mo.
M''. Simon Ayres is  fined tenn shillings for his Chimney being
on fire. Contrary to an order made for prevent3'en thereof.
The 30th: 3d mo., 1653.
At a meeting this  daye of M'. Samuell Cole, M"".  Jeremyah
Houchin, M"". James Oliver, Peeter Oliver, and Tho. Marshall.
David Hichbone is  fined twenty shillings  for  receving James
Robinson into his house as inmate, Contrary to a towne order,
which fine  was Remitted upon his acknowledgment and his sor-
rowe for the same.
[107.] Robert Sanders is Admitted to be an inhabitant of this
towne.
M''. Tho Ruck is allowed to retayle strong water.
27th: 4: 53.
Att a meeting this Daye off M''. "Wm. Brenton, Mr. Samuell Cole,
M^ James Oliver, M"".  Jeremy Houchin, Peeter Oliver,  and Tho
Marshall.
Thomas Alcott is  Chosen to oversee the Comon, and to im-
pound such  Cattell  as  Contrary to order he shall finde to goe
thereupon.
Roger Else is Admitted an inhabitant of this towne.
It is oixlered that fourt^^ shillings shall be payd unto Mr. Robtt
Woodmancye as part of his repayres of his house.
Foras much as sad events have bene by fire when it breaketh out
bej'ond its  due bounds. To the Damage and losse  nott only of
estate but life also,  for preventyon whereof it  is  hereby ordered
that noe fire shall be kindled within three rod of anye ware house
 - 140 - 
Boston Town Records, 1653.           117
or wharfe or wood pile or any other Combusteble matter subiect to
fire, nor shall anyc keepe fire in anj'e vessell lying in anye Dock, or
to anye wharfe after nine of the Clock at night or before five of the
Clock in  the morning, in penalty of every offence tenn shillings,
the one halfe to the Towne, the other halfe to the party Com-
playning ;     this  order to  take  place  the  First daye  of  the  5th
month, 1653.
The 28th, 6th, 1653.
At a meeting this daye of M^ Saranell Cole, M'. William Breu-
ton,  M^ James Oliver,  M^ Jeremy Houchin, M"".  Edward Huch-
inson, Peeter Oliver, and Thomas Marshall.
It is ordered and agreed upon that whearas Richard Cooke and
the select men of the towne agreed for  a parcell of Land, being
part of the Land belonging to the schoole house, the 29th [ 108.]
of the  1st  mo., 52,  it  is  now further ordered  and agreed that
whearas the sayd Rich. Cooke was, in  the former order, to paye
thirtj-e shiUings per annem, he shall nowe paye l^utt twentye shil-
lings per annem, and he stand to all Charge of Fencing for ever ;
the sayd rent to be payd into the hands of the Townes Ti-easurer
quarterly upon demand.
It is ordered that M"". Foot shall Fence his seller from the high
waye neare to the bridge over the mill-stream soe as the high way
ma}' be without Danger betwixt this,  the seaventh daj'e of the
seaventh mo., in penalty of twenty shillings for defect hereof.
The 26tb of the 7th, 53.
Att a meeting this daye of M^ Samuell Cole, M^ James Oliver,
M'. Jeremy Houchin, Peeter Oliver, and Tho. Marshall.
The 26th, 8th mo., 53.
Att a meeting this daj'e of M\ Samuell Cole, M"". James Oliver,
M^ Jeremy Houchin, Peeter Oliver, and Tho. Marshall.
Gwalter Senett hath Liberty granted to  digg a Cove in  the
Marshe neare M"". Ransfords to Lxy his boate in.
The 26th of the 10th moneth, 1653.
At a meting this daye of M"'. AVillm. Brenton, M^ Samuel Cole,
M''. Edward Huchinson, M^ James Oliver, M^ Jeremyah Houchin,
M^ Peeter Oliver, and Tho. Marshall.
Joshua Scotto and AVilliam Franklin have liberty from the select
men to alter the drawe bridge, whereas it is made [to] rise  in one
Leafe, and, by reason thereof, heavy and dangerus, to make it to
rise in two leaves :    provided they make it as suffitj'ent as when the
towns men First accepted it,  to the acceptance of the salect men,
and soe to keepe [109.] it from time to time in suffityent repayr.
And have Liberty also to Levell, rayse or fall  the Bridge as they
see occasyon,  provided they make good the high wa3'es  and soe
keepe it in repa3'r from time to time ;    this order having refcrrence
to the origynall  grant unto Henry Simons, George Burden, John
Button, John Hill and partners.
 - 141 - 
118             City Document No. 46.
The 30th, 11, 53.
Att a meeting this  daye of M^ Samuell Cole, M''. WiUm. Bren-
tou,  M'.  Edward  Huchinson,  M''.  James  Oliver,  M'".  Jeremy
Ilouchin, Peeter Oliver, and Tho. Marshall.
It is  hereby ordered that every inhabitant within the towne of
Boston shall make np, and soe keep in suffytyent repayr, all their
fences betwixt neighbour and neighbour, as well in garden as in
all  other out fences, betwixt this and the 2.jth of the first  month
next, in penalty of Five shillings per rod for every rod defectyve.
It is ordered that Alexander Beck and Edward Devotyon shall
oversee the fences at Muddy river, and give warning to the owners
of the severall fences that they be made suffytyent betwixt this
and the 25th of the first  mo., and soe kept in suff3-tyent repayr
fi'om time to time according to order as in that case is  provided.
Simon Rogers and Robtt. Readhath ingaged to serve the towne as
Bellmen, to goe up and downe throughout the towne by the space of
five bowers in the night, beginningat eleaven, and soe to Contynue
till foure, and to have twentye shillings by the week for their Labour.
The 12th: 1: 53 or 54.
At a  meeting this daye upon publike notice was Chosen for
Townesmen :  M^ Wm. Brenton, M"^. William Davis, M^ Jeremyah
Houchin, M"". James Oliver, M"". Samuel Cole, M"".  Peeter Oliver,
and Tho. Marshall.
Chosen for Deputyes :    Capt. Thomas Clarke and Capt. Thomas
Savage.
Chosen for Constables :     Habacuck GloA^er, Tho. Mattson,
Farnham, and Thomas Wibourne.
Chosen for a Constable at Rumney Marshe :    William Hearsay.
For Muddy River :     Garrett Bourne.
Chosen for Surveyors :     Richard Crichley, Hough Drm-y,
Goose, and Nathiell. Adams ;    and for Rumney Marsh was chosen
Thomas Stocker.
Chosen for Clarkes of the markett :    Joseph Rock, and Thomas
Robtts.
Chosen for Leather sealers :     William Courser, and Robt. Reed.
[109.*] Chosen for Searchers and packers of Flesh and Fish:
William Dinsdayle and John Barrell.
Capt. Tho. Clarke and Capt. Tho. Savage are desired to returne
the towne's answer to the Comissyoners of the Colledge about the
mone3's to be gathered for the same.
It is ordered that none shall burne Lime, or boyle anye bluber or
anye other thing which may be an3'e anoj'ance to the towne, but at
the directyon and appoyntment of the select men, who have hereby
power to appoynt such places as ma}' be without anoyance.
Theselect menhave powerand liberty herebyto agree with Joseph
Jynks for Ingins to Carry water in Case of fire, if they see Cause
soe to doe.
The 27th 1 :   1654.
At a meeting this  daye of M^ Wm. Brenton, M"'. Wm. Davis,
M^ Samuell Cole, M'. Peeter Oliver, and Thomas Marshall.
• Two pages are numbered 109.
 - 142 - 
Boston Town Records, 1654.           119
M'. Wm. Davis, and M"". Peeter Oliver, John White, and Pccter
Aspinwall are Chosen to Jo^-n with Cambridge to lay out a hie
waye through muddy river to Cambridge.
M"". Samuell Cole was Chosen sealer for waights and measures.
M'". Thomas Braughton his grant of liberty to Wharfe or make a
barrocado before his land at Center haven is Gontynued.
M^ William Davis is  Chosen Treasurer for the Towne, for the
3'eare ensewing.
Thomas Marshall was Chosen Recorder for the Towne, for the
3-eare ensuing.
M"'. James Oliver and Robtt Turner are appoynted to run the
line  betwixt Cambridge and Rocksbur}', and tlie  towne of Boston
in perambulatyon.
Capt. Robt. Kayne and John Touthill are Chosen to run the line
betwixt Boston, Charlstowne, and Linn in perambulatyon.
[110.]  The same order which was made about hoggs for the
year 52, is to be in force for this yeare, next insuing.
The 24, 2 mo. 54.
At a meeting this Day of M^ Samuell Cole, M"". James Oliver,
M''. Wra. Davis, M^ Peeter Oliver,  M"".  Jeremj^ah Houchin, and
Thomas Marshall.
It is ordered that Thomas Olcott shall kepe theCowes this yeare,
ensuing and shall have two shillings perhead for every Cow that goes
upon the Comon, and sixe pence per head for the hire of two bulls,
which he iiath hereby power to gather upon every Cowe.
It is ordered that none shall gather anye Dung on the Common,
nor Carrye an^-e of from the Common, in penality of every barrow
full  of Dung soe taken awaye to forfeit tenn shillings.
It  is  ordered that the pound keeper shall  have for his fees for
pounding of one horse, 4cZ. ;   and for moi'e than one to the numberof
sixe, 3d. per head ;     and for Cattell M. per head to the number of
6 and above sixe at 2d. per head ;   and for sheepe for every head a
penn3'e to the number of tvvent3-e ;   and if above twent3'e, for every
head a halfepennj'c.
The 28: 4 mo., 54
The towne hath Covenanted with William Ireland  and Aron
Wa^'e to make good the hie waye as it is  now layd out b}' the
towne of Lin, leading from Lin to Wenesemett, vids :     that part
which is  newh' layd out,  part in  M^ Nugates, and part in their
owne land, the}' are to make and mayntayn it  for seaven yeares in
suffytyent repayr, for which the towne is to give them five pound.
William Bruff is admitted as an Inhabytant, William Wenbourne
standing bound to the towne that ha shall nott be Chargeable thereto.
Forasmuch as Complaynt hath bene made by severall persons
(that the high wa}* at  Rumney marsh, which is  layd out for the
private use of the farmes, to lead unto the landingplace by M"". New-
gates), that severall persons have refused to be at Cliarge of Re-
payre thereof, though such as have benefitt bythe use of it.  [111.]
It is therefore hereby- ordered that the inhabitants of RumneyIMarsh
that shall make use of the fore mentj'oned high wa}', shall, accord-
 - 143 - 
120             City Document No. 46.
ing to proportvon Contribute to the mayntenance thereof; and in
Case auj^e shall refuse soe to doe, the resedue have hereby power to
debarre them of passage through the sayd waye.
M''. Dean Winthorp and Amos Richardson, on the behalfe, and
as Agents unto M''. Steaven Winthorp, doe laye out a high waye
through the  marsh from Henry Bridgliam's house  to  Beniamin
Ward's wharfe, soe farr as their  ground goeth, and where their
ground ends, the town granteth the residue  of the waye through
the marsh which belongs to the Towne, the street to runn in a line,
as it is now staked and marked.
Richartl Norton is  fined  for receiving George Palmer into the
towne,  contrary to  order in  that  case,  the  which fine  the said
Palmer engages to pay.
31th: 5: 54.
At a meting this daye of M'. Wm. Brenton, M^ Samuell Cole,
M"".  Jeremy Houchin,  M^ James Oliver,  M"".  Wm. Davis,  M''.
Peeter Oliver,  and Tho. Marshall.
Tho. Smith is received as an Inhabitant.
Mrs. Bridgett Sandford is admitted an Inhabitant.
Mr. Hezekyah Usher aad Tho. Clarke, shop keeper, was Chosen
for to  Collect the  severall summs subscribed for the Use of the
Colledge by the select men.
Thomas Hawkins is to paye two shillings, sixe, for the use of the
Lane that leads to the mill  Cove  (b}' the yeare) and hath hereb}'
liberty to fence it in  soe long as the towne sees good to lett him
make use of it.
This Lane is recorded, folio 10, to be Arod and half broad.
[113.]  28th: 6th mo., 1654.
Att a meeting this daye of M^ Wm. Brenton, M^ Samuell Cole,
M^ Wm. Davis, J\P.  Jeremy Houchin,  M'. Peeter  Oliver,  M^
James Oliver,  and Tho. Marshall.
Itt is  ordered that upon the seenryty of  Hugh Willms, Mary
Hayle is  admitted to  reside  with us, the  said  Willms ingaging
that she shall not be Chargeable to the towne.
Itt is ordered that Mathew Barnes shall remove the pales at the
Corner of the mill, and remove his wood that lyes upon the high
waye before  the first  of the seaventh mo. in penalty of twentye
shillings.
At a meeting the 25th :    7th mo., 54, of M^ Wm. Brenton, M^
Samuell Cole,  M'. Wm. Davis, M^ Jeremy Houchin, M^ Peeter
Oliver, M^ James Oliver, and Tho. Marshall.
M'. Wm. Davis, M^ Jeremy Houchin, and M^Peeter Oliver are
Chosen to  veiw the land at the end of the house that was George
Bennitts, and determine whether it  be the towns land or belonging
to the sayd house.
Simon Rogers is  Chosen for bellman, to begin the first of Oct.
and soe to Contynue till the first of the third mo. next.
Edward Grcneclif is admitted as an Inhabitant.
INIr. John Floyd is hereby fined five shillings for Receveing Mrs.
Pacey into his house as inmate.
 - 144 - 
Boston Town Records, 1654.           121
Farnham is  fined five shillings for Eeeeveing goodman
Wales into his house as inmate.
Joseph JSwett is admitted an inhabitant.
It is ordered that anye that shall take anye earth outof the Lane
that leads from Theoder Atkinsons house to Rich Gridleys shall
bring two load of Gravell for ever}' load of earth soe Carr3'ed
avvaye ;    upon penalty of every load of earth soe taken, and nott
two load of Gravell returned, topaye five shilhngs.
[113.]  At 31st: 8 mo., 54.
At a  meeting this  daye  of  M^ Samuell Cole,  M'.  Jeremy
Houchin, ]\F.  James OUver, M^ Wm. Davis, M'".  Peeter Oliver,
and Tho. Marshall.
Richard Green is admitted as an Inhabitant, Jasper Rawlins hav-
ing Ingaged that he shall nott be anye Charge to the town, and doth
hereby secure the towne thereof.
28 :   9th :  54.
At a meeting this daye of M^ Samuell Cole, INP. Wllm. Brenton,
M"". Jerem}' Houchin, M''.  James Oliver,  M"".  Peeter OUver, Mr.
Wm. Davis, and Tho. Marshall.
Edward Devotyon is Chosen Constable for Muddy River in the
roome of Jaratt Bourne.
Robtt Brooks is admitted an inhabitant of this town.
25th: 10:54.
Att a meeting this daye of M^ Samuell Cole. M'". Wm. Brenton,
M'. Wm. Davis,  M'.  Jeremy Houchin,  M"".  Peeter Oliver,  M"".
James Oliver, and Tho. Marshall.
Itt  is  ordered that itf  anye Chimney shall  be fired  soe as to
Flame out att the topp the owner thereof shall paye unto the towns
treasurer, for the use of the towne, the sum of five  shillings, and
the  order made about Chimneys the  24th:  9th: 51, is  hereb}^
repealed.
Itt is ordered that the bridge that leades over  the mill  stream
neare to John Batemans house shall be mended up soe as people
may passe safehe over without  danger,  by the owners thereof
within a weeke,  in  penalty of twenty  shillings,  the 25th: 10th
mo., 54.
Itt is ordered that the Souliers that waspressed for the expedityou
agaynst Ninicraft to be in a Readynesse att two hours warninge,
and soe  taken  of from their owne occasyons,  being billited in
severall houses by the Counsell, the  Charges shall  be  allowed to
as many as require it, what is  necessary'.
29th: 11: 54.
Att a meeting this daye of M^ AVm. Brenton, M^ Samuell Cole,
M^ Jereni}' Houchin, and, M"". Wm. Davis, M"". Peeter Oliver and
M''. James Oliver, and Tho. Marshall.
[114.]  The Treasurer is  to  paye to  severall  persons  (vid :
unto Wm. Hudson, Evan Thomas, Wm. Blanton, and Nicolas
Upshall)  the  sum of  seaventene  pound,  fiftene  shill :       for  the
 - 145 - 
122            City Document No. 46.
billiting of 32 souliers, being impressed for the expedityon agaynst
!Ninicraft.
Mathew lans is approved of to keep a house of publique enter-
tayument for the j^eare ensuinge.
Itt is ordered that noe man shall take and Carrye awaye anie of
the towns ladders from eather of the meeting howses, except in
Case of fire ;    in penaltye of five shillings for ever}' ladder Carryed
away Contrary to this order.
^  Itt is ordered that M^ Samuel Cole, M'. Jeremyah Houehin, and
Tho. Marshall shall  vewe the  land that was granted unto  Tho.
Munt, whether it  be a mete Competency for  the  land  that the
towne makes use of his for a hie waye neare unto M^ Farnesids
house.
The like order and penalty as for  the ladders, soe for the buc-
cetts.
John Sumner is admitted as an inhabitant.
The 26 :    12 :    54.
Att a metingthis Daye of M^ Samuell Cole, M^Willm. Brenton,
M'. Jeremyah Houehin, M'. Wm. Davis, J\r.  Peeter Oliver,  M".
James Oliver, and Tho. Marshall.
Upon the desire of our sister Baxter  (that her husband being
Taken at sea and lost what he had in the j'eare 1653, his rate being
fifteene shillings) was Remitted.
Tho. Hill is Admitted to be an inhabittant.
John Mosse, Taylor, is Admitted to be an inhabitant.
Itt is this daye ordered that there shall  be a distresse leveyed
upon the land the which was John Shawes, bucher, for the Rent
which is behind due to the Towne upon the Dock Caled Bendalls
Dock.
Whereasupon occasyon of fire the buccettswere taken and made
use of,  andseverall of them nott yett returned, it is hereby ordered
that whoever hath anie of the saydbuccetts shall forth with returne
them in penalty of tenn shillings for  every buccett nott, returned
with tenn dayes.
[115.]  The 12th: 1  mo.: 54-55.
Att a meeting this Day upon publique notis from house to house,
was Chosen for  select men, M^ Wm. Brenton, M^ Samtiell Cole,
M"". Wm. Davis, M^ Peeter Oliver, M^ James Oliver, M'.  Wm.
Paddey, and Tho. Marshall.
For Constables, Bro.  Shrimptou,  Joseph Rock, John Webb,
Heugh Drurye.   Bro.  Shrimptou  refusing.  Rich.  HoUidge  was
Chosen for Constable.
For  Muddy River,  John White ;    For Rumney Marsh, Simon
Bird, as Constables.
Bro. M'. Henr}- Shrimpton was fined five pound for refusing the
Constables oflSce, being leagally chosen thereto.'
For Surveyers, Nathaniel Adams, Richard Crichle^', Goose the
Carter,  and  Sam. Sendall ;       and Edward Weeden for  Rumney
Marsh.
For Clarks of the  Markett,  Wm. Cotten,  Heugh Williams,
Theodar Atkinson.
 - 146 - 
Boston Town Records, 1G55.           123
For Searchers  and Sealers  of  Leather,  WiUm. Courser and
Eobt. Reed.
For Searchers  and packers of flesh and fish,  James Mattoik,
senior, and Wm. Dinsdayle.
For Corders  of Wood, Tho.  Leader, Rich.  Tayler, Anthony
Harker, Rich. Greeme,
30 :   1 :   1655.
Att a meeting this day of M^ Wm. Brenton, M'. Wm. Paddy,
Capt.  James Olliver,  Cornett  Peter  Olliver,  M"".  Sam.  Cole,
and Wm. Davis.
Wm. Davis was chosen Treasurer and recorder.
M'. Peter Olliver was chosen sealer of weights and measures.
Capt. James Oliver, L. Robt. Turner, John Hull, Jacob EHott,
Peter Olliver, and John White are chosen to run the line betweene
Cambridge and Boston, and Roxbury and Boston att Muddy river.
Capt.  Robt.  Keayne, M"".  Ed. Hutchinson, John Tuttill,  Juo.
Dolitle and Tho. Stocker are chosen to run the line betweene Lyn
and Boston, and Charlestowne and Boston.
[116.]  Itt is  ordered that 20s.  shall bee allowed M". Rich-
ards for her rate in the year 54.
Tho. Alcock* chosen Cow keeper for this yeare, and shall have
2s. 6rf.  a head for ever}- Cow ;   as also to be pounder.
Itt is ordered that the order aboutt swine, in p. 97, shall stand in
force for this yeare ensuing ;    goodman Leader, senior, to j'oke and
ring.
Itt is  ordered that the sheepe kept on the neck shall  nott goe
abroad withoutt a keeper after the first  of the 2d moneth next,
upon the penalty mentioned in p. 110.
Thomas Jones is admitted an inhabitant, and Robert Sanderson
bound to secure the towne from charges that may arise by him.
Alexander Beck and Ralph Roote are authorized to oversee the
ordering of the  fence in  the comon feild  att  Muddy river,  and
have power to choose outt of the proprietors meete men to attend
that worke from time to time.
Itt is ordered that no ram shall goe upon the neck after the 10th
of June next, nor bee putt upon the neck till  the  first  of Novem-
ber, upon the penalty of 20.s.  for everj' ram so continued or putt
on, either by butchers or others.
And itt is further ordered that no butcher shall putt any sheepe
upon the Comon upon the penalty of five shillings for every sheepe,
the one halfe to the pounder the other halfe to the towne.
Itt is  ordered that M"".  Shrimptons fine of five pounds, for not
serving in the place of a Constable this 3'care, shall be leavied.
The debt demanded by the  administrators  of Major Edward
Gibbonnes, deceased, was referred  (by the towne att the last  pub-
lick townes meeting) to  the present select men, together with the
help of the ancient townes men to be issued with the said Admin-
istrators.
Itt  is  ordered that Wm. Blantan shall pay sixe  shillings per
annum for  ever every first dsLy of the seaventh moneth from this
* The name ofWm. Wiseman was fii-st written here, and then stricken out.
 - 147 - 
124            City Docuiment No. 46.
time forward, in  consideration of a parcell of land sould him for
the scbooles use.
Itt is  ordered that whosoever shall cut, hack or hew any of the
trees planted in the neck shall pay for ever}^ tree so spoyled twenty
shillings, the one halfe to the informer, the other to the towne.
Itt is ordered that the draw-bridg over the mill streame shall bee
repayred and made secure for the safet}' of passengers by the 14th
of the 2d mo. next, upon penalty of 20s., and upon further neglect
206-.  for ever}' weeke.
[117. ]    For as much as many complaints of greatt danger by
a well of Robt. Nannyes, itt is therefore ordered that the said well
shall bee madeup secure by the Gth of the next mo.,  upon penalty of
twenty shillings, and for every weeke afterwards 20s., and hee is to
secure his sellar in the streete upon the said penalt}'.
Itt is  ordered that the ten pounds left by legacy to the use of
the schoole of Boston by mis. Hudson, deceased,  shall bee lett
to Capt. James OUiver for sixteen shillings  per annum, so long as
hee pleases to improve itt,  the which he is to pay in wheate, pease
and Indian to  the Townes Treasurer  every first  of the 1  mo.,
beginning in March 54-55, and upon his delivery of the principall
to the townes Treasurer, itt  shall bee paid in  corne as aforemen-
tioned.
16: 2: 55.
Att a meeting upon publick notice, Itt is ordered that the right
of comonage shall bee forthwith laid outt to the Comoners accoid-
ing to their several proportions by the select men acording to the
order in  (46), and to take the names of such as shall be reputed
comoners.
27: 2: 55.
Att a meeting this day of W. Wm. Brenton, M''.  "Wm. Paddy,
M"". James Olliver, M^ Sam. Cole, Peter Ollivcr, and Wm. Davis.
Itt  is  ordered  that  the  guns in  the  markett place  shall  be
trimmed upp against the court of election annually, att the townes
charge.
Itt is  ordered that  Tho. Leader, senior, shall be impowred to
seize  all  forfeitures that shall arise by swine nott being j'oaked
and ringed according to the order in that case ;   the one halfe to the
townes use, the other halfe to the said Leader.
John Birchall is admitted an inhabitant.
Itt is  ordered that the Constable shall distrayne upon the land
in the possession  of M^ Symon Lynde, or any goods now upon
itt, to the value of fourty shilhngs due to the towne for foure years
rent.
Mis. Pacy is admitted an inhabitant, provided M"".  Bradstreet or
John Johnson and Wm. Parkes of Roxbury give security to save
the towne from all charges that may arise by her.
Itt  is  ordered that the wife of Xofer* Piggott shall bee forth
with sent to Muddy river to her husband by the constable.
*The usual abbreviation of Christopher.
 - 148 - 
Boston Town Records, 1655.           125
Itt  is  ordered that the Constable, shall  distra3'ne  upon Deare
Hand for the rent that is due to the towne to the first  of March
last past.
[118.]  Itt is ordered that no dry Cattell or calves shall goe
upon the neck, upon the penalt}^ of sixe pence a day for every beast
so putt on, as also that no horses or mares shall bee putt on the
neck on the penalty of twelve pence a day or night for ever}' horse
or mare, and itt  shall bee lawful for the cowkeeper to impound
the said Cattell and leavy the said  fines,  the one halfe to him-
selfe, the other to the towne ;    this order to take place the  16th of
the fourth month.
28: 3: 1655.
Att a meeting this  day of M^ Wm. Brenton, W. Sam. Cole,
M'. Wm. Paddy, Capt. James Olliver, M^ Peter Olliver, and Wm.
Davis.
Whereas, the last running of the head line att mudd}- river be-
tweene Boston and Cambridg was nott determined to mutuall sat-
isfaction,  itt  is  now agreed that  the  line  shall bee run againe
betweene us, and the issue of the case to bee in the determination
of Leiut. Fisher and those sent by the towne, with M"'. Jackson
for Cambridge, which shall bee done with convenient speed.
It is ordered that JamesBill shall be prohibited selling any more
wood att Deare Hand, itt being conceived that whatt wood is  left
is  butt convenient for a farme, which is  to bee left  according to
lease.
Richard Otis, Smith, is admitted an inhabitant, provided bee give
securit}^ to free the towne from charge.
The account of M"". Glover and the other Constables for the last
3'eare was received ia, vizt. for a Country' rate and a towne rate to
the sum of three hundred eightj^-seven pounds, nine shillings, five
pence, of which sums they are dischai-ged as per their account.
25: 4: 55.
Att a meeting this day of M^ Wm. Brenton, M'. Sam. Cole,
M"". Wm. Padd}', Capt. James Olliver, M"". Peter Olliver, and Wm.
Davis.
Whereas a considerable part of the rent due to the use of the
schoole for Long Hand and Spectacle Hand is  nott brought in by
the renters of the land according to the contract with the towne,
Itt is therefoi-e ordered that the present renters shall  within ten
dayes after the date hereof come in and cleare their severall pa}--
ments due for the said land, to the towne's treasurer upon the for-
feiture of the said lands as b}' former agreement, to bee entered
upon by the said treasurer by warrant under his hand to the Con-
stable.
Itt is further ordered that whereas severall of the lands att the
aforesaid Hands are sold and changed from one to another that so
itt cannott bee knowne who are in arrears for the land —
[119.]  It is therefore ordered that all such as claime an}' title
to that land or any part thereof as renters, shall yearel}' come in
tind declare themselves to bee renters, upon the first second day of
the eleventh month, upon the poenalty of payment oftwelve pence
 - 149 - 
126             City Document No. 46.
an acre for every acre so rented, for which the treasurer for the
present jeare shall lea\y b}' warrant to the Constable, under his
hand from time to time.
Itt is ordered that Tho: Alcock shall allow three pence a head to
the treasurer of the towne for every cow kept on the Comon towards
the wintering of the Bull.
30: 5: 55.
Att a meeting of M'. Wm. Brenton, M'. Wm. Paddy, M'. Sam.
Cole, Capt. James Olliver,  M^ Peter OUiver, and Wm. Davis.
Martin Stebbin hath liberty,  upon his  good behavior, to sell
beare for one yeare.
Christopher Avery is admitted an inhabitant.
Mathew Barnes, upon complaint of the defect of the Bridg at
the mill doore, is ordered to repayre  the sayd bridge sufficiently
for horse and foote within fowre dayes on the poenalty of twenty
shillings.
Wm. Blantan hath liberty to dig 6 or 8 load of earth outt of
the swamp by the windmill or where M^ Cole, JVP.  Peter Olliver
allow.
Itt is ordered that Edward Greenliff shall have liberty to sett a
house of eighteene foote Deepe and twelve foote to the Front from
the end of M^ Batts tan house  paying two shillings,  six pence
per annum to the schooles use,  as long as hee improves itt  for a
dying house.
Whereas the towne formerly granted  a peece of land to M"".
Wm. Hibbins before his new frame ;    itt is  ordered there shall bee
fonre foote in breadth along before the new house allowed to her.*
Whereas, complaint is made of a noysome pitt by the house of
Joseph Howe. Cooper; itt is  ordered that the same pitt shall bee
filled upp within a month, upon the penalt}- of twenty shillings.
[120.]  29:8:55.
Att a meeting of M^ Wm. Brenton, M^ Tho. Marshall, Wm.
Paddy, Peter Olliver, Sam. Cole, James Olliver, and Wm. Davis.
Itt is ordered that Tho. Duer, Christopher Clarke, and John Bar-
rell  shall have liberty to make a Defence for the Cawsy before
their houses, either by setting downe posts and rayles or otherwise,
to preserve the Cawsy from damage of Carts or horses.
William Whittwell hath his license renewed to sell beare for the
yeare ensuing.
Mathew Pries is admitted an inhabitant.
Itt is ordered that Mauditt Ingles, Jno. Marshall, and Rich. Ta}--
lor are chosen to bee sworne measurers for all corne that shall bee
received outt of vessells till new are chosen in their roome, for which
the receiver shall pa^' to the measurer three pence a score.   And itt
is ordered that all corne shall bee struck with a rowle so measured.
According to the power granted by the Gen. court to the  select
men of the towne of Boston in reference to the disposall of the
house and land of Eliz:  Rider, in Dorchester, which her father,
Wm. Lane, gave to her and her children, wee have inquired into
* The marginal note is " Mis. (i. e. mistress) Hibbins grant."
 - 150 - 
Boston Town Records, 1655.           127
the value of the land and house and have consented to the sale of
the sayd land and house to James Bates, of Dorchester leaving
the sayd Bates to receive his title from the Gen. Court.
27: 9: 1655.
Att a meeting of Tho. Marshall, James Olliver,  Peter Olliver,
Sam. Cole, AVm. Padd}' and Wm. Davis.
Isaac Walker, Sam. Norden, Robt. Nanny, and Xofer Gibson
are fined 10s. a man for their Chymnyes being on fire, which the
Constables are to Icavy.
Samson Shore is fined \0s. for the like offence.
The Constables are to allow to Walter Merry eight shillings in lieu
of a debt due to him from the towne in ('44)
.
Sam. Jewell is admitted an inhabitant and Mark Hamesis bound
in a bond of 40/. to save the town from charge.
Deacon Johnson hath liberty to sett up a porch before his house
doore foure foote into the streete.
Robert Wyatt and Wm. Lane are appointed to sweepe chimneyes
and to cr}' aboutt streetes that they may bee knowne.
Sam. Norden hath 5s. of his fine remitted.
[121.]  31: 10: 55.
Att a meeting of Tho. Marshall, Wm. Paddy, Sam Cole, Capt.
James Olliver, Peter OlUver, and Wm. Davis.
Whereas M^ Tho. Lake and Joshua Scotto,  administrators to
the estate of Major Ed. Gibbones, deceased, have frequently de-
maunded of the towne a debt of fourty-five pounds, due from the
towne to the sayd Gibbones, itt  is therefore agreed by us with the
sayd  M^ Lake and Jos.  Scotto,  that  (because the whole debt
appeares nott so  clearely due) twent}' pounds shall bee pa3'd to
the sayd Lalve and Scotto, upon which payment the towne shall be
discharged from an}- further demaunds of any debt or debts, pi'e-
tended to be due from the towne by the said Administrators to the
said estate of major Ed. Gibones.
Itt is agreed that Lieut. Fisher shall bee imployed in running the
line and drawing a draught of all the lands in Braintree belonging to
the towne of Boston, as also to draw a draught ofall the land given
to the Iron-workes and confirmed tQ M"". Leader on their behalfe.
Mis.  Ilanbury is  fined  five  shillings  for  intertaining Francis
Smith contrary to order.
Wm. Reade'is fined sixe shilUngs, eight pence, for intertaining
Tho. Sheffield contrary to order.
It is ordered that fourty pounds, thirtene  shillings  bee added to
the next country rate in the 3'eare 56, being to satisfy for the same
sum that should have beene gathered as a quarter rate this yeare,
for which sum a bill is  given to the Treasurer under the hands of
Peter Olliver and Wm. Davis in the behalfe of the towne.
28: 11: 1655.
Att a meeting of Tho. Marshall, Wm. Paddy, Sam. Cole, Capt.
James Olliver, Peter Olliver, and Wm. Davis.
Itt is ordered that three pounds shall bee paid to Wm. Dawes
 - 151 - 
128             City Document No. 46.
for worke done at Fort-hill ;     upon the pa3nnent of which the towne
shall bee acquitted of an}' further clayme by the sayd Dawes.
lit is ordered that ten pounds shall be payd to Capt. Tho. Savage
and Ca{)t. James Olliver in consideration of the like value payd to
Henr}- Blake for brick and Ume att Fort-hill, upon the payment of
which they are to secure the towne from an}- further clayme by
the sayd Blake.
[133.]  Memoranda, that there is  a greatt l)ell  belonging to
the towne lent to Castle Hand to Capt. Rich. Davenport.
Mr. Cogan is fined thirtecne shillings, foure pence in case hee cleare
nott the streets before his bowsing of stones, rubbish and chests be-
fore the 4th day next att night, as also to secure his sellar doore.
Itt is ordered that foure pounds, ten shillings bee payd to Sam
Syndall and Peter Goose for worke done att Fort-hill, upon the pay-
ment of which they are to acquitt the towne from any further cla}me.
HenryLee is admitted an inhabitant upon his good behavior, and
Capt. Davenport is  engaged to save the towne from any charge
that may arise from his family.
Wm. Spowell and David Hitchbone are authorized to warne the
inhabitants of the towne to yoke and ring all the swine in this
towne by the 4th of the next mo., else the foresayd persons may
impound such swine so found unj^oked and unrung, accordingto for-
mer order.
Itt is ordered that twenty shiUings bee payd to Jasper Rawlins
for lime and brick att Fort-hill, upon the payment of which he is
to acquit the towne from any further clayme.
25 :    12 :    55.
Att a meeting of M^ Wm. Brenton, Tho. Marshall, Sam. Cole,
Peter Olliver and Wm. Davis.
Itt is ordered that sixe shillings bee allowed to Wm. Talmage for
land taken into the high way.
Nathaneell Woodard is admitted an inhabitant, and Thomas Har-
wood bound in a bond of 20/. to secure the towne from any charge
that may arise by the sayd Wodard or his ft\mily.
For as much as there was a grant unto Isaake Culimore of a
dwelling howse, which is  about twenty-eight foot in  length, and
between his house and the highway ten foot, the whole breadth of
the House and ground at the front is twenty-six foot, it not being
formerly recorder:! it is now orderly performed.
Macklin Knight also  having formerly changed with Goodman
CuUimore and enjoying that piece  of Land formerly graunted to
Isack Cullimore, being thirty two foot in length as now fenced in.
and acknowledged to be his proper right.
[123.]  10. 1. 55.
Att a generall townes meeting upon Publick notice.
Capt. Tho. Clarke and Capt. Tho. Savage ai'e chosen Deputyes
for the yeare ensuing.
Selectmen chosen :     M"". Wm. Brenton, Tho. Marshall, M^ Sam.
Cole, Capt. James Olliver, Cornett Peter Olliver, M^ Wm. Paddy,
and Wm. Davis.
Constables chosen for the towne :   Wm. Toy, Daniell Turin, Wm.
English, and Henry Allin.
 - 152 - 
Boston Town Eecords, 1655.           129
Rnmn,yMarshand Muddyriver, "NVm. Ireland and Henry Stevens.
Surveyors of high wa3'es chosen :    Rich.  Samford,  sen.,  Robt.
Wright, Jacob EUott and Sam Nordcn, and Sam Davis att Rumncy
Marsh.
Clarices of the markett, Habacuck Glover and AVm. Cotton.
Sealers of leather, Jno. Parker and Juo. Stivinson.
Packers of fish and flesh  and gagers of cask, Wm. Dinsdale,
and Jno. Cunny.
Corders of wood, Tho. Leader, Rich. Ta3'lor, Anthony Harker,
and Rich. Greene.
Water  Bailj^es,   Rich.  Gridley,  Mauditt  Ingles,  Alexander
Adams, and Wm. Beamsle}'.
Upon the request of Wm. Toy to accept of Plugh Drurj- to serve
as constable, the towne accepted of the same.
Wm. Davis is  chosen Commissioner to receive the proxj-es for
magistrates and to carry them in att the County meeting.
Whereas greatt inconveniences may accrew to the towne and
inhabitants thereof, especially children, by persons irregular riding
through the streetes of the towne, and galloping.   Itt is therefore
ordered that if any person shall bee scene to gallop through any
streete of the town after this da}', except upon dayes of military
exercise, or any extraordinar}- case require, ever}' such person shall
pay two shilUugs, sixe pence, for every default, the one halfe to
come to the town, to bee paid to the Treasurer then being, and
the other halfe to the informer ;     and itt  shall bee lawfall for any
person  to make stop of such  horse or  rider  till  the sayd fine
be paid as aforesaid.
Further whosoever shall turne outt any horse loose through the
towne to water or otherwise shall pay 12d. for every defect ofthat
kind being scene without a guide or rider.
[134.]  12. 1.  1655.
Att a meeting of Wm. Brenton, Tho. Marshall, Sam. Cole, Wm.
Paddy, Capt. James Olliver, Peter Olliver, and Wm. Davis.
Itt is ordered that publick notice bee given to the towne to meete
the next day to choose another Constable in the roome of Hugh
Drur^^ if they see meete.
Wm. Davis is chosen Treasurer and Recorder for the Towne for
this yeare.
Peter Olliver is chosen sealer of weights and measures.
14: 1: 55.
At a meeting of the towne upon publick notice.
It is ordered that (upon the request ofEnsigne Jno. Everett and
M^Joseph Rock, to have liberty to stop carts from passingthrough
the paved lane by their houses) the}^ shall have libert}' to sett up
posts att each end of the lane till the towne or select men see cause
to lay itt open.
Itt is ordered that the select men shall have liberty to lay outt a
peece of Ground outt of the townes land, which the}' give to the
building of a house for instruction of the youth of the towne.
9
 - 153 - 
130             City Document No. 46.
31: 1:  1656.
Att a meeting of "VVm. Brenton, Tho. Marshall,  Capt.  James
OUivei", Wra. Paddy, Sam. Cole, Peter Olliver, and Wm. Davis.
James Everill is  enjo3'ned forthwith to secure the sellar where
tho old meeting house stood, from such inconveniences as otherwise
ma}' accrew.
Att the request of Henry Phillips, butcher, in the behalfe of him-
self and the neighbourhood, to  repayre the  lane leading behind
his house to the spring, itt is  ordered that the surveyors shall, att
the townes charge, repayre the one halfe of that lane for a foote
way.
Wm. Pearse  is  admitted  an inhabitant,  James Nabors and
Michaell Wills being bound in a bond of ten pounds to secure the
town from charge.   (Wittnes our hands.)
Tho. Reade is admitted an inhabitant, Lieut. Wm. Hudson being
bound in a bond of twenty pounds to secure the towne from charge.
(Wittnes my hand.)
Whereas Joseph Rock hath sett a fence into the streete betweene
his dwelling house and M''. Lyndes house, itt  is  ordered that hee
shall remoove the said fence within a weeke, on poenalty of twenty
shillings, and so from weeke to weeke till removed, and to sett itt
to range from the corner post of the house that hee lives in, to the
corner of M^ Lyndes house in a straight line.
[135.]  Itt is ordered that Wm. Ireland and Aron Way shall
bee allowed fourty shillings for the country- highwa}' that is laid out
through their land att Rumny JMarsh.
The peece of land formerly granted to Edward Greenliff by the
spring is lett to Mathew Coy, from yeare to yeere while the towne
pleases, for two shillings, sixe pence, per yeare for the schooles
use.
Richard Pittman is fined twenty shillings for nott giving security
to save the towne from charge, and to depart the towne forthwith
if  hee put nott in security.
As also to secure his chimney from danger within a day on pen-
alty of twenty shillings.
James Nabors is fined five shillings for his chimney flaming outt.
Itt is ordered that the gallowes shall  bee removed to the next
knole of land before the next execution.
Itt is agreed that Capt. James Olliver shall  have forty shillings
a yeare for three yeares to provide a bull for the townes use winter
and summer.
Itt is ordered that a third part of the last rate bee leavied bj' the
Constables for a County rate.
28: 2: 56.
Att a meeting of M'' AVm. Brenton, Sam. Cole, Wm. Paddy,
James Olliver, Peter Olliver, Tho. JMarshall, and Wm. Davis.
It is ordered that ten pounds be paid to Rich. Gridley for lime
and brickes d'd* att Fort-hill, which being paid hee is to Free the
towne from any farther demands.
•Delivered.
 - 154 - 
Boston Town Records, 1656.           131
Martin Stebbiu hath license to draw bearc this j'eare ensuing.
Jno. Poole is admitted an inhabitant.
26: 3: 56.
Att a meeting of Tho. Marshall, Wm. Paddy, Sam. Cole, Peter
OUiver, and James Olliver.
Walter Menyis fined ten shillings for receiving an inmate.
Tho. Leader is  appointed to 3'oke and ring all  swine, and to
returne  the names of them that refuse to yoke and ring to M^
Cole.
Wm. Pollard is  chosen Shepheard for this yeare, and to have
8cl. per sheepe for all sheepe of a yeare old and upwards.
Wm. Beamsley is fined 10s. for leceiving an inhabitant without
license.
[126.]  28: 5: 56.
Att a meeting of M"". Wm. Brenton, Tho. Marshall, Sam. Cole,
Peter Olliver, James Olliver, and Wm. Davis.
Tho. Harding is admitted an inhabitant, Walter Merry and Tho.
Munt being bound in 40Z. to save the towne harmless from charge.
Itt is ordered that the north battery bee forthwith repaired.
If any young person or others bee found without either meeting
house, idling or playiug during the time of publick exercise on the
Lords day, itt is ordered that the constables or others appointed
for that end shall take hold of them and bring them before au-
thority.
25: 6: 56.
Att a meeting of M^ Wm. Brenton, Tho. Marshall, Sam. Cole,
Peter Olliver, Capt. James Olliver, and Wm. Davis.
Gabriell Tetherley is admitted an inhabitant, M''. Brenton security
for him in a bond of 201.
Whereasgreatt annoyance accrewes to the towne and inhabitants
aboutt the dock, by the butchers throwing garbidge into the dock
and over wharfes.  Itt is  therefore ordered that henceforth such
butchers as have nott conveniences of their owne to  dispose of
their beasts entrails andgarbidg, shall have liberty, and are hereby
ordered, to cast such things that so^shall anno}^ into the millcreeke
over the draw-bridg, and in no other place upon the poenalty of
twenty shillings for every defect.
Whereas Richard Webb, Shoemaker, hath lately erected a frame
of a house coining three foote or thereaboutts upon the townes
land, wee hereby declare that the said Kieh. Webb hath so erected
the said frame withoutt the consent of the select men.
Jno. Parker is admitted an inhabitant, and Rich. Greene bound
in 20/. bond to save the towne free from charge.
[127.]  29: 7: 56.
Att a meeting of Tho. Marshall, Mr. Sam. Cole, Wm. Paddy,
James Olliver, Peter Olliver, and Wm. Davis.
Robt. Doutch admitted an inhabitant, and Walter Merry and
Tho. Munt bound each in 20/. to secure the towne from charge.
 - 155 - 
132             City Document No. 46.
William Whittwell hath his  license  to draw beere renewed for
the yeare ensuing.
Capt.  Tho.  Savage hath liberty to make sellar  doores before
his new house betweene the draw bridg and the conduitt, to come
out 3 foote  from his house and no more, except they lye  flatt
and covered sufficiently with plank, and that nott to exceede two
foote.
Itt is ordered that fifty shillings shall bee allowed to Isaac Culli-
more for worke done att the Battery.
29: 8: 56.
Att a meeting of Tho. Marshall, Sam. Cole, Wm. Padd}^, James
Olliver, Peter Olliver, and Wm. Davis.
Itt is ordered that there shall l)ee a pound sett upp by the Con-
stable att Rumny marsh, for which hee is  to pay outt of the rate
to bee leavied this yeare.
Itt is  ordered that  sixteene  pounds bee paid to  Capt. James
Olliver, Peter Olliver, Wm. Padd}', and Wm. Davis for so much
disbursed b}' them for the repayring the north battery.
26: 9: 56.
Att a meeting of Wm. Brenton, Wm. Paddy, Tho. Marshall,
James Ohiver, Sam. Cole, Peter Olliver, and Wm. Davis.
Itt is  ordered that elder Pens rate  shall bee taken of and dis-
charged with the Constables.
There is  this day a rate for  towne and countr}'  and coUedge
coiiiitted  to the Constables  to bee leavied to  the value of  two
hundred eiglity eight pounds, sixteene shillings, nine pence.
[128.]  29: 10: 56.
Att a meeting of Wm. Brenton, Thomas Marshall, Sara. Cole,
Wm. Paddy, James Olliver, Peter Olliver, and Wm. Davis.
Itt is agreed that att the next generall court motion bee made by
our Deputyes that the line  betweene Boston and L^un may bee
determined by the said court.
Goodman Wales hath 6s.  abated of his  rate for his yeare in
regard of his povert}'.
Itt is  agreed that the next day of our meeting some time bee
spent to consider of Capt. Kea^^ne's will in respect of the legacyes
given to the towne.
Itt is ordered that care bee taken to pay Rich. Gridley for build-
ing the schoole house chimny.
25: 11: 56.
Att a meeting of Wm. Brenton,  Tho. Marshall,  Sam.  Cole,
Peter Olliver, James Olhver, Wm. Paddy, and Wm. Davis.
Upon the pernsall of Capt. Keayne's will respecting the legacyes
given to the towne, itt  is agreed that forthwith the executrix and
overseers of the said will bee advised with concerning the said
legacyes withoutt delay.
Itt  is agreed upon the complaint against the  son of Goodwife
 - 156 - 
Boston Town Records, 165G-7.          133
Saxnon living withoutt a calling, that if sliee dispose nott of him
in  some wa^' of employ before  the next meeting, that  then  the
townesmen will dispose of him to some service according to law.
Itt is ordered that notice bee given to Mathew Barnes to secui'e
the mill bridge by a sufficient  fence of fonre foote high, and that
within 6 dayes, on poenalty of twenty shillings.
Jno. Andrew on consideration hath 6s.  3rf.  abated outt of his
rate, which the Constables are to allow.
Robert Harris of Muddy River, in  consideration of two high
wa3-es taken outt of his land, hath 4 acres of land granted him
outt of the townes wast land most convenient for him, and M"".
Peter Oliver is  ordered to lay itt  outt.
[129.]  23: 12: 56.
Att a meeting of Wm. Brenton, Thos. Marshall, Wm. Paddy,
Sam. Cole, Peter Oliver, James OlUver, and Wm. Davis.
Frary admitted an inhabitant.
The Constables of Boston are discharged of a rate comitted to
them to bee leavied for the towne. Country, colledge, and powder,
to the sum of two hundred eighty eight pounds, sixteene shillings
and nine pence for this present yeare, as per their account under
their hands.
Whereas a tract of land, as by plott drawne cont. one thousand
fifty  seven acres, is  lett  to Moses Payne of Braintree for foure
pounds, foure shillings  per annum, for ever, as by former agree-
ment, and that there is a vacant peece left outt which is convenient
to bee included that the line  may run  streight,  itt  is  therefore
agreed that the said vacant land shall be lett him for sixe shillings
per annum, to be added to the other foure pounds, foure shillings,
so the whole is  41.  10s. per annum, to bee paid the first  of first
moneth yearely.
There is  lett to Capt. James Johnson all the wast land belong-
ing to the towne on the southside of the Creeke by M"". Winthrop's
warehouse and adjoyning to the land already lett to Ben Ward, to
enjoy the same for ever, hee paying foure ponnds, ten shillings per
annum for ever to the schoole of Boston, alwayes reserving high
waves through the same land for the townes use, and the said laud
to bee bounded on all parts and to. bee specifyed in covenants ex-
pressly, and the land to bee bound for security of payment, which is
to bee paid every first of the first mo, and to begin the first March,
57,  on forfeiture.
Itt is  ordered that Tho. Walker shall bee allowed forty shillings
for brickes and lime att the fort.
Itt is ordered that Rich. Woody shall bee allowed thirty shillings
outt of the  next towne rate  for  whatt hee disbursed upon the
bridge by M"". Winthrops warehouse.
Wm. Blantau hath part of upland his  barne stands on lett to
him for two shillings,  foure pence per annum during the townes
pleasure.
[130.]  9:1: 5G-57.
Att a generall townes meeting upon publick notice from house
to house there were chosen for the yeare ensuing.
 - 157 - 
134             City Document No. 46.
Deputycs for the Gencrall Court, Capt. Tho. Savage and Capt.
Tho. Clarke.
Selectmen, Deac. Tho. Marshall, M^ Wm. Breuton, M^ Wm.
Paddy, ]\r. Sam. Cole,  Ensigne Jos.  Scotto, Ensigne Jno. Hull,
and Wm. Davis.
Constables, for the towne, Nat. Adams, Nat. Williams, Amos
Richardson, Jno. Collins.
Rumny Marsh, James Pemberton for Constable.
Muddy River, Thomas Gardiner for Constable.
Surveyors for high wayes, Wm. Beamsley, Wm. Blantan, Jno.
Peirce, Henry Duglas, and Sam. Bennett att Rumny marsh.
Clarkes of the Markett, Sargt. Barrett, and Sargt. Jackson.
Sealers of leatlier, Wm. Courser* and Samuell Norden.
Packers of fish and meat, Jno. Cunny and Wm. Dinsdale.
Itt is  ordered that the paved lane b}'  M^ Shrimptons bee laid
open, and no more shutt up.
Capt. Savage, M^ Stodard, M^ Howchin, and M^ Ed. Hutchin-
son, sen., are chosen a cohiittee to consider of the modell of the
towne house, to bee built, as concerning the charge thereof, and
the most convenient place, as also to take the subscriptions of the
inhabitants to propagate such a building, and seasonably to make
report to a pablick townes meeting.
M^ Hezekiah Usher is chosen Commisioner to carry in the votes
for magistrates and County Treasurer to the Couut^^ meeting.
It is ordered that in case Nat. Williams take a journey for Eng-
land before his yeare bee outt, that then the towne will choose
Constable in his roome.
[131.]  10: 1: 56-57.
Att a meeting of Tho. Marshall, M^ Wm. Brenton, M'. Sam.
Cole, Ens. Jos. Scotto, Ens. Jno. Hull, and Wm. Davis
Wm. Davis is chosen Tresurer and Recorder.
Joshua Scotto is chosen Sealer of weights and measures.
Leiut. Fisher.
After due respects premised, by these wee giVe you to under-
stand, that whereas a sum of moneys to the value of twenty pounds
was by the towne of Boston delivered to your predecessour, M"".
Sam. "Olliver,  and the  same since acknowledged (by bond- under
hand) from Lydia, your wife, and the rent of which being due for
the space of sixe ^-eares past.  Thetownes occasions calling for such
rents  and debts, wee hereby make our request to you, that you
would please to take some speedy course to  satisfy our expecta-
tion, and lett us heare a few wordes from you that so wee may nott
by any such neglect of yours expose ourselves to any appearance
of neglect of that trust comitted to us by the towne ;    thus hoping
of 3-our care and reall endeavour to answer our desires (vizt., for
the returning unto the towne both principle and rent, which rent is
forty shillings per annum) wee shall waite your answere and rest.
AVhereas divers inhabitants among us have formerly had grants
* The name of Robert Reynolds is stricken out here.
 - 158 - 
Boston Town Records, 1657.           135
of land for great lotts  lying  att  INIount WoUaston and  Muddy
River, which sayd hinds luxve long since beene laid outt unto them,
the sajd lands lying in coinon with the townes lands and Ijound-
ing upon the sayd lands.   Itt is ordered that all  such persons (the
townes occasions now calling for the improvement of their owne
wastland and being aboutt to dispose of the same) shall, upon the
third day in the second month next ensuing, goe  their bounds
betweene theirs and the townes bounds, with those deputed  by
the towne thereunto, and that upon the poenalty prefixed by law,
fol.  4.
Itt is further ordered that all  such persons as can lay an}' just
clayme to any lands or lotts in the foresayd places granted to them
bythe towne, but nott yett laid outt, they shall repayre to the select
men, betweene this and the 2Gth of the next month, and make
good their clayme and title to the same upon the penalty of for-
feiture of the sayd grants.
[133.]  26: 1: 57.
Att a meeting of Tho. Marshall, Sam. Cole, John Hull, Wm.
Davis, and Wm. Davis (sic).
George Burrill,  Cooper, is  fined  ten  shillings  for intertaining
John Gilbert into his family- withoutt consent of the towne.
30: 1:  1657.
Att a meeting of Tho. Marshall, Sam. Cole, Wm. Padd^', Jos.
Scotto, Jno. Hull, and Wm. Davis.
Ralph Hutchinson is  fined ten  shillings  for intertaining  Jno.
Gilbert into his family, withoutt the townes mens consent.
Whereas, the coinou is att times much ano^'ed b}' casting stones
outt of the bordei'ing lotts, and other things that are offensive :   Itt
is  therefore  ordered that if  any person shall hereafter  any way
anno3' the coinon by spreading stones or other trash upon itt,  or
la3' an}' carrion upon itt,  every person so offending shall bee fined
twent}' shillings.
Wm. Ireland is  appointed pounder att Rumney marsh for this
yeare ensuing.
Itt is ordered that henceforth  no persons shall  have liberty to
keepe shops within this  towne, or,sett upp mnnufactures, unless
they bee first admitted inhabitants into the towne.
John Vyall, upon petition to  draw beere till  the  29th of Sept.
next, is referred to the county court for license, and is  approved
for that end.
Jno. Hart is fined ten shillings for intertaining Jno. Gilbert into
his family, withoutt the townesmens consent.
Capt.  James Olliver,  Ensigne  Scotto  and  Ensigne  Hull  are
appointed to the perambulation of the wast lands and the lotts laid
out att Braintree.
Elder Colbron, Peter Olliver, M^ Wm. Paddy, Jacob Eliott are
desired to attend the same service att Muddy river, and likewise
the laing out of the Highway to Watertowne Mill.
M"".  Wm. Paddy and Ensigne Scotto are apijointed  to  trcaet
with Leiut. Fisher concerning the  debt due to the towne, and to
make a full conclusion with him concerning the same.
 - 159 - 
13G             City Document No. 46.
[133,]  Whereas there was 400 acres of land long since granted
to M''. S:im. Maverick and by him assigned unto Ed. Bendall.  And
whereas Leiut. AVni. Pliilips appeared before us as Attourney unto
the sayd Edw. Bcndall, presenting unto us a Coppy of the former
grant.   Itt is ordered that the said 400 acres ma}' bee laid outt for
him, provided (itt appeare nott that the sayd land hath beene for-
med}' laid  outt) :      itt  ma}' nott  entrench  upon an}-  small  lotts
either laid outt or to bee laid outt.
Clement Gross is  allowed to draw beere till  the 29th of Sep-
tember next, if the county court consent thereto.
Wm. Pollard is chosen pounder for this yeare.
* Notice given both to  Watertowu and Cambridge, that they
might depute some to Joyne with ours deputed to lay out a high
way from Mudy river unto Watertown mill, and upon the 21 of
this  2d mo. it was (by partys deputed by the sayd Towns) per-
formed.  The sayd way is 4 Rod in Breadth and directed by markt
trees.
Also notice given unto the Town of Brantrey that if  any among
them had any grants of land from this  Town, they might make
Claime of them by the 2Gth of this 2d mo, upon forfeture of such
grants if neglected.
And likewise if any of their Inhabitants had bought any lotts
or otherwise possessed them by gift, that bordered upon any part
of our  CoiSon  lands, they should be redy to goe  their  bounds
with us upon the 21st of this instant.
24: 2: 57.
At a meeting of M^ Willra. Brenton, M^ Tho. Marshall, M^
Sam. Cole, M^ John Hull, and AVilliam Paddy.
It  is  ordered that  M''.  Ed.  Hutchinson,  Samuell Benit,  and
John Tuttell shall goe the bound line betweene Maiden and Rum-
ney Marsh, and Lin and Rumney Marsh.
There was also notice given unto the select men of Maiden, and
likewise off  Linn, that they might meet with ours above specified
upon the  11th of the 3d mo. next at the House of M^ Samuell
Benett, at 7  a clock in the morning.  Maiden upon the 11th, and
Linn upon the 12tli day of the sayd month.
Moreover it was desired in our Letter to Linn that they might
take order about the country high way nearunto M'. Saml. Bennitts
house and dispose it soe as may be most Convenient.
27 of 2^ :     57.
Att a meeting of M^ Wm. Pady, Tho. Marshall, Samuell Cole,
and John Hull.
Richard Wayis admitted into the Town, provided that AronWay
doe become bound in  the sum of twenty pound sterll. to free the
Town from any charge that may accrew to the town b}' the said
Rich*^. or his family.
I, Aron Way, doe heerby engadge my selfe, myheires, executors,
*The marprinal  note  says, "6 of 2d.  High way laid out from Muddy River to
Watertown Mill."
 - 160 - 
Boston Town Records, 1657.           137
«S:c., Tinto the selectmen of the Town of Boston and their suoces-
sours in the suui of twenty pound stt-i'll.  in behalle of my Brother,
Richard Way, and liis family, that they shall  not be chargeable
to the Town, and hereunto set my hand.
Aron X Way.
his niarke.
Richard Smith is  admitted into  the Town, being Coiiiended to
the Town by M^ Jno. Willson, senr., provided that Henry Blague
and John Pease, become bound to the Town in the sum of twent}'
pounds sterll.
We, AVilliam  Blague  and John Pease, doe heerby bind our
selves, our heires, executors, &c., joyntly and severally in  the full
snin of twenty pound sterll. nnto the select men of Boston and
their successors, to secure the Town from all  charge from tyme to
t3'me from the said Rich*'  Smith and his family :    and hereunto put
our hands.
[134.]  The 27 of 2d. 1657.
It is ordered that every person  that putt any sheep upon"" the
Coiuou shall pay to the keeper 8d.  for every sheep and 3d. for
every Lamlj.
Edward Blake* is Admitted an Inhabitant, and John Blake is
heerby bound in  the snin of twenty pound sterll. to save the town
from an}^ charge, either from the sa3'd Edward or his family.   And
this attested by his hand.
John Blake.
25: 3: 57.
Att a meeting of Tho. Marshall, Wm. Padd}', Sam. Cole, and
Wm. Davis.
Isaac Cullimore is ordered to secure a  chimney in  his  leantoo
from danger of fire within eight dayes on poenalty of 20s.
Macklin Knight is  ordered to secure his sellar behind his house
within ten dayes on poenalty of twenty shillings.
Ens. Hull and Wm. Davis are appointecl  to  view the  cedar
swampes att Muddy River and to report what they judge themworth
to bee rented forth by the yeare or other wise, as may bee most to
the townes advantage.
29th of 4th, 57.
Att a meeting  of Thomas Marshall, Wm. Pady, Sam. Cole,
Josh. Scottow, John Hull.
Tho. Dinsdell hath liberty granted him to hire a room of Capt.
Tho. Savage.
John Clow, having served an Aprentiship, hath Liberty to fol-
low his Calling in this Town.
Wm. Courser, having liberty granted the last year to set up a
porch, not exceeding foure foot from his now dwelling house, and
desiring the said grant to be recorded, it being owned that he had
Agrant, as afforsaid, it is heerby recorded.
It is ordered that Ensigne Jno. Web shall suply Richard Sanfard
* The name Blague is written and cancelled here.
 - 161 - 
138             City Document No. 46.
with such necesary  support as the little  infant Mary Langham or
the nurse thereoff either have or shall expend, untell the Town take
further order.
George Broome is  Readmitted with Caution of his future good
behaviour.
There is  Let unto Robert Sanderson ALittle 3 square strip of
Land upon the upper end of his owne Garden, Coming from the
upper Corner of Tho. Hunt's pailes uuto the stile of the said Rob-
ert Sanderson, for 18cl. in  mony, to be paicd yearly to the Town
Treasurer, and he to Injo}- this during the Townes pleasure.
M"". Richard Web is heerb}' Enjoyned to clear the highway before
his house within this  twelve dayes, upon the poenalty of twenty
shillings.
James Everell is  heereby Enjoj'ned to take away the heapes of
I^arth Laid upon the high waies, upon any part of the dock, that
soe passengers may not be forced into the dirt in  fowle wether
;
and this is to be done in twenty daj-es, upon the poenalty of twenty
shillings.
[135.]  There is Granted unto Wm. Beamsly and Henry Dug-
less, who are surveighers for the high waies, that there ma}* be ten
pound expended proflltably for the high waj-es at the North End
of the Town, paid out of the Rates of M^ Jno. Richards, M^ Wm.
Pain,* Wm. Beamsly, Richard Benit, Henry Dugless, Alexander
Adams.
There is  Lett unto Isaak  Cullimore A little  peice  of  ground
which is close to the end of his dwelling house, and is there be-
twixt both high waies thirt3' foot, and at the uper way in breadth
fourteen foot and halfe, and Comes to the Lower high way unto
one foot,  in  forme as in  the Margent,t for the Auuall  rent of
three shilling to be duly paid, and this Grant to Continue during
the Townes pleasure.
There is likewise added a little  peice according as is expressed
in the margent, and for the whole, Joseph Belknap, now the pos-
sessor, is to pay eight shillings to the Townes Treasurer every first
of March, the grant to Continue as before during pleasure.
28: 5: 57.
Att a meeting of M^ Wm. Brenton, Tho. Marshall, Sam. Cole,
Wm. Paddj', Jno. Hull, and Wm. Davis.
Deacon Marshall and Ensigne Hull are appointed to gaine liberty
in writing of M^ Seaborne Cotton and his mother to bring water
downe from their hill to the Conduitt intended to bee erected.
Deacon Marshall, Ensigne Scotto and Wm. Davis, and any two
of them are impowered to joyne with any one ortwo of the Commit-
tee to treate and agree with any workman for the erecting of  and
bringing water to the Conduitt intended to bee erected.
Edward Gold hath granted to him foure Rods of ground from the
corner of Wm. Blantans pale by the streete side, to run downe to
the  sea ward as itt  is  this  day staked and bounded, hee paying
foure  shillings  per annum every  29th Septemeber to  the  towne
treasurer, and to enjoy the said land during the towne pleasure.
* Or Perin.                      fIn the margin is a little sketch of the land.
 - 162 - 
Boston Town Records, 1657.           139
M'. Tho. Broughton is fined five shillings  for his chimney being
on fire and fluuiing oiitt.
Ben. Gillam is  fined ten shillings for making a fii-e  upon the
wharfe.
James Baulstone is fined ten shillings for the like offence.
Wm. Foster, seaman, is admitted an inhabitant.
Wm. Duglas is admitted an inhabitant.
Robert Smith, a tailor, is admitted an inhabitant, Deacon Mar-
shall securing the Towue from charge.
[136.]  John Philips is fined ten shillings for entertaining
Stone and his family contrary to order.
Itt is ordered that no butcher shall throw any gutts or garbidg
into the streete, or any place nigh itt,  to the anoyance of passen-
gers or inhabitants, under the poenaltj' of twenty shillings for every
ofience.
31 of 6th, 1657.
Att a meeting of Thomas Marshall, Wm. Pady, Samll Cole,
Josh. Scottow, and Jno. Hull.
Jno. Peirce is  Admitted an Inhabitant upon the Testimony' of
James Evercll and Isaak Colimore.
Jno. Lewis is  ordered to  clear away the dung and matter of
Anoyance by Ms slaughter house, and to  lay noe more neer the
street, or that may be Just Anoyance to Neybours or Inhabitants,
and that by the filth of September.
Graves is fined for his chimnybeingon fire and flaiming out,
and his Landlord for want of A Ladder.
Hugh Stone is admitted an Inhabitant.
Thomas Thayer is admitted an Inhabitant.
J
Christopher Perrust is to deliver unto the Townsmen the deeds
of his land instead of that bill of twenty pounds which the town
received of him, which was for the suppl}- of his wife, iff  he, the
said Perrust, had gone to Jamaca.
Wm. Baker, Robt. Smith, Nath. Woodward, Thomas Sowell,
have Agrant of A parcell of Land ;    the Contents of each man's
parcell is heerafter mentioned, and the  Rent that each man is to
pay.
Wm. Blanton is  ordered to lay some Gravell in the little Lane
that runns from Henry Phillips, his house, unto Peter Duncans.
Henr}' Mason, A Brewer, is admitted an Inhabitant, and Daniell
Turell andJohn Bakerare hereliy mutualy Bound in twenty pound to
preserve the Town from any charge arising from the said Henry
Mason or an}- of his, and hereunto bind themselves by their hands.
Daniel Turell.
John Baker.
M'. Robert Woodmansey is  alowed to have the rent due from
Leiut. Richard Cook for these two 3"eares past.
28 of Septem])er.
Att a meeting of Tho. Marshall, Samuell Cole, Wm.Pady, Josh.
Scottow, and Jno. Hull,
Wm.Whitwell hath granted to him the Townes Consent for the
 - 163 - 
140             City Document No. 46.
Continuance of his Licence to draw beer this 3'eare ensuing, iff the
Court see meet.                                             _
Upon a Motion from our Town deputies and some of the Coifiit-
tee for the Millitia, There is  granted the sum of liffty ])ounds to
finish the worke that is now bj^ the Country left  incompleat at the
Castle.
Gawd}^ James is  Admitted an Inhabitant,  and Capt. Johnson
and Wm. Salter stand engadged to save the Town from charge.
[137.]  5:8: 57.
Att a meeting of Tho. Marshall, Sam. Cole, Wm. Padd}', Jos.
Scotto, Jno. Hull, and Wm. Davis.
There was delivered to  the Constables a countrej' rate of two
hundred twenty three pounds, ten shillings, ten pence.  There was
the same time delivered them a towne rate of two hundred twenty
seven pounds, eleven shillings, eight pence.
26: 8: 57.
Att a meeting of Tho. Marshall, Wm. Paddy, Jos. Scotto, and
Wm. Davis.
Itt is ordered that the constables shall allow Wm. Ware his rates
xipon consideration of his long sicknes and low estate.
There was this day a rate for Rumny Marsh delivered to James
Pemberton for the towne twelve pounds, thirteene  shillings ten
pence, and for the country a rate and a quarter, fifteene pounds,
niueteene shillings.
Itt is ordered that George Burrill shall remoove his timber byhis
shop outt of the high way by the 2d of the next mo., on penalty of
twenty shillings.
30: 9: 57.
Att a meeting of M^ Wm. Bi-enton, Tho. Marshall, Sam. Cole,
Wm. Brenton (sic),  Wm. Paddy, Ens. Scotto, Ens. Hull,  and
Wm. Davis.
Itt is ordered that the Constables shall pay foure shillings, sixe
pence  to Wm. SpoweU for looking to the boyes att the meeting
house.
Itt is ordered that twelve shillings, sixe pence bee paid to Wm.
Salter for keeping Christopher Holland's wife five weekes.
Whereas M''.  Sam. Cole hath intertained Elizabeth Knap into
his house contrary to order of the towne, and the said Elizabeth
3'ett  remaynes in this towne, itt is ordered that in case the said
Elizabeth proove to  bee chargeable to the towne, such  charges
bee required of M^ Cole from time to time as first receiveing her.
Itt is  ordered that Philip Curtis bee paid twenty shillings for
killing a wolfe att Muddv river the last winter.
[138.]  Whereas there is a parcell of land upon Long Hand of
the townes, bounded b}' Walter Merryes lott and the Easterne end
of the said Hand, containing two acres more or less ;    The said two
acres of land so bounded is lett to Wm.Winburne for ever, paying
a bushel of merchantable barl}' malt yearely to the schooles use,
every first  day of March, the first payment to bee made the first
 - 164 - 
Boston Town Records, 1657.           141
of March, which will bee in  the j^etire  1G58, and the said land to
bee security for payment of the said sum.
Whereas severall yeares rent were due from Joseph Wormall for
land of the townes which was lately in  the  possession of Capt.
Savage, itt is ordered that the one halfe of the said rent bee abated,
and the other paid by Capt. Savage to the townes use.
Itt is agreed with Capt. Savage that for the preserving the fence
aboutt the burying place antl  maintaining the fence, in good con-
dition from time to time, hee shall enjoy the use of said ground
for twenty yeares, leaving the sayd fenpe in good repayer att the
end of the tearme of twenty yeares.
29: 10: 57.
Atta meeting of ]\r. Wm. Brenton, Sam. Cole, Wm. Paddy, Ens.
Scott, Ens. Hull and Wm. Davis.
Richard  Seward is  admitted  an inhabitant,  and Nat.  Fryar
bound in a bond of twenty pounds to secure the toAvne from charge.
Whereas liberty was granted to M"". Bushnell and M''. Glover to
sett up a pump and to repayre the well.   Itt is  ordered that in
case any of the neighbours refuse to contribute to the charge of
the sayd pump and well, itt  shall bee in the power of those that
have disbiu'sed monies for the same, to deny any others fetching
water att the pump.
Derman Mahoone is  fined twenty shillings for intertaining two
Irish women contrary to an order of the towne, in  that case pro-
vided and is to quitt his house of them forthwith att his perill.
25: 11: 57.
Att a meeting of Wm. Brenton, Tho. Marshall, Sara. Cole, Wm.
Padd}-, Jos Scotto, Jno. Hull, and Wm. Davis.
Itt is ordered that M^ Brenton and Ens. Hull shall view a piece
of land by M''.  Raynsford's house, and to make returne of the
quantity and what yearely revenue itt may yield.
Mis. Addington and Rich Woody are fined each 5s. for their
chimneyes firing.
[139.]  Elizabeth Blesdale hath liberty to reside in the towne,
and AVm. Beamsley is  bound in  a bond of twenty pounds to save
the towne from any charge that may arise by her during her said
residence, which is acknowledged by
William Beamsleay.
Richard Taylor is allowed thirty shillings for repaii'ing the clock
for his direction to ring by, and is to have five pounds per annum
for the future, provided hee bee att charges to keepe a clock and
to repayre itt.
For as much as sundry Complaints are made that severall per-
sons have received hurt by boyes and young men playing at foot
ball in the streets ;    these are therefore to Injoyne that none be
found at that game in any of the streets, Lanes, or Inclosures of
this town, under the poenalt}-  of twent}- shiUings for everj* such
offence.
Whereas, much Inconvenience  and burdensome charge  doth
arise to the Town by sundr}^ persons in this town, by buing out of
 - 165 - 
142             City Document No. 46.
servants tvmes and redeeming others  from Engagments, which
persons, cither through Idleness or sickness become unable to help
themselves, and the town therby Envolved in  sundry charges
;
these are therefore to give notice to All Inhabitants and residents
in this Town that shall soe act, that what ever persL»n or persons
they soe sett att Liberty they are to see after their  Imployment,
and to secure the Town from any charge thot might otherwise be
ocasioned by such.
Itt is ordered that the house belonging to the schoole shall bee
repaired as soone as conveniently ma}' bee in the spring.
Itt is ordered that measures of brass bee provided as standards
for the towne and reserved for that use.
Itt is ordered that Francis Smith shall have liberty to sett np a
l)uilding att the west end of the house that was M^ Hanburyes, by
the dock head, to bee eight foote in front,  and next the dock five
foote, for which he is to pin' twent}- shillings per annum, in mony,
and to enjoy itt  during the townes pleasure, and then to  remoove
the sayd building upon legall notice as maj appeare b}'  a larger
deede in this respect.
Itt is ordered that Mis. Welthian Richards shall have liberty to
sett up a pale before her house, foure foote from her house, for
which shee is  to pay live shillings every first of March, in  mony
and to enjoy itt during the townes pleasure.
22: 12: 57.
Att a meeting of Mr. AVm. Brenton, Tho. Marshall, Sam. Cole,
Jno. Hull, and Wm. Davis.
There is Ictt to Ed. Rainsford a peice of ground behind his gar-
den by the water side  adjoyning to his now dwelling house, being
thirty-sixe foote att the end of his fence, forty-five foot by Wm.
Lane's fence, towards the marsh sixteen foote, as in the margent,*
for which he is  to pay two shillings per annum to the towne, and
to enjoy itt during the townes pleasure.
[140.]  Ben. Gillam hath five shillings abated of his fine for
heating a pitch pott on the wharfe.
Edward Robinson is admitted an Inhabitant, and Amos Richard-
son and Nat. Adams, senior, acknowledg themselves bound joyntly
and severally in a bond of twenty pounds to secure the towne from
any charge that may arise  b}'  him or his  family.   Wittnes our
hands this day.
•'
his
Nat. YV Adams, Sen.
marke.
Amos Richisson.
31: 3: 58.
John INIartin is admitted an inhabitant, and Ben. Ward acknowl-
edges himselfe heyres and assignes bound to the towne treasurer,
in a bond of twenty pounds to secure the towne from any charge
that may arise by the foresaid Martin or his family to the said
towne.   Wittnes his hand,
Beniamen Ward.
*In the margin is a small sketch of the land.
 - 166 - 
Boston To^vn Records, 1657-8.         143
Tho Ashley is admitted an inhabitant, and Mr. Tho. Lake, Wm.
Hudson, and Peter Oilivcr bind themselves, he^'res and assignes, to
the towne treasurer in a bond of twenty pounds to secure the towne
from any charge that may arise to tlie towne by the said  Ashley
or his family.   Witnes their hands.*
Will*' Hudson,
Peter Olliver,
Tiio. Lake.
John Peirce is admitted an inhabitant, and Nat. Bishop acknowl-
edges himselfe, heyres and assignes, bound to the towne treasurer in
a bond of twenty pounds to secure the towne from any charge that
may arise by the foresaid Pierce or his famil}'  to the  said  towne.
Witnes his hand.
Natiianiell Bishop.
28: 4: 58.
David Chapin is  admitted  an inhabitant and Isaac  Culliraore
acknowledges himselfe, heyres and assignes bound to the townes
treasurer in a bond of twenty pounds to secure the towne from any
charge that may arise by the foresaid Chapin or his family to the
said towne.  AVittnes his hand.
ISACK CuLLIMORE.
Sarah Brewester is admitted an inhabitant and M"". Wm. Paddy
acknowledges himselfe, heyres and assignes bound to the townes
treasurer in a bond of twenty pounds to secure the towne from an}'
charge that may arise  by the said Brewster or her family to the
said towne.  Wittnes his hand.
WiLL^^ Paddy.
Walter Salter is Admitted an inhabitant and Beniamin Brisco and
Thomas P^dsell doe binde themselves, heires and assignes to the
Towns Treasui-er in a bond of twenty pound to save the Town from
any charge that may arise from the said Walter or an}^  of  his
family.
Beniamin Brisco,  Thomas Edsell.
[141.] 8 March, 57-8.
Att a generall townes meeting upon publick notice fromhouse to
house, there were chosen for the yeare ensuing upon the townes
service, for Deputyes, Capt. Tho. Clarke and M^ Ed. Hutchinson.
Select men, M^ Tho. Broughton, M"". Wm. Paddy, Ens. Jos.
Scotto,  Mr. Tho. Lake, M"".  Jacob Sheafe, Ens. Jno. Hull, and
Wm. Davis.
Surveyors  of  Highwa3'es,  Tho. Dewer,  Joseph  How, Ralph
Mason, Rich. Carter, and Henry Greene att Rumny marsh.
Clarkes of the Markett, Henry Philips and Jno. Odlin.
Sealers of leather, Wm. Courser and Sam Norden.
Packer offish and meate, Wm. Dinsdale.
Constables, M^ Jno. Richards, Fran. Dowse, Henr}' Powning
and Jno. Blake.
Capt.  James Olliver  is   chosen  Coinissioner  to  receive  the
*This bond is cancelled by lines drawn over it, and in the margin the words, " he
13 departed the towne."
 - 167 - 
144             City Document No. 46.
proxyes for magistrates and County Treasurer, and to carry them
to the shire meeting.
Itt is  ordered that Goodman Cop shall have some land given
him att Braintree, according to the discretion ofthe select men.
9: 1: 57.
Att a meeting of "Wm. Paddy, Tho. Lake, Jacob Sheafe, Jos.
Scotto, and Wm. Davis.
Wm. Davis was chosen Recorder.
Ens. Jno. Hull, Treasurer.
Ens. Jos. Scotto for sealer of weights and measures.
29: 1: 58.
Att a meeting of M"".  Tho. Broughton, M^ Wm. Paddy,  M^
Jacob Sheafe, M\ Tho. Lake, and Ens. John Hull.
There is graunted to Wm. Copp one hundred acres of land att
Braintree, which hee is to lay outt next to some of the lands for-
merly granted.
M"".  Peter Olliver hath liberty to make a Cart bridge over the
Creeke that goes to Ben. Gillams.
Wm. Poliard  hath  liberty to sett upp a porch att his  house
three foote and a halfe before his house, and to enjoy itt during the
townes pleasure.
Robert Blott is appointed to keepe the sheepe for this yeare, and
the owners of all  sheep that are  putt on the coiTion after the 10th
of this month shall pay to the shepheard according to the order last
yeare, and that all  those that shall keepe sheepe on the coihon
shall deliver them to the said shepheard, and if any are found on
the coihon not delivered to the said shepheard the owners shall
pay 2d.  for every sheepe to the shepheard for ever}" daj-es trans-
gression.
[143.] 2:2: 58.
Att a meeting of M^ Tho. Broughton, M^ Tho. Lake, M^ Jacob
Sheafe, Ens. Jno. Hull, M^ Wm. Paddy, and Wm. Davis.
Bird Hand is lett to James Everill and Rich. Wood}" for sixty
yeares,  paying  12d.  silver  or  a  bushell  of salt  every  first  of
March to the ToAvne Treasurer, and in defect of payment att  the
day 2.5.   or two bushells  of  salt,  and  so  \2d.  or a bushell of
salt for every month's neglect,  and the said Hand is  bound for
payment.
Whereas severall parcells of the townes ground is taken up by
sellar doores, which proove accomodal)le to many of the inhabi-
tants, and in time by custome may bee claimed to bee propriety by
the present or future possessours of such houses as enjoy that privi-
ledg.   Itt is therefore ordered that every person that hath or shall
have a cellar doore into any of the streetes of the towne shall pay
twelve pence every first of Alarch to the Towne Treasurer, and in
case of non-payment tlie  Treasurer of the Towne is  impowred to
leavy the same by distress.
AVhereas M''. Hnl)acuck Glover hath sett up severall pillars upon
the townes ground to support his house ;     Itt is  ordered that the
 - 168 - 
Boston Town Records, 1G58.           145
said Habacnck Glover shall pay twelve pence for every such pillar
so erected, ever}- first of March to the Towne Treasurer.
Whereas divers offences arise through defective fences, and dif-
ferent apprehensions of the sufficienc}' of fences betweene proprie-
tors ;   Itt is therefore ordered that all outside fences aboutt pastures
or cornl'eilds  shall bee substantially fenced, either with five rayles,
or posts and pales, or sufficient stone walls, or other wise, accord-
ing to the judgment of the select men ;    and that all  partitionall
fences betweene lott and lott shall be ordered by the select men, in
case of the disagreement of the proprietors ;     and in case any dam-
age arise to others, b}- the defect of fences, the party whose fence
is  defective shall pay all  damages, as shall bee adjudged by the
select  men or any deputed by them upon +Jie  complaint of any
damaged.
Itt is ordered that demaund bee made of Leiut. Turner for a high
way from Elder Pen's to centr}' hill ;    according to a former order
of towne.
There is let  unto Leiut. Wm. Hudson the Lane between Elder
Pen and ]VT. Willson's Garden, during the Townes pleasure, he
paying ten shillings in  mony everie first of March to the Townes
Treasurer, and to secure it that it may be ready for passage of Horse
and foote, without Interruption.
[148.]  Whereas by long and sad experience very many and
greatt damages have accrued to this towne b}^ swine, besides the
many dangers that children have beene in of loss of life and limb,
and elder people also of greatt hurt, by the unrulines and raven-
ousnes of swine, and nottwithstanding the law in that case provided
by the  Gen. Court that  requires  the  making and constituting
effectuall orders to  prevent all  harmes b}' swine.   And although
j'earel}' endeavours have beene to  attaine  the end aforesaid and
yett fruittles.
Itt is therefore ordered that henceforth every inhabitant in this
towne that shall keepe any swine within this towne after the first of
the next month they shall constantly keepe up such swine in their
owne ground.  And in case any swine in any part of this towne,
outt of the owner's lands, the owner of such swine shall pa}^ for
every such defect two shillings, sixe pence to the Townes Treas-
urer, for the townes use, to be leavied by warrant under his hand,
or an}' other of the select men, to the constable.   And to the end
this order may nott bee frustrated, itt shall bee lawfull for (and is
desired of) every one to inform of the breach of this order, and
shall have liberty to impound such swine, for which the one halfe
of the fines shall bee allowed to the enformer or impounder.
And nottwithstanding the aforesaid order of keeping upp swine,
yett shall so keep them up to the anoyance of any neighbours or
travellers through the coiTion streetes or high wayes, upon the fore-
said pcEualty for every offence, after notice given them by any of
the select men.
26 :     2 :    58.
Att a meeting of M^ Wm. Paddy, M^ Tho. Lake, M^ Jacob
Sheafe, Ens. Jos. Scotto, Ens. Jno. Hull, and Wm. Davis.
 - 169 - 
146             City Document No. 46.
Ralph Roote is appointed to keepe tlie Cowes this 3-eare ensuing,
and to have 2s. Gel.  per head for every cow.
Itt is  ordered that Jno. Marshall goe through the towne to view
whether every house is  supplied with a ladder according to order
of towne, and to returne the names of such as are defective.
Itt is ordered that nine pounds, eight shillings bee paid to Wm.
Cotton for mending the high wa}'.
Itt is ordered that Capt. Walden shall have liberty to sett upp
two pillars under his porch, and to pay two shillings every first of
March, in mony, to the Towne Treasurer.
[144:.]   Whereas Jno. Conney is  aboutt to burne brickes in
his  lott  behind his  house, and ver}' neare  other  houses, Itt  is
ordered that hee shall not proceede in burning any brickes in that
place.
Capt.  James Olliver,  Ens. John Webb, Nat. Williams, Jacob
Eliot, Tho. Gardiner, and Jno. Kenriek are appointed for the per-
ambulation betweene Roxbury and Cambridg.
31: 3: 58.
Att a meeting of  M^ Tho. Broughtou, M'. Wm. Paddy, Ens.
Jos. Scotto, Ens. Jno. Hull, M'". Jacob Sheafe, M^ Tho. Lake, and
Wm. Davis.
Jno. Peirce is admitted an inhabitant.
Esdras Read is admitted an inhabitant.
Capt. Jno. Cnllick is admitted an inhabitant.
Tho. Ashley is admitted an inhabitant.
Jno. Martin is admitted an inhabitant.
Whereas Jno. Conny was prohibited to burne brickes in his lott
behind his house, and yett uottwithstanding hath presumed to sett
his kilne, Itt is ordered that in case hee fire the kilne hee shall pay
ten shillings a day as a fine  during the fire  being in itt ;     And if
after the burning the kilne now sett hee presume to sett another
kilne or kilnes and fire  itt, the former fine shall then bee doubled
upon him.
Whereas by experience itt is  found that the liberty of making
cellar doores into the streetes (though acomodable to the owners)
proove ver}- disadvantagious to passengers in their travell to and
fro, whereby they are forced to difflcultyes uott a few, Itt is there-
fore ordered that every cellar doore that opens into any streete of
the towne shall be cutt off two foote att the lower end of the doore,
and laid flatt with a planke, or else paved six foote withoutt their
cellar doores. and this to bee done by tlie first of October next, on
the poenalty of twelve pence a weeke for every weekes neglect
after the day proefixed.
Itt is ordered that what marishes about this neck cannott bee fed,
and are capable of mowing, shall bee lett outt for mowing by the
To'vne Treasurer for the  townes use.   As also  to  improove the
Cedar swamp att Muddy river for what grass maybee cutt therein.
24: 4: 58.
Att a meeting of M''. Wm. Paddy, M'. Tho. Lake, M^ Jacob
Sheafe, Ens. Jos. Scotto, Jno. Hull, and Wm. Davis.
 - 170 - 
Boston Town Records, 1658.          147
Martin Stebin is allowed to draw beere for a yeare provided hee
provide a meet person to take care of that employment.
29: 4: 58..
Att a meeting of M*".  Jacob Sheafe, M^ Tho. Lake, Ens. Jos.
Scotto, Ens. Jno. Hull, M"". Wm. Paddy, and Wm. Davis.
David Cliapin is admitted an inhabitant.
Sarah Brewster is admitted an inhabitant.
[145.]  Whereas many children and others  are exposed  to
many dangers by Carts,  either bj-  being  left  carelessly in the
streetes Avithont their drivers, or else by the Carters riding' through
the towne in their  Carts, Itt is therefore ordered that henceforth
all  horse-carts shall bee led by the carters with a raj'ne, and shall
nott be left  loose in any streete, butt shall bee tyed to some place
where they may not break loose.   And itt is further ordered that
no other Carters shall  bee permitted to ride in their Carts, when
they drive through the towne, nor leave their oxen standing loose
in any streete ;    And in case any shall  bee scene to act contrarj- to
this order, they shall  pay two shillings for every such offence, and
this order to take place upon every Cart that shall come to this
towne after due publication.
The Cedar swamp att Muddy river is lett to Ralph IMason his
heyres and assignes for fifty yeares next ensuing, after the first of
March next, in consideration whereof, hee shall pay yearly every
first of Marchfourty shilUngs in wheate and pease proportionately
;
and hee is to pay fourt}' shillings for this sulner, and a fayre livery
Cupboard for the towne house.
AVhereas many careless persons carry fire  from one house unto
another in  open fire pans or brands  ends, by reason  of  which
greatt damage may accrew to the towne ;    It is  therefore ordered
that no person shall have liberty to carry fire  from one house to
another, without a safe vessell to secure itt  from the wind, upon
the poenalty of ten shillings to bee paid bj- everyparty so fetching,
and halfe so much by those that permitt them so to take fire.
Whereas there is an order in force for restraint of swine (within
this towne of Boston) from passing the bounds of their owners
styes or fences, which though judged meete to abide as an act,
wherein the good and welfare of this place is  much concerned
;
3-ett considering the present complaints ofmany for want of Corue
to keepe their swine up with, and the unfitness of the season of
the yeare for slaughter ;     And that no just grievance maj' bee to
any by denying the benefitt of grazing in the coiiion this summer
j
Itt is therefore hereby declared that no advantage shall bee taken
against any by force of the present order untill the first of Octo-
ber next, provided their swine bee sufficientl}' j'oaked and ringed as
the law formerly hath provided in that case.  And whereas for the
evadingofthe fines to bee leavied bydistress for trespasses of swine
according to towne order, many have refused to owne their swine,
Itt is therefore ordered hereb3^ that if  no owner shall appeare, the
hoggs trespassing shall bee forfeited to the towne, iif  nott owned,
and both fine and damage done by themto bee satisfyed within one
weeke.
 - 171 - 
148             City Document No. 46.
[146.]  26: 5: 58.
Att a meeting of ]\r. AVm. Paddy, Jacob Sheafe, Jos. Scotto,
Tiio. Lake, Jno. Hull, and AYm. Davis.
Itt is ordered that there bee two houses of easement sett upp
aboutt the dock for the accoinodation of strangers and others.
Itt is ordered that M'. Woodmans3-es house shall bee sutliciently
repayred before winter.
Whereas Ens. Scotto hath erected  a  porch in  part upon the
towncs ground, hee shall pay twelve pence by the 3'eare while hee
enjoyes itt.
29: 5: 58.
Att a  meeting of M^ Wm. Paddy, M"'.  Jacob  Sheafe,  Jos.
Scotto, Tho. Lake, Jno. Hull, and Vim. Davis.
Wm. Pollard and Jos Gridley are chosen executioners of the
order aboutt swine being yoaked and ringed, till  the other order
for shutting up take place, and then for the observance of that
order for this yeare.
12: 6: 58.
Att a meeting of M^ Wm. Paddy, M^ Tho. Lake, Jno. Hull,
and Wm. Davis.
Upon the  complaint  of greatt  anoyance b}'  tan Fatts of M''.
Batts ;    Itt is ordered that hee shall forthwith remoove what ever
offensive upon poenalty of twenty shillings,  and if he transgress
againe in the same kind hee shall pay twenty shillings for ever3^
offence.
29: 7: 58.
Att a meeting of M'. Tho. Broughton,M^ Tho. Lake, ]\P. Jacob
Sheafe, Jos. Scotto, Wm. Davis, and Jno. Hull.
Itt is ordered the Treasurer shall leavy fourty shillings of Jno.
Conny for burning brickes contrary to order.
Also to leavy of James Nash 20s.  for anoyance of the townes
high way.
15: 8: 58.
Att a publick meeting of the freemen Itt was voted that the Gen.
Court bee desired to make a law against publick houses entsrtain-
ment of an)' inhabitants to drink on the night after the Sabbath is
ended.
29: 9: 8.
Att a meeting of I\P.  Tho. Broughton, M"". Jacob Sheafe, Ens.
Jos. Scott, Ens. Jno. Hull, M''. Tho. Lake, and Wm. Davis.
Itt is ordered that the towne Treasurer shall pay to Jno. Mellowes
fifty shillings  which is in full payment for a house and ground pur-
chased of him by the select men of the towne some 3'eares since.
[147.]  John Rodes is admitted an inhabitant.
Itt is ordered that the towne Treasurer pay Jonathan Negus his
house rent for this yeare.
AVhereas lifteene pounds were given by M'. W".Paddy as alegacy
to the poore of the towne, itt  is ordered that the towne Treasurer
shall dispose of the same according to order.
 - 172 - 
Boston Town Kecords, 1658-9.          149
3: 11: 58.
Att a meeting of M^ Jacob Sheafe, M^ Tho. Bronghton, M/.
Tho. Lake, Ens. Jos. Scott, Ens. Jno. Hull, and Wm. Davis.
Itt is ordered that fift}' shillings shall bee allowed to M''. Ilez.
Usher outt of his next ^-eares assessment.
Itt  is  ordered that the Treasurer shall  forthwith provide sixe
substantiall ladders and three iron hookes, as also to gett the leather
bucketts repayred for the townes use,
Ben. Negoos is  fined ten shillings for his  chimny being on fire
twice.
David Faulkner is  fined twenty shillings for intertaining Henry
Terry contrary to a towne order.
Richard Staines is fined five shillings for his chimn}- flaming outt
on fire contrary to a towne order.
31 :     11: 1658.
Att a meeting of Wm. Davis, M'. Tho. Broughton, M^ Tho.
Lake, M^ Jacob Sheafe, Ens. Jos. Scottow, and Ens. Jno. Hull.
Itt is ordered that fourty shillings bee given to the "widow Fur-
nell b}' the Treasurer to relieve her in low condition.
28: 12: 1658.
Att a  meeting of Ens.  Jno. Hull, Jos.  Scottow,  M"".  Jacob
Sheafe, Tho. Lake, and Wm. Davis.
Whereas a high way was laid outt  att  Muddy river,  as b}''  a
record dated June 8th, 1658, through the land of Jno. White, att
Muddy river,  and so b}^  Tho. Gardners to  the farme of  Isaac
Stedman, itt  is  hereby declared that the said way so laid out shall
bee  reputed  the  townes  high  way,  and  the  other way in  the
lane is  hereby relinquished.   And itt shall bee lawful for the said
Jno. White either to fence outt the said high way, or else to sett
up gates such as may bee easj' for opening to travellers, and if
any leave the said gates open att au}^ time, they shall pay five
shillings for every defect, being legally convicted thereof.
[148.]  7:1: 1658-59.
Att a meeting of the Freemen upon publick notice.
Capt. Tho. Savage and ]\P. Anthony Stodard are chosen for Dep-
utyes for the Gen. Court for thej-eare ensuing.
Capt.  James Oliver was chosen  CouTiissioner to  carry in  the
votes for magistrates and Count}- Treasurer.
Whereas formerly itt was a custome among us to make choyce of
Deputyes and all  officers  in  the towne upon the second 2d day in
March yearely. And it  being judged convenient that the Freemen
should meete distinctly as to what concerns them, Itt is therefore
ordered that the select men shall for the future appoint the times of
meeting for the Freemen, distinct from the general townes meetings,
as they shall judge meete.
9 :    4 :    59.
Whereas Jeremy Murrells hath entertained Wm. Robins as a
sojourner into his family, the said Jeremy Murrells doth bind his
 - 173 - 
150             City Document No. 46.
heyres and executors to secure the towne from any charge that may
arise by the said  Robins in  a bond of twenty pounds daring his
abode with him.
his
Jeremy X Muurells.
mark.
[149.]  4:1: 1G5S-59.
Att a Generall townes meeting upon publick notice from house
to house were chosen for the yeare ensuing.
Select men M''. Thos. Broughton, Ens. Jos. Scotto, Ens. Thos.
Lake, Ens. Jno. Hull, M^ Jacob Sheafe, M^ Ilezekiah Usher, and
Wm. Davis.
Constables,  M^ Tho.  Brattle,  M^ Jno.  Jolliff,  M''.  Symon
Lynde, and M"". John Chickley.   James Bill  for  Rumny Marsh,
Winchester for Mudd^- River.
Surveyors of high wayes. Henry Blake, .Tho. Walker, Robt.
Samford, and Ed. Cowell.   Robert Butcher for Rumny Marsh.
Packer of fish and meate, William Diusdale.
Clerkes of the markctt, Sam. Norden, Tho. Baker.
Sealers of leather, Bartholmew Cheevers, William Courser.
Water bayliffs, Alexander Adams, Rich. Gridley.
Itt is ordered that the Instructions formerly given to the select
men, in writing, bee still in  force till  the towne present others to
them.
Itt is ordered that in case of fire breaking outt in any parts of this
towne, which may possibl}^ threaten ruine to a greatt part thereof
iff not seasonably prevented by pulling downe some liouse or houses
to  that end ;     Itt shall therefore bee lawful for the major part of
the  magistrates, Couiissioners, and  select  men, that  shall then
bee present att the fire, or for any three of them mett together, and
two of them concurring, to cause any house, or part thereof, to bee,
puld downe ;     And that whatever house or part thereof bee paid
downe by their order, shall againe bee repayred and made good
by the  towne to  him or them who shall  so have their houses
puld down or impayred ;    and the former order in p. 105 of this
booke is hereby repealed.
Itt is ordered that Leiut. Hudson shall throw open the lane by
Elder Pens ao formerly.
[150.]  The towne this day made demand of a high way to
Gentry Hill, through Leiut. Turner's ground, according to a former
order of towne in  1G40, which is  accordingly to bee made good
by the said Turner.
Upon a debate aboutt the order for cellar doores and the imposi-
tion of 12rf. upon each doore annually.
Itt was voted in the affirmative that the said order shall remayne
in force.
24 :    1 :    1658-59.
Att a meeting of Ens. Jos. Scotto, Jno. Hull, M^ Hez. Usher,
Mr. 'J'ho.  Lake, and Wm. Davis.
Ens. Jno. Hull is chosen Treasurer.
]\r. Tho. Lake, sealer of weights and measures.
Wm. Davis, Recorder.
 - 174 - 
Boston Town Records, 1059.           151
28: 1:  1659.
Att a meetiug of M^ Tho. Bronghton, M'. Tho. Lake, Ens. Jos.
Scottow, Kus. Juo. Hull, M'. Hcz. Usher, and Vim. Davis.
Jno. Dawes is ordered to oversee the youth att the new meeting-
house, that they behave themselves revei'entlr in the time of divine
worship, and to act according to his instructions therein.
Itt is ordered that no person, whether watchman or any other,
shall, att any time, take tobacco, or bring lighted match, or fire
underneath or aboutt any part of the towne house except in case of
military exercise, upon the penalty of twenty shillings for every
such offence, except under covert for the use of the house above.
31: 1: 59.
Att a meeting of ]\P. Tho. Broughton, W.Tho. Lake, M'. Heze-
kiah Usher, Ens. Jno. Hull, and Wm. Davis.
Upon information that Jno. White, of Muddy River, hath stopt
up the high way that was laid outt through his feild  with a stone
wall.
Itt is ordered that the Treasurer shall issue forth a warrant for a
fine of twenty shillings  for his offence, to  bee leavied by distress
1)3"  the Constable, and so from day to day twenty shillings till  the
said White open the way againe.
25: 2: 59.
Att a  meeting of M"". Tho. Lake, M"". Hez. Usher, Ens. Jos.
Scottow, Jno. Hull, and AVm. Davis.
Clement Gross is allowed to draw beere for the 3'eare ensuing, if
the County Court accept.
Whereas Orlnndo Bagley hath intertained Abell Benjamin into
his  famil}'  as a sojourner, the said Orlando doth bind himselfe,
heyres and assignes in twenty- pounds to the townes Treasurer, to
secure the towne from charge that may any way arise by the said
Benjamin.  W^ittnes fiis hand.
Orlando Bagley.
[151.]  Whereasinformation is given of a considerable tract of
meadow and upland belonging to this towne, which lays obscured
under the claime of M''. Cogaus farme in Rumny Marsh.  Now to
the end that the towne might nott loose itts right, nor yett by any
claime of the said towne the said Cdgans just due diminished ;   itt is
therefore ordered that a surve^yor bee speedily sent to measure the
said land, and according to the right due either to towne or person
aforesaid, to sett out the bounds, that the cleare right of the said
Cogan maybee settled on a sure foundation, and the towne advan-
taged to make improovementof what shall appeai'e justly to be their
owne.
5: 3: 59.
Att a meeting of M'. Tho. Lake, M'. Tho. Broughton, Hezekiah
Usher, Jno. Hull, and AVm. Davis.
Richard Gridley is chosen overseer  for the swine, and to leavy
two shillings, sixe peneebydistress for every swine either unyoaked
or unrung.  And itt is hereby declared that the former order for
 - 175 - 
152             City Document No. 46.
shutting up swine is  onely suspended by reason  of  scarcity  of
corne.
Tho. Blott is  chosen Cow keeper for this yeare,  and to have
two shillings, sixe pence for every head.
IG: 3: 59.
Att a meeting of M''.  Tho. Broughton, M"".  Hezekiah Usher,
Jno. Hull, and Wm. Davis.
Francis Easts son is appointed to keepe the sheepe this  yeare,
for which every owner shall pay Gd. for every sheepe, and two
pence for every lamb.
30: 3: 59.
Att a meeting of W. Hez. Usher, M'. Tho.  Broughton,  M'.
Jno. Hull, and Wm. Davis.
Jno. Wakefield is fined twenty shillings for entertaining
,
contrary to the towne order.
Evan Thomas is  fined twenty shillings for entertaining  Tho.
Somes, contrary to a towne order.
Henry Kemble is  fiued twenty shillings for entertaining Wm.
Robins, contrary to towne order.
Itt is ordered that the cellar by the armoury bee laid  under a
fine of twenty shilling^ if not secured from danger b}' the lUth of
the next month, and this to be notifyed to Capt. Francis Norton.
Notice was accordingly given to Capt. Norton the same da}^,
and promise to secure the same cellar.
[152.]  13: 4: 59.
Att a meeting of the inhabitants upon publick notice from house
to house.
Francis Hudson is  chosen a measurer of salt aboard of ships
according to law.
Itt is ordered that the title of the land in M''. Cogans hand shall
be prosecuted by the select men.
Itt is ordered that there shall bee a moderator chosen annually
to  regulate publick towne meetings, and for  this present yeare
Wm. Davis is chosen.
Whereas sundry inhabitants in this towne have  nott  so well
attended to former orders made for the securing the towne from
charge by sojourners, inmates, h3'red servants, journeymen, or other
persons that come for help in physick or ch^rurgery, whereb}' no
litle  damage hath  alread}',  and much more may accrew  to  the
towne.  For the prevention whereof Itt is therefore ordered, that
whosoever of our inhabitants  shall  henceforth receive any such
persons before named into their bowses or employments without
liberty granted from the select men, shall pny twenty shillings  for
the first  weeke, and so from weeke to weeke, twent}' shillings,  so
long as they retaine them, and shall beare all the charge that may .
accrew to the Towne by every such sojourner, journeyman, hired
servt.,  Inmate,  &c.,  received or emploj'ed  as  aforesaid.   Pro-
vided, alwayes, that if any person so receiving any shall, within
fifteene  da3-es, give suflBcient security unto the select men that the
 - 176 - 
Boston Town Records, 1G59.           153
Towne ma}^ be secured from all  charges that ma}- arise  b}-  any
person received, and that the persons so received bee not of noto-
rious evill life and manners, their line abovesaid shall bee remitted
or abated according to the discretion of the select men.  Aud iLt
is further ordered that if after bond given by an}', they give such
orderl}'  notice to the  select men that  the  towne  may bee fully
cleared of such person or persons so received according to law,
then their bonds shall be given in againe.
25: 5: 59.
At a meeting of Ens. Jos. Scottow, M"". Hez. Usher, Ens. Jno.
Hull, Ens. Tho. Lake.
Martin Stebins is licensed to draw beere for this yeare.
L. Robt. Turner is licensed to keepe a house of publick entertain-
ment for the yeare ensuing.
Ens. Hull is appointed to lett  out the "marsh that is fitt  to bee
mowed upon the neck to the best advantage of the towne, to such
as shall bee willing to hire them.
[153.]  26: 6: 59.
Att a  meeting of Wm. Davis, Jno. Hull,  Hez. Usher, Jos.
Scotto, Tho. Lake.
Whereas a  parcell  of  land was formerly lett to  Jno. Shaw,
and is  since  made  over  to  M"".   Symon  Lynde by  the  said
Shaw, Itt is hereby declared that the said Lynde is  reputed the
rentor of the said land from the towne, according to a deed drawn
at Large.
28: 9: 59.
At a meeting of Ens. Jno. Hull, Ens. Jos.  Scottow, Ens. Tho.
Lake, M^ Hez. Usher, and Wm. Davis.
Itt is ordered that Tho. Joy, John Jackson, and HughDrury shall
forthwith survey the mill bridge whether the foundation and timber
worke bee firme, and accordingly to make their returne.
Matthew Barnes is  fined twenty shillings in case the mill bridg
bee nott sufficientl}' secured from damage by the next fift day.
This da}- was coiiiitted  to  the Constables  a country rate for
two hundred sixt}'  pounds, eighte^ne shillings,  for the Country,
and for the towne a rate of two hundred seventy one pounds, six-
teene shillings.
Whereas Ens.  Jos.  Scottow and partners are erecting a new
draw-bridg, there is the same liberty granted to them to cutt or
make use of the  townes high way for  their better accoiiiodation,
provided they make up and keepe in repaire  the  said high way
from time to time, according to a former grant to Wm. Franckliu
and Jos. Scotto, in page 109.
30: 11: 1659.
Att a meeting of Hez. Usher, Jos. Scottow, Tho. Lake, Jno.
Hull, and Wm. Davis.
Wm. Courser is allowed to draw beere the 3'eare ensuing.
Instructions were given to the Water Bayliffes to  cleare  the
 - 177 - 
154             City Document No. 46.
Flatts of all  matters of anoyance by stones, ballast, &c., and to
cleare the ends of the streetes to the said Flatts, on poenalty of
anoyances in the streetes.
Goody Upsall is allowed to draw beere the yeare ensuing.
26: 12: 1659.
Att a meeting of Ens. Jno. Hull, Tho. Broughton, Tho. Lake,
Jos. Scottow, Hezekiah Usher, and Wm. Davis.
[154.]  5: 1. 1659-60.
Att a meeting of the Freemen upon pnblick notice Capt. Tho.
Savage and M"".  Anthony Stodard are chosen  Deputyes for the
Gen. Court for the yeare ensuing.
M''.  Edward Tynge was chosen  Coinissioner  to carry  in the
votes for magistrates and Count}' Treasurer.*
[155.]  12: 1: 1659-60.
Att a generall Townes-meeting upon publick notice from house
to house, were chosen for the j-eare ensuing.
Moderatour, AYm. Davis.
Select men, John Hull, Jos.  Scottow, Tho.  Lake. Wm. Davis,
Hez. Usher, Nat. Williams. Tho. Broughton.
Clerkes of the markett, Joseph Kellog, Tho. Dewer.
Surveyors  of high wayes,  Theoph. Frary, Jno. Peirce,  Tho.
Boj'den, Rich. Way, Wra. Hacy for Rumny JMarsh.
Sealers of leather, Wm. English, Wm. Courser.
Water Bailiffes, Alexander Adams, Richard Gridley.
Packer of meate and fish, Wm. Dinsdale.
Whereas the Constables of Muddy River and Rumnj'Marsh have
nott cleared their accounts with the Towne Treasurer att this day,
there is hereby granted them one month more to effect the same,
which, if longer defended, they ai'e to serve in the place of Constables
another yeare :   butt in case they issue all accounts within a month,
then to bee discharged, nnd to succede them in their places
Constables.   Ben. Child for Muddy River.
Jno. Grover for Rumny Marsh.
In the Towne, Wm. Alford, Jno. Baker, Henr}' Bishop, Augus-
tine Lyndon.
Resolved upon the Question
Whether the contract made by the select men in '56, with Capt.
James Johnson, respecting the Townes wast land in the marish
next Ben. Ward's, should bee in force for ever, itt was voted in the
affirmative.
Itt was voted that the instructions given formerly to the select
men should bee in force still.
Resolved upon the Question
Whether the select men being necessitated to give security to
the overseers of Capt. Keayne's will for his legac^y of £60 to the
use of the poore, should bee secured by the Towne from damage
to their owne estates, or the estates of their successors as select
men, itt was voted in the affirmative.
*There is a wrong entry on this page cancelled at the time.
 - 178 - 
Boston Town Records, 1660.            155
At a meeting of the  selectmen the same daj' Wm. Davis was
chosen Recorder.
Jno. Hull was chosen Treasurer.
Capt. Hutchinson, Jos. Scottow, and Jno. Tuttill are appointed
for peraiiibulation with Maiden.
[156.]  Nat.  WilUams was chosen  sealer  of  weights  and
measures.
2G: 1:  IGGO.
Att a meeting of M''. Tho. Broughton, Ens. Jos. Scottow, Ens.
Jno. Hull, Ilezekiah Usher, Ens. Tho. Lake, Nat. Williams, and
Wm. Davis.
Itt is ordered that Lieut. Hudson shall lay open the high wa\' to
Gentry- Hill l\y this day month, npon penalty of 10s.
Ens. Scottow, Nat. Williams, and Wm. Davis are appointed to
order Herman's fence that stands upon the towne high way.
It is ordered that Matthew Barnes, within one weeke, take in his
fence to the line, npon the poenalty of twenty shillings.
Itt is  ordered that Wm. Waters lay open the high way through
his  garden  to  the mill ward within  a weeke, on the poenalty of
twenty shillings.
Whereas there  was liberty  granted to James Johnson, Tho.
Buttolpli and others,  to make use of a place for  the watering
leather, and to  enjoy the said land during the Townes pleasure ;
and whereas itt is judged convenient to improove the saicl land for
the Townes further beneiitt, Itt is ordered that the said land shall bee
taken into the  Townes hand unless the present possessors bee
willing to allow 40s.-per annum during the Townes pleasure.
30: 2: IGGO.
Att a meeting of M^ Tho. Lake, Jos. Scottow, Hez. Usher, Nat.
Williams, Jno. Hull, Tho. Broughton, and Wm. Davis.
Whereas in the year ('4G) or thereaboutts the select men gave
liberty to Henry Bridgam to sett part of his barke house upon part
of the townes land, and builded a part of his dweUing house npon
the said land, Itt is hereby declared that for and in consideration of
fourty pounds to bee paid by him towards the erecting of an Almes-
house in this Towne, the said land as itt  is  now built  upon and
fenced in (except the fence before.his gate and pitts which is to
bee set straight) ,   is hereby confirmed to the said Henry Bridgam,
his heyres, executors and assignes for ever.
Eobert Blott is chosen Cow keeper.
Jno. Vyall is allowed to draw beare for the yeare ensuing.
Capt. James Johnson is to enjoy the lime-pitts that formerly hee
enjoyed for seven years, paying ten shillings per annum every first
of March.
[157.]  28: 3: IGGO.
Att a meeting of Joshua Scottow, Tho. Broughton, Hez. Usher.
Nath. Williams, and Jno. Hull.
Itt is  ordered that Capt. Oliver shall have the iillowance of £7
in cash in consideration of a barreU of powder granted him for tliia
yeare for saluting of ships.
 - 179 - 
156             City Docuivient No. 46.
25: 4: 60.
Att a meeting of Hez. Usher, Nat. Williams, Joshua Scottow,
Jno. Hull, and Wm. Davis, and Tho. Lake.
Jtt is  ordered that the Treasurer shall pa3- M"". Snelling fivety
foure shillings for ph^'sick administered to Robt. Higgins.
Itt is ordered the Treasurer shall pay for old Besses lodging to
Williams.
30: 5: 60.
Att a meeting of Nath. Williams, Tho. Lake, Hez. Usher, Jno.
Hull, and Wm. Davis.
Itt is agreed with Capt. Tho. Breedon, and his associates, that in
consideration  of their charge of erecting a sufficient wharfe and
high wa}^ before the lane by Jno. Philips house, to bee kept and
maintained by the said undertakers, thc}- shall enjoy the profitts of
the said wharf for the space of twenty-one yeares from the time of
finishing the said work, provided they leave the said wharfe and
high way att the end of the said terme, in good repayre, or else to
pa}' twenty pounds to the towne.   And itt shall bee in the liberty
of any inhabitant to come in as a partner in the same worke within
sixe monthes after the finishing the said worke, they paying their
equall proportion of charge.
20: 6: 60.
Att a Townes meeting upon publick notice from house to house.
Capt. Tho. Clarke was chosen Comissioner  to joyne with the
select men for making the Countrey Rate for this yeare.
Itt is  ordered that the  case respecting the draw-bridge in all
respects bee determined by the Commissioners and select men, or
the major part of them.
AYhereas there was a streete ordered formerh' from M^ Haughes
house to the Gentry Hill, and that Lieut. Robt. Turner hath lately
erected a new house in the said line.
Itt is ordered that the select men with the foure Captaines shall
have power to order the said streete to the best advantage of the
towne.
Itt is ordered that in consideration of the high wayes (that are
laid outt through the marsh left to Capt. Johnson) ,  to bee made and
maintained for ever by the  said  Johnson, and ten shillings per
annum added to the rent for ever, hee shall enjoy the flatts before
the said marsh in proportion with other inhabitants.
[158.]  Whereas itt  is  found by sad experience that many
youthes in  this  Towne, being put forth Apprentices to  severall
manufactures and sciences, but for 3 or 4 ^-eares time, contrary- to
the Customes of all well governed places, whence they are uncapa-
ble of being Artists in their trades, besides their  unmeetenes att
the expiration of their  Apprentice-ship to take charge of others
for government and manuall instruction in their occupations which,
if  nott timely amended, threatens the welfare of this Towne.
Itt is therefore ordered that no person shall henceforth open a
shop in this Towne, nor occupy any manufacture or science, till  hee
hath compleated 21 years of age, nor except hee hath served seven
 - 180 - 
BosTOiSr Town Records, 1660.           157
yeares Apprentice-ship, l\v testimony under the hands of sufficient
witnesses.   And tliat  all  Indentures made betwecne any  master
and ser\-ant shall bee brought in and enrolled in the Towne's Records
within one month after the contract made, on penalty of ten shill-
ings to bee paid bythe master att the time of the Apprentices being
made free.
Itt is ordered that the old burying place shall nott bee broken up
anymore withoutt leave of some two of the select menfirst obtained.
27: 6: 60.
Att a meeting of Wm. Davis, Jno. Hull, Thomas Broughton,
Tho. Lake, Jos. Scottow, Hez. Usher, and Nat. Williams.
AYm. Blantan is  allowed to keepe a house of publick intertain-
ment, if  the court please to consent, for this yeare.
Itt is ordered that Mis. Sheafe shall pay two shillings per annum
for the porch shee hath erected, and not to bnild upon itt, and to
enjo}- itt dnring the Townes pleasure.
At a meeting of the above named selectmen.
Capt.  Tho.  Savage, M^ Rich. Parker, M^ Ed. Rawson, M^
Jeremiah Howchin and M^ Anthony Stodard being ordered att
a publick Townes meeting to determine the  case respecting the
draw-bridg.
Itt is ordered that M'. Scottow shall pull downe the Hutts att the
two ends of the Bridg on the south side, and that by Humphry
Milams, within one month after this  day, on poenalty of twenty
shillings, and so from month to month to pay twenty shilUngs till
they are pulled downe.
[159.]  25 :    8 :    60.
Att a meeting of Jno. Hull, Nat. Williams, Hez. Usher, Tho.
Lake, and Wm. Davis.
Evan Thomas is allowed to keepe a house of publick intertain-
ment for the yeare ensuing.
29: 8: 60.
Att a meeting of M^ Tho. Broughton, Jno. Hull, Tho. Lake,
Hez. Usher, Nat. AVilliams, and Wm. Davis.
AVhereas great  inconveniences may arise by breaking up the
Towne high wayes, to lay dreanes for the accoinodation of severall
familyes,  the  practice  whereof hath  beene taken  up withoutt
license from the select men.
Itt is therefore ordered that no person shall henceforth breake up
any part of the Townes land, in any streetes thereof, for any such
use as aforesaid, withoutt license from the select, on poenalty of
twenty shillings for every such offence.
Itt is  ordered that the Town Treasurer shall pay three pounds
to Mis. Cooke for her services in curing the Spanish Captives.
5: 9: 60.
Att a Townes-meeting upon publick notice from house to house.
Itt is ordered that in the order against footeball playing these
wordes bee  added (inclosures withoutt the owners consent),   folio
139.
 - 181 - 
158             City Document No. 46.
Itt is  ordered  that  the Coinissioners  and select men, or the
major part of them, shall bee impowred to answer M^ Scottowes
Petition aboutt the bridge in behalfe of the Towne.
Itt is ordered that the select men shall ratify and confirme M'.
Henry Webbs land upon Fort hill to his Executors to their proper
use for ever.
Whereas M'. Henrj'' Webb bequeathed £100 to the Towne to
bee improoved for the use of the poore, according to his will, and
to bee reserved to that end from time to time.
Itt is ordered thatthe said £100 bee improoved by the select men
for the end aforesaid in some building titt for that end, and that in
case of fire hapning which may consume itt, the Towne shall reedify
the like fabrick to the end afore said.
[160.]  Itt is ordered that the select men shall have power to
make use of  a piece of ground in the coIITon for  the erecting  an
almes house upon, with suitable accommodation, or to Exchange a
l^iece of the Townes land for a place more convenient.
Itt is ordered that any one of the select men shall have power to
execute the order against gallopers in the strcetes.
Itt is ordered that the old burying place shall bee wholly deserted
for some convenient season, and the new places appointed for bui-y-
ing onely made use off.
31: 10: 60.
Att a meeting of  Jos. Scottow,  Tho. Lake, Hez. Usher, Nat.
Williams, Wm. Davis, and Jno. Hull.
Upon consideration of the greatt expences Ralph Mason and
his associates have beene att already, and are like further to bee att
in subduing the Cedar Swamp att Muddy river, Itt is agreed that
ten yeares shall bee added to their lease upon the same rent men-
tioned therein.
28: 11:  60.
Att a meeting of Hez. Usher, Jos.  Scottow, Tho.  Lake, Jno.
Hull, Nat. Wilhams, and Wm. Davis.
Itt is agreed that Tho. Grub, sen., shall enjoy the pitts by Henry
Bi'idgams, that formerly Tho. Buttolph, sen., possessed, hee paying
rent in proportion with Capt. Johnson, and to enjoy them for seven
3^eares.
In reference to the accounts of  Tho. Joy and partner for the
building of the  towne house, stayre cases  and Conduit, and the
compleating of the said w^orke, Itt is ordered that the Treasurer shall
pa}' to the said Joy sixe hundred and eighty pounds (deducting
what hath beene already paid) outt of the Treasury or next Towne
rate ;   whereb}- all  contracts made with the said Jo}^ are performed
as per his owne hand to a writing of this date.
25: 12: 60.
Att a meeting of Nat. Wilhams, Hez. Usher, Tho. Lake, Jno.
Hull, Wm. Davis, and Jos. Scottow.
Wm. Ballendine is fined ten shillings for breaking up the high way
withoutt leave to lay a dreane.
 - 182 - 
Boston To^\'N Records, 1660-61.         159
[161.]  Whereas the order bearing date 25 :    6 :     56, prohibitts
onely Butchers I'rom throwing garbidg, &c., over wharfes and into
the dock, Itt  is  hereby ordered that the same order shall bee in
force against all other persons whatsoever (upon the same panialt}^
in that order recited) that shall offend by casting any thing that may
annoy, into the same dock.
Whereas a high wa}' is laid outt through the land of Jno. White,
at Muddy river, whereby hee pretends much damage, Itt is there-
fore  ordered that his proportion of ordinary rates  to  towne and
country for the foure next yeares shall  bee allowed him by the
Towne, which allowance is accepted b}^ the said White for full sat-
isfaction.
Capt. James Johnson and Amos Richardson have liberty to sett
a fence aboutt the  spring for  the better  accommodation of the
Towne in the use of the  water, and preserving the  said  spring
from anoyance by cattell, provided they make another convenient
watering place for cattell ;      And in  consideration of their charge
herein, the Treasurer is oi'dered to allow them fourty shillings.
4: 1:  60-Gl.
Att a meeting of the Freemen upon publick notice.
M^ Edward lynge and Capt. Tho. Savage are chosen Deputyes
for the yeare ensuing, both in ordinary and Extraordinary Courts.
M^ Tho. Brattle is  chosen Coiuissioner to carry in the votes for
magistrates and County Treasurer.
Itt is desired that Elder Penn, Capt. Hutchinson, and M^ Tho.
Brattle, with the select men, draw up instructions for the Deput3'es
of the Gen. Court, and to present them to the next meeting of the
Freemen for their  concurrence.
[Here ends that part of the town records contained in the first
volume.  The following entry is written at the bottom of the page.]
 - 183 - 
160            City Document No. 46.
Ata Generall Court held at Bostone, 30th of May, 1660, At the
motion of some of the Inhabitants of Bostone.
It is  ordered that the select  men of that Towne, from time to
time, shall and hereby' Impowred to order the improvement and
feedinge of theire Coinons within the necke of land, by such cattle
as they shall iudge  meete ;     any lawe, usage,  or  Custom to  the
Contrarie notwithstandinge.
This is a true Coppie of the Courts order, as Attests.
Edward Rawson,
Secy.
1658, 26 of 5th.*
Margaret Noriss, an Irishwoman, is Admitted into the Town,and
David Faulkoner is bound to secure the Town (from any chargeas
respecting her). In a bond of seven pound.  Witness his hand.
David D. F. Faulkner.
marko of,
*Tliis entry, about Margaret Noriss,is  on the following page. No. 162 in  order.
P. 163 is blank ;   p. 164 has a memorandum of penal orders in the book.  On p. 165 is
a list as follows :  —
The list is  almost illegible now, and I have relied largely upon the copy made by
Mr. jNIorsc for the city.
12th of the 6th, August, 1636.
At a general meeting of the richer inhabitants there was given towards the main-
tenance of a free school master for the youth with us, Mr. Daniel Maud being now
also chosen thereunto :  —
The Governor, Mr. Hemy Vane, Esq.,
xl.
The Deputy Governor, Mr. John Win-
throp, Esq., x I.
Mr. liichard Bellingham, xl s.
Mr. Wm. Coddington, xxx s.
Mr. "Winthrop, Jr., xx s.
Mr. Wm. Hutchinson, xx «.
Mr. Robte. Kcayne, xx s.
Mr. Thomas Olyvar, x s.
Thomas Leveritt, x s.
William Coulbourn, viii s.
John Coggeshall, xiii s. iiii d.
John Coggan, xx s.
Robte. Harding, xiii s. iiii d.
.John Newgate, x s.
Richard TuttcU, x s.
Wm. Aspenall, viii s.
John Sampford, viii s.
Samuel Cole, x s.
William Balstonc, vi s. 8 d.
William Brenton,     .
James Penne, vi s. 8 d.
Jacob Ellyott, vi a. 8 d.
Nicholis Willys,     .
Raphe Hudson, x 8.
William Hudson,    .
William reircc, xx s.
John Audlcy, iiii s.
John Button, vi s.
Edward Bendall, v s.
Isaac Grosse, vs.
-ZakyeBosworth, iiii*.
William Salter, iiii s.
JamesPcnnyman, vs.
John Pembcrton, iiia.
John Bigses, iiii s.
Samuell Wilkes, x «.
Mr. Cotton,     .
Mr. Wilson, xx s.
Richard Wright, vi s. viii d,
Thomas Marshall, vi s. 8 d.
Wiliiam Talmagc, iiii s.
Richard Gridlcy, iiii s.
Thomas Savidge, v s.
Edward Eansforde, v «.
Edward Hutchinson, iiii ».
On the last page is wi-itten,
—
" An order of the General! Court made the 3d mo.
" The chosen men of the townes are to see that parents traine up their children in
learninge, labor, and implojTncnts ;    if not, upon presentment of the Grand Jury, or
other information of their neglect, the sayd Townsmen are subject to fine.
" They may impose fines upon such parents as refuse to give the account of their
childrcns education.
" With consent of too magistrates they have power to put for apprentice such chil-
dren whose parents are not able and fit to bringe them up.
" Every township, or such as arc deputed for the towne affayres, shall present to
the quarter Court all Idle and unprofitable persons, and all children who are not dili-
gently imployed per their parents :   which Court shall have power to dispose of them
for tlieir on welfare and commongood."
 - 184 - 
INDEX OF  NAMES.
/ Adams, 87, 102, 118, 122, 129, 134, 138, 142,
J      150. lo4.
( Afldams, 49.
Addington, 141.
Adkinson, 111.
<  Alby, 59.
I
Albye, 49.
(Alcock, 15, 128.
} Alcockc, 104.
( Alkok, 109.
Alcott, 116.
Aldiich, 50.
Alford, ln4.
( Allen, 49, 106.
? Allin,95, 128.
( Allyn, 49.
Allyco, 49.
Almshouse, 155, 158.
Ancient townsmen, 123.
j
Anderson, 91, 110.
I
Andersonne, 60.
Andrew, 133.
Apotliec.iry, 89.
Appremices, 87, 137, 156.
Arbitralion, plan of, 5.
Armory, 152.
(  Arnal. 112.
\ Amall, 57.
( Arnoll, 58.
( Arnald, 57.
I
Arnold, 63.
( Arnould, 49.
ArliUery, 113, 114.
Ashley, 14;s,  146.
Ashpinall, 114.
Aspenall, 9, 10. 11, 12, 13, 18, 20, 21, 22, 160.
Aspinall, 10, 108.
Aspinanll, 14.
Aspincll, 8, 9.
Aspiiinall, 9, 10.
Aspiaw;dl, 0, 7, 29, 38, 91, 119.
.   Aspynwall, 0.
Astwood, 10-', 103.
I  Atkinson, 94, 120, 122.
I  Atkinsone, 55.
Atwood, 71.
Audley, 9, 160.
I  Audlin, 108.
(  Audlyn, 39.
Avery, 126.
Award, 31.
Ayres, 116.
<  Baokster, 71.
I  Baxter, 43, 95, 122.
I  Bag^ley, 151.
I
Bagley, 151.
Baker, 03, 'J8, 105, 139, 150, 154.
Ballendine, 1.j8.
(Balston, 7, 9, 10,  11, 12, 16, 18, 19,  20,  21,
22, 83, 94, 95, 96.
Balstone, 3, 6, 7, 9, 10, 11, 12, 13, 14, 15, 16,
17, 18, 19, 21, 22, 30, 31, 32, 35, 37, 38,
IGO.
Baulstone, 139.
Barnard, 108.
Barnes, 96, 97, 114, 120, 126, 133, 153, 155.
( Barrel, 86.
} Barren, 49, 55, 111, 114, 118, 126,
(  Barrill, 36, 95.
Barrett, lo4.
Barricade, 119.
Basse, 71, 96, 97.
(  Bates, 26, 127.
{ Baytes, 18, 25, 28, 39, 62.
( Bayts, 28.
(Bateman, 104, 121.
I
Batman, 110.
( Baytman, 94.
Battery, 93, 100, 132.
the north, 131, 132.
Batts, 126.
iBeamesley, 99, 110.
Beamsley, 23, 92,  100, 102,  108,  129,  131,
134, 141.
Beamsly, 62, 98, 138.
Beaver, 83.
(  Beck, 57, 59, 100, 110, 118, 123.
}  Becke, 23, 78, 83, 85, 95.
Beer-selling, 91, 112, 126, 131, 132, 136, 140,
147, 151, 153, 1,54, 155.
I  Belchar, 14.
I  Belcher, 3, 44, 98, 114.
Belknap, 138.
Bell, :n, 57, 81,95.
Bellingham, 2, 3, 4, 20, 27, 44, 45, 48, 52, 53,
54, 65, 56, 57, 58, 59, 00, 61, 62, OJ, 65,
66, 67, G8, 70, 71, 72, 73, 74, 75, 79, b3
93,111,113, 160.
Bellingbame, 67.
Bcllingnam, 44.
Bell-man, 102, lOS, 128.
ringing, 96.
fBendall, 9, 20, 22, 25, 27, 34, 40, 46, 52, 63,
70, 77, 79, 80, 84, 86, 92, 93, 94, 97, 99,
106, 136, 160.
Bendell, 75.
Bendall'8 cove, 76, 77, 94, 9T.
dock, 97, 98, 122.
Benjamin, 151.
{Benett, 136.
Benit, 114, J36, 138.
Bennett, 58, 101, 104, 105, 134.
Bennitt, 120, 136.
Berry, 80, 87,89.
Bibble, 21.
Bidggood, 41.
( Bigge, 23, 160.
{ Biggs, 56.
( Bigs, 63, 68, 79.
Big's marsh, 79.
BiTl, 37, 46, 125, 150.
Birchall, 124.
Burchall, 26.
Bird, 50.
Births recorded, 71.
Bishop, 90, 143, 154.
IBitfeild,
50.
Bitlicid, 50, 108.
Blackston, 2.
Blackstone, 2, 25, 26, 32.
Blackstone's beach, 72.
"       "    rate for, 2.
Blagne, 137.
Blake, 128, 137, 143, 150.
 - 185 - 
162                Index of Names.
Blancher, 88, 105.
/Blantan, 1-23,  138. 157.
\ Blanton, 44, 48, 87, 88, 92, 94, 121.
126, 133,
i       134, 139.
Blesdale, 141.
Bligb, 112.
(  Blot, 74.
}  Blole, 95.
I
Blott, 9, 68, 144, 152, 155.
Blubber-boiling, 118.
Blue hills, 102.
Blysse, 50.
Borne, 100, 107, 108.
Boston 2 3. 1-2, 38, 39, 43, 44, 54, 55, 56, 57,
58 59 6 ,   62. 63. 67, 69, 72. 73, 77, 80, 84,
It, 8s 90 92, 96, 97. 101, 103, 105, 108, 109,
111,113,115,118, 119, 123, 124, 125, 126,
127i 132, 133, 137, 147, 160.
{  Bosworth, 9, 160.
i  Bozworlli, 80.
[Bourne, 23, 27, 118, 121.
) Bowrn, 110.
} Bworne, 56, 5S, 59.
j  Bowen, 38.
I  Bowin, 78, 95.
Boyden, 154.
Boys in church, 72.
Brackett, 9. 38, 48, 49.
Bradford, 46. 113.
Bradstrect, 124.
[ Erainlree.^5i 65, 75, 81. 82, 95,
99, 127, 133,
I
135, 144.
|Snlr^63!e6,67,71,72,74.77.79,80,84.
J      >J5, 97.
i
Braiuuye, 96, 97.
j   Brantree, 101,
102, lOo, 106.
Brantrcy, 136.
1   Brayntree, 59.
(.Brayntry, 62.
Branton, 112.
Braugbton, 119.
Brcedon, 156.
Brenton 1, 2. 3, 5, 8, 9, 10, 11, x*, 13, 14, 15,
16  iVTlS 19, 29 37, 94, 105, 108, 109, 110,
m,115, 116 117. 118,  120,  121, 122  123,
124 125  126, 128, 129, 130, 131, 132, 133,
134! 136, 138, 140, 141, 142, 160.
Brewster, 143, 147.
Brick-making, 14, 81, 146, 148.
(  Bridgam, 155, 158.
lHdST;56!V,"^"5, 92, 97, 99. 105, 110, 115,
117,121,126.133,144,158.
fBrisco, 88, 90, 143.
J
Briscoe. 48, 52, 53, 54.
S Briscowe, 53.
I,  Briskoe, 65, 68, 71.
Brockett, 34.
Brooks, 121.
TBrugh'ton. 139, 143, 144, 146, 148. 149. 15C.
{
151, 152, 154, 155, 157.
( Browghton, 112.
Browne, 22, 24, 26, 32, 66. 68, 95.
Bruff, 113.
Buckets-fire, 122, 149.
Buffer, 7.
Building regulated, 90.
Bulrthe town, 109, 116, 119, 126, 130.
(  Burden, 53,  62, 63, 66, 67, 74, 99,
101, 102
5         106,117.
( Burdon. 32, 33, 34, 44, 45.
Burges, 113.
Burnell, 68.
Burrill, 94, 135, 140.
Burying-place, 70, 83, 141, 157, 158,
'     "    the new, 153.
Busbby, 92.
SBuslienall, 31.
Bushnall. 9, 15. 24. 25, 26.
Busbnell,141.
Butcher, 150.
Butler, 94, <J6.
I  Butcnian,99.
Butman, 98.
ButtuU, 30, 56, 59, 114.
j  Button. 60.
{Butolffs, 90.
Buttalph, 29, 30.
Buttoltc, 88, 90, 92, 97.
Buttolpb, 61, 155,158.
Buttle, 44, 48, 66, 85.                     _,  ,„
Bution, 9, 16, 17, 39, 54, 57, 58, 50, 66,
74, 76.
92,94,99,104,117,160.
Cambridge, 52, 56. 61. 62. 69, 106. 119. 123.
125. 136, 146.
Cane, 54.
Cannoneer, 48.
Captain's Plain, 21, 45, it.
Captives, 157.
Carter, 41,49, 53,143.
Cartter. 95.
Carts, 147.
Castle, 77, 78, 84, 89, 140.
Causeway, The, 71, 74. 80.
Chafeth, 73, 78.
( Chafey, 32.
\ Chaffev, 95.
( Chaffy, 89.
Chamberlain, 105.
Chandler, 91.
Chapin, 143, 147.
Chapman, 68.
Chappell. 32, 33.
Charlcstown, 33. 113.
Charlestowne. 27, 28, 54. 57, 100, 106. 123.
Charleton, 74, 82.
Charletowne, 69, 71.
Charlstown, 112, 113.
Charlstowne, 119.
Charlton, 95.
Charltowne, 7.
Cbeeseborowe, 7.
Chceseboirowc, 2.
__
Cheesebrough, 2^47.
Cheesbrough, 3. 5. 20.
Chesborowe, 7-
l_Chescborowe, 61.
I  Cheevers, 150.
I
Chevars, 114.
Chieklcy, 150.
Child, 164.
Chimney-sweepers, 127.
Cisterns, 115.
Clapboards. 70.
_
Clapton in Somersetshire, 34.
i(
'iTi'k  lOG
C arke. Si! 44, 46, 50, 76, 85, 94, 95, 98, 99,
100 101, 102, 103, 104, 105, 107,
10^, 110,
112, 113, 118. 120, 126. 128. 134, 143,156.
Clay, digging of, 67.
Clerk of the Writs, 71.
Clifford, 76.
Clow, 137.
iCoale,
15.
Coleii", 12, 13, 29, 38, 42, 65, 92. 113, 114.
115, 116, 117. 118. 119, 120, 121, 122, 123,
124  125  126, 127, 128, 129, 130, 131, 13i,
133, 134, 135, 136, 137, 138, 139,
140, 141,
/ Coddtngton', 1, 3,  6,  7, 8,  9. 14. 15,  16, 17,
>      18, 2 ',21, 38,41, 160.
gSn?r3:'8t'2i%,35.41,42.43.44,45.
I
48. 51, 52, 54, 55, 56, 58.
<!   Cosgiiin, 62.
Coggan, 113, 160.
(  Cogin. 106.
fCogeshall, 8.                  _   .„ ,.  ,.  ,.
Colgeshall, 1, 2,  8, 9, 10, 11, 12, 13, 14, lo,
J       16, 17.  18. 19. 20. 21. 22.  24, 28, 30. 31,
1             160.
iCoggeshell. 20.
 - 186 - 
Index of Names.               163
Colborn'B end, 52, 54, 74, 102.
fiekl gate, 102.
fColbornc, 3,  5, 6,  7, 8, 9, 10, 13, 34, 92, 94,
96, loo, 101, 102.
Colbourn, 34.
Colbourne, 7,  15, 35, 86,  87, 88,  89, 90, 91,
92, 93.
Colbroii, 21,  42,  43,  51,  52,  62, 63,  65, 66,
67, 69, 70,  71, 72, 73,  74,  75, 76, 77, 78,
79,81,82,83,84,85, 86,99.
Colbrone, 95, 97, 98, 99.
Colburn, 2.
Coleborne, 61, 99, 101, 102, 108.
Colebron, 52.
Coleburno, 54, 55, 56, 57, 58, 59, 60, 61.
Colobornc, 100.
Coulborne, 9.  10, 11, 12,  13, 14, 15, 16, 17,
18, 19, 20, 21, 22, 24, 25, 26, 27, 31, 32,
33, 34, 35, 36, 41, 44.
Coulbourn, 35, 36, 37, 160.
Coulbouriie, 19, 20, 30, 35, 36.
Coulbron, 38, 40, 41, 42, 44, 45, 48, 51.
fColimore, 1?9.
Collimoor, 114.
Collimore, 114.
Culimore,  I
|air;o:>eeColimore.
l.Cullymore,J
j
Collins, 134.
}  CoUyiis, 50
Commissioners, seven chosen, 112.
"      for the Fort, 8.
"      of Rates, 106, 156.
"      to carry votes, 114, 129, 134,
143, 149, 159.
Committee of the town, 8.
Common (and waste lands), 43, 52, 67, 78, 79,
80, 83, 84, 88, 89, 90, 93, 110, 116,
119, 126. 135, 154, 158, 160.
at Mt. VVollaston, 47.
at Muddy River, 44.
Commonage, 8S, 124, 160.
Companies, the six, 65.
Corapton, 94, 96.
Concord, 37.
Conduit, 132, 138, 148, 158.
Connell, 38.
I  Conney, 146.
/ Conny, 146, 148.
Constables, 4, 5, 11,  20, 35, 44, 58, 62, 63, 64,
69, 70, 73, 75, 76, 80, 81, 82, 83, 84, 86, 87,
88, 89, 90, 92, 94, 95, 99, 100, 103, 108, 113,
114, 115, 116,  118,  121, 122, 123, 128, 129,
133, 134, 140, 143, 150, 154.
Coogun, 2.
(  Cook, 90, 139.
}  Cooke, 109, 117, 157.
Cook-shop, 67, 112.
Coope, 95.
I  Cop, 144.
(  Copp, 90.
Corn, measures of, 126.
Con.ncll, 35.
ICorser, 114.
Coursar, 33.
Courser, 26, 55,  .59,  60, 73, 74, 75, 90, 103,
108, 112, 118, 123, 134, 137, 143, 150, 153,
I
154.
tCourcsser, 99.
(Colteu, 103,108,122.
{ Cotton, 3, 6, 13, 25, 26, 99, 113, 129, 138, 146,
(         160.
Court-house, 94.
Cove, the, 34, 39, 74, 79, 81, 94, 09, 113, 117.
Covey, 50.
Cowell, 150.
Coxall, 2.
(Crabtre,110.
ICrabtree, 31, 45.
Cramme, 22, 23, 26.
Crane, 108.
Cranwell, 25, 33.
Creek, the, 2, 100.
Creek, Fisher's, 21, 28, 30.
Great, 43.
Salt, 29.
(  Crichley, 118, 122.
)  Critchley, 46.
Cromwell, Capt. T., his gift, 102, 108.
Crumell, 108.
Crumwell, 102.
Cunny, 129, 134.
(  Curtis, 83, 140.
(  Curtys, 44.
Dasset, 50.
Davenport, 128.
fDavice, 89,90,91.94.
Davies, 61.
I  Davis, 52, 53, 54, 69, 72, 73, 80, 84. 91, 92,
95, 96, 101, 103, 105, 106, 108, 118, 119,
I                120, 121, 122, 123, 124, 125, 126, 127, 128,
129, 130, 131, 132, 133, 134, 135, 137, 138,
140, 141, 142, 143, 144, H5, 146, 147, 148,
149, 150, 151, 152, 15J, 154, 155, 156, 157,
158.
Davise, 95.
Davisse, 25, 33, 34.
Dawes, 127, 128, 151.
(  Dawson, 58.
)  Dawsonne, 58.
Day, 57, 60, 63.
Deacons, 4.
Dedham, 56, 57, 69, 106.
Deming, 103, 107.
(  Denit.iee, 14.
J  Denning, 26.
( Dennis, 69, 105.
{ Dennys, 19, 31.
( Dinis, <J5.
Deputie, the, 8.
Deputies to the General Court, 10, 11, 14, 18,
20, 31, 32, 34, 35, 38, 41, 42, 52, 55, 61, 69,
73, 88, 90, 99, 100, 103, 108, 113, 118, 128,
134, 143, 14U, 154, 159.
Derman, 155.
Derry falls, 34;
(  Devotion, 106, 118.
I  Devotyon, 121.
Dewer, 143, 154.
Dexter, 67.
Dial post, 75.
Distress levied, 122, 151.
{Dinsdale, 129, 13-1, 143, 150, 164.
Dinsdall, 114.
Dinsdayle, 118, 123.
Dinsdell, 137.
Dock, 94, 148, 170.
Bendall's, 97, 98, 122.
head, 142.
S
Doelittell, 114.
/  Dolille, 123.
Dorchester, 4, 7,  12,  15,  39,  67,  76, 96, 126,
127.
Dorchester necke, 4.
Dorryfall, 9, 19, 41,
'Douglas, 55.
Duglas, 100, 102, 134, 139.
Dugless, 138.
Duglice, 88.
Doutcb. 131.
Dowse, 45, 143.
Drains, 157, 158.
Draw-bridge, 117, 124, 131, 132, 156, 157.
the new, 153.
Drummers, 36, 67, 75, 76, 80, 82, 85, 86.
i  Drury, 118, 129, 153.
I  Drurye, 122.
Ducr, 126.
( Duncan, 103, 139.
{ Duncom, 112.
(Dunkom, 114.
Dutchman, Peter the, 35, 63.
IDyar, 29,31.
I  Dyer, 8.
Dyneley, 16, 24.
 - 187 - 
,164                   Index of Names.
East, 30, 95, 152.
Envoris, 103,
Edsell, 143.
Edwards, 01.
Eliatt, 100, 101, 102, 107.
Eliot, 57, 59, 60, 65, 05, 67, 68, 69, 70, 71, 72,
73,  74, 75, 76, 78, 79,  80,  81, 82,  83, 84,
85, 80, 87, 88,  89, 90, 91, 92, 93, 94, 95,
96,97,98,99, 146.
.   Eliott, 33, 52, 54, 55, 56, 57, 58, 61, 62, 63.
i Elliott, 33.
Ellyot, 7, 9, 16, 17, 52.
Ellyott, 10, 17,  18, 19, 20, 21, 22, 30, 31, 32,
36, 38, 44, 52, 160.
!   Elyott, 21, 34, 35, 36, 37, 41, 42 43, 44, 45,
[          40,48,51.
Eliot's orchard pales, 67.
barn, 82, 99.
Elkin, 26.
Else, 116.
Emins, 93.
Engineer, 8.
England, 134.
English, 107, 128.
(  Evcrall, 60.
I
Evercll, 54, 105, 106, 138, 139.
J Everil, 90.
i
Everill, 3,  13, 17, 36,  39, 62, 68, 72, 87,  88,
1                    89, 90, 91, 92, 93, 94, 95,  96, 97, 98,  99,
t      108, 130, 144.
Everett. 129.
Expedition against Nlnicraft, 121.
f Fairbancb, 40.
Fairbancke, 10, 22, 25, 45.
Fairbancks, 15, .39.
I
Fairbanke, 5, 10,37.
Fairb.-inks, 19.
I
F.iircbanck, 13.
i   I-^iircbancke, 8, 18, 32, 37, 52.
1  Faireb.ancks, 35.
Fuircbank, 26.
Faircbankos, 74.
Fairchanks, 103.
Farobainks, 104.
Fayrebanck, 57.
( Fayrebankos, 68, 73.
/ Fairowe.ither, 29.
\ Faircwether, 9.
( Fayrcweather, 28, 29, 30.
F.allowcll, 41.
( Faour, 86.
{ Fawer, 94.
( Fawr, 92.
Farnham, 118, 121.
Farncsids, 122.
Fatts, 148.
Faulkner, 149, 160.
F-iulkoner, 160.
Fccld, 112.
Fences, 3, 5, 8, 9, 13, 14, 17, 33, 39, 52, 53, 54,
56, 58,61, 6i, 68, 81, 90, 103, 110, 113, 115,
117, 118, 123, 130, 141, 145, 15J.
Fences to bo built on land forfeited, 13.
Ferry, 7, 22, 72, 73, 79, 81, 89,  100, 106, 112,
113.
"   Charleton, 72, 73, 106.
Field, near Colbron's, 3, 33.
"  Common, 52.
"  Corn, 9.
"   Fort, 3, 9, 17, 33, 39, 52, 81.
"  Mill, .3,  9, 17, 33, 39, 43, 52,  54, 63, 71,
72, 74, 70, 78, 7.), 80, 81, 84.
"  Kew, 3, 9, 17, 18, 22, 33, .37,  38, 39, 41,
44,  45, 48,  52, 57,  58, 60, 66, 68, 71,
82, 83.
"  Public, 4.
"  Gentry, or Sentry hill, 61, 62, 63.
Firmin, 1, 2.
Fiahcr, 125, 134, 135.
Fish-house, 102.
Fitch, 24.
Flack, 54.
Flats, 107.
(  Flcchar, 114.
\  Flechcr, 111.
( Fletcher, 4S, 56, 70, 90, 102, 108.
(  Flint, 18, 47, 80.
;  Flynt, 80.
Floyd, 120.
Flud, 05.
FoUl-kceper, 17, 18, 40.
Football, 141, 157.
Foote, 117.
Fort or Fortification, 70, 71, 77, 81, 82, 86, 87,
99, 114, l;;3.
Fort, money lent for, 8, 114.
Foster, 42, 139.
(  Foule, 42, 46, 101.
}  Fowle, S:, 86, 87, 88, 101.
Foxery, 113.
iFr.ainklin, 104, 105.
Francklin, 83, 89,97,153.
Franklin, 76, 98, 99, 110, 115, 117.
Frankling, 68, 79, 84.
Frary, 133, 154.
Freind, 51.
French, 50.
Fresh brooke, 21, 22, 25, 26, 37, 47, 48.
pond, 33.
Fryar, 141.
Furnell, 149.
Galleries, boys in, 72, 140, 151.
( Gallop, 12, 13, 46, 78, 81.
I
Gallopp, 28.
( Galloppe, 19.
Gallows, 130.
t  Gardiner, 134, 146.
I  Gardner, 149.
Garner, 8.
Garrison, 84, 89, 92.
Garrold, 37.
Gate, for boats, 74.   ( See Roxbury Gate.)
Gentlemen of the Artillery, 113.
f Gibbon, 15, 18, .38, 41, 86, 90.
I
Gibbones, 52, 127.
I
Gibbonnes, 123.
\ Gibon, 21, 41, 42, 43, 44, 45, 48, 51, 52, 55.
I
Giboncs, 28, 55, 56, 57, 58, 5J, 00, 01, 62, 65,
73, 74, 127
83, 84.
66, 67, 63, 63, 70,
'
(.Gibons, 75, 78,79, 80,
Gibson, 94, 99, 127.
Gilbert, 50, 135.
Gilford, 113.
( Gillam, 19, 27, 28, 33, 39,  52, 96,  139, 142,
\        144.
(  Gillum, 54, 94.
Glover, 2^, 99, 101, 102, 118, 125, 129, 141, 144,
145.
Goats, 33, 39, 60, 67, 68.   (See also Cattle.)
Gold, 138.
Goodwine, 53.
Goose, 118, 122, 128, 144.
Grainc, 40.
Grame, 46.
Graves, 86, 139.
Gray. 31,53,
Greedly, 111.
i
Green, 121.
)  Greene, 9, 123, 129, 131, 143.
Greenfield, 12.
Greenliff, 126,130.
Greensmyth, 12.
Grenoclif, 120.
Gridley, 9, 17, 33, 39, 53, 55, 90. 120, 121, 129,
130, 132, 148, 150, 151, 154, 160.
'GrigL'S, 110.
Grigge, 33.
Grigges, 9.
Griggs, 23, 24, 33, 87,95.
Grigs, 110.
Groose, 17,91.
\ Gross, 136, 151.
(  Grosse, 26, 38, 44, 45, 63, 160.
Grower, 154.
 - 188 - 
Index of Names.               165
{Grub, 88, 158.
Grube, 95.
Grivbb, 2, 3, 46, 53, 56, 87, 90.
Grubbe, 16, 31, 72.
Grync, 35.
Guagers, 129.
GuUhrop, 68.
I   Guiiison, 93, 99.
I  Gunnyson, 15,67.
Gunner, i'2, 48.
Guns, 124.
Gutteridge, 66.
Uagburne, 59, 78.
Hailshall, 103.
Hall, '.)-2.
HulsoU. 83, 89, 98, 99.
Halston. 88.
Ilamberycs, 113.
Hambros, li3.
Hanios, 127.
(  Ilanbery, 97.
}  Hanbury, 127, 142.
Hansett, 20.
Harbar, 49.
Harbcrt, 111.
Harbor for boats, 73.
Harding, 2, 8, IS,  16, 17, 18, 19, 20,21, 22,
23, 30, 31, 32. 38,  37, o8, 43, 44, 45, 48,
100, 105, 131, 160.
Hardingc, 1, 20, 32, 33, 35, 40, 41, 88.
.narding3,94, 96.
Harding'.s house, 13.
Harkcr, 9, 23, 95, 123, 129,
Harria, 133.
Harrison, 86.
Hart, 154.
Harvard College, 113, 118, 120, 133.
Harwood, 15, 34, 128.
Hary, 154.
Hathwav, 60.
Haugh. 106.
Haugb's boat place, 58.
Haulgb, 7, 9, 18, 21, 22, 31 34, 35, 38, 47, 48,
52.
Hawker, 23.
( Huwkinga, 37.
\ Hawkine, 31, 52, 77, 78, 81, 89, 94, 100, 113,
(        120.
llayle, 120.
Hearsey, 118.
Heaton, 24.
Ilenricke, 44.
Henry, 81.
Hervert College, 113.
Hcwcs' corn feild, 81.
Hcwstead, 45.
Hibbens, 60, 62, 72, 73,  74,  75, 76,  78, 79,
SO, 81, 82, 83, 84, 85, 8ii, 103.
Hibbius, 41, 44, 62, 5;.;,  54, 55, 56, 57, 58, 59,
60, 61, 72, 73, 77, 78, 80, 82, 88, 89, 108,
1      115, 126.
Hibbon, 44.
I
Hibboiis, 87.
|.Hibonc3,61.
SHichbone, 116.
Hickbornc, 100.
Hitchbone, 128.
Higgins, 156.
Highway, maintenance of, 62, 63, 65, 70, 103.
(See also Surveyors and Wat/s.)
Hill, 20,  30, 08, 52,  63, 64, 05, 66, 67, 63. 70,
71, 72, 73, 74, 75, 76,  78, 70,80, 81, 82. 83,
81, 86, 87, 89, 92, 94, 96, 97, 101,  117, 122,
149.
Hills Blue, 102.
Gentry, 52, 60,  61, 145, 150,  155,  156,
170.
Cotton, 138.
Fort, 70, 77, 79, 81, 128, 130, 158,
Fox, 56, 59, 66, 97, 109.
Great, 4S.
Milne, 95.
Sentry, 60.
Hillstead, 18.
(  Hogg, 2, 48.
}  Ilogge, 45.
Hog-reeve, 13.   (See Swine.)
Holbridtre, 122.
(Ilolidgc, 8S.
<Hollige, 95.
( Hollcdge, 38.
Holland, 140.
Hord, 39.
Horses, rules concerning, 61.
' Houchin. 95, 98, 97, 98, 99, 100, 101, 102, 103,
104, 105, 100, 1U7, lOS, 110, 113, 115, 116,
117,118,119,120,121,122.
Howchin 92, 93, 94, 99, 108, 109, 114, 134,
157.
Howchine, 114.
j  Hough, 57, 101.
I  Howgh, 55, 56, 57, 58, 61.
Houlton, 9, 2;, 108.
Houses, on line of street, 12, 90. 98.
"    one on a lot, 14.
"    to be sold only with lands, 34.
"    to bo pulled down in case offire, 115.
of oflace, 109, 148.
How, 126, 143.
Howard, 32.
( Howen, 54, 84, 108.
] Howin, 63, 83.
(Howine, 112.
flluchinson, 115,117,118.
Hutchinson, 2, 3, 4, 5, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, 13,
I                 14, 15, 16, 17, 18, 19, 20, 21, 22, 30, Z2,
138,30,45,47,48,55, 77, 78, 83, 94,108,
109, 110, 112, 113, 114, 116, 123, 134, 135,
l:i6, 143, 155, 159.
ITutchison, 94, 96.
Hudson, 3, 8, 11, 12, 13, 19, 20, 30, 32, 33, 34,
3\ 41, 44, 51, 52, 66, 07. 68, 73, 80, 90, 94,
95, 96, 113, 121, 124, 130, 143, 145, 150, 152,
155, 100.
Hudson's legacy, 124.
Hues, 81.
Hull, 14, 19, 42, 43, 47, 66. 90, 105, 123, 134,
135, 1.36, 137, 138, 139,  140, 141, 142. 143,
144, 145, 146, 147, 148, 149, 150, 151, 152,
153, 154, 155, 156, 157, 158.
Hunne, 31.
Hunt, 100.
Hurd, 42, 48, 66, 93, 102.
Hyricke, 37.
lans, 122.
Indian title, 6, 11.
Indians, trade with, 65.
Ines, 23.
Inge, 33.
Ingles, 95, 126, 129.
Inglish, 113.
Inhabitants admitted, 35, 36, 37, 39, 40,
43, 44, 45, 46, 47, 48, 51, 55, 56, 58,
62, 63, 06, 67, 68, 69, 71, 80, 83, 86,
93, 97, 104, 105, 106, 107, 111, 112, 1
119, 120, 121, 122, 123, 124, 12
128, 130, 131, 133, 136, 137, lo8, 1;
141, 142, 143,146,147, 148.
Inn-kecpers, 10, 52, 108, 122, 153, 157.
Ipswich, 33.
Ireland, 71, 119, 129, 130, 135.
Iron-works, 77, 91, 92, 127.
Island, Bird, lUO, 144.
"   Castle, 42, 77, 78, 82, 86, 128.
"   Deare, 13, 58, 6i, 65, 68, 82, 92,
125.
"   Deer, 13, 58, 60, 68, 92, 93, 97,
"   Hocg, 2, 15, 29, 3'^,  44, 47, 61
55, 58, 6;i, 70, 75.
"   Long, 46, 61, 53, 54, 56, 67, 60, 78, 81
94, 95, 125, 140.
"   near the Mill-field, 54.
"   Noddles, 3, 4, 22.
"   Nut, 9.
"   Spectacle, 53, 55, 94, 95, 125.
Isle Sables, 52.
41, 42,
5!>,  61,
88, 91,
13,116,
26, 127,
140.
125.
63, 54,
 - 189 - 
166                Index of Names.
( Jackline, 57.
j Jackling, 69.
( Jacklyii, u2.
( Jackson. 24, 31, 37, 45, 59, 74, 78, 82, 92, 95,
]      97, 1)8, 99, 125, 134, 153.
( Jacksonne, 53, 57.
Jamaca, 139.
Jaraes, 140.
J
Jcmson, 95.
j JimsoD, 104.
Jepson, 41.
.lowell, 49, 127.
Jibson, 91.
( Joancs, 88.
{ Joans, 90.
( Jones, 95, 123.
{Johnson, 9, 24, 33, 35, 67, 72, 77, 78, 94, 101,
112, 124, 127, 133, 140, 154, 155, 156, 158,
159.
.Tonson, 60.
Joliff, 150.
I  Joy, 71, 81, 84. 153, 158,
}  Joye, 15.
Joyslin, 106.
Judkin, 63.
Jury, 2, 8, 81.
Jynks, 118.
'Kayne, 8, 103, 106, 119.
Keayne, 11, 12, 13, 14, 15, 17, 21, 33, 34, 35,
36, 37, 3H, 40, 41, 42, 48,  65,  77,  78,  86,
83, 89, 92, 94, 123, 132, 154, 160.
Keine, 27, 28.
Keyn, 112.
Keynes, 101.
Keayne, Capt., his legacy, 132, 154.
kcllog, 154.
Kemblo, 152.
I  KenorJck, 108.
}  Kenrick, 146,
Kerby. 95.
Key or quay, 63.
Keyly, 87.
Kiclby,48.
I  Kingsley, 59.
I  Kinsley, 17, 32, 41, 47,
Kirkby, 49.
Knap, 140.
Knight, 66, 83, 114, 115, 116, 128, 137.
Ladders, 114, 122, 146, 149.
Lake, 127, 143, 144, 145, 146, 147, 148, 149, 150,
151, 153, 154, 155, 156, 157, 158.
Landing-place, 1, 2, 76.
Lands, public, division of, 3.
"   to members of church, 5.
"   not to be sold to strangers, 5, 10, 12,
90, 103, 109.
"   must be built upon, 5.
"   on the neck not to be granted, 6.
"   to be viewed by Selectmen, 97.
"   houses to bo built on, 12, 88.
"   no more to be granted, 52, 65, 89.
"   not built on, forfeited, 52, 88.
"   sales r.ititied, 65.
"   to be divided, excepting commons, 67.
"   all grants to be in fee-simple, 85.
"   origin of Boston Common, 89.
"   not 10 be let to foreigners, 103.
Lane, 95, 126, 127, 142.
Langham, 138.
Lawsoa, 86.
Leader, 91, 102, 103, 123, 124, 127, 129, 131.
(  Leager, 88.
j  Legar, .'54.
Lean-to, 137.
Leather, dressing of, 60, 62, 72, 155.
sealers of, 90, 92,  94,  99,  103, 108,
114, 118, 123, 129, 134 143, 150, 154.
j  Leavitt. 13.
i
Lcivett, 114.
Lee, 128.
Letherland, 45, 46.
Letters from the town to Braintree, 81.
"     "     "     to Lieut. Fisher, 134.
fLcveret, 60, 113.
Levorelt, 1, 34, 35, 36, 37, 60, 61.
Leverit, 105, 112.
Leveritt, 5, 6, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, 13, 14, 15, 16,
17, 18, 19, 20, 21, 22, 25,  26,  27, 30, 31,
32, 33, 34, 35, 36, 38, 40, 41, 42, 43,  46,
63, 66, 101, 1U3, 104, 105, 106,  107, 108,
160.
Levy, country, 58.
I
Lewes, 113.
Lewis, 139.
Lighlfoot 115.
Lime-kiln and pits, 56, 59, 66, 118, 155.
Linchorne, 95.
fLin,
119, 136.
Linn, 119, 136.
Lyn, 123.
Lynn, 13, 62, 132,
Lynne, 12.
(  Lindon, 112.
\  Lyndon, 154.
Lippencot, 80.
Liquor-selling, 116.   (Seealso Seer-selling.)
Loe, 108.
Loo, 97.
London, 11, 41.
Lord's day, idlers on, 131.
Lots in Boston, granted, leased or sold, 6, 9,
15, 16.17, IS, 19,20, 21, 22, 31, 32, 33,  34,
35, 36, 37, 38, 41, 42, 43, 45, 4ii, 48, 51,  52,
53, 54, 57, 59, 60, 62, 63, 66, 71, 78, 81, 82,
83,85,92,93,97,10), 101,  1U5,  109, 110,
112, 114, 115, 116, 126,  128,  133, 138, 139,
142, 145, 153.
Lots at Muddy River, 22, 27, 31, 32.
"   Kumnoy Marsh and PuUen Point, 27,
31.
"   Mt. Wollaston, 31, 48, 50.
Love, 31.
Lovell,51.
Lovett, 101.
I>ow-water mark, 62, 66, 68, 74, 102.
Lowe, 15, 20, n, 32, 48, 63, 66, 75, 76, 77, 83.
Ludkin, 95, 107, 108.
Lugg, 47.
Lyall, 35.
Lynde, 124, 130, 150.
Lysle, 38, 43.
Magistrates' seat, 63.
Mahoone, 141.
Makepeace, 19, 39,
Maiden, 136, 155.
Mansfield, 33.
Manufacturers must be inhabitants, 135.
Manure, 119.
Map, 11, 133.
Marchant, 49.
Market, clerk of,  94, 99, 103, 108, 114,  118,
122, 129, 134, 143, 150, 154.
Market place, 12, 124.
Marsh, 14, 16, 18, 19, 20, 21, 22, 37, 38, 45, 55,
53, 57, 58, 60, 61, 67, 68, 611, 71, 72, 73,  72,
78, 79, 81, 82, 83, 80, 86, 83, 89, 91, 92,  93,
96, 100, 126, 146, 153.
Marsh, Romely, 36, 37, 43.
"   R)mly, 114.
"   Romney, 56.
"   Round, 52.
"   Rumley, 7, 27, 28, 101, 103, 108.
"   Rumney(now Chelsea),  40, 62, 70, 73,
92, 114. 118. 119, 122, 129,  130,  132,
134, 13.3, 136, 140, 143, 150, 151, 154.
Marshal, 69,91.
Marshall, 7, 13, 16, 21, 27, 28, 33, 48, 53, 55,
66, 74, 80, 83. 84, 89, 90, 91, 92, 93, 94,
95, 96, 97, 98, 99, 100. 101. 102, 103, 104,
105, 1116, 107, 108, 109, 110, 111, 112, 113,
114, 115, 116, 117, 118, 119, 120, 121, 122,
126, 127, 128, 129, 1.30, 131, 1.32, 133, 134,
135, 136, 137, 138, 139, 140, 141, 142, 146,
 - 190 - 
Index of Names.               167
j
Martin, 142, 146.
j  Murtyn, 22.
Mason, 32, 139, 143, 147, 158.
I
Masaon, 95.
iMatson, 2, 3, 27, 28, 40, 80, 81, 105.
Mattson, 118.
Maltocke, 34.
Mattoib, 123.
Maud, 17, 160
Mawde, 17.
Maudslcy, 50.
I  Maverick, 101, 102, 136.
I
Maverickes, 3, 30, 46, 75, 79, 86.
Mawcr, 12, 31, 51.
f
Meakins, 9.
i Mokins, 19.
[.Mckyns, 43.
Mears, 2-3, 27, 46.
Measures, standard, 142.
Meetings, gcueral town, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 10, 11,
18, 20, 21, 2-.',  31, 32, 34, 3j, 3H, 41, 44, 61,
64, 65, 07, 69, 7t), 72, 73, 75, 77, 78, 79, 82,
84, 86, 87, 88, 89, 90, 92, 94,  99,  100, 103,
106, 1U7, 108, 111, 112, 113, 116, 118, 122,
124, 128, 129. 133, 143,  148, 149, 150, 152,
154, 156.
Meetings of committee, 46.
"    order at, 4, 87.
*'       time of, 149.
"    moderator at, 152.
Meeting house, new, 99, 108, 114, 140, 151,
old, 105, 130.
(  Meilowcs, 22, 32, 33, 58, 68, 83, 148.
j  Mellows, 7.
( Merry, 70, 72, 80, 81, 86, 87, 92, 93, 107, 127,
)      131.
( Merrye, 43, 77, 100, 140.
Merry's point, 77, 87.
Merry all, 38.
I  Mesenger, 109.
(  Messenger, 46, 83, 86.
( Milam, 76, 85, 91, 98, 99, 104, 105, 157.
{ Milame, -^9.
( Mylam, 13, 25.
!
Miles, 60, 83.
Milles, 44.
Mils, 105.
Militia, 140.
Milk, 68.
Mill, 16, 19, 20,
98, 120.
bridge, 107, 133, 153.
point, 7.
pound, 105.
stream, 75, 117, 124.
at Watertowne, 135, 136.
Wind, 70, 71, 72, 73, 78, 79, 98, 105, 107,
108, 109, 126.
(  Misticke, 4, 6.
\  Mestick, 2.
Moderator, 152, 154.
I  Monanticott, 50.
I  Monoticott, 50.
Moore, 49.
Morse, 1, 160.
Mosly, 111.
Mosse, 122.
f Mount Wallaston, 66, 135.
Willaston, 55, 59.
I                                  Willystono, 39.
Wolfiston, 96.
Wollistone, 6.
WolL-iston, 54, 62, 63, 65.
Wollystone, 37.
Woolaston, 3.
Wooleston, 2.
Wooliston, 21, 48.
Woolistone, 14.
"Woolljstone, 6, 15.
Woollystone, 7, 9, 10, 11, 14, 15,  17,
18, 19, 31, 37, 3S, 40, 41, 42, 46, 49,
50.
Woolyston, 48.
Woolystone, 4, 44.
34, 37, 71, 74, 75, 76, 97,
Mowing, rights for, 16, 18, 22, 37, 38, 45, 48,
57, 58, bd, 62, 68, 69,  74, 78, 84,  88, 100,
153.
Mullyn, 9.
i
Munt, 90, 100, 122, 131, 138.
I  Muntc, 95.
Murrills, 149, 150.
Nabors, 130.
{  Nanny, 127.
(  Nannyes, 124.
Nash, 70, 91, 99, 108, 148.
Neale, 50.
Neck, 3, 16, 62, 79.
Dorchester, 4.
Needham, 15, 41, 45, 51.
fNegoos, 89, 149.
-;  Nogoosc, 9, 16, 33, 39, 47, 95.
(.Negus, 55, 148.
Ncugate, 56, 57,58, 59.
Newgate, 11, 12, 13, 14,  15,  16,  27, 32, 34,
3"), 43, 65, 76, 101, 119, 160.
Newget, 113.
Nuegate, 59, 60.
Nugate, 55, 119.
\  Newton, 50.
/  Newtone, 24, 25, 26, 48.
Nino men,  e, 65.  (Sec Selectmen.)
Ninicraft, expedition against, 121.
Noble, 107.
Norden,106, 127, 129, 134, 143, 150.
Noriss, 160.
North-end, 87, 100, 105, 138.
Norton, 120, 152.
Nuisances, rules against, and fines for, 1, 11,
18, CO, 70,  74,  91,  97,  104, 105, 109, 110,
112,  113, 118, 126, 128, 131, 135, 138, 139,
148, 154, 159.
Oakes 9.
(  Odlin,'28, 36, 88, 95, 143.
\ Odline, 53, 56.
l.Odlyn,3fJ, 51.
Offley, 34, 42.
Olcott, 116, 119.
Olivar, 32, 35.
Oliver, 1 ,  8, 27, 28, 29, 30, 40, 42, ,53, 56, 59,
60, 61, 62, 63, 65, 06, 67, 68, 69, 70, 71, 72,
73,  74,  75,  76, 77, 78, 79, 80, 81, 82, 83,
84,  85,  86, 88, 89, 90, 95, 99,  103, 106,
107, luS, 109, 112, 114, 115, 116, 117, 118,
119,120, 121, 122, 123, 149, 155.
Olliver, 123. 124, 125, 126, 127, 128, 129,130,
lol, 132, 133, 134, 135, 143, 144, 146.
Ollyvar, 14, 17.
Ollvver, 3, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9.
Olyvar, 10,  11,  12, 13, 14, 15, 16, 17, 18, 19,
20, 21, 22, 23, 30, 31, 33, 34, 35, 41, 43,
48, 160.
Olyver, 10, 11, 12, 35, 36, 37, 38.
Olywar, 41.
Oliver's horse, 88.
Onyon, 51.
Orders of General Court, 44.
Ordinary, 52, 67, 107.   (See f>inkeeper».)
I  Oremsby, 33.
I  Orraesby, 24.
Otis, 125.
Overseers of landing places, 2.
of fences, 4.
Oyster-shells, 98.
Packers of flesh and fish,  114, 118, 123, 129,
134, 143, 150, 154.
I  Pacey, 120.
}  Pacy, 124.
fPaddey, 122.
I    Paddy 123, 124, 125, 126, 127,128, 129, 130,
i      131,132, 133, 134, 135, 136, 137, 138, 140,
141, 143, 144, 145, 146, 147, 148.
LPady, 137, 139.
 - 191 - 
168                Index of Names.
Paddy's legacy, 148.
Pafflyn, 49.
{Pain, 138.
Paino, 81,95.
Pane, 37.
Payne, 72, 80, 97, 102, 133.
(  Painter, 36, 47, 97, 100.
)  Paynter, 13.
Pales, 12,  16,  32,  R8,  73,  75,  83, 89, 93, 100,
105, 115, 120, 142.
Palmer,9, 51,63, 85,120.
Parl<e, 103.
Parker, 38, .39,  42, 48, 54, 57, 60,  66, 68, 71,
73,  85,  103, 104, 105, 106, 107, 111, 129,
131, 157.
Parkes, 87, 124.
Parrisse, 95.
Parsons, 83.
Pasture, Common, 33.
Pattens and shores, 74.
Paving, 131.
Peapes, 72.
{Pearce, 106.
Pearse, 130.
Peirce, 1, 18, 29, 30,  40,  67, 134, 139, 143,
146, 154, 160.
Pierce, 29, 143.
Pircc, 69.
Pell, 25, 26.
Pcmberton, 12, 134, 140, 160.
J
Pemerton, 114.
Pemmerton, 23.
Pen, 145, 150.
Penn, 3, 9, 17, 19, 20, 27, 61, 67, 69, 70,  73,
79, 80, 81, 82, 83, 84, 85,  86, 87,  88,  89,
90, 91, 92, 93, 94, 96, 97, 98, 99, 100, 101,
102, 159.
Penne, 9, 10, 11, 16,  17, 18,  19, 20, 21, 22,
30, 31, 32, 33, 35, 36, 37,  38,  61, 62,  63,
65, 66, 93, 95, 160.
t Peniman, 59.
J Penniman, 80, 81.
( Pennyman, 3, 8, 16, 18, 38, 47, 160.
Pepy's purchase, 72.
Perambulating bounds, 95, 106, 119, 135, 146,
155.
Porkus, 107.
{Pcrrie, 59.
Perry, 31, 43, 45, 48, 67, 75,  76,  80,  82, 85,
86.
Perrye, 36.
Perrust, 139.
Petition to General Court, 112, 148.
Pcttit, £2.
(  Philips, 92, 136, 139, 143, 156.
J
Phillips, 99, 100, 130.
Philpott, 68.
Phipeny, 92.
Phippcn, 63, 84.
Physicians, 81, 89, 156.
Piggott, 124.
Pighogg, 113.
Pilbeam, 97.
Pillars, 144, 146.
Pincheon, 11.
I'itch, hrating of, 142.
Pitney, ill.
Piltman, 130.
Place, 49.
I  Plaintaj'ne, 74.
t  Playntayne, 66.
Planting-grounds, 5, 13, 32, 37.
Poflcr, 49.
Pole and swob for fires, 114.
Pollard, 104, 105, 131, 136, 144, 148.
Poll-ta.xos, HI.
Toole, 131.
Poor, town, 4, 6, 8, 148, 158.
Porch, 70, 93, 94, 111, 127, 137, 144, 148, 157.
Pormont, 5, 25, 27.
Porter, 31, 78, 95.
Posta at Everett's lane, 129.
and roils, 55, 106.
Potter, 44.
Pound, 60,132.
Pounder or Pound-keeper, 80, 86,  119, 123,
l.:5, 136.
Powder, 155.
Powder-horn creek, 57.
Powell, 111.
I  Pownding, 114.
/  Pownlng, 143.
Prices to be fixed, 5, 6.
Pries, 126.
Prison, 70.
Protective regulations, 135.
Public houses to be closed on Sunday night,
148.
PuUen Point, 3, 5, 14,15, 18, 20, 21, 27, 28, 29,
30, 59, 85.
grants. 28, 30.
Pulling Point Gutt, 30.
Pump,""l01, 115, 141.
Purlon, 16, 24, 38, 58, 68, 69, 78.
Quay, 63.
(  Qunscy, 2, 6, 7, 9, 14.
I
Qiuinsye, 101.
{Rainsford, 95, 142.
Randsford, 51.
Ransford, 117.
Ransforde, 160.
liaynsford, 141.
Rate, 2, 58, 65, 67, 71, 72, 75, 77, 78, 80, 84. 86,
88, 83, 90, 92, 96, 99, 106, 107, 111, 12^
125, 127, 130, 132, 133, 140, 153, 156.
rRawlines, 81.
< Rawlings, 35.
(.Rawlins, 121,128.
Rawson, 157, 160.
("Raynolds, 53, 55.
Renolds, 85, 92.
I
Reynolde, 25.
[ Reynolds, 25, 34, 66, 134.
(Read, 81, 103, 108,118, 146.
{ Reade, 23, 36, 49, 114, 127, 130.
(Reed. 118, 123.
Recorder, 8'J, KO, 103, 108, 119, 123, 129, 134
141, 150, l.)5, 161.
Regiment, the Boston, 110.
Riall, 54.
Rico, 59.
Richards, 123, 138, 142, 143.
r Richardson, 85, 95, 120.
< Richison, 04, 96.
(.Richisson,142.
Rider, 115, 126.
River Charles, 18, 19, 23, 24, 48, 61, 62.
fMonctocott, 48.
Monityeott, 19.
Monot:icott, 54.
I   Monotocot, 66, 77, 79.
j  Monotocott, 55, 66.
Monittinott, 3S.
Monottycott, 7.
tMouotycott, 50.
Muddy (now Brookline), 2, 4, 6, 7, 8
13, 14, 15, 16, 17, 22, 23, 31, 33, 34, 35
36, 37, 38, 39, 41, 42, 4J,44. 45, 40, 47,
48,  51,  52, 53, 54, 55, 56, 57, 59, 60
61, 6S, 6S, 69, 71, 90, 93, 95, 107, 108,
110, 112, 114, 115, 118, H9, 121, 122!
123,  124,  125, 120, 133, 134, 135, 136,
140, 147, 149, 150, 154, 158, 159.
Naponsct, 67.
North, 2.
Saugust, 28.
Robtts, 1 18.
Robertsonnc, 53.
Robins, 149, 150, 152.
Robinson, 116, 142.
j  Rock, 115, 116, 118, 122, 129, 130.
jRocke, 114.
Rockett, 50.
 - 192 - 
Index of Names.               169
fRocksberry, 9.
Hocksburic, 4, 10, 25, 53, 60.
Kocksbury, 27, 67, 69, 74, 80, 81, 84, 119.
Rosbury, i>9.
lioxbury, 10,  19,  26, 34, 39, 43, 47, 52, 57,
123, 124, 146.
gate, 4, 43, 53, 74, 81, 84, 99.
marsh near, 69.
creek Dear, 43.
neck towards, 4.
liodcs, 148.
Roe, 166.
Rogers, 51, 69, 118, 120.
(  TiOote, 123, 146.
]  Roott, SO, 107.
(  Route, 23.
Rose, 49.
Ruck, 116.
{Ruggcls, 58.
Rugglc, 19, 37, 59, 65, 69, 71, 79, 82, 84.
Rugglcs, 82, 84, 92.
Rugle, 72.
Rust, 104.
Bait, measures of, 152.
Salter, 24, 33, 52, 69, 74, 102, 140, 143, 160.
Saltpetre-house, 70.
Salutes, 155.
I  Saraford, 3, 13, 15, 19, 20, 129, 150.
}  Sampford, 3, 5, 6, 7, 9, 10, H, 12, 13.
Sampson, 10.
Sand, digging of, 67.
{  Sanders, 71, 84,92,116.
I
Saunders, 19, 31, 43, 47, 58, 59, 96, 97.
Sanderson, 123, 138.
fSandford, 59,78,120,
Sanford, 14, 15, 16, 17, 19, 20, 21, 22, 27,29,
\      30, 31.
Sanfurd, 137.
[Sannford, 2
Sands, 107.
Sandy beach, 28.
Saugust, 28.
iSavag,
58.
Savage, 9,  13, 16, 37, 43, 51, 53, 58, 70, 75.
77, 78, 103,  108, 109, 110, 112, 113, 118,
128,  132, 134, 137, 141,  149,  154,  167,
I
159.
[Savidgo, 44,45, 92, 160.
Saw-pits, 12, 53.
Scarlett, 53.
Scholars at Harvard, 113.
School free, 65, 82, 92, 94, 95, 97, 99, 124, 125,
123, 130, 133, 140.
house, 109, 129, 132, 142.
master, 5, 80, 99, 100.
(Scott, 32, 37,  55,  100,  114,  141,  148, 149,
150.
(  Skot. 06.
fScotto, 46, 83, 86, 97, 107, 114, 115, 117, 127,
134, 135, 138, 140, 141, 143, 144, 145, 146,
147, 148, 150, 153.
Scottoc, 16, 31,45, 78.
Scottow, 38, 137, 139, 149, 151, 153, 154, 155,
,              156, 157, 158.
I.  Scottua, 23, 62.
Sea-bank, 12, 70.
Staberry, 43.
Seaborne, 42.
Sealers of weights and measures, 100, 103,
lOS, 119, 123, 129, 134, 144, 150, 155.
I  Search, 63, 85, 88.
|Serch,Cl,
Selectmen (called Ten men,p. 2; called Nine
men, p.  65; and generally the Town's
mc:i) ,   2, 9, 11, 16, 20, 34, 35, 3G, 41,44, .55,
61, 05, 70, 72, 79,  84, 90, 92, 94, 99,  103,
108, 113, 118, 122, 128, 134, 143, 150, 154.
Selectmen, powers of,  and instructions to,
103, 114, 1.50, 1.54.
expenses paid, 20.
refreshments for, 63, 68.
Sellecke, 75.
Bellen,33.
(  Sendall, 122.
(  Syndall, 128.
(  Senctt, 117.
{ Senot, 95.
(  Sinnott, 32, 49.
Servants' time, 142.
Seward, 141.
Scwcll, 111.
Sharpe, 49.
Shattoke, 111.
Shiiw, 97, 153,
Shawes, 122.
( Sheafe, 143, 144, 145, 146, 147, 148, 149,150,
157.
( Sheaffe, 108, 144.
Sheep, 89, 123, 137, 144.
Sheffield, 127.
Shelley, 20. 46.
Shelton, 15.
i
Shepherd, 131, 144, 152.
/  Shcppard, 50.
Sherman, 17, 19, 34, 42, 44, 53, 62, 69.
Sherman's cow-house, 42, 53.
Ship building, 58, 59.
I  Shoors, 86.
;  Shore, 03, 78, 127.
Shops, 19, 38, 73, 76, 78,  80, 82, 83, 98, 113,
135, 140.
Shop-window boards, 79.
Shrimpton, 40, 45, 122, 123, 134.
Simons, 49, 71, 74, 117.
Sinderland, 103.
Slaughter-house, 70.
f Smith, i-,0,  55,
69, 71,  80,  83,  104, 120, 127,
i      137, 139, 142.
[Smyth, 11,41,94, 96.
Snelling, 156.
(  Snow, 26.
(  Snowe, 14.
Sods not to be dug, 90.
Soldiers pressed, 121, 122.
Somcrtshire, 34.
Somes, 152.
South end (south of the Mill Creek), 105.
Sowell, 139.  .
Sowers, 113
Sowthor, 97.
Spalle, 95.
Spanish captives, 157.
i  Spoor, 45.
I  Spoore, 34.
Spring, the, 130, 159.
Staines, 149.
(  8tanberrye,95.
I
Stanbnrle, .58.
Stande brook, 7.
Stanford, 18.
I  Stanley, 9, 54, 58, 92, 95, 100.
|St.anly, 71, 72,74,79.
j
Stannyon, 32.
(  Stanyarne, 02.
States' Arm Tavern, 115.
Steadman, 149.
fStebbins, 91, 112,126,131.
i Stebin, 147, 153.
(.Stebins, lOtf, 107.
Steedsonne, 57.
(  Stephens, 49.
;  Stevens, 62, 71, 106, 129.
Stevenson, 90.
;  Stivinson, 129.
Stidson, 28,29,30.
Stocker, 108, 118, 123.
rstodard, 134, 154, 157.
Stoddard, 42, 46, 78, 92, 94,  95, 96,  97, 98,
{      99, 100, 101, 102, 103, 104, 105, 106, 107,
112, 149.
(.Stodder, 62, 65, 75, 83, 89, 90, 91.
Stone, 139.
Stony brooke, 21.
Storcr, 43.
Stoughton, 90.
Strange, 95.
Strangers forbidden, 10, 90, 109, 162.
 - 193 - 
170               Index of Names.
Strangers not to hire houses, 103.
bonds and fines for entertaining,
104, 106,  113,  115, 116,  120,  121,
127, 131),  131, 135,  13y, 140, 141,
149, 151, 152, 160.
Streets.  (See Waija.)
to be kept clear, 98.
Strong waters, sale of, 116.
Styles and gates, 4.
Sudbury, 10.
Sudbury, end, 10.
Suits prohibited, 5
Sumner, 122.
Surveyors of Highways, 7, 16, 35, 55, 63, 73,
90, 92, 94, 99, 103, 108, 114, 118, 122, 129,
134, 143, 100, 154.
Swamp.  (See Marsh.)
Cedar, 2Z, 23, 24, 146, 147, 159.
Pyne, 48.
( Sweet, 78.
{ Sweete, 59.
( Swett, 121.
Swine, orders about, 3, 4,  10, 32, 35, 39, 40,
54, 60,  68,  69,  73,  74,  75, 85, 91, 92, 100,
103, 109, 115, 119, 123, 124, 128, 131, 145,
147, 148, 151.
Talbott, 105.
Talmage, 14, 20, 60, 128, 160.
Tan-houso, 126, 155.
Tan-vats, 148.
Tappin, 24.
Tarne, 57, 60, 72, 111.
Taunton, 79.
Path, 79.
Tayer, 50.
j
Taylor, 96, 113, 122, 123, 126, 129, 141.
I  Taylour, 66.
Tax, 2.   (Sec naie.)
abated, 71.
lists prepared, 111,
Teffe, 36, 37, 51, 79.
Terry, 149.
Tethcrly, 131.
i
'I'hayer, 139.
}  Thayre, 111.
Thomas E    ,   7.
Thomas, 56, 58, 83, 90, 121, 152, 15T.
(  Thompson, 47.
I  Tomson, 80.
Thurstone, 102.
Thwing, 68.
Timber, 12, 54, 77, 80, 103.
Ting, 21, 41, 44, 45, 46, 47, 48, 51, 52, 54,
55, 56, 57, 58, 59, 60, 61, 92,99, 101, 103,
104, 105, 106, 107.
Tinge, 12, 35, 41, 42. 43, 44, 45, 52, 55, 56,
^      58, 90, 92, 93, 95, 99, 103, 104, 105, 106,
I
107.
Tyng, 112.
I  Tynge, 61, 62, 63, 64, 65, 66. 67, 68, 69, 70,
71, 72, 73,  74,  75, 76, 78, 79, 80, 84, 85,
[       86, 154, 159.
Tobacco, 111, 151.
iTourner, 87, 88, 89, 94.
Turner, 16,  26,  38,  62, 63,  68,  73, 81, 112,
119, 123, 145, 150, 153, 156.
Town-house, 126, 155.
Town8end,24.
Townsmen. (See Selectmen.)
Toy, 68, 128, 129.
Trask, 1.
Treasurer, 4, 53.
of town, 53,  55,  61, 62, 66, 69, 86,
92,  100, 101, 103,  108,  119, 123,
129, 134, 144, 150, 155.
of county, 159.
Trees, injury to, 124.
( Truesdale, 7.
I Truesdayle, 9.
f Trusdalo, 112.
j Turell, 139.
)  Turrell, 98, 188.
Turf. 54.
Turin, 128.
'Toutliill, 119.
Tuthil!,70, 71, 72,106,108.
Tuttell, 9,  10, 11, 28, 29, 33, 30, 37, 43, 136,
100.
.   Tuttill, 123, 155.
LTuttle, 35.
Tytus, 25, 26.
Unclaimed goods, 46.
Undorhill, 1, 8, 14, 25, 20, 39.
S
Upsall, 154.
>  Upshall, 80, 121.
Usher, 103,  107, 114, 120, 134, 149, 150, 151,
153, 154, 155, 156, 157, 168.
Vane, 5, 8, 18, 27, 160.
(  Vener, 101.
(  Venner, 95.
I  Viall, 95.
I  Vyall. 47, 108, 135, 155.
Victualling houses, 10, 112.  (See Ordinary.)
Virginia, 2.
fWaight, 95.
i W.'iite, 111.
[Wayle, 1,9, 31.
Wakefield, 152.
Waker, 93, 95, 97.
Walden, 143.
Wales, 121, 132.
Walker, 9, 25, 27, 31,39, 52, 53,  63, 106, 127,
133, 150.
Walker, Robert, his house, 52, 63.
f Ward, 22, 23, 91, b3, 94, 96,  97, 108, 120,
^      133, 142, 154.
(.  Warde, 95.
Wardall, 5, 15, 25, 32.
Ware, 113, 140.
Warren, 58.
Waste land, 80, 83.   (Sec Common.)
Watch, 8, 115.
Water bailiffs, 11, 74, 98, 129, 150, 153, 164.
channel, 80.
mill, 105, 113.
Waters, 155.
Watertown, 24, 69, 136.
(  Way, 130, 136, 137, 154.
i
Waye, 119.
i  Waymouth, 96.
)  Wamoth, 7.
Ways, (including streets, lanes, and alleys),
to Koxbury, 10, 16, 99.
to J. Pcmberton, 12, 13, 120.
between H. Lynn and S. Cole, 13.
by J. Gallop's, 13.
to the Mill Cove, 13.
from Cove to Cove, 13.
by Mr. Hutchinson's, 38.
by II. Pease, 39.
to the Creek, 40.
to Centry Hill, 52, 60,155, 156.
by J. Lowe's, 66.
towards Roxbury, 67, 80, 99.
to Charlestown, 69, 71, 74, 95.
from town to town adjoining, 67.
on the sea bank, 70.
by T. Joy, 77.
to the Fort, 71.
near the windmill and gardens, 72.
through the mill field, 73.
towards Gallop's point, 76.
to the South windmill, 78, 85.
by Rawlins', 81.
at head of the cove, 82, 99.
to Perry's wharf, 86, 87.
from Perry's house, 87.
at HalsoU's wharf, 8S.
by Stoughton's land, 90.
by Anderson's, 91.
over the water-course, 94,
to the bridge, 94, 96.
 - 194 - 
Index of Najmes.                  171
Ways, by Butman's, 98.
by the new meeting house, 99.
nt North end, 100.
from Battery to Cbarlestown ferry,
100.
to Ferry point, 100.
from Gallop's point to Battery, 100.
at Ilumney M:irsh, 101.
by R. Fairbanks', 103, 104.
to the Wiiidmy.l, 107.
old way by T. Hawkins, 113.
to Ward's wharf, 120.
to the raill-cove, 120.
to John Barren's, 126.
by Phillips' house, 130, 156.
by Shrinipton's, 134.
from Phillips' to Duncan's, 139.
from Pen's to Gentry Hill, 145, 150.
to Gentry Hill, 150.
through Jolin.son's marsh, 156.
{Web, 101, 100, 107, 137, 138.
Webb, 31, 55, 58. 61, 122, 131, 146, 158.
Webbe, 20, 62, 65, 66, 73.
Weeb.'JO, 94.
Webb's legacy, 158.
Weeden, 66, 122.
Weights and measures.  (See Sealers of.)
Well, 7(J, 101, 124, 141.
Welles, 49.
("W^enborne, 114.
J Wenbournc, 119.
j
Winbourne, 93.
[Wiuburne, 140.
rWenesemetl, 119.
Winnescmet, 79.
J Winnesemett, 62, 81.
]  Winnesimet, 58.
Winnisimett, 7, 57.
[Wynesemitt, 29.
Westmoreland, 112.
( Weyborne, 95.
\ Wibourne, 118.
( Wiburne, 114.
Wharf, 37, 54, 62, 63, 76, 78, 79, 80, 84, 86, 87,
90, 91, 93, 97, 98, 102,  103,  106,  107, 110,
112, 113, 119, 139, 156.
(  Wheelar, 14, 78.
I  Wheeler, 32, 43.
Wheelwright, 15, 17, 45, 40.
I  Wheelewright, 75, 80.
Whipping-post, 40.
White, 80, 119, 122, 123, 149, 151, 159.
Whitmore, 1.
Whitwell, 107, 112, 126, 132, 139.
iWilbore, 2, 7. 19,21, 34.
Wiiebore, 4, 31.
Wvlebore, 10.
Wilbore's lield end, 10.
Wilkes, 3, 12, 34, 100.
r Williams. 68,  76,  108,  114, 122, 134, 146,
J
154, 155, 156, 167, 158.
i Willyams,42.
l.WillmB,120.
( Willis, 2, 53, 87, 88, 89.
\  Willys, 5, 28, 36, 160.
(  Witls, 93, 95, 130.
{Willson, 2, 36, 37, 115, 137, 145.
Wilson, 4, 6,  7, 9, 10, 11, 12, 15, 16, 24, 33,
49, 77, 96,  160.
Wilsonne, 60.
Winchester, 16, 17, 26, 47, 150.
Windmill, 70, 71, 72, 73, 78, 79, 98, 105,  107,
108, 109, 126.
Wing, 48, 02, C6. 68.
{Winthorp, 92, 120.
Winthrop, 1.  3,  8, 27, 29, 30, 44, 45, 48, 51,
54, 56, 57,_58, 59, 60, 01 ,  62, 03, 65, 66, 67,
hO, Si',  82,  b3,  84, 'sj,' 86,' 87^ 88^ 8'.^ 92,'
100, 103, 108, 109, 110, 120, 133, 160.
Winthropp, 21, 27,29, 52, 55, 58, 59.
Wiseman, 50, 123.
Wolf, 140.
Wood, cutting of, 2, 4, 7, 13, 82, 92, 125.
corders of, 123, 129.
storing, 60.
Woodard, 128.
Woodwarde, IS,  22, 24, 43, 55, 78, SO, 88,
Woodwarde, 9.
Woodbndge, 82.
J
Wooddy, 107.
)  Woody, 133, 141, 144.
Woodhowse, 21.
( Woodmancye, 116.
? Woodmansey, 99, 139.
i Woodmansy, 109, 148.
Woolcott, 11.
\  Wormall, 141.
I  Wormwall, 97.
j  Wright, 6, 7, 9, 15, 17, 37, 45, 47,
(   Wrighte, 9.
Wyatt, 127,
Youth, Idle, 133, 156, 160.
 - 195 - 
 - 196 - 
PART II.
THE BOOK OF  POSSESSIONS.
 - 197 - 
 - 198 - 
INTRODUCTION.
When the  first  edition of this  book was prepared,  the
writer furnished a sketch of such facts as were obtainable in
regard to its history and proliable authorship.   The sugges-
tion was then made that this list of land-owners was made in
1652,  after  the discharge of William Aspinwall from the
post  of Recorder of Sutlblk County.  Various indications
favored this  surmise,  but it  becomes entirely untenable in
view of the fact that some of the entries are evidently in the
handwriting of Aspinwall.   This fact was proved by Uriel
H. Crocker, Esq., who publishedthree fac-similes of Aspin-
wall's signature, two from other sources, and one from this
book, page 33.   The true date and author are matters to be
considered later.
In regard to the " Book " the following testimony is  inter-
esting.   It is on a slip of paper, in the library of the Massa-
chusetts Historical Society, in a volume entitled "Letters
and Papers, Boston, 1631-1783," in cabinet 61, H.
"These may Certify whome it  may Concern, That when I
came first into the office  of Clerk of the  County Court of
Suffolk in the year 1(572 I there found a Booke Entituled on
the Cover Possessions of the Inhabitants of Boston, which I
many times lookt into and extracted several things out of it
at the desire of particular persons, but alwaies was in  doubt
of the validity of it  as a llecord.   And it  remained in the
office at the time when I was dismissed.
IsA.  Addington."
Succeeding generations,  however, have placed a higher
value on this book, and it is  now recognized as the founda-
tion of the title of most of the real estate of the old portion
of the city.   The volume itself, now in the custody of the
City Clerk,  was evidently prepared on a plan of giving a
half-page to each person, and of entering under his name a
list of his lands.   The first 111 pages appear to  have been
written at one time, or at  least the first  entries under each
name are all in one handwriting.   After that the pages fol-
 - 199 - 
IV          City Document No. 46.
—
Part 2.
low with dates appended, but in regular succession, as the
following examples show :  —
.112-20,
 - 200 - 
Introduction.                   v
14, Thomas Leverett, 30, 1  mo. 1646
95, William Blantuiiie, 27, 4 mo. 1646
19, John Davics, 23, 8 mo. 1646
84, Eichai-d Carter, 2, 9 mo. 1646
73, John Stevenson, 5, 11 mo. 1646
14, Edmmid Jackson, 1,12 mo. 1646
79, Edward Jacklin, 22, 3 mo. 1647
The inference is almost irresistible, that in the 11th month,
1645, Mr. Aspinwall began to continue the pievious record
of 111 pages, adding new pages for new names, and record-
ing new transactions under the old ones.
It is  well known that  our General Court, on April  1st,
1634, ordered that a survey of the houses and lands of every
inhabitant in every toAvn should be made, and a transcript
sent to the  Court within six  months.  This law was, evi-
dently, only partially obeyed, as late  as  September, 1639,
when Stephen Winthrop was made Recorder.   In Septem-
ber, 1642, Mr. Winthrop Avas allowed to go to England, and
November 13, 1644, William Aspinwall was chosen Recorder
till the next Court of Election.   Jf the Book of Possessions
be in Aspinwall's writing, it would seem most probable that
he compiled the 111 pages during the year 1645, following
his appointment.
On p. 4 of the original  Richard Bellingham has recorded
a piece of marsh, " with John Hills and the highway on the
west :    the Common Marsh on the north :   John Lowe on the
east :    Henry Symons, John Hills andthe Cove on the south."
This seems to be the lot granted by the town to Bellingham,
27, 11 mo., 1644, after another strip was granted to Joshua
Scottow.
Again :    Thomas Scottow  (p.  64)  is  entered  as  owning
the lot on School street, which he sold to the town, 31st, 1
mo., 1645.   Certainly this transaction musthave been known
very soon to all  the inhabitants, as the house and lot were
bought for the town's use.
So, again, Suff. Deeds, i.  59, has a deed dated 4th, 2 mo.,
1645, recorded 21st  same month, of Edmund Jackson to
Thomas Leverett, three acres on the new field.   In the Book
of Possessions it  still  stands as number two of  Jackson's
lot.
It seems that Valentine Hill was an early ownerof land on
the east side of State street.   Our town records, p. 28 of
original, show that 25th, 1 mo., 16-^9, he had leave to Iniild
a  house and shop on the lot  which he  had l)ought  from
William  Aspinwall.   By SutF.  Deeds, i.   100, it  seems he
sold this lot, house, and shop, to David Sellick, 24, 12, 1641,
 - 201 - 
VI          City Document No. 46.
—
Part 2.
and also 1st, 6 mo., 1641, to Mary Friend, a quarter of an
acre  bounded by the  street  south,  Sellick  west,  Edward
Tyng east, and said Hill north.   These deeds were recorded
27, (12,) 1648.
But in the Book of Possessions Valentine Hill's lots then
were, first, one on the west side of Washington street,  the
prison west, the meeting-house and Truesdale north :    Sedge-
wick south ;    and secondly a lot beyond Valley Acre :   while
David Sellick is named in the Book of Possessions, p. 55,
as owner of the lot which he has bought.
So, again,  Suff.  Deeds,i.  60, record a deed to AVilliam
Davies  from Valentine Hill,  apparently of part of his lot,
with  the  prison  garden  west, the  street east,  Philemont
Portmont and the meeting-house  north,  and the  ordinary
in the possession of James Pen, south ;    dated and recorded
20th, 3d mo., 1645.
These items all seemto confirm the idea that the compilation
of these 111 pages was made by Aspinwall very soon after
his appointment, taking no note of sales  even in  the early
months of 1645.
It must be remembered, however, that the record is  not
complete.   We find many instances of persons put doAvn as
abutters  on lots  described,  and yet  no record  of  those
persons as distinct  owners.  At the  same time  the  first
volume of deeds contains but few entries in regard to trans-
fers of land in  Boston at that  date.   In fact,  in  order to
understand the entries in the Book of Possessions it is often
necessar\' to refer to deeds two or three generations later,
when the land was sold by measurement and description.
At a meeting of the General Court, Oct. 19, 1652, it  was
voted, that,  Avhereas  the  passing  of  houses  and land in
England was efiectually done in  various ways, and whereas
certain  in  this  jurisdiction  are  apt to rest upon a verbal
bargain or sale for houses or lands, henceforth no such sale
should be good in law unless made by deed in writing, under
hand and seal and delivered, or possession given, etc., unless
the deed be acknowledged according to law and recorded.
(Rec, iii.  280.)
They had previously,  June  19,  1650  (Rec., iii.   203),
provided that a sale recorded by the recorder of the county
should be sufficient  Avithout  any further certifying  to the
Secretary of the General Court.
May 6,  1657 (Rec, iii.   422), the  Court recites,  "The
great  neglect  of many persons,  in  the  infimcy  of these
plantations, to  observe any due order or legal course for the
confirmation of such sales and alienation of houses and lauds
as have  passed," and then  orders that every one who did,
 - 202 - 
Introduction.                  vii
before  the passage of the law of 1G52, possess or  occupy
house or land ia fee simple, should ever after this  date hold
the same, unless a counter-claim  was prosecuted to  effect
within live years from May 20, 1657.
The result was that long afterwards deeds and depositions
were recorded, of which the following is an example :  —
In Suffolk Deeds, lib. 12, f.  364, is  the deposition dated
May 5, 1683, of William Dawes, aged 64, and wife Susanna,
that they lived in Boston from 1652 and before, and that Mr.
Simon Eyre, physician, in  the. said year 1652, lived in and
possessed the very same house in Boston where his son John
now lives, adjoining upon the ground that was Mr. liichard
Parker's and the Prison land.
Again :  manyestates were settled byorder of the Court, and
the record is to be sought in the Proljate files  instead of the
Registry of Deeds.  The note-book of Thomas Lechford,
the  first  lawyer in  the  colony,  fortunately  preserved  in
manuscript, contains doubtless memoranda in regard to early
transfers  of land.   Aspinwall refers to one volume of his
records as notary public (see p. 54), and even to a second
Bookof Possessions.   (See original, pp. 43, 50, 73, 88, 129.)
His "Book of Mortgages" (see p. 14)  seems to be volume
first of Suffolk Deeds.  The " great  booke of Records  of
Copies, etc." (p. 77), may be the same.
October 14th or 23d, 1651, Mr. Aspinwall was set aside
from his ofiices, Mr. Rawson was made Recorder of Suffolk,
and Jonathan Negoos was made clerk of the writs for Boston.
This, of course, fixes the latest  date for  the compilation of
the Book of Possessions.
It may be well to state here that, in  1866, the late Wm.
Appleton made a map of the locations of the lots  of the
owners mentioned in the Book of Possessions, and printed a
fewcopies.   The scale is about 16 inches by 12 inches.   Mr.
George Lamb has prepared a map 9 ft.  4 in. by 5 ft.  4 in.,
undertaking to  mark thereon the  outlines  of the  several
estates.   This map was purchased by the Trustees of the
Public Library.   It has been photographed in nine sections,
and copies have been distributed  for corrections.   It  is  a
very creditable beginning, but the boundary lines are purely
imaginary,  and will  require  almost entire  revision.   This
must be the work of years, if  correctness be attainable at
all.
The more modest plans and descriptions prepared by Mr.
Justin Winsor, for the second volume of the  "Memorial
History of Boston," are reproduced in the appendix to this
volume, and will be found most serviceable.
 - 203 - 
VIII          City Document No. 46. —Part 2.
It  is  hoped that the work herem performed will  prove
accurate and durable.  As successive volumes are printed,
information will  increase, but it does not seem probable that
anything can lessen the value of the Book of Possessions.
William H. Whitmore,
William S.  Appleton,
Record Commissioners.
 - 204 - 
TABLE OF  OWNERS.
The following list gives the  names of the  persons whose
possessions are herein recorded.   The references are to the
pages of the original volume, which pagination is placed in
the text in heavy figures, enclosed in brackets.
W. H. W.
Anderson, John, 125.
Arnold, John, 22.
Aspinwall, William, 77.
Baker, John, 143.
Barrell, George, 49.
Bates, George, 47.
Baxter, Nicholas, 106.
Beamont, Thomas, 131.
Beamsley, William, 20.
Beck, Alexander, 40.
Belchar, Edward, 85.
Bell, Thomas, 111.
Bellingham, Richard, 5.
Bendall, Edward, 53.
Bennett, Richard, 145.
Biggs, John, 40.
Bishop, Nathaniel, 72.
Blantaine, William, 95.
Blott, Robert, 80.
Bosworth, Zaccheus, 73.
Bourne, Nehemiah, 22.
Bourne, Garret, 89.
Bowen, Griffith, 92.
Brisco, William, 87.
Browne, Edward, 106.
Browne, Henry, 141.
Browne, William, 130.
Browne, James, 41.
Burden, George, 45.
Busbie, Nicholas, 116.
Buttolph, Thomas, 42.
Button, John, 48.
Carter, Richard, 84.
Chaffie, Matthew, 33.
Chamberlaine, William, 132.
Chappell, Nathaniell, 33.
Cheevers, Bartholomew, 21.
Clarke, Arthur, 127.
Clarke, Christopher, 136.
Clarke, Thomas, 27.
Clarke, Thomas, 82.
Coggan, John, 51.
Cole, John, 32.
Cole, Samuel, 26.
Cole,      -, 92.
Coleborn, William, 85.
Compton, John, 67.
Cooke, Richard, 74.
Copp, William, 15.
Corser, WiUiam, 60.
Cotton, John, 9.
Cranwell, John, 89.
Croychle}', Richard, 65.
Cullimer, Isaac, 30.
t)avies, James, 59.
Davies, .John, 19.
Davies,William,apothecary',144.
Davies, William, Sr., 57.
Davies, William, .Jr., 56.
Deming, William, 104.
Dennis, Edmund, 78.
Dinsdale, William, 70.
Douglas, William, 142.
Dowse, Francis, 47.
Dunster,        ,   11.
East, Francis, 99.
Eaton, Nathaniel, 98.
1^      Eliot, Jacob, 88.
 - 205 - 
City Docu^ient No. 46. —Part 2.
Engles, Madid, 104.
Everill, James, 50.
Fairbanks, Richard, 60.
Fane, Henry, 37.
Fawer, Barnabas, 133.
Fish, Gabriel, 16.
Fletcher, Edward, 100.
Fletcher, Roger, 115.
Flint, Mr., 81.
Foster, Thomas, 109.
Fowle, Thomas, 6.
Foxcroft, George, 53.
Franklin, William, 52.
Gallop, John, 34.
Gibones, Edward, 8.
Gillom, Benjamin, 66.
Glover, John, 44.
Goodwin, Edward, 16.
Greames, vSamnel, 46.
Gridley, Richard, 105.
Griggs, George, 110.
Grosse, Edmund, 25.
Grosse, Isaac, 56.
Grnbb, Thomas, 77.
Gunnison, Hugh, 44.
Hailestone, "William, 117.
Hansett, John, 120.
Harker, Anthon}', 82.
Harrison, .John, 105.
Haugh, Atherton, 8.
Hawkins, James. 34.
Hawkins, Capt. Thomas, 23.
Hawkins, Thomas, 41.
Hil)bins, AVilliam, 7.
Hill, John, 26.
Hill, Valentine, 62.
Hogg. Richard, 98.
HoUich, Richard, 111.
Houtchin. Jeremy, 37.
Howen, Robert, 13.
Hudson, Francis, 32.
Hudson, William, Sr., 57.
Hudson, William, Jr., 45.
Hull, Robert, 96.
Ilunne.Aune,wid. of George,48.
Ilurd. .John. 95.
Hutchinson, Edward, 68.
Hutchinson, Richard, 63.
lyons  (otherwise  Irons),  Ma-
"
thew, 107.
Jacklin, Edward, 79.
Jackson, Edmund, 14.
Jackson, John, 23.
Jephson, John, 124.
Johnson, James, 20.
Jones, Rice, 149.
Jov, Thomas, 28.
Judkin, Job, 96.
Keayne, Robert, 10.
Kenrick, John, 71.
Kirkby, William, 35.
Knight, Sarah, 46.
Lake, John. 138.
Langdon, John, 148.
Lawson, Christopher, 112.
Leger, Jacob, 84,
Letherland, WiHJam, 107.
Leverit, John, oi.
Leverit, John, 61.
Leverit, Thomas, 14.
Lippincott, Richard, 128.
Low, John, 28.
Lugg, John, 75.
Lyle, Francis, 76.
Makepeace, Thomas, 38.
Marshall, John, 97.
Marshall, Thomas, 27.
Mason, Raph, 83.
Mattox, James, 134.
Maud, Daniel, 12.
Meeres, Robert, 36.
Mellows, John, 15.
Merry, Walter, 19.
Messinger, Henry, 64.
Michell, George,'l47.
Millard, Thomas, 76.
Milom, John, 30.
Munt, Thomas, 108.
Nannev, Robert, 113.
Nash, James, 137.
Nash, Robert, 52.
Negoos, Benjamin, 103.
Negoos, Jonathan, 109.
Newgate, John, 12.
Odlin, John, 93.
Offley, David, 90.
Oliver, James, 54.
Oliver, .John, 24.
Oliver, Thomas, 13.
Page, Abraham, 119.
Painter, Thomas, 50.
Palmer. John, Sr., 102.
Palmer, .John, Jr., 101.
Parker, Jane, 80.
 - 206 - 
Table of Oavners.                 XI
Parker, Nicholas, 72.
Parker, Richard, 61.
Parsons, William, 58.
Pasmor, Bartholomew, 31.
Pease, Henrv, 17.
Pell, William, 69.
Pelton, John, 91.
Pen, James, 71.
Perry, Arthur, 75.
Phillips, John, 140.
PhiUits, William, 43.
Phippeni, David, 31.
Phippeni, Joseph, 123.
Pierce, William, 55.
Pope, Ephraim, 78.
Rainsford, Edward, 90.
Rawlins, Richard, 29.
Reinolds, Robert, 101.
Rice, Robert, 70.
Richardson, Amos, 102.
Rowe, Owen, 9]
.
Roote, Raph, 87.
Salter, William, 88.
Sanford, Richard, 36.
Savage, Thomas, 24.
Scott, Robert, 58.
Scotto, Joshua, 39.
Scotto, Thomas, 64.
Seabeny, John, 18.
Sedgwick, Robert, 63.
Sellick, David, 55.
Sherman, Richard, 68.
Shoare, Sampson, 35.
Shrimpton, Henry, 118.
Sinet, Walter, 93.
Smith, Francis, 126.
Smith, John, 18.
Spoore, John, 69.
Stanley, Christopher, 43.
Stevenson, John, 73.
Straine, Richard,  146.
Sweete, John, 17.
Symons, Henry, 29.
Synderland, John, 74.
Tahnage, William, 86.
Tapping, Richard, 65.
Teft, William, 108.
Thwing, Benjamin, 38.
Townsend, William, 79.
Truesdale, Richard, 62.
Turner, Robert, 135.
Tuttle, Anne, 21.
Tyng, Edward, 54.
Tyng, William, 10.
Usher, Hezekiah, 121.
Vyall, John, 129.
Waite, Gamaliel, 103.
Waite, Richard, 100.
Walker, Robert, 86.
Ward, Benjamin, 66.
Webb, Henrv, 59.
Werdall, William, 25.
Wheeler, Thomas, 94.
White, Charity, 99.
Wiborne, Thomas, 139.
Willis, Nicholas, 49.
Wicks, William, 122.
Wilson, John, 11.
Wilson, William, 39.
Wing, Robert, 83.
Winthrop, Deane, 3.
Woodhouse, Richard,  110.
Woodward, Nathaniel, 67.
Woodward,   Nathaniel   (th€
elder),  97.
Woodward, Robert, 94.
 - 207 - 
 - 208 - 
THE BOOK OF POSSESSIONS.
[Nqte. —In the following transcript the abbreviations of the original have
be3n followed, exceptin regardto " wth," " wthin," " &," and "W^i^," respect-
ively printed ''with," "within," "and," "which."  These occurred so often
that exactness in copying would have disfigured the text greatly.   So. also,
the use of capitals in the words east, south, west, north, lias been abaiiduned,
as the original was very irregular, and a partial use would have made the text
less  easily understood.  The pagination of the original is  given herein in
brackets.  W. H. W.]
[3.] * The x>ossession of Jf. Deane Winthro]')]) within the Limits
of Boston.
One Farme at Piillen po3nt, coiiteineing aboitt one hundred and
twenty Acres, be it  more or lesse, bounded with M'. Pierces lott
on the north, the Bay and Fisher's  Cove on  the west :      Pullen
point on the south :    and the Sea on the cast.
6  (10)  1G4D.   Bridget Pierce and WilHam Pierce,  of Boston,
granted  unto  M''.  Deane Winthrop, of Boston, all  that  theire
Messuage and Farme at Pullen point (adjoinijig unto the Fariue of
the sd Deane Winthrop) ,   containeing one hundred Acres, be the
same more or lesse, with all the ottthouseing, fences, wood, and all
other appurtenances ;     and this  was by an absolute deed of sale,
dated U (11) 1G47.
Witnes  Wm. Aspinwal,    Bridget Pierce and a sealo.
John Evered,      William Pierce and a scale.
[4.]  Blank.
[5.]  The possession of Bicharfl BellingJiam, Es^., within the
Limits of Boston.
1.  One house and Lott about a quarter of an acre, bounded on
the east with the streete :    Christopher Stanley, John Biggs, James
Browne, and Alexander Becke on the south :   Joshua Scotto on the
west ;    and M"". William Tynge on the north.
2.  Also  a  garden  plott,  bounded with  M''.  John Cotton and
Daniell Maude on the north :     the highway uppon tlie  east :     John
Coggan on the south :     and
3.  Also a piece of marsh, bounded with  John Hills  and  the
highway on the west :     the  Common Marsh on the north :     John
Lowe on the east: Henry Symons, John Hills and the Cove on the
south.
Pages 1 and 2 are missing, if, indeed, they were more than a cover.
 - 209 - 
2          City Document No. 46. —Part 2.
[6.]  M"".   Thomas Foivle's  possession  loilhui  the  Limits  of
Boston.
1.  One house and garden, bounded with Walter Sinet on the
south :    Thomas Buttolph on the east :    the highstreete on the west
;
and Jacob Leger on the north.
[7.]  Thepossessions of M". William Hibbins within the Limits
of Boston.
1.  One house,  garden and stable,  bounded  with  M'^.   John
Winthrop's on the west :     Richard Sherman and some part of the
Fortt streete on the south :    the Springate on the north :    and John
Spoore on the east.
2.  Also sixe score Acres of land at  Muddy River, bounded with
M^ Thomas Oliver on the north :    Edward Bendall on the west
:
together with Thomas Snowe and AVillm. Tahnidge :     Boston Com-
mon on the south :    and Roxbury bounds south cast.
3.  Also twenty-fyve Acres of Marsh at Muddy River, bounded
[by] Muddy River, Charles River, and a creeke in foime of an
Isthmos.
4.  Also a house and Farme of three hundred and lift}' Acres, or
thereabouts,  at  Muddy River, bounded M"'.  Wm. Tyng on the
south :    Cambridge bounds on the northwest :    and Dedham bounds
on the southwest.
[8.]  The possessions of Major Edward Gibones  within  the
Limits of Boston.
1.  His dwelling house, together with other houseing, and a gar-
den, bounded with the sti'eete on the west and on the north :    M"'.
John Wilson on the east and on the south.
2.  Also another house and lott, bounded on the east with John
Smith :     Robert Nash on the west :    the streete on the south :     and
the Cove or Mill Pond on the north.
15  (8)  1(;49.   John Milom, of  Boston,  coop,  granted  unto
Edw. Gibons of the same, merch'., one quarter part of the water
mill or mills,  and of all the watercourses, milldams, sluces and
floodgates thereto belonging, situat in Boston, and one fourth part
of all  the lands, houses, edifices,  buildings, meadowes, marshes,
tenements and hereditaments, with the appurtenances appertaining
to the sd.  mill or mills, and of all  emoluments, p'fitts, and com-
odities  Vvdiich  may be raised  of the  premises.   And tliis was by
an  absolute  deed  of  sale,  dated  12  (8)  1G49.   Signed,  John
Milom and a scale ;   witnessed b}' John Dane, John Mills ;   acknowl-
edged by the  said Jo :     Milom to  me, William Aspinwall, this
15  (8)  49.
Jf'. Atherton Ilavgh, his possessions within the Limits of Boston.
1.  One house and garden, bounded with the streete on the east
and on the north :    Arthur Perry on the west :   and Francis Lyle on
the south.
2.  Also another house and garden, bounded with M^ Hibbins
on the east :     the Coiiion on the west :     Richard Sherman on the
north :     and the streete on the south.
 - 210 - 
The Book of Possessions.              3
[9.]  The possession of JSP.  John Cotton within the Limits of
Boston.
1.  One house and garden, about halfe an Acre, with an Acre ad-
joyneinge, bounded with  Sudbury streete on the east:  Edward
Bendall  on the  north :     the  Ceutry hill  on the west :     and M''.
Bellingham and Daniel Maude on the south.
[lO.]  J/''.  William  Tyng, his possessions within the Limits of
Boston.
1.  One house, one close, one garden, one greate yard, and one
little ^'ard before the hall windowe, bounded with M^ Richard Bel-
lingham and the streete that goes to the Dock, southwards :   Benja-
min Thwing and Wm. AVilson, westward :   George Burden, Francis
Dowse,  Jeremy Houthin,  Sarah  Knight and  Samuel Grcames,
northward :   John Glover, Wm. Hudson, junior, GeorgeBurden antl
Hugh Gunnison and the streete, eastward.
2.  Also in the IMill  field  Marsh, eighteen yards and foure rodd
in breadth from the ditch, and so all the depth of the marsh thus
bounded :    David Phippeni on the ditch north east :    the high way
southeast :     the marsh granted to the millne southwest :     Thomas
Marshall and John Oliver north west.
Capt. Robert Keayne, his possessions loithin the Limits ofBoston.
1.  One house and garden, bounded with the  marketstreet on
the north :   the high street on the west :    Richard Fairebanks on the
south :    and M'. Hudson on the east.
2.  Also a garden, bounded with John Spoore, east :   William Pell,
north:* and Robert Rice, north.*
[11.]  The possession of J/'".  John Wilson within the Limits of
Boston.
One house and barne, twoe gardens and a yard, bounded with
the water streete on the  south :      Anthonie  Stoddard  and Wm.
Francklin on the east :   the Cove street and Major Edward Gibones
on the north :    Major Gibones, Wm. Courser, and John Coggan on
the west.
M"". Dunstefs possession within the Limits of Boston.
One house and yard,  bounded with Thomas Hawkins on the
west and the north :     and the streete on the east and the south.
[12.]  John Newgate., his possession loithin the Jjimits ofBoston.
One house and garden, conteineinge about three quarters of an
Acre, bounded with Henry Fane northwards :    the new Held west-
wards and southwards :    Anne Hunne, vid.  George Hunne, east-
wards.
Daniel Maud, his possession 'within the Limits of Boston.
One house and garden, bounded with ]\P. Bellingham south and
west :     M"". Cotton north :    and the streete east.
*Thus in the original.
 - 211 - 
4         City Document No. 46. —Part 2.
[13.]  Thepossession ofM''.  Thomas OlUver within the Limits
of Boston.
1.  One house and garden, bounded on the north with Richard
Fairebanks and Capt. Robert Kcayne :    Wm. Courser and the lane
on the east :    the Springate on the south :    antl the streete on the
west.
2.  Also one Acre and halfe  in  the  New Field, bounded with
Richard Fairebanks on the south ;*  the Marsh on the west ;    and
Richard Carter on the south.*
3.  Also a garden plott, bounded with Robert Scott on the east
and the west ;    James Pen and John Kenricke north.
The possession of Robert Howen loifhin the Limits of Boston.
One house and garden, containeiuge about a quarter of an Acre,
bounded with Sudbur}' streete north east :     Robert Meeres south
east :     Anne Huune, vid.  George Hunne,  northwest ;    Valentine
Hill southwest.
[14.]  Thepossessions of M'^.  Thomas Leverit ivithin the limits
of Boston.
One house and garden, bounded with ]\r. John Winthropp's on
the east :    the streete and Robert Scott on the north :    the marsh of
M''. AVinthropp on the south: and the ould meetinge house, Robert
Scott, ]\r. Henry Weebb, and Thomas Parsons on the west.
30  (1)  1G46.  David Selleck granted to  M^ Thomas Leverit
one acre ground, be it more or lesse, bounded Richard Parker and
Edward Hutcliinson west :    M'^ Stoughton south :    Thomas Leverit
west :     which h'eth in  the Newfield, as appeares by a deed, dated
20 (12) 1G45, acknowledged before M"'. Winthrop, Dep. Gover.,
30 (1) 1G4G, by Dav. Selleck.
7  (12)  1G50.  John Milom, of Boston, for valucable considera-
tion  received,  granted  unto  Capt.  John Leveret of  Boston, a
p'cell of land neere the mi!l, being betweene fourty-lyve and fifty
foote in  length by the Mill Creeke, bounded toward the west and
the north by the high way :    the Mill Creek northeast :   and Thomas
Marshall toward the  South :     with  free  liberty  of egressc  and
regresse in and out of the Mill Creeke with vessell or vessells not
pjudiceing  the  mill  strearae :     and this  was b}^  deed  dated  7
(G) 1G48.
Edmund Jackson., his possession loi'hin the limits of Boston.
1.   One house and garden, bounded with the lane south: John
Leverit east :     John Mellowes north :     and Sudbury streete west.
2.  Also in the new field about three Acres, bounded with Valen-
tine Hill south :    Robert Meeres west :    Georg Burden north :     and
David Sellick east.
17  (5)  1G45.   John Davies granted to  Edmund Jackson 10
foote in breadth, and 40 foote in length, as appeares by the Record
in the booke of mortgages, p.  Gl, which is  againe sould to Heze-
kiah Usher, 1  (12) 1G4G.
5  (8)  1G46.  John Davies,  of  Boston,  granted  to  Edmund
•Thus in the original.
 - 212 - 
The Book of Possessions.              5
Jackson (both of Boston) his dwelHng house and yard, in Boston,
bounded with M''. Wilson north :     lOdmund Jackson east :    market
place south:  John Coggan west:  b}'  an  absolute  sale,  dated 5
(8)   1G4-:  acknowledged  before  John  Winthrop,  Governor,
6 (8) 4G: which is  alsoe  sould to  Hezekiah Usher, 1  (12) 1G46.
See in this booke, p, —.   [I'J under John Davies.  W. II. W.]
[15.]   The possession of William Cojyp within the Limits of
Boston.
One house and lott of halfe an Acre in the Mill field, bounded
with Thomas Buttolph  southeast :     John Button  northeast :      the
marsh on the southwest :    and the River on the northwest.
John Mellowes Jiis possession within the limits of Boston.
1.  One house  and  garden,  bounded with  Edmund Jackson
south :   John Leverit east :    John Cole north :     and the streete west.
2.  Also at Braintree, one hundred thirty-two Acres, bounded
with James Browne northwards :     John Davies southward :    John
Webb and the Rock}- Coiiion westward ;    the mouth of Monotaquit
River and the Bay eastwards.
3.  Also  eight Acres, bounded with John Webb east :      James
Brown and Wm. Werdall north :     and Monotaquit River southwest.
4.  Also Foure Acres  and halfe  marsh, bounded with James
Brown north :     Zaccheus Bosworth west :     and Monotaquit river
southeast.
[16.]   The possession ofEdivin  Goodvdmoilhin the Limits of
Boston.
One house and lott, about halfe  an Acre, bounded with John
Sweete southeast :      Thomas Buttolph  northwest and southwest
:
and the baye northeast.
5  (11)  1648.   One house  and garden,  bought of  Sampson
Shore, being bounded with Sampson Shore southeast and north-
west :    Matthew Chaffie northeast :     and Christopher Gibson south-
west ;   with priviledge ofthe well, and landing his goods or wood on
Sampson Shore's wharfe, p'vided it  stand not above eight dayes
;
and this  was b}-  an  absolute  deed  of  sale,  dat.  5  (11)  1648,
sealed and d'd before William Aspinwall, Nota. publ.
22 (10) 1649.   Sampson Shore granted unto Edward Goodwin
his  garden, in  Boston, being  Ijounded  southwest with  Thomas
Faulconer :    the  cove  southeast :       M^ John Clerk  and Matthew
Chaffie northeast :     and the streete northwest :     and this was by an
absolute deed, dat. 22 (10) 1649.
11  (2) 1651.   Sampson Shore, of Boston, granted to Edward
Goodwin, of Boston, a house and garden in Boston, bounded on
the southeast and northwest with his owne land ;    Matthew Chatfv
northeast ;     and Christopher Gibson southwest ;      together with the
priviledges of the well, and landing of goods or wood uppon the
wharfe,  p'vided they lye not there above eight dayes ;    and this
was by a deed, dated 5  (11) 1648, sealed and d'd in  presence
of  W'".  Aspinwall,  Not^  public.    This  is   againe  sould  to
Nathaniel Adams.
 - 213 - 
6            City Document No. 46. —Part 2.
Gabriel Fish, Jiis  possession tvitJdn the limits of Boston.
One house and yard, bounded with John Davies on the soutli
and on the west :    Valentine Plill  on the north :    and the streete on
the east.
[17.]   Thepossession ofJohn Stoeete tvithin the limits of Boston.
One house and lott, about one Acre and quarter, bounded with
Edward Goodwin northwest :     Isaac Grosse southeast :    Cliristopher
Stanle}^ southwest :    and the Bay northeast.   This is  sould to W™.
Wicks.  See p. 122.
7(1) 1648.   Mark Hawes* granted unto John Sweete all  that
parcell of the shopp (formerly John Milom's) then in possession of
the s'd Marke Hawes, and that  parcell of  ground towards the
sea,  conteineing in  breadth  fourteen  foote  and halfe,  and two
ynches, and in length as far as the said Milom had any right to
grant ;      and also that parcell  of ground on  the back side,  con-
tein'g in breadth sixtcene foote and halfe, and in length twenty-
sixe foote, with all  privileges, &c. ;    and this was l\y an absolute
assignement, dated 7 (9) 1G47 ;   acknowledged before race, AVilliam
Aspinwall,  Notarins  pub.   This  is  assigned  to  John Farnam,
Lib. 2.   Vide page 30, in Cullimore's possession.
Henry Pease, his possession luithin the limits of Boston.
1.  One house and garden, bounded with the lane on the east
:
the streete on the south :    John Leverit on the west :    and the Cove
on the north.
2.  Also a Farme at  Braintree,  bounded with the  Coinon on
the north and the west :    James Everill on the south and the east.
3.  Also one acre three quarters of marsh at the Mount, com-
passed east, west, and south with James Everill's marsh ;    and a
salt ba}^ on the north.
[18.]   The 2wss€ssion of John Seaherry ivithin  the limits of
Boston.
One house and garden, about half an acre, bounded with Isaac
Grosse northwest :    Walter Merry southeast and southwest :    and
the sea or bay northeast.
John Smith, his possession icithin the limits of Boston.
One house and garden, bounded with the streete on the south :
John Davies on the east :     Major Edward Gibones on the west
:
and the Cove on the north.
[19.]  Tlie possession  of Walter Merry loithin the Limits of
Boston.
One house and lott, about an Acre, bounded with John Seaberry
and Isaac Grosse northwest ;    John Sweete southwest and on the
southeast.
John Davies, his possession ivithin the limits of Boston.
1.  One house and garden, bounded with James Johnson north;
* This name is veiy indistinct.
 - 214 - 
The Book of Possessions.              7
Gabriel Fish and Valentine Hill east :     John Smith west :    and the
streete south.
2.  Also at  Braintree, thirty  sixe  Acres,  bounded with John
Mellowes northward :     Zaccheus Bosworth southward :     Jonn Webb
westward :     and Monotaquid River eastward.
3.  Also one Acre of marsh, bounded with Zaccheus Bosworth
north and west :    and Monotaquid River south.
5 (2)  44; 29  (2)  45.   M"".  John Wilson, of Boston, sould to
John Davies 45 foote in front to the streete, and 40 foote in depth,
bounded with the said M"". Wilson's garden north and east, and the
market steed south :    and John Coggan west :     by an absolute deed
of sale, dated 5 (2) 44, and 29 (2) 45 ;   acknowledged before John
Winthrop, Governor, 23 (8) 4G.   In which writeing John Davies
is  bound to make and maintaine the fence  between M'^. Wilson
and him, and not to annoy him with any stincks or jackes.   This
after was sould to Edmund Jackson.  See p. 14.
[20.]  The possession of JVm. Beamsley ivitJiin  the  limits of
Huston-
1.   One house and houselott about halfe an Acre, bounded with
Anne Tuttle on the south and southwest :   the ba^' on the east :   and
Isaac Grosse north and northwest.
2.  Also at  Muddy River sixeteene Acres bounded with John
Bigges on the east, Thomas Grubb on the west, the cedar swamp
on the south :     and the marsh and River uppon the north.
6  (5)  1G50.   Wm. Phillips  granted  unto  Wm. Beamsle}' of
Boston a p'cell of land in the mill  field  in Boston being two hun-
dred thirty eight foote in length and (towards the southeast) foure
score foote  in  l:)readth, and northwest sixty foote  more or lesse
:
bounded with  ]M".  Mary Hawkins on  the  south east ;     Richard
Bennet southwest ;     and my owne land northwest and northeast
:
and this was by an absolute deede dated C (5) 1G50.
The possession ofJames Johnson icithin the limits ofBoston.
1.  One house and garden bounded with Thomas Hawkins north-
east :    the streete southeast and southwest :     and the Cove north-
west,
2.  Also a garden neere the Comon bounded with John Leverit
north :     George Burden south :    Anthony Harker east :     and the
Coinon on the west.
3.   Also an Acre in  the new field  bounded with John Biggs on
the north :    Francis Loyall west :    Zaccheus Bosworth south :     and
Thomas Clarke east.
4.  Also three quarters of an Acre of marsh and upland bounded
with the Cove on the north and the east :    John Smith west :    and
John Davies south.
[31.]  The possession of Anne Tuttle  within  the  limits  of
Boston.
1.  One house and garden bounded with W™. Beamsley on the
north :     Nehemiah Bourne on the south :     the Ba}' on the east :     and
2.  Also a Farme at Rumney Marsh, bounded with John Coggan
 - 215 - 
8           City Document No. 46.
—
Part 2.
on the north ;    Samuel Cole on the south ;    the sea on the east :   and
the high way on the west.
Also a house and garden bounded with W". Teft east :    Thomas
Foster south :    Georg Griggs west :    and the mill streete north.
The x>o&^ession  of Bartholomew Cheevers within the Limits of
Boston.
One house and garden bounded with the streete southeast :    the
cove northwest :   and on the northeast Robert Hull.
[32.]   The possession of Capt.  Nehemiah Bourne loithin  the
Limits of Boston.
One house and Garden bounded with Anne Tuttle on the north
:
Cnptaine Hawkins on the south :    the Bay on the east :    and on the
north.
The possession of John Arnold tvithin the limits of Boston.
One house and garden bounded with Thomas Munt on the east
:
the streete south :     and the  high way north :     and John Jackson
west.
[23.]  The possession  of Capt.  Thomas Haickins within the
Limils of Boston.
*[One house and garden bounded with Capt. Bourne  on  the
north :     the  Bay on  the  east :       Edward  Bendall on  the  south
:
and —
]
30 (11"0  1650.   Edward Bendall granted  to  Capt.  Thomas
Hawkins a eertaine p'cell of land scituat in  Boston, the bounds
thereof begining fourty foote to the northward from that lott which
was Mr. Robert Thompsons and so to Major Nehemiah Bournes
lott, running with a streight line according as Major Bournes pales
run from the  seaside (toward the east),  and unto the railes  of
Chi'istopher  Stanle}' toward the west,  the southerlj' side running
neere parallell unto this :    and this was by an absolute deed of sale
dat. 30 (11) 1645.
Edw. Bendall and a scale.
Sealed and d'd in p'nce of
William Aspinwall Not^ publ.
The x^ossession of John Jackson tvithin the limits of Boston.
One house and  garden bounded with  John Arnold east :    the
streete south :    the highway north :     and Robert Hull west.
[24.]  The possession ofEnsigne Thomas Savadge, within the
limits of Boston.
1
.
One house and garden bounded on the east with the Bay
:
Edward Bendall on the north :    the lane on the south :   and Christo-
pher Stanley on the west.
2.  Also a Farme at Braiutree h'eing in two parts :    the one con-
taineing thirty-eight Acres anda quarter boundedwith Rockygi-ound
Apparently cancelled at the time.
 - 216 - 
The Book of Possessions.              9
westwards :     James Evevill nortli :      Richard Cooke south :    and a
salt Bay oast.   The  other  conteiues  twenty sixe  Acres and is
bounded with  rocky ground eastwards:  William  Werdall  and
George Ilunne  westwards ;     James Everell  north :    and Richard
Cooke south.
3.  Also one Acre three-quarters of marsh, bounded with Oliver
Mellowes east and north :    Richard Cooke west :    Monotoquit River
south,
4.  Also —
John Oliver^ his possession ivithin the limits of Boston.
Oue house and garden about halfe an Acre bounded with Valen-
tine Hill northeast and southeast :    John Pierce aud John Knight
southwest :    and the streete northwest.
[25.]  Thepossession of Edmund Grosse within the Limits of
Boston.
Oue house and lott bounded with the lane north :    Samuel Cole
south :    Isaac CuUimer west :     and the Bay east.
This was sould to John Anderson p. 124-5.
TF".  Werdall his possession within the limits of Boston.
1.  One house and garden bounded with John Milom southwest :*
John Hill northeast :     the streete  northwest :     and  the  high way
southwest.*
2.  Also at Braintree twenty Acres bounded with John Mellowes
south :    George Hunne north :    a Rocky bottome aud Monotaquit
River west :     James Browne, Richard Cooke and Thomas Savage
east.
[26.]  The possession of Samuel Cole within the  Limits of
Boston.
One house and garden in Boston bounded with Edmund Grosse
north :    the Bay east :    Isaac Cullimer southwest.
The possession of John Hill within the limits of Boston.
1.  One house bounded with Henrj' Symons on the east: M'.
Bellingham on the north :    the streete on the west :     and the Cove
on the south.
1.  Also one smale lott of a quarter of an Acre bounded with
Sampson Shore northeast :     John Milom southwest :     the streete
northwest :    and the Cove southeast.
[27.]   The possession of M\ Thomas Clarke viithin the Limits
of Boston.
One warehouse and houselott bounded with the Cove andThomas
Jo}' on  the  south :     Isaac  Cullimer  on  the west :      Thomas Joy
northwest :    and Isaac Cullimer northeast.
The possession of Thomas Marshall within the limits of Boston.
One house and garden about halfe an Acre bounded with the
*Thu3 in the original.
 - 217 - 
10         City Document No. 4G. —Pakt 2.
marsh southeast :     the  streete  south west and northwest :     John
Pierce or John Knight on the no)theast.
8 (G) 1G48.   John Milom granted to Thomas Marshall a p'cell
of land in Boston ueere to the watermill, bonnded with the mill
Creelv  northeast :      Thomas Marshall  southwest :      the  high way
northwest :      and John Milom southeast :     being seventy six footc
on that side next Thomas Marshall and seventie foure ibure* foots
at the Creeke, thirty foote on the southeast side and fonrtie foure on
the  northwest :     with libertie  of egresse  and regresse in the sd.
Creek with boats, lighters and other vessells as he shall have occa-
sion.   And it is agreed that the sd. Tho: Marshall shall not build
any neerer the  Creeke than  the  now dwelling  house of the sd.
Milom, and that he shall not hinder the mills going by any vessel
or vessells  in  the  Creeke.   Dat. 2  (3) 1648, and acknowledged
before M"". Rich. Bellingham, 8 (G) 1G48.
[38.]   Thepossession of ThomasJoywithin, the limits of Boston
.
1.  One house and lott about halfe an Acre, and another house
adjoyueing bounded with M'". Thomas Clarke northwest, northeast
and southeast :    and the Cove southwest.
2.  Also one Acre l3'eing betweene Isaac  Culliraer  northeast
:
Richard Rawlins southwest :    Christopher Stanley northwest :    and
M"". Clarke southeast.
Thepossession of John Lowe ivithin the limits of Boston.
One house and garden bounded with the marsh northwards and
eastwards :    the Cove southwards :     and M''.  Bellingham  on  the
west.
[29.]   Thepossession of Eichard Bawlills ivithin the  limits of
Boston.
One house and garden about an Acre and three quarters bounded
with  Isaac  CuUimer  southwest :      Thomas  Joy  northeast :      M'".
Clarke southeast :    and Christopher Stanley northwest.
Henry Symonspossession rvithin the limits of Boston.
One house and lott bounded with M^ Bellingham on the north
and east :    John Hill on the west :    and the Cove southwards.
[30.]  Tlie possession  of Isaac CuUimer within the  limits of
Boston.
1.  One house  and garden about  three  quarters  of an  Acre
bounded  with  Richard  Rawlins  northeast :     Christopher Stanley
northwest :     Francis Hudson and Bartholomew Pasmer southwest
:
and the Cove southeast.
2.  Also another house and  lott  about  an  acre  and  quarter
bounded with Christopher Stanley, Samuel Cole and the vv-ay north
east :    the Bay southeast :     M^ Clark and Richard Rawlins south-
west :    and Christopher Stanl}^ northwest.
12 (7) 1G50.   Bartholomew Pasmer of Boston sould unto John
*Word repeated iu the original.
 - 218 - 
The Book of Possessions.             11
Sweete a pareel of ground below the high way next the water side
and this was by a deed dated 1  (10).
Bartholomew Pasmer,
John Afilom his 2)OSsessio7i in the limits of Boston.
One house and garden bounded with John Hill on the northeast
:
Valentine Hill southwest :    W™. Werdall northwest :    and the Cove
southeast.
[31.]   Thepossession of Bartholomew Pasmer within the limits
of Boston.
One house and garden about a quarter of an Acre bounded with
Isaac  Cullimer  northeast:  John  Gallop  southwest:  the  Cove
southeast :   and Francis Hudson northwest.
David Phippeni his possession ivithin the limits of Boston.
One house and lott bounded with Valentine Hill northeast :    the
cove  southeast :     M^ W". Tings  southwest :      and  John Oliver
northwest.
15 (12) 1650.  John Milom ofBoston for valueable consideration
reed, granted unto David Phippeni of Boston a p'cell of land in
Boston in length one hundred and two foote and in breadth at the
high way nine foot nine yuches according as it  laid out, bounded
with Bartholomew Barlow (sic) on the southwest ;   the lott of David
Phipeni on the northeast, the highwa}' southeast, and       •   on
the northwest: and tliis was by an absohitc deed of sale dated 7
f 12) 1649, and scaled and delivered in presence of John Gore.
[33.]  The possession of Francis Hudson ivithiri the Limits of
Boston.
One house and garden about halfe an Acre bounded with Isaac
Cullimer northeast :    Bartholomew Pasmer southeast :    John Gallop
southwest William Hudson, senior, northwest.
The jwssession of John Cole within the Limits of Boston.
One house and garden  bounded with John Mellowes on the
south :    Nathaniell Chappell on the. north :    John Leveritt east :   and
the lane west.
[33.]  The possession of Matthew Chaffie ivithin the  limits of
Bofiton
.
One house and lott bounded with John Gallop northeast :    Samp-
son Shoare southwest :    Thomas Mekins northwest :    and the Cove
southeast.
29 (7) 1649.   M"-. John Clarke, late of Newberry, now of Bos-
ton,  granted  unto  Matthew Chaffe  of Boston, shipwright, one
Ferme conteineing foure hundred Acres of land, be  it  more or
lesse, lying and being betweeue the river of Merimack and Newbury
River in Newbury in the County of Essex in  New England, with
all the houses, edifices and buildings thereunto belonging, and all
the woods, underwoods, coiiions,  meadowes, pastures,  feedings.
 - 219 - 
12          City Document No. 46.
—
Part 2.
comodities and privilcdges  together with all  writeings and  evi-
dences concerning the same :     and this was by an absolute deed of
sale, dated 29 (7) 1G49.
John Clarke and a seale.
Sealed and d'd in p'nee of
ROBEKT SaLTONSTOLL
John Dane
William Aspinwall, Not''. Publ:
Nathaniell Choppell his possession ivlthin the Limits of Boston.
One house and garden  about a quarter of  an Acre of  land
bounded with John Cole south :    John Leverit east :    the Cove on
the north ;    and the lane on the west.
[34:.]   The possession of John  Gallop within  the limits  of
Boston.
One house and garden bounded with Matthew Chaffle southwest
:
Francis Hudson northeast :     the Cove southeast :      and  the  way
northwest.
Thepossession of James Ilawhins within the limits ofBoston.
One house and garden bounded with William Kirkby south
:
Richard Sanford westerly :    and
28  (12)  1G48.   John Milom of Boston for good and valuoable
consideration by him received the 26 (12) 1G4G, hath granted unto
James Hawkins of  Boston a p'cell  of Marsh in  Boston, being
bounded on the northeast with a smale p'cell of marsh reserved for
a wharfe :    the highway southeast :     M'. Bellingham southwest :     and
a smnle p'cell of marsh reserved for a wharfe northwest :     being on
the N. E. fifty foote :     on the southeast sixty foote :    on the south-
west one hund'd and twenty' foote, and on the N. west one hun-
d'd and fifteen  foote :      witli  liberty for  the sd.  James his heires
and assignes to bring any vessell or vessells into the said Creeke
or the branch thereof,  and to land any goods for the use of his or
theire  families  nppon the  said  marsh reserved for a wharfe or
wharfs to  be erected  without paying wharfage or any other taxc
saveing six pence for a boate if they open the bridge.   Provided
the goods so landed lye not uppon the sd. reserved marsh or wharfe
above six houres after they are  so landed.   And this  was b}- a
deed  sealed  and delivered  in  presence of  William  Aspinwall,
Notaiy publ.
[35.]  The possession of Sampjson Shoare within the limits of
Boston.
One house and garden  bounded with  Matthew Chaffie north-
east :     the Cove southeast :    John Hill southwest :    and the streete
northwest.
27 (8)   1 Go1 .        RichardHawghton ofBoston granted to Sampson
Shore of Boston, tailor (for good and valuealile consideration reed.)
,
his dwelling house and garden in Boston bounded with M"".  Tho.
Clarke north, John Anderson south and east ;    and the highway
west ;     and this was by a deed dat. 27* Octob. 1G51, sealed and dd.
in presence of W". Aspinwall, notary publ.
 - 220 - 
The Book of Possessions.             13
The possession of William Kirlchy ivithin the limits of Boston.
One bouse and garden bounded with James Hawkins north :    the
lane southeast :     and Richard Sanford westerly.
[36.]  The jyossession of Richard Savford tvithin the limits of
Boston.
One house and lot  about an acre bounded with Robeit Meeres
on the west :    Richard Parker on the north :    James Hawkins and
Wm. Kirby easterl}' :    and the streete west.
Robert Meeres his possession icithin the limits of Boston.
1
.
One house and garden bounded with the streete northeast
:
Edward Bendall southeast ;    Robert Howeu northwest :   Valentine
Hill southwest: this was confirmed by deed dat. 22 (7) 1G48.
2.   Also in  the  New field  two Acres bonnded with Edmund
Jackson on the east :    Robert Turner west :    Richard Cooke south :
and George Burden north.
3.   Also halfe an Acre of land in  the new field  bounded with
Tho. Scotto southwards :     James Hawkins eastward :    M'. Richard
Parker's northward :      and Richard Meeres westward :       This was
granted and confirmed unto Robert Meeres by James Penniman as
was also  the  first  parcell, by an absolute  deed dat 22 (7) 10-48,
sealed and delivered before William Aspinwall, Not. publ.
[37.]  Henrji Fanes possession ivilhin the Limits of Boston.
One house and garden bounded with Sudbury streete easterly,
the lane north: the newfield west: and Mr.. John Newgate soutli.
Jeremy Houtchin his possession within the limits of Boston.
One house and garden about a quarter of an Acre bounded with
Sudbury streete southwest :    W"\ Wilson southeast :    the lane north-
west :    Thomas Makepeace and "W°\ Wilson northeast.
[38*]  Thomas Makepeace his possessio7i within the limits of
Boston.
One house and garden bounded with Jeremj' Houtchin south-
west :     AVilliam Wilson south :     the streete westerly :    and the I'aue
northerly.
The possessions ofBenjamin Thiving in Boston.
One house and garden bounded with Sudbury streete southwest
:
William Wilson northwest and northeast :    Joshua Scotto south-
east.
[39.]  The possession of William Wilson within the Limits of
Boston.
1.   One house and garden bounded with M^ W". T3-ng on the
east :     Thomas Makepeace and George Bates  north :      Sudbury
streete southwest :    and Benjamin Thwing south.
2.   Also in the new field two Acres and halfe boundedwith Rich-
ard Parker on the cast :    John Ruggle west :    Zaccheus Boswoi'th
south: and W™. Hudson, senior, north.
 - 221 - 
14         City Document No. 46.
—
Part 2.
Joshua Scotto Ids possession untldii the Limits of Boston.
1.   One house and garden about halfe  an Acre bounded with
Sudbury- streete  southwest :     Benjamin Thwing northwest :     Mr.
Bellingliam northeast :    and Alsxander Beck southeast.
2.   Also in the New field two Acres.
7  (3)  1646.   3.   Mr. Richard Bellingham of Boston granted
unto -Joshua Scotto of the same, one equall pportionable halfe  of
marsh land formerly granted to him by the Towne lyeing betwixt
John Lowes and M'".  Symonds :     and this was by an absolute deed
of sale dated 4 (4) 1644, under his hand and scale.
30 (3) 1650.   James Everill of Bostou for and in consideration
of twent}^ foure  pounds granted unto Joshua Scotto a p'cell of
marsh lately belonging  to  M''.  Belhngham, lying  in  Boston in
forme of a Triangle, bounded on one Angle with pt of the marsh
belonging to  the  sd Ja.  Everill,  being one hundred and fouity
foote, on the other Angle with the laud ofW"'. Fi'ancklin, being one
hundred fourty and seven foote :    on the third Angle with the back
pt of the houslot now in the possession of good. Eraans, with six
foote  eleven ynches at the lott  of Joshua Scotto at  the  east end
thereof:  and this  was by an absolute  deed of sale  dat.  3  (3)
1650, and acknowledged before M^ BelUngham (30) 3 1650.
[4:0.]   AlexancV. Becks xiossession tcithin the Limits of Bostoyi.
1
.
One house andgarden bounded with the streete on the south :
James Browne east :    M''. Belhngham north :    Joshua Scotto, west.
2.   Also in the New field one Acre bounded with Thomas Munt,
east :    the water, north :    MajorEdward Gibones on the west andon
the south.
3.   Also a smale parcell  of land first  granted for a houselot
bounded with John Leverit south :   Henry Pease east :    a smale
Creeke west :    and the Cove north.
11  (9)  1651.   Thomas Woodward of Boston granted to Al'^x-
and^ 13eck of Boston a pcell of land at muddy river  conteining
foure Acres and a quarter be it more or lesse, bounded with Rich-
ard Carter southeast :      W°\ Lamb southwest :     Nathaniel Woud-
ward and Robert Roote  northwest :     and this  was b}'   a  deed
(valueable consideration being first  received) dated 11"^ Novemb.
1651,  sealed and dd.  in  presence of John Angier and William
Aspinwall, Notar}^ publ.
John Biggs his possession within the Limits of Boston.
1 .        Onehouse and yard boundedwith JamesBrowne on the west
:
and northly M''. Bellingham :    on the east Thomas Hawkins, Valen-
tine Hill, Thomas Buttolph and Christopher Stanley :    and Centry
Hill streete on the south.
[4:1.]   James Brownes possession loithin the Limits of Boston.
1.    One house and garden bounded with John Biggs east: Mr.
Bellingham north :    Alexander Beck west and Centriehill streete
south.
2.   Also halfe an Acre in the New field bounded with the Comon
on the south :    M^ Wilsons Garden northeast :     and Andre'v Mes-
singer northwest.
 - 222 - 
The Book of Possessions.             15
3.   Also halfe an Actc more in the Newfiekl bounded with Rich-
ard  Fairebanks  north:  Isaac' Allington east:  Alexander Beck
west :    Thomas Clark south.
4.   Also at Braintree twenty sixe Acres bounded wilh Richard
Cooke northwards :   John Mellowes southward :    the Bay eastwards :
and Coilion Rockie ground westwards.
5.   Also eight Acres bounded with John Webbwestwards :     John
Mellowes southward :       William Werdall westward :       and Richard
Cooke northward.
6.   Also one acre of marsh bounded with Monotaquit River east
:
and Zaccheiis Bosworth on the west.
Thomas Haickins possession ivilhin the limits of Boston.
1.   One house and yard bounded with Valentine Hill on the
north :      the streete on the east :     John  Biggs west :    and  on  the
south M^ Henry Dunster and Centriehill streete.
2.   Alco a quarter of rn Acre towards Charlstowne bouuded
with James Johnson southwest :     the Cove northwest :    John Button
-northeast :    and the street southeast.
12  (7)  1648.   John Pierce granted to Tho. Hawkins of Boston
his house and lott in Boston which he lateh' purchased of M''. Val.
Hill.   And this was by a deed dat. 12 (7)*^1G48.
[43.]  Thepossessions of Thomas Bvttolph within the limits of
Boston.
1.   One house and Garden bounded with Valentine Hill south;
the streete ou the east :     John Biggs on the west :     and Christopher
Stanle}- on the north.
2.   Also one Acre and halfe orthereabouts (which was first la3-de
out for garden lots) bounded with the highway on the south :     a lot
that lyes coiuon to the eastwards :    Jacob Leaguer, Walter Sinet
(and the lane northwards) :    M'. Fowle and Robert Woodwardwest-
wards.
3.   Also in the Milne field about foure Acres and halfe bounded
with the bay northeast: Nicholas Parker and Valentine Hill north-
west: and Christopher Stanley south:  aliened to X'fer Lawson,
p.  112.
4.   Also about one Acre compassed with Christopher Stanleyes
ground.
5.   Also about halfe an Acre bounded with the Cawsey north-
east :   AVilliam Cox northwest :     and the marsh southwest.
6.   Also at Pulling point twenty fyve Acres upland bounded
with the sea northeast :     M"".  Pierce southeast :    James Pen north-
west :    John Webb and John Oliver southwest.
7.   Also seven acres of marsh more or lesse boundedwith his own
upland east: the River west :    Edward Hutchinson, Junior, south:
and James Pen north.
8.   William Hudson of Bosto, senior, granted to Thomas But-
tolph fyve Acres of land in the ncwfield  bounded with Ri Cooke
east :    James Johnson west :    William Wilson south :    and
Davies. Apothecary, north: and this was by a deed dated 16  (4)
1646, acknowledged the same day before Joh. Winthrop, Gov.
 - 223 - 
16         City Document No. 46. —Part 2.
[43.]  Christopher Stanley his possession within the Limits of
Boston and TK™. Phillips his successor.
26 (6) 1648.   Christopher Lawson granted unto W". Phillips of
Boston a certaino p'cell of land in the Mill field in Boston, conteine-
iug two Acres and halfe of land more or less, being bounded with
the  highway to Charlstow  northwest :      the Causway west :      W"'.
Phillips southeast:  and Thomas Ruck and  Christopher  Lawson
north-east.   Andthis was byan absolute deed sealed anddd before
W". Aspinwall and John Spoore 23 (4)  1648 :    which land the sd.
W". Phillips granted to Susan his wife during her life and to the
heires of her bodie begotton.
26 (6) 1648.   Richard  Bennet of  Boston granted  unto  W"\
Phillips of Boston two or three Acres of land in Boston be it more
or lesse,  bounded  with  W'".  Phillips  and  Christopher  Lawson
northwest :   the land of W"\ Phillips and the land lately exchanged
witli him southwest :    W™. Phillips southeast :    the River and sundry
smale lotts  northeast.   And this was by an absolute deed sealed
and dellivered 26 (6) 1648, before William Aspinwall, Not. publ.
10  (4)  1650.   Tho. Clarke of  Dorchester, merch'. granted to
Christoph"" Stanley of Boston, tailor,  a certaine i)'cell  of land in
Boston neck, being pt. of an houslott formerly belonging to  W"'.
Wcekes, cont. sixt}' pole of ground more or lesse, bounded on the
southwest b}' Isaac Cullimer :   Thomas Clarke northwest,     Raw-
lins  northeast :     southeast the sea, through wdiich  are  two high
wayes,  the  one  going  towards the  mil hill  being twelve  foote
broad,  the  other  thirty six foote unto the lowermost highway,
and from thence to low watermarke thirty foote.   And this was
by an absolute deed of sale dat. 30 (2) 1644 :   reserving liberty- for
tlie  sd.  Thomas or such tenants as shall dwell and abiitt on the
said way of twelve foote broad, to loade all kind of goods at the
highwater mark or wharfe there to be erected, p'vided it  lye  not
above twenty foure houres at most without paying wharfage.   And
whereas the breadth granted for the highway is thirty foote from
Isaac CuUimers, it  is  onl}'  hereby granted liberty to Tho. Clarks
assignes and tenenants as aforesd only to land goods within the
space of that ten foote next Isaac CuUimers land, pvided it lye not
above twenty foure houres as before.
Tho. Clakke
Sealed and d'd in p'nce of
John Stratton
RoBT. Jeoffeets
Edward Bendall granted to Christopher Stanley  of Boston  a
p'cell of land moore or lesse, bounded by an highway southwest:
Capt. Hawkins northeast :    Lieftenant Savage pales southeast :   M^
Stanleyes rails  northwest :    and this was bv an absolute deed dat.
20 (10) 1645
Edw. Bendall
Witness
Sajiuel Bellingham
Edward Tyng granted to M^ Stanley a p'cell of land about two
 - 224 - 
The Book of Possessions.             17
Acres, which land was allotted to M^ Baulston and sonld by him
to M^ Cornewell of whom the said Edw. bought it and made sale
thereof to M"". Stanley and his forever,   dat. 26 (10) 1G43.
p. me      Edward Tyng
See more in the 2 booke, page
[44.]  Tlie possession of Hugh Gunnison within the Limits of
Boston.
One house  and garden bounded with the  streete  southeast
:
George Burden northeast :    AV", Hudson, Junior, northwest :     M^
William Ting westwards.
10 (4) 1G50.   Robert Saltonstall granted to Hugh Gunnison of
Boston fifty Acres of land be it more or lesse h'ing in the  bounds
of Salem neere M''.  Downings Ferme which was late the land of
Rich :     Walker of Salem.  And this was by an absolute deed of
sale dat. 25 (5) 1G47.
RoBT. Saltonstall and a seale
Signed, sealed and d'd. in p'nce of
Rich. Stileman
John Bushwell
William Aspinwall
John Glover his possession ivithin the limits ofBoston.
One house and yard bounded with the streete on the southeast
:
George Burden southwest:  W" Hudson, Junior, northwest and
northeast.
[45.]  The possessions of George Burden within the limits  of
Boston.
1
.
One house and 3*ard bounded with the streete southwards
:
Hugh Gunnison westward :   W". Hudson, Junior, northwards :   and
John Glover eastwards.
2.  Also a garden neere the Coihon bounded with James John-
son  north :    Henry Webb south :    Thomas Clarke  east :     and the
Coihon west.
3.  Also in the new field  fyve Acres and halfe  bounded  with
Richai'd Fairebanks north :   John Mellowes west :  Edmund Jackson
south :   and the marsh east.
William  Hudson, Junior, his possession  within  the  limits of
Bostoyi.
One house  and garden  bounded with M''.  W™. Tyng south-
west :      Samuel  Greames and the  Lane northeast :     the  streete
southeast.
[46.]  Samuel  Greames his possession  ivithin  the  limits  of
Boston.
One house and yard bounded with the  lane northeast :      Will™
Hudson, Junior, southeast: M^ W"\ Ting southwest: and Sarah
Knight northwest.
Sarah Knight her possession icithin the limits ofBoston.
One house and garden bounded with Samuel Greames south-
 - 225 - 
18        City Document No. 46. —Part 2.
wards :     the  lane  eastwards :     M^ W™. Tyng westwards :      and
Jeremy Iloutchin northwards.
[47.]  Francis  Doivse  his  2^ossession   ivitJdyi   the  limits  of
Boston.
One house and yard bounded with the lane eastwards :     Jerem}''
Houtchin southwards :     M^ W". Tyng westwards :     and  George
Burden northward.
George Bates his r)ossession tvitJiin the limits of Boston.
One house and garden bounded with W". Wilson on the south
:
George  burden  on the  oast :    Anne Hunne on the north :     and
Thomas Makepeace on the west.
[48.]  Anne, vid.* George Ilicnne, herpossessions in the limits
ofBoston.
1.  One house and garden bounded with Georges on the east and
the south :   Thomas Makepeace on the west :   and the lane on the
north.
2.  Also about halfe an Acre in the New field bounded with
Robert Howen on the south the strecte on the east.
3.  Also at Braiutree thirt}'  one  Acres bounded with Thomas
Savage  and  James Everill  east :      Richard  Wright west :      W™.
Werdall south :    and the north bordereth uppon the Rocke that lies
common.
John Button his possession within the limits ofBoston.
1.  Three houses and a garden and yard, containeing in all about
an Acre bounded with the Cove southeast :    the  lane southwest
:
James P^verill northwest ;   and Nicholas Willis northeast.
2.  Also in the mill field one Acre bounded with Charles River
northerly :   the  marsh southwest :     and John Shaw northeast and
southeast.
[49.]  Nicholas Willis his possession within the  limits  cf Bos-
ton.
One house and garden bounded with John Button on the south-
west :   tlie  streete east :     Thomas Painter  northerly-,  and  James
Everill westerly.
George Barrell his possession tvithin the limits of Boston.
One house au'l lott  not halfe  an Acre bounded with  Thomas
Painter south :   Nicholas Willis  west :    James Everill north :    and
the streete east.
[50.]  Thomas Painter  his  possession  ivithin  the  limits  of
Boston.
1.   One house and gaixlen bounded with Georg. Barrell on the
north :   Nicholas Willis southwest :   and the streete eastwards.
2.  Also twenty  Acres at Muddy River bounded with  Ralph
* Vidua or widow.
 - 226 - 
The Book of Possessions.             19
Goultrop  east :     William T03'  west :     Griffith  Bowen south :     and
John Leverit north.
25 (1) ||^§.   Robert Wing granted unto Thomas Painter all his
dwelling house both old and new built, being bounded on the north
with  Raph IMason, the high  streete on the  east :   Henry Web on
the west :   and the lane on the south :   and this was by an absolute
deed of sale dated 18 (3) 1648
Robert Wing and a seale
Witness
John Mainard,
Job Judkin,
Philemon Pormort,
This is again aliened to Ephraim Hunt, Lib 2. page
Sould to Thomas Painter my peece of IMarsh next to W"". Hud-
sons senior on the west :   on the south the highway :   on the east
Hawkins :    on the ground of Ri. Billingham on the north, contcine-
ing  in  breadth to the streete about 46 foote.  in  breadth to the
north about 14 foote, on the same length with W'" Hudsons pales
By me     Ri. Bellingiiam
This also is sould to Ephraim Hunt, Lib. 2, p.
The possession ofJames EveriU ivithin the limits of Boston.
1.  One house  and houselott with  the  streete eastwards and
northwards :     the lane southwest :   John Button, Nicholas Willis,
and George Barrell southeast.
2.  Also at Braintree one farme conteineing eighty eight Acres, .
bounded with Thomas SaA'age and Rock}- ground undisposed of
towards the south :   George Hunne towards tlie west :   Henry Pease
and a certaine swampe toward the north :    and his own marsh land
northeast.
3.  Also twoe Acres three quarters of marsh bounded with a salt
Bay northeast and parti}' with Heniy Pease his marsh :    and south-
west with his owne upland and the uplands of Henry Pease.
4.  Thomas Savadge of Bosto granted to James EveriU twenty
sixe Acres upland at Braintree bounded with Rocky ground east
:
Richard Cooke south :   W"\ Werdall and George Hunne west :   and
James Everill north. Ak'o one Acre three quarters marsh bounded
with Monotacut southeast :    Rich. Cook southwest :   and Oliver Mel-
lowes on the north :     and this  vfas by an absolute deed of  sale
dated 15 (11) 1645, acknowledged before M". Winthrop, D. Go,
19 (11) 1645.
5.  John .Shaw of Boston granted unto James Everill of Boston
a certaine p'cell of land at  the docke being in  front at the dock
about fourty  foote,  bounded on the  east  with Joshua Scotto :
Edmund Jackson west :    the cove south :      and the highway noilli
:
together with the Cellar frame and all  privilcdges and immunities
thereto belonging.   Dat. 25 (8) 1649, and acknowledged by John
Shawe before mee W™. Aspinwall Recorder.
[51.]   Thepossessions of Jf. John Coggan within the limits of
Boston.
1.  One house and garden bounded with M"". John Wilson on the
 - 227 - 
20        City Document No. 46.
—
Part 2.
north and on the east :   and with the streete on the west and on the
south.
2.  Also halfe an Acre or thereabouts bounded with M^ Belling-
hams northwards :     M"". Wilsons southwards :     the burieing place on
the east :    and the new field on the west.
John Leverit his possession loithin the limits of Boston.
* One house and yard bounded with Richard Parker south and
west, and the streete north and east.
[53.]  The possession of William Franklin in Boston.
One house and garden, bounded Avith the streete east and north
:
Mr. John Wilsons west :     and John Leverit and Authonie Stoddard
on the south.
Robert Nash his x>ossession tvithin the limits of Boston.
1.  One housa and yard, bounded north and west -f:  Valentine
Hill south :    and Edward Bendall, east.
2,  Also one Acre for a honslott bounded with Major Edward
Gibonos on the east :     the lane on the west :      the streete on the
south: and Ihe Cove on the north.
2G (1) 1G50. W^\ Phillips of Boston granted unto Robert Nash
of Boston a p'cell  of land in Boston neere the new meeting house
being in  breadth sixty foote more or lesse and in length six score
foote more or less  as it  is  nov^ staked out, bounded on the north-
west, southwest and southeast with  the lands of  the said W".
Phillips  and the  river on northeast, with all  priviledgs  thereto
belonging: and this was by an absolute deed of sale dat. 26 (1)
1G50.
Susan Phillips wife of the said W"". Phillips did release unto
Robert Nash all her right and title  to the aforesaid p'cell of land :
and this was by her deed dated the same 20 (1) 1G50.
28  (G)  1G5U.  This land  was againe  sould  to  W". Phillips
28 (G)  IG50 as appeares under the hand of the sd Robert Nash
before Will. Asp :     pub :    not.
5 (8) 1G50.   John Milom of Boston granted unto Robt. Nash of
Boston three quarters of his dwelling house neere the Mill togetlier
with the wharfe  and  land  thereto  app'teining and priviledg of
free cgrcsse and regresse of boates and vessells into the Mill Creeke
(not hindring or stopping the mill streame and tlie passage of other
boates :     he paying to Vv '".  Francklin six pence a boat lor such as
open the bridge) with free passage or way to the sd house at the
northermost side thereof :    and this was by an absolute deed dated
2 (8) 1G50.
Sealed and d'd in p'nce of           John Milom and a seale
Jo: BUSHWELL
Ri: Waite, William Aspinwall
[53.]  Mr. Georcje Foxcroft his possession icitJiin Boston.
One house lot  bounded with the Cove on the north :     Edward
Bendall on the east and the south :    and Robert Nash on the north.
•This entrj' is repeatetl on p. 61 of the onVinal.       fThus in the original.
 - 228 - 
The Book of Possessions.             21
Echixird Bemlall his ^-yossesnon within the limits of Boston.
1.  One house and lott about a quarter of an Acre bounded with
Mr. Foxcrol't and  Robert Nash on the west :     Mr. Hill on the
south :    and the Cove on the North and the east.
2.  Also another house and garden together with two Acres of
land  adjoyneinge  bounded with  Sudbury strcete  east:  Robert
Meers north :    Mr. Cotton soutli  and on the west.
3.  Another houselott bounded with Capt. Hawkins north :   Lieft.
Savage south, the Ba}- east.
This was by him sould to Anchor Ainsworth.
[54.]  Edward Tyng his po^sessioji ivilhin the limits ofBoston.
One house and yard and warehouse and Brewhouse bounded
with the Bay on the east :   Valentine,* Henry Webb and part of the
(Jove on the north :    James Oliver on the west :    and the streetc on
the south.
Also at Braintree two hundred and seventeene Acres and a halfe
of upland, nine Acres and a quarter of Medow, and fifty  three
Acres and a quarter of swamp as by the plott made in the yeare
1 G40 by M''. John Oliver may appeare :    which land is  bounded on
the north with a swampic bottom pting betwixt him and M''. Edw.
Hutchinson, and also with a pond and George Burden.
18 (10) 1G50,  Jane Ilarwood and Nathaniel Bishop Attorneys
to  George Harwood, granted  unto  Edw. Tyng of Boston the
dwelling house of the sd. George and the land thereto belonging at
the end of the lane which joyueth to the house and land of M^
Tho: Oliver: and this was by a deed dated decern. 1G50.
Jane Harwoods marke and a seale
Nath. Bishop and a seale
Sealed and d'd  in p'nce of us
Rob'' Reinolds,  Nathaniel Reinolds,
and ^Y^. Aspinwall
The tow atturney and affidavit are in my notaries booke
James Oliver his possession vjithin the limits of Bo'iton.
One house and yard bounded with Edward Tyng on the East
:
Valentine Hill on the north :    David Sellick on the west :    and the
streete ou the south.
[55.]  David Sellick his possession within the limits ofBoston.
One house and garden bounded with James Oliver on the east
:
Valentine Hill ou the  north:  Mr. Pierce on the west:  and the
ti'cete  on the south.
20(11) 1045.   One house  purchased  of Christopher Lawson
which formerl}' was Henry Symons. and a garden bounded with
the streete or highway westward, the coinon marsh towards the
north and east :     and John Hill and Nathaniel Long towards the
south :   together with a lane of ten foote leadeing to the said garden.
Also the wharfe or land lyeinge afore the said house in breadth forty
two foote and length fifty sixe foote according to the grant of the
•Probably the rame Hill is omitted here by accident.
 - 229 - 
22         City Document Xo. 46. —Part 2.
Gcncrall Court :    and this  was by an absolute deed of sale dated
20 (11) lG-15                   CiiRiSTOPiiEU Lawson ajid a seale.
Acknowled2;ed before RF. Hibbins.
20 (11) 1G45.
14  (7) 1647.   Edward "Wells  granted unto David Sclleck  his
house and garden in  Boston bounded with Sampson Shore north
east :     the  Cove southeast :      John Milom southwest :     and John
Hills garden northwest, and this was by an absoUite deed of sale
dated 11 (7) 1G47, and acknowledged before Mr. Wintlu'op, Gover.
14 (7) 1G47.
William Pierce Jiis possession loitliin the limits of Boston.
One house and garden bounded with David Sellick on the east
:
Isaac Grosse and the  high wa^' on  the  north :      Wilhara Davies
junior and the streete on the south: Edward Bendall, Valentine
Hill and William Davies on the west.
[56.]  Isaac Grosse his possession icitJiin the limits of Boston.
1.  One house bounded with W™. Pierce on the south and the
east :    Edward Bendall west :     and the Cove on the north.
2.  Also a house and garden about lialfe  an Acre bounded with
W™. Beamsley on the south :    the wa}' on the west :    the Bay and
John Sweete northerly.
3.  Also another house and garden bounded with John Seaberry
south :    John Sweete north :   Walter Merry west :   and the Bay east.
TT"".  Davies, Junior, his possession within the limits of Boston.
One house bounded with William Pierce east and north :    Valen-
tine Hill on the west :     and the streete on the south.
[57.]   William Hudson,senior, hispossessionwithin the limits of
Boston.
1.  One house and yard bounded with the streete on the north:
the Bay on the east :   Mr. Winthrop on the south :    and W™. Davies,
senior, on the west.
2.  Also a lot in  the  new field  coutaineing about f^'Ve  Acres
bounded with Richard Cooke on the east :    and Mr. Thomas Clarke
on the west.   Sould to Thomas Buttolph, page 42.
3.  Also a  garden  plot  towards  the  Fort  hill,  bounded with
Robert Scott on the east: Nathaniell Eaton, Richard Hogg and
Francis East on the west :    Amos Richardson on the south :     and
Nicholas Parker on the north.
William  Davies,  senior,  his  possession  within  the  limits  of
Boston.
1.  One house bounded with AV™. Hudson, senior, on the east:
the streete on the north :   M'. Winthrop on the south and on the
west
2.  Also another house  and a.bout  three  quarters of  an Acre
bounded with the water on the southeast:  and Richard Gridley
southwest, northwest and northeast.
3.  Also one Acre bounded with Jacob Eliot east and south :   M"".
 - 230 - 
The Book of Possessions,             23
Colbonrne west :      and the  sea  on  the  north.   This  lies  in Mr.
Colboiirncs field.
[58.]  Robert Scott his possessio7i within the limits of Boston.
1
.
One house bouiuled with Mr. Thomas Leverit on the east and
on the south, and with the streete on the west and on the north.
2.  Also a garden bounded with Capt. Robert Keine on the east
:
Thomas Oliver on the west :    John Webb on the north.
3.  Also a garden  bounded with  Mr. Thomas Leverit on the
east :    Henr}' AVebb on the south :    and the high way on the west
and on the north.
4.  Also a garden plot bounded with Jacob Leger on the east
:
W". Hudson, senior, on the west: Nicholas Parker and James Pen
on the north :    and Edward Bates on the south.
William Parsons his possession rvithin the limits of Boston.
One house and garden bounded with the lane on the west :   Henry
Webb on the north :    James Davics on the east :    and the sringate*
on the south.
[59.]  James Davies his possession ivithin the limits of Boston.
One house and garden bounded with Thomas Leverit on the
north :    the marsh on the east :    William Parsons on the west :     and
the Springate on the south.
Henry Webb his possession within, the limits of Boston.
1.  One house and garden bounded with the market place on the
north :    the ould meeting house and the lane on the east :    the high-
way on the south :    and Mrs. Hudson on the west.
2.  Also a garden bounded with John Leverit on the east: the
high way and Robert Scot on the north :   the lane on the west :   and
Mr. Thomas Oliver on the south.
3.  Also another garden bounded with Robert Wing and Raph
Mason on the east :     the lane on the south :    George Burden on the
north :    and the Coiho. on the west.
[60.]  liichard Fairebanks hi^ 2)ossession within the limits of
Boston.
1.   One house and garden bounded with Capt. Keine on the
north and on the east :     Mr. Oliver on the south :     and the high
streete on the west.
2.  Also a garden bounded with William Aspinwall on the south
and on the east :     Zaccheus Bosworth, John S3-n(lerlant, Richard
Cooke, John Lugg and Arthur Perry  on the  north :      and the
Common on the west.
3.  Also foure Acres in  the New field  bounded with M^ Tho :
Orn-er  north :       Georg Burden and  Henry Pease  south :      Isaac
AUington, Alexander  Beck and James Browne west :      and the
River on the east.
4.  Also five Acres in the Fort field  bounded with ]\Ir.  Hibbins
*The word should be Springate.
 - 231 - 
24         City Docuivient No. 46. —Part 2.
northeast :      Robert Turner southwest :     John Spoore  west :     the
Coinoa north :     and Richard Gridlc}' southeast,
TF". Corser his possession vdthiu the limits of Boston.
One house and garden bounded with M^ Thomas Oliver on the
south and ou the west :   Capt. Robert Keine on the north :    and the
hme on the east.
22 (G) 1G49.   James Everill of Boston granted to W"\ Courser
of Boston a certaine houselott  bounded on  the  southeast with
Robt. Porter and the streete north east, W™. Tynge south, Evan
Thomas northwest.   And this was b}' an absolute deed dated 22
(6) 1G49, before AV™. Aspinwall notary publ.
[61.]  John Leverit his possession ivithin the limits of Boston.
One house and yard bounded with Richard Parker on the south
and on the west :    the streete on the north and on the east.
Richard Parker his possession ivithin. the li^nits of Boston.
One house, barne and yard bounded with the market steed* on the
east :    John Leverit on  the  north :      the  prison  3-ard  west :       and
Richard Truesdaile and the meeting house on the south.
18 (8) 1G51.   M^ Adam Winthrop by order from his brother
Major Stephen Winthrop for valueable consideration reed, granted
to Mr. Rich. Parker of Boston that house in the 3'ard that belonged
to his  Fathers dwelling house by the spring, southeast from the
sd dwelling house, with  fourty foote of gi-ound  fronting to the
spring :      and backward to  the  pales  of  the garden.   Dat. ^th
decemb. 1G50.                    Adam AYinthrop and a seale
Witness Michael Powell.
Valentine Hill.
The sixth day of the ninth month, 1651.
Whereas amongst other things conteined in  a letter written by
M''. Stephen Winthrope to his brother M''. Adam Winthrope beare-
ing date the sixt day of february anno domi 1G50. the sayd Ste-
phen Winthrope doth authorize the sayd Adam Winthrope to sell
some lands for  hira  heere in New England as appearcs in these
words viz. :     for those tilings  vow ilientioned for my land in New
England and howse I must reterr it  to yow, rather than it  should
deca}'  for  want of repaii-e  I  would sell  it.    I rcferr it wholy to
yow.  I know yow will doe for me as for youre selfe and yow can
better judge uppon the place then I at this distance.   Wee whose
names are hereunto subscribed that it is a true coppy of so much of
the sd letter as concernes this buisenes.   Examined b}' us the day
and yeare abovesd.
Rich. Brackett,-
Richard Martin,
Nathaniell Souther,
Adam Winthrop.
This writing was acknowledged by M^ Adam Winthrop to be
* An obsolete word, also spelt stead.   It raean<! " place ;  " as is shown in the phrase
of " being in one's stead," or " instead of" another.
 - 232 - 
The Book of Possessions.             25
the contents of a letter written to him bj' M^ Stephen Wintlirop
•whereb}- he is authorized to deale for the said Steeven in  all  liis
affaires in New England, before me the IGth of the 12th month
1G51.
William Hibbins,
Recorded 16: Feb. 1651.
Edw. Kawson, Recrd^
[63.]  Richard  Truesdale his x>ossession within the limiis of
Boston.
1.  One house and garden bounded with Richard Parker on the
north :    Valentine Hill on the south :     the prison j'ard on the west
:
and the meeting house on the east.
2.  Also three quarters of  an Acre in the New field  bounded
with the Coihon  on  the  south :    Nathaniel Eaton on the north :
Zaccheus Bosworth on the west :     and Thomas Millard on the east.
Valentine Hill his possession tvitliin the limits of Boston.
One house and garden bounded with the streete on the east :   the
meeting house and Richard Truesdale on the north :    Capt. Robert
Sedgwick on the south :    and the prison garden west.
Also another house and backside bounded with John Biggs on
the west: Thomas Buttolph on the north: Thomas Hawkins on
the south :     and the streete on the east.   Aliened p. 135.
[63.]  Major Robert Sedgwick his jJossession tvithin  the  limits
of Boston.
One house  and garden bounded with Thomas Clarke, Robert
Turner and the streete on the east :    M^ Hutchinson on the south
:
Valentine Hill on the north :    and Henry Messinger west.
Jf'.  Richard Hutchinson his  possession  within  the  limits  of
Boston.
One house and garden bounded with the streete on the east and
on the south :    Thomas Scotto on the west :    and M^ Sedgwicke on
the north.
[64»]    Thomas Scotto his possession loithin the limits ofBoston.
1.  One house and garden bounded with the bnr3-ing place on
the west :    Henry Messinger north :     the  streete  south :    and M^
Richard Hutchinson east.
2.  Also foure Acres upland at Muddy River bounded with W"\
Beamsley and Thomas Grubb on the south :     Richard Snnford and
Alexander Beck north :   the Cedar Swampe westward :   and his owiie
marsh east.
3.  Also one Acre of  Marsh at  Muddy river ;       bounded with
Charles River east :   Richard Sanford, Thomas Grubb and his owne
upland west :    and Jacob Eliot southwards.
Henry Messinf/er his possession luithin the limits of Boston.
One house and garden bounded with  the streete westwards
:
Richard Crychley north :    Thomas Scotto and the burieing place on
the south :     Major Sedgwick east.
 - 233 - 
26         City Docoient No. 46. —Part 2.
[65.]  Richard  CroycheJy  Jus  2^ossession ivithiti the limits of
Boston
.
1.  One house and garden bounded with the streete on the north
and on the west :    Richard Tapping on the east :     and Henry Mes-
singer on the south.
2.  Also two Acres in  M''.  Colbornes field  bounded with Jacob
Eliot on the cast and on the west ;     Richard Parker on the south
:
and W". Salter on the north.   It is to be understood that l:)oth the
house and garden, and also the two Acres in M''. Colbornes field doe
belong to the wife and children of William Dincley although the}''
be put under the name of Richard Cro^'chle}', who onely possesseth
them iu the right of his wife and her former husband's children.
22 (12) 1(J48.   Nathaniel W"' granted unto Richard Critchley
his house and land  thereto  belonging  being  bounded with the
streete on the north :     the prison on the east :    Henry Messinger on
the south :     and Richard Critchley on the west :    and this was by an
absolute deed dated 22 (12) 1G48.
This house and land  last named being formerly the possession
of Richard Tapping, the said Richard Tapping did acknowledge
himselfe  satisfyed  and did tor himselfe and heires release unto
Nathaniell Williams all  his  right  and title  therein,  dat.  5  (11)
1649.
Rich. Tapping and seal.
Test. W'^. ASPINWALL,
RoBT. Meeres.
Richard Tapping his possession ivi'hin the limits of Boston.
One house and garden bounded with Richard Cro3'chle3' on the
west: Prison (aliened) on the east: street north :   Hen. Messinger
on the south.
12 (11) 1G48.   Henry Bridgham of Boston granted unto Rich-
ard Tapping of Boston the dwelling house wherein the said Richard
now dwells and halfe  the lott  as now it  is  marked out,  being
bounded with Thomas Millaud on the south :    Arthur Perry west
:
the high street east :    and the sd Heniy Bridgham north :    as by
a deed dated 12 (11) 48 appeares.
Sealed and dd. in presence of Wm. Aspinwall, Not. publ.
[66.]  Benjaynin  Gillom  his possession ivithin  the limits of
Boston.
One house and garden bounded with Benjamin Ward on  the
west :     M"". W". Hibbins south :    John Compton and the Cove east
:
and the marsh north.
Also one house and lott bounded with ^V"\ Deming westward
and northward :    Robert Turners pasture east :     and the lane south-
east.
Benjamin Wardspossession tcithin the limits of Boston.
One house  and  about an Acre of ground bounded with Na-
thaniell  Woodward the yonger  on  the west:  Benjamin Gillom
east :     M\ Hibbins  south :     Edward Hutchinson and  the marsh
north.
 - 234 - 
The Book of Possessions.             27
[67.]  John Compton his possession within the limits ofBoston.
One house a,nd garden bounded with the Cove on the east :   Ben-
janiin Gillom on tlic west :   the Fort hill on the south :    andBoniamiu
Gillom on the north.
Nathaniel Woodward his jwssession tvithin tJie limits of Biston.
One house  and garden  bounded  with  Benjamin  Ward and
Edward Hutchinson on the east :     the marsh on the north :    and on
the west.
[68.]  Edward Hutchinson his possession within the limils of
Boston.
One house  and yard bounded with Benjamin Ward east and
south :    Nathaniel Woodwar west :    and the marsh north.
Richard Sherman his possession within the limits of Boston.
One house and garden bounded Avith  M"".  Hibbins on the north
and on the east :   M''.  Atherton Haugh on  the  south :      and the
gi'eene on the west.
[69,]  John Spoore his possession ivithin the liniits of Boston.
1.  One house and garden bounded with M*".  Hibbins west :     the
Creek north :    the marsh east :    and the streete south.   Aliened see
2 booke p. 9.
2.  Also one Acre and halfe or therabouts bounded witli Richard
Fairebanks on the east :     Robert Turner southwards :   the streete
north :    and Captaine Robert Keine and WiUiam Fell west.
13 (11) 1648.   Henry Bridgham of Boston granted unto John
Spoore of Boston his dwelling house in Boston and his lott as it  is
now marked out, beingbounded on the south with Richartl Tapping :
Arthur Perry on the west :    M"". Haugh on the north and the high
streete on the east, and this was by a deed dated 13 (11) 1G48,
sealed and dd in presence of William Aspinwall, notarius publ.
William Pells jiossession within the limits of Boston.
One house  and garden bounded with John Spoore east :    the
streete north :    Capt. Keine south :     and Miles Robert Rice* west.
[70.]   William  Dinsdale  his j)ossessio7i  icichin the limits of
Boston.
One house and garden l)ounded with  Robert  Rice  east :     the
streete north :    John Kenrick west :    and Robert Scot south.
Robert Rice his possession within the limits of Bnston.
One house and garden bounded with W"\ Pell on the east :    "W".
Dinsdale on the west :    Capt. Keine on the  south :    and the streete
on the north.
[71.]  John Kenricks possession tvithin the limits of Boston.
One house and garden bounded with W'". Dinsdale on tlie  cast
:
James Pen on the west :      the streete on the north :    and on the
soutii.
* Thus in the original.
 - 235 - 
28         City Document No. 46.
—
Part 2.
James Pens possession tvitJiin the limit't ofBoston.
One house and garden bounded with John Kenriek on the cast:
the streete on the uorth :    Richard Parker on the west :    and
[73.]  * Nicholas Parkers possession within the limits ofBoston.
1.   One house and garden bounded with James Pen on the east
:
tlie  streete  north :     Nathaniell  Bishop west :     and Robert  Scot
south.
2.   Also a Farme of two hundred and sixty Acres at Rumney
Marsh bounded with John Newgate on the north and on the east
:
M^ Bellingham and the  Creelce on the  south :     and Charlstowue
bounds on the west.
3.   Also twenty Acres of land at Rumney Marsh bounded with
Samuel Cole on the east and on the north :    and John Newgate on
the west and on the south.
4.   Also two acres  in  the  mill  field  bounded with  Thomas
Buttolph southeast and southwest :     Valentine Hill northwest :    and
the water northeast.
Nathaniel Bishops possession uithin the limits of Boston.
One house and Garden bounded with Nicholas Parker on the
east :     W"\ Hudson, senior, on the south :    John Steevensou, Richard
Waite and Edward Fletcher on the west :     and the streete on the
north.
[73.]  John Steevensons possession within the limits of Boston.
One house and j'ard  bounded with Nathaniel Bishop east :    the
streete on the north :     and Robert Reinolds on the west and on the
south.   This is sould see pag. 119.
5  (11)  1G46.   Richard Parker of Boston granted to John Ste-
venson a certaine  p'cel  of  land in  Boston bounded w^ith  Rich.
Truesdale and the meeting house yard on the south and his owne
land on the north, east and west, and this was by an absolute deed
dat. 5 (11) 1G4G.                               Rich. Pakkeu.
Witnes Tno. Roberts.
This was againe sould to James Astwood, page      ,  in the
second booke.
22 (G) 1G49.   James Evei*ill of Boston granted to John Steven-
son a certaine houselot in  Boston bounded on the southeast with
W™. Ilayward :    W™. Tyng south :      Robt. Porter northwest :    and the
streete northeast :     and this was by an absolute deed dated 22 (G)
1G49, before W". Aspinwall, Not. publ.
The possession of Zaccheus Bosworth ivithin the limits ofBoston.
1
.
One house and garden bounded with the streete on the west
and on tlie north :    Richard Fairebanks south :    and John S^'nder-
laud east.
2.   Also two Acres in the Newfield bounded with the Coinonon
the south :      Richard Truesdale cast :    Jane Parker west :    William
Bichard wi'iLten first and erased.
 - 236 - 
The Book of Possessions.             29
3.   Also one Acre and balfe in  the  new field  bounded Avith
Thomas Millard south :     James Johnson north :     Edmund Dennis
east :   and Richard Sherman west.
4.   Also  at  Braintree  fifty  one  Acres  bounded with  Rocky
Coinon and Richard Cooke north:  John Mellowcs, John Davies
and Monotaquit Eiver south :    John Mellowes and James Browne
west :    Zaccheus Bosvvorth, John Davies and John Mellowes east.
[74.]  John Synderlands jJossessioji loithin the limits of BostO'i.
One house and garden bounded with Zaccheus Bosworth west
:
the streete north :    Richard Fairebanks couth :     and easterl}- Richard
Cooke.
lo (G)  1G50.   Whereas John Gallop  deceased in  his  lifetime
granted to John Synderland a p'cell of land in Boston in breadth
nine rod more or lesse and in length twenty rodd more or lesse,
bounded with the streete southeast :    with the mill damme (where
it  is  but eight  rod  in  breadth)  north west :       Francis  Hudson
easterly :    and M^ Coales westerly.   Also a p'cell of land in length
eighty foote,  in  breadth thirty and six foote,  bounded with the
streete  northward :     John Sweete  southward :     John Gallop west-
ward :     and John Synderland eastward.   Mehetabel Gallop wife of
the sd.  John did ratif3' and confirme the same by a deed dated
27th Feb. 1G49.
Mehetabell Gallop and a seale.
Richard Cookes possession xcithin (he litnits of Boston.
1.   One house and Garden bounded with John S^'uderland west
:
the streete  north :      Richard Fairebanks south :      and John Lugg
east.
2.   Also one Garden hounded with the Coinon west :      Daniell
Maud south :     William Aspinwall north :    and P>phraim Pope east.
This is againe sould, see page 70.
3.   Also in  the Newfield a certaine parcell bounded with W"\
Hudson, senior, west :    Valentine Hill east.
4.   Also a Farme at Braintree of  thirty f^'ve  Acres bounded
with Thomas Savage northwards :    James Browne southwards :    the
Bay eastwards :     and Rocky ground westwards.
5.   Also seven Acres more boundedwith Thomas Savadge north :
James Browne and John Webb south :    W™. Werdall west.
6.   Also one Acre and quarter marsh, bounded with Thomas
Savage and Monotaquit River east :    John Davies and Oliver Mel-
lowes west.
[75,]  John Lugg his possession within the limits of Boston.
One house  and  garden  bounded with  Richard  Cooke west
:
Richard Fairebanks south :      Arthur Periy east :      and the streete
north.
Arthur Perry his possessio7i ivithin the limits of Boston.
One house and 3'ard and garden bounded with John Lugg west
:
Richard Fairebanks south :    the streete north :     M^ Haugh, Fi'ancis
Loyall, Thomas Grubb and Thomas Millard east.
 - 237 - 
30        City Document No. 46.
—
Part 2.
[76.]  Francis Ljjle his possp.ssions within the limits ofBoston.
1.   Oue house and garden bounded with  M"".  Haugh on the
north :    the streete east ;   Arthur Ferry west :    and Tliomas Millard
south.
2.   Also halfe an Acre in the New field,
Thomas Millard his possession loithin the limits of Boston.
1.   One house and garden bounded with Francis Ljde north:
Thomas Grubb south :    Arthur Ferry west :    and the streete east.
2.   Also in  the New field halt'e  an Acre bounded with Richard
Truesdale west:  Thomas Scotto east:  Nathaniell Eaton north:
and the Coinon south.
3.   Also one Acre in the Newfield bounded with Jane Farker
west :    William Wilson east :     Zacchcus Hosworth and John Ruggle
north, and also Edward Dennis north :     and on the south.
10 (8) IGol.   Zacchens Bosworth granted to Tho. Millard (for
valueable consideration reed) a p'cell land in Gentry field cont. one
Acre be it  more or lesse,  bounded with Edw. Hutchinsons land
north :     the Cofnoii  south :     Thomas Millard east :      and Zaccheus
Bosworth west: and this was by an absolute deed dat. 10th Octo-
ber,  IGJl.   Sealed and dd. in presence of William Aspinwall, not-
publ. and Eaph Roote.
[77.]   William Asjjinwall his  jwssession  loithin  the limits of
Boston.
1.   One house and garden bounded with Richard and Thomas
Grubb on the north :      the Coinon on the west :      the high streete
on the east :    and Richard Cooke and Ephraim Fope on the south.
2.   Also at Muddy River nine Acres surrounded witii the Cedar
swamp and Nathaniell Woodward the elder.
3.   Also at HoggIsland one Acre of Upland and three quarters
of Marsh bought of Mrs. Ormsbie.
Concerning the windmill, see the great  booke of Records  of
Copies, &c.
AV'illiam  Davies, apothecary, for good and valueable consider-
ation,  granted  to W'".  Aspinwall of Boston a p'cell of land in
Boston be the same halfe an Acre more or lesse bounded with the
land of the sd. W"\ Aspinwall south and east: the Coinon west:
Zaccheus Bosworth,      Barker, Richard Cooke, Robert Wright,
and       Bomsted  north :      and this  appcarcs l)y  a deed dated
11th  November,  IGol.   Sealed and d'd.  in  presence of  John
Sanfford.
Thomas Grubb his 2yossession within the limits of Boston.
One house and garden  bounded with  Thomas jNIillard  north :
Arthur Ferry west :    AVilliam Aspinwall south and the high streete
east.
[78.]  Ephraim Pojyes possession rcithin the limits of Boston.
One house and garden bounded with William Aspinwall north
:
Richard Cooke west :     Ednunid Dennis soutli :     and tlie  liigh streete
east.
 - 238 - 
The Book of Possessions.             31
Edmund Dennis his j^ossession v)i/hfn the limits of Boston.
1.   One house and garden bounded with Ei)hraim Pope north :
Edmund JaekUn south :      the streete  east :      liichard Cooke  and
Daniel IMaud west.
2.   Also in  the  new field halfe  an Acre bounded with  John
Ruggle  cast :      Zaccheus Bosworth west :      Thomas IMillard south :
Mr. Thomas Clark north.
3.   Also a smale parccll bounded with James Everill eastwards :
the lane and streete southwest and northwest.
4.   Also at Braintree about twenty Acres bounded with Thomas
Metson  east:   Alexander  Plimlc}'  westwards:  Valentine  Hill
southwards.
[79.]  Edivard  JacMin his  2^ossession  ivithin  the  limits  of
Boston.
One house and garden bounded with  Edmund Dennis north :
William Townsend south :     the  streete  east :     and Daniell Maud
west.   Aliened, see p. 116.
22 (3) 1G47.   Richard Cooke of Boston granted unto Edmund
Jaclvlin halfe an Acre of land in Bosto, being bounded with AV".
Aspiuwall north :      Daniell Maud south :      the  Coinon west :        and
Ephraim Pope east :     and this was b}' a deed dated, sealed and d'd,
10 (2)  1G45 in  presence  of "William Aspinwall, public Notary.
This is againe sould, p. 125.
22 (3) 1G47.   Daniell Maudof Boston grantedto Edmund Jack-
lin  of the same, halfe an Acre of land in  Ijoston, bounded Aviih
Eich.  Cookes north :     the  Coulon west :     Rich.  Sherman south
:
and Edmund Jacklin east: and this by a deed dated 13 (8) 1G43,
in  p'sence of Ilatavill Nutter and Edward Starbuck, Elders of the
Church at Dover.  This is againe sould, p. 125.
William Townsend his jyossession. ivithin the limits of Boston.
One house and garden bounded with Edmund Jacklin north
:
Jane Parker south :    the streete east :    and Daniell Maud west.
[80.]  Jane ParJcer her possession tuithin  the limits of Boston.
1.   One house and garden bounded with the streete east and
south :    William Townsend north :   ^and Richard Sherman west.
2.   Also halfe an Acre in the new field  bounded with Thomas
Millard  eastwards:  David Sellick,  Nathaniell  Chappele, Jacob
Leger and ]\P.  Pepes southwards :      William Beamsley, Richard
Sherman, and Zaccheus Bosworth northwest.
3.   Also fourty Acres of land at Muddy River bounded with—
Jane  Parker,  the widdow of  Richard  Parker,  intending  to
marrie, did b}- a deed of gift thus dispose of her land.   Unto M;:r-
garet her daughter and her heires, she did give out of her hous3-
lott twenty one foote square in the angle at the meeting of the
streets.    Then all  her house  and  lott,  also the halie Acre in
the newfield, and fourty Acres at Muddy river, she doth give to
her sonns, viz', halfe to John Parker her eldest and his heiros, and
the other halfe equally to be divided betwixt Thomas and Noah
and theire heires, and if  the one dve, then to descend to the sur-
 - 239 - 
32         City Document No. 46.
—
Part 2.
vivor :      if  both  dye then to the eldest,  and this was b}'  a deed
dated 15  (5)  164G, and the same day acknowledged before the
Governor.
Robert Blotts possession in Boston.
One house and garden bounded with the streete on the east and
north :   Mr. —Flint on the south :   John Leverit on the west.
[81.]  M''. —Fillet hispossession within the limits ofBoston.
One house and garden bounded with Robert Blot north :    John
Leverit west :   the streete east :   and Anthony Harker south.
3fr. Flint his possession icithin the limits of Boston.
One house and garden  bounded with Anthony Harker north
:
Thomas Clarke south :   the streete east :    and George Burden west.
[83.]  Anthony Harkerspossession in Boston.
One house and garden bounded with  the streete east :    James
Johnson  west :      Mr.       Flint  north :     and Mr.       Flint
south.
Thomas Clarks possession within the limits of Boston.
One house and garden bounded with Mr.        Flint north
:
Henr}' Webb and Georg Biirden west :   the streete east and Raph
Mason south.
[83.]  Raph Masonspossessions in Boston.
One house  and garden bounded with Thomas Clarke  north
:
Henry Webb west :     the  streete east :     and Robert Wing south.
This is sould to Thomas Painter, p. 50.
21 (12) 1645. Isaac Perry granted unto Raph Mason of Boston
ten Acres of land, be it more or lesse, at Muddy River, bounded
with Raph Masons lot  south, Thomas Scotto north :    M''. Hibbins
west:  and this was by an  absolute deed dated 20  (10)  1645:
Acknowledged before Mr. Winthropp.
Robert Wi))gs jjossession within the limits of Boston.
1.  One house and garden bounded with the streete on the south
and the east :    Henry Webb on the west ;     and Raph Mason on the
north.
2.  Also halfe an Acre of land bounded with the River on the
west :  Mr. Pepes on the south ;    James Everill and       on the
east.
[84.]  Richard Carters possessions in Boston.
One house  and garden  bounded with Mv. Oliver north :     the
Common west: the streete east: and Jacob Lcger south.
2 (9) 46.  William Parsons granted unto Rich: Carter, a parcell
of land, abont an acre, bounded Robert AVing and  Raph Mason
cast :        the  lane  south :      the  Coinon  west :      and Georg  Burden
north :   by an  ab.solut  deed dated 2 (9) 46, acknowledged before
John Winthrop, Governor.
 - 240 - 
The Book of Possessions.             33
7(1) 47.  "W™. Aspinwall granted unto Rich: Cavter his lott at
Muddy River eontaineing nine Acres more or lesse, bounded with
Nathaniell  Woodward, senior,  towards the  northwest,  and the
Cedar swamp on the other side :    and this was by an absolute deed
of sale, dat. 7 (1) 1G47.
4.   (11) 1G48.   Richard Gridley granted to Richard Carter of
Boston  his  lott at Spectacle Island,  being by estimation  three
Acres more or lesse, situat on the hithermost part of the Easterne
Spectacle, to have and to hould  according to all the right he hatli
in the  same: and this was by a deed of sale dat.  2  (11)  1G48,'
sealed and d'd in presence of W"". Aspinwall, Not. publick.
Jacob Leger Ids possession within Boston.
1
.
One house and garden bounded with Mr.  Coleborne on the
south :     the Coiiion west :    the  streete  east :    and Richard  Carter
north.
2.  Also a house and garden bounded with Mr. Thomas Fowle
south :     the streete west :    Robert Woodward north :    and Thomas
Buttolph east.
3.  Also an Acre or thereabouts bounded with        Chaplains
east :    Richard Parker north :     the Comon south :    and Mr. Pepes
west.
[85-]  M"^.  William Coleborne within the limits ofBoston.
One house and garden bounded with the high streete east :   the
lane and Edward Belchar south :     Jacob Leger north :     and       .
Edtvard Belchars possession within the limits of Boston.
One house  and garden bounded with Mr. Colborne east and
north :   the lane south :   and William Talmage west.
[86.]  TJie possession of William Talmage in Boston.
1
.
One house and garden bounded with the streete on the south :
Edward Belchar east :   and Thomas Snow on the north and on the
west.
2.  Also a garden bounded with  Robt. Walker west: Jacob
Eliot east and south :   and the streete north.
The possession ofRobert Walker in Boston.
1.  One house and garden bounded with Thomas Snow on the
east :   the Common north :   the streete south :    and William Brisco
west.
*[2.  Also a garden bounded with Thomas Snow east :   the Com-
mon north :   and :   this was bounded before.]
2.  Also a  garden bounded with WilUam Talmage east:  the
streete north :   John Cranwell west :   and Jacob Eliot south.
[87.]  William Brisco his possession in Boston.
One house and garden bounded with Robert Walker east :    the
Common north :   the streete south :    and     Flacke west.
24 (4) 1651.  Thomas Alcock of  Dedham granted unto W™.
*Evidently a clerical error.
 - 241 - 
34        City Doctoient No. 46.
—
Part 2.
Brisco of Boston a lott of tAventy acres be it more or lesse, bounded
with lulmnnd Crosse on the east  and  Edward Belchar  on the
west, halCe a mile from M^ Hibbins ferme :   and this was by a deed
dat. in the yeare 1G44.
Raph lioote Ids possession in Boston.
One house and garden bounded with John Cranwell cast :   John
Cranwell and Richard Croychely south :   William Salter west :   and
the streete north.
[88*]   William Salter Mspossessioyi in Boston.
1.  One house and garden bounded with Eaph Eoote east: the
Common  west :     the streete  north :      Jacob  Eliot  and Eichard
Cro^'chley south.
2.  Also an Acre in  Mr. Colbornes field  bounded with  Jacob
Eliot south and east :   the bay west :   and the Coioion north.
3.  Also at Muddy Rivereight acres, bounded with Robt. Burden
west :     William Brisco east :    Nathaniel Woodward, senior, north
:
and Jacob Eliot  south.   This is  againe sould to Ed: Devotion.
Transcr, lib.  2,  page 129.
Jacob Eliots piossessioyi toithin (he limits ofBoston.
One house and garden bounded with the highway east :   the lane
north :    'William Talma2;e west :     and Mr. Colborns field south.
[89.]  Garret Bournes possession loitliin the limits ofBoston.
One house and garden bounded with Pklward Rainsford east :   the
marsh south :   and the streete west and north.
John Cranwells honse and possessions in Boston.
One house and garden bounded with Raph Roote west :   Robert
Walker east: the streete north: and on the south  twoe Acres of
ground belonging to  it :     which twoe Acres is  bounded with the
garden on the north :   Mr. Roe on the east :   and Richard Cro3'chley
on the west and on the south.
[90.]  Echvarcl Bainsfords jyossession in Boston.
One house  and garden bounded with  Garret Bourne west
;
David Oflflcy east :   the streete north :   and the Cove south.
David Offleys possession in Boston.
One house and garden bounded with Edward Rainsford west
:
the lane east :   the streete north :   and the Cove south.
[01.]  If".  Owen Roe his pos'^ession in the limits of Boston.
One house and garden bounded with the streete  north :   the lane
west :   the Cove south :   and John Pelton east.
Jolin Peltons possession in Boston.
One house  and houselot bounded with Owen Roe west :      the
streete north :   the Cove south :   and the marsh on the east.
 - 242 - 
The Book of Possessions.             35
[93.]  Griffith Boivens possession in Boston.
One house and garden bounded the streete on the south and
on the west :   Miles Reading on the east :    and        Cole on the
north.
Cole his possessiomoithin the limits ofBoston.
One house and garden bounded with (iriflitli Ik)wen  south :   the
streete west :     Miles Reading east :   and John Odlin north.
[93.]  John Odlinn his 2yossession in the limits of Boston.
One house and garden bounded with the  streete  west :    Miles
Reading east :                         Cole south :   and Walter Sinet on the north
12 («) IGoO. John Batcman granted to John Odlin a housclot
in  Boston (latel}- bought of John Cnddington) being bounded on
the north with the lott of the sd John Odlin :     tlie  lott of Griffith
Bowen on the south :    the high streete west :    and Richard Wilson
east :     and this was by an absolute deed, dat. 10 (8) 1G50.
John Bateman and
Test. William Aspinwall,               a seale.
John Cuddington.
Waltei' Sinets possession in Boston.
One house and garden bounded with  John Odlin south :      the
streete  west :     Thomas Buttolph and Miles Readinge  east :     and
Jacob Leger north.
[94.]  Robert Woodivards p)ossession in Boston.
One house andgarden bounded with Jacob Leger south :   Thomas
Buttolph east :   the high streete west :   and the lane north.
Thomas Wheelerspossession in Boston.
1
.
One house  and garden bounded with the lane south :    high
streete  west :     the  watring place  east :     and William Blaintaine
north.
2.  Also at Mudd3'- river fiftcene Acres bounded with M^Ilibbins
west :   Carabridg bounds north :   Robert Hull east :   and Henry Fane
south.
[95.]   William Blantaines jwssession in Boston.
1
,
One house and garden bounded with Thomas Wheeler south :
John Hurd north :   the streete west :     and watring place east.
2.  Also another houselott bounded with John 8erch west :   Wil-
liam Brisco east :   the streete south :   and the Coihon north.
27 (4) 1G4G.   William Davies, Gunsmith, granted to W". Blan-
taine, carpenter, halfe an Acre of laud, be it more or lesse, bounded
with Thomas Bel west :   the Mill streete north :   Georg Griggs east
:
and William Blantaine south ;   ami this was b}- an absolute deed of
sale  dated 27 (4) 1G4G, and acknowledged the same day before
John Winthrop, Governor.
John Hards possessio7i within the limits of Boston.
One house and garden bounded with William Blantaine south.
 - 243 - 
36        City Document No. 46. —Part 2.
the  high stveete west :     Gamaliel  Waite cast :     and  Robert Hull
north.
[96.]  Robert Hullspossession in Boston.
One house and garden bounded with John Hurd south :   the high
streete west :     Job Judkiu north :    and Gamaliel Waite east.
The possession of Job JudJdns in Boston.
One house and garden bounded with Robert Hull south :     Elisa-
beth Purton north :    the streete west :    and Gamaliel Waite, east.
[97.]  TJie possessions of Nathaniel Woodioard {the elder)  in
Boston.
One house and garden bounded with the mill lane south :    the
high streete west :    John Palmer, Junior, east :    and John Marshall
north.
John Marshall his 2'>ossession ivithin the limits of Biston.
One house and garden bounded with Nathaniell Woodward, sen-
ior, on the south :   Richard Hogg north :    Amos Richardson east
:
and the streete west.
[98.]  Richard Hoggs2iossessiomvithin Boston.
One house and garden bounded with John Marshall, south :    Na-
thaniel Eaton north: Amos Richardson and W"". Hudson, East:
and streete west.   AUened to John Lake, p. 138.
Nathaniel Eaton his possession ivithin Boston.
One house and gardenbounded with Richard Hoggesouth :  Fran-
cis East, north: W". Hudson, senior, east: and the streete west.
[99.]  Francis East his possession in Boston.
One house and garden bounded with Nathaniell Eaton south
:
Charitie * and Richard Waite north :    William Hudson east :    and
the streete east.f
Charitie White herpossession in Boston.
One house and smale yard bounded with Francis East, south and
east ;    the streete west :    and Richard Waite north.
[lOO.]  Richard Waite his possession in Boston.
One house and garden bounded with Charitie White and Francis
East, south :    Edward Fletcher, north :   the streete west :    and Na-
thaniell Bishop east.
Edicard Fletchers possession in Boston.
One house and garden  bounded with  Richard Waite, south
:
Robert Reinolds  north :      the  high streete west :      and Nathaniell
Bishopp east.
* Evidently a -word is dropped—should be Charitie White andRichard Waite.  See
next two lots.
t Sic in orig.   Should be west.
 - 244 - 
The Book of Possessions.             37
[101.]  Robert Reinokls hi^t possession in Boston.
One house and garden bounded with Edward Fletcher, south
:
the high streete west :    the Fort streete north :    and John Steeven-
son, east.
John Pahnei% junior, Jiis possession m Boston.
One house and yard bounded with Nathaniel Woodwar, senior,
west: the Mill streete, south: Amos Richardson, east: and John
Marshall, north.
[103.]  Amos Richardson his possession in Boston.
One house and garden bounded with John Palmer, John Mar-
shall and Richard Hogg, west :    the streete south :     John Palmer,
senior,  east :    and William Hudson, senior, and also with Robert
Scott, north.
'22  (3)  1G47.   Francis Smith of Boston  granted  unto  Amos
Richardson of Boston, 2 Acres of land purchased I)}'  him of Ed-
mund Jacklin and Richard Sherman, being bounded with W'". As-
pinwall north :     the cofuon on the west :    the  streete on the south :
Jane Parker, W". Townsend, P^dmuud Jacklin, Edmund Jackson
and Ephraira Pope, east.   This was by a deed dated the 22 (3)
1G47, and signed before William Aspinwall, publ. Notary.
John Palmer, senior, his possession in Boston.
One house and garden or houselott bounded with AmosRichard-
eon,  west:  Gamaliel Waite, east: Robert Scot  and 3'oug W™.
Hudson, north: and the Mill streete, south.
[103.]  Gamaliel Waite his possession in Boston.
One house  and  lott  bounded with  John  Palmer west :      Mr.
Thomas Oliver, north :    Benjamin Negoos easterly :    and the Mill
streete south.
Also one garden  plott  bounded with  Richard  Hollich, east
:
Elizabeth Purton, west :   William Blaintaine south :   and the streete
ou the north.
Benjamin Negoos his possession in Boston.
One house and lott bounded with Gamaliel Waite, west :   Madie
Engles, east :    Mill streete, south :     and M^ Oliver, north.
[104.]  lladie Engles his possession in Boston.
One house and lott  bounded with M"".  Scott, north :     Benjamin
Negoos,  westward:  William  Deming,  eastward:  and the  Mill
steed  southward.
William Deming his possession within the limits of Boston.
One house and lott bounded Capt. Keine, north :     Madie Engles,
west :     and Benjamin Gillora, easterly :     and the lane southeast.
[105.]  Richard Gridley his possession in Boston.
One house and lott  bounded with the streete south and west
:
the Bay, easterl}" :    and John Harrison northerly.
 - 245 - 
38         City Docuiment No. 46.
—
Part 2.
Also another lott bounded with Robert Turner northwest :    John
Harrison southwest :    the Baj' southeast :     and the Fort, northeast.
John Harrison his possession in Boston.
One house and lott bounded with Richard Gridley southerly-
the Bay, easterly :     Richard  Gridle^',  northerly :     Robert Turner,
westerly.
[106.]  Nicholas  Baxter his jpossessioyi  within the  limits  of
Boston.
One house and lott bounded with the streete or lane, north and
west :    Edward Browne and the Bay, east :    Mathew Ij'ons, south-
ward.
Edward Brotvne his possession in Boston.
One house and garden bounded with Nicholas Baxter northei'ly
and westerly :     the Ba}' easterly :     and Mathew lyons southward.
[107.]  Mathew lyons his possession in Boston.
One house and lott  bounded with the lane westward :    Nicholas
Baxter and Edward Browne, northward: the Bay, eastward :    and
W". Netherland southwards.
William Letherland* his possession in Boston.
One house and lott bounded with the lane westward ;    the bay
eastwards :    Matthew lyons northward :     and Abel Porter and the
Cove southward.
[108.]   W"'.  Teft his possession in Boston.
One house and  lott bounded with the Cove, south :     the lane
east :    the Mill streete, north :   and Thomas Munt and     Tuttle,
westward.
Thomas Muntspossession in Boston.
One house and lott bounded with W". Teft, east and north :   the
Cove, south :    and Jonathan Negoos westward.
[109.]  Jonathan Negoos his possessiori in Boston.
One house and lott bounded with Thomas Munt, east :    Thomas
Foster, west :    Wilham Teft, north :     and the Cove, south.
Thomas Foster his possession in Boston.
One house and lott bounded with Jonathan Negoos, east :    Rich-
ard Woodhouse, west :    M". Tuttle, north :    and the Cove, south.
Sould to \V'". Browne, p. 130.
The 30 (7) 39.   Boston granteth to Tho. Foster, the Com'dr. at
the Castle Island, a great lot at the Mount for six heads, uppon
condition  expressed for INIount Woollaston lands.   This land is
49 Acres, bounded towaixl the north with land of M^ Haughs :
toward the west with land of M'".  Benjamin Keaine :    toward the
•This name was first spelled by the clerk as iV^etherland, as in the preceding line.
It should be Zetheiiand.
 - 246 - 
The Book of Possessions.             39
south with the land of Francis Lyall :    toward the east with land
of Nathaniell W"', and Francis L3-all.   If it  be aliened from the
towue, the}- require 2 Acres in seven to be returned to  the towne,
or 2s. M. in steed thereof.
Teste John Oliver, secret.
[IIO.]  Richard Wooclhouse Ids possession in Boston.
One house and houselott bounded with Thomas Foster on the
east :   John Vyall on the west :     Georg Griggs on the  north :     and
the Cove on the south.
Georg Griggs Ids lott and jyossession in Boston.
One houselott bounded with M". Tuttle east :    William Davies
west :    John Vyall south :    and the millne streete north.
[1 11.]   Thomas Bdls possession in Boston.
One house and lott bounded with WiUiam Davies east :     Richard
Hollich west :   William Blantaine on the south :    and the streete on
the north.
Richard Hollich his possession in Boston.
One house and lott bounded with Thomas Bell,  east :    Gamaliel
Waite, west: William Blaintaiue, south: and the streete north.
[113.]  Christopher  Lawson his  possession  in  the  towae of
Boston
.
20 (11) 1645.  Richard Bellingham ofBoston, Esq. :  granted unto
Christopher Lawson of Boston the one equall p'portionable halfe of
the marsh land anciently granted to him by the towne of Boston,
lyeing betweene his owne howse which hebought of ^V. Symons, and
John Lowes.  As appeareth by a deed dated 4 (4) 1644.
Richard Bellingham and a scale.
Witnes
Samuel Bellingham
Thomas Lake.
20 (6) 1646.   Thomas Buttolph of Boston granted unto Chris-
topher Lawson of Boston a p'cell of land in the Mill field, contein-
ing four Acres and halfe, be it  more or lesse, bounded with bay
north east :     Nicholas Parker and Val.  Hill northwest :    and Chris-
topher Stanley south :   and this b}' deed dated 20 (6) 1646, acknowl-
edged before John Winthrop, Governor.
[113.]  Robert Nunney his possession in the toivne of Boston.
25  (1)  1646.   David Selleck of  Boston granted unto Robert
Nanney his house and garden thereunto belonging with ten foote
broade for a way leading to the said garden, (foi-merly purchased
of Christopher Lawson) and also ten foote of the wharfe in breadth
from John Hills, and in  length from the Dock to his house :    being
bounded with John Hills and the streete westerly :   the marsh north-
erly :   the marsh and Nathaniel Long easterly :    and the Cove south-
erly :    as appeares by a deed of sale dated 25 (1)  1646 and the
same day acknowledged before M^ Winthrop, Dep. Gov^
David Selleck and a scale.
 - 247 - 
40        City Document No. 46.
—
Part 2.
Also David Sellcck granted sixe foote more of the wharfe next
adjoyneiug unto the former ten foote, and this b^y deed of sale with
Avarrant}' against all men, and provision that ho should leave roome
to passe upon the wharfe, and land goods as the rest of the neigh-
bours doe.  Dat. 29 (5) 1G4G andacknowledged the same day before
M'". Winthrop, Governor.
16 (7) IG50.   Paul Allistre granted to Robert Nanney his dwell-
ing house in Boston, taken in execntion of a Judgm'. against Rich:
Straine, bounded with the land of Thomas Lake southwest :   Arthur
Perry northeast :     Robert Wing northwest :   and the cove southeast,
(being in  breadth 31 foote as appeares by the apprisement), to-
gether with the land and wharfe to the sd. honse belonging: with
warrantie against all that shall challeng any title thereto, by, from,
or under him or Richard Straine or his p'decessors :   and this was
by a deed dated 16 (7) 1650.
Pau. Allistre and a seale.
[114 is blank.]
[115.]  ilF. Roger Fletcher his possession in Bostoyi.
26 (4) 1646.   Jeremy Houtchin of Boston in the Massachusetts,
tanner, granted unto Roger Fletcher, late  of London, merch'. his
dwelling house, garden, orchard and tanpitts in Boston, bonnded
with Benjamin Thwing, south :      John Ruggle and Widdow Huune
east :    Sudbury streete west :     and the lane north.   Also a parcell
of land bounded with John Newgate, sonthwest :    M^ Staughton,
northwest: the highwa}', northeast: and Thomas Ludkin, south-
east: and this was by an absolute deed of sale, dat. 26. (4) 1646.
Acknowledged the same day before M^ Richard Belhngham.
[116.]  Nicholas Busbie his 2'>ossession in Boston.
22 (6)  1646.   Edmund -Jacklin of Boston granted unto Nicholas
Busbie, worsted weaver, his dwelling house and garden, be it half
Acre more or lesse,  bounded wuth Edmund Dennis north :     W™.
Townsend south :    the highstreete east :   and Edmund Jacklin west.
Acknowledged before the Governor. John Winthrop, esq''. ;    22 (6)
1646.
[117.]   William Hailestones possession in Boston.
29 (6) 1646.   Edward Fletcher granted unto W". Hailestone,
late of Tanton, taylor, part of his dwelling house, viz', the north
end thereof, being 13 foote north and south, and twenty sixe foote
east and west or thereabout ;     with halfe  his garden, being thus
bounded :      with Thomas Painter north :     the Highway east :      Na-
thaniel Woodward and Edw. Fletcher south :    and the High streete
and Edward Fletcher west :     this was by a deed dat. 29 (6) 1646,
ac]i;nowledged before the Governor the same day.
This is againe aliened, p. 128.
[118.]  Henry Shrimpton his possession in Boston,
28 (7)  1646.   Anthony Stoddard and John Leverit sould unto
Hcnr}' Shrimpton of Boston, Brassier, a dwelling house and garden
in  Boston, bounded with the water streete south: the new streete
 - 248 - 
The Book of Possessions.             41
east :     M^ John Wilsons * west :    and John Parker north :   and this
was by an absokite deed, dat.    (5) 1640: acknowledged the 26
(7) 1040, before John Wiuthrop, Governor.
[119.]  Abraham Page his jwssessfon in Bonton.
22 (8) 1640.   John Steevenson granted his house and 3-ard to
Abraham Page, which is bounded with Nathaniel Bishop east :     the
Fort streete north :   and Robert Peinolds south and west :   as ))y his
deed dated 22 (8) 1046 doth appeare.   Acknowledged before M\
John Winthrop, Governor, the same day: this is  sould to John
Hauset, page 120.
[120.]  John Hansett his 2^ossession in Boston.
Abraham Page granted unto John Hansett of Roxbury his house
and yard in Boston, bounded on the east with Nathaniel Bishop :
the Fort streete on the north :    and Robert Reinolds on the south
and on the west: as appeares by his deed dated the 22 (8) 1040 :
acknowledged before John Winthrop, Governor, the same daj-.
[131.]  Ilezekia Usher his possession in Boston.
1.
2.  Edmund Jackson of Boston granted unto Hezekiah Usher of
Boston his house and garden in  Boston, bounded with ]M^ John
Wilson north and east :   the market steed south :    and John Coggan
west :   being in front to the street 25 foote, and fourty foote docpe :
and this was by an absolute deed of sale,  dated I    (12)  1046.
Acknowledged before John Winthrop, Governor, 2 (12) 1640.
[132.]   W"^.  Wicks his 2Wssession in Boston.
12 (1) 46.   John Sweete of Boston granted unto W'". Wicks of
Boston a certaine house and gardenin Boston, bounded with Thomas
Aukorsoutheast :   Christopher Stanley southwest and northwest :   To
have and tohould to him and his hcires for ever :    dat. 25 (12) 1644,
and Acknowledged 12 (1) 1646, before John Winthrop, Governor.
[123.]  Joseph Phippeni his possession in Boston.
One housplott which formerl}' was Anchor Ainsworths, and bv
Henry Rashley, Attorney- to  the sd- Anchor (as 1)}'  his p'curation
dat. 8 (7) 1645 may appeare) sould unto the aforesaid Joseph :    as
by his deed of sale, dat. 30  (1)  1647 may appeare: which deed
was acknowledged before John Winthrop, Governor, the said 30
(1) 47.
[124.]  The possession of John Jephson in Boston.
James Oliver by vertue of the last will and testament of John
Oliver late of Boston deceased, hath granted unto John Jepson
the house and garden in  Boston which formerly was M". John Oli-
vers :     bounded with Valentine Hill southeast "and northeast: the
streete, northwest :      and John Pierce and John Knight southwest
:
as also the  lott of Thomas Marshall which (for one rod length
* Name indistinct.
 - 249 - 
42        City Document No. 46. —Part 2.
abutteth on the southwest at the southerly end of John Knights
and John Pierces lott :     and this was bj^ an absohite deed of sale
dated 30 (2)  1G47, and acknowledged before the Governor the
same day.
[135.]  Thepossession of John Anderson in Bocton.
Edmund Grose of Boston granted unto John Anderson of the
same, shipwright, his dwelling  house  in Boston, situat next to
George Halsalls :    and this was by an absolute deed of sale dat.
1  (3) 1647, and acknowledged before the Governor 20th (3) 1647.
[126.]  Francis Smith his possessions in Boston.
22  (3)  1647.   Edmund Jaclin of Boston gi-anted unto Francis
Smith of Boston, one Acre and halfe of land, be the same more or
lesse, which was b}- him formerly purchased of Daniell Maud and
Rich. Cooke, being bounded on the north with AVilliam Aspinwall
:
the  CoHTon on  the west :     Eichard Sherman on the south :     and
W". Towusend, Edmund Jacklin, Edmund Dennis and Ei)hraira
Pope on the east :      and this was by a deed dated, sealed and d'd
the 22 (3) 1647 before William Aspinwall, publ. notary.
22 (3)  1647.   Richard Sherman of Boston granted to Francis
Smith of Boston, halfe an Acre of land in Boston, bounded with
the said P^rancis Smith north :     the CoiBon west :     the streete south :
and Jane Parker east :    and this was by a deed dat. sealed and d'd
the 22 (3) 1647 before William Aspinwall, publick Notary.
Both these are sould, see page 1U2.
12  (7)  1648.   W"\ Hudson of Boston,  Junior, did  sell unto
Francis Smith of Boston, his  p't  in  the dwelling house of W™.
Hudson, senior, being fourty six pound (the whole being one hun-
dred and thirty) :     and this was by an absolute deed of sale, dat.
sealed and delivered 12 (7) 1648, in presence of W™. Aspinwall,
Not. publ.
1  (10) 1648.   John Milom of Boston, Coop., granted unto Fran-
cis Smith of Boston his p't in the dwelling house of W'". Hudson,
senior, beinge fourty pounds sterl.  (the whole being 130'') :     and
this was by an absolute deed of sale, dat. 29 (12) 1637.
5 (11) 1648.   W'". Chamberlaine assigned unto Francis Smith
and his heires forever his house and ground thereto belonging,
formerly bought of the sd.  Francis, being bounded on the north
with the lane :    on the east with the highstreete :    Richnrd Carter
on the south :    and the Coiiion on the west.   This assignment was
dated 4 (11) 1648.
W*'. Chamberlaine.
This house was againe sould to Ri. Wilson :     p.
18 (2) 1651.  Ambrose Leech of Boston for valueable consider-
ation granted to Francis Smith a p'cell of land in Boston in breadth
all  betwecne the house which is  Joseph Wormalls and the land of
the sd. Francis, being at the streete eight or nine foote more or
lesse, and so according to the range by the end of Joseph Worm-
alls house, unto the wharfe or Cove :     and this was by a deed dat.
16 (2)  1601.   Signed, sealed and d'd. in presence of W™. Aspin-
wall, Not'y publ.
 - 250 - 
The Book of Possessions.             43
[127.]  The possession of Arthur Clarke in Boston,
5 (5)  1G47.   Ilemy Pease of Boston, plauter, granted unto Ar-
thur Clarke of the same, carpenter, a eertaiue p'cell of ground,
being in breadth fourty two foote and h at the front, and ninety 8
foote and J-  in length on the southwest side :    the other side being
ninety one foote and J-  :    and the end 38 foote :    bounded on the
southeast with the streete :     Mr. Paine southwest :     and liis  owne
lott on the northeast and northwest :    and this was b}^ an absolute
deed of sale, dat. 28 (4) 1G47, and acknowledged before M'. Nowel
5 (5) 1647.
I, W". Ting, doe heereb}- Give halfe my five lots of land of the
Betweene goodm. Fippenuys and the bridge in Boston to
my Couzen Jno. Francklyn, to him and his heires for ever.   Bos-
ton.   15, 11'"°-  lGo2.                           p me AVm. Tynge
Entred and recorded 2 Feb. 1G52, p. Edw. Eawson, Recorder.
The testimony of W°\ Francklin, aged about forty five  years
:
being by occasion at M^ W"\ Tings house upon the 15 (11) 1G52,
hard M''. W'". Tinge say that one half of the five  Roods of land
belowe the high way betweene the bridge and goodman Fippennies,
he did give to his Cozen John FranekUn, and would confirme it by
deede to him.
Taken upon oath, the first  of the 12'"°-  1652 before Mr. Hib-
bins.
Entred and Recorded, 2d  February 1G52.   Edward Rawson,
Recorder.
This deede of guift within written under Capt. W"\ Tings own
hand, I,  W"\ Phillips, jun., of Boston do testifie  that it was d'd
unto myBrother John Franckling by M''. Willm. Tinge in mypres-
ence :    witnes my hand this (1) day of the 12 mo. 1G52.
Taken upou oath the I  of the 12 mo. 1G52 before Mr. Hibbins.
Entred aud Recorded 2d february 1G52.   p.      Edw. Rawson,
Recorder.
[128.]  Richard Lippincot his p>ossessio7i in Boston.
31 (5) 1G47.   William  Hailestone  of Boston,  Tailor, gTanted
unto Rich.  Lippincot of Boston, Barber, his house aud garden in
Boston, boundedwith Tho. Painter north :     the high street and Ed-
ward Fletchers garden west :    the high way east :     Nathaniel Wood-
ward and Edward Fletclier south :     and this was by an  absolute
deed of sale,  dat. 31 (5)  and acknowledged before l^P.  Endicot
10th of the G"°- 1G47.
[129,]  John Vyall his possession in Boston.
One house and garden containeing halfe an Acre bounded on the
east Richard Woodhouse :     the high wayon the west :   Georg Griggs
north :     and the marsh and Cove on the South.
Aliened to W™. Cosin, Booke 2, page 27.
[130.]  W"'. Broivne his possession in Boston.
Thomas Foster granted to W"\ Brown late of Salem, his house
and garden in Boston, bounded with Jonathan Nogoos east :     Georg
Griggs north :     Richai'd Woodhouse west :     and Cove south :     and
 - 251 - 
44         City Document No. 46. —Part 2.
this was by an absolute deed dat. 13 (8) 1G47 :    and acknowledged
before the Governor the same day.
[131.]  Thomas Beamont his jwssession in Boston.
Thomas Foster of Boston granted unto Tho: Beamont of Lon-
don, JMariner,  fourtie  nine Acres of land at Mount Woollaston,
bounded on the north with M''. Atherto Ilaugh :    Benja-min Keane on
the west :    Francis Lyle south :     Nathanicll Williams and Francis
Lyle on the east.   And this was by a deed of absolute sale, dat.
9 (8) 1G47: and acknowledged before the Governor 19 (8) 1G47.
Also he granted a hyewa}' of six foote to be maintained between
Barnabas Fawer, James Mattox, Arthur Perry and his owne, at
the head of the lotts.   14 (1) 1C48.
[133.]  William Chamhedaine his possession in Boston.
9 (9) 1G47.   Francis Smith granted unto William Chamberlaine
liis house and garden together with the shopp and houseinge unto
the same belonging, being bounded on the north with the lane :    on
the west with tlie Coinon :    the high streete east :    and Richard Car-
ter south :     and this was by an absolute deed dat, 30th of October
1G47; acknowledged the 9 (9) 1G47 before M"". llibbins.
This was again assigned to Francis Smith, see p. 12G.
[133.]  Barnabas Fawer his jjossession in Boston.
14 (1)  1G47.   Valentine Hill of Boston granted unto Barnabas
Fawer of Boston, a houslott in  Boston bounded with the Cove
southeast :     the lane northeast :     James JMattocks southwest :      and
his owne norwest :     and this  by an absolute deed of sale, dat. 23
(9)  1G4G, and  acknowledged  before  M^ W". Hibbins, 14 (7)
1647.
[134.]  James Mattox his possession in Boston.
14(1) 1 G47.   Valentine Hill granted unto James Mattox in Bos-
ton a certaine  houslott in  Boston, bounded with Arthur Perry
southwest :    the Cove southeast :     Barnabas Fawer northeast :     and
his owne land northwest :     and this was by a deed dat. 23 (9) 1G4G,
and acknowledged before M^ W™. Hibbins 14 (1) 1648.   Also he
granted a hyewaye of six foote to be maintained at the head of the
lotts of Barnabas Fawer,  James Mattox and Arthur Perry for
theire accommodation and his owne.  14 (1) 1G47.
[135.]   The possession  of  Robert  Turner,  shoomaker,  in
Boston.
14 (2) 48.   Valentine Hill  granted  unto  Robert Turner, one
house  and garden  in  Boston,  bounded with  Thomas Buttolph
north :    Thomas Hawkins south :    John Biggs west :     and the streete
east: and this was by deed dat. 1  (10) 1G44, and acknowledged
before M^ Bellingham 10 (2) 1G48.
[136.]  Thepossessions of Ciristopher Clarke of Boston.
12 (3) 1G48.   Nicholas Willis of Boston granted unto Ciiristo-
pher Clarke of the same, mariner, his house and garden in Boston
 - 252 - 
The Book of Possessions.             45
bounded with Jolin Bntton southwest :      the street east :     Thomas
Painter northerly- :    and James Everill westerly :    and this was by
an absohite deed of sale dated 12 (3) 1G48.
N1CI101.AS "Willis and a seale.
Sealed and d'd in presence of
William Aspinwall
James Allison.
[137.]  Tlie possession ofJames Nash in Boston.
7 (4) 1G48.   John Milom of Boston granted unto James Nash
of Wayraouth, a ccrtainc parcell of marsh in Boston, being fourty
foote in breadth at the front, bounded with the Mill creeke south-
west ;    the highway northwest :     M^ W". Ting northeast and south-
east, as farr as low water markc :     and this was by a deed, dated
and sealed before William Aspinwall, Notary publ.   7 (4) 1G48.
[138.]  John Lake his 2')ossession in Boston.
14 (4) 1648.   Richard Hogg of Boston sould unto John Lake of
Boston his house and garden in  Boston, bounded with John Mar-
shall south :    Nathaniel Eaton north :    Amos Richardson and W".
Hudson east :    and the high streete west :    as appeares by a deed
dat. 21 (8) 1G45.   witnes Philemon Pormort.  bould to Thomas
Wiborne, p. 139.
26 (4)  1648.   Thomas Wibourne granted unto John Lake of
Boston a certaine p'cell of land, conteineing eleven perches be the
same more or lesse,  being bounded with Robt. Reinoulds on the
north and the east :    Edward Fletcher south :     and the high streete
west: and this was by an absolute deed, dat. 26 (4) 1648, sealed
and delivered before me, William Aspinwall, Notaiy publick.
[139.]  Thomas Wiborne his possession in Boston.
14 (4) 1648.   John Lake granted  unto Thomas Wiborne  his
dwelling house in Boston andlhe garden thereto belonging, bemg
bounded on the south with John Marshall :    Nathaniell Eaton north :
Amos Richardson and W™. Hudson east :     the high streete west
:
and this was by an absolute deed of sale. Dated the 14 (4) 1648,
before William Aspinwall, publick Notary.
[140.]  John Phillips his possession in Boston.
16 (4) 1648.   John Milom granted unto John Phillips all that
his dwelling house and shop and garden in Boston, bounded on
the northeast with John Hill :      the lane southwest :      Tho. Yow*
northwest :      and the  Cove southeast :      and this was  sealed and
delivered  the  16  (4)  1648, before me, W". Aspinwall  Notary
publ.
[141.]  Henry Browne his possession in Boston.
20 (4) 1648.  "WilUam Douglas of Boston granted unto Henry
Browne of  Limehouse, mariner, a parcell of  land,  part of  his
houselott in  Boston, containeing  fifty  six  perches, three  quar-
*This name is often spelt Yeo.
 - 253 - 
46        City Document No. 4G. —Part 2.
ters, of land, be the same more or lesse ;    being in front at the sea
thirty one foote,  and in front toward the streete fyve rod, three
foote,  or  thereabouts :      bounded on the  northeast  with  Joseph
Baster, the River and W°'. Douglas :     on the southeast with W".
Douglas and the streete :    on the southwest, with W"". PhiUips and
:     and on  the  northwest with Joseph Baster and
Thomas Anchor :     and this was by an absolute deed of sale, sealed
and d'd in  presence  of me, William Aspinwall, Not. publ.  the
20 (4)  1G48.
[143.]   TF". Douglas his possession in Boston.
Walter Merry in behalfe of himselfe and Thomas Anchor, granted
unto W". Douglas of Boston, Coop., one dwelling house in Boston,
scituate betweene the lotts of John Sweete and John Seabury, to-
gether with the shopp which was Thomas Anchors and the ground
thereunto belonging :    and this was b}' an absolute deed of sale dated
1  (3)  1G4G, acknowledged before W. Belhngham 15" (4)  1648.
Walter Merry granted unto W™. Douglas one little house with
the ouse* late  in the tenure and occupation of John Newgrove,
ftdjo3'ing  to the former house and ground, to have and to hould
the said house and ground to him and his heires forever.   Dat. 12
(1) 1G47, and acknowledged before Mr. Bellingham, 15 (4) 1648.
[143.]  John Baker his possession in Boston.
1 (4) 1G48.  Joseph Phippeni granted unto Joh. Bakerthe moietie
or one halfe  of his house  lott,  being in breadth twentie  foote,
bounded on the south with Thomas Savage :     W"'. Phillips west
:
the said Joseph Phippeni north :     and the Bay east :     and this was
by an absolute deed ofsale, sealed andd'd in presence ofW"\ Aspin-
wall, publ. Notarie.
[144.]  M''.  TF". Davies, Apothecari/, his possession in Boston.
2 (G) 1G48.   Valentine Hill of Boston granted unto W™. Davies
a certaine p'cell of land in  the Newfiicld in  Boston, being foure
Acres more or lesse, bounded on the north with James Pen :    John
Biggs and James Pen on the west :    Robert Turner on the east
:
and Thomas Buttolph on the south :    and this was by an absolute
deed of sale  sealecl  and delivered  before W". Aspinwall, Not.
publ. the 2 (G) 1G48.
[145.]  Richard Beniiet his possession in Boston.
26 (6)  1648.   W™. Phillips and  Susan his wife granted unto
Richard Bennet of Boston twoe or three Acres of land in Boston
in the Mill field, bounded with theire owne land northwest, south-
west and northeast :     and on the southeast with the lands of the sd.
Richard Bennet and W". Phillips :     and this w^as by a deed sealed
and delivered 26 (6) 1648, before W^illiam Aspinwall, Not. publicke.
12 (1) 1650.   Thomas Clark of Boston, merch'., for valueable
consideration  rec"d.,  granted to  Richard  Bennet of Boston one
quarter of an Acre of land in Boston, in  the mill field, bounded
* Th>i8 ia the origifial.
 - 254 - 
The Book of Possessions.             47
with the barne and bai'iie j-ard  of the  sd. Rich, on the northeast:
the streete southeast :    AV". Phillips southwest and northwest :    and
this was 1)3' a deed dated 12  (1) iGaO, before me W". Aspinwall
sealed and delivered.
[146.]  Richard Straine his j^ossession in Boston.
25 (7)  1648.   Valentine Hill of Boston granted nnto Richard
Straine of of* Boston, one Acre of laud in Boston, be the same
more or lesse, being bounded on the southwest with M^ Nathaniell
Eldred :     M^ John Oliver and the high waj^es northwest and north-
east :   Arthur Perry and the greate Cove southeast :   and this was by
an absolute deed of  sale  dated the 27lh of August  1G48, and
Acknowledged by M^ Hill before mee W™. Aspinwall 25 (7) 1G48.
Witnes Henr}' Shrimpton and Thom. Bomsted.
[14:7.]   George MicheU his ^wssessioyi in Boston.
10 (8) 1G48.   Joseph Phippeni of Boston granted unto George
Michell a house and house lott  in Boston, bounded on the north
with Capt. Thomas Hawkins :     John Baker on the south :     the Ba}"
on the east :   and W"\ Phillips on the west :   and this was by a deed
dat. 10 (8) 1G48, before W". Aspinwall, Not. publ.
[148.]  John Langdon his 2^ossession in Boston.
Nathaniell Woodward, Junior, granted unto John Langdon of
[Bo]tston, his dwelling house and garden in Boston, being bounded
on the  [south]! '"'ith  Richard Waite :     Edward Fletcher on the
north :    Nathaniell Bishop on the east :     and the high streete on the
west: and this was by an absolute deed, dat. IG (8) 1G48, sealed
and d'd before William [Aspin]-j-wall and Robert Button.
[149.]  liice Jonies his possession in Boston.
17 (9)  1G48.   Robert Burnam granted nnto Rice Jones of Bos-
ton  a  houslott  in  Boston, bounded on the  south with  Robert
Burnam :    ould Rawlins on the north :    the highway cast :     and W™.
Phillips west: and this was by a deed, dat.  17J (9) 1G48, before
W". Aspinwall, Not. publ.
[Here ends the Record of Possessions, the next page, the reverse
of p.  149, being  occupied with  part of a contemporaneous in-
dex.  At the foot of pp. 145-149 are some notes of stray cattle
recorded in  1G75 b}^ Free Grace Bendall, and in  1G93 by another
clerk.]
*Repeated tliu's.
tJSTcaily illegible in oi-iginal.
jThis date imy be read 27 (9) 1648.
 - 255 - 
48        City Document No. 46.
—
Part 2.
The following document is  undoubtedly worth a place ;    it is at
the foot of p. 145 :  —
Massachusetts Collony       John Leverett, esq"". Gov'.
IN New England
[The Seale.]     To all people who shall see these presents or
hearc them read, greeting.   Know yee that Lancelott Talbott and
Joseph Smith have bought of the Tresurcr of this Collony seaven
Indians, viz'.  George, William,  Hawkins, great  David, Ivoulcy,
John Indian and Tommoquin, which Indians were sentanc'd to be
sould for slaves :   to which end the said Talbott and Smith maytrans-
port them to any place out of this Continent.   In testimony of the
truth hereof, I have caused the publique seale of the Collony to be
affixed hereunto, this  22 of 9'"'  lG7o, Ano'q. Regni Regis Caroli.
secundi nunc Aug* xxvii.
John Leverett, Gov'.
Recorded and compard, 20"". 9*".  75, pr, F. Bendall, Rec.
* The next word is indistinct.
 - 256 - 
INDEX TO THE BOOK OF POSSESSIONS.
Adams, 5.
Addington, 23.
Ainsworth, 21, 41.
Alcock, 33.
Allington, 15.
Allison, 45.
Allistrc, 40.
I  Anchor, 46.
I  Ankor, 41.
Anderson, 9, 12, 42.
Angler, 14.
Arnold, 8.
(  Aspinwal, 1.
i Aspinwall, 2, 5, 6, 8, 12, 13, 14, 16,  17,  19,
20, 21, 23, 24, 20, 27, 28, 29, 30, 31, 33, 35,
37, 42, 45, 46, 47.
Astwood, 28.
Baker, 46, 47.
Barker, 30.
Barlow, 11.
Barrel!, 18,19.
Bastcr, 4G.
Bateman, 35.
Bates, 13, 18, 23.
Baulston, 17.
Baxter, 38.
Bay, the, 1, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 15, 21, 22, 29, 34,
38, 46, 47.
Salt, 8, 19.
Beamont, 44.
Bcaraslcy, 7, 22, 25, 31.
)   Heck, 14, 15, 23,25.
I  Bccko, 1.
Bcek, 14.
j  Be), 35.
i
Bell, ::9.
Belchar, 33, 34.
I  Belcher, 33.
Bcllingham, 1, 3, 9, 10, 12, 14, 16,  19,  20, 28,
33, 40, 44, 46.
Bondr.ll, 2, 3, 8, 13, 16, 20, 21, 22, 47, 48.
IJennet, 7, V'>, 46.
Big!<s, 1, 7, 14, 15, 25, 44, 46.
j
ijishop, 21,23, 36,41,47.
Bishopp, 36.
Blaintaine, 35, 37, 39.
I
Blantaine, 39.
Blot, 32.
f  Blott, o2.
Bomsted, 30, 47.
Boston necke, 16.
Bosworth, 5. 7, 13, 15, 23, 25, 28, 29, 30, 31.
Bourne, 7, 8, 34.
Bow'cn, 19, 35.
Brackelt, 24.
Braiiitrec, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 15, 18, 19, 21, 29, 31.
Bridgham, 26, 27.
Brisco, 3:!, 34, 35.
j  Brown, 5, 14, 43.
J  Browne, 1, 5, 0, 14, 23, 29, 38, 43, 45.
Burden, 3, 4, 7, 13, 17, 18, 21, 23, 32, 34.
Buiiehig Place, 20.
Burnam, 47.
Bnsbie, 40.
Buslnvell, 17, 20.
Buttolph, 2, 5, 14, 15, 22, 25, 28, 33, 35, 39, 44,
46.
Button, 2, 15, 18, 19, 45, 47.
(  Carabridg, 35.
I  Cambridge, 2.
Carter, 4, 14, 32, 33, 42, 44.
I  Causway, the, 16.
I  Cawsey, the, 15.
Cedar Swamp, 7, 25, 30, 33.
(Chaffe, 11.
\ Chaffie, 5, 11, 12.
I ChaUy, 5.
Chamberlaine, 42, 44.
Chaplaino, 33.
Chappcll. 11, 12, 31.
Charlestowno, 15, 16, 28.
Cliecvcrs, 8.
Church at Dover, 31.
( Clark, 10, 15, 16, 46.
] Clarke, 7, 9, 10, 11, 12, 16, 17, 22, 25, 31, 32,
(    4J,  44.
Clerk. 5.
}  Coaics, 29.
ICole, 5, 8, 0, 10, 11,12,28,35.
Cosgan, 1, 3, 5, 7. 19, 41.
( Colbornc, 26, 33, 34.
< Colbourne, 23.
(  Coleborne, 33.
Common, Boston, 2.
Comon, The, 2, 0, 7, 14, 17, 23, 24, 25, 28, 29,
_30, 31 ,  32, 33, 34, 35, 37, 42, 44.
Couion, Ilocky, 5, 15, 29.
Compton. 2G, 27.
I
Cook, 19.
)  Cooke, 9, 13, 15, 19, 22, 23, 29, 30, 31, 42.
Copp, 5.
Corncwcll, 17.
(  Corser, 24.
)  Courser, 3, 4, 24.
Cosin, 43.
Cotton, 1,3,21.
Cove, the, 1, 2, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10,  11, 12, 14, 15,
18, If), 20, 21, 22, 23, 26, 27, 34, 38, 39,
40, 42, 40, 44, 45.
Fisher's, 1.
Grate, 47.
Cox, 15.
Cranwell, 33, 34.
Creeke, the, 12, 14, 27, 28.
Crecko Mill, 4, 20.
i  Critchley, 26.
J
CVychley, 25.
Crosse, 34.
)  Croychely, 26, 34.
)  Croychlcy, 26, 34.
Cuddington, 36.
Cullimer, 9, 10, 11, 16.
Cullimore, 6.
Dane, 2, 12.
D.ivies, 4, 5, 6, 7, 22, 23, 29, 30, 35, 39, 46.
Davis, 15.
Dedham, 2, 33.
Dcming, 26, 37.
Dennis, 29, 30, 31, 40, 42.
Devotion, 34.
Diggcs, 7.
Dinelov, 26.
Dinsdalc, 27.
Dorchester, 16.
Douglas, 45, 46.
Downing, 17.
 - 257 - 
50       Index to the Book of Possessions,
Dowse, 3. 18.
Bunster, 3, 15.
East, 22, 30.
I  Eaton, 22.
JE.itoii,25, 30,36, 45.
Elclrcd, 47.
Eliot, 22, 25, 26, 33, 34.
Endicot, 43.
Encland, New,11, 24, 25.
Englcs, 37.
Essex Co. 11.
Evcaiis, 14.
Evcrcd, 1.
I  Evcrdl, 9.
I
Kvcrill, 0, 9, 14, 18, 19, 24, 28, 31, 32, 45.
Fairobanks, 3, 4, 15, 17, 23, 27, 28, 29.
Fane, 3, 13, 35.
Farnam, 6.
Faiilconer, 5.
Fawcr, 44.
Field, Gentry, 30.
Fort, -Si.
Mill, 5, 7,10, 18, 28, 39, 46.
Milne, 15.
Kew, 3, 4, 7, 13, 14, 15, 17, 18, 20, 22,
23, 25, 28, 29, 30, 31, 46,
Fippenny, 43.
Fish, 6, 7.
Flacko, 32.
Fletcher, 28, 36, 37, 40, 43 45, 47.
Flint, 32.
Fort, the, 38.
Foster, 8, 38, 39, 43, 44.
Fo-wlo, 2, 15, 33.
Foxcroft, -iO, 21.
{Krancklin, 43.
Franckling, 43.
Francklyn, 43.
Franklin, 3, 14, 20.
Gallop, 11, 12, 29.
Georges, 18.
S
Gibone8,2, 3, 6, 14, 20.
(  Gibons, 2.
Gibson, 5.
Gillom, 26, 27, 37.
Glover, 3, 17.
Goodwin, 5, 6.
Gore, 11.
Goultrop, 19.
Greames, 3, 17.
Green, the, 27.
Gridley,22, 24,33, 37,38.
Griggs, 8, 35, 39, 43.
j  Grose, 42.
}  Grosse, 6, 7, 9, 22.
Grubb, 7, 25, 29,30.
Gunnison, 3, 17.
Hailstone, 40, 43.
Ilalsall, 42.
J
Ilaiiset, 41.
I  Il.ansctt, 41.
llarkcr, 7, 32.
Hiirrison, 37, 38.
Ilarwood, 21.
Dangh, 2, 27, 29, 30, 38, 44.
Ilawcs, G.
Ilawgbton, 12.
Hawkins, 3, 7, 8, 12, 13, 14, 15, 16, 19, 21, 25,
44,47.
( Hibbens, 23.
} Uibbins, 2, 22, 23, 25, 26, 27, 32, 31, 35, 43,
I     44.
Highway, the, 1, 3, 4, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, 15, 16,19,
21,22,23, 34,40. ^3, 45, 47.
"nill, 4, 0, 7, 9, 10, 11, 12,  13,  14, 15, 20, 21,
22,24,25, 28,  29,  31,  30,  41,44,  45, 46,
Hills, 1,22, 39.
Hill, Gentry, 3.
Fort, 22, 27.
( Hogg, 22, 3C, 37, 45.
)  lloggc, oG.
Uollieh, ;i7, 09.
Houtehin. 1:J, 18,40.
Houlbiii, 3.
How, 45,
Ilowen, 4, 13, 18.
Hudson, 3, 10, 11, 12, 13, 15, 17, 19, 22, 23,28,
2'.>, 30, 37, 42, 45.
Hull, 8, 35,33.
Hunne, 3, 4, 9, 18, 19, 40.
Hunt, 19.
Hurd,35, 36.
Hutchinson, 4, 15, 21, 25, 26, 27, 30.
Island, Cislle, 38.
Hogg, 30.
Spectacle, 33.
lyons, 38.
j
Jacklin, 31, 37, 40, 42.
(  Jaclin, 42.
Jackson, 4, 5, 7, 8, 13, 17, 19, 37, 41.
Jeofifrcys, 16.
(  .Tephson, 41
j  Jepson, 41.
Johnson, G, 7, 15, 17, 29, 32.
Jones, 47.
Jonies, 47.
Jov, 9, 10.
Judkins, 19, 36.
{Keaine, 38.
Kcane, 44.
Ke.ayne, 3, 4.
Kcine,23, 21, 27, 37.
4  Kenrick, 27, 2S.
I  Kcniicke, 4.
Kirkby, 12, 13.
Knight, 3, 9, 10, 17, 41, 42.
Lake, 36, 39, 40, 45.
Lamb, 14.
Lane, the, 8, 9, 11, 12, 13,  15, 17, 18, IS, 20, 23
24. 20, 31, 32, 33,34, 35, 37, 33, 40, 42, 44,
4").
Langdon, 47.
Lawson, 15,16, 21,22,39.
\  Le.auger, 15.
I
Lcger, 2, 23, 31, 32, 33, 35.
Leech,42.
Letherl.and, 38.
f Leveret, 4.
ILeverett, 48.
Leverit, 4, 5, 6, 7, 12, 14, 19, 20, 23, 24, 27,
32, 40.
Leveritt, 11.
Lippincot, 43.
London, 40, 94.
Lonir, 21, 39.
(  Low, 10, 45.
}  Lowe, 1, 14, 39.
Lovall, 7, 20.
Ludkin, 40.
Lugg, 23, 29.
Lyail, 39.
Lyle, 2, 30, 44.
Mainard, 19.
Makepeace, 13, 18.
Marketplace, 5.
Market Steed, 7,41.
Marsh, the, 3, 4, 5, 7, 10, 12, 15, 17, 18, 23, 26,
27, 34, 39, 43.
Coramon, 1, 21.
Mill Field, 3.
Uumney, 7, 28.
Marshall, 3, 4, 9, 10, 33, 37, 41, 45.
Marlin, 24.
Mason, 10, 23, 32.
Massachusetts, 40.
(  Mattocks, 44.
I  Mattox, 44.
 - 258 - 
Index to the Book of Possessions.        51
(  Maud, 3, 29, 31, 42.
I  Maude, 1,3.
Mcercs, 4, 13, 26.
iMocrs, 21.
MekiiiB, 11.
McUowes, 4, 5, 7, 9, 11, 15, 17, 19, 29.
Merry, G, 22, 46.
Mcssingcr, 14, 25, 26.
Motson, 31.
Michell, 47.
Mill, the, 20.
crcekc, 10, 20, 45.
damme, 29.
lane, 36.
pond, 2.
Milland, 26.
Millard,25, 29,30, 31.
Milom, 2, 4, 6, 9, 10, 11, 12, 20, 22, 42, 45.
Monotacut, 19.
Mount Wallaston, 38, 44.
Munt, 8, 14, 38.
Nanncy, 39, 40.
Nash, 2, 20, 21,45.
Ncgoos, o7. 38, 43.
Nethcrland, 38.
I  Newberry, 11.
)  Newbury, 11.
Newgate, 3, 13, 28, 40.
Newgrove, 46.
Nowel, 43.
Nutter, 31.
Odlin, 35.
Offley, 34.
Oliver, 2, 3, 4, 9, 11, 15, 21, 23, 24, 32, 37, 39,
41,47.
Ormebie, 30.
Page, 41.
Paine, 43.
Painter, 18, 19, 32, 40, 43, 45.
Palmer, 36, 37.
Parker, 4, 13, 15, 20, 22, 23, 24, 25, 26, 28, 30,
31,33,37,39,41,42.
Parsons, 4, 23, 32.
Pasmer, 10, 11.
Pease, 6, 14, 19, 23, 43.
Pell, 3, 27.
Pellon, 34.
Pen, 4, 15, 23, 27, 28, 46.
Pcnniman, 13.
Pepes, 31,32, 33.
Perry, 2, 23, 20, 27, 29, 30, 32, 40, 44, 47.
Phillips, 7, 16, 20, 43, 43, 46, 47.
Phippeni, 3, 11,41,46,47.
Pierce, 1, 9, 10, 15, 21, 22, 41, 42.
Plimley, 31.
Pope, 29,30, 31, 37,42.
(  Pormort,45.
)  Portmort, 19.
Porter, 24, 28, 38.
Powell, 24.
PullenPoynt, 1, 15.
Purton, 36,37.
Rainsford, 34.
Rashley, 41.
Rawlins, 10, 16, 47.
Rawson, 25, 43.
(  Reading, 35.
)  Readinge, 35.
Reinolds, 21, 28, 36,37, 41, 45.
Rice, 3, 27.
Richardson,22, 36, 37,45.
River, the, 5, 13, 10, 23, 32, 46.
Charles, 2, 8, 25.
Meriraack, 11.
Monotaquid, 7.
Monot.^quit, 5, 9, 15, 29.
Monotoquit, 9.
Muddy, 2,  7, 14, 18, 25, 30, 31, 32, 33,
34,35.
Newbury, 11.
Roberts, 28.
Roe, 34.
Roote, 14, 30, 34.
Roxbury. 2,41.
Ruck, 10.
Ruggle, 13, 28, 30, 31.
Rugglcs, 40.
8alcm, 17, 43.
Salter, 20, 34.
Saltonstall, 12, 17.
{  Sanfford, 30.
\  Sanfoi-d, 12, 13, 25.
Savadgc, 8, 19, 29.
}  Savng?, 9, IG, 18, 19, 21, 29, 46.
Scot, 23, 27, 28, 37.
)  Scott, 4,22, 23,37.
Scotto, 1,13, 14, 1 'J, 25, 30, 32.
Sea, the, 1,6,8, 15,23.
J
Seabcrry, 6, 22.
}  Seabury, 46.
I  Sedgwick, 25.
I  Scdgwickc, 25.
Selleck, 4, 39, 40.
/  Scllick, 4, 21, 22, 31.
Serch, 35.
Shaw, IS, 19.
Sherman, 2, 27, 29, 31, 37, 42.
i  Shoarc, 11, 12.
)  Shore, 5, 9, 12, 22,
Shrimpton, 40, 47.
Sinet, 2, 15, 35.
Smith, 2, 6, 7, 37, 42, 44, 48.
\  Snow, 33.
I  Snowe, 2.
Souther, 24.
Spoone, 3.
Spoore, 2, 16, 24, 27.
Springate, 2, 4, 23.
I  Stanley, 1,  6,  8, 10, 14, 15, 16, 17,
I Stanly, 10.
Starbuck, 31.
j
Staughton,40.
(  Stoughton, 4.
\  Steevenson, 23, 41.
(  Stevenson, 26, 37.
Stillman, 17.
Stoddard, 3, 20, 40.
Straine, 40, 47.
Stratton, 16.
Streele, the, 1,  2, 3, 4, 5,  6,  7,  8,  9,
13, 14, 15, 17, 18, 19, 20, 21,
24, 25, 26,27,28,29,30,31,
34, 35, 36, 37, 38, 39, 41, 42,
46, 47.
Gentry Hill, 14, 15.
Cove, 3.
Fortt, 3, 37, 41.
High, 2, 3, 19, 23, 26, 27, 30, 33,
37,40, 42,43,44,45,47.
Market, 3.
Mill. 8, 35, 37, 38.
Millne, 39.
New, 40.
Sudbury, 3, 4, 13, 14, 21, 40.
Water, 3, 40.
Sweete, 5, 6, 11, 22, 29, 41, 46.
)  Symonds, 14.
ISymons, 1,9, 10, 21,39.
i  Syndcrland, 28,29.
(  Synderlant, 23.
T.albott, 48.
I  Talmage, 33, 34.
)  Talmidge, 2.
Tanton, 40.
Tapping, 26, 37.
Tcft, 8, 38.
Thomas, 24.
Thompson, 8.
Thwing, 3,13,14,40.
fTing, 17,43,43.
Tinge, 43.
^ Tings, 11.
I   Tyng, 2, 3, 13, 16, 17, 18,21, 28.
ITynge, 1,24.
3,  41.
10, 12,
22, 23,
 - 259 - 
52       Index to the Book of Possessions.
Townsend, 31, 37, 40, 42.
Toy, 10.
(  'J'ruesd.iiie, 21.
j  Triiosd.ilo, 2o, 28, 30.
Tunicr, 13, 24, 25, 26, 27, 38, 44, 46.
Tuttlc, 7, 8, 38, 39.
Usher, 4, 5, 41.
Vyall, 39, 43.
Waite, 28, 36, 37, 39, 47.
Walker, 17, 33, 34.
Ward, 20, 27.
Watering Place, 35.
Way, the, 12, 22, 37.
Waymoulh, 4a.
( Web, 19.
} Webb, 5, 7, 15, 17, 21, 23, 29, 32.
( Wecbb, 4,
Weeke.s 16.
Wells, 22.
Wcrdall, 5, 9, 11, 15, 18,  19, 29.
Wheeler, 35.
White, 36.
I  Wiborno, 45.
i Wibourne, 45.
Wicks, 6, 41.
Willard, 31.
Williams, 26, 30, 44.
Willis, 18, 19, 44, 45.
Wilson, 2, 3, 5, 7, 13, 14, 15, 18, 19, 20,28, 30,
35,41,42.
Wind Mill, 30.
Wing, 19, 23, 32, 40.
f Winthrop, 1, 2, 4, 5, 7, 15, 19, 22, 24, 25,32,
J      3'), 39, 40, 41.
1 Winthrope, 24.
IWinthropp, 1,4, 32.
Woodhouse, 38, 39, 43.
( Woodwar, 37.
\ Woodward, 14, 15, 26, 27, 30, 33, 34, 35,36,
(         40, 43, 47.
Wonnall, 42.
Wright, 18, 30.
Yow, 45.
George, 4S.
Great David, 48.
Hawkins, 48.
John, 48.
Ilouley, 48.
'J'omnioquin, 48.
WiUlam,48.
INDIANS.
 - 260 - 
APPENDIX.
NOTES ON BOOK OF POSSESSIONS.
It has already been mentioned, in the Introduction to this Part,
that  Mr. Winsor had  furnished  in  the  second  volume  of the
Memorial History of Boston, plans and descriptions elucidating
the Book of Possessions.   By the kindness of  the publishers of
that book, and in concurrence with Mr. Winsor's consent, leave was
obtained to  reproduce that sketch ;    but, on furtlier consideration,
this  idea was somewhat changed.  Mr. Winsor's plans were not
exact parts of one map ;    as, for satisfactory reasons, he repeated
some parts of one plan in another.   In other words, if his several
plans were cut out and laid side by side, they would not make one
continuous map.
On the other hand, Lamb's map was constructed on a continuous
S3'stem.   Of its  ten sheets,  nine contained portions of the outline
of old Boston.  It seemed, therefore, best to reduce his sections to
a size suited to our pages, and to give a number to each estate.
In the reduced form it  is  impossible to give the names of the
owners of lots,  as Lamb has done, or to give his boundary lines.
This is  the less  to be regretted, because, as already stated, those
lines are purely imaginary.  On the other hand, by using plans
covering exactly tlie  same territory as Lamb's, the present notes
can always be used as a key or guide to those larger plans.
The writer has accordingly carefully revised the reduced plans
and indicated the lots b^' numbers.  For the descriptions Winsor's
text was used wherever it could be, the additions and corrections
being put in parenthesis and initialed.   In this wa}' the first place
is  given to Winsor, who is  entitled  to the credit of having first
suggested and executed the method of making the Book of Posses-
sions  available  to  tlie  general  reader.   In a few instances the
revision has led the editor to differ from Winsor and Lamb, but
in most of the descriptions tliere is no cause for doubt.
Of course much remains to be done in tracing each lot from
the  first  grant  to  the  present  time.   Mr.  Bowditch's  Gleaner
articles (volume five of the Record Commissioners' Reports) show
how interesting  the  study of old  titles  and boundaries may be
made.  As the Book of Possessio7is gives bounds and not measure-
ments, the size and form of the first grant can be discovered only
when these lots became subject to sale or division.
 - 261 - 
54        City Document No. 46.
—
Part 2.
It is confidently hoped that the plans, descriptions, and number-
ing now submitted to all interested, will  prove of sufficient assist-
ance to stimulate renewed labor in  the investigation of our early
topograph}^  The annexed table  will show that all  of the  first
gi'ants recorded in the  Book of Possessions  have been located,
with a reasonable degree of accuracy, covering thus the first one
hundred and eleven pages of that work.
Undoubtedly the publication of the second portion of the Boston
Town Records (A.D. 1660-1700), now in press, and to be issued
as a Report of the Record Commissioners, will supply many facts
hitherto unknown.  Much also remains to be gleaned from the
first volume of those Town Records already printed.   Even the
Records of the Colon}-, published by the State so many years ago,
have  apparently not  been  systematically examined for  Boston
items.
When the  necessary  material  has  been gathered, it  will  be
possible to write such a history of Boston as will satisfy the anti-
quary ;    and it is not perhaps absurd to anticipate that in another
century the inhabitants of our Western States will trace the noted
localities in Boston with the same reverent interest with which we
now visit the cities and towns of England.
WILLIAM H. WHITMORE.
 - 262 - 
KEY TO EEFEEENCES.
In the following list  tlie  Boole of Possessions is  followed page
by page, and the reference shows on which of  the  subsequent
maps and explanatory notes each lot  is  to be found.   No notice,
of course, is taken of the lots granted outside of Boston, nor of
the transfers by deed.
Orisinal
 - 263 - 
56         City Document No. 46.
—
Part 2.
47.
 - 264 - 
 - 265 - 
58         City Document No. 46.
—
Part 2.
[Note. —Map A, or No. 1,  of Lamb's system is  merely an
outline composed of the other nine joined together.   We give the
same as our folding Map A.—W.H.W.]
Map B,  or No.  2.
 - 266 - 
MAP B, OR NO. 2.
It does not appear that any grant of land was made so far south
as this.   The east end is  about on Castle street,  which was the
south line of William Colborn's field.   The cross-lines in the centre
agree with the fortifications,  which were a little  south of Dover
street.   A few items from the town records will show the use made
of the land.   Oct. 28, 1G39, Samuel Sherman was allowed to keep
up his cow-house, which he had built upon the common by the gate
next Roxbur}', and had leave to mow the plot " compassed about
with small creeks next the great creek between Roxbur}^ and us."
April 27, 1G40, Sherman's leave was renewed, and he was " en-
joined to set his fence straight, so as he do not encroach upon the
highway."  He had liberty for several years to mow there.
2Gth, Gmo, 1G44, " It  is  ordered and agreed with James Penn,
that in  consideration of his  land at the Fort hill,  be it  more or
less, he shall have three acres laid  out next to William Ilibbins
his laud near Roxbury gate."
On May 31, 1G52 {^uff.  Deeds, i.,  211), William Hibbins, of
Boston, sold to Margery Eliot, widow, for the use of her children
by elder  Jacob Eliot,  her late husband, five  acres of land near
Roxbury gate, bounded north and south b^' laud of Jacob Eliot,
west by Boston Common, east b}' the highway to Roxbury.
And at the same time James Penn sold to Maigcry Eliot,  five
acres at Roxbury gate, part marsh, part upland, bounded b}' land
of Mr. William [Hibbins? —the name is  lacking]  south, Boston
Common north, Roxbury creek west, and the highway to Rox-
bury east.
About the same time, May 27, 1G52 (Col. Rec, iii.,  274) it is
recorded that " In answer to the petition of Margery Eliot, widow,
for the confirmation of the sale of a certain parcel of land,  sold
by the deacons of the Church of Boston, administrators to  Sara.
Sherman, unto Joseph Eliot, deceased, ordered," —that an answer
be delayed until next session, and that the administrators give an
account to the next County Court.
May 7, 1CG2 (7^ec., Vol.'iv., Part ii., p. 47) the Court decided on
the petition of Samuel and Nathaniel Sherman, and Mary Clarke,
children of the late Sam. Sherman, against Mr. Colborn, adminis-
trator, that they had no cause of complaint.
28th, 2 mo. 1G45, liberty was granted to Widow Howen to cut
ha}' for the wintering of one cow, in  some part of the marsh near
Roxbury gate, where cattle cannot come to feed.
11th,  1  mo, 1G50, Peter Oliver was allowed £15 annually for
seven years to maintain the highways from. Jacob Eliot's  barn to
the farthest gate by Roxbury town's end, for cart and horse.
W.H.W.
 - 267 - 
Map C,  or No.  3.
(60)
 - 268 - 
MAP O, OR NO. 3.
LOTS NO 1   TO NORTH SIDE OF BOYLSTON STREET, FROM
WASHINGTON STREET TO THE BACK BAY.
C. a.  Garret Bourne. See F. 104.   East side of Washington st.
C. I.  William Colborii.  [House and garden, with  J.  Leger
north, the High street east, the lane and E. Belcher south, no west
bound.  This  was the  north-west  corner  of Washington  and
Eoylston streets. —W.H.W.]
C. 2.  Edward Belcher.   [House and garden, with Mr. Colborn
east and north, the lane south, W. Talmage west.   Evidently a
front lot, with Colborn's lot behind it.    It was afterwards divided.
Bernard Trott bought the west half, being 70 feet wide and 71 feet
deep, and the east half was given in  the same year to Mary, wife
of Edward Belcher, Jr. —W.II.W.]
C. 3.   AYilliam Talmage. [House and garden, with the street
south, E. Belcher east, T. Snow north and west.  In 1GG9 Talmage
sold the west halfof this lot to Bernard Trott. It was G3 feet south
on Snow's lane, west 57 feet on Snow, north 54 feet on Snow's
orchard. The east half was sold in 1704 b}^ Anne Flack, as heiress
of Talmage, to William Griggs, bound south on the street 48 feet,
west by Griggs (who must iiave  got  the  Trott  half), north by
Piatt GO feet,  east by land late of Talmage G4 feet.   Thus the
full lot was 64 feet on the east, 131 feet on Boylston street, 114.
feet on the rear, and 57 feet on the west. —W.H.W.]
C. 4.   Thomas Snow.  [Lot not recorded, but clearl}-  shown
in  bounds of C. 3 and C. 5.   In iGG7 Snow sells  to H. Usher,
T. Lake, and P.  Oliver, his old dwelling-house "on which  the
sign of the Dove is  fasteneil."  He sells  in  breadth south to  the
path leading to his new house which faces on the street, and so to
the fence which parts the house lots  from the pasture ;    and also
the pasture, which has this fence south, Colbron and Talmage east,
the lane issuing out ofthe Common west, and land now fenced in
by Gov. Bellingham north.   After Snow died his widow, Milcha,
or Milcah, married William Wiight, and in  1G72 they sold  the
pasture above described  to Thomas Platts.   In 1G78  the  heirs
made a  division.   They were  Samuel Snow,  Mehitable  Snow,
Meletiah, wife of Samuel Fisher, of Braintree, and Abiguil wife of
William Wright, Jr., her step-brother.   (In 1G83 Samuel sold his
lot to Piatt.)
 - 269 - 
62         City Document No. 46.
—
Part 2.
A plan is recorded (Siiff. Deeds, ii., f.  82)  which is  here given
as one of the earliest in our registry.
'Jauti'?       CC -t^
•tCLn.tL^
'^'f^""^^    ^^^^^^i^'^^<^
The lot of Gov. Bellingham, mentioned in  1667, was evidently
the lot granted hira 29th. 3 mo. 1665 {Boston Records, Vol. 2, p.
20), as follows:   " In consideration of Land received of Richard
Bellingham, esq, for the Town high way toward Eoxbury, in  ex-
change thereof we have granted and laid  out a square piece  of
ground butting upon Tliomas Snow on the south, and Mr. Col-
bron on the east, and the Common on the west, and north as it  is
now fenced in."   Bellingham had given 33^ rods  to  the  street
{Records, Vol. 2, p. 16),"which wasat the time, September, 1664,
when Washington street was laid out south from Boylston street
on the present line.   The old road to Roxbury was east, follow-
ing tlie beach.
[The lane west, now Tremont street,  must have been laid out
between 1665 and 1667. —W.H.W.]
C. 5.   Robert Walker.   [House and garden, with  the  street
south,  the  Common  north,  T.  Snow  east,  W.  Brisco  west.
—W.H.W.]
 - 270 - 
Appendix.                   63
C. 6.   William Briscoe.   [House and garden, with the street
—south, tiie Common north, R. Walker east, and     Flacke west.
W.II.W.]
C. 7.   Cotton  Flack.   [Lot  not  recorded.   In  1058, Jane,
widow of Cotton Flack, sold to Thomas Clarke a house and garden
of about half an acre, with a common lane  south,  the  Common
north,  Goodman  Brisco  east,  and
i
said  Thomas Clarke  west.
29th. 4 mo. 1640.   " Cotton Flack hath a house lot  granted him
in the way from Mr. Coleburne's house to the sea, next to Good-
man Briscoe's."    (Boston  Records,  vol.   1,  p.  44.)   In  1G7G
Clarke sold ihis  lot  to  his  son-in-law Thomas Baker, sen., who
married his daughter Leah.  Their children were Thomas, John,
Mar}-, and Rachel, who married George AValdron.   These Bakers
sold to their brother-in-law Waldron, in  1704, land bounded east
300 feet on Edward Bromfield, north  2G1 feet on the  Common,
west 3G1 feet on the Common, south 438 feet on the  street.   In
1714 Waldron sold his  lot to Col.  Thomas Fitch, whence it  came
to Andrew Oliver, Jr., who sold to AVilliam Foster in  1780, from
whom the town in 1787 bought it.
As Flack had Clarke west, it  is  perhaps useless  to inquire  how
much was covered by Flack's lot.   Evidently Clarke was the most
westerly owner, and the lane " turned south to  the  sea,"  leaving
some common land and marsh outside him at the west. —W.H.W.]
C. 8.   Jacob Eliot.    [House and garden, with  the  highway
east, W. Talmage west, the  lane north, and Mr. Colborne's field
south.   This is the south-west corner of Washington and Boylston
streets, where the market now stands.   In the division of Eliot's
propert}' this went to his son-in-law, Theophihis Frary, thence to
his daughter Abigail, wife of Berechiah Arnold, then to her onl}^
child,  Hannah, who married Samuel Welles.   The market-house
was moved south eleven feet in 1870. —W.H.W.]
C. g.  William Talmage.   [His lot  No. 2, a garden  bounded
with J. Eliot east and south, the street north, and R. Walker west.
This lot seems in lG90to be in  possession ofCapt. Samuel Veazie
(see his will, Suf. Wills, xi., 243), and so in accordance with deeds
of adjoining estate.    He was twice married, left no issue, but had
five sisters.   Yet, in 1706, Anne, widow of Cotton Flack, as niece
and sole heiress of William Talmage, sold this lot to John Clough.
(Stiff.  Deeds, xxii., 486.)   Her mother was Christian Belcher, own
sister to Talmage, and Anne was the only daughter.   (See deposi-
tion of John Marion.)   (Deeds, xxi., 644.)
Clough, or a son of the same name, seems to have remained the
owner in  1740, when  Holyoke  street  was laid  out  through it;
a street  also  called Clough street, and now Tremont  street. —
W.U.W.]
C. 10.   Robert Walker.   [His second lot,  with  W. Talmage
east, the street north, J. Cranwcll west, and J. Eliot south.  This lot
seems to have passed to Thomas Downes prior to 1674. and to have
been exchanged by him with his brother-in-law, Capt. Jacob Eliot.
Eliotgave it, 19 March, 1678-9, to his son-in-law, Eliziir Holyoke,
when the lot was about 60 feet  wide and 132 feet deep.   I  have
been obliged to assume various unrecorded divisions of the Eliot
 - 271 - 
64        City Document No. 46. —Part 2.
lands among the various branches of the family', in  order to make
anj' sense out of the existing deeds.—AV.H.W.]
C. II.   John Cranwell.  [House andgarden, with Robert Walk-
er east, the street north, R. Root west, and on the south two acres
belonging to the same ;    which two acres had the garden north, Mr.
Roe east, R. Croychle}' w-estand south.   Cranwell's lots went to his
brother, Richard C. of Woodbridge, in the county of Suffolk, who
in  1642 made his brother-in-lavv,  Thomas Marrett of Cambridge,
hisattorne3\   Marrett sold, in 1652, to Margery, widow ofthe first
Jacob Eliot.   In fact Dea. Eliot had bargained for the lot  before
he died, and left it bv will  to his daughter Hannah, who married
Thoophilus Erary
.—
"W. H. W.
]
C. 12.   Ralph Roote.   [House and garden, with J. Cranwell
east, J. Cranwell and R. Croychley south, W. Salter west, and the
street north.   This lot  was sold  in  March, 1659-60, to  James
Balston.— W.H.W.]
C. 13.   William Salter.   [House and garden, with  R.  Roote
east, the street north, J. Eliot and R. Croychley south, the Com-
mon west.   This was the end lot,  on the south side of Boylston
street.   In 1689, at a division of Salter's  land, this lot  was as-
signed to his son Jabcz, when it  bounded north and west on the
highway to Fox Hill, south on J. Eliot, east on the marsh in the
occupation of the heirs of John Leverett.  I suspect that there had
been  an  encroachment by the  sea  between  Salter's  land  and
Roote's lot, as Ihis marsh on the east  seems  new.  Frog Lane
" turned southerly to the sea," in  1708, according to the list  of
streets ;    and we know the " Round Marsh " was the old terminus
of the road.— W.H.W.]
C. 14.   William Salter.   [His lot No. 2, being an acre in  Mr.
Colborne's field, with the Common north, the Bay west, J.  Eliot
south and east.   This lot  w^as sold in  1678 by Mary, widow of
William Salter, to John Leverett.—W.H.W.]
C. 15.   Richard Croychley.   [His lot No.2, being two acres in
Mr. Colborne's field, with J. Eliot east and west, R. Parker south,
W. Salter north.  This lot he held in right of his step-children, he
having married Alice, widow of William Dinely.   This lot of 2^
acres seems to have been sold in  1669 by Father-gone Dinely to
Jacob Eliot, when the south bound was on lands of .John Leverett,
who seems to have the Parker  lot.   Perhaps  Dinely exchanged
with Eliot, for in 1675 D. sold to Leverett 2i acres '' latel}' bought
of J. P'.liot," with Colborne's heirs south, Eliot north and east, the
sea west.   All of Ihese  Leverett  lots  seem to  have  passed  to
Elisha Cook, son-in-law of J. Leverett.— W.H.W.]
C. 16.   Richard Parker.   [Lot not in the Book, but mentioned
—inthe bounds of C. 15.  UndoubtedU' it passed to Eliot or Leverett.
W.H.W.]
C. 17.   Sir. Roe.  [Lot mentioned as east of Cranwell's lot, C.
11, but not otherwise mentioned.
20lh, 4 mo., 1646, land at Mount Wallaston was laid  out for
Owen Roe (or Rowe) of London, " having a house and town's lott
among us and certain cattell."  He never came here, and doubtless
this lot passed to some resident. —W.H.W.]
 - 272 - 
Appendix.                   65
C. i8.   William Colborn.  [His field not laid down in the Book,
though cited  in  C.  15.  Croycliley's lot was the great end grant.
By a  decision  of our  Supreme Court,  in  184U (Sparhawk vs.
Bullard, 1 Met., 9a), it was fixed that Colborn's south line was the
north side of Castle street.   If,  as I  suppose, John Cornish was
an heir of Colborn, then the Dincly lots were the north bound of
the Colborn field.   The subsequent liistory of this land is connected
with that of the Eliot property, in  the hands of Eliots, Frar3-s,
Lillics, Belchers, and others. —W.II.AV.]
AVinsor writes,  " Here, upon what was later known as Hollis
street,  upon land given by Governor Belcher, who lived  in the
neighborhood, a small wooden meeting-house was built in 1732, in
which Mather Byles was the first  minister.   This building stood
upon the present site  of the church till  1787.   Byles lived in a
house whose site  is  partly covered by Tremont street,  opposite
where Shawmnt avenue enters it.    Belcher lived on the easterly-
side of the main street, on the lot  between the present Harvard
and Bennett streets.   (Drake's Boston, 585.)   Belcher's mansion
was bought in  17G5  by Thomas Amory, the lo\-alist..   For the
grants south of Castle street see Gleaner Articles, No. 13."
C. ig.   [Not located on map.  This is William Davies, Sr.'s,
lot No. 3, thus described :        " One acre bounded with Jacob Eliot
east and south, Mr. Colbourne west, and the sea on the north.  This
lies in Mr. Colborne's field."   {Book of Possessions, p. 57.)  Th.is
description is ver}'  bevvildering, for there is no part of Colborne's
field where the sea is  north.   Possibly it  means some lot on the
east side of Washington street,  but it  must be studied up care-
fully. —W.II. W.]
C. 20.   Lots  not located.   [It  seems that 27th, 7 mo., 1G41,
" there is  a house-lott graunted to John Search neare unto the
house-lott of Robert Walker."  Again, 29tli, 7 mo., 1G45, ''  there
is graunted unto Arthur Clarke ahowse-lot next unto the house-lot
of John Search, to be layd out by Wm. Colbron and Jacob Eliot."
In the Book of Possessions, p. 05, William Blaintain's lot No. 2
is "'  a  house-lott, bounded with John Serch west, William Brisco
cast, the street south, and the Common north."   But on the 30th,
1  mo.,  1G4G, " William Brisco, Tho. Buttolfe,  [Jacob] Leager,
William Blanton, John Search, Robert Woodward, that hath hows
lots unbuilt on them, shalbe warned to the next townse niettinge."
As Cotton Flack, 29th, 4 mo., 1G40, had a house lot granted liim
in the way from Mr. Coleboriie's house to the sea, next to Goodman
Briscoe's,  which  he held  afterwards,  and  as  Blaintain's  grant
would have l)een  this  very lot, and Serch was west of that,  and
Clark next to  Serch, it seems extremely probable that these tlu-ee
grants were " unbuilt on," because Mr. Flacic protested.  Wemay
safel}' assume that they came to nought. —W.II.W.]
 - 273 - 
Map D,  or No.  4.
(66)
 - 274 - 
MAP D, OR NO. 4.
Tlie outline given herein is that of the Common, and of the part
which was probably never granted.   As already shown by Map C,
there was a row of house-lots on the north side of Boylston street,
which the town long afterwards bought back.   It would be useless
to tr}- to fix the extreme norih boundaries of these, as  thej' have
again been merged in Boston Common.
The island herein shown is  Fox Ilill,  a small eminence  long
since dug down, but which was probably near the site of the pres-
ent pond in the Public Garden.  The lower part of the Common
was a marsh, and this hill must have been quite small in size.   It
was, however, sometim'es utilized.   In lG4{)Leonaid Buttall was
allowed to burn lime there, and in  1G41 to  have a second Uibi,
" provided that  he shall  have no  propriet}'  of land  by virtue
thereof."   In 1G49 Thomas Painter was allowed to  set up a mill
there at forty shillings rent.
3d, 2 mo., lGo2.   " Ensign James Oliver  and Sargent Peter
Oliver are granted liberty for to set up a wind mill on the  top of
the hill between the town and the hill called Fox Hill ;     which said
mill they are to fence in from harm and damage unto any cattle,
and to pay unto the treasurer of Ihe town the sum of 12d. per year
to be paid yearly on the forfeit of 5s. for every quarter of a  year
which it shall not be paid into the treasurer, it being demanded in
due season, the time to begin the first day that the said mill  shall
grind, and to continue to be paid unto the town so long as the mill
shall there stand.
" Also, —the chief military commander of this town, and also the
chief commander of the regiment hath power at anytime oflheir
military exercise whether of the town or regiment for to cause the
mill to stand still, —within the grant of this liberty to set up this
mill, is reserved as a condition to be performed by the owners for
employers of the said mill."
Feb. 2G, 1GG5, the selectmen made a lease to Gov. John Leverett
of a parcel of land lying and lacing in  Boston aforesaid, calh d or
known by the name of Fox Mill, with all the marsh about the same
as far as the salt water flows,  bounded with  the  Plighway south,
with the Town's Commons cast and north, and with the Beach and
Sea west.   It was to be for a term of forty  j'ears,  at  an  annual
rent of thirty shillings, with liberty reserved for the inhabitants to
fetch sand or clay from the hill.
Fox Ilill continued to figure on our maps to the beginning of the
present century, sometimes marked as a promontory, but once at
least as an island.
W.H.W.
 - 275 - 
Map E,  or  No.  5.
(68)
 - 276 - 
MAP E,  OR NO. 5.
E. I.   John Cogan, ^ acre.   Cogan's executrix sold to Joshua
Scottow,  1G59,  and lie  to  Colonel Samuel Shrimpton, in  1G70,
and he in  turn to John Oxenbridge, in  1671, who left  it  to his
daughter, wife of Richard Scott, and they conveyed it  to her sis-
ter's  husband, Peter Thacher, in  170G.   It  then  passed, in 1707,
to Samuel RIyles ;    in  1728, to George Cradock, and, in  1733, to
John Jeffries  (son of the emigrant David Jeffries), from whom it
passed to Samuel Eliot.   {Gleaner Articles, No. 33.)
[It was his lot  No. 2, about half an acre, with Mr. Bellingham
north, Mr. Wilson south, the  burying-place east,  and the New
Field west. —W.H.W.]
E. 2.   Rev. John Wilson's garden-plot, divided by the street,
when laid out in 1G40;  and the portion north of the  street,  in
16.58,  belonged to Elder James Penn, of the First Church, who
devised the estate to his kinsman. Colonel Penn Townsend, whose
executor, in 1750, sold it to Samuel Sturgis, and thence the title
passed through John Erving, Gilbert Deblois,  Nathaniel CofRn,
and John Amory, to Samuel Eliot, and became his mansion estate.
(^Gleaner Articles, No. 33.)
[James Brown, Book, p. 41, has a half acre in the new field,
with Mr. Wilson's garden north-east, A. Messenger north-west,
the Common south. —W.H.W.]
E. 3.   James Pen.   [I cannot find that this lot was mentioned
in the Book of Possessions.   It was the hill-side, with the summit
rising high above it,  and was undoubtedl}' considered valueless at
this  date.   The changes made b}' cutting down the hill and open-
ing streets  make it  almost impossible to fix an}' lines on a map.
Bowditch gives all the information attainable, and even he has to
generalize.   I cannot agree with Winsor (see his Map F, Nos. 15
and IG), that William Kirkby or  Richard Sanford owned here.
Penn owned here as early as 1658, says Bowditch, having the cor-
ner lot  (the  "Albion"), in  all  70 feet,  on Tremont street;  he
probably acquired of Coggan or Wilson. —W.H.W.]
E. 4.   Robert Turner.  [This great tract, made up of purchases
and possible grants, is  not in the Book.  Gleaner Art. 36 shows
that in 1665 Turner bought 1^ acres of land of William Pell, hav-
ing Turner east and south ;     Bowditch thinks that Turner had some
eight  acres,  including all  the front land on Beacon street from
Penn's lot,  or Somerset street,  to  the  State  House.  The east
bound was five feet west of Somerset street.   Turner's son-in-law,
John Fayerweather, died in 1712, owning 124 feet on Beacon street,
at the east portion of the Turner lot, reaching to Freeman place.
 - 277 - 
70         City Document No. 46.
—
Part 2.
He had sold the west part, 135 feet on Beacon street, to Pollard,
whence derived James Bowdoin.  Other heirs of Turner inherited
other parts. —W.II.W.]
E. 5.   Thomas Millard.   [His lot  No. 2,  with the Common
south, N. Eaton north, T. Scottow east, R. Truesdale west.  This
calls for a lot for Scottow, east, possibly sold to Turner before this
date; part of his front line wliich Turner owned in IGoo.   Joshua
Scottow also has lot No. 2, two acres in  the new field, possibl}^
hereabouts. —W.H.W.]
E. 6.   Richard Truesdale.   [His lot No. 2, three-quarters of an
acre, with the Common south, N. Eaton north, T. Millard east, Z.
Bosworth west. —W.H.W.]
E. 7.   [An unrecorded lot  of Nathaniel Eaton, north of E. 5
and E. 6, —i.  e., as I take it,  up the hill  towards or beyond Mt.
Vernon street. —W.H.W.]
E. 8.   Zaccheus Bosuortii.   [His lot No. 2, being two acres in
the New Field, with the Common south, W. Wilson and J. Rug-
gles norlh, R. Truesdale east, J. Parker west. —W.H.W.]
E. 9.   Jane Parker.   [Her lot  No. 2,  with Thomas Millard
east, Z. Bosworth, W. Beamsle_y, and R.Sherman norlli-west, Sel-
lick Caappel, Lever and Pepys southerly. —W.H.AV.]
E. 10.   These seem to have been granted, lGo7-38, to William
Hudson, Jr.,  Nathaniel Cha[)pell,  and Oliver Mehows.  Later,
Chappell was bounded on either hand by David Sellick and Jacob
Leger, when Leger's lot  is  called about an acre.   Francis East
acquired this, and perhaps the other lots later still.
[Thus far I substantially agree with Lamb, except that he puts
Francis East here at the date of the Book, when, in reality, he
seems to be of later date.  See Gleaner Article^ No. G6. —W.H.W.]
E. II.   Richard Pepys.   [Not entered in the Book, but cited
in E. 9. —W.ILW.]  it was William Blackstone's reservation of
six acres when he sold his rights to the town, in 1G3I.   The orig-
inal  release of Blackstone to the town was in 1734, in the Town
Clerk's  office, but is  not now to  be found.   The signatures of
Blackstone in the Memorial History, Vol. 2, are from the records
of the university at Cambridge, England, and I owe the tracings
to the kind attention of the Rev. George Phear of Emmanuel Col-
lege.   The}' respectively represent his writing at the dates of his
taking his bachelor's and master's degrees.   His orchard is indi-
cated on Bonner's map as an enclosure with trees, just east of the
present Louisburg square.  The limits of the lot are defined in Bovv-
ditch's Gleaner Artides^   No. 1, quoted in Sewall Papers^ i.,  74.  It
extended on Beacon street,  from Spruce street, " the north-east
corner  of  Mr.  William  Blackstone's  payles "  (Town Records,
March, 1G37-38), to the water, then flowing above Charles street.
(See diagram in  Mr. Adams's chapter in Mem. Hist., Vol. 1.)
Richard Pepys bought it,  and built a house on it,  which William
Pollard  occupied for  nearly fourteen  years, during which time
Blackstone " frequently resorted to it "  on his vi?;its  from Rhode
Island, as Anne Pollnr(l deposed in 1711.   {Sevjall Papers, i.,  73.)
Pepys sold  it,  in  1G55, to  Nathaniel Williams, and Williams's
widow marrying Peter Bracket, the latter conveyed it to Williams's
 - 278 - 
Appendix.                   71
children.   The original house appears to have been standing, as
Mr. Ilassam points out to me, in 1GG2, when the inventory of the
estate of Nathaniel Williams, led that year, shows this item: " It.
the House and land y' was m' Blackston's.   [£]150 :   00 :  00."   In
1708-9 the orchard and pasture were sold to Thomas Bannister,
and it  appears as  "Bannister's Gardens" on  Ikugiss's map of
1728.   '"Gleaner" traced  this  descent of the lot  in  1828, and
printed the story in the  Boston Courier^ and repeated it  in the
Transcript in 1855.   (See also Gleaner Articles, No. 50.)   The lot
was later a part of the possession of John Singleton Coplc}-, the
painter, and from him passed to the Mount Vernon proprietors.
LOTS No. 12 TO 22,  INSIDE THOSE BOUNDED BY BEACON
STREET.
E. 12.   Thomas Millard.   [His lot No. 3, of one acre, in the
New Field, with Jane Parker west, William Wilson east, Z. Bos-
worth, John Ruggles, and E. Dennis north, south bound blank. —
W.H.W.]
E. 13.   William Wilson.   [Two and a half acres in  the New
Field, with 11. Parker east, J. Ruggles west, Z. Bosworth south,
AV. Hudson, Sr., north. —W.H.W.
J
E. 14.   Richard Parker.   [Lot unrecorded. —W.H.W.]
E. 15.   J(jhn  Ruggles.   [Lot unrecorded,  but mentioned  in
other bounds.—W.H.W.]
E. 16.   Edmund Dennis.   [His lot No. 2, half an acre in the
New Field,  with J. Ruggles east,  Z. Bosworth west, T. Millard
south, T. Clarke north. —W.H.W.]
E. 17.   Zaccheus Bosworth.   [Probably his  lot  No. 3,  of an
acre and a half, in the  New Field, with T. Millard south, James
Johnson north, E. Dennis east, and R. Sherman west. —AV.H.W.]
E. 18.   Richard  Sherman.   [Lot  unrecorded,  but  see  Bos-
worth's west liound in last paragrnpli. —W.H.W.]
E. ig.   William  Bcamsiey.   [Lot unrecorded,  but  cited  in
Jane Parker's bounds, E. 9. —W.H.W.]
E. 20.  Robert Wing.  [His lot No. 2, half an acre, with the River
west, Mr. Pepys south, J. Everill and      east. —W.H.W.]
E. 21.   Francis Lyle.   [His lot  No. 2, of half an acre, in the
New Field, no bounds given. —AV.H.W.]
E. 22.   James Johnson.   [His lot No. 3, of an acre, in the New
Field, wii;h  Z. Bosworth south, J. Biggs north, F. Lyle west, and
T. Clarke east. —W.H.W.]
LOTS TOUCHING CAMBRIDGE STREET.
E. a.   John Biggs.   [His lot of marsh was on both sides of
Caml)ridge street, —see G. 47.  Gleaner, Article 18, seems to think
that Biggs acquired some upland also. —AV.H.AV.]
E. 23.   Thomas Clarke.   [Lot unrecorded, but cited in E. 22
andE. 24. —W.H.W.]
 - 279 - 
72         City Document No. 46.
—
Part 2.
E. 24.   Thomas Buttolph.   [His lot No. 8, bought ofW. Hud-
son, Sr., 16th, 4 mo., 1G4G, of five acres in the New Field, with J.
Johnson west, R. Cooke east, W. Wilson south, and —Davis, the
apothecary, north.   Note that tliis is also recorded in the Book,
p. 57, with T. Clarke west.   Johnson seems to have bought the
west part of Clarke's lot.   In Gleaner's article No. 20 it is shown
that J. Johnson, having bought Lyle's lot  also, sold, in  1649, to
Buttolph, 3^ acres in Centry field, thus making Buttolph's lot 8^
acres.   Thus enlarged, the Buttolph lot reached from Cambridge
street about 625 feet, to Myrtle street, and from Buttolph street on
the west to Hancock street on the east. —W.H.W.]
E. 25.   Richard Cooke.   [His lot  No. 3,  being in the New
Field a certain parcel with William Hudson, Sr. west {i.e., But-
tolph's), and Valentine Hill west. —W.H.W.]
E. h.   Valentine Hill.   [This is  better  shown as H. 16,  and
thus completes the grantees when the Book of Possessions was
prepared.—W.H.W.J
 - 280 - 
 - 281 - 
Map F,  ok  Xo.  G.
(74)
 - 282 - 
MAP F, OR NO. 6.
LOTS 1  TO 3,  EAST SIDE OF SCHOOL AND MILK STREETS.
F. A.   John Cogan.  His lot is  described in Map E.  It is the
Albion building, corner of Tremout and Beacon streets.
F. 15.     The bnrying-ground, out  of which, in  Andros'  time,
was talcen the lot for the King's Chapel.
F. I.    Thomas Scottow,  house and garden.  His will  is  in
J\^. E. Hist, and Geneal. Reg., Oct., 1856, p. 362.   He sold to the
town, in 1645, the present City Hall lot.   The town built a school-
house upon it,  and Mr. Woodmansy, the teacher, lived in  tlie old
house.  Woodmansybequeathed his " little estate," in 1677, to his
wife Margaret, and his daughters Martha and Bethia.   His will is
in  N. E.  Hist,  and Genenl.  Reg..,  Jan.,  1862, p.  55.   In 1666
Daniel Henchman was employed to assist Woodmansy.  Benjamin
'J'ompson succeeded Woodmans}' in  16()7, acting with Henchman.
Jan. 3, 1671, the celebrated Ezekiel Cheever took the school, and
kept it  until  1703.   An account of Cheever, by Mr. Ilassam, in
N. E. Hist, and Geneal. Reg.., 1879, p. 175, gives various particu-
lars about the school-house while it was in  charge of this master.
Cheever was succeeded by Nathaniel Williams.   Thomas Prince
preached Williams' funeral sermon, which was printed in  N. E.
Hist, and Geueal.  Reg., Oct.,  1854,  p.  368.   Williams died in
1738, and was followed by John Lovell.
Between  the  teacher's  house  and  the  school-house  Richard
Cooke was permitted, in  1652, to  build, paying a ground rent,
which went for the school-master's salary.   In 1703 a new school-
house was built on the spot.   The ground now in  front of  the
City Hall was sold by the  town later, and again repurchased.
Just below this  there stood, in  the provincial times, the dwelling
of Jean Paul Mascarene, a Huguenot, who went to Nova Scotia
in 1711, became Governor there ;    but died in Boston, in 1760.   A
little further down the street was the "Cromwell's Head Tavern,"
a somewhat famous resort  in  the  provincial  period ;      and here
Washington lodged when he came to Boston, in 1756.  Just above
this inn lived the merchant and wit, Joseph Green.
F. c.   Richard Hutchinson.  The corner of his lot  on School
street shows here, and is fully described as G. 62.
F. 2.   Governor Winthrop's.   His house stood nearly opposite
the foot of School street.   His " green" is  now occupied by the
Old South Church.  Before his death he deeded the property to his
son Stephen, reserving right of occupancy of one-half for his own
and his wife's life.    The property came  into  the  possession of
John Norton, the minister of the First Church, whose will is given
in N. E. Hist, atid Geneal. Reg., October,  1857, p. 342; and his
widow gave it to the Third Church, and upon it their first edifice
 - 283 - 
76         City Docibient No. 46. —Part 2.
was built,  in  1670, —a wooden structure, wliich gave place, in
1729, to the present building.
F. 3.   Athertou  Hough, house.   This  is  the  point at which
James Boutineau, who married a sister  of Peter Faneuil, in  the
provincial period, had his mansion.   [This is his lot No. 2, street
south. Common west, Mr. Hibbins east,  R, Sherman north. —
W.H.W.]
LOTS 4  TO 13,  SOUTH-WEST SIDE OF MILK STEEET, FROM
WASHINGTON STREET DOWN THE HILL.
F. 4.   Robert Re3'nolds, shoemaker, house and garden.  His
will, 1G58, is in N. E. Hist, and Geneal. Ee(/., April, 1855, p. 137 ;
gives his  house and orchard, after his wife's decease, to his son
Nathaniel, wlio removed to Bristol, R.I.   A family distinguished
in the medical profession represents the blood in  Boston to-day.
[He had the  High street west, and the  Fort street  north. —
W.H.W.]
F. 5.   John Stevenson, house and garden.  His widow married
William Blackstone, and the  lot  passed, in  1646, to Abraham
Page ;    and then, same year, to John Hansett, of Roxbury ;    but
the spot  got  its  chief glory sixty years  later,  when Benjamin
Franklin was born here.
F. 6.   Nathaniel Bishop, house and garden.   A lane was laid
out (Oct.  15,1645; March 23,  1646)  west of this  lot, running
through to Summer street, nearly the present Hawley street, and
known early as Bishop's alle}-.
[He had a deep lot,  having J.  Stevenson, R.  Waite, and E.
Fletcher west.   W. Hudson, 8r., was on his south. —W.H-W.]
F. 7.   Nicholas Parker.   [House and garden, with the  street
north, R. Scott south,  N. Bishop west, James Penn east. —W.
H.W.]
F. 8.   James Penn.  [House and garden, with the street north,
R. Parker west, J.  Kenrick east ;    no south bound ;   but Robert
Scott and Thomas Oliver were on his south, as their  lots  (F. 37,
and F. 36) show. —W.H.W.]
F. 9.   John Kendrick.   [House and garden,  with the  street
north,  J.  Penn west,  W. Dinsdale east;  no southbound; but
clearly it was T. Oliver's garden.   See his lot F. 36. —W.H.AY.]
F. 10.   William Dinsdale.   [House and garden, with the street
north, R. Scott south, J. Leverett west, R. Rice east.   This west
bound is not explained. —W.H.W.]
F. II.   Robert Rice.   [House and garden,  with  the  street
north,  Capt.  Keayne south, W. Dinsdale west, W. Pell east. —
W.H.W.]
F. 12.   William  Pell.   [House and  garden, with  the  street
north, Capt Keayne south, R. Rice west,  and J.  Spoore east. —
W.H.W.]
F. 13.   John Spoore.   [His lot No. 2, of an acre and a half,
with the street north, R. Turner south, R. Fairbanks east, Capt-
R. Keayne and W. Pell  west.   See also G. 74,  which probably
joined this on the north. —W.H.W.]
 - 284 - 
Appendix.                   77
LOTS U TO 18,  AROUND FORT HILL AND THE SHORE, NORTH
TO SUMMER STREET.
F. 14.   Richard Fairbanks.   [His lot No. 4, on the Fort field,
with J.  Spoorc west, Mr. Hibbens north-east, R.  Turner south-
west, R. Gridley south-east.  (Mr. Hibbens' lot is shown in G. 75.)
The street  (Fort street,  now Milk street)  ran through Spoore's
two lots, and seems to have ended against Fairbanks or the Creek.
—W.H.W.]  Richard Fairbanks' pasture, 5 a.   It was this past-
ure, east of the present Pearl street, that Theodore Atkinson, not
long after 1700, sold to Edward Gra}-, who built ropewalks on it
in  1712.   They are seen in  Bonner's map in  1722.   In  1732 a
lane running parallel to the building was called Hutchinson street,
changed in 1800 to Pearl.   A son, John Gray, succeeded to the
business.   Gleaner Articles, No. 16, traces  the history'  of these
ropewalk lots.
F. 15.   Richard Gridley.   [Another lot, with R. Turnernorth-
west, J.  Harrison south-west, the  Bay south-east, and the Fort
northeast. —W.H.W.]  Richard Gridley's pasture.   It  was in
this pasture, wliich,  in  Bonner's map, is  intersected by Gibbs's
lane, with Gibbs's wharf on the shore just north of it, that Colonel
Robert Gibbs built his famous house, which surprised the colonial
town by its costliness.   His wife Elizabeth survived him.    '
F. 16.   William Davies,  Sr.   His lot No. 2, of a house and
three quarters of an acre, with the water south-east, R. Gridley
south-west, north-west and north-east. —W.H.W.]
F. 17.   John Harrison,  house.   He established on  this  lot
the first rope-walk, about 1G41.   {Gleaner Articles, No. 16.)
F. 18.   Richard Gridley,  captain of militia,  house and land.
It was on this ground, after Purchase street, then called  Belcher's
Lane, was laid out, that Captain Samuel Adams, the father of the
patriot, lived;  and here, in  1722, the latter was born, in a fine,
commanding house overlooking the  harbor.   Adjoining was his
malt-house and other buildings.   Adams, the father, had bought
the lot in 1712, and a wharf on the water-front was long known by
his  name.  East of this, on a line of the present Gridley street,
Captain John Bonner lived.
LOTS 19 TO 22,  BOUNDED BY SUMMER AND SOUTH STREETS
AND THE SOUTH COVE.
F. 19.   Nicholas Baxter.   [House and lot, with the street or
lane north and west, E. Brown and the Bay east, M. Irons south.
—W.H.W.]
F. 20.   Edward Brown.  [House and garden, with N. Baxter
noi'th and west, the Bay east, M. Irons south. —W.H.W.]
F. 21.   Matthew lyons or Irons.  [House and lot, with the lane
west, the Bav east, N, Baxter and E. Brown north, W. Leatherland
south.—W.H.W.]
F. 22.   William Leatherland.   [House and lot, with the lane
west, the Bay east, M. Irons north, and A. Porter and the Cove
 - 285 - 
I
78         City Document No. 46. —Part 2.
south.   The lane which was the west bound of these three lots,
F. 19, 21 and 22, is South street.   Abel Porter is not in the Book ;
but Winsor seems to give him the extreme end, or Windmill Point.
—VV.H.W.]
LOTS 23  TO 28,  SOUTH SIDE OF SUMMER STREET, WEST
OF SOUTH STREET.
F. 23.   William Teft.  [House and lot, with the Cove south, the
lane east, the Mill street north, T. Munt and (Anne) Tuttle west.
—W.H.W.]  William Teft was enjoined, in 1644, not to " plant
it with Indian corn, nor anything that may hinder the wind-mill."
The  records  show  that  William  Teffe,  tailor,  agreed to buy
Jacob AVilson's house and ground in 1G38; and that in 1039-40
he bought a house and ^ acre of Edward Gibbons, which the latter
had bought of William Mauer, and he of William Hudson, Sr., in
1639.
F. 24.   Thomas Munt.  [House and lot, with W. Teft east and
north,  the  Cove south,  J.  Negoos west. —"W.H.W.]  Thomas
Munt had permission in 1635 to fence in a piece of marsh befoi-e
his house for the making of brick.   (See N. E. Hist, and Genecd.
Beg., April, 1862, p. 162.)
F. 25.  Jonathan Negoos.  [House and lot, with the Cove south,
W. Teft north, T. Munt east, T. Foster west. —W.H.AV.]
F. 26.   Thomas Foster.   [House and lot, with the Cove south,
Mrs. Tuttle north, J. Negoos east, and 11.  Woodhouse west.
F. 27.   Richard Tuttle, and afterward his widow, had a wind-
mill  here,  near the present Church-Green estate.   In 1642 per-
mission was given to remove the wind-mill into the fort ;     but the
lot had a wind-mill on it  when it  subsequently passed to E<lward
Holyoke, Richard Woodward, and then to William Aspinwall.   It
was often spoken of as the •' South Wind-mill."  After that i)ortion
of Bedford street (called Blind lane) which connects with Summer
street  was cut through, the lot  formed bj' the junction seems to
have come into the possession of the town, by which it was granted,
in  1715, to a new society, which became the New South Church.
The edifice then built stood through the Provincial period, and was
replaced  in  1814  by the  structure which the present generation
remember as upon the spot before 1868.   It is not explained vvhy
the site was called " Church Green" befoi-e it was contemplated to
use it for church purposes.   {Sewall Papers, iii.,  61.)
LOTS 28 TO 40, NORTH SIDE OF SUMMER STREET FROM HIGH
STREET TO HAWLEY STREET, INCLUDING INTERIOR LOTS
TOWARD MILK STREET.
F. 28.   Benjamin Gillam.   [House and lot,  with W. Deming
west and north, R. Turner's pasture east, and the lane south-east.
This was  the north corner of Summer and High streets. —W.H.
W.] Gillam's inventory, in 1670, speaks of his estate on the shore
as comprising a dwelling-house, shed, and wash-house, valued at
 - 286 - 
Appendix.                   79
£360.  It  includes also  part of a  ship  on the  stocks,  £398,
—
probably building at this point.   (See hislamily connections in N.
E. Hist, and Genecd. Reg., July, 18G5, p. 254.)  Tlie present High
street is  called in  1G42 the highway, alreadj' begun from widow
Tuthill's  windmill to the Fort, twenty foot  broad.
F. 29.   RobertTurner'spasture ;  sold six acres in 1G52 to Richard
Fairbanks.  Long Lane (Federal Street) was later cut through the
westerly part of this lot, and upon it  the meeting-house was built
in 1744, in which Channing subsequently ministered.
F. 30.   William Deming.  [House and lot, with the lane south-
east, li.  GiUani east, M. Engles west, and Capt. Keayne north.
—
W.H.W.]
F. 31.   Captain  Robert  Keayne, garden.   This  lot   fell   to
Keayne's grand-daughter Anne and her husband, Cai)tain Nicholas
Paige, and from them passed to Daniel Johonnot in 171!i,  then
bounding east, on Long Lane, while on its easterly bounds stood
Mr. Johonnot's distillery and store-houses.   In 1793 it was sold to
the trustees of the Boston Theatre ;  and on one part of it,  separated
from the theatre  lot  by Franklin street,  the Catholics, in  1803,
erected  their  first church.   {N. E. Hist, and Geneal. lieg.,  Oct.
1852, p. 358.)
[This great lot is  his lot  No.  2, called  a garden,  with John
Spoore east,  W. Pell  and R.  Rice  north,  no other bounds.
—
W.H.W.]
F. 32.   Robert Scott.   [Apparently his lot  No. 2,  with Capt.
Robert Keayne east,  T. Oliver west,  John AVebb north, though
this last is not clear. —W.H.W.]
F. 33.   Maudit Engles.   [House and lot,  with the Mill street
south, Mr. Scott north, W. Deming east, and B. Negoos west. —
W.ILW.]
F. 34.   Benjamin Negoos. .     [House and lot, with  Mill street
south,  Mr. Oliver  north,  M. Engles  east,  G.  Wa^ite  west. —
W.H.W.]
F. 35.   Gamaliel Waite.  [House and lot, with the Mill street
south,  T.  Oliver  north,  B.  Negoos  east,  J.  Palmer west.
—
W.H.W.]
F. 36.   Thomas Oliver.   [His lot No. 3, a garden, with Robert
Scott east and west,  J. Penn and J.  Kenrick north,  no south
bound,  but Negoos and Waite  were  south  by  their  lines. —
W.H.W.]
F. 37.   Robert Scott.   [His lot No. 4, a garden, with W. Hud-
son, Sr., west, N. Parkerand J. Penn north, Jacob Leagereast, and
Edward Bates south.   These last two bounds are hard to explain.
—W.H.W.]
F. 38.   John Palmer, Sr.   [House and garden,  with the Mill
street south, G. Waite east, R. Scott and Wm. Hudson, Jr., north,
A.Richardson west. —W.H.W.]  Not far from this s[)ot stood,
in  the  provincial  days, the  elegant mansion of the younger Sir
William Pepperrell, which was sold under the confiscation act in
1779.   (Sabine, American Loyalists, ii,  170.)
F. 39.   Amos Richardson.  [House and garden, with the street
south, J. Palmer, Sr., east, W. Hudson and R. Scott north, and J.
 - 287 - 
80        City Document No. 46. —Part 2.
Palmer, Jr., J. Marshall and R. Hogg west. —W.H.W.]  James
Stokes sold to George Bromer ;    he, in 1G42, to Amos Richardson,
a  tailor.   Here, in  the  next  century, after  Bishop's Alley  (Ihe
modern Hawley street) was run through, on the upper corner of it
stood the old Seven Star Inn, giving its name for a while to the
street; and upon the same spot, in 1734, the first edifice of Trinity
Church wns erected, whicli stood till  1828.   This land was bought
for the church of William Speakman.
F. 40.   William Hudson, Sr., garden.   Sewall, in 1794, records
the burial of a Quaker in what seems this lot, as the Quakers did
not have till  1701)  any cemetery of their own.   At the time of
the burial it  was called Brightman's pasture and orchard.  {Setvall
Papers, ii., 112, and note.)
LOTS 41 TO 45, SOUTH SIDE OF SUMMER STREET, CONTINUED.
F. 41.   George Griggs, house; allowed to sell  in  1638, "for
his redeeming out of their debts," to Mr. Tuttill of Ipswich, and
Mr. Tuttill of Charlestown.  In his will, in 1G55, he spoke of him-
self as sick in  bodv.   It  is  printed in N. E. Hist, and Geneal.
Req., Oct., 1855, p. 343.
F. 42.   William Blantaine.   William Davies, lock  and gun-
smith ;    granted 1638; sold to William Blantaine in  1646.   The
portion of this lot  next the pond lot, belonged, early in the pro-
vincial time, to Benjamin Church, the father of the Revolutionary
traitor,  who sold it,  in  1742, to Robert Thompson ;    and he,  in
1764, to John Rowe, who built upon it a mansion, afterwards the
residence  of  Judge Prescott,  and which is  portrayed in  George
Ticknor's Life of William H. Prescott.   In 1845 it passed, by pur-
chase, to the  Church of the Saviour, and the freestone structure
was built upon it, which has been taken carefully down, and recon-
structed on Newburv street.   (Shurtleff, Descrijjtiun  of Busto)i,
409.)
[As Davies' lot  when sold to Blantaine had Blantaine south,
and Waite, F. 45, Ilollich, F. 44, and Bell, F. 43,  had Blantaine
south,  evidently  he owned two lots, one perhaps including the
pond. —W.H.W.]
F. 43.   Thomas Bell, house and garden.  He died 1655, and
his son Thomas conveyed it to John Marj'on in 1668.
F. 44.   Richard HoUick, Hollidge, or Ilollinghead, house and
land.   In 1680 Hollick and his wife Ann, in their old age, sold the
lot (reserving the use of the house for their lives) to Henry Alline
and Robert Sanderson, deacons of the First Church ;   but not until
1808 did that church erect, on an inner part of this  lot,  their late
meeting-house on Chauncy place.   Gleaner said, in 1855, that this
was probably the only lot  in  Boston held under a direct convey-
ance from the first possessor.
F. 45.   Gamaliel Waite, garden.  This lot was the site  of tlie
fine  old mansion of the  provincial time, which Leonard VassoU
built, now marked by the building of C.  F.  Ilovey & Co.   Mr.
T. C. Amory (iV. E. Hist, and Geneal. Beg., Jan., 1871, p. 38;
see also Jan., 1863, p. 59) has traced the descent of the property.
 - 288 - 
Appendix.                   81
and described the mansion.  For the Vassall famil}',  see N. E.
Hist, and Geneal. Reg., Jan., 1863, and Ileraldic Journal, ii.,  17.
Vassall bought it in 1727 of Simeon Stoddard ;   and after his deatli,
in 1737, it passed b}- sale  to Thomas Hubbard, who lived in  the
house till his death, in 1773.   He had been Treasurer of Harvard
College, and his portrait by Copley now hangs in Memorial Hall.
LOTS 46 AND 47, NEXT TO KINGSTON STREET EAST.
F. 46.   Richard Woodbouse.  [House and lot, with T. Foster
east, J. Vyall west, G. Griggs north, and the Cove south. —W.
H.W.]
F. 47.   John Viall,  vintner ;      conveyed by him and his  wife
Mary, about 1G44, to William Costin, carpenter; he to Edward
Cowell, " cordwinder " ;     and he and his  wife Sarah in  1071, to
Rev. James Allen, of the First Church, who was reputed to be
" very rich,"  and, perhaps, having a speculative turn, he sold  it
the next year.
[The description is, house and garden of half an acre, with R.
"Woodhouse east, G. Griggs north, the marsh and Cove south, and
the Iiighway w-est.   This highway was afterwards Short street, now
Kingston street. —W.H.W!]
F. 48.   The Pond, "the town's watering-place."   This pond
had become so much of a nuisance in the provincial days, that in
1739 tiie question of filling it up was mooted, and in 1753 the lot
containing it was sold by the town to  David Wheeler, then con-
taining about one-ninth of an acre.   He died in  1770, and his
wife, who held it, died in 1773.
[Pond street became Bedford street in 1820. —W.H.W.]
LOTS 49 TO 63,  ON THE EAST SIDE OF WASHINGTON STREET,
FROM MILK STREET TO BEDFORD STREET.
F. 49.   Edward Fletcher, house ;    sold the northern part in  1046
to William Hailstone, a tailor, from Taunton ;    he to Richard Lip-
pincott, barber.   It was seemingly on this lot that Daniel Jolion-
not, the Huguenot distiller, dwelt in, his latter years.  (iV. E. Hist.
a)i'l  Genc.ul. Reg., October, 1852, p. 359.)
F. 50.   Richard Waite, tailor, house and garden.   An account
of him and his famil}- is given in  N. E. Hist, and Geneal. Reg.,
1877, p. 422.
F. 51.   Charity White.  [House and small ,yard, with Francis
East south and east, R. Waite north, the street west. —W.II.W.]
F. 52.   Francis East.   [House and garden, with the street east
(error  for  west). Charity White and Richard Waite north, W.
Hudson east, N. Eaton south. —W.H.AV.]
F. 53.   Nathaniel Eaton.   [House and garden, with F. East
north. W. Hudson, Sr., east, the street west, and R. Hogg south. —
AV.II.W.]
F. 54.   Richard Hogg.  [House and garden, with A. Richard-
son and W. Hudson east, N. Eaton north, the street west, and J.
 - 289 - 
82        City Document No. 46.
—
Part 2.
Marshall south. —W.H.W.]  Ricliard Hogg sold in 1G45 to John
Lake, and he to Thomas AVibonie in 1648, whose will, 1C=5G, is in
2V. E. Hist, and Geneal. Reg., July, 1852, p. 2^9.
F. 55.   John Marshall.   [House and garden, with the street
west, A. Richardson east, R. Hogg north, IS. Woodward, 8r., south.
—W.H.W.]
F. 56.   Nathaniel Woodward, the elder.   [House and garden,
with tiie Mill lane south, the high street west, J. Marshall north,
J. Palmer, Jr., east.  This was, of course, Ihe north-cast corner of
Summer and Washington streets. —W.II.AV.]
F. 57.   John Palmer, Jr.  [House and yard, with the Mill street
south, J. Marshall north, N. Woodward, Sr., west, andA. Richard-
son east. —W.H.W.]
F. 58.   Elizabeth Purton, a widow as  early as  1G33, whose
house, in 1051, seems to have been leased by Robert INIorse to James
Oliver.   She made her mark to  her will,  dated 1G50,  which is
printed in  the N. E. Hist, and Geneal. Jleg., July, 1853, p. 233.
On this site, in tlie next century, ThomasEnglish lived in a sightly
mansion-house.   [Her lot is not in the Book, but is named, in the
next lot, F. 59. —W.H.W.]
F. 59.   Job Judkins.  [House and garden, with the street west,
Elizabeth  Purton north,  R. Hull south,  and G. Waile cast. —
W.II.W.]
F. 60.   Robert Hull, the  blacksmith, house and garden.   His
will  is  in  N. E. Hist, and Geneal. Beg., Oct., 1861, p. 322.   It
was at this point that the printiug-offlcc stood, in 1704, where the
first  Boston newspaper, tlie  News-Letter, was printed.   [It was
here, apparently, that Samuel Sewall,  Avho married John Hull's
only child (grand-daughter of Robert), lived for many years, and
wrote many pages of his diary. —W.H.W.]
F. 61.   John Ilurd, tailor,  house and garden ;     mortgaged to
Governor Dudley for £23 in 1649.   It was granted to Hurd by
John Leverett, in consideration of a garden granted Leverett, in
the  New Field.   For Hurd's descendants,  see  N. E. Hist, and
Geneal. Beg., April, 1865. p. 123.
F. 62.   William  Blantaine.   [House  and garden,  with  the
street  west,  the  watering-place  west,  J.  Hurd north,  and T.
Wheeler south. —W.H.W.]
F. 63.   Tliomas Wheeler.   [Mouse and garden, with the High
street west, the lane south, the watering-place east, and W. Blan-
taine north.  This was the north-east corner of Bedford and Wash-
ington  streets.   Wheeler's will,  of 1654, is  in N. E. Hist,  and
Geneal. Beg., July,  1851, p.  305.   His descendants seemed to
have remained  here,  and Wheeler's Pond is  mentioned  several
times in Sewall's Diary.   See ante, F. 48. —W.H.W.]
LOTS C4  TO 73,  WEST SIDE OF WASHIXGTON STREET, FROM
SCHOOL STREET TO WEST STREET.
F. 64.   Atherton Hough, house and garden.   It  was well up
School-street lot  that the  little  French church was built,  about
1714.   They had bought the lot of James Meers, hatter, ten years
 - 290 - 
Appendix.                   83
earlier.   Next door to them, iu 1747, Richard Cranch, card-maker,
had his shop, —the fatlier of Jiulge Cranch.
F. 65.   Francis Lyle, honse and garden.  Walter Rlackborne,
had  his  lot,  which  Elizabeth  (his  widow?)  sold,  in  1(;41,   to
P'rancis  Lvle,  the barber, who nnited the service of a surgeon,
after tiie iashion of his day, and in  this  capacity served later iu
the  Parliamentary  army in  Eughmd.  Henry Bridgham owned
part of the lot,  which he sold,  in  1G4S, to Richard Tapping and
John Spoore.
F. 66.   Thomas Millard, house and garden.   After INIillard's
death this  estate  passed to Colonel Samuel Shrimpton, in 1G72,
who sold it,  in 1G7G, to Peter Sergeant, who built upon the lot the
famous house, later to be known as the '' Province House," when
it was bought, in  1713, to be made the  royal governor's official
residence.   The Indian, which was perched upon the top of the
cupola, was the handiwork of Deacon Shem Drowne, the same who
made the grasshopper vane of Faneiiil Hall.   The further history
of the estate is traced iu Shnrtleff's Description of Boston, o9G.
F. 67.   Thomas Grubb.   [Honse and garden, with T. Millard
north, A. Perry west,  the  High street  east,  and W. Aspiuwall
south. —W.H.W.]
F. 68.   William Aspiuwall.   [Honse and garden, with Richard
and Thomas Grnl)b north, Richard Cooke and Ephraim
Pope south, the High street east, the Common west.   The blank
after  Ricliard is  evidently Fairbanks. —W.H.W.]  Winsor says
tiiat this lot was "• about on the line of Bronitield street, Richard
Fairbanks' garden ;   later owned by William Davis the apothecary.
Fairbanks, however, retained a lot  in  the rear of those on School
street.   William Aspiuwall owned at one time from street to street,
and he sold house, garden, orchard, and close, iu 1G52, to his son-
in-law, John Augier, then making two acres.   Another house and
out-bnildings he sold, in  1G52, to  Sampson Shoare ;     and he to
Theodore Atkinson, who had formerly  been  a servant to  John
Newgate, the  hatter.   Atkinson  sold  to  Edward Rawson, the
Colonial  Secretary.   The street  now known as Bromfield street
was long called Rawson's lane, but became later known as Brom-
fleld's  lane,  after a distinguished merchant of the provincial pe-
riod, —P2dward Bromfield, —who lived on the southerly side, about
half-way up. where later the Bromfield Honse stood.  (This site was
afterwards occupied by the Indian Queen Tavern.)   Mr. Brom-
field had settled in Boston in lG7o, and died iu 1734.   His family
is traced in N. E. Hist, and Geneal. Reg., October, 1871, p. 330."
F. 69.   Ephraim Pope.   [House and garden, with tlie  High
street east,  R.  Cooke west, W. Aspiuwall north,  and E. Dennis
south. —W.H.W.]
F. 70.   P^dmund Dennis.   [House and garden, with E. Pope
north, the street east, R. Cooke and D. Maud west, and E. Jackliu
south. —W.H.\y.]
F. 71.   Pxlmund Jaeklin, a glazier,  house and garden ;     sold,
in IGIG, to  Nicholas Bnsbie, a  worsted weaver.   His will,  IGo?
(N. E. Hist, and Geneal.  Reg.., July,  1854, p. 279), mentions his
new dwelling-house, with garden, which he gives to his wife, and
 - 291 - 
84        City Document No, 46.
—
Part 2.
aftei'  her to his son Abraham.  He divided his books, —" phisicke
bookes" to his son John, and " bookcs of  divinity or history" to
Abraham.
F. 72.   WilUam Townsend.  [Honse and garden, with the street
east, 1). Mand west, E. Jaeklin north, and Jane Parker sontli. —
W.H.W.]
F. 73,   Jane, widowof Richard Pnrkor, lionse and garden ;  and,
intending  to  marry,  slie  deeded  it,   in  1(]4G,  to  lier  children,
Margaret, Jolni,  Thomas, and Noali.   [Her lot bounds with the
street east and soiitli ;   it was therefore the north-west corner lot  of
Washington and Winter streets. —W.H.W.]
LOTS 74 TO82, ALONG TREMONT STREET FROMWINTER STREET
TO SCHOOL STREET, AND DOWN SCHOOL STREET TO THE
CORNER LOT.
F. 74.   Richard Sherman. Granted to Richard Sherman's wife in
1637, when Stephen Kinsley had a honse-plot near by ;   and Sher-
man in 1G47 sold a half acre to Francis Smith, who the same year
deeded two acres, including land bought of Ednnind Jaeklin.  This
cornel"  was later  owned by Captain  Edward Wyllys, and was
bought of his heirs by Colonel Vetch in 1712, who in 1713-14 sold
it  to Captain Tliomas Steel.   {Sewall Papers^ iii.,  10.)   It was
later  owned by Thomas Oxnard, the  progenitor of the famih' of
that name ;    and at  his  death, in  1754, it  was valued at £1,200.
(iV. E. Hist.  (Did Geneul.  lieg.,  1872, p. 4.)   [It  does not seem
to be entered as Sherman's possession in the Book. —W.H.W.]
F. 75,   Daniel Maud the school-master; granted in 1G37 ;    sold
to Edmund Jaeklin in 1043.   Here at a later day was the sliop of
the well-known London coach-maker. Major Adino Paddock, —the
same who |)Ianted, about 17G2, before the Granary burial-ground,
the elms  which not long since were cut dowai.   The name of the
burial-ground was derived from the public granary, which, in 1737,
was built  on the opposite side  of the  street  where Park-street
Churcii now stands.   The keeper of this  granary was for a long
time Francis Willoughby.  This part of Tremont street was called
Long Acre in the provincial times.   On a part of this lot, too, was
built the manufacturing honse which formed the eastcornei- of what
is  now Hamilton place,  and was erected by tiie  Province to en-
courage spinning and kindred occupations.  It disappeared in 180G.
[This lot does not appear in the BocjIc.   Lamb makes three lots of
it,  I know not why. —AV.II.W.]
F. 76.   Richard Cooke, gaiden ;   sold to Edmund Jaeklin, who,
in 1G47, sold to Francis Smith ;     he to Amos Richardson the same
3'ear; and later it was owned by Anthony Stoddard, the rich linen-
draper.
F. 77.   Richard Fairbanks.  [Garden, bounded with W. Aspin-
wali south and east, the Common west, Z. Bosworth, J. Synder-
land, R. Cook, J. Lugg, and A. Perry east. —AV.ILW.]
F. 78.   Zaccheus  Bosworth,  house  and  garden, with  barns,
cow-house,  orchard;  sold  in   1652  to   Thomas  Woodward.
 - 292 - 
Appendix.                   85
Bosworth's will, 1G55, is in iV. E. Hist, and Geneal. Rerj., October,
1851,  p. 443.   On this  lot  there was erected, early in  the  next
century,  the  brick  house which became the  residence of Jacob
"Wendell, a weahhy merchant and prominent citizen of his da}'.
F. 79.   John Synderland.   [Mouse and garden, with  Z. Bos-
worth west, the  street  north, R. Fairbanks south, and R. Cooke
east. —W.II.W.]
F. 80.   Richard Cooke, house and garden.   Here also lived his
son. Dr. Elisha Cooke, a citizen  wlio figured  largely in the Inter-
Charter period.   It was in this house that Governor Burnet lived
while the Province House was making ready.
F. 81.   John Lugo-.  [House and garden, with the street north,
R. Fairl)anks south. R. Cooke west, and A. Perry east.—W.H.W.]
F. 82.   Arthur Perry.   [House, yard  and  garden,  with  the
street north,  R. Fairbanks south, J. Lugg west, and Mr. Haugh,
F. Loyall (or Lyle), T. Grubb, and T. Millard east. —W.H.W.]
LOTS 83 TO 93,  IN THE SQUARE ENCLOSED BY WINTER,
WASHINGTON, WEST, AND TREMONT STREETS.
F. 83.   Robert Blott.  [House and garden, with the street east
and north, lAIr.  Flint south, J. Levorett west. —W.II.W.]
F. 84.   Mr.      Flint.   [House and garden, with R.  Blott
north, J. Leverett west, the street east, and A. Harker south.
—
W.H.W.]
F. 85.   Anthony Harker.   [House and garden, with the street
east,  J.Johnson west,  Mr. Flint  north and south. —W.H.W.]
Sold to Isaac Vergoose in 1G59.
F. 86.   Mr. Flint.   [His second lot, a house and garden, with
the street east, G. Burden west, A. Harker north, and T. Clarke
south. —W.H.W.]
F. 87.   Thomas Clarke.   [House and garden, with the street
east.  G. Burden west, Mr. Flint north, and R. Mason south. —
AV.H.W.]
F. 88.   Ralph Mason.  [House and garden, with the street east,
II.  Webb west,  T. Clarke north,  R.  Wing south. —W.II.W.]
Ralph Mason, house and garden ;   mortgaged to Matthew Cradock,
of London, in  1G38, for £17; sold to Thomas Painter.   Painter
had liberty to sell a house to Ephraim Hunt, in 1G50.  Mason made
his mark to his will in 1G72.
F. 89.   Robert Wing.   [House and garden, with the street cast
and south, R. Mason north, H. Webb west. —W.II.W.]  Robert
Wing, house, "both old and new built;" sold  in  1G48 to Thouias
Painter.   Hedied in 1 G51.  (8ee his will in N. E. Hist, and Geneal.
lieg.^ January, 1850, p. 54.)
F. 90.   Henry Webb.  [His lot No. 3, a garden, with the lane
south, G. Burden north, R. Wing and R. Mason east, the Cove west.
This last is an evident error for the Common west. —W.II.W.]
F. gi.   George Burden.   [His lot No. 2, being a garden, near
the Common, wiili  H. Webb south, the Common west, T. Clarke
east, and J. Johnson north. —W.II.W.]
F. 92.   James Johnson, garden.  These lots, on the line of the
present Mason street, were granted,  in  1638, to James Johnson,
 - 293 - 
86         City Document No. 46. —Part 2.
John Davis, George Burden, and Natbaniol Chappell, and were
then called " gardens on the back side of the lots in y'^long street."
They mark the sight of the mansion and grounds of James Swan
of a later day, and, still later, the famous Washington Gardens of
the early part of this centiuy.
F. 93.   John Leverett, who sold the south part in IGG-l to one
Wyard, and he, in  IGGfi, to John Wampus, an Indian.   {Gleaner
Article No. G.)   [As I understand it, Lamb, on his map, has trans-
posed these four lots, making them read from west to east, —Lev-
erett, Johnson, Bnrden, Webb, instead of Webb, Burden, Johnson,
Leverett.   AVinsor agrees with me. —W.ILW.]
LOTS 94,  95,  AND 96,  ON THE WEST SIDE OF WASHINGTON
STREET, FROM WEST STREET TO BOYLSTON STREET.
F. 94.   William  Chamberlain,  house  and garden.   This  lot
Thomas Oliver sold, in  1G45, to Nicholas Shapley.   Oliver's will
is in N. E. Hist, and Geneal. Reg.., October, J  854, p. 3ol.   This
lot seems to have been sold, in 1G47, by Francis Smith, to William
Chamberlin,  assigned  by Chamberlin  to  Smith  again  5th,  11
month, 1G48 ;     and was later  sold to Richard Wilson.  Opposite
the rear of this lot, on the Common, now the line of Mason street,
the town built, in  1717 (it is shown on Bonner's ma[)), the South
Writing School.   It  is  described then as "adjoining to Cornell's
lot, over against Mr. Wainwright's."
F. 95.   Richard Carter, house and garden.   William Hudson,
Jr., sold to Richard Carter, a carpenter, in lGo9.   This lot nearly
corresponds to the site  of the Lamb Tavern, which stood here
before the middle of the last century.   Drake sa3's  that Colonel
Doty was the  host  in  17G0.   Adjoining it  on the  north was
the  Lion Tavern.   [In  the  Book it  is  bounded by Mr. Oliver
north, he being the owner before Chamberlain, as noted in  F. 94.
—W.H.W.]
F. 96.   Jacob Leger.   [House and garden, with the street east,
the  Common west,  R.  Carter  north,  Mr.  Coleborne  south. —
W^H.W^]
F. d.   [William Coleborne's lot was next south of Leger's, and
was the corner of Boylston and Washington streets.   It is  de-
scribed in Map C. —W.II.W.]
LOTS 97 TO 103,  EAST SIDE OF W^ASHINGTON STREET, FROM
BEDFORD STREET TO ESSEX STREET.
F. 97.   Robert Woodward, house and garden ;   granted in 1637.
Papers relating to his estate arc in N. E. Hist, and Geneal. Reg.,
January, 1859, p. 10.   Bedford street was laid out in 1G44.   [His
lot  has the High street west, the lane  north, J. Leger south, T.
Buttolph east. —W.II.W\]
F. 98.   Jacob Leger.   [His lot  No. 2, a  house and garden,
with the street west, R. AYoodward north, T. Buttolph east, and
T. Fowle south. —W.II.W.]
F. 99.   Thomas Fowle, house  and garden.   He removed to
•Braintree.   In 1650, house and orchard sold by John Cuddington
 - 294 - 
Appendix.                   87
to William Ilollowav.   [He had Leger north, Sinct south, But-
lolpheast. —W.II.W.]
F. lOO.   AValter  .Siiiet.    [House aiul  garden, ^vith  the  street
west, T. Buttolph and M. Reading east,  J. Leger north, and J.
Odlin  soutli.    Possibly  this   should  be  T. "FowIc  north.
—
W.II.W.]
F. loi.   John Odlin, house and garden, with the street west,
M. Reading east,          Cole south, W. Sinet north. —W.II.W.]
F. 102.          Cole, house and garden ;    later owned b^y John
Cuddington, John Bateman, and John Odlin, in 1G50.
F. 103.   Griflith Bowen, house and garden.   Here, within the
hou^c-yard, stood tlie '"Liberty Tree," wliieh is  said to have been
planted in 1G4G, and became famous in the Stamp-Act times, and
was cut down in spite by the Tories, in 1775.
F. 103*.   [This lot is not placed on tlie  map by an oversight.
On Lamb's map it is marked as lieLl by Miles Reading, but a part
of it belongs to Thomas Buttolph, as shown bv lots F. 97, 98, 99,
and 100.   It was Buttolph's Lot No. 2. being an acre and a half,
first  laid out for garden lots, with the highway south, a common
lot  east, J. Leger, W. Sinet, and  the lane noith, Mr. Fowle and
R. Woodward west.   As Miles Reading onl}- occurs as an abutter
in F. 100 and 101, it  is  impossible to say iiow muc'.i  he owned.
But Buttolph should stand as the main owner here, his lot reach-
ing to Bedford street. —W.II.W.]
LOTS lOi  TO 108,  ON THE SOUTH SIDE OF ESSEX STREET,
FROM WASHINGTON STREET EASTERLY.
F. 104.   Garrett Bijurne.   [House and garden, with the street
west and north, the marsh south, E. Rainsford east. —W.H.W.]
F. 105.   Edward Rainsfurd.   [House  and garden,  with  the
street  north,  the Cove south, G. Bourne west,  D. Offley east.
Rainsford's lane in  1708, from Essex street to Bench street, now
part of Ilari-ison avenue, was near this lot. —W.H.W.]
F. 106.   David  Ofllcy.   ILnise  and garden, with the  street
north,  tlie   Cove  south,  E.  Rainsford  west,  the  lane  cast.
—
W.H.W.]
F. 107.   Owen Rowe.  [House and  garden,  with  the street
north, the lane west, the Cove south, J. Pelton cast. —W.II.W.]
F. 108.  John Pelton.   [House and lot, with the street north,
the Cove south, O. Rowe west, the marsh east. —W.II.W.]
F. 109.   [The Marsh, between Kingston street and the end of
Essex street.   Even on Bonner's map of 1722, after Essex street
had been cut through to Kingston street, there is only one line of
houses on Essex street, with a great open space behind it,  and
"Coal's Garden" making up nearly all  of the  southerly side of
Bedford street.   Exeter street wfts projected, in  1805, across this
lot, witich street became Rowe place in 1825, Rowe street in 1837,
and  Chauncy street  (by absorption)  in  185G.   The later Rowe
place,  on the easterly side,  ended  in  a vacant lot in the I'car of
Garcelon's stable  and the  Kingston-street houses.   When built
upon, a few years ago, it was said to be covered for the first  time
by buildings. —W.H.W.]
 - 295 - 
Map G,  or  No.  7.
(88)
 - 296 - 
MAP G, OR NO. 7.
LOTS EAST OF HANOVER STREET AND NORTH OF THE
COVE AND MILL CREEK; NOS. 1  TO 10.
G. I.   Sampson Shore.   [House and garden, with M. Chaffie
north-east, John Hill south-west, the street north-west, the Cove
south-east. —W.H.W.]
G. 2.   John Hill.   [His second lot being a small lot of quarter
of an acre,  with S.  Shore north-east, J. Milom south-west, the
street north-west, the Cove south-east. —W.H.W.]
G. 3.   David Sellick.   [B}- Book of Possessions, it  seems that
14th, 7 mo., 1647, Sellick bought of Edward AVells a lot, with S.
Shore north-east, J. Hill's garden north-west, J. Milom south-west,
the Cove south-east.   It must be here, though not on Lamb's map.
—W.H.W.
]
G. 4.   John Mylom, cooper, house and garden ;     sold to John
Phillips, biscuit-maker, in 1048.   It was upon this  lot that one of
the oldest buildings in Boston, half way up Cross street, existed
to our day.  Phillips, who had come from Dorchester, became a
deacon of the Second Church in 1650, added to his estate adjacent
lands, and built the stone house ;    which, when it was torn down in
1804, was considered the oldest building in Boston.  It has been
described by Mr. Bynner, in Vol. I. of Memorial History ofBoston.
Phillips died in 1682.   Shurtleff, Description ofBoston^ p. 667, has
traced its  history to our day.   Phillips, before he died, sold the
part of his lot next the water-side to Captain Christopher Clarke.
G. 5.   William Werdall.   [House and garden, with J.  Milom
south-west (error, evidently for south-east), J. Hill north-east, the
street north-west, the highwa}- south-west.   This south-west high-
way was Cross street, but Milom'.^ bound is on Valentine Hill ;    an
example of how little  precision is shown in  these descriptions. —
W.H.W.]  Winsor writes of this lane, as follows :  —"This lane
was laid out in 1636, from the water-side '  up the balke or meare
that goes up from the end of John Mylom's house, next William
Aspinwall's ground, and to goe along to the Mylne Cove, a rod and
a halle broade.'   M3lom was allowed, in  1647, to wharf before
the eastern end of it.    At the beginning of the next century it was
called Coney's Lane.  Sewall Papers, ii.,  211."
G. 6.   Valentine Hill, according to Winsor, had five  lots here,
thus described :  —"a. Valentine Hill.   h.  Valentine Hill :     sold to
Barnabas Fawer, in  1646, who was to maintain a cart-wa}' l)y the
wharf before his door, and whose will,  1654, is in N. E. Hist, and
Geneal.  Reg., July,  1851,  p.  305.   c.  Valentine Hill;  sold to
 - 297 - 
90         City Document No. 46. —Part 2.
James Blattock in  1G4G, -o-hose  will,  IGGG, is  in  N. E. Hist, and
Geveal. Jieg., Oct.,  18G1, p.  325.   David I'hippen}- had a house
and lot  in  this  neighborhood.  See his  will  in  N. E. IlUt. and
Geneal. llcg., July, 1853, p. 233.   [Phippcny's lot  (iiook, p. 31)
bounded suuth-wcst on W. Tyng, and T\i)jj,'s  lot  no. 2  bounds
ou  Phippeny. —W.II.W.]   d.  Valentine  Hill;  sold  to  Arthur
Perry,   e.  Valentine  Hill;  sold  to  Richard  Straine,  in  1G48
;
then passed to Paul Allistre, with a wharf in front ;    then to Robert
iS'annej',  in  1650.   His will, 1G63, is printed in iV^.  E.  Hist,  and
Geneal.  Reg., April,  1858,  p.  155.   Near the  bridge  over the
creek. Hill sold, in 1G51, a lot to William Aubrey, '  for the use of
the  undertakers of the  iron works in  New England.'  A lane
which  later  passed  thiough  this  lot  and  the  present  North
Centre street was called  Padd^^'s  Lane, from  Ctiptain  William
Paddy, a citizen of prominence, who lived upon it,  and died in
1G58.   His will  is  in  N. E. Hist, and Genml. licg.,  Oct.,  1854,
p. 355 ;    also see 1877, p. 321."
G. 7.   John Oliver.   [House and garden, of about half an acre,
with V. Hill north-east and south-east, the street north-west, John
Pierce and Jolui Knight south-west. —W.H.W.]
G. 8.   John Knight.
G. g.   John Pierce.   [No possessions recorded, but the exist-
ence of the lots is necessitated by G. 7 and G. 10..—W.H.W.]
G. 10.   Thomas Marshall.   [House and garden of about half
an acre, with the marsh south-east, ,Iohn  Peirce or John Knight
north-east, the street north-west and south-west.   Also 8th, G mo.
1G48, Marshall bought of John Milom, land near the water-mill
with  Milom south-east,  30  feet,  Marshall  south-west  76  feet,
the  Mill  Creek  north-east,  74  feet,   the  highway  north-west
44 feet.   From all which it appears that Marshall owned both sides
of the Mill creek and cove up to the highway ;   but the exact boun-
daries are hard to trace. —W.II.W.]
AVinsor adds :     " Joshua Scottow was allowed, in  1651, to wharf
at the north-east end of the mill bridge.   He had bought the marsh
at that time of James Nash, of Weymouth, to whom John JMylom
had sold it."
Winsor places the following lots in this square with Union street
west, and the Mill creek through its centre :  —
a.  John Mylom ;     sold  to  Thomas Marshall,  1648.   b.  John
Mylom, h. ;    sold in part in 1650 to Robert Nash, the butcher,   c.
John Mylom ;     sold to Governor Leverett.   d.  Lewis Kidb}', fish-
erman, 1G39 ;    granted house lot  on the marsh next to John Lowe.
e.  John Lowe, upland, surrounded by marsh ;    called a wheelwright,
when it was granted to him in  1636-37.  /.  Marsh held in com-
monage, part of which was granted in  1646 to John Mylom, who
sold it to James Hawkins in 1648.
Thomas Marshall  offered  to  the town in  1652 a highway to
shorten the wa}' to the bridge (G. 11 ) ,  but withdrew his off"er.   The
present Marshall street, however, would indicate that the short cut
was eventually established.
G II.   The bridge, the draw of which sras  changed from one
to two leaves in  1653, and the bridge was rebuilt in 1659.   The
 - 298 - 
Appendix.                   91
repairs on it are a matter of constant entr^- in  the town records.
In 1G50 it was ordered tliat the spare laud about the bridge should
be wharfed by the  neighbors for  the common lauding of prop-
erty.
[Here also the] " old way" begun, which in  1G49 was laid out,
a rod broad, from the south side of the water mill, along the shoie
to the Mill Hill.
LOTS 12  TO 17,  WEST OF HANOVER STREET.
G. 12.   Thomas Hawkins.  [A quarter  of an  acre  towards
Charlestown, with James Johnson south-west (see H. 1), the Cove
north-west, John Button north-east, and the street south-east.  See
Book, p. 41. —W.H.W.]
G. 13.   John Button.   [Lamb places  William  Cox here,  I
know not wh}'.   This  lot  does not seem to be recorded in  the
Book.  Perhaps it is a reminiscence of Biittolph's lot No. 5, where
Cox means Copp. —W.H.W.]
G. 14.   John Davies, house and garden ;    sold in  1G45 to John
Trotman, and his wife Katherine conveyed it same day to Thomas
Hawkins, who at  a later day kept here, on Hanover street,  the
Star Inn.   (See Shurtlefl',  Description of Boston,  p.  GOG.)   He
mortgaged the propert}' to Governor Bradstreet in 1G50.   From
Hawkins's house went "the old  hie wav over the little  bridge
[near 11] behind the watter mile to the ferr^-  to Charlestown."
One Watters obstructing this old way with a fence in lGr)2, he was
ordered to remove it;  but in 1G50 Hawkins was allowed to fence
in a part of it temporarily*.
G. 15.   Gabriel  Fish.   [House and yard,  with John Davies
south and west, V. Hill north, the street east. —W.H.W.]
G. 16.   Valentine Hill ;     perhaps later John Kinrick's.
G. 17.   This whole triangle is  left without owners on Lamb's
map.  Winsor assigns as follows :   —
a.  Zaccheus  Bosworth, 1.   hereabout.   Also probably in  this
neighborhood, but not easily  placed, the houses and gardens of
Bartholomew Cheever, John Arnold, John Jackson, and a lot of
Robert Hull, the blacksmith.   [But these last two certainly were
in the New field, i.e.  the hill-side along from Beacon to Cambridge
streets, and are so marked by Winsor in his Map F.   JNIore  study
is required for lot 17. —W.H.W.]
h.  John Ruggles, 1 Go7, had house-plot and garden " near the new
mylne."  If the same who was afterwards of Roxbur}', his will,
1657, is  printed in  N. E. Hist,  and Geneal. Beg., Oct., 1858, p.
343.   Just north of this  point, with its  rear upon the cove, the
Baptists built their first meeting-house in 1G79, which was replaced
by a larger one still, of  wood, in 1771.   Still  further round the
cove, on the site of the present Baldwin Place, the Second Baptist
Church built their house in  174G, —a small structure which con-
tinued well into this century.
c.   William Wilson, 2J-  a.
d.  Richard Parker.
 - 299 - 
92         City Document No. 46.
—
Part 2.
LOTS 18  TO 21,  THE WEST SIDE OF THE COVE, EAST OF
UNION STIIEET.
G. i8.   John Lowe.  [House and garden, with the marsh north
and east, the cove south, and Mr. Bellingham west. —W.II.W.]
G. ig.   Richard BeUingham's mar^h, inchiding what came to
him under an order, 1G44, granting him such of the town's marsh
as was undisposed of, " lor the continuance of peace and love, in
consideration of a quiet resignation of all  claim unto the  wast
before his house."  The Governor sold this marsh in equal parts
to Joshua Scottow and Christopher Lawson.  Shurtleff, iJcscriptiou
ofBoston, ch. Ivii., shows how in the southerly pnrt of this marsh,
near the corner of Merchants' Row and North Market street, stood
for many years the well-known Triangular Warehouse.
G. 20.   Henry Symons, house ;   sold to Christopher Lawson ;   and
by him in 1G45 to David Sellick, with wharf and lane before it ;  to
Robert Nanney in 1G46.   This wharf was bought by John Shawe,
the butcher.   [Henry Symons, house and lot, with Mr. Bellingham
north and cast, John Hill west, the cove south. —W.H.W.]
G. 21.   John Hill, house.   Somewhere in this vicinity, in 1G5G,
Thomas Savage built his new house, "between the drawbridge and
the conduit."   On the opposite side  of the present North street
from this lot, on an irregular piece of ground, partly-  reclaimed
from  the  marsh,  and a wooden building,  which was consumed
in  the (ire of 1G79, to be followed  next year l\y the rough -cast
structure,  which, standing to  our day, has been known as the
"Old Feather-Store."   ShurtlefT,  Ihscription  of Boston, p.  G45,
thinks  the  lot  was originally  a  part  of  Symons's  [lot],  who
dying in  1G43, his widow Susannah married, about 1G44,  Isaac
Walker, who conveyed it  to their daughter Susannah, born 1G4G,
who in  1GG8 married Mr. Thomas Stanbury, who built  the old
building, which was taken down in 18G0.   The subsequent history
of the building  is  told by Shurtleff.   [John Hill, house bounded
with H. Symons east, Mr. Bellingham north, the street west, the
Cove south. —W.H.W.]
LOTS 22  TO 27,  BOUNDED BY UNION, ELM, AND HANOVER
STREETS.
G. 22.   James Everill, a shoemaker, house and large lot, em-
bracing nearly the whole front on Hanover street, out of which he
sold lots to various people.   AVilliam Tyng acquired a part on Elm
street;  and along Hanover street,  passing north, were the lots
of Francis Dowse, Evan Thomas, a vintner (sold to James Bill),
William Corser (sold to John Chamberlyn), Robert Porter, John
Stevenson,  and William Hayward.  The corner lot  on Hanover
and Union streets passed to  Henry Maudesley about IGao; and
Shurtleir, Lh'sc. of Bodon. p. G28, has traced the title down, until
it became the famous " Blue Ball," the home of Franklin's father.
It is now cut off by the extension of Washington street.
 - 300 - 
Appendix.                   1)3
G. 23.   Edmund Dennis.   [Apparent!}' his lot No. o.   A small
parcel with James Evcril cast, the lane and street south-west and
north-west.   Winsor agrees in this location, but it is not on Lamb's
map.—W.H.W.]
G. 24.   John Button.   [Three houses and a garden and yard, in
ail about an acie, with J. Everill north-west, the lane south-west,
the Cove south-east, N. Willis north-east. —W.H.W.]  Winsor
writes, " There was in later years some conti'oversy as to whether
the land opposite this lot and the town docks was public property.
See depositions in N. E. Hist, and Geneal. Reg., Jan., 18G4, p. G8."
Winsor, in  Map B, puts these lots  on the east side of the Mill
Creek, instead of the cast side of the lane, now Ehn street.   He
also  puts Willis and Painter with Hanover street west.   Herein
be  differs  from  Lamb, whose  localities  agree  better  with  the
Book. —W.H.W.]
G. 25.   Nicholas Willis.   [House and garden, with J. Everill
•westerly, J.  Button south-west, the street east, T. Painter north-
erly. —W.H.W.]
G. 26.   Thomas Painter.   [House and garden, with N. Willis
south-west, the street east, Geo. Barrell north. —W.H.W.]
G. 27.   George Barrell.   [House and lot not half an acre, with
J. Everill north, T. Painter south, N. Willis west, the street east.
—W.H.W.]
LOTS 28  TO 52,  BOUNDED BY ELM, WASHINGTON,  COURT,
AND HANOVER STREETS.
G. 28.   Thomas Makepeace.  This was perhaps the house John
Underbill surrendered in 1G3D to Thomas Makepeace of Dorches-
ter, whose will,  IGGG, is in N. E. Hist, and Geneal. Eeg., October,
18G1,  p.  323.   It  was on  the  north-east  corner  that  a  well-
known Boston merchant, William Tailer, lived, —the same who
committed suicide July 12, 1G82.   (N. E. Hist, and Geneal. lleg.,
vii.. 5G.)   His wife was Rebecca, a daughter of Israel Stonghton of
Dorchester, and it was with her in  this  house that Andros is sup-
posed to have taken up his abode when he came to Boston in 1G86.
The son, William Tailer of Dorchester, became Lieut.-Governor,
and rented this house to Edward Lyde, who in 1701-2 bought the
propertv.   (fSezcall Papers, i.,  1G3, 202 ;    N. E. Hist, and Geneal.
Beg., July, 18G3,  p. 239 ;    July, 18G4, p. 289.)
G. 29.   Anne, widow of George Ilunne.   [House and garden
with George     on the east and south, T. INiakepeacc west, the
lane  north.   The "George     " is evidently George Bates.
—
W.H.W.]
G. 30.  George Bates.  [House and garden, T. Makepeace west,
A. Hunne north, G. Burden east, W. AV^ilson south. —W.H.W.]
George Bates in  the rear of Anne Hunne.  The will of John
Endicott {N. E. Hist, and Geneal.  Reg., October, 18G2, p. 333),
leaving his  property to  his wife Elizabeth, daughter of Jeremy
Houtchin  (he had no children), mentions his house as " joyning
to George Bates on the west."
 - 301 - 
94         City Document No. 46. —Part 2.
G. 31.   George Burden.
G. 32.   Francis Dowse.
G. 33.   Jeremy Houcliin.   [Of these lots only one is recorded.
Dowse has a house and yard, with the lane east, AV. Tyug west,
G. Burden north, J.  Houcliin  south.   See  Tyng's  lot,  G. 40.
—W.H.W.]
G. 34.   tSarah  Knight.   [House and garden, with J. Houcliin
north, the lane east,  W. Tyng west, and S.  Greames south. —
W.H.W.]
G. 35.   Samuel Greames.  [House and yard, with Sarah Knight
north-west, the lane nortii-en.st, W. Hudson, Jr., south-east, Wm.
Tyng south-west. —W.H.W.]
G. 36.   William  Hudson, jr.    [Evidently the corner of Hud-
son's lane, now Elm street, as he has Greames and the lane north-
east and the street south-east. —W.H.W.]
This was known as the "Castle Tavern," and Hudson and his
wife Anne conveyed it  in 1G74 to John Wing, who in 1G87 " set a
room in his house for a man to show tricks in ;  " and Sewall records,
amusingly, how he went to labor with Wing and convince him of
its  sinfulness, ending his  account: " Sung the 90"" Ps. from the
12"' V.  to  the  end.   Broke up."   (Sewall Pcqiers,  i,   196.)   In
1694 it  is  called the  "George Tavern."  Mr. John T. Hassam
traces  the  subsequent histoiy  of this  estate in N. E. Hist, and
Geneal. Reg., 1879, p. 400.
G. 37.  John Glover, house.  By will, 1653, he left half his house
nearest Mr. Webb's to his wife, and half to  his  son Habakkuk,
with half his tanj^ard adjacent ;   also to this son half his house next
Goodman Hudson's.  Another son, John, who had graduated at
Harvard in 1651, continued to live with the mother.   Becoming a
merchant, he moved to Swansea ;   and, returning to Boston in 1690,
lived  and died (1696) on Summer street,  and hes buried in  the
Granary Burying-ground.   {Glover  Memorials.,  p.  149 ;     Sible_y,
Harvard Gradxiates, p. 297.
)
G. 38.  George Bur'den, a shoemaker, house.  There was a wharf
opposite  his  house in  1641, where he had permission to place a
vessel at the head of it  in which to water his leather.   Burden's
will is  in N. E. Hist, and Geneal. Reg., July, 1854, p.  278 ;     and
see 1880, p. 44, for a note of the descent of this lot.   A wayround
the  north  side  of the  Cove from this  lot to John Lowe's was
laid out definitely in 1642.   When tlie town, in 1649, sold the re-
version till  1726 of the dock to James Everill, on his  paying an
annual £6 16.5.  lOd. "to the school's use," it was then ordered that
all the land at the head of the Cove "round about by John Glover's,
George Burden's,  Hugh Gunnison's,  Captain  William  Tinge's,
William Franklin's,  Robert Nashe's, and eight foot to the' east-
ward of  it  is  highway ;      as alsoe from the eastward  six  of  the
eight foot, and round about l)ye  the corner of Edward Bendall's
brick howse, and so by Samuel Cole's howse, as alsoe to Edward
Ting's wharfe, shall goe a high way of twentyc foote in  breadth."
This head of the dock was the " common landing place" as early
as 1634, when there was a bridge or pier here.
 - 302 - 
Appendix.                   95
t)OCK SQUARE. ABOiri  1732.
This sketch is  based on a,   plan preserved in the City Hall, and
of which a copy made by the late W. G. Brooks is in ihe Cabinet
of tlie  Historical  Society.   Tlie  tigures  stand  for  the  following
names and sites:   1,  Hutchinson;  2,  Billings;  3,  Randall;  4,
Harvard;  5,  Hannas ;      6,  Checkley ;       7,  Jackson;  8,  Hand; 9,
Eawson; 10, Right; 11, W. Coffin;  12, Millar; 13, J. Tyler; 14,
Tyler;  15,  Hancock;  16,  Boyce ;       17,  Pemberton ;      18 Brooks;
19. Pitts;  20, Watch-house ;    21, Jackson ;     22, Abbott; 23, Brom-
field;  24, Hubbard; 25, Small shops; 20, Billings;  27, Platform,
Fish shop ;     28,  Swing Bridge ;     29,  Borland ;     30, Bridgman Hall
and ^Yarehouse ;      31,  Woodmancy's  wharf;  32,  Fayerweather
;
33,  Colman ;     34,  Hutchinson; 35,  Cushing ;     36,  Bronsdon ;     37,
Jeffery;  38,  Palmer's  Wareliouse ;      39, Gill  and  Sewall ;      40,
Green;  41,  Allen;  42,  Bromfield ;       43,  Noyes ;     44,  Boylston
;
45,  Bailey;  46,  Sun  Tavern;  47,  Borman  and  Gibbs ;      48,
Maverick; 49, Edes ;    50, Blake ;     51, Colson.
 - 303 - 
96         City Docu^lent No. 46.
—
Part 2.
Gr. 39.   Hugh Guiiuisou. vintner.   He later removed to Kittery.
lu 1G5U Gunnison's, or GuUison's. house is called The King's Arms,
and the estate included a brew-house, barns, stables, etc. ;     and in
IGol he and his wife Sarah conveyed it,  according to an inventory
printed in X. E. Hist, and Geneal.  Bey.. 1880, p. 42, to Henry
8hrimpton  and others ;       and  according  to  Mr.  Hassam,  when
Shrirapton made his will, in 1G6G, he called it the •' States Arms ;
"
and when Eliakim Hutchinson became Shrimptou's son-in-law, two
ye:irs later, it is described as '• facing to the head of the dock, and
heretofore called  the  King-'s Amies."  The estate  passed next,
1715-19, to William Hutchinson, the son, and in 1721 to Eliakim
Hutchinson, the grandson, a lo3'alist.
G. 40.   Captain William Tyng, house, garden, close, great yard,
and little yard before the hall window.  His inventory is in ^". E.
Hii^t.  and Geneal. Reg., 1876. p. 432.   A part of this lot,  after
Captain  Tyug's  death, Jan. 18, 1052-53, fell  to  Elizabeth, his
daughter, wife of Thomas Brattle, who died May 10, 1684, when
it fell to Thomas Brattle,   {^eicall Papers, i., 202.)  Subsequently,
in 1694, a part of the estate passed to Mr. Mumford, who after-
wards conveyed it to the Quakers for a meeting-house.  (Shurtleff,
Desc. of Boston, p. 229.)   On the rear of this lot, after passages
had been opened across it, the first  wooden house of the ' Mani-
festo Church" was erected in 1699, and stood through the provin-
cial period.   A part of this lot was conveyed by Brattle to John
"Wing, and by him to Eliakim Hutchinson.   (See N. E. Hist, and
Geneal. Reg.\ 1880. p. 43.)
G. 41.   Richard  Bellingham,  the  residence  of  the  Governor
probably before he built the house on Cotton Hill.   In 1644 he
compounded with the town by accepting a piece of marsh on the
other side of the dock in lieu of the waste ground before this house.
Hereabout, fronting on Dock Square, stood a landmark known in
the early part of the next century as Colson's Stone House.
G. 42.   Christopher Stanley.   (See p. 43 of Book.)
WiUiam Balston sold the lot August, 1638, when it consisted of
house, yard, garden, and close  " back side of Mr. Coddington,"
to Thomas Cornell or Cornwell ;     who sold to Edward Tyng, 1  643 ;
and he to Christopher Stanley.   This one of  the three Balston
settlers  left  no male issue.   Whitmore, Sevxdl Papers, ii.,  130,
186. corrects Savage in  an account of these Balston settlers.
G. 43.  Thomas Buttolph. house and garden.  Buttolpli's will is in
N.E. Hist. a)id Geneal. Reg.. April, 1862. p. 159. leaving to his wife
Annahis house, yards, stable, barn, and other housing, and after her
to his son Thomas.  This he calls his • new house."  This old house
he leaves to Thomas till his mother dies :    then to his son John.
G. 44.   Valentine Hill, house, sold to Robert Turner, shoemaker,
in  1644.   Turner's will  is  dated  1651.   (See xV.  E. Hist,  and
Geneal. Reg.. July. 1850, p. 285.)
G. 45.   Mr. Henry Dunster.   [House and yard, with the street
east and south, T. Hawkins west and north.   Evidently the north
corner of Court and Washington streets. —W.H.W.]
G. 46.   Thomas Hawkins.  [House and yard, with  V. Hill
north, the street cast. J.  Biggs west, H. Dunster and Centry-hill
street south.    —W. H.  W.
]
 - 304 - 
Appendix.                   97
G. 47.   John Biggs.   [House andyard, with Bellingham north,
Centrj'-hill street south, T. Hawkins, V. Hill, T. Buttolph and C.
Stanley east. James Brown west. —AV.H.W.]
G. 48.   James Brown, house.   His will. lij.')l. is in X. E. Hist,
and Geneul.  Reg.. Oct.,  1»J3, p.  305.   Hereabout, on the lower
corner of the present Franklin avenue, Samuel Kneeland. in 1718,
began a printing office, and here printed some of the early Boston
newspapers.  Later it became the stand of James Franklin ;     and
here his brother Benjamin assisted him on the  Xen: England (Joxi-
rant, and in 1723 became uixler a pretence its proprietor.   In 17G9
it was the office of Edes and Gill, prominent printers of their day.
G. 49.   Alexander Beck.   [House and garden, with the street
south. .Mr. Bellingham north. J.  Brown east, J.  Scottow west. —
W.H.W.]
G. 50.   Joshua Scottow.   [House and garden of about half an
acre. Mr.Bellingham north-east. A. Beck south-east. Sudburystreet
south-west, B. Thwing north-west.   Evidently Gentry Hill street
ended and Sudbury street began at about this point :   but this point
is about the corner of Cornhill. and our Sudbury street is nowcon-
tracted to the part north of Hanover street. —W.H.W.]
G. 51.      Benjamin Thwing. house.  It was about at this point that
Smibert the painter lived in  1743, and Brattle street was subse-
quently cut off in part from the estate of the artist.   [Benjamin
Thwing is called •• mv man," bv Ralph Hudson, in his will of 24
Sept.. 1G38.—W.H.aV.]
G. 52.   William Wilson, joiner, with considerable back land.
Soon after the middle of the next century the building known to
our own day as Concert Hall was built.   The estate then extended
to Hanover street.   Gilbert and Louis Deblois, braizers. conveyed
it in 1754 to Stephen Deblois, who in 17G9 sold it to William Tur-
ner ;    and later it  passed to the Amory familv.   (Drake's Boston^
p. 641.)
a. Edward Bendall
b.  John Cotton
c.  Daniel Maud
d. Richard Bellingham
These letters show the front lines ofthe above estates on Tremont
street, more fully figured on Map H, or Map Xo. 8.
LOTS 53  TO 63,  BOUNDED BY COURT, WASHINGTON, SCHOOL,
AND TREMONT STREETS.
G. 53.   Croychley for Dineh* heirs.   On this lot, in  the flour-
ishing days of Governor Shirley, lived one of the best known Bos-
ton merchants, John Wendell ;   and under his roof, in 1759. George
Cradock had his office  as Royal Collector of Customs.  For the
Cradock connections see X. E. Hist, and (Jeneal. Reg.. Jan.. 1854,
p. 28 ;    Ai)ril, 1855, p. 123.
G. 54.   Richard Tapping, house :     sold to Xathaniel Williams ;
again in 1649 to Richard Critchle}" or Cro3'chley, who married the
 - 305 - 
98         City Docuiment No. 46.
—
Part 2.
widow of William Dinely, the barbcr-surgcon, Tv^bosc  sad fate, ir»
IGOO, is  described in  Mr. Scudder's  chapter, in Vol. I.  of the
Memorial IlisPrn/, and who left to his widow and children the next
lot.   A son of Dinely, named Jcihn, survived him ;    and the infant
with the name of sad remembrance, who came after the father's
death, —Fathergone Dinely, —administered o:i his elder brother's
estate.   Between 53 and 54, on the lot novt^ covered by the Adams
Express Company's building, lived Colonel Daniel Henchman, the
bookseller  and bookbinder, with whom Thomas Hancock served
his time, and whose daughter Hancock married.   She, Lydia Han-
cock, gave the estate to  the  Brattle-street  Church in  17G5, for a
parsonage.  James Otis at one time lived in the house.
G. 55.   The Prison lot where the Court-House now stands.
G. 56.   Richard Parker.   [House, l)arn,  and yard,  with the
prison-yard west,  the  market-place cast,  J.  Leverett north,  R.
Truesdale and the meeting-house south. —W.H.W.I
G. 57.   John Leverett.   [House and yard,  with  R.  Parker
south and west, the street north and east.   This lot is where Sears'
Building stands. —W.H.W.]
G. 58.   Richard Truesdale, house and garden.   Sargent, Deal-
ings tuilh the D ad, ii-,  5G7, sa3's that Benjamin Faneuil, brother of
Peter, had his town residence on this lot at a later day.  [Valentine
Hill was on his south. —W.H.W.]
G. 59.   Valentine Hill.   [House and garden, with the street
east, the meeting-house and R. Truesdale north, the prison-garden
west,  R. Sedgwick  south. —W.H.W.]  Valentine  Hill  sold  in
1G45 to William Davies.   Hill moved, after  1G50, to Dover, New
Hampshire.  It was probably from a building on this lot Ihat the
first  number of the Boston Ntivs-Lelter was published, April 24,
1704.
G, 60.   The Meeting-house.   [The first  one was built on the
west side of State street, where Braziers Building is.    In 1G40 it
was given up, and this  site chosen.   In 1809, it was sold to Ben-
jamin Joy, who built Joy's Building ;    now torn down to give place
to Rogers' Building. —W.H.W.]
G. 61.   Major-General Robert  Sedgwick, house  and garden,
who had lived earlier in Charlestown.   It was in a court wliich, in
the provincial period, extending through this lot toward the present
Court square, that the fire  of  1711 began, breaking out,  as the
Neivs-Letter of the day said,  " in an old tenement, within a back-
yard  in  Cornhill  [Washington  street],  near  the  first  meeting-
house ;
" and Sewall says it " broke out in a little house belonging
to Captain Ephraim Savage, b}' reason of t'le drunkenness of
Moss," whom the Netvs-Letter characterizes as a "poor Scottish
woman ;  "  and Drake gives  the name of Mary Morse.   {Setvu/l
Fapf'rs,  ii.,  323.)   There are  two petitions  on file  in  the City
Clerk's office  giving the names of some of the pi-incipal sufferers
by this  fire.
G. 62.   EdAvard Hutchinson, house and garden.   After his re-
moval to Rhode Island, his son was permitted to sell it to his uncle,
Richard Hutchinson, of London, who never  occupied  it.    The
"Old Corner Book-Store," erected in  1712, now occupies a por-
 - 306 - 
Appendix.                   99
tioii of tliG lot ;    and the closcont of the property has been traced in
Shurtleff's Description ofBoston^ p. G71.
G. 63.   Henry Messenger, joiner, house and garden.  This is
the lot on which now stands the building of the Massachusetts His-
torical  Society, and, in  pari,  the  Boston Museum.  His will  is
dated March 15, 1G72, and he died in 1G81, his wife Sarah inherit-
ing the estate ;    and she at her death, 1G97, gave the half next the
burial-place to her son Thomas, and the other half to her son Sim-
eon.   An account of his descendants is in N. E. Hist, and Geneal.
lieg., Oct., 18G2, p. 309 ;    and is given more at length in the Geue-
alogjf of the Messeuger Famili/, by George W. Messenger, Albany,
LSG3.   This Messenger lot, separating the town property on School
from that on Court street, was in part later acquired by the town.
{Gleaner Articles, No. 3.)   [His south bound was Scottow and
the burying-ground.—W.H.W.]
[_Note. —Thomas Scottow's lot on School street, the only one
between Hutchinson's corner andthe King's chapel burying-ground,
is noted on MapF, orNo. G, as the front ison that plan.—W.H.W.]
THE MARKET PLACE, NOW THE OLD STATE-HOUSE LOT.
G. 64.   The open market-stead, where later,  in  1G.j7-58, the
"Town and State House" was built, —the colon}' excusing the
town from current payment of rates in consideration.   (-Tune 10,
1G58, ]\lass. Archives, "Towns," i.  108.)   The money had largel}'
been received under Robert Keayne's will.   The colony and the
county subsequently shared with Boston the expense of repairs,
the building being of wood.  It was destroyed in the fire of 1711,
and the next year a building of brick took its place.   All but the
walls of this building were burned in  1747 {Historical Magazine,
Sept., 1868), and many of the original papers, which we might ex-
pect to find now at the State House, were probably then consumed.
{Sewall Papers, i.,  161.)   [It was used as the State House until
the new State House, on Beacon Hill, was finished and occupied,
January 11th, 1798.   For thirty years following it was given up to
business purposes.   In 1830 the City took possession, and it be-
came the City Hall.   In 1840, the City having changed its offices
to the site on School street,  it  was again let for business.   After
mnch hard usage, the City Conncil,ln 1881, appropriated $35,000
to restore the exterior and the legislative halls, leaving only the
lower floor and basement for business purposes. —W.H.W.]
LOTS G5 TO 83.    BEGINNING AT THE WATER'S EDGE, ON THE
SOUTH SIDE OF STATE STREET, THENCE THROUGH DEVON-
SHIRE STREET TO WATER STREET (BOTH SIDES), THENCE
ON WASHINGTON STREET TO STATE STREET.
G. 65.   William  Hudson,  Sr.,  house  and garden.   He was
allowed to keep an ordinary in 1G40; and in 1643 a " harbor for
boats" was ordered to be made in the marsh near by.   This lot is
at the corner of Kilby street.   After Hudson's death it  passed to
Francis Smith, and later to Governor Leverett.   Here in  the pro-
 - 307 - 
100       City Document No. 46. —Part 2.
vincial cla3"S  stood the Bunch of Grapes Tavern, with a sign of
three bunches of the fruit ;    and Drake says two of the bunches
now hang over the door of a store in North Market street.   The
same writer gives its landlords as Francis Holmes (I7l2), William
Coffin  (1731), Joshua Barker  (1749),  Colonel Joseph IngersoU
(1764).   Samuel Holbrook seems to  have owned part of it,  at
least, before 1724, when his widow sold a moiety to Thomas Waite.
(ZV. E. Hist, and Geneal. Reg.,  1877, p. 423.)   Goelet's Journal
{N. E. Hist, and Genpxd. Reg..,  1870, p.  53) mentions Weather-
head as the keeper in  1750, and says it  is  "noted for the best
punch house in Boston, and resorted by most the gent" merch'' and
masters vessels."   This passage b^' Ihe shore was known as Mack-
erel Lane, and remained very narrow until the great fire of 1 7G0
swept everything awa^',  when it  was widened and named Kilby
street, in compliment to Christopher Kilby, a wealthy Boston mer-
chant, who lived long in London as agent for the town and colony,
and was now living  in  New York.  He was very liberal  to the
sufferers by the fire.    The committee for laying out the widened
street were Andrew Oliver,  Thomas Hancock, Joshua Henshaw,
and John ScoUay ;    and then- report is on file.
G. 66.   William Davics, S"".     [House, with the street north, W.
Hudson, Sr ,   east, Mr. Winthrop south and west. —W.H.W.]
G. 67.   John Winthrop.   [His possessions are not in the Book ;
perhaps they were recorded on the missing first  two pages.   This
lot is not his house-lot, which was on Washington street, opposite
the foot of School street. —W.H.W.]
G. 68.   Elder Thomas Leverett, house and garden.  When he
died, in  1G50, this estate is described as "old houses and lands
lyeing neare the old meeting-house in Boston, £50."  This lot ex-
tended back on the line of the present Congress street ;     and on a
portion of it,  opposite the jumtion of  Congress street and Ex-
change place  (lately Lindall street), the Quakers built a meeting-
house in 1700, and had their burial-ground in the rear.   Interments
took place, though rarely, in this ground till  1815, and in 182G the
bodies,  such as could be found, were removed, chiefly to Lynn.
(See Shurtleff, Description ofBoston, p. 231.)   Leverett's property
also took in the present Exchange Building lot.   The upper part
of Leverett's lot afterwards became the home of Andrew Belcher,
a wealthy merchant, who lived here in 1G9I ,   and was the father of
Governor Belcher.   For a note on Andrew Belcher's family con-
nections, see Seioall Papers, iii.,  IGO ;     and iV. E. Hist. a)td Geneal.
Reg., 1873, p. 239.   Andrew Belcher died in 1717.   East of him
was the land which Governor Leverett sold to Jeremiah Dummer,
a goldsmith, in 1G77, the father of Lieut.-Governor AVilliam Dum-
mer, and of Jeremiah, —the last being born on this spot.
G. 69.   Roliert  Scott.   [House,  with  Mr. Leveritt  east  and
south, the street west and north.   Evidently on the corner ofa lane,
presumable Pudding Lane, now Devonshire street. —W.H.W.]
G. 70.   Robert Scott.   [His lot No. 3, a garden, with T. Lev-
eritt east, H. Webb south, the liighway south and west. —"N7.H.W.]
G. 71.   Henry Webb,  [His lot  No. 2, with J. Leveritt east,
the highway and R. Scott north, the lane west, and T. Oliver
 - 308 - 
Appendix.                   101
south.   This south boundary is a puzzle.   It apparently' should be
"W. I'arsons  (see next lot, G. 72), and Oliver does not seem to
have owned east of the 1me.  Perhaps Oliver had sold to Parsons,
and tlie old ownership remained in mind. —W.H.W.]
G. 72.   William Parsons.   [House and garden, with the lane
west, II. Webb north, J. iJavies east, and the Springate south.
—
W.II.W.]
G. 73.   James Davies.  [House and garden, the Springate south,
T. Leverett north, W. Parsons west, the marsh east. —W.II.W.]
G. 74.   John Spoore, house and garden.   Spoore was called of
Clapton,  Somersetshire,  when he bought in  1G38,  Mr, Wilke's
bouse and ground, —perhaps this lot.   Somewhere hereabout, on
the Creek, the leather-dressers, in  1G43, were granted a place to
water their leather.   Spoore mortgaged this property in 1G48, and
by some means we find Deacon Henry Bridgham in possession in
1055, who built, in 1G70, a mansion on the ground, and had his tan-
pits near by.   Hedid not live, however, to move into the new house,
but died in the old  one, in March, IG70-71 ;     and on the death of
his widow, in  1672, the propert}' passed to the sons, and in 1G80
was divided, the new house falling to Dr. John Bridgham, of Ips-
wich.   The doctor  died  in  1721,  and  this  house  fell  to  his
nephew, Joseph Bridgham, a recent graduate of Harvard, but now
an apothecary in Harvard.  Bridgham sold it in February, 1734-
35, to Francis Borland, for £1,2U0.  Joseph Calef was a tenant
of the house, and plied his trade with the tan-pits.   It was while
Calef was here that Congress street was laid out from Milk to
Water street.   He died in September, 17G3, and the house and
grounds fell  to Francis Lindall Borland, but afterwards came in
joint possession of John Borland, a brother of Francis Lindall,
and to  the  children  of Wait Still AVinthrop, who had married a
daughter of Francis Borland.  The remaining history of the house
falls later than the provincial times.   It became the famous Julien
House, and its descent is traced at length b}- Shurtletf, Boston, Go9.
G. 75,   William Ilibbens, gentleman, house, garden, and stable.
Somewhere between 74 and 75 on the AYater-street side,  Major
John Walley had his mansion-house in the early part of the next
century,  with wharf belonging,  and land stretching through to
Milk street.   Upon his  death, in  1711, it  descended to  his  son
John ;    and on his death, in  1755, it was advertised as containing
" upwards of twent}' rooms."  The present Devonshire street runs
through G. 75, and Avas early known as Joyliffe's lane, from John
Joyliffe, a prominent citizen, who lived upon it,  and died in 17U1.
(Drake's Boston, 509.)
G. 76.   Richard Sherman, house.   His will, in 16G0, is printed
in N. E. Hist, and Geneal. Reg., July, 1855, p. 227.   (See Ibid,
April, 18G4, p. 157, for the will of the widow Robinson, formerly
wife of Richard Sherman.)  [Richard Sherman, house and garden,
with Mr. Ilibbins north and east, A. Haugh south, the Green west.
—Ay.H.AY.]
G. 77.  The Spring-gate.  [This was a spring andwatering place,
probably reaching from AVashington street to Mr. Ilibhins' land.
Spring lane preserves the  memory, and the great spring found ia
 - 309 - 
102        City Docuivient No. 46. —Part 2.
digging the  foundations of the  New Post Office  is  probably the
representative of the original. —W.H.AV.]
G. 78.   Deacon Thomas Oliver, house and garden.   (See his
relationship to the other OHvers in JSL E. Hint, avd Geneal. lieg.,
April, 18G5, p. 100.)   Between this lot and Gov. Winthrop's well-
known house, on the  line  of  the present Spring  lane, was the
ancient spring-gate of the first comers.   When, in  the provincial
period. Water street was extended through this lot into the present
Washington street,  on the  northerly  corner, at  the sign of  the
" Heart  and Crown," Thomas Fleet, in  1731, had his  printing
office, and here, in 1735, he began the  publication of the Boston
Evening Post.
G. 79.   Richard Fairbanks, house and garden; sold in 1652 to
Robert Turner, who later  built  a now house on the lot, which is
inentioued in his will {X. E. Hist, and Geneal. Reg., Jan., 1859, p.
11).   Here at a later  day the Blue Anchor was kept by George
Monck, whom Dunton celebrates in his Letters, and who extended
his  career into  the provincial  days.   (See Whitmore's note to
Record Commissioners' edition of Gleaner Articles, p. 18.)   Apeti-
tion from Joseph Willson for a license shows that this or another
tavern of  the same name was called  "Near Oliver's Dock" in
1755, and that it  had been known as  such for forty years, —
a
lesser period than is  true, certainly if it was not another hostlery.
It was the  same tavern that Thomas Bayley petitioned  for the
privilege of keeping in 1752.
G. 80.   William Corser, house and garden.  He is called in his
will, 1G73, Cosser, and, being " weak of bod3-," makes his mark to
it.    His wife was Joanna.
G. 81.   IMajor Robert Keayne, house and garden.  This public-
spirited and somewhat eccentric citizen was a prominent merchant.
The signatures of the  "overseers" of his  remarkable will  (an
abstract is  given in  N. E. Hist, and Geneal.  Reg., Jan., 1852,
p. 89, etc.) are appended to a petition to the colony government in
1667, on file  at the  State House.   {Mas>i.  Archives, "Estates,"
Vol. I.)   The most extended account of Keayne is found in Whit-
man's Ancient and Honorable ArtiUeri/ Conrpany, of which Keayne
was the leading charter member.  On this spot, in provincial times,
Daniel Henchman kept his  well-known book shop ;     and in  this
shop, later,  Henry Knox was brought up.   Nicholas Boone also
kept a book-shop on this lot in the earl}" part of the eighteenth
century.
G. 82.   Mary, widoAV of Ralph Hudson, house.   She died in
1651, and left £10 to the school.   At this date she had two houses
on this lot, occupied b}" Nathaniel Duncan and John Tincker.   {N.
E. Hist, and Geneal. Reg.. Jan., 1850, p. 54.)   Near this spot, in
the next century, John Phillips kept a book-shop.  Drake, Boston,
]).  566, gives an engraving of his sign.   He died March 30, 1763.
(See Boston News-Letter, April 28,  1763.)  [Mrs. Hudson's lot
is not specified in the Book. —W.H.W.]
G. 83.   Henr}' Webb, house, with William Corser just south of
him on the lane.   The will  of Henry Webb, 1660, is  given in
N. E. Hist, and Geneal. Reg., April, 1856, p. 177.   His daughter
 - 310 - 
Appendix.                   103
Margaret, Avidow of Jacob Sheaffc  (whose inventory is  given in
Be(jisie7%  Jan,  185G,  p.  84),  inherited the "Mansion," and his
grandchild, Elizabeth Sheaffe, his wareliouse " now let out to build."
LOTS 84 TO 100, NORTH SIDE OF STATE STREET, FROM WASH-
INGTON STREET TO THE WATER-LINE, THENCE ALONG
THE COVE AND WASHINGTON STREET.
G. 84.   John Cogan, house and shop.   Cogan's will  (given in
N. E. Hist, and Geneal. li'g.,  Jan., 1855, p. 35; also see 1877,
p.  lOG) speaks of his mansion-house and the house adjoining (oc-
cupied by Goodman Bumstead), and two shops adjoining.   One-
third of the property descended to his widow Martha, whom he had
married when, as the fourth wife of Governor Winthrop, she sur-
vived him.   She was a sister of Increase Nowell of Charlestown,
and widow, when Winthrop married her, of Thomas Coitmore, of
the  same town.  Joseph Rocke married Ehzabeth, daughter of
Cogan.
G. 85.   Rev. John Wilson, bouse, two gardens, yard, and barn,
bounding south on Wilson's lane, now widened and called Devon-
shire  street.   Wilson's will is  given in  N. E. Hist, and Geneal.
Rg., Oct., 1862, p. 343.   In 1G41 he sold part to Sergeant John
Davies, the joiner, and provided that he should not be "annoyed
with any stincks ;" and Davies in 1G4G sold to Edmund Jackson,
from whom it passed to Ilczekiah Usher, the merchant of a later
day, who had removed from Cambridge to Boston in 1G4G.  Usher's
inventory mentions a dwelling-house, garden, land, and "inward
warehouse," with lean-tos at the dock, —£700 ;   the dwelling-house
that John Usher lives in, and " outward warehouse," by the town
dock, £570.  His descendants are traced in N. E.Hist, and Geneal.
Reg., October, 18G9, p. 410.
G. 85.   Anthony Stoddard, linendraper, who, in 1G44, was suf-
fered to open his  " shop winclow board" two feet into the street,
and who bounded east on the "new street"  (Exchange street).
In 1G44 he sold the northerly part, fronting on the new street, to
James Mattock the  cooper,  and jn the  same year this  portion
passed successively to John Synderland and to John Parker the
carpenter.   In 1G4G, Stoddard, John Leverett joining with him,
sold  the  southerly part to Henry Shrimpton, brazier.   His will,
IGGG, is  in  N. E. Hist, and Geneal. Reg., Jan., 18G1, p. 7G.   It
was on this  corner that the  Royal Exchange Tavern stood at a
later day.   Luke Vardy kept it in 1727, and he was succeeded in
1747 by Robert Stone, and in his time it was a resort of the British
officers' stationed in the town.  It was in this house, in 1728, that
the altercation began which ended in the first duel fought in Bos-
ton,  when Benjamin Woodbridgc was killed  by Henry Phillips.
(See Shurtleff's Boston, p. 222.)
[From W. Franklin's lot, G. 98, it seems that he had Stoddard
and John Leverett south.   Leverett's presumed lot is shown on
Lamb's map. —W.H.W.]
 - 311 - 
104        City Document No. 46. —Part 2.
G. 87.  Valentine Hill ;    sold to William Davies, and he, in 1645,
to Anthon}' Stoddard.   This was the site of the States Arms Tav-
ern, and just  before the  Revolution the royal Custom-house was
here, Bartholomew Green living in the chambers over it.
G. 88.   William Davies, Jr.   [House with W. Pierce east and
north, V. Hill west, the street south. —W.H.W.]
G. 89.   AViUiam Pierce, along the line  of the present 'Change
Avenue.  (See N. E. Hist, and Genml. Beg., 1878, p. 319.)   On
the site forming the lower corner of this  avenue, after the middle
of the next century, John Mein kept the London Bookstore, the
most considerable in tlie  town ;      and here he started the earliest
circulating library.   Opposite  the  northerly  end of this  estate,
where it  abutted on the dock, on land reclaimed from the tide,
Peter Faneuil built, in 1742, the  famous hall.    [Pierce had house
and garden, with D. Sellick east, I. Grosse and the highway north,
W. Davies, Jr., and the  street south, E. Bendall, V. Hill, and W.
Davies west. —AV. H. AV.]
G. 90.   David Sellick.   [House and garden,  with the  street
south, AY. Pierce Avest, V. Hill north, J. Oliver east.   Sufl". deeds,
i.,  f.  100, 27th, 12 mo., 1648.  A^ Hill sells to D. Sellick his house
that H. bought of Mr. Aspinwall, with the barber's shop and all
pertaining, except what H. had sold to John Friend.  At the same
time Hill sold to Mary Frieud a quarter of an acre with the street
south, D. Sellick  west, E. Tyng cast,  V. Hill north, with a right
of way to the water.   This lot  does not seem to be in the Book,
unless, as AVinsor sa3's, it was James Oliver's —the next lot, G. 91.
—AV.H.AY.]
G. 91.   James OUver.  [House and yard, with the street south,
V. Hill north, D. Sellick west, E. Tyng^ast. —AV.H.AV.]
G. 92.   Edward Tyng, house, brewhouse, warehouse, with wharf
in front, which he sold, in  1651, to James Everill, describing it  as
" my wharf against the end of the great street," and along which
on the south went the " town's way down upon the flats," —which
corresponds to the present State street below Merchants' Row ;   and
this street was then designated as '' Mr. Hill's highway twenty feet
broad," which followed the shore of the Cove to the present Dock
square.   Somewhere on the  water front of  T3'ng's estate there
were wharves occupied  by Thomas A^enuer,"  and  another that
Henry Webb was allowed "to enjoy " in 1647, having bought it of
Tyng.  In the next century the rich Huguenot merchant, Andrew
Faneuil, had his warehouse where Tyng's wharf stood, the present
lower corner of Merchants' Row.  This was in 1732 ;     and later, in
1743, Richard Smith kept here the Admiral A'ernon Tavern.  In
1750 there seems to have been a change, for in the State Archives
there is a petition  from Smith to be licensed to keep the Crown
Coffee House " at the lower end of  King street," which had been
a licensed house for nearly forty 3'ears.   At the same date James
Gooch, Jr., took possession of the  "A^ernon's Head," as his peti-
tion calls  it.    Smith's  predecessor in  the  "Crown" was widow
•   [He is styled a wine-cooper, and was later of Salem.  Returning to England, he
became a Fitih Monarchy preacher, and engaged in an insurrection ;   was executed in
1661.]
 - 312 - 
Appendix.                   105
Anna Swords, and the estate was then owned by GovernorBelcher.
Robert Shclcock kept it in 1751.   It stood at the lower corner of
Chatham Row, projecting into the street.   It was the first  honse
on Long Wharf, which, after  the flats  had been filled  in  below
Merchants' Row, was projected by Oliver Noyes and others in 1707.
Noyes was a selectman and a citizen of prominence ;    and the town,
within a year or two, adopted his plan to build a pier to low-water
mark. —{See Proceedings Mass. Hist. Soc. for Sept., 18G-i.)
 - 313 - 
106        City Document No. 4G. —Part 2.
Near the ' '  Crown" were the  counting-house and warehouse of
a noted mercantile lirm of the earl^'  part of the last century, —
Samuel and Cornelius  Waldo, —later  on Merchants' Eow, near
the .^wing Bridge.   (See a note on the family in N. E. Hist, and
Genal. Jin/., April, ISGi, p. 17G.)
[Mr. Lamb assigns a lot here between G. 91 and G. 92 to Henry
Webb ;    probably the one which Winsor notes above. —W.II.W.]
G. 93.   Valentine Hill; sold, in 1G45, to Samuel Cole, who had
before this  kept a house of  entertainment somewhere along the
water front in  this  vicinity.   Cole's will, IGGG, is  given in JSf.  E.
Hist, and (Jeneal.lieg., July, I80I, p. 249.   This is, too, the nearest
point on the original shore to the spot where, in the provincial
times, on land reclaimed from the dock, and near the head of the
present South ^Market street, .John Hancock Ivept store, and by ad-
vertisement called upon debtors to the estate of his late uncle, the
Hon. Thomas Hancock, to make pa3-ment.
G. 94.   Isaac Grosse.   [House, with W. Pierce south and east,
E. Bendall west, the Cove north.   This lot is  a[)pareutl3' laid  out
on Lamb's map, with no name affixed. —W.H.W.]
G. 95.  Edward Bendall, stone house, with warehouse adjoining.
Bendall had been allowed, in  IGoT, to establish from this point a
ferry to Noddle's Island, and to the ships riding before the town.
His lot was just west of 'Change avenue.
G. 96.   George Foxcroft.   [House lot,  with the Cove north,
E. Bendall east and south, R. Nash north (an evident blunder for
west).—AV.H.W.]
G. 97.   Robert Nash, butcher, house, garden and outhouses, in-
cluding his slaughter-house, which occasioned the town'smen more or
less trouble from the careless disposition Nash made of his garbage.
He was warned not to kill  beasts in the street in 1G47.   [His lot
says, " bounded north and west —."   I  suspect this should be the
Cove, as Bendall has the Cove north and east.   This would indi-
cate a point of land with the Cove curving, especially as Franklin
does not bound on Nash, but on a street. —W.H.W.]
G. 98.   William Franklin.   [House and garden, with the street
east and north, J. Wilson west, and J. Leverett and A. Stoddard
south. —W.H.W.]
G. 99.  Major Edward Gibbons, house, garden, and " housings,"
including two shops, one occupied by.John Newgate, hatter, and the
otlier by Thomas Savage, the tailor, better known from bis milit;iry
honors.   [Gibbons has the  street  west  and north ;       Rev. John
Wilson south and east. —W.H.W.]
G. 100.   William Corser, house, which seems to be the lot after-
wards occupied by WiUiam Tilley, whose wife Alice, under power
from her husband, convej'ed  it,  in  1G49, to Anthony Stoddard.
[This lot is  not in  the  Book, but is  given in the bounds of Rev.
John Wilson's lot,  G. 85, as "Major Gibones, W". Courser and
John Cogan on the west." —W. H. W.]
 - 314 - 
Appendix.                  107
LOTS ON THE NORTH SIDE OF FORT HILL, FACING THE
COVE.
G. /.   Valentine Hill's bridoo, about where the present Liberty
square is, on the line of Kilby street.   There were others round
this shore in 1G49, when Hutchinson, Gillom, Ward, and Compton,
and also Jonathan Balston, Thomas Smyth, Stephen Baker, and
Richard Richardson, were allowed to  make a highway over the
marsh " to Mr. Hill's bridge."
G. g.   The present bend on Batterymarch street, which was laid
out in 1G73.   On the maish to  the  north-west, on the corner of
what is now Batterymarch street and Liberty square, st^od a well-
known ordinary.   The marsh had been let  by the town in IGoG to
Captain James Johnson, and this  site Avas  conveyed by him to
Thomas Hull; and in 1G73 Nathaniel Bishop lived here, and the
house was known as  "The Blue  Bell,"  and as early  as  1G74
was jointl}'  tenanted b}-  Deacon Henry Alline and Hugh Drury.
In 1G92 it is called "The Castle Tavern," and Mr. PLassam thinks
{N. E. Hist, and Geneal. Ivty., 1877, p. 320) it  ceased to be an
inn after 1707.
G. lOi.   Nathaniel Woodward.  [House and garden, with B.
Ward and E.  Hutchinson east,  the  marsh north  and west. —
W.H.AV.]
G. 102.   Edward Hutchinson.   [House  and  yard,  with  B.
Ward east and south,  N. Woodward west, the  marsh north. —
W.H.W.]
G. 103.   Benjamin Ward.  [House and about an acre, with N.
Woodward, Jr.,  west, B.  Gillom  east,  IMr.  Hibbins  south,  E.
Hutchinson and the marsh north. —W^.H.W.]
G. 104.   Benjamin Gillom.   [House and garden, with B. Ward
west, W\ Hibbins south, J. Compton and the Cove east, the marsh
north. —W.H.W.]
G. 105.   John Compton.  House and garden, with  the Cove
east, B. Gillom west and north, the Fort Hill south. —W.H.W.]
G. 106.   The Fort.   In 1G44 land of Mr. William Hibbins was
taken for the " breast-worke upon the Fort Hill" ;   and also, same
j-ear, land of James Penn.
G. 107.  William Hibbins.  [Apparently part of his lot described
in the Book (see plan G. 75, mde), as follows :   House, garden, and
stable, with J.  \Vinthrop  west, the  Springate north, J.  Spoore
east, and R. Sherman and some part of Fort street south.   As the
marsh and bridge  were  hereabouts,  it  is   clear  that  Hibbins
owned some land east of them, probablv all  in  one continuous
tract.   See G. 103, and G. 104. —W.H.W.J
 - 315 - 
Map H, or No,
(108)
 - 316 - 
MAP H, OR NO. 8.
LOTS 1  TO 4,  WEST OF HANOVER STREET, AND NORTH OF
PORTLAND STREET.
H.I.  James Johnson, glover,  n[»lancl  and marsh;  sold  to
Thomas Hawkins, baker and innholder, in 1GG2.   In 1G71-72 this
lot and John Davies',by assignments and foreclosnre of mortgnges,
came into the possession of Sampson Sheaffc, and from him the
estate passed to William Stoughton, the Governor, v^ho, though a
Dorchester man, possessed when he died, in 1701, a large property
in real estate hereabout, including the Bhie Ball estate.
This List,  as well as  other pi'opeity,  fell  to Stoughton's niece
Mehitabel, wife of Captain Thomas Cooper, and when the Cap-
tain  died, in  1705,  this  lot  was valued  at  £G50.   His  widow
afterwards married  Peter Sergeant, and again, in  1714:,  Simeon
Stoddard;  and  as  Mrs.  Stoddard  she  died  in  1738,  and  her
son by her first  husband. Rev. William Cooper, of the Brattle-
square Church, sold the lot in  1743 to Dr. William Douglass, a
ph3'sician and author, who had come from Scotland in  171G, and
wrote a Snmmar}' of New England History- ;     and when Douglass
died, in  1754, mention is  made of  his  mansion-house in  Green
Dragon lane, which was a passage in  the direction of the present
Union street, and upon which his house abutted.   Douglass was
a good deal exercised over the taxes he was called upon to pay ;
and Drake, Boston^ p. 023, sets forth his querulous communication
to the assessors.   (See also N. E. Hist, and Geneal. Ecg., 1877,
p. 118.)   Ten 3-ears later, Catharine Kerr, the sister of Douglass,
conveyed it to the St. Andrew's Lodge of Freemasons, and after-
wards it became celebrated as the Green Dragon Tavern.  Shurtleff
considers that it was in the yard in the rear, which bordered upon
the  mill-pond, that Franklin, as a boy, built  the wharf which he
describes in  his Autobiography.  The house  had probably been
built in Stoughton's day, and it was kept as an inn by Alexander
Smith, who died in it in 1G9G.   To him succeeded Hannah Bishop,
and in 1G97 John Gary took it,  and in a petition in 1705 he speaks
of having kept it several j'cars.   In  1734 Joseph Kidder was the
landlord.   It acquired the widest reputation after the Revolutionary
troubles began, when the " Green Dragon" became the rall_>ing-
place of the patriots.   (Shurtleff, Description of Boston, p. G13.)
Opposite the  ''•Green Dragon," John Borland owned property,
which in 1714 he conveyed to Daniel Johonnot, where the latter
seems to have had his Distil-IIouse.   (N. E. Hist, and Geneal.
Reg., Oct., 1852, p. 357.)
 - 317 - 
110       City Doctoient No. 46. —Part 2.
[This lot is No. 4 of Jolmson's possessions, being three quarters
of an acre of upland and marsh, with the Cove north and east,
John Smith west, and John Davies south. —W.H.W.]
H. 2.   John Smith.   [House and garden, with the Cove north,
the street south, J. Davies east, E. Gibbons west. —W.H.W.]
H. 3.   Major Edward Gibbons.   [His lot 2, being a house and
lot, with the Cove or Mill Pond north, the street south, J. Smith
east, R. Nash west. —W.H.W.]
H. 4.   Robert Nash.   [His  lot No. 2, being an aci'e  with a
house-lot, with the Cove north, the street south, the lane west, E.
Gibbons, east. —W.H.W.]
LOTS 5  TO 10,  BOUNDED BY PORTLAND STREET, HANOVER
STREET, AND SUDBURY STREET.
H. 5.   HenryPease.   [House and garden, with the Cove north,
the street south, the lane east, J.  Leverett west.   The street is
now Hanover street, and the lane is Portland street. —W.H.W.]
H. 6.   John Leverett and Henry Pease had lots  here.   The
highway adjoining, the present Portland street,  seems to be the
twenty-five-foot passage that Henry Pease agreed to  " fence out
through his  lands  against the Cove, near his  dwelhng, unto the
cross high way by our brother James P^verill's," 1(339-40.   It was
on this  lot, where now stands the American House, that Joseph
Warren,in 17G4, took up his abode, andbeganthe practice of medi-
cine.   He lived then in a house in which Joseph Green, a prominent
merchant of his day, —not to be confounded with Joseph Green
the wit, —died, July 1,  17G5.   Green had bought of  Governor
Belcher, in  1734, the large house on this lot for^£3,GOO.   {N. E.
Hist, and Genecd. Jieg., vi., 275.)
[It will be noted that the next four lots, all  facing on Sudbury
street, bound east on Leverett, who must have owned from Hanover
street  to  the  water line,  though his  lot  is  not  on  record. —
W.H.W.]
H. 7.   Nathaniel Chappel.   [House and gaixlen of about quar-
ter of an acre, with the cove north, J. Cole south, the lane west,
John Leverett east. —AV.H.W.]
H. 8.   John Cole.   House and garden, with N. Chappel north,
J. Mellows south, the lane west, J. Leverett east. —W.H.W.]
H. g.   John Mellow's.   [House and garden, with J. Cole north,
E.  Jackson  south, the  street west, and J.  Leveritt  east.   See
my note in Sewall's Diary, II.,  210, about Mellows and Coney.
—W.II.W.]
H. 10.   Edmund Jackson.   [House and garden, with J. Mel-
lows north, the lane south, J.  Leveritt east,  and Sudbury street
west. —W.II.W.]
It was on this corner that the Orange-Tree Inn stood during the
provincial period.   While it was kept, in 1712, by Jonathan Uard-
well, he set up here the earliest hackney coach stand.   Drake says
that Mrs. Wardwell kept it in 1724.
 - 318 - 
Appendix                  111
EAST CORNER OF HANOVER AND COURT STREETS.
H. II.   Jeremy Houtchiu.   [One house and garden of about a
quarter of  an acre, with Sudbury street south-west,  W. \yilson
south-east, the lane north-west, T.  Makepeace and W. Wilson
north-east.   Sold, in  1G4G, to Roger Fletcher, late of Loudon. —
W.H.W.]
LOTS 12 TO 23,  WEST SIDE OF TREMONT ROW, ACROSS THE
HILL TO CAMBRIDGE STREET, AND ALOJ^G THE WEST SIDE
OF COURT STREET.
H. 12.   Edward Bendall.   This had Sudbur^^  [Court]  street
east, and took in Tremont Row and the centre of ScoUay square.
Governor Endicott seems to  have dwelt during the close of his
life  on  a  part  of this  lot,  leaving when he  died,  in  IGGj, a
widow,  Elizabeth,  whom he  had married in  1G30.   Endicott's
Willis in  N. E. Hist,  and Geneal. Reg.,  April,  18G1, p.  127.
David Yale, a brother of Thomas, the  founder of Yale College,
had, in lG4r), purchased of Bendall, who, holding theological views
at variance with those of the magistrates, found it  convenient to
remove, leaving Thomas Lake and Thomas Clark power of attor-
ney to sell the estate.   Captain John Wall became the purchaser,
and his widow sold it, in 1G78, to Edward Shippen {Seicall l\qwrs,
i.  GO), who sold, in  1702, a part  to  Cyprian iSouthack, who laid
out Southack's lane in 1720  (Howard street).   The selectmen,-in
1733, directed him to  secure  his  hill, b}-   rails  or otherwise, that
people ma}^ not be in danger.   " Gleaner " places " Valley Acre "
in the lower portion of Southack's pasture, referring to  a deed of
1758, when it was the property of John Tyng.  Where it  came
out on Tremont Row, Southack  sold to  John Jekyll,  in  1724,
whose heirs passed it,  in 17G8, to Dr. James Lloyd.  It was on a
part of the original Bendall lot, opposite the head of the modern
Cornhill, that,"in  1683-84, the free writing-school was built,  the
second in the town ;     John Cole being the first master.   Soon after
1700RichardHenchmanwas the master.  (See Drake's Boston, ol2.)
H. 13.   Rev. John Cotton, house and land, extending back as
far as the MountVernon Church. ^  (See Cotton's will in N. E. Hist,
and Geneal. lleg., April, 1851, p. 240.)   The estate passed to his
widow, Sarah (subsequently married to Rev. Richard Mather of
Dorchester), and to Cotton's son by this wife, —the Rev. Seaborn
Cotton.   Cotton's (the father's) will shows that GovernorVane iiad
built the south part of the house when he sojourned with  Cotton,
and had deeded it to Seaborn,  to whom the  father  confirmed it.
Later, it  became by successive  purchases the property of John
Hull, the mint-master,  whose daughter Hannah married  Samuel
Sewall the judge, who occupied the estate  still  later.   AVhitmore
(Sewall Papers, i.  G2, where, p. G3, the descent is traced in detail)
says it was occupied in 1758 by William Vassall, Avho purchased it
Sept. 11 of that year {N. E. Hist, and Geneal. Reg., April, 18G3,
p. 115).   In  1787 he conveyed it  to Leonard V. Borland, who,
 - 319 - 
112       City Docuivient No. 46.
—
Part 2.
in 1790, sold it  to Patrick Jeffrey.   Jeffrey liad  come to Boston
and had married a Madame Hale}', a sister of the notorious John
Wilkes ;     he was an uncle of Francis, Lord Jeffrey.   (See GleaiL'-r
Articles^  Nos. 30 and ol.)   In  180 L   Somerset street  was cut
through the estate, and Jeffrey- sold the part west of the street to
Asa Hammond, in 1804 ;     and the part east to Jonathan Mason, in
1802.   In 1803 Gardiner Greene bought of Mason, and in 1824 he
added the Maud lot (No. 14).   Greene made the estate the most
famous in  Boston.   In 1835  this  and neighboring estates were
sold to Patrick T. Jackson, and Pemberton square was laid out.
H. 14.   Daniel Maud, school-master, house and garden.   He
removed to  Dover, N.H., in  1642, and made his  will in  1G54.
(iV. E. Bist. and Geneal. Beg., April, 1851, p. 241.)   Hezekiah
Usher nest owned it,  who sold it  to  Thomas Scottow,  in  1G45.
'* Gleaner" says it subsequently passed through Leblond, Erving,
Brimmer,  Bowdoin,  Waldo,  AValcott,  Winthrop,  till   Gardiner
Greene, in 1824, annexed it.
H. 15.   Richard  Belliugham, garden plot, but afterwards his
house-lot, when he removed from Washington street.   In his will
he speaks of this house and grounds, with a shop before it.    The
will was set aside, and is printed in N. E. Hist, and Geneal. Reg.,
July, 1850, p. 237.   (See the notes to Mr. Deane's and J\lr. AVhit-
more's  chapters in Vol. I.  of the Memorial History of Boston.)
Bellingham sold the south part of tliis  lot, in  1GG3. to Humphrey
Davis, whose heirs  sold it, in  1710, with a stone house thereon,
for £800, to Andrew Faneuil, from whom the estate descended to
his nephew, Peter Faneuil, and later it  was owned by John Vas-
sall.   The north part was sold to the Rev. John Davenport, and
after tlie  death of his son John, was, in  1G7G, conveyed to the
First Clnu'ch, and became the parsonage lot.   The parish sold it,
in 1787, to Sampson Reed.  Both of these sections of the Belling-
ham estate were united, when AVilliam  Phillips successively pur-
chased them in 1791 and 1805.   There was about half an acre of
Bellingham's lot  back of the other sections which Sewall added to
the original Cotton estate.   {Seicall Papers, i.,  Gl ;     Gleaner Arti-
cles, No. 32.)
H. 16.   Valentine Hill's ground.  A portion of this area lying
on Cambridge street was, later, the Middlecott pasture  {Gleaner
Articles, No. 21), through which, in, 1727, a street was laid out
and called Middlecott ;    but when it was opened through to Beacon
street,  in  1800, it  was called Bowdoin street.   [For a thorough
account of Beacon Hill, and the titles of the estates thereon, con-
sult Mr. Bowditch's " Gleaner" notes, reprinted as volume five of
the Report of the Record Commissioners. —AV.H.AV.]
H. 17.   Robert Meeres, house and garden.   He was aged in
1666, when he executed his will (printed in N. E. Hist, and Geneal.
Reg., Oct.  7,  1863, p.  345), and made his mark.  This lot,  in
1709, came to John Staniford, who sold it  to Rev. Henry Harris,
whose executors sold to James Pemberton. whose family name be-
came in the end attached to Pemberton square.   " Gleaner" traces
another part of the original lot to Dr. Samuel Danforth, in 1785.
H. 18.   Robert Howen, ^ acre.   John and Israel Howen (pre-
 - 320 - 
Appendix.                   113
sumably his heirs) sold it,  in 1GG2-G3, to Simon L3'ndG, who died
in 1G87 ;    and his daughter iSarah was the wife of Kathaniel New-
gate, who conveyed it,  in  1694, under the name of "The Spring
House."
H. ig.   Anne Hunne, widow of George Hunno, -^  acre.   This
lot marks tlie site of the elegant mansion and gruuntls of the late
Theodore Lyman, who purchased it in 1785.
H. 20.   Ilenry Fane.   [House and garden, with Sudbur}- street
east, NewField west, the lane north, J. Newgate south. —W.II.W.]
H. 21.   John Newgate, the hatter, house and gnrden, J acre.
His will, 16G4 {N. E. Hist, and GeneaL Beg., Oct., 1859, p. 3oo),
left  his house to his widow, Ann.   (Also see Register.,  1.879,  p.
57, for Newgate's family.)   Westerly from this a tract belonging
to Newgate fell,  after his death in  1GG5, to Simon Lynde, his son-
in-law ;    and then, in  1G87, or earlier, to his  son,  Samuel Lynde.
About the middle of the last  century it  became the property of
Thomas Bulfinch, and remained in his family for fifty years.   The
Eevere House marks the south end of Bulfinch's four-acre pasture,
as the Mount Vernon Church luarks the north end.   {Gleaner Arti-
cles, No. 23.)
H. 22 and 23.   [Next west of the lots of Fane and Newgate,
Laml;)'s  map places Jeremy Hontchin No. 22, and Mr. Stougliton
No. 23 ;   but 1 find no warrant for them in the Book. —W.H.W.]
LOTS 24 TO 33, BOUNDED BY CAMBRIDGE AND GREEN STREETS,
LEVERETT STREET, THE WATER LINE, AND THE WEST SIDE
OF SUDBURY STREET.
H. 24.   [The square lying north of our Cambridge street, from
Sudbury street  to  Pitts  street,  was owned by James Johnson,
Thomas Hawkins, William Kirkby, James Hawkins, Richard San-
ford, Robert Meers, 'I'homas Scottow, Ricliard Meers, Henry Pease,
Alexander Beck, and John Leverett.   1  cannot, however, see the
grounds for the divisions made on Lamb's map, as will be pointed
outlater. —W.H.W.]
H. 24.   James Johnson.   [House and garden, with the street
south-east and south-west, the Cove north-west, and Thomas Haw-
kins north-east.   Evidently the corner, tind, as evidently, running
through to the water. —W.H.W.]
H. 25.   Thomas Hawkins.   [Apparently not  entered  in  the
Book of Possessions. —W.H.W.]
H. 26.   William Kirkby.   [House and garden, with the lane
south-east, James Hawkins north,  Richard Sanford west.   This
lot seems to be in the curve of the street (Cambridge street), and
probably had J. Johnson on the east in part. —W.H.AV.]
H. 27.   James Hawkins.   [House and garden, with W. Kirkby
south, R. Sanford west.   No other bounds given east or north. —
W.H.W.]
H. 28.   Richard Parker.   [Apparently  not  recorded;  but  it
figures as the north bound of Sanford and Robert Meers.—W.H.W.]
H. 29.   Richard Sanford.   [House and lot  of about an acre,
 - 321 - 
114       City Document No. 46.
—
Part 2.
R. Parker north, J. Hawkins and W. Kirbj-  east, the street west,
and liohert Meers west.   Here are two ivest  bounds, and no soutli
line.   The street was probably south. —W.H.W.]
H. 30.   Robert Meers.   [His lot  No. 3, being half an acre in
the New Field, with li.  Parker north, J. Hawkins east, Tho. Scot-
tow south, Richard Meers west.   Here I suspect another error, as
Ricluird Meers does not elsewhere appear.   If it  be Robert, i.e.,
another lot of the same owner, I should surmise that IScottow's lot
was the same as Sanford's.   It seems that Thomas Scottow's will
mentions his  aged  mother Sanford ;      hence,  it  is  probable that
Scottow and Richard Sanford were brothers-in-law.   As Scottow
is not recorded as owning any lot here, it  seems more reasonable
to conclude that it  was the Sanford lot which was meant.  This
would bring Meers out to the  lane,  now Chardon street,  which
would close the description as nearly as can now be done.   The
following cut may represent the first  apportionment. —W.H.W.j
 - 322 - 
Appendix.                  115
H. 31.   Henry Pease.
H. 32.   Alexander Beck.   [These two lots are so laid down on
Lamb's map.  But Pease's lot is already located (11. 5) as on the
corner of Hanover and Portland streets.   Beck's lot  is  thus de-
scribed :         "A small parcel of land, first  granted for a houselot,
bounded with John Leverett  south, Henry Pease east,  a small
creek west, and the Cove north."  This apparently might as well
be down on Sudbury street, unless there be other reasons for giving
Pease another lot —unrecorded in the Book—in this vieinitv. —
W.H.W.]
H. 33.   George Burden.   [His lot  No. 3,  being in  the New
Field five and a half acres, with the marsh east, J. Mellows west,
R. Fairbanks north, and E. Jackson south. —W.H.W.]
LOTS 34  TO 51,  WEST OF CAMBRIDGE STREET, AND SOUTH
OF LEVERETT STREET, WITH THE WATER LINE.
H. 34.   David  Sellick.   [By the  terms of E. Jackson's lot,
it would seem that David SeUick owned a lot here ;    but it is not
recorded. —W.H.W.]
H. 35.   Edmund Jackson.   [His lot No. 2, being about three
acres in the NewField, with G. Burden north, Valentine Hill south,
D. Sellick east, R. Meers west. —W.H.W.]
H. 36,   Robert Meers.   [His lot No. 2, being two acres in the
New Field,  with  E.  Jackson  east,  R. Turner west, G. Burden
north, R. Cook south. —W.H.W.]
H. 37.   Robert Turner.   [Tlaere seems to be of necessity a lot
of Turner's here, between H. 35 and H. 37.   Probably he had it
of  Valentine  Hill,  though it   is  not recorded  in  the  Book. —
W.H.VV.]
H. 38.   William Davies the apothecary.   [His lot of four acres
in the New Field, bought of Valentine Hill, with Thomas Buttolph
south, James Pen north, R.  Turner east, John Biggs and James
Pen west. —W.H.VV.
]
H. 39.   John Biggs.
H. 40.   James Pen.
H. 41.   John Mellowes.   [These three lots seem to be required
bv the 1)oundaries of H. 33 and.H. 38, but are  not recorded.
—
W.H.W.]
Mr. Winsor's note is as follows :  —
a.  The present Cambridge street was laid  out in 1647, twelve
feet wide, through  Mr. Stougliton's ground at this point, " along
the rayle side," through Richard Cooke's and Thomas Buttolph's,
"to the  farder end of the  lots  to Tho. Munt's ground on the
farthest side."
b.  David  Sellick ;      sold  to  John  Leverett.   The  highway,
which at  this  point extended north and west, was eai-ly  called
Green lane ;   and there is a petition on file in the Cit}' Clerk's office,
March 10, 1734, asking that  it  may be paved, which gives many
of the chief abutters at that time.   c.  Edmund Jackson, 3 acres ;
afterwards Thomas Leverett.
 - 323 - 
116        City Document No. 46.
—
Part 2.
c7.   Robert Meeres, 2 acres.   Symon Lj'nde bought it in lfiG7-91
;
sold it  in 1718, to John Staniford, —then increased to six acres.
Staniibrd seems to have disposed of a part of it,  at least, b}- lot-
tery.   {Sewall Papers1   iW., 2'21 ',        Gleaner Articles^  No. 9.)   This
included the rising ground, where a windmill stood, near the pres-
ent West Church (Dr. Bartol's).   This ediOce was raised in 1736,
and the original structure is  shown in  the view of the  Battle of
Bunker Hill, given in the third volume of the Memorial History.
e.   Robert Turner.   Passed  later  to  Staniford.  /.  Valentine
Hill ;    sold, in 1648, to William Davis, 4 acres ;    then on his death,
1676, to his  son Benjamin, who convej^ed it  to his  mother (she
having married Edward Palmes), and they, in  1695, passed it to
Charles Chambers, who gave his name to the street now running
through the lot.    {Gleaner Articles, No. 10.)
g.  John Biggs, 1^ acre.   Marsh granted in 1641, west of North
Russell street.   His widow died in  1676, and the land coming to
her father, John Dasset, it was conveyed to James Allen, in 1696.
h.  Thomas Munt.
i.   James Penn.  In 1671 it  fell  by his  will  to James Allen,
his  nephew, who, later,  added lot  No. g, making a twenty-acre
farm.   He extended  Chambers  street  northerl}-.    "Gleaner"
thinks it certain that Allen thus owned a larger lot  in Boston than
any one else, excepting Blackstone.  _/.   Edward Gibbons.
7t.   AlexanderBeck, 1  acre, —a little marsh, " next Mr. Hough's
Point ;" and described a few years before, when Beck was allowed
to mow it,  as in the new field, " near the place where Mr. Hough
taffes boat."
H. 42.   Richard Fairbank.   [His lot  No. 3, being four acres
in  the New Field, with George Burden and Henry Pease south,
the river east, T. Oliver north, Isaac Addiugton, Alexander Beck,
and James Brown west. —W.H.W.]
H. 43.   Henr}' Pease.   [Lamb places Pease's lot on the marsh
at the point, crossing the end of the causeway which led over the
mill-pond. —W.H.W.]
H. 44.   Thomas Oliver.   [His lot No. 2, being one acre and a
half,  with R. Fairbanks south, the marsh west, R. Carter south,
as the description reads. —W.H.W.]
H. 45.   Richard Carter.   [Apparently, but the lot  is  not re-
corded. —AV.II.W.]
H. 46.   James Brown.  [His lot  No. 3, being half an acre in
the New Field with R. Fairbanks north, J. AUington (or Addiug-
ton) east, A. Beck west, Thomas Clark south. —W.H.W.]
H. 47.   Alexander Beck.   [His lot No. 2, being one acre in the
New Field with Thomas Munt east, the water north, E. Gibbons
south and west. —WH.W.]
H. 48.   Isaac Addiugton.   [This lot is necessitated by lots H.
42 and II. 46.   It is not on record. —W.H.W.]
H. 49.   Thomas Clarke.   [Not recorded, but mentioned in  H.
46. —W.H.W.]
H. 50.   Edward Gibbons.
H. 51.   Thomas Munt.   [These two lots are necessary, but not
well indicated.— W.Il.W.]
 - 324 - 
 - 325 - 
Map I,  OR  No. 9.
(118)
 - 326 - 
MAP I,  OR NO. 9,
COPFS HILL, OR THE MILL PIELD.
I. I.   Christopher Stanley's pasture, which extended west to
Salem street, and was defined on the other sides pretty nearly by
Charter, Hanover, and Prince streets.   He was a tailor, and left
b}'  will,  1G4G, the first  bequest to the town for  the  support of
schools.   (See N. E. Hist, and Geneal. Reg., Jan. 1850, p. 52.)
Stanle^-'s  widow, Susannah, married William Phillips,  who con-
firmed to her the house Stanley left her, " with the great pasture."
{Register, Oct., 1851 ,  p. 447.)  A northerly' part of this lot passed,
in 1G65, through Richard Burner, to John Hull, the mint-master;
and in 1683 he died, and his daughter Hannah and her husband,
Judge Sewall, conveyed Hull street, in 1701-5, to the town.
[The map line cuts off the southerly part of this  pasture, which
is shown on Map K, or No. 10. —W.H.W.]
I. 2.   Thomas Buttolph.   [Apparently his fifth  lot (see B. of
P., p. 42), " about half an acre, bounded with the causeway north-
east, William Cox {i.e., Copp) north-west, the marsh south-west..
He had other lands in Mill Field.   (See Map K.) —W.H.W.]
I. 3.   William Copp, shoemaker.  Asmall cove made in south
of him, with marsh stretching farther east.   In his will, in 1GG9, he
calls himself sick and weak ;     a cordwainer hy occupation ;    and he
leaves the enjoyment of the house to his wife, "• Gooddeth."  In
his  inventory his  house, out-houses, orchard, garden, and land
about the house are valued at £80.   (See also ISewall Papers, ii.,
408.)   Not far from this point, and taking part of the propei'ty of
the Gas Compan}', early in  the next century Joshua Gee had a
ship-3'ard, and he owned adjacent lands, which fell, in 1724, to his
son Ebenezer (d. 1730), and finally wholly to Rev. Joshua Gee,
who died in 1748, when the estate-was divided according to a docu-
ment which "Gleaner" calls  one of the most important in  the
Probate Office.
[He had a house and half an acre in the Mill field, with the
marsh south-west, Thomas Buttolph south-east, the river north-
west, John Button north-east.   Hence he had the corner lot. —
W.H.W.]
I. 4.   John Button.   [One acre, with Charles river north, the
marsh  south-west,  John  Shaw  north-east  and  south-east. —
W.H.W.]
I. 5.   John Shaw, who seems to have surrounded the wind-mill
lot.   There was a blutf here above the beach where the way run.
[His name is not among the possessors, but figures in the above
description of Button's abutters. —W.H.W.]
 - 327 - 
120        City Document No. 46. —Part 2.
I. 6.   The wind-mill lot.
I. 7.   Valentine Hill.   Here, at Hudson's Point, was the ferry
to Charlestown, and Francis Hudson, the ferryman, was allowed
to wharf out  here  in  1G52 "before  his  ground;" and Thomas
Broughton had a like privilege hereabout the same year ;   and when
this privilege was continued a year later,  the expression is "to
wharf or make a barrocadd before his  land at Center Haven."
Southerly from this  point, on the brow of the hill, the town pur-
chased of John Baker and Daniel Turrell, in 1G59, the beginning
of the present Copp's Hill Burning-ground, and in 1711 added a
part of Judge Sewall's  pasture, to the south-west.   (Shurtleff,
i)e.sc.  of Boston, p. 199 ;     Gleaner Articles, No. 14.)   Hull street
adjacent was not paved till  1735, when Edward Pell and other
abutters petitioned for leave to pave it.
I. 8.   Nicholas Parker, 2 acres ;     allowed to wharf out in 1651.
He had built a house here  before  1G46, when a footway was laid
out from it through the gardens to the " mill lane or street ;" and
along the shore, in 1650, " a wayof a rod broad" was laid out from
the l>attery to the ferry.   Well in from the shore in this lot, after
Salem and Charter streets were laid out, on the westerly corner of
them, there was a brick  house which Daniel Turrell and Samuel
Wakefield, with their wives, sold to Lady Phips in November, 1687.
Onl}^ a few daj's before Sewall records that news had come of her
husband being dubbed Sir William Phips at Windsor Castle.   The
Governor later added to the estate from adjacent lots.
[Parker had V. Hill north-west, the water north-east, T. But-
tolph south-west and south-east. —W.H.W.]
 - 328 - 
 - 329 - 
Map K,  or No. 10.
(122)
 - 330 - 
MAP K, OR NO. 10.
THE SOUTH-EASTEKLY PART OF COPP'S HILL,  FOLLOWING
THE LINE OF NORTH AND COMMERCIAL STREETS.
K. 00.   The remainder of Christopher Stanley's lot.   I.  1.
K. 0.   The remainder of Nicholas Parker's lot.   I. 8.
K. I.   Thomas Buttolph.   [Apparently' his lots  Nos. 3 and 4,
of 44 acres in the Mill-field, with the Bay north-east, N. Parker
and V. Hill north-west, C. Stanley south ;   also one acre compassed
by Stanley's ground. —W.H.W.]
Christopher Stanley in  1644 was allowed to wharf near Winnis-
simet ferry.   Along this water front there were various ship-yards
established later in the colonial and in the early provincial period.
They appear in Bonner's map in  1722. Captain William Green-
ough's yard was nearly opposite this lot.
K. 2.   Edward (or Edwin) Goodwin.   [House and half  an
acre, the Bay north-east, J.  Sweet south-east, T. Buttolph north-
west and south-west. —W.H.W.]
K. 3.   John Sweet.   [House and \l acres, with E. Goodwin
north-west, the Bay north-east, I. Grosse south-east, and C. Stanley
south-west.   Lamb's map makes Sweet's lot form two sides of a
square enclosing Merry, Grosse, and Seabury, the water making
the two other sides.   This seems necessitated by the description of
Grosse's two lots, which see K. 7. —W.H.W.]
John Sweet seems to  connect in  the rear with his other lot.
Perhaps this was the lot  Governor Bellingham was permitted to
wharf before, in 1648, "if it did not prejudice the battery," when
it was described as between Merry and William Winbourne ;     and
somewhere near was a house which Sampson Shore sold to Chris-
topher Lawson in 1646, when he wharfed out before it.
K. 4.   Isaac Grosse.   [Apparently his third lot, with the Baj''
east, John Sweet north, John Seaberry south, Walter Merry west.
—W.H.W.]
K. 5.   John Seabury.   [House and garden, about half an acre,
with Isaac Grosse north-west, the Bay north-east, W. Merry south-
east and south-west.   Winsor says this  was first  Merry's  land,
bought by Seabui-y in  1639, and then sold  " successively to John
Wilson and Alexander Adams in 1645, who was allowed, in 1646,
to wharfout, maintaining along the shore a highway for a cart." —
W.H.W.]
K. 6.  Walter Merry, ^ acre, who built " a roof over the highway
on the sea-bancke " to the annoyance of the selectmen ;     and when
Hanover street was extended in his rear, in 1644, he was allowed
the cost of fencing on that side.   He was ordered to keep a high-
 - 331 - 
124       City Document No. 46. —Part 2.
way open on the shore sixteen feet broad, in  1646, and sold the
property the same year to William Douglass, who in turn sold it to
Henry Brown, mariner, in 1648, with what is called Anker's shop.
The North Battery was built  out here in  1646, and repaired in
1656.
K. 7.   Isaac Grosse.   [His second lot, the Bay and John Sweet
north, W. Beamsley south, the way west.   Perhaps there was a
little bend or cove here, as otherwise we should call the Ba}^ east.
Although Lamb's map makes a way from Savage's corner east to
Sweet's  lot,  none  of  the  six  owners between bound westerly
on a way except Gross ;     but, curiously, nearly all  omit the  west
bounds. —W.H.W.]
In the provincial period not far from this  spot stood the Saluta-
tion Inn, which gave a name to an alley running by it,  connecting
Hanover with North street.    John Brooking owned it,  and his
widow sold it, in 1692, to Sir William Phips.   (Seioall Papers^ i.,
222.)  John ScoUay, hiring of Lady Phips in 1697, kept it.   Samuel
Green was the  host  in  1731.   It  became famous later,  when
William Campbell kept it,  in  1773, and it  was a rallying-place
for the patriots.
K. 8.   William Beamsley.   [House and house-lot of about half
an acre,  the Bay east,  I.  Grosse north and north-west,  Anne
Tuttle south and south-west. —W.H.W.]
K. 9.   Anne Tuttle.   [House and garden, with W. Beamsley
north, N. Bourne south, the Bay east, and — (probably the west
bound was left for farther search). —W.II.W,]
It was on the rear of this lot, on the lower corner of the present
Clark and Hanover streets, that the New North Church was built
in 1714, —a small wooden building, enlarged in 1730, and giving
place to the present edifice in 1802.   The land was then bought of
Colonel Thomas Hutchinson for £455.
K. 10.   Nehemiah Bourne, shipwright, who built here, in 1641,
the " Trial," the first large vessel built in Boston.  John Richards
was using this yard in 1688.   Bourne had come over in 1638 ;
pre-
viously living at Charlestown and Dorchester, had come to Boston
in 1641.   The "Trial" made her first voyage to the Azores and
West Indies under the command of Thomas Coitmore.  On her
next voyage,  to  Bilboa  and Malaga, she  was commanded by
Thomas Graves,  and  returned  to  Boston, March 23,  1643-44.
Bourne went again to England, and served as major of a regiment
in the Parliamentary army ;    but was once more in Boston in 1645,
returning to England the next year, and became rear-admiral in
the Parliament's navy.  There is  an account of Bourne in N. E.
Hist, and Geneal. Beg., Jan., 1873.
[His house and garden had Capt. Hawkins south, the Bay east,
Anne Tuttle north, " and on the north —," which last entry I sur-
mise was for north-west or west, and never filled out. —W.H.W.]
K. II.   Capt. Thomas Hawkins.  [Apparently the lot sold him
by Edward Bendall, 30th, llmo., 1650.   If  so,  it  began 40 feet
north from the lot that was R. Thompson's, and so to N. Bourne's,
running with Bourne's pales from the sea on the east to C. Stan-
ley's rails on the west, the south line being parallel. —W.H.W.]
 - 332 - 
Appendix.                  125
Hawkins is supposed to have built the house, which became later
the *' Ship Taveru," which stood till  186G.   John Vyal kept it in
1G63, and it is  associated with some stirring events.   Hawkins's
ship-yard was on the opposite water front,  and he built here, as
early as 1645, the ship " Seafort," of four hundred tons.   Haw-
kins's inventory is  given in N. E. Hist, and Geneal. Jieg.,  Oct.,
1855, p. 343.
K. 12.   Edward Bendall.   [His third lot,  with the Bay east,
Capt. Hawkins north, and Lieut. Savage south. —W.H.AV.J
Edward Bendall  sold  to  Anchor Ainsworth,  and subsequent
owners were Joseph Phippeni, 1647, George Mitchell, John Baker.
Baker's will is in N. E. Hist, and Geneal. Ef^g., April, 1861, p. 124.
The way along the shore from the dock to Gallop's Point had
been laid out "as it  is begun" in 1643, and in  1650 it  appears
that " the way formerly granted of a rod in breadth from Gallop's
Point to the Battery, being interrupted by Mrs. Hawkins her house,
it shall turn up from the water side through Mrs Hawkins her gar-
den, and soe  by Mr. Winthrop's house, between Major Borne's
house and his  garden, before Mr. Holiok's, to the Battery," —
marking some changes in ownership.
K. 13.   Thomas Savage.   [House and garden, with the Bay
east, C. Stanley west, E. Bendall north, and the lane south.   This
lane became Bennet street, and Scarlet's wharf was at its easterl}'
end. —W.H.W.]
This, or another house on the spot, became, later, the " King's
Head TaA^ern," which was burned in  1691, and rebuilt.   Drake
says that James Davenport kept it in 1755, and his widow in 1758
;
but in 1754, Davenport, who had kept the " Globe Tavern," peti-
tioned to keep the '• Bunch of Grapes," formerly known as " Castle
Tavern," near Scarlet's Wharf, which had been a licensed house
for forty or fifty years.   There is an account of Davenport in N.
E. Hist, and Geneal. Reg., 1879, p. 31.   A little wayfrom Bennet
street, on the northerly side (it is shown on Bonner's map), stood
the North Grammar School, erected in 1713.   Recompence Wads-
worth was the first  master ;    and there is  on the files of the city
clerk an interesting testimonial to his fidelit}', signed by Increase
Mather and other ministers of the town.
K. 14,   Edmund Grosse.  His ^will,  1655, is  given in  N. E.
Hist, and Geneal. Reg.. July, 1858, p.  273.   He sold  the lot to
John Anderson, shipwright, in 1647.   It  seems to have been on
this lot that Judge Edward Hutchinson later  built  him a  house,
which, late  in the  eighteenth centurj',  became the  '• North End
Coffee House."  It was opposite this point that the principal wharf
of the North End was later built, known first  as Clark's Wharf,
and subsequently  as  Hancock's, —Thomas Hancock being  the
principal proprietor.  [House lot, with the lane north, I. Cole south,
I.  Cullim.er west, the Bay east. —W.II.W.]
K. 15.   Samuel Cole,  house and garden; sold,  in  1645,  to
George Halsall, who, in 1646, had liberty ''to set down a causey
ten foot square, from his  wharfe to low-watter marke, and that
passingers shall come and goe free to it ;   "  and shortly after he
was permitted " to imploy a passag boatt betweene his wharfe and
 - 333 - 
126       City Document No. 46. —Part 2.
the ships wher the ships rid, and is to take a penny for each per-
son."
K. i6.   Isaac Cullimer had two lots, the other being K. 21.   [I
cannot reconcile myself to Lamb's method of marking out these
lots with the two of Thomas Joy, and one each of Richard Raw-
lins and Thomas Clark.   Without clear proof, I must doubt that
these six lots were cut into such extremely irregular forms, when
a  much simpler arrangement will  answer.   Cullimer's  east  lot
(No. 2 of his  Possessions), according to the Book, has the bny
south-east,  C. Stanley north-west, Stanley, S. Cole, and the wa}'
north-east, Clark and R. Rawlins south-west.   Hei-e I suspect a
mistake of " Rawlins " for '' Thomas Joy."  For Rawlins' lot (K.
18) has Joy (not Cullimer) on the north-east, and Joy's lot  (K.
17) has Rawlins south-west and Cullimer norlh-east.   Is  it  not
probable that the perambulator overlooked Joy's strip, which inter-
vened between Cullimer and Rawlins?—W.H.W.]
K. 17.   Thomas Joy.   [His second lot,  of one acre, bounds
with C.  Stanley north-west,  I.  Cullimer north-east,  R. Rawlins
south-west, Mr. Clarke south-east. —W.H.W.]
Upon this lot William Clark  (see the account of his family in
N. E. Hist,  and Geiieal.  Reg., 1879, pp.  19, 22G), a prominent
merchant of the provincial period, well known in  public affairs,
and not always fortunate in his private ventures, built and lived in
a house which became famous.  It stood fronting the square, very
nearly' where Prince street now comes into it,  on the easterly cor-
ner.   It was next the residence of Sir Charles Henry Frankland,
the royal collector of customs.   Further to  the  east, and occupy-
ing the  space intervening between the  converging streets,  was
the estate  on  which Thomas Hutchinson,  about 1710,  erected,
with its front on Garden court leading from the square, the sump-
tuous house in which the son. Governor Thomas Hutchinson, was
born and lived.   See Col.  Henry Lee's paper on these and other
old houses hereabouts, in Mass. Hist. Soc. Proceedings, Feb., 1881.
A view  of  the  Hutchinson house  is   given  in  the  American
Magazine, Vol. ii.
K. 18.   Richard Rawlins.   [House and garden of  1^  acres,
with C.  Stanley north-west, T. Joy north-east, Clarke south-east,
I.  Cullimer  south-west  (i.e.,  Cullimer's  west  lot,  K.  21).
—
W.H.W.]
Richard Rawlins, plasterer, probably bought of Peter Johnson,
the Dutchman, in 1638 ;     and when Hanover street was extended,
in 1644, it took a part of his corn-field behind his house, for which
he was compensated.  These had lands hereabout later:  Thomas
Clark,  Mark Hands,  Henry Lampray, Edward Breck,  William
Burnell, Henry Paine, George Dell,  Thomas Ryder. —some  of
them doubtless sharing in the breaking up of vStanley's pasture.
K. 19.   Thomas Clarke.   [Warehouse and house lot.   T. Jo}'
north-west, I.  Cullimer west (''.''.,   K. 21). L Cullimer north-east
(i.e., K. 16), and the Cove and T. Jov south {i.e., Jov's lot No. 1,
K. 20). —W.H.W.]
Thomas Clarke is called of Dorchester, merchant, when in 1644
he granted a part of his land to Christopher Stanley, which part is
 - 334 - 
Appendix.                  127
perhaps the identical " p'cell'of land l^ing neere to the water side,"
which  Stanley named in  his will, two years later, as a bequest,
" for the maintenance of the free schoole," and which the town in
1G49 sold to William Phillips, in  consideration of 13.s.  4(1.  " per
annum forever, to the  use of the scliole."'   This Thomas Clarke
was a  prominent merchant, and his  inventory, in  1(J78,  shows
various estates in Boston.  His shop goods are appraised at £75G ;
the  house  where  Elizabeth  Stevens  lives,  £300 ;     the  one  Mr.
Woodmausy lived in, £150 ;   orchard behind it, £100 ;   land at lower
end of the Common, £70 ;    the house occupied by his  son-in-law,
Thomas Baker, £75 ;     the house Edward Shippen lives in, £700.
K. 20.   Thomas Jo}'.   [One house and lot  of about half an
acre, and anotherhouse adjoining,with the Cove south-west, Thomas
Clarke north-west, north-east, and south-east.   Evidently just at
the bend of the Cove. —W.H.W.]
Thomas Joy, carpenter, is called of E[ingham, when, in 1648, he
bonded this estate to Major Savage, with its house, " near the new
meeting-house in Boston."   This second church is  usually con-
sidered as  built  two years later,  in  1650 ;     and in this  last  3'ear
a committee was appointed " to lay out the high wayes by the new
meetinge house."  Mention is  made of his  cellar  ''by the water
side," in 1642 ;     and in 1644, when it is said to be in  the highway'.
Perhaps this  became the  new house which, in  1647, he sold to
Bozoone Allen, of Hingham, with adjoining wharf.   Allen  calls
himself of Boston in his will, 1652.   (N. E. Hist, and Genecd. Reg.,
July, 1851, p. 299.)   Joy built the town-house, and in the final
settlement in January, 1661, he received £680.
K. 21.   Isaac Cullimer.  [Evidently his first lot, with C. Stanley
north-west, the Cove south-east, R. Rawlins north-ea't, F. Hudson
and B. Pasmer south-west.   It will be noticed that Stanley makes
the north-west boundar}' of Cullimer, Rawlins, J03', and Cullimer.
This was undoubtedly the line of the street, but whether at that
date it was more than a cart-track does not appear.   F. Hudson,
the next westerly owner on thb shore, bounds north-west on Wm.
Hudson, who here joins Stanley. —WII.W.]
K. 22.   Bartholomew Passmore.   [House and garden of about
a quarter of an acre, with Francis Hudson north-west, the Cove
south-east,  I.   Cullimer  north-east,  J.  Gallop  south-west. —
W.H.W.]
Passmore  sold  to  John Sweet in 1650.   It  was here, on  the
corner of North and Richmond streets, that Nicholas Upsall kept
the Red Lion Inn, and close here the devastating fire of Nov. 27,
1676, broke out in one Wakefield's house.   Upsall's will is given
in N. E. Hist, and Geneal. Reg., J»ly? 1861, p. 251 ;    and an ac-
count of him in Reg.., January, 1880.
K. 23.   Francis Hudson.   [House and garden of about half an
acre, with William Hudson, Sr., north-west, I. Cullimer north-east,
B. Passmore south-east, J. Gallop south-west. —W.H.W.]
K. 24.   John Gallop was fined in 1636 for obstructing the high-
way' on the sea-bank with his  " payles ;" allowed to wharf out in
1643; after his dcatli, his  widow Mehitabel, in 1649, conveyed a
part of  it  to  John Synderlaud.   He signed his will (printed in
 - 335 - 
128       City Document No. 46. —Part 2.
iV. E. Hist, and Geneal. Reg., Jul}',  1853, p.  227) b}'  his mark.
About on the Hne of this estate, a passage from the water front to
the present Hanover street was opened, and in  Bonner's map,
1722, is  marked as  Wood lane,  the  modern Richmond street.
Near the present northerly corner on Hanover street,  the New
Brick Church was built in  1721, and stood till  it  was rebuilt  in
1845.
[Gallop had "the way" north-west. —W.H.W.]
K. 25.  Matthew Chaflfie, ship-carpenter, house and garden ;   sold
in part to John Capen, of Dorchester, in 1G49.   Chaflie's lot ex-
tended back to what was the end of Hanover street in 1643, when
it was ordered that the AVii}-  be continued further, two rods broad,
" from the west corner of Matthew Chafeth's garden unto the little
howse by the swamp," which Christopher Stanley had just bought
of the town, " and from thence to the windmill as directl}' as the
land will beare."
[Chaffie had Sampson Shoare south-west, and Thomas Meekins
north-west. —W.H.W.]
K. 26.   William Hudson, Sr.,  5 aci*es ;     sold to Thomas But-
tolph, who again, in 1G4G, sold to Christopher Lawson, and Law-
son sold it in part to William Phillips, who granted his purchase to
his wife Susan for life ;   and the rest was broken up into small lots,
Richard Bennett and others holding it,
K. 27.   Thomas Meekins.  [Mentioned as an owner in Chaffie's
record, but there seems to be no farther description. —W.H.W.]
Thomas Meekins hereabout.   Beer lane was later cut through
this  region, and in 1735 Samuel Turrell and other abutters  peti-
tioned to have it paved.   It is the present Parmenter street.
 - 336 - 
INDEX.
Abbott, 95.
Adams, 5, 70, 77, 123.
Addington, 23, 116.
Ainsworth, 21,41, 125.
Albanj', 99.
Albion, The, 69.
Albion Building, 75.
Aleock, 33.
Allen, 81,95, 116,127.
Alline, 80, 107.
Allington, 15, 116.
Allison, 45.
Allistre, 40, 90.
Amory, 65, 69, 80, 97.
Anchor, 41, 46.
Ankor, 41.
Anderson, 9, 12, 42, 125.
Andros, 15, 93.
Angier, 14, 83.
Anker, 124.
Arnold, 8, 63, 91.
fAspinwal, 1.
j Asplnwall,2, 5,  6,  8,  12, 13, 14, 16, 17, 19,
I
20, -.'],  21, 24, 26, 27, 28, 29, 30, 31, 33, 35.
I   37, 42, 45, 46, 47, 78, 83, 84, 89, 104.
Astwood, 28.
Atkinson, 77, 83.
Aubrey, 90.
Azores, The, 124.
Back Bay, 61.
S
Bailey, 95.
/  Bayley, 102.
Baker, 46, 47, 63, 107, 120, 125. 127.
(  Balston, 64, 96, 107.
}  Buulston, 17.
Bannister, 71.
Bannister's Garden, 71.
Barker, 30, 100.
Barlow, 11.
Barren, 18, 19, 93.
Bartol, 116.
Baster, 46.
Bateman, 35, 87.
Bates, 13, 18, 23, 79,93.
Battery, 125.
Baulston, see Balston.
Baxter, 38, 77.
Bay The, 1, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 15, 21, 22, 29, 34,
37,38,46,47,64,77,123,124,125,126
Bayley, see Bailey.
Beach, The, 67.
Beamont, 44.
Bearasley, 7, 22, 25, 31, 70, 71, 124
j
Beck, 14, 15, 23, 25, 97, 113,
115, 116.
/  Becke, 1.
Beek, 14.
(   Bel, 35.
i  Bell, 39, 80.
(  Bolchar, 38, 34.
)  Belcher, 33, 61, 63, 65, 100, 110.
Bellingham, 1,  3, 9,  10, 12, 14, 16, 19, 20  28
123
'^^'  *^' ^^' ^^' ^^' ^^' ^^' ^^' ^^>  ^^'^''
Bendall, 2,  3,  8, 13, 16, 20, 21, 22, 47, 48. 94.
97, 104, 106, 111, 124, 125.
\  Bennet, 7, 16, 46.
I  Bennett, 128.
Biggs, 1,  7,  14, 15, 25, 44, 46, 71, 96, 97, 115,
116.
Bilboa, 124.
Bill, 92.
Billingbam, 19.
Billings, 95.
(  Bishop, 21, 28, 36, 41, 47, 76, 107, 109.
}  Bishopp, 36.
Bishop Alley, 76, 80.
Blackborne, 83.
I  Blackston, 71.
I  Blackstone, 70, 76, 116.
Blake, 95.
j  Blanlain, 65.
}  Blantainc, 35, 37, 39, 80, 82.
Blanton, 65.
(   Blot, 32.
I  Blott, 32, 85.
Blue Anchor, 102.
Blue Ball Estate, 109.
Blue Bell, 107.
Borasted, 30, 47.
Bonner, 70, 77, 87.
Boone, 102.
Borland, 95, 101, 109, 111.
Borman, 95.
Borne, 125.
Boston Common, 59, 67.
Courier, 71.
Museum, 99.
Neck, 16.
Theatre, 79.
Bosworth, 5,  7,  13, 15, 23, 25, 28, 29. 30, 31.
70,71,84,85,91.
Bourne, 7, 8, 34, 61, 87, 124.
Boutineau, 76.
Bowditch, 69, 112.
Bowdoin, 70, 112.
Bowen, 19, 35, 87.
Koyce, 95.
Boylston,95.
(  Bracket, 70.
)  Brackett, 24.
Bradstrcet, 91.
Braintree, 5,  6, 7, 8, 9, 15, 18, 19, 21, 29, 31.
61,86.
Brattle, 96.
Brazier's Building, 98.
Breck, 126.
Bridge, The, 90, 91, 107.
Little, 91.
Mill, 90.
Swing, 95, 106.
Bridgham, 26, 27, 83, 101.
Brightman's Pasture, 80.
Brimmer, 112.
<  Brisco, 33, 34, 35, 62, 63, 65.
/  Briscoe, 63, 65.
Bristol, 76.
Bromer, 80.
Bromfield, 63, 83, 95.
House, 83.
Brorasdon, 95.
Brooking, 124.
Brooks, 95.
 - 337 - 
130       City Document No. 46.
—
Part 2.
Broughton, 120.
I  Brown, 5, 14, 43, 69, 77, 97, 116.
I  Browne, 1, 5, 9, 14, 23, 29, 38, 43, 45.
Bulfinch, 113.
Billiard, tio.
Bumstoad, 103.
Burden, 3, 4, 7, 13, 17, 18, 21, 23, 32, 34, 85, 86,
93, 94, 115, 116.
Burgiss, 71.
Burnam, 47.
Burnell, 126.
Burnet, 85.
Burying Ground, The, 75.
Copp's mil, 120.
Place, The, 20, 25, 69.
Granary, 84.
King's Chapel, 99.
Busbic, 40, 83.
Bushwell, 17, 20.
fBultall, 67.
Butlolfe, 65.
I Buttolph, 2, 5,  14, 15, 22, 25, 28, 33, 35, 39,
I
44, 46, 72, 86, 87, 91, 96, 97, 115, 119, 120,
I   123, 128.
Button, 5, 15, 18, 19, 45, 47, 91, 93, 119.
Byles, 65.
Bynner, 89.
C.
Calef, 101.
Cambridge, 2, 35, 64, 70, 103.
Campbell, 124.
Capen, 128.
Carter, 4, 14, 32, 33, 42, 44, 86, 116.
Gary, 109.
Castle Island, 38.
(  Causeway, The, 16.
I  Cawsov, The, 15.
(;edar Swamp, 7, 25, 30, 33.
Center llaven, 120.
Chafeth, 128.
(Chatte, 11.
J Chaffle, 5, 11, 12, 89, 128.
I Chatty, 5,
'Chamberlain, 86.
Chamberlaine, 42, 44.
Chanibcrlin, 86.
.Cliamberlyn,92,
Chambers, 116.
Change Avenue, 104, 106.
Chaniiing, 79.
ChapKaine, 33.
I  Chappel,31,70, 110.
}  Chappcll, 11, 12, 70, 86.
Charlestown, 15, 16, 28, 80, 91, 98, 103, 120,
124.
Checkley, 95.
Chcevcr, 8, 75, 91.
Church, 80.
Church of Boston, 59.
Brattle square, 109.
Brattle St., 98.
First, 69, 75,80,81,112.
French, 82.
Green, 7H.
Manifesto, 96.
Mount Vernon, 111, 113.
New Brick, 128.
"  North, 124.
"  South, 78.
of the Saviour, 80.
Old South, 75.
Park St., 84.
Second, 89.
"    Baptist, 91.
Third, 75.
Trinity, 80.
West, 116.
City Hall, 95.
Clapton, 101.
{Clark, 10, 15, 16, 46, 65, 111, 116, 126.
Clarke, 7, 9, 10,  11, 12, 16,  17, 22, 25, 31,
32, 43. 44, 59, 63, 65, 71, 72, 85, 89, 116,
126, 127.
Clerk, 5.
Clough, 63.
Coales, 29.
Coal's Garden, 87.
Coddiiigton, 90.
Collin, 69, ilo,  100.
)  Cogan, 69, 75, 103, 106.
(  Coggan, 1, 3, 5, 7, 19, 41, 69.
Coitmore, 103, 124.
fColborn, 59, 61,65.
I
Colborne, 26, 33, 34, 63, 64, 65.
J
Colbourne, 23, 65.
1 Colbron,61,62, 65.
Colcborne,33, 65, 86.
I   Coleburne, 63.
Colo, 5, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, 28, 35, 87, 94, 106, 110,
111,125,126.
Colman, 95.
Colson, 95.
"   Stone House, 96.
{Common, The, 2, 23, 32, 33, 34, 59, 61, 62,
6), 64, 65, 67, 69, 70, 76, 83, 84, 85, 86, 127.
Coinon, The, 2, 6, 7,  14, 17, 24, 25, 28, 29,
30, 31, 32, 33, 34, 35, 37, 42, 44.
Common landing place, 94.
Comon Rocky, 5, 29.
Compton, 20, 27, 107.
Conduit, 92.
Coney, 110.
( Cook, 19, 64, 84, 115.
I  Cooke, 9, 13, 15, 19, 22, 23, 29, 30, 31, 42, 72,
/         75, 83, 84, 85, 115.
Cooper, 109.
Copley, 71, 81.
Copp, 5,91, 119.
Cornell, 86, 96.
I  Cornewell, 17.
I  Cornwall, 96.
Cornhill, 97, 98, 111.
Cornish, 65.
Corser, 24, 92, 102, 106.
Cosin,43.
Cosser, 102.
Costin, 81.
Cotton, 1, 3, 21, 97, 111, 112.
County Court, 59.
County of Essex, 11.
County of Suilblk, 64.
Courser, 3, 4, 24, 106.
Court Generall, 22.
Square, 98.
Cove, The, 1, 2, 3, 5, 6,  7, 8, 9,  10, 11,  12, 14,
15, 18,  19, 20, 21,  22,  23, 26, 27, 34,
38,40,42, 43,44, 45, 77, 78, 85, 87, 89,
91, 92, 93, 94, 101, 103, 104, 108, 107,
113, 115, 118, 126, 127.
Fisher's, 1.
Great, 47.
Mylne, 89.
South, 77.
Cowell, 81.
Cox, 15, 91, 119.
Craden, 85.
Cradock, 69, 85, 97.
Cranch, 83.
Cranwell, 33, 34, 63, 64.
Creek Great, 59.
Mill, 4, 10, 20, 45, 89, 90, 93, 101.
Creeke, The, 10, 77, 101.
iCritchlev, 26, 97.
Croychelv, 20, U.
Cro'ychley, 26, 64, 65, 97.
Crychley, 25.
Crosse, 34.
Crown Coffee House, 104.
Cuddington, .35, 86, 87.
Cullimer, 9, 10, 11, 16, 125, 126, 127.
Cullimore, 6.
Cushing, 95.
Custom-house, 104.
 - 338 - 
Index.                     131
I>.
Dane, 2, 12.
Dant'orth, 112.
])assct, 116.
Davenport, 112, 125.
Davics, 4, 5, 6, 7, 22, 23, 29. 30, 35, 39, 46, 65,
77,  80, 91, 98,  100, 101, 103, 104, 109, 110,
115.
Davis, 15, 72, 83, 86, 112, 116.
Doane, 112.
Deblois, 69,97.
Dedham, 2, 33.
Dell, 126.
Dcming, 26, 37, 78, 79.
Dennis, 29, 30, 31, 40, 42, 71, 83, 93.
Devotion, 34.
Dii?ges, 7.
j  Dineley, 26.
jDinely, 04, 65, 97,98.
Dinsdalo, 27, 76.
Ditch, The, 3.
Dock, 3, 19, 39, 94, 106.
Dock Square, 96, 104, 106.
Dorchester, 16, 89, 93, 109, 111, 124, 126, 128.
Doty, 86.
(   Douglas, 45, 46.
i  Douglass, lu9, 124.
Dover, 31, 98, 112.
Downe, 63.
Downing, 17.
Dowse, 3, 18, 92, 94.
Drake, 65, 86, 97, 98, 100, 101, 102, 109, 110,
111, 125.
Drawbridge, The, 92.
Drown, 116.
Drownc, 83, 116.
Drury, 107.
Dudley, 82.
J
Dumer, 119.
j  Dummer, 100.
Duncan, 102.
Dunster, 3, 15, 96.
Dunton, 102.
E.
East, 22, 36, 70, 81.
I  Eaten, 22.
)  Eaton, 25, 30, 36, 45, 70, 81.
Edes, 95, 97.
Eldred,47.
Eliot, 22, 25, 26, 33, 34, 59, 63, 64, 65, 69.
Emmanuel College, 70.
(  Endicot, 43.
(  Endicott, 93, 111.
England, 70, 83, 104, 124.
Engles, 37, 79.
English, 82.
Erving, 69, 112.
Essex County, 11.
Eveans, 14.
Evered, 1.
I Evcrell, 9.
\ Everill, 6, 9, 14, 18, 19,  24, 28, 31, 32, 45,
(     71, 92, 93, 94, 104, 110.
Exchange Building, 100.
( Fairbank, 116.
{ Fairbanks, 76, 77, 79, 83, 84, 85, 102, 115.
( Fairebanks, 3, 4, 15, 17, 23, 27, 28, 29.
Fane, 3, 13, 35, 113.
Fancuil, 76, 98, 104, 112.
Farnham, 6.
Faulconer, 5.
Fawer, 44,  89.
Fayerweathcr, 69, 95.
Ferry, The, 91.
Field Gentry, 30, 72.
Fort, 23, 77.
Will, 5, 7, 10, 18, 28, 39, 46, 119, 123.
Wilne, 15.
New, 3, 4, 7, 13, 14,  15, 17, 18,  20,  22,
23, 25, 28, 29, 30, 31, 46, 69, 70,  71,
72, 82, 91, 113, 114, 115, 116.
Fippennys, 43.
Fish, 6, 7, 91.
Fisher, 61.
Fish shop, 95.
Fitch, 03.
I  Flack, 61, 63, 65.
I  Flack0, 32, 33, 63.
Flats, 104.
Fleet, 102.
Fletcher, 28, 36, 37, 40, 43, 45, 47, 76, 81, 111.
Flint, 32, 85.
Fort, The, 38, 77, 79, 107.
Foster, 8, 38, 39, 43, 44, 63, 78, SI.
Fowie, 2, 15, 33, 86, 87.
Foxcroft, 20, 21, 106.
Fox Hill, 64.
fFrancklin, 43.
Franckling, 43.
< Francklyn,43.
I
Franklin, 3, 14, 20, 76, 92, 94, 97, 103, 106,
L   109.
Frankland, 126.
Franklin Avenue, 97.
Frary, 63, 64, 65.
Freeman Place, 69.
Friend, 104.
G.
Gallop, 11, 12, 29, 127, 128.
Gallop's Point, 125.
Garcelon's Stable, 87.
Garden, 86.
Court, 126.
Gas Company, 119.
Gee, 119.
( Gibbons, 78, 106, 110, 116.
I Gibones, 2,' 3, 6, 14, 20, 106.
(  Gibons, 2.
Gibbs, 77, 95.
Wharf, 77.
Gibson, 5.
Gill, 95, 97.
I  Gillam, 78, 79.
i  Gillom, 26, 27, 37,
107.
Glover, 3, 17, 94.
Goelct's Journal, 100.
Goodwin, 5, 6, 123.
Gooch, 104.
Gore, 11.
Goultrop, 19.
Gover, 4.
Granary Burying Ground, 74, 84, 94.
Graves, 124.
Gray, 77.
Grcames, 3, 17, 94.
(Green, 75,95,104,110,124.
)  Greene, The, 27, 101,
112.
Greenough, 123,
Gridley, 22, 24, 33, ?,7, 38, 77.
Griggs, 8, 35, 39, 43, 61, 80, 81.
f  Grose, 41, 112.
\ Gross, 124.
(  Grosse, 6, 7, 9, 22, 104, 106, 123, 124, 125.
Grubb, 7, 25, 29, 30, 83, 85.
Gullison,96.
Gunnison, 3, 17, 94, 96.
I  riailestonc, 40.
)  U.ailstonc, 43, 81.
Haley, 112.
Uall, Bridgman,95.
City, 75, 95, 99.
Concert, 97.
Faneuil, 83.
Memorial, 81.
H.
 - 339 - 
132        City Document No. 46.
—
Part 2.
Halsall, 42, 125.
Hammond, 112.
Hancock, 95, 98, 100, 106, 125.
Hands, 126.
Hannas, 95.
Hanset, 41.
Hansett, 41, 76.
\  [larkar, 85.
iHarker, 7,32, 85.
Harris, 112.
Harrison, 37, 38, 77.
Harrison Ave., 87.
(  Harvard, 94, 95, 101.
i  Harvard College, 81.
Harwood, 21.
Hassam, 71, 75, 94, 96, 107.
Haugh, 2, 27, 29, 30, 38, 44, 85, 101.
Uawes, 6.
Hawehton, 12.
Hawkins, 3, 7, 8, 12, 13, 14, 15, 16, 19, 21, 25,
44, 47, 90, 91, 96, 97, 109, 113, 114, 124, 125.
Hayward, 28, 92.
Henchman,75,98, 102, 111.
Hcnshaw, 100.
Heraldic Journal, 81.
(  [libbens, 23, 77, 101.
\  Hibbins, 2, 22, 25, 26, 27, 32, 34, 35, 43, 44,
/         59, 76, 101, 107.
Highway, The, 1,  3,  4, 8.9, 10, 11, 12, 15, 16,
19  21, 22, 23, 34, 40, 43, 45, 47, 59, 63,  67,
79, 81, 87, 89, 90, 100, 104, 110, 123, 127.
Highway Cross, 110.
Old, 91.
Hill  1,  4, 6, 7, 9,10, 11, 12, 13, 14, 15, 20, 21,
•i-i   94  2J, 28, 29, 31, 39, 41, 44, 45, 46, 47,
72' 89, 90, 91, 92, 96, 97, 98, 104, 106, 107,
112, 113, 116, 120, 123.
Hill Beacon, 99, 112.
Bunker, 116.
Gentry, 3.
Copp's, 119, 123.
Cotton, 96.
Fort, 22, 27, 59, 77, lOT.
Fox, 64, 67,
Mil, 16.
Hill Mill, 91.
Hingham, 127.
\  Hogg, 22, 36, 37, 45, 80, 81, 82.
i
Hogge, 36.
Hogg Island, 30.
Holbrook, 100.
j
Holiok, 125.
I  llolyoke, 78.
I  Hollicb, 37, 39, 80.
)  Hollick, 80.
Hollidge, 80.
Hollinghead, 80.
Holloway, 87.
Holmes, 100.
Hough, 76, 82.
Hough's Point, 116.
House American, 110.
Court, 98.
Julien, 101.
State, 102.
Houtchin, 13, 18, 40, 93, 94, 111, 113.
Hovey, 80.
Howen, 4, 13, 18, 59, 112.
Hubbard, 81, 95.
Hudson, 3, 10, 11, 12, 13, 15, 17, 19, 22, 23, 28,
29, 36, 37, 42, 45, 70, 71, 72, 76, 78, 79, 80,
81, 86, 94, 97, 99, 100, 102, 120, 127, 128.
Hudson's Point, 120.
Hull, 8, 35, 36, 82, 91, 107, 111, 119.
Hunne, 3, 4, 9, 18, 19, 40, 93, 113.
Hunt, 19, 85.
Hurd, 35, 36, 82.                         ^   ^^  ^^
Hutchinson, 4, 15, 21, 25, 26, 27, 30, 75, 95, 96,
98, 99, 107, 124, 125, 126.
Indian Queen Tavern, 83.
Indians, George, 47.
Indians, Great David, 47.
Hawkins, 47.
John, 47.
Rouley, 47.
Tommequiu, 47.
John Wampus,
Ingersoll, 100.
Inn Orange Tree, 110.
Red Lion, 127.
Salutation, 124.
Seven Star, 80.
Starr, 91.
Ipswich, 80, 101.
j  Irons, 77.
I
lyons, 38, 77.
Jacklin, 31, 37, 40, 42, 83, 84.
Jackson, 4, 5, 7, 8, 13, 17,  19,  37, 41, 91, 95,
1U3, 110, 112, 115.
fJeffery. 95.
J
Jeffrey, 112.
>  Jeffries. 69.
Jeffries, 69.
{ Jeoffreys, 16.
Jekyll, 111.
I  Jephson, 41.
i  Jepson, 41.
Johnson, 6, 7, 15, 17, 29, 32, 71, 72, 85, 86, 91,
107, 109, 110, 113, 114, 126.
Johonnot, 79, 81,109.
Jonies, 47.
Jones, 47.
Joy, 9, 10, 98, 126, 127.
Joy's Building, 98.
Joyliffo, 101.
Judkin, 19, 36, 82.
K.
iKoaine, 38.
Keano, 44.
Keayne, 3, 4, 76, 79, 99, 102.
Keine, 23, 24, 27,37.
iKendrick, 76.
Kenrick, 27, 28, 76, 79.
Kenrickc, 4.
Kerr, 1U9.
Kidby, 90.
Kidder, 109.
Kilby, 100.
King's Chapel, 75.
Kinrick, 91.
Kinsley, 84.
I  Kirby, 12. 13, 114.
)  Kirkby, 13, 69, 113, 114.
Kittery,"96.
Kneeland, 97.
Knight, 3, 9, 10, 17, 41, 42, 90, 94.
Knox, 102.
Lake, 36, 39, 40, 45, 61, 82, 111.
Lamb, 14, 59. 70, 84, 86, 87, S3, 91, 106, 113,
115, llii, 123, 124, 126.
Lampray, 126.
Lane, Boer, 128.
Belcher's, 77.
Blind, 78.
Bromtield's, 83.
Coney's, 89.
Frog, 64.
Gibbs, 77.
Green. 115.
Green Dragon, 109.
Hudson's, 94.
Joyliffe, 101.
Long, 79.
Mackerel, 100.
Mill, 82, 120.
Paddy's, 90.
 - 340 - 
Index.                     133
Lane, Pudding, 100.
Rainsford's, 87.
Kawson's, 83.
Snow's, 61.
Southack's, 111.
Spring, 101, 102.
Wilson's, 103.
Wood, 128.
Langdon, 47.
Lawson, 15, 16, 21, 22, 39, 92, 123, 128.
( Leager, 65, 79.
I
Leaguer, 15.
( Leger, 2, 23, 31, 32, 33, 35, 61, 70, 86, 87.
j  Leatberland, 77.
}  Lothcrland, 38.
Lcblond, 112.
Lee, 126.
Leech, 42.
{Leveret, 4.
Leverett, 48, 64, 67, 76, 82, 85, 86, 90, 98, 99,
100, 101, 103, 106, 110, 113, 115.
Leverit, 4, 5, 6, 7, 12, 14, 19, 20, 23, 24, 27,
32, 40.
Leveritt, 11, 100.
Lcyer, 70.
Liberty Square, 107.
Liberty Tree, 87.
Lillie, 65.
Limehouse, 45.
Lindall, 101.
I  Lippincot, 43.
}  Lippincott, 81.
Lloyd, 111.
London, 40, 44, 64, 85, 98, 100, 111.
Long, 21, 39.
Long Acre, 84.
Louisburg Square, 70.
Lovcll, 75.
j  Low, 10.
}  Lowe, 1, 14, 90, 92, 94.
Lowes, 39.
Loyall, 7, 29, 85.
Ludkin, 40.
Lugg, 23, 29, 84, 85.
LyaU, 39.
Lyde, 93.
Lyle, 2, 30, 44, 71, 72, 83, 85.
Lyman, 113.
Lynde, 113, 118.
Lynn, 100.
M.
Mainard, 19.
Makepeace, 13, 18, 93, 98, 111.
Malaga, 124.
Mandesley, 92.
Mancr, 78.
j   Marion, 63.
}  Maryon, 80.
Market-place, 5, 23, 98, 99.
I  Market-stead, 99.
(  Market-steed, 7, 24, 41.
Marrett, 64.
Marshall, 3, 4, 9, 10, 36, 37, 41, 45, 80, 82, 90.
Marsh Common, 1, 21.
Marsh Rumney, 7, 28.
Marsh, The, 3, 4, 5, 7, 10, 14,  15,  17, 18,  23,
26, 27, 34, 39, 43,59, 64,81, 87, 90,92, 101,
-   107, 115, 116, 119.
Marsh, The, Mill-field, 3.
Marsh, Towns, 92.
Martin, 24.
Maryon, see Marion.
Mascarene, 75.
Mason, 19, 23, 32, 85, 112.
Massachusetts, 40.
Mass. CoUony, 48.
Mather, 111, 125.
( Mattock, 90, 103.
{ Mattocks, 44.
( Mattox, 44.
J
Maud, 3, 29, 31, 42, 83, 84, 97, 112.
) Maude, 1, 3.
Maudesley, 92.
Mauer, 78.
Maverick, 95.
I  Meekins, 128.
\  Mekins, 11.
)  Meeres, 4, 13, 26.
I  Mcers, 21, 82, 112, 113, 114, 115, 116.
Meeting-House, 24, 25, 28, 79, 91, 98.
Mein, 104.
(  Mellowes, 4, 5, 7, 9, 11, 15, 17, 19, 29, 115.
/  Mellows, 70, 110, 115.
Merchant's Row, 92, 104, 106.
Merry, 6, 22, 46, 123.
J
Messenger, 69, 99.
I  Messinger, 14, 25, 26.
Metson, 31.
Michell, 47.
Middlecott, 112.
Milland, 26.
Millar, 95.
Millard, 25, 29, 30, 31, 70, 71, 83,85,
Mill damme, 29.
Mill lane, The, 36, 120.
Millne, The, 3.
Mill, The, 4, 20.
( Milora, 2, 4, 6, 9, 10, 11, 12, 20, 22,  42, 45,
{      89, 90.
( Mylom, 89, 90.
Mill Pond, 109, 110, 116.
Mills, 2.
Mill-streame, 4, 20,
Mitchell, 125.
Monck, 102.
Monotacut, 19.
Morse, 82, 98.
Moss, 98.
Mount, The, 6, 38.
Mount Vernon Proprietors, 71.
MountWollaston, 64.
Mount Woollaston, 38, 44,
Mumford, 96.
Mun, 114.
Munt, 8, 14, 38, 78, 115, 116.
Myles, 69.
N".
Nanney, 39, 40, 90, 92.
J
Nasb, 2, 20, 21, 45, 90, 106, 110.
I  Nashe, 94.
Negoos, 37, 38, 43, 78, 79.
Netherland, 38.
(  Newberry, 11.
(  Newbury, 11.
New England, 11, 24, 25, 48, 90, 124, 125.
NewEngland Courant, 97.
Newgate, 3, 13, 28, 40, 83, 106, 113,
Newgrove, 46.
New Hampshire, 98, 112.
Newmeeting-house, 20, 127.
New Mylne, 91.
New State House, 99.
New York, 100.
Noddle's Island, 106.
North Battery, The, 124,
North End, 125.
North End Coffee House, 125.
Norton, 75.
Nova Scotia, 75,
(  Nowel, 43,
}  Nowell, 103,
Noyes, 95.
Nutter, 31,
Odlin, 35, 87,
Offley, 34, 87.
Old Corner Book Store, 98.
Old Feather Store, 92.
Old Meetin? House, 4, 23, 100.
Old SUte liouse, 99
 - 341 - 
134       City Docibient No. 46.
—
Part 2.
r Oliver, 2, 3, 9, 11, 15, 21, 23, 24, 32, 37, 39,
41, 47, 59, 61, 6^, 67, 76, 79, 82, 86, 90,
I
lOJ, 101, 102, 104, 116.
[Ollivci-, 4.
Olivui's Dock, 102.
Ormsbie, 30.
Otis, 98.
Oxcnbridge, 69.
Oxnard, 84.
Paddock, 84.
Paddy, 90.
Page, 41, 76.
Paige, 79.
Paine, 43, 126.
Painter, 18, 19, 32, 40, 43, 45, 67, 85, 93.
Palmer,36,37, 79, 80, 82.
Palmer's Warehouse, 95.
Palmes, 110.
Parker, 4, 13, 15, 20, 22, 23, 24, 25, 26, 28, 30,
31, 33, 37, 39, 41, 42, 64, 70, 71, 76, 79, 84,
91, 98, lOJ, 1 13, 114, 120, 15^3.
Parliamentary Army, 83.
Parsons, 4, 23, 3-', lul.
Pasmer, 10, 11, 127.
Passmore, 127.
Pasture, Middlccott, 112.
ISewall's, 120.
Soulhack's, 111.
Stanley's, 119, 126.
The great, 119.
Pease, 6, 14, 1<J, 23, 43, 110, 113, 115, 116.
Peirce, see Pierce.
Pell, 3, 27, 69, 76, 79, 120.
Pelton, 34, 87.
Pemberton, 95, 112.
Pembcrton gq., 112.
Pen, 4, 15, 2J, 27, 28, 46, 69, 115.
Penn, 59, 09, 76, 79, 1U7, 116.
Penniman, 13.
Pepes, 31,32, 33.
PepperroU, 79.
Pepys, 70, 71.
Perry, 2, 23, 26, 27, 29, 30, 32, 40, 44, 47, 83,
84,85,90.
Phear, 70.
Phillips, 7. 16, 20, 43, 45, 46, 47, 89, 102, 103,
112, 119, 127, 128.
(  Phippeni, 3, 11, 41, 46, 47, 125.
I  Phippeny, 90.
Phips, 120, 124.
i  Pierce, 1, 9, 10, 15, 21, 22, 41, 42, 90, 104, 106.
j  Peirce, 90.
Pitts, 95.
Place, Baldwin, 91.
Chauncy, 80.
Exchange, 100.
Hamilton, 84.
Kowe, 87.
Platform, 95.
Piatt, 61.
Plimley, 31.
Point Windmill, 78.
Pollard, 70.
Pond, Mill, 2.
Pond, The, 81.
Pond, Wheeler's, 82.
Pope, 29, 30, 31, 37, 42, 83.
(  Pormort, 45.
}   I'ortmort, 19.
Porter, 24, 28, 38, 77, 78, 92.
Post Office, New, 102.
Powell, 24.
Prescott, 80.
Prince, 75.
Prison Grarden, 25, 98.
Prison Yard, 24, 25, 98.
Prison, The, 26.
Province House, 83, 85.
Public Garden, 67.
Granary, 84.
(  Pullen poynt, 1,
)  Pulling point, 15.
Purton, 30, 37, 82.
B.
Rainsford, 34, 87.
Rand, 95.
Randall, 9.3.
Rashley, 41.
Rawlins, 10, 16, 47, 126, 127.
Rawson, 25, 43, 83, 95.
(  Reading, 35, 87.
}  Readinge, 35.
Reed, 112.
4  Reinolds, 21. 28, 36, 37, 41, 45.
i  Reynolds, 41, 76.
Revere House, 113.
Rhode Island, 70,76,98.
Rice, 3, 27, 76, 79.
Richards, 124.
Richardson, 22, 36, 37, 45,79,80, 81, 82,  84,
107.
Right, 95.
River, Charles, 2, 18, 25, 119.
Merriraaok, 11.
Monotacut, 19.
Monotaquid, 7.
Monotaquit, 5, 9, 15, 29.
Monotoquit, 9.
Muddy, 2, 7, 14, 18, 25, 30, 31, 32, 33,
34, 35.
Newbury, 11.
The, 5, 7, 15, 16, 20, 23, 32, 46, 71, 116,
119.
Roberts, 28.
Robinson, 101.
Rocke, 103.
Rocky ground, 8, 9, 19, 29.
Roe, 34, 64.
Roaers Building, 98.
j  Root, 64.
}  Roote, 14, ^0, 34, 64.
Round Marsh, 04.
Rowe, 64, 80, 87.
Ptoxbury, 2, 41, 59, 62, 76, 91.
Roxbury creek, 59.
Roxbury gate, 59.
Ruck, 16.
(  Ruggle, 13, 28, 30, 31.
}  Ruggles, 40, 70, 71, 91.
Ryder, 126.
Sabine, 79.
Salem, 17, 43, 104.
J
Saltonstall, 17.
1  SaltonstoU, 12.
Salter, 26, 34, 64.
Sanderson, 80.
(  Sanfford, 30.
)  Saiiford, 12, 13, 25, 69, 113, 114.
Sargent, 98.
( Savadge, 8, 19, 29.
I Savage, 9, 16, 18, 19, 21,  29, 46, 92, 96, 98,
(        106, 124, 125, 127.
School Uouse, 75.
School North Grammar, 125.
Scollay, 100, 124.
ScoUay Square, HI.
S
Scot, 2 !,  27, 28, 37.
I  Scott, 4, 22, 23, 37, 69, 76, 79, 100.
Scotland, 109.
Scotto, 1, 13, 11, 19. 25, 29, 30, 32.
Scottow, 69, 70, 75, 90, 92,97, 99, 112, 113,114.
Scudder, 98.
Seabancke, The, 123.
S
Seaberry, 6, 22, 123.
I  Seabury, 46, 123,
i  Search, 65.
)  Serch, 35.65.
Sear's Building, 98.
 - 342 - 
Index.                     135
S
Sedgwick, 25, 98.
} Sedgwicke, 25, 26, 34, 64.
S
Selleck, 4, 39, 40.
}  Sellick, 4, 21, 22, 31, 70, 89, 92, 104, 115.
Sergeant, 83, 109.
Bewail, 70, 78, SO, 82, 89, 95, 96, 110, 111, 112,
119, 120.
Bewails Diary, 82.
Bhapley, 86.
(  Shaw, 18, 19, 119.
}  Sliawe, 92.
Sliawmut av., 65.
Sbcaffe, 103, 109,
Sherman, 2, 27, 29, 31, 37, 42,  59,  70,  71,  76,
81, 101,107.
Shippen, 111,127.
Shirley, 97.
i
Shoare, 11, 12, 83, 128.
}  Shore, 5, 9, 12, 22, 77, 89, 123.
Shrimpton, 40, 47, 69, 83, 96. 103.
Shurtleff, SO, 83, 89, 91,  92, 96, 99,  100, 101,
103, 109, 120.
Sibley, 94.
Sinet, 2, 15, 35, 87.
Small shops, 95.
Smibert, 97.
Smith, 2, 6, 7, 37, 42, 44, 48, 84, 86, 99, 104, 109,
110.
Smyth, 107.
(  Snow, 33, 61, 62.
)  Snowe, 2.
Snow's orchard, 61.
Somersetshire, 101.
Bouthack, 111.
Souther, 21.
South Wind-mill, 78.
South Writing-School, 86.
Sparhawk, 6.5.
Speakman, 80.
Spectacle Island, 33.
Spring, The, 24.
Spring, The great, 101.
Sprinsgate, The, 2, 4, 23.
Spring-gate, 101, 102, 107.
Spring Uouse, 113.
Spoone, 3.
Spoore, 2, 16, 24, 27, 76, 77, 79, 83, 101, 107.
Sauare, The, 126.
Stanbury, 92.
Staniford, 112, 116.
i Stanley, 1, 6, 8, 10, 14, 15, 16, 17, 39, 41, 96,
}      97, 119, 123, 124, 125, 126, 127, 128.
( Stanly, 10.
Starbuck, 31.
State House, 69, 98, 99, 102.
States Arms, 96.
Steel, 84.
I  Steevenson, 28, 41.
}  Stevenson, 28, 37, 76, 92.
Stevens, 1-J7.
Stillman, 17.
Stoddard, 3, 20, 40, 81, 84, 103, 104, 106, 109.
Stokes, 81).
Stone, 103.
Stoughton, 4, 40, 93, 109, 113, 115.
Straine, 40, 47, 90.
Stration, 16.
St. Andrew's Lodge, 109.
Street, Batterymarch, 107.
Beach, 8T.
Beacon, 69, 70, 71, 75, 91, 112.
Bedford, 78, 81, 82, 86, 87.
Bonnet, 65, 125.
Bowdoln, 112.
Boylston, 61, 62, 63, 64, 67, 86.
Brattle, 97.
Bromlield, 83.
Buttolph. 72.
Cambridge, 71, 72, 91, HI, 112, 113, 115.
Castle, .VJ, 65.
Centriebill, 14, 15.
Gentry Hill, 14, 96, 97.
Chambers, 116.
Chardon, 114.
Street, Charles, 70, 119.
Charter, 119, 120.
Chauncy, 87.
Clark, 124.
Clough, 63.
Commercial, 123.
Congress, 100, 101.
Court, 93, 96, 97, 99, 111.
Cove, 3.
Cross, 89.
Devonshire, 99, 100, 101, 103.
Dover, 59.
Elm, 92, 93, 94.
Essex, 86, 87.
Exchange, 103.
Exeter, 87.
Federal, 79.
j  Fort, 77, 107.
I  Forrt, 2.
Franklin. 79.
Green, 113.
Gridley, 77.
Hancock, 72.
Hanover, 89, 91,  92,  93, 97, 109, 110,
111, 115, 119, 123, 124, 126, 128.
Harvard, 65.
Hawley, 76, 78, 80,
High, 78, 79.
Hollis, 65.
Holyoke, 68.
Howard, 111.
Hull, 119,  120.
Hutchinson, 77.
Kilby, 99, 100, 106.
King, 104.
Kingston, 81,87.
Leverett, 113, 115.
Lindall, 100.
Marshall, 90.
Mason, 86.
Milk,75, 76, 77, 78, 81, 101.
Mill, 120.
Mt. Vernon, 70.
Myrtle, 72.
Newbury, 80.
North, 92, 123, 124, 127.
N. Centre, 90.
Market, 92, 100.
Russell, 116.
Parraenter, 128.
Pearl, 77.
Pitts, 115.
Pond, 81.
Portland, 109, 110, 115.
Prince, 119, 12G.
Purchase, 77.
Richmond, 127, 128.
Rowe, 87.
Salem, 119, 120.
School, 75, 82, 83, 84, 97, 99, 100.
Short, 81.
Somerset, 69, 112.
South, 77, 78.
S. Market, 106.
Spruce, 70.
State, 98, 99, 103, 104.
Sudbury, 3,  4,  13,  14, 21, 40, 97, 110,
111, 11.3, 115.
Summer, 76, 77, 78, 80, 82, 94.
The Cove, 3.
Fort, 37, 41, 76, 77.
Fortt, 2.
Great, 104.
High, 2, 8,  19, 23, 26, 30, 33, 35,
36,  :i7,  40, 42, 43, 44, 45, 47,
61, 76, 82,83, 86.
Long, 86.
Main, 65
Market, 3.
Mill, 8, 35, 37, 38, 78, 79, 82.
Millne,39.
New, 40, 103.
Water, 3,40, 101.
Tremont, 62, 63, 65, 69, 75, 84, 85, 97.
 - 343 - 
136        City Document No. 46. —Part 2.
Street, Union, 92, 109.
"Washington, 61, 62, 63,65, 76, 81, 82,
84, 85, 86, 87, 92. 93, 96, 97, 98, 99,
100, 101, 102, 103, 112.
Water, 99, 101, 102.
West, 82, 85, 86.
Winter, 84, 85.
Sturgis, 69.
Swamp, 128.
Hwan, 66.
Swansea, 94.
(  Sweet, 123, 124, 127.
\  Sweete, 5, 6, 11, 22, 29, 41, 46, 123.
I  Symonds, 14.
j  Symons, 1, 9, 10, 21, 39, 92.
(  Synderland, 28, 29, 84, 85, 103, 127.
\  Synderlant, 23.
T.
Tailer, 93.
Talbott, 48.
Talmage, 33, 34, 61, 63.
Talrnidgc, 2.
Tanton, 40.
Tapping, 26, 27, 83, 97.
Taunton, 81, 84.
Tavern, Admir.al Vernon, 104.
Bunch of Grapes, 100, 125.
Castle, 94, 107, 125.
Cromwell's Head, 75.
Geortce, 94.
Globe, 125.
Green Dragon, 109.
Indian Queen, 83.
King's Arms, 96.
King's Head, 125.
L.amb, 86.
Lion, 86.
Royal Exchange, 103.
Ship, lib.
States Arms, 96, 104.
Sun, 95.
Tcffe. 78.
Teft, 8, 38, 78.
Thacher, 69.
Thomas, 24, 92.
(  Thompson, 8, 80, 124.
j   Tompson, 75.
Thwing, 3,13, 14,40,97.
Ticlvnor, 80.
Tilley, 106.
Tinclicr, 102.
{Ting, 11, 17,43,45,94.
Tinge, 43, 94.
Tyng, 2, 3, 13, 16, 17, 18, 21,  28, 90, 92, 94,
96, 104, 111.
Tynge, 1, 24.
Towne Records, 70, 91.
Townsend, 31, 37, 40, 42, 69, 84.
Town's wiiy. The, 104.
Toy, 19.
Transcript, 71.
Tremont Row, 111.
Trotmau, 91.
Trott, 61.
<  Truesdaile, 24.
I  Trucsdale, 25. 28, 30. 70, 98.
Turner, 13, 24, 25, 26, 27, 38, 44, 46, 69, 70, 76,
77, 78, 79, 96, 97, 102, 115, 116.
Turrell, 120, 128.
Tuttill, 80.
Tuttle, 7, 8, 38, 39, 78, 124.
Tyler, 95.
u.
Underbill, 93.
Upsall, 127.
Usher, 4, 5, 41,61, 103, 112.
V.
Valley Acre, 111.
Vane, 111.
Vardy. 103.
Vassal!, 80, 81, 111, ]
Veazie, 63.
Venner, 104.
Vergoose, 85.
Vernon's Head, 104.
Vetch, 84.
( Viall, 81.
\ Vyal, 125.
( Vyall, 39, 43.
w.
Wainwright, 86.
Waite, 20, 28, 36, 37, 39, 47, 76, 79, 80, 81, 83,
100.
Wadsworth, 125.
Wakefield, 120, 127.
Walcott, 112.
Waldo, 106, 112.
Waldron, 63.
Walker, 17, 33, 34, 62, 63, 64, 65, 92.
Wall, 111.
Walley, 101.
Ward, 26, 27, 107.
Wardwell, 110.
Warehouse, 95.
Warren, 110.
Washington, 75.
Washington Gardens, 86.
Watch-house, 95.
Water-line, The, 103, 110, 115.
Water Mill, The, 10, 90, 91.
Watring place, 35.
M^itters, 91.
Way, The, 10, 12, 128.
(  Waymoutb,45.
I
Weymouth, 90.
Weatherhead, 100.
f Web, 19.
Webb, 6, 7, 15, 17, 21, 23, 29, 32, 79, 85, 86.
i       94,100,101,102,104,106.
LWeebb,4.
Weekes, 16.
(  Welles, 63.
I
Wells, 22, 89.
Wendell, 85, 97.
Werdall, 5, 9, 11, 15, 18,19, 29, 89.
West Indies, 124.
Wharfe, The, 42.
Wharf, Clark's, 125.
Wharf, Woodmancy's, 95.
Wharf, Scarlet's, 125.
Wheeler, 35, 81, 82.
White, 36, 81.
Whitman, 102.
Whitmore, 96, 102, 111, 112.
(  Wiborne, 45, 82.
/  Wibourne, 45.
Wicks, 6, 41.
Wilke.lOl.
Wilkes, 112.
Willard, 31.
William, 7.
Williams, 26, 39, 44, 70, 71, 75, 97.
(  Willis, 18, 19, 44, 45, 93.
/  Wyllis, 84.
Willougbby, 84.
Willson. 102.
Wilson, 2, 3, 5, 7, 13, 14, 15, 18, 19, 20, 28,
30, 35, 41, 42, 69, 70, 71, 72, 78, 86, 91,
93,97,103, 106, 111,123.
Winbourno, 123.
Windmill, The. .30, 78, 79, 119, 120, 128.
Windmill, Tuthill's, 79.
Windsor Castle, 120.
Wing, 19, 23, 32, 40, 71, 85, 94, 96.
Winnisimet ferry, 123.
Winsor, 65, 69, 78, 83, 86, 89, 90, 91, 93,  104,
106, 115, 123.
 - 344 - 
Index.                     137
r Winthrop, 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 7, 15,
 - 345 - 
 - 346 - 
 - 347 - 
 - 348 - 
 - 349 - 
 - 350 - 
 - 351 - 
 - 352 - 
 - 353 - 
 - 354 - 
 - 355 - 
 - 356 - 
 - 357 - 
 - 358 - 
SEKIES OF
Plans of Bostoi^
SHOWING
EXISTING WAYS AND OWNERS OF PKOPEETY
1630-1635-1640-1645.
Compiled by GEORGE LAMB,
FROM TOWN RECORDS,  BOOK OF  POSSESSIONS,  MASSACHUSETTS BAY
RECORDS, savage's WINTHROP, LECHFORD'S DIARY,
ASPINwall's notarial RECORDS
AND
SUFFOLK COUNTY DEEDS.
SCALE, ABOUT 600  FEET TO AN INCH.
BOSTON:
MUNICIPAL PRINTING OFFICE.
1905.
 - 359 - 
This series of plans of the Town of Boston is the result
of a great amount of research, and presents in  a most in-
teresting manner the growth of  the Town from the  lirst
settlement to 1645.
The plan dated Deccmlxn- 2o,  1645, while  in the  main
correct, does not show all  the transfers  made din-ing  that
year, as will  be seen by consulting Suffolk Deeds, Lib. 1,
as  noted in  the introduction  to  the  Book of Possessions
(Volume 2 of the Boston Records), the first  111 pages of
which were written  by William Aspinwall prior to tiie 10th
month, 1645.
The numbers on the i)lans  follow the original  pagination
of the Hook of Possessions.
On the plan of 1630 the lot  inarked S should have been
assigned to Thomas Sharp.
These i)lans  show the  old  peninsula  of  Boston ;    con-
sequently the allotments at  the " field end next Roxbury "
do not appear.
The New Field was located at the west part of the town
in the angle bounded by the present Cambridge street, and
exten(Ung through Lynde and Leverett streets to  Ilaugh's
Point.   The principal town landing was at the head of the
cove or dock, around which Valentine IJill's  highway was
laid out in 1641.   Stieet names were not given until a later
period, though the present Washington street was known as
the "High street, the great street or highway to Roxbury."
Other allotments were made at Rumney Marsh (Chelsea),
Mt. WoUaston ((^uincy), and Muddy River (Brookline).
Ownership and transfers of many lots between the periods
shown by the plans are not noted.
E.  W. McGlenen,
City liegistrar.
Boston, 1905.
 - 360 - 
1630
 - 361 - 
A
 - 362 - 
 - 363 - 
'^
<i
i/ll
 - 364 - 
1635
 - 365 - 
1635
A -
 - 366 - 
Plans of Boston, 1635.
55 —William Pierce.
56 —Isaac Grosse.
57 —William Hudson, Sr.
58 —Robert Scott.
58 —William Parsons.
59a—Thomas Matsou.
59 —James Davis.
60 —Richard Fairbanks.
60 —William Corser.
61 —Philemon Pormot.
62 —Richard Truesdale.
eS''—Robert Turner, Vintner,
63 —Richard Hutchinson.
63 —Robert Sedgwick.
64 —Thomas Scotto.
65 —Richard Tappan,
66 —Benjamin Gillom.
67 —Nathaniel Woodward.
67 —John Compton.
68 —Edward Hutchinson.
68 —Richard Sherman.
69 —William Pell.
70 —Robert Rice.
71 —James Penn.
71 —John Kenrick.
72 —Nicholas Parker.
72 —Nathaniel Bishop.
73 —Zaccheus Bosworth.
74 —Richard Cooke.
77 -—Wilham Aspinwall.
77 —Thomas Grubb.
79 —Edward Jacklin.
79 —William Townsend.
80 —Robert Blott.
81
82
83
83
85
85^
86
86
87
89
89
90
93
96
97
100
101
103
104
104
105
106
107
107
108
109
109
110
K
M
P
S
Henry Flint.
Anthony Haj-ker.
Robert Wing.
Ralph Mason.
William C'olhron.
Edward Belcher.
William Talmage.
Robert Walker.
Ralph Roote.
Jacob Eliot.
William Salter.
Grarrett Bourne.
John Cranwell.
Edward Rainsford.
John OdHn.
Robert Hull.
John Marshall.
Richard Waite.
Robert Reynolds.
Gamaliel Waite.
William Deming.
Madid Engles.
Richard Gridley.
Edward Brown.
WilUam Lytherland.
Matthew lyons.
Thomas Muut.
Jonathan Negoos.
Thomas Foster.
George Griggs.
Burying Ground.
Thomas Meekins.
Prison.
First School-house.
 - 367 - 
 - 368 - 
BOSTON
_showing _
EXISTINGWATSAND OWNERS
December'^5, 1635
- Comp.ledb^ -
GEORGE LAMB
 - 369 - 
 - 370 - 
1640.
 - 371 - 
I    640
A
 - 372 - 
Plans of Boston, 1640.              11
38-
 - 373 - 
12             Plans of Boston, 1640.
78
 - 374 - 
?lanor
BOSTON
_showing _
EXISTINGWATSAND OWNERS
Decii^er^S, 1640
- Compiledby -
OEORGE LAMB
 - 375 - 
 - 376 - 
1645
 - 377 - 
645
A
 - 378 - 
Plans of Boston, 1645.             15
32 -
 - 379 - 
16             Plans of Boston, 1645.
67 —John Comptou.
68 —Richard Sherman,
68 —Edward Hutchinson.
69 —William Pell.
69 —.John Spoore.
70 —Robert Rice.
70 —William Dinsdale.
71 —John Kenrick.
71 —.James Penn.
72 —Nicholas Parker.
72 —Nathaniel Bishop.
73 —Zaccheus Bosworth,
73 —John Stevenson.
74 —Richard Cooke.
74 —John Synderland.
75 —John Lugg.
75 —Arthur Perry.
76 —Francis Lyle.
76 —Thomas Millard.
77 —WiUiam Aspinwall.
77 —Thomas Grubb.
78 —Edmund Dennis.
78 —Ephraim Pope.
79 —Edward Jacklin.
79 —William Townsend.
80 —Jane Parker.
80 —Robert Blott.
81 —Henry Flint.
81 —Thomas Flint.
82 —Anthony Harker.
82 —Thomas Clark,  Black-
smith.
83 —Robert Wing.
83 —Ralph Mason.
84 —Richard Carter.
84 —Jacob Leger.
85 —William Colbron.
85 —Edward Belcher.
86 —William Talmage.
86 —Robert Walker.
87 ^Ralph Roote.
87 —William Brisco.
88 —Jacob Eliot.
88 —William Salter.
89 —Garret Bourne.
89 —John Cranwell.
90 —Edward Rainsford.
90 —David Offley,
91 —John Pelton.
92 —Griffeth Bowen.
92 —Clement Cole.
93 —Walter Sinet.
93 —John Odlin.
94 —Thomas Wheeler.
94 —Robert Woodward
95 —John Hurd.
95 —William Blantaine.
96 —Job Judkins.
96 —Robert  Hull,  Mast-
maker.
97 —John Marshall,
97 —Nathaniel Woodward.
98 —Richard Hogg.
98 —Nathaniel Eaton.
99 —Francis East.
99 _Charity White.
100 —Richard Waite.
100 —Edward Fletcher.
101 —Robert Reynolds.
101 —John Palmer, Jr.
102 —John Palmer, Sr.
102 —Amos Richardson.
 - 380 - 
Plans of Boston, 1645.              17
103
103
104
104
105
105
106
106
107
107
Gamaliel Waite.
Benjamin Negoos.
William Deming.
Madid Engles.
Richard Gridley.
John Harrison.
Edward Brown.
Nicholas Baxter.
William Lytherland.
Matthew lyons.
108 —Thomas iNIunt.
108 —William Teft.
109 —Jonathan Negoos.
109 —Thomas Foster.
110 —George Griggs.
110 —Richard Woodhouse.
111 —Thomas Bell.
HI —Richard HoUich.
112 —Christopher Lawson.
 - 381 - 
 - 382 - 
BOSTON
 - 383 - 
 - 384 - 
 - 385 - 
 - 386 - 
 - 387 - 
 - 388 - 
 - 389 - 
 - 390 - 
 - 391 - 
 - 392 - 
 - 393 - 
 - 394 - 
 - 395 - 
 - 396 - 
 - 397 - 
SOUTHEASTERN MftSSSCHUSETTS UNIVERSll
3  Z"^^^  DD317 3TD D
 - 398 - 
 - 399 - 
 - 400 - 
