WEST  SUSSEX 
COUNTY  LIBRARIES 


WITH 


FORS 


R 


IFERENCE 


DEPARTMENT 


J 


Digitized  by  the  Internet  Archive 
in  2014 


https://archive.org/details/calendarofpatentOOgrea 


CALENDAR 

OF  THE 

PATENT  ROLLS 

I'RESKnVED   IN  TJIE 

rUBLIC  RECORT)  OFFICE. 


TREPARED  UNDEll  THE  SUPERINTENDENCE  OF 

THE    DEPUTY    KEEPER    OF    THE  RECORDS. 

EDWARD  IV. 
HENRY  VI. 


A.D.  1467-1477. 


PUBLISHED    HY    AUTlIOIilTY    OK    IIER    MAJESTY'S    I'UINCirAL    SECRETARY    OF  STATE 
FOR    TIIK    HOME  DEl'ARTMENT. 


LONDON: 

PRINTED  FOR  HER  MAJESTY'S  STATIONERY  OFFICE, 
BY  EYKE  AND  SPOTTISWOODE, 

PRINTERS  TO  THE  QUEEN'S  MOST  EXCELLENT  MAJESTY. 

And  to  be  purchased,  cither  directly  or  through  any  BookHellcr,  from 
EYRE  AND  SPOTTISWOODE,  East  Harding  Street,  Fleet  Street,  E.G.;  or 
JOHN  MENZIES  &  Co.,  12,  Hanover  Street,  Edinburgh,  and 
90,  West  Nile  Street,  Glasgow  ;  or 
HODGES,  FIGGIS,  &  Co.,  Limited,  1U4.  Grafton  Street,  Dublin-. 


1900, 


I 


CON  TENTS. 


Preface  - 
Corrigenda 
Calendar 
Appendix 
Index  - 


Page 

V 

vii 
1 

-  607 

-  641 


X    96186.        Wt.  24327. 


P  R  E  F  A  C  E . 


The  present  volume  forms  part  of  a  series  of  Calendars 
of  the  Patent  Rolls  from  the  reign  of  Edward  I.  to  that 
of  Henry  VII.,  the  object  and  character  of  which  are 
explained  in  the  Preface  to  the  first  volume  for  the  reign 
of  Edward  III.  (a.d.  1327—1330).  The  text  has  been 
prepared,  under  my  immediate  supervision,  by  Mr.  R.  C. 
Fowler,  with  the  assistance  of  Mr.  R.  F.  Isaacson,  both  of 
the  Public  Record  Office.  Mr.  Fowler  has  also  compiled 
the  Index. 

H.  C.  MAXWELL-LYTE. 


November  1899. 


CORRIGENDA. 


ge  14,  line  19,  For  moitiraln  read  mortmain. 


)J 

18, 

)» 

16,  „ 

8ces  , 

,  fees. 

»J 

214, 

)> 

44,  „ 

Milse  , 

,  Miles 

)> 

239, 

» 

36,  ., 

custody  , 

,  custom. 

»> 

333, 

Rbert 

Robert. 

>» 

363, 

» 

27,  „ 

Loudon  , 

,  Lincoln. 

» 

474, 

23, 

Bazanisiila  , 

,  Bazainsula. 

504, 

» 

23,  „ 

1876 

1476. 

,  587,    „   26,  After  Sec  p.        insert  583. 

,  COS,    „     3,  The  nstcrisk  belonys  lo 

,  619,    „    25,  jFor  Spoldyi.g  rca</ Spaldj  ng. 


CALENDAR 

OF  THE 

PATENT  ROLLS. 


7  EDWAllD  IV.— Part  I. 


1467. 

April  21. 
Wustminstcr. 


April  2o. 

Westminster. 


April  15. 
Westminster. 


April  28. 
Westiui  uster. 


April  16. 
Westminster. 


April  ;]{). 

Wes(iiilii!>(ir. 


Ajiril 
W'l.Mmiiiftcr. 


Membraxe  24. 

Piirdoii.s  of  outlawry  to  tlic  following : — 
John  Ilawcok  of  IlirMtcourtnay,  co.  York,  '  tuyllour,'  for  not  appearing 
l)cforc  the  king  at  Westminster  to  answer  Alice  Turpyn  of  Tydirtiiay 
and  William  Turpyn  of  T3dirthay  touching  a  trespass,  he  having 
surrend(!red  to  the  MarshaLsea  prison,  as  John  Markham,  chief 
justice  of  the  King's  Bench,  lias  certiliecl.  York. 

John  Boseworth  late  of  Merston  Mortoyn,  co.  Bedford,  *  husbondman,' 
for  not  appearing  before  John  Prysot  and  his  fellows,  justices  of 
thtf  Bench  of  the  late  king,  to  answer  Robert  Harre  touching  a  debt 


of  10/. 


Oxford. 


Thomas  Gylot  of  Lymmcsfcld,  co.  Surrey,  '  cliapman,'  for  not  appearing 
before  the  justices  of  the  Bench  to  answer  John  Frecok  touching  a 
debt  of  9/,  Surrey. 

John  Stndfalde,  vicar  of  the  i)arish  church  of  Braton,  co.  York,  for  not 
iil)pcaring  to  answer  John  Fouler  of  lleuore,  co.  Derby,  touching  a 
debt  of  5  marks.  Derby. 

Elias  Fercus  of  Shirbourne,  co.  Dort;et,  '  marchaunt,'  for  not  appearing 
before  John  Pryi^ot  and  his  fellows,  justices  of  the  Bench  of  the 
late  king,  to  an.'^wer  William  llaukyns  touching  a  debt  of  40*'. 

Dorset. 

1'iionias  Kichardson  of  Lasyngby,  co.  York,  'yoinan,'  for  not  appearing 
before  the  justices" of  the  Bench  to  answer  Tliouias  Melburn,  clerk, 
touching  a  debt  of  10  marks.  Y^ork. 

John  Walssli  of  Dan  by  on  Wysk,  co.  York,  'yoman,'  for  the  same. 

Y'ork. 

Jolin  Kicliard.son  of  Redmcr,  co.  York,  *  yoman,'  for  the  same.  \''ork. 
Tiiomas  Geiion  late  of  Foislon,  <'o.  Kent,  '  husbondman,'  for  not 
appearing  before  Robert  Danby,  knight,  and  his  fellows,  justices  of 
the  Bench,  to  answer  John  Gilford,  escjuire,  late  sheriff  of  Kent, 
touching  a  debt  of  10/.  Kent. 


Marf  in  Pascowe  late  of  JNlcdei-sholl,  eo.  Cornwall,  '  yoman,' for  Dot 
appearing  before  the  ju.>-li(es  of  the  Bench  to  answer  Nieliohis 
Trosithuy  touching  a  trespass  comniKled  l>y  him,  and  John  Pascowe, 
late  of  Aledessholl,  '  smyth,'  and  iNIartin  Engof,  late  of  St.  Carnutok, 
CO.  Cornwall,  cliaplaiu. 
y  'JOlbC     Wt,  243^7.  A 


2 


CALENDAR  OF  PATENT  ROLLS. 


1467. 

April  18. 
"Westminster, 


May  5. 
Westminster. 


May  6. 
Westminster. 


Jiuie  5. 
Westminster. 


June  5. 
Westminster. 


June  6. 
Westminster. 

.liiiic  !). 
Westu\iu.ster. 

.Tiiii';  10. 

Westiuiii  .t('\ . 


Membrane  24 — cont. 
Simon  Rowlond  of  Norhainptou,  co.  Northampton,  '  wexchaundeler,' 
for  not  appearing  to  answer  Richard  Rawlyn,  citizen  and  grocer  of 
London,  touching  a  debt  of  5  marks.  Surrey. 

William  Ilarpoll  of  Norhamptou,  '  roper,'  for  not  appearing  to  answer 
the  said  Richard  touching  a  debt  of  40*.  Sm'rey. 

Edward  Hastynges  of  Daylesford,  co.  Worcester,  esquire,  for  not 
appearing  to  answer  Humphrey  Stafford,  esquire,  touching  a  debt 
of  20/.  Warwick. 

John  Maryet  late  of  Crowemer,  co.  Norfolk,  alias  John  Maryot  of 
Estbekham,  co.  Norfolk,  'yoman,'  alias  of  Bekham,  co.  Norfolk, 
'  gentilman,'  for  not  appearing  before  John  Prysot  and  his  fellows, 
justices  of  the  Bench  of  the  late  king,  to  answer  Bartholomew 
^Multon,  Thomas  Thorndon  and  John  Gargrave,  esquire,  late 
marshal  of  the  Marshalsea,  touching  debts  of  7  marks,  12/.  and 
1005.  respectively.  London. 

William  Shawedou  late  of  Redyug,  eo.  Berks,  *osteler,'  for  not 
appearing  before  the  justices  of  the  Bench  to  answer  John  Bay- 
worth  of  Rcdyng,  '  baker,'  touching  a  debt  of  10/.  Berks, 

Adam  Gough  of  Wynchecombe,  co,  Gloucester,  'milleward,'  for  not 
appearing  before  John  Prysot  and  his  fellows,  justices  of  the  Bench 
of  the  late  king,  to  answer  John  Worewell  touching  a  debt  of  60*. 

Gloucester. 

John  Parot  of  New  Malton,  co.  York,  *  smyth,'  for  not  appearing  before 
the  same  justices  to  answer  Ralph  Eyre,  esquire,  for  having  with 
John  Hilton,  lute  of  Kirkeby  Mysperton,  co.  York, '  tyler,'  Thomas 
Clerk,  late  of  Kirkeby  Mysperton,  *  paryssheclerk,'  John  Clerk,  late 
of  Kirkeby  My.sperton, '  servant,'  William  Barker,  late  of  New  Malton, 
'  yoman,'  .John  Hunt  of  New  Malton,  '  panyerman,'  Edmund  Mason 
of  Old  Malton,  co.  York,  '  taillour,'  John  Warde,  late  of  Wellum,  co. 
York,  '  yoman,'  John  Hall  of  Pykeryng,  co.  Y''ork,  *  souter,'  William 
West  of  Pykeryng,  '  forsler,'  John  Colt,  late  of  Pykeryng,  '  sawyer,' 
Henry  Dodmor,  late  of  Pykeryng,  '  laborer,'  Thomas  Semer,  late  of 
Pykeryng,'  taillour,'  Henry  Wode,  late  of  Pykeryng,  '  mylner,'  John 
Wode,  late  of  Pykeryng, '  mylner,'  Richard  Fyssher,  late  of  Pykeryng, 
'  panyerman,'  John  Taillour,  late  of  Pykeryng,  '  taillour,'  William 
Taillour,  late  of  Pykeryng,  '  taillour,'  Laurence  Dauson,  late  of 
Pykeryng,  '  laborer,'  Tliomas  Day,  late  of  Pykeryng,  '  mylner,' 
John  Kirkeby,  late  of  Thornton  in  Pykerynglyth, '  yoman,'  Alexander 
Botelcr  of  the  same,  '  webster,'  and  Thomas  Dalton,  late  of  Kirkeby 
Mysperton,  esquire,  assaulted  him  at  Kirkeby  Mysperton,  and  taken 
him  to  Kirkeby  Morcsyilc  and  imprisoned  him  there.  York, 

John  Herman  of  Ardyngton,  co,  licrks,  '  husbondman,'  for  not 
appearing  before  the  justices  of  the  Bench  to  answer  John,  abbot 
of  Oseney  by  Oxford,  touching  a  debt  of  100*.  Berks, 

Thomas  Swyft  late  of  Lychefeld,  co.  Stafford,  '  mercer,'  for  not 
appearing  before  the  king  to  answer  John  Smalwode  touching  a 
trespass,  Salop, 

Richard  Manchester  late  of  Walton,  in  the  county  of  the  city  of  York, 
'  yoman,'  for  not  appearing  before  the  justices  of  the  Bench  to  answer 
A\^illiani  Ilulkyn.  clerk,  touching  n  tre.«p;i38.  York. 

Alan  Sadclcr  of  Chichcstrc,  co.  Sussex,  '  sadder,'  for  not  appearing 
before  John  Prysot  and  his  fellows,  justices  of  the  Bench  of  the 


7  ilDWARD  IV.— Part  I. 


3 


Membrane  24 — conf. 

late  king,  to  answer  a  plea  that  he  render  60*.  to  Robert  Anker  aud 
Edward  Birger,  executors  of  the  will  of  John  Preston.  Wilts. 

Thomas  Westwode  of  Bury  St.  Edmunds,  co.  Suffolk,  '  draper,'  for 
not  appearing  before  Riciiard  Neuton  and  liis  fellows,  justices  of  the 
Bcncli  of  the  late  king,  to  answer  William  Cley  of  Owtwell,  clerk, 
and  John  Gloucet'  touching  a  debt  of  10  marks.  Norfolk. 

John  Ive  of  Westhurrok,  co.  Essex,  *  husbondman,'  and  Agnes  his 
wife,  late  the  wife  of  Joliu  Stone  and  co-executrix  of  his  will,  for 
not  appearing  before  the  justices  of  the  Bench  when  sued  with 
Geoffrey  Treweblete,  late  of  Westhurrok,  '  yomau,'  executor  of  the 
(•aid  will,  to  answer  a  plea  that  they  render  6  marks  to  Thomas 
Quyne,  citizen  and  '  fysshemonger  '  of  London.  London. 

Robert  Lodus  of  Lichefcld,  co.  Stafford,  '  heuster,'  for  not  appearing 
before  John  Prysot  and  his  fellows,  justices  of  the  Bench  of  the 
late  king,  to  answer  John  Shirwode  touching  a  debt  of  6/. 

Coventry, 


Membrane  23. 

•lohn  Rotell  ot  Mendelysham,  co.  Suffolk,  '  husbondman,'  for  not 
a|)[)earing  before  llichard  Neuton  and  his  fellows,  justices  of  the 
Bench  of  the  late  king,  to  answer  Agnes  Sergeant  touching  a  debt 
of  405.  Norfolk. 

Jdlin  Paterych  of  Hardcbrvggc,  co.  Southaniptcn,  'husbondman,'  for  not 
ap))Caring  before  John  Prysot  and  his  fellows,  jii.stices  of  the  Bench 
of  the  late  king,  to  answer  John  Sterlyng  touching  a  trespass. 

Dorset. 

John  Cawase  late  of  Knyglitoii,  co.  Somerset,  '  husbondman,'  for  not 
appearing  before  the  late  king  at  \\'estminster  to  answer  Thomas 
Burdct,  esquire,  touching  a  trespass.  Loudon. 

Richard  Bate  late  of  (heat  Byllyng,  co.  Northampton,  clerk,  for  not 
appearing  before  the  justices  of  tlie  Bench  to  answer  John  Ilyrst, 
chaplain,  touching  a  debt  of  10/.  Nottingham. 

William  Baylly  or  Baylye,  rector  of  the  parish  church  of  Motham, 
CO.  \Vorce8tcr,  for  not  ap|it  aring  to  answer  Edmund,  abbot  of  the 
monastery  of  St.  Edburga,  Pershore,  co.  Worcester,  touching  a  debt 
of  40/.  Worcester. 

Thomas  Clayton  late  of  Denby  (iraun;^o,  in  the  parisli  of  Ileton,  co. 
York,  '  husbondman,'  for  not  appearing  before  the  king  to  answer 
William  Nettylton  touching  a  trespas.".  Middlesex. 

William  Clayton,  late  of  Denby  Granngo,  for  the  same.  York. 

Bichard  Iladilon  of  liristol,  '  marchaunt,'  for  not  appearing  before  the 
justices  of  the  Bench  to  answer  .John  Uairstang,  alias  Uastangre, 
citizen  and  grocer  of  London,  touching  a  debt  of  40s.  London. 

Richard  Langford  of  Edelmcton,  co.  Middlesex,  '  maltman,'  for  not 
appearing  before  Robert  Dauby  and  his  lellows,  justices  of  the 
iSench,  to  answer  Nicliohis  Mi»re1i;ill,  citizen  and  '  iremonger '  of 
London,  touciiing  a  debt  of  lOa.  Middlesex. 

James  Baskervile  late  of  Staundon,  co.  ITercford,  esquire,  for  not 
appearing  before  the  justices  of  the  Bench  to  answer  a  plea  that  he 
render  40*.  to  William  Norton,  esipiire,  John  Markwyke,  clerk, 


4 


CALENDAR  OF  PATENT  ROLLS. 


Membrane  23 — cont. 
Richard  Boneautre,  clerk,  and  Walter  Norys,  executors  of  the  will 
of  Richard  Nordon,  late  citizen  and  tailor  of  London.  London. 

July  3.  Nicholas  Gaunt  late  of  Abyndon,  co.  Berks,  '  chaundeler,'  for  not 

Westiiiiuster.  a))pearing  before  John  Prysot  and  his  fellows,  justices  of  the  Bench 

of  the  late  king,  to  answer  John  Pelde,  citizen  and  '  stokfyssh- 
monger '  of  London,  and  John  Curteys,  citizen  and  '  stokfysshmonger  ' 
of  London,  touching  a  debt  of  4/.  London. 

Jidy  8.  Joan,  late  the  wife  of  Walter  Ralegh,  late  Ferdell,  in  the  county  of 

Wcstiiiiustcr.  Devon,  '  wedowe,'  executrix  of  the  will  of  Walter  Ralegh,  for  not 

appearing  before  the  justices  of  the  Bench,  to  answer  John  Wydeslade 
the  elder,  touching  a  debt  of  40a'. 

July  8.  William  Rose  or  Roose  of  Brocbury  or  Brokebury,  co.  Hereford; 

Wesiiniiister.  '  geutilman,'  for  not  appearing  to  answer  William  Catesby,  kuight» 

late  sheriff  of  Hereford,  and  John  Wye  of  Teukesbury,  '  bell  yeter,' 
touching  debts  of  4  marks  and  10/.  respectively. 

Hereford  &  Gloucester. 

July  7.  Richard  Jannys   of   Whittyngeslowe,  co.  Salop,  *  yoman,'  for  not 

Westminster.  appearing  to  answer  Thomas  Acton,  Richard  Alcok,  Richard  Stevyns 

and  Ralph  Barbour,  executors  of  the  wfll  of  John  Gosenyll,  touching 
a  debt  of  40.y.  Salop. 

.Juno  22,  Thomas  Conipton  late  of  Stratford  on  Avene,  co.  Warwick,  mercer, 

Wcstiuiiistui.  for  not  appearing  to  answer  Richard  Wyse  alias  Wyssc  and  Philip 

Amersham  alias  Amondesham,  mercers  of  London,  touching  a  debt  of 
35/.  London. 

John  Spencer,  citizen  and  tailor  of  London,  for  not  appearing  before 
John  Prysot  and  his  fellows,  justices  of  the  Bench  of  the  late  king, 
to  answer  Philippa  Russell  of  London,  '  senglewoman,'  and  Richard 
Grene  of  Hereford,  merchant,  touching  debts  of  120/.  and  10/. 
respectively.  London. 

Oct.  10.  Thomas  Cullyng  late  of  Mildenhale,  co.  Suffolk,  'barker,'  for  not 

Wcstiniuster.  appearing  before   the  justices  of  the  Bench  to  answer  Thomas 

Barbour  touching  a  debt  of  40s.  Suffolk. 

Oct.  14.  John  Rote  of  Nuuswapham,  co.  Cambridge,  *  yoman,'  for  not  appearing 

Westminster.  to  answer  a  plea  that  he  render  40*.  to  Thomas  Rombalde,  executor 

of  the  will  of  Marjory,  late  the  wife  of  William  Rombalde  and 
executrix  of  his  will.  Cambridge. 

Stephen  Brasyer  of  Norwich,  '  notarye,'  for  not  appearing  to  answer 
a  plea  that  he  render  20/.  to  John  Benet  and  David  Robkyn, 
executors  of  the  will  of  Richard  Petteworthe,  late  clerk  alias  notary. 

Surrey. 

Oct.  18.  William  Robert  late  of  Sybertoft,  co.  Northampton,  '  husbondman,' 

Wcstmicster.  lor  not  appearing  before  John  Prysot  and  his  fellows,  justices  of 

the  Bench  of  the  late  king,  to  answer  Walter  Kebell  of  Reresby, 
esquire,  alias  '  gentilman,'  touching  a  debt  of  15/.  London. 

Thomas  Sawenders  of  Helmynden,  co.  Northampton,  '  husbondman,' 
for  not  appearing  to  answer  William  Colyus,  clerk,  Henry  Tewe 
and  Thomas  Pyll,  all  of  Maydeford,  touching  a  debt  of  G  marks, 

Northampton. 

]{ichard  Sawenders  of  Helmynden,  '  luisbondman,*  for  the  same. 

Northampton. 

0*jl.  IS.  Tliuinas  Middflton  of  Ellerton,  co.  York,  esipiirc,  and  Margaret  his 

\Vcsimiu!-ter.  wiiV,  for  not  appearing  before  the  justices  of  the  Bench  to  answer  a 


7  EDWARD  IV.— Paut  I. 


5 


1467. 


Oct.  8. 
VVestuiiiiBtcr. 


Oct.  23. 

Westminster. 


Oct.  24. 
Westiuinster. 

Nov.  12. 
Westminster. 


Nov.  11. 

Westminster. 

Nov.  15.' 
Westminsttr. 


Membrane  23 — cont. 

plea  that  they  render  8/.  to  William  Sherman,  administrator  of  the 
goods  late  of  John  Pekeryng,  who  died  intestate,  executor  of  the 
will  of  William  Mildrede.  Lonilon. 

William  Hoxhill  of  the  parish  of  Honshawe,  co.  Devon,  '  husbondmun,' 
for  not  appearing  before  John  Pry.sot  and  his  fellows,  justices  of 
the  Bench  of  the  late  king,  to  answer  Nicholas  Radeford  and  tlohn 
Germyn  touching  a  debt  of  100s.  Devon, 

Anna  Shipton,  late  of  Shipton  in  the  forest  of  Galtres,  co.  York, 
'  wedowe,'  administrator  of  the  goods  late  of  William  Shipton,  late 
of  York,  '  gentilman,'  who  died  intestate,  for  not  appearing  Ijcfore 
the  justices  of  the  Bench  to  answer  a  plea  that  she  render  22/.  to 
Robert  Wylkynsou,  citizen  and  '  iremonger '  of  Loudon.  Loudon. 

Edward  Ayschele  late  of  Bedhampton,  co.  Southampton,  clerk,  for  not 
appearing  to  answer  a  plea  that  he  render  104.s.  to  Thomas  Tor  tier 
and  John  atte  Welles,  executors  of  the  will  of  Master  Richard 
Banham,  clerk.  Middlesex. 

Gilbert  Godfelawe  of  the  town  of  Sulhampton,  'yoman,'  for  not 
appearing  to  answer  William  Ludlowe  touching  a  debt  of  20  marks. 

Wilts. 

Alexander  Fayreford  late  of  Suthwerk,  co.  Surrey,  es(iuirc,  for  not 
appearing  before  Robert  Danby  and  his  fellows,  justices  of  the 
Bench,  to  answer  Alice  late  the  wife  of  John  Ilewele  touching  a 
debt  of  6/.  London. 

Thomas  Audrewe  late  of  Blakeney,  co.  Norfolk,  merchant,  for  not 
appearing  before  the  justices  of  the  Bench  to  answer  Henry  Toller, 
citizen  and  grocer  of  London,  touching  a  debt  of  10/.  London. 

John  Noreys  of  Gretton,  co.  Gloucester,  'husbondman,'  for  not 
appearing  before  John  Prisot  and  his  fellows,  justices  of  the  Bencli 
of  tlie  late  king,  to  answer  John  Faslolf,  knight,  touching  a  debt  of 
40*.  Middlesex. 


Membrase  22. 

Nov.  25.  William  C'hampneys  of  Alberton,  co.  Gloucester,  '  frankeleyn,'  aUus 

Westminster.  '  gentilman,' for  not  appearing  before  the  justices  of  the  Bench  to 

answer  Maurice  Berkeley  of  Wetley,  knight,  touching  a  debt  of 
20  marks.  Wilts. 
Thomas  Clerk  of  Norliainpton,  *  marchaund,'  for  not  appearing  to 
answer  Thomas  Tresham,  knight,  and  Richard  Sapcote  of  Staunford 
touching  a  debt  of  20/.  Middlesex. 
John  Clerk  of  Norharapton,  '  mercer,*  for  the  same.  Middlesex. 
Nov.  17.  Thomas  Markham  late  of  Hastynges,  co.  Sussex,  '  gentilman,'  alias 

Westminster.  '  marchaunt,'  for  not  appearing  to  answer  Thomas  Lemyngton, 

merchant  of  the  staple  of  Calais,  touching  a  debt  of  15/.  Surrey. 
Nov.  20.  John  Stones  late  of  Wodelonde,  co.  Kent,  cleik,  alias  hxie  parson  of 

Westminster.  Rokeby,  co.  Warwick,  for  not  appearing  to  answer  Thomas  Boleyn, 

clerk,  touching  a  debt  of  40*.  Kent. 
Nov.  17.  John  Probys  late  of  Ebbesham,  co.  Surrey,  '  husbondman,'  for  not 

Westminster.  appearing  to  answer  Thomas  Cobh.am,  knight,  touching  a  debt  of 

40/.  Essex. 
Oct.  27.  Ihomas  Bankhous  of  Thorkilby,  co.  York,  'yoman,'  for  not  appearing 

WestPQiufter.  before  Jobu  Prysot  and  his  fellows,  justices  of  the  Bench  of  flic 


c 


1467. 


Oct.  16. 

■Westminster. 


1468. 

Jan.  23. 

Wt'stiiiiiister, 


Jan.  28. 

Westminster. 


Jan.  29. 

VVestmiBster. 

Jan.  23. 

Westminster. 

Feb.  1. 
Westminster. 


Jan.  29. 

Westminster. 


Feb.  3. 
Westminster. 


CALE>'DAR  OF  PATENT  ROLLS. 


Membrane  22 — coiit. 

Jate  king,  to  answer  Thomas  Preston  of  Seterjngton  touching  a 
debt  of  100s.  York. 
Thomas  Case  late  of  Folkstone,  co.  Kent,  'yoman,'  for  not  appearing 
to  answer  William  Swerendon  alias  Swyrynden  alias  Swrynden  of 
London,  '  gcntilmau,'  John  Hokregge  alias  Hocryng  of  Meltou  by 
Gravesend,  co.  Kent,  '  gentilman,'  and  John  Laurens  of  Meltou  by 
Gravesend,  '  zeman,'^touching  a  debt  of  10  marks.  London. 

John  Basse  late  of  Knapwell,  co.  Cambridge,  '  husbondman,'  for  not 
appearing  before  the  justices  of  the  Bench  to  answer  Richard  Tille 
touching  a  debt  of  40*.  Suffolk. 

Thomas  Hardyng  late  of  Ellesworth,  co.  Cambridge,  '  smyth,'  for  not 
appearing  to  answer  William  Kyng  touching  a  debt  of  40s, 

Hertford. 

William  Tankerd  of  Burghbrigge,  co.  York,  'gentilman,'  for  not 
appearing  when  sued  with  Richard  Preston  of  Aldeburgh  by 
Burghbrigge,  co.  York,  clerk,  as  executors  of  the  will  of  John  Pape, 
clerk,  to  answer  a  plea  that  they  render  40s.  to  William  Godehall. 

City  of  York. 

John  Martyn  late  of  Plympton,  co.  Sussex,  clerk,  alias  parson  of  the 
parish  church  of  Little  Waltham,  co.  Essex,  for  not  appearing 
before  Robert  Danby  and  his  fellows,  justices  of  the  Bench,  to 
answer  Thomas  Eyer,  citizen  and  draper  of  London,  lately  dwelling 
in  the  parish  of  St.  Bartholomew  the  Less,  London,  touching  a  debt 
of  10  marks.  London. 

Hugh  Philip  of  Rypton  Regis,  co.  Huntingdon,  clerk,  for  not  appearing 
before  the  justices  of  the  Bench  to  answer  John  Walter,  chaplain, 
touching  a  debt  of  40s.  Huntingdon. 

John  Roger  late  of  Oundell,  co.  Northampton,  '  yoman,'  for  not 
appearing  to  answer  Robert  Tanfeld  the  younger  touching  a  trespass, 

Bedford. 

Robert  Bray  late  of  Abyngdon,  co.  Berks,  '  hosteler,'  alias  '  yoman  ' 
alias  '  chapman,'  for  uot  appearing  to  answer  John  Blakbourne, 
citizen  and  *  talghchauudeler '  of  London,  touching  a  debt  of  77s. 
Thomas  Cook,  knight,  touching  debts  of  40/.,  19/.  18s.  9d.  and 
40/.  and  Robert  Tooke,  citizen  and  '  ireraonger '  of  London,  touching 
a  debt  of  12/.  London. 

Agues  Saxmondham  late  of  Leystoft,  co.  Suffolk,  '  senglewoman,' 
for  not  appearing  when  sued  with  William  Saxmondham,  late  of 
Leystoft,  *  niarchaunt,'  to  answer  Henry  Wyche,  citizen  and  '  ire- 
monger  '  of  London,  John  Nunney,  John  Ferrers  and  Henry  Heed 
touching  a  trespass.  Hertford 

Richard  Baten,  late  of  Bristol,  'goldsrayth,'  for  not  appearing  to 
answer  a  plea  that  he  render  a  gold  chain,  worth  20  marks,  to 
Richard  Mede.  Middlesex. 

Thomas  Benett  late  of  Abyndon,  co.  Berks,  '  chapman,'  alias  merchant, 
for  not  appearing  before  John  Prysot  and  his  felloAvs,  justices  of 
the  Bench  of  the  late  king,  to  answer  Thomas,  abbot  of  the  place  of 
St.  Edward,  Lettley,  co.  Southampton,  and  Peter  Howton  of  Hamuli 
in  le  Ryce,  co.  Southampton,  touching  a  debt  of  8/.  lis.  and 
Robert  Baker,  citizen  aud  '  beddnr '  of  Winchester,  touching  a 
debt  of  4/.  17s.,  and  before  the  justices  of  the  Bench  to  answer 


1468. 


Feb.  8. 

WestuiiuBtcr. 

Feb.  4. 

Westiuinster. 


Membrane  22 — cont. 

William  Purpyt  of  Croydon  and  Heury  Wenemau  alias  Wyneman  of 
Abyiidon  touching  debts  of  15/.  and  16/.  respefflively. 

Southampton,  Surrey  &  Berks. 
Geoffrey  Vale  of  Plynmouth,  co,  Devon, '  niarchaunt,'  for  not  ajjpearing 
before  the  .justices  of  tlie  Bench  to  answer  John  llcnkyn  touching  a 
debt  of  10/.  13*.  bd.  Londou. 

John  Ayleworth  of  Aldenham,  co,  Hertford,  *  mailman,'  for  not 
appearing  before  Robert  Danby  and  his  fellows,  justices  of  the 
Bench,  to  answer  a  plea  that  he  render  40s.  to  John  Wyke  and 
Margaret  his  wife,  executrix  of  the  will  of  Thomas  Croxton,  late  of 
Londou,  '  gentilman.'  '  Hertford. 


1467. 

Nov.  17. 
Westiuinster. 


Nov.  16. 

W  estiiiiuBtcr. 


Nov.  17. 

Westminster. 


Nov.  12. 
Westminster. 


Nov.  19. 
Westminster. 


Nov.  23. 

Wtstminster. 


Nov.  27. 
Westminster. 


Membrane  21. 

Philip.  Bergeveney  of  Hill  dome,  co.  Worcester,  clerk,  alius  late 
of  As.shelworth,  co.  (rloucester,  clerk,  for  not  apjiearing  before  llie 
justices  of  the  Bench  to  answer  a  plea  that  he  render  20  marks 
to  Thomas  Payne  and  William  Hunt,  e.xecutors  of  the  will 
of  Hugh  Plunt,  late  of  Forthampton,  co.  Gloucester,  clerk. 

Gloucester. 

John  Court  of  Wheteley,  co.  Somerset,  '  yoman,'  for  not  appearing 
before  the  king  to  answer  John  Carpenter,  clerk,  toucliin.^  a 
trespass.  Wilts. 

John  Gefferon  of  Overston  alias  Oveston,  co.  Northampton,  *  yoman,' 
for  not  appearing  before  .John  Prisot  ami  his  fellows,  justices  of  tlio 
Bench  of  the  late  king,  to  answer  Thomas  Clarell,  esquire,  alias  late 
of  Lyllyngston  Lovel,  co.  Oxford,  *  gentilman,'  touching  a  (lebt  of  10/. 

Oxford. 

William  Byrmynghum  of  Hyrmyngham,  co.  Warwick,  knight,  for  not 
appearing  before  the  justices  of  the  Bench  to  answer  Humphrey 
Stafford  of  Grafton,  esquire,  Isabel  lat(!  the  wife  of  William 
Leveson,  esquire,  and  John  Leuche,  esquire,  touching  a  debt  of 
40  marks,  Thomas  Walssh,  late  sheriff  of  Warwick,  touching  a  debt 
of  20/.  Ralph  Sudeley,  lord  of  Sudeley,  and  John  Stourton,  lord  of 
Stouiton,  knights,  touching  a  debt  of  14/.  John  Sutton,  lord  of 
lJuddeley,  knight,  touching  a  debt  of  10/.  Hugh  Fenne,  touching  a 
debt  of  ()/.  and  William  Haket,  '  gentilman,'  touching  a  debt  of  10/. 

Coventry,  Worcester,  Middlesex  &  London. 

William  Saxmondham  late  of  Leystoft,  co.  Suflblk,  '  marchaunt,'  for 
not  appearing  when  sued  with  Agnes  Saxmondham,  late  of  Leystoft, 
*  senglewoman,' to  answer  Henry  Wyche,  citizen  and  '  iremonger ' 
of  London,  John  Nunny,  John  Ferrers  and  Henry  Heed,  touching  a 
trespass.  Hertford. 

Richard  Lee  late  of  Barneslapolia,  co.  Devon,  '  touker,'  for  not 
appearing  to  answer  William  Joce  touching  a  debt  of  10/. 

Somerset. 

Rose  Hurley,  late  of  London,  '  wedowe,'  for  not  appealing  to  answer 
William  Hille,  citizen  and  mercer  of  London,  touching  a  debt  of  7/. 

IjOndon. 

Thomas  Scutford,  late  of  London,  '  corveser,'  alias  '  hakencyniau,' 
for  net  appearing  to  answer  Willium  Crouche  touching  a  debt  of  8/. 

Wilts, 


CALENDAK  OF  PATENT  ROLLS. 


1468. 

Jan.  28. 
Westuiiuster. 

.ran.  27. 

Westiiiiiislcr. 

Fel).  23. 
Westminster. 

Jan.  23. 
Westmiuster, 


Jan.  30. 
Westminster. 


Jan.  23, 
Westminster. 


1467. 

Nov.  20. 
Westminster, 

1468. 

Feb.  4. 

Westminster. 


Jan.  23. 
Westmiuster. 

Feb.  8. 
Westmiuster. 


Jan.  23. 
Westminster. 

Feb.  9. 

Westraiu'ter. 


Feb.  11. 
Westminster. 


Memhranc  21 — cont. 

John  Biyne,  late  of  Derby,  '  rojier,'  for  not  appearing  to  answer  William 
Overton,  alias  William  t^ou  of  Cicely  Teniar,  touching  u  debt  of 
4  marks.  Derby. 

Hugh  Dalby  late  of  Pylarton,  co.  Warwick,  '  gentilman,'  for  not 
appearing  to  answer  Hugh  Lynals  of  Sclaustou,  co.  Leicester, 
'  gentilman,'  touching  a  debt  of  100/.  Leicester. 

William  Kendale  late  of  Cambridge,  'roper,'  for  not  appearing  to 
answer  Hugh  Brooke  touching  a  trespass.  Middlesex, 

Benedict  Newman  of  Everton,  co.  Huntingdon,  'chaplain,'  for  not 
appearing  when  sued  with  Henry  Cram  well  of  Everton,  '  potter,' 
John  Koger  late  of  Oundell,  co.  Northampton,  '  yoman,'  John 
Preston  of  Everton,  '  husbondman,'  John  Naseby  of  London, 
'gentilman,'  and  John  Cramwell  of  Everton,  'potter,'  to  answer 
Robert  Tanfeld  the  younger  touching  a  trespass.  Bedford. 

Richard  Mason  of  Wesenham,  co.  Norfolk,  '  husbondman,'  for  not 
ap[)ea.ring  before  the  king  to  answer  Roger  Tounesendo,  Henry 
Russell  and  Thomas  Skyi)pon  touching  a  trespass.  Norfolk. 

John  Sayer  late  of  Neweton  Abbot,  co.  Devon, '  cliapman,'  for  not 
appearing  before  Robert  Danby  and  his  fellows,  justices  of  the  Bench, 
to  answer  Matthew  ClyflT,  citizen  and  draper  of  London,  touching  a 
debt  of  40s.  Middlesex, 

John  Stukley  late  of  Newenham,  co.  Southampton,  '  gentilman,'  for 
not  appearing  before  the  justices  of  the  Bench  to  answer  John 
Felder  touching  a  trespass^  Middlesex. 

John  Stucley  of  Newenham,  co.  Southampton,  '  gentilman,'  for  not 
appearing  before  the  king  to  answer  William  Spencer  touching  a 
trespass.  Hertford. 

Richard  Canne  of  Okhampton,  co.  Devon,  'wever,'  for  not  appearing 
before  Richard  Neuton  and  his  fellows,  justices  of  the  Bench  of  the 
late  king,  to  answer  Robert  atte  Lake  touching  a  trespass.  Devon. 

William  Betriche  late  of  Bolyngiope,  co.  Hereford,  '^husbondman,'  for 
not  appearing  before  the  justices  of  the  Bench  to  answer  Thomas 
Peny  touching  a  debt  of  20/.  Middlesex. 

Isabel  Castell  late  of  Peterburgh,  co.  Northampton,  '  wedowe,'  and 
.John  Castell  late  of  Peto'burghj  'gentilman,'  executors  of  the  will  of 
William  Castell  late  of  Peterburgh,  '  gentilman,'  for  not  appearing 
to  answer  a  plea  that  they  render  10/.  to  John  Renkyn,  citizen  and 
mercer  of  London.  London. 

Richard  Arsses  of  Bristol,  esquire,  for  not  appearing  to  answer  John 
Porter,  citizen  and  draper  of  London,  touching  a  debt  of  8/. 

London. 

Richard  Grenewey  late  of  New  Wyndesore,  co.  Berks,  '  chapman,'  for 
not  appearing  to  answer  a  plea  that  he  render  a  writing  obligatory  to 
Thomas  Bernard,  '  skynuer,'  and  Joan  his  wife,  late  the  Avife  of 
Richard  Warwyke,  citizen  and  skinner  of  London,  of  the  parish  of 
St.  Stephen's,  Walbroke,  London,  who  died  intestate,  and  adminis- 
tratrix of  his  goods.  London. 

Robert  Este,  bachelor  in  law,  late  of  Oxford,  clerk,  son  of  Henry  Est, 
for  not  appearing  to  answer  John  Gregory  of  Winchester,  co. 
Southampton,  touching  a  debt  of  9  marks,  Southampton, 


7  EDWARD  IV,— Part  I, 


Membrane  21 — cont. 

John  Plecclier  of  Tamwoi  th,  co.  Warwick,  '  barker,'  for  not  appearing 
to  answer  Nicholas  Rylaajes  and  John  Wolshawe  touching  a  cli;bt  of 
40/.  Stafford. 

Membrase  20. 

Jolin  Trope  of  Dukkesworth,  co.  Cambridge,  Minsboudinan,'  alias 
John  Trope  the  elder  sou  of  John  Trope  the  elder,  late  of 
Dukkesworth, '  husbondman,'  for  not  appearing  to  answer  a  plea  that 
he  render  40f.  to  Agnes,  lale  the  wife  of  John  Howard,  eiti/.eu  and 
fishmonger  of  London,  late  of  Oldfyschestret,  Loudon,  and  executrix 
of  his  will.  London 

William  Crowe  of  Litelstoughton,  co.  Bedford,  '  husbondman,'  for  not 
appearing  before  Robert  Danby  and  his  fellows,  justices  of  the 
Bench,  to  answer  a  plea  that  he  render  10/.  to  Richard  Ryppley, 
citizen  and  '  tournour  '  of  London,  executor  of  the  will  of  Richard 
Payn,  late  of  Elinestowe,  '  mason.'  Bedford. 

John  More  late  of  More,  co.  Oxford,  esquire,  for  not  appearing  before 
the  justices  of  the  Bench  to  an.svver  John  Goldwell,  citizen  and 
mercer  of  London,  touching  a  debt  of  40s.  London. 

John  Lock,  late  of  London,  clerk,  for  not  appearing  to  answer  John 
DroAvell,  clerk,  touching  a  debt  of  6  marks.  London. 

Thomas  Broune  late  of  Gosberkirk,  co,  Lincoln,  clerk,  for  not 
appearing  to  render  hi.s  account  to  Richard  White  for  the  time  when 
ho  was  his  receiver.  Lincoln. 

Richard  Pykeryng  of  Assheley,  co.  Northampton,  '  gentilman,'  for  not 
appearing  to  answer  Robert  Tanfeld  the  younger,  esquire,  touching 
a  debt  of  9/.  4*.  Bedford. 

Richard  Wynton  of  Bolton  on  Derne,  co.  York,  chaplain,  for  not 
appearing  to  answer  Thomas  Neylson  or  Neleson,  citizen  and 
merchant  of  York,  touching  a  debt  of  40s,  City  of  York. 

William  Janyver  late  of  Clanei'eld,  co.  Oxford,  '  husbondman,'  for  not 
appearing  to  answer  William  Garnon  touching  a  debt  of  4  marks. 

Oxford. 

Richard  Darset  late  of  Banncbury,  co,  Oxford,  *  fysshemonger,'  alias 
of  liloxham,  co.  Oxford,  for  not  appearing  to  answer  John  Forster 
of  Loudon,  '  skynner,'  touching  a  debt  of  20/.  London, 

William  Cottesbroko  lato  of  Appultre,  co,  Northampton,  'husbond- 
man,' for  not  appearing  before  John  Prysot  and  his  fellows,  justices 
of  the  Bench  of  the  late  king,  to  answer  Roger  Gour,  clerk, 
touching  a  debt  of  10/,  Worcester. 

Edward  Elnoth  late  of  Toiitorden,  co.  Kent,  *  fuller,'  for  not  appearing 
to  answer  Richard  Leo,  citizen  and  alderman  of  London,  touching  a 
debt  of  40s.  London. 

.lohn  Horde  late  of  Wokysbrcgge,  co.  Middlesex,  'gentilman,'  steward 
of  the  household  of  the  lord  of  Straunge,  for  not  appearing  before 
the  justices  of  the  JJonch  lo  answer  Robert  Donyngton  alias 
Dodyngtou,  citizen  vintner  of  London,  touching  a  debt  of  AOs. 

London. 

John  Shipherd  of  Aysshehull,  co.  Somerset,  '  husbondman,'  for  not 
appearing  before  Robert  Danby,  knight,  and  his  fellows,  justices  of 
tho  Bench,  to  answer  Henry  Hull,  estjuire,  touching  a  debt  of  10/. 

Somerset, 


10  CALENDAR  OP  PATENT  ROLLS. 


1467. 
Nov.  7. 
WeBtminster. 


Nov.  14. 
Westminster. 


Not.  12. 

Westminster. 


Nov.  11. 
Westminster. 


Nov.  12. 
Westminster. 


Nov.  11. 

Westminster. 


Nov.  15. 
Westminster. 


Oct.  11. 

Westminster. 


Oct.  9. 

Westminster. 


Membrane  20 — cont. 

John  Perkyns  late  of  Ruge,  co.  Hertford,  '  laborer,'  for  not  appearing 
when  sued  with  Siinou  Buruell  late  of  Ruge,  'laborer,' to  answer 
John  Wentworth,  '  gentilman,'  touching  a  debt  of  40*. 

John  Gowyn  of  Cratfeld,  co.  Suffolk,  '  taillour,'  for  not  appearing 
before  the  justices  of  the  Bench  to  answer  Robert  Clyfton,  esquire, 
touching  a  debt  of  8  marks.  Norfolk. 

John  Lyte  late  of  Trompyngton,  co.  Cambridge,  'miller,'  for  not 
appearing  to  answer  Walter  Trompyngton,  knight,  touching  a  debt 
of  10  marks.  Bedford. 

John  Corbrond  of  Asshyn,  co.  Northampton,  '  chapman,'  for  not 
appearing  before  John  Prysot  and  his  fellows,  justices  of  the  Bench 
of  the  late  king,  to  answer  John  Chacombe,  citizen  and  mercer  of 


London,  touching  a  debt  of  6/.  2s.  2|i/. 


Loudon, 


James  Robynson  of  Estwykeham,  co.  Kent,  '  husbondman,'  for  not 
appearing  before  the  justices  of  the  Bench  to  answer  Thomas  Gay 
the  elder,  citizen  and  tailor  of  London,  touching  a  debt  of  40^. 

London. 

William  Browne  of  Repton,  co.  Derby,  '  gentilman,'  for  not  appearing 
before  the  justices  of  the  Bench  of  the  late  king,  to  answer  William 
Plompton,  knight,  touching  a  debt  of  20/.  Derby. 

William  Wattys  of  Newetony,  co.  Wilts,  'husbondman,'  for  not 
appearing  before  John  Prysot  and  his  fellows,  justices  of  the  Bench 
of  the  late  king,  to  answer  Thomas  Holbroke  of  Bysshopesthewe. 
CO.  Somerset,  '  hu.sbondman,'  touching  a  debt  of  10/.  Somerset. 

Richard  Bromraeley  of  Byrmyngham,  co.  Warwick,  '  yoman,'  for  not 
appearing  before  the  justices  of  the  Bench  when  sued  with  John 
Hare  late  of  Egebaston,  co.  Warwick, '  wright,'  and  John  Middelmore 
late  of  Kyngesnorton,  co.  Warwick,  '  gentilman,'  to  answer  Thomas 
Littelton  touching  a  trespass.  Worcester. 

John  George  late  of  Frome  in  Selwode,  co.  Somerset,  '  touker,'  for 
not  appearing  to  answer  John  Maunche  of  London,  '  draper,' 
touching  a  debt  of  111.9.  London. 

John  Grubbe  of  Birlyng,  co.  Kent,  '  husbondman,'  for  not  appearing 
before  John  Prysot  and  his  fellow#,  justices  ef  the  Bench  of  the  late 
king,  to  answer  John,  abbot  of  St.  Saviour's,  Bermundesey,  touching 
a  debt  of  20/.  Surrey. 

William  Lyndall  late  of  Cheryburton,  co.  York,  '  gentilman,' for  not 
appearing  before  the  justices  of  the  Bench  to  answer  Richard 
Wakefeld  touching  a  trespass  committed  by  him  and  Thomas 
Blankynson  of  Helbek,  co.  Westmoreland,  esquire,  Thomas 
Donyngton  of  Blaktofte,  co.  York,  '  yoman,'  Ralph  Byrnand  of 
Blaktofte,  '  gentilman,'  and  Edmund  Cotyngham,  late  of  Raventhorp, 
CO.  York,  'yoman.'  York. 

Richard  Pleystowe  late  of  Rencomb,  co.  Gloucester,  clerk,  for  not 
appearing  to  answer  a  plea  that  he  render  a  book  worth  5  marks  to 
Thomas,  prior  of  Bathe.  Somerset. 

John  Yonge  late  of  Syde,  co.  Gloucester,  '  laborer,'  for  not  appearing 
before  Robert  Danby  and  his  fellows,  justices  of  the  Bench,  to 
answer  Robert  Brokwode  touching  a  trespass  committed  by  him 
and  Walter  Large  of  Brymmesfeld,  co.  Gloucester,  '  laborer,'  and 
William  Fayranter  late  of  Slokwell,  co,  Gloucester,  tho  younger, 
'  laborer.'  Gloucester. 


7  EDWARD  IV.— Part  I. 


11 


1467.  Membrane  20 — cont. 

Oct.  17.  John  Fizth  Kichard  late  of  Wellys,  co.  Somerset,  'gentilman,'  for  not 

Westminster.  appearing  before  the  justices  of  the  Bench  to  answer  John  Worsop, 

citizen  and  draper  of  London,  touching  a  debt  of  9/.  London. 

Nov.  20.  William  Btibbecombe  late  of  Babbecombe  co.  Devon,  *  gentilman,'  for 

Westminster.  not  appearing  to  answer  John  Wynell  touching  a  debt  of  40s. 

Middlesex. 


Membrane  19. 

Dec.  20.  Grant  to  Gerard  Canizani  of  Florence,  merchant,  in  repayment  of  the 
Do((meisfiel.l.  sum  of  8,468/.  1 8s.  8(1.  due  to  him  from  the  king,  that  he  or  liis  executor.s 
after  his  death  or  their  factors  or  attorneys  may  have  all  sums  of  money, 
rents,  profits  and  emoluments  arising  frtim  a  moiety  of  all  wards,  marriages, 
reliefs,  escheats,  forfeitures,  custodies  of  heirs  dtiring  minority  and  tem- 
poralities of  ecclesiastical  benefices  and  all  customs  and  subsidies  in  the 
ports  of  London,  Southampton,  Sandwich,  Bristol,  Exeter,  Dartmouth, 
Plymniouth,  Fowey  and  Pole,  the  customs  and  subsidies  appointed  for  the 
mayor  and  society  of  the  staple  of  Calais  excepted,  and  may  l)eard,  clack  or 
clean  wools  and  ship  sacks  aud  bales  of  wool,  woollen  cloths  and  pieces  of 
tin  and  lead  in  any  of  the  said  ports  and  take  them  to  foreign  parts  by  the 
straits  of  Marrok  or  from  thence  to  England  to  the  said  ports  quit  of  customs 
and  subsidies  at  the  rate  of  4  marks,  until  he  shall  thus  be  satisfied  of  the 
said  gum,  with  power  to  nominate  a  suitable  person  to  the  treasurer  of 
England  for  appointment  as  customer  or  collector  in  any  of  the  said  ports. 

By  p.s. 


Mehurane  18. 

May  6.        Exemplification,  at  the  request  of  William,  abljot  of  Stonlee,  co.  Warwick, 

Westminster,  of  the  tenor  of  the  enrolment  of  letters  patent  dated  10  Octoljer,  10  Edward 
111.,  inspecting  the  tenor  of  a  record  and  process  before  the  king  at 
Nottingham,  Michaelmas,  10  Edward  III.,  whereby  the  abbot  and  convent 
are  exempted  from  granting  sustenances  at  the  king's  request. 

June  16.  Grant  for  life  to  John  West,  for  his  good  service  in  the  King's  Bench  and 
Westminster,  elsewhere,  of  the  offices  of  coroner  and  attorney  of  the  king  in  the  said 
Bench,  receiving  the  accustomed  fees  and  wages  at  the  Exchequer  as  in  the 
last  year  of  JOdward  III.  aud  the  first  of  Richard  II.  Thomas  Croxton, 
who  hekl  the  said  offices  during  good  behaviour  by  letters  patent,  died  on 
30  Jun«,  5  Edward  IV.,  and  on  the  following  day  Thomas  Vynter  appeared 
before  the  king  at  Westminster  and  produced  letters  patent  to  the  said 
Thomas  and  himself  of  the  said  offices  and  sought  to  be  admitted  to  the 
offices,  but  on  mature  deliberation  by  the  justices  of  the  King's  Bench  and 
the  Common  Bench  ho  was  declared  unfit  and  insufficient  and  the  oflices 
were  declared  to  be  in  the  king's  grant  and  the  said  John  declared  to  be  a 
fit  person  to  hold  them.  By  p.s. 

.Jtme  18.  General  pardon  to  Master  John  Bedon  alius  Bedown  alias  Bedun,  clerk. 
Westminster.  Qy  p.g. 

June  22.       Ratification  of  the  estate  which  John  Faukcs,  king's  clerk,  has  as  warden 
Westminster,  or  dean  of  the  king's  free  chapel  of  St.  Mary  and  S.S.  George  the 
Martyr  and  Edward  the  Confessor  ^vithin  the  castle  of  Windesore. 

By  p.s. 

June  27.  General  pardon  to  John  Gray  of  Kingeston  on  Hull,  co.  York,  alias  late 
We.stminster.  of  York,  '  scryvcner '  a/e'as  '  bruer.'  By  p.s. 

April  18.  Pardon  to  William  atte  Welle  the  younger  of  his  outlawry  in  the  county 
Westminster,  of  Bedford  for  not  appearing  before  the  king  to  satisfy  him  of  his  ransom 


12 


CALENDAR  OF  PATENT  BOLLS. 


Membrane  17. 

for  a  tresp.iss  committed  against  William  atte  Welle  the  elder  against  the 
peace  of  Heury  VI.  he  having  surrendered  to  the  Marshalsea  prison  as 
John  Markham,  chief  justice  of  the  King's  Bench,  has  certified. 

April  21.       General  pardon  to  Richard  Waryn,  late  of  Boston,  co.  Lincoln,  '  yoman,' 
WrNiininstcr.  alias  late  of  Bedford,  co.  Lincoln,  alias  Richard  RatclyfF,  late  of  Boston, 
CO.  Lincoln,  of  all  offences  committed  by  him  before  2  April,  By  p.s. 

April  7.        Licence,  for  100/.  paid  to  the  king,  for  Ralph  Wolseley  or  his  executors 
WcstiuinRter.  after  his  death,  or  their  factors  or  attorneys,  to  cut  down  and  sell  the  king's 
wood  and  underwood  called  '  Ilopwaswode,'  alias  '  HopAvashay,'  sometime 
parcel  of  the  king's  forest  of  Cannok,  co.  Stafford,  whensoever  he  pleases 
within  the  next  six  years,  without  rendering  any  account.  By  K, 

Ajnil  9.  Grant  to  Adrian  de  Bardes,  born  in  Brabant,  son  of  Bernard  de  Bardes, 
Westniiuster.  citizen  of  Florence,  of  letters  of  denization.  By  K. 

March  1.5.  Licence,  for  40  marks  paid  in  the  hanaper,  for  John  Dynham,  esquire, 
Westminster,  and  Elizabeth,  late  the  wife  of  John  Rattcclyff  of  Fitz  Wauter,  esquire,  to 
grant  to  Richard  lUyngworth,  knight,  John  Say,  knight,  and  Thomas 
Ursewyk  the  manors  of  Hemnale  and  Dysse,  co.  Norfolk,  Shymplyng  and 
Thurstonton,  co.  Suffolk,  and  Henham,  Wymbussh,  Lexden,  Sheryng, 
Burneham,  Asshedon,  Little  Dunmowe,  W^odeham  Wauter  and  Roydon, 
CO.  Essex,  held  in  chief,  and  for  these  to  re-grant  the  same  to  the  said  John 
and  Elizabeth  and  her  heirs. 

April  21.  Exemption  for  life  of  John  Elmes  of  Henley  on  Thames,  co.  Oxford, 
Weslniinster.  merchant,  from  being  put  on  assizes,  juries,  inquisitions,  attaints  or 
recognisances  and  from  being  made  justice  of  the  peace,  of  sewers,  of  oyer 
and  terminer,  of  gaol  delivery  or  of  the  forest  or  other  commissioner  or 
inquisitor  of  the  king,  admiral,  mayor,  guardian,  sheriff,  escheator,  coroner, 
steward,  bailiff,  leeve,  receiver,  customer,  controller,  taxer,  ulnager, 
searcher,  gauger,  approver,  collector  of  subsidies,  tenths,  fifteenths  or  aids, 
constable,  warden,  marshal,  usher,  leader,  arrayer  or  trier  of  men-at-arms, 
hobelers  or  archers  or  other  ofiicer  or  minister  of  the  king,  and  from  being 
compelled  to  take  up  knighthood,  and  from  having  his  horses,  carts  and 
goods  taken  by  the  king's  purveyors.  By  p.s. 

Pardon  to  Henry  Taillour  late  of  Wychenore,  co.  Stafford,  *  yoman,' 
of  his  outlawry  in  the  county  of  Stafford  for  not  appearing  before  John 
Prysot  and  his  fellows,  justices  of  the  Bench  of  the  late  king,  to  satisfy 
John  Gresley,  knight,  of  20/.  which  he  recovered  against  him  and  GO.v. 
damages,  he  having  surrendered  to  the  Flete  prison,  as  Robert  Danby, 
knight,  chief  justice  of  the  Bench,  has  certified. 

Pardon  to  William  Harecourt  of  Maysloke,  co.  Warwick,  knight,  late 
insler.  sheriff  of  Warwick  and  Leicester,  late  esquire,  of  all  offences  committed  by 
him  before  17  February  last  and  all  fines,  amercements,  issiies,  reliefs, 
scutages,  debts,  accounts  and  arrears  due  to  the  king.  By  p.s. 


April  26. 

Westiniiisicr 


April  27 

W'efliii 


Membuane  16. 

Aprd  15.  Pardon  to  Robert  Coruewall  of  Chirchestaunton,  co.  Devon,  clerk,  alias 
AYtstiiiiiitter.  Robert  Cornewale  late  of  Cherystaunton,  co.  Devon,  clerk,  of  his  outlawry 
in  the  counties  of  Somerset  and  Devon  for  not  appearing  before  John 
Prysot  and  his  fellows,  justices  of  the  Bench  of  the  late  king,  to  satisfy 
John  Clyff  and  Nicholas  Wynde  of  20  marks  which  they  recovered  against 
him  and  10/.  damages,  and  before  Robert  Danby,  knight,  and  his  fellows, 
justices  of  the  Bench,  to  answer  Richard  Duke  touching  a  debt  of  40*.  4(/., 
he  having  surrendered  to  the  Flete  prison  and  satisfied  the  said  John  and 
Nicholas,  as  the  said  Robert  has  certified. 


7  EDWARD  IV.— Part  I. 


13 


1467.  Membrane  16 — cont. 

April  29.  Inspcxhnus  and  confirmation  to  the  prior  and  canons  of  St.  John  Baptist, 
Westminster.  Bedford,  of  a  charter  of  Henry  II.  as  follows  : — 

Henricus  Dei  gratia  rex  Any  lie  et  dux  Normannie  et  Aqiiitannie  ct 
comes  Ander/avie,  aichiepiscopis,  episcopis,  abbatibus,  comitihus, 
baronibus,  justiciariis,  vicecomitibus  et  omnibus  ministris  et  jidelibus 
suis  saJutem.  Sciatis  me  concessisse  et  presenti  carta  confirmasse 
priori  et  meis  pauperibus  canonicis  Sancti  Johannis  Baptiste  de 
Bedeford  omnes  donationes  terrarum  et  Jiomimim  et  elimosinarum  que 
eis  facte  sunt,  tam  in  ecclesiis  quam  in  rebus  etpossessionibus  mundanis. 
Quare  volo  et  firmiter  jjrecipio  quod  predicti  canonici  et  eorum 
homines  omnes  possessiones  et  elimosinas  suas  habeant  et  teneant  cum 
sacha  et  socha  et  tol  et  theam  et  infangentthf  et  cum  omnibus  aliis 
libertalibus  et  libcris  consuetudinibus  et  quietanciis  suis  in  bosco  et 
piano,  in  pratis  et  pasturis,  in  aquis  ct  molendinis,  in  stagnis  et 
vivariis,  in  mariscis  et  piscariis,  iti  grangis,  in  virgultis,  infra  burgum 
rl  extra,  infra  villam  et  extra,  in  viis  et  semitis  et  in  omnibus  aliis 
locis  et  aliis  rebus,  solittas  ct  liberas  et  quietas  de  siris  et  hundredis  ct 
placitis  ct  querelis  et  de  murdris  ct  wapentachis  et  scutagio,  geldis  et 
denegcldis  et  hidagiis  et  assisis  et  operation ibus  castellorum  et  pontium 
et  de  hengwita  et  flesmclenscnwita  et  de  ivardcpeni  et  de  auerpeni  et 
de  blodwita.  et  de  futwita  et  de  hundrcpeni  et  de  tethinpeni,  et  quietas 
de  omni  tholneo  et  passagiis  et  pontagiis  et  lestagio  ct  staltagio  et  de 
omni  scculari  scrvicio  el  opere  scrvili  el  exactione  et  de  omnibus  aliis 
occasionibus  et  consuetudinibus  scculartbus,  e.rcepta  sola  justicia  mortis 
et  membrorum.  Ilec  omnia  concessi  eis  in  pcrpetuam  elimosinam  pro 
Dei  amore  et  pro  anima  regis  H.  avi  mei,  et  pro  anima  patris  mci  ct 
viatris  mee,  Imperatricis,  et  liberorum  el  hercdum  meorum.  T.  Ricardo 
Winloniensi  episcopo,  JValtcro  de  Consl\^anciis^,  Rnnulpho  de 
Glan[villa'\,  lieginaldo  dc  Knrten[ai/^,  Hngone  de  Belloc,  apud 
Wintoniam.  For  1  mark  paid  in  the  hanaper. 

Mandate  to  all  bailiffs  and  others  to  permit  Patrick  Cloughston,  chaplain, 
born  in  Wigtoti  in  Galewey  in  Scotland,  dwelling  at  Sliopeland,  co.  Essex, 
to  inhabit  the  realm  peaceably  and  enjoy  his  gooils.  By  p.s. 

General  pardon  to  John  Badniynton  late  of  Ai)pul(lore,  co.  Kent, 
'  gentilman,'  of  all  offences  committed  by  him  before  10  April.  By  p.s. 

The  like  lo  James  Davy  bite  of  Little  Plunistcd,  co.  Norfolk,  '  laborer,'  of 
all  offences  conmiitteil  by  him  before  All  Saints  last.  By  p.s. 

Licence,  lor  2()s,  i*d.  |)aid  in  the  hanaper,  for  Joan,  late  the  wife  of 
Robert  Warcop,  cscpiirc,  William  Spencer,  clerk,  and  John  Wathe  to  grant 
the  manor  of  Langhohnn,  twelve  messuages,  200  acres  of  land,  20  acres  of 
meadow,  100  acres  of  pastnre,  20  acres  of  wood  and  20.y.  of  rent,  in  Langholme, 
Garanielsby,  Kanghton,  Gatescales,  Blenkoogo,  Ncwelandes,  Broniefeld, 
Blaketwhayte,  Crokeilake,  Hul)er(lby,  Bocherdby,  Borough  by  Sandes, 
Carlile,  Thornby,  Caldlutk,  Soureby  and  Skirwitli,  and  a  moiety  of  the  manor 
of  Uannnelsby,  CO.  Cumberland,  held  in  chief,  to  Robert  Warcop,  esquire, 
Thomas  Warcop,  clerk,  and  Matlliew  (ircne,  clerk,  and  the  heirs  and  assigns 
of  the  said  Robert. 

July  6.         General  pardon  to  Joan,  late  the  wife;  of  Thomas  Swete  of  Bradford  by 
WestininstcT.  Yevell,  co.  Dorset,  '  glusier,'  of  all  offences  committed  by  her  before  2  July 
iind  all  tines,  amercements  and  arrears  due  to  the  king.  By  p.s. 


May  1. 

Westminster 


April  29. 
Westminster. 

May  2. 
Westminster. 

May  .5. 
Westminster. 


May  .3.  In.spc.vimUs  and  conlirmation  to  William,  the  prior,  and  the  convent  of 
Westminster,  St.  James,  Bristol,  of  letters  patent  dated  11  February,  20  Richard  J  I., 


14 


CALENDAR  OF  PATENT  ROLLS. 


1467. 


May  4. 
Westminster 


April  20. 
Westminster. 


May  4. 
Westminster. 


June  27. 
Westminster. 


June  29. 
Westminster. 


March  5. 

Westminster. 

March  17. 
AVestmiuster. 

March  14. 

Westminster. 


April  14. 
Westminster. 


iMarch  2G. 
Westminster. 


April  7. 
Westminster. 


JMembrunc  15 — conf. 

inspecting  and  confiiTning  a  charter  dated  at  Carlisle,  1  July,  2S  Edward  I. 
[Charier  Roll,  28  Edward  J.  No.  17],  inspecting  and  confirming  a  charter 
of  Henry  II.  For  40*.  paid  in  the  hanapcr. 

Inspexhnus  and  confirmation  to  John  Curson,  knight,  kinsman  and 
heir  of  Thomas  de  Felton,  of  a  charter  dated  at  Westminster,  7  July, 
.30  Edward  I.  (rectins  III.),  granting  to  the  said  Thomas  and  his  heirs  free 
warren  in  the  demesne  lands  of  their  manors  of  Wilby,  co.  Norfolk,  and 
Barwe  and  Ikne,  co.  Suffolk.    [Charter  Roll,  36  Edward  III.  No.  18.] 

For  ^  mark  paid  in  the  hanaper. 

Licence  for  John  Goryng,  Humphrey  Henster  and  Thomas  Best  and 
their  heirs  and  executors  to  found  a  perpetual  chantry  to  the  Holy  Trinity 
and  St.  Richard,  of  one  chaplain  to  celebrate  divine  service  daily  at  the 
altar  of  St.  George  within  the  cathedral  church  of  Chichester,  co.  Sussex,  for 
the  good  estate  of  the  king  and  his  consort  Elizabeth,  queen  of  England,  and 
the  said  John,  Humphrey  and  Thomas  and  for  their  souls  after  death  and 
the  souls  of  William  Okehurst,  John  Okehurst,  Cicely  his  wife  and  their 
)-e]ations  and  benefactors  and  all  for  whom  the  said  William  is  bound  to 
pray,  to  be  called  the  chantry  of  William  Okehurst,  and  for  the  alienation 
in  mortmain  by  them  to  the  said  chaplain  of  lands  and  possessions,  not  held 
in  chief,  to  the  yearly  value  of  10/.  for  his  sustenance  and  the  performance 
of  certain  works  of  charity.  By  p.s.  and  for  20/.  paid  in  the  hanaper. 

Grant  for  life  to  John  Pesemersh,  king's  knight,  and  Dame  Joan  his 
wife  of  two  tuns  of  red  wine  of  Gascony  yearly  at  Christmas  from  the 
king's  prises  in  the  port  of  London,  in  recompence  of  a  grant  to  them  in 
the  first  year  of  the  reign  of  an  annuity  of  20  marks  out  of  the  issues  of  the 
king's  manor  and  lordship  of  Pembrigge,  co.  Hereford,  annulled  by  authority 
of  Parliament  at  Westminster.  By  p  a. 

General  pardon  to  John  Markaunt  late  of  Saunford,  co.  Oxford, 
'  husbondman  '  alias  '  yoman,'  alias  late  of  Yefteley,  co.  Oxford,  '  fermour,' 
of  all  offences  committed  by  him  and  of  his  escape  from  Oxford  gaol. 

By  p.s. 

General  pardon  to  Henry  Carnebole  late  of  London,  *  gontilman.' 

By  p.s. 

Membrane  14. 

General  pardon  to  Thomas  Cornewayll  of  Calaig,  ^  goldsmyth,'  of  all 
offences  committed  by  him  before  28  February.  By  p.s. 

General  pardon  (o  Roland  Kyrkeby  late  of  Bolton  in  Furness,  co. 
Lancaster,  esquire,  of  all  offences  committed  by  him  before  13  March. 

ByK. 

General  pardon  to  John  Beston  late  of  Fratnelyngham  Castle,  co.  Suffolk, 
'  yonian,'  alias  John  Beeston  late  of  Ipswich,  co.  Suffolk,  '  geiitilmau,'  alias 
late  of  Hawnes,  co.  Bedford, '  parker,'  of  all  offences  committed  by  him  before 
4  jNIarch.  By  K. 

Mandate  to  all  to  permit  Richard  Govan,  chaplain,  born  in  the  town  of 
Abunlyne  in  Scotland,  dwelling  at  Mayloiid,  co.  Essex,  who  has  taken 
the  oath  of  allegiance,  to  inhabit  the  realm  poaccablv  and  enjoy  his  goods. 

By  K. 

Licence  for  the  president  and  convent  of  the  C'luniac  monastery  of 
Montncutc,  in  tlie  diocese  of  Bath  and  Wells,  to  elect  a  prior  in  the  place 
of  Robert  Criche,  deceased. 

Licence,  loi  lOt)/.  paid  to  llic  king,  lor  i\al[]h  Wolscley  or  his  executors 
after  his  decease  or  their  factors  or  attorneys  to  cut  down  and  sell  the  king's 


7  EDWARD  IV.— Part  I. 


15 


14G7.  Membram  14 — cont. 

wood  and  iinderwood  called  '  Hopwaawode '  aliui  '  Hopwashay '  sometime 
parcel  of  the  king's  forest  of  Cannok,  co.  StatFord,  whensoever  he  pleases 
within  the  next  six  years,  without  rendering  any  account.  By  K. 

April  11.  Mandate  to  the  escheator  in  the  counties  of  Somerset  and  Dorset  for 
Westminster,  the  restitution  of  the  temporalities  of  the  Cluniac  priory  of  S.S.  Peter 
and  Paul,  Moutacute,  in  the  diocese  of  Bath  and  Wells,  to  John 
Dore,  monk  of  the  house,  whom  John  Water,  the  sub-prior,  and  the 
convent  have  elected  prior  in  the  place  of  Dan  Robert  Criche,  deceased, 
and  whose  fealty  the  king  has  ordered  to  be  taken  by  the  abbot  of 
Mochelney. 

The  like  to  the  cscheators  in  the  counties  named  :— 
Southampton  and  Wilts. 
Devon. 
Cornwall. 

Gloucester  and  the  march  of  Wales  adjacent. 
Writ  de  ititendendo  in  pursuance  to  the  tenants. 

Nov.  10.        Appointment,  during  pleasure,  of  Christopher  Fourneys  as  controller  of 
Westminster,  the  great  and  petty  custom,  the  subsidy  of  wools,  hides  and  wool-fells  and 
the  subsidy  of  the  3*.  in  the  tun  and  the  12c?.  in  the  pound,  in  the  port  of 
Chichester  and  ports  and  places  adjacent,  provided  that  he  execute  the 
office  in  person,  with  the  custody  of  one  part  of  the  coket  seal. 

By  bill  of  the  treasurer. 

Oct.  21.        The  like  of  the  following  :— 
Westminster.         John  Dyve  in  the  port  of  Boston  and  ports  and  places  adjacent. 

By  bill  of  the  treasurer. 

1468. 

Jan.  7.  Robert  Radclyff  in  the  port  of  Ipswich  and  port.s  and  places  adjacent. 

Westminster.  By  bill  of  the  treasurer. 

1467_  Membrane  13. 

May  19.        Licence  for  the  sub-prior  and  canons  of  the  monastery  of  Ivychurch,  in 
WtstiiiinHcr.  the  dioccsc  of  Salisbury,  to  elect  a  prior  in  the  place  of  Rol>ert  Stokys,  last 
prior,  resigned. 

Licence  for  the  prior  and  convent  of  the  monastery  of  Evesham  to 
elect  an  abbot  in  the  place  of  Richard  Penbroke,  last  abbot,  deceased. 

By  p.s. 

May  19.        Grant  to  Master  John  Shirwode,  clerk,  of  the. custody  of  the  hosi)ital  of 
Westminster.  St.  Nicholas  in  the  suburbs  of  York  and  appointment  of  him  for  life 
as  master  or  warden  of  the  liospital,  in  lieu  of  a  like   grant   to  and 
appointment  of  Thomas  Usburn,  brother  of  the  hospital  of  St.  Leonard, 
York,  by  letters  patent  dated  12  Februar}',  1  lulward  IV.  surrendered. 

ByK. 

May  5.         Pardon  to  Philip  Devolyn  of  the  town  of  Galewey  in  Ireland,  king's 
Wes(miiistcr.   tenant,  for  the  death  of  William  Omorywyd,  Irishman,  an  enemy  of  the 
king,  whom  he  killed  in  .self-defence,  and  all  other  trespasses  committed  I)y 
him,  and  release  to  him  of  all  his  lands  and  goods.  By  K. 

Juno  21.        Signification  to  R.  bishop  of  Salisbury  of  the  royal  assent;  to  the  election 
Westminster,  of  Ildwanl  Tliach:im,  canon  of  the  priory  of  Ivycluirch,  as  prior  of  that 
jilacf. 

INIay  4.         Grant  to  the  king's  kiiisni;in  George,  archbialnp  of  York,  that  he  and 
Wcstminstoi.  ilis  successors  may  have  prisons  or  gaols  in  the  towns  and  lord.sliips  of 
Beverley  and  Rypon,  co.  York,  and  power  of  appointing  justices  of  tlie 
pcaco  and  of  oyer  and  terminer  and  gaol  delivery  withiu  those  towns.  And 


16 


CALENDAR  OF  PATENT  ROLLS. 


1467. 


July  1. 

Westminster. 


July  II. 

Westminster. 


July  6. 
Westminster. 

July  8, 
Westminster. 


Membrane  13 — cont. 
pardon  to  bim  of  all  fines,  amercements,  issues,  debts,  accounts  and  arrears 
due  from  him  to  the  king.  By  p.s. 

Mandate  to  the  escheator  in  the  counties  of  Southampton  and  Wilts  for 
the  restitution  of  the  temporalities  of  the  priory  of  Ivychurch  to  Dan 
Edward  Thacham,  canon  of  that  place,  whose  election  as  prior  Adam 
Copyndale,  clerk,  vicar-general  of  R.  bishop  of  Salisbury,  has  confirmed, 
and  whose  fealty  the  king  has  ordered  to  be  taken  by  John  Cranbouru, 
clerk. 

Writ  de  intendendo  in  pursuance  to  the  tenants. 

Protection  with  clause  volumus,  for  one  year,  for  John  Busshell  late  of 
Little  Wormyngton,  co.  Gloucester,  '  wolman '  alias  *  wolmarchaunt '  alias 
'  geutilman,'  going  to  Ireland  on  the  king's  service  in  the  company  of  the 
king's  kinsman  John,  earl  of  Worcester,  deputy  of  the  king's  brother  George, 
duke  of  (!)larence,  lieutenant  of  Ireland.  By  bill  of  p.s. 

Pardon  to  John  Hamrae  late  of  Trenaffa,  co.  Cornwall,  '  yoman,'  of  all 
debts,  fines  and  amercements  due  to  the  king.  By  p.s. 

Pardon  to  Simon  Hareby  of  Thurleby  by  Burn,  co.  Lincoln,  esquire,  of 
his  outlawry  in  the  city  of  Lincoln  and  the  hustings  of  London  for  not 
ajipearing  before  John  Prysot  and  his  fellows,  justices  of  the  Bench  of  the 
late  king,  to  satisfy  Thomas  Warner,  chaplain,  of  20  marks  which  he 
recovered  against  him  and  5  marks  damages,  and  for  not  appearing  before 
the  justices  of  the  Bench  of  the  present  king  to  answer  Humphrey 
Bourchier,  knight,  lord  of  Cromwell,  touching  a  debt  of  20/.  he  having 
surrendered  to  the  Flete  prison  and  satisfied  the  said  Thomas,  as  Bobert 
Danby,  chief  justice  of  the  Bench,  has  certified. 


Membrane  12. 

May  1.        Grant  for  life  to  John  Coldale  of  the  office  of  one  of  the  king's  kecj)ers 
Westminster,  of  le  Ovcrwarde  Avithin  the  forest  of  Inglcwode,  receiving  fees  as  in  the 
time  of  Edward  III.,  in  lieu  of  a  like  grant  of  the  same  to  Robert  Blakeman 
by  letters  patent  dated  16  October,  1  Edward  IV.  surrendered.        By  p.s. 

May  8.        Signification  to  Th.  archbishop  of  Canterbury  of  the  royal  assent  to  the 
Wcstroinster.  election  of  John  Barboure,  brother  of  the  Augustinian  hospital  of  St.  Mary, 
Dover,  as  master  of  that  place. 

April  27.  Licence  for  the  alienation  in  mortmain  by  Beno  Hampton,  esquire,  of  twelve 
Westminster,  messuages,  20  acres  of  meadow,  200  acres  of  pasture  and  12«,  of  rent,  in 
Lychefeld,  Curburgh,  Elmehurst,  Stretehjiy  and  Fulfen,  co.  Stafford,  not 
held  in  chief,  to  John,  the  abbot,  and  the  convent  of  St.  Mary,  Halesoweyn, 
to  celebrate  divine  service  in  the  monastery  for  the  good  estate  of  the  king 
and  Elizabeth,  queen  of  England,  his  consort,  and  the  said  Beno  and  for 
their  souls  after  death.  By  p.s. 

June  10.  Pardon  to  William  Hemmyng,  late  of  Worsted,  co.  Norfolk,  chaplain,  of 
Westmiuster.  his  outlawry  in  the  county  of  Norfolk  for  not  appearing  before  John  Prysot 
and  his  fellows,  justices  of  the  Bench  of  the  late  king,  to  .satisfy  Miles 
Stapilton,  knight,  of  25  matks  which  he  recovered  against  him  and  20*.  Sd. 
damages,  he  having  surrendered  to  the  Flete  prison,  as  Robert  Danby,  chief 
jiistico  of  the  Bench,  has  certified. 

June^8.        Jiispea  irnns  and  confirmation  to  Thomas  Assheton,  esquire,  and  William 
M  cstmiiistcr.  Floniyng,  rsf|uiro,  kinsmen  and  heirs  of  the  under-mentioned  Thomas  and 
Alice,  and  tlioir  lioirs  ol  letters  patent,  dated  ]  February,  1.':!  Ricliard  II., 
inspot  ling  and  oonfirniing  (o  Thomas  Flemyng,  knight,  and  Alice,  daughter 
of  William  del  Le,  knight,  whom  Fidk  de  Staudyssh  has  married,  kiu.smen 


1  EDWARD  IV.—Part  I. 


17 


14G7.  Membrane  12 — cont. 

and  heirs  of  the  under-mentioned  William,  and  their  heirs,  a  charter  dated 
at  Aberconeweye,  15  Marcli,  11  Edward  I.  granting  to  William  de  la  Mare 
and  his  heirs  a  market  weekly  and  a  fair  yearly  at  his  manor  of  Croftoiic, 
CO.  Lancaster,  and  free  warren  in  his  demesne  lands  in  Croftone,  Moudcslcyc 
and  Langeton,  co.  Lancaster.  For  105.  paid  in  the  hanaper. 

July  1.         Grant  for  life  to  John  Tremayle  of  the  office  of  parker  of  the  king's 
Westminster,  park  of  Corymalet,  co.  Somerset,  receiving  the  accustomed  fees  from  the 
issues  of  the  king's  manor  or  lordship  of  Corymalet,  wilh   all  other 
accustomed  profits.  By  i).s. 

May  10.        Grant  for  life  to  the  king's  servant  Henry  Chapman,  groom  of  the 
Westminster,  saucery,  of  the  custody  of  the  passage  of  Sainpford  with  the  barge  of  the 
same  in  the  counties  of  Oxford  and  Berks,  with  all  accustomed  profits. 

By  p.s. 

July  8.  General  pardon  to  William  Bowhanke,  late  of  Derham,  co.  Durham, 
Westminster.  '  yoraan,'  of  all  offences  committed  by  him  before  2  .July.  By  p.s. 

July  .30.  Grant  to  the  king's  kinsman  John,  earl  of  Worcester,  and  Philippa  lloos 
Westmiuster.  his  sister  late  the  wife  of  Thomas,  lord  of  lioos,  of  the  manors  of 
Uffyngton,  Wragby  and  Esteryngton,  co.  Lincoln,  and  Orston,  Warsop  and 
Ekeryng,  co,  Nottingham,  with  the  advowsons  of  the  churches  of  Warsop 
and  Eykeryng,  the  manor  of  Seton,  co.  York,  an  annuity  of  20/.  of  rent  from 
the  priory  of  Wartre  and  lands  in  Wartre,  co.  York,  the  manor  of  Adderley 
extending  into  Sponeley  with  the  advow.«;on  of  the  church  of  Adderley,  co. 
Salop,  and  the  manor  of  Estbourue,  co.  Sus.-sex,  late  of  the  said  Thomas  and 
in  the  king's  hands  by  reason  of  an  act  of  forfeiture  in  Parliament  at 
Westminster,  4  Noverai)er,  1  Edward  IV.  to  hold  for  the  life  of  the  .said 
Philippa  by  the  services  of  as  many  knights'  fees  and  as  many  other  rents 
and  services  as  they  were  held  by  l)cfore  1  ^larch,  1  Edward  IV. 


Mem  n  HAN  E  1 1. 


July  3. 

Wcstiiiiiister. 


July  7. 

Westminster, 


July  3. 

AVestminstcr, 


So[)t.  10. 
Dogmcrsfielil 


Inspexiinus  and  confirmation  to  R.  ))islicp  of  Carlisle  and  the  prior  and 
canons  of  Carlisle  of  a  charter  (called  letters  patent),  dated  at  Westmiuster, 
15  June,  18  Edward  1.  j  (latrtcr  Roll,  IS  h'dwurd  1.  No.  27],  insi)eeting 
and  confirming  to  Ralph,  then  bi.'^hup,  and  the  prior  and  canons  a  charter 
dated  at  Oxford,  IG  July,  15  Ilgiiry  111.  to  Walter,  then  bishop,  and  the 
prior  and  canons.  For  1  mark  paid  in  the  hanaper. 

Grant  for  life  to  the  king's  servitor  Thomas  Croft,  esquire,  of  the  ofliec 
of  the  stewardship  or  of  lieutenant  of  the  king's  manor  of  Wodcstokc, 
CO.  Oxford,  and  its  members,  viz.  Ilambergh,  Come,  Stonesfeld,  Wotton, 
and  Bladon,  and  the  hundred  of  Wotton.  eo.  Oxford,  receiving  the 
accustomed  fees  from  the  issues  of  the  said  manor.  By  p.s. 

Appointment,  during  pleasm-o,  of  Edward  Flynte  as  ganger  in  the  port 
of  Exeter  and  ports  and  [daces  adjacent,  receiving  the  accu.stomed  fees. 

By  bill  of  the  treasurer. 

The  like  of  Nicholas  Cervynglon  in  the  port  of  Bristol  and  ports  and 
places  adjacent.  By  bill  of  the  treasurer. 


MembhaKR  10. 

July  17.        Grant  for  life  to  lltimidirey  StalVord,  lord  Slalford  of  SouthcWyk,  knight, 
\Vt■.«lmill^ter.  of  the  king's  lordship  of  Kxiiond,  all  his  messuages,  lands,  rents,  reversions 
and  services  in  Exilond  and  Westyente,  and  the  (i.shory  of  the  river  E.\e, 
CO.  Devon,  with  view  of  frank-pledge,  liberties  and  all  profits,  rendering  to 

y  "J6186  ^ 


18 


CALENDAR  OF  PATENT  ROLLS. 


1467. 


July  25. 

Westminster. 


Aug.  4. 

■NVestiniiistcr. 


Aug.  9, 
Westiiiinster. 


July  14. 
Westminster. 

July  15. 

Westiiiiiistcr. 


Aug.  5. 

Wcslminstcr. 


Membrane  10 — cont, 
the  king  28/.  16*.  8(/.  yearly,  aud  supporting  the  houses,  enclosures,  and 
buildings.  By  p.s. 

Grant  from  Easter  last  to  the  king's  servant  Richard  Fowler  and  the 
heirs  male  of  his  body  of  the  manor  of  Stonton  Barry,  a  moiety  of  the 
manor  of  Stuteley  alias  Stucley  and  all  lands,  rents,  reversions  and 
services  in  Stonton  Barry  and  Stucley,  co.  Buckingham,  and  Markham 
alias  Marcham,  co.  Berks,  late  of  William  Vaux  alias  Vawes,  knight,  and 
in  the  king's  hands  by  reason  of  his  forfeiture  and  by  virtue  of  an  act  in 
Parliament  at  Westminster,  November,  1  Edward  IV.  the  manor  of  Sutton 
on  Trent,  co.  Nottingham,  and  all  lands,  rents,  reversions  and  services  in 
Sutton  aforesaid  of  Thomas,  late  lord  Eoos,  aud  in  the  king's  hands 
by  reason  of  his  forfeiture  and  by  virtue  of  the  act  aforesaid,  and  the 
reversion  of  the  manor  of  Preston  and  all  lands,  rents,  reversions,  and 
services  in  Preston  and  Coveley,  co.  Buckingham,  which  William  Fowlei", 
son  of  Thomas  Fowler,  holds  for  life,  late  of  the  said  Thomas,  lord  Roos, 
and  in  the  king's  hands  as  above,  with  knights'  sees,  advowsons,  wards, 
marriages,  reliefs,  escheats,  courts  leet,  views  of  frank-pledge  and  all 
profits,  to  hold  by  such  I'ents  and  services  as  they  were  held  by  befoi'C 
4  March,  1  Edward  IV.  for  20*.  4(Z.  to  be  paid  for  fine  or  fee  of  the  great 
seal.  By  p.s. 

Grant  to  John  Scotte,  knight,  and  the  heirs  male  of  his  body  of  the 
manor  of  Clopton  and  all  lands,  rents,  reversions  and  services  in  Clopton, 
CO.  Sullblk,  late  of  William,  late  lord  Beamoud,  and  in  the  king's  hands  by 
reason  of  his  forfeiture  and  by  virtue  of  an  act  in  Parliament  at  West- 
minster, 4  November,  1  Edward  IV.  the  manor  of  Gannowe,  co.  Worcester, 
and  all  lands,  rents,  reversions,  and  services  in  Gannowe,  late  of  James, 
late  earl  of  Wiltshire,  and  in  the  king's  hands  by  reason  of  his  forfeiture 
and  by  virtue  of  the  act  aforesaid,  and  the  manors  of  Berkham  alias 
Bercompe  and  Byrlyug  and  all  lands,  rents,  reversions  and  services  in 
Barkham  alias  Bercompe  and  Berlyng,  co.  Sussex,  with  knights'  fees, 
advowsons,  courts  leet,  views  of  frank-pledge,  liberties,  franchises,  Avarrens 
and  profits,  with  all  issues  from  Easter  last,  to  hold  by  the  services  of  as 
many  knights'  fees  and  as  many  other  rents  and  services  as  they  were  held  by 
before  4  March,  1  Edward  IV.  for  20*.  id.  to  be  paid  for  fine  or  fee  of 
the  great  seal.  By  p.s. 

Grant  to  Thomas  Stratton,  clerk  of  the  works,  at  the  hands  of  the  abbot 
and  convent  of  St,  Peter's,  Westminster,  of  100/.  forfeited  to  the  king  by 
reason  of  the  escape  of  Maurice  Newton  late  of  London,  '  soudioure,' 
convicted  of  felony  and  delivered  to  the  custody  of  George,  abbot  of  the 
monastery,  to  be  applied  to  the  roofing  and  completing  of  the  new  work 
within  the  private  palace  of  Westminster.  By  p.s, 

V^acated  by  surrender  and  cancelled  at  the  mandate  of  the  king  by  signet 
letter  on  28  September,  7  Edward  IV. 

General  pardon  to  Robert  Harden  alins  Hardyng  of  Newcastle  on-Tyne, 
'  merchant,'  of  all  ofleuces  committed  by  him  before  10  July  last.      By  p.s. 

General  pardon  to  Thomas  Cornewayll,  esquire,  of  all  offences  whereof 
he  was  convicted  liy  authority  of  Parliament  at  W^estminster,  4  November, 
1  Edward  IV.  By  p.s. 

Grant  to  the  king's  servitor  Henry  Ferrers,  esquire,  and  his  assigns  for 
Ills  life  of  the  manor  of  Hamyldon,  co.  Rutland,  which  the  king  had  of  the 
grant  of  George,  archbishop  of  York,  his  kinsman,  Richard  Quatermays, 
esquire,  .lohn  Leynton,  William  Hampton,  John  Benet  and  Richard  Fowler, 
with  knight's  fees,  courts  leet,  views  of  frank-pledgo,  liberties,  franchises 
and  profits,  to  hold  by  the  services  of  .'is  many  knights'  fees  and  as  many 


*l  EDWARD  IV.— Part  I. 


19 


1407.  Membrane  10 — cont. 

other  rents  and  services  as  they  were  held  by  before  4  March,  1  Edward  IV. 
with  all  issues  from  Easter  last.  By  p.s. 

Vacated  by  surrender  and  cancelled,  became  the  king  granted  the  manor 
to  the  said  Ilcnry  and  Margaret  his  wife  and  the  heirs  of  their  bodies  by 
other  letters  patent  on  14  November,  8  Edward  IV. 

Aug.  9.  Presentation  of  John  Carethorp  to  the  parish  church  of  Bisseley  in 
Westminster,  the  diocese  of  Winchester,  void  by  the  death  of  William  Horn,  last  parson. 


Membrane  9. 

Aug.  24.  Grant  for  life  to  Richard  Wideville,  earl  of  Ryvcrs,  lord  of  Grafton  and 
WcBtiuinstcr.  ];i  Mote,  father  of  the  queen,  of  the  office  of  constable  of  England,  receiving 
200/.  yearly  at  the  receipt  of  the  E.\chequer  with  all  other  accustomed 
profits,  in  lieu  of  a  like  grant  of  tlie  office  to  the  king's  kinsman  .John,  earl 
of  Worcester,  by  letters  patent  dated  7  February,  1  Edward  IV.  surrendered  ; 
and  grant  of  the  reversion  of  the  office  on  the  death  of  the  said  earl  of 
Ryvers  to  his  son  Anthony  Wideville,  lord  of  Scales  and  Nuselles,  for  life, 
receiving  200/.  yearly  as  above.    \^F(cdera.'\  By  p.s. 

Aug.  23.  Gi'ant  to  the  king's  knight  .fohn  Widevilc  and  the  heirs  male  of  his  body 
Westminster,  of  the  reversion  of  the  lordship.s  and  manors  of  Grynisthorix',  Edenani, 
Westhorpe,  Soutliorpe,  Lenwode  Beaumond  and  Thursway  Beauraond,  co. 
Lincoln,  and  all  lands,  rents,  services  and  possessions  in  the  county  ol  the 
city  of  Lincoln  called  '  Beaumondcsrent '  and  in  Grymslhori)e,  Edenain, 
Westhorpe,  Southorpe,  Lenwode  Beaumond  and  Thursway  Beaumond,  on 
the  death  of  Katharine,  duchess  of  Norfolk,  who  holds  the  same  in  ilower, 
belonging  to  the  king,  by  reason  of  the  forfeiture  of  William,  late  viscount 
Beaumond,  and  by  virtue  of  an  act  in  Parliament  at  VV^o.stniin.stei',  4  No- 
vember, 1  Edward  IV.  with  knights'  fees,  advow.sons,  courts  loot,  views  of 
frank-pledge,  liberties,  franchises,  fairs,  markets,  warrens  and  profits,  to  hohl 
by  the  services  of  as  many  kiiiglits'  fees  and  as  many  other  rents  and 
services  as  they  were  held  l)y  before  4  starch,  1  Edward  IV.  By  p.s. 


M^SlBRAttE  8. 

July  24.        Grant  for  life  to  Judoc  de  Bull  and  Katharine  his  wife  of  20/.  yearly  from 
Westminster.  Michaelmas,  5  Edward  IV.  from  the  customs  and  sul)sidies  in  the  port  of 
Southampton,  in  lieu  of  a  like  grant  to  them  from  the  issues  of  the  king's 
lordship  of  C3ye  within  the  pale  of  the  town  of  Calais  by  letters  patent 
dated  1(5  June,  3  Edward  IV.  surrendered  because  invalid.  By  p.s. 

Mandate  in  pursuance  to  the  customers  or  collectors  in  the  port  of 
Southampton. 

July  29.  Exemption  for  life  of  William  More,  citizen  and  butcher  of  London,  from 
Westniiubter.  being  ])ut  or  im))iUK'lled  on  grcut  assizes  or  other  assizes,  juries,  attaints, 
recognisances  or  ir.cjiiisitions,  and  trom  being  made  trier  of  the  same,  baihlf, 
constable,  collector,  assessor,  taxer,  surveyor  or  receiver  of  tenths,  fifteenths 
or  other  subsidy  or  imposition,  arrayer,  trier  or  leader  of  men-at-arms, 
liobelcrs  or  archers,  or  other  officer  or  minister  of  the  king,  and  grant 
that  no  purveyor  shall  lake  any  of  his  goods  against  his  will.  By  p.s. 

July  28.        Grant,  during  oflTice,  to  Master  Thomas  Rotherham,  king's  clerk,  keeper 
M'csdniiiRter.  of  the  pi  ivy  scid,  of  a  yeinly  rent  of  3(iO  m.irks,  viz.  200  niaiks  from  the 
issues  of  the  city  of  London  luul  the  eoiint}  of  MidiUesex,  100  marks  from 
the  issues  of  the  counties  of  Norfolk  and  ^ulTolk  and  CO  marks  from  the 


20 


CALENDAR  OP  PATENT  ROLLS. 


1467. 


Membrane  8 — com. 
issues  of  the  counties  of  Somerset  and  Dorset,  at  the  hands  of  the  sheriffs,  in 
part  payment  of  his  fee  of  205.  daily.  By  p.s. 

Mandate  in  pursuance  to  the  sheriffs  of  London  and  Middlesex. 
The  like  to  the  sheriff  of  Norfolk  and  Suffolk. 
The  like  to  the  sheriff  of  Somerset  and  Dorset. 

July  24.  Graut  to  Johu  Pilkyngton,  one  of  the  esquires  of  the  body,  and  the  heirs 
Westininstcr.  male  of  his  body  of  the  manor  of  Turnehamhall  with  its  members,  two  parts 
of  the  manor  of  Thorneton  in  Craven,  and  six  messuages,  200  acres  of  land, 
10  aci'es  of  meadow  and  50  acres  of  pasiture  in  Yolton,  co.  York,  late  of 
Thomas,  lord  Roos,  and  in  the  king's  hands  by  reason  of  an  act  in  Parliament 
at  Westminster,  4  November,  1  Edward  IV.  by  pretext  whereof  he  was 
attained  of  high  treason,  the  reversion  of  the  third  part  of  the  said  manor  of 
Thorneton  and  the  manor  of  Lynton  on  Owse,  co.  Y'^ork,  on  the  death  of 
Marjory  late  the  wife  of  John  Roos,  knight,  lord  Roos,  who  holds  the 
same  in  dower,  belonging  to  the  king  as  above,  the  manors  of  Malteby  and 
Hoton,  CO.  Y'"ork,  late  of  John,  late  lord  Clifford,  attainted  of  high  treason 
by  virtue  of  the  said  act,  and  in  the  king's  hands  as  above,  the  manor  of 
Great  Hale  alias  Westhalle  alias  Hole,  co.  Lincoln,  late  of  Thomas  Claymond 
and  in  the  king's  hands  by  reason  of  the  said  act  by  reason  of  which  he  was 
attainted  of  high  treason,  an  inn  or  tenement  and  four  shops  adjacent  in  the 
suburbs  of  Loudon  in  the  parish  of  St.  Botolph  in  the  ward  of  Aldrichgate, 
which  Gilbert  Parre,  esquire,  lately  had  of  the  grant  of  Henry  VI.  by  letters 
l)atent,  and  the  manors  of  Turby,  13alscadan  and  Russhe  with  the  advowsons 
of  the  churches  and  all  lands,  rents,  services,  coui'ts  and  profits  in  Turby, 
Balscadan  and  Russhe,  co.  Dublin,  late  parcel  of  the  hereditament  of  James 
Botiller,  late  earl  of  Wiltsliire,  convicted  of  high  treason  by  virtue  of  the 
said  act,  and  in  the  king's  hands  as  above,  to  hold  with  knights'  fees, 
advowsons,  wards,  marriages,  warrens,  fairs,  markets  and  other  profits  by 
the  services  of  as  many  knight's  fises  and  as  many  other  rents  and  services 
as  they  were  held  by  before  4  March,  1  Edward  IV.  with  all  issues  from 
that  date.  By  p.s. 


Membuane  7, 

April  20.       Ceueral  pardon  to  Tliomas  Loehard  late  of  Clehungre,  co.  Hereford, 
Westminster.  '  gintilman,'  of  all  offences  committed  by  him  and  all  forfeitures  of  his 
goods  and  lands.  By  p.s. 

June  22.  Pardon  to  Thomas  Ruyton,  late  of  Coventre,  '  mercer,'  of  his  outlawry 
Westmijistcr.  in  the  county  of  Middlesex  tor  not  appearing  before  the  justices  of  the 
Bench  to  satisl'y  John  Ileynes  of  London,  '  draper,'  of  a  debt  of  6/.  8*. 
whieli  he  recovered  against  liiiu  and  20s.  danuiges,  lie  having  surrendered 
to  the  Flele  prison  and  satisfied  the  said  John,  as  Robert  Dauby,  knight, 
chief  justice  of  the  Bench,  has  certified. 

June  26.  Pardon  to  Nicholas  Husee  of  Hertyng,  co.  Sussex,  esquire,  late  buyer, 
Wfstuiiiistei-.  receiver  and  keeper  of  all  victuals  and  equipments  of  the  late  king  provided 
for  the  defence  of  the  town  of  Calais  and  all  other  towns,  castles  and 
f'ortalices  in  those  jiarts,  late  purveyor,  buyer,  i-eceivcr  and  keeper  of  all 
victuals  and  equipments  within  the  town  and  marches  of  Calais  and  the 
tower  of  Ruysbank,  late  lieutenant  of  the  king's  town  and  castle  of  Guynes 
in  the  parts  of  Picardy,  late  victualicr  of  Calais,  late  sheriff  of  Surrey  and 
Sussex,  of  all  offences  committed  by  him  and  all  debts,  accounts  and  arrears 
due  from  him  to  the  king.  By  p.s. 

June  26.  General  pardon  to  Thomas  Throkmarton  of  Coughton,  co.  Warwick, 
Westminster,  escpiire,  alias  '  gentilman.'  alias  of  Throkmarton,  co.  W orcestcr,  esquire,  of  all 


7  EDWAllD  IV.— Part  I.  ^  21 


1467.  Membrane  7 — cont. 

offences  committed  by  him  before  23  June,  and  declaration  that  he  is  innocent 
of  certain  treasons  and  other  misprisions  of  wliich  he  was  accused.    By  p.s, 

June  26.        Presentation  of  William  Benet,  chaplain,  to  the  parish  church  of  Etton, 
■\Vestmiiistcr.  iu  the  diocese  of  York,  void  by  the  resignation  of  Robert  Yarcburght,  last 
rector,  who  is  oppressed  by  old  age  and  weakness,  and  to  whom  the  king 
requests  George,  archbishop  of  York,  to  assign  a  sustenance  from  the 
fruits  of  the  said  church,  lest  he  be  reduced  to  beggary.  By  p.s. 

July  2.         General  pardon  to  Hugh  Muile  of  London,  *  gentilman,'  alias  Hugh 
Wcstmin^tol  .  Mille,  o//as  late  of  Bristol,         late  of  Harcscombe,  co.  Gloucester,  of  all 
offences  committed  by  him  before  1  July.  By  p.s, 

Jidy  .3.         Protection,  with  clause  volumus,  for  one  year,  for  Richard  Symans  alias 
Wfstiuiuster.  Seman  of  ScgcVjarowe,  co.  Worcester,  '  yoman,'  alias  Richard  llyote,  going 
on  the  king's  service  in  the  company  of  John,  earl  of  Worcester,  deputy 
of  the  king's  brother  George,  duke  of  Clarence,  lieutenant  of  Ireland,  to 
Ireland  on  the  s^afe  custody,  defence  and  victualling  of  that  land. 

By  bill  of  p.s. 

July  4,         Pardon  to  the  master,  brethren  and  sisters  of  the  fraternity  or  gild  of 
Wesiminstcr.  the   Holy  Angels  by  Syon  of   all  otfences,  trespasses   and  contempts 
committed  by  tiicm  and  all  acquisitions  of  lands  in  mortmain  without 
licence.  By  p.s. 

July  0.  Appointment,  until  f>  January  next,  of  Thomas  Markham  to  purvey  salt 
Wt'siminster.  and  freshwater  fish  for  the  expenses  of  the  household. 

By  bill  of  the  treasurer  of  the  household. 

July  9,  Presentation  of  John  Foster,  chaplain,  to  tlie  parish  church  of  Artrutli, 
Wcstniinhttr.  in  the  diocese  of  (Jarlislc,  void  by  the  resignation  of  William  Huntyng, 


Membrane  6. 

July  9.  Whereas  Tliomas  Ursewyk,  recorder  of  London,  Richard  Levormore  and 
Wustniinstcr.  William  'ry.stcde  lately  ac(iMircd  in  fee  from  John  Dyiiliam,  lord  Dynhani, 
the  manor  of  Herlilcnd,  co.  Devon,  the  hundred  of  Ilertilond  pertaining  to 
the  manor,  the  advowson  of  the  abbey  of  Hcrfilond  and  all  advowsous  of 
Hertilond  pertaining  to  the  manor,  iield  in  chief,  and  altci  ward.s  the  said 
John  and  Elizabeth  his  wife,  late  the  wife  of  .John  Ualcliir  of  Filzwater, 
acquired  the  name  from  them  to  themselves  and  the  heirs  of  the  said  John 
and  entered  thereon  without  licence,  the  king  hereby  without  fine  or  fee 
paidons  these  trespasses.  By  p.s. 

July  8.         Pardon  to  John  Ricard  of  Piaystowe  in  the  parish  of  Bremlcy,  co.  Kent, 
Westmiusur.  '  hu.sbon(!man,'  of  his  outlawry  in  London  for  not  appearing  before  tiio 
justices  of  the  Bench  to  satisfy  the  king  of  his  ransom  for  having  denied  a 
writing  obligatory  of  11/.  which  John  Doo,  citizen  and  '  stokfysshmonger ' 
of  London,  produced  in  court,  whereof  he  was  convicted,  and  the  said 
John  Doo  of  the  said  II/.  and  the  damages  awarded  to  him,  he  having 
surrendered  to  the  Flete  pri.son  and  satisfied  the  latter,  !is  Robert  Danby, 
chief  justice  of  the  Bench,  has  certified, 
July  14.        Presentation  of  Richard  Woodward  to  the  church  of  St.  John,  Matyr- 
Westiuiiister.  market,  Norwich,  void  by  the  death  of  William  Bafyn, 

May  4.  Licence  for  James  Metkalf,  his  heirs  or  e.xeeutors  to  found  a  perpetual 
Wcslniinster.  chantry  of  one  ohiiplain  to  celebrate  divine  service  daily  in  the  church  or 
chapel  of  St.  OsAvald,  Askryg,  co.  York,  for  the  good  estate  of  the  king, 
his  consort  Elizabeth,  (|ueen  of  England,  the  said  James  and  Thonias 
Metkalf  and  Miles  Metkalf  his  sons  and  for  their  souls  after  death  and  the 
souls  of  Richaul,  late  earl  of  Salisbury,  and  John  Metkalf  and  Alic  his 
wife  father  and  mother  of  the  said  James,  to  be  called  the  chantry  of  James 


CALENDAR  OP  PATENT  ROLLS, 


1467. 


July  2. 

Westiiiiuster. 


July  24. 
Westiuinster. 


June  3. 
Westminster. 

Aug.  4. 

Westminster. 


Aug.  29. 

Westminster. 

Aug.  28. 
Westminster. 


Membrane  6 — cont. 

Metkalf,  and  for  the  alienation  in  mortmain  by  him>  his  heirs  or  executors 
to  the  said  chaplain  of  lands  and  tenements,  not  held  in  chief,  to  the 
yearly  value  of  10  marks.         By  p.s.  and  for  6  marks  paid  in  the  hanaper. 

Grant  to  John  Audeley,  knight,  lord  of  Audeley,  and  the  heirs  male  of 
his  body  of  the  manors  of  Shire  and  Vachery,  co.  Surrey,  with  knights' 
fees  appertaining,  of  the  yearly  value  of  37/.  5?.  in  the  king's  hands  by  the 
forfeiture  of  James,  late  earl  of  Wiltshire,  to  hold  by  the  services  of  as 
many  knights'  fees  and  as  many  other  rents  and  services  as  they  were  held 
by  before  4  March,  1  Edward  IV.  By  p.s. 

(Irant  to  the  king's  servitor  Roger  Ree,  esquire,  one  of  the  ushers  of  the 
king's  chamber,  and  the  heirs  male  of  his  body,  for  his  good  service  to  the 
king's  father  and  the  king,  of  the  manors  of  Erpynghara  and  Jerbrygge,  co. 
Norfolk,  and  Whatton  attc  Stone,  co.  Hertford,  and  all  lands,  rents  and 
services  in  Erpyngbam,  Jerbrygge  and  Whatton  atte  Stone,  late  of  William, 
late  viscount  Beaumont,  on  4  March,  1  Edward  IV.  and  in  the  king's 
hands  by  reason  of  his  forfeiture  and  by  virtue  of  an  act  in  Parliament  at 
Westminster,  4  November,  1  Edward  IV.  and  all  lands,  rents,  reversions, 
services,  and  possessions  in  the  counties  of  Middlesex  and  Cornwall  and 
elsewhere  in  England,  late  of  John  Nayler,  esquire,  on  30  December, 
39  Henry  VI.  or  the  said  4  March,  and  in  the  king's  hands  by  reason  of 
liis  forfeiture,  and  by  virtue  of  the  act  aforesaid,  with  knights'  fees  and 
advowsons,  to  hold  with  all  issues  from  Easter  last  by  the  services  of  as 
many  knights'  fees  and  as  many  other  rents  and  services  as  they  were  held 
by  before  the  said  4  March.  .  By  p.s. 

Vacated  by  surrender  and  cancelled,  because  the  kinrj  granted  the  said 
manors  and  lands,  rents  and  services  in  Erpyngham  and  Jerbrygge  and 
Whatton  atte  Stone  to  him  by  other  letters  palent  on  31  May, 
15  EdiL  urd  IV. 

Presentation  of  William  Buutyng,  chaplain,  to  the  parish  church  of 
St.  Andrew  Hubberd,  London. 

Revocation  of  the  protection  with  clause  volumns,  for  one  year,  lately 
granted  by  letters  patent  to  Ralph  Askam,  skinner  and  citizen  of  London, 
staying  on  the  king's  service  in  the  company  of  John  Thryske,  mayor  of 
the  staple  of  Calais  and  treasurer  of  the  town  and  castle  and  marshes  of 
Calais,  on  the  safe-custody,  defence  and  victualling  of  the  same,  because 
he  delays  at  London,  as  appears  by  certificate  of  the  sheriffs. 

Grant  for  life  to  John  Carre  of  the  custody  of  the  gaol  of  the  king's 
castle  of  Cambridge  with  the  accustomed  fees  and  all  other  profits,  receiving 
the  said  fees  yearly  at  the  hands  of  the  sheriff.  By  p.s. 

Grant  for  life  to  the  king's  knight  Wilham  Herbert,  lord  Herbert,  of 
the  oflices  of  constable  of  the  king's  castle  of  Dynbigh  in  North  Wales,  and 
steward  of  the  king's  castles,  lordships,  and  manors  of  Dynbygh  and 
Mongomery  and  the  lordships  and  manors  of  Kery  and  Kedewen  with 
their  meml)ers  and  ajjpurtenances  in  North  Wales,  receiving  the  .iccustomed 
fees  from  the  issues  of  the  promises,  with  power  of  appointing  officers  and 
ministers.  By  p.s. 


Membrane  5. 

April  23.       Grant  to  the  king's  knight,  Humphrey  Stafford  of  Southwyke,  and  the 
Westminster,  heirs  male  of  his  body   of  the  manor  and  borough  of  Tyverton,  the 
hundred  of  Tyverton  with  its  appurtenances  and  the  advowsons  of  three 
portions  with  cures  in  the  church  of  Tyverton,  the  castles,  lordships, 
mano-s,  boroughs  and  hundreds  of  Plyrapton  and  Okehampton,  the  manor 


7  EDWARD  IV.— Part  1. 


23 


1467.  Membrane  o — coat. 

and  borough  of  Chalvelegh,  the  manors  of  Colcombc,  Colyton,  Musbury, 
ColyTorcl,  Whitford  and  Sarnpford  Coiirtcnay,  co.  Devon,  the  honors  of 
Plymton  and  Okchampton  and  all  other  land:,,  knights'  foes,  rents  and 
services  of  the  king  in  those  places,  with  knights'  fees,  advowsons,  franchises, 
liberties,  hundreds,  courts  Icet,  views  of  frank-pledge,  fairs,  markets,  free 
chaccs,  parks,  warrens,  fisheries,  wreck  of  sea,  chattels  of  felons  and 
fugitives  chattels  called  mannopera  and  other  profits,  in  the  king's  hands 
'  by  reason  of  an  Act  of  Parliament  at  Westminster,  4  November, 
1  Edward  IV.  and  all  issues  of  the  same  from  Michaelmas,  1  Edward  IV. 
in  lieu  of  a  like  grant  to  him  by  letters  patent  dated  23  March,  4  Edward  IV. 
surrendered  ;  and  grant  to  him  of  the  custody  during  minority  of  James, 
son  and  heii'  of  James  Derneford,  esquire,  tenant  in  chief,  William,  son 
and  heir  of  Richard  Strode,  es(iuire,  tenant  in  chief,  and  Richard  Whitlegh, 
sou  and  heir  of  John  Whitlegh,  esquire,  tenant  in  chief,  and  of  all  their 
lands  from. the  times  of  the  deaths  of  their  fathers,  with  (he  marriages 
of  the  heirs  without  disparagement.  By  K. 

Vacated  by  surrender  and  cancelleil,  because  the  hincj  granted  the  said 
castles  and  other  2>remises  to  the  said  Humphrey  and  the  heirs  of  his  body 
by  other  letters  patent  on  7  December,  8  Edward  IV. 

June  23.  Grant  to  Thomas  Herbert,  esquire,  for  200  marks  paid  to  the  king,  of 
Westminster,  the  custody  of  all  lordships,  manors,  lands,  rents,  services  and  posses.-^ioiis 
late  of  John  Poyntz,  esquire,  tenant  in  chief,  during  the  minority  of  Robert 
his  son  and  heir,  and  the  custody  and  marriage  of  the  latter  without 
disparagement,  and  so  from  iicir  to  heir,  finding  a  competent  sustenance  for 
tho  heir  and  supporting  all  charges.  By  bill  of  the  treasurer. 

June  2.).  Licence,  for  33.v.  4.d.  paid  in  the  hanaper,  for  Brian  Rouclylf,  thinl 
Westmin.stei-.  baron  of  the  Exchequer,  John  Leventliorpe,  esquire,  Thomas  Ardern,  parson 
of  the  parish  church  of  Hadham,  and  William  Gunnns  to  grant  the  manor 
of  Merkhalle  alias  Latton  Merk,  eo.  Essex,  held  in  eliief,  to  Katiiarine 
late  the  wife  of  Peter  Ardern,  knight,  one  of  the  justices  of  the  Beiich, 
and  the  heirs  male  of  the  said  Peter  and  Katharine,  with  successive 
remainders  to  Anne,  wife  of  John  Bohun,  esquire,  and  Elizabeth,  wife  of 
John  Skrene,  cs({uire,  diinghters  of  the  said  Peter,  and  the  heirs  of  their 
bodies,  and  in  default  of  such  heirs  to  persons  to  be  nominated  by  tho 
grantors. 


Membrane  4. 

July  30.  General  p.ardon  to  the  king's  kinsman  John  Typtoft,  knight,  carl  of 
AVcsimiiistef.  Worcester,  lord  of  Typtoft  and  Powe.s — tenant  of  the  lands  of  Joyce  late 
the  wife  of  John,  lord  of  Typtoft,  one  of  the  daughters  {sic)  an.l  heirs  of 
Edmund,  earl  of  Kent— constable  of  England,  constable  of  the  Tower 
of  London,  constable  of  the  castle  of  Porchestre,  late  treasurer  of  England, 
steward  of  the  king's  household  and  one  ef  the  king's  assigns,  and  tlie 
administrator  of  the  goods  of  the  said  John,  heir  and  tenant  of  the  lands 
which  were  his,  of  all  offences  committed  by  him  before  1  February  last. 

By  p.s.  [2152.] 

Aug.  G.         Licence  for  the  prior  and  convent  of  the  monastery  of  Oselveston,  of  the 
AVestiuinster.  order  of  St,  Augustine,  to  elect  an  abbot  in  the  place  of  William  Kylpesham, 
deceased. 

Aug.  6.        General  pardon  to  John  Athirton  of  Athirton,  co.  Lancaster,  esquire,  late 
Westminster,  sheriff  of  the  cotinty  of  Durham  and  Sadberg,  of  all  offences  committed  by 
him  before  5  August.  -^b'  P-*^- 

Aug.  20.         Signification  to  J.  bishop  of  Lincoln  of  the  royal  assent  (o  the  election 
Westminster,  of  Robert  Kirkeby,  canon  of  the  priory  of  Kirkeby,  of  the  order  of 
St.  Augustine,  as  abbot  of  the  monastery  of  Oselveston. 


24 


CALENDAR  OF  PATENT  ROLLS. 


1467. 

Au-.  8. 

Westiuiuster. 


Au-^-.  28. 

AVestniinster. 


Aug.  28. 

Westminster. 


Aii<j.  4. 

W  estininster. 


Membrane  i—eont. 

Grant  to  the  king's  kinsman  John  Bourgcliier,  knight,  and  the  heirs 
male  of  his  body  of  the  manors  of  Hemyngton,  co.  Somerset,  and  Baylyford 
and  Keniie,  co.  Devon,  with  advowsons  and  portions  of  churches  and  all 
other  laiuls  and  possessions  of  Thomas  Courteney,  late  earl  of  Devon, 
belonging  to  the  same  manors,  and  the  manor  of  Fretheby  late  of  Thomas, 
lord  of  Ivoose,  rebel,  with  knights'  fees,  courts  leet,  views  of  frank-pledge, 
franchises,  escheats,  liberties,  warrens,  parks,  fairs,  markets  and  other 
profits,  in  the  king's  hands  ))y  reason  of  an  act  of  forfeiture  in  Parliament 
at  Westminster,  4  November,  1  Edward  IV.  to  hold  by  the  rents  and 
services  of  as  many  knights'  fees  and  as  many  other  rents  and  services  as 
they  were  held  by,  before  4  March,  1  Edward  IV.  with  all  issues  from 
Easter  last.  By  p.s. 

Vacated,  so  far  as  concerns  the  manor  of  Fretheby,  because  by  letters 
patent  on  23  November  the  king  granted  the  manor  to  Edivard  Hardgill 
and  Elizabeth  Moresby  and  their  assigns  for  life,  and  as  to  the  other 
manors  because  other  letters  were  made  enrolled  elsewhere  in  this  year. 

Pardon  to  .John  Hampton  alias  Dale  of  the  parish  of  St.  Botolph 
without  Bysshopesgate,  London,  chaplain,  of  the  suit  of  the  king's  peace, 
which  pertains  to  the  king,  for  robbery  and  the  breach  of  the  peace  of  the 
late  king,  with  which  William  More  charged  him,  and  all  other  offences 
committed  by  him  before  20  July.  By  p.s. 

Appointment  for  life  of  the  king's  servant  Thomas  Herbert  the  elder, 
one  of  the  esquires  of  the  body,  as  chancellor  of  the  earldom  of  March  in 
England  and  Wales  and  the  marches,  receiving  yearly  20/.  and  such  other 
profits  as  Thomas  Colt,  esquire,  had  in  the  same  office  from  the  issues  of 
the  king's  lordship  and  manor  of  Uske  in  the  march  of  Wales.         By  p.s. 

Appointment  of  Vincent  Pytlesden  as  deputy  of  John  Weulok,  knight, 
chief  butler  of  England,  in  the  port  of  Southampton  and  ports  and  places 
adjacent,  receiving  the  accustomed  fees.  By  bill  of  the  chief  butler. 


Aug.  7. 
Westminster. 


Aug.  14. 
Westminster. 


Membrane  3. 

Grant  to  the  king's  kinsman  Thomas  Bourghchier,  knight,  and  the  heirs 
male  of  his  body  of  the  manors  of  Cokyngton,  Chylston,  Asshebury  and 
C'ary  and  all  lands,  rents,  reversions,  and  services  in  Dunneslond, 
Beworthye,  Shepeswasshe,  Gary,  Moukehamptou,  Lutterford,  Wreycombe 
and  Asshebury,  co.  Devon,  late  of  William  Gary,  knight,  and  in  the  king's 
hands  by  reason  of  an  act  of  forfeiture  in  Parliament  at  Westminster, 
4  November,  1  Edward  IV.  and  certain  inquisitions  taken  before  the 
escheator  in  the  said  county  and  remaining  in  the  Exchequer,  of  (record, 
and  a  messuage  lying  in  Watlyngstrete,  London,  late  of  John  Penycok, 
between  a  messuage  of  Thomas  Porthaleyn  on  tlte  west  and  a  tenement 
belonging  to  a  chantry  of  St.  Mary,  Aldermary,  in  the  king's  hands  by 
reason  of  an  act  of  forfeiture  in  Parliament  aforesaid,  to  hold  with  courts 
leet,  views  of  frank-pledge,  knights'  fees,  advowsons,  warrens,  franchises 
and  liberties,  by  the  services  of  as  many  knights'  fees  and  as  many  other 
rents  and  services  as  they  were  held  by  before  4  March,  1  Edward  IV. 
without  fine  or  fee  beyond  20*.  Ad.  By  p.s. 

Grant  to  the  king's  knight  Walter  Blount,  lord  of  Montjoye,  whom  the 
king  has  raised  to  the  rank  of  baron,  and  the  heirs  male  of  his  body  of  the 
lordships  and  manors  of  Iluntebeare,  Holdeham  and  Chulmelegh  .and  the 
borouglis  of  Chulmelegh  and  Twykebeare,  co.  Devon,  the  lordships  and 
manors  ot  Rrommore  alias  Brymniore  and  Lemyngton,  and  the  borough  of 
Lemyngton,  co.  Soutliampton,  the  manor  of  Cornewode,  co.  Devon,  and  a 
yearly  rent  of  18/.  6*.  Sd.  which  the  sheriff  of  Devon  used  to  pay  to 
Thomas  Courteuay,  late  earl  of  Devon,  and  all  messuages,  lands,  rents, 


7  EDWARD  IV.— Part  I, 


23 


1467.  Membrane  3 — cont. 

reversions  and  services  in  Himtebeare,  Holdeham,  Chulmelegli,  Twyke- 
beare,  Brommore,  Lemyngton  un<l  Cornewode,  in  the  counties  of  Devon, 
Southampton  and  Somerset,  bite  of  the  said  earl,  and  in  the  king's 
liands  by  reason  of  an  act  of  forfeiture  in  Parliament  at  Westminster, 
4  November,  1  Edwai'd  IV.  with  advowsons,  wards,  marriages,  reliefs, 
knights'  fees,  liberties,  franchises,  fairs,  markets,  parks,  warrens,  courts 
loet,  views  of  frank-pledge,  ciiattels  of  felons  and  fugitives,  wreck  of  sea 
and  other  profits,  to  hold  from  Easter  last  by  the  services  of  as  many 
knights'  fees  and  as  many  other  rents  and  services  as  they  were  held  by 
before  4  March,  1  Edward  IV.  and  all  issues  from  Easter  last.         By  p.s. 

Aug.  15.  Grant  to  the  king's  kinsman  William  Bourgchier,  knight,  son  and  heir 
Westminster,  apparent  of  the  king's  uncle  Henry,  earl  of  Essex,  Anne  his  wife,  sister 
of  the  king's  consort,  Elizabeth,  (jueen  of  England,  and  the  heirs  of  their 
bodies,  in  part  satisfaction  of  a  verbal  promise  to  them  of  manors  and  lands 
to  the  value  of  100/.  yearly,  of  the  manor  of  Bnres  with  Netherhalle  and 
Overhalle  with  a  tenement  called  Ropers  in  Seyntmarybures,  in  the  counties 
of  Essex  and  Sutfolk,  and  the  manor  of  Leygham,  co.  .Suffolk,  with  knights' 
fees,  advowsons,  wards,  marriages,  reliefs,  escheats,  courts  leet,  views  of 
frank-pledge,  liberties,  franchises,  parks,  wood.s,  warrens,  fi.sheries,  and 
other  profits,  late  of  James,  late  carl  of  Wiltshire,  and  in  the  king's  hands 
by  reason  of  an  act  in  Parliament  at  Westminster,  4  November, 
1  Edward  IV.  to  hold  by  the  services  of  as  many  knights'  fees  and  as 
many  other  rents  and  services  as  they  were  held  by  before  4  March, 
1  Edward  IV.  without  fine  or  fee  beyond  20«.  4rf.  By  p.s. 

Aug.  30.       General  pardon  to  Hugh  FitzHovvell  of  Andevir,  co.  Southampton, 
Westminster.  '  yoman,'  and  Alice  his  wife  of  all  offences  committed  by  them  before 
3  August.  By  p.s. 

Aug.  29.  Grant  to  John  Nicoll  of  Loudon,  '  grocer,'  and  his  executors  and  assigns, 
AVestminster.  in  payment  for  a  quantity  of  powder  called  '  gunpowdre '  to  the  value  of 
559/.  10*.  8t/.  delivered  for  the  king's  u.se  to  John  Wodc,  master  of  the 
king's  ordnance,  of  40  marks  yearly  from  Easter  last  fioni  the  issues  of 
the  county  of  Lincoln,  40  marks  yearly  from  Easter  last  from  the  issues 
of  the  counties  of  Bedford  and  Buckingham,  40/.  yearly  from  Easter  last 
from  the  issues  of  the  county  of  Cornwall,  20/.  yearly  from  Easter  last  from 
the  issues  of  the  counties  of  Oxford  and  Jierks  and  26/.  11*.  yearly  from 
Easter  la.st  from  the  issues  of  the  counties  of  Somerset  and  Dorset,  niitil  he 
be  fully  satisfied.  By  p.s. 

Membrane  2. 

Grant  to  William  Herbert,  knight,  lord  Herbert,  for  800  marks  paid  to 
the  king,  of  the  custody  of  all  lordships,  manors,  lands,  rents,  services 
and  possessions  with  advowsons,  knights'  fees,  franchises,  liberties,  warrens, 
courts  leet  and  other  commodities  late  of  Richard  Grey,  knight,  late  lord  of 
Powys,  deceased,  tenant  in  chief,  during  the  minority  of  John  his  sou  and 
heir  and  the  custody  and  marriage  of  the  latter  without  disparagement, 
and  so  from  hoir  to  heir,  finding  a  competent  sustenance  for  him.     By  p.s. 

Grant  to  Richard  Salkeld,  esquire,  and  the  heirs  male  of  his  body,  for 
his  good  service  in  capturing  James,  late  earl  of  Wiltshire,  traitor  and 
rebel,  and  seizing  the  city  and  castle  of  Carlisle  and  afterwards  defending 
them  against  the  rebels,  both  Scots  and  English,  of  the  lordships  and 
manors  of  CakUsbek,  Uldale  and  Wigton  and  all  pastures  and  woods  called 
'  le  WosLwarde  '  with  all  towns,  members,  lands,  rents,  i-eversions,  services, 
meadows,  feedings,  pastures,  woods,  waters,  stanks,  mills  and  fisheries 
belonging  to  the  same  between  the  waters  of  Darwent  and  Caldco,  co. 
Cumberland,  with  advowsons,  knights'  fees,  courts  leet,  warrens,  chaces, 


June  23. 

Westminster. 


July  23. 
Westminster. 


26 


CALENDAR  OF  PATENT  ROLLS. 


Membrane  2 — coiit. 

liberties  and  all  other  profits,  in  the  king's  hands  by  the  forfeiture  of 
Heury,  late  earl  of  Northumberland,  and  by  virtue  of  an  act  of  rarliament 
at  Westminster,  4  November,  1  Edward  IV.  to  hold  from  Easter  last  by 
the  services  of  as  many  knights'  fees  and  as  many  other  rents  and  services 
as  they  vrere  held  by  before  4  March,  1  Edward  IV.  for  20.$.  to  be  paid  for 
fine  or  fee  of  the  great  seal.  By  p.s. 

Aug.  11.  Grant  for  life  to  Eleanor  late  the  wife  of  Ranulph  Dacre,  knight, 
Westminster,  deceased,  of  the  manor  of  Fysshwyk,  co.  Lancaster,  late  of  the  .said  Ranulph 
and  in  the  king's  hands  by  force  of  an  act  in  Parliament  at  Westminster, 
4  November,  1  Edward  IV. ;  on  her  supplication  that  her  said  husband 
was  seised  of  certain  maaors,  lands,  rents  and  services  in  the  counties  of 
Cumberland,  Westmoreland,  Lincoln  and  Lancaster  on  4  March,  1  Edward 
IV.  from  which  she  was  entitled  to  dower  until  the  said  4  November  when 
they  came  into  the  king's  hands,  and  that  she  has  been  despoiled  of  her 
goods  by  the  Scots  and  other  rebels  and  has  no  means  of  support.     By  p.s. 

Aug.  15.  Grant  for  life  to  Richard  Southwell,  esquire,  late  servant  of  the  king's 
Westminster,  kinsman  John,  late  duke  of  Norfolk,  of  a  croft,  80  acres  of  land,  60  acres 
of  pasture,  10  acres  of  meadow  and  10s.  of  rent  in  Kyngesnorton  called 
'  Farmous,'  co.  Worcester,  late  of  James,  late  earl  of  Wiltshire,  and  in  the 
king's  hands  by  reason  of  an  act  in  Parliament  at  Westminster,  4  November, 
1  Edward  IV.  with  all  issues  from  Easter  last,  and  the  reversion  on  the 
death  of  Richard  Quatermayns,  esquire,  of  the  manor  of  Wikmere,  co. 
Norfolk,  late  of  William,  late  viscount  Beaumont,  and  in  the  king's  hands 
by  his  forfeiture  aud  by  reason  of  the  act  aforesaid.  By  p.s. 

Aug.  12.  Whereas  by  letters  patent  dated  8  June,  3  Edward  IV.  the  king  granted 
Westminster,  to  Richard  Whetehill,  esquire,  and  Adrian  Whetehill  the  offices  of  controller 
of  the  town  and  marches  of  Calais  and  the  mint  there,  and  the  personal 
residence  there  of  the  said  Richard  is  very  requisite  for  the  good  governance 
of  the  town  and  marches,  the  king  grants  that  he  shall  not  be  compelled 
to  attend  personally  at  the  Exchequer  to  make  testifications  or  controlments 
concerning  his  office  but  may  send  a  deputy  for  that  purpose.  By  p.s. 


31  EM  BRAN  E  1. 

Aug.  9.  Grant  to  the  king's  knight  William  Hastyuges,  king's  chamberlain, 
Westminster,  whom  the  king  has  raised  to  the  rank  of  baron,  and  the  heirs  of  his  body, 
in  consideration  of  his  good  service  against  Henry  VI.  and  Jasper,  earl  of 
Pembroke,  James,  earl  of  Wiltshire,  and  other  rebels  and  the  nearness  of 
blood  to  the  king  of  Katharine  his  wife,  daughter  of  the  king's  uncle 
Richard,  late  earl  of  Salisbury,  and  for  the  better  maintenance  of  his  estate, 
of  the  castle,  honour,  manor  and  lordship  of  Folkyngham  with  its  members 
and  the  manors  and  lordships  of  Lavyngton  and  Aslakby,  co.  Lincoln,  the 
manors  and  lordships  of  Lougheburgh  and  Shepeshede,  co.  Leicester,  the 
manor  and  lordship  of  Welburn,  a  moiety  of  the  manor  of  Bycar  and  the 
manor  and  lordship  of  Awethorp,  co.  Lincoln,  the  manor  of  Edelmeton 
alias  Edmondtou  called  '  Wilbyes '  in  Totenham,  co.  Middle.sex,  all  the 
pourparty  late  of  William  Beaumont,  knight,  late  viscount  Beaumont,  of 
the  honour  called  '  Wynchestrefee '  in  the  counties  of  Leicester  and 
Warwick,  the  manor  and  lordship  of  Bolton  Percy,  co.  York,  the  manors 
of  Birthorp,  Repynghale,  Sapyrtou  or  Sapurton  and  Ropesley,  co.  Lincoln, 
the  advowsons  of  the  churches  of  Walton  on  le  Wold  and  Cosj'ngtou, 
CO.  Leicester,  and  all  lands,  rents,  reversions,  services  and  possessions,  late 
of  the  same  William  Beaumont  in  Folkyngham,  Lavyngton,  Aslakby, 
Lougheburgh,  Shepeshede,  Welburn,  Bycar,  Avethorp,  Edelmeton,  Bolton 
Percy,  Birthorpe,  Repynghale,  Sapyrton  and  Ropesley  aforesaid  and 
Barowe  aud  Quarndon,  co.  Leicester,  the  manors  and  lordships  of  Stoke 


27 


1467.  Membrane  1 — cont. 

Dawbeney  and  Sutton,  with  the  advowson  of  the  church  of  Stoke  Dawbeney, 
CO.  Northampton,  the  honour,  castle,  manor  and  lordship  of  Bevour  alias 
Beauvoir  alias  Bealvoir  o/»«s  BcUover,  with  the  park  there  and  its  members 
of  Wolsthorp,  CO.  Lincoln,  Barkeston,  Pkimgartli,  Kedmyld  and  Hardeby, 
CO.  Leicester,  with  the  advowsons  of  the  priory  of  Bevour  and  the  churches 
of  Hardeby,  Wolstiiorpc  and  Redmylde,  and  a  rent  called  '  Castelward,'  the 
manor  of  Bottesford  alias  Botellesford,  with  the  hamlets  of  Normanton 
and  Esthorp,  and  the  advowson  of  the  church  of  Bottesford.  co.  Leicester, 
the  manor  of  Hadyngton,  co.  Lincoln,  and  all  lands,  rents,  services, 
reversions  and  possessions  in  Stoke  Dawbeney,  Sutton,  Wilbaston, 
Assheley,  Bevour,  Wollesthorpe,  Barkeston,  Plumgarth,  Iledmylde, 
Hardeby,  Bottesford,  Normanton,  Estthorpe  and  Hadyngton  aforesaid,  late 
of  Thomas,  late  lord  of  Roos,  in  the  king's  hands  by  reason  of  an  act  of 
forfeiture  in  Parliament  at  Westminster,  4  November,  1  Edward  IV.  and 
a  tenement  called  '  le  Newe  Line '  in  the  parish  of  St.  Benet,  Tamystrete, 
London,  alias  '  Beaumont  Inne '  in  the  parish  of  St.  Benet  in  the  ward  of 
Baynardescastoll,  London,  to  hold  from  Easter  last  with  knights'  fees, 
advowsons,  wards,  marriages,  reliefs,  escheats,  courts  leet,  views  of  fi-ank* 
pledge,  parks,  warrens,  chaces,  fairs,  markets,  waters,  fisheries  and  all  other 
profits,  by  the  services  of  as  many  knights'  fees,  and  as  many  other  rents 
and  services  as  they  were  held  by  before  the  first  day  of  March, 
1  Edward  IV. ;  and  the  reversion  on  the  death  of  Katharine,  tluchess  of 
Norfolk,  of  the  manor  and  lordship  of  Beaumaner,  the  manors  of  Barowo 
and  Quarndon,  the  manor  and  lordship  of  Whitwyk  witli  its  members,  the 
manors  and  lordships  of  Rotby,  Bochaston,  Neuton,  Hokelscote,  Donyngton 
and  Merkefeld  and  the  manor  of  VVhityngton,  co.  Leicester,  and  the  manor 
and  lordship  of  Hekyngton,  co.  Lincoln,  with  knights'  I'ces,  advowsons, 
wards,  marriages,  reliefs,  escheats,  courts  leet,  views  of  frank-plodge,  park.*:, 
woods,  warrens,  chaces,  fairs,  markets,  waters,  fisheries  and  all  profits,  to 
hold  by  fealty  only ;  with  licence  to  enfeoff  any  persons  for  lifet)f  the  above 
or  any  parcel  tliereof.  By  p.s. 

Aug.  9.  Grant  to  the  king's  knight  Walter  Blount,  lord  Montjoye,  whom  the  king 
Westminster,  has  raised  to  the  rank  of  a  baron,  and  the  heirs  male  of  his  body  of  a 
messuage  and  4  acres  of  land  in  VVyggdon,  co.  Devon,  six  messuages  and 
20  acres  of  land  in  Launceston,  co.  Cornwall,  and  a  messuage  and  4  acres 
of  land  in  Chagcford,  co.  Devon,  late  of  William  Cary  aliuti  Caree,  knight, 
and  in  the  king's  hands  by  reason  of  an  act  of  forfeiture  in  Parliament  at 
Westminster,  21  January,  4  Edward  IV.  a  moiety  of  the  manor  of 
Coteriche,  co.  Worcester,  and  all  lands,  rents,  reversions  and  services  in 
Coteriche  late  of  William  Vaux  alias  Vawes  alias  Vaulx,  knight,  and  in 
the  king's  hands  by  reason  of  an  act  of  forfeiture  in  Parliament  at 
Westminster,  4  November,  1  Edward  IV.  and  the  manor  of  Chylmelay 
alias  Chymlay,  co.  Devon,  and  all  lands,  rents  reversions  and  services  in 
Chilmelay,  of  Thomas  Courtenay,  late  carl  of  Devon,  and  in  the  king's 
hands  by  reason  of  the  last-named  act,  with  knights'  fee.«,  advowsons, 
courts  leet,  views  of  frank-pledge,  liberties,  franchises,  fairs,  markets,  park.s, 
warrens  and  profits,  to  hold  by  the  rents  and  services  of  as  many  knights' 
fees,  and  as  many  other  rents  and  services  as  they  were  held  by  before 
4  M.arch,  1  Edward  IV.  and  all  issues  from  Easter  last.  By  p.s. 

July  28.  Grant  for  life  from  Easter  last  to  the  king's  servant  John  Fortescu, 
Westminster,  esquire,  of  the  manors  of  Halwell,  Highaunton  by  Shepeswasshe,  Northlew 
and  Ilohvay,  co.  Devon,  in  the  king's  hands  by  the  forfeiture  of  William 
Cary,  knight,  with  knights'  fees,  advowsons,  courts  leet,  view.s  of  frank- 
pledge, parks,  warrens,  chaces,  wastes,  markets,  fair.s,  liberties,  franchises, 
wards,  marriages,  escheats,  reliefs  and  services  of  tenants,  not  exceeding 
the  value  of  24/.  yearly.  By  p.s. 


28 


CALENDAR  OP  PATENT  ROLLS. 


1467. 


Membraxes  24d — 20«?. 

Commissions  of  the  peace  in  various  counties  pursuant  to  the  statutes  and 
ordinances  of  Winchester,  Northampton,  Westminster  .and  Cambridge. 
(See  Appendix.) 


Membrane  \Qd. 

June  28.  Commission  to  John  Martyn,  one  of  the  king's  Serjeants  at  arms,  to 
Westminster,  arrest  certain  malefactors  who  came  upon  a  vessel  sailing  upon  the  sea 
near  the  Isle  of  Tenet,  which  certain  merchants  of  Genoa  in  the  city  of 
London  had  laden  with  130  bales  of  woad  at  Sandwich  of  their  own  goods 
to  take  to  London,  and  carried  the  vessel  and  woad  oft'  to  places  unknown, 
and  to  bring  them  before  the  king  in  Chancery  and  to  seize  the  vessel  and 
woad  and  put  the  same  in  safe  custody.  By  p.s. 


Membrane  \Qd. 

April  18.  Commission  de  walliis  et  fossatis  to  Thomas,  abbot  of  the  monastery  of 
Westminster.  St.  Mary  Graces  by  the  Tower  of  London,  Thomas  Urswyk,  Thomas 
Frowyk,  esquire,  John  Fyloll,  Thomas  Burgoyn,  Robert  Tanfeld,  WiUiam 
Chadworth,  esquire,  Robert  Grene,  esquire,  Hugh  Kyngeston  and  John 
Blofeld  by  the  coast  of  the  sea  and  marsh  between  the  mill  of  St.  Katharine 
by  the  Tower  of  London  to  the  chapel  of  St.  Mary  Metfelon  and  thence  to 
the  church  of  St.  Dunstan,  Stebenhith,  and  thence  to  the  church  of 
St.  Leonard,  Bremley,  and  thence  to  the  river  called  le  Ley,  and  thence  to 
the  Thames  and  thence  to  the  said  mill  in  the  county  of  Middlesex. 

Oct.  24.        The  like  to  the  said  abbot,  Thomas  Urswyk,  Thomas  Frowyk,  esquire, 
Westminster.  Thomas  Burgoyn,  Robert  Tanfeld,  William  Chadworth,  esciuire,  Robert 
Grene,  esquire,  Hugh  Kyngeston,  Thomas  Lamberd,  Hugh  Ratclif  and 
John  Blofeld  in  the  same  places. 

Nov.  1.5.  The  like  to  the  king's  kinsman  Richard,  earl  of  Warwick  and  Salisbury, 
Westminster.  Humphrey  Bourghchier  of  Cromwell,  knight,  Henry  Stafford,  knight, 
Thomas  Burgh,  knight,  Oliver  Seintjohn,  esq  uire,  A^'^illiam  Husce,  William 
Coote,  Richard  Welby,  Richard  Walcote,  Thomas  Wymbyssh,  Richard 
Pynchebek,  Leonard  Thornburgh,  Richard  Fendyk,  William  Fairfax,  Simon 
Hareby  and  John  Wakerley  from  Staunford,  co.  Lincoln,  to  Dodyngton 
Pygot,  CO.  Lincoln,  and  thence  by  the  bounds  of  Kesteven  and  Holand  to 
the  sea  and  by  the  coast  of  the  sea  to  Walpole,  co.  Norfolk,  and  Wysbycli, 
CO.  Cambridge,  and  thence  by  the  bounds  of  the  marsh  to  Huntjngdoii, 
Peterborough,  and  Staunford  aforesaid. 


3IEMBRANE  15d. 

May  9.        Commission   to  William  Payntour,  Thomas  Neweut  and  Nicholas 
Westminster.  Johnson  to  take  waggons,  carts,  horses  and  oxen  and  workmen,  labourers, 
and  other  men  and  olher  necessaries  for  the  carriage  requiretl  by  the  king's 
kinsman  John,  carl  of  Worcester,  who  is  going  to  Ireland  for  the  repression 
of  the  rebels  there. 


Membrane  I4d. 

March  12.  Commission  to  Robert  Harecourt,  knight,  Richard  Danvers,  Richard 
Westminster.  Halle  and  Henry  Reyuford  to  deliver  the  gaol  of  Oxford  of  David  Wiliijim 

a/i(/s  Giliam  late  of  Cardifl'in  AYales,  'yoman,'  prisoner  there. 
March  15.      The  like  to  Richard  Byngham,  knight,  and  John  Stanley,  knight,  to 
Westminster,  deliver  the  gaol  of  Stafford  of  William  Rippon  alius  Halle  of  Lichefeld, 


7  EDWARD  IV.— Paut  I. 


29 


1467-  Membrane  \\d — cont. 

CO.  Stafford,  '  laborer,'  and  Ellen  late  the  wife  of  William  Madeley  of 
Lichcfclcl,  '  huswyf,'  prisoners  there. 

Ajn'il  1.  Coramifjsion  to  John  Dey,  mayor  of  the  town  of  Kyngeston  on  Hull, 
Westiniuster.  Nicholas  Elys,  John  Hadelsey  and  the  sheriff  of  the  said  town  to  seize  a 
ship  of  Derteiauth  of  which  Thomas  alias  Thomkyn  Luky  is  owner  in  the 
port  of  the  said  town,  which  the  king  is  informed  was  concerned  in  the 
capture  and  spoiling  at  sea  of  a  ship  of  .John  de  Veer,  merchant  of 
Haremuth  in  Sciand,  laden  with  divers  goods  and  merchandise,  contrary  to 
the  friendship  between  the  king  and  the  men  of  Seland,  and  to  keep  the 
said  ship  and  goods  and  merchandise  and  gear  in  safe-custody  and  to  arrest 
the  said  Thomas  and  bring  him  before  the  king  in  council. 

I\Iarch  30.       Commission  to  William  Fetherston  to  take  masters  and  mariners  for 
WcstmiDster.  certain  ships  that  the  king  has  ordered  to  be  prepared  for  the  defence  of  the 
realm. 

April  17.       Commi.ssiou  to  William  Canynges,  mayor  of  Bristol,  and  Richard  Joye, 
Westminster,  master  of  a  ship  called  le  George  of  Worcestre,  to  take  mariners  for  the 
said  ship,  which  has  been  ordered  among  others  for  the  conduct  of  the 
king's  kinsman  John,  earl  of  Worcester,  who  is  going  to  Ireland  for  the 
repression  of  the  rebels  there. 


Membraxe  13c/. 


May  11. 

Westminster. 


July  9. 
Westminster. 


Aug.  14. 

Westiniuster. 


Aug.  28. 

W'estmiii&ter. 


Sept.  2(5. 

Wi'slmiiister. 


Commission  of  oyer  and  terminer  to  .John  ap  Gwylym,  cs^iuire,  Thomas 
Lymeryk,  Thomas  Lewos  and  Thomas  ap  Morgan  touching  all  felonies  and 
trespasses  committed  by  Walter  Knyght  within  the  lordship  of  C'hipstowe 
in  the  march  of  ^V'alcs  adjoining  the  county  of  Gloucester  and  the  liberiy 
of  the  same. 

Commission  to  Edward  Skellou,  esquire,  one  of  the  king's  Serjeants  at 
arms,  and  John  Wild  to  arrest  John  Lorkyn,  *  wever,'  and  bring  him 
before  the  king  in  Chancery  to  find  security  that  he  will  not  do  bodily 
harm  to  AVilliani  Aunsell  or  any  of  the  king's  people. 

Commission  to  John  Dcnys  of  Orlay,  John  Orchard,  .John  FitzJames, 
eJohn  Pollard,  William  Coffyn,  John  Pcnfoun,  John  Gogh,  William  Jacob, 
William  Danvers,  John  Donfon,  William  Milford,  Richard  Wliclo  and  the 
sheriffs  of  Somerset,  15crks,  Devon  and  Cornwall  to  enquire  of  what  lands, 
rents,  services,  reversions  and  possessions  Thomas  Ormond  alias  Botillicr, 
knight,  and  Anne  his  wife  wore  seised  on  4  November,  1  Edw.ard  IV.  or 
before  that  time. 

Commission  to  the  king's  kinsman  John,  earl  of  Shrewsbury,  William 
Herbert  of  llerberl,  knight,  and  the  sheriff  of  Salop  to  arrest  Roger 
Kynaston,  late  of  Wallord,  co.  Salop,  esipiiro,  alias  of  Knokyn  in  the 
marches  of  Wales,  and  bring  him  before  the  king  in  council. 

Commission  to  H!ilj)h  de  (Iravstok,  knight,  Hugh  T.,outhcr  the  elder, 
Richard  Rcwelewe,  William  Bethom  and  the  coroners  in  the  county  of 
Westmoreland  to  enquire  what  lands  Ilanulph  Dacre,  knight,  held  in  the 
said  county  on  the  day  of  his  deatli,  how  much  they  are  worth,  when  he 
died,  who  is  his  ne.vt  heir,  and  who  has  occupied  them  since  his  death. 


Memuhase  \2ft. 

May  1.         Comtnlssion  to  Thomas  Throgmcrton,  Richard  Croft  the  elder,  Thomas 
Westuiinslcr.  Lygon  and  the  sheriff  of  AVorcester  to  arrest  John  Morgan  of  Worcester, 
esquire,  Ralph  Wysluun  and  John  Toiumcs  and  bring  them  before  the  king 


30 


CALENDAR  OF  PATENT  ROLLS. 


J^gi^^  Membrane  \2d — cont. 

in  Olianeery  to  find  security  that  they  will  not  do  bodily  harm  to  Robert 
Wynter  or  any  of  the  king's  people. 

May  10.  Commission  to  Thomas  Tresham,  knight,  John  Catesby,  John  Dyve, 
Wcstuiinstcr.  Robert  Tanfeld,  John  Eltonhede  and  William  Lago  to  dehver  the  gaol  of 
Northampton  of  John  Hoton,  late  of  Coventre,  '  yoman,'  Henry  Davy  late 
of  Tliorpe  Mallesore,  co.  Northampton,  '  husbondman,'  William  Davy  late 
of  Thorpe  Mallesore,  '  husbondman,'  Edmund  Trussel  late  of  Elmesthorpe, 
CO.  Leicester,  esquire,  and  Richard  Wright  late  of  Aylmesthorpe,  '  yoman,' 
Iirisoners  there. 

June  10.        The  like    to  John  Grevile,  knight,  Thomas  Brygge,  John  Brygge, 
AVestminstcr.  Thomas  Lymeryk,  Thomas  Frenssh  and  Thomas  Morgan  to  deliver  the 
gaol  of  Gloucester  of  Thomas  Eggecombe  of  Hembury,  co.  Gloucester, 
clerk,  prisoner  there. 

June  23.  Commission  to  the  justices  of  tlie  peace,  the  keepers  of  the  ports  and 
Westminster,  other  maritime  places,  the  sheriffs,  mayors,  bailiffs  and  constables  within 
the  counties  of  Lincoln  and  Norfolk  to  enquire  into  the  petition  of  Richard 
Cruceman,  late  master  of  a  ship  called  le  George  of  Hanburgh  in  Almain, 
and  other  merchants  of  the  same  that  whereas  the  said  sliip  laden  with  divers 
goods  and  merchandise  was  wrecked  by  the  intemperateness  of  the  sea  and 
the  negligence  of  the  pilot,  and  the  said  Richard  and  merchants  and  the 
mariners  and  servants  of  the  ship  came  alive  to  land  so  that  it  could  net  be 
called  wreck  of  .sea,  and  a  great  part  of  the  goods  and  merchandise 
were  cast  ashore  along  the  coasts  of  the  said  counties  and  recovered,  these 
may  be  restored  to  them  in  accordance  with  the  statute  of  27  Edward  III.  ; 
and  to  cause  such  restitution  to  be  made. 


31 


7  EDWARD  IV.— Part  II. 


1467. 

Sept.  9. 
Dosinersfield. 


Sept.  6. 
DogmersficJd. 


Sci)t.  S. 
Dogmersfifkl. 


Sept.  15. 

Doguieisflcld. 

Sept.  IG. 
Dogiiicrsfiuld 


Sept.  17. 
Dogmcrsfk'ld, 

Sept.  25. 

Do"iiiersfield 


Sc[)t.  29. 
iJognoersfield 


Membrane  24. 

Grant  for  life  to  William  ThrelkeUl  of  the  office  of  serjeant  at  arms 
withiu  the  king's  land  and  lordship  of  Ireland,  with  wages  of  12d.  daily 
from  Easter  last  at  the  hands  of  the  treasurer  of  the  said  land  and  all  other 
accustomed  profits,  and  a  livery  of  the  suit  of  other  Serjeants  at  arms  yearly 
at  Christmas  at  the  groat  wardrobe.  13y  p.s. 

Grant  for  life  to  the  king's  servant  Geoffrey  Warton,  esquire,  of  the 
manor  of  Thorneton,  co.  York,  not  exceeding  the  value  of  10/.  yearly,  and 
all  lands,  rents,  reversions  and  services  in  Thorneton,  late  of  Robert 
lioUyng,  and  in  the  king's  hands  by  reason  of  his  forfeiture  and  by  virtue 
of  au  act  in  Parliament  at  Westminster,  4  November,  1  Edward  IV.  with 
knights'  fees,  courts  leet,  views  of  frank-pledge,  liberties  and  franchises  and 
with  issues  from  Easter  last,  to  hold  by  the  services  of  as  many  knights' 
fees  and  as  many  other  rents  and  ser\nces  as  they  were  held  by  before 
4  March,  1  Edward  IV.  By  p.s. 

(irant  to  the  wardens  and  commonalty  of  tiic  mistery  of  mercery  of  the 
cily  of  London,  in  repayment  of  the  sum  of  373/.  6*.  8d.  lent  by  them  to 
the  king  lor  Ihe  defeuci?  of  the  sea,  that  they  or  any  merchant  of  the  same 
misU^ry  or  their  factors  or  attorneys  may  ship  any  merchandise  in  the  port 
of  Loudon,  wools,  hides  and  wool-fells  excepted,  in  any  ships  of  denizens 
or  aliens,  and  take  the  same  to  foreign  parts  and  bring  back  other  merchan- 
dise from  foreign  i)arts  to  the  said  port,  with  the  exception  of  wines  of 
the  growth  of  tlie  duchy  of  Aquitaiuo,  which  are  only  brought  in  ships  of 
denizen.s,  quit  of  customs  and  subsidies  until  they  shall  thus  be  .satisfied  of 
the  said  sum.  By  p.s. 

Grant  to  John,  lord  Weulok,  by  way  of  regard,  of  all  the  moveable  goods 
of  Henry,  late  duke  of  Somerset,  and  Andrew  TroUope  or  any  of  their 
servants,  rebels,  which  he  may  find  in  any  [)lace  within  the  realm.     By  p.s. 

Pardon  to  the  bishop  of  Salisbury  and  Andrew  Brent,  keeper  of  his 
prison,  of  the  escapes  from  the  said  prison,  while  the  bishop  was,  as  he 
still  is,  beyond  the  seas  on  the  king's  service,  of  William  Arnold,  clerk, 
Thomas  Conway,  Richard  Greno,  Richard  Pyket  and  .John  Colyus,  clerks, 
convicted  of  felony,  and  all  fines  and  iuncrcements  due  to  the  king  for  the 
same.  By  p.s. 

General  pardon  to  Louis  Davy  (i/uis  Smyth,  late  of  Loudon,  'yoman,'  of 
all  olfcnecs  committed  by  him  before  13  September.  By  p.s. 

Grant  for  life  to  the  king's  servant  John  a  Wode,  esquire,  of  the  lordship 
and  manor  of  Topshani,  co.  Devon,  and  all  lauds,  rents  and  services  in 
Topsliam  of  Thomas,  late  earl  of  Devon,  with  knights'  fees,  advowsons, 
courts,  views  of  frank-pledge,  warrens,  profits,  liberties  and  franchises  and 
all  issues  from  Ea.ster  last,  in  the  king".-!  hands  by  reason  of  the  forfeiture 
of  the  said  earl  and  )))■  virtue  of  an  act  in  I'arlianient  at  Westminster, 
4  November,  1  Edward  IV.  to  hold  by  the  services  of  as  many  knightb' 
.  fees  and  as  many  other  rents  and  services  as  they  Avere  held  by  before 
4  March,  1  Edward  IV.  By  p.s. 

Grant,  during  good  liehaviour,  to  Ralph  Wolseley  of  the  ofiicc  of  fourth 
baron  of  the  Exchequer  in  the  place  of  .lohn  lugoldesby,  with  tiie 
accustomed  fees,  wages,  regards,  vestures  aud  other  profits,  receiving  yearly 


32 


J 467.  Membrane  24 — cont. 

such  wages,  fees  and  regards  as  other  barons  of  the  Exchequer  had  In  the 
time  of  Edward  III.  By  p.s, 

Sept.  30.        Appointment  for  life  of  Master  John  Gunthorp,  king's  clerk,  secretary 
Dogmersficld.  of  the  queen,  as  master  of  the  college  called  the  King's  Hall  in  the 
University  of  Cambridge,  in  the  king's  gift  by  the  decease  of  Master 
Thomas  Seintjuste,  king's  chaplain.  By  p.s. 


Membrane  23. 

Sept.  18.  Grant  <o  Joan  Swete  late  the  wife  of  Thomas  Swetc,  John  Scot,  knight, 
Dogmersfield.  George  Darell,  knight,  Richard  Haute,  esquire,  and  Richard  Bole, 
'  gentilman,'  and  their  heirs  and  assigns  of  the  manors  of  Rokebourne, 
CO.  Southampton,  .Northcourte  in  Combe  Byset,  co.  Wilts,  and  Okele}, 
Overattebere,  Netheratteberc  and  Homer,  co.  Somerset,  and  all  messuages, 
lands,  rents,  reversions  and  services  pertaining  to  them,  for  the  term  of 
five  years  without  impeachment  of  waste  and  without  rendering  any 
account,  with  reversion  to  the  king  for  the  use  of  the  said  Joan  and  her 
heirs  ;  in  accordance  with  a  supplication  by  the  said  Joan  that  whereas 
she  and  her  said  husband  were  seised  of  the  above-mentioned  premises  in 
their  demesne  as  of  fee  as  in  her  right  and  enfeoffed  the  king  of  the  same 
to  the  use  of  themselves  and  her  heirs,  and  he  was  seised  of  them  until 
Thomas  Horsey,  John  Calewey  and  John  Wykes  entered  into  them,  as 
appears  by  divers  inquisitions,  and  so  they  still  remain  in  the  king's  hands, 
he  should  grant  them  as  above.  By  K. 

Vacated  because  otheririse  below. 

Aug.  2t).  Grant  for  life  to  the  king's  sister  Anne,  duchess  of  Exeter,  of  the 
"Westminster,  lordships  and  manors  of  Mayuarbyere  and  Pennelay,  co.  Pembroke,  and 
the  laud  and  lordship  of  Hope  and  Hopedale  in  Wales  with  their  members 
and  all  royal  rights,  franchises,  liberties,  jurisdictions,  rents,  services,  courts 
lect,  views  of  frank-pledge,  cantreds,  commotes  and  other  profits,  the  town 
of  Norwych,  co.  Chester,  and  a  yearly  rent  of  7/.  Gs.  8c/.  from  the  issues  of 
the  lands  of  Overmersshe,  co.  Chester,  the  manors  of  Stevyngton,  co. 
Bedford,  and  Ludforde,  co.  Somerset,  the  manors  of  Bovytracy,  Northlieu, 
Hokleswortliy  and  Langacre,  the  castle,  lordships  and  manors  of  Bcrnestaple, 
Combemartyn,  Southmolton,  Dertyngton  and  Blakebourneboty,  the  hundreds 
of  Fremyngton  and  Southmolton  and  the  manor  of  Toryngton,  co.  Devon, 
the  manors  of  Haselbeare  and  Blakedon  and  the  hundreds  of  Stone  and 
Cattesasshe,  co.  Somerset,  the  manois  of  Fletc  Damarle,  Holbertou, 
Thorneton  and  Wynclctracy,  co.  Devon,  and  an  inn  called  Coldeherburgh 
and  Coldcherbui  ghlane  in  the  city  of  London,  which  she  lield  jointly  with 
Henry,  late  duke  of  Exeter,  her  hu.«ban(l,  to  themselves  and  the  heirs  of 
their  bodies,  the  bailiwick  of  the  forcstership  in  the  forest  of  Grouelc 
called  '  Southbaille,'  co.  Wilts,  the  manors  of  Newton  and  Haydok,  co. 
Lancaster,  the  manors  of  Dalbere  and  Dalboresleies  and  Wrixworth,  co. 
Derl)y,  the  manor  of  Rcdlyngtoii,  co.  Rutland,  the  manor  of  Great 
Giiddesden,  co.  Hertford,  and  the  manor  of  Takebere,  co.  Cornwall,  late  of 
the  said  duke,  the  manors  of  Merton,  co.  Westmoreland,  and  Langton,  co. 
York,  lato  of  Thomas  Gray,  knight,  lord  of  Riclicmond  Gray,  and  all  those 
lands,  rents  and  services  called  'Dogettis'  and  '  Mori-ses '  lying  in  the 
towns  of  Canwcdon,  Hakwell  and  Little  Stanbrigge,  all  those  lands,  rents 
and  services  called  *  Wakerynges '  lying  in  the  town  of  Great  Wakerynge, 
and  two  marshes  called  '  Riggewerde  '  and  '  Tilwcrde  '  in  '  the  town  of 
Great  Stanbrigge,  co.  Essex,  late  of  James,  lale  carl  of  Wiltshire,  with 
knights'  fees,  advowsons,  services,  fairs,  markets,  warrens,  chaccs,  fisheries 
and  emoluments,  in  the  king's  hands  by  reason  of  an  act  of  forfeiture  in 
Parliament  at  Westminster,  4  November,  1  Edward  IV.  to  bold  from 


3.3 


1467.  Membrane  23— cont. 

Eiister  last  without  impeacliment  of  wa?to  by  tlic  services  of  as  many 
knights'  fees  and  as  mauy  other  rents  and  services  as  they  were  held  by 
before  4  March,  I  Edward  IV.  with  remainders  to  her  daughter  Anne 
and  the  heirs  of  her  body  and  to  the  heirs  of  the  body  of  the  duchess. 
Grant  to  her  also  of  the  manor  of  Fremyngton,  co.  Devon,  which  she 
held  jointly  with  her  husband,  with  knights'  fees  and  advowsons  to 
hold  as  above  from  Easter  last  for  life  and  for  seven  years  after  her  death 
to  fulfil  her  will,  with  remainder  as  above.  Grant  also  that  she  and  her 
said  daughter  and  their  heirs  shall  have  in  the  premises  specified  wreck  of 
sea,  chattels  of  felons,  fugitives  and  outlaws,  chattels  called  waif  and  stray, 
treasure  trove,  deodand  and  other  profits.  And  grant  to  her  of  60/.  yearly 
for  life  from  Easter  last,  viz.  40/.  from  tlie  issues  of  the  county  of  I)evon 
and  20/.  from  the  issues  of  the  counties  of  Cambridge  and  Huntingdon. 

By  p.9. 

Sept.  29.  Grant  to  .loan  Swete  late  the  wife  of  Thomas  Swete,  John  Scot,  knight, 
Dogmersfield.  George  Darell,  knight,  Richard  Haute  the  elder,  esquire,  and  Richard  I5ole, 
'  gentilman,'  and  their  heirs  and  assigns  of  the  manors  of  Rokebourne,  co. 
Southanipton,  Northcourte  in  Combe  Biset,  co.  Wilts,  and  Okeley, 
Overattcbere,  Netherattoberc  and  Horner,  co.  Somerset,  and  all  meisuages, 
lands,  rents,  reversions  and  services  perUiining  to  thoin,  for  the  term  of  five 
years,  without  impeachment  of  waste  and  wilhout  rendering  any  account, 
with  reversion  to  th(!  king  for  the  use  of  the  said  Joan  and  her  heirs  ;  in 
accordance  with  a  supplication  by  the  said  Joan  that  whereas  she  and  her 
said  husband  were  .'•ciscd  of  the  above-mentioned  premises  in  their  <lemesne 
•is  of  fee  as  in  her  right  and  enfeoffed  the  king  oi"  the  same  to  the  use  of 
themselves  and  her  heirs,  and  he  was  .seized  of  the  same  until  Thomas 
Horsey,  John  Calewey  and  John  Wykes  entered  into  the  said  manors  of 
Rokebourne  and  Norllieourle  and  the  same  Thomas,  .John  sun\  ,Iohn  and 
Thomas  Lyte  ententd  into  the  said  manor  of  Okeley  and  John  Huntley, 
Isabel  late  the  wife  of  Tiiomas  H\intley,  rJohn  Sydenham  and  ^Villiam 
Lucok  entered  into  the  said  manors  of  C>verattcbere,  Xetlierattebere  and 
Homer,  as  appears  by  divers  inquisitions,  and  so  tliey  still  remain  in  the 
king's  hands,  he  should  grant  them  as  above.  l>y  K. 

Sept.  30.  Presentation  of  Richard  Lake  to  the  parish  church  of  Highonger,  in  the 
I)oginer.sfiel(l.  diocese  of  London,  void  by  the  death  of  Richard  Laugstrother.         By  j).8. 


Membrane  22. 

Aug.  22.  Grant  to  Ralph  Verney,  citizen  and  alderman  of  London,  and  the  heirs 
Westminster,  of  his  body  of  two  messuages,  64.^  acres  of  land  aiul  meadow  and  2s.  of  rent 
in  Alesbury,  co.  Buckingham,  three  messuages,  and  l.)0  ncvcn  of  land  and 
meadow  in  ISertou,  co.  Buckingham,  and  two  crofts,  20  acres  of  land  and 
meadow  and  2*.  of  rent  in  Burcote,  co.  Buckingham,  laic  of  William  Wandes- 
ford  alias  Waynesford,  esquire,  and  in  the  king's  hands  by  reason  of  his 
forfeiture  and  by  virtue  of  an  act  in  Parliament  at  Westminster,  4  November, 
1  Edward  IV.,  with  knights'  fees,  courts  leet,  views  of  frank-pledge, 
liberties,  franchises  and  profits,  to  hold  from  4  March,  1  Edward  IV.,  by 
the  services  of  as  many  knights'  fees  and  as  many  other  rents  and  services 
as  they  Avere  held  by  before  tliat  date.  By  p.s. 

Aug.  24.  Grant  to  Richard  Wydevile,  earl  of  Ryvers,  lord  of  Grafton  and  la  Mote, 
We.^itminster.  treasurer  of  England,  and  Thomas  Pounde  and  John  Roger,  esquires,  and 
William  Kerver,  citizen  and  mercer  of  London,  in  repayment  of  the  8um  of 
6,.'500/.  due  to  them,  as  appears  in  the  receipt  of  the  Exchequer,  of  all 
moneys  arising  from  the  subsidy  called  tonnage  and  poundage  in  the  port 
of  London  and  from  the  said  subsidy  and  all  customs  and  subsidies  in  the 

y  9618C.  C 


34 


CALENDAR  OF  PATENT  ROLLS. 


I4g'7.  Membrane  22 — cont. 

ports  of  Southampton,  Sandwich,  Bristol,  Exeter,  Dartmouth,  Plymmouth, 
Fowey  and  Pole  and  from  all  wards,  marriages,  reliefs,  escheats,  Ibrfeitures, 
custodies  of  heirs  and  lands  and  temporalities  of  archbishoprics  and  other 
ecclesiastical  benefices,  until  they  shall  be  fully  satisfied  of  the  said  sum. 

By  p.s. 

Sept.  4.        Grant  for  life  to  the  king's  servant  William  Claybroke,  yeoman  of  the 
Dogmersfield.  king's  larder,  of  the  custody  of  the  gaol  of  the  king's  castle  of  York  with 
the  portership  of  the  same,  with  the  accustomed  fees.  By  p.s. 

Sept.  4.  General  pardon  to  Geoffrey  Johnson  alias  Griffith  Johnson  late  of 
Dogmersfield.  Brakstede,  co.  Essex,  '  yoraan.'  By  K. 

Sept.  8.  Grant  to  the  king's  kinsmen  Thomas,  archbishop  of  Canterbury,  George, 
Dogmersfield.  archbishop  of  York,  Henry,  earl  of  Essex,  and  Henry  Stafford,  knight, 
and  John  Stafford,  knight,  sons  of  Humphrey,  late  duke  of  Buckingham, 
and  Walter  Blount,  knight,  lord  Mounijoy,  of  the  manor  of  Stowebardolf, 
the  manor  of  Houghton  and  Fareswell,  the  manor  of  Wiiynburgh  and 
Mateshall,  the  manor  of  Canteley,  the  manor  of  Strumpeshall  and  the  manor 
of  Castrebardolf,  co.  Norfolk,  the  manor  of  Ilketeshall,  the  manor  of 
Denyugtou  and  Brundisshe,  and  the  manor  of  Gretyngham,  co.  Suffolk,  and 
the  manor  of  Reskyngton  and  Dygby  and  the  manor  of  Westburgli  and 
Cathorp,  co.  Lincoln,  late  of  William  Beaumont,  knight,  late  lord  Beaumont, 
and  in  the  king's  hands  by  reason  of  an  act  in  Parliament  at  Westminster, 
4  November,  1  Edward  IV.  to  hold  with  knights'  fees,  advowsons,  wards, 
marriages,  reliefs,  escheats,  courts,  views  of  frank-pledge,  parks,  warrens, 
fairs,  markets,  liberties,  franchises  and  other  profits,  as  the  said  William  held 
them,  for  the  lives  of  the  said  William  and  Joan  his  wife,  daughter  of 
Humphrey,  late  duke  of  Buckingham,  for  her  use,  in  consideration  of  her 
nearness  of  blood  to  the  king,  with  remainder,  as  regards  the  said  manors  of 
Stowbardolf,  Roughtou  and  Fareswell,  Whynburgh  and  Mateshall  with 
knights'  fees  etc.  as  above,  to  the  heirs  of  her  body,  for  20^.  4rf.  to  be  paid  in 
the  hanaper.  By  p.s. 

Vacated  by  surrender  and  cancelled,  because  the  king  granted  the  same 
to  them  by  other  letters  patent  on  4  December ,  8  Edward  JV. 

Sept.  7.        Grant  for  life  to  William  Norys,  knight,  of  the  office  of  keeper  of  the 
Dogmersfield.  rolls  of  Chancery  in  Ireland,  with  the  accustomed  fees,  in  the  same  manner 
as  Thomas  Colt  or  any  other  occupant  of  the  office.  By  p.s. 

Grant  for  life  to  the  king's  servant  Thomas  Rokeleyes  alias  Parkar  of 
the  office  of  yeoman  veauti'cr  of  the  king's  dogs  called  '  bukhouudes,'  with 
the  accustomed  fees  at  the  hands  of  William  Brokas,  esquire,  master  of  the 
'  bukhoundes.'  By  p.s. 

Membranes  21 — 19. 

Jime  24.       Tnspeximns  and  confirmation  to  William,  the  abbot,  and  the  convent  of 
AVestminster.  jDeulacresse  of  a  charter  dated  at  Eltham,  30  January,  4  Edward  IIL 
\^Charter  Roll,  4  Edward  III.  No.  105],  inspecting  and  confirming  the 
following : — 

1.  A  charter  dated  at  Woodstock,  28  July,  31  Henry  III. 

2.  A  charter  dated  at  Rhuddlan,  )G  December,  11  Edward  I.  [Cha7-ter 

Roll,  11  Edward  1.  A^o.  46.] 

3.  A  charter  of  Ranulph,  earl  of  Chester  and  Lincoln.  [Monasticon, 

No.  VI.I 

4.  A  charter  dated  at  Malmesbury,  23  November,  9  John. 

5.  A  charter  dated  at  Reading,  25  October,  16  Henry  IIL,  inspecting 

and  confirming  No.  3. 
6-8.  Three  cliarters  of  the  said  earl  Ranulph. 


7  EDWARD  IV.— Part  II. 


35 


1467.  Membranes  21 — 19 — cnnt. 

9.  Another  charter  of  the  same.    [Monasticon,  No.  V1I.'\ 
10-14.  Five  other  charters  of  the  same. 

15,  A  charter  of  Edward  I.  before  he  assumed  the  governance  of  the  realm, 

dated  at  Chester,  5  January,  54  Henry  III. 
IG.  Letters  patent  of  the  same  dated  15  February,  54  Henry  III. 

17.  A  charter  of  Hugh,  earl  of  Chester.    \^Monasticon,  No. 

18.  Another  charter  of  the  same. 

19.  A  charter  of  the  said  earl  Ranulph. 

20.  A  writing  of  John,  earl  of  Chester. 

21 .  Divers  grants  not  dated  or  set  out  at  length. 

For  5  marks  paid  in  the  hanaper. 


Membrane  19 — cont. 


June  15. 
Westminster, 


July  IG. 
Westminster. 

Juno  22. 
Westminster. 


July  11. 
Westminster. 


June  9. 
Westminster 

Nov.  18. 
Westminster. 


Grant  (o  the  vicars  in  the  church  of  Holy  Trinity,  Chichester,  that  they 
and  tlieir  successors  may  elect  a  principal  whensoever  they  please,  and 
that  the  principal  and  vicars  shall  be  called  the  principal  and  commonalty 
of  the  vicars  of  the  church  of  Holy  Trinity,  Chichester,  and  shall  have  a 
common  .seal  and  shall  be  capable  of  acquiring  lands  and  possessions  and  of 
(•leading  and  being  impleaded ;  provided  that  the  dean  and  chapter  of  the 
said  church  shall  always  present  to  the  vicivrages  in  the  church  when  void 
according  to  the  ancient  statutes,  ordinances  and  customs,  and  that  this 
grant  shall  not  be  to  their  prejudice.  By  p.s. 

General  pardon  to  John  Water  alias  Bomlet  Lite  of  Longwyke,  co. 
Buckingham,  '  hushondman.'  By  p.s. 

Mandate  to  the  cschealor  in  the  county  of  Worcester  for  the  restitution 
of  the  temporalities  of  tiu?  monastery  ot"  Evesham,  in  the  dioces<!  of 
Worcester,  void  by  the  death  of  Richard  Penbroke,  last  abbot,  to  Richard 
Hawkcsbury,  monk  of  the  monastery,  who  has  been  elected  abbot  in 
accordance  with  an  indult  of  the  apostolic  see.  By  p.s. 

The  like  to  the  following  : — 

The  chancellor  in  the  county  palatine  of  Lancaster. 
The  escheator  in  the  county  of  Gloucester  and  the  march  of  Wales 
adjacent. 

The  escheator  in  the  county  of  Warwick. 
The  escheator  in  the  county  of  Northampton. 

The  escheator  in  the  county  of  Hereford  and  the  march  of  Wales 
adjacent. 

The  escheator  in  the  county  of  Stafford. 

John  Yonge,  mayor  of  the  city  of  London  and  escheator  in  that  city. 
Writ  de  intendendo  in  pursuance  to  the  tenants. 

Mandate  to  the  escheator  in  the  counties  of  Nottingham  and  Derby  for 
the  restitution  of  tiie  temporalities  of  the  priory  of  Newstead  within  the 
forest  of  Shirwode,  of  the  order  of  St.  Augustine,  to  'I'liomas  Gounthorpe, 
canon  of  the  house,  whose  election  as  prior  G.  archbishop  of  York  has 
confirmed  and  whosfj  fealty  the  king  has  taken. 

Writ  de  intendendo  in  pursuance  to  the  tenants. 

Licence  for  the  sul)-pri()r  and  canons  of  the  priory  of  Newstead  in 
Shirwode  to  elect  a  prior  in  the  place  of  John  Dorhara,  deceased. 

Appointment,  until  18  May  next,  of  Richard  Exton  to  purvey  beeves, 
muttons,  salt  and  fresh-water  fish  and  other  necessaries  for  the  office  of 
buyer  of  the  household  and  cjirriage  for  the  .same. 

By  bill  of  the  treasurer  of  the  household. 

The  like  of  Henry  Forth. 

O  2 


36  CALENDAR  OF  PATENT  ROLLS. 


1467. 

Aug.  16. 
Westminster. 


Oct.  20. 
Westminster. 


Oct.  23. 
M'estniinster. 


Oct.  25. 
Westminster. 

Oct.  26. 

Westminster. 


Membrane  18. 

Grant  for  life  to  the  king's  secretary  Master  William  Hatclyff  of  the 
manor  of  Friteswell,  co.  Oxford,  and  advowsons  of  churches,  knights'  fees, 
franchises,  liberties  and  priviksges  with  the  members  and  parcels  pertaining 
to  the  said  manor,  and  all  other  lands  in  Friteswell  aforesaid,  of  Henry 
Beauford,  late  duke  of  Somerset,  and  James  Ormonde,  late  earl  of  Wiltshire, 
in  the  king's  hands  by  reason  of  their  forfeiture  and  by  virtue  of  the  act 
in  Parliament  at  Westminster,  4  November,  1  Edvi^ard  IV.  and  a  plot  with 
two  tenements  annexed  in  the  parish  of  St.  Michael,  Wodestrete,  London, 
of  William,  late  viscount  Beaumont,  and  the  manor  of  Breutbradfeld, 
CO.  Suffolk,  alias  the  manor  of  Roos  in  Breutbradfeld  and  all  lands  in 
Brandbradfeld  aforesaid,  Cokefeld,  Great  Welwetham  and  Monkes  Bradfeld, 
CO.  Suffolk,  of  Thomas  Roos,  knight,  late  lord  of  Roos,  in  the  king's 
hands  by  reason  of  their  forfeiture  and  by  virtue  of  tlie  act  aforesaid,  with 
all  issues  from  Easter  last,  to  hold  by  the  services  of  as  many  knights'  fees 
and  as  many  other  rents  and  services  as  they  were  held  by  before  4  March, 
I  Edward  IV.;  and  an  annuity  of  26/.  13s.  4rf.  from  Easter  last  at  the 
receipt  of  the  Exchequer.  By  p.s. 

Grant  to  Thomas,  archbishop  of  Canterbury,  George,  archbishop  of 
York,  Richard,  carl  of  Warwick  and  Salisbury,  William  Bourghchier, 
knight,  lord  Filzvvareyu,  Thomas  Barnes  and  Richard  Viell  of  the  manors 
of  Anry,  Lytelham  with  the  advowson  of  the  church  of  Lytelham,  Vera 
Worthy,  Petermerlon,  Mylton  Damerell,  Cokebury  and  Yendestowe  with 
the  advowson  of  the  church  of  Yendestowe,  and  the  advowson  of  the 
church  of  Southtauton,  co.  Devon,  the  manor  of  Estrannemere,  co.  Somerset, 
and  all  messuages,  lands,  rent^-,  reversions  and  services  in  Hankeford,  Hals, 
Uppecote,  Brendesworthy,  Wayte,  Sod  worthy,  Aysserygge,  Bydeford, 
Torryton,  Beme,  Tadyporte,  Hygham,  Rolston,  Bevyshyll,  Passhcote, 
Possebury,  Raissheley,  Kenton,  Danyshampton,  Langtre,  lUeshershe,  Horton, 
Buckyssb,  Huysliille,  Holdwill,  Shofterigge,  Duardyng,  Knoll,  Kelenyke, 
Estbury  and  Quarum,  with  all  other  messuages,  lands,  rents,  reversions  and 
services  in  the  counties  of  Devon,  Cornwall,  Somerset  and  Berks,  with 
advowsons,  knights'  fees,  courts  leet,  views  of  frank-pledge,  warrens, 
franchises,  jurisdictions,  liberties  and  other  appurtenances,  late  of  Thomas 
Ormond  alias  Botiller,  knight,  and  Anne  his  wife,  daughter  of  Anne,  late 
duchess  of  Exeter,  sister  of  Thomas  Mouutague,  knight,  sometime  earl  of 
Salisbury,  father  of  Alice,  late  conntess  of  Salisbury,  as  in  the  right  of  the 
said  Anne,  and  in  the  king's  hands  by  reason  of  an  act  in  Parliament  at 
Westminster,  4  November,  1  Edward  IV.  against  the  said  Thomas  Ormond, 
to  hold  for  the  life  of  the  latter  by  the  services  of  as  many  knights'  fees  and 
as  many  other  rents  and  services  as  they  were  held  by  before  4  March, 
1  Edward  IV. ;  and  pardon  to  them  of  all  issues  of  the  same  from  that  date. 

By  p.s. 

Pardon  to  John  Calowe  of  Sytelyng,  co.  Dorset,  '  gentilman,'  of  his 
outlawry  in  the  county  of  Hertford  for  not  appearing  before  the  king  to 
satisfy  him  of  his  ransom  for  not  having  Richard  Bolton,  late  of  London, 
'yoman,'  alias  Richard  Saunder  late  of  Whitelakyntou,  co.  Somerset, 
'  yoman,' who  was  handed  over  to  him  in  bail,  before  the  late  king  at  a 
certain  day  to  answer  for  divers  felonies  and  trespasses  ;  he  having  sur- 
rendered to  the  Marshalsea  prison,  as  John  Markeham,  knight,  chief  justice 
of  the  King's  Bench,  has  certified. 

General  pardon  to  Andrew  Grantham,  chaplain,  one  of  the  vicars  in  the 
cathedral  church  of  Wells,  co.  Somerset.  By  p.s. 

Grant,  during  pleasure,  to  William  Bertram  of  the  office  of  troner  of  tin 
and  lead  within    the    counties   of   Levon  and  Cornwall,  receiving  the 


7  EDWARD  IV.— Part  II. 


37 


1467.  Membrane  18 — cont. 

accustomed  fees  at  (he  hands  of  the  receiver  general  of  the  duchy  of 
Cornwall.  By  bill  of  the  treasurer. 

Oct.  26.  Grant  for  life  to  the  king's  .servant  Walter  Aumenere  of  the  o6Bce  of  one 
Westminster,  of  the  king's  Serjeants  at  arms,  to  which  he  was  appointed  on  Michaelmas, 
6  Edward  IV.  and  which  he  has  exercised  since  that  date  without  letters 
patent  or  fee,  and  \2d.  daily  from  that  date  from  the  issues  of  the  counties 
of  Norfolk  and  Suffolk,  and  a  livery  of  the  suit  of  other  Serjeants  at  arms 
yearly  at  Christmas  at  the  great  wardrobe.  By  p.s. 

Oo(.  27.       Exemption  for  life  of  Edmund  Rede,  knight,  from  being  put  on  assize.s, 
Westminster,  juries,  recognisances,  attaints  or  inquisitions,  and  from  being  made  justice, 
baililf,  escheator,  coroner,  sheriff,  constable,  provost,  collector,  taxer  or 
controller  of  tenth.'^,  fifteenths,  taxes  or  subsidies,  or  officer,  commi.ssiouer  or 
minister  of  the  king.  By  p.s. 

Oct.  27.  Grant  for  life  to  the  said  Edmund  of  a  tun  of  wine  yearly  in  the  port  of 
Westminster.  London  at  the  hands  of  the  king's  chief  butler  or  his  lieutenant  there. 

By  p.s. 

Oct.  6.  Licence,  for  10  marks  paid  in  the  hanaper,  for  Joan  late  the  wife  of 
Westminster.  Richard  Yard,  esquire,  to  grant  the  manor  of  Tengweke  alias  Highweke  with 
a  third  part  of  the  hundred  of  Tengbrigge  belonging  to  it,  a  messuage,  lour 
mills,  a  carucate  of  land  and  10  acres  of  meadow  and  8/.  of  rent  in  Tengweke 
alias  Highweke,  Neweton  Busshell  and  Bradley,  co.  Devon,  held  in  chief, 
to  Gilbert  Yard,  her  son,  and  his  heirs  and  a.ssigns. 


Membrane  17. 


July  8. 

Westminster. 


Oct.  8. 
Westminster. 


Oct.  16. 

Westminster. 


Oct.  20. 
Wcstiiiiustcr. 


Oct.  27. 

Westminster. 


Grant  for  life  to  William  Queneson  of  the  profit  of  wines  called  '  issak  ' 
sold  in  the  taverns  of  the  city  of  Bordeaux  and  the  profits  of  the  market 
of  the  same  city,  in  the  same  manner  as  -lohn  Pikbourn  or  anyone  else  had 
them.  By  p.s. 

Grant  for  life  to  the  king's  servitor  Thomas  Holme,  Norrey  king  of 
arms  of  the  northern  realm  of  England,  of  2u/.  yearly  for  the  fees  of  his 
office  from  the  issues  of  the  county  of  Kent  from  Easter,  4  Edward  IV. 
with  a  livery  such  as  any  other  king  of  arms  or  herald  had  in  the  time  of 
Edward  III.  yearly  at  the  great  wardrobe.  By  p.s. 

Mandate  in  pursuance  to  the  sheriff  of  Kent. 

Pardon  to  John  Thurlowe  the  younger  of  Thrypplowc  or  Triplowe, 
CO.  Cunibridge,  'yoman,'  of  his  outlawries  in  the  hunting  of  London 
for  not  appearing  before  the  king  to  satisfy  him  of  his  ransoms  for 
denying  a  wriling  obligatory  of  a  debt  of  12/.  17*.  made  to  William 
Nieolasson  of  which  he  was  convicted  by  his  own  confession  and  for 
<Ienying  another  writing  obligatory  of  a  debt  of  4/.  made  to  William 
Kvyngton,  Edmund  Kenslon  and  Thomas  Kenston  of  which  he  was 
convicted  by  :i  jury,  he  having  surrendered  to  the  Marshalsea  prison,  as 
John  Markhani,  knight,  chief  justice  of  the  King's  Bench,  has  certified. 

Grant  to  the  king's  servant  William  Nctilton  that  he  shall  be  one  of  the 
yeomen  of  the  crown,  and  grant  to  him,  during  good  behaviour,  of  6(1. 
daily  for  his  fee  from  the  issues  of  the  counties  of  Bedford  and  Buckingham 
from  Michaelmas  last,  from  which  day  he  has  had  the  occupation  of 
yeoman  of  the  crown.  P-^- 

Pardon  to  Roger  Rudi)y  of  Ciiichcster,  co.  .Sussex,  '  gentilman,' of  his 
outlawry  in  the  county  of  Middlesex  for  not  appearing  before  the  justices 
of  the  Bench  to  .satisfy  the  king  of  his  ransom  for  not  having  William 
Lu(l(^  of  Cliichester  l)efore  the  said  justices  at  a  certain  day  to  answer 


38 


CALENDAE  OF  PATENT  ROLLS. 


1467. 


Oct.  22. 
^V'estniinstcr. 


Oct.  27. 
Westminster. 


Oct.  30. 

Westminster. 


July  11. 
Westminster. 

Nov.  3. 
Westminster. 


Nov.  10. 
Westminster. 

Nov.  4. 
Westminster. 


Membrane  17 — cont. 
William  Here  touching  a  trespass,  as  he  made  mainprise  to  do,  he  having 
surrendered  to  the  Flete  prison  and  satisfied  the  king  of  his  ransom,  as 
Robert  Danby,  chief  justice  of  the  Bench,  has  certified. 

Grant  for  life  to  Thomas  Gray,  knight,  that  he  be  one  of  the  poor 
knights  of  the  college  of  the  free  chapel  of  St.  George  within  the  castle  of 
Windcsor,  receiving  wages  and  vesture  at  the  hands  of  the  warden  of  the 
college,  w  th  a  habitation  within  the  castle  and  all  other  things  that  any  of 
the  poor  knights  had.  By  p.s. 

Pardon  to  Richard  Lane  of  Shirborne,  co.  Dorset,  '  yoman,'  of  his 
outlawry  in  the  county  of  Dorset  for  not  appearing  before  John  Prysot  and 
his  fellows,  justices  of  the  Bench  of  the  late  king,  to  satisfy  John  Hobbes  of 
a  debt  of  40s.  which  he  recovered  against  him,  and  6.5.  8rf.  damages,  the 
said  Richard  having  surrendered  to  the  Flete  prison  and  the  said  John 
having  appeared  before  the  justices  of  the  Bench  by  John  Bevyn  his 
attorney  and  acknowledged  himself  satisfied,  as  Robert  Danby,  chief  justice 
of  the  Bench,  has  certified. 

Grant,  during  good  behaviour,  to  Nicholas  Slathum  of  the  office  of 
second  baron  of  the  Exchequer  immediately  after  John  Clerk,  who  now 
has  the  office,  shall  have  died  or  surrendered  it  or  whenever  it  shall  become 
vacant,  receiving  the  accustomed  fees.  By  p.s. 

General  pardon  to  John  Kelk  alias  Kelque,  citizen  and  '  goldesmyth  '  of 
London.  By  p.s. 

Pardon  to  Richard  Safrey  late  of  Suthertyng,  co.  Sussex,  '  husbondman,' 
of  his  outlawry  in  London  for  not  appearing  before  John  Prysot  and  his 
fellows,  justices  of  the  Bench  of  the  late  king,  to  satisfy  John  Godyng, 
citizen  and  grocer  of  London,  of  40^  which  he  recovered  against  him,  and 
9/.  damages,  the  said  Richard  having  surrendered  to  the  Flete  prison,  and 
the  said  John  having  appeared  before  the  justices  of  the  Bench  by  Robert 
Vaus  his  attorney  and  acknowledged  himself  satisfied,  as  Robert  Danby, 
knight,  chief  justice  of  the  Bench,  has  certified. 

General  pardon  to  Henry  Ottwey  late  of  Bedyngton,  co.  Surrey,  'yoman,' 
of  all  offences  committed  by  him  before  I  June  last.  By  p.s. 

Appointment,  during  pleasure,  of  Richard  Pygot  as  one  of  the  king's 
Serjeants  at  law,  receiving  the  accustomed  fees. 


3IE3TBRANE  16. 

Aug.  28.  Grant  to  the  king's  uncle  Henry,  earl  of  Essex,  and  his  wife  Isabel,  the 
Vestrainstcr.  king's  aunt,  and  the  heirs  of  their  bodies  of  the  lordship  and  manor  of 
Chyngford  and  all  lands,  rents,  reversions  and  services  in  Chyngford,  co. 
Essex,  of  Thomas,  late  lord  Roos,  in  the  king's  hands  by  reason 
of  his  forfeiture  and  by  virtue  of  an  act  in  Parliament  at  Westminster, 
4  November,  1  Edward  IV.  the  lordship  and  manor  of  Aketon  or  Acton 
and  all  lands,  rents,  reversions  and  services  in  Aketon  alias  Acton,  co. 
Sutf'olk,  the  manor  called  '  Silvestrcs  Halle*  in  Sayntmaryburys  with  the  mills 
there  and  all  lands,  rents,  reversions  and  services  in  Sayntmaryburys,  in  the 
counties  of  Suffolk  and  Essex,  and  the  lordship,  manor  and  town  of  Ailesbury 
and  all  lands,  rents,  reversions  and  services  in  Ailesbury  and  Beerton,  co. 
Bnckinghatn,  of  James,  late  ear)  of  Wiltshire,  in  the  king's  hands  by 
reason  of  his  forfeiture  and  by  virtue  of  the  act  aforesaid,  and  the  manor 
of  Woddesdon  and  all  lands,  rents,  reversions  and  services  in  Woddesdon, 
CO.  Buckingham,  of  Thomas,  late  earl  of  Devon,  and  in  the  king's  hands 
by  reason  oi"  his  forfeiture  and  by  virtue  of  the  act  aforesaid,  to  hold 
with  knights'  fees,  advowsons,  courts  leer,  viev/s  of  frank-pledge,  fairs. 


7  EDWARD  IV.— Part  II. 


39 


1467. 


Aug.  28. 

Westminster. 


Aug.  24. 
Westminster. 


Sept.  3. 
Westminster. 


Aug.  16. 

Westminster. 


Membrmie  16 — cont. 

markets,  libertios,  franchises,  warrens,  profits  and  all  commodities  by  the 
services  of  as  many  knights'  fees  and  as  many  other  rents  and  services  as 
they  were  held  by  before  4  March,  1  Edward  IV.  and  all  issues  from 
Easter  last.  By  p.s. 

Grant  to  William  Carent,  esquire,  John  Carent  the  elder,  esquire,  and 
John  Carent  the  younger,  esquire,  in  lieu  of  a  like  grant  to  them  by  letters 
patent  dated  19  July  last,  surrendered  because  invalid,  of  the  custody 
during  minority  of  William  son  and  heir  of  John  FiloU,  tenant  in  chief, 
and  ail  lands  late  of  the  said  John  with  the  marriage  of  the  heir  without 
disparagement  with  knights'  fees  pertaining  to  the  said  lands,  and  .«o  from 
heir  to  heir  during  minority,  they  finding  a  competent  sustenance  for  the 
heir  and  supporting  all  charges.  By  bill  of  the  treasurer. 

Grant  to  the  king's  sister  Margaret,  in  lieu  of  a  like  grant  to  her  by 
letters  patent  dated  30  March,  5  Edward  IV.  surrendered,  of  an  annuity 
of  400/.  from  Michaelmas  last  at  the  receipt  of  the  E.Kchequer  in  ready 
money  or  from  the  first  moneys  arising  from  the  king's  i>roffers  or  other 
debts.  By  p.s. 

Mandate  to  the  escht-ator  in  the  county  of  Leicester  for  the  restitution  of 
the  temporalities  of  the  abbey  of  Oselveston,  of  the  order  of  St.  Augustine, 
to  Robert  Kirkby,  canon  of  the  priory  of  Kirkby,  of  the  same  order  and  in 
the  same  diocese,  whose  election  as  abbot  J.  bishop  of  Lincoln  has 
confirmed  and  whose  fealty  the  king  has  ordered  to  be  taken  by  the  abbot 
of  St  .  Mary  de  Pre  by  Leicester. 

The  like  to  the  escheators  in  the  following  counties : — 
Lincoln. 
Rutland. 

Writ  de  intendendo  in  pursuance  to  the  tenants. 

Grant  to  the  king's  secretary  Master  William  Ilatteclifi'e  and  the  heirs 
male  of  his  body  of  the  manor  or  lordship  of  Edyngworfh  in  le  Merssh 
called  '  Brentmerssho,'  with  all  lands  in  Frembourgh  and  Welles  and  Dalcofc, 
CO.  Somerset,  and  advowsons,  knights'  fees,  franchi.ses,  liberties  ancl 
privileges  pertaining  to  the  said  manor  with  its  menibcis  and  parcels, 
late  of  John  'Boteler  of  Franburgh,  in  the  king's  hands  by  reason 
of  his  forfeiture  and  by  virtue  of  an  act  in  Parliament  at  Westminster, 
4  November,  1  Edward  IV.  with  all  issues  from  Easter  last,  to  hold  by  the 
services  of  as  many  knights'  fees  and  as  many  other  rents  and  services  as 
they  were  held  by  before  4  March,  1  l^d\vard  IV.  for  20*.  4d.  to  be  paid 
for  fine  or  fee  of  the  great  seal.  By  p.s. 


Membrane  15. 

July  17.        Grant  to  Lionel  Wideville,  clerk,  brother  of  the  queen,  of  all  issues  of 
Windsor.     the  archdeaconry  of  Norwich  belon^inj^  to  the  king  by  reason  of  the  attaint 
of  John  Moreton,  archdeacon  of  Norwich,  bv  authority  of  Parliament  at 
Westminster,  4  November,  1  Edward  IV.  and  the  consequent  forfeiture  of 
his  possessions.  l^y  P-s- 

July  20.  Pardon  to  the  king's  servant  John  Waliord,  yeoman  of  the  king's 
Westminster,  chamber,  who  has  the  custody  of  the  king's  gaol  of  ilchestrc,  co.  Somerset, 
and  who  was  lately  on  the  king's  service  in  the  north  with  the  lord  of 
Hastynges,  the  king's  chamberlain,  of  the  escape  of  sixteen  prisoners 
commit  led  to  the  gaol  on  suspicion  of  felony,  viz.  John  Lloyd  alias  Yevan, 
Willi.nn  Mylwarde  alias  Bradley,  Tiiomas  Preste,  '  tynker,'  John  Bole, 
'laborer,'  Robert  Coriser,  John  Dobbe,  '  taillour,'  John  Baker,  Richard 
Wcrkeman,  GrifFuthe  ap  Rees,  Richard  GcU'rey,  William  Cascombe,  John 


40 


24(37  Membrane  15 — cont. 

Davy,  John  iip  Thomas,  Peter  Furneys  alias  Towker,  Howell  up  Jevan 
A'azhan  and  liicliard  Parke.  By  p.s. 

July  15.  Grant  to  Thomas  Gray,  clerk,  of  the  custody  of  the  king's  free  chapel  oi' 
Westminster.  St.  Mary,  Wemsteile,  co.  Hertford,  void  ])y  the  demi.se  of  John  Crecy. 

By  p.s. 

July  23.        Appointment,  until  23  January  next,  of  David   Fisshcr   to  purvey 
Westminster,  pheasants,  partridges  and  other  fowls  for  the  expenses  of  the  household, 
and  thread  for  nets  for  their  capture,  and  carriage  for  them. 

By  bill  of  the  treasurer  of  the  household. 

July  25.        Grant  for  life  io  the  king's  servant  John  Feriby  of  all  lands,  rents  and 
Westminster,  services  of  Thomas,  late  lord  Roos,  in  the  parish  of  Coxhill,  co.  Lincoln, 
not  exceeding  the  value  of  10/.  yearly,  forfeited  to  the  crown  because  of  his 
being  against  the  king  in  the  battles  at  Shirburne,  co.  York,  and  elsewhere. 

Byp  s. 

July  23.  Grant  for  life  from  Easter  last  to  Edmund  Hastyng,  knight,  of  the 
Westminster,  manor  and  town  of  Gilling  in  Ridall,  co.  York,  of  which  Humphrey  Nevill, 
late  of  Brauncepath  in  the  bishopric  of  Durham,  esquire,  was  seised  on 
4  May,  1  Edward  IV.  in  his  demesne  as  of  fee  and  continued  his  possession 
until  4  November,  1  Edward  IV.  when  he  was  attainted  of  high  treason 
by  authority  of  Parliament  at  Westminster  and  the  above  came  into  the 
king's  hands,  and  all  issues  from  the  said  4  May.  Hy  p.s. 

July  23.  Grant  to  John  Hodelston,  knight,  and  the  heirs  male  of  his  body  of 
Westmiiisttr.  all  lands,  rents,  services   and    reversions  in  Skelton    and  Lamunby,  co. 

Cumberland,  of  John,  late  lord  Clifford,  son  and  heir  of  Thomas,  late 
lord  Clifford,  and  in  Kirkby,  Douerdale  and  Wrightyngton,  co.  Lancaster, 
late  of  Richard  Kirkeby,  esquire,  in  the  king's  hands  by  reason  of  an  act 
in  Pailiiiment  at  Westminster,  4  November,  1  Edward  IV.  to  hold  with 
knights'  fees  and  advowsons  by  the  services  of  as  many  knights'  fees  and 
as  many  other  rents  and  services  as  they  were  held  by  before  4  March, 
1  Edward  IV.,  and  all  issues  from  Easter  last.  By  p.s. 

July  25.        Grant  for  life  to  Thomas  Chambre  of  the  office  of  one  of  the  king's 
Westminster.  Serjeants  at  arms,  with  wages  of  \2d.  daily  from  Easter  last  from  the 
issues  of  the  counties  of  Bedford  and  Buckingham,  and  a  livery  of  the 
suit  of  esquires  of  the  household  yearly  at  Christmas  at  the  great  wardrobe. 

By  p.s. 


Membrane  14. 

July  13.  Grant  to  Richard  Quatremayns,  esquire,  John  Leynton,  William  Hampton, 
Westminster.  John  Benet,  and  Richard  Fowlere  and  their  heirs  and  assigns  of  the 
manors  of  Wilbram,  co.  Cambridge,  and  Halton,  co.  Oxford,  and  all  lands, 
rents,  reversions,  and  services  in  Wilbram  and  Halton,  of  William  late 
viscount  Beaumont,  in  the  king's  hands  by  reason  of  his  forfeiture 
and  by  virtue  of  an  act  of  forfeiture  in  Parliament  at  Westminster,  4  No- 
vember, 1  Edward  IV.  with  knights'  fees,  advowsons,  courts  leet,  views 
of  frank-pledge,  waifs,  strays,  wards,  marriages,  escheats,  and  all  other 
profits  and  all  issues  from  Easter  last,  to  hold  for  the  use  of  the  said 
Richard  Quatremayns  by  such  rents  and  services  as  they  were  held 
by  before  4  March,  1  Edward  IV.  in  exchange  for  the  manor  of 
Hamyldon,  co.  Rutland,  which  the  latter  and  George,  archbishop  of  York, 
and  the  said  John,  William,  John  and  Richard,  his  co-feoffees,  granted  to 
the  king ;  with  provision  that  if  the  said  manors  or  any  parcel  of  them  be 
taken  back  into  the  king's  hands  or  restored  to  the  said  viscount  they  shall 
be  recompensed  with  other  lauds  to  the  said  yearly  value.  Grant  also  to 
them  of  the  manor  of  Wykemere,  co.  Norfolk,  late  of  the  said  viscount. 


7  EDWARD  IV.— Part  II. 


41 


1407.  Membrane  14 — cont. 

in  the  king's  hands  as  above,  to  hold  from  Easter  last  for  the  life  of  the 
said  Richard  Quatrcmayns.  By  p.s. 

July  7.  General  pardon  to  John  Hale  late  of  Fuoggesasshe,  co.  Hei  eford, 
Westminster.  '  husbondeman,' rtZi'as  of  Kalverhili,  CO.  Hereford.  By  p.s. 

Aug.  28.  Grant  for  life  to  the  king's  knight  William  Herbert,  lord  Herbert,  whom 
Westminster,  the  king  has  raised  to  (he  estate  of  baron,  of  the  offices  of  chief  justice  of 
North  Wales  and  constable  of  the  kiug'.s  castle  of  Hardlegh,  co.  Merioneth, 
with  fdll  pow(^r  of  appointing  and  removing  all  stewards,  sheriffs,  cscheators, 
coroners,  bailiffs,  forestci's,  reeves,  riugilds  and  other  officers  and  ministers 
of  the  king  in  North  Wales  at  their  accustomed  wages,  receiving  for  the 
office  of  justice  such  fees  as  John,  earl  of  Worcester,  lately  had  and  for 
the  office  of  constable  20/.  13s.  4^d.  yearly  for  himself  and  4e?.  daily  for 
each  of  24  soldiers  under  him  for  the  safe  custody  of  the  castle,  from  the 
issues  of  North  Wales,  and  all  other  profits  pertaining  to  the  said  office  of 
constable.  By  p.s. 

Membrane  13. 

Nov.  18.        Inspeximns  and  confirmation  to  Thomas  Fletham,  clerk,  alderman  of 
Westminster,  the  guild  or  fraternity  of  St.  Mary  in  the  town  of  Baston,  of  letters  patent 
dated  22  November,  21   Henry  VI.   granting   to  the  aldermen  certain 
privileges.  For  13s.  4d.  paid  in  the  hanaper. 

Nov.  11.        General  pardon  to  Thomas  Chellescombe  of  Sele,  co.  Kent,  'gentilman,' 
Westminster,  alias  late  of  Sundrys.-^h,  co.  Kent,  of  all  offences  committed  by  liim  before 
24  October.  By  p.s. 

Nov.  18.        General  pardon  to  John  Barefoote  of  Boxgrave,  co.  Sussex,  '  bochier,'  of 
Westminster,  all  felonies  and  trespasses  committed  by  him  before  5  November  and  of 
his  outlawry  for  certain  felonies  and  trespas.ses  of  which  he  was  indicted 
by  subtle  collusion  and  great  malice,  for  which  he  was  committed  to  the 
custody  of  the  marshal  of  the  Marshalsea,  in  whose  custody  he  still  remains. 

By  p.s. 

Nov.  19.  Grant  for  life  to  Antony  Wydevyll,  lord  of  Scales  and  Nucellis,  brother 
Westminster,  of  the  kiiig'u  consort  Elizabeth,  queen  of  England,  in  lieu  of  a  like  grant 
to  the  king's  kinsman  John,  earl  of  Worcester,  by  letters  patent  dated 
28  August,  2  Edwaid  IV.  surrendered,  of  the  custody  of  the  king's  castle 
and  town  of  Porche.stre  and  forest  and  warren  tliere  and  the  supervision 
and  governance  of  the  king's  town  of  Portesinouthe  and  iiis  place  there, 
with  power  to  appoint  under  him  a  porter,  an  artillcr  and  a  watcliman 
within  the  castle,  receiving  12//.  daily  for  his  own  fee,  3//.  daily  for  the 
wages  of  the  porter  and  \^d.  daily  for  the  wages  of  a  groom  under  him  to 
keep  the  warren,  6d.  daily  tor  the  wages  of  the  artiller  and  3^/.  daily  for 
the  wages  of  the  watchman  and  the  accustomed  fees  for  the  supervision 
and  governance,  from  the  issues  of  the  said  castle,  forest  and  warren  and 
the  fee  farm  of  Portesmouthe,  so  far  as  their  extent  suffices,  and  the  residue 
from  the  issues  of  the  county  of  Southampton,  with  all  other  accustomed 
profits,  in  the  same  manner  as  John,  late  earl  of  Shrewsbury,  or  any  one 
else  had  the  same.  By  p.s. 

Nov.  25,  Grant  for  life  to  the  king's  servant  William  Besteuey  of  the  office  of 
Westminster,  one  of  the  king's  Serjeants  at  arms,  receiving  18/.  5s.  yearly,  viz.  10/.  from 
the  farm  of  the  king's  lands  of  Fitelton,  co.  Wilts,  5/.  from  the  farm  of 
the  manor  or  lands  of  Lithewode,  co.  Salop,  and  3/.  os.  from  the  issues  of 
the  king's  manor  of  Patrikesborue,  co.  Kent,  and  a  robe  of  the  suit  of  the 
king's  esquires  yearly  at  Christmas  at  the  great  wardrobe.  By  p.s. 

Vacated  so  far  as  concerns  the  18/.  5s.,  bevaitse  the  king  granted  the 
same  to  him  jrom  this  '2b  Nocembcr  b)/  other  letters  patent  dated 
\()  January  9  Edward  IV, 


42 


CALENDAR  OF  PATENT  ROLLS. 


li^QJ  Membranes  13 — cont. 

Nov.  25.       General  pardon  to  Richard  Hannes  of  Stretford  on  Avon,  co.  Warwick, 

Westminster.  '  yoman,'  alias  late  of  Oxonforde,  co.  Oxford,  '  scoler,'  alias  '  fysshemouger,' 
alias  '  wolbyer,'  of  all  offences  committed  by  him  before  4  October  last. 

By  p.s. 

Nov.  27.  General  pardon  to  Elias  Lauhargy  late  of  London,  '  gentilman,' a/m* 
Westminster.  Eliseus  Lanhargy  late  of  Estbedfount,  co.  Middlesex.  By  p.s. 


Membrane  12. 


Oct.  29. 
Westminster. 


Oct.  8. 
Westminster. 

Nov.  10. 

Westminster. 


Nov.  11. 

Westminster. 

Sept.  2. 

Dogmersfield. 

Nov.  16. 

Westminster, 

Nov.  16 

Westminster. 


Nov,  18. 

Westminster. 


Grant  in  frank  almoin  to  Master  Thomas  Rotheram,  king's  clerk,  keeper 
of  the  privy  seal,  provost  of  the  king's  college  of  Whyngham,  in  the  diocese 
of  Canterbury,  and  the  canons  of  the  same  of  a  messuage,  a  dovecote  with 
a  garden  annexed,  66  acres  and  one  rood  of  land  and  3  acres  and  3  roods  of 
meadow  in  Preston,  Asshe,  Staple  and  Whyngham,  co.  Kent,  with  a  salt-pit 
ajid  3  acres  of  pasture  in  Stourmouth,  co.  Kent,  late  of  William  Cokkowp, 
and  two  messuages  with  gardens  annexed  in  Ikham  with  a  toft  in  Lillebourno 
which  Michael  Potter  late  of  Ikham,  a  man  of  Flanders,  lately  acquired 
without  licence,  to  hold  from  Easter  last  to  pray  for  the  good  estate  of  the 
king  and  Elizabeth  his  consort  and  for  their  souls  after  death  and  the  souls 
of  the  king's  father  Richard,  late  duke  of  York,  and  his  brother  Edmund, 
late  earl  of  Rutland,  and  the  said  William  Cokkowe.  By  p.s. 

Ratification  of  the  estate  which  Master  Henry  Sutton  has  as  parson  or 
rector  of  the  parish  church  of  Corfecastell.  By  p.s. 

Grant  for  life  to  the  king's  servant  Richard  Paten,  marshal  of  the  king's 
trumpeters,  of  an  annuity  of  10  marks  from  the  barony  of  Brambarowe,  co. 
Sussex,  from  Michaelmas,  6  Edward  IV.  By  p.s. 

Mandate  in  pursuance  to  the  sheriff  of  Sussex  or  the  receiver,  farmers, 
bailiffs  or  other  occupiers  of  the  barony. 

General  pardon  to  .lohn  Broke,  parson  of  the  church  of  St.  Leonard, 
Fastoure  Lane,  London.  By  p.s. 

Presentation  of  Robert  Cokke,  chaplain,  to  the  parish  church  within  the 
lordship  of  Oye  in  the  parts  of  Picardy.  The  letters  are  directed  to  Th. 
archbishop  of  Canterbury. 

General  pardon  to  Henry  Johnson  Vanmelom,  alias  Henry  Vanmehun 
alias  Henry  Marcellis,  '  Decheman,'  of  all  offences  committed  by  him  before 
1  October  last.  By  p.s. 

Pardon  to  Laurence  Reynforth,  king's  knight,  late  sheriff  of  Essex  and 
Hertford,  of  all  offences,  trespasses,  concealments,  misprisions,  contempts 
and  escapes  of  felons  and  all  penalties,  forfeitures,  amercements,  debts  and 
accounts  due  from  him  to  the  king.  Bj  p.?. 

Grant  in  frank  almoin  to  Thomas  Wilmote,  vicar  of  the  church  of 
Asshettesford,  co.  Kent,  of  the  manor  and  town  of  Dounton  Weylate,  co. 
Essex,  with  the  advowson  of  the  church  of  Dounton,  the  manor  of  Preston 
and  Hoo,  co.  Sussex,  lately  pertaining  to  the  priory  of  Okeburn,  and  a 
yearly  peusion  of  100*.  which  the  prior  of  Lewes  is  bound  to  render  to  the 
king  from  an  impost  lately  due  to  the  abbey  of  Cluny,  to  hold  with  all 
appurtenances  quit  of  all  farms,  rents,  arrears,  tenths,  fifteenths  and  actions 
and  demands  from  4  March,  1  Edward  IV.  to  find  two  chaplains  aud  t^^■o 
secular  clerks  to  celebrate  divine  service  in  the  said  church  for  the  good 
estate  of  the  king  and  his  kinsman  George,  archbishop  of  York,  and  John 
Fogge,  knight,  and  Alice  his  wife  and  for  their  souls  after  death  and  the 
souls  of  Richard,  late  duke  of  York,  the  king's  father,  Edmund,  late  earl 
of  Rutland,  the  king's  brother,  and  Richard,  earl  of  Salisbury,  the  king's 
uncle,  and  Thomas  Kyi'yell,  knigb<-   Robert  Hoorne  and  Thomas  Colt, 


7  EDWARD  IV.— Part  U. 


43 


1467. 


Nov.  23. 
Westminster. 


Nov.  23. 
Westminster. 


Membrane  12 — cont, 
esquires,  and  all  others  of  the  county  of  Kent  killed  in  the  conflicts  at 
Northampton,  St.  Albans  and  Shirbourne  for  the  king's  right  and  the 
good  of  the  realm,  according  to  the  ordinances  of  the  said  John  Fogge. 

By  p.s. 

Grant  for  life  to  the  king's  servant  Edward  Hardgill  and  Elizabeth 
IMorysby  of  the  manor  of  Frytheby,  co.  Leicester,  which  Thomas  Palmer 
holds  for  a  term  of  years,  the  reversion  belonging  to  the  king,  and  all  lands, 
rents,  reversions  and  services  in  Fretheby  late  of  Thomas,  late  Lord  Roos, 
in  the  king's  hands  by  reason  of  his  forfeiture  and  by  virtue  of  an  act 
in  Parliament  at  Westminster,  4  November,  1  Edward  IV.  to  hold  with 
knights'  fees,  advow.sons,  courts  leet,  views  of  frank-pledge  and  all  profits 
from  Easter  last  hy  the  services  of  as  many  knights'  I'ees  and  as  many 
other  rents  and  services  as  they  were  held  by  before  4  March,  I  Edward  IV. 

By  p.s. 

Grant  for  life  to  the  king's  servant  William  Aleyn,  one  of  the  yeomen  of 
the  king's  chamber,  of  the  custody  of  the  king's  manor  of  Esthamstede  and 
the  new  park  there  within  the  forest  of  'tVyndesore,  co.  Berks,  receiving 
3d.  daily  from  the  fee  farm  of  the  town  of  New  Windsor,  with  a  grove 
called  Couworo  and  4*.  of  yearly  rent  pertaining  to  it  and  all  other 
accustomed  fees.  By  p.s. 

Vacated  by  surrender  and  cancelled,  because  the  king  granted  the 
custody  to  him  by  other  letters  patent  on  9  December,  8  Edv  ard  IV. 


Membrane  11. 

Oct.  31.  Whereas  the  sum  of  1,600/.  is  due  from  the  king  to  liis  kinsman  John, 
Westminster,  earl  of  Worcester,  as  appears  in  the  receipt  of  the  Exchc(juer,  of  which  sum 
the  latter  has  remitted  800/.,  and  the  king  appointed  the  said  earl  constable 
of  England  and  has  granted  to  him  400/.  for  regard,  the  king  hereby  grants 
that  he  or  his  executors  after  his  decease  may  receive  all  sums  of  money 
from  all  customs  and  subsidies  in  tiie  port  of  Bristol  until  he  be  satisfied  of 
the  .said  800/.  residue  and  the  said  400/.  amounting  together  to  1,200/.  and 
may  in  the  meantime  nominate  a  suitable  person  to  the  office  of  one  of  the 
customers  or  collectors.  By  p.s, 

Oct.  31.  Pardon  to  Joyce  late  the  wife  of  Thomas  Erdyngtou,  knight,  of  all 
Westminster,  grants,  alienations  and  perquisitions  of  land  without  licence. 

By  p.s.  and  for  20s.  paid  in  the  hanaper. 

Nov.  8.  General  pardon  to  William  Philip  late  of  London,  esquire,  of  all  ofifences 
Westminster,  committed  by  him  before  16  October  last.  By  p.s. 

Oct.  8.  Whereas  Thomasia  late  the  wife  of  John  Gra,  knight,  holds  for  life  o7 

Westminster,  acres  of  land  and  18/.  13*.  4rf.  of  rent  in  Saltfletby  and  Somercotes,  co. 

Lincoln,  of  the  grant  of  William  Waynflete,  bishop  of  Winchester,  William 
Darset,  clerk,  Hugh  Pakcnham,  esquire,  Richard  Chaundre,  esquire, 
deceased,  and  Simon  Godmanston,  clerk,  the  reversion  belonging  to  them 
and  the  heirs  of  the  bishop,  of  which  lands  and  rents  John  de  Multon  was 
seised  in  his  demesne  as  of  fee  and  used  to  render  10/.  yearly  to  the  alien 
abbot  and  convent  of  Langenneiii,  the  king  hereby  pardons  to  the  said 
Thomasia  and  the  said  bishop,  William,  Hugh  and  Simon  and  the  heirs  of 
the  bishop  the  said  10/.  yearly  and  !ill  arrears.  By  p.s. 

Nov.  8.         Grant  for  life  to  Tliomas  Bone  of  the  office  of  forester  within  the  king's 
Westminster,  forest  of  Inglewode  with  the  accustomed  fees,  in  the  same  manner  as  Juhn 
Alcok  or  Thomas  Garthc  had  it,  in  lieu  of  a  like  grant  to  the  said  .John 
Alcok  by  letters  patent  dated  21  November,  1  Edward  IV.  surrendered. 

By  p.s. 


44 


CALENDAR  OF  PATENT  ROLLS. 


14G7. 

Nov.  25. 
Westminster. 

Nov.  10. 
■Westminster. 


Nov.  12. 
W^estminster. 


Membrane  11 — cont. 

Appointment,  during  pleasure,  of  William  Monca  to  take  horses  for  tlio 
king's  consort  Elizabeth,  queen  of  England,  at  her  cost.  By  p.s. 

Pardon  to  Joan  Oswald  of  Alkertou,  co,  Gloucester,  'wjdowe,'  of  her 
waiver  in  the  county  of  Gloucester  for  not  appearing  before  Robert  Danby 
and  his  fellows,  justices  of  the  Bench,  to  satisfy  the  king  of  her  ransom  for 
a  trespass  committed  against  William  Pylmc,  she  having  surrendered  to  the 
Flete  prison  and  satisfied  the  king  and  the  s;iid  William,  as  appears  by 
certificate  of  Robert  Danby,  chief  justice  of  the  Bench. 

Pardon  to  James  Cheyun  of  Rompney,  co.  Kent,  '  gentilman,'  of  his 
outlawry  in  Loudon  for  not  appearing  before  the  king  to  satisfy  liim  of  his 
ransom  for  not  having  John  Chaumber,  suspected  of  felony,  before  the 
late  king  on  a  certain  day,  he  having  surrendered  to  the  Marshalsea  prison, 
as  John  Markhara,  knight,  chief  justice  of  the  King's  Bench,  has  certified. 


Membrane  10. 

Oct.  9.         Grant  for  life  to  the  king's  daughter  the  princess  Elizabeth  of  the  manor 
Westminster,  of  Great  Lynforde,  co.  Buckingham,  lately  belonging  to  James,  late  earl  of 
Wiltshire,  and  in  the  king's  hands  by  reason  of  an  act  in  Parliament  at 
Westminster,  4  November,  1  Edward  IV.  By  p.s. 

Oct.  14.       Grant  for  life  to  the  king's  servant  John  Crowland,  one  of  the  king's 
Westminster,  trumpeters,  of  10  marks  yearly  from  Michaelmas,  (>  Edward  IV.  from  the 
issues  of  the  county  of  Lincoln.  By  p.s. 

Mandate  in  pursuance  to  the  sheriff  of  liincoln. 

Oct.  14.  Like  grant  to  the  king's  servant  William  atte  How,  one  of  the  king's 
Westminster,  trumpeters.  By  p.s. 

Mandate  in  pursuance  to  the  sheriff  of  Lincoln. 

Oct.  14.  Like  grant  to  the  king's  servant  John  Panell,  one  of  the  king's 
Westminster,  trumpeters,  from  the  issues  of  the  county  of  York.  By  p.s. 

Mandate  in  pursuance  to  the  sheriff  of  York. 

Like  grant  to  John  Hache,  one  of  the  king's  trumpeters,  from  the  issues 
of  the  county  of  Devon.  By  p.s. 

Mandate  in  pursuance  to  the  sheriff  of  Dev'on. 

Like  grant  to  the  king's  servant  Richard  Hilles,  one  of  the  king's 
trumpeters,  from  the  issues  of  the  county  of  Y'ork.  By  p.s. 

Mandate  in  pursuance  to  the  sheriff  of  York. 

Like  grant  to  the  king's  servant  .John  Priour,  one  of  the  king's  trumpeters, 
from  the  issues  of  the  county  of  Lincoln.  By  p.s. 

Mandate  in  pursuance  to  the  sheriff  of  Lincoln. 

Like  grant  to  John  Hilles,  one  of  the  king's  trumpeters,  from  the  fee- 
farm  of  the  town  of  Bridport,  co.  Dorset,  and  the  increment  of  the  same. 

By  p.s. 

Mandate  in  pursuance  to  the  men  of  the  town. 

Sept.  20.       Grant  for  life  to  tlie  king's  servant  William  Eynsam,  one  of  the  king's 
Dogmerslield.  minstrels,  of  10  marks  yearly  from  Michaelmas  last  from  the  fee-farm  of 
the  hundreds  of  Keftesgatc,  Holford  and  Greston  with  the  fairs  and  markets 
in  the  town  of  Wynchecombe,  at  the  hands  of  the  abbot  and  convent  of 
Wynchecombe.  By  p.s. 

Mandate  in  pursuance  to  the  abbot  and  convent. 

Oct.  29.  General  pardon  to  Richard  Wynfeld  late  of  Anipuldore,  co.  Kent, 
Westminster,  'laborer,'  of  all  offences  committed  by  him  before  28  October,  By  p.s. 

Oct.  29.  Grant  for  life  to  John  Geneus,  chaplain,  that  he  be  one  of  the  chaplains 
Westminster,  of  the  king's  chantry  of  St.  Mary  within  the  manor  of  Wodestoke,  in  the 


7  EDWARD  JV.— rAKi  IJ. 


45 


1467. 


Oct.  8. 
Westminster. 

Oct.  5. 

DoEinersficld. 


Membrane  10 — cont. 
place  of  John  Austen,  deceased,  receiving  10  marks  yearly  lor  salary  from 
tlie  issues  of  the  manor  with  a  dwelling  in  the  south  part  of  the  manor  and 
ill!  other  accustomed  prohts. 

By  p.s. 

General  pardon  to  Thomas  Fyssber  of  Glastonbury,  co.  Somerset, '  yoman,' 
alias  '  courtholder  '  alias  '  clothemaker,'  and  John  Wise  of  Briggewater, 
CO.  Somerset,  '  marchaunt.'  By  p.s. 

'J1ic  like  to  Robert  Tukhill  the  elder  of  Hungurford,  co.  Berks,  '  mercer,' 
^///r«  Robert  Tu"huli, 'clothier,'  of  all  offences  committed  by  him  before 
1  October.  By  P  S- 


1468. 

Feb.  20. 
("oveiitrv. 


Feb.  15. 

Coventry. 

Fob.  18. 
Coventry. 


1467. 

Dec.  10. 
Windsor. 


1468. 

Feb.  13. 
Coventry. 


March  3. 
Westminster. 


Jan.  27. 
Westminster. 


Membrane  9. 

Grant  for  life  to  the  king's  servants  John  Shucborough  and  Nicholas 
Cleveiey  of  the  manor  called  '  Cornewales  Maner '  in  Ivor,  co.  Buckingham, 
late  of  Thomas  Cornewaile,  estjuire,  and  in  the  king's  hands  by  reason  of 
his  forfeiture  and  by  virtue  of  an  act  in  Parliament  at  Westminster, 
1  November,  1  Edward  IV.  to  hold  from  4  .March,  1  Edward  IV.  by  the 
services  of  as  many  knights'  fees  and  as  many  other  rents  and  services  as 
they  were  held  by  before  that  date.  By  p  s. 

General  pardon  to  Thomas  Birche  late  of  London,  'yoman,'  of  all 
offences  committed  by  him  before  14  February  and  all  consequent 
penalties  and  forfeitures. 

By  p.s. 

Grant  for  life  to  the  king's  kinsman  John,  carl  of  Worcester,  and  John, 
lord  of  Dudley,  of  the  office  of  constable  of  the  Tower  of  London  with  the 
accustomed  fees  and  profits,  in  lieu  of  a  like  grant  to  the  said  earl  by  letters 
patent  surrendered.  By  p.s. 

Grant  to  William  Par,  knight,  and  John  Par,  esquire,  his  brother,  and 
the  heirs  of  their  bodies  of  tlie  manor  of  Burnaldcshcde  and  the  castle  of  the 
same  and  forty  messuages,  .'iOO  acres  of  land,  200  acres  of  meadow,  100  acres 
of  wood  and  500  acres  of  pasture  in  Stirkelon<lket[tle],  co.  Westmoreland, 
with  knights'  fees,  advowsons,  liberties,  franchises,  views  of  frank-i)ledge, 
courls  le(7t  and  all  appurlenanccs,  lute  of  Henry  Belyngeham,  knight,  rebel, 
and  in  the  king's  iiauds  by  reason  of  an  act  in  Parliament  at  Westminster, 
4  November,  f  Edward  IV.  to  hold  by  the  services  of  as  many  knights' 
fees  and  as  many  other  rents  and  services  as  they  were  held  by  before 
4  March,  1  Edward  IV.  and  all  issues  of  the  same  from  that  date.     By  p.s. 

Confirmation  to  Robert  Houghton  during  the  minority  of  John  son  and 
heir  of  William,  late  lord  Zouche,  of  a  yearly  rent  of  1005,  from  the  lands 
within  the  lordshii)  of  Toteues,  co.  Devon,  which  William,  late  lord  Zouche 
and  Seymour,  granted  to  him  for  life  by  letters  patent  dated  St.  Andrew, 
33  Henry  VI.,  by  which  he  appointed  liini  constable  and  keeper  of  the 
castle  of  Toteues,  and  which  grant  the  said  William  the  son  confirmed. 

By  p.s. 

Grant  to  Thomas,  cardinal  priest  of  Rome,  archbishop  of  Canterbury, 
legate  of  the  apostolic  see,  of  all  goods  and  chattels  late  of  John  Norhani, 
rector  of  the  parish  church  of  Ludenham,  co.  Kent,  outlawed  for  felony,  and 
any  fines  pertaining  to  the  king  for  any  concealment  of  the  same.      By  p.s. 

Grant  to  the  king's  kinsman  Thomas  Uourghier,  knight,  and  the  heirs 
male  of  his  body  of  the  manors  of  Chilston,  Gary,  Luttcrford,  Steres,  VVrey 
alias  Wreyeombe  and  Asshebury,  co.  Devon,  and  all  messuages,  lands, 
rents  reversions  and  services  in  Shepowasshe,  Monke  Okehainpton, 
Beworthye,  Donneslond,  Chelston,  Gary,  Lutterford,  Steres,  Wrey  ahas 


46 


CALENDAR  OF  PATENT  ROLLS. 


Membrane  9 — cont. 

Wreycombe  and  Asshebury,  co.  Devon,  with  knights'  fees,  advowsons, 
wards,  marriages,  reliefs,  escheats,  liberties,  franchises,  fairs,  markets, 
parks,  warrens,  courts  leet,  views  of  frank-pledge,  chattels  of  felons  and 
fugitives  and  all  other  profits,  late  of  William  Cary,  knight,  and  in  the 
king's  hands  by  reason  of  his  forfeiture  and  an  act  in  Parliament  at 
Westminster,  29  April,  3  Edward  IV.  and  a  messuage  in  Watiyngstrete, 
London,  between  the  messuage  of  Thomas  Porthaleyn  on  the  west  and  a 
tenement  pertaining  to  a  chantry  of  St.  Mary,  Aldermary,  and  all  lands  in 
Felsted,  co.  Essex,  late  of  John  Penycok,  and  in  the  king's  hands  by  reason 
of  an  act  of  forfeiture  in  Parliament  at  Westminster,  4  November, 
1  Edward  IV.  to  hold  from  Easter  last  by  the  accustomed  rents  and 
services,  and  the  reversion  of  the  manor  of  Cokington,  co.  Devon,  and  all 
messuages  and  lands  in  Cokington  which  Cristina,  late  the  wife  of  Pliilip 
Cary  father  of  the  said  William,  holds  in  dower  or  otherwise  for  life, 
belonging  to  the  king  as  above,  with  knights'  fees  etc.  as  above.  And  grant 
to  him  within  the  said  manors  and  other  premisses  of  wreck  of  sea, 
chattels  called  '  weiff '  and  '  straiff '  and  treasure  trove.  By  p.s. 


Membrane  8. 

Jan.  2.  Grant  for  life  to  the  king's  esquire  Thomas  Radclyff  of  the  manor  of 
Dogmersfield.  Bollyng  with  its  members  and  appurtenances  and  all  lands,  rents,  reversions 
and  services  belonging  to  it,  two  messuages,  30  acres  of  land,  4  acres  of 
meadow,  2  acres  of  wood  and  20s.  of  rent  in  Clayton,  a  messuage,  4  acres  of 
land  and  an  'acre  of  meadow,  in  Horton,  three  messuages,  40  acres  of  land 
and  4  acres  of  meadow,  in  Bradford  and  two  messuages,  20  acres  of  laud, 
4  acres  of  meadow  and  40  acres  of  pasture  and  a  moiety  of  a  messuage, 
40  acres  of  land,  8  acres  of  meadow,  200  acres  of  pasture,  10  acres  of  wood, 
and  10s.  of  rent,  in  Heynewortli,  co.  York,  late  of  Robert  Bollyng  late  of 
Boiling,  gentleman,  and  in  the  king's  hands  by  his  forfeiture  for  high 
treason  by  force  of  an  act  in  Parliament  at  Westminster,  4  November, 
1  Edward  IV.  not  exceeding  the  value  of  1 8/.  yearly,  to  hold  with  knights' 
fees  from  the  said  4  November  by  the  rents  and  services  of  as  many 
knights'  fees  and  as  many  other  rents  and  services  as  they  were  held  by 
before  that  date,  and  all  issues  from  the  manor  of  Thornton,  co.  York,  from 
that  date  until  Easter  last.  By  p.s. 

1467. 

Nov.  29.  Foundation  of  a  chantry  of  two  chaplains  to  celebrate  divine  service  in 
W^estiuinster.  the  chapel  of  St.  Mary  of  Berkyng,  situated  by  the  parish  church  of  Berkyng 
within  the  walls  of  the  city  of  London  near  the  Tower  of  London,  for  the 
good  estate  of  the  king  and  his  consort  Elizabeth,  queen  of  England,  and 
for  their  souls  after  death  and  the  souls  of  the  king's  father  and  the  king's 
brother  Edmund,  late  earl  of  Rutland,  and  appointment  of  Edmund  Bony- 
faunt  and  Nicholas  Rawlet  as  chaplains  of  the  chnntry,  which  shall  b(! 
called  the  royal  chantry  of  St..  Mary,  Berkyng.  Grant  that  the  chaplains 
may  acquire  lands,  rents,  services  and  other  possessions  for  their  sustenance 
without  licence.  Grant  to  them  in  frank  almoin  of  the  priory  or  manor  of 
Totyngbeke,  co.  Surrey,  paixel  of  the  alien  priory  of  Okeborne,  with  all 
lands,  rents,  services,  meadows,  pastures,  woods,  waters,  fisheries,  courts 
leet,  views  of  frank-pledge,  liberties,  franchises,  free  customs  and  emolu  • 
ments,  to  hold  from  Easter  last.  And  grant  to  them  that  they  shall  have 
return  of  writs  and  executions  of  the  same  within  the  said  priory  or  manor 
and  its  members  and  shall  hold  it  and  all  their  other  possessions  quit  of  any 
tenth,  fifteenth  or  other  subsidy  granted  by  the  clergy  of  the  realm  or 
imposed  by  the  pope.  By  p.s. 


7  EDWARD  IV.— Part  II. 


47 


Membrane  8 — cont. 

Dec  10  Giant,  for  1,000  marks  paid  to  the  king,  to  the  king's  uncle  Edward 
Windsor.  Neville,  knight,  and  bis  executors  and  assigns  of  the  custody  of  all  castles, 
lordsliiijs,  manors,  lands,  rents,  reversions,  services  and  other  possessions 
of  Edward  Broke,  knight,  lord  of  Cobhani,  deceased,  during  the 
minority  of  .lolin,  his  son  and  heir,  with  the  custody  and  marriage  of  the 
heir  without  disparagement,  and  so  from  lieir  to  heir,  finding  a  coniijetent 
sustenance  for  the  heir  and  supporting  ali  charges.  By  p.s. 


Aug.  (). 

Westminster. 


Aug.  18. 
Westiniusler 


Aug.  24. 

Westiuinstcr, 


Aug.  28. 

Westininstev 


Mehdraxe  7. 

Grant  to  the  king's  kinsman  Humphrey  Bourgchier,  knight,  lord  Crom- 
well, and  the  heirs  male  of  his  body  of  the  manor  or  lordship  of  Hesell 
with  '  ie  ferry  '  and  the  pas.sages  there  with  courts,  rents  and  services  of  free 
tenants  and  bondmen  in  the  county  of  the  town  of  Kyngcston  on  Hull,  the 
manor  or  hamlet  of  Paddokthorpe  and  Ilornyngton  with  all  woods  and  lands 
belon^in.--  to  it  in  the  county  of  York,  or  the  county  of  the  city  of  York,  and 
all  landsf  rents,  services,  reversions  and  possessions  in  Hesell,  Paddokthorpe 
knd '  Hornyngtoii,  with  rents,  services,  knights'  fees,  advowsons,  wards, 
inarriao-es,  reliefs,  escheats,   chaces,  parks,  warrens,  forests,  woods,  fran- 
chises liberties,  forfeitures,  chattels  of  felons,  fugitives  and  outlaws,  moors, 
marshes  meadows,  pastures,  wreck  of  sea,  deodands,  reversions  and  all 
other  i)rofits,  late  of  William  Tailboys,  knight,  and  in  the  king's  hands  by 
reason  of  an  act  of  forfeiture  in  Parliament  at  Westminster,  4  November, 
1   Edward  IV.  and  the  manor  of  Penley  or  Penle  in    the  counties  of 
Buckin<'ham  and  Hertford,  and  all  land.^,  rents,  services,  reversions  and 
possessions  in  Penley  with  knights'  fees,  advowsons,  wards,  marriages, 
reliefs,  escheats,  parks,  warrens,  woods,  franchises,  liberties,  forteitures, 
chUteis  of  felons,  fiunlives  and  outlaws,  moors,  marshes,  meadows,  pastures 
and  other  profits,  late  of  Robert  Whytynghain,  knight,  and  in  the  king's 
hamls  by  reason  of  the  act  aforesaid,  to  hold  from  Kaster  last  by  the  services 
of  as  many  knights'  fees  and  as  many  other  rents  and  services  as  they  were, 
held  by  before" 4  March,  I  Edward  IV.;  and  the  reversion  of  the  manor 
and  lordship  of  Wragby,  co.  Lincoln,  and  thc^  manor  of  Orston  with  the 
soke  of  the  same,  co.  Nottingham,  and  all  lands,  rents,  services,  reversions 
and  possessions  in  Wragby  and  Orston  of  Thomas,  late  lord  of  Roos, 
and  in  the  kind's  hands  by  reason  of  the  act  aforesiiid,  which  the  kings 
kinsman  John,  "earl  of  Worcester,  and  Pliilippa  Ko<.s,  his  sister,  late  the 
wife  of  the  said  Thomas,  hold  for  her  life,  to  hold  from  the  death  of  th». 
said  Philippa  with   knights'  fees,  advowsons,   wards,  marriages,  reliefs, 
escheats,  courts  leet,  views  of  frank -i.ledgc,  parks,  warrens,  chaces,  fairs, 
markets,  waters,  lisheries,  liberties,  franchises  and  all  prohts  by  the  rems  aud 
services  aforesaid.  ^  P'^' 

P  irdon  to  Henry  Elvedeu  alias  Elvynden  late  of  Suthwerk,  co.  Surrey, 
.  '  .Tontilman  '  of  the  death  of  Robert  Roklcy  and  all  other  offences  committed 
bv  him  and  of  his  outlawry  in  the  county  of  York  for  not  appearing  before 
the  late  kin-  to  answer  John  Uokley  touching  the  death  of  the  said  Hobert 
his  broiher,"  whereof  he  appealed  him  on  Monday  m  Easter  week, 
23  Henry  VI. 

Grant  to  the  provost  and  royal  college  of  St.  Mary  Eton  by  Windsor,  co. 
Buckingham,  in  the  diocese  of  Lincoln,  that  they  and  ihe.r  successors  shall 
have  alt  writs,  charters,  letters  patent,  mandates  and  warrants  under  the 
..reat  seal  or  any  other  seal  of  the  king  and  his  successors  without  fine  or 
fe«.  ■ 

Grant  for  life  to  John  Davyson,  clerk,  of  the  office  of  keeper  or  clerk  of 
the  hanaper  of  Chancery,  with  the  accustomed  fees  from  the  issues  of  the 
1  By  ii.. 

hanaper.  ■' 


48 


CALENDAR  OF  PATENT  ROLLS. 


\4.QT^  Membrane  7 — cojit. 

Aug.  20.        Appointment  for  life  of  the  king's  servitor  John  Piofoote,  for  his  good 
Westminster,  service  to  the  king's  father  and  the  king,  as  the  king's  secretary  in  the 
Gallic  tongue,  in  the  same  manner  as  Master  Gervase  had  the  office, 
receiving  201.  yearly  from  Easter  last  at  the  hands  of  the  customers  and 
collectors  in  the  port  of  Southampton.  By  p.s, 

Aug.  27.  Grant  for  life  to  the  king's  servitors  William  Clayhroke,  yeoman  of  the 
Westminster,  king's  larder,  and  Thomas  Gilbert,  page  of  the  king's  wardrobe,  of  a 
tenement  in  the  town  of  Watirfulford,  co.  York,  called  '  Roos  Hall,'  lately 
belunging  to  Thomas,  late  lord  Roos,  rebel,  and  in  the  king's  hands  by  his 
forfeiture,  not  exceeding  the  yearly  value  of  11  marks  6s.  8d.  to  hold 
without  rendering  anything  to  the  king  except  the  accustomed  fees  and 
services.  By  p.s. 

Aug.  25.  Grant  in  frank  almoin  to  the  provost  and  royal  college  of  St.  Mary,  Eton 
Westminster,  by  Windsor,  CO.  Buckingham,  in  the  diocese  of  Lincoln,  of  the  advowsou 
of  the  alien  priory  of  Goldclyf  in  the  march  of  Wales,  in  ihe  diocese 
of  LlandafiT,  with  all  manors,  knights'  fees,  advowsons,  lands,  rents, 
reversions,  services,  mills,  woods,  meadows,  pastures,  feedings,  villeins, 
wards,  marriages,  commons,  courts,  reliefs,  views  of  frank-pledge,  liberties, 
franchises  and  other  commodities  pertaining  to  the  priory  in  England  and 
Wales,  held  in  chief,  descending  to  the  king  as  true  heir  of  Edward  III.  and 
Richard  IL  By  p.s. 


-j^^^g  Membrane  6. 

Feb,  16.  Grant  to  Christopher  Worseley,  esquire,  and  the  heirs  male  of  his  body 
Coventry.  of  the  manor  or  lordship  of  Tirant  Launceston,  co.  Dorset,  and  all  lands, 
rents,  reversions  and  services  in  Tirant  Launce.ston,  in  the  king's  hands  by 
reason  of  an  act  in  Parhament  at  Westminster,  4  November,  1  Edward  IV. 
to  hold  by  the  services  of  as  many  knights'  fees  and  as  many  other  rents  and 
services  as  they  were  held  by  before  4  March,  I  Edward  IV.  By  p.s. 

Fel).  15.        Grant  for  life  to  the  king's  servant  John  Baret,  second  clerk  of  the 
Coventry,     king's  kitchen,  of  the  office  of  ranger  of  the  king's  forest  of  Grovele, 
CO.  Wilts,  receiving  such  fees  as  were  allowed  to  John  Knottyngley,  ranger 
in  the  forest  in  the  time  of  Edward  III.  from  the  issues  of  the  county  of 
Wilts,  with  all  other  accustomed  profits  By  p.s. 

Feb.  14.  Appointment  of  John  Eltonhede  as  .auditor  of  all  castles,  lordsbips, 
Coventry,  manors,  lands  and  hereditaments  in  England  late  of  William  Zouche,  lord 
la  Zouche  and  Semore,  knight,  and  in  the  king's  hands  by  reason  of  the 
minority  of  John  Zouche,  now  lord  la  Zouche,  his  son  and  heir,  so  long  as 
they  shall  remain  in  the  king's  hands,  receiving  10/.  yearly  and  wages  of 
5*.  daily  with  all  other  accustomed  fees.  By  p.s. 

Feb.  18.        Presentation  of  William  Holme,  chaplain,  to  the  chantry  called  '  Ravenser- 
Coventry.     chauntry  '  in  the  cathedral  church  of  St.  Mary,  Lincoln,  void  by  the  death  of 
John  Tripp,  last  chaplain. 

Feb.  18.        Pardon  to  John  Boteler,  esquire,  late  escheator  in  the  counties  of  Kent 
Coventry,     and  Middlesex,  of  all  offences  committed  by  him  and  all  issues,  fines, 
amercements,  debts,  accounts  and  arrears  due  from  him  to  the  king. 

By  p.s.  ■ 

Feb.  13.  The  like  to  John  Chambre,  escheator  in  the  counties  of  Northampton  and 
Westminster.  Rutland.  Byp.s. 

Feb.  13.        General  pardon  to  John  Bate,  dean  of  the  collegiate  church  of  Tamworth, 
Coventry,     one  of  the  clerks  of  the  Chancery,  of  all  offences  committed  by  him  before 
12  February.  By  p.s. 


7  EDWARD  IV.— Part  II. 


41 


1468. 

Feb.  16. 
Coventry. 


Jan.  8. 
Dograersfield. 


Feb.  20. 

Coventry. 

Feb.  18. 

Coventry. 


Jan.  28. 

Westminster. 


Jan.  27. 

VVt'stininstcr. 


Jan.  23, 
Westminster. 


Membrane  G — cont. 

Giant  for  life  to  Bartilot  de  Ryvcr,  Gascon,  esquire,  alias  Bartholomew 
Darryveire,  knight,  of  80/.  yearly  from  Easter  last  at  the  receipt  of  the 
Exchequer,  in  lieu  of  grants  to  him  of  20/.  yearly  by  letters  patent  dated 
13  February,  1  Edward  IV.  and  60/.  yearly  by  letters  patent  dated 
29  August,  5  Edward  IV.  which  are  invalid.  By  p.s. 

Grant  for  life  to  the  king's  servant  Thomas  Ive  of  the  office  of  clerk  of 
the  crown  of  the  Chancery  with  all  profits  and  appurtenances  and  20/.  yearly 
from  Michaelmas  last  from  the  issues  of  the  hanaper,  as  John  de 
Tamworth  and  Geoffrey  Martyn  severally  held  it  in  the  time  of  Edward  III. 
and  a  livery  of  vesture  and  fur  yearly  at  Christmas  and  Whitsuntide  at  the 
great  wardrobe,  as  Richard  Sturgeon,  late  one  of  the  clerks  of  the  crown 
of  the  Chancery,  had ;  provided  that  he  receive  no  further  payment  of  the  20/. 
granted  to  him  by  letters  patent  on  2  January,  4  Edward  IV.  By  K. 

General  pardon  to  Richard  Richemond  of  Skelden,  co.  York,  '  husbondman.' 

By  p.s. 

Grant  for  life  to  the  king's  chaplain  John  Methop  of  10/.  yearly  from 
the  customs  and  subsidies  in  the  port  of  Southampton  to  serve  the  king  in 
the  chapel  of  St.  George  within  his  tower  in  that  town,  to  celebrate  divine 
fiervice  there  for  the  good  estate  of  the  king  and  his  consort  Elizabeth, 
queen  of  Engliuid,  and  their  children  and  for  their  souls  after  death  and 
the  souls  of  the  king's  progenitors.  By  p.s. 

Mandate  in  pursuance  to  the  customers  and  collectors  in  the  said  port. 

Membrane  5. 

Exemplification,  at  the  request  of  the  abbot  and  convent  of  St.  Edmund's 
Bury,  of  letters  patent  <lated  20  January,  37  Henry  VI.  granting  licence 
for  the  acquisition  in  mortmain  by  them  of  the  manor  of  A.spalcs  and 
land  in  IMildcnhale.  These  letters  have  been  lost  by  accident,  as  William 
Stei)henson  has  taken  oath  in  the  Chancery,  and  they  will  be  surrendered 
if  found. 

Grant  to  William  Herbert,  knight,  lord  Herbert,  in  lieu  of  a  like  grant 
by  letteis  patent  dated  26  October,  7  Edward  IV.  surrendered  because 
invalid,  of  the  custody  of  all  manors,  lordsiiips,  lands,  rent.s,  services  and 
possessions  with  knights'  fees  and  advowsons  late  of  ^Margaret,  countess  of 
Shi'ewsbury,  and  .Joan  late  the  wife  of  .John,  viscount  Lisle,  during 
the  minority  of  Thomas  Talbot,  knight,  vi.icount  Lisle,  son  and  heir  of  the 
said  .Joan  and  kinsman  and  heir  of  tiie  said  Margaret,  and  all  issues  of  the 
same  from  the  death  of  the  said  Joan  and  Margaret.  By  p.s. 

Pardon  to  William  Mathewe  late  of  London,  '  harbour,'  of  his  outlawry 
in  the  county  of  Middlesex  for  not  appearing  before  the  king  when  sued 
with  Richard  Clapehani  late  of  Alspatii,  co.  Warwick,  '  genlihnan,'  Robert 
Grcswold  late  of  Kenelworth,  co.  Warwick,  '  yoman,'  Roger  Moreton,  late 
of  Kenclwortli,  '  yoman,'  John  Mole,  late  of  Kenelworth,  '  yonian,'  Roger 
Merton,  late  of  Kenelworth,  'yoman,'  John  Eyres  late  of  Stratford  on 
Aven,  CO.  Warwick,  'yoman,'  Ricbaid  Peresson  late  of  Brayles,  co. 
Warwick,  'yoman,'  'J'homas  atte  Wodc  late  of  Wodehous,  co.  Warwick, 
'yoman,'  John  Rcdknyght  late  of  Offord,  co.  Warwick,  'husbondman,' 
John  Boteler  late  of  Al.spath,  '  gentilman,'  Roger  Warde  late  of  Alspaih, 
'  yoman,' Thomas  Bysshop  late  of  Alspath,  'yoman,'  William  Clapeham 
late  of  Alspaih,  'yoman,'  William  Moreton  late  of  Alspatli,  'yoman,' 
William  Fulford  late  of  Solyhidl,  co.  Warwick,  '  husbondman,'  William 
Kendale  late  of  BerkcswcU,  co.  Warwick,  '  husbondman,'  Thomas  Johnson 
late  of  Bermyngeham,  co.  Warwick,  'yoman,'  Baldwin  Smyth  late  of 
Bermyngeham,  'yoman,' William  Radcford  late  of  Berkeswall,  'yoman,' 


y  96186. 


50 


CALENDAR  OF  PATENT  ROLLS. 


24fjQ^  Membrane  5 — cont. 

Oliver  Yerdeley  of  KenelworLli,  'yoman,'  aud  John  Yerdeley  late  of 
Pakyngton  Priour,  co.  Warwick,  '  yoman,'  to  answer  touching  a  plea  of 
John  Parker  late  of  Colshill,  co.  Warwick,  '  yoman,'  that  they  procured  the 
latter  and  Thomas  Parker  late  of  Tonworth,  co.  Warwick,  '  gentilraan,'  and 
Edmund  Parker  late  of  Colshill,  '  yoman,'  to  be  indicted  at  Westminster, 
CO.  Middlesex,  of  a  felony  committed  against  the  said  William  at  Fyncheley 
Wode,  CO.  Middlesex,  although  at  the  time  the  said  John  was  dwelling  at 
Colshill  and  not  in  the  county  of  Middlesex,  contrary  to  the  form  of  a 
statute  in  Parliament  at  Westminster,  8  Henry  VI.  ;  the  said  William 
having  surrendered  to  the  Marshalsea  prison,  as  John  Markham,  chief 
justice  of  the  King's  Bench,  has  certified. 


1467.  Membrane  4. 

Dec.  5.         Presentation  of  William  Brown  to  the  parish  church  of  Little  Laufer, 
Dogmersfield.  in  the  diocese  of  Loudon,  void  by  the  resignation  of  John  Pelle,  last 
parson. 

Dec.  10.        Grant  for  life  to  Master  James  Friis,  doctor  of  medicine,  that  he  be  one 
Windsor.     of  the  poor  knights  of  the  college  of  the  king's  free  chapel  of  St.  George 
within  the  castle  of  Wyndesore,  receiving  wages  daily  and  vesture  yearly  at 
the  hands  of  the  warden  of  the  college,  with  a  habitation  within  the  castle 
and  all  other  things  as  any  of  the  poor  knights  had.  By  p.s. 

Grant  for  life  to  the  king's  servant  Christopher  Furneys,  in  lieu  of  a 
like  grant  to  Adam  Goodeale  by  letters  patent  dated  10  February, 
1  Edward  IV.  surrendered,  of  the  office  of  porter  of  the  outer  gate  of  the 
castle  of  Wyndesore  with  fees  as  in  the  times  of  Edward  III.  and  Richard  II. 
at  the  hands  of  the  constable  of  the  castle,  in  the  same  manner  as  the  said 
Adam  or  any  one  else  held  the  office.  By  p.s. 

Pardon  to  Elizabeth  Venour,  keeper  of  the  Flete  prison,  for  the  escapes 
of  George  Loughton,  William  Devare,  Roger  Gogney  and  John  Gose, 
prisoners  there.  By  p.s. 

General  pardon  to  Ralph  Boteler,  knight,  lord  of  Sudley,  for  all  offences 
committed  by  him  before  14  December  last  and  of  all  fines,  amercements, 
debts,  accounts  and  arrears  due  from  him  to  the  king.  By  p.s. 

Grant  for  life  to  the  king's  servant  Geoffrey  Warton,  esquire,  of  the 
manor  of  Thornton  and  all  lands,  rents,  reversions  and  services  pertaining 
to  it  in  the  county  of  York  late  of  Robert  Bollyng  late  of  Boiling,  co.  York, 
gentleman,  and  in  the  king's  hands  by  reason  of  his  forfeiture  and  by  virtue 
of  an  act  in  Parliament  at  Westminster,  4  November,  1  Edward  IV.  to 
hold  with  knights'  fees,  courts  leet,  views  of  frank-pledge,  liberties  and 
franchises  from  Easter  last  by  the  service  of  as  many  knights'  fees  and  as 
many  other  rents  and  services  as  they  were  held  by  before  4  Mai-ch, 
1  Edward  IV.  By  p.s. 

General  pardon  to  William  Garnet  the  younger  of  Corsthuayat,  co. 
Westmoreland,  'yoman,'  of  all  offences  committed  by  him  before  12 
November  and  all  forfeitures  of  lands  and  goods.  By  p.s. 

Pardon  to  William  Coveutre  ofWaraburgh,  co.  Wilts, 'yoman,'  of  his 
outlawry  in  the  county  of  Wilts  for  not  appearing  before  the  king  to  satisfy 
him  of  his  ranson  for  certain  trespasses  and  contempts  committed  against 
him  and  Edmund  Hungerford,  knight,  he  having  surrendered  to  the 
Marshalsea  prison,  as  John  Markham,  knight,  chief  justice  of  the  King's 
Bench,  has  certified. 


Nov,  2.5, 
Westminster. 


Dec.  17.. 
Dogmersfield. 

Dec.  17. 

Dogmersfield. 

1468. 

Jan.  1. 
Dogmersfield. 


1467. 

Dec.  30. 
Dogmersfield. 

1468. 

Feb.  3. 
Westminster. 


7  EDWARD  IV.— Part  II. 


51 


1467. 
Oct.  11. 

Westmiuster. 


Nov.  13. 
Westminster. 

Nov.  16. 

Westminster. 


Nov.  15. 
Westminster. 


Oct.  26. 
Westminster 


Nov.  13. 
Westminster. 


Nov.  19. 

W  estuiiiister. 


April  28. 

Westminster, 

Atig.  8. 

Westminster, 


Membrane  3. 

Grant  during  good  behaviour  to  John  Clerk  of  the  office  of  second  baron 
of  the  Exchequer,  receiving  the  accustomed  fees,  iu  extension  of  a  grunt 
to  him  of  the  same  office  during  pleasure  by  letters  patent  dated  8  April, 
1  Edward  IV.  By  p.s. 

General  pardon  to  William  Asshyndon,  abbot  of  the  monastery  of  St. 
Mary  the  Virgin,  Abendon,  co.  Berks.  By  p.s. 

Pardon  to  John  Uppecote  late  of  Little  Bocarn,  co.  Cornwall,  '  geiitihnan,' 
and  Joan  his  wife  of  their  outlawry  and  waiver  in  the  county  of  Cornwall 
for  not  appearing  before  the  justices  of  the  Bench  to  satisfy  the  king  of 
their  ransom  for  a  trespass  against  Thomas  Bore,  and  the  latter  of  10/. 
damages,  they  having  surrendered  to  the  Flcte  prison  and  the  said  Thomas 
having  appeared  beiore  the  said  justices  by  Richard  Reynold,  his  attorney, 
and  acknowledge  himself  satisfied,  as  Hobert  Danby,  chief  justice  of  the 
Bench,  has  certified. 

Pardon  to  Thomas  Fay  tour  late  of  the  parish  of  Herpford,  co.  Devon, 
'  liusbondman,'  of  his  outlawry  in  the  county  of  Devon  for  not  appearing 
before  John  Prysot  and  his  fellows,  justices  of  the  Bench  of  the  late  king, 
to  satisfy  Ricliard  Holmer  of  100s.  awarded  to  him  before  them  for  damages 
for  a  tiespass,  the  said  Thomas  having  surrendered  to  the  Flete  prison  and 
the  said  Richard  having  appeared  before  Robert  Danby  and  his  fellows, 
justices  of  the  Bench,  by  Richard  Levermore,  his  attorney,  and  acknowledged 
himself  satisfied. 

Grant  to  William  Herbert,  knight,  lord  Herbert,  for  300  marks  paid  to 
the  king,  of  the  custody  of  all  lordships,  manors,  lands,  i-ents,  services  and 
possessions  with  knights'  fees  of  Margaret,  late  countess  of  Shrewsbury, 
and  Joan  late  the  wife  of  John,  viscouni  Lisle,  during  the  minority  of 
Thomas  Talbot,  knight,  viscount  LLslc,  son  and  heir  of  Joan  and  kinsman 
and  heir  of  Margaret,  with  all  issues  from  the  death  of  Margaret  and  Joan, 
supporting  all  houses  and  enclosure.^.  By  bill  of  the  treasurer. 

Grant  to  the  king's  kinsman  Richard,  earl  of  Warwick  and  Salisbury,  of 
the  custody  of  all  lordships,  manors,  lands,  rent.'-',  services  and  possessions 
with  advowsons,  knights'  fees,  franchises,  liberties,  warrens,  courts  leet  and 
other  commodities  late  of  John  Lovell,  knight,  deceased,  tenant  in  chief,  or 
.Joan  his  wife  or  any  ancestor  of  Francis  his  son  and  heir  during  the 
minority  of  the  said  Franci.s,  and  his  custody  and  marriage  without  dis- 
paragement, and  so  from  hen-  to  heir,  finding  a  competent  sustenance  for 
the  heir.  By  p.s. 

Pardon  to  John  Sutton  late  of  Eve.shani,  co.  Worcester,  alias  of  London, 
'goldsmyth,'  of  his  outlawry  in  the  county  of  Worcester  for  not  appearing 
before  Thomas  Lyttylton  and  his  fellows,  justices  of  the  peace  in  the  county, 
to  answer  the  king  touching  divers  trespasses,  he  having  surrendered  to  the 
Marshalsea  prison,  as  John  Markham,  knight,  chief  justice  of  the  King's 
Bench,  has  certified. 

Appointment,  during  pleasure,  of  Guy  Fayrefax  as  one  of  the  king's 
Serjeants  at  law,  receiving  the  accustomed  fees. 

Grant  to  the  king's'  kinsman  John  Bourghchier,  knight,  and  the  heir.s 
male  of  his  body  of  tlie  manor  of  Ilemyngton,  co.  Somerset,  the  manor  of 
Baylyford,  co.  Devon,  the  manor  of  Kinuie,  co.  Devon,  with  advowsons  and 
portions  of  churches  and  all  other  lands  and  possessions  of  Thomas 
Courtoney,  late  carl  of  Devon,  with  knights'  fees,  courts  leet,  views  of 
frank  pledge,  franchises,  escheats,  liberties,  warrens,  parks,  fairs,  markets 
and  all  other  profits,  iu  the  king's  hands  by  reason  of  an  act  of  forfeiture 
in  Parliament  at  Westminster,  4  November,  1  Edward  IV.  to  hold  by  the 
rents  and  services  of  as  many  knights'  fees  and  as  many  other  rents  and 

D  2 


52 


CALENDAR  OP  PATENT  ROLLS. 


24Q7_  Membrane  3 — cont. 

serviced  as  they  were  held  by  before  4  March,  1  Edward  IV.  with  all 
reveuues  from  Easter  last,  without  fine  or  fee.  By  p.s. 

1468. 

Jan.  28.        Pardon  to  George,  the  abbot,  and  the  convent  of  the  monastery  of 
Westminster.  St.  Peter,  Westminster,  for  the  escape  of  Maurice  Newton,  late  of  London, 
'soudeour,'  convicted  of  felony  and  delivered  to  their  custody.  By  p.s. 


1467. 

Aug.  13. 
Westminster. 


1468. 

Jan.  28. 
Westminster. 


Jan.  28. 
Westminster. 


Jan.  28. 
Westminster. 


Jan.  28. 
Westminster. 


Jan.  29. 

Westminster. 


Jan.  29. 
Westminster. 


.Tan.  28. 

Westminster. 


1467. 

Nov.  15. 
Westminster. 


Membrane  2. 

Grant  to  Everard  van  Newkerkyn  alias  Newchirche  of  Nuce,  born  in 
the  bishopric  of  Cologne,  and  the  heirs  of  his  body  of  letters  of  denization. 

By  p.s. 

Presentation  of  William  Hawart  to  the  parish  church  of  St.  Martin  in 
the  city  of  Chichester,  of  the  jurisdiction  of  the  dean  of  the  cathedral 
church  of  Chichester,  void  by  the  resignation  of  William  Cole,  last  parson. 

Protection,  for  four  years,  for  the  timber,  stone,  tiles  and  other  stuff 
provided  by  John  Crosby,  citizen  of  London,  for  certain  edifices  which  he 
intends  to  construct  within  the  city  and  his  carpenters,  stone-cutters  and 
other  labourers.  By  p.s. 

General  pardon  to  Richard  Arnold,  citizen  and  '  haburdassher '  of 
London,  for  all  offences  committed  by  him  before  24  December  last. 

By  p.s. 

Commission  to  Thomas  Wynterborn,  John  Wardale,  doctors  at  law, 
Michael  Carvanell,  licentiate  in  laws,  Thomas  Houghton,  William 
Alborowe  and  Robert  Foster  of  London,  merchants,  to  hear  and  determine 
an  appeal  by  Thomas  Blake,  citizen  and  salter  of  London,  from  a  sentence 
delivered  by  William  Godeyere,  doctor  of  laws,  lieutenant  and  commissary 
general  of  the  king's  brother  (cjcrmani)  Richard,  duke  of  Gloucester, 
admiral  of  England,  Ireland  and  Aquitaine,  at  Hortou  Key  in  Suthwerk 
by  the  tideway  in  a  high  hall  there  in  the  parish  of  St.  Olave  in  a  maritime 
cause  between  the  said  Thomas  and  John  Wellys,  mariner. 

Presentation  of  Richard  Wodward,  king's  clerk,  to  the  parish  church 
of  Alvescote,  in  the  diocese  of  Lincoln,  void  by  the  death  of  Henry  Halle, 
last  parson. 

Pardon  to  Richard  Thorndon  of  Wolfardesworthy,  co,  Devon,  '  laborer,' 
of  his  outlawry  in  the  county  of  Devon  for  not  appearing  before  the 
justices  of  the  Bench  to  satisfy  the  king  of  his  ransom  for  a  trespass 
committed  against  Henry  Notte  at  Thelbrygge  and  Chiriton  Fitz  Payn,  he 
having  surrendered  to  the  Fletc  prison  and  satisfied  the  said  Henry,  as 
Robert  Danby,  chief  justice  of  the  Bench,  has  certified. 

Grant  for  life  to  Petronilla  Mountferaut,  late  the  wife  of  Bertram, 
lord  Mountferant,  of  20/.  yearly  Irom  Easter  last  at  the  receipt  of  the 
Exchequer,  in  lieu  of  a  like  grant  from  the  issues  of  the  counties  of 
Bedford  and  Buckingham  by  letters  patent  dated  30  April,  4  Edward  IV. 
which  are  void  by  virtue  of  an  act  in  the  present  Parliament.  By  p.s. 

Grant  for  life  to  Edward  Berkeley,  esquire,  in  lieu  of  a  like  grant  by 
letters  patent  dated  2t)  April  last,  surrendered  because  invalid,  of  the  office 
of  bailiff  of  Burley  in  the  New  Forest,  co.  Southampton,  receiving  Ad.  daily 
from  the  said  26  April  from  the  issues  of  the  county  of  Southampton,  with 
all  other  profits.  By  p.s. 


7  EDWARD  IV.— Part  II. 


53 


1468. 

Feb.  17. 
Coventry. 


1467. 

Dec.  3. 
Westminster, 


Membrane  1. 

Grant  to  Walter  Blount,  king's  knight,  lord  Mountjoye,  late  treasurer  of 
England,  in  full  satisfaction  of  the  sum  of  3,436/.  13s.  Ad.  assigned  to 
him  by  7  tallies  levied  at  the  receipt  of  the  Exchequer  on  14  December, 
5  Edward  IV.  of  which  he  has  as  yet  received  no  payment,  that  he  and 
Master  Thomas  Kent,  Hugh  Fenne,  Humphrey  Starky  aud  John  Croke, 
citizens  of  London,  and  Richard  Stoke  or  their  executors,  factors, 
attorneys  or  assigns  in  each  of  the  next  four  years  may  ship  234^  sacks  of 
wool  quit  of  customs  and  subsidies  at  the  rate  of  4  marks  only  on  each  sack 
for  all  customs,  subsidies  and  demands,  and  other  merchandise  (not  being 
wool  or  wool-fells),  in  any  ports  of  the  realm  and  take  them  to  foreign  parts 
by  the  straits  of  Marrok  or  bring  back  merchandise  from  foreign  parts  quit 
of  customs  and  subsidies  to  the  amount  of  234/.  3.?.  Ad. ;  which  said  custom 
and  subsidy  amount  in  the  case  of  the  wool  to  625/.,  and  in  the  case  of  the 
other  merchandise  exported  or  imported  to  234/.  3*.  4rf.  in  each  of  the  four 
years.  And  if  in  any  year  they  shall  not  have  shipped  wools  or  other 
merchandise  to  that  amount  they  may  make  up  the  deficiency  afterwards. 

By  p.s. 

General  pardon  to  Richard  Crofte  the  elder,  esquire,  for  all  offences 
committed  by  him  and  all  debts,  accounts  and  arrears  due  to  the  king. 

By  p.s. 


Membrane  22d. 

Sept.  7.         Commission  to  Thomas  Frowyk,  esquire,  John  Blofeld,  Thomas  Asshby 
Dog:ncrsfield.  and  William  Norton  to  arrest  Thomas  Yonge  of  He.«e,  co.  Jliddlesex, 
'yoman,'  and  bring  him  before  the  king  in  Chancery. 

Sept.  9.  The  like  to  Robert  Wilson  to  arrest  William  Chadwall  of  London, 
Westminster.  '  harburdasshcr,'  Thomas  Fyssher  of  Glaston,  Thomsis  Briker,  '  harpe- 
maker,'  Thomas  Goldsmyth  of  Welles,  Robert  Togyll  of  Hungerford, 
Giles  Parker  of  Hungerford,  John  Goldsmyth  of  Welles,  '  Ducheman,' 
William  Thomas  of  Welles,  *  towekar,'  Thomas  Walter  of  Weston, 
'  parissh  clerk,'  Maurice  William  of  Wales,  John  Broun,  Nicholas  Bcnet  of 
Melbornc,  one  Andrew,  chaplain,  one  of  the  vicars  of  the  cathedral  church 
of  Wells,  the  rector  of  the  parish  church  of  Pitteney,  William  Bygnower  of 
Crudwell  and  the;  vicar  of  Melhorn,  counterfeiters  of  the  king's  money,  and 
others  of  their  fellowship,  and  bring  them  before  the  king  and  council. 

The  like  to  Richard  Haute  the  elder  to  arrest  Ralph  Wynchestre  of 
Hungerford  and  Robert  Togill  of  Hungerford  and  bring  them  before  the 
king  and  council. 

Sept.  26.  The  like  to  John  Lysle,  knight,  George  Lysle,  csciuire,  William  Sandes, 
Dogmersfield.  esqiiire,  John  Rogers,  cs(iuire,  William  Dale,  esejuirc,  Robert  Barell  of 
Andever,  'gentilman,'  William  Gunter  of  the  same,  William  Baker  of  the 
same  and  the  sheriff  of  Southampton  to  arrest  Richard  Stergrave  of 
Winchester,  '  hosteler,'  John  Halle  of  Winchester,  '  taillour,'  Roger  Smyth 
of  the  same,  '  smyth,'  Richard  Curteys  of  Andever,  William  Clyfford  of 
the  same,  Philip  Morund  of  the  same,  William  Nottekyn  of  the  same  the 
elder,  Richard  Nottekyn  of  the  same  and  William  Nottekyn  of  the  same 
the  younger  aud  bring  them  before  the  king  in  Chancery  in  a  month  from 
Michaelmas. 


Membrane  I9d. 

July  5.         Commission  to  Henry  Bodrugan,  Thomas  Clemens  and  the  sheriff  of 
Westminster.  Cornwall  to  enquire  into  the  complaint  of  James  Froidevall  and  Yvo 
Aufrey,  merchants  of  Brittany,  that,  whereas  in  April  last  they  caused 


54 


CALENDAR  OF  PATENT  ROLLS. 


Aug.  18. 
We.^tminster. 


Oct.  27. 

Westminster. 


J4g7.  Membrane  19c? — cont. 

36  tuns  of  grain  and  a  chest  filled  with  knives  and  other  merchandise  to  the 
value  of  300  crowns  (scutorurn)  to  be  freighted  in  a  ship  of  Spain  to  be  taken 
to  the  city  of  Verundo  in  Spain,  certain  armed  men  in  a  ship  of  Fowy  came 
upon  the  said  ship  at  sea  and  took  it  to  Fowy,  contrary  to  the  form  of  the 
truce  between  the  king  and  his  kinsman  the  duke  of  Brittany,  and  to 
cause  restitution  to  be  made  and  to  arrest  and  imprison  the  offenders  and 
to  enquire  who  were  the  owners,  victuallers  and  master  of  the  said  ship  of 
Fowy. 

Aug.  5.  Commission  to  Henry  Bodrugan,  Thomas  Clemens  and  the  sheriff  of 
Westminster.  Cornwall,  on  complaint  by  John  Dubrossay,  merchant  of  Brittany,  that 
three  years  ago,  during  the  truce  between  the  king  and  his  kinsman  the 
duke  of  Brittany,  William  Whyte,  James  Amelyn,  Peter  Jakharry,  John 
Petyt,  Thomas  Kylegrewe  and  otlicr  malefactors  and  pirates  in  a  ship  of 
Mountesbay  took  a  ship  of  his  sailing  at  sea  laden  with  92  tuns  of  wine  and 
took  it  to  Cornwall,  to  arrest  and  imprison  the  said  William,  James,  Peter, 
J ohn  and  Thomas  and  to  cause  restitution  to  be  made. 

Commission  to  John  Sutton  of  Dudley,  knight,  Henry  Bold,  knight, 
William  GryfFyth  and  David  Middelton  to  take  the  muster  of  the  king's 
kinsman  John,  earl  of  Worcester,  deputy  of  the  king's  brother  George, 
duke  of  Clarence,  lieutenant  of  Ireland,  and  700  archers  of  his  retinue  at 
Beaumarres  and  to  certify  to  the  king  and  council  touching  their  array. 

Commission  of  oyer  and  terminer  to  Walter  Devereux  of  Ferrers  of 
Charteley,  knight,  William  Herbert  of  Herbert,  knight,  Richard  Herbert, 
knight,  Roger  Vaghan,  knight,  Thomas  Herbert,  William  Notynham,  John 
Mylewater,  John  Herbert,  Hugh  Huntley  and  Thomas  Morgan  touching 
certain  counterfeitings,  clippings,  sweatings  and  other  falsifications  of  money 
in  South  Wales.  By  K. 

Membrane  l7d. 

Oct.  7.         Commission  to  William  Berkeley,  knight,  William  Berkeley,  esquire, 
Westminster.  John  Twynowe,  Thomas  Whityngton,  Richard  Forster,  Richard  Poynes, 
Thomas  Lynbrik,  Edmund  Blounte  and  Richard  Kayton  to  enquire  into 
the  death  of  Robert  Rede  at  Eston,  co.  Gloucester. 

Oct.  12.        Commission  to  John  Curteys  and  Robert  Peke  to  enquire  concerning  all 
Westminster,  lands  accjuired  by  aliens  without  licence  and   all    lands    detained  and 
concealed  from  the  king  in  the  counties  of  Norfolk,  Suffolk,  Lincoln  and 
York  and  the  cities  of  York,  Lincoln  and  Norwich. 

Aug.  14.  Commission  of  oyer  and  terminer  to  William  Herbert  of  Herbert,  knight, 
Westminster.  Walter  Devereux  of  Ferrers,  knight,  James  Baskervile,  knight,  Richard 
Herbert,  kniglil,  Roger  Vaghan,  laiight,  Walter  Skulle,  knight,  William 
Notyngham,  Thomas  ap  Resser,  esquire,  Henry  Gryffethe,  esquire,  John 
Milewater,  esquire,  Morgan  ap  Jankyn  ap  Phelip,  esquire,  Thomas  Hurde, 
Hugh  Hunteley,  John  Herliert,  Thomas  Morgan,  Thomas  Brigge  and 
John  Welleford  in  North  Wales,  Avith  power  of  pardon  or  arrest.       By  K. 

Membrane  lod. 

July  20.        Commission  to  Robert  Spaldyng,  one  of  the  king's  Serjeants  at  arms, 
Westminster.  William  Welles  and  Henry  Miller  to  arrest  Hamo  alias  Hamelet  Lovell  and 
bring  him  before  the  king  in  Chancery. 

Membrane  13d. 

Nov.  28.  _  Grant  to  the  mayor  and  bailiffs  of  the  city  of  Hereford  of  murage  for 
Westminster,  eight  years,  to  be  expended  on  the  repair  of  the  enclosure  and  walls  of  the 


7  EDWARD  IV.— Part  II. 


56 


1467.  Membrane  13c? — cont. 

city  by  tlie  supervision  of  Richard  Chok,  knight,  and  Thomas  Breynton, 
citizen  of  the  city. 

Membra  XE  12d. 

Nov.  20.  Commission  to  Roger  Dynham,  Charles  Dynham  and  .John  Meryfeld  to 
Westminster,  enquire  if  William  Heryson  of  Brittany,  master  of  a  carvel  of  Seynt  Malowes, 
Alexander  Tons  of  Taunton,  co.  Somerset,  '  marchaunt,'  Richard  Bevyn  of 
Taunton,  '  marchaunt,'  and  Richard  Taylonr  of  Topsham,  co.  Devon, 
'  marchaunt,'  freighted  5,000  pieces  of  tin  and  300  dozens  of  woollen  cloth 
in  the  said  carvel  at  Topsham  or  any  other  place  wiihin  the  county  of 
Devon  without  licence  and  without  customs  and  subsidies  and  caused  them 
to  be  taken  to  foreign  parts. 

Nov.  24.       Commission  to  William  Carant,  .John  Neuburgh,  William  Brounyng  tlie 
Westiniiister.  elder,  John  Carant,  Willi;im  Kaylcway  and  William  Brounyng  the  young'>r 
to  deliver  the  gaol  of  Dorchestre  of  David  Deuc  alias  Thcwc  alias  Tewe 
late  of  Shyrborne,  co.  Dorset,  '  brasyetour,'  prisoner  there. 


Membrane  lOd. 

Oct.  10.  Commission  to  the  justices  of  the  peace  in  the  West  Riding  of  the  county 
Westminster,  of  York  and  James    Strangways,   knight,   William    Pionipton,  knight, 

Geoffrey  I'ygot,  knight,  Richard  Ilamerton,  kniglit,   Halpli  Ayssheton. 

knight,  Richard  Aldcburgh,  William  Palmes,  Henry  Eltoft  and  the  sheriff 

of  York  to  arrest  .John  Slyngcsby  late  of  Scryven,  co.  York,  '  gentilnian,' 

and  bring  him  before  the  king  in  Chancery  to  find  .security  that  he  will  not 

harm  Brian  Rouclyff  or  any  of  the  king's  people. 
Oct.  22.        Commission    to    John   Cheyne,  knight,  l']dmund    Bnrdenell,  Thomas 
Westminster.  Hampdene  of  Kymbell  and  Robert  Bnlstrodc  lo    deliver    the  gaol  of 

Aylesbury  of  John   Wylde  late  of  Horsyngdon,  co.  Buckingham,  clerk, 

prisoner  there. 

1468.  Membrane  8d. 

Jan.  3.  Commission  of  oyer  and  terminer  to  the  king's  brother  George,  dnki-  of 
Dograersfield.  Clarence,  the  king's  kinsman  Richard,  earl  of  Warwick  and  Salisbniy, 
and  Ricliard,  carl  of  Ryvers,  Antony  Wydevile  of  Scales,  knight,  .lolm 
Audeley  of  Andeley,  knight,  John  Sutton  of  Dudley,  knight,  William 
Ilastynges  of  Hastynges,  knight,  Walter  Blount  of  Mouiitjoy,  knight, 
John  Markham,  knight,  Thomas  Billyng,  Thomas  Littelton,  John  Pogge, 
knight,  John  Scot,  knight,  'J'homas  Hurgh,  knight,  Richard  Neell  and 
John  Catesby  in  the  counties  of  Nottingham,  Derby,  Stafford,  Salop  and 
Hereford.  By  K. 

Jan.  13.  The  like  to  the  king's  brother  George,  duke  of  Clarence,  the  king's 
Dogmersfield.  kinsmen  Richard,  earl  of  Warwick  and  Salisbury,  and  Richard,  earl  of 
Ryvers,  Antony  AVydeville  of  Scales,  knight,  John  Audeley  of  Audeley, 
knight,  John  Sutton  of  Dudley,  kniglit,  William  Hastynges  of  Hastynges, 
knight,  Walter  Devereux  of  Ferrers,  knight,  Humphrey  Bourgehier  of 
Cromwell,  knight,  Walter  Blount  of  Mountjoy,  knight,  John  Markham, 
knight,  Thomas  Billyng,  Thomas  Littelton,  John  Fogge,  knight,  John  Soot, 
knight,  Thomas  Burgh,  knight,  and  John  Catesby  in  the  counties  of 
Warwick,  Worcester,  Nottingham,  Derby,  Stafford,  Salo])  and  Hereford. 

^  ByK. 

Jan.  13.  Commission  to  the  sheriff  of  Sussex  to  set  wards,  watches  and  signs 
Dogmersfield.  called  'bekyns'  at  all  convenient  and  accustomed  places  within  the  county, 


56 


CALENDAR  OF  PATENT  ROLLS. 


1468.  Membrane  8d — cont. 

in  view  of  the  expiration  of  the  truce  between  the  king  and  Louis  of 
France  at  sunrise  on  1  March  next.    [Fcedera.]  By  K. 

The  like  to  the  sheriffs  in  the  following  counties  : — 
Wilts.  Devon. 
Kent.  Lincoln. 
Somerset  and  Dorset.  Essex. 
York.  Norfolk  and  Suffolk. 

Cornwall.  Southampton. 


1467.  Membrane  Id. 

Nov.  22.  Commission  to  John  Dyve,  Edmund  Brudenell,  Richard  Fouler,  Thomas 
Westminster.  Rokes  and  Thomas  Hampden  of  Kymbell  to  inquire  into  the  petition  of 
Thomas  Oxbrigge,  esquire,  that  whereas  by  a  fine  levied  at  Westminster 
in  three  weeks  of  Easter,  20  Edward  IIL  before  John  Stonore  and 
his  fellows,  justices,  and  afterwards  in  the  octave  of  Trinity  following 
between  Thomas  Frembaud  and  Alice  his  wife  and  Matilda  late  the  wife 
of  Thomas  Wengrave,  complainants,  and  Henry  de  Cobbelyngton, 
parson  of  the  church  of  Raddeleston,  deforciant,  the  latter  granted  a 
messuage,  120  acres  of  land,  25  acres  of  meadow  and  8  acres  of  pasture 
in  Wyngrave  and  Rollesham,  co.  Buckingham,  to  the  said  Thomas  and 
Alice  and  the  heirs  of  their  bodies  with  remainder  to  the  right  heirs 
of  Thomas  and  also  605.  of  rent  in  the  same  to  the  said  Matilda  for 
life  with  remainder  to  the  said  Thomas  and  Alice  as  above,  and  they  were 
seised  of  the  above  and  had  issue  Thomas  Frembaud,  esquire,  and  Joan, 
and  after  their  death  the  premises  descended  to  the  said  Thomas  the  son 
and  then  to  Thomas,  son  of  the  latter,  and  then  to  Isabel,  daughter  of 
the  said  Thomas  the  third,  who  died  without  issue,  and  then  to  William 
Oxbrigge,  father  of  the  said  Thomas  Oxbrigge,  as  her  kinsman  and  heir, 
viz.  son  of  Elizabeth  daughter  of  the  said  Joan,  and  then  on  his  death 
to  the  said  Thomas  Oxbrigge,  who  entered  into  and  was  seised  of  the 
same  in  his  demesne  as  of  fee  tail  and  continued  his  estate  therein  until 
24  February,  4  Edward  IV.  when  it  was  found  by  an  inquisition  taken  at 
Aylesbury,  co.  Buckingham,  before  John  Holcot,  then  escheator  in  the 
county,  that  Edmund  Hampden  late  of  Barkley,  co.  Oxford,  knight,  who 
was  attainted  by  virtue  of  an  act  in  Parliament  at  Westminster,  4  November, 
1  Edward  IV.  was  seised  in  his  demesne  as  of  fee  on  4  March,  1  Edward  IV. 
of  the  manor  of  Wyngrave  called  '  Bury  Maner '  with  members  in  Rulsam, 
CO.  Buckingham,  then  of  the  value  of  7  marks  yearly,  which  the  said  Thomas 
declares  to  be  the  same  as  the  said  premises,  the  said  Thomas  by  virtue 
of  the  said  inquisition  was  expelled  therefrom  and  the  premises  were 
taken  into  the  king's  hands  until  22  April,  5  Edward  IV.  when  by  letters 
patent  the  king  granted  them  to  Richard  Crofte  the  younger  and  Thomas 
Crofte,  esquires,  but  the  said  Edmund  never  had  any  right  therein, 
wherefore  the  said  Thomas  Oxbrigge  prays  that  justice  may  be  done. 

By  p.s. 

Membrane  6d. 

Commission  of  array  to  Antony  Wydevile  of  Scales  of  Neucels,  knight, 
John  Lysle,  knight,  Thomas  Uvedale,  knight,  Maurice  Berkeley,  Roger 
Sainbroke  and  Thomas  Boureman  within  the  Isle  of  Wight. 

The  like  to  the  king's  kinsmen  Richard  {sic),  earl  of  Arundel,  and  Antony 
Wydevile  of  Scales,  knight,  and  John  Audeley  of  Audeley,  knight,  John 
Lysle,  knight,  Thomas  Uvedale,  knight,  Richard  Darell,  knight,  Maurice 
Berkeley,  John  Pawelet,  William  Brocas,  John  Walop,  William  Uvedale, 
AVilliam  Sandes,  Thomas  Pounde,  Thomas  Well,  John  Kirkeby,  John 


1468. 

Feb.  13. 

Coventry. 


7  EDWARD  IV.— Part  11. 


57 


X468.  Membrane  Gd — cont. 

Whitehed,  Walter  Barowe,  John  Hamond,  Henry  More  and  Robert 
Ryngebourn  within  the  county  of  Southampton. 

Feb.  15.  Commission  of  oyer  and  terminer  to  Walter  Devereux  of  Ferrers,  knight, 
CovcDtry.  William  Herbert  of  Herbert,  knight,  Richard  Herbert,  knight,  Roger 
Vaghan,  knight,  John  Milewater,  Thomas  Morgan,  John  Herbert  and  Hugh 
Huntley  touching  certain  counterfeitings,  clippings,  sweatings  and  other 
falsifications  of  money  in  the  counties  of  Hereford  and  Gloucester  and  in 
Wales  and  South  Wales  and  the  marches.  By  K. 

Feb.  17.  Commission  to  John  Waynflete  and  Richard  Harleston  to  take  ships  and 
Coventry,     vessels  for  the  king's  fleet  and  masters  and  mariners  for  them. 

Feb.  18.  Commission  to  Antony  Wydevile  of  Scales,  knight,  Thomas  Langford, 
Coventry.  William  Obray,  Richard  Harleston,  John  Demoyne  and  the  sheriffs  of 
Southampton,  Wilts  and  the  town  of  Southampton  to  enquire  into  the  story 
of  Baldwin  de  Bruges  in  Flanders  tiiat  about  13  November  last  a  ship  of 
Portugal  called  Fortado  laden  witli  sugar  {sucturo),  staves  for  bows  and 
'  sugrennel '  and  other  merchandise  of  his  was  cast  ashore  by  the  intem- 
perateness  of  the  sea  at  Stokebay,  co.  Southampton,  and  the  said  goods 
and  merchandise  were  carried  away  by  certain  subjects  of  the  king  to  the 
port  of  Southampton,  the  cities  of  Winchester  and  Salisbury,  the  Isle  of 
Wight  and  other  places,  contrary  to  the  truce  between  the  king  and  his 
kinsman  the  duke  of  Burgundy,  and  to  cause  restitution  to  be  made  and  to 
arrest  and  imprison  the  offender.s. 

Feb.  20.        Commission  to  William  Carant,  John  Neuburgh,  William  Brounyng  the 
Westminster,  elder,  Joiin  Carant,  William  Cayleway  and  William  Brounyng  the  younger 
to  deliver  the  gaol  of  Dorchestre  of  David  Deue  alias  Thewe  alias  Tewo 
late  of  Shirbourue,  co.  Dorset,  '  brasietour,'  prisoner  there. 


1467. 

Dec.  22. 

Dogmersfield. 


1468. 

Jan.  1. 
Dogmersfield. 


Membrane  4d. 

Commission  to  Humphrey  St  ifford  of  Suthwyk,  knight,  John  Dowcrissh, 
John  Wynard,  John  Crokker  and  Ricliard  Wynsloo  to  arrest  John 
Rawlegh  of  Dcrtniouth,  Walter  Cok  and  Ralph  Mercer  within  the  county 
of  Devon  and  bring  them  before  the  king  and  council.  'J'he  king  lately 
appointed  John  Wenlok  of  Wcnlok,  knight,  and  others  fo  exaniine  the 
complaint  of  John  le  Veer,  bailiff  of  Ermewe  in  Seland,  and  Adrian  Smoct, 
burgess  of  Monkered  in  Flanders,  on  behalf  of  themselves  and  other  part- 
owners,  victuallers  and  masters  of  six  ships  of  Flanders  that  the  .said  ships 
were  taken  by  certain  subjects  of  the  king  in  certain  shijjs  of  the  realm 
of  which  the  said  John,  Walter  and  Ralph  with  others  were  part-owners, 
victuallers  and  masters,  contrary  to  the  truce  between  the  king  and  I'hilip, 
late  duke  of  Burgundy,  and  despoiled  of  wine  and  other  goods  and 
merchandise  and  certain  habiliments  and  gear  to  the  value  of  4,330  crowns, 
and  after  consideration  of  their  examination  the  king  gave  judgment  by  the 
advice  of  the  council  that  restitution  should  be  made,  but  the  said  John  le 
Veer  and  Adrian  have  failed  to  get  restitution. 

The  like  to  Ilumplirey  Stalibrd  of  Suthwyk,  knight,  John  Arundoll, 
knight,  Alvred  Corneburgh,  Thomas  Clemens,  John  Sturgeon  and  Thomas 
Lymbery  in  the  county  of  Cornwall. 

Commis.sion  to  Henry  Bodrugan  and  the  sheriff  of  Cornwall  to  arrest 
William  White,  Jocosus  Amelyn  alias  Joceus  Ammell  and  Thomas 
Kylegrewe  and  bring  them  before  the  king  in  Chancery.  The  king  lately 
by  letters  patent  appointed  the  said  Henry  and  Thomas  Clemens  and  John 
Colshull,  kni<!,ht,  then  sheriff  of  Cornwall,  to  arrest  and  imprison  them  and 


68 


CALENDA.R  OF  PATENT  ROLLS. 


1468.  Membrane  4id — cont. 

others,  on  complaint  by  John  Dubrossay,  merchant  of  Brittany,  but  they 
could  not  be  found.    {See  p.  54.) 

Jan.  3.  Commission  to  Walter  Devereux  of  Ferrers,  knight,  William  Harbert 
Dogmersfield.  of  Harbert,  knight,  James  Baskarvile,  knight,  Richard  Harbert,  knight, 
Roger  Vaghan,  knight,  William  Notyngharn,  John  Milewater,  Thomas 
Morgan  and  Hugh  Huntley  to  enquire  into  certain  counterfeitings,  clippings, 
sweatings  and  other  falsifications  of  money  within  the  counties  of  Salop 
and  Hereford  and  the  parts  of  Wales  and  the  marches  of  the  same  and  to 
punish  the  delinquents. 


1467.  Membrane  3d. 

Nov.  3.  Commission  to  John  ColsuU,  knight,  John  Denys,  Thomas  Lucombe 
Westminster,  and  William  Rosemoderes  to  enquire  into  the  supplication  of  John 
Arundell  of  Trerys,  esquire,  that  whereas  on  the  morrow  of  the  Ascension, 
L  Henry  VI.  a  fine  was  levied  at  Westminster  before  Richard  Norton  and 
his  fellows,  justices  of  the  Common  Bench,  and  afterwards  in  Easter  term, 
2  Henry  VI.  before  the  said  justices  it  was  agreed  between  John  Corke, 
complainant,  and  John  Arundell  of  Trerys  and  Joan  his  wife,  deforciants, 
that  the  manor  of  EfFord,  co.  Cornwall,  was  the  right  of  the  said  John 
Corke  of  the  grant  of  the  said  John  Arundell  and  Joan  and  the  said  John 
Corke  granted  the  manor  to  tliem  and  the  heirs  of  their  bodies,  by  force 
of  which  they  were  seised  of  the  manor  and  received  the  esplees,  and  after 
their  decease  the  right  of  the  manor  descended  to  Nicholas  their  son  and 
heir  and  he  Avas  seized  of  it  and  after  his  decease  the  right  descended  to  the 
said  supplicant  as  his  son  and  heir  and  he  entered  into  the  manor  and  was 
seised  of  it  until  1  October,  4  Edward  IV.  when  it  was  found  by  an 
inquisition  taken  at  Launceston,  co.  Cornwall,  before  Thomas  Wise  and 
Thomas  Gill,  esquires,  by  virtue  of  a  commission  under  the  great  seal 
directed  to  them  and  Oto  Gilbert,  esquire,  and  John  Giffard,  that  Baldwin 
Fulford,  knight,  attainted  of  high  treason  by  an  act  in  Parliament  at 
Westminster,  4  November,  1  Edward  IV.  held  on  the  day  of  his  death 
eight  messuages,  two  tofts,  two  carucates  and  64  acres  of  land,  6  acres  of 
meadow,  200  acres  of  pasture,  30  acres  of  wood,  a  moiety  of  three  tofts,  51 
acres  of  land,  4  acres  of  meadow,  60  acres  of  pasture,  3  knights'  fees  and 
10*.  of  rent  yearly  in  Wesprayhele,  Loterigge,  Tekebare,  Bowton,  Stratton, 
EfFord,  Stonlond,  Bithestrond,  Coleton,  Pynchelegh,  Ketelegh,  Marchalles- 
lond,  Crabhay,  Borecole,  Pennalyn,  Cardiuan,  Weke  Saint  Mary,  Bradderige 
and  Benam,  co.  Cornwall,  in  his  demesne  as  of  fee  of  John  Keynes  by 
fealty  and  the  rent  of  8  marks  yearly,  and  he  died  on  9  September, 
1  Edward  IV.  and  the  premises  are  worth  1005.  yearly  and  form  the  manor 
of  Efford,  and  by  virtue  of  the  said  inquisition  and  by  reason  of  the  act 
aforesaid  whereby  it  was  ordained  that  he  should  forfeit  all  lands  which  he 
held  on  30  December,  39  Henry  VI.  the  said  Thomas  Gill,  then  escheator 
of  the  counties  of  Devon  and  Cornwall,  took  the  premises  into  the  king's 
Iiands  and  expelled  the  said  supplicant,  and  afterwards  by  letters  patent 
dated  23  November,  4  Edward  IV.  the  king  granted  the  premises  to 
Thomas  Fulford,  knight,  and  his  heirs  and  assigns,  but  the  said  Baldwin 
was  never  seised  of  the  said  manor  or  any  parcel  thereof,  justice  may  be 
done.  By  p.s. 


59 


7  EDWARD  IV.— Part  III. 


j^^gg  Membrane  17. 

Feb.  18.  Grant  to  Victor  Compagni  de  Ulterris,  born  in  the  parts  of  Florence,  and 
Coventry,     his  offspring  of  letters  of  denization. 

By  p.s.  [2364]  and  for  1  mark  paid  in  the  hanaper. 

1467. 

Dec.  27.  Grant  to  Richard  Wydevile,  earl  Revcrs,  constable  and  treasurer  of 
Dogmersfield.  England,  Thomas  Ponnde,  John  Rogers,  William  Kerver  and  Roger 
Appulton,  in  repayment  of  the  sum  of  2,000/.  due  to  them  from  the 
king,  as  appears  in  the  receipt  of  the  Exchequer,  tiiat  they  or  their 
executors  after  their  decease  or  tiieir  factors  or  attorneys  may  receive  all 
moneys,  rents,'pi  ofits  and  emoluments  arising  from  a  moiety  of  all  wardships, 
marriages,  reliefs,  escheats,  forfeitures,  custodies  of  heirs  and  temporalities 
of  archbishoprics  and  otiier  ecclesiastical  benefices,  and  all  moneys  arising 
from  a  moiety  of  all  customs  and  subsidies,  the  great  and  petty  custom  an(l 
the  subsidy  of  the  3*.  in  the  tun  and  the  12c/.  in  the  pound  from  goods  and 
merchandise  in  the  ports  of  London,  Sufham))ton,  Sandwich,  Bristol, 
Exeter,  Dcrtemuth,  Fowey,  Plymmouth,  and  Pole,  and  may  heard,  clack 
and  clean  wools  and  ship  sacks  and  Iwlcs  of  wool,  woollen  cloths  and 
pieces  of  tin  and  lead  in  the  said  ports  and  take  tlie  wools  by  the  straits  of 
Marrok  and  the  woollen  cloths,  tin  and  lead  to  any  foreign  parts  and  sliip 
other  merchandise  from  foreign  parts  to  the  said  polls  quit  of  customs  and 
subsidies  at  the  rate  of  4  marks  on  each  sack  of  wool  and  a  moiety  of  tlie 
customs  and  subsidies  on  the  other  merchandise,  until  they  shall  thus  \)c 
fully  satisfied  of  the  said  2,000/.  Jiy  p.s. 


Membrane  16, 

Nov.  4.  Grant  to  Thomas  Yonge,  one  of  the  justices  of  the  Common  Bench,  for 
Westminster,  the  better  maintenance  of  his  estate,  of  110  marks  yearly  at  the  hands  of 
the  keeper  of  the  hanaper  or  the  cuetomers  in  the  ports  of  London,  Bristol 
and  Kyngeston  on  Hull,  according  to  the  form  of  an  act  in  Parhament  at 
Westminster,  18  Henry  VI.  and  106s.  II and  the  sixth  part  of  ^d.  at 
Christmas  for  a  robe  with  fur  and  66s.  6d.  at  Whitsuntide  for  a  robe  with 
lining. 

Nov.  9.  Grant  to  the  king's  .^Jcrvant  John  Don,  one  of  the  enquires  of  the  body, 
Westminster,  and  Elizabeth  his  wife  and  the  heirs  male  of  his  body,  for  his  good  service 
to  the  king's  father  Richard,  late  duke  of  York,  in  England,  France  and 
Ireland  and  to  the  king  in  battle  against  Henry  VI.  and  Jasper,  carl  of 
Pembroke,  and  James,  earl  of  Wiltshire,  and  otiier  relieis,  of  the  castle, 
town,  manor  and  lordship  of  Telagharn  a/ias  Taiaghai  n  n/ias  Lagharn, 
CO,  Caermarthen,  in  South  Wales  and  all  lands,  rents,  reversions,  services 
and  possessions  in  Telagharn  with  members  in  South  Wales  and  the 
marches  of  which  .Tames,  late  earl  of  Wiltsliire,  attainted  of  high  treason 
by  virtue  of  an  act  in  Parliament  at  Westminster,  4  November, 
1  Edward  IV,  was  seised  in  his  demesne  as  of  fee  on  4  Marcli, 
1  Edward  IV.  or  the  said  4  November,  with  all  franchises,  liberties, 
courts,  customs,  jurisdictions,  profits,  emoluments,  leets,  views  of  frank- 
pledge, chattels  of  felons  and  fugitives,  waifs,  strays,  cantreds,  commotes, 
hundreds,  faiis,  markets,  parks,  warrens,  stews,  knights'  fees,  services, 


60 


CALENDAR  OP  PATENT  ROLLS. 


1467.  Membrane  16 — cont. 

rents,  wards,  marriages,  reliefs,  escheats,  advowsons,  wreck  of  sea,  treasure 
trove  and  other  commodities,  as  fully  as  the  said  earl  held  the  same  as 
appears  by  any  inquisition  taken  before  Henry  ap  Griffith,  John  Milewater, 
esquires,  Hugh  Hunteley  and  Thomas  Brigge,  by  virtue  of  letters  patent, 
at  Kermerdyn  in  South  Wales  on  Monday,  17  June,  ,5  Edward  IV.  or 
before  John  Harper,  escheator  in  the  county  of  Hereford  and  the  marches 
of  Wales  adjacent,  by  virtue  of  letters  patent,  at  Pembrugge,  co.  Hereford, 
on  Saturday,  15  June,  5  Edward  IV.  to  hold  by  the  services  of  as  many 
knights'  fees  and  as  many  other  rents  and  services  as  they  were  held  by 
before  the  first  day  of  March,  1  Edward  IV.  Grant  also  to  them  as  above 
of  the  lordships  and  manors  of  Pybour  and  Clogyn  with  all  members  and 
appurtenances  in  South  Wales  with  all  rights,  franchises,  liberties,  profits, 
courts,  leets,  views  of  frank-pledge,  chattels  of  felons  and  fugitives,  waifs, 
strays,  warrens,  stews,  knights'  fees,  advowsons,  wards,  marriages,  reliefs, 
escheats  and  other  profits.  Grant  also  to  the  said  John  and  Elizabeth  of 
all  farms,  rents  and  profits  from  the  above  from  the  said  4  March,  and 
pardon  to  them  of  all  debts  and  accounts  due  to  the  king  for  the  issues  or 
profits  of  the  premises  or  the  manors  of  Russheton,  Stanewig,  Ryngsted, 
Great  Brampton  and  Great  Houghton,  co.  Northampton,  or  any  lands  and 
possessions  in  the  same  county  in  the  king's  hands  by  the  forfeiture  of 
Thomas  Tresham,  knight,  or  any  surplusage,  for  20*,  \d.  to  be  paid  for  fine 
or  fee.  By  p.s. 

Membrane  15. 

May  9.  General  pardon  to  John  Dynhara  late  of  Notewill,  co.  Devon,  esquire, 
Westminster.  Richard  Forster  of  Walkeliampton,  co.  Devon,  '  yoman,'  John  Hede  late  of 
Mewyni,  co.  Devon,  'yoman,'  John  Holbeme  the  younger  late  of  Holbeme, 
CO.  Devon,  '  gentilman,'  John  Maunsell  late  of  Newton  Busshell,  co.  Devon, 
'yoman,'  Thomas  Bastard  late  of  Otery  St.  Mary,  co.  Devon,  'yoman,' 
Edward  Morell  late  of  Preston,  co.  Devon,  '  yoman,'  Andrew  Hillersdon 
late  of  Lammeshede,  co.  Devon,  '  gentilman,'  John  Scobehill  alias  ClyfF 
late  of  Northpole,  co.  Devon,  'yoman,'  William  Martyn  late  of  Brent,  co. 
Devon,  *  yoman,'  Thomas  Martyn  late  of  the  same,  '  yoman,'  Thomas  Harry 
late  of  the  same,  '  yoman,'  John  Wylstre  late  of  Exmouth,  co.  Devon, 
'  yoman,'  Henry  Wylstre  late  of  the  same,  '  yoman,'  John  Shilston  late  of 
Totnes,  co.  Devon,  '  gentilman,*  William  Shilston  late  of  Bratton,  co.  Devon, 
'gentilman,'  Thomas  Holond  late  of  Copsam,  co.  Devon,  '  gentilman,'  .John 
Asshe  late  of  Clystsom.son,  co.  Devon,  'gentilman,'  Richard  Duke  late  of 
Exeter,  co  Devon,  'yoman,'  John  Lewys  late  of  the  same,  'yoman,'  John 
Tope  late  of  ExUond,  co.  Devon,  '  yoman,'  William  Forster  late  of  Dert- 
mouth,  CO.  Devon,  '  marchaunt,'  John  Wliite  late  of  the  same,  '  yoman,' 
Thomas  Luke  late  of  the  same,  '  yoman,'  Richard  Fortescu  late  of  Fale 
Pitte,  CO.  Devon,  '  gentilman,'  Philip  Lambe  late  of  Dertmouth,  '  yoman,' 
William  Whitchurche  late  of  Nuton  Busshell,  'yoman,'  Robert  Kerver 
late  of  the  same,  '  yoman,'  Maurice  Nuton  late  of  the  same,  '  yoman,'  John 
Mune  late  of  the  same,  '  yoman,'  Thomas  Prendergist  late  of  Yealmpton, 
CO.  Devon,  'yoman,'  William  Ford  late  of  Clyfton,  co.  Devon  'yoman,' 
William  atte  Forde  late  of  Plymptre,  co.  Devon,  '  gentilman,'  Thomas 
Avenell  late  of  Notewyll,  '  yoman,'  Nicholas  Whityng  late  of  Gydsham, 
CO.  Devon,  'gentilman,'  John  WiUiam  late  of  Sydbury,  co.  Devon,  '  glover,' 
Peter  Abbot  late  of  the  same,  'smyth,'  John  Morys  late  of  Wodbury,  co. 
Devon,  '  yoman,'  Thomas  Flessheyr  late  of  the  same,  '  yoman,'  William 
Broun  late  of  the  same,  '  yoman,'  John  Tubbe  late  of  Exmouth,  '  yoman,' 
John  Seinclere  late  of  Budlegh,  co.  Devon,  '  gentilman,'  William  Hardyng 
late  of  Otery  St.  Mary,  '  yoman,'  John  Clody  late  of  the  same,  '  yoman/ 
William  Blakemore  late  of  the  same,  '  yoman,'  Thomas  Lane  late  of  the 


7  EDWARD  IV.— Part  lit. 


Gl 


1467.  Membrane  15 — cont. 

same,  'yoman,'  William  Stylyng  late  of  Tippetou,  co.  Devon,  *yoman,' 
John  Benet  late  of  Fenue,  co.  Devon,  '  yoman,'  Christopher  Faryngdon 
late  of  Faryngdon,  co.  Devon,  '  gentilman,'  Thomas  Lane  late  of 
Notewill,  'yoman,'  John  Lodewyll  late  of  Otery  St.  Mary,  'yoman,' 
William  Brace  late  of  Braunscomb,  co.  Devon,  '  yoman,'  Ilichard 
Antony  late  of  Sampford  Pevereli,  co.  Devon,  '  yoman,'  John  Melbury  late 
of  Honyton,  co.  Devon,  '  yoman,'  Henry  Pyle  late  of  Awlyscombe,  co. 
Devon,  'yoman,'  William  Shutehill  alias  Sperlyng  late  of  Hirdon,  co. 
Devon, 'yoman,' John  More  of  Whitechurch,  co.  Devon,  'yoman,'  John 
•  Frenship  of  Horebrigge,  co.  Devon,  'yoman,'  William  Cole  of  Sampford 
Courteney,  co.  Devon,  'yoman,'  and  John  Soper  of  South  Moltou,  co. 
Devon,  '  yoman,'  of  all  offences  against  any  statute  touching  liveries  of 
cloths  and  hoods  or  other  statutes  committed  by  them  before  Christmas  last, 
for  20*.  Ad.  only  paid  in  the  hanaper.  By  p.s.  [2076.] 

Grant  to  Walter  Blount,  knight,  lord  Mountjoye,  for  400  marks  paid 
to  the  king,  of  the  custody  of  all  manors,  lands  and  possessions  late  of 
Thomas  Blount,  esquire,  tenant  in  chief,  during  the  minority  of  Robert  his 
son  and  heir,  vi^itli  the  marriage  of  the  heir  without  disparagement,  and  so 
from  heir  to  heir.  By  bill  of  the  treasurer. 

The  like  to  Robert  Clavenger,  yeoman  of  the  crown,  for  20/.  paid  to  the 
king,  of  tlie  custody  of  all  manors,  lands  and  possessions  late  of  William 
Petyte  of  the  county  of  Worcester,  '  gentilman,'  tenant  in  chief,  during  the 
minority  of  William  his  son  and  heir,  with  the  marriage  of  the  heir  without 
di.sparagement,  and  so  from  lieir  to  heir,  supporting  all  charges. 

By  bill  of  the  treasurer. 

Grant  to  the  men,  tenants,  inhabitants  and  residents  of  the  honours  of 
Boulogne,  Peverel  and  Hagnet  in  the  counties  of  Norfolk,  Suffolk,  Essex, 
Hertford,  Cambridge  and  Surrey  and  the  liberties  of  the  same,  known 
to  be  of  the  ancient  demesne  of  the  crown,  that  they  may  carry  their 
merchandise,  goods  and  chattels  freely  through  the  realm  of  England 
without  prcst  of  toll,  stallage,  cheminage,  murage,  pavage,  poutago,  passage, 
quayage,  lastage,  tallage,  carriage  and  terrage,  in  accordance  with  ancient 
custom.  By  p.s. 

Nov.  13.  General  pardon  to  John  Crofton  late  of  Casebroke  in  the  Isle  of  Wiglit, 
Westminster,  co.  Southampton,  '  gentilman.'  By  p.s. 


1468. 

Feb.  13. 
Coventry. 


Feb.  18. 
Coventry. 


1467. 

Dec.  13. 
Windsor. 


Membrane  14. 

Nov.  27.  Confirmation  during  good  behaviour  to  John  Durem  of  the  office  of  one 
Westminster,  of  the  barons  of  the  Exchequer,  to  whicii  he  was  appointed  during 
pleasure  by  letters  patent  dated  8  April,  1  Edward  IV.  ;  receiving  the 
accustomed  fees  at  the  receipt  of  the  Exchequer  and  a  winter  vesture  with 
fur  at  Christmas  and  a  summer  vesture  with  lining  at  VVhitiuntide  at  the 
great  wardrobe.  By  p.s. 

Dec.  5.  General  pardon  to  Gilbert  Polwhenererwartha  of  Polwenererwartha,  co. 
Bogmersfield.  Cornwall,  '  taillor,'  of  all  offences  committed  by  him  before  26  November. 

By  p.s. 

1468. 

Jan.  18.        Grant  for  life  to  William  Goddyerc,  one  of  the  king's  trumpeters,  of 
Westminster.  10  marks  yearly  from  Michaelmas,  6  Edward  IV.  from  the  issues  of  the 
county  of  Lincoln.  By  p.s. 

Mandate  in  pursuance  to  the  sheriff  of  Lincoln. 


62 


CALENDAR  OF  PATENT  ROLLS. 


2/Jj(3g  Membrane  14 — cont. 

Jan.  27.  Grant  to  William  Herbert,  knight,  lord  Herbert,  and  his  executors  and 
Westminster,  assigns,  in  lieu  of  a  like  grant  to  him  by  letters  patent  dated  2'6  June 
(see  p.  25),  surrendered  because  invalid,  of  the  custody  of  all  honours, 
castles,  lordships,  manors,  lands,  rents,  services  and  possessions  with 
advowsons,  knights'  fees,  franchises,  liberties,  warrens,  courts  leet  and 
other  commodities  of  Richard  Grey,  knight,  late  lord  of  Powys,  deceased, 
tenant  in  chief,  during  the  minority  of  John  his  son  and  heir  and  the 
custody  and  marriage  of  the  latter  without  disparagement,  and  so  from 
heir  to  heir,  finding  a  competent  sustenance  for  him.  By  p.s. 

1467. 

Oct.  1.3.  Licence  for  William  Canyngis,  merchant  of  Bristol,  to  found  a  chantry 
Westminster,  of  one  chaplain  to  celebrate  divine  service  daily  at  the  altar  of  St.  George 
in  the  church  of  St.  Mary  RedeclifF,  Bristol,  for  the  good  estate  of  the 
king  and  his  consort  Elizabeth,  queen  of  England,  and  the  said  William 
and  for  their  souls  after  death  and  the  soul  of  Joan  late  the  wife  of  the 
said  William,  to  be  called  the  chantry  of  William  Canyngis,  merchant  of 
Bristol ;  and  for  the  alienation  in  mortmain  by  him  to  the  said  chaplain, 
after  inquisition,  of  lands  and  other  possessions,  not  held  in  chiefs  to  the 
value  of  10/.  yearly.  By  K.  for  20/.  paid  in  the  hanaper. 

Memorandum. — On  14  April,  8  Edward  IV.  the  said  William  acquired 
a  yearly  rent  of  lOl.from  tJiirteen  messuages  and  two  tofts  in  Bristol  in 
fidl  satisfaction. 

1468. 

Feb.  5.         General   pardon   to  Robert  Knyfton  late  of  Marcaston,  co.  Derby, 
Westminster.  '  gentilman,'  alias  late  of  Dulcotes,  co.  Nottingham,  of  all  offences  committed 
by  him  before  1  November,  By  p.s. 

Feb.  14.  Confirmation  of  letters  patent  of  the  king's  father  Richard,  duke  of  York, 
Coventry,  dated  at  London,  1  January,  29  Henry  VI.  granting  to  his  servant  Roger 
Ree,  esquire,  usher  of  his  chamber,  for  life,  in  consideration  of  his  service 
to  him  in  France,  England  and  Ireland,  the  hundred  of  Berstaple,  co.  Essex, 
with  all  rights,  fines,  amercements,  wreck  of  sea  and  other  emoluments  and 
commodities  ;  and  grant  of  the  same  to  him  and  Roger  Ree  and  William 
Ree  his  sons  for  life  from  4  March,  1  Edward  IV.  By  p.s. 

Yacated  by  surrender  and  cancelled,  because  the  king  granted  the 
same  to  the  said  Roger  Ree  the  father  by  other  letters  patent  on  31  May, 
15  Edward  IV. 


14g'7.  Membrane  13. 

July  17.  Grant  in  frank  almoin  to  William  Westbury,  the  provost,  and  the 
Windsor,  college  of  St.  Mary,  Eton  by  Windsor,  co.  Buckingham,  so  that  they  may 
pray  for  the  good  estate  of  the  king  and  quefen  Elizabeth,  his  consort,  and 
for  their  souls  after  death,  of  the  hospital  or  house  of  St.  John  the 
Baptist,  Dorchestre,  co.  Dorset,  with  its  rights  and  appurtenances,  a  yearly 
farm  or  pension  of  20*.  which  the  priors  of  Groldclive  used  to  pay 
from  an  ancient  impost  due  to  the  chief  house  of  the  priory  beyond 
seas,  26Z.  13.'>.  4</.  yearly  which  the  prior  of  Farlegli  used  to  pay  to  the 
nuns  of  Martiguy  for  the  farm  and  pension  of  the  m.'inors  of  Weiby, 
Welleby  and  Navenby,  co.  Lincoln,  Slaghtneford  and  Alinton,  co.  Wilts, 
11/.  65.  8rf.  in  addition  from  the  same  farm  and  pension,  a  farm,  pension  or 
rent  of  40s.  yearly  from  the  impost  of  the  priory  of  Tykford  by  Neweport 
PayneU,  co.  Buckingham,  a  farm,  pension  or  rent  of  4/.  yearly  from  the 
ancient  impost  of  the  alien  priory  of  Folkestone,  co.  Kent,  the  manor  or 
priory  of  Hanginglangford,  co.  Wilts,  formerly  pertaining  to  the  alien 
deanery  of  Morteigue,  the  alien  priory  of  Brimmesfeld,  co.  Gloucester,  and 


7  EDWARD  IV.— Part  III. 


63 


j467.  Membrane  13 — cont. 

all  lands,  rents  and  services  in  Middelton,  co.  Wilts,  sometime  pertaining  to  it, 
all  lands  in  Endeston,  co.  Somerset,  formerly  of  the  alien  priory  of  St.  Sever, 
the  alien  priory  of  Modliury,  co.  Devon,  with  its  members  and  appurtenances, 
the  alien  priory  of  Cowyke,  co.  Devon,  with  all  members,  lands,  rents,  services, 
advowsons,  pensions,  portions,  imposts,  tenths,  oblations,  fruits  and  emolu- 
ments belonging  to  it,  the  priory  or  manor  of  Blakcnham,  c-o.  Suffolk, 
'sometime  parcel  of  the  iilien  priory  of  Okebourne,  the  manor  or  alien  priory 
of  Povington  with  all  lands,  rents,  services,  pensions  and  portions  in 
Melbornbeke  and  Charleton,  co.  Dorset,  and  all  other  lands,  rents  and 
services  pertaiuing  to  it,  the  priory  of  St.  Helen  in  the  Isle  of  Wight, 
CO.  Southampton,  a  yearly  farm,  rent  or  pension  of  12  marks  which  the 
prior  of  Montacute  and  his  successors  are  bound  to  render  to  the  king  from 
an  ancient  impost  lately  pertaining  to  the  chief  house  of  the  priory  beyond 
seas,  all  lands,  rents  and  services  in  Northmundam,  Compton  and  Wolegli, 
cos.  Sussex  and  Southampton,  sometime  of  the  abbot  of  Lucerne  in 
Normandy,  a  water-mill  at  Goryng,  co.  Oxford,  sometime  parcel  of  the 
aUen  priory  of  Okebourne,  and  ihe  manor  of  Wedonbeke,  co.  Northampton, 
sometime  parcel  of  the  same  priory,  to  hold  the  above  with  knights'  fee.s 
and  advowsons,  and  the  rev  ersion  of  the  hospital  of  St.  James  by  West- 
minster, in  the  diocese  of  London,  and  the  perpetual  custody  of  the  same 
with  all  rights  and  appurtenances  when  it  shall  become  void  by  the  death, 
cession  or  resignation  of  Roger  Malmesbury,  king's  clerk,  now  perpetual 
warden.  By  p.s. 

Nov.  14.        Appointment,  during  good  behaviour,  of  Brian  Rouclyfif  as  third  baron 
Westminster,  of  the  Exchequer,  receiving  the  fees,  wages,  regards  and  vestures  specified 
in  letters  patent  dated  8  May,  1  PJdward  IV.  by  which  he  was  appointed  to 
the  same  office,  although  the  duration  of  those  letters  was  limited  to  the 
king'.s  will  by  authority  of  Parliament,  3  Edward  IV.  By  K. 


Membrane  12 — 10. 

Oct.  10.  Inspex'imus  and  confirmation  to  the  president  and  scholars  of  the  college 
VVestniiuster.  of  St.  Mary  Magdalen,  Oxford,  of  the  following  : — 

1.  Letters  patent  dated  12  January,   1   Richard  II.   inspecting  and 

confirming  to  the  master,  brethren  and  si.vters  of  the  hospital  of 
St.  John  without  the  east  gate  of  Oxford  a  charter  dated  at 
Westminster,  14  March,  10  Edward  III.  [Chnrttr  Roll,  10  Ed- 
ward III.  No.  50],  inspecting  anil  conlirming  with  addition.s  a 
charter  dated  at  Nottingham,  7  August,  11  Edward  If.  inspecting 
and  confirming  the  following  : — 

(1.)  A  charter    dated   at   Oxford,   12  July,   15    Ileni-y  III. 

[Charter  Roll,  lo  Hctiry  III.  m.  6.] 
(2.)  A  charter  dated  at  Reading,  8  November,  31  Henry  III. 

[Charter  Roll,  31  Hciiri/  II L  m.  14.] 
(3.)  A  charter  dated  at  Marlborough,  7  September,  32  Henry  IIT. 

[Charter  Roll,  32  Henri/  III.  in.  2.] 
(4.)  A  charter  dated  at  Westminster,  12  June,  13  Edward  I. 
[Charier  Roll,  13  Edward  I.  \o.  48]  inspecting  and  confirming 
a  charter  dated  at  Northampton,  8  June,  50  Henry  III. 

2.  Letters    patent   dated   27  October,  35  Henry    VI.   granting  the 

patronage  or  advowson  of  the  hospital  to  William,  bishop  of 
Winchester,  and  granting  licence  tor  the  master  and  brethren  of 
the  hospital  to  grant  the  hospital  and  all  its  possessions  to  the 
president  and  scholars  of  the  hall  of  St.  Mary  Magdalen  iu  the 
University  of  Oxford. 


61: 


CALENDAR  OF  PATENT  ROLLS. 


24g7.  Membranes  12 — 10 — cont. 

3.  Letters  patent  dated  13  October,  36  Henry  VI.  reciting  that,  iu 
accordance  witli  the  above  letters  patent,  the  said  master  and 
brethren  granted  the  said  hospital  and  its  possessions  to  the 
president  and  scholars  of  ihe  said  hall  by  a  writing  dated  5  July, 
and  granting  licence  for  the  said  bishop  to  form  the  hospital  into 
a  secular  college  of  a  president  and  scholars,  to  be  called  the 
college  of  St.  Mary  Magdalen  or  '  Maudeleyn  College,'  and  for  the 
president  and  scholars  of  the  said  hall  to  grant  the  hospital  and 
its  possessions  to  the  president  and  scholars  of  the  said  college, 
and  for  the  latter  to  acquire  in  mortmain  lands  and  possessions 
to  the  value  of  500/.  yearly. 

By  K.  and  for  11/.  paid  in  the  hanaper. 

Membranes  9  and  8. 

July  7.  Grant  for  life  to  the  king's  consort  Elizabeth,  queen  of  England,  from 
Westminster.  Easter  last,  of  divers  rents  and  lands  {as  in  Patent  Roll  5  Edward  IV. 

Part  II.  Membranes  8  and  7)  and  the  manors  and  lordships  of  Shene, 
Petyrshara  and  Hamme,  co.  Surrey,  with  the  park  and  warren  of  the  manor 
of  Shene  and  all  appurtenances,  the  manor  and  lordship  of  Plesaunce,  alias 
Grenewych,  co.  Kent,  late  of  Humphrey,  duke  of  Gloucester,  deceased,  and 
a  messuage,  inn  or  tenement  in  London,  called  '  Ormondes  Inne,'  late  of 
James,  earl  of  Wiltshire,  attainted  of  high  treason.  [Rolls  of  Parliament, 
V.  625.]  By  K. 


1468. 
Feb.  20. 

Westminster. 


Feb.  II. 

Westminster. 


Membrane  8 — cont. 

Grant  to  William,  the  abbot,  and  the  convent  of  St.  Mary's,  Stonley, 
that  they  and  their  successors  shall  not  be  made  collectors  of  tenths,  taxes, 
tallages,  or  other  quota  or  subsidies  granted  to  the  king  and  his  successors, 
and  if  they  be  deputed  to  collect  the  same  they  shall  he  released  by  the 
exhibition  of  these  presents  and  the  collection  assigned  to  the  sheriff  of 
Warwick ;  and  licence  for  the  acquisition  in  mortmain  by  them  after 
inquisition  of  lands,  tenements  and  rents,  not  held  in  chief,  to  the  value  of 
40  marks  yearly.  By  K.  and  for  50/.  paid  in  the  hanaper. 

Memo7-andam. —  On  29  October,  13  Edward  IV.  they  acquired  from 
John  Hug  ford,  esquire,  and  Thomas  JValdyene  ten  messuages,  two  carucates 
and  20  acres  of  land,  20  acres  of  meadow,  12  acres  of  wood,  V2s.  of  rent,  a 
rent  of  a  pound  of  pepper  and  a  red  rose,  and  a  moiety  of  a  fishery  in 
the  river  Aven  in  ylsshe,  Nuneton  and  Radway,  and  from  John  Spary, 
clerk,  five  messuages,  80  acres  of  land,  8  acres  of  meadow  and  4  acres  of 
pasture  in  Cobinton,  5s.  of  rent  in  Knyghtcote  and  Northend,  and  3  acres  of 
land  and  2  acres  of  meadow  in  Napton  on  the  Hill,  co.  Warwick,  not  held 
in  chief,  to  the  value  of  10  marks  yearly,  in  part  satisfaction. 

Grant  for  life  to  Edmund  Childerhous  and  the  king's  servitor  William 
Alberd,  from  Michaelmas  last,  of  the  office  of  the  king's  artillery  within 
the  town  of  Calais,  with  such  houses,  wages,  fees  and  profits  as  Patrick 
Biker,  late  artiller,  had  for  himself  and  one  yeoman  under  him  and  Custacius, 
likewise  late  artiller,  had  in  the  times  of  Edward  III.  and  Richard  II.;  in 
lieu  of  a  like  grant  to  tlie  said  Edmund  by  letters  patent  dated  12  April, 

I  Edward  IV.  surrendered.  By  p.s. 

Vacated  by  surrender  and  cancelled,  because  the  king  granted  the 
office  for  life  to  John  Howbrake  by  other  letters  patent  on  31  July, 

II  Edward  IV. 


7  EDWARD  IV.— Part  IIT. 


65 


1468. 
Feb.  18. 
Coventry. 


Jan.  28. 

Westminster. 


1467. 

July  25. 


Membrane  7. 

Pardon  to  Humphrey  Stafford,  lord  Stafford  of  Southewyke,  knight,  of  his 
trespass  in  acquiring  to  himself  and  his  heirs  and  assigns  from  John,  the  prior, 
and  the  convent  of  the  church  of  SS.  Peter  and  Paul,  Bath,  which  is  of  the 
king's  patronage,  a  close  of  land  in  Donstar  called  '  le  Kynche  '*  lying  by 
the  chapel  of  St.  Michael  of  Alcombe  on  the  east,  and  entering  thereon 
without  licence,  and  grant  that  he  may  hold  the  same  for  life  ;  and  pardon 
to  him  of  all  fines,  amercements,  issues,  forfeitures,  debts,  accounts  and 
arrears  due  to  the  king  from  him  as  late  sheriff  of  Somerset  and  Dorset,  or 
as  appointed  with  others  to  enquire  concerning  the  lands  and  possessions 
held  by  Robert  Hungerford,  knight,  late  lord  of  Hungerford  and  Aloleyns, 
or  as  appointed  with  Thomas  Clemens,  John  Broke,  Thomas  Aleyn,  Geoffrey 
Kydwelly,  William  Manwennek  and  William  Hastyuges,  knight,  by  letters 
patent  dated  8  July,  2  Edward  IV.  assessors  to  demise  certain  lands  of  the 
duchy  of  Cornwall,  or  as  appointed  with  Thomas  Gille  the  younger,  Lite 
escheator  of  the  counties  of  Somerset  and  Dorset,  to  take  into  the  king's  hands 
all  manors  and  lands  of  Henry,  duke  of  Exeter,  Henry,  duke  of  Somerset, 
Thomas,  earl  of  Devon,  James,  earl  of  Wiltshire,  Henry,  earl  of  Northum- 
berland, James  Luterell,  knight,  and  Alexander  Hody,  knigiit,  and  all  their 
goods  and  chattels  within  the  same  counties,  or  as  appointed  with  others  to 
enquire  into  certain  treasons,  insurrections,  rebellions,  felonies,  riots,  and 
other  offences  in  the  counties  of  Southampton,  Somerset,  Dorset,  Devon, 
Wilts,  Oxford  and  Gloucester  and  tlie  towns  of  Bristol  and  South- 
ampton, or  as  appointed  with  others  to  enquire  into  certain  treasons, 
insurrections,  rebellions  and  felonies  committed  within  the  county  of 
Southampton  by  Thomas  Morys  late  of  Portesmouth,  co.  Southampton, 
'yoman,'  and  Edmund  Gardegrave  late  of  Waltham,  co.  Southampton,  or 
as  one  of  the  tenants  of  the  lands  late  of  Thomas  Courtenay,  late  earl  of 
Devon,  son  and  heir  of  Thomas,  earl  of  Devon,  which  William  Faucomberge, 
late  earl  of  Kent,  held.  By  p.s.  [2363.] 

Restitution  of  the  temporalities  of  the  priory  of  Preterwell,  of  the 
Cluuiac  order,  to  Hugh,  whom  Thomas,  prior  of  the  monastery  of 
St.  Pancras,  Lewes,  of  the  same  order,  in  the  diocese  of  Chichester,  has 
appointed  prior.  By  p.s. 


Grant  to  Emanuel  Sophianus,  knight,  a  Greek,  born  in  the  Peloponnesus, 
Westminster,  and  the  heirs  of  his  body,  of  letters  of  denization. 

By  p.s.  and  lor  20*.  paid  in  the  hanaper. 


Membraxe  6. 

July  6.  Whereas  the  king  understands  by  a  supplication  of  Alice,  duchess  of 
Westminster.  Suffolk,  that  she  held  the  manor  of  Miclielhampton  for  life  with  portions, 
pensions,  knights'  fees  and  advowsoiis  without  impeachment  of  waste  by 
pretext  of  a  grant  by  Henry  V.  to  John  Pliilippes,  knight,  and  the  said 
Alice,  then  his  wife,  and  tlic  heirs  of  their  bodies,  and  the  said  John 
died  without  issue  between  himself  and  her,  and  she  held  the  manors  of 
Neddyng  and  Kctilbarston  by  grant  of  the  said  king  to  them  as  above,  and 
after  the  death  of  ihe  said  Joiin  Henry  VI.  granted  the  reversion  of  these 
latter  manors  on  her  death  to  William,  late  duke  of  Suffolk,  and  herself  then 
his  wife,  and  the  heirs  of  their  bodies,  and  she  also  held  the  manor  and 
lordship  of  (Jrobury  alias  Leyglilon  Busard  with  all  lands,  portions, 
pensions,  knights'  fees  and  advowsons  by  pretext  of  a  grant  of  Henry  V.  to 
the  said  John  and  his  heirs,  and  the  said  -lolin  enfeoffed  William  Philippes, 
knight,  Thomas  Chaucere,  esqiure,  Thomas  Dereham,  John  Thrognierton 
and  John  Wadde,  all  now  deceased,  who  granted  the  same  to  him  and  Alice 


J  961S6. 


Rectius  Lynchc,  as  in  p.s. 


E 


66 


CALENDAR  OF  PATENT  ROLLS. 


2407.  Membrane  6 — cont. 

his  wife  aud  the  heirs  of  their  bodies,  and  she  held  to  herself  and  her  heirs, 
3  messuages,  3  hides,  4^  virgates  and  104  acres  of  laud  in  Estworldhain 
and  Nutes  which  John  de  Venutz  lately  held  in  chief,  rendering  IOO5. 
yearly,  2  acres  of  laud  in  Worelham  alias  Worldham  which  the  sanae  John 
Venutz  held  in  chief  by  the  service  of  rendering  \2d.  yearly,  29  acres  and 
3  roods  of  land  under  the  wood  of  Benesworth  which  Peter  de  Worldham 
held  in  chief  by  the  service  of  rendering  9s.  11c?.  yearly,  one  acre  of  land  by 
the  park  of  Estworldham  alias  Worldham  which  the  said  John  Venutz 
lately  held,  in  chief  by  the  service  of  rendering  Ad.  yearly,  and  II  acres, 
20  perches,  half  an  acre  and  one  rood  of  land  in  the  forest  of  Wolmer 
imparked  aud  enclosed  in  the  said  park  and  all  the  said  park,  which  Thomas 
Chaucer  lately  had  and  occupied  aud  which  Henry  VI.  granted  to  the  said 
duke  and  Alice,  by  the  names  of  William  de  la  Pole,  earl  of  Suffolk,  and 
Alice  his  wife,  and  their  heirs  and  assigns,  and  whereas  all  the  premises 
came  into  the  king's  hands  by  virtue  of  an  act  of  Parliament  at  West- 
minster, 1  Edward  IV. ;  the  king  hereby  grants  all  the  premises  to  her,  to 
hold  severally  from  4  March,  1  Edward  IV.  in  the  manners  specified  above. 

By  p.s. 

Nov,  25.  Grant  to  the  king's  servant  Peter  Curteys  and  the  heirs  male  of  his  body 
Westmiuster.  of  a  messuage  in  the  high  street  of  the  town  of  Leicester  by  the  south  gate, 
in  the  king's  hands  by  reason  of  the  forfeiture  of  Edward  Digby,  esquire, 
convicted  of  high  treason  in  Parliament  at  Westminster,  I  Edward  IV. 
worth  135.  Ad.  yearly,  to  hold  by  the  services  of  as  many  knights'  fees  and 
as  many  other  rents  and  services  as  it  was  held  by  before  4  March, 
1  Edward  IV.  other  grants  to  the  said  Peter  and  Alice  Russell  notwith- 
standing. By  p.s. 

1468. 

Feb.  1.  Grant  for  life  to  the  king's  servant  Richard  Gotelee,  one  of  the  yeomen 
Westminster,  of  the  crown,  of  Qd,  daily  at  the  receipt  of  the  Exchequer.  By  p.s. 


1467.  Membrane  5. 

July  25.  Whereas  divers  alien  priories,  houses  and  religious  places  in  England 
Westminster,  and  Wales  were  so  devastated  aud  destroyed  by  the  frequent  removals  of 
their  priors  and  occupants  and  by  divers  secular  persons  and  other  farmers 
after  they  were  granted  by  Henry  VI.  in  Parliament  at  Bury  St.  Edmunds, 
25  Henry  VI.  to  the  college  of  Eton  that  divine  worshipj  regular  observances 
and  hospitalities  and  other  works  of  piety  ceased  there  and  the  pious  vows  of 
the  founders  were  defrauded,  and  for  this  reason  by  the  assent  of  the  council 
in  Parliament  at  Westminster,  4  November,  1  Edwai-d  IV.  all  the  grants  to 
the  said  college  were  taken  back  into  the  king's  hands,  and  the  king  granted 
the  alien  prioiy  of  Derehurst,  in  the  diocese  of  Worcester,  to  WilUam 
Bokelond,  monk  of  the  monastery  of  St.  Peter,  Westminster,  of  the  order  of 
St.  Benedict,  and  now  he  unclerstauds  that  the  said  William  Bokelond, 
prior  of  Derehurst,  has  devastated  and  destroyed  all  the  fruits,  revenues  and 
emoluments  of  the  priory  and  has  sustained  no  monks  in  the  priory  except 
himself  and  one  secular  chaplain,  aud  the  king  has  taken  the  priory  back 
into  his  hands  by  authority  of  Parliament  at  Westminster,  3  June  last,  and 
the  manors  of  (ioldclyff  and  Goldre  in  Wales,  late  parcel  of  the  alien  priory 
of  Goldclylf  aud  lately  granted  by  letters  patent  to  the  abbot  and  convent 
of  the  monastery  of  St.  Mary,  Teukesbury,  in  frank  almoin,  have  likewise 
been  taken  back  into  the  king's  hand  by  authority  of  the  said  Parliament ; 
the  king  hereby  grants  in  recompence  to  John  Galeys,  the  abbot,  and  the 
convent  of  tJie  said  monastery  of  Teukesbury  the  said  priory  of  Derhurst 
with  all  the  cells  aud  manors  pertaining  to  it  or  parcel  or  members  of  the 
same,  viz.  the  manors  of  Derhurst,  Hawe,  Wolston,  Okynton,  Culne  St. 


7  EDWARD  IV.— Part  III. 


G7 


1467.  Membrane  b — cont. 

Denis,  Welneford,  Preston  and  Compton,  co.  Gloucester,  and  More  and 
Teyntou,  co.  Oxford,  with  rents  of  salt-pits  in  le  VV'yche,  co.  Worcester, 
with  all  lands,  rents,  reversions,  services,  mills,  passages,  fisheries,  woods, 
meadows,  feedings,  pastures,  villeins,  wards,  marriages,  commons,  relief's, 
courts,  views  of  frank-pledge,  liberties,  franchises,  leets,  fairs,  markets  an(I 
other  commodities  and  knights'  fees,  advowsons,  pensions,  portions,  annuities, 
tenths,  oblations,  alms  and  all  movable  goods,  to  hold  in  frank  almoin  from 

3  June  last,  and  also  the  churches  of  Derhurst  and  Okynton  with  the  chapels 
annexed,  lately  appropriated  to  the  said  priory  of  Derhurst,  with  all 
demesne  lands,  glebes,  tithes,  oblations,  portion?,  pensions  and  profits,  to 
hold  from  3  June  last  to  celebrate  divine  service  i'or  the  good  estate  of  the 
king  and  Elizabeth  his  consort  and  for  their  souls  after  death  and  the  souls 
of  the  king's  father  Richard,  late  duke  of  York,  Edmund,  late  earl  of 
Rutland,  Richard,  late  carl  of  Salisbury,  and  Thomas  Nevylle  his  son, 
Isabel,  late  countess  of  Warwick,  and  all  the  king's  subjects  killed  in 
battle  for  his  right.  And  they  shall  sustiiin  in  the  said  priory  a  prior 
removable  at  their  will  and  four  monks  and  a  secular  priest  to  celel)rate 
mass  and  other  divine  offices  and  to  pray  for  the  souls  of  the  founders  of 
the  priory  and  the  souls  aforesaid,  and  they  have  licence  when  they  please 
to  unite  and  appropriate  the  said  priory  to  their  monastery  and  to  sue  the 
pope  for  bulls  lor  the  same.  By  p.s. 

1468. 

Jan.  29.         Grant  in  frank  almoin  to  Richard,  the  prior,  and  the  convent  of  the 
Wcstiniuster.  Friars  of  the  order  of  Holy  Trinity,  Houndeslowe,  of  10/.  yearly  at  the 
Exchequer  fi'om  Easter  last,  in  lieu  of  a  grant  to  them  of  20/.  yearly  from 

4  March  then  latit  out  of  the  fee  farm  of  the  town  of  Kyngeston  on  Thames 
by  letters  patent  dated  2  November,  2  Edward  IV.  which  are  invalid 
by  force  of  an  act  in  Parliament  at  Westminster,  !)  April,  '.\  Edward  IV.  ; 
and  pardon  to  thiim  of  all  sums  of  money  received  by  them  from  the  said 
20/.  yearly  from  the  said  4  March  to  Michaeliims,  4  Edward  IV.       By  p.s. 


Membranes  4  and  3. 

1467. 

Nov.  18.        Inspeximns  and  confirmation  to  Richard,  abbot   of  Evesham,  of  the 

Westminster,  followino'  •  

o  * 

1.  A  charter  dated  at  Westminster,  10  May,  28  Edward  III.  granting  to 

the  abbot  and  convent  a  market  weekly  on  Mondays  and  a  fair 
yearly  for  four  days  at  St.  Barnabas  at  their  manor  of  Ambrcsley, 
CO.  Worcester.    [Charter  UoU,  28  Edward  III.  No.  18.] 

2.  A  charter  dated  at  Westminster,  20  January,  3  Richard  II.  [Charter 

Roll,  3  liichard  II.  No.  16],  inspecting  and  confirming  the 
following  : — 

(1.)  A  charter  dated  at  Worcester,  7  January,  3  Edward  III. 
[Charter  Roll,  3  Edioard  III.  No.  1],  inspecting  and  con- 
firming to  William,  then  abbot,  and  the  convent  the  following  : — 

a.  A  charter  dated  at  Woodstock,  3  March,  25  Henry  III. 
[Charter  Roll,  25  Jlenry  III.  m.  4],  inspecting  and  con- 
firming a  charter  of  Henry  I. 

b.  A  charter  dated  at  Winchester,  29  April,  26  Henry  III. 
to  Richard,  then  abbot  and  the  convent.  [  Charter  Roll, 
26  Henry  III  m.  3.] 

c.  A  charter  dated  at  Portsmouth,  7  May,  26  Henry  III. 
[Charter  Roll,  26  //e/try  ///.  m.  1.] 

d.  A  charter  dated  at  Westminster,  26  March,  30  Henry  III. 
[Charter  Roll,  30  Henri/  J II.  m.  9.] 

E  2 


68 


CALENDAR  OF  PATENT  ROLLS. 


]  457.  Membranes  4  and  3 — conl. 

e.  A  charter  dated  at  "Woodstock,  10  July,  35  Henry  III. 
to  Thomas,  then  abbot.  ^Charter  Boll,  35  Henry  III. 
m.  4,] 

(2)  Letters  patent  dated  26  January,  6  Edward  IIL 

For  10  marks  paid  in  the  hanaper. 


Membrane  3 — cont. 

Grant  to  John  Audeley,  knight,  lord  of  Aiideley,  and  the  heirs  male  of 
his  body,  in  lieu  of  a  like  grant  to  him  by  letters  patent  dated  2  July  last, 
surrendered,  of  the  manors  of  Shyre  and  Vacherye,  co.  Surrey,  with 
knights'  fees,  advowsons,  parks,  warrens,  stews,  farms,  rents,  liberties, 
franchises,  views  of  frank-pledge,  courts  leet  and  other  profits,  in  the  king's 
bands  by  the  forfeiture  of  James,  late  earl  of  Wiltshire,  to  hold  by  the 
services  of  as  many  knights'  fees  and  as  many  other  rents  and  services  as 
they  were  held  by  before  4  March,  1  Edward  IV.  By  K. 


Membranes  2  and  1. 

Feb.  28.  Whereas  by  an  inquisition  taken  at  the  Guildhall  in  the  parish  of 
Westminster.  St.  Lawrence,  Old  Jewry,  London,  on  26  February,  24  Henry  VI.  before 
Simon  Eyre,  then  mayor  and  escheator  of  the  city  of  London,  it  was  found 
that  John  Essex,  citizen  and  draper  of  London,  on  Thursday  after  the 
Translation  of  St.  Thomas  the  Martyr,  35  Edward  III.  in  his  last  will 
bequeathed  a  tenement  with  houses  and  gardens  in  the  parish  of 
St.  Stephen  aforesaid  (sic),  which  he  acquired  from  Sir  Hugh  Blounte  and 
Robert  Syward,  and  10*.  quit-rent  which  he  acquired  from  Philip  Gentyll 
from  a  tenement  then  of  VVdliam  Hardewyke  situated  in  the  parish  of  St. 
Lawrence,  Jewry,  on  the  death  of  Alice  his  wife  to  the  use  of  a  perpetual 
chantry  for  the  sustenance  of  a  chaplain  to  celebrate  divine  service  in  the 
said  church  of  St.  Stephen  for  the  souls  of  the  said  ^lohu  and  Alice  and 
their  fathers  and  mothers,  without  licence,  and  Adam  Godeman,  sometime 
citizen  of  London,  in  his  last  will  on  13  August  1363,  bequeathed  to  Alice 
his  wife  for  life  all  his  tenements  and  shops  on  the  north  side  of  an  alley 
called  'Church  A  ley'  in  the  parish  of  St.  Stephen  aforesaid  which  he 
acquired  from  John  Essex,  and  he  willed  that  these  tenements  with  others 
on  the  south  side  of  the  alley  should  remain  to  the  said  church  of 
St.  Stephen,  to  celebrate  divine  service  for  the  souls  of  himself  and  his 
wife  and  do  oiher  works  of  charity  according  to  the  ordinance  of  the  said 
Alice,  executrix  of  his  will,  and  John  at  More  and  John  Conyngton,  her 
co-executors,  without  licence,  and  William  Grapefige,  sometime  citizen  of 
London,  on  Monday  after  St.  Dunstan,  7  Edward  II.  in  his  last  will 
bequeathed  to  Walter  his  son  and  his  heirs  and  assigns  three  messuages  in 
the  parish  of  St.  Stephen,  Colmanstrete,  London,  by  the  name  of  all  the 
rents  and  tenements  which  he  had  in  London,  except  two  shops  with  sellers 
and  other  appurtenances  bequeathed  to  Cristina  his  daughter  and  ^  mark 
rent  bequeathed  to  William  the  clerk,  that  the  said  Walter  and  his  heirs 
and  assigns  should  sustain  a  chaplain  to  celebrate  divine  service  in  the  said 
church  for  the  soul  of  the  said  William  and  his  relations,  without  licence, 
of  which  messuages  one  called  '  le  Cok '  and  another  '  le  Garlond '  are 
situated  together  between  a  tenement  sometime  of  Stephen  Frankeleyn  on 
the  south  and  a  tenement  sometime  of  Thomas  Mestell  on  the  north,  of 
which  one  end  abuts  on  the  highway  of  Colmanstrete  towards  the  east  and 
a  garden  sometime  of  John  Hertwell,  citizen  and  mercer  of  London, 
towards  the  west,  and  the  third  messuage,  sometime  of  John  Kendale,  is 


1468. 

Feb.  14. 
Coventrj. 


7  EDWARD  IV.— Part  III. 


69 


1468. 


Membranes  2  and  1 — cont, 

situated  between  the  tenement  of  the  church  of  St.  Denis  on  the  south  and 
a  tenement  pertaining  to  the  chantry  of  John  Essex  on  the  north,  of  which 
one  end  abuts  on  the  highway  towards  the  east  and  the  other  on  the 
garden  of  Edward  Welles  towards  the  west,  and  that  the  aforesaid  premises 
were  held  of  the  late  king  in  free  burgage  and  the  said  John,  Adam  and 
Walter  died  seised  of  them  in  their  demesne  as  of  fee,  and  that  the  rectors 
and  vicars  of  the  said  church  of  St.  Stephen  up  to  the  date  of  the  inquisition 
were  seised  of  the  said  tenements  and  rent  and  a  moiety  of  the  said  two 
messuages  called  '  le  Cok  '  and  '  le  Garland '  by  virtue  of  the  said  bequests 
and  the  will  of  John  Sokelyng  alias  Sytyngbourn,  late  citizen  of  London, 
enrolled  on  Monday  before  St.  Cuthbert,  10  Henry  VI.  and  received  the 
fruits  thereof  until  the  same  were  taken  into  the  hands  of  the  late  king ; 
the  present  king,  in  consideration  of  the  pious  intentions  of  the  said  John 
Essex,  Adam  Godeman  and  John  Sokelyng,  and  because  the  said  tenements 
and  moiety  have  come  to  such  ruin  that  they  do  not  suffice  for  the  support 
of  the  chaplains  separately,  grants  to  William  Leeke,  now  vicar  of  the 
parish  church  of  St.  Stephen,  Colmanstrete,  John  Johans  and  John  Fyssh, 
wardens  of  the  goods  and  ornaments  of  the  church,  and  the  parishioners  of 
the  parish  that  they  shall  form  one  corporate  body  with  a  common  seal  and 
grants  to  thfim  in  frank  almoin  the  said  tenements,  shops,  houses,  gardens 
and  rent  for  the  support  of  a  chaplain  ?o  celebrate  divine  service  daily  in 
the  church  for  the  souls  of  the  king's  father  Richard,  duke  of  York,  his 
brother  Edmund,  earl  of  Rutland,  and  his  kinsman  Richard,  earl  of 
Salisbury,  and  John  Essex  and  Adam  Godeman  and  their  fathers  aud 
mothers,  provided  that  they  apply  the  issues  to  the  repair  of  the  said 
tenements,  houses,  shops  and  gardens  or  to  other  pious  u.ses  at  the 
discretion  of  the  bishop  of  London  or  his  successors,  and  also  the  said 
moiety  by  the  name  of  the  brewhouse  called  '  le  Cok  on  the  Hope'  with 
its  appurtenances  for  keeping  the  obit  of  the  said  John  Sokelyng  and 
Margaret  and  Katharine  his  wives  and  all  benefactors  and  parishioners  of 
the  church  with  full  service  by  tolling  of  bells  on  the  day  on  which  the 
said  John  died  and  at  nigiit  the  p/acefjo  and  diriye  and  on  the  morrow 
a  mass  oi'  requiem,  and  finding  a  wax'  candle  of  the  weight  of  10  pounds 
at  Easter  to  burn  in  the  church  about  the  time  of  the  Lord's  burial  and 
expending  the  remaining  revenues  on  the  repair  of  the  church  and  the  said 
moiety.  By  p.s.  and  for  10  marks  paid  in  the  hanaper. 


1467.  Membrane  1 — cont. 

Nov.  25.  Licence  for  the  alienation  in  mortmain  by  Walter  Blount,  lord  Montjoy, 
Westminster,  knight,  and  his  wife  the  king's  kinswoman  Anne,  duchess  of  Buckingham, 
executrix  of  the  will  of  Humphrey,  duke  of  Buckingham,  to  the 
master,  warden  and  chaplains  of  the  college  of  Plccy  of  lands,  tenements, 
rents  and  advowsons  of  churches,  not  iield  in  chief,  to  the  value  of  40  marks 
yearly,  to  celebrate  divine  service  and  do  other  works  of  piety  in  the  same 
college,  where  the  said  duke  and  the  duchess  disposcul  their  bodies  to  be 
buried,  according  to  the  ordinance  of  the  said  Walter  and  duchess  ;  and  for 
the  said  master,  warden  and  chaplains  to  unite  and  appropriate  such 
churches  to  the  college.  By  p.s. 


1468. 
Feb.  13. 
Westminster. 


Membrane  17  d. 

Commission  of  oyer  and  terminer  to  the  king's  brothers  George,  duke  of 
Clarence,  and  Richard,  duke  of  Gloucester,  his  kinsmen  Richard,  carl  of 
Warwick  and  Salisbury,  and  Richard,  earl  of  Ryvers,and  Anthony  Widevile 
of  Scales,  knight,  John  Audeley  of  Audeley,  kniglit,  John  Sutton  of 


70 


CALENDAR  OF  PATENT  ROLLS. 


1468.  Membmne  17 — cont. 

Dudley,  knight,  John  Bourghchier  of  Berners,  knight,  William  Hastynges 
of  Hastynges,  knight,  Walter  Devereux  of  Ferrers,  knight,  Humphrey 
Bourghchier  of  ()rou:iwell,  knight,  Walter  Blount  of  Mountjoye,  knight, 
John  Markham,  knight,  Robert  Danby,  knight,  William  Yelverton,  knight, 
Richard  Byngham,  knight,  Thomas  Byllyng,  William  Laken,  Walter 
Moyle,  knight,  John  Nedeliam,  knight,  Richard  Chok,  knight,  Thomas 
Littelton,  Thomas  Yonge,  John  Fogge,  knight,  John  Scot,  knight,  Thomar, 
Burgh,  knight,  and  John  Oatesby  in  the  counties  of  Warwick,  Worcester, 


Nottingham,  Derby,  Stafford,  Salop  and  Hereford. 


By  K. 


Membrane  15rf. 

Feb.  16.  Commission  to  Richard  Byngham,  knight,  Thomas  Littelton,  William 
Coventry.  Cuniberford,  Robert  Tanfeld  and  John  Dyve  to  enquire  into  the  complaint 
of  John  Sutton,  lord  of  Dudley,  knight,  that  whereas  Richard  de  Sutton 
granted  the  manor  of  Warsshop,  co.  Nottingham,  with  a  yearly  rent  of 
lOZ.  in  Tuxford,  co.  Nottingham,  to  .John  de  Sutton  his  son  and  Margaret 
his  wife,  daughter  of  Sir  Roger  de  Somery,  late  bfiron  of  Dudley,  and  the 
heirs  of  his  body,  and  by  virtue  of  this  grant  the  said  -John  and  Margaret 
were  seised  of  the  same  in  time  of  peace  in  time  of  Edward  IH.  and 
received  the  csplecs  thereof  and  the  right  of  the  same  descended  succes- 
sively from  the  said  John  son  of  Richard  to  John  his  son,  John  son  of 
the  latter,  John  son  of  the  last-named,  John  sou  of  the  last  John  and  his 
son  John  Sutton  the  complainant,  and  \yy  an  act  in  Parlinnient  at 
Westniiuster.  4  November,  1  Edward  IV.  it  was  ordained  that  Thomas, 
lord  Roos,  should  forfeit  all  that  he  had  on  30  December  then  last  and 
on  4  March,  1  Edward  IV.  by  an  inquisition  taken  at  Newark,  co. 
Nottingham,  on  29  October,  5  Edward  IV.  before  John  Neville,  then 
escheator  in  the  county,  by  virtue  of  h.'\s  office  and  returned  into  the 
Exchequer  on  23  November,  5  Edward  IV.  it  was  found  that  the  said 
Thomas,  lord  Roos,  was  seised  of  the  said  manor  and  rent  on  30  December, 
39  Henry  VI.  and  4  March,  1  Edward  IV.  and  the  said  manor  and  rent 
wei'e  taken  into  the  king's  bands  and  remained  there  from  the  said 
29  October  until  30  July  last  past,  when  the  king  by  letters  patent  granted 
the  manor  with  the  advowson  of  the  church  of  Warsshop  to  John,  earl  of 
Worcester,  and  Philippa  Roos  his  sister,  late  the  Avife  of  Thomas,  lord 
Roos,  but  that  neither  the  complainant  nor  his  predecessors  have  been 
attainted,  wherefore  he  prays  that  justice  may  be  done.  By  K. 

Feb.  28.  Commission  to  Walter  Moyle,  knight,  John  Clerk,  Humphrey  Sterky, 
Westminster.  John  Rowe  and  John  Cobbe  to  enquire  into  the  complaint  of  George 
Darell,  knight,  Richard  Darell,  knight,  Constantine  Darell,  Alexander 
Darell  and  Thomas  Darell,  sons  and  heirs  according  to  the  custom  of 
gavelkind  of  William  Darell,  that  whereas  Robert  Sherewynde,  citizen  and 
mercer  of  London,  was  seised  of  the  ra.anor  of  Capell,  co.  Kent,  in  his 
demesne  as  of  fee  and  enfeoffed  the  said  William  Darell  and  Thomas  Elys, 
Thomas  AVotton  and  William  Ledys  of  it  to  hold  to  themselves  and  the 
heirs  and  assigns  of  the  said  William  Darell,  by  virtue  of  which  feoffment 
they  were  seised  of  it  in  time  of  peace  in  lime  of  Henry  IV.  and  received 
the  esplees  thereof  and  continued  their  possession  until  by  virtue  of  an 
inquisition  taken  on  Wednesday  after  St.  Leonard,  2  Henry  V.  at  Eltham, 
CO.  Kent,  before  Thomas  Lygon  and  William  Lee,  commissioners  of  the 
king,  by  virtue  of  letters  patent  directed  to  them  and  one  William  Tykhill, 
it  was  found  by  vei-dict  of  twelve  men  that  Thomas  Shelley,  knight,  who 
made  forfeiture  to  Henry  IV.  was  seised  of  the  said  manor  at  the  time  of 
his  forfeiture  in  his  demesne  as  of  fee,  viz.  on  Wednesday  after  the 


7  EDWAED  IV.— Part  III. 


71 


1468.  Membrane  lo — cont. 

Purification,  1  Henrj  IV.  the  manor  was  taken  into  the  hands  of  Henry  V. 
and  tlie  said  William,  Thomas,  Thomas  and  William  were  expelled  from 
it,  and  afterwards  the  said  Thomas,  Thomas  and  William  died  and  the  said 
William  Darell  survived  and  after  his  death  the  right  of  the  manor 
descended  to  the  complainants  as  his  sons  and  heirs  according  to  the 
custom  of  gavelkind,  but  that  the  said  Thomas  Shelley  was  not  seised  of 
tlie  manor  or  any  parcel  of  it,  and  afterwards  the  king  by  letters  patent 
dated  7  April,  4  Edward  IV.  granted  the  manor  to  one  William  Darell 
of  the  county  of  Kent,  who  entered  into  it  and  is  still  seised  of  it  in 
his  demesne  as  of  fee,  wherefore  they  pray  that  justice  may  be  done. 

By  K. 


Membrane  14</. 

Feb,  5.         Commission  to  William  Eustas  and  Thomas  Franke,  Serjeants  at  arms, 
Westminster.  John  Colo  and  the  sheriffs  of  London  and  Kent  to  arrest  Robert  Quikerell, 
Laurence  Mouden,  .John  Cre.ssyngham  and  Robert  Sorapnour  and  bring 
them  before  the  king  in  Chancery. 


Membrane  \Zd. 

Feb.  28.        Commission  to  Walter  Moyle,  knight,  John  Clerk,  Humphrey  Sterkey, 
Westminster.  John  Rowe  and  John  Cobbe  ^o  enquire  into  the  complaint  of  George 
Darell,  knight,   Richard  Darell,  knight,  Constantine  J>urell,  Alexander 
Darell  and  Thomas  Darell  touching  the  manor  of  Capell,  co.  Kent.  {See 
above.)  By  K. 


72 


8  EDWARD  IV.— Part  I. 


Membrane  30. 

Pardons  of  outlawry  to  the  following  : — 

John  Parker  of  Plymptou  Earle,  co.  Devon,  *  mercer,'  for  not  appearing 
before  the  jnstices  of  the  Bench  to  answer  William  George  touching 
a  debt  of  30Z.  he  having  surrendered  to  the  Flete  prison,  as  Robert 
Danby,  knight,  chief  justice  of  the  Bench,  has  certified.  Devon. 

John  Page  of  Little  Brikhull,  co.  Buckingham,  '  yoman,'  for  not 
appearing  to  answer  Walter  Blount  of  Mountjoye,  knight,  and 
Anne,  duchess  of  Buckingham,  his  wife  and  John  Heton,  esquire, 
late  receiver  general  of  the  duchess,  touching  a  debt  of  19/.  14s. 

London. 

Martin  Valens  late  of  Weymouth,  co.  Dorset,  merchant,  for  not 
appearing  before  John  Prysot  and  his  fellows,  justices  of  the  Bench 
of  the  late  king,  to  answer  John  Sarger  and  Isabel  his  wife  touching 
a  debt  of  60s.  Somerset. 

John  Bynde  of  the  parish  of  Lansalwys,  co.  Cornwall,  *  yoman,'  for  not 
appearing  in  the  court  of  the  late  king  to  answer  Robert  de  Veer, 
knight,  touching  a  debt  of  53s.  4rf.  Devon. 

William  liangtwayte  or  Langthwayte  of  Doiicastre,  co.  York,  '  baxster,' 
or  '  baker,'  for  not  appearing  before  John  Prysot  and  his  fellows, 
justices  of  the  Bench  of  the  late  king,  to  answer  Nicholas  Morley, 
esquire,  John  Prysot  and  Thomas  Hauohet  touching  a  debt  of  10/. 
and  Thomas  Dereman  of  Anston  touching  a  debt  of  40s. 

York  &  Middlesex. 

Thomas  Langtwayte  of  Doncastre,  co.  York,  '  bakestere,'  for  not 
appearing  to  answer  Nicholas  Morley,  esquire,  Thomas  Hauchet  and 
John  Prysot  touching  a  debt  of  10/.  Hertford. 

Juliana  Sayer  late  of  Cicestre,  co.  Sussex,  'wydowe,'  executrix  of  the 
will  of  James  Saver  late  of  Cicestre,  '  chapman,'  for  not  appearing 
before  the  justices  of  the  Bench  to  answer  a  plea  that  she  render 
8/.  2s.  9c?.  to  James  Wellys  alias  Welles,  citizen  and  draper  of 
Loudon.  Middlesex. 

Richard  Bussh  alias  Busche  of  Brykhill,  co,  Buckingham,  '  husbond- 
man,'  for  not  appearing  before  Richard  Neuton  and  his  fellows, 
justices  of  the  Bench  of  the  late  king,  to  answer  John  Cotford, 
citizen  and  mercer  of  London,  touching  a  debt  of  46*.  8d.  and 
before  John  Prysot  and  his  fellows,  justices  of  the  Bench  of  the  late 
king,  to  answer  the  said  John  touching  a  debt  of  46s.  8d.  London. 

William  Brok  of  RoUeston  in  the  parish  of  Banewell,  co.  Somerset, 
'  liusbondman,'  for  not  appearing  before  Richard  Neuton  and  his 
fellows,  justices  of  tlie  Bench  of  the  late  king,  to  answer  Thomas 
Saylok  touching  a  debt  of  40s.  Somerset. 

John  Gunny  late  of  Yerburgh,  co.  Lincoln,  '  husbondman,'  for  not 
appearing  before  the  justices  of  the  Bench  when  sued  with  Thomas 
Gunny  late  of  Yerburgh,  '  husbondman,'  to  answer  a  plea  that  they 
render  a  horse  worth  6  marks  to  John  Jakson.  Middlesex. 


8  EDWARD  IV.— Part  I. 


73 


1468. 

May  6. 
Westminster. 


May  4. 

Westminster. 


May  17. 

Westminster. 

May  11. 
Westminster. 


May  10. 

Westminster. 


May  16. 
Westminster. 


May  19. 

Westminster. 


May  17. 
Westminster. 


May  9. 

Westminster. 


May  19. 
Westminster. 


May  18. 
Westminster. 


May  18. 
Westminster, 


May  21. 

Westuiiuster. 


Membrane  30 — cont. 

Simon  Bellyngham  late  of  Buntyngford,  co.  Hertford,  '  husbondman,' 
for  not  appearing  before  Robert  Danby  and  his  fellows,  justices  of 
the  Bench,  to  answer  William  Lorkyn  of  Basyngbum  touching  a 
debt  of  40/.  Cambridge. 

Robert  Skelton  late  of  Carlyle,  co.  Cumberland,  '  gentilman,'  for  not 
appearing  before  the  justices  of  the  Bench  to  answer  Gilbert 
Preston,  citizen  and  *  goldsmyth '  of  London,  touching  a  debt  of 
4  marks.  London. 

Joan  Olney  late  of  London,  '  wedowe,'  for  not  appearing  to  answer 
Thomas  Adams  touching  a  debt  of  40s.  Middlesex. 

Richard  Tatersale  late  of  Bulfan,  co.  Essex,  chaplain,  alias  of  Wodeham 
Mortymer,  co  Essex,  clerk,  for  not  appearing  before  John  Prysot  and 
his  fellows,  justices  of  the  Bench  of  the  late  king,  to  answer  Thomas 
Brygge,  clerk,  touching  a  debt  of  100s.  Middlesex. 

Richai'd  Bonyndon  late  of  Penne,  co.  Buckingham,  'carpenter,'  for 
not  appearing  before  the  justices  of  the  Bench  to  answer  Philip 
Agmondesham  touching  a  trespass.  Hertford. 

Robert  Thakster  late  of  Lesyngham,  co.  Northampton,  {sic)  alias  late 
of  Lesyngham,  co.  Norfolk,  '  yoman,'  for  not  appearing  to  answer 
William  Westbury,  clerk,  lately  called  Master  William  We.stbury, 
late  provost  of  the  college  of  St.  Mary,  Eton,  touching  a  debt  of 
10/.  Middlesex. 

John  Panery  late  of  Bishop's  Lynn,  co.  Norfolk,  clerk,  for  not  appearing 
before  Richard  Neuton  and  liis  fellows,  justices  of  the  Bench  of  the 
late  king,  to  answer  William  Sylk  of  Bishop's  Lynn  touching  a  debt 
of  5  marks. 

Richard  Chapman  of  Dadyngton,  co.  Oxford,  '  wever,'  for  not  appearing 
to  answer  Richard  Wody  and  Thomas  Ilarryes  touching  a  debt  of 
13/.  10s.  Oxford. 

John  Whyte  alias  White  of  Farnham,  co.  Surrey,  merchant,  alias 
'  gentilman,' for  not  appearing  l)efore  the  justices  of  the  Bench  to 
answer  William  Cardemaker,  citizen  and  grocer  of  London,  John 
Aleyn,  citizen  and  goldsmith  of  London,  and  Thomas  CiartU,  citizen 
and  grocer  of  London,  touching  j)leas  of  debt  of  100/.  120/.  and  52/. 
respectively  and  John  Crofton  and  William  Crofton  touching  a  debt 
of  20/.  London. 

Thomas  Letherpoll  of  Wyveton,  co.  Norfolk,  'yoman,'  for  not 
appearing  before  Richard  Neuton  and  his  fellows,  justices  of  the 
Bench  of  the  late  king,  to  answer  William  Norwich  touching  a  debt 
of  4  marks.  Norfolk. 

Robert  Lyng  of  Acle,  co.  Norfolk,  '  husbondman,'  for  not  appearing 
before  the  justices  of  the  Bench  to  answer  Alice  Purke  touching  a 
trespass.  Norfolk. 

Ralph  Wolfe  late  of  Lenton,  co.  Suffolk,  '  husbondman,'  for  not 
appearing  to  answer  John  Boon,  abbot  of  the  monastery  of 
St.  Edmund  of  Bury,  touching  a  debt  of  26/.  13s.  4t/.  London. 

Robert  Wyles  of  Heryngthorpe,  co.  York,  husbondman,  for  not 
appearing  to  answer  Richard  Wilcok  of  Roderham  touching  a  debt 
of  40s.  York. 

John  Houe  late  of  Winchester,  co.  Soutluiui[)ton,  *  clothemaker,'  for 
not  appearing  before  John  Prysot  and  his  fellows,  justices  of  the 
Bench  of  the  late  king,  to  answer  John  Plommer,  citizen  and  grocer 
of  London,  touching  a  debt  of  100s.  12(/.  Southampton. 


74 


CALENDAR  OF  PATENT  ROLLS. 


1468.  Membrane  29. 

July  8.  John  Wayte  of  Branketre,  co.  Essex,  'yonoan,'  alias  John  Wait, 

Westminster.^  '  gentilraau,'  for  not  appearing  before  Richard  Neuton   and  his 

fellows,  justices  of  the  Bench  of  the  late  king,  to  answer  Thomas 
Reniond,  citizen  and  tailor  of  London,  touching  a  debt  of  40s. 
before  John  Prysot  and  his  fellows,  justices  of  the  Bench  of  the 
late  king,  to  answer  .John  Doreward,  esquire,  and  John  William, 
citizen  and  draper  of  London,  touching  a  debt  of  IKV.  and  Henry 
Paehet  touching  a  debt  of  10  marks,  and  before  the  justices  of  the 
Bench  to  answer  Thomas  Colley  of  the  parish  of  St.  Clement  Danes 
without  the  bar  of  the  New  Temple,  London,  '  goldsmyth,'  alias  of 
the  town  of  Westminster,  co.  Middlesex,  touching  a  debt  of  40s. 

London  &  Middlesex. 

July  11.  Robert  Warde  late  of  Norhampton,  'yoman,'  for  not  appearing  before 

Westminster.  the  justices  of  the  Bench  to  answer  William  Hille,  citizen  and 

barber  of  London,  touching  a  debt  of  60s.  Middlesex. 

Oct.  13.  John  Mosse  late  of  Gyldenmorden,  co.  Cambridge,  '  pulter,' for  not 

Westminster.  appearing  to  answer  John  En^lyssh  touching  a  trespass. 

Oct.  14.  John  Shilston  late  of  Great  Tottenes,  co.  Devon,  '  gentilman,' a/tas 

Westminster.  John  Silton  the  younger,  for  not  appearing  to  answer  John  Fortescu, 

esquire,  touching  a  debt  of  20  marks.  Middlesex. 

Oct.  16.  William    Toker   late   of   Buketon,  co.  Devon,  '  carpenter,'  for  not 

AVestminster.  appearing  to  answer  John  Sachevyle  touching  a  trespass.  Devon. 

Oct.  1 7.  John   Sprigonell   late  of  Crigilston,    co.   York,  '  yoman,'  for  not 

Westminster.  appearing  to  answer  John  Fereby  touching  a  debt  of  20  marks. 

London. 

Oct.  14.  John  Smyth  of  Walgrave,  co.  Northampton,   'chapman,'  for  not 

Westminster.  appearing  before  John  Prysot  and  his  fellows,  justices  of  the  Bench 

of  the  late  king,  to  answer  Philip  Holewell,  citizen  and  mercer  of 
London,  touching  a  debt  of  40s.  London. 

Oct.  18.  Robert  Fordeman   of  Maydeston,   co.   Kent,  '  corvyser,'   for  not 

Westminster.  appearing  to  answer  Louis  Strossis  alias  Lucius  Strosse,  Lombard, 

John  Ambrose  of  Marine,  Lombard,  and  Peter  Fleysco  touching 
a  debt  of  100^.  London. 

Oct.  16.  John   Marchall  late  of   Fawekeswell,  co.   Bedford,   the  younger, 

Westminster.  '  husbondman,' for  not  appearing  to  answer  John  Lounde  and  John 

Grene  touching  a  debt  of  20/.  Hertford. 

Oct.  18.  William  Blaket  late  of  Merton,  co.  Oxford,  'husbondman,'  for  not 

Westminster.  appearing  before  the  justices  of  the   Bench  to  answer  Robert 

Faryngdon,  abbot  of  the  monastery  of  Eynesham,  touching  a  debt 
of  20/.  Oxford. 

Oct.  18.  Thomas  Bangolf  of  Botekysham,  co.  Cambridge,  'husbondman,'  for 

Westminster.  not  appearing  to  answer  John,  prior  of  the  church  of  St.  Mary, 

Anglesey,  touching  a  debt  of  40s.  Cambridge. 

Thomas  Gascoigne  late  of  Hovyngham  in  Ridale,  co.  York,  *  yoman,' 
John  Gascoigne  late  of  Hovyngham,  '  barker,'  Agnes  Gascoigne  of 
Hovyngham,  'wedowe,'  and  William  Gaacoigne  of  Hovyngham, 
'  husbondman,'  for  not  appeai-ing  before  John  Prysot  and  his 
fellows,  justices  of  the  Bench  of  the  late  king,  to  answer  Peter 
Ardern,  Nicholas  Girlyngton  and  Robert  Davyson  touching  a 
trespass,  York. 
Oct.  28.  Richard  Emme   of   Tamworth,   co.   Warwick,  *  yoman,'  for  not 

Westminster.  appearing  before  the  justices  of  the  Bench  to   answer  Nicholas 

Rylandes  and  John  Wolshawe  the  elder  touching  a  debt  of  40/. 

.Stafford. 


8  EDWARD  IV.— Part  I. 


75 


Oct.  18. 
Westminster. 


Oct.  19. 
Westminster. 


1468.  Membrane  29 — cont. 

Oct.  19.  William  Botyrfeld  late  of  Southwerk,  co.  Surrey,  chaplain,  for  uot 

Westminster.  appearing  before  John  Prysot  and  his  fellows,  justices  of  the  Bench 

of  the  late  king,  to  answer  Gilbert  Polvertoft  touching  a  debt  of 
60s.  Ad.  Loudon. 
John  Grawnt  late  of  Bykylyswade,  co.  Bedford,  *  fyssher,'  for  not 
appearing  before  the  justices  of  the  Bench  to  answer  John  Skowe 
touching  a  debt  of  57*.  London. 
John  LyndauU  of  Northburton,  co.  York,  *  husbondnian,'  for  not 
appearing  to  answer  the  abbot  of  Meaux  touching  a  debt  of  60s. 

York. 

William  Daungevyle  of  Wengo,  co.  Buckingham,  '  carpenter,' for  not 
appearing  to  answer  Geoffrey  Kedwelly  and  John  Morlond  touching 
a  debt  of  40/.  Berks, 
John  Cowepar  of  Eynesford,  co.  Kent,  'husbondnian,'  for  not 
appearing  before  John  Prysot  and  his  fellows,  justices  of  the  Bench 
of  the  late  king,  to  answer  Richard  Byngham  touching  a  debt  of 
5  marks.  INIiddlesex. 
Thomas  Davy  of  Crydyton,  co.  Devon,  'baker,'  for  not  appearing 
before  tlie  justices  of  the  Bench  to  answer  John  SnyfFemore,  clerk, 
touching  a  debt  of  40s.  Devon. 

Oct.  16.  Henry  Laurence  of  Wenge,  co.  Buckingham,  '  husbondman,' for  not 

Westminster.  appearing  to  answer  Geoffrey  Kedwelly  and  John  Morlond  touching 

a  debt  of  40/.  Berks, 

Oct  20.  John  Petegrcwe  late  of  Exeter,  co.  Devon,  '  pardoner,'  for  not  appearing 

Westminster.  before  John  Pry.sot  and  his  fellows,  justices  of  the  Bench  of  the  lute 

king,  to  answer  Richard  Levcrmore  touching  a  trespass  coniuii(tcd 
by  him  and  William  Foster  late  of  Seynt.'iydewellesfe  witliout  the 
east  gate  of  the  city  of  Kxetcr,  co.  Devon,  '  pardoner,'  William 
Blake  late  of  Seyntsydewellcsfe,  '  pardoner,'  Richard  Denys  late  of 
Seyntsydewellesf'e,  '  [)ardoner,'  .John  II ilk;  late  of  Seyntsydewellcsfe, 
'pardoner,'  Richard  Fclde  late  of  Seyntsydcwellesfo,  'pardoner,' 
Thomas  More  late  of  Seyntsydewellcsfe,  '  pardoner,'  John  Amere 
late  of  Seyntsydewellcsfe,  '  pardoner,'  and  Geoffrey  Pardoner  late  of 
Seyntsydewcllesfe,*'  pardoner.'  Devon. 


Oct.  25. 
Westminster. 


Oct.  27. 
Westminster. 

Oct.  28. 

Westminster, 


Oct,  .^0. 
Westmiustep. 


Membraxe  28. 

William  Promter  of  Strete,  co.  Somcr.set,  'husbondman,'  for  not 
appearing  before  the  justices  of  the  Bench  to  answer  a  p\ea  that  he 
render  his  account  to  John  Marshall  for  the  time  when  he  was  his 
receiver.  Devon. 

William  Mathewe  late  of  Suthwerk,  co.  Surrey,  'bochcr,'  for  uot 
appearing  to  answer  John  Pennyng,  '  bruer,'  touching  a  debt  of  40s, 

London. 

John  Slugge  of  Bokelond  St.  Mary,  co.  Somerset,  clerk,  for  not 
appearing  to  answer  Henry  Faux  and  John  Blancombe  touching  a 
debt  of  100s.  Somerset. 

Thomas  Alcyn  of  Asshyn,  co.  Essex,  *  wever,'  for  not  appearing  to 
answer  a  plea  that  he  render  71s.  to  William  Hcyncs,  Thomas  Pylchc 
and  .John  Soman,  executors  of  the  will  of  Thomas  Hej'nes  late  of 
Royston,  alias  Thomas  Heynes,  '  drover.'  Essex. 

John  Bele  of  Shildon,  co.  Devon,  '  bochcr,'  for  not  appearing  to  answer 
John  Almyscombe,  esquire,  administiator  of  tlie  goods  and  chattels 


• 


76 


CALENDAR  OF  PATENT  ROLLS. 


1468. 


•  Oct.  10. 

Westminster. 


Oct.  30. 

Westminster. 


Nov.  4. 

Westminster. 

Nov.  3. 
Westminster. 

Oct.  27. 
Westminster. 


Nov.  3. 
Westminster. 


Oct.  9. 
Westminster. 


Oct.  24. 
Westminster, 

Nov.  4. 

Westminster, 

Nov.  3. 
Westminster. 


Oct.  27. 
Westminster. 


Membrane  28 — cont. 

of  John  Ferlard,  chaplain,  who  died  intestate,  touching  a  debt  of 
62s.  %d.  Devon, 

Thomas  Gooday  late  of  Coggeshale,  co.  Essex,  'fuller,'  for  not 
appearing  before  John  Prysot  and  his  fellows,  justices  of  the  Bench 
of  the  late  king,  to  answer  Bartholomew  Coupere,  citizen  and 
'draper'  of  London,  and  John  Clerk,  citizen  and  'grocer'  of 
London,  touching  debts  of  S/.  and  46*.  \0d.  respectively.  London. 

William  Poleyn  of  Kentesbeare,  co.  Devon,  '  wever,'  for  not  appearing 
when  sued  with  John  Meffelyn  of  Ufcolme,  co.  Devon,  '  husbond- 
man,'  William  Meffeln  of  Ufcolme,  '  husbondman,'  Ralph  Broke  of 
Kentesbeare,  '  yoman,'  and  John  Busshell  of  Kentesbeare,  '  husbond- 
man,' to  answer  Richard  Frankcheyne  touching  a  trespass.  Devon. 

Walter  Berell  late  of  Holston,  co.  Norfolk, '  yoman,'  for  not  appearing 
before  the  justices  of  the  Bench  to  answer  John  Newport  touching  a 
debt  of  40/.  Suffolk. 

John  Bourne  late  of  Malmesbury,  co.  Wilts,  'gentilman,'  for  not 
appearing  before  the  late  king  to  answer  William  Hern  touching  a 
trespass.  London. 

William  Leyman  late  of  Yworlhy  within  the  parish  of  Germaneswyk, 
CO.  Devon,  '  husbondman,'  for  not  appearing  before  John  Prysot  and 
his  fellows,  justices  of  the  Bench  of  the  late  king,  to  answer  John 
Bery  touching  a  debt  of  5  marks  2Q)d.  Somerset. 

Robert  Bate  of  Lincoln,  'mercer,'  for  not  appearing  before  the  justices 
of  the  Bench  to  answer  John  Carberton  touching  a  trespass 
committed  by  him  and  William  Rygot  of  Lincoln,  '  cartwright,'  and 
Ellen  his  wife  and  Ralph  Driffeld  of  Lincoln,  'corveser.'  Lincoln. 

John  Marche  of  Burne  St.  Mary,  co.  Southampton,  '  husbondman,'  for 
not  appearing  to  answer  John  Halle  of  Salisbury,  '  marchaunt,' 
touching  a  debt  of  40Z.  Wilts. 

Thomas  Skrymshire  late  of  Whitwell,  co.  Derby,  'gentilman,'  for  not 
appearing  to  answer  a  plea  of  Henry  Buntyng  of  Asshover  that 
out  of  his  own  head  he  forged  divers  deeds  and  muniments  for 
the  destruction  of  the  title  of  the  latter  to  certain  lands  of  his  in 
Asshover ;  and  the  said  Thomas  and  Agnes  his  wife  for  not 
appearing  to  answer  another  plea  that  they  render  to  the  said 
Henry  a  coffer  containing  charters  and  other  muniments.  Derby. 

Hugh  Cliderhowe  late  of  Kyngeston  on  Hull  the  younger,  merchant, 
for  not  appealing  to  answer  William  Somerby  of  Bridlyngton, 
butcher,  touching  a  debt  of  16/.  York. 

John  or  William  Lytelton  late  of  Bokonnok,  co.  Cornwall, '  gentilman,' 
for  not  appearing  to  answer  Thomas  Gay  of  London  the  elder 
.  touching  a  debt  of  40*.  London. 

John  Stonford  late  of  the  parish  of  St.  Andrew  in  Holborne  without 
the  bar  of  the  Old  Temple,  London,  co.  Middlesex,  'gentilman,' 
alias  of  Bukelond  Bruer,  co.  Devon,  for  not  appearing  before  John 
Prysot  and  his  fellows,  justices  of  the  Bench  of  the  late  king,  to 
answer  Thomas  Gay  the  younger,  citizen  and  tailor  of  London, 
touching  a  debt  of  4/.  London. 

Roger  Forthe  alias  Vorth  alias  Ford  alias  Fourde  of  Abyngdon, 
CO.  Berks,  '  mercer,'  alias  '  chapman,'  for  not  appearing  before  the 
justices  of  the  Bench  to  answer  John  Martyn,  citizen  and  '  taillour  ' 
of  London,  Robert  Tooke,  citizen  and  'iremonger'  of  London, 
Alan  Colet  and  John  Neele,  citizen  and  grocer  of  London,  touching 


« 


8  EDWARD  IV.— Part  I. 


77 


1468. 


Oct.  28. 
Westminster. 

Nov.  8. 
Westminster. 


Nov.  10. 

Westminster. 

Nov.  9. 
Westminster. 


Membrane  28 — cont, 

debts  of  41.  9s.  8d.,  81.,  40s.  and  HI.  respectively,  and  Giles  Palmer 
of  Suthampton,  'grocer,'  and  John  Ryver,  citizen  and  skinner  of 
London,  touching  a  debt  of  6/.  3s.  4d. 

Middlesex,  London,  &  Wilts. 

John  Harrys  late  of  Oxford,  '  bedell,'  for  not  appearing  lo  answer 
Alice  Denton,  widow,  touching  a  debt  of  40s.  Oxford. 

Robert  Dobbesson  of  Aynesford,  co.  Kent,  '  yoman,'  for  not  appearing 
before  John  Prysot  and  his  fellows,  justices  of  the  Bench  of  the 
late  king,  to  answer  Humphrey  Smyth,  citizen  and  skinr\er  of 
London,  touching  a  debt  of  40s.  Surrey. 

Thomas  Laund  of  Warmestre,  co.  Wilts,  '  wever,'  for  not  appearing  to 
answer  John  Uffenham  touching  a  debt  of  100s.  Wilts. 

Thomas  Smeth  or  Smyth  of  Stretele,  co.  Berks,  *  smyth,'  for  not 
appearing  before  the  justices  of  the  Bench  to  answer  John  Pury, 
esquire,  touching  a  debt  of  100s.  Berks. 


Membrane  27. 


May  18. 
Westminster. 


May  8. 
Westminster. 


May  27. 
Westminster. 


May  23. 
Westminster. 


May  27. 
Westminster. 


May  2G. 
Westminster. 


May  27. 

Westminster. 


May  30. 
Westminster. 


May  30. 
Westminster. 


May  16. 
Westminster. 


Walter  Sonne  of  Sevenok,  co.  Kent,  executor  of  the  will  of  John 
Sonne,  for  not  appearing  to  au.swcr  a  plea  that  he  render  41.  to 
William  Lyghtwode.  London. 

Robert  Nevyle  late  of  Gotehirst,  co.  Buckingham,  *  gentilman,'  for 
not  appearing  to  answer  a  plea  that  he  render  20/.  to  Millicent  late 
the  wife  of  Richard  Horton,  'gentilman,'  and  executrix  of  his  will. 

Middlesex. 

William  Wright  of  Little  Cressyngham,  co.  Norfolk,  clerk,  for  not 
appearing  to  answer  Thomas  Huggeford,  escpiire,  and  William 
Berkeswell,  clerk,  touching  a  debt  of  18/.  15s.  Warwick. 

Richard  Dey  late  of  Foxton,  co.  Leicester,  '  husbonchnan,'  for  not 
appearing  to  answer  Thomas  Dere  touching  a  debt  of  10  marks. 

Leicester. 

John  Coteler  of  Barnestaple,  co.  Devon,  the  elder,  '  coteler,'  for  not 
appearing  before  Robert  Danby  and  his  fellows,  justices  of  the 
Bench,  to  answer  Richard  Ryke  touching  a  trespass.  Cornwall. 

Dame  Elizabeth  Sandeford  late  of  Thorpe  Salven,  co.  York,  '  wydowe,' 
executrix  of  the  will  of  Charles  Morton  late  of  Bautre,  co.  York, 
'gentilman,'  for  not  appearing  before  the  justices  of  the  Bench  to 
answer  a  plea  that  she  render  60  sheep  worth  8  marks  and  chattels 
to  the  value  of  6  marks  to  Thomas  Pykburn  and  Joan  his  wife. 

York. 

John  Albon  of  Hicchen,  co.  Hertford,  '  bocher,'  for  not  appearing  to 
answer  John  AV'ynche  of  Baldok,  co.  Hertford,  '  labarer,'  touching  a 
debt  of  15/.  London. 

Thomas  Preston  late  of  Gloucestre,  '  taillour,'  alias  of  Tettesworth, 
CO.  Oxford,  '  ostiller,'  for  not  appearing  to  answer  John  Ades, 
citizen  and  goldsmitli  of  London,  and  John  Mayleghwyn  touching 
debts  of  40s.  and  4  marks  respectively.  Middlesex  &  Bristol. 

John  Eynons  late  of  Watlesburgh,  co.  Middlesex,  '  husbondman,'  and 
Rose  his  wife  for  not  appearing  before  the  king  to  answer  Maurice 
ap  Y^cvan  and  Juliana  his  wife  touching  a  trespass.  Middlesex. 

Thomas  Mate  of  Mou.sole,  co.  Cornwall,  clerk,  for  not  appearing 
before  Richard  Neuton  and  his  fellows,  justices  of  the  Bench  of  the 
late  king,  to  answer  John  Vaiupage  touching  a  debt  of  20/. 

Gloucester, 


78 


CALENDAR  OF  PATENT  ROLLS. 


14G8. 
May  30. 

Westminster. 


May  27. 
Westminstei, 


June  26, 
Westminster. 


June  30. 
Westminster. 


July  1. 
Westminster. 


July  2. 
Westminster. 


May  20. 
Westminster. 


May  14. 

Westminster. 


June  25. 
Westminster. 


July  4. 
Westminster. 

July  11. 
Westminster, 


July  9, 
Westminster. 


Membrane  27 — eont. 

Thomas  Thornton  late  of  London,  clerk,  for  not  appearing  before  the 
justices  of  the  Bench  to  answer  John  Ades,  citizen  and  goldsmith  of 
London,  touching  a  debt  of  46*,  Middlesex, 

John  Brokemau  of  Frome  in  Selvvode,  co.  Somerset,  'clothiere,'  for 
not  appearing  before  John  Prysot  and  his  fellows,  justices  of  the 
Bench  of  the  late  king,  to  answer  John  Petyt,  citizen  and  grocer  of 
London,  touching  a  debt  of  435.  Loudon. 

Thomas  Walssh,  late  vicar  of  the  parish  church  of  Moredon,  co.  Surrey, 
alias  rector  of  Spryngwell,  co.  Essex,  for  not  appearing  before 
Robert  Dauby  and  his  fellows,  justices  of  the  Bench,  to  answer 
John  Bowe,  clerk,  touching  a  debt  of  10  marks.  Middlesex. 

John  Bryce  late  of  Holecombe  Rogus,  co.  Devon,  '  gentilman,'  alias 
of  Wyngeaulton,  co.  Somerset,  alias  late  of  London,  for  not 
appearing  before  John  Prysot  and  his  fellows,  justices  of  the  Bench 
of  the  late  king,  to  answer  John  Lemyngton  touching  a  debt  of  40*. 
and  Henry  Shyngwell,  citizen  and  goldsmith  of  London,  touching  a 
debt  of  40s.  Devon  &  London. 

Richard  Rysyng  late  of  Felmyngham,  co.  Norfolk,  '  shomaker,'  for 
not  appearing  before  the  justices  of  the  Bench  to  answer  a  plea  that 
he  render  chattels  to  the  value  of  405.  to  William  Herman  and 
Agnes  his  wife.  Suffolk. 

Edmund  Andreus  late  of  Fylmyngham,  co.  Norfolk,  '  worstedewever,' 
for  not  appearing  to  answer  a  plea  that  he  render  four  cows  worth 
405.  to  William  Herman  and  Agnes  his  wife.  Suffolk. 

Robert  Glave,  rector  of  the  church  of  Cramford,  co.  Middlesex,  for 
not  appearing  to  answer  Robert  Nevland,  '  gentilman,'  touching  a 
debt  of  40s.  Middlesex. 

John  Hudson  of  Redclyff,  co.  Middlesex,  '  smyth,'  for  not  appearing 
before  Robert  Danby  and  his  fellows  to  answer  Joan  Dobyn, 
'  wydowe,'  touching  a  debt  of  40s.  London. 

John  Code  of  Thetford,  co.  Norfolk,  '  skryvynner,'  for  not  appearing 
before  the  justices  of  the  Bench  to  answer  a  plea  that  be  render 
5  marks  to  John  Dey  of  Hepworth,  co.  Suffolk,  executor  of  the  will 
of  Robert  Clerk  late  of  Hepworth.  Norfolk. 

Warin  Sparke  of  King's  Teyngton,  co.  Devon,  *  husbondman,'  for  not 
appearing  to  answer  Fulk  Byrmyngeham,  clerk,  touching  a  debt 
of  40s.  Wilts. 

John  Babbe  of  King's  Teyngton,  co.  Devon,  'husbondman,'  for  not 
appearing  to  answer  Fulk  Byrmyngeam,  clerk,  touching  a  debt  of 
53s.  Ad.  Wilts. 

John  ap  Herry  alias  Apperry  late  of  Olveston,  co.  Gloucester, 
*  gentilman,'  for  not  appearing  to  answer  Richard  Reynold  touching 
a  debt  of  40s.  London. 

William  Sawe  of  Egestou,  cc.  Rutland,  'husbondman,'  for  not 
appearing  to  answer  John  Caidon  touching  a  debt  of  10/.  Oxford. 

Robert  Lasyugby  of  Harestre  in  the  parish  of  Rumford,  co.  Essex, 
'  tanner,'  for  not  appearing  to  answer  Benedict  Wheler  touching  a 
trespass.  London. 

Thomas  Palmer  of  Snetirfeld,  co.  Warwick,  '  husbondman,'  for  not 
appearing  to  answer  Richard  Wildebore,  citizen  and  grocer  of 
London,  touching  a  debt  of  50s.  London. 


8  EDWARD  rV.— Part  I. 


79 


1468.  Membrane  27 — cont. 

Richard  Mayhov/c  of  Snetirfeld,  co.  Warwick,  '  husbondman,'  for  not 
appearing  to  answer  Richard  Wildebore,  citizen  and  grocer  of  London, 


touchinar  a  debt  of  oOs. 


Loudon. 


Membrane  26. 

Nov.  8.  Richard  ITalinere  of  Herpford,  £o.  Devon,  '  husbondman,*  for  not 

Westminster.  appearing  before  John  Prysot  and  liis  fellows,  justices  of  the  Bench 

of  the  late  king,  to  answer  Richard  Levermore  touching  a  debt  of 
40*.  Devon. 

Oct.  10.  William  Aras  of  Cosgrave,  co.  Northampton,  '  husbondiunn,'  for  not 

Wostiiiinster.  appearing  before  the  justices  of  the  Bench  to  answer  John  Shuk- 

burgh,  citizen  and  '  draper'  of  London,  touching  a  debt  of  6/.  20d. 

City  of  Coventry. 

Nov.  IL  William  Belsy  of  the  parish  of  Elham,  co.  Kent,  '  laborer,' for  not 

Westminster.  appearing  to  answer  John  Isak,  esquire,  touching  a  debt  of  lOO*. 

Kent, 

Nov.  9.  John  Graunger  late  of  Tresell,  co.  Stafford,  '  husbondman,'  for  not 

We-stniinster.  appearing  to  answer  Thomas  Wode  touching  a  trespass.  Oxford. 

Nov.  4.  William  Broun  late  of  Banbury,  co.  Oxford,  *  chapcuiin,'  for  not 

Westminster.  a[)pearing   to   answer   John   Gairstange,   citizen    and  grocer  of 

London,  touching  a  debt  of  40.J.  London. 

Nov.  14.  Benedict   Bradmer    of   Okeham,   co.   Rutland,   '  couper,'   for  not 

Westminster.  appearing  to  answer  a  plea  that  he  remhir  2  7.  to  William  Broune, 

merchant,  and  John  Broun,  merchant,  executors  of  the  will  of 
William  Lewes,  late  burgess  of  Bishop's  Lynn,  merchant.  Lincoln. 

Nov,  16.  John  Tryppe  of  Bledlowe,  co.  Buckingham,  *  husbondman,'  for  not 

Westminster.  appearing  to  answer  the  dean  and  canons  of  the  king's  free  chapel 

of  St.  Stephen  within  the  palace  of  Westminster  touching  a  debt  of 
40/,  Middlesex. 

Nov.  15.  John  Blake  of  Netherwallop,  co.  Southampton,  '  geutilman,'  a/ias 

Westminster.  esquire,  for  not  appearing  to  answer  Thomas  (lay  the  younger, 

citizen  of  London,  William  Brounyng,  csciuire,  and  John  Smyth 
touching  debts  of  20/.  100  marks  and  20/.  respectively. 

London,  Dorset  <S:  Surrey. 

Nov.  5.  John  Burgh  late  of  Watilsburgh,  co.  Southampton,  alias  co.  Salop, 

Westminster.  knight,  for  not  appearing  before  John  Prysot  and  his  fellows, 

justices  of  the  Bench  of  the  late  king,  to  answer  Ricliard,  lute 
duke  of  York,  touching  debts  of  100/.  40/.  and  40/.  and  John 
Colard  and  William  Slyngcsby,  touching  a  debt  of  71.  6s.  8d, 
and  to  answer  a  plea  that  ho  render  his  account  to  Margaret,  late 
countess  of  Shrewsbury,  executri.x  of  the  will  of  John  Talbot,  knight, 
late  viscount  de  Lysle,  for  the  time  when  he  was  the  receiver  of 
the  latter,  and  a  ])lea  that  he  render  24/.  to  Walter  Aletyngham 
and  Alice  his  wife,  late  the  wife  of  Thomas  Gruest,  citizen  and 
'goldsmyth  '  of  London,  and  executrix  of  his  will. 

Northampton,  Middlesex  &  London. 

Nov.  16.  John  Brigges  of  Bedford,  'gentilman,'  for   not  appearing  before 

Westminster.  Richard  Neuton  and  liis  fellows,  justices  of  the  Bench  of  the  late 

king,  to  answer  Thomas  Onhand,  citizen  and  mercer  of  Loudon, 
touching  a  debt  of  23/.  London. 
Nov.  19.  John  Norton  late  of  Sandall,  co.  York,  '  voman,'  for  not  appearing 

Westminster.  before  Robert  Danby  and  his  fellows,  justices  of  the  Bench,  to 

answer  Thomas  Okys  touching  a  debt  of  10  marks.  Middlesex. 


80 


CALENDAR  OF  PATENT  ROLLS. 


14(i8. 
Nov.  18. 
Westminster. 

Nov.  21. 

Westminster. 

Nov.  4. 
Westminster. 

Nov.  21. 

Westminster. 


Oct.  10. 

Westminster. 

Nov.  16. 

Westminster. 


Oct.  1 1 . 

Westminster, 


Nov.  27. 
Westminster. 

Nov.  21. 

Westminster. 

Nov.  28. 
Westminster. 

Nov.  24. 
Westminster. 


Nov.  9. 
Westminster. 

Nov.  24. 
Westminster. 


Membrane  26 — cont. 

William  Houghton  alias  StabuU  of  Lydyngtou,  co.  Rutland,  '  drover,' 
for  not  appearing  ijefore  the  justices  of  the  Bench  to  answer  Richard 
Pittes  touching  a  debt  of  20/.  Northampton. 

Martin  Walpoll  of  "WalpoU,  co.  Norfolk,  '  gentilman,'  for  not  appearing 
to  answer  William  Daws  of  Baldyswell  touching  a  debt  of  5  marks. 

Norwich. 

Laurence  Kjghley  of  Norwall,  co.  York, '  gentilman,'  for  not  appearing 
to  answer  Richard  Clapam  touching  a  debt  of  100  marks.  York. 

Hugh  Bowyer  late  of  Kedyrmynster,  co.  Worcester, '  chapman,'  for  not 
appearing  to  answer  William  Bookette  of  Salesbury,  '  marchaunt,' 
touching  a  debt  of  201.  Wilts. 

Thomas  Fyssher  of  Eton  Hastynges,  co.  Berks,  clerk,  for  not  appearing 
when  sued  with  Matthew  Kent  of  Eton  Hastynges,  'yoman,'  to 
answer  John  Frebury  and  the  rector  of  Edyndon  touching  trespasses. 

Berks. 

Matthew  Kent,  for  the  same.  Berks. 

John  Harper  of  Banbury,  co.  Oxford,  '  gentilman,'  for  not  appearing 
to  answer  John  Blakborne,  citizen  and  '  sherman '  of  London, 
touching  a  debt  of  40*.  Middlesex. 

Thomas  Powkes  late  of  Leghton  Bossard,  co.  Bedford,  '  yoman,'  alias 
Thomas  Foukes  late  of  Leweton,  co.  Bedford,  alias  Thomas  Faukes 
late  of  Luton,  co.  Bedford,  for  not  appearing  to  answer  the  dean  and 
chapter  of  the  free  chapel  of  St.  Stephen  v>rithin  the  palace  of 
Westminster  touching  a  debt  of  14/.  and  William  Frenshe  of  Denham, 
CO.  Buckingham,  'husbondman,'  touching  a  debt  of  41.  Middlesex. 

John  Martyu  late  of  the  parish  of  Seynt  Madron,  co.  Cornwall, 
'  mil  ward,'  for  not  apjDearing  to  answer  a  plea  that  he  render  40*.  to 
Philip  Weke  and  Ralph  atte  Weke,  executors  of  the  will  of  John 
Weke.  Devon. 

Peter  Gosselyn  late  of  Redyng,  'pewetrer,'  for  not  appearing  to  answer 
Robert  Bagworth,  burgess  and  merchant  of  Southampton,  touching 
a  debt  of  100*. 

Laurence  Heler  late  of  Herne,  co.  Kent,  '  husbondman,'  for  not 
appearing  to  answer  .Lames  Hersyng,  William  Frye,  Thomas  Petyte 
and  Thomas  Abrygge  touching  a  trespass.  Kent. 

John  Lyle  of  Pulbarowe,  co.  Sussex,  esquire,  for  not  appearing  to 
answer  Isabel  Assheby,  widow,  and  Richard  Everley,  citizen  and 
mercer  of  London,  touching  a  debt  of  11/.  5s.  8d.  London. 

John  Philippz  late  of  Shrewsbury,  co.  Salop,  clerk,  alias  John 
Pheli[ipes,  '  courtholder,'  for  not  appearing  to  answer  Robert 
Gayton,  citizen  and  grocer  of  London,  and  John  Horde,  esquire, 
touching  debts  of  11/.  and  6/.  6s.  8d.  respectively. 

London  &  Salop. 


Membrane  25. 

Andrew  Ramerygge  of  Whethampstede,  co.  Hertford,  '  husbondman,' 
for  not  appearing  to  answer  Richard  Newedyk  of  the  town  of 
Westminster  touching  a  debt  of  29/.  Hertford. 

Richard  West  late  of  London,  '  tayllour,'  for  not  appearing  to  answer 
Thomas  Bodyn  of  London,  '  haberdassher,'  touching  a  trespass. 

Middlesex. 


8  EDWAKD  IV.— Part  I. 


81 


Membrane  25 — cont. 

John  William  late  of  Sydeburv,  co.  Devon,  '  giome,'  for  not  appearing 
when  sued  with  John  Tremayll  late  of  Sidebnry  the  elder,  '  gentil- 
man,' John  Tremiiyll  late  of  Sydebury  the  younger,  '  gentilman,' 
and  William  Cotteford  of  Sydebury,  '  husbondmau,'  before  Richard 
Neuton  and  his  fellows,  justices  of  the  Bench  of  the  late  king,  to 
answer  John  Ippecras  touching  a  trespass.  Devon. 

Thomas  Wylt(!shire  late  of  Wherwell,  co.  Southampton,  '  yoman,'  for 
not  appearing  before  the  justices  of  the  Bench  with  John  Snell  of 
Fullerton,  co.  Southampton,  the  younger,  '  huobondman,'  to  answer 
John  Boket  of  Hille,  co.  Southampton,  '  loder,'  touching  a 
conspiracy  against  him  at  Yatelby  between  them  and  John  Jue. 

Southampton. 

John  Yoi  k  of  Oddyston,  co.  Leicester,  *  husbondman,'  for  not 
appearing  when  sued  with  Henry  atte  Halle  of  Overton,  co. 
Leicester,  '  gentilman,'  Richard  Lewys  of  (Jddyston,  co.  Leicester, 
'  hu.sbondman,' and  Richard  Gaddesby  of  Shakeston,  co.  Leicester, 
'  husbondman,' before  John  Prysot  and  his  fellows,  justices  of  the 
Bench  of  the  late  king,  to  answer  Thomas  Burdet,  eocjuire,  touching 
a  trespass.  Wai  wick. 

John  Fareman,  late  of  Bytteswell,  co.  Leicester,  '  husbondman,'  for 
not  appearing  to  answer  Walter  Kebell  of  Reresby,  esquire,  alias 
'gentylman,'  touching  a  debt  of  74s.  Id.  London. 

John  Mallom  or  Malghum  of  Mallom,  co.  York,  '  gentilman,'  for 
not  appearing  before  Richard  Neuton  and  his  fellows,  justices  of 
the  Bench  of  the  late  king,  to  answer  Robert  Thornoure  touching  a 
debt  of  20/.  London. 

Henry  Plummer  of  Bristol,  '  plummer,'  for  not  appearing  before  John 
Prysot  and  his  fellow  s,  justices  of  the  Bench  of  the  late  king,  to 
answer  Richard  Walwayn  touching  a  debt  of  40*.  London. 

John  Streche  of  the  soke  of  Winchester,  '  wever,'  for  not  appearing  to 
answer  brother  Richard  fJaryngton  and  Henry  Robard  of  Olde 
Bayly  by  London,  '  browederer,'  touching  a  debt  of  GO5.  Jliddlesex. 

John  Hudson  of  Leke,  co.  Lincoln,  '  yonian,'  administrator  of  the 
goods  of  Richard  Hudson,  who  died  intestate,  for  not  appearing 
before  the  justices  of  (he  Bench  to  answer  a  plea  that  he  render  10/. 
to  Thomas  Kyme.  Lincoln, 

John  Warner,  laic  of  High  Ongre,  co.  Essex,  'yoman,'  for  not 
appearing  to  .answer  Isabel  Bradfeld  touching  a  debt  of  10  marks. 

Middlesex. 

Henry  Cramwell  of  Evertou,  co.  Huntingdon,  '  potter,'  for  not 
appearing  to  answer  Robert  Tanfeld  the  younger  touching  a 
trespass  (lomtuitled  by  him  and  Benedict  Newman  of  Everton, 
chaplain,  John  Roger,  lale  of  Oundell,  co.  Northani|)ton,  '  yoman,' 
John  Preston  of  Everton,  '  husbondiiian,'  John  Naseby  of  Loudon, 
'  gentilman,'  and  John  Cramewell  of  Kverlon,  '  potter.'  Bedford. 

Hugh  Camell  of  Bro(lelicud)ury,  co.  Devon,  '  husbondman,'  for  not 
api)earing  to  answer  John  Otery,  abbot  of  Dunkyswyll,  touching  a 
debt  of  28/.  Devon. 

Hugh  Welly s,  late  of  Conyngesby  by  Cateshale,  co.  Lincoln,  notary 
public,  for  not  appearing  to  answer  a  ])lea  that  he  render  100  marks 
to  Master  John  Peniberton  of  Ihe  Chancery,  William  Notyngham 
and  Ralph  Beare,  executors  of  the  will  of  Msister  Richard  Ewen, 
clerk,  alias  archdeacon  of  Lincoln.  London. 

F 


82 


CALENDAIl  OF  PATENT  ROLLS. 


1469. 

Feb.  10. 
Westminster. 

Feb.  10. 
Westminster. 


Feb.  G. 
Westminster. 

1468. 

Oct.  18. 

Westminster. 


1469. 

Jan.  25. 
Westminster. 


Jan.  29. 
Westminster. 

1468. 
Oct.  17. 

Westminster. 

1469. 

Feb.  10, 
Westminster. 

1468. 

Nov.  5. 
Westminster. 


Membrane  25 — cont. 

Wistan  Brown,  laic  of  Oxford,  clerk,  for  not  appearing  to  answer 
John  Walton,  abbot  of  the  monastery  of  St.  Marj,  Osenev,  touching 
a  debt  of  63.9.  \d.  '  Oxford. 

Nicholas  Hert,  citizen  and  grocer  of  London,  for  not  appearing  to 
answer  a  plea  that  he  render  4/.  13s.  '\d.  to  William  Filz  Water 
of  London,  '  gentilman,'  and  John  Martyn,  mercer,  citizen  of 
London,  executors  of  the  will  of  Elias  Davy,  citizen  and  mercer 
of  London.  London. 

John  Mores  of  Glapthorne,  co.  Northampton,  esquire,  for  not 
appearing  to  answer  John  Roberdys  touching  a  debt  of  40s. 

Middlesex. 

Andrew  Groton  of  Fyncheley,  co.  Middlesex,  '  gentilman,'  for  not 
appeai-ing  before  Richard  Nenton  and  his  fellows,  justices  of  the 
Lench  of  the  late  king,  to  answer  Simon  Merable,  citizen  and 
'  tolossour  '  of  London,  touching  a  debt  of  5  marks,  3«.  4(7. 

London. 

John  Dryng,  late  of  Neuton  by  Wyntryngham,  co.  York,  'yoraan,'  for 
not  appearing  when  sued  with  Richard  Dryng,  late  of  Neuton  by 
Wyntryngham,  '  husboudman,'  before  the  king  to  answer  William 
Mannyng  touching  a  trespass.  Middlesex. 

Edmund  Cook,  late  of  Asshby,  co.  Norfolk,  '  yoman,'  for  not 
appearing  before  the  justices  of  the  Bench  to  answer  John  Newport 
touching  a  debt  of  40/.  Suffolk. 

Robert  Whitwell,  of  Manton,  co.  Rutland,  '  husbondman,'  for  not 
appearing  to  answer  John  Caldon  touching  a  debt  of  40s.  Oxford. 

Robert  Geryng,  late  of  Suthwerk,  co.  Surrey,  '  carpynter,'  for  not 
appearing  to  answer  Thomas  Youg  touching  a  debt  of  40s. 

Middlesex. 

Thomas  Hogekyns  of  Armeston  in  the  parish  of  Stowe,  co.  Stafford, 
'  hu.sbondman,'  for  not  appearing  to  answer  Walter  Wrottesley, 
knight,  touching  a  debt  of  lOZ.  Stafford. 


Membrane  24. 

April  28.  Grant  to  John  Rogger  of  London,  in  repayment  of  the  sum  of  200/.  due 
Dogmersfield.  to  him  from  the  king,  as  appears  by  18  tallies  levied  at  the  receipt  of  the 
Exchequer,  of  50/.  yearly  from  Michaelmas  next  from  the  issues  of  the 
bailiwick  of  the  hundreds,  of  Estflegge,  Westflegge,  Happyng,  Taverham, 
Biofeld,  Walsham  and  Humlyerd,  in  the  counties  of  Norfolk  and  Suffolk, 
and  20/.  yearly  from  Michaelmas  next  from  the  issues  of  the  county  of 
Gloucester,  until  he  be  fully  satisfied.  By  p.s. 

May  28.  General  pardon  to  Nicholas  Frensshe  of  Dawlisshe,  co.  Devon, 
Westminster.  '  frankeleyn,'  alias  *  husbondman,'  alias  '  yoman.'  By  p.s. 

June  1.         Grant  for  life  to  John  Stanley,  knight,  and  Humphrey  Stanley  his  sou 
Westminster,  of  the  office  of  ranger  of  the  king's  forest  of  Oank,  receiving  fees  as  in  the 
times  of  Edward  HI.  and  Richard  II.  fiom  the  issues  of  the  county  of 
Stafford,  in  lieu  of  a  like  grant  to  Roger  Pye,  late  yeoman  of  the  chamber 
of  the  king's  father,  by  letters  patent,  surrendered.  By  p.s. 


8  EDWARD  IV.— Part  I. 


83 


1 468.  Membrane  24 — cont. 

May  27.  General  parflon  to  Roger  Corke  of  Feversliaui,  co.  Kent,  'osteler,'  of  all 
W'lsdiiinsier.  offences  committed  hy  him  before  20  May.  By  p.s. 

June  10.        Pardon  to  Malcolm  Walwyn,  esquire,  late  escheator  in  the  county  of 
Westminster.  Hereford  and  the  marches  of  Wales  adjacent,  of  all  offences  committed  by 
him  and  all  fines,  amercements,  issues,  reliefs,  debts,  accounts  and  arrears 
due  from  him  to  the  king  before  6  June.  By  p.s. 

June  12.  Grant  for  life  to  John  Swancote  of  Bristol  of  a  moiety  of  the  manor  of 
Westminster.  Belton,  co.  Somerset,  late  of  James,  late  earl  of  Wiltshire,  and  in  tlie  king's 
hands  by  his  forfeiture,  to  hold  with  rents,  courts,  views  of  frank-pledge 
and  other  appurtenances  by  the  services  of  as  many  knights'  fees,  and  as 
many  other  rents  and  services  as  they  were  held  by  before  4  March, 
1  Edward  IV.  By  p.s. 

June  14.  Grant  for  life  to  Thomas  Trefry  of  Fowey,  esquire,  of  10  marks  yearly 
Westminster,  from  Michaelmas,  6  Edward  IV.  from  the  issues  of  the  duchy  of  Cornwall. 

By  p.s. 

Like  grant  to  William  Hourde,  esquire.  By  p.s. 

Grant  for  life  to  the  king's  servant  William  Wor.seley,  esquire,  from 
Miciiaelmas,  6  Edward  IV.  from  which  date  lie  has  held  the  olficc,  of  the 
office  of  bailiff  of  the  scevage  (^skui  agii)  of  the  town  of  Calais  and  the 
island  of  Colne,  receiving  at  his  own  hands  such  fees  as  Richard  Stanlak, 
then  bailiff,  had  in  the  year  9  Richard  11.  with  all  other  accustomed  protils. 

By  p.s. 

Vacated  by  surrender  awl  cancelled. 

June  15.       Licence  for  Ferricus  de  Clugniaco,  doctor  of  either  law,  archdeacon  of 
Westminster.  Faverney,  born  in  the  parts  of  Burgundy,  to  receive  and  hold  benefices, 
offices,  prebends  and  dignities  in  churches  within  the  realm.  By  K. 

April  3.  General  pardon  to  John  Clerk  alias  Mascin  late  of  Wiitoii,  co.  Norfolk, 
Westminster.  <  yoman,'  o(  all  offences  committed  by  him  before  2')  September  last. 

By  p.s. 


Membrane  23. 

March  20.  Pardon  to  John,  duke  of  Norfolk,  and  Elizabeth  his  wife  of  all  donations, 
Westminster,  alienations  and  perquisitions  by  them  of  land  held  in  chief.  By  p.s. 

March  28.  Appointment,  during  pleasure,  of  .lohn  Longe  as  ganger  in  the  port  of 
Westminster.  Sandwich  and  ports  and  places  adjacent,  receiving  the  accustomed  fees. 

By  bill  of  the  treasurer. 

April  1.        General  pardon  to  Avered  alias  Alvered  Massy  late  of  London,  clia|)lain, 
Westminster,  alias  clerk,  alias  late  of  Cambridge,  of  all  offences  committed  by  him  before 
26  March  last.  "  By  p.s. 

May  12.  Licence  for  Robert  Ogle,  knigiit,  lord  of  Ogle  and  Thuresby,  and  Isabel 
Westminster,  his  wife  to  grant  in  fraidc  almoin  to  the  prior  and  canons  regular  of  the 
cathedral  church  of  St.  Mary,  Carlisle,  a  messuage  and  4  acres  of  land  in 
Thuresby,  co.  Cumberland,  wliieh  Gilbert  de  la  Rympie  holds  of  the  said 
Robert  at  will,  and  the  advowson  and  ])atronag('  of  the  parish  church  of 
St.  Andrew,  Thuresby,  held  in  chief ;  and  i'or  the  said  prior  and  canons  to 
api>ropriate  the  said  church,  and  serve  it  by  a  canon  of  their  cathedral  or 
any  other  suitable  chaplain,  without  endowment  of  a  vicarage  in  the  church 
or  compulsion  to  distribute  a  yearly  sum  of  money  to  the  poor  of  the  parish  ; 
and  also  for  the  said  Robert  and  Isabel  lo  grant  in  frank  almoin  to  the  said 
prior  and  canons,  common  of  pasture  for  40  animals,  and  estover  of  timber, 
trees,  wood  and  underwood  for  the  repair  of  the  said  messuage  and  the 

F  2 


84 


CALENDAR  OF  PATENT  ROLLS. 


1468.  Membrane 'IZ — cont. 

enclosure  of  the  said  luad,  and  underwood  and  turf  for  burning  within  the 
said  messuage  within  the  lordship  or  manor  of  Thureaby.  By  p.s. 

May  20.  Licence,  for  26*.  8c?.  paid  by  him  in  the  hanaper,  for  William  Knyght, 
Westniiiister.  clei  k,  to  grant  a  messuage,  u  carucate  and  a  half  of  land  and  385.  I  If/  rent 
in  Chaldebourne  and  the  advowson  of  the  chapel  of  St.  Margaret  in  the 
same  town,  held  in  chief,  to  Walter  Changton  for  life  with  remainders  to 
William,  son  and  heir  of  the  latter,  and  Matilda  his  wife  and  the  heirs  of 
their  bodies  and  in  default  of  such  heirs  to  the  right  heirs  of  the  said  Walter. 

May  22.  Commission  by  mainprise  of  Thomas  Baxster  of  London,  '  gentilman,' 
Westminster,  and  John  Myndrym  of  the  same,  'g3ntilman,'  to  John  Burell,  'gentilman,' 
of  the  custody  of  the  temporalities  of  the  bishopric  of  Carlisle  from  the 
time  of  the  death  of  Richard  Scrope,  last  bishop,  so  long  as  they  remain  in 
the  king's  hands,  rendering  to  the  king  an  extent  to  be  agreed  upon  Avith 
the  treasurer  of  England  before  the  octave  of  Michaelmas  next  and 
supporting  all  charges,    [jpter/e^-a.]  By  K. 

May  21.        Exemption  for  life  of  John  Denissh,  esquire,  from  being  put  on  assizes, 
Westmiuster.  juries,  recognisances,  attaints  or  inquisitions  and  from  being  made  sheritf, 
escheator,  coroner,  mayor,  bailiff',  constable,  collector  of  tenths,  fifteenths, 
tallages  or  other  subsidies  or  other  officer  or  minister  of  the  king  against 
his  will.  By  p.s. 

May  24.        Grant  for  life  to  William  Boket  of  Salisbury  of  the  custody  of  the  smaller 
Westminster,  piece  of  the  seal  for  the  recognisances  of  debts  according  to  the  form  of  the 
statute  at  Acton  liurnell  for  merchants  in  the  city  of  Salisbury,  receiving 
the  accustomed  fees  in  the  same  manner  as  Henry  Upton,  deceased. 

By  p.s. 

June  17.        Licence  for  William  Melros,  chaplain,  born  in  Scotland,  to  dwell  within 
Westminster,  the  realm  as  a  subject  of  the  king  and  to  receive  and  be  admitted  to 
ecclesiastical  benefices  under  the  dignity  of  a  deanery  and  to  enjoy  his 
goods.  By  K. 


3IEMBRANE  22. 

March  16.       Grant  for  life  to  the  king's  servant  Richard  Laurence,  clerk  of  the 
Westmiuster.  scullery,  of  the  office  of  bailiff  of  the  water  of  Severn  from  Bratlien  to 
Worcester  bridge  with  all  accustomed  profits,  waifs  and  strays,  in  the  same 
manner  as  Walter  Chamberlaine  or  any  other  person  had  the  office. 

By  p.s.  [2371.] 

March  17.      Grant  for  life  to  the  king's  servant  Nicholas  Clyvele,  one  of  the  yeoman 
Westminster,  of  the  crown,  of  6d,  daily  lor  his  fee  from  24  December,  3  Edward  IV.  from 
which  day  he  has  exercised  the  office,  from  the  fee-farm  of  the  town  of 
Northampton.  By  p.s. 

March  19.  Whereas  on  Friday  after  St.  Margaret,  Virgin,  7  Edward  IV.  at 
Westminster.  Yevelchestre,  Thomas  Lyte  of  Lytescary,  co.  Somerset,  '  gentilman,'  Richard 
Claveleshay  of  Southpederton,  co.  Somerset,  '  gentilman,'  .John  Case  of  the 
same,  'gentilman'  and  William  Clayton  of  Trent,  co.  Somerset,  '  gentilman,' 
made  mainprise  before  Walter  Moyle,  knight,  Tlioiuas  Youge  and  John 
Wydeslade,  justices  appointed  to  deliver  the  gaol  of  Yevelchestre,  for  John 
Walford  of  Yevelchestre,  '  yoman,'  viz.  the  latter  under  penalty  of  2(i0/.  and 
each  of  his  mainpernors  under  penalty  of  100/.  to  have  the  body  of  the  said 
John  before  them  on  Friday  after  St.  Matthias  last,  which  they  did  not  do; 
the  Iting  liereby  pardons  to  the  said  William  the  said  100/.  thus  forfeited  by 
him.  By  p.s. 

March  25.  Grant  lor  life  to  Richard  Birde,  priest,  on  the  surrender  by  William 
Westminster.  Preston  of  like  letteris  patent,  that  he  be  one  of  the  chaplains  of  the  king's 


8  EDWARD  IV.— Part  I. 


85 


1468. 


March  28. 
Westminster. 


May  12. 

Westminster. 


May  9. 
Westminster. 


May  23. 
Westminster. 


May  22. 
Westmiiister. 


Membrane  22 — cont. 

m 

cliaiitry  of  St.  Mary  witliin  the  manor  of  Wodestoko,  co.  Oxford,  to  celebrate 
divine  service  for  the  kinj^  and  his  progenitors,  receiving  10  marks  yearly 
for  his  salary  from  the  issues  of  the  manor  and  the  king's  hundred  of 
Wotton,  CO.  Oxford,  with  the  accustomed  mansions,  fuel  and  profits. 

By  p.s. 

Whereas  Simon  Hareby  of  Thurlby,  co.  Lincoln,  escjuire,  was  outlawed 
in  London  on  Moufiay  after  St.  Chad,  5  Edward  IV.  at  the  suit  of  Humphrey 
Bourchier,  knight,  lord  Cromewell,  on  a  plei  of  debt,  and  afterwards,  on 
2  July,  7  Edward  IV.  John  Forster  and  \\  iiliam  Kerver  were  indebted  to 
him  in  the  sum  of  16G/.  13s.  4d.  to  be  paid  at  the  Purification  then 
following,  for  which  they  are  accordingly  chargeable  to  the  king  ;  the  king 
hereby  grants  to  William  Hastinge.s,  knight,  lord  of  Hastinges,  the  said 
sum  and  all  other  sums  of  Baoney,  debts,  goods  and  other  things  late  of  the 
said  Simon.  By  p.s. 

Pardon,  for  5  marks  to  be  paid  in  the  hanaper,  to  Kichard,  earl  of  Warwick, 
John,  earl  of  Noithumbcrland,  Robert  IJanby,  knight,  Robert  Ascough, 
doctor  in  decrees,  John  Ascough,  esquire,  Richard  Ascough,  'gentilman,' 
and  Richard  Jenkynson,  chaplain,  for  all  grants,  alienations  and  acquisitions 
of  the  manor  of  Stalyngbourgh  called  '  Arsy  Mancr  in  Stalyngbourgh,'  co. 
Lincoln,  held  in  chief,  and  all  fines  and  forfeitures  due  to  the  king  on 
account  of  their  acquisition  of  the  manor  and  grant  to  them  of  all  issues 
of  the  manor  from  the  time  of  its  being  taken  into  the  king's  hands. 

By  p.s. 

General  pardon  to  William  Brandon  late  of  Sathwerk,  co.  Surrey, 
esquire,  nliax  marshal  of  the  Marshalsea,  of  all  offences  committed  by  him 
before  4  April  last  and  all  escapes  of  felons  before  that  date.  By  p.s. 

Exenqjlification,  at  the  retjuest  of  William  Broun,  clerk,  of  letters  patent 
dated  21  March,  G  Edward  IV.  granting  to  him  the  custody  of  the  house 
or  chapel  called  '  le  priory  hermitage '  by  Dorcestre,  co.  Dorset.  These 
letters  have  been  casually  lost,  as  he  has  taken  oath  in  Chancery,  and  will 
be  surrendered  if  found. 

Grant  for  life  to  Richard  Harecourt,  knight,  in  consideration  of  his 
labour  and  diligence  in  rosi-iting  the  malice  of  certain  traitors  in  the  comity 
of  Oxford,  of  20/.  from  the  issues  of  the  counties  of  Oxford  and  Berks. 

By  p.s. 


Mbmbranb  21. 

May  29.  Grant  to  Henry  Waver,  knight,  in  repayment  of  the  sum  of  500/.  due  to 
Westminster,  him  from  the  king  by  a  tally  levied  at  the  receipt  of  the  Exchecjuer  at 
Westminster,  20  July,  Edward  IV.  by  the  treasurer  of  England  for 
moneys  lent,  delivered  by  Walter  nlount,  knight,  lord  Mountjoye,  then 
treasurer,  for  certain  sums  of  money  in  which  he  was  indebted  to  the  said 
Henry,  that  he  and  Thomas  Pounde,  William  Kerver  and  John  Rogger  or 
their  executors,  factors,  attorneys,  deputies  or  assigns  may  ship  sacks  of 
wool,  at  the  rate  of  4  marks  and  no  more  on  each  sack  for  custom  and 
subsidy,  and  other  merchandise,  not  being  wools  or  wool-fell:^,  in  any  ports 
•  of  the  realm  and  take  them  to  foreign  parts  by  the  straits  of  Marrok  and 

bring  back  inerchandise  from  foreign  parts  quit  of  customs  and  subsidies 
until  he  shall  be  fully  satisfied.  By  p.s. 

May  30.        Grant  for  life  to  Humphrey  Stafford,  lord  Stafford  of  Suthwyke,  knight, 
Westminster,  of  the  reversion  of  the  oflices  of  master  forester  of  the  king's  forests  of 
Exmore,  co.  Devon,  and  Racche,  co.  Somerset,  on  the  death  of  William 
Bourghchier  of  Fitz  Wareyn,  knight,  to  whom  they  were  granted  for  life  b. 
letters  patent  dated  10  ]\Iay,  1  Edward  IV.  By  p.s, 


86 


CALENDAR  OF  PATENT  ROL  S. 


1468.  .     Membrane  21 — cont. 

March  24.  Appointmeut  for  life  of  Robert  Bradbury  as  one  of  the  king's  serjeants- 
Westminster.  at-arms,  with  wages  of  \2d.  daily  from  the  issues  of  the  county  of  Lincoln 
and  a  coat  of  the  king's  livery  yearly  at  Christmas  at  tlie  great  wardrobe  of 
the  same  suit  and  cloth  as  other  Serjeants  at  arms ;  in  lieu  of  a  grant  to 
him  of  the  same  with  wages  by  the  hands  of  the  treasurer  by  letters  piiteiit 
dated  12  February,  4  Edward  IV.  surrendered.  By  p.s. 

April  20.  Pardon  to  Ralph  Leegh  and  Henry  Rediche,  chaplains  of  the  chantry  of 
inersfield.  St.  Katharine  in  the  parish  church  of  St.  Mary  the  Virgin,  Eccles,  Peter 
Halsted  and  John  Worthiugton,  chaplains  of  the  chantry  of  Jesus  and  St. 
Mary  in  the  parish  church  of  Eccles,  Robert  Clyfton,  knight,  Richard  Bothe, 
esquire,  Seth  Worsley,  esquire,  Roger  Radcliff,  clerk,  William  Worsley,  clerk, 
John  Wardale,  clerk,  and  Thomas  Orstou  for  all  offences  committed  by 
them  ill  seeking,  accepting,  receiving  or  publishing  any  apostolic  letters, 
bulls,  sentences  of  excommunication  or  other  instruments  contrary  to  the 
form  ot  the  statute  of  provisors ;  and  grant  that  they  may  receive  and 
publish  any  such  already  granted  to  them.  By  p.s. 


Membrane  20. 

March  19.       Grant  to  Henry  Bremercombe,  chaplain,  of  the  perpetual  chantry  in  the 
Westminster,  parish  church  of  Nsuton  Popelford,  co.  Devon,  with  all  its  rigiits  and 
appurtenances. 

March  19.       Appointment,  until  29  September  next,  of   Richard  More,  esquire, 
Westminster.  Serjeant  of  the  eatery  (catarie)  of  the  household,  to  purvey  salt  and  fresh 
water  fish  for  the  expenses  of  the  household. 

By  bill  of  the  treasurer  of  the  household. 

March  23.  Letters  of  denization  for  John  Donne  of  the  town  of  Calais,  born  in  the 
AVestmiuster.  parts  of  Picardy,  and  the  heirs  of  his  body. 

By  p.s.  and  for  1  mark  paid  in  the  hanaper. 

April  1.        Pardon  to  Thomas  Lyte  of  Lytescary,  co.  Somerset,  'gentilmau,'  Richard 
Westminster.  Clavcleshay  of  Southepederton,  co.  Somerset,  '  gentilman,'  and  John  Case  of 
the  same,  'gentilman,'  of  all  the  forfeitures  due  from  them  to  the  king  because 
they  did  not  hold  John  Walford  before  the  justices  appointed  to  deliver  the 
gaol  of  Yevelchestre,  as  they  made  mainprise  to  do  [see  p.  84).         By  p.s. 

April  1.        Grant  for  life  to  the  king's  servant  John  Walforde,  yeoman  of  the  king's 
Westminster,  chamber,  of  the  ofEce  of  the  custody  of  the  king's  gaol  of  Ylcestre, 
CO.  Somerset,  with  the  accustomed  profits.  By  p.s. 

March  30.  Grant  to  the  abbot,  prior  and  convent  of  tlie  abbey  of  St.  Mary, 
Westminster.  St.  Benedict  and  all  Holy  Virgins,  Rainesey,  which  is  of  the  foundation  of 
the  king's  progenitors  and  of  the  king's  patronage,  that  the  prior  and 
convent  shall  have  the  custody  of  the  abbey  and  its  possessions  during 
voidance,  rendering  at  the  Exchequer  40/.  for  every  such  voidance,  and 
that  no  sheriff,  escheator,  bailiff'  or  minister  of  the  king  shall  interfere 
except  to  take  simple  seisin  at  the  gate  of  the  abbey.  By  p.s. 

March  21.       General  pardon  to  David  ap  Howel  ap  Griff  ap  Tudor.  By  p.s. 

Westminster. 

Membrane  19. 

April  H.         Grant  for  life  to  the  king's  servant  Jaqucs  Haulte.  esquire,  one  of  the 
Dogmcrsfield.  '  kervers  '  (daptcidnriorum)  of  the  king's  consort,  the  queen  of  England, 
of  the  manor  of  Bukland,  co.  Hertford,  not  exceeding  tlie  yearly  value  of 
10/.  which  of  long  time  past  was  given  in  jointure  by  the  lord  of  Roos  to 
the  duchess  of  Somerset,  then  his  wife,  by  whose  death  and  by  virtue  of 


8  EDWARD  IV.— Part  I. 


87 


Membrane  19 — cont. 

an  act  of  attainder  in  Parliament  at  Westminster,  3  December,  1  Edward  IV. 
it  came  into  ihd  king's  hands.  By  p.s.  [2398.] 

Vacated  by  surrender  and  cancelled  by  mandate  of  the  king  to  Robert, 
bishop  of  Bath  and  Wells,  the  chancellor,  and  Robert  Kirkeham, 
clerk,  keejier  of  the  rolls,  by  tvrif  of  privy  seal  dated  10  December, 
8  Edward  J  V. 

March  28.  Letters  of  denization  for  Laurence  Swarfelde,  merchant,  born  in  Antwerp, 
Westmin.ster.  and  his  offspring.  By  p.s.  and  for  ^  mark  paid  in  the  hanaper. 

April  10.  Pardon  to  William  Eeynolde  and  Joan  his  wife,  late  the  wife  of  George 
Dogmcr.-jfiold.  House,  tenant  in  chief,  for  intermarrying  without  licence.  By  p.s. 

April  14.  General  pardon  to  Thomas  Vanghau  alias  Vaghan,  esquire,  late  of  London, 
Dogniersfield.  es((uire  of  the  body  and  treasurer  of  the  king's  chamber,  keeper  of  the 
great  wardrobe  of  the  late  king,  one  of  the  mainpernors  of  Jaspar,  late  earl 
of  Pembroke,  tenant  of  tiic  lands  late  of  Thom.as  Broune,  knight,  late 
sheriff  of  Kent,  and  administrator  of  his  goods,  late  sheriff  of  Surrey  and 
Sussex,  and  one  of  the  justices  of  the  peace  in  the  counties  of  Surrey, 
Sussex  and  Kent,  of  all  offences  committed  by  him  and  all  fines,  amerce- 
ments, issues,  debts,  accounts  and  arrears  due  from  him  to  the  king. 

By  K. 

April  18.        General  pardon  to  Nicholas  Saundre  alias  Bylton  of  Sandwich,  co.  Kent, 
Dogmersfiuld.  'yoman,'  late  one  of  the  constables  of  the  town  of  Sandwich,  for  all  offences 
committed  by  him  before  31  March.  ]}y  p.p. 

April  20.        General  pardon  to  William  Swyfle  late  of  London,  'couper,'  alias 
Doguiersfiekl.  '  sargeant,'  alias  late  of  Westminster,  co.  Middlesex,  '  yoman,'  for  all  offences 
committed  by  him  before  7  April.  By  p.s. 

April  22.  Grant  to  Bobert  Tooke  of  London,  '  iremongci  ,'  in  consideration  of  his 
Uogiuersfitld.  expenses  in  the  victualling,  fitting,  strengthening  and  salvation  of  the 
king's  ship  called  le  Maryarete  of  Ipeswiche,  that  he  or  liis  executors, 
factors  or  attorneys  may  ship  wools  in  any  vessels  in  any  ports  of  the 
realm  by  the  straits  of  Marrok  and  woollen  cloths  and  other  mcrchjiudise 
not  pertaining  to  the  staple  of  Calais  (piit  of  customs  and  subsidies  to  the 
sum  of  967/.  lis.  3rf.  By  p.s. 

April  4.         Grant  for  life  to  the  king's  .servitor  William  Tunstallc,  escjuire,  of  a 
Westminster,  yearly  rent  of  20/.  from  Michaelmas  last,  viz.  10/.  from  the  issues  of  the 
county  of  Butland  and  10/.  from  the  issues  of  the  county  of  Wilts. 

By  p.s. 

April.  2.5.       General  pardon  to  William  Vowell  of  Oxford,  scholar,  alias  \^'illiam 
DogiiRTsfkld.  Vowelle  the  younger  late  of  Welles,  co.  Somerset,  '  gentilinan,'  for  all 
offences  committed  by  him  before  1  January  last.  By  p.s. 

April  29.        General  pardon  to  ilumphrey  Ilayford  and  Robert  Harding  of  London, 
Doguit-r.-^field.  goldsmiths,  of  all  offences  committed   by   them    before  20  April  until 
Michaelmas  last  («'<•)  and  all  debts,  accounts  and  arrears  due  to  the  king. 

By  p.s. 


1468. 


MRMnRAyi'.  18. 

May  21.        Grant  for  life  to  the  king's  servant  Roland  Forster  of  the  custody  of  the 
Westminster,  honours  of  Boulogne,  Peverel  and  Ilagnot  in  the  counties  of  Norfolk, 
Suffolk,  Essex,  Hertford,  Surrey  and  Cambridge  with  all  issues  from 
29  October,  5  Edward  IV.  without  rendering  anything  to  the  king;  in  lieu 
of  the  commission  to  him  and  ,lohn  Wliile,  now  deceased,  by  I.  tler.'«  patent 


88 


CALENDAR  OF  PATENT  ROLLS. 


1468. 


1467. 

Nov.  15. 
Westminster. 


1468. 

May  24. 
Westminster. 


May  27. 
Westminster. 


June  5. 
Westminster. 


Membrane  18 — cont. 

of  that  date,  surrendered,  of  the  custody  of  the  said  honours  in  the  counties 
of  Norfolk,  Suffolk,  Essex,  Hertford  and  Surrey  by  mainprise  of  John  Lane, 
'  yoman,'  and  William  Coterell,  '  yoman,'  both  of  the  parish  of  St.  Clement 
Danes  without  the  bar  of  the  New  Temple,  London,  to  hold  with  all  issues  for 
ten  years,  rendering  to  the  king  6  marks  yearly  and  supporting  all  charges. 

By  p.s. 

Grant  for  life  to  Edward  Berkeley,  esquire,  in  lien  of  a  like  grant  by 
letters  patent  dated  26  April  last,  surrendered  because  invalid,  of  the  office 
of  bailifT  of  Burley  in  the  New  Forest,  co.  Southampton,  receiving  4rf. 
daily  from  the  said  26  April  from  tiie  issues  of  the  county  of  Southampton, 
with  all  other  profits  of  the  office.  By  ps. 

Vacated  because  in  the  seventh  year. 

Licence  for  John  Markham,  knight,  chief  justice  of  the  King's  Bench, 
or  his  heirs,  executors  or  assigns  to  found  a  perpetual  chantry  of  one 
chaplain  to  celebrate  divine  service  daily  at  the  altar  of  SS.  Mary,  Michael 
the  Archangel,  John  the  Baptist  and  John  the  Evangelist  in  the  parish  church 
of  Segbroke,  co.  Lincoln,  for  the  good  estate  of  the  king  and  his  consort 
Elizabeth,  queen  of  England,  and  the  said  John  and  for  their  souls  after 
death,  to  be  called  '  Markham  Chaunterye,'  and  to  grant  lands,  rents,  services 
and  other  possessions,  not  held  in  chief,  to  the  yearly  value  of  JO  marks,  in 
mortmain  to  the  sai<l  chaplain  for  his  support. 

By  K.  and  for  II/.  lis.  paid  in  the  hanaper. 

Exemption  for  life  of  John  Stokys  of  Begynhill,  co.  Oxford,  esquire, 
from  being  put  on  assizes,  juries,  recognizances,  attaints  or  inquisitions  and 
from  being  made  knight,  justice,  bailiff,  escheator,  coroner,  sheriff, 
constable,  reeve,  collector,  taxer  or  controller  of  tenths,  fifteenths  or  other 
subsidies,  or  officer,  commissioner  or  minister  of  the  king  against  his  will. 

By  K. 

The  like  of  William  Chapman  of  Sudbury,  co.  Suffolk,  'gentilman,'  fi  om 
being  put  on  assizes,  juries,  certifications,  inquisitions,  attaints,  perambu- 
lations or  recognisances  and  from  being  made  trier  of  the  same,  from  being- 
put  on  any  great  assize,  from  being  made  mayor,  sheriff,  escheator,  coroner, 
justice,  surveyor,  taxer,  assessor,  collector  or  controller  of  tenths,  fifteenths 
or  other  subsidies,  constable,  decenner,  arrayer,  trier  or  leader  of  men  at 
arms,  or  bailiff,  officer  or  minister  of  the  king,  and  from  being  compelled  to 
take  knighthood  against  his  will.  By  p.s. 


Membrane  17. 

May  10.  Grant  to  the  king's  servants  John  Rogger  and  William  Kcrver  and 
Westminster,  their  heirs  or  executors,  in  repayment  of  the  sum  of  219/.  2.3f/.  kni 
by  them  to  the  king,  of  20/.  yearly  from  the  issues  of  the  counties  of 
Cambridge  and  Huntingdon,  20  marks  yearly  from  the  issues  of  the  county 
of  Kent,  20/.  yearly  from  the  issues  of  the  county  of  Cornwall,  20  marks 
yearly  from  the  issues  of  the  county  of  Cumberland,  20  marks  yearly  from 
the  issues  of  the  counties  of  Warwick  and  Leicester  and  20  marks  yearly 
from  the  issues  of  the  county  of  Rutland,  until  they  be  fully  satisfied  of  the 
said  sum.  By  p  s. 

Grant  for  life  to  the  king's  brother  George,  duke  of  Clarence,  of  the 
king's  castle  and  lordship  of  Quenesburgh  in  the  Isle  of  Chepey,  co.  Kent. 

By  p.s. 


May  7. 
Westminster. 


8  EDWARD  IV  Part  I. 


S9 


1408. 
May  IG. 

Westminster. 


May  14. 
VVestiuinstcr. 


May  19. 
Westminster. 


Membrane  17 — cont. 

Presentation  of  Christopher  Burgh,  parson  of  the  parish  church  of 
Syglesthorne,  in  the  diocese  of  York,  to  the  parish  church  of  Scrayngham, 
in  tlie  same  diocese,  on  an  exchange  of  benefices  with  Richard  Blome. 

By  p.s. 

Exemption  for  life  of  John  Bcllars,  esquire,  from  being  put  on  assizes, 
juries,  inquisitions,  attaints  or  refiognisances  and  from  being  made  justice  of 
the  peace,  of  sewers,  oyer  and  terminer,  gaol  delivery  or  the  forest  or  other 
commissioner  or  inquisitor  of  the  king,  admiral,  mayor,  guardian  sheriff, 
escheator,  coroner,  steward,  bailiff,  reeve,  receiver,  customer,  controller, 
taxer,  alnager,  searcher,  gauger,  approver  or  collector  of  subsidies  or  aids, 
constable,  warden,  marshal,  usher,  leader,  arrayer  or  trier  of  men  at  arms, 
hobelers  or  archers,  or  other  officer  or  minister  of  the  king  against  his  will. 

By  p.s. 

Appointment,  until  19  November,  of  John  More,  esquire,  to  purvey  beeves, 
muttons,  salt  and  fresh-water  fish  and  other  necessaries  pertaining  lo  the 


May  25. 

Westminster. 

May  30. 

Wo£tininster. 


By  bill  of  the  treasurer  of  the  household. 


office  of  buyer  of  the  household. 

The  like  of  the  following  : — 
Henry  Forthe. 
Richard  Exston. 
Thomas  Waller. 

General  pardon  to  John  Gise  lale  of  Winchel.sc,  '  bcre-bruer,'  for  all 
offences  committed  by  him  before  2  April  last.  By  p.s. 

Grant  to  .John  Wilton,  clerk,  of  the  chapel  and  hospital  of  Crossechirch 
in  the  suburbs  of  the  town  of  Colcestre  with  all  its  right.*,  profits,  and 
emoluments  in  the  same  manner  as  William  Kylwilmerssh,  clerk,  had  the 
same.  By  K. 


Memuhase  16. 

June  4.        Appointment,  until  4  December,  of  John  Buknell,  yeoman  of  the  ollice 
Westminster,  of  the  bakery  of  the  household,  to  purvey  whejit  and  otlicr  necessaries  lor 
the  bakery.  By  bill  of  the  treasurer  of  the  household. 

•June  8.         Grant  for  life  to  the  king's  mother  Cicely  of  the  manor  of  Xewehalle  and 
Westminster,  divers  specified  lands,  to  hold  from  the  death  of  the  king's  father.      By  p.s. 
Vacated  because  nothing  was  done  thereon  and  otherxcise  Leloic. 

•Tune  2.         Presentation  of  John  Riknian,  chaplain,  to  the  parish  churcii  of  Hove- 
Westminster.  kirke  in  the  parts  of  Picardy,  in  the  <liocese  of  Terouannc.    The  letters 
are  directed  to  cardinal  Tli.  archbishop  of  Canterbury. 

June  29.  Grant  for  life  to  the  king's  mother  Cicely  of  the  manor  of  Newchali  with 
Westminster,  appm-tcnances  in  the  towns  nf  Cavendis.she,  Clare,  Poselingford,  Cokefold, 
IJarnarde^iton,  Honydeu,  iUeigh  and  I'rcston,  co.  Sulfolk,  a  toft,  48  acres  of 
land,  120  acres  of  pasture  and  30  acres  of  wood  called  '  Peches  '  and 
'Alphedney'  in  the  said  towns  of  Clare  and  Cavendisshe,  120  acres  of  land, 
140  acres  of  pasture,  13  acres  of  meadow  an<l  ()0  acres  of  wood  in  Clare, 
Poselingford  and  Cavendisshe  called  '  Mortymers,'  30  acres  of  lanil,  20 
acres  of  pastui'e  and  8  acres  of  meadow  in  the  towns  of  Cavendisshe 
aforesaid  and  Boxstede  called  '  Shelford,'  a  water-mill  called  '  Padilokkys- 
myll '  in  Cavendisshe,  a  messuage  and  8  acres  of  land  in  Cavendisshe 
called  the  manor  of  Greys  in  Cavendisshe,  a  court  of  honour  at  Staunbonrne, 
CO.  Essex,  every  three  weeks  and  a  cottage  called  'Ic  Courtehous  '  in  8taun- 
bourn,  to  hold  with  all  advowsons,  liberties  and  other  appurtenances  as  lully 
as  the  king's  father  held  them  with  all  issues  since  his  death  by  the  services 


90 


CALENDAR  OF  PATENT  ROLLS. 


1468.  Membrane  16 — cont. 

of  as  many  knights'  fees  and  as  many  other  rents  and  services  as  they  were 
held  by  before  4  March,  1  Edward  IV.  By  p.s. 

July  4,  Grant  to  John,  duke  of  Norfolk,  and  the  heirs  male  of  his  body  of  40/. 
Westininsicr.  yearly  from  Easter,  5  Edward  IV.  from  the  issues  of  the  counties  of 
Norfolk  and  Sufiblk,  in  lieu  of  a  like  grant  of  40  marks  yearly  to  his  father 
John,  late  duke  of  Norfolk,  and  the  heirs  male  of  his  body  by  letters  patent 
dated  12  August,  1  Edward  IV.  which  are  invalid  by  an  act  of  resumption 
in  Parliament  at  Westminster,  3  Edward  IV.  By  p.s. 

July  1 1.  Whereas  by  letters  patent  dated  30  July,  7  Edward  IV.  the  king  granted 
Westminster,  to  John,  earl  of  Worcester,  and  Philippa  Roos,  his  sister,  late  the  wife  of 
Thomas,  lord  of  Roos,  for  her  life  the  manor  of  Seton  and  an  annuity  of 
20/.  from  the  priory  of  Wartre  and  lands  in  Wartre,  co.  York,  and  they 
granted  the  same  to  Eleanor  Roos,  the  daughter  of  the  said  Thomas  and 
Philippa;  the  king  hereby  confirms  this  grant  to  the  said  Eleanor  and 
grants  to  her  for  life  the  reversion  of  the  said  manor  and  annuity  on  the 
death  of  the  said  Philippa,  to  hold  by  the  services  of  as  many  kniglits'  fees 
and  as  many  other  rents  and  services  as  they  were  held  by  before  the  first 
day  of  March,  1  Edward  IV.  By  p.s. 

Membrane  15. 

June  3.  Exemplification  of  the  tenours  of  the  following : — 
Wcstiniuster.  1.  A  petition  exhibited  on  12  May  last  in  Parliament  at  Westminster 
by  Nicholas  Latymer,  knight,  that  he  and  his  heirs  should  be 
restored  to  their  possessions,  which  he  forfeited  by  his  attainder 
in  Parliament  ai  Westminster,  4  November,  1  Edward  IV.  he 
having  subsequently  sworn  loyalty  to  the  king  at  the  castle  of 
Baumburgh,  co.  Northumberland,  before  the  earls  of  Warwick 
and  Worcester  and  others.  English. 

2.  The  assent  to  the  same  by  the  commons  in  Parliament  in  these 

words  : — A  cest  peticione  lez  communes  sont  assenluz. 

3.  The  answer  of  the  king  : — Soit  fait  come  il  est  desire, 
[Ro/ls  of  Parliament,  vol.  vi.  p,  230.] 

June  21.  General  pardon  to  Humphrey  Dacre  for  all  offences  committed  by  him 
Westminster,  before  Midsummer  last.  By  p.s. 

June  13.  Grant  for  life  to  Edward  Hardegill,  one  of  the  yeomen  of  the  crown, 
Westminster,  of  the  office  of  ranger  in  the  king's  forest  of  Wychewode,  co.  Oxford, 
receiving  6d.  daily  from  the  issues  of  the  counties  of  Oxford  and  Berks,  as 
was  allowed  for  the  wages  of  Geoffrey  Bukhurst,  late  ranger,  in  the  great 
roll  of  42  Edward  III.  in  the  account  of  Roger  Elmerugge,  late  sheriff, 
with  all  other  accustomed  profits.  By  p.s. 

July  2.  Licence  for  Henry,  lord  FitzHugh,  knight,  or  his  heirs  and  executors  to 
Westminster,  found  a  perpetual  chantry  of  two  chaplains  to  celebrate  divine  service 
daily  in  the  chapel  of  St.  John  the  Apostle  and  Evangelist  in  the  castle 
or  manor  of  Ravenswath,  co.  iTork,  for  the  good  estate  of  the  said  Henry 
and  Alesia  his  wife  and  for  their  souls  after  death  and  the  souls  of  the 
ancestors  of  Henry  and  the  founder  and  benefactors  of  the  house  or  hospital 
of  St.  Giles  by  Broniptou  on  Swale,  co.  York,  to  be  called  the  chautry  of 
St.  Giles  in  the  said  chapel  ;  and  to  grant  in  mortmain  to  the  said  chaplains 
lands  and  rents  not  held  in  chief  to  the  value  of  10/.  yearly. 

By  p.s.  and  for  40  marks  paid  in  the  hanaper. 

Membrane  14. 

]Mav  24.  Licence  for  William  Swayne  of  the  city  of  Salisbury,  co.  Wilts,  merchant, 
Wostminstcr.  or  his  heirs  and  assigns  to  found  a  perpetual  chantry  of  one  chaplain  to 


8  EDWARD  IV.— PAia  1. 


91 


1468.  Membrane  14 — cont. 

celebrate  divine  service  at  the  altar  of  St.  Mary  aud  St.  John  the  Baptist 
iu  the  south  aisle  of  the  church  of  St.  Thomas  the  Martyr  in  that  city  aud 
to  pray  for  the  good  estate  of  the  king  and  hia  consort  Elizabeth  and  for 
their  souls  after  death  and  the  souls  of  Riciiard  Beucliainp,  bishop  of 
Salisbury,  the  said  William  and  Cristiana  iiis  Avife  and  their  children,  Juiues 
Swayue  his  father  aud  Alice  Swayne  his  mother,  and  John  Wliite  and 
Edith  his  wife  and  their  children,  to  be  called  '  S\raynes  Chauntery  in 
the  church  of  St.  Thomas  the  Martyr,  in  the  city  of  Salisbury ' ;  and 
to  grant  iu  mortmain  to  the  said  chaplain  lands,  rents  aud  possessions  of 
the  yearly  value  of  20  mark.s,  not  held  in  chief,  for  disposition  in  divers 
works  of  piety  according  to  his  ordinance,  without  sueing  out  writs  of  ad  quod 
damnum  in  this  beiialf  or  any  inquisition  taken.  By  p.s. 

June  20.  Grant  for  life  to  the  king's  servant  John  Biakeney,  one  of  the  clerks  of 
Westminster,  the  signet,  in  lieu  of  a  grant  to  him  of  tiie  office  of  the  custody  of  the 
manor  by  letters  patent  dated  16  February,  5  Edward  IV.  surrendered,  of 
the  custody  and  office  of  the  custody  of  the  king's  houses  in  tiie  manor  of 
Eltham,  with  the  accustomed  fees  from  the  said  16  February  from  the  issues 
of  the  counties  of  Warwick  and  Ltiicester  and  all  other  accustomed  profits. 

By  p.s. 

July  3.  Grant  for  life  to  WMUiam  Stavcrtou  to  the  office  of  keeper  or  parker 
Westminster,  of  the  king's  new  park  called '  le  Moot  jjarke  '  within  tiie  forest  of  Wyndesore 
lately  enclosed  by  tlie  king,  and  \d.  daily  for  the  occupation  of  the  oiHce 
from  the  issues  of  the  counties  of  Oxford  and  Berks,  pasture  and  herbage 
for  six  horses  and  six  cows  feeding  witiiin  the  park,  all  wood  arising  from 
'browesyng' within  the  park  for  fuel  and  a  house  within  the  park  for  his 
dwelling;  and  grant  to  him  also  of  60.v.  lOr/.  from  tlie  issues  of  the  said 
counties  in  consideration  of  his  ha\  iug  occupied  tlio  said  office  from 
Michaelmas  last  at  the  command  of  the  king  by  word  of  mouth.       By  p.s. 

July  4.  Pardon  to  John  Cony  late  of  Thorpe,  co.  E.ssex,  '  genlilman,'  of  his 
Wesliniuster.  outlawry  in  the  county  of  Essex  for  not  aj)peaiing  before  John  Prysot  and 
bis  fellows,  justices  of  the  Bench  of  the  late  king,  to  answer  him  and  John, 
Ciirl  of  Oxford,  for  having  entered  the  earl's  park  at  Grciit  Ocle  ami 
hunted  therein  and  carried  away  deer,  he  having  suriendered  to  the  Flete 
prison,  as  Robert  Danby,  ciiief  justice  of  the  Bench,  has  certilied. 

July  11.         Presentation   of   .John    Malton,  chaplain,    lo    the    parish   church  uf 
Westiiiin.stcr.  St.  Botolph,  Northcove,  in  the  diocese  of  i<orwich,  void  by  the  death  of 
.lohn  Dasshe,  last  parson. 

July  11.        Grant  to  the  king's  kinsman  John  Nevile,  knight,  carl  of  Nortliumber- 
Westminster.  land,  and  the  heirs  male  of  iiis  body  of  the  castle,  manor  or  lordship  of 
Wresell  with  its  members,  co.  York,  iu  the  king's  hands  by  reason  of  an 
act  in  Parliament  at  Westminster,  4  March  (v/c),  1  Kdward  IV.  and  all 
issues  of  the  same  from  4  March,  1  Edward  1\'.  By  K. 


Membrane  13. 

May  19.  Appointment,  during  pleasure,  of  John  Flemmyng  as  controller  of  the 
Westinin.stor.  great  and  petty  custom,  the  subsidy  of  wools,  hides,  and  wool-fells  and  the 
subsidy  of  the  35.  in  the  tun  and  the  Vld.  in  the  pound  in  the  ports  of 
Exeter  and  Dertemouth  and  ports  and  places  adjacent,  receiving  the 
accustomed  fees,  provided  that  he  execute  the  office  in  person,  with  the 
custody  of  one  part  of  the  coket  seal.  By  bill  of  the  treasurer. 

The  like  of  the  following  : — 
April  1 1.  John  Staimford  in  the  port  of  Pole  and  ])orts  and  places  adjacent. 

Dof^niersfiild.  By  bill  of  the  treasurer. 


92 


CALENDAR  OF  PATENT  ROLLS. 


1  468.  Membrane  1 3 — cont. 

Juue  4.  Geucnil  i)!ircloii  to  Thomiis  Morcys,  rector  of  the  parish  church  of  Belle, 
Westminster,  co.  Dorset,  for  all  oflcuces  committed  by  him  before  20  May  last. 

By  p.s. 

June  3.  Exemplificalion  of  the  teuours  of  the  following: — 
Westminster.  1.  A  petition  exhibited  on  12  May  last  in  Parliament  at  Westminster 
by  Thomas  Fulford,  knight,  eldest  son  of  lialdwin  Fulford 
late  of  Fulford,  co.  Devon,  knight,  deceased,  that  he  and  his  heirs 
should  be  permitted  to  have  and  inherit  the  jjossessions  of  the 
said  Baldwin  who  was  attainted  of  treason  iu  Parliament  at 
Westminster,  4  November,  1  Edward  IV.  and  also  at  Bristol 
before  Henry,  earl  of  Essex,  William  Hastynges  of  Hastynges, 
knight,  Richard  Cliok,  William  Canynges,  mayor  of  the  town, 
and  Thomas  Yong,  appointed  to  hear  and  determine  treasons 
done  within  the  said  town  before  5  September,  1  Edward  IV. 
Enc/lish, 

2.  The  assent  to  the  same  by  the  Commons  in  Parliament  in  these 

words  :  — A  cest  peticion  les  commimes  sount  assentuz. 

3.  The  answer  of  the  king  : — Soit  fait  come  il  est  desire. 
[Rolls  of  Parliament,  vol.  vi.  p.  2S0.] 

June  8.  Grant  for  life  to  John  Hynde,  iu  lieu  of  a  like  grant  to  William  Clay- 
Westminster,  broke,  yeoman  of  the  king's  larder,  by  letters  patent  dated  4  September, 
7  Edward  IV.  surrendered  because  invalid,  of  the  office  of  porter  of  the 
king's  castle  of  York  and  the  office  of  the  custody  of  the  gaol  of  the  castle, 
with  wages  of  2il.  daily  from  the  issues  of  the  county  of  York  and  all  otiier 
accustomed  fees,  as  allowed  to  Alexander  de  la  Botellerie  for  the  office  of 
porter  in  the  time  of  Richard  II.  and  to  Richard  de  Sutton  iu  the  roll  of 
44  Edward  III.  By  p.s. 

July  14.  General  pardon  to  Peter  Alfray  late  of  London,  'draper,'  of  all  offences 
Westminster,  committed  by  him  before  20  June  last.  By  K. 

July  13.         Graut  for  hfe  to  the  king's  servant  Adam  Godeale  of  the  office  of  being 
Westminster,  one  of  the  king's  sergeants  at  arms,  with  wages  of  1 2c?.  daily  from  Michaelmas 
last  from  the  fee  farm  of  the  city  of  Hereford,  and  a  livery  of  the  suit  of 
esquires  of  the  household  yearly  at  Christmas  at  the  great  wardrobe. 

By  p.s. 


Membrane  12. 

Juue  10.  Grant  to  the  king's  servant  John  Eogere,  in  repayment  of  the  sura  of 
Westminster.  100/.  lent  by  him  to  the  king,  as  appears  in  the  receipt  of  the  Exchequer, 
of  the  following  sums  yearly  from  Easter  last  until  he  be  fully  satisfied, 
viz.  JO/,  fromthie  fee  farm  and  increment  of  the  city  of  Norwich,  11/.  15s.  9f/. 
from  the  issues  of  divers  farms,  rents,  and  hundreds  granted  to  Edmund, 
earl  of  Kent,  uncle  of  Edward  III.  at  the  hands  of  the  sheriff  of  York  or 
other  occupiers  of  the  same,  4/,  ^s.  from  part  of  the  value  of  the 
manor  of  Borley,  co.  Essex,  at  the  hands  of  the  sheriff  of  the  county  or 
the  prior  of  Christ  Church,  Canterbury,  or  other  occupiers  of  the  manor, 
40.?.  from  the  farm  of  the  court  of  Reuelet,  co.  Kent,  GO5.  from  the  custody 
or  farm  of  a  messuage  called  '  le  crofte,'  and  .32s.  Id.  from  a  rent  of  two 
cocks,  32  hens,  and  184  eggs  in  the  parish  of  Estchirch,  Isle  of  Shepey,  co. 
Kent,  at  the  hands  of  the  sheriff  of  Kent  or  Geoffrey  de  Newenton  or  other 
farmers  there,  .'i7s.  6d.  from  the  fee  farm  of  the  city  of  Rochester,  54s.  from 
the  farm  of  lands  in  Norton,  co.  Northampton,  at  the  hands  of  the  sheriff 
of  the  county  or  the  heirs  of  William  le  Mareschall  or  other  farmers, 
58s.  4f/.  from  the  remanent  of  the  hundred  of  Falwesley,  co.  Northampton,  at 
the  hands  of  the  said  sheriff  or  the  abbot  of  Evesham,  7/.  from  the  issues 


8  EDWAKU  IV.— Paut  I. 


93 


14g8.  Membrane  12— coat. 

of  the  cess  of  the  forest  of  Corubury,  co.  Oxford,  at  the  hands  of  the  sheriff 
of  the  county  or  Thomas  de  Langley  or  other  farmers,  4  marks  from  tlie 
farm  of  the  manor  of  Bastyngdeu,  co.  Berks,  at  the  hands  of  the  sheriff' of  the 
county  or  Cristina  de  Mariscis  and  her  heirs  or  other  farmers,  10/.  fromtiie 
fee  farm  of  the  town  of  Gnldeford,  co.  Surrey,  10  marks  from  the  farm  of 
the  city  of  Winchester,  co.  Southampton,  -1/.  from  the  farm  of  Modbergh,  co. 
Somerset,  at  the  hands  of  the  sheriff"  of  the  county  or  the  abbots  of  Carne, 
8/.  from  the  fee  farm  of  the  town  of  Ivelchestre,  co.  Somerset,  105*.  from 
the  farm  of  Northpedirton,  co.  Dorset,  12/.  from  the  farm  of  tlie  lands 
which  Henry  Clandauer  held  in  Fytilton,  in  Wilts,  at  the  hands  of  the 
sheriff  of  the  county  or  Simon  son  and  heir  of  Richard  Combe,  los.  from 
the  issues  of  small  particles  of  a  serjeauty  in  the  counties  of  Warwick  and 
Leicester,  13/.  1  Is.  from  the  issues  of  the  manor  of  Helwell,  co.  Lincoln,  and 
the  lordship  of  Stretton,  co.  llulland,  13/.  6*.  8(/.  from  the  farms  of  the  town 
of  Kyngcston-oii-Tliames,  co.  Surrey,  10/.  from  the  issues  of  the  county  of 
Hereford,  and  20/.  from  a  moiety  of  two  water-mills  below  the  castle  of 
Oxford  and  in  the  meadow  by  Useney  called  '  Kyngesmede  '  and  a  moiety 
of  the  fishery  of  the  water  called  '  I'emeso '  from  the  bridge  called 
'  Ilidebrigge  '  to  the  same  mills,  at  the  hands  of  the  sheriff"  of  Oxford  and 
Berks  or  the  abbot  and  convent  of  Oseney.  By  p.s. 

.Tune  9.  Grant  to  the  king's  servitor,  John  Kendale,  esquire,  coff"erer  of  the  king's 
Westmiiipter.  houseliohl,  and  the  heirs  male  of  his  body  of  a  messuage  with  a  garden 
adjacent  called  '  Clifford  Iniie  '  in  the  street  called  •  Fletestrete,'  in  the  city 
of  London  in  tho  ward  of  Faryngdone  Without,  late  of  John  Cliff'ord, 
knight,  late  loid  Clifford,  and  all  lands  and  possessions  in  Multon,  Gaysle, 
Nedeham,  Kcintford,  Dalham,  Uenliam  and  Ixnynge,  co.  Suff"olk,  late  of 
.James  Loterell,  knight,  in  the  king's  hands  by  reason  of  their  forfeitures 
and  by  virtue  of  an  act  in  Parliament  at  Westminster,  4  November, 
1  Edward  iV.  to  hold  by  the  rents  and  services  of  as  many  knights'  fees 
and  as  many  other  rents  and  services  as  they  were  held  by  before  4  March, 
1  Edward  IV.  with  all  issues  from  that  date.  By  p.s. 

July  4.         Presentation  of  John  Trevett,  parson  of  the  parish  church  of  Bermyng, 
Westminster,  in  the  diocese  of  Rochester,  to  the  church  of  Langelc,  in  the  dioce.^c  of 
Canterbury,  by  way  of  exchange. 


Membraxr  11. 

April  20.  Pardon,  for  20*.  paid  in  the  hanaper,  of  tho  trespass  in  the  acquisition 
Westminster,  without  licence  by  John  Khnham  of  Norwich  and  .John  Ays.-^hfeld  the 
younger  of  Burshamwelle  to  themselves  and  their  heirs  and  assigns  from 
•John  Grymesby,  clerk,  ol"  all  the  lands,  rents  and  services  with  lordships, 
homages,  fealties,  wards,  marriages,  reliefs,  escheats,  suits  of  court,  stews, 
fisheries,  mciidows,  feedings,  ways,  paths  and  liberty  of  one  fold  with  com- 
modities and  ])ro(its  in  the  towns  of  Causton,  Brandeston,  Sweuyngton, 
Ingworth  and  Hevyngliam  and  elsewhere  in  tiie  hundred  of  South 
Erpynglijuii  which  lie  lately  had  with  James  Moor,  citizen  of  Norwich, 
Robert,  lord  of  Willoughby,  knight,  John  Hylic,  Henry  Grey  the  elder, 
Robert  Morton,  escpiire,  John  Dam,  John  Agges  of  Catton,  Denis  Willys  of 
Langcio  and  William  Agges  of  Littlo  Walsyngham,  deceased. 

May  IG.        Pardon  to  William  Billesdcn  late  of  Kcntbury,  co.  Berks,  clerk,  of  his 
Westminster,  outlawry  in  the  county  of  Somerset  for  not  appearing  before  the  juf.ticos 
of  the  Bench  to  satisfy  John,  abbot  of  Glastonbury,  of  40/.  which  ho 
recovered  against  him  and  40.v.  damages;  he  having  surrendered  to  the 
Flete  prison  and  the  said  abbot  having  appeared  in  court  on  13  May  by 


94 


]4(38.  Membrane  II — cont. 

Richard  Brugge,  his  attorney,  and  acknowledged  himself  satisfied,  as  appears 
by  certificate  of  Bobert  Danby,  cliicf  justice  of  the  Bench. 

Feb.  1.         Grant  for  life  to  the  king's  servant  Richard  Gotelee,  one  of  the  yeomen 
Westminster,  of  the  crown,  of  6d.  daily  at  the  receipt  of  the  Exchequer. 
Vacated  because  in  the  seventh  year. 

July  10.  General  pardon  to  George  Orell  alias  Oryll  late  of  York,  esquire,  alias 
Westininstei-.  late  of  London,  '  gentilman.'  By  K. 

July  5.         Grant  to  the  king's  kinsman  Henry  Nevile,  knight,  son  of  George 
Westminster.  Nevile,  knight,  lord  Latymer,  and  the  heirs  male  of  his  body  of  the  manor 
of  Ileshamstede  Latymer   alias  Isnamstede  Latymer,  co.  Buckingham, 
which  divers  lords  Latymer  have  long  held,  to  hold  with  advowsons, 
knights'  fees,  courts  leet  and  other  commodities  by  the  accustomed  services. 

By  p.s. 

July  14.  Exemption  for  life  of  John  Frerayngliam  alias  John  Frenyngham  of 
Westminster.  Canterbury  from  being  put  on  assizes,  juries,  attaints,  recognisances  or  im- 
positions and  from  being  made  trier  of  the  same,  mayor,  bailiff,  constable, 
collector,  assessor,  taxer,  surveyor  or  receiver  of  tenths,  fifteenths  or  other 
subsidy,  arrayer,  trier  or  leader  of  men-at-arms,  hobelers  or  archers  or  other 
officer  or  minister  of  the  king,  and  grant  that  no  purveyor,  buyer  or  taker 
of  carriage  for  the  household  shall  take  anything  of  his  goods,  horses,  beeves, 
calves,  muttons,  swine,  lambs,  liay,  oats  or  other  victuals,  against  his  will. 

By  p.3. 

July  11.  Pai-don  to  Geoffrey  Jenyn  alias  Yenyn  alias  Hele  of  Hatherlegh,  co.  Devon, 
Westminster.  '  osteler,'  alias  'mercer,'  alias  '  yoman,'  of  his  outlawries  in  the  county  of 
Devon  for  not  appearing  before  John  Prysot  and  his  fellows,  justices  of 
the  Bench  of  the  late  king,  to  satisfy  John,  abbot  of  St.  Mary  and 
St.  Runionns,  Tavestoke,  of  5  marks  which  he  recovered  against  him 
and  205.  damages,  and  to  answer  a  plea  of  Vincent  Pittelisden  of  a  debt  of 
43$.  4f/,  and  before  the  justices  of  the  Bench  to  answer  a  plea  that  he 
render  his  account  to  Thomas  Cliircheyerd  and  Alice  his  wife,  executrix 
of  the  will  of  John  Frensshe  late  of  Baunton,  for  the  time  when  he  was 
the  receiver  of  the  latter  ;  he  having  surrendered  to  the  Flete  prison  and 
satisfied  the  said  abbot,  as  Robert  Danby,  chief  justice  of  the  Bench,  has 
certified. 


Membrane  10. 

.Tuly  21.  Whereas  in  the  times  of  Edward  III.  and  Richard  II.  many  lands  and 
Westminster,  possessions  in  Stoke,  Estoke,  Northewode,  Mengham,  Weston  and  Haylyug 
within  the  island  of  Haylyng,  co.  Southampton,  were  devasted  by  the  sea 
and  the  inhabitants  of  the  island  so  impoverished  that  the  sum  of  the 
fifteenth,  amounting  to  20/.  5s.  1\d.  became  an  insupportable  burden 
and  for  this  cause  Henry  IV.  by  letters  patent  dated  21  January, 
8  Henry  IV.  granted  that  they  should  only  be  charged  with  the  sum  of 
G/.  155.  l\d.;  the  king  hereby  grants  tiiat  they  shall  not  be  charged  with 
more  than  6/.  155.  l\d.  for  any  whole  fifteenth  and  tenth  or  675.  d\d.  and 
the  moiety  of  a  farthing  for  the  moiety  of  a  fifteenth  and  tenth.    ^    By  p.s. 

Aug.  1.        Grant  for  life  to  William  Spencer  and  Edith  his  wife  of  an  annuity  of 
Westminster.  10/.  from^Michaelmas,  7  Edward  IV.  from  all  sums  of  money  from  a  subsidy 
of  persons  called  '  alicntes  money '  in  the  city  of  London  and  the  county  of 
Middlesex.  By  p.s. 

Aug.  2.        Grant  to  the  king's  brother  Richard,  duke  of  Gloucester,  and  the  heirs 
Westminster,  of  his  body  of  the  manors  of  Alwerton  and  Ty  warnayll  Tees,  co.  Cornwall, 
of  which  Eleanor,  some  time  the  wife  of  Edmund,  late  duke  of  Somerset, 


95 


1408.  Membrane  10 — cont. 

was  seised  and  which  came  into  the  king's  hands  after  her  death  by  tlic 
attainder  of  Henry,  late  duke  of  Somerset,  her  son  and  heir  by  pretext  of 
an  act  of  Parliament  at  Westminster,  4  November,  1  Edward  IV.  as 
appears  by  an  inquisition  taken  by  Richard  Eggecombe,  late  escheator  in 
the  comity,  to  liold  with  rents,  services,  knights'  fees,  advowsons,  wards, 
marriages,  leliefs,  escheats,  meadows,  feedings,  woods,  warrens,  fisheries, 
waters,  stannaries,  tolls,  courts-leet,  franchises,  liberties,  forfeitures, 
chattels  of  felons,  fugitives  and  outlaws,  moors,  marshes,  wreck  of  sea, 
deodands,  reversions  and  all  other  profits  by  the  services  of  as  many  knights' 
fees  and  as  many  other  rents  and  services  as  they  were  held  by  before 
4  March,  1  Edward  IV.  By  p.s. 


Membrane  9. 

July  7.  Tnspe.virnns  and  confirmation  to  William  Bronston,  the  abbot,  and  the 
Westmiiisier.  convent  of  the  church  of  St.  Mary  and  St.  Modwenna,  Burton,  of  a  charter 
dated  at  Windsor,  12  May,  11  Henry  HI.  [Monasticon,  vol.  Iff.  p.  43, 
JVo.  X  F.],  granting  to  them  divers  liberties  and  a  fair  and  market  at 
liurton  ;  and  grant  to  them  also  that  they  shall  have  goods  and  chattels  of 
felons,  fugitives  and  outlaws  and  all  persons  put  in  exigent  for  felony 
within  their  manor  of  Burton  on  Trent  with  its  members  and  hamlets  of 
Bronston,  Ilomynglowc,  Stretton,  Wighmere,  Wynshull  and  StapenhuU 
and  all  amercements,  ransoms,  issues,  forfeitures,  year,  day  and  waste  and 
estrepment  within  the  same,  and  that  the  abbot  and  his  successors  shall 
be  justice  of  the  peace  and  the  bailifl'  of  Burton  shall  be  coroner  within 
the  same,  and  that  they  shall  have  retin-n  of  writs  within  the  same,  and 
grant  to  them  of  a  fair  yearly  at  Burton  on  the  vigil,  the  day  and  the 
morrow  of  St.  Luke  the  Evangelist. 

By  p.s.  and  for  40.<f.  paid  in  the  hanapor. 

July  IG.  Grant  for  life  to  William  Milford  of  the  manor  of  Sevenhampton  Denys, 
Westminster,  co.  Somerset,  for  the  custody  of  which  William  Bnlman  useil  to  ]iay  9/.  7*. 

yearly  to  the  late  king,  to  hold  with  courts  leet  and  other  appurtenances 
without  impeachment  of  waste,  rendering  to  the  king  206-.  yearly  ;  and 
pardon  to  him  and  to  Thomas  Herbert,  .John  Sidcnham,  (Miristophcr 
Worselcy  and  William  Brownyng,  late  severally  sheriffs  of  Somerset  and 
Dorset,  and  all  other  late  sherifl^s  of  Somerset  and  Dorset  of  all  debts  and 
accounts  due  to  the  king  for  the  issues  of  the  manor.  By  p.s. 

July  21.         Grant  to  the  king's  .servitor  William  Wyndesorc,  one  of  the  clerks  of  the 
Westminster,  king's  chapel,  of  an  annuity  of  10  marks  from  the  subsidy  of  aliens  called 
•  alientes  money '  in  the  city  of  Loudon  and  the  county  of  Middlesex,  until 
he  shall  be  provided  with  a  sustenance  in  a  monastery.  By  p.s. 

July  23.        Grant  for  life  to  the  king's  servant  John  Pnnche,  ono  of  the  yeomen  of 
Wcstnn'iisttT.  the  crown,  of  6d.  daily  from  Michaelmas  last,  irom  which  day  he  has 
occupied  that  office,  from  the  customs  and  subsidies  in  the  port  of  Pole  and 
ports  and  places  adjacent.  By  p.s. 

Mandate  in  pursuance  to  the  collectors,  customers  or  receivers  of  customs 
and  sudsidies  in  the  said  port. 


Membrane  8. 

May  30.        Grant  to  the  king's  knight  Walter  Devereux,  lord  Ferrers,  of  the 
Westminster,  custody  of  all  castles,  lordships,  manors,  lauds,  rents  and  possessions  with 
knights'  fees,  advowsons,  courts  leet,  views  of  frank-pledge,  fairs,  markets, 
privileges  and  franchises  late  of  Roger  Corbet,  knight,  and  in  the  king's 


96 


CALENDAR  OF  PATENT  ROLLS. 


1468. 


July  4. 
Westminster. 


July  19. 
Westminster. 


July  20. 
Westminster. 


Membrane  8 — cont. 

hands  by  reason  of  the  minority  of  Richard  Corbet  his  son  and  heir,  with 
the  marriage  of  the  heir  without  disparagement  during  minority  and  so 
from  heir  to  heir.  By  p.s. 

Exemplification  of  the  tenour  of  tlie  enrolment  of  letters  piitent  dated 
13  March,  7  Edward  IV.  [Charter  Roll  .')-7  Edward  IV.  No.  4],  creating 
the  king's  nephew  John  sou  and  heir  of  Jolin,  duke  of  Suffolk,  earl  of 
Lincoln  and  granting  to  him  and  the  heirs  male  of  his  body  20/.  yearly 
from  the  issues  of  the  county  of  Lincoln.  These  letters  have  been  lost  by 
accident,  as  Henry  Boteler  has  taken  oath  in  Chancery,  and  will  be 
surrendered  if  found. 

General  pardon  to  Alice  Paslowe  aliaa  Passelowe  alias  Passlawe  late  of 
London,  '  wydowe gentilwoman,' of  all  offences  committed  by  her 
before  17  July  last.  By  p.s. 

Whereas  from  the  first  day  of  the  reign  the  king  assigned  to  Thomas 
Stratton,  esquire,  clei'k  of  the  works,  the  sum  of  4,193^.  9.f.  6d.  for  the 
works,  as  .ippears  by  divers  tallies  at  the  receipt  of  the  Exchequer,  of 
which  the  said  Thomas  has  at  present  expended  the  sum  of  3,538/.  2.9.  iOd. 
on  new  works  and  repairs,  as  appears  by  divers  accounts,  and  he  has 
surrendered  at  the  said  receipt  40  tallies  amounting  to  the  sura  of 
630/.  7*.  M.  and  56  other  talhes  and  bills  amounting  to  the  sura  of 
1,181/.  17*.  still  remain  in  his  hands,  of  which  he  has  received  no  payment, 
the  king  grants  that  he  shall  receive  the  said  sum  of  1,181/.  17*.  at  the 
hands  of  the  mayor  and  society  of  the  merchants  of  the  staple  of  the  town 
of  Calais  from  the  customs  and  subsidies  of  wools  and  wool-fells  exceeding 
the  sum  of  15,022/.  4s.  8c?.  yearly,  of  which  excess  they  are  chargeable  to 
the  king  by  an  act  of  Parliament.  By  p.s. 


Membrane  7. 

May  19.        C4rant  for  life  to  Eleanor  late  the  wife  of   Ranulph  Dacre,  knight, 
Westminster,  of  the  manors    of   Dacre  with  the    advowson    of  the    church    of  the 
same  and  all  lands  in  Newebigging  and  Mosdali,  co.  Cumberland,  and  the 
manor  of   Barton  and  all  lands  in  Tyrell,  Martyndall,  Patrykdale  and 
Powlowe,  CO.  Westmoreland,  late  of  the  said  Ranulph  and  in  the  king's 
hands  by  force  of  an   act  in  Parliament  at  Westminster,  4  November, 
1  Edward  IV.  and  a  yearly  rent  of  40/.  from  the  king's  manors  of  Holbeche 
and  Whaplode,  co.  Lincoln,  to  hold  with  knights'  fees,  advowsons,  wards, 
marriages,  reliefs,  escheats,  fairs,  markets,  parks,  warrens,  liberties  and 
franchises.  P-^- 
Aug.  5.        Presentation  of  Simon  Billyngey,  chaplain,  to  the  parish  church  of 
Westminster.  Chylton,  in  the  diocese  of  Bath  and  Wells,  void  by  the  resignation  of  Ralph 
Carvyle,  last  parson. 

Auo-.  6.        Revocation  of  the  protection,  with  clause  volumus,  for  one  year,  lately 
Westminster,  granted  by  letters  patent  to  Thomas  Fowler,  late  citizen  and  'stokfisshemonger' 
of  London,  alias  late  of  Bukyngham,  co.  Buckingham,  'gentilman,'  alias 
late  of  Oxford,  *  gentilmsvn,'  alias  late  one  of  the  aldermen  of  the  town  of 
Oxford,  going  on  the  king's  service  in  the  company  of  John  Thirske, 
treasurer  and  victualler  of  the  castle  and  town  of  Calais,  on  the  safe- 
custody,  defence  and  victualling  of  the  same  and  the  marches  in  the  parts 
of  Picardy,  because  he  stays  iu  London  attendant  upon  his  own  business, 
as  Humphrey  Hayford  and  Thomas  Stalbroke,  sheriffs,  have  certified. 
July  19.        General  pardon  to  John  Plommer,  knight,  citizen  and  grocer  and  late 
Westminster,  alderman    of   London,   alias    John    Leynham   late  of   Horsyndon,  co. 

Buckingham,  knight,  alias  late  of  Fyncheley,  co.  Middlesex.  By  K. 


8  EDWA.RD  IV.— Pakt  I. 


97 


1468.  Membrane  7 — cont. 

Aug.  30.        Exemption  for  life  of  Robert  Staunton  from  being  put  on  assizes,  juries, 
Westminster,  attaints,  recognisances  or  inquisitions  and  from  being  made  trier  of  the 
same,   major,  sheriff,  collector  of  tenths,  fifteenths  or  other  subsidies, 
arrayer  or  trycr  of  men-at-arms,  hobelers  or  archers,  or  other  oflGcer,  bailiff 
or  minister  of  the  king,  against  his  will.  By  p.s. 

Aug.  4.  Grant  to  Otewel  Wor.«;eley,  esquire,  in  repayment  of  the  sum  of 
Westminster.  1.309/.  4s.  3</.  due  to  him  from  the  king,  of  654/.  12s.  \\d.  in  the  year 
after  the  Nativity  of  St.  Mary  next  and  654/.  12.y.  l\(l.'m  the  following  year 
from  the  moneys  arising  from  all  wards,  marriages,  reliefs,  escheats,  forfeitures 
and  custodies  of  heirs  during  minority  and  temporalities  of  archbishoprics 
and  other  ecclesiastical  benefices  pertaining  to  the  king.  By  p.s. 


Membrane  6. 


Oct.  8. 

Westniinsier. 


Oct.  10. 

Westminster. 


Oct.  18. 
Westminster. 

Oct.  22. 

Westminster. 

Oct.  .30. 

Westminster. 

Nov.  3. 
Westminster. 


Oct.  30. 
Westminster. 


General  pardon  to  William  Belknape  late  of  Cray,  co.  Kent,  esquire, 
alias  '  gentihnan,'  for  all  offences  committed  by  him  l)ofore  3  October. 

By  p.s. 

Vacated  because  otherwise  below. 

Safe-conduct  for  Anselm  Adourins,  squire,  lord  of  Mousele  and 
Ghendbrigg,  councillor  of  the  king's  brother  Charles,  duke  of  Burgundy, 
■who  is  going  to  visit  the  Holy  Sepulchre  and  other  places,  with  twelve 
persons  in  his  company.  By  K. 

General  pardon  to  William  Belknapp  late  of  London,  esquire,  aliat  of 
Cray  St.  Mary,  co.  Kent,  '  gentilman,'  of  all  offences  committed  by  him 
before  16  October.  By  p.s. 

The  like  to  Richard  Tunstall  late  of  Thurlandc,  co.  Lancaster,  knight, 
of  all  offences  committed  by  him  before  19  October.  By  p.s. 

Grant  for  life  to  Dan  John  Shrouesbury,  monk,  of  the  priory  of  Fareley, 
CO.  Wilts,,  of  the  king's  foundation,  void  by  the  resignation  of  Dan  John 
Stratton,  late  prior.  By  p.s.  [2599.] 

General  pardon  to  Ralph  Seyntleger,  esquire,  sheriff  of  Kent  and  keeper 
of  the  gaol  of  Canterbury,  for  all  escapes  of  felons  and  other  prisoners  and 
all  consetiuent  penalties  due  to  the  king.  By  p.s. 

Grant  for  life  to  the  king's  servant  Richard  Felde,  his  surgeon,  of  the 
office  of  ranger  of  the  forest  of  Kingesbere  by  Winchester  alias  Wcstbere 
find  the  custody  of  the  woods  called  Papinholt  and  Shrovvenore  by  the 
forest,  with  the  accustomed  fees  from  the  issues  of  the  county  of 
Southampton  and  other  profits,  in  the  same  manner  as  John  Kyrton, 
deceased,  had.  By  p.s. 


Sept.  1. 
Westminster. 


Oct.  17. 

Westminster. 


y  96186, 


Membrane  5. 

Grant  to  Richard  Wydewile,  earl  Rivers,  constable  and  treasurer  of 
England,  for  certain  burdens  undertaken  by  him  at  the  king's  command, 
of  the  custody  of  all  honours,  caslles,  lordships,  hundreds,  manor,  lands, 
rents,  services  iind  possessions  with  knights'  fees,  advowsons  and  appoint- 
nienls  of  officers  late  of  William  la  Zouclio,  lord  la  Zoiiche  and  Seymour, 
knight,  tenant  in  chief,  during  the  minority  of  tTohn  his  son  and  heir, 
with  the  marriage  of  tlic  heir  without  (lisi)aragement,  and  so  from  heir 
to  heir  during  minority.  By  p.s. 

General  pardon  to  Richard  Ilyll  late  of  Ayssheby  de  la  Zouche, 
CO.  Leicester,  '  yonian,'  for  all  offences  committed  by  him  before  13  October. 

By  p.s, 
a 


98 


CALENDAR  OF  PATENT  ROLLS. 


]468. 
Oct.  22. 

Westminster. 

Oct.  25. 

Westminster. 


Membrane  5 — cont. 
General  pardon  to  William  Stodard,  chaplain. 


By  p.s. 


Aug.  3. 

Westminster. 


Aug.  30. 

Westminster. 


Nov.  3. 
Westminster. 


July  26. 
Westminster. 


Oct.  14. 

Westminster. 

Oct.  17. 

Westminster. 

Oct  14. 

Westminster. 

Oct.  20. 
Westmifister. 

Oct.  20. 

Westminster. 


Oct.  27. 

Westminster. 


Dec.  16. 

Westminster. 


Grant  to  John  Howard,  knight,  treasurer  of  the  household,  of  all  the 
profit  pertaining  to  the  king  from  the  mint,  coinage  and  exchange  in  the 
city  and  Tower  of  London  or  elsewhere  within  the  realm  from  1  October  last 
for  payment  of  the  expenses  of  the  household.  By  p.s. 

Grant  to  the  king's  servant  Hugh  Fenne  of  the  presentations  to  the 
parish  churches  of  Ufford  and  Combes  and  the  free  chapel,  or  chantry,  of 
Brundyssh,  co.  Suffolk,  during  the  minority  of  Christopher  Willughby,  son 
and  heir  of  Robert  Willughby,  knight,  deceased.  By  p.s. 

Grant  for  life  to  William  Moton,  esquire,  from  Easter  last  of  the 
61.  6s.  7d.  yearly  due  by  Geoffrey  le  Scrope  and  his  heirs  to  the  king 
from  the  residue  of  the  manors  of  Bowedon  and  Haverebergh,  co.  Leicester. 

By  p.s. 

Grant  for  life  to  the  king's  servant  William  Whelpdale  of  the  office  of 
one  of  the  king's  Serjeants  at  arms  in  the  place  of  James  Manthorp,  de- 
ceased, with  wages  of  12f/.  daily  from  the  issues  of  the  counties  of  Norfolk 
and  Suffolk  and  a  livery  of  the  suit  of  esquires  of  the  household  yearly  at 
Christmas  at  the  great  wardrobe  and  all  other  accustomed  profits.     By  p.s. 

General  pardon  to  Thomas  Cooke  late  of  London,  knight,  alias  Thomas 
Coke,  citizen  and  alderman  of  London,  alias  citizen  and  draper  of  London. 

ByK. 

Membrane  4. 

General  pardon  to  Thomas  Scarlet  late  of  Wrastlyngworth,  co.  Bedford, 
'  laborer,'  for  all  offences  committed  by  him  before  12  October.         By  p.s. 

The  like  to  Richard  Hill  of  Assheby  de  la  Zouche,  co.  Leicester, '  yoman,' 
of  all  offences  committed  by  him  before  15  October.  By  p.s. 

Vacated  because  elsew/iere. 

Grant  for  life  to  Reginald  Busshawe  of  lOZ.  yearly  at  the  receipt  of  the 
Exchequer.  By  p.s. 

General  pardon  to  Henry  Belyngeham,  knight.  By  p.s. 

Mandate  to  the  escheator  in  the  county  of  Cambridge  for  the  restitution 
of  the  temporalities  of  the  abbey  of  Ramesey  to  William  Witlesey,  bachelor 
of  theology,  monk  of  the  monastery,  whose  election  as  abbot  John,  bishop 
of  Lincoln,  lias  confirmed,  and  whose  fealty  the  king  has  taken.        By  p.s. 

The  like  to  the  escheators  in  the  following  counties: — 
Norfolk  and  Suffolk. 
Essex  and  Hertford. 
Bedford  and  Buckingham. 
Northampton. 

The  like  to  Thomas  Owlegreve,  mayor  and  escheator  of  London. 
Writ  de  iiitendendo  in  pursuance  to  the  tenants. 

Appointment,  until  27  April,  of  Thomas  Markeham  to  purvey  salt-  and 
fresh-water  fish  for  the  expenses  of  the  household. 

By  bill  of  the  treasurer. 

The  like  of  the  following  : — 

Richard  Exton,  until  16  J  une,  to  purvey  beeves,  muttons,  salt-  and 
fresh-water  fish  and  all  other  things  which  pertain  to  the  office  of 
the  buyer  of  the  household.  By  bill  of  the  treasurer. 

John  Coke  for  the  same.  By  bill  of  the  treasurer. 


8  EDWARD  IV.— Fakt  I. 


99 


1468. 


Membrane  4 — cont. 


June  28. 
Westminster, 


Grant  to  the  king's  knight  .Joiiu  Wenlok  ofWenlok  and  his  heirs  and 
assigns  of  all  manors,  lands,  rents,  reversions  and  services  in  the  counties  of 
Middlesex,  Hertford,  Somerset  and  Wilts  in  the  king's  hands  by  the 
forfeiture  of  John  Fortescu,  knight,  and  by  autiiority  of  an  act  in  Parlia- 
ment at  Westminster,  4  November,  1  Edward  IV.  to  hold  with  knights' 
fees,  advowaons,  courts  leet,  views  of  frank-pledge,  {)arks,  warrens,  chaces, 
markets,  fairs,  liberties  and  franchises  from  Easter,  7  Edward  IV.  by 
knight-service  and  the  rent  of  a  red  rose  at  Midsummer ;  and  the  reversion 
of  the  manor  of  Eburton  or  Ebrighton,  co.  Gloucester,  on  the  death  of 
Jocosa  late  the  wife  of  .John  Grevyll,  esquire,  with  knights'  fees, 
advowsons,  courts  leet,  markets,  fairs,  liberties  and  franchises,  an  escheat  by 
the  forfeiture  of  the  said  John  Fortescu.  By  p.s. 

Oct.  25.  Pardon  to  Richard  Fryc  late  of  Honyton,  co.  Devon,  '  skryvener,'  of  his 
Westminster,  outlawry  in  the  county  of  Devon  for  not  appearing  before  the  justices  of 
the  Bench  to  answer  John  Vacy  and  Alice  his  wife  on  a  pica  that  he  and 
William  Burton,  '  husbondman,'  and  John  Burton,  '  yoman,'  both  late  of 
Aulescombe,  co.  Devon,  forged  certain  deeds  concerning  a  messuage  and 
40  acres  of  land  of  the  said  Alice  in  Aulescombe  ;  he  having  surrendered 
to  the  Flete  prison,  as  Robert  Dauby,  chief  justice  of  the  Bench,  has 
certified. 


Membranes  3 — 1. 

March  23.  Inspe.vimus  and  confirmation  to  Robert  Stillyngton,  tlie  dean,  and  the 
Westminster.  chai)ter  of  the  king's  free  chapel  of  St.  Martin  le  Grand,  Ijundon,  of  a 
charter  dated  at  Westminster,  13  March,  20  Henry  VI  \_C/utrt(r  lioll, 
1-20  Henry  VI,  No.  16],  inspecting  and  confirming  witii  additions  to 
Richard  Caudray,  then  dean,  and  the  chapter  letters  patent  dated  13  February, 
1  Henry  [VI],  inspecting  and  confirming  the  following: — 

1.  A  charter  dated  at  Westminster,  o  June,  2  Edward  TI  [Cfinrter  lioll, 

2  /Edward  II.  No.  4]  inspecting  and  confirming  a  charter  of 
Wilham  1  (Latin  and  Anglo-Saxon). 

2.  A  charter  dated  at  Westminster,  5  June,  2  Edward  II  ^Charter  lioll, 

2  Edward  II.  No.  5],  inspecting  and  confirming  to  William  do 
Melton,  then  dean,  a  charter  dated  at  Westminster,  4  February, 
15  Henry  III.  to  Walter  de  Kirkehau),  tiien  dean.  {Charter  Roll, 
15  Henry  III.  ?«.  10.] 

And  grant  that  they  and  all  canons  and  ])rebendaries  of  their  chapel  shall 
be  (juit  of  all  tenths,  subsidies  or  other  impositions  granted  by  the  clergy 
of  the  realm  or  of  the  provinces  of  Canterbury  or  York  or  imposed  by  the 
pope,  provide<l  that  all  such  canons  and  prebendaries  shall  answer  to  the 
dean  and  chapter  for  such  contributions,  and  that  the  dean  and  chapter  shall 
not  be  made  collectors  of  any  such  contributions.  By  K. 


Memhrane  1 — cont. 

May  10.  Whei  eas  the  lato  king  by  letters  i)atent  <hitcd  20  May,  20  Henry  VI. 
Westminster,  created  his  kinsman  .John,  then  baron  Talbot,  earl  of  Shrewsbury  with 
remainder  to  the  heirs  male  of  his  body  and  granteil  to  him  and  his  said 
heirs  20/.  yearly  from  the  issues  of  the  county  of  Salop,  and  the  said  letters 
are  now  void  so  far  as  concerns  the  .said  20/.  yearly;  the  king  hereby 
confirms  the  said  creation  to  John,  now  earl  of  Shrewsbury,  sou  and  heir 
of  John  son  and  heir  of  the  said  .John,  and  grants  to  him  and  the  heirs 
male  of  his  body  20/.  yearly  from  the  issues  of  the  said  county  from  Easter, 
4  Edward  IV.  By  p.s.  and  for  4/.  paid  in  the  hanaper 

G  2 


100 


CALENDAK  OF  PATENT  ROLLS. 


1468.  Membrane  ] — cont. 

March  24.      Grant  for  life  to  William  Thrilkeld,  esquire,      the  office  of  one  of  the 
Westminster,  king's  Serjeants  at  arras,  with  wages  of  12c?.  daily  from  Christmas  last  from 
the  issues  of  the  counties  of  Huntingdon  and  Cambridge  and  a  livery  of  the 
suit  of  esquires  of  the  household  yearly  at  Christmas  at  the  great  wardrobe. 

By  p.s. 

Membranes  30rf — 25d. 
Commissions  of  the  pe.'ice  in  various  counties.    {See  Appendix.) 


Membrane  2Ad. 

April  14.  Commission  to  John  Say,  knight,  Nicholas  Stathum,  Thomas  Leventhorp, 
Dogmersfield,  John  Pulter,  James  Bradman  and  Ralph  Grey  to  enquire  into  the  petition 
of  John  Horne  alias  John  Litelbury  that  by  a  fine  levied  at  Westminster 
in  one  month  of  Michaelmas,  7  Edward  II.  laefore  William  de  Bereford  and 
his  fellows,  justices  of  the  Bench,  Henry  Boclond  acknowledged  the  manor 
of  Boclond  to  be  the  right  of  Master  Simon  de  Gledesey  and  the  latter 
granted  the  manor  to  the  said  Henry  and  Alice  his  wife  for  life  with 
successive  remainders  to  Reginald  son  of  the  said  Henry  and  Richard  his 
brother  and  Eleanor  his  sister  and'  the  heirs  of  their  bodies  and 
to  the  right  heirs  of  Henry,  and  the  said  Henry  and  Alice  were 
seised  of  the  manor  in  time  of  peace  in  time  of  Edward  II.  and  received 
the  esplees  thereof  and  Alice  died  and  afterwards  Henry  died  and  Reginald 
was  seised  of  it  in  time  of  Edward  II.  and  Richard  in  time  of  Edward  III. 
and  both  died  without  heirs  of  their  bodies,  and  the  said  Eleanor  was 
seised  of  it  in  time  of  Edward  III.  and  received  the  esplees  until  she  was 
disseised  by  Peter  Marshall,  whose  estate  Thomas  late  lord  of  Roos  had  on 
4  March,  1  Edward  IV.  and  her  right  of  the  manor  descended  to  William 
her  son  and  lieir  and  from  him  to  Thomas  his  son  and  heir  and  from  him  to 
the  said  petitioner  as  his  son  and  heir,  and  by  an  act  of  the  Parliament 
at  Westminster,  4  November,  1  Edward  IV.  it  was  ordained  that  the  said 
Thomas,  lord  of  Roos,  should  forfeit  all  his  possessions,  and  that  afterwards 
by  inquisition  taken  at  Ware,  co.  Hertford,  on  Thursday  after  All  Saints, 
7  Edward  iV.  before  Thomas  Appulton,  then  eschcator  in  the  county,  it 
was  found  that  Eleanor,  late  duchess  of  Somerset,  held  the  said  manor 
of  Bokelond  alias  Boclond,  co.  Hertford,  in  dower  after  the  death  of  Thomas 
Roos,  knight,  late  lord  of  Roos  and  Hanlak,  her  husband,  of  the  inheritance 
of  the  said  Thomas  Roos,  late  lord  of  Roos,  his  son  and  that  she  died  on 
6  March  then  last  past,  and  accordingly  the  manor  was  taken  into  the  king's 
hands,  wherefore  he  prays  that  justice  may  be  done  as  he  was  not  attainted 
by  the  act  nor  claims  as  heir  of  any  one  attained  by  it.  By  K. 


Membrane  23d. 

March  30.      Commission  to  John  Denys,  John  Crokker,  Gilbert  Yard  and  Thomas 
Westminster.  Trethewy  to  enquire  what  lands  John  Wynard,  deceased,  held   in  the 
counties  of  Devon  and  Cornwall  on  the  day  of  his  death  and  when  he  died 
and  who  is  his  heir,  and  to  take  all  such  lands  into  the  king's  hands. 

April  3.        Commission  to  Thomas  Walgrave,  knight,  Alexander  Cressener,  Thomas 
Westmiuster.  Grene  and  James  Hubard  to  enquire  what  lands  the  king's  father  Richard, 
late  duke  of  York,  held  in  the  counties  of  Suffolk  and  Essex.  By  K. 

April  4.        (,'ommission  to  Anthony  Widevile  of  Scales,  knight,  John  Lisle,  knight, 
Westminster.  Maurice  Berkeley,  esquire,  John  Pawelet,  esquire,  Wdliam  Ovray,  John 
Stanley  and  John  Moyne  to  enquire  into  the  complaint  of  Baldwin  de  Hurtre, 


8  EDWARD  IV.— Part  I. 


101 


1468.  Membrane  23d — cunt. 

burgess  of  Bruges  in  Flanders,  that  about  13  November  last  a  ship  of 
Portugal  called  Fortado  laden  with  sugar,  staves  for  bows  and  '  sugrennel ' 
and  other  merchandise  of  his  was  driven  ashore  by  the  fury  of  the  sea  at 
Stokebay,  co.  Southampton,  and  the  said  goods  and  merchandise  were 
carried  off  by  certain  subjects  of  the  king  to  the  port  of  Suthampton,  the 
cities  of  London,  Winchester  and  Salisbury  and  the  Isle  of  Wight  and 
other  places  within  the  counties  of  Wilts,  Southampton,  Surrey  and  Sussex, 
contrary  to  the  form  of  the  truces  between  the  king  and  his  kinsman  the 
duke  of  Burgundy,  and  to  cause  restitution  to  be  made  and  to  arrest  and 
imprison  the  offenders. 


Membrane  22d. 

March  17.  Commission  to  .John  Cheyne,  knight,  John  Alyngfon,  William  Frevyle, 
Westminster.  William  Alyngton  and  Thomas  Lokton  to  enquire  into  certain  escapes  of 

felons  from  certain  prisons  in  the  county  of  Cambridge. 
March  20.       Commission  to  Henry  Bodrugan,  esquire,  and  .John  Arundell  of  TalfFern, 
Westminster,  esquire,  to  enquire  into  the  complaint  of  John  Dubrossay,  merchant  of 
Brittany,  that  about  three  years  ago  during  the  truces  between  the  king  and 
his  kinsman  the  duke  of  Brittany  certain  pirates  in  a  ship  of  Montesbay 
seized  a  ship  of  his  laden  with  92  tuns  of  wine  at  sea  and  took  it  to  the 
county  of  Cornwall  and  disposed  of  the  ship  and  wine  among  themselves, 
and  to  cause  restitution  to  be  made. 
May  IG.        Commission  de  walliis  et  fossatis  to  Robert  Martyn,  William  Appultre- 
Westminsttr.  feld,  .John  Banime,  John  Church,  William  Fynche  and  Robert  Bylsyngton 
between  .Milton  and  Feversham  in  the  county  of  Kent. 

July  22.        The  like  to  Richard  Harecourt,  knight,  Richard  Quatermayns,  William 
Westminster.  Marmyon,  Humphrey  Forster,  William  Fouler  and  Richard  Fouler  along 
the  water  called  '  Thame  streme  '  from  Nctherwichendou  to  Waterpuiy  in 
the  counties  of  Oxford  and  Huckingham  and  from  thence  to  Dorchostre  in 
the  county  of  Oxford. 


Memhrane  \9d. 

April  20.  Commission  to  William  Bourghchior  of  Fitzwareyn,  knight,  Richard 
Doginersficld.  Chok,  knight,  John  GifTord,  'I'homas  Dowerissh,  John  Orchard,  .fulin 
Denys,  John  Aps  the  elder,  William  Sprigge,  William  Duke,  Richard 
Moorton  the  elder,  Walter  Geyiicot,  Richarcl  Gort'erey  and  the  .sheriffs  of 
Devon  and  Cornwall  to  encjuirc  into  th(!  com[)laint  (if  John  May  of  Bristol, 
merchant,  late  owner  of  a  ship  called  liaphnell  of  Bristol,  that  this  .ship 
was  laden  at,  Dansk  in  Pi  ussia  (^S/trucea)  with  divers  goods  and  morchandijie 
to  take  to  Bristol  and  came  safe  to  England  and  on  Friday  after  Martinmas 
last  was  compelled  by  a  tempest  to  come  to  anchor  in  Bcdehay,  co.  Cornwall, 
and  was  driven  ashore  and  wrecked,  the  said  John  and  the  merchants  of  the 
ship  being  on  land  awaiting  its  unloading,  and  certain  subjects  of  the  king 
carried  away  divers  goods  and  merchandise  and  a  great  part  of  the  gear  of  the 
ship,  although  these  were  not  wreck  of  sea. 


Membrane  I5d. 

Juno  15.       Commission  to  Richard  Beauchamp,  Thomas  Stafford,  James  Brugge, 
Westminster.  William  Skidmorc,  George  Capull,  William  Carewc,  Walter  Survyour, 
John  Clement,  Thomas  Coke,  Giles  Knotto,  John  Wyld,  William  Pynchyn, 
the  sheriffs  of  Worcester  and  Hereford  and  John  IMartyn,  one  of  the  king's 
Serjeants  at  arms,  to  arrest  Roger  Coweley  of  Goh\all,  'gentihnan,'  Henry 


102 


CALENDAR  OF  PATENT  ROLLS. 


14G8.  Membrane  \bd — cont. 

Lynhals  of  Colwall,  '  busbondman,'  Ricbard  Golchyll  of  Colwall,  '  husbond- 
mau,'  Tbomas  Fareley  of  Bosbury,  '  husbondman,'  John  Hill  of  Bosbury, 
'  yoman,'  Richard  Powyck  of  Bosbury,  '  husbondman,'  John  Bacon  of 
Bosbury,  'husbondman,'  Richard  Oldebury  of  Broniyare,  clerk,  John 
Walweyn  of  Alkeryge,  '  gemilman,'  Thomas  Gebons  late  of  Alkeryge, 
'  laborer,'  John  ap  Richard  late  of  Alkeryge,  '  laborer,'  John  Dowell  late  of 
Alkeryge,  '  laborer,'  John  Baret  late  of  Estmore,  '  laborer,'  Thomas  Ryvers 
late  of  Estraore,  ' laborer,' John  Turnour  late  of  Estmore,  'husbondman,' 
John  Carpenter  late  of  Wcnlond,  *  husbondman,'  Richard  Tlieold  of 
Wenlond,  '  husbondman,'  Richard  Heynes  of  Welford,  '  husbondman,'  John 
Wager  of  Morton  Brutes,  '  laborer,'  John  Flecher  of  Ryd,  '  tlecher,' 
Robert  tianyes  ofLittlo  Malverne,  'mynstrell,'  William  Hannyes  of  Little 
Malvenie,  'laborer,'  John  Tethege  of  Little  Malverne,  'laborer,'  John 
rieccher  of  Great  Malverne,  '  corveser,'  John  Tony  of  Bromesbarewe, 
'  yoman,'  and  William  George  of  Ekyntou,  'husbondman,'  and  bring  them 
before  the  king  in  Chancery. 

July  3,         Commission  of  array  to  Humphrey  Stafford  of  Suthwyk,  knight,  John 
Westminster,  Dynhani  of  Dynham,  knight,  John  Arundell  of  Lanhern,  knight,  John 
Colshull,  knight,  Alvered  Corneburgh  esquire,  John  Champernoun,  Thomas 
Clemens,  William  Bere,  Thomas  Lucombe  and  the  sheriff  in  the  county  of 
Cornwall.  \_Fce(hra.^ 


Membrane  14(7. 

July  3.          Commission  of  oyer  and  terminer  to  William  Herbert  of  Herbert, 
■Westminster,  kuight,  Richard  Herbert,  knight,  Roger  Vaughan,  knight,  John  Mylc- 
water,  esquire,  Joliu  Herbert  and  Thomas  Morgan  iu  the  parts  of  North 
Wales,  with  power  of  pardon  for  the  said  William.  By  K. 

July  3.  Commission  of  oyer  and  terminer  to  the  king's  brother  George,  duke  of 
Westiiiiuster.  Clarence,  the  king's  kinsmen  Richard,  earl  of  Warwick  and  Salisbury, 
Henry,  carl  of  Essex,  John,  eai  l  of  Northumberland,  and  Richard,  earl  of 
Ryvers,  John  Dudley  of  Dudley,  knight,  John  Bourgchier  of  Berners, 
knight,  William  Fenys  of  Say  of  Seel,  knight,  William  Hastynges  of 
Hastynges,  knight,  Walter  Blount  of  Mountjoye,  knight,  John  Dynham  of 
Dynham,  knight,  John  Markham,  knight,  Robert  Danby,  knight,  William 
Yelverton,  knight,  Richard  Byngliam,  knight,  Thomas  Billyng,  AVilliam 
Laken,  Walter  Moyle,  knight,  John  Nedeliam,  knight,  Jiichard  Chok, 
knight,  Thomas  Littilton  and  Thomas  Yong  in  the  counties  of  Middlesex, 
Surrey  and  Essex.  By  K. 


Membrane  IZd. 

June  6.  Commission  to  the  king's  kinsman  John,  earl  of  Northumberland,  Ralph 
Westminster.  Graystok  of  Graystok,  kniglit,  James  Strangways,  knight,  John  Constable, 
knight,  Ralph  Asshetoii,  knight,  Richard  Pj  got,  Guy  Fayrefax  and  Thomas 
Wytham  to  enquire  into  the  supplication  of  .John  Sal  van,  knight,  that 
whereas  one  John  de  Malo  Lacu,  parson  of  the  church  of  Baynton,  was 
seised  of  tlie  manors  of  Doiicastre  and  JMulgravo  in  his  demesne  as  of  fee 
and  granted  them  to  Peter  de  Malo  Lacu  the  fifth,  son  of  Sir  Peter  de 
Malo  Lac.!,  ]\Iargaret  his  wife  and  the  heirs  of  their  bodies  and  they 
were  seised  of  the  same  in  time  of  peace  in  the  time  of  Edward  IL  and 
received  tiic  os])lees  thereof,  and  from  them  the  right  of  the  manors 
descended  to  their  son  and  heir  Peter  de  Malo  Lacu  the  sixth  and  from 
him  to  Peter  dc  Malo  Lacu  the  seventh  as  his  son  and  heir  and  from  him  to 
Peter  de  Mato  Lacu  the  eighth  as  his  son  and  heir,  and  from  him,  because 


8  EDWARD  IV.— Part  I. 


103 


1468.  Membrane  13rf — coiit. 

he  died  without  heir  of  his  body,  to  Constance  his  sister  and  one  of  his  heirs 
and  the  said  supplicant  as  his  kinsman  and  the  other  of  his  heirs,  viz.  son 
of  Elizabeth  the  other  sister  of  the  said  Peter,  and  the  said  John  and 
Constance  entered  into  the  manors  and  made  partition  of  them,  the  manor 
of  Doncastre  being  allotted  to  the  said  John,  and  thus  the  said  supplicant 
was  seised  of  the  said  manor  of  Doncastre  in  his  demesne  as  of  fee,  by  an 
inquisition  taken  at  the  castle  of  York  on  18  December,  4  Edward  IV. 
before  John  F'ereby,  pretending  to  be  escheator  in  the  county  of  York,  by 
colour  of  office  it  was  found  that  the  said  supplicant  was  seised  in  his 
demesne  as  of  foe  of  tlie  manors  of  Doncastre  and  Rosyngton  with  their 
members  and  appurtenances  in  the  said  county  and  enfeolfed  Henry  Percy, 
earl  of  Northumberland,  of  the  same  and  the  latter  was  seised  of  theni  in 
his  demesne  as  of  fee  and  on  his  death  they  descended  to  Henry  Percy  his 
son  and  heir  who  was  seised  of  them  and  continued  his  estate  in  them 
until  he  died  on  Palm  Sunday,  1  Edward  IV.  and  was  attainted  of  high 
treason  in  Parliament  at  Westminster,  4  November,  1  Edward  IV.  by 
which  the  said  manors  were  forfeited  to  the  king,  and  by  another  inquisition 
taken  at  V/akefeld,  co.  York,  on  10  August,  (j  I^dward  IV.  before  John 
Woderove,  then  escheator  in  the  county,  by  virtue  of  his  office  it  was  found 
that  Henry  Percy,  earl  of  Northumberland,  was  seised  of  the  manor  of 
Doncastre  in  his  demesne  as  of  fee  and  after  his  death  the  right  of  the 
manor  descended  to  Henry  Percy  his  son  and  heir,  who  died  seised  of  it 
and  was  attainted  as  above,  and  by  an  act  in  the  said  Parliament  it  was 
ordained  that  the  .said  Henry  Percy  should  forfeit  all  hi.s  possessions,  and 
accordingly  on  the  said  lb  December  the  manor  was  taken  itito  the  king's 
hands  by  the  said  John  Fereby  and  the  said  supplicant  expelled  from 
possession,  l)ut  that  he  never  enfeoffed  the  said  earl  of  the  manor  and  tlie 
latter  was  never  seised  of  it,  wherefore  he  prays  that  justice  may  be  done. 

By  p.s. 

MembRuINE  \2<l. 

Commission  of  oyer  and  terminer  to  tlie  king's  brother  George,  duke 
of  Clarence,  the  king's  kinsmen  Richard,  earl  of  Warwick  and  Salisbury, 
Henry,  earl  of  Essex,  John,  earl  of  Northumberland,  and  HiclianI,  earl  of 
Ryvers,  Jolin  Dudley  of  Dudley,  knight,  John  Bourgchier  of  Herners, 
knight,  William  Hastynges  of  Mastynges,  kniaht,  AValter  Blount  of 
Mountjoye,  kniglit,  John  Dynham  of  Dynhani,  knight,  John  Markliam, 
knight,  Thomas  Orgrave,  mayor  of  London,  Robert  Danliy,  knight,  William 
Yelverton,  knight,  Richard  Byngham,  knight,  Thomas  Billyng,  William 
Laken,  Walter  Moyle,  knight,  John  Nedeliam,  knight,  Richard  Chok, 
knight,  Thomas  Litilton,  Thomas  Yong  and  Thomas  Urswyk  within  the 
city  of  London  and  the  liberty  of  the  same.  By  K. 

Commission  to  John  Nedeham,  knight,  Thomas  Littelton,  James  Strang- 
way.«,  knight,  \\n\\>h  Ayssheton,  knight,  Thomas  (-ierard,  kiught,  John 
Trallbrd,  knight,  Thomas  Witham,  Richard  Pygot,  'I'homas  Gower,  es<piire, 
Henry  Halsall,  esquire,  Thomas  Doucalf  and  Richard  Carlyile  to  enciuiro 
what  lands  John  Haryngton,  knight,  deceased,  held  in  the  county  of  York, 
and  who  is  his  heir.  By  K. 

Like  commission  concerning  the  lands  lield  by  Thomas  Haryngton, 
kniglit,  deceased.  By  K. 

Commission  to  William  Herbert  of  Herbert,  knight,  and  Walter  Devereu.v 
of  Ferrers,  kniglit,  to  array  the  men  of  the  counties  of  Gh)ucester,  Hereford, 
alul  Salop,  iind  the  marches  of  Wales  and  the  parts  a<ljacent,  against 
Margaret,  wife  of  the  late  king,  and  Jasper,  late  carl  of  Pembroke,  and 
other  rebels.  -       '    ■  By  K. 


June  20. 
Westminster. 


June  30. 
Westminster. 


July  3. 
^Vestmin8te^. 


104 


CALENDAR  OF  PATENT  ROLLS. 


1468.  Membrane  9d. 

July  22.  Commission  to  Richard  West  de  la  Warr,  knight,  John  Cooke,  John 
Westminster.  Goryng,  Thomas  Steddalf,  Peter  Versk,  and  Thomas  Markham  to  enquire 
into  the  complaint  of  John  Robdyn  of  Abvilde,  subject  of  the  king's 
brother  Charles,  duke  of  Burgundy,  that  when  he  had  laden  250  quarters 
of  wheat  in  a  ship  of  Cornelius  Johnson  of  Vangoos  in  Seland  at  Abvylde 
to  take  to  England  or  Flanders  one  John  Waynfiete  with  others  of  his 
retinue  in  two  balingers  of  England  came  upon  the  ship  thus  laden  sailing 
to  Flanders  and  took  it  to  Shoreliam,  co.  Sussex,  contrary  to  the  form  of 
the  truces  between  the  king  and  the  said  duke,  and  to  cause  restitution  to  be 
made  and  to  arrest  and  imprison  the  offenders. 

July  31.  Commission  to  Nicholas  Gaynesforde,  esquire,  to  take  into  the  king's 
Westminster,  hands  all  the  goods  and  chattels  and  the  issues  of  the  lands  of  Nicholas  Husy 
late  of  Hertyng,  co.  Sussex,  esquire,  alias  late  of  Suthwerk,  co.  Surrey, 
esquire,  indicted  for  divers  treasons  before  the  king's  brother,  George  duke 
of  Clarence,  and  other  commissioners  of  oyer  and  terminer  in  the  city  of 
London  and  outlawed.  By  bill  of  the  treasurer. 


Membrane  Sd. 

July  20.  The  king  lately  by  letters  patent  {see  p.  101)  commissioned  Henry 
Westminster.  Bodrugan,  esquire,  and  John  Arundell  of  Talffern,  esquire,  to  enquire  into 
thecomplaint  of  John  Dubrossay  concerning  the  capture  of  a  ship  of  his  laden 
with  wine,  and  the  said  Henry  has  returned  into  Chancery  that  Peter 
Jacherry  of  Porthia,  Joceus  Amell  of  the  same,  John  Petyt  of  the  same 
and  William  Whita  of  the  same  were  owners  of  a  ship  called  le  Cristofer  of 
Porthia,  by  which  ship  and  the  men  in  it  the  said  ship  and  wine  of  Jo'nn 
Dubrossay  were  captured,  and  that  they  and  John  Calmady  of  Lavaunta  were 
victuallers  of  le  Cristofer  and  the  said  William  was  master  and  John  Joseph 
and  Gilbert  Rous  of  Moushole  were  in  the  ship  at  the  time  of  the  capture,  and 
2  tuns  of  the  wine  came  to  the  hands  of  John  Basset,  esquire,  3  tuns  to  William 
Trehere,  vicar  of  Sent  Keveran,  5  tuns  to  David  Engoef  of  Sent  la,  2  tuns 
to  Agnes  Trenuwith,  3  tuns  to  Thomas  Lucombe,  1  tun  to  John  Lome  of 
Treswethen,  3  tuns  to  Thomas  Lymby,  2  tuns  to  John  Dawna  of  Roswory, 
2  tuns  to  John  Michell  of  Seynt  Columbe,  1  tun  to  William  Michell  of 
Seynt  Columbe,  2  tuns  to  Peter  Gervas,  3  tuns  to  Amice  Tregose,  2  tuns  to 
William  Lagher  of  Truru,  4  tuns  to  William  Clemowe  of  Marghaiowe, 
2  tuns  to  John  Gybbys  of  Pensaus,  3  tuns  to  William  Rosmoders,  4  tuns  to 
William  Reynold  of  Sentbreak,  5  tuns  to  the  said  John  Calmady,  2  tuns  to 
Richard  Lelly,  2  tuns  to  Richard  Houton,  3  pipes,  worth  60j.,  to  Thomas 
Trenthgans,  1  tun  to  James  Dayowo  of  Pensans,  5  tuns  to  Gilbert  Rous  of 
Mouaehole,  I  tun  to  Thomas  Emot  of  Pensans,  3  tuns  to  Thomas  Kellygrewe, 
1  tun  to  Henry  Dayowe,  and  2  tuns  to  John  Barry,  each  tun  being  worth 
21.  and  the  ship  and  the  residue  of  the  wine  are  in  the  hands  of  the  said 
Peter,  Joceus,  John  and  William,  but  on  account  of  the  shortness  of  the 
time  no  arrest  or  restitution  has  been  made.  The  king  accordingly  hereby 
commissions  the  said  Henry  and  John  to  arrest  the  above-mentioned  persons 
and  cause  restitution  to  be  made. 


Membrane  Id, 

Aug.  26.        Commission  to  Richard  Neel,  serjeant  at  law,   Richard  Hastynges, 
Westminster,  esquire,  Robert  Staunton,  Thomas  Hervy  and  Richard  Reynold  to  enquire 
what  lands  Elizabeth  late  the  wife  of  Robert  Moton,  knight,  held  in  the 
county  of  Leicester  on  the  day  of  her  death  and  who  is  her  heir,  and  to  take 
the  lands  into  the  king's  hands. 


8  EDWARD  IV.— Part  I. 


105 


14G8 

Aug.  30. 
Westminster. 


Sept.  3. 
Wc'btminster. 


Membrane  7d — cont. 

Commission  to  Adam  Godale,  one  of  the  king's  Serjeants  at  arms,  and 
Peter  Boweniun,  clerk  of  the  king's  ships,  to  take  ships  and  other  vessels 
for  the  conduct  of  Walter  Blount  of  Mountjoye,  knight,  and  certain  soldic-rs 
going  in  his  company  to  foreign  parts,  and  masters  and  mariners  for  them, 
to  be  in  the  port  of  Portesmouth  or  any  other  port  assigned  by  28  September 
next.  By  K. 

Like  comKiission  for  the  conduct  of  Antony  Widevile  of  Scales,  knight, 
as  above  at  Gravasen'ie  in  the  port  of  London.  By  K. 

Commission  to  John  Walop  and  John  Weston,  constables  of  Bromleye, 
to  arrest  John  Lydo  of  Neunara  and  one  Geoffrey  de  Neunan,  chaplain,  and 
bring  them  before  the  king  and  council. 


Membrane  5d. 

Oct.  26.  Commission  to  Philip  Beaumont,  John  Denys  and  John  Orchard  to 
Wsstminster.  enquire  into  the  complaint  of  the  king's  subjects  dwelling  within  the  hundred 
of  Shirwill,  co.  Devon,  and  the  adjacent  parts  that  a  highway  leading  from 
a  place  called  '  Mable  Crosse  '  within  the  said  hundred  to  the  s«a  by  and 
\7ithin  the  town  of  Wolcombe,  by  which  from  time  immemorial  there  was 
common  passage  for  men  on  horse  or  on  foot  and  carts,  wagons,  horses  and 
mares,  has  been  blocked. 


106 


8  EDWARD  IV.— Part  II. 


1468. 

July  23. 
Westmiuster 


Aug.  2. 
Westminster. 


July  27. 
Westminster. 


July  30. 
Westminster. 


Aug.  6. 
Westminster. 


July  20 . 

Westminster. 


May  19. 

Westminster. 


Aug.  12. 

Westminster. 


Sept.  10. 
Westrainster. 


Membrane  27. 

Grant  to  the  abbot  and  convent  of  the  monastery  of  St.  Mary,  Stratford 
Langthornc,  co.  Fssex,  which  is  of  the  foundation  of  the  king's  progenitors 
and  of  the  king's  patronage,  of  two  tuns  of  red  wine  yearly  in  the  port  of 
London,  one  at  Martinmas  and  the  other  at  Easter,  at  the  hands  of  the 
king's  butler,  for  the  celebration  of  masses  in  the  monastery.  By  p.s. 

Exemption  for  life  of  Thomas  Nevile  of  Rowlstone,  co.  Nottingham, 
esquire,  from  being  put  on  assizes,  juries,  i-ecognisances,  attaints  or 
inquisitions  and  from  being  made  sheriff,  bailiff,  escheator,  coroner, 
constable,  reeve,  collector,  assessor,  taxer  or  controller  of  tenths,  fifteenths, 
or  other  subsides,  trier,  arrayer  or  any  other  officer  or  commissioner  of  the 
king.  By  p.s. 

Grant  to  Simon  Mountford,  knight,  in  repayment  of  the  sum  of  400/. 
due  to  him  from  the  king,  of  100/.  from  the  issues  of  the  hanaper,  20/.  from 
the  issues  of  the  counties  of  Warwick  and  fjeicester,  20/.  from  the  issues  of 
the  county  of  Stafford,  20/.  from  the  issues  of  the  county  of  Gloucester,  20/. 
from  the  issues  of  the  counties  of  Essex  and  Hertford,  20/.  from  the  issues 
of  the  county  of  Northampton,  100/.  from  the  subsidy  of  the  35.  in  the  tun, 
and  the  12d.  in  the  pound  in  tiie  port  of  London,  and  100/.  from  the 
customs  and  subsidies  in  the  port  of  Bristol.  By  p.s. 

Grant  to  John  Leynham  alias  John  Plomer  of  London,  knight,  of  all 
goods,  debts,  rents,  and  arrears  lately  belonging  to  him  and  now  belonging 
to  the  king  by  reason  of  any  forfeiture.  By  p.s. 

Presentation  of  Thomas  Hewe,  chaplain,  to  the  parish  church  of 
Lasseham,  in  the  diocese  of  Winchester,  void  by  the  resignation  of  William 
Champe,  last  rector. 

Licence  for  Robert  Ingilton  to  grant  the  castle,  lordship  or  manor  of 
Mynteshede  alias  Kendale,  3,000  acres  of  arable  land,  100  acres  of  meadow, 
6,000  acres  of  pasture,  8/.  yearly  of  rent  and  a  water-mill  in  Kendale,  a  moiety 
of  a  water-mill  in  Patton  and  a  moiety  of  a  water-mill  in  Strikland  Ketill, 
held  in  chief,  to  Richard,  earl  of  Warwick,  William  Parre,  knight,  and  Joan, 
liis  wife,  Henry  Sotehill,  Thomas  Middelton,  esquire,  Thomas  Parr,  esquire, 
and  William  Feynt  and  the  heirs  of  the  bodies  of  the  said  William  Parre  and 
Joan,  with  remainders  to  the  heirs  of  the  body  of  the  said  William  and  to 
the  right  heirs  of  Thomas  Parre,  knight,  his  father,  to  hold  by  the  services 
of  as  many  knights'  fees  and  as  many  other  rents  and  services  as  they  were 
held  by  before  4  March,  1  Edward  IV.  By  p.s. 

Grant  to  William  Hastinges,  lord  of  Hastinges,  knight,  and  John  Parre, 
one  of  the  esquires  of  the  body,  of  the  presentation  to  the  next  vacant 
canonry  and  prebend  in  the  king's  free  chapel  within  the  palace  of  West- 
minster. By  p.s. 

Mandate  to  all  bailiffs  and  others  to  permit  James  Johnson,  born  at 
Bonby  in  Scotland,  dwelling  at  Aylcsford  within  the  realm  of  England,  who 
has  taken  the  oath  of  allegiance,  to  inhabit  the  realm  peaceably  and  enjoy  his 
goods. 

Presentation  of  William  John  to  the  church  of  Llampadarn  Vawre  in 
South  Wales,  in  the  diocese  of  St.  Davids,  void  by  the  resignation  of  William 
ap  Ho,  last  parson.  By  p.s. 


8  EDWARD  IV.— Part  II. 


107 


Membrane  27 — cont. 

March  24.  Appoiatinent,  during  pleasure,  of  Nicholas  Cervyngton  as  gauger  in  the 
Westminster,  port  of  Bristol  and  ports  and  places  adjacent,  receiving  the  accustomed  fees. 

By  bill  of  the  treasurer. 

Membrane  26. 

Aug.  27.        Licence  for  the  prior  and  convent  of  Ramsey,  of  the  order  of  St.  Benedict, 
Westminster,  in  the  diocese  of  Lincoln,  to  elect  an  abbot  in  the  place  of  John  Stowe, 
resigned.  By  p.s. 

Sept.  9.        Signification  to  J.  bishop  of  Lincoln  of  the  royal  assent  to  the  election  of 
Westminster.  William  Witlesey,  bachelor  of  theology,  monk  of  the  monaslery  of  Ramsey, 
as  abbot  of  that  place.  By  p.s. 

Sept.  3.  Grant  for  life  to  the  king's  brother  George,  duke  of  Clarence,  of  tiie 
Westminster,  reversion  of  the  oflices  of  chief  justice  in  eyre  of  the  king's  forests,  chaces 
and  parks  on  this  side  Trent,  steward  and  chief  keeper  of  the  same  and 
master  of  the  king's  hunt  of  the  same,  lately  granted  for  life  to  the  king's 
uncle  Henry  l^ourghchier,  knight,  earl  of  Essex,  whenever  they  or  any 
of  them  shall  become  void  by  the  death  of  the  said  earl  or  otherwise. 

By  p.s. 

Sept.  10.  General  pardon  to  John  Dounton  late  of  Walington,  co.  Surrey, 
Westminster.  '  gentilman,'  of  all  oflTencos  committetl  by  him  before  9  September. 

By  p.s. 

Aug.  29.        Mandate  to  the  escheator  in  the  counties  of  Es.sex  and  Hertford  for  the 
Westminster,  restitution  of  the  temporalities  of  the  abbey  of  St.  John,  Colchestei-,  to 
Walter  Stanstod,  monk  of  the  monaslery,  who.se  election  as  abbot  Tli. 
bishop  of  London  has  confirmed  and  whose  fealty  tlie  king  has  taken. 

The  like  to  the  following  : — 

The  escheator  in  the  county  of  Suffolk. 

Thomas  Owelegre,  mayor  of  London  and  escheator  in  that  city. 

Writ  de  intendendo  in  pursuance  to  tiic  tenants. 

Sept.  3.        Presentation   of   Edmund   Fysshe,   parson   of   the  parish   church  of 
Westminster.  Wolyngdonbisshop,  in  the  diocese  of  London,  to  the  parish  chureii  of 
Risyngcastell,  in  the  diocese  of  Norwicii,  on  an  exchange  of  benefices  with 
William  Hamond. 

Sept.  26.       Grant  to  Morgan  ap  Meredith,  born  in  the  county  of  Caernnrvan  iu 
Westminster.  Wales,  that  he  may  become  a  citizen  or  burgess  of  the  town  of  Caernarvan 
or  any  other  cities,  borouglis  and  towns  in  Wales  and  the  marclies,  and  may 
receive  any  ofhce  granted  by  the  king  within  the  Siinie,  and  may  carry  arms, 
notwithstanding  the  statute  in  Parliament,  2  Henry  IV.  By  p.s. 

Oct.  5.         Pardon  to  Arthur  Pylkyngton,  esquire,  late  escheator  in  the  counties  of 
Westminster.  Cambridge  and  Huntingdon,  of  all  offences  conmiitted  by  him  and  all 
debts,  accounts  and  arrears  due  from  him  to  the  king  before  4  October. 

By  p.s. 

Membrane  25. 

Aug.  18.       Grant  to  tlie  king's  kinswoman  Joan,  sister  of  the  king's  kinsman  John, 
Dogmersfield.   late  duke  of  Norfolk,  and  late  the  wife  of  William  Willughby,  knight,  and 
the  heirs  of  her  body  of  a  yearly  rent  of  100  marks  from  the  subsidy 
of  the  3*.  in  the  tun  and  the  \?,d.  in  the  poimd  in  the  port  of  London. 

By  p.s. 

Mandate  in  pursuance  to  the  collectors. 

Sept.  6.  General  pardon  to  Humphrey  Hayfordo,  citizen  and  goldsmith  of  London. 
We.stniinster.  Jjy  J^, 


108 


CALENDAR  OF  PATENT  ROLLS. 


1468.  Membrane  25 — cont. 

Sept.  26.       Grant  to  David  Canons,  born  in  the  county  of  Caernarvan  in  Wales,  that 
Westminster,  he  may  become  a  citizen  or  burgess  of  the  town  of  Caernarvan  or  any  other 
cities,  boroughs  and  towns  in  Wales  and  the  marches,  and  may  receive  any 
office  granted  by  the  king  within  the  same,  and  may  carry  arms,  notwith- 
standing the  statute  in  Parliament,  2  Henry  IV.  By  p.s. 

Sept.  23.       Pardon  to  Thomas  Wayte  and   John  Wavton,  citizens  of  London, 
Westminster,  executors  of  the  will  of  Margaret  Bate  of  London,  widow,  of  all  claim  the 
king  may  have  against  them  for  any  jewels,  goods,  merchandise  and  sums 
of  money  late  of  the  said  Margaret.  By  p.s 

Sept.  10.        Grant  for  life  to  John  Rogger,  esquire,  and  John  Adam  his  brother  of 
Westminster,  the  office  of  bailiff  of  the  town  of  Sandwich  with  the  accustomed  fees,  in 
lieu  of  a  like  grant  to  Thomas  Dixson,  servant  of  the  king's  cellar,  by 
letters  patent  dated  20  March,  1  Edward  IV.  surrendered.  By  p.s. 

Sept.  29.        Grant  for  life  to  William  Clyff,  for  his  good  service  to  the  king's  father 
Westminster,  and  the  king,  of  the  office  of  porter  of  the  king's  castle  of  Hereford  with 
the  custody  of  the  gaol  of  the  county  of  Hereford,  with  all  accustomed 
profits.  By  p.s. 

Oct.  14.  General  pardon  to  Richard  Taylour  late  of  Warstlyngworth,  co.  Bedford, 
Westminster.  '  laborer,'  of  all  offences  committed  by  him  before  12  October.  By  p.s. 


Membrane  24. 

July  7.  Grant  to  the  king's  mother  Cicely,  duchess  of  York,  in  lieu  of  a  grant  to 
Westminster,  her  by  letters  patent  dated  1  June,  1  Edward  IV.  of  400/.  yearly  from 
the  customs  of  wools,  hides  and  wool-fells  in  the  port  of  Kyngeston  on  Hull 
and  289/.  ^s.  8d.  from  the  like  in  the  port  of  London,  of  which  she  has 
received  no  payment,  that  she  or  her  factors  or  attorneys  in  the  next  two 
years  may  ship  854  sacks  and  bales  of  wool  in  the  ports  of  London, 
Sandwich  or  Suthampton  and  take  them  to  foreign  parts  by  the  straits  of 
Marrok  quit  of  customs  and  subsidies,  and  afterwards  258^  sacks  and  bales 
yearly  in  like  manner,  until  the  king  shall  make  other  provision.       By  p.s. 

Mandate  in  pursuance  to  the  customers  or  collectors  in  the  port  of 
London. 

July  17.        Licence  for  the  prior  and  convent  of  the  monastery  of  St.  John  Baptist, 
Westminster.  Colchester,  to  elect  an  abbot  in  the  place  of  John  Canone,  last  abbot, 
deceased.  By  p.s. 


Membrane  23. 

July  1 8.  Grant  to  John  Brokeman,  esquire,  and  the  heirs  male  of  his  body  of  a 
Westminster,  messuage,  a  dove-cote  and  450  acres  of  land  in  Birchington  and  Monketon 
in  the  Isle  of  Thanet,  co.  Kent,  late  of  Henry  Beauford,  late  duke  of 
Somerset,  and  in  the  king's  hands  by  reason  of  an  act  of  Parliament  at 
Westminster,  4  November,  1  Edward  IV.  to  hold  from  Eat;ter  last  by  the 
services  of  as  many  knights'  fees  and  as  many  other  rents  and  services  as 
they  were  held  by  before  4  March,  1  Edward  IV,  By  p.s. 

Aug.  7.  Exemption  for  life  of  John  Croke  fi-om  being  put  on  assizes,  juries, 
Westminster,  inquisitions,  attaints  or  recognisances  and  from  being  made  justice, 
commissioner,  admiral,  mayor,  guardian,  sheriff,  escheator,  coroner,  steward, 
bailiff,  reeve,  receiver,  customer,  controller,  taxer,  ulnager,  searcher, 
ganger,  approver,  collector  of  tenths,  fifteenths  or  other  aid,  constable, 
warden,  marshal,  usher,  leader,  arrayer  or  trier  of  men  at  arms,  hobelers 
or  archers  or  other  officer  or  minister  of  the  king  against  his  will.     By  p.s. 

Sept.  29.  Grant  for  life  to  Thomas  Thwaites  of  the  office  of  high  bailiff  of  the 
Westminster,  county  of  Guysnes  in  the  marches  of  Picardy  and  the  custody  of  the  king's 


8  EDWARD  IV.— Part  II. 


109 


1468.  Membrane  23 — cont. 

victuals  in  the  castle  of  Guysnes,  receiving  such  wages  from  the  customs 
of  8<?.  from  each  sack  of  wool  and  every  240  wool-fells  leaving  the  town  of 
Calais  as  John  Walden  had  in  the  time  of  Richard  II.  with  all  other 
profits  ;  in  lieu  of  a  like  grant  to  Thomas  Herbert  the  younger,  esquire, 
by  letters  patent  dated  1  June,  3  Edward  IV.  surrendered.  By  p.s. 

Oct.  3.         General  pardon  to  John  Gogh  alias  .loones  late  of  Bristol,  'yoman,' 
Westminster,  late  one  of  the  messengers  of  the  king's  chamber,  of  all  offences  committed 
by  him  before  30  September  last.  By  p.s. 

Sept.  28.        Grant  for  life  to  John  Rogger,  esquire,  and  Alice  his  wife  of  underwood 
Westminster,  and  estover  to  the  quantity  of  two  acres  for  fuel  within  the  king's  woods 
called  '  le  Kingeswode '  and  '  le  Frithe  '  in  the  parishes  of  Ledys,  Langle 
and  Sutton,  co.  Kent,  not  exceeding  the  yearly  value  of  4  marks.     By  p.s. 

Oct.  7.         Appointment  of  Anthony  Widevile  of  Scales  and  Nucelle.«,  king's  knight, 
Westminster,  as  governor  and  captain  of  the  king's  armed  power  shortly  proceeding  to 
sea  and  elsewhere  for  the  resistance  of  the  king's  enemies.  \Fcederar\ 

By  K. 

Oct.  6.         Grant  to  Dan  John  Stratton,  monk,  of  the  priory  of  Wenlok,  in  the 
W.estminster.  diocese  of  Hereford,  void  by  the  death  of  the  last  incumbent,  and  appoint- 
ment of  him  as  prior.  By  p.s. 

Oct.  17.         Presentation  of  Master  Edward  Undcrwode  to  the  parish  church  of 
Westminster.  St.  Mary  Moises  in  le  Frydaystrete,  London,  in  the  diocese  of  Loudon, 
void  by  the  resignation  of  John  Clerk. 

Membrane  22. 

May  30.  Pardon  to  Roger  Pierpount  late  of  Lanforth,co.  Nottingham,  'gentilman,' 
Westminster,  of  his  outlawry  in  London  for  not  appearing  before  Jolin  Prysot  and  his 
fellows,  justices  of  the  Bench  of  the  late  king,  to  satisfy  John  Brampton, 
citizen  and  '  stokfysshmonger ',  of  London,  of  a  debt  of  20/.  which  he 
recovered  against  him  and  J[0(>.v.  damages;  behaving  surrendered  to  the 
MarshaLsea  prison  and  satisfied  the  said  John,  as  John  Markhani,  knight, 
chief  justice  of  the  King's  Bench,  has  certified. 

June  27.  Pardon  to  Stephen  Chapman,  mayor  of  Plynimoutli,  co.  Devon, 
Westminster.  '  marchaunt,'  of  four  outlawries  in  the  county  of  Devon  for  not  ajjpearing 
before  John  Prysot  and  his  fellows,  justices  of  the  Bench  of  the  late  king, 
to  satisfy  the  late  king  of  his  ransom  for  a  trespass  figainst  John  Carwynnek, 
to  answer  Richard  Ryke  when  .sued  with  Richard  Cokkc  of  Plynimouth, 
'  marchant,'  and  John  Marchant  of  Stokedaniercll,  co.  Devon,  '  maryner,' 
touching  a  trespass,  and  to  answer  Henry  Fortcscu,  laic  sheriil'  of  Devon, 
touching  a  debt  of  20/.  and  John  Facy  touching  a  debt  of  4  marks:  he 
having  surrendered  to  the  Flete  prison  and  satisfied  the  king  of  the  said 
ransom,  as  Robert  Daiiby,  chief  justice  of  the  Bench,  has  certified. 

July  2.  Exemption  for  life  of  Richard  Forstcr  of  Bristol,  'gentilman,'  from  being 
Westminster,  put  on  a,-;sizes,  juries,  attaints,  summons  of  bedels,  recognisances  or 
in(iuisitions,  and  from  being  made  trier  of  the  .«aine,  mayor,  sheriff, 
csclieator,  coroner.,  constable,  customer,  justice,  collector,  assessor,  taxer, 
surveyor  or  controller  of  tenths,  fifteenths  or  other  subsidy,  arrayer  or 
trier  of  men  at  arms,  hobelers  or  archers  or  other  oflicer,  bailiff  or  minister 
of  the  king,  or  knight  of  any  shire  or  citizen  or  burgess  for  any  city  or 
town  in  Parliament  against  his  will ;  and  grant  that  nothing  shall  be  taken 
of  his  goods  by  the  purveyors  of  the  houseliold.  By  p.s. 

July  4.         Pardon  to  Simon  Raule  alias  Rale    alias   Raley  alias  Raulyn  of 
Westminster.  Blaneford  Forum,  co.  Dorset,  '  courtliolder,'  of  his  outlawry  in  the  county 
of  Dorset  for  not  appearing  before  the  kuig  to  answer  for  certain  trespasses 


110 


CALENDAR  OP  PATENT  EOLLS. 


14(53,  Membrane  22 — cont. 

against  tlie  form  of  the  statute  of  liveries  of  cloths,  he  having  surrendered 
to  the  Marshalsea  prison,  us  Johu  Markeham,  knight,  chief  justice  of  the 
King's  Bench,  has  certified. 
July  12.  Grant  for  life  to  John  Cattys  of  Mereworth,  co.  Kent,  '  gentilinan,'  for 
Westminster,  his  good  services  and  because  he  was  wounded  at  Towton  Felde,  co.  York, 
by  the  rebels  and  left  for  dead,  of  10/.  yearly  from  Michaelmas  last  from 
the  customs  and  subsidies  in  the  port  of  Sandwich  and  ports  and  places 
adjacent.  By  p.s. 

Mandate  in  pursuance  to  the  customers. 
Oct.  13.        Graut  for  life  to  the  king's  servitor  William  Byrde,  esquire,  of  a  yearly 
Westminster,  rent  of  10/.  from  the  subsidy  called  '  aliens  silver'  in  the  Cinque  Ports, 

By  p.s. 

Oct.  17.  Bevocation  of  the  protection,  with  clause  volumus,  for  one  year,  lately 
Westminster,  granted  by  letters  patent  to  John  Hopkyn  of  Bossu  by  Tregean,  co. 

Cornwall,  '  yeoman,'  staying  in  Ireland  on  the  king's  service  in  the  company 
of  the  king's  kinsman  John,  earl  of  Worcester,  deputy  of  the  king's  brother 
George,  duke  of  Clarence,  lieutenant  of  Ireland,  on  the  safe  custody,  defence 
and  victualling  of  that  laud,  because  he  delays  at  Bossue,  as  John  Sturgeon, 
esquire,  sheriff  of  the  county,  has  certified. 

Sept.  12.  Licence,  for  6  marks  paid  in  the  hanaper,  for  Thomas  Charles,  esquire, 
Westminster,  and  Elizabeth  his  wife  to  grant  the  manor  of  Ketelbergh  and  60  messuages, 
600  acres  of  land,  40  acres  of  meadow,  ^00  acres  of  pasture,  40  acres  of 
wood,  40/.  of  rent  and  a  rent  of  50  capons  in  Ketelbergh,  Eston,  Eyssh, 
Rendelesham,  Eykes,  Bromeswell,  Wandesdon,  Chisilford,  Butleigh,  Boiton, 
Toweton,  Suthburn,  Tostale,  Blakeshale,  Marleford,  Glemeham,  Swyftlyng, 
Cranesford,  Perham  and  Frammyngham,  co.  Sufiblk,  and  the  advowsons  of 
the  churches  of  Ketelbergh  and  Eston,  held  in  chief,  to  John,  duke  of 
Norfolk,  and  his  heirs. 


Membrane  21. 


Oct.  9. 

Westminster. 

Oct.  8. 

Westminster. 


Oct.  12. 

Westminster. 

Oct.  9. 
Westminster. 


Grant  to  Elizabeth  the  king's  consort  of  the  sum  of  400/.  yearly  at  the 
receipt  of  the  Exchequer  for  the  expenses  of  the  king's  daughters  Elizabeth 
and  Mai-y,  until  the  king  shall  make  other  provision.    [Foedera,']     By  p.s. 

Appointment,  during  good  behaviour,  of  Master  Thomas  Appulton  as 
clerk  of  the  king's  constableship  of  England  and  promoter  of  business 
concei'ning  the  king's  majesty,  receiving  20  marks  yearly  at  the  receipt  of 
the  Exchequer  with  all  other  accustomed  fees,  in  the  same  manner  as 
Master  Thomas  Brouns  received  the  same.  By  p.s. 

Grant  for  life  to  Walter  Scull,  knight,  of  an  annuity  of  20/.  from 
Michaelmas,  7  Edward  IV.  from  the  issues  of  the  king's  castles,  manors 
and  lordships  in  South  Wales.  By  p.s. 

Grant  to  Walter  Scull,  knight,  and  Frances  his  wife  and  the  heirs  of 
the  body  of  Walter  of  the  manors  of  Aleynesmore  and  Avynsbury,  co. 
Hereford,  late  of  William  Mulle,  knight,  with  bondmen  and  their  issue, 
knights'  fees,  commons,  pastures,  easements,  courts  leet,  views  of  frank' 
pledge,  parks,  warrens  and  all  other  profits,  in  the  king's  hands  by  reason 
of  an  act  of  forfeiture  in  Parliament  at  Westminster,  4  November, 
1  Edward  IV.  to  hold  by  tlie  services  of  as  many  knights'  fees  and  as  many 
other  rents  and  services  as  they  were  held  by  before  4  March,  1  Edward  IV. 
and  all  lands,  meadows,  feedings,  pastures,  rents,  reversions  and  services 
in  Wyche,  Doverdale  and  their  suburbs,  Wichebold,  Croule,  Mitton  and 
Hertilbury,  co.  Worcester,  in  the  king's  hands  by  reason  of  the  forfeiture  of 
John  Lenche,  esquire,  attainted  by  authority  of  the  said  Parliament,  to  hold 
as  above  ;  and  all  issues  from  Easter,  7  Edward  IV.  By  p.s. 


8  EDWARD  IV.— Part  II. 


Ill 


1468.  Membra7ie  21 — cont. 

Oct.  13.        Grant  to  Tliomas  Bonyfaunt,  prebendary  of  the  prebend  of  Bronnesbury 
Westminster,  in  the  cathedral  cliurch  of  8t.  Paul,  London,  of  a  prebend  within  the  free 
chapel  of  Si.  Stephen  within  the  king's  palace  of  Westminster,  on  an 
exchange  of  prebends  with  William  Westbury,  By  p.s. 

Mandate  in  pursuance  to  the  dean  and  chapter  of  the  chapel. 

Oct.  9.  Grant  to  W^alter  Blount,  knipjht,  lord  Mountjoye,  in  lieu  of  a  like  grant 
Westminster,  by  letters  patent  dated  13  February  last,  surrendered  because  invalid,  of 
the  custody  of  all  manors,  lands  and  possessions  with  advowsons  and  offices 
late  of  Thomas  Blount,  esquire,  tenant  in  chief,  during  the  minority  of 
Robert  his  son  and  heir  and  the  custody  and  marriage  of  tho  latter  without 
disparagement,  and  so  from  heir  to  heir.  By  p.s. 

May  28.  Licence  for  the  acquisition  in  mortmain,  after  inquisition, by  the  principal 
Westminster,  and  commonalty  of  the  vicars  of  Holy  Trinity,  Chichester,  of  lands,  rents 
or  other  possessions,  not  held  in  chief,  to  the  value  of  40  marks  yearly  in 
augmentation  of  their  sustenance  and  that  they  may  pray  for  the  good 
estate  of  the  king  and  his  consort  Elizabeth,  queen  of  England,  and  for 
their  souls  after  death.  By  p.s.  and  for  40/.  paid  in  the  hanaper. 

Oct.  12.  Grant  to  the  king's  kinsman  William,  earl  of  Pembroke,  of  power  and 
Westminster,  authority  to  make  a  weir  across  the  river  Thames  called  '  Overithwartwere  ' 
from  the  Middlesex  shore  to  the  Surrey  shore  in  the  place  where  a  weir 
called  '  Holgyllys  Were '  used  to  be,  viz.  from  the  lane  called  *  Paternoster 
Lane  '  in  the  county  of  Middlesex  on  the  west  to  the  east  part  of  the  same 
place  called  '  le  gardyn '  or  '  Hokehawes  '  in  the  same  county,  and  to  take 
fish  in  it,  saving  a  reasonable  way  on  tht^  Surnjy  side  for  the  passage  of 
barges,  skiffs  and  other  vessels;  and  grant  to  him  and  his  heirs  and  assigns 
of  the  said  weir  when  made  with  all  profits  pertaining  to  any  weir  in  the 
said  river,  as  the  prior  and  convent  of  IMcrton,  co.  Surrey,  have  in  their 
weir,  rendering  to  the  king  20a-.  yearly.  And  this  for  20.v.  id.  to  be  paid 
in  the  hanaper  for  the  fee  of  the  great  seal.  By  p.s. 

Vacated  by  nurrender  by  Kenelm  Dygas,  atlorncy  of  the  earl,  and 
cancelled  in  accordance  with  a  mandate  of  the  king  by  trrit  of  privy  seal 
to  Robert,  bishop  of  Bath  and  JVells  and  chancellor,  and  liolicrt 
Kirkcliani,  hincf's  clerk,  keeper  of  the  rolls  and  boohs  of  Chancery,  on 
24  April,  9  Edward  IV. 
Oct.  24.  Pardon,  on  account  of  the  special  devotion  of  the  king  to  the  glorious 
Westuiiusfcr.  confessor  St.  John,  sometime  prior  of  the  monastery  of  St.  Mary,  Brid- 
lington, to  Peter  Hellard,  now  prior,  and  the  convent  of  that  place  of  all 
accounts  pertaining  to  the  king.  By  p.s. 


Membrane  20. 

Sept.  20.  Jnspeximus  and  confirmation  to  the  abbot  and  convent  of  St.  Mary  Graces 
Westminster,  by  the  Tower  of  London  of  the  following  :— 

1.  Letters  patent*  of  Edward  III.  inspecting  the  following  : — 

(1.)  Letters  patent  dated  20  March,  24  Edwartl  III.  [Monasticon.] 
(2.)  Letters  patent  dated  8  June,  27  Edward  III.  granting  to  them 

20  marks  yearly  rent  at  the  hands  of  the  weavers  of  London. 
(3.)  Letters  patent  dated  3  August,  27  Edward  III.  granting  to 

them  certain  messuages  and  lands   at   Estsmythefeld   and  la 

Tourhull,  London. 
(4.)  Letters  patent  dated  5  November,  30  Edward  III.  granting  to 

them  two  pipes  of  red  wine  yearly. 


*  The  ending  to  these  letters  is  omitted  on  the  roll. 


112 


CALENDAR  OF  PATENT  ROLLS. 


14gg_  Membrane  20 — cont. 

2.  Letters  patent  dated  3  May,  41  Edward  III.  granting  to  them  certain 
rents  and  the  advowsons  oi  tlie  churches  of  All  Hallows,  Stanenchirche, 
London,  and  St.  Bartholomew  the  Less,  London. 

For  33s.  4c?.  paid  in  the  hanaper. 

Oct.  20.        Inspeximus  and  confirmation  to  tlie  abbot  and  monks  of  Clive  of  letters 
Westminster,  patent  dated  8  November,  10  Richard  II.  inspecting  and  confirming  a 
charter  .dated  at  Westminster,  27  October,  14  Edward  II.  inspecting  and 
confirming  a  charter  dated  at  Hereford,  20  August,  12  Henry  III. 

For  5  marks  paid  in  the  hanaper. 


Membrane  19. 

July  8.  Whereas  Thomas  Littilton,  one  of  the  justices  of  the  Common  Bench, 
Westmiuster.  Thomas  Conyers,  esquire,  John  Watkyns  and  William  Foweler  were  lately 
enfeoffed  together  with  Robert  Conyers,  knight,  and  Thomas  More, 
deceased,  of  certain  lands  in  the  county  of  Buckingham  to  the  use  of 
Dame  Isabel  Shottesbrook  late  the  wife  of  John  Burton  the  younger,  late 
lord  of  Thornton,  co.  Buckingham,  that  they  might  found  a  chantry  in  the 
parish  church  of  Thornton ;  the  king  at  their  request  hereby  grants  licence 
to  Robert  Ingilton,  their  assign,  now  lord  of  the  manor  of  Thornton,  or 
his  heirs  or  assigns  to  found  a  perpetual  chantry  of  one  chaplain  to  celebrate 
divine  service  daily  in  the  said  church  for  the  good  estate  of  the  king,  his 
consort  Elizabeth,  queen  of  England,  George,  archbishop  of  York,  and  the 
said  Thomas,  Thomas,  John,  William  and  Robert  Ingilton,  and  for  their 
souls  after  death  and  the  souls  of  the  said  John  Barton  and  Isabel  and 
their  relatives,  friends  and  benefactors  and  Dame  Isabel  Blaket,  Robert 
Shotesbrook,  knight,  and  John  Barton  the  elder,  to  be  called  the  chantry 
of  St.  Mary  the  Virgin  in  the  said  church,  and  to  present  a  suitable  chaplain, 
at  each  voidance,  and  for  the  chaplain  to  acquire  from  the  said  Robert 
or  others,  lands  and  other  possessions,  not  held  in  chief,  to  the  value  of  20/. 
yearly,  in  mortmain,  for  the  sustenance  of  himself  and  six  poor  feeble 
persons  of  either  sex  and  the  relief  {refrigerium)  of  six  poor  boys  by  the 
grant  to  them  of  a  gown  apiece  yearly,  according  to  the  ordinance  of  Robert 
Ingilton  in  fulfilment  of  the  intention  of  the  said  Dame  Isabel. 

By  p.s.  and  for  50/.  paid  in  the  hanaper. 

Sept.  12.  Licence,  for  10/.  paid  in  the  hanaper,  for  the  king's  kinsman  John,  duke 
AVestminster.  of  Norfolk,  and  Elizabeth  his  Avife  to  grant  the  castle,  manor,  lordship  and 
borough  of  Chep>towe,  the  manor  of  Berton  and  the  manor  and  lordsliip  of 
Tudenham  with  members  and  appurtenances  in  the  marches  of  Wales 
adjoining  the  county  of  Gloucester,  held  in  chief,  to  the  king's  kinsman 
William,  earl  of  Pembroke,  and  his  heirs. 

Oct.  25.        Grant  to  Humphrey  Stafford,  lord  Stafford  of  Suthewyke,  king's  knight, 
Westminster,  of  the  office  of  steward  of  all  manors,  lands  and  possessions  of  William, 
late  lord  de  la  Zouche  and  Seymore,  in  the  counties  of  Wilts,  Somerset  and 
Devon  during  the  minority  of  John  his  sou  and  heir,  receiving  20/.  yearly 
from  the  issues  of  the  same.  By  p.s. 

Oct.  26.  Grant  for  life  to  John  Wode,  esquire,  master  of  the  king's  ordnance,  of 
Westminster,  the  office  of  the  custody  of  the  exchange  and  mint  within  the  Tower  of 
London  and  the  custody  of  the  coinages  of  gold  and  silver  within  the 
realm,  receiving  the  accustomed  wages  as  in  the  last  year  of  Edward  III. 
and  the  first  of  Richard  11.  from  the  issues  of  the  same  with  all  other 
profits  ;  in  lieu  of  a  like  grant  to  Thomas  Mongomery,  king's  knight,  by 
letters  patent  dated  15  December  {sic),  2  Edward  IV.  surrendered.    By  p.s. 


8  EDWARD  IV.— Part  II. 


113 


1468.       '  Membrane  18. 

J uly  9.  Whereas  the  king  on  22  January,  in  the  5th  year  of  his  reign,  by  letters 
Westminster,  patent  granted  licence  to  John  Boy  vile,  esquire,  to  found  a  perpetual  alms- 
house at  Stokefaston,  co.  Leicester,  but  the  latter  died  before  founding  it  and 
the  letters  are  accordingly  invalid  ;  the  king  hereby  at  the  supplication  of 
Henry  Sothill,  his  attorney,  and  William  Hopkyns,  parson  of  the  church 
of  Sothluffenham,  and  John  Boyvile,  executors  of  the  vi'ill  of  the  said  John, 
grants  licence  to  the  said  executors  and  their  assigns  to  lound  a  perpetual 
almshouse  of  three  poor  persons  at  Stokefaston  by  the  church  and  a 
perpetual  chantry  of  one  chaplain  to  celebrate  divine  service  and  prayers 
daily  in  the  church  for  the  good  estate  of  the  king  and  his  consort 
Elizabeth,  queen  of  England,  and  for  their  souls  after  death  and  the  soul 
of  the  said  John  Boyvile,  deceased,  and  his  relatives,  ancestors  and  bene- 
factors according  to  the  ordinance  of  the  said  Henry  Sothill  and  Anne  his 
wife,  one  of  the  daughters  and  heirs  of  the  said  John,  to  be  called 
the  chantry  of  the  Virgin  Mary  in  Stokefaston  church,  commonly  called 
'  Boyvilcs  Chaunterie,'  and  for  the  said  chaplain  to  acquire  in  mortmain 
lands  and  rents,  not  held  in  chief,  to  the  value  of  12/.  yearly  for  the 
sustenance  of  himself  and  the  said  poor  persons. 

By  p.s.  an<l  for  G/.  paid  in  the  hanaper. 

June  23.  Letters  of  denization  to  I'eter  Colman  alius  Miller,  born  in  the  parts  of 
Westminster.  Zclaud,  and  the  heirs  of  his  body. 

By  p.s.  and  for  6s.  8J.  paid  in  the  hanaper. 

June  1.  The  like  to  Falk  Aruoldcsson,  bcrn  in  the  parts  of  Holland,  and  the 
Westminster,  heirs  of  his  body.  By  p.s.  and  for  100a-.  paid  in  the  hanaper. 

Oct.  4.         Pardon  to  William  Hampton,  alderman  of  London,  one  of  the  customers 
Westminster,  of  the  petty  custom  in  the  port  of  London,  of  all  offences  committed  by 
him  and  all  actions,  suits  and  demands  against  him,  provided  that  this  shall 
not  extend  to  any  account  of  his  said  oQice.  By  p.s. 

Oct.  12.        Appointment  of  John  Cowper  as  deputy  and  lieutenant  of  John  Wenlok, 
Westminster,  knight,  lord  of  Wenlok,  chief  butler  of  England,  in  the  ports  of  Exmuth 
and  Bernestaple  and  ports  and  places  adjacent,  receiving  the  accustomed 
fees.  By  bill  of  the  chief  butler. 


Membrane  17. 

Nov.  1.  Grant  for  life  to  the  king's  kinsman  William,  earl  of  Pembroke,  of 
Westminster,  the  offices  of  master  forester  of  Snoudon  in  North  Wales,  constable  of 
the  castle  of  Counewey  in  North  Wales  and  captain  of  the  town  of  Conwey 
with  24  soldiers  for  the  safe-custody  of  the  town,  receiving  such  wages 
and  profits  as  Henry  Bolde,  knight,  liad  for  the  same  offices  and  46?.  daily 
for  the  wages  of  each  of  the  soldiers  from  the  issues  of  the  king's 
possessions  in  the  county  of  Merenneth  in  North  Wales.  By  p.s. 

Nov.  3.        Pardon,  for  5  marks  paid  in  the  hanaper,  to  William  Carant,  esquire, 
Westminster,  and  Katharine  late  the  wife  of  John  Beynton,  knight,  deceased,  tenant  in 
chief,  of  their  trespass  in  intermarrying  without  licence. 
May  9.         Pardon  to  the  king's  kinsman  John,  earl  of  Worcester,  and  Elizabeth 
Westminster,  late  the  wife  of  lloger  Corbet  of  Moreton,  knight,  tenant  in  chief,  of  their 
trespass  in  intermarrying  without  licence. 

By  K.  and  for  10  marks  paid  in  the  hanaper. 

May  lo.        Grant  for  life  to  the  king's  servant,  Richard  Ilarryson,  of  the  office  of 
Westminster,  being  one  of  the  four  messengers  of  the  Exchequer,  void  by  the  death  of 
lloger  Dorande,  receiving  wages  of  4^(Z.  daily  at  the  receipt  of  the 
Exchequer  with  a  robe  of  livery  such  as  the  yeomen  of  the  chamber  have 
yearly  at  Christmas  at  the  great  wardrobe.  By  p.s. 

y  96186.  " 


114 


CALEl^DAR  OF  PATENT  ROLLS. 


1468.  Membrane  17 — cont. 

Nov.  12.  Release  to  the  bailiiFs  and  burgesses  of  the  town  of  Bamburgh,  on 
Westminster,  account  of  the  losses  which  they  have  sustained  from  the  king's  enemies  of 
France  and  the  rebels,  who  held  the  town  and  castle  as  a  refuge  until  their 
reduction  to  the  king's  obedience,  of  all  arrears  of  the  fee  farm  of  the 
town,  extended  at  26  marks  yearly  ;  and  grant  that  for  eight  years  they 
may  hold  the  town  with  all  their  liberties,  privileges  and  franchises,  rendering 
to  the  king  4  marks  yearly  for  the  said  farm.  By  K. 

Nov.  15.        Grant  for  life  to  Master  John  Gunthorp,  warden  of  the  college  or  hall 
Westminster,  of  scholars  at  Cambridge  called  '  Kiugeshalle,'  of  8  marks  yearly  from 
Michaelmas,  7  Edward  IV.  from  the  issues  of  the  counties  of  Cambridge 
and  Huntingdon  for  two  robes,  one  with  fur  and  the  other  with  lining,  as 
the  wardens  of  the  college  had  in  the  time  of  Edward  III.  By  p.s. 

Mandate  in  pursuance  to  the  sheriff  of  Cambridge  and  Huntingdon. 

Nov.  17.  Grant  to  the  king's  kinsman  George,  archbishop  of  York,  and  his  heirs 
Westminster,  and  assigns  of  a  messuage  and  garden  in  the  town  of  Beverley  in  a  street 
called  *  Beksyde,'  late  of  Thomas  Evryugham,  knight,  and  in  the  king's 
hands  by  his  forfeiture  and  by  reason  of  an  act  in  Parliament  at 
Westminster,  4  November,  1  Edward  IV.  not  exceeding  the  value  of  20s. 
yearly,  to  hold  by  the  rents  and  services  that  they  were  held  by  before. 

ByK 

Nov.  18.  Grant  to  John  Snape  of  the  county  of  Devon  of  a  ship  called  le  Davy 
Westminster,  of  Saltcombe  with  anchors,  cables,  mast,  yard,  sail,  dinghey  and  gear, 
belonging  to  the  king  by  reason  of  the  outlawry  of  Thomas  Blower  late  of 
Exeter,  co.  Devon,  '  raarchant,'  at  the  suit  of  J  ohn  Shepward,  of  which  the 
said  Thomas  was  possessed  at  the  time  of  his  outlawry  together  with  the 
said  John  Snape  and  Eleanor  Ewen,  widow.  By  p.s. 

Nov.  14.  Pardon  to  the  king's  brother  George,  duke  of  Clarence,  of  all  debts, 
Westminster,  accounts  and  arrears  due  from  him  to  the  king.  By  K. 

Nov.  22.        General  pardon  to  George  Orell  alias  Oryll,  knight,  alias  late  of  York, 
Westminster,  esquire,  alias  late  of  Loudon,  '  gentilman,'  of  all  offences  committed  by  him 
before  20  November.  By  K. 


Membrane  16. 

Oct.  29.  Inspeximus  and  confirmation  to  John  Say,  knight,  now  tenant  of  the 
Westminster,  under- mentioned  manors,  and  his  heirs  and  assigns  of  a  charter  dated  at 
"Westminster,  9  February,  7  Henry  [IV.]  granting  to  John  Norbury,  esquire, 
licence  to  enclose  and  impark  800  acres  of  land  and  wood  adjoining  his 
manors  of  Bedewell  and  Little  Berkhamstede,  co.  Hertford,  and  free  warren 
in  his  demesne  lands  of  Esenden  and  Little  Berkhamstede.  [^Charter  Roll, 
6  and  7  Henry  IV.  No.  4.]  For  \  mark  paid  in  the  hanaper. 

Oct.  4.         Pardon  to  William  Duke  of  Excestre,  one  of  the  customers  and  collectors 
Westminster,  of  the  custom  and  subsidy  in  the  ports  of  Excestre  and  Dertmouth,  of  all 
offences  committed  by  him  and  all  actions,  suits  and  demands  againgt  him, 
provide  that  this  shall  not  extend  to  any  account  of  his  said  office. 

By  p.s. 

The  like  to  Thomas  Gale  of  Dertmouth,  one  of  the  customers  and  collectors 
of  the  custom  and  subsidy  in  the  said  ports.  By  p.s. 

Oct.  18.  Licence,  for  5  marks  paid  in  the  hanaper,  for  John,  bishop  of  Coventry 
Westminster,  and  Lichfield,  .John  Lamanva,  clerk,  and  Michael  Hals  to  grant  the  manor 
of  Hertelegh,  co.  Kent,  held  in  chief,  to  Joan  Bolton  for  life  with  successive 
remainders  to  William  Cressill  and  Joan  his  wife  and  the  heirs  of  her  body, 
the  heirs  of  the  body  of  John  Penhale,  deceased,  the  heirs  of  the  body  of 
Katharine  Trevry,  and  the  said  Michael  and  his  heirs. 


8  EDWARD  IV.— Pakt  II. 


115 


1468.  Membrane  16 — cont. 

Nov.  21.  Grant  to  the  king's  consort  Elizabeth,  queen  of  England,  and  her  assigns 
Westminster,  of  the  next  presentation  to  the  hospital  or  free  chapel  of  St.  Antony,  London. 

By  p.s. 

Nov.  26.  Grant,  during  ofiSce,  to  Simon  Dynyell,  chafe  -wax  in  the  Chancery,  of  2d. 
Westminster,  daily  from  the  issues  of  the  hanaper  from  28  August,  7  Edward  IV. 

By  p.s. 

Nov.  28.  General  pardon  to  John  Benette  of  Thorpeley,  co.  Chester,  *  taylour,' 
Westminster,  alias  *  husbondman '  of  all  offences  committed  by  him  before  27  November. 

By  p.s. 

Dec.  2.         Licence  for  the  prior  and  convent  of  the  monastery  of  Abbottesbury,  of 
Westminster,  the  order  of  St.  Benedict,  to  elect  an  abbot  in  the  place  of  William  Wuller, 
deceased. 

Nov.  30.  Grant  for  life  to  the  king's  kinsman  Ralph,  lord  of  Graystok,  knight,  in 
Westminster,  lieu  of  a  grant  to  him  and  the  heirs  male  of  his  body  by  other  letters 
patent,  surrendered,  of  the  manors  and  lordships  of  Storthwayte,  Garton  and 
Melburne,  co.  York,  with  their  members,  worth  60/.  yearly,  the  advowson 
or  i^atronage  of  the  priory  of  Kirkham,  co.  York,  worth  nothing,  and  the 
manor  of  Ravensthorpe,  with  a  toft  and  a  bovate  of  laud  in  Boltby,  co. 
York,  to  hold  without  impeachment  of  waste  and  without  rendering  any 
account.  By  p.s. 

Dec.  2.         Signification  to  R.  bishop  of  Salisbury  of  the  royal  assent  to  the  election 
Westminster,  of  William  Stant,  S.  T.  P.  monk  of  the  monastery  of  Abendon,  of  the  order 
of  St.  Benedict,  as  abbot  of  that  place.  By  p.s. 

Membrane  15. 

Oct.  3.        Pardon  to  John  '  Brampton,  citizen  and  *  stokfisshmonger  '  of  London, 
Westminster,  alias  one  of  the  collectors  of  the  petty  cu.stom  in  the  port  of  London,  of  all 
offences  committed  by  him  and  all  actions,  suits  and  demands  against  him, 
provided  that  this  shall  not  extend  to  any  account  of  his  said  office. 

By  p.s. 

Sept.  28.  Insjicximus  and  confirmation  to  the  burgesses  of  the  town  of  Beaumaris 
Westminster,  of  letters  patent  dated  5  December,  4  Henry  VI.  insjjecting  and  confirming 
letters  patent  of  Henry  V.  when  prince  of  Wales  dated  8  September, 
0  Henry  IV,  inspecting  and  confirming  letters  patent  dated  3  June, 
2  Richard  II.  inspecting  and  confirming  a  charter  dated  at  Waltham  lloly 
Cross,  26  January,  5  Edward  III.  {Charter  Roll,  5  Edward  III.  No.  88] 
inspecting  and  confirming  a  charter  dated  at  Berwick  on  Tweed,  15  Sep- 
tember, 24  Edward  I.  [Charter  Roll,  24  Edward  I.  No.  5]. 

For  206-.  paid  in  the  hanaper. 

Nov.  20.  Licence,  for  5  marks  paid  in  the  hanaper,  for  William  Dodesham  and 
Westminster.  Philip  Pynne  to  grant  the  manor  of  Codecombe  Mohun,  co.  Somerset,  held 
in  chief,  lo  Thomas  Malet,  esquire,  .loliu  Porter,  Tiiomas  Trcmayll, 
William  .Jacob,  John  Trowe,  Edward  Basyng,«John  iJroklianipton,  Walter 
Hayssheford,  clerk,  Robert  Phelpes,  clerk  ami  William  Ilarrycs  and  their 
heirs. 

Membrane  14. 

Nov.  24.        Pardon  to  .lohn  Huyste  late  of  London,  '  stokfyshmonger,'  and  Lucy  his 
Westminster,  ■wife  of  their  outlawry  and  waiver  in  the  county  of  Essex  for  not  appearing 
when  sued  with  John  Keore  lute  of  Aytroppc  Rodyng,  co.  Essex,  *yoman,' 
before  the  king  to  answer  Thomas  Grey  lor  having  conspired  with  Robert 

H  2 


116 


CALENDAR  OF  PATENT  ROLLS. 


1468. 


Dec.  1. 

Westminster. 


Dec.  9. 

Westminster. 


Dec.  7. 
Westminster. 

Dec.  9. 

Westminster. 


Dec.  7. 

Westminster. 


Dec.  13. 
Westminster. 


1469. 

Jan.  1. 
Dogmersfield. 


Membrane  14 — cont. 

Lamnan  late  of  Aytroppe  Rodyng,  '  yoman,'  John  Swan  late  of  Aytroppe 
Rodyng,  '  yoman,'  Robert  Lacche  of  Wytham,  co.  Essex,  '  yoman,'  and 
Bartholomew  Legge  late  of  Wodwatyr,  co.  Essex,  '  husbondman,'  and  Joan 
his  wife  at  Aytroppe  Rodyng  to  forge  and  publish  a  deed  concerning  lands 
of  the  said  Thomas  in  Aytroppe  Rodyng,  to  the  disturbance  of  his  title  ; 
they  having  surrendered  to  the  Marshaisea  prison,  as  John  Markham,  knight, 
chief  justice  of  the  King's  Bench,  has  certified. 

General  pardon  to  William  Fenys  of  Saye,  knight,  late  one  of  the 
commissioners  of  sewers  of  the  late  king  from  Colworth  to  Flegham  Brigge 
and  thence  to  the  sea  in  the  county  of  Sussex,  alias  heir  and  tenant  of  the 
lands  late  of  James  Fenys,  knight,  late  esquire,  alias  occupier  of  the  manor 
and  park  of  Lyndehurst  and  the  forest  and  hundred  of  Rudbrugge,  co.  South- 
ampton, alias  heir  and  tenant  of  the  lands  late  of  William  Wykeham,  late 
sheriff  of  Oxford  and  Berks,  alias  heir  and  tenant,  of  the  lands  late  of 
Emelina  late  lady  of  Say,  executrix  of  the  will  of  James  Fenys,  lord  of 
Say,  late  occupier  of  the  manor  of  Whitley,  co.  Surrey,  alias  the  other 
occupier  of  the  manor  of  Whitley,  alias  heir  and  tenant  of  the  lands  late 
of  James  Fenys,  late  esquire,  late  occupier  of  the  manor  called  Capell,  of  all 
offences  committed  by  him  and  all  debts,  accounts  and  arrears  due  to  the 
king.  By  p.s. 

Grant  for  life  to  Walter  Scull,  knight,  of  an  annuity  of  40Z.  from  Easter 
last  from  the  issues  of  the  counties  of  Kermerdyn  and  Cardigan  in  South 
Wales  at  the  hands  of  the  king's  chamberlain  of  South  Wales,  in  lieu  of 
a  grant  to  him  of  an  annuity  of  20/.  by  letters  patent,  surrendered. 

By  p.s. 

Mandate  in  pursuance  to  the  chamberlain  of  South  Wales. 

Licence  for  Richard  Carter  to  practise  the  art  of  alchemy  with  all  kinds 
of  metals  and  minerals  for  the  space  of  two  years  in  the  king's  manor  of 
Woodstock.    \^Fcedcra.']  By  K. 

Grant  for  life  to  the  king's  servant,  Hugh  Hernage,  of  the  household, 
esquire,  from  Michaelmas  last  of  the  manor  of  Wavonden  alias  Wavenden, 
CO.  Buckingham,  and  all  lands  in  Wavonden  not  exceeding  11.  yearly,  of 
which  Thomas,  late  earl  of  Devon,  attainted  of  high  treason  by  virtue  of 
an  act  of  Parliament  at  Westminster,  4  November,  1  Edward  IV.  was  seised. 

By  p.s. 

Grant,  during  minority,  to  Humphrey  Stafford  of  Suthwike,  king's 
knight,  of  the  custody  of  Marjory  Champernoun,  Margaret  Champernoun, 
Elizabeth  Champernoun,  Joan  Champernoun  and  Mary  Champernoun, 
daughters  and  heirs  of  Richard  Champernoun  of  the  county  of 
Cornwall,  tenant  in  chief  by  knight  service  as  of  the  king's  castle 
of  Launceston,  and  of  all  manors,  lands,  rents,  reversions  and  services  in 
the  king's  hands  by  his  death  and  by  reason  of  their  minority,  with  their 
wardship  and  marriage  without  disparagement,  and  so  from  heir  to  heir. 

By  p.s. 

General  pardon  to  William  Brette,  citizen  and  draper  of  London,  alias 
late  deputy  or  servant  of  William  Bertram,  searcher  in  the  port  of  London 
and  ports  and  places  adjacent,  of  all  oli'ences  committed  by  him  before 
8  December,  and  grant  to  him  of  full  power  of  impleading.  By  p.s. 

Vacated  because  elsewhere  below. 

Signification  to  R.  bishop  of  Salisbury  of  the  royal  assent  to  the  election 
of  Hugh  Dorchestyr,  monk  of  the  monastery  of  Abbottesbury,  of  the  order 
of  St.  Benedict,  as  abbot  of  that  place. 


8  EDWARD  IV.— Part  II. 


117 


1468. 

Nov.  11. 
Westminster. 

Nov.  15. 

Westminster. 


May  25. 

Westminster. 


Nov.  22. 
Westminster. 


Membrane  13. 

General  pardon  to  Thomas  Porthaleyn  late  of  London,  esquire,  alias 
*  gentilraan,'  alias  late  of  Istilworth.  By  p.s. 

Grant  to  John  Leynham  alias  Plommer  of  London,  knight,  of  all  goods, 
debts,  farms,  rents  and  arrears  lately  belonging  to  him  and  forfeited  to  the 
king.  By  p.s. 

Whereas  the  king's  servitors  Richard  Croft  the  younger  and  Thomas 
Croft  his  brother,  esquires,  by  letters  patent  dated  8  February,  4  Edward  IV. 
have  the  offices  of  parker  of  Wodestoke,  surveyor  and  controller  of  the  works 
of  the  manor  of  Wodestoke  and  gardener  of  Wodestoke,  with  fees  as  in  the 
time  of  Edward  III. ;  and  although  in  the  account  of  Roger  Elmerugge, 
late  farmer  and  keeper  of  the  manor,  wages  of  6d.  daily  were  allowed  for 
the  office  of  parker  and  2d.  daily  for  the  office  of  gardener  and  40.y.  yearly 
for  three  lodges  for  the  controller,  surveyor  and  parker  in  the  launds  in  the 
park,  nevertheless  at  other  times  4c?.  daily  and  Id.  daily  only  were  allowed 
for  the  offices  of  parker  and  gardener  and  the  said  40*.  yearly  not  at  all,  so 
that  they  have  received  nothing  beyond  5d.  daily  ;  the  king  hereby  grants 
to  them  for  life  the  sum  of  40*.  yearly  and  3d.  daily  by  the  name  of  a 
regard  from  Michaelmas,  6  Edward  IV.  from  the  issues  of  the  king's  lord- 
ship or  manor  of  Wodestoke,  Hanbourgh,  Wotton,  Stonesfeld  and  their 
members  in  the  county  of  Oxford  and  the  hundred  of  Wotton  iu  addition 
to  the  said  5d.  daily,  and  pardons  to  them  all  sums  of  money  thus  received 
by  them  from  George,  archbishop  of  York,  late  accountant  at  the  Exchequer, 
from  Michaelmas,  4  Edward  IV.  to  Michaelmas,  6  Edward  IV.        By  p.s. 

Pardon  to  Ralph  Dalton  of  Tamworth,  co.  Stafford,  '  yoman,'  and 
Robert  Swan  of  Faresley  or  Faseley,  co.  Stafford,  '  yoman,'  of  all  treasons 
and  felonies  of  which  they  are  indicted,  and  of  that  treason  of  whicli  they 
are  indicted  before  Richard  Byngham  and  Thomas  Ferrers,  knights,  two 
of  the  justices  of  the  peace  in  the  county  of  Warwick,  viz.  of  having 
counterfeited  200  groats  of  tin,  lead,  copper  and  p(!wter  in  the  likeness 
of  good  coin  on  10  June  last  at  Tanworth,  co.  Warwick,  and  uttered 
60  groats  at  Pollesworth,  co.  Warwick,  to  one  William  Shepey  on  20  June 


Dec.  7. 

Westminster. 

Nov.  28. 

Westminster. 


last. 


By  p.s. 


Pardon  to  the  king's  servant  Richard  Willy,  late  escheator  in  the  counties 
of  Kent  and  Middlesex,  of  all  debts,  accounts  and  arrears  due  from  him  to 
the  king  by  reason  of  his  office.  By  p.s. 

Inspeximus  and  confirmation  to  the  weavers  of  York  of  letters  patent 
dated  24  October,  20  Edward  III,  inspecting  and  confirming  a  charter  of 
Henry  [II.]  dated  at  Pichcringe.  For  20i.  paid  in  the  hanaper. 


Membhane  12. 

Dec.  4.  Grant  to  the  king's  kinsmen  Thomas,  cardinal,  archbishop  of  Canterbury, 
Westminster.  George,  archbishop  of  York,  Henry,  carl  of  Essex,  and  Henry  Stafford, 
knight,  and  John  Stafford,  knight,  sons  of  Humphrey,  late  duke  of 
Buckingham,  and  Walter  Klount,  knight,  lord  Mountjoye,  in  lieu  of  a  like 
grant  to  them  by  letters  patent  dated  8  September,  7  Edward  IV.  {see 
p.  34),  surrendered,  of  the  manors  there  specified,  late  of  William 
Beaumont,  knight,  late  viscount  Beaumont  and  lord  of  Bardolf,  to  hold  with 
knight's  fees,  advowsons,  wards,  marriages,  reliefs,  escheats,  courts,  views 
of  frank-pledge,  parks,  warrens,  fairs,  markets,  liberties,  franchises  and  all 
other  profits,  in  the  same  manner  as  he  held  them,  for  the  life  of  Joan  his 
wife  for  her  use,  with  all  issues  from  4  March,  1  Edward  IV,  with 
remainder  to  the  heirs  of  the  body  of  the  said  Joan.  By  p.s. 


118 


CALENDAR  OF  PATENT  ROLLS. 


1468.  Membrane  12 — cont. 

Dec.  9.  Grant  for  life  to  the  king's  servant  William  Aleyn,  one  of  the  yeomen  of 
AVestminster.  the  king's  chamber,  in  lieu  of  a  like  grant  to  him  of  the  custody  of  the 
manor  and  park  by  letters  patent  dated  23  November,  7  Edward  IV, 
surrendered,  of  the  office  of  keeper  of  the  houses  of  the  king's  manor  of 
Esthamstede,  co.  Berks,  and  the  new  park  there,  receiving  3c?.  daily  from 
the  fee-farm  of  the  town  of  New  Wyndesore  at  the  hands  of  the  bailiffs  or 
the  sheriffs  of  Oxford  and  Berks,  and  a  grove  called  '  Couwore '  and  4s. 
yearly  rent  pertaining  to  the  said  manor  and  all  other  fees  and  ^ofits 
pertaining  to  the  custody,  with  arrears  of  the  said  .Sc?.  daily  from  tlie  said 
23  November.  By  p.s. 

May  16.  Licence,  for  13  marks  paid  in  the  hanaper,  for  Thomas  Uvedale,  knight, 
Westminster,  John  Whitokesmede  and  Thomas  Bayly  to  grant  the  manor  of  Fakenham 
Aspes,  CO.  Suffolk,  held  in  chief,  to  Richard  West,  knight,  lord  le  Warre, 
and  Katharine  his  wife ;  and  for  these  to  grant  the  manor  to  Thomas 
Cobham,  knight,  and  Anne  his  wife  and  the  heirs  of  their  bodies,  with 
remainder  to  the  right  heirs  of  Thomas. , 


Membrane  11. 

Nov.  17.       Exemption  of  John  Coton,  esquire,  from  being  made  knight,  from  being 
Westminster,  put  on  assizes,  juries,  attaints  or  inquisitions  and  from  being  made  sheriff, 
escheator  or  collector  of  fifteenths,  taxes  or  subsidies  against  his  will. 

By  p.s. 

Nov.  22.       Grant  for  life  to  John  Ingoldesby  of  the  office  of  one  of  the  barons  of 
Westminster,  the  Exchequer,  when  such  shall  next  be  vacant,  with  all  accustomed  profits, 
the  office  of  chief  baron  excepted.  By  p.s. 

Nov.  22.        Licence  for  John  Bohun,  esquire,  son  and  heir  of  Humphrey  Bohnn, 
Westminster,  knight,  deceased,  tenant  in  chief,  who  is  of  full  age  and  whom  the  king  has 
personally  examined  and  approved,  to  enter  freely  into  all  his  manors,  lands 
and  other  possessions.  By  p.s. 

April  14.  Licence  for  the  alienation  in  mortmain  by  William  Canyngis,  merchant 
Westminster,  of  Bristol,  to  Thomas  Hankefot,  chaplain  of  the  chantry  founded  by  him 
at  the  altar  of  St.  George  in  the  parish  church  of  St.  Mary  Redcliff, 
Bristol,  in  full  satisfaction  of  a  licence  by  letters  patent  dated  13  October 
last,  of  a  yearly  rent  of  10/.  from  thirteen  messuages  and  two  tofts  of  his  in 
Bristol,  not  held  in  chief,  of  which  two  messuages  are  situated  in  a 
street  called  *  Templestrete  '  between  a  tenement  late  of  Lady  Lisle  on  the 
south  and  a  tenement  of  the  church  of  Holy  Cross  of  the  Temple  on  the 
north,  two  messuages  in  a  street  called  '  Redcliffstrete '  between  a  tenement 
of  Robert  Byde  on  the  one  part  and  a  tenement  of  St.  Mary,  Redcliff,  on 
the  other  part,  one  messuage  is  in  Redecliffstrete  aforesaid  between  two 
tenements  of  the  church  of  St.  Thomas,  Bristol,  one  messuage  in  a  street 
called  '  Brodemede '  between  a  tenement  of  William  Calewey  on  the  one 
part  and  a  tenement  of  the  abbot  of  St.  Augustine's,  Bristol,  on  the  other 
part,  two  messuages  are  in  the  said  street  between  a  tenement  of  \V alter 
Grymstede  on  the  one  part  and  a  tenement  of  William  Coder  late  of 
William  Joce  on  the  other  part,  one  messuage  is  on  the  quay  there  between 
a  tenement  of  John  Davy  of  Dursley  on  the  one  part  and  a  tenement  of 
William  Pavy  on  the  other  part,  four  messuages  are  on  the  said  quay  between 
a  tenement  late  of  Thomas  Rogers  on  the  one  part  and  a  tenement  of 
William  Borne,  esquire,  on  the  other  part,  one  messuage  called  '  a  masihous  ' 
is  on  the  said  quay  between  a  tenement  of  Elizabeth  Sharp,  widow,  on  the 
one  part  and  a  tenement  of  the  said  William  Pavy  on  the  other  part,  one 
messuage  in  a  street  there  called  '  le  Markette'  between  a  tenement  of 


8  EDWARD  IV.— Part  II. 


119 


1468.  Membrane  11 — cont. 

Hugh  Mille  on  the  one  part  and  a  tenement  of  John  Senangr  on  the  other 
part,  one  toft  in  Messhestrete  between  a  tenement  of  the  said  Elizabeth 
Sharp,  widow,  on  the  one  part  and  a  tenement  of  John  Dynt,  '  plompe- 
maker,'  on  the  other  part,  and  another  toft  iu  Mersshestrete  between  a 
tenement  of  John  Shipward,  '  marchaunt,'  on  the  one  part  and  a  common 
lane  leading  to  certain  gardens  there  on  the  other  part,  as  appears  by  an 
inquisition  taken  before  Robert  Jakes,  mayor  and  escheator  of  the  town  of 
Bristol, 


Membrane  10. 

Oct.  16.        Inspeximus  and  confirmation  to  Walter  Oudeby,  the  provost,  and  the 
Westminster,  chaplains   of  Coth,erstok   of  a  charter   dated    at    Walton,   24  June, 
12  Edward  III,  granting  to  the  then  provost  and  chaplains  divers  liberties. 
[Charter  Boll,  12  Edward  JIT.  No.  15.]   For  26s.  Sd.  paid  in  the  hanaper. 

July  9.         Licence  for  Robert  Kyrkeham,  the  dean,  and  the  canons  of  the  king's 
Westminster,  free  chapel  of  St.  Stephen  within  the  palace  of  Westminster  to  grant  an 
acre  and  a  half  of  land  in  Asshettesford,  co.  Kent,  parcel  of  their  foundation, 
to  Thomas  Wilmote,  vicar  of  the  church  of  Asshettesford,  in  frank  almoin. 

By  p.s. 

Nov.  6.  Pardon  to  John  Cotyn  of  the  parish  of  Launcell,  co.  Cornwall,  '  husbond- 
Westminster.  man,'  of  his  outlawry  in  that  county  for  not  appearing  before  the  justices 
of  the  Bench  to  satisfy  the  king  of  his  ransom  for  a  trespass  committed 
against  Nicholas  Hurdewyke  at  Netherbere  and  Blakewode ;  he  having 
surrendered  to  the  Flete  prison,  as  Robert  Danby,  chief  justice  of  tho 
Bench,  has  certified. 


Membrane  9. 

Nov.  20.        Licence  for  the  prior  and  convent  of  tho  monastery  of  Abandon,  of  the 
Westminster,  order  of  St.  Benedict,  in  the  diocese  of  Salisbury,  to  elect  an  abbot  in  tho 
place  of  William  Asshenden,  late  abbot,  resigned.  By  p.s. 

Nov.  24.  Grant  for  life  to  Henry  Mayrc  from  Etuster,  7  Edward  IV.  of  the 
Westminster.  5  marks  yearly  which  the  abbess  and  convent  of  Berkyng  render  to  the 
king  for  the  release  of  the  enclosure  or  palisade  of  467  perciies  of  the 
king's  park  of  Haveryng,  co.  Essex,  so  that  the  said  enclosure  bo  well  and 
sufficiently  repaired ;  in  lieu  of  a  like  grant  to  him  by  letters  patent  dated 
17  December,  1  Edward  IV.  surrendered  because  invalid  by  virtue  of  an 
act  in  Parliament  at  Westminster,  3  .fune,  7  Edward  IV.  and  because  he 
has  sustained  the  charge  of  the  enclosure  since  the  said  7  {sic)  December. 
Mandate  in  pursuance  to  tho  abbess  and  convent.  By  p.s. 

Nov.  29.  Licence  for  tho  alienation  in  mortmain  by  James  Metkalf  to  Henry 
Westminster.  Horryson,  chaplain  of  the  chantry  founded  by  him  in  the  church  or  chapel 
of  St.  Oswald,  Askryg,  co.  York,  of  two  messuages,  a  croft,  17  acres  of 
land  and  an  acre  of  meadow  in  Brumpton  on  Swale,  co.  York,  two  messuages, 
two  cottages,  fourteen  bovates  of  land  and  4  acres  of  meadow  in  Brumpton 
by  Alverton,  15  acres  of  land  in  Erythorne,  co.  York,  a  messuage,  a  toft,  a 
croft  and  17  acres  of  land  in  Fencotes,  co.  York,  two  bovates  of  land  in 
Exylby,  a  messuage  iu  Askeryg  and  15s.  rent  in  Rychemond,  co.  York, 
extended  at  60*.  Bd.  yearly,  as  appears  by  an  inquisition  taken  before  John 
Fitz  William,  late  escheator  -a  the  county,  to  the  value  of  5  marks  yearly 
in  part  satisfaction  of  a  licence  by  letters  patent  dated  4  May,  7  Edward  IV. 

Dec.  15.        Grant  for  life  to  Hugh  John,  knight,  for  his  good  service  to  the  king's 
Westminster,  father  and  tho  king,  that  ho  bo  one  of  the  king's  '  almoix  knights '  within 
the  college  of  St.  George  within  the  castle  of  Windsor,  receiving  all  the 


120 


CALENDAR  OF  PATENT  ROLLS. 


1468.  Membrane  9 — cont. 

accustomed  privileges  with  the  mansion  which  Thomas  Gray,  late  one  of 
the  knights,  had  with  a  garden  and  other  emoluments.         By  p.s.  [2698.] 

Dec.  9.         Grant  to  the  king's  clerk  John  Gunthorp,  king's  almoner,  in  augmenta- 
Westminster.  tion  of  the  king's  alms,  of  all  goods  and  chattels  of  felons  de  se  and  all 
deodands  within  the  realm,    [Foedei'a.]  By  K. 

1469. 

Jan.  23.  Appointment,  during  pleasure,  of  Thomas  Billyng,  one  of  the  justices  of 
Westminster,  the  King's  Bench,  as  chief  justice  of  the  King's  Bench.  By  K. 

1468.  Membrane  8. 

July  10.  By  an  inquisition  taken  on  12  April  last  in  the  Guildhall  in  the  parish  of 
Westminster.  St.  Laurence  in  Old  Jewry,  London,  in  the  ward  of  Chepe  before  Thomas 
Olgrave,  mayor  and  escheator  of  London,  it  was  found  that  William  Dere, 
late  citizen  of  London,  in  the  parish  of  St.  Augustine  in  the  ward  of 
Bradstrete,  London,  was  possessed  of  divers  jewels,  goods  and  sums  of 
money,  viz.  six  great  dishes  of  silver  called  '  chargeours,'  three  dozen  dishes 
of  silver  called  '  platers,' three  dozen  dishes  of  silver  called  '  potageours,' 
twelve  cups  of  silver-gilt  with  low  feet  and  a  cover  of  silver-gilt,  twelve 
cups  of  silver  with  the  middle  part  gilt  and  a  cover  of  silver,  twelve  cups 
of  silver  with  low  feet  and  a  cover  of  silver,  a  cup  called  '  a  grippes  eye ' 
garnished  with  silver-gilt,  a  high  standing  cup  of  silver-gilt  with  a  cover  of 
silver-gilt,  a  standing  maser  (nmrra)  l^ound  with  silver  gilt,  a  cup  called  '  a 
notte '  garnished  with  silver-gilt,  a  standing  cup  with  pinnacles  of  silver- 
gilt  and  '  enamyled '  (vermiculato)  in  red  with  a  cover  of  silver-gilt, 
six  cups  of  silver  with  chased  leaves  and  a  cover  of  silver,  six  cups  of  silver- 
gilt  and  a  cover  of  silver-gilt  with  a  pommel  enamelled  in  red,  six  cups 
of  silver  standing  '  wreythin '  (torculaf)  with  the  middle  part  gilt,  two 
standing  cups  of  silver-gilt  carved  with  leaves  called  '  hawethorn  leves,'  two 
wreathed  standing  cups  of  silver  with  the  middle  part  gilt,  two  standing  cups 
of  silver-gilt  chased  with  little  rose-leaves,  six  cups  of  silver  called  '  flat 
pecis,'  three  standing  saucers  {salsariis)  of  silver-gilt  with  covers  of  silver- 
gilt,  three  saucers  of  silver,  two  other  round  saucers  of  silver,  two  other  flat 
saucers  of  silver,  four  bowls  of  silver,  four  lavers  of  silver,  two  great  pots  of 
silver-gilt,  two  other  pots  of  silver  parcel  gilt  and  two  flat  pots  or  '  potell 
pottes '  of  silver  to  the  value  of  2,000/,  and  8,600/.  in  money  in  six  sealed  bags, 
and  by  a  writing  sealed  with  his  seal  dated  1  Mai'ch,  34  Henry  VI.  and  after- 
wards on  7  January,  35  Henry  VI.  acknowledged  before  Thomas  Camynges, 
then  mayor,  and  John  Walden,  then  alderman,  and  enrolled  in  the  court  of 
the  late  king  in  the  chamber  of  the  Guildhall  granted  the  above  to  John 
Broun  of  London,  '  gentilman,'  and  William  Melborn,  citizen  and  '  paynter ' 
of  London,  and  their  heirs  and  assigns  by  the  name  of  all  his  goods  and 
debts,  and  they  in  the  parish  of  St.  Dunstan  in  le  West  in  the  ward  of 
Earyngdon  Without,  London,  by  a  writing  sealed  with  their  seals  and 
enrolled  in  Chancery,  dated  1  April,  1  Edward  IV.  granted  the  same  to 
the  king,  and  on  6  December,  6  Edward  IV.  in  the  parisii  of  St.  Sepulchre 
in  the  ward  of  Faryngdon  Within,  London,  the  said  jewels  and  goods  and 
8,600/.  came  to  the  hands  of  Thomas  Bledlowe  of  London,  '  grocer,'  and  John 
Ryvers  of  London,  '  skynner,'  and  were  in  their  hands  at  the  time  of  the 
taking  of  the  inquisition,  and  the  said  William  Dere  in  his  lifetime  and  at 
his  death  on  4  February,  3  Edward  IV.  in  the  said  parish  of  St.  Augustine 
had  in  his  custody  of  the  delivery  of  .lolin  Milewater,  esquire,  divers  other 
jewels  and  goods  for  safe-keeping  for  the  king's  use,  viz.  a  great  precious 
jewel  called  '  a  feterlok '  of  gold  garnished  with  '  diamoimtes,'  '  peerlis,' 
great  rubies  and  '  saphires  '  and  other  precious  stones  in  great  number  to 
the  value  of  2,000/.,  a  coronal  of  gold  garnished  with  ten  great  '  baleys  '  and 


8  EDWARD  IV.—Part  II. 


121 


1468.  Membrane  8 — cont. 

22  great  '  peerlis  '  and  a  circlet  of  gold  garnished  with  divers  great  nihies  and 
'  peerlis  '  to  the  value  of  1 ,000  marks,  and  also  had  in  his  custody  divers  other 
jewels  and  goods,  viz.  a  cup  of  gold  enamelled  in  green  weighing  45^  ounces 
of  '  troy  vveyght,'  a  cup  of '  calcedoyne  '  garnished  with  gold, '  peerlis,'  rubies 
and  other  precious  stones,  weighing  40  ounces,  a  cup  of  gold  with  the 
words  '  humble  et  loyall '  carved  on  it,  weighing  38|  ounces,  a  tabernacle  of 
gold  with  an  image  of  St.  Mary  garnished  with  '  peerlis'  and  other  precious 
stones,  weighing  \9\  ounces,  a  golden  '  saltseler  '  {salinam)  and  a  golden 
brooch  (monile)  called  '  a  hert  of  gold'  weighing  two  ounces,  two  great  vessels 
of  silver-gilt  called '  flagons  '  weighing  9  pounds  and  3  ounces  of  troy  weight, 
a  laver  of  silver-gilt  weighing  five  pounds  and  one  ounce,  two  covered 
standing  cups  of  silver-gilt  weighing  4  pounds  and  10  ounces,  two  standing 
cups  with  covers  of  silver-gilt  weighing  4  pounds  and  4  ounces,  a  covered 
standing  cup  of  silver-gilt  weighing  2  pounds  2^  ounces,  a  covered  cup  of 
silver  weighing  1 5^  ounces,  two  covered  standing  cups  of  silver  parcel  gilt 
weighing  2  pounds  ll^ounces, a  covered  saucer  (.va/*a77M»t)  of  silver  parcel 
gilt  weighing  13|  ounces,  two  low  cups  of  silver  covered  and  chased,  a  stand- 
ing cup  of  silver,  a  cover  of  silver  with  a  pommel  of  silver-gilt  weighing  53  J 
ounces,  a  flat  cup  of  silver,  an  old  cup  of  chased  silver  weighing  20  ounces,  a 
golden  spoon  weighing  one  ounce,  a  laver  of  silver-gilt  weighing  17J  ounces 
and  '  a  botell '  (obbam)  of  silver  weighing  4  pounds  9^  ounces  to  the  value 
of  1,000/.  all  of  which  after  his  death,  viz.  on  the  said  6  December, 
6  Edward  IV.  came  into  the  hands  of  the  said  Thomas  Bledlowe  and  John 
Kyvers  by  their  finding  and  were  in  their  hands  at  the  time  of  the  inquisition, 
and  that  Henry,  late  dnke  of  Exeter,  attainted  of  high  treason  by  authority 
of  Parliament  at  Westminster,  4  November,  J  Edward  IV.  was  seised  on 
that  date  and  afterwards  in  the  said  parish  of  St.  Sepulchre  of  divers 
jewels  and  goods,  viz.  a  cup  of  pure  gold  garnished  with  '  peerlis,'  rubies,' 
'  balisis,'  '  satires,'  diamonds  and  other  precious  stones  to  the  value  of  1,000/. 
and  a  great  vase  of  silver  called  '  a  cawdron '  for  boiling  flesh  and  fish, 
wortli  100/.  which  came  into  their  hands  on  the  said  6  December  and  which 
belong  to  the  king,  and  that  Henry,  late  duke  of  Somerset,  attainted  as 
above,  was  seised  on  the  said  4  November  and  afterwards  in  the  said  parish 
of  divers  jewels  and  goods,  viz.  three  tablets  of  gold  garnished  with  '  rubyes,' 
*  balyes,'  great  '  dyamoundes,'  great  '  peerlys '  and  other  precious  stones,  a 
saucer  of  jasper  bound  with  pure  gold  and  garnished  with  rubies,  '  balies,' 
'  dyamoundys  '  and  great  pearls,  '  a  plowghman  '  (ai/ricola)  of  gold  garnished 
with  diamonds,  rubies  and  great  pearls,  'a  mylkwyf  {fcmina)  of  gold 
standing  in  a  park  garnished  with  '  peerlis,'  rubies  and  diamonds,  five  cups  of 
gold  some  wreathed  and  some  plain,  a  '  layer  '  of  gold,  two  images  of  silver-gilt 
two  great  bowls  of  silver-gilt,  two  great  '  spyceplatis '  of  silver-gilt  wreathed 
and  chased  with  flowers,  two  other  '  spyceplatis  '  of  silver  with  the  middle 
part  gilt  and  a  dozen  of  vases  of  silver  to  tiie  value  of  1,000/,  which  came 
into  their  hands  on  the  said  6  December  and  wiiich  belong  to  the  king. 
The  king  hereby  grants  to  the  said  Thomas  Bledlowe  all  jewels,  goods  and 
sums  of  money  late  of  the  said  William  Dere,  and  pardons  to  him  all  debts, 
accounts  and  actions  for  any  matter  concerning  the  premises.  By  p.s. 

.luly  19.       John  Ryvers  has  like  letters.  By  p,s. 

Wcatraluster, 

Membrane  7. 

Sept.  28.       hispeximus  and  confirmation  to  the  burgesses  of  the  town  of  Kaemarvan 
Westmiuster.  of  letters  [)atent  dated  10  November,  4  Henry  VI.  inspecting  and  con- 
firming letters  patent  of  Henry  V.  when  prince  of  Wales  dated  1  March, 

1  Henry  IV.  inspecting  and  confirming  letters  patent  dated  3  Juno, 

2  Richard  II.  inspecting  and  confirming  a  charter  dated  at  Waltham  Holy 


122 


CALENDAR  OF  PATENT  ROLLS. 


1468.  Membrane  7 — cont. 

Cross,  26  January,  5  Edward  III.  [Charter  Roll,  5  Edward  III.  No.  89], 
inspecting  and  confirming  a  charter  of  Edward  11.  when  prince  of  Wales 
dated  at  London,  25  May  34  EdAvard  I.  inspecting  and  confirming  a 
charter  dated  at  Flint,  8  September,  12  Edward  I.  [Charter  Roll,  12 
Edward  I,  No.  12.]  For  205.  paid  iu  the  hanaper, 

■Membrane  6. 

June  12,  Inspeximus  and  confirmation  to  the  mayor  and  burgesses  of  the  town  of 
Westminster.  Soutliampton  of  a  charter  dated  at  Westminster,  29  July,  23  Henry  VI. 

granting  and  confirming  to  them  divers  liberties.  [Charter  Roll,  21-24 
Henri/  VI.  No.  22.]  For  4  marks  paid  in  the  hanaper. 

Oct.  3.         General  pardon  to  John  Roger  of  London,  '  gentilman,'  one  of  the 
Westminster,  collectors  of  the  subsidy  of  tonnage  and  poundage  in  the  port  of  London, 
provided  that  this  shall  not  extend  to  any  account  of  his  office.         By  p.s. 

The  like  to  Thomas  Pounde,  one  of  the  customers  and  collectors  of  the 
custom  and  subsidy  in  the  port  of  Southampton.  By  p.s. 


Membrane  5. 


Dec.  3. 
Westminster, 


Dec.  8. 
Westminster. 

Dec.  12. 
Westminster. 


Dec.  13. 

Westminster. 


1469. 

Jan.  28. 
Westminster. 

1468. 

Oct.  27. 

Westminster. 


Nov.  1. 
Westminster. 


Licence  for  the  alienation  in  mortmain  by  Thomas  Warde,  clerk,  John 
Sudbury,  clerk,  and  Thomas  Gilby  to  Wilham  Rughton,  chaplain  of  the 
chantry  in  the  chapel  of  Holy  Trinity  and  All  Saints  in  the  parish  church  of 
St.  James,  Louth,  co.  Lincoln,  of  ten  messuages,  sixteen  cottages,  two  stalls, 
three  tofts,  200  acres  of  land,  20  acres  of  meadow,  46  acres  of  pasture  and 
27*.  of  rent  in  Louth,  Saltfleteby  and  Somercotes,  not  held  in  chief,  extended 
at  71.  I9s.  4d.  yearly,  as  appears  by  an  inquisition  taken  before  William 
Foljambe,  escheator  in  the  county  of  Lincoln,  in  full  satisfaction  of  a 
licence  by  letters  patent  dated  20  February,  5  Edward  IV. 

General  pardon  to  Elizabeth,  wife  of  the  king's  kinsman  John,  duke  of 
Norfolk,  of  all  offences  committed  by  her  before  7  December.  By  p.s. 

Protection  with  clause  volumus,  for  one  year,  for  Arnald  Nicholasson 
late  of  the  parish  of  St.  George,  Southwerk,  co.  Surrey,  'yoman,'  alias 
'  soudeour,'  alias  '  coryour,'  going  to  Ireland  on  the  king's  service  in  the 
company  of  the  king's  brother  George,  duke  of  Clarence,  lieutenant  of 
Ireland.  By  bill  of  p.s. 

General  pardon  to  William  Brette,  citizen  and  draper  of  London,  late 
deputy  or  servant  of  William  Berti'am,  searcher  in  the  port  of  London  and 
ports  and  places  adjacent,  of  all  offences  committed  by  him  before 
8  December,  and  grant  to  him  of  full  power  of  impleading.  By  p.s. 


General  pardon  to  Humphrey  Talbot,  knight. 


By  p.s. 


Membrane  4. 

Pardon  to  Richard  Haukes  of  Staunton,  co.  Gloucester,  clerk,  of  his 
outlawry  in  London  for  not  appearing  before  the  justices  of  the  Bench  to 
satisfy  John  Jurdan,  citizen  and  merchant  of  London,  of  45/.  6^.  8rf.  which 
the  latter  recovered  against  him  and  4  marks  damages ;  he  having 
surrendered  to  the  Flete  prison  and  satisfied  the  said  John,  as  Robert 
Danby,  chief  justice  of  the  Bench,  has  certified. 

Grant  to  John  Ingram,  canon,  of  the  priory  of  Penmon  and  Prestholme 
alias  Evys  Llannoc  in  North  Wales,  in  the  diocese  of  Bangor,  void  by  the 
death  of  William  Ardescote,  last  prior.  By  p.s. 


8  EDWARD  IV.— Part  II. 


123 


1468. 
Oct.  29. 
Westminster. 


Nov.  14. 
Westminster. 


Nov.  17. 
Westminster. 


Nov.  2o. 
Westminster. 


Dec.  5. 
Westminster. 


Dec.  7. 
Westminster. 


Dec.  8. 
Westminster. 


Nov.  12. 

Westminster, 


Membrane  \—cont. 

Inspeximus  and  confirmation  to  John  Say,  knight,  present  tenant  of  the 
under-mentioned  manors,  and  his  heirs  and  assigns  of  a  charter  dated  at 
Windsor,  22  Januaiy,  37  Henry  III.  granting  to  Richard  de  Boxe  and  his 
heirs  free  warren  in  all  their  demesne  lands  of  the  manors  of  Boxe  and 
Hodesdon,  co.  Hertford,  and  a  market  weekly  on  Thursdays  at  the  said 
manor  of  Hodesdon  and  a  fair  there  yearly  on  the  vigil,  the  day  and  the 
morrow  of  St.  Martin.  Witnesses  : — Ralph  son  of  Nicholas,  John  Mansell, 
provost  of  Beverley,  Master  William  de  Kilkenny,  archdeacon  of  Coventry, 
Bertram  de  Crioill,  John  de  Lessinton,  John  de  Grey,  Robert  Walerand, 
Robert  Ic  Norrcys,  William  de  Grey,  William  Gernun,  Roger  de  Lokintoa 
and  others.  For  40s.  paid  in  the  hanaper. 

Grant  to  the  king's  servitor  Henry  Ferrers,  esquire,  and  Margaret  his 
wife  and  the  heirs  of  their  bodies,  in  lieu  of  a  grant  to  the  said  Henry  and 
his  assigns  by  letters  patent  dated  5  Augu.st,  7  Edward  IV.  surrendered,  of 
the  manor  of  Hamyldon,  co.  Rutland,  with  knights'  fees,  courts  leet,  views 
of  frankpledge,  liberties,  franchises,  profits  and  commodities,  to  hold  by 
the  services  of  as  many  knights'  fees  and  as  many  other  rents  and  services 
as  it  was  held  by  before  4  March,  1  Edward  IV.  By  p.a. 

Pardon  to  John  Pomery,  the  abbot,  and  the  convent  of  the  monastery  of 
St.  Mary  de  Pre,  Leicester,  of  their  trespass  in  acquiring  in  mortmain 
from  John  Walton,  clerk,  and  William  Catte,  clerk,  two  tofts,  five  virgates 
of  land  and  10  acres  of  meadow  in  Inguerdby,  co.  Leicester,  without  licence. 

By  p.s.  and  for  4/.  paid  in  the  hanaper. 

Licence  for  the  acquisition  in  mortmain  by  Homy  Borman,  the  master, 
and  the  brethren  of  the  almshouse  of  S.S.  John  Baptist  and  John  Evangelist, 
Shirbourae,  and  their  successors  of  lands,  rents  and  other  possessions  held 
in  socage  or  burgage  to  the  value  of  13/.  yearly. 

By  p.s.  and  for  261.  paid  in  the  hanaper. 

Licence  for  Ralph  Fit/,  Henry  and  his  heirs  to  repair  and  complete  a 
fortalice  or  tower  of  the  king  called  '  lo  Newerko  '  within  the  town  of 
Cragfergus  in  Ireland,  begun  of  old  for  defence  against  the  rebels  but  now 
unfinished  and  ruinous,  and  grant  to  him  and  his  heirs  of  the  said  fortalice 
or  tower  with  a  garden  annexed  and  other  appurtenances  to  hold  by  fealty 
only  without  rendering  any  account.  By  p.s. 

Grant  to  Alice  late  the  wife  of  Richard  Stores  late  of  London,  skinner, 
of  all  the  goods  lato  of  the  said  Richard,  who  was  convicted  of  the  crimo 
of  treason  or  lese  majesto  before  the  constable  of  England  and  sentenced 
to  death.  By  K. 

Mandate  to  the  cschcator  in  the  counties  of  Bedford  and  Buckingham  for 
the  restitution  of  the  temporalities  of  the  abbey  of  Abendon  to  John  Saut, 
professor  of  tho  sacred  page,  monk  of  that  place,  of, the  order  of  St.  Benedict, 
whose  election  as  abbot  11.  bishop  of  Salisbury  has  confirmed  and  whoso 
fealty  the  king  has  taken.  By  p.s. 

Tho  like  to  the  escheators  in  tho  following  counties  :— 
Gloucester  and  the  marches  of  Wales  adjacent. 
Middlesex. 
Oxford  and  Berks. 
Writ  de  intendendo  in  pursuance  to  the  tenants. 

Grant  to  the  king's  servitor  Richard  Fowler  of  tho  custody  of  all  lands, 
rents,  reversions  and  services  with  knights'  fees,  courts,  issues,  profits  and 
emoluments  lato  of  Walter  Brightwell  or  Alice  Chapman  late  his  wife,  to 
hold  from  tbfl  death  of  the  said  Alice  during  tho  minority  of  Nicholas  their 


124 


CALENDAR  OF  PATENT  BOLLS. 


1468.  Membrane  4 — cont. 

son  and  heir,  rendering  to  the  king  an  amount  to  be  agreed  upon  with  the 
treasurer  of  England  before  Easter  next  and  supporting  the  houses, 
enclosures  and  edifices  of  the  premises.  By  p.s. 


Membrane  3. 


Dec.  7. 

Westminster. 


Nov.  21. 

Westminster. 


1469. 

Jan.  28. 
Westminster. 


Grant  to  the  king's  knight  Humphrey  Stafford  of  Southwyke  and  the 
heirs  of  his  body,  in  lieu  of  a  like  grant  to  him  and  the  heirs  male  of  his 
body  by  letters  patent  dated  23  April,  7  Edward  IV.  {see  p.  22),  surrendered, 
of  all  the  manors  and  other  possessions  there  specified;  and  grant  to  him 
also  of  the  custodies  and  marriages  there  specified.  By  p.s. 

Grant  to  the  king's  servant  Edmund  Hawte,  esquire,  and  his  assigns  of 
the  custody  of  all  lordships,  manors,  lands,  rents  and  possessions  with 
knights'  fees,  advowsons,  courts  leet,  views  of  frank-pledge,  fairs,  markets, 
privileges  and  franchises  late  of  Edmund  Blount,  '  gentilman,'  during  the 
minority  of  Simon  Blount  his  son  and  heir  with  the  marriage  of  the  heir 
without  disparagement,  and  so  from  heir  to  heir  during  minority. 

By  p.s. 

Confirmation  to  the  people  and  commonalty  of  the  island  of  Jeresey  of 
letters  patent  dated  8  July,  18  Richard  II.  granting  that  they  shall  be 
quit  of  all  tolls,  exactions  and  customs  in  all  cities,  towns,  markets  and  ports 
within  the  realm  of  England  in  the  same  manner  as  the  king's  subjects  of 
that  realm ;  and  grant  to  them  in  addition,  in  consideration  of  the  perils 
they  have  sustained  for  the  safety  of  the  island  and  the  reduction  of  the 
king's  castle  of  Mount  Orgill,  that  they  shall  be  as  quit  in  all  cities,  boroughs, 
market  towns  and  other  towns,  ports  and  places  within  the  realm  of  England 
and  all  lands  and  islands  of  the  king  of  all  tolls,  customs,  subsidies,  pontages, 
pavages,  murages,  carriages,  fossagesand  other  moneys  payable  to  the  king, 
as  they  or  their  predecessors  ever  were.  By  p.s. 


Membrane  2. 

Jan.  1.  Grant  for  life  to  the  king's  servitor  Edmund  Glace,  esquire,  one  of  the 
Dogmersfield.  king's  Serjeants  at  arms,  of  the  office  of  one  of  the  king's  Serjeants  at  arms 
with  wages  of  12rf.  daily  from  Michaelmas  last  from  the  fee  farm  of  the 
town  of  Kyngeston  on  Thames,  co.  Surrey,  and  the  increment  of  the  same 
and  certain  other  farms  and  issues  of  the  town  at  the  hands  of  the  bailiffs  of 
the  town  or  the  sheriff  of  Surrey  and  Sussex.  By  p.s. 

Mandate  in  pursuance  to  the  said  sheriff  and  bailiffs. 

1468. 

Dec.  30.        Pardon  to  Henry  Radclyff,  esquire,  and  Isabel  his  wife,  one  of  the 
Dogmersfield.  daughters  and  heirs  of  Thomas  Fulthorp,  esquire,  tenant  in  chief  by  knight 
service,  of  their  trespass  in  intermarrying  without  licence  and  all  penalties 
and  forfeitures  and  the  values  of  the  marriage  and  the  double  value  of  the 
marriage.  By  p.s. 

Grant  to  Laurence,  bishop  of  Durham,  and  his  executors  or  assigns,  of  the 
custody  of  all  lands,  rents,  services  and  possessions  late  of  Thomas 
Fulthorp,  esquire,  deceased,  tenant  in  chief  by  knight  service,  during  the 
minority  of  Isabel  and  Philippa  his  daughters,  aud  the  custody  and 
marriage  of  the  said  Isabel  and  Philippa  without  disparagement,  without 
rendering  anything  to  the  king.  By  p.s. 

1469. 

Jan.  13.  Appointment  for  life  of  the  king's  servant  Thomas  Vaghan,  one  of  the 
Dogmersfield.  esquires  of  the  body  and  treasurer  of  the  king's  chamber,  as  controller  and 


8  EDWARD  IV.— Pakt  II. 


125 


1469. 


Jan.  23. 
Westminster. 


1468. 

Dec.  10. 
Westminster. 


Nov,  18. 
Westminster. 

14.69. 

Feb.  4. 
Westminster. 


Feb.  3. 
Westminster. 


Feb.  8. 

Westminster. 


1468. 

Dec.  3. 
Westminster. 


Membrane  2 — cont. 

surveyor  of  the  hanaper  of  Chancery  and  the  office  of  clerk  or  keeper  of  the 
hanaper,  receiving  such  fees  as  may  be  agreed  upon  between  him  and  the 
king  before  Midsummer  next  at  the  receipt  of  the  Exchequer.  By  K. 

Grant  to  Thomas  Wyngefelde,  esquire,  and  Philippa  his  wife,  late  the 
wife  of  Thomas,  lord  of  Roos,  of  the  manors  of  Ufiyngton,  Wragby  and 
Esteryngton,  co.  Lincoln,  the  manors  of  Orston,  Warsop  and  Ekeryng,  with 
the  advowsons  of  the  churches  of  Worsop  and  Ekeryng,  co.  Nottingham,  the 
manor  of  Seton  and  a  yearly  rent  of  20/.  from  the  priory  of  Wartre  from 
lauds  in  Wartre,  co.  York,  the  manor  of  Adderley  extending  into  Speneley 
with  the  advowson  of  the  church  of  Adderley,  co.  Salop,  and  the  manor  of 
Estbourne,  co.  Sussex,  late  of  the  said  Thomas  and  in  the  king's  hands  by 
reason  of  an  act  of  forfeiture  in  Parliament  at  Westminster,  4  November, 
1  Edward  IV.  and  certain  inquisitions  taken  before  the  escheators  in  the  said 
counties,  to  hold  with  knights'  fees,  advowsons,  courts  leet,  views  of  frank- 
pledge, liberties,  franchises,  warrens  and  all  other  profits  for  the  life  of  the 
said  Philippa  by  the  services  of  as  many  knights'  fees  and  as  many  other 
rents  and  services  as  they  were  held  by  before  the  first  day  of  March, 
1  Edward  IV  ;  and  grant  to  them  of  all  rents  aud  profits  of  the  above  from 
4  March,  1  Edward  IV.  By  p.s. 

Grant  for  life  to  the  king's  servants  William  Thnrlby,  'gentilman  '  cook 
of  the  queen,  and  William  Spenne,  yeoman  of  the  pantry,  of  a  plot  of  soil  of 
the  length  of  8  perches  and  the  breadtli  of  G  jjerches  at  the  north  end  and 
4  perches  at  the  south  end  lying  by  the  highway  at  Westsmythfeld,  co. 
Middlesex,  adjoining  the  house  of  one  John  Miles  on  the  north,  forfeited  iu 
the  time  of  Edward  III,  and  in  the  king's  hands  by  way  of  escheat,  as 
appears  by  inquisition,  to  hold  in  the  same  manner  as  William  Langford 
held  it,  rendering  lOd.  yearly  at  the  Exchequer  as  he  did.  By  p.s. 

Grant  to  John  Davyson,  king's  clerk,  and  his  assigns  of  the  next 
presentation  to  the  church  of  Sendirka.se  in  the  parts  of  Picardy. 

Mandate  to  the  eseheator  in  the  counties  of  Somerset  and  Dorset  for  the 
restitution  of  the  temporalities  of  the  abbey  of  Abbottesbury,  of  the  order  of 
St.  Benedict,  to  Hugh  Dorchestre,  monk  of  the  liouse,  whose  election  as 
abbot  R.  bishop  of  Salisbury  has  confirmed  and  whose  fealty  the  king  has 
taken. 

The  like  to  the  eseheator  in  the  county  of  Wilts. 
Writ  de  intendendo  iu  pursuance  to  the  tenants. 

Presentation  of  Thomas  Avenell,  priest,  to  the  parish  church  of  Pyi)lyng 
in  the  marches  of  Calais,  in  the  diocese  of  Terouanne,  of  the  province  of 
Canterbury,  void  by  the  resignation  of  Simon  Beryton,  last  parson.  The 
lettei'^  are  directed  to  Thomas,  cardinal  priest  of  the  cluirch  of  St.  Cyriac 
in  the  Baths,  in  the  holy  Roman  church,  archbishop  of  Canterbury,  primate 
of  All  England  and  legate  of  the  apostolic  see. 

General  pardon  to  John  White  of  Farnhnm,  co.  Surrey,  merchant,  of  all 
oflences  committed  by  him  before  3  Fobruaiy  last  and  all  consequent 
forfeitures.  By  p.s. 

Membrane  1. 

Licence  for  James  Goldewell,  king's  clork,  doctor  of  laws,  the  king's 
proctor  in  the  court  of  Rome,  to  accept  any  bishoj)ric  that  may  become 
vacant  within  the  realm  of  England  by  provision  of  the  l)ope,  the  arch- 
bishoprics of  Canterbury  and  York  and  the  bishoxjrics  of  Winchester  and 
Lincoln  excepted.  By  K. 


126 


CALENDAR  OP  PATENT  ROLLS. 


1468. 


Dec.  6 
Westminster. 


Dec.  2. 
Westminster. 


Dec.  12. 
Westminster. 


1469. 

Jan.  28. 
Westminster. 

Feb.  13. 

Westminster. 


1468. 

Jnne  11. 
Westminster. 


June.  8. 

Westminster. 


Monbrane  1 — cont. 

Vacated  by  surrender  and  cancelled,  because  the  king  granted  other 
letters  patent  on  12  December. 

General  pardon  to  John  Walsale  alias  Walshale  alias  Walshawe  of 
London,  '  draper,'  of  all  offences  committed  by  liira  before  29  November 
last ;  and  grant  to  him  of  debts,  goods  and  chattels  forfeited  by  him  in 
consequence  and  of  power  of  impleading.  By  p.s. 

Whereas  John  Nasshe,  deceased,  not  only  lent  to  the  king  the  sum  of 
100/.  but  also  granted  to  him  the  sum  of  20/.  and  the  king  assigned  to  him 
100/.  by  a  tally  levied  at  the  receipt  of  the  Exchequer  on  14  December, 
5  Edward  IV,  to  be  received  from  the  customs  and  subsidies  in  the  port  of 
Sandwich,  of  which  neither  he  in  his  lifetime  nor  Mar-jory  his  wife  and 
William  Lincoln,  the  executors  of  his  will,  after  his  death  have  received 
any  payment ;  the  king  hereby  grants  to  the  said  Marjory  and  William  in 
lieu  of  the  said  tally,  surrendered,  that  they  or  their  executors  or  assigns 
may  ship  woollen  cloths,  sacks  and  bales  of  wool,  wool -fells  and  other 
merchandise  quit  of  customs  and  subsidies  to  the  sum  of  100/.  in  any  galleys, 
carracks,  ships  or  vessels  in  any  port  or  ports  of  the  realm  and  take  the 
wools,  wool-fells  and  merchandise  of  the  staple  of  Calais  to  foreign  parts  by 
the  straits  of  Marrack  and  the  woollen  cloths  and  other  merchandise  to  any 
foreign  parts.  By  p.s. 

liicence  for  James  Goldwell,  doctor  of  laws,  the  king's  proctor  in  the 
court  of  Rome,  to  accept  any  bishopric  that  may  become  vacant  within  the 
realm  of  England  by  provision  of  the  pope,  the  archbishoprics  of  Canterbury 
and  York  and  the  bishoprics  of  Winchester  and  Norwich  excepted  ;  in  lieu 
of  a  licence  to  him  by  letters  patent  dated  3  December,  surrendered. 

IFoedera.']  By  K. 

Pardon  to  John  Pelly,  late  escheator  in  the  counties  of  Norfolk  and 
Suffolk,  of  all  offences  committed  by  him  and  all  fines,  amercements,  issues, 
debts  and  accounts  due  to  the  king.  By  p.s. 

General  pardon  to  Peter  Martyn  or  Martine  of  Portesmouth,  co. 
Southampton,  '  maryner,'  of  all  offences  committed  by  him  before  16 
January  last  and  all  consequent  impeachments  and  forfeitures  of  his  goods. 

By  p.s. 

Membrane  23d. 

Commission  to  William  Stourton  of  Stourton,  knight,  Humphrey 
Stafford  of  Suthwike,  knight,  Roger  Tocotes,  George  Darell,  knight,  John 
Sydenham,  John  Whitokkesmede,  William  Brownynge,  Stephen  Preston, 
John  Bourn  and  the  sheriff  of  Dorset  to  enquire  what  lands  James,  late 
earl  of  Wiltshire,  attainted  of  high  treason  by  virtue  of  an  act  in 
Parliament  at  Westminster,  4  November,  1  Edward  IV.  held  in  the 
county  of  Dorset  on  4  March,  1  Edward  IV. 

The  like  to  Edmund  Brudenell,  Robert  Ingleton,  Thomas  Hampden  of 
Hampden,  Thomas  Rokes  and  John  Stokes  to  enquire  what  lands  Robert 
Whityngham,  knight,  attainted  as  above,  held  in  the  counties  of  Hertford 


and  Buckingham  on  4  March, 
Henry  VI. 


1  Edward  IV.   or   30  December,  39 


Membrane  22d. 

Aug.  3.        Commission  of  oyer  and  terminer  to  the  king's  brothers  George,  duke  of 
Westminster.  Clarence,  and  Richard,  duke  of  Gloucester,  the  king's  kinsman  Richard, 
earl  of  Warwick  ,ind  Salisbury,  and  Richard,  earl  of  Ryvers,  and  Anthony 
Widevile  of  Scales,  knight,  John  Audeley  of  Audeley,  knight,  William 


8  EDWARD  IV.— Part  II.  127 


1468.  Membrane  22d — cont. 

Hastynges  of  Hastynges,  knight,  Walter  Devereux  of  Ferrers,  knight, 
William  Herbert  of  Herbert  knight,  Humphrey  Stafford  of  Siithwyk, 
knight,  John  Markham,  knight,  Robert  Danby,  knight,  William  Yelverton, 
knight,  Richard  Byngham,  knight,  Thomas  Billyng,  William  Laken,  Waller 
Moilc,  knight,  John  Nedeham,  knight,  Richard  Chok,  knight,  Thomas 
Littilton,  Thomas  Yong,  Thomas  Calwodeley,  mayor  of  Exeter,  William  Not- 
yngham  and  Thomas  Dowerissh  in  the  counties  of  Devon  and  Gloucester. 

By  K. 

Membrane  2ld. 

Oct.  9.  Commission  to  William  Hasty nges  of  Hastyngez,  knight,  John  Bourgchier 
Westminster,  of  Berners,  knight,  Walter  Devereux  of  Ferrers,  knight,  John  Culpepir, 

knight,  and  Brymston  to  take  muster  at  Gravesende  of  the  king's 

knight  Anthony  Wydevyle  of  Scales  and  Nucelles  and  the  king's  soldiers  in 
his  company  whom  the  king  has  ordered  to  be  sent  to  foreign  parts,  and 
to  certify  to  the  king  and  council.  By  K. 

The  like  to  John  Fogge,  knight,  John  Scotte,  knight,  William  Haute, 
knight,  and  the  sheriff  of  Kent  to  take  muster  as  above  at  Sandwich.  By  K. 

Sept.  28.       Commission  to  Thomas  Wryxham  and  Thomas  Brasyngton  to  take  horses, 
Westminster,  carts,  waggons,  smiths  and  carpenters  called  '  cartwrightez '  and  '  whcle- 
wrightez,'  carters  and  other  workmen  and  labourers  for  the  conduct  of 
certain  ordnance  of  tlie  king  to  Chester  or  any  other  expedient  port  for 
transmission  to  Ireland.  By  K. 

Membrane  18  J. 

July  12.  Commission  to  Richard  Forstcr,  keeper,  surveyor  and  approver  of  all 
Westminster,  swaus  of  the  king's  mere  called  Wytlesmere  and  any  other  mere  or  water 
in  the  counties  of  Huntingdon,  Cambridge,  Lincoln  and  Northampton, 
Richard  Wclby,  John  Elryngton,  Tiiomas  Kyme,  Simon  Burton,  Robert 
Bokkyng,  .John  Wychecote,  John  Trunkc  and  William  Calowe  to  enquire 
into  the  taking  of  swans  and  cygnets  with  liooks,  nets,  limed  strings  and 
other  engines  and  the  theft  of  swans'  eggs  in  the  said  places. 

Membrane  \4d. 

Nov,  28.  Commission  of  oyer  and  terminer  to  the  king's  brother  George,  duke  of 
Westminster.  Clarence,  the  king's  kinsmen  Henry,  earl  of  Essex,  and  Richard,  earl  of 
Ryvers,  and  William  Bourgchier,  knight,  Anthony  Widevile  of  Scales, 
knight,  John  Dynham  of  Dynham,  knight,  Thomas  Bourgchier,  knight, 
John  Markham,  knight,  Robert  Danby,  knight,  William  Yelverton,  knight, 
Richard  Byngham,  knight,  Thomas  Billyng,  William  Laken,  Walter  Moile, 
knight,  Richard  Chok,  knight,  John  Nedeham,  knight,  Thomas  Littelton 
and  Thomas  Yong  in  the  county  of  Essex.  By  K. 

Nov.  17.  Commission  to  John  Orchard,  William  Iluttysfcld,  Riciiard  Hals  and 
Westminster.  John  ProU  to  enquire  into  the  petition  of  William  Courtenay,  knight,  that 
whereas  Hugh  de  Courtenay,  late  earl  of  Devon,  was  seised  of  the  manor  of 
Northpole,  co.  Devon,  in  his  demesne  as  of  fee  and  granted  it  to  one 
Philip  Courtenay,  knight,  and  the  heirs  male  of  his  body  and  the  latter  was 
accordingly  seised  of  it  in  his  demesne  as  of  fee  tail  in  time  of  peace  in  time 
of  Richard  11.  and  received  the  esplees  thereof  and  demised  it  to  one  Roger 
Markedon  for  life,  and  the  said  Roger  was  seised  of  it  until  he  was  unjustly 
disseised  by  Edward  Courtenay,  late  earl  of  Devon,  who  had  issue  Thomas, 
late  carl  of  Devon,  who  entered  into  the  manor  on  the  death  of  the  said 
Edward  and  enfeoffed  one  John  Odeland,  clerk,  and  his  heirs  of  it  to  the 


128 


CALENDAR  OF  PATENT  ROLLS. 


1z(j68.  Membrane  14c? — cont. 

use  of  the  eavl  and  his  heirs  and  afterwards  had  issue  Thomas,  last  earl  of 
Devon,  and  died,  the  said  John  Odelaud  being  then  seised  of  the  manor,  and 
the  said  last  earl  died  at  York  on  31  March,  1  Edward  IV.  the  said  John 
Odeland  being  then  seised  of  the  manor,  and  the  said  Philip  Courtenay 
died  and  after  his  death  the  right  of  the  manor  descended  to  John 
Courtenay  his  son  and  heir  and  from  him  to  Philip  Courtenay  his  son  and 
heir  and  from  him  to  the  said  petitioner  as  his  son  and  heir,  afterwards  on 
22  September,  4  Edward  IV.  it  was  found  by  an  inquisition  taken  at 
Chylmelegh,  co.  Devon,  before  Thomas  Gylle  the  younger,  then  escheator  in 
the  county,  by  virtue  of  his  office  that  Thomas  Courtenay,  late  earl  of 
Devon,  was  seised  in  his  demesne  as  of  fee  of  the  said  manor  and  enfeoffed 
John  Odeland,  clerk,  and  others  deceased  at  the  time  of  the  inquisition  of  it 
to  the  use  of  himself  and  his  heirs  and  they  were  seised  of  it,  and  after  his 
death  Thomas,  last  earl  of  Devon,  his  son  entered  into  their  possession  with 
their  consent  and  received  the  profits  from  the  death  of  his  father  until  his 
own  death  on  31  March,  1  Edward  IV.  and  the  said  last  earl  was  attainted 
of  high  treason  in  Parliament  at  Westminster,  4  November,  1  Edward  IV.  as 
appears  in  the  said  inquisition  returned  into  the  Exchequer  on  19  October, 
4  Edward  IV.  and  by  authority  of  the  said  Parliament  it  was  ordained  that 
the  said  last  earl  should  forfeit  all  the  possessions  which  he  held  or  anyone  held 
to  his  use  on  30  December,  39  Henry  VI.  and  the  said  John  Odeland  was 
seised  of  the  manor  until  the  said  22  September  when  by  force  of  the  said 
act  and  inquisition  the  manor  was  taken  into  the  king's  hands  by  the  said 
escheator,  but  that  neither  the  said  last  earl  nor  any  other  person  had  lawful 
cause  of  entry  in  the  manor  on  the  said  30  December  except  the  said  John 
Odeland,  wherefore  the  petitioner  prays  that  justice  may  be  done.     By  p.s. 

Membrane  12d. 

Dec.  12.  Commission  of  oyer  and  terminer  to  the  king's  brothers  George,  duke  of 
Westminster.  Clarence,  and  Richard,  duke  of  Gloucester,  the  king's  kinsmen  Richard, 
earl  of  Warwick  and  Salisbury,  William,  earl  of  Arundel,  and  Richard,  earl 
of  Ryvers,  and  Anthony  Wydevile  of  Scales,  knight,  John  Audeley  of 
Audeley,  knight,  Humphrey  Stafford  of  Suthwyk,  knight,  William  Stourton 
of  Stourton,  knight,  Robert  Danby,  knight,  William  Yelverton,  knight, 
Richard  Byngham,  knight,  Thomas  Billyng,  William  Laken,  Walter  Moile, 
knight,  John  Nedeham,  knight,  Richard  Chok,  knight,  Thomas  Litelton, 
Thomas   Yong,   Thomas   Burgh,    knight,  Maurice   Berkeley,  Thomas 

Welles,   ,  mayor  of  Southampton,  and  John  Port,  mayor  of 

Salisbury,  in  the  counties  of  Southampton,  Wilts  and  Devon  and  the  town 
■  of  Suthampton  and  the  city  of  Salisbury  and  their  suburbs.  By  K. 

Membrane  Ad. 

Nov.  26.  Commission  to  Humphrey  Stafford  of  Suthwyk,  knight,  and  Alvred 
Westminster.  Corneburgh  to*  arrest  John  Rawlegh  of  Dertmouth,  Walter  Coke,  Ralph 
Mercer,  Philip  Courtenay,  knight,  John  Wynard,  esquire,  John  Gardener, 
clerk,  Richard  Catte, .  Alan  Bower,  Ralph  Mercer,  Thomas  Payn,  Hugh 
David,  Thomas  Brown,  William  Robert,  William  Mercer,  Richard  Baker, 
Robert  Mercei',  William  Clement,  John  Clement,  William  William,  John 
William,  Henry  Coke,  Thomas  Hunt,  Thomas  Symond,  Christopher 
Wynard,  William  Stephen  and  Thomas  Taillour  within  the  county  of 
Devon  and  bring  them  before  the  king  in  council,  and  to  enquire  into 
whose  hands  the  goods  and  merchandise  of  certain  six  ships  of  Flanders 
came  and  of  what  value  they  were.  The  king  lately  appointed  John 
Wenlok  of  Wenlok,  knight,  and  other  commissioners  to  examine  the 


8  EDWARD  IV^Part  II. 


129 


1468.  Membrane  4d — cont. 

complaint  of  John  le  Veer,  bailiff  of  Ermewe  in  Seland,  and  Adrian  Smoet, 
burgess  of  Monkered  in  Flanders,  on  behalf  of  themselves  and  other  part- 
owners,  victuallers  and  masters  of  the  said  six  ships  that  these  were  taken 
by  certain  subjects  of  the  king  in  certain  ships  of  the  realm  of  whicli  the 
said  John  Rawlegh  and  others  named  were  with  others  part-owners, 
victuallers  and  masters  contrary  to  the  form  of  the  truce  between  the  king 
and  Philip,  late  duke  of  Burgundy,  and  despoiled  of  wine  and  other  goods 
and  merchandise  and  certain  habiliments  and  gear  to  the  value  of  4,3.'  0 
crowns,  and  judgement  was  given  by  the  advice  of  the  council  that  tlie 
said  John  Rawelegh  and  others  named  should  make  restitution,  but  the 
said  John  and  Adrian  have  failed  to  get  restitution. 

Nov.  25.        Commission  to  Philip  Mede,  mayor  of  the  town  of  Bristol,  Richard 
Westminster.  Chok,  knight,  Nicholas  Hcrvy  and  the  sheriff  of  the  town  to  inquire  into 
all  treasons,  felonies  and  trespasses  committed  within  the  said  town  by 
Lewis  John,  late  of  Bristol,  '  toker,'  alias  '  yoman,'  alias  Lewis  Toker  late 
of  Bristol. 


y  9618G 


I 


130 


8  EDWARD  IV.— Part  III. 


1469. 

Jan.  23. 

'Westminster. 


Jan.  28. 
Westminster. 

Feb.  1. 
Westminster. 

Feb.  2. 
Westminster. 

Feb.  7. 

Westminster. 

Feb.  8. 
Westminster. 


Feb.  3. 
Westminster. 


Membrane  16. 

Grant  to  Thomas  Billyng,  chief  justice  of  the  King's  Bench,  for  the  better 
maintenance  of  his  estate,  of  lyO  marks  yearly  at  the  hands  of  the  clerk  or 
keeper  of  the  hanaper  or  the  customers  in  the  ports  of  London,  Bristol  and 
Kyngeston-on-HuU,  according  to  the  form  of  an  act  in  Parliament  at 
Westminster,  18  Henry  VI.  and  10(3*.  ll^of.  and  the  sixth  part  of  ^c?.  yearly 
at  Christmas  for  a  robe  with  fur  and  66s.  6d.  yearly  at  Whitsuntide  for  a 
robe  with  lining.  By  K. 

Presentation  of  Christopher  Groldsmyth  to  the  parish  church  of  Enfeld, 
in  the  diocese  of  Coventry  and  Lichfield. 

General  pardon  to  William  Waynflet,  bishop  of  Winchester.  \^Feedera.} 

By  K. 

The  like  to  Robert  Westgate,  prior  of  the  cathedral  church  of  St.  Swithun, 
Winchester.  By  p.s. 

General  pardon  to  John  Poulet  alias  Paulet  of  Basyng,  co.  Southampton, 
esquire,  and  Eleanor  his  wife  of  all  offences  committed  by  them  before 
4  February.  By  p.s. 

Licence  for  Thomas  Hoo,  esquire,  Richard  Leakenore,  esquire, 
Bartholomew  Bolney,  Henry  Kyghley,  esquire,  Roger  Philpot,  Henry 
Assheburn,  William  Lemyng,  John  Sherman  and  Thomas  Boket  to  grant 
the  manor  of  Welyngton  Hay  and  100  acres  of  land,  500  acres  of  wood 
and  200  acres  of  heath  in  Welyngton  Hay,  co.  Salop,  held  in  chief,  to 
Roger  Wysewall  of  the  town  of  Shrewsbury,  merchant,  Thomas  Coupere, 
John  Wysewall  and  Thomas  Goldsmyth  and  their  heirs. 

For  13s.  4(1.  paid  in  the  hanaper. 

Grant  for  life  to  John  Fayroni,  chaplain,  in  lieu  of  a  like  grant  to  John 
Walton,  chaplain,  by  letters  patent  surrendered,  of  the  chantry  within  the 
king's  manor  of  Clypstone  and  the  chapel  of  St.  Edwin  within  the  forest  of 
Shirwode,  and  also  lOOs.  yearly  from  the  issues  of  the  counties  of  Nottingham 
and  Derby,  as  allowed  in  <he  Great  Roll  of  29  Edward  III.  to  Walter  de 
Monte  Gomeri,  then  sheriff',  for  Robert  Rotour,  then  chaplain,  and  in  the 
Great  Roll  of  6  Richard  II.  to  John  de  Leek,  then  sheriff,  for  John  Davy 
of  Collewell,  then  chaplain,  that  he  may  pray  for  the  good  estate  of  the 
king  and  his  consort  Elizabeth,  queen  of  England,  and  for  their  souls  after 
death  and  the  souls  of  the  king's  progenitors.  By  p.s. 

Mandate  in  pursuance  to  the  sheriff  of  Nottingham  and  Derby. 


1468.  Membrane  15. 

Dec.  6.  Inspeximus  and  confirmation  to  William  Basset,  the  proctor,  master  or 
Westminster,  warden,  and  the  scholars  of  the  college  called  '  Goddeshous  '  in  the  University 
of  Cambridge  of  letters  patent  dated  4  November,  2  Edward  IV.  granting 
in  frank  almoin  to  William  Fallan,  then  proctor,  and  the  scholars  divers 
rents,  priories,  lands  and  advowsons,  by  virtue  of  which  the  said  proctor 
and  scholars  were  seised  as  in  the  right  of  their  college  of  certain  parcels 
of  the  premises,  but  wliich  are  insufficient,  and  grant  to  tliem  in  frank 
almoin  of  all  the  above-mentioned  premises  and  all  issues  from  Michaelmas, 


8  EDWARD  IV.— Part  III. 


131 


1468. 


1469. 

Feb.  5. 
Westniinster. 


Feb.  7. 
Westminster. 

Feb.  13. 

Westminster. 


Membrane  15 — cont. 
4  Edward  IV.  with  licence  to  appropriate  the  churches  of  Nanby  alias 
Naanby,  co.  Lincoln,  and  Fyndrayton  alias  Fynnedrayton  or  Fennedrayton, 
CO.  Cambridge,  provided  that  the  vicarages  ol'  the  churches  be  sufRcif  ntly 
endowed  and  certain  sums  be  distributed  yearly  among  the  poor  parishioners, 
that  they  may  pray  for  the  good  estate  of  the  king  and  his  consort 
Elizabeth,  queen  of  England,  and  for  the  souls  of  the  king's  father  Richard, 
late  duke  of  York,  the  king's  brother  Edmund,  earl  of  Rutland,  and  \Villiam 
Byngham.  By  p.s. 

Exemplification  of  the  tenour  of  the  enrolment  of  a  charrer  dated  at 
Westminster,  2o  March,  5  John,  disafforesting  the  part  of  the  forest  of 
Essex  beyond  the  causeway  to  the  north  leading  from  Storteford  to  Colcestre 
U[j  to  the  wood  of  Wyldehora  where  it  joins  the  causeway  at  the  head  of 
the  dyke  called  '  Haydych  '  and  thence  beyond  the  causeway  as  the  way 
tends  to  the  new  bridge  and  thence  as  the  great  road  tends  to  Hey  land. 
[Iloluli  Chartarum,  p.  12.3.] 

Inspeximus  and  confirmation  to  the  men  dwelling  within  th?  said  bounds 
and  their  heirs  of  the  preceding  letters  patent. 

For  1  mark  paid  in  the  hanaper. 

Grant  for  life  to  Thomas  Burgh,  one  of  the  knights  of  the  king's  body, 
and  Edward  his  son  of  the  office  of  steward  of  the  king's  soke  and  lordships 
of  Kirketon  in  Lyndcsey,  co.  Lincoln,  receiving  the  accustomed  mirages  and 
profits  at  the  hands  of  the  receivers,  bailiffs,  reeves  or  other  occupiers ;  in 
lieu  of  a  like  grant  to  the  said  Thomas,  then  one  of  the  escpiires  of  the  body, 
by  letters  patent  dated  9  July,  1  Edward  IV.  surrendered.  By  p.s. 


1468.  ^  Membrane  14. 

Nov.  15.  Exemplification,  at  the  request  of  the  master  and  brethren  of  the  hospital 
Westminster,  of  St.  Leonard,  York,  of  the  tenor  of  an  act  (English)  before  tlie  king  and 
council,  sent  into  Chancery  by  writ  of  i)rivy  seal,  to  the  effect  that  whereas 
the  master  and  brethren  complained  that  Hugh  Hastynge.s,  knight,  John 
Womwell,  Alexander  Drax,  Thomas  Methehiy,  squires,  Richard  Jakson 
and  others  by  their  stirring  in  the  county  of  York  had  withdrawn  from 
the  hospital  a  yearly  profit  and  commodity  called  '  thraves  of  come '  or 
'  Petercorne,'  and  the  king  committed  the  examination  of  the  right  and  title 
thereof  to  his  cousin  the  earl  of  Warwick  and  John  Markham  and  Robert 
Danby,  knights,  his  chief  judges,  before  whom  not  only  in  the  Exchequer 
chamber  but  also  in  full  council  the  matter  was  plainly  opened  and  under- 
stood and  the  title  and  right  of  the  said  master  and  brethren  to  have  yearly 
of  every  plough  '  erande '  within  the  counties  of  York,  Westmoreland, 
Cumberland  and  Lancashire  within  the  province  of  York  a  thrave  of  all 
manner  of  corn  was  shown  by  confirmations  of  king  William  the  Conqueror, 
Henry  II.  Henry  IIL  and  all  other  progenitors  of  the  king,  and  the  king 
himself  and  his  fiUher  the  duke  of  York  and  other  persons,  aud  by 
recoveries  at  the  common  law  against  the  archbishop  of  York,  the  abbot  of 
St.  Marie  abbey,  York,  and  other  notable  persons  and  awards  made  by 
John,  late  earl  of  Shrewsbury,  and  William  Babyngton,  knight,  chief 
justice  of  the  Common  Bench  and  justice  of  iissize  within  the  said  shire  of 
York,  and  by  a  statute  and  act  of  Parliament  and  books  of  accounts,  and 
divers  bulls  of  popes  and  letters  of  St.  Thomas  of  Canterbury  and 
St.  William  of  York,  and  divers  ol.her  archbishops  and  bishops,  the  king 
in  the  Star  Chamber  at  Westminster,  on  21  July,  8  Edward  IV.  having 
consideration  to  the  premises  and  how  in  substance  by  the  said  thraves  the 
said  master,  13  brethren,  4  secular  iiriests,  8  sisters,  30  choristers,  two 
schoolmasters,  one  to  teach  grammar  and  the  other  music,  206  bedemen 

I  2 


132 


CALENDAR  OF  PATENT  ROLLS. 


146S. 


Dec.  20. 
Westminster, 


Dec.  6. 
Wesfuiinster. 


1469. 

Feb.  15. 

Westminster. 


Feb.  1. 
Westminster. 


Membrane  14 — cont. 

and  women  and  6  servants  are  sustained  and  also  the  long  prescription 
and  general  custom,  ordained  that  payment  should  be  made  of  the  said 
thraves  except  by  such  persons  as  should  make  composition.  Present : — 
the  archbishop  of  York,  the  bishop  of  Bath,  chancellor  of  England,  the 
bishop  of  Durham,  the  bishop  of  Rochester,  keeper  of  the  privy  seal, 
the  earls  of  Warwick,  Essex  and  Northumberland,  the  prior  of  St,  John 
of  Jerusalem  in  England,  Master  Thomas  Kent  and  William  Notyngham. 

By  p.s. 

Grant  to  the  king's  kinsmen  Richard,  earl  of  Warwick,  and  John,  earl 
of  Northumberland,  and  John  Howard,  king's  knight,  treasurer  of  the 
household,  and  George  Willerby,  esquire,  of  all  mines  of  gold  and  silver  and 
all  mines  of  lead  containing  gold  and  silver  wherever  found  within  the  realm 
of  liipgland  from  the  Trent  to  the  north  after  agreement  with  the  possessor 
of  the  soil,  to  hold  for  40  years  from  the  Purification  next,  rendering  to 
the  king  a  twelfth  part  of  the  pure  gold  and  silver,  and  to  the  lords  of 
the  soil  in  which  the  mines  are  dug  a  sixteenth  part  and  supporting  all 
"  expenses,  with  power  to  search  and  dig  freely,  provided  that  they  do  not 
dig  below  houses  or  castles  without  licence  of  the  lord  of  the  soil,  and  with 
power  to  take  wood,  underwood  and  coals  for  the  purging  of  the  said  metals 
and  also  workmen.  By  p.s. 

Membrane  13. 

Whereas  on  4  December  by  letters  patent  [see  p.  U7)  the  king  granted 
to  Thomas,  archbishop  of  Canterbury,  and  others  certain  specified  manors 
to  hold  for  the  life  of  Joan  wife  of  William  Beaumont,  knight,  for  her  use, 
and  whereas  a  .sum  of  3,168/.  2s.  9\d.  is  due  by  the  king  to  his  kinsman 
William,  carl  of  Pembroke,  as  appears  in  the  receipt  o?the  Exchequer ;  he 
hereby  in  full  satisfaction  of  200  marks,  parcel  thereof,  grants  the  reversion 
of  the  said  manors  on  the  death  of  tiie  said  Joan  to  the  said  earl  and 
William  Herbert,  lord  of  Dunstre,  Thomas  Vaughan  son  of  Roger 
Vaughan,  knight,  Richard  Fouler,  John  Herbert  and  Kenelm  Dygas  to 
hold  for  the  use  of  the  earl  and  his  heirs,  viz.  the  manors  of  Cantelee, 
Strumpcshagh,  Castre,  Ilketishale,  Denyngton  and  Brundisshe  and 
Cretyngham  for  the  life  of  Katherine,  duchess  of  Norfolk,  and  the  manors 
of  Westburgh  and  Cathorp  for  the  life  of  Eleanor,  duchess  of  Norfolk,  by 
the  services  of  as  many  knights'  fees  and  as  many  other  rents  and  services 
as  they  were  held  by  before  4  March,  1  Edward  IV.  Also,  for  the  sum 
of  3,075  marks  to  be  paid  by  the  king's  kinsman  John,  duke  of  Norfolk, 
at  the  receipt  of  the  Exchequer,  the  king  grants  to  him  and  his  heirs  and 
assigns  the  reversions  of  the  said  manors  on  the  death  of  the  said  Joan 
and  the  duchesses  Katharine  and  Eleanor  respectively,  to  hold  by  the  said 
services.  By  p.s. 

Presentation  of  Thomas  Jiaker,  parson  of  the  parish  church  of  Brantfeld, 
in  the  diocese  of  Lincoln,  to  the  parish  church  of  King's  Ryptou,  in  the  same 
diocese,  on  an  exchange  of  benefices  with  Hugh  Phelyppes. 

Grrant  to  Gerard  Caniziaui  of  Florence,  merchant,  in  repayment  of  the 
sum  of  3,225/.  G*-.  ^.d.  due  to  him  from  the  king,  as  appears  in  the  receipt 
of  the  Exchequer,  that  he  or  his  executors  after  Ids  decease  or  their 
factors  or  attorneys  may  ship  sacks  and  bales  of  wool,  woollen  cloths  and 
pieces  of  tin  and  lead  in  the  ports  of  London,  Sandwicli  and  Southampton, 
and  take  the  wools  by  the  straits  of  Marrok,  and  the  woollen  cloths,  tin 
and  lead  to  any  foreign  parts  and  bring  back  other  merchandize  to  the 
said  ports  quit  of  customs  and  subsidies  until  he  shall  thus  be  fully  satisfied 
of  the  said  .sum.  By  p.s. 


8  EDWARD  IV.— Part  III. 


13.3 


1469. 

Feb.  U. 
Westminster. 


1468.  Membrane  12. 

Dec.  G.  Grant  for  life  to  the  king's  servant  William  Evyngton,  in  lieu  of  a  like 
Westminster,  grant  to  him  by  letters  patent  dated  10  June,  1  Edward  IV,  surrendered, 
of  the  office  of  the  custody  of  the  king's  manor  within  the  park  of 
Wyndesore,  of  the  office  of  the  custody  of  the  .said  manor  and  the  king's 
stank  there,  and  2d.  daily  from  Michaelmas  la^t  from  the  i.<sues  of  the  castle 
and  lordship  of  Wyndesore  as  were  allowed  for  the  same  office  in  the  account 
of  Holmyng  Leget,  con.stable  of  the  castle,  in  the  last  year  of  Edward  III. 
and  the  first  of  Richard  II.  as  appears  in  the  Exchequer,  with  all  other 
profits;  and  grant  to  him  also  of  18/.  lO.s.  from  the  issues  of  the  castle 
and  lordship  as  arrears  from  Michaelmas,  2  Edward  IV.  By  p.s. 

Whereas  by  an  incjuisition  taken  before  William  Moton,  esquire,  lato 
escheator  in  the  county  of  Warwick,  on  the  death  of  Eleanor  late  the  wife 
of  Thomas  Butteler,  knight,  it  was  found  that  Ralph  Butteler,  knight,  lord 
of  Sudeley,  was  seised  of  the  manors  of  Greve  and  Great  Dorset,  co. 
Warwick,  in  bis  demesne  as  of  fee  and  in  the  year  28  Henry  VI.  granted 
them  to  the  said  Thomas  his  son  and  the  said  Eleanor  and  the  heirs  of  the 
body  of  Thomas,  and  the  said  Thomas  died  without  issue  and  Eleanor  was 
seised  of  the  manors  for  her  life  and  in  the  year  39  Henry  VI.  surrendered 
her  estate  in  the  said  manor  of  Greve  to  the  said  Ralph,  and  the  sjiid 
manors  were  taken  into  the;  king's  hands  because  the  grant  and  acquisition 
of  tliem  and  the  entries  thereon  wen;  without  licence  ;  the  king  pardons 
these  trespa.sses  and  grants  to  the  said  Ralph  that  he  may  enter  into  and 
hold  the  said  manors  to  himself  and  his  heirs  with  issues  from  the  time  of 
the  death  of  Eleanor,  and  also  pardons  to  him  and  Alesia  his  wife  all 
offences  committed  by  them  before  25  January  last.  By  p.s. 

Feb.  23.        General  pardon  to  Joan  Ughtred  the  wife  of  Robert  lightered  alias 
Westminster.  Oghtrede  alias  Oughtrith  late  of  Kexby,  cn.  York,  knight,  of  all  offences 
committed  by  her  before  22  February  last.  By  p.s. 

The  like  to  Ralph  Ughtrode  alias  Oughtred  alias  Ughtryth  late  of  Kexby, 
CO.  York,  esquire,  alias  '  gentilrnan.'  By  p.s. 

March  3.        Protection  with  clause  volumus,  for  one  year,  for  John  Compton  of 
Westminster.  Brystowe,  merchant,  alias  '  vynter,'  staj  ing  on  the  king's  service  in  the 
company  of  the  king's  brother  George,  duke  of  Clarence,  lieutenant  of 
Ireland,  on  the  safe  custody,  defence  and  victualling  of  that  land. 

By  bill  of  p.s. 

1468.  Membrane  11. 


May  18. 

Westminster. 


Licence  for  the  king's  kinsman  John,  earl  of  Shrewsbury,  to  enter  freely 
into  all  castles,  lordships,  manors,  lands  and  other  possessions  in  England 
and  Wales  and  the  marches  of  the  same  which  Margaret  late  the  wife  of 
John,  late  earl  of  Shrewsbury,  held  in  dower  of  his  inheritance,  and  grant 
to  him  of  all  the  issues  thereof  from  her  death.  By  p.s. 

May  18.  Whereas  on  24  August,  4  Edward  IV.  by  letters  patent  the  king  granted 
Westminster,  licence  to  John,  earl  of  Shrewsbury,  to  enter  into  all  castles,  lord.ships 
manors,  lands,  rents,  reversions,  services,  fees,  advowsons,  j)ossessions  and 
hereditaments  late  of  John,  late  earl  of  Shrewsbury,  his  father,  in  England, 
the  marches  of  Wales  and  the  lordship  of  Ireland,  and  accordingly  ho 
entered  into  and  was  .seised  of  them,  but  by  an  inquisition  taken  at 
Newport,  CO.  Salop,  on  Tuesday  after  the  Translation  of  St.  Thomas 
Martyr,  5  Edward  IV.  before  Hugh  Harnage,  esquire,  then  escheator  in 
the  county,  it  was  found  that  tlic  said  late  earl  held  in  chief  of  the  late  king 
the  manor  of  Wrokwardeyne,  co.  Salop,  in  his  demesne  as  of  fee  by  a  rent 
of  8/.  yearly  and  the  manor  of  Cheswardeync,  co.  Salop,  by  the  service  of 


134 


CALENDAR  OF  PATENT  ROLLS. 


1468.  Membrane  11 — cont. 

a  moiety  of  a  knight's  fee  and  was  seised  in  his  demesne  as  of  fee  of  the 
manors  of  Bitterley,  Alburbury  and  Tasseley  with  the  advowsons  of  the 
churches  of  Bitterley  and  Tasseley  and  a  moiety  of  the  manor  of  Lynley, 
CO.  Salop,  and  two  messuages  and  a  moiety  of  a  messuage,  20  acres  of  land 
and  4  acres  of  wood  in  Rowthale,  co.  Salop,  with  10s.  rent  of  assize  in  the 
same  town,  and  these  were  taken  into  the  king's  hands,  the  king  now  grants 
licence  for  the  earl  to  freely  enter  into  and  hold  the  same,  with  all  issues 
from  the  time  of  the  inquisition.  By  p.s. 

Ii69. 

Feb.  10.        Grant,  during  pleasure,  to  John  Walker  of  the  office  of  tronage  and 
Westmiustcr.  pesage   in   the   port   of  Suthampton   and   ports  and  places  adjacent, 
receiving  the  accustomed  fees.  By  bill  of  the  treasurer. 


Membranes  lOand'd. 

Exemplification,  at  the  request  of  Richard,  bishop  of  Bangor,  of  the 
tenoui-  of  the  enrolment  of  letters  patent  dated  18  December,  2  Richard  II. 
inspecting  and  confirming  to  John,  then  bishop,  the  following: — 

1.  Letters  patent  dated  18  November,  6  Edward  II. 

2.  Letters  patent  of  Edward,  prince  of  Wales,  dated  at  Beaumaris, 
8  October,  25  Edward  III. 

3.  Letters  patent  of  the  same  dated  at  Beaumaris,  10  October,  25 
Edward  III.  inspecting  and  confirming  the  following  : — 

(1.)  A  charter  dated  at  Windsor,  28  July,  3  Edward  III. 
[^Charter  Roll,  3  Edward  III.  No.  33],  inspecting  and 
confirming  the  following  : — 

a.  A  charter  dated  at  Carnarvon,  21  October,  12  Edward  I. 
[Charter  Roll,  12  Edward  1.  No.  l.'J 

b.  Letters  patent  dated  22  April,  7  Edward  II.  inspecting 
and  confirming  letters  patent  dated  18  November,  6 
Edward  11. 

(2.)  Letters  patent  dated  16  August,  8  Edward  III. 
(3.)  A  charter  dated  at  Stamford,  10  August,  4  Edward  III. 

[Charter  Roll,  4  Edioard  III.  No.  51.] 
(^.)  Letters  patent  dated  2  October,  15  Edward  III.  being  an 
exemplification  of  letters  patent  dated  10  May,  3  Edward  III. 
(5.)  Letters  patent  dated  5  November,  12  Edward  I. 

These  letters  of  Richard  II.  have  been  lost  by  accident,  as  Hugh  Morgan, 
dean  of  Bangor,  has  taken  oath  in  Chancery,  and  will  be  surrendered  if 
found. 

Membrane  9 — cont. 

Dec.  20.  Iiispeximus  and  confirmation  to  Richard,  bishop  of  Bangor,  of  the 
Westminster,  preceding  letters  patent.  For  100.y.  paid  in  the  hanaper. 

1469. 

Feb.  3.  Grant  to  Philip  Hardebene,  merchant,  in  repayment  of  the  sum  of 
Westminster.  170/.  O-v.  2d.  due  to  him  from  the  king,  that  he  or  his  executors  after  his 
decease  or  their  factors  or  attorneys  may  ship  sacks  and  bales  of  wool  in 
any  ports  of  the  realm  and  take  them  to  the  parts  of  Italy  by  the  straits 
of  Marrok  quit  of  customs  and  sub.sidies  at  the  rate  of  4  marks  for  each 
sack  until  he  shall  thus  be  fully  satisfied  of  the  said  sum.  By  p.s. 

1468. 

Sept.  1.  Mandate  to  the  cscheator  in  tht;  counly  of  Curaberlund  for  tht-  restitution 
Westminster,  of  the  temporalities  of  the  bishopric  ot  Carlisle  to  Master  Edward  Story, 


1468. 

Dec.  12. 

Westminster. 


8  EDWARD  IV.— Faut  III. 


135 


1468.  Membrane  9 — cont. 

whom  the  pope  has  appointed  bishop  and  whose  fealty  the  king  haa  taken. 
\^Fcedera.']  By  p.s. 

The  like  to  the  escheators  in  the  following  counties  : — 
Lincoln. 
iVIid'.llesex. 
Westmoreland. 
Derby. 

Writ  de  intendendo  in  pursuance  to  the  tenants. 


1469. 

Feb.  22. 
Westminster. 


1468. 

Aug.  2. 
Westminster. 


Membranes  8  and  7. 

Inspeximus  and  confirmation  to  Henry  Trevylyan,  the  warden,  and  the 
brethren  and  sisters  of  the  hospital  of  St.  Katharine  by  the  Tower  of 
London  of  the  followius: : — 

1,  Letters  patent  tiated  23  April,  51  Edward  III.  granting  to  John  de 

Hermestliorp,  then  warden,  and  tin;  brcithren  and  sisters  a  piece  of 
land  adjoining  the  garden  of  the  hospital. 

2.  Letters  patent  dated  20  September,  50  Edward  III.  granting  to  them 

10/.  yearly  from  tiie  issues  of  the  hanaper  for  the  foundation  of  a 
chantry.  For  20*.  paid  in  the  hanaper. 


Inspeximns  and  confirmation  to  Laurence  Damlet,  the  warden,  and  the 
minor  canons  of  the  college  of  the  church  of  St.  Paul,  London,  of  letters 
patent  dated  1  August,  18  llichard  II.  incorporating  them  into  a  college 
and  granting  to  them  certain  messuages  ;  and  grant  of  protection  for  them 
and  their  tenants,  farmers,  servants,  houses,  lands  and  possessions;  grant 
that  nothing  shall  be  taken  of  tlicir  possessions  for  the  king's  use  ;  and 
licence  for  the  alienation  by  them  of  the  said  messuages  and  eight  messuages 
in  Sccollane  in  the  parish  of  St.  Sepulchre  without  Ncwegate  in  the 
suburbs  of  London  in  exchange  lor  other  messuages,  lands  and  possessions 
of  the  same  yearly  value.  By  p.s.  and  for  i00«.  paid  in  the  hanaper. 


1469.  Membrane  7 — cone. 

Feb.  7.  Grant  to  the  king's  kinsman  George,  archbishop  of  York,  and  his  heirs  and 
Westminster,  assigns  of  the  manor  of  Penley  or  Pendeley,  in  the  counties  of  Hertford  and 
Buckingham,  with  all  lands,  meadows,  pastures,  enclosures,  warrens,  woods, 
rents,  reversions,  services  and  profits,  and  S  messuages,  7  virgates  of  land, 
10  acres  of  meadow  and  20*.  rent  in  ITelpesthope,  Suaynburn,  Thetyngdon, 
Ivynglio,  Pichelsthorn  and  Aston,  co.  Buckingham,  in  the  king's  hands  by 
the  forfeiture  of  Ilobert  Whitingham,  knight,  and  by  authority  of  an  act  in 
Parliament  at  Westminster,  4  November,  1  Edward  IV.  to  hold  from 
4  Marcli,  I  lidward  IV.  by  the  service  of  the  fourth  part  of  a  knight's  fee 
and  a  rent  of  a  red  rose  yearly  at  Midsummer,  with  all  issues  from  that 
date.    IFa'dera.]  By  p.s. 

Membrane  6. 

Feb.  22.  Whereas  Edward  1.  by  lct(i-rs  piuent  dated  20  Oi  lobcr,  33  Edward  I. 
Wrstiniiisicr.  granted  to  the  prior  and  cdtiveiit  of  lvirl;eby  Monaohoruni  vipw  of  frank- 
pledge with  all  that  pertain.'^  to  it  from  llicir  nun  and  tenants  of  Theatre 
Waury,  Wolvey,  LittU'  Neindiam,  Kirkeby  Monachonnn,  Kewbold 
Paunton,  Little  Hardeboriish  anci  Walton  by  Wille,  co.  Warwick,  and 
Kirkeby  on  the  Wreke,  co.  Leicester,  and  infanjithefe  and  animals  called 
'wayflf  in  all  their  lands  of  those  places,  rendering  to  the  king  5  marks 
yearly  at  the  E-\chequer,  and  thu  prior  and  convent  of  the  Carlliusian 
house  of  the  Visitation  of  St.  Mary  in  the  Isle  of  Axiliolnie  now  hold  the 


lo6  CALENDAR  OF  PATENT  ROLLS. 


1469.  Membrane  6 — cont. 

said  priory  with  all  its  manors,  lands  and  possessions  by  a  gi'ant  of 
Richai'd  J],  to  John  Moreby,  then  prior  of  their  house,  and  his  brethren; 
the  king  hereby  confirms  to  the  prior  and  convent  of  the  said  Carthusian 
house  all  the  said  privileges  and  pardons  to  them  and  John  Hyggeford, 
esquire,  Thomas  Throgmarton,  esquire,  Ralph  Wodford,  esquire,  and 
•  Edward  Raylegh,  knight,  late  severally  sheriffs  of  "Warwick  and  Leicester, 
all  sums  of  money  due  to  the  king  for  the  said  o  marks  yearly  from  the  first 
day  of  the  reign.    [  Charter  Roll,  Z3  Edward  I.  No.  lb.']  By  p.s. 

Feb.  4.  Grant  for  life  to  John  Langley,  esquire,  and  Thomas  Seyntleger,  esquire, 
Westminster,  in  lieu  of  a  like  grant  to  the  former  by  letters  patent  dated  5  February, 
1  Edward  IV.  surrendered,  of  the  custody  of  the  king's  park  of  Chiltern- 
langley,  co.  Hertford,  the  custody  of  the  houses  of  the  mansion  of  the 
manor  of  Chilternlangley  and  the  ofBce  of  under-parker  of  the  king's  park 
of  Langley  called  Chilternlangley,  receiving  fees  as  in  the  times  of 
Edward  III.  and  Richard  II.  from  the  issues  of  the  king's  manor  or 
lordship  of  Chilternlangley.  By  p.s. 

Feb.  11  Whereas  on  25  November,  1  Edward  IV.  by  letters  patent  the  king 
Westminster,  granted  to  his  kinsman  John,  earl  of  Worcester,  the  office  of  justice  of 
North  "Wales,  and  on  28  August,  7  Edward  IV.  the  latter  at  the  king's 
desire  surrendered  these  letters  for  a  recompense  of  200/.  that  William, 
earl  of  Pembroke,  might  have  the  office  ;  the  king,  in  consideration  of  this 
and  because  the  earl  of  Pembroke  had  the  office  by  virtue  of  letters  patent 
on  the  said  28  August,  hereby  grants  to  the  said  earl  of  Worcester  and  his 
assigns  200/.  yearly  for  his  life  from  that  date  from  the  issues  of  South 
Wales  or  until  he  shall  be  provided  with  lands  to  that  value.  By  p.s. 

March  3.        Inspeocimus  and  confirmation   to   John  Sulyard,  now  seised   of  the 
Westminster,  undermentioned  warren  and  tenant  of  the  lands,  of  a  charter  dated  at 
Westminster,  6  January,  18  Edward  I.  granting  to  Roger  de  Escales  that 
he  and  his  heirs  should  have  free  warren  in  all  their  demesne  lands  of 
Wetherden,  co.  Suffolk.    [Charter  Boll,  18  Edward  I.  No.  101.] 

For  ^  mark  paid  in  the  hanaper. 


3IEMBRANES  5  and  4. 

Feb.  12.  Tnspcximus  and  confirmation  to  John  Sant,  the  abbot,  and  the  convent  of 
Westminster.  Abyndon  of  the  following  : — 

1.  Letters  patent  dated  26  July,  6  Edward  [III],  granting  that  the  prior 

and  convent  shall  have  the  custody  of  the  abbey  during  voidance, 
rendering  to  the  king  100  marks  for  the  first  month  and  afterwards 
at  the  same  rate. 

2.  Letters  patent  dated  14  October,  4   Richard  II.   inspecting  and 

confirming  to  Peter,  then  abbot,  and  the  convent  a  charter  dated  at 
Woodstock,  3  June,  10  Edward  III.  [Charter  Roll,  \Q  Edward  III. 
No.  30],  inspecting  and  confirming  tlie  following  : — 

(1.)  A  charter  of  Kenulf,  king  of  the  Mercians,  dated  821. 

(2.)  A  charter  dated  at  Westminster,  20  May,  11  Edward  11. 

[Charter   Roll,    11    Edward   11.   No.   4],   inspecting  and 

confirming  the  following  : — 

a.  A  ch.arter  dated  at  Gisors,  29  March,  1  Richard  I. 

b.  A  charter  dated  at  Portsmouth,  20  April,  14  Henry  III. 
[Charter  Roll,  14  Benrij  II f.  m.  4.] 

3.  Letters  patent  dated  18  January,  19  Richard  II.  confirming  their 

estate  in  the  manor  of  Whysshelee  and  Hurst  and  releasing  to  them 
a  profit  called  '  Metehome '  in  that  manor. 

For  10  marks  paid  in  the  hanaper. 


8  EDWARD  IV.— Part  III. 


137 


1469.  Membrane  4 — cont. 

Feb.  22.  Whereas  on  11  April,  5  Edward  IV.  by  letters  patent  the  king  granted 
\Vestmin«ter.  to  his  kinsman  Richard  Neville,  earl  of  Warwick,  and  the  heirs  of  his  body 
divers  manors  and  possessions,  with  the  provision  that  he  render  100/. 
yearly  to  the  king  so  long  as  Richard  Salkeld,  esquire,  or  any  male  heir  of 
his  body  survives,  the  king  hereby  releases  all  claim  to  the  said  100/.  yearly, 
in  consideration  of  the  good  services  of  the  earl  against  Henry  VI.  and  his 
accomplices  and  other  rebels.  And  whereas  on  23  July,  7  Edward  IV.  by 
other  letters  patent  {see  p.  25)  the  king  granted  to  Richard  Salkeld, 
esquire,  and  the  heirs  male  of  his  body  the  lordships  and  manors  of 
Caldebeke,  Uldale  and  Wigton  and  all  pastures  and  woods  called  '  le  West- 
ward' with  divers  specified  appurtenances  and  profits,  the  king  hereby 
grants  to  the  said  earl  and  his  said  heirs  the  reversion  of  the  same  should 
the  said  Richard  Salkeld  die  without  male  heir  of  his  body,  to  hold  by  the 
services  of  as  many  knights'  fees  and  as  many  other  rents  and  services  as 
they  were  held  by  before  4  March,  1  Edward  IV.  He  also  gi  ants  to  the  said 
earl  and  his  said  heirs  the  manors  of  Papcastre,  Aspatrike  and  Withal!, 
CO.  Cumberland,  in  the  king's  hands  by  the  forfeiture  of  Henry,  late  carl  of 
Northumberland,  and  by  virtue  of  an  act  of  Parliament  at  Westminster, 
4  November,  1  Edward  IV.  and  the  manors  of  Solihull  and  Sheldon,  co. 
Warwick,  to  hold  as  above  with  all  towns,  members,  lands,  rents,  services, 
reversions,  meadows,  feedings,  pastures,  woods,  waters,  stanks,  mills, 
fisheries,  advowsons,  knights'  fees,  courts  leet,  wards,  marriages,  reliefs, 
escheats,  warrens,  chaces,  liberties  and  all  other  profits.  By  p.s. 


Membrane  3. 

Feb.  12.  Whereas  lately  by  letters  patent  the  king  granted  to  his  sister  Anne, 
Westminster,  duchess  of  Exeter,  the  lordships  and  manors  of  Maynarbydre  aud  Pcnnelay, 
CO.  Pembroke,  and  the  castle,  land  and  lordship  of  Hope  and  Hopedale  in 
Wales  with  members  and  appurtenances  with  all  royal  rights,  franchises, 
liberties,  jurisdictions,  rents,  services,  courts  leet,  views  of  frank-pledge, 
cantreds,  commotes  and  other  profits,  the  town  of  Northwiche,  co.  CJhester, 
and  a  yearly  rent  of  7/.  6s.  8d.  from  the  issues  of  the  lands  of  Overmerssh, 
CO.  Chester,  the  manors  of  Stevyngton,  co.  Bedford,  and  Ludforde, 
CO.  Somerset,  the  manors  of  Bovitraey,  Northlyeu,  1  loldeswortby  and 
Langacre,  the  castle,  lordships  and  manors  of  Barnestaple,  Combemartyn, 
Southniolton,  Dartyngton,  Blakeburueboty,  the  hundred  of  Fremyngton 
iind  Southmolton  and  the  manor  of  Teryiigton,  co.  Devon,  the  manors  of 
Ilasilbearc  and  Blakedon  and  the  hundreds  of  Stone  and  Cattesasshe,  co. 
Somerset,  the  manors  of  Flete  Danerle,  Holberton,  Thorneton  and 
Wyncletracy,  co.  Devon,  an  inn  called  Coldeherborugh  and  Coldeherborugh- 
lane  in  the  city  of  Lontlon,  tlie  bailiwick  of  the  forestership  in  the  forest  of 
Grovele  called' '  Southbaille,'  co.  Wilts,  the  manors  of  Newton  and  Haydok, 
CO.  Lancaster,  the  manors  of  Dalbere  and  Dalberesley  and  Wryxworth, 
CO.  Derby,  the  manor  of  Redlyngton,  co.  Rutlan<l,  the  manor  of  Great 
Gaddesdcn,  co.  Hertford,  the  manor  of  Takeberc,  co.  Cornwall,  the  manor 
of  Merton,  co.  Westmoreland,  the  manor  of  Langton,  co.  York,  all  the  lands, 
rents  and  services  called  '  Dogettes '  and  '  Morises  '  in  Cawedon,  llakwell 
and  Little  Stanbrigge,  co.  Essex,  all  those  lands,  rents  and  services  called 
'  Wakerynges'  in  Great  Wakeryng  and  two  marshes  called '  Ryggewarde'  and 
'  Tyllewerdo  '  in  Great  Stanbrigge,  co.  Essex,  with  knights'  fees,  advowsons, 
services,  fairs,  markets,  warrens,  chaces,  lisherics  and  emoluments,  to  hold 
for  life  without  impeachment  of  waste  with  remainder  to  Anne  her  danghter 
and  the  heirs  of  the  body  of  the  latter  and  final  remainder  to  the  heirs  of 
the  body  of  (he  duche?s,  and  also  the  manor  of  Fremyngton,  co.  Devon,  to 
hold  with  knights'  fees  and  advowsons  for  life  and  for  seven  years  after 


138 


CALENDAR  OF  PATENT  ROLLS. 


1469.  Membrane  3 — cont. 

her  death  with  remainder  as  above  ;  the  king  hereby  grants  the  reversion 
of  the  same  in  default  of  such  heirs  to  his  consort  Elizabeth,  queen  of 
England,  and  her  heirs  and  assigns  to  hold  by  the  services  of  as  many 
knights'  fees  and  as  many  other  rents  and  services  as  they  were  held  by 
before  4  March,  1  Edward  IV.  with  wreck  of  sea,  chattels  of  felons, 
fugitives  and  outlaws,  chattels  called  waif  and  stray,  treasure  trove,  deodands 
and  other  profits.  Grant  also  to  her  and  her  heirs  and  assigns  of  60/. 
yearly  on  the  death  of  the  said  duchess,  viz.  40/.  from  the  issues  of  the 
county  of  Devon  and  201.  from  the  issues  oi  the  counties  of  Cambridge  and 
Huntingdon.  By  p.s. 

1468, 

Oct.  21.  Grant  to  the  abbess  and  convent  of  St.  Mary,  Winchester,  because  they 
Westmiubter.  are  so  burdened  with  the  repairs  of  their  house  and  church  and  other 
possessions  and  the  payment  of  tenths  and  other  imposts  that  they  cannot 
support  the  injunctions  of  their  order,  that  tliey  shall  have  view  of  franks 
pledge  and  assize  of  bread  and  ale  with  waif  and  stray  and  all  pertaining  to 
this  view  at  each  of  their  towns  of  Erchesfont  and  Canynges,  co.  Wilts, 
with  their  hamlets,  from  all  their  tenants  and  other  residents  in  the  said 
towns  and  hamlets  and  within  the  precinct  of  the  same,  and  tiiat  they  and 
the  said  tenants  and  residents  shall  be  quit  of  any  suit  at  the  king's  hundred 
of  Stotfold  alias  Swanbergh  and  of  receiving  any  sheriffs  or  other  officers, 
bailiffs  or  ministers  of  the  king.  By  p.s. 


■j^^gg  Membranes  2  and  1. 

March  2.  Indenture  between  the  king  and  William,  lord  Hastyngcs,  his 
Westminster,  chamberlain,  witnessing  that  whereas  the  king  has  taken  and  had  for 
coinage  of  every  pound  of  Tower  weight  of  gold  coined  within  his  mints  in 
his  realm  of  England  from  the  time  of  beginning  his  new  coins  until 
Michaelmas,  6  Edward  IV".  20,s.  lOfZ.  and  for  coinage  of  every  pound  of 
Tower  weight  of  silver  within  the  said  time  4s.  6d.  and  from  thence  until 
Michaelmas,  7  Edward  IV.  20s.  lOd.  and  3s.  2d.  respectively  in  like 
manner,  and  from  thence  until  Michaelmas,  8  Edward  IV.  14,5.  6d.  and 
2s.  8d.  respectively  in  like  manner,  he  has  ordained  that  from  Michaelmas 
last  aforesaid  until  Christmas  and  so  during  pleasure  there  shall  be  takea 
14s.  6d.  and  2s.  8d.  respectively  in  like  manner,  and  has  ordained  the  said 
lord  Hastyngcs  master  and  worker  of  his  moneys  of  gold  and  silver  and 
keeper  of  all  manner  '  chaungos  and  outchaunges  '  in  the  Tower  of  London, 
the  realm  of  England  and  the  town  of  Calais  and  marches  of  the  same.  He 
shall  make  five  kinds  of  gold  money,  one  piece  '  rennyng  for  10s.  of 
sterlinges'  which  shall  be  called  the  nohle  of  gold,  of  which  there  shall  be 
4.5  in  the  pound  of  the  Aveight  of  the  Tower,  pieces  of  5s.  called  the  half 
noble  of  gold  and  2s.  6d.  called  the  '  ferthyng '  of  gold  in  like  manner, 
a  piece  of  Gs.  8f/.  called  an  '  aungell '  of  gold,  of  whicli  there  shall  be  67^ 
in  the  pound,  and  a  piece  of  3s.  4d.  called  an  '  aungellet '  of  gold  in  like 
manner ;  and  every  pound  weight  of  the  Tower  of  the  said  moneys  shall  be 
worth  22/.  10s.  and  shall  be  of  23  carats  3^  grains  fine  ;  of  which  moneys  the 
kingfihall  have  of  every  pound  weight  14s.  6f/.,  whereof  tlie  master  shall  have 
2s.  Gd.  for  the  working  of  the  coins  and  other  expenses,  and  the  warden, 
controller,  clipper  of  the  irons  and  clerk  of  the  coins  shall  have  their 
expensesj  and  there  shall  remain  to  the  merchant  of  every  pound  of  fine 
gold  and  clean  which  he  putteth  to  coin  21/.  los.  6d.  The  master  shall  be 
allowed  at  the  assay  a  variation  of  the  eighth  part  of  a  carat  in  the  pound,  to 
be  called  *  reme  lie,'  but  otherwise  shall  melt  and  reforge  defective  money  at 
his  own  cost.  He  shall  make  five  kinds  of  silver  money,  viz.  a  piece  of  4d. 
called  a  'grate,'  of  which  there  shall  be  112-^  in  the  pound  aforesaid,  and 


8  EDWARD  IV.— Part  III. 


139 


1469.  Membranes  2  and  1 — cont. 

j)iecc.s  of  a  '  half  grote,'  a  penny,  a  halfpenny  and  a  farthing  in  like  manner  ; 
and  every  pound  weight  of  silver  of  these  moneys  shall  hold  11  ounces  2d. 
of  sterlings  of  the  -weight  of  line  silver  and  18</.  weight  of  alloy;  and  of 
every  such  pound  the  king  shall  have  2s.  8d.,  whereof  the  master  shall  have 
I4:d.  and  the  warden,  controller,  clipper  of  the  irons  and  clerk  of  the  coins 
shall  have  their  wages,  and  there  shall  remain  to  the  merchant  34s.  lOrf. ; 
and  the  '  reniedie  '  shall  be  2t/.  weight  in  ihe  pound,  liefore  issue  a  noble's 
value  of  every  10  pounds  of  gold  and  2s.  weight  of  every  100  pounds  of 
silver  shall  b(;  put  in  a  box  sealed  with  the  seals  of  the  warden,  master  and 
controller  and  shut  with  three  keys  of  which  they  shall  have  eacii  one,  and  the 
said  box  shall  remain  in  the  keeping  of  the  uiasK^r  and  shall  be  opened 
every  three  months  for  assay  at  Westminster  upon  reasonable  warning 
before  some  lordn  or  the  council  in  the  presence  of  the  warden  and  master, 
and  assay  shall  be  made  by  fire  or  touch.  The  master  shall  make  a  privy 
mark  upon  all  moneys  made  by  him  and  shall  take  gravers  to  grave  the 
irons  at  the  king's  cost  and  other  workmen,  and  the  irons  when  they  be 
clipped  shall  be  delivered  to  the  warden,  and  the  clipper  shall  not  clip 
elsewliere  but  in  one  house  witiiin  the  Tower.  He  shall  receive  gold  and 
silver  brought  to  the  Tower  at  its  true  value,  and  in  case  of  doubt  the  king's 
assayers  shall  determine  the  truth,  for  which  purjiose  two  stones  and  needles 
shall  be  provided,  and  the  balances  and  weights  shall  be  amended  from  time 
to  time.  No  money  or  bullion  shall  be  taken  out  of  the  realm,  except  by 
special  leave  of  the  king,  and  no  false  or  counterfeit  money  brought  in 
under  pain  of  forfeiture.  The  king  confirms  to  the  master  and  his  officei-s 
and  workers  of  the  said  money  the  charters  of  franchises  granted  to  the 
moneyers,  and  the  moneyers  shall  be  ready  to  do  their  work  at  all  times. 
And  no  person  shall  hohl  common  oxchange,  privy  or  apert,  on  pain  of  the 
forfeiture  contiiined  in  the;  statute  of  2.j  Kdvvard  III.  of  which  forfeiture 
the  master  shall  have  I2d.  in  the  pound.  And  for  the  iierforniance  of  the 
covenants  aforesaid  the  said  master  lias  found  borowes  in  U)Ol.  each,  viz. 
Ralph  Hastyngcs  of  Kerby,  co.  Leicester,  '  es(juyer,'  William  Stephens  of 
London,  '  gentilman,'  Hugh  Brice,  Robert  Hill,  Edmund  Shawe,  Richard 
Preston,  Henry  Massy  ami  John  Bai  ker  of  London,  '  goldsmythes.' 

English.  p.s. 


-j^^gg  Membr.ine  1 — cont. 

Oct.  25.  Grant  (o  the  king's  brother  Richard,  duke  of  Gloucester,  and  the  heirs 
Westminster,  of  his  body  of  the  castle,  lordship  and  manor  of  Fareley  with  its  members,  co. 

Somerset,  tiie  lordships  and  manors  of  Haightesbiny  and  Tefoiit,  co.  Wilts., 
and  the  other  lordships,  manors,  lands,  rents,  reversions,  services  and 
possessions  in  the  counties  of  Somerset,  Wilts,  Dorset,  DevoD,  Gloucester 
and  elsewhere  within  the  realm  of  England  late  of  Robert  Hungerford, 
knight,  late  lord  Hungerford,  and  in  tiie  king's  hands  by  reason  of  his 
forfeiture  and  by  virtue  of  an  act  in  Parliament  at  We.stmin9ter, 
4  November,  1  Edward  IV.  and  also  the  lordship,  manor  and  town  of 
Bedniynstrc  or  Bedmysler  with  ils  members  in  the  county  of  Gloucester 
and  all  lands,  farms,  rents,  services  anil  possessions  in  the  same  county  and 
elsewhere  within  the  realm  late  of  Eleanor,  late  duchess  of  Somerset,  or  in 
the  king's  liamls  by  the  (orfeiture  of  Henry,  late  duke  of  Somerset,  or 
Edmund  Beaufort  his  brother  and  by  virtue  of  the  act  aforesaid,  to  hold 
with  knights'  fees,  advowsons,  courts  leet,  views  of  frank-pledge,  fairs, 
markets,  jiarks,  warrens,  liberties,  franchises  and  other  profits  by  the 
acciistouiecl  i  ei  vices.  By  p.s. 


140 


CALENDAR  OF  PATENT  ROLLS. 


]^4g9^  Membrane  14rf. 

Feb.  12.  Commission  to  Walter  Devereuxof  Ferres,  knight,  Richard  Chok,  knight, 
Westminster.  John  Welford  and  Thomas  Brygge  to  deliver  the  gaol  of  Hereford  castle  of 
•John  Partrichetaker  late  of  Grossemoud  in  the  marches  of  Wales,  '  husbond- 
man,'  William  Webbe  of  Tybton,  co.  Gloucester,'  hiisbondman,'  John  Hull  of 
Tybton,  '  husbondman,'  William  Hull  of  Hopemeleyseli,  co.  Hereford, 
'  laborer,'  and  Walter  Putte  of  the  same,  '  husbondman,'  prisoners  there. 


141 


9  EDWARD  IV.— Part  I. 


Membrane  24. 

Pardons  of  outlawry  to  the  following  : — 

Richard  Conburj^h  late  of  Bysshoppyston,  co.  AVilts,  '  husbondman,' 
for  not  appearing  before  the  justices  of  the  Bench  to  answer  a  pica 
that  he  render  10  marks  to  George  Middelton  and  Richard  Gildon, 
administrators  of  the  goods  of  .John  Heth,  lale  canon  of  Salisbury 
cathedral  and  prebendary  of  Bysshoppyston,  who  died  intestate  ; 
he  having  surrenderod  to  the  Fiete  prison,  as  Robert  Danby,  knight, 
chief  justice  of  the  Bench,  has  certified.  Wilts. 

Ralph  Antron  late  of  Towestoke,  co.  Devon,  *  gentilman,'  for  not 
appearing  to  answer  Richard  Ryke  touching  a  trespass  comniitteil 
by  him  and  .Joan  Diibber  late  of  Towestokc,  wydowe,'  John 
Coteler  of  Barnestaple,  co.  Devon,  the  elder,  ' coteler,'  and  .John 
Cotelcr  of  Barnesta])le  the  younger,  '  coteler.'  Cornwall. 

William  Harres  of  Maydon  Bradley,  co.  Wilts,  'husbondman,'  for  not 
appearing  to  answer  Thomas  Rygby  touching  a  debt  of  10/.  Wilts. 

William  Grene  of  St.  Neots,  co.  Huntingdon,  *  taillour,'  for  not  ap- 
pearing when  sued  with  Thomas  Crakke  of  Kyml)alton,  co. 
Huntingdon,  'yoman,'  Thomas  Bowelast  of  Kymbalton,  '  yoman,' 
Thomas  liaret  of  Kymbalton,  "yoman,'  John  F'ysslier  of  Kynd)alton, 
'  glover,'  Roger  Walsshman  o("Kymbalton, '  yoman,'  'I'homas  Mynto  of 
Kymbalton,  '  yoman,'  Henry  Crakke  of  Kymbalton, '  yoman,'  Richard 
Rysley  of  Kymbalton,  'yoman,'  Richard  Boweblast  of  St.  Neots, 
'  yoman,'  .John  Chapman  of  St.  Neots,  the  younger, '  mercer,'  Thomas 
Stacy  of  St.  Neots,  'yoman,'  .John  Corbryk  of  St.  Neots,  '  taillour,' 
John  Gore  of  Great  Paxton,  co.  Huntingdon,  '  jomaa,'  Roger  Neve 
of  Great  Paxton,  'carpenter,'  Thomas  Smyth  of  Hareweston,  co. 
Huntingdon,  '  husl)ondman,'  Thomas  Lambe  of  Hardewyk  liy 
Awnsley,  co.  Huntingdon,  '  husbondman,'  .John  'I'urpyn  of  Basinglc, 
CO.  Huntingdon,  '  laborer,'  John  lUittelor  of  Litteljngton,  co.  Hunt- 
ingdon, '  husbondman,' and  John  Pynke  of  Littelyngton,  'yoman,' 
to  answer  Richard  Byeston  touching  a  trespass.  Cambridge. 

John  Alman  late  of  Whaddon  by  Ahvardbury,  co.  Wilts,'  husbondman,' 
alias  '  termer,'  for  not  ap])earing  to  answer  a  plea  that  he  render 
14/.  18*.  to  William  Heron,  citizen  and  '  haburdassher '  of  London, 
and  Joan  his  wife,  late  the  wile  of  Thomas  Pakker  late  of  Salisbury, 
'mercer,'  and  executrix  of  his  will.  Middlesex. 

Laurence  Aysshowe  or  Aysshewe  late  of  Charnok  Gogard,  co.  Lancaster, 
'  gentilman,'  for  not  appearing  before  the  king  when  sued  with 
Richard  Aysshowe  late  of  Cliarnok  Gogard,  'gentilman,'  Edward 
Cartwryght  late  of  Maunsfeld  in  Siiirwode,  co.  Nottingham, '  laborer'' 
and  Thomas  Brodeherst  late  of  Chernok  Gogard,  '  laborer,'  to 
answer  Richnrd  lUyngworth  touching  a  trespass,  and  when  sued  with 
William  Tranas  late  of  Siiarpulc,  co.  Lancaster,  'husbondman.' 
Nicholas  Tranas  late  of  Sharpule,  '  b.usbondman,'  Laurence  Tranas 
late  of  Sharpule,  '  husbondman,'  Ralph  'JVanas  late  of  Sharpule, 
'  husbondman,' Jolin  Stones  late  of  Sharpule,  '  husbondman,'  Elias 
Ratclyff  late  of  SharptHe,  '  gentilman,'  Robert  Aysshowe  late  of 
Chernok  Gogard,  '  gentilman,'  Nicholas  Aysshowe  late  of  Charnok 


142 


OALENDAE  OF  PATENT  BOLLS. 


1469.  Membrane  2i —cont. 

Gogard,  '  gentihnan,'  Marjory  Aysshowe  late  of  Cheruok  Gogard, 
'  wydowe,'  Henry  Worsley  late  of  Adlyngton,co.  Lancaster, '  laborer,' 
and  Richard  Worsley  late  of  Horwyche,  co.  Lancaster,  '  laborer/  to 
answer  Thurstan  Anderton,  chaplain.  Nottingham  and  York. 

April  19.  John  Mewburne  late  of  Ses3ay,  co.  York,  chaplain,  for  not  appearing 

Westminster.  to  ans\yer  Thomas  Grene,  vicar  of  the  parish  church  of  Leek, 

touching  a  trespass.  York. 

April  26.  William  Warner  late  of  Ipswich,  co.  Suffolk,  chaplain,  and  William 

Westminster.  Booll  late  of  Ipswich,  '  yoman,'  administrators  of  the  goods  late  of 

Gaudeberus  Makenham,  for  not  ajjpearing  before  the  king's  justices 
to  answer  a  plea  that  they  together  Avith  Herman  Williamson  late  of 
Ipswich,  '  berebrewer,'  their  co-administrator,  render  12/.  10s.  to 
John  Gairstange,  citizen  and  grocer  of  London.  London. 

April  27.  Edmund  Wartyr  late  of  London,  mercer,  for  not  appearing  before 

Westminster.  John  Prisot  and  his  fellows,  justices  of  the  Bench  of  the  late  king, 

to  answer  Bartholomew  Couper,  citizen  and  draper  of  London, 
touching  a  debt  of  40/.  London. 

April  27.  Robert  Cade,  parson  of  the  church  of  A.lesby,  co.  Lincoln,  for  not 

Westminster.  appearing  to  answer  the  dean  and  chapter  of  the  cathedral  church  of 

St.  Mary,  Lincoln,  touching  a  debt  ol  40/.  Lincoln. 

May  1.  Henry  Everyngham  of  Southclyff,  co.  York,  '  husbondman,'  for  not 

Westminster.  appearing  before  the  king  to  answer  lor  divers  trespasses,  he  having 

surrendered  to  the  MarsKalsea  prison,  as  Thomas  Biilyng,  chief 
justice  of  the  King's  Bench,  has  certified.  York. 

April  19.  Richard  Gaddesby  o.^  Shakeston,  co.  Leicester,  '  husbondman,' for  not 

Westminster.  appearing  before  the  justices  of  the  Bench  of  the  late  king  to  answer 

Thomas  Burdet,  esquire,  touching  a  tres])ass.  Warwick. 

May  6.  Richard  Sawyar  of  Great  Cliesterford,  co.  Essex,  '  husbondman,'  for 

Westminster.  not  appearing  before  the  justices  of  the  Bench  to  answer  .John 

Sawyer  touching  a  debt  of  lOOs.  Essex. 

William  Beverich  of  Artilburgh,  co.  Northampton,  '  husbondman,'  for 
not  appearing  before  John  Prysot  and  his  fellows,  justices  of  the 
Bench  of  the  late  king,  to  answer  John  Campyon  touching  a  debt  of 
40s.  Bedford. 

Nicholas  Baker  late  of  Biistowe,  'geutilman,'  for  not  appearing  before 
the  justices  of  the  Bench  to  answer  John  Walker  of  Suthampton, 
'  merchaunt,'  touching  a  debt  of  10/.  Town  of  Southampton. 

May  4-  .John  Hide  late  of  Brympton,  co.  Berks,  '  gentilman,'  lor  not  appearing 

Westminster.  before  John  Prisot  and  his  fellows,  justices  of  the  liench  of  the  late 

king,  to  answer  John  Colyns  touching  a  debt  of  4  marks.  Berks. 

April  20.  John  Barrus,  late  parson  of  the  parish  church  of  Pertenale,  co.  Bedford, 

Westminster.  for  not  appearing  before  the  justices  cf  the  Bench  to  answer  John 

Heton,  esquire,  touching  a  trespass.  Bedford. 

April  27.  Walter Rygge man  of  tiie  parish  of  Plymmouth,  co.  Devon, '  husbondman,' 

Westminster.  for  not  appearing  to  ai'swci-  'J'homas  Renyll  touching  a  debt  of  41. 

Cornwall. 

May  4.  John  ap  Richard  late  of  Webley,  co.  Hereford,  clerk,  for  not  appearing 

Westminster.  to  answer  Robert  Staunton  touching  a  debt  of  -lOs.  Leicester. 

May  4.  John  Cok  of  Newcastle  on  Tj^nc,  merchant,  for  not  appearing  to 

Westminster.  answer    .John    Shir\v(j|Je,   clerk,    muster  of  the  hospital   of  St, 

Edmund  in  Gateshed,  touching  a  debt  of  ^0/.  York. 


9  EDWARD  IV.— Part  T. 


U3 


Membrane  23. 

Robert  Eure  of  Bradley  in  the  bishopric  of  Durham,  esquire,  alias 
late  of  Bredon,  co.  Leicester,  for  not  a])pcaring  before  John  Prisot 
and  his  fellows,  justices  of  the  Bench  of  the  late  king,  to  answer  a 
plea  that  he  render  26/.  13.s.  \d.  to  Geoffrey  Bukley,  chaplain, 
Alexander  Bealfeld  and  Thomas  Bukley,  executors  of  the  will  of 
Richard  Bukley,  clerk.  Middlesex. 

Nicholas  Lake  of  Sourton,  co.  Devon,  '  laborer,'  for  not  appearing 
when  sued  with  John  Lake  of  Sourton,  'laborer,'  to  answer 
William  Weke  touching  a  trespass.  Devon. 

William  Dawc  of  Tbstoke,  co.  Leicester,  '  hushondman,'  for  not 
appearing  before  the  justices  of  the  Bench  of  the  late  king  to 
answer  'i'hom;i.s  Burdet,  estjuire,  touching  a  trespass.  Warwick. 

Richaid  Eyer  late  of  the  parish  of  St.  Andrew  Avithout  the  bars  of 
the  Old  Temple,  London,  '  gentilman,'  for  not  appearing  before 
the  justices  of  the  Bench  to  answer  Thomas  Gay  the  elder,  citizen 
and  tailor  of  London,  touching  a  debt  of  40*.  London. 

William  Shery  of  Wystanstowe,  co.  Salop,  chaplain,  for  not  appearing 
to  answer  Thomas,  abbot  of  Wygmore,  touching  a  debt  of  6/. 

.Salop. 

Thomas  EycoU  late  of  Bury  St.  Edmunds,  co.  Suffolk,  '  sadelcr,'  for 
not  appearing  before  John  l'ri.sot  and  his  fellows,  justices  of  the 
Bench  of  the  late  king,  to  answer  llenrv  Nunne  touching  a  debt 
of  40*.  "  Norfolk. 

Richard  Shyriffe  late  of  Theukesbury,  co.  Gloucester,  '  notary,'  alias 
burgess,  for  not  appearing  before  the  justices  of  the  Bench  to  answer 
Thomas  Hahnan,  'grocer'  of  Oxfoid,  touching  a  debt  of  10/. 

Oxford. 

Thomas  Barker  of  Howeden,  co.  York,  '  sadiller,'  for  not  appearing 
before  John  Prysot  and  his  fellows,  justices  of  tlie  Bench  of  the  lat«' 
kiug,:when  sued  with  Adam  Sadiller  of  Beverley,  oo.  York,  *  sadillt'r  ,' 
to  answer  Thomas  Hemelsey  touching  a  debt  of  lOO.s.  York. 

William  Synyer  late  of  Boughlagh,  co.  Sussex,  '  husbondman,'  for  not 
appearing  before  the  justice.^  of  the  Bench  lo  answer  a  plea  tliat  he 
render  ?  marks  '^s.  4d.  to  Alice  late  the  wife  of  Thomas  Wysshard 
and  John  Hunt,  executors  of  the  will  of  Thomas  Wysshard,  esciuire. 

Bed  lord, 

John  Sundewey  late  of  the  parish  of  St.  Nicholas,  Isle  of  Thanet,  co. 
Kent,  e-squire,  alias  late  of  Chistlet,  co.  Kent,  '  gentilman,'  for  not 
appearing  to  answer  William  Port,  esquire,  touching  two  debts  of 
40/.  and  the  abbot  of  the  monastery  of  St.  Aiigusline  by  Canterbury 
touching  a  debt  of  20/.  London  and  Kent. 

William  Lyngcn  late  of  London,  estjuire,  for  not  appearing  to  answer 
John  Chamberleyn,  clerk,  touching  a  debt  of  2'6l.  6s.  8d.  Middlesex. 

William  Smyth  of  Great  Barre,  co.  Stafford,  '  smyth,'  for  not  appearing 
to  answer  Hugh  Draper  of  Coventry  touching  a  debt  of  100/. 

City  of  Coventry. 

Richard  Lychefeld  of  Taunton,  co.  Somerset,  'chapman,'  for  not 
appearing  to  answer  William  Boket  touching  a  debt  of  40*.  \Yilts. 

Thomas  Fiaunces  late  of  Norwich,  merchant,  for  not  appearing  to 
answer  Thomas  Coke  of  Westwyk,  co.  Norfolk,  the  elder,  touching 
a  debt  of  14/.  Norfolk. 


144 


CALENDAR  OF  PATENT  ROLLS. 


1469. 

July  4. 
Westminster, 


June  14. 
Westminster. 


July  4. 
Westminster. 


June  7. 
Westminster. 


July  6. 

Westminster. 

July  9. 
AVestminster. 


Oct.  20. 

Westminster. 

'Oct  18. 
Westminster. 


Oct.  9. 

Westminster. 

Oct.  30. 

Westminster. 


Nov.  3. 
Westminster. 


Nov.  7. 

Westminster. 


Nov.  8. 
Westminster. 


Membrane  23 — cont. 

Thomas  Innocent  of  Leycestre,  co.  Leicester,  '  belleyeter,'  for  not 
appearing  before  Ricliard  Neuton  and  his  fellows,  justices  of  the 
Bench  of  the  late  king,  to  answer  John  Fabyan  of  Coggeshale, 
'draper,'  touching  a  debt  of  20/.  and  before  the  justices  of  the 
Bench  of  the  present  king  to  answer  John  Dalby,  son  .of  Alice 
Dalby,  late  widow,  touching  a  debt  of  lOZ.    London  and  Nottingham. 

William  Haryngton  late  of  Westley,  co.  Lancaster,  esquire,  for  not 
appearing  before  John  Prysot  and  hid  fellows,  justices  of  the  Bench 
of  the  late  king,  to  answer  Thomas  Loughton  and  Robert  Colwyche, 
executors  of  the  will  of  Ralph  Holand,  late  citizen  and  tailor  of 
London,  touching  a  debt  of  6/.  London. 

Thomas  Grene  late  of  Wendover,  co.  Buckingham,  '  yoman,'  for  not 
appearing  before  the  justices  of  the  Bench  to  answer  John  Nasshe 
touching  a  debt  of  5  marks.  Buckingham. 

Roger  Goldwyn  of  Hadley,  co.  SufPolk,  '  chapman,'  for  not  appearing 
to  answer  William  Lok  of  London,  '  mercer,'  touching  two  debts  of 

London. 

William  Cokkys  late  of  Castelacre,  co.  Norfolk,  clerk,  for  not  appearing 
to  answer  John  Gylmyn  touching  a  trespass.  Norfolk. 

Robert  Cotes  late  of  Bryggewater,  co.  Somerset,  '  gentilman,'  alias  of 
Welscombe  or  Wyllescombe,  co.  Somerset,  for  not  appearing  before 
John  Prysot  and  his  fellows,  justices  of  the  Bench  of  the  late  king, 
to  answer  Richard  Benyll  of  London,  '  skynner,'  touching  a  debt 
of  465.  M.  William  Haddon,  '  gentilman,'  touching  a  debt  of  14/. 
and  Henry  Bourghchiere,  viscount  Bourghchiere,  and  Thomas 
Ryngeston  touching  a  debt  of  43/.  and  before  the  justices  of  the 
Bench  of  the  present  king  to  answer  Tiiomas  Morton  touching  u  debt 
of,  15/.  13*.  4</.  London. 

William  Chapman  late  of  Asshewell,  co.  Hertford,  '  harbour,'  for  not 
appearing  before  the  king  to  answer  Richard  Touker  touching  a 
trespass.  Hertford. 

Stephen  Wyard  of  Nowebury  alias  late  of  Neubery,  co.  Berks, '  tanner,' 
and  Thomas  Robyns  of  Newebury,  '  husbondman,'  for  not  appearing 
before  the  justices  of  the  Bench  to  answer  John  Noreys  touching  a 
debt  of  40/.  Middlesex. 

Thomas  Mirfield  lute  of  Stanelay,  co.  York,  clerk,  for  not  appearing 
to  answer  William  Gascoigne,  knight,  touching  a  debt  of  10/. 

York. 

John  Baker  late  of  Wyndam,  co.  Norfolk,  'husbondman,'  for  not 
.ippearing  before  John  Prysot  and  his  fellows,  justices  of  the  Bench 
of  the  late  king,  to  answer  William  Beaufitz,  citizen  of  London, 
touching  a  debt  of  40/.  London. 

John  Barbour  late  of  Hamerton,  co.  Huntingdon,  'smyth,'  for  not 
appearing  before  the  justices  of  the  Bench  to  answer  a  plea  that  he 
render  405:.  to  William  Chambre  and  Elizabeth  his  wife,  late  the  wife 
of  William  Aldewyncle,  escpiire.  Northampton. 

Henry  Hunston  late  of  Honyng,  co.  Norfolk,  '  husbondman,'  for  not 
appearing  before  John  Prisot  and  his  fellows,  justices  of  the  Bench 
of  the  late  king,  to  answer  Thomas  Hodges,  citizen  and  '  loder '  of 
Norwich,  touching  a  debt  of  4/.  6s.  8c?.  Norwich. 

Thomas  Cabowe  of  Little  Waldyngfeld,  co.  SufPolk,  '  husbondman,' for 
not  appearing  before  the  justices  of  the  Bench  to  answer  John 
Appylton  touching  a  debt  of  6/.  Suffolk. 


9  EDWAP.D  Part  I. 


145 


Membrane  2? — cont. 
Robert  Waide  1  .te  of  Alsputli,  co.  Warwick,  cl.aplain,  foi-  not  appearing 
when  sutd  with  Jolin  Rcotell  late   of   ^lerydeii,  co.  WarMJck, 
'  o-iteler,'  to  answer  John  Coryngbam,  chaplain,  touching  a  trespai^s. 

Middlesex. 


Mem  BRA  SE  22. 

.John  Sharp  late  of  Rupge,  co.  Hertford,  '  husbondman,'  for  not 
appearing  before  the  king  to  answer  William  Grene  touching  a 
trespass.  Middlesex. 

William  Dent  late  of  Selby,  co.  York,  *  harpour,'  for  not  appearing 
before  the  justices  of  the  Bench  when  sued  with  Thomas  Hall  late 
of  Lenerton,  co.  York,  '  gentilnian,'  Richiiril  Hall  late  of  Lencrton, 
'genlilman,'  John  Hall  late  of  Lenerton,  'gentilman,'  Robert 
Forster  late  of  Byrkyn,  co.  York,  <diaplain,  John  Halele  late  of 
Milforth  by  Sliirbourn  in  Ehnet,  co.  York,  '  yoman,'  Robert  Halele 
late  of  Milforth,  '  yoinan,' John  Wilbai  n  late  of  Birkyn,  co.  York, 
'  yoman,' and  I'eter  Hall  late  of  Lenerton,  *  gcntihnan,'  to  answer 
John,  abbot  of  the  monastery  of  St.  German,  Selby,  touching  i\ 
trespass.  York. 

Willinm  Shire  of  Podennck,  co.  Cornwa'.l,  '  g  ildsmyfh,'  for  not 
a[)[)earing  before  John  Prjsot  and  his  lellows,  justices  of  the  Bench 
of  the  late  king,  to  answer  Walter  Brydwode  touciiing  a  dtbt  of  45s. 

Devon. 

Richard  Kymbear  of  the  parish  of  St.  Stephen  by  Saltayssli,  co. 
Cornwall,  *  gontilman,'  alias  of  Saltayssh,  for  not  appearing  before 
the  justices  of  the  Bench  to  answer  the  warden  or  dean  an<l  canons 
of  the  college  of  St.  George  within  the  castle  of  Wyndesoic  touching 
a  debt  of  100/.  Mid.!le--ex. 

John  Hynde  of  Snarston,  co.  Leicester,  '  iiusbondman,'  for  not 
appearing  before  John  Prysot  and  his  fellows,  justices  of  the  Bench 
of  the  late  king,  when  sued  with  Henry  atte  Halle  of  Oveiton, 
CO.  Leicester,  '  gentilman,'  John  York  of  Odilyston,  co.  Leicester, 
'  hu.sbondman,'  and  Robert  Gi.lorde  of  Chilyngion,  co.  Stall'ord, 
esquire,  to  answer  Thomas  Burdet,  e.squirc,  touching  a  tresjias-. 

Leicester. 

Walter  Burnard  of  St.  Germane,  co.  Cornwall,  'husbondman,'  for  not 
appearing  before  the  king  to  answer  William  Ad;ini  fcuching  a 
trespass.  Cornwall. 

Edward  Sprengeaux  of  Claydon,  co.  Buckingham,  '  gentilman,'  for  not 
a[)pearing  belore  Richard  Iseuton  niid  his  fellov\s,  justices  of  the 
Bench  ot  the  late  king,  to  answer  Tlionias  Gay,  citizen  and  tailor  of 
Loudon,  touching  a  debt  of  -12*.  London. 

John  Goldsmyth  late  of  Yeldyng,  co.  Kent,  '  Iiusbondman,' for  not 
ajipearing  before  John  Pry.sot  and  his  fellows,  justicis  of  the  Bench 
of  the  late  king,  to  answer  David  Selly  touching  a  debt  of  100.*. 

Middlesex. 

Robert  Dexter  of  London,  chaplain,  for  not  appearing  before  Robert 
Danby  and  his  fellows,  justices  of  the  IJeiich,  to  answer  William 
Cliadworth,  enquire,  and  Kichaid  Stratford,  ef(pn"rc,  touching  a  debt 
of  5/.  Mi  Idle.-^ex. 

K 


146 


CALENDAR  OF  PATENT  ROLLS. 


1469. 

July  6. 
Westminster. 


June  25. 
Westminster. 

July  4. 

AVestminster. 


July  9. 
Wes-tn-.inster. 


July  10. 
Westminster. 


Oct.  18. 

Vrestminster. 

Oct.  25. 
Westminster. 

Oct.  19. 
Westminster. 


Oct.  9. 
Westminster. 


Oct.  8. 
Westminster. 


Nov.  8. 

Westminsler. 


Nov.  20. 

Westminster 


Membrane  77 — cont. 
Ri.chard  Calvenl  late  of  Nonraonklon,  co.  York,  *  yoinan,'  for  net 
.appearing  before  the  justices  of  the  l?ench  to  answer  Robert  Ughtred, 
knight,  touching  a  debt  of  10/.  York. 

.John  Milne  of  Eyham,  co.  Derby,  chaplain,  for  not  aopearing  to  answer 
Nicholas  Hill  of  Folowe  and  John  Hill  of  Folowe  touching  a  debt 
of  12/.  Derby. 

John  Farys,  late  vicar  of  the  parish  church  of  Brodehantcn  or  Ilrodc- 
henton,  co.  Wilts,  for  not  appearing  to  answer  Master  Andrew  Hul>, 
late  keeper  of  the  privy  stal  of  the  late  kine,  and  Richard  Weston 
touching  a  debt  of  40/.  "VVihs. 

Roger  Guune  late  of  Itryngham,  co.  Norfolk,  clerk,  alias  chaplain,  for  not 
appearing  to  answer  a  plea  that  he  render  40.v.  to  Geoffrey  Spirlyng, 
executor  to  the  will  of  Stej)hen  Pyke,  late  parson  of  the  church  of 
Coldanger,  co.  Essex.  Norfolk. 

William  Bray  late  of  Abyndon,  co.  Berks,  *  yoman,'  alias  '  chapman,' 
for  not  appearing  to  answer  Richard  Bulstrete,  '  gentilman,'  touching 
a  debt  of  'All.  19s.  lOr/.,  and  to  answer  a  plea  that  he  render  1G0«.  to 
John  Hauke,  executor  of  the  will  of  Richard  Hattar  late  of  Bristol, 
merchant.  London  and  Biistol. 

Henry  Copley  late  of  Wydeford,  co.  Hertford,  chaplain,  for  not 
appearing  to  answer  John  Foston,  'gentilman,'  touching  a  debt 
of  4/.  Middlesex. 

Thomas  Holmes  of  Leke  in  Holaiid,  co.  Lincoln,  chaplain,  for  not 
appearing  to  answer  Robert  Robertson  touching  a  trespass. 

Leicester. 

William  Snayth  late  of  London,  *  gentilman,'  for  not  ai)pearing  before 
•John  I'rys  )t  and  his  fellows,  justices  of  the  Bench  of  the  late  king, 
to  answer  John  Manyngham  alias  Mannyngham,  escpiire,  touciiing  a 
<lebt  of  40*.  London. 

Ralph  Carell  late  of  Hokewold,  co.  Norfolk,  '  gentilman,'  for  not 
appearing  before  the  justices  of  the  Bench  to  answer  a  plea  that  he 
render  his  account  to  James  Arblaster,  esquire,  for  the  time  when  he 
was  his  receiver.  Suffolk. 

Robert  Knyght  late  of  Yeldyng,  co.  Kent,  '  smyth,'  for  not  appearing 
to  answer  Henry  Nevylle,  citizen  and  '  iremonger '  of  London, 
touching  a  debt  of  4/.  16s.  London. 

William  Byllyngdon  or  Billyngdon  late  of  Mokkyng  or  Mukyng,  o,o. 
Essex,  '  gentilman,' for  not  ajjpearing  before  John  Prysot  and  his 
f(  Hows,  justices  rf  the  Bench  of  the  late  king,  to  answer  a  plea  that 
he  render  100/.  to  Richard  Payn,  citizen  and  '  draper  '  of  London, 
and  Thomas  Gylmyn,  citizen  and  grocer  of  London,  executors  of 
the  will  of  Thomas  Hawekyn  alias  Hawkyn,  late  citizen  and  grocer 
of  London,  and  George  Irlond  and  Margaret  his  wife,  late  the  wife 
of  Thomas  Havvkyn,  their  co-executrix,  and  before  the  justices  of  the 
Bench  of  the  present  king  to  answer  I'hilip  Mali)as,  citizen  and 
mercer  of  London,  Stephen  Morys,  Richard  Bedford  and  Thomas 
Gilmyn,  grocer  of  London,  touching  debts  of  48/.,  46s.  Sd.,  20  marks 
and  80/.  respectively.  Surrey,  Middlesex,  and  London. 

William  Calverhull  late  of  Wynchestre,  co.  Southampton,  clerk,  for 
not  appearing  before  the  justices  of  the  Bench  to  answer  Thomas 
Batter,  draper,  and  William  Wolston,  *  brasyer,'  citizens  of  London, 
tou!  hing  a  debt  of  20  marks.  London. 


9  EDWARD  IV.— Part  I. 


147 


1469.  Membrane  22 — cont. 

"Sex.  20.  John  Byrd  of  Walden,  co.  Essex,  •  chapman,'  for  not  appearing  before 

Wesiminster.  John  Prynot  and  liis  fellows,  justices  of  the  Bench  of  the  late  king, 

to  answer  Roljcrt  Eurley  of  London,  mercer,  toucliing  a  debt  of  4Ci. 

Londou. 

Oct  13.  John  Stede  late  of  Colchcstie,  co.  E.'^sex,  'harbour,'  for  not  appearing 

Wustiiiinster.  before  the  justices  of  tlie  liench  to  answer  Richard  Turnaunt  of 

London,  '  gentilman,'  touching  a  debt  of  37/.  2*.  Middlesex. 

Oct.  18.  Edmund  Mei  ssh  late  of  Fennystaunton,  co.  Huntingdon,  '  yoman,'  for 

Westminster.  not  appe<iring  to  answer  the  dean  and  canons  of  the  king's  free  chapel 

of  St.  Stephen  within  his  pahice  of  Westminster  touching  a  debt 
of  34/.  Middlesex. 

Oct.  16.  Bartholomew  Godbed  of  Cambrygge,  co.  Tambrygge,  '  chaundeler,'  for 

Westminster.  not  appearing  before  Richard  Nenton  and  his  fellows,  justices  of  the 

Bench  of  the  hitcj  king,  to  answer  Stephen  Brown  and  Rose  his  wife 
touching  u  debi  of  60.9.  London. 

Nov.  7.  Richard  More  late  of  Carlille,  co.  Cumberland,  merchant,  for  not 

W«stminst«r.  appearing  before  the  justices  of  the  Bench  to  answer  a  plea  that  he 

render  9  marks  to  John  Mason  and  Margaret  his  wife,  late  the  wife 
of  John  Elwold,  citizen  and  'hurcr'  of  London,  and  administratrix 
of  his  goods.  London. 

Nov.  7.  .John  Bailly  late  of  Sudl)urgh,  co.  Northampton,  '  hnsbor.dman,'  for 

Westminster.  not  appearing  when  sued  with  John  Stacy  late  of  Achirche,  co. 

Northampton,  '  iiusbondinan,'  to  answer  llenry  Grene,  estpiire, 
touching  a  trespas.-*. 

MSilBRANE  21. 

Nov.  8.  John  Gatton  late  of  Mockyng,  co.  Essex, '  gentilman,'  for  not  appearing 

Westminster.  to  answer  Thonnis  Gilmyn,  groc*'r  of  London,  and  Philip  Malpas, 

citizen  and  mercer  of  London,  touching  debts  of  ^JO/.  and  lb/, 
respectively.  Londou. 

Nov.  27.  John  Hill  of  Hnrnham,  co.  Buckingham,  '  bocher,'  lor  not  a|)p-.>aring  to 

Westminster.  answer  John  Colman,  citizen  and  grocer  of  London,  touching  a  debt 

of  6/.  London. 
Edmund  Sharpe  late  of  Steventon,  co.  Berks, '  bocher,'  for  not  appearing 
to  answer  Robert  Tooke,  citizen  and  '  iremonger'  of  London,  alias 
'  nnirchaunt,'  touching  a  debt  of  50«.  London. 

Nov.  27.  Nicholas  Welton  bite  of  Westdrayton,  co.  Berks,  'bocher,'  for  not 

Westminster.  appearing  to  answer  Robert  Tuoke,  citizen  and  '  iremonger  '  of 

London,  touching  a  debt  of  70*.  London. 

Nov.  28.  Nicholas  Chainpeneys  late  of  Strode,  co.  Kent,  '  gentilman,'  for  not 

Westminster.  appearing  to  answer  John  Porter  of  London,  *  harbour,'  touching  a 

debt  of  16/.  17*.  London. 

1470. 

Jan.  3.  Riciiard  Gynner  late  of  Southmorlon,  co.  Berks,  '  hnsboridmau,'  fur  not 

Westminster.  ap|)earing  to  answer  .John  Fortey  and  William  Cliedworth  touching 

a  debt  of  40/.  Glom^pster. 

•Jan.  25.  John  Cornemonger  of  Cicestre,  co.  Sussex,  '  husl)ondman,'  for  not 

Westminster.  appearing  to  answer  Richard  More,  esquiie,  touching  a  debt  of  8/. 

Berks. 

Jan.  24.  Robert  Haynes  of  Bersted,  co.  Kent,  '  yoinan,'  for  not  appearing  to 

Weitniinster.  answer  William  Overton,  esquire,  touching  a  debt  of  53s.  4</. 

Ycrk. 
K  2 


148 


CALENDAR  OF  PATKM"  ROLLS. 


1470. 

Jan.  26. 
Westminster. 

Jan.  2G. 

TVcstmins-ter. 


1469. 

Oct.  9. 

Westminster. 


1470. 

Jan.  23. 
W^estminster. 


Jan.  26. 

Westminster. 


Jan.  28. 

Westminster. 


Jan.  26. 

Westminster. 


Jan.  28. 

Westminster. 


Feb.  3. 
^\'estminste^. 


Feb,  {;\ 
Westminster. 


Feb.  9. 
Wostminstcr. 


Membrane  21 — cont. 
Kicliard  Bedell  late  of  Sliorne,  co.  Kent,  '  liusbondman,'  for  not 
appearing  to  answer  John  Jordan  touching  a  debt  of  405.  Kent. 

Thomas  Markeham  late  of  TopclyfF,  oo.  Yoik,  'chaplain,'  for  not 
appealing  to  answer  a  plea  that  he  render  40/.  to  Margaret  late  the 
■wife  of  llobert  Wright,  executrix  of  the  will  of  Robert  Wright  late 
of  Little  Drjffeld,  lather  and  executor  of  the  will  of  John  Wright 
late  of  Little  Driffeld,  'joman.'^  York, 

Thomas  MeUnirne  of  Danby  Wiske,  oo.  York,  clerk,  for  not 
appearing  before  .John  Prysot  and  his  fellows,  justices  of  the  Uencb 
ol  tlie  late  king,  to  answer  a  plea  that  he  render  his  account  to  .lohn 
Marcliall,  clerk,  for  the  time  when  he  was  his  bailiff  in  VVheldryk 
and  his  receiver,  and  before  the  justices  of  the  Bench  of  the  present 
king  to  answer  John  Botlie,  bishop  of  Exeter,  touching  two  debts  of 
10/.  York  and  Middlesex, 

John  Alan  late  of  Barnby  on  Dun,  co.  York,  the  younger,  '  husbond- 
man,'  for  not  appearing  before  the  king  to  answer  John  Grene 
touching  a  trespass.  Y»)rk. 

Richard  Roberdes  late  of  Hereford,  *  hosteler,'  for  not  appearing 
before  the  justices  of  the  Bench  to  answer  John  Barton,  mayor  of 
Hereford,  touching  a  debt  of  40/.  Middlesex, 

Walter  Stotfold  late  of  Bedford,  co.  Bedford,  'gentilman,'  alias  of  the 
county  of  Northampton,  for  not  appearing  to  answer  a  plea  that  he 
render  16/.  to  Mai  garet  Hemmyng,  executrix  ol  the  will  of  Thomas 
Flemmyng.  London. 

John  Kyng  of  Trydy,  co.  Somerset,  '  husbondman,'  for  not  appearing^ 
before  John  Prysot  and  his  fellows,  justices  of  the  Bench  of  the  late 
king,  to  answer  William  Bonvyle,  knight,  touchinga  debt  of  6/.  9*.  Id, 

Somerset, 

.Tolin  Exil  of  Westbern  by  Upfon  Nobil,  co.  Somerset,  '  husbondman,' 
for  not  appearing  before  the  justices  of  the  Bench  to  answer  William 
GrefFey  and  Richard  Playstowe  touching  a  debt  of  )7/.  10*. 

London. 

William  Gyges  of  Allerton  in  Shirwode,  co.  Nottingham,  chaplain,  for 
not  appearing  to  answer  John  Clerk  touching  a  trespass. 

Nottingham. 

John  Norham  late  of  Neubyggyng,  co.  W^estnioreland,  clerk,  for  not 
appearing  to  answer  a  plea  that  he  render  his  account  to  William 
Nicholson,  clerk,  for  the  time  when  he  was  his  receiver. 

Westmoreland, 

John  Bra deford  late  of  Langelodc,  co.  Somerset,  'husbondman,'  for 
not  appearing  to  answer  William  Salter  touching  a  debt  of  40s. 

Devon. 

Robert  Avelyn  late  of  Warfeld,  co.  Berks,  'husbondman,'  for  not 
appearing  to  answer  Robert  Tooke,  citizen  and  'iremonger'  of 
Loudon,  touching  a  debt  of  40s.  London. 

William  Serteyn  late  of  Southmollon,  co.  Devon,  '  frankeleyn,'  for  not 
appearing  to  answer  John  Creche  touching  a  trespass  committed  by 
hint  and  John  Harewode  late  of  Estluccombe,  co.  Devon, '  frankeleyn.' 

Somerset. 


9  EDWARD  IV.— Part  I. 


149 


1470.  Membrane  21 — cont. 

fFeb.  7.  Jolin  Sliule  late  of  Overdoiide.swell,  co.  Gloiico>ter,  '  l.usSon  Imxn,'  for 

Westminster.  not  appealing  to  answer  William  Garno  i  t(  u filing  a  debt  of  lUO.f. 

Gloucester. 

Feb.  5.  Edmund  Olyve  late  of  Thimyltliorp,  co.  Norfolk,  tlie  younger,  '  lius- 

Westminster.  bondmmi,'  and  Margiiret  liis  wife,  executrix  of  the  will  of  .John 

Parke  late  of  TluMiiyltliorp,  '  husbondniaii,'  for  not  appe;uing  to 
answer  a  plea  that  they  ren<ler  !)  maiks  6*.  8 J.  to  William  Parke  of 
Foxle.  Norfolk. 

Jan.  23.  John  BulK^sdon  late  of  Neiiton  Seyntlo,  co.  Somerset,  esquire,  alias 

Westaiintter.  late  of  Bremlej,  co.  Soutliainjiton,  for  not  appearing  to  answer  John 

Gaywode  touching  a  dc  bt  of  tJ/.  Bristol. 

Philip  Piikke  late  of  Erlham,  co.  Norfolk,  clerk,  rt//a5  l.ite  of  Norwich, 
chiiplain,  alias  of  London,  for  not  a[)pearing  to  answer  John  lironn 
touching  a  debt  of  4  marks.  Norwich. 
Feb.  10.  William  Baion  late  of  E^thanyfeld,  co.  Essex,  '  hushondman,'  for  not 

"Westminster.  appearing  to  answer  Meniy  Yc-ly,  citizen  nnd  brewer  of  Londun, 

touching  a  debt  of  40*.  London. 
Fel).  12.  William  Thomas  of   Bere,  co.  Devon,  '  laborer,'  for  not  appearing 

Westminster.  before  .John  Prysot  and  his  fellows,  jiisMci^s  of  the  iiencli  of  the  late 

king,  to  answer  a  plea  tliat  he  render  405.  to  Uichard  Leveiniore  the 
elder,  executor  cf  the  will  of  Hugh  Leverinoie.  Devim. 

Feb.  12.  John  Thomas  of  B(!re  the  younger,  '  laborer,'  for  the  same.  ],'evon. 

Westminster. 

Feb.  11.  Henry  Brende  bito  of  Bishop's  Lenn,  co.  Norfolk,  '  yoinan,'  for  not 

Westminster.  r.ppea  ing  before  the  justices   of  the   Bench   to  answer  Geoffrey 

Feldyng,  mercer  and  late  alderman  of  London,  touching  a  delit  <>t  12/. 

Nt^rfolk. 

Feb.  6.  Roger  Causy  of  Bishop's  Tautoii,  co.  Devon,  '  yom;in,'  ami  Ag'ies  his 

Wrstmiiister.  wife,  late  the  wife  of  Adam  Kenier,  for  not  appearing  to  answer 

Thomas  Gay  the  cliler  touching  a  debt  of  \()s.  I.,ondon. 

Feb.  12,  Peter  (lerveys  late  of  Banathekk  by  Merthyn,  co.  Cornwall,  'geniil- 

Westrainster.  man,'  for  not  appearing  to  auawer  Henry  Gyllvot  touehing  a  debt  of 

20/.  '  .Middlesex. 

Feb.  13.  William  Ely  ver  late  of  Shropham  rt/ms  late  of  llekynghale  by  Botesdale, 

Westminstor.  CO.  Suffolk,  'yoman,'  olios   William  01yv(!r  late  of  Attilbur-h,  co. 

Norfolk,  r///'a*  William  Oliver  late  of  Bury  St.  Ldmunds,  to.  Suffolk, 
'  .'•poner,' for  not  appearing  before  the  ju.-t ices  of  the  Bench  of  the 
late  king  to  answer  Nicholas  Neweman,  citizen  ol  Norwich,  '  drapere,' 
touching  a  debt  of  405.  and  William  Pryce  toi  ching  a  trespass,  and 
before  the  justices  of  the  Bench  of  the  present  kir.g  to  answer 
Robert  Burgeys  of  Bury  St.  Edmunds,  'harbour,'  und  Thon;a9 
Olyver  touching  debts  of  -)/.        and  14/.  l().v.  8c/.  respectively. 

Norwich,  Norfolk,  and  SufTolk, 


1469.  MBMBRjys  20. 

March  G.  On  IG  Septend)er,  5  Edward  IV.  the  king  willed  and  des-iied  hi-!  .'■erTant 
Westminster.  Hugh  Brice,  deputy  to  William,  lord  Hastynges,  in  his  office  of  master  and 
worker  of  the  king's  moneys  of  cold  and  silver  and  keeper  of  the  mints 
and  exchanges  in  the  Tower  of  Loudon,  the  realm  of  England  anil  the 
town  of  Calais,  to  take  upon  him  the  occupation  and  keei)ing  of  the  mints 
and  exchanges  aforesaid  and,  whereas  before  that  day  theie  was  paid  at  the 
mints  of  Loudi)n,  York,  Coventry,  Norwich  anu  Bristol  to  every  person 


150 


CALENDAR  OF  PATENT  ROLLS. 


1 4(jO,  Membrane  20— cont. 

thiit  Liougbt  gold  or  silver  2il.  ds.  2  I.  and  33s.  for  every  pound  wein;lit  of 
tiie  Tower  oi  gold  and  silver  respectively  by  tale,  after  that  day  he  was  to 
receive  by  weight  and  deliver  by  the  same  weight  to  every  person  bringing 
gold  or  silvtr  to  the  Tower  aforesaid  or  the  mints  of  York  and  Bristol  until 
Slichaelmas,  6  Kdward  IV.  and  to  take  no  more  for  coinage  than  20s.  10c?. 
and  4s.  ijd.  of  every  pound  of  Tower  weiglit  of  gold  and  silver  respectively, 
and  to  make  money:*  of  gold  and  silvei-  accoiding  to  the  indenture  betwceu 
the  king  and  the  said  lord  Ilastynges,  and,  whereas  before  the  said 
IG  September  old  nobles  and  all  gold  of  beyond  the  sea  called  '  masse  goold,' 
as  well  '  salutz '  as  other,  were  bought  at  no  cer  tainty  by  cause  of  their 
lack  of  weight  and  uncleaDness  but  soiuetinie  the  said  old  nobles  were  bought 
at  8s.  Ad.,  8s.  bd.,  8s.  Gt/.  and  8s.  %\d.  and  the  noble  weight  of  coins  b3\  ond 
the  sea  at  8s.  and  under  and  old  groals  and  silver  as  fine  as  old  groats  at 
2s.  lO^c/.  the  ounce  Troy,  he  was  to  pay  to  every  person  bringing  old  nobles 
of  just  weight  and  clean  or  any  goUi  in  mass  as  fine  to  the  mints  of  London, 
York  and  Bristol,  8s.  Grf  for  every  such  noble  or  noble's  weight  and  for 
other  gold  at  the  same  rate,  relniting  the  lack  of  fineness  and  weight,  and 
2s.  \  \d.  for  every  ounce  of  Troy  of  old  groals  or  silver  as  good  and  for 
other  silver  uncoined  at  the  same  rate,  rebating  the  lack  of  finenes.s,  and 
to  receive  coin-;  though  they  may  lack  in  fineness  if  they  do  not  thus  lack 
over  the  remedies  ordained,  and  because  divers  gold  of  beyond  the  fea  and 
pence  of  silver  made  of  long  time  |  ast  in  the  mints  of  York  and  Duresme 
and  other  places  of  the  realm  brought  to  tiie  king's  mints  and  exchanges  were 
not  so  good  in  fineness  as  the  king's  new  coins  or  those  of  Edward  III.  and 
Richard  II.  he  was  to  make  the  new  coins  of  gold  and  silver  as  good  in  fine- 
ness as  the  coins  of  Edward  III.  and  liichard  II.  and  the  three  Henrys,  and  to 
take  to  farm  of  the  king  the  casual  profits  by  way  of  emptions,  remedies  or 
otherwise  of  all  the  mints  and  exchanges  aforesaiti,  paying  to  the  king  from  the 
said  IG  September  until  the  said  Michaelmas  600  marks  and  for  every  year 
after  300  marks,  saving  ta  the  king  the  right  to  discharge  hiui  of  the  farm, 
and  to  retain  140/.  yearly  for  the  occupying  of  the  exchanges  of  London 
and  the  wages  of  himself  and  iiis  servants  and  his  other  costs  and  charges. 
And  on  29  September,  6  Edward  IV.  the  king  abated  of  the  coinage  in  the 
mints  of  every  pound  of  Tower  weight  of  silver  and  desired  the 

said  Hugh  to  continue  his  occupation  as  above,  taking  for  coinage  20s.  lOf/. 
and  3s.  2d.  for  every  pound  of  I'ower  weight  of  gold  and  silver  respectively, 
and  paying  8s.  Gc?.  for  the  noble's  weight  of  gold  and  3s.  for  the  ounce  Troy 
of  silver.  And  on  29  September,  7  Edward  IV.  tne  king  abated  of  llie 
coinage  in  the  mints  6s.  \d  and  6(/.  of  every  pound  of  Tower  weight  of 
gold  and  silver  respectively,  and  desired  the  said  Hugh  to  continue  his 
occupation  as  above,  taking  fur  coinage  14s.  6c?.  and  2s.  8c?.  for  every 
pound  of  Tower  weight  of  gold  and  silver  respectively  and  paying  8s.  8rf. 
for  the  noble's  weight  of  gold,  and  r>s.  \d.  for  the  ounce  Ti'oy  of  silver. 
And  on  29  September  last  past  the  king  desired  the  said  Hugh  to 
continue  his  occupation  as  above  until  one  year  after  Christmas,  taking  for 
coinage  I4s.  6</.  and  2s.  8(Z.  as  above  and  paying  8s.  ^d.  for  the  noble's 
weight  of  gold  and  3?.  Id.  for  the  ounce  Troy  of  silver.  And  the  said 
Hugh  by  the  assent  of  the  said  loid  Hastynges  has  agreed  to  perform  and 
tulfil  these  covenants,  and  the  king  hereby  ratifies  and  confirms  ihem. 
English.  By  p.s. 

April  12.       Licence  for  the  alienation  in  mortmain  by  Kobert  Kirkeham,  clerk,  the 
Westminster,  dean,  and  the  canons  of  the  king's  free  chapel  of  St.  Stephen  witi)in  his 
palace  of  Westminster  of  a  yearly  peioion  or  rent  of  7  marks  from  all  their 
messuages,  gardens,  lands,  tenements  and  shops  in  the  town  of  Westminster 
called  'le  Newe  Rent '  situated  in  a  way,  lane  or  alley  lying  between  a  gate 
theirs  on  the  cast  to  another  gale  of  theirs  ou  the  west  to  John  Sewhall, 


9  EDWARD  IV.— Part  I. 


151 


1469.  Membrane  20 — cont. 

warden  of  the  college  of  vicars,  clerks  and  choristers  of  the  royal  chapel  of 

St.  Steplien  within  the  palace  of  Westminsier,  and  the  vicars',  clerk.s  and 

chori.sters  of  tiie  same  college.  By  p.s. 


DIembrane  IP. 

March  8.        Presentation  of  Joliu  r>aron,  chaplain  of  the  chantry  of  St.  Leonard, 
Westminster.  Ilungerford  Farlegh,  in  the  diocese  of  Bath  and  Wells,  to  the  church  of 
Ciiilton,  in  the  same  diocese,  on  an  exchange  of  benefices  with  .Simon 
15iilyngey. 

]March  6.  CJenend  p.rd'in  to  Edmund  Baker  late  of  St.  Edn)und  Bury,  co.  Suffolk, 
Westminster.  '  yomau,'  of  all  offences  committed  by  him  before  10  February  last.    By  p.s. 

March  7.       General  pardon  to  Oliver  Seynijohn  of  Makcscy,  co.  Northampton,  the 
Westminster,  elder,  esquire,  of  all  offences  committed  by  him  before  6  March  last  and  all 
fines,  debts  and  accounts  due  froua  him  to  the  king.  By  p.s. 

March  4.  Grant  to  the  king's  mother  Cecily,  duchess  of  York,  in  lieu  of  a  grant  to 
Westminster,  her  by  letters  patent  dated  1  June,  1  Edward  iV.  of  the  manor  of  Fodryng- 
hay,  CO.  Northampton,  all  her  estate  in  which  she  has  surrendered  to  the 
king  by  her  letters  patent  dated  8  February  laf't,  of  the  castle,  manor, 
lordship  and  honor  of  Bcrkhamstede,  the  borough  of  Herkhamstedc  and 
the  manor  and  lor(lslii|)  of  Chilternehuigeley  alias  Kyngeslanglev,  co. 
Hertford,  to  hold  for  life  from  Michaelmas  last  with  knights'  fees,  ailvowsons, 
wards,  marriages,  reliefs,  escheats,  views  of  frank-pledge,  courts  leet,  woods, 
jiarks,  warrens,  chaces,  stews,  fisheries,  fairs,  market.s,  hberties,  franchises, 
customs  and  other  appurtenances.  If  she  be  removed  in  any  M  ay  from  the 
.'^anie  she  shall  be  fully  recompensed  ;  and  the  king  acquits  her  of  all 
annuities  and  other  charges  on  the  same,  with  a  reservation  in  favour  oT 
Joiin  Pylkyngton,  esf]uire,  constable  of  tlie  castle  of  Berknamstede  and 
P'u  ker  of  the  park  there.  By  p.s. 

March  21.      Aj'pointmcnt  for  life  of  Master  John  Russell,  doctor  of  decrees,  a.-  secondary 
Westmiustei'.  in  tiie  office  of  the  privy  seal,  receiving  -JO/,  yearly  from  the  issues  of  tiic 
counties  of  I,ondon  and  jMiddlesex.  By  p.s. 

Aprils.        Appointment  for  life  of  the  king's  servant  Richard  Fowler  as  chancillor 
Dogmersfield.  of  the  Exchequer,  receiving  the  accustomed  fees  F,t  the  Exchequer  or  the 
receipt  of  tlie  Exchequer  with  all  rights,  profits  and  emoluments.       By  K. 

Vacated  and  cancelled  because  the  hituj  granted  the  said  ojfice  tit 
Thomas  Thwaytcs  for  life  by  other  letters  patent  on  11  August, 
1 1  Edtiard  1  V. 

April  15.       Grant  for  life  to  the  king's  servant  John  Mylsam,  one  cf  the  yeomen 
Westminster,  of  the  crown,  of  all  lands  within  the  hamlet  of  Berkhamsted,  co.  Hertford, 
of  the  yearly  value  of  5  marks  whicli  Robert  Martyn  lately  occujiied,  in  the 
king's  hands  by  reasou  of  an  act  in  Parliament  at  Westminster,  4  >.'o\  ember, 
1  Edward  IV.  By  K. 


Mem  BR  A. \E  18. 

March  21.  General  pardon  to  John  Wymondham  aiia.i  Wyndham  the  younger  of 
Westminster,  the  County  of  Norfolk,  escjuire.  By  K. 

March  20.       Licence  for  John  Marney,  knight,  aiul  Joan  his  wife  to  grant  two  parts 
Westminiiter.  of  the  manor  of  Kyngesey,  co.  Buckingham,  e.xcepting  an  acre  of  land  in 
Kyngesey,  and  two  parts  of  a  third  part  of  the  nuuior  of  Chepyng  Norton, 
CO.  Oxford,  excepting  an  acre  of  land  in  Cliepyng  Norton,  held  in  chief,  to 
Then. as  Mountgomery,  knight,  Thomas  Tyreil,  knight,  Louis  Fitzlowe.--, 


152 


CALENDAR  OF  PATENT  ROLLS. 


14G9. 


March  2-i. 
Westminster. 

March  13. 

Westminster. 


IMarch  27. 
Dogmeisfield 


March  24. 
lJogmer^field 


March  28. 
Dogmersfield 


March  24. 

Dogmersfield. 

March  28. 

Dogmersfield. 

March  29. 
^Dogmersfield. 


April  16. 
Westminster. 


Membrane  18 — cont. 

esquire,  Thomas  Cornwales,  William  Ligon,  e.squire,  Walter  Brokliampton, 
eiiquire,  John  Rous,  esquire,  and  John  Throktnei  ton,  esquire,  and  tlieir 
heirs.  For  6/.  paid  in  the  hanaper. 

General  pardon  to  William  Grymesby  of  Gryiuesby,  co.  Lincoln,  esquire, 
of  all  offences  committe  1  by  him  before  23  March.  By  p.s. 

Grant  for  life  to  the  king'.s  servitor  Thomas  Nesse  of  the  office  of  porter 
of  the  king's  castle  of  Wallyngford,  co.  Berks,  with  fees  as  in  the  times  of 
Kdward  111.  and  Richard  II.  from  tlie  issues  of  the  castle,  lordship  and 
manor  of  Wallyngford ;  in  lieu  of  a  like  grant  to  Hugh  Adams  by  letters 
patent  dated  16  June,  1  Edward  IV.  surrendered.  J^y  p.s. 

Vacated  by  surrender  and  cancelled  because  /he  hi  ig  granted  the  office 
to  fVilliaui  Logge  by  other  letters  patent  on  27  June,  10  Edimrd  IV. 

Grant,  for  10/.  paid  to  the  king,  to  Richard  Fowler  of  the  custody  of  six 
messuages,  200  acres  of  land,  20  acres  of  meadow,  30  acres  of  pasture  and 
20.«.  of  rent  in  Cherdesle,  Warmeston  and  Queynlon,  co.  Buckingham,  in  the 
king's  hands  during  the  minority  of  Nicholas  Bryghtwell  son  and  heir  of 
Walter  Bryghtwell  late  of  Cher  lesle  because  the  said  Walter  was  seised  in 
his  demesne  as  of  fee  of  the  said  messuages  and  other  premises,  held  in 
chief  as  of  the  honor  of  Wallingford  by  knight  service,  and  enfeoffed  John 
Baldewyn,  Thomas  Verdour,  William  Andrewe,  John  Fryday  and  Thomas 
Gourney  of  Halton  of  the  same  by  collusion  to  defraucl  the  king  of  the 
custody,  as  appears  by  an  inquisition  taken  b  'fore  Thomas  Biilyug  ihe 
younger,  escheator  in  the  county  of  Buckingham,  to  hold  during  the  minority 
of  the  heir  witli  his  marriage  without  disparagement  and  so  from  heii-  to 
Tieir.  By  bill  of  the  trea.iurer. 

Grant  to  Antony  Widewile,  lord  of  Scales  and  Nn-ellez,  and  Elizabeth 
his  wife  of  llie  custody  during  minority  of  Robert  Geddiug,  sou  and  heir  of 
.7ohn  Geddiug,  tenant  in  chief  by  knight  service,  with  his  marriage  without 
disparagement;  and  grant  to  them  also  during  his  minority  of  20  marks 
yearly  for  his  sustenance  and  s-tudy  from  the  issues  of  the  manor  of  Great 
Thcrlowe,  co.  Sussex  (rectiu^  Suffolk),  in  the  king's  hands  by  reason  of  his 
minority.  By  p.s. 

Grant  for  life  to  John  Grevile,  knight,  of  the  offices  of  rider  of  the  king's 
forest  of  Brandon  and  master  of  the  king's  game  within  his  parks  of 
Fastern,  co.  Wilts,  with  the  accustomed  fees  from  the  issues  of  the  county 
of  Wilts,  whensoever  they  shall  come  into  the  king's  hands  by  the  death  of 
John  Russell,  esquire,  who  has  them  for  life  by  letters  patent,  or  by  his 
surrender  or  otherwise.  By  p.s.  [2766-3 

Pardon  to  Gilbert  Debenham,  knight,  and  Katharine  late  the  wife  of 
William  Zouche,  knight,  tenant  in  chief,  of  their  trespass  in  inter- 
marrying without  licence.  By  p.s. 

General  pardon  to  Roger  Puleston  of  Gorthonbree,  co.  Flint,  '  gentilinan,' 
alias  Roger  ap  John,  esciuire,  of  all  offences  committed  by  him  before 
24  March.  By  p.s. 

General  parilon  to  Oliver  Manyngham  late  of  London,  'gentilman,'  alias 
Oliver  Maunynggam  late  of  York,  alius  late  of  Stoke  Pogeys,  co.  Bucking- 
ham, of  all  offences  committed  by  him  before  24  March  and  all  fines,  debts 
and  accounts  due  from  him  to  the  king.  By  p.s. 

The  like  to  Eleanor,  lady  Hunger'ord  and  Molyus,  late  the  wife  of 
Robert  Huugerford,  knight,  alias  Eleanor  the  wife  of  Oliver  Mannyngham. 

By  p.s. 

Exemplification,  at  tlu  request  of  Geoffrey  Lewys,  chaplain,  of  the  tenor 
of  the  enrolment  of  letters  patent  dated  29  Marcli,  4  {sic)  Edward  IV. 


9  EDWARD  IV.-Part  I. 


153 


14(39.  Membrane  18 — cont. 

{^ranting  to  liiin  for  life  a  yearly  pension  of  12  (s/c)  marks  from  the  issues 
of  the  i\ing's  mills  of  Di-ssertlie  aud  Peutre,  co.  Flint.  Tiiese  ieitsrs  have 
been  cjisually  lost,  as  he  has  taken  oath  in  Chancery,  and  will  be  surrendered 
if  found. 


Membrane  17. 


April  24.  Licence  for  Walter  Ilaliday,  marshal,  John  Cliff,  Robert  Marshalle, 
Westminster.  Thomas  Grene,  Thomas  Calthorn,  William  Cliff,  William  Cristean  and 
William  Kyiiesliam,  the  kinj^'s  minstrels,  to  establish,  continue  and  augment 
a  fraternity  or  perpetual  gild,  which  the  brethren  and  sisters  of  tlie  fraternity 
of  n.instrels  of  the  realm  erected  in  time.*  ])ast,  that  tliey  may  pray  for  the 
good  estate  of  the  king  and  his  consort  Elizabeth,  (lueen  of  l^ngland,  and 
for  their  souls  after  death  and  the  soul  of  the  king's  father  Richard,  late 
duke  of  York,  in  the  chapel  of  St.  Mary  within  the  cathedral  church  of 
St.  Paul,  London,  and  the  king's  free  chapel  of  St.  Antony  in  the  same  city. 
'J'hey  shall  a<lmit  other  persons,  men  and  women,  to  the  fraternity',  and 
shall  form  one  body  and  perpetual  community,  and  ^hall  elect  from  them- 
selves a  marshal  to  remain  in  oHice  for  lite  and  two  wardenvS  yearly  for  the 
governance  of  the  fraternity,  and  ,>-hall  make  ordinances  for  the  governance 
of  the  fraternity,  and  shall  have  the  supervision  of  the  ai  t  of  minstrels, 
except  ill  the  coimty  of  Chester,  and  shall  nominate  the  king's  min?tre]."», 
subject  to  the  royal  assent.    [^FcederaJ]  \\y  p.s. 

April  24.  Licence  for  the  alienation  in  mortmain  by  the  king's  kinsmen  Richard 
Westminster.  Neville,  earl  of  Warwick  and  Salisbury,  and  Anne,  countess  of  Warwick, 
l)is  consort,  to  the  dean  and  chapter  of  the  collegiate  church  of  St.  Mary, 
Warwick,  of  their  manors  of  Bathekyngton  and  Wolverdyngton  and  all 
oiher  lands,  rents,  reversions  and  servic(!s  in  IJathekyngton  and  Wolver- 
dyngton, CO.  Warwick,  held  in  chief,  three  tenements  in  W'arrcwyk  late  of 
William  Ilopkyns  lying  by  the  cemetery  of  the  church  of  St.  Mary  the 
Virgin  there  and  a  garden  in  Warrewik  late  of  William  Aleyn  lying  on 
the  soutii  ."ide  of  a  lane  leading  from  the  said  cemetery  to  '  Seynt  .Mary 
Bnttes  '  and  <of  the  same  length  as  the  lane,  not  held  in  chief,  a  toff,  half 
a  v'rgate  of  land,  2  acres  of  meadow,  18*.  rent  of  assise  and  a  rent  of  two 
capons  yearly  in  the  hamlets  of  Weston  and  Moseley,  co.  Leicestei,  parcel 
of  the  said  manor  of  Wolverdyngton,  held  in  chief,  and  their  manor  of 
I'reston  Capes,  co.  Northami)lon,  and  all  other  lands,  rents,  reversions  and 
services  in  Preslon  aforesaid  and  the  handets  of  the  same,  lieM  in  chief, 
extended  at  36/.  4*.  AJ.,  as  appears  by  inquisitions  taken  before  the 
cscheators  in  the  counties  of  Warwick,  Leicester  and  Northampton,  to  the 
value  of  38/.  in  part  satisfaction  of  a  licence  by  letters  patent  dated  1  June, 
3  Edward  IV. 


May  3. 
Westminster 


General  pardon  to  William  Stoke  late  of  Warmyngton,  co.  Northampton, 
knight,  alias  William  Stock  of  Temple  Newesom,  co.  York,  alias  late  of 
York,  of  all  offences  committed  by  him  before  1  May.  Uy  p.s. 

May  4.  The  like  to  Peter  Carpenter  late  of  Dorkyng,  co.  Surrey,  '  bouchier,'  of 
Westminster,  all  offences  committed  by  him  befoie  5  April  last.  By  p.s. 


jMbmbranb  16. 

March  8.       By  letters  patent  dated  28  February,  5  Edward  IV.  the  king  granted 
Westminster,  licence  to  John  Crosby  of  London,  '  grocer,'  or  his  executors  after  his 
dec(!ase  or  their  factors  or  attorneys  to  ship  75  sacks  of  wool  in  the  ports 
of  London,  Sandwich  and  Souibampton  and  take  them  to  foreign  parts  by 
the  straits  of  Marrok  quit  of  customs  and  subsidies,  and  accoidiugly  on 


154 


CALENDAR  OF  PATENT  ROLLS. 


1  4G9.  Membrane  16 — cont. 

21  March,  7  Edward  IV,  in  tlic  port  of  Southampton  the  said  John  shipped 
60  sacdcs  of  wool  in  a  galley  of  which  Anj^elus  Boon  of  la  Monte  was 
owner  by  indentures  between  himself  and  Richard  Assh  and  Thomas  Roo, 
then  collectors  of  the  customs  and  subsidies  in  the  said  port,  without 
payment  of  customs  or  subsidies,  but  Richard,  earl  of  Ryvers,  then  treasurer 
of  England,  induced  him  to  forego  the  benefit  of  the  letters  putent  and  to 
pay  tlie  sum  of  IGO/.  for  the  customs  and  subsidies  to  the  collectors, 
promising  that  he  should  ship  other  wools  quit  of  customs  and  snbsidies, 
and  he  agreed  and  paid  the  said  160/.,  and  afterwards  on  16  September, 
7  Edward  IV.  by  appointment  of  the  said  earl  in  the  said  port  i)y  Alan  de 
Monte  Ferrato,  merchant,  by  pretext  of  letters  patent  of  the  king  to  the 
latter,  56|  sacks  and  24  cloves  of  wool  in  118  'pokys'  of  the  goods  of  the 
said  John  in  recompense  of  the  shipment  of  the  said  60  sacks  were  shipped 
in  a  carrack  of  which  Anthony  Boroe  was  owner  to  be  taken  to  foreign  parts 
quit  of  customs  and  subsidies,  but  unfortunately  tiiese  with  other  merchan- 
dise foundered  with  the  carrack  at  sea.  Accordingly,  in  consideration  of 
the  loss  sustained  by  the  said  John  and  for  200/.  paid  by  him  at  the  receipt 
of  the  Exchequer  on  19  May,  6  Edward  IV.  representing  the  sum  of  the 
customs  and  subsidies  due  to  the  king  on  7o  sacks  of  wool  at  the  rate  of 
4  marks  on  each  sack,  and  because  he  has  surrendered  the  said  letters 
patent,  the  king  hereby  grants  licence  for  him  or  his  executors  alter  his 
decease  or  their  factors  or  attorneys  to  ship  64  sacks  of  wool  as  above  quit 
of  cu.itoms  and  subsidies.  By  p.s. 

April  12.  Grant  for  life  to  the  king's  kinsman  William  Herbert,  earl  of  Pembroke, 
AVestminster.  of  the  office  of  cliamberlain  of  North  Wales,  receiving  ihe  accustomed  fees 
from  the  issues  of  North  Wales  at  his  own  hands  and  rendering  his  account 
yearly  for  the  office  before  the  king's  auditors  there  ;  in  lieu  of  a  grant  of 
the  otfice  for  life  to  William  Hastynges,  knight,  lord  Ilastyngcs  of  Hastynges, 
by  letters  patent  dated  31  July,  1  Edward  IV.  surrendered.  By  p.s, 

April  14.        Appointment  for  life  of  William  Hastynges,  knight,  lord  of  Hastynges, 
Westminster,  as  steward  and  surveyor  of  the  king's  castle,  manor  and  lordship  of 
Fodryngay,  co.  Northampton,  and  master  of  the  game  of  the  deer  of  the 
king's  parks  there  with  all  profits,  receiving  IOO5.  yearly  at  the  hands  of 
the  receivers,  bailiffs,  farmers  or  occupiers  of  the  castle,  manor  and  lordship. 

By  p.s. 

April  30.        Grant  for  life  to  Joan  late  the  wife  of  John  Dynham,  knight,  of  two 
Westminster,  tuns  of  red  wine  yearly  from  the  king's  prises  in  the  ports  of  Derimouth 
and  Exeter,  co.  Devon.  By  p.s. 

April  15.        Grant  to  John  Cobbe  and  Marjory  his  wife,  the  midwife  of  the  king's 
Westminster,  consort  Elizabeth,  queen  of  England,  of  10/.  yearly  for  the  life  of  Marjory, 
from  the  issues  of  the  county  of  Stafford.  By  K. 

April  27.  Pardon  to  John  Spadard  of  Pole,  co.  Dorset,  '  marchant,'  of  i;is  outlawry 
Westminster,  in  the  county  of  Devon  for  not  appearing  before  the  juislices  of  the  Bench 
to  satisfy  William  Duke  of  10/.  which  the  latter  recovei-ed  against  him  and 
20s.  damages;  he  having  surrenderetl  to  the  Flete  prison  and  the  said 
William  having  acknowledged  himself  satisfied  by  Jolin  Hoppyng,  his 
attorney,  as  Robert  Danby,  chief  justice  of  the  Bench,  has  certified. 

May  5.         General  pardon  to  Robert  Fitz  Symond  of  Framysden,  co.  Suffolk, 
Westminster,  esquire,  alias  Robert  Fitz  Siraond  late  of  Barlyng,  co.  Essex,  of  all  offences 
committed  by  him  before  4  May.  By  p.s. 


Membrane  15. 

March  14.  Grant  to  the  mayor,  sherili's,  bailiffs,  burgesses  and  men  of  the  town  of 
Westminster.  Southampton,  in  consideration  of  their  expenses  in  resisting  the  kind's 


9  EDWARD  IV.— Part  I. 


155 


1469. 


April  4. 
Dogmerefic-ld 


April  15. 
Westminster. 

April  17. 
Westminster. 


April  IS. 
Westminster. 


Miiy  1. 
Westminster. 


April  29. 
Westminster. 


Membrane  15 — cent. 

enemies  and  repairing  the  devastations  of  the  sea,  find  becau-se  they  are- 
bound  to  pay  to  the  king  200/.  yearly  for  flio  farm  of  the  town  and 
26/.  \?-s.  Ad.  for  tiie  new  increment,  out  of  which  they  are  charged  with 
divens  parcels  amounting  to  226/.  13*.  Ad.  yearly  to  the  king's  consort 
Elizabeth,  queen  of  England,  and  Richard,  earl  of  Warwick,  severally  for 
their  live.-s  by  pretext  of  grants  by  letters  patent  of  the  king,  that  they  or 
their  factors  or  attorneys  in  each  ol  the  sixteen  years  after  Cluistmas  uext 
may  ship  50  sacks  of  wool  in  the  port  of  Southampton  and  lake  them  to 
foreign  puts  by  liie  straits  of  Marrok  quit  of  customs  ;ind  subsidies  and 
afterwai'ds  20  sacks  yearly  in  like  manner  duiing  ihe  king's  pleasure, 
ju'ovided  that  in  each  of  tlie  said  sixteen  years  they  shall  expend  the  sum 
of  135/.  on  the  repair  and  fortification  of  tiicir  walls,  staithes,  quays  and 
whar\  es.  And  if  in  any  year  they  siiull  not  f-liij)  the  full  amount  of  50  tacks 
they  may  ship  the  dftfi(;ieucy  in  the  succeeding  years.  By  p.s. 

General  pardon  to  John  Marney  of  Leyremarney,  co.  Essex,  knight,  alias 
Mar^ny  ahas  Marner  alias  Maryner,  of  all  offences  conmiitted  l)y  him 
before  29  March  last  and  all  debts  and  accounts  due  from  him  to  the  king. 

By  p.s. 

General  pardoii  to  John  de  Veer,  knight,  earl  of  Oxford,  of  all  offence.** 
committed  by  him  before  14  Apiil.  By  p.s 

General  i)aidon  to  ThoiuMs  Wyngcfcld  alias  Wynkefeld,  esfpiire,  late 
e-cheator  in  the  counties  of  Surrey  and  Sussex,  of  all  offences  committed 
by  him  before  20  March  last  and  all  lines,  issues,  drbts,  accounts  and 
arrears  due  from  him  to  the  king.  By  p.s. 

Grant  to  Ralph  Bury,  'gentilman,'  and  his  lieirs  of  the  manor  of  Suttou 
by  Cliesewyke  and  all  lands,  meadows,  rents  and  ser\ices  sometime  of 
'I'liomas  Bray  and  now  in  the  king's  hands  in  SuUon  an<l  Chesewyke,  co. 
Middlesex,  rendering  to  the  king  (SOs.  Ad.  yearly  as  of  old  and   i\d.  in 
addition.  By  K. 

Pardon  to  Otweli  Pylkyngton  alias  Pelkynglon  of  the  town  of  Calais^ 
'gentilman,'  for  the  death  and  murder  of  Hugh  Oldefeld,  '  yoman,'  and  all 
felonies  committed  by  him  before  the  last  day  of  April.  By  p.s. 

Grant  for  life  to  the  king's  servant  Hugh  II<  rnage  of  the  king's  liousehold, 
es(juire,  and  his  assigns  fiom  Micliaelnnis  last  of  the  manor  of  Wavendcn, 
CO.  Buckingham,  late  of  Henry  Cotirtenay  late  of  E.<tmylle,  co.  Southampton, 
esquire,  extended  at  the  value  of  11.  yearly.  By  p.s. 


Membrane  14. 

March  8.       Gener,il  pardon  to  Robert  Hunt  late  of  London,  •  yoman,'  alias  '  sergenunt/ 
Westminster,  of  all  offences  committed  by  him  before  1  March  last,  and  all  fines,  debts- 
and  accounts  due  from  him  to  the  king.  By  p.s. 

March  16.  Appointment,  during  pleasure,  of  William  Frysby  as  ganger:  in  the  port 
Westminster,  of  Pole  and  ports  and  i)laces  adjiicent,  receiving  the  accustomed  fees. 

By  bill  of  the  treasurer. 

March  17.       Grant  to  Baldwin  Hyde,   canon  and  prebendary  of  the  }>rebend  of 
Westminiter,  Holyngtou  in  the  free  ehapel  of  St.  Mary  wiinin  the  castle  of  liastynges^ 
in  the  diocese  of  Chichester,  of  a  canonr}  and  p'rebend  in  the  king's  free 
chapel  of  St.  Mary,  St.  George  the  Mart)r,  and  St.  Edward  the  Confessor 
within  the  castle  of  Wyndesore,  on  an  exchange  with  Kobert  Wodmauston. 

By  K. 

Mandate  in  j  ursuance  to  the  wartlen  or  dciin  of  the  last-named  chapel. 


15G 


CALENDAU  OF  PATENT  EOLLS. 


1469.  Membrane  14 — cont. 

April  26.       Appointmpiit,  until  26  October  nexf,  of  Piiilip  Chylde  to  purvey  wheat, 
Westminster,  wood  ami  otluT  necessaries  for  the  oHice  of  the  bakery  of  tiie  household. 

By  bill  of  the  treasurer  of  thi  household. 

April  29.        The  like,  until  29  October  next,  of  Wil'.iam  Wiiytby  to  purvey  beeves, 
"Westminster,  muttons,  salt   and  sea-fish  and  other  necessaries  for  the  office  of  the 
caterer  of  the  household.  By  bill  of  the  treasurer  of  the  household. 

Sept.  24.       The  like,  until  24  March  next,  of  Thomas  Markliam  to  purvey  sea-fish 
Westminster,  for  the  expenses  of  the  hou.sehold. 

By  biil  of  the  treasurer  of  the  liouseliold. 

April  28.  Whereas  by  indentures  dated  10  8e|)te;nber  last  the  king  retained 
Westminster.  Walter,  lord  Mount  joy,  to  serve  him  and  iiis  kinsman  tlie  duke  of  Brittany 
in  their  wars  against  their  adversary  Louis  calling  iiimself  king  of  Francio 
for  a  j)eriod  of  six  months,  receiving  certain  wages  for  him -elf  and  his 
retintie,  and  this  voyajre  to  the  duchy  of  Brittany  was  restrained  by  the 
king  and  the  indentures  were  void  and  of  no  effect,  and  because  the  said 
lord  .Mounljoye  received  nt  the  king's  command  from  the  treasurer  and 
chamberlains  oi'  the  Exchequer  certain  suius  of  money  for  the  wages  of 
him.-ielf  and  his  retinui;  he  offered  his  service  to  go  to  other  places  at  the 
king's  command,  and  the  king  de.--ired  him  to  serve  him  at  sea  with 
1,000  soldiers  for  a  quarter  of  a  year  and  with  500  mariners  in  the  company 
of  Anthony,  lord  Scales,  receiving  certain  wages,  as  appears  in  a  writ  of 
privy  fifal,  and  he  served  accordingly  until  othei  wise  ordered;  the  king 
hereby  pardons  to  him  all  offences  committed  by  him  and  all  debts  and 
accounts  due  from  him  to  the  king  in  this  matter,  although  he  did  not  serve 
for  the  full  quarter  of  a  year.  By  p.s. 

May  4.  Whereas  by  certain  indentures  on  10  September  last  the  king  retained 
Wc-tminster.  Anthony,  lor({  Skalcs  to  serve  him  by  sea,  and  land  for  the  defence  of  the 
realm  with  .3,000  men  and  1,100  mariners  for  the  space  of  a  quarter  of  a 
year,  receiving  certain  wages  for  himself  and  the  men  and  mariners,  and 
with  five  lancers  assigned  to  him  beyond  the  said  number,  and  he  served 
accordingly  until  oiherwise  oidered;  the  kin^  hereby  pardons  to  him  all 
offences  committed  by  liim  ami  all  debts  and  aceouurs  duo  from  him  to  the 
king  in  this  matter,  althoirgh  he  did  not  .serve  for  the  full  quarter  of  a  year. 

By  p.s. 

Membrane  13. 

May  17.  Creation  of  Humphrey,  lord  Stafford  of  Suthwyke,  knight,  as  earl  of" 
Westminster.  Devon  with  remainder  to  the  heirs  of  his  body  :  an(l  grant  to  him  and  hid 
said  heirs  of  the  manor  of  Columpne  John  a'ins  ('idnie  John  and  tlie  manor 
of  Fayreway  alias  Farewey  with  the  advowson  of  the  chui'ch  ef  Farewey, 
CO.  Devon,  the  manor  of  Trelugan  a  .d  a  moiety  of  the  manors  of 
Treverbyn  and  Tregamur,  co.  Cornwall,  and  ail  messuages,  mills,  land-*, 
rents,  revei'sions,  services,  possesjions,  meadows,  |.asturen,  woods,  heaths 
and  mcors  in  Columpne  John,  Fayreway,  Selake  ali'is  Seylike  by 
Ilalberiot!,  Pontisford  by  Columpton,  Paddebroke  alias  Pattebroke  and 
Holbroke,  co.  Devon,  and  Trelugan,  Treverbyn  and  Tregamur,  co.  Cornwall, 
■which  Henry  Courteuay,  deceaseil,  son  of  Thomas  Courten.ay,  late  earl  of 
Devtm,  held  to  himself  and  the  heirs  of  his  body  with  remainder  to  Thomas 
Courttnay,  last  earl  of  Devon  and  his  heirs,  the  said  Henry  having  died 
without  issue  and  he  and  the  said  last  eud  having  been  attainted  of  high 
treason,  to  hold  the  above  with  knights'  fees,  advowsons,  c  urts  leet,  views 
of  frank-pledge,  parks,  warrens,  fisheries,  liberties,  franchises  ancl  other 
profits.  By  K. 


9  KUWAUD  IV.— Part  I. 


157 


14r9.  Membrane  \  2 — cont. 

May  10.  Grant  (o  the  merchants  (if  Alniain  who  have  tlic  house  in  the  city  cf 
Westminster.  London  commonly  calle'l  Guildclialla  Tei/toiii cotton  that  from  Midsummer 
next  until  the  last  day  of  August  following  through  the  wliole  realm  of 
England  and  other  places  subject  to  the  king  they  shall  enjoy  all  privileges 
granted  to  them  hy  former  kiiiirs,  arid  l)e  quit  of  subsidies  due  to  the  king 
for  taking  their  pcrions  or  their  goods  into  or  out  of  the  realm.        By  p.s. 

May  12.        General  pardon    to  John  Bernard  late  of  Upton,  co.  Southampton, 
Westminster.  '  gentilman,' «/<V/s  cf  London,  late  servant  of  John,  earl  of  Oxford,  of  all 
offences  committed  by  him  before  4  April  last.  By  p.s. 

May  21.  Appointment  for  life  of  V^'illiam  Gomme,  priest,  as  the  king's  chaplain 
Dogmersfield.  to  celebrate  divine  service  in  the  chapel  of  Holy  Trinity  within  the  park 
of  Rostormall,  co.  Cornwall,  receiving  -il.  yearly  for  his  salary  from 
Michaelmas,  6  Edward  IV.  at  the  hands  ot  the  receiver-general  of  the 
duchy  of  Cornwall  at  the  c.\cheqiier  of  Lostwythiell  from  the  issues  of  the 
duchy,  with  the  houses,  gardens  and  other  profits  pertiiiuing  to  the  chapel; 
in  lieu  of  a  like  appointment  of  him  by  letters  patent  dated  11  December, 
1  Edward  IV.  surrendered  because  invalid.  By  p.s. 

Mandate  in  pursuance  to  the  receiver-general  of  the  duchy. 

July  8.  Revocation  of  the  protection  witii  clause  volumus,  for  one  year, 
Westminster,  lately  granted  by  letters  patent  to  Richard  Vynean  late  of  Treleweren, 
CO.  Cornwall,  '  gentilman,'  staying  on  the  king's  service  in  tlie  company  of 
the  king's  kinsman  John,  earl  of  \\'orc('ster,  deputy  of  the  king's  brother 
Geoigc,  duke  of  Clarence,  lieutenant  of  Ireland,  on  the  safe-custody, 
defence  and  victualling  of  that  land,  because  he  delays  at  Treleweren 
aforesaid,  as  appears  by  certificate  of  the  sheriff  of  Cornwall. 


Membrane  12. 

May  12.  Licence,  for  5  marks  paid  in  the  Ininaper,  for  Thomas  Ilolbache  to 
Westminster,  grant  the  manor  of  Stacliedon,  held  in  chief,  to  William  Robert  and  Johu 
I3erdefeld  and  their  heirs,  and  for  the  latter  to  grant  it  to  Laurence, 
bishop  of  Durham,  John  Say,  knight,  John  Boteler,  esquire,  Richard 
Godfrey,  esijuire,  John  Stanford,  esciuire,  and  Joan,  daughter  of  the  said 
John  Boteler,  and  the  heirs  of  the  bodies  of  the  said  .lohn  Stanford  an<l 
Joan,  with  remainder  to  the  l  ight  heirs  of  tlohn  Stanford. 

May  16.  By  letters  patent  dated  1  February,  5  Edward  IV.  the  king  granted  to 
W^estmiuster.  Nicholas  GayLcsford,  escpiire,  one  of  tho  ushfirs  of  the  chamber,  and  the 
heirs  of  his  body  certain  messuages,  cottages,  land-,  mtadow,  wood,  marsh 
and  rent  in  Nelherburnehain,  Upperburnehain,  Westwode,  Owslon, 
Epworth,  Estlande  and  Ila.xay  within  the  Isle  of  Axeholme,  co.  Lincoln, 
and  Misterton  ;  and  by  virtue  of  these  letters  the  said  Nicholas  was  seised 
of  the  abo\c  in  his  demesne  as  of  fee  tail  until  one  John  Guston,  clerk, 
recovered  them  against  him  before  the  justices  of  the  Bench  at  West- 
minster at  Easter  last  by  the  names  of  two  messuages,  two  cottages, 
234  acres  of  land,  iV^  acres  of  meadow,  12  acres  of  wood,  6  acres  of  niarsh 
and  71*.  rent  in  Netherbiirnehain,  Upperburueham,  Westwode,  Owston, 
Eppeworth,  Estlande  and  Ilaxay  by  writ  directed  (o  the  sheriff  of 
Lincoln  and  16s.  rent  in  ^listerton  by  writ  directed  to  the  sheriff  of 
Nottingham,  which  recoveries  were  for  the  use  of  Richard,  the  prior,  and 
the  convent  of  the  liouse  of  the  Visitation  of  St.  Mary  of  the  Cartlnisinn 
order  in  the  Isle  of  Axiliolme,  co.  Lincoln,  by  virtue  ot  which  the  said 
John  was  seised  of  them  in  his  demesne  as  of  fee,  and  afterwards  at 
Easter  last  by  a  fine  levied  in  the  same  court  the  said  Nicholas  and 
Margaret  his  wife  acknowledged  Ihcm  to  be  the  right  of  the  said  John 
Ouslon  and  warranted  them  to  him  and  his  heirs  against  George,  abbot  of 


158 


1469. 


May  6. 

Westminster 


June  15. 
Westminster. 


1468. 

Oct.  3. 

Westminster. 


Metnbraties  12 — cont, 

St,  Peter'.*,  "West.ninster,  and  his  siicce.s.sors  for  (he  use  of  the  said  prior  and 
hi.s  successors,  the  royal  licence  not  having  been  obtained,  no  mention 
beiu^  made  in  the  fine  that  the  tenements  were  then  held  in  chief,  and 
afterwards  by  charter  dated  4  May  last  the  said  John  enfeoffed  the  said 
I»rior  iin  i  convent  of  the  above  without  licence.  Tlie  king  now,  under- 
standing that  the  prior  and  convent  paid  a  notable  sum  of  money  to  tiie 
said  Nicholas  for  the  said  tenements  and  rents,  pardons  all  the  trespasses 
aforesaid  and  confirms  tiieir  estate  in  the  above,  that  they  may  pray  for 
the  good  estate  of  the  king  and  Elizabeth,  queen  of  Eng!a:ul,  his 
consort  and  for  their  souls  after  death. 

By  p.s.  and  for  IOO5.  paid  in  the  hanaper. 

General  pardon  to  Robert  Whitchurche  late  of  Exhale  in  the  county  of 
Ihe  city  of  Coventry,  '  husboridma-i,'  alias  Robert  Whitechurclie  late  of 
Coventry,  '  yoman.'  By  p.s. 

Grant  for  life  to  Thomas  Auerey  and  John  Willey  of  the  olfice  of 
coroner  of  the  marshalsea  of  the  household  with  all  fees  and  profits,  in  lieu 
of  a  like  grant  of  the  same  office  to  Thomas  Say  by  letters  patent  dated 
25  November,  I  Edward  IV.  surrendered.  By  p.s. 

Pardon  to  .Tohn  Roger  of  London,  '  gentil'nm,'  one  of  the  collectors  of 
the  subsidy  of  tonnage  and  poundage  in  the  port  of  London,  of  all  offences 
committed  by  him  and  all  actions  against  him,  provided  that  this  shall  not 
acquit  him  of  any  accounts  in  his  office.  By  p.s. 

Vacated  because  in  the  eitjhth.  year. 


2^gg  Membrane  II. 

May  18.  Licence,  without  tine  or  fee  paid  in  the  hanaper,  for  William  Catesby, 
Westminster,  knight,  Robert  Tanftld,  Hugh  Tapton,  clerk,  and  Simon  Burton  to  gran 
the  manor  of  Drayton,  co.  Northampton,  held  in  chief,  to  the  king's 
kinsman  John  Stafford,  knight,  son  of  Humphrey,  late  duke  of  Buckingham, 
and  Constance  his  wife,  daughter  and  heiress  of  Henry  Grene,  esquire, 
and  the  heirs  of  Constance.  Jiy  p.s. 

The  like  for  "William,  bishop  of  Winchester,  and  Richard,  earl  of 
Ryver.*,  to  enfeoff  the  said  John  and  Constance  of  the  manor  of  Warmystre, 
CO.  Wilts,  held  in  chief,  to  hold  to  thein.selves  and  the  heirs  of  Constance. 

By  p.s 

The  like  for  Thomas  Lenton  and  Katharine  the  daughter  of  Robert 
Longe,  kinsfolk  and  heirs  of  William  Aldewyncle,  enquire,  to  grant 
the  manor  of  White  Rothynge,  co.  Essex,  and  the  advow.son  of  the 
chui'ch  of  White  Rothynge,  held  in  chief,  to  the  said  John  and  Constance 
to  hold  as  above,  and  also  to  grant  the  manor  of  Comberton,  co, 
Cambridge,  held  in  chief,  to  Margaret  late  the  wife  of  the  said  Henry 
Grene,  esquire,  for  life  with  remainder  to  the  said  John  and  Constance  as 
above.  By  p.s. 

Th3  like  for  the  said  John  and  Constance  to  grant  the  reversion  of  the 
manor  of  Bukworth,  co.  Huntingdon,  held  in  chief,  on  the  death  of  the 
said  Margaret,  who  holds  it  for  life  of  the  inheritance  of  Constance,  to 
Richard  Heton,  William  Cumberford,  John  Geffrey,  clerk,  and  Oliver 
Sutton,  and  for  these  to  re-grant  the  same  to  the  said  John  and  Constance 
to  hold  as  above.  By  p.s. 

The  like  for  the  said  John  and  Constance  to  grant  the  manors  of 
Grafton  by  Gedyngton  and  Hardwyk,  co.  Northampton,  held  in  chief,  to 
the  said  Richard,  XVilliam,  John  and  Oliver,  and  for  these  to  re-grant  the 


9  EDWARD  IV.— Part  T. 


159 


1409.  Membrane  II — cont. 

said  manor  of  Grafton  to  tlie  said  John  and  Constance  to  hold  as  above 
and  the  siiid  manor  of  llardewyk  to  the  said  Margaret  for  life,  with 
remainder  to  the  said  John  and  Constance  as  above.  By  p.s. 

May  2o.        Grant  for  life  to  the  king's  servant  Thomas  Sandeland,  one  of  the 
Dogmeisfield.  yeomen  of  the  ciiamber,  for  iiis  good  service  to  tlie  king's  father  in  England 
and  Ireland  and  to  the  king,  of  an  annuity  of   10  marks  from  Easter, 
8  Ivlward  IV.  from  the  farm  of  the  manor  of  VVrokvvanlyn,  co.  Salo]). 

By  p.s. 

Mandat(f  in  pursuancii  to  the  sheriff  of  Salop  or  the  bailiff,  farmer  or 
other  occujiiers  of  the  said  manor. 

May  18.  General  pardon  to  John  Whitingham,  '  gentilman,'  alias  John 
Westmiuster.  Wyttinghrim,  esqnii  e,  of  all  offences  committed  by  him  iiefore  9  May. 

'  By  p  s. 

June  8.         Pardon  to  the  king's  servitor  Ralph  Seynlleger,  late  she.  iff  of  Kent,  of 
Westminster,  all  offences  committed  by  him  and  all  fines,  issues,  debts,  accounts  and 
arrears  due  from  him  to  the  king  before  5  June.  By  p  s. 

June  12.  Grant  for  life  to  Jolin  de  Puche,  esquire,  of  an  annuity  of  20/.  from 
Westminster.  Michaelmas  last  at  the  receipt  of  the  Exchequer.  By  p.s. 


Mejibra.ve  10. 

May  8.         Grantduring  office  to  Thomas  Billing,  chief  justice  of  the  King's  Bench, 
Westminster,  of  40  marks  yearly  from  23  January  Inst  f ro  n  the  issues  of  the  banaper 
and  a  tun  of  wine  yearly  at  Christmas  in  the  port  of  London.  By  K. 

May  6.  Grant  to  John  Lysour,  born  in  the  parts  of  Scotland,  and  the  offspring 
Westminster,  of  his  body  of  letters  of  denization. 

By  p.s.  and  for  10  marks  paid  in  the  hanaper. 

May  12.  Grant  for  life  to  the  king's  servitor  Thomas  Croftc,  esquire,  of  the 
W<».stmiuster.  office  of  ranger  in  the  king's  forests  of  Shotter  and  Stowode,  co.  0.\ford, 
and  Bernewode,  co.  Bunkingliam,  with  the  fees  allowed  to  the  office  of 
ranger  of  the  forest  of  Siiottore  and  Stowode  in  the  time  of  Edward  III. 
from  the  issues  of  the  counties  of  Oxford  and  Berks  ;  in  lieu  of  a  grant 
lor  life  to  John  Bates  of  the  office  of  ranger  of  the  said  forests  with  the 
accustomed  fees  from  the  issues  of  the  king's  lordship  or  manor  of  Crcndon, 
CO.  Buckingham,  by  letters  patent  dated  .5  March, Kdw  ird  IV.  surronderccl. 

By  p.s. 

May  4.  (irant  for  life  to  Bartholomew  Darryvyere,  knight,  in  lieu  of  a  grant 
Westminster,  to  him  for  life  of  SO/,  yearly  at  the  receipt  of  the  Exchequer  by  letters 
pitent  dated  IG  Felirsiary,  7  Edward  IV.  surrendered,  of  100/.  yearly  from 
Easter  last,  viz.  50/.  I 4rf.  from  the  issue  of  the  bailiwick  of  tlie  himdretls 
of  Estflegge,  Westflegge,  llappyng,  Tavcrham,  Blofeld,  Walshani,  and 
llimilyerJ,  co.  Norfolk,  and  other  issues  of  the  coimties  of  Norfolk  and 
Suffolk,  11/.  lOs.  '.id.  from  minute  particles  of  serjeanty  of  the  counties  of 
Si<n»erset  and  Dois'-t  and  other  issues  of  the  same  counties,  71.  Ids.  5d. 
from  the  rent  of  sci  jeanty  of  the  county  of  Wilts  and  other  issues  of  the 
sam(!  county,  10/.  from  the  increment  of  the  town  of  Allerwas  and  the 
issues  of  the  county  of  Stafford,  and  20/.  from  the  'nisfoms  and  subsidies 
in  the  port  of  Ipswich.  By  p.s. 

Mandates  in  pursuance  to  the  following  : — 
The  sheriff  of  Not  folk  and  Suffolk. 
The  sheriff  of  Somerset  and  Dorset. 


160 


CALENDAK  OF  PATENT  ROLLS. 


1409.  Membrane  JO — cont. 

Tl'.e  slieriff  of  Stafford  and  the  receivers  or  other  occupiers  of  the 

iucreineiit  of  the  towu  of  Allerwas. 
The  sheriff  of  Wilts. 

Tlie  collectors  of  the  custom  and  subsidy  in  the  port  of  Ipswich. 

June  8.        Ratification  of  the  estate  which  Leysan  Gefferey  has  for  life  as  dean  of 
Westmin«ter.  the  deanery  of  Walyngford,  to  which  he  was  presented  by  the  king's 
kingsman  Richard,  earl  of  Warwick,  by  virtue  of  a  grant  to  the  latter  and 
Walter  Senile,  knight,  by  letters  patent  dated  16  January,  2  Edward  IV. 

By  p.s. 


Membrane  9. 


May  29. 

Dogmersfield, 


May  30. 

Dogmersfield. 


May  18. 

Westminster. 


June  25. 
Westminster. 


Grant  to  Gerard  Caniziani  and  Laurence  Bardoce,  merchants  of  Florence, 
in  repayment  of  the  sum  of  700/.  due  to  them  from  the  king,  as  appears  in 
the  receipt  of  the  Exchequer,  that  they  or  their  executors  after  their  decease 
or  their  factors  or  attorneys  nmy  ship  sacks  and  cloves  of  wool  and  woollen 
cloths,  pieces  of  tin  and  fodders  of  lead  in  the  ports  of  London,  Saudwicli 
and  Southampton  and  take  the  wools  to  the  straits  of  Marrok  and  the 
woollen  cluths,  tin  and  lead  to  any  foreign  parts  and  bring  back  other 
merchandise  to  the  said  ports  quit  of  customs  and  subsidies  to  the  said 
sum  of  700/.  By  K. 

The  king's  servant  Stephen  Preston,  esquire,  lately  had  of  the  grant  of 
Gilbert  Kymer,  the  dean,  and  the  chapter  of  the  cathedral  of  Salisbury  by 
their  deed  dated  16  June,  14b2,  the  reversion  of  the  office  of  porter  of  the 
close  of  Salisbury  on  the  death,  deprivation  cr  sun-ender  of  Robert  Dyer, 
porter  of  the  close,  to  hold  for  life  with  the  accustomed  fees,  and  other 
profits,  and  surrendered  the  deed  to  James  Goldwell,  now  dean,  and  the 
chapter  at  the  king's  desire  that  Philip  Reynold,  one  of  the  clerks  of  his 
cbapel,  should  have  the  reversion,  and  the  dean  and  chapter  granted  tlie 
reversion  to  the  said  Philip,  and  tlie  said  Robert  Dyer  is  now  dead  and 
the  said  Philip  is  seised  of  the  office.  The  king  accordingly  in  recompence 
grants  to  the  said  Stephen  that  he  or  his  factors  or  attorneys  in  each  year 
of  his  life  may  ship  woollen  cloths  in  the  port  of  Pole  or  creeks  adjacent 
and  take  them  to  foreign  parts  quit  of  customs  and  subsidies  to  the  sum 
of  10/.  "  By  p.s. 

Mandate  in  pursuance  to  the  customers  or  collectors  of  customs  and 
subsidies  in  the  said  port. 

Grant  for  life  to  the  king's  servant  John  Austyn,  in  lieu  of  a  gnmt  to 
him  of  sums  of  &d.  and  id.  daily  by  letters  patent  dated  6  November, 
6  Edward  IV.  surrendered,  of  the  manor  of  St.  JNIargarct  Stretton,  co.  Wilts, 
for  which  13/.  yearly  is  paid  at  the  Exchequer,  to  hold  from  Michaelmas 
last  without  rendering  any  account.  By  p.s. 

Presentation  of  William  Test,  chaplain,  to  the  parish  church  of  Morton, 
in  the  diocese  of  London,  void  by  the  resignation  of  John  Roger,  priest, 
last  vicar. 


Membrane  8 

May  16.  Grant  to  John  Middleton,  citizen  and  mercer  of  London,  that  he  or  his 
We»tminster.  executors  after  his  decease  or  their  factors  or  attorneys  may  ship  woollen 
cloths,  sacks  and  bales  of  wool  and  wool-fells  and  other  merchandise  in 
any  ports  of  the  realm  and  take  the  wools,  wool-fells  and  merchandise  of 
the  staple  of  Calais  beyond  the  mountains  by  the  straits  of  Marrok  and 
the  VN'ooUen  cloths  and  otlier  merchandise  to  any  foreign  parts  and  bring 
back  other  merchandise  to  the  realm  quit  of  customs  and  subsidies  to  t\\& 


9  EDWARD  IV.— Part  I 


161 


1469.  Membrane  8 — cont. 

amount  of  700/.  The  king  made  a  like  grant  to  Ralph  Wolseley,  esquire, 
victualler  of  the  town  of  Calais,  hy  letters  patent  dated  23  June, 
6  Edward  IV.  which  the  said  Ralph  has  suriendered  because  he  has 
received  no  benefit  therefrom  and  because  he  is  indebted  to  the  said  John 
in  the  sum  of  700/.  By  p.s. 

Vacated  by  stirrender  on  18  Ju/y,  18  Edward  IV.  by  Stephen  Middlelon 
and  William  Middleton,  sons  and  executors  of  the  said  John,  because 
the  king  satisfied  tJiem  of  the  said  sum,  and  cancelled. 

Grant  to  John  Rogger  and  William  Kerver  of  London,  in  repayment  of  the 
sum  of  1,171/.  4*.  7^d.  due  to  them  from  the  king,  as  appears  in  the  receipt 
of  the  Exchequer,  that  they  or  their  executors  after  their  decease  or  their 
factors  or  attorneys  may  ship  sacks  and  cloves  of  wool,  woollen  cloths,  pieces 
of  tin  and  fodders  of  lead  in  any  ports  of  the  realm  and  take  the  wools  by 
the  straits  of  Mari'ok  and  the  woollen  cloths,  tin  and  lead  to  any  foreign 
parts  and  bring  back  other  merchandise  quit  of  customs  and  subsidies  to 
the  said  sum  of  1,171/.  4*.  l\d.  By  p.s. 

June  26.        Pardon  to  Thomas  Oxynbrygge  alias  Oxbrygge  of  all  offences  committed 
Westminster,  by  liim  and  all  penalties,  fines  and  amercements  forfeited  by  him  l)y  reason 
of  tiic  office  of  escheatoi- of  the  counties  of  Bedford  and  Buckingham  and 
all  debts,  accounts  and  arrears  due  from  him  to  the  king.  By  p.s. 


:\Iay  5. 
Westminster. 


Membrane  7. 


April.  24. 
Westminster. 


May  16. 

Westminster. 

June  10. 
Westminster. 


y  96186. 


John  Lambard,  citizen  and  mercer  of  London,  and  Thomas  Rygby, 
'gentilman,'  sued  out  a  writ  of  debt  of  99/.  against  Gervase  Clifton  late  of 
Grysby,  co.  Lincoln,  knight,  returnable  before  the  justices  of  the  king  at 
Westminster  on  the  morrow  of  All  Souls,  4  Edward  IV.  directed  to  the 
sheriffs  of  London,  and  on  that  day  .John  Tate  and  .John  Stone,  then  sheriffs, 
returned  the  writ  before  Robert  Dan  by  and  his  fellow.-,  justices  of  the 
Bench,  at  Westminster  that  the  saiil  (iervasc  hnd  nothing  in  their  bailiwick, 
and  after  the  issue  of  writs  of  capias,  alias  and  plurics  the  said  Gervase  was 
outlawed  on  Monday  after  the  Translation  of  St.  Thomas  the  INIartyr,  5 
Edwiird  IV.  And  tin;  late  king,  for  divers  debts  in  which  he  was  indebted  to 
the  sai<lGervase,  assigned  to  him  by  the  name  of  Gervase  Clyfton,  knight,  late 
treasurer  of  Calais,  49/.  8*.  of  silver  by  a  tally  levied  at  the  receii)t  of  the 
Exche(iuor  at  Westminsicr  on  22  November,  31  Henry  VI.  to  be  reireived 
from  tiie  customs  and  snbsidics  of  wools  in  the  port  of  London  from  Ri)bert 
Tanfeld  and  John  PontrcU,  collectors  of  the  same,  as  apjx'ars  in  a  of 
mcmoriinila  at  the  receipt  if  llu;  Exchequer  and  a  counter-tally  in  the 
custody  of  the  cliand)erlain  of  the  l']xche(iuer,  I'ud  tlie  siid  (Jervase  on  23 
November,  34  Henry  VI.  at  London  in  the  parish  of  St.  .Marl in  Orgar  in  l!ie 
ward  of  Candelwykcstr:-te  delivered  the  tally  to  the  said  John  Poutrell,  who 
aflerwar  Is  died,  but  altliougli  the  said  collectors  on  that  day  had  suflicient  in 
their  hands  for  payment  no  payment  was  ever  made  to  the  ^aid  Gervase  of  the 
said  49/.  8a-.  or  any  i)arcel  thereof,  and  accordingly  by  reason  of  the  said 
outlawry  the  said  4!)/.  8s'.  .accrued  to  the  king.  And  the  king  hereby  grants 
to  Thomas  Thoi  ndon  of  London,  'draper,'  the  said  49/.  8s.  at  the  bands  of 
the  said  Robert  Tanfeld.  By  p.s. 

Grant  to  the  burgesses  of  tlu;  town  of  New  AVyndesore  of  pontiigc  for 
seven  years  for  the  rei)air  of  the  bridge  over  the  Thames. 

Inspeximus  and  confirmation  of  letters  patent  under  the  great  seal  of 
Ireland  dated  at  Drogheda,  23  Fclirnary,  7  Ed^vard  I  V\  witnessed  by  the 
king's  kinsman  John,  earl  of  Worcester,  deputy  of  the  king's  brother 
George,  duke  of  Clarence,  lieutenant  of  Ireland,  being  a  grant  for  life  to 
Jaires  Dokray,  esquire,  constable  of  the  king's  castjc  of  Cragfargus  in 


]62 


CALENDA.R  OF  PATENT  ROLLS. 


1469. 


June  14. 
Westminstur. 


May  9. 

Westminster. 


June  27. 
Westminster. 


July  11. 
Westminster. 


March  18. 
Westminster. 


Mnrch  26. 
Dogmersfiekl. 


May  10. 

Westminster. 


April  20. 
Westminster. 


Membrane  7 — cont. 

Ireland,  for  his  good  service  to  the  king's  father  and  the  king  and  because 
the  castle  is  a  garrison  of  war  and  is  surrounded  by  Irish  and  Scots  without 
succour  of  the  English  for  60  miles  and  the  constables  formerly  had  24 
soldiers  for  its  safe-guarding  but  he  keeps  it  alone  with  a  force  at  his  own 
expense,  that  he  shall  have  10  soldiers  within  the  castle  and  Ad,  daily  for 
each  of  them,  and  granting  to  him  in  part  payment  thereof  40  marks 
yearly  from  the  king's  manor  or  lordship  of  Ardmulghan  and  all  lands  in 
Ardmulghan  and  the  customs  and  cokets  in  the  ports  and  franchises  of 
Ardeglasse  and  Cragfargus. 

And  grant  for  life  to  the  said  James,  in  full  payment  of  the  residue,  of 
the  king's  water-mill  in  Cragfargus  by  the  castle,  not  exceeding  the  yearly 
value  of  .1  mai'ks,  and  another  40  marks  yearly  from  the  customs  and  cokets 
of  the  town  of  Dundalk.  By  p.s. 

Grant  during  minority  to  John  Awdeley,  knight,  lord  of  Awdeley,  of  the 
wardship,  marriage  and  custody  of  William  Wynnyng,  kinsman  and  heir 
of  John  Scot  late  of  Stirmysterraarchall,  co.  Dorset,  with  all  manors, 
lands,  rents,  services,  profits  and  revenues  belonging  to  him,  held  in  chief 
as  parcel  of  the  crown,  of  which  the  said  John  Scot  died  seised  in  the 
counties  of  Dorset  and  Wilts.  By  p.s. 

Grant  for  life  to  Nicholas  Loure  of  the  custody  of  the  smaller  piece  of  the 
king's  seal  called  '  le  Touche '  at  Lostwythiell,  co.  Cornwall,  for  the 
recognisances  of  debts  there,  with  the  accustomed  fees.  By  p.s. 

Grant  for  life  to  the  king's  servant  John  West,  coroner  and  attoi-ney 
of  the  king  in  the  King's  Bench,  of  10/.  yearly  at  the  Exchequer. 

By  p.s. 

Pardon  to  Thomas  Burgh,  knight,  constable  of  the  king's  castle  of 
Lincoln,  of  all  offences  committed  by  him  and  all  escapes  of  felons  before 
8  July.  By  p.s. 

Membrane  6. 

Grant  to  Robert  Wotton,  the  guardian,  and  the  Friars  Minor  of  the 
town  of  Colcestre  of  the  king's  alms  and  out  of  regard  for  the  king's  aunt 
Isabel,  countess  of  E-;sex,  of  52  cartloads  of  underwood  yearly  in  the  king's 
forest  of  Kyngeswode,  co.  Essex,  for  their  fuel,  of  which  each  cartload  can 
be  drawn  by  six  horses  or  other  beasts,  by  the  supervision  of  the  king's 
officers  in  the  forest,  that  they  may  pray  for  the  good  estate  of  the  king  and 
his  consort  Elizabeth,  queen  of  England,  and  for  their  souls  after  death  and 
the  soul  of  the  king's  father  Ricliard,  late  duke  of  York,  and  keep  their 
obits  every  year.  And  they  shall  have  free  entry  into  the  forest  to  cut 
down  and  carry  away  the  underwood.  By  p.s. 

Grant  to  Richard  Arthur,  in  lieu  of  a  like  grant  to  him  by  letters  patent 
dated  27  P^ebruary,  5  Edward  JV.  surrendei-ed  because  invalid,  that  from 
Eiister,  7  Edward  IV.  so  long  as  he  holds  the  custody  of  the  lands  late  of 
Robert  Ken  in  the  county  of  Somerset  he  may  retain  26/.  yearly  out  of  the 
farm  of  46/.  175.  yearly  which  he  renders  to  the  king.  By  K. 

Grant  for  life  to  the  king's  servant  Roger  Hopton,  one  of  the  yeomen 
of  the  crown,  of  iSd.  daily  for  his  fee  from  Michaelmas  last  from  the  farm 
of  the  hundreds  of  Kyftesgate,  Holford  and  (Jreston  witli  the  fairs  and 
markets  in  the  town  of  Wynchccombe,  co.  Gloucester,  at  the  hands  of  the 
abbot  and  convent  of  Wynchecombe.  By  p.s. 

Mandate  in  pursuance  to  the  abbot  and  convent. 

Pardon  to  Thomas  Towe,  esquire,  late  escheator  in  the  counties  of  Kent 
and  Middlesex,  of  all  offences  committed  by  him  and  all  fines,  amercements, 
debts,  accounts  and  arrears  due  from  him  to  the  king.  By  p.s. 


9  EDWARD  IV.— Part  I. 


163 


1469.  Membrane  6 — cont. 

May  3.  Whereas  William,  earl  of  Pembroke,  before  the  justices  of  the  Bench  at 
Westminster.  Westminster  in  Michaelmas  Term,  8  Edward  IV.  by  writ  of  right  Precipe 
in  capite  directed  to  the  sheriff  of  Gloucester  recovered  against  John,  duke 
of  Norfolk,  the  castle,  manor,  lordship  and  borough  of  Chepstowe,  the 
manor  of  lierton  and  the  manor  and  lordship  of  Tudenham  with  their 
members  in  the  marches  of  Wales  and  the  county  of  Gloucester  adjacent, 
and  by  a  like  writ  directed  to  the  sheriff  of  Hereford  recovered  against 
William  Laken,  one  of  the  justices  of  the  King's  Bench,  Thomas  Lytelton, 
one  of  the  justices  of  the  Common  Bench,  Richard  Pygot,  one  of  the  king's 
Serjeants  at  law,  and  Roger  Touncsende  the  castle  and  manor  of  Swaneseye, 
the  lordship  or  land  of  Grower,  the  lordsliip  or  land  of  Kylvey,  the  castle 
and  manor  of  Oystermoutli,  the  castle  and  manor  of  Lloughour  and  the 
manors  of  Landymour,  Russcly,  Kythull,  Trewydna,  Lymon,  Pennard  and 
Westgower  in  the  marches  of  Wales  adjoining  the  said  county  of  Hereford 
and  is  at  present  in  seisin  and  possession  of  the  same,  the  king  hereby 
confirms  his  estate  in  the  same  to  him  and  his  heirs,  saving  to  the  king  the 
accustomed  rents,  customs  aiid  services. 

By  p.s.  and  for  10/.  paid  in  tbe  hanaper. 

June  3.         Grant  for  life   to  William    Bonifant,  clerk,  of   the   free   chapel  of 
Dogniersfiold.  St.  Margaret,  Ililberworth,  co.  Norfolk,  void  by  the  death  of  Thomas  Eyre, 
clerk,  last  incumbent.  J5y  p.s, 

June  20.  Appointment,  during  pleasure,  of  Roger  Ploweden  to  take  carpenters 
Westminster,  called  '  whelers  '  and  '  cartwrightes  '  and  other  carpenters,  stone-cutters, 
smiths,  plumbers  and  other  workm(!n  for  the  works  of  the  king's  ordnance 
and  bombards,  cannons,  culvcrins,  'fowlers,'  '  serpeutynes '  and  other 
cannons  and  sulphur,  powder,  '  saltpetyr,'  stone,  iron,  lead  and  other 
equipment  for  them,  cross-bows  and  bolts  lor  them,  bows,  arrows,  bowstaves, 
bowstrings,  '  langedebeves,'  lances, '  gleyves,'  hammers  and  other  necessaries 
and  horses  called  '  liakeneys  '  and  ships. 
The  like  of  the  following  : — 

William  Bygge. 
Richard  Lygliton. 
William  Colshull. 

John  Wode,  esquire,  master  of  the  ordnance. 

1470. 

March  3.  The  like  of  William  Temple. 
Westminster.      The  like  of  the  following  :— 

Robert  Lyly. 
Roger  Bekley. 

March  1.        Appointment,  during  pleasure,  of  Reginald  Yong  to  take  stone-cutters, 
Westminster,  masons,  plumbers,  tilers,  smiths  and  otlicr  Avorkmen  for  the  repairs  of  the 
king's  manor  of  Cliilternlangeley  and  elsewhere  within  the  realm  of 
England  and  stone,  timber,  iron,  lead,  tiles,  laths,  shingles,  boards  and  other 
necessaries. 


-j^^gg  Membrane  5. 

March  10.  Grant  in  frank  almoin  to  the  dean  and  canons  of  the  king's  free  chapel 
Westmiuster.  of  St.  Stephen  within  the  palace  of  Westminster  of  the  house,  mnnor  or 
alien  priory  of  Well(;s  nlias  the  manor  or  lordship  of  Wclhall,  co.  Norfolk, 
which  was  formerly  granted  by  William  de  Estois  to  the  church  and 
monks  of  St.  Stephen,  Caen,  in  Normandy  and  taken  into  the  hands  of 
Edward  III,  on  account  of  the  war  with  France,  to  hold  from  Michaelmas 
last  with  the  church  or  rectory  of  Gaiton  and  all  members,  manors. 

L  2 


164 


CALENDAR  OF  PATENT  EOLLS. 


1469.  Membrane  5 — cont. 

lands,  rents,  services,  knights'  fees,  advowsons,  wards,  marriages,  reliefs, 
escheats,  courts  leet,  hundreds,  rectories,  tenths,  alms,  pensions,  portions, 
liberties,  franchises  and  other  possessions  within  the  realm,  and  all  issues 
from  4  March,  1  Edward  IV,  that  they  may  pray  for  the  good  estate  of 
the  king  and  Elizabeth  his  consort  and  for  their  souls  after  death. 
\_Monasticon,  vi.  1011,]  By  p.s. 

April  24.  Licence,  for  6s.  8d.  paid  in  the  hanaper,  for  John  Thetylthorpe  to  grant 
^Ye!^tm:n?te^.  a  messuage,  two  tofts,  four  bovates  of  land,  16  acres  of  meadow,  19*. 

rent  and  a  rent  of  one  pound  of  cumin  in  Glentworth,  co.  Lincoln,  held  in 

chief,  to  John  Westefeld  of  Filyngham  and  his  heirs. 

April  24.  Pardon  to  Agnes  Osmond  the  wife  of  John  Osmond  late  of  Norwich, 
^^'estminste^.  <  laborer,'  alias  '  hosteler,'  for  the  murder  of  Thomas  Osmond  their  son. 

By  p.s. 

March  8.       Licence,  for  4  marks  paid  in  the  hanaper,  for  Thomas  Rogger,  Richard 
Westminster.  Culpepyr  and  Thomas  Norton  to  grant  the  manor  of  Traseys,  co.  Kent, 
held  in  chief,  to  Robert  Watton,  Joan  Clerk,  John  Clerk  the  younger, 
Walter  Clerk  and  Thomas  Burston  for  the  life  of  the  said  Joan. 

May  1*^.        Grant  for  life  to  Thomas  Wytliam  of  10/.  yearly  from  Easter  last,  viz. 
■\Yfstmmster.  7/.  from  the  fee  farms  of  the  town  of  Scardeburgh  and  the  manor  of 
Walgrave  and  60  acres  of  land  there  and  60*.  from  the  fee  farm  of  the  city 
of  York.  By  p.s. 

April  26.  Pardon  to  John  Wylkes  late  of  London,  *  draper  '  alias  '  tayllour,'  son 
Westminster,  of  William  Wylkes,  «Z/as  late  of  Chipstedc,  co.  Kent, 'gentilman,'  of  his 
outlawi  ies  in  Surrey,  London  and  the  county  of  Hereford  for  not  appearing 
before  the  justices  of  the  Bench  to  satisfy  Robert  Bote  of  4/.  which 
the  latter  recovered  against  him  and  265.  8d.  damages,  and  to  answer 
Henry  Dene,  citizen  and  tailor  of  London,  touching  a  debt  of  13/.  6s.  9d. 
William  Cardemaker,  citizen  and  grocer  of  London,  touching  a  debt  of  13/. 
and  William  Crofton  and  Alexander  Broun,  clerk,  touching  a  debt  of 
20/. ;  the  said  Robert  having  appeared  in  the  said  court  by  John  Miller, 
his  attorney,  and  acknowledged  himself  satisfied,  and  the  said  John  having 
surrendered  to  the  Flete  prison,  as  Robert  Danby,  chief  justice  of  the 
Bench,  has  certified. 

Aug.  IP.  Presentation  of  Robert  Blakwall,  chaplain,  to  the  church  of  Weston,  in 
Westminiiter.  the  diocese  of  Norwich,  void  by  the  death  of  Thomas  Asshe,  last  parson. 

Membrane  4. 

June  20.  Inspeximus  and  confirmation  to  the  abbot  and  convent  oT  Wynchecombe 
Westminster,  of  the  following  : — 

1.  Letters  patent  dated  8  February,    1  Richard  II.   inspecting  and 

confirming  the  following  : — 

(1.)  Letters  patent  dated  18  June,  22  Edward  III  inspecting 
and  confirming  the  followiuK  : — 

a.  A  charter  of  Henry  II. 

b.  A  charter  dated  at  Westminster,  14  May,  35  Henry  III. 

(2.)  Letters  patent  dated  12  June,  4  Edward  I. 
(3.)  Letters  patent  dated  16  June,  35  Edward  I. 

2.  A    charter    dated    at    Westminster,    11    June,    14  Richard  II. 

[Charter  Roll,  14  JRichard  If.  No.  7.] 

For  40s.  paid  in  the  hanaper. 


9  EDWARD  IV.— Part  I. 


1G5 


1469. 

June  8. 
Westminster. 


June  9. 
Westminster. 


July  11. 
Westminster. 

July  18. 
Westminster. 


Atig.  12. 
Westminster. 


Aug.  16. 

Westminster. 


Aug.  17. 
Westminster. 


Membrane  .3. 

Grant  for  life  to  the  king's  servitor  Edmund  White  of  the  office  of 
keeper  or  the  custody  of  the  king's  castles  of  Grenecastell  and  Carlyngford 
in  Ireland  and  all  customs  and  profits  from  Mowrne  and  from  all  ships  and 
boats  pertaining  to  the  custody  of  the  castles  with  all  other  accustomed 
profits,  receiving  the  rents,  customs  and  other  premises  at  his  own  hands  or 
the  hands  of  the  farmers,  receivers  or  other  occupiers  of  the  lordship  of 
Coli  there.  By  p.s. 

Grant  to  the  king's  servitor  Chri.stopher  Worsley,  esquire,  of  the  custody 
of  all  manors,  lands,  rents,  services  and  possessions  with  knights'  fees  and 
advowsons  late  of  John  Assheforde,  tenant  in  chief,  during  the  minority  of 
William  hia  son  and  heir  with  the  marriage  of  the  latter  without  disparage- 
ment, and  so  from  heir  to  heir,  finding  a  reasonable  sustenance  for  the  heir 
and  supporting  all  houses,  enclosures  and  edifices.  By  p.s. 

Pardon  to  William  Rossher  of  the  town  of  Calais  of  all  felonies,  murders, 
and  offences  committed  by  him  before  5  July.  By  p.s. 

Wiiereas  six  tallies  containing  the  sum  of  051/.  lately  levied  at  the 
receipt  of  the  Exchequer  at  Westminster  for  the  household  and  three  bills 
containing  the  sum  of  400/.  likewise  lately  levied  at  the  said  receipt  on 
Nicliolas  Sharp,  late  receiver  genoial  of  the  duciiy  of  Lancaster,  from  the 
issues  of  his  office  wore  assigned  lo  John  Fogge,  knight,  late  treasurer  of 
the  household,  for  his  office,  and  these  were  delivered  to  John  Weniok, 
knight,  lord  Weniok,  chief  butler  of  England,  and  William  Chattok, 
citizen  of  London,  his  deputy,  for  payment  of  divers  things  supplied  l)y 
them  to  the  v<alue  of  1,051/.  for  the  cx[)enses  of  the  household,  and  the  said 
John  and  William  delivered  the  tallies  and  bills  to  Uogor  Appelton, 
'  gentilnian,'  William  Korvcr  of  London  and  Kioiiard  Knyght  in  payment 
of  the  said  sum  of  1,051/.  in  which  they  were  indebted  to  them,  but  the 
said  Roger,  William  and  lii(;liard  have  received  no  i)ayment  and  have 
surrendered  the  said  tallies  and  bills  ;  the  king  grants  to  tiie  said  Roger, 
William  and  Richard  that  they  or  their  executors  after  their  decease  or 
their  factors  or  attorneys  may  ship  sacks  and  cloves  of  wool  a'ul  woolh^n 
clotiis  in  the  ports  of  London,  Sandwich  and  Suthampton  and  take  tho 
wools  by  tiie  straits  of  Marrok  and  the  woollen  cloths  to  any  foreign  i:arts 
quit  of  customs  and  subsidies  until  they  shall  be  fully  satisfied  of  tlie  said 
sum  of  1,051/.  By  p.s. 

Grant  for  life  to  tiie  king's  councillor  William  Ilastynges,  tlie  king's 
chainl)erlain,  of  the  oifices  of  the  king's  chamberlain  of  North  Wales  and 
the  counties  of  C'arnarvon,  Anglcsea  and  Merioimotli,  constable  of  the  king's 
castle  of  Beaumaris  and  captain  of  the  town  of  IJeaumaris  in  Anglesea, 
receiving  yearly  20/.  for  the  office  of  chamberlain,  40/.  for  the  office  of 
constable  and  20/.  for  the  office  of  captain  at  tho  cxchecpier  at  Carnarvon 
with  wages  oi  4d.  daily  at  the  said  exchequer  for  each  of  12  soldiers  for  the 
custody  of  the  castle  and  12  soldiers  for  the  custody  of  the  town  and  all 
other  accustomed  regards  and  profits  such  as  William  Herbert,  late  carl  of 
Pembroke,  or  he  himself  had  in  the  same  offices.  By  p.s. 

Appointment,  during  pleasure,  of  the  king's  councillor  John  Lang-;trother, 
knight,  prior  of  the  Ilospital  of  St.  John  of  Jerusalem  in  England,  us 
treasurer  of  England  with  all  rights,  regards  and  privileges.  By  p.s. 

Grant  for  life  to  the  king's  kinsman  Richard,  earl  of  Warwick  and 
Salisbury,  of  the  olBces  of  chief  juetice  of  South  Wales,  chamberlain  of 
South  Wales,  steward  of  tho  king's  commotes  at  Cantremawre,  forester  of 
the  forest  of  Glincoth  in  Soutii  Wales  and  constable  of  the  castle  of 
Kermerdyn  in  South  Wales,  in  the  king's  hands  by  the  death  of  William 
Herbert,  late  carl  of  Pembroke,  receiving  the  accustomed  fees.  [i^a?'/em.] 

By  p.s. 


166 


CALENDAR  OP  PATENT  ROLLS. 


]^4g9_  Membrane  3 — cont. 

The  like  to  the  said  earl  of  tlie  offices  of  constable  of  the  king's  castle  of 
Cardigan  and  steward  of  the  courts  and  commotes  in  the  counties  of 
Kermerdyn  and  Cardigan  in  South  Wales,  in  the  king's  hands  as  above, 
receiving  the  accustomed  fees.    \Fmdera.^  liy  p.s. 


Membrane  2. 

Aug.  28.        Grant,  during  pleasure,  to  John  Warde  of  the  office  of  tronage  and 
Westminster,  pesage  in  the  port  of  Suthampton  and  ports  and  places  adjacent,  receiving 
tlie  accustomed  fees.  By  bill  of  the  treasurer. 

The  like  to  the  following  in  the  ports  named  and  ports  and  places 
adjacent : — 

Aug.  30.  John  Abbot  in  the  port  of  London.  By  bill  of  the  treasurer. 

VVestmiuster. 

Aug.  26.  John  Boston  in  the  port  of  Boston.  By  bill  of  the  treasurer. 

Westminster. 

Aug.  26.  Ralph  Kyngeston  in  the  port  of  Ipsv^fich.        By  bill  of  the  treasurer. 

Westminster. 

Aug.  28.  John  Browne  in  the  port  of  Newcastle  on  Tyne. 

Westminster.  By  bill  of  the  treasurer. 

Nov.  4.  John  Draper  in  the  port  of  London.  By  bill  of  the  treasurer. 

W<;i;tmin!Ster. 

Nov.  5.  Thomas  Banke  in  the  port  of  Boston.  By  bill  of  the  treasurer. 

Westminster. 

Nov.  9.  Richard  Cowton  in  the  port  of  Kyngeston  on  Hull. 
Westminster.  By  bill  of  the  treasurer. 

Nov.  28.  John  Gray,  esquire,  in  the  port  of  Suthampton. 

Westminster.  By  bill  of  the  treasurer. 

Aug.  29.  Grant,  during  pleasure,  to  John  Eyerby  of  the  oflice  of  ganger  in  the 
Westminster,  port  of  Bristol  and  ports  and  places  adjacent,  receiving  tlie  accustomed  fees. 

By  bill  of  the  treasurer. 

Tiie  like  of  the  following  in  the  ports  named  and  ports  and  places 
adjacent : — 

"  Sei)t.  18.  John  Williamson  in  the  port  of  Kyngeston  on  Hull. 

Westminster.  By  bill  of  the  treasurer. 

Aug.  25.  John  Forest  in  the  port  of  Southampton.         By  bill  of  the  treasurer. 

Westminster. 

Nov.  9.  Thomas  Assh  in  the  port  of  Suthampton.         By  bill  of  the  treasurer. 

Westminster. 

May  G.         Appointment,  during  pleasure,  of  John  Swancote  as  surveyor  of  the 
Westminster,  scrutiny  in  the  port  of  Bristol  and  ports  and  places  adjacent,  receiving  the 
accustomed  fees.  By  bill  of  the  treasurer. 

Nov.  12.  The  like  of  Ralph  Assheton,  knight,  in  tiie  port  of  Kyngeston  on  Hull 
Westminster,  and  ports  and  places  adjacent.  By  bill  of  the  treasurer. 


Membrane  1. 

July  14.        Licence  for  Thomas,  viscount  Lysle,  to  enter  freely  into  all  castles,  lord- 
\\'cstniiustcr.  ships,  manors,  lands,  rents,  reversions,  services,  fees,  views  of  frank-pledge, 
courts  leet,  knights'  fees,  warrens,  parks,  fisheries,  fairs,  markets,  advow- 
sons  and  other  possessions  in  England,  Wales,  the  marches  of  Wales  and 


9  EDWARD  IV.— Part  I. 


167 


1469. 


Aug.  25. 

Westminster. 


Aug.  24. 
Westminster. 


Sept.  1. 
Westminster. 

Aug.  26. 
Westminster. 

Aug.  23. 

Westminster. 

Nov.  8. 

Westminster. 

Nov.  9. 
Westminster. 

Nov.  9. 
Westminster. 

Nov.  9. 
Westminster. 

Nov.  9. 
Westminster. 

Nov.  13. 

Westminster. 

Nov.  18. 

Westminster. 

Nov.  20. 
Westminster. 

Nov.  29. 

Westminster. 

Dec.  7. 
Westminster. 


Membrane  1 — conl. 

Ireland  of  which  John  Talbot,  knight,  viscount  Lysle,  his  father,  and  Joan 
his  wife  and  Margaret,  late  countess  of  Shrewsbury,  his  grandmother,  or 
any  other  ancestor  of  his  were  seised,  and  which  should  descend  to  him. 

By  p.s. 

Whereas  William  Broun  and  Alice  his  wife  at  Easter,  3  Edward  IV. 
before  Robert  Danby  and  his  fellows,  justices  of  the  Bench,  at  Westminster, 
recovered  against  William  Coi  tenhalo  of  Coventre,  '  chapman,'  a  sealed 
coffer  containing  charters,  writings  and  other  muniments,  and  damages  to 
the  amount  of  201.  by  jury  of  the  city  of  London,  with  a  provision  of  100 
marks  in  case  they  did  not  get  delivery  of  the  coffer,  and  afterwards  the 
said  William  Broun  by  the  name  of  William  Browen  of  London  was 
outlawed  in  Coventry  on  Tuesday  before  St.  George  the  Martyr, 
9  Edward  IV.  for  not  appearing  before  the  king  at  Westminster  at 
Michaelmas,  8  Edward  IV.  to  satisfy  liini  of  his  ransom  for  a  trespass 
against  William  Briscowo  and  William  llaloughton  of  which  he  was 
convicted  by  a  jury  of  the  city  of  Coventry;  the  king  hereby  pardons  to 
the  said  William  Cortenhale  all  that  pertains  to  him  of  the  said  20/.  and 
100  marks.  By  p.s. 

Vacated  because  otherwise  below. 

Appointment,  during  pleasure,  of  Nicholas  Waren  as  controller  of  the 
great  and  petty  custom,  the  subsidy  of  wools,  hides  and  wool-fells  and  the 
subsidy  of  the  35.  in  the  tun  and  the  12</.  in  the  pound  in  the  port  of 
Bristol  and  ports  and  places  adjacent,  receiving  the  accustomed  fees, 
provided  that  he  execute  the  olBco  in  person,  with  the  custody  of  one  part 
of  the  cokct  seal.  By  bill  of  the  treasurer. 

The  like  of  the  following  in  the  ports  named  and  ports  and  places 
adjacent : — 

Thomas  Gylle  in  the  ports  of  Exeter  and  Dcrtmouth. 

By  bill  of  the  treasurer. 

Richard  Felawe  in  the  port  of  Ipswich.  By  bill  of  the  treasurer. 

Philip  Lowys  in  the  port  of  Southampton.  By  bill  of  the  treasurer. 
John  Rotherham  in  the  port  of  Sandwich.  By  bill  of  the  treasurer. 
Edmund  Wydewell  in  tlie  port  of  Jernemutli. 

By  bill  of  the  treasurer. 

John  Don  in  the  port  of  Bristol.  By  bill  of  the  treasurer. 

Richard  Bolton  in  the  port  of  Boston.  By  bill  of  the  treasurer. 

John  Feryby  in  the  port  of  Kyugeston  on  Hull. 

By  bill  of  the  treasurer. 

William  Brandon  in  the  port  of  Ipswich.  By  bill  of  the  treasurer. 

Thomas  Gray,  esquire,  in  the  port  of  Suthampton. 

By  bill  of  the  treasurer. 

John  Nanby  in  the  port  of  Pole.  By  bill  of  the  treasurer. 

John  Rokys  in  the  port  of  Briggewater.  By  bill  of  the  treasurer. 

John  Flemmyng  in  the  ports  of  Exeter  and  Dertmouth. 

By  bill  of  the  treasurer. 


168 


CALENDAR  OF  PATENT  ROLLS, 


1469.  Membrane  1 — cont 

Aug.  24.        The  like  of  Ambrose  Grysacre  as  controller  of  the  great  custom  and 
Westminster,  the  su))sidy  of  wools,  hides  and  wool- fells  in  the  port  of  London  and  ports 
and  places  adjacent.  By  bill  of  the  treasurer. 

Aug.  21.  The  like  of  Richard  Passemere  as  controller  of  the  petty  custom  and 
Westminster,  the  subsidy  of  the  3s.  in  the  tun  and  \2d.  in  the  pound  in  the  same. 

By  bill  of  the  treasurer. 

Sept.  18.  The  like  of  Robert  Syrnson  as  controller  of  the  great  custom  and  the 
Westminster,  subsidy  of  wools,  hides  and  wool-fells  in  the  same. 

By  bill  of  the  treasurer. 

Nov.  4.  The  like  of  John  Stodard  as  controller  of  the  great  custom  and  the 
Westminster,  subsidy  of  wools,  hides  and  wool-fells  in  the  same. 

By  bill  of  the  treasurer. 

1470. 

Feb.  9.  The  like  of  Richard  Sutton  as  controller  of  the  subsidy  of  the  3s.  in 
Westminster,  the  tun  and  the  \2d.  in  the  pound  in  the  same.        By  bill  of  the  treasurer. 

*  Membranes  24d — 21d'. 

Commissions  of  the  peace  in  various  counties.    (See  Appendix.) 


1469.  Membrane  18d. 

March  26.      Commission  to  the  king's  kinsman  Edmund,  earl  of  Kent,  and  John 
Dogmersfield.  Broughton,  Thomas  Reynes,  AVi.liam  Pek  and  the  sheriff  of  Bedford  to 
enquire   into  the  counterfeiting,  clipping,  sweating,  and  falsification  of 
money  in  the  county  of  Bedford. 

March  11.  Tlie  king  lately  by  letters  patent  (see  p.  101)  appointed  William 
Westminster.  Bourghchier  of  Fitzwaren,  knight,  Richard  Chok,  knight,  John  Gyfford, 
Thomas  Dowerissh,  John  Orchard,  John  Denys,  John  Aps  the  elder, 
William  Spr^'gge,  William  Duke,  Richard  Morton  the  elder,  Walter 
Gayncot,  Richard  Getferey  and  Philip  Beaumond,  then  sheriff  of  Devon,  to 
enquire  into  a  complaint  of  John  May  of  Bristol,  merchant,  concerning  a 
ship  of  his  called  le  Raphaell  of  Bristol ;  and  now  on  the  ^jart  of  the  said 
John  May  it  has  been  shown  that  although  bj'^  an  inquisition  taken  by 
virtue  of  the  said  letters  before  the  said  John  Orchard,  SValter  and  Philip 
at  Barne.staple,  co.  Devon,  on  25  August  last  it  was  found  that  the  said  ship 
was  laden  at  Dansk  in  Prussia  with  divers  goods  and  uierchandise  to  t;ike 
to  Bristol  and  came  safely  to  England  and  cerlain  merchants  and  mariners 
landed  from  the  ship,  viz.  Thomas  Baker  and  Richard  Laken  at  Grimisby, 
CO.  Lincoln,  Thomas  Laweles  and  John  Yonge  at  Holderne.^,  co.  York, 
Edward  Kyte,  John  Bowton  and  James  Beitram  at  Kyngeston  on  Hull  and 
Peter  Forstali,  William  Chekes,  Clement  Hyll,  William  Bowyer,  John 
Saunders  and  Thomas  Kayser  at  Sandwich,  co.  Kent,  and  the  remainder 
sailed  towards  the  port  of  Bristol  but  by  a  vehement  tempest  were 
compelled  to  wait  in  Bedebay  within  the  county  of  Devon  (iic)  70  miles 
within  the  river  Severn  and  I'rom  the  sea  and  there  dropped  their  anchors, 
which  could  not  hold  the  ship,  and  cut  away  the  mast  of  the  ship,  but 
nevertheless  the  ship  was  driven  ashore  near  Kilkampton  on  the  confines  of 
the  counties  of  Devon  and  Cornwall  on  Friday  after  St.  Martin  then  last  past, 
the  said  John  May  and  the  merchants  being  then  on  land,  and  Richard  Horlok 
and  Thomas  Don  and  other  mariners  who  were  on  the  ship  at  the  time 
came  alive  to  land,  and  divers  goods  and  merchandise  in  the  ship  came 
into  the  hands  of  divers  persons,  viz.  24  barrels  of  pitch  and  bitumen  and 
200  '  waynscotes '  to  the  value  of  18/.  of  the  goods  of  John  Gregory, 


EDWARD  IV.— Part  L 


1G9 


|4g9_  Membrane  \8fl — coiit. 

'yotnaii,'  one  of  the  mercbants  of  tlic  ship,  to  the  han  ls  of  John  Dodecote 
of  tlie  parish  of  Tauton  Bisshop,  co.  Devon,  300  '  bowestaves'  to  the  value 
of  20/.  of  the  goods  of  the  said  John  May  to  the  hands  of  Patrick  Bowyer 
of  Exeter,  '  yoman,'  and  a  counter  ;uk1  four  tables  of  Prussia  to  the  value 
of  24Z.  of  the  g'oods  of  John  (jaywode,  one  of  the  merchants  of  the  ship,  to 
the  hands  of  Philip  Waiberton  a/ia.^  Wiirmyngton  of  Barnestaple,  ami 
divers  other  persons  in  those  parts  carried  oS  and  dis{)o^cd  of  the  other 
goods  and  the  gear  of  the  ship  to  the  value  of  1,000/.  that  were  cast  ashoi  e, 
although  they  were  not  wreck,  nevertheless  the  said  Jolui  Dodecote, 
Patrick  and  Philip  Warbertou  refuse  to  deliver  up  the  goods  that  came  into 
their  hands.  Tiie  king  acconlingly  commissions  Humphrey  StalFord  of 
Suthwyk,  knight,  the  said  I'hilip  IJoaumond  and  Cliristopiier  Worsley  to 
enquire  into  whose  hands  tiie  other  goods  and  gear  came  and  to  cause  tlie 
said  John,  Patrick  and  Philip  and  others  tu  make  restitution  and  to  imprison 
such  as  refuse. 

April  20.  Commission  to  Master  John  Alcok  and  Master  John  Peso,  doctors  of 
Westminster,  law,  William  Hampton  and  IJartliolomew  Jamys,  citizens  and  fildermen 
of  London,  and  Master  Michael  Carvanell,  bachelor  of  law,  to  hear  and 
determine  an  appeal  by  Thomas  Spicei',  citizen  and  merchant  of  Clii'diester, 
against  a  judgement  of  Master  John  Aleyn,  doctor  of  law,  lieutenant  or 
commissioner  of  the  constable  of  England,  in  an  action  for  debt  before 
liim  between  William  Curteys,  plaintiff,  and  the  said  Thomas,  defendant, 
because  the  said  commissioner  refused  matters  proposed  by  the  said 
Thomas  questioning  liis  jurisdicti(m  on  the  ground  that  the  pretended 
contract,  on  which  the  action  was  brouglit,  was  ma  le  in  England  and  not 
beyond  the  seas. 


Membrane  I6d. 

April  20.       Commission  to  Christopher  Worsley,  es(iuire,  William  llaskemer,  esquire, 
Westminster.  John  Arundell,  esquire,  William   Bere,  Oto  Trefuses,  Thomas  Clemens, 
John  Kemp  and  the  sheriff  to  encjuire  what  lauds  Eleanor,  late  duchess  of 
JSomerset,  held  iu  the  county  of  Cornwall. 


Membrane  14rf. 

March  17.       Commission  de  walliis  et  fossatis  to  WilUam  Tyrell,  knight,  Thomas 
Westminster.  Urs«  yk,  Humphrey  Stcrky,  Robert  Molyneux,  Morgan  Hotiller,  William 
Corun,  William  Taverncr,  Thomas  Hunifrey  and  Thomas  Lute  from  the 
town  anti  parish  of  Esthamme  to  Ilorndon  and  from  thence  to  Hokkley  and 
from  thence  to  Tollesbury  and  Wyggebergh  in  the  county  of  Essex. 

May  5.  The  like  to  W.  bishop  of  Ely,  George,  duke  of  Clarence,  John,  earl  of 
Westminster.  Northumberland,  Antony  Wydevyle  of  Scales,  knight,  William  Yelverton, 
knight,  Robert  Wyngfeld,  knight, Thomas  Grey,  John  Twyer,  JohnFyncham, 
Roger  Townesende,  Thomas  Danyell  and  Thomas  Derliam  in  the  parts  of 
Mershlande,  Upwell  and  Outwell  and  other  towns  and  marshes  between 
the  water  leading  from  Erithbrigge  by  Ely,  Walterslode  and  Wvgenall  to 
Bishop's  Lenn  and  the  water  leading  from  Erithbrigge  by  Henwyk, 
Gretecrosse  and  Wyssebeche  to  the  sea  in  the  counties  of  Norfolk  and 
Cambridge. 

Aug.  30.        The  like  to  W.  bishop  of  Ely,  George,  duke  of  Clarence,  Richard,  carl 
Westminster,  of  Warwick  and  Salisbury,  John,  call  of  Oxford,  John,  earl  of  Northum- 
berland, WiUiam  Yelverton,  knight,  John  Paston,  knight,  John  Colvyle, 
knight,  Richard  Roos,  John  Knyvet,  William  Paston,  John  Twyer,  John 
Fyncham,  Roger  Tounesende,  William  Skipwyth,  Thomas  Danyell  and 


170 


CALENDAE  OF  PATENT  ROLLS. 


Memhrane  Wd — cont. 

Thomas  Derham  in  the  parts  of  Mershland,  Upwell  and  Outwell  and 
other  towns  and  marshes  between  the  water  leading  from  Erithbrigge  by 
Ely,  Salterslade  and  VVygenali  to  Bishop's  Lenn  and  the  water  leading 
from  Erithbrigge  to  Benewyke  and  from  theuce  to  Padokkeswere  and  so  to 
Farsetbrigge  and  from  thence  to  Staundground  and  so  to  Muscote  and  from 
thence  to  Thorney  Mille  and  Godelakescrosse  and  by  Nomansloud  and  from 
thence  to  Dowesdale  and  so  to  Clowsecrosse  and  from  thence  by  the  old 
sewer  to  Tydherne  and  to  the  sea,  in  the  counties  of  Norfolk  and  Cambridge. 

The  like  to  W.  bishop  of  Ely,  George,  duke  of  Clarence,  Richard,  earl 
of  Warwick  and  Salisbury,  John,  earl  of  Northumberland,  John,  earl  of 
Oxford,  Humphrey  Bourgchier  of  Cromwell,  knight,  John  Catesby,  William 
Jeniiey,  Thomas  Gray,  Roger  Tounesende,  Henry  Spilman,  Thomas  Danyell, 
William  Husey,  Richard  Wei  by,  Richard  Pyncliebek,  Robert  Dockyng, 
Simon  Hareby,  William  Fairfax,  John  Wakerley  and  Oliver  Seyntjohn  in 
the  parts  of  Mersshlond,  Upwell  and  Outwell  and  other  towns  and  marches 
by  the  water  leading  from  Eirithbrigge  to  Benewyk  and  from  thence  to 
Paddokwere  and  so  to  Farsetbrige  and  from  thence  to  Standground  and  so 
to  Muscote  and  from  thence  to  Thorney  Mille  and  Godelakcrosse  by 
Nomansloude  and  I'rom  thence  to  Dowysdale  and  so  to  Clowecrosse  and  from 
thence  to  Wylowedyke  and  from  thence  to  Edgreynes  and  from  thence  to 
Tyde  Gote  and  so  to  the  sea  in  the  couutiea  of  Norfolk  and  Cambridge. 

24,69,  Membrane  lid. 

June  14.       Commission  to  Robert  Iseham  to  enquire  what  lauds  Henry  Brounflete, 
Westminster,  knight,  late  lord  Vessy,  held  in  the  county  of  Bedford  on  the  day  of  his 
death. 

Membrane  lOd. 

May  1.3.  Commission  to  the  king's  kinsman  Richard,  earl  of  Rivers,  William 
Westminster.  Hastynges  of  Hastynges,  knight,  John  Stafford,  knight,  John  Catesby, 
sergeant  at  law,  John  Dyve  and  Robert  Isham  to  enquire  into  divers 
treasons,  insurrections,  felonies  and  other  offences  committed  in  the  county 
of  Northampton  by  Thomas  Taillour  of  Pokebroke  in  the  parish  of 
Oundell,  co.  Northampton.  By  K. 

Membrane  9d. 

May  22.  General  commission  of  oyer  and  terminer  throughout  the  realm  to  the 
Dogmersfield.  king's  kinsmen  Richard,  earl  of  Warwick  and  Salisbury,  great  chamberlain 
of  England,  Henry,  earl  of  Essex,  steward  of  the  household,  and  Richard, 
earl  of  Ry  vers,  treasurer  of  England,  and  William  Hastynges  of  Hastynges, 
knight,  Thomas  Billyng,  Robert  Danby,  knight,  Richard  Illyngworth, 
knight,  William  Yelverton,  knight,  Richard  Byngham,  knight,  William 
Laken,  Richard  Nele,  Walter  Moile,  knight,  John  Nedeham,  knight, 
Richard  Chok,  knight,  Thomas  Littelton  and  Thomas  Yonge.  By  K. 

Commission  of  oyer  and  terminer  to  the  king's  brothers  George,  duke  of 
Clarence,  and  Richard,  duke  of  Gloucester,  the  king's  kinsman  John,  duke 
of  SufEolk,  Richard,  earl  of  Warwick  and  Salisbury,  William,  earl  of 
Arundel,  Henry,  earl  of  Essex,  John,  earl  of  Shrewsbury,  Richard,  earl  of 
Ryvers,  William,  earl  of  Pembroke,  and  Humphrey,  earl  of  Devon,  and 
Anthony  Wydevile  of  Scales,  knight,  Henry  Fitzhugh  of  Fitzhugh,  knight, 
John  Audeley  of  Audeley,  knight,  John  Scrop  of  Bolton,  knight,  John 


14G9. 


1470. 

March  1. 
Westminster. 


9  EDWARD  IV.— Part  I. 


in 


1469,  Membrane  9d — cont. 

Sutton  of  Dudley,  knight,  John  Boui-nihchier  ofBerners,  knight,  Humphrey 
Rourghchier  of  Cromwell,  knight,  lialph  Greystok  of  Greystok,  knight, 
William  Hastynges  of  Hastynges,  knight,  Walter  Devereux  of  Ferrers, 
kniglit,  Robert  Ogle  of  Ogle,  knight,  Walter  Blount  of  Mountjoye,  knight, 
Thomas  Byllyng,  Robert  Dauby,  knight,  Richard  lUyngworth,  knight, 
William  Yelverton,  knight,  Richard  Byngham,  knight,  William  Laken, 
Richard  Nele,  Walter  Moile,  knight,  John  Nedeham,  knight,  Richard 
Chok,  knight,  Thomas  Lytelton,  Thomas  Yonge,  Thomas  Burgh,  knight, 
and  John  Howard,  kniglit,  within  the  counties  of  York,  Cumberland  and 
Westmoreland  and  the  city  of  York.  By  K. 

Membrane  8d. 

May  22.         Commission  to  the  king's  kinsman  Humphrey,  earl  of  Devon,  Philip 
Doginersfield.  Berumond,  Christopher  Worseley,  John  Kcndale,  Thomas  Moleyus  ami 
Henry  Bremelcombe  to  cause  restitution  to  be  made  of  certain  goods  and 
gear  to  John  May  of  Bristol  and  others  (as  on  in.  18(/). 

Membrane  bd. 

July  12.         Commission  to  Walter  Moyle,  knight,  Thomas  Y'ong  and  John  Wyde- 
Westminster.  slade  to  enquire  into  certain  treasons  and  felonies  committed  by  Robert 
Kene  of  Ayspryngton,  co.  Devon,  '  yoman,'  William  Spencer  of  Tottenys, 
CO.  Devon,  '  yoman,'  and  Bartholomew  Exhall  late  of  Colyford,  co  Devon, 
within  the  said  county. 

Membrane  Zd. 

Aug.  8.  Commission  to  Master  Henry  Sharp,  Master  John  Alcok  and  Master 
Westminster.  William  Pykenham,  doctors  of  law,  George  Irelond  and  John  Crosby, 
citizens  and  aldermen  of  London,  William  Corbet,  Thomas  Graunt  and 
William  Baldry  to  hear  and  determine  an  appeal  by  William  Overey  and 
William  Jlose,  citizens  and  merchants  of  London,  against  a  judgment  in  a 
maritime  case  before  Master  AVilliam  Godyor,  doctor  of  law,  lieutenant  or 
commissioner  of  the  king's  brother  Richard,  duke  of  Gloucester,  admiral  of 
England  and  Aquitainc,  in  the  court  o(  Admiralty  between  John  Heyward, 
plaintitr,  and  the  said  William  and  William,  dcl'endants. 

Aug.  14.  Commission  to  the  justices  of  the  peace  in  the  county  of  Devon  and 
Westminster.  William  Courtcnny,  knight,  Thomas  Fulford,  knight,  Henry  Bodrngan, 
esquire,  Philij)  Courtenay,  escpiire,  William  S[)regge,  John  Rovvclond,  John 
Snape,  John  Elyot  of  Ayssheperton,  William  Elyot  of  Bukfastlegh  and  the 
sheriff  of  the  county  to  go  in  person  to  the  abbey  of  St.  Mary,  Bokelond 
Monachorum,  co.  Devon,  of  the  Cistercian  order,  and  remove  Thomas 
Olyver,  lato  abbot,  William  Lobbc  late  of  Bokelond  Monachorum, 
'gentilman,'  John  Skirwith  late  of  the  same,  '  scolemaister,'  John  Creston 
of  Notelegh,  'yoman,'  liichard  Dunrygge  late  of  Bokelond  Monachorum 
the  elder,  'fuller,'  John  Olyver  of  tiie  same,  'yoman,'  Thomas  Cornyssh  of 
the  same,  '  yonuin,'  John  Phel[)cs  late  of  the  same  tlie  cider,  *  husbontiman,' 
John  Pliclpes  late  of  the  same  the  younger,  '  yoman,'  John  Rawe  late 
of  the  same,  '  husbondman,'  and  Nicholas  Lolle  late  of  the  same,  '  marchaunt,' 
who  have  gathered  together  a  I'oice  and  hold  the  abbey  and  i)reveut 
William  Breton,  who  has  been  promoted,  ordained  and  instituted  abbot  and 
confirmed  by  the  general  cliapter  of  the  order,  from  obtaining  possession, 
and  waste  the  goods,  jewels  and  ornaments  of  the  abbey,  and  to  put  the 


172 


CALENDAR  OF  PATENT  ROLLS. 


1469.  Membrane  Sd — cont. 

said  William  Breton  into  possession  and  arrest  and  imprison  any  who 
resist, 

Aug.  25.       Commission  to  Thomas  Yonge,  Philip  Mecle,  mayor  of  Bristol,  and 
Westniiuster.  Nicholas  Hervy  to  enquire  into  certain  felonies,  riots,  extortions,  oppressions 
and  other  offences  couimitLed  by  John  Swiincote  of  Bristol,  '  yoinan,' and 
Walter  Holder  of  Bristol,  '  yoman,'  within  the  said  town  and  the  liberty  of 
the  same. 


Membrane  Id. 

Sept.  13.       Commission  of  array  (o  Walter  i^evereux  of  Ferrers,  knight,  within  the 
Westminster,  parts  of  South  Wales  and  the  connties  of  Gloucester,  Worcester  and 
Hereford. 


173 


9  EDWARD  IV.— Part  II. 


1469. 
Oct.  17. 

Westminster. 


Oct.  19. 
Westminster. 

Oct.  21. 
Westminster. 

Oct.  20. 
Westminster. 


Sept.  1. 
Westminster. 


Oct.  25. 
Westminster. 


Membrane  22. 

Crant  for  life  to  John  Dynhani,  lord  of  Dynham,  of  the  custody  of  the 
forest  of  Dertmore  and  the  manor  of  Lydfonl  with  the  horough  and  castle 
of  Lydford  and  the  manor  of  Suthteygne,  co.  Devon,  with  views  of  frank- 
pledge, knights'  fees,  advowsons,  wards,  marriages,  reliefs,  escheats,  waif, 
stray  and  other  profits  and  appurtenanL-es,  rendering  to  the  king  yearly 
100  marks  6*.  Hd.  and  lOOs.  of  increment  and  supporting  the  houses, 
enclosures,  buildings  and  other  charges,  the  repair  of  the  said  ca.stle  and 
fees,  wages  and  annuities  excepted.  By  p.p. 

The  like  to  the  same  of  the  office  of  steward  of  the  borough  and  manor 
of  Bradenyiichc  a/ins  Bradeny.sshe,  and  all  other  manors  and  lands  in  the 
county  of  Devon  in  the  king's  hands  as  parcel  of  the  duchy  of  Cornwall 
and  the  office  of  waiden  of  the  stannaries  in  the  county  of  Devon,  receiving 
20/.  yearly  from  the  issues  of  the  saiil  borougli  or  manor  of  Bradenynche 
with  all  other  profits.  By  p.s. 

Presentation  of  William  Cimuntry  to  the  parish  church  of  Scraiyngham, 
in  the  diocese  of  York,  void  by  the  death  of  Christopher  Burgh,  last 
incumbent.  By  K. 

Licence  for  the  prior  and  convent  of  the  monastery  of  Westminster  near 
London  to  elect  an  abbot  in  the  place  of  George,  late  abbot,  deceased. 

By  p.s. 

Grant  for  life  to  the  king's  servant  Thomas  Moiigomery,  one  of  the 
knights  of  the  body,  of  the  office  of  constable  of  the  king's  castle  of  the 
town  of  Bristol,  with  power  to  nominate  under  him  a  porter  and  two 
watclinien,  recieiving  20/.  yearly  for  tiie  office  of  constalilo  ard  2d.  daily 
for  the  wages  of  the  porter  and  .fJ.  daily  and  }^d.  nightly  for  the  wa<»es  of 
the  watchmen  from  the  farm  and  issues  of  the  town  of  Bristol,  with  all 
other  profits,  as  Humphrey  Stafford  of  Suthwyk,  knight,  late  earl  of  Devon, 
or  any  one  else  had  in  the  office.  By  p.s. 

Grant  for  life  to  William  Broun,  clerk,  master  of  the  free  chapel  of 
St.  Miiry  called  'le  Hermitage'  in  the  waste  of  the  king's  forest  of 
Blakmore,  co.  Dorset,  of  the  yearly  pension  or  annuity  of  52s.  2d.  with 
which  the  chapel  is  charged  to  the  king,  of  which  lOrf.  is  payable  at 
the  Exchequer  by  the  hands  of  the  sheriff  of  the  county  and  13s.  Id.  to 
the  bailiffs  of  the  king's  manor  of  Fordyngton  for  the  Ujc  of  the  duke  of 
Cornwall,  that  he  may  pray  for  the  good  e.-tate  of  the  king  and  his  consort 
Elizabeth,  queen  of  England,  and  for  their  souls  after  death  and  the  souls 
of  the  king's  progenitors.  By  p.s. 

Pardon  to  Thomas  Laxton  of  Lamborn,  co.  Essex,  *  yoman,'  alias  of 
Abrigge,  co.  Essiix,  of  his  outlawries  in  London  and  Middlesex  for  not 
appearing  before  John  Prysot  and  his  fellows,  justices  of  the  Bench  of  the 
late  king,  to  answer  Thomas  Leventhorp  touching  a  debt  of  10/.,  and 
before  the  justices  of  the  Bench  of  the  present  king  to  satisfy  the  king  of 
his  ransom  for  not  holding  John  Bromley  late  of  Sabrchford,  co.  Esse.x, 
'  husbondman,'  before  the  said  John  Prysot  and  his  fellovvs  at  a  certain  day 
to  answer  Kichard  More  on  a  plea  of  debt,  as  he  made  mainprise,  he 
having  surrendered  to  the  Fletc  prison,  as  Robert  Danby,  chief  justice  of 
the  Bench,  has  certified. 


174 


CALENDAR  OF  PATENT  ROLLS. 


1469.  Membrane  22 — cont. 

Nov.  7.        Presentation  of  John  Banastre  to  the  parish  church   of  Papworth 
Westminster.  Everarde,  in  the  diocese  of  Ely,  void  by  the  resignation  of  William 
Cliauntry,  last  parson. 


Membrane  21. 


Nov.  4. 
Westminster. 


Nov.  14. 
Westminster. 


Nov.  18. 

Westminster. 


July  20. 

Westminster. 


Nov.  23. 

Westminster. 


Grant  to  the  king's  kinsman  John,  earl  of  Northumberland,  for 
1,000  marks  paid  at  the  receipt  of  tlie  Exchequer  in  the  year  5  Edward  IV. 
of  the  custody  of  all  castles,  loi-dships,  manors,  lands,  rents,  services, 
reversions  and  other  possessions  with  advowsons  of  churches  late  of  Ralph 
Grey,  knight,  tenant  in  chief,  during  the  minority  of  Thomas,  Lis  sou 
and  heir,  and  the  custody  and  marringe  of  the  latter  without  disparage- 
ment, and  so  from  heir  to  heir,  finding  a  competent  sustenance  for  the 
heir.  By  p.s. 

Whereas  William  Broun  and  Alice  his  wife  at  Easter,  3  Edward  IV, 
before  Robert  Danby  and  his  fellows,  justices  of  the  Bench,  at  Westminster, 
recovered  against  William  Cortenale  of  Coventry,  '  chapman,'  a  sealed 
coffer  containing  charters,  writings  and  other  muniments  and  damages  to 
the  amount  of  20/.  by  jury  of  the  city  of  London,  with  a  provision  of 
100  marks  in  case  they  did  not  get  delivery  of  the  coffer,  and  afterwards 
the  said  William  Cortenale  was  outlawed  in  London  on  Monday  after 
St.  Maur  the  Abbot,  3  Edward  IV.  for  not  appenring  before  the  said 
justices  at  Westminster  at  Midsummer,  3  Edward  IV.  to  satisfy  the  said 
William  and  Alice  of  the  said  100  marks,  and  afterwards  the  said  William 
Broun  by  the  name  of  Williiim  Broun  of  London  was  outlawed  in  Coventry 
on  Tuesday  before  St.  George  the  Martyr,  9  Edward  IV.  for  not  appearing 
before  the  king  at  Westminster  at  Michaelmas,  8  Edward  IV.  to  satisfy 
him  of  his  ransom  for  a  trespass  against  William  Briscowe  and  William 
HalowtoQ  of  which  he  was  convicted  by  a  jury  of  the  city  of  Coventry; 
the  king  hereby  pardons  to  the  said  William  Cortenale  all  that  pertains  to 
him  of  the  said  20Z.  ami  100  marks  and  also  the  outlawry  aforesaid. 

By  p.s. 

Grant  for  life  to  Joan  Courtenay  of  the  manors  of  Columpjohn,  Fareway, 
Chalvelegh  and  Musbury  and  the  borough  of  Chalvelegh  and  all  lands, 
rents  and  services  in  Oolump  John,  Fareway,  Chalvelegh,  Musbury, 
Pontisford  and  Pattebroke,  co.  Devon,  with  knights'  fees,  advowsons, 
wards,  marriages,  reliefs,  escheats,  parks,  warrens,  courts  leet,  liberties, 
franchises  and  other  commodities,  bite  of  Humphrey  Stafford,  earl  of  Devon, 
lord  Stafford  of  Suthwyke,  knight,  and  in  the  king's  hands  because  he  died 
without  issue  and  because  of  the  forfeiture  of  Thomas  Courtenay,  late  earl 
of  Devon,  by  reason  of  an  act  in  Parliament  at  Westminster,  4  November, 
1  Edward  IV.  to  hold  by  the  accustomed  services.  By  p.s. 

Pardon  to  William  Hyde  of  Stepell  Moreden,  co.  Cambridge,  esquire, 
alias  William  Hide  late  of  London,  late  escheator  in  the  counties  of 
Oxford  and  Berks,  of  all  offences  committed  by  him  before  11  July  and 
all  fines,  issues,  debts,  accounts  and  arrears  due  from  him  to  the  king. 

By  p.s. 

Grant  to  the  king's  kinswoman  Anne,  countess  of  Pembroke,  of  the 
custody  of  all  castles,  lordships,  manors,  lands,  rents,  services  and  other 
possessions  with  knights'  fees  and  advowsons  in  England  and  Wales  late 
of  William,  earl  of  Pembroke,  tenant  in  chief,  the  honour,  castle  and 
lordship  of  Dunster  and  all  other  lordships,  manors,  lands  and  possessions 
late  of  James  Loterell,  knight,  granted  by  letters  patent  to  the  said  earl  and 
the  heirs  of  his  body  excepted,  to  liold  during  the  minority  of  William,  son 


9  EDWARD  IV.— Past  II. 


175 


1469. 


Nov.  27. 

Westminster. 

1470. 

Jan.  4. 
Westminster. 


Membrane  21 — cont. 

and  heir  of  the  said  earl,  in  recompense  of  her  dower  out  of  the  lands 
excepted  as  above.  By  p.s. 

General  pardon  to  Master  Ralph  Makerell,  clerk,  doctor  of  either  law, 
late  of  London,  alias  late  of  Somerlelown,  co.  Suffolk.  By  p.s. 

Appointment,  during  pleasure,  of  Ralph  Hastynges,  esquire,  as  controller 
of  the  petty  custom  and  the  subsidy  of  the  3s.  in  the  tun  and  the  \2d.  in 
the  pound  in  the  port  of  London  and  ports  and  places  adjacent,  receiving  the 
accustomed  fees,  provided  that  he  execute  the  office  in  person,  with  the 
custody  of  one  part  of  the  coket  seal.  Bv  bill  of  the  treasurer. 


1469^  Membuane  20. 

Nov.  7.        i\  [)poIntment  for  life,  from  Micliaelmas  last,  of  the  king's  kinsman  John 
Westminster.  Stafford,  knijjhl,  as  steward  of  the  duchy  of  Cornwall  in  the  county  of 
Cornwall  iuid  of  all  manoi's,  lordships,  lands  and  tenements  of  the  king  in 
that  county  parcel  of  the  duchy,  receiving  the  accustomed  fees  from  the 
issues  of  the  duchy  at  the  hands  of  the  receiver-general  of  the  duchy. 

By  i).s. 

Nov.  11.       Grant  for  life  to  the  king's  servant  Thomas  Assh  of  the  office  of  bailiff  of 
Westrain.ster.  the  king's  lordship  and  manor  of  Watlyngton,  co.  Oxford,  which  Philip 
Latin,  deceased,  lately  had,  with  the  accustomed  fees  fi'om  the  issues  of  the 
manor  and  othei'  profits  pertaining  to  the  oflice.  By  p.s. 

Oct  20.  The  like  to  the  king's  servitor  William  Blount,  esfjuire,  of  the  offices  of 
Westmin.ster.  the  custody  of  tiie  king's  forests  of  Kyngeswode,  co.  Gloucester,  and 
Filwode,  co.  Somerset,  and  the  king's  forest  or  park  of  Pedorton  by  Brigge- 
waler,  co.  Somerset,  with  power  to  nominate  all  foresters,  rangers  and 
officers  within  the  same,  with  all  accustomed  fees  and  jjrofits,  receiving  foi" 
the  wages  of  the  foresters  of  the  said  forest  of  Kyngeswode  7^^/.  daily  as  in 
the  times  of  Edward  IlL  and  Richard  IL  from  the  farm  ami  i.ssiies  of  the 
town  of  Bristol  in  the  same  manner  as  Humphrey  Stafford,  late  earl  of 
Devon,  or  anyone  else  who  had  the  offices.  *  By  p.s. 

Nov.  17.  Grant  to  the  king's  servant  .John  Doune,  one  of  the  esquires  of  the  body, 
Westminster,  of  the  offices  of  constable  of  the  king's  castle  of  Ilaverford  West  in  South 
Wales,  steward  of  tlie  castle,  lordship,  towns  atid  liberties  of  Ilaverford 
aforesaid  and  steward  of  the  castle,  lordship  and  county  of  Pembroke,  the 
castle  and  lordship  of  Lanstophan  and  the  casth;  and  lordship  of  lvd;:;irren 
with  their  members  during  the  minority  of  William  son  an<l  heir  of  William 
Herbert,  knight,  late  earl  of  Pembroke,  receiving  the  accustomed  fees. 

By  p.s. 

Nov.  16.  Grant  to  Walter  Devereux,  lord  of  Ferrers,  of  the  offices  of  constable  of 
Westminster,  the  castles  of  Breknok,  Have  and  Iluntyngton,  steward  of  the  lordships  of 
Breknok,  Haye  and  Huntyngion  and  receiver  of  the  same  lordships  during 
the  minoiity  of  Henry,  kinsman  and  heir  of  Humphrey,  late  duke  of 
Huckingham,  tenant  in  chief,  viz.  son  of  Humphrey  the  soji  of  the  duke,  and 
so  long  as  they  remain  in  the  king's  hands,  i-eceiving  the  accustomed  fees 
from  the  issues  of  the  lordships,  with  all  other  profits.  By  p.s. 

Nov.  22.  Licence  for  the  king's  kinsman  Edward  Nevill,  knight,  lord  of  the  manor 
Westminster,  of  Aston  Cantlowe,  co.  Warwick,  to  found  a  fraternity  or  gild  of  the  men 
of  the  parish  of  the  church  of  St.  John  Baptist,  Aston  Cantlowe,  and  others 
wishing  to  be  of  the  same  fraternity,  to  find  a  chaplain  to  celebrat'!  divine 
service  daily  in  the  said  parish  church  for  the  good  estate  of  the  king  and 
Elizabeth,  queen  of  England,  his  consort  and  the  brethren  and  sisters  of  the 
gild  and  for  their  souls  after  death,  to  be  called  the  fraternity  or  gild  of 
St.  Mary,  Aston  Cantlowe.    They  shall  form  one  corporate  body  with 


176 


CALENDAR  OF  PATENT  ROLLS. 


1469.  Membrane  20 — cont. 

perpetual  succession  and  shall,  whenever  it  be  expedient,  elect  from  themselves 
a  muster  an<l  two  wardens  or  guardians  of  the  gild.  And  the  master, 
guardians  and  brethren  and  sisters  shall  bave  power  to  receive  others  into 
the  gild,  to  implead  and  be  impleaded,  to  make  statutes  and  ordinances  for 
the  governance  of  the  gild,  and  to  acquire  in  mortmain  lands,  annuities  and 
rents  to  the  value  of  8  marks  yearly. 

By  K.  and  for  16/.  paid  in  the  hanaper. 


Membrane  19. 


Sept.  19. 

Westminster. 


Oct.  25. 

Westminster. 

Oct.  2.5. 
Westminster. 


Oct.  26. 
Westminster. 


Oct.  27. 

Westminster. 


Oct.  31. 

Westminster. 

April  18. 
Westminster. 


Nov.  9. 

Westminster. 


March  20. 
Westminster. 


Griint  for  life  to  Robert  Rokley  of  tiie  office  of  ranger  of  the  forest  of 
Lcefeld,  CO.  Rutland,  void  by  the  death  of  James  Holyngworth,  late  ranger, 
with  the  accustomed  fees  and  profits.  By  p.s. 

Grant  to  the  king's  kinsman  William,  lord  of  Hastynges,  and  John  Parre, 
e.iquire  of  the  body,  of  the  presentation  to  the  next  vacant  prebend  in  the 
king's  chapel  of  St.  (ieorge  within  the  castle  of  Wyndesore.  By  p.s. 

Appointment,  during  pleasure,  of  the  king's  kinsman  "William,  bishop  of 
Ely,  as  treasurer  of  the  Exchequer,  receiving  the  accustomed  fees  with  all 
profits,  in  the  same  manner  as  John,  earl  of  Worcester,  or  any  other  treasurer. 

ByK. 

Writ      intcndendo  in  pursuance  to  the  barons  of  the  Exchequer. 

Mandate  in  pursuance  to  John  Langstrother,  knight,  prior  of  the  Hospital 

of  St.  John  of  Jerusalem  in  England,  to  deliver  the  keys,  &c. 

Confirmation  for  life  to  Thomas  Gray,  cleik,  of  his  possession  of  the  free 
chapel  of  St.  Mary,  Wem.stede,  co.  Hertford,  alias  free  chapel  of  Watton, 
CO.  Hertford,  granted  to  him  by  letters  patent  dated  15  July,  7  Edward  IV. 
on  the  demise  of  John  Crecy.  By  K. 

Grant  to  Master  Robert  Newebald,  priest,  of  the  prebend  of  Chesewyke 
in  the  cathedral  cluircli  of  London,  void  by  the  death  of  Nicholas  Dikson, 
late  prebendary,  who  died  during  the  voidance  of  the  see  by  the  death  of 
Robert  Gilbert,  sometime  bishoji.  By  K. 

Mandate  in  pursuance  to  the  dean  and  cliapter. 

General  pardon  to  John  Grey,  rector  of  Somcrleton,  co.  Suffolk,  of  all 
offences  comniilted  by  him  before  21  June  hi.st  By  p.s. 

Grant  to  Richard  Neel,  one  of  the  justices  of  the  King's  Bench,  for  the 
better  maintenance  of  his  estate,  of  110  marks  yearly  at  the  hands  of  the 
clerk  or  keeper  of  the  hanaper  or  the  customers  in  the  ports  of  London, 
Bristol  and  Kyngeston  on  Hull  according  to  tiie  form  of  an  act  in 
Parliament  at  Westminster,  18  Henry  VI.  and  106*.  \  \\d.  and  the  sixth 
[lart  of  ^rf.  yearly  at  Christmas  for  a  robe  with  fur  and  66s.  6</.  yearly  at 
W  hitsuntide  fo'-  a  robe  with  lining. 

Grant  for  life  to  John  Dynliam,  lord  of  Dynham,  of  the  ofBce  of  steward 
of  the  honours,  castles,  manors  and  boroughs  of  Plympton  and  Okhanipton, 
the  manors  of  Tyverton,  Sampford  Courtena^y,  Collyconibe,  Chalvelegh, 
Colyton,  Colyford,  Musbury  and  Whiteford  and  all  other  honours,  castles, 
lordships,  manors,  lands  and  possessions  and  all  hundreds,  courts  leet  and 
views  of  frank-pledge  belonging  to  them  late  of  Humphrey  Stafford,  earl 
of  Devon,  lord  Stafford  of  Suthwike,  knight,  and  in  the  king's  hands 
because  he  died  without  issue  and  because  of  the  forfeiture  of  Thomas 
Courtenay,  late  earl  of  Devon,  receiving  20  marks  yearly  for  tlie  office  from 
the  issues  of  the  above  with  all  other  profits.  By  p.s. 

General  pardon  to  John  Hopkyns  of  all  offences  committed  by  him  before 
5  March.  By  p.s. 


9  EDWARD  IV.— Paht  II. 


177 


Nov,  II. 
Westminster. 


1469.  Membrane  19 — cont. 

Oct.  2';.        Pardon  to  James  Stnmgways  of  West  Harlesey,  co.  York,  knight,  sheriff 
Wustminster.  of  the  county  of  York,  of  all  offences  committed  by  him  and  all  debts  and 
accounts  due  to  the  king.  By  p.s. 

Whereas  on  16  August  last  by  letters  patent  the  king  appointed  John 
Langstrothor,  prior  of  St.  John  of  Jerusalem  in  England,  treasurer  of 
England,  but  the  office  was  formerly  granted  by  the  name  of  the  oflice  of 
treasurer  of  the  Exchequer ;  the  king,  to  prevent  ambiguity,  confirms  all 
concessions,  assignments  and  payments  made  by  the  said  treasurer  by  virtue 
of  the  said  letters,  and  pardons  to  him  all  offences  committed  by  him  since 
that  date  In  the  ofHceof  treasurer  of  England  or  the  office  of  treasurer  of  the 
Exchequer.  By  p.s. 


July  1. 
Westminster. 


July  8. 
Westiiiiuster. 


]\Iay  20. 
Wcstiniiistcr. 


Sept.  4. 

Westminster. 


Sept.  23. 
Westminster. 


Oct.  5. 
Westminster. 

y  96180. 


Membrane  18. 

Licence,  for  5  marks  paid  in  the  hanapcr,  for  Robert  Ingelton  to  grant 
the  castle,  lordship  or  jnanor  of  Myntislied  in  Kendale,  co.  Westmoreland, 
alias  the  castle,  lordship  or  manor  of  Kendale,  and  3,500  acres  of  land, 
120  acres  of  meadow,  G.OOO  acres  of  pasture,  3/.  rent  and  a  water-mill  in 
Kendale,  a  moiety  of  a  water-mill  in  Patton  and  a  moiety  of  a  water-mill 
in  Strikland  Ketill  with  all  free  farms,  liberties,  franchises,  waters,  fisherits, 
free  warrens,  fairs,  markets,  tolls  and  olhcr  a|)purtenances,  held  in  chief,  t  j 
George,  duke  of  Clarence,  Richard,  earl  of  Warwick,  William  Parro, 
knight,  and  Joan  his  wife,  Richard  Tunstnll,  knight,  Richard  Redmayne, 
knight,  Henry  Sotehill,  John  Kalrike,  Robert  Wyclyff,  Miles  Metealf, 
James  Danby  and  William  Faynte  and  the  heirs  male  of  the  bodies  of 
the  said  William  and  Joan  with  remainders  to  the  heirs  of  the  body  of 
William  and  to  the  right  heirs  of  Thomas  Parrc,  knight,  his  father. 

Licence,  for  6/.  paid  in  the  hanapcr,  for  John  Hampton  and  Philip 
Chard  to  grant  the  manor  of  Colynbourn  Valaunce,  co.  Wilts,  and 
twenty  messuages,  sixteen  tofts,  800  acres  of  land,  100  acres  of  meadow, 
400  acres  of  pasture,  10  marks  rent  and  a  rent  of  a  pair  of  gilt  spurs 
and  a  pound  of  cumin  in  Colynbourn  Valaunce,  Colyngbourn  Kyngeston, 
Colyngbourn  Abbots,  Colyngbourn  Southampton,  lUirhanipton,  Affeton 
and  Boscombe,  co.  Wilts,  held  in  chief,  with  the  e.\eei)tion  of  100  acres 
of  wood,  parcel  of  the  manor,  to  John  Leukenorc,  escpiirc,  and  Joan  his 
wife  for  lile  with  remainder  to  Thomas  Roger  and  William  Roger  his 
son  and  the  heirs  of  Thomas,  and  to  grant  the  said  100  acres  of  wood, 
held  in  chief  as  parcel  of  the  manor,  to  the  said  Thomas  and  William  and 
the  heirs  of  Thomas. 

Exemption  for  life  of  Peter  Pekham,  esquire,  from  being  put  on  assizes, 
juries,  inquisitions,  attaints  or  recognisances,  and  from  being  made  trier  of 
tlie  same,  assessor,  laxer  or  collector  of  tenths,  fifteenths  or  other  tallages 
or  subsidies,  collector  of  the  aid  for  knighting  the  king's  eldest  son  or 
marrying  the  king's  eldest  daughter,  mayor,  ehcriff,  constable,  bailiff  or 
other  officer  or  minister  of  tiie  king.  Ry  p.s. 

Protection,  lor  twelve  years,  for  all  timber,  stones,  tiles  and  other  materials 
provided  by  the  wardens  of  the  mistery  of  mercery  of  the  city  of  London 
for  certain  buildings  which  they  are  constructing  and  repairing  within  the 
city  of  London  and  nil  carpenters,  stone-cutters,  tilers  and  other  workmen 
hired  by  them  for  the  work.  Ry  p.?. 

Presentation  of  Nicholas  Bulfynche,  chaplain,  to  the  parish  church  of 
Hovekerk  within  the  marches  of  Calais,  in  the  diocese  of  Tcrouanne.  The 
letters  are  directed  to  Th.  cardinal  archbishop  of  Canterbury. 

I'ardon  to  the  king's  kinsman  George,  archbishop  of  York,  of  all  escapes 
of  felons  committed  to  the  cu':tody  of  himself  or  any  of  his  predecessors 


178 


CALENDAR  OF  PATENT  ROLLS. 


1469. 


Oct.  17. 

Westminster. 

Nov.  3. 

Westminster. 


1470. 

Jan,  29, 

Westminster. 


Jan.  3L 
Westminster. 


1469. 

July  JO. 


Membrane  18 — cont. 
before  29  September  last,  and  all  consequent  fines  and  amercements  due  to 
the  king.  K, 
Grant  for  life  to  the  king's  brother  Richard,  duke  of  Gloucester,  of  the 
office  of  constable  of  England  with  the  accustomed  fees  and  profits,  in  the 
same  manner  as  Richard,  late  earl  Rivers,  had  it.  By  p.s. 

Pardon  to  Walter  Salman  of  Southmymmcs,  co.  Middlesex,  '  laborer,'  of 
his  outLiwry  in  the  county  of  Middlesex  for  not  appearing  before  the  king 
to  answer  for  certain  trespasses  committed  in  that  county,  he  having 
surrendered  to  the  Marshalsea  prison,  as  Thomas  Billyng,  chief  justice  of 
the  King's  Bench,  has  certified. 

Grant  for  life  to  Nicholas  Bulfynch,  clerk,  of  the  king's  chapel  of  Hareway 
within  the  lordship  of  Mark  and  Oyc  in  the  marches  of  Calais,  with  all 
alms,  profits  and  riglits.  By  p.s. 

Presentation  of  Thomas  Walker,  chaplain,  to  the  parish  church  of 
St,  Mary,  Great  Grymesby,  in  the  diocese  of  Lincoln,  void  by  the  death  of 
William  Sygge,  last  parson.  T>y  K. 

Membrane  17. 

Grant  to  the  king's  servant  Geofi"rey  Springe,  because  certain  wines  of 
Westminster,  his  to  the  value  of  100/.  were  taken  by  William  Beaufitz,  late  clerk  of 
John  Wenlok,  knight,  chief  butler  of  England,  for  the  king's  use  for  the 
expenses  of  the  household,  and  the  king  by  letters  under  the  great  seal  of 
the  duchy  of  Lancaster  commanded  Nicholas  Sharp,  then  receiver-general 
of  the  duchy,  to  pay  ]  00/,  to  the  said  Geoffrey  from  the  issues  of  liis  office, 
but  the  latter  has  as  yet  received  no  payment  and  has  surrendered  the 
letters,  and  because  of  his  long  service  to  the  king's  father  and  the  king, 
that  he  or  his  executors  after  his  decease  or  their  factors  or  attorneys  may 
ship  1714  woollen  cloths  without  grain  in  any  ports  of  the  realm  and  take 
them  to  foreign  parts  quit  of  customs  and  subsidies,  in  full  recompence  of 
the  said  wines.  By  p.s. 

July  3.  Grant  to  William  Noreys,  kinji's  knight,  of  the  sum  of  16/.  18s,  which 
Westminster,  John  Marcaunte  of  London,  '  fysshmonger,'  recovered  against  Thomas 
Delamare  late  of  Aldermeston,  co,  Berks,  esquire,  late  sheriff  of  Wilts, 
before  the  justices  of  the  Bench  at  Westminster,  which  sum  belongs  to 
the  king  because  by  writ  dated  10  October,  8  Edward  IV.  he  directed  the 
sheriff"  of  Middlesex  to  exact  Maurice  Neweton  late  of  London, 
'soudeour,'  and  the  said  John  by  the  name  of  John  M;irkam  from  county 
court  to  county  court  until  they  sliould  be  outlawed  if  they  did  not  appear, 
and  they  were  exacted  at  courts  held  at  Braynford  on  Thursday  befoie 
Christmas,  at  the  stone  cross  on  Thur.sday  before  St.  Agnes  and  at 
Braynford  on  Thursday  before  St.  Peter  in  Cathedra,  8  Edward  IV.  and 
at  the  stone  cross  on  Thursday  before  St.  Cuthbert  and  at  Osilston  on 
Thursday  before  SS.  Tiburcius  and  Valerian,  9  Edward  IV.  and  did  not 
appear  and  were  consequently  outlawed.  By  p.s, 

July  6.  Pardon  to  William  Miller  late  of  Suthwerk,  co.  Surrey,  'dier,'  of  his 
Westminster,  outlawry  in  the  county  of  Suirey  for  not  appearing  before  the  king  to 
satisfy  William  Gyles  of  91.  which  the  latter  recovered  against  him  before 
the  justices  of  the  Bench  at  Westminster  and  33s.  46?,  damages,  he  having 
surrendered  to  the  Marshalsea  prison  and  offered  the  said  debt  and 
damages,  as  Thomas  Billyng,  chief  justice  of  the  King's  Bench,  has 
certified. 

Nov.  13.  Grant  for  life  to  Henry  Lokwode,  yeoman  of  the  king's  chamber,  from 
Westminster.  Michaelmas  last  of  a  piece  of  land  and  meadow  in  Thryske,  co.  York, 


9  EDWARD  IV.— Part  II. 


179 


14G9.  Membrane  17 — cont. 

called  *  Balfowe,'  sometime  of  Peter  Tempest,  deceased,  a  messuairc  and 
12  acres  of  land  in  Langrake,  a  messuage  and  16  acres  of  land  in  liarley 
and  a  tenement  in  the  same  town  called  '  Watermannys  Croft '  in  the  said 
county  which  John  Ufflete,  prior  of  Drax,  acquired  without  licence,  a 
bovate  of  land  in  IJratlicwell,  a  bovate  of  land  in  Shelby  called  '  de  Rodeas,' 
two  messuages,  12  acres  of  land  and  a  waste  place  in  Alverton,  three  acres 
of  land  in  Carleton  by  Snaylh  and  a  messuage  and  a  bovate  of  land  in 
Balnebek,  co.  York,  the  fourth  part  of  a  toft,  a  plot  of  pasture,  two 
cottages,  four  bovates  of  land  and  3^  acres  of  meadow  in  Coryugham,  co. 
Lincoln,  and  a  ruinous  messuage  and  30  acres  of  land  and  meadow  in 
Willyngham,  co.  I;incoln,  sometime  of  Thomas  Burton,  rendering  to  the 
king  60«.  4 J.  yearly  and  Hd.  more  of  increment.  By  p.s. 

Nov.  11.  Grant  for  life  to  Richard  Milton  of  the  office  of  parker  of  the  king's 
W'estmiustcr.  parks  of  Assheloy  and  Guddcsbere,  parcel  of  ihe  manor  and  borough  of 
Tyverton,  co.  Devon,  in  the  king's  hands  by  the  forfeiture  of  Thomas 
Courteney,  last  earl  of  Devon,  attainted  of  high  treason  by  an  act  in 
Parliament  at  Westminster,  1  Edward  IV.  and  because  Walter  Moyle, 
justice  of  the  Bench,  Baldwin  Fulford,  knight,  and  others  weie  seised  of 
the  same  in  their  demesne  as  of  fee  to  the  use  of  the  said  earl  for  his  life; 
and  grant  to  bini  for  life  of  wages  of  (itl.  daily  from  the  issues  of  the  said 
manor  or  horougli,  with  all  other  profits. 

Nov.  24.        Grant  to  Richard,  bishop  of  Salisbury,  and  the  king's  servant  Tiionns 
Westminster.  Vaglian,  one  of  the  escjuires  of  the  body,  of  the  presentation  to  the  next 
vacant  prebend  within  the  college  of  St.  George  within  the  castle  of 
Wyndesore.  By  p.s. 


Membrane  16. 

Nov.  7.         Appointment  for  life  of  the  king's  brother  Richard,  duke  of  Gloucester, 
Wistininster.  as  chief  justice  of  Nd  th  Wales,  receiving  the  accustomed  fees  at  the  hands 
of  the  chamberlain  of  North  Wales.  By  p  s. 

Nov.  14.  Grant  to  John  Catesby,  one  of  ihc  king's  Serjeants  at  law,  John  Svviliard 
Westminster,  and  Robert  Bardesey  of  200/.  from  the  issues  of  the  temporalities  of  the 
abbey  of  St.  Peter,  Westminster,  void  by  tiic  death  of  George,  last  abbot, 
for  the  use  of  Thomas  Millyng,  now  elected  abbot,  and  the  convent,  in 
consideration  of  their  losses  by  fire,  their  expenses  in  the  building  of  the 
nave  of  the  abbey  church  and  their  indebtedness  in  great  sums  of  money 
through  the  said  George.  By  p.s. 

Nov.  6.        Signification  to  Pope  Paul  of  the  royal  assent  to  the  election  of  Master 
Westminster.  Thomas  iMillyng,  professor  of  theology,  as  abbot  of  the  monastery  of 
Westminster  by  Loudon,  pertaining  immediately  to  the  Rom  in  church. 

By  p.s. 

Nov.  20.  Grant  to  the  king's  brother  Richard,  duke  of  Gloucester,  and  the  heirs 
Westminster,  male  of  his  body  of  the  manors  and  lordships  of  Alwerton  and  Tywarnaylle 
Tees,  CO.  Cornwall,  with  all  lands,  rents,  farms,  services,  advowsons  and 
other  commodities,  in  the  king's  hands  by  reason  of  the  foi  feiture  of  Edmund 
Beauford,  attainted  of  high  treason  in  Parliament  at  Westminster, 
21  January,  4  Edward  IV.  and  the  tnanor  or  lordship  of  Wylmyngton, 
CO.  Kent,  and  the  lands  and  tenements  near  it  called  lluckyng  and  Dolly 
with  all  lands,  rcmts,  services,  advowsons  and  other  profits,  in  the  king's 
hands  by  reason  of  the  forfeiture  of  Henry,  late  duke  of  Somerset, 
attainted  of  iiigh  treason  in  Parliament  at  Westminster,  4  November, 
1  Edward  IV.  wilh  issues  from  those  dates.  By  p.s. 

Nov.  30.  Appointment,  during  pleasure,  of  the  said  duke  of  Gloucester  as  chief 
Westminster,  steward,  approver  and  surveyor  of  the  principality  of  Wales  and  the 

M  2 


180 


CALENDAR  OF  PATENT  ROLLS. 


1469. 


Dec.  4. 

AVestminster. 


1470. 

Jan.  10. 

Westminster. 


Jan.  31. 
Westminster. 


1469. 

Nov.  21. 
Westminster. 


Mcmhranc  16 — cont. 

earldom  of  .March  iu  England,  Wales  and  the  inarches,  receiving  such  fees 
as  may  be  agreed  upon  before  Easter  next.  By  p.«. 

Grant  to  Ed:nund  Bonyfaunt,  chaplain,  rector  of  the  parish  church  of 
Little  Bricii,  in  the  diocese  of  London,  of  a  prebend  within  tho  fiec  chapel 
of  St.  Stephen  witliin  tho  palace  of  We-tminstcr,  on  an  excliange  of 
benefices  with  Thomas  Bonyfaunt.  By  p.s. 

Mandate  in  pursuance  to  the  dean  of  the  college  of  St.  Stephen. 

CJeneral  pardon  to  Gervase  Clifton  late  of  Braborne,  co.  Kent,  knight, 
alias  late  of  Clifton,  co.  Nottingham,  alias  late  of  London,  alias  late  of 
Eresby,  co.  Lincoln,  of  all  offences  committed  by  him  before  .5  December 
last;  and  grant  to  him  of  all  manors,  lands  and  goods  thus  forfeited  by 
him.  By  p  s. 

Appointment,  during  good  behaviour,  of  Richard  Page  as  solicitor  of 
tho  king,  receiving  10/.  yearly  from  the  issues  of  the  duchy  of  Cornwall ; 
in  lieu  of  a  like  appointment  of  Richard  Fowler  by  letters  patent  dated 
12  March,  1  Edward  IV.  surrendered.  By  p.s. 

Pardon  to  Thomas  Gray  of  Little  Tilbery,  co.  Essex,  esquire,  late 
c.-cluator  of  the  counties  of  Norfolk  and  Suffolk,  one  of  the  esquires  of 
the  body,  tenant  of  the  lands  late  of  John  Hunt,  late  one  of  the  collectors 
of  the  customs  ancl  subsidies  in  tha  port  of  Ipswich  and  ports  and  places 
adjacent,  of  all  offences  committed  by  him  and  all  issues,  fines,  debts  and 
accounts  due  to  the  king.  And  -whereas  Walter  Wyrtell,  escjuire,  late 
slicrilF  of  Essex  and  Hertford,  is  cbarg(!d  in  his  account  from  jNIichaelmas, 
8  Edward  IV.  to  Michaeliiias  following  at  the  Exchequer  with  certain 
sums  from  the  said  Tliomas  and  John,  ai.d  the  said  Thomas  is  consequently 
disturbed  in  certain  lands  of  his  in  Essex  late  of  the  said  John,  the  king 
hereby  pardons  to  them  and  the  executors  and  heirs  of  the  said  John  the 
said  sums  and  all  consequent  actions  and  demands.  By  p.s. 


Membrane  1^. 

Nov.  29.  On  behalf  of  Richard  Gray,  executor  of  the  will  of  Thomas  Manny ng, 
Westminster,  clerk,  the  king  is  informed  that  Thomas  in  his  lifetime  was  in  great  indigence 
and  indebtedness  and  because  he  lately  made  forfeiture  to  the  king  the 
executor  cannot  proceed  in  the  execution  of  the  will  without  his  licence,  and 
he  has  therefore  granted  licence  for  him  to  undertake  the  administration 
of  the  small  debts  and  goods  of  the  said  Th^nnas  for  the  fulfilment  of  his  will 
and  has  rel-'ased  his  interest  in  the  estate  in  favour  of  the  other  creditors. 

By  p.s. 

Dec.  2.  Grant  for  life  to  Thomas  Yonge,  one  of  the  justices  of  the  Common 
AYcstminsier.  Bench,  of  a  tun  of  wine  yearly  from  the  king's  prises  in  the  port  of  Bristol. 

By  p.s. 

Mandate  in  pursuance  to  the  chief  butler  of  England  or  his  deputy  ia 
the  said  port. 

Dec.  1.  General  pardon  to  John  Purcas  late  of  London,  'yoraan,'  of  all  offences 
Wcsfmins'er.  committed  by  him  before  25  November  last.  By  p.s. 

Nov.  23.       The  like  to  Alice  Swancot  of  Bristol,  '  gentilwoman,'  the  wife  of  John 
Westminster.  Swancot  of  Bristol,  of  all  offences  committed  by  her  before  19  November 
and  all  consequent  forfeitures  of  her  goods.  By  p.s. 

Dec.  16.         Grant  to  the  king's  brother  Richard,  dtd<e  of  Gloucester,  of  fuU  power 
Westminster,  and  authority  to  reduce  and  subdue  the  king's  castles  of  Carmardyn  and 
Cardycan  in  South  Wales,  which  Morgan  ap  Thomas  ap  Griffith,  '  genliU 


9  EDWARD  IV.— Part  11. 


181 


1469. 


Doc.  14. 
Westminster. 


Dec.  12. 
Westminster. 


Dec.  18. 

Westminster. 

Nov.  20. 

Westminsti.T. 


1470. 

Feb.  24. 
Westminster. 


Membrane  15 — cont. 

man,' and  Henry  ap  TIjoni.is  ap  Griffitli,  '  f^entilman,'  with  other  rebels 
have  entered  into  and  from  which  they  raid  the  adjacent  parts,  and  to  put 
them  under  safe  custody  and  governance  and  to  promise  pardon  to  such 
rebels  within  them  as  shall  be  willing  to  submit  and  take  an  oath  of  fealty. 

By  K. 

Grant,  during  pleasure,  to  the  kinj^'s  kinsman  Thomas  Arundell,  lord 
Mautravers,  for  his  sustenance  and  for  his  attendance  on  the  king's  person, 
of  200  marks  yearly,  viz.  100  marks  from  the  customs  and  subsidies  from 
goods  and  merciiandise  in  the  port  of  Suthampton,  and  lOJ  maiks  from 
tlie  subsidy  called  tonnf.gc  and  poundage  viz.  3^.  in  the  tun  and  \2d.  in 
the  pound  in  tlic  port  of  London.  By  p.s. 

Licence  for  Fulk  IJiirgcIiicr,  esquire,  son  and  heir  of  Wdliam  Burgchier, 
knight,  late  lord  Fitzwaren,  to  enter  freely  into  all  castles,  lordships, 
hundreds,  lands,  tov^ns,  manors,  fee  farms,  aimuities,  reversions,  farms, 
rents,  services,  fecr,  views  of  frank-pledge,  courts  lect,  sherifl's  turns, 
liberties,  franchises,  fairs,  markets,  jurisilictions,  knights'  fees,  patronages, 
advowsons,  woods,  agistments,  pannages,  mill?,  waters,  fisheries,  meadows, 
pastures,  commons,  offices  and  other  posses-Jons  in  Ingland  and  the 
inarches  of  Wales  of  which  his  father  was  seised  and  which  should  ilescend 
to  him.  By  p.s. 

Presentation  of  William  Wilcok,  chaplain,  to  the  parish  cliurch  of 
Landussull  in  Sontii  Wales,  in  the  diocese  of  St.  Davids,  void  by  the 
resignation  of  Robert  Shelwake,  last  parson.  By  p.s. 

Grant  for  life  to  the  king's  servant  John  Shute,  one  of  the  yeomen  of 
the  crown,  of  tlie  office  of  |)arker  of  the  park  of  ()kebami)ton,  co.  Devon, 
and  the  custody  of  the  park  with  tiic  custody  of  the  ciiasi;  theio.  in  the 
king's  hands  as  parcel  of  tin;  manor  of  Okehampton  by  the?  forfeiture  of 
Thomas  Courtenay,  late  earl  of  Devon,  attainted  of  high  treason  by  an  act 
in  Parliament  at  Westminster,  I  lOdw.ird  IV  ;  with  wag(!s  of  5d.  daily 
from  the  issues  of  the  ;i;anor  and  all  other  accustomed  profits.  By  p.s. 

Significalion  to  J.  bishop  of  Lincoln  of  the  royal  .assent  to  the  election  of 
John  Wysebeclie,  monk  of  the  monastery  of  Croyland,  as  abbot  of  that 
place.  By  p.s. 


1469. 

Nov.  18. 
Westminster. 


1470. 

Jan.  25. 
Westminster. 


Membrane  14. 

Grant  for  life  to  the  king's  servant  John  C'ouper,  yeoman  of  tlie  king's 
chandler,  of  the  office  of  [)arker  of  tiie  park  of  Colcombe,  parcel  of  the  manor 
or  lordship  of  Colcombe,  and  the  oflice  of  bailiff  of  Coleton,  parcel  of  tho 
manor  or  lordship  of  Coleton,  co.  Devon,  in  the  king's  hands  by  the 
forfeiture  of  Thomas  Courteuey,  last  earl  of  Devon,  attainted  of  high 
treason  by  an  act  in  Parliament  at  Westminster,  1  Edward  IV.  and  because 
Walter  Moyle,  one  of  the  justices  of  the  Bench,  Baldwin  Fulford,  kniglit,  and 
others  were  seised  thereof  in  their  demesne  as  of  fee  to  the  use  of  tiie  said 
earl  for  his  life  ;  and  <;rant  to  him  of  wa-res  of  '6(1.  daily  for  the  office  of 
l)arker  and  ."!</.  daily  for  the  office  of  bailill"  from  the  issues  of  the  said 
manors  or  lordships,  with  all  other  profits.  By  p.s. 

Pardon  to  Thomas  Lamplogh,  knight,  late  sheriff  of  Cumberland,  in 
consideration  of  his  good  service  in  the  sieg(!s  and  reduction  of  the  castles 
of  Kirkoswald  and  Naward,  co.  Cumberland,  and  the  capture  of  the  castio 
of  Bamburgh  and  his  expenses  in  resisting  the  rebels  in  the  said  county, 
of  all  offences  committed  by  him  and  all  fines,  amercements,  debts,  accounts 
and  ai rears  due  from  him  to  the  king.  By  p.s. 


182 


CALENDAR  OF  PATENT  ROLLS. 


1469.  Membrane  14 — cont. 

Nov  28.  Grant  for  life  to  the  kin<i;'3  kiQsman  Thomas  Bourgchier,  knight,  of  the 
Westminster.  ofBces  of  constable  and  parker  of  the  king's  castle  and  park  of  Ledes,  co. 

Kent,  from  the  time  of  the  death  of  R  dph  Seintleger,  with  such  fees, 
wages  and  robes  as  Robert  Corby,  late  constable,  and  John  Uangore,  late 
parker,  had  in  the  time  of  Edward  III.  from  the  issues  of  the  manor  or 
lordship  of  Ledes,  with  all  other  profits.  By  p.s. 

1470. 

Jan.  29.        Exemplification    of  letters    patent   dated  12  March,   1    Edward  IV 
AVestminster.  appointing  Richard  Foweler  the  king's  solicitor.    These  letters  have  been 
casually  lost,  as  the  said  Richard  has  taken  oath  in  Chancery,  and  will  be 
surrendered  if  found. 

1469. 

Nov.  20.  Licence,  for  405,  paid  in  the  hanapcr,  for  William  Dyneley,  esquire,  to 
Westminster,  enfeoff  Henry  Court,  esquire,  Nicholas  Hervy,  '  gentilnian,'  John  Hill, 
'  gentilinan,'  Thomas  Cupper,  clerk,  and  John  Mody,  clerk,  of  the  manor  of 
Wolferton,  co.  Southampton,  and  the  advowson  of  the  church  of  the  manor, 
held  in  chief,  and  for  these  to  re-enfeoff  the  said  William  and  Anne  his 
wife  of  the  same,  to  hold  to  themselves  and  the  heirs  male  of  their  bodies, 
with  remainder  to  William  and  his  heirs. 

1470. 

Feb.  5.  Licence,  for  335.  Ad.  paid  in  the  hanaper,  for  John  Shelley,  citizen  and 

Westminster,  mercer  of  London,  to  grant  the  manor  of  Chelsyn,  co.  Hertford,  held  in 
chief,  to  John  Say,  knight,  Ralph  Bawde,  esquire,  Henry  Barley,  esquire, 
Thomas  Frowyk,  esquire,  Thomas  Leventhorp,  esquire,  William  Say, 
esquire,  Thomas  Riche,  mercer,  Andrew  Body,  '  vintner,'  John  Carde- 
maker,  William  Laurens,  '  grocer,'  W^illiam  Shore,  citizen  of  London, 
Thomas  Braugliyng  the  elder  and  Thomas  Brangliyng  the  younger 
and  their  heirs  to  hold  to  the  use  of  the  said  John  Shelley  and  his  heirs. 


1469. 

July  17. 
Westminster. 


Dec.  29. 
Westminster. 


Dec.  5.3. 
Westminster. 


Membrane  13. 

Grant  for  life  to  John  Rypon,  esquire,  of  the  ollice  of  one  of  the  king's 
Serjeants  at  arms  from  Easter  last  with  wages  of  12<7.  daily  from  the  issues 
of  the  county  of  Kent,  a  coat  of  the  king's  livery  yearly  at  Christinas  at 
the  great  wardrobe  of  the  same  suit  and  cloth  as  other  Serjeants  at  arms, 
and  otlier  profits  of  his  offices ;  in  lieu  of  a  like  grant  to  him  by  letters 
patent  dated  7  July,  1  Edward  IV.  surrendered  because  the  wages  therein 
mentioned  have  been  taken  into  the  king's  hands  by  virtue  of  an  act  in  the 
last  Parliament  at  Westminster.  By  p.s. 

Grant  for  life  to  Thomas  Tyryngham,  esquire,  of  the  office  of  one  of 
the  king's  foresters  in  the  forest  of  Purbyk  alias  the  office  of  forester  of 
'  la  Westbayly  '  within  the  forest  of  Purbyk,  co.  Dorset,  receiving  the 
accustomed  fees  from  Michaelmas,  8  Edward  IV.  from  which  date  lie  has 
occupied  the  ollice,  from  the  issues  of  the  counties  of  Somerset  and  Dorset, 
with  all  other  accustomed  profits;  in  lieu  of  a  like  grant  to  him  by  letters) 
patent  dated  3  February,  5  Edward  IV.  surrendered  because  invalid. 

By  p.s. 

Mandate  in  pursuance  to  the  sheriff  of  Somerset  and  Dorset. 

Grant  to  Thomas  Seyntleger,  esquire  of  the  body,  and  Nicholas  Gaynes- 
ford,  esquire,  of  the  custody  of  all  manors,  lands,  possessions,  rents, 
knight's  fees  and  advowsous  late  of  John  White,  tenant  in  chief,  during 
the  minority  of  Robert  White  his  son  and  heir  with  the  marriage  of  the 
latter  without  dispai'agementj  and  so  from  heir  to  heir.  By  p.s. 


9  EDWARD  IV.— Part  IT. 


183 


1470.  Membrane  13 — coni. 

Jan.  10.  Grant  for  life  to  William  Bcstuey,  one  of  tlie  king's  Serjeant's  at  arms,  of 
Westminster.  5s.  yearly  from  25  November,  7  Edward  IV.  viz.  100«.  at  the  hands 

of  the  abbot  and  convent  of  Shrewsbury  or  the  sheriff  of  Salop  for  the 
wood  or  hay  called  Lytliewode,  In/,  at  the  hands  of  Simon  Combe  and  his 
heirs  or  the  sheriff  of  Wilts  from  the  farm  of  the  lands  which  Henry 
Oandaver  hehl  in  Fitelton,  and  6o5.  at  the  hands  of  the  prior  and  convent 
of  Merton  or  the  sheriff  of  Kent  for  the  manor  of  Patrikesbourne,  co.  Kent, 
in  lieu  of  a  like  grant  to  him  by  letters  patent  of  that  date  (see  p.  41), 
surrendered  so  far  as  concerns  the  sums  mentioned  because  invalid. 

By  p.s. 

Jan.  25.        Grant  for  life  to  the  king's  kinsman  Humphrey  Dacre,  knight,  lord 
Westminster.  Dacre,  of  the  office  of  master  forester  of  the  king's  forest  of  Tnglewodc, 
CO.  Cumberland,  with  the  accustomed  fees,  in  the  same  manner  as  llichird, 
late  earl  of  Ryver^,  had  the  office.  By  p.s. 

Jan.  23.  Licence  for  the  prior  and  convent  of  Croyland  to  elect  an  abbot  in  the 
Westminster,  place  of  John  Litlyngton,  last  abbot,  deceased.  By  p.s. 

Feb.  9.  Licence  for  the  prior  and  convent  of  the  monastery  of  Bury  St.  Edmunds 
Westminster,  to  elect  an  abbot  in  the  place  of  John  Boon,  late  abbot,  deceased.     By  p.s. 

Feb.  16.        Appointment   of  Robert  Ychyn    as  deputy  and  lieutenant  of  John 
Westminster.  Weulok,  knight,  chief  butler  of  England,  in  the  port  of  Brwgewator  and 
ports  and  places  adjacent,  receiving  the  accustomed  fees. 

By  bill  of  the  chief  butler. 


1469. 

Dec.  10. 

Westminster. 


1470. 

Jan.  25. 

Westminster. 


Feb.  12. 
Westminster. 


Feb.  14. 
Westminster. 


Membrane  12. 

Whereas  by  lelters  patent  dated  1  April,  5  Edward  IV.  the  king  granted 
to  John  Burgh,  csfiuiro,  and  the  heirs  male  of  his  body  certain  messuages, 
cottages,  tofts,  shops,  shambles,  crofts  and  gardens  in  Kirketon  in  Lyndesey, 
Howton  by  Bekering,  Bliton,  Iledeburn  and  Aderby,  co.  Lincoln,  and  by 
letters  patent  dated  30  November,  6  Edward  IV.  released  to  him  certain 
rents,  services  and  debts  due  for  the  premises,  and  the  said  John  h.'ia 
surrendered  the  last-named  letters  patent;  the  king  hereby  releases  to  him 
all  arrears  of  rents,  services  and  debts  due  for  the  premises  from  Easter, 
5  Edward  IV.  until  28  November  last,  and  grants  that  he  and  his  heirs 
and  assigns  shall  hold  them  for  the  term  of  10  years  following  quit  of  all 
rent.  By  p.s. 

Pardon  to  William  Umby  of  Hadley,  co.  Suffolk,  'laborer,'  of  his 
outlawry  in  the  county  of  Sufl'olk  for  not  appearing  before  John  Prysot  and 
his  fellow.s,  justices  of  the  Bench  of  the  late  king,  to  answer  John  iMannok 
for  hairing  left  his  service  at  Stoke  by  Neylond  before  the  term  agreed 
upon;  he  having  surrendered  to  the  Flete  pi ison,  as  Robert  Danby,  chief 
justice  of  the  Bench,  has  certified. 

Grant  for  life  to  Richard  Beauchamp  of  the  reversion  of  the  office  of 
constable  of  the  king's  oaslle  of  Gloucester  with  a  meadow  called 
'  kingesmpdowe  '  near  the  castle  and  all  accustomed  fees  and  profits  on 
the  death  of  the  king's  servant  Thomas  Herbert  the  elder,  to  whom  the 
same  was  granted  by  letters  patent  dated  23  June,  1  Edward  IV.      By  p.s. 

Appointment  for  life  from  1  August  l;isl  of  the  king's  knight  William 
Stanley  as  steward  of  the  king's  lordship  oi'  Denbiegh  in  the  parts  of  North 
Wales,  void  by  the  death  of  WilKan),  late  carl  of  Pembroke,  with  the 
accustomed  fees  at  the  hands  of  the  receiver  of  the  lordship.  By  p.s. 


184 


CALENDAR  OF  PATENT  ROLLS. 


1470.  Membrane  12— co/it. 

Feb.  20.        Grant  to  the  kind's  orator  John  Brekyn,  clerk,  of  tlie  prebend  of 
"Westminster.  Erdyngton  in  the  collegiate  church  of  St.  Mary  Magdalen,  Briggenorth, 
void  by  the  resignation  of  George  Pylkyiigtoa,  chiplain,  late  prcbemlary. 

By  p.s. 

Mandate  in  pursuance  to  the  dean  and  chapter. 

Feb.  20.        Grant  for  life  to  William  Alberd  and  John  Gerves  of  the  office  of  the 
Westminster,  custody  of  the  king's  castle  of  Norwich  and  the  gaol  there,  with  the 
accustomed  fees  from  tiie  issues  of  the  counties  of  Norfolk  and  Suffolk. 

By  p.s. 

Jan.  5.  General  pardon  to  William  Kayme  late  of  Sydyngbourne,  co.  Kent, 
■Westminster.  '  yonian.'  '  By  p.s. 

1469. 

July  3.  Licence  for  Ralph  VVolseley  and  his  Iieirs  to  enclose  and  impark  the  land 
"Westminster,  and  water  within  or  pertaining  to  the  manor  or  lordship  of  Wolseley,  co. 

Stafford,  of  which  he  is  seised,  and  to  make  deer-leaps  there  and  to  have 
free  warren  and  chase  within  the  manor  of  hares,  rabbits,  pheasants, 
partridges  and  other  birds,  fish  and  deer.  By  p.s. 

July  3.  Licence  for  the  said  Ralph  and  his  heirs  to  crenellate  the  manor  of 
Westminster.  Wolscluy,  CO.  Stafford.  By  p.s. 


Membrane  11. 


Nov.  23. 
Westminster. 


Oct.  2S. 
Westminster. 


Nov.  28. 
Westminster. 


Nov.  27. 

Westminster. 

1470. 

Jan.  28. 
AVestminster. 


Grant  for  life  to  John  Foidc  of  the  office  of  being  one  of  the  kind's 
Serjeants  at  arms,  with  wages  of  12(7.  daily  from  the  customs  and  subsidies  in 
the  ports  of  Exeter  and  Dcrtmouth  and  ports  and  places  adjacent,  and  a 
coat  of  the  king's  livery  yearly  at  Christinas  at  the  great  wardrobe  of  the 
same  suit  and  cloth  as  other  Serjeants  at  arms,  and  all  other  profits. 

By  p.s. 

Wherea3  the  king's  mother  by  her  letlcis  patent  has  granted  to  John 
Walker,  for  his  good  service  to  the  king  and  the  king's  father,  ti:e  office  of 
porter  of  the  king's  castle  of  Fodringliey,  the  king  grants  the  said  office  to 
him  for  life,  receiving  the  accustomed  fees  at  the  hands  of  the  receivers, 
bailiffs,  farmers  or  occupiers  of  the  lordship  of  Fodringliey,  with  all  other 
profits.  By  p.s. 

Confirmation  of  letters  patent  dated  23  March,  4  Edward  IV.  being  a 
grant  for  life  to  Guy  Wolston,  esquire,  of  the  custody  of  the  king's  great 
park  of  Fodrynghay,  Erlesvvod  and  Newehawe,  the  office  of  constable  of 
the  king's  castle  of  Fodrynghay  and  the  custody  of  tiie  garden  and  spinney 
there,  and  the  office  of  receiver  of  the  castle  and  lordship  of  Fodrynghay 
and  certain  fees  there  named.         By  p.s.  and  for  40*.  paid  in  the  hanaper. 

Grant  to  Nicholas  Wylde  born  of  Kampen  {Campens')  in  the  bishopric  of 
Utrecht,  and  tlie  heirs  of  his  body  of  letters  of  denisation. 

By  p  s.  and  for  20s.  paid  in  the  hanaper. 

Commii-sion  to  Richard  Liccbfelde  and  John  Alcok,  doctors  of  laws, 
Michael  Carvanell,  bachelor  of  either  law,  William  Haydok,  John 
Pembeiton,  Edmund  Pygot  and  William  Baldly  of  London,  merchants,  of 
the  king's  authority  in  an  appeal  by  Thomas  Gay  the  younger,  citizen  of 
London,  against  a  judgement  of  William  Godeyere,  doctor  of  laws, 
lieutenant  and  commissary  general  of  the  king's  brother  Richard,  duke  of 
Gloucester,  admiral  of  England,  Ireland  and  Aquicaine,  at  Horton  Key  in 
Suthwerk  in  tlie  accustomed  place  by  the  tideway  in  the  parish  of 
St.  Olave  in  a  maritime  case  on  a  demand  of  50/.  between  William 


9  EDWARD  IV.— Part  II. 


185 


1470.  Membrane  11 — cont. 

Hampton,  citizen  and  alderman  of  London,  plaintiff,  and  the  said  Thomas, 
defendant. 

Jan.  28.  Grant  for  life  to  Edward  the  Bastard  of  Bretaigne  of  200/.  yearly  at  the 
Westminster,  receipt  of  the  Exchequer.  By  p.s. 

Jan.  25.  Pardon  to  Richard  Fitz  William  of  Aldevverk,  co.  York,  king's  knight,  late 
Westminster,  sheriff  of  Lincoln,  because  he  has  lost  a  great  part  of  the  profits  of  his  office 
through  the  insurrection  of  divers  lieges  of  the  king  in  tiie  said  county  of 
Lincoln  and  has  paid  80/.  from  the  issues  of  his  bailiwick  for  his  own 
proffers  into  tlie  Exchequer,  and  because  (;f  his  gi'eat  expense  in  attending 
on  the  king's  person  with  100  persons,  of  all  offences  committed  by  him 
and  all  debts,  views  of  accounts,  fines  and  sums  of  money  due  to  the  king. 

By  p.s. 

Feb.  1.  Pardon  to  John  Conyers  of  Hornby,  co.  York,  knight,  alias  of  Whorlton, 
Westminster,  co.  York,  late  sheriff  of  York,  who  at  the  king's  special  request  in  the 
seventh  year  took  upon  himself  the  oificc  of  sheriff  for  four  months  and 
afterwards  held  it  until  the  end  of  the  year  and  could  not  receive  the 
accustomed  issues  and  profits  but  supported  divers  charges,  of  all  offences 
committed  by  him  and  all  debts  and  accounts  due  to  the  king.  By  p.s. 


Membrane  10. 


Jan.  25. 

Westminster. 


Feb.  13. 

Wcfitmiuster. 


Feb.  «. 

Westminster. 


Feb.  7. 
Westminster. 


Feb.  16. 
Westminster. 


Licence  for  John  Cartmell,  clerk,  and  Iiis  executors  to  found  a  perpetual 
chantry  of  one  chaplain  to  celebrate  divine  service  at  the  altar  of  St.  Mary 
the  Virgin  in  the  church  of  Middeiham  for  liis  health  and  for  his  .soul  after 
death  and  the  souls  of  Richard,  late  earl  of  Salisbury,  and  Alice  his  consort 
and  the  father  and  mother  of  the  said  John  and  those  for  whom  he  is 
bound  to  pray,  to  be  called  the  chantry  of  John  Cartmell ;  and  for  the 
chaplains  of  the  chantry  to  actpiire  in  mortmain,  after  inquisition,  lands, 
rents,  annuities  and  other  possessions,  not  held  in  chief,  to  the  value  of 
9  marks  yearly.  By  p.s.  and  for  15/.  paid  in  the  hanaper. 

Grant  to  the  king's  kinsman  Thomas,  cardinal  archbishop  of  Canterbury, 
of  200/.  yearly  from  Midsummer  last  from  the  issues  and  profits  of  the 
king's  exchange  and  mint  within  the  Tower  of  London  and  elsewiiere 
■within  the  lealm  of  Enghuul,  until  he  shall  be  fully  satisfied  of  the  sum  of 
700/.  in  which  the  king  is  indebted  to  him,  as  appears  in  the  receipt  of  the 
Exchequer.  By  p.s. 

Grant  for  life  to  the  king's  seivant  .John  Walford,  one  of  the  yeomen  of 
the  king's  chamber,  of  the  oflice  of  bailiff  of  the  king's  lordship  of 
Fordyngton,  co.  Dorset,  void  by  the  death  of  John  Baron,  witii  the 
accustomed  fees  from  the  issues  of  the  lordship  and  all  accustomed  profits, 
rendering  yearly  due  accounts.  By  p.s. 

Appointment  of  the  king's  brother  Richard,  duke  of  Gloucester,  as  chief 
justice  of  South  Wales,  the  king's  chamberlain  of  South  Wales  and  steward 
of  the  king's  commote  of  Cantremaure  and  all  the  king's  lordship?,  manors 
and  cominotes  in  the  counties  of  Kardican  and  Kermerdyn  in  South  Wales 
during  the  minority  of  William  Herbert,  knight,  earl  of  Pembroke,  son  and 
heir  of  William  Herbert,  knight,  late  earl  of  Pembroke,  receiving  the 
accustomed  fees.  By  p.s. 

Grant  for  life  to  the  king's  knight  Roger  Vaghan  of  the  ofl5ce  of 
constable  of  the  king's  castle  of  Cardigan,  void  by  the  death  of  William 
Herbert,  esquire,  receiving  the  accustomed  fees  from  the  issues  of  the  castle 
and  the  lordship  of  Cardigan  at  the  hands  of  the  king's  chamberlain  of 
South  Wales,  with  all  other  accustomed  profits.  By  p.s. 


186 


CALENDAR  OP  PATENT  ROLLS. 


1470.  Membrane  10 — cont. 

Feb.  17.        Presentation  of  Louis  ap  Oweyn,  doctor  of  laws,  to  the  parish  church  of 
Westminster.  Llaudussull,  in  the  diocese  of  St.  Davids,  void  by  the  resignation  of  Robert 
Shelwake,  last  parson.  By  p.s. 

1469. 

Nov.  9.  Licence  for  John  Colshull,  knight,  and  Elizabeth  his  wife,  one  of  the 
Westminster,  kinswomen  and  heiresses  of  Humphrey  Stafford,  late  earl  of  Devon, 
tenant  in  chief,  John  VVilloughby,  knight,  and  Agues  his  wife,  another 
of  the  said  kinswomen  and  heiresses,  and  Thomas  Strangwiche  and 
Eleanor  his  wife,  the  third  of  the  .said  kinswomen  and  heiresses,  viz. 
the  daughters  of  Alice  the  sister  of  William  Stafford,  father  of  the  said 
late  earl,  to  enter  freely  into  all  castles,  lordships,  land,'^,  towns,  manors, 
fee-farms,  annuities,  reversions,  farms,  rents,  services,  hundreds,  fees,  views 
of  frank-pledge,  courts  leet,  sheriffs'  turns,  liberties,  franchises,  fairs, 
markets,  jurisdictions,  knights'  fees,  patronages,  advowsons,  woods,  agist- 
ments, pannages,  mills,  waters,  fisheries,  meatlows,  pastures  and  otlier 
possessions  within  the  realm  of  which  the  said  earl  was  seised  and  which 
should  descend  to  them.  By  p.s. 

1470. 

March  2.  Mandate  to  the  escheator  in  the  counties  of  Norfolk  and  Suffolk  for  the 
Westminster,  restitution  of  the  temporalities  of  the  monastery  of  St.  Edmund,  Bury,  of 
the  order  of  St.  Benedict,  in  the  diocese  of  Norwich,  immediately  subject 
to  the  Roman  church,  to  Robert  Ixwortli,  doctor  of  decrees,  late  prior  of 
the  monastery,  who  has  been  elected  .abbot  in  the  place  of  John  Boon, 
deceased,  in  accordance  with  an  in  lult  of  the  apostolic  see,  granted  at  the 
supplication  of  Richard  II,  that  the  convent  should  have  the  right  of 
electing  their  abbot.  By  p.s. 

The  like  to  the  escheators  in  the  following  counties  : — 

Cambridge. 

Essex  and  Hertford. 

Lincoln. 

Northampton. 

The  like  to  Richard  Lee,  mayor  of  London,  escheator  in  that  city. 
Writ  de  iiitendendo  in  pursuance  to  the  tenants. 


Membrane  9. 

Jan.  17.  The  king  lately  for  divers  debts  in  which  he  was  indebted  to  divers 
Westminster,  persons  assigned  to  them  certain  sums  of  money  by  tallies  levied  at  the 
receipt  of  the  Exchequer  on  John  Lambard  and  Thomas  Gay,  then 
collectors  of  the  customs  and  subsidies  of  wools  and  the  petty  custom  in  the 
port  of  Suthampton,  viz.  to  George  Darell,  lale  keeper  of  the  great 
wardrobe,  100/.  on  13  May,  2  Edward  lY.  for  the  wardrobe,  to  William 
Port,  late  treasurer  of  the  king's  chamber,  35/.  4*.  on  the  same  date  for  the 
cliamber,  to  Geoffrey  Gate  11/.  20d.  on  19  October,  2  Edward  IV.  and  to 
John  Wykys,  esquire,  1.'^/.  155.  on  the  said  13  May,  .nnd  they  delivered  the 
said  tallies  to  the  said  John  Lambard,  and  I  he  king  for  the  sum  of  40/.  in 
which  he  was  indebted  to  the  said  John  Lambard  and  one  Tliomas  Pounde, 
late  collectors  of  the  customs  and  subsidies  in  the  said  port,  assigned  to 
the  said  John  and  Thomas  the  said  sura  by  a  tally  levied  on  themselves  at  the 
said  receipt  on  10  November,  4  Edward  IV.  and  by  letters  patent  dated 
14  May,  4  Edward  IV.  the  king  granted  to  the  said  John  Lambard  the  sum 
of  4iy/.  16.*.  2d.  from  the  said  customs  and  subsidies,  but  the  latter  has  as  yet 
received  no  payment  of  any  of  the  sums  aforesaid  and  has  surrendered 
the  said  letters  patent  and  tallies. 


9  EDWARD  IV.— Part  II. 


187 


1470.  Membrane  9 — cont. 

Tlie  king  accordingly,  in  recompence  of  the  premises  and  in  repayment 
of  the  sum  of  191/.  13.v.  Ad.  lent  to  him  by  the  said  John  Lambard  on 
29  April,  9  Edwiud  IV,  as  appears  at  the  receipt  of  the  Exchequer,  grants 
to  the  said  John  and  his  heirs  and  assigns  the  manors  of  Vyclleston, 
Churebere  and  Ncwenham  by  Chitlamphosf,  co.  Devon,  a  messuage  with 
a  garden  adjacent  csilled  '  Uretcyne '  within  the  city  of  Exeter,  two 
messuages,  two  gardens  adjacent  and  2*.  j early  rent  from  a  vacant  plot  ia 
the  highway  of  the  said  city  within  the  i)arish  of  St.  John  do  Ar^;ubu^, 
three  other  tent;inonts  and  g  inlens  adjacent  in  a  street  called  '  Boucherrewe  ' 
of  the  same  city,  U\o  other  lacssuages  in  the  higlistrect  of  the  said  city  by 
the  gate  of"  the  prior  of  St.  Nicholas's  there,  a  messuage  within  the  same 
city  by  the  house  of  Thomes  Callewodelegh  opposite  Seynt  Stephens  Bowe, 
a  messuage  and  40  acres  of  land  in  Forde  in  the  parish  of  Yde,  three 
messuages,  60  acres  of  land,  0  acres  of  meadow,  200  acres  of  pasture, 
200  acres  of  moor,  12  acres  of  wood,  300  acres  of  gorse  and  hcalh  and 
10s.  rent  in  Wettmyddelton,  Ilarecomb,  Knoll,  Ilallcrigge  and  Budlegli, 
CO.  Devon,  an  acre  of  land  in  tli^  city  of  Exeter  which  is  the  glebe  of  the 
church  of  Allliallows  Goldsmith  witli  the  advowson  of  the  said  church,  and 
the  manor  of  Westcoker  and  the  advowson  of  the  church  of  Westcoker 
and  the  hundred  of  Westcoker,  co.  Somerset,  late  of  Henry  Courtenay, 
esquire,  attainted  of  high  treason,  and  in  the  king's  hands  by  his  forfeiture 
and  by  reason  of  an  act  of  forfeiture  in  Parliament  at  Westminster, 
4  November,  1  Edward  IV,  against  Thomas  Courtenay,  then  last  earl  of 
Devon,  and  the  manor  of  Puryton  and  ten  messuages,  160  acres  of  land, 
GO  acres  of  meadow  and  20i)  acres  of  wood  in  Westraplond,  co.  Somerset, 
two  messuages,  18  acres  of  land,  5  acres  of  p.asture  and  20  acres  of  meadow 
in  llynmour  and  Wethe,  co.  Somer.set,  4s.  rent  from  a  messuage  in 
Yedestan,  co.  Somerset,  a  dove-cote,  20  acres  of  land,  10  acres  of  meadow, 
and  160  acres  of  pasture  in  Bawderyppe  and  Croke  within  the  parish  of 
Bawderyjjpe,  CO.  Somerset,  and  fifteen  burgages  in  Downeyeud,  co.  Somerset, 
late  of  the  said  Henry  Courtenay  and  in  the  king's  hands  by  his  forfeiture, 
to  hold  with  knights'  fees,  advowsons,  wards,  marriages,  reliefs,  escheats, 
parks,  woods,  warreii.s,  courts  leet,  views  of  frank-pledge,  liberties, 
franchises  and  other  emoluments  and  all  issues  from  the  death  of  the  said 
Henry  by  the  services  of  as  many  knights'  fees  and  as  many  other  rents 
and  services  as  they  were  held  by  belbre  4  March,  I  Edward  IV;  and  the 
reversion  on  the  death  of  John  Brygham  of  a  messuage,  300  acres  of  land, 
20  acres  of  meadow,  200  acres  of  jjasture  and  60  acres  of  gorse  and  heath 
in  Stuttecombe,  co,  Devon,  of  which  the  said  Henry  Courtenay  was  lately 
seised  in  his  demesne  as  of  fee,  and  whi(^h  he  granted  to  the  said  John 
Brygham  his  servant  for  life,  to  hold  by  the  services  of  as  many  knights' 
fees  and  as  many  other  rents  and  services  as  they  were  held  by  before 
4  March,  1  Edward  IV.  And  whereas  John  Odelond,  clerk,  William 
Hamond,  clerk,  Thomas  Coke,  John  Kyrton  and  Thomas  Welyworth  were 
lately  seised  in  their  demesne  as  of  fee  to  the  use  of  Thomas  Courtenay, 
late  earl  of  Devon,  of  a  messuage  with  a  garden  adjacent  with  shops,  solers 
and  cellars  annexed  in  the  parish  of  St.  Petroc,  Exeter,  in  which  Joan  Qwyk 
lately  dwelt,  and  at  the  special  request  of  the  said  earl  by  a  charter  dated 
the  moi  row  of  St.  Katherine  the  Virgin,  Henry  VI,  granted  the  same 
to  Henry  Faux  to  liohl  for  29  years  from  that  date  at  a  reut  of  10s.  yearly 
and  continued  their  estate  in  the  same  to  the  use  of  Thomas,  last  earl  of 
Devon,  attainted  of  high  treason  in  the  said  Parliament,  the  king  hereby 
grants  to  the  said  John  Lambard  and  his  heirs  and  assigns  the  said  rent  and 
the  reversion  of  the  said  premises,  to  hold  as  above.  By  p.s. 

Feb.  1.         Pardon  to  the  king's  servitor  Henry  Ferrers  of  Estpekham,  co.  Kent, 
Westminster,  escjuirc,  late  sheriff  of  Kent,  of  all  offences  committed  by  him  before 
20  November  last  and  all  fines,  issues,  debts,  accounts  and  arrears  due  to  the 
king.  By  p.3. 


188 


CALENDAR  OF  PATENT  ROLLS. 


1470.  Membrane  9 — cont. 

Feb.  20.        Grant  for  life  to  Peter  ile  la  Court  of  London,  '  skynner,'  of  the  office  of 
Westminster   yeoman  skinuer  of  the  great  wardrobe,  receiving  6d.  daily  from  the  issues 
of  the  counties  of  Somerset  and  Dorset  with  a  livery  yearly  at  the  said 
wardrobe  and  all  other  accustomed  profits.  By  p.s. 

Mandate  in  pursuauce  to  the  shoriff  of  Somerset  and  Dorset. 

Mandate  in  pursuance  to  the  keeper  of  the  great  wardrobe. 


Membrane  8. 

Feb.  8.  Inspexinms  and  confirmation  to  Isabel  Foresi,  the  prioress,  and  the  nuns 
Westminster,  of  Chesthunt  of  the  following: — 

1.  Letters  patent   dated  4   February,   1  Richard  IL  inspecting  and 

confirmiii'r  the  following, — 

(1)  Letters  patent  Oated  25  October,  41  Edward  III. 

(2)  Letters  patent  dated  18  May,  25  Edward  III.  inspecting  and 
confirming  letters  patent  dated  I  March,  18  Edward  II.  beirig  an 
exemplification  ol'  the  tenour  of  a  charter  dated  at  Westminster, 
11  August,  24  Henry  III.  \_Monasticon.'\ 

{?>)  A  charter  dated  at  Westminster,  3  July,  32  Edward  III. 
IChartcy  Roll,  32  Edward  III.  No.  5.] 

2,  Letters  patent  dated  27  November,  5  Richard  II,  inspecting  and 

confirming  letters  patent  dated  13  January,  25  Edward  III. 

For  2  mat  ks  paid  in  the  hanaper. 


1469. 

April  27. 
Westminster. 


1470. 

Feb.  12. 
VVeBtminster. 


Membrane  7. 

Exemplification,  at  the  request  of  the  mayor  and  aldermen  of  the  city  of 
London,  of  the  tenour  of  the  following  : — 

1.  Letters  patent  dated  12  October,  8  Edward  IV.  {see  p.  1 1  I),  granting 

to  the  king's  kinsman  William,  earl  of  Pembroke,  power  to  make  a 
weir  across  the  Thames. 

2.  A  writ  of  privy  seal  (English)  dated  17  A])ril,  9  Edward  IV.  directed 

to  Robert,  bishop  of  l>ath  and  Wells,  the  chancellor,  and  Robert 
Kirkeham,  keeper  of  the  rolls  and  books  of  Chancery,  commanding 
them  to  receive  and  cancel  the  said  letters  and  the  enrolment  thereof 
and  to  address  a  writ  to  the  treasurer  and  barons  of  the  Exchequer 
for  the  discbarge  of  the  said  carl  of  the  said  2Uv.  there  mentioned. 
The  king  granted  the  said  letters  because  he  was  informed  that  he 
was  entitled  to  a  weir  in  the  river  Thames  called  '  Holgilles  Were,* 
now  broken  and  utterly  destroyed,  but  William  Taillour,  the  mayor, 
and  the  aldermen  of  the  said  city  have  shown  that  they  have  the 
'  conservance  '  of  cca'tain  statutes  and  ordinances  within  the  said  river 
from  the  bridge  of  Staines  to  the  said  city  and  further  in  the  said 
water  and  the  water  of  Midway,  and  the  rebuihling  of  the  weir 
would  be  contrary  to  the  same  and  the  liberty  of  the  city,  and 
accordingly  the  said  earl  has  agreed  to  surrender  the  said  letters. 

3.  The  cancellation  of  the  said  letters  patent  and  of  their  enrolment  in 

accordance  with  tlie  said  writ  on  surrender  by  Kenelm  Dygas, 
attorney  of  the  said  earl,  on  24  April. 

Pardon  to  William  Rolff  late  of  Chctham,  co.  Kent,  '  husbondman,' of 
his  outlawry  in  the  county  of  Middlesex  for  not  appearing  before  the  king 
to  answer  for  certain  trespasses,  he  having  surrendered  to  the  Marsha!sea 
prison,  as  Thomas  Biliyng,  chief  justice  of  the  King's  IJench,  has  certified. 


0  EDWARD  IV.— Paut  II. 


18') 


]470.  Membrane  6. 

Feb.  21.  -  Whereas  from  time  immemorial  llie  bretliren  of  the  Hospital  of  St.  John 
Westminster,  of  Jerusalem  in  England  aceording  to  customs  and  ordinances  at  each 
voidance  of  the  hospital  proceeded  freely  and  witliout  royal  licence  to  tiie 
election  of  another  prior  from  tlicmselves,  nnd  the  issues  and  revenues  of  all 
the  posses>ions  of  the  hospital  during  voidance  pertained  to  the  treasurer 
of  the  hospital  afler  all  charges  and  hospitality  for  the  defence  of  the 
church,  the  Hdly  Land  and  the  Christians  against  the  Saracens,  Pagans 
and  other  enemies  without  any  seisin  into  the  king's  hands,  and  the  elect 
became  prior  and  was  admitted  to  all  the  possessions  of  the  hospital  without 
any  oath  of  fealty  or  suit  before  the  king;  and  although  in  the  lime  of 
Edward  III.  one  Leonard  do  Tibertis,  late  an  alien  brother  of  the  hospital 
and  born  witliout  the  king's  obedience,  was  elected  prior  and  did  fealty 
because  he  w.is  an  alien  but  under  protest  that  this  should  be  without 
prejudice  to  the  hos|)ital,  nevertheless  the  said  king  on  a  scrutiny  of  tin 
rolls  and  meraoran  la  of  tlie  Exchequer  acquitted  cue  Philip  de  Thame,  tho 
immediate  successor  of  the  said  Leonard  as  piior,  of  the  f-aid  fealty  and 
the  issues  of  the  lands  of  the  said  liospil.al  and  the  laiids  sometime  of  tha 
mai-ter  and  brethren  of  tiie  order  of  the  Temple  in  England,  in  the  handi 
of  the  said  prior  and  brethren,  taken  into  the  hands  of  the  said  king  b/ 
pretext  of  the  annulling  of  the  said  order;  and  on  the  late  voidance  of  the 
hospital  by  the  death  of  Robert  IJotill,  late  prior,  the  brethren  proceeded 
to  election  as  above  without  licence  and  elected  John  Langstrothcr,  and 
the  king  caused  the  reeordj,  rolls  and  memoranda  to  be  searched  and 
found  nothing  for  his  right,  and  the  said  John  was  instituted  prior  and 
b(!camc  possessed  of  the  possessions  of  the  hospital  and  afterwards  did 
fealty  under  protest  as  above,  and  the  issues  of  the  possessions  of  the 
hospiia!  during  the  voiilanec  were  answered  for;  the  king,  to  remove  all 
aml)iguit.y,  duclaies  that  all  tho  above  proceedings  on  the  jjart  of  the  pi'ior 
and  brethren  aro  lawful  am!  i.i  no  way  to  his  [jrejudice  or  detriment. 

By  p.s. 

Feb.  27.  Grant  to  the  king's  kinsman  John,  earl  of  Northumberland  and  lord  of 
Westminster.  Mountagu,  and  the  heirs  of  his  body,  for  liis  good  service  against  the  rebels 
and  the  Scots,  of  tho  manor  and  borough  of  Tyverton,  the  liundred  of 
Tyverton  with  the  advowsons  of  three  portions  with  cures  in  the  church 
of  Tyverton,  tho  castles,  tnanors,  lordships,  boroughs  and  hundreds  of 
Plymptoii  and  Okeh  impton,  the  manor  and  borough  of  Chalvelegh,  the 
manors  of  Colcombe.  Cloyton,  Musbury,  Colyford,  Whytford,  Sampford 
Courtenay,  Culme  John  and  Fareway,  co.  Devon,  a  moiety  of  the  manors 
of  Trcvervyn  and  Tregamoure,  co.  '^Jornwall,  the  honours  of  Plympton  and 
Okehampton  and  all  lands,  tenement-i,  knights'  fees,  rents  and  serviees  in 
Tyverton,  Plymton,  Okehampton,  Chalvelegh,  Colcombe,  Colyton,  Musbury, 
Coliford,  '\^  hit  ford,  Sampford  Courtenay,  Colmc  Joiin  and  Fareway 
aforesaid  and  a  moiety  of  the  manors  of  Trevervin  and  Tregamur  w  h 
knights'  fees,  ad\owsons,  franchises,  liberties,  hundreds,  leets,  views  of 
frank-pledge,  fairs,  markets,  free  chaces,  parks,  warrens,  fisheries,  wreck 
of  sea,  chattels  of  felons  and  fugitives,  chattels  called  mainour  and  other 
ju-ofits,  in  the  king's  hands  by  reason  of  an  act  in  Parliament  at  Westminster, 
4  November,  1  Edward  IV.  to  hold  by  the  accustomed  services,  with  all 
issues  fn)m  Michaelmas  last.  And  "rant  to  him  of  the  custodies  durinsr 
minority  of  John  Carue,  son  and  heir  of  Nicliohis  Carue,  esquire,  deceased, 
tenant  in  chief  by  kniglit-servico,  iind  John  Code,  son  and  heir  of  Walter 
Code,  esquire,  deceased,  tenant  in  chief  by  knight-service,  and  of  their  lands, 
with  the  marriages  of  the  heirs  without  disparagement.  By  p.s. 

Feb.  3.  Pardon  to  Thomas  Sone  of  Rotherwyk,  co.  Southampton,  '  husbondman,' 
Westmiuster.  of  his  outlawry  in  the  county  of  Middlesex  for  not  appearing  before  tho 


190 


CALENDAR  OF  PATENT  ROLLS. 


2470.  Membrane  6 — cont, 

king  at  Westmiusler  to  answer  for  divers  trespasses,  he  having  surrendered 
to  the  Marshalsea  prison,  as  Thomas  BiUyng,  chief  justice  of  the  King's 
Bench,  has  certified. 

The  like  to  Hugh  Cokke  of  Eversley,  co.  Southampton,  '  husbondman.' 


Membrane  5. 

Feb.  21.  Exemplification,  at  tlie  supplication  of  Jaquetta,  duchess  of  Bedford,  late 
Westminster,  the  w  ife  of  Richard,  earl  of  Ryver.'*,  of  the  tenour  of  an  act  in  the  great 
council,  remaining  in  the  office  of  the  privy  seal  in  the  chamber  of  the  great 
council  called  '  le  Farlment  chambre'  within  the  palace  of  Westminster,  made 
on  10  February,  9  Edward  IV.  In  the  presence  of  the  king  and  the  cardinal 
archbishop  of  Canterbury,  the  archbishop  of  York,  the  bishops  of  Bath, 
chancellor,  Ely,  treasui'er,  Rochester,  keeper  of  the  privy  seal,  London, 
Durham  and  Carlisle,  the  earls  of  Warwick,  Essex,  Northumberland, 
SJirevvsbury  and  Kent,  and  the  lords  Hastingcs,  Mountjoyo,  Lyle,  Cromwell, 
Scrope  of  Bolton,  Snye  and  others  a  supplication  addressed  to  the  king  on 
belialf  of  the  said  duchess  and  two  scliedules  in  paper  annexed  wero  openly 
read,  and  afterwards  his  highness  by  the  advice  of  the  said  lords  of  the 
council  accepting  the  declaration  of  the  said  lady  commanded  the  same  to  be 
enacted  of  record  and  letters  of  exemplification  to  be  made.  The  tenours  of 
the  supplication  and  schedules  above  mentioned  ensue  in  this  wise.  The 
duchess  complains  that  Thomas  Wake,  esquire,  in  the  time  of  tlie  late  trouble 
caused  her  to  be  brought  in  a  common  noise  and  slander  of  witchcraft 
throughout  a  great  part  of  the  realm,  insomuch  as  he  caused  to  be  brouglit  to 
Warwick  to  divers  of  the  lords  present  wlien  the  king  was  last  there  an  image 
of  lead  made  like  a  man  of  arms  of  the  length  of  a  man's  finger  broken  in  the 
middle  and  made  fast  with  a  wire,  saying  that  it  was  made  by  her  to  use 
with  witchcraft  and  sorcery,  and  for  the  performing  of  his  malicious  intent 
entreated  one  John  Daunger,  parish  clerk  of  Stoke  Brewerne,  co.  North- 
ampton, to  say  that  there  were  two  other  images  made  by  her,  one  for  the 
king  and  one  for  the  queen,  whereunto  the  said  John  Daunger  neither  could 
nor  would  be  entreated,  and  the  king  commandeil  the  siMd  Wake  and  John 
Daunger  to  attend  upon  the  bishop  of  Carlisle,  the  earl  of  Northumberland, 
the  lords  Hastyuges  and  Mountjoye  and  Master  Roger  Radcliff"  to  be 
examined,  and  their  examination  is  here  annexed,  and  in  the  great  council 
on  19  January  last  she  was  cleared  of  the  .said  slander,  wherefore  she  prays 
that  the  same  may  be  enacted  of  record.  Thomas  Wako  says  that  this 
image  was  shown  and  left  in  Stoke  with  an  honest  person  who  delivered  it 
to  the  clerk  of  the  church  and  so  showed  it  to  divers  neighbours  after  to 
the  parson  in  the  church  openly  to  men  both  of  Schytlanger  and  Stoke  and 
after  it  was;  shown  iu  Scwri>ley,  n  nunnery,  and  to  many  other  persons,  and 
of  all  this  he  heard  or  wi>t  nothing  till  after  it  was  sent  him  by  Thomas 
Kymbell  from  the  said  clerk.  John  Daunger  of  Shetyllanger  said  that 
Thomas  Wake  sent  to  him  one  Thomas  Kymbell,  then  his  bailiff,  and 
bad  the  said  John  send  him  the  image  of  lead  that  he  had  and  so  he  .sent  it, 
at  which  time  he  heard  no  witchcraft  of  the  lady  of  Bedford,  and  that  the 
image  was  delivered  to  him  by  one  Harry  Kyngest.on  of  Stoke,  who  found  it 
in  his  house  after  the  departing  of  soldiers,  antl  that  the  said  Tiiomas  Wake 
after  he  came  from  London  from  the  king  sent  for  him  and  said  that  he 
had  excused  himself  and  laid  all  the  blame  on  John  and  bad  him  say  that 
he  durst  not  keep  the  image  and  'or  that  cause  sent  it  to  Thomas  and  also 
bad  him  say  that  there  were  two  other  images,  one  for  the  king  and  one 
for  the  queen,  but  he  refused  to  say  so.  English.  [lio/ls  of  Parliament, 
VI.  5^32.]  By  p.s.  [3033.] 


9  EDWARD  IV.— Part  II. 


191 


1470.  Membranes  4  and  3. 

Fob.  14.        Exemplification,  at  the  request  of  Eleanor,  duchess  of  Norfolk,  lat(.  the 
Westminster,  wife  of  John,  duke  of  Norfolk,  tenant  in  chief,  of  the  tenour  of  the 
following : — 

1.  A  writ  directing  the  escheator  in  the  counties  of   Bedford  and 

Buckingham  to  make  assignment  of  dower  to  the  said  duchess 
in  the  presence  of  John,  duke  of  Norfolk,  son  and  heir  of  the  said 
late  duke,  a  minor,  or  his  attorneys.    10  February,  4  Edward  IV. 

2.  Assignment  of  dower  in  the  county  of  Bedford  made  in  pursuance 

by  .Tolin  Halcote  or  Holcoto,  esquire,  escheator,  in  the  presence  of 
John  Dalljy,  attorney  of  the  duke ;  viz.  a  yearly  rent  of  6/.  G5.  from 
the  manor  of  Stotfold,  and  divers  specifiwl  knights'  fees  and  parts  of 
knights'  fees  in  Arlicliesey,  Pavenham,  Hatley,  Wrastlyngwurth, 
Goldyngton,  Raveusden,  Cardyngton,  Milton  Bryan,  Stotfold, 
Canesho,  Copehill,  Cliiksond,  Gamelton,  Southyevill,  Stondon, 
Houghton,  Hammes  and  Cayso.    It  March,  5  Edward  IV. 

3.  Assignment  in  the  count}-  of  Buckingham  by  the  said  escheator  in 

the  presence  of  tiie  said  attorney;  viz.  divers  specified  knights' 
fees  and  parts  of  knights'  fees  in  Dunshall,  le  Vache,  Gransacre, 
Lynchelade  and  Soutlicote.    12  March,  5  Edward  IV. 

4.  Writ  as  above  for  the  county  of  Hereford  and  the  marches  of  Wales 

adjacent. 

5.  Assignment  made  in  pursuance  by  John  Harper  the  younger,  esqnire, 

escheator,  in  the  presence  of  John  ap  Griffith,  attorney  of  the  duke  ; 
viz.  the  castle,  town  and  lordship  of  Swaynesey  in  tlie  lordship  of 
Gower  in  the  said  marches,  to  tlic  value  of  11/.  yearly,  the  castle, 
manor  and  lordship  of  Pennarth  in  the  same,  to  the  vahie  of  18/. 
yearly,  the  manor  and  lordsiiip  of  Lunoii  in  the  same,  to  the  value 
of  18/.  yearly,  the  manor  and  lordshi|)  of  Kythill  in  the  same,  to  tiic 
value  of  41.  yearly,  the  Engiishry  of  Govver  a/uis  the  manor  or  lordshij) 
of  Westgower,  to  the  value  of  9/.  yearly,  and  three  water-mills  and 
a  fulling  mill  in  the  parish  of  Swaynesey  in  the  same,  to  the  valuo 
of  y/.  yearly.     10  March,  5  Edward  IV. 

6.  Writ  as  above  for  the  counties  of  Norfolk  and  Suffolk. 

7.  Assignment  made  in  pursuance  by  Ednnuul  Clere,  e.squire,  escheator, 

in  the  presence  of  John  Fen,  attorney  of  the  duke ;  viz.  the  third 
part  of  the  manor  of  Dekilbouigh,  co.  Norfolk,  to  the  value  of 
6  marks  yearly,  the  third  part  of  the  hundred  of  Laundyssh  and 
Southgren(;ho,  co.  Norfolk,  to  the  value  of  40*.  yearly,  the  third 
part  of  the  profit  of  the  knights'  court  of  Fornetete,  co.-  Norfolk,  to 
the  value  of  20*.  8^/.  yearly,  divers  specified  knights'  fees  and  parts 
of  knights'  foes  in  Kirkcby,  Hcylesdcn,  Kryngelesford,  Surlyiigham, 
Narburgli,  S\\ ayncsthorp  alias  Keynesthorp,  Floteman  Newton, 
Floidon,  For.'ihfold,  Shelton,  Funnalc,  Creke,  Multon,  Pally ng, 
Waklon,  Thorp,  Ilaly.-^,  Dekilburgh,  Loddon,  Estrudhain,  West- 
rudham,  Howton,  Fyncheham,  Dallyng,  Kcpheham,  Borowgli, 
Hellewefon,  Ilokwold,  Wilton,  Koughton,  Weston,  Scthyng,  Metton, 
Branyngham,  Wightlyngton,  Smalberowo,  Basyngham,  Ermcswet, 
Rynglond,  Kctoryngham,  Burgh  in  Flcgg  and  Baconcsthorp, 
CO.  Norfolk,  and  Wrautham  in  the  manor  tlicre  called  Ponyngos, 
CO.  SuH'olk,  the  advowson  of  the  j)riory  of  Thetford,  worth  40/. 
yearly,  and  the  advowsoiis  of  the  churches  of  Westwykc,  Fornscto, 
Colby,  Elyngh.'un,  Brokodich,  Southwalsliam  and  Dichynghani,  co. 
Norfolk,  each  worth  12  mark.s  yearly.    28  Fel)ruary,  4  Edward  IV. 

8.  Writ  as  above  for  the  county  of  Salop  and  the  marches  of  Wales 

adjacent. 

!\  Assignment  made  in  pursuance  by  Hugh  Harnage,  escheator,  in  the 
presence  of  John  ap  Gryffytli,  attorney  of  the  duke;  viz.  th«  manor 


192 


CALENDAR  OF  PATENT  ROLLS. 


1 470.  Memhrnnes  4  and  3 — conl. 

of  Abynbury,  to  the  value  of  14/.  15s.  (Sd.  yearly,  the  manor  of 
Esclusham,  to  tlic  value  of  22/.  as.  ycr.rly,  the  manor  and  lordship  of 
Dymille,  to  the  value  of  8/.  9s.  yearl}',  the  manors  of  Merford  and 
Hosley,  to  the  value  of  11/.  \2s.  yearly,  the  manor  of  Mortorne,  to 
the  value  of  7/.  14s.  yearly,  the  manor  of  Hem,  to  the  value  of 
10/.  13s.  yearly,  and  a  moiety  of  the  manors  and  lordships  of 
Sondeford  and  Osleston,  co.  Salop,  viz.  all  the  pourparty  of  the  said 
late  duke  in  those  manors,  to  the  value  of  2  3s.  yearly.  20  March, 
.5  Edward  IV. 

10.  Writ  as  above  for  the  counties  of  Surrey  and  Sussex. 

11.  Assignment  made  in  pursuance  by  John  Fust,  escheator,  in  the 
presence  of  John  Heyn,  attorney  of  the  duke;  viz.  the  manor  of 
Clayton,  co.  Sussex,  to  the  value  of  16/.  18.5.  yearly,  the  manor  of 
Seford,  CO.  Sussex,  to  the  value  of  79s.  yeaily,  a  yearly  rent  of 
36s.  \2d.  in  Iford,  co.  Sussex,  the  third  part  of  the  third  part  of 
the  forest  of  Wurthe,  co.  Sussex,  to  the  value  of  40c?.  yearly,  the 
third  part  of  the  third  part  of  the  fore.=t  or  chace  of  Cleeres,  co. 
Sussex,  to  the  value  of  40f/.  yearlyj  7  knights'  fees  in  Hammes, 
Bercompe,  Strete  and  Nytymbre  and  one  knight's  fee  in  Bevyngden 
and  Bercompe,  co.  Sussex.    12  March,  5  Edward  IV. 

12.  Writ  as  above  for  the  counties  of  Essex  and  llertfjnl. 

13.  Assignment  made  in  pursuan.cc  by  Thomas  Braughyng,  esclieator,  in 
the  presence  of  John  More,  attorney  of  the  duke;  viz.  a  moiety  of 
the  third  part  of  two  parts  of  tlic  manors  of  Higli  Rothyng  and 
Ovisham  Hall,  co.  Essex,  the  third  part  of  the  third  part  of  the 
same  manors  and  a  moiety  of  another  third  part  of  the  third  part 
of  the  same  manors,  to  the  value  of  10/.  yearly,  a  moiety  of  the 
third  part  of  tlie  manor  of  Langtons  in  Little  Cancfeld,  co.  Essex,  to 
the  value  of  40s.  yciirly,  a  moiety  of  the  manor  of  Wolfhampston  in 
Chigwell,  CO.  Essex,  to  the  value  of  66s.  8rf.  yearly,  and  a  moiety  of 
the  manor  of  Guyngo  Margarete,  co.  Essex,  to  the  value  of  40*. 
yearly.    10  March,  5  Edward  IV. 

31  EM B RAW?.  2. 

Feb.  28.  Foundation  of  a  perpetual  chantry  of  two  chaplains  to  celebrate  divine 
WestminstiT.  service  in  the  chapel  of  St.  Mary  in  the  cemetery  of  the  church  of 
BerkyuTchirchc,  London,  for  the  good  estate  of  the  king  and  his  consort 
Elizabeth,  queen  of  England,  and  his  mother  and  his  brothers  the  dukes  of 
Clarence  and  Gloucester,  and  for  their  souls  after  death,  and  the  souls  of 
the  king's  father  Richard,  late  duke  of  York,  and  the  king's  brother 
Edmund,  late  earl  of  Rutland;  and  appointment  of  William  Bonyfant  and 
Richard  Waryner  as  chaplains  of  the  chantry,  which  shall  be  called  the 
royal  chantry  in  the  chapel  of  St.  Alary,  Berkyng,  London.  And 
whereas  on  14  March,  ?  Edward  IV.  by  letters  i)atenL  the  king  granted  to 
his  kinsman  John,  earl  of  Worcester,  master  of  a  fraternity  or  gild  in 
honour  of  St.  Mary  the  Vi."gin  in  the  said  ch;tpcl,  and  John  Scotte,  knight, 
John  Tate  and  John  Crooke,  and  Thomas  Colte,  now  deceased,  the  wardens 
of  the  said  fraternity  or  gilil,  the  manor  or  priory  of  Totyngbeke,  co. 
Surrey,  for  the  sustenance  of  two  chaplains  to  celebrate  divine  service  as 
a!)ove,  be  now  grants  licence  for  the  said  master  and  the  said  Joha  Scotte, 
John  Tate  and  John  Crooke  and  William  Chattok,  now  wardens,  to  grant 
in  mortmain  a  yearly  rent  of  18/.  from  the  said  manor  or  priory  to  the 
chaplains  of  the  said  chantry  for  their  stipend,  viz.  10/.  to  the  said  Wdliam 
and  his  successors  as  principal  chaplain  and  8/.  to  the  s.iid  Richard  and 
his  successors  as  second  chaplain,  with  power  of  distraint,  and  grants  that 
they  shall  rot  othorwise  be  cliarged  with  the  sustenance  of  the  two  chaplains 


9  EDWARD  IV.— Part  II. 


193 


1470. 


1469. 

Oct..  24. 
Westminster. 


Membrane  2 — cont. 
specified  in  ilic  said  letters.  The  said  master  and  wardens  at  cacli  voidauce 
of  the  cliantry  shall  present  a  snitable  chaplain  to  the  dean  of  St.  Paul's, 
London,  for  institution,  without  jurisdiction  of  the  archdeacon  of  London. 
And  the  said  chaplains  shall  be  quit  of  all  tenths,  fifteenths,  tallages,  quota 
or  other  subsidies  granted  by  the  clergy  or  the  conimous  or  imposed  by  the 
king  or  the  pope.  By  bill  of  p.s. 

Grant  for  life  to  Robert  Chamberleyn,  knight,  of  the  office  of  sheriff  of 
the  county  of  Meryonnetli,  receiving  20/.  yearly  from  the  issues  of  the  county, 
and  the  office  of  constable  of  the  king's  castle  of  Hardelagli  in  that  county 
■with  24  soldiers  for  its  safe-custody,  receiving  from  the  said  issues  40  marks 
yejirly  for  himself  and  4tZ,  daily  for  the  wages  of  each  soldier,  with  all  other 
profits.  By  p.s. 


1409. 

April  18. 
Westiniu.stcr. 


Membrane  1. 

Inspexhniix  and  confirmation,  at  the  recpiest  of  James  Dokray,  esquire, 
mayor  of  the  town  of  Droglieda  in  Ireland,  of  letters  patent  under  the 
great  seal  of  Ireland  as  follows  : — Grant,  in  considc^ration  of  the  expenses 
of  the  mayor,  sheriffs  and  commonalty  of  the  said  town  in  the  main- 
tenance, repair  and  fortification  of  the  walls,  towers  and  pavements  and 
the  bridge  and  quay  and  the  defence  of  the  town  and  parts  of  the  marches 
of  the  counties  of  Meath  and  Louth  against  the  hostile  Irish,  and 
especially  in  resisting  John  Orailby,  captain  of  his  nation,  in  his  raid  into 
the  said  county  of  Louth  and  killing  him  and  300  of  his  accomplices,  and 
for  their  good  services  in  wars  in  Ireland  in  the  company  of  the  king's 
kinsman  .fohn,  earl  of  Worcester,  deputy  of  the  king's  brothei-  George, 
dnke  of  Claience,  lieutenant  of  Ireland,  and  at  the  request  of  the  commons 
of  Ireland  in  Parliament  held  at  Dublin  on  Friday  after  St.  Nicholas  last 
and  thence  adjourned  to  Droghcda,  that  William  Davy,  then  mayor,  and 
his  successor.^,  shall  have  a  sword  borne  before  tlu-m,  as  does  tSic  mayor 
of  the  city  of  London,  and  gi'ant  to  the  mayor,  slierifis  and  commonalty  of 
20/.  ycai-ly  from  the  issues  of  the  fee  farm  of  the  town.  Witnesses: — 
fJohn,  archbishop  of  Armagh,  primate  of  Ireland,  William,  bishop  of 
Meath,  Richard,  bishop  of  Kildare,  Robert  Preston,  knight,  lord  of 
Gormaneston,  Richard  Nugent,  knight,  baron  of  Delvyn,  Robert  de  Sancto 
Laurencio,  knight,  lord  of  llouth,  Thomas  Bathe,  knight,  lord  and  l)aron 
of  Louth,  John  Chevir,  chief  justice  of  the  King's  Bench  in  Ireland,  .John 
Cornwalshe,  knight,  chief  baron  of  the  Exchequer  of  Ireland,  Edmund 
Dudley  and  Hugli  Calveley;  knights,  and  others.  Given  by  the  hand  of 
the  deputy  at  Droghcda,  12  July,  8  Edward  IV. 

By  p.s.  and  for  40«.  paid  in  the  hanuper. 

Ai)pointment,  during  pleasure,  of  .lohn  Catesby  as  one  of  the  kiug'a 
Serjeants  at  law,  receiving  the  accustomed  fees. 


Membra  NE  22(L 

Nov.  7.  Commission  to  ,fohn  Chcyne,  James  Fitz  Jamc.«,  Nicholas  Sayntloo, 
Westminster.  Robert  Stowell,  John  Fitz  James  the  younger,  Richard  Cayton,  William 
Manncell  and  William  .Jacob  to  enquire  info  the  petition  of  Robert  C'atur 
that  whereas  one  John  Roche  was  lately  seised  in  his  demesne  as  of  ice  of 
8  messuages,  5  carucates  of  land,  20  acres  of  meadow  and  100  acres  of 
pasture  in  Kxton,  Wexford,  Rixyn  and  Stokegoniere,  co.  Somerset,  and 
enfeoffed  ^^'iiliam  Bonvile,  knight,  John  llody,  Alexander  Ilody,  William 
Copleston  and  Kichard  llaretre  of  the  same,  to  hold  to  themselves  and  the 
heirs  and  as.sigus  of  the  .-aid  Richard  llaretre,  and  one  John  Raynold,  clerk, 
.    3  'J6186.  N 


194 


CALENDAR  OF  PATENT  ROLLS. 


2469,  Membrane  22d — cont. 

wus  lately  seised  of  the  mauor  of  Iveton  with  appurtenances  in  Yveton  and 
Radelot,  co.  Somerset,  in  his  demesne  as  of  fee,  until  one  Richard  Lutrell 
unjustly  disseised  them  of  tlie  same,  and  after  the  death  of  the  latter  one 
.James  Lutrell  intruded  into  and  was  seised  of  the  same  in  his  demesne  as  of 
fee,  and  by  a  Kne  levied  at  Westminster  a  fortnight  after  Easter,  31  Henry  VI. 
before  John  Prysot  and  his  fellows,  justices  of  the  Bench,  between  Nicholas 
Radeford,  William  Dodesham  and  John  Loty,  plaintiffs,  and  the  said 
James  and  Elizabeth  his  wife,  deforciants,  concerning  5  messuages, 
3  carucates  of  land  and  6  acres  of  meadow  of  the  above  and  13c?.  rent  the 
said  deforciants  acknowledged  these  to  be  the  right  of  the  said  Nicholas  and 
the  plaintiffs  granted  them  to  the  said  James  and  EHzabeth  and  the  heirs  of 
the  body  of  James,  and  the  said  William  Bonvile,  John  Hody,  Alexander 
and  William  Copleston  died  and  also  the  said  John  Reynold  and  James 
Loterell,  and  the  said  Richard  Haretre  entered  into  the  messuages,  land, 
meadow  and  pasture  aforesaid,  in  the  possession  of  the  said  Elizabeth,  who 
survived  her  husband,  and  was  seised  of  the  same  in  his  demesne  as  of  fee 
and  enfeoffed  John  Catur,  clerk,  kinsman  and  heir  of  the  said  John  Roche, 
viz.  son  of  Joan  his  sister,  and  brother  of  the  said  Robert,  who  is  his  heir, 
of  the  same,  and  one  Henry  Reynold,  kinsman  and  heir  of  the  said  John 
Reynold,  viz.  son  of  William  his  brother,  entered  into  the  said  manor,  in 
the  possession  of  the  said  Elizabeth,  and  was  seised  of  the  same  in  his 
demesne  as  of  fee  and  enfeoffed  the  said  John  Catur  of  the  same,  and  the 
latter  was  seised  of  the  premises  in  the  present  reign  and  received  the 
esplees  thereof  and  on  his  death  without  heir  of  his  body  the  right  of  the 
premises  descended  to  the  said  Robert  as  his  brother  and  heir,  and  by  an 
act  in  Parliament  at  Westminster,  4  November,  1  Edward  IV.  it  waa 
ordained  that  the  said  James  by  the  name  of  James  Lotrell,  knight,  should  be 
attainted  of  high  treason  and  should  foi'feit  all  his  possessions,  and  by  an 
inquisition  taken  at  Ilchestre,  co.  Somerset,  on  26  Octobei-,  1  Edward  IV, 
before  Thomas  Gylle  the  younger,  then  cschoator,  it  was  found  that  a  fine 
was  levied  as  above  and  that  at  the  time  of  the  inquisition  the  said  Elizabeth 
lield  the  said  messuages,  lands,  meadow  and  rent  of  the  heir  of  Geoffrey 
Lutrell  and  they  were  worth  5  marks  yearly  and  that  the  said  James  held 
the  said  manor  jointly  with  his  wife  and  the  heirs  of  his  body  of  the  grant 
of  John  Loty  and  she  then  held  it,  and  by  another  inquisition  taken 
virtute  officii  at  Dun.ster,  co.  Somerset,  on  2(3  September,  4  Edward  IV. 
before  Tliomas  MauuceU,  esquire,  then  esclieator,  and  returned  into  the 
Exchequer,  it  was  found  that  the  said  James  was  seised  in  his  demesne 
as  of  fee  of  9  messuages,  3  carucates  of  land,  a  tolt,  300  acres  of  land, 
oO  acres  of  meadow,  100  acres  of  pasture  and  20d.  rent  in  Exton, 
Vexford,  Rixyn,  Stokegommere,  Huyssh  by  Heybrygge,  Cothelestou, 
Littyll  Carhamptou  and  lladlott,  co.  Somerset,  worth  12  marks  yearly,  and 
the  manors  of  Est  Cautok  and  Yveton,  co.  Somerset,  worth  20  marks 
yearly,  and  died  on  2  February,  39  Henry  VI,  and  the  premises  were 
accordingly  taken  into  the  king's  hands,  until  he  by  letters  patent  dated 
3  March,  4  Edward  IV.  granted  them  among  other  things  to  William 
Herbert,  knight,  lord  Herbert,  but  that  the  said  James  never  had  any  right 
in  them,  wherefore  the  said  Robert  prays  that  justice  may  be  done.    By  K. 


Membrane  20d. 

Nov.  16.        Commission  to  the  mayor  of  Norhampton,  John  Dyve,  Roger  Salesbiiry, 
"vVestuiiuster.  esquire,  Thomas  Osbern,  Richard  O^bern  and  John  Geffron  to  arrest  John 
Hamerton  and  Thomas  Grove,  monks  of  the  monastery  of  St.  Andrew, 
Northampton,  who  have  put  off  their  religious  habit,  and  with  other  evil- 
Uoers  have  so  threatened  William  Hamond,  prior  of  the  monastery,  and  his 


9  EDWARD  IV.— Part  II. 


195 


1469.  Membrane  20d — cont. 

fellow  monks,  that  they  for  a  loug  time  have  not  dared  to  attend  to  their 
duties  in  the  monastery,  wherever  they  may  be  within  the  county  of 
Northampton  and  to  bring  them  before  the  king  in  Chancery. 


3IEMBRANE  Idd. 

Oct.  29.        Commission  of  array  to  the  kings  kinsman  Edmund,  earl  of  Kent,  and 
Westminster.  Anthony  Grey  of  Kuthyn,  knight,  and  John  Stafford  of  Bukyngham, 
knight,  in  the  county  of  Buckingham. 
The  like  to  the  following  : — 

Edmund,  earl  of  Kent,  and  Anthony  Grey  of  Ruthyn,  knight,  in  the 

county  of  Bedford. 
Heurj'-,  earl  of  Essex,  Edmund,  carl  of  Kent,   John  Stafford  of 
Bukyngham,  knight,  and  William  Hastyuges  of  Hastynges,  knight, 
in  the  county  of  Huntingdon. 
John,  duke  of  Suffolk,  William  Harecourte,  knight,  and  William 

Norys,  knight,  in  the  county  of  Oxford. 
Richard,  duke  of  Gloucester,  John  Sutton  of  Dudley,  knight,  and 
Walter  Devcreux  of  Ferrers,  knight,  in  the  county  of  Salop. 

John,  earl  of  Oxford,  Henry,  earl  of  Essex,  Burghchier,  knight, 

Thomas  Burghchier,  knight,  and  John  Say,  kuight,  in  the  county 
of  Hertford. 

Henry  Grey  of  Codnorc,  knight,  Humphrey  Bourgchicr  of  Cromwell, 
knight,  William  Hastynges  of  Hastynges,  knight,  Walter  lilouiit  of 
Mountjoy,  knight,  and  Thomas  Burgh,  kniglit,  iu  the  county  of 
Nottingham. 

John,  earl  of  Oxford,  Henry,  earl  of  Essex,  Burghchier,  knight, 

Thomas  Burghchier,  knight,  and  Thomas  Mungomt-ry,  km'glit,  in 

(he  county  of  Essex. 
William  Burghchier  of  Fitz  Wareyn,  knight,  John  Audeley  oT  Aiuiclcy, 

knight,  John  Dynham  of  Dcuhani,  knight,  and  Fulk  Burghchier, 

knight,  in  the  county  of  Somerset. 
John  Dynham  of  Dynham,  knight,  in  the  county  of  Cornwall. 
Henry  Grey  of  Codnore,  knight,  John  Sutton  of  Dudley,  knight, 

William  Hastynges  of  Hastynges,  knight,  and  Walter  Blonnl  of 

Mountjoy,  kniglit,  in  the  county  of  Derby. 
John  Staflbrd  of  Bukyngham,  kuight,  and  William  Hastynges  of 

Hastynges,  knight,  in  the  county  of  iiutlund. 
Thomas  Burghchier,  John  Scot,  knight,  William  Haute,  knight,  John 

Colepepyr,    knight,  Ralph  Sayntleger,  John  Brymston,  Richard 

Colepepyr  and  James  Pekkeham,  in  the  county  of  Kent. 
William    Burghchier    of  Fitz  Wareyn,  knight,  John  Audeley  of 

Audeley,  knight,  and  John  Dynham  of  Dynhum,  knigiil,  iu  the 

county  of  Dorset. 

John,  duke  of  Norfolk,  and  Anthony,  earl  of  Ryvers,  in  tlic  county  of 
Norfolk. 

John    Audeley   of   Audeiej',   knight,  William  Burghchier   of  Fitz 

Wareyn,  knight,  John  J)ynhani    of  J^yniiam,  knight,  and  Fulk 

Burghchier,  in  tlic  county  of  Devon. 
Richard,  duke  of  Gloucester,  Walter  Devereux  of  Ferrers,  knight, 

and  William   Berkeley   of  Berkeley,  kuight,  in   the  county  of 

(Gloucester. 

Richard,  duke  of  Gloucester,  and  Walter  Devereux  of  Ferrers,  knight, 

in  the  county  of  Worcester. 
The  same  iu  the  same, 


CALENDAR  OF  PATENT  ROLLS. 


Memh'ane  \%d — cont. 

John,  duke  of  Suffolk,  Walter  Harecourt,  knight,  and  William  Norys, 

knight,  in  the  county  of  Berks. 
John,  duke  of  Norfolk,  and  Anthony,  earl  of  Ryvers,  in  the  county  of 

Suffolk. 

Henry,  earl  of  Essex,  Edmund,  earl  of  Kent,  Anthony  Grey  of  Ruthyn, 

knight,  and  Thomas  Gray,  in  the  county  of  Cambridge. 
Edmund,  earl  of  Kent,  Anthony  Grey  of  Ruthyn,  knight,  John  Stafford 

of  Bukyngham,  knight,  and  William  Hastynges  of  Hastynges, 

knight,  in  the  county  of  Northampton, 
William  Hastynges  of  Hastynges,  knight,  Thomas  Trussell,  knight, 

Thomas  Berkeley,  knight,  and  Richard  Hastynges,  in  the  county  of 

Warwick. 

William,  earl  of  Arundel,  Thomas  de  Matravers,  knight,  and  Richard 

Fenya  of  Dacre,  knight,  in  the  county  of  Sussex. 
William,  earl  of  Arundel,  Thomas  de  Matravers,  knight,  and  John 

Audeley  of  Audeley,  knight,  in  the  county  of  Wilts. 
Henry  Stafford  of  Bukyngham,  knight,  John  Stafford  of  Bukyngham, 

knight,  John  Sutton  of  Dudley,  knight,  and  William  Hastynges  of 

Hastynges,  knight,  in  the  county  of  Stafford. 
William  Hastynges  of  Hastynges,  knight,  Thomas  Trussell,  knight, 

Thomas  Berkeley,  knight,  and  Richard  Hastynges,  in  the  county  of 

Leicester. 

William,  earl  of  Arundel,  Thomas  de  Matravers,  knight,  Henry 
Stafford  of  Bukyngham,  knight,  John  Audeley  of  Audeley,  knight, 
John  Bourgchier  of  Barners,  kniglit,  and  Humphrey  Bourgchier, 
knight,  in  the  county  of  Surrey. 

William,  earl  of  Arundel,  Thomas  de  Matravers,  knight,  John 
Audeley  of  Audeley,  knight,  and  Eiehard  Fenys  of  Dacre,  knight, 
in  the  county  of  Southampton. 

John  Audeley  of  Audeley,  knight,  William  Stourton  of  Stourton, 
knight,  William  Brounyng,  .John  Neuburgh,  John  Mone,  John 
Carant  the  younger,  Henry  Rogers  the  younger  and  John  Carant 
the  elder,  in  the  county  of  Dorset. 

William,  earl  of  Arundel,  Thomas  de  Matravers,  kniglit,  Richard 
Darell,  knight,  Thomas  Uvedale,  knight,  Maurice  Berkeley,  John 
Powlet,  Edward  Berkeley,  William  Brokas,  John  Wallop,  John 
Whitehede,  John  Rogers,  Thomas  Brewene,  Thomas  Welles, 
Thomas  Pounde  and  John  Pounde,  in  the  county  of  Southamjiton. 

William,  earl  of  Arundel,  Thomas  Matravers,  knight,  John  Audeley  of 
Audeley,  knight,  William  Stourton  of  Stourton,  knight,  John 
Wiiloughhy,  knight,  George  Darell,  knight,  John  Broughton,  Henry 
Louge  and  Walter  Barough,  in  the  county  of  Wilts. 

John  Audeley  of  Audeley,  knight,  William  Bourghchier  of  Fitz 
Wareyn,  knight,  William  Stourton  of  Stourton,  knight,  John 
Dynham  of  l3ynham,  knight,  Christopher  Worseley,  Henry  Hull, 
Robert  Stowell,  John  Cheyne  and  Richard  Arthur,  in  the  county  of 
Somerset. 

John,  duke  of  Norfolk,  William,  earl  of  Arundel,  Thomas  dc 
Matravers,  knight,  Richard  Fenys  of  Dacre,  knight,  John  Fenys, 
knight,  Thomas  Echyngham,  knight,  Roger  Leukenorc,  knight, 
John  Leukenore,  William  Cheyny,  Robert  Oxenbrigge,  John  Wode, 
Bartholomew  Bolney  and  John  (ioryng,  in  the  county  of  Sussex. 

Edmund,  earl  of  Kent,  Anthony  Grey  of  Ruthyn,  knight,  Edmund 
Rede,  knight,  Richard  Fowler,  Thomas  Hampden  of  Hami^den, 
Richard  Lovell,  Thomas  Hampden  of  Kymbell,  .John  Langston, 
Thomas  Rokes  and  John  Scot,  in  the  county  of  Buckingham. 


0  EDWARD  IV.— Part  U. 


1469. 

Sept.  4. 
Westminster. 


Sept.  8. 

Westminster. 


Sept.  26. 
^Vestminste^. 


Nov.  16. 

Westminster. 


1470. 

Jan.  26. 
Westminster. 

Jan.  30. 
Westminster. 


Membrane  IHd. 

Appointment  of  the  king's  kinsman  John,  earl  of  Oxford,  William 
Hasty iiges  of  Hasty nges,  knight,  .John  Arundel),  knight,  Alvred  Corneburgh, 
e.S(]uire,  .John  Broke  and  Thomas  Aleyn,  auditors  of  the  duchy  of  Cornwall, 
and  Geoffrey  Kydvvelly  as  assessors  to  demise  all  lands  within  the  counties 
of  Devon  and  Cornwall  belonging  to  the  duchy  to  suitable  persons  for  terms 
of  twenty-one  years  or  less,  with  power  to  arrest  and  imprison  all  who  hinder 
them,  receiving  the  accustomed  fees  from  the  issues  of  the  duchy  at  the  hands 
of  the  receiver  general  of  the  duchy.  By  bill  of  the  treasurer. 

Commission  to  the  king's  kinsman  John,  duke  of  Norfolk,  William 
Calthorpe,  knight,  llobert  Wyngfeld,  knight,  I?ichard  Harecourt,  kniglil, 
John  lievenyngham,  knight,  John  Knyvet,  Roger  Tounesende,  Richard 
Southwell,  Henry  Haydon,  Richard  Maunteyn  and  the  sheriff  of  Norfolk 
and  Suffolk  to  arrest  John  Berney  of  Wychyngham,  esquire,  Nicholas 
Abbea,  .John  Spynke  and  John  Felbrigge,  esquire,  iiud  commit  them  to 
prison  until  ordered  to  bring  them  before  the  king  in  council. 

The  like  to  John  Aubry,  mayor  of  Norwich,  Henry  Spilman,  Thomas 
Elys,  Godfrey  Joye,  William  Swayne,  Edmund  Redknap,  Thomns 
Bokenham  and  the  sheriffs  of  the  said  city. 

Commission  to  Thomas  Roger  and  Thomas  Frank,  one  of  the  king's 
Serjeants  at  arms,  to  arrest  William  Wykys  of  Kyngeston,  Philip  Cresliy 
alias  Roche,  William  Broun  of  Shrevenam,  Roln'rt  Stone  of  Blonlisdoii, 
William  Robyns  of  Burton,  one  Elias,  chaplain,  Richard  Corveser  of 
Hyworth  and  Roljert  Synglcton  and  bring  tliem  before  the  king  in  council 
to  answer  for  certain  riots. 

Commission  of  array  to  the  king's  kinsmen  John,  duke  of  Norfolk,  and 
.John,  duke  of  Suffolk,  and  Anthony,  eail  of  Ryvers,  in  the  county  of 
Norfolk.    [F(e(/crn.]  By  K. 

The  like  to  the  same  in  the  county  of  Suffolk. 

Conynlssion  to  James  Crowmer,  Robert  Alartyn,  Richard  Martyn,  Robert 
Cheyny  and  Edward  Skelton,  one  of  the  king's  Serjeants  at  arms,  to  arrest 
Richard  T^ovelas  and  bring  him  before  the  king  in  Chancery. 

Commission  to  Ralph  Greystok  of  Greystok,  knight,  Robert  Maners, 
knight,  Richard  Ogle,  knight,  Robert  P^olbury,  Roger  Thorneton,  Thomas 
Norrey  king  of  arms,  and  the  sheriffs  of  Northnndjcrland  and  Newcastle  on 
Tyne  to  enquire  into  the  complaint  of  John  Davy,  merchant  of  Brittany, 
that,  when  under  confidence  of  the  treaty  between  tlie  king  and  his 
kinsman  the  duke  of  Brittany  he  was  sailing  on  18  April  last  in  a  ship 
of  Brittany  laden  with  wines  and  other  goods  and  merchandise  to  the  value 
of  3,000  crowns  {scutorum)  to  the  town  of  Newcastle  on  Tyne,  he  was  taken 
by  jiirates  in  certain  vessels  of  the  realm  victu.illed  by  John  Middlelon, 
knight,  and  Henry  Hagcrston,  esquire,  and  desj)oiled  of  the  ship,  goods 
and  merchandise,  and  to  cause  restitution  to  be  made  and  to  arrest  and 
imprison  the  offenders. 


1469.  Mehbrane  lid. 

.July  27.  Commission  to  the  king's  kinsman  Humphrey,  earl  of  Devon,  Hugh 
Westminster.  Courteney,  knight,  Henry  Bodrugan  and  Thomns  Trevry  to  enquire  into 
the  complaint  of  certain  merchants  of  Brittany  that  John  Wilcok,  master 
of  a  ship  called  Ic  Burhnru  of  Fowy,  Brigencius  Rouf,  Maurice  Cruce, 
John  Blak,  William  Hourd,  Tliomas  Raven,  one  Broun,  'goldsmyth,'  .John 
Vaek,  .Joiin  Robyu,  Thomas  de  Jarse,  Lucas  Wilbery,  Peter  Bonaniy, 
John  Gay  and  other  subjects  of  (he  king  at  various  times  captured  and 
disposed  of  divers  ships,  goods  and  merchandise  of  tlie  said  merchants 


198 


CALENDAR  OF  PATENT  ROLLS. 


1469.  Membrane  17  d — cont. 

confrary  to  the  form  of  the  treaty  between  the  kinjsc  and  his  kinsman  the 
fluke  of  Brittany,  viz.  on  17  May  last  near  Belle  Isle  a  ship  of  Roland 
Pinczon  called  Nosti-e  Dame  Duvynyer  Hirell  laden  with  37  tuns  of  wine 
of  Anjoii  and  other  goods  to  the  value  of  1,000  crowns,  on  15  May  last 
eight  packs  of  cloth  of  Paul  Fortin  from  a  ship  called  la  Kateryne  of 
Crauzon  of  which  Hervey  Meur  is  master  in  the  port  of  Crauzon  to  the 
value  of  1,000  crowns,  on  Tuesday  after  Whitsuntide  near  Belle  Isle  a 
carvel  of  William  Morice  called  Nostre  Dame  de  Seynt  Michell  laden  with 
23  tuns  of  wine  to  the  value  of  100/.  on  the  same  day  near  Belle  Isle 
another  carvel  of  John  Bizien  and  Guy  Laydenz  called  Saint  Julian  de 
Benaudei  laden  with  27  tuns  of  wine  to  the  value  of  lOOZ.  on  Whitsunday 
last  near  Belle  Isle  four  packs  of  cloth  of  divers  colours  and  one  pack  of 
linen  cloth  from  a  ship  of  Nicholas  Coetelem  of  Mourleix  to  the  value  of  120 
marks,  140  quintals  of  iron  and  other  goods  and  merchandise  to  the  value 
of  75  marks  near  Belle  Isle  from  a  carvel  of  Ivo  Guiole  coming  from  the 
parts  of  Spain  of  which  John  Gauffrid  and  Ivo  Quitac  were  masters,  about 
the  month  of  February  last  23  tuns  of  wine,  fruit,  iron  and  other  merchan-: 
dise  of  Hamo  Castelfur  to  the  value  of  125  marks  from  a  ship  of  Spain, 
on  the  feast  of  Corpus  Christi  10  tons  of  iron  and  other  goods  and 
merchandise  to  the  value  of  62  marks  from  a  ship  of  Guy  Lebaill  in  the 
port  of  Laseilles,  a  ship  of  Ivo  Guillo  laden  with  52  tuns  of  wine  of  Ivo 
Guiole,  a  carvel  laden  with  63  tuns  of  wine  of  Ivo  Guiole,  a  ship  called 
Loquircc,  of  which  Rio  Lebroier  was  master,  laden  with  cloths  and  other 
merchandise  of  one  of  the  archers  of  the  king's  kinsman  the  duke  of 
Brittany  to  the  value  of  50/.  four  tuns  and  one  pipe  of  wine  from  a  carvel 
of  John  Lebihan,  two  tuns  and  one  pipe  of  Gascon  wine  and  150  linen 
cloths  and  two  pieces  of  frieze  cloth  to  the  value  of  20  marks  from  a 
carvel  of  Ivo  Lucas  of  Mourleix,  four  tuns  of  Gascon  wine  from  a  carvel  of 
Edward  le  Mygnol,  a  tun  of  wine  and  gear  and  other  goods  to  the  value  of 
10/.  from  a  carvel  of  Nicholas  Quoeteulem  called  le  Marye  of  Mourleix, 
and  a  ship  of  John  Guillebot  and  James  Locabellok  laden  with  44  tuns  of 
wine  ;  and  to  seize  the  said  ships,  goods  and  gear,  and  to  arrest  the 
offenders  and  bring  them  before  the  king  in  council. 

1470. 

Jan.  6.  Commission  of  oyer  and  terminer  to  the  king's  brother  Richard,  duke  of 
Westminster.  Gloucester,  the  king's  kinsman  William,  earl  of  Pembroke,  John  Straunge 
of  Straunge,  knight,  John  Sutton  of  Dudley,  knight,  Walter  Devereux  of 
Ferrers,  knight,  James  Haryngton,  knight,  James  Baskervile,  knight, 
Humphrey  Stafford,  esquire,  John  Pilkyngton,  esquire,  John  Don,  esquire, 
William  Notyngham,  John  Milewater,  Johi  Harbert,  Thomas  Brugge  of 
Rcsse  and  Hugh  Hunteley  in  South  Wales.  By  K. 

The  like  to  the  same  in  North  Wales.  By  K. 


Membrane  \M. 

Feb.  18.        Commission  to  William  Courteney,  knight,  John  Langmede,  mayor  of 
Westminster.  Dertmouth,  Henry  Pomerey,  Oto  Gilbert,  John  Gilbys,  Thomas  Coterell, 
Thomas  Gale  and  the   sheriff  of  Devon  to  arrest  Thomas  Symond  of 
Dertemouth  and  Thomas  Bowey  of  Dertemouth  and  bring  them  before 
the  king  in  council. 


Membrane  I  Ad. 


Feb.  1.  Commission  to  the  sheriff  of  Kent  to  arrest  Richard  Lovelas,  who  with 
Westminster,  divers  evildoers  holds  and  fortifies  the  manor  of  Banford  alias  Babford,  co. 


9  EDWARD  IV.— Paut  II, 


190 


1470. 


Feb.  8. 

Westminster. 


Feb.  14. 


Feb.  12. 


Feb.  20. 
Westminster. 


Feb.  28. 


March  2. 


March  2. 


Mevibrane  \4.d — cont. 

Kent,  as  a  refuge  against  the  king's  officers,  and  to  bring  him  before  the 
king  in  Chancery. 

Commission  of  array  to  the  king's  kinsman  William,  earl  of  Arundel, 
Thomas  Matravers  of  Matravers,  knight,  John  Audeley  of  Audeley,  knight 
Richaid  Fenys  of  Dacre,  knight,  .John  Fenys,  knight,  Thomas  Echyngham, 
knight,  Roger  Leukenore,  knight,  Thomas  Leukenore  the  younger,  John 
Leukenore,  Thomas  Hoo,  Bartholomew  Bolney,  John  Wode,  Henry  Hallo, 
Robert  Oxbrigge,  John  Goryng,  Richard  Forster,  John  Fust,  John 
Fynche  and  the  sheriff,  in  the  county  of  Sussex.  By  K. 

The  like  to  the  following  : — 

Humphrey  Bourghchier  of  Cromwell,  knight,  William  Hastynges  of 
'  Hastynges,  knight,  Henry  Grey  of  Codnore,  knight,  Walter  Blount 

of  Mountjoy,  knight,  Thomas  Burgh,  knight,  William  Babyn<iton, 
Gervase  Clyfton  the  younger,  esquire,  Henry  Pei'poynt,  William 
Merynges  and  Robert  Sutton,  in  the  county  of  Nottingham. 
William  Hastynges  of  Hastynges,  knight,  Thomas  Trussell,  knight, 
Thomas  Berkeley,  knight,  Richard  Hastynges,  John  Bellers, 
Thomas  Palmer,  Richard  Staunton  and  Geoffrey  Sherard,  in  the 
county  of  Leicester. 

Henry,  earl  of  Essex,  Thomas  Bourchier,  knight,  Thomas  Mon- 
gomery,  knight,  John  Say,  knight,  Ralph  Bawede,  John  Fortosci', 
John  Leventhorp  the  elder,  Henry  Baric,  Thomas  Leventhorp, 
George  Nuport,  John  Boteler,  Thomas  Brokot,  .John  Knollos, 
.John  Pulter,  Edmund  Westby,  John  Sturgeon,  Ralph  Grey  and 
Tliomas  Edward,  in  the  county  of  Hertford. 

Edmund,  earl  of  Kent,  John,  earl  of  Wiltshire,  Anthony  Grey  of 
Rutliyn,  knight,  Ralph  Hastynges  and  Guy  Wol.ston,  in  the  county  of 
Northampton. 

John,  duke  of  Norfolk,  John,  duke  of  Suffolk,  Anthony,  earl  of 
liyvers,  and  John  Howard  of  Howard,  knight,  in  the  counties  of 
Norfolk  and  Suffolk. 

Thomas  Bourgchier,  kniojht,  .Tohn  Foggc,  knight,  John  Scotte,  knight, 
William  Pccchc,  knight,  William  Ilaufo,  knight,  John  Colpepyr, 
knight,  Alexander  Clyfford,  John  Bromston,  Roger  Appclton,  John 
Roo,  Richard  Colpepyr  and  .James  Pekham,  in  the  county  of  Kent. 

Edmund,  earl  of  I^ent,  John,  earl  of  Wiltshire,  Anthony  Grey  of 
Ruthyn,  knight,  William  Hastynges  of  Hastynges,  knight,  Richard 
Sapcotc,  knifiht,  John  Forster,  John  Stukeley,  William  Tnylard 
and  John  Collan,  in  the  county  of  Huntingdon. 

John,  earl  of  Northumberlnnd,  Ralph  Graystok  of  Graystok,  knight, 
William  Stanley,  knight,  John  Sayvile,  knight,  Riciiard  Fifzwilliam, 
knight,  William  Stapleton,  knight,  William  Rider  the  younger, 
knight,  John  Fereby,  William  Hopton  of  Swillyngton,  William 
Gascoigne,  Robert  Neville,  John  Woderofe  and  the  sheriff,  in  the 
West  Riding  of  the  county  of  York, 
John,  earl  of  Northumberland,  Ralph  Graystok  of  Graystok,  knight, 
liobert  Constable,  knight,  John  Constable,  knight,  Thomas  Meteham 
the  younger,  knight,  Thomas  Normanvile,  kniglit,  Robert  Ilillyard 
the  elder,  Martin  at  See,  John  Holme  of  Panic  Holme,  John 
Hattfeld,  Brian  Routhe,  William  Swillyngton,  William  Eures, 
Walter  Grymston  and  the  sheriff,  in  the  East  Riding.'! 

As  above  in  the  West  Riding. 
As  above  in  the  East  Riding. 


200 


CALENDAR  OF  PATENT  ROLLS. 


1470.  Membrane  14<7 — cont. 

Feb.  23.  Commission  to  William  Matliewe  alias  William  Worcestre  to  take 
Westminster,  carriage  for  the  stufp  {stiifura)  of  the  household.  By  p.s.  [3032.] 

March  2.       CommLssiojis  of  array  to  the  following  : — 

John,  earl  of  Northiimberlantl,  Ralph  Graystoke  of  Graystoke,  knight, 
Thomas  Scrope  of  TJpsall,  knight,  .James  Str&ngweys,  knight,  Ralph 
A  sshton, knight,  Leo  Percy,  knight.  Christopher  Conyers  of  Sokburne, 
knight,  William  Eure,  William  Bukton,  John  Hedlam,  Thomas 
Pudsey  of  Worsell,  Henry  Eure  of  Multon  and  the  sheriff,  in  the 
county  of  York. 

March  2.  The  same  iu  the  North  Riding  of  the  country. 


1469.  '  Membrane  IZd. 

Dee.  L  Commission  to  John  Cheyne,  James  Fitz.Tames,  Nicholas  Seyntloo, 
Westminster.  Robert  Stowell,  John  FitzJames  the  younger,  Richard  Cayton,  William 
Mauncell  and  William  .Licob  to  enquire  into  a  petition  of  Thomas  Bole 
and  Alice  his  wife,  as  sister  and  heiress  of  John  Catur,  clerk,  concerning 
certain  premises  in  Exton,  Vexford,  Rixyn,  Stokegommere,  Iveton,  and 
Radelot,  CO.  Somerset.  \_The  claim  corresponds  to  that  of  Robert  Catur 
on  m.  22d  above.}  By  p.s. 


1470.  Membrane  \0d. 

Feb.  8.  Commission  to  John  Aruudell,  knight,  Alvred  Corneburgh,  Robert 
AVestminster.  Wyllughby,  .John  Treuowith  and  John  Carmynowc  to  arrest  John  Harry, 
Thomas  Flete,  Robert  Philippes,  John  Fayrechild,  John  Beket,  William 
Frost,  John  Bowedon,  John  Crofte,  Richard  '  of  Stable,'  John  Dygonet, 
Robert  Bryant,  Richard  Stephyn,  John  Ambros  and  Robert  Netherton 
and  bring  them  before  the  king  snd  council  to  answer  for  certain  riots. 
Feb.  13.  Commission  to  the  king's  kinsman  .John,  earl  of  Northumberland,  Thomas 
We.stminster.  Burgh,  knight,  Thomas  Moigne,  Robert  Sheffeld,  Thonias  FitzWilliam  and 
Leonard  Thornburgh  to  enquire  into  the  petition  of  the  king's  aunt 
Katharine,  duchess  of  Norfolk,  that  whereas  Richard  Byngham,  knight, 
Richard  Neell,  one  of  the  justices  of  the  Bench,  Thomas  Staunton  and 
Thomas  Garwell,  clerk,  were  seised  of  the  manors  of  Grymesthorpe, 
Aylesthorpe  and  Southorpe,  co.  Lincoln,  in  their  demesne  as  of  fee  in  time 
of  peace  in  the  time  of  the  late  king  and  received  the  esplees  thereof  and 
afterwards  by  deed  indented,  of  which  one  part  is  ready  to  be  shown  by 
her,  dated  12  July,  38  Jlenry  VI,  demised  them  among  other  things  to 
her  by  the  name  of  Katharine,  duchess  of  Norfolk,  late  the  wife  of  John, 
viscount  Beaumont,  for  life  and  she  was  seised  thereof  and  received  the 
esplees  and  continued  her  seisin  until  15  October,  4  Edward  IV.  and  by 
authority  of  an  act  in  Parliament  at  We-stminster,  4  November,  1  Ed- 
ward IV.  William,  viscount  Beaumont,  son  and  heir  of  the  said  John,  late 
viscount,  was  attainted  of  high  treason,  and  by  an  inquisition  taken  at  the 
castle  of  Lincoln  on  the  said  15  October  before  John  Burgh,  esquire,  late 
escheator  iu  the  county,  by  virtue  of  his  office  it  was  found  that  the  said 
late  viscount  was  seised  of  the  said  manors  in  his  demesne  as  of  fee  and 
before  4  March,  1  Edward  IV.  enfeoffed  Roger  Huswyff,  Thomas  Staunton, 
Richard  Byngham,  John  Trenthale,  Thomas  Garwell  and  Richard  Neell  of 
them  to  the  use  of  himself  and  his  heirs,  and  he  died  before  the  said  4 
March,  and  they  were  then  seised  of  the  same  to  the  use  of  the  said  viscount 
William,  attainted  as  above,  and  his  heirs,  on  the  said  15  October  by  colour 
of  the  said  inquisition  and  by  force  of  the  said  act  she  was  expelled  from 
them  by  the  said  e.scheator,  but  that  no  one  had  any  right  t(i  them  during 
her  life,  wherefore  she  prays  that  justice  may  be  done.  By  K. 


9  EDWARD  IV.— Part  II. 


201 


1470.  Membrane  9d. 

Jan.  ]3.  Commission  to  John  Alcok,  John  Botellerr,  John  Pese  and  John  Coko, 
AVcstiiiinstcr.  doctors  of  decrees  and  laws,  Micliael  Carvanell  and  Richard  Laty,  bachelors 
of  law,  and  Robert  Cobolle,  John  Pemberd  and  Thomas  Daxe  of  London, 
merchants,  of  the  king's  authority  in  an  appeal  by  Edmund  Pygot,  citizen 
and  skinner  of  Loudon,  against  a  judgement  of  William  Godeyere,  doctor  of 
laws,  lieutenant  and  commissary  general  of  the  king's  brother  Richard,  duke 
of  Gloucester,  admiral  of  England,  Ireland  and  Aquitaine,  at  Horton 
Key  in  Suthwerk  by  the  tideway  in  the  accustomed  place  in  the  parish  of 
St.  Olave,  in  a  maritime  case  concerning  the  atfreightment  of  5  tuns  of 
wine  and  one  pipe  between  John  Ottour,  plaintiff,  and  the  said  Edmund, 
defendant. 

Commission  to  Clement  Hill,  master  of  a  ship  called  Edward  Howard, 
George  Orell  and  Ingelram  Bell  to  take  mariners  for  the  said  ship  to  serve 
the  king,  who  is  preparing  an  armed  force  to  resist  his  enemies  at  sea. 

The  like  to  the  following  : — 

John  Porter,  master  of  a  ship  called  Ic  Trynyte  Warrewyh. 
Robert  Grave,  master  of  a  ship  called  le  Old  Elyn. 
Thomas  Roger,  master  of  a  ship  called  le  Cristoj'ore. 
.John  Rawelyn,  master  of  a  ship  called  le  Maryarct  Howard. 
Giles  Curteys,  master  of  a  ship  called  le  Barye  of  Calais,  John 

Slialcdon  and  Thomas  Flete. 
John  Skynner,  master  of  a  ship  called  le  Pctyr  of  Harewyche. 
William  Combe,  master  of  a  ship  called  Ic  Car  veil  dc.  Tuk. 
John  Blieut  and  Simon  Rede  for  a  ship  called  le  I'orlinyule. 


Feb.  20. 
VVestuiinster. 


Membrane  5d. 

.Time  22.  Commission  to  the  mayor  and  Ijailiffs  of  the  town  of  Bishop's  Lenn,  the 
Westminster,  bailiffs  of  the  town  of  Scardeburgh  and  John  More,  alias  Windsor  heraUl,  on 
complaint  by  Vincenot  le  Noble,  Francis  Dappcmont,  Perrenot  Morice, 
William  Gardyn,  John  le  Foretier,  Vincent  le  Noble,  Robert  Acher, 
Perrenot  de  Saint  Morice  and  John  Fransoys,  merchants  of  Depe  in 
Normandy,  that  divers  pirates  in  a  carvel  of  Lenn,  of  which  Robert 
Gryng  is  master,  and  William  Warldes,  William  Vilmyn  and  John  Tille  are 
victuallers,  took  them  in  three  ships  of  France  and  despoiled  them  of  the 
said  ships  and  divers  goods  and  merchandise,  contrary  to  the  form  of 
letters  of  safe-conduct  of  the  king,  to  arrest  the  said  Robert  (rryng, 
William  Warldes,  William  Vilmyn  and  John  Tille  and  bring  them  before 
the  king  in  council  on  21  July  next,  and  to  seize  the  said  ships,  goods 
and  merchandise  and  Myuyn  Knault  (le  la  I'appe,  Roger  Fouterell,  ,Iohn 
Degoue,  Nicholas  Visier,  John  Frequet,  Ivonnait  le  Sage  and  a  servant  of 
the  said  Ivonnait,  mariners  in  the  said  ships  at  the  time  of  their  capture, 
and  keepthoni  in  safe  custody  and  certify  accordingly  to  the  king  in  council. 
Vacated  because  elsewhere  in  the  tenih  year. 


202 


CALENDAE  OF  PATENT  ROLLS. 


10  EDWARD  IV. 


1470. 

May  15. 

Westminster, 


May  11. 

Westminster. 


May  23. 
Westminster. 


May  25. 

Westminster. 


May  28. 
Westminster. 


May  27. 
Westminster. 


June  4. 
Westminster. 

June  2. 
Westminster. 


Membrane  15. 

Pardons  of  outlawry  to  the  following  : — 
Thomas  Yonge  late  of  Ipswich,  co.  Suffolk,  '  chapman,'  alias  'yonian,' 
alias  '  marchant,'  for  not  apjiearing  before  the  justices  of  the  Bench 
to  answer  Isabel  Ryche,  widow,  and  Thomas  tJrswyk,  recorder  of 
the  city  of  London,  touching  a  debt  of  17/.  10?.  the  same  touching 
a  like  debt,  and  Richard  Felowe,  merchant,  Gilbert  Debenham, 
esquire,  and  John  Wyngfeld  alias  Wynkfeld,  knight,  touching  debts 
of  20  marks,  321.  and  9/.  respectively ;  he  having  surrendered  to  the 
Flete  prison,  as  Robert  Danby,  chief  justice  of  the  Bench,  has 
certified.  London,  Suffolk. 

William  Bay  late  of  Haloughton,  co.  Leicester,  '  husbondman,'  for  not 
appearing  to  answer  John  Seynton,  clerk,  touching  a  debt  of  20/. 

London, 

John  Hamon  of  Reynham,  co.  Kent,  '  husbondman,'  for  not  appearing 
when  sued  with  Katharine  his  wife  late  the  wife  of  John  Pocok  late 
of  Reynham,  '  husbondman,'  executrix  of  the  will  of  John  Pecok, 
to  answer  a  plea  that  they  render  20/.  to  Richard  Playstowe,  citizen 
and  '  couper '  of  London.  Kent. 

John  Simond  late  of  London,  '  yoman,'  for  not  appearing  to  answer 
Nicholas  Toller,  citizen  and  skinner  of  London,  touching  a  debt 
of  12/.  Middlesex. 

Thomas  Welham  of  Bury  St.  Edmunds,  co.  Suffolk,  '  dyer,'  for  not 
appearing  before  Richard  Neuton  and  his  fellows,  justices  of  the 
Bench  of  the  late  king,  to  answer  John  Ryng  and  Roger  Ryng, 
merchants  of  Almain,  touching  a  debt  of  6/.  5.?.  London. 

William  Welby  late  of  Great  Carleton  by  Thedilthorpe,  co.  Lincoln, 
'  mercer,'  for  not  appearing  before  the  justices  of  the  Bench  to 
answer  Richard  Symkj'nson  touching  a  debt  of  10/.  London. 

Richard  Pycard  late  of  Rothewell,  co.  Northampton,  'chopchirch,' 
alias  clerk,  for  not  appearing  to  answer  Stephen  Dobson,  clerk,  and 
William  Taillour  touching  a  debt  of  5  marks.  Buckingham. 

John  Hyklyn  of  Whiston,  co.  Northampton,  '  yoman,'  for  not 
appearing  before  John  Prisot  and  his  fellows,  justices  of  the  Bench 
of  the  late  king,  to  answer  Robert  Sutton,  citizen  and  tailor  of 
London,  touching  a  debt  of  40*.  London, 

John  Abbery  of  Walden,  co.  Essex,  *  chapman,'  for  not  appearing 
to  answer  Thomas  Dalson,  citizen  and  '  glover '  of  London,  touching 
a  debt  of  '10s.  London. 

William  Pryk  of  Frennesbury,  co.  Kent,  '  shipman,'  for  not  appearing 
to  answer  Richard  Greneoke  touching  a  debt  of  53s.  8d.  Essex. 

William  Hyde  of  Derby,  esquire,  for  not  appearing  before  the  justices 
of  the  Bench  to  answer  Thomas  Lympnour,  citizen  and  mercer  of 
London,  touching  at  debt  of  6/.  13s.  4d.  London. 

William  Faldyngworth  of  Geyton  in  le  Merssh,  co.  Lincoln,  clerk,  for 
not  appearing  to  answer  Richard  Symkynson  touching  a  debt  of  30/, 

Loudon. 


10  EDWARD  IV. 


203 


Membrane  15 — cord. 

John  Elyot  late  of  Barnak,  co.  Northampton,  *yoman,'  for  not 
appearing  to  answer  William  Overton  touching  a  debt  of  47/.  10*. 

Middlesex. 

William  Derby  of  Bury  St.  Edmunds,  co.  Suffolk,  'dyer,' for  not 
appearing  before  John  Prisot  and  his  fellows,  justices  of  the  Bench 
of  the  late  king,  to  answer  Tho  mas  Westwode  touching  a  debt  of  405. 

Suffolk. 

Richard  Turfyn  late  of  Wysbeche,  co.  Cambridge,  '  botewright,'  for 
not  appearing  before  the  justices  of  the  Bench  to  answer  Henry 
Grene,  escjuirc,  touching  a  trespass  committed  by  him  and  John 
Bare t  late  of  Sutton  in  Holand,  co.  Lincoln,  '  taillour,'  John  Ely 
late  of  Flete,  co.  Lincoln,  '  wcver,'  John  Cook  late  of  Gedney,  co. 
Lincoln,  '  husbondman,'  John  Carter  late  of  Gedney,  '  smytli,' 
William  Greyson  late  of  Gedney,  '  husbondman,'  Robert  Dawe  late 
of  Gedney,  '  laborer,'  John  BIynslaugh  late  of  Gedney,  '  husbondman, 
Thomas  Wynde  late  of  Gedney,  '  husbondman,'  William  Wynde  late 
of  Gedney,  'husbondman,'  John  Taillour  late  of  Welle,  co. 
Cambridge,  '  husbondman,'  Alan  Michell  late  of  Watton,  co.  Norfolk, 
*  osteler,'  John  Robertson  late  of  Gedney,  '  husbondman,'  Robert 
Dobyn,  late  of  Gedney,  '  husbondman,'  and  Robert  Smyth  late  of 
Gedney,  *  wever.'  London. 

Geoffrey  Smyth  late  of  Sullyngton,  co.  Sussex,  clerk,  alias  lato  parson 
of  the  church  of  Sullyngton,  for  not  appearing  to  answer  Robert 
Pussyn  of  London,  '  dyer,'  touching  a  debt  of  40/.  London. 

William  Gylys  late  of  Keteryng,  co.  Northampton,  '  cha[)mau,'  for  not 
appearing  to  answer  Geoffrey  Owen  tuuchiug  a  debt  of  CO*. 

Bristol. 

Roger  Bromer  of  London,  'draper,'  for  not  appearing  before  John 
Pry.sot  and  his  fellow.s,  justices  of  the  Bench  of  the  late  king,  to 
answer  Thomas  Brygges,  citizen  and  draper  of  London,  touching 
a  debt  of  40?.  •  London. 

Richard  Morley  late  of  Aspden,  co.  Hertford,  '  gentilman,'  alias  late 
of  London,  for  not  appearing  before  the  justices  of  the  Bench  to 
answer  John  Martyn  the  elder,  citizen  and  grocer  of  London, 
tonching  debts  of  5  marks  and  4/.  13*.  4c/.  London. 

William  Joce  late  of  Bristol,  '  marcluvunt,'  for  not  appearing  to  answer 
John  Martyn  alias  Marton  alias  of  the  parish  of  Druys  Taynton, 
CO.  Devon,  touching  a  debt  of  6/.  Devon. 

John  Basset  late  of  Great  Chesehull,  co.  Essex,  '  gentilman,'  for  not 
appearing  to  answer  .John  Smale  of  London,  '  gentilman,'  touching 
a  debt  of  6  marks.  Middlesex. 

Membrane  14. 

Augustine  Tyler  late  of  Hadlcy,  co.  Suffolk,  '  gentilman,'  for  not 
appearing  to  answer  a  plea  that  he  render  80/,  to  John  Howard, 
knight,  and  Margaret  his  wife,  late  the  wife  of  John  Norys, 
executrix  of  the  will  of  .Tolin  Norys  or  Noris,  es(iuire,  late  of  the 
parish  of  Bray,  co.  Berks.  Middlesex. 

Thomas  Aleyu  late  of  London,  ciiaplain,  for  not  appearing  to  answer 
William  Carpenter,  chaplain,  touching  a  trespass.  Southampton. 

Vacated  because  elseultere  in  the  ninth  year. 

Thomas  Fulkus  late  of  Luton,  co.  Bedford,  'yoman,'  for  not  appearin"' 
to  answer  a  plea  that  he  render  6/.  to  John  Dalamare,  Henry  Dalamare, 


204 


CALENDAR  OP  PATENT  ROLLS. 


1470. 


July  10. 

Westminister. 


July  5. 
Westminster. 


July  5. 

Westminster. 


July  11. 
Westminster. 


Membrane  14 — cont. 

Geoffrey  Challey  and  Thomas  Piper,  executors  of  the  will  of  John 
Dalamare  late  of  Markyate  in  the  parish  of  Cadyngton,  and  Hugh 
Holt  and  Alice  his  wife,  lately  called  Alice  Dalamare,  their  co- 
executrix.  Bedford. 
Thomas  Cheles  of  Ingoldmels,  co.  Lincoln,  *  taillour,'  for  not  appearing 
before  Richard  Neuton  and  his  fellows,  justi(!es  of  the  Bench  of 
the  late  king,  to  answer  a  plea  that  he  render  chattels  to  the  value 
of  40*.  to  Robert  Norys.  Lincoln. 

John  Shoil  late  of  Shaftesbury,  co.  Dorset,  the  younger,  'mercer,'  for 
not  appearing  before  the  justices  of  the  Bench  to  answer  Geoffrey 

touching  a 
Middlesex. 


Feldyng,  '  mercer,'  and  Edmund  Redeknape,  '  mercer,' 
debt  of  140/. 


Philip  Godman  late  of  Shaftesbury,  co.  Dorset,  '  wexchaundeler,'  for 
not  appearing  to  answer  Geoffrey  Feldyng,  '  mercer,'  and  Edmund 
Redeknape,  *  mercer,'  touching  a  debt  of  140/.  Middlesex. 

John  Burton  late  of  Canterbury,  'hosteler,'  for  not  appearing  to 
answer  John  Shukburgh,  citizen  and  'upholder'  of  London, 
touching  a  debt  of  40s.  London. 


Membrane  13. 

March  4.  General  pardon  to  .John  Howard,  knight,  lord  Howard,  late  one  of  the 
Westminster,  king's  commissioners  of  the  town  and  castle  of  Calais  and  the  tower  of 
Risebanke  and  the  castles  of  Guysnes  and  Harames  and  the  marches  there 
in  the  parts  of  Picardy  on  the  addition  of  soldiers  in  the  said  places  under 
the  name  called  '  le  Crien,'  of  all  offences  committed  by  him  before 
28  February  last  and  all  fines,  issues,  debts,  accounts  and  arrears  due  to  the 
king;  provided  that  this  shall  not  extend  to  his  account  with  the  treasurer 
of  the  household  or  his  accounts  by  reason  of  any  shrievalties.  By  K. 

Appointment  of  the  said  John,  lord  Howard,  as  captain  and  governor  of 
the  armed  power  prepared  by  the  king  for  the  custody  of  the  sea. 

By  K.  [4327.] 

May  13.  Grant  to  the  king's  kinswoman  Anne,  countess  of  Pembroke,  of  the 
Westminster,  custody  of  all  castles,  lordships,  manors,  lands,  rents,  services  and  other 
possessions  with  knights'  fees  and  advowsons  in  England  and  Wales  Jute 
of  William,  earl  of  Pembroke,  deceased,  tenant  in  chief,  during  the 
minority  of  William  his  son  and  heir,  the  honour,  castle  and  lordship  of 
Dunster  and  all  other  lordships,  manors,  lands  and  other  possessions  laie  of 
James  Loterell,  knight,  granted  to  the  said  late  earl  and  the  heirs  of  his 
body  by  letters  patent  excepted ;  to  hold  in  recompence  of  her  dower  in 
the  same.  By  p.s. 

May  G.  Grant  to  Philip  Beaumont,  esquire,  of  the  office  of  constable  of  the  castle 
Southampton,  of  Dunstar  and  steward  of  the  castle  and  lordship  of  Dunstar  and  all  lord- 
ships and  lands  late  of  James  Luterell,  knight,  in  the  counties  of  Somerset 
and  Devon  in  the  king's  hands  by  the  death  of  William,  earl  of  Pem- 
broke, during  the  minority  of  William,  earl  of  Pembroke,  his  son  and 
heir,  with  the  mastership  of  the  game  of  all  parks  of  the  said  lordships  and 
lands,  receiving  the  accustomed  fees  from  the  issues  of  the  said  lordships 
and  lands.  By  p.s, 

April  25.       Appointment,  during  pleasure,  of  John  Gray,  esquire,  to  the  office  of 
Salisbury,     tronage  and  pesage  in  the  port  of  Southampton  and  ports  and  places 
adjacent  from  Christmas  last,  receiving  the  accustomed  fees. 

By  bill  of  the  treasurer. 


10  EDWARD  IV. 


205 


1470. 

Jlay  19. 
Westminster. 


]\Iay  17. 

Westniinstor. 


May  20. 
Westminster. 


May  20. 

Westminster. 

May  22. 

.Westminster. 


Membrane  1.3 — cont. 

Revocation  of  the  protection  with  clause  volumus,  for  one  year,  lately 
granted  by  letters  patent  to  Thomas  Oxenbrigge  of  Bekele,  -co.  Sussex, 
esquire,  alias  '  gentilman,'  alias  of  liatillesden,  co.  Bedford,  alias  of 
Wyngrave,  co,  Buckingham,  late  escheator  in  the  counties  of  Bedford  and 
Buckingham,  staying  on  the  king's  sers'ice  in  the  company  of  Richard  de 
Neville,  earl  of  Warwick  and  Salisbury,  late  captain  of  the  town  and  castle 
of  Calais  and  the  castle  of  Gnysnes,  on  the  victualling  and  defence  of  the 
same,  because  he  delays  in  London,  as  Robert  Drope  and  Richard  Gardiner, 
sheriffs,  have  certified. 

Grant  during  minority  to  Richard  Whitlegh  and  Elizabeth  his  wife 
of  the  custody  of  .John  Carew,  son  and  heir  of  Nicholas  Carew,  esquire, 
deceased,  with  the  wardship  and  marriage  of  the  heir  without  disparagement 
and  the  custody  of  all  his  manors  and  lands,  and  so  from  heir  to  heir  during 
minority.  By  p.s. 

Grant  to  Edmund  Hastynges,  knight,  of  the  office  of  master  forester  of 
the  forest  of  Datiby,  co.  York,  with  the  accustomed  lees  and  other  profits 
at  the  hands  of  the  king's  receiver  there  during  the  minority  of  Richard 
Neville  son  and  heir  of  Henry  Neville,  son  and  heir  of  the  late  lord  Latymer. 

By  p.s. 

General  pardon  to  William  Braddon  of  Welly.s,  co.  Somerset,  'tanner,' 
of  all  offences  committed  by  him  before  10  May  last.  By  p.s. 

'J'he  like  to  William  Say  son  of  John  Say,  knight,  of  all  offences 
conmiitted  by  him  Ijcfore  18  May.  By  p.s. 


Membrane  12. 


March  14. 
kjtaniford. 

March  23. 
York. 


March  16. 
Newark. 


March  1.3. 
ytamt'ord. 


March  17. 
Kcwark. 


Appointment  for  life  of  the  king's  kinsman  John,  earl  of  Worcester,  as 
constable  of  England,  receiving  the  accustomed  fees  at  the  receipt  of  the 
Exchequer.    [^Faxlera.^  By  K. 

Ai)pointment,  during  pleasure,  of  the  .said  carl  as  lieutenant  of  Ireland  in 
the  same  manner  as  George,  duke  of  Clarence,  lately  had  the  office, 
receiving  such  fees  as  the  said  duke  had  at  the  hands  of  the  treasurer  of 
Ireland.  By  K. 

Grant  for  life  to  John  Dynham,  lord  Dyniiam,  and  liis  assigns  of  the 
custody  of  the  king's  forests  of  Exmore  and  Raccher,  co.  Somerset,  and  the 
herbage  and  pannage  of  the  forests  and  the  court  of  swaimiote  there, 
rendering  to  the  king  40  marks  yearly.  By  p.s. 

Protection,  for  one  year,  for  Peter  Sans  of  Bencsse,  who  is  indebted  to 
the  king  in  no  .small  sums  of  money  and  is  pursuing  divers  picas  and 
businesses  in  divers  courts  within  the  realm  against  certain  of  his  debtors 
that  he  may  the  sooner  pjiy  his  debts  to  the  king,  and  his  men,  servants, 
snips,  goods  and  merchandise.  By  K. 

Mandate  to  the  escheator  in  tin-  county  of  Lincoln  for  the  restitution  of 
the  temporalities  of  the  abbey  of  Croyland,  of  the  order  of  St.  Benedict,  to 
John  AVysbechc,  monk  of  the  monastery,  whose  election  as  aI)bot  Jolin, 
bishop  of  Lincoln,  has  confirmed  and  whose  fealty  the  king  lias  taken. 

By  p.s. 

The  like  to  the  esclieators  in  the  following  counties  :  — 
Cambridge  and  Huntingdon. 
Northampton. 
Leicester. 
Hertford. 


Writ  de  intendendo  in  pursuance  to  the  tenants. 


206:  CALENDAR  OF  PATENT  ROLLS. 


1470. 

March  26. 
York.  - 


March  27. 
York. 


March  27. 
York. 


April  7. 
Circucester. 


April  4. 
Coveotry. 


April  4. 

Coventry. 


March  31. 
Nottingham. 


April  4. 
Coventry. 

May  1. 
SoutLumptou. 


Membrane  12 — cont. 
Grant,  during  pleasure,  to  Henry  Percy,  knight,  of  the  custody  of  all 
honours,  castles,  lordships,  manors,  lands  and  other  hereditaments  and 
advowsons  and  patronages  late  of  Henry,  last  earl  of  Northumberland,  his 
father,  in  the  counties  of  York,  Cumberland,  Lincoln,  Leicester,  Cambridge 
and  Suffolk,  the  cities  of  London  and  York,  the  county  of  the  city  of  York 
and  the  towns  of  Kyngeston  on  Hull  and  Newcastle  on  Tyne  and  in  the 
king's  hands  by  force  of  an  act  in  Parliament  at  V/estminster,  1  Edward  IV, 
with  power  to  collect  and  retain  all  rents,  debts,  services  and  profits  due 
from  the  above  to  George,  duke  of  Clarence,  and  Richard,  earl  of  Warwick. 

By  K. 

Grant  to  Richard  Cracestre  of  the  office  of  bowberership  {archiferarii) 
of  the  king's  forest  of  Hanby,  co.  York,  during  the  minority  of  Richard 
Nevile,  kinsman  and  heir  of  George  Nevile,  late  lord  Latymere,  with  such 
fees  as  Henry  Rudsteu  had  in  the  same  office.  By  p.s.  [3057.] 

Grant  to  William  Cracestre  of  the  office  of  the  bailliship  of  the  town  of 
Synnyngton,  co.  York,  with  the  custody  of  the  manor,  park  and  outwoods 
of  the  town  during  the  minority  of  Richard  Nevile,  kinsman  and  heir  of 
George  Nevile,  late  lord  Latymere,  with  wages  of  2rf.  daily  from  the  issues 
of  his  lordship  there  and  all  other  profits.  By  p.s.  [3058.] 

Appointment,  during  pleasure,  of  John  Swancote  as  gauger  in  the  port 
of  Bristol  and  ports  and  places  adjacent,  receiving  the  accustomed  fees. 

By  bill  of  the  treasurer. 

Mandate  to  the  escheator  in  the  county  of  Middlesex  for  the  restitution 
of  the  temporalities  of  the  abbey  of  Westminster,  immediately  subject  to 
the  Roman  church,  in  the  diocese  of  London,  void  by  the  death  of  George, 
late  abbot,  to  Thomas  Millyng,  monk  of  the  monastery,  master  in  theology, 
whom  the  pope  has  appointed  abbot  by  bull,  and  who  has  renounced  all 
words  in  the  said  bull  prejudicial  to  the  king  and  his  crown.  By  p.s. 

The  like  to  the  escheators  in  the  following  counties  : — 

Surrey. 

Buckingham. 

Oxford. 

Gloucester. 

Worcester. 

Writ  de  intcndendo  in  pursuance  to  the  tenants. 

Appointment,  during  pleasure,  of  John  Scotte,  knight,  as  lieutenant  of 
the  castle  of  Dover  and  the  Cinque  Ports,  with  the  accustomed  fees,  as  the 
office  of  constable  of  the  castle  and  warden  of  the  ports  is  now  vacant. 

By  K. 

Presentation  of  John  Mouutgomery,  chaplain,  to  the  parish  church  of 
SulyhuU,  in  the  diocese  of  Coventry  and  Lichfield,  void  by  the  death  of 
William  Danyell,  last  parson.  By  p.s. 

Grant  to  William  Bukton  of  the  office  of  the  bailiwick  of  the  lordship  of 
Scampston  during  the  minority  of  Richard  Neville,  kinsman  and  heir  of 
George  Neville,  late  lord  Latyiner,  with  the  accustomed  fees  from  the  issues 
of  the  lordship.  By  p.s. 

The  like  to  William  Blesdale  of  the  office  of  the  bailiwick  of  Thornton 
in  Pykerynglythe  during  the  said  minority. 

Grant  for  life  to  the  king's  kinsman,  Anthony,  earl  Ryvers,  of  200/.  yearly, 
from  the  customs  and  subsidies  in  the  ports  of  Bishop's  Lenn  and  Great 
Jernemuth.  By  K. 

Grant  for  life  to  the  king's  kinsman  John,  earl  of  Worcester,  of  the  office 
of  tronage  and  pcsagc  in  the  port  of  Suthamptou  with  the  houses  per* 


207 


1470. 


Maicli  27. 
York. 


April  27. 
Southamptou, 


Membrane  12 — cont. 

taining  to  the  office  which  Richard,  earl  of  Warwick,  lately  had  in  the  right 
of  Anne  his  wife,  with  all  accustomed  fees  and  profits.  By  p.s. 

Appointineut,  during  pleasure,  of  Robert  Alocte  and  John  Londe  as 
receivers  of  the  manors  of  Bentley,  Arksey  and  Wyghton,  co.  York,  late  of 
Richard  Scrope,  esquire,  and  in  tlie  king's  handi  by  his  forfeiture,  and  the 
manor,  lands,  and  tenements  of  the  lordship  of  Cotingham,  co.  York,  late  of 
Richard,  earl  of  Warwick,  and  in  the  king's  hands  by  his  forfeiture,  receiving 
such  fees  as  may  be  agreed  upon  before  Whitsuntide  next.  By  K. 

Grant  to  William  Hastynges,  lord  of  Hastynges,  the  king's  chamberlain, 
of  the  next  presentation  to  the  parish  church  of  Scrayngham,  in  the 
diocese  of  York.  By  p.s. 


Membrane  11. 


April  6.  Licence  for  Elizabeth  Talbot  and  Margaret  Talbot,  sisters  and  heiresses 
Banlntiy.  of  'I'homas,  late  viscount  Lisle,  to  enter  freely  into  all  ciistles,  lordships, 
manors,  lands,  rents,  reversions,  services,  fees,  views  of  frank-pledge,  courts 
leet,  knights'  fees,  warrens,  parks,  fisheries,  fairs,  markets,  advowsous  and 
other  possessions  in  England,  Wales,  the  marches  of  Wales  and  the  lordship 
of  Ireland  which  should  descend  to  them  by  tli(!  death  of  the  said  Thoma-s 
their  brother,  John  'i'albot,  knight,  late  viscount  Lisle,  their  father,  and 
Joan  his  wife,  Margaret,  late  countess  of  Shrewsbury,  their  grandmother, 
Richard,  earl  of  Warwick,  her  fatiier  and  Elizabeth  his  wife  or  any  of  them. 

By  K.  by  word  of  mouth. 

June  1.  Licence  for  Richard  Hastynges,  esquire,  and  .Joan  his  wife,  daughter  and 
Westuuustcr.  heiress  of  Richard  Welles,  knight,  late  lord  Welles  and  Wyllughby,  tenant 
in  chief,  and  sister  and  heiress  of  Robert  Welles,  knight,  son  of  the  latter, 
tenant  in  chief,  to  enter  freely  in  her  right  into  all  castles,  lordships,  lands, 
rents,  reversions,  services,  fees,  fee-farms,  views  of  frank-pledge,  courts 
leet,  knights'  fees,  warrens,  park.s,  fisheries,  fairs,  markets,  advow.sons  and 
other  possessions  late  of  Robert  Willoughby,  knight,  late  lord  Willoughby, 
and  Joan  his  daughter,  which  on  the  death  of  the  said  Richard  Welles  and 
Robert  Welles  should  descend  to  her.  By  i).8. 

May  7.  Grant  to  Godfrey  Hello,  born  in  the  province  of  Luke  in  Almain,  of 
Southauiptou.  letters  of  denisation.  By  p.s.  and  for  Vis.  \d.  paid  in  the  lianaper. 


Membrane  10. 

April  25.       Grant  to  the  king's  kinsman  John,  carl  of  Wiltshire,  and  Walter  Blount 
Salisbury.     of  Mountjoyc,  knight,  of  full  power  to  receive  into  the  king's  grace  and 
l)romise  pardon  to  any  i)ersons  who  have  made  forfeiture  to  the  royal  power 
and  are  willing  to  submit  before  7  INIay  next.    \_Fa'deru.~\  By  K. 

Ai)ril  ?>0.       Grant  for  life  to  the  king's  kinsman  .John  carl  of  Worcester,  constable 
Suuihauipton.  of  England,  of  the  oihce  of  one  of  the  chamberlains  of  the  exchequer,  which 
Richard,  earl  of  Warwick,  and  Anne  his  wife  lately  had  in  her  right,  with 
the  accustomed  fees.  ]iy  p.g. 

April  17.  Grant  to  Nicholas  Leventhorpe,  one  of  the  yeomen  of  the  king's  chamber,  of 
Exctcr.  the  office  of  receiver  of  all  lordships,  manors,  lands,  rents,  services  and  otlicr 
possessions  in  the  county  of  York  and  other  counties  within  the  realm  of 
England  lute  of  George  Neville,  knight,  lord  Latymer,  deceased,  tenant  in 
chief,  during  the  minority  of  Richard  his  kinsman  and  heir,  viz.  son  of  his 
sou  Henry,  receiving  the  accustomed  fees  from  the  issues  of  the  same. 

By  P.S 


208 


CALENDAR  OF  PATENT  ROLLS. 


1470.  Membrane  10 — cotit. 

May  1.  Grant  for  life  to  John  Porter  of  an  annuity  of  201.  from  the  issues  of  the 
Southampton.  lordship  and  lands  of  Cristchirclie,  co.  Southampton.  By  p.s. 

The  like  to  .John  Eawlyn  of  an  annuity  of  lOO*.  By  p  s. 

The  like  to  Robert  of  Grave  of  an  annuity  of  100^.  By  p.s. 

The  like  to  Clement  Hille  of  an  annuity  of  lOO^.  By  p.s. 

The  like  to  John  Skynner  of  an  annuity  of  100s.  By  p.s. 

Gi-ant  for  life  to  Giles  Curtays  of  an  annuity  of  10  marks  from  the  issues 
of  the  lordships  of  Canford  and  Pole.  By  p.s. 

Tlie  like  to  Ralph  Crysale  alias  Castelion  of  an  annuity  of  10  marks. 

By  p.s. 

Tlie  like  to  Walter  Light  of  an  annuity  of  10  marks.  By  p.s. 

The  like  to  William  Combe  of  an  annuity  of  10^.  By  p.s. 

The  like  to  Nicholas  Blowe  of  an  annuity  of  10  marks.  By  p.s. 

The  like  to  Thomas  More  of  an  annuity  of  10  marks.  By  p.s. 

The  like  to  Simon  I/aweles  of  an  annuity  of  5  marks.  By  p.s. 

The  like  to  Robert  Morice  of  an  annuity  of  5  marks.  By  p.s. 

April  16.  Pardon  to  Thomas  Flemmyng,  escjuire,  late  eschealor  in  the  counties 
Exeter.  of  Surrey  and  Sussex,  of  all  offences  committed  by  him  and  all  fines,  issues, 
debts,  accounts  and  arrears  due  to  tlie  king  ;  because  owing  to  the  rebellions 
and  insurrections  in  divers  parts  of  England  he  dared  not  duly  execute  his 
office  and  not  only  lost  the  profits  pertaining  to  himself  but  could  not  levy 
the  issues  which  should  accrue  to  tlie  king,  and  nevertheless  paid  10  marks 
for  his  proffer  on  the  morrow  of  the  Close  of  Easter,  9  Edward  IV.  at  the 
receipt  of  the  Exchequer,  and  because  of  his  expenses  in  attending 
personally  on  the  king  in  the  nortli  and  elsewhere.  By  p.s. 

May  .5.         Appointment,  until  6  November  next,  of  Christopher  Furueys,  servant  of 
Southampto7i   tli«  carriage  of  the  household,  to  take  horses  and  carriage  for  the  stuff  of 
the  household.  By  K.  by  word  of  mouth, 

May  G.  General  [jardon  to  Reginald  Stourtou,  knight,  of  all  offences  committed 
Southamptou.  by  him  before  1  May.  By  K. 

The  like  to  Master  John  Derman,  chaplain,  By  K. 

The  like  to  Master  George  Hardgyll,  chaphiin.  By  Iv. 

The  like  to  Richard  Seintgeorgc,  esquire.  By  K. 

The  like  to  John  Pury,  esquire.  By  K. 

The  like  to  John  Leventhorpe,  esquire.  liy  K. 

Tlic  like  to  John  Penue,  esquire.  By  Iv. 

The  like  to  Roger  Draycott,  esquire.  By  K. 

The  like  to  .John  Brokman,  escjuire.  By  K. 

The  like  to  John  Rysshe,  '  gentihnan.'  By  K. 

The  like  to  John  Notte,  '  gentilman.'  By  K. 

The  like  to  William  Molyneux,  '  gentihnan.'  By  K. 

The  like  to  John  Eyerby,  '  yoman.'  By  K. 

May  5.         Pardon  to  John  Hudleston  of  JMyllum,  co.  Cumberland,  knight,  late 
Southampton,  sheriff  of  Cumberland,  of  all  offences  committed  by  him  before  3  May  and 
all  fines,  issues,  debts,  accounts  and  arrears  due  to  the  king.  By  p.s. 

Mav  fi.  Pardon  to  John  R.oger,  late  sheriff  of  the  county  of  Southampton,  of  all 
Southamptou.  escapes  of  felons  and  all  fines,  debts,  accounts  and  arrears  due  to  the  king. 

By  p.s. 


10  EDWARD  IV. 


209 


1470.  MembrnHc  10 — cont. 

May  6.  Grant,  for  life  to  David  White  of  the  town  of  Southampton  of  an  annuity 
Southampton,  of  10  marks  from  the  issues  of  the  lordship  of  Cristchirchc.  By  p.s. 

May  7.  Appointment,  during  pleasure,  of  William  Parre,  knight,  as  lieutenant 
Southampton,  of  the  castle  of  the  city  of  Carlisle  and  the  west  marches  towards  Scotland. 

ByK. 


Membrane  9. 


May  1. 

Southampton, 

May  9. 
Salisbury. 

May  10. 
Salisbury. 


May  25. 

Westminster. 

May  28. 

Westminster. 

May  27. 
Westminster. 


May  19. 

Westminster. 


General  pardon  to  Thomas  Litley  alias  Litteley  a/j'as  Lytiey  alias  Lytte- 
ley  alias-  Lyttelce  late  of  Loudon, '  grocer,'  alias  '  marchaunt,'  of  all  ofiFences 
committed  l)y  him  before  29  April.  By  p.s. 

Grant  for  life  to  Richard  Asshe,  merchant  of  the  town  of  Suthampton, 
of  an  annuity  of  20/.  from  the  issues  of  the  lordship  of  Ryngwode.    By  p.s. 

Grant  for  life  to  the  king's  kinsman  William,  earl  of  Arundel,  of  the 
office  of  constable  of  the  king's  castle  of  Dover  and  warden  of  the  Cinque 
Ports,  receiving  the  accustomed  fees.  By  K. 

General  pardon  to  John,  lord  Scrope  of  Boltou,  knight,  of  all  offences 
committed  by  him  before  17  May  last.  By  p.s. 

The  like  to  Geoffrey  Gale,  knight,  of  all  offences  committed  by  him 
before  23  May.  By  p.s. 

Pardon  to  Fulk  Bourghchiere,  esquire,  son  and  heir  of  William  Bourgh- 
chier,  late  lord  FitzWaryn,  knight,  of  all  intrusions  and  entries  into  his 
inheritance  or  any  parcel  thereof  on  tiie  death  of  his  father  or  any  ancestor 
of  his  without  due  suit  and  all  offences  committed  l)y  him  in  this  part,  and 
grant  to  him  of  all  issues  of  the  same  from  the  death  of  the  .said  William. 

By  p.s. 

Grant  to  the  king's  kinsman  Thomas,  cardinal  archbishop  of  Canterbury, 
and  his  assigns  of  the  custody  during  minority  of  Richaid,  kinsman  and 
heir  of  George  Neville,  knight,  late  lord  of  Latymcr,  deceased,  tenant  in 
chief,  viz.  son  of  Henry  Neville,  knight,  deceased,  son  of  tiie  said  George, 
and  his  marriage  without  disparagement  and  100/.  yearly  for  his  sustenance 
from  the  issues  of  his  castles,  lor(lshii)s,  manors,  lands,  rents,  services  and 
other  hereditaments,  and  so  from  heir  to  heir.  By  [).s. 

Vacated  by  .iitrrcudtr  and  cancelled,  because  the  king  fjranted  the 
custody  and  marriage  to  him  by  ether  letters  patent  on  10  December, 
11  Edicard  IV. 

General  pardon  to  Richard  Brakynburgh  of  Strode,  co.  Kent,  clerk,  alias 
master  of  the  hospital  of  St.  Mary,  Strode,  co.  Kent,  alias  jwrson  of  the 
parish  church  of  Sutton  in  Ardern,  co.  A\'arwick,  of  all  offences  committed 
by  him  before      May  last.  Hy  p.s. 

Grant,  during  pleasure,  to  Antlion)'  Grey,  knight,  of  100  marks  yearly 
from  Michaelmns  l«.'^t,  viz.  50  marks  from  the  customs  and  subsidies  in 
the  ports  of  Exeter  and  Dertemouth  and  ports  and  places  adjacent  and 
60  marks  from  the  customs  and  subsidies  in  the  ports  of  Plymmouth  and 
Fowy  and  ports  and  i)laecs  adjacent.  By  p.s. 

Licence  for  William  Marshall  of  Neuton  and  Richard  Clarell,  executors 
of  the  will  of  Thomas  Clarell,  late  vicar  of  the  church  of  Lcdes  by  Rothc- 
well,  CO.  York,  to  found  a  perpetual  chantry  of  one  cha[)lain  to  celebrate 
divine  service  daily  at  the  nltar  of  St.  Katharine  in  the  ^aid  elnucli  lor  the 
good  estate  of  the  king  and  his  tonsort  Elizabeth,  (lucen  ot  England,  and 
the  said  Willi;ini  and  Richard  and  for  their  souls  after  death,  and  the  souls 
of  the  said  Thomas  and  his  parents  and  all  for  whom  he  was  bound  to 
pray,  to  be  called  the  chantry  of  Thomas  Clarell ;  and  for  the  chaplains  of 

y  96186.  0 


June  1 . 
Westminster. 


June  3. 
Westminster. 


June  13. 
Westminster. 


210 


CALENDAR  OF  PATENT  ROLLS. 


\4J(),  Membrane  9 — cont. 

the  chautry  to  acquire  ia  frank  almoin  lauds,  rents  and  aunuties,  not  held  in 
chief,  to  the  value  of  7  marks  yearly. 

By  p.s.  and  for  20  marks  paid  in  the  hanaper. 


March  7. 
Wall  ham. 
(  Walton 
Abbatis.) 

April  11. 
Wells. 


April  26. 
Salisbury. 

May  25. 
Westminster. 


May  24. 
Westminster. 


June  2. 
Westminster. 

June  1 1. 
Westminster. 


June  12. 
^^'estmin^^ter. 


May.  5. 

Westminster. 

.June  15. 
Westmnister. 


May  10. 

AVesl  minster. 

Juno  27. 
Westminster. 


Membrane  8. 

Pardon  to  the  king's  servitor  Nicholas  Gayncsford,  esquire,  late  sheriff  of 
Surrey  and  Sussex,  of  all  offences  committed  by  hira,  all  escapes  of  felons 
and  all  fines,  issues,  debts,  accounts  and  arrears  due  to  the  king.       By  K. 

Grant  to  the  king's  chaplain  Master  Benedict  Burgh  of  the  prebend  of 
Walton  in  the  king's  chapel  of  St.  Mary  Magdalen  within  the  castle  of 
Briggeuorth,  void  by  the  death  of  Master  Walter  Peytewyn,  last  prebendary. 

By  K. 

Mandate  in  pursuance  to  the  deau  and  chapter. 

General  pardon  to  the  king's  kinsman  John,  earl  of  Shrewsbury,  of  all 
offences  committed  by  him  before  24  April.  By  p.s. 

Revocation  of  the  protection  with  clause  vohimus,  for  one  year,  lately 
granted  by  letters  patent  to  William  Balam  late  of  Wcstbury,  co.  South- 
ampton, '  husbondman,'  alias  of  Bisshoppes  Welde,  co.  Southampton, 
staying  on  the  king's  service  in  the  company  of  Richard,  late  earl  of 
Warwick  and  Salisbury,  then  captain  of  the  town  and  castle  of  Calais,  on 
the  safe-custody,  defence  and  victualling  of  the  same  and  the  marches  there, 
because  he  delays  at  London,  as  appears  by  certificate  of  the  sheriffs. 

General  pardon  to  John  Tapton,  rector  of  the  parish  church  of  Bryng- 
hurste,  co.  Leicester,  of  all  offences  committed  by  him'before  19  May. 

By  p.s. 

The  like  to  William  Bothe,  son  of  Richard  Bothe,  of  all  offences  com- 
mitted by  him  before  8  May.  By  p.s. 

Appointment  for  life  of  the  king's  servant  Richard  Aprice  as  one  of  the 
yeomen  of  the  crown,  and  grant  to  him  of  6d.  daily  for  his  fee  from  the 
issues  of  two  messuages  situated  by  the  hithe  called  '  le  Towrewharff  '  by 
the  city  of  London  and  a  messuage  on  the  wharf  of  the  Tower  in  which 
John  Elj  ngham,  deceased,  lately  dwelt  and  a  garden  adjacent  and  all  other 
messuages  gituated  on  the  said  wharf  and  gardens  and  vacant  plots  of  land 
on  cither  side  of  the  way  leading  between  the  gate  at  the  east  end  of  the 
said  wharf  and  the  bridge  beyond  '  le  Flodgate  '  of  the  wharf.  By  p.s. 

Grant  for  life  to  the  king's  servitor  Nicholas  liarbour  alias  Smyth  of  an 
annuity  of  10/.  from  the  customs,  subsidies,  profits  and  issues  in  the  port 
of  Lastichiall,  co.  Cornwall.  By  p.s. 

General  pardon  to  Jevan  Vaghan  ap  Jevan  ap  Jolly n  ap  David  of 
Rudorddwy,  co.  Flint,  '  gentilman.'  By  p.s. 

Grant  for  life  to  the  king's  servitor  John  Barkeley  of  an  annuity  of 
10  marks  from  the  customs,  subsidici,  profits  aud  issues  in  the  port  of 
Lastithiall,  co.  Cornwall.  By  p.s. 

Presentation  of  John  Colvile,  chaplain,  to  the  parish  church  of  St.  Thomas 
Martyr,  Wynchelse,  in  the  diocese  of  Chichester. 

Grant  for  life  to  the  king's  servitor  William  Logge  of  ihe  office  of  porter 
of  the  king's  castle  of  Wallyngford,  co.  Berks,  with  fees  as  in  the  times  of 
Edward  111.  antl  Richard  11.  fioni  the  issues  of  the  castle,  lordship  and 
manor  of  Wallyngford  ;  in  lieu  of  a  like  grant  to  Thomas  Nesse  by  letters 
patent  dated  1 3  March,  9  Edward  IV,  surrendei-ed.  By  p.e. 


10  EDWAED  IV. 


211 


1470. 

June  14. 
Westminster. 

.Tune  2. 

AVestmiuster. 

June  1. 
Westminster. 

June  22. 

Wcstiniuster. 


July  2. 
Westmiuster, 


July  3. 
Westminster. 


June  30. 
Westmiuster. 

July  10. 
Westmiuster. 


July  20. 
Wcstuiiiisler. 


July  18. 
Wcslmiustcr. 


Membrane  7. 

Appointment,  during  good  behaviour,  of  John  lugoldesby  as  one  of  the 
barons  of  the  Exchequer  in  the  place  of  Ralph  Wolseley,  receiving  the 
accu.stomed  fees,  vesture  and  profits.  By  p.s. 

General  pardon  to  Thomas  Stanley,  lord  Stanley,  knight,  of  all  offences 
committed  by  him  before  1 1  May  last.  By  p.s. 

The  like  to  John  Farley  alias  John  Mille  of  the  town  of  Gloucestre, 
'  yoman,'  of  all  offences  committed  by  him  before  23  May  last.         By  p.s. 

Appointment  of  John  Blount,  esquire,  as  lieutenant  of  the  king's  castle 
of  ilanq)nes  in  the  parts  of  J^icardy  for  twenty  years  from  G  April  last,  with 
a  number  of  soldiei  s  under  him  specified  in  certain  indentures  made  between 
the  king  and  himself,  receiving  for  himself  and  these  soldiers  at  the  hands 
of  the  treasurer  of  Calais  such  wages  as  are  specified  in  the  said  indentures 
with  all  accustomed  profits,  with  power  to  appoint  nucli  officers  as  may  be 
recjuired  lor  tlie  safo-tustody  of  tlic  castle  and  to  grant  safe-conduct  to  the 
king's  adversaries  coming  to  the  castle  for  the  victualling  of  the  same  or  the 
deliverance  of  prisoners.  By  p.s. 

Grant  for  life  to  William  Hobbys,  principal  surgeon  of  the  body,  of 
40  marks  yearly  from  Cliristmas  last,  viz.  16/.  2s.  3d.  from  minute  particles 
of  serjeanty  in  the  counties  of  Bedford  and  Buckingham  and  10/.  ll*.  Id. 
from  the  issues  of  those  counties.  By  p.s. 

Pardon  to  John  Appylby,  '  gentilnian,'  lately  appointed  to  collect  all 
farms,  debts  and  other  tilings  due  to  the  king  in  the  county  of  Cumberland 
from  Michaelmas,  7  Edwarcl  IV,  until  Michaelmas  following  and  contained 
iu  the  summons  of  the  Exche(jucr  annexe<l  to  a  commission  under  the  seal  < 
of  the  Exchequer  dated  3  November,  8  Edward  IV,  directed  to  him,  of  all 
offences  committed  by  him  before  18  June  last  and  all  fines,  issues,  debts, 
accounts  and  arrears  duo  to  the  king.  By  p.s. 

Pardon  to  William  Tyrcll  the  younger,  knight,  and  Eleanor  late  the 
wife  of  John  White,  tenant  iu  chief,  of  their  trespass  iu  intermarrying 
without  licence.  By  p.s. 

Appointment,  during  plea.sure,  of  the  king's  kinsman  John,  earl  of 
Worcester,  as  treasurer  of  the  Exchequer,  receiving  the  accustomed  fees. 

By  K. 

Mandate  in  pursuance  to  the  barons  of  the  Exchequer  and  the  chamber- 
lain.s. 

Mandate  in  pursuance  to  William,  bishop  of  Ely. 

Grant  lo  John  Newborough  and  W^illiam  Martyn  of  100  m.nrks  yearly 
from  Easter  last  from  the  manors  and  lordships  of  Batheiieston,  Shokerwyke, 
Somerton  Earl  {coiiiitis),  Sonierton  Kandolf  and  Kyngesdon,  co.  Somerjet, 
late  of  James,  late  carl  of  Wiltshire,  and  jiarcel  of  I  ho  jointure  of  Eleanor 
his  wife,  to  hold  for  her  life  for  her  use  and  sustenance  in  rccompcnce  of  iicr 
jointure.  By  p.s. 

Whereas  by  an  inquisition  taken  at  Worcester  on  9  October,  1  Edward 
IV.  before  Jolni  Bugge,  then  cscheator  in  the  county,  it  was  found 
that  Eichard  ISeaufo  was  .«cised  in  his  demesne  as  of  fee  of  an  acre  of  land 
in  Hille  Crombc,  held  in  chief  by  the  service  of  the  tweulictii  part  of  a 
knight's  fee,  and  died  on  Saturday  after  Christmas,  39  Ileiiiy  VI.  and 
Humphrey  Beaufo  his  sou  was  his  heir  and  was  at  that  time  three  years 
old  so  that  his  custody  and  niai'riage  pcrlained  to  the  king,  but  the  king 
understands  that  Ihc  yd'id  liichard  did  not  hold  the  .said  acre  or  any  laud 
in  chief  and  the  custody  and  marriage  of  the  said  Humphrey  .should  belong 
to  the  king's  kinsmen  Tiiomas,  cardinal  arclibishop  of  (,'aiiterbury,  and 
Anne,  duchess  of  Buckingham,  the  king  hereby  giants  to  them  the  custody 
of  the  said  heir  with  his  marriage  without  disparagement.  By  p.s. 

0  2 


212 


CALENDAR  OF  PATENT  ROLLS. 


1470.  Membrane  6. 

July  23.        General  pardon  to  George  Longuevile  of  Wolvertou,  co.  Buckingham, 
Westminster,  esquire,  alias  of  London,  of  all  offences  committed  by  him  before  18  July. 

By  p.s. 

Aug.  1.         The  like  to  Henry  Fremyngham  of  Heugham,  co.  Norfolk,  '  gentilman,' 
Westminster,  of  all  offences  committed  by  him  before  23  July  last.  By  p.s. 

July  28.        Grant  for  life  to  Walter  Devreulx,  lord  Ferrers  of  Charteley,  of  the 
Westminster.  ofRces  of  the  '  shirrfship  '  of  the  county  of  Caernarvan  and  '  maisterforster- 
ship  '  of  Snowedenhilles  within  the  county  of  North  Wales,  void  by  the  death 
of  William,  late  earl  of  Pembroke,  with  the  accustomed  fees. 

By  p.s.  [3125.] 

Aug.  1.  Grant  to  William  Taillour,  citizen  and  alderman  of  London,  in  lieu  of 
Westminster,  a  like  grant  to  him  by  letters  patent  dated  17  November  last,  surrendered, 
that  he  or  his  executors  or  administrators  after  his  decease  or  their  factors 
or  attorneys  may  ship  sacks  and  bales  of  wool,  woollen  cloths,  pieces  of 
tin  called  '  bloktyn  '  and  pieces  of  lead  called  '  sowes  of  lede  '  in  the  ports 
of  London,  Sandwich  and  Suthampton  and  take  the  wools  by  the  straits  of 
Marrok  and  the  woollen  cloths,  tin  and  lead  to  any  foreign  parts  quit  of 
customs  and  subsidies  to  the  sum  of  1,200/.  By  p.s. 

Aug.  13.        General  pardon  to  Thomas  Robynson  alias  Robertson  late  of  London, 
Westminster,  'yoman,'  of  all  offences  committed  by  him  before  5  August.  By  p.s. 

Sept.  12.       Presentation  of  John  Thwaytes,  chaplain,  to  the  vicarage  of  the  parish 
Westminster,  church  of  Great  Wycombe,  in  the  diocese  of  Lincoln,  void  by  the  death  of 
Robert  Wareyn,  last   vicar,  and  in  the   king's  gift  by  reason  of  the 
•  temporalities  of  the  monastery  of  Godstowe  being  in  his  hands. 

Membrane  5. 

Aug.  23.       Licence  for  the  prioress  and  convent  of  the  monastery  of  St.  John 
Westminster.  Baptist,  Goddestowe,  in  the  diocese  of  Lincoln,  to  elect  an  abbess  in  the 
place  of  Alice  Henley,  deceased. 

Aug.  24.       Presentation  of  John  Stubbes  to  the  prebend  of  Cutton,  in  the  diocese 
Westminster,  of  Exeter,  void  by  the  death  of  Thomas  Copleston,  last  i>rebendary.  By  p.s. 

Aug.  25.        General  pardon  to  William  Cawode  alias  Kaywode  late  of  Boston, 
Westminster,  merchant,  merchant  of  the  staple  of  Calais,  of  all  offences  committed  by  him 


before  16  August.  By  p.s. 

The  like  to  the  follov/ing  merchants  of  the  staple  of  Calais  : — 

William  Glynton  of  Peterburgh,  merchant.  By  p.s. 

Thomas  Gilbert  of  Harburgh,  merchant.  By  p.s-. 

John  a  Wode  of  Melton  Moubray,  merchant.  By  p.s. 

John  Croke  of  London,  merchant.  By  p.s. 

John  Haryngton,  merchant.  By  p.s. 

John  Reynold  of  Leyccstre,  merchant.  By  p.s. 

Thomas  Burton  of  Loughtburgh,  merchant.  By  p.s. 

Thomas  Adam  of  Langham,  merchant.  By  p.s. 

Philip  Hardebene  of  London,  merchant.  By  p.s. 

Thomas  Wygeston  of  Leycestre,  merchant.  By  p.s. 

William  Trafford  of  Wokeham,  merchant.  By  p.s. 

John  Lemyngton  of  Leycestre,  merchant.  By  p.s. 

Robert  Tate  of  London,  merchant.  By  p.s. 

John  Saundres  of  London,  merchant.  By  p.s 


10  EDWARD  IV. 


213 


X470.  Membrane  5 — cont. 

John  Tate  of  London,  merchant.  Bj  p.s. 

Roger  Wyggeston  of  Leycestre,  merchant.  By  p.s. 

John  Kyrton  of  Wokeham,  merchant.  By  p.s. 

Richard  Salesbury  of  Broke.  By  p.s. 

Thomas  Dymmok  of  Hornecastell,  merchant.  By  p.s. 

William  Brearly  of  Calais,  merchant.  By  p.s. 

William  Wareyn  of  Wokeham,  merchant.  By  p.s. 

William  Broun  of  Staunford,  merchant.  By  p.s. 

John  Lynde  of  Boston,  merchant.  By  p.s. 

John  Broun  of  Staunford,  merchant.  By  p.s. 

William  Rose  late  of  Wokeham,  merchant.  By  p.s. 

William  Colome  of  Staunford,  merchant.  By  p.s. 

Richard  Helperby  of  Calais,  merchant.  By  p.s. 

Aug.  .30.       Presentation  of  Richard  Trotman,  chaplain,  to  the  pari.sh  church  of 
Westniiustcr.  Bladou,  in  the  dPocesc  of  Lincoln,  void  by  the  death  of  Philip  INIorgan,  last 
parson. 

Aug.  30.        Presentation  of  Richard  Wodeward  to  the  parish  church  of  Teyngton 
Westminster.  Drue,  in  the  diocese  of  Exeter,  void  by  the  death  of  Thomas  Copleston,  last 
parson. 

Sept.  10.  Grant  to  Anthony  Justiniano  and  Jerome  Canterin,  merchants  of  Venice, 
Westminster,  in  repayment  of  tlie  sum  of  200/.  due  to  them  from  the  king,  as  appears  in 
the  receipt  of  the  E.\chequei",  that  they  or  their  executors  after  their 
decease  or  their  factors  or  attorneys  may  siiip  sacks  and  bales  of  wool, 
woollen  cloths,  pieces  of  tin  and  fodders  of  lead  in  the  ports  of  London, 
Sandwich  and  Southampton  and  take  the  wools  by  the  straits  of  Marruk 
and  the  woollen  clotiis,  tin  ami  loiul  to  any  foreign  parts  and  l)ring  back 
other  merchandise  of  any  growth  from  foreign  parts  to  the  said  ports  quit 
of  customs  and  subsidies  until  they  shall  thus  be  satisfied  ol  the  said  sum  of 
200/.  By  p.s. 

Membrane  4. 

June  22.  Exemi)lification,  at  the  request  of  Robert  Achier,  of  the  tenour  of  the 
Westmiuster.  enrolment  of  letters  patent  dated  12  February,  9  Edward  IV.  granting 
safe-conduct  for  one  year  from  15  February  to  Peter  Morisso,  Guillerin  <lu 
Gerdin,  John  le  Forester  and  Vincent  le  Noble,  merchants  of  France, 
coming  to  England  or  other  places  subject  to  the  king  with  a  ship  called 
la  Marie  of  the  portage  of  45  tuns,  of  which  Guillerin  Gualt,  William  de 
la  Place,  Roger  Fontcrell,  Robert  Achier  or  .John  le  Gruo  is  master,  laden 
with  divers  goods  and  merchandise  and  the  saitl  master  and  16  mariners 
and  two  pages,  at  the  supplication  of  Robert  IMorisse,  prisoner  in  France, 
for  the  quicker  repayment  of  his  ransom  and  the  delivery  of  his  wife  and 
Morisse  his  brother,  liis  hostages  in  the  hands  of  the  king's  adversaries. 
These  letters  have  been  casually  lost,  as  Robert  Achier  has  taken  oath  in 
Chancery,  and  will  be  surrendered  if  found.  [^French  Boll,  9  Edward  IV. 
m.  10.] 

.luly  1.        Protection    with  clause  rolumtis,    for   one   year,   for   John  Pounte, 
Westminster.  '  portyngalcr,'  going  to  Ireland  on  the  king's  service  in  the  company  of  the 
king's  kinsman  John,  earl  of  Worcester,  lieutenant  of  Ireland,  on  the  safe- 
custody,  defence  and  victualling  of  that  land. 
The  like  for  John  de  Pounte,  '  portyngaler.' 
The  Uke  for  John  Piers,  '  portyngaler.' 


214 


CALENDAR  OF  PATENT  ROLLS. 


1470. 

June  27. 
Westmiuster. 

July  2. 
Westminster. 


Sept.  10. 
Westminster. 


Membrane  4 — cont. 

Grant  to  Thomas  Howbrake  of  the  town  of  Calais,  *  merchant,'  and  the 
heirs  of  liis  body  of  letters  of  denization.  By  p.s. 

Protection  with  clause  volumus,  tor  one  year,  for  Hugh  Haute  of  the 
parish  of  St.  Margaret,  Briggestrete,  London,  going  to  Ireland  on  the 
king's  service  in  the  company  of  the  king's  kinsman  John,  earl  of  Worcester, 
lieutenant  of  Ireland,  on  the  safe-custody,  defence  and  victualling  of  that 
land.  By  p.s. 

Membrane  3. 

General  pardon  to  Richard  Salkeld  late  of  Corkby,  co.  Cumberland, 
esquire,  late  constable  of  the  king's  castle  of  Carlisle,  William  Salkeld  late 
of  Wigton,  CO.  Cumberland,  'jentilman,' Nicholas  Skelton  late  of  Qwitbrigge, 
CO.  Cumberland,  'jentilman,'  Clement  Skelton  the  elder  late  of  Aynthorne, 
CO.  Cumberland,  '  jentilman,'  Edward  Skelton  late  of  Carlile,  co. 
Cumberland,  'jentilman,'  John  Bower  late  of  Carlile,  'jentilman,'  alias 
John  Bowar,  steward,  Thomas  Aglionby  of  the  same,  'jentilman,'  Nicholas 
Aglionby  of  the  same,  'jentilman,'  Thomas  Stanwikkes  of  the  same, 
'jentilman,'  Alexander  Appilby  of  the  same,  'jentilman,'  William  Vaux 
of  the  same,  '  jentilman,'  John  Symson  of  the  same,  '  jentilman,' Henry 
Donton  of  the  same,  'jentilman,'  Thomas  Salkeld  of  the  same,  'jentilman,' 
John  Salkeld  of  the  same,  'jentilman,'  Henry  Kelyngworth  of  the  same, 
•jentilman,' Hugh  Loncastre  of  the  same,  'jentilman,'  Alexander  Bennet 
of  the  same,  'jentilman,'  William  Salkeld  of  the  same,  'jentilman,'  Thomas 
Nicholson  of  the  same,  '  yoman,'  Thomas  Calvard  of  the  same,  '  yoman,' 
Hugh  Hudson  of  the  same,  'yoman,'  Alexander  Lambe  of  the  same, 
'  yoman,'  John  Thomson  of  the  same,  '  yoman,'  Thomas  Hlake  of  the  same, 
' yoman,' Paton  Eddryngton  of  the  same,  'yoman,'  Edward  Nicolson  of 
the  same,  '  yoman,'  Henry  Crakall  of  the  same,  *  yoman,'  John  Lamble 
of  the  same,  '  yoman,'  John  Grame  of  the  same,  '  yoman,'  William 
Gillesland  of  the  same,  'yoman,'  William  Brownfeld  of  the  same,  'yoman,' 
Richard  Tayser  of  the  same,  '  yoman,'  Richard  Robson  of  the  same, 
'  yoman,'  Robert  James  of  the  .same,  '  yoman,'  Robert  Fyschare  of  the 

of  the  same,  '  yoman,'  William  Daa  of 
of  the  same,  'yoman,'  Richard  Ferrour 
Johnson  of  the  same,  '  yoman,'  John 
Richard  Hunter  of  the  same,  'yoman,' 
yoman,'  John  Robynson  of  the  same, 
'  yoman,'  John  Jaksou  of  the  same,  'yomau,'  William  Wright  of  the  same, 
'  yoman,'  John  Bullok  of  the  same,  '  yoman,'  Joiin  ScuUok  of  the 
same,  '  yoman,'  John  Symson  the  little  of  the  same,  'yoman,'  Thomas 
Raylton  of  the  same,  '  yomiin,'  Richard  Wilson  of  the  same,  '  yoman,' 
Robert  Leche  of  the  same,  '  yoman,'  William  Lynge  of  the  same,  '  yoman,' 
Robert  Stele  of  the  same,  'yoman,'  Roland  Sharpharowe  of  the  same, 
'yoman,' Thomas  Newynscn  of  the  same,  'yoman,'  Edmund  Legh  of  the 
same,  '  yoman,'  Richard  Ricardby  of  the  same,  '  yoman,'  Thomas  Bell  of 
the  same,  'jouian,'  Milse  Swyuburn  of  the  same,  'yoman,'  Thomas  Gramc 
the  elder  late  of  Kellowe,  co.  Cumberland,  'yoman,'  Thomas  Grame  his 
son,  'yoman,'  John  Robinson  alias  Preystman  of  Hughterby,  co.  Cumber- 
land, '  yoman,'  Thomas  James  of  Stanwikkes,  co.  Cumberland,  'yoman,' 
John  Makciayn  of  the  same  county,  '  yoman,'  Robert  Hogeson  of 
Kirkbamplon,  co.  Cumberland,  'yoman,'  John  Elwalde  late  of  Tredirmayn, 
CO.  Cumberland,  '  yoman,'  Richard  Fedirstaynhagh  of  Fcdirstaynhagh,  co. 
Northumberland,  Adam  Eddryngton  of  Newby,  in  the  same  county  {sic), 
'  yoman,'  William  Rechardson  of  the  same  county,  '  yoman,'  John  de 
Crosby  in  the  same  county,  '  yoman,'  John  Grarigge  of  Peureth,  in 
the  same  county,  'yoman,'  Eobert  Stabill  of  the  same  county,  'yoman,i 


same,  '  yoman,'  Laurence  James 
the  same,  'yoman,'  John  Jakson 
of  the  same,  '  yoman,'  William 
Symson  of  the  same,  '  yomam,' 
Richrrd  Palmer  of  tlie  same. 


10  EDWARD  IV. 


215 


1470.  Membrane  3 — cont. 

Richard  Sharpharow  of  Litlle  Crokby,  in  the  same  county,  '  yoman,'  John 
Newynson  of  Lanji()whate,  in  the  same  county,  'yoman,'  Robert  Halle 
late  of  Wavwikkebrig,  in  the  same  county,  'yoman,'  Roger  Newynson 
late  of  the  same,  '  yoman,'  Thomas  Sharpharow  late  of  Nevvby,  '  yoman,' 
Thomas  Eddryngton  of  Moreqwate,  in  the  same  county,  '  yoman,'  William 
Bell  son  of  Matthew  Bell  of  Farlam,  in  the  same  county,  '  yoman,'  and 
Thomas  Watson  alias  Miluer  of  Warwykbrig,  '  yoman,'  of  all  offences 
committed  by  them  before  7  September.  By  p.s. 

The  like  to  William  Musgrave  late  of  Edynhall,  co.  Cumberland,  esquire, 
Joan  Musgrave  of  the  same,  widow,  Nicholas  Musgrai-e  of  the  same, 
'jentilman,'  Gilbert  Stokhall,  Joan  Robyuson,  William  Yong,  Edmund 
Lee,  Richard  Threlkeld,  John  Maltby,  John  Crawliall,  Robert  Mason  of 
the  same,  'yoman,'  Alexander  Appilby  and  John  Longcastre  of  Carlion, 
'  jentilman.'  By  p.s. 

The  like  to  Henry  Fitzhugh  of  Fitzhugh,  knight,  and  Alice  his  wife, 
Francis  Lovell  son  and  heir  of  John  Lovell,  knight,  and  Anne  Lovell  his 
wife,  Richard  Nevile  son  and  heir  of  George  Nevile,  knight,  Ricliaril 
Fitzhugh,  son  of  the  said  Henry  Fitzhugii,  George  Fitzhugh,  Edward 
Fitzhugh,  Thomas  Fitzhugh  and  John  Fitzhugh,  sons  of  the  same  Henry, 
Elizabeth  Fitzhugh,  daughter  of  the  same  Henry,  Joan  Lovell  and 
Frideswide,  sisters  of  the  s^ame  Francis  Lovell,  Katharine  Clerionut  wife 
of  William  Clcrionet,  'jentilman,'  Grace  I'udsiiy  late  of  Ravenswath, 
CO.  York,  Margaret  Murton  late  of  the  same,  Joan  Rol)ynson  wife  of 
John  Robynson,  Joan  Lokwode  late  of  the  same,  Joan  Goldsmyth 
late  of  the  same,  Alice  Bereworth  lale  of  the  .^ame,  Joan  Colyns  wife 
of  William  Colyns,  Elizabeth  Ilanserd  late  of  the  same,  Elizabeth  Appi!i)y 
late  of  the  same,  Joan  Blakburno  wife  of  John  Blakburnc,  John 
Lewlyn,  rector  of  Roinalchirche,  co.  York,  chaplain,  John  Jiasenby  liKe 
of  Ravenswath,  •jentilman,'  Roger  Aske  lale  of  the  same,  'jentilman,' 
Thomas  Frank  late  of  the  same,  '  jentilman,'  William  Rudscy  lale  of  the 
same,  chaplain,  William  'J'ayntercl,  rector  of  Kirkcby,  co.  Y'ork,  chaplain, 
Edward  Pudsay  late  of  Ravenswath,  chaplain,  Alan  Holme  late  of  the 
same,  chaplain,  Joiin  (Julton  hit of  the  same,  chaplain,  Percival  Lyndlcy 
late  of  the  same,  'jentilman,'  Ralph  Brackenbury  late  of  the  same, 
'jentilman,'  William  Clcrionet  late  of  the  same,  'jentilman,'  Edward 
Fr.ank  late  of  the  same,  'jentilman,'  William  Burgh  late  of  the  same, 
'gentilman,'  Thomas  Laton  late  of  the  same, 'jentilman,'  Walter  Salreyn 
late  of  the  same,  '  gcntilman,' John  Bower  late  of  the  same,  '  jentilman,' 
Thomas  Ryley  alias  Otter  late  of  Miildelliara,  co.  York,  'jentilman,' 
Henry  Steper  and  Robert  Clerc  his  servants,  Henry  Conyers  late  of 
Ravenswath,  'jentilman,'  John  Conyers  late  of  the  same,  'jentilman,' 
Nicholas  Laton  late  of  the  .same,  'jentilman,'  Alan  Fulthorpe  late  of  the 
same  'jentilman,'  Ralph  Riciyf  late  of  the  same,  'gcntilman/  Roland 
Pud.say  late  of  the  same,  'jentilman,'  Thomas  Rukeby  hito  of  the  same, 
'jentilman,'  Henry  Rukeby  late  of  the  same,  'gcntilman,'  William  Lokwode 
late  of  the  same,  '  yoman,'  John  Robynson  late  of  the  same,  '  yoman,' 
William  Bower  late  of  the  same,  *  yoman,'  Richard  Pacok  late  of  the 
same,  'yoman,'  James  Pacok  late  of  Ravenswath,  'yoman,'  Lionel 
Metcalf  late  of  the  same,  'yoman,'  Robert  Uillop  late  of  the  same,'  yoman,' 
Robert  Tebot  late  of  the  same,  '  yoman,'  John  Cowlyng  late  of  the  sumc, 
'  yoman,'  Robert  Trotter  late  of  the  ranie,  'yoman,'  William  Rayne  lule  of 
the  .same, 'yoman,' William  Bowliaid<e  late  of  the  same,  'yoman,'  Richard 
Kechon  late  of  the  same,  '  yoman,'  John  Hunter  late  of  the  same,  '  yon\an.' 
John  Myros  late  of  the  .same,  'yoman,'  Robert  Kechon  late  of  the  same, 
'yoman,'  John  Bowswel  late  of  the  same,  ' yoman,'  George  BowswcU 


216 


CALENDAR  OF  PATENT  ROLLS. 


Membrane  3 — cont. 

late  of  the  same,  '  yotnan,'  John  Swan  late  of  the  same,  '  yoman,' 
Chiistopher  Hunter  late  of  the  same,  *  yoman,'  George  Howpe  late  of  the 
same,  *  yoman,'  George  Towke  late  of  the  same,  '  yoman,'  Hugh  Holme 
late  of  the  same,  '  yoman,'  William  Tristram  late  of  the  same,  '  yoman,' 
John  Trystram  late  of  the  same,  '  yoman,'  John  Grey  late  of  the  same, 
'  yoman,'  John  More  late  of  the  same,  '  yoman,'  Robert  Myres  late  of 
the  same,  *  yoman,'  John  Hovvsome  late  of  the  same,  '  yoman,'  John 
Braitthwayte  late  of  the  same,  'yoman,'  John  Stokdale  late  of  the  same, 
'yoman,'  William  Robynson  late  of  the  same,  'yoman,'  John  Thomson 
late  of  the  same  '  yoman,'  William  Kellowe  late  of  the  same,  '  yoman,' 
Thomas  Harper  late  of  the  same, '  yoman,'  William  Mason  late  of  the  same, 
'  yoman,'  William  Mayson  late  of  the  same,  '  yoman,'  Richard  Newton  late 
of  the  same,  '  yoman,'  Thomas  Tesdale  late  of  the  same,  '  yoman,'  Thomas 
Toke  late  of  the  same,  'yoman,'  John  Thorpe  late  of  the  same,  'yoman,' 
Edmund  Garnet  late  of  the  same,  '  yoman,'  George  Metcalf  late  of  the 
same,  '  yoman,'  William  Forser  late  of  the  same,  '  yoman,'  John  Brewode 
late  of  the  same,  '  yoman,'  Hugh  Boste  late  of  the  same,  'yoman,'  Matthew 
Pra(;te  late  of  the  same,  'yoman,'  John  Patenson  late  of  the  same,  'yoman,' 
Walter  Tyrrell  late  of  the  same,  '  yoman,'  Thomas  Hastynges  late  of  the 
same,  'yoman,'  and  John  Holyn  and  William  Brown  late  of  the  same, 
pages.  By  p.s. 


Membrane  2. 


July  20. 
Westminster. 


July  27. 
Westmiuster. 


July  26. 

Westminster. 


Aug.  4. 

Westminster. 

Aug  26. 
Westmiuster. 

Aug.  6. 


Appointment,  during  pleasure,  of  Robert  Radclif  as  controller  of  the 
great  and  petty  custom,  the  subsidy  of  wools,  hides  and  wool-fells  and  the 
subsidy  of  the  35.  in  the  tun  and  the  \2d.  in  the  pound  in  the  port  of 
Yepiswiche  and  ports  and  places  adjacent,  receiving  the  accustome  J  fees, 
provided  that  he  execute  the  otiice  in  person,  with  the  custody  of  one  part 
of  the  coket  seal.  By  bill  of  the  treasurer. 

The  like  of  the  following  in  the  ports  named  and  ports  and  places 
adjacent : — 

Simon  Weltden,  'gentilman,'  in  the  port  of  Newcastle  on  Tyne. 

By  bill  of  the  treasurer. 

Richard  Alfray  in  the  port  of  Chichester.         By  bill  of  the  treasurer. 

Robert  Houchons  i^.  the  port  of  Bruggewater. 

Michael  Denys  in  the  ports  of  Exeter  and  Dertmouth. 

By  bill  of  the  treasurer. 

William  Yogge  in  the  ports  of  Plymmouth  and  Fowey. 

By  bill  of  the  treasurer . 

Henry  Couucell  in  the  port  of  Pole.  By  bill  of  the  treasurer. 


The  like  of  William  Martyn  as  controller  of  the  subsidy  of  the  35.  in  the 
Westminster,  tim  and  the  12c?.  in  the  pound  in  the  port  of  London  and  ports  and  places 
adjacent.  By  bill  of  the  treasurer. 

Aug.  18.  The  like  of  Geoffrey  Kent  as  controller  of  the  great  custom  and  the 
Westminster,  subsidy  of  wools,  hides  and  wool-fells  in  the  same. 

By  bill  of  the  treasurer. 

July  20.        Grant,  during  pleasure,  to  George  Radclif  of  the  office  of  tronage  and 
Westminster,  pesage  in  the  port  of  Boston  and  ports  and  places  adjacent,  receiving  the 
accustomed  fees.  By  bill  of  the  treasurer. 


10  EDWARD  IV. 


217 


14i'J0,  Membrane  1. 

July  28.       General  pardon  to  William  Toiirnay,  late  preceptor  of  Baddesley,  co. 
Westminster.  Southampton,  fellow  of  John  Langstrother,  prior  of  the  Hospital  of  St.  John 
of  Jerusalem  in  England,  alias  William  Tournay,  knight,  bailiff  of  Aquila, 
of  all  offences  committed  by  him  before  1 1  July.  By  p.s. 

Membrane  \5d  and  lid. 
Commissions  of  the  peace  in  various  counties.    [See  Appendix.] 

Membrane  I3d. 

June  22.  Commission  to  the  mayor  and  bailifPs  of  the  town  of  Bishop's  Lenn,  the 
Westminster,  bailiffs  of  tlie  town  of  Scardeburgh  and  John  More,  alias  Windsor  herald,  on 
complaint  by  Vinccnot  le  Noble,  Francis  Dappemout,  Perrenot  Morice, 
William  Gardya,  John  le  Foretier,  Vincent  lo  Noble,  Robert  Acher, 
Perrenot  de  Saint  Morice  and  Jolin  Fransoys,  merchants  of  Depe  in 
Normandy,  that  divers  pirates  in  a  carvel  of  Lenn,  of  which  Robert  flryng 
is  master  and  William  Warldes,  William  Vilmyn  .-ind  John  Tillc  are 
victuallers,  took  them  in  three  ships  of  France  and  despoiled  them  of  the 
said  ships  and  divers  goods  and  merchandise,  contrary  to  the  form  of  letters 
of  safe-conduct  of  the  king,  to  arrest  the  said  Robert  Gryng,  Williiim 
Warldes,  William  Vylmya  and  John  Title  and  bring  them  before  the  king  in 
council  on  24  July  next,  and  to  seize  the  said  ships,  goods  and  merchandise 
and  Mynyu  Enault  de  la  Pappe,  Roger  Fonterell,  .John  Degone,  Nicholas 
Visier,  John  Frcquct,  Ivonnait  le  Sage  and  a  servant  of  the  said  Ivonnait, 
mariners  in  the  said  ships  at  the  time  of  their  capture,  and  keep  them  in 
safe  custody  and  certify  accordingly  to  the  king  in  council. 

May  26.        Mandate  to  all  mayors,  sheriffs,  bailiffs,  constables  and  other  officers  and 
Westminster,  subjects  of  the  king  for  the  restitution  of  63  bales  of  woad  of  R  ipiiael  de 
Vibaliles,  merchant  of  Genoa,  lately  seized  by  certain  pirates  iu  a  ship  of 
Robert  Ros  of  Calais  in  the  river  Thames,  contrary  to  the  form  of  letters  of 
safe-conduct  of  the  king. 

Membrane  I2d. 

March  16.  Commission  to  Fulk  Bouggchier  of  Fitz  Wareyn,  knight,  John  Dynhani 
Newark.  of  Dyaham,  knight,  and  the  sheriff  of  Devon  to  arrest  Hugh  Courtenay, 
knight,  William  Courtenay,  knight,  Pdter  Courtenay,  clerk,  Philip 
Courtenay,  esquire,  Humphrey  Courtenay,  esquire,  Waller  Courtenay, 
esquire,  John  Sachefeld,  .John  Netherton  and  Robert  Sporewey,  and  bring 
them  before  the  king  in  council.  By  K. 

April  3.        The  like  to  the  king's  kinsmen  Henry,  earl  of  Essex,  and  Edmund,  earl 
Coventry.     of  Kent,  William  Bourghchier,  knight,  John  Bourghchier  of  Berners, 
knight,  and  Thomas  Bourghchier,  knight,  to  ai'rest  George,  archbisliop  of 
York,  and  bring  him  before  the  king  or  the  council.  By  K. 

May  2.         Commission  to  Simon  Laweles,  master  of  a  ship  called  le  Marie  of  Rye, 
Southampton,  to  take  mariners  for  the  said  ship,  going  with  others  to  resist  the  king's 
enemies.  By  K.  by  word  of  mouth. 

April  2  ).       Commission  to  John  William,  mayor  of  Suthampton,  William  Overay 
Saliibury.     and  John  Chapman  to  take  ships  in  the  port  of  the  said  town  for  the 
conduct  of  the  armed  force  which  the  king  is  preparing  to  resist  George, 
duke  of  Clarence,  and  Richard,  earl  of  Warwick  and  Salisbury,  and  foreign 
enemies.  •         By  K.  by  word  of  mouth. 


218 


CALENDAR  OF  PATENT  ROLLS. 


'\_4i70.  3Iembrane  \.2d--'Cont. 

March  7.       Commission  of  array  to  the  king's  brother  George,  duke  of  Clarence,  tlie 
Waltham.     king's  kinsman  Richard,  earl  of  Warwick  and  Salisbury,  Walter  Senile, 
knight,  Richard  Crofte  tlie  elder,  Thomas  Throgmerton,  Thomas  Everton 
and  Thomas  Lygon  in  the  county  of  Worcester.  \^Fccdera.\ 

By  K.  by  word  of  mouth. 
The  like  to  George,  duke  of  Clarence,  Richard,  earl  of  Warwick  and 
Salisbury,  Thomas  Ferrers,  knight,  Sitnon  Mountford,  knight,  William 
Catesby,  knight,  Richard  Verney,  knight,  John  Greyville,  knight,  Thomas 
Bordyt,  Thomas  Hygford,  John  Hygford,  Henry  Botyller,  Thomas  Muston 
and  John  West  in  the  county  of  Warwick. 


Membrane  lOd. 


Ai)ril  26.  Commission  to  John  Rogger  to  seize  all  castles,  lordships,  manors,  lands 
Salisbury,  and  possessions  lale  of  George,  duke  of  Clarence,  Richard,  earl  of  Warwick, 
Richard  Welles,  Robert  "Welles,  Thomas  Dymmok,  Thomas  do  la  Lannde, 
Walter  Wrottesley,  Robert  Strelley,  Edward  Grey,  Henry  Lowys,  Geoffrey 
Gate,  Roger  Towcotes,  Reginald  Stonrton,  Thomas  Seymour,  Hugh 
Courtenay,  William  Ccurteuay,  Nicholas  Latymer,  knights;  Peter  Courtenay, 
chaplain  ;  Philip  Courtenay,  William  Conrtenay,  Humphrey  Courtenay,  • 
esquires;  John  Dorman,  Edward  Hargill,  John  Claro,  Richard  Brasingburgh, 
John  Barnaby,  chaplains ;  Henry  Grey  of  Groby,  Thomas  Grey  of  Groby, 
Edward  Hungerford,  Edmund  Hungerfordj  Richard  Roos,  William  Knyvet, 
Roger  Draycote,  Henry  Wrottesley,  George  Longvile,  John  Pury,  Thomas 
Stalibrd,  John  Rugge,  John  Leynthorpe,  John  Brokemau,  John  Peke, 
Richard  Clapham,  esquires;  John  Herthill,  Richard  Scrope,  esquire,  John 
Penne,  John  Say  son  of  John  Say,  knight,  James  Norys,  John  Rushe, 
'  yoman,'  John  Seinclowe,  Laurence  Ferelowe,  Robert  Strangways  son  of 
James  Strangways,  knight,  John  Conyers  son  of  John  Conyers,  knight, 
George  Broun,  esquire,  Gervase  Horne  of  the  county  of  Kent  the  younger, 
William  Molyneux  the  secretary  of  the  said  duke,  William  Hndleston  and 
Thomas  Hudleston  the  sons  of  John  Hndleston,  knight,  John  Otter, 
Robert  Otter,  Thomas  Otter,  yeomen,  Henry  Talbot,  William  I'erburgh, 
'  gentilman,'  Richard  Wareyn,  '  yoman,'  and  Thomas  Clemens,  '  gentilman,' 
rebels,  in  the  counties  of  Kent  and  Middlesex  and  the  city  of  London  and 
their  goods  and  chattels,  and  ajipointment  of  liim  as  receiver  of  the  same 
Avith  full  power  to  collect  all  issues  and  arrears  and  cut  down  and  sell  wood 
and  underwood  and  sell  the  said  goods  and  chattels.  By  K. 

The  like  to  the  following  : — 

Maurice  Kydwelly  in  the  counties  of  Surrey,  Sussex  and  Wilts. 

John  Colgyll  in  the  counties  of  Southampton  and  Dorset. 

William  Knoyle  in  the  county  of  Somerset  and  the  town  of  Bristol. 

Nicholas  Loure  in  the  counties  of  Devon  and  Cornwall. 

Henry  Gray,  esquire,  in  the  counties  of  Norfolk  and  Suffolk. 

Robert  Dauucy  in  the  counties  of  Essex  and  Hertford. 

Geoffrey  Blodewell  in  the  counties  of  Cambridge,  Huntingdon,  Bed- 
ford and  Buckingham. 

Thomas  Crofte  in  the  counties  of  Oxford  and  Berks. 

Nicholas  Leventhorpe  in  tlie  county  of  Lincoln,  the  manors  and  lands 
called  '  Richcniond  Fee'  and  the  manor  find  lordship  of  Kyme 
excepted. 

John  Eltimhed  in  (he  counties  of  Northampton,  Rutland  and  Leicester. 
John  Byrde  of  Derby  in  the  counties  of  Nottingham  and  Derby. 
John  Beaufeys  in  the  county  of  Warwick. 
Thomas  Throgjuerton  in  the  county  of  Worcester. 
Thomas  Lymmeryk  in  the  county  of  Gloucester. 


10  EDWARD  IV. 


219 


1470. 


Marcli  26. 
York. 


April  15. 
Kxetcr. 


April  17. 
Exeter. 


knight,  Cimrles 
tlio   county  of 


Membrane  lOd — cont. 

Hugh  Hunteley  in  the  county  of  Hereford. 
Humphrey  Blount  in  the  county  of  Salop. 
Thomas  Olyver  in  the  county  of  York. 

Jolin  Acton,  esquire,  in  the  county  of  Stafford,  the  lordship  and  manor 
of  Tutbury  excepted,  and  the  counties  of  Lancaster  and  Chester. 
Vacated. 

Robert  Claxton,  knight,  in  the  county  of  Northumberland  and  the 
bishopric  of  Durham. 

William  Legh,  knight,  in  the  counties  of  Cumberland  and  Westmore- 
land. 

Roger  Vaughan,  knight,  in  the  parts  of  South  Wales.  Vacated. 

Commission  of  array  to  Fulk  Bourghchier  of  Fitz-Waren,  knight,  John 
Dynham  of  Dynliam,  knigiit,  Thomas  Fulford,  knight,  Charles  Dynham, 
John  Crokker  and  the  sheriff  in  the  county  of  Devon  for  defence  against 
George,  duke  of  Clarence,  and  Richard,  earl  of  Warwick,  rebels.  \_Fvedera.'] 

By  K. 

The  like  to  the  following  in  the  counties  named  :  — 
John  Dynham  of  Dynham,  knight,  Thomas  Fulford, 
Dynham,   Henry  Bodrugan   and   the  sheriff,  in 
Cornwall. 

Richard,  duke  of  Gloucester,  Thomas,  viscount  Lysle,  William 
Berkeley  of  Berkeley,  knight,  John  Barre,  knight,  John  Boteier, 
knight,  Richard  Beauchamp,  Maurice  Berkeley  of  Beverston,  Robert 
Poynes  and  the  sheriff,  in  the  county  of  (Houcester. 

Richard,  duke  of  Gloucester,  Walter  Dovereux  of  Ferrers,  knight, 
James  Baskervile,  knight,  and  the  sheriff  in  the  county  of  Hereford. 

Thomas,  viscount  Lysh-,  Fulk  Bourghchier  of  Fitz  Waren,  knight, 
John  Dynham  of  Dynham,  knight,  .John  Willughl)y,  knight,  Robert 
Willughby  and  the  sheriff,  in  the  county  of  Somei'set. 

William,  earl  of  Arundell,  Thomas  Arundell  of  Mautravers,  knight, 
William  Stourton  of  Slourton,  knight,  John  Willughby,  knight, 
George  Darell,  knight,  John  Wroughton,  Walter  Barough,  Henry 
Longe  and  the  sheriff,  in  the  county  of  Wilts. 

John  Sutton  of  Dudley,  knight,  .John  Burgh,  knight,  Humphrey 
Hlount,  Robert  Cresset  and  the  sheriff,  in  the  county  of  Salop. 

William  Ilastyngez  of  Hastyngcs,  knight,  Walter  Blount  of  Mountjoy, 
knight,  John  Stanley,  knight,  .Tohn  Grcscley,  knight,  Humphrey 
Peseliale,  AVilliam  Basset,  Philip  Okor,  George  Stanley  and  the 
sheriff,  in  the  county  of  Stafford. 

William,  earl  of  Arundell,  Thomas  Arundell  of  Mautravers,  knight, 
John  Audeley  of  Audeley,  knight,  AVilliam  Stourton  of  Stourton, 
knight,  John  Nuburgh,  John  Carant  the  younger,  John  More,  John 
(Jarant  the  elder  and  the  sherifF,  in  the  county  of  Dorset. 

The  king's  kinsman  Edmund,  earl  of  I'Cent,  Edward  Nevyll  of 
Bergcvenny,  knight,  John  Fog;j;e,  knight,  John  Scotte,  knight, 
William  Haute,  knight,  John  Colpcpcr,  Richard  Colpeper,  .fames 
Pekliam,  John  Jsley,  John  Scllyng,  John  Sibyll,  Thomas  Dyggos, 
William  Clyfford  and  the  sheriff,  in  the  county  of  Kent.         By  K. 

Richard,  duke  of  Gloucester,  John,  earl  of  Wiltshire,  Walter  Blount  of 
^Mountjoy,  knight,  John  Willughby,  knight,  Philip  Beaumont,  Philip 
Copleston,  John  Fortescue,  Robert  Wylughby,  John  Crokker,  John 
Orchard,  John  Denys,  John  Reyny  and  the  sheriff,  in  the  county  of 
Devon. 

Richard,  duke  of  Gloucester,  John,  carl  of  Wiltshire,  Walter  Blount  of 
Mountjoy,  knight,  John  Willughby,  knight,  John  Fortescu,  Robert 
Willughby  .John  Sturgeon  and.thc  sheriH',  in  the  county  of  Cornwall. 


220  CALENDAR  OF  PATENT  ROLLS. 


1470.  Membrane  9d. 

June  5.        Commission  to  John  Willoughby,  knight,  Robert   Willughby,  John 
Westminster.  Fortescue  and  the  sheriff  of  Cornwall  to  arrest  Thomas  Clemens  tbe  elder 
and  bring  him  before  the  king  and  council. 

June  5.  Commission  to  Henry  Longe,  John  Whittokesmede,  Philip  Morgan  and 
Westminster.  Henry  Sweyne  to  inquire  into  the  complaint  of  John  Kevell  of  Bereford, 
CO.  Wilts,  that  divers  evildoers  unknown  to  him,  at  the  instigation  of 
Thomas  Gate,  rector  of  Bereford,  assaulted  him  so  that  he  dared  not  go  to 
his  holding  for  fear  of  death  and  could  not  execute  divers  warrants  "which 
he  obtained  from  tlie  justices  of  the  peace  in  the  said  county  against  the 
said  Thomas  for  the  security  of  the  peace,  and,  if  it  be  true,  to  arrest  the 
said  Thomas  and  bring  him  before  the  king  and  council  on  the  quinzaine  of 
Holy  Trinity  next. 

June  2.  Commission  of  array  to  the  king's  brother  Richard,  duke  of  Gloucester, 
Westmiuster.  the  king's  kinsman  John,  earl  of  Worcester,  John  Barre,  knight,  John 
Boteler  of  Barmyngton,  knight,  Richard  Beauchamp,  Maurice  Berkeley, 
Thomas  Brigge,  Robert  Poynes  and  the  sheriff  in  the  county  of  Gloucester 
for  defence  against  George,  duke  of  Clarence,  and  Richard,  earl  of  Warwick, 
rebels. 

The  like  to  the  following  in  the  counties  named  : — 

William,  earl  of  Arundel,  John,  earl  of  Worcester,  Anthony,  earl  of 
Ryvers,  .John  Audeley  of  Audeley,  knight,  Thomas  Ovedale,  knight, 
John  Lysle,  knight,  Richard  Darell,  knight,  Maurice  Berkeley, 
Edward  Berkeley,  John  Cheyne,  John  Coke,  William  Brocas,  John 
Walop,  John  Rogers  and  Jolin  Whithed,  in  the  county  of  South- 
ampton. 

John,  earl  of  Worcester,  .John  Barre,  knight,  Thomas  Baynham  and 
William  Walweyn,  in  the  forest  of  Dene. 

R.  bishop  of  Salisbury,  William,  earl  of  Arundell,  .John,  earl  of 
Worcester,  John  Audeley  of  Audeley,  knight,  William  Stourton  of 
Stourton,  knight,  John  Willoughby,  knight,  George  Darell,  knight, 
Laurence  Raynford,  knight,  Maurice  Berkeley,  Edward  Berkeley, 
Henry  Longe  and  Walter  Barowe,  in  the  count}"-  of  Wilts. 

John,  earl  of  Worcester,  Fulk  Bourgchier  of  Fitz-Wareyn,  knight, 
John  Dynham  of  Dynham,  knight,  Charles  Dynham,  Nicholas 
Carrewe,  Philip  Beaumont,  John  Fortescu,  Philip  Coplestou  and 
John  Crokker,  in  the  county  of  Devon. 

John,  earl  of  Worcester,  John  Audeley  of  Audeley,  knight,  William 
Stourton  of  Stourton,  knight,  '  William  Carant,  .fohn  Carant  the 
elder,  John  Carant  the  younger,  .John  Neweburgh,  William  Brounyng, 
John  Mone,  Thomas  Martyn  and  Robert  Grey,  in  the  county  of 
Dorset. 

Richard,  duke  of  Gloucester,  John,  earl  of  Worcester,  John  Audeley 
of  Audeley,  knight,  William  Stourton  of  Stourton,  knight,  William 
Paulet,  knight,  Henry  Hull,  liichard  Artour,  John  Byconcll, 
Richard  Warre,  Thomas  Stowell,  John  Boiler  and  John  Cheyne,  in 
the  county  of  Somerset. 

John,  earl  of  Worcester,  John  Dynham  of  Dynhain,  knight,  John 
Arundel!,  knight,  eJohn  Colsliill,  knight,  Henry  Bodrug.an,  Robert 
Willoughby,  Oto  Gilbert,  and  Alvrcd  Corneburgh,  in  the  county  of 
Cornwall. 

Richard,  duke  of  Gloucester,  Walter  Devereux  of  Ferrers,  knight, 
James  Baskervile,  knight,  John  Devereux,  Thomas  Monyngton 
and  the  sheriff,  in  the  county  of  Hereford. 


10  EDWARD  IV. 


221 


1470.  Membrane  8d. 

July  5.  Commission  to  the  mayor  and  bailiffs  of  the  town  of  Bishop's  Lenn,  the 
Westminster,  bailiffs  of  the  town  of  Scardeburgh  and  John  More,  alias  Windsor  herald, 
on  complaint  by  Vincent  le  Noble,  Francis  Dappemont,  I'errenot  Morioe, 
William  Gardyn,  John  le  Foretier,  Vincent  le  Noble,  Robert  Acher, 
Perrenot  de  Seynt  Morice  and  John  Fransoys,  merchants  of  Depe  in 
Normandy,  that  divers  pirates  in  a  carvel  of  Bishop's  Lenn,  of  which 
Ro])ert  Eryng  was  master,  and  William  Walys,  John  Tylly,  William 
Bylmyno,  Edmund  Pepyr  and  Edmund  Westliorp  victuallers,  took  them  in 
throe  ships  of  France  and  despoiled  them  of  the  said  ships  and  divers 
goods  and  merchandise,  contrary  to  the  form  of  letters  of  safe-conduct  of 
the  king,  to  arrest  the  said  William  Waleys,  John  Tylly,  William  Bylrayne, 
RobertEryug,  Edmund  and  Edmund  and  bring  them  before  the  king  in  council 
on  18  July,  and  to  seize  the  said  ships,  goods  and  nierehandise  and  Myiiyn 
Enault  de  la  Pappe,  Roger  Souterell,  John  de  Gone,  Nicholas  Visier,  John 
Frequet,  Ivonait  le  Sage  and  a  servant  of  the  said  Ivonait,  mariners  in  the 
said  ships  at  the  time  of  their  capture,  and  keep  them  in  safe-custody  and 
certify  accordingly  to  the  king  and  council. 


Membrane  Id. 

July  II.  Commission  of  oyer  and  terminer  to  the  king's  brother  Richard,  duke 
Westminster,  of  Gloucester,  the  king's  kinsmen  John,  manpiess  oi  Mountague,  Henry, 
earl  of  Northumborlnnd,  John,  earl  of  \Vorccster,  and  Henry,  earl  of  Essex, 
Ileiiry  Grey  of  CoJuoie,  knight,  Humpliroy  Bourgchicr  of  Cromwell, 
knight,  William  Ilastyngcs  of  Ilastynges,  kniglit,  Walter  Blount  of 
Mountjoye,  knight,  Thomas  Billyng,  Koliert  Danby,  knight,  William 
Yelverton,  knight,  Richard  Byngliain,  knight,  William  Laken,  Richard 
Nele,  Walter  Moyle,  knight,  John  Ncdeham,  knight,  Richard  Chokko, 
knight,  Thomas  Littylton,  Thomas  Yong,  Robert  Crabden,  mayor  of 
Lincoln,  Thomas  Burgh,  knight,  and  Richard  Haatynges,  in  the  county  and 
city  of  Lincoln.  By  K. 

June  20.       Commission  to  Richard  Sothewell,  esquire,  Ralph   Shelton,  esijuire, 
Wcstiniiister.  Simon  Blake  and  the  escheator  in  the  county  of  Norfolk  to  enquire  what 
lands  and  tenements  George  Nevyllc  of  Latymer,  knight,  deceased,  tenant 
in  chief,  held  in  the  said  county  and  to  take  them  into  the  king's  hands 
and  to  enquire  who  is  his  heir. 


Membrane  6d. 

Aug.  26.  Commission  of  oyer  and  terminer  to  the  king's  brother  Richard,  duke  of 
Westminster.  Gloucester,  the  king's  kinsman  Henry,  earl  of  Northumberland,  Ralph 
Graystoke  of  Graystok,  knight,  Thomas  Billyng,  Robert  Danby,  kniglit, 
William  Yelverton,  knight,  Richard  Byngham,  knight,  William  Laken, 
Richard  Nelc,  Waller  Moylc,  kniglit,  .lohn  Nedeliani,  knight,  Richard 
Chok,  knight,  Thomas  LytoUou  and  Thomas  Yongc,  in  the  city  of  York 
and  the  liberty  of  the  same.  By  K. 

Sept.  U.       Commission  to  Henry  BurncU,  esquire,  George  Middelton,  esquire, 
Westminster.  Thomas  Larder  and  John  Draper  to  arrest  and  imprison  Hugh  Denys  of 
Yevell,  CO.  Somerset,  '  wyne  taverner,'  John  Rose  of  Yevcll,  '  hosier,'  and 
John  Flail  of  Yevell,  '  payntour  ' 


Membrane  4d. 

June  27.        Commission  to  John  Scot,  knight,  and  John  Pilkyngton  to  take  muster 
Wcstiniutter.  of  all  men  at  arms  and  archers  of  the  armed  force  under  the  command  of 
the  king's  kinsman  Anthony,  earl  Ryvers,  and  the  masters  and  mariners  of 
the  ships  for  the  conduct  of  the  same  in  the  port  of  Sandwich. 


222 


CALENDAR  OF  PATENT  ROLLS. 


1470.-  Membrane  id — cont. 

July  7.  Commission  to  Ralph  Assheton>  knight,  John  Atherton,  esquire,  William 
Westminster.  Blesdale,  William  Nandyke  and  William  Stable  to  seize  a  certain  ship  of 
Robert  Ros  of  Calais  and  to  arrest  all  persons  guilty  of  the  capture  of 
63  bales  of  woad  of  Ralph  de  Vyvaldes,  merchant  of  Genoa,  in  the  river 
Thames,  contrary  to  the  form  of  letters  of  safe-conduct  of  the  king,  as  the 
king  understands  that  the  bales  were  taken  by  certain  pirates  in  the  said 
ship. 

Aug.  8.  Commission  to  John  W.?do,  esquire,  Richard  Forde,  Robert  Basset, 
Westminster,  Eichard  Tnrnaunt,  Richard  Restwold,  Humphrey  For.ster,  Richard  Barnet, 
Thomas  Luyt,  Tliomas  Babham  and  John  Upton  to  enquire  by  oath  of 
good  men  of  the  counties  of  Kent,  Hertford,  Essf.x,  Surrey,  Middlesex, 
Berks,  Buckingham,  Oxford  and  Gloucester  into  the  capture  of  swans  and 
cygnets  on  the  river  Thames  and  its  tributaries  from  Cirencestre  to  its 
mouth  by  hooks,  nets,  '  lyme  stryngz  '  and  other  engines,  the  alteration  or 
deletion  of  the  marks  of  swans  and  the  taking  of  swans'  eggs,  and  to  arrest 
and  imprison  the  offenders. 


223 


49  HENRY  VI. 


1470. 

Oct.  20. 

Westmiuster. 


Oct.  10. 
Westininstcr. 

Oct.  21. 

Westminster. 

Oct.  22, 
Westminster. 

Nov.  5. 

^\  estmiuster. 


Nov.  3. 
WeKtininster. 

Nov.  13. 
AVestminKter. 


Nov.  17. 

Westminster. 

Nov.  23. 

Westminster. 

Nov.  24. 

Westminster. 

Nov.  28. 
Westminster. 


Membrane  27. 

Pardons  of  outlawry  to  the  following  : — 

George  Wyllerdby  late  of  London,  '  gold.smyth,'  for  not  appearing 
before  Robert  Danby  and  his  fellows,  justices  of  the  Bench  of 
Edward  IV.  late  de  facto  king  of  England,  to  answer  William 
Melsenby,  citizen  and  goldsraitii  of  London,  touching  a  debt  of  27/- 
he  having  surrendered  to  the  Flete  prison,  as  Robert  Danby,  chief 
justice  of  the  Bench,  has  certified.  London. 

John  Bai'on  late  of  Westansty,  co.  Devon,  '  husbondman,'  for  not 
appearing  to  answer  a  plea  that  he  render  40  sheep  worth  40.v.  antl 
a  purse  containing  13^.  ^d.  to  Thomas  Gybbe.  Devon, 

Robert  Chols  late  of  Kentbury,  co,  Berks,  '  liusbondman,'  for  not 
iippearing  to  answer  John,  abbot  of  Glastonbury,  touching  a  debt  of 
40/.  Middlesex. 

John  Curteys  of  Dorchestre,  co,  Oxford,  '  bocher,'  for  not  appearing 
to  answer  John  Togood  touching  a  debt  of  40s.  Oxford. 

William  Horn  late  of  Crake,  co.  York,  '  yoman,'  ttlias  AVilliara  Ilorn-se, 
'wodebeycr,'  for  not  appearing  to  answer  a  plea  that  he  render 
7  marks  to  Conand  Barton,  executor  of  the  will  of  Richard  Barton 
late  of  Whenby,  co.  York,  esquire.  Middlesex. 

Henry  Anneson  late  of  Clyderowo,  co,  Lancaster,  '  youian,'  for  not 
appearing  to  answer  William  Harbaur  touching  a  trespass. 

Norfolk. 

Edward  Everard  late  of  Fordyngbryggc,  co.  Southampton,  '  dyer,'  for 
not  appearing  to  answerj  John  Ileynes,  'cite/en'  and  '  draper '  of 
London,  and  William  Shukburgh,  citizen  and  draper  of  London, 
touching  a  debt  of  50*'.  Middlesex. 

John  Lychefeld  late  of  Coryrevell,  co.  Somerset,  *  scryvener,'  for  not 
appearing  to  answer  John  Adams  touching  a  debt  of  405. 

Middlesex. 

John  Cresbien  of  Stour  Westcvere,  co.  Dorset,  '  fraukeleyn,'  for  not 
appearing  to  answer  Geoffrey  Eeldyng,  ♦  mercer,'  and  Edmund 
llcdekuape,  'mercer,'  touching  a  debt  of  140/.  Middlesex. 

Richard  Shirburn  late  of  Cambridge,  cliaplain,  for  not  appearing  to 
answer  a  plea  that  he  render  chattels  to  the  value  of  2(^/:  to  John 
Derby,  clerk.  Cambridge. 

Stephen  Debenham  of  Hoxcn,  co.  Suffolk,  '  yoman,'  for  not  appearing 
to  answer  Waller  Lyhert,  bishop  of  Norwich,  touching  a  debt  of 
4  marks. 


Nov.  3. 
Westminster. 

Oct.  30. 
Westminster. 


Membiiane  2G. 

Robert  Boucher  late  of  llilder.-;hani,  co,  Cambridge,  '  liusbondman,'  for 
not  api)earing  to  answer  the  prior  of  rentcncy  toucliiug  a  debt  of 
20/,  Norlblk. 

John  Thurgcr  late  of  Little  Abytoa,  co.  Cambridge,  the  elder, 
'  liusbondman,'  for  the  like.  Norfolk. 


224 


CALENDAR  OF  PATENT  ROLLS. 


]  470.  Membrane  26 — cont. 

Nov.  24.  Robert  Ryle  late  of  Cheshain,  co.  Buckingham,  'yoman,'  for  not 

"Westminster.  appearing  to  answer  Edmund  Burdenell  the  elder  touching  a  trespass 

and  Henry  Axstell  and  Henry  Couper,  wardens  of  the  goods  and 
chattels  of  the  parish  church  of  Clieshamboys,  touching  a  trespass. 

Buckingham. 

Nov.  28.  Thomas  Beny  alias  Benne  late  of  York,  clerk,  for  not  appearing  to 

Westminster.  answer  Thomas  Bramley,  chaplain,  touching  a  debt  of  40*.  and 

William  Broun,  clerk,  and  William  Mounley,  citizen  and  'lynen- 
draper  '  of  London,  touching  a  debt  of  10  marks.  London. 


1471. 

Jan.  26. 
Westminster. 


Jan.  26. 

Westminster. 

Jan.  27. 

Westminster. 

Jan.  25. 

Westminster. 


Jan.  25. 

Westminster. 


1470. 

Nov.  28. 

Westminster. 


1471. 

Jan.  20. 
Westmiusttr. 


Membrane  24. 

John  Marke  of  Hereford,  co.  Devon,  'mylward,'  for  not  appearing 
before  the  justices  of  the  Bench  to  answer  Thomas  Drewe  touching 
a  trespass  committed  by  him  and  Nicholas  Worford  of  Plympton 
Earle,  co.  Devon,  '  baker,'  William  Cornyssh  of  Plympton  Earle, 
'  baker,'  and  Robert  Parker  of  Colbroke,  co.  Devon,  '  barker.' 

Devon. 

John  Hawkyns  late  of  Eston,  co.  Gloucester,  '  husbondman,'  for  not 
appearing  to  answer  James  Clyfford,  esquire,  touching  a  debt  of  40/. 

Gloucester. 

Thomas  Hesount  late  of  London,  'mercer,'  for  not  appearing  to  render 
his  account  to  William  Traas  of  London,  '  mercer,'  for  the  time 
Avhen  he  was  his  receiver.  London. 

Robert  Wylde  late  of  Woxbrigge,  co.  Middlesex,  clerk,  for  not 
appearing  before  the  late  king  to  answer  John  Dorham,  Edmund 
Westby,  esquire,  Philip  Skydmore,  esquire,  Thomas  Eyre,  RichartJ 
Rysley,  John  Ploufeld  and  Roger  Couper  touching  a  trespass. 

Middlesex. 

Michael  Moundevile  late  of  Arnndell,  co.  Sussex,  '  chapman,' for  not 
appearing  before  Robert  Danby  and  liis  fellows,  justices  of  the 
Bench  of  the  late  king,  to  answer  Isabel  Ryche,  widow,  touching  a 
debt  of  6/.  9*.  *ld.  London. 

William  Paixlon  of  Hertwell,  co.  Buckingham,  'yoman,'  for  not 
appearing  before  the  justices  of  the  Bench  to  answer  John,  abbot  of 
the  monastery  of  St,  Mary,  Oseneye,  and  William  Raa  toucliing 
debts  of  40s.  and  20/.  respectively.  Oxford, 

Richard  Roberts  alias  Richard  Poort  of  Bristol,  *  fysshemonger,'  for 
not  appearing  before  the  justices  of  the  Bench  of  the  late  king  to 
answer  Nicholas  Warynges  touching  a  debt  of  20  marks.  Surrey. 


Jan.  23. 
Wcstuunster. 


Feb.  5. 
Westminster. 


Membrane  22. 

Thomas  Trebulcok  late  of  Trebellam  by  Trelaste,  co.  Cornwall, 
' )  oman,'  for  not  appearing  before  Robert  Daiihy  and  his  fellows, 
justices  of  the  Bench  of  the  late  king,  when  sued  with  Thomas 
Edwardis  late  of  Landue  in  the  parish  of  Lassant,  co.  Cornwall, 
*  yoman,' and  Peter  Beke  late  of  Landue, 'husbondman,'  to  answer 
John  Roberd  touching  a  trespass.  Middlesex. 

John  Hoo  late  of  Ilketeleshale,  co.  Suffolk,  *  gentilman,'  for  not 
appearing  to  answer  Richard  Sowthewell,  esquire,  touchinj?-  a  debt 
of  20/.  Norfolk. 


49  HENRY  VI. 


225 


1471. 


Feb.  3, 

Westminster. 


Feb.  6. 
Westminster. 

Jan.  30, 

AV'^estminster. 


Feb.  G. 
Westminster. 


Feb.  9. 
Westminster. 


Feb.  7. 
Westminster. 


Feb.  8. 

Westminster. 

Feb.  9. 
Westminster. 


y  9618f., 


Membrane  22 — cont.  ■ 

John  Careles  of  Great  Todj'ngton,  co.  Hereford,  the  younger, '  hiisbond- 
man,'  for  not  ajipearing  before  the  late  king  when  sued  with  William 
Page  of  Great  Codyngtou,  co.  Hereford,  '  husbondman,'  to  answer 
Thomas  Spaklyug  touching  a  trespass.  Wilts. 

John  Wylly  of  Bristol,  '  mai'yncr,'  and  Margaret  his  wife,  late  the 
wife  of  William  Phelpot,  executrix  of  the  will  of  William  Phelpot 
alias  Philpot  late  of  Bristol,  *  maryner,'  for  not  appearing  before  Robert 
Danby  and  his  fellows,  justices  of  the  Bench  of  the  late  king,  to 
answer  a  plea  that  they  render  8  marks  Zs.  Ad.  to  John  Phelpot  late 
of  Bristol,  '  draper,'  alias  John  Phelippes,  '  hosyer.'  Middlesex. 

John  Clerk  late  of  Great  Everdon,  co.  Northampton,  '  yoman,'  for  not 
appearing  to  answer  Richard  ILotoft,  '  esfjuire,'  touching  a  debt  of 
10/.  Leicester. 

William  Caurape  of  Stonhara  by  Aspalo,  co.  Suffolk,  '  husbondman,' 
alias  William  Campc  late  of  Aspatonam,  co.  Suffolk,  alias  late  of 
Mykelfckle,  co.  SulFolk,  for  not  appearing  before  Richard  Neuton 
and  his  fellows,  late  justices  of  the  Bench,  (o  answer  John  Bradwey 
touching  a  debt  of  100s.  before  John  Prysot  and  his  fellows,  late 
justices  of  the  Bench,  to  auswcr  Thomas  Hunt,  prior  of  tiio  church 
of  St.  Mary,  Walsynghatn,  touching  a  debt  of  20/.  and  before 
Robert  Dani)y  and  his  fellows,  justices  of  the  Bench  of  the  lato 
king,  to  answer  Bartholomew  Damyon  touching  a  debt  of  40«.  and 
Thomas  Moleyns,  'gentilman,'  of  Stoke  touching  a  debt  of  lO*-. 

Suffolk  &  Norfolk. 

John  Stodhowe  alias  Stodhawe  late  of  Hatfeld  Pererell,  co.  Essex, 
esquire,  for  not  appearing  before  Robert  Danby  and  his  fellows, 
justices  of  tlio  Bench  of  the  late  king,  to  answer  John  Speny, 
citizen  and  skinner  of  London,  touching  a  debt  of  40s.  London. 

William  Iloigges  late  of  Wodeford,  co.  Devon,  'gcnlihnan,'  alias 
Denpryour,  for  not  appearing  before  Jolin  Prysot  and  liis  fellows, 
late  ju.sticos  of  the  Bench,  to  answer  John  Bocher  of  Bishop's 
Lynno  and  Thomas  Edmond  of  London,  '  fysshomonger,'  touching  a 
debt  of  20/.  London. 

William  Parson  late  of  Swepcston,  co.  Leicester,  chaplain,  executor 
of  the  will  of  William  Scgrave  late  of  Ibstoko,  C(\.  Leicester, 
chaplain,  for  not  appearing  to  answer  a  plea  that  ho  rentier  5:0/.  to 
Richard  Cronkesagh.  Leicester. 

William  Burges  of  Bridport,  co.  Dorset,  the  yoongor,  chapman,  for 
not  appearing  to  answer  John  Lambard,  citizen  and  mercer  of 
London,  and  Philip  Howell,  citizen  and  mercer  of  London,  touching 
a  debt  of  II/.  2s.  8r/.  London. 

Henry  FitzJohn  late  of  Hamerton,  co.  Huntingdon,  'husbondman,' 
for  not  appearing  before  Robert  Danby  and  his  fellows,  justices  of 
the  Bench  of  the  late  kiug,  when  sued  with  John  FitzJohn  late  of 
Hiimerton, '  husbondman,'  to  auswcr  John  Upsalo  touching  a  trespass. 

London. 

Richard  Walet  alias  Waloys  lato  of  Bexhill,  co.  Kent,  '  bocher,'  for 
not  appciuing  to  answer  Robert  Bystrete  touching  a  debt  of  40s. 

Sussex. 

William  Whyppe  of  Norwich,  '  husbondman,'  alias  William  Whippe, 
'yonian,'  for  not  appearing  to  answer  John  Pynchamore  touching  a 
debt  of  100s.  and  to  answer  a  plea  that  he  render  a  purse  containing 
12/.  to  James  Catte.  Norfolk. 


226 


CALENDAR  OF  PATENT  ROLLS, 


1471. 

Jan.  10. 

Westminster. 

1470. 

Nov.  28. 
Westminster. 


1471. 

Feb.  8. 

Westminster. 


Feb.  12. 
Westminster. 


Feb.  8. 
Westminster. 


Membrane  22 — cont. 

William  Norton  of  Lyng,  co.  Norfolk,  'fuller,'  for  not  appearing 
before  John  Prysot  and  his  fellows,  late  justices  of  the  Bench,  to 
answer  Nicholas  Gatesheude  touching  a  debt  of  405.  Norfolk. 

Richard  Mathewe  late  of  Craweley,  co.  Sussex,  '  chapman,'  for  not 
appearing  before  Robert  Danby  and  his  fellows,  justices  of  the 
Bench  of  the  late  king,  to  answer  Thomas  Brewes,  citizen  and  tailor 
of  London,  touching  a  debt  of  20  marks.  Sussex. 

John  Sherlok  of  Bourhenton  in  the  parish  of  Mertok,  co  Somerset, 
'  husbondman,'  for  not  appearing  to  answer  John  Roggers  alias 
Rogger  touching  a  debt  of  IOO5.  London. 

John  Rede  of  Becclys,  co.  Suffolk,  'yoman,'  alias  John  Rede  the  elder, 
'  marchaunt,'  for  not  appearing  to  answer  William  Norwich,  citizen 
and  alderman  of  Norwich,  and  William  Ilkston  alias  Ilston,  *  haber- 
das.sher '  of  London,  touching  debts  of  6/.  and  44*.  respectively. 

London. 

Thomas  Waspus  late  of  Croydon,  co.  Surrey,  '  otemonger,'  for  not 
appearing  before  John  Prysot  and  his  fellows,  late  justices  of  the 
Bench,  to  answer  Thomas  Brygge,  clerk,  touching  a  debt  of  40*. 

Middlesex. 

John  Holt  late  of  Aston  by  Bermycham,  co.  Warwick,  esquire,  for 
not  appearing  before  the  said  justices  to  ansvver  John  Melbourne, 
citizen  and  grocer  of  London,  John  Sturgeon,  citizen  and  mercer  of 
London,  Henry  Fylongley,  esquire,  Henry  Lokke,  citizen  and  tailor 
of  London,  Thomas  Gay  the  elder,  citizen  and  tailor  of  London,  and 
Robert  Osberne,  esquire,  touching  debts  of  16/.  18s.  1\d.  AOs.  iOOs. 
40s.  41.  16s.  8d.  and  40s.  respectively,  and  before  Robert  Danby  and 
his  fellows,  justices  of  tlie  Bench  of  the  late  king,  to  answer  William 
Latoner,  citizen  and  tailor  of  Loudon,  Richard  Warwyk,  citizen  and 

•  skinner  of  London,  and  John  Broun  touching  debts  of  40s.  40s. 
and  10  marks  respectively.  Loudon  &  Warwick. 

John  Nowera  of  Tackeley,  co.  Oxford,  esquire,  for  not  appearing  before 
Robert  Danby  and  his  fellows,  justices  of  the  Bench  of  the  late  king, 
to  answer  Thomas  Wilcotes  of  Deene,  co,  Oxford,  esquire,  John 
Yerde,  citizen  and  draper  of  London,  and  Richard  Quatremayns, 
esquire,  touching  debts  of  20  marks,  10/.  and  40.f.  respectively. 

Surrey  &  London. 


l^fjQ  Membrane  21. 

Oct.  9.         Grant,  during  office,  to  Richard  Illyngworth,  knight,  chief  baron  of  the 
Westminster.  Exchequer,  of  1 10  marks  yearly  at  the  Exchequer  and  two  robes  yearly, 
one  with  skin  at  Christmas,  and  the  other  with  lining  at  Whitsuntide, 
beyond  the  accustomed  fee. 

Oct.  9.  Grant  to  Thomas  Billyng,  chief  justice  of  the  King's  Bench,  of  180 
"Westminster,  marks  yearly  at  the  hands  of  the  clerk  or  keeper  of  the  hanaper  or  the 
customers  in  the  ports  of  London,  Bristol  and  Kyngeston  on  Hull  according 
to  the  form  of  an  act  in  Parliament  at  Westminster,  18  Henry  VI,  and 
10t)s.  l\\d.  and  the  sixth  part  of  \d.  yearly  at  Christmas  for  a  robe  with 
fur  and  66«.  Qd.  yearly  at  Whitsuntide  for  a  robe  with  lining. 
The  like  to  Robert  Danby,  knight,  chief  justice  of  the  Bench. 

Oct.  9.  Grant  as  above  to  William  Yelverton,  knight,  one  of  the  justices  of  the 
Westminster.  King's  Bench,  of  110  marks  yearly  and  106s.  U\d.  and  the  sixth  part  of 


49  HENRY  VI. 


227 


14.70.  Membrane  21 — cont. 

\d.  yearly  at  Christmas  for  a  robe  with  fur  and  6Gs,  6d.  yearly  at 
Wiiitsuntide  for  a  robe  with  lining. 
The  like  to  the  following  justices  :— 

William  Laken,  ono  of  the  justices  of  the  King's  Bench. 
John  Nedeham,  knight,  one  of  the  justices  of  the  Bench. 
Richard  Byngham,  knight,  one  of  the  justices  of  the  King's  Bench. 
Richard  Neeli,  one  of  the  justices  of  the  King's  Bench. 
Walter  Moyle,  knight,  one  of  the  justices  of  the  Bench. 
Thomas  Lyttelton,  one  of  the  justices  of  the  Bench. 
Richard  Chokke,  knight,  one  of  the  justices  of  the  Bench. 
Thomas  Yonge,  one  of  the  justices  of  the  Bench. 

Nov.  23.  Pardon  to  John  Laurence  alias  Laurens  of  Wyboldeston  in  the  parish  of 
AVestmiiistcr.  Eton,  co.  Bedford,  'gentilman,'  late  escheator  of  the  late  king  in  the 
counties  of  Cambridge  and  Huntingdon,  of  his  outlawries  in  Middlesex 
and  Loudon  for  not  appearing  before  Robert  Danljy  and  his  fellows, 
justices  of  the  Bench  of  the  late  king,  to  satisfy  John  Manyngham,  esquire, 
of  17/.  6^.  8(7.  which  tlie  latter  recovered  against  him  before  the  said 
justices  and  6  marks  damages  and  to  satisfy  tlie  said  late  king  of  his  ransom 
for  denying  a  writing  obligatory  of  17/.  6s.  Sd.  before  John  Prysot  and  his 
fellows,  late  justices  of  the  Bench,  to  answer  Ralph,  baron  of  Graystok 
and  Wem,  knight,  touching  a  debt  of  16  marks  '.is.  Ad.  and  before  the  said 
justices  of  the  late  king  to  answer  Henry  Silver,  citizen  and  vintner  of 
London,  touching  a  debt  of  10/.  and  to  answer  a  plea  that  ho  render  40/.  to 
Joan  Clay,  widow,  late  the  wife  of  John  Clay,  knight,  John  Clay,  son  and 
heir  of  the  said  knight,  and  Robert  Grene,  e.squire,  executors  of  the  will 
of  the  said  knight;  he  having  surrendered  to  the  Flete  pri.son  and  satisfied 
the  said  John  Manyngham,  as  Robert  Dauby,  chief  justice  of  the  Bench,  has 
certified. 


Membrane  20. 

Oct,  29.        Grant,  during  pleasure,  to  Thomas  V'ynter  of  the  offices  of  coroner  and 
Wcstmiuster.  attorney  of  the  king  in  the  King's  Bench,  receiving  yearly  the  nccustomed 
fees  at  the  Exchequer  and  all  other  accustomed  i)rofits  and  emoluments. 

By  K.  by  word  of  mouth. 

Nov.  26.        Mandate  to  the  escheator  in  the  counties  of  Norfolk  and  Suffolk  for  (ho 
Wcstniiuster.  restitution  of  the  temporalities  of  the  abbey  of  St.  Benet,  Hulmo,  of  the 
Benedictine  order,  to  Thomas  Pakcfcld,  prol'e.-^sor  of  theology  and  monk  of 
tlie  monastery,  whose  election  as  abbot  VV.  bishop  of  Norwich  has  confirmed 
and  whose  fealty  the  king  has  taken.  By  p.s. 

Writ  dc  inteJidcndo  in  pursuance  to  the  tenants. 

Nov.  27.  Ratification  of  the  estate  which  John  Byckeley,  chaplain,  has  as  warden 
AVcstrainstcr.  of  tlie  hospital  of  St.  John  Baptist,  Shrew.sbury.    By  K.  by  word  of  mouth. 


Membrane  19. 

Oct.  23.  Grant,  during  pleasure,  to  the  king's  knight  Richard  Tunstall,  king's 
Westminslir.  chamberlain,  of  the  office  of  master  and  worker  of  the  king's  mints  within 
the  Tower  of  London,  the  realm  of  England  and  the  town  of  Calais,  with 
all  fees  and  profits  belonging  to  the  oflico  according  to  the  form  of  certain 
indentures  to  be  made,  with  ])Owcr  to  hohl  an  exchange,  common  and 
open,  in  the  city  of  Loudon.  By  K.  by  word  of  nioutii. 

Oct.  31.  Presentation  of  John  Smyth  to  the  parish  church  of  Shenfeld,  in  the 
Westminster,  diocese  of  London. 

P  2 


228 


CALENDAR  OF  PATENT  ROLLS. 


1470.  Membrane  19 — cont. 

Oct.  12.  Grant,  during  pleasure,  to  the  king's  servitor  John  Bagot,  one  of  the 
Westminster,  clerks  of  Chancery,  of  the  office  of  one  of  the  clerks  of  the  crown  in 
Chancery  which  William  Rous,  deceased,  lately  had  of  the  king's  grant, 
with  all  pi-ofits,  and  201.  yearly  from  Easter  last  from  the  issues  of  the 
hanaper,  as  the  said  William  had,  and  a  livery  of  vesture  and  fur,  as  Richard 
Sturgeon,  late  one  of  the  clerks  of  the  crown,  had,  yearly  at  Christmas  and 
Whitsuntide  at  the  hands  of  the  keeper  of  the  hanaper. 

Oct.  30.  Revocation  of  the  protection  with  clause  volmniis,  for  one  year,  granted 
Westminster,  on  25  October  by  letters  patent  to  John  Lee,  draper  and  citizen  of  London, 
alius  of  Teyrlynge,  co.  Essex,  '  gentilman,'  executor  of  the  will  of  Thomas 
Umfrey  of  London,  '  gentilman,'  staying  on  the  king's  service  in  the 
company  of  the  king's  kinsman  Richard,  earl  of  Warwick  and  Salisbury, 
captain  of  the  town  of  Calais,  on  the  safe-custody  and  defence  of  the  town, 
because  he  delays  in  London,  as  appears  by  certificate  of  the  sheriffs. 

Nov.  7.  Appointment,  during  pleasure,  of  William  Lyllebourno  as  receiver  or 
Westminster,  collector  of  the  rents,  farms,  issues  and  profits  of  the  town  and  lordship  of 
Niewbiggynge,  co.  Northumberland,  in  the  king's  hands  by  the  forfeiture  of 
John  Balliall,  late  king  of  Scots,  and  all  lands  late  of  Thomas  Soules  in  the 
.  Hough  in  Stanfordham,  co.  Northumberland,  and  forfeited  by  him  and  31s. 
yearly  rent  in  Ulleston  by  Hawkewell  and  a  tenement  in  Ingowe  called 
'  le  pasture  felde  '  in  the  same  county,  in  the  king's  hands  on  the  decease  of 
John  Felton,  knight,  receiving  fees  at  the  discretion  of  the  treasurer  of 
England  at  his  own  hands,  so  that  he  render  his  account  yearly  at  the 
Exchequer.  By  bill  of  the  treasurer. 

Nov.  8.        Appointment  for  life  of  the  king's  clerk  and  secretary  Master  Peter 
Westminster.  Courteney  as  master  of  the  king's  free  chapel  or  hospital  of  St.  Anthony, 
London.  By  K.  by  word  of  mouth. 

Vacated  because  otherwise  below. 
Nov,  16.        Signification  to  W.  bishop  of  Norwich  of  the  royal  assent  to  the  election 
Westminster,  of  Thomas  Pakefeld,  professor  of  theology  and  monk  of  the  monastery  of 
St.  Benet,  Hulme,  as  abbot  of  that  place.  By  p.s. 

Nov.  12.        Grant  to  John  Pemberton,  one  of  the  clerks  of  Chancery,  of  the  custody 
Westminster,  of  the  hospital  of  St.  Mary,  Osprenge,  void  by  the  death  of  Robert  Darell, 
clerk. 

Nov.  20.  Pardon  to  Richard  Franke  late  of  Kyngesbrygge,  co.  Devon,  merchant, 
Westminster,  alias  '  yoman,'  of  his  outlawries  in  the  town  of  Southampton  and  the 
county  of  Middlesex  for  not  appearing  before  John  Prysot  and  his  fellows, 
late  justices  of  the  Bench,  to  answer  John  AVyllyam,  burgess  and  merchant 
of  Southampton,  touching  a  debt  of  lo/.  and  before  Robert  Danby  and  his 
fellows,  justices  of  the  Bench  of  the  late  king,  to  satisfy  John  Lowende 
alias  Lounde,  citizen  and  '  letherseller '  of  London,  of  a  debt  of  7/.  which 
the  latter  recovered  against  him  and  26s.  8f?.  damages,  he  having  surrendered 
to  the  Flete  prison  and  the  said  John  Lowende  having  appeared  afterwards 
on  o  February,  9  Edward  IV,  by  John  Smale  his  attorney  and  acknowledged 
himself  satisfied,  as  Robert  Danby,  knight,  chief  justice  of  the  Bench,  has 
certified. 

Nov.  27.  General  pardon  to  Richard  Wydevyle  alias  Wodeville  alias  Wideville, 
Westminster,  knight,  of  all  offences  committed  by  him  before  29  October  last.       By  p.s. 

Nov.  28.  Grant,  during  pleasure,  to  the  king's  servant  John  Plummer,  knight,  of 
Westminster,  the  office  of  keeper  of  the  great  wardrobe,^with  the  accustomed  fees.   By  p.s. 

Dec.  5.         Appointment  for  life  of  the  king's  clerk  and  secretary  Master  Peter 
Westminster.  Courteney  as  master  of  the  king's  free  chapel  or  hospital  of  St.  Anthony, 
London.  By  K.  by  word  of  mouth. 

Mandate  in  pursuance  to  the  mayor  of  London. 


49  HENRY  VI. 


229 


1470.  Membrane  19 — cont, 

Dec.  16.        Grant  to  brother  Thomas  Hemyngforth,  clerk,  of  the  custody,  of  the 
AVestmiustcr.  king's  chapel  of  St.  George  within  the  king's  tower  at  the  town  of  Suth- 
anipton  and  \0l.  yearly  for  life  from  the  customs  and  subsidies  in  tlie  port 
of  the  town  for  his  salary,  to  celebrate  divine  service  in  the  chapel  for  the 
good  estate  of  the  king  and  his  consort  Margaret,  queen  of  England. 

By  K.  by  word  of  mouth. 


Membrane  18. 

Oct.  20,        Grant,  during  pleasure,  to  John  Langstrothcr,  prior  of  the  Hospital  of 
"Westminster.  St.  John  of  Jerusalem  in  England,  of  the  of&ce  of  treasurer  of  the 
Exchequer,  iu  the  same  manner  as  Walter   Hungcrford,  kuight,  late 
treasurer,  or  anyone  else  had  the  office.  [Fcedera,'\ 

By  K.  by  word  of  mouth. 

Mandate  in  pursuance  to  the  barons  of  the  Exchequer  and  the  chamber- 
lain. 

Oct.  9.         Appointment,  during  pleasure,  of  llichard  lilyngworth,  knight,  as  chief 
Westminster,  baron  of  the  Exchequer,  receiving  the  accustomed  fee.  [ivcrfcra.] 
The  like  of  the  following  : — 

John  Clerk  as  second  baron  of  the  Exchequer. 
Brian  Rouclyf  as  third  baron. 
John  Durem  as  one  of  the  barons. 

Appointment,  during  pleasure,  of  Thomas  Billyng  as  chief  ju.sticc  of  the 
King's  Bench,  receiving  the  accustomed  fee.  [fWem.] 

The  like  of  Richard  Byngham,  knight,  as  one  of  the  justices  of  the 
King's  Bench.  \_Fcedera.'] 

The  like  of  the  following : — 
William  Laken. 
Richard  Neell.' 
William  Yelverton,  knight. 
Richard  Byngham,  knight. 

Appointment,  during  pleasure,  of  Robert  Dauby,  knight,  as  chief  justice 
of  the  Bencii,  receiving  the  accustomed  fee.  \F(c(lira.\ 

Tlie  like  of  the  following  as  justices  of  the  Bench  : — 
Walter  Moyle,  knight.] 
John  Nedeham,  kuight. 
Richard  Chokkc,  knight. 
Thomas  Littelton. 
Thomas  Yonge. 

Oct.  23.        Grant,  during  pleasure,  to  Edward  Gower  of  tlie  ofllci-  of  (ron.age  and 
WestmiDstcr.  pesage  in  the  port  of  London  and  ports  and  places  adjacent,  receiving  the 
accustomed  fees.  By"  bill  of  the  treasurer. 

The  like  to  the  following  in  the  ports  named  and  ports  and  places 
adjacent : — 

Oct.  25.  John  Abbotte  iu  the  port  of  Ipswich.  By  bill  of  the  treasurer. 

Westminster. 

Nov.  22,  Richard  Dauuce  in  the  port  of  SutliamDlon.     By  bill  of  the  treasurer. 

WcBtminster. 

Nov.  25.  Richard  Sheldon  in  the  port  of  Boston.  By  bill  of  the  treasurer. 

AVestniinntur. 

Oct.  28.  John  Blanerhassct  in  the  port  of  Kyngcston  on  Hull. 

Westmiustcr.  bill  of  the  treasurer. 


230 


CALENDAR  OF  PATENT  ROLLS. 


1470. 
Oct.  23. 

Westminster. 


Oct.  25. 

AVestminster. 

Oct,  27. 
Westminster. 

Oct.  9. 
Westminster. 


Oct.  25. 
Westminster. 

Oct.  27. 
Westminster. 


Nov.  8. 
Westminster. 

Oct.  27. 

Westminster. 


Oct.  22. 

Westminster. 


Oct.  24. 

Westminster. 


Oct.  25. 

AVestmiuster. 


Oct.  23. 

Westminster. 

Oct.  23. 
Westminster. 

Oct.  30. 
Westminster. 


Membrane  18 — cont. 

Appointment,  during  pleasure,  of  John  Foveste  as  ganger  in  the  port 
of  Southampton  and  ports  and  places  adjacent,  receiving  the  accustomed 
fees.  By  bill  of  the  treasurer. 

The  like  of  the  following  in  the  ports  named  and  ports  and  places 
adjacent : — 

Edward  Ireland  in  the  port  of  Bristol.  By  bill  of  the  treasurer. 


Richard  Baron  in  the  port  of  Sandwich 


By  bill  of  the  treasurer. 


Grant,  during  pleasure,  to  Master  Henry  Sharp,  doctor  of  laws,  of  the 
office  of  notary  or  prothonotary  of  the  Chancery,  receiving  50  marks  yearly 
from  Michaelmas  last  from  the  issues  of  the  hanaper,  with  all  other  profits 
belonging  to  the  ofSce.  By  K.  by  word  of  mouth. 

Licence  for  the  prior  and  convent  of  the  monastery  of  St.  Benet,  Hulme, 
in  the  diocese  of  Norwich,  to  elect  an  abbot  in  the  place  of  John  Kevyng, 
last  abbot,  resigned.  By  p.s. 

Presentation  of  Hugh  Cleye,  chaplain,  to  the  perpetual  vicarage  of  the 
parish  church  of  Chepyng  Wycombe,  in  the  diocese  of  Lincoln,  void  by 
the  death  of  Robert  Wareyn,  last  vicar,  and  in  the  king's  gift  by  reason  of 
the  temporalities  of  the  abbey  of  Goddestowe  being  in  his  hands. 

Presentation  of  David  Miles,  chaplain,  to  the  parish  church  of  Padworth, 
in  the  diocese  of  Salisbury,  void  by  the  resignation  of  William  Bocher,  last 
parson. 

Appointment,  during  pleasure,  of  James  Lyllebourne  as  controller  of  the 
scrutiny  in  the  port  of  ]3ristol  and  ports  and  places  adjacent,  receiving  the 
accustomed  fees.  By  bill  of  the  treasurer. 

Membrane  17. 

Appointment,  during  pleasure,  of  Philip  Lowes  as  controller  of  the  great 
and  petty  custom,  the  subsidy  of  wools,  hides  and  woolfells  and  the  subsidy 
of  the  35.  in  the  tun  and  the  \2d.  in  the  pound  in  the  port  of  Southampton 
and  ports  and  places  adjacent,  receiving  the  accustomed  fees,  provided  that 
he  execute  the  office  in  person,  with  the  custody  of  one  part  of  the  coket 
seal.  By  bill  of  the  treasurer. 

The  like  of  the  following  in  the  poits  named  and  ports  and  places 
adjacent : — 

Christopher  Wylkynson  in  the  port  of  Bishop's  Lynne. 

By  bill  of  the  treasurer. 

Daniel  Sheldon  in  the  port  of  Bristol.  By  bill  of  the  treasurer. 

Richard  Houton  in  the  ports  of  Piymmouth  and  Fowey. 

By  bill  of  the  treasurer. 

Richard  Hyde  in  the  port  of  Boston.  By  bill  of  the  treasurer. 

John  Mompesson  in  the  port  of  Pole.  By  bill  of  the  treasurer. 

Alexander  Dykes  in  the  port  of  Ipswich.         By  bill  of  the  treasurer. 

Matthew  Crofte  in  the  port  of  Newcastle-on-Tyne. 

By  bill  of  the  treasurer. 

John  Lambe  in  the  port  of  Briggewater.         By  bill  of  the  treasurer. 

Robert  Knyght  in  the  port  of  Kyngeston  on  Hull. 

By  bill  of  the  treasurer. 


49  HENRY  VI. 


231 


1470. 
Not.  8. 

Westminster. 

Oct.  30. 
Westminster. 

Oct.  26. 

Westminster. 

Oct.  24. 
Westminster. 

Nov.  9. 
Westminster. 

Dec.  11. 
Westminster. 

Dec.  13. 

Westminster. 


1471. 

Jan.  14. 
Westminster. 


1470. 

Dec.  3. 
Westminster. 

Dec.  10. 
Westminster. 

Dec.  13. 
Westminster. 


Membrane  17 — cont. 
J ohn  Nest  in  the  port  of  Sandwich. 


By  bill  of  the  treasurer. 


Dec.  20. 

Westminster. 


Edmund  Wydewell  in  the  port  of  Yermouth. 

By  bill  of  the  treasurer. 

Hugh  Warde  in  the  ports  of  Exeter  and  Dertmouth. 

By  bill  of  the  treasurer. 

Tiie  like  of  Ricbard  Passemer  as  controller  of  the  petty  custom  and  the 
subsidy  of  the  3^.  in  the  tun  and  the  12J.  in  the  pound  in  the  port  of 
London  and  ports  and  places  adjacent.  By  bill  of  the  treasurer. 

The  like  of  John  Delves  as  controller  of  the  great  custom  and  the 
subsidy  of  wools,  hides  and  wood-fells  in  the  same. 

By  bill  of  the  treasurer. 

Licence  for  the  prioress  and  convent  of  Wilton  to  elect  an  abbess  in  the 
place  of  Edith  Borgh,  late  abbess,  deceased.  By  p.s. 

Appointment,  until  13  June  next,  of  William  Stoughton,  clerk  and 
purveyor  of  the  oCBcc  of  the  eatery  of  the  household,  to  purvey  sea  fish 
and  other  necessaries  for  the  expenses  of  the  household. 

By  bill  of  the  treasurer  of  the  household. 

Signification  to  R.  bishop  of  Salisbury  of  the  royal  assent  to  the  eleclion 
of  Dame  Alice  Comelande,  late  sacristan  and  uun  of  the  monastery  of 
Wilton,  as  abbess  of  that  place.  By  p.s. 

Membrane  16. 

General  pardon  to  Thomas  Pyncheon  of  Little  Wakeryng,  co.  Essex, 
esquire,  and  Elizabeth  his  wife  of  all  offences  committed  by  them  before 
17  November.  By  p.s. 

Grant  to  the  king's  clerk  William  Townc,  the  king's  almoner,  of  all  goods 
and  chattels  of  felons  dc  se  and  dcodauds  in  augmentation  of  the  king's 
alms,    [i'tt't/em.]  By  K.  by  word  of  mouth. 

Licence  for  Robert  CliflHton,  knight,  Richard  AVillughby,  esquire,  Thomas 
Alestre  of  Notyngham,  John  Fitzherbert,  Geoffrey  Staunton,  Thom.is  Tu, 
clerk,  and  William  Luc  and  the  heins,  assigns,  executors  of  the  will  and 
admiuistrators  of  the  goods  of  the  .said  Richard  to  found  a  perpetual 
chantry  of  one  chaplain  to  celebrate  divine  service  daily  at  the  high  altar  in 
the  parish  church  of  St.  Leonard,  Wollaton,  co.  Nottingham,  for  the  good 
estate  of  the  said  Richard  and  for  his  soul  after  death,  to  l)e  called  '  Wilhighby 
Chauntcry,'  and  for  them  to  grant  in  mortmain  to  the  5aid  chaplain  two 
houses  lately  built  by  the  said  Richard  in  the  town  of  Wollaton  by  the 
rectory,  one  for  his  own  dwelling  and  the  other  for  the  dwelling  of  three 
poor  persons,  and  a  close  containing  an  acre  of  laud  by  the  said  rectory 
and  other  lands,  rents,  services,  reversion.s,  annuities  and  possessions,  not 
held  in  chief,  to  the  value  of  10/.  yearly,  for  his  sustenance  and  the 
performance  of  certain  works  of  piety. 

By  p.s.  and  for  30/.  paid  in  the  banaper. 

Exemplification,  at  the  request  of  John  Langstrothcr,  prior  of  the 
Hospital  of  St.  John  of  Jerusalem  in  England,  of  the  tenors  of  the 
enrolments  of  the  following  :— 

1.  Memorandum  that  on  18  November,  9  Edward  IV.  Miles  Skayff 
and  Marniadukc  Lomelcy,  brethren  and  i)receptors  of  the  hosi)ilal, 
Robert  Bally,  sub-prior  of  the  lio'^pital,  and  .John  Gicne  and 
Thomas  Erlyche,  brethren  and  chaplains  of  the  hospital,  presented  the 
■said  John  Langstrothcr,  bailiff  of  Eagle  (Arjuilc)  and  steward  of  the 


232 


CALENDAR  OF  PATENT  ROLLS. 


1470.  Membrane  \  Q—cont. 

grand  master  of  Rhodes,  to  the  king  in  a  chamber  within  his  palace  at 
Westminster  as  their  prior  unanimously  elected  on  the  death  of 
Robert  Botill,  last  prior,  and  the  king  admitted  him  as  prior  and 
he  made  fealty  to  the  king. 

Vacated  by  command  of  the  king  cn  16  November,  49  Henry  VI. 
2.  Memorandum  that  on  20  October,  49  Henry  VI.  Miles  SkayfE  and 
Marmaduke  Lomley,  brethren  and  preceptors,  and  Robert  Bayly, 
sub-prior,  presented  the  said  John  as  prior  to  the  king  in  a  chamber 
within  the  palace  of  Thomas,  bishop  of  London,  at  London,  asserting 
that  no  prior  made  fealty  until  Leonard  de  Tybertys,  late  pi'ior, 
made  fealty  to  Edward  III.  under  protest  that  it  should  be  without 
prejudice,  and  the  king  admitted  the  said  John  as  prior  and  he  made 
fealty  to  the  king.  [Fcedera.l 

Membrane  15. 

Dec.  18.  Grant,  during  office,  to  John  Plummer,  knight,  to  whom  the  king  lately 
Westminster,  granted  the  office  of  keeper  of  the  great  wardrobe  by  letters  patent,  of 
the  sum  of  1,353/.  16s.  yearly  from  Michaelmas  last  for  the  expenses  of  the 
wardrobe,  viz.  100/.  from  the  issues  of  the  counties  of  Bedford  and 
Buckingham,  40Z.  from  the  issues  of  the  counties  of  Cambridge  and  Hunt- 
ingdon, 50  marks  from  the  issues  of  the  counties  of  Essex  and  Hertford, 
4t7.  from  the  issues  of  the  county  of  Kent,  300/.  from  the  farm  and  other 
issues  of  the  counties  of  London  and  Middlesex,  201.  from  the  issues  of 
the  county  of  Northampton,  200  marks  from  the  issues  of  the  counties 
of  Norfolk  and  Suffolk,  40  marks  from  the  issues  of  the  counties  of 
Oxford  and  Berks,  40  marks  from  the  issues  of  the  counties  of  Surrey 
and  Sussex,  40/.  from  the  issues  of  the  county  of  Southampton,  40/. 
from  the  issues  of  the  county  of  Wilts,  40/.  from  the  farm  of  the  town 
of  Cambridge,  60/.  from  the  farm  of  the  manor  of  Berton  Bristol  and 
the  hundred  of  Berton  Bristol,  co.  Gloucester,  at  the  hands  of  Henry, 
duke  of  Warwick,  and  his  heirs  or  the  sheriff  of  the  county,  24/,  from 
the  custody  of  the  manor  of  Gedyngton,  co.  Northampton,  50  marks  from 
the  farm,  of  the  town  of  Northampton,  8/.  12c?.  from  the  farm  of  the 
seven  hundreds  of  Cokeham  and  Bray,  co.  Berks,  lOU/.  from  the  farm  of 
the  king's  manors  and  lordships  of  Cokeham  and  Bray,  co.  Berk.s,  40/.  from 
the  farm  of  the  manor  of  Hedyngton  with  the  hundred  of  Bolyngden 
witliout  the  north  gate  of  Oxford,  at  the  hands  of  William  Wilcotes, 
esquire,  and  his  heirs  or  the  sheriff  of  the  county,  30/.  from  tlie  farm  of  the 
town  of  Shrewsbury,  co.  Salop,  12/.  from  the  fee  farm  of  the  manor 
of  Forde,  co.  Salop,  at  the  hands  of  Nicholas  de  Audeley,  brother  and 
heir  of  Thomas,  son  and  heir  of  James  de  Audeley,  or  the  sheriff  of 
llic  county,  30/.  from  the  fee  farm  of  the  town  of  Worcester,  20/. 
from  the  farm  of  the  manor  of  Malmcsbury  at  the  hands  of  the  abbot 
and  convent  of  Malmesbury,  12/.  8.5.  4d.  from  the  custody  of  the  manor 
of  Merston  Meysy,  co.  Wilts,  116  maiks  from  the  farm  of  the  king's 
lordship  or  manor  of  Coshnm,  co.  Wihs,  50  marks  from  the  extent  or  farm 
of  the  manor  of  Wyrardesbury,  co.  Buckingham,  and  50  marks  at  the  hands 
of  the  abbot,  prior  and  convent  of  St.  Albans  for  the  voidance  of  that  abbey 
and  its  temporalities,  with  priority  of  payment.  By  p.s. 

Nov.  25.  Grant,  during  pleasure,  to  Baldwin  Hyde,  one  of  the  clerks  of  Chancery, 
Westminster,  of  the  otiice  of  clerk  of  Parliament  with  the  accustomed  fees.  By  p.s. 

Dec.  18.        Grant  to  the  said  Bahhviii  of  40/.  yearly  from  Michaelmas  last  from  the 
Westmiuster.  issues  of  tlie  hauaper  so  long  as  he  remain  in  the  said  office  of  clerk  of 
Parliament.  By  p.s. 


49  HENRY  VI. 


233 


1470.  Membrane  15 — cont. 

Dec.  18.       Ratification  of  the  estate  of  the  said  Baldwin  as  canon  and  prebendary 
Westmiuster.  of  the  king's  free  chapel  or  college  of  St.  Mary  and  SS.  George  the 
Martyr  and  Edward  the  Confessor  within  the  castle  of  Wyndcsorc. 

By  p.s. 


3IEMBRANE  14. 

Dec.  18.  Grant  to  John  Smeethe,  clerk,  of  the  custody  of  the  house  or  hospital  of 
Westminster.  St.  Mary  of  Betheleni  without  Bisshopisgatc,  London, 

By  K.  by  word  of  mouth. 

Vacated  because  otherwise  below, 

Dec.  7.        Grant  to  the  king's  uterine  brother  Jasper,  earl  of  Pembroke,  of  the  free 
Westminster,  disposition  of  the  advowsoii.  of  the  parish  church  of  Meyvode  in  the 
lordship  of  Powys,  in  the  diocese  of  St.  Asaph,  at  its  next  voidance. 

By  K.  by  word  of  mouth. 

Dee.  18.  Grant  for  life  to  John  Smeethe,  clerk,  of  the  custody  of  the  house  or 
Westminster,  hospital  of  St.  Mary  of  Bethelem  without  Bisshopisgatc,  London. 

By  K.  by  word  of  mouth. 

Dec.  20.  Grant,  during  pleasure,  to  the  king's  .servant  John  Swynarton  of  the 
Westminster,  office  of  ranger  of  the  king's  forest  of  Cank  alias  the  office  of  ranger  and 
bow-bearer  of  the  hays  of  Aller-.vas  and  Teddeley  Iley,  Chisteleyn  Hayc  and 
Gavley  and  the  custody  of  the  forest  of  Cannock,  co.  Stafford,  receiving  the 
accustomed  fees  from  the  issues  of  the  county  of  Stafford,  in  the  same 
manner  as  Richard  de  Hampton  had  in  the  time  of  Edward  IH.  or  Thomas 
Bate  of  the  gift  of  the  present  king.  By  K.  by  word  of  mouth. 

Dec.  19.  Grant,  during  office,  to  John,  bishop  of  Coventry  and  Lichfield,  who  has 
AVestminster.  been  keeper  of  the  i)rivy  seal  from  24  October  last,  of  205.  daily  from  that 
date,  viz.  98/.  Us.  8(1,  yearly  from  the  issues  'of  thc_county  of  Lincoln,  40/. 
yearly  from  the  issues  of  the  counties  of  Nottingham  and  Derby,  .S3/.  6*.  8c?. 
yearly  from  the  issues  of  the  counti(,'s  of  Bedford  and  Buckingham, 
50/.  yearly  from  the  farm  or  issuetj,  subsidies  and  ulnagcs  of  cloth  in 
town  and  suburbs  of  Bristol  and  ii  moiety  of  the  forfeitui  es  of  (he  same, 
46/.  13s.  4f/.  yearly  from  the  farm  or  issues  of  the  subsidy  and  ulnage  of 
cloth  in  the  county  of  Wilts  and  the  city  of  Sali.sbury  and  a  moiety  of  the 
forfeiture  of  the  same,  6G/.  l'3s.  Ad.  yearly  from  tiie  farm  oC  the  city  of 
Winchester,  and  30/.  yearly  from  the  farm  and  increment  of  the  town  of 
Cambridge,  payable  at  Easter  and  Michaelnuis,  with  provision  for  payment 
at  that  date  up  till  tiie  day  of  his  departure  from  oiUce,  By  i).s. 

Grant,  during  pleasure,  (o  (he  king's  kinsman  Richard,  earl  of  AVarwick 
and  Salisbury,  of  the  office  of  admiral  of  England,  Ireland  and  Aquitaine, 
with  the  accustomed  fees,  with  divers  specilicd  powers.  {^Fccdcra.^ 

IMandato  to  (he  escheator  in  tlie  counties  of  Southampton  and  AVilts  for 
the  restitution  of  the  temporalides  of  the  abljcy  of  Wilton,  of  the  order  of 
St.  Benedict,  to  Dame  Alice  Comcland,  nun  of  the  monastery,  whose  election 
as  abbess  E.  bishop  of  Salisbury  has  confirmed,  and  whose  fealty  (he  king 
has  ordered  to  be  taken  by  William  Ive,  clerk.  By  i).s. 

The  like  to  the  cscheators  in  the  following  counties  : — 
Somerset  and  Dorset. 
Devon  and  Cornwall. 
Writ  de  intcndendo  in  pursuuncc  to  the  tenants. 
Jan.  25.        Grant,  duiiug  pleasure,  to  John  Walter,  clerk,  of  the  custody  or  olllcc 
Westmiuster.  of  keeper  of  the  hauapcr  of  Chancery,  receiving  the  accustomed  fees. 

By  p.s. 


1471. 

fJan.  2. 

Westmiuster 


Jan.  17. 

Westminster. 


234 


CALENDAR  OF  PATENT  ROLLS. 


1471.  IIembrane  13. 

Jan.  11.        Grant  to  Master  Edward  Underwode,  scholar  in  theology,  of  the  prebend 
Westminster,  of  Underdoun  in  the  collegiate  church  of  St.  Mary  Magdalen,  Bruggenorth, 
CO.  Salop,  By  p.s. 

Mandate  in  pursuance  to  the  dean  of  the  said  church. 

Jan.  11.        Appointment,  during  pleasure,  of  William  Water  as  bailiff  of  the  king's 
Westmiustor.  lordships  of  Cokeham  and  Bray,  receiving  the  accustomed  fees  at  his  own 
hands.  By  K.  by  word  of  mouth. 

Jan.  25.       General  pardon  to  Master  Robert  Stillyngton,  bishop  of  Bath  and  Wells, 
Westminster,  dean  of  the  king's  free  chapel  of  St.  Martin  le  Grand,  London,  late  keeper 
of  the  privy  seal,  of  all  offences  committed  by  him  before  18  January. 

By  p.s. 

•  Jan.  27.  Pardon  to  Edmund  Warter,  late  of  the  household  of  Edward  Avho  lately 
Westminster,  called  himself  king  of  England,  esquire,  and  Thomas  Scarlet  of  the  town 
of  Westminster,  co.  Middlesex,  '  yoman,'  pledges  of  William  Pancok  late 
of  Westminster,  '  yoman,'  late  of  the  said  household,  of  certain  sums 
required  from  the  said  William  amounting  to  71.  6s.  Sd.  viz.  100s.  for 
certain  trespasses  of  which  he  was  indicted,  40.?.  for  certain  trespasses  of 
which  he  was  impeached  by  return  of  Simon  Smyth  and  William  Heriot, 
late  sheriffs  of  Middlesex,  and  6s.  8d.  for  certain  trespasses  of  which  he 
was  indicted,  as  appears  in  the  Exchequer.  By  K.  by  word  of  mouth. 

Jan.  27.        Ratification  of  the  estate  which  John  Faukes,  king's  clerk,  has  as 
Westminster,  warden  or  dean  of  the  king's  free  chapel  or  college  of  St.  Mary  and 
SS.  George  the  Martyr  and  Edward  the  Confessor  within  the  ^castle  of 
Wyndesore.  By  K.  by  word  of  mouth. 

Jan.  28.        Grant,  during  pleasure,  to  the  king's  servitor  John  Lowas,  one  of  the 
Westminster,  yeoman  of  the  crown,  of  the  office  of  parker  or  keeper  of  the  new  park 
below  the  king's  castle  of  Wyndesore,  with  wages  of  id.  daily  from  the 
fee-farm  of  the  town  of  New  Wyndesore  and  all  other  profits. 

By  K.  by  word  of  mouth. 

Jan.  29.        Protection  with  clause  volunms,  for  one  year,  for  Robert  Richard  of  the 
Westminster,  city  of  London,  '  mercer,'  alias  merchant,  going  to  Ireland  on  the  king's 
service  in  the  company  of  the  king's  kinsman  George,  duke  of  Clarence, 
lieutenant  of  Ireland,  on  the  safe-custody,  defence  and  victualliag  of  that 
land.  By  bill  of  p.s. 

1470. 

Dec.  10.        Grant,  during  office,  to  Thomas  Billyng,  chief  justice  of  the  King's 
Westminster.  Bench,  of  40  marks  yearly  from  9  October  last  from  the  issues  of  the 
hanaper  and  a  tun  of  wine  yearly  at  ChriMtmas  in  the  port  of  London  at 
the  hands  of  the  chief  butler  of  England  or  his  deputy  there. 

13y  K.  by  word  of  mouth. 

1471. 

Jan.  30.        Presentation  of  Master  John  Courteys,  curate  of  the  parish  church' of 
Westminster.  Cattestoke,  in  the  diocese  of  Salisbury,  to  the  parish  church  of  High  Ongre, 
in  the  diocese  of  Loudon,  on  an  exchange  of  benefices  with  Richard  Lake. 

By  p.s. 

Feb  1.  Grant,  during  pleasure,  to  the  king's  servitor  William  Fyler  of  the  oflSce 
Westminster,  of  water-bailiff  of  the  town  of  Bristol,  with  the  accustomed  fees. 

By  K.  by  word  of  mouth. 

Jan.  18.        Ratification  of  the  estate  which  John  Spence,  clerk,  has  as  chaplain  of 
Westminster,  the  chapel  or  chantry  of  Holy  Cross  within  the  king's  castle  of  Old  Sarum, 
CO.  Wilts. 

Feb,  4.         Grant  for  life  to  the  king's  kinsman  George,  duke  of  Clarence,  that  he 
Westminster,  shall  have  all  charters,  letters  patent  and  writs  in  chancery  and  other  courts 
of  the  king  quit  of  fee  or  fine.  By  p.s. 


0 


49  HENRY  VI. 


235 


1471.  Membrane  13 — cont. 

Feb.  5.        Grant  to  the  king's  clerk  William  Towne,  the  king's  almoner,  of  all 
Westminster,  goods  and  chattels  of  felons  de  se  and  deodands  in  augmentation  of  the 
king's  alms.  By  K.  by  word  of  mouth. 

Feb.  1 .         Grant,  during  good  behaviour,  to  Thomas  Hunt  of  the  offices  of  clerk  and 
Westminster,  surveyor  of  the  king's  works  within  the  realm,  with  all  fees,  liveries  of 
vestures,  furs  and  linings  of  *  tertren,'  houses,  '  storehouses,'  plots  and 
reasonable  expenses,  in  the  same  manner  as  William  Clyve  or  anyone  else 
Avho  had  the  offices.  By  p.s. 


1470. 

Dec.  22. 

Westminster. 


Dec.  28. 
Westminster. 


1471. 

Jan.  3. 
Westminster. 


1470. 

Dec.  17. 
Westminster. 


1471. 

Jan.  3. 

Westminster. 


1470. 

Dec.  21. 
Westminster. 


1471. 

Feb.  4. 
Westminster. 

Feb.  11. 
Westminster. 

Feb.  13. 
Westminster. 


Membuane  12. 

Grant,  during  pleasure,  to  Richard  George,  esquire,  of  the  office  of 
keeper  of  all  swans  in  the  Thames  from  the  town  of  Graveshende  to 
Cicestre  with  all  members  and  creeks  of  that  river,  with  fees  as  in  the  last  year 
of  Edward  III.  and  the  first  of  Richard  II.  By  K.  by  word  of  mouth. 

Grant  to  Richard  de  Veer,  son  of  John  de  Veer,  earl  of  Oxford, 
deceased,  of  the  free  chapels  of  Eytou  and  Tiiornebury,  co.  Bedford,  in  the 
king's  gift  by  the  death  of  William  de  la  Zouche,  knight,  and  the  minority 
of  John  his  son  and  heir.  By  K.  by  word  of  mouth. 

Grant  to  the  king's  clerk  Master  Ralph  IMakerell,  chancellor  of  the  king's 
consort,  of  the  prebend  in  the  king's  free  chapel  of  St.  Stephen  within  the 
palace  of  Westminster  void  by  the  death  of  John  Wylly.  By  p.s. 

Vacated  because  elsewhere  below. 

Writ  de  intcndendo  for  the  king's  kinsman  Richard,  carl  of  Warwick  and 
Salisbury,  appointed  admiral  of  England. 

Ratification  of  the  estate  which  William  Broun,  clerk,  has  as  master  or 
warden  of  the  hospital  or  house  of  St.  John  Baptist,  Dorchestre,  and 
master  of  the  house  or  chapel  called  '  le  priory  liermitago '  by  Dorcestre, 
CO.  Dorset.  By  K.  by  word  of  mouth. 

Grant  to  the  king's  clerk  Master  Ralph  MakereH,  chancellor  of  the 
king's  consort,  of  the  prebend  in  the  king's  free  chapel  of  St.  Stephen 
within  the  palace  of  Westminster,  void  by  the  death  of  John  Wylly. 

By  p.s. 

Mandate  in  pursuance  to  the  dean  and  chapter. 

Grant,  during  pleasure,  to  Alan  Stery  of  the  office  of  constable  of  the 
king's  castle  of  Shrewsbury  and  the  custody  of  the  castle  and  the  gaol  of 
the  castle  and  the  prisoners  therein,  and  7^d.  daily  for  his  wages  as  in  the 
great  roll  of  34  Edward  III.  and  the  great  roll  of  12  Richard  II.  from  the 
fee  farm  of  the  town  of  Shrewsbury,  with  all  other  profits. 

By  K.  by  word  ofjmoulh. 

Ratification  of  the  estate  which  William  Forden  has  as  chaplain,  master 
or  warden  of  the  hospital  of  St.  James  by  Cicestre,  co.  Sussex,  and  grant 
to  him  of  the  hospital  for  life.  By  K.  by  word  of  mouth. 

Licence  for  the  prior  and  convent  of  Cerne  to  elect  an  abbot  in  the  place 
of  John,  last  abbot,  deceased.  By  p.s. 

Pardon  to  John  Dynham,  lord  Dynham,  alias  John  Dyneham  of  Dyneham, 
alias  John  Dyuuni  of  Caerdynan,  alias  John  Dynham  late  of  Nuttewyll, 
CO.  Devon,  esquire,  late  sheriff  of  Devon,  of  all  offences  committed  by  him 
before  12  February  last,  all  alienations  and  perquisitions  of  lands  without 


23a 


CALENDAR  OF  PATENT  ROLLS. 


1471. 


Feb.  13. 

Westminster. 


Feb.  14. 
Westminster. 


Feb.  15. 

Westminster. 


31embrane  12 — cont. 

licence,  all  entries  into  his  inheritance  without  clue  livery,  and  all  fines, 
issues,  debts,  accounts  and  arrears  due  to  the  king  before  that  date- 
By  p.s. 

Grant  to  J  ohn  Crecy,  canon  and  prebendary  of  St.  Jolin  in  the  collegiate 
church  of  St.  Maiy,  Warwick,  of  a  canonry  and  prebend  in  the  king's  free 
chapel  or  college  of  St.  George  within  the  castle  of  Wyndesore,  on  an 
exchange  of  benefices  with  Clement  Smyth.         By  K.  by  word  of  mouth. 

Mandate  in  pursuance  to  the  warden  or  dean  and  president  of  the  said 
free  chapel  or  college. 

Grant  to  Damiauus  de  Peyso^  born  in  Genoa,  and  the  heirs  of  his  body 
of  letters  of  denization.  By  p.s.  and  for  40*.  paid  in  the  hunaper. 

Grant  for  life  to  the  king's  uterine  brother  Jasper,  earl  of  Pembroke,  of 
the  office  of  constable  of  the  king's  castle  of  Gloucestre  with  a  meadow 
called  '  Kyngesmede '  by  the  castle  and  a  profit  called  '  Castelcoule ' 
pertaining  to  the  office,  with  all  fees  and  other  emoluments.  By  p.s. 

Grant  for  life  to  William  Lylbourne  of  all  lands  and  tenements  late  of 
Thomas  Soules  in  the  Hough  in  Stanfordam,  co.  Northumberland,  forfeited 
by  the  latter,  of  the  yearly  value  of  30s.  as  appears  in  the  Exchequer,  31*. 
free  rent  in  UUeston  by  Haukwell,  co.  Northumberland,  and  a  tenement  in 
Ligowe  called  'the  pasturesfeld '  in  the  same  county,  of  the  yearly  value 
of  Is.  in  the  king's  hands  after  the  decease  of  John  Felton,  knight,  and  the 
farm  and  rent  of  the  town  or  lordship  of  Newebygging  by  Wodehorne, 
CO.  Northumberland,  of  the  yearly  value  of  10/.  6^.  in  the  king's  hands  by 
the  forfeiture  of  John  Balliall,  late  king  of  Scots,  in  the  same  manner  as 
William  Erington,  esquire,  deceased,  held  them.  By  p.s. 


Membrane  1L 

Feb.  16.  Licence  for  Thomas  Banyell,  William  Elmet,  Henry  Raynold,  John 
We»tiuiuster.  Beale,  John  Haydon,  Thomas  Reed,  Thomas  Warwild,  Thomas  Greue, 
John  Lowes,  William  Micliell,  William  Hoode  and  Nicholas  Sewall, 
freemen  of  the  mistery  of  dyers  of  the  city  of  London,  to  found  a  fraternity 
or  perpetual  gild  of  two  guardians  and  the  commonalty  of  freemen  of  the 
mistery  of  dyers  dwelling  within  the  city  and  suburbs  of  London  from  the 
said  freemen  and  others  who  may  wish  to  be  of  the  said  fraternity. 
The  said  guardians  and  commonalty  shall  form  a  body  corporate  with 
power  of  acquiring  in  perpetuity  lands,  rents,  services  and  other  possessions 
and  shall  have  perpetual  succession  and  a  common  seal,  and  the  said 
commonalty,  viz.  the  freemen  of  the  mistery,  whenever  they  please  shall 
elect  two  guardians  to  support  tiie  business  and  matters  touching  the  said 
mistery  or  fraternity  and  to  rule  the  said  commonalty  and  mistery  and  all 
men  practising  the  same  and  their  servants,  works  and  merchandise  within 
the  said  city  and  suburbs,  and  the  guardians  and  commonalty  shall  make 
reasonable  ordinances  for  the  governance  of  the  mistery.  And  the  said 
guardians  aud  commonalty  shall  have  scrutiny  and  supervision  of  all  works 
and  merchandise  pertaining  to  the  mistery  in  the  city  and  suburbs  and 
within  20  miles  of  the  city,  with  power  of  forfeiture,  and  of  every  such 
forfeiture  within  the  city  and  suburbs  one  moiety  shall  be  to  the  use  of 
the  citizens  and  the  other  to  the  use  of  the  guardians  and  commonalty,  and 
of  every  such  forfeiture  without  the  city  and  suburbs  one  moiety  shall  be 
to  the  use  of  the  king  and  the  other  to  the  use  of  the  guardians  and 
commonalty.  And  grant  to  the  guardians  and  commonalty  of  licence  to 
acquire  in  mortmain,  after  inquisition,  lands,  tenements  and  rents  to  the 
value  of  10/.  yearly.  By  p.s.  and  for  40/.  paid  in  the  hanaper. 


49  HENRY  VI. 


237 


14*7  Membrane  11 — cont. 

Feb.  21.  Grant  to  Judoc  de  Pudenbrook,  chaplain,  born  in  the  diocese  of 
Westminster.  Touruay,  of  letters  of  denization. 

By  p.s.  and  for  Qs.  8d.  paid  in  the  hauaper. 

Feb.  22.        Exemplification,  at  the  request  of  John  Convers,  esquire,  of  llie  tenour  of 
Westminster,  the  enrolment  of  letters  patent  dated  17  October,  39  Henry  VI,  appointing 
him  one  of  the  king's  Serjeants  at  arms  in  the  place  of  Thomas  Pope, 
deceased.    These  letters  have  been  lost  by  accident,  as  he  has  taken  oath  in 
Chancery,  and  they  will  be  surrendered  if  found. 

Feb.  22.        Grant  for  life  to  John  Hyde,  esquire,  of  the  office  of  one  of  the  king's 
Westi&iiiuter.  Serjeants  at  arras  and  I2d.  daily  for  his  wages  from  the  issues  of  the  county 
of  Gloucester  from  8  December  last,  from  which  time  he  has  occupied  the 
office,  and  a  vesture  of  livery  of  the  household  as  other  esquires  of  the 
household  have  yearly  at  Christmas  at  the  great  wardrobe.  By  p.s. 

Feb.  22.  Grant  for  life  to  the  king's  servitor  John  Bagot,  one  of  the  clerks  of 
Westmiuster.  Chancery,  of  the  office  of  one  of  the  clerks  of  the  crown  in  Chancery  which 
William  Rous,  decea.^ed,  had  of  the  king's  grant,  with  all  profits,  and  20/. 
yearly  from  Easter  last  from  the  issues  of  the  hauaper  and  a  livery  of 
vesture  and  fur  as  the  said  William  or  Richard  Sturgeon,  late  one  of  the 
clerks  of  the  crown  aforesaid,  had,  yearly  at  Christmas  and  Whitsuntide  at  the 
hands  of  the  keeper  of  the  hanaper  or  the  keeper  of  the  great  wardrobe. 

By  p.s. 


MEMBnANEH  10  ami  9. 

Feb.  13.        Inspexiinus  of  letters  patent  dated  1  October,  9  Henry  VI,  inspecting 
Westminster,  and  confirming  to  the  merchants  of  Almain  a  charter  dated  at  Westminster, 
25  November,  1  Henry  V,  inspecting  and  confirming  Icttgrs  patent  dated 
24  October,  1  Henry  iV,  inspecting  and  confirming  letters  patent  dated 
G  November,  1  Richard  II,  inspecting  and  confirming  the  following  : — 

1.  A  charter  dated  at  Windsor,  1  February,  31  Edward  I.  [Charter 

Boll,  31  Edward  I.  No.  44], 

2.  A  charter  dated  at  Westminster,  14  March,  1  Edward  III.  [Charter 

Roll,  Henry  III.  No  75],  inspecting  and  confirming  a  charter  dated 
at  Windsor,  7  December,  11  Edward  II. 

and  grant  to  the  merchants  of  the  city  of  Cologne  in  Almain,  who  have  and 
in  times  past  have  had  among  other  merchants  of  Almain  the  house  in  the 
city  of  London  commonly  called,  '  Guyhllialla  Thcutonicorum,'  that  from 
10  October  last  for  five  years  throughout  the  realm  of  England  and  other 
places  subject  to  the  king  they  may  use  and  enjoy  all  the  privileges,  immuni- 
ties, quittances  and  customs  and  other  things  .specified  in  the  said  charters. 
And  grant  to  them  that  during  that  time  they  and  their  factors,  attorneys 
and  servants  shall  be  tpiit  of  all  subsidies  granted  to  the  king  for  their  persons 
or  for  all  goods  and  merchandise  brought  by  them  into  or  out  of  the  realm, 
.saving  to  the  king  his  ancient  rights  and  customs.  By  p.s. 


Membrane  9 — cont. 

Feb.  16.  Grant,  during  office,  to  John  Plummcr,  knight,  to  whom  the  kinf 
Westiiiiuster.  lately  granted  the  office  of  keeper  of  tlie  great  wardrobe  by  letters 
patent,  of  the  sum  of  220/.  6*.  Qd.  yearly  from  Michaelmas  last  for  tlic 
expenses  of  the  wardrobe,  viz.  50  marks  at  the  hands  of  the  abbot,  prior 
and  convent  of  St.  Augustine's,  Canterbury,  for  a  release  made  to  them  of 
a  certain  sum  which  they  used  to  render  at  each  voidanco  of  the  abbey, 
45/.  from  the  custody  of  the  manors  of  Benstcde  and  Walton  alias 
Wanton  with  the  park  and  warren,  and  all  lands  in  Charlwode,  co.  Surrey,  16/. 
from  the  custody  of  the  manor  of  Polstcdchall  in  Brounham,  co,  Norfolk, 


238 


1471.  Membrane  9 — cont, 

which  Louis  Robessard,  lord  of  Bourgehier,  deceased,  held  for  life  of  the 
grant  of  Henry  V,  36/.  from  a  rent  pertaining  to  the  castle  of  Rochester 
payable  at  the  feast  of  St.  Andrew  and  certain  other  issues  pertaining  to 
the  castle,  30/.  from  the  fiirm  of  the  king's  manors  and  lordships  of 
Cokeham  and  Uray,  co.  Berks,  30/.  from  the  farm  and  issues  of  the  subsidy 
and  ulnage  of  cloth  in  the  counties  of  Oxford  and  Berks  and  a  moiety  of  the 
forfeiture  of  the  same,  and  30/.  yearly  from  the  like  in  the  counties  of 
Somerset  aud  Dorset,  with  preference  of  payment.  By  p.s. 


Membrane  8. 

Feb,  22.  Ordinance,  on  account  of  the  dissensions  between  the  citizens  of  York, 
Westminster,  for  the  election  of  a  mayor  of  the  city  in  the  following  manner.  On 
the  vigil  of  St.  Gregory  next  the  sheriffs  of  the  city  shall  summon  all 
the  searchers  of  every  mistery  within  tlie  city  and  liberty  to  cause  all  the 
workers  of  their  misteries  to  appear  personally  in  the  Guildhall  of  the 
city  on  the  following  day  for  the  election  of  a  mayor  for  the  year  following 
1  April  next ;  and  the  workers  thus  assembled  shall  nominate  two  aldermen 
of  the  city,  neither  of  whom  shall  have  been  twice  mayor  or  mayor  for  four 
years  previously,  and  the  names  of  these  shall  be  presented  in  writing  to 
he  aldermen  and  council  by  the  recorder,  the  senior  sheriff  and  the 
common  clerk.  Each  alderman  aud  councillor  shall  then  secretly  declare 
his  choice  of  the  two  to  the  said  recorder,  sheriff  and  clerk,  and  the  one  of 
the  two  with  most  votes  shall  be  declared  elected  mayor  for  the  year 
aforesaid,  the  senior  clerk  chosing  in  case  of  equality ;  and  if  he  shall  die 
or  quit  office  within  the  year  the  other  shall  be  mayor  for  the  remainder  of 
the  year  or  another  alderman  shall  be  elected  as  above  at  the  discretion 
of  the  aldermen  and  councillors.  A  nd  on  1  April  at  the  tenth  hour  before 
noon  the  mayor  elect  shall  take  the  accustomed  oath  before  the  citizens  in 
the  Guildhall  and  the  aldermen  and  citizens  shall  swear  to  assist  him.  And 
in  future  years  the  election  shall  be  made  in  the  same  manner,  except  that 
the  existing  mayor  shall  summon  the  searchers  and  shall  choose'  in  case 
of  equality,  and  each  successive  mayor  shall  remain  in  office  until  1  April, 
and  anyone  who  siiall  take  upon  himself  or  occupy  the  office  of  mayoralty 
without  such  election  shall  forfeit  the  sum  of  100/.,  one  moiety  to  the  king 
and  the  other  moiety  to  the  use  of  the  city.  [Rolls  of  Parliament,  v. 
455.]  By  pet.  in  Parliament. 

Feb.  21.        Exemplification,  at  the  request  of  the  abbess  and  convent  of  the  monastery 
Westminster,  of  St.  Saviour  aud  SS.  Mary  and  Bi'idget,  Syon,  co.  Middlesex,  of  the  order 
of  St.  Augustine,  of  the  tenours  of  the  following  : — 

1.  A  petition  (English)  of  the  said  abbess  and  convent  in  Parliament  at 

Westminster,  26  November  last,  that  no  statute  or  act  of  resumption 
made  in  that  Parliament  should  be  in  any  way  prejudicial  to  them 
in  respect  of  any  grants  and  confirmations  made  to  them,  and  that 
all  grants  to  the  provost  and  scholars  of  the  royal  college  of 
St.  Mary  aud  St.  Nicholas,  Cambridge,  of  the  priory  of  St.  Michael's 
Mount,  CO.  Cornwall,  the  manor  of  Tileshide,  sometime  parcel  of  tlie 
abbey  of  Caen,  the  parsonage  of  Felstede  and  a  soil  aud  ground  of 
wood  called  '  Blakeley,'  or  '  BlakehoUey,'  co.  Essex,  also  parcel 
of  the  said  abbey  of  Caen,  all  the  lands  and  possessions  sometime  of 
the  abbey  of  St.  Nicholas  of  Angers  in  the  county  of  Buckingham  and 
in  Spaldyng,  co.  Lincoln,  and  the  fruits  of  the  church  of  Cosham, 
CO.  Wilts,  should  be  void  aud  of  no  effect  and  that  the  said  beseechers 
should  have  the  same. 

2.  The  assent  to  the  same  : — A  cest  bille  lez  communes  soni  assentuz. 

3.  The  response  of  the  king  : — Le  Roy  le  voet. 
[Rolls  of  Parliament,  v.  456.] 


49  HENRY  VI. 


239 


1471.  Membrane  8^'cont. 

March  21.      Licence  for  the  prior  and  convent  of  the  monastery  of  Mocheluey,  of  the 
Westminster,  order  of  St.  Benedict,  to  elect  an  abbot  in  the  place  of  William  Crukerne, 
last  abbot,  deceased. 

March  22.       Whereas  by  an  act  in  Parliament,  26  November  last,  it  was  ordained  that 
Westminster,  the  election  of  a  mayor  of  the  city  of  York  should  take  place  annually  on 
the  feast  of  St.  Gregory,  but  on  account  of  certain  dissensions  between  the 
citizens  no  election  has  been  made,  tlie  king  hereby  appoints  William 
Holbek,  citizen  and  aldermen  of  the  city,  mayor  for  one  year.  [FasJera.] 

By  K.  and  C. 

March  21.  Grant  to  the  king's  kinsman  John  Neville,  marquis  of  Mountague,  and 
Westminster,  the  heirs  male  of  his  body,  of  the  king's  castle,  manor  and  lordship  of 

Wresill,  co.  York,  with  knights'  fees,  stanks,  mills  and  all  appurtenances. 

[Fcedera,']  By  p.s. 

March  21.      Presentation  of  Oliver  Blande,  chaplain,  parson  of  the  parisli  church  of 
Westminster.  Richemond,  of  the  jurisdiction  of  John  Shirwood,  archdeacon  of  Richemond, 
to  the  parish  church  of  Gosforth,  of  the  same  jurisdiction,  on  an  exchange 
of  benefices  with  William  Egremond,  bishop  of  Dromore. 

March  22.  Grant,  during  pleasure,  to  William  Tyler  of  the  office  of  clerk"  of  the 
Westminster,  market  of  the  household,  with  the  accustomed  fees. 

By  K.  by  word  of  mouth. 

Presentation  of  John  Perret  chaplain,  to  the  parish  church  of  Lasseham, 
in  the  diocese  of  Winchester,  void  by  the  death  of  Tliomas  Hewo. 

March  28.      Grant,  during  ple&sure,  to  the  king's  servant  John  Rypon,  esquire,  of  the 
Westminster,  custody  of  the  king's  manor  or  lordship  of  Eitliam,  co.  Kent,  with  wages 
of  Gd.  daiJy  from  the  issues  of  the  manor  from  9  October  last. 

By  K.  by  word  of  mouth. 

April  1.        Signification  to  J.  bishop  of  Lincoln  of  the  royal  assent  to  the  election  of 
Westminster.  Dame  Margaret  More,  nun,  as  abbess  of  the  monastery  of  Godstowe,  of  the 
order  of  St.  Benedict. 


Membrane  7. 


Feb.  22. 
!  Westiuinster. 


Feb.  24. 
Westminster. 


Grant  to  the  merchants  of  Genoa  for  six  years  from  Easter,  10  Edward  IV, 
that  all  merchants  of  Genoa  called  '  Jauuays '  and  all  other  merchants  and 
brokers  of  Genoa,  denizen  and  alien,  and  factors,  clerks,  attorneys,  subjects 
and  vassals  shall  be  quit  of  certain  subsidies  granted  in  Parliament  at 
Redyng,  31  Henry  VI,  and  that  in  respect  of  certain  subsidies  granted  in 
Parliament  at  Westminster,  29  April  3  Edward  I  V,  they  shall  not  pay  more 
than  43*'.  id.  for  the  subsidy  of  each  sack  of  wool  and  every  240  wool-fells 
and  105.  for  the  custody  of  the  same  and  12d'.  for  the  subsidy  of  tin  of  the 
value  of  20*.  and  3d.  for  the  custom  of  the  .same.    [Fadcra.]         By  p.s. 

Like  grant  to  John  de  Bardes  of  Florence,  being  in  the  realm  of  England, 
and  three  clerks  and  four  servants  of  his.  By  p.s. 

Grant  for  life  to  John  Langstrotlicr,  prior  ol'  the  Hospital  of  St.  John 
of  Jerusalem  in  England,  and  John  Delves,  esquire,  of  the  office  of  warden 
of  the  exchange  and  mint  within  the  Tower  of  London  and  tlie  custody  of 
the  coinages  of  gold  and  silver  within  the  realm  of  England  and  the  town 
of  Calais,  receiving  fees  as  in  the  last  year  of  Edward  III.  and  the  first  of 
Richard  II.  from  the  issues  of  the  same,  with  all  accustomed  profits. 
iFosdera.}  By  p.s. 


240 


CALENDAR  OF  PATENT  ROLLS. 


1471. 

Feb.  24. 

Westminster. 

Feb.  24. 
Westuiiastor. 


Feb.  27. 
Westminster. 


Feb.  24. 

Westminster. 


March  2. 
Westminster, 

March  4. 
Westminster. 


Membrane  6. 

Grant,  during  pleasure,  to  John  Peyutour  of  IdO*.  yearly  which  the 
abbot  and  convent  of  St.  Augustine's,  Canterbury,  render  to  the  king  for 
the  farm  of  the  hundreds  of  Eyngeslowe,  Dunhampford  and  Blengate, 

The  king's  lieges  John  Marchall,  Thomas  Desford  and  John  Wendy, 
merchants  of  the  city  of  London,  have  shown  the  king  that  in  October, 
1467,  each  of  them  sent  a  ship  to  the  city  of  Bordeaux  in  the  company  of 
other  ships  of  the  I'ealm  and  on  the  voyage  they  took  a  ship  of  the 
Spaniards  laden  with  divers  goods  and  merchandise  opposite  the  Isle  of 
Wight  and  took  it  to  the  port  of  Sutliampton,  and  in  this  ship  were  certain 
persons  calling  themselves  subjects  of  the  duke  of  Burgundy  who  claimed 
the  ownership  of  divers  goods  and  merchandise  in  the  ship,  and  although 
they  raised  war  against  the  king's  said  lieges  and  aided  the  Spaniards, 
nevertheless  after  the  capture  they  complained  to  Edward,  lately  earl  of 
March,  occupying  the  crown,  as  subjects  of  the  duke  of  Burgundy  and  sought 
restitution,  and  the  king's  said  lieges  made  answer  to  them  and  the 
complaint  was  dismissed,  and  afterwards  the  said  duke  of  Burgundy  at  the 
instance  of  one  Matice  Tele  of  Bruges  and  otliers  granted  to  the  said 
Matice  and  his  society  letters  of  marque  and  reprisal  against  John  Cok, 
John  Esyngton,  Nicholas  Faunt,  John  Marchall,  John  Cole,  John  Wendy, 
Tliomas  Desford  and  Thomas  Roger,  subjects  of  the  king,  for  tlie  sum  of 
747/.  of  money  of  Flanders,  and  by  virtue  of  these  letters  the  said  Tliomas 
Desford  was  lately  arrested  at  Midelbourgh  and  imprisoned  there  for  the 
space  of  18  weeks,  and  certain  goods  of  one  Thomas  Wareyn  of  London, 
'mercer,'  were  seized  as  goods  of  the  said  John  Marchall  and  never 
restored  to  him,  and  the  said  John  Wendy  having  letters  of  safe-conduct 
of  the  duke  believed  himself  safe  but  means  were  devised  to  arrest  him  in 
Brabant  and  Flanders  and  he  was  compelled  to  quit  those  countries.  The 
king  accordingly  grants  to  tlie  said  John  Marchall,  Thomas  Desford  and 
John  Wendy  counter-marque  and  reprisal  against  any  subjects  of  the  said 
duke  to  the  value  of  1,000/.  By  p.s. 

Signification  to  R.  bishop  of  Salisbury  of  the  royal  assent  to  the  election 
of  Roger  Bemyster,  monk  of  the  monastery  of  Cerne,  of  the  oixler  of 
St.  Benedict,  as  abbot  of  that  place  in  the  place  of  John  Vanne,  last  abbot, 
deceased.  By  p.s. 

Grant  in  frank  almoin  from  Michaelmas  last  to  Robert  Wodclarke,  the 
provost,  and  the' scholars  of  the  royal  college  of  St,  Mary  and  St.  Nicholas, 
Cambridge,  of  the  manor,  lordship  or  jjriory  of  Seint  MargTct  Stratton 
alias  Stratton  Margrct,  co.  Wilts,  the  reversion  of  the  lordship  or  manor  of 
Paunfeld  alias  the  alien  priory  of  Paunfeld  with  all  lands  and  appurtenances 
in  the  county  of  Essex  and  tlie  city  of  London  on  the  death  or  cession  of 
Gresilda  Hende,  a  farm  or  rent  of  G  marks  yearly  which  the  prior  of 
Folkestone  is  bound  to  render  to  the  king  for  an  impost  to  the  chief  house 
of  the  priory  beyond  seas,  at  the  hands  of  the  prior  or  the  sheriff  of  Kent, 
the  manor  of  Huntyngfeld,  co.  Kent,  and  the  advowson  of  the  church  of 
Haddescogh  or  Haddescough,  co.  Norfolk,  to  hold  with  advowsons,  rents, 
farms,  lands,  liberties,  courts  leet,  views  of  frank-pledge  and  other  profits. 

By  p.s. 

Ratification  of  the  estate  which  Master  John  Shirwode  has  as  master  or 
warden  of  the  hospital  of  St.  Nicholas  in  the  suburbs  of  York. 

By  K.  by  word  of  mouth , 
Grant  to  the  prior  and  convent  of  St.  Andrew's,  Hexham,  co.  North- 
umberland, of  two  tuns  of  red  wine  yearly  in  the  port  of  Newcastle  on 
Tyne  at  the  hands  of  the  chief  butler  of  England  or  his  deputy  there. 

By  p.s. 


49  HENRY  VI. 


241 


1471. 


Miircli  6. 
Westminster. 


Marcli  .5. 
Westminster. 


April  4. 
Westminster. 


April  7. 
Wcstmiustcr, 


April  8. 
Westminster. 


Membrane  6 — cont. 

Mandate  in  pursuance  to  the  chief  butler  or  his  lieutenant  in  the  port. 

Appointment  of  William  Staveley,  William  Spencer  and  John  Austyn 
to  take  stone-cutters,  carpenters,  plumbers,  masons,  tilers,  smiths  and  other 
workmen  for  the  works  of  the  king's  manors  of  Wodestok,  ITangburgh, 
Wotton  and  Stanesfeld  and  the  mill  of  Wodestok  and  the  enclosure  of  the 
park  of  Wodestok  and  the  meadows  within  it,  and  stone,  timber,  tiles, 
shingles,  glass,  iron,  lead,  lime  and  other  necesjaries  and  carriage  for  the 
same.  By  K. 

Mandate  to  the  eschcator  in  the  county  of  Dorset  for  the  restitution  of 
the  temporalities  of  the  abbey  of  Cerne,  of  the  order  of  St.  Benedict,  to 
Eoger  Bemyster,  monk  of  the  house,  whoso  election  as  abbot  li.  bisliop  of 
Salisbury  has  confirmed  and  whose  fealty  the  king  has  taken.  By  p.s. 

Writ  de  intendendo  in  pursuance  to  the  tenants. 

Appointment  of  Thomas  INIaynwaryng,  esquire,  Thomas  Corewen, 
Thomas  Aghton,  Thomas  Colbrond  and  Edmund  Sclonge  to  lake  carriage 
for  the  transport  of  a  cannon  called  '  Mile  Ende  '  from  Bristol  to  the  castle 
of  Horncby  for  delivery  to  Tliomas  Stanley  of  Stanley,  knight,  for  the 
siege  of  the  castle.    \_Fiedera.']  By  K.  &  C. 

Mandate  to  the  escheator  in  the  counties  of  Oxford  and  Berks  for  the 
2'estitution  of  the  temporalities  of  the  abbey  of  Godstowe  to  Dame  Margaret 
More,  nun  of  the  house,  whose  election  as  abbess  J.  bishop  of  Lincoln  has 
confirmed  and  whoso  fealty  the  king  has  ordered  to  bo  taken  by  the  abbot 
of  Osncy. 

The  like  to  the  cschcators  in  the  following  counties  : — 
Southampton  and  Wilts. 
Buckingham. 
Warwick. 
Gloucester. 
Sussex. 
Dorset. 
Northampton. 

The  like  to  John  Stokton,  mayor  of  London,  escheator  in  that  city. 
Writ  de  intendendo  in  pursuance  to  the  tenants. 

Signification  to  R.  bisIiop  of  Bath  and  Wells  of  the  royal  assent  to  the 
election  of  John  Bracy,  monk  of  the  monastery  of  Mochelney,  of  the  order 
of  St.  Benedict,  as  abbot  of  that  place. 

General  pardon  to  William  Noroys  of  Yatlcnden,  co.  Berks,  knight. 

By  K.  by  word  of  mouth. 


Membranes  5  and  4. 

March  2.3.  Grant  for  life  to  the  king's  kinsman  George,  duke  of  Clarence,  from 
Westminster.  Micliaclmas  last,  of  (he  manors  of  Merston  Mesey  and  Cosham,  co.  Wilt.s, 
the  manor  of  Swaloweleld  with  appurtenances  in  the  same  connty,  the 
manors  of  Boncstede  and  Waulton  on  the  Ilill,  co.  Siu-rey,  and  liie  manor 
of  Great  Wrattyng,  co.  Suffolk,  with  knights'  fees,  advowsons,  courts  Icct, 
views  of  frank-pkdgo  and  all  other  liberties  and  franchises,  20/.  yearly 
from  tlio  farm  of  the  borough  of  Bedfoid,  10/.  yearly  from  the  custody  of 
the  assize  of  bread  and  ale  in  the  University  of  Cambridge,  oO  marks  yearly 
which  the  abbot,  prior  and  convent  of  St.  Albans  pay  to  the  king  lor  the 
voidancc  of  the  abbey  and  its  toniporalilics,  10  niark.s  yeiirly  from  the  farm 
of  two  parts  of  the  manor  of  Bodyngton,  cos.  Oxford  and  Herks,  and 
5  marks  yearly  from  the  limn  of  the  third  part  which  Richard  Damory  and 
his  heirs  pay,  40/.  yearly  which  the  abbot  and  convent  of  Bury  St.  Edmunds 

y  96186.  Q 


242 


CALENDAR  OF  PATENT  ROLLS. 


1471.  Membranes  5  and  4 — cont. 

pay  to  IIiG  king  for  the  custody  of  the  abbey  and  its  temporalities,  9/.  165.  Qd. 
from  the  surplusage  of  the  manor  of  Lowistoftnnd  the  hundred  of  Ludyng- 
land,  CO.  Suffolk,  at  the  hands  of  the  heirs  male  of'Michael  de  la  Pole,  earl 
of  Suffolk,  or  other  castles,  manors,  lands  and  rents  specified  in  the  seventh 
roll  of  Henry  V.  assigned  to  the  said  Michael  and  his  heirs  and  assigns  to 
the  value  of  500/.  yearly  at  the  hands  of  the  said  heirs  male  or  the  sheriff 
of  Norfolk  and  Suffolk,  40/.  yearly  for  the  manor  of  Hedyngton  with  the 
hundred  of  Bolyngdon  without  the  north  gate  of  Oxford  at  the  hands  of 
William  Wilcotes,  esquire,  and  his  heirs  or  the  men  of  the  town  or  the 
sheriff  of  Oxford  and  Berks,  20/.  yearly  from  the  farm  of  the  town  of 
Dorchester  at  the  hands  of  the  burgesses  or  the  gherifE  of  Somerset  and 
Dorset,  12/.  yearly  which  tlie  abbess  and  convent  of  Shaftesbury  pay  for 
the  custody  of  the  town  of  Shaftesbury,  18/.  and  a  pair  of  gilded  spurs 
yearly  for  the  farm  of  the  manor  of  Peurestoke,  co.  Dorset,  which  John 
Wroxhale  and  his  heirs  pay,  35/.  yearly  which  the  burgesses  of  Oxford  pay 
for  the  farm  of  the  town,  13/,  yearly  which  John  Norres,  esquire,  and 
William  his  son  pay  for  the  custody  of  the  manor  of  Beuham  Lovell,  co. 
Berks,  and  two  messuages,  two  carucates  of  land,  40  acres  of  meadow  and 
20  acres  of  wood  in  Helbenham  and  Westbroke  in  the  same  county  which 
Richard  Ilerefeld,  deceased,  held  for  life  of  the  grant  of  Richard  II.  and 
from  the  custody  of  200  acres  of  wood  in  Hurst,  co.  Wilts,  and  the  hundred 
of  Assherigge  which  Richard  Mountagu,  knight,  held  iu  chief  in  his 
demesne  as  of  fee  tail,  committed  to  the  said  John  and  William  for  a  term  of 
twenty  years  beginning  at  Michaelmas,  34  Henry  VI,  and  the  same  manor, 
land  and  wood  with  knights'  fees  and  advowsons  after  the  said  term,  20/. 
yearly  Avhich  the  abbot  and  convent  of  Mahnesbury  pay  for  the  farm  of 
the  town  of  Mahnesbury  with  three  hundreds  pertaining  to  the  town,  15/. 
yearly  which  William  la  Zouche  of  Totneys,  knight,  and  his  heirs  pay  for 
the  hundred  of  Calne  and  a  water-mill  in  Calne,  co.  Wilts,  12/.  yearly 
from  the  farm  of  Kyngton  and  IOO5.  yearly  from  the  farm  of  the  wapentake 
of  Goscote  which  Nicholas  Segrave  pays,  1 16s.  yearly  from  the  farm  of  a 
moiety  of  the  town  of  Tamworth,  co.  Warwick,  and  the  increment  of  the 
same,  12/.  18s.  ^\d.  from  the  fee  farm  of  the  hundred  of  Framilond,  co. 
Leicester,  which  Roger  Beller  pays,  20/.  from  the  fee  farm  of  the  town  of 
Slirovesbury  and  10  mai'ks  from  the  old  increment  and  5  marks  from  the 
new  increment,  12/.  yearly  which  Nicholas  de  Audeley  brother  and  heir  of 
Thomas,  son  and  heir  of  James  de  Audeley,  pays  for  the  farm  of  the 
manor  of  Ford  at  the  hands  of  the  farmers  of  the  manor  or  the  sheriff  of 
Salop,  10/.  6s.  Sd.  yearly  which  the  abbot  and  convent  of  Halesowen  pay 
for  tlie  fee  fnrm  of  the  manor  of  Roweley,  co.  Stafford,  and  9/.  yearly 
which  Hugh  Tyrell,  brother  and  heir  of  John  Tyrell,  and  his  heirs  pay  for 
the  custody  of  the  manors  of  Keneftxre  and  Storton  and  the  forest  of 
Kenefare,  co.  Staubrd;  in  part  recompcnce  of  certain  possessions  which  he 
has  surrendered  as  lately  belonging  to  the  king's  consort  Margaret,  queen 
of  England,  the  king's  son  Edward,  prince  of  Wales,  duke  of  Cornwall  and 
earl  of  Chester,  and  certain  lands  attainted  in  the  time  of  the  late  king, 
notwithstanding  agreements  made  between  the  said  queen  and  prince  and 
himself  and  Richard,  earl  of  Warwick  and  Salisbury,  that  he  should  retain 
all  his  possessions  until  duly  recompensed,  the  honour  and  lordship  of 
Tuttebury  excepted,  which  he  should  hold  to  himself  and  the  heirs  of  his 
body.    And  grant  to  him  also  as  above  of  the  county,  honour  and  lordship 
of  Richemond  with  all  castles,  towns,  lordships,  manors,  lauds,  possessions, 
members,  reversions,  farms,  rents,  services,  sokes,  balliages  and  courts  in 
the  counties  of  Lincoln,  York,  Westmoreland,  Gloucester,  Buckingham, 
Cambridge,  Essex,  Kent,  Dorset  and  Norfolk  and  in  London  and  elsewhere, 
the  manor  and  lordship  of  (Jhesthuut,  co.  Hertford,  the  castle,  lordship  and 
manor  of  Somerton,  co.  Lincoln,  the  manors  of  Bonby  and  Helwell  and 


49  HENRY  VI. 


243 


1471.  Membranes  5  and  4 — cont. 

two  parts  of  the  lordship  and  manor  of  Burvvell,  co.  Lincoln,  and  the 
lordship  and  manor  of  Ludgarsale,  co.  Wilts,  with  knights' fees,  advowsons, 
wards,  marriages,  reliefs,  escheats,  views  of  frank-pledge,  courts  leet, 
hundreds,  wapentakes,  return  of  writs  and  execution  of  the  same,  and  all 
other  liberties,  and  31/.  IO5.  yearly  from  the  fee  farm  of  Wexcombe  and 
Bedwyn,  co.  Wilts.    [Fcedera.']     •  By  p.s. 


Membrane  3. 

Feb.  18.  Appointment  of  the  king's  kinsman  George,  duke  of  Clarence,  as  his 
Westminster,  lieutenant  in  Ireland  for  twenty  years  from  Michaelmas  last,  with  power  to 
appoint  a  deputy  under  him  to  keep  and  govern  the  land  in  his  absence, 
to  keep  the  king's  peace  and  laws  and  punish  offenders,  to  receive  rebels 
into  the  king's  peace,  to  pardon  for  treasons  and  other  offences,  to  receive 
fines  and  ransoms,  to  do  justice,  to  punish  rebels,  to  grant  forfeited  lands 
to  suitable  persons  and  also  lands  of  Englishmen  which  have  been  deserted, 
provided  that  due  proclamation  be  made,  to  grant  licences  for  alienation  in 
mortmain,  appropriation  of  churches  and  foundation  of  charities  and 
fraternities,  to  present  to  benefices  in  the  king's  gift,  to  receive  fealties  and 
renunciations  of  archbishops  and  bishops  and  homages  of  tenants  and  to 
restore  temporalities,  to  appoint  and  remove  all  officers  and  ministers, 
to  make  purveyance  for  his  household  and  for  the  soldiers,  to  lake  accounts 
of  officers  and  ministers  and  to  do  all  other  things  pertaining  to  his  office. 
\_Fceu'cra.']  By  p.s. 


Membrane  2. 


Feb.  15. 

Westminster. 

Fob.  14. 
Westminster. 


Feb.  14. 

WcBtiniuster. 


Jan.  26. 
Westminster. 


Feb.  IS. 
Westminster. 


General  pardon  to  John  Alfrilhc  late  of  Plesshc,  co.  Essex,  the  younger, 
*  lailour,'  alias  '  hosycr,'  of  all  oli'enccs  committed  by  him  before 
14  February.  By  p.s. 

Grant  to  the  king's  uterine  brother  Jasper,  earl  of  Pembroke,  of  the 
custody  of  all  castles,  towns,  lordships,  manors,  lands  and  other  possessions 
with  knights'  fees  and  advowsons  late  of  Richard  Grey,  knight,  late  lord  of 
Powys,  tenant  in  chief,  during  the  minority  of  John  his  son  and  heir  and 
the  custody  and  marriage  of  the  latter  without  disparagement,  and  so  from 
heir  to  heir,  finding  a  competent  sustenance  for  the  heir.  [/a?(/em.] 

By  p.s. 

Grant  to  the  king's  servitor  Henry  Abyndon  of  40  marks  yearly  from 
Michaelmas  last  from  the  isstics  of  the  county  of  Wilts  for  the  provision  of 
clothing  for  the  boys  of  the  chapel  of  the  king's  household  and  for  their 
instruction  and  governance,  so  long  as  he  shall  have  the  said  provision, 
instruction  and  governancs.  By  p.s. 

Grant,  during  pleasure,  to  Edward  Gower,  esquire,  of  tlie  office  of  clerk 
of  the  Avorks  within  the  king's  manor  and  park  of  Claryngdon,  co.  Wilts, 
receiving  12d.  daily  from  the  issues  of  the  county,  with  all  other  profits. 

By  K.  by  word  of  mouth. 

Grant  for  life  to  James,  earl  of  Douglas,  in  lieu  of  a  like  grant  to  him  by 
letters  patent  dated  23  November,  86  Henry  VI.  which  are  invalid,  of  200/. 
yearly  from  Michaelmas  last,  viz.  14/.  from  the  farm  of  the  town  or  manors 
of  Diirlynglon  and  Ragcnhull,  co.  Nottingham,  10/.  froiik  the  fee  farm  of 
the  town  of  Retford,  10/.  from  the  farm  of  ArnaL  at  the  hands  of  Hugh 
Nevylle,  son  iuid  heir  oi^  .Tohn  Ncvylio,  or  his  licirs  or  the  sheriff  of 
Nottingham  and  Derby,  12/.  16s.  Hd.  from  the  is.^ues  or  custody  of  the 
manor  and  lordship  of  Edyngstowe,  co.  Nottingham,  14  marks  from  the 
bailiwick  of  the  honour  of  Pevcrel  in  the  counties  of  Nottingham  and 

Q  2 


244 


CALENDAR  OF  PATENT  ROLLS. 


1471.  Membrane  2 — cont. 

Derby  at  the  hands  of  William  Eland  and  his  heirs  oi'  the  said  sheriff,  201. 
from  the  issues  or  custody  of  a  moiety  of  the  church  of  Rotherham,  co.  York, 
at  the  hands  of  the  abbot  of  RoufFord  or  the  said  sheriff,  71.  from  the  issues 
of  a  rent  of  71.  yearly  in  Bulwell,  co.  Nottingham,  40/.  from  the  fee  farm 
of  the  borough  of  Gloucester,  32/.  16*.  Sd,  from  the  farm  of  the  hundreds  of 
Kyftesgate,  Holford  and  Greston  with  fairs  and  markets  in  the  town 
of  Wynchecombe  at  the  hands  of  the  abbot  and  convent  of  Wynchecombe 
or  the  sheriff  of  Gloucester,  10/.  from  the  fee  farm  and  increment  of  the 
town  of  Kyngeston,  co.  Surrey,  10/.  from  a  moiety  of  two  water-mills  below 
the  castle  of  Oxford  and  all  the  meadow  by  Oseney  called  '  Kyngesmede  ' 
and  a  moiety  of  the  fishery  of  the  river  called  '  Temese '  from  the  bridge 
called  '  Hydebrigge '  to  the  same  mills,  at  the  hands  of  the  abbot  and 
convent  of  Oseney  or  the  sheriff  of  Oxford  and  Berks,  14/.  from  the  farm, 
increment  and  profits  of  the  town  of  Nottingham,  and  10/.  from  the  fee 
farm  of  Queenhithe,  London.  By  p.s. 

Feb.  18.        Grant,  during  pleasure,  to  the  king's  servitor  John  Besynbe  of  the 
Westminster,  bailiwick  of  the  water  of  Wygenhale,  co.  Norfolk,  and  the  office  of  ganger 
of  the  town  of  Lenne,  co.  Norfolk,  with  the  accustomed  fees. 

By  K.  by  word  of  mouth. 

Feb.  24,  Exemplification,  at  the  request  of  John  Say,  esquire,  yeoman  of  the 
Westminster,  crown,  of  the  tenour  of  the  enrolment  of  letters  patent  dated  19  September, 
31  Henry  VL  being  a  grant  to  him  and  John  Rede,  yeoman  of  the  pantry, 
for  life  of  the  custody  of  the  king's  private  palace  at  Westminster.  These 
letters  have  been  lost  by  accident,  as  the  said  John  Say  has  taken  oath  in 
Chancery,  and  will  be  surrendered  if  found. 


1470.  Membrane  1. 

Dec.  11.        Ratification  of  the  estate  which  William  Morland,  king's  clerk,  has  as 
Westminster,  prebendary  in  the  king's  free  chapel  of  St.  Stephen  within  the  palace  of 
Westminster.  By  K.  by  word  of  mouth. 

The  like  of  the  estate  which  John  Davyson,  king's  clerk,  has  as 
prebendary  in  the  said  chapel  and  parson  of  the  church  of  Old  Romeney, 
in  the  diocese  of  Canterbuiy.  By  K.  by  word  of  mouth. 

The  like  of  the  estate  which  John  Burgh  has  as  warden  of  the  hospital 
of  St.  John  Baptist,  Occleve,  co.  Bedford,  and  60  acres  of  arable  land, 
3  acres  of  meadow  and  3  acres  of  pasture  pertaining  to  it. 

By  K.  by  word  of  mouth. 

Grant  to  the  king's  kinsman  Richard,  earl  of  Warwick  and  Salisbury,  of 
the  presentation  to  the  next  vacant  canonry  and  prebend  in  the  king's  free 
chapel  of  St.  Stephen  within  the  palace  of  Westminster, 

By  K.  by  word  of  mouth. 

Grant  for  life  to  the  king's  kinsman  George,  archbishop  of  York,  of 
the  king's  manors  of  Wodesioke,  Hangburgh,  Wotton  and  Stonesfeld 
with  their  members  and  hamlets  and  other  profits  and  the  hundred  of 
Wotton,  CO.  Oxford,  and  all  chattels  of  felons,  fugitives  and  outlaws  therein, 
rendei  ing  to  the  king  127/.  \Gs.  Qd.  yearly,  with  allowance  for  the  stipends 
of  tlie  chaplains  of  the  manor  of  Wodcstoke,  100s.  yearly  for  the  lieutenant 
or  steward  of  the  said  manors  and  hundred,  6(7.  daily  for  two  parkers  of  the 
pai'k  of  Wodestoke,  2d.  daily  for  the  porter  of  the  park  and  certain  other 
charges.    [Fcedera.]  By  p.s. 

Dec.  14.        Grant  to  Philip  Hardraan,  denizen  merchant,  and  Alan  Mounttane,  alien 
Westminsier.  merchant,  that  they  or  their  factors  or  attorneys  may  ship  sacks  and  bales 
of  wool,  woollen  cloths,  tin  and  barrels  of  vessels  of  pewter  and  tin  in  the 


49  HENRY  VI. 


245 


1470. 


Dec.  14. 
Westminster. 


Oct.  9. 
Westminster. 

1471. 

Feb.  15. 
Westminster. 


Feb.  15. 

Westminster. 

Ft<b.  15. 
Westminster. 


Feb.  22. 

Westminster. 


Membrane  1 — cont. 
ports  of  London,  Southampton  and  Sandwich  and  take  them  to  foreign 
parts  and  bring  back  other  merchandise  into  the  realm  quit  of  customs  and 
subsidies  to  the  sum  of  4,000/.  By  p.s. 

Grant,  during  office,  to  William  Morlan  i,  king's  clerk,  keeper  of  the 
rolls  of  Chancery,  of  one  tun  or  two  pipes  of  wine  yearly  at  Christmas 
from  the  king's  prises  in  the  port  of  London  at  the  hands  of  the  chief  butler 
of  England  or  his  deputy  there.  By  K.  by  -word  of  mouth. 

Grant,  during  pleasure,  to  John  Davyson,  clerk,  of  the  office  of  keeper 
or  clerk  of  the  hanaper  of  Chancery,  with  the  accustomed  fees  from  the 
issues  of  the  hanaper.  By  K.  by  word  of  mouth. 

Mandate  to  all  to  permit  Edward  Ayleward  alias  Thornam,  born  in  the 
island  of  Farrey  under  the  allegiance  of  the  king  of  Denmark,  dwelling  at 
Crowmer,  co.  Norfolk,  who  has  taken  an  oath  of  fealty,  to  inhabit  the  realm 
peaceably  and  enjoy  his  goods.  By  p.s. 

Presentation  of  Ralph  ^Makerell  to  the  parish  church  of  Bottellesford, 
in  the  diocese  of  Lincoln,  void  by  the  death  of  Alexander  Prouwet,  last 
parson.  By  K.  by  word  of  mouth. 

Grant  to  William  Morland,  king's  clerk,  of  the  custody  or  deanery  of  the 
king's  free  chapel  of  St.  I\iary  and  SS.  George  the  Martyr  and  Edward 
the  Confessor  within  the  king's  castle  of  Wyndesore,  and  appointment  of 
him  as  warden  or  dean.  By  K.  by  word  of  mouth. 

Mandate  to  R.  bishop  of  Salisbury  for  his  admission  and  institution. 

Appointment  for  life  of  William  Morland,  king's  clerk,  as  keeper  of  the 
rolls,  books  and  records  of  Chancery  and  grant  to  him  of  the  custody  of 
the  House  of  Converts  for  his  habitation,  with  the  accustomed  fees. 

By  p.s. 


Membranes  21d-22d. 
Commissions  of  the  peace  in  various  counties.    {See  Appendix.) 


1470.  Membrane  21d. 

Oct.  18.  Commission  of  oyer  and  terminer  to  the  king's  kinsmen  George,  duke 
Westminster,  of  Clarence,  John,  duke  of  Norfolk,  John,  duke  of  Suffolk,  Richard, 
earl  of  Warwick  and  Salisbury,  and  John,  earl  of  Oxford,  Thomas  Billyng, 
Richard  Pygot,  John  Radclyf,  Williiim  Caltliorpe,  knight,  John  Paston, 
knight,  Richard  Roos,  esquire,  John  Knyvet,  esquire,  William  Knyvct, 
esquire,  John  Hastynges,  esquire,  John  Heydon,  John  Jenncy,  John 
Fyncham,  Henry  Spilman,  John  Paston,  esquire,  and  Roger  Townesende, 
in  the  county  of  Norfolk.  By  K.  by  word  of  mouth. 

Vacated  by  surrender  in  cera  and  nothing  was  done. 
The  like  to  the  following  in  the  counties  named : — 

George,  duke  of  Clarence,  John,  marquis  of  ]\Iontagu,  Richard,  earl  of 
Warwick  and  Salisbury,  John,  earl  of  Oxford,  John,  lord  Scrope  of 
Scrope,  knight,  Thomas  Billyng,  Richard  Pygot,  John  Clieyiic, 
knight,  William  Sciitt^corge,  knight,  'J'lioniiis  Peyton,  '1  hi  mas 
Cotton,  John  Ansty,  William  Prcvylc,  John  Asplon  and  John  Gii  ton, 
in  the  county  of  Cambridgo. 
Vacated  as  above, 

George,  duke  of  Clarence,  Richard,  carl  of  Warwick  and  Salisbury, 
John  Bourghcher,  knight,  Richard  Nedl,  Edward  Grey,  knighf, 


246 


CALENDAR  OF  PATENT  ROLLS. 


1470. 


Oct.  18, 
Westminster. 


Oct.  23. 
AVestminster, 


Oct.  18. 

Westminster. 


Oct.  27. 
Westminster. 


Membrane  2ld — cont. 

Henry  Sotehill,  William  Fyldyng,  William  Grymmesby  and  Richard 
Hotoft,  in  the  county  of  Leicester. 
Vacated  as  above. 

George,  duke  of  Clarence,  Richard,  earl  of  Warwick  and  Salisbury, 
Henry  Stafford,  knight,  John  Bourghcher  of  Earners,  knight, 
Richard  Illyngworth,  knight,  William  Laken,  Thomas  Cobham, 
knight,  John  Wode,  Thomas  Basset,  John  Ellyngbrygge,  Robert 
Skern  and  Robert  Wyutersell,  in  the  county  of  Surrey. 

George,  duke  of  Clarence,  Richard,  earl  of  Warwick  and  Salisbury, 
Thomas  Billyng,  Richard  Pygot,  Edmund  Rede,  knight,  Thomas 
Hampden  of  Hampden,  John  Derham,  Thomas  Bryan,  Robert 
Ingleton,  Edmund  Molyneux,  John  Brekenok  and  Thomas  Hampden 
of  Kembell,  in  the  county  of  Buckingham. 

Vacated  as  above. 

George,  duke  of  Clarence,  Richard,  earl  of  Warwick  and  Salisbury, 
John  Bourghcher,  knight,  Edward  Grey,  kuight,  John  Grevill, 
knight,  .John  Huggeford,  John  Rous  the  younger,  William  Harwell, 
Thomas  Waldlf  and  William  Bryscowe,  in  the  county  of  Warwick. 

Vacated  as  above. 

George,  duke  of  Clarence,  John,  duke  of  Suffolk,  Richard,  earl  of 
Warwick  and  Salisbury,  John,  earl  of  Oxford,  Thomas  Billyng, 
Richard  Pygot,  Thomas  Walgrave,  knight,  John  Hevenyugliam, 
knight,  Henry  Wentworth  the  elder,  John  Broughton  the  younger, 
John  Clopton,  Edward  Grymeston,  Richard  Bothe,  William 
Harleston,  Robert  Harleston,  Thomas  Higham  the  younger,  John 
Sulyard  and  Richard  Yakesle,  in  the  county  of  Suffolk. 

Vacated  as  above. 

George,  duke  of  Clarence,  Richard,  earl  of  Warwick  and  Salisbury, 
Hugh  Courtenay,  knight,  John  Arundell,  knight,  Halnath  Maule- 
verer,  John  Carmynowe,  John  Halwill,  John  Trelavny,  Thomas 
Clemens,  Thom.a3  Bere  and  William  Menwennyk,  in  the  county  of 
Cornwall. 

Vacated  as  above. 

George,  duke  of  Clarence,  Richard,  earl  of  Warwick  and  Salisbury, 
Hugh  Courtenay,  knight,  William  Courtenay,  knight,  Thomas 
Fulford,  knight,  Philip  Courtenay,  Halnath  Mauleverer,  John 
Halwell,  Richard  Chechestre,  Richard  Halse,  John  Gybbis,  William 
Yeo,  JohnDenys,  William  Huddesfeld  and  William  Shillyngford,  in 
the  county  of  Devon. 

Vacated  as  above. 

Commission  to  the  king's  kinsmen  George,  duke  of  Clarence,  and 
Richard,  earl  of  Warwick  and  Salisbury,  Hugh  Courtenay,  knight,  John 
Arundell,  knight,  Halnath  Mauleverer,  John  Carmynowe,  John  Halwyll, 
John  Trelavny,  Thomas  Clemens,  Thomas  Bere  and  William  Menwynnek 
to  enquire  into  all  felonies,  murders,  homicides  and  other  offences,  in  the 
county  of  Cornwall  and  to  arrest  and  imprison  the  offenders. 

By  K.  by  word  of  mouth. 

The  like  to  the  following  in  the  counties  named  : — 

George,  duke  of  Clarence,  Richard,  earl  of  Warwick  and  Salisbury, 
Walter  Moyle,  Thomas  Yonge,  .Tohn  Lysle,  kuight,  Henry  Court, 
John  Paulet,  William  Brocas,  John  Philpot,  Richard  Neuport, 
.John  Blake,  Thomas  Welles  and  Richard  Jay,  in  the  county  of 
Southampton. 

George,  duke  of  Clarence,  Richard,  earl  of  Warwick  and  Salisbury, 
Hugh  Courtenay,  knight,   William   Courtenay,  knight,  Thomas 


49  HENRY  VI. 


Memhranc  2ld — cont. 

Fulfoi'd,  knight,  Philip  Courtenay,  Halnath  Mauleverer,  John 
Alwell,  Richard  Chichestre,  Richard  Halse,  John  Gybbes,  William 
Yeo,  John  Douys,  William  Huddelesfeld  and  William  Shillyngford, 
in  the  county  of  Devon, 

Membrane  20d. 

George,  duke  of  Clarence,  John,  duke  of  Norfolk,  John,  duke  of 
SufToik,  Richard,  earl  of  Warwick  and  Salisbury,  John,  earl  of 
Oxford,  Thomas  Billyng,  Richard  Pygot,  John  Fitzwater,  William 
Calthorpe,  knight,  John  Paston,  knight,  Richard  Roo?,  esquire, 
John  Hastynges,  esquire,  John  Knyvet,  esquire,  William  Knyvet, 
esquire,  John  Ileydon,  John  Jenney,  John  Fyncham,  Henry  Spihnan, 
John  Paston,  esquire,  and  Roger  Townescnd,  in  tlie  county  of 
Norfolk. 

George,  duke  of  Clarence,  Richard,  earl  of  Warwick  and  Salisbury, 
William,  earl  of  Arundel,  Thomas  Arundell  of  Mautravers,  knight, 
Richard  West  do  la  Warrc,  knight,  Richard  Fenys  of  Dacre,  knight, 
John  Fenys,  knight,  Thomas  Etchyngham,  knight,  Roger  Leukenour, 
knight,  John  Pclham,  knight,  John  Wo.le,  John  Devenysshe, 
Bartholomew  Bolney,  Nicholas  IMorley,  William  Cheync,  John 
Goryng  the  younger  and  Richard  Alfrcy,  in  the  county  of  Sussex. 

George,  duke  of  Clarence,  Richard,  earl  of  Warwick  and  Salisbury, 
Roger  Tocotcs,  knight,  Walter  IMoyle,  Thomas  Yonge,  John 
Wroghton,  Henry  Longe,  John  Whittokesmedf,  Tijomas  Rogers 
and  Thomas  Tropncll,  in  the  county  of  Wilt*. 

George,  duke  of  Clarence,  Richard,  earl  of  Warwick  and  Salisbury, 
Walter  Moyle,  knight,  Thomas  Yonge,  Nicholas  Latymer,  knight, 
William  Carant,  William  Neweburgli,  John  Ncweburgli,  Walter 
Chevercll  and  Thomas  Huse,  in  the  county  of  Dorset. 

George,  duke  of  Clarence,  Richard,  earl  of  Warwick  and  Salisbury, 
John,  carl  of  Shrewsbury,  Thomas  Horde,  John  Lcyghton,  Thonuu 
Acton  and  Robert  Charlcton,  in  the  county  of  Salop. 

George,  duke  of  Clarence,  Richard,  earl  of  Warwick  and  Salisbury, 
Robert  Danby,  knight,  Richard  Byngham,  knight,  John  Nedeliam, 
knight,  Robert  Markham,  knight,  Robert  Strelley,  knight,  John 
Stanhope,  Richard  Byngliam  the  younger,  Richard  Willughby, 
Thomas  Molyneux  and  Thomao  Nevyll  of  Southleverton^  in  the 
county  of  Nottingham. 

George,  duke  of  Clarence,  Richard,  earl  of  Warwick  and  Salisbury, 
John  Bourchcr,  knight,  Edward  Grey,  knight,  John  Greville,  knight, 
John  Hugford,  William  Harwell,  Thomas  Waldiff  and  William 
Bryscowe,  in  the  county  of  Warwick. 

George,  duke  of  Clarence,  Richard,  earl  of  Warwick  and  Salisbury, 
Thomas  Billyng,  Richard  Pygot,  Edmund  Kedc,  knight,  Thomas 
Hampden  of  Hampden,  John  Derham,  Thomas  Bryan,  Robert 
Ingleton,  Edmund  Molyneux,  Thomas  Hampden  of  Kcmbell  and 
John  Brekenok,  in  the  county  of  Buckingham. 

George,  duke  of  Clarence,  Richard,  carl  of  W'arwick  and  Salisbury, 
Richard  Byngham,  Richard  Chok,  knight,  Ralph  Botiller  of  Sudelcy, 
knight,  John  Beauchamp,  knight,  Edmund  Hungerford,  knight, 
Thomas  Yonge,  William  Whytyngton,  John  Gyslo,  John  Hungger- 
ford  and  Thomas  Lymeryk,  in  the  county  of  Gloucester. 

George,  duke  of  Clarence,  Richard,  carl  of  Warwick  and  Salisbury, 
John,  earl  of  Shrewsbury,  Robert  Danby,  knight,  Richard  Ilyngham, 
knight,  John  Ncdeham,  knight,  Robert  Strelley,  knight,  John 


248 


CALENDAR  OF  PATENT  ROLLS. 


1470,  Membrane  20d — cont. 

Gresscley,  kuight,  Henry  Vernon,  Nicholas  Langford,  Henry 
Fulgeham,  Thomas  Fraunceys  and  Nicholas  Stathum,  in  the  county 
of  Derby. 

George,  duke  of  Clarence,  John,  marquis  of  Mountagu,  Richard,  earl 
of  Warwick  and  Salisbury,  John,  earl  of  Oxford,  John  Scrope  of 
Scrope,  knight,  Thomas  Billyng,  Kichard  Pygot,  John  Cheyne, 
knight,  William  Seyntgeorge,  knight,  Thomas  Peyton,  Thomas 
Cotton,  John  Ansty,  William  Frevyle,  John  Asplon  and  John 
Girton,  in  the  county  of  Cambridge. 

George,  duke  of  Clarence,  Richard,  earl  of  Warwick  and  Salisbury, 
John  Bourcher,  knight  Edward  Grey,  knigl.t,  Richard  Nele,  Henry 
Sothill,  William  Fyldyng,  William  Grymesby  and  Richard  Hotoft, 
in  the  county  of  Leicester. 

George,  duke  of  Clarence,  John,  duke  of  Suffolk,  Richard,  earl  of 
Warwick  and  S.alisbury,  John,  earl  of  Oxford,  Thomas  Walgrave, 
knight,  John  Hevenynghara,  knight,  Henry  Wentworth  the 
elder,  John  Broughton  the  younger,  .John  Clopton,  Edward 
Grymston,  Richard  Bothe,  William  Harleston,  Thomas  Higham 
the  younger,  John  Sulyard  and  Richard  Yaxley,  in  the  county  of 
Suffolk. 

George,  duke  of  Clarence,  Richard,  earl  of  Warwick  and  Salisbury, 
Henry  Stafford,  knight,  John  Bourghchier  of  Barners,  knight, 
Richard  Illyngworth,  kuight,  William  Lakyn,  Thomas  Cobliam, 
knight,  John  Wode,  Thomas  Basset,  John  EUyngbrigge,  Robert 
Skern  and  Robert  Wyntreshill,  in  the  county  of  Surrey. 

George,  duke  of  Clarence,  Richard,  earl  of  Warwick  and  Salisbury, 
John,  earl  of  Oxford,  Henry,  earl  of  Esses,  Thomas  Tirell,  knight, 
Henry  Lewys,  knight,  William  Tyrell  the  elder,  knight,  William 
Tyrell  the  younger,  kuight,  William  Pyrton,  knight,  Geoffrey  Gate, 
knight,  Thomas  Bryan,  Louis  John,  John  Grene,  Thomas  Urswyke, 
Thomas  Langeley,  Nicholas  Sharpe,  Robert  Fitz  Symond,  Thomas 
Scargill  and  William  Grene,  in  the  county  of  Essex. 


Membrane  \9d. 

George,  duke  of  Clarence,  Richard,  earl  of  Warwick  and  Salisbury, 
John,  earl  of  Oxford,  John  Langstrother,  prior  of  St.  John  of 
Jerusalem  in  England,  Thomas  Billyng,  William  Laken,  Henry 
Frowyk,  Thomas  Frowyk,  William  Chadworth,  William  Esses, 
William  Mulsoo,  William  Millefordand  Thomas  Hunt,  in  the  county 
of  Middlesex. 

George,  duke  of  Clarence,  John,  duke  of  Suffolk,  Richard,  earl  of 
Warwick  and  Salisbury,  Ralph  Buttyller  of  Sudeley,  knight,  Richard 
Byngham,  knight,  Richard  Chok,  knight,  John  Bareatyne,  Thomas 
Stoner,  John  Stokes,  William  Marmyon,  Uichard  Danvers  and  Peter 
Marmyon,  in  the  county  of  Oxford. 
Nov.  9.         Commission   to   Thomas   Hampden   of  Hampden,  esquire,  Edmund 
Westminster.  Molyneux,  esquire,  John  Whityngham,  csqnirii,  and   Thomas  Lyude, 
esquire,  to  arrest  John  RufFord  and  bring  him  before  the  king  in  Chancery 
to  find  security  that  he  will  not  harm  Tliomas  Arblaster,  esquire. 


Membrane  \M. 

Nov.  14.  Commission  to  Thomas  Stoner,  Humphrey  Forster,  William  Marmyon 
Westmiuster.  and  Peter  Marmyon  to  deliver  the  gao  of  Oxford  of  William  Water  late  of 


49  HENRY  VI. 


249 


1470. 


Oct.  13. 

Westminster 


Oct.  18. 
Westminster. 


Nov.  12. 

Westminster. 


Nov.  10. 

Westminster, 


Nov.  19. 
Westminster. 


Membrane  18c? — cont. 

Henley  on  Thames,  co.  Oxford,  '  laborer,'  alias  William  atte  Water, 
*  horskeper,'  alias  William  Warde,  '  grome,'  prisoner  there. 

Commission  of  oyer  and  terminer  to  the  king's  kinsmen  John,  earl  of 
Oxford,  and  Henry,  earl  of  Essex,  Thomas  Tyrell,  Henry  Lewys,  William 
Tirell  the  elder,  William  Pirton  and  Geoffrey  Gate,  knights,  Louis  .John, 
John  Grene,  Thomas  Ursv?yke,  Thomas  Langley  and  William  Grene  in 
the  county  of  Essex. 

Vacated  by  surrender  in  cera  and  nothing  was  done, 

Tiie  like  to  the  king's  kinsmen  George,  duke  of  Clarence,  Richard,  earl 
of  Warwick  and  Salisbury,  and  William,  earl  of  Arundel,  Thomas  Arundell 
of  Mautrevers,  knight,  Richard  West  de  la  Ware,  knight,  Richard  Fenys 
of  Dacre,  knight,  John  Fenys,  knight,  Thomas  Echyngham,  knight,  Roger 
Leukenore,  knight,  .John  Pelham,  knight,  John  Wode,  John  Devenys.'-h, 
BartholomcAV  Bolney,  Nicholas  Morley,  William  Cheyue,  John  Goryng 
the  younger  and  Richard  Alfrey,  in  the  county  of  Sussex. 

The  like  to  tho  king's  kinsman  George,  duke  of  Clarence,  John,  duke  of 
Suffolk,  Richard,  earl  of  Warwick  and  Salisbury,  and  John,  earl  of  Oxford, 
Thomas  Billyng,  Richard  Pygot,  John  Radclyff,  William  Calthorpe, 
knight,  John  Paston,  knight,  Richard  Iloos,  esquire,  John  Knyvet,  esquire, 
William  Knyvet,  esquire,  John  Ilastynges,  esquire,  Jolin  IJeydon,  .John 
Fyncham,  Henry  Spilman,  John  Paston,  esquire,  and  Roger  Townesende, 
in  the  county  of  Norfolk.  By  K.  by  word  of  mouth. 

Vacated  as  above. 

The  like  to  the  king's  kinsmen  George,  duke  of  Clarence,  Richard,  earl 
of  Warwick  and  Salisbury,  and  John,  carl  of  Shrewsljury,  Thomas  Horde, 
John  Leyghton,  Thomas  Acton  and  Robert  Charloton,  in  the  county  of 
Salop. 

The  like  to  the  king's  kinsmen  George,  duke  of  Clarence,  John,  duke  of 
Suffolk,  and  Richardj  earl  of  Warwick  and  Salisbury,  Ralph  Botillcr  of 
Sudeley,  knight,  Richard  Byngham,  Richard  Chok,  John  Barcntyn, 
Thomas  Stoncr,  John  Stokes,  William  Marmyon,  Richard  Danvers  and 
Peter  Marmyon,  in  the  county  of  Oxford. 

Vacated  as  above. 

Commission  to  Thomas  Seiut  John,  esquire,  William  Wolfe,  esquire, 
John  Euyas,  'gentilman,'  Roger  Corbet,  '  gentilman,'  and  Bartholomew 
Clotte  to  arrest  Mark  Husc,  chaplain,  Thomas  Huse,  '  gentilman,' 
Thomas  Horne,  *  gentilman,'  Henry  Kenet,  '  yoman,'  Richard  Arche, 
'  yoman,'  Robert  Skatergodc  and  Robert  Brent  and  bring  them  before  the 
king  and  council. 

The  like  to  Thomas  Brewes,  knight,  John  Hopton,  Robert  Hopton, 
Edmund  Garneys,  Edmund  Inso  and  John  Banyard,  esquires,  and  the 
sheriff  of  Suffolk  to  arrest  Thomas  Skydmorc,  Robert  Russell  and  Richard 
Hunton  and  bring  them  before  the  king  and  council. 

Commission  to  Hugh  Courtcnay,  knight,  to  enquire  into  (he  complaint 
of  Peter  Ybanus,  niiistcr  of  a  sliip  called  Ic  Seint  John  Bapdstc  cf 
Bilcbawe  in  Spain,  that  whereas  he  freighted  the  ship  with  iron,  wools  and 
furs  called  *  bevers '  in  tho  parts  of  Spain  there  came  certain  men  of  Fowey 
when  the  ship  was  sailing  to  Flanders  and  seized  the  ship  off  the  coast  of 
Brittany  and  put  the  men  in  it  ashore  and  carried  off  the  ship  and  goods 
to  the  port  of  Fowy,  and  to  cause  restitution  to  be  made  of  the  said  ship 
and  all  its  gear  and  to  arrest  and  imprison  the  offenders  until  such  restitution 
be  made. 


250 


CALENDAR  OP  PATENT  EOLLS. 


1470. 

Dec.  12. 
■Westminster. 


1471. 

Feb.  14. 
Westminster. 


Membrane  17d. 

Commission  to  Hugh  Courtcnay,  knight,  Hugh  Jermyn,  mayor  of 
Exeter,  Richard  Druell,  William  Duke,  John  Kelly,  John  Betty  and 
John  Hamleyn  to  enquire  into  certain  felonies  and  riots  committed  within 
the  said  city  and  its  suburbs  by  certain  evildoers  who  lie  in  ambush  against 
tho  king's  lieges  and  to  arrest  and  imprison  the  offenders. 

Commission  to  the  king's  kinsman  John,  earl  of  Oxford,  William 
Calthorpe  and  John  Paston,  knights,  William  Knyvet,  William  Jenneye, 
one  of  the  king's  Serjeants  at  law,  Hugh  Fenne,  John  Haydon,  Edmund 
Clere  and  James  Arblaster  to  enquire  into  the  petition  of  the  burgesses 
and  inhabitants  of  the  town  of  Great  Jernemouthe  that  -whereas  the  town 
is  situated  on  the  sea  coast  and  is  the  defence  of  the  counties  of  Norfolk 
and  SufTolk  and  formerly  was  in  great  prosperity  as  a  resort  of  merchants, 
both  denizen  and  alien,  for  the  herring  fishery,  which  was  formerly  carried 
on  there  only  but  is  now  in  many  other  places,  and  formerly  there  were  in 
the  town  80  ships  with  '  fore  casteliis  '  and  140  others  and  the  men  of  the 
town  then  paid  a  fee  farm  of  60/.  yearly  and  supported  other  charges  for 
the  defence  of  the  town,  and  now  because  of  (he  departure  of  the  merchants 
and  because  they  are  charged  with  a  yearly  rent  of  61.  to  the  bailiffs  of  the 
Cinque  Ports,  alms  for  tlie  college  of  St.  George,  Windesore,  and  other 
alms,  watches  for  defence  against  the  king's  enemies,  the  repair  of  the 
walls  of  the  town  and  the  cleansing  of  the  moats,  bombards  and  powder 
for  the  defence  of  the  town,  and  the  repair  of  the  port,  and  because  only  24 
ships  called  '  hsshers '  belong  to  the  town,  and  many  inhabitants  leave  the 
town  in  consequence,  and  the  town  and  the  adjacent  parts  will  thus  come 
to  desolation,  the  king  should  pardon  to  them  a  great  part  of  the  said  fee 
farm.  By  K.  and  C.  in  Parliament. 


1470. 

Nov.  27. 

Westminster. 


Dec.  3. 

Westminster. 

Dec.  10. 
Westminster. 

1471. 

Jan.  17. 
Westminster. 


1470. 

Dec.  17. 
Westminster. 


Membrane  16d. 

Commission  to  John  Porter,  master  of  a  ship  called  le  Trinite,  at  present 
in  the  river  Thames,  to  take  mariners  for  the  said  ship  to  serve  the  king  at 
sea  in  the  company  of  the  king's  kinsman  Richard,  earl  of  Warwick  and 
Salisbury. 

The  like  to  the  following  : — 

John  Raulyn,  master  of  a  ship  called  le  Mar g arete. 

Richard  Hoberd,  master  of  a  ship  called  le  Cristofre. 

Robert  Grave,  master  of  a  ship  called  le  Elyne. 
The  like  to  Walter  Aldryche,  master  of  a  ship  called  le  Michell  of 
Jernemuth. 

The  like  to  Thomas  Roger,  master  of  a  ship  called  la  Katerine 
Warrewih. 

Commisfiion  to  John  Leventhorpe,  Ralph  Bawede,  Ralph  Grey,  Henry 
Barley,  Nicholas  Suthcotes,  one  of  the  king's  Serjeants  at  arms,  and  the 
sheriff  of  Hertford  to  arrest  Robert  Deynes  and  Richard  Colyns  and  bring 
them  before  the  king  in  Chancery  to  find  security  that  they  will  not  harm 
Henry  Exnyng. 

Membrane  lAd. 

Commission  to  John  Say,  knight,  Edmund  Gray,  knight,  Robert  Bawde, 
John  Feldc,  Nicholas  Elderbeke,  Robert  Mallerc,  William  Wellys,  John 
Ware,  Richard  Cooke,  Edmund  Catmcre  and  John  Skynner  to  arrest  and 


49  HENRY  VI, 


251 


1470.  Membrane  \id — cont. 

imprison  William  Wheteley,  Thomas  Fowler,  Charles  Nevell,  William 
Thrower,  William  Gent,  Thomas  Besteney,  John  Bertelot,  Thomas  Gillowe, 
Ralph  Payn,  John  Fuller,  Thomas  Wyseberd,  Thomas  Marie,  Richard 
Brake,  Richard  Fuller,  Walter  Plompton,  Thomas  Danell,  John  Stapill, 
John  Melson,  Richard  Leder,  William  Admond,  John  Walsyngham,  John 
Luke,  Robert  Meger,  Alexander  Okeley,  John  Dikson,  Peter  White, 
Nicholas  Henley,  John  Luke,  Edmund  Jordayn,  Ralph  Corbet,  William 
Shepard,  John  Shepard,  Thomas  Shepard,  William  Carles,  William  Clerk, 
Henry  Roter,  Robert  Clerk,  John  Were,  Nicholas  Henley,  Henry  Draper, 
Philip  Cliilde,  Peter  Childe,  John  Panel!  and  Thomas  William,  who  have 
committed  divers  robberies,  murders  and  other  crimes  at  Ware,  co.  Hertford. 

1471.  Membrane  13c?. 

Jan,  4.         Commission  to  William  Marmyon,  Peter  Marmyon  and  John  Marmyon 
Westminster,   to  arrest  John  Awebrey  alias  Awebry  and  bring  him  before  the  king  in 
Chancery  on  the  quinzaine  of  St.  Hilary  next. 

Jan.  16.  Commission  of  oyer  and  terminer  to  the  king's  uterine  brother  Jasper, 
Westminster,  earl  of  Pembroke,  William  Berkeley  of  Berkeley,  knight,  Thomas  Billyng, 
Robert  Dauby,  knight,  AVilliam  Yelverton,  knight,  Richard  Byngham, 
knight,  William  Laken,  Richard  Nele,  Walter  Aloyle,  knight,  John 
Nedeham,  knight,  Richard  Chok,  kniglit,  Thomas  Lilelton,  Thomas 
Yonge,  William  Notyngham,  Thomas  FitzHany  and  Thomas  Lymeryk  in 
the  county  of  Gloucester.  By  K.  &  C. 

Commission  to  Hugh  Courtenay,  knight,  William  Courtenay,  knight, 
Thomas  Fulford,  knight,  John  Ilalewell,  esquire,  John  Champeruon, 
esquire,  and  the  sheriff  of  Devon  to  arrest  Thomas  Olyver,  late  abbot  of 
Bokeloud,  and  bring  him  before  the  king  and  council,  and  to  deliver  William 
Breton,  abbot  of  Bokeland,  imprisoned  in  the  monastery  by  the  said  Thomas 
Olyver,  and  bring  him  before  the  king  and  council  to  show  his  complaint. 

Jan.  25.        Commission  to  Nicholas  Suthcotes,  one  of  the  king's  Serjeants  at  arms, 
Westminster.  Nicholas  Lamburn  and  Henry  Benet  to  arrest  John  Bedford,  '  yoman,'  and 
bring  him  before  the  king  in  Chancery  to  find  mainpernors  that  he  will  not 
harm  any  of  the  king's  people. 


1470. 

Dec.  21. 
Westminster. 


Dec.  21. 
Westminster. 


Membrane  I2d. 

Commission  of  array  beyond  Trent,  viz.  in  the  counties  of  Nottingham, 
York,  Northumberland,  Cumberland  and  Westmoreland,  to  the  king's 
kinsman  John,  marquis  of  Montague,  for  the  resistance  of  the  king's 
enemies  in  the  north.  \_Fa:dera.'\ 

Writ  de  intendendo  in  pursuance  directed  to  the^sheriff  of  Northumber- 
land. 

The  like  to  the  sheriffs  in  the  following  counties  : — 
Westmoreland. 
Cumberland. 
York. 

Nottingham. 


1471. 

Feb.  3. 

Westminster. 


Membrane  9d. 

Commission  de  walUis  et  fossatis  to  the  king's  kinsman  John,  marquis 
of  Montagu,  Robert  Constable,  knight,  Guy  Fairfax,  John  Vavasour,  Robert 
Sheffold,  Edward  Saltmersshc,  Robert  Portyngton  the  elder,  Robert  Lucas 
and  Leonard  Knyght  in  the  wapentakes  of  ilerthill  and  between  the  Ouse 
and  Derwent  and  the  liberty  of  Houedenshire  in  the  county  of  York, 


252 


CALENDAR  OF  PATENT  ROLLS. 


1471.  Membrane  9d — cont. 

Feb.  20.  The  like  to  the  king's  kinsman  John,  earl  of  Oxford,  William  Tyrell, 
Westminster,  knight,  John  Grene,  Thomas  Ursewyk,  Humphrey  Sterky,  Morgan  I^oteller, 
William  Cook,  William  Taverner  and  Thomas  Lute  along  the  shoi'e  of 
the  Thames  and  of  the  marsh  from  the  town  and  parish  of  Esthamme  to 
Hornedon  and  from  thence  to  Hokley  and  from  thence  to  Tollesbury  and 
Wyggebergh  in  the  county  of  Essex. 

The  like  to  J.  bishop  of  Lincoln,  the  king's  kinsmen  George,  duke  of 
Clarence,  and  Richard,  earl  of  Warwick  and  Salisbury,  Humphrey  Bourgh- 
chier  of  Crumwell,  knight,  Gervase  Clyfton,  knight,  William  Sicypwyth, 
knight,  Robert  Taylboys^  esquire,  Thomas  FitzWilliam  the  elder,  Thomas 
FitzWilliam  the  younger,  John  Whichecote,  esquire,  Robert  Sheffeld, 
John  Dymmok  of  F'riskeney,  Thomas  Kyme  of  Fryskeney,  William  Coote, 
John  Stayndrop,  Richard  Griffith  and  Thomas  Knyght  within  the  pares 
of  Lyndesey,  co.  Lincoln. 


Membrane  8d. 

March  22.      Commission  to  John  Newdegate,  esquire,  Thomas  Bacastre,  esquire,  and 
Westminster,  the  sheriff  of  Surrey  and  Sussex  to  arrest  Thomas  Taweke,  esquire,  and 
bring  him  before  the  king  and  council, 

March  23.      The  like  to  the  mayor  and  the  sheriff  of  the  town  of  Kyngeston  on  Hull 
Westminster,  to  arrest  Mark  Symondeson  and  bring  him  before  the  king  in  Chancery  to 
abide  the  judgement  of  the  king's  court. 

March  25.       Commission  of  array  to  the  king's  kinsman,  George,  duke  of  Clarence, 
Westminster,  and  the  king's  brothers  {sic)  Jasper,  earl  of  Pembroke,  and  Richard,  earl  of 
Warwick  and  Salisbury,  in  the  county  of  Hereford  for  defence  against 
Edward  the  usurper  and  his  adherents.    [i^cEf?era.]  By  K,  &  C. 

March  27.       Appointment  of  the  king's  son  Edward,  prince  of  Wales,  duke  of 
Westminster.  Cornwall  and  earl  of  Chester  and  Flint,  as  the  king's  lieutenant  throughout 
the  realm  of  England  to  array  an  aj'med  force  against  Edward  the  usurper 
and  his  adherent.?.    [I^tedera.^  By  K. 

March  28.      Commission  to  the  keepers  of  the  peace  and  the  sheriff  in  the  county  of 
Westminster.  Middlesex  to   arrest  and   imprison  certain  persons  who  lurk  within 
sanctuaries  and  other  privy  places  and  at  times  wander  forth  spoiling, 
killing  and  wounding  the  king's  lieges.  By  K. 


14'7()^  Membrane  Id, 

Dec.  28.        Commission  of  array  to  the  king's  kinsmen  George,  duke  of  Clarence, 
Westminster.  Richard,  earl  of  Warwick  and  Salisbury,  and  John,  earl  of  Oxfoi'd,  and 
John  Lescrope,  knight,  for  defence  against  the  king's  enemies.  \_Fcedera.'] 

By  K.  &  C. 

1471. 

Jan.  2.  Mandate  in  pursuance  to  the  sheriffs  of  Cambridge,  Huntingdon,  Norfolk, 
Westminster.  Suffolk,  Essex  and  Hertford.  [i^«?f/<?m.] 

Jan.  30.        Commission  of  array  to  the  king's  kinsman  George,  duke  of  Clarence,  the 
Westminster,  king's  uterine  brother  Jasper,  carl  of  Pembroke,  the  king's  kinsman  Richard, 
earl  of  Warwick  and  Salisbury,  in  the  parts  of  South  Wales  and  the  marches 
of  the  same  for  defence  against  Edward  the  usurper  and  his  adherents. 
[Fctdera.]  By  K.  by  word  of  mouth. 


253 


11  EDWARD  IV.— Part  I. 


Membrane  29. 

'ardoDS  of  outlawry  to  the  following  : — 
Thomas  Menerell  of  Rodysley,  co.  Derby,  esquire,  for  not  appearing 
before  Robert  Danby  and  his  fellows,  late  justices  of  the  Bench,  to 
answer  Robert  Lopham  touching  a  debt  of  20  marks,  he  having 
surrendered  to  the  Flete  prison,  as  Tliomas  liryan,  chief  justice  of 
the  Bench,  has  certified,  London. 

Robert  Bruns  late  of  Horton,  co.  Surrey,  clerk,  for  not  appearitig  to 
answer  Rose  late  the  wife  of  John  Merston,  knight,  and  executrix 
of  his  will,  touching  the  carryiug  off  of  two  books  of  the  said  John 
worth  121.  I  3s.  4d.  found  at  Lyngefeld.  Surrey. 

Thomas  Clerk  late  of  Allerwas,  co.  Stafford,  '  yonian,'  for  not 
appearing  before  John  Prysot  and  his  fellov/s,  justices  of  tlie  Bench 
of  the  late  king,  to  answer  Thomas  llethc,  Nicholas  Flaxale  and 
William  Colyns,  chaplain,  touching  a  debt  of  11/.  135.  4c/.  Stafford. 

John  Clerk  late  of  Resby,  co.  York,  '  yoman,'  for  not  appearing  before 
Robert  Danby  and  his  fellows,  late  justices  of  the  Bench,  to 
answer  Thomas  Portyngton,  clerk,  touching  a  debt  of  10  marks. 

York. 

John  Laurence  alias  Laurens  of  Wyboldeston  in  the  parish  of  Eton, 
CO.  Bedford,  '  gentilman,'  late  escheator  in  the  counties  of  Cambridge 
and  Huntingdon,  for  not  appearing  before  John  Prysot  and  hia 
fellows,  justices  of  the  Bench  of  the  late  king,  to  answer  Ralph, 
baron  of  Graystoke  and  Wcmme,  knight,  touching  a  debt  of  15 
marks  3s.  4f/.  and  before  Robert  Danby  and  hi.s  fellows,  late  justices 
of  the  Pencil,  to  answer  Henry  Silver,  citizen  and  vintner  of  London, 
lonching  a  debt  of  10/.  and  to  answer  a  plea  that  he  render  4('/.  to 
Joan  Clay,  widow,  late  the  wife  of  John  Clay,  knight,  John  Clay, 
son  and  heir  of  the  latter^  and  Robert  Grene,  esquire,  executors  of 
the  Avill  of  the  said  John.  Loudon  and  Middlesex 

Thomas  Thurger  late  of  Little  Abyton,  co.  Cambridge,  the  older, 
'  husbondnian,'  for  not  appearing  before  Robert  Danby  and  his 
fellows,  late  justices  of  the  Bench,  to  answer  the  prior  of  Penteney 
touching  a  debt  of  2Vl.  Norfolk. 

Richard  Yarum,  citizen  and  mercer  of  London,  for  not  appearing  to 
answer  John  Rose  of  the  city  of  Norwich,  '  worste<lwevor,' 
touching  a  debt  of  35/.  which  record  and  process  the  king  can.fcd  to 
come  before  him,  ho  having  siUTendcrcd  to  the  Marshalsca  ])rison, 
as  Thomas  Billyng,  chief  justice  of  the  King's  Bench,  has  certified. 

Norwich. 

William  Assyheford  of  Tavystoke,  alias  of  Tawestokc,  co.  Devon, 
*  mercer,'  alias  'chapman,'  for  not  appearing  to  answer  John 
Renkyu  touching  a  debt  of  13/.  2s.  lid.  and  William  Plendo, 
'  mercer,'  touching  a  del)t  of  8/.  and  to  answer  a  plea  that  he  render 
48s.  8(1.  to  Margaret  Roo  l.-ite  the  wife  of  John  Roo,  late  citizen 
and  mercer  of  London,  and  executrix  of  his  '-vUl.  London. 


254 


CALENDAK  OF  PATENT  ROLLS. 


2471,  Membrane  28. 

July  10.  Robert  Benette  late  of  London,  clerk,  for  not  appearing  to  answer 

Westminster.  Thomas  Hadley,  prior  of  the  new  hospital  of  St.  Mary  without 

Bysshoppysgate,  London,  touching  a  debt  of  201.  London. 

Oct.  10.  Robert  Foster  of  Adlyngflete,  co.  York,    '  husbondman,'   for  not 

Westminster.  appearing   before  John  Prysot  and   his   fellows,  justices  of  the 

Bench  of  the  late  king,  to  answer  William  Skipwith  of  Louthe, 
esquire,  touching  a  debt  of  4.1.  Lincoln. 

July  1.  Thomas  Wasp  late  of  Croydon,  co.  Surrey,  *  otemonger,'  for  not 

Westminster.  appearing  to  answer  Thomas  Brygge,  clerk,  touching  a  debt  of  405. 

Middlesex. 

Nov.  13.  Henry  Albone  late  of  Northwalsham,  co,  Norfolk,  *  husbondman,'  for 

Westminster.  not  appearing  before  Robert  Danby  and  his  fellows,  late  justices  of 

the  Bench,  to  answer  Edmund  Bataill  touching  a  debt  of  40^. 

Middlesex. 

Nov.  13.  Robert  Bo(he  of  Ilaloughton,  co.  Leicester,  'husbondman,'  for  not 

Westminster.  appearing  to  answer  Thomas  Bukke  alias  Bucke  of  Norhampton, 

'  gentilman,'  touching  a  debt  of  100*.  Northampton. 

'  Nov.  8.  Nicholas  Culpyn  of  Northcrauley,  co.  Buckingham,  '  husbondman,'  for 

Westminster.  not  appearing  to  answer  a  plea  that  he  render  20  quarters  of  malt 

worth  6  marks  to  Thomas  Osburn,  Bedford. 

Nov.  18.  Thomas  Colman  late  of  St.  Albans,  co.  Hertford,  *  yoman,'  for  not 

Westminster.  appearing  to  answer  a  plea  that  he  render  201.  to  Richard  Forster, 

'  gentilman,'  and  Joan  his  wife,  late  the  wife  of  Richard  Pygot  late 
of  Bechamptou,  co.  Buckingham,  *  gentilman,'  and  executrix  of  his 
will.  Buckingham. 

Oct.  12.  William  Sammys  of  Norwich,  'chapman,'  for  not  appearing  before 

Westminster.  John  Prysot  and  his  fellows,  justices  of  the  Bench  of  the  late 

king,  to  answer  Richard  Russell,  citizen  and  '  gyrdeler '  of  London, 
touching  a  debt  of  42s.  6c?.  London. 

Nov.  21.  Roger  Couper  of  Hepwor the,  co.  Suffolk,  yoman,'  for  not  appearing 

Westminster.  before  Robert  Danby  and  his  fellows,  late  justices  of  the  Bench,  to 

answer  William  Calthorpe,  knight,  late  esquire,  touching  a  debt  of  10/. 

Sulfolk. 

Nov.  6.  John  Farley  late  of  Stokton,  co.  Wilts,  'gentilman,'  for  not  appearing 

Westminster.  before  John  Prysot  and  his  fellows,  justices  of  the  Bench  of  the 

late  king,  to  answer  John  Austeli,  esquire,  touching  a  debt  of  8/. 

Somerset. 

Nov.  6.  John  Artour,  citizen  and  mercer  of  London,  for  not  appearing  before 

Westminster.  Robert  Danby  and  his  fellows,  late  justices  of  the  Bench,  to  answer 

John  Horne  of  London,  '  gentilman,'  and  William"  Horn,  citizen  and 
draper  of  London,  touching  a  debt  of  lOO-y.  Middlesex. 

1472. 

Jan.  30.  Thomas  Vale  of  Stokton  by  Lemistre,  co.  Hereford,  '  yoman,'  for  not 

Westminster.  appearing  before  John  Prysot  and  his  fellows,  justices  of  the  Bench 

of  the  late  king,  to  answer  William  Prelate  touching  a  debt  of  4 
marks.  Gloucester. 

Jan.  1.  Marjory  Hill  late  of  Estmallyng,  co.  Kent,  widow,  executrix  of  the 

Westminster.  will  of  Thomas  Hill,  for  not  appearing  before  Robert  Danby  and 

his  fellows,  late  justices  of  the  Bench,  to  answer  a  plea  that  she 
render  to  Roger  Walklyn  unjustly  detained  chattels  to  the  value  of 
5  marks.  Kent, 


11  EDWARD  IV.— Part  I. 


255 


1472.  3Iembrane  28 — cont. 

Feb.  6.  Thomas  Ken.stan  of  Brunham  Depdale,  co.  Norfolk,  '  yoman,'  for  not 

Westmiustcr.  appearing  to  answer  John  Sheriiian  touching  a  debt  of  40s. 

Norwich-, 

Feb.  4.  Thomas  Lcwkenoro  of  Shenlcy,  co.  Hertford,  clerk,  for  not  appearing 

Westminster.  to  answer  John  Pulteney,  esquire,  touching  a  debt  of  201.  Hertford. 


Membrane  27. 

Oct.  16.  Roger  Lundyssh  alias  Londys  of  Southilete,  co  Kent,  *  husbondman, 

Westminster.  for  not  appearing  to  answer  William  Rotheley  and  William  Turk 

touching  debts  of  10/.  and  4  marks  respectively,  Kent. 

Oct.  17.  Thomas  Heleder  late  of  Ilawebrygge,  co.  Essex,  *  husbondman,' for 

Westminster.  not  appearing  before  John  Prysot  and  his  foliow.s,  justices  of  the 

Bench  of  the  late  king,  to  answer  Tliomas  Bricc,  citizen  and  mercer 
of  London,  and  Richard  Alfray,  '  gentilman,'  touching  a  debt  of  10/. 

London. 

Oct.  19.  John  Bothebrokc   late  of  Marketoverton,  co.  Rutland,  clerk,  for  not 

Westminster.  appearing  before  Robert  Danby  and  his  fellows,  late  justices  of  the 

Bench,  to  answer  William  Pcre,  '  deyster,'  touching  a  debt  of 
12/.  13*.  Ad.  London. 

Oct.  23.  John  Reve  alius  Bayly  of  Chesulden,  co.  Wilts,  '  hu.sbondman,'  for  not 

Westminster.  appearing  to   answer  John   Poy,  vicar  of  the  parish  church  of 

Chesulden,  touching  a  debt  of  20/.  London. 

Oct.  28.  Henry  Watford  late  of  Raunston,  co.  Buckingham,  *  yoman,'  for  not 

Westminster.  appearing  to  answer  Henry  Skoreman  of  Suthwcrk,  co.  Surrey, 

'  bercbrewer,'  touching  a  debt  of  20/. 

Nov.  7.  Henry  Fitz  John  late  of  Hamcrton,  co.  Huntingdon,  '  husbondman,' 

Westminster.  for  not  appearing  when  sued  with  .Tohn  Fitz  John  late  of  Hamcrton, 

'  luisboudnian,'  to  answer  touching  a  pica  of  trespass  of  John  Upsale. 

London. 

1472. 

Jan.  24.  John  Balle  late  of  Weston,  co.  Cambridge,  *  tayllour,'  for  not  appearing 

Westminster.  to  answer  Thomas  Hunte  touching  a  tre.sjxiss.  SuiTolk. 

Jan.  23.  John  Stobard,  or  Scobard,  late  of  Thaxstede,  co.  Essex,  'maltman,'  for 

Westminster.  not  appearing  to  answer  John  Burgh  touching  a  debt  of  405. 

London. 

.Lm.  23.  Tlioraas  Smyth  of  Slialdebourne,  co.  Berks,  'husbondman,'  for  not 

Westminster.  appearing  before  John  Prisot  and  his  fellows,  justices  of  the  Bench 

of  the  late  king,  to  answer  Thomiis  Manuyng,  tha  warden  or  dean, 
and  the  canons  of  the  king's  college  or  free  chnpcl  of  St.  George 
within  the  castle  of  Wyndesore,  touching  a  debt  of  20/.  Wilts. 

Jan.  27.  John  Stephen  of  Elmestcde,  co.  Essex,  'j'ouian,'  kinsman  of  John 

Wctitmi lister.  Breton,  for  not  appearing  before  Robert  Hanby  and  his  fellows,  late 

justices  of  tho  Bench,  to  answer  John  Breton  touching  a  debt  of 
9l.\As.5d.  Suffolk. 

Robert  Fleecher  late  of  Wyvcrston,  co.  Suffolk,  '  hu.sbondman,'  for  not 
appearing  to  answer  Robert  Broke  touching  a  debt  of  12/.  10*. 

Feb.  7.  John  Garleke  of  Burnhain  Market,   co.  Norfolk,  'yoman,'  for  not 

Westmiustoi-.  appearing   to  answer  Edmund  Redkuape,  citizen  and  mercer  of 

London,  touching  a  debt  of  10/.  Norfolk. 

Feb.  12.  Jolm  Noko  of  Sandon  on  the  Hille,  co.  Hertford,  '  husbondman,'  for  not 

Westminster.  appearing  before  John  Prysot  and  liis  fellows,  justices  of  the 


CALENDAR  OF  PATENT  ROLLS. 


1472.  Membrane  27— coh^. 

Bench  of  the  late  king,  to  answer  Richard  Levermore  touching  a 
debt  of  405.  Middlesex. 


1471. 

Oct.  22. 
Westminster. 


Oct.  23. 
Westminster. 

Oct.  25. 

Westminster. 


Oct.  29. 

Westminster. 

Nov.  4. 

Westminster. 

Nov,  5. 
Westminster. 

Nov.  6. 

Westmiuster. 

Nov.  8. 
Westminster. 


Nov.  8. 
Westminster. 


Nov.  7. 
Westminster. 

Nov.  12. 

Westminster, 


Nov.  8. 
Westmiuster. 


Membrane  26. 

William  Jurdan  of  Hardynglegh,  co.  Sussex,  'bocher,'  for  not 
appearing  before  Robert  Danby  and  his  fellows,  late  justices  of 
the  Bench,  to  answer  Roger  Mell  touching  a  debt  of  100s. 

London, 

Thomas  Hunt  of  Westminster,  co.  Middlesex,  *  gentilman,'  for  not 
appearing  to  answer  William  Barton  touching  a  debt  of  8/. 

London. 

Richard  Mountygowe  of  Hangynghoughton,  co.  Northampton,  '  hus- 
bondman,'  alias  Richard  Ladde  alias  Richard  Montagu,  'yoman,' 
for  not  appearing  to  answer  John  ClylS  touching  a  debt  of  40.s.  and 
to  answer  a  plea  that  he  render  lOZ.  to  Anne,  duchess  of  Buckingham, 
late  the  wife  of  Humphrey,  duke  of  Buckingham,  and  Thomas, 
archbishop  of  Canterbury,  brother  of  the  said  duke,  executors  of  the 
will  of  the  said  duke,  Middlesex  &  Loudon. 

Richard  Botelere  of  Derteford,  co.  Kent,  'hosteler,'  for  not  appearing 
to  answer  John  Lokesden,  citizen  and  girdler  of  London,  touching 
a  debt  of  47s.  London. 

John  Blakenell  late  of  London,  chaplain,  and  Thomas  Aleyn  late  of 
London,  chaplain,  for  not  appearing  to  answer  William  Carpynter, 
chaplain,  touching  a  trespass,  Southampton. 

Richard  Grene  of  Polsham,  co.  Norfolk,  '  yoman,'  for  not  appearing 
to  answer  John  Hang  touching  a  debt  of  40s.  and  John  Curson, 
knight,  touching  a  trespass.  Norfolk. 

William  Candy  of  Lichirche,  co,  Derby,  '  husbondman,'  for  not 
appearing  before  the  king  at  Westminster  to  answer  Thomas  Hethcr 
touching  a  trespass.  Middlesex. 

Nicholas  Pole  late  of  London, '  gentilman,'  for  not  appearing  before 
Robert  Danby  and  his  fellows,  late  justices  of  the  Bench,  to  answer 
Richard  Darel!,  knight,  touching  a  trespass.  Wilts. 

Richard  Owede  late  of  Heverlond,  co.  Norfolk,  '  husbondman,'  for  not 
appearing  before  Jchn  Prysot  and  his  fellows,  justices  of  the  Bench 
of  the  late  king,  to  answer  a  plea  that  he  render  his  account  to 
Walter  Fornfyld  for  the  time  when  he  was  his  receiver.  Norfolk. 

Richard  Cobbell  of  Alcretou,  co,  Oxford,  '  husbondman,'  for  not 
appearing  before  Robert  Danby  and  his  fellows,  late  justices  of  the 
Bench,  to  answer  John  SamweU  alias  Samewell  touching  a  debt  of 
40s.  Berks. 

Henry  Plomtre  late  of  London,  *  gentilman,'  for  not  appearing  before 
John  Prysot  and  his  fellows,  justices  of  the  Bench  of  the  late  king, 
to  answer  John  Sutton  touching  a  debt  of  10/.  London. 

John  TrewcU  late  of  Holfortl,  co.  Somerset,  '  chapman,'  for  not 
appearing  before  Robert  Danby  and  his  fellows,  late  justices  of  the 
Bench  to  answer  William  Redeknapc,  citizen  and  mercer  of  London, 
and  John  Dunne,  citizen  and  mercer  of  London,  touching  a  debt  of 
11/.  10s.  8d.  Loudon. 

John  Talbot  of  Butley,  co,  Somerset,  '  yoman,'  and  Joan  his  wife,  late 
the  wife  of  John  Lyte,  executrix  of  his  will,  for  not  appearing  to 
answer  Ralph  Hosyer  touching  a  debt  of  40s.  Somerset. 


11  EDWARD  IV.— Part  I. 


257 


1471 .  Membrane  26 — cont. 

Nov.  6.  Edmund  Bokkyng  late  of  Ipswich,  co.  Suffolk,  esquire,  for  not 

Westminster.  appearing  to  answer  Marjory  late  the  wife  of  John  Walden  late  of 

Clare  touching  a  debt  of  251.  Middlesex. 

Nov.  G.  Walter  Rokes  late  of  Wynge,  co.  Buckingham,  chaplain,  for  not 

Westminster.  appearing  to  answer  Thomas  Mull  touching  a  debt  of  4/. 

Middlesex. 

Oct.  9.  John  Baneston  late  of  Appnrley,  co.  Gloucester,  '  husbondman,'  for 

Westminster.  not  appearing  to  answer  Thomas  Burford  touching  a  trespass. 

Gloucester. 

Nov.  6.  William  Herryson  late  of  Roughton  Holm,  co.  Norfolk,  chaplain,  for 

Westniinster.  not   appearing  to   answer   Richard   Roberdson  alias  Robertson 

touching  a  debt  of  20  marks.  Suffolk. 

William  Gylpyn  of  Sleddale,  co.  Westmoreland,  *  yoman,'  for  not 
appearing  to  answer  Richard  Wydevell,  knight,  touching  a  debt  of 
40/.  Northampton, 


Thurstan  Banastre  late  of  Ouchethorpe,  co.  York,  '  gentylman,'  alias 
late  of  Wakefeld,  co,  York,  for  not  appearing  before  John  Prysot 
and  his  fellows,  justices »of  the  Bench  of  the  late  king,  to  answer 
Giles  Banastre,  citizen  and  draper  of  London,  touching  a  debt  of 
40/.  and  before  Robert  Daiiby  and  his  fellows,  late  justices  of  the 
Bench,  to  answer  John  Porter,  citizen  and  *  draper '  of  London, 
touching  a  debt  of  4/.  \Qd,  London, 

Feb.].  Benedict  Good   of  Plymmouth,  co.  Devon,  *  marehaunt,'   for  not 

Westminster.  appearing  before  Robert  Danby  and  his  fellow?,  late  justices  of  the 

Bench,  to  answer  John  Waryng  touching  a  debt  of  15/.  5*.  Devon. 

Feb.  5,  John  Boton  of  Walyngford,  co.  Berks, '  chapman,'  for  not  api'caring 

Westminster.  before  John  PryFOt  and  his  fellows,  justices  of  the  Bench  of  the 

late  king,  <o  answer  Geoffrey  Feldyng,  citizen  and  alderman  of 
London,  touching  a  debt  of  485.  6(1.  London. 

Feb.  8.  Nicholas  Derby  late  of  Byskley,  co.  Norfolk,  '  gentihnan,'  alias  late  of 

Westminster.  'Shelfangcr,  co.  Norfolk,  estiuirc,  alias  late  of  Northlopham,  co. 

Norfolk,  for  not  appearing  before  Robert  Danby  and  his  fellows,  late 
justices  of  the  Bench,  to  answer  Matthew  Philip,  citizen,  gohlsniith 
andalderninn  of  London,  Walter  Stokys,  citizen  and  mercer  of  London, 
John  Hungcrford,  citizen  and  draper  of  London,  and  John  Shnk- 
burgh,  citizen  and  draper  of  London,  touching  debts  of  50/.,  100/, 
8/.  and  56s.  respectively,  Richard  Roos  alias  Rose,  citizen  and 
brewer  of  London,  touching  debts  of  51/.  and  12/.  and  Robert 
Bradshawe,  citizen  and  goldsmith  of  London,  touching  debts  of 
26/.  6*.  6t/.  and  6/.  2s.  Gd.  London. 

William  Julie  of  Berham,  co.  Kent,  '  wevore,'  for  not  appearing  to 
answer  John  Duuvers,  clerk,  touching  debts  of  40/.  and  100/. 

Middlesex. 


1471.  Membrane  25. 

April  20.  Grant  to  the  king's  servant  Humplu-ey  Blount  of  the  office  of  receiver 
Westminster,  of  the  lordship  of  Acton  Bnrnell  with  its  members  and  all  other  lands 
williin  the  county  of  Salop  lately  belonging  to  the  lord  of  Lovell  during 
the  minority  of  Francis,  son  and  heir  of  the  latter,  with  such  fees  and  in 
the  same  manner  as  he  occupied  the  office  before  the  king's  departure  from 
the  realm.  By  p.s. 

y  9G186.  R 


258 


CALENDAR  OF  PATENT  ROLLS. 


Membrane  25 — cont. 

General  pardon  to  George  Nevylle,  archbishop  of  York,  of  all  offences 
committed  by  him  before  13  April.    \_Fcedera.']  By  p.s. 

General  pardon  to  Henry  Loys  late  of  Nevyngton,  co.  Essex,  knight, 
alias  Henry  Lewys  late  of  London,  knight.  By  K. 

The  like  to  Thomas  Tunstall  late  of  Tunstall,  co.  York,  esquire,  alias 
late  of  London. 

Grant  to  Thomas  Cowton  of  tho  prebend  in  the  king's  collegiate  chapel 
of  St.  Stephen  within  tho  palace  of  Westminster  which  John  Willy, 
deceased,  lately  had.  By  K. 

Mandate  in  pursuance  to  the  dean  and  chapter. 

General  pardon  to  John  Aysscogh  of  Stalyngburgh,  co.  Lincoln,  esquire. 

By  K. 

The  like  to  Thomas  Worteley  of  Worteley,  co.  York,  esquire. 
General  pardon  to  Elizabeth,  lady  le  Scrope  of  London,  widow. 

By  p.s. 

Grant  to  Thomas  Cowton  of  the  prebend  in  the  king's  collegiate  chapel 
of  St.  Stephen  within  the  palace  of  Westminster  which  John  Willy, 
deceased,  lately  had.  By  K. 

Vacated  because  elsewhere  above. 

Grant  for  life  to  John  Hodgesou  of  Wakefeld  of  the  office  of  sealer 
{sigillatoris)  within  the  king's  lordship  of  Wakefeld,  which  the  marquis  of 
Montagu,  now  deceased,  had  of  the  king's  grant.  By  p.s.  [3140.] 

Grant,  during  pleasure,  to  the  king's  kinsman  Henry,  earl  of  Essex,  of 
the  office  of  treasurer  of  the  Exchequer,  in  the  same  manner  as  the  king's 
kinsman  John,  late  earl  of  Worcester,  late  treasurer.  By  K. 

Appointment,  during  pleasure,  of  John  Clerk  as  second  baron  of  the 
Exchequer,  with  the  accustomed  fees.  By  K. 

The  like  of  Brian  Roclyff  as  third  baron  of  the  Exchequer.  By  K. 

The  like  of  Thomas  Billyng  as  chief  justice  of  the  King's  Bench.  By  K. 

The  like  of  John  Nedeham,  knight,  as  one  of  the  justices  of  the  King's 
Bench.  By  K. 

The  like  of  William  Laken. 

The  like  of  Thomas  Bryan  as  chief  justice  of  the  Bench.  By  K. 

Vacated  because  the  king  granted  other  letters  patent  in  this  year. 
The  like  of  Thomas  Littilton  as  one  of  the  justices  of  the  Bench, 

ByK. 

The  like  of  the  following  : — 
Ri(;hard  Chok,  knight. 
Richard  Neel, 

  Grant  for  life  to  the  king's  kinsman  Henry  Percy,  earl  of  Novthumber- 

Westminster.  land,  of  the  offices  of  justice  of  the  forests  beyond  Trent  towards  tho  north 
and  the  constableship  of  the  king's  castle  of  Bamburgh,  with  the 
accustomed  fees  and  profits.  By  p.s. 

Tho  like  to  the  king's  servant  Thomas  Straunge,  one  of  the  yeoman  of 
the  crown,  for  his  goo.l  service  beyond  seas  and  in  the  realm,  of  6d,  daily 
for  his  fee  from  the  fee  farm  of  the  town  of  Shrewsbury,  as  David  Malpas 
had.  By  P  s- 


1471. 

April  19. 
AVestminster. 

April  21. 
Westminster, 


April  19. 
Westminster. 


April  22. 
Westminster. 


April  21. 
Westminster. 

April  19. 
Westminster. 


April  21. 
Westminster, 


April  22. 
Westminster. 


June  17. 
Westminster. 


May  29. 
Westminster. 

June  17. 

Westminster. 


.June 


June  13. 
Westminster 


II  EDWARD  IV.— Part  I. 


259 


1471. 

May  5. 

Westiuiuster, 


April  17. 
Westminster, 


April  18. 

Westiuiuster, 


April  26. 
Westminster. 


April  29. 
Westminster. 


May  9. 

Westminster. 


May  30. 

Westminster. 

June  3. 
Westminster. 

May  30. 
Westminster. 

July  4. 
Westminster. 

Aug.  19. 
Westminster. 

May  18. 

AVestmiuster. 

May  23. 
Westmiu.ster. 


May  22. 

Westminster. 

May  30. 
Westminster. 


Membrane  24. 

Grant  to  lllchard  Laug,  bishop  of  Kildare,  for  his  good  service  in 
Euglaiul  and  Ireland,  of  liie  custody  of  the  temporalities  of  the  arch- 
bi-shopric  of  Armagh  from  the  death  of  John  Boolle,  late  archbishop,  so 
long  as  they  shall  remain  in  the  king's  hands,  without  rendering  any 
account.  By  p.s. 

Appointment,  during  pleasure,  of  John  Warley  to  take  '  wlielers,' 
'  cartwrightes '  and  other  carpenters,  stone-cutters,  plumbers  and  other 
Avorkmen  for  the  works  of  the  king's  ordnance,  bumbards,  '  culverines,' 
*  f owelers,' '  serpentyues '  and  other  cannons  and  powder,  sulphur,  *  salt- 
petyr,'  stone,  iron,  lead  and  other  necessaries  for  them,  crossbows  and  bolts, 
bows,  arrows,  bowstrings,  *  langdebeves,'  lances,  '  gleyves '  and  hammers 
and  other  necessaries  and  carriage  for  the  same  and  horses  called 
'  hakeneys.' 

The  like  of  the  following  ; — 
William  Bygge. 
John  Brymston. 

Grant  to  the  king's  clerk  John  Alcok  of  the  deanery  of  the  king's  free 
chapel  or  college  of  St.  Stephen  within  the  palaco  of  Westminster,  void  by 
the  death  of  Master  Robert  Kirkeham,  last  dean.  By  K. 

Mandate  to  Th.  abbot  of  St.  Peters,  Westminster,  to  put  him  in 
possession  of  the  deanery. 

Grant,  during  pleasure,  to  Master  John  Alcok,  king's  clerk,  of  the 
office  of  keeper  of  tlie  rolls,  books,  writs  and  records  of  the  Chancery  and  the 
custody  of  the  House  of  Converts  for  his  habitation  and  a  tower  within  the 
Tower  of  London  appointed  by  the  king's  progenitors  of  ancient  time  for 
the  custody  of  the  said  rolls,  books,  writs  and  records,  witli  the  accustomed 
fees  and  profits.  By  C. 

Grant,  during  pleasure,  to  John  Draper  of  the  office  of  tronage  and 
pcsage  in  the  port  of  London  and  ports  and  places  adjacent,  receiving  the 
accustomed  fees.  By  bill  of  the  treasurer. 

The  like  to  the  following  in  the  ports  named  and  ports  and  places 
adjacent : — 

John  Sorell  in  the  port  of  Ipswich.  By  bill  of  the  treasurer, 

Richard  Cowton  in  the  port  of  Kyngeston  on  Hull. 

By  bill  of  the  treasurer. 

George  Radclyff,  esquire,  in  the  port  of  Boston. 

By  bill  of  the  treasurer. 

John  Cole  in  the  port  of  Sandwich.  By  bill  of  the  treasurer. 

Edmund  Talbot  in  the  port  of  Kyngeston  on  Hull. 

By  bill  of  the  treasui'er. 

General  pardon  to  John  Gylford  alicis  Gyldeford  alias  Guldford  alias 
Gilford  of  Rolvynden,  eo.  Kent,  knight.  By  K.  &  C. 

Appointment,  during  pleasure,  of  John  Luthyngton  as  receiver  of  all 
castles,  lordships,  manors,  lands  and  other  possessions  late  of  John,  lord 
Lovell,  deceased,  and  in  the  king's  hands  by  the  minority  of  Francis  his 
son  and  heir,  receiving  the  accustomed  fees  from  the  issues  of  the  office. 

By  bill  of  the  treasurer. 

Appointment,  during  good  behaviour,  of  Thomas  Urswyk  as  chief  baron 
of  the  Exchequer,  receiving  the  accustomed  fees.  By  K. 

General  pardon  to  William  Wayneflete,  bishop  of  Winchester.  [Fcedent.] 

By  K. 

i{  2 


260 


CALENDAR  OF  PATENT  ROLLS. 


1471 .  Membrane  24 — cont. 

May  29.        Licence  for  the  prior  and  convent  of  the  monastery  of  Mochelney,  of 
Westraiustcr.  the  order  of  St.  Benedict,  in  the  diocese  of  Bath  and  Wells,  to  elect  an 
abbot  in  the  place  of  William  Crukern,  deceased. 

April  2L  General  pardon  to  Richard  Scrope,  esquire,  of  all  offences  committed  by 
Westmiuster.  him  before  19  April.  By  p.s. 

June  3.        Presentation  of  Alexander  Lee  to  the  parish  church  of  St.  Nicholas 
"Westminster,  within  the  town  of  Calais,  in  the  diocese  of  Terouanne,  void  by  the  death 
of  John  Bredell,  last  parson.    The  letters  are  directed  to  Th.  cardinal 
archbishop  of  Canterbury. 


Membrane  23. 

June  22.       Grant  for  life  to  the  king's  servant  Thomas  Litton,  for  his  good  service 
Westminster,  beyond  the  seas  and  in  England,  of  the  office  of  keeper  of  the  gaol  within 
the  castle  of  York,  with  the  accustomed  fees.  By  p.s. 

June  22.        Appointment,  during  pleasure,  of  the  king's  kinsman  William,  earl  of 
Westmiuster.  Arundel,  as  lieutenant  of  the  Cinque  Ports  and  their  members,  the  liberties 
and  franchises  whereof  have  lately  been  taken  into  the  king's  hands  for 
certain  causes,  receiving  such  fees  as  any  other  lieutenant  had.         By  p.s. 

June  25.        Appointment,  until  25  December,  of  William  Mathewe,  yeoman  of  the 
Westminster,  carriage  of  the  household,   to  take  carts,  waggons,  horses  and  other 
necessaries  for  the  carriage  of  the  household. 

April  22.  General  pardon  to  Nicholas  Talbot  late  of  Skaylshawe,  co.  York, 
Westminster.  '  gentilman,'  alias  of  Warwick,  alias  of  London.  By  K. 

June  27.        Licence  for  the  sub-prior  and  convent  of  the  monastery  or  priory  and 
Westminster,  royal  free  chapel  of  St.  Bartholomew  in  Westsmythfeld  in  the  suburbs  of 
London,  of  the  order  of  St.  Augustine,  to  elect  a  prior  in  the  place  of 
Reginald  Colyer,' deceased.  By  p.s. 

June  25.        General  pardon  to  Richard  Bagge  of  Abyndon,  co.  Berks,  '  chapman,' 
Westminster,  ctlias  Richard  Pape,  '  grocer,'  of  all  offences  committed  by  him  before 
20  June  last.  By  p.s. 

June  27.       Grant  for  life  to  Robert  Don,  esquire,  of  the  oflBce  of  constable  of  the 
Westminster,  king's  castle  of  (Jardygan  in  South  "Wales,  with  the  accustomed  fees  and  all 
other  profits  from  the  issues  of  the  lordship  of  Cardygan  at  the  hands  of 
the  chamberlain'  of  South  Wales,  in  the  same  manner  as  William  Herbert, 
esquire,  had  in  his  lifetime.  By  p.s. 

June  29.        Grant  to  Thomas  Glowcestre  of  the  prebend  of  Underdown  in  the 
Westminster,  collegiate  church  of  St.  Mary  Magdalen,  Bruggenorth,  co.  Salop.      By  K. 
Mandate  in  pursuance  to  the  dean  of  the  church. 

June  27.       General  pardon  to  Thomas  Wilde.  By  p.s. 

Westminster. 

June  21.        Grant  for  life  to  Master  John  Gunthorpe,  king's  clerk,  of  the  office  of 
Westmiuster.  clerk  of  the  Parliament,  with  the  accustomed  profits,  and  40/.  yearly  from 
Easter  last  from  the  issues  of  the  hanaper.  By  p.s. 

Juno  29.        Grant  to  the  king's  brother  Richard,  duke  of  Gloucester,  and  the  heirs 
Westminster,  male  of  his  body  of  the  castles,  manors  and  lordships  of  Midelbam,  Shiref- 
hoton  and  Penreth  with  all  reversions,  services,   knights'  fees,  dowers, 
advowsons,  members  and  appurtenances  in  the  county  of  York.         By  K. 
Vacated  because  otherwise  below. 

July  2.  Grant  for  life  to  the  king's  servitor  Alexander  Mason  of  the  office  of 
Westminster,  being  one  of  the  king's  minstrels  and  10  marks  yearly  for  his  office  and 


11  EDWARD  IV.— Paet  I. 


2G1 


2471,  Membrane  23 — cont. 

10  marks  yearly  for  his  regard  from  Easter  last  from  the  issues  of  tlie 
county  of  Cumberland.  By  K, 

Mandate  in  pursuance  to  the  sheriff. 


Membrane  22. 

July  3.        Pardon  to  John  Morton,  clerk,  doctor  of  laws,  of  all  offences  committed 
Westminster,  by  him  and  all  debts,  amercements,  issues  and  forfeitures  due  to  the  king 
before  17  June  last.  By  p.s. 

July  5.  Inspeximus  and  confirmation  to  John  Pilkyngton,  knight,  of  a  writing  of 
Westminster.  Thomas,  cardinal  archbishop  of  Canterbury  and  legate  of  the  apostolic  see, 
John  Melton,  knight,  Thomas  Buxhall,  clerk,  and  Henry  Soteliill,  learned 
in  the  law,  dated  25  June,  II  Edward  IV,  granting  to  him  for  life  the 
reversion  of  the  offices  of  constable  of  the  castle  of  Sandall,  master  forester 
of  Wakefelde  and  steward  of  the^lordship  of  Wakefelde,  on  the  death  of  John 
Sayvell,  knight,  with  tho  accustomed  fees  from  the  issues  of  tlie  lordship  of 
Wakefelde,  iiichard,  late  duke  of  York,  having  enfeoffed  them  and  Kiciiard, 
late  earl  of  Warwick,  William  Wolflete,  clerk,  and  Tliomas  Coltc,  now 
deceased,  of  all  his  castles,  manors,  lordships,  lands,  rents  and  services  in 
the  county  of  York  to  pay  his  debts  and  fulfil  his  will. 

By  p.s.  and  for  6*.  6(/.  paid  in  the  hnnaper. 

July  11.        General  pardon  to  William  Coote  late  of  Conyngcsby  by  Tateslialle,  co. 
Westminster.  Lincoln,  'gcntilman,'  alias  late  of  Threkyngham,  co.  Lincoln,  of  all  offences 
committed  by  him  before  7  July.  By  p.s. 

July  6.        General  pardon  to  John  Water  alias  Walter,  *  harald  of  armys,'  called 
Westminster.  <  Chcstre  '  herald  of  arms,  alias  called  '  Warrewyk,'  one  of  the  heralds  of 
arms,  of  all  offences  committed  by  him  before  1  July  last.  By  p.s. 

July  11.  Grant  to  the  king's  brother  John,  duke  of  Suffolk,  and  the  king's  sister 
Westminster.  Elizabeth  his  wife  of  the  custody  of  all  lordships,  manors,  lands  and 
possessions  late  of  John  Lovell,  knight,  lord  of  Lovell,  deceased,  tenant  in 
chief  by  knight  service,  during  the  minority  of  Francis  Lovell  his  son  and 
heir,  with  advowsons,  knights'  fees,  courts  leet,  views  of  frank-pledge,  fairs, 
markets,  parks,  warrens  and  profits,  and  the  custody  and  marriage  of  the 
said  Francis  without  disparagement,  and  so  from  heir  to  heir,  finding  a 
competent  sustenance  for  the  heir  and  supporting  all  houses,  enclosures  and 
buildings,  provided  tliat  this  grant  shall  not  extend  to  any  possessions 
which  may  afterwards  descend  to  the  heir.  By  p.s. 

July  12.        Grant  for  life  to  the  king's  servitor  Geoffrey  Warton,  esquire,  of  the 
Westminster,  office  of  one  of  the  king's  Serjeants  at  arms  and  12(/.  daily  from  Michaelmas 
last,  from  which  day  he  has  occupied  the  office,  from  the  farm  and  issues  of 
the  town  of  Kyngeston  on  Thames,  co.  Surrey,  at  the  hands  of  tho  bailiffs 
of  the  town  or  the  sheriff  of  Surrey  or  Sussex.  By  p.e. 

July  12.        The  like  to  the  king's  servant  John  Goldston,  for  his  good  service 
Westminster,  beyond  seas  and  in  all  the  king's  battles  in  England,  of  the  office  of  one  of 
the  king's  Serjeants  at  arms,  with  wages  of  12(/.  daily  from  the  issues  of  the 
county  of  Southampton  and  a  livery  of  the  suit  of  esquires  of  the 
household  yearly  at  Christmas  at  the  great  wardrobe.  By  p.s. 

July  10.  General  pardon  to  John  Chedworth,  bishop  of  Lincoln,  of  all  offences 
Westminster,  committed  by  him  before  30  June  last.  By  p.a. 


Membrane  21. 


June  8.  General  pardon  to  Richard  Hatton  of  Ludlowe,  co.  Salop,  *  merchant,'  of 
Westminster,  ail  offences  committed  by  him  before  5  Juno.  By  p.s. 


262 


CALENDAR  OF  PATENT  ROLLS. 


1471. 

June  10. 
Westminster. 

June  3. 
Westminster. 

June  8. 
Westminster. 

June  7. 
Westminster. 

June  4. 
Westminster. 

June  7. 
Westminster. 

June  11. 
Westminster. 


June  12. 
Westminster. 


June  14, 
Westminster. 


Mcay  18. 
Westminster. 


June  17. 
Westminster. 


June  14. 
Westminster. 

June  21. 
Westminster. 

June  22. 
Westminster. 

June  25. 

Westminster. 

June  21. 
Westminster. 

July  3. 
Westminster. 


Membrane  21 — cont. 

The  like  to  Thomas  Faucomberge,  esquire,  alias  '  gentilman,'  of  all 
offences  against  the  statutes  of  cloths  and  capes  committed  by  him  before 
22  May.  By  p.s. 

The  like  to  John  Davies  of  Dursley,  co.  Gloucester,  '  marchant,'  alias 
*  clothier,'  of  all  treasons  and  offences  committed  by  him  before  17  May. 

By  p.s. 

General  pardon  to  John  Say  of  Base,  knight.  By  p.s. 

The  like  to  John  Throkmarton  late  of  Haresfeld,  co.  Gloucester,  esquire, 
alias  late  of  London,  '  gentilman,'  of  all  offences  committed  by  him  before 
3  June.  By  p.s.. 

General  pardon  to  Robert  Nevyle.  By  K. 

The  like  to  Elizabeth  Russell  of  Straynesham,  co.  Worcester,  '  widew,' 
of  all  offences  committed  by  her  before  5  June.  By  p.s. 

Grant  for  life  to  John,  earl  of  Wiltshire,  of  the  ofiB.ce  of  chief  butler 
of  England,  receiving  the  accustomed  fees  from  the  issues  of  his  office 
with  all  other  profits,  in  the  same  manner  as  Ralph  Boteler,  knight,  lord 
of  Sudeley,  or  John  Wenlok,  knight,  had.  By  p.s. 

Grant,  during  good  behaviour,  to  the  king's  clerk  aud  councillor  Master 
Richard  Martyn  of  the  office  of  chancellor  of  the  earldom  of  March  with 
the  custody  of  the  seal  of  the  earldom,  with  such  fees  as  Thomas  Herbert 
had  in  the  same  office  from  the  issues  of  the  earldom  and  all  other  profits. 

By  p.s. 

Appointment,  during  pleasure,  of  Richard  Alberton  as  deputy  of  .John, 
earl  of  Wiltshire,  chief  butler  of  England,  in  the  port  of  Bristol  aud  ports 
and  places  adjacent.      By  John,  earl  of  Wiltshire,  chief  butler  of  England. 

Grant  for  life  to  the  king's  brother  Richard,  duke  of  Gloucester,  of  the 
office  of  great  chamberlain  of  England,  in  the  same  manner  as  Richard,  late 
earl  of  Warwick,  receiving  such  fees  as  the  said  earl  had  at  the  receipt  of 
the  Exchequer,  with  all  other  profits.  By  p.s. 

Vacated  by  surrender  and  cancelled,  because  the  king  granted  the 
office  to  George,  duke  of  Clarence,  by  other  letters  patent  on  20  3£ay, 
12  Edioard  IV. 

Appointment,  during  pleasure,  of  Thomas  Reynold  as  deputy  of  the 
king's  kinsman  John,  earl  of  Wiltshire,  cliief  butler  of  England,  in  the 
port  of  Suthampton  and  ports  and  places  adjacent. 

By  bill  of  the  chief  butler. 

The  like  of  the  following  : — 

Thomas  Gale  in  the  port  of  Dertmouth. 

Edmund  Talbot,  esquire,  in  the  port  of  Kyngeston  on  Hull. 

John  Gilbert  in  the  port  of  Briggewater. 

John  Rogers  in  the  port  of  Sandwich. 

Thomas  Lewys  in  the  port  of  London. 

William  Knoyll  in  the  port  of  Pole. 

Thomas  Garth  in  the  port  of  IpsM'ich. 


11  EDWARD  IV.—Part  I. 


263 


1471. 

July  6. 
Westminster. 

July  9. 
Westminster, 

Oct.  18. 
Westminster. 

Nov.  27. 
Westminster. 

1472. 

Feb.  5. 
Westminster. 

1471. 

June  2 1 . 
Westminster. 

June  20. 
Westminster. 


June  20. 
Westmiustcr. 

June  20. 
Westminster. 

May  5. 
Westminster. 


Membrane  21 — cont. 
John  Skelton,  esquire,  in  the  port  of  Boston. 

Henry  Rouse  in  the  port  of  Ipswich. 

Simon  Burton  in  the  port  of  Lynne. 

Peter  Courteney,  clerk,   in   the   ports  of  ExccBtre,  Dartmouth, 
Tyngmouth  and  Exmouth,  co.  Devon, 

Thomas  Bere  in  the  port  of  Newcastle  on  Tyne, 


Presentation  of  Edward  Betriche  to  the  parish  church  of  Drayton 
Passelewe,  in  the  diocese  of  Lincoln,  void  by  the  resignation  of  John 
Burton,  last  parson. 

Grant  for  life  to  the  king's  servant  John  Penley,  one  of  the  yeomen  of 
the  king's  chamber,  of  the  ofBcc  of  one  of  the  foresters  within  the  forest  of 
Purbyke,  co.  Dorset,  receiving  such  fees  as  Henry  Fenne  had  from  the 
issues  of  the  counties  of  Somerset  and  Dorset.  By  p.s. 

Signification  to  R.  bishop  of  Bath  and  Wells  of  the  royal  assent  to  the 
election  of  John  Bracy,  monk  of  tiie  monastery  of  Mochclney,  of  the  order 
of  St.  Benedict,  as  abbot  of  that  place. 

Grant  for  life  to  John  Nesfeld  of  the  oflice  of  riding  forester  of  the 
forest  of  Galtras,  co.  York,  with  the  accustomed  fees.  By  K. 

Presentation  of  Robert  Brampton  to  the  parish  clinrch  of  Ilighanger, 
CO.  Essex,  in  the  diocese  of  London,  void  by  the  death  of  Master  William 
Curteys,  last  parson.  By  p.s. 


July  5. 
Westminster. 


July  4. 
Westminster. 


July  G. 
Westminster. 


Membrane  20. 

Grant  for  life  to  the  king's  esquire  John  Waynflcte  of  the  office  of  one 
of  tiie  king's  sergeants  at  arms  in  the  place  of  William  Eustace,  with  the 
accustomed  fees  from  the  issues  of  the  county  of  Middlesex  and  all  other 
profits  and  a  livery  yearly  at  Christmas  at  the  great  wardrobe  as  other 
Serjeants  at  arms  have.  By  p.s. 

The  like  to  the  king's  esquire  Peter  Hons  of  the  office  of  coroner  of  (he 
court  of  the  niarshaisea  of  the  household,  to  be  exorcised  by  himself  or  his 
deputy  William  Dene,  learned  in  the  law,  or  other  sullicient  deputy,  with 
the  accustomed  fees.  By  p.s. 

Pardon  to  John  Rokes  of  Sliirborii,  co.  Dorset,  '  gciililman,'  admi- 
nistrator of  the  goods  late  of  John  Northland  late  of  Little  Witnam, 
CO.  Berks,  clerk,  who  died  intestate,  of  his  outlawries  in  the  county  of 
Leicester  for  not  appearing  before  Robert  Danby  an<l  his  fellows,  late 
justices  of  the  Bench,  to  answer  a  plea  that  he  render  20/.  to  Thomas 
Palmer,  esquire,  and  to  satisfy  the  latter  of  40/.  wliieh  he  had  recovered 
against  him  and  10  marks  adjudged  to  liim  for  his  dauutges,  the  said  Thomas 
having  appeared  in  the  said  court  on  4  July  last  and  acknowledged  him.self 
satisfied  of  the  said  40/.  and  damages,  and  the  said  John  having  surrendered 
to  the  Flete  prison,  as  I'homas  Bryan,  chief  justice  of  the  Bench,  has 
certified. 

Pardon  to  Miles  Willesthorpe,  late  cscheator  in  the  county  of  York,  of 
all  offences  committed  by  him  and  all  fines,  amercements,  debts,  accounts 
and  arrears  duo  from  him  to  the  king.  By  p.s. 


264 


CALENDAE  OF  PATENT  ROLLS. 


1471. 


June  17. 
Westminster. 


July  11. 
Westminster. 


July  6. 
Westminster. 

June  7. 
Westminster. 


June  17. 
Westminster. 


Membrane  20 — cont. 

Grant  for  life  to  Henry  Thwaytes  of  a  tun  of  red  wine  of  Gascony  yearly 
at  All  Saints  in  the  port  of  Kyngeston  on  Hull  from  the  king's  prises  of 
wines  there.  By  p.s. 

Grant  to  John  Nedeham,  knight,  one  of  the  justices  of  the  King's 
Bench,  for  the  better  maintenance  of  his  estate  and  his  expenses  in  office, 
of  110  marks  yearly  at  the  hands  of  the  clerk  or  keeper  of  the  hanaper  or 
the  customers  in  the  ports  of  London,  Bristol  and  Kyngeston  on  Hull 
according  to  the  form  of  an  act  in  Parliament  at  Westminster,  18  Henry  VI, 
and  106s.  \\\d.  and  the  sixth  part  of  \d.  yearly  at  Christmas  for  a  robe 
and  fur  for  the  same  and  63s.  Gd.  yearly  at  Whitsuntide  for  a  robe  and  lining 
for  the  same. 

Whereas  Ralph  Asshton,  knight,  on  20  July,  10  Edward  IV,  came 
before  the  barons  of  the  Exchequer  and  gave  it  to  be  understood  that  John 
Dey,  then  one  of  the  collectors  of  the  customs  and  subsidies  in  the  port  of 
Kyngeston  on  Hull,  and  William  Wythornwyk  on  20  November  then  last 
past  in  the  said  port  seized  to  the  king's  use  three  ships  laden  with  wools, 
lead  and  other  merchanJise  to  the  value  of  300/.  viz.  one  ship  called  the  Anne 
of  Hull  and  two  others  whose  names  and  merchandise  were  then  unknown 
to  him,  because  they  were  laden  with  merchandise  to  be  taken  to  foreign 
parts  without  being  customed  or  coketted,  and  the  king  is  informed  that 
the  said  John  and  William  did  not  seize  the  said  ships  or  any  parcel  of  the 
merchandise  except  merchandise  to  the  value  of  40  marks  and  the  said 
John,  who  is  now  deceased,  in  his  lifetime  delivered  40  marks  to  Richard 
Fowler  for  the  king's  use  for  the  price  of  the  merchandise,  the  king 
hereby  pardons  to  Alice,  late  the  wife  of  the  said  John,  and  executrix  of 
Lis  will,  and  the  said  William  all  actions  on  this  account.  By  p.s. 

General  pardon  to  Nicholas  Saintloo  of  Sutton,  co.  Somerset,  knight,  late 
esquire,  of  all  offences  committed  by  him  before  2  July.  By  p.s. 

Grant  to  William  Laken,  one  of  the  justices  of  the  King's  Bench,  for 
the  better  maintenance  of  his  estate  and  his  expenses  in  office,  of  110  marks 
yearly  at  the  hands  of  the  clerk  or  keeper  of  the  hanaper  or  the  cnstomei's 
in  the  ports  of  London,  Bristol  and  Kyngeston  on  Hull  according  to  the 
form  of  an  act  of  Parliament  at  Westminster,  18  Henry  VI,  and  106s.  \  \\d. 
and  the  sixth  part  of  \d.  yearly  at  Christmas  for  a  robe  and  fur  for  the  same 
and  63s.  6f7.  yearly  at  Whitsuntide  for  a  robe  and  lining  for  the  same. 

The  like  to  Thomas  Littelton,  one  of  the  justices  of  the  Bench. 


Membrane  19. 

July  11.        Grant  to  William  Parre  and  John  Parre,  knights,  and  the  heirs  male  of 
Westminster,  their  bodies  of  the  castles,  manors  and  lordships  of  Pcndragon,  Burgh, 
Appilby,  Burgham,  Mallarstange  and  Whynfell,  the  manor  and  lordsiiip 
of  Kerkebystephen  and  the  town  of  Wynton,  co.  Westmoreland,  with  their 
members  with  knights'  fees,  advowsons  and  services  of  free  tenants. 

By  p.s. 

July  8.  Grant  for  life  to  the  king's  servant  Roland  Thornburgh  of  the  office  of 
Westminster,  porter  of  the  king's  castle  of  Carlisle  with  the  accustomed  fees,  in  the  same 
manner  as  Otewel  Worsley  held  the  same.  By  p.s. 

July  23.  Presentation  of  Richard  Leyty  to  the  parish  church  of  Seyntcryde,  in  the 
Westminster,  diocese  of  Exeter. 

July  23.        Grant  for  life  to  the  king's  servant  Edmund  Rotheney,  for  his  good 
Westminster,  service  and  expenses  in  England  and  beyond  the  seas,  of  the  office  of  the 
custody  of  the  king's  woods  of  Felwode  and  Kyngeswode,  co.  Gloucester, 


11  EDWARD  IV.— Part  I. 


265 


1471. 


July  18. 
Westminster. 


July  29. 
Westminster. 


July  29. 
Westminster. 


July  29. 
Westiiiiiister. 


I  July  27. 
Westminster. 


July  28. 
Westminster. 


July  28. 

Westminster. 


Aug.  12. 
Westminster. 


Membrane  19 — cont. 

which  William  Blount  lately  hatl,  with  the  accustomed  fees  and  wages  and 
all  other  profits.  By  p.s. 

The  like  to  John  Prinket  of  the  office  of  crier  in  the  King's  Bench,  which 
Robert  Stathom  lately  had,  receiving  the  accustomed  fees.  By  p.s. 

Mandate  to  John  Stokton,  mayor  of  the  city  of  London  and  escheator  in 
the  same  city,  for  the  restitution  of  the  temporalities  of  the  priory  of 
St.  Bartholomew  in  Westsmythfield,  London,  to  Richard  Pulter,  canon  of  the 
priory,  whose  election  as  prior  Thomas,  bishop  of  London,  has  confirmed 
and  whose  fealty  the  king  has  taken.  By  p.s. 

The  like  to  the  escheators  in  the  following  counties  : — 
Buckingham. 
Essex  and  Hertford. 
Middlesex. 

Writ  de  intendeiido  in  pursuance  to  the  tenants. 

Grant  for  life  to  the  king's  servant  Maurice  Gcthyn,  for  his  good 
service  in  attending  upon  the  king  beyond  seas  and  in  all  his  conflicts 
and  journeys  in  England,  of  the  office  of  one  of  the  king's  serjeants  at 
arms  and  that  he  shall  be  attendant  on  the  speaker  of  Parliament,  as  John 
Bury  lately  was,  with  wages  of  \2d.  daily  from  the  issues  of  the  county 
of  Lincoln  and  a  livery  of  the  suit  of  esquires  of  the  household  yearly  at 
Christmas  at  the  great  wardrobe.  By  p.s. 

Grant  to  Edward  Underwode  of  the  prebend  of  Underdowne  in  the 
collegiate  church  of  St.  Mary  Magdalen,  Bruggenorth,  co.  Salop,  void  by  the 
resignation  of  Sir  Thomas  Downe.  By  p.s. 

Mandate  in  pursuance  to  the  dean. 

Grant  to  the  king's  orator  brother  John  Bury  of  the  custody  of  the 
king's  chapel  of  St.  George  within  the  king's  tower  at  the  town  of  Suth- 
ampton  and  10  marks  yearly  for  life  for  his  salary  an  l  sustenance  from  the 
customs  and  subsidies  in  the  port  of  the  town,  for  the  celebration  by 
himself  or  another  suitable  person  of  divine  service  for  the  good  estate  of 
the  king  and  his  consort  Elizabeth,  queen  of  England,  and  the  souls  of  the 
king's  progenitors.  By  p.s. 

Grant  for  life  to  the  king's  servant  Peter  Wratton,  one  of  the  grooms  of 
the  wardrobe  of  the  king's  beds,  of  tiie  office  of  the  water  bailiwick  of  the 
town  of  Bristol  with  the  accustomed  fees  and  all  other  profits,  in  the 
same  manner  as  Richard  Crawford.  By  p.g.  [3247.] 

The  like  to  the  king's  servant  Richard  Apslee  of  the  office  of  one  of  the 
king's  Serjeants  at  arms  Avith  wages  of  12</.  daily,  as  Richard  Lillyug  had, 
from  Easter  last,  from  which  time  he  has  occupied  the  office,  from  the  farm 
and  issues  of  the  subsidy  and  uluage  of  cloth  and  a  moieiy  of  the  for- 
feiture of  the  same  in  the  town  and  suburbs  of  Bristol  and  a  livery  of  the 
suit  of  esquires  of  the  household  yearly  at  Christmas  at  the  great  wardrobe. 

By  p.s. 

Mandate  in  pursuance  to  the  farmers  of  the  said  subsidy. 

Signification  to  J.  bishop  of  Lincoln  of  the  royal  assent  to  the  election  of 
William  Ramsey,  monk  of  the  monastery  of  Peterborough,  as  abbot  of 
that  place.  By  p.s. 

Presentation  of  Ricluird  Mayhow  to  the  parish  church  of  St.  Thomas 
Martyr,  Wynchelsee,  in  the  dioceso  of  Chichester,  void  by  the  death  of  John 
Colvile,  last  parson. 

Appointment,  during  pleasure,  of  Robert  Cristian  as  keeper  of  the  town 
of  Hithe  and  its  members,  the  liberties  and  franchises  of  which  have  been 
taken  into  the  king's  hands,  with  full  power  of  governance,  provided  that 


266 


CALENDAR  OF  PATENT  ROLLS. 


1471.  Membrane  19 — eont. 

this  shall  not  be  to  the  prejudice  of  the  king's  kinsman  Thomas,  cardinal 
archbishop  of  Canterbury,  or  his  successors.  By  p.s. 

The  like  of  John  Tuder  as  keeper  of  the  town  of  Romeney  and  its 
members.  By  p.s. 

Aug.  16.       Presentation  of  John  de  Villario,  chaplain,  to  the  parish  church  of 
Westminster.  Pettam,  in  the  diocese  of  Terouanne,  void  by  the  death  of  Thomas  Martyn, 
last  parson.    The  letters   are   directed  to  Th.  cardinal  archbishop  of 
Canterbury. 


Membrane  18. 


July  14. 
Westminster. 


July  5. 
Westminster. 


July  16. 

Westminster. 


July  16. 
Westminster. 

July  12. 
Westminster, 


July  16. 
Westminster. 


Grant  to  the  king's  brother  Richard,  duke  of  Gloucester,  and  the  heirs 
male  of  his  body  of  the  castles,  manors  and  lordships  of  Midelham  and 
Scyrefhoton,  co.  York,  and  the  castle  and  lordship  of  Fenreth,  co.  Cumber- 
land, with  their  members  and  all  otlier  lordships,  manors  and  lands  in  those 
counties  which  were  entailed  to  Richard  Neville,  late  earl  of  Warwick,  and 
the  heirs  male  of  his  body  or  any  ancestor  whose  heir  male  he  was  in  like 
manner,  with  all  knights'  fees,  advowsons,  members,  hamlets,  meadows, 
feedings,  pastures,  fisheries,  moors,  marshes,  turbaries,  forests,  chaces, 
parks,  woods,  warrens,  hundreds,  fairs,  markets,  free  customs,  wards, 
marriages,  escheats  and  services  of  tenants.  By  K. 

Grant  for  life  to  John  Audelay,  knight,  lord  of  Audelay,  of  the  office  of 
master  of  the  king's  dogs  called  '  hereres,'  receiving  for  his  own  wages  12(7, 
daily  from  Easter  last  from  the  issues  of  the  counties  of  Bedford  and 
Buckingham  and  also  wages  for  the  king's  huntsmen  and  for  the  expenses 
of  one  horse  and  puture  for  dogs,  viz.  4.d.  daily  for  a  yeoman  '  barners,'  ^\d. 
daily  for  the  same  yeoman  for  a  horse  in  his  custody,  2d.  daily  for  each 
of  two  yeomen  'berners'  and  two  yeomen  '  veaulcres,'  \\d.  daily  for 
each  of  two  grooms  of  the  same  office,  and  daily  for  puture  of  each  of 
36  running  dogs  and  9  greyhounds,  from  the  issues  of  the  subsidy  and 
ulnage  of  cloth  and  a  moiety  of  the  forfeiture  of  the  same  in  the  counties 
of  Somerset  and  Dorset,  with  all  other  profits  pertaining  to  the  office,  in 
the  same  manner  as  John  Wroth,  esquire,  had.  By  p.s. 

Mandate  to  the  escheator  in  the  county  of  Somerset  for  the  restitution  of 
the  temporalities  of  the  abbey  of  SS.  Peter  and  Paul,  Mochelney,  of  the 
order  of  St.  Benedict,  to  John  Bracy,  monk  of  the  monastery,  whose 
election  as  abbot  Robert,  bishop  of  Bath  and  Wells,  has  confirmed  and 
whose  fealty  the  king  has  ordered  to  be  taken  by  the  abbot  of  Atheluey. 

Writ  de  intendendo  in  pursuance  to  the  tenants. 

Licence  for  the  prior  and  convent  of  the  monastery  of  Peterborough  to 
elect  an  abbot  in  the  place  of  Richard  Asshton,  resigned.  By  p.s. 

Gi'ant  for  life  to  the  king's  servant  Thomas  Crescy  of  the  offiico  of 
keeper  of  the  beds  within  the  king's  castle  of  Windescrc,  co.  Berks,  from 
14  April  last,  from  which  time  he  has  occupied  the  ofiice,  receiving  the 
accustomed  fees  for  himself  as  well  as  for  a  groom  under  him  from  the 
issues  of  the  king's  lordships  or  manors  of  St.  Margaret  Strettcn  and 
]Middellon  Brymmesfeld,  co.  Wilts,  with  all  other  accustomed  profits,  as 
Giles  Frensshe  had  in  the  year  22  Richard  II.  or  John  Austyn,  deceased, 
lately  had.  By  p.s. 

Grant  for  life  to  Robert  Michelson  of  Hull,  Avho  w^is  'lodesman' 
(naiiclerus  et  duc(or)  in  the  king's  ship  called  le  Antony  at  the  time  when 
the  king  took  the  ship  in  Seland  to  come  to  the  realm,  of  an  annuity  of 
1005.  from  the  customs  and  subsidies  in  the  port  of  Kyngeston  on  Hull. 

By  p.s.  [3218.] 


11  EDWARD  IV.— Part  I. 


207 


1471.  Membrane  18 — cont. 

July  10.       General  pardon  to  Thomas  Kemp,  bishop  of  London,  of  all  offences 
Westminster,  committed  by  him  before  3  July,  provided  that  this  do  not  extend  to  the 
escape  of  Thomas  Martyn,  clerk  convicted  of  felony,  from  his  custody. 
[^FcederaJ]  By  p.s. 

July  4.  General  pardon  to  John  Bernard  of  the  county  of  Northampton,  esquire, 
Westminster,  of  all  offences  committed  by  him  before  25  June.  By  p.s. 

July  19.  The  like  to  John  Arundell  of  Lanhern,  co.  Cornwall,  knight,  of  all 
Westminster,  offences  committed  by  him  before  13  July.  By  p.s. 

July  20.  Grant  for  life  to  the  king's  servitor  Nicholas  Keye,  yeoman  of  the  king's 
Westminster,  leash  (veltrum),  of  the  custody  of  the  new  park  of  the  castle  of  Wyndesore, 
with  wages  of  4d.  daily  from  the  issues  of  the  castle  and  lordship  of 
Wyndesore  and  all  other  profits,  in  lieu  of  a  like  grant  to  the  king's  servant 
William  Evyngton  by  letters  patent  dated  28  August,  4  Edward  IV, 
sun-endered.  By  p.s.  [3235.] 

July  22.        Presentation  of  Nicholas  Rudliale  to  the  parish  church  of  Ilorsford, 
Westminster,  in  the  diocese  of  Norwich,  void  by  the  death  of  Richard  Brooke,  last 
parson. 


Membrane  17. 

June  29.  General  pardon  to  John  Shirwod,  archdeacon  of  Richmond,  of  all 
Westminster,  offences  committed  by  him  before  24  June.  By  p.s. 

July  2.         Presentation  of  Robert  Garnett,  parson  of  the  parish  church  of  Segliston, 
Westminster,  in  the  diocese  of  York,  to  the  parish  church  of  Gosford,  of  the  jurisdiction 
of  John  Shirwode,  archdeacon  of  Richmond,  on  an  exchange  of  benefices 
with  William  Egremond. 

July  1.  Exemplification,  at  the  request  of  the  burgesses  of  the  town  of  Malmes- 
Westminstcr.  bury,  of  letters  patent  dated  1  March,  1  Edward  IV,  inspecting  and 
confirming  to  them  a  charter  dated  2  July,  12  Henry  IV  \^C/iartcr  Roll, 
12  Ilcnry  IV,  No.  1.],  inspecting  and  confirming  letters  patent  dated 
28  November,  5  Richard  II,  inspecting  and  confirming  a  charter  of  king 
Athelbtan.  These  letters  have  been  casually  lost,  as  John  Fryse  has  made 
oath  in  Chancery,  and  will  be  surrendered  if  found. 

July  14.        General  pardon  to  Robert  Ingilton  of  Thorncton,  co.  Buckingham, 
Westminster,  'jentilman,'  alias  late  of  Ijondon,  late  one  of  tlie  justices  of  the  jjcaco  in 
the  county  of  Buckingham,  of  all  offences  committed  by  him  and  all 
alienations  and  perquisitions  of  land  without  licence.  By  p.s. 

July  21.        Grant,  for  200  marks  paid  to  the  king,  to  Robert  Alcok,  merchant,  and 
Westminster,  his  executors  and  assigns  of  a  ship  called  le  Calanla  of  Spain,  of  which  the 
king's  kinsman  Antony,  carl  of  Ryviers,  Avas  cai)tain,  and  which  is  at 
present  in  the  port  of  Kyngestou  on  Hull,  witli  all  its  gear.  By  K. 

July  27.        Grant  to  the  king's  councillor  Richard  IMartyn  of  a  canonry  and  prebend 
Westminster,  in  the  king's  free  chapel  of  St.  Stephen  within  the  palaco  of  Westminster, 
void  by  the  death  of  John  Cressy,  last  incumbent.  By  p.s. 

Mandate  in  pursuance  to  the  dean  of  tlie  chapel. 
July  30.        General  pardon  to  John  liaise,  bishop  of  Coventry  and  Lichfield,  of  all 
Westminster,  offences  committed  by  him  before  25  July     \_Fceclcra .'\  By  p.s. 

Aug.  9.  Grant  for  life  to  Thomas  Taverham,  servant  of  the  king's  kinsman  the 
Westminster,  earl  of  Northumberland,  of  the  oftico  of  clerk  of  all  returns  of  writs  made 
in  the  castle  within  tlie  city  of  York  and  elscAvhere  within  the  county  of  York, 
with  all  fees  pertaining  to  the  office  at  the  hands  of  the  sheriff  of  the 
county  from  the  issues  of  the  office,  in  the  same  manner  as  John  Shirwode 
of  the  said  city  had.  By  p.s,  [3269.] 


268 


CALENDAR  OF  PATENT  ROLLS. 


Membrane  17 — cont. 
Presentation  of  Edmund  Broghton,  chaplain,  succentor  of  tlie  canons  in 
the  cathedral  church  of  York,  to  the  parish  church  of  Gosforth,  of  the  juris- 
diction of  John  Shirwode,  archdeacon  of  Richmond,  on  an  exchange  of 
benefices  with  Robert  Garnet. 

Aug.  15.       Mandate  to  all  to  permit  John  Rose,  born  in  the  town  of  Lowmaban  in 
Westminster.  Scotland,  dwelling  at  Beverley  in  England,  who  has  taken  an  oath  of  fealty, 
to  inhabit  the  realm  peaceably  and  enjoy  his  goods. 


1471. 

Aug.  12. 
Westminster. 


Membrane  16. 


June  29. 
Westminster. 


June  1. 
Westminster. 

June  4. 
Westminster. 

June  5. 
Westminster. 

June  6. 
Westminster. 

June  6. 
Westminster. 

June  7. 

Westminster. 

June  10. 
Westminster. 

June  12, 
Westminster. 

Oct.  3. 
Westminster. 

Dec.  3. 
Westminster. 

1472. 

Feb.  12. 
Westminster. 

1471. 

Nov.  11. 
Westminster. 


Appointment,  during  pleasure,  of  John  Stanford  as  controller  of  the  great 
and  petty  custom,  the  subsidy  of  wools,  hides  and  wool-fells  and  the  subsidy 
of  the  3s.  in  the  tun  and  the  12^.  in  the  pound  in  the  port  of  Pole  and 
ports  and  places  adjacent,  receiving  the  accustomed  fees,  provided  that  he 
execute  the  office  in  person,  with  the  custody  of  one  part  of  the  coket  seal. 

By  bill  of  the  treasurer. 

The  like  of  the  following  in  the  ports  named  and  ports  and  places 
adjacent : — 

Nicholas  Leventhorpe  in  the  port  of  Kyngeston  on  Hull. 

By  bill  of  the  treasurer. 

John  Glover  in  the  port  of  Jermouth.  By  bill  of  the  treasurer. 

Richard  Challerton  in  the  port  of  Chichester.  By  bill  of  the  treasurer. 
Robert  Ratclyff  in  the  port  of  Ipswich.  By  bill  of  the  treasurer. 

"William  Chauntrell  in  the  port  of  Newcastle.    By  bill  of  the  treasurer. 

John  Shute  in  the  ports  of  Plyramouth  aud  Fowy. 

By  bill  of  the  treasurer. 

Richard  Alberton  in  the  port  of  Bristol.  By  bill  of  the  treasurer. 


John  Holcote  in  the  port  of  Boston. 


By  bill  of  the  treasurer. 


John  More  in  the  ports  of  Exeter  and  Dertemouth. 

By  bill  of  the  treasurer. 
William  Overay  in  the  port  of  Suthampton.     By  bill  of  the  treasurer. 

John  Rotheram  in  the  port  of  Sandwich.        By  bill  of  the  treasurer. 

Robert  Braybroke  in  the  port  of  Bishop's  Lenn. 

By  bill  of  the  treasurer. 
William  Duke  in  the  ports  of  Exeter  and  Dertmouth. 

By  bill  of  the  treasurer. 
Hugh  Warde  in  the  same.  By  bill  of  the  treasurer. 


Guy  Westcote  in  the  port  of  Bristol. 


William  Alyngton  in  the  port  of  Lenne. 


By  bill  of  the  treasurer. 


11  EDWARD  rV.— Part  I. 


269 


1471. 

June  1. 
Westminster. 


tTuue  G. 
Westminster. 

June  12. 
Westminster. 

Juno  12. 
Westminster. 


Dec.  3. 

Westminster. 

Dec.  10. 
Westminster. 

Nov.  5. 

Westminster. 

June  20. 
Westminster. 


May  30. 
Westmiuster. 

June  3. 
Westminster. 

May  9. 
Westminster. 

May  29. 

Westminster. 

July  4. 
Westminster. 

Aug.  19. 

Westminster. 

July  13. 
Westmiuster. 


Dec.  10. 

Westminster. 

July  20. 
Westminster. 


June  3. 
Westmiuster. 


Membrane  16 — cont. 

The  like  of  John  Peke  as  controller  of  tlie  great  custom  and  the 
subsidy  of  wools,  hides  and  wool-fells  in  the  port  of  London  and  ports  and 
places  adjacent.  By  bill  of  the  treasurer. 

The  like  of  William  Stevens  as  controller  of  the  petty  custom  in  the 
same.  By  bill  of  the  treasurer. 

The  like  of  William  Martyn  as  controller  of  the  subsidy  of  the  3s.  in  the 
tuu  and  the  12!^  in  the  pound  in  the  same.  By  bill  of  the  treasurer. 

Appointment,  during  pleasure,  of  John  Swancote  as  ganger  in  the  port 
of  Bristol  and  ports  and  places  adjacent,  receiving  the  accustomed  fees. 

By  bill  of  the  treasurer. 

The  like  of  the  following  in  the  ports  named  and  ports  and  places 
adjacent  :— 

Richard  Clerk  in  the  ports  of  Exeter  and  Dertmouth. 

By  bill  of  the  treasurer. 

John  Harley  in  the  port  of  Sandwich,  By  bill  of  the  treasurer. 

William  Pokeryng  in  the  port  of  Kyngeston  on  Hull. 

By  bill  of  the  treasurer. 

Grant,  during  pleasure,  to  William  Bretayn  of  the  office  of  tronagc  and 
pcsagc  in  the  port  of  Suthampton  and  ports  and  places  adjacent,  receiving 
the  accustomed  fees.  By  bill  of  the  treasurer. 

The  like  to  the  following  in  the  ports  named  and  ports  and  places 
adjacent : — 

John  Sorell  in  the  port  of  Ipswich. 

Richard  Cowton  in  the  port  of  Kyngeston  on  Hull. 

John  Draper  in  the  port  of  London. 

George  Radclyff,-  esquire,  in  the  port  of  Boston. 

John  Cole  in  the  port  of  Sandwich.  , 

Edmund  Talbot  in  the  port  of  Kyngeston  on  Hull. 

Appointment,  during  pleasure,  of  William  Wythornwyok  as  controller  of 
the  scrutiny  in  the  port  of  Kyngeston  on  Hull  and  ports  and  places  adjacent, 
receiving  the  accustomed  fees.  By  bill  of  the  treasurer. 

The  like  of  Richard  Couton  as  surveyor  of  the  scrutiny  in  the  same. 

By  bill  of  the  treasurer. 

Grant  for  life  to  the  king's  domestic  servant  William  Evington  of  the 
oflice  of  virg ebajulus  or  the  verger  who  carries  the  rod  before  the  king  at 
the  feast  of  St.  George  within  the  castle  of  Wyndesore,  receiving  the 
accustomed  fees  from  the  issues  of  the  king's  lordship  or  manor  of 
Koldckcnnyngton,  co.  Middlesex,  with  all  profits  pertaining  to  the  ofiice, 
in  lieu  of  a  like  grant  to  Halnath  Mauleveror  by  letters  patent  dated  1  April, 
1  Edward  IV,  surrendered.  By  K. 

The  like  to  John  Rysshc  of  the  office  of  keeper  of  the  king's  forest,  hay 
or  park  of  Petherton  by  ]5rigcwater,  co.  Somerset,  with  all  fees,  rents, 
amercements,  forfeitures,  herbages,  pannages  and  agistments  and  other 
profits  belonging  to  the  office.  By  K, 


270 


CALENDAR  OF  PATENT  BOLLS. 


1471.  Membrane  15. 

July  'J2.  Grant  to  tlie  mayor  and  society  of  the  merchants  of  the  st  aple  of  the 
Westminster,  town  of  Calais,  in  satisfaction  of  suras  of  10,000^  in  which  they  were  bound 
for  the  king  to  the  duke  of  Burgundy,  4,276^  85.  which  they  paid  for  the 
king  for  the  wages  of  soldiers,  1,500Z.  vvhicli  they  undertook  to  pay  for 
divers  soldiers  within  the  said  town  at  their  departure,  1,500/.  lent  by  them 
to  the  king  and  3,000/.  delivered  by  them  to  certain  persons  of  the  city  of 
London  for  certain  obligations,  amounting  together  to  the  sum  of  20,276/. 
8*.,  that  for  'i\  years  after  G  April  last  they  may  retain  a  moiety  of  all  sums 
exceeding  the  sum  of  15,022/.  As.  8d.  yearly  from  the  customs  and  subsidies 
of  wools  and  wool-fells  or  fells  called  *  shorlyng  '  and  '  morlyng  '  in  all  ports 
of  the  realm  according  to  the  form  of  letters  patent  dated  13  December, 
(■)  Edward  IV.  \_Rolls  of  Parliament,  v.  613],  authorised  by  an  act  in 
Parliament  at  Westminster,  3  June,  7  Edward  IV,  and  beyond  the  sum  of 
2,000/.  yearly  for  the  term  of  7  years  from  Michaelmas  next  after  the  said 
3  June  for  the  arrears  of  wages  of  the  captain  and  soldiers  of  the  town  of 
Calais  and  the  castles  of  Guysnes  and  Hammes  and  the  marches  of  Calais 
unpaid  before  6  April,  6  Edward  IV.  and  beyond  500  marks  yearly  for  the 
term  of  8^  years  from  this  latter  date  for  timber  for  the  work.s  of  the  said 
town,  castles  and  marches,  and  beyond  1,000  marks  yearly  during  these  8^ 
years  for  the  repair  of  the  said  works  and  beyond  1,000  marks  yearly  for  the 
part  payment  of  the  wages  of  the  king's  justices,  Serjeants  at  law  and 
attorneys,  to  hold  in  part  payment  of  the  said  20,276/.  8s.  Grant  also 
that  after  the  said  3^  years  they  shall  receive  all  customs  and  subsidies  from 
wools  and  wool-fells  and  fells  called  '  shorlyng  '  and  '  morlyng  '  shipped  out  of 
the  realm,  wools  taken  by  the  straits  of  Marrok  excepted,  and  grant  to  them 
of  all  lands,  rents,  waters,  fisheries,  possessions,  profits,  customs,  forfeitures, 
fines,  amercements,  courts,  woods  and  bailiwicks  belonging  to  the  king 
within  tlie  town  and  inarches  of  Calais,  in  payment  of  5,000/.  yearly, 
parcel  of  the  sum  of  20,276/.  8^.  so  that  from  the  said  customs  and 
subsidies  and  a  moiety  of  the  issues  of  the  said  lands  etc.  after  deduction  of 
the  accustomed  wages  of  officers,  they  shall  expend  10,022  As.  Bd.  yearly 
on  the  payment  of  the  wages  of  the  captain  and  soldiers  of  the  said  town 
of  Calais  and  the  tower  of  Euysbank  and  the  castles  of  Guysnes  and 
Hamvnes  in  the  said  marches,  a  third  part  being  delivered  in  victuals,  and 
they  shall  expend  the  other  moiety  of  the  said  issues  on  the  safe-custody 
and  repair  of  the  king's  works  and  artillery  there,  until  they  shall  thus  have 
fully  received  the*  said  sum  of  20,276/.  8*.  And  they  shall  render  an 
account  yearly  at  the  Exchequer  of  any  excess  of  the  said  sums  over  the 
sum  of  15,022/.  4^.  8(/.  yearly  and  the  said  sums  of  2,000/.  500  marks, 
1,000  marks  and  1,000  marks  abovementioned.  Grant  also  that  John 
Thrysk,  mayor  of  the  staple,  and  his  successors  shall  be  treasurers  of  the 
town  and  marches  until  the  full  repayment  of  the  said  sum  of  20,270/.  8*. 
in  the  same  manner  as  Thomas  Slount,  esquire,  deceased,  late  treasurer, 
provided  that  the  name  of  the  mayor  shall  be  certified  to  the  barons  of  the 
Exchequer  within  two  months  of  his  election,  and  the  mayor  shall  be 
purveyor,  receiver  and  keeper  of  all  victuals  and  stuff  for  the  defence  of  the 
town  and  all  other  towns  and  fortalices  in  those  parts,  and  shall  make  all 
freightages,  carriages,  and  other  necessary  expenses  with  all  works  of 
artillery,  sales  of  victuals  and  other  things  concerning  the  ofiice.         By  K. 

Sept.  4.        General  pardon  to  Richard  Gorges  of  Wroxhale,  co.  Somerset,  esquire, 
Westmiuster.  alias  of  Horsyngton,  co.  Somerset,  of  all  offences  committed  by  him  before 
24  August  last  and  all  intrusions  into  his  inheritance.  By  p.s. 

Membrane  14. 

Aug.  G.  General  pardon  to  Walter  Wrattesley,  Geoffrey  Gate,  John  Beusted, 
Westminster.  John  Bromiey  and  George  Bissipate,  knights,  John,  lord  of  Clynton, 


11  EDWARD  IV.— Part  I. 


271 


1471.  Membrane  14 — cont. 

George  Neville,  Thomas  Gray,  Richard  Whetehyll,  John  Courtenay, 
Roland  Worslay,  Thomas  Radcllff,  Robert  Warmyngton,  John  Paraunt  and 
William  Boyville,  esquires,  Richard  Rouehede,  John  Parker  and  Anthony 
de  la  Toure  and  all  burgesses,  merchants,  soldiers,  commoners  and  mariners 
in  the  town  and  castle  of  Calais,  the  tower  of  Ruysbanke  and  the  castle, 
county  and  lordship  of  Guysnes  and  the  marches  of  the  same  ;  and  grant 
that  they  shall  hold  all  their  posssssions  that  they  had  on  3  iMarch, 
8  Edward  IV,  with  the  exception  of  offices  within  the  above  places  of 
Avhich  grants  have  been  made  to  the  captains  of  the  same  or  which  were 
held  by  letters  patent  now  surrendered  or  for  a  term  now  past ;  and  grant 
that  the  treasurer  of  Calais  shall  make  separate  letters  patent  to  them  to 
this  efTect  before  Christmas  without  fine  or  fee.  By  p.s. 

Aug.  18.        General  pardon  to  Richard  Harowedon  late  of  Ilarwedon,  co.  North- 
Westminster,  ampton,  esquire,  alias  late  of  Estneston,  co.  Northampton,  '  geutilman,'  of 
all  offences  committed  by  him  before  5  August.  By  p.s. 

Aug.  20.        General  pardon  to  William  Manypeny,  merchant.  By  p.s. 

Westminster.      The  like  to  the  following 
Peter  Malary,  merchant. 
John  Charabre,  merchant. 
John  Rason  late  of  London,  merchant. 

Aug.  12.       Mandate  to  the  escheator  in  the  county  of  Lincoln  for  tlie  restitution  of 
Westuiiustcr.  the  temporalities  of  the  abbey  of  Peterborough,  of  the  order  of  St.  Benedict, 
to  William  Ramsey,  monk  of  the  monastery,  whose  election  as  abbot  fJoim, 
bishop  of  Lincoln,  has  confirmed  and  whose  fealty  the  king  has  ordered  to 
bo  taken  by  his  kinsman  John,  earl  of  Wiltshire.  By  p.s. 

The  like  to  the  eschcators  in  the  following  counties 
Warwick  and  Leicester. 
Nottingham. 

Cambridge  and  Huntingdon. 
Northampton  and  Rutland. 
Bedford  and  Buckingham. 

The  like  to  John  Stokton,  knight,  mayor  of  London,  escheator  in  that  city. 

Writ  de  intendendo  in  pursuance  to  the  tenants. 


Membrane  13. 

July  2.  General  pardon  to  Thomas  Smyth  of  Dover,  co.  Kent,  'yoman,'  of  all 
Westminster,  offences  committed  by  him  before  15  April  last.  '  By  p.s. 

July  4.  General  pardon  to  Richard  Tunstali  late  of  Thurlande,  co.  Lancaster, 
Westminster,  knight.  By  p.s. 

July  4.  Licence,  for  13s.  id.  paid  in  the  hanaper,  for  Isabel  late  the  wife  of 
■\Vcstminster.  Walter  Langlcy,  escpiire,  kinsman  and  heir  of  John  Langlcy,  esquire,  to 
grant  her  manor  of  Ovorsodynglon,  co.  Gloucester,  held  in  chief,  to 
Richard  Middolton,  parson  of  the  pivrish  church  of  Oversodyngton,  and 
Tiiomas  Nele  of  Cirenccstre,  '  grocer,'  and  for  these  to  rc-grant  the  manor 
to  her  for  life  without  impeachment  of  waste,  with  successive  remainders 
to  Edmund  Langley,  son  of  Walter  and  herself,  William  Langlcy  brother 
of  Edmund,  John  Langlcy  brother  of  William,  and  Matilda  the  Avife  of 
John  VVikcs  of  Dursley,  esquire,  sister  of  the  said  .John,  William  and 
Edmund,  and  the  huirs  of  their  bodies,  and  final  remainder  to  her  right 
heirs. 


272 


CALENDAR  OF  PATENT  ROLLS. 


1471.  Membrane  13 — cont. 

July  7.        Signification  to  Th.  bishop  of  London  of  the  royal  assent  to  the  election 
Westminster,  of  Richard  PuUer,  canon  of  the  priory  of  St.  Bartholomew  in  Westsmyth- 
feld  in  the  suburbs  of  London,  as  prior  of  that  monastery.  By  p.s. 

J uly  6.  Grant  to  the  merchants  of  the  city  of  Cologne  in  Almain,  who  among  other 
Westminster,  merchants  of  Almain  have  held  the  house  in  the  city  of  London  commonly 
called  Guyldehalla  Theutonicorum.  that  for  one  year  from'Easter  last  they 
shall  enjoy  their  ancient  privileges  in  England  and  other  places  subject  to 
the  king,  and  that  during  that  time  they  and  their  factors,  attorneys  and 
servants  shall  be  quit  of  all  subsidies,  saving  to  the  king  his  ancient  prises, 
rights  and  customs,  and  no  merchant  of  the  said  city  or  his  goods  shall  be 
seised  for  any  debt  for  which  he  is  not  a  principal  or  for  any  trespass 
committed  by  anyone  else.  By  p.s. 

July  10.  General  pardon  to  William  Barton  of  London,  '  gentilman,'  alias  of 
Westminster.  Wodeham  Water,  co.  Essex,  of  all  offences  committed  by  him  before  6  July. 

By  p.s. 

July  10.       Grant  to  John  Fogge,  knight,  of  the  custody  of  all  lordships,  manors, 
Westminster,  lands,  rents,  services  and  possessions  late  of  Thomas  Grene  of  Norton, 
CO.  Northampton,  knight,  deceased,  tenant  in  chief,  during  the.  minority  of 
Thomas  his  son  and  heir,  and  the  custody  and  marriage  of  the  latter 
without  disparagement  and  so  from  heir  to  heir.  By  p.s. 

July  3.  Grant  to  Ralph  Hastynges,  kniglit,  whom  by  letters  patent  dated  at 
Westminstei-.  Westminster,  II  April  last,  the  king  appointed  sheriff  of  Northampton 
during  pleasure  by  the  name  of  Ralph  Hastynges,  esquire,  that  he  and  his 
heirs  and  executors  shall  not  be  charged  by  reason  of  his  office  with  any 
farms,  issues  or  arrears  due  to  the  king  except  those  sums  of  money  which 
came  to  his  hands  by  reason  of  his  office  and  which  he  acknowledged  to  the 
king's  use  in  his  account.  By  p.s. 

July  10.        Presentation  of  Richard  Neweport,  chaplain,  to  the  parish  church  of 
Westminster.  Hovekirke,  in  the  diocese  of  Terouanue,  void  by  the  resignation  of  Nicholas 
Bulfynche,  last  parson.    The  letters  are  directed  to  Th.  cardinal  arch- 
bishop of  Canterbury. 
July  12.       Protection  with  clause  volumus,   for  one   year,  for  William  Barly, 
Westminster.   '  marchaunt,'  alias  William  Elbarly  of  Norwich,  'mercer,'  going  to  Ireland 
on  the  king's  service  in  the  company  of  the  king's  brother  George,  duke  of 
Clarence,  lieutenant  of  Ireland,  on  the  safe-custody,  defence  and  victualling 
of  that  land.  By  p.s. 


Membrane  12. 

Aug.  4.  Licence  for  the  abbot  and  convent  of  the  monastery  of  St.  Peter,  West- 
Westminster,  minster,  to  sue  before  the  pope  that  all  persons  who  shall  in  future  be 
elected  abbots  of  the  monastery  shall  thereby  be  abbots  without  other 
confirmation,  and  to  receive  bulls  to  that  effect,  provided  that  the  convent 
shall  certify  the  king  of  the  death  or  cession  of  the  abbots  at  each  voidance 
and  seek  licence  to  elect  and  after  election  obtain  the  royal  a,ssent  and 
restitution  of  temporalities  from  the  king.  By  p.s. 

Au"'.  11.        Grant  for  life  to  Thomas  Thwaites  of  the  office  of  chancellor  of  the 
Westminster.  Exchequer,  receiving  the  accustomed  fees  at  the  Exchequer,  with  all 
accustomed  profits,  in  lieu  of  a  like  grant  to  Richard  Fowler  by  letters 
patent  dated  8  April,  9  Edward  IV.  (see  p.  151),  surrendered.         By  p.s. 

Atig.  10.        General  pardon  to  Rogei-  Bemyster,  abbot  of  Cerne,  co.  Dorset,  of  all 
WeEtmicster.  off'ences  committed  by  him  before  G  August  last  and  all  alienations  and 
perquisitions  of  land  without  licence.  By  p.s. 


11  EDWARD  IV.— Part  I. 


273 


1471.  Membrane  12 — cont. 

Aug  26.  Grant  to  Peter  Sans  of  Venesse,  in  affirmation  of  a  previous  grant  to 
Westminster,  him  by  word  of  mouth  of  an  annuity  of  20^.  so  long  as  the  peace  between  the 
king  and  the  five  provinces  of  Spain  on  the  sea  should  continue,  of  which 
annuity  20/.  remain  unpaid,  of  20/.  from  the  customs  and  subsidies  in  the 
port  of  London  and  an  annuity  of  20/.  during  the  said  peace  from  the 
customs  and  subsidies  on  tlie  goods  disembarked  by  him  in  the  said  port. 

By  p.s. 

Vacated  by  surrender  and  cancelled  by  L.  bishop  oj  Durham,  chancellor 
oj  England,  07i  26  February,  13  Edward  IV,  on  which  day  the  king 
granted  the  annuity  by  other  letters  patent. 

Like  grant  to  Domon  John  Dandia,  squire  of  the  realm  of  Spain,  of  20/. 
from  the  customs  and  subsidies  in  the  port  of  Bristol  and  an  annuity  of 
20/  during  the  said  peace  from  the  customs  and  subsidies  on  the  goods 
disembarked  by  him  in  the  said  port.  By  p.s.  [3302.1 

Vacated  by  surrender  and  cancelled  by  L.  bishop  of  Durham,  chancellor 
of  England,  on  26  February,  13  Edward  IV,  on  which  day  the  king 
granted  the  annuity  by  other  letters  patent. 

Aug.  10.       Exemplification,  at  the  request  of  Richard  Fowler,  of  the  teuour  of  the 
Westminster,  enrolment  of  letters  patent  dated  8  April,  9  Edward  IV  {sec  p.  151),  being 
a  grant  to  him  for  life  of  the  oflice  of  chancellor  qf  the  E.xcliequer.  These 
letters  have  been  casually  lost,  as  he  has  taken  oath  in  Chancery,  and  will 
be  surrendered  if  found. 

Aug.  29.       Grant  for  life  to  the  king's  servants  Peter  Curteys  and  Edmund  White 
Wostmiuster.  of  the  office  of  cliief  serjeantship  of  Metlie  in  Ireland,  with  the  accustomed 
fees  and  other  profits.  By  p.s.  [3311.] 


Membrane  11. 

Aug.  30.  Grant  to  Gerard  Caniziani,  merchant  of  Florence,  in  repayment  of  ihc 
Westminster,  sum  of  G,600/.  due  to  him  from  the  king,  as  appears  in  the  receipt  of  tlic 
Exchequer,  that  he  or  his  executors  alter  his  decease  or  Iheir  factors  or 
attorneys  may  ship  sacks  and  bales  of  wool,  woollen  cloths,  pieces  of  tin 
and  fodders  of  lead  in  the  ports  of  London,  Sandwich  and  Southampton 
and  take  the  wools  by  the  sti'aits  of  Marrok  and  the  woollen  clotlis,  tin  and 
lead  to  any  foreign  parts  and  bring  back  other  merchandise  to  the  .'■a'd 
ports  quit  of  customs  and  subsidies,  these  on  the  sacks  and  bales  of  wool 
at  the  rate  of  4  marks  only,  until  he  shall  thus  be  fully  satisfied  of  the  said 
sum  of  6,(i00/.  By  p.s. 

Sept.  1.  General  pardon  to  John  Neuburgh  the  elder  of  Estlulleworth,  co.  Dorset, 
Westminster,  esquire,  of  all  offences  committed  by  him  before  5  August  last.        By  p.s. 

Aug.  17.       Grant  for  life  to  the  king's  servitor  David  Gough  of  the  office  of  one  of 
Weetminster.  the  king's  sergeant's-at-arms  in  the  place  of  John  Convers,  deceased,  with 
wages  of  12c?.  daily  from  the  issues  of  the  counties  of  Ettcx  and  Hertford. 

By  p.s. 

Aug.  80.  Grant  for  life  to  William  Mar.shall  of  the  hosjiital  called  '  Goddc.-house '  or 
Westminster.  Mcsune  Dieu  within  the  town  of  Calais.  By  p.s.  [3314.] 

Aug.  24 .       Grant  to  the  king's  eldest  son  Edward,  ]>rince  of  Waks,  duke  of  Cornwall 
Westminster,  and  earl  of  Chester,  that  he  .■-hall  have  lliese  present  loiters  and  all  chartcr.«, 
letters  patent  and  writs  in  Char.cery  and  other  courts  of  the  king  quit  of 
fee  of  the  seal  and  fine.  By  K. 

Sept.  11.        Grant  for  life  to  the  king's  servant  Thomas  Stele,  yeoman  of  the  king's 
Westminster,  chamber,  of  the  office  of  '  bowberer  '  (arcubajufi)  of  seven  hays  about  '  Ic 
Cankewode,'  co.  Stafford,  which  John  Somerton  lately  had,  with  the 
accustomed  fees  and  other  profits.  By  p.s.  [3225.] 

y  96186.  S 


2?4 


CALENDAR  OF  PATENT  ROLLS. 


][471.  Membrane  11 — cont. 

Sept.  11.        fieneral  p.irdou  to  Johu  Sliipward  alias  Shepard  alias  Sbeppard  the 
Westminster,  elder  of  Bristol,  'merchant,'  of  all  offences  committed  by  him  before 
7  September.  By  p.s. 

Aug.  7.  Grant  to  the  king's  servant  Thomas  Vaughan,  treasurer  of  the  king's 
Westminster,  chamber,  and  his  heirs  of  a  mansion  or  habitation  which  he  formerly  had 
of  the  king's  grant,  in  the  king's  hands  by  the  forfeiture  of  Jaspar,  late  earl 
of  Pembroke,  situated  on  the  ground  called  '  Garlek  '  in  Brokestrete  on  the 
north  and  east  of  the  parish  church  of  Stepinhith,  co.  Middlesex,  with 
gardens  and  closes  appertaining.  ByK. 

Sept.  18.  General  pardon  to  Henry  Spencer,  '  yoman,'  of  all  offences  committed  by 
Westminster,  him  before  2  August  last.  By  p.s. 

Sept.  21.       Presentation  of  John  Strete,  chaplain,  to  the  parish  church  of  St.  Blaise, 
Westminster,  in  the  diocese  of  Terouanne,  void  by  the  death  of  William  Aide,  last  parson. 
The  letters  are  directed  to  Th.  cardinal  archbishop  of  Canterbury. 


Membrane  10. 


July  13. 

Westminster. 


July  15. 

Westminster 

J  uly  6. 
Westminster. 

July  16. 
Westminster. 


July  9. 
Westminster. 


Aug.  1. 
Westminster. 

July  30. 
Westmiu.stcr. 


Aug.  12. 
Westminster. 

Aug.  12. 
Westminster. 

Aug.  28. 
Westminster. 


General  pardon  to  John  Stephen  late  of  Chircliehill  in  the  parish  of 
Whitstaple,  co,  Kent,  '  yoman,'  son  of  William  Stephen  late  of  Whitstaple, 
'  shipman,' John  Stevyn,  of  all  offences  committed  by  him  be/ore 
31  May  last.  By  p.s. 

Ratification  of  the  estate  which  John  Pemberton,  king's  clerk,  has  as 
master  or  warden  of  the  hospital  of  St.  Mary,  Osprenge,  By  p.s. 

General  pardon  to  John  Fogge  of  Rypton  in  the  parish  of  Asshetesford, 
CO.  Kent,  knight,  alias  late  of  London.  By  K. 

Revocation  of  the  protection  granted  on  12  July  by  letters  patent 
{see  p.  272)  to  William  Barly,  '  marchaunt,'  going  to  Ireland  on  the  king's 
service,  because  he  delays  in  the  county  of  Middlesex,  as  appears  by 
certificate  of  the  sheriffs. 

Restitution  of  the  temporalities  of  the  priory  of  Wenlok,  in  the  dioce.=e 
of  Hereford,  to  Dan  John  Sliorewesbury,  of  the  Cluniac  order,  whom 
Louis  de  Swilleyo,  prior  of  the  monastery  of  St.  Mary,  la  Charite  sur  Loire, 
of  the  same  order,  in  the  diocese  of  Auxerre,  has  appointed  prior  in  the  place 
of  Roger  Wenlok,  last  prior,  deceased,  and  whose  fealty  the  king  has 
ordered  to  be  taken  by  Henry,  abbot  of  Bildewas.  By  p.?. 

Grant  for  life  to  Richard  Tarleton  of  the  office  of  marshal  and  crier 
before  the  justice  of  North  Wales,  void  by  the  death  of  John  Donne,  with 
the  accustomed  fees.  By  p.s.  [3262.] 

Grant  to  the  king's  clerk  Master  William  Dudley,  (dean)  of  the  king's 
chapel,  of  the  prebend  or  canonry  of  the  king's  free  chapel  or  college 
within  the  castle  of  Wyndesore  void  by  the  death  of  John  Cressy,  last 
incumbent.  By  p.s.  [3254  ] 

Mandate  in  pursuance  to  the  dean  or  warden  of  the  college. 

General  pardon  to  John  Rugge  late  of  Rugge,  co.  Salop,  esquire,  alias 
late  of  le  Wyche,  co.  Worcester,  esquire.  ]3y  p.s. 

General  pardon  to  Roger  Evirdon  of  Kethirmynstre,  co.  Worcester, 
'  gentilman,'  of  all  offences  committed  by  him  before  0  August.        By  p.s. 

Presentation  of  John  Philip,  chaplain,  to  the  parish  church  of  Shelton, 
in  the  diocese  of  Lincoln,  void  by  the  resignation  of  John  Ham,  last  parson, 
and  in  tiie  king's  gift  by  reason  of  the  minority  of  Robert  son  and  heir  of 
Thomas  Malory,  tenant  in  chief. 


11  EDWARD  IV.— Part  I. 


27.') 


Sept.  11. 
Westminster. 


Aug.  26. 
VVestmiuster. 


1471.  Membrane  10 — cont. 

Sept.  .3.        Presentation  of  Thomas  Iloland,  chaplain,  to  the  parish  church  of 
AVestminster.  Marke,  in  the  diocese  of  Terouanne,  void  by  the  death  of  William  Liche 
last  parsou.    The  letters  are  directed  to  Th.  cardinal  archbishop  of  Cautei- 
bury. 

Presentation  of  John  dc  Villario,  chaplain,  to  the  parish  churcli  of 
Campe,  in  the  diocese  of  Terouanne,  void  by  the  death  of  Alexander 
Brownyng,  last  parson.  The  letters  are  directed  to  Th.  cardinal  archbishop 
of  Canterbury. 

Membrane  9. 

Exemplification,  at  the  request  of  Richard,  duke  of  Gloucester,  of  the 
lenour  of  the  enrolment  of  letters  patent  dated  7  February,  9  Edward  IV. 
{see  p.  185),  appointing  him  chief  justice  of  Soulh  Wales,  chamberlain  of 
South  Wales  and  steward  of  the  commote  of  Cantremaure  and  all  lord- 
ships, manors  and  commotes  of  the  king  in  the  counties  of  Kardicau  and 
Kermerdyn  during  the  minority  of  William  Herbert,  knight,  earl  of 
Pembroke.  These  letters  have  been  lost  by  accident,  as  Morgan  Kidwelly 
his  attorney-general  has  taken  oath  in  Chancery,  and  will  be  surrendered  if 
found. 

Vacated  by  surrender  and  cancelled,  because  the  king  r/ranted  the  offices 
to  f  j'illiam,  earl  of  Peinbrohe,  by  other  letters  patent. 

Licence  for  the  king's  kinsman  William,  earl  of  Pembroke,  son  and 
heir  of  William,  late  earl  of  Pembroke,  tenant  in.  chief,  to  enter  ireely 
without  proof  of  age  into  the  offices  of  chief  justice  of  South  Wales  and 
chamberlain  of  Soulh  Wales  and  all  other  offices  in  Wales  and  the  marches 
of  which  the  said  late  earl  was  seised  in  his  demesne  as  of  fee  and  which 
should  descend  to  the  present  earl.  By  p.s. 

Exemplification,  at  the  request  of  the  king's  brother  Richard,  duke 
of  Gloucester,  of  the  tenour  of  the  enrolment  of  letters  patent  dated 
7  November,  9  Edward  IV.  {sec  p.  179),  granting  to  him  for  life  the  office 
of  chief  justice  of  North  Wales.  These  letters  have  been  lost  by  accident, 
as  Morgan  Kidwelly  his  attorney  general  has  taken  oath  in  Chancery,  and 
will  be  surrendered  if  found. 

Grant  to  Margaret  late  the  wife  of  Richard  Herbert,  knight,  tenant 
in  chief,  of  the  custody  of  all  lordships,  manors,  lands,  services  and 
other  possessions  with  knights'  lees  and  advowsons  late  of  the  said  Richard 
during  the  minority  of  William  his  son  and  heir,  rendering  to  the  king 
40/.  yearly.  By  p.s. 

Vacated  by  surrender  and  cancelled,  because  the  hiny  granted  the 
custody  to  John  Herle  and  the  said  Margaret  his  u  i/e  by  other  letters 
patent  on  26  May,  15  Edward  IV. 

Grant  for  eight  years  to  Christopher,  the  abl)of,  and  the  convent  of 
the  house  or  abbey  of  St.  INIary,  Tryni,  of  10/.  yearly  from  all  lands  of 
the  king's  manor  or  lordship  of  Kyklalk,  co.  Mcalli,  for  (he  celebration 
of  a  special  mass  daily  in  the  abbey  for  the  souls  of  the  king's  father  and 
progenitors.  By  p.s. 

General  pardon  to  Thomas  Cotton  of  Landwade,  co.  Cambridge,  esquire, 
of  all  offences  committed  by  him  before  22  April  last.  By  p.s. 

General  pardon  to  Richard  West,  lord  Ic  Warre,  of  all  offences  com- 
mitted by  him  before  7  October.  By  p.s. 

Grant  for  life  to  the  king's  servant  Richard  Robynson,  one  of  the  yeomen 
of  the  household,  of  the  ollice  of  one  of  the  four  foresters  of  Ingeliswodc, 
CO.  Cumberland,  with  the  accustomed  fees,  in  tho  same  manner  as  Thomas 
Boon,  l  ebel,  had.  By  p.?. 


Aug.  29. 
Westminster, 


Aug.  26. 
Westminster. 


Oct.  3. 
Westminster. 


Oct.  13. 
Westminster. 


Oct.  15. 

Westminster. 

Oct.  15. 

Westminster. 

Oct.  24. 
Westminster. 


276 


CALENDAR  OF  PATENT  ROLLS. 


2471.  Membrane  9 — cont. 

Vacated  by  surrender  and  cancelled  on  5  November,  12  Edicard  IV,  by 
J.  bishop  of  Rochester,  keeper  of  the  great  seal,  on  which  day  the  king 
granted  the  office  to  Richard  Hoton  by  other  letters  patent. 


Membrane  8. 

June  17.       General  pardon  to  Robert  Cok,  '  gentilman.'  By  p.s. 

Westminster. 

The  like  to  the  following  : — 
Thomas  Boden. 
John  Neest. 
John  Stnrston. 
Nicholas  Grewell. 
John  WestclyfF. 
Richard  Challesworth. 
John  Philip. 

July  10.        Grant  for  life  to  the  king's  servitor  Thomas  Asshe  from  Michaelmas 
Westmiuster.  last  of  6  marks  yearly  which  the  priors  of  Folkestone  are  bound  to  pay  to 
the  king  from  an  ancient  apport  due  to  the  chief  house  of  the  priory  beyond 
seas.  By  p.s. 

July  9.        Appointment,  during  pleasure,  of  Robert  Cok  as  keeper  of  the  town  of 
Westminster.  Sandwich  and  its  members,  the  liberties  and  franchises  of  which  have  been 
taken  into  the  king's  hands,  with  full  power  of  governance.  By  K. 

The  like  of  the  following  in  the  following  towns  and  their  members  : — 
Thomas  Hexstall  in  the  town  of  Dover. 
Henry  Fysshe  in  the  town  of  Wynchelsey. 
John  Sutton  in  the  town  of  Rye. 
John  Goldyng  in  the  town  of  Hastyug. 

July  12.        Grant  to  Thomas  Gray,  esquire,  and  Richard  Jones,  yeoman,  of  the 
Westminster,  household,  of  the  profits  of  all  lands,  rents  and  services  and  all  the  goods 
of  Thomas  Hunt  of  the  town  of  Westminster,  co.  Middlesex,  '  gentilman,' 
outlawed  at  the  suit  of  William  Barton,  '  yoman,'  on  a  plea  of  debt  in 
London  on  Monday  before  St.  F'aitli,  7  Edward  IV.  By  p.s. 

July  10.  Grant  to  Laurence,  bishop  of  Durham,  and  his  heirs  and  assigns,  for 
Westminster.  700/.  paid  at  the  receipt  of  tlie  Exchequer,  of  the  manor  of  Milton,  co. 

Cambridge,  with  the  advowson  of  the  parish  church  of  Milton  and  all  lands, 
rents,  and  services  in  Milton  late  of  Richard  Lowe,  e-quire,  forfeited  to  the 
king,  and  six  messuages,  100  acres  of  land,  30  acres  of  meadow  and  20  acres 
of  pasture  and  all  other  land,  rents,  services,  common  of  pasture  and  other 
possessions  in  Batrichesey,  Wannesworth  and  Wassyngham  late  of  John 
Stanley,  esquire,  son  of  John  Stnnley  late  of  Batrichesey,  forfeited  to  the 
king,  to  hold  from  13  April  last  by  the  accustomed  seryices.  By  K. 

July  10.        Grant  for  life  to  the  king's  clerk  Master  William  Dudley,  dean  of  the  king's 
Westminster,  chapel,  of  the  deanery  of  the  king's  college  or  free  chapel  of  Briggenorth, 
void  by  the  death  of  Master  Henry  Sever,  last  incumbent.    By  p.s.  [3210.] 

July  12.        Grant  to  John  Jonys  of  all  the  goods  late  of  Nicholas  Jonys,  late  of 
Westminster.  Tetbury,  CO.  Gloucester,  'gentilman,'  indicted  of  certain  felony  and  murder 
for  the  death  of  John  Lewes  being  against  Thomas,  lord  of  Lyslo,  at  the 
time  of  his  death,  for  which  he  made  flight.  By  p.s. 

Aug,  5.         Grant  for  life  to  the  king's  servant  Master  John  Blakeweyn,  the  king's 
Westminster,  under  almoner,  of  tlie  deanery  of  the  college  of  St.  Mary,  Shrewsbury,  void 
by  the  death  of  John  Cressy  .last  incumbent.  By  p.s.  [3265.] 


11  EDWARD  IV.— Part  I. 


277 


1471. 

July  22. 
Wcsnniuster. 


Aug.  21. 
Westminster. 

Sept.  11. 

Westminster. 


Aug.  21, 
Westminster. 


Sept.  23. 
Westminster. 


Membrane  7. 

General  pardon  to  Richard  Salkeld  late  of  Corkby,  co.  Cumberland, 
esquire,  late  constable  of  the  castle  of  Carlisle,  William  Salkeld  late  of 
Wygtoii,  CO.  Cumberland,  '  geutilman,'  Nicholas  Skelton  late  of  Quytrigge, 
CO.  Cumberhmd,  '  geutilman,'  Clemeut  Skelton  the  cider  late  of  Aynthome, 
CO.  Cumberland,  '  gentilman,'  John  Bovvyer  late  of  Carlile,  co.  Cumberland, 

*  geutilman,' «/m5  John  Bower,  steward,  Alexander  Appulby  of  the  same, 
'  gentilman,'  John  Symson  of  the  same,  '  gentilman,'  Thomas  Salkeld  the 
younger  of  the  same,  'gentilman,'  Alan  Blanerhasset  of  the  same, '  gentilman,' 
John  Salkeld  of  the  same,  'gentilmau,'  Alexander  Benett  of  the  same, 
'gentilman,'  Henry  Brotherwyke  of  the  same,  'gentilman,'  William  Salkeld 
the  younger  of  the  same,  *  gentilman,'  Thomas  Nicholson  of  the  same, 
'  yoman,'  Thomas  Calv.ard  of  the  same, '  yoman,'  Hugh  Hodson  of  the  same, 

*  yoman,'Alexander  Lamble  of  the  same, '  yoman,'  John  Thomson  of  the  same, 
'yoman,'  Edward  Nicholson  of  Ihe  same,  'yoman,'  Henry  Crakall  of  the 
same,  '  yoman,' John  Lamble  of  the  same,  'yoman,'  ^Villi;lm  Wryght  late 
of  Corkby,  'yoman,' John  Grame  of  the  same,  'yoman,'  William  Gyllysland 
of  the  same,  '  yoman,'  Richard  Robson  of  the  same,  '  yoman,'  Rubert 
Fyssher  of  the  same,  'yoman,'  Laurence  Jamys  of  the  same,  'yoman,'  John 
Jakson  of  the  same,  '  yoman,'  John  Bullok  of  the  same,  '  yoman,'  Richard 
Ferrour  of  the  same,  '  yoman,'  William  Johnson  of  the  same,  *  yoman,' John 
Symson  the  younger  of  tlie  same,  '  yoman,' Richard  Hunter  of  the  same, 
'yoman,'  John  Skollok  of  the  same,  'yoman,'  Thomas  Raylton  of  the  same, 
'yoman,'  Richard  Wilson  of  the  same,  '  yoman,'  Robert  Leche  of  the  same, 
'  yoman,'  Willi.am  Lynge  of  the  same,  yoman,'  Robert  Stele  of  the  same, 
'  yoman,'  Roland  Sharpharowe  of  the  same,  '  yoman,'  Thomas  Newynson 
of  the  same,  'yoman,' Richard  Rychardby  of  the  same,  '  yoman,' Thomas 
Beelle  of  the  same, '  yoman,' Miles  Swynbourne  of  the  same, '  yoman,' Thomas 
Grame  the  elder  of  KcUowe,  co.  Cumberland,  'yoman,'  John  Robynson 
alias  Prestman  of  Oughterby,  co.  Cumberland,  'yoman,'  Thomas  Jamys  of 
Stanwyke,  co.  Cumberland,  '  yoman,'  John  Ewalde  late  of  Tredyrmayn, 
CO.  Cumberland,  '  yoman,'  Adam  Eddryngton  of  Nawby,  co.  Cumberland, 
'yoman,'  William  Rychardson  ofNewby  aforesaid,  'yoman,'  Robert  Stahyll 
of  the  same,  '  yom.an,'  Richard  Shapharowe  of  Little  Corkby,  co.  Cumberland, 
'yoman,'  John  Newynson  of  Langthwaite,  co.  Cumberland,  'yoman,'  John 
Vaux  of  Carlile,  '  j'omau,'  Bartholomew  Salkeld  of  the  same,  '  yoman,' 
Robert  Gybson  of  the  same,  '  yoman,'  Henry  Sharp  of  the  same,  'yoman,' 
Thomas  Milner  of  the  same,  '  yoman/  John  Cokson  of  the  same,  '  yoman,' 
Gilbert  Loksmyth  of  the  same,  'yoman,'  William  Lamble  of  the  same, 
'yoman,'  John  Conner  of  the  same,  '  yoman,'  Richard  Yonger  of  the  same, 
'yoman,' John  Lystir  of  the  same,  ' yoman,'  Alexander  Don  of  the  same, 

*  yoman,'  John  Bendell  of  the  same,  '  yoman,'  John  Twedc  of  the  same, 
'  yoman,'  John  Watson  of  the  same,  '  yoman,'  Thomas  Croft  of  the  same, 
'yoman,'  Richard  Gunner  of  the  same,  ' yoman,'  Richard  Rabanks  of  tho 
same,  'yoman,'  and  John  Mason  of  tho  same,  'yoman.'  By  p.s. 

General  pardon  to  Thomas  Ormoud,  esquire,  of  all  offences  committed 
by  him  before  13  August.  By  p.s. 

Appointment  for  life  of  the  king's  kinsman  John,  earl  of  Shrewsbury, 
as  chief  justice  of  North  Wales,  receiving  the  accustomed  fees  at  the  hands 
of  tlie  chamberlain  of  North  Wales.  By  p.s. 

Grant  for  life  to  the  king's  servant  Baltizar  Buckyng,  for  his  good 
service  beyond  seas  and  in  all  the  king's  conflicts  and  journeyings  in 
England,  of  an  annuity  of  10  marks  at  the  receipt  of  the  Exchequer. 

By  p.s.  [3275.] 

Presentation  of  Master  Thomas  Danct  to  the  prebend  within  the  cimich 
of  Pousbury,  co.  Salop,  in  tho  diocese  of  Hereford,  void  by  the  death  of 


278 


CALENDAE  OF  PATENT  EOLLS. 


X471.  Membrane  7 — cont. 

John  Gomon,  last  prebendary,  and  in  the  king's  gift  by  reason  of  his 
custody  of  the  land  and  heir  of  John,  earl  of  Worcester,  deceased,  tenant 
in  chief.  By  p.s.  [3332.] 

Sept.  20.       Licence  for  the  prior  and  convent  of  the  monastery  of  St.  James  by 
Westmiuster.  Norhampton,  of  the  order  of  St.  Augustine,  to  elect  an  abbot  in  the  place 
of  William  Yon,  last  abbot,  deceased. 

Aug.  28.  General  pardon  to  Johu  Wroughton  late  of  the  county  of  Wilts,  esquire, 
"VVestmiuster,  of  all  offences  committed  by  him  before  26  July.  By  p.s. 

Sept.  30.       Grant  for  life  to  John  Hewyk  of  the  office  of  auditor  of  all  castles, 
Westminster,  manors  and  lands  late  of  the  king's  father  Richard,  duke  of  York,  within 
the  counties  of  York,  Essex  and  Dorset,  receiving  the  accustomed  fees  at 
the  hands  of  the  receivers,  bailiffs,  farmers  and  other  officers  of  the  same. 

By  p.s. 

Sept.  27.  Grant  for  life  to  William  Goodyer,  doctor  of  laws,  and  his  assigns  of  an 
Westmiaster.  annuity  of  40/.  at  the  receipt  of  tlie  Exchequer.  By  p.s. 


Membrane  6. 

April  19.  Grant  to  John  Davyson  of  the  wardenship  or  deanery  of  the  king's  free 
Westminster,   chapel  of  St.  George  within  the  castle  of  Wyndesore.  By  p.s. 

Mandate  to  R.  bishop  of  Salisbury  to  admit  him  to  the  cure  of  souls  of 
the  said  chapel. 

Mandate  to  Thomas  Passhe,  one  of  the  canons  residentiary  of  the  said 
chapel,  to  put  him  in  corporal  possession  of  the  deanery. 

Oct.  24.  Grant  for  life  to  the  king's  servant  Nicholas  Carre,  esquire,  of  the  office 
Westminster,  of  one  of  the  king's  Serjeants  at  arms  in  attendance  on  the  king's  person, 
as  Clement  Thomas,  deceased,  had,  with  wages  of  12d.  daily  from  the  fee 
farm  of  the  city  of  London  and  the  issues  of  the  county  of  Middlesex  and 
a  livery  of  the  suit  of  esquires  of  the  household  yearly  at  Christmas  at  the 
great  wardrobe.  By  p.s. 

Oct.  20.  Whereas  at  the  last  voidance  of  the  abbey  of  Godestowe,  co.  Oxford, 
Westminster,  which  is  of  the  foundation  of  the  king's  progenitors  and  of  tiie  king's 
patronage,  by  the  death  of  Alice  Henley,  last  abbess,  one  Alice 
Nuuny,  one  of  the  nuns  of  the  monastery,  was  duly  elected  abbess  by 
licence  of  the  king  but  was  confirmed  as  abbess  by  authority  of  letters  of 
pope  Paul  II.  without  the  royal  assent  to  that  confirmation  having  been 
obtained,  the  king  hereby  pardons  the  trespasses  committed  in  this  and 
grants  that  the  abbess  shall  have  full  restitution  of  the  temporalities. 

By  p.s. 

Mandate  in  pursuance  to  the  escheator  in  the  counties  of  Oxford  and 
Berks. 

The  like  to  the  escheators  in  the  following  counties  : — 
Southampton  and  Wilts. 
Buckingham. 
Warwick. 
Gloucester. 
Sussex. 
Dorset. 
Northampton. 

The  like  to  John  Stokton,  mayor  of  London,  escheator  in  that  city. 
Writ  de  intendendo  in  pursuance  to  the  tenants. 


11  EDWARD  IV.— Part  I, 


279 


1471. 

Oct.  25. 

Westminster. 


Oct.  23. 
Westminster. 


Oct.  30. 
Westminster. 


Membrane  6 — cont. 

Grant  for  life  to  the  king's  servant  John  Gwynne  of  the  office  of  one  of 
tlie  king's  Serjeants  at  arms,  receiving  wages  of  \2d,  daily  from  the  fee-farm 
of  the  city  of  Chicliester,  as  James  Damport  had  in  the  same  office,  and  a 
livery  of  the  suit  of  the  king's  esquires  yearly  at  the  great  wardrohe. 

By  p.s. 

Licence  for  Robert  Poynlz,  esquire,  son  and  heir  of  John  Poyntz,  esquire, 
deceased,  tenant  in  chief,  to  enter  freely  into  all  lordships,  manors,  land.s, 
farms,  annuities,  reversions,  rents,  services,  hundreds,  views  of  frank-pledge, 
courts  leet,  sheriff's  turns,  liberties,  franchises,  fairs,  markets,  jurisdictions, 
knights'  fees,  advowsons,  woods,  agistments,  pannages,  mills,  waters, 
fisheries  and  other  possessions  of  which  his  father  was  seised  in  his  detnense 
as  of  fee  and  which  should  descend  to  him.  By  p.s. 

General  pardon  to  John  Colshill  of  Bynamy,  co.  Cornwall,  knight,  of  all 
offences  committed  by  him  before  24  October,  By  p.s, 


Membrane  5. 

Aug.  18.  Whereas  lately  in  the  absence  of  the  king  without  the  realm  on  the  part 
Westminster,  of  the  prior  and  convent  of  the  abbey  of  Cerne,  co.  Dor.sct,  it  was  shown  to 
Henry  VI  that  the  abbey  was  void  by  the  death  of  John  Vanne,  late  abbot, 
and  tlie  said  late  king  granted  licence  to  them  to  elect  an  abbot  and  tliey 
accordingly  elected  Roger  Bemystcr  and  the  said  late  king  gave  his  assent 
and  Richard,  bishop  of  Salisbury,  confirmed  the  election  and  the  said  lato 
king  restored  the  temporalities  to  the  abbot,  who  entered  unjustly  upon 
the  abbey  and  the  temporalities  without  the  licence  of  the  king  that  now 
is,  the  latter  nevertheless  pardons  the  trespasses  committed  in  this  and 
confirms  the  estate  of  the  abbot  and  restores  the  temporalities  to  him. 

By  p.s. 

Mandate  in  pursuance  to  the  escheator  in  the  county  of  Dorset. 
Writ  dc  intendendo  in  pursuance  to  the  tenants. 

Aug.  26.  Grant  to  the  king's  knight  John  Pylkyngton  and  the  heirs  male  of  his 
Westminster,  body  of  the  manors  of  Turvy,  Balstadan  and  Russho,  co.  Dublin,  with  the 
advowsons  of  the  churches  belonging  to  them  and  all  lands,  rents,  reversions, 
services,  courts  and  profits  in  Turvy,  Balst.adan  and  Russhe  late  parcel  of 
the  inheritance  of  James  Botiiler,  lute  earl  of  Wiltshire,  convicted  of  high 
treason  by  virtue  of  an  act  in  Parliament  at  Westminster,  4  November, 
I  Edward  IV,  to  hold  by  the  services  of  as  many  knights'  fees  and  as  many 
other  rents  and  services  as  they  were  held  by  before  4  November, 
1  Edward  IV,  with  all  issues  from  that  date.  By  p.s, 

Aug.  28.  Grant  to  the  king's  brother  George,  duke  of  Clarence,  and  the  heirs  of 
Westminster,  his  body,  in  lieu  of  a  grant  to  him  of  the  manor  and  lordship  of  Ilelagh 
with  its  members,  in  the  county  of  the  city  of  York,  20  messuages, 
300  acres  of  land,  20  acres  of  meadow,  100  acres  of  moor, 
three  corn  mills  and  a  fulling  mill  in  Tadcastre,  16  messuages 
in  York,  the  manors  and  lordships  of  Siwfford,  Lynton,  Semer, 
Trustenby  and  Poklyngton  with  the  suit  of  Poklington,  20  messuages, 
300  acres  of  laud,  80  acres  of  meadow,  20  acres  of  pasture  and  100  acres  of 
moor  in  Tadcastre  and  the  manor  and  lordship  of  Tadcastre  with  its 
members,  co.  York,  the  manor  and  lordship  of  Calsby  with  its  members  and 
30  acres  of  land  in  Malberthorpe  called  '  Moynes  landcs,'  co.  Lincoln,  and 
the  manors  and  lordships  of  Foston,  co.  Leicester,  Iselham,  co.  Cambridge, 
and  Gratefeld,  co.  Suffolk,  with  their  members,  late  of  Henry  Percy,  late 
earl  of  Northumberland,  by  letters  patent,  surrendered,  of  the  manor  and 
borough  of  Tyverton,  the  honour  and  hundred  of  Tyverton  with  the 
advowsons  of  three  portions  with  cures  in  tho  church  of  Tyverton,  the 


280 


CALENDAR  OF  PATENT  ROLLS. 


1471. 


Sept.  27. 
Westminster. 


Aug.  28. 
Westminster. 

Aug.  28. 

Westminster. 


Oct.  9. 
Westminster. 

Oct.  5. 

Westminster. 


Oct.  30. 
Westminster. 

Oct.  24. 
Westminster. 


Oct.  30. 

Westminster. 


Nov.  6. 

Westminster. 

Nov.  7. 
Westininster. 


Membrane  5 — cont. 

castles,  manors,  lordships,  boroughs  and  hundreds  of  Plyraton  and  Oke- 
hampton,  the  manor  and  borough  of  Chalvelegh,  the  manors  of  Colcombe, 
Clayton,  Musbury,  Colfard,  the  borough  of  Coliford,  the  manors  of  Opsame 
and  Exyland  alias  Westiate,  the  hundreds  of  Estbudlegb,  Westbudlegh, 
Wouford  and  Harige  with  the  fishery  of  the  water  of  Exe  and  the  manors 
and  lordships  of  Whitford,  Sapford  Courteney,  Culmo  John  and  Fareway, 
CO.  Devon,  the  manor  of  Trolugan  and  a  moiety  of  the  manors  of  Trevervyn 
and  Tregameur,  co.  Cornwall,  the  honours  of  Plymton  and  Okehampton 
and  all  lands,  knights'  fees,  advowsons,  rents  and  services  in  Tyverton, 
Okehampton,  Chalvelegh,  Colcombe,  Colyton,  Musbury,  Coliford,  Opsame, 
Exiland  alias  Westyate,  Whitford,  Sampford  Courteney,  Colmo  John, 
Fareway  and  Tregulam  and  a  moiety  of  the  manors  of  Trevervyn  and 
Tregamare  late  of  Thomas,  late  earl  of  Devon,  and  in  the  king's  hands  by 
reason  of  an  act  in  Parliament  at  Westminster,  4  November,  1  Edward  IV, 
and  all  issues  of  the  same  from  Easter  last,  to  hold  with  knight's  fees, 
advowsons,  parks,  fisheries,  warrens,  chaces,  fairs,  markets,  rents,  services 
of  free  tenants  and  bondmen,  courts  leet,  views  of  frank  pledge  and  other 
liberties  by  the  accustomed  services.  By  p.s. 

General  pardon  to  John  Borlas  of  Borlasfrank,  co.  Cornwall,  '  gentil- 
man,'  of  all  offences  committed  by  him  before  21  September  last.      By  p.s. 

The  like  to  the  following  : — 

William  Carnsyvyowe  late  of  Bokelly,  co.  Cornwall,  '  geutilman.' 
Henry  CavcU  late  of  Lanherne,  co.  Cornwall,  '  gentilman.* 
John  Rosogan  late  of  Rosogan,  co.  Cornwall,  'gentilman.' 

John  Wroughton  late  of  the  county  of  Wilts,  esquire. 
Vacated  because  otherwise  in  this  year. 

John  Neuton  of  Wyke  in  the  parish  of  Yatton,  co.  Somerset,  knight, 
alias  late  esquire.  By  K. 

Vacated  because  otherwise  in  this  year. 
General  pardon  to  John  Merer  late  of  London,  clerk,  alias  Master  John 
Morer,  parson  of  the  parish  church  of  Aysshbury,  co.  Berks. 

Grant  for  life  to  John  Wellys,  for  his  good  service  to  the  king  and  his 
consort,  of  the  office  of  porter  of  the  king's  castle  of  Exeter,  co.  Devon, 
which  Richard  Duke,  rebel,  lately  had,  with  fees  as  in  the  times  of 
Edward  III  and  Richard  II.  By  p,s. 

Membrane  4. 

General  pardon  to  Thomas,  bishop  of  St.  Asaph,  of  all  offences  committed 
by  him  before  24  October.    [Fcedera.']  By  p.s. 

Grant  for  life  to  Robert  Boost  of  the  office  of  one  of  the  king's  foresters 
within  the  forest  of  Ingeliswode,  co.  Cumberland,  with  the  accustomed 
fees,  as  John  a  Coldeale,  i-ebel,  lately  had.  By  p.s. 

Confirmation  of  the  estate  which  Master  John  Russell,  doctor  of  decrees, 
has  as  second  in  the  office  of  the  privy  seal,  and  grant  to  him  for  life  of 
40/.  yearly  from  21  March,  9  Edward  IV,  from  the  issues  of  the  counti(is 
of  London  and  Middlesex  and  all  other  farms  and  debts  in  the  charge  of 
the  sheriffs,  in  lieu  of  a  like  grant  to  him  by  letters  patent  of  that  date, 
surrendered.  By  K. 

Grant  to  Roger  Payn,  chaplain,  of  the  perpetual  chantry  in  the  parish 
church  of  Neuton  Popelford,  co.  Devon,  void  by  the  resignation  of  Henry 
Bremercombe,  last  chaplain. 

General  pardon  to  Henry  Chaterton  late  of  Clipisham,  co.  Rutland, 
knight,  of  all  offences  committed  by  him  before  4  November.  By  p.s. 


11  EDWARD  IV.— Part  I. 


281 


1471,  Membrane  4 — cont. 

Pardon  to  Walter  Courtenay  of  Exeter,  co.  Devon,  esquire,  of  all  fines, 
amercements  and  forfeited  issues  due  from  him  to  the  king  before  28  October 
last.  •  By  p.s. 

Oct.  24.        Licence  for  John  Broke,  son  and  heir  of  Edward   Broke,  knight, 
Westminster,  deceased,  tenant  in  chief,  to  enter  freely  into  all  castles,  lordships,  manors, 
lands,  reversions,  rents,  services,  fees,  views  of  frank-pledge,  courts  leet, 
knights'  fees,  advowsony  and  other  possessions  in  England  and  Calais  of 
which  his  father  was  seised  in  demesne  and  which  should  descend  to  him. 

By  p.s. 


Membrane  3. 


Sept.  7. 

Westminster. 

Sept.  6. 
Westminster. 


Sept.  10. 

Westminster, 


Aug.  8. 
AVestminster. 


Sept..  11. 
Westmiustcr. 


Aug.  28. 
Westminster. 

Oct.  2. 
Westminster. 


Oct.  7. 

Westminster. 


Oct.  10. 
Westminster. 


July  29. 
Westminster. 


General  pardon  to  WilUam  Druelle  late  of  London,  'gentilman,' of  all 
offences  committed  by  him  before  1  July  last.  By  p.s. 

General  pardon  to  John  Maynesforth  late  of  Bukkyngham,  co.  Bucking- 
ham, 'gcntilraan,' a/m5  John  Maynesford  lato  of  London,  of  all  offences 
committed  by  him  before  21  August  last.  By  p.s. 

Protection  for  one  year  for  Peter  Sans  of  Benesse,  who  is  indebted  to 
the  king  in  no  small  sums  of  money,  and  his  men,  servants,  ships,  goods 
and  merchandise.  By  p.s. 

Grant  to  the  king's  servant  Tiiomas  Vaghan,  treasurer  of  the  king's 
chamber,  and  his  heirs  of  a  mansion  or  habitation  which  he  formerly  liad 
of  the  king's  grant,  in  the  king's  hands  by  the  forfeiture  of  Jaspar,  late 
earl  of  Pembroke,  situated  on  the  ground  called  '  Garlek  '  in  Brokestrete 
on  the  north  and  west  of  the  parish  church  of  Stepinhith,  co.  Middlesex, 
Avith  gardens  and  closes  appertaining.  By  K. 

Vacated  because  othcrivise  in  this  year. 

Commission  to  the  king's  kinsman  John,  earl  of  Shrewsbury,  to  array  the 
king's  subjects  of  the  counties  of  Salop  and  Stafford  and  tlie  marches  of 
North  Wales  and  the  adjacent  parts  to  resist  the  rebels  in  North  Wales 
and  the  marches. 

General  pardon  to  John  Newton,  knight,  of  Wyke 
^atton,  CO.  Somerset,  alias  John  Ncweton,  late  esquire. 

Grant  for  life  to  the  king's  servant  Richard  Robynson,  yeoman  of  the 
saddles,  of  the  oiBcc  of  one  of  the  foresters  in  the  forest  of  Ingelwode, 
CO.  Cumberland,  with  the  accustomed  fees,  in  the  same  manner  as  Thomas 
Moreland,  By  p.s. 

Grant  for  life  to  the  king's  servant  William  Trussell,  one  of  the  yeomen 
of  the  crown,  of  the  office  of  keeper  of  the  king's  privy  palace  of 
Westminster,  receiving  the  accustomed  fees  in  the  same  manner  as  Richard 
Wylly,  deceased,  did  from  the  issues  of  the  fee-farm  of  the  city  of  Winchester. 

By  p.s.  [.-^340.] 

Mandate  in  pursuance  to  the  citizens,  bailiffs  or  other  occupiers  of 
the  city  of  Winchester. 

Grant  for  life  to  the  king's  servant  Richard  Siddalo  of  the  office  of  one 
of  the  king's  Serjeants  at  arms  in  attendance  on  the  .speaker  of  Parliament, 
as  John  Bury  was,  with  wages  of  V2.d.  daily  i'rom  the  issues  of  the  county 
of  Southampton  and  a  livery  of  the  suit  of  esquires  of  the  household  yearly 
at  Christmas  at  the  great  wardrobe.  By  p.s. 

Grant  to  John  Roggcr,  who  for  the  more  speedy  repayment  of  the 
sum  of  339/.  15*.  ^d.  which  was  due  from  the  king  to  (ho  merchants 
of  Venice,  as  appears  by  six  tallies  levied  at  the  receipt  of  tlie  Exchequer, 
has  become  bound  to  them  in  that  sum,  and  because  he  has  surrendered 


By  p.s. 

in  the  parisli  of 
By  K. 


282 


CALENDAR  OF  PATENT  ROLLS. 


1471. 


Nov.  9. 

Westminster. 


July  10, 

Westminster. 


Nov.  7. 

Westminster. 

July  14. 
Westminster. 

Nov.  10. 

Westminster. 


Nov.  9. 

Westmin.ster. 

Nov.  5. 

Westminster. 


Nov.  10. 

Westminster. 

Nov.  9. 
Westminster. 


Nov,  11. 
Westminster. 


Oct.  11. 
Westminster. 


Membrane  3 — cont. 

the  tallies  at  the  said  receipt,  that  he  or  his  executors  after  his  decease 
shall  receive  20/.  yearly  from  Michaelmas  next  from  the  issues  of  the  town  of 
Sandwich,  co.  Kent,  or  the  port  there,  until  he  shall  thus  be  fully  satisfied 
of  the  said  sum.  By  p.s. 

Membrane  2. 

General  pardon  to  Henry  Swayne  late  of  Salisbury,  co.  Wilts,  esquire, 
alias  '  raerchaunt,'  of  all  offences  committed  by  him  before  2  November. 

By  p.s. 

The  like  to  William  Swayne  late  of  Salisbury,  esquire,  alias  *  merchant.' 

By  p.s. 

Grant  for  life  to  the  king's  servant  Robert  Brent,  one  of  the  yeomen  of 
the  crown,  of  6cl.  daily  from  the  feast  of  St.  Peter  ad  Vincula  last,  on 
which  day  the  king  appointed  him  to  the  office,  from  the  issues  of  the 
subsidy  and  ulnage  of  cloth  and  a  moiety  of  the  forfeifnre  of  the  same  in 
the  county  of  Kent.  By  p.s. 

Mandate  in  pursuance  to  the  farmers  of  the  subsidy. 

General  pardon  to  John  Forde  of  Romene,  co.  Kent,  '  draper,'  alias 
merchant,  and  Clement  Forde  of  Romene,  merchant,  alias  *  taverner,' 
alias  masters  and  owners  of  a  ship  called  The  Christopher  of  Romene.  By  p.s. 

Pardon  to  Robert  Maners  late  of  Et.de,  co.  Northumberland,  knight, 
late  sheriff  of  Northumberland  from  Michaelmas,  3  Edward  IV,  until 
Michaelmas  following,  of  all  offences  committed  by  him  before  6  November 
and  all  fines,  issues,  debts,  accounts  and  arrears  due  from  him  to  the  king 
by  reason  of  his  office.  By  K. 

General  pardon  to  John  Webber,  vicar  of  Columpton,  co,  Devon,  of  all 
ofiences  committed  by  him  before  2  November.  By  p.s. 

Pardon  to  Richard  Clerk  of  Brodclyst,  co.  Devon,  '  husbondman,'  alias 
Richard  Lake  late  of  the  parish  of  All  Saints  within  the  hundred  of 
Brodclyst,  of  his  outlawry  with  others  in  the  county  of  Middlesex  for  not 
appearing  before  the  king  to  answer  for  divers  trespasses,  he  having 
surrendered  to  the  Marshalsea  prison,  as  Thomas  Billyng,  chief  justice  of 
the  King's  Bench,  has  certified. 

Grant  for  life  to  Edmund  Hastyuges,  knight,  of  the  office  of  the  constable- 
ship  of  the  king's  castle  of  Scarburgh  with  ail  fees,  as  Thomas  Lumley  or 
George  Lumley  or  anyone  else  had  in  the  same  office.  By  p.s. 

Grant,  at  the  intercession  of  the  king's  brother  Charles,  duke  of 
Burgundy,  to  Peter  Bladelyn,  knight,  temporal  lord  of  the  town  of 
Middelburgh  in  Flanders,  that  all  merchants  dwelling  in  that  town  shall 
henceforth  be  exempt  throughout  the  realm  of  England  from  all  toll  and 
other  dues  as  were  those  of  Dynant,  notwithstanding  that  the  said  town  of 
Middelburgh  is  not  comprehended  in  the  German  or  Teutonic  Hanse. 
[Fwdera.'\  By  p.s. 

Pardon  to  Elizabeth  Burgh,  daughter  of  William  Burgh  late  of  Burgh, 
CO.  York,  esquire,  and  administratrix  of  his  goods,  and  her  heirs  and 
executors  and  the  tenants  of  her  lands  of  all  debts,  accounts  and  arrears 
due  to  the  king  by  William  by  reason  of  the  occupation  of  the  alien  priory 
called  '  le  priorie  '  of  Begger,  co.  York,  before  31  October  last.       By  p.s. 

Membrane  1. 

General  pardon  to  John  Colyus  the  elder  of  the  city  of  London.    By  K. 


11  EDWARD  rv.— Part  I. 


283 


1471.  Membrane  1 — cont. 

July  8.  Appointment  of  the  king's  consort  Elizabeth,  queen  of  England,  the 
Westminster,  king's  kinsman  Th.  archbishop  of  Canterbury  and  cardinal,  the  king's 
brothers  George,  duke  of  Clarence,  and  Richard,  duke  of  Gloucester, 
R.  bishop  of  Bath  and  Wells,  the  chancellor,  L.  bishop  of  Duriiam,  the 
king's  kinsman  Anthony,  earl  of  llyvers,  Thomas,  abbot  of  Westminster, 
chancellor  of  the  king's  eldest  son  Edward,  prince  of  Wales,  William 
Hastynges  of  Hastynges,  knight,  the  king's  chamberlain,  Richard  Fenys  of 
Dacre,  knight,  steward  of  the  said  prince,  John  Fog,  knight,  John  Scot, 
knight,  Thomas  Vaghau,  chamberlain  of  the  said  prince.  Master  John 
Alcok  and  Ricliard  Fowelcr  as  administrators  of  the  principahty  of  Wales, 
the  duchy  of  Cornwall  and  the  county  of  Chester  for  the  said  prince  until 
he  shall  be  of  the  age  of  14  years,  provided  tbat  they  shall  grant  no  office 
for  life  or  for  a  term  of  years  but  only  during  the  pleasure  of  the  prince. 

By  K. 

Sept.  10.  Grant  to  Richard  Fowler,  Hugh  Fcnne,  John  Forster  and  Morgan 
Westminster.  Kedwelly  and  their  heirs  and  assigns  at  the  supplication  of  the  king's 
servitor  William  Kcrver,  in  satisfaction  of  the  sum  of  2,000/.  in  wliich  the 
king  is  indebted  to  the  latter,  of  five  messuages  and  580  acres  of  land  in 
Wallond  with  appurtenances  in  the  parishes  of  Brokland,  Ivecliirch, 
Oldromcne,  Mydle,  Lyde,  Pounteiie  and  Promehelle,  a  messuage  at 
Engeham,  400  acres  of  pasture,  62  acres  of  meadow  and  10  acres  of  wood 
in  the  parishes  of  Wodechirch  and  Betherisdeu,  ,300  acres  of  salt  marsh 
in  the  parishes  of  Pountene,  Mydle,  Lyde,  Promehelle  and  Brokland 
aforesaid  by  Walland,  100  acres  of  pasture  and  36  acres  of  meadow  in  the 
marsh  of  Romeney  in  the  parishes  of  liokynge,  Snave,  Orlaston,  Newcherch, 
Ivecherche  and  Saintmarychercli,  and  three  messuages,  two  mills,  217  acres 
of  land,  70  acres  of  meadow,  140  acres  of  wood  and  4/.  65.  8(/.  of  rent  in  the 
parishes  of  Tenterden  and  Rolvenden,  co.  Kent,  with  all  ways,  paths, 
feedings,  stanks,  fleets,  fisheries,  stews,  houses,  rigiits  and  profits,  lute  of 
John  Engeham  alius  Edyngham  alias  Ederyngliam  and  in  the  king's  hands 
by  reason  of  his  forfeiture,  and  all  issues  of  the  same  from  13  April  last,  to 
hold  by  the  accustomed  services,  and  also  the  reversion  on  the  death  of 
Agnes  hite  the  wife  of  Alan  Engeham  of  a  messuage  and  128  acres  of  land 
in  the  parishes  of  Wodechcrche  and  Ilalden,  co.  Kent,  which  she  holds  for 
life  of  the  inheritance  of  the  said  John.  And  if  the  above  shall  1)0 
taken  from  them  in  any  way  they  sliull  receive  100/.  yearly  at  the  receipt 
of  the  Exchequer  until  recompensed  with  other  lands  to  the  same  value. 

By  p.s. 

Oct.  IG.        Signification  to  .7.  bishop  of  Lincoln  of  the  royal  assent  to  the  election 
Westminster,  of  John  Grauntwell,  canon  of  the  monastery  of  St.  James  by  Norhamptou, 
of  the  order  of  St.  Augustine,  as  .ibbot  thereof 

Aug.  27.       Grant  to  the  king's  kinsman  William,  earl  of  Pembroke,  and  Walter 
Westminster.  Devereux  of  Ferrers,  knight,  of  power  to  receive  into  the  king's  allegiance 
all  rebels  of  South  Wales  and  the  marches,  provided  that  this  shall  not 
extend  to  Henry,  duke  of  Exeter,  Jasper  Owen,  earl  of  Pembroke,  John 
Owen,  gentleman,  Thomas  FitzHarry  or  Hugh  Mulle.  [^Fa;dcra.^ 

By  p.s. 

Membranes  29d — 26d. 
Commissions  of  the  peace  in  various  counties.   (See  Appendix.) 

Membrane  25d. 


April  18.  Commission  of  array  to  John  Cobham  of  Cobham,  knight,  John  Fogg, 
Westminster,  knight,  John  Scot,  knight,  William  Haute,  knight,  WilUiaui  Pecche,  knight. 


284 


CALENDAR  OF  PATENT  ROLLS. 


1471.  Membrane  25d — cont, 

John  Culpepyr,  knight,  Henry  Ferres,  John  Barame,  James  Crowemer, 
Alexander  ClyfFord  and  Roger  Apulton,  in  the  county  of  Kent. 

The  like  to  the  following  in  the  counties  named  : — 
April  23.  Humphrey  Stafford  and  Thomas  Stafford,  in  the  county  of  Worcester. 

Wesitmioster. 

April  26„  George,  duke  of  Clarence,  Richard,  duko  of  Gloucester,  Thomas 

Westmiuster.  Ariindell    of   Matravers,   kuight,   Richard   Beauchamp,  Maurice 

Berkeley,  Humphrey  Stafford  and  the  sheriff,  in  the  county  of 
Gloucester. 

George,  duke  of  Clarence,  William  Burghchier  of  FitzWaren,  knight, 
William  Courteney,  knight,  Alvred  Corneburgh  and  the  sheriff,  in 
the  county  of  Cornwall. 

George,  duke  of  Clarence,  Humphrey  (sic),  duke  of  Buckingham,  John, 
earl  of  Wiltshire,  Henry  Stafford  of  Buckingham,  knight,  Henry 
Grey  of  Codnor,  knight,  William  Hastynges  of  Hastynges,  knight, 
Walter  Blount  of  Mountjoy,  knight,  Nicholas  Fitzherberd  and  the 
sheriff,  in  the  county  of  Derby. 

George,  duke  of  Clarence,  Henry  Grey  of  Codnor,  knight,  William 
Hastyngos  of   Hastynges,  knight,  Walter  Blount   of  Mountjoy, 
knight,  Henry  Perpoynt  and  the  sheriff,  in  the  county  of  Netting 
ham. 

George,  duke  of  Clarence,  Richard,  duke  of  Gloucester,  John  Sutton 
of  Dudley,  knight,  Walter  Devereux  of  Ferrers,  knight,  Humphrey 
Blount,  Roger  Kynaston,  Roger  Eyton,  Richard  Corbet  and  the 
sheriff,  in  the  county  of  Salop. 

George,  duke  of  Clarence,  John,  earl  of  Wiltshire,  William  Hastynges 
of  Hastynges,  knight,  Thomas  Ferre.«,  knight,  Thomas  Berkeley, 
kuight,  Richard  Hastynges,  Ralph  Hastynges  and  the  sheriff,  in  the 
county  of  Leicester. 

George,  duke  of  Clarence,  William  Burghchier  of  FitzWaren,  knight, 
William  Courteney,  knight,  Philip  Courteney,  knight,  John  Crokker, 
Philip  Beaumont  and  the  sheriff,  in  the  county  of  Devon. 

George,  duke  of  Clarence,  Humphrey  (sic),  duke  of  Buckingham,  John, 
earl  of  Wiltshke,  Henry  Stafford  of  Buckingham,  knight,  Henry 
Beaumont,  John  Acton  and  the  sheriff,  in  the  county  of  Stafford. 

George,  duke  of  Clarence,  John  Audeley  of  Audelej',  knight,  John 
Stourton  of  Stourton,  knight,  Nicholas  Latymer,  knight,  John  Mone, 
John  Bi  ownyng  and  the  sheriff,  in  the  county  of  Dorset. 

George,  duke  of  Clarence,  Humphrey  (s/c),  duke  of  Buckingham,  John, 
eaid  of  Wiltshire,  Henry  Stafford  of  Buckingham,  knight,  William 
Hastynges  of  Hastynges,  knight,  and  the  sheriff,  in  the  county  of 
Warwick. 

George,  duke  of  Clarence,  John  Audeley  of  Audeley,  knight,  William 
Stourton  of  Stourton,  knight,  Roger  Tocotys,  knight,  George  Darcll, 
knight,  and  the  sheriff,  in  the  county  of  Wilts. 

George,  duke  of  Clarence,  William  Stourton  of  Stourton,  knight, 
Nicholas  Latjmer,  knight,  Henry  Hull,  Richard  Artour,  Robert 
Stovver  and  the  sheriff,  in  the  county  of  Somerset. 

George,  duke  of  Clarence,  Richard,  duke  of  Gloucester,  Waller 
Devereux  of  Ferrers,  knight,  John  Audeley  of  Audeley,  knight, 
James  Baskervile,  knight,  Richard  Crofte  the  elder,  Thomas 
Monyngton  and  the  sheriff,  in  the  county  of  Hereford. 


11  EDWARD  IV.— Part  I 


2471^  Membrane  25d — cont. 

May  11.  Edmund,  earl  of  Kent,  Anthony  Grey  of  Ruthyn,  kuiglit,  John  Horvy, 

Westmiustcr.  knight,  John  Broughton,  William  Hertishoin,  Roljcrt  Bothe,  John 

Cokeyn,  Richard  Godfray,  Thomas  Waweton  and  the  sheriff,  in  the 
county  of  Bedford. 
George,  duke  of  Clarence,  Edmund,  earl  of  Kent,  John,  earl  of 
Wiltshire,  Anthony  Grey  of  Ruthyn,  knight,  William  Hastyngcs  of 
Hastynges,  knight,  Ralph  Hastynges,  knight,  Richard  Hastynges, 
knight,  and  the  sheriff,  in  the  county  of  Northampton. 
As  above  in  the  county  of  Derby. 
As  above  in  the  county  of  Nottingham. 

  As  above  in  the  county  of  Leicester, 

  As  above  in  the  county  of  Stafford. 

  As  above  in  the  county  of  Warwick. 

  John  le  Scrope  of  Bolton,  knight,  Thomas  Grey,  knight,  Jolin  Cheyny, 

knight,  William  Alyngton,  Thomas  Lokton  and  the  sheriff,  in  the 
county  of  Cambridge. 

  John,  carl  of  Wiltshire,  Anthony  Grey  of  Ruthyn,  knight,  John  Foster, 

esquire,  William  Alyngton,  Henry  Torkyngton  and  the  sheriff,  in 
the  county  of  Huntingdon. 

  Anthony  Grey  of  Ruthyn,  knight,  John  Sturgeon,  Thomas  Broket, 

John  Pulter,  Henry  Barley,  Thomas  Edward  and  the  sheriff,  in  the 
county  of  Hertford. 

  Humphrey  (sic),  duke  of  Buckingham,  Anthony  Grey  of  Ruthyn, 

knight,  Edmund  Rede,  knight,  John  Langston,  John  Gyfford, 
Robert  Rufford,  Thomas  Hampden  of  Kymlett,  Thomas  Fowler  and 
the  sheriff,  in  the  county  of  Buckingham. 

—  -  John,  duke  of  Suffolk,  Richard  Hnrecourt,  knight,  Richard  Quatcr- 

maynes,  Thomas  Stonour,  Richard  Danvers,  Humphrey  Forstcr  the 
cldei-,  John  Langston,  John  Ilarecourte  and  the  sheriff,  in  the  county 
of  Oxford. 


Membrane  24c?. 

May  3.        Commission  to  the  king's^  kinsman  Anthony,  earl  Ryvers,  Edward 
Westmiustcr.  Novylle  of  Bergevenny,  knight,  Galiard  de  Duras,  knight,  John  Scot, 
knight,  William  Haut,  knight,  John  Culpcpyr,  knight,  and  the  MicritF  of 
Kent  to  array  the  king's  liegos  of  that  county  and  to  arrest  and  imprison 
certain  persons  stirring  up  insurrection. 

April  27.        Commission  to  the  constables  of  Toltynglrowe  to  arrest  Jolm  Byssetler 
Wtstiiiiustcr.  of  Gnwcscnde,  CO.  Kent,  '  peutcrere,' who  with  others  has  wounded  and 
threatened  divers  of  the  king's  lieges  and  especially  Robert  Okcy  and 
Maurice  Smyth,  and  bring  him  before  the  king  and  council  to  find  security 
for  good  behaviour. 

May  26.  Commission  to  William  Husy,  Brian  Talbot,  Thomas  Wynibyssh,  Simon 
'\Ve^tIllinstcr.  Hareby,  Thomas  Kyme,  Leonard  Thornebnrgh,  John  Bollcs,  William 
Payiiell,  William  Strode,  Tiiomas  Boyse,  John  Leek,  John  Tamwortii, 
John  Kyme,  William  Bolan  and  the  sheriff  of  Lincoln  to  arrest  Thomas 
Toccth,  John  Kyrton,  Thomas  Mcers,  John  Seynfon,  Humphrey  Lytlyll)y, 
Simon  Roper,  Henry  Wryght,  John  Pykeryng,  Alan  Roper,  John  Baxstar 
the  elder  and  Thomas  Godl'ray  and  bring  them  before  the  king  and  council 
in  the  octave  of  Holy  Trinity  next.  By  C 

The  like  to  William  Skypwith,  knight,  William  Husy,  Brian  Talbot,  Thomas 
Kyme,  Thomas  Moigne,  John  Copuldykc,  John  I3urgh,  Richard  Spert, 


^86  CALENDAR  OF  PATENT  ROLLS. 


1 47 1 .  Membrane  24(f — cont. 

Thomas  Kyme  of  Langton,  Richard  Braytoft,  John  Kyme  and  the  sheriff  of 
Lincoln  to  arrest  Margaret  Diminok,  Alice  Bocher,  Richard  GryfRth,  Roger, 
abbot  of  Kyrkstede,  Richard  Themulby,  Humphrey  Littelbnry,  John  Trudale, 
William  Yerburgh,  Thomas  Eitzwilliam  the  younger,  Simon  Gybthorpe, 
John  Newport,  Robert  Dymmok,  Charles  Aungesyn,  John  Saynton, 
William  Bavowe  of  Menkthorpe,  William  Halle,  John  Revell,  William 
Wormyngham,  Robert  Pelsou,  Simon  Godeknappe,  William  Warde, 
Nicholas  Walter,  John  Gote,  Thomas  Hobson,  John  Taylour  of  Connesby, 
John  Lekke,  Richard  Clerk  of  Belcheford,  clerk,  and  William  Dowghty 
and  bring  them  as  above. 

May  30.        Commission  to  Henry  Beaumont,  knight,  John  Acton,  esquii'e,  Nicholas 
Westminster.  Leventhorpe  and  John  Saiibroke,  one  of  the  king's  serjeants-at-arms, 
to  arrest  Robert  Loder,  chaplain,  and  bring  him  before  the  king  and 
council. 

June  3.        The  like  to  Roger  Ree,  knight^  to  arrest  William  Pyrton,  knight. 
Westminster. 

June  4.        The  like  to  Richard  Quatermayns,  esquire,  and  John  Gifford,  esquire, 
Westminster,  to  arrest  Peter  Marmyon,  '  gentilman,'  Richard  Doily,  '  gentilman,'  John 
Benet  the  elder,  John  Walkclyn,  '  chaundeler,'  Thomas  Tanner,  '  yoman,' 
Walter  Draper,  '  yoman,'  John  Cotteswold,  '  smyth,'  Oliver  Taillour, 
*  yoman,'  and  John  Howeden,  '  glover.' 

The  like  to  John  GyfFord,  esquire,  Robert  Breknok,  esquire,  and 
Thomas  Foweler,  esquire,  to  arrest  Thomas  Wellesborne,  Thomas  Codbury, 
'  yoman,'  Robert  Power  the  elder,  '  yoman,'  Robert  Power  the  younger, 
'  yoman,'  Richard  Spereman,  '  somner,'  William  Wedon,  '  yoman,'  and 
John  Batyn,  '  husbondman.' 

.Tune  7.  The  like  to  John  Gyiford,  Robert  Brekenoke,  Thomas  Foweler  and 
Westminster.  Robert  Rufford  to  arrest  Thomas  Wellesburne,  Thomas  Codbury,  *  yoman,' 
Robert  Power  the  elder,  '  yoman,'  Robert  Power  the  younger,  '  yoman,' 
Thomas  Power,  '  yoman,'  Richard  Spereman  the  elder,  William  Wedon, 
'  yoman,'  John  Baten,  *  husbondman,'  Richard  Awelde,  '  yoman,'  Thomas 
Batys',  '  dier,'  Thomas  Bere,  '  wever,'  and  John  Alclyn,  '  yoman.' 

June  20.  The  like  to  Edmund  Hastynges,  knight,  Ralph  Assheton,  knight,  John 
Westminster.  Athirton  and  John  Nesseffeld  to  arrest  Thomas  Gower,  Robert  Gower, 
George  GoAver,  John  Robynsou  of  Scarburgh,  Thomas  Saige  of 
Scarburgh,  Richard  Robynson  of  Scarburgh,  John  Robynson  of  Scarburgh 
the  younger,  John  Hybson,  John  Taillour  of  Beverley  and  Thomas 
Basworth. 

.Tune  20.       Commission  to  Nicholas  Elderbek,  John  Felde  the  younger,  John 
Westminster.  Reyner  and  William  Besteney,  serjeant-ut-arms,  to  arrest  Philip  Asteley 
and  bring  him  before  the  king  in  Chancery. 

.June  30.  The  like  to  John  Martyn,  one  of  the  king's  serjeants-at-arms,  and  the 
Westminster,  sheriff  of  Hertford  to  arrest  John  JMudde  of  Flampstede  and  Joan  his  Avife, 
John  Kellum  of  Busshey,  Richard  Lepar  of  Flampsted,  Walter  Payn  of 
Flampsted,  John  Middelham  of  Dunstaplc,  John  Baron  of  Flampsted, 
William  Baron  of  Flampstede,  John  Massam,  William  Spenser  of  Red- 
burnbury,  Thomas  Danyell  of  St.  Albans  and  John  Austyn. 

Juno  30.  Commission  to  the  same  to  arrest  the  same  and  bring  them  before  the 
Westminster,  king  and  council. 

July  13.        Commission  to  John  Assheby,  Robert  Fynderne  and  John  Thrylby 
Westminster,  to  arrest  Thomas  Floure  of  Okeham,  esquire,  and  Robert  Edmoud  of 
Empyngham  and  bring  them  before  the  king  and  council. 


11  EDWARD  IV.— Part  I. 


287 


1471.  Membrane  2ld. 

July  4.  Commission  to  Ralph  Assheton,  knight,  and  John  Nesfeld  to  arrest 
Westminster.  L.ancelot  Tliykekl,  knight,  TJiomas  Gower,  Thomas  Dounyng,  John 
Tayler  of  Yarsthorpe,  Thomas  Barswortli,  Thomas  Saghe  of  Scardburgh, 
John  Robynson  of  Scardbnrgh,  Richard  Robynson  of  Scardburgh,  John 
Robyuson  the  younger,  Richard  Fletham,  Edward  Thornburgh  and  Thomas 
Danell  and  bring  tliem  before  the  king  in  Chancery  and  seize  their  goods 
and  lands  into  the  king's  hands. 

3IE3IBRANE  20(1. 

July  4.         Coramis.sion  to  Richard  Foweler,  William  ^'larmyon,  Richard  Ilall  and 
Westmiuster.  the  sheriff  of  Oxford  and  Berks  to  enquire  what  lands  Robert  Ilarocourt, 
knight,  tenant  iu  chief,  decea.sed,  held  in  those  counties,  how  much  they 
are  worth,  on  what  day  ho  died  and  who  is  his  heir,  and  to  take  the  lauds 
into  the  king's  hands. 

The  like  to  William  Motton,  knight,  Robert  Staunton  and  the  sheriff  in 
the  counties  of  Warwick  and  Leicester. 

The  like  to  Hugh  Egertou,  Humphrey  Persall,  John  Wode  of  Kele  and 
the  sheriff  in  the  county  of  Stafford. 

July  8.  Commission  to  John  Bottesforde,  e.'jquire,  one  of  the  king's  serjeants-at- 
Westmiustcr.  arms,  and  Henry  Benet  and  William  Barnard,  constables  of  the  town  of 
Nubury,  to  arrest  John  Bedford  of  Nubery,  Avho  with  other  persons  in 
various  parts  of  the  county  of  Berk.-s  has  threatened  Tliomas  Love  of  Nubery, 
and  bring  him  before  the  king  and  council  to  find  security  for  keeping 
the  peace. 

Membrane  ]9d, 

July  27.  Commission  to  Masters  Richard  Marty n,  clerk,  Louis  Byford,  clerk,  and 
Westminster.  William  .Tohn.s,  canons  of  the  cathedral  church  of  Landaf,  on  account  of 
the  forfeiture  of  John,  bishop  of  Llandaff,  to  seize  the  temporalities  of  tho 
bishopric  and  apply  the  issues  to  tlie  sustenance  of  divine  service  in  the 
church  and  the  new  fabric  of  the  same  and  the  repair  of  the  manors  of 
the  bishopric.  By  K. 

Membrane  18d. 

July  12.  Commission  to  John  Gyfford,  esquire,  Robert  Brekenok,  e.squirc,  and 
WeitmiiiBter.  Thomas  Fow(!ler,  esquire,  to  arrest  Thomas  Wellcsbornc,  Thomas  Codbiwy, 
'  yoman,'  Robert  Rower  tijc  elder,  '  yoman,'  Robert  Rower  the  younger, 
'yomau,'  Richard  Si)crcman,  'somner,'  William  Wedon,  'yoman,'  John 
Batyn,  '  husbondman,'  Thomas  Clarence  of  Eton,  John  Lewcn  of  Burnhani 
the  younger,  'yoman,'  Walter  Knyght  of  Dorney,  'husbondman,'  and  John 
Water  of  Eten,  'yoman,'  and  bring  them  before  the  king  and  council. 

July  16.        The  like  to  the  maj-or  and  bailiffs  of  Oxford  to  arrest  John  Carpenter, 
Westminster.  '  taverner/ John  Belle,  *  taillour,' Rohiiid  Melen,  '  taverner,' Robert  York, 
'  conlcner,'  Richard  Kent,  'grocer,'  Thomas  Luffenham,  *  bocher,'  John 
Parro,  '  spicer,'  Robert  Crane,  '  fuller,'  John  Nasshe,  '  cobeler,'  John  Ryley, 
'  skyuncr,'  and  George  Sadyller. 

.Tuiy  15.  Commission  to  the  king's  kinsman  Henry,  earl  of  Efscx,  William 
Westminster,  Bourghchier  of  Bourghchiei',  knight.  Waiter  Mountjoye  of  Mountjoyo, 
knight,  Thomas  Mongomcry,  knight,  John  Wingefeld,  knight,  William 
Alyngton  and  John  Iiigaldesby  to  encpiirc  into  divers  insurrections  in  the 
county  of  I'^ssex  and  to  arrest  the  offenders  and  punish  them  or  deliver  them 
for  punishment  to  the  coustable  of  England  and  seize  their  goods  and  lands 
to  the  king's  use.  By  p.s. 

The   like   to   the  king's  kinsman  William,  earl   of  Arundell,  John 
Aiideloy  of  Audeley,  kniglit,  John  Dynham  of  Dynham,  knight,  Thomas 


^88  CALENDAR  OF  PATENT  ROLLS. 


July  20. 
Westminster. 


1471.  Membrane  \  %d — cont. 

Bourglichier,  knight,  John  Fogge,  knight,  John  Scotte,  knight,  Thomas 
Ichjngham,  knight,  John  Ferres,  knight,  William  Notyngham,  Nicholas 
Stathoni,  John  Digges,  William  Bolney,  Richard  Forster,  Thomas  Combes, 
Thomas  Leukenore  and  Roger  Brent  within  the  Cinque  Ports  and  their 
members.  By  p.s. 

Commission  to  William  Parre,  knight,  John  Parre,  knight,  Thomas 
Slrykiand,  knight,  and  Christopher  Moresby,  knight,  to  arrest  Lancelot 
Thirkeld,  knight,  Joan  Musgrave,  widow,  Thomas  Sandeford,  esquire, 
William  Musgrave,  Nicholas  Musgrave,  John  Musgrave,  Henry 
Belyngeham,  knight,  Roger  Belyngeham,  Christopher  Belyngeham,  James 
Belyugeham,  Alexander  Belyngeham,  Thomas  Skelton  son  and  heir  of 
John  Skelton  of  Brauncethwayte,  and  William  Lancastre  son  and  heir  of 
Roger  Lancastre,  esquire,  who  have  made  forfeiture  to  the  king,  and  bring 
them  before  the  king  and  council  and  seize  their  goods  and  lands  to  the 
king's  use. 

July  23.        Commission  to  John  Gilford,  Robert  Brekenok,  Thomas  Foweler  and 
Westminster.  Robert  Leggam  to   arrest  Robert  Ryseburgh,  canon,  late  abbot  of  the 
monastery  of  St.  Mary,  Mussenden,  co.  Buckingham,  and  bring  him  before 
the  king  and  council. 

Sept.  11.  Commission  to  Robert  Cosyn  and  Johu  Cole  to  seize  the  goods  of  Thomas 
Westminster.  Faucomberge,  traitor. 

Membrane  \\d. 

Oct.  15.       Commission  to  Geoffrey  Warton,  one  of  the  king's  Serjeants  at  arms,  to 
Westminster,  arrest  John  Mudde  and  Joan  his  wife,  William  Spenser,  Walter  Payne  and 
Richard  Leper  and  bring  them  before  the  king  and  council. 

Membrane  \0d. 

July  18.  Commission  de  walliis  et  fossatis  to  the  king's  kinsman  Henry,  earl  of 
Westminster.  Essex,  John  Grene,  John  Watno,  Robert  Martyn,  Morgan  Botiller, 
Thomas  Lute,  John  Gronerst,  William  Cook,  Robert  Hotoft  and  Richard 
Wroxham  on  the  shore  of  the  Thames  from  the  town  and  parish  of 
Esthamme  to  Hornedon  and  from  thence  to  Hokley  and  from  thence  to 
Tollesbury  and  Wyggebergh  in  the  county  of  Essex. 

Membrane  9d. 

July  28.        Commission  to  John  Devercux  and  John  Lynghan,  knights,  and  John 
Westminfeter.  Herbert,  esquire,  Thomas  Brayntcn  and  the  sheriff  of  Hereford  to  enquire 
what  lands  Richard  Herbert,  knight,  deceased,  tenant  in  chief,  hold  in  that 
county,  what  they  are  worth  and  who  is  his  heir,  and  to  take  the  lands  into 
the  king's  hands. 

Membrane  8d. 

July  15.  Commission  to  William  Courteney,  knight,  John  Crokker,  knight,  Oto 
Westminster.  Gilbert,  John  Gybbcs,  William  Huddesfeld,  Thomas  Gale,  William  Morys 
and  the  sheriff  of  Devon  to  enquire  into  the  complaint  of  John  Ochoa, 
merchBnt  and  owner  of  a  ship  called  le  Michell  of  Bilbawe  in  Spain  of  the 
portage  of  100  tuns,  that  certain  pirates  in  a  ship  called  le  Marye  Colder 
of  Dertemouth,  of  which  William  Forster  of  Dertemouth  and  John  Caldy 
were  owners  and  victuallers  and  John  Rede  master,  seized  a  ship  laden 
with  72  tuns  of  wine,  two  bales  of  rabbit  skins  and  other  goods  of  his  to 
the  value  of  6,477  crowns  when  sailing  towards  England  on  17  March  last 
under  confidence  in  the  peace  between  the  king  and  his  kinsman  the  king  of 
Castile  and  Leon  and  took  it  to  the  port  of  Dertemouth,  co,  Devon,  and 
spoiled  it  of  the  goods. 


11  EDWARD  IV.— Part  I. 


289 


147  !•  3Iemhrane  8d — cont. 

Oct.  16.        Commission  to  Henry  Spylman,  Ricliard  Southill,  Simon  Blake,  Eicliard 
Westminster.  Mounleyn  and  Jolin  Bulman  to  enquire  what  lands  George  Nevylle,  knight, 
late  lord  of  Latynier,  Henry  Nevylle,  knight,  and  Joan  his  Avil'e,  tenants  in 
chief,  held  in  the  county  of  Norfolk,  and  what  the  same  are  worth  and  at 
what  times  they  died  and  who  are  their  heirs. 

The  like  to  John  Broughton,  Thomas  Hampden  of  Kymbcll,  William 
Goldyngton,  Henry  Petyt,  William  Pekke,  llichard  More,  Robert  Pygot, 
John  Bulman  and  Simon  Burton  in  the  counties  of  Bedford  and  Buckingham. 

The  like  to  William  Coote,  William  Everton,  Leonard  Thornburgh, 
Simon  Burton  and  John  Bulmaain  the  county  of  Lincolu. 


Membrane  7d. 

Sept.  15.       Commission  to  Robert  RatcIyfT,  knight,  William  Husce,  Robert  Sheffeld, 
Wcstmiustur.  William  Coote  and  the  sheriff  of  Lincolu  to  enquire  what  lands  John, 
late  earl  of  Worcester,  deceased,  tenant  in  chief,  held  in  lhat  county,  what 
they  are  worth,  when  lie  died  and  who  is  his  heir,  and  to  take  them  into 
the  king'a  hands. 

31  EM  BRA  NE  3(1. 

Sept.  10.       Commission  to  William  Laken,  Thomas  Walron,  John  Hyde  and  the 
Westiniuster.   sheriff  of  Oxford  and  Berks  to  enquire  what  lands  Nicholas  Carrewe, 
esquire,  deceased,  tenant  in  chief,  held  in  those  counties,  what  they  are 
worth,  when  he  died  and  who  is  his  heir,  and  to  take  the  lands  into  the 
king's  hands. 

Sept.  11,       The  like  to  Thomas  Ferres,  knight,  William  Lucy,  Henry  Botillcr,  John 
Westmiuster.  West  and  the  sheriff  of  Warwick  to  enquiie  what  lands  John  Burgh, 
knight,  deceased,  tenant  in  chief,  hold  iu  lhat  county,  what  they  arc  worth, 
when  he  died  and  who  is  his  heir,  and  to  take  the  lands  into  the  king's 
hands. 

Aug.  3.  Commission  to  Richard  Eoteler,  Ralph  Moreton,  John  Chaunlrell,  Thomas 
Wtstminster.  Dene  the  younger,  John  Carre,  Geoffrey  Nicholson,  Richard  Bury,  John 
Croweherst  and  the  sheriff  of  Surrey  and  his  bailiff'  itinerant  to  arrest 
William  Burton,  John  Burlon,  Thonius  Fuller,  Jolin  Courtmyll  the  younger, 
Henry  Courtmyll,  John  Gadilesdeu,  ^^  illiam  Gamlyu,  Nicholas  Broke  and 
Richard  Paweley  who  with  other  evil-doers  Mander  about  the  country 
threatening  the  lung's  lieges,  and  bring  them  before  the  king  iu  Chancery 
to  find  security  for  keeping  the  peace. 


Membrane  Id. 

Aug.  27.        Commission  to  the  king's  kinsman  William,  carl  of  Pembroke,  and 
Wcstuiiiisfcr.    Walter  Devereux  of  Ferrers,  knight,  to  array  the  king's  lieges  of  South 
Wales,  the  counties  of  AVorcester,  Gloucester,  Hereford  and  hidop  and  the 
marches  of  Wales  and  the  adjacent  pjiits  to  resist  Jasper  Owen,  calling 
himself  earl  of  Pembroke,  and  other  rebels  there.  By  p.s. 

Aug.  27.  Connnisf-ion  cf  oyer  and  terminer  to  the  said  eail  and  Waltir  and 
WcsimiiiBicr.  William  Laken,  Richard  (.'liokkc,  knight,  Thomas  I^iltelton,  .Tohn  Devcreu.\, 
Knight,  James  Baskervylc,  knight,  'iValter  Skullc,  knight,  Thomas  I'errole, 
John  Herbert,  '1  lionias  Brnggcs,  Kenelm  Dygas,  Hugh  Hnnteley,  John 
Welford,  Thomas  Brayuton  and  John  Wynne  iu  the  parts  of  South  Wale.s- 
and  the  marches.  By  p.s. 


y  96186. 


T 


2do 


11  EDWARD  IV.— Part  II. 


1471.  Membrane  30. 

Aug.  0.  General  pardon  to  Walter  Wrattyslay  of  the  town  of  Calais,  knight, 
Westminster,  mercliant  of  the  staple  of  Calais,  alias  Walter  Wrattisley  late  of  Wrattislay, 
CO.  Stafford,  alias  Walter  Wrottisley  late  of  Loudon  ;  and  grant  that  he 
may  hold  all  lands,  possessions  and  offices  -which  he  had  of  the  king's  grant 
by  letters  patent  of  which  he  was  seised  on  3  March,  8  Edward  IV,  and 
all  his  goods,  saving  to  the  king  all  offices  within  the  towns  and  castles  of 
Calais  and  Guysnes  and  the  tower  of  Ruysbanque,  the  grants  of  which 
belonged  to  the  cajjtains  of  the  same.  By  p.s. 

The  like  to  the  following  : — 

Geoffrey  Gate,  marshal  of  the  town  of  Calais,  knight,  merchant  of  tho 
staple  of  Calais,  alias  late  of  Highester,  co.  Essex,  alias  late  of 
Garnettes,  co.  Essex,  alias  late  of  Haltou,  co.  Oxford,  alias  late 
lieutenant  of  the  king's  castle  of  Caresbroke  in  the  Isle  of  Wight, 
CO.  Southampton,  alias  late  of  Beauchamp  Redyng  alias  Longberus, 
CO.  Essex,  alias  late  of  Loudon.  By  p.s. 

John  Clynton  of  the  town  of  Calais,  lord  of  Clyuton  and  Say,  alias 
lord  of  Clynton  of  Folkestou,  co.  Kent.  By  p.s. 

John  Broralay  of  the  town  of  Calais,  knight,  alias  late  of  Badyngton, 
CO.  Chester,  alias  John  Bromeley  late  of  London. 

George  Neville  of  the  town  of  Calais,  '  soldcour,'  alias  esquire,  alias 
late  of  Carlyll,  co.  Cumberland,  'geutilman,  alias  late  of  London. 

By  p.s. 

Koland  V7orsley  of  tho  town  of  Calais, '  souldeour,'  alias  late  lieutenant 
of  the  tower  of  Ruysbanque  by  Calais,  '  gentilman.'  By  p.s. 

Robert  Warmyngton  of  the  town  of  Calais,  soldier,  alias  esquire,  alias 
burgess  of  the  town,  alias  clerk  of  the  war  treasury  within  tiie  town, 
alias  late  of  Warwick.  By  p.s. 

William  Boyvyle  of  Calais,  esquire,  alias  '  gentilman,'  alias '  soldeour,' 
alias  late  of  the  county  of  Rutland.  By  p.s. 

Anthouy  de  la  Toure  of  the  town  of  Calais,  '  soldeour,'  alias  '  burgeis,' 
alias  clerk,  alias  '  gentilman.'  By  p.s. 

John  Joseph  late  of  the  town  of  Calais,  '  soldeur,'  alias  of  Deale,  co. 
Kent,  '  gcutilmau,'  alias  late  of  Romeue,  co.  Kent.  By  p.s. 

William  Worsley,  one  of  the  aldermen  of  the  town  of  Calais,  alias 
burgess  of  the  town,  alias  mayor  of  the  town,  alias  late  of  the 
county  of  Lancaster,  '  gentilman.'  By  p.s. 

Ralph  Gerald,  merchant  of  the  staple  of  Calais,  alias  Ralph  Jerrald 
late  of  Howeby,  co.  Leiceslci',  '  merchaunt.'  By  p.s. 

John  Colte  of  the  town  of  Calais,  '  soldeour,'  alias  of  the  county  of 
Noi'thuniberland,  'yoman,'  alias  late  of  Newcastle  on  Tyne,  co. 
Norlhurabcrland,  '  marcliaunt,'  alias  late  of  Londou,  *  gentilman,' 
alias  late  of  the  county  of  Essex.  By  p.s. 

William  Rosse  of  the  staple  of  Calais,  merchant,  alias  burgess  of 
Calais,  alias  late  of  Bumbouigh,  co.  Northumberland,  alias  late  of 
Okham,  co.  Rutland,  alias  William  Ross.  By  p.s. 

John  Davy,  soldier  of  Calais,  alias  of  Horytid  Keynys,  co.  Sussex, 
'  yoman.'  By  p.s. 


11  EDWARD  IV.— Part  II. 


291 


1471.  Membrane  2iO — cont. 

Robert  Osclyffe  of  Ccalais,  '  soldeour,'  alias  '  yoman,*  son  of  Johu 
Osclyffe  late  of  Guysnes.  By  p.s. 

Richard  Ronebed  of  the  staple  of  Calais,  '  marcbauntc,'  alias  alderman 
of  Calais,  alias  burgess  of  Calais,  alias  Richard  Rounhed  late  of 
Carlile,  co.  Cumberland.  By  p.s. 

John  Wodclious  of  the  town  of  Calais,  esquire,  alias  late  soldier  of 
the  town,  alias  merchant  of  the  staple  of  Calais,  alias  burgess  of 
the  town,  alias  late  of  London,  'gentilmau.'  By  p.s. 

George  Bisipato,  knight,  soldier  of  the  town  of  Calais,  alias  late  of 
the  city  of  Constantinople,  alias  George  Bissipatle,  *  Greke.' 

By  p.s. 

Henry  Chainbre,  soldier  of  Calais,  alias  Henry  Person  late  of  Bourne, 
CO.  Lincoln,  alias  late  of  Roppesley,  co.  Lincoln,  alias  late  soldier 
of  the  castle  of  Guysnes,  alias  burgess  of  Calais,  By  p.s. 

William  Wolf,  soldier  of  Calais,  alias  late  of  Thrule,  esquire,  alias 
late  of  Stalisfeld,  co.  Kent,  'geutilman.'  By  p.s. 

John  Otour  alias  Ottyr  alias  Otter  of  Calais,  soldier,  alias  late  of 
Warwick,  'yoman,'  alias  late  of  Ufkelf,  co.  York,  ' gcntilnian,' a//o.? 
late  of  London,  alias  late  of  Ilainme,  co.  Essex,  alias  late  of 
Walcomstowe,  co.  f]ssex,  alias  late  of  Wci^tminster,  co.  Middlesex, 
alias  late  of  Sandwich,  co.  Kent.  By  p.s. 

Johu  Parker  of  the  staple  of  Calais,  '  marchaunt,'  alias  of  Faryngdon, 
CO.  Berks,  '  gentilman.'  By  p.s. 


Membrane  29. 

William  Muston  late  of  Stokebardalf,  co.  Nottingham,  'gentilman,' 
alias  soldier  of  Calais,  alias  burgess  of  Calais.  V>y  p.s. 

William  Burtofte,  burgess  of  the  town  of  Calais,  alias  soldier  of  Calais, 
alias  late  collector  and  receiver  of  the  king's  rents  and  farms  within 
the  town,  alias  late  of  London.  By  p.s. 

Richard  Stoke,  merchant  of  the  staj)lc  of  Calais,  alias  of  Tuttcbury, 
CO.  Slafibrd,  alias  Richard  Slokys.  By  \>.h. 

William  Brighara  of  the  town  of  Calais,  soldier,  alias  of  Brigham,  co. 
York,  cs(iuire.  By  p.s. 

John  Curtenay  alias  Courtenay,  esquire,  master  receiver  (portitoi) 
of  the  town  of  Calais,  alias  soldier  of  Calais,  alias  merchant  of  the 
staple  of  Calais,  o/icrs  burgess  of  the  town,  late  of  Powdram, 
CO.  Devon,  alias  son  of  Philip  Courtenay,  knight,  late  of  Powdram. 

By  p.s. 

Richard  Whetohlll,  esquire,  lieutenant  of  the  casllc  of  Guysnes,  alias 
late  mayor  of  Calais,  alias  late  soldier  of  Calais,  alias  controller  of 
the  town  and  the  marches  there,  alias  late  of  Barton  Pyncanye, 
CO.  Northampton,  alias  of  Sywell,  co.  Northampton,  alias  merchant 
of  the  staple  of  Calais,  alias  late  of  London.  By  p.s. 

Thomas  Waldcn  of  the  town  of  Calais,  '  gentilman,'  alias  late  of 
London,  alias  of  Guysnes,  alias  late  of  Walden,  co.  Essex,  alias 
late  of  Dcpford,  co.  Kent,  alias  merchant  of  the  stajde  of  Calais, 
alias  burgess  of  Calais.  By  p.s. 

John  Poley  of  Guysnes,* gentilman,'  alias  soldier  of  the  castle  of 
Guysnes,  alias  late  of  Boxstede,  co.  Sulfiplk,  'gentilman,'  alias  lato 
of  Staunton,  co.  Suffolk,  alias  late  of  Woruiyngford,  co.  Essex, 
alias  late  of  Colchestre,  co.  Essex.  By  p.s. 

T  2 


1 


292 


CALENDAR  OF  PATENT  ROLLS. 


1471.  Membrane  2^ — cont. 

John  Bowdon,  burgess  of  the  town  of  Calais,  alias  clerk  of  the  great 
hall  of  the  town,  alias  late  soldier  of  the  town,  alias  late  of 
Hauerbergh,  co.  Leicester.  By  p.s. 

Adrian  Whetehill  of  the  town  of  Calais,  esquire,  alias  controller  of 
the  town  and  marches,  alias  late  soldier  of  the  castle  of  Guysnes, 
alias  late  soldier  of  Colais,  alias  son  of  Richard  Whetehill,  esquire. 

By  p.s. 

Robert  Otour  alias  Ottyr  alias  Oter  of  Calais,  '  souldeour,'  alias  of 
Ulleskyll,  co.  York,  '  gentilman,'  alias  of  Alspath,  co.  Warwick. 

By  p.s. 

Doc.  12.  William  Rede  of  the  tOAvn  of  Calais,  burgess,  alias  William  Reed 

WestmiuKter.  late  of  Wrangle,  CO.  Lincoln,  '  gentylman.'  By  p.s. 


Oct.  2L 
Westminster. 


Got.  12. 

London. 


Oct.  30. 
Wcstmiuster. 


Nov.  7. 
Westminster. 

Nov.  8. 
Westminster. 

Nov.  22. 
Westminster. 

Nov.  20. 

Westminster. 

Nov.  20. 
Westminster. 

June  IG. 
Westminster. 


Membrane  28. 

General  pardon  to  William  Carewe  alias  Carrowe  of  Bury  St.  Edmunds, 
CO.  Suffolk,  esquire,  of  all  offences  committed  by  him  before  15  October 
and  all  debts  and  accounts  due  from  him  by  reason  of  his  late  office  of 
escheator  of  the  counties  of  Devon  and  Cornwall.  By  p.s. 

General  request  for  a  safe-conduct  for  the  king's  kinsman  Anthony 
Widevill,  earl  of  Rivers,  lord  of  Scales  of  Nucclles  and  the  Isle  of  Wight, 
knight  of  the  Garter  and  brother  of  the  king's  consort  Elizabeth,  queeu  of 
England,  who  is  going  to  fight  the  infidels.    \_Fcedera.']  By  K. 

Mandate  to  the  escheator  iu  the  county  of  Northampton  for  the  resti- 
tution of  the  temporalities  of  the  abbey  of  St.  James  by  Norliampton,  of 
the  order  of  St.  Augustine,  to  John  Grauntwell,  canon  of  the  monastery, 
whose  election  as  abbot  John,  bishop  of  Lincoln,  has  confirmed  and  whose 
fealty  the  king  has  taken. 

The  like  to  the  escheators  in  the  following  counties  : — 

Warwick  and  Leicester. 

Bedford  and  Buckingham. 
The  like  to  the  mayor  of  Norhampton,  the  escheator  iu  that  town. 
Writ  de  intendendo  in  pursuance  to  the  tenants. 

General  pardon  to  John  Crugge,  rector  or  portionor  of  the  second 
portion  of  the  parish  church  of  'i'yverton,  co.  Devon,  aliai  late  of  Tyverton, 
clerk,  alias  one  of  the  rectors  of  Tyverton  called  Clare.  By  p.s. 

General  pardon  to  Richard  Dryucll  late  of  Exeter,  co.  Devon,  esquire, 
alias  Richard  Drowell,  merchant,  alias  Richard  Druell  of  Halberton,  co. 
Devon,  '  gentilman.'  By  p.s. 

Grant  to  William  Moton,  esquire,  of  160/.  from  the  issues  of  the 
counties  of  Warwick  and  licicestcr.  By  p.s. 

General  pardon  to  William,  abbot  of  Peterborough,  co.  Northampton. 

By  p.s. 

The  like  to  Richard  Assheton,  monk,  late  abbot.  By  p.s. 

Appointment,  during  good  beliuviour,  of  William  Ilusce  as  the  king's 
general  attorney  iu  all  courts  of  record  in  England,  receiving  the 
accustomed  fees.  By  K. 

Schedule. 

These  letters  were  vacated  becavse  surrendered  hy  the  said  William 
and  cancelled  hy  Laurence,  hishop  of  Durham,  the  chancellor,  on 
18  October,  13  Edward  IV.  on  ivhich  day  the  king  granted  the  office  to 
William  by  other  letters  patmt. 


11  EDWARD  IV.— Part  11. 


203 


1472.  Membrane  28 — cont. 

Feb,  4.        General  pardon  to  Richard  Welby,  esquire,  late  sheriff  of  Lincoln,  of  all 
Westminster,  offences  committed  by  liim  and    all    issues,  fines,  amercements,  debts, 
accounts  and  arrears  due  from  him  to  the  king  by  reason  of  his  office. 

By  p.s. 

Jan.  15.  Release  to  John  Moone,  esquire,  in  consideration  of  Lis  title  to  the  manors 
"Westminster,  and  for  100/.  paid  by  him  to  the  king,  of  all  the  king's  title  and  claim  to 
the  manors  of  Fifeld  Quintyn  and  Godraanston,  co.  Dorset,  with  their 
members,  to  hold  to  the  said  .John  and  his  heirs  and  assigns  by  the  services 
of  as  many  knights'  fees  and  as  many  olher  rents  and  services  as  they 
were  held  by  before  4  March,  1  Edward  IV.  By  p.s. 

1471. 

June  2.3.  Grant  for  life  to  the  king's  servant  Richard  Lceder,  one  of  the  yeomen 
Westminster,  of  the  king's  chamber,  for  his  good  service  to  tiie  king  beyond  the  seas 
and  in  his  conflicts  in  England,  of  the  office  of  keeper  of  the  keys  of  the 
new  work  in  the  upper  bailiwick  of  the  castle  of  Wyndcsore,  co.  Berks, 
with  fees  at  the  hands  of  the  constable  from  the  issues  of  the  castle  as 
John  Austyn  lately  had  in  the  office.  l>y  p.s. 

Membrane  27. 

Sept.  11.       Grant  to  the  king's  kinsman  John,  earl  of  Shrewsbury,  chief  justice  of 
Westminster.  Nortii  Wales,  of  power  to  receive  into  tlie  king's  grace  and  pardon  any 
persons  in  the  parts  of  North  Wales  and  the  marches  of  the  same  and 
within  the  king's  castle  of  Ilardelagh.  By  p.s. 

Oct.  12.  Pardon  to  Wilham  Gogh  of  London,  '  tnillour,'  of  his  outlawry  in  the 
Westminster,  county  of  Warwick  for  not  appearing  before  the  king  to  satisfy  him  of  his 
ransom  because  he  and  others  did  not  hold  Thomas  Wyscman  alias  Frende 
late  of  Stratford  on  Aven,  co.  Warwick,  '  yoman,'  before  the  late  king  at  a 
certain  day  to  answer  for  divers  felonies  and  trespasses ;  he  having 
surrendered  to  the  Marshalsca  prison,  as  Thomas  Billyng,  chief  justice, 
has  certified. 

Oct.  15.       Grant  for  life  to  the  king's  servant  John  Barret,  one  of  the  clerks  of  tho 
Westmiustcr.  king's  kitchen,  of  the  office  of  constable  of  the  king's  castle  of  Old  Sarum 
with  the  accustomed  fees  from  the  issues  of  tiie  county  of  Wilts  and  all 
other  profits  pertaining  to  the  office.  By  p.s. 

Oct.  18.        General  pardon  to  Robert  Spirway  alias  Sperweye  alias  Spurwey  alias 
Westminster.  Sporwcye   alias   Sjiaiweye   alias   Sperweys   of  Tyvcrtoii,   co.  Devon, 
*  jentilman,'  of  all  offences  committed  hy  him  before  16  October.      By  p.s. 

Oct.  16'.  Pardon  to  Thomas,  cardinal  archbishop  of  Canterbury,  late  bishop  of 
Westminster.  Ely,  William,  bishop  of  Winohe.ster,  John  Tymperley,  esquire,  Edmund 
FitzWilliam,  esquire,  Ilonry  Bradfcld,  clerk,  and  Tiiomas  Danycll  of  all 
alienations,  donations  and  percpiisitions  of  manors,  hundreds,  lands,  rents 
and  services  late  of  John,  late  duke  of  Norfolk,  held  in  chief,  and  also  to 
Eleanor,  duchess  of  Norfolk,  late  the  wife  of  the  said  duke,  and  John 
Straunge,  esquire ;  and  grant  to  the  said  duchess  of  all  issues  of  the  above. 

By  p.s. 

May  20.        Grant,  during  office,  to  Thomas  Urswyk,  knight,  chief  baron  of  the 
Westminster.  Exchequer,  for  the  better  maintenance  of  his  estate  and  his  expenses  in 
office,  of  110  marks  yearly  at  the  Exchc(iuer  and  two  robes  yearly,  one 
witli  skin  at  Christmas  and  one  with  lining  at  "Wlutsuntide,  beyond  the 
accustomed  fee. 

Oct.  2.'}.  Grant  for  life  to  the  king's  servant  .Tohu  Puncho,  one  of  tlie  yeomen  of 
Westminster,  the  crown,  of  the  office  of  constablo  of  the  king's  castle  of  Shrowesbury, 


294 


CALENDAR  OF  PATENT  ROLLS. 


1471. 


May  29. 

■Westiuinstei'. 


June  17. 
Westminster. 

Dec.  27. 

Westminster. 


Membrane  27 — cont. 
receiving  the  accustomed  fees  in  the  same  manner  as  Roger  Eton,  deceased, 
from  the  issues  of  the  fee  farm  of  the  town  of  Shrowesbury.  By  p.s. 

Grant  to  Thomas  Bryan,  chief  justice  of  the  Bench,  for  the  better 
maintenance  of  his  estate  and  his  expenses  in  office,  of  140  marks  yearly  at 
the  hands  of  the  clerk  or  keeper  of  the  hanaper  or  the  customers  in  the 
ports  of  London,  Bristol  and  Kyngeston  on  Hull  according  to  the  form  of 
an  act  in  Parliament  at  Westminster,  18  Henry  VI,  and  106^.  \l\d.  and  the 
sixth  part  of  \d.  yearly  at  Christmas  for  a  robe  and  fur  and  6Gs.  Qd,  yearly 
at  Whitsuntide  for  a  robe  and  lining. 

Vacated  because  below. 

Like  grant  to  Richard  Chokke,  knight,  one  of  the  justices  of  the  Beach, 
of  110  marks  yeai'ly  and  sums  for  robes  as  above. 

Presentation  of  Thomas  Wakeford,  chaplain,  to  the  chantry  called 
'Mortymers  Chauntery'  within  the  cathedral  church  of  Chichester,  void  by 
the  death  of  Nicholas  Serle,  chaplain. 


Dec.  2. 

Westminster. 


Sept.  24. 
Westminster. 

Dec.  10. 

Westminster. 

Dec.  15. 

Westminster. 

Dec.  22. 

Westminster. 


Dec.  4. 

Westminster. 

Sept.  11. 
Westminster. 


Membrane  26. 

General  pardon  to  the  king's  kinswoman  Margaret,  duchess  of  Somerset, 
of  Maxsey  or  Makesey,  co.  Northampton,  of  all  offences  committed  by  her 
before  this  date,  and  all  fines,  amercements,  debts,  accounts  and  arrears  due 
from  her  to  the  king  before  29  September,  9  Edward  IV.  By  p.s. 

General  pardon  to  John  Arundell,  bishop  of  Chichester.  By  p.s. 

The  like  to  Thomas  Fitz William  the  younger  late  of  Cokerjngton, 

By  p.s. 

The  like  to  John,  abbot  of  the  monastery  of  St.  Martin,  Battle.     By  p.s. 

Grant  to  John  Leighton,  esquire,  in  consideration  of  his  great  charges 
in  the  king's  service,  of  the  custody  of  all  lordships,  manors,  lands, 
rents  and  services  in  the  counties  of  Salop,  Gloucester,  Worcester  and 
W^arwick  and  the  march  of  Wales  adjoining  the  county  of  Salop  and 
■within  the  principality  of  Wales  in  the  king's  hands  by  the  death  of  John 
Burgh,  knight,  and  Joan  his  wife  and  by  reason  of  the  minority  of  Thomas 
Leighton  son  of  the  said  John  Leighton  and  Ankaret  his  wife,  deceased,  one 
of  the  four  daughters  and  heiresses  of  the  said  John  Bui'gh  and  Joan,  to 
hold  during  minority.  By  p.s. 

Grant  to  Angelo  Catane  late  of  Genoa,  merchant,  born  in  Genoa,  of  letters 
of  denization.  By  K. 

Grant  to  the  king's  kinsman  John,  earl  of  Shrewsbury,  and  the  heirs 
male  of  his  body  of  the  reversion  of  the  manors  of  Addcrley,  co.  Salop,  and 
Orston,  CO.  Nottingham,  lately  belonging  to  the  lord  of  Roos  and  forfeited 
to  the  king  by  reason  of  his  treason.  By  p.s. 


Membrane  25. 

Oct.  26.  General  pardon  to  John  Stanbery  alias  Stonbery,  bishop  of  Hereford,  of 
Westminster,  all  otfcnces  committed  by  him  I'ofore  23  October.    {Feedera.]  Byps. 

Nov.  12.        Presentation  of  Griffith  ap  Howell,  chaplain,  to  the  parish  church  of 
Westminster.  ]a  More,  in  the  diocese  of  Hereford,  void  by  the  demise  of  David  ap  Howell, 
last  parson, 

Nov.  13.  General  pardon  to  Reginald  Stourton  of  West  Bowre,  co.  Somerset, 
Westminster,  knight,  of  all  offences  committed  by  liim  before  5  November.  By  p.s. 


11  EDWAED  IV.— Part  11. 


295 


1471,  Membrane  25 — cont. 

Nov.  18.  Licence,  for  33*.  4(/.  paid  ia  the  hanai^er,  for  Thomas  Wyndesore, 
Westminster,  esquire,  and  Thomas  Waldieff  to  enfeoff  Edmund  Rede,  knight,  and 
Katharine  his  wife  of  their  manor  of  Hampton  Poyle,  co.  Oxford,  heUl  in 
chief,  to  hohl  for  her  life  witliont  impeachment  of  waste,  with  succes.sive 
remainders  to  George  Gaynesford  and  Isabel  his  wife  and  the  heirs  of  his 
body,  the  heirs  of  the  bodies  of  John  Gaynesford,  esquire,  now  deceased, 
and  the  said  Katharine,  late  his  wife,  and  the  right  heirs  of  the  said  John. 

Nov.  18.  Presentation  of  Richard  Wodward  to  the  parish  church  of  Duddynghcrst, 
Westminster,  in  the  diocese  of  London,  void  by  the  death  of  William  Dyk,  last  parson. 

Nov.  20.  Exemplification,  at  the  request  of  Arnold  Trussell,  of  letters  patent  dated 
Westminster.  12  July,  11  Edward  IV,  granting  safe-conduct,  at  the  supplication  of 
James  de  la  Pendile,  for  a  ship  called  Ic  Kateri/ne  of  France  or  Brittany 
of  the  portage  of  100  tuns  of  Avhich  Peter  le  Breton,  John  do  Bretayna, 
Bertomyo  de  Haoas  or  Monholet  de  Ilaoas  is  master.  These  letters  have 
been  accidentally  lost,  as  the  said  Arnold  has  taken  oath  in  Chancery,  and 
will  be  surrendered  if  found.  [French  Roll,  II  Edward  IV.  m.  23.] 

Oct.  3.  General  pardon  to  John  Starkey,  chaplain,  of  all  offences  committed  by 
Westmiustev.  him  before  4  September.  By  p.s. 

Dec.  2.         Grant  to  William  Clayton,  parson  of  the  parish  chutch  of  St.  Mary, 
Westminster.  Stanhope,  in  the  diocese  of  Durham,  of  the  canonry  and  jirebend  of  Welton 
Ryvall  in  the  cathedral  church  of  Lincoln,  on  an  exchange  of  benefices  with 
Stephen  Clos.  By  K. 

Mandate  in  pursuance  to  the  dean  and  chapter  of  the  said  church  of 
Lincoln. 

dean  and  chapter  of  the  cathedral  church  of  St.  Mary, 
I  bishop  in  the  place  of  John  Chedworth,  deceased. 

By  p.s. 


Dec.  7. 

Westminster. 

1472. 

Jan.  17. 
Wcstmiuster. 


Jan.  27. 
Westminster. 


Licence  for  the 
Lincoln,  to  elect 
[Fadera.'] 


Grant  for  life  to  the  king's  servitor  Peter  Curteys  from  Michaelmas  lost 
of  the  olRce  and  custody  of  the  king's  wardrobe  within  the  palace  of 
Westminster  which  Richard  Willy,  deceased,  lately  had,  receiving  the 
accustomed  fees  as  in  the  times  of  Edward  III  and  Richard  II  from  tho 
farm  of  the  city  of  Winchester.  By  p.s. 

Revocation  of  the  protection  with  clause  volinnus,  for  one  year,  lately 
granted  by  letters  patent  to  Thomas  Thorndon  alias  Thoryndon  of  London, 
'  draper,'  going  on  the  king's  service  in  the  company  of  William,  lord  of 
Hastynges,  lieutenant  of  tlic  town  of  Calais,  on  the  safe-custody,  defence  and 
victualling  of  the  town  and  marches,  because  ho  delays  at  Westminster,  as 
the  sheriff  of  IMiddlesex  has  certified. 


1471,  Membrane  21. 

Sept.  23.       Grant  for  life  to  John  Gylos,  William  Gull,  one  of  the  clerks  of  tlie 
Westminster,  chapel  of  the  king's  household,  and  John  Niccoll  of  the  scrutiny  and  super- 
vision of  all  '  bercbrewcrs '  within  the  realm  in  the  same  manner  as  the 
same  was  granted  to  Richard  Bclc,  Robert  Oldum  and  John  Gyles  by  letters 
patent  dated  29  June,  5  Edward  IV,  surrendered.  By  K. 

Dec.  10.  Grant  to  the  king's  kinsman  Thonia.s,  cardinal  archbishop  of  Canterbury, 
Westminster,  in  lieu  of  a  grant  to  him  by  letters  patent  dated  10  May,  10  Edward  IV. 

{ace  p.  209),  surrendered,  and  a  grant  to  him  of  the  custody  of  all  Icirdshij)s, 
manors,  lands,  rents  and  other  hercdilaments  late  of  George  Neville,  knight, 
late  lord  Latymcr,  and  Henry  Neville,  knight,  his  .son  and  Joau  "tho 
wife  of  the  latter,  tenants  in  chief,  deceased,  during  the  nn'nority  of 
Richard,  son   (f  the  said  Henry  and  kinsman  and  heir  of  the  said 


296 


CALENDAR  OF  PATENT  ROLLS. 


1471.  Membrane  24 — cont. 

George,  by  letters  patent  dated  4  July  last,  surrendered,  and  because 
in  time  past  at  the  king's  request  he  supported  the  king's  brothers  the 
dukes  of  Clarence  and  Gloucester  for  a  long  time  at  great  charges,  and  for 
tlie  sum  of  1,000  marks  paid  to  the  king,  of  the  custody  of  all  honours,  castles, 
lordships,  hundreds,  manors,  lands,  rents,  services  and  other  possessions  with 
knight's  fee?,  advowsons  and  appointments  of  officers  late  of  the  said 
George,  Henry  and  Joan,  and  the  custody  during  minority  and  marriage 
of  the  said  Richard  without  disparagement  and  so  from  heir  to  heir,  finding  a 
reasonable  sustenance  for  the  heir.  By  p.s. 

Dec.  29.       Grant  to  the  king's  clerk  Edmund  Audeley  of  the  prebend  of  Farendon 
Westminster,  with  Balderton  in  the  cathedral  church  of  St.  Mary,  Lincoln,  void  by  the 
resignation  of  Master  Richard  Skyllyngton  and  in  the  king's  gift  by  reason 
of  the  temporalities  of  the  bishopric  being  in  his  hands.  By  K. 

Mandate  in  pursuance  to  the  dean  and  chapter. 

1472. 

Jan.  2.         Presentation  of  Robert  Gest  to  the  chantry  called  '  Mortymers  Chauntry ' 
Westminster,  within  the  cathedral  church  of  Chichester,  void  by  the  death  of  Nicholas 
Sorell,  chaplain. 

.Jan.  1.  Grant  for  life  to  the  king's  servant  Richard  Apslee  of  the  office  of  one 
Westminster,  of  the  king's  Serjeants  at  arms  with  wages  of  \2d.  daily  as  Thomas  Osberne 
had  from  21  December  last,  on  which  day  the  said  Thomas  died  and  Richard 
occupied  the  office,  from  the  subsidy  and  ulnage  of  cloth  and  a  moiety  of 
the  forfeiture  of  the  same  in  the  town  of  Bristol,  and  a  livery  of  the  suit 
of  esquires  of  the  household  yearly  at  Christmas  at  the  great  wardrobe. 

By  p.s. 


Id71. 

Nov.  21. 

Westminster. 


Oct.  13. 

Westminster. 

July  9. 
Westminster. 


Nov.  29. 

AVestminster. 


Membrane  23. 

Whereas  lately  in  the  absence  of  the  king  without  the  realm  on  the  part 
of  the  prioress  and  convent  of  the  monastery  of  Wilton,  co.  Wilts,  it  was 
shown  to  Henry  VI.  that  the  monastery  was  void  by  the  death  of  Edith 
Bcrgh,  late  abbess,  and  the  said  late  king  granted  licence  to  them  to  elect 
an  abbess  and  they  accordingly  elected  Alice  Comeland,  sacristan  of  the 
place,  and  the  said  late  king  gave  his  assent  and  Richard,  bishop  of  Salis- 
bury, confiimed  the  election  and  the  said  late  king  restored  the  temporalities 
to  the  abbess,  the  king  nevertheless  pardons  the  trespasses  committed  in 
this  and  confirms  ihe  estate  of  the  abbess  and  restores  the  temporalities  to 
her.  By  p.s. 

Mandate  to  Richard  Hide,  late  e-cheator  in  the  county  of  Wilts,  to  permit 
the  said  abbess,  Avhose  fealty  the  king  has  ordered  to  be  taken  by  William 
Ivo,  clerk,  to  hold  the  tempoi'alities  of  the  abbey. 

The  like  to  the  escheators  in  the  following  counties  : — 
Devon  and  Cornwall. 
Somei'set  and  Dorset. 

Writ  de  intendendo  in  pursuance  to  the  tenants. 

General  pardon  to  John  Fortescu,  knight,  of  all  ofTences  committed  by 
him  before  9  July  last.  By  p.s. 

Appointment,  during  pleasure,  of  John  Brumston,  esquire,  as  keeper  of 
the  city  and  suburbs  of  Canterbury,  the  liberties  and  franchises  of  which 
have  been  taken  into  the  king's  hands.  By  K. 

General  pardon  to  Walter  Pauncefote  of  Compton  Pauncefote,  co. 
Somerset,  knight,  of  all  offences  committed  by  him  before  24  November. 

By  p.s. 


11  EDWARD  IV.— Part  II. 


297 


1471.  Membrane  23 — cont. 

Nov.  20.  Grant  to  James  Blundell,  esquire,  born  in  the  duchy  of  Normandy,  of 
Westminster,  letters  of  denization.  By  p.s. 

Dec.  7.  Grant  to  William  Stanley,  knight,  and  Elizabeth  his  wife,  late  the 
■\Vestmiu.stcr.  wife  of  .John,  eail  of  Worcester,  tenant  in  chief,  of  the  custody  of  all 
castles,  lordships,  manors,  lands,  vents,  services  and  other  possessions  with 
knij^hts'  fees  and  advowsons  late  of  the  said  John  during  the  minority  of 
Edward  iiis  son  and  heir  and  the  custody  and  marriage  of  the  latter  without 
disparagement,  and  so  from  heir  to  heir,  By  p.s. 


Dec.  4. 

Westminster. 


Nov.  21. 
Westmiuster, 


Nov.  29. 
Westminster. 


Membrane  22. 

Grant  to  the  king's  brother  RlTihard,  duke  of  Gloucester,  and  the  lieirs 
male  of  his  body  of  the  castles,  honours,  manors  or  lordships  of  Hethiugham 
Castle,  Hethingham  Sibill,  Langdou  Hall,  Dodynghyrst,  Fyngryth  in 
Blakmore,  Crustwych,  Beniond,  Bcnteley,  Yeldliam  Hall,  Bumsted 
Helyon,  Steple  Bumsted,  Eston  Hail,  Colne,  Crii)pyngha11,  Stantede 
Mounfichet  and  Canefeld,  co.  Essex,  the  custody  and  stewardship  of  the 
forest  of  Essex  and  the  power  of  appointing  and  removing  a  lieutenant,  a 
riding  forester  and  three  foresters  on  foot  called  '  yomen  forsters,'  the 
castles,  honours,  lordships  and  manors  of  Habendon,  Dnllyngiiam,  Saxton, 
Camps,  Swaveham  and  Flengston,  co.  Cambridge,  the  manor  or  lordship  of 
Horuemcde,  co.  Hertford,  the  manors  or  lordsiiips  of  Lavenham,  Mendham, 
Tadyngston,  Cokefeld,  Aldenham  and  Preston,  co.  Suffolk,  the  manor  cr 
lordship  of  Flete,  co.  Kent,  the  manor  or  lordship  of  Chesham  Aston 
Staunford,  co.  Buckingham,  the  manor  or  lordship  of  Chepyngnorton,  co. 
Oxford,  and  the  manors  or  lordships  of  Poldeve,  Roseneython,  Etheron, 
Prodannek  and  Ponhale,  co.  Cornwall,  late  of  Joiin,  late  earl  of  Oxford,  and 
forfeited  to  the  king  by  his  rebeUion,  the  manors  or  lordsiiips  of  Westhordon, 
Purters  in  Stebbyng,  Gymgrauf,  Shenfeld,  Cravenham,  Estilbury, 
Westilbury  and  Ame.s,  co.  Essex,  late  of  Lewis  Fitz  John  and  forfeited  to 
the  king  by  his  rebellion,  tlic  manors  or  lordships  of  Chardeacre,  llerthurst, 
Gilford,  Boxstedo  and  Siielloy,  co.  Suffolk,  and  the  manor  of  Enbalc,  co. 
Cambridge,  late  of  Robert  Ilarleston,  esquire,  and  forfeited  to  the  king  by 
his  rebellion,  the  manors  or  lordships  of  Skreveiby,  Ilornccastell,  Maryng, 
Overtyngton,  Marom,  Screvelby,  Ulfrire,  Thornoton,  Connesby  and 
Donyngton,  co.  Lincoln,  late  of  Tiiomas  Dymmok,  knight,  and  forfeited  to 
the  king  by  his  rebellion,  the  manors  or  lordships  of  Sutton,  Tid  St.  Mary, 
Tid  St.  Giles,  Gosberkyrke,  Moreton,  Surflete,  Withaui,  Northwittam, 
Neuton  and  Walcote,  co,  Lincoln,  and  the  manors  of  Upton,  co.  Nottingham, 
late  of  Thomas  de  la  Laund,  knight,  and  forfeited  to  the  king  by  his 
rebellion,  the  manors  or  lordships  of  Loughton,  Ingolsby,  Colston  Basset, 
Caworth,  Cortlyngstok  and  Remston,  co.  Nottingham,  late  of  John 
Trulhale  and  forfeited  to  the  king  by  ids  rebellion,  and  the  manor  or 
lordsbip  of  Colsond  Darey,  co.  Essex,  late  of  John  Darcy  and  forfeited  to 
the  king  by  his  rebellion,  with  all  knights'  fees,  advowson.'^,  courts  lect, 
views  of  frank-pledge,  rights,  members,  liamlots,  meadows,  feedings, 
pastures,  fisheries,  moors,  marshc^,  turbaries,  forests,  chaces,  parks,  woods, 
warrens,  hundreds,  fairs,  markets,  liberties,  franchises,  free  customg,  wards, 
marriages,  escheats  and  services  of  tenants.  By  p.g. 

Grant  to  John  Fogge,  esquire,  and  his  heirs  of  the  manors  of  Dane  in 
the  hundred  of  Bocton  and  Toneford  in  the  hundred  of  Weslgate,  co.  Kent, 
to  hold  from  1  December,  1  Edward  IV,  by  as  many  knights'  fees  and  as 
many  other  rents  and  services  as  tlicy  were  hekl  by  before  4  March, 
1  Edward  IV.  with  all  issues  from  the  said  1  Decembei'.  By  p.s. 

Grant  for  life  to  Thomas  Sayntlegor,  esquire  of  the  body,  of  the  custody 
of  the  king's  castlo  of  ilouccstre,  co.  Kent,  and  all  issues  of  tho  castle 


298 


CALENDAR  OF  PATENT  ROLLS. 


1471.  Membrane  22 — cont. 

payable  by  divers  free  tenants  there  at  the  feast  of  St.  Andrew  and  plots, 
gardens,  herbage,  fruits  and  other  commodities  within  the  castle,  in  lieu  of 
a  grant  of  the  custody  to  John  Fogge,  kuight,  then  esquire,  by  letters 
patent  dated  14  April,  1  Edward  TV.  surrendered.  By  p.s. 

Oct.  20.  General  pardon  to  Michael  Skylling  of  the  county  of  Southampton  of  all 
Westmiuster.  offences  committed  by  him  before  6  September  last.  By  p.s. 

Oct.  7.         Licence  for  the  king's  kinsman  Henry,  duke  of  Buckingham,  to  enter 
Westminster,  freely  into  all  manors,  lordships,  lands,  rents  and  services  which  should 
descend  to  him  by  reason  of  the  death  of  his  uncle  Sir  Henry  Stafford  of 
Bokyngham,  without  rendering  anything  to  the  king  save  homage,  fealty 
and  other  due  services.  By  p.s. 

1472. 

Jan.  18.        Appointment,  until  16  July  next,  of  Robert  Gregory,  yeoman  of  the 
Westminster,  avenary  of  the  household,  to  take  hay,  oats,  horse  bread  and  litter  and 
other  things  pertaining  to  the  office  of  the  avenary  and  carriage  for  the 
same.  By  bill  of  the  steward  of  the  household. 

The  like  of  the  following  : — 
John  Russell. 
John  Jenyus. 
Thomas  Rosse. 

Jan.  20.  The  like  of  Thomas  Markham,  esquire,  to  take  salt  and  fresh-water  fish 
Westminster,  for  the  expenses  of  the  household  and  carriage  for  the  same. 

By  bill  of  the  steward  of  the  household. 


1471.  Membrane  21. 

Dec.  4.  Whereas  lately  in  the  absence  of  the  king  without  the  realm  on  the  part  of 
Westminster,  the  prior  and  convent  of  the  monastery  of  St.  Benet,  Hulme,  co.  Norfolk,  it 
was  shown  to  Henry  VI.  that  the  monastery  was  void  by  the  resignation  of 
John  Keving,  late  abbot,  and  the  said  late  king  granted  licence  to  them  to  elect 
an  abbot  and  they  accordingly  elected  Thomas  Pakefeld,  professor  of  theology, 
cellarer  of  the  monastery,  and  the  said  late  king  gave  his  assent  and  Walter, 
bishop  of  Norwich,  confirmed  the  election  and  the  said  late  king  restored 
the  temporalities  to  the  abbot,  the  king  nevertheless  pardons  the  trespasses 
committed  in  this  and  confirms  the  estate  of  the  abbot  and  restores  the 
temporalities  to  him,  By  p.s. 

Mandate  in  pursuance  to  the  escheator  in  the  counties  of  Norfolk  and 
Suffolk. 

Writ  de  intendendo  in  pursuance  to  the  tenants. 

Dec.  5.  Grant  to  the  king's  kinsman  Thomas,  cai'dinal  archbishop  of  Canterbury, 
Westminster,  for  a  certain  sum  of  money  paid  by  him  to  the  king,  of  the  custody  of  all 
manors,  lands,  rents,  services  and  other  hereditaments  late  of  Robert 
Watton,  tenant  in  chief,  in  the  county  of  Kent  during  the  minority 
of  Katharine  his  daughter  and  heir  and  the  custody  and  marriage  of  t],e 
latter  without  disparagement  and  so  from  heir  to  heir.  By  p.s. 

Dec.  20.  Grant  to  Walter  Blount,  knight,  lord  Montjoye,  for  the  relief  of  the 
^Westminster,  children  of  William  Blount  his  sou  and  heir  apparent,  who  persevered  in 
the  king's  service  beyond  the  sea  and  lately  at  Barnet  under  the  king's 
standard  manfully  exposed  himself  to  battle  for  the  king's  right  and  there 
was  grievously  wounded  so  that  he  died,  of  the  custody  of  all  castles, 
lordsiiips,  manors,  lands,  rent.<j,  services,  reversions  and  possessions  with 
knights'  fees  and  advowsons  late  of  Thomas  Cobham,  knight,  tenant 
in  chief,  during  the  minority  of  Anne  his  daughter  and  heiress  and 
the  custody  and  marriage  of  the  latter  without  disparagement  and  so  from 
heir  to  heir.  By  p.s. 


11  EDWARD  IV.— Part  II. 


299 


1471.  Membrane  21 — cont. 

Vacated  and  cancelled,  because  John  Blount  and  James  Blount, 
esquires,  executors  of  the  will  of.  the  said  Walter,  surrendered  the  letters 
to  Williani  Huse,  attorney  of  the  king,  in  Chancery^  as  avpears  in  the 
schedule  annexed. 


Schedule. 

Bill  made  on  1  February,  14  Edward  IV.  witnessing  that  the  said  John 
and  James  have  delivered  the  letters  on  that  day  to  the  said  "William  Hiisc 
to  be  cancelled  according  to  an  appointment  made  between  them  and 
Anue,  duchess  of  Buckingham.  English. 


Membrane  21 — cont. 


Aug.  16. 

Westminster. 


1472. 

Jan.  8. 
"W  estmiuster. 

1471. 

Dec.  .30. 

Westminster. 

1472. 

Jan,  12. 

Westminster. 


1471. 

Aug.  16. 

Westminster. 


Grant  to  Thomas  Overay,  clerk,  and  John  Hardyng,  clerk,  of  the 
presentation  to  the  parish  church  of  Sutton  on  Derwent,  in  the  diocese  of 
York,  void  by  the  death  of  Thomas  Bellyngham,  last  rector. 
Vacated  because  othenvise  below. 

General  pardon  to  Galeas  do  Lune  late  of  the  town  of  Westminster,  co. 
Middlesex,  '  gentilman,'  alias  esquire,  of  all  offences  committed  by  him 
before  4  January.  By  p.s. 

Grant  to  Thomas  Aleinson,  born  in  Scotland,  of  letters  of  denization. 

By  p.s. 

Commission  to  William  Dobson,  master  of  a  ship  called  la  Marye  Peerc, 
to  take  mariners  for  the  said  ship,  which  the  king  has  ordered  to  go  to  sea 
against  his  enemies.  By  K. 

The  like  to  the  following  : — 

Nicholas  Ilaychford,  master  of  a  ship  called  la  Marye  Floure. 

Robert  Morys,  master  of  a  ship  called  Ic  Rose. 

Walter  Liyght,  master  of  a  ship  called  le  Kervele  of  John  Blownt. 

Grant  to  Thomas  Overay,  clerk,  and  William  Nykke,  clerk,  of  the 
presentation  to  the  parish  cliurch  of  Sutton  on  Derwent,  in  the  diocese  of 
York,  void  by  the  death  of  Thomas  Bellyngham,  last  rector. 


Membrane  20. 


Nov.  3. 

Wostiiiiiifitor. 


Nov.  3. 

Westminster. 

1472. 

Feb.  12. 
Westminster, 


Gcner.al  pardon  to  Walter  Towko  «/<as  Touke,  '  gentilman,' one  of  tho 
inhabitants  of  the  hundred  of  Bewesbarowe,  co.  Kent,  who  appeared  l)cfore 
John  Dynham  of  Dynhani,  knight,  John  Foggc,  knight,  William  Notynij ham 
and  Nicholas  Stathum,  justices  appointed  by  letters  patent  to  enquire  i  nto 
the  rebellions  in  the  counties  of  Surrey  and  Kent,  and  made  ransom  to  the 
king,  of  all  offences  committed  by  him  before  7  July  last.  By  K. 

The  like  to  the  following  : — 

Thomas  Bylsby  alias  Bylby  of  iSouthfiefe,  co.  Kent,  *  taillour,'  late  one 
of  the  inhabitants  of  the  hundred  of  Axstan,  co.  Kent.  By  K. 

General  pardon  to  John  Iluuden,  bishop  of  Lland.aff,  of  all  offences 
committed  by  him  before  8  February.    \^Fa'dcra.']  By  p.s. 


300 


CALENDAR  OF  PATENT  ROLLS. 


Membrane  19. 

Dec.  9.  [General  pardon  as  below  to  the  following  : — ] 
■Westminster.  Thomas  Willok,  *  yoman,'  late  one  of  the  inhabitants  of  the  hundred  of 
Wy,  CO.  Kent,  and  all  other  persons  now  or  lately  inhabiting  that 
hundred  who  appeared  before  Thomas  Bourgchier,  knight,  John 
Dynham  of  Dynham,  knight,  John  Fogge,  knight,  William  Notynham 
and  Nicholas  Stathum,  justices  appointed  in  the  counties  of  Kent 
and  Surrey  etc.  By  K. 

Richard  Tille,  '  yoman,'  late  one  of  the  inhabitants  of  the  hundred  of 
Strete,  co.  Kent,  By  K. 

Humphrey  Simon  a  Court  late  of  Petham,  co.  Kent,  '  yoman,'  late  one 
of  the  inhabitants  of  the  hundred  of  Petham,  co.  Kent. 

William  Harlakenden,  '  geutilman,'  late  one  of  the  inhabitants  of  the 
hundred  of  Blakborne,  co.  Kent.  By  K. 

Richard  Lynter,  '  yoman,'  late  one  of  the  iuhabitants  of  the  hundred 
of  Worthe,  co.  Kent.  By  K. 

Henry  Posshe,  '  husbondman,'  late  one  of  the  inhabitants  of  the 
hundred  of  Bewysbergh,  co.  Kent.  By  K. 

George  Knoldane,  '  husbondman,'  late  one  of  the  iuhabitants  of  the 
hundred  of  Hamme,  co.  Kent.  By  K. 

Thomas  Ildergate,  '  gentilman,'  late  one  of  the  inhabitants  of  the 
hundred  of  Kynghamford,  co.  Kent.  By  K. 

Stephen  Frevylle,  'yoman,'  late  one  of  the  inhabitants  of  the  hundred 

of  Cornyloo,  co.  Kent. 
Thomas  Richard,  *  yoman,'  late  one  of  the  inhabitants  of  the  hundred 

of  Langport,  co.  Kent. 
Christopher  Elyndeu,  '  gentylman,'  late  one  of  the  iuhabitants  of  the 

hundred  of  Felbergh,  co.  Kent. 
John    Holynden,   '  husbondman,'    late   one   of  the  iuhabitants  of 

the  hundred  of  Stowtyng,  co.  Kent. 
Alexander  Payntour,  '  husbondman,'  late  one  of  the  inhabitants  of  the 

hundred  of  Brenchesle,  co.  Kent. 
Laurence  Marche,  'yoman,'  late  one  of  the  iuhabitants  of  the  hundred 

of  Hean,  co.  Kent. 
John  Cobbes, '  gentilman,'  late  one  of  the  inhabitants  of  the  hundred  of 

Newchirche,  co.  Kent. 

Nov.  3.  John  Bysshop,  'yoman,'  late  one  of  the  inhabitants  of  the  lowey  of 

Westmiuster.  Tunbrigge,  and  all  other  persons  now  or  lately  inhabiting  that  lowey 

and  the  township  of  Bradstede,  parcel  thereof.  By  K. 

John  Bolte  of  Penseherst,  '  husbondman,'  late  one  of  the  inhabitants 
of  the  hundred  of  Wachelyugstone,  co.  Kent.  By  K. 

Richard  atte  Welle,  '  husboudman,'  late  one  of  the  inhabitants  of  the 

hundred  of  Westram,  co.  Kent. 
Thomas  Wykhire, '  yoman,'  late  one  of  the  inhabitants  of  the  township 

of  Dcrteford,  co.  Kent. 
Thomas  Pympe,  esquire,  late  one  of  the  inhabitants  of  the  hundred  of 

Hoo,  CO.  Kent. 

John  Lowe,  'gentilman,'  late  one  of  the  iuhabitants  of  the  hundred  of 

Shamell,  co.  Kent. 
Peter  Westbroke,  '  gentilman,'  late  one  of  the  iuhabitants  of  the 

hundred  of  Coddesheth,  co.  Kent. 
John  Bowleo,  '  gentilman,'  late  one  of  the  inhabitants  of  the  hundred 

of  Larkefeld,  co.  lient. 


1 1  EDWARD  IV.— Part  II. 


301 


1471. 


Dec.  9. 

[W'estiuinster.] 


Dec.  9. 
Westminster. 


Membrane  19 — cont. 
John  Batell,  late  one  of  the  inhabitants  of  the  hundred  of  Preston,  co. 
Kent. 

John  Grenested,  '  gcutibnan,'  lute  one  of  the  inhabitants  of  the 

hundred  of  Chatham  and  Gelynghain,  co.  Kent. 
Ilop;er  Lychefeld,  '  gentilman,'  late  one  of  the  inhabitants  of  the 

hundred  of  Eastry,  co.  Kent. 
Stephen  Borne,  '  husbondman,'  late  one  of  the  inhabitants  of  the 

hundred  of  Bernefylde,  co.  Kent. 
John  Chowne,  late  one  of  the  inhabitants  of  the  hundred  of  Wroteham, 

CO.  Kent. 

John  Draper,  '  yoman,'  late  one  of  the  inhabitants  of  the  hundred  of 

Lytle  and  Lysyns,  co.  Kent. 
William  Pygot,  'husbondman,'  late  one  of  the  inhabitants  of  the 

hundred  of  Somerden,  co.  Kent. 
Robert  Knyglit,  '  rnarcer,' late  one  of  the  inhabitants  of  the  town  of 

Queueborough,  co.  Kent. 
Roger  Shelley,  '  gentilman,'  late  one  of  the  inhabitants  of  the  hundred 

of  Rokesley,  co.  Kent. 

John  Rowe,  '  gentilmfin,'  late  one  of  the  inhabitants  of  the  hundred  of 

Maideston,  co.  Kent, 
lleiiry  Stone,  'yoman,'  late  one  of  the  inhabitants  of  the  hundred  of 

St.  Martin,  co.  Kent, 
Richard  Sharpo,  'yoman,'  one  of  the  inliabitauts  of  the  hundred  of 

Mcrden,  co.  Kent. 
Jolm  [lenley,  'yoman,'  late  one  of  the  inhabitauls  of  the  hundred  of 

Cranebroke,  co.  Kent. 
Robert  Dryland,  'gentilman,'  late  one  of  the  inhabitants  of  tiic 

hundred  of  Boughton,  co.  Kent, 
Thomas  Godfray,  'yoman,'  late  one  of  the  inhabitants  of  the  hundred 

of  Byrehoholt,  co.  Kent.  , 
James  SecUegh,  '  husbondman,'  late  one  of  the  inhabitants  of  Iho 

hundred  of  Oxeuey,  co.  Kent. 
Thomas  Bcdyll,  late  one  of  the  inhabitants  of  the  hundred  of  Bromley 

and  Bekynliam,  co.  Kent. 


Membrane  18. 

Nov.  3.  General  pardon  to  William  Brokeman  late  of  tlio  town  of  As.shctcsford, 
AVestniinstcr.  co.  Kent,  'gentilman,'  late  ore  of  tlie  inhabitanls  of  the  same  hundred,  luul 
all  other  persons  now  and  lately  inhabiting  the  same  hundred  who iipix'ared 
before  Thomas  JJourgchicr,  knight,  John  Dynham  of  Dyidiam,  kniglit,  John 
Fogge,knight,  William  Notynghamand  Nicholas  Stathum, justices a|'pointcd 
by  letters  patent  to  encpiire  into  the  rebellions  in  the  counties  of  Kent  and 
Surrey,  and  made  fine  and  ransom  to  the  king,  of  all  olFeuccs  committed 
by  them  before  7  July  last.  By  K. 

The  like  to  the  following  for  the  cilics,  towns,  and  hundreds  sjjocified  : — 
William  Sellowc,  one  of  the  inhabitants  ol'tlic  cily  of  Canterbury. 
Thomas  Frognale,  'gentilman,'  late  one  of  the  inhabitants  of  the 

hundred  of  Feversham,  co.  Kent. 
John  Brode  late  of  Mersham  in  the  hundr(>d  of  Longbregge,  co.  Kent, 

'gentilman,'  late  one  of  the  inhabitants  of  that  hundred. 
John  Godueston  of  Godneslon  by  Wyngliam  in  the  hundred  of 

Wyngham,  co.  Kent,  '  gentilman.'  late  one  of  the  inhabitants  of  that 

hundred. 


302 

1471. 


CALENDAR  OF  PATENT  EOLLS. 


Membrane  18 — cont. 

Thomas  Lovelas,  '  gentilmau,'  late  one  of  the  inhabitants  of  the 

hundred  of  Dowuhamford,  co.  Kent. 
John  Isaak,  esquire,  late  one  of  the  inhabitants  of  the  hundred  of 

Bregge,  co.  Kent. 

Thomas  Looneryk  of  Heme  in  the  Imndred  of  Bleugate,  co.  Kent, 

esquire,  late  one  of  the  inhabitants  of  that  hundred. 
William  Appoldrefeld,  '  gentilman,'  late  one  of  the  inhabitants  of  the 

hundred  of  Teueham,  co.  Kent. 
Richard  Dygges,  <  gentilman,'  late  one  of  the  inhabitants  of  the 

Imndred  of  Middelton  alias  Mylton,  co.  Kent. 
Simon  Goderd  late  of  Feyrefeld  in  the  hundred  of  Alowesbregge, 

CO.  Kent,  'yoman,'  late  one  of  the  inhabitants  of  that  hundred. 
John  Swayn  late  of  Westgatestrete  by  Canterbury  in  the  hundred  of 

Westgate,  co.  Kent,  *  yoman,'  late  one  of  the  inhabitants  of  that 

hundred. 

John  Roper  late  of  Swaleehyne  in  the  hundred  of  Whitstaple,  co.  Kent, 
esquire,  late  one  of  the  inhabitants  of  that  hundred. 

Thomas  Seynt  Nicholas  of  the  parish  of  Mynster  in  the  Isle  of 
Thanet  in  the  hundred  of  Ryngeslowe,  co.  Kent,  esquire,  late  one 
of  the  inhabitants  of  that  hundred. 

John  Holneherst  late  of  Betherisden  in  the  hundred  of  Charte, 
CO.  Kent,  '  yoman,'  late  one  of  the  inhabitants  of  that  hundred. 

Richard  Norton,  'yoman,'  late  one  of  the  inhabitants  of  the  hundred 
of  Caleb  ill,  co.  Kent. 

John  Turke,  *  yoman,'  late  one  of  the  inhabitants  of  the  hundred  of 
Lytelfeld,  co.  Kent. 

John  Gybbes,  '  gentilman,'  late  one  of  the  inhabitants  of  the  hundred 
of  Folkestone,  co.  Kent. 

Thomas  Wombewell,  '  gentilman,'  late  one  of  the  inhabitants  of  the 
hundred  of  Toltyngtrowe,  co.  Kent. 

William  Pellicau,  '  gentilman,'  late  one  of  the  inhabitants  of  the 
township  of  Westmallyng,  co.  Kent. 

John  Baldewyn,  '  yoman,'  late  one  of  the  inhabitants  of  the  hundred 
of  Twyford,  co.  Kent. 

William  Swan  of  Suthflete,  co.  Kent,  the  elder,  '  gentilman,'  late  one 
of  the  inhabitants  of  the  hundred  of  Axstan,  co.  Kent. 

William  Brokhill,  '  gentilman,'  late  one  of  the  inhabitants  of  the 
hundred  of  Ayhorne,  co.  Kent. 

John  Hadde, '  gentilman,'  late  one  of  the  inhabitants  of  the  hundred 
and  city  of  Rouchestre,  co.  Kent. 

Thomas  Hextall,  '  gentilman,'  late  one  of  the  inhabitants  of  the  town 
of  Dover,  co.  Kent,  within  the  Cinque  Ports  in  the  counties  of  Kent 
and  Sussex,  and  all  other  persons  now  or  lately  inhabiting  the  same 
town  who  appeared  before  Thomas  Bourghchier,  knight,  John 
Dynham  of  Dynham,  knight,  John  Fogge,  knight,  Thomas 
Echyngham,  knight,  William  Notynghara,  Nicholas  Stathum  and 
Roger  Brent,  justices  appointed  as  above  within  the  said  Cinque 
Ports  and  their  members.  By  K. 

John  Harwardyng,  late  one  of  the  inhabitants  of  the  town  of  Ten- 

derden,  co.  Kent,  within  the  Cinque  Ports. 
Vacated  because  below. 
Richard  Martyn,  '  gentilman,'  late  one  of  the  inhabitants  of  the  town 

of  Feversham,  co.  Kent. 
Thomas  Stace,  late  one  of  the  inhabitants  of  the  town  of  Hethe, 

CO.  Kent,  within  the  Cinque  Ports. 


J 1  EDWARD  IV.— Part  II. 


303 


1471.  Membrane  18 — cont. 

Christopher  Beverley,  '  gentilman,'  late  one  of  the  inhabitants  of  the 

town  of  Fordwich,  co.  Kent,  -within  the  Cinque  Ports. 
Thomas  Caxton,  late  one  of  the  inhabitants  of  the  town  of  Lydde, 

CO.  Kent,  witliin  the  Cinque  Ports. 
Thomas  Kenett,  late  one  of  the  inhabitants  of  the  town  of  Folston, 

CO.  Kent,  within  the  Cinque  Ports. 
Robert  Scarce,  late  one  of  the  inhabitants  of  the  town  of  Rumney, 

CO.  Kent,  within  the  Cinque  Ports. 

Dec.  10.  Thomas  Pette,  late  one  of  the  inhabitants  of  the  town  and  hundred  of 

Westminster.  Tcntcrden,  within  the  Cinque  Ports. 

Nov.  .3.  Ralph  Rycher,  late  one  of  the  inhabitanis  of  tlie  towns  and  parish 

Wcstmmstcr.  of  Walmer  and  Dele,  co.  Kent,  within  the  Cinque  Ports. 

William  Durant,  late  one  of  the  inhabitanis  of  the  town  and  parish  of 

Bekisbournc,  co.  Kent,  within  the  Cinque  Ports. 
John  Sutton,  late  one  of  the  inhabitants  of  the  town  of  Rye,  co. 

Sussex,  within  the  Cinque  Ports. 
John  Goldyng,  late  one  of  the  inhabitants  of  the  town  of  Hastyngcs, 

CO.  Sussex,  within  the  Cinque  Ports. 
Henry  Newcrk,  late  one  of  the  inhabitants  of  the  hundred  of  lilakhcth, 

CO.  Kent.  By  K. 


Membrane  17. 

Nov.  13.  General  pardon  to  William  Cheney  alias  Cheynee  of  the  Isle  of 
Westminster.  Shepey,  esquire,  of  all  offences  committed  by  him  before  5  October  last. 

By  p.s, 

Nov.  15.       Grant  to  the  king's  clerk  Master  John  Seymour  of  the  prebend  or 
Westminster,  canonry  within  the  king's  free  chapel  of  St.  George  and  St.  Mary  witliin 
the  castle  of  Wyndesore,  void  by  the  resignation  of  Master  William 
Duddeley.  By  K. 

Mandate  in  pursuance  to  the  dean  or  warden  of  the  said  chapel. 

Nov.  22.       Grant  for  life  to  Mark  Symondson,  master  of  a  ship  called  Ic  Antomj  of 
Westminster.  Camfeer  in  Zeland,  in  which  the  king  was  brought  from  those  parts  to 
England,  of  20/.  yearly  at  the  receipt  of  the  Exche{iuer.  By  p.s. 

Doc.  4.  General  pardon  to  Thomas  Fulford  of  Fulford,  co.  Devon,  knight,  of  all 
Westminster,  olfences  committed  by  him  before  1  December.  By  p.s. 

Nov.  1.5.        Gi'ant  for  life  to  the  king's  servant  Roger  Horsley,  one  of  the  ycomon 
Westminster,  of  the  king's  chamber,  for  his  good  service  beyond  the  seas  and  within 
the  realm,  of  tlio  olRce  of  one  of  the  four  foresters  of  lugleswode,  co. 
Cumberland,  with  the  accustomed  fees,  in  the  same  manner  as  William 
Lother,  rebel,  had.  By  p.s. 

rluly  12.  The  like  to  Richard  Wagotte,  servant  of  the  duchess  of  Exeter,  of  the 
Wcsiminster.  office  of  bailiff  of  Opposham,  co.  Devon,  with  the  accustomed  fees.    By  p.s. 

Nov.  20.       Pi'otection  with  clause  volumus,  for  one  year,  for  John  Roller,  citizen 
Wc.-itininsier.    jind  grocer  of  London,  alias  of  Southpetherton,  co.  Somerset,  '  gentilman,' 
staying  on  the  king's  service  in  the  company  of  John  Thriske,  treasurer  and 
victualler  of  the  town  of  Calais  and  the  marches  there,  on  the  safe-custody, 
defence  and  victualling  of  the  same.  By  bill  of  p.s. 

Due.  13.        General  pardon  to  William  Berkeley  of  Weley,  co.  Worcester,  alias 
Westminster.  William  Barkeley  late  of  Stoke,  co.  Gloucester,  esquire,  of  all  olienccs 
committed  by  him  before  25  November  last.  By  p.s. 

1472. 

Jan.  20.  General  pardon  to  William,  lord  of  Berkeley,  co.  Gloucester,  knight,  of 
Westminster,  all  ofTeuces  committed  by  him  before  14  January.  By  p.s. 


304 


CALENDAR  OF  PATENT  ROLLS. 


1472. 
Feb.  19. 

Westminster. 


Feb  25. 
Wcstmiustcr. 


Membrane  17 — cont. 
Licence  for  the  abbot  of  the  church  of  St.  Mary,  Fourneis,  co.  Lancaster, 

of  the  next  ten  years 


and 


to  buy  200  quarters  of  wheat  in  Ireland  in  each 
ship  them  to  England  after  due  payment  of  the  customs  and  subsidies. 

By  p.s. 

Grant  for  life  to  John  Lloydy  of  Ludlowe,  in  recompense  of  his  expenses 
iu  the  king's  service,  of  all  lands  in  Leton,  co.  Salop,  late  of  Roger 
Burlctou  with  the  reversion  of  the  part  of  tlie  said  lands  which  Alice  late 
Iho  wife  of  William  Burleton  holds  for  life,  not  exceeding  the  yearly 
value  of  33*.  4c?.  and  forfeited  to  the  king  by  reason  of  divers  felonies. 

By  p.s. 


1471.  Membrane  16. 

Nov.  16.  General  pardon  to  James  Lee  late  of  Aston  by  Stone,  co.  Stafford, 
Westminster,   knight,  late  esquire,  of  all  offences  committed  by  him  before  13  November. 

By  p.s. 

Nov.  22.  General  pardon  to  John  Bonevile  alias  Bonvill  of  Shute,  co.  Devon, 
Westminster,  esquire.  By  p.s. 

Nov.  18.        General  pardon  to  Thomas  Neville,  king's  clerk,  parson  of  the  churcli  of 
Westminster.  Braunspath  in  the  bishopric  of  Durham,  of  all  offences  committed  by 
him  before  27  August,  10  Edward  IV.  By  p.s. 

Nov.  5.        General  pardon  to  George  Bothe,  esquire,  alias  of  Dunham  Mascy, 
Westminster,  co.  Chester,  '  gentilman,' a/iffs  of  Altryngham,  co.  Chester,  of  all  offences 
committed  by  him  before  23  {sic)  November.  By  p.s. 

Nov.  23.  Grant  in  frank  almoin  to  Robert,  the  prior,  and  the  convent  of  the  house 
Westminster,  of  the  Assumption  of  St.  Mary,  Mountgrace,  of  the  Carthusian  ordei',  in 
the  diocese  of  York,  of  the  manor  or  alien  priory  of  Begger,  co.  York,  with 
all  lands,  rents,  pensions,  portions,  possessions,  emoluments,  spiritualities 
and  temporalities,  that  they  may  pray  for  the  good  estate  of  the  king  and 
for  his  soul  after  death  and  for  the  souls  of  the  king's  father  Richard,  late 
duke  of  York,  and  the  king's  brothers  and  sisters,  and  because  they  undertake 
to  celebrate  three  masses  daily  within  their  house,  to  wit  of  St.  Mary,  the 
Holy  Trinity  and  St.  Erasnuis  the  Bishop.  By  p.s. 

Oct.  20.        Presentation  of  John  Clidro  to  the  parish  church  of  Llarnaber  by  Ebormo 
Westminster,  iu  North  Wales,  in  the  diocese  of  Bangor,  void  by  the  resignation  of  Hugh 
Morgan. 

Nov.  5.        General  pardon  to  Richard  Jouetes  late  of  Feckyngham,  co.  Woi  ccster, 
Westminster.  '  gentilman,'  alias  late  of  Northgrove,  co.  Worcester,  of  all  offences  committed 
by  him  before  3  October  last.  By  p.s. 

Nov.  28.  Release,  at  the  supplication  of  the  king's  kinsman  John,  earl  of 
Westminster.  Shrewsbury,  kinsman  and  heir  of  Ralph  Straunge,  original  founder  of  the 
priory  or  hospital  of  St.  John  Baptist,  Bruggenorth,  co.  Salop,  to  Robert, 
abbot  of  the  monastery  of  St.  Mary,  Lilleshill,  co.  Salop,  and  tlie  convent 
of  that  place,  and  their  successors,  of  all  right  and  chum  of  the  king  to  the 
said  hosjjital  and  tlie  lands  pertaining  to  it,  and  grant  to  them  of  those 
lands,  and  pardon  to  them  of  all  alienations  and  perquisitions  in  mortmain 
of  the  said  hospital  and  lands  without  licence,  notwiilistanding  that  the 
hospital  is  of  the  king's  gift  and  the  appointment  of  the  prior,  master  or 
warden  belongs  to  the  king,  that  they  may  pray  for  the  good  estate  of  the 
king  and  his  consort  Elizabeth,  queen  of  England,  and  for  their  souls  after 
death  and  the  souls  of  the  said  founder  and  his  relatives  and  heirs,  and  do 
other  works  of  piety  according  to  the  intention  of  the  founder.  By  jj.s. 

Sept.  3.  General  pardon  to  Thomas  Trigot  late  of  Kirkeby,  co.  York,  '  gentilman,' 
Westminster,  of  all  offences  committed  by  him  before  11  August  last.  By  p.s. 


11  EDWARD  IV.— Part  II. 


305 


1471. 

Dec.  14. 

Westminster. 


Dec.  !7. 

\\'estmiiister. 

Dee.  18. 

Wcstmiustcr. 

Dec.  3. 

M'csfminster. 


Membrane  16 — cont. 

Grant  for  life  to  the  king's  servant  John  Biggc,  esquire,  for  bis  good 
service  beyond  the  seas  and  in  divers  conflicts  within  the  realm,  of  the 
office  of  verger  {virgebajiili)  in  the  town  of  Sandwich  witli  the  custody  of 
the  castle  there  and  the  meadows  belonging  to  it,  which  office  needs  actual 
exercise  and  is  in  the  king's  hands  by  the  rebellion  of  Thomas  Bodyn,  with 
the  accustomed  fees.  By  p.s.  [3377.] 

General  pardon  to  William  Joseph  late  of  London,  esquire,  alias 
'  gentilman,'  of  all  offences  committed  by  him  before  9  July  last.      By  p.s. 

Presentation  of  William  Trowe,  chaplain,  to  the  parish  church  of 
CiiyltoD  Cantelope,  in  the  diocese  of  Batii  and  Wells,  void  by  the  rc.'iig- 
nation  of  John  Buron. 

Grant  for  life  to  the  king's  servant  John  Baret,  clerk  of  the  king's 
lutclien,  of  the  custody  of  tlie  king'o  castle  of  Salisbury,  co.  Wilts,  witli 
tlie  accustomed  wages  and  fees  as  allowed  in  the  time  of  Edward  111.  and 
all  other  profits  belonging  to  the  custody.  By  p.s. 


Membrane  15. 

Oct.  24.  Although  by  an  inquisition  taken  at  Kyngeslon  on  Hull  on  27  Sep- 
Wcstininstcr.  tembcr  before  .John  Typlot,  then  one  of  the  coroners  within  the  town  and 
precinet  of  Kyngeston  on  Hull,  on  tlu;  body  of  John  Byrkyu  late  of 
Kyngeston, '  yonian,' it  was  found  that  Williaiu  Carter  of  York,  '  merchant,' 
on  25  September  at  Kyngeston  on  Hull  about  the  tenth  hour  after  noon 
assaulted  tlie  said  John  and  struck  liim  in  the  belly  with  a  dagger  of  liie  value 
of  \Gd.  and  killed  him,  the  king  nevertheless  jjardons  to  the  said  William 
the  said  felony  and  all  consequent  forfeitures  of  his  goods.  By  p.s. 

Nov.  2.        General  pardon  to  John  Batyn  of  Frome  in  Selwodo,  co.  Somer.set, 
Westminster.  *  yoman,'  alias  John  Osbarnc,  '  clothmakcr,'  of  all  offences  committed  by 
him  before  24  October  kst.  By  p.s. 

July  17.  Grant  for  life  to  Richard  Forde,  one  of  the  yeomon  of  tlie  crown,  of  Gd, 
"Westminster,  daily  for  bis  fee  from  the  issues  of  the  county  of  Southampton.         By  p.s. 

Nov.  4.  Grant  for  life  to  Margaret  late  the  "wife  of  Thomas  Talbot, 
Westminster,  viscount  Lisle,  of  the  lordship  and  manor  of  Payncswyk,  co.  Gloucester, 
and  the  manors  of  Norton  Beauchamp  and  Lympy.sliam  with  their 
members  in  the  counties  of  Somerset  and  Dorset,  parcel  of  the  manors 
:nnl  lands  of  the  said  viscount,  to  hold  in  dower  with  knights'  fees,  advow- 
sons,  courts  leet,  views  of  frank-pledge  and  other  liberties.  By  p.s. 

Nov.  5.        Appointment,  during  pleasure,  of  Wiiliam  Pokeryng  as  ganger  in  the 
Westminster,  port  of  Kyngeston  on  Hull  and  ports  and  places  adjacint,  receiving  the 
accustomed  fees.  By  bill  of  the  treasurer. 

1472. 

Jan.  24.        Commission  to  Jolin  Cheyne,  esquire  of  the  body,  of  full  power  of 
Wcstminbter.  governance  of  an  armed  force  which  the  king  is  sending  to  sea  against  his 
enemies. 

1471. 

July  15.  Appointment  for  life  of  the  king's  servitor  John  Profoot  as  tlic  king's 
Wcbiiiuii&ler.  f^ccretary  in  the  French  tongue  and  one  of  the  king's  notaries  and  secretaries 
of  France,  and  grant  to  him  for  life  of  20/.  yearly  froni  20  August, 
7  I'-dward  IV.  from  the  customs  and  subsidies  in  the  port  of  Suthampton 
with  all  other  accustomed  profit.^,  in  the  .';anie  manner  as  Master  Gcrvase, 
deceased  ;  in  lieu  of  a  like  appointment  and  grant  hy  letters  patent  dated  the 
said  20  August  (see  p.  48),  surrendered.  By  p.s. 

y  96186.  U 


30G  CALENDAR  OF  PATENT  ROLLS. 


1472.  Membi'ane  15 — cont. 

Feb.  20.  Jyiceuce  for  Margaret  late  the  wife  of  Robert,  lord  Hungerford, 
Westminster,  knight,  John  Cheyne  of  Pynne,  esquire,  and  John  Mcrvyn,  esquire,  to 
found  an  almshouse  of  one  chaplain,  twelve  poor  men  and  one  woman, 
whereof  the  chaplain  shall  be  warden,  at  Heightesbury,  co.  Wilts,  to  celebrate 
divine  service  and  other  prayers  daily  in  the  parish  church  of  Heightesbury 
for  the  good  estate  of  the  king,  his  consort  Elizabeth,  queen  of  England, 
Kichivrd  Beauchamp,  bishop  of  Salisbury,  the  saicl  iMargaret,  John  and  John 
and  Master  James  Goldwell,  prothonotary  apostolic,  dean  of  the  cathedral 
church  of  St.  Mary,  Salisbury,  and  for  their  souls  after  death  and  the  souls 
of  the  said  Robert  and  his  parents  Walter  Hungerford,  late  lord  Hunger- 
lord,  and  Katharine  his  wife,  and  William,  lato  lord  of  Botreaux,  and 
Elizabeth  his  wife,  parents  of  the  said  Margaret,  and  Gregory  Westby, 
esquire,  and  do  other  things  according  to  their  ordinance,  and  for  them  to 
grant  in  frank  almoin  to  the  eaid  warden,  poor  men  and  women  the  manors 
of  Cheverell  Burnell  and  Cheverell  Hales  alias  Great  Cheverell,  co.  Wilts, 
and  two  messuages  in  Heightesbury  which  Walter  Hungerford,  late  lord 
Hungerford,  acquired  fi'om  John  at  Borgh,  esquire,  and  20  cartloads  of 
wood  for  fuel  in  the  wood  of  Southlegh,  co.  Wilts,  the  advowson  of  the 
church  of  Great  Cheverell  excepted.  [Monasticon,  vol.  vii.,  p.  725.] 

By  p.s.  and  for  120  marks  paid  in  the  hanaper. 

Feb.  15.        Gr.ant  to  the  king's  clerk  Master  John  Gunthorp,  the  king's  almoner, 
Westmiuster.  of  the  prebend  and  canonry  within  the  king's  ft'ee  chapel  of  St.  Stephen 
within  the  palace  of  Westminster  void  by  the  death  of  Thomas  Boleyn. 

■By  K. 

Mandate  in  pursuance  to  the  dean  and  chapter. 

147X,  Membrane  14. 

Nov.  23.  Grant  to  Cornelius  Henrykson,  born  in  the  town  of  Audewarp  in 
Westminster.  Brabant,  and  his  children  of  letters  of  denization.  By  p.s. 

Tli(!  like  to  Mathew  Weyer,  born  in  the  town  of  Audewarp,  and  his 
children.  By  p.s. 

Nov.  20.       Licence  for  William  Trnssell,  knight,  .son  and  heir  of  Thomas  Trussell, 
Westn)iuster.  knight,  to  enter  I'reely  into  all  castles,  lordships,  manors,  lands,  I'ents, 
reversions,  services,  views  of  frank-pledge,   courts    leet,  knights'  fees, 
warrens,  parks,  tisheries,  fairs,  markets,  advowsons  and  other  possessions 
which  should  descend  to  him  on  the  death  of  his  father.  By  p.s. 

U72. 

Jan.  13.  General  pardon  to  Master  John  Walter  of  St.  Albans,  co.  Hertford,  clerk, 
Westmiuster.  of  all  offences  committed  by  him  before  23  December  last.  By  p.s. 


Membrane  13. 

Feb.  18.  General  pardon  to  William  Tournay,  prior  of  the  Hospital  of  St.  John 
Vi'estmiuster.  of  Jerusalem  iu  England.  By  K. 

The  like  to  the  following  : — 

Richard  Passemer  late  of  London,  '  gentilman,'  alias  late  of  the  street 
of  St.  John  without  the  bar  of  Westsmythfeld  in  the  suburbs  of 
Loudon,  CO.  Middlesex,  alius  late  of  Gerbevyl,  co.  Essex. 
John  Formour  late  of  Loudon,  alias  John  Furmer  late  of  the  street  of 
St.  John  aforesaid.  By  K. 

Feb.  12.        Licence  for  the  king's  sister  Margaret,  duchess  of  Burgundy,  or  lier 
Wcstmiustcr.  executors  or  administrators  after  her  decease  or  their  factors  or  attorneys 
to  ship  50  sacks  of  wool  in  any  ports  of  the  realm  and  take  them  to 
foreign  parts  by  the  straits  of  Marrok  quit  of  customs  and  subsidies. 
\_Fa'dcra.']  By  p.s. 


11  EDWARD  IV.— Part  II. 


307 


1472.  Membrane  12.- 

Fcb.  29.  Commission  to  Hemy  Sharp,  doctor  of  laws,  Tiiomas  Candore  and  Jolm 
W<'!>tuiiaiiter.  ISeucourt,  doctors  of  decrees,  Tliomas  Ursewyk,  knight,  chief  baron  of  the 
Exchequer,  William  Stokker  .rnd  William  Taylard,  knights,  Richard  Leyty, 
bachelor  of  cither  law,  Robert  Basset,  citizen  and  alderman  of  London,  and 
Philip  Hardbene,  '  merchaunt,' to  hear  and  determine  an  appeal  by  John 
Zeboll  alias  Seboll,  merchant  of  Spain,  against  a  decision  of  Master 
William  Goodyer,  doctor  of  laws,  lieutenant  or  commissary  of  the  king's 
brother  Richard,  duke  of  Gloucester,  great  constable  of  England,  in  a  case 
before  him  in  the  White  Hall  at  Westminster,  touching  the  non-delivery  by 
the  said  John  to  Thomas  Wattys,  citizen  and  draper  of  London,  of  a  certain 
quantity  of  white  soap  according  to  a  contract  between  the  latter  and 
Didacus  de  Coriasrnbias  and  John  de  Vermco,  merchants  of  Spain,  made  in 
Jjiugys  in  Flanders,  for  which  the  said  Thomas  claimed  ceituin  other  goods 
of  the  said  Didacus  and  John  do  Vcrmeo  in  the  possession  of  the  said 
John  Zeboll. 

Feb.  25.        Innpeximus  and  confirmation  to  the  weavers  and  fullers  of  the  town  of 
"Wcstmiuster.  Oxford  of  letters  patent  dated  13  July,  17  Henry  VI,  granting  licence  for 
their  incorporation.  For  2  marks  paid  in  the  hanaper. 


Membrane  11. 


Feb.  7. 

AVcstmiueter. 

Jan. 13. 

Westminster. 


Feb.  18. 

Wcstmiuster. 


Feb.  14. 

Westuiiuiler, 

Feb.  26. 

Westminster. 


Grant  to  Gilbert  Desydwyn  alias  Gysbert  Desydewyn  of  the  town  of 
Calais,  '  berebrewer,'  and  the  heirs  of  his  body  of  letters  of  denization. 

By  p  s. 

Grant  to  John  Pilkyngton,  one  of  the  knights  of  the  body,  and  the  heirs 
male  of  his  body  of  the  manor  of  Evesgrano  Avith  its  members,  two 
messuages,  three  cottages  and  55  acres  of  hind  in  Goacnor,  one  messuage, 
two  cottages  and  73  acres  of  land  in  Whityngham,  a  tenement  and  20  acres 
of  land  in  Ilacunsawe  and  4  acres  of  land  in  Dilworthc,  co.  Lancaster,  and 
the  manors  of  Rotheniell  and  Rrayton,  100  acres  of  land  and  pasture  in 
Barley  by  Selby,  three  enclosures  of  land  called  '  Mikilhirst,'  '  Euelland  ' 
and  'Berkerland'  and  three  acres  of  laud  in  the  simie,  a  toncnicnl  and 
12  a«res  of  land  in  Hawton  in  Craven,  four  cottages  in  Selby  and  a 
tenement  and  8  acres  of  land  in  Nowsom  in  Craven,  co.  i'ork,  lato  of  John 
Cateral!  late  of  Selby,  esquire,  and  in  the  king's  hands  by  rea.son  of  an  net 
in  Parliament  at  Westmini;ter,  4  November,  1  Edward  IV,  by  pretext  of 
which  he  was  convicted  of  high  treason,  to  hold  with  all  their  members 
wilh  knights'  fees,  advowsons,  wardships,  marriages,  warrens  and  other  profils 
by  the  services  of  as  many  knights'  fees  and  as  many  other  rents  and 
services  as  they  were  held  by  before  4  March,  1  Edward  IV,  and  all  issues 
from  that  date.  By  p.s. 

Grant  to  the  merchants  of  the  city  of  Cologne  in  Almain,  who  have  and  in 
times  past  have  had  among  other  merchants  of  Almain  the  how^G  in  the  city 
uf  Loudon  commonly  called  Guildelialla  Theulonicoruin  that  for  one  year 
from  Easter  next  they  shall  enjoy  their  ancient  privileges  throughcut  the 
realm  of  England  and  other  places  subject  to  the  king  and  they  and  llu-ir 
factors,  attorneys  and  servants  shall  be  (piit  of  all  sul)si(lics  granted  to  the 
king  for  their  persons  or  for  all  goods  and  merchandise  brought  by  them 
into  or  cut  of  the  realm,  savins  to  the  kins  his  ancient  rights  and  customs. 

By  p.s. 

Presentation  of  Robert  Blakwall  to  the  jiarish  church  of  Gcsylham,  in 
the  diocete  of  Norwich. 

General  pardon  to  Henry  Roos,  knight,  of  all  oircuccs  committed  by  him 
before  14  February.  By  p.s. 

U  2 


308 


CALENDAR  OF  PATENT  ROLLS. 


1472. 
Jan.  28. 

Westminster. 


Feb.  2. 

Westminster. 


14.71. 

Sept.  28, 
Westminster. 

1472. 

Jan.  7. 
Westminster. 


Jan  17. 

Westminster. 


1471. 

Dec.  5. 

AVestminster. 


1472. 

Feb.  12. 

Westminster. 


Feb.  2.3. 

Westminster. 


Membrane  10. 

Grant  to  William  Toures,  chaplain,  of  the  canonry  and  prebend  which 
John  Hury  lately  had  within  the  king's  free  chapel  of  St.  Mary,  St.  George 
and  St.  Edward  the  Confessor  within  the  castle  of  Wyndesore,  void  by  his 
resignation.  By  K. 

Mandate  in  pursuance  to  the  dean  and  chapter  of  the  chapel. 

Grant  to  Master  Edmund  Lichefeld  of  the  prebend  of  SowthkaiU  in 
tiie  cathedral  church  of  Lincoln,  void  by  the  death  of  the  last  incumbent 
and  in  the  king's  gift  by  reason  of  the  temporalities  of  the  bishopric  being 
in  his  hands.  By  p.s. 

Mandate  in  pursuance  to  the  dean  and  chapter. 

General  pardon  to  John  Stanley  late  of  Baterssey,  co.  Surrey,  esquire. 

ByK. 

Grant^to  the  king's  aunt  Anne,  duchess  of  Buckingham,  the  wife  of  Waller 
Blount,  knight,  lord  Mountjoy,  and  herdieirs  of  eight  messuages,  eighteen 
tofts,  100  acres  of  arable  kud  and  30  acres  of  meadow  in  Batersey  and 
Waiinesworth,  co.  Surrey,  and  pasture  in  gross  for  8  oxen,  G  cows,  10 
bullocks,  150  sheep,  2  sows,  a  bull  and  2  boars  in  the  common  called 
Westlieth,  viz.  from  Wassyngham,  Eydon  and  Waudesworth  to  Totyng, 
and  in  the  common  called  Esthetli,  viz.  from  Wassyngham  and  Rydon  to 
Balam  and  Clopham,  and  in  the  common  called  Fyngewode  at  all  times  of 
the  year,  late  of  John  Stanley,  esquire,  and  forfeited  to  the  king  because 
he  granted  them  to  John  Hunt,  steward  of  the  lands  of  the  abbot  and 
convent  of  St.  Peter,  Westminster,  Richard  Newedyke  and  William  Parker 
for  the  use  of  the  said  abbot  and  convent,  without  licence,  contrary  to  the 
statute  of  mortmain,  to  hold  the  same  of  the  chief  lords  of  the  fee  by  the 
old  rents  and  services.  By  K. 

Grant  to  William  Baldry,  whom  the  king  appointed  searcher  in  the  port 
of  London  and  ports  and  places  adjacent  by  letters  patent  dated  4  No- 
vember, 9  Edward  IV,  of  a  moiety  of  the  forfeitui-es  of  goods  in  the  same 
from  that  date.  By  p.s. 

Licence,  at  the  supplication  of  the  king's  knight  Robert  Wyngefelde,  for 
the  acquisition  in  mortmain  by  the  master  or  warden  and  bretiiren  of  the 
college  of  St.  John  Evangelist,  Rushworth,  of  lands,  tenements  and  rents, 
not  held  in  chief,  to  the  value  of  40  marks  yearly. 

By  p.s.  and  for  40  marks  paid  in  the  hanaper. 

Presentation  of  John  Pelitott,  chaplain  of  the  chantry  at  the  altar  of 
St.  Mary  in  the  cathedral  church  of  Chichester,  of  the  jurisdiction  of  the 
dean  of  Chichester,  to  the  parish  church  of  St.  Peter  by  Gyldynhall, 
Cliichester,  of  the  same  jurisdiction,  on  an  exchange  of  benefices  with 
William  Cole. 

Pardon  to  Joan  Dynham,  widow,  Roger  Keys,  clerk,  Thomas  Couderowe, 
clerk,  and  John  Mcrifeld,  tenants  of  the  lands  of  Nicholas  Carewe,  esquire, 
late  sheriff  of  Devon,  deceased,  of  all  accounts,  debts,  fines,  issues  and 
amercements  due  to  the  king  from  the  said  Nicholas  orfi  om  them  as  tenants 
of  his  lands.  By  p.s. 

Whereas  by  letiers  patent  dated  29  January,  G  Edward  IV,  the  king 
granted  to  William  Wade  the  manor  of  PolstCLlhall  in  Burneham,  co.  Norfolk, 
with  the  advowson  of  the  church  and  3  acres  of  land  in  Burneham  for  life, 
subject  to  a  charge  of  10  marks  yearly  to  John  Grey  and  David  Chambley, 


11  EDWAED  IV.— Part  II. 


309 


1472.  Membrane  10 — cont, 

and  the  said  William  has  been  distrained  upon  for  the  said  10  marks  yearly 
from  8  December,  4  Edward  IV,  and  John  Hcvenyngham,  knight,  late 
sheriff  of  Norfolk  and  Suffolk,  has  been  charged  with  the  same  at  the 
Exchequer,  the  king  hereby  pardons  to  them  the  said  sums  and  all  arrears 
and  grants  that  the  said  William  shall  hold  the  premises  for  life  quit  of  the 
said  charge.  By  p.s. 

Feb.  15.        Grant  for  life  to  the  king's  knight  Maurice  Berkley  of  the  office  of 
Westminster,  constable  of  the  king's  castle  by  the  town  of  Soutiiampton,  void  by  the  death 
of  Humphrey  Audeley,  with  all  profits,  receiving  10/.  yearly  for  the 
accustomed  fee  of  the  office  from  the  customs  and  subsidies  in  the  port  of 
the  town.  By  p.s. 

Vacated  by  surrender  and  cancelled  so  far  as  concerns  the  said  lOl. 
yearly,  because  the  king  granted  the  like  to  him  by  other  letters  patent  on 
1  December,  12  Edward  IV. 

Membrane  9. 

Feb.  14.  Grant  to  Ralph  Verney,  knight,  and  Richard  Fowelcr  and  their  heirs,  for 
Westminster,  the  use  of  the  said  Ralph  and  his  heirs,  for  certain  sums  of  money  paid  by 
him  to  the  king,  of  the  reversion  of  the  manor  or  lordship  of  Saldon  or 
Saldeyn  with  its  members,  the  manor  of  Donyngton  or  Donton,  the  manor  of 
Stone  called  '  Seyntclerc  Maner  '  alias  '  Bracy  Maner,'  a  messuage,  two  tofts 
and  12  virgates  in  Morton  in  tlie  parish  of  Donton,  a  messuage,  7  virgates 
of  land,  'M  acres  of  mead'iw  and  20  acres  of  pasture  in  Parmer  and  two 
tofts  and  5  virgates  of  land  in  Waldcruge,  co.  Buckingliam,  a  tenement 
which  James  Welles,  '  dr;ii)cr,'  iicld  in  Bradstrete  in  the  p;u'ish  of  St. 
Chrislopher  by  le  Stokkes,  London,  a  messuage  with  two  tenements  annexed 
in  the  parish  of  St.  Peter  le  Poor,  Loiul<m,  which  Peter  Morisson,  merchant, 
held  at  farm,  and  a  messuage  which  Thomas  Ougle,  '  carpenter,'  held  at 
farm  in  the  parish  of  St.  Peter,  Cornhill,  London,  in  tlic  event  of  the  death 
without  male  heir  of  his  body  of  Thomas  Mongomery,  knight,  to  whom 
the  same  were  granted  by  letters  patent  dated  15  December,  4  Edward  IV. 

By  p.s. 

Feb.  21.  Grant  to  Thomas  Hukn.nll,  Thomns  Ilalytreholme,  William  Rolhcrham, 
Westminster.  Thomas  Wencelagh,  John  CrumAvell,  George  Wright  and  Tliomas  Kyrkeman, 
chaplains,  that  they  and  their  successors,  seven  persons  in  the  choir  of  the 
collegiate  church  of  St.  Jolin,  lieverley,  may  form  one  corporate  body  with 
perpetual  succession  and  power  of  impleading  and  being  impleaded  and 
acquiring  in  mortmain  lands,  rents,  services  and  possessions,  not  held  in 
chief.  By  p.s. 

Feb.  24.        General  pardon  to  Richard  Hastyngee,  knight,  late  esquire,  late  sheriff  of 
Westminster,  the  county  of  Northampton,  of  all  offences  committed  liy  him  and  all  escapes 
of  felons  all  fines,  issues,  debts,  accounts  and  arrears  due  from  him  to  the 
king.  By  p.s. 

P  resentation  of  Richard  Mayhowc  to  the  churcli  of  St.  Peter  by  Calais 
in  the  parts  of  Picnrdy,  void  by  the  death  of  the  last  incumbent.  The  letters 
are  directed  to  Th.  cardinal  archbishop  of  Canterbury. 

Feb.  24.        Grant  for  life  to  the  king's  servitor  Robert  Vuton,  one  of  the  yeomen  of 
Westminster,  the  crown,  of  the  ofBce  of  the  custody  of  the  king's  cliace  of  Brikland  and 
Bilhay  which  Nicholas  Rygby  lately  had,  receiving  the  accustomed  fees. 

By  p.s. 

Feb.  29.       Licence  for  the  sub-  prior  and  convent  of  the  house  or  priory  of  St.  Peter, 
Westmiustcr.  Dunstable,  of  the  order  of  St.  Augustine,  in  the  diocese  of  Lincoln,  to  elect 
a  prior  in  the  place  of  John  lloxton,  resigned. 


310 


CALENDAR  OF  PATENT  ROLLS. 


2472.  Memhram  9 — cont, 

Feb.  25.        General  pardon  to  Master  Robert  Stillyngton,  bishop  of  Bath  and  Wells, 
Westminster,  dean  of  the  king's  free  chapel  of  St.  Martin  le  Grand,  London,  late  keeper 
of  the  privy  seal.    \^Fccdera7\  By  K. 


Jan.  17. 

Westminster. 


Feb.  26. 
Westminster. 


Feb.  27. 
Westminster. 


March  1. 
Westminster, 


1471. 

June  27. 
Westminster. 


3IEMBRANE  8. 

Grant  to  Thomas  Burgh,  knight,  and  the  heirs  male  of  his  body  of  the 
rever.^iou  of  the  manors  of  Lyndewode,  Thureswey,  Grymesthorpe,  Edenham, 
Aylesthorpe  and  Southorp  with  their  members,  co.  Lincoln,  and  the  lands 
and  hereditaments  called  '  Beaumont  Rent'  in  the  city  of  Lincoln,  which 
reversion  came  into  the  king's  hands  by  reason  of  an  Act  of  Par- 
liament on  4  November,  1  Edward  IV,  against  William  Beaumont,  late 
viscount  Beaumont,  son  and  heir  of  John,  viscount  Beaumont,  on  the 
death  of  Katharine,  duchess  of  Norfolk,  and  the  reversion  of  the  manors  of 
Riskyngton  and  Digby  with  their  members,  co.  Lincoln,  which  Thomas, 
cardinal  archbishop  of  Canterbury,  George,  archbishop  of  York,  Henry,  earl 
of  Essex,  John,  earl  of  Wiltshire,  and  Walter  Blount,  knight,  lord  Mountjoy, 
hold  of  the  king's  grant  by  letters  patent  for  the  use  of  Joan  the  wife  of  the 
said  William,  viscount  Beaumont,  on  the  death  of  the  said  Joan  or  so  soon 
as  they  come  into  the  king's  hands ;  to  hold  with  knights'  fees,  advowsons, 
wardships,  marriages,  reliefs,  escheats,  courts,  views  of  frank-pledge,  parks, 
warrens,  fairs,  markets,  liberties  and  other  profits  by  the  services  of  as 
many  knights'  fees  and  as  many  other  rents  and  services  as  they  were  held 
by  before  4  March,  1  Edward  IV.  By  p.s. 

Grant  for  life  to  Alice  Sayvile  of  a  tun  of  wine  yeaily  in  the  port  of 
Kyngeston  on  Hull  by  delivery  of  the  chief  butler  of  England  or  his 
deputy  there,  and  one  stag  yearly  in  the  king's  '  herde'  of  Thourn  and  two 
bucks,  one  in  the  king's  park  of  Hatfeld  and  the  other  in  the  king's  park  of 
Connysburgh.  By  K. 

Grant  for  life  to  Thomas  Troys  of  the  office  of  clerk  of  the  king's  works 
within  his  manor  and  park  of  Claringdon,  co.  Wilts,  from  14  April  last 
with  wages  of  6d.  daily  for  his  fee  and  all  other  accustomed  profits  from 
the  issues  of  the  county  of  Wilts  and  6d.  daily  for  the  ancient  fee  of  the 
office  from  the  said  issues,  in  lieu  of  a  grant  of  the  office  to  Edward  Gowcr 
by  letters  patent  dated  5  November,  1  Edward  IV,  surrendered.       By  p.s. 

Mandate  in  pursuance  to  the  sheriff  of  Wilts. 

Grant  for  life  to  the  king's  kinsman  William,  earl  of  Arundel,  of  the  office 
of  constable  of  the  king's  castle  of  Dover  and  all  rents  and  services  called 
'  castelwarde '  and  herbage  and  advowsons  pertaining  to  the  same,  and  the 
wardenship  of  the  Cinque  Ports  and  all  forfeitures,  '  schares,'  wreck  of  sea 
and  other  profits  ;  and  also  300/.  yearly  for  the  sustenance  of  himself  and 
priests,  servants,  watchmen,  officers  and  artificers  there,  as  Humphrey,  late 
duke  of  Gloucester,  had,  viz.  146/.  from  the  wards  pertaining  to  the  castle 
and  154/.  from  the  fee  farm  of  the  town  of  Southampton.  By  p.s. 

Mandate  in  pursuance  to  the  sheriff,  mayor,  bailiffs,  burgesses,  men  or 
other  receivers  of  the  fee  farm  of  the  town  of  Southampton. 

Grant  for  life  to  William  Hastynges,  knight,  lord  Hastynges,  of  the 
offices  of  constable  of  the  king's  castle  of  Notyngham,  porter  or  keeper  of 
tho  gate  of  the  castle,  steward  and  keeper  of  the  forest  of  Sherwode  and 
keeper  of  the  king's  parks  of  Beskewode  and  Clypston  and  woods  of 
Billowe,  Birkeland,  Rumwode,  Ouselande,  and  Fulwode,  co.  Nottingham, 
all  herbage,  agistment  and  pannage  of  the  said  parks  and  woods,  the  king's 
mills  of  Notyngham  called  *  Castelmylnes,'  the  king's  rivers  of  Trent  and 
Lene  in  the  town  of  Notyngham  and  free  fishery  in  the  same,  all  the  king's 


11  EDWARD  IV.— Part  11, 


311 


1471.  Membrane  8 — cont. 

meadows  below  or  by  the  castle  between  it  and  the  Trent  called  *  the 
Castelmcdowes  '  and  '  Constable  Holme,'  all  the  king's  pasture  there  called 
'  the  Conyngarth  '  alias  '  the  Castell  Apilton '  and  '  Mildam,'  three  parcels  of 
meadow  lying  on  the  bank  of  the  river  Lene  and  in  '  the  Castell  hilles  '  and 
ail  other  meadows  and  pastures  that  any  constable  of  the  castle  had  by 
reason  of  his  office,  all  chattels  waived  and  strays  and  all  profits  and 
emoluments  of  cheminage  within  the  said  forest,  parks  and  woods  belonging 
to  the  king  in  any  way  by  reason  of  the  said  forest  and  castle,  all  fines,  issues 
and  amercements  of  tenants  and  residents  within  the  forest  and  forfeitures 
of  non-residents  for  non-expeditation  of  dogs  called 'dog  silver'  according  to 
the  custom  of  the  forest,  and  the  office  of  one  of  the  chamberlains  of  the 
receipt  of  the  Exchequer  or  the  office  of  one  of  the  chamberlains  cf  the 
Exchequer,  which  Humphrey  Bourghchier,  knight,  lately  had  and  wliich 
pertains  to  the  king  because  he  died  without  male  heir  of  his  body,  with 
the  appointment  of  one  of  the  ushers  of  the  said  receipt  and  all  other 
officers  and  ministers  belonging  to  the  office,  to  hold  the  above  by  fealty 
only,  with  issues  from  5  June  last,  i-eceiving  the  accustomed  fees  for  the 
said  offices  and  custodies.  By  p.s. 

1472.  MEiinnANE  7. 

Feb.  20.  Licence  for  Margaret,  late  the  wife  of  Robert,  lord  Ilungerford,  knight, 
Westminster,  and  John  Cheyne  of  I'ynne  and  John  ISIcrvyn,  esquires,  to  found  a  \n'v- 
petuul  chantry  of  two  chaplains  to  celebrate  divine  service  daily  in  the 
cathedral  church  of  St.  Mary,  Salisbury,  within  a  chapel  newly  built  I)y 
her,  dedicated  to  Jesus  and  St.  Mary  and  annexe<l  to  the  chapel  of  Holy 
Trinity  and  St.  Mary  in  the  same  church  where  the  said  Kobert  is  buried, 
for  the  good  estate  of  the  king,  his  consort  Elizabeth,  queen  of  England, 
Ilichard  Beauchamp,  bishop  of  Salisbury,  the  said  Margaret,  John  and  John 
and  Master  James  GroKlewell,  prothonotary  apostolic,  dean  of  the  catliedral, 
and  for  their  souls  after  death  and  the  souls  of  the  said  liol^ert  and  his 
parents  Walter  Hungerford,  late  lord  Himgerford,  and  Katliarine  his  wife, 
and  William,  late  lord  Botreaux,  and  Elizabeth  his  wife,  parents  of  the 
said  Margaret,  and  Gregory  Wcslby,  esquire  ;  and  to  grant  in  mortmain 
the  manor  of  Inimcr  and  the  advowson  of  the  free  chapel  in  the  n.anor 
and  three  messuages,  200  acres  of  land,  300  acres  of  jiasture,  8  acres  of 
meadow  and  30*.  rent  in  Wynterborn  Ilomyngton,  co.  Wilts,  late  «)f  tlie 
said  Walter,  lord  Hungerford,  a  moiety  of  the  manor  of  Folkc,  co  Dorset, 
and  the  advowson  of  the  church  of  Folkc  to  the  dean  and  chapter  of  the 
cathedral,  who  shall  jiay  therefrom  a  yearly  rent  of  20  marks  G«.  ^d.  to  the 
chaplains  of  the  said  chanti  y,  viz.  12  marks  to  each  chafdain  for  his  stipend, 
20s.  for  the  rent  of  their  house  and  13a-.  Ad,  to  find  bread,  wine  and  wax 
for  celebrating  mass  and  performing  divine  offices,  and  distribute  ICOs. 
yearly  among  themselves  and  other  ministers  of  the  cathedral  to  celebrate 
the  anniversary  of  the  said  liobcrt  and  Margaret  in  the  cathedral  on  Friday 
before  AVhitsuntide,  with  power  of  dis-lraint  for  the  said  chaplains  in  case 
of  non-payment.  By  p.s.  and  for  120  marks  paid  in  the  hanaper. 

Feb.  25.  Grant  to  William  Ilastynges,  knight,  lord  Hastyiiges,  of  the  custody  of 
Wefciiuiiis-ter.  all  castles,  lordships,  manors,  lauds,  rents,  services,  knights'  fees  .iiid  other 
liercditaniciits  with  advowsoris  which  Elizabeth,  now  deceased,  late  the 
wife  of  John  Ilaryngton,  kniglit,  and  afterwards  of  William  Bonevile, 
knight,  held  in  dower,  during  the  minority  of  Cecily  the  kinswoman  and 
heiress  of  the  said  John  Ilaryngton  and  AVilliam  Bonevile,  and  so  from 
heir  to  heir  during  minority  with  the  mairiiigc  of  the  heir.  By  p.s. 

1471.  Membrane  6. 

Dec.  2.  Insjicriimis  and  confii m.'ition  to  llio  dean  and  chapter  of  the  cathedral 
Westminster,  church  of  St.  Mary,  Lincoln,  of  letters  patent  dated  4  February,  22  Ed- 


31^ 


CALENDAE  OF  PATENT  KOLLS. 


|47lt  Membrane  6 — cont. 

ward  III,  confirming  the  grant  to  them  by  Edward  II.  of  the  custody  of  the 
temporalities  of  the  bishopric  dui'ing  voidance. 

For  20s.  paid  in  the  banaper. 

J uly  5.  Licence,  for  20  marks  paid  at  the  receipt  of  the  Exchequer,  for  Eichard 
AVestminster.  Chambrelaiue,  esquire,  brother  and  heir  of  William  Chauibrelaine,  esquire, 
deceased,  tenant  in  chief,  to  enter  freely  into  all  castles,  lordships,  manors, 
lands,  fee-farms,  annuities,  reveraions,  rents,  services,  hundreds,  views  of 
frank-pledge,  courts  leet,  sheriffs'  turns,  liberties,  fairs,  markets,  jurisdictions, 
knights'  fees,  advowsons,  woods,  agistments,  pannages,  mills,  waters, 
fisheries  and  other  possessions  within  the  realm  which  should  descend  to 
him  on  the  death  of  his  brother.  By  p.s. 


1472. 

Feb.  5. 
Westminster. 


March  2. 
Westminster. 


March  3. 
Westminster. 


Feb.  29. 

Westminster. 


Membrane  5. 

Grant  to  the  king's  brother  John,  duke  of  Suffolk,  and  the  king's  sister 
Elizabeth  his  wife  of  the  custody  of  all  lordships,  manors,  lands,  rents, 
services  and  other  possessions  with  advowsons,  knights'  fees,  courts  leet, 
views  of  frank-pledge,  fairs,  markets,  parks,  warrens,  franchises,  liberties, 
profits  and  otlier  commodities  late  of  John  Lovell,  knight,  late  lord  of 
Lovell,  deceased,  tenant  in  chief  by  knight-service,  or  Joan  his  wife  or  any 
ancestor  of  Francis  his  son  and  heir,  during  the  minority  of  the  said  Francis, 
and  the  custody  and  marriage  of  the  latter  without  disparagement,  and  so 
from  heir  to  heir  during  minority,  finding  a  competent  sustenance  for  the 
heir  and  supporting  all  houses,  enclosures  and  buildings,  provided  that  this 
grant  shall  not  extend  to  any  possessions  which  may  descend  to  the  heir 
in  future.  By  p.s. 

General  pardon  to  Joan  Lewkenore  late  the  wife  of  John  Lewkcnore, 
knight,  of  Wcstgrynsted,  co.  Sussex,  widow,  of  all  offences  committed  by 
her  before  27  February  last.  By  p.s. 

Grant  for  life  to  John  Hodelston,  knight,  in  recompence  of  the  ofEces  of 
lieutenant  of  the  constable  of  the  castle  of  Cokermoutli,  lately  granted  to 
him  by  the  king,  of  the  custody  of  the  manor  or  lordship  of  Egremond,  co. 
Cumberland,  to  hold  from  1  May,  10  Edward  IV,  without  rendering  any 
account.  By  K. 

Whereas  on  the  death  of  Robert  Ponynges,  knight,  by  an  inquisition 
taken  at  Holyngbourne,  co.  Kent,  on  Wednesday  after  St.  James  the  Apostle, 
25  Henry  VI,  before  John  Seyntler,  then  escheator  in  the  county,  it  was 
found  that  the  said  Robert  died  seised  in  his  demesne  as  of  fee  of  divers 
manors,  lands,  rents,  services,  advowsons  and  possessions  specified  held  in 
gavelkind  and  to  these  Eleanor,  then  the  wife  of  Henry  Percy,  knight,  and 
daughter  of  Richard  Ponynges  son  of  the  said  Robert,  and  Robert  Ponynges 
and  Edward  Ponynges,  sons  of  the  said  Robert,  were  the  heirs  and  Eleanor 
was  also  heir  to  other  manors  and  lands  specified,  and  althougli  the  greater 
part  of  these  possessions  were  held  at  common  law  and  not  according  to 
gavelkind  they  still  remain  in  the  king's  hands  because  Eleanor  has  not 
had  due  livery,  the  king  grants  licence  to  her  by  the  name  of  Eleauoi-, 
countess  of  Northumberland,  the  younger,  to  enter  freely  into  the  said 
possessions  lield  at  common  law  and  her  third  share  of  the  possessions  held 
in  gavelkind  and  pardons  to  her  all  debts,  accounts,  arrears,  issues  forfeit, 
fines,  reliefs  and  scutages  due  for  the  same.  By  p.s. 


Membrane  4. 


Jan.  8.  General  pardon  to  Humphrey  Gentili,  merchant  of  Luke,  of  all  offences 
Westminster,  committed  by  him  before  BO  September  last.  By  p.s. 


11  EDWARD  IV.— Part  II. 


313 


1472. 

Jan.  30. 

Westminster, 


Feb.  2. 

Westminster. 

Jan.  17. 

Westminster. 

Feb.  3. 

Westminster. 


Feb.  1, 

Westminster. 


Feb.  3. 

Westminster. 


Jan.  10. 

Westminster. 

Feb.  13. 

Westminster. 

Feb.  17. 
Westminster. 

Feb.  1.5. 
Westminster. 


Feb.  14. 
WcstiniiisteT. 


Feb.  22. 

Westminster, 


Membrane  4 — cont. 

Grant  to  Peter  Huse,  bachelor  in  decrees,  of  the  prebend  of  Stowe  in  the 
cathedral  church  of  Lincoln,  in  the  king's  gift  by  reason  of  the  temporalities 
of  the  bishopric  being  in  his  hands.  By  K. 

Mandate  in  pursuance  to  the  dean  and  chapter. 

General  pardon  to  Ralph  Babthorpe  of  Babthorpe,  esquire  in  the  county 
of  York,  alias  '  gentilman,'  of  all  offences  committed  by  him  before 
20  January  last.  By  p.s. 

Grant  to  Martin  Learn,  bom  in  Flanders,  and  the  heirs  of  his  body  of 
letters  of  denization.  By  K.  and  for  ^  mark  paid  in  the  hanaper. 

Appointment  of  William  Ourey  and  Thomas  Besteney  to  repair  the 
king's  ship  called  le  Grace  Dieu  and  to  take  smiths,  carpenters  and  other 
workmen  and  timber,  iron,  boards,  canvas,  pitch  and  other  necessaries  and 
carriage  for  the  same.  By  K. 

Appointment  of  John  Gardener,  yeoman  purveyor  of  the  office  of  the 
poultry  of  the  household,  to  take  capons,  hens,  swans,  ducks,  egges  and 
other  things  pertaining  to  his  office  for  the  expenses  of  the  household  and 
carriage  necessary  for  the  same.       By  bill  of  the  steward  of  the  household. 
The  like  of  the  following  : — 
John  Bodyll. 
John  Lay  ton. 

Grant  for  life  to  Richai'd  Wellys,  carpenter  of  the  town  of  Calais,  of  (he 
office  of  master  carpenter  of  the  king's  works  of  the  .said  town  and  the 
marches,  with  a  mansion  and  all  fees  belonging  to  Ihe  office,  when  it  shall 
become  void  by  the  death,  surrender  or  forfeiture  of  John  Pacche,  late 
holder  of  the  same.  By  K. 

Grant  to  Dan  Thomas  Grove,  monk,  of  the  priory  of  Monkenfiirlegh,  in 
the  diocese  of  Salisbury,  void  by  the  cession  of  the  Last  incumbenf,  and 
appointment  of  him  as  prior.  By  p.s. 

Grant  to  Thomas  Berkeley,  kuight,  of  20  marks  from  the  issues  of  the 
county  of  Rutland.  By  K. 

Appointment,  during  pleasure,  of  Thomas  Grene  as  gauger  in  the  port 
of  Ipswich  and  ports  and  places  adjacent,  receiving  the  accustomed  fee. 

By  bill  of  the  treasurer. 

Presentation  of  John  Wygmore,  chaplain,  to  the  parish  church  of  St. 
Mary  Magdalen,  Scales,  in  the  county  of  Guysnes,  in  the  diocese  of 
Terouaune,  void  by  the  death  of  Gervase  Qilmet,  last  parson.  The  letters 
are  directed  to  Th.  cardinal  archbishoj)  of  Canterbury, 

Protection  with  clause  volumus,  for  one  year,  for  William  Ferys  of 
London,  alias  Ferry,  citizen  and  mercer  of  London,  staying  on  the  king's 
service  in  the  company  of  the  king's  kinsman  Henry,  earl  of  NorLhumI)er- 
land,  warden  of  the  east  march  of  England  towards  Scotland,  on  the  safe- 
custody,  defence  and  victualling  of  the  same.  By  bill  of  p.s. 

Grant  to  the  king's  kinswoman  Isabel  late  the  wife  of  John  Neville, 
marquess  Montagu,  of  the  custody  and  govcrnauce  of  his  son  George  during 
minority.  By  p.s. 


Membranes  3  a^xd  2, 

Feb.  23.        Indenture  between  the  king  and  William,  lord  Hastynges,  his  chamber- 
Westminster,  lain,  witnessing  that  whereas  the  king  had  for  coinage  of  every  pound  of 
Tower  weight  of  gold  and  silver   respectively  from  the  time   of  the 
beginning  of  his  new  coins  until  Michaelm.as,  6  Edward  IV.  20,v.  10c/.  and 
45.  6d.  and  from  thence  until  29  September,  7  Edward  IV.  20s.  lOd.  as 


314 


CALENDAE  OF  PATENT  ROLLS, 


1472.  Membranes  3  and  2 — cont. 

above  and  3s.  2d.  and  from  thence  until  Easter  last  14*.  Gd.  and  2s.  8d.  at 
Easter  lie  ordained  that  henceforth  no  more  should  be  taken  than  7s.  6d. 
and  18^/.  and  ordaining  the  said  lord  Hastynges  master  and  worker  of  the 
moneys  of  gold  and  silver  and  keeper  of  the  '  chaunges  '  and  '  outechaunges  ' 
in  the  Tower  of  London,  the  realm  of  England  and  the  town  and  marches 
of  Calais,  The  latter  hath  undertaken  to  make  five  kinds  of  gold  money,  one 
piece  '  rynnyng  for '  10s.  sterling  which  shall  be  called  the  '  ryall  noble  '  of 
gold,  of  which  there  shall  be  45  in  every  pound  weight  of  the  Tower,  and 
pieces  of  5s.  called  the  '  ryall  half  noble,'  2s.  Gd.  called  the  '  ryall  farthyng,' 
6s.  Sd.  called  an  'angel'  and  3s.  Ad.  called  an  'angelet'  in  like  manner;  and 
every  pound  weight  of  the  Tower  of  the  said  moneys  shall  be  worth  221.  10s. 
and  shall  be  of  23  carats  2>\  grains  fine ;  of  which  pound  weight  the 
v/arden  shall  take  for  the  king  Is.  Qd.  whereof  the  master  shall  have  for 
the  working  of  the  coins  and  olher  expeases  2s,  Gd.  and  the  warden, 
controller,  clipper  of  the  irons,  clerk  and  usher  of  the  coins  shall  have 
their  fees  at  the  hands  of  the  warden,  and  there  shall  remain  to 
the  merchant  22/.  2s.  Gd.  The  master  shall  be  allowed  at  the  assay  a 
variation  of  weiglat,  or  alloy  of  the  eighth  part  of  a  carat  in  the  pound, 
which  is  called  '  remedie,'  but  otherwise  shall  melt  and  reforge  defective 
money  at  his  own  cost.  He  liath  undertaken  also  to  make  five  kinds  of 
silver  money,  a  pound  of  which  shall  be  worth  37s.  Gd.  viz.  a  piece  of  Ad. 
which  shall  be  called  a  '  grote,'  of  which  there  shall  be  112^  in  the  pound 
aforesaid,  and  pieces  called  '  a  half  grote,'  a  '  peny '  or  a  '  sterling,'  n 
'  halfpeny  '  and  a  '  ferthyng  '  in  like  manner ;  and  every  pound  of  silver 
money  shall  weigh  11  ounces  and  2  pennyweights  of  fine  silver  and  18 
pennyweights  of  alloy,  every  pennyweight  containing  24  grains  ;  of  which 
moneys  the  warden  shall  take  for  the  king  18J.  whereof  the  master  shall 
have  \2d.  and  the  warden,  controller,  clipper  of  the  irons,  clez'k  and 
usher  of  the  coins  shall  have  their  wages,  and  there  shall  remain  to  the 
merchant  36s.  The  '  remedye  '  shall  be  2d.  weight  in  every  pound.  Before 
issue  10s.  value  in  every  10  pounds  of  gold  and  2s.  value  in  every  100 
pounds  of  silver  shall  be  put  in  a  box  sealed  with  the  seals  of  the  warden, 
master,  and  controller  and  shut  with  three  keys  of  which  they  each  shall 
have  one,  and  the  said  box  shall  be  opened  every  three  months  upon 
reasonable  warning  before  certain  lords  of  the  council,  and  assay  made  by 
fire  or  touch  in  the  presence  of  the  warden,  master  and  controller.  The 
master  shall  make  a  privy  mark  upon  all  moneys  made  by  him,  and  the 
warden,  master  and  controller  shall  take  gravers  to  grave  the  irons,  and 
smiths  and  other  workmen,  and  the  irons  when  graven  shall  be  delivered 
by  indenture  to  the  clerk  of  the  mint  and  the  graver  shall  not  grave 
elsewhere  but  only  in  one  house  within  the  Tower.  The  master  shall 
receive  gold  and  silver  brought  to  the  Tower  at  its  true  value,  and  in 
case  of  doubt  the  king's  assayers  shall  determine  the  truth,  for  which 
two  good  stones  called  '  towches '  and  good  '  nedeles '  shall  bo  pro- 
vided, and  the  balances  and  weights  shall  be  amended  from  time  to  time. 
The  master  and  his  deputies,  officers  rnd  servants  and  all  persons  bringing 
gold  or  silver  to  tiie  Tower  shall  have  free  entry  and  issue. :  The 
delivery  of  gold  and  silver  shall  take  place  once  or  more  in  the  week  and 
the  master  shall  take  count  of  the  sum  coined  and  the  number  of  persons  to 
whom  delivery  shall  be  made.  No  money  or  bullion  shall  be  taken  out  of 
the  realm,  except  by  special  leave  of  the  king,  and  no  false  or  counterfeit 
money  brought  in.  The  king  confirms  to  the  said  warden,  master  and 
controller  and  all  other  ministers  of  the  mints  and  exchanges  the  charters 
and  franchises  granted  aforetime,  and  the  moneyers  and  workmen  shall  be 
ready  to  do  their  work  at  all  time  and  the  gold  and  silver  to  be  coined  shall 
be  delivered  to  them  in  clean  ingots.  The  master  shall  bring  all  the  gold 
and  silver  that  he  shall  receive  in  the  exchanges  or  by  colour  of  his  office  to 


11  EDWARD  IV.—PaetII. 


315 


]^4'72.  Membranes  ^  and  2 — cont. 

the  mints  to  be  made  into  money,  and  no  person  shall  hold  common 
excliange,  privy  or  apert,  on  pain  of  the  forfeiture  contained  in  the 
statute  of  2o  Edward  III,  of  which  forfeiture  the  said  master  shall  have 
12(7.  of  the  pound.  And  for  the  performance  of  the  covenants  aforesaid 
the  said  master  has  made  oath  in  Chancery  and  has  found  borrows  in  100/. 
each,  viz.  Sir  Richard  Hastinges,  knight,  Sir  Ralph  Hastinges,  knight, 
William  Stephens  of  London,  '  gcutilman,'  Hugh  Brice,  '  goldsmyth,'  Hugh 
Broun,  '  mercer,'  Christopher  Elyot,  '  goldsmytii,'  and  Henry  Wodecok, 
'  scryvanar.'    English.  By  p.s. 


Feb.  16. 
Westniiuster. 


Feb.  26. 

Westminster. 


Feb.  lo. 
Westiiiinster. 


1471. 

•June  17. 

Westminster. 


July  12. 
AVestiuinsler. 


Membrane  2 — cont. 

Appointmcnl  of  Tliomas  Bryan  as  chief  justice  of  the  Bench  during 
good  behaviour,  receiving  the  accustomed  fees,  in  lieu  of  a  like  appointment 
of  him  during  pleasure  by  letters  patent  dated  29  May  last,  surrendered. 

By  K. 

Grant  to  the  said  Thomas,  for  the  better  maintenance  of  his  estate  and 
his  expenses  iu  oilice,  of  140  marks  yearly  at  the  hands  of  the  clerk  or 
keeper  of  the  hanaper  or  the  customers  in  the  ports  of  London,  Bristol  and 
Kyngeston  on  Hull,  according  to  the  form  of  an  act  in  Parliament  at  AVest- 
minstcr,  18  Henry  VI.  ami  lOG*.  1  l^r/.  and  the  sixth  jiart  of  ^r/.  yearly 
at  Chiistmas  for  a  robe  witli  fur  and  GGs-.  (jd.  at  Wiiitsuutido  lor  a  robe 
with  lining. 

Grant  for  life  to  Hugh  Brice  of  Loudon,  '  goldsmyth,'  and  James  Brico 
his  son  of  the  ofiices  of  clerk  of  the  king's  mint,  money  and  change 
within  the  Tower  of  London  and  usher  of  the  said  excliange,  with  fees  as 
in  the  last  year  of  Edward  III.  and  the  fir.st  of  Richard  Jl.  at  the  hands 
of  the  warden  of  tlic  said  exchange,  in  lieu  of  like  grants  of  the  .'^iud  ollices 
t!)  the  said  Ilu^h  and  John  Sandes  by  letters  patent  dated  24  March, 
C  Edward  IV.  snrrenderod,  and  Hugli  Amory  by  letters  patent  dated 
4  June,  2  Edward  IV.  surrendered.  By  p.s. 

Grant  to  Richard  Neel,  one  of  the  justices  of  the  Bench,  for  the  better 
maintenance  of  his  estate  and  his  expenses  in  ofllce,  of  110  marks  yearly 
at  the  hands  of  the  clerk  or  keeper  of  the  hanaper  or  the  customers  in  the 
jjorta  of  London,  Bristol  and  Kyngeston  on  Hull,  according  to  tlie  form  of 
an  act  in  Parliament  at  Westminster,  18  Henry  VI.  and  106*.  \\\d.  and 
the  sixth  i)art  of  \d.  yearly  at  Christmas  for  a  robe  with  fur  and  G6s.  (jil. 
at  Whitsuntide  for  a  robe  with  lining. 

Grant  for  life  to  Richard  Beauchamp,  knigiit,  constable  of  the  castle  of 
Gloucester,  of  40  marks  yearly  frotn  the  fee  farm  of  the  town  from  Easter, 
10  Edward  IV.  By  p.s. 


2472.  Membrane  1. 

Jan.  18.  General  pardon  to  the  m.iyor,  const.ablcs  and  society  of  merchants  of  tiie 
Wcstiniiistci-.  staple  of  Calais  of  all  offences  committed  by  them  before  13  Jsnnary, 
11  Edward  IV.  and  all  amercements,  reliefs,  scutages,  debts,  accounts  ami 
arrears  due  from  them  to  tlic  king  before  29  September,  9  Edward  IV.  ; 
provided  that  this  pardon  shall  not  extend  to  any  capture  of  goods  of  tlie 
king  since  4  Marcli  last.  By  K. 

The  like  to  the  following  persons,  merchants  of  the  staple  of  Calais  : — 
John  Marshall,  citizen  and  merchant  of  York.  By  K. 

Thomas  Beseby  lato  of  Stowc  by  Lincoln,  co.  Lincoln,  *  mnrchaunt,' 
alias  late  mayor  of  Lincoln  and  cscheator  iu  that  city,  alias  of 


316 


CALENDAR  OF  PATENT  ROLLS. 


1472.  Membrane  1 — cont. 

Stowe  St.  Mary,  late  one  of  the  collectors  of  the  first  of  the  two 
fifteenths  and  tenths  granted  to  the  king  by  the  laity  in  the  eighth 
year  in  the  parts  of  Lyndesey.  By  K, 

Robert  Onley  of  Coventre,  '  merchant,'  alias  Robert  Woneley, 
*  gentilman,'  '  wolmarchaunt,'  alias  '  felmnrcliaunt,' f/Zms  late 

one  of  the  sheriffs  of  the  city  of  Coventre.  By  K. 

John  Croke,  citizen  of  Loudon,  '  gentilman.'  By  K, 

Thomas  Sharpe  of  London,  '  grocer.'  By  K. 

William  Browne  of  Staunford,  co.  Lincoln,  '  merchant.'  By  K. 

John  Tate  of  Loudon  the  younger,  '  mercer.'  By  K. 

Robert  Tate  of  London,  '  mercer.' 

Thomas  Wymark  of  London,  '  grocer.'  By  K. 

William  Bracebrygge  alias  Brasebrygge,  citizen  and  draper  of 
London.  By  K. 

John  Thryske,  mayor  of  the  staple  of  Calais,  alias  John  Thersk, 
late  mayor  of  York,  alias  of  Burton  by  Lincoln,  co.  Lincoln, 
'  marchaunt.'  By  K. 

William  Copley  of  London,  'gentilman,' o/^as  late  of  Barnbowe,  co, 
York,  alias  of  Doncastre,  co.  York.  By  K. 

Thomas  Parys  of  Skirbck,  co.  Lincoln,  '  marchaunt,'  alias  Thomas 
Parysshe  late  of  Boston,  co.  Lincoln.  By  K. 

Robert  Sutton  of  Boston,  co.  Lincoln,  '  marchaunt.'  By  K. 

William  Horne  alias  Horn,  citizen  and  '  Salter '  of  London.        By  K. 

Richard  Yorke,  merchant  of  York,  alias  'gentilman,'  alias  late  mayor 
of  York.  By  K. 

John  Barton  of  Holme  in  the  parish  of  Northmoscham,  co.  Notting- 
ham, '  merchaunt,'  alias  late  farmer  of  the  manor  of  Egyll  by 
Lincoln,  co.  Lincoln.  By  K. 

Thomas  Massyngberd  late  of  London,  *  gentilman,'  abas  late  citizen 
and  mercer  of  London,  alias  '  marchaunt.'  By  K. 

John  Massyngberd  late  of  London,!  '  mercer,'  alias  late  of  Boston. 
CO.  Lincoln,  '  wolmarchaunt,'  alias  late  of  Burgh,  co.  Lincoln, 
'  gentilman.'  By  K. 

John  Tate,  citizen,  mercer  and  alderman  of  London,  alias  '  mar- 
chaunt.' By  K. 

John  Fenne  alias  AfTenne  late  of  London,  <  stokfysshmonger,'  alias 
citizen  and  merchant  of  London,  alias  '  marchaunt.'  By  K. 

Richard  Lema+on  alias  Lemyngton  alias  Lemangton,  late  mayor  of 
York,  alias  merchant  of  York,  alias  'gentilman,'  alias  late  one  of 
the  customers  in  the  port  of  Kyngestoa  on  Hull.  By  K. 

William  Brompton  of  Kyngeston  ou  Hull,  co.  York,  '  marchaunt.' 

By  K. 

John  Swan  of  Kyngeston  on  Hull,  co.  York,  '  marchaunt.'         By  K. 


Membrane  2M. 

Feb.  3.         Commission  to  Ralph  Ayssheton,  knight,  sheriff  of  York,  and  Edmund 
Westminster.  Hastyngcs,  knight,  to  arrest  Martin  atte  See,  esquire,  and  bring  him  before 
the  king  and  council. 


11  EDWA.RD  IV.— Part  II. 


317 


1471.  ■  Membrane  21  d. 

Oct.  23.  Commission  to  IMasler  Thomas  Candor,  master  of  decrees,  Philip  Husko 
Westminster,  and  Master  Roger  Rotheram,  doctors  of  laws,  and  JMichael  Carvanell, 
bachelor  in  either  law,  to  hear  and  determine  an  appeal  by  Robert  Dropc, 
citizen  and  alderman  of  London,  against  a  decision  of  Dan  Robert  Essex, 
archdeacon  of  the  monastery  of  St.  Peter,  Westminster  by  Loudon,  and 
judge  of  civil  causes  of  dwellers  within  the  precinct  aud  jurisdiction  of  the 
niouastery,  not  jjertaining  to  the  court  of  Ro:ne,  in  a  cause  before  him  in 
\rliich  the  said  Robert  sued  Richard  Joynour,  staying  within  the  sanctuary 
of  the  monastery,  for  133/.  Gs.  8d.  which  the  latter  had  failed  to  pay 
according  to  promise. 

Dec.  15.  Commission  to  the  king's  kinsman  William,  earl  of  Arundel,  lieutenant 
Westraiuster.  of  Dover  castle  and  governor  of  the  Cinque  Ports,  Robert  Cok,  guardian  of 
t!ie  town  of  Sandwich,  Edward  Skelton,  one  the  king's  Serjeants  at  arms, 
William  Fcnnell,  John  Colle,  John  WaskefF,  .John  Saman  and  the  bailiff  of 
Sandwich  to  enquire  into  the  complaint  of  Domynggo  Demascata,  John 
Demascata  and  John  Garce,  merchants  of  Spain,  that  when  relying  on  the 
truces  between  the  king  and  his  kinsman  the  king  of  Castile  and  Leon  on 
18  October,  10  Edward  IV.  they  were  sailing  to  Sandwich  in  a  carvel  of 
Spain  called  la  3lari/c  de  Keijte  of  (he  burthen  of  G4  tuns,  laden  with 
wines  and  other  goods  and  merchandise,  they  were  taken  by  certi-.in  pirates 
lieges  of  the  king  in  a  ship  of  England  called  la  Marye  Welfare  of  which 
Robert  Tcygo  was  then  master,  victualled  by  Richard  Robyns,  Henry 
Stede  and  Thomas  Cokke,  and  despoiled  of  the  said  ship  and  its  gear 
and  the  said  goods  to  the  value  of  420/.,  and  to  cause  restitution  to  be 
made  and  to  aii'cst  the  offenders  and  bring  them  before  the  king  in 
Chancery. 


Membrane  2Ad. 

Nov.  20.        Commission  of  oyer  and  terminer  to  the  king's  kinsman  William,  carl  of 
Wcstmiuster.  Pembroke,  Kichard  Cliokk,  knight,  Thomas  Litelton,  Thomas  Vaghan, 
Thomas  Rriggo,  John  Herbert,  Hugh  Hunteley  and  Thomas  Morgau  in 
South  Wales.  By  K. 


1472.  Membrane  2\d. 

Feb.  5.         Commission  to  Ralph  do  Graystok,  knight,  William  Pudscy,  knight, 
Westminster.  William  Cla.xton,  esquire,  Robert  Rodcs  and  John  Herbotell  to  eiKjuiro 
what  lands  Roger  Thornton,  esquire,  deceased,  tenant  in  chief,  held  in  the 
county  of  Northuinl)eihaul  and  what  they  are  worth  and  who  is  his  heir 
and  to  take  them  into  the  king's  hands. 


1471.  Membrane  20d. 

Nov.  14.       Commission  to  John  Cheyny,  Thomas  Prut,  Thomas  Dahimare,  Thomas 
Westuiiuster.  Kyngston  and  Robert  Quy(lhanq)ton,  mayor  of  Redyng,  to  arrest  John 
Alisuunder  of  Redyng  aud  Nicholas  Evesham  of  Redyng  aud  bring  them 
before  the  king  and  council. 

1472.  Membrane  \8d. 

Feb.  20.  Commission  of  oyer  aud  terminer  to  the  king's  brothers  George,  duke 
Westmiuster.  of  Clarence,  and  Richard,  duke  of  Gloucester,  the  king's  kinsmen  John, 
duke  of  Norfolk,  John,  duke  of  Suilblk,  and  Henry,  earl  of  Essex,  and 
William  Burgheliier,  kni;^lit,  John  Dynliam  of  Dynham,  knight,  Walter 
Blount  of  Mount  joy,  knight,  Thomas  Bryan,  William  Lakcn,  Thomas 
Mongomcry,  knight,  Thomas  Tyrell,  knight,  Walter  Writtell,  John  Greue 
and  John  Ingoldesby  touching  certain  treasons,  insurrections,  rebellions, 
felonies,  riols  and  other  onVnces  committed  by  Thomas   Veer  laic  of 


318 


CALENDAR  OF  PATENT  ROLLS. 


1472.  Membrane  18c? — cont. 

rieii^^ham  Castell,  co.  Essex,  knight,  John  Darcy  late  of  Tolshuut  Darcy, 
CO.  Essex,  esquire,  Nicholas  Gascoign  late  of  Sundrysshe,  co.  Kent,  esquire, 
William  Eenbury  of  Takeley,  co.  Essex,  '  gentilman,'  John  Cumberland 
late  of  Donuham,  eo.  Essex,  '  yomau,'  John  Quyxley  late  of  Wyvenhoo, 
CO.  Essex,  the  elder,  'yoman,'  John  Melbourn  of  Wyvenhoo,  'shypmau,' 
Thomas  Melbouni  of  Wyvenho,  'shipman,'  Giles  Porter  of  Wyvenhoo, 
'yoman,'  John  Welde  of  Wyvenhoo,  'yoman,'  Simon  Weye  of  Wyvenho, 
'yoraan,*  Peter  Coo  of  Wyvenho,  'yoman,'  John  Aiyche  of  Wyvenhoo  the 
younger,  'yoman,'  John  Sterlyng  of  Coksale,  co.  Essex,  '  wever,'  John 
Yardeley  of  Thakstede,  co.  Essex,  'yoman,'  William  Hall  of  Ipswich, 
CO.  Suffolk,  ' yoman,' John  Best  of  Colchestre,  co.  Essex,  'yoman,' John 
Barker  of  Colchestre,  'yoman,'  Thomas  Clerk  of  Colchestre,  'yoman,'  John 
Segrym  of  Estdonylaud,  co.  Essex,  '  yoman,'  Robert  Porter  of  Estdouiland, 
'  yoman,'  Stephen  Meye  of  Earl's  Colne,  co.  Essex,  'yomau,'  Thomas  Meyre 
of  Earl's  Colne, '  yoman,'  Thomas  Boweman  of  Branktre,  co.  Essex, '  yoman,' 
John  Drewe  of  Earl's  Colne, '  yoman,'  and  Andrew  Frenshman  of  Hengham 
at  the  Castle, 'yoman.'  By  K. 

Membrasb  Ibd. 

'Jan.  24.  Commission  to  the  king's  kinsman  William,  earl  of  Arundel,  Thomas 
Westminster.  Arundell  of  Matravers,  knight,  Maurice  Berkeley,  knight, Edward  Berkeley, 
John  Dudley,  Thomas  Pouude  and  John  Sorell  to  take  the  muster  of  the  men 
at  arms  and  archers  of  an  armed  force  with  which  the  king  has  ordered 
John  Cheyne,  esquire  of  the  body,  to  go  to  sea  for  the  safe  custody  of  the 
same  and  the  resistance  of  the  king's  enemies,  and  also  of  the  master 
mariners  of  the  ships  for  their  conduct. 

Membrane  \\d. 

Commission  to  William  Wyngfeld,  esquire,  William  Cliarlessey,  esquire, 
and  Alan  Forster,  on  complaint  by  Stephen  Dryver  that  -when  he  was  at 
anchor  in  the  port  of  Orwell  in  a  carvel  laden  with  goods  and  merchandise 
to  the  value  of  247/.,  the  customs  having  been  duly  paid,  one  Robert  Baldry, 
master  of  a  carvel  of  war  of  which  John  Est  of  Sandwich  was  owner  and 
victualler,  and  tlic  soldiers  in  the  same,  hired  by  the  inhabitants  of  the  sea 
coast  there  for  the  safety  of  the  fishermen  at  sea  for  the  season,  came  upon 
him  about  the  tenth  hour  on  10  Seplembcr  last  at  night  and  assaulted  him 
and  divers  of  his  society  and  carried  away  the  said  carvel  and  goods,  to 
arrest  the  said  John  and  Robert  and  Edmund  Porter  alias  Morys,  William 
Halle  and  William  Cartour,  soldiers  of  the  carvel,  and  imprison  them  until 
they  make  due  restitution. 

Membrane  lOd. 

Feb.  5.  Commission  to  John  Nesfeld,  esquire,  Robert  Nesfeld  and  William 
Wcstiiiinsttr.  Willcsthorpe  to  arrest  Richard  Couche  of  Godestre,  co.  Essex,  '  lius- 
bondman,'  John  Grawe  of  Godestre,  '  husbondman,'  John  Marion  of 
Godestre,'  husbondman,'  Richard  Cousyn  of  Godestre,  'husbondman,'  John 
Chalk  of  Godestre,  '  husbondman,'  John  Pole  of  Godestre,  '  husbondman,' 
John  Panyote  of  Aythorpe  Rodyng,  co.  Essex,  'husbondman,'  Thomas 
Eylmyn  of  Godestre,  'laborer,'  and  John  Typpeswayne  of  Godestre, 
'  husbondman,'  and  bring  them  before  the  king  in  Chancery. 

Feb.  10.        The  king  lately  by  letters  patent  (see  p.  317)  appointed  William,  carl  of 
Westminster.  Arundel,  lieutenant  of  Dover  castle  and  governor  of  the  Cinque  Ports, 
Robert  Cok,  mayor  of  Sandwich,  Edward  Skelton,  serjearit  at  arms,  William 
Fundi,  John  Colic,  John  Waskeff,  John  Saman  and  the  bailiff  of  Sandwich 
to  enquire  into  the  capture  of  a  carvel  of  Domyugo  Demascata,  John 


Feb.  18. 
■\Vtstniiiister. 


11  EDWARD  iV.— Part  II. 


319 


14,72.  Membrane  \0d — cont. 

Dciuascata  and  Jolin  Garco,  merchants  of  Spain,  and  tho  said  Edward  lias 
returned  that  llicliard  Gyll'ord,  Tiiomas  Cok,  and  John  Stercson,  victuaUers 
of  the  ship  called  la  Mari/e  Welfare,  wero  the  captors  of  the  carvel,  and 
confessed  to  tlio  capture  and  the  said  Thomas  and  Jolm  and  one  John 
Chillesworth  offered  satisfaction  to  the  sum  of  G/.  ai)icce  and  tiie  gear  of 
the  carvel  was  in  the  lious,;  of  one  Fetherston  of  Sandwich,  whose  wife 
promised  restitution,  and  that  he  has  put  tho  said  Domynggo  in  full 
possession  of  the  carvel  in  the  jiort  of  Sandwich.  Tlie  king  accordingly 
hereby  appoints  tho  abovo  and  Richard  Cheldesworth,  John  Westciitf", 
John  Swan  and  Pety  John  to  restore  the  said  18/.  and  gear  to  the  said 
Domynggo,  John  and  John  and  to  enquire  into  whoso  hands  the  residue 
of  tho  wines,  goods  and  merchandise  came  and  to  cause  restitution  of  the 
same  or  their  true  value  and  to  arrest  and  imprison  the  offenders  until  due 
restitution  be  made. 

Membrane  9d. 

Commission  to  William  Lakeu,  John  Willoughby,  knight,  Robert 
Willoughby,  knight,  Thomas  Gray,  Jolm  Barctt,  John  Whittokcsmedo, 
Philip  ftlorgan  and  Roland  Banaster  to  enquire  into  certain  trespasses,  riots 
and  olTences  committed  bj  Edward  llungerfold  and  John  Blake  against 
John  Criklade  in  the  county  of  Wilts. 


Feb.  12. 

Westminster. 


147 1.  Membrane  8d. 

Nov.  IG.  Commi.ssion  to  the  bailiffs  and  constables  of  the  towns  of  Fulkstonc,  Ryo 
Westminster,  and  Hit!),  co.  Kent,  and  William  Batemau  to  enquire  into  tho  complaint  of 
Martin  do  Autiaga  of  Bilbowe  in  Spain  tliat  when  relying  on  the  truces 
between  the  king  aiid  his  kinsman  the  king  of  Castile  and  Leon  on  2G 
December  last,  he  was  sailing  to  Loudon  in  a  ship  of  Spain  called  Saynt 
Barthelineicc  laden  with  wines  and  other  merchandise  he  was  seized  by 
Robert  Frenche  and  Tlionias  Strete  and  other  pirates  in  a  sliip  of  England 
called  the  bote  of  Folkston,  of  which  the  said  Robert  and  Thomas  were 
masters,  and  despoiled  of  the  ship  and  gear  and  wines  to  the  value  of  533/., 
and  to  seize  the  .ihip  and  wines  and  put  tliem  in  safe  custody  and  arrest  the 
said  Robert  and  Thomas  and  bring  them  before  the  king  in  Chancery. 

Nov.  22.  Commission  to  Edward  Skelton,  king's  Serjeant  at  arm.'J,  William  Fenncll, 
Westminster.  John  Colle,  John  Waskoff  and  Jolm  Savan  to  cnciuire  into  the  complaint  of 
Domyngo  Dam.ascata,  John  D;iniascata  and  John  Ga/ce,  merchants  of 
Spain,  tliat  when  relying  on  the  truces  between  the  king  and  his  kinsman 
the  king  of  Castile  and  Leon  on  18  October,  10  Edward  IV.  they  were 
sailing  to  Sandwich  in  a  carvel  of  Spain  called  la  Marie  Ic  Kcyte  of  the 
burthen  of  04  tuns,  laden  with  wines  and  other  goods  and  merchandise,  they 
wore  taken  by  certain  pirate  lieges  of  tho  king  in  a  ship  of  England  called 
h  Marye  JVelfare  of  which  Robert  Teyge  was  then  master,  victualled  by 
Richard  Robyns,  Henry  Stcdo  and  Thomas  Cokke,  and  despoiled  of  the 
said  ship  and  its  gear  and  tho  said  wines,  goods  and  merchandise  to  the 
value  of  420/.,  and  to  seize  the  .said  sliip,  wines,  goods  and  merchandise  and 
put  tliem  in  safe-custody  and  arrest  tho  offenders  and  bring  them  before  the 
king  in  Chancery. 


320 


12  EDWARD  IV.— Part  I. 


IIembrane  29. 

Pardons  of  outlawry  to  the  following  : — 

Richai'd  Eobertes  alias  Poort  of  Bristol,  '  fysshemonger,'  for  not 
appearing  before  Robert  Danby  and  his  fellows,  late  justices  of  (he 
Bench,  to  answer  Nicholas  Warynges  touching  a  debt  of  20  marks, 
he  having  surrendered  to  the  Flete  prison,  as  Thomas  Bryan,  chief 
justice  of  the  Bench,  has  certified.  Surrey. 

John  Frend  late  of  Rolleston,  co.  Lincoln,  '  yoman,'  for  not  appearing 
to  answer  John  Elryngton,  '  gentilman,'  touching  a  debt  of  40^. 

Middlesex. 

Thomas  Staynfeld  of  BuUyngbroke,  co.  Lincoln,  '  yoman,'  for  not 
appearing  to  answer  John  Elryngton,  '  gentilman,'  touching  a  debt 
of  iOl.  Middlesex. 

William  Gardyner  of  Bryggewater,  co.  Somerset,  '  chapman,'  for  not 
appearing  to  answer  Robert  Barley,  citizen  and  mercer  of  London, 
touching  a  debt  of  13^.  13s.  4f7.        •  London. 

John  Felson  late  of  Great  Bourton,  co.  Oxford,  '  husbondm.an,'  for  not 
appearing  to  answer  Richard  Calcote  touching  a  trespass.  Oxford. 

Margaret  Lee  late  of  York,  widow,  alias  Margaret  Bedford  late  of 
London,  widow,  late  the  wife  of  John  Lee  and  formerly  the  wife  of 
Richard  Bedford,  for  not  appearing  to  answer  John  CroAvclierd  of 
London,  '  blaksmyth,'  Thomas  Gill,  'gentilman,'  William  Grene, 
'  gentilman,'  and  George  Scalby,  touching  a  debt  of  40  marks. 

Middlesex. 

John  Fynauuce  late  of  Sutton  in  the  Isle  of  Ely,  co.  Cambridge, 
'gentilman,'  for  not  appearing  to  answer  John  Candeler  touching  a 
debt  of  40s.  Cambridge. 

John  Mylys  late  of  Stoke  by  Neylond,  co.  Suffolk,  *  plomer,'  for  not 
appearing  before  the  justices  of  the  Bench  to  answer  a  plea  that  he 
render  4  marks  to  William  Thweytes,  William  Rodelond,  chaplain, 
Richard  Herward  and  Walter  Smalbergh,  executors  of  the  will  of 
Henry  Sethyng,  master  of  the  college  of  Sudbury,  co.  Suffolk. 

Suffolk. 

John  Walsshe  late  of  Olvestou,  co.  Gloucester,  esquire,  alias  late  of 
Bristol,  'marchaunt,'  for  not  appearing  before  Robert  Danby  and  his 
fellows,  late  justices  of  the  Bench,  to  answer  Richard  Fluwet  of 
Pensford,  co.  Somerset,  '  touker/  touching  a  debt  of  65*, 

Bristol. 

IIembrane  28. 

William  Neweman,  citizen  and  mercer  of  London,  for  not  appearing  to 
answer  John  Catesby,  '  gentilman,'  and  John  Senycle,  citizen  and 
'  liaberdassher '  of  London,  touching  a  debt  of  8/.  and  John  Byl- 
lyngton,  citizen  and  grocer  of  London,  John  Wendy,  citizen  and 
mercer  of  London,  William  Hill  and  Edmund  Bettys,  citizen  and 
mercer  of  London,  touching  debts  of  40/.,  9/.,  18/.  12*.  4d.  and  22/. 
respectively.  Middlesex.  London. 

Roger  Waleyslate  of  Preston,  co.  Hertford, '  yoman,'  for  not  appearing 
to  answer  Nicholas  Morley,  esquire,  touching  a  debt  of  10/. 

Hertford. 


12  EDWARD  IV.— Part  I. 


321 


1472.  Membrane  28 — cont. 

June  17.  Alan  Gayler  late  of  Rokynge,  co.  Keut,  *  husbondman,'  for  not 

Westminster.  appearing  to  answer  a  plea  that  he  render  5  marks  to  William  Gace, 

chaplain,  executor  of  the  will  of  Stephen  Slegge,  esiiuire.  London. 

June  17.  John  Peraunt  late  of  Stanford  Mounfychet,  co.  Essex,  '  yoman,' for 

Westminster.  not  appearing  to  answer  Henry,  earl  of  Essex,  touching  a  debt  of 

405.  Essex. 

Robert  Mason  late  of  White  Notley,  co.  Essex, '  husbondman,'  for  not 
appearing  to  answer  a  plea  that  he  render  .33/.  Ov.  ^d.  to  John  Yong 
the  younger,  citizen  and  mercer  of  London,  and  Agnes  his  wife, 
executrix  of  tlie  will  of  Philip  Howell,  late  citizen  and  mercer  of 
London.  Essex. 

J une  4.  Thomas  Hyrne  of  Alyngton,  co.  Lincoln,  '  husbondman,'  for  not  appear- 

Westminster.  ing  to  answer  Richard  Willughby,  esquire,  touching  a  debt  of  60.v. 

Nottingham. 

June  If).  John  atte  Brigge  alias  John  Briggc  of  Northtauton,  co.  Devon, 

Westminster.  '  husbondman,'  alias  'yoman,'  for  not  appearing  before  John  Prysot 

and  his  fellows,  justices  of  the  Bench  of  the  late  king,  to  answer 
Walter  Prewe  touching  a  trespass  and  Robert  Cambon  toucliing  a 
trespass.  Devon. 
June  20.  Stephen  Pylbergh,  parson  of  the  parisli  church  of  Mcsedeu,  co.  Hert- 

Westmiuster.  ford,  for  not  appearing  before  the  justices  of  the  Bench  to  answer 

Thomas  Grauuger  of  London,  clerk,  touching  a  debt  of  71. 

London. 

June  23.  .John  Parmenter  of  Herksted,  co.  Suffolk,  '  chapman,' for  not  appear- 

Westmiuster.  ing  before  Ro1)crt  Dauby  and  his  fellows,  late  justices  of  the  Bench, 

to  answer  William  Lok,  citizen  and  mercer  of  London,  touching  a 
debt  of  8/.  12*.  8«/.        "  London. 
June  2(1.  John  Algorc  late  of  Haveryng,  co.  Essex,  *  husbondman,'  for  not 

vVestmiiister.  appearing    to  answer  Simon  Eriggemau,  citizen  and  'fuller'  of 

London,  touching  a  debt  of  40y.  London. 
.June  30.  George  Keell  late  of  Mayryng,  oo.  Lincoln,  '  cliai)iain,'  for  not  appear- 

Westmiuster.  ing  to  answer  John  Eiryngton  touching  a  debt  of  lUO*. 

Middlesex. 

July  1.  Peter  Bcrwykc  of  Colcbostre,  co.  Essex,  'yoman,'  for  not  appearing  fo 

Westminster.  answer  Richard  Cok,  grocer  of  London,  alias  of  lladlcgli,  c(). 

Suffolk,  '  clotliemakcr,'  toucliing  a  debt  of  At.  lOs.  Sulfolk. 

June  12.  Thomas  Daunscr  of  Hclay  Parke,  co.  York,  'yoman,'  for  not  appcar- 

Westmiuster.  ing  to  answer  a  plea  of  Katharine  late  the  wife  of  Ricliaid  Percy, 

knight,  that  he  Avilli  Chri8toi)her  Lofthous,  prior  of  the  house  of 
St.  John  the  Evangcli.st,  Helay  Parke,  and  AVillium  Lofthous  of 
llelay  Parke,  chaplain,  carried  off  a  horse,  four  cows  and  KM)  sheep 
of  hers,  Avorth  20  marks,  found  at  Walton,  co.  York,  and  chattels 
there.  City  of  York. 

William  Lofthous  for  the  same.  City  of  York. 

July  6.  Edith  Clerk  late  of  Salisbury,  co.  Wilt?,  widoAV,  for  not  ajipearing 

Westminster.  before  the  justices  of  the  Bench  to  answer  a  plea  that  siie  render 

chattels  to  the  value  of  30/.  and    a   coffer   containing  cliaitei's, 
writings  and  other  muniments  to  Thomas  Gay  the  younger  and 
Katharine  his  wife.  London. 
June  20.  John  Snoryng  lo.te  of  London,  '  fy.sshmonger,'  for  not  appearing  before 

Westminster.  Rol)ort  Danby  and  his  fellows,  late  justices  of  the  Bench,  to  answer 

Thomas  Stoughton,  citizen  and  '  fysshmcngtr  '  of  Loudon,  touching 
tt  debt  of  50/.  London. 


y  96186. 


322 


CALENDAR  OF  PATENT  ROLLS. 


1472.  Membrane  28 — cont. 

July  6.  Thomas  Williamson  alias  Willyamson,  citizen  and  mercer  of  London, 

Westminster.  for  not  appearing  to  answer  Bartliolomew  Schiatis,  merchant  of 

Lucaj  and  Thomas  Bledlowe,  citizen  and  grocer  of  London,  touching 
debts  of        2Qd.  and  26/.  respectively.  London. 

July  10.  Henry  Malverno  late  of  Asshehill,  co.  Norfolk,  '  bocher,'  administrator 

AVestraiuster.  of  the  goods  of  John  Oldeman,  who  died  intestate,  for  not  appearing 

to  answer  a  plea  that  he  render  11.  16*.  4rf.  to  William  Maryner. 

Middlesex. 

June  26.  William  Hoo  late  of  Aspeden,  co.  Hertford,  *  husbondman,'  for  not 

Westminster.  appearing  to  answer  a  plea  of  Nicholas  Morley,  esquire,  that  he 

render  an  account  for  the  time  when  he  was  his  I'eceiver. 

Sussex. 

July  10.  Richard  Thelnetham,  late  of  London,  '  gentilman,'  for  not  appearing 

Westminster.  befor«  John  Frisot  and  his  fellows,  justices  of  the  Bench  of  the  late 

king,  to  answer  William  Knot  touching  a  debt  of  60*.  London. 

July  11.  William  Geyton,  late  of  Shuldbam,  co.  Norfolk,  '  husbondman,'  for  not 

Westminster.  appearing  before  Robert  Danby  and  his  fellows,  late  justices  of  the 

Bench,  to  answer  Thomas  Greneley,  clerk,  touching  a  debt  of  15/. 

Norfolk. 

Jidy  11.  John  Stanley  of  Dodyngton  Pygot,  co.  Lincoln,  esquire,  and  EUzabeth 

Westminster.  his  wife,  for  not  appearing  before  the  justices  of  the  Bench  to 

answer  Thomas  Hayton  touching  a  debt  of  8  marks.  London. 


Membrane  27. 

July  8.  Henry  Bedyll  of  Bromley,  co.  Kent,  '  husbondman,'  and  Margaret  his 

Westminster.  wife,  for  not  appearing  before  Robert  Dauby  and  his  fellows,  late 

juistices  of  the  Bench,  to  answer  Isabel  Cokefeld  touching  a  debt  of 
of  40s.  Surrey. 

Oct,  13.  John  Barette  late  of  Outwell,  co.  Norfolk,  '  bruer,' for  not  appearing 

Westminster.  before  the  justices  of  the  Bench  to  answer  William  Sparowe  of 

Northwolde,  co.  Norfolk,  touching  a  debt  of  20/.  Noi  folk. 

Oct.  16.  William  Curteys  late  of  lOhiey,  co.  Buckingham,  '  yoman,'  for  not 

Westmiustcr.  appearing  to  answer  John  Hayll  the  elder  of  Stonystratford,  co. 

Buckingham,  touching  a  debt  of  11.  Middlesex. 

John  Smyth  late  of  Olney,  '  yoman,'  for  the  same.  Middlesex. 

Oct.  17.  Thomas  Palmer  late  of  Abrigge,  co.  Essex,  *  chapman,'  for  not  appearing 

Westminster.  before  Robert  Danby  and  his  fellows,  late  justices  of  the  Bench,  to 

answer  Isabel  Lyon,  widow,  touching  a  debt  of  40a'.  London. 

Oct.  22.  John  Gysyll  of  Waynflete,  co.  Lincoln,  mariner,  alias  John  Gysell, 

Westminster.  '  shipman,'  for  not  appearing  before  Richard  Neuton  and  his  fellows, 

justices  of  the  Bench  of  the  late  king,  to  answer  William  Dryng, 
burgess  and  merchant  of  Scardeburgh,  touching  a  debt  of  10  marks, 
and  before  John  Prisot  and  his  fellows,  justices  of  the  Bench  of  the 
late  king,  to  answer  John  Dymmok  and  Thomas  Brese  touching 
debts  of  20/.  and  -lO*.  respectively.  Lincoln  and  York. 

Walter  Hcrvy  of  Huchyn,  co.  Hertford,  '  husbondman,'  for  not 
appearing  before  the  justices  of  the  Bench  to  answer  Robert  Drake 
touching  a  debt  of  54*.  9d.  Hertford. 

Simon  Laurens  of  Pakenham,  co.  Bedford,  '  husbondman,'  for  not 
appearing  before  Robert  Danby  and  his  fellows,  late  justices  of  the 
Bench,  to  answer  John  Teryngliam  the  younger,  esquire,  touching 
a  debt  of  20  marks.  Bedford. 


12  EDWARD  IV.— Fart  I. 


323 


Membrane  27 — cont. 
John  Mole  late  of  Hembury  by  Westbury,  co.  Gloucester,  'husbond- 
mau,'  for  not  appearing  to  answer  a  plea  that  he  render  chattels  to 
the  value  of  4  marks  to  Thomas  Everard.  Gloucester. 

Eobert  Bayley  of  Grynleton,  co.  York,  '  husbondman,'  for  not 
appearing  before  the  justices  of  the  Bench  to  answer  Peter  Benet 
touching  a  debt  of  20/.  York. 

William  Bylmyn  late  of  London,  merchant,  alias  citizen  and  *  ire- 
monger  '  of  London,  for  not  appearing  before  John  Prysot  and  his 
fellows,  justices  of  the  Bench  of  the  late  king,  to  answer  Edward, 
eldest  son  of  the  late  king,  prince  of  Wales,  duke  of  Ciornwall  and 
earl  of  Chester,  touching  a  debt  of  4/.  and  Thomas  Barker  of 
Bishop's  Lynn,  '  mercer,'  and  Robert  Flynton  alias  Flynt  of  Snetes- 
ham,  '  mercer,'  touching  a  debt  of  30/.  Norfolk. 

John  Fedyon  of  Horham,  co.  Suffolk,  '  skynner,*  for  not  appearing 
before  Richard  Neuton  and  his  fellows,  justices  of  the  Bench  of  the 
late   king,   to   answer  Thomas   Faukoner,  citizen   of  Norwich, 

*  skynner,'  alias  '  polter,'  touching  a  debt  of  60*.  Norwich. 

John  Balached  late  of  Chepyngtoryton,  co.  Devon,  'cordener,'  executor 
of  the  will  of  Richard  White,  '  geutilman,'  for  not  appearing  bclore 
the  justices  of  the  Bench  to  answer  a  plea  that  he  render  GO*,  to 
Thomas  Gay,  citizen  and  tailor  of  London,  alias  'citysayn  of 
London.*  London. 

Richard  Tctford  of  Spaldyng,  co.  Lincoln,  '  husbondman,'  for  not 
appearing  before  Robert  Danby,  knight,  and  his  fellows,  late 
justices  of  the  Bench,  to  answer  John  Wculok,  knight,  alius  lord 
of  Wenlok,  touching  two  debts  of  40/.  Bedford. 

John  Slonys  late  of  London,  'skynner,'  for  not  ajipearing  before 
the  king  to  answer  Richard  Scarburgb,  clerk,  touching  a  trespjiss, 

Surrey. 

John  Monnyng  late  of  Iladlcgh,  co.  Suffolk,  '  clothemaker,'  for  not 
appearing  before  Robert  Danby  and  his  fellows,  lato  justices  of  the 
Bench,  to  answer  a  jjlca  that  he  render  his  account  to  Robert 
Hull,  merchant  of  London,  for  the  time  when  he  was  liis  baililf  in 
London  and  receiver.  London. 

Robert  Shepherd  of  Barton  in  Hcnnicrssli,  co.  Warwick,  '  liusl)ond- 
man,'  lor  not  appearing  to  answer  William  I5ory  and  IMargaret  his 
wife  touching  a  trespass  counnittud  l)y  him  and  Phili|)  Cainiyng  of 
Chcpyngnorton,  co.  Oxford,  '  husbondman,'  Thomas  Ker.seman  lale 
of  Scresden,  co.  Warwick,  cha|)lain,  and  Robert  Grynder  of  Seresden, 
'husbondman,'  with  John   Shepherd  of   Barton   in  Henmerssb, 

*  Imsbondman,'  and  Robert  Stokes  of  Chcpyngnorton,  '  chajjuiiin.' 

Warwick. 

Stephen  Williamson  of  Lellcy,  co.  York,  '  husbondman,'  for  not 
appearing  to  answer  a  plea  that  be  n-nder  7/.  Cy.  8</.  to  Master 
John  Caldbek,  doctor  of  divinity,  Thomas  Langto  of  llesilwoil, 
'  chaplain,'  Christopher  Dobley,  chaplain,  and  John  York,  chaplain, 
executors  of  the  will  of  Thomas  Ilowren,  priest,  prebendary  of 
Holme  Archiepiscopi  in  the  cathedral  church  of  York. 

City  of  York. 

William  Robynson  late  of  Wythorne  Wyke,  co.  York,  clerk,  alias 
chajdain,  for  the  same.  City  of  York. 

Ranulph  Wynde  of  Wythornewyke,  '  husbondman,'  for  the  same. 

City  of  York. 
X  2 


324 


CALENDAR  OF  PATENT  ROLLS. 


1472. 

Oct.  29. 
WestmiusttT. 

Oct.  30. 
Westminster. 

Oct.  10. 
Westmiusler. 


Membrane  27 — cont. 
John  Est  late  of  Marou,  co.  Lincoln,  '  yoman,'  for  not  appearing  to 
answer  John  Elryngton,  *  gentilman,'  touching  a  debt  of  40^. 

Lincoln. 

William  Goldsmyth  late  of  Tenam,  co.  Kent,  'yoman,'  for  not 
appearing  before  the  justices  of  the  Bench  to  answer  William 
Colyngborne,  esquire,  touching  a  trespass.  Middlesex. 

Thomas  Halle  late  of  Westbury  on  Trymme,  co.  Gloucester,  '  gentil- 
man,' for  not  appearing  before  Robert  Dauby  and  his  fellow.s,  late 
justices  of  the  Bench,  to  answer  John  Halle  touching  a  trespass 
committed  by  him  and  John  Water  of  Bristol,  'bocher.'  Sussex. 


Membrane  26. 

May  10.  Grant  for  life  to  Peter  Curteis,  in  lieu  of  a  grant  thereof  to  him  by  letters 
Westuiinstcr.  patent  dated  17  January  last,  surrendered  because  invalid,  of  the  office  of 
keeper  of  the  king's  beds  and  cloths  within  the  palace  of  Westminster,  with 
a  groom  under  him,  receiving  for  their  wages  8c?.  daily  from  Michaelmas 
last  as  John  Heyer  had  in  the  year  13  Richai'd  II.  from  the  farm  of  the 
city  of  Winchester.  By  p.s. 


Oct.  G. 
WcstmiDSter. 

Oct.  12. 
Wcstmi'ustcr. 


Oct.  13. 

Westminster. 


Nov.  12. 
Westminster. 


Oct.  28. 
Westminster. 


Oct.  10. 
Westminster. 

Nov.  13. 
Westminster. 


Nov.  IG. 
Westminster, 


Membrane  24. 
Pardons  of  outlawry  as  above  to  the  following  : — 

John  Wyllyam,  alias  William,  of  Southampton,  merchant,  for  not 
appearing  before  the  justices  of  the  Bench  to  answer  Thomas 
Hexstall  touching  a  debt  of  40/.  London. 
John  Burnet  of  Aukebargh,  eo.  Lincoln,  '  yoman,'  for  not  appearing 
before  Robert  Danby  and  his  fellows,  iate  justices  of  the  Bench,  to 
answer  Marjory,  lady  of  Roos,  touching  a  tlebt  of  6/.  Suffolk. 

William~Dryver  late  of  Nedehammarket,  co.  Suffolk,  '  tanner,' for  not 
appearing  to  answer  John  Cornyssh  the  elder,  citizen  and  saddler  of 
London,  John  Cornyssh  the  younger,  citizen  and  saddler  of  London, 
and  Richard  Cornyssh,  *  gentilman,'  touching  a  debt  of  20/. 

London. 

John  Cumwell  of  the  parish  of  Kelveden,  co.  Essex,  the  elder, '  taillour,' 
for  not  aj^pearing  before  the  king  to  answer  John  Thurlewynd  touch- 
ing a  trespass  committed  by  him  and  John  Cumwell  of  Kelveden 
the  younger,  '  laborer,'  and  Thomas  Porter  of  Kelveden,  'glover.' 

Essex. 

John  Simond  of  Braynford,  co.  Middlesex,  '  husbondman,'  alias  of 
Estbrayuford  alias  of  New  Braynford  alias  of  Old  Braynford, 
'yoman,' for  not  appearing  before  Robert  Dauby  and  his  fellows, 
late  justices  of  the  Bench,  to  answer  Thomas  Hayton  and  Robert 
Colyns,  citizen  and  'cotFrer'  of  London,  touching  debts  of  20  marks 
and  5  marks  respectively.  Middlesex. 

John  Davy  of  Topsham,  co.  Devon,  '  husbondman,'  for  not  appearing 
to  answer  William  Baker  touching  a  debt  of  5  marks,  20d,  Devon. 

William  Chywarton  late  of  Chywarton  in  the  parish  of  St.  Peran  in 
Uthno,  CO.  Cornwall,  '  yoman,'  for  not  appearing  before  the  king  to 
answer  pleas  of  trespass  of  Robert  Cowelyng  and  Henry  Cowelyng. 

Cornwall. 

William  Malyn  late  of  Stokecoursy,  co  Somerset,  '  tayllour,' for  not 
appearing  to  answer  Thomas  Burdet,  esquire,  touching  a  trespass. 

Warwick 


12  EDWAED  IV.— Part  I, 


325 


Membrane  24 — cont. 

Richard  Joseph  late  of  Sandewich,  co.  Kent,  'vyntener,'  for  not 
appearing  before  Robert  Danby  and  his  fellows,  late  justices  of  the 
Bench,  to  answer  Thomas  Dykson,  esquire,  touching  a  debt  of  40/. 

London. 

Walter  Pr'eeste  of  Rodmershaui,  co.  Kent,  '  laborer,'  for  not  appearing 
to  answer  William  Robessart  touching  a  trespass,  Kent. 

Thomas  Julie  of  Adesham,  co.  Kent,  *  husbondman,'  for  not  appearing 
to  answer  John  Danvers,  clerk,  touching  a  debt  of  100/. 

Middlesex. 

Giles  Roos  late  of  Westminster,  co.  Middlesex,  '  yoman,'  for  not 
appearing  before  the  justices  of  thcBench  to  answer  John  Davyson 
touching  a  ti  espass  committed  by  him  and  William  Morland  late  of 
Westminster,  clerk,  Robert  Oldham  late  of  Westminster,  '  gentilman,' 
John  Walter  late  of  Westminster,  clerk,  William  Kelot  late  of 
Westminster,  clerk,  and  John  Stepneth,  late  of  London,  '  gentilman.' 

Middlesex. 

William  Elyuor  of  Bishop's  Ilatfeld,  co.  Hertford,  '  husbondman,'  for 
not  appearing  before  Robert  Danby  and  his  fellows,  late  justices  of 
the  Bunch,  to  answer  Henry  Baker  of  London,  administrator  of  the 
goods  of  Richard  Kyrkeby,  citizen  and  grocer  of  Loudon,  who  died 
intestate,  touching  the  detention  of  18/.  ll*.  3r/.  Hertford. 

.John  Tailour  of  Walden,  co.  Essex,  '  fysslier,'  for  not  appearing  I)efore 
the  justices  of  the  Bench  to  answer  Robert  Damey,  burgess  of 
Cambridge,  touching  a  debt  of  4/.  Cambridge. 

Thomas  Nabbe  of  Welles,  co.  Somerset,  '  chapman,'  for  not  appearing 
to  answer  Thomas  Nyche,  citizen  and  mercer  of  London,  touching  a 
debt  of  108*.  London. 

John  Kyrton  late  of  Rochester,  co.  Kent,  'osteler,'  alias  lato  clerk  of 
the  king's  hall,  alias  citizen  and  fishmonger  of  London,  lor  not 
appearing  to  answer  Sir  Thomas  Wodo,  chaplain,  executor  of  the 
will  of  Robert  Tooke,  citizen  and  'iremonger'  of  London,  John 
Barneweil  alias  Berncwell,  citizen  and  fishmonger  of  London, 
Stephen  Reygate,  citizen  and  '  shipwryght '  of  London,  alias  '  wyne- 
drawer,'and  William  Burgh,  citizen  and  brewer  of  London,  touching 
debts  of  13/.  65.  Qd.,  10/.,  6.3s.  Ad.  and  40*.  respectively.  London, 

Richard  Walet  alias  Waleys  late  of  Bexhill,  co.  Kent,  '  bocher,'  for 
not  appearing  before  Robert  Danby  and  his  fellows,  late  justices  of 
the  Bench,  to  answer  Robert  Bystrete  touching  a  debt  of  40*. 

Sussex, 

John  Wellyslate  of  the  city  of  Winchester,  co.  Southampton,  'gentyl- 
nian,'  for  not  appearing  before  the  justices  of  the  Bench  to  answer 
William  ScAvyster  of  the  city  of  London  touching  a  debt  of 
18/.  17*.  2\d.  London. 

Thomas  Balam  of  Baldoke,  co.  Hertford, '  husbondman,'  alias  '  fyssher,' 
for  not  appearing  to  answer  Robert  Daniay,  burgess  of  Cambridge, 
and  Philip  Spere,  citizen  and  mercer  of  London,  touching  debts  of 
1005.  and  40*.  respectively.  Cambridge.  London. 

Robert  Prymour  late  of  Lonnd,  co.  Suffolk,  '  yoman,'  for  not  appearing 
before  Robert  Danby  and  his  fellows,  late  justices  of  the  Bench,  to 
to  answer  Alice,  duchess  of  SuOblk,  touching  a  debt  of  4/.  Suflblk. 

John  Codde  of  London,  'goldsmyth,'  for  not  appearing  before  the 
justices  of  the  Bench  to  answer  William  Norton  touching  a  trespass. 

Middlesex. 


326 


CALENDAR  OF  PATENT  ROLLS. 


1473. 

Jan.  23. 
Westminster. 


Jan.  27. 
Westminster. 


Jan.  26. 
Westminster. 


Membrane  24 — cont. 

John  Jacobe  of  Plymmouth,  co.  Devon,  '  marcliauut,'  for  not  appearing 
before  John  Prysot  and  his  fellows,  justices  of  the  Bench  of  the  late 
king,  to  answer  John  Facy  and  John  Sayer  alias  Sawyer  of 
Plymmouth, '  marchaunt,'  touching  debts  of  4^.  and  IIZ.  respectively. 

Devon. 

William  Kolot  late  of  Westminster,  oo.  (Middlesex,  clerk,  for  not 
appearing  before  Thomas  Bjyan  and  his  fellows,  justices  of  the 
Bench,  to  answer  John  Davyson  touching  a  trespass.  Middlesex. 

John  Noryson  of  Dysforth  within  the  parish  of  Topclyfe,  co.  York, 
'  yoman,'  for  not  appearing  before  Robert  Danby  and  his  fellows, 
late  justices  of  the  Bench,  to  answer  Master  Richard  Andrewe,  the 
dean,  and  the  chapter  of  the  cathedral  church  of  St.  Peter,  York, 
touching  a  debt  of  66*.  8rf.  City  of  York. 


Jan.  5. 
Westminster. 


Feb.  1. 
Westminster. 


Feb.  4. 

Westminster. 


Jan.  23. 
Westminster. 


Feb.  10. 
Westminster. 


Jan.  33  (sic). 
Westminster. 

Feb.  8. 
Westminster. 


Jan.  23. 
Weftminster, 


Membrane  23. 

William  Caumpe  alias  Campe  of  Stonhara  by  Aspale  aZ«as  Aspastonam, 
CO.  Suffolk,  '  husbondman,'  alias  of  Mykelfeld  alias  Mycfelede,  co. 
Suffolk,  for  not  appearing  before  Richard  Neuton  and  his  fellows, 
justices  of  the  Bench  of  the  late  king,  to  answer  John  Bradwey 
touching  a  debt  of  100s.,  before  John  Prisot  and  his  fellows,  late 
justices  of  the  Bench  of  the  late  king,  to  answer  Thomas  Hunt, 
prior  of  the  church  of  St.  Mary,  Walsyngham,  touching  a  debt  of 
20Z.,  and  before  Robert  Danby  and  his  fellows,  late  justices  of  the 
Bench,  to  answer  Bartholomew  Damyon  and  Thomas  Moleyns, 
'gentilman  '  of  Stoke  touching  debts  of  40#.      Suffolk  and  Norfolk. 

John  Yonge  of  Stoppisle,  co.  Bedford,  '  husbondman,'  for  not  appearing 
before  the  justices  of  the  Bench  to  answer  John,  prior  of  the  canons 
of  Dunstaple,  touching  a  debt  of  80s.  Bedford. 

Walter  Sprot  of  Causwey,  co.  Dorset,  'yoman,'  for  not  appearing 
before  Robert  Danby  and  his  fellows,  late  justices  of  the  Bench,  to 
answer  John  Osmondeston,  clerk,  touching  a  debt  of  61.  2s. 

Dorset. 

Thomas  Milward  of  Stoke  St.  George,  co,  Somerset,  *  husbondman,' 
for  not  appearing  before  John  Prysot  and  his  fellows,  justices  of 
the  Bench  of  the  late  king,  to  answer  John  Gaskyn  touching  a  debt 
of  5  marks.  Somerset. 

William  Pyngyll  late  of  Kyllynghara,  co.  Lincoln,  '  yoman,'  for  not 
appearing  before  Robert  Danby  and  his  fellows,  late  justices  of  the 
Bench,  to  answer  John  Elryngton,  '  gentilman,'  touching  a  debt  of 
5  marks.  Middlesex. 

Robert  Hewat  of  Horle,  co.  Surrey,  '  gentilman,'  for  not  appearing 
before  the  justices  of  the  Bench  to  answer  Richard  Lewekenore,  late 
sheriff  of  Surrey  and  Sussex,  touching  a  debt  of  40/.  Sussex, 

Thomas  Edward  late  of  London,  'gentilman,'  for  not  appearing  to 
answer  William  Clayton,  clerk,  touching  a  debt  of  20/  .  London. 

Robert  Cornewaile  late  of  Oxford,  clerk,  for  not  appearing  in  the 
court  of  the  late  king  to  answer  Nicliolas  Kent  touching  a  trespass. 

Oxford, 

John  Bele  of  Fletemerston,  co.  Buckingham,  'laborer,'  for  not  ap- 
pearing before  Robert  Danby  and  his  fellows,  late  justices  of  the 
Bench,  to  answer  John  Bradshawe  touching  a  trespass. 

Buckingham. 


12  EDWARD  IV.— Part  T. 


327 


1473. 

Feb.  10. 
Westminster. 

Feb.  12. 
Westminster, 


Feb.  13. 

Westminster. 


Feb.  27. 
Westminster. 

Feb.  13. 

Westminster. 


Membrane  23 — cont. 

JohnHille  of  Loughtou,  co.  Essex,  '  husbondman,'  for  not  appearing  to 
answer  Andrew  Whyte  touching  a  trespass.  Essex. 

Robert  Djkson  of  Stanburn,  co.  York,  '  husbandman,'  for  not 
appearing  before  the  justices  of  the  Bench  to  answer  William 
Plumpton,  knight,  touching  a  debt  of  40/.  York. 

William  Holt  late  of  Bourne,  co.  Southampton,  '  chapman,'  for  not 
appearing  to  answer  Richard  Eyerlcy,  citizen  and  mercer  of  London, 
touching  a  debt  of  12/.  London, 

Richard  Wright  late  of  Sahame,  co.  Norfolk,  'yoman,'  for  not 
appearing  to  answer  George  Nevyle,  knight,  touching  a  debt  of 
100*.  Norfolk. 

Thomas  Landawarnek  of  Landawarnek,  co.  Cornwall,  '  gentilman,'  for 
not  appearing  before  Robert  Danby  and  his  fellow.s,  late  justices  of 
the  Bench,  to  answer  a  plea  that  he  render  20/.  to  Richard  Strode 
and  Margaret  his  wife,  executrix  of  the  will  of  Henry  Forfescu, 
late  sheriff  of  Cornwall.  Devon. 

John  Dogcson  alias  Dodson  late  of  Fowey,  co.  Cornwall,  *  gentilman,' 
for  not  appearing  to  answer  Jolin  Martyn,  citizen  and  mercer  of 
London,  touching  a  debt  of  1  marks.  London. 

William  Jackc  llykke  late  of  Seynt  Ye  by  Rensans,  co.  Cornwall, 
'  marcliaiint,'  for  not  appearing  to  answer  a  plea  th.'it  lie  render  -!()/. 
to  .John  (Jlinmpernon,  esquire,  adminislrator  of  the  goods  of  Roger 
Cliampernon,  esquire,  who  died  intestate.  Cornwall. 

John  Ogan  of  London,  '  gentilman,'  son  of  Joan  Ogan  of  London, 
widow,  for  not  appearing  before  the  justices  cif  the  Bench  to  answer 
Thomas  Robyns  touching  a  debt  of  100*.  Middlesex, 


1472.  3fE3fnRANE  22. 

March  10.      Grant  for  life  to  the  king's  servant  John  llulcofe,  esquire,  and  his  assigns 
Westminster,  of  the  manor  of  Wavenden,  co.  Buckingham,  late  of  Hugh  Ilarnngc, 
deceased,  extended  at  the  value  of  71.  yearly,  to  hold  from  Micii.aelinas  last 
without  rendering  any  account.  By  p.s. 

March  16.      General  pardon  to  Henry  Clifford,  gentleman,  son  and  iioir  of  John 
Wtstniinstcr.  Clifford,  late  lord  of  Clifford,  and  lieir  of  Henry,  late  lord  of  Vc.«sy, 
deceased,  of  all  offences  committed  by  him  before  13  March.  By  p.s. 

March  22.  Grant,  during  minority,  to  Jaqnetta,  duchess  of  Bedford,  of  the  custody 
Westminster,  of  all  honours,  castles,  lord.ships,  hundreds,  manors,  lauds,  rents,  services, 
reversions,  possessions  and  other  hereditaments  and  knight's  fees,  advowsons 
and  appointments  of  officers  late  of  William  la  Zouclie,  lord  la  Zouche  [and] 
Seymour,  knight,  deceased,  tenant  in  chief  by  knight  service,  and  in  the 
king's  hands  by  reason  of  the  minority  of  .John  his  son  and  lieir,  and  the 
custody  and  marriage  of  the  latter  without  (lis))at'agenient,  the  custody  of 
the  manors  of  Hampton  Meisy  and  Clifton,  co.  Gloucester,  Casteleton  and 
Inmere,  co.  Wilts,  Maidneuton,  Wynfrydc;  I'"gle  and  Shapecombe,  co. 
Dorset,  and  Cornoworthi,  co.  Devon,  exceittod,  and  the  custody  of  the 
manors  of  Braunfcld  and  Little  Houghton,  Bernoghby,  Onley,  Blakcsley 
and  Gretton,  co.  Northampton,  and  all  lands  late  of  William  lord  la  Zouclie, 
father  of  the  said  William,  in  the  towns  of  Norhami)ton  and  Westhadilon, 
CO.  Northampton,  all  lands,  rents,  and  services  in  Diuistaple,  Hellowe  ami 
Edisworth,  co.  Bedford,  and  all  other  lordships,  manors,  lands,  rents,  and 
services  which  Elizabeth,  late  the  wife  of  the  said  William  the  father,  holds 
for  life  in  dower,  on  her  death,  and  the  custody  of  the  reversion  of  all  lauds, 


328 


CALENDAR  OF  PATENT  ROLLS, 


14'72.  Membrane  22 — cont, 

rents  and  services  which  may  descend  to  the  said  heir,  and  so  from  heir  to 
heir  during  minority.  By  p.s. 

April  15.  General  pardon  to  William  Clements  late  of  London,  '  taillor,' aZms 
Westminster,  citizen  and  draper  of  London,  alias  of  South werk,  co.  Surrey,  '  gentilman.' 

By  p.s. 

April  16.        Signification  to  J.  bishop  of  Worcester  of  the  royal  assent  to  the  election 
"Westminster,  of  Dan  William  Farley,  monk  of  the  order  of  St.  Benedict,  as  abbot  of  the 
monastery  of  St.  Peter,  Grloucester,  of  the  same  order.         By  p.s.  [3455.] 

April  17.  General  pardon  to  John  Stubbes  late  of  Macclesfeld,  co.  Chester,  'yoman,' 
"Westminster,  of  all  offences  committed  by  him  before  1  April.  By  p.s. 

April  18.  Grant  in  frank  almoin  to  William  Westbury,  the  provost,  and  the  college 
"Westminster,  of  St.  Mary,  Eton  by  Wyndesore,  of  the  aUen  priory  of  Beggere,  co.  York, 
8Z.  yearly  -which  tl)e  prior  of  Farlegh  used  to  render  to  the  nuns  of 
Martiguy  for  the  farm  and  pension  of  the  manors  of  Welby,  Welleby  and 
Nalbenby,  co.  Lincoln,  and  Slaighteneford  and  Alynton,  co.  Wilts,  and 
which  John  Thommeson,  deceased,  lately  had  for  life  of  the  king's  grant, 
and  the  reversion  of  30/.  yearly  from  the  same  farm  and  pension  which 
Roger  Grandorch,  '  gentilman,'  holds  for  hfe  of  the  king's  grant.       By  p.s. 

May  3.  Grant  for  life  to  John  Hodgeson  from  Michaelmas  last  of  405.  of  silver 
Westminster,  from  the  subsidy  and  ulnage  and  a  moiety  of  the  forfeiture  of  cloth  in  the 
city  and  suburbs  of  York,  the  county  of  York  and  the  town  and  precinct  of 
Kyngeston  on  Hull,  in  lieu  of  a  grant  to  him  of  the  office  of  sealer  of  the 
king's  lordship  of  Wakefold  by  letters  patent  dated  21  November  last, 
surrendered  because  invalid.  By  p.s. 


Membrane  21. 

March  16.  Inspexhmis  and  confirmation  to  William  Berkele,  knight,  lord  of  Berkele, 
Westminster,  and  his  heirs  of  letters  patent  dated  1  March,  12  {sic)  Edward  IV,  being  an 
exem])lification,  at  his  request,  of  the  tenour  of  a  lost  charter  dated  at 
Woodstock,  8  June,  4  EdAvard  III  [  Charter  Roll,  4  Edward  III,  No.  G2], 
inspecting  and  confirming  with  additions  to  Thomas  de  Berkele  and  his 
heirs  the  following  : — 

1.  A  charter  of  Henry  II.  granting  Berkelay  and  Berkelaiharnesso  to 

Robert  son  of  Hard[ing], 

2.  A  charter  dated  at  Roche  Andelys,  18  November,  10  Richard  I,  by 

the  hand  of  Master  Rocelin,  vice-chancellor,  renewing  a  charter 
dated  27  September,  I  Richard  I,  by  the  hand  of  William  de  Longo 
Campo,  the  chancellor,  to  Robert  son  of  Maurice  do  Berkelai  and 
grandson  of  the  al)0ve  Robert. 

3.  A.  charter  dated  at  Westminster,  18  April,  I  John.    [Rotnli  Char- 

tarum,  p.  51.]  For  405.  paid  in  the  hanaper. 

March  27.      Grant  for  life  to  the  king's  servant  Thomas  Marshall  of  the  office  of 
Westiuiuster.  porter  of  the  king's  castle  of  Bamburgh,  co.  Northumberland,  with  the 
accustomed  fees  and  profits,  as  Richard  Crowcestre,  deceased,  had.    By  K. 

March  22.      Mandate  to  all  sheriffs,  m.ayors,  bailiflis,  ministers  and  others  to  arrest 
Westminster,  certain  Augustinian  friars  who  have  rejected  their  habit  and  scoi'ned 
obedience  to  their  superiors  and  wander  about,  and  to  deliver  them  to  their 
superiors  for  castigation.  By  p,s. 

March  28.  Licence  for  the  prior  and  convent  of  the  church  of  St.  Peter,  Gloucestei-, 
Westminster,  to  elect  an  abbot  in  the  place  of  Dau  Richard  Hanley,  last  abbot,  deceased. 

By  p.s. 

March  21.  Grant  for  life  to  the  king's  servitor  Thomas  Gilbert  of  the  manor  or 
Westminster,  lordship  of  Budefeld,  CO.  Gloucester,  which  Richard  Boteler  and  Matilda 


12  EDWARD  IV.— Paet  I. 


329 


1472.  Membrane  21 — cont. 

his  wife  held  for  life  of  the  graat  of  Henry  IV  and  which  came  into  the 
king's  hands  by  force  of  an  act  in  Parliament  at  Westminster,  4  November, 
1  Edward  IV,  and  which  John  Baker,  deceased,  held  for  life  of  the  king's 
grant.  By  p.s. 

March  21.  Whereas  by  an  inquisition  taken  before  Simon  Elrington,  coroner  of  the 
Wcstmiuster.  county  of  Middlesex,  on  the  body  of  John  Alvard,  '  laborer,'  it  was  found 
that  the  said  John,  of  the  age  of  20  years,  at  Hakeney,  co.  Middlesex,  on 
Sunday  before  the  Purification  last  assaulted  his  uncle  Thomas  Alvard  late 
of  Hakenay,  '  carter,'  and  struck  him  on  the  right  hand  with  an  iron  stick 
called  *  a  playn  bill,'  worth  \2d,  and  the  latter  instantly  struck  him  on  the 
head  with  an  iron  stick  called  '  a  pesbill,'  worth  Gd,  giving  him  a  mortal 
blow  of  the  length  of  two  inches,  from  which  he  died,  the  king  hereby 
pardons  the  said  Thomas.  By  p.s. 


Membrane  20. 

April  1.        Grant  during  minority  to  the  king's  brother  Richard,  duke  of  Gloucester, 
Westmiuster.  of  the  custody  and  marriage  of  Henry  Marney,  sou  and  heir  of  John 
Maruey,  knight,  and  the  custody  of  his  manors  and  lauds,  and  so  from 
heir  to  heir.  By  K. 

March  2G.  Appointment,  during  pleasure,  of  Robert  Plomer  as  surveyor  of  all  the 
Westminster,  the  king's  castles,  lordships,  manors  and  lands  and  the  farms  of  ulnage  of 
cloth  in  the  counties  of  Cambridge,  Huntingdon,  Hertford,  Essex,  Suifolk 
and  Norfolk  and  receiver  of  the  same,  with  all  fee  farms  and  farms  of 
ulnage  in  those  counties  and  the  city  of  Norwich,  rendering  his  account 
yearly  at  the  Exchequer  and  receiving  such  fees  as  may  be  agreed  upon 
between  him  and  the  treasurer  before  All  Saints  next,  with  authority  to 
enquire  into  the  value  of  the  premi.ses  and  certify  thereon  to  the  king  and 
council  on  the  quinzaine  of  Michaelmas  next.  By  K. 

The  like  to  the  followiug  in  the  counties  named  : — 

William  Brent  in  Kent,  Surrey,  Sussex  and  Southampton. 

Richard  Spert  in  Lincoln,  Rutland,  Northampton,  Leicester,  Warwick, 

Buckingham  and  Bedford. 
Thomas  Hunte  in  Nottingham,  Derby,  Salop  and  Stafford. 
Maurice  Kydwelly  in  Hereford,  Gloucester,  Worcester,  Wilts,  Berks 

and  Oxford. 

Geoffrey  Kydwelly  in  Somerset,  Dorset,  Devon  and  Cornwall. 
Nicholas   Levcnthorpe   in   York,    Westmoreland,   Cumberland  and 
Northumberland. 

April  2.        Signification  to  Tli.  bishop  of  Lincoln  of  the  royal  assent  to  the  election 
Westminster,  of  Thomas  Gylys,  canon  of  the  monastery  of  Pre  by  Leicester,  of  the  order 
of  St.  Augustine,  as  prior  of  the  monastery  of  St.  Peter,  Dunstable,  of  tho 
same  order. 

March  31.  Grant,  in  consideration  of  the  good  service  of  Ralph  Verney,  knight,  to 
Westminster.  John  Verney  his  son  and  Margaret,  wife  of  the  latter  and  daughter  and 
heiress  of  Robert  Whitingham,  knight,  deceased,  who  was  attainted  of 
treason  by  virtue  of  an  act  in  Parliament  at  Westminster,  4  November, 
1  Edward  IV,  whereby  he  forfeited  all  his  possessions,  that  she  shall  be 
free  from  all  stain  of  attaint  and  may  freely  succeed  to  her  inheritance 
except  those  manors  and  lands  granted  to  the  king's  brother  Richard,  duke 
of  Gloucester,  or  to  Thomas  Mongomery,  knigiit,  by  letters  patent  dated 
15  December,  4  Edward  IV  ;  and  grant  to  her  of  the  manor  of  Pendeley 
and  all  oilier  manors,  lordships,  lands,  rents,  services,  fees,  advowsons  and 
possessions  in  the  city  of  London  or  elsewhere,  with  the  above  exceptions, 
which  should  thus  descend  to  her.  By  p.g. 


330 


CALENDAR  OF  PATENT  ROLLS. 


UT2. 

April  2. 
Westminster. 


April  7. 
Westminster. 


April  7. 

Westminster. 


April  11. 
Westminster. 


Membrane  20 — cont. 

Grant  for  life  to  John  Trebone,  late  one  of  the  gentlemen  of  the  king's 
chapel,  of  10/.  yearly  from  Easter  last  from  the  fee  farm  of  the  city  of 
Worcester.  By  p.s. 

Mandate  in  pursuance  to  the  citizens  and  bailiffs. 

Grant  to  the  king's  brother  George,  duke  of  Clarence,  Master 
Peter  Courtenay,  the  king's  secretary,  William  Courtenay,  Philip 
Courtenay,  Thomas  Fulford,  knights,  and  John  Courtenay,  esquire,  of  the 
custody  of  the  manors  of  Mynhed,  Culveton,  Iveton,  and  Est  Cantok  alias 
Cantokkeshed  with  the  advowson  of  the  church  of  Est  Cantok  and  five 
messuages,  3  carucates  of  land,  6  acres  of  meadow  and  13rf.  of  rent  in  Exton, 
Vexford,  Ryxen  and  Stokegommer,  co.  Somerset,  late  of  James  Lutrell, 
knight,  and  afterwards  of  William,  late  earl  of  Pembroke,  deceased,  tenant 
in  chief,  during  the  minority  of  William  son  and  heir  of  the  latter  from 
Christmas  last  with  all  franchises,  lib(3rties,  courts,  jurisdictions,  leets,  views 
of  frauk-pledge,  hundreds,  fairs,  markets,  parks,  warrens,  wreck  of  sea, 
forfeitures  and  profits.  By  K. 

Presentation  of  Richard  Tansey  to  the  parish  church  of  St,  Martin  iu 
the  Vintry,  London,  void  by  the  death  of  the  last  rector  and  in  the  king's 
gift  by  reason  of  the  temporalities  of  the  abbey  of  St,  Peter,  Gloucester, 
being  in  his  hands. 

Mandate  to  the  esoheator  in  the  counties  of  Bedford  and  Buckingham  for 
the  restitution  of  the  temporalities  of  the  priory  of  St.  Peter,  Dunstable, 
of  the  order  of  St.  Augustine,  to  Thomas  Gylys,  canon  of  the  monastery 
of  St.  Mary  de  Pre,  Leicester  whose  election  as  prior  Th.  bishop  of  Lincoln 
hag  confirmed  and  whose  fealty  the  king  has  taken. 
The  like  to  the  escheators  in  the  following  counties : — 

Hertford. 

Oxford. 

Northampton, 

Leicester. 

Writ  de  intendendo  in  pursuance  to  the  tenants. 


Membrane  19. 


March  18. 
Westminster. 


March  15. 
Westminster. 

1473. 

Feb.  26. 
Westminster. 


Grant  to  the  king's  brother  George,  duke  of  Clarence,  to  whom  the  king 
has  granted  all  castles,  honours,  lordships,  manors,  lands  and  other  posses- 
sions late  of  Richard,  earl  of  Warwick  and  Salisbury,  in  the  right  of  the 
latter  or  of  Anne  his  wife,  and  who  at  the  king's  request  has  surrendered 
a  parcel  of  the  same  to  his  brother  Richard,  duke  of  Gloucester,  that 
neither  by  authority  of  Parliament  nor  in  any  other  way  shall  any  castles, 
honours,  lordships,  manors,  lands,  rents,  services,  reversions  or  possessions 
granted  to  him  before  this  by  the  king  be  taken  from  him  or  his  heirs,  and 
that  if  any  restitution  should  be  made  to  anyone  of  any  parcel  of  the  lands 
late  of  Thomas,  earl  of  Devon,  granted  to  him  such  persons  shall  be  recom- 
pensed by  the  king  and  not  by  the  duke,  and  no  similar  restitution  shall  be 
to  his  prejudice,  provided  that  this  grant  shall  not  extend  to  any  castles, 
lordships  or  lands  belonging  to  the  duke  of  Gloucester  by  force  of  the  said 
partition.  By  K. 

Appointment  of  Thomas  Grene  as  deputy  of  the  king's  kinsman  John, 
earl  of  Wiltshire,  chief  butler  of  England,  in  the  port  of  Ipswich  and  ports 
and  places  adjacent.  By  bill  of  the  chief  butler. 

The  like  of  John  Priour  of  Tinmowthe  in  the  port  of  Newcastle  on 
Tyne  and  ports  and  places  adjacent.  By  bill  of  the  chief  butler. 


12  EDWARD  IV.— Part  I. 


331 


Membrane  19 — eont. 

Pardon  to  Peter  Erie  alias  Perynerleson  late  of  Lynehatn,  co.  Devon, 
'yoman,'  of  his  outlawry  in  the  county  of  Devon  for  not  appearing  with 
William  Gurdon  late  of  Nasmyowe,  co,  Devon,  chaplain,  Thomas  Chalons 
late  of  Pyttyn.  co.  Devon,  'gentilman,'  John  Crokker  late  of  Lyneham, 
esquire,  John  Mayde  late  of  Lyneham,  '  tanner,'  Thomas  Morgan  late  of 
Dunston,  co.  Devon,  '  yoman,'  Hugh  Goolde  late  of  Lyneham,  '  taillour,' 
Ralph  Holyer  late  of  Lyneham,  *  husbondman,'  William  Symon  late  of 
Bukfastlegh,  co.  Devon,  *  yoman,'  John  Walsshe  late  of  Lyneham  the 
younger,  '  grome,'  and  Robert  Ryder  late  of  Newetou  Ferrers,  co.  Devon, 
'  wever,'  before  John  Markham  and  his  fellows,  late  justices  of  tlie  King's 
Bench,  to  answer  William  Caiman  touching  a  breach  of  the  peace  of  the 
late  king,  he  having  surrendered  to  the  Marshalsea  prison,  as  Thomas 
Byllyng,  chief  justice  of  the  King's  Bench,  has  certified,  provided  that  he 
satisfy  the  said  William  Caiman. 

Grant  for  life  to  the  king's  kinsman  John  Bourgchier,  lord  of  Berners, 
knight,  and  Thomas  Bourghchier  his  son  of  the  office  of  constable  of  the 
king's  castle  of  Windesore  and  the  custody  of  all  forests,  parks,  warrens  and 
other  places  pertaining  to  the  same,  to  hold  from  22  June,  1  Edward  IV, 
with  fees  as  in  the  last  year  of  Edward  III  and  ihe  first  of  Richard  II 
from  the  revenues  of  the  castle,  in  lieu  of  a  like  grant  to  the  said  John  by 
letters  patent  dated  the  said  22  June,  surrendered.  By  p.s. 

Vacated  by  surrender  by  the  said  Thomas,  and  cancelled  on  13  June, 
2  Richard  III. 

Pardon  to  William  Radford  late  of  Barkeswell,  co.  Warwick,  *  yoman,' 
of  his  outlawry  in  the  county  of  Middlesex  for  not  appearing  before  the  king 
to  answer  him  and  John  I'arkor  late  of  Colshill,  co.  Warwick,  '  yoman,' 
on  a  charge  of  having  with  Richard  Clapeham  late  of  Alspath,  co.  Warwick, 
'  gentihnan,'  John  Iluggeford  late  of  Wolston,  co.  Warwick,  esquire, 
Robert  Greswold  late  of  Kenelworth,  co.  Warwick,  '  yoman,'  Roger 
Greswold  late  of  Kenelworth,  '  yoman,'  William  Mathewe  late  of  London. 
'  harbour,'  Roger  Moreton  late  of  Kenelworth,  '  yoman,'  John  Mole  late  of 
Kenelworth,  '  yoman,'  Roger  Merton  late  of  Kenelworth,  '  yoman,'  John 
Eyres  late  of  Stratford  on  Avon,  co.  Warwick,  '  yoman,'  Richard  Peresson 
late  of  Brayles,  co.  Warwick,  'yoman,'  Thomas  atfe  Wode  late  of 
Wodehous,  co.  Warwick,  '  yoman,'  John  Rcdknyght  late  of  Offord,  co. 
Warwick,  '  husbondman,'  Edmund  Starky  late  of  Stratton  on  Dunnes- 
more,  CO.  Warwick,  '  gentilman,'  Thomas  atte  Wodo  late  of  Warrewyk, 
'yoman,'  John  Boteler  late  of  Alspath,  'gentilman,'  Roger  \Varde  late  of 
Alspath,  'yoman,'  Thomas  Bysshop  late  of  Alspathe,  ♦  yoman,' William 
Clapeham  late  of  Alspathe,  '  yoman,'  William  Morcton  late  of  Alspathe, 
'  yoman,'  William  FuHbrd  late  of  SolyhuU,  co.  Warwick,  '  husbondman,' 
William  Kendall  late  of  Berkcswell,  '  husbondman,' Thomas  Johnson  late 
of  Byrmyngehani,  co.  Warwick,  '  yoman,'  Baldwin  Smytli  late  cf 
Birniyngeham,  '  yoman,'  Oliver  Yardeley  of  Kenelworth,  '  yoman,'  and 
John  Yerdeley  late  of  Pakyngtou  Priour,  co.  Warwick,  '  yoman,'  at 
Westminster  falsely  caused  the  said  John  Parker  to  be  charged  with  having 
with  Thomas  Parker  late  of  Tonworth,  co.  Warwick,  '  gentihnan,'  and 
Edmund  Parker  late  of  Colshill,  'yoman,'  on  29  May,  1  Edward  IV. 
assaulted  William  Mathewe,  '  harbour,'  at  Fyncheley,  co.  Middlesex,  and 
carried  away  a  saddle  and  bridle,  a  shirt,  a  pair  of  shoes,  four  pieces  of  cords 
{lacenarum)  of  silk  of '  purpull '  colour  called  '  lases,'  a  sword,  a  cap  called  '  a 
hatte,'  a  bladder  with  powder  of  ginger  and  cinnamon,  another  bladder 
with  powder  of  '  dregge,'  three  kerchicl's,  a  pair  of  gloves  of  '  wor.sted  ' 
and  another  pair  of  '  chcverell '  to  the  value  of  26*.  8f/.  and  Gs.  Sd.  in  coin 
of  the  said  William  Mathewe ;  he  having  surrendered  to  the  Marshalsea 
prison,  as  Thomas  Billy ng,  chief  justice  of  the  King's  Bench,  has  certified. 


332 


CALENDAE  OF  PATENT  ROLLS. 


X472.  Membrane  18. 

March  9.       General  pardon  to  Thomas  Danyell  son  of  William  Danyell  of  Daresbury, 
Westminster,  co.  Chester,  esquire,  alias  late  of  London,  alias  of  the  county  of  Norfolk, 
of  all  offences  committed  by  him  before  6  March.  By  p.s. 

March  8.       Grant  to  Richard  Gillott,  chaplain,  of  the  prebend  within  the  king's  college 
Westmiuster.  of  Briggenorth  which  Master  William  Bedale  had,  void  by  the  resignation  of 
the  latter.  By  p.s. 

Mandate  in  pursuance  to  the  dean  and  chapter. 

March  8.  General  pardon  to  William  Caxton  of  the  city  of  London,  *  mercier,'  of 
Westminster,  all  offences  committed  by  him  before  4  March.  By  p.s. 

March  G.       Presentation  of  Thomas  Byrkbek,  chaplain,  to  the  parish  church  of  Pappe- 
Westminster.  wortheverard,  in  the  diocese  of  Ely,  void  by  the  resignation  of  John 
Banastre,  last  parson. 

March  IL       General  pardon  to  Robert  Fouleshurst  late  of  Crue,  co.  Chester,  knight, 
Westminster,  alias  late  of  Edlaston,  co.  Chester,  knight,  of  all  offences  committed  by  him 
before  9  March.  By  p.s. 

March  10.      Mandate  to  the  escheator  in  the  county  of  Lincoln  for  the  restitution 
Westminster,  of  the  temporalities  of  the  church  of  Lincoln  to  Thomas,  late  bishop  of 
Rochester,  whom  pope  Sixtus  has  appointed  bishop  in  the  place  of  John, 
last  bishop,  deceased,  and  who  has  renounced  everything  prejudicial  to  the 
king,  and  whose  fealty  the  king  has  taken.    \_Fcedcru.'\  By  p.s. 

The  like  to  the  escheators  in  the  following  counties  : — 
Oxford. 
Nottingham. 
Leicester. 

Northampton  and  Rutland. 
Bedford  and  Buckingham. 
Hertford. 

Cambridge  and  Huntingdon. 

The  like  to  William  Edward,  mayor  of  London,  escheator  in  that  city. 
The  like  to  the  mayor  of  Lincoln,  escheator  in  that  city. 
Writ  de  intendendo  in  pursuance  to  the  tenants. 

March  11.  Whereas  on  20  October,  7  Edward  IV,  by  letters  patent  (see  p.  36)  the 
Westminster,  king  granted  certain  manors  and  other  premises  here  specified  to  Thomas, 
archbishop  of  Canterbury,  George,  archbishop  of  York,  Thomas  Barnes  and 
Richard  Vyell  and  Richard,  late  earl  of  ^^"arwick  and  Salisbury,  and 
William  Bourghchier,  knight,  lord  Fitz  Wareyn,  now  deceased,  to  hold  for 
the  life  of  Thomas  Ormond  alias  Botiller,  knight ;  he  now,  at  the  suppli- 
cation of  Thomas  Ormond,  esquire,  and  Anne  his  wife,  grants  licence  for 
the  said  archbishops,  Thomas  Barnes  and  Richard  Vyell  to  grant  the  same 
to  them  for  the  life  of  Thomas.  By  p.s. 

March  14.      Grant  to  the  king's  clerk  Peter  Courtenay,  the  king's  secretary,  of  the 
Westminster,  deanery  of  the  king's  royal  free  chapel  or  college  of  St.  Stephen  within  the 
palace  of  Westminster,  void  by  the  demise  of  the  king's  clerk  John  Alcok, 
last  dean.  By  K. 

Mandate  to  the  abbot  of  St.  Peter,  Westminster,  to  admit  the  said  Peter 
and  institute  him  as  dean. 

March  16.      Licence  for  the  sub-prior  and  convent  of  Raunston,  of  the  order  of  St. 
Westminster.  Augustine,  in  the  diocese  of  Lincoln,  to  elect  a  prior  in  the  place  of  John 
Holt,  last  prior,  resigned. 


Membrane  17. 

April  8.  Appointment,  during  pleasure,  of  Nicholas  Leventhorpe  as  surveyor  of  all 
Westminster.;  the  king's  castles,  lordships,  manors  and  lands  and  the  farms  of  ulnage  of 


12  EDWARD  IV.— Paet  I. 


333 


1472. 


April  9. 

Westminster. 


April  S. 
Westminster. 


April  11. 
Westmiustcr, 


April  15. 

Westininstcr. 


April  24. 
Westminster. 


April  22. 
Westminster. 

M.-iy  1. 
Westminster. 


Membrane  17 — cont. 

cloth  in  the  counties  of  York,  Westmoreland,  Cumberland,  and  Northum- 
berland and  the  cities  of  York  and  Carlisle  and  receiver  of  the  .same, 
rendering  his  account  yearly  at  the  Exchefiuer  and  receiving  such  fees  as 
may  be  agreed  upon  between  hiiu  and  the  treasurer  before  All  Saints  next, 
with  authority  to  enquire  into  the  value  of  the  premises  and  certify  thereon 
to  the  king  and  council  on  the  quinzaine  of  Michaelmas  next.  By  K. 

Vacated  because  otherwise  below. 

Exemplification,  at  the  request  of  Rbert  Morys,  of  the  tenour  of  the 
enrolment  of  letters  patent  dated  30  December,  11  Edward  IV.  \_French 
Roll,  11  Edivard  IV.  m.  13],  granting  safe-conduct  for  one  year  for  a  ship 
called  la  Katerine  of  France,  Brittany  or  Spain,  of  the  portage  of  40  tuns, 
of  which  Laurence  Russell,  Robert  de  Mont,  Brenger  Barras,  Nicholas  de 
Seynt  Morys,  Raulet  Babyn,  Giles  le  Petit,  .Jaquet  Remon  or  John 
Daunditrue  is  master.  These  letters  have  been  lost  by  accident,  as  Robert 
de  Mont  has  taken  oath  in  Chancery,  and  they  will  be  surrendered  if  found. 

Pardon  to  William  Clitford,  esquire,  late  cscheator  in  the  counties  of 
Kent  and  Middlesex,  heir  and  tenant  of  the  lands  late  of  John  Clifford  of 
the  parisli  of  Iwode,  co.  Kent,  of  all  offences  committed  by  him  before  1 1 
February  last  and  all  tines,  amercements,  Lssues,  debts,  accounts  and 
arrears  due  from  him  to  the  king  before  that  date.  By  p.s. 

Protection,  so  long  as  they  are  faithful  to  the  king,  for  the  prior 
provincial  and  other^  priors  and  friars  of  the  order  of  St.  Mary  of  Mount 
Carmcl  going  to  divers  parts  of  tiie  realm  preaching  the  word  of  God  and 
doing  other  business,  and  their  places,  affairs  and  good?.  By  K. 

Maudiitc  to  all  sherifT?'.,  mayors,  bailiffs,  ministers  and  others  to  arrest 
certain  friars  of  the  order  of  St.  Mary  of  Mount  Carmel  who  have  rejected 
their  profession  and  habit  and  Avandcr  about,  and  to  deliver  them  to  :iny 
house  of  their  order  for  castigation.  By  K. 

Appointment,  during  pleasure,  of  Nicholas  Lcventhorpe  as  surveyor  of 
all  the  king's  castles,  lordships,  manors  and  lands  and  the  fiirms  of  ulnagc 
of  cloth  in  the  counties  of  York,  Westmoreland,  Cumberland,  and  North- 
umberland, tlie  cities  of  York  and  Carlisle  and  the  towns  of  Kyngcston  on 
Hull  and  Newcastle-on-Tyne  and  receiver  of  all  profits  from  the  same  from 
Michaelmas  last,  rendering  his  account  yearly  at  the  Exchequer  and 
receiving  such  fees  as  may  bo  agreed  upon  between  him  and  the  treasurer 
before  All  Saints  next,  with  authority  to  inquire  into  the  value  of  the 
premises  and  certify  thereon  to  the  king  and  council  on  the  quinzaine  of 
Michaelmas  next.  By  K. 

Presentation  of  David  Caunton,  chaplain,  to  the  church  of  Llangoydmore, 
in  the  diocese  of  St.  Davids,  void  by  the  death  of  Richard  ap  Gwiilm 
Lloyd,  last  parson. 

Presentation  of  Walter  Barbour  to  the  i)arish  church  of  Alvescoto,  in 
the  diocese  of  Lincoln. 

Mandate  to  the  cscheator  in  the  county  of  Gloucester  and  the  marches  of 
Wales  adjacent  for  the  restitution  of  the  temporalities  of  the  abbey  of 
St.  Peter,  Gloucester,  of  the  order  of  St.  Benedict,  to  Dan  AVilliani 
Farley,  Avliose  election  as  abbot  Joiin,  bishop  of  Worcester,  has  confirmed 
and  whoso  fealty  the  king  has  taken.  By  p.s. 

The  like  to  the  escheators  in  the  followin;/-  counties  : — 
Hereford  and  the  marches  of  Wales  adjacent. 
Salop  and  the  marches  of  Wales  adjacent. 
Wilts. 
Warwick. 
Worcester. 
Southampton. 
Writ  de  iutaidcndo  in  puj'suancc  to  the  tcnuuta. 


334 


CALENDAR  OF  PATENT  ROLLS. 


1472.  Membrane  16. 

March  7.       Inspeximus  and  confirmation  of  the  following  : — 
WeBtmiuster.      j   ^  demise  by  Henry  Stafford,  knight,  son  of  Humphrey,  late  duke  of 
Buckingham,  and  Margaret,  countess  of  Richmond,  liis  wife,  late 
the  wife  of  Edmund,  earl  of  Richmond,  to  William  Parre,  knight, 
John  Parre,  knight,  John  Pylkyngton,  knight,  Christopher  Mores- 
by, knight,  Thomas  Stviklaud,  kuight,  William  Harington,  esquire,- 
and  Thomas  Mctkalf,  esquire,  of  their  two  parts  of  the  lordship  or 
township  of  Grcsmere,  the  lordship  or  manor  of  I/oghrigge,  the  lord- 
ship or  township  of  LongdoD,the  lordship  or  township  of  Casterton, 
the  lordships  or  townships  of  Hamelsett  and  _Troutebek  with 
their  members,  the  hamlets  of  Appulthwaite  and  Subtusmylnebek 
and  all  lands  in  them,  the  water  of  Kent,  the  manors,  lordships 
or  townships  of  Helsintou,  Crosthwayt,  Hoton,  Frostwayt,  Strik- 
landeketell,  Whitington,  Warton,  Kerneford,  Assheton,  Moreholme, 
Thorneton,  Kneton  and  Middleton  with  their  members,  all  lands 
in  Scotford,  the  borough  of  Kyrkeby  in  Kendale,  the  bailiwick  of 
the  same  borough,  the  office  of  serjeanty  and  bailiwick  of  Londes- 
dale,  the  close  or  park  of  Calgarth,  the  herbage  and  pannage  of  the 
same,  the  fishery  of  or  in  the  water  of  Wynandremere,  the  herbage 
of  le  Dalehed,  the  toll,  fair  and  market  with  'lez  wyndeles '  and 
'  lepes  de  le  weylc-,'  '  lez  bothes,'  '  shopes,'  '  shamelles,'  bakery,  '  lez 
bankes'  with  '  court-housez  '  of  the  town  of  Kirkeby  in  Kendale, 
the  borough  and  '  lethouse '  in  Kirkeby  in  Kendale  with  their 
farms  and  profits,  the  free  farm  of  free  tenants  in  Kendale,  the 
orchard  and  park  of  Moreholme,  the  corn-mill  of  Appultwayte,  the 
manor  or  lordship   of    Netherwyresdale   with   all  advowsons, 
meadows,  feedings,  pastures,  mills,  stews,  stanks,  waters,  fisheries, 
chaces,  warrens,  moors  and  forests,  sometime  parcel  of  the  lordship 
of  Kendale,  and  all  their  part  with  all  lands,  rents,  services, 
knight's  fees,  moors,  mills  and  other  things  late  parcel  of  the  said 
lordship  of  Kendale,  to  hold  from  Whitsuntide  last  past  for  the  life 
of  the  countess  at  a  rent  of  190/.  yearly.    The  said  Henry  and 
countess   have   appointed   William   Flerayug,   esquire,  Thomas 
Byggynges,  clerk,  John  Dawuey  and  Oliver  Thorueburgh  their 
attorneys  to  deliver  seisin.    20  July,  11  Edward  IV. 
2.  A  writing  of  the  said  countess  after  the  death  of  the  said  Henry  her 
husband  confirming  the  above  with  fresh  agreements  as  to  distraint. 
2.5  November,  11  Edward  tV. 
And  grant  to  the  said  William  Parre  and  the  heirs  male  of  his  body  of  the 
reversion  of  the  said  two  parts  of  the  premises  and  all  other  manors,  lands, 
knights'  fees  and  advowsons  late  parcel  of  the  said  lordship  of  Kendale  on 
the  decease  of  the  said  countess  and  the  reversion  of  the  third  part  of  the 
same  on  the  death  of  Jaquetta,  duchess  of  Bedford,  to  hold  by  the  accus- 
tomed services,  with  remainder  to  the  said  John  Parre  and  the  heirs  male 
of  his  body.  By  p.s. 

Membrane  15. 

March  16.      Grant  for  life  to  the  king's  clerk  Master  John  Morton  of  the  oflice  of 
Westmiuster.  keeper  of  the  rolls,  books  and  records  of  Chancery  and  the  custody  of  the 
House  or  hospital  of  Converts  for  his  habitation,  receiving  the  accustomed 
fees.  Ry  K- 

March  14.      Grant  for  life  to  the  king's  servant  John  Norman  of  the  office  of  one  of 
Westmiuster.  the  four  messengers  of  the  Exchequer,  in  the  king's  hands  by  the  death  of 
Robert  Asshwcll,  receiving  A\  daily  at  the  receipt  of  the  Exchequer  at  the 
hands  of  tlie  treasxu'er  and  chamberlains,  with  a  robe  of  livery  such  as  the 
yeomen  of  the  chamber  have  yearly  at  Christmas  at  the  great  wardrobe. 

By  p.s. 


12  EDWAED  IV.— Part  I. 


335 


1472.  Membrane  16 — cont. 

March  18.      Pardon  to  Christopher  Sharp,  esquire,  late  escheator  in  the  county  of 
WestmiDster.  Yorit,  of  all  escapes  of  felons  and  all  amercements,  issues,  fines,  forfeitures, 
debts,  accounts  and  arrears  due  to  the  king  before  16  March  by  reason  of 
his  office.  By  p.s. 

Marcli  18.      Grant  for  life  to  Giles  van  Rassyngham,  smith  of  Calais,  of  the  reversion 
■Westminster,  of  the  offices  of  master  smith  and  master  gunner  of  the   said  town  of 
Calais  and  the  marches  of  the  same  on  the  death,  sun-endcr  or  forfeiture  of 
Thomas  Clampard  or  other  occupiers,  with  fees  as  the  said  Thomas  or 
Robert  Potte  or  anyone  else  had  in  the  offices.  By  K. 

March  19.      Grant  to  John  Walton,  abbot  of  the  monastery  of  St.  Mary,  Oseuey, 
Westminster.  Ijachelor  of  canon  law,  and  his  assigns  of  the  custody  of  the  temporalities  of 
the  archbishopric  of  Dublin  in  Ireland  with  advovvsons  pertaining  to  it 
from  the  death  of  Michael,  last  archbishop,  so  long  as  they  remain  in  the 
king's  hands,  without  rendering  any  account.  By  p.s. 

March  19.  Grant  to  the  king's  kinswoman  Isabel  late  the  wife  of  John  Neville, 
Westminster.'  marquess  Mountagu,  of  200  marks  yearly  from  Michaelmas  last  for  the 
sustenance  during  minority  of  George,  son  of  the  said  John,  wliose  custody 
and  governance  the  king  granted  to  her  by  letters  patent  dated  22  February, 
11  Edward  IV. ;  viz.  80/f.  from  the  subsidy  and  ulnagc  of  cloth  in  the 
county  of  York  and  Kyngeston  on  Hull  and  the  city  of  York  and  the 
precinct  of  the  same,  20/.  from  the  like  in  the  counties  of  Somerset,  Dorset, 
Wilts  and  Gloucester,  20/.  from  the  custom  and  subsidy  in  the  port  of  Pole, 
8/.  from  the  fee  farm  of  the  town  of  Ivelcestre,  co.  Somerset,  and  lOfis.  8(/. 
from  minute  particles  of  a  serjeanty  in  the  counties  of  Somerset  and  Dorset. 

By  p.-ij. 

March  16.  Protection,  with  clause  volumus,  for  one  year,  for  James  Fynch,  citizen 
Westminster,  and  barber  of  London,  going  beyond  seas  on  the  king's  business.      By  p.s. 

March  21.      Presentation  of  Reginald  Beaupie  to  the  parish  churchjof  Lanoyclf  a/Zos 
Westminster.  Llanddowyn  alias  Llanddoynwen  in  Anglesea,  in  the  diocese  of  Bangor, 
March  17.      Grant  to  William  Horseley  and  the  heirs  of  his  body  of  a  tenement 
Westmingter.  called  '  Newe  Town  '  by  Bamburgh,  co.  Northumberland,  eiteuded  at  the 
yearly  value  of  oO.s-.  to  hold  by  the  accustomed  services.  By  p.s. 

March  20.  Grant  to  Thomas  Cornwcll,  knight,  of  the  custody  and  marriage  without 
Westminster,  disparagement  of  William  son  and  heir  of  Richard  Herbert,  knight,  deceased 
tenant  in  chief;  and  grant  to  him,  his  executors  and  assigns  of  a  yearly 
rent  of  40/.  during  the  minority  of  the  said  heir  at  the  hands  of  Margaret, 
late  the  wife  of  the  said  Richard,  who  is  bound  to  render  the  same  to  the 
king  in  accordance  with  a  grant  to  her  by  letters  patent  dated  3  October 
last  {see  p.  275).  By  p.s. 

Membranes  14  and  13. 

March  1(!.  Appointment  of  the  king's  brother  George,  duke  of  Clarence,  as  his 
[Westminster,  lieutenant  of  Ireland  for  twenty  years,  with  power  to  appoint  a  deputy  under 
him  in  his  absence,  to  summon  Parliaments  and  councils,  to  keep  the  king's 
jjeacc  and  the  laws  and  customs  of  the  land  and  punish  offenders,  to  receive 
rebels  into  the  king's  peace,  to  pardon  for  treasons  and  other  offences,  to 
take  into  the  king's  hands  all  lands  of  rebels  or  lands  forfeited  or  deserted 
and  grant  the  same  to  suitable  persons,  to  receive  all  issues  and  profits  due 
to  the  king  and  expend  them  on  the  defence  of  the  land  and  other  cliarges 
there,  to  grant  licences  for  alienation  in  mortmain,  appropriation  of 
churches  and  foundation  of  charities  ;uid  fraternities,  to  present  to  benefices 
in  the  king's  gift,  to  take  fealties  and  renunciations  of  archbishops  and 
bishops  and  receive  homages  of  tenants,  to  appoint  and  remove  the 
chancellor,  treasurer,  justices,  barons  of  the  exchequer,  keeper  of  the  rolls 


336 


CALENDAR  OF  PATENT  ROLLS. 


1472. 


March  11. 
Westminster. 

May  8. 

Westminster. 


May  8. 
Westminster. 


March  21. 
Westminster. 


Mav  9. 

Westminster 


May  14. 

Westminster 


Membranes  14  and  13 — cont. 
of  chancery  and  other  officers  and  ministerg,  to  make  purveyances  for  his 
household  and  soldiers,  to  grant  safe-conducts,  to  receive  accounts  of  officers 
and  ministers,  to  enquire  about  forfeited  goods  and  to  do  all  else  pertaining 
to  his  oface.  By  p.s. 

31cmbrane  13 — cont. 

General  pardon  to  William  Congerton  alias  Congreton  of  Huntyngdon, 
CO.  Huntingdon,  '  yoman.'  By  p.s. 

Grant  to  Robert  Radclif,  est^uire,  and  Margaret  his  wife,  late  wife  of 
Thomas  Dymmok,  knight,  tenant  in  chief,  of  the  custody  of  all  lauds  late 
of  the  said  Thomas  during  the  minority  of  Robert  Dymmok  his  son  and 
heir  with  the  marriage  of  the  latter  without  disparagement,  and  so  from 
heir  to  heir,  supporting  the  houses,  enclosures,  buildings  and  other  charges 
and  finding  a  competent  sustenance  for  the  heir.  By  p.s. 

Vacated  because  elsewhere  beloio. 

Grant  to  Dominic  de  Serigo,  physician  of  the  king  and  his  consort 
Elizabeth,  queen  of  England,  of  150/.  from  the  subsidy  of  G^.  on  every  tun 
of  sweet  wine  in  the  two  first  carracks  of  Venice  coming  to  any  ports  of  the 
realm ;  in  lieu  of  a  grant  to  him  of  120/.  from  the  said  subsidy  on  sweet 
wine  in  a  carrack  of  Venice  of  which  Julian  Coppe  was  owner  by  letters 
dated  28  October,  9  Edward  IV.  surrendered  because  invalid  because 
the  carrack  was  captured  on  its  way  to  the  realm  by  French  pirates,  and  in 
satisfaction  of  'Ml.  in  addition  for  regard  and  salary.  By  p.s. 

Grant  to  Robert  Radclyf,  esquire,  son  of  John  Radclyf,  knight,  and  the 
heirs  male  of  his  body,  for  his  good  service  beyond  the  seas  and  in  battles 
in  England,  of  all  manors,  lands,  rents,  reversions  and  services  within  the 
realm  late  of  William  Fyndern,  esquire,  son  and  heir  of  Thomas  Fyndern, 
knight,  and  Katharine  his  wife,  and  in  the  king's  hands  by  the  forfeiture  of 
the  said  William  in  the  field  called  '  Bernet  Feld,'  and  all  manors,  lands, 
rents,  reversions  and  services  within  the  realm  of  which  the  said  Katharine 
is  seised  or  anyone  else  to  her  use  and  which  should  descend  to  the  said 
William  on  her  death,  to  hold  with  knights'  fees,  advowsons,  parks, 
warrens,  courts  leet,  views  of  frank-pledge  and  other  appurtenances  by  the 
accustomed  services.  By  p.s. 

General  pardon  to  Richard  Benette  late  of  Standon,  co.  Hertford,  '  hus- 
bondman,'  alias  '  maltman,'  alias  '  yoman,'  of  all  offences  committed  by  him 
before  12  April  last.  By  p.s. 

Grant  for  life  to  Thomas  Twysday  and  Robert  Trunke,  pages  of  the 
king's  chamber,  of  a  messuage  or  tenement  in  Sermonorslane  within  the 
city  of  London  late  of  Richard  Maudeleyn,  clerk,  which  James  Hoget  and 
John  Rasshe  lately  held  of  the  grant  of  Henry  IV.  a  tenement  called  '  Ic 
Blakloft '  with  four  shops  annexed,  another  tenement  with  four  shops 
annexed  and  another  shop  with  a  solar  built  over  it  in  the  lanes  of  Sopers- 
lane  and  Nedelerslane  in  the  parish  of  St.  Anthony,  London,  which  Thomas 
Knolles  and  Richard  Forster,  lately  had  of  the  grant  of  the  said  late  king 
and  which  William  Wexcombe  likewise  had  of  his  grant,  a  house  or  tene- 
ment within  Borchawclane  in  the  parish  of  St.  Mary,  Colchurch,  London, 
which  John  Myddclham  lately  had  of  the  grant  of  the  said  late  king,  a 
tenement  containing  two  mansions  in  the  parish  of  St.  Margaret  Patyns, 
London,  which  James  Hogat,  esquire,  lately  had  of  the  grant  of  the  said 
late  king,  and  certain  land  and  pasture  in  Braunsfon,  Herdwyk  and  Stad- 
hcrn,  CO.  Leicester,  which  William  Sampson  lately  had  of  the  grant  of  the 
said  late  king,  to  hold  by  the  services  of  as  many  knights'  fees  and  as  many 
other  rents  and  services  as  they  were  held  by  before  4  March,  1  Edward  IV. 

By  p.s. 


12  EDWARD  IV.— Pakt  I. 


337 


1472.  Membrane  13 — cont. 

May  8.  Grant  to  Robert  Radclif,  esquire,  and  Margaret  his  wife,  late  the  wife  of 
Westminster.  Thomas  Dymmok,  knight,  tenant  in  chief,  of  the  custody  of  all  lauds  late  of 
the  said  Thomas  during  the  minority  of  Robert  Dymmok  his  son  and  heir 
with  the  marriage  of  the  latter  without  disparagement,  and  so  from  heir  to 
heir,  supporting  the  houses,  enclosures,  buildings  and  other  charges  and 
finding  a  competent  sustenance  for  the  heir.  By  p.s. 

May  27.     Licence  for  the  prioress  and  convent  of  the  monastery  or  house  regular  of 
Westminster.  St.  Ethelfleda,  Romesey,  of  the  order  of  St.  Benedict,  to  elect  an  abbess  in 
the  place  of  Joan  Brigges,  deceased.  By  p.s.  [3481.] 


June  4. 
Westminster. 


.June  5. 

Westminster, 

June  17. 
Westminster. 


June  22. 
Westminster. 


July  23. 
Westminster. 


Membrane  12. 

Grant  for  life  to  the  king's  servant  David  Gough  of  the  office  of  one  of  the 
king's  Serjeants  at  arms  in  the  place  of  John  Convers,  deceased,  with  wages  of 
\2d.  daily  from  7  August,  11  Edward  IV.  from  the  issues  of  the  customs 
and  subsidies  of  wools,  hides  aud  wool-fells,  the  petty  custom  and  the 
subsidy  of  tonnage  and  poundage  in  the  port  of  Pole ;  in  lieu  of  a  like  grant 
of  the  said  office  to  liiin  with  wages  as  above  from  the  issues  of  the  counties 
of  Essex  and  Hertford  by  letters  patent  dated  the  said  7  August, 
surrendered  because  invalid.  By  p.s. 

Presentation  of  William  Gannull,  priest,  to  the  parish  church  of  Lassham, 
in  the  diocese  of  Winchester,  void  by  the  resignation  of  John  Perett,  last 
parson. 

Grant,  during  good  behaviour,  to  Thomas  Hunte  of  the  offices  of  clerk 
and  surveyor  of  the  king's  works  within  the  realm,  with  fees,  profits, 
liveries  of  vestures,  furs  and  linings  of  tartarin  {tart/on)  and  all  houses, 
'  storehouses,'  lodges,  counting  houses,  void  plots  and  gardens  for  the  king's 
works  and  stores  before  15  June  and  reasonable  expenses  for  riding,  iu  the 
same  manner  as  Thomas  Sti-atton,  deceased,  had.  By  p.s. 

General  pardon  to  William  Welles  of  the  county  of  Hertford.        By  p.s. 

The  like  to  John  Suowdon  of  North  Mymmes,  co,  Hertford,  'yoman.' 

By  p.s. 

General  pardon  to  Edmund  Mowntford,  knight.  By  p.s. 


Membrane  11. 

Dec.  16.  Whereas  the  sum  of  2,332/.  19*.  dd.  is  due  from  the  king  to  his  kinsman 
Westminster.  William,  bishop  of  Ely,  for  moneys  lent;  as  appears  in  the  Pell  of  Receipts 
of  the  Exchetiuer,  viz.  on  5  December,  9  Edward  IV.  700/.  17*.  6(/.  on 
24  February,  0  Edward  IV.  two  sums  amounting  to  900/.,  and  on  7  June, 
10  Edward  IV.  732/.  2s.  3d. ;  aud  by  a  tally  levied  at  the  receipt  of  the 
Exchequer  at  Westminster  on  8  February,  0  Edward  IV.  the  king  assigned 
to  the  said  bishop,  then  treasurer,  the  sum  of  40/.  for  moneys  lent,  and  the 
king  assigned  17(5/.  Ss.  3d.  to  William  Kerver  for  moneys  lent  by  two 
tallies  levied  at  the  said  receipt  on  18  June,  10  Edward  I'V.  on  William, 
lord  Hastynges,  receiver-general  of  the  duchy  of  Cornwall,  from  the  issues 
of  his  office,  containing  the  sums  of  106/.  S*.  3d.  and  70/.  respectively,  and 
the  said  William  Kerver,  being  lately  indebted  to  the  said  bishop  for 
176/.  85.  3^/.,  delivered  the  same  two  tallies  to  him  in  payment,  aud  the 
king  for  divers  debts  in  which  he  was  indebted  to  Robert  Cousyn,  keeper  of 
the  great  wardrobe,  for  the  exj)enscs  of  the  wardrobe  assigned  to  him  the 
sum  of  20/.  by  another  tally  levied  on  1 1  November,  9  Edward  IV.  at  the 
said  receipt  on  Ralph  Ben;  and  John  Spadnril,  then  colleetoi  s  of  the  customs 
ami  subsidies  iu  the  port  of  Pole,  from  the  saitl  customs  aud  sub,sidies,  and  the 

y  96186.  Y 


338 


CALENDAR  OF  PATENT  ROLLS. 


1472.  Membrane  11 — cont. 

said  Robert,  being  lately  indebted  to  the  said  bishop  for  20/.  delivered  this 
tally  to  him  in  payment,  and  these  four  tallies  amount  together  to  the  sum 
of  236/.  8s.  '<Sd.  and  the  said  bishop  has  received  no  payment  of  the  above 
8ums,  amonnting  in  all  to  2.560/.  '6s.  and  has  surrendered  the  tallies  at  the 
Exchequer  or  the  receipt  of  the  Exchequer ;  the  king  hereby  grants  to 
him  and  his  executors  and  administrators  the  sum  of  1,000  marks  yearly 
from  Michaelmas  last  from  the  first  moneys  from  the  customs  and  subsidies 
of  wools,  hides  .and  wool-fells  and  other  merchandise  in  the  following  ports 
until  he  shall  thus  be  fully  satisfied  of  the  said  sum  of  2,569/.  8.<.  viz.  200/. 
in  the  port  of  Suthampton  and  ports  and  places  adjacent,  200/.  in  the  port 
of  Sandwich  and  ports  and  places  adjacent,  200/.  in  the  port  of  Bristol  and 
ports  and  places  adjacent  and  100  marks  in  the  port  of  Kyngeston  on  Hull 
and  ports  and  places  adjacent.  By  p.s. 

Mandate  in  pursuance  to  the  customers  or  collectors  in  the  port  of 
Suthampton. 
The  like  to  the  same  in  the  port  of  Sandwich. 
The  like  to  the  same  in  the  port  of  Bristol. 
The  like  to  the  same  in  the  port  of  Kyngeston  on  Hull. 

Grant  to  Alexander  Lye,  one  of  the  king's  chaplains,  of  the  prebend  of 
Morfell  in  the  collegiate  church  of  St.  Mary  Magdalene,  Burggeuorth,  void 
by  the  death  of  Richard  Gillot,  last  incumbent.  By  K. 

Mandate  in  pursuance  to  the  dean  of  the  said  church. 

Appointment  of  Roger  Kelsale,  yeoman  of  the  crown,  to  take  carpenters 
called  '  whelers '  and ' cart wrightes  'and  other  carpenters,  stone-cutters,  smiths, 
plumbers,  bowmakers,  boltmakers  and  other  workmen  for  the  works  of  the 
king's  ordnance  and  bombards,  '  colveryues,'  '  fowlers,'  '  serpentynes  '  and 
other  canons  and  powder,  sulphur,  saltpetre,  iron,  stone,  lead  and  other 
necessaries  for  them,  crossbows  and  bolts  for  them,  arrows,  '  bowstaves,' 
'  bowstriuges,'  lances,  '  gley ves  '  and  hammers  and  other  necessaries  for  the 
ordnance  and  carriage  for  the  same  and  horses  called  '  hakneys  '  and  ships 
and  other  vessels.  By  K. 

The  like  of  the  king's  servant  Richard  Milton,  yeoman  of  the  chamber. 

Nov.  22.  Grant  to  Sir  Louis  de  Brugges  de  la  Gruthuse,  prince  of  Steenhuse,  lord 
Westminster,  of  Avelghien,  of  Spiers,  of  Aemstede  and  of  Oestampe,  whom  for  his  good 
service  to  the  king  when  beyond  the  seas  the  king  lately  in  full  Parliament 
at  the  request  of  the  commons  of  the  realm  created  earl  of  Winchester, 
with  remainder  to  the  heirs  male  of  his  body,  of  arms  as  here  depicted,* 
viz.  dasure  a  dix'  muscles  dor  enorinc  dung  canton  de  nostre  proprc  arines 
Denrjleterre,  cestassavoir  de  (joules  a  iing  lijiard  passaunt  dor  armce 
dasure.       \_Fcedera7\  By  K. 

Vacated  and  cancelled,  because  surrendered  to  Henry  VII,  at  Calais  in 
his  fifteenth  year. 


Dec.  20. 

Westminster. 


Dec.  25. 
Westminster. 


3fEMliRANE  10. 

May  IS.        Grant  for  life  to  the  king's  brother  Richard,  duke  of  Gloucester,  of  the 
Westminster,  office  of  keeper  of  the  forests  beyond  Trent  with  the  fees  and  profits 
belonging  to  the  office.  By  p.s. 

Grant  to  the  said  duke  of  the  custody  during  minority  and  marriage  of 
William,  son  and  heir  of  Thomas  AValgrave,  knight,  and  all  his  manors  and 
lands,  and  so  from  heir  to  heir.  By  p.s. 


*  The  arms  are  painted  in  colours  on  the  roll. 


12  EDWARD  IV.— Part  I. 


339 


1472. 

May  22. 
Westiuinstcr. 


June  22. 
Westiiiinsfer 


June  20. 
Westminster, 


June  23. 
Westminster. 


July  5. 
Westminster. 


July  6. 

Westminster. 


July  1. 
Westminster. 


July  11. 
Westminster. 


Membrane  10 — cont. 
Licence  for  the  king's  kinswoman  Margaret,  countess  of  Elchmond 
daughter  and  heiress  of  John,  duke  of  Somerset,  to  grant  the  manors 
of  Martok,  Cory  Ryvell,  Kingesbury  Regis  and  Queen's  Cammell,  the 
hundreds  of  Bulston,  Abdyke  and  Horethorne  and  the  boroughs  of  Lang- 
port  Estover  and  Laugport  Westover,  co.  Somerset,  and  the  manors  of 
Sampford  Peverell  and  Allerpeverell,  the  borough  of  .Sampford  Pcverell 
and  the  hundred  ol  Alberton,  co.  Devon,  with  knights'  fees,  advowsons, 
franchises,  liberties  and  privileges,  held  in  chief,  to  Thomas,  cardinal  priest 
of  St.  Ciri!ic"s,  archbishop  of  Canterbury,  Robert,  bishop  of  Bath  and  Wells, 
William,  bishop  of  Winchester,  John,  bishop  of  Exeter,  the  king's  kinsman 
John,  earl  of  Wiltshire,  Walter  Blount,  knight,  lord  of  Mountjoye,  Owen 
Lloyd,  clerk,  John  Catesby,  serjeant  at  law,  Richard  Page,  William  Hody 
and  Reginald  Bray,  '  gcntilmen,'  and  their  heirs  and  assigns,  to  fulfil  her 
will.  By  p.s. 

Mandate  to  the  escheator  in  the  counties  of  Southampton  and  Wilts  for 
the  restitution  of  the  temporalities  of  the  abbey  of  St.  Mary,  Romscy,  to 
Elizabeth  Broke,  nun  of  the  monastery,  whose  election  as  abbess  William, 
bishop  of  Winchester,  has  conlirmeJ,  and  whose  fealty  the  king  has  ordered 
to  be  taken  by  the  prior  of  the  cathedral  church  of  St.  Swithun,  Winchester. 

By  p.s. 

The  like  to  the  escheators  in  the  following  counties  : — 
Gloucester  and  the  marches  of  Wales  adjacent. 
Dorset. 

Writ  de  intendendo  in  pursuance  to  the  tenants. 

Grant  to  the  king's  kinsman  Anthony,  earl  of  Ryviers,  that  he  may  take 
1,000  men  at  arms  and  archers  out  of  the  realm  to  Brittany  and  other  parts 
beyond  the  seas  at  his  own  expense  with  certain  captains  appointed  by  him 
to  go  where  he  pleases,  and  that  proclamation  be  made  that  anyone  wishing 
to  go  to  him  has  licence  to  do  so.  By  p.s. 

Pardon  to  'i'homas,  bishop  of  London,  for  the  escapes  of  Robert  Oargrave 
late  of  London,  '  gentilman,'  alias  of  Temysditton,  co.  Surrey,  Thomas 
Ingoldesby  late  of  London,  '  gentilman,'  and  William  Cuttyuge  of  Reylcgh, 
CO.  Essex,  'yoman,'  from  his  prison  before  22  June.  By  p.s. 

Exemplification,  at  the  request  of  the  king's  kinsman  Anthony,  carl 
Ryvors,  of  the  tcnour  of  the  enrolment  of  letters  patent  dated  1  April, 
10  Edward  IV.  being  a  grant  for  life  to  him  of  200/.  yearly.  These 
letters  have  been  lost  by  accident,  as  John  Glover  has  taken  oath  in 
Chancery,  and  will  be  surrendered  if  found. 

Grant  for  life  to  William  Stenys,  for  his  good  service  in  many  battles,  of 
all  messuages,  lands,  rents  and  possessions  late  of  John  Kyng,  clerk, 
within  the  city  of  London,  which  .John  Tunley  lately  had  of  the  grant  of 
Henry  IV.  By  p.s. 

Exemplification,  at  the  request  of  John  Fogge,  of  the  tenour  of  the 
enrolment  of  letters  patent  dated  14  April,  1  Edward  IV.  being  a  grant  to 
him  lor  lite  of  the  office  of  keeper  of  the  wits  and  rolls  of  the  Common 
Bench.  These  letters  have  been  lost  by  accident,  as  he  has  taken  oath  in 
Chancery,  imd  will  be  surrendered  if  found. 

Grant  for  life  to  John  Fogge,  knight,  and  John  Foggo,  esquire,  his  son 
of  tlie  office  of  keeper  of  the  writs  and  rolls  in  the  Common  Bench, 
receiving  the  accustomed  fees,  in  lieu  of  a  like  grant  to  the  said  John 
Fogge,  knight,  then  esquire,  by  letters  patent  dated  21  (su-)  April, 
1  Edward  IV.  surrendered.  By  p.s. 

Vacated  by  surrender  and  cancelled  on  12  March,  2  Richard  III. 

Y  2 


340 


CALENDAR  OF  PATENT  ROLLS. 


1472. 

April  20. 
Westminster. 


April  25. 
Westminster. 


April  29. 
Westminster. 


May  1.5. 

Westminster. 

May  29. 

Westminster. 

May  21. 

Westminster. 


June  17. 
Westminster. 


3fEMBRANE  9. 

Grant  to  Jolia  Marshall,  citizen  and  mercer  of  London,  and  .John  Pulter> 
*  gentilman,'  of  the  custody  of  all  manors  and  lands  late  of  Margaret  late 
the  wife  of  Richard  Hatfeld,  esquire,  and  late  the  wife  of  William 
Hyde,  esquire,  tenant  in  chief,  during  the  minority  of  Edward,  son  and  heir 
of  the  said  Richard  and  Margaret,  and  so  from  heir  to  heir,  rendering 
yearly  to  tlie  king  11/.  18^.  4d.  as  the  said  manors  and  lands  were  extended 
before  William  Hamond,  late  escheator  in  the  county  of  Cambridge,  and 
285.  4d.  more  of  increment  and  supporting  the  houses,  enclosures,  buildings 
and  other  charges ;  in  lieu  of  a  like  grant  to  them  at  a  rent  of  11/.  18s.  4</. 
yearly  and  20d.  more  of  increment,  subject  to  increase  if  anyone  else  should 
offer  more,  by  letters  patent  dated  6  June,  10  Edward  IV.  surrendered. 

By  p.s. 

Pardon  to  Thomas,  abbot  of  the  monastery  of  St.  Peter,  Westminster, 
ordinary  of  that  place,  for  the  escape  of  Nicholas  Stanbery  late  of  Exeter, 
CO.  Devon,  clerk,  alias  chaplain,  from  his  custody  or  from  his  prison  before 
5  April.  By  p.s. 

Appointment,  during  pleasure,  of  Robert  Warde  to  the  office  of  tronage 
and  pesage  in  the  port  of  Boston  and  ports  and  places  adjacent,  receiving 
the  accustomed  fees.  By  bill  of  the  treasurer. 

The  hke  of  the  following  in  the  ports  named  and  ports  and  places 
adjacent : — 

Robert  Cosyn  in  the  port  of  Suthampton.        By  bill  of  the  treasurer. 


June  10. 
Westminster, 


.Tune  26. 

Westminster 


Walter  Radclyff  in  the  port  of  Boston. 


By  bill  of  the  treasurer. 


Licence  for  John  Cartmcll,  clerk,  or  his  executors  to  found  a  perpetual 
chantry  of  one  chaplain  to  celebrate  divine  service  in  the  cathedral  church 
of  York  for  his  good  estate  and  for  his  soul  after  death  and  the  souls  of 
Richard,  late  earl  of  Salisbury,  and  Alice  his  consort  and  the  father  and 
mother  of  the  said  John  and  all  for  whom  he  is  bound  to  pray,  to  be  called 
Neville  chantry.  By  p.s. 

Appointment  of  John  Kyryell,  esquire,  John  Cole  and  William 
Fetherstone  to  the  command  of  an  armed  power  which  the  king  is  sending 
to  sea  to  resist  his  enemies  and  rebels.  By  K. 

Appointment  of  John  Fogge,  knight,  William  Haute,  knight,  Walter 
Hungerford  and  John  Fogge,  esquire,  to  take  muster  of  the  men  at  arms, 
archers  and  mariners  of  the  same  at  any  place  near  le  Downs  by  Sandwich, 
CO.  Kent,  and  certify  thereon  to  the  king  and  council.  By  K. 

Appointment,  during  pleasure,  from  Easter  last  of  John  Batte  as 
controller  and  surveyor  of  the  office  of  bailiff  in  the  town  ahd  port  of 
Sandwich,  receiving  10/.  yearly  nt  the  hands  of  the  bailiff  from  the  issues 
of  the  olhce.  By  bill  of  the  treasurer. 

Appointment  of  John  Kyryell,  esquire,  Richard  Haute,  esquire,  Philip 
Dymmer,  esquire,  Edward  Branqjton,  John  Cole  and  William  Fetherston 
to  the  command  of  an  armed  power  which  the  king  is  sending  to  sea  to 
resist  his  enemies  and  rebels. 


Membrane  8. 

April  24.       ExempliScaticti,  at  the  rcciucst  of  Matthias  Cremer,  born  in  the  city  of 
Westminster.  Cologne,  of  the  teuor  of  the  enrolment  of  letters  patent  dated  4  February, 
9  Edwanl  IV.  granting  that  any  merchant  coming  to  the  realm  and  claiming 
to  be  of  the  Hanse  Almain  shall  not  be  admitted  to  custom  until  he  prove 


12  EDWARD  IV.— Part  I. 


341 


1472. 


Aug.  5. 
Westminster. 


July  30. 
Westiniuster 


Sept.  6. 

Westminster. 

Sept  5. 
Westminster. 


Membrane  8 — cont. 

his  claim  by  letters  under  the  seal  of  the  aldermen  of  the  house  in  London 
commonly  called  Guihalda  Teutonicoruiii  and  by  letters  of  the  said  JMatthias, 
and  gi-anting  protection  to  the  said  Matthias  and  his  servants, factors,  houses 
and  goods.  These  letters  have  been  lost  by  accident,  as  he  has  taken  oath  in 
Chancery,  and  ■will  be  surrendered  if  found. 

Grant  to  the  king's  knight  John  Asteley,  in  lieu  of  a  like  grant  to  him 
when  a  prisoner  in  the  hands  of  the  French  by  letters  patent  dated  5  June 
7  Edward  IV,  surrendered  because  he  has  received  no  benefit  therefrom, 
that  he  or  his  executors  or  administrators  or  their  factors  or  attorneys  may 
ship  woollen  cloths,  sacks  and  bales  of  wool,  wool-fells,  tin  and  lead  in  the 
ports  of  London,  Sandwich  and  Suthampton  and  take  them  to  foreign 
parts  by  the  straits  of  Marrok,  quit  of  customs  and  subsidies  until  he  shall 
thus  be  satisfied  of  the  sum  of  450/.  due  to  him  I'or  the  fee  of  his  oflice  of 
the  king's  standard  bearer.  By  p.s. 

Grant  for  life  to  Edmund  Holt,  one  of  the  yeoman  of  the  crown,  of  6f/. 
daily  for  the  fee  of  the  crown  from  Easter  last  from  the  fee-farm  of  the 
king's  manor  of  la  Barton  by  Gloucester  at  the  hands  of  the  abbot  of 
St.  Beter,  Gloucester.  By  p.s. 

Grant  to  .John  Yonge,  knight  and  alderman  of  Loudon,  and  his  heirs  and 
assigns  of  three  messuages  in  the  ])arish  of  St.  Michael  commoidy  called 
'  Paternoster  chirch  '  «//'r<5  '  Whittington  College '  in  the  ward  of  Vintry, 
London,  late  of  William  Wcynsfbrd,  esquire,  to  hold  in  free  burgage  by 
fealty  and  the  rent  of  \d.  yearly,  and  all  issues  of  the  same  from  4  March 
1  Edward  IV.  in  lieu  of  a  like  grant  to  William  Ilastinges,  knight,  lord 
of  Ilastingcs,  by  letters  patent  dated  22  February,  5  Edward  IV, 
surrendered.  By  p.s. 

General  pardon  to  Edward  Courtenay  late  of  Bokenok,  co.  Cornwall, 
esquire,  a/m.v  late  of  Exccstre,  co.  Devon.  By  K. 

Revocation  of  protection  with  clause  volumus,  for  one  year,  granted  on 
14  February  last  by  letters  patent  to  William  Ferys  alias  Fmysa/ias  Ferry, 
citi/.cnand  mercer  of  London,  going  on  the  king's  .service  in  the  company  of" 
the  king's  kinsman  Henry,  earl  of  Northumberland,  warden  of  the  ea^t 
marches  of  England  towards  Scotland,  on  the;  saie-custody,  defence  and 
victualling  of  the  same,  because  he  delays  in  the  city  and  suburbs  of 
London,  as  appears  by  certificate  of  the  sherilTs. 


MEiinRANE  7. 

April  22.  The  king  on  1  Mny,  7  Edward  IV.  by  letters  patent  granted  for  life  (o 
Westminster.  John  Coldale  the  ofiicc  of  one  of  the  keepers  of  '  le  Ovcrwarde'  within  the 
forest  of  Inglcwodc,  and,  afterwards  the  said  John  complained  of  having 
been  removed  by  pretext  of  other  letters  patent  granting  the  same  ofiicc  to 
Robert  Boost  on  24  October  la.st,  and  the  king  on  27  November  directed 
William  Par,  knight,  sheriff  of  the  county  of  CnnJierland,  lo  snnnnon  the  said 
Robert  before  him  in  Chancery  on  the  quin/aine  of  St.  Hilary  to.«how  cause 
why  the  said  John  should^  not  be  restored  to  possession.  Tlie  .-heriff  lia.s 
returned  tlnit  he  summoned  the  said  Robert  i)y  William  Iluddesson  and 
Richard  Stele,  good  men  of  his  bailiwick,  biitthesaid  Bobort  did  not  appear 
and  judgment  was  given  against  him  by  Jiobert,  bishop  of  Bath  and  Wells, 
the  chancellor,  and  the  court  of  Chancery.  The  king  accordingly  revokes 
the  said  letters  patent  to  the  said  Robert. 

July  27.        Licence  for  John  Wadham,  osciuire,  to  go  to  the  court  of  Rome,  the 
Westminster.  Holy  Land  and  other  parts  beyond  the  seas  on  )>ilgrimage,  with  three 
per,sons  in  his  company  and  as  many  iiorses  and  gold  and  silver  in  money 


342 


CALENDAR  OF  PATENT  ROLLS. 


1472.  Membrane  7 — cont. 

to  the  sum  of  60/.  tapers  {bogeis),  caskets,  wallets,  fardels,  letters,  papers, 
rolls,  memoranda,  writings  and  other  things.  By  p.s. 

July  28.  Grant  to  the  king's  knight  Galiard  de  Dureford,  lord  of  Duras  and 
Westminster.  Blanquefort,  and  his  heirs  male  of  the  lordship,  castle  and  town  of  la 
Sparre  in  the  duchy  of  Aquitaine  and  all  castles,  manors,  hundreds,  lands, 
meadows,  feedings,  pastures,  rents,  services,  wards,  marriages,  reliefs, 
escheats,  waters,  fisheries,  warrens,  courts  leet,  views  of  frank-pledge 
advowsons  and  other  profits  within  or  pertaining  to  the  same.  \_Foederaj\ 

By  p.s. 

Aug.  4.        Appointment  of  GaUiard  de  Dureford,  lord  of  Duras,  to  the  command  of 
Westminster,  an  armed  power  which  the  king  is  sending  beyond  the  seas  to  resist  his 
enemies.    \_FcederaJ]  By  K. 

Aug.  ] .         Grant  for  life  to  John  Strelley  and  Margaret  his  wife,  for  their  good 
Westminster,  service  to  the  king  and  his  consort  Elizabeth,  queen  of  England,  of  a 
yearly  rent  of  10/.  from  Easter  last  from  a  farm  of  20/.  paid  yearly  to 
the  king  from  the  lands  of  Eustace  Burneby  in  Watford,  co.  Northampton. 

By  p.s. 

Aug.  4.  Ratification  of  the  estate  which  Lewis  ap  Jankyn,  king's  clerk,  has  as 
Westminster,  parson  of  the  church  of  Manavon,  in  the  diocese  of  St.  Asaph. 

Aug.  G.         Pardon  to  John  Brampton,  citizen  and  '  stokfyssemonger  '  of  London, 
Westminster,  late  one  of  the  customers  of  the  great  custom  and  collector  of  the  3s.  in 
the  tun  and  the  \2d.  in  the  pound  in  the  port  of  London,  of  all  offences 
committed  by  him  before  4  August  and  all  debts,  accounts  and  arrears  due 
from  him  to  the  King.  By  p.s. 

The  like  to  Thomas  Pynde,  citizen  and  draper  of  London,  late  one  of  the 
customers  of  the  great  custom  and  coliector  of  the  3*.  in  the  tun  and  the 
\2d.  in  the  pound  in  the  port  of  London.  By  p.s. 

Aug.  5.        Grant  to  Master  John  Haddon,  chaplain,  of  the  prebend  of  St.  Mary 
Westminster.  Magdalene,  Alveley,  in  the  free  chapel  or  collegiate  church  within  the  king's 
castle  of  Brugenorth,  co.  Salop,  void  by  the  resignation  of  John  Freraan. 

By  p.s. 

Mandate  in  pursuance  to  the  dean  of  the  chapel. 

Aug.  18.       Presentation  of  Thomas   Gerard,  chaplain,  to  the  parish  church  of 
Westminster.  SS.  Simon  and  Jude,  Norwich,  with  the  parish  churches  of  St.  Swithun 
in  the  same  and  Crostwhite  annexed,  in  the  diocese  of  Norwich,  void  by 
the  resignation  of  the  last  incumbent. 

Aug.  27.        Licence  for  the  prior  and  convent  of  the  monastery  of  St.  Mary, 
Westminster.  Oseney,  of  the  order  of  St.  Augustine,  in  the  diocese  of  Lincoln,  to 
elect  an  abl)ot  in  the  place  of  .John,  last  abbot,  consecrated  archbishop 
of  Dublin. 

Sept.  9.         Signification  to  Th.  bishop  of  Lincoln  of  the  royal  assent  to  the  election 
Westminster,  of  Richard  Loycetur,  canon  of  the  monastery  of  St.  Mai-y,  Osenay,  as  abbot 
thereof. 

Sept.  9.        Grant  foi-  life  to  John  Alestre  of  the  king's  free  chapel  within  the  castle 
Westminster,  of  Notyngham  and  the  custody  of  the  same,  void  by  the  demise  of  John 
Fowler,  chaplain.  By  p.s. 


Membrane  6. 

Aug.  5.        Licence  for  the  king's  brother  George,  duke  of  Clarence,  to  enter  freely 
Westminster,  into  all  castles,  lordships,  lands,  rents,  services,  possessions  and  here- 
ditaments with   knights'   fees,  advowsons,   franchises,  liberties,  reliefs, 
reversions  and  other  profits,  parcel  of  the  earldom,  honour  and  lordship  of 


12  EDWARD  IV.— Part  I. 


343 


14i72.  Membrane  6 — cont. 

Richmond,  which  Richard  Widevyll,  knight,  and  Jaquetta  his  wife,  late 
duchess  of  Bedford,  now  deceased,  held  for  her  life,  the  reversion  of  which 
was  granted  to  him  by  letters  patent  dated  20  September,  2  Edward  IV. 

By  p.s. 

July  4.  Whereas  Henry  IV.  by  letters  patent  dated  16  November,  3  Henry  IV. 
Westminster,  granted  to  his  brother  John,  earl  of  Somerset,  and  his  heirs  the  manors  of 
Sampford  Peverell  and  AUerpeveroll  with  all  lands,  rents,  services  and 
other  profits  late  of  William  Asthorpe,  knight,  in  the  county  of  Devon 
with  appurtenances  in  Sampford  Peverell,  Aller  Peverell,  Buliull,  Lyner- 
more,  Prattesland,  Swyndon,  Colyford,  Pecliecroft,  Halswod,  the  hundred 
of  Halberton,  Asshe  Thomas,  Prestonlond,  Yernescombe,  Shutlake, 
Bolealler,  Yee,  Shafteshaies,  Howingliam  and  Westcote  and  all  knights' 
fees,  advowsons,  wards,  marriages,  escheat-^,  reliefs,  courts  leet,  hundreds, 
rents,  services,  meadows,  pastures,  parks,  chaces,  warrens,  woods,  com- 
mons, fisheries,  mills,  stanks,  moors,  marshes,  waters,  stews,  passages, 
views  of  frank-pledge,  infangthef,  outfangthcf,  waif,  stray,  chattels  of 
felons  and  fugitives  and  other  profits  in  the  said  county,  in  the  hands  of  the 
said  king  because  the  said  William  was  a  bastard  and  died  without  heir, 
and  the  above  have  descended  to  the  king's  kinswoman  Margaret,  countess 
of  Richmond,  as  kinswoman  and  heir  of  tiie  said  carl,  viz.  <laughter  of  his 
son  John,  late  duke  of  Somerset,  but  have  been  taken  into  the  king's 
hands  because  the  letters  are  inv.alid  ;  the  king  grants  the  same  to  her  and 
her  licirs  and  pardons  to  her  all  issues  after  29  September,  9  Edward  IV. 

By  p.s. 

Aug.  27.  Grant  for  life  to  the  king's  servant  John  Gwynne  of  the  office  of  one 
Westminster,  of  the  king's  sei'jeants  at  arras  from  25  October  last  with  wages  of  12^/. 

daily  from  the  issues  of  the  fee  farm  of  the  town  of  Colchester  and  a 
livery  of  the  suit  of  tiic  king's  esquires  yearly  at  tlie  great  Avardrobe. 

By  p.s. 

Sept.  4.         Grant,  to  William  Aykroyd,  clerk,  and  John  Hardyng,  clerk,  of  tho 
Westminster,  presentations  to  the  parish   churches  of  Southflcte  and  Trottesclive,  in 
the  diocese  of  Rocheater,  now  void,  for  this  turn  only. 

Membrane  5. 

May  7.  Revocation  of  the  protection,  with  clause  volumus,  for  one  year, 
Westminster,   lately  granted  by  letters  patent  to  Lewis    Fyssher   of    Stourton,  co. 

Wilts,  '  gentilman,'  going  on  tlu;  king's  service  in  the  comi)any  of  the 
king's  brother  George,  duke  of  Clarence,  lieutenant  of  Ireland,  to  that 
land  on  the  safe  custody,  defence  and  victualling  of  the  same,  becau.se 
he  delays  at  Briggewater,  co.  Somerset,  as  appears  by  certificate  of  tiie 
sheriff. 

May  11.        Signification  to  Th.  bisho])  of  Lincoln  of  the  royal  assent  to  the  election 
Westminster,  of  Eustace  Barnard,  canon  of  the  priory  of  Raunstou,  of  the  order  of 
St.  Augustine,  as  prior  of  that  place. 
May  10.        Inspcximvs  and  confirmation  to  Edmund  Wichyngham,  es<inire,  and  Alice 
Westminster,  his  wife  and  William  Bcrdwell  the  younger,  es(iuire,  and  Elizabctli  his  wife, 
the  present  tenants  of  the  manor  oi'  Kellyng,  of  the  following  : — 

1.  A  charter  dated  at  Calais,  20  July,  21  Edward  111.  granting  to  John 

Avenel  and  his  heirs  free  warren  in  all  their  demesne  lands  of 
Kellyng  and  Salthous,  co.  Norfolk,  provided  they  are  not  within  the 
metes  of  the  forest. 

2.  Another  charter  of  the  same  date  granting  to  the  same  a  market  weekly 

on  Tuesdays  !it  the  saiil  manor  and  a  lair  there  yearly  on  the  vigil  and 
the  day  of  the  Exaltation  of  the  Holy  Cross. 

For  I  mark  paid  in  the  hanaper. 


344 


CALENDAR  OF  PATENT  ROLLS. 


1472.  Membrane  5 — cont. 

May  12.        Presentation  of  John  Grome,  chaplain,  to  the  parish  church  of  Drayton 
Westminster,  Passelowe,  in  the  diocese  of  Lincoln,  void  by  the  resignation  of  Edward 
Betriche. 

June  2.        Grant  to  the  king's  servant  John  Gogh  during  the  minority  of  the  earl 
Westminster,  of  Pembroke  of  the  office  of  bailiff  of  Dunster  and  the  custody  of  the  park 
of  Mersshewode  with,  a  plot  pertaining  to  it  in  the  county  of  Somerset, 
with  the  accustomed  fees.  By  p.s. 

May  20.  Grant  for  life  to  the  king's  brother  George,  duke  of  Clarence,  of  the 
Westminster,  office  of  great  chamberlain  of  England  as  fully  as  Richard,  late  earl  of 
Warwick,  had  the  same,  receiving  such  fees  as  the  latter  had  at  the  receipt 
of  the  Exchequer,  with  all  other  accustomed  profits ;  in  lieu  of  a  like  grant 
of  the  office  to  the  king's  brother  Richai'd,  duke  of  Gloucester,  by  letters 
patent  dated  18  May,  11  Edward  IV.  surrendered.  By  p.s. 

June  2.  Licence  for  the  prior  and  chapter  of  the  cathedral  church  of  Holy 
Westminster.  Trinity,  Norwich,  to  elect  a  bishop  in  the  place  of  Walter  le  Hert,  deceased. 

[i^a?c/cra.]  By  p.s. 

June  3.        General  pardon  to  John  Waleys,  vicar  of  the  parish  church  of  Bolney, 
Westminster,  co.  Sussex,  alias  John  Auerey  of  Bolney,  chaplain,  of  all  offences  committed 
by  him  before  20  May  last.  By  p.s. 

June  6.  Protection  with  clause  volumus,  for  one  year,  for  John  Fynaunce  late  of 
Westminster.  Qlney,  CO.  Buckingham,  esquire,  alias  John  Finance  late  of  Stachedeyn, 
CO.  Bedford,  '  gentilman,'  alias  of  Husbondcrowley,  co.  Bedford, 'gentilman,' 
alias  John  Fynciance  late  of  Hertillingborogh,  co.  Northampton,  going  on 
the  king's  service  in  the  company  of  the  king's  brother  George,  duke  of 
Clarence,  lieutenant  of  Ireland,  to  that  land  on  the  safe-custody,  defence 
and  victualling  of  the  same.  By  bill  of  p.s. 

June  4.         Grant  for  life  to  Gilbert  Thomson  of  Gillingham,  co.  Dorset,  of  two 
Westminster,  closes  within  the  privilege  of  Gillyngham  late  of  Edward  Ellesmere,  rebel, 
attainted  of  high  treason  in  the  first  year  of  the  reign,  not  exceeding  the 
value  of  265.  8c?.  By  p.s. 

June  10.       Signification  to  W.  bishop  of  Winchester  of  the  royal  assent  to  the 
Westminster,  election  of  Elizabeth  Broke,  nun  of  the  monastery  of  St.  Mary,  Romsey,  as 
abbess  of  that  place.  By  p.s. 

June  12.       Grant  to  John  Fogg,  knight,  James  Goldwell,  clerk,  the  king's  coun- 
Westminster.  cillors,  and  Nicholas  Goldwell,  clerk,  of  the  custody  of  the  temporalities  of 
the  bishopric  of  Norwich  during  its  voidance  by  the  death  of  Walter  Libert, 
last  bishop,  without  rendering  anything  to  the  king.  By 


Membrane  4. 

Aug.  7.  John  Marney,  knight,  deceased,  for  divers  trespasses  and  other  offences 
Westminster,  committed  by  him  in  the  year  8  Edward  IV.  was  fined  800/.,  for  the  pay- 
ment of  which  Thomas  Tyrell,  knight,  Thomas  Cornwalles  of  Bartillesden, 
John  Rous,  esquire,  and  John  Throgmerton,  esquire,  were  bound  for  him, 
and  for  their  exoneration  they  and  Thomas  Mountgomery,  knight,  William 
Lygon,  esquire,  and  Walter  Brokhampton,  esquire,  and  Lewis  Fitz  Lowes, 
esquire,  now  deceased,  were  enfeoffed  by  the  said  John  Marney  and  Joan 
his  wife  of  all  lordships,  manors,  lands,  reversions,  and  possessions  of  these 
latter  in  the  counties  of  Essex,  Oxford  and  Buckingham,  the  king's  licence 
having  been  obtained,  under  certain  forms  and  conditions  specified  in  a 
will  of  the  said  John  Marney,  and  for  greater  security  a  fine  was  levied  in 
the  king's  court  at  Westminster  on  the  morrow  of  the  Ascension, 
9  Edward  IV.  before  Robert  Dnnby,  Walter  Moyle,  John  Nedeham, 
Richard  Cbokke,  Thomas  Lytelton  and  Thomas  Yonge,  justices,  and  after- 


12  EDWARD  IV.— Part  I. 


345 


1472.  Membrane  4 — cont. 

wards  on  the  octaves  of  Holy  Trinity  before  the  same  justices  and  others 
between  the  said  Thomas,  Thomas,  Lewis,  Thomas,  William,  Walter,  John 
and  John,  complainants,  and  the  said  John  and  Joan,  deforciants,  touching 
the  said  lordships,  manors,  lands,  reversions,  and  possessions  by  the  name  of 
the  manors  of  Leyre  Marney,  Gryppecrake,  Horndonhous  and  Ardernhall 
and  one  messuage  in  Southwokyndon  and  the  advowson  of  the  church  of 
Leyre  Marney,  co.  Essex,  and  two  parts  of  a  third  part  of  the  manor  of 
Chepyngnorton  and  the  third  part  of  a  third  part  of  the  same  manor,  co. 
Oxford,  and  two  parts  of  the  manor  of  Kyngsey  and  four  messuages,  45 
acres  of  land  and  10  acres  of  meadow  in  Kyngsey,  co.  Buckingham,  ^-iz.  the 
said  John  and  Joan  acknowledged  the  premises  to  be  the  right  of  the  said 
Thomas  Tyrell  and  released  the  same  with  the  exception  of  the  said  third 
part  of  a  third  part  to  the  said  complainants  and  the  heirs  of  the  said 
Thomas  and  also  the  reversion  of  the  said  third  part  of  a  third  part  on 
the  death  of  Margaret,  late  the  wife  of  John  Echyngham,  who  holds  it  for 
life  of  the  inheritance  of  the  said  John  Marney,  and  for  this  the  said  com- 
plainants granted  600/.  to  the  said  .John  and  Joan,  the  king's  licence 
having  been  obtained.  And  at  another  time  the  said  Thomas  Tyrell  and 
others  were  enfeoffed  by  the  said  John  Marney  of  the  manor  of  Culquite, 
CO.  Cornwall,  to  fulfil  his  will ;  and  afterwards  in  the  year  11  Edward  JV. 
certain  officers  and  ministers  of  the  king  for  other  treasons,  insurrections, 
trespasses,  and  offences  by  the  said  John  Marney  took  into  the  king's 
hands  the  interest  in  all  the  above.  The  king  now  for  a  certain  sum  of 
money  paid  to  him,  by  the  hands  of  his  brother  Richard,  duke  of  Gloucester, 
by  the  said  .loan,  Thomas,  Thomas,  Thomas  and  John  Rous  beyond  the 
said  fine  of  800/.  pardons  the  said  treasons,  insurrections,  trespasses  and 
offences  and  releases  his  right  in  the  above  premises  to  the  said  Thomas, 
Thomas,  Thomas,  William,  Walter,  John  Rous  and  John  Throgmerton  and 
others  aforesaid  and  the  heirs  of  Thomas  Tyrell,  and  grants  licence  for 
the  said  Thomas,  Thomas,  Thomas,  Williiim,  Walter,  .John  and  John  to 
grant  the  said  two  parts  of  the  manor  of  Kyngesey  with  the  exception  of 
an  aci'e  of  land  in  Kyngesey  and  the  said  two  parts  of  a  third  part  of  the 
manor  of  Chepyngnorton  with  the  exception  of  an  acre  of  land  in  Chepyng- 
norton, held  in  chief,  to  William  Hampton,  knight,  citizen  and  alderman  of 
London,  and  John  Grene  of  the  county  of  Essex,  esquire,  and  for  these  to 
re-grant  the  same  to  the  said  Thomas,  Thomas,  Thomas  and  John  Rous 
and  John  Morton,  king's  clerk,  keeper  of  the  rolls  of  Chancery,  Humphrey 
Starkey,  recorder  of  London,  Humphrey  Tyrell,  esquire,  Robert  Tyrell, 
esquire,  Thomas  Lygou,  esquire,  and  William  Eadby,  esquire  and  their 
heirs.  I5y  p.s. 

Aug.  27.        Genei-al  pardon  to  William  Pirton  alias  Pircton  alias  Pyrton  late  of 
Westminster.  LitcU  Bentley,  co.  EsSex,  knight,  of  all  offences  committed  by  him  before 
25  August  and  all  fines,  issues,  debts,  accounts  and  arrears  due  from  him  to 
the  king.  By  p.s. 


Membrane  3. 

March  9.       Pardon  to  Christopher  Moresby,  knight,  late  esquire,  lato  sheriff  of 
Westminster.  Cumberland,  late  escheator  in  the  counties  of  Cumberland  and  West- 
moreland, son  and  heir  of  Christopher  Moresby,  late  sheritF  of  Westmoreland, 
of  all  offences  committed  by  him  before  1  December  last,  and  all  fines,  issues, 
debts,  accounts  and  arrears  due  from  him  to  the  king  By  p.s. 

March  25.      Grant  for  life  to  tlie  king's  brother  George,  duke  of  Clarence,  of  tiie 
Westminster,  lordship  and  manor  of  Claveryng,  co.  Essex,  the  lordship  and  manor  of 
Newport  Paynell,  the  park  of  Tikford,  the  castle  and  lordship  of  Morende, 
the  lordship  and  manor  of  Solyhull,  the  park  of  Fulbroke  and  an  inn  called 


346 


CALENDAR  OF  PATENT  ROLLS. 


1472.  Mevibrane  3 — cont. 

'  le  Herber '  in  the  city  of  London  with  the  tenements,  rents  and  buildings 
belonging  to  it,  and  knight's  fees,  advowsons,  courts  leet,  views  of  frank- 
pledge, parks,  woods,  chaces,  warrens,  fisheries,  fairs,  markets,  liberties, 
franchises,  and  other  commodities.  By  K. 

April  16.       General  pardon  to  William  Brokeshaw  late  apprentice  of  the  city  of 
Westminster.  London,  son  of  John  Brokshawe  of  Cambridge,  of  all  offences  committed 
by  him  before  28  March  last.  By  p.s. 

May.  4.  General  pardon  to  John  Roche  of  Chester,  '  bochour,'  of  all  felonies 
Westminster,  committed  by  him  before  28  April  last.  By  p.s. 

June  19.        Appointment  for  life  of  the  king's  servant  John  Wykes,  esquire,  as  one 
Westminster,  of  the  esquires  of  the  body,  receiving  50  marks  yearly  from  Easter  last 
from  the  issues  of  the  counties  of  Bedford  and  Buckingham.  By  p.s. 

J une  4.         Licence  for  the  appropriation  in  mortmain  without  inquisition  by  William, 
Westminster,  the  abbot,  and  the  convent  of  St.  Mary,  Jorvall,  of  the  church  of  Aynderby 
Withstepill  and  the  free  chapel  of  Westwitton,  co.  York,  not  held  in  cbietj 
which  are  of  their  own  patronage. 

By  p.s.  and  for  40^.  paid  in  the  hanaper. 

July  26.        General  pardon  to  Richard  Sharp  late  of  Wyng,  co.  Rutland,  '  hus- 
Westminster.  bondman,'  alias  late  of  Preston,  co.  Rutland,  '  frankaleyn,'  of  all  offences 
committed  by  him  before  25  July.  By  p.s. 

July  26.        The  like  to  John  Sharpe  of  Wyng,  co.  Rutland,  '  husbondmau,'  alias 
Westminster,  late  of  Preston,  co.  Rutland,  *  yoman,'  alias  '  frankaleyn,'  of  all  offences 
commited  by  him  before  24  July.  By  p.s. 

Aug.  12.       Appointment  of  the  king's  brother  Richard,  duke  of  Gloucester,  as 
Westminster,  steward  of  the  lordship,  town  or  manor  of  Ripon,  parcel  of  the  temporalities 
of  the  archbishopric  of  York,  so  long  as  these  remain  in  the  king';;  hands, 
with  the  accustomed  fees.  By  p.s. 


Membrane  2. 

June  12.       Pardon,  for  1  mark  paid  in  the  hanaper,  to  Richard  Midelton,  esquire, 
Westminster,  and  Matilda  late  the  wife  of  Thomas  Greue,  knight,  son  and  heir  of  Thomas 
Grene,  knight,  tenant  in  chief,  of  their  trespass  in  intermarrying  without 
licence. 

June  12.  Grant  for  life  to  the  king's  kinsman  John  Stafford,  earl  of  Wiltshire,  of 
Westminster,  the  reversion  of  a  messuage  or  inu  called  '  Hungcrford  Inne '  near  Charing- 
crosse,  co.  Middlesex,  lace  of  Robert  Hungerford,  knight  lord  Hungerford, 
attainted  of  high  treason,  on  the  death  of  the  king's  aunt  Anne,  duchess  of 
Buckingham,  who  holds  the  same  for  life  of  the  king's  grant,  to  hold  by  the 
services  of  as  many  knights'  fees  and  as  many  other  rents  and  services  as  it 
was  held  by  before  4  March,  1  Edward  IV.  By  p.s. 

June  18.  General  pardon  to  Roger  Boston  late  of  Northampton,  '  miller,'  of  all 
Westminster,  offences  committed  by  him  before  3  May  last.  By  p.s. 

June  13.        Pardon  to  Richard  Culpeper,  esquire,  late  sheriff  of  Kent,  of  all  offences 
Westminster,  committed  by  him  and  all  lines,  amercements,  debts,  accounts  and  arrears 
due  from  him  to  the  king  by  reason  of  his  office.  By  p.s. 

July  11.        General  pardon  to  Thomas  Astun  alias  Aston,  monk  of  the  order  of 
Westminster.  St.  Benedict,  late  of  Lanreythowe,  co.  Cornwall,  of  all  offences  committed 
by  him  before  1  February  last.  By  p.s. 

July  1.         Licence,  for  6  marks  paid  by  them  in  the  hanaper,  for  Thomas  Burdet 
Westminster,  and  Thomas  Throkmarton  to  gr.mt  the  manors  of  Kynvare  and  Stourton, 
CO.  Stafford,  held  in  chief,  to  Roger  Tocotes,  knight,  Nicholas  Latomer, 
knight,  John  Say,  knight,  John  Tapton,  clerk,  John  Baruaby,  clerk, 


12  EDWARD  IV.— Part  I. 


347 


1472.  Membrane  2 — cont. 

William  Canynges  of  Bristol,  clerk,  Thomas  Haukyns,  clerk,  William 
Mitton,  esquire,  John  Gilbert,  clerk,  and  Thomas  Wilmot,  clerk,  and  their 
heirs. 

July  17.  Pardon  to  Eleanor  Beamont  late  the  wife  of  Henry  Beamount,  knight, 
Westminster,  alias  executrix  of  the  will  of  Henry  Beaumourit,  knight,  late  sheriff"  of 
Stafford,  and  tenant  of  his  lands,  alias  executrix  of  the  will  of  Henry 
Beaumount,  knight,  late  esquire,  escheator  of  tlie  county  of  Worcester,  of 
all  olFences  committed  by  her  before  5  July,  all  alienations  and  perquisitions 
by  her  of  land  without  licence  and  all  fines,  amercements,  issues,  debts, 
accounts  and  arrears  due  from  her  to  the  king.  By  p.s. 

July  20.        General  pardon  to  Thomas  Coke  alias  Cooke,  knight,  citizen  and 
Westminster,  alderman  of  London,  alias  merchant,  alias  citizen  and  draper  of  London, 
alias  late  one  of  the  customers  in  the  port  of  Suthampton.  By  p.s. 

The  like  to  Philip  Coke  alias  Cooke  late  of  London,  '  gentilman,'  sou  of 
Thomas  Coke  late  of  London,  knight.  By  p.s. 

July  23.  Presentation  of  John  Launce,  chaplain,  to  the  parish  church  of  Weston 
Westminster,  by  Becclis,  in  the  diocese  of  Norwich. 

July  23.  Pi'esentation  of  Thomas  Ciinwo,  chaplain,  to  the  parish  church  of  Chilton 
Westminster.  Cantelope,  in  the  diocese  of  Bath  and  Wells. 

July  23.        Pardon   to  Edward,   bishop  of  Carlisle,  for   his  good   services  and 
Westminster,  expenses  on  embassies  and  at  other  times,  for  tlie  escape  of  William 
Bourgh,  convicted  of  certain  felonies  before  the  justices  of  the  peace  and 
the  justices  of  oyer  and  terminer  in  the  county  of  Cumberland,  and 
committed  to  his  custody  as  a  clerk  convicted.  I3y  K. 

July  15.        General  pardon  to  William  Chester,  merchant  of  the  staple  of  Calais, 
Westminster,  alias  citizen  and  '  wolman  '  of  London,  alias  citizen  and  skinner  of  London, 
alias  citizen  and  '  belfounder '  of  London,  of  all  offences  committed  by  him 
before  5  July.  By  p.s. 

The  like  to  Richard  Chester  of  Stowe  St.  Edward,  co.  Gloucester, 
'  chapman,'  alias  *  wolman,'  alias  citizen  and  skinner  of  London.      By  p.s. 


Membrane  1. 

Aug.  4.  Appointment,  during  pleasure,  of  Geoffrey  Kydwelly  as  surveyor  of  all 
Westminster,  the  king's  castles,  lordships,  manors  and  lands  and  the  sub.^idy,  ulnagc  and 
forfeiture  of  cloth  in  tiie  counties  of  Somerset,  Dor.set,  Devon  and  Cornwall 
specified  in  a  roll  annexed  to  these  presents,  and  receiver  of  the  same,  and 
of  all  farms  specified  in  the  said  schedule,  rendering  liia  iiccount  yearly 
at  the  Exchequer,  with  authority  to  enquire  into  (ho  value  of  tiic  premi.ses 
and  certify  thereon  to  the  king  and  council.  All  persons  from  whom  lie 
shall  receive  any  sums  by  pretext  of  these  letters  shall  l)e  quit,  so  that  the 
sheriffs  and  other  ministers  and  officers  of  the  king  shall  stay  the  levy  of 
such  sums  notwithstanding  any  mandates  or  summonses  of  the  Exchequer 
directed  to  them  in  respect  thereof.  He  shall  not  however  receive  any  sum 
less  than  40.s.  And  he  shall  retain  from  the  issues  of  the  premises  as 
much  as  shall  be  agreed  upon  between  himself  and  the  treasurer  by  an 
indenture  to  be  enrolled  in  the  Exchequer.  By  K. 

The  like  of  the  following  : — 

JVlaurice  Kydwelly,  in  the  counties  of  Hereford,  Gloucester,  Worcester, 
Wilts,  Oxford  and  Berks  and  the  town  of  Bristol. 

Nicholas  Lcventhorp,  in  the  counties  of  York,  Westmoreland,  Cum- 
berland and  Ncrthund)erland,  the  cities  of  York  and  Carlisle  and 
the  towns  of  Kyugcston  upon  Hull  and  Newcastle  upon  Tyne, 


348 


CALENDAR  OF  PATENT  ROLLS. 


1472.  Membrane  1 — cont. 

Robert  Plomer,  in  the  counties  of  Cambridge,  Huntingdon,  Essex, 
Hertford,  Bedford,  Buckingham,  Norfolk  and  Suflfolk  and  the  city 
of  Norwich. 

William  Brent,  in  the  counties  of  Kent,  Surrey,  Sussex  and  South- 
ampton, the  town  of  Southampton  and  the  city  of  Canterbury. 

Richard  Spert,  in  the  counties  of  Lincoln,  Northampton  and^Rutland 
and  the  city  of  Lincoln. 

Thomas  Hunt  and  John  York,  in  the  counties  of  Nottingham,  Derby, 
Stafford,  Salop,  Warwick  and  Leicester,  the  city  of  Coventry  and 
the  town  of  Nottingham. 

Aug.  20.       Grant  to  David  Hopton,  chaplain,  clerk  of  the  king's  closet,  of  the 
Westminster,  prebend  in  the  king's  college  of  St.  George  within  the  castle  of  Wyndesore 
void  by  the  death  of  Master  Baldwin  Hyde.  By  p.s. 

Mandate  in  pursuance  to  the  dean  and  chapter  of  the  college. 

Aug.  6.  Appointment  of  Thomas  Hunte  as  clerk  of  the  works  at  the  palace  of 
Westminster.  Westminster,  tlie  Tower  of  London,  the  castle  of  Wyndesore,  the  king's 
manors  of  Eltham,  Claryndon,  Groveley,  Melchet,  Finkeley,  Dyley, 
Bukholt,  Shene,  Chilterne  Langley  and  Odiham,  the  king's  lodges  within 
the  parks  of  Eltham,  Claryndon,  Chilterne  Langley  and  Odiham,  the  king's 
mews  for  falcons  by  Charyngcrouche  and  all  other  castles,  manors  and 
lodges  of  the  king  within  the  realm,  and  of  the  gardens,  stanks,  mills  and 
other  houses  and  enclosures  pertaining  to  the  same,  with  power  to  take 
stone-cutters,  plumbers,  carpenters,  masons  and  other  workmen,  and  stone, 
timber,  tiles,  shingles,  glass,  iron,  lead  and  other  necessaries  and  carriage 
for  the  same,  to  enquire  whether  any  of  such  materials  have  been  carried 
away  and,  if  so,  to  recover  the  same,  and  to  sell  branches,  bark  and  other 
residue  of  trees  provided  for  the  works,  receiving  the  accustomed  fees  in 
the  game  manner  as  Thomas  Stratton,  deceased,  or  any  other  occupant  of 
the  office.  By  p.s. 

Aug  26.  General  pardon  to  Edward  Grey  of  Asteley,  co.  Warwick,  knight,  alias 
Westminster,  late  of  Westminster,  co.  Middlesex,  alias  late  of  Groby,  co.  Leicester,  alias 
son  of  Edward  Grey,  knight,  late  lord  of  Ferrers  of  Groby,  of  all  offences 
committed  by  him  before  24  August  and  all  debts,  accounts  and  arrears 
due  from  him  to  the  king  ;  and  restoration  to  him  of  all  lands  or  tenements 
which  he  held  in  his  own  right  or  the  right  of  Elizabeth  his  wife.    By  p.s. 


Membrane  2M — 21d. 
Commissions  of  the  peace  in  various  counties.    {Sec  Appendix.) 


IfEMBRANE  26d. 

March  7.  Commission  of  array  to  the  king's  brothers  George,  duke  of  Clarence, 
Westminster,  and  Richard,  duke  of  Gloucester,  John  Straunge  of  Straunge,  knight,  John 
Sutton  of  Dudle,  knight,  William  Hastyiiges  of  Hastyngcs,  knight,  William 
Pane,  knight,  Thomas  Ferrers,  knight,  Simon  Montefort,  knight,  Richard 
Verney,  knight,  John  Grevile,  knight,  William  Lucy,  John  Hngford, 
Thomas  Burget,  Henry  Botiller,  John  West,  John  Beaufitz  and  the  slieriff, 
in  the  county  of  Warwick.  By  K. 

The  like  to  the  following  in  the  counties  named  : — 

George,  duke  of  Clarence,  Richard,  duke  of  Gloucester,  Edmund, 
carl  of  Kent,  Anthony  Grey,  knight,  Reginald  Grey,  knight,  John 
Sturgeon,  esquire,  John  Hervy,  esc^uire,  John  Forster,  esquire, 


12  EDWARD  IV.— Part  I. 


349 


1472.  Membrane  2Gd — cont. 

William  Herfcishorn,  esquire,  and  the  sheriflf,  in  the  county  of 
Bedford. 

George,  duke  of  Clarence,  Richard,  duke  of  Gloucester,  Edmund, 
earl  of  Kent,  Henry  Grey,  knight,  Edmund  Rede,  knight,  Richard 
Foweler,  John  Hervy,  Richard  Maryot,  John  Gifford,  William  Lucy, 
Richard  Bulstrode,  Richard  Lovell  and  the  sheriff,  in  the  county  of 
Buckingham. 

George,  duke  of  Clarence,  Richard,  duke  of  Gloucester,  John,  duke 
of  Suffolk,  John  Burghcher  of  Earners,  knight,  William  Norys, 
knight,  William  Trussell,  knight,  John  Cheyny,  esquire,  Thomas 
Dalamare  and  the^ sheriff,  in  the  county  of  Berks. 

George,  duke  of  Clarence,  Richard,  duke  of  Gloucester,  John 
Lescrope,  knight,  John  Cheyny,  knight,  Thomas  Grey,  knight,  John 
Alyngton,  William  Alyngtou,  John  Anste,  William  Frevile  and  the 
sheriff,  in  the  county  of  Cambridge. 

George,  duke  of  Clarence,  Richard,  duke  of  Gloucester,  Edmund, 
earl  of  Kent,  John,  earl  of  Wiltshire,  Anthony  Grey,  knight, 
William  Hastynges,  knight,  Ralph  Ilastynges,  knight,  Walter 
Mauntell,  knight,  Guy  Wolston,  John  Dyve,  William  Newenliam, 
John  Eltonbed,  Roger  Salesbury  and  the  sheriff,  in  the  county  of 
Northampton. 

George,  duke  of  Clarence,  Richard,  duke  of  Gloucester,  Henry,  earl 
of  Northumberland,  Ralph  Graystok  of  Graystok,  knight,  Thomaa 
Lumlcy,  knight,  Robert  Constable,  knight,  John  Constable,  knight, 
Robert  Helyard  the  elder,  John  Heytfeld  and  the  sheriff  of  York,  in 
the  East  Riding. 

George,  duke  of  Clarence,  Richard,  duke  of  Gloucester,  Henry,  carl 
of  Northumberland,  John,  carl  of  Shrewsbury,  Ralph  Graystok  of 
Graystok,  knight,  William  Stanley,  knight,  .John  Sayvile,  knight, 
John  Pylkyngton,  knight,  James  Haryngton,  knight,  Richard 
Fitz -William,  knight,  Hugh  Hastynges,  knight,  William  Plumton, 
knight,  William  Gascoigu  and  the  sheriff  of  York,  in  the  West 
Riding. 

George,  duke  of  Clarence,  Richard,  duke  of  Gloucester,  Henry,  carl 
of  Northumberland,  Ralph  Graystok  of  Graystok,  knight,  Thomas 
Lumley,  Henry  Fitz  Hugh,  knight,  James  Strangwys,  knight,  John 
Coiiyers,  knight,  John  Pykeryng,  knight,  Edmund  Hastynges, 
knight,  Ralph  Ayston,  knight,  William  Ewrc,  knight,  and  the 
sheriff  of  York,  in  the  North  Riding. 

George,  duke  of  Clarence,  Richard,  duke  of  Gloucester,  Henry,  earl 
of  Northumberland,  Humphrey  Dacre,  knight,  William  Parre, 
knight,  Thomas  Lanplcv,  knight,  John  Krakentliorp,  kuight, 
William  Lygh,  knight,  'J'homas  Curwen,  knight,  Thomas  Broughton, 
knight,  and  the  sheriff",  in  the  county  of  Cumberland. 

George,  duke  of  Clarence,  Richard,  duke  of  Gloucester,  John  Beau- 
champ  of  Powyk,  kuight,  Walter  Dcvereulx  of  Ferrers,  kuight, 
John  Botiller,  knight,  John  Grevyle,  knight,  Richard  Beauchanip, 
knight,  Maurice  Berkeley  of  Bevcrston,  knight,  John  Casay,  Thomas 
Baynham  and  the  sheriff',  in  the  county  of  Gloucester. 

George,  duke  of  Clarence,  Richard,  duke  of  Gloucester,  John  Sti'aung 
of  Straung,  knight,  Robert  Greuc,  knight,  Richard  Charleton,  John 
Elryngtou  the  younger,  William  ]\Iulso,  Richard  Turnaunt,  John 
Forster,  William  York,  John  Staunton,  John  AVrothe  and  Thomas 
Luce,  in  the  county  of  Middlesex. 

George,  duke  of  Clarence,  Richard,  duke  of  Gloucester,  John,  earl  of 
Shrewsbury,  Henry  Grey  of  Codnore,  knight,  William  Hastynges 
of  Jlasl-yuges,  knight,  Nicholas  Laugl'ord,  kuight,  Henry  Vernon, 


350 


CALENDAR  OF  PATENT  ROLLS. 


1472.  Membrane  26d — coni. 

John  Bothe,  Nicholas  Fitzherbert,  Robert  Eyre  and  the  sheriff,  in 
the  county  of  Derby. 

George,  duke  of  Clarence,  Richard,  duke  of  Gloucester,  William 
Hastynges  of  Hastynges,  knight,  Thomas  Berkeley,  knight,  William 
Motou,  knight,  Robert  Staunton,  William  Aysly,  Geoffrey  Sherard 
and  the  sheriff,  in  the  county  of  Leicester. 

George,  duke  of  Clarence,  Richard,  duke  of  Gloucester,  Edmund, 
earl  of  Kent,  John,  earl  of  Wiltshire,  Walter  Blount,  knight,  Richard 
Sapcote,  John  Forster,  esquire,  John  Stukeley,  John  Knyvet,  Henry 
Torkyngton  and  the  sheriff,  in  the  county  of  Huntingdon. 

George,  duke  of  Clarence,  Richard,  duke  of  Gloucester,  John  Say, 
knight,  John  Leveuthorp,  Henry  Barley,  John  Forster,  John 
Sturgeon,  Thomas  Leventhorp,  John  Feld  and  the  sheriff,  in  the 
county  of  Hertford. 

George,  duke  of  Clarence,  Richard,  duke  of  Gloucester,  Roger  Grey 
of  Wilton,  knight,  Walter  Devereulx  of  Ferrers,  knight,  John 
Devereulx,  knight,  Richard  Croft,  knight,  John  Lyngen,  knight, 
Thomas  Cornwaill,  knight,  James  Bascarvile,  knight,  Euotace 
Whyteney  and  the  sheriff,  in  the  county  of  Hereford. 

George,  duke  of  Clarence,  Richard,  duke  of  Gloucester,  John,  earl  of 
Shrewsbury,  Henry  Codnore  (sic)  of  Codnore,  knight,  William 
Hastynges  of  Hastynges,  knight,  Thomas  Burgh,  knight,  Robert 
Markham,  knight,  Robert  Clyfton,  knight,  Henry  Perpoynt,  knight, 
Robert  Sutton,  WiUiam  Meryng  and  the  sheriff,  in  the  county  of 
Nottingham. 

Membrane  25d. 

George,  duke  of  Clarence,  Richard,  duke  of  Gloucester,  Henry,  earl 
of  Northumberland,  Ralph  Graystok  of  Graystok,  knight,  Thomas 
Lomley,  knight,  Robert  de  Ogle,  knight,  John  Wydryngtou,  John 
Lilborys  the  elder,  Roger  Herne,  Thomas  Moresley,  John 
Cartyngton  and  the  sheriff,  in  the  county  of  Northumberland. 

George,  duke  of  Clarence,  Richard,  duke  of  Gloucester,  John,  duke  of 
Suffolk,  Richard  Quadermains,  Richard  Foweler,  Thomas  Stouer, 
William  Marinyon,  Richard  Davers,  Richard  Croft,  Humphrey 
Forster,  John  Langston,  Richard  Halle  and  the  sheriff,  in  the  county 
of  Oxford. 

George,  duke  of  Clarence,  Richard,  duke  of  Gloucester,  John,  earl 
of  Wiltshire,  William  Hastynges  of  Hastynges,  knight,  Thomas 
Berkeley,  knight,  Thomas  Flore,  William  Husee,  John  Browe, 
Edward  Dygby  and  the  sheriff,  in  the  county  of  Rutland. 

George,  duke  of  Clarence,  Richard,  duke  of  Gloucester,  John  Audeley 
of  Audeley,  knight,  William  Stourton  of  Stourton,  knight,  William 
Paulet,  knight,  John  Cheync  of  Pynne,  knight,  Henry  Hull, 
Thomas  Begonell,  Thomas  Tremayll,  John  Fitz.James,  Robert 
Stowell,  John  Porter  and  the  sheriff,  in  the  county  of  Somerset. 

George,  duke  of  Clarence,  Richard,  duke  of  Gloucester,  Henry,  earl  of 
Northumberland,  Humphrey  Dacre  of  Dacre,  knight,  William  Parre, 
knight,  Thomas  Strykclaud,  knight,  Christopher  Moresby,  knight, 
Thomas  Bate,  Nicholas  Taverner,  John  Wharton  and  the  sheriff,  in 
the  county  of  Westmoreland. 

George,  duke  of  Clarence,  Richard,  duke  of  Gloucester,  John 
Beauchamp  of  Powyk,  knight,  John  Sutton  of  Dudley,  knight, 
Richard  Beauchamp,  knight,  Walter  Skulle,  knight,  Iluinphrey 
Stallord,  knight,  Thomas  Throgmorton,  Thomas  Evordon,  Thomas 
Lygon  and  the  sheriff,  in  the  county  of  Worcester. 


J  2  EDWARD  IV.— Part  I. 


351 


1472.  /  Membrane  25d — cont. 

George,  duke  of  Clarence,  Kichard,  duke  of  Gloucester,  Edward 
Nevylle  of  Bergevenney,  knight,  Johu  Audeley  of  Audeley,  knight, 
John  Bourgchier  of  Berners,  knight,  Richard  Fenys  of  Dacre, 
knight,  George  Nevyle,  knight,  George  Broun,  knight,  Thomas 
Selynger,  Nicholas  Gaynesl'ord,  John  Elyngbrigge,  Eobert  VVynters- 
hill  and  the  sheriff,  in  the  county  of  Surrey. 

George,  duke  of  Clarence,  Richard,  duke  of  Gloucester,  Humphrey  (sic), 
duke  of  Buckingham,  John,  earl  of  Shrewsbury,  John,  earl  of 
Wiltshire,  John  Audeley  of  Audeley,  knight,  Henry  Grey  of 
Codnore,  knight,  John  Suttou  of  Dudley,  knight,  William  Hastynges 
of  Hastynges,  knight,  Walter  Blount  of  Mountjoye,  knight.  John 
Stanley,  knight,  Hugh  Egerton,  John  Harper,  William  Cumberford, 
John  Acton,  Richard  Bagot,  William  Basset,  Roger  Bailly  and  the 
sheriff,  in  tlie  county  of  Stafford. 

George,  duke  of  Clarence,  Richard,  duke  of  Gloucester,  William,  earl 
of  Arundell,  John  Audeley  of  Audeley,  knight,  William  Stourton  of 
Stourton,  knight,  Roger  Tocotes,  knight,  John  Wilughby,  knight, 
Maurice  Berkeley,  knight,  Henry  Long,  Thomas  Rogers  and  the 
sheriff,  in  the  county  of  Wilts. 

March  7,.  Commission  of  array  to  the  king's  brothers  George,  duke  of  Clarence, 
Westmiuster.  and  Richard,  duke  of  Gloucester,  the  king's  kinsmen  John,  duke  of 
Norfolk,  and  William,  earl  of  Arundel,  Richard  Fenys  of  Dacre,  knight, 
William  Hastynges  of  Hastynges,  knight,  George  Nevyle,  knight,  Roger 
Lewkenore,  knight,  Thomas  Vaghan,  Thomas  Hoo,  .Tohn  Devenyssh, 
Bartholomew  Bolney,  Nicholas  INIorley,  John  Dudley,  William  Cheyny, 
Vincent  Fynche,  Thomas  Lcukenore  and  the  sheriff,  in  the  county  of 
Sussex  for  defence  against  the  king's  enemies,  French,  Easterlings  and 
others. 

The  like  to  the  following  in  the  counties  named  : — 

George,  duke  of  Clarence,  Richard,  duke  of  Gloucester,  William,  earl 
of  Arundell,  Thomas  Arundel  of  Matravers,  knight,  John  Audeley 
of  Audeley,  knight,  William  Stourton  of  Stourton,  knight,  Maurice 
Berkeley  of  Beverston,  knight,  Thomas  Ovcdale,  knight,  William 
Sandes,  knight,  Edward  Berkeley,  Thomas  Welle,  .John  Walop, 
Thomas  Pound,  Henry  Moore  and  the  sheriff,  in  the  county  of 
Southampton. 

George,  duke  of  Clarence,  Richard,  duke  of  Gloucester,  Johu  Colshill, 
knight,  Robert  Wilughby,  knight,  Henry  Bodrugan,  John  F(ntcscu, 
esquire,  Edward  A)stou,  Thomas  Trefry,  John  Penpons  and  the 
shoriir,  in  the  county  of  Cornwall. 

George,  duke  of  Clarence,  Richard,  duke  of  Gloucester,  Fulk,  loid  of 
Fitz  Warcn,  knight,  John  Dynliam  of  Dyuhani,  knight,  William 
Courtenay,  knight,  Robert  Wilughby,  knight,  Philip  Courtenay, 
knight,  John  Crokker,  knight,  Philip  Beaumond,  escpiire,  Charles 
])ynham,  esquire,  Roger  Dynham,  escjuire,  John  Halewell,  John 
Denys,  Thomas  Calwodcley,  William  Fowell,  Christopher  Coke, 
Thomas  Hextc  and  the  sheriff,  in  the  county  of  Devon. 

George,  duke  of  Clarence,  Richard,  duke  of  Gloucester,  John  Audeley 
of  Audeley,  knight,  William  Stourton  of  Stourton,  knight,  Nicholas 
Ijatymer,  knight,  John  Carant  the  younger,  Henry  Ilulle,  William 
Brounyng,  Tiioiuas  Husy  and  the  sherilf,  in  the  county  of  J3orset. 

George,  duke  of  Clarence,  Richard,  duke  of  Gloucester,  Henry,  carl  of 
Essex,  William  JJourghchier,  kuight,  Thomas  Mongomery,  knight, 
Thomas  Terell,  knight,  Laurence  Reynford,  knight,  Richard  Haute, 
.John  Grcuc,  AVaUcr  Writell,  Alvted  Cornburgh  and  the  sherifi,  in 
tile  county  ol'  Essex. 


352 


CALENDAR  OF  PATENT  ROLLS. 


1472.  Membrane  25d~-cont. 

George,  duke  of  Clarence,  Richard,  duke  of  Gloucester,  William,  earl  of 
Arundell,  Edward  Nevylle  of  Bergevenny,  knight,  Thomas  Cobham, 
knight,  Thomas  Bourghchier,  knight,  John  Fogge,  knight,  George 
Broun,  knight,  Henry  Ferrers,  knight,  John  Colpeper,  knight, 
William  Haute,  knight,  James  Pecham,  John  Brymston,  Richard 
Colpeper,  John  Isley  and  the  sheriff,  in  the  county  of  Kent. 

George,  duke  of  Clarence,  Richard,  duke  of  Gloucester,  Thomas  Burgh, 
knight,  Richard  Hastynges,  knight,  Nicholas  Bowet,  knight,  Robert 
Ratclyf,  Robert  Tailboys,  William  Husee,  Simon  Hervy,  Oliver 
Sent  John  and  the  sherifP,  in  the  parts  of  Kesteven. 

George,  duke  of  Clarence,  Richard,  duke  of  Gloucester,  Thomas  Burgh, 
knight,  Richard  Hastynges,  knight,  William  Skipwith,  Robert 
Ratcliff,  Robert  Tailboys,  Marmaduke  Constable,  John  Whichecotes, 
Robert  Sheffield,  Thomas  Kyme  of  Frisney,  John  Ascu,  Bernard 
Missynden,  John  Disney  and  the  sheriff,  in  the  parts  of  Lynsey. 

George,  duke  of  Clarence,  Richard,  duke  of  Gloucester,  Thomas  Burgh, 
knight,  Richard  Hastynges,  knight,  Robert  Markham,  knight, 
Richard  Welby,  Brian  Talbot,  John  Leke,  Leonard  Thornburgh, 
John  Bolies  and  the  sheriff,  in  the  parts  of  Holand. 

George,  duke  of  Clarence,  Richard,  duke  of  Gloucester,  John,  duke 
of  Norfolk,  John,  duke  of  Suffolk,  John  Wyngfeld,  knight,  Robert 
Wyngfeld,  knight,  Richard  Harecourt,  knight,  Gilbert  Debenham, 
knight,  John  Hevenyngham,  knight,  William  Brandon,  knight, 
Henry  Hedon,  John  Twyer,  Richard  Suthwell  and  the  sheriff,  in  the 
county  of  Norfolk. 

George,  duke  of  Clarence,  Richard,  duke  of  Gloucester,  John,  duke 
of  Norfolk,  John,  duke  of  Suffolk,  Henry,  earl  of  Essex,  Robert 
Wyngfeld,  knight,  John  Wyngfeld,  knight,  Gilbert  Debenham, 
knight,  John  Hevenyngham,  knight,  Thomas  Brews,  knight,  William 
Brandon,  knight,  Gilbert  Debenham,  esquire,  John  Suliard,  James 
Hobert  and  the  sheriff,  in  the  county  of  Suffolk. 


Membranes  24d  and  2Sd. 
Commissions  of  the  peace  in  various  counties.    (See  Appendix.) 


Membrane  \M. 

March  7.       Commission  to  John  Bygge,  esquire,  William  Nores,  John  Clerk  and 
West  minster.  Eichard   Coffaham   to   arrest   Ingelram,   abbot   of    the   monastery  of 
St.  Radegund,  co.  Kent,  and  bring  him  before  the  king  in  Chancery. 

March  12.  Commission  to  John  Davyson,  clerk,  Richard  Forster,  keeper,  surveyor 
Westminster,  and  approve^'  of  all  the  swans  of  the  king's  mere  called  Wytlesmere  and  any 
other  mere  or  water  in  the  counties  of  Huntingdon,  Cambridge,  Lincoln 
and  Northampton,  Richard  Welby,  John  Elryngton,  Thomas  Kyme,  Simon 
Burton,  Robert  Bokkyng,  John  Wychecote  and  William  Calowe  to  enquire 
into  the  taking  of  swans  and  cygnets  with  hooks,  nets,  limed  strings  and 
other  engines  and  the  theft  of  swans'  eggs  in  the  said  places. 


Membrane  \7d. 

April  18.       Commission  to  Richard  Fowler,  Richard  Croft  the  younger,  Richard 
Westminister.  Carryk,  mayor  of  Odcstoke,  and  Thomas  Chambur  and  Robert  Spaldyng, 
Serjeants  atarms,  to  arrest  Cliristophcr  Harecourt  of  Long  Combe,  co.  Oxford, 
'  geutilmau,'  and  bring  him  before  the  king  in  council. 


12  EDWARD  IV.— Part  I. 


353 


1472.  Membrane  17d — cont. 

April  16.       The  like  to  William  Plumton,  kniglit,  Ealpli  Snaith  and  Nicholas 
Westminster.  Leventhorp  to  arrest  Thomas  Fulbarn,  *  gentilman,'  and  bring  him  before 
the  king  in  Chancery. 

April  22.       The  like  to  John  Wynkefeld,  knight,  Robert  Wynkefeld,  knight,  Richard 
Westminster.  Harecourt,  knight,  and  William  Calthorp,  knight,  to  arrest  John  Burges  of 
Norwich,  *  yoman,'  and  John  Grey  of  Hemmesby,  co.  Norfolk, '  yoman,'  and 
bring  them  before  the  king  in  Chancery. 

Membrane  ISd. 

April  28.  Commission  of  oyer  and  terminer  to  the  king's  brothers  George,  duke  of 
Westminster.  Clarence,  and  Richard,  duke  of  Gloucester,  the  king's  kinsman,  Henry,  carl 
of  Essex,  John  Audeley  of  Audeley,  knight,  John  Sutton  of  Dudley,  knight, 
John  Bourghchier  of  Earners,  knight,  Walter  Blount  of  Mount  Joye,  knight, 
Thomas  Billyng,  Thomas  Bryan,  John  Nedeham,  knight,  William  Laken, 
Richard  Chokke,  knight,  Thomas  Littelton,  Richard  Neele,  Roger  Ree, 
knight,  and  Robert  Grene,  kni":ht,  in  the  counties  of  Middlesex  and  Hertford. 

ByK. 

April  17.  Commission  to  Thomas  Walgrave,  knight,  the  mayor  and  sheriff  of 
Westminster.  Kyngeston  on  Hull,  Richard  Doughty  and  Dominic  Bukton  to  inquire  into 
the  complaint  of  William  Hardynghani,  merchant  of  the  realm,  that  when 
on  25  June,  10  Edward  IV,  he  was  sailing  to  Holand  in  a  ship  called 
la  Margaret  of  Leystoft  laden  with  divers  goods  and  merchandise  of  his 
he  was  captured  in  a  place  called  Kirkeley  Roile  by  Robert  Lavcrok  of 
Hull,  *  maryner,'  Thomas  Woderoue  of  Hull,  Robert  Maunche  of  Hull, 
W^iUiam  Sharper  of  Hull,  Richard  Ottys  of  Hull,  William  Malard  of  Hull, 
Richard  Waynesford  of  Hull,  '  maryner,'  John  Colle  of  Hull,  '  maryuer,' 
John  Halle  of  Hull,  John  Rychard,  'maryner,'  William  Saltmcrssh, 
'  maryner,'  William  Carleton  of  Hedon,  '  maryner,'  William  Welton  of 
Hesyll,  '  maryner,' and  Henry  Metton,  'maryner,'  and  other  pirates  in  a 
ship  called  le  Trijuyte  of  Hull,  of  which  the  said  Robert  Laverok  was 
master,  and  despoiled  of  the  said  goods  and  merchandise,  and  to  seize  the 
said  goods  and  merchandise  and  put  them  in  safe  custody  and  to  arrest 
the  offenders  and  bring  them  before  the  king  in  Chancery. 

May  10.  Commission  of  array  to  the  king's  brothers  George,  duke  of  Clarence  and 
Westminster.  Richard,  duke  of  Gloucester,  the  king's  kinsmen  John,  duke  of  Norfolk, 
John,  duke  of  Suifolk,  and  Henry,  earl  of  Essex,  Robert  Wyngfeld,  knight, 
John  Wyngfeld,  knight,  Gilbert  Debeuham,  knight,  John  Henyngham, 
knight,  Tlrt)mas  Brewes,  knight,  William  Brandon,  knight,  Gilbert  Debeu- 
ham, esquire,  John  Sulyard,  James  Ilobard,  Alexander  Cressener,  Robert 
Crane,  William  Ilopton,  William  Alyngton,  Robert  Inglose,  Robert  Hopton, 
William  Joce  and  John  Tymperle,  in  the  county  of  Suffolk,  for  defence 
against  tlie  king's  enemies,  French,  Easterlings  and  others. 

The  like  to  George,  duke  of  Clarence,  Richard,  duke  of  Gloucester, 
John,  duke  of  Norfolk,  John,  duke  of  Suffolk,  Robert  Wyngfeld,  knight, 
John  Wyngfeld,  knight,  Richard  Harecourt,  knight,  Gilbert  Debenhain, 
knight,  John  Hevenyngham,  knight,  William  Brandon,  knight,  William 
Calthorp,  knight,  Henry  Hedon,  Roger  Tliwyer,  Richard  Southwell,  John 
Oonyers,  John  Hastyuges,  John  Twyer  and  William  Tyndale,  in  the  county 
of  Norfolk. 

Membrane  i2d. 

March  12.  Commisaion  to  the  king's  kinsman  William,  earl  of  Arundel,  constable  of 
Westminster.  Dover  Castlc  and  warden  of  the  Cinque  Ports,  Nicholas  Bierton,  mayor  of 

y  96186.  Z 


354 


CALENDAR  OF  PATENT  ROLLS. 


1472.  Membrane  12d — cont. 

Sandwich,  and  John  Alday  to  inquire  into  the  complaint  of  Domyngo 
Demascata,  John  Demascata  and  John  Garce,  merchants  of  Spain,  that 
whereas  relying  on  the  truces  between  the  king  and  his  kinsman  the  king  of 
Castile  and  Leon  on  18  October,  10  Edward  IV.  they  were  sailing  to 
Sandwich  in  a  carvel  of  Spain  called  la  Marie  de  Keyte  of  the  portage  of 
64  tuns,  laden  with  wines  and  other  goods  and  merchandise,  they  were 
seized  by  certain  pirate  lieges  of  the  king  in  a  ship  of  England  called 
le,  Marye  Welfare  of  which  Robert  Teyge  was  then  master,  victualled  by 
Richard  Robyns,  Henry  Stede  and  Thomas  Cokke,  and  despoiled  of  the 
said  ship  and  its  gear  and  the  said  wines,  goods  and  merchandise  to  the 
value  of  420/.  and  to  cause  restitution  to  be  made  and  to  arrest  the  offenders 
and  bring  them  before  the  king  in  Chancery. 

July  6.         Commission  de  walliis  et  fossatis  to  Richard  Hastynges,  knight,  Thomas 
Westminster.  Burgh,  knight,  William  Skypwith,  knight,  Robert  Taylboys,  Robert  Ratclyf, 
Robert  Sheffeld,  Thomas  Kyme  of  Frysney,  Thomas  FitzWilliam  the 
younger,  Thomas  Moigne,  John  Whychecote,  Thomas  Knyght,  Richard 
Spert  and  John  Walton  within  the  parts  of  Lyndesey,  co.  Lincoln. 

Nov.  14,        The  like  to  Th.  prior  of  Spaldyng,  Richard  Welby,  Leonard  Thornburgh, 
Westminster.  Richard  Pynchebek,  John  Bolles,  Robert  Dokkyng,  Richard  Fendyk, 
Thomas  Totoche,  John  Leek,  John  Tomworth,  Richard  Thymylby  and 
Robert  Tylney  from  Dodyngton  to  Pygot  and  from  thence  to  Tydgote  and 
from  thence  to  Skegnesse  in  the  county  of  Lincoln. 

1473.  Membrane  \\d. 

Feb.  16.       The  like  to  Humphrey  Stafford,  John  Cole,  John  Acton,  John  Whorde, 
Westminster.  John  Philip,  Robert  Cresset,  John  Storche,  Roger  Haghton,  John  Crabbe, 
and  John  Price  on  the  Severn  from  Worcester  bridge  to  Brathen,  co. 
Salop. 

Feb.  18.       The  like  to  Robert  Constable,  knight,  Walter  Gryffyth,  knight,  Robert 
Westminster.  Hillard  the  elder,  William  Eland  and  Stephen  Copyndale  on  the  east  side 
of  the  way  which  leads  from  Hesyll  to  Bayuton  and  from  Baynton  to 
Bridlyngton  and  thence  to  the  sea  by  Holdernesse  and  other  places  on  the 
east  and  south  of  the  above  in  the  East  Riding  of  the  county  of  York. 


1472.  Membrane  \0d. 

May  20.  Commission  to  John  Crokker,  kniglit,  John  Fortescue,  Henry  Bodrugan, 
Westminster.  John  Penpons,  Thomas  Arundell,  and  the  sheriff  of  Cornwall  to  enquire 
into  the  complaint  of  John  le  Mercier  of  Croesic  in  Brittany,  merchant, 
master  of  a  ship  of  Brittany  called  le  Saint  Gonstain  of  the  portage  of 
100  tuns,  tliat  when  this  ship  laden  with  divers  goods  of  his  to  tlie  value 
of  200  marks  in  April,  10  Edward  IV.  was  sailing  from  Waterford  in 
Ireland  to  Brittany  certain  pirates  in  a  ship  of  Porthea  in  Cornwall,  of 
which  William  Whyte  was  master  and  James  Nicoll,  Peter  Jakhary,  John 
Poulperre  aud  Thomas  Linom  of  Bodmyn  were  victuallers,  seized  it  near  the 
coast  at  le  Cape  of  Cornwall  and  despoiled  it  of  the  said  goods,  contrary  to 
the  form  of  truces  between  the  king  and  his  kinsman  the  duke  of  Brittany, 
and  to  arrest  and  imprison  the  offenders  and  cause  restitution  to  be  made. 

May  21.  The  like  to  the  sheriff  of  Cornwall  to  enquire  into  the  complaint  of 
Westminster.  William  Whityngton,  John  Poke  and  Thomas  Sexten,  merchants  of  Bristol, 
that  whereas  on  3  April  last  they  shipped  divers  woollen  cloths  to  the  value 
of  250/.  in  two  ships  of  Spain  called  le  Katcryne  and  le  Nicholas  to  take  to 
Spain  certain  pirates  in  two  ships  of  Cornwall  called  le  Edward  and  le 
Barbara,  of  which  Jolin  Gay  and  John  Barkeley  were  masters,  seized  the 
said  ships  of  Spain  and  carried  off  the  said  cloths  to  Cornwall,  and  to  seize 
the  said  cloths  and  put  them  in  safe-custody. 


12  EDWARD  IV.— Part  I. 


355 


1472.  Membrane  lOd — cont. 

June  1.  Commission  to  William  Bere,  master  of  a  ship  called  le  George  Howard, 
"Westminster,  to  take  mariners  for  the  said  ship  for  the  resistance  of  the  king's  enemies. 

The  like  to  the  following : — 

John  Skynner,  master  of  a  ship  called  le  Petyr  of  Harwyche. 
Thomas  Payn,  master  of  a  ship  called  le  Old  Barge  of  Caleys. 
William  Parker,  master  of  a  ship  called  le  Margarete  Howard. 
John  Eawelyns,  master  of  a  ship  called  le  Kervyll  of  Maydenhede. 
William  Legge,  master  of  a  ship  called  le  Old  Elyn  of  London. 
William  Fetherston,  master  of  a  ship  called  le  Spencer,  and  William 

Racheford,  master  of  a  ship  called  le  Mary  Flowre. 
Richard  Dokkyng,  master  of  a  ship  called  le  Mary  Flowre  of 

London. 

John  Cole,  master  of  a  ship  called  le  Trinite  Cole. 


Membrane  9c?. 


April  30. 
Westminster. 


June  24. 
Westminster. 

June  7. 
Westminster. 


June  13. 

Westminster. 

June  18. 
Westminster. 


June  19.. 

Westminster. 

June  22. 
Westminster. 

June  23. 
Westminster. 


Commission  to  Roger  Clyfford,  knight,  William  Plompton,  knight,  John 
Pudsay,  knight,  John  Popeley,  Thomas  Middelton,  Wilham  Bradford  and 
the  sheriff  of  York  to  enquire  what  lauds  Richard  Tempest,  knight,  tenant 
in  chief,  held  in  tlie  said  county  on  the  day  of  his  death  and  when  he  died 
and  who  is  his  next  heir  and  to  take  the  lands  into  the  king's  hands. 

The  like  to  Roger  Clyfford,  knight,  William  Husee,  Richard  Welbe, 
John  Bolles,  William  Bradford  and  the  sheriff,  in  the  county  of  Lincoln. 

Commission  to  Jenicot  de  Burdeux,  master  of  a  ship  called  le  I^ewebarge 
of  Calais,  to  take  mariners  for  the  said  ship  for  the  resistance  of  the  king's 
enemies. 

The  like  to  the  following  : — 

John  Kyryell,  esquire,  captain  of  a  .ship  called  le  Garse. 
Robert  Baldre,  master  of  a  ship  called  la  Bastian. 
Peter  Thressher,  master  of  a  ship  called  Ic  Kalcryne. 

Thomas  Benet,  master  of  a  ship  called  la  Kervell  of  Tooke. 

Richard  Dokkyng,  master  of  a  ship  called  le  Marye  Floure  of 
London. 

William  Legge,  master  of  a  ship  called  le  Elen. 

William  Parker,  master  of  a  ship  called  le  Margaret  Howard. 

Robert  Lyghtarnes,  master  of  a  ship  called  le  Seynt  Petre  the  Martyr 
of  J  cane. 

Roger  Trewemau,  master  of  a  ship  called  le  Trynyte. 

Nicholas  Laken,  esquire,  governor  of  a  ship  called  le  Antonye  Camfer. 


Membrane  8d. 

Sept.  11.  Commission  to  William  ITolbek,  mayor  of  York,  Thomas  Ncleson,  Thomas 
Westminster.  Wrangwysshe  and  John  Martyn,  .scrjeaut  at  arms,  on  comphiiut  by  Robert 
lluby,  prior  of  the  monastery  of  Holy  Trinity,  Y-ork,  that  Robert  Marshall 
and  John  Garlond,  monks  'of  that  place,  have  put  off  the  habit  of  their 
religion  and  gathered  together  Tiiomas  Topshawe,  '  sadder,'  Richard  Swan, 
'  shomaker,'  William  Walker,  '  shermau,'  and  Christopher  Bentcley  and 
other  evildoers  and  gone  to  the  monastery,  entered  into  divers  of  its  lands 
and  possessions,  wasted  the  issues  and  goods  and  threatened  the  prior  and 
his  fellow  monks,  to  arrest  the  said  Robert,  John,  Thomas,  Richard 


356 


CALENDAR  OF  PATENT  ROLLS. 


1472.  Membrane  %d — cont. 

William  and  Christopher  and  other  offenders  and  bring  them  before  tho 
king  in  Chancery. 

Membrane  Id. 

July  31.  Commission  to  the  king's  kinsman  William  eai-1  of  Arundell,  Thomas 
"Westminster.  Matravers  of  Matravers,  knight,  Maurice  Berkeley,  knight,  Edward 
Berkeley  and  Thomas  Welles  to  take  muster  at  some  place  near 
Southampton  of  the  men  at  arms,  armed  men  and  archers  in  the  retinue  of 
Galliard  de  Dureford,  lord  of  Duras,  whom  the  king  has  ordered  to  go 
beyond  the  seas  to  resist  his  enemies,  and  to  certify  thereon  to  the  king 
and  council. 

Membrane  5d. 

July  12.        Commission  to  Thomas  Fulford,  knight,  Robert  Stowell,  Richard  Werre, 
Westminster.  .John  Chererell,  John  Mompesson  and  John  Kendale,  mayor  of  Brigge- 
water,  to  arrest  William  Gosse  and  John  Gosse  and  bring  them  before  the 
king  and  council  on  the  quinzaine  of  Michaelmas  next. 

July  13.  Commission  to  the  sheriff  of  Devon  to  arrest  Nicholas  Ware  and  John 
Westminster.  Sawele  and  bring  them  before  the  king  and  council. 

Membrane  2d. 

June  16.       Commission  to  Thomas  Burgh,  knight,  Thomas   Belowed,  Edward 
Westminster.  Madison  and  Thomas  Beywyke  to  arrest  Robert  Forster  of  Aleynflete  and 
bring  him  before  the  king  and  council. 

July  13.        Commission  to  Robert  Cosyn,  Thomas  Horseley  and  Richard  Simond  to 
Westminster,  repair  a  ship  of  the  king  called  le  Grace  de  Dieu  and  to  take  smiths, 
carpenters  and  other  workmen  and  timber,  iron,  boards,  canvas,  pitch  and 
other  necessaries  for  the  repair  of  the  ship  and  the  construction  of  a  mast 
and  carriage  for  the  same.  By  K. 

Membrane  \d. 

Aug.  26.       Commission  to  John  Child  and  Thomas  Tebbe  to  take  horses,  oxen  and 
Westminster,  beasts  of  burden  for  the  carriage  of  certain  bombards  and  other  habiliments 
of  war  which  the  king  has  ordered  to  be  sent  to  the  north. 


357 


12  EDWARD  IV.— Part  II. 


1472. 

Oct.  8. 
Westminster, 


Oct.  7. 
Westminster. 

Oct.  15. 
Westminster. 


Oct.  14. 
Westminster. 


Oct.  20. 
Westminster. 


May  1. 

Westminster. 


Oct.  29, 
Westminster. 


Nov.  2. 
Westminster. 


Oct.  31. 
Westminster. 

Nov.  11. 
Westminster. 


Membrane  33. 

Graut  to  Edward  Brampton  mid  the  heirs  male  of  his  body,  for  his  good 
service  to  the  king  in  many  battles,  of  all  messuages,  tenements,  rents,  and 
possessions  late  of  John  Kyng,  clerk,  within  the  city  of  London  which  John 
Tunley  lately  had  of  the  grant  of  Henry  IV.  to  hold  from  Midsummer  last 
without  rendering  anything  to  the  king  and  without  fine  or  fee.        By  p.s. 

Letters  of  denization  for  the  said  Edward  Brampton,  born  in  the  realm  of 
Portugal.  By  p.s. 

Grant  to  John  Davyson,  king's;  clerk,  keeper  of  the  hanaper  of  Chancery, 
of  tlie  canonry  and  prebend  of  the  Mass  of  St.  Mary  in  the  chapel  of 
St.  Mary  in  the  Fields,  Norwich,  void  by  the  death  of  Simon  Thornham, 
last  prebendary,  and  in  the  king's  gift  by  reason  of  the  bishopric  of  Norwich 
being  lately  void  and  in  his  hands.  By  p.s. 

Mandate  in  pursuance  to  the  dean  of  the  said  free  chapel. 

Pardon  to  John  Dey  of  Woxbrygge,  co.  Middlesex,  '  milner,'  of  his 
outlawry  in  the  said  county  for  not  appearing  before  the  king  to  answer  him 
for  certain  trespasses,  he  having  surrendered  to  the  Marshalsea  prison,  as 
Thomas  Byllyng,  chief  justice  of  the  King's  Bench,  has  certified. 

Tnspeximus  of  a  charter  of  Ralph  Basset  of  Drayton,  sealed  with  his 
seal,  granting  to  William  Jones  of  Midelton  and  his  heirs  or  assigns  his 
bondman  John  Trewemon  with  all  liis  issue  and  chattels.  Witnesses : — 
John  Dulee,  Roger  Kyde,  chaplain,  Ralph  de  hi  Bache  and  others. 
Dated  at  Drayton  Basset,  Friday  before  the  Annunciation,  26  Edward  HI. 

Grant  to  John  Colepeper,  knight,  and  his  heirs  and  assigns  of  a  tenement 
called  '  Shclles  Tenement '  in  the  parish  of  St.  INIary  Stauyng,  London, 
lately  in  ruins,  wliich  he  has  repaired  at  his  own  cost,  to  hold  by  the  accus- 
tomed rent  and  services,  with  all  issues  from  Michaelmas,  10  Edward  IV. 

By  p.s. 

Whereas  John  Chiiuntrcll  of  Bedyngton,  co.  Surrey,  'yoman,'  and 
John  Baldewyn  of  Croydon,  co.  Surrey,  '  yoman,'  by  a  writing  dated  27 
June,  10  Edward  IV.  bound  themselves  to  William  Burton,  citizen  and 
draper  of  London,  in  100  marks  sterling  payable  at  a  specified  day,  and  the 
said  William  Burton  was  outlawed  in  the  county  of  Sussex  at  Ciccstro  on 
3  October  following  at  the  suit  of  the  king,  the  king  hereby  pardous  to  the 
said  John  the  said  sum  of  100  marks.  By  p.s. 

Exemplification,  at  the  rccpiest  of  Peter  a  Clyf  of  Suthampton,  merchant, 
of  the  tenour  of  the  enrolment  of  letters  patent  dated  1  September, 
11  Edward  IV.  granting  licence  for  him  to  ship  wool-fells  quit  of  customs 
and  subsidies  to  the  sum  of  20  marks  in  the  ports  of  Suthampton,  Slioreham, 
and  Weymouth.  These  letters  have  been  lost  by  accident,  as  he  has  taken 
oath  in  Chancery,  and  will  be  surrendered  if  found. 

Grant  for  life  to  John  Whitmore  of  the  deanery  of  the  college  of  St.  Mary, 
Shrewsbury,  void  by  the  resignation  of  Master  John  Blakeweyu,  the  king's 
sub-almoner.  By  p.s. 

Appointment,  during  pleasure,  of  Richard  Mourton  as  controller  of  the 
great  and  petty  custom,  the  subsidy  of  wools,  hides  and  wool-fells  and  the 
subsidy  of  the  3s.  in  the  tun  and  the  \2d,  in  the  pound  in  the  port  of  Pole 
and  ports  and  places  adjacent,  receiving  the  accustomed  fees,  provided  that 
he  execato  the  oflBce  in  person,  with  tiio  custody  of  one  part  of  the  coket 
seal.  By  bill  of  the  treasurer. 


358 


CALENDAR  OF  PATENT  ROLLS. 


1472.  Membrane  32. 

Oct.  15.        Mandate  to  all  sheriffs,  mayors,  bailiffs,  ministers  and  others  to  arrest 
Westminster,  certain  monks  of  the  priory  of  St.  Andrew,  Northampton,  of  the  Cluniac 
order,  who  have  put  off  their  habit  and  spurned  the  obedience  of  their 
superiors  and  wander  about,  and  to  deliver  them  to  the  superiors  of  their 
order  for  chastisement.  "  By  p.s. 

Oct.  17.        Presentation  of  Elias  Welshe,  chaplain,  to  the  perpetual  chantry  of 
Westminster.  St.  Luke  Evangelist  in  Neuton  Popilford  of  and  within  the  parish  of 
Aillesbeare,  in  the  diocese  of  Exeter,  void  by  the  resignation  of  Roger  Payn, 
last  chaplain. 

Vacated  because  otherwise  below. 

Oct.  20.       Presentation  of  Thomas  Kene,  chaplain,  to  the  said  perpetual  chantry. 
Westminster. 

Oct.  24.  Inspeximus  and  confirmation  to  the  master  and  brethren  of  the  hospital 
Westminster,  of  St.  Mary  and  St.  Leonard,  Neuport,  co.  Essex,  of  the  following : — 

1.  Letters  patent  dated  20  November,  20  Edward  III.  granting  licence 

for  the  acquisition  in  mortmain  by  them  of  land  and  meadow  in 
Neuport. 

2.  Letters  patent  dated  30  July,  10  Richard  II.  inspecting  and  con- 

firming letters  patent  dated  4  May,  2  Edward  11.  being  an 
exemplification  of  a  charter  dated  at  Westminster,  10  October, 
11  Henry  III.  For  1  mark  paid  in  the  hanaper. 

Oct,  26.  Licence  for  John  Kelyng,  clerk,  or  his  executors  or  assigns  after  his 
Westminster,  decease  to  found  a  perpetual  chantry  of  one  chaplain  to  celebrate  divine 
service  daily  in  the  church  of  Great  Boudon,  co.  Leicester,  for  the  good 
estate  of  the  king  and  his  consort  Elizabeth,  queen  of  England,  and  the  said 
John  and  for  their  souls  after  death  and  the  souls  of  the  king's  father 
Richard,  duke  of  York,  and  the  parents  and  benefactors  of  the  said  John,  to 
be  called  the  chaplain  of  the  chantry  of  John  Kelyng  ;  and  for  the  acquisition 
in  mortmain  by  the  said  chaplain  of  lands,  tenements  and  rents,  not  held  in 
chief,  to  the  value  of  10  marks  yearly. 

By  p.s.  and  for  20  marks  paid  in  the  hanaper. 

Oct.  27.        Grant  to  Joan  late  the  wife  of  Christopher  Worsley,  esquire,  tenant  in 
Westminster,  chief,  of  the  custody  of  all  his  lordships,  manors,  lands,  rents  and  services 
during  the  minority  of  John  his  son  and  heir  and  the  custody  and  marriage 
of  the  latter  ^without  disparagement,  and  so  from  heir  to  heir,  without 
rendering  anything  to  the  king.  By  p.s. 

Oct.  28.        General  pardon  to  the  king's  servitor  Robert  Palmer  late  of  Welledown, 
Westminster,  co.  Northampton,  esquire,  late  escheator  of  the  counties  of  Northampton  and 
Rutland,  of  ail  offences  committed  by  him  and  all  debts,  accounts  and  arrears 
due  from  him  to  the  king.  By  p.s. 

Oct.  24.        Grant  to  William  Estfeld,  clerk,  of  the  place  which  Master  John  Clerk 
Westminster,  now  occupies  as  one  of  the  fellows  of  the  king's  college  called  the  King's 
Hall  in  the  University  of  Cambridge  and  which  he  is  about  to  resign. 

ByK. 

Mandate  in  pursuance  to  the  king's  clerk  John  Gunthorp,  master  of  the 
college. 

Nov.  12.        Grant  for  life  to  Avice  Welles,  nurse  of  the  king'sjfirst  born  son  Edward, 
Westminster,  prince  of  Wales,  of  one  tun  or  two  pipes  of  red  wine  of  Gascony  yeai-ly  at 
Christmas  in  the  port  of  London,  at  the  hands  of  the  chief  butler  of  England 
or  his  deputy  there.  By  p.s. 

Nov.  23.       Presentation  of  Richard  Martyn  to  the  parish  church  of  St.  Peter  of  the 
Westminster,  town  of  Guisnis  in  the  parts  of  Picardy,  in  the  diocese  of  Terouanne,  void 
by  the  death  of  John  Shuldham.    The  letters  are  directed  to  Th.  cardinal 
archbishop  of  Canterbury. 


12  EDWARD  IV.— Part  II. 


359 


1472.  Membrane  32 — cont, 

Nov.  12.  Presentation  of  William  Plowm  to  the  parish  church  of  Chaldrington,  in 

WestminBter.  the  diocese  of  Salisbury. 

Nov.  22.  Grant  to  John  Huggeford,  esquii'e,  of  160/.  from  the  issues  of  the  counties 

Westminster,  of  Warwick  and  Leicester.                                                         By  p.s. 

Nov.  24.  Licence  for  the  prior  and  convent  of  the  monastery  of  Hyde  to  elect  an 

Wastminster.  abbot  in  the  place  of  Henry,  last  abbot,  deceased.                         By  p.s. 


Membrane  31. 


July  16. 
Westminster. 


July  II. 
Westminster. 


July  15. 
Westminster. 

July  17. 
Westminster, 

July  22, 

Westminster. 

July  28. 
Westminster. 

1473. 

Feb.  15. 
Westminster. 

1472. 

Sept.  4. 
Westminster. 

Sept.  17. 

Westminster. 


Oct.  1. 
Westminster. 


Oct.  9. 
Westminster, 


Letter*  of  denization  for  Christopher  Ambrose,  born  in  the  parts  of 
Florence,  and  the  heirs  of  his  body. 

By  p.s.  and  for  10  marks  paid  in  the  hanaper. 

Exemplification,  at  the  request  of  John  Sydburgh,  yeoman  of  the  king's 
robes,  of  the  tenour  of  the  enrolment  of  letters  patent  dated  12  Jlay, 
2  Edward  IV.  being  a  grant  for  life  to  him  and  John  Fereby,  one  of  the 
yeoman  of  the  crown,  of  certain  lands  lato  of  William  Grymmesby.  These 
letters  have  been  lost  by  accident,  as  he  has  taken  oath  in  Chancery,  and  will 
be  surrendered  if  found. 

General  pardon  to  Emmota  the  wife  of  John  Frankleyne  late  of  London, 
'  mynstrell.'  By  p.s. 

General  pardon  to  Philip  Baron  of  Exeter,  co.  Devon,  '  wever,'  alias 
'  yoman.'  By  p.s. 

Letters  of  denization,  without  fine  or  fee,  for  Peter  Casun  of  the  realm  of 
Portugal  and  the  heirs  of  his  body.  By  p.s. 

Appointment,  until  28  January  next,  of  Thomas  Markliam,  esquire,  to 
purvey  salt  and  fresh-water  fish  for  the  expenses  of  the  household  and 
carriage  for  the  same.  By  bill  of  the  steward  of  the  household. 

The  like  of  the  same  until  15  August  next. 


Grant  to  William  Aykroyd,  clerk,  and  John  Ilardyng,  clerk,  of  the 
presentation  to  the  parish  church  of  Longfeld,  now  void. 

Mandate  to  the  eschcator  in  the  counties  of  Oxford  and  Berks  for  the 
restitution  of  the  temporalities  of  the  abbey  of  St.  Mar}-,  Oeeney,  to  Kichard 
Leyccstre,  canon  of  the  monastery,  whose  election  as  abbot  Th.  bishop  of 
Lincoln  has  confirmed  and  whose  fealty  the  king  has  taken. 
The  like  to  the  escheators  in  the  following  counties: — 
Gloucester  and  the  marches  of  Wales  adjacent. 
Stafford. 
Buckingham. 
Northampton. 

The  like  to  William  Edward,  mayor  of  London,  escheator  in  that  city. 
Writ  de  intendendo  in  pursuance  to  the  tenants. 

Grant  to  the  king's  clerk  Master  Thomas  Danet  of  the  prebend  orcanonry 
in  the  king's  free  chapel  of  St.  George  within  the  castle  of  Wyndesore  void 
by  the  resignation  of  Master  .Tames  Goldwell.  '     By  K. 

Mandate  in  pursuance  to  the  dean  and  chapter. 

Presentation  of  John  Ilaniond,  parson  of  the  parish  church  of  Hedlej', 
in  the  diocese    of  Winchester,  to  the  king's  chantry  called 'Mortyuiers 
Chountry  '  within  the  cathedral  church  of  Chichester,  on  an  exchange  of 
benefices  with  Robert  G  est.    The  letters  are  directed  to  the  dean  and  chapter. 


360 


CALENDAR  OF  PATENT  ROLLS. 


1472.  Membrane  30. 

June  8.  Exemplification,  at  the  request  of  the  king's  sister  Anne,  duchess  of 
Westminster.  Exeter,  of  the  tenours  of  the  following  : — 

1.  A  petition  of  the  said  duchess  in  the  Parliament  summoned  at 
Westminster  on  3  June,  7  Edward  IV.  and  adjourned  until  12 
May,  8  Edward  IV.  praying  for  confirmation  of  a  grant  to  her  by 
letters  patent  dated  26  August,  7  Edward  IV. 

2.  The  assent  to  the  same  by  the  Commons  provided  that  it  be  not 
prejudicial  to  George,  duke  of  Clai'ence. 

The  endorsement : — Soitfait  come  il  est  desire. 
IRolls  of  Parliament,  FJ.  242.] 

Oct.  1.         Grant  to  the  king's  consort  Elizabeth,  queen  of  England,  of  the  grant 
Weetminster.  and  disposition  of  the  next  vacant  canonry  and  prebend  in  the  king's  free 
chapel  of  St.  Stephen  within  the  palace  of  Westminster.  By  K. 

Dec.  7.         Presentation  of  John  Symon,  chaplain,  to  the  parish  church  of  St.  John 
Westminster,  the  Baptist  of  the  town  of  St.  John  in  Jersey,  in  the  diocese  of  Coutances, 
void  by  the  death  of  Thomas  GrafFyn.    The  letters  are  directed  to  N. 
bishop  of  Coutances  or  his  vicar-general  there. 

Dec.  11.       Mandate  to  the  escheator  in  the  counties  of  Southampton  and  Wilts  for 
Westminster,  the  restitution  of  the  temporalities  of  the  abbey  of  Hyde  by  Winchester  to 
Thomas  Wirscetur,  whose  election  as  abbot  W.  bishop  of  Winchester  has 
confirmed  and  whose  fealty  the  king  has  taken.  By  p.s. 

The  like  to  the  escheators  in  the  following  counties  : — 

Surrey  and  Sussex. 

Somerset  and  Dorset. 
Writ  de  intendendo  in  pursuance  to  the  tenants. 

Membrane  29. 

Oct.  5.         Exemplification,  at  the  request  of  Humphrey  Stark ey,  of  the  tenour  of 
Westminster,  the  enrolment  of  letters  patent  dated  7  November,  11  Edward  IV.  granting 
pardon  to  Henry  Chaterton  late  of  Clipisham,  co,  Rutland,  knight.  These 
letters  have  been  lost  by  accident,  as  the  said  Humphrey  has  taken  oath  in 
Chancery,  and  will  be  surrendered  if  found. 

Oct.  27.  General  pardon  to  William  Dunnyng  alias  Donnyng  late  of  Berkyng, 
Westminster,  co.  Essex,  '  bocher,'  of  all  offences  committed  by  him  before  17  October. 

By  p.s. 

Nov.  5.        Grant  for  life  to  Richard  Hoton  of  the  office  of  one  of  the  king's  four 
Westminster,  foresters  of  Ingeliswode,  co.  Cumberland,  with  the  accustomed  fees  in  the 
same  manner  as  Richard  Robynson  had,  in  lieu  of  a  like  grant  to  the 
latter  by  letters  patent  dated  24  October,  11  Edward  IV.  surrendered. 

By  p.s. 

General  pardon  to  Richard  ap  Thomas  ap  Griffith,  son  and  one  of  the 
heirs  of  Thomas  ap  Griffith,  esquire,  of  all  offences  committed  by  him,  all 
entries  into  his  inheritance  without  licence  and  all  debts,  accounts  and  arrears 
due  from  him  to  the  king  before  30  October.  By  p.s. 

Nov.  12.  Whereas  the  king's  knight  Richard  Tempest,  deceased,  in  the  time  when 
Westminster,  he  was  sheriff  of  Lincohi  lost  a  great  part  of  the  profits  which  should  have 
accrued  to  him  in  that  oflice  and  was  hindered  in  the  exercise  of  his  office 
by  an  insurrection  in  that  county,  and  because  from  the  issues  of  his 
bailiwick  he  paid  the  sum  of  40/.  for  his  proffers  at  the  Exchequer  and 
has  incurred  great  expenses  in  attending  with  many  persons  on  the  king 
and  was  removed  from  his  office  by  the  rebels  before  the  space  of  one  year 
so  that  he  could  not  levy  the  profits  and  debts  pertaining  to  the  office,  the 


12  EDWARD  IV.— Paet  II. 


361 


1472. 


Nov.  27. 
Westminster. 


June  11. 
WestmLaster. 

Nov.  30. 
Westminster. 

Dec.  1. 
Westminster. 


Membrane  29 — cont. 

king  hereby  pardons  to  Thomas  Tempest,  esquire,  his  brother  and  heir,  all 
debts  and  accounts  due  for  the  said  office.  By  p.s. 

Grant  for  life  to  Robert  Scoles  of  Kyngeston  upon  Hull,  who  has  been 
appointed  deputy  clerk  of  the  sheriff's  court  of  the  said  town  by  the  sheri  ff 
of  the  county,  of  the  office  of  clerk  of  the  said  court,  with  the  accustomed 
fees  ;  in  consideration  of  his  labours  and  expenses  incurred  at  divers  times 
for  love  of  the  king.  By  K. 

Pardon  to  Giles  Thomson  of  Connesburgh,  co.  York,  '  yoman,'  alias 
'laborer,'  of  all  felonies  committed  by  him  before  19  May  last.        By  p.s. 

Letters  of  denization  for  Damian  de  Peyso,  born  in  Genoa,  and  the 


heirs  of  his  body. 
Grant  for  life 


By  p.s.  and  for  ^  mark  paid  in  the  hanaper. 

to  Maurice  Berkeley,  knight,  of  10/.  yearly  from 
15  February  last  from  the  customs  and  subsidies  in  the  port  of  South- 
ampton, in  lieu  of  a  like  grant  to  him  by  letters  patent  of  that  date, 
surrendered  because  invalid.  By  K. 


Membrane  28. 

Nov.  8.  Grant  to  the  king's  mother  Cecily,  duchess  of  York,  and  her  heirs  of  the 
Westminster,  advowson  or  patronage  of  the  house  or  hospital  of  St.  John  Baptist  by  the 
bridge  of  Lecchelade,  co.  Gloucester ;  and  grant  of  licence  for  the  said 
duchess  to  convert  the  said  house  or  hospital  into  a  perpetual  chantry  of 
three  chaplains  to  celebrate  divine  service  daily  at  the  altar  in  the  chapel 
of  St.  Mary  in  the  church  of  Lecchelade  for  the  good  estate  of  the  king  and 
his  consort  Elizabeth,  queen  of  England,  and  the  said  duchess  and  for  their 
souls  after  death  and  the  soul  of  the  king's  father,  Richard,  late  duke  of  York, 
late  lord  of  the  said  town,  to  be  called  *  Seint  Marie  Chaunterie ;'  for 
William  Lovell,  now  prior,  to  grant  the  said  house  or  hospital,  which  has 
fallen  into  decay,  and  its  site  and  possessions  to  the  said  chaplains  in 
mortmain;  for  John  Twynyho  of  Cirencestre  and  his  heirs  and  assigns  to 
found  another  perpetual  chantry  of  one  chaplain  to  celebrate  divine  service 
daily  at  the  altar  in  the  chapel  of  St.  Blaise  in  the  said  church  for  the 
good  estate  and  souls  aforesaid  and  the  good  estate  of  the  said  John  and  his 
soul  after  death,  to  be  called  *  Seint  Blase  Chaunterie  ;'  and  for  the  said 
duchess  or  the  chaplains  of  the  first  chantry  to  grant  a  yearly  rent  of  10/. 
from  the  possessions  of  the  said  house  or  hospital  to  the  chaplain  of  the 
second  chantry  in  mortmain.    \^Monasticon  vol.  vi.  p.  684.]  By  p.s. 

Nov.  14.       General  pardon  to  John  Everyngham  late  of  Byrkyn,  co.  York,  esquire. 
Westminster.  By  K. 

Nov.  20.        Grant  to  the  king's  firstborn  son  Edward,  prince  of  Wales,  duke  of 
Westminster.  Cornwall  and  earl  of  Chester,  that  he  may  freely  levy  and  collect  all  issues, 
rents,  fines,  amercements,  forfeitures,  tallages,  arrears  and  other  things 
belonging  to  the  king  before  this  date  in  the  parts  of  North  Wales,  South 
Wales  and  West  Wales  and  the  counties  of  Chester  and  Flint.  By  K. 

Nov.  23.        General  pardon  to  John  Twynyho  of  Keyforde,  co.  Somerset,  esquire, 
Wcstmiuster.  alias  of  Frome,  co.  Somerset,  '  gentilman,'  late  escheator  in  the  counties  of 
Somerset  and  Dorset,  of  all  offiinces  committed  by  him  and  all  issues,  fines, 
debts,  accounts  and  arrears  due  from  him  to  the  king.  13y  p.s. 


Membrane  27. 

Oct.  30.        Grant  to  the  burgesses  and  inhabitants  of  the  town  of  Beaudelej  that 
Westminster,  the  town  with  its  precinct  shall  be  u  free  borough  and  the  burgesses  shall 
form  a  body  corporate  and  shall  have  i)erpotual  succession  and  a  common 
seal,  with  power  to  grant  or  acquire  lauds,  tenements,  rents,  services  and 


362 


CALENDAR  OF  PATENT  ROLLS. 


1472.  Membrane  27 — eont. 

reversions,  and  shall  be  quit  of  toll,  pontage,  passage,  paiage,  lestage, 
tronage,  anchorage,  stallage,  carriage,  pesage,  pavage,  terrage,  picage, 
cheminage,  murage,  fossage,  pedage,  quayage  and  other  customs  throughout 
the  realm  and  in  all  places  within  the  power  of  the  king.  By  p.s. 

Nov.  5.        Grant  to  Edmund  Wale  of  the  deanery  of  Dunwyche,  co.  Suffolk,  in 
Westminster,  the  king's  gift  by  reason  of  the  bishopric  of  Norwich  being  lately  void  and 
in  his  hands.  By  p.s. 

Oct.  30.        Grant  for  life  to  the  king's  servant  John  Stevers  of  the  custody  of  the 
Westminster,  gaol  with  the  portership  of  the  king's  castle  of  York,  with  the  accustomed 
fees.  By  p.s. 

Nov.  5.  Exemplification,  at  the  request  of  John  Aldey  and  Thomas  Bodyn,  of  the 
Westminster,  tenour  of  the  enrolment  of  letters  patent  dated  10  August,  5  Edward  IV. 

{see  vol.  i.  p.  465),  being  a  grant  to  the  mayor  and  barons  of  Sandwich. 
These  letters  have  been  casually  lost,  as  the  said  John  and  Thomas  have 
taken  oath  in  Chancery,  and  will  be  surrendered  if  found. 

Nov.  12.  Grant  to  Alice,  duchess  of  Suffolk,  and  her  heirs  and  assigns,  in  recom- 
Westminster.  pense  of  2,800  marks  due  to  her  from  the  king,  as  appears  at  the  receipt  of 
the  Exchequer,  of  the  manor  and  lordship  of  Grobury  alias  Leyghton 
Busard  with  all  lands  and  other  things  pertaining  to  it,  lately  granted  to 
her  for  life  by  letters  patent  dated  6  July,  7  Edward  IV.  (see  p.  65,)  to 
hold  by  the  service  of  a  rose  at  Midsummer.  By  p.s. 

Nov  15.        General  pardon  to  John  at  Gate  of  Sele,  co.  Kent,  *  miller,'  alias  John 
Westminster,  Daggedewe   alias  Dagdewe,  '  laborer,'  alias  John  Gate  of  Seveuoke, 
CO.   Kent,   alias  'piper,'  of  all  offences  committed  by  him  before 
12  November.  By  p.s. 

Nov,  19.        Pardon  to  Leonard  Thornburgh,  esquire,  late  sheriff  of  Lincoln,  of  all 
Westminster,  offences  committed  by  him  and  ail  fines,  issues,  debts,  accounts  and  arrears 
due  from  him  to  the  king.  By  p.s. 


Membrane  26. 

Nov,  20.  General  pardon  to  Richard  Webbe  late  of  Devyse,  co.  Wilts,  '  yoman,' 
Westminster,  of  all  offences  committed  by  him  before  14  November,  By  p.s. 

Dec.  11.       Appointment  of  Thomas  a  Byrley  of  Hekelesfeld  and  WilHam  Swyfte  of 
Westminster.  Sheffeld  to  take  smiths  and  otlier  workmen  for  the  works  of  the  king's 
ordnance  viz.  for  the  making  of  '  lez  arowhedes  '  within  the  county  of  York 
and  '  arowhedes '  and  iron  and  other  necessaries  and  carriage  for  the  same 
by  land  and  water.  By  K. 

Dec.  10.  Letters  of  denization  for  Martin  Dyonyse  of  Lisbon,  born  in  the  realm 
Westminster,  of  Portugal,  and  the  heirs  of  his  body,  without  fine  or  fee.  By  p.s. 

Nov.  28.  Pardon  to  Henry  Bodrugan  of  Bodrugan,  co.  Cornwall,  esquire,  alias 
Westminster,  late  of  Westminster,  co.  Middlesex,  of  his  outlawry  in  the  counties  of 
Middlesex  and  Surrey  for  not  appearing  before  the  justices  of  the  Bench  to 
answer  John  Mecheley  touching  a  debt  of  11/.  5s.,  before  Robert  Danby 
and  his  fellows,  late  justices  of  the  Bench,  to  satisfy  Anne,  lady  of  Nevylle, 
widow,  of  16/.  which  she  recovered  against  him  and  40s.  damages,  and 
before  the  said  justices  to  satisfy  the  king  of  his  ransom  for  having  denied 
two  writings  obligatory  of  his  produced  by  Alvred  Corneburgh,  esquire ; 
he  having  surrendered  to  the  Flete  prison,  and  the  said  Anne  having 
appeared  on  26  November  last  by  John  Peulyn,  her  attorney,  and 
acknowledged  herself  satisfied  and  the  said  Alvred  having  appeared  on 
5  July,  9  Edward  IV.  by  John  Glyn,  his  attorney,  and  acknowledged 
himself  satisfied,  and  the  said  Henry  having  appeared  in  his  own  person  and 
been  admitted  to  fine  by  pledges  of  John  Penlyn  of  London,  'gentilman,' 


12  EDWARD  IV.— Part  II. 


363 


1472.  Membrane  2Q—cont. 

and  Richard  Bonethan  of  Crokehie,  co.  Cornwall,  '  gentilman,'  as  Thomas 
Bryan,  chief  justice  of  the  Bench,  has  certified. 

Dec.  14.       Grant  for  life  to  the  king's  servant  John  Swancote,  esquire,  of  the  office 
Westminster,  of  gauger  in  the  port  of  Bristol  and  ports  and  places  adjacent,  which 
Robert  Parker,  deceased,  lately  had,  receiving  the  accustomed  fees. 

By  p.s. 

Dec.  3,  Grant  to  John  Fogge,  knight,  and  Alice  his  wife  and  the  heirs  male  of 
Westminster,  his  body  of  the  manor  of  Plumpton,  co.  Sussex,  and  all  lands,  rents, 
reversions  and  services  in  Plumpton  with  knights'  fees,  advowsons,  courts 
leet,  views  of  frank-pledge,  parks,  warrens,  fairs,  markets  and  all  other 
profits,  to  hold  by  the  same  services  as  they  were  held  by  before  the  first 
day  of  1  March,  Edward  IV. ;  iu  lieu  of  a  grant  to  him  and  his  said  heirs 
of  the  above  and  also  of  the  manors  of  Faldyngworth  and  Sotby,  co.  Lincoln, 
and  all  lands,  rents,  reversions  and  services  in  Faldyngworth  and  Sotby 
late  of  William  Tailboys,  esquire,  John  Langholme,  William  Coot,  Walter 
Tailboys  and  others  to  the  use  of  William  Tailboys  late  of  Southkyme, 
knight,  and  in  the  king's  hands  by  the  forfeiture  of  the  latter,  by  letters 
patent  dated  5  August,  7  Edward  IV.  surrendered.  By  K. 


Membrane  25. 

Nov.  25.       Pardon  to  the  king's  servant  James  Pekham,  esquire,  late  sheriflf  of  Kent, 
Westminster,  of  all  offences  committed  by  him  and  all  fines,  issues,  debts,  accounts  and 
arrears  due  from  him  to  the  king  before  23  November.  By  p.s. 

Nov.  26.       Grant  for  life  to  the  king's  servant  William  Fleccher,  one  of  the  yeomen 
Westminster,  of  the  king's  chamber,  of  an  annuity  of  2d.  daily  from  the  issues  of  the 
town  of  Sandiacre,  co.  Nottingham,  as  John  Morten,  deceased,  had. 

By  p.s. 

Dec.  1.        Appointment  of  the  king's  knight  Robert  Grene  as  leader  and  governor 
Westminster,  of  an  armed  force  of  men  at  arms  and  archers  which  the  king  has  ordered 
to  be  sent  to  foreign  parts  for  tiie  resistance  of  his  enemies.  By  K. 

Oct.  7.  Grant  to  Thomas,  bishop  of  London,  keeper  of  the  privy  seal,  the  king's 
Westminster,  knight  William,  lord  of  Hastynges,  the  king's  chamberlain,  Master  William 
Dudley,  king's  clerk,  dean  of  the  chapel  of  the  household,  and  William 
Jardyn  and  their  assigns  of  the  presentation  to  the  next  vacant  canonry 
and  prebend  in  the  king's  free  chapel  of  St.  Stephen  within  the  palace  of 
Westminster.  By  p.s. 

Dec.  2.         Grant  to  Stephen  Close  of  the  custody  of  the  hospital  of  St.  Mary, 
Westminster.  Qsprenge,  in  lieu  of  a  grant  of  the  same  to  the  king's  clerk  .John 
Pemberton  on  the  death  of  Robert  Darell  by  letters  patent  dated  15  July, 
11  Edward  IV.  surrendered. 

Dec.  4.  Grant  for  life  to  the  king's  servant  Roger  Ree,  knight,  for  his  good 
Westminster,  service  to  the  king  and  the  king's  father,  of  all  lauds,  rents,  reversions  and 
services  with  knights'  fees,  advowsons,  courts  Icet,  franchises  and  other 
appurtenances  within  the  county  of  Hertford  or  elsewhere  within  the 
realm  which  Nicholas  Harpesfeld,  late  one  of  the  clerks  of  the  signet,  had 
of  the  king's  grant.  By  K. 

Nov.  27.  Grant  to  the  king's  servant  John  Hulcote,  esquire,  of  the  custody  of  all 
Westminster,  lordships,  manors,  lands,  rents,  reversions,  services  and  other  possessions 
with  advowsons  late  of  Robert  llufFord,  esquire,  deceased,  tenant  in  chief 
by  knight  service,  during  the  minority  of  Thomas  his  son  and  heir  and  the 
custody  and  marriage  of  the  latter  without  disparagement,  and  so  from 
heir  to  heii",  supporting  the  heir  well  and  sufficiently.  By  p.s. 


d64 


CALENDAR  OF  PATENT  ROLLS. 


1472,  Membrane  25 — cont. 

Nov.  28.  Pardon  to  Thomas  Gerves  late  of  London,  *  gentilman,'  alias  Thomas 
Westminster.  Gerveys,  citizen  and  skinner  of  London,  and  Joan  his  wife  of  their  outlawry 
and  waiver  in  the  county  of  Middlesex  and  London  for  not  appearing  before 
John  Prysot  and  his  fellows,  justices  of  the  Bench  of  the  late  king,  to 
answer  William  Venour,  keeper  of  the  prison  of  the  late  king,  for  having 
with  .John  Leweston  late  of  London,  '  skynner,'  and  William  Marchall  late 
of  London,  '  skynner,'  seized  Thomas  Garvays  late  of  London,  skinner,  who 
had  been  committed  to  the  custody  of  the  said  William  as  keeper  of  the 
Flete  prison  until  he  should  find  security  for  keeping  the  peace  towards 
John  Groverst,  at  Westminster  and  carried  him  off  and  assaulted  Hugh 
Whether,  the  servant  of  the  said  William ;  before  Robert  Danby  and  his 
fellows,  late  justices  of  the  Bench,  to  answer  the  king  for  their  ransoms  for 
a  trespass  committed  against  John  Groveherst,  Roger  Appilton,  Roger 
Rotheley,  Thomas  Underdoweue  and  John  Freman ;  and  before  the  said 
justices  to  answer  Edmund  Pygot,  citizen  and  skinner  of  London,  touching 
a  debt  of  9/. ;  they  having  surrendered  to  the  Flete  prison  and  the  said  John, 
Roger,  Roger,  Thomas  and  John  having  appeared  before  the  justices  of 
the  Bench  at  Westminster  and  acknowledged  themselves  satisfied,  as 
Thomas  Bryan,  chief  justice  of  the  Bench,  has  certified. 

Membrane  24. 

Nov.  23.        Inspeximus  and  confirmation  to  William,  the  abbot,  and  the  convent  of 
Westminster.  St.  Nicholas,  Maud[on],  of  the  Premonstratensian  order,  of  letters  patent 
dated  7  July,  16  Richard  II.  inspecting  and  confirming  a  charter  dated  at 
Dover,  7  December,  1  Richard  I.    \_Monasticoni  vol.  vi.  p.  901.] 

For  1  mark  paid  in  the  hanaper. 

Membrane  23. 

Dec.  4.  '  Appointment,  during  pleasure,  of  Richard  Croft,  esquire,  as  receiver  and 
Westminster,  approver  of  the  king's  manors  of  Wodestoke,  Hamburgh,  Wotton  and 
Stonefeld  with  their  members  and  the  hundred  of  Wotton,  co.  Oxford, 
rendering  his  account  yearly  at  Wodestoke  before  Thomas  Aleyn,  whom 
the  king  hereby  appoints  auditor.  He  shall  pay  the  stipends  of  the  tAVO 
chaplains  within  the  manor  of  Wodestoke,  the  steward  of  the  said  manor 
and  hundred,  the  parkers  of  the  parks  of  Wodestoke  and  Corneburgh,  the 
porter  of  the  park  of  Wodestoke,  the  surveyors  and  controllers  of  the  works 
of  the  manor  of  Wodestoke,  the  keepers  of  the  meadows  of  the  same  manor 
and  all  carpenters,  stone-cutters,  plumbers  and  other  officers,  ministers  and 
labourers  in  the  said  manors  and  hundred,  and  all  repairs,  enclosures  and 
other  expenses  within  the  same  manor,  houses  and  mills,  as  well  as  of  the 
park,  and  he  and  the  said  auditor  shall  receive  yearly  100*.  and  33*.  4rf. 
respectively  from  the  issues  of  the  above.  By  p.s. 

Dec.  I.  Grant  to  Anne,  countess  of  Pembroke,  late  the  wife  of  WilHam,  earl  of 
Westminster.  Pembroke,  of  the  custody  of  the  honour,  castle,  manor  and  lordship  of 
Dunster  and  all  other  castles,  manors,  lordships,  lands,  rents,  services, 
knights'  fees  and  advowsons  late  of  James  Luterell,  knight,  and  afterwards 
of  the  said  late  earl,  the  manors  of  Mynhede,  Culveton,  Yeveton  and 
Estcantok  alias  Cantokyshede  with  the  advowson  of  the  church  and 
five  messuages,  three  carucates  of  land,  6  acres  of  meadow  and  \2>d.  rent  in 
Exton,  Vexford,  Rixen  and  Slocumber,  co.  Somerset,  and  all  lands  now  in 
the  hands  of  William  Brandon,  knight,  excepted,  to  hold  from  Christmas 
last  during  the  minority  of  William,  son  and  heir  of  the  said  late  earl, 
rendering  nothing  until  Easter  next  and  from  thence  90Z.  yearly  and 
maintaining  the  parks,  houses,  stews  and  other  edifices.  By  p.s. 


12  EDWARD  IV.— Part  II, 


365 


1472. 

Dec.  6. 
Westminster. 

Dec.  10. 
Westminster. 


Membrane  23 — cont. 

Signification  to  W.  bishop  o£  Winchester  of  the  royal  assent  to  the  election 
of  Thomas  Wirscetur,  monk  of  the  monastery  of  Hyde  by  Winchester,  as 
abbot  thereof.  By  p.s.  [3625.] 

Grant  to  the  king's  firstborn  son  Edward,  prince  of  Wales,  duke  of 
Cornwall  and  earl  of  Chester,  of  all  issues  of  all  castles,  honours,  lordships, 
manors,  lands  and  other  possessions  belonging  to  the  duchy  of  Cornwall  from 
Michaelmas,  10  Edward  IV.  until  2  November  then  following,  on  which 
day  he  was  born,  and  grant  that  he  may  levy  and  collect  all  issues,  fines, 
amercements,  forfeitures,  arrears  and  other  things  pertaining  to  the  king 
by  reason  of  the  principality  of  Wales,  the  counties  of  Chester  and 
Flynt  and  the  duchy  of  Cornwall  before  this  present  date.  By  K. 

Dec.  9.  Appointment  of  John  Moklowe  to  take  carpenters  called  '  wherlers  '  and 
Westminster.  *  cartwrightes*  and  other  carpenters,  stone-cutters,  smiths,  plumbers  and 
other  workmen  for  the  works  of  the  king's  ordnance  and  bombards,  cannons, 
'  colverynes,'  '  fowelers,'  '  serpentynes,'  and  other  cannons  and  poAvder, 
sulphur,  saltpetre,  stone,  iron,  lead,  crossbows  and  bolts  for  them,  bows, 
arrows,  *  bowestaves,'  '  bowestrengys,'  '  langdebeves,'  lances,  '  gley ves  '  and 
hammers  and  other  necessaries  and  carriage  for  the  same  by  land  and 
water. 

Dec,  14.  Grant  for  life  to  the  king's  servant  Roger  Horseley,  one  of  tho  yeomen 
Westminster,  of  the  king's  chamber,  for  his  good  service  in  battle  and  beyond  the  seas, 
of  two  parts  of  the  manor  of  Bree,  co.  Cornwall,  which  Joceus  Breo 
lately  had  of  the  grant  of  Henry  V.  and  the  manor  of  Southorp,  co. 
Gloucester,  which  William  Herevy  and  Mary  his  Avife  formerly  had  of  the 
grant  of  Edward  III.  together  not  exceeding  the  value  of  10  marks 
yearly,  to  hold  by  the  accustomed  services.  By  p.s. 

Appointment  of  John  Sturgeon,  esquire,  one  of  the  gentlemen  ushers  of 
the  king's  chamber,  to  take  carpenters  and  others  as  above  for  the  works 
of  the  king's  ordnance.  By  K. 

General  pardon  to  Thomas  Grene,  vicar  of  the  parish  church  of  Leke, 
CO.  York,  alias  late  of  Lanmote,  co.  York,  chaplain,  of  all  offences  committed 
by  him  before  12  February. 

Membrane  22. 

Licence  for  the  alienation  in  mortmain  by  John,  bishop  of  Hereford,  to 
Richard  Gardener,  the  warden,  and  the  vicars  of  the  college  of  vicars  in 
the  choir  of  the  church  of  Hereford,  of  the  foundation  of  Richard  II. 
because  their  dweUing  is  so  distant  from  the  church  that  through  fear  of 
evildoers  and  the  inclemency  of  the  wcatiicr  many  of  them  cannot  go  to  the 
church  at  midnight  to  celebrate  divine  service,  of  a  messuage  or  canonical 
mansion  in  which  John  Grene,  late  canon  of  the  said  church,  dwelt  and  a 
vacant  plot  in  which  Reginald  Wolston,  late  canon  of  the  same  church, 
dwelt,  lying  between  tho  palace  of  the  Ijishop  on  tho  west  and  tho  lane 
leading  from  the  street  of  the  castle  to  tlio  well  of  St.  Ethelbert  on  the  east 
and  between  the  cemetery  of  the  said  church  on  the  north  and  the  river 
Wye  on  the  south,  for  their  habitation  and  for  the  sustenance  of  two 
choristers  in  the  choir  beyond  the  accustomed  number  and  that  they  may 
pray  for  the  good  estate  of  the  king  and  his  consort  Elizabeth,  queen  of 
England,  and  the  said  bishop  and  for  their  souls  after  death.  By  p.s. 

Nov.  20,        Licence,  for  26s.  Sd.  paid  in  the  hanaper,  for  John  Butler,  esquire,  to 
Westmiustcr.  grant  the  manors  of  Castell  Pullerbache  and  Chirche  Pullerbachc  alias 
Castell  Pulverbache  and  Chirche  Pulverbache,  with  the  advowsou  of  the 


1473. 

Jan.  21. 
Westminster, 

Feb.  12. 
Westminster. 


1472. 

Oct.  18. 
Westminster. 


366 


CALENDAR  OF  PATENT  ROLLS. 


1472. 


Nov.  26. 
Westminster. 


July  12. 
Westminster. 


July  4. 

Westminster. 


Membrane  22 — cont. 

free  chapel  of  Pullerbache,  co.  Salop,  held  in  chief,  to  John  Say,  knight, 
John  Broughton  the  elder,  esquire,  John  Broughton  the  younger,  esquire, 
Drugo  Brittonell,  esquire,  John  Appulyerd,  esquire,  William  Broughton, 
John  Baker  and  Thomas  Frankessh  and  their  heirs. 

General  pardon  to  John  Whittyngham  late  of  London,  '  gentilman,'  aliat 
of  Westunturvild,  co.  Buckingham,  alias  esquire,  of  all  offences  committed 
by  him  before  21  November.  By  p.s. 

Notification  that  James  Goldwell,  dean  of  the  cathedral  church  of 
St„  Mary,  Salisbury,  and  elect  of  Norwich,  has  before  the  king  in  Chancery 
appointed  John  Morton,  doctor  of  laws,  keeper  of  the  rolls  of  Chancery, 
John  Gunthorp,  clerk,  John  Fogge,  knight,  John  Clerk,  one  of  the  barons 
of  the  Exchequer,  and  Nicholas  Goldwell  his  attorneys  to  administer  his 
possessions  and  after  the  confirmation  of  his  election  and  his  consecration 
to  treat  with  the  executors  of  the  will .  of  Walter  Lyhert,  late  bishop  of 
Norwich,  concerning  the  temporalities  and  spiritualities  of  the  bishopric 
of  Norwich  and  other  matters. 

Grant,  during  office,  to  the  king's  clerk  John  Morton,  keeper  of  the  rolls 
of  Chancery,  of  one  tun  or  two  pipes  of  Gascon  wine  yearly  at  Christmas  in 
the  port  of  London  at  the  hands  of  the  chief  butler  of  England  or  his 
deputy  there.  By  K. 


^^(^g  Membrane  21. 

Feb.  20.  Appointment  of  the  king's  consort  Elizabeth,  queen  of  England,  the 
Westminster,  king's  kinsman  Thomas,  cardinal  archbishop  of  Canterbury,  the  king's 
brothers  George,  duke  of  Clarence,  and  Richard,  duke  of  Gloucester, 
Robert,  bishop  of  Bath  and  Wells  and  chancellor,  L.  bishop  of  Durham, 
E.  bishop  of  Carlisle,  J.  bishop  of  Rochester,  the  king's  kinsmen  John, 
earl  of  Shrewsbury,  and  Anthony,  earl  of  Ryrers,  Thomas,  abbot  of  West- 
minster, chancellor  of  the  king's  firstborn  son  Edward,  prince  of  Wales, 
William  Hastynges  of  Hastynges,  knight,  the  king's  chamberlain,  Richard 
Fenys  of  Dacre,  knight,  Walter  Devei'eux  of  Ferrers,  knight,  John  Fog, 
knight,  John  Scot,  knight,  Thomas  Vaghan,  chamberlain  of  the  said  prince, 
John  Nedeham,  knight,  Richard  Chokke,  knight,  Richard  Fowler,  Master 
Richard  Martyn,  clerk,  William  Alyngton,  Richard  Haute,  John  Sulyard 
and  Geoffrey  Coytemore  as  tutors  and  councillors  of  the  said  prince  until 
he  shall  be  of  the  age  of  fourteen  years,  with  full  power  to  administer  his 
possessions  within  the  principality  of  Wales,  the  duchy  of  Cornwall,  the 
counties  of  Chester  and  Flint  and  elsewhere,  to  grant  licences  for 
ecclesiastical  elections,  to  receive  fealties,  to  present  to  churches  and 
other  benefices,  to  dispose  of  custodies  of  lands  and  marriages  of  heirs,  to 
grant  pardons,  to  appoint  and  remove  stewards,  sheriffs,  bailiffs,  reeves, 
chamberlains,  escheators  and  other  ministers  and  officers  and  to  grant 
letters  patent,  provided  that  no  office  shall  be  granted  for  life  or  for  a 
term  of  years  but  during  pleasure  of  the  said  prince  only.        By  K.  and  C. 

Feb.  26.  Exemplification,  at  the  request  of  Gilbert  Laughton,  of  the  tenour  of  the 
Westminster,  enrolment  of  letters  patent  dated  18  August,  12  Edward  IV.  \_French  Roll, 
12  Edioard  IV.  m.  16],  granting  safe  conduct  at  his  request  for  a  ship 
called  la  Marie  of  the  parts  of  France,  Brittany  or  Spain,  of  the  portage  of 
80  tuns  or  under,  of  which  Pelyngto  de  Raparaff,  Martin  de  Seint  Jolianne 
de  Luso,  Martin  de  Spayne,  John  de  Bretayn,  Bartholomew  de  Gascoign, 
William  de  Fraunce  or  John  Ote  of  Gasconyis  master.  These  letters  have 
been  lost  by  accident,  as  Ivo  Mychell  has  taken  oath  iu  Chancery,  and  they 
will  be  surrendered  if  found. 


12  EDWARD  IV.— Part  II. 


367 


1472. 

Dec.  15. 
Westminster. 


Dec.  13. 
Westminster. 


Dec.  5. 

Westminster. 

1473. 

Jan.  4. 

Westminster. 


Jan.  15. 
Westminster. 

Jan.  23. 
Westminster. 

Jan.  28. 

Westminster. 


Feb.  6. 
Wostminstor. 


Starch  1. 
Westminster. 

1472. 

Dec.  11. 
Westminster. 


1473. 

Jan.  4. 
Westminster! 


Membrane  20. 

Grant  for  life  to  William  Brecher  of  the  office  of  one  of  the  king's 
foresters  of  the  forest  of  Purbik,  co.  Doi-set,  which  Henry  Fenne  lately  had, 
receiving  the  accustomed  fees  from  the  customs  and  subsidies  in  the  port  of 
Poole  and  ports  and  places  adjacent,  as  Gilbert  Martyn  had  in  the  time  of 
Edward  III.  By  p.s. 

Grant  for  life  to  the  king's  servitor  John  Forster,  esquire,  one  of  the 
ushers  of  the  king's  chamber,  of  all  fines,  amercements,  issues,  forfeitures 
and  profits  in  the  court  of  the  marshalsea  of  the  household  from  Michaelmas 
last,  without  rendering  any  account.  By  p.8. 

General  pardon  to  John  Colyn  late  of  London,  '  cordener,'  alias  John 
Colyns,  *  yoman,'  of  all  offences  committed  by  him  before  10  November 
last.  By  p.s. 

Licence  for  the  king's  kinsman  Henry,  duke  of  Buckingham,  kinsman 
and  heir  of  Humphrey,  late  duke  of  Buckingham,  tenant  in  chief,  viz.  son 
of  his  son  Humphrey,  to  enter  freely  after  Michaelmas  last,  without  proof  of 
age  or  other  formality,  into  all  castles,  towns,  lordships,  cantreds,  commotes, 
manors,  lands,  fee  farms,  annuities,  reversions,  rents,  services,  hundreds, 
offices,  fees,  views  of  frank  pledge,  courts  leet,  sheriffs'  turns,  liberties, 
franchises,  fairs,  markets,  jurisdictions,  knights'  fees,  advowsons  and  other 
possessions  in  England,  Wales,  the  marches  of  Wales  and  the  town  of 
Calais  of  which  the  said  late  duke  was  seised  and  which  should  descend  to 
him.  By  K. 

General  pardon  to  John  Smyth  late  of  Thakstede,  co.  Essex,  '  gentilman,' 
of  all  offences  committed  by  him  before  8  January.  By  p.s. 

Presentation  of  John  Smyth  to  the  parish  church  of  Stanford  Rivers,  in 
the  diocese  of  London,  void  by  the  resignation  of  John  Neweport,  last 
rector.  By  p.s. 

Appointment  for  life  of  the  king's  clerk  Master  Roger  Rotherham,  doctor 
of  laws,  as  warden  of  the  college  called  the  King's  Hall  in  the  University 
of  Cambridge,  in  the  king's  gift  by  the  surrender  of  letters  patent  by 
Master  John  Gunthorpe,  secretary  of  the  queen,  last  warden,  with  8  marks 
yearly  from  Christmas  last  from  the  issues  of  the  counties  of  Cambridge  and 
Huntingdon  for  two  robes,  one  with  fur  and  the  other  with  lining,  as  the 
wardens  of  the  college  had  in  the  time  of  Edward  III.  By  p.s. 

Pardon  to  John  Draper  late  of  Asshewell,  co.  Hertford,  '  husbondman,'  of 
his  outlawry  iu  the  county  of  Middlesex  for  not  appearing  before  the  king 
at  Westminster  to  answer  for  divers  trespasses,  ho  having  surrendered  to 
the  Marshalsea  prison,  as  Thomas  Byilyug,  chief  justice  of  the  King's 
Bench,  has  certified. 

General  pardon  to  Thomas  Seintmauro  of  Bekyntou,  co.  Somerset, 
knight,  of  all  offences  committed  by  him  before  26  February  last.     By  p.s. 


Membrane  19. 

Parrc,  knight,  laic  sheriff  of  Cumberland,  of  all 

issues. 


Pardon  to  William 
offences   committed  by    him  and  all  linos,  amercements,  issues,  debts, 
accounts  and  arrears  due  from  him  to  the  king  before  20  November  last. 

By  p.s. 

Grant  to  the  king's  servitor  Thomas  Thwaytca,  chancellor  of  the 
Exchequer,  of  the  custody  of  all  lands  late  of  Henry  Elys  late  of  Berewyc, 
CO.  York,  tenant  in  chief,  during  the  minority  of  Thomas  his  son  and  heir 
with  the  marriage  of  the  latter  without  disparagement,  and  ao  from  heir  to 


368 


CALENDAR  OF  PATENT  ROLLS. 


J473.  Membrane  19 — cont. 

heir,  finding  a  competent  sustenance  for  the  heir  and  supporting  the  houses, 
enclosures,  buildings  and  other  charges.  By  K. 

Feb.  4.  Exemplification,  at  the  request  of  John  Soper,  of  the  tenour  of  the 
Westminster,  enrolment  of  letters  patent  dated  14  November,  7  Etlward  IV.  [^French 
Roll,  7  Edivard  IV.  m.  11,]  granting  licence  for  John  Speke,  esquire,  to 
go  to  the  court  of  Rome,  the  Holy  Land  and  other  parts  beyond  the  seas 
on  pilgrimage  with  six  persons  in  his  company.  These  letters  have  been 
lost  by  accident,  as  the  said  John  Soper  has  taken  oath  in  Chancery,  and 
they  will  be  surrendered  if  found. 

1472. 

Dec.  21.       Pardon  to  John  Brumston  alias  Bromston,  esquire,  of  Netlisted,  co. 
Westminster.  Kent,  late  sheriff  of  Kent,  late  keeper  of  the  gaol  of  the  castle  of  Canter- 
bury, of  all  offences  committed  by  him,  all  issues,  fines,  amercements,  debts, 
accounts  and  arrears  due  from  him  to  the  king  and  all  escapes  of  felons. 

By  p.s. 

Dec.  1.  Licence  for  the  alienation  in  mortmain  by  John  Kelyng,  clerk,  to 
Westminster.  Edmund  Teyser,  the  chaplain  of  the  chantry  which  he  lately  had  licence 
by  letters  patent^  to  found,  of  nine  messuages,  a  wind-mill,  100  acres  of  land, 
8  acres  of  meadow  and  12  acres  of  pasture  in  Great  Boudon  and  Hauer- 
bergh,  co.  Leicester,  extended  at  6/.  15(Z.  yearly,  as  appears  by  an  inquisition 
before  Thomas  Warde,  late  escheator  in  the  county,  to  the  value  of 
6/.  7*.  l\d.  yearly,  in  part  satisfaction  of  a  licence  by  the  said  letters  patent 
for  the  acquisition  by  the  chaplain  of  land  and  rent  to  the  yearly  value  of 
10  marks. 

1473. 

Feb.  19.        Appointment  of  the  king's  kinsman  R.  bishop  of  Salisbury  as  master  and 
Westminster,  surveyor  of  the  king's  works  at  the  chapel  of  St.  Mary  and  St.  George 
within  the  castle  of  Wyndesore  and  other  new  works  there,  with  power  to 
take  stone-cutters,  plumbers,  carpenters,  masons  and  other  workmen  and 
stone,  timber,  tiles,  shingles,  glass,  iron,  lead  and  other  necessaries.  By  K. 
Feb.  13.        Grant  to  Robert  Michelson,  master  of  a  ship  called  le  James  of  Hull,  of 
Westminster.  60Z.  from  the  first  moneys  from  the  customs  and  subsidies  in  the  port  of 
Kyngeston  on  Hull  for  the  part  payment  of  the  ransoms  of  himself  and 
certain  other  merchants  and  mariners  in  his  company,  who  when  sailing  in 
the  said  ship  were  captured  in  a  fierce  conflict  with  the  king's  adversaries 
of  France  and  taken  to  France,  others  of  them  being  killed.  By  K. 


T[472.  Membrane  18. 

Oct.  28.  General  pardon  to  Oliver  Manyngham  of  London,  knight,  and  Eleanor 
Westminster,  his  wife,  lady  of  Hungerford  and  Molyns,  late  the  wife  of  Robert  Hunger- 
ford,  knight,  lord  of  Hungerford,  and  daughter  and  heiress  of  William 
Molyns,  knight,  lord  Molyns,  of  all  offences  committed  by  them  before 
23  October.  Licence  also  for  Oliver  to  hold  all  the  lands  which  he  has  in 
his  own  right,  and  for  him  and  Eleanor  to  hold  all  the  lands,  rents, 
reversions  and  services,  knights'  fees,  advowsons,  fairs,  markets,  views  of 
frank-pledge,  courts,  leets,  paries,  warrens,  liberties  and  franchises  which 
they  have  in  her  right,  the  manors  of  Dytton  and  Dachet,  co.  Buckingham, 
excepted.  By  p.s. 

Nov.  21.  Grant  for  life  to  John  Wellys,  for  his  good  service  to  the  king  and  his 
Westminster,  consort,  of  the  offices  of  constable  and  porter  of  the  castle  of  Exeter,  co. 

Devon,  receiving  the  accustomed  fees  from  the  issues  of  the  county  of 
Devon  with  all  other  profits,  in  the  same  manner  as  John  Sevington  had 
the  office  of  porter,  in  lieu  of  a  like  grant  to  him  of  the  said  office  of 
porter  of  the  castle  by  letters  patent  dated  .5  October,  11  Edward  IV. 
surrendered.  By  p.s. 


12  EDWARD  IV.— Part  II. 


369 


1472. 

Nov.  20. 
Westminster. 


Nov.  24. 

Westminster. 


Nov.  27. 
Westminster. 


Dec.  1. 
Westminster. 


Membrane  18 — cont. 

General  pardon  to  Henry  Elveden  alias  Elvesden  late  of  Mounteynys 
Ynge,  CO.  Essex,  the  elder,  *  gentilman,'  alias  late  of  Bmgliyng,  co. 
Hertford,  the  elder,  esquire,  alias  late  of  Westminster,  co.  Middlesex,  the 
elder,  '  gentilman.'  By  K. 

Exemplification,  at  the  request  of  the  king's  kinsman  Ralph,  lord  of 
Graystok,  knight,  of  the  tenour  of  the  enrolment  of  letters  patent  dated 
30  November,  8  Edward  IV.  {see  p.  115,)  being  a  grant  to  him  for  life  of 
certain  possessions.  These  letters  have  been  lost  by  accident,  as  he  has 
testified  in  Chancery,  and  they  will  be  surrendered  if  found. 

Presentation  of  Ambrose  Repyndon  to  the  chantry  in  the  chapel  of 
St.  John  Baptist  by  the  church  of  St.  Mary  Aldemarychirch,  London,  void 
by  the  resignation  of  Master  Thomas  Duffeld.  The  letters  are  directed 
to  Til.  cardinal  archbishop  of  Canterbury. 

Presentation  of  Thomas  Barow  to  the  parish  church  of  Cotyngham,  in 
the  diocese  of  York,  void  by  the  resignation  of  Master  Robert  Dobbes,  last 
incumbent.  By  p.s. 


1473  _  Mehbrane  17. 

Feb.  ly.        Inspeximus  and  confirmation  to  the  burgesses  of  Lanbadar  of  a  charter 
Westminster,  dated  at  Westminster,  12  June,  3  Richard  II.  [Charter  Roll,  3  Richard  II. 
No.  8],  inspecting  and  confirming  with  additions  the  following : — 

1.  A  charter  dated  at  Ellham,  28  March,  5  Edward  III.  [Charter  Roll, 

5  Edward  III,  No.  G5,J  inspecting  and  confirming  a  charter  dated 
at   Westminster,   28   December,   6   Edward   I.  [Charter  Roll, 

6  Edward  I.  No.  24.] 

2.  A   charter  of   Edward,  prince  of  Wales,  dated  at  Caerniarthen, 

4  August,  33  Edward  I.  For  IOO5.  paid  in  the  hanapcr. 

Feb.  24.        Appointment  of  John  Michell,  *  mason,' to  take  stone-cutters  and  other 
Westminster,  workmen  for  the  works  of  stones  for  cannons  for  the  king's  ordnance,  and 
stones  and  other  necessaries  and  carriage  for  the  same.  By  K. 

The  like  of  Walter  Ryvers  of  Wodestok  to  take  artificers  called 
'  flecchers  '  for  the  works  of  arrows  for  the  king's  ordnance,  and  timber, 
wax,  silk,  feathers  and  other  necessaries  and  carriage  for  the  same.    By  K. 

The  like  of  John  Smyth, '  wheler,'  to  take  carpenters  called  '  whelors  '  and 
'  cartwrightes '  and  other  carpenters  and  workmen  for  the  works  of  carts 
and  wheels  for  the  king's  ordnance,  and  timber  and  iron  and  other 
necessaries  and  carriage  for  the  same.  By  K. 

Feb.  25.        General  pardon  to  Thomas  Bendyssh  late  of  Bompstede,  co.  E.ssex,  the 
Westminster,  younger,  'gentilman,'  alias  of  Stepulbumpsted,  co.  Essex,  esquire,  alias  of 
Hadle,  co.  Suffolk,  of  all  offences  committed  by  him  before  22  February. 

By  p.s- 


Membranes  16  and  15. 

Feb.  1.  Inspeximus  and  confirmation  to  the  abbot  and  convent  of  St.  Augustine's, 
Westminster.  Bristol,  of  the  following  : — 

1.  A  charter  dated  at  Westminster,  6  March,  11  Edward  II.  [Charter 
Roll,  11  Edward  II.  No.  17,]  inspecting  and  confirming  the 
following  : — 

(1.)  A  charter  of  Henry  II. 

(2.)  Another  charter  of  the  same,  dated  at  Winchester. 
(3.)  A  charter  of  Stephen,  dated  at  Dunstable. 

y  96186.  A  A 


370 


CALENDAR  OF  PATENT  EOLLS. 


5473.  31embranes  16  and \^ — cont. 

2.  Letters   patent   dated    6  March,    11  Edward  II.   inspecting  and 

confirming  the  following  : — 

(1.)  A  charter  of  Henry,  duke  of  Normandy.    [Monasticon  VI. 
36iG.] 

(2.)  A  charter  of  Robert  son  of  Harding.  [7Z»ic?.] 
(3.)  A  charter  of  John,  count  of  Mortain.  \^Ibid.'] 

3.  A  charter  dated  at  Bristol,  2  January,  13  Edward  1.     [Charter  Roll 

13  Edioard  I.  No.  139.]  For  7  marks  paid  in  the  hauaper. 


14:72.  Membranes  14-9. 

Nov.  12.        Inspeximus  and  confirmation  to  the  prior  and  convent  of  the  cathedral 
Westmiusler.  church  of  St.  Andrew,  Rochester,  of  the  following  :  — 

1.  Letters  patent  dated  11  November,  44  Henry  III.,  releasing  to  Simon, 

then  prior,  and  the  convent  all  right  in  the  advowson  of  the  church 
of  Ho,  which  they  obtained  by  exchange  with  the  abbess  and  nuns 
of  St.  Sulpice,  Brittany. 

2.  A  charter  dated  at  Westminster.  10  November,  3  Edward  I.  [Charter 

Roll,   3   Edward  1.  No.   2,]    being  an  exemplification  of  the 
following  : — 

(1.)  A  charter  of  William  I.  \1  rectiiis  II.]  dated  at  Winchester. 

[Monasticon,  Vol.  I.  No.  XII.] 
(2.)  A  charter  of  William  I.  \rectius  II.]  dated  at  Brigstock. 

\Rid.    No.  XLIV.] 
(3.)  A  charter  of  William  I. 
(4.)  A  charter  of  William  II. 
(5.)  A  charter  of  William  II.    [Ibid. '  No.  X.] 
(6.)  A  charter  of  William  II.  dated  at  Winchester.  [Ibid.  No.  XI.] 
(7.)  A  charter  of  Henry  I.  dated  at  London. 
(8.)  A  charter  of  Henry  1.  dated  at  London.    [Ibid.    iVo.  LVL] 
(9.)  A  charter  of  Henry  I. 

(10.)  A  charter  of  Henry  I.  dated  at  Winchester.  [Ibid.  No. 
XVIIL] 

(11.)  A  charter  of  Henry  I.  dated  at  London. 
(12.)  A  charter  of  Henry  L  dated  at  Westminster.    [Ibid.  No. 
XV.] 

(13.)  A  charter  of  Henry  I.  dated  at  Rochester.  [Ibid.  iVo.  XIIL] 
(14.)  A  charter  of  Henry  I.  dated  at  Rochester,  on  the  feast  of 
St.  Gregory.    [Ibid.    No.  XIV.] 

3.  A  charter  dated  at  Westminster,  10  November,  3  Edward  I.  [Charter 

Roll,  3  Edioard  1.  No.  1,]  being  an  exemplification  of  the 
following : — 

(1.)  A  charter  of  Stephen. 

(2.)  A  charter  of  the  same,  dated  at  Rochester. 

(3.)  A  charter  of  the  same,  dated  at  Wallingford. 

(4.)  A  charter  of  Henry  II.  dated  at  Westminster. 

(5.)  A  charter  of  Henry  II.  dated  at  Nottingham.  [Monasticon, 
No.  LL] 

(6.)  A  charter  dated  at  Worms,  30  August,  [4]  Richard  I. 
(7.)  A  charter  dated  at  Spires,  16  August,  [4]  Richard  I. 

4.  A  charter  dated  at  Newcastle  on  Tyne,  2  July,  9  Edward  III. 

[Charter  Roll,  9  Edward  III.  No.  36,]  inspecting  and  confirming 
a  charter  dated  at  Westminster,  3  December,  50  Henry  III. 
inspecting  and  confirming  the  following  : — 

(I.)  A  charter  of  William  II.    [No.  2  (4)  above.] 
(2.)  A  charter  of  William  I.  dated  at  Winchester.   [No.  2  (1) 
above.] 


12  EDWAEU  IV.— Part  II. 


371 


1472,  Memhranes  14-9 — cont. 

(3.)  A  charter  of  Henry  I.  dated  at  London.    [No.  2  (?)  aiore.] 
(4.)  A  charter  of  Henry  I.  dated  at  Winchester.    [No.  2  (10) 
al/ove.] 

(5.)  A  charter  of  Henry  II.  dated  at  Nottingham.    [No.  3  (5) 
above.] 

(6.)  A  charter  of  Henry  II.  dated  at  Westminster.    [No.  3  (4) 
above.] 

(7.)  A  charter  of  Richard  I.   dated  at  Worms.    [No.  3  (6) 
above.] 

(8.)  A  charter  of  Richard  I.  dated  at  Spires.    [No.  3  (7)  above.] 
(9.)  A  charter  dated  at  Andelys  by  the  hand  of  E.  dean  of 
Salisbury,  vice-chancellor,  7  April,  7  Richard  I. 

5.  A  charter  dated  at  Westminster,  16  March,  10  Edward  III.  [Charter 

lioll,  10  Edtvard  III.  No.  51,]  inspecting  and  confirming  the  said 
charter  of  50  Henry  III. 

6.  A  charter  dated  at  Renham,  10  September,  23  Edward  III.  [rectiusl.] 

[  Charter  Roll,  23  Edward  I.  No.  7.] 

7.  Letters  patent  dated  23  April,  18  Edward  III.  granting  to  them  the 

king's  ditch  without  the  wall  of  the  city  of  Rochester. 

8.  Letters  patent  dated  5  August,  19  Edward  III.  granting  licence  for 

them  to  crenellate  a  wall. 

9.  Letters  patent  dated  20  July,  43  Edward  III.  granting  certain 

tenements  and  rents  to  them. 

10.  Letters  patent  dated  28  December,  48  Edward  HI.  granting  licence 
for  the  alienation  in  mortmain  to  them  by  Robert  Beleknappe, 
knight,  of  the  manor  of  Sharstede  by  Roucestrc,  23  acres  of  land, 
80  acres  of  pasture  and  one  acre  of  wood  in  Clietham  and  Woldeham, 
and  a  moiety  of  the  manor  of  Lydesynge  at  a  rent  of  22  marks 
yearly  to  find  a  monk  to  celebrate  divine  service. 

11.  Letters  patent  29  May,  16  Richard  II.  concerning  the  said  rent. 

12.  Letters  patent  dated  1  December,  G  Richard  II.  confirming  the  grant 

of  the  said  Robert  Belcknap  at  a  reduced  rent  of  20  marks. 

13.  Letters  patent  dated  5  August,  12  Richard  II.  granting  to  John  de 

Scarle  the  said  rent  of  £0  marks,  forfeited  by  the  said  Robert 
Bealknap. 

14.  Letters  patent  dated  10  September,  18  Richard  II.  granting  licence 
for  the  acquisition  in  mortmain  by  them  of  possessions  to  the  value 
of  100  marks  yearly.  For  6  marks  paid  in  the  hanaper. 

Membrane  8. 

Dec.  5.  Whereas  Henry  III.  by  charter  granted  that  the  city  of  Salisbury  should 
Westminster,  be  a  free  city  of  the  bishop  of  Salisbury,  who  should  hold  it  as  his  own 
demesne,  and  Edward  III.  by  charter  granted  to  Roger,  then  bishop,  that 
he  and  his  successors  should  have  return  of  writs  and  attachments  within 
the  same,  which  charters  the  king  has  confirmed,  and  the  citizens  of  the 
city  have  yearly  elected  a  mayor  and  other  officers  from  among  themselves 
and  presented  them  to  the  steward  of  the  bishop  to  take  the  accustomed 
oaths,  but  nevertheless  on  account  of  certain  dissensions  they  have  now 
elected  a  mayor  and  other  officers  who  have  refused  to  take  these  oaths ; 
the  king  hereby  confirms  to  Richard,  now  bishop,  and  his  successors  all 
their  rights  and  privileges  in  this,  and  grants  that  the  election  of  mayor 
shall  take  place  on  All  Souls  Day  in  each  year  at  a  place  within  the  city 
to  be  appointed  by  the  bishop,  and  the  mayor  elect  shall  take  oath 
before  the  steward  or  other  minister  of  the  bishop  for  the  office  of  mayor 
during  the  ensuing  year,  and  if  he  die  or  be  removed  from  office  by  the 
bishop  for  reasonable  cause  within  the  year  another  shall  be  elected  for  the 

A  A  2 


372 


CALENDAR  OF  PATENT  ROLLS. 


14:72.  Membrane  8 — cont. 

residue  of  the  year,  and  the  other  officers  shall  be  elected  in  like  manner, 
and  failing  such  election  the  bishop  shall  nominate  the  major  or  officers 
after  eight  days,  and  the  bishop  with  the  advice  and  assent  of  the  dean  and 
chapter  of  the  church  of  St.  Mary,  Salisbury,  shall  make  ordinances  for  the 
good  governance  of  the  city,  and  the  bishop  shall  have  Serjeants  at  mace, 
but  not  more  than  four,  with  maces  silver  or  gilt  and  adorned  with  the 
king's  arms  to  execute  their  office  at  his  command,  and  he  shall  also  have 
a  gaol  within  the  city.  By  p.s. 

Nov.  10.  Licence  for  William,  lord  of  Hastynges,  and  Ralph  Hastynges,  knights, 
Westminster,  to  found  a  fratei'nity  or  gild  of  themselves  and  other  men  and  women  in 
honour  of  the  Holy  Cross  called  'the  Holy  Rode  in  the  Wall'  within  the 
parish  church  of  St.  Gregory  the  Pope,  Norhampton,  and  for  the  brethren 
and  sisters  of  the  gild  to  elect  yearly  from  themselves  an  alderman  and  two 
wardens  for  the  governance  of  the  gild  and  its  possessions  and  to  remove 
them  and  appoint  others.  They  shall  form  one  body  with  a  common  seal, 
with  power  to  plead  and  be  impleaded,  to  meet  for  the  good  rule  of  the 
gild  and  to  acquire  lands  and  rents,  not  held  in  chief,  to  the  value  of  20/. 
yearly  within  the  said  town  or  elsewhere  to  support  chaplains  to  celebrate 
divine  service  there  for  the  good  estate  of  the  king  and  his  consort 
Elizabeth,  queen  of  England,  and  their  descendants  and  the  founders  and 
other  brethren  and  sisters  of  the  gild  and  for  their  souls  after  death  and  the 
souls  of  the  king's  father  Richard,  late  duke  of  York,  and  the  king's 
progenitors  according  to  the  ordinance  of  the  alderman  and  wardens. 

By  K. 


Membrane  7. 


Aug.  17. 

Westminster. 


Oct.  12. 

Westminster. 


Oct.  12. 

Westminster. 

Dec.  1. 
Westminster. 


Dec.  3. 
Westminster. 

1473. 

Jan.  21. 
Westminster. 


Pardon  to  Robert  Strelley  alias  Streuley  of  Strelley,  co.  Nottingham, 
knight,  late  sheriff  of  Nottingham  and  Derby,  of  all  offences  committed  by 
him  before  6  August  and  all  fines,  amercements  and  issues  due  from  him  to 
the  king  before  that  date  and  all  debts,  accounts  and  arrears  due  from  him 
to  the  king  before  29  September,  9  Edward  IV.  By  p.s. 

Grant  for  life  to  William  Sturton  of  Sturton,  knight,  and  John 
his  son  and  heir,  esquire,  of  the  office  of  keeper  of  the  king's  forest, 
hay,  or  park  of  Petherton  by  Briggewator,  co.  Somerset,  with  all  fees, 
rents,  courts,  amercements,  forfeitures',  herbage,  pannage,  agistments  and 
other  profits  in  the  same  manner  as  John  Risshe  or  anyone  else  had  the 
same,  in  lieu  of  a  like  grant  to  the  said  John  Risshe  by  letters  patent  dated 
3  June,  11  Edward  IV.  surrendered.  By  p.s. 

General  pardon  to  John  Whighton  of  London,  '  bruer.'  By  p.s. 

Grant  to  John  Godyer  and  John  Wayte  of  the  custody  of  the  manor  of 
Little  Reynes  and  the  advowson  of  the  church  of  Little  Reynes,  co.  Essex, 
late  of  Eleanor  the  daughter  and  heiress  of  William  de  Roschebrook  and 
Joan  his  wife,  deceased,  tenant  in  chief,  and  in  the  king's  hands  on  her 
death  though  Henry  Lestraunge  her  kinsman  and  heir  is  alive  and  of  full 
age,  to  hold  from  Michaelmas  last  so  long  as  they  remain  in  the  king's  hands, 
rendering  to  the  king  yearly  10/.  and  6*.  8d.  of  increment  and  supporting 
the  houses,  enclosures,  buildings  and  other  charges.  By  p.s. 

Appointment  during  pleasure  of  John  Langton  as  controller  of  the 
scrutiny  in  the  port  of  Kyngeston  on  Hull  and  ports  and  places  adjacent, 
receiving  the  accustomed  fees.  By  bill  of  the  treasurer. 

Appointment  of  Thomas  Blanchard  to  take  workmen  called  '  bowyers  ' 
and  '  flechers  '  and  other  workmen  for  the  works  of  the  king's  ordnance,  and 


12  EDWARD  IV.— Part  11. 


373 


1473.  Membrane  1 — cont. 

arrows,  *  bowestaves,'  '  bowestringes,'  '  laugedebeves,'  lauces,  *  gleyves,' 
hammers  and  otiier  necessaries  for  the  ordnance.  By  K. 


1472. 

April  28. 
"Westminster. 


1473. 

Feb.  24. 

Westmiuster. 


Feb.  25. 
Westminster. 

Feb.  25. 
Westminster, 


March  1. 
Westminster. 


Jan.  4. 
Westminster. 


3IEMBRANB  6. 

Grant  to  Gilbert  Debenham,  knight,  one  of  the  king's  carvers,  and 
Gill>ert  Debenham,  esquire,  of  the  custody  of  the  manors  of  Hampton  Mesy 
and  Clifton,  co.  Gloucester,  and  Castelleton  and  Imnier,  co.  Wilts,  and  a 
messuage  and  100  acres  of  meadow  and  land  in  Maydeneuton,  co.  Dorset, 
which  Katharine  late  the  Avife  of  the  said  Gilbert  and  sometime  the  wife  of 
William  Zouche,  knight,  held  for  life  of  tlie  grant  of  William  Zouche, 
knight,  late  lord  of  Zouche  and  Seymor,  to  her  and  the  said  William  her 
husband  and  his  heirs,  and  the  custody  of  the  manor  of  Wenfride  Egle, 
CO.  Dorset,  the  manor  of  Cornworthi  with  the  advowson  of  the  nunnery  of 
Cornworthi,  co.  Devon,  and  the  manor  of  Chapecombe,  co.  Somerset,  which 
the  said  Katharine  lately  held  in  dower  on  the  death  of  the  said  William 
her  husband,  all  of  wliich  premises  she  held  in  chief  by  knight-service, 
during  the  minoricy  of  John  Zouche,  son  and  heir  of  the  said  William,  and 
so  from  heir  to  heir,  without  rendering  any  account.  By  p.s. 

Grant  in  frank  almoin  to  William  Pole,  sometime  one  of  the  yeomen  of 
the  crown,  smitten  with  leprosy,  of  a  parcel  of  land  lying  io  tho  highway 
between  Highgate  and  Holwcy,  co.  Middlesex,  containing  GO  feet  in  length 
and  24  feet  in  l^rcadth,  to  tho  intent  that  he  may  build  a  hospital  with  a 
chapel  in  honour  of  St.  Anthony,  for  the  relief  of  divers  persons  smitten 
with  this  sickness  and  destitute  and  walking  at  large  within  tlie  realm. 

By  p.s.  [3663.] 

Grant  for  life  to  the  king's  servant  William  Grove,  '  carpenter,'  of  the 
ofRce  of  master  carpenter  of  the  king's  works  within  the  castle  of  Wyndcsore 
with  the  accustomed  fees  from  the  issues  of  tlic  castle.  By  p.s. 

Mandate  to  the  escheator  in  the  counties  of  Norfolk  and  Suffolk  for  the 
restitution  of  the  temporalities  of  the  bishopric  of  Nortvich  to  ]\Iaster 
James  Gokhvell,  whom  the  pope  has  appointed  bishop  in  the  place  of 
Walter,  last  bishop,  deceased, and  who  has  renounced  everything  prejudicial 
to  the  crown  in  the  bull  of  the  j)ope  by  John  Foggc,  hi.s  attorney,  and 
whose  fealty  the  king  has  respited  until  his  retiu'n  from  the  court  of  Home 
where  he  has  gone  on  the  king's  service.    \_F(i'ilcra.']  By  p.s. 

The  like  to  the  escheators  in  the  following  counties : — 
Essex. 
Middlesex. 

The  like  to  Philip  Best,  mayor  of  Norwich,  escheator  in  that  city. 
Writ  de  intendcndo  to  the  tenants  of  the  see. 

Grant  to  the  king's  kinsman  Thomas,  cardinal  arclibishop  of  Canterbury, 
for  a  certain  sum  of  money  paid  by  him  to  the  king,  of  the  custody  of  all 
manors,  lands,  rents,  services,  and  other  hereditaments  late  of  Robert 
Watton,  deceased,  tenant  in  chief,  in  the  county  of  Kent  during  the  minority 
of  Katharine  his  daughter  and  heiress  and  the  custody  and  marriage  of  the 
latter  without  disparagement,  and  so  from  heir  to  heir.  \_Fcvdcra.'\ 

By  p.s. 

Licence  for  the  king's  kinsman  Thomas,  cardinal  archbishop  of  Canter- 
bury, Robert,  bishop  of  Bath  and  Wells  and  chancellor,  the  king's  kinsmen 
John,  duke  of  Norfolk,  John,  duke  of  Suffolk,  William,  earl  of  Arundel, 
Henry,  earl  of  Essex,  and  Anthony,  earl  of  liyvers  and  lord  of  Scales  and 
Nucelles,  John  Say,  knight,  and  Robert  Isham,  esquire,  to  grant  the 
manors  of  Racheford   alias  Rocheford,  Lye,  Pakelesham  and  Folnesse, 


874 


CALENDAR  OP  PATENT  ROLLS. 


1473.  Membrane  6 — cont. 

CO.  Essex,  with  all  lands,  rents,  reversions  and  services  of  tenants,  held  in 
chief,  to  Thomas  Grey,  son  of  the  king's  consort  Elizabeth,  queen  of 
England,  and  Anne  his  wife,  daughter  of  the  king's  sister  Anne,  duchess  of 
Exeter,  and  the  heirs  of  their  bodies  with  successive  remainders  to  the 
said  duchess  and  the  heirs  of  her  body  and  the  queen  and  her  heirs  and 
assigns.    And  this  without  fine  or  fee.  By  p.s. 

Feb.  27.  Licence,  for  4  marks  paid  in  the  hanaper,  for  the  king's  kinsman  Thomas, 
Westminster,  cardinal  archbishop  of  Canterbury,  and  Thomas  Delamare,  esquire,  to  grant 
the  manor  of  Aldermanston,  co.  Berks,  held  in  chief,  to  Richard,  bishop  of 
Salisbury,  John  Morton,  clerk,  keeper  of  the  rolls  of  Chancery,  Thomas 
Chauudeler,  clerk,  Richard  Chokke,  knight,  Maurice  Berkeley,  knight, 
William  Norres,  knight,  John  Baker,  clerk,  William  Bocher,  clerk,  Richard 
Fouler,  John  Pury,  esquire,  William  Danvers,  Bernard  Delamare,  esquire, 
Robert  Baynard,  esquire,  James  Vyell,  esquire,  Christopher  Hanyngton 
and  Richard  Kyngesmyll  and  their  heirs  and  assigns. 

Feb.  12.  Exemplification,  at  the  request  of  the  undermentioned  prior  and  convent, 
Westmiuster.  of  the  tenour  of  the  enrolment  of  letters  patent  dated  11  Api'il,  1  Edward  IV. 

committing  to  Robert,  the  prior,  and  the  convent  of  Ledes  by  mainprise  of 
William  Welden  of  London,  '  gentilman,'  and  John  Rogger  of  London, 
'gentilman,'  the  custody  of  the  manor  and  lordship  of  Ledes  and  the 
agistment  of  the  park  there  for  20  years  from  Easter  then  last  past, 
rendering  to  the  king  yearly  24/.  and  \2d.  of  increment  and  supporting  all 
charges.  These  letters  have  been  lost  by  accident,  as  John  Roggers  has 
taken  oath  in  Chancery,  and  Avill  be  surrendered  if  found. 


1472. 

Sept.  29. 

Westmiiister. 


June  15. 
Westminster. 


Aug.  27. 

Westminster. 


Oct.  17. 

Westminster. 

Nov.  6. 
Westminster. 


Membrane  5. 

Pardon  to  Thomas  Pynde,  citizen  and  draper  of  London,  late  one  of  the 
customers  of  the  petty  custom  and  collector  of  the  35.  in  the  tun  and  the 
12d.  in  the  pound  in  the  port  of  London,  of  all  ofiences  committed  by  him 
and  all  debts,  accounts,  issues  and  arrears  due  from  him  to  the  king  before 
27  September.  By  K. 

The  like  to  John  Brampton,  citizen  and  '  stokfisshemonger  '  of  London, 
late  one  of  the  customers  of  the  petty  custom  and  collector  of  the  3s.  in  the 
tun  and  the  I2d.  in  the  pound  in  the  said  port.  By  K. 

Grant  for  life  to  the  king's  servitor  William  Parker,  yeoman  of  the 
scullery,  of  two  tenements  and  three  closes  of  pasture  in  the  parish  of 
St.  Maurice  without  Munkebarre,  York,  of  the  yearly  value  of  5  marks,  of 
which  Gilbert  Smerthwayte  of  York, '  yoman,'  was  seised  and  which  were 
taken  into  the  hands  of  the  late  king  because  he  murdered  a  man  of  that 
city.  By  p.s. 

Whereas  Hugh  Courtenay,  knight,  deceased,  long  ago  made  his 
testament  and  last  will  and  appointed  Master  Robert  Ascu,  canon  of  the 
cathedral  church  of  St.  Peter,  Exeter,  Margaret  Denys  and  Michael  Denys 
his  executors  to  fulfil  the  same,  and  afterwards  fought  against  the  king  in 
the  battle  of  Tewkesbury,  and  accordingly  his  goods,  chattels  and  debts 
belonged  to  the  king  by  reason  of  his  rebellion,  the  king  nevertheless  grants 
these  to  the  said  executors  to  pay  the  debts  of  the  said  Hugh  for  the 
safety  of  his  soul  and  to  fulfil  his  will.  By  p.s. 

Li^tters  of  denization,  without  fine  or  fee,  for  Bartholomew  Deux,  horn  in 
the  duchy  of  Gueldres,  and  the  heirs  of  his  body.  By  p.s. 

Pardon  to  Richard  Now  ers  of  Old  Wodestoke,  co.  Oxford,  '  gentilman,' 
of  his  outlawry  in  the  county  of  Surrey  for  not  appearing  before  the  king 
at  Westminster  to  answer  Edward  Hunte  of  Spellisbury,  co.  Oxford, 
'laborer,'  for  having  with  John  Nowers  of  Takley,  co.  Oxford,  esquire, 


12  EDWARD  IV  Pakt  II. 


375 


1472.  Membrane  5 — cont. 

Thomas  Lydeard  of  Glymton,  co.  Oxford,  esquire,  Hugh  Bramburgh  late 
of  Bristol,  '  marchaunt,'  Walter  Duke  of  Hampton  Gave,  co.  Oxford, 
'  yoman,'  and  John  Mery  of  Salford,  co.  Oxford,  '  husbondman,'  conspired 
at  Guldeford  to  cause  the  said  Edward  to  be  charged  with  having  lain 
armed  in  ambush  on  the  highway  at  Spellysbury  with  Walter  Tylmyngton 
of  Spellisbury,  '  wever,'  on  Trinity  Sunday,  38  Henry  VI.  and  assaulted 
John  Noweis  and  Thomas  Lydiard  and  robbed  them  of  a  casket  worth 
16«/.,  5  marks  in  money  and  a  sword  worth  5.?.,  and  so  to  be  detained  in 
prison  at  Oxford  until  he  was  acquitted  before  Richard  Quatermayns  and 
Bichard  Danvers  and  their  fellows,  justices  of  oyer  and  terminer  in  the 
county  of  Oxford  ;  the  said  Richard  having  surrendered  to  the  Marshalsea 
prison,  as  Thomas  Byllyng,  chief  justice  of  tlie  King's  Bench,  has  certified. 

1473.  Membrane  4. 

Jan  23.  Grant  for  life  to  the  king's  kinsman  Anthony,  earl  of  Riviers,  of 
Westminster.  ]33/.  6s.  Sd.  yearly  from  Michaelmas  last  from  the  subsidy  of  the  3*.  in  the 
tun  and  the  \2(l.  in  tlie  pound  in  tlie  port  of  London,  in  lieu  of  a  like 
grant  to  him  of  the  same  sum,  parcel  of  a  like  grant  of  200/.  from  the 
customs  and  subsidies  in  tlie  ports  of  Bishop's  Leun  and  Great  Jermouthe 
by  letters  patent  dated  4  Ajjril,  10  Edward  IV.  surrendered.  By  p.s. 

Grant  also  to  him  as  above  of  33/.  6*.  8</.  yearly  from  the  customs  and 
subsidies  in  the  ports  of  Bishop's  Lenn  and  Great  Jermouthe.  By  p.s. 

Grant  also  to  him  as  above  of  33/.  G*-.  8(/.  yearly  from  the  customs  and 
subsidies  in  the  port  of  Sandwich.  By  p.s. 

Jan.  29.        Grant  for  life  to  John  Seymour,  serjcant  of  tlie  king's  vestiary  (vciti- 
Westminster.  hularic),  of  the  hospital  or  chapel  of  St.  John  Baptist,  OclyfF,  co.  Bedford, 
void  by  the  resignation  of  John  Burgh,  clerk,  last  incumbent. 

By  p.s.  [3641.] 

Jan.  14.       General  pardon  to  Henry  Hammes  late  of  London,  esquire,  alias  late  of 
Westminster.  Mile  End,  co.  Middlesex,  alias  late  of  Brantfeld,  co.  Hertford,  alias  late  of 
Goseys  in  the  parish  of  Hornchurch,  co.  E.ssex,  of  all  offences  committed  by 
him  before  II  January.  By  p.s. 

1472. 

Dec.  2.  General  pardon  to  JohnFyssher  of  Taunton,  co.  Somerset,  'wever,'  alias 
Westminster,  'yoman,'  of  all  offences  committed  by  him  before  27  November  last. 

By  p.s. 

Dec.  15.  Grant  to  John  Sutton,  the  prior,  and  the  convent  of  the  house  and  church 
Westminster,  of  St.  Mary,  Doncastrc,  co.  York,  of  friars  of  liie  order  of  Carmelite.s 
which  is  of  tlie  foundation  of  the  king's  progenitors  and  of  the  king's 
patronage,  that  they  shall  form  one  body  with  power  to  plead  and  be 
impleaded  and  sliall  have  perpetual  succession  and  a  common  seal,  and 
grant  to  them  of  licence  to  acquire  lands,  rents  and  other  possessions,  not 
held  in  chief,  in  frank  almoin  to  the  value  of  20/.  yearly.  By  p.s. 

Oct.  14.  General  pardon  to  David  Morgan  late  of  London,  *  taillour,'  of  all  offences 
Westminster,  committed  by  him  before  29  August  last.  By  p.s 

Membrane  3, 

Nov.  30.  Licence  for  the  alienation  in  mortmain  by  the  king's  kinsman  Thomas, 
Westminster,  cardinal  archbishop  of  Canterbury,  Laurence,  bishop  of  Durham,  Thomas, 
bishop  of  Lincoln,  late  bishop  of  Rochester,  John  Wyngefcld,  knight, 
Thomas  Wynterburn,  clerk,  John  Clerk,  one  of  the  barons  of  the 
Exchequer,  John  Bromston,  esquire,  Alexander  Wode  and  William  Duraunt 
l6  William,  the  prior,  and  the  convent  of  Christ  Church,  Canterbury,  of  the 


376 


CALENDAR  OF  PATENT  ROLLS, 


1472.  Membrane  3 — cont. 

lordship  or  manor  of  Panfeld  alias  the  priory  of  Panfeld,  with  all  lands, 
meadows,  pastures,  woods,  rents  and  services  belonging  to  it  in  the  county 
of  Essex  and  the  city  of  London,  held  in  chief  by  the  service  of  a  red  rose  at 
Midsummer.  By  K. 

Nov.  26.        Exemplification,  at  the  request  of  "William  Kirkby,  prior  of  Tykeford,  of 
Westminster,  the  tenour  of  the  enrolment  of  letters  patent  dated  11  August,  5  Edward  II, 
\_Monastico)i,  vol.  v.p.  202],  confirming  the  possessions  of  the  priory  and 
granting  to  William  de  la  Alenerere,  then  prior,  that  he  and  his  successors 
should  have  pillory  and  tumbrel  at  Tykeford, 

Dec.  1.         Grant  for  life  to  John  Scotte,  knight,  Vincent  Fynch  and  Robert 
Westminster.  Worthington  of  the  office  of  chirography  in  the  Common  Bench,  with  the 
accustomed  fees,  in  lieu  of  a  like  grant  to  the  said  John  and  to  William 
Beaufitz  and   Henry  Unton,  now   deceased,   by   letters   patent  dated 
1  December,  1  Edward  IV,  surrendered.  By  p.s, 

1473, 

Feb.  5,         Presentation  of   Elias  Walsche,  chaplain,  to  the  perpetual  chantry  of 
Westminster.  St.  Luke  the  Evangelist  in  Neutou  Popilford  of  and  within  the  parish  of 
Aillesbeare,  in  the  diocese  of  Exeter,  void  by  the  resignation  of  Roger 
Payn,  last  chaplain. 

Membrane  2, 

Feb.  10.  Inspexhmis  and  confirmation  to  the  abbot  and  convent  of  Boxle,  of  the 
Westminster.  Cistercian  order,  of  a  charter  dated  at  Westminster,  10  June,  1 8  Edward  I. 

[Char/er  Boll,  18  Edward  I.  A^o.  48,]  inspecting  and  confirming  the 
following : — 

1.  A  charter  dated  at  Rociie  Andelys  by  the  hand  of  Master  Roscelin, 

vice-chancellor,  10  November,  10  Richard  I.  renewing  a  charter 
dated  at  Dover  by  the  hand  of  W.  de  Longo  Campo,  bishop  of  Ely, 
■    the  chancellor,  7  December,  1  Richard  I. 

2.  A  charter  dated  at  Kenyton,  10  January,  37  Henry  III. 

For  20s,  paid  in  the  hanaper, 

March  3.       Grant  for  life  to  the  king's  servant  William  Cludde,  yeoman  of  the  pantry, 
Westminster,  of  a  house  under  the  Exchequer  of  Westminster  with  a  door  opening  out 
towards  the  king's  palace  there  and  adjoining  a  house  called  '  Hell.' 

By  p.s.  [3674.] 

March  1.  Grant  to  the  king's  kinsman  Tliomas,  cardinal  archbishop  of  Canterbury, 
Westminster,  for  a  certain  sum  of  money  paid  by  him  to  the  king,  of  the  custody  of  all 
manors,  lands,  rents,  services  .and  other  hereditaments  late  of  Robert 
Watton,  deceased,  tenant  in  chief,  in  the  county  of  Kent  during  the 
minority  of  Katharine  his  daughter  and  heiress  and  the  custody  and 
marriage  of  the  latter  without  disparagement,  and  so  from  heir  to  heir, 
[Fcedera.]  By  p.s. 

1472.  Membrane  1. 

Nov.  27.       Licence  for  Anthony  Wydevyle,  earl  Rivers  and  lord  of  Scales  and 
Westminster.  Nucels,  son   and   heir   of  Richard  Widevyle,  late  earl  Rivers,  tenant 
in  chief,  to  enter  freely  into  all  possessions  which  should  descend  to  him  on 
the  death  of  his  father,  saving  to  the  king,  homage,  fealty  and  other  services. 

By  p.s. 

Membrane  31c?. 

July  14,  Commission  of  oyer  and  terminer  to  Fulk  Bourghcher  of  Fitz  Wareyn, 
Westminster,  knight,  John  Dynham,  knight,  Thomas  Billyng,  Thomas  Bryan,  John 


12  EDWARD  IV.— Part  II, 


377 


1472.  Membrane  31c? — cont. 

Nedeham,  knight,  Richard  Chokke,  knight,  Thomas  Iijtelton,  John 
Crokker,  knight,  John  Catesby,  one  of  the  king's  Serjeants  at  law,  John 
Halewell,  esquire,  Richard  Pomerey,  esquire,  Thomas  Doweryssh  and  John 
Orchard  touching  certain  felonies,  riots  and  other  oifences  committed  hj 
John  Fitz  the  elder,  '  gentilraan,'  John  Fitz  tlie  younger,  '  gentilman.'  John 
Sawle,  '  gentilman,'  John  Toker,  'chapman,'  Walter  Gylle,  '  toker,'  William 
Assheford,  '  marchant,'  Nicholas  Ware, '  cordewauer,'  John  Bruyn  *  toker,' 
William  Webbe,  '  marchauut,'  John  Aleyn,  '  yoman,'  Laurence  Aleyn, 
'  skynner,'  William  Drake,  '  smyth,'  John  Forster,  '  bocher,' John  Massy, 
'chapman,'  Robert  Brune,  'yoman,'  John  Crausy,  'yoman,'  and  James 
Brounbrom,  'yoman,'  all  of  Tavystok,  co.  Devon.  By  K. 

Sept.  10.  Commission  to  John  Nesfeld,  esquire,  to  arrest  Thomas  Radley  and 
Westminster,  bring  him  before  the  king  in  Chancery. 


Membrane  25d. 

Nov.  26.        Appointment,  until  2G  May,  of  Robert  Gregory,  yeoman  of  the  avenary 
Westminster,  of  the    household,  to  purvey  hay,  oats,   horse-bread,  litter  and  other 
necessaries  for  the  office  of  the  avenary  of  the  household  and  carriage  for 
the  same.  By  bill  of  the  steward  of  the  household. 

The  like  of  the  following  : — 

John  Jenyns,  yeoman  of  the  avenary  of  the  household. 
Thomas  Ro.sse,  yeoman  of  the  avenary  of  the  household. 
John  Russell,  yeoman  of  the  avenary  of  the  household. 

The  like  of  John  Cawcthorn,  yeoman  purveyor  of  the  office  of  buyer 
of  the  household,  to  purvey  oxen,  muttons,  calves,  pigs,  salt  and  fresh 
water  fish  and  other  things  pertaining  to  his  office  and  carriage  for  the 
same. 

The  like  of  John  Gardner,  yeoman  purveyor  of  the  office  of  the  poultry 
of  the  household,  to  purvey  capons,  hens,  sAvans,  ducks,  eggs  and  other 
necessaries  and  carriage  for  the  same. 


Membrane  23d. 

Nov.  30.  Commission  to  Henry  Bodrugan,  C3([uire,  and  Geoffrey  Warton,  one  of 
Westminster,  the  king's  sergeants  at  arms,  to  enquire  into  the  complaint  of  Julian 
Martin,  master  and  merchant  of  a  ship  called  Seint  Nicholas  of  Spain, 
that  when  the  said  ship  had  been  freighted  with  figo,  sweet  wine  and  oil 
in  Portugal  and  was  sailing  to  Spain  certain  men  of  Fowey  came  upon  it 
and  put  him  and  his  fcllowshi])  to  the  number  of  sixteen  persons  ashore  in 
their  own  country  and  carried  off  the  said  sliip  and  goods,  contrary  to  the 
form  of  the  truces  between  the  king  and  his  kinsman  the  king  of  Spain, 
and  to  cause  restitution  to  be  made. 

Commission  to  William  Ilolbek,  mayor  of  York,  Ralph  vVssheton,  knight, 
Thomas  Neleson,  Richard  Claybrok  and  Wiliiani  Tinilkeld,  seijeant  at 
arms,  on  information  that  Thomas  Darneton,  monk,  has  gathered  together 
certain  evildoers  and  gone  to  the  monastery  of  Holy  Trinity,  York,  entered 
into  divers  of  its  lands  and  possessions,  wasted  the  issues,  goods  and  jewels, 
imprisoned  Henry  Leke,  Robert  Holowes  and  Jolin  Ryby,  monks  of  the 
monastery,  and  threatened  the  other  monks,  and  because  on  the  complaint 
of  Robert  Iloby  and  other  monks  of  the  monastery  in  Chancery  and  in 
council  the  king  summoned  the  said  Thomas  Darneton  and  others  to 
appear  before  him  but  they  have  refused,  to  arrest  them  and  bring  them 
before  the  king  in  Chancery  and  to  deliver  the  said  Henry,  Robert  and  John 
from  prison. 


Dec.  14. 
Westminster. 


378 


CALENDAR  OF  PATENT  ROLLS. 


1473.  Membrane  22d — cont. 

Feb.  15.        Commission  to  Christoplier  Marchall,  mayor  of  York,  and  the  sheriffs  of 
Westminster,  the  same  city  to  arrest  Thomas  Darneton,  monk,  Robert  Marchall,  monk, 
John  Garlond,  monk,  Thomas  Sergeauntson  and  Christopher  Benteley  and 
bring  them  before  the  king  and  council. 


1472. 

Dec.  13. 

Westminstar. 


1473. 

Feb.  14. 
Westminster. 


Membrane  20d. 

Commission  to  Henry  Bodrugan,  John  Penfoun,  Thomas  Trefry, 
Thomas  Lucombe  and  Richard  Joce  to  enquire  into  the  complaint  of  Martin 
Perys,  master  of  a  ship  called  le  Katerine  of  Castro  in  Spain,  and  Peter 
Sauns,  merchant  and  owner  of  the  goods  and  merchandise  in  the  said  ship, 
that  when  the  ship  was  sailing  at  sea  laden  with  82  tuns  and  one  pipe  of 
■white  wine  of  Rochelle  and  other  goods  and  merchandise  to  the  value  of 
536/.  certain  pirates  in  a  ship  called  le  Barbara  of  Fowey,  co.  Cornwall, 
of  which  John  Devyok,  William  Hurde,  Thomas  Ravyn,  Nicholas  Barbour 
and  William  Dawe  were  owners  and  victuallers  and  John  Barkeley  master, 
came  upon  them  and  despoiled  them  of  the  ship,  wines,  goods  and 
merchandise,  contrary  to  the  form  of  the  truces  between  the  king  and  his 
kinsman  the  king  of  Spain,  and  to  cause  restitution  to  be  made. 

Commission  to  John  "VYaynflete,  esquire,  sergeant  at  arms,  to  arrest 
William  Yelverton,  '  gentilman,'  Robert  Whymbergli  and  John  Burges 
and  bring  them  before  the  king  and  council  on  the  quinzaine  of  Easter 
next. 


Membrane  Idd. 

Feb.  12.  Commission  to  John  Pilkynton,  knight,  Hugh  Haystynges,  knight, 
Westminster.  Richard  Pygott,  sergeant  at  law,  Robert  Sheffeld,  William  Elande,  Edmund 
Malleverer,  esquire,  .fohn  Arthyngtou,  esquire,  William  Bradeford,  Edward 
Goldesburgh  and  the  sheriff  of  York  to  enquire  into  a  petition  by  William 
Rither,  knight,  kinsman  and  heir  male  of  V/illiam  Rither,  knight,  and 
Sibyl  his  wife,  viz.  son  and  heir  of  William  Rither  their  son  and^^heir, 
that  whereas  by  a  fine  levied  at  Westminster  in  the  octave  of  Midsummer, 
4  Henry  IV.  before  William  Thirnyng  and  his  fellows,  then  justices  of  the 
Bench,  between  William  Barker  of  Tadcastre  and  Thomas  Thwates  of 
Lofthous,  complainants,  and  William  Rither  and  Sibyl  his  wife,  deforciants, 
concerning  among  other  things  a  moiety  of  the  manor  of  Harwod, 
CO.  York,  of  which  a  moiety  of  1,000  acres  of  wood  and  pasturage  of 
Harwod  called  '  Swyndon '  were  then  parcel,  the  said  \'Villiam  and  Sibyl 
acknowledged  the  moiety  of  the  manor  to  be  the  right  of  the  said  William 
Barker  as  that  which  he  and  the  said  Thomas  had  of  their  grant  and 
the  latter  granted  it  to  theui  and  the  heirs  male  of  their  bodies,  and  they 
were  seised  of  it  and  received  the  esplees  thereof  and  the  right  of  the  same 
descended  from  them  to  William  their  son  and  heir  and  from  him  to  the 
said  petitioner  as  his  son  and  heir,  nevertheless  Henry  IV.  claimed  that 
the  said  moiety  of  1,000  acres  belonged  to  him  as  parcel  of  the  honour  and 
manor  of  Knaresburgh,  parcel  of  the  duchy  of  Lancaster,  and  caused  it  to 
be  taken  into  his  hands  by  Peter  Bukton,  knight,  then  constable  and 
steward  of  the  duchy,  and  the  said  William  and  Sibyl  his  w^ife  to  be 
removed  from  possession,  and  it  came  successively  into  the  hands  of 
Henry  V.  and  Henry  VI.  and  finally  into  the  hands  of  the  present  ki'ig 
where  it  still  remains,  wherefore  the  petitioner  prays  that  justice  may  be 
done.  By  K. 


12  EDWARD  IV.— Part  II. 


379 


1473.  Membrane  7d. 

Jan.  21.        Appointment  of  Thomas  Blanchard  to  take  workmen  called  *  bowyers ' 
Westminster,  and  '  flecchers '  and  other  workmen  for  the  works  of  the  king's  ordnance 
and  arrows,  '  bowestringes,'  '  langedebeves,'  lances,  '  gleyves,*  hammers  and 
other  necessaries.  By  K. 


Membrane  6d. 

Feb.  27.        Commission  to  John  Whitfeld,  mayor  of  Kyngeston  on  Hull,  Edmund 
Westminster.  Talbot,  esquire,  and  Nicholas  Leventhorpe  to  arrest  John  Boston  of  Hull, 
*  barbour,'  and  bring  him  before  the  king  and  council  in  the  quinzaine  of 
Easter  next. 


1472. 

July  12. 

Westminster. 


1473. 

Feb.  24. 

Westminster. 


Membrane  5d. 

kinsman  John,  earl 


Commission  to  the  king's  kinsman  John,  earl  Shrewsbury,  Ralph 
Worseley,  John  Acton,  esquire,  Robert  Spaldyng,  Edward  Skelton,  John 
Tlirilkeld  and  Geoffrey  Wharton,  Serjeants  at  arms,  and  the  sheriffs  of 
London,  Middlesex  and  Stafford  to  arrest  Thomas  Fyton,  knight,  and 
bring  him  before  the  king  and  council. 

Commission  to  J.  bishop  of  Rochester,  John  Dynhara  of  Dynham,  knight, 
Walter  Blounte  of  Mountjoye,  knight,  John  Morton,  keeper  of  the  rolls  of 
Chancery,  and  .John  Russell,  secondary  in  the  office  of  the  privy  seal,  to 
enquire  into  the  complaint  of  John  de  Elbys,  knight,  licentiate  in  civil  law, 
orator,  ambassador  and  proctor  or  advocate  fiscal  of  the  king's  kinsman 
Alfonso,  king  of  Portugal,  that  Thomas  the  Bastard  of  Fauconbrige  and 
divers  other  pirates  in  the  ninth  year  of  the  reign  have  plundered  divers 
ships  of  Portugal,  notwithstanding  the  alliance  between  the  king  and  his 
said  kmsman,  and  to  cause  restitution  to  be  made  and  to  arrest  the 
offenders  and  bring  them  before  the  king  and  council. 


380 


13  EDWARD  IV.— Part  I. 


1473.  Membrane  22. 

April  1.        Pardons  of  outlawry  to  the  following  : — 
Westminster.         Richard  Elmere  of  Whytstaple,  co.  Kent,  '  yoman,'  for  not  appearing 
before  the  justices  of  the  Bench  to  answer  William  Kyng  touching 
a  debt  of  40*.  he  having  surrendered  to  the  Flete  prison,  as  Tiiomas 
Bryan,  chief  justice  of  the  Bench,  has  cei'tified.  London. 

April  7.  John  Walsshe  late  of  Olveston,  co.  Gloucester,  esquire,  alias  late  of 

Westminster.  Bristol,  '  marchaunt,'  for  not  appearing  before  Robert  Danby  and 

his  fellows,  late  justices  of  the  Bench,  to  answer  Richard  Fluwet 
of  Pensford,  co.  Somerset,  '  touker,'  touching  a  debt  of  65*. 

Bristol. 

May  8.  John  Holyman  of  Dunstaple,  co.  Bedford,  chaplain,  for  not  appearing 

Westminster.  to  answer  a  plea  that  he  render  40*.  to  Robert  Baxter  and  Robert 

Savage,  administrators  of  the  goods  late  of  Henry  Baxter,  late  rector 
of  the  parish  church  of  St.  Ewin  within  Newgate,  London. 

Bedford. 

May  14.  Clement  Frode  of  Old  Romeney,  co.  Kent,  'laborer,'  for  not  appearing 

Westminster.  before   the   king    to    answer  Henry  Halle  touching   a  trespass 

committed  by  him  and  Hamo  Westwode,  *  husbondman,'  John 
Morton,  '  husbondman,'  John  Frode,  *  husbondman,'  Laurence 
Whatman,  '  husbondman,'  Gilbert  Frode,  '  laborer,'  and  Simon 
Frode,  *  laborer,'  all  of  Old  Romeney.  Kent. 

May  13.  John  Horsford  late  of  Crokehorn,  co.  Somerset, '  chapman,' for  not 

Westminster.  appearing  before  Robert  Danby  and  his  fellows,  late  justices  of  the 

Bench,  to  answer  John  Neve,  citizen  and  mercer  of  London,  and 
Thomas  Neve,  citizen  and  mercer  of  London,  touching  a  debt  of 
211.  12s.  \d.  London. 

May  19.  Thomas  Smyth  late  of    Ixnyng,  co.   Suffolk,   '  carpenter,'  for  not 

Westminster.  appearing  to  answer  Ralph  Ive  touching  a  debt  of  lOl.  Cambridge. 

May  20.  Thomas  Guatte  late  of  Whaddon,  co.  Wilts,  '  husbondman,'  for  not 

Westminster.  appearing  before  the  justices  of  the  Bench  to  answer  Thomas  More 

touching  a  debt  of  40*.  Somerset. 

May  21.  Robert  Holand  late  of  Hoggeston,  co.  Buckingham,  '  husbondman,'  for 

Westminster.  not  appearing  to  answer  John  Warde  touching  a  debt  of  10/. 

London. 


Membrane  21. 


May  5. 

Westminster. 


May  22. 
Westminster. 


May  25. 
WestminBter. 


Richard  Pendyne  late  of  Pendyue,  co.  Cornwall,  '  yoman,'  for  not 
appearing  before  Robert  Danby  and  his  fellows,  late  justices  of  the 
Bench,  to  answer  Thomas  Kenegy  touching  a  trespass.  Cornwall. 

William  Marham  of  Taklegh,  co.  Essex,  '  wever,'  for  not  appearing 
before  John  Prysot  and  his  fellows,  justices  of  the  Bench  of  the 
late  king,  to  answer  Margaret  Porte,  prioress  of  Ankerwyke,  co. 
Buckingham,  touching  a  debt  of  6/.  Middlesex. 

John  Norbury  late  of  Chevele,  co.  Cambridge,  *  husbondman,'  for  not 
appearing  before  the  justices  of  the  Bench  to  answer  Thomas 
Gocche  touching  a  debt  of  40*.  Suffolk. 


13  EDWARD  IV.— Part  I. 


381 


Membrane  21 — cont. 

John  Colt  late  of  Little  Muuden,  co.  Hertford,  the  younger,  '  maltman,' 
for  not  appearing  to  answer  Robert  Neuport  touching  a  debt  of  40s. 

Hertford. 

John  Hoggys  of  Plympton  Erll,  co.  Devon,  'yoman,'  alias  *  chapman,' 
for  not  appearing  before  Robert  Danby  and  his  fellows,  late  justices 
of  the  Bench,  to  answer  William  Rightwyse,  citizen  and  mercer  of 
London,  and  John  Bysshop  of  the  county  of  Northampton, 
'gentilman,'  touching  a  debt  of  40*.  London. 

Robert  Wynge  late  of  Pentryche,  co.  Derby,  '  yoman,'  for  not  appearing 
to  answer  a  plea  that  he  render  9/.  15s.  8J.  to  William  Tyler  of 
Snaynton  and  Agnes  his  wife,  executrix  of  the  will  of  William 
Padley  late  of  Lynby.  Nottingham. 

John  Escryk  of  Hornsebek,  co.  York,  *  yoman,'  for  not  appearing 
before  Thomas  Bryan  and  his  fellows,  justices  of  the  Bench,  to 
ansAver  Robert  Constable,  knight,  late  sheriff  of  Lincoln,  late  sheriff 
of  York,  touching  a  debt  of  10/.  York. 

Jolin  Borliam  late  of  London, '  fysshemonger,*  for  not  appearing  before 
Robert  Dauby  and  his  fellows,  late  justices  of  the  Bench,  to  answer 
a  plea  that  he  render  14/.  to  William  Felowe,  executor  of  the  will  of 
William  Gylle,  and  John  Ketill  and  Margaret  his  wife,  co-executrix 
of  the  said  will.  Oxford. 

Thomas  Stokes  of  Hungerford,  co.  Berks,  clerk,  for  not  appearing  to 
ansrt'er  William  Guntcr  touching  a  debt  of  4  marks.  Southampton. 

Thomas  Wotton  late  of  London,  'mercer,'  for  not  appearing  before 
the  justices  of  the  Bench  to  answer  Reginald  Lomener  touching  a 
debt  of  30/.  London. 

John  Guattc  late  of  Trowebrygge,  co.  Wills,  '  husbondman,'  for 
not  appearing  to  answer  Thomas  More  touching  a  debt  of  40s. 

Somerset. 

John  Mille  late  of  Stonehous,  co.  Gloucester,  clerk,  for  not  appearing 
before  Robert  Danby  and  his  I'ellows,  late  justices  of  the  Bench,  to 
answer  Elizabeth  Hasilden,  abbess  of  the  monastery  of  Eiuestowe, 
touching  debts  of  3G/.  10s.,  18/.  5s.  and  17/.  5s.  respectively  and 
William  Goldyngton  touching  a  debt  of  6/.  Bedford. 

John  Lamberd  late  of  Lincoln,  'hosteler,'  for  not  appearing  before  the 
justices  of  the  Bench  to  answer  William  Boweman  touching  a  debt 
of  40s.  London. 

William  Knyght  late  of  Westbury,  co.  Wilts,  '  wever,'  for  not 
appearing  before  Robert  Danby  and  his  fellows,  late  justices  of  the 
Bench,  when  sued  with  William  Beton  of  Immere,  co.  Wilts, 
'husbondman,'  John  Spender  of  Immere,  '  husbondman,'  and  Robert 
Derby  of  Immere,  '  husbondman,'  to  answer  Thomas  Seyntnmure, 
knight,  touching  a  trespass.  Somerset. 

Thomas  Edmonde,  citizen  and  fishmonger  of  London,  for  not  appearing 
to  answer  William  Claud,  cscjuire,  touching  a  debt  of  \oI.  William 
Gilbert,  burgess  and  merchant  of  Bishop's  Lenn,  and  William  Pylton, 
burgess  and  merchant  of  Bishop's  Lenn,  touching  a  debt  of  10/. 
Simon  Baxster  of  Bishop's  Lenn,  co.  Norfolk,  merchant,  touching  a 
debt  of  29/.  12s.  and  John  Dalle  touching  a  debt  of  6/. 

Kingston  on  Hull  and  Norfolk. 

Robert  Cole  of  Wytham,  co.  Essex,  'dyer,'  alias  Robert  Dyer  lale  of 
Witham,  for  not  appearing  to  answer  Ralph  Marche  touching  a  debt 
of  40/.  Essex. 


382 


CALENDAR  OF  PATENT  ROLLS. 


X473.  Membrane  21 — cont. 

Giles  Lakeford  late  of  Epyswych,  co.  Suffolk,  '  chapman,'  for  not 
appearing  before  the  justices  of  the  Bench  to  answer  George  Peke 
touching  a  debt  of  68s.  4c?.  London. 


3lEMBnANE  20. 


Oct.  16. 
Westminster. 


Oct.  16. 
Westminster. 


Oct.  18. 

Westminster. 

Oct.  13. 
Westminster. 


Nov.  18. 

Westminster. 

Nov.  8. 
Westminster. 


Oct.  16. 

Westminster. 


Nov.  22. 
Westminster. 

Nov.  6. 
Westminster, 

Nov.  24. 

Westminster. 

Nov.  27. 

Westminster. 


Robert  Thistelden  late  of  Stowemarket,  co.  Suffolk,  *  yoman,'  for  not 
appearing  before  John  Prysot  and  his  fellows,  justices  of  the  Bench 
of  the  late  king,  to  answer  John  Frense  of  Dekelburgh  touching  a 
debt  of  40s.  Norfolk. 

John  Atherton  alias  Athirton  of  Atherton,  co.  Lancaster,  esquire,  for 
not  appearing  before  Robert  Danby  and  his  fellows,  late  justices 
of  the  Bench,  when  sued  with  Roger  Bolton  late  of  Bolton,  co. 
Lancaster,  '  gentilman,'  Nicholas  Kilchith  late  of  Atherton,  chaplain, 
Ralph  Yns  late  of  Atherton,  *  gentilman,'  and  John  Bolton  late 
of  Atherton,  '  yoman,'  to  answer  Robert  Harecourt,  knight,  touching 
a  trespass,  and  for  not  appearing  to  answer  William,  abbot  of  the 
monastery  of  St.  Mary,  Mewes,  Christopher  Sharp,  esquire,  and 
William  Estfeld,  clerk,  touching  a  debt  of  100  marks. 

Oxford.  London. 

John  Keggyll  late  of  Bylston,  co.  Suffolk,  *  pewterer,'  for  not  appearing 
to  answer  Edmund  Wynter  of  Ipswich,  '  pewterer,'  touching  a  debt 
of  62s.  lOd.  Suffolk. 

Bartholomew  Radclyf,  dean  of  the  collegiate  church  of  Bishop 
Aukland,  co.  Durham,  for  not  appearing  to  answer  William,  abbot 
of  the  monastery  of  St.  Mary,  Mewes,  Christopher  Sharpe,  esquire, 
and  William  Estfeld,  clerk,  touching  a  debt  of  100  marks.  Loudon. 

Robert  Walker  of  York,  merchant,  for  not  appearing  before  the 
justices  of  the  Bench  to  answer  Guy  Fayrfax,  serjeant  at  law,  and 
Robert  Yarum  of  London,  mercer,  touching  a  debt  of  12/.  London. 

William  Nandyk  of  Scardeburgh,  co.  York,  *  chapman,'  for  not 
appearing  before  Robert  Danby  and  his  fellows,  late  justices  of  the 
Bench,  to  answer  William  Crowede,  citizen  and  '  peauterer '  of 
London,  and  William  Tod  of  York,  merchant,  touching  debts  of 
6  marks  20d.  and  40s.  respectively.  London.    City  of  York. 

John  Marston  alias  Merston  of  Chepyngwycombe,  co.  Buckingham, 
the  elder,  '  husbondman,'  for  not  appearing  to  answer  William 
Seuester  touching  a  debt  of  20/.  London. 

John  Ryley  late  of  Oxford,  '  skynner,'  for  not  appearing  to  answer 
John  Speny,  citizen  and  skinner  of  London,  touching  a  debt  of  40s. 

London. 

Hugh  Coke  of  Barowe,  co.  Lincoln,  '  husbondman,'  for  not  appearing 
to  answer  a  plea  that  he  render  20  quarters  of  barley  worth  6  marks 
to  John  Wodhous.  York. 

Thomas  Fraunceys  late  of  Caversham,  co.  Oxford,  '  taillour,'  for  not 
appearing  to  answer  John  Vyncent  touching  a  trespass.  Berks. 

William  Davy  late  of  Wyghthille  in  the  parish  of  Tackeley,  co.  Oxford, 
'  yoman,'  alias  '  husbondman,'  for  not  appearing  before  the  said 
justices  to  answer  Thomas  Wilcotes  of  Deene,  co.  Oxford,  esquire, 
touching  a  debt  of  20  marks  and  before  Thomas  Bryan  and  his 
fellows,  justices  of  the  Bench,  to  answer  John  Howard,  knight, 
late  sheriff  of  Oxford,  touching  a  debt  of  100s.        Surrey.  Berks. 


13  EDWARD  IV.— Part  I. 


888 


1473.  Membrane  20 — cont. 

Nov.  27.  John  Bylley  of  Shipton  on  Charwell,  co.  Oxford,  '  husbondman,'  for 

Westminster.  not  appearing  before  the  justices  of  the  Bench  to  answer  John 

Howard,  knight,  late  sheriS'  of  Oxford,  touching  a  debt  of  IOO5. 

Berks. 

Ealph  Wolseley  late  of  London,  esquire,  late  one  of  the  barons  of  the 
Exchequer,  alias  Ralph  Wolceley,  '  gentihnan,'  for  not  appearing 
to  answer  John  Davy  son,  clerk,  late  keeper  of  the  hanaper,  touching 
a  debt  of  9Z.  9*.  4rf.  and  to  answer  a  plea  that  he  render  J 4/.  6s.  %d. 
to  John  Bernewell  and  William  Chamberleyn,  executors  of  the  will 
of  Henry  Jordan,  citizen  and  fishmonger  of  London.  Middlesex. 

Nov.  27.  Henry  Inglot  of  Broklond,  co.  Kent,  'husbondman,'  for  not  appearing 

.  Westminster.  before  Robert  Danby  and  his  fellows,  late  justices  of  the  Bench,  to 

answer  James  Godard  touching  a  trespass  committed  by  )iim  and 
Simon  Admond  of  Broklond,  '  laborer,'  and  John  Hever  of  Broklond, 
the  eld«r,  '  husbondman.'  Kent. 

Nov.  29.  Stephen  Debenham  of  Hoxen,  co.  Suffolk,  'yoman,'  for  not  appearing 

Westminster.  to  answer  Walter  Lyhert,  bishop  of  Norwich,  touching  a  debt  of 

4  marks.  Middlesex. 

Nov.  27.  Agnes  late  the  wife  of  William  Hewet  late  of  Dertford,  co.  Kent, 

Westminster.  '  husbondman,'  for  not  appearing  before  the  justices  of  the  Bench 

to  answer  John  Underwode  touching  a  trespass.  Kent. 

Nov.  29.  John  Tyler  late  of  Frethenden,  co.  Kent,  '  parysshe  clerk,'  for  not 

WestminstM.  appearing  to  answer  John  Gryffyth,  citizen   and   '  chapemaker ' 

of  London,  touching  a  debt  of  40/.  Kent. 

1474. 

Feb.  12.  John  Farnham  late  of  Querndon  alias  Quarendon,  co.  Leicester, 

Westminster.  '  gentylman,' o/?«5  esquire,  for  not  appearing  before  Robert  Danby 

and  his  fellows,  late  justices  of  the  Bench,  to  answer  Richard  Isam, 
John  Lambard,  citizen  and  mercer  of  London,  and  William  Harecourt, 
knight,  late  sheriff  of  Warwick,  touching  debts  of  IOO.9.,  10/.  and 
4tV.  respectively.  London. 
Thomas  Blakbourne  late  of  London,  '  yoman,'  alias  '  halywaterclerk,' 
for  not  appearing  before  the  justices  of  the  Bench  to  answer  John 
Dryland,  citizen  and  draper  of  London,  touching  a  debt  of  4/. 

London. 


Membrane  19. 


Jan.  26. 

Westminster. 

Jan.  20. 
Westminster. 


1473. 

Nov.  27. 

Westminster. 

1474. 

Jan.  24. 
Westminst«r. 


Nicholas  Morton  late  of  Lytelmorton,  co.  Cornwall,  *  gcntilman,'  for 
not  appearing  to  answer  John  Wynell  touching  a  debt  of  40s. 

Devon. 

John  Norton  late  of  London,  *  taillour,' for  not  appearing  before  the 
king  to  answer  for  divers  trespasses  he  having  surrendered  to  the 
Marshalsea  prison,  as  Thomas  Billyng,  chief  justice  of  the  King's 
Bench,  has  certified.  Middlesex. 

Walter  Goodwyn  late  of  Southcreyke,  co.  Norfolk,  'yoman,' for  not 
appearing  before  the  justices  of  the  Bench  to  answer  John  AUard  of 
Southcreyk  touching  a  debt  of  40*.  Norfolk. 

Thomas  Byggynges  late  of  Wyndandymcr,  co.  Westmoreland,  clerk, 
for  not  appearing  to  answer  Robert  Burgh  late  of  Westhouses 
touching  a  debt  of  20/.  York. 


384 


CALENDAR  OP  PATENT  ROLLS. 


1474. 

Jau.  30. 
Westminster. 


Jan.  27. 

Westminster. 

Feb.  4. 
VV  estminster, 

Jan.  24. 
Westminster. 


1473. 
Nov.  17. 

Westminster. 

1474. 

Feb.  3. 

Westminster. 

Feb.  4. 
Westminster. 

Jan.  20. 
Westminster. 


Feb.  8. 
Westminster. 


Feb.  7. 

Westminster. 


Jan.  25. 
Westminster. 

Feb.  11. 
Westminster. 

Feb.  12. 
Westminster. 


Memhi'ane  19 — cont. 

John  Graungei'  of  Snarston,  co.  Leicester,  '  hiisbondman,'  for  not 
appearing  before  John  Prysot  and  his  fellows,  justices  of  the  Bench 
of"  the  late  king,  to  answer  Thomas  Burdet,  esquire,  touching  a 
trespass.  Warwick. 

William  Wylkes  of  Hye  Sv/yndon,  co.  Wilts,  '  Imsbondman,'  for  not 
appearing  before  the  justices  of  the  Bench  to  answer  Richard  Draper 
touching  a  debt  of  20/.  Berks. 

John  Hosyer  of  Oundell,  co.  Northampton,  '  bocher,'  for  not  appearing 
to  answer  .John  Castell  touching  a  debt  of  20/.  Northampton. 

John  Rede  of  Becclys,  co.  Suffolk,  'yoman,'  aliax  John  Reile  the 
elder,  '  marchaunt,'  for  not  appearing  before  Robert  Danby  and  his 
fellows,  late  justices  of  the  Bench,  to  answer  William  Norwich, 
citizen  and  alderman  of  Norwich,  and  William  Ilkston,  citizen  and 
'  haberdassher  '  of  London,  touching  debts  of  6/.  and  44s.  I'espectively. 

London  and  Norwich. 

John  Reede  late  of  the  city  of  Lincoln,  *  marchaunt,'  for  not  appearing 
before  the  justices  of  the  Bench  to  answer  John  Shelley,  citizen  and 
mercer  of  London,  touching  a  debt  of  7/.  19*.  5\d.  London. 


for  not  appearing 
Devon. 


Henry  Davy  late  of  Tpplcpenne,  co.  Devon,  '  smyth 
to  answer  Richard  Glamvyle  touching  a  trespass. 

Robert  Starke  late  of  Lychefeld,  co.  Stafford,  '  yoman,'  for  not 
appearing  to  answer  William  Haydok  touching  a  debt  of  40s. 

London. 

William  Palfreyman  late  of  Multon  in  Holand,  co.  Lincoln, 
'  husbondman,'  for  not  appearing  before  the  king  when  sued  witli 
John  Cawod  late  of  Quaplode,  co.  Lincoln,  '  yoman,'  and  Thomas 
Wryght  late  of  Quaplode,  '  husbondman,'  to  answer  John  Mason 
touching  a  trespass.  Hertford. 

Thomas  Eton,  chaplain  and  vicar  of  Wyrkesworth,  co.  Derby,  for  not 
appearing  before  Robert  Daynby  and  his  fellows,  late  justices  of  the 
Bench,  to  answer  Robert  Flemmyng,  dean  of  the  cathedral  church 
of  St.  Mary,  Lincoln,  touching  a  debt  of  100  marks.  Middlesex. 

Alexander  Foulescroft  of  Westhouses  in  the  parish  of  Thornton, 
CO.  York,  'yoman,'  for  not  appearing  before  the  justices  of  the 
Bench  to  answer  Robert  Burgh  late  of  Westhousea  touching  a  debt 
of  20/.  York. 

John  Daly  late  of  Retherfeld,  co.  Sussex,  *  husbondman,'  for  not 
appearing  to  answer  Richard  Everley,  citizen  and  mercer  of  London, 
touching  a  debt  of  10/.  Sussex. 

Thomas  Surgeon  late  of  Great  Brykhyll,  co.  Buckingham,  '  yoman,'  for 
not  appearing  to  answer  William  Marchall,  citizen  and  '  haburdassher ' 
of  London,  touching  a  debt  of  5  marks.  London. 

Gilbert  Debenham  late  of  Little  Wenliam,  co.  Suffolk,  knight,  for  not 
appearing  to  answer  William  Wodward,  citizen  and  goldsmith  of 
London,  touching  two  debts  of  29/.  16s.  3c?.  and  William  Bentele, 
citizen  and  grocer  of  London,  touching  a  debt  of  21/.  London. 


1473.  Membrane  18. 

Oct.  12.  Peter  Herfrey  late  of  Thrandeston,  co.  SuflTolk,  'gentilman,'  for  not 

Westminster.  appearing  to  answer  a  plea  that  he  render  6/.  10s.  to  Margaret  late 


13  EDWARD  IV.— Part  I. 


385 


Membrane  IS — cont. 

the  wife  of  John  Odeham  late  of  Bury  St.  Edmunds,  *  draper,'  and 
executrix  of  his  will.  London. 

Thomas  Andrews  of  Sejntkateryns  by  the  Tower  of  London, 
CO.  Middlesex,  '  wodmonger,'  for  not  appearing  to  answer  Thomas 
Niche,  citizen  and  mercer  of  London,  touching  a  debt  of  20  marks. 

London. 

Robert  Barlowe  of  Warrewyk,  'yoman,'  for  not  appearing  before 
Robert  Danby  and  his  fellows,  late  justices  of  the  Bench,  to  answer 
a  plea  that  he  render  chattels  to  the  value  of  405.  to  Richard 
Byngham,  esquire.  Nottingham. 

James  Wilkynson  late  of  Monkebretfon,  co.  York,  'smyth,'  for  not 
appearing  before  the  justices  of  the  Bench  to  answer  Richard,  prior 
of  the  monastery  of  St.  Mary  Magdalen,  Monkebretton,  touching  a 
trespass.  York. 

John  Holewey  late  of  Fremyngliam,  co.  Kent,  '  husbondman,'  for  not 
appearing  to  answer  a  plea  that  he  render  40s.  to  Joan  late  the  wife 
of  Bartholomew  Pettam  alius  Petham,  late  citizen  and  '  haber- 
dasshcr  '  of  London,  and  George  Style,  '  geutilman,'  executors  of  the 
will  of  the  said  Bartholomew.  Middlesex. 

John  Pope  of  Skouryston,  co.  Norfolk,  the  younger,  '  laborer,'  for  not 
appearing  before  John  Prysot  and  his  fellows,  justices  of  the  Bench 
of  the  late  king,  to  answer  Robert  Upton  touching  a  debt  of  5  marks. 

Norfolk. 

Thomas  Jakys  of  Warwyk,  *  yoman,'  for  not  afjpearing  before  the 
justices  of  the  Bench  to  answer  AVilliam  Parker,  citizen  and  tailor  of 
London,  touching  a  debt  of  40s.  London. 

John  Cresbien  of  Stour  VVestovere,  co.  Dorset,  *  fraukeleyn,'  for  not 
appearing  before  Robeit  Danby  and  his  fellows,  late  justices  of 
the  Bench,  to  answer  Geoffrey  Feldyng,  '  mercer,'  and  Eihnund 
Redeknape,  '  mercer,'  touching  a  debt  of  140/.  Middlesex. 

John  Rouley  late  of  Andever,  co.  Southampton,  *  gentilnian,'  for  not 
appearing  before  the  justices  of  the  Bench  to  answer  Richard 
Levermore  touching  a  debt  of  40*.  Middlesex. 

John  Lyndall  late  of  Roxby,  co.  Lincoln,  *  husbondman,'  for  not 
appearing  before  Robert  Danby  and  his  fellows,  late  justices  of  the 
Bench,  to  answer  John,  abbot  of  Roche,  touching  a  debt  of  100*. 

York. 

Robert  T'urpyn  late  of  Walesby,  co.  Lincoln,  chaplain,  for  not  appearing 
before  the  king  when  sued  with  John  llokcson  late  of  London, 
'yoman,'  to  answer  Thomas  Goodhand  touching  a  trespass. 

London. 

Agnes  Constable  late  of  Kyngoston  on  Thames,  co.  Surrey,  '  wydowe,' 
executrix  of  the  will  of  Robert  Constable  lato  of  Kyngeston  on 
Thames,  for  not  appearing  before  the  justices  of  the  Bench  to  answer 
John  Smyth  of  Little  Stanmere,  co.  Middlesex,  touching  a  debt  of 
9/.  Gs.  Hd.  Middlesex. 

Thomas  Hylton,  vicar  of  the  parish  church  of  Aslakby,  co.  Lincoln, 
alias  Thomas  Hilton  late  of  Repynghale,  co.  Lincoln,  for  not 
ajjpearing  to  answer  John  Norys  of  London,  '  skynuer,'  touching  a 
debt  of  AOs.  and  John  Mey,  clerk,  Richard  Raulyn  and  Thomas 
Gelot,  wardens  of  the  goods  of  the  parish  church  of  Depford, 
touching  a  trespass.  Kent  and  Middlesex. 

B  B 


386 


CALENDAR  OF  PATENT  ROLLS. 


1473. 

Oct.  26. 

Westminster. 


Oct.  27. 

Westminster. 


Nov.  3. 

Westminster. 


Oct.  30. 

Westminster. 

Nov.  5. 

Westminster. 

Nov.  9. 

Westminster. 


Nov.  10. 

Westminster. 


Nov.  9. 
Westminster. 


Nov.  10. 

Westminster. 


Nov.  10. 

Westminster. 


Nov.  12. 
Westminster. 

Nov.  11. 
Westminster. 


Membrane  18 — cont. 
Richard  Londe  of  Stepyll  Bonisted,  co.  Essex,  '  husbondman,'  for  not 
appearing  before  John  Prisot  and  bis  fellows,  justices  of  the  Bench 
of  the  late  king,  to  answer  Edmund,  abbot  of  Westminster,  touching 
a  debt  of  40/.  Middlesex. 

John  Mowene  of  Nanskylly  by  Roswaltres,  co.  Cornwall,  '  husbondman,' 
for  not  appearing  before  the  justices  of  the  Bench  to  answer  Ralph 
Colan  touching  a  trespass.  Cornwall. 

Henry  Chese  late  of  Toucestre,  co.  Northampton,  'dyer,'  for  not 
appearing  to  answer  John  Bryggys,  citizen  and  draper  of  London, 
touching  a  debt  of  lOSs.  2d.  London. 

Thomas  Borne  late  of  Leycestre,  '  chapman,'  for  not  appearing  to 
answer  a  plea  that  he  render  1\s.  8d.  to  William  Hyndeley  and  Joan 
his  wife,  late  the  wife  of  William  Ilkston,  late  '  haburdassher,'  and 
executrix  of  liis  Avill.  London. 

John  Pagot  late  of  Wadesworth,  co.  Cornwall,  '  yoman,'  and  Margaret 
his  wife,  executrix  of  the  will  of  John  Porter  late  of  Wadesworth, 
'  husbondman,'  for  not  appearing  before  Robert  Danby  and  his 
fellows,  late  justices  of  the  Bench,  to  answer  a  plea  that  they  I'ender 
11/.  to  John  Haukyns,  citizen  and  tailor  of  London.  London. 

Damian  de  la  Puse  of  Southampton,  '  marchant,'  for  not  appearing 
before  the  justices  of  the  Bench  to  answer  William  Pere  touciiing  a 
debt  of  40s.  Coventry. 

William  Hill  of  Bradford,  co.  York, '  chapman,'  for  not  appearing  to 
answer  John  Taillour  of  Wombewell  touching  a  debt  of  8/.  10s. 

York. 

John  Breuster  alias  Brewster  late  of  Haselore,  co.  Warwick,  '  gentil- 
man,'  for  not  appearing  before  Robert  Danby  and  his  fellows, 
justices  of  the  Bench,  to  answer  William  Breuster  alias  Brewster, 
clerk,  touching  a  debt  of  24/.  London. 

Henry  Burdon  late  of  Rothewell,  co.  Northampton,  '  bocher,'  for  not 
appearing  before  the  j  ustices  of  the  Bench  to  answer  John,  abbot  of 
the  monastery  of  St.  Mary,  Cirencestre,  touching  a  debt  of  29/. 

Northampton. 

Henry  Ottewey  of  Aloweston,  co.  Gloucester,  '  yoman,'  for  not 
appearing  before  Thomas  Bryan  and  his  fellows,  justices  of  the 
Bench,  to  answer  Maurice  Denis,  esquire,  for  having  entered  his 
park  at  Aloweston,  hunted  therein  and  carried  off  deer.  Gloucester. 

Henry  Thomas,  parson  of  the  church  of  Cryxethe,  co.  Essex,  alias 
late  of  Hakeney,  co.  Middlesex,  chaplain,  for  not  appearing  before 
Robert  Danby  and  his  fellows,  late  justices  of  the  Bench,  to  answer 
William  Legge  and  Thomas  Toweneley  alias  Tunley  late  of 
Hakeney,  clerk,  touching  debts  of  10  marks  and  40*.  respectively. 

Middlesex, 

William  Gilson  late  of  Wytlesford,  co.  Cambridge,  husbondman,'  for 
not  appearing  before  the  justices  of  the  Bench  to  answer  John 
Southwell,  dean  of  the  church  of  St.  Mary,  Warwick,  touching  a 
debt  of  10/.  18*.  id.  Warwick. 

Richard  More  late  of  Carlisle,  co.  Cumberland,  the  elder,  '  marchaunt,' 
for  not  appearing  to  answer  Thomas  Gay  the  elder,  citizen  and  tailor 
of  Loudon,  touching  a  debt  of  24/.  London. 

Christopher  Hyde  late  of  Arnall,  co.  Nottingham,  '  yoman,'  for  not 
appearing  to  answer  Walter  Blount,  knight,  touching  a  debt  of  10/. 

Middlesex. 


13  EDWARD  IV.— Part  I. 


387 


1473.  Membrane  18 — cont. 

Nov.  11.  Thomas  Pecke  of  Shefford,  co.  Bedford,  '  schapman,'  for  not  appearing 

Westminster.  before  Robert  Danby  and  his  fellows,  late  justices  of  the  P>ench,  to 

answer  Hugh  Wyche,  citizen  and  mercer  of  London,  touching  a 
debt  of  1 10s.  Middlesex. 

Robert  Byworth  of  Raundes,  co.  Northampton,  *  husbondman,'  for  not 
appearing  when  sued  with  Henry  Sprete  of  Raundes,  '  husbondman,' 
to  answer  William  Drewell  touching  a  trespass.  Northampton. 

Nov.  16.  Thomas  Warley  of  Netherheyford,  co.  Northampton,  *  husbondman,' 

Westminster.  for  not  appearing  to  answer  Simon  Mounceaux  touching  a  debt  of  4/. 

Northampton. 


Membrane  17. 


March  10. 
Westminster. 


March  16. 
Westminster. 


March  19. 
Westminster. 


March  27. 
Westminster. 


March  29. 
Westminster. 

March  31. 
Westminster. 


April  1. 
Westminster. 


April  5. 
Westminster, 


Pardon  to  William,  the  prior,  and  the  convent  of  Christ  Church, 
Canterbury,  of  all  offences  committed  by  them  against  the  statutes  of 
liveries  of  cloths  and  caps  and  all  alienations  and  perquisitions  in  mortmain 
by  them  of  lands  without  licence  before  8  March.  By  p.s. 

Licence,  for  6s.  8cf.  paid  in  the  hanaper,  for  John  Elmham  of  Norwich 
to  grant  all  lands,  rents  and  services  with  homages,  fealties,  wards, 
marriages,  reliefs,  escheats,  suits  of  court,  warrens,  stews,  rivers,  meadows, 
feedings,  ways,  paths  and  the  liberty  of  one  fold  and  all  profits  in  Caaston, 
Brandeston,  Swenyngton,  Ingworth  and  Hevyngham  or  elsewhere  in  the 
hundred  of  South  Erpyngham,  held  in  chief,  which  he  lately  held  with 
John  Asshefeld  of  Bursliamwelle  the  younger  of  the  demise  of  John 
Grymesby,  clerk,  to  Philip  Curson,  'draper'  and  citizen  of  Norwich, 
Thomas  Curson  his  son,  Roger  Bresyngham,  clerk,  William  Jeimey,  learne<l 
in  the  law,  Henry  Heydon,  John  Russe,  Edmund  Jenncy,  Henry  Wilton, 
Thomas  Jenney,  Robert  Aylemer,  William  Davy  and  John  Furbusshour 
and  their  heirs  and  assigns. 

Grant  for  one  year  from  Easter  next  to  the  merchants  of  the  city  of 
Cologne  in  Almain,  who  have  and  in  times  past  among  other  merchants  of 
Almain  have  had  the  house  in  the  city  of  London  called  Guildehalla 
Theutonicorum,  that  throughout  the  realm  of  England  and  other  places 
subject  to  the  king  they  shall  enjoy  their  ancient  privileges  and  they  and 
their  factors,  attorneys  and  servants  shall  be  quit  of  subsidies,  saving  to  the 
king  his  ancient  rights  and  customs.  By  p.s. 

Pardon  to  William  Pestell,  esquire,  late  escheator  in  the  counties  of 
Norfolk  and  Suffolk,  of  all  offences  committed  by  him  and  all  fines,  amerce- 
ments, issues,  debts,  accounts  and  arrears  due  from  him  to  the  king  before 
16  March.  By  p.s. 

General  pardon  to  John  W(!nt  late  of  London,  '  draper,'  alias  late  of 
Aylesham,  CO.  Norfolk,  '  yoman,' of  all  offences  committed  by  him  before 
23  March.  By  p.s. 

Signification  to  .1 .  bishop  of  Coventry  and  Lichfield  of  the  royal  assent  to 
the  election  of  Thomas  Feld  as  abbot  of  the  monastery  of  SS.  Mary  and 
Modwenna,  Burton  on  Trent,  of  the  order  of  St.  Benedict.  By  i).s. 

Pardon  to  John  Howard,  knight,  lord  of  Howard,  late  of  Stoke  by 
Nelond,  co.  Sufiolk,  treasurer  of  the  household,  of  all  offences  committed  by 
him  and  all  fines,  amercements,  issues,  debts,  accounts  and  arrears  due  from 
him  to  the  king.  By  p.s. 

Licence  for  the  prior  and  convent  of  the  monastery  of  St.  Saviour,  Ber- 
mondsey,  of  the  Cluniac  order,  to  elect  an  abbot  in  the  place  of  Dan  John 
Say  alias  Bromley,  resigned.  By  p.s. 

B  B  2 


388 


CALENDAR  OF  PATENT  ROLLS. 


1473. 

April  9. 


Membrane  17 — cont. 


Signification  to  TIi.  cardinal  archbishop  of  Canterbury  of  the  royal  assent 
Westminster,  to  the  election  of  Dan  John  Marlow  as  abbot  of  the  monastery  of 
St.  Saviour,  Bermondsey,  of  the  Cluniac  order,  in  the  diocese  of  Winchester. 

By  p.s. 

Licence  for  the  prioress  and  convent  of  the  monastery  of  Berkyng,  in  the 
diocese  of  London,  to  elect  an  abbess  in  the  place  of  Katharine  de  la  PooUe, 
last  abbess,  deceased.  By  p.s. 

Signification  to  Th.  bishop  of  London  of  the  royal  assent  to  the  election 
of  Dame  Elizabeth  Laxham,  nun  of  the  monastery  of  Berkyng,  as  abbess  of 
the  same.  By  K. 


April  10. 
Westminster. 


April  14. 
Westminster. 


Membrane  16. 

April  13.  Whereas  in  repayment  of  the  sum  of  1,720/.  3s.  Ad.  and  two  parts  of  a 
Westminster,  farthing  due  to  Walter  Blount,  knight,  lord  Mountjoye,  the  king  on 
10  August,  9  Edward  IV,  by  letters  patent  granted  to  him  400/,  yearly 
until  he  should  be  fully  satisfied,  and  the  said  Walter  has  thus  received  the 
sum  of  450/.  and  the  letters  are  now  void  by  virtue  of  an  act  for  the  mayor 
and  society  of  the  merchants  of  the  staple  of  Calais  in  the  Parliament  at 
Westminster  prorogued  on  6  October  last  until  8  February  ;  the  king 
now,  in  repayment  of  the  residue  of  1,270/.  3s.  4J.  and  two  parts  of  a 
farthing,  grants  that  he  or  his  executors  or  administrators  after  his  decease 
in  each  of  the  next  four  years  shall  receive  the  sum  of  317/.  10s.  lOd.  from 
the  first  moneys  arising  from  the  customs  and  subsidies  of  wools  and  wool- 
fells  and  fells  called  '  morling  '  and  '  shorling  '  shipped  by  the  said  mayor 
and  society  for  16  years  from  6  April  last  from  England  to  Calais  over  and 
above  10,022/.  4*.  8c?.  yearly  for  the  payment  of  the  wages  of  the  captain, 
iieutenants  and  soldiers  of  the  town  and  castle  of  Calais,  the  tower  of  Rise- 
bank,  the  castles  of  Guynes  and  Hammes  and  the  marches  of  Calais,  100/. 
yearly  for  the  payment  of  the  fees  of  the  customer  and  controller  of  the 
great  custom  and  subsidy  of  wools  and  wool-fells  in  the  port  of  London,  all 
sums  for  the  conduct  of  the  said  merchandise  shipped  to  Calais  beyond  the 
sum  of  3,766/.  13s.  4f/.  in  the  first  of  the  said  16  years,  viz.  1,500/  to  be 
paid  to  the  said  mayor  and  society  in  part  payment  of  21,000/.  and  1,000 
marks  from  the  said  3,766/.  13s.  4c?.  to  be  paid  to  the  king's  justices, 
Serjeants  at  law  and  attorneys  in  part  jjayment  of  their  fees,  and  all  other 
charges  specified  in  the  said  act.  By  p.s. 

April  23.       Presentation  of  Richard  Thomas,  chaplain,  to  one  of  the  chantries  in  the 
Westminster,  low  chapel  under  le  Croft  in  Christ  Church,  Canterbury,  founded  for  the 
soul  of  Edward,  late  prince  of  Wales,  void  by  the  death  of  Robert  WefE 
alius  Walpole,  last  chaplain. 

April  13.       Appointment,  until  13  October,  of  Richard  Exton,  yeoman  of  the  office 
Westminster,  of  buyer  of  the  household,  to  take  oxen,  muttons,  calves,  pigs,  salt  and 
fresh  water  fish  and  other  necessaries  pertaining  to  his  office. 

By  bill  of  the  steward  of  the  household. 

May  7.  General  pardon  to  Henry  Hamines  the  younger  late  of  London, 
Westminster.   '  gentilman,'  alias  late  of  Branfeld,  co.  Hertford,  alias  late  of  Mileend,  co. 

Middlesex,  alias  late  of  Goseys  in  the  parish  of  Hornchirch,  co.  Essex,  of 
all  offences  committed  by  him  before  11  January  last.  By  p.s. 

May  20.  Grant  for  threo  years  to  the  prior  and  convent  of  Dunstable  for  the 
Westminster,  celebration  of  masses  of  two  tuns  of  red  wine  yearly  at  Easter  in  the  port  of 
London  at  the  hands  of  the  chief  butler  or  his  lieutenant  there.        By  p.s. 

June  6.  General  pardon  to  Miles  ap  Herry  of  the  county  of  Hereford,  '  gentilman,' 
Westminster,  of  all  offences  committed  by  him  before  3  June,  12  Edward  IV.       By  p.s. 


13  EDWAKD  IV.— Part  I. 


389 


1473.  Membrane  16 — cont. 

May  8.         Grant  for  life  to  the  king's  servant  Thomas  Bestney,  clerk  of  the  eatery 
Westminster,  of  the,  household,  of  the  custody  of  the  king's  houses  in  the  manor  of 
Eltha  ,  CO.  Kent,  with  the  accustomed  fees  as  in  the  times  of  Edward  III. 
and  Ruhard  II.  from  the  issues  of  the  king's  lordship  or  manor  of  Eltham 
from  20  June,  11  Edward  IV.  By  p.s. 


June  19. 
Coventry. 


July  3. 
Westminster. 


July  6. 
Westminster. 


1474. 

Feb.  4. 
Westminster. 


Membrane  15. 

Whereas  in  repayment  of  certain  debts  the  king  lately  assigned  to  William 
Purchas  2251.  by  a  tally  levied  at  the  receipt  of  the  Exchequer  on 
21  October,  8  Edward  IV.  on  the  collectors  of  the  first  moiety  of  the  .second 
of  two  fifteenths  and  tenths  granted  to  the  king  in  that  year  by  the  laity  in 
the  county  of  Norfolk,  and  the  said  William  delivered  certain  cloths  of 
arras  of  the  value  of  240/.  to  Robert  Cousin  for  the  king's  use,  but  he  has 
received  no  payment  of  the  above  and  has  surrendered  the  said  tally ;  the 
king  hereby  in  recompense  of  the  whole  amount  of  465/.  grants  that  he  or 
his  executors  or  administrators  after  his  decease  or  their  factors  or  attorneys 
may  ship  mercliandise  not  of  the  staple  in  the  ports  of  London  and 
Suthamptou  and  take  the  same  to  foreign  parts  and  bring  back  other 
merchandise  to  the  said  ports  quit  of  customs  and  subsidies  to  the  sum  of 
120/.  in  each  of  the  next  three  years  and  105/.  in  the  fourth  year,  or  in  lieu 
of  part  of  these  sums  may  ship  wools,  wool-fells  and  woollen  cloths  in  the 
said  ports  and  take  them  to  foreign  parts  by  the  straits  of  Marrok  (juit  of 
customs  and  subsidies  at  the  rate  of  4  marks  on  each  sack  or  every  240 
wool-fells  to  tlie  sum  of  60/.  in  each  of  the  next  three  years  and  52/.  10s.  in 
the  fourth  year.  By  K. 

Pardon  to  Richard  Calyngewode  of  Caldwell,  co.  Derby,  *  yoman,'  of  his 
outlawry  in  the  county  of  Leicester  for  not  appearing  before  Robert  Daiiby 
and  his  fellows,  late  justices  of  the  Bench,  to  satisfy  Robert  Johnson  and 
Agnes  his  wife  of  15  marks  which  they  recovered  against  him  and  20.?. 
damages,  he  having  surrendered  to  the  Flete  prison  and  satisfied  them,  as 
Thomas  Bryan,  chief  justice  of  the  Bench,  has  certified. 

Licence,  for  10  marks  paid  in  the  hanaper,  for  Alexander  Clyfford, 
esquire,  to  grant  the  manor  of  Sutton  Valance,  co.  Kent,  held  in  chief,  with 
the  exccjjtion  of  one  acre  of  land  in  the  same  called  '  Chartchirchecroft,'  to 
William  Haute,  knight,  ilSlieholas  Gaynesford,  esquire,  John  Gaynesford, 
esquire,  William  Crowemcr  the  younger,  esquire,  John  Roper,  esquire,  Robert 
Martyn,  esquire,  Roger  Brent,  William  Brent,  John  Netliirsole,  John  Hert, 
Thomas  Wade  and  Stephen  Feltwell  and  their  heirs  and  assigns. 

Grant  for  life  to  the  king's  servant  John  Baret,  clerk  of  the  king's 
kitchen,  of  the  constableship  or  ollicc  of  constable  of  the  king's  castle  of 
Salesbury,  co.  Wilts,  and  the  custody  of  the  castle,  to  hold  from  3  December, 
11  Edward  IV,  from  which  day  he  has  occupied  the  same,  receiving  the 
accustomed  fees  from  the  issues  of  the  county  of  Wilts  with  all  other 
profits  ;  in  lieu  of  a  grant  to  Richard  Ilaynes,  esquire,  by  letters  patent 
dated  29  March,  6  Edward  IV.  surrendered.  By  K. 


1473.  Membrane  14. 

March  18.  Whereas  Stephen  Bodulgate,  esquire,  was  seised  in  his  demesne  as  of  fee 
Westminster,  of  the  manors  of  Trencruke,  Trecorme,  Oldlond,  Hamct,  Lamelyn,  Helland, 
Crawan,  Bodulgat,  Deliowboll,  Trevarliche,  Tremayn  and  Dorset  and  other 
lands,  rents,  services  and  possessions  in  the  county  of  Cornwall  and 
enfeoffed  John  Warde,  clerk,  and  Richard  Talvargh  with  others  now  deceased 
of  the  same  to  the  use  of  himself  and  his  heirs  to  fulfil  his  will  and  had 


390 


CALENDAR  OF  PATENT  ROLLS. 


1473.  Membrane  14 — cont. 

issue  Thomas  Bodulgate,  esquire,  and  died  and  afterwards  the  said  Thomas 
died,  and  the  said  John  and  Richard  are  still  seised  of  the  premises  and  the 
will  of  the  said  Stephen  is  still  unfulfilled  but  certain  oflBcers  and  ministers 
of  the  king  by  colour  of  certain  supposed  offences  of  the  said  Thomas  have 
claimed  an  interest  in  the  premises  for  the  king,  the  king  nevertheless 
releases  all  claim  to  the  same  to  the  said  John  and  Richard  and  Joan 
Coryngton  and  Isabel  Rescarrek,  sisters  and  heiresses  of  the  said  Thomas, 
and  their  heirs,  and  moreover  grants  that  the  said  Thomas  shall  not  be 
impeached  in  any  Parliament  or  elsewhere.  By  p.s. 

May  16.        Appointment  of  John,  lord  le  Scrope,  as  surveyor  of  the  repair  and  re- 
Westminster,  building  of  divers  houses  and  buildings  within  the  king's  town  and  lordship 
of  Gretton,  CO.  Northampton,  which  have  been  burnt,  and  grant  to  him  for 
life  for  the  said  re-building  and  repair  and   in   consideration  of  his 
services  of  a  yearly  rent  of  251.  from  the  issues  of  the  said  lordship. 

By  p.s. 

May  13.  Grant  during  minority  to  John  Deveroux,  knight,  of  the  custody  of  all 
Westminster.  lordships,  manors,  lands,  services  and  other  possessions  with  knights'  fees 
and  advowsons  late  of  Thomas  Milewater  of  the  county  of  Hereford,  esquire, 
tenant  in  chief  by  knight  service,  and  in  the  king's  hands  by  reason  of  the 
minority  of  Eleanor  his  daughter  and  heiress,  and  the  custody  and  marriage 
of  the  latter  without  disparagement.  By  p.s. 

May  28.        General  pardon  to  Thomas  Blaklawe,  chaplain  of  the  chantry  of  St.  Mary 
Westminster,  Virgin  in  the  parish  church  of  Thornton,  co.  Buckingham,  ordained  for  the 
souls   of  John  Barton  the   younger  and  Isabel  his  wife,  of  all  offences 
committed   by  him   and  all  alienations  and  perquisitions  in  mortmain 
by  him  without  licence  of  lands  held  in  chief  before  14  April  last. 

By  p.s. 

May  20.  Grant  to  Ralph  Gamage,  esquire,  and  Thomas  Cokkys  of  the  custody  of 
Westminster,  the  lands  and  goods  of  Richard  Preston, 'gentilman,' who  is  an  idiot,  as 
appears  by  an  inquisition  returned  into  the  Exchequer,  during  his  life, 
without  rendering  anything  to  the  king  but  finding  a  competent  sustenance 
for  the  said  Richard  and  supporting  the  houses,  enclosures,  buildings  and 
other  charges.  By  p.s. 

June  1.  Presentation  of  John  Turbervile  to  the  parish  church  of  Farnham,  in  the 
Westminster,  diocese  of  Salisbury,  void  by  the  death  of  Robert  Byrd,  last  rector. 

By  p.s. 

June  29.        Pardon  to  Thomas  Gate  of  Brutewell,  co.  Buckingham,  'gentilman,'  alias 
Westminster,  of  Wycombe,  co.  Buckingham,  late  escheator  of  the  counties  of  Bedford  and 
Buckingham,  of  all  offences  committed  by  him  and   all   issues,  fines, 
amercements,  debts,  accounts  and  arrears  due  from  him  to  the  king. 

By  p.s. 

June  29.  The  like  to  Richard  Portyngton,  esquire,  late  escheator  of  the  county  of 
Westminster.  York,  By  p.s. 


Membrane  13. 

April  13.  Mandate  to  William  Hampton,  mayor  of  London  and  escheator  in  that 
Westminster,  city,  for  the  restitution  of  the  temporalities  of  the  abbey  of  St.  Saviour, 
Barmondsey,  in  the  diocese  of  Winchester,  to  John  Marlow,  whose  election 
as  abbot  on  the  resignation  of  John  Say  alias  Bromley,  last  abbot,  William, 
bishop  of  Sidon,  and  Thomas  Candour,  doctor  of  decrees,  commissaries  of 
Dan  William  Brekenok,  monk  of  the  Cluniac  order  and  prior  of  the  house 
of  Ste.  Marie,  Charite,  to  which  the  said  monastery  of  St.  Saviour  is 
immediately  subject,  have  confirmed,  and  whose  fealtj  the  king  has  taken. 

By  p.s. 


13  EDWARD  IV.— Part  L 


391 


1473. 


April  13. 
Westminster. 


April  17. 
Westminster, 


April  13. 
Westminster. 

April  9. 
Westminster. 


April  12. 
Westminster. 


March  23. 
Westminster. 


April  13. 
Westminster. 


Membrane  13 — cont. 

The  like  to  the  escheators  in  the  following  counties : — 
Kent  and  Middlesex. 
Essex  and  Hertford. 
Surrey  and  Sussex. 
Somerset. 

Bedford  and  Buckingham, 
Berks. 

Writ  de  intendendo  in  pursuance  to  the  tenants. 

Mandate  to  the  escheator  in  the  county  of  Stafford  for  the  restitution  of 
the  temporalities  of  the  abbey  of  SS,  Mary  and  Modwenna,  Burton  on 
Trent,  to  Thomas  Feld,  whose  election  as  abbot  John,  bishop  of  Coventry 
and  Lichfield,  has  confirmed  and  whose  fealty  the  king  has  ordered  to  be 
taken  by  I'homas  Heywod,  dean  of  the  cathedral  church  of  St.  Chad, 
Lichfield.  By  p.s. 

The  like  to  the  escheators  in  the  following  counties : — 
Warwick. 
Derby. 

The  like  to  William  Hampton,  knight,  mayor  of  London,  escheator  in 
that  city. 

Writ  de  intendendo  in  pursuance  to  the  tenants. 

Mandate  to  William  Hampton,  knight,  mayor  of  London  and  escheator 
in  that  city,  for  the  restitution  of  the  temporalities  of  the  abbey  of  Berkyng 
to  Elizabeth  Laxham,  whose  election  as  abbess  Thomas,  bishop  of  London, 
has  confirmed  and  whose  fealty  the  king  has  taken.  By  K. 

The  like  to  the  escheators  in  the  following  counties : — 
Essex. 
Middlesex. 
Surrey. 
Cambridge. 

Bedford  and  Buckingham, 
Writ  de  intendendo  in  pursuance  to  the  tenants. 

General  pardon  to  Tyse  Fannaken  alias  Fangulpyn  of  London,  *  hat- 
maker,'  of  all  oflences  committed  by  him  before  8  April.  By  p.s. 

Grant  with  the  assent  of  the  king's  brother  George,  duke  of  Clarence, 
lieutenant  of  Ireland,  to  the  mayor  and  commonalty  of  the  town  of  Droghda 
in  Ireland  of  the  whole  fee  farm  of  the  town  for  six  years  for  the  repair  of 
the  bridge  of  the  town.  By  p.s. 

Licence,  for  4  marks  paid  in  the  hanaper,  for  John  Thornbury  to  grant 
the  manor  of  Estliall,  co.  Kent,  held  in  cliief,  to  John  Gilford,  knight, 
Reginald  Sondes,  .Jolm  Bamme,  esquire,  John  Darell  and  Robert  Brent 
for  the  life  of  Theobalda  late  the  wife  of  Thomas  Mauncell ;  the  said  manor 
having  been  granted  to  him  and  William  Mareys,  esquire,  William  Toly, 
clerk,  Thomas  Mareys,  clerk,  William  Norton,  Thomas  Burges  and 
William  Godyng,  now  deceased,  by  Humphrey  Evyas  for  the  life  of  the 
said  Theobalda. 

Pardon  to  Henry  Gray,  knight,  late  esquire,  late  escheator  in  the 
counties  of  Norfolk  and  Suffolk,  in  consideration  of  the  great  disturbances 
within  the  realm  at  tlie  time  when  he  was  escheator  of  the  said  counties, 
by  which  he  was  prevented  from  attending  to  his  ofiice  or  levying  the  issues 
thereof,  of  all  offences  committed  by  him  and  all  fines,  issues,  amercements, 
debts,  accounts  and  arrears  due  from  him  to  the  king.  By  p.s. 

Appointment  during  pleasure  to  Maurice  Bejkley,  one  of  the  knights  of 
the  body,  as  surveyor  of  all  officers  of  the  king  in  the  port  of  Suthampton 


392 


CALENDAR  OP  PATENT  ROLLS. 


1473. 


April  9. 
Westminster. 


Membrane  13 — cont. 

and  the  port  of  Pole,  co.  Dorset,  and  ports  and  places  adjacent,  within 
the  houses  of  the  customers  and  without.  By  bill  of  the  treasurer. 

Whereas  the  king  understands  from  the  prioress  and  convent  of  the  house 
or  priory  of  Armythwayte,  co.  Cumberland,  situated  near  the  marches  of 
Scotland,  which  is  of  the  foundation  of  the  king's  progenitors  and  of  the 
king's  patronage,  that  the  houses,  enclosures  and  other  buildings  of  the 
priory  have  been  destroyed  by  the  Scots  and  the  priory  has  been  despoiled 
of  its  goods,  relics,  ornaments,  books  and  jewels  and  the  charters  and  other 
muniments  burnt  or  carried  off,  he  hereby  confirms  tiieir  estate  in  the 
priory  and  all  its  possessions  and  especially  in  an  ancient  close  called  '  the 
Nonne  close,'  that  they  may  pray  for  his  good  estate  and  the  good  estate 
of  Elizabeth  his  consort  and  Edward  his  son  and  for  their  souls  after  death 
and  the  souls  of  his  progenitors.    \_Monasticon,  vol.  iii.  p.  271.]       By  p.s. 


Membrane  12. 

April  1 4.  General  pardon  to  Richard  Whetehille,  esquire,  late  lieutenant  captain  of 
Westminster,  the  king's  castle  of  Guysnes,  late  one  of  the  king's  controllers  in  the  town 
and  marches  of  Calais,  of  all  offences  committed  by  him  and  all  fines, 
issues,  amercements,  debts,  accounts  and  arrears  due  from  him  to  the  king  ; 
grant  to  liim  of  licence  to  construct  a  fortalice,  castle  or  embattled  tower 
defended  with  *  loupes  '  and  other  necessary  engines  within  his  manor  of 
Boughton,  CO.  Northampton,  or  elsewhere  of  stone,  timber  and  other  stuff 
and  of  such  size  as  shall  seem  best  to  him,  with  power  for  himself, 
his  heirs  and  assigns  to  amplify  and  repair  the  same  ;  grant  to  him  of 
licence  to  enclose  and  impark  two  closes  or  parcels  of  his  said  manor 
containing  100  acres  or  less  ;  grant  to  him  and  his  heirs  and  assigns  of  free 
warren  in  all  their  demesne  lands  of  the  said  manor ;  exemption  of  him 
for  life  from  being  made  knight,  mayor,  sheriff,  escheator,  collector  or 
taxer  of  a  tenth,  fifteenth  or  any  tax,  tallage  or  subsidy  or  collector,  • 
surveyor,  controller  or  receiver  of  any  custom  or  subsidy  in  any  port  of  the 
realm  or  the  subsidy  and  ulnage  of  cloths  or  any  collector,  receiver  or 
oflicer  of  the  king,  and  from  being  put  on  assizes,  juries,  recognisances, 
attaints  or  inquisitions ;  and  grant  to  him  for  life  that  none  of  the  king's 
ministers,  servants  or  ofiicers  shall  take  anything  of  his  within  the  said 
manor  and  that  he  shall  not  be  compelled  to  entertain  anyone  of  the  king's 
household.  By  p.s. 

June  19.  Revocation  of  the  protection  with  clause  voliunus,  for  one  year,  lately 
Coventry,  granted  by  letters  patent  to  Robert  Gunton  of  London,  '  mercer,'  alias 
Robert  Gontun,  '  gentilman,'  staying  on  the  king's  service  in  the  company 
of  Thomas  Grantham,  mayor  of  the  staple  of  Calais  and  treasurer  and 
victualler  of  the  town  and  marches,  on  the  safe-custody,  defence  and 
victualling  of  the  same,  because  he  delays  at  London,  as  appears  by 
certificate  of  the  sheriffs.  By  K. 

June  19.        Signification  to  Th.  bishop  of  Lincoln  of  the  royal  assent  to  the  election 
Coventry,     of  John  Wardboys  as  abbot  of  the  monastery  of  Ramesey  in  the  place  of 
William  Witlesey,  deceased.  By  K. 

June  21.        General  pardon  to  Thomas  Pulteney  alias  Pounteney,  esquire,  of  all 
Coventry,     offeuces  committed  by  him  and  all  alienations  and  perquisitions  by  him 
without  licence  of  lands  held  in  chief.  By  K. 

June  21.        Licence  for  Laurence,  bishop  of  Durham,  to  coin  money  of  sterlings  and 
Coventry,     halfpence  in  his  royal  liberty  of  Durham  and  make  standards  and  trusses 
for  the  same,  although  he  has  not  hitherto  been  used  to  coin  halfpence. 
\^Fcedera?^  By  K. 


13  EDWARD  IV.— Part  I. 


393 


J4i73.  Membrane  12 — cont. 

June  19.  Letters  of  denization  for  Richard  Plomme,  born  in  the  city  of  Rouen, 
Coventry,     and  the  heirs  of  his  body,  without  fine  or  fee.  v 

June  25.        Appointment  during  pleasure  of  John  Batte  as  deputy  of  Anthony,  earl 
Westminster,  of  Rivieres,  chief  butler  of  England,  in  the  port  of  Sandwich  and  ports  and 
places  adjacent.  By  bill  of  the  chief  butler. 

June  19.        Presentation  of  Master  Thomas  Danet,  professor  of  theology,  to  the 
Coventrj-.     parish  church  of  Egleston,  in  the  diocese  of  Coventry  and  Lichfield,  void 
by  the  death  of  the  last  incumbent.  By  K. 

June  29.        Appointment  daring  pleasure  of  Roger  Sambroke  and  Robert  Warinton 
Westminster,  as  deputies  of  Anthony,  earl  of  Rivieres,  chief  butler  of  England,  in  the  port 
of  Boston  and  ports  and  places  adjacent.  By  bill  of  the  chief  builer. 

June  29.  General  pardon  to  William  Boner  late  of  London,  '  shether,'  alias  William 
Westminster.  Bonyr,  '  shethemaker,'  of  all  offences  committed  by  him  before  19  June. 

By  p.s. 

July  1.        Appointment  during  pleasure  of  William  Saunders  and  Andrew  James 
Westmimter.  as  deputies  of  Anthony,  carl  of  Rivieres,  chief  butler  of  England,  in  the  port 
of  Suthampton  and  ports  and  places  adjacent.       By  bill  of  the  chief  butler, 

Nov.  9.  The  like  of  Richard  Wagette  as  deputy  in  the  ports  of  Topsham,  Barde- 
W«stminster.  staple,  Bideforde  and  Ilforcombe  and  ports  and  places  adjacent. 

By  bill  of  the  chief  butler. 


Membrane  11. 

April  1.  Whereas  of  old  the  town  of  Great  Jernemuth  was  charged  with  the 
Westminster,  yearly  sum  of  60/.  from  the  fee  farm  of  the  town  and  the  farm  of  a  place 
in  the  high  sea  near  the  entrance  of  the  port  of  th(!  town  called  '  Kirkelerode,' 
and  now  the  profits  of  the  fishery  have  been  seized  by  all  the  king's  lieges 
and  foreigners  and  trade  has  dei)arted  for  want  of  a  safe  port  there,  the 
king  grants  to  the  men  of  the  town  and  the  burgesses  and  provost  of  the 
borough  of  Jernemuth  50  marks  yearly  from  the;  fee  farm  of  the  town  for 
ten  years  from  Michaelmas  last  for  the  improvement  of  the  port.       By  p.s. 

Letters  of  denization  for  Peter  Johnson,  born  in  the  town  of  Calais,  and 
the  heirs  of  his  body.  By  p.s. 

April  3.        Grant  to  the  mayor  of  Dover  of  murage  for  ten  years  to  be  expended  on 
Westminster,  the  repair  of  tiie  wall  of  the  town,  which  has  been  destroyed  by  gales,  by 
the  supervision  of  .John  Scot,  knight,  and  Walter  Ilungerford,  esquire, 
lieutenant  of  Dover  Castle. 

March  5.        General  pardon  to  John  Bataill  of  Stanford  Ryvers,  co.  Essex,  alias  of 
Westminster.  Maudeleyn  Laver,  co.  Essex,  knight :  and  grant  that  he  may  freely  hold 
his  manors  of  Ongrepark,  Maudeleyn  Laver  and  jManeuden,  co.  Essex,  and 
all  other  his  possessions.  By  K. 

March  24.      Licence  for  the  king's  clerk  Master  Robert  Slymbrigge  to  sue  in  the 
Westminster,  court  of  Rome  lor  provision  to  the  deanery  or  office  of  dean  of  Westbury, 
in  the  diocese  of  Worcester,  and  to  receive  and  publish  apostolic  bulls. 

By  p.s. 

April  9.  Grant  for  life  to  the  king's  servant  John  Couper,  one  of  the  yeomen  of 
Westminster,  the  crown,  of  Gd.  daily  for  the  fee  of  the  crown  from  Easter,  12  Edward  IV. 

at  which  time  he  had  the  office,  from  the  11/.  \os.  dd.  yearly  due  at  the 
hands  of  the  heirs  of  Edmund,  late  earl  of  Kent,  uncle  of  Edward  III.  or 
the  sheriff  of  York.  By  p.s. 

April  7.  Grant  for  life  to  William  Cheynee,  esquire,  of  the  office  of  one  of  the 
Westminster,  king's  Serjeants  at  arms,  with  wages  of  I2d.  daily  from  the  fee  farm  of  tho 


394 


CALENDAR  OF  PATENT  ROLLS. 


1473.  Membrane  11 — cont. 

city  of  London  and  a  livery  of  the  suit  of  esquires  of  the  household  yearly 
»      at  Christmas  at  the  great  wardrobe,  as  Richard  Kesten,  late  one  of  the 
king's  Serjeants  at  arms,  had,  to  whose  place  the  king  wishes  the  said 
William  to  succeed.  By  p.s. 


Membrane  10. 

March  5.  Licence  for  the  alienation  in  mortmain  by  Joan  late  the  wife  of  John 
Westmiuster.  Burgh,  knight,  John  Gamelyn,  clerk,  and  Robert  Love,  chaplain,  of  the  manor 
of  Seynt  Nicolas  Courte  in  the  Isle  of  Thanet,  co.  Kent,  not  held  in  chief, 
extended  at  12  marks  yearly,  as  appears  by  an  inquisition  taken  before 
Richard  Garnet,  late  escheator  in  the  county,  to  Master  Andrew  Doket,  the 
president,  and  the  fellows  of  the  college  of  St.  Margaret  and  St.  Bernard  in 
the  University  of  Cambridge,  to  the  value  of  13  marks  yearly  in  part 
satisfaction  of  a  licence  for  the  acquisition  by  them  of  possessions  to  the 
value  of  200/.  yearly  by  letters  patent  dated  25  March,  5  Edward  IV. 

March  23.  Grant  in  frank  almoin  to  William  Westbury,  the  provost,  and  the  college 
Westminster,  of  Eton,  so  that  they  may  pray  for  the  good  estate  of  the  king  and  Elizabeth 
his  consort  and  for  their  souls  after  death  and  the  souls  of  the  king's  father 
Richard,  duke  of  York,  Richard,  earl  of  Cambridge,  and  Anne  his  consort 
and  the  king's  progenitors,  of  the  priory  of  Shirborne  alias  Westshirborne 
Monachorum,  co.  Southampton,  with  all  lands,  rents,  farms,  churches,  tithes, 
fees,  services,  advowsons,  pensions,  portions,  rights,  possessions  and  other 
appurtenances,  a  plot  of  land  in  Eton  sometime  of  Oliver  de  Burdeux  in 
which  a  capital  messuage  was  situated,  containing  an  acre  and  3  roods  of 
land  and  of  the  value  of  2s.  \  \d.  yearly,  a  cottage  sometime  of  Walter  Claie 
of  the  value  of  2s.  yearly  and  10  acres  of  land  lying  within  the  precinct  of 
the  college  of  the  yearly  value  of  15s.,  the  alien  priory  of  Endeston,  co. 
Somerset,  and  a  messuage,  a  carucate  and  26  acres  of  land,  7  acres  of  wood 
and  8  marks  rent  in  Endeston  and  the  reversion  of  the  hospital  or  house 
of  St.  John,  Dorchestre,  co.  Dorset,  commonly  called  '  Seintjoneshous,' 
when  it  shall  next  come  into  the  king's  hands,  and  all  issues  from  the  said 
messuage,  land,  wood  and  rent  in  Endeston  from  Michaelmas,  7  Edward  IV. 

By  p.s. 

March  30.  Whereas  the  king  for  moneys  lent  assigned  to  John  Shelley  the  sum  of 
Westminster.  66/.  13s.  Ad.  by  a  tally  containing  that  sum  levied  at  the  receipt  of  the 
Exchequer  on  30  June,  9  Edward  IV.  on  the  collectors  of  the  second 
moiety  of  the  second  of  two  fifteenths  and  tenths  granted  by  the  laity 
in  the  eighth  year  of  the  reign  in  the  county  of  Buckingham,  and  also  for 
divers  debts  the  king  assigned  to  Ralph  Verney,  knight,  citizen  and 
, alderman  of  London,  76/.  \9s.  Qd.  by  a  tally  containing  that  sum  levied 
at  the  said  receipt  on  16  June,  9  Edward  IV.  on  the  collectors  of  the 
moiety,  and  the  said  Ralph  delivered  the  said  tally  to  the  said  John  in 
contentment  of  certain  debts,  but  the  said  John  has  received  no  payment 
of  the  said  sums,  amounting  together  to  143/.  \2s.  \0d.,  and  has  surrendered 
both  tallies ;  the  king  hereby  grants  that  he  or  his  executors  after  his 
decease  or  their  factors  or  attorneys  from  Christmas,  1473,  may  ship 
woollen  cloths  and  pieces  of  tin  in  the  ports  of  London,  Sandwich  and 
Southampton  and  take  them  to  foreign  parts  quit  of  customs  and  subsidies 
until  he  shall  thus  be  satisfied  of  the  said  sum  of  143/.  12s.  10(/.      By  p.s. 

May  9.        Licence  for  the  prior  and  convent  of  the  monastery  of  Ramesey,  of  the 
Westmiuster.  order  of  St.  Benedict;  in  the  diocese  of  Lincoln,  to  elect  an  abbot  in  the 
place  of  Dan  William  Witlesey,  deceased.  By  p.s. 

May  7.  Presentation  of  Thomas  Bateman,  chaplain,  to  the  parish  church  of 
Westminster.  Ivyngho,  in  the  diocese  of  Lincoln.  By  K. 


13  EDWARD  IV.— Part  I. 


395 


1473.  Membrane  10 — cont. 

May  21.  Pardon  to  John  Janyn,  chaplain,  of  his  outlawry  in  the  county  of  Essex 
Westminster,  for  not  appearing  before  the  king  to  satisfy  him  of  his  ransom  on  the 
occasion  of  a  trespass  committed  against  Agnes,  prioress  of  Clerkynwell, 
of  which  he  was  convicted,  he  having  surrendered  to  the  Marshalsea 
prison,  as  Thomas  IJyllyng,  chief  justice  of  the  King's  Bench,  has 
certified. 

April  8.        Licence  for  the  acquisition  in  frank  almoin  by  Thomas,  the  prior,  and 
Westminster,  the  convent  of  St.  Pancras,  Lewes,  of  lands,  tenements  and  rents  to  the 
value  of  20s.  yearly.  By  p.s.  and  for  31*.  paid  in  the  hanaper. 


Membrane  9. 


March  10. 
Westminster. 


March  12. 
Westminster. 


March  8.  Presentation  of  Ambrose  Repingdon,  master  of  arts,  to  the  perpetual 
Westminster,  chantry  at  the  altar  of  St.  John  Baptist  by  the  church  of  St.  Mary 
Aldermarychirche,  London,  void  by  the  resignation  of  Thomas  Dulfyld, 
last  chaplain,  and  in  the  king's  presentation  by  the  nomination  of  the 
rector  and  wardens  of  the  said  church,  as  ordained  in  the  foundation  of 
the  chantry.  The  letters  are  directed  to  Th.  cardinal  archbishop  of 
Canterbury. 

Appointment  of  Thomas  Besteney  to  take  sheaves  of  arrows,  arrowheads, 
timber,  feathers,  silk,  wax  and  other  necessaries  for  the  king's  arrows 
within  the  Tower  of  London  or  for  the  present  army  and  carriage  for  the 
same  and  '  flecchers'  and  other  labourers  and  workmen.  By  K. 

The  like  of  the  following  : — 
Gilbert  Foreman. 
John  Ball. 

Grant  for  forty  years  to  Henry  Grey,  knight,  lord  Grey,  and  his  assigns  of 
all  the  king's  soil  and  lands  called  '  le  Gale  '  and  '  the  Arde  '  in  the  nortii 
part  of  the  land  of  Ireland  and  all  castles,  lordships,  manors,  lands,  rents, 
services  and  possessions  within  the  same  and  the  fishery  of  the  river 
Banne  and  knights'  fees,  advowsons,  wards,  marriages,  reliefs,  escheats, 
forests,  chaces,  parks,  woods,  meadows,  pastures,  fairs,  markets,  warrens, 
fisheries,  stews,  courts  leet,  liberties,  franchises,  privileges,  mines,  wreck 
of  sea,  treasure  trove  and  other  profits  pertaining  to  the  above  and 
deodands,  whales  and  other  royal  fishes,  all  of  which  premises  are  parcel 
of  the  king's  earldom  of  Ulster.  Grant  also  that  if  any  other  castles, 
lordships,  manors  and  lands  in  the  said  north  part  of  Ireland  shall  be 
reduced  by  him  to  the  king's  obedience  he  and  his  assigns  shall  hold  the 
same  until  he  shall  be  reasonably  recompensed  and  he  shall  have  the 
custody  and  governance  of  the  same  for  life  with  the  accustomed  fees. 
And  appointment  of  him  for  life  as  steward  of  all  tiie  king's  castles, 
lordships,  manors,  towns,  lands  and  other  possessions  belonging  to  the  sai(l 
earldom  of  Ulster  with  the  accustomed  fees,  with  free  passage  for  himself 
and  men  armed  or  unarmed,  archers  and  equipments  from  England  or 
Ireland,  and  grant  that  he  may  have  dies  and  moneyers  for  making  the 
accustomed  money  or  other  money  of  any  metal  within  the  said  parts  duriu" 
the  said  term.  By  p.s. 

General  pardon  to  Henry  Dyke  of  the  county  of  Sussex,  '  gentilmau,'  of 
all  offences  committed  by  him  before  28  February.  By  p.s. 

Licence  for  the  prior  and  convent  of  the  monastery  of  SS.  Mary  and 
Modwenna,  Burton  on  Trent,  of  the  order  of  St.  Benedict,  to  elect  an 
abbot  in  the  place  of  Dan  William  Bronston,  deceased.  By  p.s. 

Grant  to  Hugh  Bricc,  citizen  and  goldsmith  of  London,  so  long  as  he 
holds  any  office  under  the  king  in  the  Tower  of  London  or  elsewhere,  of 


March  15. 
Westminster. 


March  11. 
Westminster, 


396 


CALENDAR  OF  PATENT  ROLLS. 


1473.  Membrane  9 — cont. 

authority  to  take  gravers,  goldsmiths  and  other  workmen  called  *  fynours ' 
for  gold  and  silver,  smiths,  carpenters,  stone-cutters  and  other  carpenters 
called  '  shipwrightes,'  mariners,  workmen,  artificers  and  labourers  and  all 
necessary  stuff  for  the  works  of  the  said  offices.  By  p.s. 

March  26.  Grant  for  life  to  John  Man,  '  yoman,'  of  the  office  of  the  custody  of  the 
Westminster,  king's  gaol  of  Dorchestre,  co.  Dorset,  with  the  accustomed  fees.       By  p.s. 

March  28.       Presentation  of  Thomas  Ousteby,  chaplain,  to  the  church  or  chapel 
Westminster,  of  Lamana,  in  the  diocese  of  Exeter,  void  by  the  death  of  the  last 
incumbent. 


Membrane  8. 

July  29.        Grant,  during  good  behaviour,  to  the  king's  servant  John  Elryngton, 
Fotheringhay.  esquire,  the  king's  cofferer,   of  the  office  of  keeper  or  clerk   of  the 
hanaper  of  Chancery,  with  the  accustomed  fees  from  the  issues  of  the 
hanaper.  By  K. 

July  27.       Grant  to  the  king's  clerk  Master  John  Coryngdon  of  the  prebend  in  the 
Stamford,    king's  college  or  free  chapel  of  St.  Mary  and  St.  George  within  the 
castle  of  Wyndesore  void  by  the  death  of  Master  William  Harmer,  last 
incumbent.  By  p.s. 

Mandate  in  pursuance  to  the  dean  and  chapter. 

Aug.  3.  General  pardon  to  Christopher  Mason  of  Westowe,  co.  York,  'yoman,' 
Leicester,    of  all  offences  committed  by  him  before  2  August.  By  p.s. 

Aug.  26.       Presentation  of  William  Philip,  chaplain,  to   the  parish  church  of 
Lichfield.     Aldrington,  in  the  diocese  of  Lincoln,  void  by  the  resignation  of  Robert 
Draper. 

Aug.  27.       Appointment,  until  27  February,  of  John  Elder,  yeoman  purveyor  of 
Lichfield,     wheat  of  the  household,  to  take  wheat,  firewood  and  multure  for  the 
expenses  of  the  household  and  carriage  for  the  same. 

By  bill  of  the  steward  of  the  household. 

Aug.  24.  Licence  for  the  acquisition  in  mortmain  by  the  abbot  and  convent  of  the 
Lichfield,  monastery  of  St.  Mary,  Halesowen,  co.  Salop,  of  lands,  tenements  and 
rents,  not  held  in  chief,  to  the  value  of  10/.  yearly,  for  the  sustenance  of  a 
chaplain  celebrating  divine  service  yearly  in  the  chapel  of  St.  Kenelm 
King  and  Martyr,  Kelmestowe,  and  for  the  repair  of  the  same  chapel  and 
the  celebration  of  divine  service  there  for  the  good  estate  of  the  king  and 
his  consort  Elizabeth,  queen  of  England,  and  for  their  souls  after  death. 

By  p.s.  and  for  40/.  paid  in  the  hanaper. 

Aug.  27.  Letters  of  denization  for  James  Friis,  doctor  in  medicine,  the  king's 
Lichfield,     physician,  born  in  the  parts  of  Friesland,  and  the  heirs  of  his  body.   By  K. 

Sept.  1.  General  pardon  to  John  Stafford  late  of  Winfeld,  co.  Derby,  '  gentilman,' 
Lichfield,     of  all  offences  committed  by  him  before  28  August  last.  By  p.s. 

Sept.  4.        Presentation  of  William  Rodys,  rector  of  the  moiety  of  the  parish  church 
Burton-on-    of  Teswell  on  the  east  side  of  the  same,  in  the  diocese  of  York,  to  the 
Trent.       parish  church  of  Spryngthorpe,  in  the  diocese  of  Lincoln,  on  an  exchange 
of  benefices  with  John  Pleseley. 

Sept.  3.        Grant  for  life  to  Florence  Harmaleyn  of  Leydon  in  the  parts  of  Holland 
Lichfield,     beyond  the  sea,  king's  esquire,  for  his  good  service  and  expenses  in  those 
parts,  of  the  office  of  constable  of  the  town  of  Drodagh  in  Ireland,  receiving 
yearly  fees  of  50  marks  from  the  issues  of  the  king's  lordship  of  Drodragh 
aforesaid,  with  all  accustomed  profits.  By  K. 

Sept.  3.  Grant  to  the  king's  servants  Humphrey  Talbot,  knight  of  the  body,  and 
Lichfield.    John  Wikes,  esquire,  and  their  assigns  of  the  collation  to  the  canonry  and 


13  EDWARD  IV.— Part  I. 


397 


1473. 


Sept.  6. 
Nottingham. 


Sept.  5. 
Burton-on- 
Trent. 


Sept.  6. 
Nottingham, 


Aug.  29. 

Lichfield. 


Sept.  14. 
Nottingham. 


Sept.  17. 
Nottingham. 

Oct.  13. 

Westminster. 


Oct.  18. 

Westminster. 


Oct.  18. 

Westminster, 


Membrane  8 — cont. 
prebend  of  Wilmote  in  the  king's  free  chapel  or  collegiate  church  of 
Tamworth  at  its  next  voidance.  By  K. 

Grant  to  Humphrey  Talbot,  knight  of  the  body,  of  an  annuity  of  40/. 
viz.  30/.  from  the  issues  of  the  manor  or  lordship  of  Irchenfeld,  co. 
Hereford,  and  10/.  from  the  issues  of  the  manor  or  lordship  of  Godrych, 
CO.  Hereford,  to  hold  so  long  as  these  manors  or  lordships  remain  in  the 
king's  hands,  to  which  tliey  came  by  the  death  of  the  king's  kinsman  John, 
late  earl  of  Shrewsbury,  and  the  minority  of  George  his  son  and  heir. 

By  p.s. 

Membrane  7. 

General  pardon  to  William  Mendham  late  of  Framyngham  at  the  Castle, 
CO.  Sufiblk,  '  yoman,'  alias  William  Mendam  late  of  Hevenyngham,  co. 
Suffolk,  alias  William  Mendeham  of  London,  '  wynter,'  alias  William 
Mendame,  '  marchaunt,'  alias  William  Menedam,  '  gentilman.'  By  K. 

Assignment  for  life  in  dower  to  the  king's  kinswoman  Katharine, 
countess  of  Shrewsbury,  late  the  wife  of  .John,  earl  of  Shrewsbury,  of  the 
manors  and  lordships  of  Wrokewardyn,  Sutton  Maddok  and  Tasseley, 
CO.  Salop,  Longhope,  Hunteley,  Beggeworth,  Ligh,  Lydney  witli  certain 
lands  called  '  Cropettes  '  in  Baggeworth,  co.  Gloucester,  Moniash,  and 
Childerston,  co.  Derby,  Brogliton,  Stokeverdon,  Asheton  and  Willesford, 
CO.  Wilts,  and  Farnham  lliall,  co.  Buckingham,  and  the  third  part  of  the 
manor  of  Bampton,  co.  Oxford,  with  all  towns,  lands,  annuities,  knights' 
fees,  advowsous  and  other  members  and  appurtenances.  By  p.s. 

General  pardon  to  Henry  Poison  alias  Poleson  late  of  the  town  of 
Trusfelde  in  the  parish  of  Wolstanton,  co.  Staflbrd,  *  yoman,'  of  all  offences 
committed  by  him  beibre  the  feast  of  St.  Laurence  last.  By  p.s. 

Grant,  during  good  behaviour,  to  Bichard  Greneway  of  the  office  of 
auditor  of  all  castles,  lordships,  manors  and  lands  late  of  the  king's  kinsman 
John,  earl  of  Shrewsbury,  during  the  minority  of  George  his  son  and  heir, 
receiving  the  accustomed  fees.  By  K. 

Licence  for  the  prior  and  convent  of  the  monastery  of  St.  Augustine 
by  Bristol  to  elect  an  abbot  in  the  place  of  Walter  Nubery,  deceased. 

By  p.s. 

Pardon  to  Thomas  Coke  of  London,  'gentylman,'  of  his  outlawry  in  the 
county  of  Middlesex  for  not  appearing  before  the  king  to  satisfy  him  of  his 
ransom  for  not  holding  Joan  Bank,  seized  on  suspicion  of  felony,  before  him 
on  a  certain  day  as  he  pledged  himself  to  do,  he  having  surrendered  to 
the  Marslialsea  prison,  as  Thomas  Billyng,  chief  justice  of  the  King's 
Bench,  has  certified. 

Revocation  of  the  protection,  with  clause  volumtis,  for  one  year,  lately 
granted  by  letters  patent  to  Robert  Storour  of  Moryngthorpe  alias 
Maryngthorpe,  co.  Norfolk, '  gentilman,'  as  staying  on  the  king's  service  in 
the  company  of  the  king's  kinsman  William,  lord  of  Hastinges,  lieutenant 
of  the  town  and  castle  of  Calais,  on  the  safe-custody,  defence  and  victualling 
of  the  same  and  the  marches,  because  he  delays  at  Moryngthorpe,  as  appears 
by  certificate  of  the  sheriff  of  the  county. 

Confirmation  during  good  behaviour  to  Master  Henry  Sharp,  doctor  of 
laws,  of  the  office  of  notary  or  prothonotary  of  Chancery,  receiving 
50  marks  yearly  from  the  issues  of  the  hanaper,  as  granted  to  him 
by  letters  patent  dated  8  July,  1  Edward  IV.  and  2  November, 
2  Edward  iV.  notwithstanding  that  in  the  time  of  the  king's  absence  he 
occupied  the  office  by  letters  patent  of  Henry  VI. 

By  p.s.  and  for  ^  mark  paid  in  the  hanaper. 


398 


CALENDAR  OF  PATENT  ROLLS. 


1473. 

July  28. 
Stamford. 


Aug.  25. 
Lichfield. 


July  28. 

Westminster. 

Oct.  16. 
Westminster. 


Oct.  21. 
Westminster. 


Oct.  27. 

Westminster. 


July  28. 
Stamford. 


July  28. 
Stamford. 


July  26. 
Stamford. 

1474, 
Jan.  10. 
Westminster. 


Membrane  6. 

General  pardon  to  Richard  Lowe  late  of  Casthorpe,  co.  Lincoln,  esquire? 
alias  late  of  Enveld,  co.  Stafford,  of  all  offences  committed  by  him  before 
26  July.  By  p.s. 

Licence  for  Giles  Dawbeney,  son  and  heir  of  William  Dawbeney,  to 
enter  freely  into  all  castles,  lordships,  manors,  lands,  rents,  reversions, 
services,  fees,  views  of  frank-pledge,  courts  leet,  hundreds,  liberties, 
franchises,  privileges,  offices,  knights'  fees,  warrens,  parks,  fisheries,  fairs, 
markets,  wreck  of  sea,  advowsons  and  other  possessions  in  England  of 
which  his  father  was  seised  and  which  should  descend  to  him,  saving  to 
the  king  homage,  fealty  and  other  services.  By  K. 

Presentation  of  Thomas  Burton  to  the  parish  church  of  Little  Laufare, 
in  the  diocese  of  London,  void  by  the  resignation  of  Henry  Ediall. 

Inspeximus  and  confirmation  to  Peter  Canerell,  the  master,  and  the 
brethren  of  the  hospital  of  Sanctingfeld  by  Wytsand  of  a  charter  dated  at 
Newcastle  on  Tyne,  5  August,  13  Edward  II.  [  Charter  Roll,  13  Edward  II. 
JSfo.  32],  inspecting  and  confirming  the  following  : — 

1.  A  charter  dated  at  Westminster,  14  June,  13  Edward  I.  [^Charter 

Roll,  13  Edward  I.  No.  76, J  inspecting  and  confirming  a  charter 
dated  at  Wytsand,  18  December,  47  Henry  III.  inspecting 
and  confirming  a  charter  of  Henry  II.  dated  at  St.  Omer 
[Monasticon  vol.  vi,  p.  639]. 

2.  Letters  patent  of  Henry  II.  dated  at  St.  Omer. 

For  40s.  paid  in  the  hanaper. 

Grant  for  life  to  the  king's  servant  John  Elryngton,  esquire,  the 
king's  cofferer,  of  the  office  of  keeper  or  clerk  of  the  laanaper  of  Chancery 
with  the  accustomed  fees  given  from  the  issues  of  the  hanaper,  in  lieu  of 
like  grants  to  John  Davyson,  clerk,  for  life  and  to  the  said  John  Elryngton 
during  good  behaviour  by  letters  patent  dated  28  August,  7  Edward  IV. 
and  29  July  last,  surrendered.  By  K. 

Presentation  of  Thomas  Pallet  to  the  parish  church  of  Borley,  in  the 
diocese  of  London. 

Membrane  5. 

Appointment  of  William  Moklowe  to  take  carpenters  called  '  whelers  ' 
and  '  cartwrighes  '  and  other  carpenters,  stone-cutters,  smiths,  plumbers  and 
other  workmen  for  the  works  of  the  king's  ordnance  and  bumbards, 
cannons,  '  colverynes,'  '  fowelers,'  '  serpentynes '  and  other  cannons  and 
powder,  sulphur,  saltpetre,  stone,  iron,  lead  and  other  necessaries  for  them, 
crossbows  and  bolts,  bows,  arrows,  '  bowestaves,'  '  bowestringes,'  '  langde- 
beves,'  lances,  '  gleyves '  and  hammers  and  other  necessaries  and  carriage 
for  the  same  by  land  and  sea  and  horses  called  '  hakeneys '  and  ships. 

The  like  of  John  Colshyll. 

Grant  for  life  to  John  Langford  of  the  town  of  Shrewsbury,  in  recompence 
of  the  losses  which  he  has  sustained  for  the  king,  of  all  the  lands,  rents  and 
services  in  ihe  county  of  Salop  and  the  hundred  of  Ellesmer  late  of 
Edward  Ellesmer,  attainted  of  high  treason  in  the  Parliament  at  West- 
minster, 1  Edward  IV.  not  exceeding  the  yearly  value  of  60s.  to  hold  by 
the  accustomed  rents  and  services.  By  p.s. 

Appointment,  until  26  January,  of  Thomas  Markham,  esquire,  to  take 
salt  and  fresh-water  fish  for  the  expenses  of  the  household  and  carriage  for 
the  same.  By  bill  of  the  steward  of  the  household. 

The  like  of  Thomas  Markham,  esquire,  until  10  .luly. 

By  bill  of  the  steward  of  the  household. 


13  EDWARD  IV.— Part  I. 


399 


1473. 

July  31. 
Fotheringhay. 


July  28. 
Stamford. 


Aug.  3. 

Leicester. 


Aug.  24. 
Lichfield. 


Oct.  11. 

Westminster. 


Membrane  5 — C07it. 

Appointment  during  pleasure,  of  Stephen  Hatfeld,  esquire,  as  troner  and 
peser  in  the  port  of  Kyngeston  on  Hull,  receiving  the  accustomed  fees. 

By  bill  cf  the  treasurer. 

Confirmation  to  Richard  Quatermayns,  esquire,  John  Leynton,  William 
Hampton,  John  Benet  and  Richard  Fowler  and  their  heirs  and  assigns  of 
the  grant  to  them  by  letters  patent  dated  13  July,  7  Edward  IV.  (see  p.  40), 
of  the  manors  of  Wilbram,  co.  Cambridge,  and  Halton,  co,  Oxford,  and 
lands,  rents,  reversions  and  services  in  Wilbram  and  Halton;  and  licence 
for  them  to  grant  the  said  manor  of  Wilbram  and  lands,  rents,  reversions 
and  services  in  Wilbram  to  Thomas  Palmer,  chaplain  of  the  church  or 
chapel  of  St.  Michael,  Great  Rycote,  co.  Oxford,  in  mortmain,  to  pray  for 
the  good  estate  of  the  king  and  his  consort  Elizabeth,  queen  of  England,  and 
for  their  souls  after  death  and  the  good  estate  and  souls  of  others  according 
to  the  ordinance  of  the  said  Richard,  John,  William,  .John  and  Richard. 

By  K.  and  for  241.  paid  in  the  hanaper. 

Presentation  of  David  Hopton  to  the  parish  church  of  Blechelee,  in  the 
diocese  of  Lincoln,  void  by  the  death  of  Roger  Eton,  chaplain,  and  in  the 
king's  gift  by  the  grant  of  Reginald  Grey,  lord  of  Wylton.  By  K. 

Commission  to  Ricliard  Syinond,  master  of  the  king's  ship  called 
le  Grace  Dieu,  which  the  king  lias  ordered  to  go  to  sea  for  the  resistance  of 
his  enemies,  to  take  mariners  for  the  said  ship. 

Appointment,  until  11  April,  of  Thomas  Rosse,  yeoman  of  the  aveuary  of 
the  household,  to  take  hay,  oats,  horse  bread  and  litter  and  other  things 
pertaining  to  his  oflice  and  carriage  for  th(!  same. 

By  bill  of  the  steward  of  the  household. 


Membrane  4. 


Oct.  19. 

Westminster. 


Oct.  18. 

Westminster. 


Oct.  3. 
Westminster. 


Oct.  27. 
Westminster. 


Mandate  to  the  esciicator  in  tiie  counties  of  Somerset  and  Dorset  for  the 
restitution  of  the  tcinnoralitics  of  the  abbey  of  St.  Augr.stine  by  Bristol, 
of  the  order  of  St.  Victor,  (o  William  Ilunte,  canon  of  the  liou.se,  whose 
election  as  abbot  John,  bishop  of  Worcester,  has  confirmed  antl  whose?  fealty 
the  king  has  taken.  By  p.g. 

The  like  to  the  escheator  in  the  county  of  Gloucester  and  the  marches  of 
Wales  adjacent. 

The  like  to  William  Spencer,  mayor  of  Bristol,  escheator  in  that  city. 
Writ  de  intendendo  in  pursuance  to  the  tenants. 

Appointment  for  life  of  William  Husee  as  the  king's  attorno}'  general 
in  all  the  king's  courts  of  record  in  England,  receiving  the  accustomed 
fees,  with  power  to  appoint  clerks  and  oflicers  under  him ;  in  lieu  of  the 
ai)pointment  of  him  during  good  behaviour  by  letters  patent  dated  10  June 
11  Edward  IV.  surrendered.  13y 

Vacated  by  stirrendo-  and  cancelled  because  the  king  granted  the  office 
to  William  Jlnddcrsfcld  for  life  by  other  letters  patent. 

Exemplification,  at  the  recpiest  of  Richard  Illyngworth,  knight,  of  the 
tenour  of  the  enrolment  of  letters  patent  dated  1  November,  33  Henry  VI. 
granting  licence  for  Rali)h,  lord  Cromwell,  knight,  to  grant  the  ca.stle  and 
manor  of  Tateshale  and  divers  other  possessions  to  William,  bishop  of 
Winchester,  and  others. 

Commission  to  John  Arundell,  knight,  John  Colshyll,  knight,  Robert 
Wylughby,    knight,    John    Crokker,    knight,   John    Fortescu,  Henry 
Bodrugan,   John    Sturgeon,    Thomas    Whalisburgh,   John  Trenowith 
Thomas  Trefrye,  John  Arundell,   John   Tremaync,  John  Carmynowe 
Richard  Eggecombe,  John  Devyok,  Oliver  Wyse,  Edward  Assheton,  John 


400 


CALENDAR  OF  PATENT  ROLLS. 


1473.  Membrane  4 — cont. 

Pentyre,  Jolin  Moile,  William  Trevenour,  John  Penpons,  John  Wydeslade 
the  younger  and  William  Horde  to  array  the  king's  lieges  of  the  county  of 
Cornwall,  and  of  other  counties  adjacent  if  necessary,  to  conquer  John, 
late  earl  of  Oxford,  and  other  rebels  who  have  entered  St.  Michael's 
Mount,  CO.  Cornwall,  and  to  bring  back  the  mount  into  the  king's  hands 
and  provide  for  its  safe-custody  and  defence.  By  K. 

Oct.  28.        Grant  to  the  king's  servant  Richard  Harecourt,  knight,  of  the  offices  of 
Westminster,  steward  of  Bamjjton,  Shryvynam  and  Swyudon  in  the  counties  of  Oxford, 
Berks  and  Wilts  with  all  other  offices  which  he  had  of  the  grant  of  John, 
late  earl  of  Shrewsbury,  to  hold  the  same  during  the  minority  of  George, 
son  and  heir  of  the  earl.  By  K. 

Oct.  30.        Licence  for  the  appropriation  in  mortmain  by  the  dean  and  chapter  of 
"Westminster,  the  cathedral  church  of  St.  Mary,  Salisbury,  co,  Wilts,  of  their  free  chapel 
within  their  manor  of  Inmer,  co.  Wilts,  which  is  of  their  own  patronage. 

By  p.s.  and  for  20  marks  paid  in  the  hanaper. 

Oct.  27.  Pardon  to  John  Asshe  of  Brampton,  co.  Derby,  '  husbondman,' of  his 
Westminster,  outlawries  in  the  county  of  Derby  for  not  appearing  before  Robert  Danby 
and  his  fellows,  late  justices  of  the  Bench,  to  satisfy  Nicholas  Baguley  and 
Joan  his  wife  of  33s»  4c?.  which  they  recovered  against  him  and  33*.  4c?. 
damages  and  to  answer  Tliomas  Foliambe,  esquire,  touching  a  debt  of  20/., 
he  having-  surrendered  to  the  Flete  prison,  as  Thomas  Bryan,  chief  justice 
of  the  Bench,  has  certified. 

Nov.  4.         General   pardon   to  Richard   Leighton  alias   Leyghton   of  London, 
Westminster.  '  yoman,'  alias  late  of  Shrewsbury,  alias  late  of  the  county  of  Salop,  alias 
Richard  Gientillman,  of  all  offences  committed  by  him  before  16  October 
last.  By  p.s. 


3IEMBRANE  3. 

Oct.  28.  Licence  for  Robert  Bothe  and  Matilda  his  wife  or  their  heirs  or 
Westminster,  executors  to  found  a  perpetual  chantry  in  honour  of  Jesus  Christ,  St.  Mary, 
St.  Thomas  Martyr,  St.  Wenefride  and  St.  Katharine  of  one  chaplain  to 
celebrate  divine  service  daily  at  the  altar  of  St.  Mary  in  the  chapel  of 
Stratton,  co.  Bedford,  for  the  good  estate  of  the  king  and  his  consort 
Elizabeth,  queen  of  England,  and  the  said  Robert  and  Matilda  and  for 
their  souls  after  death  and  the  souls  of  John  Enderby,  late  husband  of 
Matilda,  John  Seweil  and  Margaret  his  wife  her  parents,  and  Agnes  Grey 
according  to  the  ordinance  of  the  said  Robert  and  Matilda,  and  for  the  said 
chaplain  to  acquire  in  frank  almoin  lands,  tenements,  rents  and  annuities, 
not  held  in  chief,  to  the  value  of  12  marks  yearly. 

By  p.s.  and  for  40  marks  paid  in  the  hanaper. 

'  Nov.  5.        Mandate  to  the  escheator  in  the  counties  of  Cambridge  and  Huntingdon 
Westminster,  for  the  restitution  of  the  temporalities  of  the  abbey  of  Ramesey  to  Dan 
John  Wardeboys,  monk  of  the  monastery,  whose  election  as  abbot  Thomas, 
bishop  of  Lincoln,  has  confirmed,  and  whose  fealty  the  king  has  taken. 

By  p.s. 

The  like  to  the  escheators  in  the  following  counties  : — 
Norfolk  and  Suffolk. 
Essex  and  Hertford. 
Bedford  and  Buckingham. 
Northampton. 

The  like  to  John  Tate,  mayor  of  London,  escheator  in  that  city. 
Writ  de  intendendo  in  pursuance  to  the  tenants. 


13  EDWARD  IV.— Part  I. 


401 


1473.  Membrane  3 — cont. 

Nov.  10.        Appointment,  during  pleasure,  of  the  bishop  of  Rochester  ns  teacher  of 
Westminster,  the  king's  son  the  prince,  that  he  may  be  brought  up  in  virtue  and  cunning, 
and  as  president  of  his  council.    English.  By  K. 

Nov.  10.        Appointment,  until  10  May,  of  Peter  Chylde,  yeoman  ferreter  of  the 
Westminster,  household,  to  take  conies  and  rabbits  for  the  expenses  of  the  household  and 
ferrets,  stakes,  nets  and  other  engines  for  their  capture  and  carriage  for  the 
same.  By  bill  of  the  steward  of  the  household. 

Nov.  10.        Appointment,  until  10  May,  of  James  Worsley,  yeoman  purveyor  of  the 
Westminster,  avonary  of  the  household,  to  take  hay,  oats,  horse  bread  and  litter  and  other 
necessaries  for  his  offices  and  carriage  for  tiic  same. 

By  bill  of  the  steward  of  the  household. 

  Commission  to  Edward  Brampton,  Thomas  Philip  and  William  Ungle 

to  take  mariners  for  a  ship  called  Ic  Garce  going  to  sea  to  resist  the  king's 
enemies.    Unfinished.     Vacated  because  without. 

Nov.  18.  Pardon  to  Henry  Hansard,  late  escheator  in  the  county  of  Lincoln,  of  all 
Westminster,  debts,  accounts  and  arrears  due  from  him  to  the  king  before  10  November. 

By  p.s. 

Nov.  18.  Grant  to  Robert  Bothe,  doctor  of  laws,  of  the  custody  of  the  house  or 
Westminster,  chapel  called  '  le  priory  hermitage  '  by  Dorcestre,  co.  Dorset. 

Nov.  13.  General  pardon  to  Thomas  Gerard  of  Colchestre,  co.  Essex,  '  yoman.' 
Westminster,  alias  late  of  Bury  St.  Edmunds,  co.  Suffolk.  By  p.s. 


Membrane  2. 


Oct.  30.        Pardon  to  David  Tayloure  of  Trouttokyshyll  in  the  parish  of  Nony,  co. 
Westminster.  Somerset,  '  taylouro,'  of  his  outlawry  in  the  county  of  Somerset  for  not 
appearing  before  tlic  king  to  answer  for  divers  trespasses,  he  having  sur- 
rendered to  the  Marshalsea  prison,  as  Thomas  Billyng,  chief  justice  of  the 
King's  Bench,  has  certified. 

Nov.  14.        Grant  to  Thomiis  Pulteney,  esquire,  of  53/.  yearly  from  8  November, 
Westminster.  12  Edward  IV.  from  the  issues  of  the  manor  of  Osprenge  alias  Qucnocourt, 
CO.  Kent,  so  long  as  it  remains  in  the  king's  hands.  By  p.s. 

Nov.  3.  Letters  of  denization,  without  fine  or  fee,  for  Garard  Caniziani,  merchant, 
Westminster,  born  in  the  parts  of  Florence,  and  tiio  heirs  of  his  body.  By  p.s. 

Nov,  20.  Licence  for  Thomas  Grey,  esquire,  son  and  heir  of  Ralph  Grey,  knigiit, 
Westminster,  deceased,  tenant  in  chief,  to  enter  freely  into  all  castles,  towns,  lordsiiips, 
manors,  lands,  fee-farms,  annuities,  reversions,  rents,  services,  hundreds, 
fees,  views  of  frank-pledge,  courts  Icet,  sherifls  turns,  liberties,  franchises, 
fairs,  markets,  jurisdictions,  knights'  fees,  advowsons  and  other  possessions 
in  England  of  which  his  i'ather  was  seised  and  which  should  descend  to 
him.  By  p.s. 

Grant  to  the  king's  servant  Roger  Biklcy,  one  of  the  yeomen  of  the  crown, 
of  an  annuity  of  20  marks  from  the  issues  of  the  lordship  or  manor  of 
Cheswarden,  co.  Salop,  late  of  John,  earl  of  Siirewsbury,  deceased,  tenant 
in  chief,  so  long  as  it  remains  in  the  king's  hands  by  reason  of  the  minority 
of  George,  his  son  and  heir.  By  p.s. 

Grant  to  John  Grevile,  knight,  of  160/.  from  the  issues  of  the  counties 
of  Warwick  and  Leicester.  By  p.s. 

Grant  to  the  king's  servant  Master  Oliver  Kyng,  one  of  the  clerks  of 
the  signet,  of  the  custody  of  the  hospital  within  the  town  of  Dorcestre,  co. 
Dorset. 

y  96186.  C  C 


Nov.  20. 

Westminster. 


Nov.  27. 

Westminster. 

Nov.  28. 

Westminster. 


402 


CALENDAR  OF  PATENT  ROLLS. 


1473. 

Oct.  20. 

Westminster. 

Nov.  24. 
Westuiinster. 


Nov,  24. 

Westminster 


Nov.  24. 

Westminster. 

Nov.  26. 

Westminster. 

Nov.  26. 

Westminster. 


Nov.  30. 

Westminster. 


Nov.  29. 

Westminster. 


Nov.  27. 
Westminster. 


Nov.  30. 
Westminster. 


Deo.  8. 
Westminster. 


Membrane  1. 

Letters  of  denization,  without  fine  or  fee,  for  Peter  Gretlove,  born  in  the 
parts  of  Almain,  and  the  heirs  of  his  body. 

By  p.s.  and  for  \  mark  paid  in  the  hanaper. 

Pardon  to  Ralpli  Banaster,  late  of  Devises,  co.  Wilts,  'gentilman,'  late 
escheator  in  the  counties  of  Southampton  and  \Yilts,  of  all  amercements, 
issues,  debts,  accounts  and  arrears  due  from  him  to  the  king  before 
20  November.  ■  By  p.s. 

Grant  to  John  Swynnerton,  *  gentilman,'  of  the  bailiwick  of  the  wood 
of  Bubney  in  the  lordship  of  Whitchurche  and  the  woods  of  Blakaugh, 
Aughentons  VVoode,  Tilstoke  Parke,  Glasmondfall  and  Broughalwod,  co. 
Salop,  during  the  minority  of  the  king's  kinsman  George,  earl  of  Shrews- 
bury, with  the  accustomed  fees  from  tiie  issues  of  the  said  lordship  and  all 
other  profits,  as  John  Malpas,  deceased,  had  in  the  said  bailiwick  of 
Bubney.  By  p.s. 

Appointment,  until  24  May,  of  William  Mathesve,  yeoman  purveyor  of 
the  carriage  of  the  household,  to  take  carts,  waggons,  chariots,  horses,  oxen 
and  other  necessaries  for  his  office.    By  bill  of  the  steward  of  the  household. 

General  pai  don  to  Thomas  Ward  of  Burn,  co.  Cambridge,  '  husbond- 
man,'  of  all  offences  committed  by  him  before  23  November.  By  p.s. 

Grant  to  the  king's  esquire  Christopher  Talbot  of  a  yearly  rent  of  40 
marks  during  the  minority  of  the  king's  kinsman  George,  earl  of  Shrews- 
bury, from  the  issues  of  the  manor  or  lordship  of  ShufFnall,  co.  Salop. 

By  p.s. 

Grant  to  the  king's  servant  John  Maynwaryng,  knight,  of  the  office  of 
master  of  the  king's  game  of  the  king's  parks  of  Blakemere  and  Cheswardyn, 
CO.  Salop,  from  Michaelmas  last  during  the  minority  of  George,  son  and 
heir  of  John,  earl  of  Shrewsbury,  receiving  4  marks  yearly  at  the  hands 
of  the  farmers,  receivers  or  occupiers  of  the  manor  of  Blakemere.      By  p.s. 

Grant  to  the  king's  servant  Nicholas  Wortley,  one  of  the  pages  of  the 
king's  chamber,  of  the  office  of  the  custody  of  the  half  park  of  Shefeld  with 
the  garden  pertaining  to  the  same  lordship,  which  Roger  Peynton  lately 
had  of  the  grant  of  John,  late  earl  of  Shrewsbury,  to  hold  during  the 
minority  of  George,  son  and  heir  of  the  said  earl,  as  the  said  Roger  had  it 
with  the  accustomed  fees.  By  p.s. 

Grant  to  Edmund  Dudley,  knight,  in  consideration  of  the  losses  which  he 
has  sustained  in  the  king's  service  in  England,  Ireland  and  Wales,  of  the 
office  of  steward  of  the  manor  and  lordship  of  Alburbery  and  the  members 
of  the  same,  in  the  king's  hands  by  the  death  of  John,  late  earl  of  Shrews- 
bury, to  hold  during  the  minority  of  George,  son  and  heir  of  the  earl,  with 
fees  of  10  marks  yearly  from  the  issues  of  the  said  manor  and  lordship  with 
all  other  profits  pertaining  to  the  office.  By  p.s. 

Mandate  to  all  sheriffs,  mayors,  bailiffs,  ministers  and  others  to  permit 
the  men  and  tenants  of  the  town  of  Wadnesberie,  co.  Stafford,  which  is  of 
the  ancient  demesne  of  the  crown,  as  appears  by  a  certificate  sent  into 
Chancery  by  the  king's  treasurer  and  chamberlains,  to  be  quit  of  payment 
of  toll  and  expenses  of  knights  coming  to  Parliament,  according  to 
custom. 

Licence  for  the  sub-prior  and  convent  of  the  house  or  priory  of  St. 
Andrew,  Northampton,  of  the  Cluniac  order,  to  elect  a  prior  in  the  place  of 
William  Hamond,  resigned.  By  p.s. 

Membraneh  22d-l8d. 
Commissions  of  the  peace  in  various  counties.    (See  Appendix.) 


13  EDWARD  IV.— Part  I. 


403 


1473,  Membrane  IGd. 

May  18.  Commission  to  John  Burghcliier,  knight,  William  Lucy,  esquire,  Henry 
Westminster.  Boteler,  Richard  Bracebrigge,  esquii'e,  William  Catesby,  e.siquirc,  Richard 
Boughton,  esquire,  William  Bristowe  and  Thomas  Waldyeue  to  enquire  what 
lands  Ralph  Boteler  of  Sudeley,  knight,  deceased,  tenant  in  chief,  held  in  the 
county  of  Warwick  and  how  much  they  are  worth  and  who  is  his  heir  and 
to  take  the  same  into  the  king's  hands. 


Membrane  \5d. 

July  13.  Commission  to  Richard  Chok,  knight,  one  of  the  justices  of  the  Common 
Westminster.  Bench,  William  Courtenay,  knight,  Philip  Courtenay,  knight,  Thomas 
.Fulford,  knight,  John  Crokker,  knight,  Henry  Bodrugan,  esquire, 
Humphrey  Courtenay,  esquire,  Roger  Dynham,  esquire,  Charles  Dynham, 
esquire,  Edward  Courtenay,  esquire,  Peter  Courtenay,  esquire,  William 
Huddisfeld,  John  Denys  of  Orlegh,  Richard  Fortescu,  esquire,  Walter 
Ralegh,  esquire,  Humphrey  Poynes,  esquire,  Richard  Clerk,  esquire,  John 
Ralegh  the  elder,  Michael  Deny.s,  John.Wykes,  Robert  Spaldyug,  one  of 
the  king's  serjeauts  at  arms,  and  the  sheriff  of  Devon  to  go  to  the  abbey  of 
St.  Mary,  Bokeland,  co.  Devon,  of  the  Cistercian  order,  and  remove  all  those 
who  hold  it  to  the  disturbance  of  the  peace,  and  put  William  Breton,  abbot, 
in  possession. of  the  abbey,  and  arrest  and  imprison  all  wlio  resist  and  bring 
them  before  the  king  in  Clianccry  in  the  quinzaine  of  INIichaelnias  next. 
Letters  patent  were  lately  issued  without  due  thought  to  the  justices  of  the 
peace  in  the  said  county  and  others,  by  pretext  of  which  the  said  William 
Breton  was  expelled  from  possession  of  the  abbey  and  one  Thomas  Oliver, 
pretending  to  be  abbot,  obtained  possession,  and  he  and  Richard  Eggecomb, 
esquire,  William  Lobbe,  Richard  Hyll,  William  Estcote,  Robert  Estcote, 
Henry  Oxenham,  John  Rawc,  John  Tillain  and  Johu  Tanner,  yonian,  and 
others  hold  the  abbey  by  force  and  waste  its  goods,  jewels  and  oinanients, 
but  the  king  understands  by  letters  of  the  chapter-general  of  the  said  order 
exhibited  in  Chancery  that  the  said  William  has  been  duly  elected  abbot 
and  confirmed  by  the  chapter. 


3/embrane  lid. 

May  31.  Commission  of  oj'cr  and  terminer  to  the  king's  kinsmen  John,  earl  of 
Westminster.  Shrewsbury,  and  Anthony,  earl  Ryvers,  John  Dudley  of  Dudley,  knight, 
William  Hastynges  of  llastynges,  knight,  the  king's  chamberlain,  Walter 
Blount  of  Mountjoye,  knight,  Thomas  Billyng,  Thomas  Bryan,  John 
Nedeham,  knight,  Richard  Chok,  knight,  William  Laken,  Thomas  Littelton, 
Richard  Neell,  Henry  Sotehill  and  John  Sulyard  in  the  county  of  Warwick. 

By  K. 

The  like  to  the  above  in  the  following  counties  :  — 
Nottingham. 
Derby. 
Stafford. 


Membrane  13d. 

May  10,  Mandate  to  the  justices  of  the  peace  in  the  county  of  Devon,  John 
Westminster.  Fogge,  knight,  Robert  AYilloughby,  knight,  John  Crokker,  knight,  Thomas 
Fulford,  knight,  Henry  Bodrugan,  esquire,  John  Fortescu,  esquire,  John 
Fogge  the  younger,  esquire,  Thomas  Wise,  escjuire,  John  Tremayn, 
esquire,  John  Bcaumond,  esquire,  Richard  Agecombe,  esquire,  Thoma.*; 
Trethewy,  esquire,  William  Strode,  esquire,  John  atte  Welle,  John  IMoyle 
John  Sampson,  Edward  Kyngdon,  one  of  the  yeomen  of  the  crown,  William 

C  C  2 


404 


CALENDAE  OF  PATENT  ROLLS. 


1473,  Membrane  XZd — cont. 

Lobbe  and  the  sheriff  of  Devon  to  stay  execution  of  letters  patent,  obtained 
by  fraud  and  issued  without  due  thought,  ordering  them  to  go  to  the  abbey 
of  St.  Mary,  Bokelond  Monachorum,  of  the  Cistercian  order,  and  remove 
the  force  holding  the  abbey  to  the  disturbance  of  the  peace,  and  put 
Thomas  Olyver,  pretending  to  be  abbot,  in  possession  of  the  abbey  and 
arrest  William  Breton,  abbot,  whom  the  said  Thomas  Olyver  asserted  to  be 
pretended,  Humphrey  Courtenay,  esquire,  Roger  Lyswell  of  Bokelond 
Monachorum,  '  yoman,'  William  Forthe  of  the  same,  '  yoman,'  John  Palmer 
of  tlie  same,  'yomau,'  John  Gye  of  the  same,  '  smyth,'  Stephen  Olerham  of 
Colunton, '  yoman,'  and  Ralph  Atcombe  of  the  same,  'yoman,' and  others 
who  should  resist  and  imprison  them  and  bring  them  before  the  king  in 
Chancery  at  a  certain  day ;  as  the  king  understands  by  letters  of  the  chapter 
general  of  the  said  order  and  by  trustworthy  testimony  that  the  said  William 
has  been  duly  elected  abbot  and  confirmed  by  the  chapter  and  unjustly 
disturbed  in  his  possession  of  the  abbey. 

May  30.  Commission  to  William  Brocas,  Richard  Jay,  Philip  More,  John  Rumsey, 
Westminster.  John  Hamond  and  Robert  Stoman  to  enquire  what  lands  Alice  Henyngham, 
one  of  the  daughters  and  heirs  of  Henry  Brune,  knight,  tenant  in  chief, 
held  in  the  county  of  Southampton  on  the  day  of  her  death,  what  they  are 
worth,  when  she  died  and  who  is  her  heir,  and  to  take  the  lands  into  the 
king's  hands. 

Membrane  12c?. 

July  9,        Commission  to  Thomas  Philip,  master  of  a  ship  called  la  Garse,  and 
Westminster.  William  Nungell  to  take  mariners  for  the  said  ship  to  serve  the  king 
and  I'esist  his  enemies. 

The  like  to  William  Fetherston,  master  of  a  carrack  called  le  Petyr. 


Membrane  lid. 

April  9.  Commission  to  the  justices  of  the  peace  in  the  county  of  Devon,  John 
Westminster.  Fogge,  knight,  Robert  Willoughby,  knight,  John  Crokker,  knight,  Thomas 
Fulford,  knight,  Henry  Bodrugan,  esquire,  John  Fortescu,  esquire,  John 
Fogge  the  younger,  esquire,  Thomas  "Wyse,  esquire,  John  Tremayn,  esquire, 
John  Beaumond,  esquire,  Richard  Agecombe,  esquire,  Thomas  Trethewey, 
esquire,  William  Strode,  esquire,  John  atte  "Wello,  John  Moyle,  John 
Samson,  Edward  Kyngdon,  one  of  the  yeomen  of  tlie  crown,  William  Lobbe 
and  the  sheriff  of  Devon  to  go  to  the  abbey  of  St.  Mary,  Bokelond 
Monachorum,  of  the  Cistercian  order,  and  remove  the  force  holding  the 
abbey  to  the  disturbance  of  the  peace  and  put  Thomas  Olyver,  who  has  been 
ordained  abbot  and  confirmed  by  the  reformer  of  the  order,  in  possession  of 
the  abbey  and  arrest  William  Breton,  pretending  to  be  abbot,  Humphrey 
Courtnay,  esquire,  Roger  Lyswell  of  Bokeland  Monachorum,  '  yoman.' 
William  Forthe  of  the  same,  '  yoman,'  John  Palmer  of  the  same,  '  yoman,' 
John  Gye  of  the  same,  'smyth,'  Stephen  Oterham  of  Colunton,  'yoman,' 
and  Ralph  Atcombe  of  the  same,  '  yoman,'  and  other  evildoers  who  hold 
the  abbey  and  waste  its  goods,  jewels,  and  ornaments  if  they  resist,  and 
imprison  tliem  and  bring  them  before  the  king  in  Chancery  on  the  morrow 
of  Ascension  day. 

Apvil  24.       Commission  to  R.  bishop  of  Salisbury,  Maurice  Berkeley,  knight,  and 
Westminster.  John  Cheyne,  esquire,  to  arrest  certain  Norman  chaplains  staying  within 
the  diocese  of  Winchester  near  the  sea-coast  and  keep  them  in  safe  custody. 

By  K. 


13  EDWARD  IV.— Part  I. 


405 


1473.  Membrane  \  ld — cont. 

May  14.        Commisuion  to  John  Wyngl'eld,  knight,  Thomas  Brewes,  knight,  John 
Westminster.  Hevenyngham,  knight,  John  Broughtou,  esquire,  William  Loe,  esquire,  and 
John  Asshfeki,  esquire,  to  arrest  Thomas  Bury  and  bring  him  before  the 
king  and  council  in  the  octaves  of  Midsummer  next  to  answer  for  certain 
contempt. 

May  28.        Commission  to  Henry  Pakenham  and  Ralpli  Cranych  to  arrest  William 
Westminster.  YeWerton  and  Robert  Qwynbarough  and  bring  them  before  the  king  and 
council  in  the  quinzaine  of  Michaelmas  next. 


Membrane  9d. 

March  23.       Commission  of  oyer  and  terminer  to  John  Straunge  of  Straunge,  knight, 
Westminster.  Thomas  Byllyng,  Thomas  Bryan,  William  Laken,  Richard  Chok,  knight, 
Eicliard  Nele,  Thomas  Littclton,  Roger  Ree.  knight,  and  John  Elryngton 
touching  certain  trespasses,  riots,  routs,  congregations,  associations  and 
conventicles  within  the  county  of  Middlesex. 

Membrane  8d. 

Aug.  18.  Commission  to  Richard  Hastynges,  knigiit,  Thomas  Littolton,  Thomas 
Lichfield.  Ferres,  knight,  Simon  Mounteford,  knight,  Richard  Verney,  knight,  .John 
Grevyle,  knight,  William  Lucy,  John  Hugford,  Thomas  Bordyt,  Henry 
Botelor,  John  West,  John  Beaufitez  and  the  sheriff  of  Warwick  to  enquire 
concerning  certain  farms  for  lands  granted  and  divers  other  sums  of  money 
and  yearly  profits,  particulars  of  which  are  sent  to  them  for  inspection  in 
the  rolls  annexed,  which  were  paid  to  the  king's  progenitors  in  the  county 
of  Warwick,  as  appears  in  tlie  memoranda  of  the  Exchequer,  but  which 
through  the  negligence  of  the  sherifT  or  other  causes  have  not  been  fully 
paid  for  a  long  time,  and  to  certify  thereon  before  the  king  and  council  at 
Westminster  in  the  (juinzaine  of  Michaelmas  ne.xt.  By  K. 

Vacated  because  otherwise  below. 

The  like  to  the  following  in  the  counties  named  : — 

William  Hastynges  of  Hastynges,  knight,  William  .Sutton,  knight, 
master  of  the  house  or  hospital  of  Burton  St.  Lazarus  of  Jerusalem 
in  England,  Richard  Nele,  Thomas  Berkeley,  knight,  William 
Moton,  knight,  Thomas  Palmer,  Robert  Staunton,  William  Assheby, 
Geoffrey  Slierard,  Thomas  Hervy,  Richard  Chambre,  Richard 
Raynold  and  the  sheiiif,  in  the  county  of  Leicester. 
Thomas  Uvedale,  knight,  ]\Iaurice  Barkeley,  knight,  William  Sandes, 
knight,  Edward  Ba\  keicy,  Thomas  Welles,  John  Cooke,  John  Walop, 
Thomas  Poundc,  Richard  Jay,  Henry  More,  John  Whytehede,  John 
Hamond,  John  Quidauipton,  Philip  More,  Richard  Kyngismyll, 
John  Smert  and  the  sheriff,  in  the  county  of  Southanq)ton, 
Thomas  Billyng,  Ralph  llaitynges,  knight,  William  Catesby,  knight, 
Walter  Mauntell,  knight,  John  Catesby,  Thomas  Wake,  John  Dyvc, 
.Robert  Tanfcld  the  elder,  Robert  Isham,  Guy  Wulston,  William 
Neweuham,  John  Hulcotes,  John  Eltonhede,  Roger  Salisbury, 
William  Chambre,  John  Wylcokys,  Thomas  Martyn,  Alan  Boleyn, 
John  Ryngeston,  Simon  Burton  and  the  sheriff,  in  the  county  of 
Northampton. 

John  Catesby,  Thomas  Seyntlcger,  John  Gaynesford,  John  Wode  the 
elder,  Thomas  Wj-ntershuU  the  younger,  John  Ilolgrave,  John 
Goryng,  Henry  Merl.md,  Thomas  Joynour,  Thomas  Gager,  and  the 
sheriff,  in  the  county  of  Surrey. 

George  Nevyll,  knight,  .John  Fenys,  knight,  Roger  Leukenore,  knight, 
Thomas  lloo,  John  Devenysh,  .John  Wode  the  elder,  Bartholomew 


406 


CALENDAR  OF  PATENT  ROLLS. 


1473.  Membrane  8d — cont. 

Bolney,  Nicholas  Morley,  John  Dudley,  William  Cheyne,  Vincent 
Fynclie,  John  Goiyng,  Thomas  Leukenore  the  elder,  Richard 
Leukenore,  John  Wode  the  younger,  Thomas  Joynour,  Thomas 
Gager  and  the  sheriff,  in  the  county  of  Sussex. 

Richard  Quatermayns,  esquire,  Richard  Fowler,  Richard  Croft  the 
younger,  Thomas  Croft,  William  Marmyon,  Richard  Danvers, 
Thomas  Stoner,  Humphrey  Forster,  John  Langston,  Richard  Halle, 
Thomas  Wode  the  elder,  John  Sam  well,  John  Haltmond,  William 
Hithe,  Thomas  Pomerey,  John  Colyngrigge,  John  Colyns  of 
Wantyge  and  the  sheriff,  in  the  county  of  Oxford. 

William  Laken,  William  Norrys,  knight,  Edward  Langford,  Thomas 
Say,  Thomas  Walron,  Thomas  Wode  the  elder,  John  Sam  well,  John 
Haltmond,  William  Hythe,  Thomas  Pomerey,  John  Colyngrygge, 
John  Colyns  of  Wantyge  and  the  sheriff,  in  the  county  of  Berks. 

Thomas  Ursewyke,  knight,  Thomas  Littelton,  Guy  Fairefax,  Richard 
Beauchamp,  knight,  Walter  Skull,  knight,  Humphrey  Stafford, 
Thomas  Everdon,  Thomas  Lygon  and  the  sheriff,  in  the  county  of 
Worcester. 

Henry,  earl  of  Essex,  Anthony,  earl  of  Ryvers,  Richard  Harecourt, 
knight,  William  Calthorpe,  knight,  Miles  Stapulton,  knight,  John 
Hevenynghara,  knight,  Robert  Wynfeld,  knight,  Henry  Gray,  knight, 
William  Brandon,  knight,  William  Paston,  John  Fyncham,  William 
Knyvet,  Roger  Touneseud,  John  Twyer,  Henry  Spilman,  Richard 
Suthwell  and  the  sheriff,  in  the  county  of  Norfolk. 

William  Jenney,  John  Wyngfeld,  knight,  John  Hevenyngham,  knight, 
Thomas  Brewes,  knight,  Gilbert  Debcnham,  John  Sulyard,  James 
Hobard,  William  Geddyng,  William  Mckylfeld,  John  Barnard, 
Simon  Poley,  Thomas  Aldhous,  Henry  Tumour  and  the  sheriff,  in 
the  county  of  Suffolk. 

John  Wylughby,  knight,  Roger  Tocotes,  knight,  William  Colyngbourne, 
John  Whittokesraede,  .John  Monpesson,  John  Blake,  Thomas  Tropnell, 
John  Gilbert,  John  Hampton,  John  Uffenham,  John  Fenne,  John 
Chafee  and  the  sheriff,  in  the  county  of  Wilts. 

Richard  Chok,  knight,  William  Paulet,  knight,  John  Cheyne  of  Pynne, 
Henry  Hull,  John  Fitz  James,  Robert  Stowell,  John  Bykenhill, 
John  Porter,  Thomas  Tremayle,  William  Huddesfeld,  John  Warre, 
William  Hody,  William  Mountagu  of  Henley,  John  Hygans,  John 
Serger,  John  Baker,  John  Lye,  John  Heron,  John  Freland  and  the 
sheriff,  in  the  county  of  Somerset. 

Nicholas  Latymer,  knight,  William  Carant,  John  JNTone,  Henry  Hull, 
John  Newborugh,  Robert  Gray,  Walter  Cheverell,  Robert  Cappis, 
John  Brounyng,  Thomas  Husee,  Richard  No wers,  William  Nightez, 
William  Frampton  and  the  sheriff,  in  the  county  of  Dorset. 

Membrane  7d. 

John  Cheyne,  knight,  Thomas  Grey,  John  Alyngton,  William 
Alyngton,  Thomas  Lokton,  John  Ansty,  Alexander  Wode,  John 
Oulham,  Thomas  Gylmyn,  John  Forster,  William  Haselden,  William 
Draper,  John  Baly,  Thomas  Aythorpe  and  the  sheriff,  in  the  county 
of  Cambridge. 

Vacated  because  below. 

John  Stucle,  John  Knyvet,  John  Sapcot,  esquire,  John  Forster, 
William  Tailard,  .John  Collan,  Henry  Torkyugton,  John  Oulham, 
Thomas  Gilmyn,  William  Haselden,  William  Draper,  John  Baly, 
Thomas  Aythorp  and  the  sheriff,  in  the  county  of  Huntingdon. 


13  EDWAKD  IV.— Part  I. 


407 


Membrane  Id — cont. 

Thomas  Biirgbchier,  knight,  John  Fogge,  knight,  John  Scotte,  knight, 
John  Cuipepyr,  knight,  William  Haute,  knight,  John  Clerk,  Henry 
Feners,  knight,  Humphrey  Sterky,  John  Rowe,  Koger  Appylton, 
Edmund  Chertesey,  John  Bromston,  John  Alfegh,  Hamo  Bele,  Hugh 
Brent,  John  Brode,  John  Cobbe  and  the  sheriff,  in  the  county  of 
Kent. 

John  Wydryngton,  John  Lilborne  the  elder,  Roger  Heme,  Thomas 
Moresby,  John  Catryngton  and  the  sheritf,  in  the  county  of 
^Northumberland. 

Thomas  Littelton,  Richard  Corbet,  knight,  Roger  Kynaston,  knight, 
Humphrey  Blount,  knight,  John  Leighton,  Robert  Cresset,  Thomas 
Acton,  Thomas  Horde,  Hugh  Stapuiton,  Thomas  Corbet  of  Legh, 
Thomas  Toche,  John  Kemsey,  John  Boley,  William  Clerk,  Robert 
Carleton  and  the  sheriff,  iu  the  county  of  Salop. 

Thomas  Lytelton,  John  Stanley,  knight,  Hugh  Egerton,  John  Acton, 
John  Harecourt,  Richard  Bagot,  William  Basset,  Ralph  Wolseley, 
Roger  Bayle,  Robert  Hylle,  John  Wode,  William  Harper,  Rich;>rd 
Pelwail  and  the  slierifF,  in  the  count}'  of  Stafford. 

Philip  Beaumond,  Charles  Denham,  Henry  Pomerey,  John  Champer- 
noun,  William  Huddesfeld,  John  Uoweryssh,  John  Denys,  John 
Orchard,  'I'homas  Calwodeley,  John  Halwell,  Christopher  Coke, 
John  Bonevyle,  Richard  Wyteslade,  Richard  Clerk  and  the  sheriff,  in 
the  county  of  Devon. 

Thomas  Urswik,  knight,  Thomas  Mountgoincry,  knight,  Roger  Ree, 
knight,  Thomas  Tyrell,  knight,  John  Say,  knight,  Laurence 
Reynford,  knight,  Henry  Lewys,  knight,  John  Forster,  John 
Sturgeon,  Walter  Writell,  William  Grene,  John  Sulyard,  Robert 
Plummer,  John  Drax,  John  Nunny,  John  Santon,  John  Knighton, 
Henry  Stompe,  John  Ingoldesby  and  the  sheriff,  in  the  county  of 
Essex. 

John  Say,  knight,  John  Forster,  John  Sturgeon,  "Walter  Wrytell,  John 
Leventhorpe  the  elder,  William  Grene,  Thomas  Broket,  Henry 
Barley,  Thomas  Lereuthorpe  the  younger,  John  Pulter,  Johu 
Fortescu,  William  Druell,  John  Couper,  Robert  Plommer,  Johu 
Drax,  John  Nunny,  John  Santon,  John  Knighton,  Henry  Stamp 
and  the  sheriff,  in  the  county  of  Hertford. 

John  Dcvercux,  knight,  Richard  Croft,  knight,  Jolin  Lyngen,  knight, 
Thomas  Cornewaill,  knight,  tlanips  Ihiskorvyle,  knight,  Eustace 
Whytcnoy,  Thomas  Brugge,  John  Welford,  John  Wyn,  Simon 
Milborne,  Thomas  Monyngton  and  the  sheriff,  in  the  county  of 
Hereford. 

Richard  Byngham,  knight,  Robert  Markhani,  knight,  Robert  Clyfton, 
knight,  Robert  Sutton  of  Arom,  William  Babyngton,  Gervase 
Clyfton,  knight,  Thomas  Molyneux,  William  Wentworth,  Thomas 
Nevyll  of  Sutlileverton,  Thomas  Orston,  William  Waryn,  Thomas 
Byngham,  John  Stanop,  John  Metheley  and  tlie  sheriff,  in  the 
county  of  Nottingham. 

John  Botiller,  kuight,  John  Grovyle,  knight,  Richard  Beauohamp, 
knight,  Maurice  Barkeley  of  Beverslon,  knight,  William  Notyngham, 
John  Cassy,  Roger  Kemys,  Thomas  J>ymeryk,  Thomas  Baynham, 
John  Twynyho  of  Cirencestre,  Kenelm  Dycas,  John  Trye,  Simou 
Adams,  Thomas  Bukland,  Thomas  Morgan  and  the  sheriff,  in  the 
county  of  Gloucester. 

Robert  Constable,  knight,  AValter  Griffyth,  knight,  Robert  Hylyard, 
William  Elp.nd,  John  Vavasour,  Edward  Saltmersb,  Henry  Thwayfes, 
Edmund  Serne,  Stephen  Copyndale  and  the  sheriff,  in  the  East 
Riding  of  the  county  of  York. 


408 


CALENDAR  OF  PATENT  ROLLS. 


X473,  Membrane  Id — cont.  « 

John  Pylkyngton,  knight,  John  Say vyle,  kniofht,  Richard  FitzWilliam, 
knight,  Hugh  Hastynges,  knight,  William  Plompton,  knight, 
William  Gascoign,  William  Sayvyle,  William  Hoptou  of  Swyllyng- 
ton,  Brian  Rouclyff,  Guy  Fairefax,  Henry  Sotehill,  Robert  Gascoign, 
John  Woderoue,  William  Bredford  and  the  sheriff,  in  the  West 
Riding  of  the  county  of  York. 
Robert  Dauby,  knight,  Richard  Pygot,  James  Strangways,  knight, 
John  Conyers,  knight,  John  Pikeryng,  knight,  Edmund  Hastynges, 
knight,  Ralph  Asslieton,  knight,  William  Evre,  knight,  Thomas 
Wytham,  Henry  Evre  and  the  sherift",  in  the  North  Riding  of  the 
county  of  York. 

Nicholas  Langford,  knight,  Henry  Vernon,  Nicholas  Knyveton,  Ralph 
FitzHerbert,  Henry  Stathum,  John  Cursum,  Thomas  Fraunceys, 
Thomas  Poutrell,  Robert  Eyre,  John  Fitzbyrd  the  elder,  Thomas 
Hunt,  Ralph  Saclieverell,  John  Bradshawe,  Laurence  Lowe  and  the 
sheriff,  in  the  county  of  Derby. 


Membrane  6d. 

Nov.  22.  Commission  to  William  Courteney,  knight,  Philip  Courteney,  knight, 
Westminster.  Robert  Willoughby,  knight,  Thomas  Fulfbrd,  knight,  Thomas  Seyntleger, 
John  Crokker,  knight,  William  Huddesfeld,  John  Denys,  John  Tanner, 
Robert  Spaldyng,  one  of  the  king's  Serjeants  at  arms,  and  the  sheriff  of 
Devon  to  arrest  William  Breton,  abbot  of  the  monastery  of  St.  Mary, 
Bokelond,  and  Thomas  Olyver,  Thomas  Lee  and  Edward  Edwardes,  monks 
of  the  monastery,  and  bring  them  before  the  king  in  Chancery. 


Membrane  5d. 


July  27. 

Stamford. 


Aug.  24. 

Lichfield. 


Sept.  1. 

Lichfield. 


Sept.  2. 

Lichfield. 


Sept.  10. 
Kottiugharu. 


Sept.  17. 
Nottingham. 


Commission  of  oyer  and  terminer  to  the  king's  kinsmen  John,  duke  of 
Norfolk,  and  John,  duke  of  Suffolk,  Thomas  Byllyng,  Thomas  Bryan, 
Richard  Chok,  knight,  John  Nedeham,  knight,  William  Laken,  Thomas 
Lytylton,  Richard  Nele,  John  Wyngfeld,  knight,  John  Heyenjngham, 
knight,  William  Jenney,  John  Sulyard,  William  Flarleston,  Thomas  Plater, 
John  Jermy  and  James  Hobard  in  the  counlies  of  Norfolk  and  Suffolk. 

By  K. 

Commission  to  Humphrey  Blount,  knight,  and  Nicholas  Leveson  to 
enquire  what  lands  Walter  Wraltesley,  knight,  tenant  in  chief,  held  in  the 
county  of  Worcester,  how  much  they  are  worth,  on  what  day  he  died  and 
who  is  heir,  and  to  take  the  lauds  into  the  king's  hands. 

Commission  to  John  Elryngton,  esquire,  and  Thomas  Stydolff  to 
enquire  what  lands  John,  earl  of  Shrewsbury,  tenant  in  chief,  held  in  the 
county  of  Stafford,  what  Ihey  are  worth,  on  what  day  he  died,  and  who  is 
his  heir,  and  to  take  the  lands  into  the  king's  hands. 

The  like  to  John  Elryngton,  Thomas  Stydolff  and  the  sheriff  of  Stafford 
touching  the  lands  held  by  Walter  Wrattesley,  knight,  tenant  in  chief,  in 
the  said  county. 

Commission  to  the  king's  brother  Richard,  duke  of  Gloucester,  to  array 
the  king's  lieges  of  the  county  of  York  and  bring  them  to  the  king's 
presence  with  all  speed  when  required.  By  K. 

Commission  to  Roger  Tocotes,  knight,  John  Cheyne  of  Fallesedon 
Cheyne,  John  Mompesson,  Henry  Longe,  John  Whittokesmede,  Robert 
lilaynard  and  the  sheriff  of  Wilts  to  enquire  about  all  wards,  marriages, 
reliefs  and  escheats  pertaining  to  the  king  and  concealed  from  him,  all 


13  EDWARD  IV.— Part  I. 


409 


1473.  ■  Membrane  Cid — cont. 

escapes  of  felons  from  prison  and  all  alienations  of  lands  in  mortmain 
without  licence  in  the  said  county. 


Membrane  4d. 

Oct.  29.  Commission  to  all  sheriffs,  mayors,  bailiffs,  constables  and  other  officers 
Westminster,  and  ministers  of  the  king  and  to  Kobert  Spaldyng,  one  of  the  king's 
Serjeants  at  arms,  on  complaint  by  Thomas  Yare  of  Edynburgh  in  Scotland, 
Scot,  and  Arrhibald  Tadryk  his  attorney  that  Robert  Wellys  of  Whitby, 
master  of  a  ship  whose  name  is  unknown,  of  which  Robert  Constable, 
knight,  and  Thomas  Chapman  are  owners  and  victuallers,  and  Thomas 
Benet  with  other  accomplices  in  the  same  ship  on  8  October  within  two 
miles  of  '  la  peere '  of  Flamburgh,  co.  York,  entered  a  ship  of  his  called 
le  Marye  sailing  to  England  with  salmon  and  other  fish  to  the  value  of 
200Z.  under  confidence  of  a  safe-conduct  of  the  king  and  seized  the  ship 
and  mariners  contrary  to  the  form  of  the  truces  between  the  king  and  his 
kinsman  James,  king  of  Scots,  to  arrest  and  imprison  the  said  Robert 
Wellys,  Thomas  Benet,  Robert  Cunstablc,  Thomas  Chapman  and  others  and 
to  cause  restitution  to  be  made  of  the  said  mariners,  ship  and  fish. 


Membrane  3d. 


Nov.  10, 
Westminster. 


Nov.  13. 

Westminster. 

Nov.  16. 
Westminster. 


Commission  to  the  mayor  of  Rochester  and  John  Sarabroke,  one  of  the 
king's  Serjeants  at  arni.s,  to  arrest  Eobeit  Cook,  John  Wadell,  Robert 
Lokear,  John  May  and  Robert  Pecok  and  bring  them  before  the  king  and 
council  in  the  quinzaine  of  Martinmas  next. 

Commission  to  Edward  Brampton  and  Thomas  Philip,  master  of  a  ship 
called  le  Garce,  to  fake  mariners  for  the  eaid  ship,  which  the  king  lias 
ordered  to  go  to  sea  with  other  ships  to  resist  his  enemies. 

Commission  to  Edward  Brampton,  Thomas  Philip  and  William  Ungle 
to  take  mariners  for  a  ship  called  Ic  Garce,  which  the  king  has  ordered  to 
go  to  sea  with  other  ships  to  resist  his  enemies. 

The  like  to  Thomas  Batson,  master  of  a  ship  called  le  Cristojer. 

The  like  to  the  following  : — 

William  Fetherston,  master  of  a  ship  called  le  Curayon. 
Ralph  Castilion,  master  of  a  ship  called  le  Mai  ie  Sliirborn. 


41Q 


13  EDWARD  IV.— Part  ir. 


]^4'73^  Membrane  21. 

July  5.        Appointment,  during  pleasure,  of  Edmund  Geddynge,  esquire,  as  deputy 
Westminster,  of  Anthony,  earl  Rivieres,  chief  butler  of  England,  in  the  port  of  Lynne  and 
ports  and  places  adjacent.  By  bill  of  the  chief  butler. 

The  like  of  the  following  in  the  ports  named  and  ports  and  places 
adjacent : — 

William  Alyngton,  esquire,  and  John  Sowliardo,  '  gentilman,'  in  the 

port  of  Ipswich. 
William  Kuoyle  in  the  port  of  Poole. 
July  1.  John  Tremaile  in  the  port  of  Bryge water. 

Westminster.  By  bill  of  the  chief  butler. 

Sept.  11.  Licence  for  the  alienation  in  mortmain  by  John,  bishop  of  Coventry  and 
No'ttingham.  Lichfield,  William,  lord  Hastyngez,  knight,  Thomas,  lord  Stanley,  knight, 
William,  abbot  of  Bufford,  Thomas  Burgh,  knight,  William  Stanley,  knight, 
James  Stanley,  clerk,  William  Babyngton,  esquire,  Ralph  Sauchevcrell, 
esquire,  Henry  Stathom,  esquire,  John  Staunton,  esquire,  Richartl  Malory, 
esquire,  and  William  Orel),  clerk,  to  the  abbot  and  convent  of  Dale  of  the 
advowson  or  patronage  of  the  church  of  Henour,  not  held  in  chief,  in  aid  of 
their  sustenance  and  for  the  celebration  of  divine  service  for  the  good  estate 
of  the  king  ;  and  for  the  appropriation  in  mortmain  by  the  said  abbot  and 
convent  of  the  said  church,  provided  that  a  perpetual  vicarage  be  sufficiently 
endowed  and  a  competent  sum  from  the  profits  of  the  church  be  yearly 
distributed  among  the  poor  and  parishioners  of  the  same  by  the  diocesan  of 
the  place.  By  K. 

Oct.  14.        Presentation  of  Robert  Broundyssh  to  the  parish  church  of  Karleton 
Westminster.  Colvilde,  in  the  diocese  of  Norwich,  void  by  the  death  of  Robert  Cade,  last 
parson. 

Oct.  20.        General  pardon  to  Thomas  Frevile  late  of  Henyngham,  co.  Essex,  alias 
Westminster,  late  of  Little  Shelford,  co.  Cambridge,  '  gientillman,'  of  all  offences  com- 
mitted by  him  before  14  October.  By  p.s. 

Oct.  8.         Grant  to  the  king's  esquire  Gilbert  Talbot,  one  of  the  bearers  of  the 
Westminster,  king's  cups,  of  the  office  of  steward  of  the  towns  and  lordships  of  Blakmer 
and  Whitchurch,  co.  Salop,  during  the  minority  of  the  king's  kinsman 
George,  earl  of  ShrcAvsbury,  with  the  accustomed  fees  from  the  issues  of  the 
lordships.  By  p.s. 

Sept.  16.  Gi'ant  for  life  to  the  king's  servant  Ralph  Asshetou,  one  of  the  esquires 
Nottingham,  of  the  household,  of  the  manors  or  lordships  of  Landhilpe  alias  Landilik 
and  Lydurant,  co.  Cornwall,  in  the  king's  hands  by  the  forfeiture  of  John, 
late  earl  of  Devon,  which  John  Yong,  now  deceased,  lately  had  for  life  of 
the  king's  grant,  to  hold  with  all  wards,  marriages,  reliefs,  courts  leet,  views 
of  frank-pledge,  knights'  fees,  advowsons,  rents,  services  and  other  rights 
by  the  accustomed  services.  By  K. 

Oct.  21.        Pardon  to  John  Whatlon  of  Herborogh,  co.  Leicester,  '  taillour,'  of  his 
Westminster,  outlavv'ry  in  the  county  of  Middlesex  for  not  appearing  before  the  king  to 
answer  for  divers  trespasses,  he  having  surrendered  to  the  Marshalsea 
prison,  as  Thomas 
certified. 


Billyng,  chief  justice   of  the   King's   Bench,  has 


Oct.  29.  Licence  for  the  alienation  in  mortmain  to  William,  the  abbot,  and  the 
Westminster   convent  of  St.  Mary's,  Stonley,  by  John  Hugford,  esquire,  and  Thomas 


13  EDWARD  IV.— Part  II. 


411 


1473.  Membrane  21 — cont. 

Waldyeve  of  ten  messuages,  two  carucates  and  20  acres  of  land,  20  acres  of 
meadow,  12  acres  of  wood,  12s.  of  rent,  a  rent  of  a  pound  of  pepper  and  a 
red  rose  and  a  moiety  of  a  fishery  in  the  river  Aven  in  Assho,  Nuneton 
and  Radway,  and  by  John  Spary,  clerk,  of  five  messuages,  80  acres  of  land, 
8  acrei5  of  meadow  and  4  acres  of  pasture  in  Cobinton,  5s.  rent  in  Knyghtcote 
and  Northend  and  3  acres  of  land  and  2  acres  of  meadow  in  Napton  on  the 
Hill,  not  held  in  chief,  extended  at  4  marks  6s.  yearly,  as  appears  by  an 
inquisition  taken  before  Edmund  Verney,  escheator  in  the  county  of 
Warwick,  to  the  value  of  10  marks  yearly,  in  part  satisfaction  of  a  licence 
by  letters  patent  dated  20  February,  7  Edward  IV. 


Membrane  20. 


April  &. 
Westminster. 


July  9. 
Westminster. 


May  28. 

Westminster. 


Oct.  7. 

Westminster. 

Oct.  1. 

Westminster. 


Oct.  16. 

Westminster. 

Oct.  19. 
Westminster. 


Oct.  8. 

Westminster. 


Oct.  30, 

Westminster. 


Dec.  16. 

Westminster. 


General  pardon  to  the  mayor  and  society  of  the  merchants  of  the  staple  of 
Calais ;  provided  that  this  shall  not  extend  to  them  in  respect  of  the 
retontiou  of  customs  and  subsidies  by  virtue  of  any  act  of  Parliament,  or  to 
the  treasurer  and  the  victualler  of  the  town  in  respect  of  their  oflices. 

By  K. 

Pardon  to  Thomas  Burgh,  knight,  constable  of  the  castle  of  Lincoln,  of 
all  offences  committed  by  him,  all  escapes  of  felons  and  all  fines,  amerce- 
ments, issues,  debts,  accounts  and  arrears.  By  p.s. 

Pardon  to  William  Norburgh  late  of  London,  '  scoler,'  son  of  Henry 
Norburgh  of  London,  'baker,'  for  the  death  of  David  Afton  late  of  London, 
*  baker,'  for  which  he  was  detained  in  the  ^^a^sllalsea  prison,  as  it  appears 
by  certificate  of  Tiiomas  Billyng,  chief  justice  of  the  King's  Bench,  that  he 
killed  him  by  mishap. 

Presentation  of  Geoffrey  jVIaliard,  chaplain,  to  the  parish  church  of 
Borle,  in  the  diocese  of  London,  void  by  the  death  of  Thomas  Fenne,  last 
I^arson. 

Grant  to  the  king's  knight  Richard  Croft  of  the  office  of  receiver  of  the 
lordships  of  Goderych,  Urchinfeldc,  Corsara  and  Blakmer  and  all  other 
lordships,  rents  and  tenements  within  the  counties  of  Hereford  and  Salop  in 
the  king's  hands  by  reason  of  the  minority  of  George  Talbot,  earl  of 
Shrewsbury,  sou  and  heir  of  John  Talbot,  late  carl  of  Shrewsbury,  to  hold 
during  the  said  minority,  with  all  fees.  By  K. 

General  pardon  to  Nicholas  Strelley,  knight,  of  all  offences  committed  by 
him  before  13  October.  By  p.s. 

Appointment,  during  pleasure,  of  Thomas  Stydolff  as  steward  and 
receiver  of  the  manors  of  Slirevenham,  co.  Berks,  Sweyndon  and  Broughton, 
CO.  Wilts,  and  Lydney,  co.  Gloucester,  in  the  king's  hands  by  reason  of  the 
minority  of  George,  son  and  heir  of  John,  late  earl  of  Shrewsbury,  receiving 
the  accustomed  fees.  By  K. 

Grant  to  the  king's  esquire  Gilbert  Talbot,  one  of  the  bearer-s  of  the 
king's  cups,  of  an  annuity  of  100  marks  from  the  issues  of  the  lordships  of 
Blakmere  and  Whitchurch  during  the  minority  of  the  king's  kinsman 
George,  earl  of  Shrewsbury,  and  so  long  as  the  lordships  remain  in  the 
king's  hands.  By  p.s. 

Gcnenil  pardon  to  John  Pynne  late  of  Shiryngtou,  co.  Buckingham, 
'  husbondman,'  of  all  offences  committed  by  him  btiforo  20  June  last. 

By  p.s. 

Grant  to  Laurence,  bishop  of  Durham,  and  John  Audeley,  knight,  lord 
Audulcy,  and  their  assigns  of  the  collation  to  the  next  vacant  prebend 
within  the  king's  free  collegiate  chapel  of  St.  Mary  and  St.  George  within 
the  castle  of  Wyndesore.  By  K. 


412 


CALENDAR  OF  PATENT  ROLLS. 


J 473.  Membrane  20 — cont. 

Dec.  5.         Grant  during  the  minority  of  George,  earl  of  Shrewsbury,  to  Thomas 
Westminster.  Elrington  of  the  oliice  of  bailiff  of  the  lordships  of  Whiston,  Treton  and 
Hansworth,  co.  York,  with  fees  of  60*.  8c?.  yearly  from  the  issues  of  the 
lordships,  as  he  had  of  the  grant  of  Elizabeth,  countess  of  Shrewsbury, 
deceased.  By  p.s. 


Membrane  19. 

Nov.  27.  Grant  for  life  to  the  king's  servitor  Edmund  Rodeney  of  the  office  of  the 
Westminster,  custody  of  the  king's  forests  of  Kingeswode,  co.  Gloucester,  and  Filwode, 
CO.  Somerset,  with  power  to  nominate  all  foresters,  rangers  and  officers 
within  the  same,  with  all  accustomed  fees  and  profits,  receiving  from  Easter, 
11  Edward  IV.  from  which  date  he  has  held  the  office,  T\d.  daily  for  the 
wages  of  the  foresters  of  the  said  forest  of  Kyngeswode  as  in  the  times  of 
Edward  III.  and  Richard  II.  from  the  fee  farm  and  issues  of  the  town  of 
Bristol  in  the  same  manner  as  Humphrey  Stafford,  late  earl  of  Devon,  or 
anyone  else  who  had  the  office.  By  p.s. 

Nov.  29.  Grant  for  life  to  Richard  Fenys,  knight,  lord  Dacre,  for  his  good  service 
Westminster,  to  the  king  and  his  consort  Elizabeth,  queen  of  England,  of  the  reversion 
of  the  oflice  of  constable  of  the  Tower  of  Loudon  with  all  fees  and  profits 
on  the  death  of  John,  lord  of  Duddeley,  to  whom  and  to  John,  earl  of 
Worcester,  now  deceased,  tbe  same  was  granted  for  life  by  letters  patent  on 
13  February,  7  Edward  IV.  By  K. 

Nov.  29.        Grant  to  the  king's  chaplain  Master  William  Dudley,  dean  of  the  king's 
Westminster,  chapel  and  prebendary  of  the  prebend  of  Brovvneswode  in  the  cathedral 
church  of  St.  Paul,  London,  of  tbe  custody  or  deanery  of  the  king's  free 
chapel  of  St.  Mary  and  SS.  George  and  Edward  within  the  castle  of 
Wyndesore,  on  an  exchange  of  benefices  with  Master  John  Davyson. 

By  K. 

Mandate  to  R.  bishop  of  Salisbury  to  admit  him  to  the  cure  of  souls  of 
the  said  chapel. 

Mandate  to  Master  Alexander  Lee,  one  of  the  canons  residentiary  of  the 
said  chapel,  to  institute  him. 

Nov.  15.        General  pardon  to  John  Ottir  of  Fenton,  co.  York,  '  gentilman,' a/»as 
Westminster.  John  Otter  of  IJskelf,  co.  York,  alias  John  Ottre  of  London,  '  yoman,' 
alias  of  Howell,  co.  Lincoln,  alias  of  Walkehamstowe,  co.  Essex,  of  all 
olfences  committed  by  him  before  7  November.  By  p.s?. 

Aug.  1.         Appointment,  during  pleasure,  of  John  Broun  as  deputy  of  the  king's 
Westminster,  kinsman  Anthony,  earl  Ryvers,  chief  butler  of  England,  in  the  port  of 
Newcastle  on  Tvne  and  ports  and  places  adjacent. 

By  bill  of  the  chief  butler. 

Nov.  24.        Pardon  to  Brian  Sandford  late  of  Maltby  in  le  Marssh,  esquire,  late 
Westminster,  escheator  of  the  late  king  in  the  county  of  Lincoln,  of  all  offences  com- 
mitted by  him  and  all  fines,  amercements,  issues,  debts,  accounts  and 
arrears  due  from  him  to  the  king  before  19  June  last.  By  p.s. 

Dec.  10.  General  pardon  to  William  Lullam  alias  Lulham  of  Rype,  co.  Sussex, 
Westminster.  '  husbondmau,'  of  all  offences  committed  by  him  before  6  December. 

By  p.s. 

Dec.  13.        Appointment  of  Richard  Patyn  to  take  carriage  by  land  and  sea  and 
Westminster,  fresh  water  for  divers  ordnance  which  the  king  has  ordered  to  be  taken  to 
St.  Michael's  JNIount  against  the  rebels  there  and  timber  and  iron  and 
other  necessaries  for  the  same  and  carpenters  called  '  whelewrightes '  and 
'  cartwrightes '  and  other  carpenters. 
The  like  of  Richard  Veron. 


13  EDWARD  IV.— Part  II. 


413 


1473.  Membrane  19 — cont. 

Dec.  14.       Appointment,  until  14  June,  of  Joiin  Gardyner,  yeoman  of  the  office  of 
Westmiuster.  the  poultry  (pulline)  of  the  household,  to  take  ducks,  capons,  hens,  pullets 
and  other  birds.  By  bill  of  the  steward  of  the  household. 

The  like  of  John  Botull. 


Membrane  18. 


Nov.  14. 
Westminster. 


1474. 

Jan.  3. 

Westminster. 


Jan.  21. 

W  estrainstcr. 


Jan.  30. 

Westminster. 


Jan.  12. 

Westminster. 


Feb.  2. 
Westminster. 

Feb.  3. 

Westminster. 


Exemplification,  at  the  request  of  John  Bourgchier,  knight,  and 
Elizabeth  his  wife,  kinswoman  and  heiress  of  Roger  Quyncy,  earl  of 
Winchester,  of  the  tenour  of  tiie  enrolment  of  letters  patent  dated 
24  January,  20  Henry  III.  [Charter  lioll,  20  Henrtj  HI.  m.  8.] 
inspecting  and  confirming  to  the  said  earl  a  charter  dated  19  July,  1  John. 
Tliese  letters  have  been  lost  by  accident,  as  the  said  John  has  taken  oath  in 
Chancery,  and  will  be  surrendered  if  found. 

Grant  (o  John  Blount,  one  of  the  esquires  of  the  body,  and  the  heirs 
male  of  his  body,  for  his  good  service  to  the  king  against  the  rebels  and  in 
business,  of  the  manor  or  lordship  of  Haloughton,  co.  Leicester,  worth  16/.  8  v. 
yearly,  and  all  other  lands,  rents,  services  and  reversions  in  Haloughton 
with  kniglits'  fees,  advowsous,  courts  leet,  liberties,  franchises  and  other 
commodities  late  of  William,  late  viscount  Beaumont,  and  in  the  king's 
hands  by  virtue  of  an  act  of  forfeiture  in  Parliament  at  Westminster, 
4  November,  1  Edward  IV.  to  hold  by  the  services  of  as  many  knights' 
fees  and  as  many  other  rents  and  services  as  they  were  hehl  by  before 
4  March,  1  Edward  IV.  with  all  issues  from  Easter,  11  Edward  IV. 

By  p.s. 

Grant  for  hfe  to  the  king's  servitor  Peter  Wraton,  one  of  the  yeoman  of 
the  crown,  of  6</.  daily  for  his  fee  of  tlie  crown  from  Easter  last,  from  which 
time  he  has  been  one  of  the  yeomen  of  the  crown,  from  the  fee  farm  of  tiie 
city  of  Norwich.  B}'  p.s. 

Whereas  John  Thorpe,  clerk,  lately  before  the  ju.stices  of  the  Bench 
impleaded  Stephen  Cloos  late  of  Carlisle,  co.  Cumberland,  clerk,  of  a  debt 
of  20/.  and  the  latter  because  he  did  not  ap])car  was  put  in  exigent  in  the 
hustings  of  London  and  afterwards  was  thrice  exacted  and  did  not  appear 
and  was  exacted  a  fourth  time  in  London  on  Monday  the  feast  of 
St.  Edmund,  9  Edward  IV.  and  aj)peared  in  his  own  person  and 
surrendered  to  prison,  bul  altliough  he  was  not  outlawed  certain  escheators 
and  other  officers  aiicl  ministers  of  the  king  supposing  him  to  have  been 
outlawed  seised  and  carried  off"  divers  of  his  goods  and  chattels;  the  king 
hereby  declares  the  said  Stephen  to  be  a  true  liege  and  not  outlawed  and 
grants  protection  in  this  for  him  and  his  possessions,  benefices  and  goods. 

By  K. 

Grant,  during  office,  to  Master  John  Gunthorpe,  clerk  of  Parliament,  of 
7/.  5*.  Ad.  yearly  from  the  issues  of  the  hanaper  from  24  October,  12 
Edward  IV.  in  lieu  of  a  grant  to  him  of  vesture  by  letters  patent  of  that 
date,  surrendered.  By  K. 

Grant  to  the  king's  sister  Anne,  duchess  of  Exeter,  of  the  next  pre- 
sentation to  the  perpetual  chantry  at  the  altar  of  St.  Mary  the  Virgin  in  the 
cathedral  church  of  Chichester,  which  Master  John  Nyman  now  has. 

Grant  for  life  to  the  king's  servants  William  Selby  and  John  Hampsterly, 
yeomen  ushers  of  the  king's  hall,  of  a  messuage,  inn  or  tenement  called 
*  le  Belle  in  le  Hope '  with  three  tenements  annexed  in  the  parish  of 
St.  Mary  le  Stronde  without  the  bar  of  the  New  Temple,  London,  and  all 
other  lauds  and  tenements  in  the  same  parish  and  a  messuage  or  tenement 


414 


Ci^LENDAR  OF  PATENT  EOLLS. 


1474.  Membrane  18 — cont. 

in  the  parish  of  St.  Clement  Danes  without  the  bar  of  the  New  Temple 
late  of  Kichard  Stuclay  late  of  Lambhithe,  co.  Surrey,  esquire,  and  in  the 
king's  hands  by  his  forfeiture  and  by  virtue  of  an  act  in  Parliament  at 
Westminster,  4  November,  1  Edward  IV.  to  hold  from  St.  Thomas  the 
Apostle  last  by  the  accustomed  services.  By  K. 

Feb.  5.         Pardon  to  Richard  Halmer  son  and  heir  of  Richard  Halmer,  late 
Westminster,  escheator  in  the  county  of  Lincoln,  and  tenant  of  his  lands,  of  all  debts  and 
accounts   due  from  him  to  the  king  for  his  father  and  all  actions  and 
demands  which  the  king  might  have  against  him  for  any  offences  committed 
by  his  fatlier.  By  p.s. 

Feb.  9.         Grant  for  life  to  the  king's  servant  William  Marshall,  yeoman  of  the 
Westminster,  king's  chamber,  of  a  tenement  called  '  Shelles  tenement '  in  the  parish  of 
St.  Mary  Stanyng,  London,  to  hold   by  tlie  rents  and  services  of  \d. 
yearly.  By  K. 

Feb.  11.  Pardon  to  the  king's  kinsman  Th.  cardinal  archbishop  of  Cantei*bury, 
Westminster.  Anne,  duchess  of  Buckingham,  Walter  Blount,  knight,  lord  Mountjoye, 
Thomas  Buxliale,  master  of  the  king's  college  of  Foderyngey,  .John 
Geffrey,  clerk,  Oliver  Sutton,  Simon  Burton,  William  Marbury  .md  Ralph 
TykhuU,  executors  of  the  will  of  John,  late  earl  of  Wiltshire,  late  chief 
butler  of  England,  of  all  fines,  amercements,  issues,  debts,  accounts  and 
arrears  due  to  the  king  by  reason  of  the  said  office.  By  p.s. 


1473. 

Dec.  10. 
Westminster. 


1474. 

Jan.  10. 

Westminster. 


Jan.  12. 

Westminster. 


Jan.  12. 
Westminster. 


Jan.  10. 

Westminster. 


Membrane  17. 

Licence  for  the  alienation  in  mortm-iin  by  Peter  Courtnay,  the  dean,  and 
the  canons  of  the  king's  free  chapel  of  St.  Stephen  within  the  palace  of 
Westminster  of  a  messuage  and  13  acres  of  land  in  Esshetisford,  co.  Kent, 
parcel  of  their  manor  of  Esshetisford,  granted  l)y  Edwai'd  III.  to  the  former 
dean  and  canons  in  frank  almoin,  to  Thomas  Wylmot,  vicar  of  the  church 
of  Esshetisford,  and  his  successors,  reserving  to  the  dean  and  canons  17*. 
yearly  and  5.s-.  8f7.  by  the  name  of  a  relief  within  one  month  of  each 


voidance  of  the  vicarage,  with  power  of  distraint. 


By  p.s. 


Grant  to  the  king's  consort  Elizabeth,  queen  of  England,  of  the  free 
disposition  of  the  advowson  of  the  chantry  or  priory  of  Flaunsworde 
within  the  lordship  of  Goderige,  in  the  king's  hnnds  by  reason  of  the 
minority  of  George,  son  and  heir  of  John,  earl  of  Shrewsbury,  at  its  next 
voidance.  By  K. 

Protection,  with  clause  voliimus,  for  one  year,  for  Nicholas  Stanbury  of 
London,  clerk,  alias  chaplain,  going  to  Ireland  on  the  king's  service  in  the 
company  of  the  king's  brother  Geoi'ge,  duke  of  Clarence,  earl  of  Warwick 
and  Salisbury,  lord  of  Richmond,  great  chamberlain  of  England  and 
lieutenant  of  Ireland,  on  the  safe-custody,  defence,  and  victualling  of  that 
land.  By  bill  of  p.s. 

The  like  for  John  du  Pounte  alias  John  de  Ponte,  going  as  above  in  the 
company  of  the  king's  brother  George,  duke  of  Clarence,  lieutenant  of 
Ireland.  By  bill  of  p.s. 

Appointment  of  Thomas  Vaghan  as  chamberlain  of  the  king's  first- 
begotten  son  Edward,  prince  of  Wales,  duke  of  Cornwall  and  earl  of  Chester, 
who  is  of  so  young  and  tender  age  that  he  cannot  yet  guide  or  direct 
himself,  with  all  power  and  authority  belonging  to  the  office.  English. 

By  K. 

Grant  to  John  Hawme  of  the  office  of  the  custody  of  the  park  of  Penyard 
from  Michaelmas  last  during  the  minority  of  George,  earl  of  Shrewsbury, 


13  EDWARD  IV.— Part  II. 


415 


1474. 


Jan.  11. 
Westminster. 


Jan.  12. 
Westminster. 


Jan.  23. 

Westminster. 


1473. 

Dec.  22. 
WestmiDSter. 


May  17. 

We.stmiuster. 


1474. 
Feb.  1. 
Westminster. 


Membrane  17 — cont. 

son  and  heir  of  John,  late  earl  of  Shrewsbury,  with  fees  of  2d.  daily  from 
the  issues  of  the  lordship  of  Goderych.  By  p.s. 

Appointment  for  life  of  Richard  Bele,  for  hir,  good  service  in  the  office  of 
the  signet  for  the  space  of  eleven  years  and  in  embassies  beyond  the  seas,  as 
one  of  the  king's  clerks  in  the  office  of  the  privy  seal.  This  shall  not  be 
taken  as  a  precedent,  and  no  vacancy  shall  be  filled  until  the  clerks  there 
are  below  the  accustomed  number.  By  p.s. 

Presentation  of  Robert  Wedewe  to  one  of  the  two  chantries  in  the  low 
chapel  under  '  le  crcft'  in  Christ  Church,  Canterbury,  founded  for  the  soul 
of  Edward,  late  prince  of  Wales,  void  by  the  death  of  the  last  incumbent. 

Grant  to  Thomas  Stanley,  lord  of  Stanley,  steward  of  the  household, 
William  Grene,  clerk,  Morgan  Kydwelly  and  Richard  Morys  of  the  manor 
of  Holborne  in  the  suburbs  of  London,  in  the  king's  hands  by  virtue  of  an 
inquisition  taken  before  William  Hampton,  knight,  late  mayor  and 
escheator  in  the  city  and  suburbs  of  London,  on  3  April  last,  to  hold  from 
that  date  so  long  as  it  remains  in  the  king's  hands.  By  p.s. 

Whereas  by  an  act  in  the  Parliament  lately  held  at  AVestminster  it  is 
ordained  that  no  customer  or  controller  of  customs  or  searchei's,  controllers 
or  surveyors  of  the  scrutiny  or  their  clerks,  ministers,  deputies  or  factors 
may  buy  or  sell  merchandise,  meddle  with  the  freighting  of  ships,  occupy 
wharves  or  quays  or  hold  inns  or  taverns  or  act  as  factors  or  attorneys  for 
any  merchant  or  be  hosts  to  any  merchant  alien,  under  penalty  of  40/.  for 
each  offence,  and  by  letters  patent  the  king  lately  appointed  Thomas  Bellctour 
customer  or  collector  of  the  petty  custom  in  the  port  of  London  and  ports 
and  places  adjacent ;  the  king  hereby  pardons,  to  the  said  Thomas  all 
offences  committed  by  him  in  this  and  all  penalties,  and  grants  that  not* 
withstanding  his  office  he  may  buy  and  sell  merchandise  and  take  the  same 
to  foreign  parts  and  bring  back  merchandise  in  like  manner  from  foreign 
parts  to  England,  saving  to  tho  king  all  duo  customs  and  subsidies,  and 
provided  that  he  shall  not  take  any  wools  or  wool-fells  to  any  foreign  parts 
except  to  the  staple  of  Calais  or  beyond  the  mountains  by  the  straits  of 
Marrok.  By  K. 

Grant  for  life  to  the  king's  kinsman  Anthony,  earl  of  Ryver.s,  of  the  office 
of  chief  butler  of  England,  void  by  the  death  of  John,  late  ea;  l  of  Wiltshire, 
with  the  accustomed  fees  and  profits.  By  p.s. 

Appointment,  during  pleasure,  of  the  king's  clerk  and  chaplain  Edmund 
Conynesburgh,  doctor  of  decrees,  prothonotary  of  the  apostolic  see,  as  the 
king's  proctor  in  the  court  of  Rome,  with  fees  of  120/.  yearly  at  the  receipt 
of  the  Exchequer.  By  K. 


1473.  Mehdraisse  16. 

Dec.  23.  Mandate  to  the  escheator  in  the  county  of  Northampton  for  the 
Westminster,  pes^ityfiou  of  the  temporalities  of  the  priory  of  St.  Andrew,  Norhampton, 
of  the  Cluniac  order,  in  the  diocese  of  Lincoln,  to  Dan  Thomas  Sutbury, 
monk  of  the  monastery  of  St.  Saviour,  Bermondsey,  of  the  .same  order,  in 
the  diocose  of  Winchester,  whose  election  as  prior  Thomas  att  Well,  prior 
of  St.  Pancras,  Lewes,  of  the  same  order,  in  the  diocese  of  Chichester, 
vicar  and  commissary  of  Sir  John  do  Bouibonio,  abl)Ot  of  the  church  of 
Cluny,  has  confirmed  and  whose  fealty  the  king  has  taken. 


416 


CALENDAR  OF  PATENT  ROLLS. 


1473.  Membrane  16 — cont. 

The  like  to  the  escheatori  in  the  counties  named  : — 
Hertford. 

Warwick  and  Leicester. 
Lincoln. 

The  like  to  the  mayor  of  Northampton,  escheator  in  that  city. 
Writ      intendendo  in  pursuance  to  the  tenants. 

Dec.  23.  Ordinance  for  the  election  of  a  mayor  of  the  city  of  York  in  lieu  of  a 
Westminster,  like  ordinance  by  letters  patent  dated  30  July  (iic),  4  Edward  IV.  surrendered. 

The  existing  mayor  shall  on2Fcbruary  warn  their  Serjeants  at  mace  to  summon 
all  the  searchers  of  every  mistery  within  the  city  and  liberty  to  cause  all  the 
citizens  to  appear  personally  in  tlie  Guildhall  on  the  next  day,  the  feast  of 
St.  Blaise,  for  the  election  of  a  mayor  for  the  ensuing  year ;  and  the 
citizens  thus  assembled  shall  elect  an  alderman  of  the  city,  who  shall  not 
have  been  mayor  for  three  years  previously,  as  mayor  for  one  year  from 
16  February,  the  feast  of  St.  Julian  the  Virgin.  The  existing  mayor  shall 
remain  in  authority  until  the  tenth  hour  before  noon  on  that  day,  at  which 
time  the  newly  elected  mayor  shall  take  the  accustomed  oath.  And  if  the 
mayor  shall  die  or  depart  from  or  be  removed  from  office  for  any  cause 
within  the  year,  the  senior  alderman  on  the  next  day  shall  summon  to  a 
like  election  on  the  second  day  of  a  mayor  for  the  residue  of  the  year. 

By  p.s. 

Dec.  29.  Grant  to  the  king's  servant  Walter  Mathew  and  his  heirs  male  of  a 
Westminster,  messuage  and  100  acres  of  land  in  Takeleu  and  Chawrey,  co.  Essex,  late 
in  the  tenure  of  William  Banbury  and  all  other  lands,  rents  and  services 
late  of  the  latter  in  the  said  county,  in  the  king's  hands  by  his  forfeiture,  to 
hold  by  the  services  of  as  many  knights'  fees  and  as  many  other  rents  and 
services  as  they  were  held  by  before  4  March,  I  Edward  IV.  By  p.s. 

1474. 

Jan.  3.         Grant  for  life  from  Michaelmas  last  to  the  king's  servant  Thomas 
Westminster.  Markham,  esquire,  of  ail  the  rent  of  assize  of  free  and  customary  tenants 
and  customs  of  the  town  of  Wynchelsee,  and  all  other  profits  to  the  king's 
use  within  the  town.  By  K. 

1473. 

Dec.  29.  Grant,  for  200/.  paid  to  the  king,  to  Master  William  HatteclyfFe,  the 
Westminster,  king's  secretary,  of  the  custody  of  all  lordships,  manors,  lands,  rents, 
reversions,  services  and  other  possessions  late  of  Margaret  Hyde,  tenant  in 
chief,  late  the  wife  of  Richard  Hattefeld,  esquire,  deceased,  and  in  the 
king's  hands  by  their  death  or  the  death  of  any  anccistor  of  Edward,  now 
deceased,  their  son  and  heir,  or  Thomas,  their  son  and  heir,  to  Iiold  during 
the  minority  of  the  said  Thomas  with  his  custody  and  marriage  without 
disparagement,  and  so  from  heir  to  lieir.  By  bill  of  the  treasurer. 

1474. 

Jan.  8.         Presentation  of  Thomas  Bothe  to  the  parish  church  of  Wolstanton,  in 
Westminster,  the  diocese  of  Coventry  and  Lichfield,  void  by  the  death  of  the  last 
incumbent. 

Jan.  10.        Grant  for  life  to  John  Pikeryng,  knight,  of  four  messuages,  three  crofts, 
Westmiusttr.  G6  acres  of  land  and  8  acres  of  pasture  in  Ampilford,  co.  York,  late  of 
Thomas  Roos,  knight,  late  lord  of  Roos,  and  in  the  king's  hands  by  his 
forfeiture  by  reason  of  an  act  in  Parliament,  4  November,  1  Edward  IV,  to 
hold  by  the  service  of  \d.  yearly  at  Michaelmas.  By  K. 


1473. 

Dec.  13. 
WoBtminster. 


Membrane  15. 


Grant  to  Joan  late  the  wife  of  Thomas  Derham  and  William  Purchesse 
of  London,  '  mercer,'  of  the  custody  of  all  manors,  lands,  rents,  reversions. 


13  EDWAKD  IV.— Part  11. 


417 


1473. 


Nov.  29. 
AVc'stminster. 


Nov.  10. 
Westminster. 


Oct.  20. 

Westminster. 


Nov.  3. 
Westminster. 


Membrane  15 — cont. 

services  .ind  possessions  late  of  Tliomas  Derham  during  the  minority  of 
Tliomas  his  son  and  heir  and  the  custody  and  marriage  of  the  latter 
without  disparagement,  and  so  from  heir  to  heir,  finding  a  competent 
sustenance  for  the  heir  and  supporting  all  charges.  By  p  s. 

Presentation  of  John  Lancastro,  parson  of  the  parish  church  of 
Werkyngton,  in  the  archdeaconry  of  Richmond,  to  the  parish  church  of 
Sutton  on  Derwent,  in  the  diocese  of  York,  in  the  king's  gift  by  reason  of 
the  minority  of  William  Ingleby  son  and  heir  of  John  Ingleby,  tenant  in 
chief,  on  an  exchange  of  benefices  with  Thomas  Markham. 

Appointment,  during  pleasure,  of  the  earl  Ryviers,  brother  of  the  queen, 
as  governor  and  ruler  of  the  king's  first-begotten  son  the  prince  of  Wales, 
duke  of  Cornwall  and  earl  of  Chester,  that  he  may  be  virtuously,  cunningly 
and  knightly  brought  up.    English.  By  K. 

Licence  for  Maurice  Berklcv,  kuight,  .Tolin  Parre,  knight,  Thomas 
Seyntleger,  esquire,  Henry  More,  Hugh  Crikland,  perpetual  vicar  of  the 
parish  church  of  St.  Laurence,  Aulton,  co.  Southampton,  John  Twychener, 
William  Hakker,  Robert  Bailly,  Richard  Wyse,  John  Pygot,  Robert  Plecy 
and  Robert  Maye  or  their  heirs,  executors  or  .assigns  to  found  a  perpetual 
chantry  of  one  chaplain  to  celebrate  divine  service  daily  in  a  clinpel  lately 
built  by  John  Champfloure  in  the  said  parish  church  for  the  good  estate  of 
the  king,  his  consort  Elizabeth,  queen  of  England,  his  firstborn  son  Edward, 
prince  of  Wales,  duke  of  Cornwall  and  earl  of  Chester,  and  the  said  founders 
and  for  their  souls  after  death  and  the  soul  of  the  said  John  Champfloure 
and  to  do  other  works  of  jjicty  according  to  their  ordinance,  to  be  called 
'  Clian)plloures  Chaunterie '  in  the  church  of  Aulton,  and  to  grant  in 
mortmain  to  the  said  chaplain,  lands,  rents  and  other  possessions,  not  bold 
in  chief,  to  the  value  of  10/,  yearly,  for  his  sustenance  :md  the  support  of 
the  said  works.  By  u.s.  and  for  15/.  paid  in  the  hauaper. 

General  pardon  to  William  Pratt  late  of  London,  '  baker,'  alias  late  of 
London  in  the  county  of  JNIiddlesex,  '  yoman,'  of  all  offences  committed  by 
him  before  23  October  last.  By  p.s. 


MSMIiRAyE  14. 

Dec.  4.  Licence  for  the  king's  kinsfolk  Alice,  duchess  of  Suffolk,  and  Jolui,  duke 
Westmiustcr.  of  Suffolk,  Iier  son,  and  Richard  Fowler,  chancellor  of  the  duchy  of 
LiincMster,  and  John  Broughton,  esquire,  to  found  a  fraternity  or  gild  of 
two  guardians  and  brethren  and  sisters  of  the  parishioners  of  the  parish 
of  Leighton  Bosard,  co.  Bedford,  and  others  who  may  wish  to  be  of  the 
gild  in  the  parish  church  of  Leigton  Bosard.  The  guardians,  brethren 
and  sisters  shall  augment  the  gild  whenever  they  think  fit  and  every  year 
on  the  feast  of  Holy  Trinity  they  shall  elect  two  guardians  from  among 
themselves  for  the  business  and  governance  of  the  gild,  and  they  shall  form 
one  corporate  body  and  shall  have  perpetual  succession  and  a  common  se.al 
and  power  to  i)lead  and  be  impleaded,  and  shall  i)e  called  '  the  fraternity 
'  of  the  Body  of  our  Lord  Jcsu.';  Christ  in  the  parish  church  of  Leighton 
'  Bosard.'  And  grant  to  them  of  licence  to  acquire  in  mortmain  after 
inquisition  lands,  tenements  and  rents,  not  held  in  chief,  to  thcv  value  of  10 
marks  yearly  for  the  sustenance  of  ;i  chaplain  to  celebrate  divine  service 
daily  according  to  their  ordinance  in  the  said  church  for  the  good  estate 
of  the  king  and  his  consort  Elizabeth,  queen  of  England,  and  his  firstborn 
son  Edward,  prince  of  Wales,  duke  of  Cornwall  and  earl  of  Chester,  and 
the  said  duchess,  duke,  Richard  and  John  and  the  brethren  and  sisters  of  the 
gild  and  for  their  souls  after  death. 

By  p.s.  and  for  35  marks  paid  in  the  hanaper. 

y  96186.  D  D 


418  CALENDAR  OF  PATENT  EOLLS. 


1473. 

Dec.  7. 
Westminster. 


Dec.  16. 
Westminster. 


Dec.  17. 
Westminster. 


Dec.  16. 

Westminster. 


Dec.  6. 

Westminster. 


Dec.  17. 

Westminster. 


Dec.  16. 

Westminster. 


Dec.  22. 

Westminster. 


Membrane  14 — cont. 

Commission  to  John  Fortescu,  one  of  the  esquires  of  the  body,  sheriff  of 
Cornwall,  John  Cfokker,  knight,  and  Henry  Bodrugan,  esquire,  of  full 
power  and  authority  to  reduce  St.  Michael's  Mount,  co.  Cornwall,  to  the 
king's  obedience  and  place  it  under  secure  custody  and  governance  and 
conquer  John,  late  earl  of  Oxford,  and  others  who  have  entered  the  mount 
and  hold  it  as  a  refuge  and  make  excursions  from  thence  to  the  adjoining 
parts,  and  to  promise  pardon  to  any  rebels  within  the  mount  who  may  be 
■willing  to  submit  and  take  an  oath  of  fealty,  with  the  exception  of  the  said 
earl,  William  Beaumond,  late  lord  Bardolf,  knight,  and  George  Veer,  Thomas 
Veer  and  Richard  Veer,  brothers  of  the  earl.  By  p.s. 

Appointment,  until  15  June,  of  Thomas  Lyncbe,  yeoman,  purveyor  of 
the  buyer  of  the  household,  to  take  beeves,  muttons,  calves,  pigs,  salt-water 
and  sweet-water  fish  and  other  necessaries  for  the  expenses  of  the  household. 

By  bill  of  the  steward  of  the  household. 

Presentation  of  Robert  Bothe  to  the  parish  church  of  St,  Matthew  in  the 
town  of  Ipswich,  in  the  diocese  of  Norwich,  void  by  the  death  of  the  last 
incumbent. 

Grant  to  Thomas  Asshby,  clerk,  of  the  custody  of  the  hospital  of  St.  Mary, 
Osprenge,  in  lieu  of  a  like  grant  of  the  same  to  the  king's  clerk  Stephen 
Close  by  letters  patent  dated  2  December,  12  Edward  IV.  surrendered. 

Mandate  in  pursuance  to  John  Close,  clerk,  to  put  the  said  Thomas  in 
possession. 

Grant  to  the  king's  servant  Thomas  Wortley,  esquire,  of  the  office  of 
steward  of  Halamshyre,  co.  York,  and  the  lordship  of  Worshope,  co. 
Nottingham,  during  the  minority  of  the  king's  kinsman  George,  earl  of 
Shrewsbury,  receiving  wages  of  20  marks  yearly  from  the  issues  of  the  said 
lordships  at  the  hands  of  the  receiver.  By  p.s. 

Signification  to  Thomas,  prior  of  St.  Pancras,  Lewes,  of  the  Cluniac 
order,  in  the  diocese  of  Chichester,  vicar  and  commissary  in  England  of  the 
abbot  of  Cluny,  of  the  royal  assent  to  the  election  of  Dan  Thomas  Sutbury, 
monk  of  the  monastery  of  St.  Saviour,  Bermondesey,  as  prior  of  the  house 
of  St.  Andrew,  Northampton. 

Grant  to  William  Huse  of  the  next  nomination  to  the  church  of  Undalle, 
which  nomination  Richard  Aschtone,  late  abbot,  and  the  convent  of  Peter- 
borough granted  to  the  king.  By  K. 

Grant  to  John  Glemeham,  esquire,  and  his  heirs  and  assigns  of  the 
manor  of  Wylbey  and  8  acres  of  land  in  Wylbey,  and  the  advowson  of  the 
church  of  Wylbey,  co.  Suffolk,  with  courts  leet,  liberties,  franchises  and 
other  commodities,  late  of  William  Beamount,  knight,  and  in  the  king's 
hands  by  his  forfeiture,  to  hold  by  the  services  of  as  many  knight's  fees  and 
as  many  other  rents  and  services  as  they  were  held  by  before  4  March, 
1  Edward  IV.  By  p.s. 


Dec.  28. 
Westminster. 


General  pardon  to  John  Leynham  alias  Plomer,  knight. 


By  p.s. 


Grant  for  life  to  Robert  Constable  of  Flamburgh,  knight,  of  the  manor  or 
lordship  of  Howsom,  co.  York,  with  courts,  rents  and  services  of  free 
tenants,  tenants  at  will  and  bondmen  there,  knight's  fees,  advowsons  and 
other  appurtenances,  in  the  king's  liands  by  reason  of  an  act  in  Parliament 
at  Westminster,  4  November,  1  Edward  IV,  against  Thomas  Roos,  knight, 
late  lord  of  Roos,  to  hold  by  the  services  of  as  many  knight's  fees  and  as 
many  other  rents  and  services  as  they  were  held  by  before  4  March, 
1  Edward  IV.  By  p.s. 


13  EDWARD  IV.— Part  II. 


419 


1474. 
Feb.  11, 
Westminster. 


Feb.  8. 

Westminster. 


Feb.  12. 

Westminster. 


Feb.  12. 

Westminster. 

Feb.  10. 
Westminster. 


Jan.  21. 
Westminster. 


Membrane  13. 

Licence,  for  71.  paid  in  the  hanaper,  for  George  Darell,  knight,  to  grant 
the  manor  of  Fytelton  and  the  advowson  of  the  church  of  Fitelton, 
CO.  Wilts,  and  the  manor  of  Balston  alias  Balateston,  co.  Berks,  held  in 
chief,  to  the  king's  kinsman  Thomas,  cardinal  archbishop  of  Canterbury, 
John,  abbot  of  the  monastery  of  St.  Aldelm,  Malmesbury,  Joha 
Wiloughby,  knight,  Eichard  Haute,  esquire,  John  Phelippes,  clerk,  John 
Merniyn  of  Marleburgh  and  Richard  Chapeleyn  and  their  heirs  and 
assigns. 

Grant  to  the  king's  servant  John  Boston,  one  of  the  yeoman  of  the 
crown  and  ushers  of  the  king's  cliamher,  of  the  custody  of  all  the  lands 
and  goods  of  Richard  Preston,  '  gentilman,'  who  is  an  idiot,  as  appears  by 
an  inquisition  returned  into  the  Exchequer,  so  long  us  the  same  remain  iu 
the  king's  hands,  finding  a  competent  sustenance  for  the  said  Richard  and 
supporting  all  charges.  By  K. 

Grant  to  John  Eyre  of  the  office  of  parker  of  the  park  of  Worsope, 
CO.  Nottingham,  paicel  of  the  possessions  of  John,  late  earl  of  Shrewsbury, 
tenant  in  chief,  during  the  minority  of  George,  son  and  heir  of  the  said 
earl,  receiving  4d.  daily  from  the  issues  of  the  lordship  of  Worsope,  with 
all  other  profits.  By  p.s. 

Grant  to  Robert  Eyre,  esquire,  of  IOO5.  yearly  during  the  minority  of 
George,  son  and  heir  of  John,  late  earl  of  Shrewsbury,  from  the  issues  of 
the  king's  lordship  of  Ilalomshire,  co.  York.  By  p.s. 

Grant  to  the  king's  consort  Elizabeth,  queen  of  England,  and  her  heirs 
and  assigns  of  the  manors  or  lordships  of  Cradeley  and  Hagley  with  their 
members,  co.  Worcester,  late  of  James,  carl  of  Wiltshire,  and  two  parts  of 
the  same  and  the  reversion  of  the  third  part  which  Margaret,  late  the  Avife 
of  Fulk  Stafford,  esquire,  lately  held,  whensoever  it  shall  come  to  the  king, 
to  hold  by  fealty  only  without  rendering  any  account,  and  all  farms  and 
rents  due  to  the  king  from  the  same  from  the  death  of  Thomas  Proute, 
esquire.  By  K. 

Grant  to  John  Pylkyngton,  one  of  the  knights  of  the  body,  and  the 
heirs  male  of  his  body  of  the  manor  of  Turneliamhall  with  its  members, 
two  parts  of  the  manor  of  Thorneton  in  Craven  and  six  messuages,  200  acres 
of  land,  10  acres  of  meadow  and  50  acres  of  pasture  in  Yolton,  co.  York, 
late  of  Thomas,  lord  Roos,  and  in  the  king's  hands  by  reason  of  an  act  in 
Parliament  at  Westminster,  4  November,  1  Edward  IV.  by  pretext  of 
which  act  the  said  Thomas  was  convicted  of  high  treason,  the  reversion 
of  the  third  part  of  the  said  manor  of  Thorneton  and  the  manor  of  Lynton 
on  Owse,  co.  York,  belonging  to  the  king  as  above,  on  the  death  of 
Marjory  late  the  wife  of  John  Roos,  knight,  late  lord  Roos,  the  manor  of 
Great  Hale  alias  Westhalle  alias  Hole,  co.  Lincoln,  late  of  Thomas 
Claymond  and  in  the  king's  hands  by  reason  of  the  said  act,  an  inn  or 
tenement  and  four  shops  adjoining  it  in  the  parish  of  St.  Botolph  iu  the 
ward  of  Aldrichgate,  London,  which  Gilbert  Parre,  esquire,  lately  had  of 
the  giant  of  Henry  VI.  by  letters  patent,  the  manor  of  Evesgrene  with  its 
members,  two  messuages,  three  cottages  and  55  acres  of  land  in  Gosenor,  a 
messuage,  two  cottages  and  73  acres  of  land  in  Whitvngham,  a  tenement  and 
20  acres  of  land  in  Hacunsawe  and  4  acres  of  land  in  Dilworth,  co.  Lancaster, 
and  the  manors  of  Rothemell  and  Brayton,  100  acres  of  land  and  pasture  in 
Barley  by  Selby  and  four  cottages  in  Selby,  co.  York,  late  of  John  Caterall 
late  of  Selby,  esquire,  and  in  the  king's  bunds  by  reason  of  the  said  act,  and 
the  manors  of  Turvy,  Balscadan  and  Russhe,  co.  Dublin,  late  parcel  of  the 
hereditament  of  James  Botiller,  late  earl  of  Wiltshire,  and  in  the  king's 
hands  by  reason  of  the  said  act  ;  and  also  the  manors  of  Maltby  and 
Hoton,  CO.  York,  and  the  third  part  of  the  manor  or  lordship  of  Staveley 

D  D  2 


420 


CALENDAR  OF  PATENT  ROLLS. 


1474.  Membrane  13 — cont. 

alias  Staneley,  co.  Derby,  late  of  John,  late  lord  Clifford,  and  in  the 
king's  hands  by  reason  of  the  said  act,  in  recompence  of  the  manors  of 
Grymesthorpe,  Edenham,  Aylesthorpe  and  Southorpe,  co.  Lincoln,  which 
he  formerly  had  of  the  king's  grant  and  which  had  been  taken  into  the 
king's  hands  by  an  act  of  resumption  ;  to  hold  with  all  members,  knight's 
fees,  advowiious,  wards,  marriages,  reliefs,  escheats,  courts  leet,  fairs,  markets, 
chaces,  warrens,  parks,  woods,  fisheries,  stews,  liberties,  franchises  and  other 
profits  by  the  service  of  one  knight's  fee,  with  all  issues  from  4  March, 
]  Edward  IV.  By  K. 

Feb.  12.        Appointment  of  John  Fogge,  knight,  and  John  Fogge,  esquire,  to 
Westminster,  take  workmen  for  the  king's  mines  within  the  counties  of  Devon  and 
Cornwall. 


Jan.  28. 

Westminster. 


Jan.  4. 

Westminster. 


Feb.  8. 

Westminster. 


1473. 

Nov.  20. 
Westminster. 


Membrane  12. 

Licence  for  Brian  Roucliff,  third  baron  of  the  Exchequer,  and  John 
Marchall,  citizen  and  mercer  of  London,  or  their  heirs  and  executors  to 
found  a  perpetual  chantry  of  one  chaplain  and  preacher  of  the  word  of 
God  to  celebrate  divine  service  at  the  altar  in  the  chapel  of  St.  Mary  in 
the  parish  church  of  Ware,  co.  Hertford,  in  honour  of  the  said  Virgin 
and  St.  Thomas  the  Martyr,  for  the  good  estate  of  the  king  and 
bis  consort  Elizabeth,  queen  of  England,  his  first-born  son  Edward, 
prince  of  Wales,  and  his  heirs  and  successors,  kings  of  England,  and  the 
said  Brian  and  John  and  for  their  souls  and  the  soul  of  Master  William 
Grannger  after  death  and  the  souls  of  Helen  Bramble  alias  Warbulton, 
William  Bramble  and  Richard  Warbulton  her  late  husbands,  William 
Bramble  her  son  and  John  Cook  and  Marjory  her  parents,  to  be  called 
the  chantry  of  Helen  Bramble,  and  for  them  to  grant  in  mortmain  to  the 
said  chaplain  lands,  tenements,  rents,  services  and  possessions,  not  held 
in  chief,  to  the  yearly  value  of  lOZ. 

By  p.s.  and  for  40Z.  paid  in  the  hauaper. 

Pardon  to  Robert  Wyghthyll  late  of  Whyghthyll,  co.  Oxford,  '  gen  I  il- 
man,'  of  his  outlawry  in  the  county  of  Oxford  for  not  appearing  before  the 
king  when  sued  with  Richard  Mauncell  late  of  Wyghthill,  '  gentilman,' 
and  Elizabeth  his  wife  and  John  Sn:yth  late  of  Walgrave,  co.  Northampton, 
'  chapman,'  to  answer  John  Samwell  on  a  charge  of  having  forged  a 
deed  concerning  lands  of  the  latter  in  Olney,  Weston,  Waryngton  and 
Scheryngton,  co.  Buckingham,  and  published  it  at  Wyghthyll,  he  having 
surrended  to  tiie  Marshalsea  prison,  as  Thomas  Billyng,  chief  justice  of  the 
King's  Bench,  has  certified. 

Grant  for  life,  from  3  August  last,  to  Thomas  Marsburgh  of  the  oflnce  of 
surveyor  of  the  king's  bowmakers  Avithin  the  Tower  of  London,  the  office 
of  keeper  of  the  king's  bows  within  the  Tower  and  the  olBce  of  keeping, 
making  and  providing  the  king's  bows  in  the  said  Tower  and  the  town  of 
Calais,  the  land  of  Ireland  and  elsewhere  and  cords  for  them,  receiving  6rf. 
daily  from  the  issues  of  the  counties  of  Surrey  and  Sussex,  as  granted  to 
Robert  Bridford,  late  holder  of  the  office,  by  Richard  II.  by  letters  patent, 
and  a  mansion  within  the  Tower  with  a  garden  adjoining  situated  between 
the  tower  called  '  the  rounde  toure  of  the  artrie  '  on  the  west  and  the  tower 
called  '  the  kinge's  loging '  on  the  east,  with  a  livery  of  the  suit  of  yeomen  of 
the  chamber  yearly  at  Christmas  at  the  great  wardrobe ;  in  lieu  of  a 
like  grant  to  Nicholas  Wydower  by  letters  patent  dated  20  November, 
6  Edward  IV.  surrendered.  By  p,s. 

Grant  to  Robert  Swynshed  of  the  offices  of  bailiff  of  the  lordship  of 
Clieswarden,  co.  Salop,  and  parker  within  the  same  lordship  during  the 


13  EDWARD  IV.— Part  II. 


421 


1473. 


Nov.  28. 

WcstmiDster. 


1474. 

Feb.  14. 

■\Vestminstcr. 

Feb.  If). 

Westminster. 


Feb.  13. 
Westminster. 


Feb.  16. 

Westminster. 

Jan.  20. 

Westminster. 

Feb.  20. 

Westminster. 


Membrane  12 — cont. 
minority  of  George,  earl  of  Shrewsbury,  witli  the  accustomed  fees  from  the 
issues  of  the  lordship  and  all  other  profits.  By  p.s. 

Grant  to  the  said  Kobert  Swyneshed  of  the  office  of  bailiti'of  the  town 
and  lordship  of  Bampton,  co.  Oxford,  in  the  king's  hands  by  tlie  death  of 
Elizabeth,  late  countess  ol'  JSlnew.sbury,  during  tlie  nunority  of  George,  earl 
of  Shrewsbury,  son  and  lieir  of  John,  late  earl  of  Shrewsbury,  with  the 
accustomed  fees.  By  p.s. 

Grant  for  life  to  the  king's  chaplain  William  Eure,  archdeacon  of 
Salisbury,  of  the  custody  of  the  hospital  of  St.  Leonard  within  the  walls  of 
tlio  city  of  York.  By  K. 

Grant  to  Eicliaid  Byrlcy  of  the  custod}'  of  the  chace  of  Hallfeld  within 
the  parish  of  Shefeld,  co.  York,  during  the  minority  of  George,  son  and 
heir  John,  late  earl  of  Sln-ewsbury,  witii  the  accustomed  fees  and  other 
profits,  as  Thomas  Chambre,  late  keeper,  or  anyone  else  had.  By  p.s. 

Pardon  to  John  Curson,  esquire,  late  sheriff  of  Nottingham  and  Derby, 
and  Edmund  Holt,  one  of  tlie  yeomen  of  the  crown,  of  all  offences  com- 
mitted by  ihcui  before  11  February  and  all  escapes  of  felons  and  other 
prisoners.  By  p.s. 

General  pardon  to  Guminer  Uerardson  alias  Joyncv  of  the  town  of  Calais, 
'joyner.'  By  p.s. 

Grant,  during  good  behaviour,  to  John  Serle,  citizen  of  London,  of  this 
office  of  the  king's  painter,  with  the  accustomed  profits.  By  p.s. 

A|>pointment  of  .Jolm  J5(!aufitz  to  the  olfice  of  receiver  of  the  castles, 
lordships,  manors  and  lands  lale  of  Alesia,  dame  Lo\ell,  Deyncourt  and 
Gray,  deceased,  during  tlie  minority  of  Francis,  lord  Lovell,  her  kinsman 
and  heir,  receiving  the  accustomed  fees.  By  bill  of  the  treasurer. 

Appointment  of  Thomas  Aletkaltf  to  the  office  of  auditor  of  the  acc(mnts 
of  all  receivers,  bailiffs,  reeves,  collectors  and  other  ministers  of  the  said 
castles,  lordships,  manors  and  lands  during  the  the  said  minority,  receiving 
the  accustomed  fees.  By  bill  of  the  treasurer. 


Membrane  1 1 . 

Feb.  17.  Licence  for  William  Plompton,  knight,  and  liis  heirs  to  construct  walls 
Westminster,  and  towers  around  and  witiiin  iiis  manor  of  Plomjiton,  co.  York,  and  to 
crenellato  the  same,  and  to  enclose  and  impark  all  his  lands,  meadows, 
feedings,  pastures,  woods  and  other  tenements  in  Plompton,  and  grant  to 
them  of  free  warren  and  free  chase  in  the  above,  so  tiuit  no  one  shall  enter 
therein  to  hunt  without  licence  uuder  forfeiture  of  lO/.j  although  the  above 
are  within  the  metes  of  the  king's  forest  or  chace  of  Kuaresburgli,  co.  Y'ork. 

By  p.s. 

Feb.  11.  Grant  to  Anthony  Widevile,  earl  Ryver.s,  and  his  heirs  male  of  the  body 
Westminster,  of  Richard  Widevile,  late  earl  Ryvers,  his  father,  of  all  manors,  lauds,  rents, 
reversions,  services,  possessions,  hereditaments  and  emoluments  in  the 
counties  of  Cornwall,  Worcesier,  Northampton.  Bedford,  lissex,  Hereford 
and  Kent  belonging  to  the  king  by  reason  of  the  forfeiture  of  AVilliam 
Vawes  alias  Vaux,  attainted  of  divers  treasons  in  Parliament  at  Westminster, 
1  Edward  IV.  with  knights'  fees,  advowsons,  fiuis,  markets,  courts  leet, 
views  of  frank  pledge,  liberties,  warrens  and  commodities  ;  and  the  reversion 
of  the  manors  of  Pcnpeli,  Denardake  and  Lanyheyrou,  co.  Coruwall,  and 
all  lands,  rents,  services,  knights'  fees,  advowsons,  courts  leet,  views  of 
frank-pledge,  warrens  and  other  liberties  belonging  to  the  same,  late  of  the 
said  William  Faux  alias  Vaux,  on  the  death  of  Alured  Coruborough,  usher 


422 


CALENDAR  OF  PATENT  ROLLS. 


1474.  Membrane  11 — cont. 

of  the  king's  chamber,  to  whom  the  same  were  granted  by  letters  patent 
dated  28  Janiiary,  2  Edward  IV. ;  and  grant  to  him  of  all  issues  of  the 
premises  from  the  death  of  Margaret  Luce.  By  p.s. 

Grant  to  the  king's  knight  Anthony  Widevile,  earl  Riviers,  and  the 
heirs  male  of  his  body  of  the  manors  or  lordships  of  Wyrmyngey  and 
Scroweteby,  co.  Norfolk,  and  the  manor  of  Welbey,  co.  Suffolk,  with 
knights'  fees,  advowsons,  markets,  fairs,  leets,  views  of  frank-pledge, 
liberties,  franchises  and  other  commodities,  in  the  king's  hands  by  reason  of 
an  act  in  Parliament  at  Westminster,  4  March  (sic),  1  Edward  IV.  to  hold 
by  the  services  of  as  many  knights'  fees  and  as  many  other  rents  and 
services  as  they  were  held  by  before  4  March,  1  Edward  IV.  By  p.s. 

Feb.  16.  Grant  to  Thomas,  bishop  of  Lincoln,  that  he  and  his  successors  may  have 
Westminster,  two  fairs  yearly  within  the  town  and  territory  of  Louth,  co.  Lincoln,  one  on 
the  third  Sunday  after  Easter  and  for  eight  days  following  and  the  other  on 
the  feast  of  St.  Martin  in  the  Winter  and  the  vigil  of  the  feast  and  the 
eight  days  following,  and  hold  a  court  of  pie-powder,  and  have  all  liberties, 
free  customs,  fines,  issues  and  amercements,  provided  that  it  be  not  to  the 
barm  of  neighbouring  fairs.  By  p.s. 

Feb.  26.  Grant  to  Peter  Sans  ofVenesse  and  John  Sans  of  Venesse  of  an  annuity 
Westminster,  of  20/.  from  26  August,  11  Edward  IV.  from  the  customs  and  subsidies  of 
wools,  hides  and  wool-feJls,  the  petty  custom  and  the  subsidy  of  tonnage 
and  poundage  in  the  port  of  London  and  ports  and  places  adjacent  so  long 
as  the  peace  between  the  king  and  the  five  provinces  of  Spain  on  the  sea 
shall  continue,  and  also  a  sum  of  20/.  from  the  same  ;  in  lieu  of  a  like 
grant  to  them  by  letters  patent  of  that  date,  surrendered,  of  which  they 
have  received  no  benefit.  By  p.s. 

Grant  to  Domon  John  Dandia,  esquire  of  the  realm  of  Spain,  of  an 
annuity  of  20/.  from  the  said  26  August  from  the  customs  and  sul)sidies  in 
the  port  of  Bristol  so  long  as  the  said  peace  shall  continue ;  in  lieu  of  a 
like  grant  to  him  by  letters  patent  of  that  date,  surrendered,  of  which  he 
has  received  no  benefit.  By  p.s. 

Membrane  10. 

Jan.  29.  Exemplification,  at  the  request  of  Anthony  Wydevill,  lord  of  Scales  and 
Westminster.  Nucellis,  of  the  tenour  of  the  enrolment  of  letters  patent  dated  10 
{sic)  November,  7  Edward  IV.  {see  p.  41),  granting  to  him  for  life  the 
custody  to  the  king's  castle  and  town  of  Porchestre  and  forest  and  warren 
there  and  the  supervision  and  governance  of  the  king's  town  of  Portesmouthe 
and  his  place  there.  These  letters  have  been  casually  lost,  as  Andrew 
Dymmok  has  taken  oath  in  Chancery,  and  will  be  surrendered  if  found. 

Feb.  13.  Exemplification,  at  the  request  of  John  Eldyrgate,  '  gentilman,' of  the 
Westminster,  tenour  of  the  enrolment  of  letters  patent  dated  14  September,  5  Edward  IV. 

{^French  Roll,  5  Edward  IV.  in.  17,]  granting  licence  for  him  to  ship  812 
pieces  of  tin  called  '  blokkes  '  in  the  ports  of  London  and  Suthampton  and 
take  them  to  any  parts  without  the  realm  quit  of  customs  and  subsidies. 
These  letters  have  been  casually  lost,  as  Richard  Baker  has  taken  oath  in 
Chancery,  and  will  be  surrendered  if  found. 

Feb.  17.  General  pardon  to  Agnes  LovcU  late  of  Westminster,  co.  Middlesex, 
Westminster.  '  gentilwoman,'  alias  late  of  London,  alias  late  of  Suthwerk,  co.  Surrey. 

By  p.s. 

Feb.  16.        Appointment  for  life  of  the  king's  councillors  Richard  Quatermayns, 
Westminster,  esquire,  and  Richard  Fowler,  chancellor  of  the  duchy  of  Lancaster,  as 
stewards  or  lieutenants  of  the  king's  lordships  and  manors  of  Wodestok, 
Hamburgh,  Stonfeld  and  Wotton  with  the  hundred  of  Wotton  and  all 


13  EDWARD  IV.— Part  II. 


423 


1474. 


Feb.  10. 
Westminster. 


Feb.  20. 
Westminster. 


Membrane  10 — cont. 

members  of  the  same,  co.  Oxford,  receiving  the  accustomed  fees  from  the 
issues  of  the  premises.  By  p.s. 

Grant  to  William  Parre  and  John  Parre,  knights,  and  the  heirs  male  of 
their  bodies  of  the  castles,  manors  and  lordships  of  Pendragon,  Burgh, 
Appilby,  Burghara,  Mallarstrange  and  Whynfell,  the  manor  and  lordship  of 
Kerknbystephen,  and  the  town  of  Wynton  with  their  members,  co.  West- 
moreland, with  knights' fees,  advowsons  and  services  of  free  tenants,  to 
hold  by  the  services  of  as  many  knights'  fees  and  as  many  other  rents  and 
services  as  they  were  held  by  before  4  March,  1  Edward  IV.  By  p.s. 

Grant  for  life  to  Christopher  Moresby,  knight,  of  the  custody  of  the 
passage  of  the  water  of  Sulwath  in  the  march  of  Scotland  with  the 
accustomed  fees.  By  p.s. 


Membrane  9. 

Feb.  23.        Grant  to  Elizabeth  Barney,  widow,  born  in  the  parts  of  Anjoii,  and  the 
Westminster,  heirs  of  her  body  of  letters  of  denization  ;  and  pardon  to  her  of  all  entries 
by  her  into  lands  without  licence,  and  all  offences  committed  by  her. 

By  p.s.  and  for  40*.  paid  in  the  hanaper. 


1473.  Membrane  8. 

June  5.  Grant  to  the  king's  kinsman  Anthony,  earl  Rivers,  lord  of  Scales  and 
Westminster.  Nucelles,  and  the  heirs  male  of  his  body  of  the  reversion  of  the  manors  of 
Uriyngton,  Wragby  and  Estryngton,  co.  Lincoln,  the  manors  of  Marsop  (sic) 
and  Ekeryng  with  the  advowsons  of  the  churches  of  Warsop  and  Ekeryng, 
CO.  Nottingham,  the  manor  of  Seton,  co.  York,  an  annuity,  fee- farm  or 
yearly  rent  of  20/.  from  the  priory  of  Wartre  from  lands  in  Wartre,  co.  York, 
and  the  manor  of  Estbourne,  co.  Sus.scx,  with  knights'  fees,  advowsons, 
courts  leet,  views  of  frank-pledge,  liberties,  franchises,  warrens  and  all  other 
profits,  on  the  death  of  Philippa  late  the  wife  of  Tiiomas  Wyngefelde, 
esquire,  to  whom  the  same  were  granted  by  letters  patent  dated  23  January, 
8  Edward  IV.  By  p.s. 

Membrane  7. 

July  7.  Inspeximns  and  confirmation  to  the  prior  and  convent  of  Royston  cf 
Westminster,  letters  patent  dated  10  April,  1  Richard  II.  inspecting  and  confirming  a 
charter  dated  at  Westminster,  15  October,  IS  Edward  111.  [Charter  Roll, 
18  Edivard  III.  No.  7,]  inspecting  and  confirming  a  cliarter  dated  at 
Westminster,  14  February,  5G  Henry  III.  [Charter  Roll,  5G  Henry  III. 
m.  5,]  inspecting  and  confirming  a  charter  dated  18  November, 
1  Richard  I.  For  2  marks  paid  in  the  hanaper. 

Nov.  24.        Licence  for  John  Harocourte,  son  and  heir  of  Robert  Harecourte,  knight, 
Westminster,  deceased,  tenant  in  chief,  to  enter  freely  into  all  towns,  lordships,  manors, 
lands  and  other  possessions  in  England  of  which  his  father  oi-  Joan  his 
mother  was  seised  and  which  should  descend  to  him  as  their  heir,  with  all 
issues  from  the  times  of  their  death.  By  K. 


Membrane  6. 

Dec.  21.        Inspexivius  and  confirmation  to  John  Bourgcliier,  knight,  and  Elizabeth 
Westminster.  Ids  Avife,  kinswoman  and  heiress  of  Roger  de  Quency,  earl  of  Winchester, 
and  their  heirs  of  the  following  : — 

1.  A  charter  dated  at  Morton,  24  January,  20  Henry  III.  [Charter  Roll, 
20  Henry  III.  m.  8,]  inspecting  and  confirming  to  the  said  earl  and 
his  heirs  a  charter  dated  19  July,  1  John. 


424 


CALENDAR  OF  PATENT  ROLLS. 


1474. 

Jan.  29. 

Westmiuster. 


1473.  Membrane  6 — cont. 

2.  Letters  patent  dated  6  August,  36  Heury  III.  granting  to  the  said 

earl  and  his  heirs  the  liberties  named  in  the  said  charter. 

3.  A  charter  dated  at  the  Tower  of  London,  12  March,  12  Edward 

III.  granting  to  Henry  de  Ferariis  and  his  heirs  markets  and 
fairs  at  Groby,  co.  Leicester,  and  Slebbyngge  and  Wodeham 
Ferers,  co.  Essex.    [Charter  Roll,  12  Edward  III.  No.  36.] 

For  4  marks  paid  in  the  hanaper. 

Grant  in  frank  almoin  to  William  Dudley,  the  dean  or  warden,  and  the 
canons  of  the  king's  free  chapel  of  St.  Mary  the  Virgin,  St.  George  the 
Martyr  and  St.  Edward  the  Confessor  within  the  king's  castle  of  Wyndesore 
of  the  manor  or  alien  priory  of  Monkelane,  co.  Hereford,  with  all  lands, 
rents,  services,  knights'  fees,  advowsons,  views  of  frank-pledge,  courts,  leets, 
liberties,  privileges,  franchises,  pensions,  portions,  annuities,  fee-farms, 
apports  and  other  appurtenances,  which  Roland  Lenthale,  knight,  and 
Margaret  his  wife  and  others  lately  had  of  the  grant  of  Henry  V.  and  which 
Thomas  Monyngton,  esquire,  late  sheriff  of  the  county,  took  into  the  king's 
hands.  By  p.s. 

Jan.  29.  Exemplification,  at  the  request  of  the  king's  kinsman  Anthony  Wydevile, 
Westminster,  knight,  lord  of  Scales  and  Nusels,  of  the  fenour  of  the  enrolment  of  letters 
patent  dated  10  November,  6  Edward  IV.  granting  to  him  the  Isle  of 
Wyght  and  divers  possessions  Avithin  the  same.  These  letters  have  been 
lost  by  accident,  as  Andrew  Dynimok  has  taken  oath  in  Chancery,  and  will 
be  surrendered  if  found. 


Membrane  5. 

March  3.  General  pardon  to  Richard  Roos  late  of  Holt,  co.  Norfolk,  esquire.  By  K. 
Westminster. 

Jan.  20.  Licence  for  Peter  Busshoji,  William  Large  and  Thomas  Langtofte,  free 
Westminster,  men  of  the  mistery  of  '  peauterers  '  of  the  city  of  London,  to  found  a 
fraternity  or  perpetual  gild  of  a  master,,  two  Avardens  and  the  commonalty 
of  the  free  men  of  the  said  mistery  within  the  city  and  suburbs  of  London 
and  brethren  and  sisters,  free  men  of  the  mistery  or  others,  who  may 
wish  to  be  of  the  gild  within  the  city.  The  master,  Avardens  and 
commonalty  shall  form  one  corporate  body  Avith  poAver  of  acquiring  lands, 
rents,  services  and  other  possessions,  and  shall  have  psrpetual  succession 
and  a  common  seal  and  power  of  pleading  and  being  impleaded,  and  the  free 
men  of  the  mistery  Avhensoever  they  wish  shall  elect  a  master  and  two 
guardians  from  among  themselves.  The  master  and  Avardeus  shall  have 
full  authority  to  govern  the  commonalty  and  mistery  and  all  men  occupying 
the  same  and  their  servants,  stufi's,  Avorks  and  merchandise  Avithin  the  city 
and  suburbs  and  to  make  ordinances  for  the  governance  of  the  mistery;  and 
they  shall  have  scrutiny  and  governance  of  all  Avorks  and  merchandise  per- 
taining to  the  mistery  exposed  for  sale  within  the  city  and  suburbs  and  in 
other  places  throughout  the  realm,  with  poAver  to  seize  such  as  may  be 
defective,  one  moiety  of  the  forfeiture  belonging  to  the  king  and  the  other 
moiety  to  the  said  master,  guardians  and  commonalty.  By  p.s. 

Feb.  2G.  Grant  for  life  to  Roland  Thornburgh  of  all  messuages,  houses,  shops, 
Westminster,  lands  and  tenements  in  the  town  and  lordship  of  Penreth,  co.  Cumberland, 
late  of  John  Clyfford,  knight,  late  lord  of  Clifford,  attainted  of  high  treason 
by  authority  of  Parliament  in  the  first  year  of  the  reign,  and  in  the  king's 
hands  hy  his  forfeiture,  to  hold  by  the  services  of  as  many  knights'  fees  and 
as  many  other  rents  and  services  as  they  were  held  by  before  4  March, 
1  Edward  LV.  "  By  p.s. 


13  EDWARD  IV.— Part  II. 


425 


1474.  Membrane  5 — cont. 

Feb.  15.  Licence  for  Jolm  Barre,  knight,  or  his  heirs  and  executors  to  found  ti 
Westminster,  a  perpetual  chantry  of  one  chaplain  to  celebrate  divine  service  daily  at  the 
altar  of  St.  Anne  in  the  parish  church  of  St.  Mary,  Clehungre,  co.  Hereford, 
in  the  diocese  of  Hereford,  for  the  good  estate  of  the  king  and  his  consort 
Elizabeth,  queen  of  England,  and  the  said  John  Barre  and  Joan  his  wife 
lute  the  wife  of  Robert  Greyndoure,  esquire,  Thomas  Bourchier,  knight,  and 
Isabel  his  wife,  countess  of  Devon,  daughter  of  the  said  John  Barre  and 
Edouia  his  wife,  Ankaret  the  wife  of  .lolm  Ilanmere,  esquire,  and  sister 
of  the  said  John  Barre,  and  Richard  Delabere,  esquire,  nephew  of  the  said 
John  Barre,  and  for  their  souls  after  death  and  the  souls  of  Richard 
Pcnibrigge,  knight,  and  Petronilla  his  wife,  Thomas  Ban  e  the  elder,  knight, 
and  Elizabeth  his  wife,  Thomas  Barre  the  younger,  knight,  their  son  and 
Alice  his  wife,  parents  of  the  said  John  Barre,  Edonia  late  the  wife  of  the 
said  John  Barro  and  daughter  and  heiress  of  .Jolin  Hotofte,  escjuire, 
Edmund  Cornewaile,  knight,  and  Elizabeth  his  wife  the  elder  sister  of  the 
said  John  Barre,  Joan  late  the  wife  of  Kynard  Delabcro,  another  of  the 
sisters  of  the  said  John  Barre,  Thomas  Delamare  son  of  Richard  Delamaro 
and  the  said  Alice  his  wife,  mother  of  the  said  John  Barre,  and  ^largaret 
and  Anne  daughters  of  the  said  Richard  Delamare  and  Alice,  and  all  who 
may  lay  hands  to  the  sustenance  of  the  chantry,  to  be  called  the  chantiy  of 
John  Barre,  knight,  in  the  said  church  ;  and  to  grant  in  mortmain  to  the 
said  chaplain,  after  inquisition,  lands,  tenomenis  and  rents,  not  held  in 
chief,  to  the  value  of  81.  yearly. 

By  K.  and  for  11/.  ll.s.  paid  in  the  hanaper. 


Membranes  4-2. 

Inspeximus  and  confirmation  to  John,  bishop  of  Coventry  and  Lichrield, 
of  a  charter  dated  at  Worcester,  12  August,  11  Richard  II.  [^Charter  Roll, 
11-13  Richard  II.  No.  27,]  inspecting  and  confirming  to  Richard,  then 
bishop,  the  following  : — 

1.  A  charter  of  Stephen  dated  at  Westminster  to  Roger,  bishop  of 

Chester.    "^Monmticon,  Vol.  VIII,  p.  12o2,  No.  XL.] 

2.  A  charter  dated  at  Woodstock,  2  June,  43  Henry  III.  [C/i(/r'cr  Roll, 

43  Ilenri/  III.  m.  4.] 

3.  A  charter  dated  at  AVcstminster,  28  May,  18  l.dward  I.  to  Roger  <le 

Meuland,  then  bishop.  \^Monasticon,  No.  XLI;  Charter  Roll, 
18  Edward  I.  No.  G8.] 

4.  A  charter  dated  at  Westminstei-,  1  June,  18  Edward  I.  [^Charter  Roll, 

18  Edward  I.  No.  70],  inspecting  and  confirming  the  following  : — 

(1.)  A  charter  of  Henry  II.  dated  at  \\'estminsti'r. 

(2.)  Another  charter  of  the  same  dated  at  Westminster. 

(3.)  A  charter  of  the  same  dated  at  ^^'ar\vick. 

(4.)  A  charter  dated  at  Canterbury,  4  December,  1  Richard  I. 

(5.)  A  charter  dated  at  Canterbury,  30  November,  1  Richard  I. 

5.  A  charter  dated  at  Canterbury,  15  September,  27  Edward  I.,  to  Walter 

de  Langcton,  then  bishop.    \^Ch(irter  Roll,  27  Edward  I.  No.  9.] 

6.  A  charter  dated  at  W(;stmin.?ter,  18  April,  27  Edward  I.  [^Ibid. 

No.  23.] 

7.  Letters  patent  dated  15  September,  27  Edward  I. 

8.  A  charter  dated  at  Lanercost,  28  January,  35  Edward  I. 


1473. 

Dec.  6. 
Westminster. 


426 


CALENDAR  OF  PATENT  ROLLS. 


1473.  Membraves  4-2 — cont. 

9.  A  charter  dated  at  Westminster,  15  June,  19  Edward  IIL  \^Ch.arter 
Roll.  19  Edward  III.  No.  14,]  inspecting  and  confirming  the 
following : — 

(1.)  A  charter  dated  at  Canterbury,  4  December,  1  Richard  I. 
(2,)  A  charter  dated  at  Reading,    13  April,  14  Henry  III. 

inspecting  and  confirming  the  preceding. 
(3.)  Letters  patent  of  H.  bishop  of  Coventry. 

For  40*.  paid  in  the  hanaper. 

1474.  Membrane  2 — cont. 

Feb.  3.         Pardon  to  the  king's  servitor  Thomas  Seintleger,  esquire,  late  sheriff  of 
Westminster.  Surrey  and  Sussex,  of  all  offences  committed  by  him  and  all  fines,  issues, 
amercements,  debts,  accounts  and  arrears  due  from  him  to  the  king. 

By  p.s. 

1473. 

Oct.  20.  Exemplification,  at  the  request  of  Thomas  Ormond,  esquire,  of  the  tenours 
Westminster,  of  the  following  : — 

1.  A  petition  exhibited  by  the  said  Thomas  in  Parliament  at  Westminster, 

6  October,  12  Edward  IV.  that  he  should  be  in  no  way  prejudiced 
by  the  act  of  attainder  in  Parliament  at  Westminster,  4  November, 
1  Edward  IV.  against  Thomas  Ormond,  knight,  provided  that  no 
persons  having  any  posseTsious  late  of  James  Ormond,  earl  of 
Wiltshire,  shall  be  hurt  by  this  and  that  this  shall  not  extend  to  the 
manor,  lordship  and  hundred  of  Rochford,  co.  Essex.  English. 

2.  The  assent  to  the  same  by  the  commons  in  Parliament  in  these 

words: — A  cest  bille  les  conimnnez  sont  assentuz. 

3.  The  answer  of  the  king: — Soit  fait  come  il  est  desire. 

\^Rolls  of  Parliament,  VI.  26.] 


Membrane  1. 

Sept.  16.  Grant  for  life  to  the  king's  servant  Richard  Ive  of  the  reversion  of  the 
Nottingham,  office  of  clerk  of  the  crown  of  Chancery  with  all  profits  and  appurtenances 
and  20/.  yearly  from  the  issues  of  the  hanaper,  as  John  de  Tamworth  and 
Geoffrey  Martyn  severally  had  in  the  time  of  Edward  III.  and  a  livery  of 
vesture  and  fur  as  Thomas  Ive  has  yearly  at  the  great  wardrobe,  on  the 
death  or  surrender  or  voidance  of  the  office  from  any  other  cause  by  the 
said  Thomas,  to  whom  the  same  was  granted  by  letters  patent  dated 
9  {sic)  January,  7  Edward  IV.  '        By  K. 


Membrane  2ld. 

June  21.  Commission  to  the  king's  brother  Richard,  duke  of  Gloucester,  the  king's 
Coventry.  kinsmen  Henry,  earl  of  Northumberland,  and  John,  earl  of  Shrewsbury, 
William  Hastynges  of  Hastynges,  knight,  William  Parre,  knight,  .John 
Hudleston,  knight,  John  Pilkyngtou,  knight,  Ralph  Assheton,  knight, 
Thomas  Strikland,  knight,  Thomas  Gerard,  knight,  John  Traghford, 
knight,  John  Assheton,  knight,  Thomas  Pilkyngton,  esquire,  Henr}' 
Houghton,  esquire,  John  Buron,  esquire,  Alexander  Houghton,  esquire, 
Thomas  Middelton,  esquire,  Richard  Cliveton,  esquire,  John  Boteler, 
esquire,  Richard  Tounley,  esquire,  Christopher  Southworth,  esquire, 
Robert  Hesketh,  esquire,  James  Skaresbrik,  esquire,  and  William  Faryngton, 
esquire,  to  take  into  the  king's  hands  all  castles,  lordships,  manors,  lands, 
rents  and  services  with  knight's  fees  and  advowsons  late  of  Thomas 


13  EDWARD  IV.— Part  II. 


427 


1473.  Membrane  2\d — cont. 

Haryngton,  knight,  deceased,  and  of  John  Haryngton,  knight,  deceased,  his 
son  and  heir  in  the  county  of  Lancaster,  belonging  to  the  king  by  reason  of 
the  minority  of  Anne  and  Elizabeth,  daughters  and  heiresses  of  the  said  John 
and  kinswomen  and  heiresses  of  tlie  said  Thomas,  and  to  remove  James 
Haryngton,  knight,  and  Robert  Haryngton,  knight,  and  others  who  have 
taken  possession.  By  K. 

June  28.        Commission  to   John  Byconell,  Robert  Blake,  Richard  Page,  John 
Westminster.  Mompesson,  William  Hody  and  John  Hampton  to  enquire  what  lands 
Philip  Beaumont,  esquire,  tenant  in  chief,  held  in  the  county  of  Wilts, 
what  they  are  worth,  on  what  day  he  died  and  who  is  his  heir,  and  to  take 
the  lands  into  the  king's  hands. 

The  like  to  John  Willughby,  John  Cheyne,  Richard  Warre,  esquire, 
Richard  Page,  Christopher  Coke  and  William  Hody  in  the  counties  of 
Somerset  and  Dorset. 

The  like  to  Richard  Hals,  John  Halywell,  Richard  Chichestre,  escjuire, 
Richard  Page,  John  Orchard,  Richard  Wydeslade,  escjuire,  aud  William 
Coffyn,  esquire,  in  the  counties  of  Devon  and  Cornwall. 

The  like  to  John  Neweton,  knight,  Richard  Page,  William  Bornell, 
Roger  Kemmys,  esquire,  Richard  Wydeslade,  esquire,  Richard  Gayton  aud 
Humphrey  Codryngton  in  the  county  of  Gloucester  and  the  marches  of 
Wales  adjacent. 

July  14.  Commission  to  Fulk  Fitz  Waryn,  knight,  John  Dynham,  knight,  John 
Westminster.  Arundell,  knight,  Robert  Willughby,  knight,  John  Crokker,  knight, 
Richard  Page,  John  Denys,  William  Fowell,  Richard  Wynslede,  Thomas 
Lucom,  Thomas  Trefry,  Thomas  Lymbury  and  John  Wydeslade  to 
enquire  into  all  loadings  and  unloadings  of  ships  and  merchandise  without 
,  payment  of  customs  and  subsidies,  all  escapes  of  felons  from  prison,  all 
forfeitures,  wards,  custodies,  marriages,  reliefs,  debts  and  chattels  concealed 
from  the  king,  all  concealments,  trespasses,  offences,  contempts,  falsities 
and  deceptions,  all  alienations  without  licence  of  manors  aud  lands  held  in 
chief,  all  wastes,  sales  and  destructions  committed  in  possessions  of  the 
king,  all  reversions,  knights'  fees  and  advowsons  belonging  to  the  king  by 
minority  or  otherwise,  all  customers,  controllers  and  searchers  neglecting 
their  offices  and  all  sums  of  money  received  by  them,  and  all  customers  or 
controllers  or  searchers,  controllers  and  surveyors  of  the  scrutiny  or  their 
clerks  or  factors  who  have  ships  of  their  own,  meddle  with  merchandise  or 
freighting  or  have  wharves,  quays,  inns  or  t;ivcrns  within  the  counties  of 
Devon  and  Cornwall  from  the  first  day  of  the  reign  until  now,  and  to  send 
their  inquisitions  to  the  barons  of  the  Exchequer  at  Westminster  as  soon  &s 
possible  and  not  later  than  the  morrow  of  M  idsummer. 

July  14,  Commission  to  Richard  Laycy,  Thomas  CoUys,  John  Lannargh  and 
Westminster.  Robert  Trenytlien,  bachelors  in  decrees,  and  Thomas  Mata  and 
Richard  Martyn,  sc  holars  in  canon  law,  to  visit  the  king's  free  chapel  of 
St.  Berian  the  Virgin,  Cornwall,  which  is  exempt  from  all  ordinary  juris- 
diction, and  to  enquire  into  the  wastes  and  dilapidations  of  the  possessions  of 
the  chapel  thiough  the  negligence  of  the  deans,  the  dissolute  life  led  by  the 
ministers  and  othcers  and  the  misapplication  of  the  pensions,  alms,  rents 
and  emoluments,  and  to  reform  the  same  and  certify  thereon  to  the  king 
in  Chancery. 

Membrane  20d. 

June  22.        Commission  de  walliis  et  fossatis  to  Robert  Sheffeld,  Edward  Saltmarshe, 
Westminster.  John  Copyndale,  Roger  Kelk,  John  Middelton  and  Thomas  Mynskyp  on 
the  east  part  of  the  way  leading  from  the  lordship  of  Lekyufeld  to  the 


I 


428  CALENDA.R  OF  PATENT  ROLLS. 


1473.  Membrane  20c? — cont. 

lordship  of  Cotyngham  and  from  Cotyngham  to  the  lordship  of  Waghen 
and  thence  by  the  water  of  Hull  to  the  lordship  of  Eske  in  the  East  Riding 
of  the  county  of  York. 

Nov.  17.       The   like  to  Thomas    Borugh,    knight,  Thomas    Fitzv/illiam,  John 
Westminster.  Haldenby,  Richard  Portyngton,  John  Egmanton,  Robert  Haldenby,  Robert 
ShefFeld,  Edward  Saltmarssh,  John  Vavasour  the  elder  and  Thomas  Belwode 
within  the  limits  of  Marsshland  between  the  waters  of  Ouse,  Went'  and 
Mardyke,  co.  York,  and  within  the  Isle  of  Oxholme,  co.  Lincoln. 

Dec.  3  .        The  like  to  John  Foggc,  knight,  William  Haute,  knight,  Roger  Brent, 
Westminster.  John  Fyueux,  William  Brent,  John  Nethirsole  and  John  Hert  by  the 
coast  of  the  sea  and  marsh  between  Tenterden  and  Lyde,  co.  Kent. 
July  10.        Commission  to   John  Neuburgh,  esquire,  William   Huddefelde,  John 
Westminster.  Cheverell,  Thomas  Martyn,  John  Moune,  William  Montagu  of  Henley  and 
the  sheriff  of  Dorset  to  arrest   John  Langton  of  Dorchestre,  '  mercer,' 
William  Boude  of  Dorchestre,  '  mercer/  and  Richard  Tole  of  Dorchestre, 
'  cordewaner,'  and  bring  them  to  the  king  in  Chancery. 

Membrane  \9d. 

Dec.  7.  Commission  to  Roger  Tocotes,  knight,  John  Cheyne  of  Fallesdon 
Westminster,  Cheyne,  John  Mompesson,  Henry  Longe,  John  Whittokesmede,  Robei't 
Baynard,  Richard  Kaynell,  William  Kaynell  and  the  sheriff  of  Wilts  to 
enquire  about  certain  wards,  marriages,  reliefs  and  escheats  concealed  from 
the  king,  certain  escapes  of  felons  from  prison  and  certain  grants  and 
alienations  in  mortmain  without  licence  within  the  said  county. 

Membrane  \M. 

Feb.  7.         Commission  to  .John  Rotheram,  John  Sturgeon,  John  Broughton,  Robert 
Westminster.  Bothe,  Richard  Godfrey,  John  Wake,  John  Laurence,  John  Pulter  and 
William  Druell  to  enquire  into  certain  treasons,  felonies  and  other  offences 
committed  by  Richard  Tubman,  '  yoman,'  within  the  county  of  Bedford. 

3^473,  Membrane  I6d. 

Dec.  21.  Commission  to  Thomas  Tirell,  knight,  Walter  Writill,  esquire,  William 
Westminster.  Grene,  esquire,  and  Robert  Plomer  to  enquire  about  all  honours,  castles, 
lordships,  manors,  lands,  rents,  reversions,  annuities,  offices,  fees,  advowsons, 
fee  farms,  hereditaments  and  other  possessions  which  James,  late  earl  of 
Wiltshire,  attainted  of  high  treason  by  authority  of  an  act  in  Parliament  at 
Westminster,  held  in  the  county  of  Essex  on  4  March,  1  Edward  IV. 

The  like  to  Thomas  Bourghchier,  knight,  John  Fogge,  knight,  John 
Palmer,  John  Roger  and  tJohn  Alfov  in  the  county  of  Kent. 

1474... 

Jan.  9.  Commission  to  Henry  Perpount,  knight,  James  Blount,  esquire,  Thomas 
Westminster.  Tremayll  and  John  Fitzherbert  to  eater  into  and  take  seisin  in  tiie  king's 
name  of  all  ca.'itles,  lordships,  manors,  lands,  forests,  chaces,  parks,  warrens 
and  other  possessions  in  the  counties  of  Nottingham,  Derby,  Stafford  and 
Leicester  which  the  king's  brother  George,  duke  of  Clarence,  lately  had  of 
the  king's  grant  and  which  have  been  taken  into  the  king's  hands  by  virtue 
of  an  act  of  resumption  in  the  present  Parliament,  and  to  remove  all 
farmers,  tenants,  receivers,  foresters,  parkers,  bailiffs  and  other  officers  and 
occupiers  and  replace  them  or  others  at  discretion.  By  K. 

Jan.  12.  Conunission  to  William  Wade,  John  Walworth  and  Robert  Fellawe  to 
Westminster,  enquire   into  the  complaint  of  Henry  Harmausou  of  Vandordrygh  in 


13  EDWARD  IV— Part  II. 


429 


1474.  Memhrane  16(Z — cont. 

Hollcand,  merchant,  owner  of  a  ship  called  le  Playte  of  Dordrygh,  of  the 
portage  of  60  tuns,  that  when  the  said  ship  laden  with  wines  of  le  Reynn 
and  other  goods  and  merchandise  to  the  value  of  200  marks  was  lying  at 
anchor  within  the  port  of  Orwell,  co.  Suffolk,  certain  pirates  came  upon  it 
in  certain  ships  of  the  realm  and  despoiled  it  of  the  said  goods,  wines  and 
merchandise,  contrary  to  the  form  of  the  truces  between  the  king  and  his 
brother  the  duke  of  Burgundy,  and  to  cause  restitution  to  be  made. 


Membrane  12d. 

Feb.  18.        Commission  to  William  Courteney,  knight,  Philip  Courteney,  knight, 
"Westminster.  Peter  Courteney,  esquire,  John  Gybbys,  Micliael  Denys,  John  Wykys  and 
the  sheriff  of  Devon  to  arrest  Thomas  Olyver,  monk,  Henry  Durke  and 
John  Tanner  and  commit  tiiem  to  gaol. 

Membrane  lOd. 

Feb.  26.  Commission  to  the  king's  kinsman  Anthony,  earl  Ryvers,  William 
Westminster.  Berkeley,  knight,  Walter  Deverenx  of  Ferrers,  knight,  John  Barre,  knight, 
James  Baskervyle,  kniglit,  John  Deverenx,  knight,  John  Harlee,  knigiit, 
Richard  Corbet,  kniglit,  Richard  Crofte,  knight,  Ricliard  Delabere  and  the 
sheriff  of  Hereford  to  array  the  king's  lieges  of  the  county  of  Hereford 
against  William  Herbert,  clerk,  John  Herbert,  '  bastard,' Thomas  Herbert, 
'  bastard,'  Joim  ap  Roger  Vaghiin  and  Roger  ap  Roger  Vaghan,  who  did 
not  ajjpcar  before  the  king  and  council  when  summoned  to  answer  for  divers 
offences  committed  by  them  in  WalciS  and  the  m-'vrches  but  witlidrew  to 
"Wales  and  there  stir  up  insurrection,  and  to  arrest  them  and  their  aiders 
and  abettors  and  put  them  in  safe  custody  and  give  assistance  against  tlieia 
to  the  king's  first-born  son  Edward,  prince  of  Wales,  when  required  by  him 
or  his  council.  By  K. 

The  like  to  the  following  in  the  counties  named  : — 

Anthony,  earl  Ryvers,  William  Berkeley,  knight,  John  Beauchanip, 
knight,  Richard  Beauchanip,  knight,  Robert  Poyntz  and  the  sheriff, 
in  tlie  county  of  Gloucester. 

Anthony,  earl  Ryvers,  John  Straimgc  of  Straunge,  knight,  Walter 
Deverenx  of  Ferrers,  knight,  Humjjhrcy  Blount,  knight,  William 
Yong,  knight,  Richard  Crofte,  knight,  Ralph  Brereton,  knigiit, 
John  Leyghton,  Thomas  Acton,  Thomas  Horde,  Fulk  Spryngehed 
and  the  sheriff,  in  tlie  county  of  Salop. 


1473.  Membrane  Od. 

Aug.  18.  Commission  to  Tiiomas  Uvedale,  knight,  Maurice  Barkely,  knight, 
Lichfield.  William  Sandes,  knight,  Edward  Harkeley,  Thomas  Welles,  John  Cooke, 
John  Walop,  Thomas  Poundc,  Richard  Jay,  Henry  More,  John  Wliitchede, 
John  Hamond,  John  (^uidampton,  Philip  More,  Richard  Kyngismyll,  John 
Smert  and  the  sherift'of  Southampton  to  enquire  concerning  certain  farms 
for  lands  granted  and  divers  otlior  sums  of  money  and  yearly  profits, 
particulars  of  Avhich  are  sent  to  them  for  inspection  in  the  rolls  annexed, 
which  were  paid  to  the  king's  progenitors  in  the  county  of  Southaniptoii,  as 
appears  in  the  memorarula  of  the  Exchequer,  but  which  through  the 
negligence  of  the  sheriff  or  otiier  causes  have  not  been  fully  paid  for  a  long 
time,  and  to  certify  thereon  before  the  king  and  council  at  Westminster  in 
the  quinzainc  of  Michaelmas  next.  By  K. 


430 


CALENDAR  OF  PATENT  ROLLS. 


1 473.  Membrane  9d — cont. 

Like  commissions  in  the  following  counties  : — 


Northampton. 
Cambridge. 
Huntingdon. 
Kent. 

Northumberland. 
Devon. 
Essex. 
Hertford. 


Suffolk. 
Worcester. 
Norfolk. 
Wilts. 
Hereford. 
Nottingham. 
Gloucester. 
Derby. 

(The  names  of  the  commissioners  are  the  same  as  those  given  for  the 
respective  counties  on  pp.  405-408). 


Membrane  8d. 

Aug.  18.  Commission  to  certain  persons  (names  as  above)  to  enquire  as  above  in 
Lichfield,     the  county  of  Warwick  and  certify  in  the  octaves  of  Midsummer  next. 

By  K. 

Like  commissions  in  the  following  counties  : — 


Leicester.  Berks. 

SuiTcy.  Somei'set. 

Sussex.  Dorset. 

Oxford.  East  Riding  of  York. 

Salop.  West  Riding  of  York. 

Stafford.  North  Riding  of  York. 


(Names  as  above). 


3^474^  Membrane  5d. 

Feb.  12.  Commission  to  John  Grevylle,  knight,  Humphrey  Stafford,  William 
Westminster.  Harewell,  William  Luce  and  John  Peytoo  to  arrest  Richard  Verney  of 
Compton  Mordok,  co.  Warwick,  knight,  Edmund  Verney  of  the  same,  late 
escheator  in  that  county,  esquire,  William  Verney  of  Great  Wolford, 
CO.  Warwick,  esquire,  John  Bodesden  of  Compton  Mordok,  '  yoman,' 
Walter  Preest,  clerk,  Robert  Worseley,  '  yoman,'  William  Baker,  '  yoman,' 
and  John  Eggemanton,  clerk,  and  bring  them  before  the  king  and  council 
in  the  quinzaine  of  Easter  next. 


Membrane  Ad. 

Feb.  8.        Commission  to  John  Barre,  knight,  Richard  de  la  Bere,  esquire,  and 
Westminster.  Thomas  Breynton,  esquire,  to  enquire  what  lands  John  Throkmarton, 
esquire,  tenant  in  chief,  held  in  the  counties  of  Worcester,  Gloucester  and 
Hereford  on  the  day  of  his  death  and  what  they  are  worth  and  who  is  his 
heir  and  to  take  the  same  into  the  king's  hand*. 


431 


14  EDWARD  IV.— Part  I. 


Membrane  28. 

Pardons  of  outlawry  to  the  following  : — 

Geoffrey  Sadeler  late  of  Ocle,  co.  Essex,  '  yoman,'  for  not  appearing 
before  the  king  to  answer  for  divers  trespasses,  he  having  surrendered 
to  the  Marshalsea  prison,  as  Thomas  Byllyng,  chief  justice  of  the 
King's  Bench,  has  certified.  Middlesex. 

Richard  Haughton  alias  Scotte  of  Camlerton,  co.  Somerset,  *  yoman,' 
for  not  appearing  before  .Tohn  Prysot  and  his  fellows,  justices  of  the 
Bench  of  the  late  king,  to  answer  Richard  Shesby  alias  Parker 
touching  a  debt  of  405.  Somerset. 

John  Lemyngton  late  of  London,  the  younger,  'merchant,'  alias  late 
of  Calais,  for  not  appearing  before  the  justices  of  tlie  Bench  to 
answer  Thomas  Markham,  esquire,  touching  a  debt  of  41.  London. 

Thomas  Fox,  late  of  Wynkelekeynes,  co.  Devon,  clerk,  alias  of 
Plymptou,  CO.  Devon,  chaplain,  for  not  appearing  before  Robert 
Danby  and  his  fellows,  late  justices  of  the  Bench,  to  answer  Thomas 
Holand,  escpiire,  and  William  Aleyn,  citizen  and  draper  of  London, 
touching  debts  of  10/.  and  40j.  respectively.       Devon  and  London. 

Thomas  Bartelot  late  of  Clnyoure,  co.  Oxford,  '  bocher,'  alias  '  husl)ond- 
man,'  for  not  appearing  before  Thomas  Bryan  and  his  fellows, 
justices  of  the  Bench,  to  answer  a  plea  that  he  render  40/.  to  Isabel 
Bourton,  late  the  wife  of  William  Bourton  and  executrix  of  his  will. 

Oxford. 

Henry  Wortham  late  of  Bonegay,  co.  Suffolk,  '  berkcr,'  for  not 
appearing  before  the  king  to  answer  for  divers  trespasses. 

Middlesex. 

Robert  Smythes  late  of  Ersham,  co.  Norfolk,  *  carpenter,'  for  the  same, 

Middlesex, 

Elizabeth  Sutton  of  London,  '  wydowe,'  for  not  appearing  before  the 
justices  of  the  Bench  to  answer  John  Mortymer  touching  a  trespass. 

Middlesex. 

Robert  Smyth  of  Ekyngton,  co.  Derby,  the  elder,  '  husbondman,'  for 
not  appearing  before  Robert  Danby  and  his  fellows,  late  justices  of 
the  Bench,  to  answer  Elizabeth,  countess  of  Shrewsbury,  on  a  charge 
of  having  broken  her  park  at  Worsop,  liunted  therein  aud  carried  off 
deer.  Nottingham. 

.John  Sharpe  of  Hedon  in  Holdernesse,  co.  York,  '  drapour,'  for  not 
appearing  to  answer  Thomas  Neleson,  citizen  and  merchant  of  York, 
touching  a  debt  of  8/.  1  Is.  Gd.  City  of  York. 

Thomas  Wryght  lato  of  Quaplode,  co.  Lincoln,  *  husbondman,'  for  not 
appearing  before  the  king  to  answer  John  Mason  touching  a  trespass 
committed  by  him  and  John  Cawod  late  of  Quaplode,  » yoman,'  and 
William  Palfreyman  late  of  Multou  in  Holand,  co.  Lincoln, 
*  husbondman.'  Hertford. 

"William  Folkys  of  Little  Bradlegh,  co.  Suffolk,  '  husbondman,' for  not 
appearing  before  the  justices  of  the  Bench  to  answer  a  plea  that  he 
render  100*.  to  Henry  Hardman,  clerk,  William  Stevenson  and  John 
Thorpe,  executors  of  the  will  of  William  Bocche  alias  Odeham  late 
of  Bury  St.  Edmunds,  ♦  draper.'  Suffolk. 


432 


CALENDAR  OF  PATENT  ROLLS. 


1474. 

May  11. 

Westminster. 


May  10. 

Westminster. 

May  13. 
Westminster. 


May  16. 
Westminster. 


May  16. 
Westminster. 


May  16. 

AVestminster. 

May  20. 
Westminster. 


May  18. 

Westminster. 


May  24. 

Westminster. 


June  21. 
Westminster. 


.June  15. 
Westminster. 

June  20. 
Westminster. 


June  27. 
Westminster. 


Membrane  28 — cont. 

William  Lakeford  late  of  Harwych,  co.  Essex,  '  chapman,'  for  not 
appealing  to  answer  George  Peke  touching  a  debt  of  53s.  4:d. 

London. 

Richard  Roos  late  of  Norwich,  esquire,  for  not  appearing  to  answer 
John  Alyngton,  esquire,  touching  a  trespass.  Cambridge. 

Thomas  Brown  late  of  Acle  or  Ocle,  co.  Norfolk,  '  chapman,'  alias  of 
Norwich,  '  mercer,'  for  not  appearing  before  John  Prysot  and  his 
fellows,  justices  of  the  Bench  of  the  late  king,  to  answer  Christoplier 
Eton,  citizen  and  mercer  of  London,  touching  a  debt  of  15/.  and 
before  Robert  Danby  and  his  fellows,  late  justices  of  the  Bench,  to 
answer  John  Richard,  citizen  and  grocer  of  London,  touching  a  debt 
of  1(5/,  London. 

John  Barboure  late  of  Chepynguorton,  co.  Oxlbrd,  '  chapman,'  for  not 
appearing  before  Robert  Danby  and  his  fellows,  late  justices  of  the 
Bench,  to  answer  Thomas  Nyche,  citizen  and  mercer  of  London,  and 
Thomas  Nycholas  alias  Phippes  of  Staunton  Seynt  John,  co. 
Oxford,  '  gentilman,'  touching  a  debt  of  38Z.  18s.  9d.  London. 

John  Smyth  late  of  Caundyssh,  co.  Suffolk,  the  younger,  'gentylman,' 
late  receiver  of  Richard,  late  duke  of  York,  of  his  honour  of  Clare, 
for  not  appearing  before  the  justices  of  the  Bench  to  answer  a  plea 
that  he  render  53/.  6.?.  i'd.  to  William  Chedworth,  esquire,  brother 
of  John  Chedworth,  late  bishop  of  Lincoln,  and  executor  of  his  will. 

Middlesex. 

John  Basset  late  of  Heddyng,  co.  Cornwall,  esquire,  for  not  appearing 
to  answer  Walter  Chaundeler  touching  a  debt  of  2C/.  London. 

Richard  Charlys  late  of  Wytham,  co.  Essex,  the  younger,  '  chapman,' 
for  not  appearing  to  answer  Thomas  Sergyaunt,  citizen  and  grocer 
of  London,  touching  a  debt  of  40s.  London. 

Robert  Chirch  late  of  the  parish  of  Berstede,  co.  Kent,  '  mason,' 
for  not  appearing  before  Robert  Danby  and  his  fellows,  late  justices 
of  the  Bench,  to  answer  William  Colyngbourne,  esquire,  and 
Margaret  his  wife,  lately  called  Margaret  Pykeryng,  widow,  and 
Thomas  Eglis ton  of  London,  '  sergeant,'  touching  a  debt  of  20  marks. 

Kent. 

Thomas  Lucy  late  of  Warbelyngton,  co.  Southampton,  'yoman,'  for 
not  appearing  before  the  justices  of  the  Bench  to  answer  Richard 
Dammer  touching  a  debt  of  13/.  65.  Sd.  Southampton. 
Vacated  because  othericise  below. 

The  same,  for  the  same.  Sussex. 

William  Ljngen  late  of  Caurs,  alias  Caus,^co.  Salop,  esquire,  for  not 
appearing  before  Robert  Dauby  and  his  fellows,  late  justices  of  tiie 
Bench,  to  answer  John  Lardener  touching  a  debt  of  23/.  6s.  Sd. 

London. 

John  Bekyrton  late  of  Ryther,  co.  York,  chaplain,  for  not  appearing 
to  answer  Thomas  Hemelsey,  citizen  and  merchant  of  York,  touching 
a  debt  of  10/.  City  of  York. 

Richard  Combe  of  Leuesham,  co.  Kent,  '  husbondman,'  for  not  ap- 
pearing before  the  king  to  answer  John  Spenser  touching  a  trespass 
committed  by  him  and  Richard  Castelford  of  Leuesham,  '  yoman.' 

Kent. 

John  Heyncs  late  of  Oxlenge,  co.  Gloucester,  '  carpenter,'  for  not 
appearing  before  the  justices  of  the  Bench  to  answer  Richard 
Southern,  '  dyer,'  touching  a  debt  of  40s.  Middlesex. 


14  EDWARD  IV.— Part  I. 


433 


Membrane  28 — coat. 

William  Lotte  of  the  parish  of  Berham,  co.  Kent,  *  husbondman,'  for  not 
appearing  before  Robert  Danby  and  his  fellows,  late  justices  of  the 
Bench,  to  answer  John  Danvers,  clerk,  touching  a  debt  of  40/, 

Middlesex. 


Membrane  27. 

William  Multon  alias  Moweton  alias  Melton  late  of  Northampton, 
'  mercer,'  alias  '  chapman,'  for  not  appearing  before  Robert  Dauby 
and  his  fellows,  late  justices  of  the  Bench,  to  answer  Ralph  Byrd, 
merchant  of  London,  and  Hugh  Wyche,  mercer  and  alderman  of 
London,  touching  debts  of  40*.  and  8/.  4*.  8r/.  respectively,  and 
before  John  Prysot  and  his  fellows,  justices  of  the  Bench  of  tlie  late 
king,  to  answer  William  Brent,  citizen  and  grocer  of  London, 
touching  a  debt  of  3/.  8*.  London. 

.John  Sterne  of  Henrede,  co.  Berks, '  chapman,'  alias  late  of  Esthenreth, 
CO.  Berks,  '  mercer,'  for  not  appearing  before  Robert  Danby  and  his 
fellows,  late  justices  of  the  Bench,  to  answer  Alan  Colet  and 
Robert  Tooke,  citizen  and  '  iremouger '  of  London,  touching  debts  of 
20/.  and  56*.  4d.  respectively.  Wilts  and  London. 

John  Spencer,  vicar  of  the  parish  church  of  St.  Peter  the  Apostle, 
Bokton  Monchynce,  co.  Kent,  for  not  appearing  to  answer  Ileury 
Logan,  citizen  and  mercer  of  London,  touching  a  debt  of  8/.  IG.v. 

London, 

John  Serle  late  of  North vvarnburgh,  co,  Southampton,  the  elder, 
'  husbondman,'  son  of  Henry  Serle,  for  not  njjpearing  before  the 
justices  of  the  Bench  to  answer  Thomas  Seyntleger,  John  AVallop])e, 
John  Bercwc  and  Robert  Vaus  touching  a  debt  of  9/.  17*. 

Middlesex. 

Niclioiag  Champneys  late  of  Strode,  co.  Kent,  'gentilman,'  for  not 
appearing  to  answer  .John  I'ortcr  of  I.,ondon,  '  harbour,'  touching  a 
debt  of  16/.  IH*.  London, 

Thomas  Thaccher  of  Mynsterwortli,  co,  Gloucester,  'husbondman,'  for 
not  appearing  to  answer  tin-  king  touching  a  debt  of  27/.  London, 

Reginald  Wynne  of  Asshewell,  co.  Hertford,  'husbondman,'  for  not 
appearing  before  Robert  Danby  and  his  fellow.*,  late  justices  of  the 
Bench,  to  answer  a  plea  that  he  render  10/.  to  Thomas  Breton, 
brother  of  John  Breton,  clerk,  .John  Tylney,  clerk,  Thomas  Wynter, 
chaplain,  and  Richard  Patryk,  executors  of  the  will  of  John  Breton, 
clerk.  City  of  Lincoln. 

George  Stevenson  late  of  Fulburn,  co.  Cambridge,  '  yoman,'  for  not 
appearing  befoi  e  the  justices  of  the  Bench  to  answer  Thomas  Toche 
and  Henry  Lychefeld  touching  a  debt  of  7/.  10*.  London. 

John  Carter  late  of  Walton,  co,  Essex,  '  husbondman,'  for  not  ap- 
pearing before  Robert  Danby  and  his  fellows,  late  justices  of  the 
Bench,  to  answer  Roger  Radclyff,  clerk,  touching  a  debt  of  17/.  6j,  8d, 

London, 

Michael  Harpham  late  of  the  parish  of  Milton  by  Gravesende,  co.  Kent, 
'  bocher,'  and  Anne  his  wife,  for  not  appearing  before  the  justices 
of  the  Bench  to  answer  Thomas  Blande  touching  a  trespass. 

Middlesex. 

£  £ 


434 


CALENDAR  OF  PATENT  ROLLS. 


1474. 
Oct.  13. 

Westminster. 


Oct.  19. 
Westiniustcr. 

Oct,  23. 
Westminster. 

Oct.  10. 
Wcstminstor. 

Oct.  2G. 

AVestniinster. 


Oct.  2G. 

West  minster. 


Oct.  10. 

Westminster. 


Oct.  10. 
Westminster. 


Oct  29. 
Westminster. 


Oct.  20. 
Westminster. 

Oct.  19. 

Westminster. 


Membrane  26. 

Robert  Swanne  late  of  Barnyston,  co.  Nottingham,  '  chaplain,'  for  not 
appearing  before  Thomas  Bryan  and  his  fellows,  justices  of  the 
Bencii,  to  answer  Thomas  Wodecote  touching  a  trespass.  Leicester. 

William  AVebbe  late  of  Bcdhara,  co.  Essex,  '  clothmaker,'  for  not 
appearing  before  Robert  Datiby  and  his  fellows,  late  justices  of  the 
Bench,  to  answer  William  Purches,  citizen  and  mercer  of  Loudon, 
touching  a  debt  of  171.  2s.  lid.  London. 

John  Cook  of  Dullyngham,  co.  Cambridge, '  bocher,'  for  not  appearing 
before  the  justices  of  the  Bench  to  answer  Robert  Totay  of  Bury 
St.  Edmunds,  '  shoraaker,'  touching  a  debt  of  40s.  Suffolk. 

John  Brownboyte  late  of  Leskertburgh,  co.  Cornwall,  '  mercer,' fl/i'as 
'  marchant,'  for  not  appearing  to  answer  John  Watte  alias  Wattys 
touching  a  debt  of  20  marks.  Cornwall. 

Edward  Bran  well  of  Polsloo,  co.  Devon,  '  husbondman,'  alias  Edward 
Browenewell,  '  caryour,'  for  not  appearing  to  answer  Nicholas 
Nawene  touching  a  debt  of  14/.  14s.  i^d.  Middlesex. 

Roger  Couper  late  of  London,  •  stokfysshemonger,'  for  not  appearing 
before  Thomas  Bryan  and  his  fellows,  justices  of  the  Bench,  to 
answer  Bartiiolomew  Donne,  citizen  and  tailor  of  London,  touching 
a  debt  of  11/.  London. 

Thomas  Wyse  of  Norwich,  '  worsted wever,'  for  not  appearing  before 
Robert  Danhj^  and  his  fellows,  late  justices  of  the  Bench,  to  answer 
Thomas  HeAvys,  parson  of  the  church  of  lilofeld,  touching  a  debt 
of  10  marks.  City  of  Norwich. 

Thomas  Bonda  of  Wytherj^gge,  co.  Devon,  '  husbondman,'  for  not 
appearing  before  John  Jiiyn  and  his  fellows,  justices  of  the  Bench 
of  the  late  king,  to  answer  John  Swaynston  touching  a  debt  of  40s. 

Devon. 

Thomas  Wyke  nlias  Wynterborn  late  of  Esthanney,  co.  Berks, 
'husbondman,'  for  not  appearing  before  the  justices  of  the  Bench  to 
answer  William  Wyldy,  prior  of  the  house  of  Jesus  of  Betheleeni  of 
Shene,  touching  a  debt  of  10  marks  Irf.  Middlesex. 

John  Dyer  late  of  Telford,  co.  Somerset,  '  clothmaker,'  for  not  appear- 
ing to  answer  Bartholomew  Donne,  citizen  and  tailor  of  London, 
touching  a  debt  of  70s.  London. 

William  Lyon  of  Alverston,  co.  -Sussex,  '  husbondman,'  for  not  appear- 
ing before  Robert  Danby  and  his  fellows,  late  justices  of  the  Bench, 
to  answer  John  Dauvers,  clerk,  touching  a  debt  of  100/. 

Middlesex. 

Richard  Benet  late  of  Warham,  co.  Dorset,  clerk,  alias  late  of  Codford, 
CO.  Wilts,  clerk,  for  not  appearing  before  John  Prysot  and  his 
fellows,  justices  of  the  Bench  of  the  late  king,  to  satisfy  Walter 
Brygger.  late  under-sheriff  of  Surrey,  of  20/.  which  he  recovered 
aganist  him  and  6  marks  damages  and  to  answer  Philip  Longe, 
clerk,  touching  a  debt  of  24/.,  he  having  surrendered  to  the  Flete 
prison  and  satisfied  the  said  Walter,  as  Thomas  Bryan,  chief  justice 
of  the  Bench,  has  certified.  Middlesex. 

William  Andrews  late  of  Cley  by  the  Sea,  co.  Norfolk,  '  yoman,'  late 
fishmonger  of  London,  for  not  appearing  before  the  justices  of  the 
Bench  to  answer  Henry  Heydon  touching  a  debt  of  40s.  London. 

William  Elys  late  of  Gravesend,  co.  Kent,  'chapman,'  for  not  appear- 
ing before  Thomas  Bryan  and  his  fellows,  justices  of  the  Bench,  to 
answer  John  Doget  touching  a  debt  of  5  marks.  London. 


14  EDWARD  IV.— Part  I. 


435 


1474.  Membrane  26 — cout. 

Nov.  28.  John  Auston  late  of  Beglitou,  co.  Derby,  '  husbondman,'  for  not 

Westminster.  appearing  before  Robert  Dan  by  and  his  fellows,  late  justices  of  the 

Bench,  to  answer  Richard,  prior  of  the  monastery  of  St.  Mary 
-Magdalen,  Monkvertou,  touching  a  trespass.  Derby. 

Agnes  Auston  late  of  Beghton,  '  wydowe,'  for  the  same.  Derby. 


Membrane  25. 

Nov.  6.  .John    Wylly   of  Bristol,  *  maryner,'  and  IMargaret  his   wife,  late 

Westmiustcr.  the  wife  of  William  Phelpot,  executrix  of  tiie  will  of  William 

Phelpot  alias  Philpot  late  of  Bristol,  '  maryner,'  for  not  appeiii  ing 
to  answer  a  plea  that  they  render  8  marks  .3*.  4d.  to  John  Phelpot 
(flias  Phelippes  late  of  Bristol,  '  draper,'  alias '  hosyer.'  Middlesex. 

Nov.  7.  John  Wykes  late  of  Kyngton,  co.  Somerset,  '  gentilman,'  for  not 

Wesiiiiinster.  appearing   to   answer  a    plea   that  he  render  100*.   to  Walter 

Stokker  and  Agnes  his  wife,  late  the  wife  of  William  Gregory  the 
younger  of  the  parish  of  St.  .rohn,  Walbroke,  late  citizen  and 
skinner  cif  London,  and  executrix  of  his  Vv-ili.  Mi(l<llescx. 

Ni)v.  .'}.  John  Denys  late  of  Ipswich,  co.  Suffolk,  '  yoman,'  for  not  ai)pearing 

Westminster.  before  Robert  Dan  by  and  his  fellows,  late  justices  of  the  Bench,  to 

answer  Alice,  duchess  of  Suffolk,  touciiing  a  debt  of  71.  and  before 
the  present  justices  of  the  Bench  to  answer  William  Lok  touciiing 
a  debt  of  6/.  Suffolk  and  London. 

Nov.  7.  John  Baxster  of  Botulfeston,  co.  Lincoln,  '  maroiiaunt,'  alias  John 

Westminster.  Bacster  of  Boston,  co.  Lincoln,  the  eider,  for  not  appearing  before 

John  Prysot  and  his  fellows,  justices  of  the  Bench  of  the  late  i<ing, 
to  answer  William  Eyles  and  Jolm  Myles  of  Keteryng  touching  a 
debt  of  40/.,  Thomas  Ivee  of  Salisbury,  co.  Wilts,  '  brewer,'  touching 
a  debt  of  1(51.  \.3s.  4c/,  John  M.aior  ol'  Burford,  co.  Oxford,  '  taillour,' 
touching  a  d(;bt  of  40/.  and  lliinn)lirey  Justinian  and  Danhis 
Justinian,  m(!rchants  of  Venice,  touching  a  debt  of  Ml.  17s.  IL/., 
and  before  Robert  Danby  and  his  fellows,  late  justices  of  tiie  Bench, 
to  answer  Robert  Strangbou  and  William  Cook,  '  gentiinian,' 
touciiing  a  debt  of  10/. 

Northampton,  Wilts,  Oxford,  Town  of  Southampton  and  Middlesex. 

Oct.  IL  Thomas  Marston  the  elder  of  Chepyngwycoinbe,  co.  Buckingham, 

Westminster.  'chapman,'  son  of  John  Marston  of  Che|)yiig\vycoinbe,  fur  not 

appearing  Ijeforc  Robert  l);inl)y  and  his  fellows,  late  justices  of  the 
Bench,  to  answer  William  Sevesti-r,  citizen  and  mercer  ol"  London, 
touching  a  debt  of  20/.  London. 

Nov.  12.  John  Rolffo  of  Shorne,  co.  Kent,  '  husbondman,'  for  not  appearing  to 

Westminster.  answer  John  Ilasard,  vicar  of  Northflete,  anil  William  Pejjyr,  vicar 

of  Shorne,  touching  a  debt  of  71.  Jvent. 

Nov.  15.  Richard  Coke  alias  Mille  of  Edyngbregge,  co.  Kent,  *  boclicr,'  for  not 

Westminster.  appearing  before  the  justices  of  the  Bench  to  answer  John  Hol- 

mciiden  touching  a  debt  of  40s.  Kent. 

Nov.  4.  Alan  Jakson  alias  Wilkynsoii  Late  of  Boston,  co.  Lincoln,  merchant, 

Westminster.  for  not  appearing  before  Robert  Danby  and  his  fellows,  late  justices 

of  the  Bench,  to  answer  William  Cosyn  of  Hishop's  Lenn,  co. 
Not  folk,  merchant,  touching  a  debt  of  G/.  J  5s.  2d.  Norfolk. 

Nov.  17.  Robert,  Caylcwey  of  Great  Weston,  co.  Somerset,  *  husbondman,'  for 

^Westminster.  not  appearing  before  the  justices  of j  the  Bench  to  answer  William 

Baker  touching  a  debt  of  20/.  Wilts. 

£  E  2 


436 


CALENDAR  OF  PATENT  ROLLS. 


1474.  Membrane  25 — cont. 

Nov.  26.  John  Hete   late  of  Hordeley,  co.  Oxford,  '  husbondman,'  for  not 

Westminster,  appearing  before  Robert  Danby  and  his  fellows,  late  justices  of  the 

Bench,  to  answer  Thomas  Wylcotes  of  Dene,  co.  Oxford,  esquire, 
touching  a  debt  of  20  marks.  Surrey. 

Nov.  22.  John  Sandon  of  Asshewell,  co.  Hertford,  '  bocher,' for  not  appearing 

Westminster.  to  answer  William  Seyntgeorge,  knight,  touching  a  debt  of  100s. 

Cambridge. 

Oct.  23.  John  Mihvard  late  of  Alvyngton,  co.  Worcester,  '  husbondman,'  for 

Westminster.  not  appearing  before  the  justices  of  the  Bench  to  answer  William 

Wyldy,  prior  of  the  house  of  Jesus  of  Bethelcem  of  Shene,  of  the 
Carthusian  order,  touching  a  debt  of  59s.  8c?.  Middlesex. 

John  Pitte  late  of  Alvyngton,  '  husbondman,'  for  the  same. 

Middlesex. 

Nov.  23.  John  Grauut  late  of  Southmymmcs,  co.  Middlesex,  '  gentilman,'  alias 

Westminster.  late  of  London,  alias  of  the  priory  within  the  close  of  the  priory  of 

St.  Mary  without  Bysshoppesgate,  London,  for  not  appearing  before 
Robert  Danby  and  his  fellows,  late  justices  of  the  Bench,  to  answer 
John  Palmer  of  Woxbrygge,  co.  Middlesex,  '  mercer,'  touching  a 
debt  of  46s.  and  to  answer  a  plea  that  he  render  4  marks  to  Elizabeth 
Huswyfe,  administratrix  of  the  goods  of  Thomas  Huswyfe,  who 
died  intestate.  Middlesex  and  London. 

Nov.  28.  Richard   Smyth   late   of  Henton  Dawebedeney,  co.  Southampton, 

Westminster.  '  husbondman,'  for  not  appearing  to  answer  Robert  Westgate,  prior 

of  the  cathedral  church  of  St.  Swithun,  Winchester,  touching  a  debt 
of  40Z.  Southampton. 

Nov.  26.  William  Pyggyll  of  Chystlette,  co.  Kent,  '  husbondman,'  for  not 

Westminster.  appearing  to  answer  John  Neweman  touching  a  debt  of  40s.  Kent. 

Nov.  28.  Robert  Bisshop    late   of  Taunton,  co.  Somerset,  '  toker,'  for  not 

Westminster.  appearing  before  the  justices  of  the  Bench  to  answer  Thomas  Rouley 

touching  a  trespass.  Somerset. 

William  Dodde  of  Calrowe,  co.  Salop,  '  gentilman,'  for  not  appearing 
to  answer  Elizabeth,  countess  of  Shrewsbury,  touching  a  trespass. 

York. 

1475. 

Jan.  25.  John  Bode  late  of  Wrytyll,  co.  Essex,  '  yoman,'  for  not  appearing  to 

Westminster.  answer  John  Hoode  of  Pyttysey  touching  a  debt  of  61.  London. 

Jan.  26.  Richard  Wilke  late  of  Redyng,  co.  Berks,  '  corveser,'  for  not  appearing 

Westminster.  before  Robert  Danby  and  his  fellows,  late  justices  of  the  Bench,  to 

answer  David  John  touching  a  debt  of  73s.  4d.  London. 

Jan.  31.  John  Welles,  citizen  of  London,  '  Salter,'  for  not  appearing  before  the 

Westminster.  justices  of  the  Bench  to  answer  Beatrice  late  the  wife  of  Robert 

Wyvyle,  esquire,  touching  a  debt  of  40/.  Norfolk. 

Jan.  24.  Thomas  Hayward,  vicar  of  the  church  of  Chesthunt,  co.  Hertford,  for 

Westminster.  not  appearing  to  answer  William  Neweport,  late  citizen  and  gold- 

smith of  London,  touching  a  debt  of  40/.  Hertford. 

Jan.  28.  Thomas  Scorin  of  the  parish  of  Tentyrden,  co.  Kent,  '  husbondman,' 

Westminster.  for  not  appearing  before  John  Prysot  and  his  fellows,  justices  of  the 

Bench  of  the  late  king,  to  answer  a  plea  that  he  render  100s.  to 
William  Sowethewyn  alias  Southewynd,  chaplain,  executor  of  the 
will  of  William  Porter,  clerk.  Surrey. 

Feb.  3.  William  Styward  of  Wodeell,  co.   Bedford,   '  husbondman,'  alias 

Westminster.  William  Steward  of  Wodehyll,  co.   Bedford,  ♦  bocher,'   for  not 


14  EDWARD  IV.— Part  I. 


437 


1475.  Membrane  25 — cont. 

appearing  beforo  Robert  Danby  and  his  fellows,  late  justices  of  tlic 
Bench,  to  answer  Roger  Salisbury,   esquire,  and  John  Worsley 
touching  debts  of  10  marks  and  40s.  respectively.  Bedford. 
Jan.  24.  Richard  Tumour  late  of  Selston,  co.  Nottingham,  '  yoman,'  for  not 

Westminster.  appearing  before  the   justices  of  the  Bench  to  answer  William 

Middilton,  esquire,  touching  a  debt  of  10/.  Nottingham. 


Membrane  24. 

Fel).  13.  John  Holyer  late  of  Hoc,  co.  Sussex,  '  laborer,'  .son  and  heir  of  Richard 

\\'estminster.  Holyer  late  of  the  parish  of  Hoo,  for  not  appciiring  before  Robert 

]3anby  and  his  fellows,  late  justices  of  the  Bench,  to  answer  Geoffrey 
Broker  son  of  Reginald  Broker  of  Hoo  touching  a  debt  of  40/. 

Sussex. 

Robert  Martyn  late  of  Spaldewyk,  co.  Huntingdon,  'yoman,'  alias  of 
Spaldyng,  for  not  appearing  before  the  justices  of  the  Bench  to 
answer  John  Cohkys,  clerk,  touching  a  debt  of  40/.  Oxford. 


1474. 

March  7. 
Westminster. 


March  7. 
Westminster. 


March  8. 
Westminster. 

March  9. 
Westminster. 


March  5. 
Westminster. 

INIarch  10. 
Westminster. 


Mem  BRA  XE  23. 

Grant  for  life  to  the  king's  esquire  William  Mulso  of  the  king's  manor  of 
Konyngton  alias  Coldkenyngton,  co.  Middlesex,  with  all  courts,  Icets, 
warrens  and  appurtenances,  to  hold  from  Michaelmas,  11  Edward  IV. 
rendering  to  tlu;  king  19/.  lOs.  yearly  and  20c?.  of  increment,  with  allowance 
at  the  Exchequer  for  any  grants  that  may  have  been  made  by  letters  patent 
from  the  issues  of  the  manor.  By  p.s. 

Grant  to  John  Wykes,  one  of  the  esquires  of  the  body,  and  Isabel  his 
wife  and  the  heirs  male  of  their  bodies,  for  his  good  .service  to  the  king  and 
his  father  Richard,  late  duke  of  York,  of  two  parts  of  the  manor  of  Rosso 
in  Holdcrnesse,  co.  York,  with  all  lands,  meadows,  feedings,  pastures,  rents, 
services  and  other  ap[)urrenances,  in  the  king's  hands  by  the  death  of  John 
Constable,  knight,  who  held  the  same  for  life  of  the  king's  grant,  to  hold  by 
knight  service.  By  p.s. 

ApiJointment,  until  7  September,  of  John  Elder,  yeoman  purveyor  of 
wheat  of  the  household,  to  piovide  wheat,  firewood  for  the  oven  and  multure 
for  the  expenses  of  the  household  and  carriage  ior  the  .same. 

By  bill  of  the  steward  of  the  household. 

]'rcs(!ntation  of  Tho.iias  Cowcton  to  the  church  or  chapel  of  St.  John 
Baptist,  Southbroke,  in  the  parish  of  Southweyld,  co.  Essex,  in  the  diocese 
of  London,  void  by  the  death  of  Johii  Johnson,  last  incumbent. 

Grant  to  GeoftVey  Fcrrour  (/f  a  yearly  rent  of  40*.  from  tin;  issues  of  the 
manor  or  lordship  of  Shulfnalc,  late  of  .fohn,  earl  of  Shrewsbury,  deceased, 
tenant  in  chief,  during  the  minority  of  George,  son  and  heir  of  the  latter, 
with  power  of  distraint.  By  K. 

Grant  to  Laurence,  bishop  of  Durham,  of  the  collation  to  the  next  vacant 
prebend  Avithin  the  king's  free  chapol  of  St.  Stephen  within  the  palace  of 
Westminster.  By  K. 

Revocation  of  the  protection  with  clause  vo/unins,  for  one  year,  granted 
on  23  February  last  by  letters  j)atent  to  John  Smyth,  citizen  and 
'  armurer  '  of  London,  alias  John  Lyndesey  of  London,  '  marchaunt,'  going 
on  the  king's  service  in  the  company  of  William,  lord  of  Hastinges, 
lieutenant  general  of  the  town  and  castle  ot  Calais  and  the  marches  tli'jre, 
on  the  siife-cufetody,  defence  and  victnallitig  of  the  same,  because  lu;  delays 
in  the  city  and  suburbs  of  London,  as  William  Stokkcr,  knight,  and  Robert 
Billesdon,  sheriffs,  have  certified. 


438 


CALENDAR  OF  PATENT  ROLLS. 


1474. 

March  5. 
Westminster. 


March  23, 
Westminster. 


March  8. 
Westminster. 


March  22. 
Westminster. 


March  12. 
Westminster. 


Membrane  23 — cont. 

Grant  for  life  to  the  king's  kinsman  Henry  Percy,  earl  of  Northumber- 
land, and  John  Wode,  esquire,  of  the  office  of  porter  of  the  king's  castle  of 
Newcastle  on  Tyne  and  fees  of  2.?.  daily  during  the  life  of  the  said  John 
from  the  issues  of  the  county  of  Northumberland,  and  the  office  of  constable 
of  the  said  castle  with  the  custody  of  the  prison  within  the  castle  and  the 
prisoners  there  and  wages  of  lOZ.  yearly  during  the  life  of  the  said  John 
from  the  issues  of  the  said  county ;  in  lieu  of  a  like  grant  to  the  said  John 
of  the  office  of  porter;  and  grant  to  the  said  earl  that  after  the  decease  of 
the  said  John  he  shall  receive  the  accustomed  fees  for  the  offices  of  porter 
and  constable  from  the  issues  of  the  said  county.  By  K. 

Mandate  to  the  sheriff  of  the  county  for  the  payment  of  the  said  2s.  daily 
and  lOZ.  yearly  during  the  life  of  the  said  John. 

Revocation  of  the  protection  with  clause  volumus,  for  one  year,  granted 
on  12  January  last  by  letters  patent  to  Nicholas  Stanbury,  clerk,  alias 
chaplain,  of  London,  going  on  the  king's  service  to  Ireland  in  the  company 
of  the  king's  brother  George,  duke  of  Clarence,  earl  of  Warwick  and 
Salisbury,  lord  of  Eichemond,  great  chamberlain  of  England  and  lieutenant 
of  Ireland,  on  the  safe-custody  of  that  land,  because  he  delays  in  the  city 
and  suburbs  of  London,  as  appears  by  certificate  of  the  sheriffs. 

Grant  to  the  pi'ior  and  friars  of  the  order  of  hermits  of  St.  Augustine 
in  tho  suburbs  of  Oxford,  on  account  of  their  poverty,  that  they  and  their 
successors  may  have  a  fair  of  all  kinds  of  merchandise  yearly  on  their  soil 
adjoining  their  church  in  the  said  suburbs  on  the  feast  and  vigil  of  St.  John 
before  the  Latin  Gate  and  the  four  days  following  and  a  court  of  pie- 
powder there  before  their  stewai'd,  with  all  liberties,  free  customs,  fines, 
issues  and  amercements  pertaining  to  such  fair,  provided  that  it  be  not  to 
the  harm  of  neighbouring  fairs,  and  that  they  may  appoint  a  person  learned 
in  the  law  of  the  land  as  their  steward,  who  shall  have  power  to  hear  and 
determine  trespasses  and  evil-doings  committed  within  the  fair  and  power 
of  arrest  and  imprisonment.  By  p.s. 

Presentation  of  William  Grove,  chaplain,  to  the  parish  church  of  Wyke 
Rusyngdon,  in  the  diocese  of  Worcester,  void  by  the  resignation  of  John 
Wakefeld,  last  incumbent,  and  in  the  king's  gift  by  reason  of  the  minority 
of  Francis  son  and  heir  of  John  Lovell,  late  lord  Lovell. 

Presentation  of  Thomas  Portyngton  to  the  parish  church  of  Partnall,  in 
the  diocese  of  Lincoln,  void  by  the  death  of  the  last  incumbent. 


Membrane  22. 

Grant  for  life  to  the  king's  servant  Robert  Untou,  one  of  the  yeomen  of 
the  crown,  of  the  office  of  bailiff  of  the  manor  and  lordship  of  Maunsfeld 
in  Shirwode,  co.  Nottingham,  with  the  custody  of  the  woods  of  the  same, 
with  wages  of  2d.  daily  from  the  receiver  of  the  lordship  and  all  other 
accustomed  profits,  provided  that  this  grant  of  2r7.  daily  shall  not  be  taken 
as  an  example.  By  p.s. 

Pardon  lo  Henry  Huchonson  late  of  the  township  of  Bondage  in 
C'oudcrton  within  the  parish  of  St.  Bede,  co.  Cumberland,  '  husbandman,' 
alias  '  milner,'  alias  '  laborer,'  alias  Henry  Hucheson,  '  yoman,'  of  his 
felony  in  killing  Christopher  Johnson,  '  bellcman,'  and  all  other  offences 
committed  by  him.  By  K. 

May  13.        Appointment,  during  pleasure,  of  Henry  Dauers  as  controller  of  the 
Westminster,  great  custom  and  the  subsidy  of  wools,  hides  and  wool-fells  in  the  port  of 
London  and  ports  and  places  adjacent,  receiving  the  accustomed  fees,  pro- 
vided that  he  execute  the  office  in  person,  Avith  the  custody  of  one  part  of 
the  coket  seal.  By  bill  of  the  treasurer. 


May  6. 
Westminster. 


May  11. 

Westminster. 


14  EDWARD  IV.— Part  I. 


439 


M.vy  14. 
Wcstmiustcr. 


May  16. 

WcsTininstcr. 


i\Iiiy  12. 
Wcstniiuster. 


May  23. 

Wcstiiiiiistei'. 


1474).  Membrane  22 — cotit. 

Mtiy  16.  Revocation  of  the  protection  Avith  clause  rolunms,  for  one  year,  granted 
AVestminstcr.  on  18  March  last  by  letters  patent  to  John  Langtpn,  citizen  and  saddler  of 
London,  alias  '  inarchaunt,'  staying  on  the  king's  service  in  the  company 
of  the  king's  brother  Richard,  duke  of  Gloucester,  constable  and  admiral  of 
England  and  guardian  of  the  west  marches  towards  Scotland,  on  the  safe- 
custody,  defence  and  victualling  of  the  said  marches,  because  he  delays  in 
the  city  and  suburbs  of  London,  as  William  Stokker,  knight,  and  Robert 
Billesdon,  sheriffs,  have  certified. 

Grant  to  Bartholomew  Bowne  during  the  minority  of  George,  oarl  of 
Shrewsbury,  of  the  office  of  parker  of  the  park  of  the  manor  of  Blakmer, 
CO.  Salop,  which  the  king's  kinsman  .John,  late  earl  of  Slirewsbury,  granted 
to  him  by  writing  under  his  seal  of  arms,  with  the  accustomed  fees  from  the 
issues  of  the  lordship  of  Blakmer  and  Whitechurche.  By  p.s. 

Grant  for  life  to  the  king's  esquire  Peter  Hous  of  the  king's  mansion  or 
plot  called  '  the  kynges  artery  '  with  all  houses,  cellars,  gardens  and  appur- 
tenances in  the  street  called  '  Lyme-strete '  within  the  city  of  London. 

By  p.s. 

General  pardon  to  William  Cook  late  of  Bury  St.  Edmunds,  co.  Suffolk, 
'  yoman,'  alias  late  of  Okfslde,  co.  Essex,  alias  late  of  Wyvenho,  co.  Essex, 
alias  William  Coke  late  of  Hithiiighani,  co.  Essex,  alius  late  of 
Tadyugston,  co.  Suffolk,  of  all  offences  committed  by  him  before  3  INIay. 

By  p.s. 

Grant  to  Thomas  Grcnc  of  the  custody  of  the  chace  of  Lokkesley, 
Ewdcn,  Agdeu  and  Bolsterston  within  Halamshire  during  the  minority  of 
the  king's  kinsman  (Jeorge,  earl  of  Siu'cwsbury,  with  the  accustomed  fees 
and  profits.  By  p.s. 

Grunt  to  .lolin  Brownehill  of  the  office  of  keeping  the  chacn  ol;  Rivelyng 
within  Halamshire  during  the  minority  of  tlie  king's  kinsman  George,  earl 
of  Shrewsbtuy,  with  the  accustomed  fees  and  profits.  By  p.s. 

May  16.  Grant  to  Laurence,  bishop  of  Durham,  chancellor  of  England,  William, 
Wcstmiustcr.  lord  Ilastynges,  the  king's  chamberlain,  Master  Peter  (Jourtenay,  the 
king's  secretary,  . I ohn  Parn;,  knight,  and  Thomas  Lute,  '  gentilnnin,'  and 
their  assigns  of  the  (collation  to  the  next  vaeant  canonry  and  prebend  in  the 
king's  free  chapel  or  collegiate  church  of  St.  Stephen  within  the  palace  of 
Westminster.  I}y  K. 

May  20.        Grant  for  life  to  the  king's  nurse  Anne  do  Caux,  on  account  of  her 
Wcstniiiister.  poverty,  of  the  sum  of  201.  yearly  at  the  receipt  of  the  Exchequer  from 
Midsummer  next  ut  the  hands  of  the  treasurer  and  chamberlains  of  the 
Exchequer.  By  K. 

MEMBRArfE  21. 

March  12.  Iiispcximus  and  confirmation  of  lett(!rs  patent  (English)  of  the  king's 
Wcitiuinster.  mother  Cecill,  duchess  of  York,  late  wife  unto  Richard,  rightful  king  °of 
England,  dated  at  her  castle  of  IJarkhamstcde,  IS  May,  12  Kd ward  IV. 
granting  lor  her  life  to  her  servant  Henry  Lassy  the  ollice  of  keeping  her 
park  of  Brymmesfelde  and  her  woods  lliere  called  IJiiclielde  with  the  profits 
and  '  advailes  '  of  the  arbage  and  pannage  within  llu;  park  and  tiie  accus- 
tomed fees  from  the  revenues  of  her  livelihood'  within  the  county  of 
Gloucester  ;  and  grant  to  the  said  Henry  of  the  said  office  for  life  on  the 
death  of  the  duchess  with  the  accustomed  fees  from  the  issues  of  the  manor 
of  Brymmesfelde,  co.  Gloucester,  and  all  other  profits. 

By  p.s.  and  for  IO5.  paid  in  the  Imnaper. 
March  26.  Grant  to  John  Ormond,  knight,  in  consideration  of  the  nobility  of  his 
Westminster.   f)lood  and  his  poverty,  of  the  sum  of  100/.  yearly  at  the  receipt  of  the 


440 


CALENDAR  OF  PATENT  ROLLS. 


1474. 


March  30. 
Westminster 


March  21. 
VVestminster, 


March  31. 
Westminster. 


May  3. 

Westminster. 

May  6. 

Westminster. 


■  May  8, 
Westminster. 


May  9. 

Westminster. 


May  10. 

Westminster. 


May  10. 

Westminster. 


Membrane  21 — cont. 

Exchequer  from  Michaelmas  last  at  the  hands  of  the  treasurer  and 
chamberlains  of  the  Exchequer  until  he  shall  otherwise  be  provided  for. 

By  K. 

Appointment  of  John  Parre,  kuight,  and  John  Sturgeon,  esquire,  to 
take  muster  at  some  place  near  Suthwark  of  13  men  at  arms  and  1,000 
archers  whom  the  king  has  ordered  to  be  sent  beyond  the  seas  to  his 
brother  Charles,  duke  of  Burgundy,  and  to  certify  thereon  to  tlie  king  and 
council.    \_Fcedera.']  By  K. 

Grant  to  Humphrey  Talbot,  knight  of  the  body,  of  an  annuity  of 
40/.  from  the  issues  of  the  manors  or  lordships  of  Blakraer  and  Whitchurch, 
CO.  Salop,  during  the  minority  of  George,  son  and  heir  of  .John,  late  earl  of 
Shrewsbury,  Tvith  power  of  distraint.  By  p.s. 

Grant  to  Ralph  Hastynges,  knight  of  the  body,  during  the  minority  of 
of  Francis,  lord  Lovell,  of  the  stewardship  of  the  lordship  of  Titmersh, 
CO.  Northampton,  with  the  disposal  of  the  bailiwick  of  the  same,  which  he 
had  of  the  grant  of  lady  Lovell,  lately  deceased,  receiving  the  accustomed 
fees  from  the  issues  of  the  lordship,  with  all  profits.  By  p.s. 

General  pardon  to  Thomas  Percy  late  of  Estretford,  co.  Nottingham, 
'yoman.'  By  p.s. 

General  pardon  to  John  Duppa  alias  Mothewey  late  of  Kyngestou,  co. 
Hereford,  '  laborer,'  of  all  offences  committed  by  him  before  2  May. 

By  p.s. 

Grant  to  the  king's  servant  Master  Thomas  Pallet,  confessor  of  the 
household,  of  a  prebend  in  the  king's  collegiate  chapel  of  St.  George  within 
the  castle  of  Wyndesore,  void  by  the  death  of  Master  Payn  Brughill,  last 
prebendary.  By  p.s. 

Mandate  in  pursuance  to  the  dean  of  the  chapel. 

Pardon  to  Walter  Courtenay  of  Exeter,  co.  Devon,  esquire,  late  escheator 
in  the  counties  of  Devon  and  Cornwall,  of  all  offences  committed  by  him 
and  all  lines,  amercements,  issues,  debts,  accounts  and  arrears  due  from  him 
to  the  king.  By  p.s. 

Revocation  of  the  protection  with  clause  volumus,  for  one  year,  lately 
granted  by .  letters  patent  to  John  Milleward  late  of  Nonne  Eton,  co. 
Warwick,  'gentilman,'  alias  John  Eton  late  of  London,  '  mercei',' 
John  Eyton,  '  marchaunt,'  staying  on  the  king's  service  in  the  company  of 
the  king's  kinsman  William,  lord  of  Hastynges,  lieutenant  general  of  the 
town,  castle  and  marches  of  Calais,  because  he  delays  at  Nonne  Eton,  as 
appears  by  certificate  of  the  sheriff"  of  the  county. 

General  pardon  to  eJohn  Kendale  late  of  Westminster,  notary,  alias 
'  scryveuer,'  alias  '  yoman,'  alias  late  of  York,  clerk,  of  all  offences  com- 
mitted by  him  before  11  April  last.  By  p.s. 


Membrane  20, 

April  14.        Licence  for  the  prior  and  convent  of  the  monastery  of  Wynchecombe,  of 
Leicester.     the  order  of  St.  Benedict,  to  elect  an  abbot  in  the  place  of  William 
Wynchecombe,  deceased.  By  p.s. 

April  14.  Presentation  of  Master  Thomas  Portyngtou  to  the  parish  church  of 
Leicester.     Baldok,  in  the  diocese  of  Lincoln. 

April  16.  General  pardon  to  Ralph  Goold  late  of  Perwych,  co.  Derby,  'laborer,'  of 
Nottingham,   all  offences  committed  by  him  before  27  March  last.  By  K. 

April  16.  Grant  for  life  to  the  king's  councillor  John  Audeley  of  Audeley,  knight, 
Nottingham,    for  his  gocd  service  and  for  his  attendances  on  the  king's  person  and  in 


14  EDWARD  IV.— Part  I. 


441 


1474.  Membrane  20 — cont. 

council,  of  a  j'carly  rent  or  pension  of  100/.  from  the  customs  and  subsidies 
of  the  ports  of  Southampton  and  Pole.  By  K. 

April  17.       Grant  for  life  to  the  king's  sei^vant  John  Eh-ington,  esquire,  clerk  of  the 
Nottingham,   hanaper,  of  a  yearly  rent  of  40/.  from  Michaelmas  last  from  tlie  issues  of 
the  hanaper.  By  K. 

April  21.       Grant  to  William  Eyre  of  the  office  of  parker  of  the  park  of  Sheffeld, 
Nottingham,   co.  York,  parcel  of  the   possessions  of  John,  late  earl  of  Shrewsbury, 
tenant  in  chief,  during  the  minority  of  George,  son  and  heir  of  the  said 
earl,  receiving  the  accustomed  fees  from  the  issues  of  the  lordship  of 
ShelFeld  with  all  other  profits.  By  p.s. 

April  16.       Grant  to  the  king's  servitor  John  Elryngton,  cofferer  of  the  household, 
Nottingham,   of  the  manor  of  Higham  alias  Hiham,  co.  Sussex,  which  Nicholas  Lathell 
now  occupies  at  I'arm  at  the  king's  pleasure  rendering  26s.  8d.  yearly,  to 
hold  for  the  next  20  years  at  a  rent  of  405.  yearly.  By  K. 

April  20.  Grant  to  the  king's  esquire  John  Acton,  one  of  the  ushers  of  the  chamber, 
Nottingham,  anil  liis  heirs  male  of  the  manor  or  lordship  of  Braunceston  alias  Braunston 
Bury  with  all  lands  and  tenements  and  other  appurtenances  within  the 
county  of  Northampton,  lately  belonging  to  Thomas,  late  lord  of  lloos, 
attainted  of  high  treason  in  Parliament,  4  Novombei',  1  Edward  IV.  and 
forfeited  for  that  cau.=c,  which  William  Higford,  es([uiro,  lately  had  of  the 
king's  grant  and  is  now  in  the  king's  hands  by  virtue  of  an  act  in  the 
present  Parliament,  to  hold  with  warrens,  woods,  pastures,  meadows,  leets, 
franchises  and  privileges  and  the  advow.son  of  the  church  of  Braunceston 
from  Michaelmas  last  by  the  accustomed  rents  and  services.  By  p.s. 

April  20.  Grant  for  life  to  the  king's  servant  Walter  Mathewe,  yeoman  of  the 
Nottingham,  pantry  for  the  king's  mouth,  of  a  tenement  called  '  Fermanes  tenement' 
with  certain  lands  pertaining  to  it  within  the  town  of  Moresley,  co. 
Worcester,  forfeited  by  James  Ormond,  late  earl  of  Wiltshire,  attainted  of 
high  treason  in  Parliament  at  Westminster,  4  March  (sic),  I  Edward  IV. 
which  Alexander  Holte,  lately  deceased,  had  for  life  of  the  king's  grant  by 
letters  patent,  to  hold  with  all  duties,  profits,  commodities  and  '  advailes  ' 
{avantagiis)  by  the  accustomed  rents  and  services.  By  p.s.  [3877.] 

Grant,  during  pleasure,  to  the  king's  servitor  Thomas  Byngham  of  the 
office  of  receiver  of  the  king's  castles,  manors  or  lordships  of  Horeston, 
Bollesover  and  Chestrofeld,  co.  Derby,  and  fee-farms  and  rents  in  the  towns 
ofMaunsfeld,  Lyndcley,  Edyngstowe,  Kyngesclipeston,  Bulleswell,  Derleton, 
Kagenhnll,  Arnall,  Rctibrd,  Bacoford  and  Notyngham,  co.  Nottingham,  and 
all  other  castles,  manor.s,  lordsliii)s  and  rents  in  the  said  towni  and  counties, 
receiving  10  marks  yearly  at  his  own  hands.  By  p.s. 

General  pardon  to  Thomas  Lenay  alias  Lynay  alias  Lyghnay  late  of 
AVliatton,  co.  Nottingham,  '  laborer,'  alias  *  servaunt.'  By  K. 

Grant  for  life  to  the  king's  servant  and  esquire  Edmund  Tankard  of 
the  oflicn  of  crier  of  the  King's  Bench,  which  llobcrt  Stathum  lately  had  by 
letters  patent  and  which  is  in  the  king's  gift  because  the  said  Kobert 
forsook  his  duty  and  allegiance,  and  made  himself  subject  and  liegeman  to 
to  llcury  VI.  and  occupied  the  otiic(>  in  his  name  during  the  king's  absence 
from  the  reahn,  to  hold  witii  the  accustomed  fees  and  other  profits. 

By  p.  s.  [3887.] 

Ajiril  2.3.       Grant  for  life  to  Joiin  Hunter  of  Ilatfeld  of  the  office  of  bailiff  of  the 
Nottingham,    town  of  Dancastre  with  the  appurtenances  and  appendages  of  the  same 
with  the  accustomed  fees  from  the  issues  of  the  king's  lordship  of  Dancastre 
and  all  other  profits.  By  p.s. 


April  22. 
Nottingham. 


April  23. 

Nottingham. 

April  22. 
Nottingham. 


442 


CALENDAR  OP  PATENT  ROLLS. 


1474. 

March  7. 
Westmiuster. 


July  9. 
Westmiuster. 


Membrane  20 — cont. 

Grant  for  life  to  William  riecchei-,  one  of  the.  yeomen  of  the  crown,  and 
Richard  Besege,  keepers  of  the  king's  park  of  Beskewode,  co.  Nottingham, 
in  part  recompence  of  the  losses  which  they  have  sustained  in  the  king's 
service,  of  Ad.  daily  from  Michaelmas  last  from  the  serjeanty  or  rent 
of  serjeanty  of  the  counties  of  Nottingham  and  Derby.  By  p.s. 

General  pardon  to  Tliomas  Shippeman  late  of  Roigate,  co.  Surrey, 
'  pedelcr,'  alias  Thomas  Sheppeman,  '  yoman,'  alias  Thomas  Baret, 
'  whilewright,'  alias  Thomas  Shipman  late  of  Woxbrigge,  co.  Middlesex, 
'  mercer.'  By 


Membrane  19. 

June  2.        General  pardon  to  John  Richardson  son  of  Richard  Robynson  of  Nuby 
Westminster,  of  the  Stones,  co.  AYestmorelaud,  '  yoman,'  of  all  offences  committed  by 
him  before  3 1  May  last.  By  p.s. 

May  22.        Mandate  to  the  escheator  in  the  county  of  Oxford  for  the  restitution  of 
Westminster,  the  temporalities  of  the  abbey  of  St.  Kenelm,  "Wynchecombe,  of  the  order 
of  St.  Benedict,  to  Thomas  Twynnyng,  monk  of  the  house,  whose  election 
as  abbot  John,  bishop  of  Worcester,  has  confirmed,  and  whose  fealty  the 
king  has  taken.  By  p.s. 

The  like  to  the  escheators  in  the  following  counties  : — 
Gloucester  and  the  march  of  Wales  adjacent. 
Warwick. 

The  like  to  John  Tate,  mayor  of  London,  escheator  in  that  city. 
Writ  de  intcndendo  in  pursuance  to  the  tenants. 

June  1 .        General  pardon  to  Robert  ap  Guillim  ap  Thomas  late  of  Wilton,  co. 
Westminster.  Hereford,  '  gentilman,'  of  all  offences  committed  by  him  before  the  feast 
of  St.  George  last.  By  p.s. 

June  2.  Grant  to  John  Swyfte  of  the  office  of  receiver  of  Halomshire  iiud 
Westminster.  Wirksop  in  the  counties  of  York  and  Nottingham  during  the  minority  of 
.George,  earl  of  Shrewsbury,  with  the  accustomed  fees  and  profits.    By  p.s. 

June  2.  General  pardon  to  John  Cornwaill  of  Totcnham,  co.  Middlesex, 
Westminster.  '  laborer,'  of  all  offences  committed  by  him  before  28  May  last.        By  p.s. 

May  14.        Grant  to  John  Andrewe  of  the  office  of  warrener  of  Broodheth  in  the 
Westminster,  lordship  of  Biakmer  and  Whitechurche,  co.  Salop,  in  the  king's  gift  by 
reason  of  the  minority  of  George,  earl  of  Shrewsbury,  during  the  minority 
of  any  of  the  lieirs  of  John,  late  earl  of  Shrewsbury,  with  the  accustomed 
fees  from  the  issues  of  the  lordship.  By  p.s. 

June  3.  Grant  to  William  Downton  of  the  office  of  bailiff  of  the  manor  and 
Westminster,  lordship  of  Biakmer,  CO.  Salop,  in  the  king's  hands  by  reason  of  llie 
minority  of  George,  earl  of  Shrewsbury,  which  office  the  king's  kinsman 
John,  late  earl  of  Shrewsbury,  giranted  to  bim  for  life  by  a  writing  sealed 
Avitli  his  seal  of  arms,  to  hold  so  long  as  the  manor  and  lordshii)  remain  in 
the  king's  hands  by  reason  of  tlie  minority  of  any  heir  of  the  said  late  earl 
with  the  accustomed  fees  from  the  issues  of  the  same.  By  p.s. 

June  4.        Grant  for  life  to  tlie  king's  servant  Thomas  Aldersey,  one  of  the  yeoman 
Westminster,  of  the  crown,  of  the  oilices  of  bailiff  of  the  borough  or  town  of  Ciiestrefeid 
and  the  king's  lordship  of  Skaresdale,  co.  Derby,  with  the  office  Ciillcd 
'  Kyngesbaylywyk '  of  the  same  borough  and  lordship,  with  all  com- 
modities, liberties  and  demises  of  farms,  receiving  the  accustomed  fees. 

By  p.s 

May  20.  Pardon  to  Thomas  Salle  for  the  death  of  John  Estcote,  for  which  he  is 
Westminster,  detained  in  the  gaol  of  Launceueton  castle,  as  it  appears  by  the  record  of 


14  EDWARD  IV.— Part  I. 


443 


1474.  Membrane  19 — eont. 

John  Penfoun,  one  of  the  coroners  in  the  county  of  Cornwall,  that  he  killed 
him  in  self-defence. 

.Tunc  3.  Grant  for  life  to  the  king's  servant  John  Stanbrige,  one  of  the  yeoman 
Wcstmiuster.  of  the  king's  chamber,  of  the  cffice  of  tlie  custody  of  the  king's  lodge  of 
Immcslowe  in  the  north  bailiwick  within  the  forest  of  Shyrwode  and  of 
being  one  of  the  king's  foresters  there,  to  hold  by  himself  or  a  deputy 
agreeable  to  the  master  of  the  king's  game,  with  wages  of  4rf.  daily  from 
the  issues  of  the  king's  lordship  of  Maunsfeld  in  Shyrwode  and  the  soke  of 
the  same  and  all  other  accustomed  profits,  provided  that  this  grant  of  Ad 
daily  shall  not  be  taken  as  a  precedent.  By  p.s.  [3886]. 

May  20.  Pardon  to  John  Quans  of  Bernestaple,  co.  Devon,  '  yoman,'  of  his 
^N'citiriinster.  outlaAvry  in  the  county  of  Somerset  for  not  appearing  before  llobert 
Danby  and  his  fellows,  late  justices  of  the  Bench,  to  satisfy  Richard 
Burton  of  40/.  which  the  latter  recovered  against  him  and  10  marks 
damages,  he  having  surrendered  to  the  Flete  pri.son  and  satisfied  the  said 
Richard,  as  Thomas  Bryan,  chief  justice  of  the  Bench,  has  certified, 

]\Tay  20.        Prosontation  of  Richard  Geffereys,  chaplain  of  the  chapel  of  Tunnervs- 
Wcsimiiister.  piilil],  in    the   diocese  of  Salisbury,  to  the  parish  church  of  (^odford 
St.  Peter,  in  the  .same  diocese,  in  the  king's  gift  l.'y  icason  of  the  minority 
of  George  Talbot,  .son  and  heir  of  John,  late  earl  of  Shrewsbury,  tenant  in 
chief,  on  an  exchange  of  benefices  with  Thomas  Prowte.  By  p.s. 

July  5.  General  pardon  to  Henry  Belle  alias  Bilde  late  of  Basyngstoke,  co. 
Westminster.  Southampton,  '  glover.' 

July  13.        Appointment  of  Thomas  Gale  as  deputy  of  the  king'.s  kinsman  Anthonj', 
WestmiiLster.  carl  Ryvcrs,  chief  butler  of  England,  in  the  port  of  Dertmuthe  and  ports 
and  places  adjacent.  By  bill  of  the  chief  butler. 

Membrane  18. 

May  2f).  Exemption  for  life  of  the  king's  kinsman  Fulk,  lord  Fitz  Warcyn,  from 
Wcstiiiiiister.  attending  in  ])ers()n  on  the  king  by  any  writ  under  the  groat  or  privy  seal 
or  signet  letter  or  other  mandate  of  the  king  for  any  council  or  Parliament 
and  from  being  made  justice  of  the  jjcace,  of  sewers,  of  oyer  and  terminer 
of  gaol  delivery  or  of  the  forest  or  other  commissioner  of  the  king  against 
his  will.  By  K 

Mn)'  26.  Licence  for  Nicholas  Coveley,  'gentilman,'  Hugh  Lewes,  clerk,  William 
Westminster.  Harpour,  'gentilman,'  Richard  Uarpour,  '  gentilman,'  .fohn  Mervyn, 
'yoman,'  and  John  Coveley  to  found  a  perpetual  chantry  of  one  chaplain  to 
celebrate  divine  service  daily  in  the  parish  church  of  Swynford  or  any 
other  church  or  consecrated  place  that  may  please  them  for  the  good  estate 
of  the  king  and  his  consort  Elizabeth,  queen  of  England,  and  his  first  born 
son  Edward,  prince  of  Wales,  duke  of  Cornwall  and  earl  of  Chester,  and 
the  said  founders  and  for  their  souls  afler  death  and  the  souls  of  Matilda 
late  the  wife  of  the  said  Nicholas,  Thomas  Coveley  and  Alice  his  wife, 
William  Coveley  and  Margaret  his  wil'e,  John  JIarpour  and  Eleanor  his 
wife,  Thomas  Thurston,  clerk,  Thomas  Davy  and  Joan  his  wife,  Richard 
Smyth  and  Alice  his  wife  and  John  Wcnte  and  JNIargaret  his  wife  and  to 
do  other  things  according  to  their  ordinance,  to  be  called  the  chaj)lain  of 
the  chantry  of  Nicholas  Coveley  of  Swyndford,  co,  Leicester,  and  for  the 
S.I  id  chaplain  and  his  successors  to  ac<[uire  in  mortmain,  af  ter  inquisition 
lands,  rents  and  services,  not  held  in  chief,  to  the  value  of  10  marks  yearly.' 

By  p.s,  and  for  10  marks  paid  in  the  hanaper. 
May  21.        Pardon  to  Richard  Vayle  of  Idelstre,  co.  Hertford,  'laborer,'  alias  of 
Westmiiisicr.  Idelstrc,  CO,  Middlesex,  of  his  outlawries  in  the  counties  of  Hertford  and 
Middlesex  for  not  appearing  with  others  before  the  king  to  satisfy  him  of 


444 


CALENDAR  OF  PATENT  ROLLS. 


1474.  Membrane  18 — cont. 

their  ransom  for  a  trespass  against  William  Barton,  he  having  surrendered 
to  the  Marshalsea  prison,  as  Thomas  Billyng,  chief  justice  of  the  King's 
Bench,  has  certified. 

.Tune  13.  General  pardon  to  Humphrey  Cotes  the  elder  late  of  Wodecote,  co. 
Westminster.  Salop,  '  gentilman,'  of  all  offences  committed  by  him  before  25  May  last. 

By  p.s. 

June  15.       Exemplification,  at  the  request  of  Walter  Devereux,  lord  Ferrers,  of  the 
Westminster,  tenour  of  the  enrolment  of  letters  patent  dated  30  May,  8  Edward  IV.  {see 
p.  f)5),  granting  to  him  the  custody  of  the  possessions  of  Roger  Corbet,  knight, 
and  the  custody  and  marriage  of  Richard  Corbet  his  sou  and  heir.  These 
letters  have  been  lost  by  accident,  as  Richard  Moton  has  taken  oath  in 
Chancery,  and  will  be  surrendered  if  found. 
June  25.        Grant  for  life  to  John  Audley  of  Audley,  knight,  in  lieu  of  a  like  grant 
Westminster,  to  John  Wroth,  esquire,  by  letters  patent  dated  17  July,  1  Edward  IV. 

surrendered,  of  the  office  of  master  of  the  king's  hounds  called  *  herers '  and 
wages  of  \2d.  daily  from  the  issues  of  the  counties  of  Bedford  and  Buck- 
ingham, and  also  other  wages,  viz.  Ad.  daily  for  a  yeoman  '  barners '  and 
3jr7.  daily  for  his  horse,  2d.  daily  for  eacii  of  two  yeomen  '  barners  '  and 
two  yeoman  '  veautrers,'  \\d.  daily  for  each  of  two  grooms  of  the  latter 
office  and  \d.  daily  for  the  puture  of  each  of  36  running  hounds  {camim 
currentiiDii)  and  9  greyhounds  {leporuriorum)  from  the  issues  of  the 
subsidy  and  ulnage  of  cloth  in  the  counties  of  Somerset  and  Dorset  and  a 
moiety  of  the  forfeiture  of  the  same,  Avith  all  other  profits  pertaining  to  the 
office.  By  p.s. 

Membrane  17. 

July  1.  Exemplification,  at  the  request  of  William  Shctford,  of  the  tenours  of  the 
Westminster,  following : — 

1.  A  petition  (English)  of  the  said  William,  cousin  and  heir  to  Joan  one 
of  the  sisters  and  heirs  of  William  Bruyen,  knight,  in  the  Par- 
liament summoned  at  Westminster,  6  October,  12  Edward  IV.  and 
continued  by  divers  prorogations  to  6  October,  13  Edward  IV.  that 
whereas  Edward  Shetford,  '  ayel '  to  the  said  William,  who  is  his 
heir  as  son  of  Piers  his  son,  was  seised  in  his  demesne  as  of  fee  of 
the  half'endell  of  the  manors  of  Trecorn,  Hamet,  Douenant,  Deliowe, 
Deliowboll,  Dcliowboleyn,  Deliowcarboleyn  and  Lamelyn  with  their 
appurtenances,  co.  Cornwall,  and  died  seised  of  the  same,  and  on 
his  death  the  same  descended  to  the  said  Piers  as  his  son  and  heir, 
who  entered  into  and  was  seised  of  the  same  until  he  was  disseisecl 
by  Thomas  Bodulgate,  cousin  and  heir  to  Alice  the  other  of  the 
sisters  and  heirs  to  the  said  William  Bruyen,  knight,  who,  because 
he  had  title  to  one  half  of  the  manors  and  was  of  great  might  in  the 
shire  and  understood  well  that  the  said  Piers  was)  poor  and  had  no 
might  or  friendship  in  the  said  shire,  entered  into  the  said  whole 
manors  and  made  feoffment  of  them  to  certain  persons  who  made 
estate  again  to  him  and  Elizabeth  bis  wife  and  his  heirs,  and  after- 
wards the  said  petitioner  entered  into  the  said  halfendell  as  son  and 
heir  to  the  said  Piers,  and  the  said  Thomas  died  at  the  field  of 
Ilarnet  and  the  said  Elizabeth  took  to  husband  John  Welles,  and 
these  wrongfully  claiming  the  whole  manors  to  be  her  jointure  have 
entered  into  the  said  halfendell  and  they  and  Isabel  Rescarek, 
widow,  and  Joan  Coryngtou,  widow,  have  wrongfully  disseised  the 
petitioner,  the  commons  should  pray  the  king  to  ordain  that  the 
chancellor  calling  to  him  the  justices  of  either  Bench  should  examine 
the  title  and  right  to  the  said  halfendell  and  make  award 
accordingly. 


14  EDWARD  IV.— Pabt  I. 


445 


14)74).  Membrane  17 — cont. 

2,  The  response  of  the  king  at  the  request  of  the  commons  by  authority 
of  Parliament : — Soit  fait  come  il  est  desire. 

[Rolls  of  Parliament,  VI.  70.] 
July  2.  Grant  to  Anfrionus  de  Spynellis  and  Louis  de  Grymoldys,  merchants  of 
Westminster.  Genoa,  in  repayment  of  tlie  sum  of  1,500^.  due  to  them  from  the  king  for 
moneys  lent,  as  appears  in  the  receipt  of  the  Exchequer,  that  they  or  their 
executors  after  their  decease  or  their  factors  or  attorneys  may  ship  sacks 
and  bales  of  wool,  woollen  cloths,  pieces  of  tin  and  fodders  of  lead  of  their 
own  goods  or  the  goods  of  other  merchants  of  Genoa  in  the  ports  of 
London,  Sandwich  and  Southampton  and  take  the  wools  by  the  straits  of 
Marrok  and  the  woollen  cloths,  tin  and  lead  to  any  foreign  parts  and  bring 
back  other  merchandise  of  their  own  or  other  merchants  of  Genoa  to  the 
said  ports  quit  of  customs  and  subsidies  (on  the  wools  to  the  amount  of 
4  marks  on  each  sack)  until  they  shall  thus  be  fully  satisfied  of  the  said 
sum  of  1,500/.  By  p.s. 

June  29.        Grant  to  John  Boteler,  for  405.  paid  to  the  king,  of  the  custody  of  all 
Westmin.ster.  lands  late  of  Robert  Thenise,  tenant  in  chief  by  knight  service,  and  in  the 
king's  hands  on  his  death  or  the  death  of  Agnes  his  niotlicr,  durin"-  the 
minority  of  William  Themse  his  son  and  heir  witli  the  marriage  of  the 
latter  without  disparagement,  and  so  from  heir  to  heir.  By  p.s. 

j\[embuane  16. 

June  28.  Whereas  by  letters  patent  dated  8  April  last  the  king  granted  to  tlie 
Westminster,  merchants  of  the  city  of  Cologne  in  Alraain,  who  have  and  in  times  past 
have  had  among  other  merchants  of  Almain  the  house  in  the  city  of 
London  commonly  called  Gildehalla  Thcutonicorum,  that  from  Easter  last 
until  31  July  next  throughout  the  whole  realm  of  England  and  other  places 
subject  to  the  king  they  should  enjoy  their  ancient  privileges,  liberties  and 
free  customs  and  they  and  their  factors,  attorneys  and  servants  should  be 
quit  of  all  subsidies,  saving  to  the  king  his  ancient  prises  and  cu.-^tonis,  and 
no  merchant  of  the  said  city  should  be  arrested  (or  any  debt  for  which  he 
was  not  a  pledge  or  a  principal,  provided  that  tliey  should  depart  from  the 
said  house  and  the  house  of  their  habitation  called  '  h;  Styleyerd '  in  the 
said  city  before  1  July ;  the  king  nevertheless  grants  licence  for  them  or 
their  factors,  attorneys  or  servants  to  occupy  the  said  houses  until  31  .July 
unless  in  the  meantime  they  shall  receive  any  mandate  to  the  contrary  from 
him.  By  K. 

June  IG.  Commission  to  John  Clerk,  second  baron  of  the  FLxche(|uer,  John  Isnak 
Westmiuster.  John  Bamme,  Thomas  Nicholas,  Roger  Brent  and  Jolm  Nedvrsole  to  eiKiuire 
into  the  conqjlaint  of  Jolm  Davy,  esquire,  and  Robert  Dro])c  tiiat  wiiereas 
.John  Davy,  esquire,  on  4  March,  1  Edward  IV.  and  afterwards  was  seised 
in  liis  demesne  as  of  fee  of  a  messuage,  a  garden  and  40  acres  of  land  in  tl}e 
parish  of  Birchyngton  in  the  Isle  of  Thanct,  co.  Kent,  and  enfeoffed 
Hugh  Egerley,  chaplain,  Richard  Cranune  of  Canterbury,  co.  Kent,  '  wex- 
chaundeler,'  Thomas  Smyth  of  Garlyng  in  the  said  Isle  and  William  Iloi'e 
clerk,  of  the  same  and  these  were  seised  of  the  same  in  their  demesne  as  of 
fe 


same  in  time  of  peace  and  received  the  esplees  thereof,  by  an  inquisition 
taken  at  Strode,  co.  Kent,  on  25  October,  5  Edward  IV.  before  Robert 
Shordich,  then  eschcator  in  the  county,  by  virtue  of  his  office  it  was  found 
that  Henry  Beauford,  late  duke  of  Somerset,  attjiinted  by  virtue  of  an 
act  of  Parliament  at  Westminster,  4  November,  1  Edward  IV.  was  sei.sed 
of  a  messuage,  a  dovecote  and  450  acres  of  land  in  Birchyngton  and 


446 


CALENDAR  OF  PATENT  ROLLS. 


1474.  Membrane  16 — cont. 

Monketoii  in  the  Isle  of  Thauet,  co.  Kent,  worth  100^'.  yearly  and  held  of 
the  prior  of  Christ  Church,  Canterbury,  in  his  demesne  as  of  fee,  and  the 
said  messuage,  garden  and  40  acres  of  land  were  taken  into  the  king's 
hands  by  tlie  said  escheator  as  parcel  of  the  above,  i'orfeited  to  the  king, 
and  the  said  abbot,  Thomas,  John  and  Robert  removed  from  possession, 
and  by  letters  patent  dated  18  July^  8  Edward  IV,  (see  p.  108),  the  king 
granted  the  said  messuage,  dovecote  and  450  acres  of  land  to  John  Broke- 
man,  esquire,  who  is  still  seised  of  the  same  in  his  demesne  as  of  fee  tail, 
but  that  the  said  Henry  Beauford  never  had  any  right  in  the  said  messuage, 
garden  and  40  acres  of  land,  Avhereforc  they  pray  that  justice  may  be  done. 

By  p.H. 

June  25.  Whereas  on  10  August,  11  Edward  IV.  by  letters  patent  the  king 
Westminster,  granted  his  free  chapel  v/ithin  his  castle  of  Tikliill,  parcel  of  the  duchy  of 
Lancaster,  to  Leonard  Say,  son  of  John  Say,  knight,  for  life  with  all  profits, 
commodities  and  emoluments  ;  and  afterwards  on  14  June,  14  Edward  IV. 
by  other  letters  patent  he  granted  the  said  free  chapel  and  the  custody 
thereof,  whenever  it  should  become  void  by  the  death  of  the  said  Leonard, 
or  otherwise,  to  Thomas,  now  prior,  and  the  convent  of  the  monastery  of 
Holy  Trinity,  Lenton  by  Notynygliam,  of  the  Cluniac  order,  in  the  diocese 
of  York,  in  frank  almoin  with  all  lands,  rents,  services,  advowsons,  rights, 
profits,  commodities,  liberties,  franchises  and  other  appurtenances,  in 
recompence  for  their  chapel  of  St.  Mary  called  '  le  Roche  '  and  all  lands 
belonging  to  them  within  the  pale  of  the  king's  new  park  there  and  for 
two  closes  called  'le  Roche  closes'  on  the  .south  side  of  tlie  water  of  Leene 
opposite  the  chapel  and  two  little  parcels  of  meadow  adjoining,  lately 
granted  by  them  to  the  king,  and  for  the  release  of  three  cartloads  of  wood 
daily  in  Beskewode  and  within  the  king's  forest  of  Shirwode  which  their 
predecessors  had  in  their  original  foundation ;  the  king  hereby  grants 
licence  for  them  to  appropriate  and  unite  the  said  chapel  with  all  its  lands 
and  other  appurtenances  to  their  monastery  and  hold  it  in  frank  almoin  to 
their  own  uses  without  fine  or  fee.  By  p.s. 

June  30.        Grant  for  life  to  the  king's  servant  Roger  Wylkyuson,  one  of  the  yeomen 
Westminster,  of  the  king's  chamber,  of  the  office  of  bailiff  of  Shelford,  co.  Nottingham, 
with  the  accustomed  fees,  in  the  same  maimer  as  John  Galon  or  any  other 
occupant  of  the  office.  By  p.s. 


Membuane  15. 

May  12.  Licence  for  Thomas,  bishop  of  Lincoln,  keeper  of  the  privy  seal,  Jolm 
Westminster.  Rotheram  and  John  Acworth,  esquires,  John  Lammer,  clerk,  Thomas 
Kyppyng,  Richard  Stoppusley,  .lohn  Thralc  tlic  elder,  Thomas  Perot  the 
el(l(!r,  William  Bradweye,  .lohn  Well,  Richartl  Prat,  Tliomas  Smyth  and 
William  Kyrwyn,  parishioners  of  the  parish  cliurcli  of  St.  Marj'-,  Luyton, 
CO.  Bedford,  to  found  a  fraternity  or  gild  of  a  master,  two  wardens  and  the 
brethren  and  sisters  of  the  parishioners  of  the  said  parish  and  others  who 
may  wish  to  be  of  the  same  fraternity  in  the  said  churcli.  The  master, 
wardens  and  brethren  and  sisters  shall  have  power  to  augment  the  said 
fraternity  or  gild  whenever  they  may  think  fit,  and  each  year  on  Sunday 
after  Holy  'L'rinity  they  shall  elect  a  master  and  two  wardens  for  the 
business  and  governance  of  the  gild,  and  they  shall  form  a  corporate  body 
and  shall  have  perpetual  succession  and  a  common  seal  and  power  of 
acquiring  lands  and  other  possessions  and  of  impleading  and  being 
impleaded  by  the  name  of  the  fraternity  or  gild  of  Holy  Trinity,  Luyton, 
and  of  making  ordinances  for  the  governance  of  the  gild.  Grant  also  of 
licence  for  the  master,  wardens,  brethren  and  sisters  to  found  a  chantry  of 
two  chaplains  to  celebrate  divine  service  for  the  good  estate  of  the  king 


14  EDWARD  IV.— Part  I. 


447 


1474. 


June  21. 

\Vc.stminstc'r. 


Juno  10. 
Westinin.'itcr. 


.Tnnc  IG. 

WoSlIllillStlT. 


Juno  22. 
Wfstiniiistcr. 


.rune  28. 
W'ustuiiiistcr. 


.Tune  27. 

>V  ostmiiistor. 


June  2S. 
VVestiniiistcr. 

July  13. 
Weitminster. 


Membrane  15 — cont, 
and  his  consort  Elizabeth,  queen  of  England,  and  the  said  brethren  and 
sisters  and  for  their  souls  after  death  and  the  soul  of  the  king's  father 
llichard,  late  duke  of  York,  and  the  king's  progenitors  at  the  altar  of  the 
Holy  Trinit}'  iu  the  south  part  of  the  said  church  according  to  the  ordinance 
of  the  said  bishop  and  others,  and  to  acquire  in  mortmain  lands,  tenements, 
rents  and  possessions,  not  held  iu  chief,  to  the  value  of  20/.  yearly  for  the 
sustenance  of  the  said  chaplains  and  in  augmentation  of  the  sustenance  of 
five  clerks  chanting  matins,  mass  and  vespers  in  the  said  church. 

By  p.s.  and  for  72/.  paid  in  the  hanaper. 

Mandate  to  all  bailiffs  and  others  to  permit  John  Nicoll,  chaplain,  born 
at  All)er<lcn  in  Scotland,  dwelling  at  Rodmersham,  co.  Kent,  wiio  has  taken 
an  oath  of  fealty,  to  inhabit  the  realm  peaceably  and  enjoy  his  goods. 

By  K. 

The  like  for  Henry  Lilburn,  chaplain,  bora  at  Alberden  in  Scotland, 
dwelling  at  Ottrinden,  co.  Kent.  By  K. 

Grant  for  life  to  the  king's  servant  John  Gleve  of  the  office  of  forester 
and  keeper  of  the  herd  of  the  king's  deer  at  Langtou  Herber  in  the  south 
bailiwick  within  the  forest  of  Shyrwode,  to  hold  by  himself  or  a  deputy  to 
whom  the  master  of  the  king's  game  there  shall  give  his  assent,  with  wages 
of  4(/.  daily  from  the  issues  of  tiie  lordship  of  INIaunsfeld  in  Shyrwode  and 
the  soke  of  tlu;  same  and  all  other  accustomed  profits,  provided  that  this 
grant  of  'U(.  daily  shall  not  be  taken  as  a  precedent.  By  p.s. 

Grant  for  life  to  William  Berkeley  of  the  office  of  con.stal)lc  of  the  king's 
castle  within  the  town  of  Siithamjjton  with  all  due  profits,  and  also  10/. 
yearly  for  the  wages  of  his  office  from  25  March  last,  from  which  time  he 
lias  occui)icd  the  office,  from  the  customs  and  subsidies  in  the  port  of 
Suthampton,  provided  that  this  grant  of  10/.  yearly  shall  not  be  taken  as  a 
precedent.  By  p.s. 

Grant  for  life  to  the  king's  sorTant  John  ap  I'rice  of  the  office  of  forester 
or  keeper  of  the  king's  woods  called  Thornewodis  in  the  south  bailiwick 
within  the  forest  of  Shyrwode  with  the  custody  of  all  other  woods  there, 
with  wages  of  Ad.  daily  from  the  issues  of  the  king's  lordshij)  of  IVIaunsse- 
feld  in  Shirwode  and  the  soke  of  the  same  and  all  other  accustomed  profits, 
provided  that  this  grant  shall  not  be  a  precedent.  By  p.s. 

Inspcxiinns  and  confirmation  of  letters  patent  (English)  of  the  king's 
mother  Cecill,  duchess  of  York,  late  wife  unto  Richard,  rightful  king  of 
England,  dated  at  her  castle  of  Berkhamijsted,  '2^')  Juno,  13  Edward  IV. 
granting  for  her  life  to  her  servant  Ralph  Kyrisshawe,  squire,  one  of  the 
sewers  of  her  chamber,  the  office  of  keeping  her  parks  of  Mershewode, 
CO.  Dorset,  receiving  the  accustomed  fees  at  the  hands  of  her  receiver  there 
with  all  other  profits  ;  and  grant  to  the  said  Ralph  of  the  said  ofiice  for 
life  on  the  death  of  the  duchess,  receiving  the  accustomed  fees  from  the 
ssues  of  the  lordship  of  Mcrshwode  with  all  other  profits. 

By  p.s.  and  for  ^  mark  paid  in  the  hanaper. 

Grant  to  Richard  Frewen  and  .Tohn  Comber  of  the  custody  of  the 
temporalities  of  the  bishopric  of  Hereford  with  knights'  t'ees,  advowsons 
and  offices  from  the  death  of  John  Staubury,  last  bishop,  so  long  as  they 
remain  in  the  king's  hands,  for  400  marks  paid  to  the  king.  By  ji.s. 

General  pardon  to  John  Ingam  a//n.v  Ingham  late  of  London,  'gentle- 
man,' of  all  oU'ences  committed  by  him  before  21  June  last.  By  p.s. 

Rresentation  of  Edmund  Audeley  to  the  parish  church  of  IJaubedere,  in 
the  diocese  of  St.  Davids.  By  K. 


448 


CALENDAR  OF  PATENT  ROLLS. 


July  1. 
Westminster. 


June  25. 

AA'^estminster, 


July  1. 
Westminster. 


June  28. 
Westminster. 


June  30. 
Westniin.ster. 


Juno  29. 
Westminster. 


July  1. 
Westiuiuster. 


July  2. 
Westminster. 


Membrane  14. 

Mandate  to  all  bailiffs  and  others  to  permit  Thomas  Archav,  chaplain, 
born  at  Coupyr  in  Fyffe  in  Scotland,  dwelling  at  Stucley,  co.  Huntingdon, 
who  has  taken  an  oath  of  fealty,  to  inhabit  the  realm  peaceably  and  enjoy 
his  goods.  By  K. 

Whereas  on  10  August,  11  Edward  IV.  the  king  granted  his  free 
chapel  within  his  castle  of  Tikhill,  parcel  of  the  duchy  of  Lancaster,  to 
Leonard  Say,  son  of  John  Say,  knight,  for  life  with  all  profits,  commodities 
and  emoluments  ;  and  afterwards  by  other  letters  i^atent  he  granted  the 
said  free  chapel  and  the  custody  thereof,  whenever  it  should  become  void  by 
the  death  of  the  said  Leonard  or  otherwise,  to  Thomas,  the  prior,  and  the 
convent  of  the  monastery  of  Holy  Trinity,  Lenton  by  Notyngham, 
(as  on  membrane  16),  but  the  said  Leonard  still  occupies  the  chapel  so 
that  they  cannot  have  possession  ;  the  king  hereby  grants  to  them  10/. 
yearly  from  the  fee  farm  of  the  town  of  Arnoll  until  they  shall  have 
possession.  By  p.s. 

Mandate  to  all  bailiffs  and  others  to  permit  Alexander  Seton,  born  in 
Seton  in  Scotland,  dwelling  at  Henxsell,  co.  Kent,  who  has  taken  an  oath 
of  fealty,  to  inhabit  the  realm  peaceably  and  enjoy  his  goods.  By  K. 

Grant  to  the  king's  servant  Richard  Beauchamp,  knight,  and  his  heirs  of 
the  manor  and  lordship  of  Harscombe  alias  Hariscombe  and  Duntesbourne 
Rous,  a  toft  and  a  virgate  of  land  called  '  Organs '  in  Harscombe,  a  toft  and 
a  virgate  of  land  in  Harsfeld  called  '  Henbarowes,'  a  messuage,  a  toft  and  2s. 
of  rent  in  Duntesbourne,  a  tenement,  40  acres  of  land,  10  acres  of  meadow, 
10  acres  of  pasture  and  6  acres  of  wood  in  Longney  and  three  tofts,  two 
virgates  of  land,  20  acres  of  meadow  and  20  acres  of  pasture  in  Calcombo 
by  Muchelhampton,  co.  Gloucester,  and  all  other  manors,  lordships,  lands, 
rents,  reversions  and  services  late  of  William  Mullc  alias  Mylle  which 
Thomas  Herbert  lately  had  of  the  king's  grant  and  have  come  to  the  king's 
hands  by  his  death,  all  glands  late  of  William  Mylle  with  the  town  of 
Newbury  excepted,  to  hold  by  the  accustomed  services.  By  p.s. 

Pardon  to  William  Hanwell  of  Watford,  co.  Northampton,  '  yoman,'  of 
his  outlawry  in  the  county  of  Warwick  for  not  appearing  before  the  king 
to  answer  for  a  trespass,   he   having   surrendered   to   the  Marshalsea 


Thomas   Billyng,   chief  justice  of  the 


King's  Bench,  has 


prison,  as 
certified. 

Licence  for  the  dean  and  chapter  of  the  church  of  Hereford  to  elect  a 
bishop  in  the  place  of  John  Stanbury,  last  bishop,  whose  death  Edmund 
Audele  and  Richard  Martyn,  canons  of  the  church,  have  reported  to  the 
king.  By  p.s. 

Grant  for  life  to  John  Grauntford,  now  one  of  the  yeomen  of  the  crown, 
of  the  office  of  bailiff  of  Rye  with  the  accustomed  fees,  in  lieu  of  a  like 
grant  to  him  and  Babilo  Grauntford  by  letters  patent  dated  12  July, 
(5  Edward  IV.  surrendered.  By  p.s. 

Letters  of  denization  for  William  Maslond,  born  in  the  town  of  Maslond 
in  Holland,  and  the  heirs  of  his  body. 

By  p.s.  and  for  4/.  paid  in  the  hanapcr. 


Membrane  13. 

.July  2.  General  pardon  to  John  Cottuu,  late  soldier  of  the  town  of  Calais,  alias 
Westminster.  John  Cotton  late  of  Loudon,  '  yoman,' of  ail  offences  committed  by  him 
before  8  June  last.  By  p.s. 

July  5.  Grant  for  life  to  Richard  Swansey,  esquire,  of  the  manor  of  Brokedishalle 
Westminster,  in  Brustou,  CO.  Norfolk,  which  came  to  the  king's  hands  because  the  prior 


14  EDWARD  IV.— Part  I. 


449 


1474. 


July  6. 
Westminster. 


Membrane  13 — cont. 

of  Butley  appropriated  it  without  licence  and  for  which  answer  is  made  to 
the  king  of  106*.  yearly  at  the  Exchequer,  to  hold  by  the  services  of  as 
many  knights'  fees  and  as  many  other  rents  and  services  as  it  was  held  by 
before  4  March,  1  Edward  IV.  By  p.s. 

Exemplification,  at  the  request  of  the  king's  firstborn  son  Edward,  prince 
of  Wales,  duke  of  Cornwall  and  earl  of  Chester,  of  the  tcnour  of  an 
ordinance  (English)  in  the  Parliament  summoned  at  Westminster  on 
6  October,  12  Edward  IV.  that  the  said  prince  shall  be  at  liberty  to  retain 
any  person  and  give  his  liveries  and  signs,  any  statutes  notwithstanding. 

July  8.         Exemplification,  at  the  request  of  William  Hastyngcs,  knight,  lord  of 
Westminster.  Hastynges,  of  the  tenour  of  a  provision  (English)  in  the  Parliament  begun 
at  Westminster  on  6  October,  12  Edward  IV.  and  adjourned  to  G  October, 
13  Edward  IV.  that  an  act  of  resumption  in  that  Parliament  should  not 
be  prejudicial  to  the  said  William  or  liatharine  his  wife. 

[Rolls  of  Parliament,  VI.  77.] 

July  4.  Grant  to  John  Cheync,  one  of  the  esquires  of  the  body,  in  part  payment 
Westminster,  of  his  wages  for  long  attendance  oil  the  king's  person,  of  the  50/.  which 
Eleanor  late  the  wife  of  John  Cheyne,  knight.  John  Cheyne,  es(jiiire,  William 
Cheyue,  esquire,  Robert  Cheyne,  '  gientilman,'  Roger  Cheyne, '  gientilman,' 
Alexander  Cheyne,  '  gientilman,'  and  Humphrey  Cheyne,  '  gientilman,' 
iiiive  paid  in  the  hanapcr  of  Chiincery  for  tine  and  fee  of  certain  letters 
patent  of  licence  to  found  a  perpetual  chantry  of  one  chaplain  to  celebrate 
divine  service  daily  in  a  chapel  of  Holy  Trinity  lately  built  by  Roljert 
Shotesbroke,  knight,  in  the  cemetery  of  the  parish  church  of  Holy  Trinity, 
Faryndon,  co.  Berks.  By  p.s. 

July  3.  Licence  for  Eleanor  late  the  wife  of  John  Cheyne,  knight,  John  Cheyne, 
Westminster.  es([uire,  William  Cheyne,  esquire,  Robert  Cheyne,  '  gentilman,'  Roger 
Cheyne,  'gentilman,'  Alexander  Cheyne,  'gentilman,'  and  Hunij)hrey 
Cheyne,  '  gentilman,'  to  found  a  perj)etual  chantry  of  one  chaplain  to 
celebrate  divine  service  daily  in  a  chapcd  of  Holy  Trinity  lately  built  by 
Robert  Shotesbroke,  knight,  in  the  cemetery  of  the  parish  church  of  Holy 
Trinity,  Faryngdon,  co.  Berks,  for  the  good  estate  of  the  king  and  his 
consort  Elizabcjtli,  queen  of  England,  and  liis  firstborn  son  Edward,  prince 
of  Wales,  duke  of  Cornwall  and  earl  of  Chester,  and  the  said  founders  and 
for  the  souls  after  death  ynd  the  souls  of  the  said  Robert  Shotesbroke  and 
Edith  his  first  wife  and  Elizabeth  his  second  Avil'e  and  the  said  John 
Cheyne,  knight,  according  to  the  ordinance  of  the  founders,  to  be  called  the 
chaplain  of  the  chantry  of  Robert  Shotesbroke,  knight,  in  the  said  chajjcl 
and  for  the  said  chaplain  and  his  successors  to  acquire  in  mortmain,  after 
inquisition,  lands,  tenements  and  rents,  not  held  in  chief,  to  the  value  of 
12  marks  yearly  for  their  sustenance. 

By  p.s.  and  for  40/.  paid  in  the  hanaper. 

June  22.       General  pardon  to  Thomas  a  Brigge  late  of  Yvington,  co.  Hereford, 
Westminster.  'gentilni.Mn,'  alias  Thomas  Brugges  late  of   Ivyngton,  of   all  offences 
committed  by  him  before  17  June.  By  p.s. 

July  9.  Whereas  for  certain  offences  committed  by  John  Legh  late  of  Bothis, 
Westminster,  deceased,  against  the  king's  majesty  certain  officers  and  ministers  of  the 
king  seized  an  interest  in  iill  his  lordships,  manors,  lands  and  possessions, 
but  John  Legh  his  son  and  heir  has  never  trespassed  or  made  forfeiture, 
the  king  hereby  pardons  the  above  offences  and  releases  to  the  said  John 
Legh  the  sou  all  right  in  the  said  lordships,  manors,  lands  and  possessions. 

By  p.s. 

y  96186.  r  F 


450 


CALENDAR  OF  PATENT  ROLLS. 


1474.  Membrane  13 — cont. 

July  12.  General  pardon  to  William  Harrys  alias  JHarryson  late  of  Enfeld,  co. 
Westminster.  Middlesex,  '  yoman,'  of  all  offences  committed  by  him  before  1 1  July. 

By  p.s. 

Membrane  12. 

J uly  2.  Grant  for  life  to  the  king's  servitor  John  Joye  of  the  office  of  keeper  of 
Westminster,  the  doors  and  houses  of  the  inner  keep  of  the  king's  castle  of  Wyndesore, 
alias  keeper  of  the  houses  of  the  upper  bailey  of  the  castle,  alias  keeper 
of  the  keys  of  the  doors  and  houses  within  the  new  fabric  in  the  high 
bailey  of  the  castle,  receiving  fees  of  id.  daily  from  the  issues  of  the  castle 
as  were  allowed  for  the  wages  of  Roger  Smale  holding  the  office  in  the  times 
of  Edward  III.  and  Richard  II.  with  all  other  profits,  mansions,  houses, 
gardens,  and  commodities,  with  arrears  of  wages  from  25  March  last  from 
which  date  he  has  occupied  the  office  at  the  king's  command.  By  p.s. 

July  2.  Whereas  a  certain  ship  called  le  31arie  Grace  of  John  WithipoU,  John 
Westminster.  Fuster  and  Louis  Johns  when  lately  coming  laden  with  merchandise  from 
Lusshebourne  in  Portugal  to  Bristol  was  seized  at  sea  off  the  coast  of 
Portugal  by  the  subjects  of  the  king's  adversary  of  France  and  detained 
until  for  ransom  the  said  John,  John  and  Louis  bound  themselves  for  pay- 
ment of  1,250  marks,  the  king  hereby  grants  to  them  the  sum  of  100/., 
viz.  20/.  at  each  of  the  first  and  second  departures  of  the  said  ship  from 
the  port  of  Bristol  to  the  ports  of  Portugal,  Spain,  Castile,  and  Bordeaux 
from  the  customs  and  subsidies  of  merchandise  in  the  said  ship,  wools  and 
wool-fells  excepted,  20/.  at  each  of  the  first  and  second  returns  in  like 
manner  and  10/.  at  the  third  departure  and  return  in  like  manner.    By  p.s. 

June  30.  Exemplification,  at  the  request  of  the  king's  kinsman  Anthony  Wodevile, 
Westminster,  earl  of  Ryvers,  of  the  tenour  of  the  enrolment  of  letters  patent  dated 
16  June,  10  Edward  IV.  appointing  him  governor  general  and  lieutenant 
of  the  town  of  Calais,  the  castle  of  Calais,  the  tower  of  Rysbanke  and  the 
castle  of  Guysnes  and  the  marches  there  and  other  fortalices  of  the  king 
in  the  marches  for  the  term  of  seven  years.  These  letters  are  not  at 
present  in  his  hands,  as  be  has  taken  oath  in  Chancery,  and  will  be 
surrendered  if  found.  [French  Roll,  10  Edward  IV,  m.  1.] 

Vacated  by  the  said  Anthony  in  Chancery  on  1  July,  14  Edward  IV. 
and  cancelled  by  Thomas,  bishop  of  Lincoln,  chancellor  of  England. 

July  4.         Revocation  of  the  protection  with  clause  voliimus,  for  one  year,  granted 
Westminster,  on  17  June  last  by  letters  patent  to  William  Brereton  of  IBrereton,  co. 

Chester,  knight,  late  farmer  of  the  lands  of  Robert  Knoiles,  esquire,  and 
Elizabeth  his  wife,  late  the  wife  of  Hugh  Venables,  knight,  in  Witton  and 
le  Crosse,  co.  Chester,  staying  on  the  king's  service  in  the  company  of  the 
king's;  kinsman  Henry,  earl  of  Northumberland,  warden  of  the  east  marches 
and  middle  marches  of  England  towards  Scotland,  on  the  safe-custody  and 
defence  of  the  same,  because  he  delays  at  Westminster,  co.  Middlesex,  as 
William  Stokker,  knight,  and  Robert  Byllesdon,  sheriffs  of  the  county, 
have  certified. 

—   Commission  to  Richard  de  la  Bere,  esquire,  Thomas  Brigges,  Thomas 

  Morgan,  Thomas  Braynton,  and  the  sheriff  of  Hereford  to  enquire  if  it  is 

to  the  king's  loss  or  prejudice  to  grant  licence  to  John  Barre,  knight, 
to  grant  tiirec  niessuagcs,  200  acres  of  laud,  9  acres  of  pasture,  three 
parts  of  18  acres  of  meadow  and  three  parts  of  12  acres  of  pasture  in  Luyde 
Muchegrosse,  Clehungre  and  Hungarston  to  the  chaplain  of  the  chantry  of 
John  Barre,  knight,  in  the  parish  church  of  Clehungre,  co,  Hereford, 


14  EDWARD  IV,— Part  I. 


451 


1474. 


June  30. 

Westminster. 


July  12. 
Westminster. 

July  10. 
Westminster. 


Membrane  12 — cont. 

(see  p.  425),  to  hold  for  his  sustenance  in  part  satisfaction  of  8/.  of  land  and 
rent  yearly.  Unfinished. 

Vacated  because  complete  on  the  dorse. 

Grant  for  life  to  John  Brewster  of  the  office  of  the  custody  of  the  king's 
chase  of  Brikland  and  Bilhay  within  the  forest  of  Shirwod  with  the 
accustomed  fees,  in  lieu  of  a  like  grant  to  the  king's  servitor  Robert  Unton, 
one  of  the  yeomen  of  the  crown,  by  letters  patent  dated  24  February, 
11  Edward  IV.  surrendered.  By  p.i. 

General  pardon  to  John  Darcy,  esquire.  By  K. 

Grant  to  the  king's  uncle  Henry,  earl  of  Essex,  and  the  king's  aunt 
Isabel  his  wife  and  the  heirs  male  of  their  bodies  of  the  castle,  honour, 
manor  and  lordsiiip  of  Werke  and  the  honour,  manor  and  lordship  of 
Tynedale  alias  Tyndale,  co.  Northumberland,  and  all  manors,  lordships, 
lands,  rents  and  services  belonging  to  the  same  with  knight's  fees,  advowsons, 
courts  leet,  views  of  frank  pledge,  fairs,  markets,  libei'lies,  franchises, 
warrens,  profits,  and  commodities,  to  hold  by  fealty  only,  without  fine  or 
fee  except  20*.  4.d.  only.  By  K. 


Membrane  11. 

June  8.  Grant  for  life  to  Robert  Rokley,  in  lieu  of  a  grant  to  him  of  the  same 
Westminster,  office  by  letters  patent  dated  19  September,  9  Edward  IV.  surrendered 
because  invalid,  of  the  office  of  ranger  of  the  forest  of  Lee,  co.  Rutland, 
alias  the  forest  of  Rutland,  with  wages  of  \\d.  daily  from  the  issues  of  the 
county  of  Rutland  and  ail  other  profits,  provided  that  this  grant  of  \\d. 
daily  shall  not  be  taken  as  an  example.  By  p.s. 

Mandate  in  pursuance  to  the  shcrilFof  Rutland. 
Juno  14.        General  pardon  to  Christopher  Ursewike  late  of  Cambridge,  scholar, 
Westmingter.  ciUas  late  of  Oxford,  scholar,  alias  late  of  Troston,  co.  Suffolk,  clerk,  alias 
late  of  London,  priest,  of  all  offences  committed  by  him  before  8  June. 

By  p.s. 

June  14.  General  pardon  to  John  Crue  late  of  Blakeuey,  co.  Norfolk,  'yoman,'  of 
AVestminster.  all  offences  committed  by  him  before  6  J une.  By  p.s. 

April  22.       Grant  to  Richard  Mynors,  '  gentilman  '  usher  of  the  chamber  with  the 
Nottingham,  king's  son  the  prince,  of  the  office  of  master  of  the  sergeanty  of  the 
lordship  of  Urelionfeld,  co.  Ilerefbrd,  during  the  minority  of  George,  earl 
of  Shrewsbury,  Avith  the  accustomed  fees  from  the  issues  of  the  lordship. 

By  K. 

June  14.  Grant  to  the  king's  lieges  the  free  men  dwelling  within  the  lordships  of 
Westminster.  Mark  and  Oye  that  they  and  their  heirs  and  successors  shall  be  (piit  of  all 
tolls  and  customs  of  all  merchandise,  victuals  and  otiier  things  tlaroughont 
the  whole  power  and  jurisdiction  of  the  king,  as  they  have  been  time  out 
of  mind,  although  divers  evidences  concerning  this  have  been  burnt  by  the 
men  of  Flanders  and  others  in  time  of  war.  By  p.s. 

Vacated  because  on  another  roll. 

Juno  15.  Grant  to  the  king's  clerk  and  councillor  Master  John  Russell,  doctor  of 
Westminster,  decrees,  keeper  of  tho  privy  seal,  of  20.?.  daily  for  the  office  of  keeper  of  the 
privy  seal  from  28  May  last,  since  wliicii  day  he  has  occupied  the  office,  until 
the  day  of  his  death  or  departiu'e  from  office,  amounting  to  305/.  lor  the  whole 
year,  viz.  66/.  1 3s,  4d.  from  tlie  customs  and  siibsiilies  in  the  port  of  Sandwich 
and  ports  and  places  adjacent,  601.  from  the  like  in  the  port  of  Pole, 
66/.  ISs.  4(/.  from  the  like  in  the  port  of  iiristol,  20/.  from  the  like  in  the 

F  F  2 


452 


CALENDAR  OF  PATENT  ROLLS. 


1474 


June  16. 

Westminster. 

July  13. 
Westminster. 


June  19. 
Westminster. 


Membrane  11 — coiit. 

port  of  Bishop's  Lenn,  200  marks  from  the  subsidies  of  tonnage  and 
poundage  in  the  port  of  London  and  18^.  Gs.  8rf.  from  the  customs  and 
subsidies  iu  the  port  of  Briggewater.  By  K. 

General  pardon  to  John  Lascy  alias  Lacy  late  of  Selby,  co.  York, 
'  gentilman,'  of  all  offences  committed  by  him  before  10  iFune.  By  p.s. 

Mandate  to  all  bailiffs  and  others  to  permit  David  Davyson,  chaplain, 
born  in  the  town  of  Dundy  in  Scotland,  dwelling  at  Feltwell  in  England, 
who  has  taken  an  oath  of  fealty,  to  inhabit  the  realm  peaceably  and  enjoy 
his  goods.  By  K. 

Grant  to  Richard  Danvers  that  he  and  his  heirs  shall  have  free  warren 
in  all  their  demesne  lands  in  Culworthe,  co.  Northampton,  and  Prescote, 
CO.  Oxford,  provided  these  are  not  within  the  metes  of  the  forest,  so  that 
no  one  shall  enter  therein  to  hunt  hares,  rabbits,  pheasants  or  partridges  or 
take  anything  pertaining  to  the  warren  against  his  will,  under  forfeiture  to 
the  king  of  10/.  By  p.s. 


Membrane  10. 

July  11.        Pardon  to  Reginald  Wynne  late  of  Asshewell,  co.  Hertford,  '  husbondman,' 
Westminster,  of  his  outlawry  in  the  county  of  Sliddlesex  for  not  appearing  before  the 
king  to  answer  for  divers  trespasses,  he   having  surrendered   to  the 
Marshalsea  prison,  as  Thomas  Billyng,  chief  justice  of  the  King's  Bench, 
has  certified. 

July  9.  Exemplification,  at  the  request  of  Sir  Ralph  Hastynges,  knight,  of  the 
Westminster,  tenours  of  the  following  : — 

1.  A  provision   (English)   in   the  Parliament   held  at  Westminster 

on  6  October,  12  Edward  IV.  and  continued  to  6  October, 
13  Edward  IV.  that  no  act  in  that ; Parliament  should  be  prejudicial 
to  the  said  Sir  Ralph  or  Anne  his  wife  or  their  heirs. 

2.  Another  provision  (English)  in  the  said  Parliament  that  no  act  in 

that  Parliament  should  be  prejudicial  to  the  said  Ralph  or  his 
heirs. 

{Rolls  of  Parliament.  VI.  81.] 

July  5.  Grant  for  life  to  Thomas  Wyntersell  the  younger,  esquire,  and  John 
Westminster.  Bager  of  the  office  of  the  bailiwick  of  Surrey  alias  '  Bagshotes  Baillye  '  in 
the  forest  of  Wyndesore  receiving  the  accustomed  fees  from  the  issues  of  the 
counties  of  Oxford  and  Berks,  in  lieu  of  a  like  grant  to  the  king's  servitor 
Edward  Kyngdon,  one  of  the  yeomen  of  the  crown,  by  letters  patent  dated 
11  December,  1  Edward  IV.  surrendered.  By  ji.s. 

July  19.  Grant  during  pleasure  from  the  feast  of  St.  Peter  ad  Viucula  next  to 
Westminster,  the  merchants  of  the  city  of  Cologne  in  Almain,  who  have  and  in  times 
past  have  had  among  other  merchants  of  Almain  the  house  in  the  city  of 
London  commonly  called  Giiildehalda  Thcutonicoriini,  that  throughout  the 
whole  realm  of  England  and  other  places  subject  to  the  king  they  shall  enjoy 
their  ancient  privileges,  liberties  and  free  customs  granted  to  them  by  the 
king's  progenitors,  that  they  and  their  factors,  attorneys  and  servants  shall 
be  quit  of  all  subsidies  for  their  persons  or  merchandise  saving  to  the  king 
his  ancient  prises,  rights  and  customs,  and  that  none  of  them  shall  be 
ari'ested  for  any  debt  for  which  he  is  not  a  pledge  or  principal  or  for  any 
trespass  committed  by  another.  By  p.s. 

July  20.        Grant  for  life  to  the  king's  servant  Nicholas  Brytte  of  the  office  of 
Westminster,  sergeant  at  ai;ms  in  attendance  on  the  speaker  of  Parliament,  to  hold  from 
10  October,  12  Edward  IV.  and  \2d.  wages  daily  from  that  date  from  the 
issues  of  the  customs  and  subsidies  of  wools,  hides  and  wool-fells,  the  petty 


14  EDWARD  IV.— Paiit  I. 


453 


1474.  Membrane  10 — cont. 

custom  and  the  subsidy  of  tonnage  and  poHndage  in  the  port  of  Cicestre 
and  ports  and  places  adjacent,  and  a  livery  of  vesture  of  the  suit  of 
esquires  of  the  household  yearly  at  Christmas  at  the  great  wardrobe. 

By  K. 

July  20.        Mandate  to  all  to  permit  John  Heige  alias  Harres  alias  Gardener,  born 
Westminster,  at  Saltpreston  in  Scotland,  dwelling  within  the  city  of  London,  who  has 
taken  an  oath  of  fealty,  to  inhabit  the  realm  peaceably  and  enjoy  his  goods. 

By  K. 

July  20.        Grant  during  pleasure  from  Michaelmas  last  to  Thomas  Garth  of  the 
Westminster,  office  of  controller  and  surveyor  of  the  office  of  bailiff  in  the  town  and  port 
of  Sandwich,  receiving  10/.  yearly  at  the  hands  of  the  bailiff  from  tlie 
issues  of  the  office,  in  lieu  «if  a  like  appointment  of  John  Batte  to  the 
office  by  letters  patent  dated  19  June,  12  Edward  IV.  surrendered. 

By  p.s. 

July  14.  General  pardon  to  William  Benbury  late  of  Tacley,  co.  Essex, 
Westminster.  <  gentilman,'  of  all  offences  committed  by  him  before  21  February  last. 

By  p.s. 

Membrane  9. 

July  14.  Commission  to  John  Barre,  knight,  Thomas  Brugge,  Thomas  Morgan, 
Westminster.  John  Cassy  and  Richard  Forster  to  incpiire  into  the  complaint  of  Reginald 
Mulle  son  of  Thomas  MuUe  late  of  Harscombe,  escjuire,  that  whereas 
William  Tracy,  John  Cassy,  esquires,  Jobn  Twesyll,  Richard  Kemell  and 
Richard  Monuemouth  were  seised  in  their  demesne  as  of  fee  of  the  manor 
of  Dontesburn  Rous,  a  messuage,  a  toft  and  2*.  rent  late  of  John  Dowve  in 
Dontesburn,  a  messuage,  a  water-mill,  two  fulling  mills,  20  acres  of  wood, 
40  acres  of  meadow  and  200  acres  of  pasture  called  '  Chalfordes  '  in 
Chalford  late  of  Jolm  Frampton  and  three  tofts,  two  virgates  of  land, 
20  acres  of  meadow  and  20  acres  of  pasture  late  of  the  said  Jolin  Frampton 
in  Coicombe  by  Myuclienhainj)ton,  co.  Gloucester,  and  by  ciiarter  (luiuti- 
jiarlite  dated  at  Gloucester,  G  Ajjril,  34  Henry  VI.  which  the  said 
Reginald  is  prepared  to  show  in  court,  demised  to  the  said  Thomas  Mulle, 
esquire,  and  Marjory  his  wife  for  life  the  above  premises  by  the  names 
of  all  that  messuage  with  lands,  meadows,  feedings,  pastures  and  appur- 
tenances in  Dontesborne  Ilotot  and  Flemmyngys,  co.  Gloucester,  which 
the  said  Thomas  lately  had  of  the  grant  and  feofiinent  of  John  Douve  and 
Joan  Hopton,  \.d.  rent  witii  the  reversion  of  a  messuage  and  three  parts  of 
a  virgatc  of  land  in  Dontcsborn  Abbots  which  he  lately  had  of  the  grant 
and  feofFment  of  Thomas  Loode  and  all  those  messuages,  tofts,  mills, 
lands,  meadows,  feedings  and  pastures  with  woods,  ways,  paths  and  otlior 
appurtenances  which  he  lately  had  of  the  grant  and  feofiinent  of  John 
Frampton  within  the  lordsliips  of  By.^seley  and  Nun's  Hampton,  co. 
Gloucester,  all  of  whicli  the  said  William,  .John,  John,  Richard  and 
Richard  had  of  his  grant  and  feoiVmcnt,  with  successive  remainders  to 
Thomas  Mulle,  Humphrey  Mulle  and  Reginald  Mulle,  sons  of  tfic  said 
Thomas,  and  the  heirs  of  their  bodies,  and  the  said  Thomas  and  Marjory 
were  accordingly  seised  of  the  above  in  time  of"  peace  in  time  of  llu;  late 
king  and  received  the  esplees  thereof,  and  the  said  Humphrey  died  without 
issue  and  afterwards  the  said  Thomas  and  Marjory  died  and  the  premises 
remained  to  the  said  Thomas  the  younger  and  lie  died  without  issue  and 
the  premises  remained  to  the  said  supplicant  Reginald  INIulle,  and  by  au 
act  in  Parliament  at  Westminster,  4  November,  1  Edward  IV.  it  was 
ordained  that  William  iMullc  alius  Mille,  knight,  son  and  heir  of  the  said 
Thomas  Mulle  of  Harscombe,  esquire,  was  attainted  of  high  treason  and 
should  forfeit  all  his  possessions,  by  au  inquisition  taken  at  Gloucester  on 


454 


CALENDAR  OF  PATENT  ROLLS. 


1474.  Membra7ie  9 — cont. 

Thursday,  the  feast  of  St.  Mary  Magdalen,  2  Edward  IV.  before  John 
Grevyle,  William  Notyngham  and  Roger  Kemys,  appointed  together  with 
Thomas  Yong  by  letters  patent,  it  was  found  that  Thomas  MuUe,  esquire, 
was  seised  in  his  demesne  as  of  fee  among  other  things  of  the  above 
premises  and  on  his  death  they  descended  to  William  Mulle,  knight,  as 
his  son  and  heir  and  the  latter  entered  into  and  was  seised  of  them  in  his 
demesne  as  of  fee  and  died  on  2  April,  1  Edward  IV",  and  that  the  said 
manor  of  Dontesburn  and  messuages,  tofts  and  rents  late  of  John  Dowve 
were  worth  60s.,  the  said  messuage  called  '  Chalfordes '  with  mills,  woods, 
meadows,  feedings  and  pastures  and  other  appurtenances  60*.  and  the  said 
three  tofts,  meadows,  feedings  and  pastures  in  ColcombeilSs.  4d.,  and  the 
said  premises  were  accordingly  taken  into  the  king's  hands  on  the  said 
Thursday  and  remained  there  until  by  letters  patent  dated  5  March, 
5  Edward  IV.  the  king  granted  them  to  Thomas  Herbert  the  elder,  one  of 
the  esquires  of  the  hodj,  and  the  heirs  male  of  his  body  and  the  latter 
was  seised  of  them  and  on  his  death  they  descended  to  Thomas  Herbert 
his  son  who  died  without  male  heir  of  his  body  and  they  came  again  into 
the  king's  hands  and  remained  there  until  by  letters  patent  dated  28  June, 
14  Edward  IV.  (see  p.  448)  the  king  granted  them  to  his  servant  Richard 
Beauchamp,  knight,  but  that  the  said  William  never  had  any  right  in  the 
premises,  wherefore  the  said  Reginald  prays  that  justice  may  be  done. 

By  K. 


Membrane  8. 


July  8. 

Westminster. 


July  27. 

Westminster. 


July  22. 
Westminster. 


Exemplification,  at  the  request  of  John  Scudamoure,  knight,  of  the 
tenours  of  the  following  : — 

1.  A  petition  (English)  of  the  said  John  in  the  Parliament  at  West- 

minster, 6  October,  12  Edward  IV.  that  whereas  at  the  beginning 
of  the  reign  he  had  the  rule  and  keeping  of  the  castle  of  Pembroke 
in  South  Wales,  and  the  king  appointed  the  lords  Ferrers  and 
Herbert  to  take  deliverance  of  the  castle  in  his  name  and  the  said 
John  delivered  up  the  castle  to  them  and  was  admitted  to  the  king's 
grace  and  notwithstanding  this  at  the  first  Parliament  of  the  king 
at  Westminster,  4  November,  1  Edward  IV.  he  was  put  in  the 
common  bill  of  attainder  and  afterwards  his  name  was  taken  out  of 
it  but  nevertheless  at  the  latter  end  of  the  said  Parliament  it  was 
ordained  that  he  be  convicted  of  high  treason  and  forfeit  all  his 
lands  and  possessions,  saving  only  his  life  and  goods,  although  at 
the  time  he  was  at  home  in  his  country  trusting  to  the  promise  of 
the  said  lords,  the  king  should  now  ordain  that  the  said  act  and 
others  should  be  in  no  way  prejudicial  to  the  said  John  and  that  the 
latter  should  be  restored  to  his  possessions. 

2.  The  response  of  the  king  at  the  request  of  the  commons  by  authority 

of  Parliament : — Soit  fait  come  il  est  desire. 

3.  A  schedule  (English)  annexed  to  the  said  petition  notifying  that 

William,  lord  Herbert,  by  the  authority  granted  to  him  by  letters 
of  privy  seal  dated  13  May  last  past,  has  received  the  said  Sir  John 
Skydmore,  knight,  into  the  king's  grace.  Pembroke,  30  September, 
1  Edward  IV.  \_Rolls  of  Parliament,  VI.  29.] 

License  for  the  jirior  and  convent  of  the  monastery  of  Holy  Cross, 
Walthani,  pertaining  directly  to  the  Roman  church,  of  the  order  of 
St.  Augustine,  in  the  diocese  of  London,  to  elect  an  abbot  in  the  place  of 
Dan  John  Lucas,  resigned.  By  p.s. 

Grant  for  life  to  Richard  Burgh  of  York,  'gentilman,' of  the  custody 
of  the  king's  stank  or  water  of  Foase  in  the  county  of  the  city  of 


14  EDWARD  IV.— Part  I. 


455 


July  12. 
Westminster. 


1474.  Membrane  8 — cont. 

York  and  the  county  of  York,  in  the  king's  hands  by  the  death  of  John 
Thirskc,  to  hold  from  Michaelmas  last,  from  which  time  he  has  occupied 
the  custody,  witii  all  profits  pertaining  to  the  custody  in  the  times 
of  Edward  III.  and  Richard  11.  receiving  the  accustomed  fees  from  the 
issues  of  the  county  of  York.  By  p.s. 

Grant  to  the  king's  firstborn  son  Edward,  prince  of  Wales,  duke  of 
Cornwall  and  earl  of  Chester,  and  Thomas  Vaghan,  esquire,  his  chamberlain, 
tiiat  they  may  hold  for  their  lives  a  house  or  habitation  within  the  abbey 
or  monastery  of  St.  Peter,  Westminster,  on  a  soil  with  garden  adjoining 
within  the  monastei'y  pertaining  to  the  office  of  chamberlain  of  the 
monastery,  abutting  on  the  wall  of  the  infirmary  of  the  monastery  on  the  east, 
on  the  wall  extending  to  tiie  mill  of  the  monastery  on  tiie  south,  on  the  mansion 
pertaining  to  the  office  of  tlie  bailifl['  of  the  monastery  on  the  west  and  on  the 
garden  pertaining  to  the  precentor  of  tiie  monastery  on  the  north,  lately 
built  by  the  .said  Thomas  at  great  cost  for  his  dwelling  and  for  the  pleasure 
of  the  king  and  liis  consort  Elizabeth,  queen  of  England,  and  his  said  son, 
quit  of  all  entertainment  of  magnates  or  of  officers  and  ministers  of  the 
latter  or  of  the  king.  By  K. 

Membrane  7. 

July  12.  Exemplification,  for  the  notice  of  all  whom  it  may  concern,  of  the  tenours 
Westminster,  of  the  following  : — 

1.  A  petition  of  the  commons  in  the  Parliament  summoned  at  Westminster 

6  October,  12  Edward  IV.  and  continued  to  9  May,  14  Edward  IV. 
that,  as  in  the  counties  of  Kent  and  Sussex  and  elsewhere  within 
the  realm  and  also  within  the  bounds  of  the  marches  of  Calais, 
Gynes  and  Hammes  divers  lands  and  tenements  have  been  damaged 
by  the  increase  of  water,  commissions  of  sewers  should  be  made  to 
divers  persons  by  tlie  chancellor  for  the  next  fifteen  yeans,  in  like 
manner  as  was  ordained  in  Parliament  in  the  years  6,  8,  18,  and  23 
Henry  VI.  Englisli. 

2.  The  response  of  the  king  : — Le  Roy  le  vo«t. 

[Rolls  of  Parliament,  VI.  158.] 

June  G.  Exemplification,  at  the  request  of  Richard,  duke  of  Gloucester,  of  the 
Westminster,  tenour  of  an  act  (English)  in  the  Parliament  sunmioned  at  Westminster,  6 
October,  12  Edward  IV.  and  continued  to  9  May,  14  Edward  IV.  ordaining 
that  George,  duke  of  Clarence,  and  Isabel  his  wife  and  Richard  duke  of 
Gloucester,  and  Anne  his  wife,  daughters  and  heirs  to  Ricliard  Nevyle, 
late  earl  of  Warwick,  and  daughters  and  heirs  apparent  to  Anne,  countess 
of  Warwick,  his  wife  should  possess  and  enjoy  as  in  the  right  of  the 
said  wives  all  possessions  belonging  to  the  said  countess  as  though  she  were 
naturally  dead  and  that  she  should  be  barred  and  excluded  therefrom,  tiiat 
they  siiould  make  partition  of  the  premises  and  tiie  same  partition  should 
be  good  in  law,  that  the  said  dukes  should  enjoy  for  life  all  the  possessions 
of  tlieir  wives  if  tiiey  should  outlive  the  latter,  that  the  said  George  and 
Isabel  should  not  make  alienation,  grant,  fine  or  recovery  of  any  of  the 
premises  to  the  hurt  of  the  said  Richard  and  Anne  or  the  latter  to  the  hurt 
of  the  former,  that  if  the  said  Richard  and  Anne  be  divorced  and  afterwards 
married  this  act  should  hold  good,  that  if  tiiey  be  divorced  and  he  do  his 
effectual  diligence  to  be  married  to  her  and  during  her  life  be  not  wedded 
to  any  other  woman  he  should  enjoy  as  mucli  of  the  premises  as  should 
appertain  to  her  during  his  life,  and  tliat  notwithstanding  the  restr.aint  of 
alienation  or  recovery  above  specified  the  lordship,  manor  and  wapentake 
of  Chesterfeld  and  Scarvesdalo  with  the  appurtenances  and  all  tiie  lands, 
and  tenements  in  Chesterfeld  and  Scarvcsedale  sometime  of  Ales,  late 


456 


CALENDAR  OF  PATENT  ROLLS. 


1474.  Membrane  7 — cont. 

countess  of  Salisbury,  might  be  given  to  the  king  and  his  heirs  in  exchange 
for  other  lands  and  tenenaents,  Avhich  shall  however  be  subject  to  this  Act. 

iRolls  of  Farliamentt  VI.  100.] 

Membrane  6. 

July  18.  Exemplification,  at  the  request  of  William  Hastynges  of  Hastynges, 
Westminster,  knight,  the  king's  chamberlain,  and  Katharine  his  wife  of  an  act  (English) 
in  the  Parliament  held  at  Westminster  on  6  October,  12  Edward  IV. 
and  prorogued  at  divers  times  until  6  June,  14  Edward  IV.  ordaining 
that  whereas  Richard,  late  earl  of  Salisbury,  paid  great  sums  of  money  to 
William,  late  lord  Bonevile,  and  William,  late  lord  Haryngton  the  elder,  for 
a  marriage  between  William  Bonevile,  late  lord  Haryngton  the  younger, 
cousin  and  heir  to  the  said  lord  Haryngton  the  elder  and  cousin  and  heir 
apparent  to  the  said  lord  Bonvile,  and  Katharine,  daughter  of  the  said  earl 
and  now  wife  to  William  Hastynges,  knight,  lord  Hastynges,  and  to  the 
intent  that  after  the  decease  of  the  said  lords  Bonvile  and  Haryngton  the 
elder  and  younger  she  should  have  lauds  and  tenements  of  the  yearly 
value  of  600  marks  for  her  jointure  of  their  inheritance,  and  the  said  lord 
Haryngton  the  younger  and  Katharine  after  their  marriage  had  issue  Cecill 
cousin  and  heir  to  the  said  lords  Bonevile  and  Haryngton  the  elder  and 
daughter  and  heir  to  the  said  lord  Haryngton  the  younger,  and  Johu  Blewet, 
John  Gyfford  and  John  More  by  deed  dated  7  September,  1  Edward  IV. 
granted  to  the  said  Katharine  for  life  the  manors  of  Chuton,  Thui'lebare 
and  Meriot,  co.  Somerset,  and  lands  in  Foxill,  co.  Devon,  which  they  had 
of  the  grant  of  William,  lord  Bonevile  of  Chuton,  and  a  yearly  rent  of 
8/.  4*.  A\d.  with  power  of  distraint  on  the  manors  of  Westkyngston, 
CO.  Wilts,  and  Stapulton,  co.  Somerset,  and  Robert  Danby,  knight,  chief 
justice  of  theCommon  Bench,  William,  prior  of  the  monastery  of  Conyngshed, 
Edward  Bethom,  knight,  Roger  Bethom,  John  Urswyk,  Richard  Bethom 
and  Thomas  Nyanser  by  deed  dated  12  April,  2  Edward  IV.  granted  the 
lordship  or  manor  of  Aldyngham,  the  manor  and  castle  of  Gleston  and 
other  lands,  tenements,  rents  and  services  in  Newbyggyng,  Belclyfc, 
Denron,  Sonbrek,  Scales,  Lees,  Gleston,  Rusbek,  Staynton,  Urswyk  the  more, 
Urswyk  the  less,  Strangilspitill  and  Berdeshey,  co.  Lancaster,  to  the  said 
William  Hastynges  and  Katharine  his  wife  and  John  Fortune  to  hold  for  her 
life,  and  the  king  having  the  vrard  of  the  lands  and  tenements  of  the  said 
Cecill  during  her  nonage  and  also  her  marriage  granted  the  same  by  letters 
patent  to  the  said  Katharine,  and  a  communication  of  marriage  is  had 
at  his  desire  between  his  wife  Elizabeth,  queen  of  England,  and  the 
'  said  William  Hastynges,  knight,  for  a  marriage  to  be  had  between  Thomas 

the  eldest  son  of  the  said  queen  and  the  said  Cecil!,  being  of  the  age  of  13 
years,  or  if  the  said  Thomas  die  without  carnal  knowledge  of  her  that  she 
be  married  to  Richard  his  brother  or  if  the  latter  die  without  carnal  know- 
ledge of  her  that  the  queen  marry  her  at  her  pleasure,  by  which 
communication  it  is  agreed  that  the  said  Katharine  shall  have  all  the 
abovenamed  premises  during  her  life,  the  estate  of  the  said  William, 
Katharine  and  John  Fortune  in  the  premises  shall  be  good,  sure  and 
effectual  during  her  life,  and  that  the  said  Cecill  after  she  come  to  the  age 
of  fourteen  shall  have  full  power  to  make  grant  of  any  of  her  possessions  to 
the  said  Thomas  for  his  life  or  after  his  death  to  the  said  Richard  his 
brother  for  his  life,  excepting  the  above  specified  premises  during  the  life 
of  the  said  Katharine,  saving  to  the  queen  her  title  and  interest  in  the  ward, 
keeping  and  marriage  of  the  said  Cecill  and  her  heirs,  and  that  the  queen 
shall  have  the  issues  and  profits  of  the  said  possessions  for  two  years  after 
the  said  Cecill  come  to  the  age  of  14  years,  provided  alway  that  the  said 


14  EDWARD  IV.— Part  I. 


457 


1474.  Membrane  6 — cont. 

Thomas  or  Richard  to  whom  such  grant  shall  be  made  be  married  to  the 
said  Cecill  before  she  come  to  her  full  age  of  sixteen  years. 

{^Rolls  of  Parliament,  VI.  106,] 

Exemplification,  at  the  request  of  the  queen,  of  the  said  act. 


Membrane  5. 

July  18.  Grant  to  the  king's  brother  George,  duke  of  Clarence,  and  the  heirs  male 
Westminster,  of  his  body,  for  the  better  maintenance  of  his  estate,  of  the  manor  and 
borough  of  Tyvcrton,  the  honour  and  hundred  of  Ty verton,  the  advowsons 
of  three  portions  with  cures  in  the  church  of  Tyverton,  the  castle,  manors, 
lordships,  boroughs  and  liundreds  of  Plymton  and  Okehampton,  the  manor 
and  borough  of  Chalvelegh,  the  manors  of  Colcombe,  Colyton  alias  Clayton, 
Musbury  and  Colford,  the  borough  of  Colyford,  the  manors  of  Opsame  and 
Exilond  alias  Westyate,  the  hundreds  of  Estbudlegh,  Westbudlegh,  Won- 
ford  and  Harige,  the  fishery  of  the  water  of  Exe,  and  the  manors  and 
lordships  of  Wiiitford,  Sampford  Courteney,  Culmejon,  Farewey,  Ayles- 
beare,  Whyraple,  Torbrian,  Skappeton,  Norton  Davne,  Dertmouth  alias 
Dertmouth  Clyftou  Hardenesse,  Northam,  Loudey  and  Daunde  by  Der- 
mouth,  CO.  Devon,  a  moiety  of  the  manors  of  Trevervyn  and  Trigameur, 
and  the  manors  of  Trelugan,  Shcvyok  Amton,  Trelowia,  Portlo,  Oldlawitta, 
Penpoll,  Elerky,  Poripigiian,  Crostehall,  Nortliill,  Landrene  alias  Laudryan 
and  Lavynhorn,  co.  Cornwall,  the  castle  and  lordship  of  Qucnesborogli  in 
the  Isle  of  Shepey,  the  manors  and  lordships  of  Middelton  and  Harden  and 
the  hundred  of  Middelton,  co.  Kent,  a  tenement  in  the  city  of  London 
called  '  le  Ilerber,'  the  lordship  and  manor  of  Bauelingham  in  the  i)arts  of 
Picardy,  a  soil  called  '  le  Poundo '  alias  Raunsam  in  the  county  of 
Guysnesse  and  a  tenement  called  '  Thewall '  and  a  mill  pertaining  to  it  in 
the  same  county,  the  manor  of  Claveryngc,  co.  Essex,  the  castle  and  lord- 
ship of  Morehende,  co.  Northampton,  the  manor  of  Solyhull  and  the  park 
of  Fulbroke,  co.  Warwick,  the  county,  castle,  town  and  honour  of  Ryclie- 
mond  and  the  fee  farm  of  the  same  town,  all  manors,  lands,  rents,  services 
and  possessions  parcel  of  the  same  county  and  honour  in  the  counties  of 
Nottingham,  Derby,  Stafford  and  Leicester  and  the  town  of  Coventry 
excepted,  the  castle,  lordships  and  manors  of  Harom,  Nuthill,  Riston, 
Sutton,  and  two  parts  of  the  manor  of  Rosse,  co.  York,  the  manors  and 
lordships  of  Whitle  and  Warpisden  alias  Warpelesden,  the  manor  and 
lordship  of  Assliehurst  and  the  park  of  A.sshehurst,"co.  Surrey,  the  castle, 
lordship  and  manor  of  AVardar,  the  manor  and  lordship  of  Ludg.arsale,  the 
manors  and  lordships  of  Valet,  Clyvccombe  alias  Wydecombe,  Majjorton, 
Chiddeforme  alias  Chilfrome,  llaselbere,  Toheporcoruni,  Swctp,  Iwarne 
Courteney  alias  Yewern  Courteney,  Ehborton,  Ramsham,  Pontcknoll 
Kentecombe  and  Wroxalc,  co.  Dorset,  the  manors  and  lordsliij)s  o 
Lyndl'ord,  Little  Wavendcn  and  Neweportcpaynell  and  the  park  of  Tyke- 
ford,  CO,  Buckingham,  the  lordship  and  manor  called  '  Pcrcyfec '  in 
Ludford,  the  castle  of  Somerton,  the  manor,  lordship  and  town  of  Boston 
on  the  cast  of  the  water  there  and  two  parts  of  the  same  on  tlu;  west  of  the 
water,  and  the  manors,  lordships  and  towns  of  Freston,  Fratnpton,  Don- 
nyngton,  Quadryng,  Wikes,  Skirbok  and  the  soke  of  Skirbek,  Kirketou 
and  the  soke  of  Kirketou,  Gayton  and  the  soke  of  Gayton,  Mounby  and 
the  soke  of  Mumby,  Goddesfelde  in  Freston,  Ledenham,  FuUebek,  \Yas- 
singburgh,  Boundeby  and  Wrageby,  co.  Lincoln,  the  lordship  of  \Yestle, 
CO.  Suffolk,  the  manor  and  lordshij)  of  Chesthunte,  co.  Hertfonl,  the  manor 
and  lordship  of  Swafham,  co.  Norfolk,  and  the  manors  and  lordships  of 
Exton,  Brene,  Kyngesdon  by  Ylchestrc,  Somerton  Erlicho,  Shokorvvik, 
Batheneston,  Hunspille  Maris,  Bellewtou  Pensford  and  Horsey,  Charleton 


458 


CALENDAR  OF  PATENT  ROLLS. 


1474.  Membrane  5 — cont. 

Makerell,  Dunhede,  Stoke  Michell,  the  castle  and  lordship  of  Wodford  and 
the  lordships  and  manors  of  Wroxale,  Crukeherne  and  Misterton,  co. 
Somerset,  and  all  knights'  fees,  advowsons,  leets,  courts,  views  of  frank- 
pledge, hundreds,  wapentakes,  fairs,  markets,  parks,  chaess,  warrens, 
fisheries,  free  customs,  rights,  waifs,  strays,  chattels  of  felons  and  fugitives, 
escheats,  returns  and  executions  of  writs,  wreck  of  sea,  liberties,  franchises, 
forfeitures,  profits  and  commodities  pertaining  to  the  same,  to  hold  by 
knight-service,  31/.  10s.  yearly  from  the  fee  farm  of  Wexcombe  and  Bede- 
wynde,  co.  Wilts,  40  marks  yearly  parcel  of  100/.  late  of  Thomas,  late  lord 
of  Roos,  attainted  of  high  treason  by  an  act  in  Parliament  at  Westminster, 
4  November,  1  Edward  IV.,  parcel  of  the  fee  farm  of  the  city  of  York,  all 
issues  of  the  same  honours,  castles,  lordships,  manors,  lands  and  other 
premises  from  21  December  last,  and  the  reversions  of  the  manors  and 
lordships  of  Barton  on  Humbre  and  Stewton  and  lands,  rents  and  services 
in  Barton  on  Humbre  and  Stewton,  co.  Lincoln,  on  the  death  of  Katharine, 
duchess  of  Norfolk,  eight  messuages,  twenty  bovates  of  land  and  16  acres 
of  pasture  in  Carleton  by  Hemesley  with  the  agistment  of  the  moor  of 
Carleton  aforesaid,  co.  York,  on  the  death  of  Guy  Fairfax,  who  holds  the 
same  for  life  of  the  grant  of  Thomas  Roos,  knight,  late  lord  of  Roos,  by  the 
name  of  all  the  lands,  rents  and  services  which  the  latter  had  in  the  town- 
ship or  hamlet  of  Carleton  by  Hemesley  and  an  enclosure  or  tenement 
called  '  le  Cowehous  in  le  Grane '  there  with  the  agistment  of  the  moor 
there,  belonging  to  the  king  by  reason  of  the  said  act,  and  the  castle  and 
manor  of  Hamelak  alias  Helmesley,  the  third  part  of  the  manor  of  Roos, 
the  third  part  of  the  manor,  lordship  and  town  of  Boston  on  the  west  of  the 
water  there  and  73/.  65.  %d.  yearly  parcel  of  100/.  parcel  of  the  fee  farm  of 
the  city  of  York  on  the  death  of  Marjory  late  the  wife  of  Thomas  Roos, 
knight,  belonging  to  the  king  by  reason  of  the  said  act,  to  hold  with 
knights'  fees,  advowsons,  leets,  courts,  views  of  frank-pledge,  hundreds, 
wapentakes,  fairs,  markets,  parks,  chaces,  warrens,  fisheries,  fi'ee  customs, 
rights,  waifs,  strays,  chattels  of  felons  and  fugitives,  escheats,  returns  and 
executions  of  writs,  wreck  of  sea,  liberties,  franchises,  forfeitures,  profits 
and  commodities  as  above. 

Aug,  6.        Grant  to  Richard  Fowler,  chancellor  of  the  duchy  of  Lancaster,  and 
Westminster.  John  Fitzherbert,  one  of  the  tellers  of  the  Exchequer,  of  the  presen- 
tation to  the  church  of  Stanford  Ryvers,  in  the  diocese  of  London,  at  its 
next  voidance.  By  K. 

Aug.  8.  Grant  with  the  assent  of  the  king's  brother  George,  duke  of  Clarence, 
Westminster,  lieutenant  of  Ireland,  to  Thomas  Danyell,  esquire,  and  the  heirs  male  of  his 
body  of  the  manors  or  lordships  of  Rawyre  and  Ardemulghau  and  the  king's 
fee  farm  from  the  manors  of  Salmon  Leap  and  Chapelizod  in  Ireland,  with 
knights'  fees,  advowsons,  wards,  marriages,  reliefs,  escheats,  courts,  leets, 
liberties,  franchises,  reversions  and  other  commodities,  to  hold  by  the  ser- 
vices of  as  many  knights'  fees  and  as  many  other  rents  and  services  as  they 
were  held  by  before  4  March,  1  Edward  IV.  By  p.s. 


Membrane  4. 

July  28.        Appointment,  until  28  January,  of  William  Mathewe,  yeoman  purveyor 
Westminster,  of  the  carriage  of  the  household,  to  take  waggons,  wains,  cars,  horses  and 
oxen  and  other  necessaries  for  the  oiEce  of  carriage  of  the  household. 

By  bill  of  the  steward  of  the  household. 

July  28.        Appointment,  until  28  January,  of  Peter  Chyld,  yeoman  ferreter  of  the 
Westminster,  liousehold,  to  take  conies  and  rabbits  for  the  expenses  of  the  household 
and  carriage  for  the  same.  By  bill  of  the  steward  of  the  household. 


14  EDWARD  IV.— Pakt  I. 


459 


1474. 

July  28. 

Westminster. 


Jul}'  28. 
Westminster. 


July  30. 
Westminster. 


July  30. 
Westminster. 


Aug.  3. 
Westminster. 


Membrane  4 — cont. 

Appointment,  until  28  January,  oE  John  Gardener,  yeoman  of  the  office 
of  the  poultry  of  the  household,  to  take  capons,  cocks,  hens,  chickens, 
geese,  eggs,  butter  and  other  fowls  for  the  expenses  of  the  household. 

By  bill  of  the  steward  of  the  Jiousehold. 

The  like  of  John  Botulle. 

Appointment,  until  28  January,  of  James  Worseley,  yeoman  purveyor 
of  the  avenary  of  the  household,  to  take  hay,  oats,  horse  bread  and  litter 
and  other  necessaries  for  the  office  of  the  avenary  of  tho  household. 

By  bill  of  the  steward  of  the  household 

The  like  of  the  following  : — 
Thomas  Roos. 
Robert  Gregory. 
John  Janyns. 

Grant  to  the  mayor,  bailiffs  and  citizens  of  the  city  of  Waterford  in 
Ireland,  who  hold  the  city  of  the  king  by  fee  farm  of  100  marks  yearly, 
because  the  city  has  been  impoverished  for  the  past  six  years  by  ill  success 
in  trade  and  loss  of  goods  of  the  citizens  and  the  death  and  capture  of 
divers  merchants  of  the  city  and  there  is  no  law,  justice  or  government 
around  the  city  but  murder,  robbery  and  war  by  the  Irish  and  rebel 
English,  .so  that  they  can  hardly  keep  the  city  or  repair  its  walls  and  port, 
of  the  reversion  of  the  annuity  of  10/.  which  Nicholas  Strangwissh  has  of 
the  said  fee  farm  of  the  grant  of  Henry  VI.  or  of  the  king,  whenever  it 
shall  come  into  the  king's  hands  by  his  death  or  otherwise.  By  p.s. 

Licence  for  the  alienation  in  mortmain  by  John  Wallewen,  esquire, 
John  Wei  ford  and  Thomas  Breynton  of  a  messuage,  112  acres  of  land, 
30  acres  of  meadow  and  an  acre  of  pasture  in  Lugwardyn,  not  held  in 
chief,  extended  at  7  marks  yearly,  as  appears  by  an  incpiisition  taken  before 
Hugh  Shirley,  escheator  in  the  county  of  Hereford,  to  Thomas  Adys, 
chaplain  of  the  chantry  founded  by  William  Stourtou,  clerk,  in  the  church 
of  Lugwardyn,  to  the  value  of  8  marks  yearly  in  full  satisfaction  of  the 
licence  by  letters  patent  dated  3  December,  1  Edward  IV. 

Grant  for  life  to  John  Dike  of  the  town  of  Calais,  '  smyth,'  of  the  office 
of  chief  smith  of  the  town  and  the  maiches  there  and  surveyor  of  the 
whole  smiths'  art  of  the  same,  receiving  the  accu.stomed  fees  at  the  Iiands 
of  the  treasurer  of  the  town  with  all  profits  pertaining  to  the  office  in  the 
times  of  Edward  III.  and  Richard  11. ;  in  lieu  of  a  like  grant  to  Giles  Van 
Rasyngham,  'smyth,'  by  letters  patent  dated  23  March,  13  Edward  IV. 
surrendered.  By  p.s. 


Membranes  3  and  2. 

June  25.  Inspeximus  and  confirmation  to  James,  bishop  of  Norwich,  and  Thomas, 
Westminster,  the  prior,  and  the  convent  of  Holy  Trinity,  Norwich,  of  letters  patent  dated 
8  October,  2  Richard  II.  inspecting  and  confirming  to  Henry,  then  bishop, 
and  the  prior  and  convent  a  charter  dated  at  Westminster,  21  February, 
12  Edward  HI.  [CWer  i?o//,  12  Edward  III.  No.  42]  inspecting  and 
confirming  to  Anthony,  then  bishop,  and  the  prior  and  convent  a  charter 
dated  at  Westminster,  4  March,  2  Edward  11.  [Charier  Roll,  2  Edward 
II.  No.  30]  inspecting  and  confirming  to  John,  then  bishop,  and  the  prior 
and  convent  a  charter  dated  at  Lanercast,  5  October,  34  Edward  I. 
[Charter  Roll,  34  Edward  I.  No.  11]  inspecting  and  confirming  the 
following  : — 

1.  A  charter  dated  at  Geddington,  28  November,  2  John.  [Rotuli 

Cartarum,  p.  80.] 

2.  A  charter  of  William  II.  dated  at  Salisbury  to  Herbert,  then  bishop. 


460 


CALENDAR  OF  PATENT  ROLLS. 


1474.  Membranes  3  and  2 — cont. 

3.  A  charter  of  Henrj  I.  dated  at  St.  Edmunds  to  Herbert,  then  bishop, 

and  the  monks.    \_Monasticon.  vol.  iy.p.  17.] 

4.  A  charter  dated  at  Westmhister,  7  May,  16  Henry  HL  inspecting 

and  confirming  a  charter  of  Henry  II.  dated  at  Norwich.  \^Monas- 
ticon.  vol.  iv.  p.  17.] 

5.  A  charter  dated  at  Westminster,  7  May,  16  Henry  III.  to  Thomas, 

then  bishoD,  aud  William,  then  prior.    [^Charter  Boll,  16  Henry 
III.  m.  11.] 

6.  A  charter  of  WilHam  II.  dated  at  Westminster.     \^Monasticon.  vol.  iv. 

p.  18.]  For  10/.  paid  in  the  hanaper. 

Membrane  2 — cont. 

July  8.  Licence  for  the  acquisition  in  mortmain,  after  inquisition,  by  John 
Westminster.  RandolfF  of  the  town  of  Westminster,  esquire,  and  Richard  Humfrey  of  the 
same  town,  wardens  of  the  fraternity  and  gild  of  St.  Mary,  Westminster, 
and  their  successors  of  lands,  tenements  and  rents,  not  held  in  chief,  to  the 
value  of  10  marks  yearly  in  aid  of  the  sustenance  of  a  chaplain  to  celebrate 
divine  service  in  the  church  of  St.  Margaret  within  the  enclosure  of  the 
abbot  of  the  monastery  of  St.  Peter,  Westminster,  for  the  good  estate  of  the 
king,  his  consort  Elizabeth,  queen  of  England,  and  his  firstborn  son 
Edward,  prince  of  Wales,  duke  of  Cornwall  and  earl  of  Chester  and  the 
brethren  and  sisters  of  the  said  fraternity  and  gild  and  for  their  souls  after 
death.  By  p.s.  and  for  231.  6s.  8d.  paid  in  the  hanaper. 

July  31.  Grant  to  the  king's  kinsman  William  Hastynges,  knight,  lord  Hastynges, 
Westminster,  the  king's  chamberlain,  in  payment  of  the  sura  of  1,666/.  13s.  4d.  due  to 
him  from  the  king,  as  appears  in  the  receipt  of  the  Exchequer,  of  the 
custody  of  the  castle  and  manor  of  Sheffeld  and  the  manors  of  Honnesworth 
and  Bolsterton,  co.  York,  the  manors  of  Wirksop  alias  Worsop,  Styrop 
and  Tylne,  co.  Nottingham,  the  manors  of  Whitwell,  Monyasshe  and 
Clielmerdon,  co.  Derby,  aud  all  other  castles,  lordships,  manors,  lands, 
rents,  services,  advowsons  and  hereditaments  in  those  counties,  the  park  of 
the  said  manor  of  Wirksop  excepted,  late  of  John,  late  earl  of  Shrewsbury, 
which  Elizabeth  late  the  wife  of  John,  late  earl  of  Shrewsbury,  father 
of  the  said  John,  held  for  life  in  dower  of  his  inheritance  and  which 
came  into  the  king's  hands  by  their  deaths  and  by  the  minority  of  George, 
son  and  heir  of  the  said  John,  to  hold  during  the  said  minority  with  the 
custody  and  marriage  of  the  said  George  without  disparagement,  and  so 
from  heir  to  heir.  By  p.s. 

Aug.  1.  Licence  for  Thomas,  bishop  of  London,  to  grant  the  prebend  of  St. 
AVostniinster.  Paucras  in  the  cathedral  church  of  St.  Paul,  London,  which  is  of  his  own 
patronage  as  in  right  of  the  bishopric  of  London,  with  ail  messuages,  lands, 
rights  and  appurtenances  to  Master  John  Barvyle,  penitentiary  in  the  said 
church,  and  his  successors  in  mortmain  and  to  appropriate  the  said  prebend 
to  the  said  penitentiai-y,  aud  for  Thomas  Wynterborne,  the  dean,  and  the 
chapter  of  the  said  church  to  confirm  this  grant  and  appropriation.    By  p.s. 

Dec.  4.         Grant  for  life  to  John  Sambroke  of  the  office  of  being  one  of  the  king's 
Wesiiuinster.  Serjeants  at  arras  with  wages  of  12d.  daily  from  the  fee  farm  of  the  city  of 
Hereford  and  a  livery  of  the  suit  of  esquires  of  the  household  yearly  at 
Christmas  at  the  great  wardrobe ;  in  lieu  of  a  like  grant  to  Adam  Godeale 
by  letters  patent  dated  13  July,  8  Edward  IV.  surrendered.  By  p.s. 


Membrane  1. 

July  3.  Grant  for  life  to  Richard  Hawt  the  younger,  esquire,  and  Eleanor  his 
Westminster,  wife,  the  daughter  of  Robert  Roos,  knight,  of  the  manors  of  Ravensthorp 


14  EDWARD  IV.— Part  I. 


461 


July  14. 
Westminster. 


May  17. 

Westminster. 


1474.  Membrane  1 — cont. 

and  Boltby,  co.  York,  with  knights'  fees,  courts  leet,  liberties,  franchises 
and  other  commodities,  late  of  Thomas  Roos,  late  lord  of  Roos,  and  in  the 
king's  hands  by  his  forfeiture  and  by  reason  of  an  act  in  Parliament  at 
Westminster,  1  Edward  IV.  to  hold  by  the  services  of  as  many  knights' 
fees  and  as  many  other  rents  and  services  as  they  were  held  by  before 
4  March,  1  Edward  IV.  By  p.s. 

Grant  for  life  to  David  Lyonhill  of  the  office  of  one  of  the  king's 
Serjeants  at  arms  and  \2d.  for  his  wages  from  the  fee  farm  of  the  city  of 
London  and  a  livery  of  the  suit  of  esquires  of  the  household  yearly  at 
Christmas  at  the  great  wardrobe;  in  lieu  of  a  like  grant  to  WiUiam 
Cheynee,  esquire,  in  the  place  of  Richard  Kesten  by  letters  patent,  dated 
7  April,  13  Edward  IV.  surrendered.  By  p.s. 

Grant  in  frank  almoin  to  the  warden  or  dean  and  canons  of  the  king's 
free  chapel  of  St.  George  within  the  castle  of  Wyndesore  of  the  alien  priory 
of  Brymesfeld,  co.  Gloucester,  the  manor  of  Blakenham,  co.  Suffolk,  parcel 
of  the  alien  priory  of  Okebourne,  the  priory  of  St.  Helen  in  the  Isle  of 
Wight,  CO.  Southampton,  the  priory  or  manor  of  Charleton,  co.  Wilts,  all 
lands,  rents  and  services  in  Northmundam,  Compton  and  Welegh  in  the 
counties  of  Sussex  and  Southampton  sometime  of  the  abbot  of  Lucerne  in 
Normandy  alias  Mundam  called  LucerTie,  the  manors  of  Povyngton,  co. 
Dor.sct,  and  Wedon,  parcel  of  the  said  alien  priory  of  Okebourne,  and  a 
yearly  farm  of  12  marks  whicli  the  prior  of  Montacute  renders  from  an 
ancient  impost  lately  belonging  to  the  chief  house  of  the  priory  bevond 
seas,  with  all  lauds,  rents,  services,  knights'  fees,  advowsons,  views  of 
frank-pledge,  courts  leet,  liberties,  privileges,  franchises,  pensions,  portions, 
annuities,  fee-farm.s,  impo.sts  and  other  appurtenances  ;  and  grant  to  them 
of  licence  to  appropriate  the  said  priories.      \^Monas1icon.  vol.  vi.  p.  1359.] 

By  p.s. 

Grant  in  frank  almoin  to  William  Dudley,  the  dean  or  warden,  and  the 
canons  of  the  king's  free  chapel  of  St.  Mary  the  Virgin  and  S.S.  George 
the  Martyr  and  Edward  the  Confessor  within  the  castle  of  Wyndesore  of  the 
manor  of  Membury,  co.  Devon,  the  lordships  of  Preston  and  Monke.sylver, 
CO.  Somerset,  and  tlic  advowsons  of  the  churches  of  I'uryton  and 
Wollavynton,  co.  Somerset,  parcel  of  the  alien  priory  of  Goldclyf  in  Wales, 
with  knights'  fees,  advowsons,  fruils,  pensions,  portion."?,  courts  leet, 
liberties,  franchises,  rights,  commodities  and  emoluments.  \^Monasticon.  vol 
VL  p.  1360.]  By  p.s. 

.Tuly  12.        Grant,  during  pleasure,  to  Robert  Ilowet  of  the  office  of  tronage  and 
Westminster,  pesage  in  the  port  of  Newcastle  on  Tyue  and  ports  and  places  at^acent, 
receiving  the  accustomed  fees.  By  bill  of  the  treasurer. 

Aug.  3.         Licence  for  the  prior  and  convent  of  the  monastery  of  St.  Mary  de 
Westminster.  Pratis,  Leicester,  to  elect  an  abbot  in  the  place  of  Dan  John  Pomcrey,  last 
abbot,  deceased.  By  p.s. 

Aug.  5.         Grant  for  life,  with  the  assent  of  the  king's  brother  George,  duke  of 
Westminster.  Clarence,  lieutenant  of  Ireland,  to  Gilbert  Dobcidiam,  knight,  of  the  office 
of  chancellor  of  Ireland,  receiving  the  accustomed  fees  with  ail  other 
profits  pertaining  to  the  office  in  the  same  manner  as  anyone  else  had  in  the 
office.  By  p.s. 

July  3.         Presentation  of  Thomas  Lecche,  king'.s  clerk,  to  the  parish  church  of 
Wesitminster.  Wyke  Resynden,  in  the  diocese  of  Worcester,  void  by  the  death  of  the  last 
incumbent  and  in  the  king's  gift  by  reason  of  his  custody  of  the  land  and 
heir  of  William  Lovell,  deceased,  tenant  in  chief. 


July  20. 
Westminster. 


462 


CALENDAB  OF  PATENT  ROLLS. 


1474.  Membranes  2Sd — 24d. 

Commissions  of  the  peace  ia  various  oounties.    {See  Appendix.) 

Membrane  22c?. 

May  24.        Commission  to  John  Forster,  William  Taylard,  John  Wake,  Thomas 
Westminster.  Burton  and  Thomas  Gylmyn  to  enquire  of  what  lands  John,  late  earl  of 
Worcester,  was  seised  in  his  demesne  as  of  fee  in  the  county  of  Huntingdon, 
what  they  are  worth,  by  what  service  and  of  whom  they  are  held  and  on 
what  day  he  died. 

Commission  to  John  Wysberd  to  make  payments  of  prest  money  to 
fletchers  (petillarii)  for  the  manufacture  of  '  shefe  arrowes,'  workmen  for 
the  manufacture  of  bows  and  '  bowestaves,'  smiths  for  the  manufacture  of 
arrowheads  and  workmen  called  '  strengers  '  for  the  manufacture  of  strings 
for  bows  in  the  counties  of  Norfolk,  Suffolk,  Cambridge  and  Huntingdon 
and  to  certify  thereon  to  the  king  and  council  with  all  speed,  the  king 
having  caused  proclamations  to  be  made  by  the  sheriffs  in  those  counties  for 
the  manufacture  of  the  same  with  all  speed  for  the  ordnance  of  the  army 
going  with  him  to  France  for  the  recovery  of  that  realm  and  his  right 
there. 

The  like  to  the  following : — 

Thomas  Blaunchard  in  the  counties  of  Warwick,  Stafford,  Derby, 
Nottingham  and  Leicester,  the  city  of  Coventry  and  the  town  of 
Nottingham. 

Thomas  Bowes  in  the  counties  of  Kent,  Surrey,  Sussex  and  South- 
ampton, the  city  of  Canterbury  and  the  town  of  Southampton. 

WilHam  Warde  in  the  counties  of  Dorset,  Somerset,  Devon  and 
Cornwall. 

Thomas  Bestney  in  the  counties  of  Wilts,  Gloucester,  Hereford,  Salop 
and  Worcester. 

Richard  Copcott  in  the  counties  of  Berks,  Oxford,  Buckingham, 
Bedford,  Northampton  and  Rutland. 

Richard  Dalker  in  the  counties  of  Essex,  Middlesex  and  Hertford  and 
the  city  of  London. 

John  Covert  in  the  counties  and  cities  of  Lincoln  and  York. 


Membrane  20d. 

April  23.  Commission  de  toalliis  et  fossatis  to  Th.  bishop  of  Lincoln,  William 
NottiDgbam.  Hastynges  of  Hastynges,  knight,  John  Scrope  of  Bolton,  knight,  Robert 
Markham,  knight,  John  Stanhope,  Gervase  Clyftou,  Robert  Wilughby, 
Thomas  Molyneux,  Thomas  Nevyll  and  John  Metheley  from  Broughtou 
Sulny  to  the  water  of  Deven  in  the  county  of  Nottingham  and  from 
Feldyke  in  Byngham  to  the  same  water  in  the  same  county  and  by  and 
about  the  said  water  from  the  county  of  Leicester  beyond  Kilbyngton  to 
the  water  of  Trent  in  the  said  county  of  Nottingham. 

July  3.  The  like  to  Richard  Fenys  of  Dacre,  knight,  John,  abbot  of  Bermondesey, 
AVestminster.  Henry,  prior  of  St.  Mary  Overey,  Sutliwerk,  William  Crosse,  master  of  the 
hospital  of  St.  Thomas  Martyr,  Suthwei-k,  Master  William  Hatteclyffe, 
Thomas  Burghchier,  Nicholas  Gaynesford,  John  Forster,  John  Wodc, 
John  Lynton,  John  Malbourgh,  Richard  Gilmyn,  John  Holgrave,  William 
Cornewe,  Robert  Ballard,  Richard  Skynner,  Richard  Tyngelden  and  John 
Colyngregge  by  the  coast  of  the  marsh  of  the  Thames  between  the  towns 
of  Estgrenewich,  co.  Kent,  and  Waudesworth,  co.  Surrey. 


14  EDWARD  IV.— Part  I. 


463 


1474.  Membrane  20d. — cont. 

July  16.  The  like  to  John  Fogge,  knight,  John  Scot,  knight,  William  Haute, 
Westminster,  knight,  John  Gilford,  knight,  John  Elryngton,  esquire,  John  Brumston, 
esquire,  Henry  Auger,  esquire,  William  Belknap,  esquire,  Robert  Oxen- 
bregge,  esquire,  Bartholomew  Bolney,  Roger  Brent,  John  Fyneux,  Vincent 
Fynche,  John  Nethirsole  aud  John  Hert  between  the  towns  of  Robertys- 
bregge,  co.  Sussex,  and  Romeney,  co.  Kent. 

Aug.  3.         The  like  to  Edward  Nevyll  of  Bergevenny,  knight,  John,  abbot  of 
Westiniuster.  Bermondesey,  William,  abbot  of  Lesnes,  William  Hatteclyff,  John  Bromston, 
John  Grene,  John  Bam,  Roger  Appilton,  Robert  Ballard  and  John  Alfcgh 
on  the  coast  of  the  marsh  of  the  Thames  from  the  town  of  Westgrenewiche, 
CO.  Kent,  to  Gravesend,  co.  Kent. 

Oct.  16.        The  like  to  Thomas  Urswyke,  knight,  John  Elryngton.  Thomas  Frowyk, 
Westminster.  'A'illiam  Essex,  Roger  Fhilpot,  William  Copley,    William  Chadworth, 
Thomas  Lute,  William  Gardyner  and  Simon  Smyth  by  the  coast  of  the 
marsh  of  the  Thames  between  the  Tower  of  London  and  the  town  of 
Stratford  atte  Bowe  in  the  county  of  Middlesex. 

Dec.  6.  The  like  to  William,  abbot  of  the  monastery  of  St.  Augustine  without 
Westminster,  the  walls  of  the  city  of  Canterbury,  Edward  i^evyll  of  Bergevenny,  knight, 
John,  abbot  of  Bermondesey,  William,  abbot  of  Lesnes,  Master  William 
Hatclyff,  James  Haute,  esquire,  John  Bromston,  esquire,  John  Grene, 
esquire,  Richard  Page,  John  Bamme,  esquire,  Roger  Appelton,  Roger 
Brent,  John  Alfegh,  William  Swan,  Robert  Balard,  Roger  Shelley,  John 
Nethcrsolc  and  John  Hert  by  the  coast  of  the  Thames  and  marsh  from  the 
town  of  Wolewiche,  co.  Kent,  to  the  town  of  Northflete,  co.  Kent. 

Membrane  I9d. 

July  12.        Commission  to  Joini  Constable,  knight,  William  Lawson,  John  Swynborn, 
Westminster.  John  Heron,  John  HarebottuU  and  the  sheritf  of  Northumberland  to 
enquire  about   all    wards,    marriages,  reliefs,    escheats    and  forfeitures 
belonging  to  the  king  and  .all  alienations  of  lands  in  mortmain  or  lands 
held  in  chief  without  licence  in  the  said  county. 

Membrane  17  d. 

June  30.        Commission  to  John  Mounpcsson,  Robert  Baynard,  John  Whyttokes- 
Webtminster.  mede  and  John  Ferrers  to  en(iuire  about  certain  felons  of  themselves  in  the 
county  of  Wilts  aud  the  concealment  of  their  goods  and  chattels,  belonging 
to  the  king  for  this. 

Membrane  I3d. 

July  16.       Commission  to  Richard  Patyu  to  take  carriage  by  land  and  waU  r  for 
Westminster,  divers  ordnance  of  the  king  to  the  castle  of  Nottingliani  and  timber,  iron 
and  other  necessaries  for  the  ordnance  and  carpenters  called  '  whelewrightcs' 
aud  '  cartwrightes '  and  other  carpenters  aud  workmen. 

Membrane  I2d. 

July  1,  Commission  to  Richard  de  la  Bere,  esquire,  Thomas  Brigges,  Thomas 
Westminster.  Morgan,  Thomas  Braynton  and  the  sheriff  of  Hereford  to  encpiire  if  it  is  to 
the  king's  loss  or  prejudice  to  grant  licence  to  ,lohn  Barre,  knight,  to  grant 
three  messuages,  200  acres  of  land,  9  acres  of  pasture,  three  parts  of  18 
acres  of  meadow  and  three  parts  of  12  acres  of  pasture  in  Luyde  Muche- 
grosse,  Clehungre  and  Hungarston  to  the  chaplain  of  the  chantry  of  John 
Barre,  knight,  in  tlie  parish  church  of  Clehungre,  co.  Hereford,  in  the 


464 


CALENDAR  OF  PATENT  ROLLS. 


1474.  Membi  'ane  12d — cont. 

diocese  of  Hereford,  to  hold  for  his  sustenance  in  part  satisfaction  of  8/. 
of  laud  aud  rent  yearly,  which  the  king  granted  Ucence  for  him  to 
acquire  by  letters  patent,  and  to  enquire  of  whom  the  premises  are  held  and 
by  what  service  aud  how  much  they  are  worth  aud  what  lands  will  remain 
to  the  said  John  Barre  after  this  grant. 

Membrane  \0d. 

July  20.  Commission  to  Fulk  Burghchier  of  Fitzwareyn,  knight,  John  Dyuham 
Westminster,  of  Dynham,  knight,  Thomas  Seyntleger,  Robert  "Wilughby,  knight,  John 
Crokkar,  knight,  John  I'ortescu,  Richard  Page,  John  Bygonell,  William 
Hody,  Richard  Wydeslade,  Thomas  Calwadley,  William  Fowell  and  John 
Wydeslade  to  enquire  about  all  loadings  and  unloadings  of  ships  and  mer- 
chandise since  the  first  day  of  the  reign  without  due  payment  of  subsidies 
all  escapes  of  felons  from  prison,  all  escheats,  wards,  custodies,  marriages 
of  heirs  aud  widows  without  licence  aud  reliefs,  debts  and  chattels  concealed 
from  the  king,  all  concealments,  trespasses,  olFences,  contempts,  falsifications 
and  deceptions,  all  alienations  of  manors  and  lands  held  in  chief  without 
licence,  all  wastes  committed  on  the  king's  possessions,  manors  and  lands 
or  other  lands  the  reversions  of  which  belong  to  him,  all  reversions,  knights' 
fees  and  advowsons  belonging  to  the  king  by  reason  of  the  minority  of  heira 
or  otherwise,  all  customers  and  controllers  of  ports  and  searchers  not 
resident  at  their  offices  and  all  sums  of  money  received  by  them  for  payment 
of  any  tally  or  assignment,  all  customers,  controllers,  searchers,  controllers 
and  surveyors  of  the  scrutiny  having  ships  of  their  own,  buying  or  selling 
merchandise,  dealing  with  the  freighting  of  ships  or  holding  wharves, 
quays,  inns  or  taverns,  and  all  idiots  and  their  lands,  in  the  counties  of 
Devon  and  Somerset,  and  to  send  their  inquisitions  into  Chancery  as  soon 
as  possible  and  not  later  than  the  morrow  of  All  Souls  next. 


Membrane  Id. 

Aug.  5.  Commission  to  the  king's  brother  Richard,  duke  of  Gloucester,  the  king's 
"Westminster,  kinsman  Henry,  eai-1  of  Northumberland,  John  Pilkyngton,  knight,  Robert 
Constable,  knight,  William  Ivers,  knight,  Roger  Musgrave,  William 
Claxton,  John  Wydryngton,  Ralph  Hooton,  Nicholas  Ridle,  Thomas 
Poupley,  John  Whitfeld,  Thomas  Elryngton,  Robert  Whitfeld  and  William 
Goderyswjke  to  inquire  into  the  report  of  George  Willarby  that  there  are 
three  notable  mines  in  the  north  of  England,  of  which  one  contains  27  lbs. 
of  silver  in  the  fodder  of  load  with  a  vein  half  a  rod  in  breadth,  another  18 
pounds  of  silver  in  the  fodder  Avith  a  vein  5  rods  in  breadth  aud  the  other 
4  pounds  of  silver  in  the  fodder  with  a  vein  \\  rods  in  breadth,  and  to 
certify  thereon  to  the  king  and  council. 


465 


14  EDWAED  IV.—Part  2. 


1474. 

June  28. 
Westminster. 


July  4. 
Westminster. 

May  20. 
Wesiiuiuster. 


July  15. 
Westminster. 


Aug.  3. 
Westminster. 


3IEMBRANB  24. 

Inspeximus  and  confirmation  to  the  abbot  and  convent  of  the  monastery 
of  St.  Mary  and  St.  Dogmael  in  Kemmeys,  monks  of  Tyron,  of  letters 
patent  dated  2  June,  20  Richard  II.  inspectin'^  and  confirminpj  a  charter 
dated  at  Langley,  3  February,  5  Edward  III.  [Charter  Boll,  5  Edward  III. 
No.  80]  in.specting  and  confirming  the  following  : — 

1.  A  charter  dated  at  Westminster,  12  June,  18  Edward  I.  [Charier 

Boll,  18  Edicard  I.  No.  47]  inspecting  and  confirming  a  charter  of 
Henry  I.  [Monasticon,  vol.  iv.  p.  130,] 

2.  A  charter  dated  at  King's  Clipstone,  G  November,  18  Edward  I. 

[Charter  Boll,  18  Edward  I.  No.  3]  inspecting  and  confirming  a 
charter  of  Nicholas  son  of  Martin.       For  20s.  paid  in  the  hanaper. 

Ratification  of  the  estate  which  John  Vale  has  as  parson  of  the  parish 
church  of  St.  Migneta,  Rathwere,  in  the  diocese  of  Meath. 

Grant  for  life  to  John  Beaucliamp,  knight,  and  Richard  lleauchanip, 
knight,  his  son  of  two  tuns  of  wine  yearly  from  Michaelma.s,  12  Edward  IV. 
in  the  port  of  Bristol  at  the  hands  of  the  king's  butlt-r  or  his  deputy  there, 
provided  that  they  shall  not  leceive  any  wines  by  reason  of  letters  patent 
under  the  privy  seal  dated  10  December,  12  Edward  IV.  directed  to  the 
butler.  By  p.s. 

Mandate  in  pursuance  to  the  butler. 

Grant  to  Richard  Beauchami),  kniglil,  and  the  heir.s  male  of  his  body  of 
the  ofiicc  of  constable  of  the  castle  of  Cilouccsler  and  the  cu.^tody  of  the 
gaol  of  the  castle  and  a  meadow  called  '  t'astell  Mode  '  and  '  Castell  Cowle  ' 
belonging  to  the  said  oflice  of  old,  with  all  fees  and  profits.  By  p.s. 

Appointment,  during  pleasure,  of  Richard  Page  as  receiver  of  all 
lordshii)S,  manors  and  lands  late  of  Philip  Co])leston,  esquire,  tenant  iu 
chief,  in  llie  county  of  Devon  and  in  the  king's  hands  by  reason  of  the 
minority  of  Raljdi  Copleston  his  son  and  heir,  with  such  fees  as  may  be 
agreed  upon  between  the  said  Richard  and  the  treasurer  of  England  before 
Christmas  next.  By  bill  of  the  treasurer. 


Membrane  23. 

July  30.        Exemplification,  at  the  recjuest  of  John  atte  Grove,  of  the  tenour  of 
Westminster,  a  foot  of  a  fine  levied  at  Westminster  in  the  octave    of  Midsummer, 
2  Edward  II.  before  William  de  Bereford,  Lambert  ile  Trikiugham,  llervey 
do  Stanton  and  Henry  le  Scrope,  justices  of  the  Bench,  between  Walter 
atte  Crave  of  Wokindone  Setfbnteynes  and  Sabina  his  wife,  complainants, 
and  John  Malcgrefl'o  of  Horndon,  deforciant,  concerning  two  messuages,  a 
oai  ucate  ot  land,  8  acres  of  ])asture,  3  acres  of  wood  and  27s.  2d.  rent  iu 
Wokindone  Setfbnteynes  and  Wokindone  Bisshop,  co.  Essex,  by  which  the 
said  Walter  acknowledged  the  premises  to  be  the  right  of  the  said  John  as 
those  which  tiie  latter  had  of  his  gift  and  the  said  John  granted  them  to 
the  said  Walter  and  Sabina  for  life  with  remainder  to  Thomas,  son  of  the 
said  John,  and  Joan  his  Avife  and   the  heirs  of  their  bodies  and  final 
remainder  to  the  right  heirs  of  Walter. 
.A up.  1.         General  pardon  to  William  Smythe  late  of  the  parish  of  Wroxhale,  ro. 
Westminster.  Somerset,  *  yoman,' a/ios  of  Bristol,  porter  of  the  castle  of  Bristol,  alius 
y  96186,  G  G 


466 


CALENDAR  OF  PATENT  ROLLS. 


1474.  Membrane  23 — cont. 

late  of  Great  Harowdon,  co.  Northampton,  alias  late  'of  Faukeburn,  co. 
Essex,  of  ail  offences  committed  by  him  before  28  July  last.  By  p.s. 

July  30.  Grant  to  Gerard  Caniziani,  merchant  of  London,  and  Elizabeth  his  wife 
Westminster,  and  their  heirs  and  assigns,  in  satisfaction  of  the  sum  of  360/.  which  he 
has  paid  on  behalf  of  the  king,  of  the  manor  of  Great  Lynford,  co.  Buck- 
ingham, with  the  advowson  of  the  parish  church  of  Great  Lynford  and  a 
messuage,  three  yirgates  of  land,  3  acres  of  meadow  and  4  acres  of 
pasture  called  '  Lynforthes  '  in  Lynford  aforesaid  in  the  king's  hands  by 
pretext  of  the  forfeiture  of  James,  late  earl  of  Wiltshire,  attainted  of  high 
treason  by  virtue  of  an  act  in  Parliament  at  Westminster,  4  November, 
I  Edward  IV.  and  all  lands,  rents,  reversions  and  services  in  the  town  of 
Great  Lynford  late  of  the  said  earl  and  in  the  king's  hands  as  above,  to  hold 
of  the  chief  lords  of  the  fee  by  the  services  of  as  many  knights'  fees  and 
as  many  other  rents  and  services  as  they  were  held  by  before  4  March, 
1  Edward  IV.  By  p.s. 

Aug.  4.        Pardon  to  the  king's  uncle  Henry,  earl  of  Essex,  treasurer  of  England, 
Westminster,  and  Richard  Fowler,  chancellor  of  the  duchy  of  Lancaster,  his  clerk  or 
deputy,  of  all  offences  committed  by  them  and  all  debts,  accounts,  issues 
and  arrears  due  from  them  to  the  king  before  20  July  last.  By  K. 

Aug.  5.  Whereas  on  the  mature  deliberation  of  the  council  the  king  ordered  that 
Westminster.  Robert,  lord  of  Boyde  of  the  parts  of  Scotland,  for  his  good  service  should 
have  200  marks  yearly  for  his  sustenance  from  Michaelmas,  12  Edward 
IV.  until  Michaelmas,  1475,  and  he  has  had  payment  of  50  marks  only; 
the  king  hereby  grants  to  him  150  marks  at  the  receipt  of  the  Exchequer 
in  payment  for  the  first  year  and  200  marks  as  follows  from  Michaelmas 
last  in  each  of  the  other  two  years,  viz.  20/.  from  the  issues  of  the  county 
of  Southampton,  201.  from  the  issues  of  the  counties  of  Warwick  and 
Leicester,  17/.  ^s.  8d.  from  the  issues  of  the  county  of  Rutland,  24/.  from 
the  issues  of  two  parts  of  the  manors  of  Brattou,  Credeho,  Alverdescote, 
Hautbray  alias  Highbray,  Essherogcs,  Southmolton  and  all  lands  and 
rents  in  the  county  of  Devon  late  of  David  Fiemmyng,  knight,  deceased,  at 
the  hands  of  the  farmers,  receivers  or  other  occupiers  or  the  sheriti'of  Devon, 
10/.  from  the  fee  farm  of  the  town  of  Worcester  and  the  issues  of  the  same, 
1()/.  from  the  fee  farm  of  the  city  of  Hereford  and  the  issues  of  the  same, 
10/.  from  the  farm  of  the  mills  of  Retford,  co.  Nottingham,  at  the  hands  of 
the  abbot  of  Welbek  and  16/.  from  the  fee  farm  of  Pynnokshire,  co. 
Gloucester,  at  the  hands  of  the  abbot  and  monks  of  Hayles  or  the  receivers, 
farmers  or  other  occupiers  of  tiie  same.  By  K. 

Aug.  5.  Grant  with  the  assent  of  the  king's  brother  George,  duke  of  Clarence , 
Westminster,  lieutenant  of  Ireland,  to  the  mayor,  bailiffs  and  citizens  of  the  city  of 
Watorfoid  in  Ireland,  who  arc  bound  to  render  their  account  for  tlie  fee 
farm  of  the  city  twice  yearly  at  the  exchecjuor  of  Dublin,  that  the  chan- 
cellor of  Ireland  shall  yearly  appoint  two  commissioners  from  the  more 
discreet  men  of  their  city  by  letters  patent  under  the  great  seal  of  Ireland 
to  audit  their  account  and  that  they  shall  not  while  the  present  troubles 
last  be  compelled  to  make  any  account  at  the  said  exchequer,  as  the  city  of 
Watcrf ord  is  60  miles  away  from  .  the  city  of  Dublin  and  there  is  nothing 
but  rebellion,  murder,  robbery  and  war  around.  By  p.s. 

Aug.  5.  Grant  to  the  king's  brother  Richard,  duke  of  Gloucester,  and  the  heirs 
Westminster,  of  his  body  of  the  lordships  and  manors  of  and  in  Winterbornstoke,  Upton 
Skidmore,  Warminster,  and  Mildenhale  and  all  land.s,  rents  and  services 
in  Chippenham,  Shildon,  Loldon,  Winterbornstoke,  Upton  Skidmore, 
Warmister  and  Mildenhale,  co.  Wilts,  the  manors  and  hundreds  of  Wellowe 
and  Telisford,  co.  Somerset,  the  manors  of  Rusteshale,  Wittenham  and 
Rowley  and  the  hundreds  of  Chippenham,  Bisshoppeston  and  Donlowe,  co. 


J 4  EDWARD  IV.— Part  II. 


467 


1474,  Membrane  23 — cont. 

Wilts,  with  knights'  fees,  advowsons,  hundreds,  courts  leet,  franchises, 
views  of  frank-pledge,  fairs,  markets  and  v/arrens,  late  of  Robert  Hunger- 
ford,  knight,  and  belonging  to  the  king  by  the  forfeiture  of  his  son  Robert 
Hungerfoi'd,  knight,  lord  Hungerford  and  de  Moleyns,  and  also  the 
reversion  on  the  death  of  Margaret,  lady  of  Hungerford,  late  the  wife  of 
the  said  Robert  the  fiither,  of  the  manors  of  Brittford,  co.  Wilts,  Bremul- 
shawe,  TefTont,  co.  Wilts,  Parke,  Hametetthe,  Hilleton,  llilleton,  Dawnoth, 
Hermona  and  Tresoderon,  co.  Cornwall,  belonging  to  the  king  as  above, 
with  knights*  fees,  advowsons,  hundreds,  courts  leet,  franchises,  fairs, 
markets  and  other  free  customs,  to  hold  by  the  services  of  as  many  knights' 
fees  and  as  many  other  rents  and  services  as  they  were  held  by  before 
4  March,  1  Edward  IV.  By  p.s. 

July  18.  Presentation  of  Thomas  Wele  to  tlio  parish  church  of  Gisleham,  in  the 
Westminster,  diocese  of  Norwich,  void  by  the  resignation  of  Robert  Blakwall,  last  parson. 


Membrane  22. 


Aug.  10. 

Wiudsof. 
Aug.  11. 

Windsor. 


Aug.  14, 
Windsor. 


Aug.  15. 
AVoLiun. 


Aug.  15. 

Westminster 


Aug.  12. 
Windsor. 


July 


0.=;. 


Westmiustir 


General  pardon  to  William  Clement  of  Suthwcrk,  *  berebrucr,'  altai 
citizen  and  draper  of  London,  of  all  ofl'enccs  committed  by  him  before 
7  August.  By  p.s. 

Grant  for  life  to  William  Kelley  of  the  office  of  chief  plumber  within  the 
castle  of  Wyndesore  with  all  accu.stomed  fees  as  in  the  times  of  Edward  III. 
and  Richard  II.  from  the  issues  of  the  castle.  By  p.s. 

Ai)poiMtnient  of  the  king's  kinsman  Henry,  earl  of  Northumberland,  as 
sherilf  of  Norlhund)crland  and  grant  to  him  of  the  ollice  of  sheriff  for  life, 
rendering  to  the  king  100/.  yearly  at  the  Exchecpier  without  any  account. 

By  p.s. 

Mandate  to  the  escheator  in  the  county  of  Hereford  and  the  marches  of 
Wales  suljacent  for  the  restitution  of  the  temporalities  of  tlio  bi.shopric  of 
Hereford  to  Master  Thomas  Millyng,  i)rof('ssor  of  theology,  whom  the 
pope  has  appointed  bishop  in  the  place  of  John  Stanbury,  deceased,  and 
who  has  renounced  everything  prejudicial  to  the  king  in  the  pope's  bull  and 
whose  fealty  the  king  has  taken.    [7''a?<7em.]  By  p.s. 

The  like  to  the  escheators  in  the  following  counties : — 

Salop  and  the  marches  of  Wales  adjacent. 

Gloucester  and  the  marches  of  Wales  adjacent. 
The  like  to  John  Tate,  nuiyor  of  London  and  escheator  in  that  city. 
Writ  de  intcndcndo  in  pursuance  to  the  tenants. 

Commission  to  Robert  Booldc,  knight,  Richard  Evys  and  Edward  ap  David 
to  lake  ships  and  vessels  for  the  conduct  of  certain  men  at  arms  and  archers 
whom  the  king  has  ordered  to  be  sent  to  Ireland  in  the  compauy  of  Gilbert 
Debenham,  king's  knight,  to  resist  the  king's  enemies  and  rebels  there,  and 
masters  and  mariners  for  the  same. 

Appointment  for  life  of  the  king's  servant  John  Belchamp  alias  Ilaster  as 
master  carpenter  of  the  king's  ship  called  le  Gracedieu  and  other  ships  of 
the  king  from  4  August,  13  Edward  IV.  from  which  day  he  has  had  the 
ollice,  with  a  fee  of  10/.  yearly  from  the  customs  and  subsidies  in  the  port 
of  Soutliamplon.  By  p.s. 

Licence  for  the  acquisition  in  mortmain,  after  inquisition,  by  William  Wildy 
the  prior,  and  the  convent  of  the  house  of  Jesus  of  Bethlehem,  IShene, 
of  lands,  tenements  and  rentsj  not  held  in  chief,  to  the  value  of  50/.  yearly. 

By  p.s. 
G  G  2 


465^ 


CA.LENDA3i  OF  PATENT  ROLLS. 


1474. 
Aug.  24. 

Somerics. 


Aug.  22. 

Westminster, 


Aug.  20. 

Westminster. 


Aug.  28. 
Euckden. 


Membrane  22 — cont. 
Revocation  of  the  pi'otection  -with  clause  volumus,  for  one  year,  granted 
on  20  April  last  by  letters  patent  to  William  Routhe,  citizen  and 
'  haberdassher '  of  London,  alias  '  niarchant,'  going  on  the  king's  service 
in  the  company  of  the  king's  kinsman  AVilliam,  lord  of  Hastynges,  lieutenant 
general  of  the  town,  castle  and  marches  of  Calais,  on  the  safe  custody, 
defence  and  victualling  of  the  same,  because  he  delays  in  the  city  and 
suburbs  of  London,  as  appears  by  certificate  of  Robert  Billesdon  and 
William  Stokker,  knight,  sheriffs. 

Grant  for  life  with  the  assent  of  the  king's  brother  George,  duke  of 
Clarence,  lieutenant  of  Ireland,  to  Gilbert  Debenham,  knight,  of  the  oiSce 
of  steward  of  the  liberty  of  the  county  of  Meath  in  Ireland,  receiving  the 
accustomed  fees  with  all  profits,  with  power  of  appointing  all  officers  under 
him.  By  p.s. 

Grant  for  life  with  the  assent  of  the  king's  brother  George,  duke  of 
Clarence,,  lieutenant  of  Ireland,  to  Richard  Heron  late  of  London,  merchant, 
alias  of  Westminster,  of  the  office  of  master  and  worker  of  the  king's  mints 
and  coinage  within  the  cities,  towns  or  castles  of  Dublin,  Drodath,  Trym, 
Waterford,  Cork  and  Lymryk  and  elsewhere  in  Ireland,  receiving  the 
accustomed  frees  from  the  issues  of  the  coinage  with  all  other  profits. 

By  p.s. 

Grant  to  William  John,  lieutenant  of  Croysik  in  Brittany,  of  100/.  from 
the  customs  and  subsidies  in  the  ports  of  Dertmouth  and  Excestre,  in  full 
satisfaction  of  a  ship  of  Brittany  and  goods  and  merchandise  to  the  value 
of  500  crowns  taken  from  him  by  certain  subjects  of  the  king  of  Fowy 
contrary  to  the  friendship  between  the  king  and  his  kinsman  the  duke  of 
Brittany.  By  p.s. 


July  30. 
Westminster. 


Aug.  21. 

Westminster. 

Aug.  6. 
Westminster. 

Aug.  8. 
Westminster. 


July  L 
Westminster. 


Membrane  21. 

Grant  to  Gerard  Canizian  of  London,  merchant,  and  his  heirs  and 
assigns,  because  he  has  spent  divers  sums  of  money  amounting  in  all  to 
4,000  marks  for  the  king  and  has  as  yet  had  no  payment,  of  the  custody  of 
all  castles,  lordships,  manors,  lands,  rents,  services  and  ^possessions  late 
of  Alice,  lady  of  Lovell,  deceased,  tenant  in  chief,  from  Easter  last  during 
tlie  minority  of  Francis  her  son  and  heir,  and  so  from  heir  to  heir  during 
minority,  in  satisfaction  and  recompence  of  such  part  of  the  said  sum  of 
4,000  marks  as  the  issues  thus  received  by  him  shall  amount  to.       By  p.s. 

Licence  for  the  prior  and  convent  of  the  monastery  of  Westminster  by 
London  to  elect  an  abbot  in  the  place  of  Thomas  Milling,  last  abbot, 
resigned.  By  p.s. 

Appointment,  during  pleasure,  of  John  Sorell,  to  the  office  of  tronage 
and  pesage  in  the  port  of  Suthamjjton  and  ports  and  places  adjacent, 
receiving  the  accustomed  fees.  By  bill  of  the  treasurer. 

Grant  to  the  king's  kinsman  Thomas,  cardinal  archbishop  of  Canterbury, 
of  the  custod}-  of  all  lordships,  manors,  lands,  rents,  services  and  possessions 
with  advowsons,  knights'  fees,  courts  ieet,  views  of  frank- jiledge,  fairs, 
markets,  parks,  warrens,  franchises,  liberties,  profits  and  other  commodities 
late  of  Robert  Tey,  esquire,  tenant  in  chief  by  knight  service,  or  any  other 
ancestor  of  William  Tey  liis  son  and  heir  during  tlie  minority  of  the  latter 
with  his  custody  and  marriagt;  without  disparagement  and  so  from  heir  to 
heir,  finding  a  competent  sustenance  for  the  heir  and  supporting  the  houses, 
enclosures  and  buildings.  By  K. 

Licence  for  Laurence,  I>isliop  of  Durham,  John,  bishop  of  Exeter,  and 
John  Nnyler,  one  of  the  clerks  of  Chancery,  and  the  executors  and  assigns 
of  the  aid  .John  Nayler  to  found  a  perpetual  chantry  of  one  chaplain  to 


14  EDWARD  IV.— Part  II. 


469 


1474,  Membrane  21 — coiit. 

celebrate  divine  service  daily  in  the  parish  church  of  St.  Petroc,  Bodmin, 
or  in  tlie  conventual  church  of  the  priory  of  St.  Petroc,  Bodmin,  co. 
Cornwall,  or  in  any  other  consecrated  place  that  may  please  them  for  the 
good  estate  of  the  kin"  and  his  consort  Elizabeth,  (pioon  of  England,  and 
the  said  bishops  and  John  and  for  their  souls  after  death  and  the  souls  of 
Stephen  Nayler  and  Matilda  his  wife,  parents  of  the  said  .John,  Katharine 
late  the  wife  of  the  said  John,  Tlioinaa  Nayler  and  Ilichard  Nayler,  clerks, 
sons  of  the  said  Stephen  and  Matilda,  and  all  other  sons,  daughters,  parents, 
brothers,  sisters  and  friends  of  the  said  Stephen  and  Matilda  and  all  who 
may  lend  hand  to  the  support  of  the  chantry,  to  be  call(;d  the  chaplain  of 
the  chantry  of  Stephen  Nayler  of  Bodmyn,  and  for  the  said  chaplain  and 
his  successors  to  acquire  in  mortmain  lands,  tenements,  rents  and  annuities, 
not  held  in  chief,  to  the  value  of  G/.  yearly  for  their  sustenance.       By  p.s. 

Oct.  25.        Grant  to  Ilichard  Fynes,  lord  Dakers,  Walter  Devereux,  lord  Ferrers, 
Westminster,  and  Master  William  Dudley,  king's  cliaplain,  and  their  assigns  of  the 
collation  to  the  next  vacant  prebend  in  the  king's  college  of  St.  George 
within  the  castle  of  Wyndesore.  By  p.s. 

Nov.  17.  Exemplification,  at  the  request  of  John  Keme,  of  the  tenour  of  the 
Westminster,  enrolment  of  a  charter  dated  at  Westminster,  14  October.  33  Edward  I. 

[Charter  Jioll, '33  Edward  I.  No.  12]  granting  to  Henry  de  Lacy,  earl 
of  Lincoln,  and  his  heirs  a  market  and  fair  at  their  manor  of  Waynefletc, 
CO.  Lincoln.  This  charter  has  been  lost  by  accident,  as  the  said  John  has 
taken  oath  in  Chancery,  and  will  be  surrendered  if  found. 


Membrane  20. 

Aug.  5.  Writ  de  intendcndo  directed  to  the  knights,  free  men  and  other  tenants 
Westminster,  of  the  monastery  of  Waltham  Holy  Cross,  of  the  order  of  St.  Augustine,  in 
the  diocese  of  Loudon,  for  Thomas  Edward,  whom  the  prior  and  convent 
have  elected  abbot  on  the  resignation  of  John  Lucas,  last  abbot,  the  king 
liaving  given  his  assent  to  the  election  and  taken  his  fealty  and  restored 
the  temporalities  to  him,  as  all  abbots  of  the  monastery  are  true  abbots  on 
election  without  any  coniirmation.  By  p.s.  and  by  K. 

Aug.  2.  Appointment,  during  pleasure,  of  Vincent  F'ynche  as  controller  of  the 
Westminster,  great  and  petty  custom,  (he  subsidy  of  wools,  hides  aiul  wool-fells  and  (he 
subsidy  of  the  3.9.  in  the  tun  and  the  Vld.  in  the  pound  in  tlic  j)ort  of 
Chichester  and  ports  and  places  adjacent,  receiving  the  accustomed  fees, 
provided  that  he  execute  tiic  ollice  in  person,  with  tiic  custody  of  one  part 
of  the  cokut  seal.  J5y  bill  of  liie  treasurer, 

Aug.  2.        John  Pyg^e,  bishop  of  Ardfert  {Ilarljorlcn  ')  and  par.son  of  the  parish 
Westminster,  church  of  St.  Christopher,  London,  going  beyond  the  seas,  lias  letters 
nominating  Christopher  Ilanyugton,  '  gcntihnan,'  and  John  Cristcde  of 
Loudon,  'gentilman,'  his  attorneys  for  one  year. 
Oct.  13.        General  pardon  to  INIilcs  ap  Herry  of  Coblyngton,  co.  Hereford,  esquire, 
Westminster,   alias  '  gentilman,'  of  all  offences  committed  by  him  bcfor  8  October. 

By  p.s. 

Oct.  14.        Mandate  to  all  bailiffs  and  others  to  permit  John  (iaunt,  moid<,  born  at 
Westminster.  Perth  in  Scotland,  dwelling  at  Warden,  co.  Bedford,  who  has  taken  an  oath 
of  fealty,  to  inhabit  the  realm  i)eaccably  and  enjoy  his  goods.  By  K. 

Oct.  25.  Presentation  of  Hugh  Harflot,  chaplain,  to  the  parish  church  of 
Westminster.  Mylkestede,  in  the  diocese  of  Canterbury. 


CALENDA.R  OF  PATENT  ROLLS. 


1474,  Membrane  20 — cont. 

Oct.  29.        Grant  for  life  to  the  king's  servant  Peter  Courteys  of  the  office  of  the 
Westminster,  custody  of  the  king's  plot  within  the  palace  of  Westminster  which  William 
Trussell,  deceased,  lately  had  of  the  king's  grant,  with  the  accustomed  fees. 

By  p.s. 

Oct.  31.        Grant  for  life  to  Richard  Patyn  of  Ad.  daily  from  the  issues  of  the 
Westminster,  meadow  called  '  the  kinges  medow '  and  the  king's  mill  by  the  castle  of 
Nottingham.  By  p.s. 

Nov.  8.  Grant  for  life  to  Thomas  Asshe,  for  his  good  service  to  the  king  in  his 
Westminster,  journeys  {viagiis)  at  Barnet  and  Tewkesbury  against  the  rebels,  of  the 
manor  of  Burneham  Sutton  and  three  tenements  in  Southlynne,  co. 
Norfolk,  late  of  Giles  Sayntlowe  late  of  Watford,  co.  Hertford,  esquire, 
and  in  the  king's  hands  by  virtue  of  an  act  of  forfeiture  in  Parliament  at 
Westminster,  4  November,  1  Edward  IV.  against  the  said  Giles  by  the 
name  of  Giles  Sayntlowe  late  of  London,  esquire,  to  hold  by  the  accustomed 
services  with  knights'  fees,  advowsons,  fairs,  markets,  rents  and  services. 

By  p.s. 

Nov.  10.  Licence,  for  6s.  8c?.,  paid  in  the  hanaper,  for  John  Clogh  to  enfeoff 
Westminster.  Oliver  Woderofe  of  two  bovates  of  land  in  Hope,  held  in  chief. 

Nov.  11.        General  pardon  to  the  king's  kinsman  George,  archbishop  of  York,  of  all 
Westminster,  offences  committed  by  him  and  all  lines,  amercements,   issues,  debts, 
accounts  and  arrears  due   from   him   to   the   king  before   1  August, 
14  Edward  IV.  By  p.s. 


Membrane  19. 

Sept.  30.  Mandate  to  the  escheator  in  the  county  of  Norfolk  for  the  restitution  of 
Woburn.  the  temporalities  of  the  monastery  of  St.  Edmund  Bury,  of  the  order  of 
St.  Benedict,  in  the  diocese  of  Norwich,  immediately  subject  to  the  Roman 
church,  to  Richard  Hengham,  bachelor  in  decrees,  elected  abbot  by  the 
prior  and  convent  on  the  death  of  Robert  Ixworth,  last  abbot,  the  king 
having  given  his  assent  to  the  election  and  taken  his  fealty,  as  in  accordance 
with  an  indult  of  the  apostolic  see  no  confirmation  is  required.  By  K. 

The  like  to  the  escheators  in  the  following  counties  : — 
Suifolk. 
Cambridge. 

The  like  to  John  Tate,  mayor  of  London  and  escheator  in  that  city. 
Writ  de  intendendo  in  pursuance  to  the  tenants. 

Oct.  5.         Grant  to  the  king's  .servants  William  Trussell,  knight  of  the  body,  and 
Wycombe.    John  Cheyne,  esquire,  of  the  collation  to  the  next  vacant  canonry  and 
prebend  in  the  king's  free  chapel  or  collegiate  church  of  St.  Mary  and 
St.  George  within  the  castle  of  Wyndcsore.  By  p.s. 

Oct.  14.  General  pardon  to  William  Pouche  late  of  Shrewardyn,  co.  Salop, 
Westminster.  '  yoman,'  of  all  offences  committed  by  him  before  17  March  last.       By  p.s. 

Oct.  10.  Grant  to  Humphrey  Stafford  of  Grafton,  esquire,  and  the  heirs  male  of 
Westminstei-.  his  body  of  the  lordships  and  manors  of  Clent,  Honnesworth  and  Meere, 
CO.  Statibrd,  with  advowsons,  knights'  fees,  courts  baron,  views  of  frank- 
pledge and  all  appurtenances,  late  of  James  Ormonde,  late  earl  of 
Wiltshire,  attainted  of  high  treason  by  authority  of  Parliament,  and  in  the 
king's  hands  by  his  forfeiture,  and  the  lordships  and  manors  of  Severne 
Stoke  and  Ekynton,  co.  Worcester.  Avith  advowsons,  knights'  fees,  courts 
baron,  views  of  frank-pledge  and  all  appurtenances,  late  of  John  Clyfford, 
late  lord  of  Clyfford,  attainted  of  high  treason  by  authority  of  Parliament, 


14  EDWARD  IV.— Part  II. 


471 


1474,  Membrane  19 — cont. 

and  in  the  king's  hands  by  his  forfeiture,  not  exceeding  the  yearly  value 
of  85/.,  to  hold  by  the  services  of  as  many  knights'  fees  and  as  many  ether 
rents  and  services  as  they  were  held  by  before  4  March,  1  Edward  IV. 

By  p.s. 

Nov.  1.  Gi-ant,  for  the  continuation  and  increase  of  the  shipping  in  the  port  of 
Westminster.  Bristol,  to  Thomas  Hexton,  John  Peuke  and  John  Hemmyng,  merchants 
of  Bristol,  owners  of  a  ship  called  la  Marie  Redecli/ff,  Louis  Johns, 
John  Fuyster  and  John  Wythepoll,  merchants  of  the  same  town,  owners 
of  a  ship  called  la  Marye  Grace,  William  Wodyngton,  John  Jay  and 
William  Brid,  merchants  of  the  said  town,  owners  of  a  ship  called  le 
Tryiiijte,  and  the  said  William  Bryd  and  John  Skryven,  merchant  of  the 
said  town,  owners  of  a  ship  called  le  James,  that  they  may  load  the  said 
ships  in  the  said  port  with  any  goods  and  merchandise  not  of  the  staple  of 
Calais  before  Christmas  next  and  take  the  same  to  the  parts  of  Seville, 
Portugal  and  Spain  and  load  the  ships  with  other  goods  and  merchandise  and 
bring  the  same  back  to  the  said  port  quit  of  customs  and  subsidies.   By  p.s. 

Nov.  6.  Grant  in  frank  almoin  to  Richard  Wode,  the  prior,  and  the  convent  of 
Westminster.  St.  Mary,  Stodeley,  co.  Warwick,  of  the  king's  free  chapel  of  St.  Mary 
Magdalen  at  Spon  by  Coventre  and  all  lands,  tenements,  meadows,  feedings, 
pastures,  woods,  offerings,  commodities,  rights,  profits,  liiiortics,  francliises 
and  other  emoluments  belonging  to  it,  to  pray  for  the  good  estate  of  the  king 
and  his  consort  Eliziibeth,  qiieon  of  England,  and  his  firstborn  son 
Edward,  prince  of  Wales,  duke  of  Cornwall  anil  carl  of  Chester,  and  for 
their  souls  alter  death  and  the  soul  of  the  king's  lather  Richard,  late  duke 
of  York,  and  the  king's  progenitors. 

By  p.s.  and  for  12/.  paid  in  the  hanaper. 

Nov.  8.        Appointment  of  Thomas  Asshe,  John  Ilaster  and  John  Robyns  to 
Westmiuster.  repair  the  king's  ship  called  le  Antony,  and  to  lake  smiths,  carpenters  and 
other  workmen  and  timber,  iron,  boards,  canvas,  j)itch  and  other  necessaries 
for  the  same.  By  K. 

Nov.  9.         Appointment  of  the  king's  servant  Edward  Burton  as  one  of  the  yeomen 
Westminster,   of  the  crown,  and  grant  to  him  of  6c/.  daily  for  life  for  his  fee  from  the 
fee  farm  of  the  town  of  Gloucester.  By  p.s, 


Membrane  18. 

Nov.  25.        Grant  during  pleasure  to  the  guardian  and  convent  of  the  Friars  Minor 
Westminster,  in  the  University  of  Cambridge  of  25  marks  yearly  at  the  reccijjt  of  the 
Exchequer  from  Easter  last  of  the  king's  alms,  as  Henry  III.  and 
Edward  I.  and  other  progenitors  of  the  king  have  granted  to  them  by 
letters  patent.  By  p.s. 

Nov.  22.       Pardon  to  George  Luraley,  knight,  late  sheriff  of  Northumberland,  alias 
Westminster,  late  under-sherilf  of  Northumberland,  alias  constable  of  the  castle  of 
Scardeburgh,  of  all  offences  committed  by  him  and  all  tines,  amercements, 
issues,  debts,  accounts  and  arrears  due  from  him  to  the  kiug  by  reason  of 
his  said  offices.  By  p.s, 

Nov.  28.  Jnspeximus  of  the  following  : — Grant  by  William  Tybcrt  and  John 
Westminster.  Wyldc,  clerks,  to  John  Leynham  alius  Plomcr,  citizen  and  grocer  of 
London,  and  Margaret  his  wife  and  their  heirs  and  assigns  of  the  manor 
of  Horsyngdon  and  the  advowson  of  the  church  of  the  nnuior,  the  manor 
ofSaunturdon  called  '  Cheynesmaner,'  the  manor  of  Saunterdon  and  the 
advowson  of  the  parish  church  of  St.  Mary,  Saunterdon,  and  the  advowson 
of  the  church  of  Saundirdon,  the  manor  of  Bromes  and  the  whole  quit  rent 
in  Saundirdon  aforesaid,  the  manor  of  IMcselo  alias  Druels,  all  the  lands 
called  *  Fastyngdyches '  and  'Botillers'  and  all  other  lands,  tenements, 


472 


CALENDAR  OF  PATENT  ROLLS 


1474. 


Nov.  27. 

Westminster. 


Dec.  7. 

Westminster. 

Dec.  10. 

"\^  cstminster. 


Nov.  29. 
Westminster. 


Membrane  18 — cont. 

rents,  reversions  and  services  with  woods,  meadows,  feedings,  pastures, 
mills,  ways,  paths,  hedges,  ditches,  commons,  fisheries,  rivers,  stews, 
warrens,  escheats,  reliefs,  heriots,  suits,  courts,  views  of  frank-pledge, 
wards,  marriages,  homages,  bondmen  with  their  issue.s,  liberties,  franchises, 
rights  commodities  and  appurtenances  which  they  had  of  the  demise  of 
the  said  John,  John  Stokker,  citizen  and  alderman  of  London,  and  William 
Danvers,  as  is  contained  in  a  charter  dated  5  August,  2  Edward  IV.  and 
which  the  latter  together  with  John  Fray,  knight,  and  AVilliam  Broun, 
now  deceased,  had  of  the  demise  of  John  Brekenoke  late  of  Horsyngdon, 
CO.  Buckingham,  esquire,  Edmund  Hampeden,  knight,  John  Cheyne,  knight, 
William  Baron,  William  Cleve,  Edmund  Brndeuell,  John  Hampeden  of 
Kymbell,  and  William  Davy  in  Plorsyngdon,  Saundirdon,  Resiburgh, 
West  Wycombe,  Sauntuvdon,  Prince's  Risburgh,  Kynggesey,  Saunterdon, 
Astonstanford  and  in  the  parishes  of  Hadenham  and  Ilmer,  as  is  contained 
in  a  charter  dated  14  March,  37  Henry  VI.  with  a  provision  that  if  the 
said  Margaret  marry  again  after  the  death  of  her  husband  she  shall  have 
estate  in  the  premises  for  her  life  only,  the  reversion  belonging  to  the  heirs 
and  assigns  of  her  husband.  Witnesses : — Edmund  Rede,  Richard  Hare- 
court,  Robert  Fitzelys,  esquires,  Edmund  Brudenell,  Richard  Bedford, 
John  Broke  and  others.    Horsyngdon,  18  August,  2  Edward  IV. 

Grant  to  the  king's  servant  George  Louekyn,  one  of  the  yeomen  of  the 
wardrobe,  in  repayment  of  the  sum  of  107/.  2*.  4c?.  in  which  the  king  is 
indebted  to  him  for  divers  bombazines  and  other  linen  and  woollen  cloths 
delivered  by  him  into  the  wardrobe  for  the  king's  use  and  for  the  expenses 
of  the  making  and  working  of  the  same,  that  he  or  his  executors  after  his 
decease  or  their  factors  or  attorneys  may  ship  woollen  cloths  in  the  ports  of 
London  and  Southampton  and  take  them  to  any  foreign  parts  and  bring 
back  other  merchandise  to  the  said  ports  quit  of  customs  and  subsidies 
until  he  shall  thus  be  fully  satisfied  of  the  said  sura.  By  p.s. 

Presentation  of  William  Ardern,  chaplain,  to  the  parish  church  of  Little 
Stanbrigge,  in  the  diocese  of  London,  void  by  the  resignation  of  Thomas 
Ardern,  last  parson. 

General  pardon  to  Nicholas  Prat  of  the  town  of  Haydor,  co.  Lincoln, 
'  gentilman,'  alias  merchant,  alias  Nicholas  Cbamberleyn,  John  Westland 
late  of  Honyngton,  co.  Lincoln,  'yoman,'  alias  John  Westlawe  late  of 
Haydor,  '  laborer,'  Bartholomew  Johnson  of  Haydor  and  John  Panne  late 
of  Aseby,  co.  Lincoln,  '  laborers,'  of  all  offences  committed  by  them  before 
7  December.  By  p.s. 

Mandate  to  the  escheator  in  the  county  of  Middlesex  for  the  restitution 
of  the  temporalities  of  the  abbey  of  Westminster,  immediately  subject  to 
the  Roman  church,  of  the  order  of  St.  Benedict,  in  the  diocese  of  London, 
to  John  Esteney,  whom  the  pope  has  appointed  abbot  by  bull  in  the  place 
of  Thomas  Millyng,  bishop  of  Hereford,  last  abbot,  and  who  has  renounced 
all  words  prejudicial  to  the  king  and  his  crown  in  the  said  bull  before 
Thomas,  bisliop  of  Lincoln,  the  chancellor,  appointed  together  with  John 
Morton,  doctor  of  laws,  keeper  of  the  rolls  of  Chancery,  and  John  Broun, 
clerk,  to  receive  the  renunciation,  and  whose  fealty  the  king  has  ordered  to 
be  taken  by  the  said  bishop,  John  and  John. 

The  like  to  the  escheators  in  the  following  counties  : — 

Worcester. 
Surrey. 
Oxford. 
Gloucester. 
Buckingham. 
Writ  de  intendcndo  in  pursuance  to  the  tenants. 


14  EDWARD  IV.— Part  II. 


473 


14'74^  Membrane  17. 

Nov.  29.  General  pardon  to  Richard  Palmer  of  Wykewan,  co.  Gloucester, 
Westminster.  '  husbondman.'  By  p.s. 

Dec.  1.         Protection,  for  one  year,  for  William  Frankeleyn  of  Chester,  alias 
Westminster.  William  Temple,  yeoman  of  the  king's  ordnance,  and  his  servants,  lands 
and  possessions.  By  K, 

Nov.  30.  Exeniplification,  at  the  request  of  the  king's  servant  John  Gogh,  of  the 
Westminster,   tenour  of  the  enrolment  of  letters  patent  dated  2  June,  12  Edward  IV. 

(see  p.  344)  granting  to  him  the  office  of  bailiff  of  Dunster  and  the  custody 
of  the  park  of  Mersshewode,  co.  Somerset.  These  letters  have  been 
lost  by  accident,  as  he  has  taken  oath  in  Chancery,  and  will  be  surrendered 
if  found. 

Nov.  29.        Protection  with  clause  volwmis,  for  one  year,  for  William  Wcste  late  of 
Westminster,  Sudbury,  co.  Suffolk,  esquire,  alias  '  marchant,'  going  to  Ireland  on  the 
king's  service  in  the  company  of  the  king's  brother  George,  duke  of 
Clarence,  lieutenant  of  Ireland,  on  the  i^afe  custody,  defence  and  victualling 
of  that  land.  By  bill  of  p.s. 

Dec.  5.  Grant  to  the  king's  servant  John  Fortescu,  esquire,  and  the  heirs  male 
Westminster,  of  his  body  of  the  manors  of  Halwell,  Highaunton  by  Shcpeswasshe, 
Northlow  and  Holway,  co.  Devon,  in  the  king's  Jiands  by  the  forfeiture  of 
William  Cary,  knight,  to  hold  by  knight-service  with  knights'  fees, 
advowsons,  courts  leet,  views  of  frank-pledge,  ])arks,  Avarrens,  chases, 
wastes,  markets,  fairs,  liberties,  franchises,  wards,  marriages,  escheats, 
reliefs  and  services  of  tenants,  in  lieu  of  a  like  grant  to  him  for  life  l)y 
letters  patent  dated  28  July,  7  Edward  IV.  surrendered.  And  this  without 
any  fee  of  the  seal.  By  K. 

Dec.  IG.        Appointment,  until  16  June,  of  Thomas  Lynche,  yeoman  purveyor  of 
Westminster,  the  buyer  of  the  household,  to  take  beeves,  muttons,  calves,  pigs,  salt-  and 
fresh-water  fish  and  other  necessaries  for  the  expenses  of  the  household. 

By  bill  of  the  treasurer  of  the  household. 

Nov.  29.  Licence,  for  13s.  4J.  paid  in  the  hanaper,  for  JohnRobcrd,  John  Clerk, 
Westminster.  John  Palmer,  chaplains,  and  John  Clerk  of  Norhampton,  '  baker,'  to  grant 
a  messuage  in  Norhampton  called  '  Coyfrowe,'  held  in  chief,  to  Thomas 
Derby  of  Norhampton  flie  ehler,  'mercer,'  and  Agnes  his  wife,  John 
Grenborough,  chaplain,  Henry  Colman  of  Norhampton,  '  deyster,'  John 
Artilburgh  of  the  same,  '  potycary,'  and  John  Welles  of  the  same  the 
younger,  '  mercer,'  and  their  heirs. 

General  pardon   to   Richard   Palmer   of  Wykewan,  co.  Gloucester, 
'husbondman.'  By  p.s. 

July  2.  Pardon  to  John  Taylour  of  the  parish  of  Bishop's  Lydeyerd,  co. 
Westminster.  Somerset,  '  husbondman,' of  iiis  outlawry  in  the  county  of  Somerset  for 
not  appearing  before  Ricliard  Chokke,  knight,  and  liis  fellows,  ju.stices  of 
the  peace  and  of  oyer  and  terminer  in  the  said  county,  to  answer  Thomas 
Taylour  for  having  on  30  Marcii,  12  Edward  IV.  broken  and  entered  liis 
house  at  the  said  parish  and  assaulted  him  ;  the  said  J ohn  liaving  surrendered 
to  the  king's  prison  of  Ivelchestre,  as  the  said  llicliard  has  certified. 


Membrane  16. 

Dec.  14.        Grant  to  the  merchants  of  the  Teutonic  ITause,  who  have  the  Teutonic 
Westminster.  Guildhall  in  London,  in  satisfaction  and  rccompencc  of  the  los.ses  which 
they  have  sustained  from  the  subjects  of  the  crown  of  England,  that  they 
may  bring  all  kinds  of  merchandise  from  any  foreign  parts  to  the  realm  of 
England  and  ship  any  merchandise  not  of  the  staple  in  any  port  of  the 


474 


CALENDAR  OF  PATENT  ROLLS. 


J474.  Membrane  16 — cont. 

realm  in  any  ships  or  vessels  and  take  the  same  to  foreign  parts  quit  of 
customs  and  subsidies,  at  the  rate  at  which  they  paid  before  the  fifth  year 
of  the  reign,  to  the  sum  of  10,000/.  By  p.s. 

Dec.  18.  Appointment,  during  pleasure,  of  Richard  Copcote  to  take  carpenters 
Westminster,  called  '  whelers '  and  '  cartvvrightes '  and  other  carpenters,  stone-cutters, 
smiths,  plumbers,  and  other  workmen  for  the  works  of  the  king's  ordnance 
and  bombards,  cannons,  '  culverynes,'  '  fowelers,'  *  serpentines,'  powder, 
'sulphir,'  'saltpetyr,'  stone,  iron,  lead,  crossbows  and  I)olts  for  them,  bows, 
arrows,  *  bowestaves,'  '  bowestryngos,'  '  langedeves,'  lances, '  gley ves,'  and 
hammers  and  other  necessaries.  [FcederaJ] 

The  like  of  John  Scotte. 

Dec.  5.  Grant  to  Peter  Neto,  merchant,  subject  of  the  king's  kinsman  Henry, 
Westminster,  king  of  Castile  and  Leon,  of  200/.  from  a  moiety  of  the  customs  and 
subsidies  of  all  goods  and  merchandise  of  merchants  of  Spain  in  the  ports 
of  Sandwich,  Suthampton  and  Bristol,  in  recompense  of  the  losses  sustained 
by  him  when  coming  to  England  with  a  ship  laden  with  wines,  goods  and 
other  merchandise,  of  which  he  was  despoiled  on  the  high  seas  by  certain 
pirates  of  Fowey  contrary  to  the  form  of  the  truces  between  the  king  and 
his  said  kinsman.  By  K.  and  C. 

Aug.  20.  Licence,  at  the  instance  of  the  king's  kinsman,  Francis,  duke  of  Brittany, 
Westminster,  and  the  inhabitants  of  the  asylum  or  '  mynychy  '  of  St.  Pol,  in  the  diocese  of 
Leon,  and  the  ports  and  havens  of  Penpoull,  Arnorica,  Eousgo  and  Pouldu 
and  the  islands  of  Bazanisula,  HensaufP,  Moalones,  Quemenes,  Trielen, 
Bamnench  and  Balaznench,  in  the  same  diocese,  for  the  publication 
throughout  the  realm  of  England  and  other  places  under  the  king's 
obedience,  saving  always  the  rights  and  privileges  of  the  crown,  of  apostolic 
letters  which  pope  Sixtus  has  issued  at  their  request  against  the  pirates  and 
sea  robbers  who  plunder  in  the  above-mentioned  places  and  the  neighbouring 
seas,  and  also  duly  authenticated  copies  of  the  same.  By  K. 

Nov.  28.  General  pardon  to  Joan  Ungle  the  wife  of  John  Ungle  late  of  London, 
Westminster.  '  laborer.'  By  K. 


Membrane  15. 

Aug.  16.        General  pardon  to  Marcellus  de  Roma,  doctor  of  either  law,  late  of 
Windsor.     Ireland,  of  all  offences  committed  by  him  in  Ireland,  all  exile  of  him  from 
Ireland  by  authority  of  the  Parliament  there  and  all  forfeitures  of  any  fees, 
annuities,  pensions  or  goods  of  his  in  Ireland  by  authority  of  the  said 
ParHament.  By  p.s. 

Aug.  15.  Protection  for  John,  archbishop  of  Dublin,  primate  of  Ireland,  who  has 
Westminster,  come  from  Ireland  for  certain  causes  concerning  the  king's  person  and  that 
land  and  proposes  to  return  thither,  and  his  lauds  and  possessions ;  grant 
that  he  may  enter  freely  into  all  the  temporalities  of  his  archbishopric  ;  and 
pardon  to  him  of  all  ofiences  committed  by  him  and  all  issues  and  forfeitures 
due  from  him  to  the  king.  By  K. 

Aug.  27.        Signification  to  pope  Sixtus  of  the  royal  assent  to  the  election  of  Dan 
Westminster.  .John  Estcney  as  abbot  of  the  monastery  of  Westminster  by  London, 
immediately  subject  to  the  Roman  church,  void  by  the  consecration  of 
Thomas,  last  abbot,  as  bishop  of  Hereford. 

June  13.        Inspexhnus  and  confirmation  to  the  vicars  of  the  cathedral  church  of 
Westminster.  St.  Mary,  Lincoln,  of  letters  patent  dated  9  November,  9  Henry  VI. 
granting  that  they  shall  form  a  corporate  body. 

For  ^  mark  paid  in  the  banaper. 


14  EDWARD  IV.— Paet  II. 


475 


Sept.  14. 
liuckden. 


Sept.  19. 
Kcuilworth. 


X474.  Membrane  15 — cont. 

Aug.  26.       Signification  to  Th.  bishop  of  Lincoln  of  the  royal  assent  to  the  election 
Buckden.     of  John  Sepysliede,  canon  of  the  house  of  St.  Mary  de  Pratis,  Leycestre,  of 
the  order  of  St.  Augustine,  as  abbot  of  that  place. 

Sept.  2.        Mandate  to  the  escheator  in  the  counties  of  Warwick  and  Leicester  for 
Liddington.    the  restitution  of  the  temporalities  of  the  abbey  of  St.  Mary  do  Pratis, 
Leycestre,  of  the  order  of  St.  Augustine,  to  John  Sepyshede,  canon  of  the 
house,  whose  election  as  abbot  Th.  bishop  of  Lincoln  has  confirmed  and 
whose  fealty  the  king  lias  taken. 

The  like  to  the  escheators  in  the  following  counties : 
Bedford  and  Buckingham. 
Lincoln. 

Nottingham  and  Derby. 

Northampton  and  Rutland. 
The  like  to  John  Tate,  mayor  of  London  and  escheator  in  that  city. 
Writ  de  intendendo  in  pursuance  to  the  tenants. 

Licence  for  the  prior  and  convent  of  the  monastery  of  St.  Edmund,  of 
the  order  of  St.  Benedict,  in  the  diocese  of  Norwich,  to  elect  an  abbot  in 
the  place  of  Robert,  last  abbot,  deceased.  By  p.s. 

Grant  for  life  to  the  king's  servant  Thomas  Gilbert,  page  of  the 
wardrobe  for  the  king's  robes,  of  the  office  of  tlic  portage  or  porter  of  the 
king's  liveries  of  the  great  wardrobe  within  the  city  of  London,  receiving 
the  accustomed  fees  with  all  profits  as  John  Houghton  or  any  other 
occupant  of  the  office  had.  By  I£. 

Mem  BR  Am  14. 

Nov.  21.        Grant  for  life  to  the  king's  servant  Peter  Courtoys,  yeoman  of  the 
Westminster,  king's  wardrobe,  of  tlic  office  of  the  custody  of  the  king's  privy  palace  of 
Westminster,  receiving  the  accustomed  fees  as  William  'lYussell,  deceased, 
had  in  the  same  olfico  from  the  issues  of  the  fee  farm  of  the  city  of 
Winchester.  By  p.s. 

Oct.  10.        Grant  to  the  king's  kinsman  Anthony,  earl  Ryvieros,  of  the  custody  of 
Westminster,  all  castles,  manors,  lordships,  lands  and  tenements  late  of  Jolm  Throgmarton, 
esquire,  tenant  in  chief,  during  the  minority  of  Christopher  Throgmarton 
his  son  and  heir,  with  the  marriage  of  the  latter  without  disparagement,  and 
so  from  heir  to  heir.  By  p.s. 

Nov.  23.  Pardon  to  Walter  Teny  late  of  Morvell,  co.  Cornwall,  '  marchand,'  alias 
Wcstmiuster.  of  Somerton,  co.  Somerset,  'yoman,'  of  his  outlawry  in  the  county  of 
Wilts  for  not  appearing  before  Robert  Danby  and  his  fellows,  late  justices 
of  the  Bench,  to  satisfy  the  king  of  his  ransom  for  having  denied  two 
writings  obligatory  of  liis  which  Robert  Eston  of  Salisbury,  '  marchand,' 
produced  against  him  in  court  before  th(i  said  justices,  of  which  he  was 
convicted ;  lie  having  surrendered  to  the  Flete  prison  and  appeared  in 
court  in  his  own  person  and  sought  to  be  admitted  to  fine,  and  the  said 
Robert  Eston  having  acknowledged  him.self  satisfied  of  the  debt  and 
damages,  and  the  saitl  Walter  having  been  admitted  to  fine  by  pledges  of 
John  Baker  of  London,  'gentilnian,'  and  Thomas  Martyn  of  Loudon, 
'shermau,'  as  Thomas  Bryan,  chief  justice  of  the  Bench,  has  certified. 
Nov.  24.  Grant  for  life  to  the  king's  servant  John  Tremaile  of  the  office  of 
Westminster,  searcher  of  the  port  and  town  of  Calais,  Avith  the  accustomed  fees,  in  the 
same  manner  as  William  Sherbouru,  esquire,  deceased,  had  of  the  kind's 
grant.  By  p.s.  [4022.] 

Nov.  28.  General  pardon  to  Julian  Bailly  late  of  Evesham,  co.  Worcester, 
Westminster.  '  widowe,'  of  all  offences  committed  by  her  before  6  October  last.      By  p.s. 


476 


CALENDAR  OF  PATENT  ROLLS. 


1474,  Membrane  14 — cont. 

Sept.  20.        Grant  for  life  to  the  king's  servant  John  de  Lee,  one  of  the  yeomen  of 
Kilworth     the  kin<;;'s  chamber,  of  all  the  lands  late  of  Hugh  Helton,  rebel,  within  the 
iKi/llt/iiffworth).  ^^Q^y^^      Gildeford  and  without,  in  the  king's  hands  by  his  rebellion  and 
afterwards  granted  by  the  king  to  John  Houghton,  one  of  the  yeomen  of 
the  crown,  now  deceased,  not  exceeding  the  yearly  value  of  4  marks. 

By  p.s. 

Sept.  20.       Grant  for  life  to  the  king's  servitor  Thomas  Twysday,  one  of  the 
Kilworth.     grooms  of  the  king's  chamber,  of  all  the  lands  which  the  king  has  or  ought 
to  have  in  the  town  of  Blencogo,  co.  Cumberland,  and  which  Richard 
Redman,  knight,  lately  had  of  the  grant  of  Henry  IV.  to  the  value  of 
5  marks  yearly.  By  p.s. 

Sept.  20.       General  pardon  to  William  Hoge  of  Exmouthe,  co.  Devon,  'yoman.' 
Westminster.  By  p.S. 

Dec.  4.  Exemplification,  at  the  request  of  "William  Hastynges,  knight,  lord 
Westminster.  Hastynges,  the  king's  chamberlain,  of  the  tenour  of  the  enrolment  of  a 
charter  dated  at  Westminster,  14  November,  13  Edward  IV.  \_Charter  Roll, 
11-14  Edward  IV.  No.  4],  granting  to  him  and  his  heirs  and  assigns  two 
fairs  yearly  at  Assheby  de  la  Zouche,  co.  Leicester.  This  charter  has  been 
lost  by  accident,  as  he  has  taken  oath  in  Chancery,  and  will  be  surrendered 
if  found. 

Dec.  1.  Pardon  to  the  abbot,  prior  and  convent  of  Westminster  of  all  debts  and 
Westminster,  accounts  due  from  them  to  the  king  for  the  custody  of  the  temporalities  of 
the  abbey  and  the  liberties  and  franchises  of  the  abbot  or  for  all  issues, 
fines  and  amercements  belonging  to  the  king  by  reason  of  the  voidance  of 
the  abbey  by  the  consecration  of  Thomas  Myllyng,  late  abbot,  as  bishop  of 
Hereford.  By  p.s. 

Dec.  7.         Commission  to  Geoffrey  Kent  of  the  office  of  ti'onage  and  pesage  in  the 
Westminster,  port  of  Ipswich  and  ports  and  places  adjacent  receiving  the  accustomed 
fees.  By  bill  of  the  treasurer. 


Membrane  13. 

Nov.  11.  Licence  for  the  sub-prior  and  convent  of  Bcrnewell  to  elect  a  prior  in  the 
Westminster,  place  of  John  Whaddon,  resigned. 

July  10.  Licence  for  Christopher  Cook,  Thomas  Tremayll  and  Thomas  Larder 
Westminster,  to  found  a  perpetual  chantry  at  the  altar  in  the  chapel  of  St.  Mary  in  the 
parish  church  of  St.  Dubricius,  Porlok,  co.  Somerset,  in  the  diocese  of 
Bath  and  Wells,  of  two  chaplains  to  celebrate  divine  service  for  the  good 
estate  of  the  king  and  for  his  soul  after  death  and  the  souls  of  John,  late 
lord  Haryngton,  and  Elizabeth  his  wife,  Robert,  sometime  lord  Haryngton, 
knight,  and  Isabel  his  wife,  William  Bonevile,  late  lord  Bonevile,  knight, 
and  William  Bonevile,  late  lord  Haryngton,  and  their  parent'),  ancestors, 
kinsmen,  friends  and  benefactors  and  all  who  may  lend  hand  to  the  support 
of  the  chantry,  according  to  their  ordinance,  to  be  called  the  chantry  of 
John,  late  lord  Haryngton,  and  Elizabeth  his  wife,  and  to  grant  in  mortmain 
to  the  said  chaplains  the  manor  of  Uggeburgh,  co.  Devon,  and  two 
messuages,  40  acres  of  land  and  3  acres  of  meadow  in  Porlok  and  Luccombo, 
CO.  Somerset,  not  held  in  chief,  for  theii'  sustenance  and  the  support  of 
certain  charges.  By  p.s.  and  for  91/.  lis.  paid  in  the  hanaper. 

Nov.  14.  Pardon  to  William  Hervy  of  Asshwell,  co.  Hertford,'  '  husbondman,  of 
Westminster,  his  outlawry  in  the  said  county  for  not  appearing  before  ihe  king  to 
satisfy  him  of  his  ransom  for  not  holding  John  Yonge  late  of  Asshewell, 
'  laborer,'  before  him  on  a  certain  day  to  answer  Richard  Touker  on  a  plea 
of  trespass ;  he  having  surrendered  to  the  Marshalsea  prison,  as  Thomas 
Billyng,  chief  justice  of  the  King's  Bench,  has  certified. 


14  EDWARD  IV.— Part  II. 


477 


1474. 

Nov.  17. 
Westminster. 


Nov.  4. 

Wcstmiiister. 


Nov.  22. 

Westminster. 


Nov.  24. 

Westiiiiuster. 


Nov.  22. 
Westmiuster. 


Nov. 

Westminster, 


Membrane  13 — cont. 

General  pardon  to  Thomas  Edy  late  of  the  town  of  Westminster,  co. 
Middlesex,  '  yoman,'  alias  clerk,  alias  chaplain,  of  all  offences  committed 
by  him  before  4  November.  By  p.s. 

Pardon  to  the  king's  servant  John  Isley,  esquire,  sheriff  of  Kent,  of  all 
ofFences  committed  by  him  and  all  fines,  amercements,  issues,  debts, 
accounts  and  arrears  due  from  him  to  the  king  by  reason  of  his  otBce. 

By  K. 

Pardon  to  Auerus  Dawe  of  Wilton,  co.  Wilts,  '  lynnenwever,'  of  his 
outlawry  in  the  said  county  for  not  appciaring  l)efore  Kichard  Neuton  and 
his  fellows,  justices  of  the  Bench  of  the  late  king,  to  satisfy  John  Catore 
of  Coventre,  merchant,  of  5  marks  3*.  Ad.  -which  the  latter  recovered 
against  him  before  the  said  justices  and  4  marks  damages;  he  having 
surrendered  to  the  Flete  prison  before  the  justices  of  the  Bench  on 
9  October  last  saying  that  ai'ter  the  delivery  of  the  said  judgment  the  sivid 
Jolm  at  Wilton  by  a  writing  released  to  him  all  actions  for  tlie  said  debt 
and  damages,  whereupon  tlie  sheriff  of  the  county  was  ordered  to  summon 
the  said  John  to  appear  before  the  said  justices  at  a  certain  day  to 
acknowledge  or  deny  the  said  writing,  and  tlie  sheriff  said  that  the  said 
John  was  dead,  and  Elizabeth  Catour,  executrix  of  the  will  of  the  said 
John,  being  summoned  in  like  manner  appeared  by  John  Fulbroke,  lier 
attorney,  and  did  not  deny  the  writing,  as  appears  by  certificate  of  Thomas 
Bryan,  chief  justice  of  the  Bench. 

Pardon,  for  205.  paid  in  the  hanaper,  to  Thomas  Bryan,  chief  justice  of 
the  Common  Bench,  and  I.-^abol  late  the  wife  of  Thomas  Blount,  osi[uirc, 
deceased,  tenant  in  chief,  of  their  trespass  in  intermarrying  without 
licence. 

Pardon  to  llobert  Marshall  of  Bole,  co.  Nottingham,  •  husbondman,' of 
his  outlawry  in  the  county  of  York  for  not  appearing  before  the  justices  of 
the  Bench  to  answer  the  king  and  Hobert  Rayne  of  iliddelwode,  co.  York, 
'  husboiulman,'  for  having  at  Doncaster,  co.  York,  contrary  to  the  form  of 
the  statute  of  8  Henry  VI.  caused  the  latter  to  be  charged  before  Robert 
Clyfton,  knight,  and  AVilliam  AVcntworth,  justices  of  the  peace  and  of  oyer 
and  terminer  in  the  county  of  Nottingham,  Avith  having  with  William 
Rayne  of  Wollcy,  co.  York,  '  laborer,'  and  Thomas  Rayne  of  Shaftholine, 
CO.  York,  '  husbondman,'  on  20  JSeptcmber,  10  Edward  IV.  at  a  hill  called 
'  Brakeholeshill,'  co.  Nottingham,  assaulted  him  and  robbed  him  of  2G.9.  8^/., 
the  said  Robert  Rayne  dwelling  at  Worsop,  co.  Nottingham,  before  and  at 
the  time  of  the  indictment,  whereby  the  latter  was  put  to  great  labour  and 
expense  until  he  was  ac((nitted  at  Notyngham  before  Robert  Sutton,  escpiire, 
.ind  Thomas  Nevyll,  justices  of  the  peace  and  of  oyer  and  terminer  in  the 
said  county  ;  lie  having  surrendered  to  the  Flete  prison,  as  Thomas  Bryan, 
chief  justice  of  the  Bench,  has  certified. 

Signification  to  W.  bishop  of  Ely  of  the  royal  assent  to  the  election  of 
William  Tcbald,  canon  of  the  house  or  priory  of  Beruewell,  of  the  order  of 
St.  Augustine,  as  prior  thereof. 


Membrane  12. 

Dec.  8.  Grant  to  John  Elryngton,  treasurer  of  the  king's  household,  of  the  sum 
Westmiuster.  of  4,9()G/.  6s.  Sd.  yearly  for  ten  years  from  the  feast  of  St.  Thomas  Ajiosllo 
last  for  the  expenses  of  the  liousehohl,  viz.  1,000  marks  from  the  great  and 
petty  customs  in  the  port  of  London,  1,000  marks  from  the  subsidy  of  the 
3s.  in  the  tun  and  the  I2d.  in  the  pound  in  the  said  port  and  ports  and 
places  adjacent,  2001.  from  the  customs  and  subsidies  in  the  nort  of  Bristol 


478 


CALENDAB  OF  PATENT  ROLLS. 


1474.  Membrane  12 — cont. 

and  ports  and  places  adjacent,  200/.  from  the  like  in  the  port  of  Sandwich 
and  ports  and  places  adjacent,  1,000  marks  from  the  like  in  the  port  of 
Suthampton  and  ports  and  places  adjacent,  1,000  marks  from  the  issues  of 
the  hanaper  of  Chancery  after  payment  of  their  fees  to  the  chancellor  and 
other  officers  and  ministers  of  Chancery,  33*.  Ad.  from  the  subsidy  and 
ulnage  of  cloth  and  a  moiety  of  the  forfeiture  of  the  same  in  the  counties 
of  Bedford  and  Buckingham,  33/.  6s.  8c?.  from  the  like  in  the  town  of 
Bristol,  20s.  from  the  like  in  the  counties  of  Cambridge  and  Huntingdon, 
15/.  from  the  like  in  the  counties  of  Devon  and  Cornwall,  100  marks  from 
the  like  in  the  county  of  York,  the  city  of  York  and  the  town  of  Kyngeston 
on  Hull,  20/.  from  the  like  in  the  county  of  Gloucester,  40*.  from  the  like 
in  the  county  of  Hereford,  20/.  from  the  like  in  the  counties  of  Kent, 
Surrey  and  Sussex,  20/.  from  the  like  in  the  city  of  London,  100s.  from 
the  like  in  the  county  of  Lincoln,  20s.  from  the  like  in  the  county  of 
Leicester,  50  marks  from  the  like  in  the  counties  of  Norfolk,  Suffolk  and 
Essex,  40s.  from  the  like  in  the  county  of  Nottingham,  14/.  from  the  like 
in  the  county  of  Northampton,  20/.  from  the  like  in  the  counties  of  Oxford 
and  Berks,  4/.  from  the  like  in  the  county  of  Suthampton,  20/.  from  the 
like  in  the  counties  of  Somerset  and  Dorset,  20s.  from  the  like  in  the  county 
of  Stafford,  20s.  from  the  like  in  the  county  of  Salop,  6/.  from  the  like  in 
the  county  of  Worcester,  20/.  from  the  like  in  the  county  of  "Warwick  and 
the  city  of  Coventry,  40/.  from  the  like  in  the  county  of  Wilts,  1,4.S3/.  6s.  8c/. 
from  all  sums  and  profits  arising  from  the  custody  of  the  land  and  heir 
of  John,  late  earl  of  Shrewsbury,  tenant  in  chief,  and  the  marriage  of 
the  heir,  the  custody  of  the  land  and  heir  of  Thomas  Tresham,  knight, 
tenant  in  chief,  and  (he  marriage  of  the  heir  and  all  other  wards  of 
all  castles,  manors  and  lands  of  other  heirs  of  the  king's  tenants,  the 
marriages,  reliefs  and  forfeitures  of  marriage  of  the  said  heirs,  the  custodies 
of  archbishoprics  and  other  ecclesiastical  benefices  and  other  escheats  and 
forfeitures  belonging  to  the  king  after  this  date,  and  200  marks  from  the 
issues  in  the  office  of  the  chief  butler  of  England,  the  above  being  charges 
on  the  first  moneys  in  each  case.  By  K. 

1475. 

Feb.  9.        Pardon  to  the  king's  servitor  John  Acton  late  of  Whityngton,  co. 
Westminster.  Stafford,  esquire,  late  sheriff  of  Stafford,  alias  John  Acton  of  Beaudeley, 
alias  John  Acton,  '  gentilman  huissher'  of  the  king's  chamber,  of  all 
offences  committed  by  him  and  all  debts,  accounts  and  arrears,  fines,  issues 
and  amercements  due  from  him  to  the  king.  By  p.B. 

2474.  Membranes^  11  aiid  10. 

July  4.  InspecL'iimis  and  confirmation  to  Alexander  Whitley,  the  abbot,  and  the 
Westuiiuster.  convent  of  St,  Mary,  Combe,  of  letters  patent  dated  20  January,  20  Richard  II. 

inspecting  and  confirming  to  William  de  Bretford,  then  abbot,  and  the 
convent  the  following  : — 

1.  A  charter  of  Stephen  dated  at  London. 

2.  A  charter  of  Henry  II.  dated  at  Northampton  to  Martin,  then  abbot, 

and  the  monks. 

3.  A  charter  of  Richard  I. 

4.  A  charter  dated  at  Reading,  20  July,  4*  Henry  III.  inspecting  and 

confirming  the  above  charter  of  Henry  II. 

5.  A  chiirter  daled  at  Westmin.ster,  18  February,  18  Edward  I.  {Charier 

Roll,  18  Edward  I.  JVo.  89.] 


*  The  correct  date  of  this  charter  is  24  January,  35  Henry  III.  See  Charter  Roll 
36  Henry  III.  m.  12. 


14  EDWARD  IV.— Part  II. 


479 


3Iembranes  W and  \0 — cont. 

6.  Lottei'g  patent  dated  20  May,  14  Edward  III. 

7.  Letters  patent  dated  10  July,  18  Edward  III. 

8.  Letters  patent  dated  4  December,  20  Edward  III. 

9.  Letters  patent  dated  6  February,  24  Edward  TIL 

and  confirming  a  grant  to  them  by  Kobert  sou  of  Odo. 

For  4/.  paid  iu  the  hanaper. 


1475.  Membrane  10— con/. 

Jan.  26.  Exemplification,  at  the  request  of  Robert  Bollyng  in  the  shire  of  York, 
Westminster.  <  gentilmau,'  of  the  tenours  of  the  following  : — 

1.  A  petition  (English)  of  the  said  Robert  in  Parliament  at  Westminster, 

0  October,  12  Edward  IV.  that  whereas  in  the  Parliament  at 
Westminster,  4  November,  1  Edward  IV.  he  was  attainted  of  high 
treason  and  it  was  ordained  that  lie  should  forfeit  all  the  possessions 
which  he  had  on  4  March  then  last  past,  and  afterwards  the  king 
being  informed  that  he  was  never  against  him  in  any  field  or  journey 
except  on  Palm  Sunday  in  the  first  year  of  the  reign  on  compulsion 
of  John,  then  lord  Clyfford,  granted  letters  of  pardon  to  him  on 
17  June,  3  Edward  IV.  whereby  he  was  enabled  to  the  laws  but 
Avas  not  restored  to  his  livelihood,  although  by  the  king's  grace  he 
enjoys  the  same  to  the  great  relief  of  himself  and  his  wife  and  their 
ten  children,  the  king  should  now  ordain  that  he  be  restored  to  his 
said  livelihood  and  the  said  attainder  be  void. 

2.  The  assent  to  the  same  by  the  commons  : — A  cest  bille  Ics  communes 

sont  assentuz. 

3.  The  answer  of  the  king  : — Soit  fait  come  il  est  desire. 

Uiolls  of  Fiirlianicnt,  VI.  20.] 

Jan.  25.  Letters  of  denization  for  Godfrey  Speryng,  '  bierbrucr,'  born  in  the 
Westmiuster.  duchy  of  Holland.  By  p.s.  and  lor  5  marks  paid  iu  the  hanaper. 

Feb.  6.         Appointment,  during  pleasure,  of  William  Crowe,  '  smyth,'  and  John 
Westminster.  Eton,  '  wheler,'  to  take  carpenters  called  '  whelors '  and  *  cartu  rightes ' 
and  other  carpenters  and  workmen  for  the  works  of  waggons  and  wheels 
for  the   king's  ordnance  and  smiths  and  timber  and  irou  and  other 
necessaries  and  carriage  for  the  same. 
Feb.  13.        Presentation  of  George  Dawne  to  the  church  or  chapel  of  Lamana,  iu 
Westminster,  the  diocese  of  Exeter,  void  by  the  resignation  of  Thomas  Ousteby. 

Feb.  10.  Licence  in  fulfilment  of  a  licence  by  letters  patent  dated  11  September, 
Westminster.  13  Edward  IV.  (sfc  p.  410)  and  in  roconipense  of  the  lands  of  the  abbot 
and  convent  of  St.  INIary,  Dale,  in  Larkc  Dale  lately  enclosed  by  the  king 
within  the  new  ))ark  by  his  castle  of  Notlyngham,  which  lands  John 
Stanley,  now  abbot,  and  the  convent  granted  to  the  king  and  his  heirs 
and  assigns  and  Gervase  Clyfton,  esquire,  for  the  alienation  in  mortinaiu 
by  John,  bishop  of  Coventry  and  Lichfield,  AViliiam,  lord  Hastyngcs, 
knight,  Thomas,  lord  Stanley,  knight,  William,  abbot  of  Rufl^ord,  Thomas 
Burgh,  knight,  William  Stanley,  knight,  James  Stanley,  clerk,  William 
Babyngton,  esquire,  Ralph  Saucheverell,  esquire,  Henry  Stathom,  oscjuire, 
John  Staunton,  esquire,  Richard  Malery,  esquire,  and  William  Orell,  clei-k, 
to  the  abbot  and  convent  of  the  advowson  or  ])atronage  of  the  church  of 
Ilcnour,  not  held  in  chief,  extended  at  14  marks  yearly,  as  appears  by  au 
inquisition  taken  before  Richard  Malory,  eschcator  in  the  county  of  Derby, 
in  aid  of  their  sustenance  and  for  the  celebration  of  divine  service  for  the 
good  estate  of  the  king,  and  for  the  appropriation  in  mortmain  by  the 
abbot  and  convent  o£  the  said  church,  provided  that  a  perpetual  vicarage 


480 


CALENDAR  OP  PATENT  ROLLS. 


1475.  Membrane  10 — cont. 

be  sulBeiently  endowed  and  a  competent  sum  from  the  pr  ofits  of  the  church 
be  yearly  distributed  among  the  poor  parishioners  of  the  same  by  the 
diocesan  of  the  place.  By  K. 


1474. 

Dec.  19. 
Westminster. 


Dec.  26. 
Westmiuster. 


1475. 

Jan.  14. 

Liucolu. 

Jan.  23. 

Westminster, 


Membuane  9. 

Whereas  in  satisfaction  of  the  attempts  of  the  king's  subjects  of 
England  against  the  men  of  the  maritime  provinces  of  the  king's  brother 
the  king  of  Castile  and  Leon,  to  the  prejudice  of  the  peace  between  the 
latter  and  the  king,  the  king  is  bound  to  the  men  of  the  province  of  Guipuscoa 
iu  ."^jOOO  crowns  for  losses  sustained  by  them  before  Christmas,  1472,  and 
in  6,000  crowns  for  losses  thus  sustained  by  them  from  thea  until  28  May 
last,  each  crown  being  valued  at  Zs.  Ad.  of  English  money  ;  for  this  and 
for  their  promised  services  against  the  king's  adversary  of  France  the  king 
grants  licence  for  the  mei'chants  and  men  of  the  said  provinces  of  Spain 
or  their  factors  or  attorneys  to  retain  a  moiety  of  all  customs  on  their 
merchandise  in  any  port  of  the  realm  until  they  shall  thus  be  satisfied  of 
the  said  sums,  600  crowns  already  paid  to  John  Martinus  of  Berastegni 
excepted.    {^Fcedera.']  By  K. 

Grant  to  the  king's  uncle  Henry,  earl  of  Esses,  and  the  king's  aunt 
I?al)cl  his  wife  and  the  heirs  of  their  bodies  of  the  lordship  or  manor  of 
Aylsbury,  co.  Buckingham,  and  ten  messuages,  200  acres  of  land,  20  acres 
of  meadow,  40  acres  of  pasture  and  lOO*.  of  rent  from  divers  lands  in 
Aylsbury  and  Beerton,  co.  Buckingham,  the  manors  of  Great  Holaud  and 
Foxherd  with  the  advowson  of  the  church  of  Holand,  co.  Essex,  the  manors 
of  Acton  and  Moreves  in  Waldyngfeld,  co.  Suffolk,  the  manor  of  Chellesfeld 
and  the  advowson  of  the  church  of  Chellesfeld,  the  manor  of  Esthalle  by 
Chellesfeld  and  the  manor  of  Asshe  by  Frcnyngham,  co.  Kent,  late  of  James, 
late  earl  of  Wiltshire,  and  in  the  king's  hands  by  reason  of  his  forfeiture  and 
by  force  of  an  act  in  Parliament  at  Westminster,  4  November,  1  Edward  IV. 
the  lordship  or  manor  of  (^hyngford  with  the  advowson  of  the  church 
of  Chyngford  and  all  lauds,  rents  and  services  in  Chyngford,  co.  Essex, 
late  of  Thomas,  late  lord  Roos,  and  in  the  king's  hands  by  reason  of  his 
forfeiture  and  by  force  of  the  act  aforesaid,  the  manor  of  Woddesdon  with 
the  advowson  of  the  parish  church  of  Woddesdon  and  six  messuages,  100 
acres  of  land,  10  acres  of  meadow,  20  acres  of  pasture,  20  acres  of  wood  and 
40s.  rent  from  divers  lands  in  Woddesdon  and  Westcote,  co.  Buckingham, 
late  of  Thomas  Courtenay,  late  earl  of  Devon,  and  in  the  king's  hands  by 
reason  of  his  forfeiture  and  by  force  of  the  act  aforesaid,  and  the  manors  of 
Colvyles,  Zouches  Maners  and  Sherdlowes  in  Fulburn  and  2  acres  of 
land  in  Fulburn  called  '  le  Chirche  Glebe '  with  the  advowson  of  the 
church  of  St.  Vigor,  Fulburn,  co.  Cambridge,  late  of  John  Ormond  alias 
Botiller,  knight,  and  in  the  king's  hands  by  reason  of  his  forfeiture  and 
by  foi"ce  of  the  act  aforesaid,  to  hold  with  knights'  fees,  advowsons,  courts 
leet,  views  of  frank-pledge,  fairs,  markets,  liberties,  franchises,  warrens, 
profits  and  commodities  by  fealty  only,  and  all  issues  of  the  above  from 
4  March,  1  Edward  IV.    And  this  without  fine  or  fee.  By  K. 

General  pardon  to  Thomas  Musgrave  of  Eoyall,  co.  Northumberland, 
esquire,  alias  '  gentilman.'  By  K. 

Exemplification,  at  the  request  of  the  king's  servant  John  Sidborough 
of  the  tcnour  of  the  enrolment  of  letters  patent  dated  24  July,  1  Edv/ardlV. 
granting  to  him  for  life  the  ofhce  of  keeper  of  the  king's  privy  wardrobe 
within  the  Tower  of  London.    These  letters  have  been  lost  by  accident,  as 
he  has  taken  oath  in  Chancery,  and  will  be  surrendered  if  found. 


14  EDWARD  IV.— Part  II. 


481 


1474. 

Dec.  14. 
Westminster. 


Membrane  Q~~cont. 

Mandate  to  the  escheator  in  the  county  of  Norfolk  for  the  restitution  of 
the  temporalities  of  the  house  or  priory  of  Bernwell  to  William  'I'ebald, 
canon  of  th(!  same,  whose  election  as  prior  W.  bishop  of  Ely  has  confirmed 
and  whose  fealty  the  king  has  ordered  to  be  taken  by  Robert  Wodelarke, 
provost  of  the  king's  college  of  the  University  of  Cambridge,  and  William 
Malster,  licentiate  in  decrees,  clerks. 

The  like  to  the  following  : — 

The  escheator  in  the  counties  of  Cambridge  and  Huntingdon. 

Robert  Drope,  mayor  of  London  and  escheator  in  that  city. 
Writ  de  intendendo  in  pursuance  to  the  tenants. 


Nov.  18. 

Westminster. 


1475. 

.Tan.  25. 

AVestminster. 

Feb.  4. 

Westminster. 


Jan.  31. 
Westminster. 


Feb.  1.5. 

Westminster. 

Feb.  6. 
Westminster. 

Feb.  13. 

Westminster. 


Membrane  8. 

Exemplification,  at  the  request  of  William  Briscowe,  of  the  enrolments 
of  an  indenture  dated  3  July,  13  Edward  IV.  of  arbitration  between  the 
mayor  and  commonalty  of  the  city  of  Coventry  on  the  one  part  and  the  said 
William  on  the  other  part,  in  a  dispute  concerning  certain  lands  and 
common  of  pasture,  and  the  memoranda  of  the  acknowledgments  of  the 
same  in  Chancery  by  the  arbitrators.  {^Close  Roll,  13  Edward  IV.  in. 
4d.] 

General  pardon  to  John  Faryndon  the  younger  of  Exeter,  co.  Devon, 
'gcntilman,'  alias  John  Furyngdon  of  Faryngdon,  of  all  offences  committed 
by  him  before  24  January.  By  p.s. 

General  pardon  to  Thomas  Millewar  late  of  Mekulton,  co.  Gloucester, 
'yoman,'  alias  Thomas  Bassewell  late  of  ISIikkulton,  alias  Thomas 
Millewardd,  alias  Thomas  Miller,  of  all  olfences  committed  by  him  before 
31  January  last.  By  p.s. 

General  pardon  to  Thomas  Begard  late  of  Nortligate  by  Newcrk,  co. 
Nottingham,  'gentilman,'  «/«a«  Thomas  Bekart  late  ofWilluby,  '  gentilman.' 

By  p.s. 

Grant  for  life  to  John  Haukens,  one  of  the  king's  minstrels,  of  10  marks 
yearly,  from  Michaelmas,  13  Edward  IV.  from  the  fee-farm  of  the  manor  of 
la  Berton  by  Gloucester  and  the  king's  Aveirs  in  the  manor  of  Minstreworth 
and  a  moiety  of  the  weir  of  Denne  at  the  liands  of  the  abbot  and  convent  of 
St.  Peter's,  Gloucester.  By  p.s. 

Appointment,  until  15  August,  of  Thomas  Markham,  esquire,  to  take 
salt  and  fresh  water  fish  for  tlu;  expenses  of  the  household  and  carriage  for 
the  same.  By  bill  of  the  treasurer  [of  the  household]. 

Grant  to  William  Lucy,  esquire,  of  160/.  from  the  issues  of  the  counties 
of  Warwick  and  Leicester.  By  K. 

Grant  for  life  to  the  king's  servant  Peter  Wruton,  one  of  the  yeomen  of 
the  crown,  of  the  office  of  bailiff  of  the  king's  town  and  lordship  of 
Fodringhey  and  the  custody  of  the  king's  wanlrobc  within  the  castle  of 
Fodringhey  from  Easter  last,  from  which  time  he  has  had  the  said  oilice 
and  custody,  receiving  the  accustomed  fees  for  the  said  office  and  Id.  daily 
for  the  said  custody  from  the  issues  of  the  said  lordship.  By  p.s. 


Membrane  7. 

Jan.  13.        Protection,  for  five  years,  for  Gerard  Caniziani  of  London,  merchant, 
Lincoln.      and  his  servants,  factors,  deputies,  lands,  goods  and  possessions,  as  the  king 
understands  that  Christopher  Spyno  of  Florence,  merchant,  and  other 
Florentine  merchants  of  the  society  of  the  Medici  on  account  of  his  .services 
y  96186.  II  If 


482 


CALENDAR  OF  PATENT  ROLLS. 


1475. 


Jan.  14. 
L'idcdIh. 


Feb.  6. 
Westminster. 


Jan.  28. 

Westmiaster. 


Fc  h.  5. 
Westminster. 


Feb.  15. 

AVc'Sirainster. 

1474. 

Nov.  15. 
Westminster. 


1475. 

Fob.  23. 
Westminster. 


Membrane  7 — cont. 
to  the  king  and  his  marriage  solemnized  in  this  realm  are  greatly  indignant 
with  him  and  intend  to  annoy  him  without  cause.  By  K. 

Grant,  during  pleasure,  to  the  king's  servant  John  Durant  of  the  office  of 
auditor  of  the  king's  castle  and  lordship  of  Bollessore,  Horston,  Horsley 
and  Chesterfeld,  co  Derby,  and  fee-farms  and  rents  in  the  tovpns  of 
Maunsfeld,  Lymby,  Hedenstowe,  Kyngisclypston,  Bulwell,  Arnold, 
Darleton,  Ragenhulle,  Retford,  Baseford  and  Notingham,  co,  Nottingham, 
and  all  other  rents  arising  from  agistments,  pannage  and  cheminage  of  the 
parks  of  Beskewood  and  Kingesclypston  and  the  forest  of  Shirwood,  co. 
Nottingham,  with  other  fees  pertaining  to  the  said  office,  to  audit  the 
accounts  of  all  receivers,  bailiffs,  I'eeves,  bedels,  woodwards,  collectors, 
farmers,  or  other  ministers  of  the  king  in  the  said  counties,  receiving 
yearly  3/.  6s.  8c/.  at  their  hands  with  all  accustomed  profits.  By  p.s. 

Pardon  to  Thomas  Kyme  of  Frysnay,  late  sheriff  of  Lincoln,  of  all 
offences  committed  by  him  and  all  fines,  issues,  amercements,  debts,  accounts 
and  arrears  due  from  him  to  the  king  by  reason  of  his  office.  By  K. 

Pardon  to  Edward  Tyrell  late  of  VVesthorpe,  co.  Suffolk,  esquire,  alias 
late  of  Wyngfeld,  co.  Sutfolk,  for  the  murder  of  John  Serene,  knight. 

By  p.s. 

Pardon  to  John  Vyllers  of  Fulnetby,  esquire,  late  sheriflp  of  Lincoln,  of 
all  offences  committed  by  him  and  ail  issues,  fines,  amercements,  debts, 
accounts  and  arrears  due  from  him  to  the  king  by  reason  of  his  office. 

ByK. 

Grant  for  life  to  Robert  Grene,  king's  minstrel,  of  10  marks  yearly  from 
Michaelmas,  13  Edward  IV.  from  which  date  he  has  been  one  of  the  king's 
minstrels  though  he  has  as  yet  had  no  fees,  from  the  issues  of  the  subsidy 
and  ulnage  of  cloth  and  a  moiety  of  the  forfeiture  of  the  same  in  the  counties 
of  Oxford  and  Berks.  By  p.s. 

Pardon  to  Richard  Gille  of  Wokyngdon  Bishop's,  co.  Essex,  '  husbond- 
man,'  of  his  outlawry  in  the  county  of  Middlesex  for  not  appearing  before 
the  justices  of  the  Bench  to  satisfy  WiUiam  Parchemener,  citizen  and 
draper  of  London,  of  100s.  Avhich  the  latter  recovered  against  him  before 
John  Prysot  and  his  fellows,  justices  of  tlie  Bench  of  the  late  king,  at 
Westminster  and  W^s.  damages,  he  having  surrendered  to  the  Flete  prison 
and  satisfied  the  said  William,  as  Tliomas  Bryan,  chief  justice  of  the  Bench, 
has  certified. 

Pardon  to  John,  abbot  of  the  monastery  of  St.  Peter,  Westminster, 
ordinary  of  that  place,  for  the  escapes  of  Alan  Greneside,  Thomas  Wykes 
and  Richard  Hoddilston,  convicted  prisoners  committed  to  his  custody,  from 
his  prison  before  23  January  last.  By  p.s. 

General  pardon  to  Ralph  Castell,  late  of  Thacham,  co.  Berks,  '  wever,' 
alias  '  yoman,'  of  all  offences  committed  by  him  before  "IZ  December  last. 

By  p.s. 

Presentation  of  William  Crosse,  parson  of  the  parish  church  of  St.  Michael, 
Norhampton,  to  the  parish  church  of  Harwey  in  the  marches  of  Calais,  in 
the  diocese  of  Terouanue,  on  an  exchange  of  benefices  with  William 
Midnyght.  The  letters  are  directed  to  Th.  cardinal  archbishop  of 
Canterbury. 

INIandate  to  all  bailiffs  and  otliers  to  permit  Henry  Dolas,  born  at 
Arbrodyt  in  Scotland,  dwelling  :it  Kenelvvorth,  co.  V/arwick,  who  has 
taken  an  oath  of  fealty,  to  inhabit  the  realm  peaceably  and  enjoy  his  goods. 

ByK. 


14  EDWARD  IV,— Part  IL 


483 


1475.  Membrane  7 — cont. 

Feb.  27.        Mandate  to  all  bailiffs  and  others  to  permit  'William  Oughtre,  'taillom-,' 
Westminster,  alias  William  Parker,  born  at  Dundye  in  Scotland,  dwelling  within  the 
realm  of  England,  who  has  taken  an  oath  of  fealty,  to  inhabit  the  realm 
peaceably  and  enjoy  his  goods.  By  K. 


Membrane  6. 

Feb.  20.  Grant  to  the  king's  brother  Richard,  duke  of  Gloucester,  and  the  heirs 
Westminster,  male  of  his  body  of  the  castles,  honours,  lordships  and  manors  of  Midelham 
and  Shirefhoton  with  their  members,  the  lordships  and  manors  of  Estlyllyng, 
Elvyngton,  Skirpenbek,  Yaresthorp,  Raskell,  Houkc,  Scoreby,  Wilberfosse, 
Stanfordbrig,  Hundburton,  Knapton,  Rise  in  Holdernesse,  Sutton  on 
Derwent,  Shirborn  in  Herfordlith,  Appilton  in  Ridale,  Sutton  in  Galtresse 
and  Thorlesthorpe,  Carleton  with  Coverdale  in  Coverdale,  Westwitton, 
Wodhall,  Ketilwelle  in  Craven,  Newebiggyng,  Thoralby  with  Bisshoppes- 
dale,  Burton,  Biiynbrig  with  the  vale  of  Wynsladale,  Braithwait,  Aykes- 
carth,  Crakehall,  Busby,  Faceby,  Carleton  in  Clevelond,  Little  Crakehali, 
Bowes,  New  Forest,  Arkelgarthdale,  Hopes  alias  Esthope,  Westhope, 
Multon,  Forset,  Gillyng,  Salkeld,  Soureby,  Langwathby,  Scotby  and 
Carlaton,  the  barony  of  Worton,  free  chace  in  Wynsladale,  10/.  of  rent  from 
the  castle  and  manor  of  Wilton,  tolls  from  Bowes,  Leamyng,  Difford  and 
Smeton,  the  wapentakes  or  bailiwicks  of  Laiigbergh,  Hang,  Ilalikeld  and 
Gillyng,  the  advowsons  of  the  churches  cd'  Moremonkton,  Walkyngton  and 
the  chantry  in  the  church  of  Appilton,  a  mill  in  Richcmond,  the  issues  of 
a  farm  called  '  le  Litferme,'  a  moiety  of  the  soil  and  wood  of  Snape  called 
le  AVestwode,  all  homages  of  rent  called  '  Castellwarde,'  the  knights'  fees, 
rents  and  services  of  free  tenants  belonging  to  the  castle,  lordship  or  honour  of 
Richcmond  and  all  other  lands,  rents,  reversions,  services  and  hereditaments 
■  late  of  Richard  Neviln,  late  carl  of  Warwick,  in  Shireflioton,  Estlillyng, 
Elvyngton,  Skirpenbek,  Yaresthorp,  Raskell,  Houke,  Scoreby,  Wilber- 
fosse, Stanfordbrig,  Hundburton,  Knapton,  Rise  in  Holdernesse,  Sutton 
late  of  {sic)  Derwent,  Shirbui'n  in  Herfordlith,  Appilton  in  Ridale,  Sutton 
in  Galtresse,  Moremonkton,  Walkyngton,  Elvyngton,  Catton,  Towthorpe, 
Brian  Askam,  Wedirby,  Tetieryngton,  Westlillyng,  Riton,  Bugthorpe, 
Towthorpe  on  the  Wold,  Wynsladalc,  Worton,  Carleton,  Westwitton, 
Wodhall,  Ketilwell  in  Craven,  Newebiggyng,  Thoralby,  Bisshoppesdale, 
Burton,  ]kynbrig,  Braithwayt,  Aykescarth,  Crakehall,  Busby,  Fuceby, 
Carleton  in  Cleveland,  Little  Crakeliall,  Bowys,  New  Forest,  Arkelgarth- 
dale, Hopes,  IMulton,  Forset,  CJilljng,  Wilton,  Walden,  Kerparby, 
Lirtington,  Bernyngham,  Stanhowkeld,  Bolron,  Fegherby,  Southcowton, 
Coldconyngston,  Hilderwell,  Rande,  Newton,  Ilarllcsey,  Salkild,  Penreth, 
Soureby,  Langwathby,  Scotby  and  Carlaton  with  knights'  fees,  advowsons, 
chaces,  warrens,  franchises,  liberties,  privileges,  fairs,  markets,  hundreds 
and  other  emoluments  to  hold  by  knight  service  and  the  accustomed  rents 
and  services.  By  K. 

Feb.  26.  General  pardon  to  John  Nesfeld  late  of  London,  esquire,  alias 
Westminster.  '  gentilmun.'  By  K. 

Feb.  G.  Exemplification,  at  the  request  of  John  Au^leley,  lord  Audelcy,  of  the 
Westminster,  tenours  of  the  following  : 

1,  A  petition  (English)  of  the  said  John  in  the  Parliament  held  at 
Westminster,  6  October,  12  Edward  IV.  and  continued  by  divers 
prorogations  to  23  January  last  that  whereas  Humphrey  Audelcy, 
knight,  brother  to  the  said  suppliant,  committed  divers  offences 
against  the  king  and  accordingly  all  his  manors,  lands  and  tenements 
would  have  been  forfeited  and  his  heirs  disabled  without  the  king's 

H  u  2 


484 


CALENDAR  OF  PATENT  ROLLS. 


1475.  Membrane  6 — cont. 

especial  grace,  and  the  king  had  intended  to  have  rewarded  certain 
persons  with  the  same  manoi's,  lands  and  tenements,  to  which 
persons  the  said  beseecher  has  paid  600  marks  and  has  nothing 
of  the  said  Humphrey  whereby  he  may  be  repaid,  and  the  said 
Humphrey  has  issue  John  and  Jane,  the  king  should  grant  to  the 
said  .John  Audeley,  knight,  the  ward,  keeping  and  marriage  of  the 
said  John  the  son  during  his  nonage  with  the  keeping  of  the  manors 
of  Karleton,  Midilton,  Clopton,  Cokefeld,  Fennehalle  and  Whelle- 
weteliam,  co.  Suffolk,  late  of  the  'said  Humphrey,  and  if  the  said 
John  die  within  the  age  of  21  years,  the  said  Jane  then  being 
within  the  age  of  14  years,  her  keeping  and  marriage  with  the 
premises  during  her  nonage,  and  that  if  during  their  nonages  he 
shall  not  receive  of  the  premises  the  said  sum  above  all  charges 
that  he  shall  bear  he  shall  possess  the  said  manors,  lands  and 
tenements  until  he  shall  have  received  the  said  sum  out  of  their 
issues. 

2.  The  assent  of  the  commons : — A  cest  bille  lez  commimez  sont 

assentuz. 

3.  The  answer  of  the  king  : — Soit  fait  cum  ill  est  desire. 

[Bolls  of  Parliament,  VI.  127.] 

Feb.  28.        General  pardon  to  John  Walter  late  of  Westminster,  co.  Middlesex,  alias 
Westminster,  late  of  More,  co.  Hertford,  clerk,  of  all  offences  committed  by  him  before 
26  February.  By  p.s. 

March  2.        Appointment,  during  pleasure,  of  Thomas  Stokton  as  controller  of  the 
Westminster,  petty  custom  in  the  port  of  London  and  ports  and  places  adjacent,  receiving 
the  accustomed  fees,  provided  that  he  execute  the  office  in  person,  with  the 
custody  of  one  part  of  the  coket  seal.  By  bill  of  the  treasurer. 


Feb.  27. 
WestmiEster. 


Feb.  24. 

WcstiEiuster. 


March  1, 
Westminster. 


Membrane  5. 

Grant  in  frank  almoin  to  the  warden  or  dean  and  chapter  of  the  college 
of  St.  Mary,  St.  George  the  Martyr  and  St.  Edward  the  Confessor  ^within  the 
castle  of  Wyndesore,  co.  Berks,  of  the  house,  hospital  or  free  chapel  of  St. 
Anthony,  London,  and  the  custody  and  auvowson  of  the  same  with  all  liberties, 
franchises,  jjrivileges,  immunities,  lands,  rents,  services,  froits,  oblations, 
profits,  emoluments,  advowsons,  knights'  fees,  rights  and  appurtenances  at 
its  next  voidance;  and  this  without  fine  or  fee.  [3Io7iasticon,  vol.  VI.  p. 
1359.]  By  K. 

Grant  for  life  to  James  Hyet,  esquire,  and  Roger  Hyet  his  son  of  the 
office  of  constable  of  the  king's  castle  of  St.  Briavels  in  the  forest  of  Dene, 
CO.  Gloucester,  receiving  the  accustomed  fees  at  the  hands  of  the  receivers 
or  other  occupiers  of  the  king's  lordship  of  Newcloud  in  the  said  forest ; 
in  lieu  of  a  grant  of  the  office  to  the  said  James  by  letters  patent  dated 
10  March,  1  Edward  IV.  surrendered.  By  p.s. 

Licence  for  John  Howard,  knight,  and  John  Broughton  the  younger, 
esquire,  or  their  heirs,  executors  and  assigns  to  found  a  perpetual  chantry 
of  a  warden  and  society  of  chaplains  to  celebrate  divine  service  daily  in  the 
town  of  Denardcston,  co.  Suffolk,  for  the  good  estate  of  the  king  and  his 
consort  Elizabeth,  queen  of  Englaml,  and  his  firstborn  son  Edward,  prince 
of  Wales,  duke  of  Cornwall  and  carl  of  Chester,  and  the  said  John 
Howard  and  John  Broughton  and  Anne  his  consort  and  their  heirs  and  for 
their  souls  after  death  and  the  souls  of  John  Denston  and  Katharine  his  wife, 
William  Denston  and  Margaret  his  wife,  Robert  Clerk,  clerk,  John  Marshall 
and  Aiesiahis  wife  and  the  ancestors  of  the  said  John  Denston  and  do  other 


14  EDWARD  IV.— Part  II. 


485 


1475. 


Nov.  28. 
Weitminster. 


14.75. 

March  2. 
Westminster. 


Membrane  5 — cont. 

works  of  piety  according  to  their  ordinance,  to  be  called  '  Denstons  Chaun- 
tery,'  and  to  grant  in  mortmain  to  the  said  warden  and  society  lands, 
tenements,  rents  and  other  possessions,  not  held  in  chief,  to  the  value  of 
40/.  yearly.  By  K. 

Grant  to  the  king's  kinsman  Anthony  Gray,  knight,  lord  of  Gray  Ruthin, 
and  his  heirs  and  assigns  of  the  manors  of  Wrastlyngworth,  Dnnton  and 
Goyes,  two  messuages,  10  acres  of  land  and  an  acre  of  meadow  in  Eyworth, 
a  messuage  and  10  acres  of  land  in  Milnho,  a  messuage  and  a  moiety  of  an 
acre  of  land  called  '  Scryvcmers  '  in  Dunton  and  a  messuage,  20  acres  of  land 
called  '  Taillardes,'  a  messuage,  80  acres  of  land  and  two  acres  of  meadow 
called  '  Bexwelles  '  and  20  acres  of  land  called  '  Bakers  '  in  AVrastlyngworth, 
CO.  Bedford,  and  the  manors  of  Puttokeshardwik  and  Little  Paxton  and  40 
acres  of  land  in  le  Welde  in  the  parish  of  Eynesbury,  co.  Huntingdon,  with 
knights'  fees,  advowsons,  wards,  marriages,  reliefs,  escheats,  parks,  woods, 
meadows,  feedings,  pastures,  lislieries,  stews,  warrens,  courts  leet,  views  of 
frank-pledge,  liberties,  franchises,  profits  and  other  commodities  late  of  John 
Manyngham  late  of  Oldeforde,  co.  Middlesex,  knight,  and  in  the  king's 
hands  because  he  was  indicted  of  divers  offences  against  the  crown  and 
afterwards  outlawed  at  the  king's  suit  at  Hertford  on  8  April,  13  Edward  IV. 
to  hold  from  the  time  of  the  outlawry  by  the  services  of  as  many 
knights'  fees  'and  as  many  other  rents  and  services  as  they  were 
held  by  before  4  March,  1  Edward  IV.  and  this  without  fine  or  fee. 

By  p.s. 

Grant  for  life  to  Alice  Hulcot,  for  her  good  service  to  the  king  and  Ins 
consort  Elizabeth,  queen  of  England,  of  an  annuity  of  10/.  from  Michaelmas 
last  from  the  fee-farm  of  the  town  of  Kyngcsthorpe,  co.  Northanijiton. 

J$y  K. 


Membrane  4. 


Feb.  8. 
Westminster. 


Feb.  18. 
Westminster. 


Feb.  23. 
Westininster. 


Feb.  12. 
Westminster. 


Grant  for  life  to  the  king's  servant  John  Bigge,  esquire,  of  the  office  of 
the  custody  of  the  king's  castle  of  the  town  of  Sandwich  with  tlie  meadows 
called  '  Castclniedeus '  adjacent  and  the  otHce  of  verger  of  the 

town,  to  hold  from  14  December,  II  Edward  IV.  from  which  time  he  has 
had  the  same,  with  wages  of  \d.  daily  from  the  issues  of  the  said  meadows  ; 
in  lieu  of  a  like  grant  to  Thomas  Bodyn  l»y  letters  jiatcnt  dated  20  July, 
1  Edward  IV.  surrendered,  and  a  grant  to  the  said  .John  of  the  office  of 
verger  {virgeliaiulns)  in  the  said  town  with  the  custody  of  the  castle  there 
and  the  meadows  belonging  to  it  and  all  fees  by  letters  patent  dated  the 
said  14  December,  surrendered.  By  K. 

Appointment  of  tlie  king's  brother  Richard,  duke  of  Gloucester,  as  sheriff 
of  Cumberland  and  grant  to  him  of  the  office  of  slieriil'  for  life,  rendering 
to  the  king  100/.  yearly  at  the  Exchccpier  Avithout  any  other  account. 

By  p.s. 

Exemption  for  life  of  Richard  Sapcotes,  knight,  from  being  put  on  assizes, 
juries  or  recognizances  and  from  being  made  trier  of  the  same,  justice, 
sheriff,  coroner,  mayor,  bailifl',  constable,  collector,  controller,  r.ssessor  or 
taxer  of  tenth,  fifteenth,  tax  or  subsidy,  trier,  leader  or  provider  of  men  at 
arms  or  any  other  officer  or  minister  cl  the  king  against  his  will. 

By  p.s. 

Licencs  for  Thomas,  bishop  of  Lincoln,  the  chancellor,  John  Bourgehier, 
parson  of  the  church  of  St.  Andrew,  Bykelyswade,  co.  Bedford,  John 
Rudynge,  clerk^  archdeacon  of  Northampton,  William  Saycok,  clerk.  Waiter 


486 


CALENDAR  OF  PATENT  ROLLS. 


1475.  Membrane  4 — cont. 

Cokerell,  chaplain,  Richard  Endreby,  esquire,  Robert  Bothe,  esquire,  John 
Nanby,  Thomas  Eston  and  Richard  Grodfrey  to  found  a  fraternity  or  gild 
of  four  guardians,  ecclesiastics  or  laymen,  and  other  lieges  of  the  king  of 
either  sex  within  the  said  church  according  to  their  ordinance,  to  be  ealled 
the  fraternity  or  gild  of  Holy  Trinity  in  the  said  church.  The  said  guardians 
and  the  brethren  and  sisters  of  the  gild  shall  form  one  body  and  commonalty 
incori^orate,  with  power  to  acquire  lands,  rents,  services,  rights  and 
possessions  and  to  plead  and  be  impleaded,  and  shall  have  a  common  seal 
and  shall  when  they  please  elect  guardians  for  the  governance  of  the  gild 
and  admit  other  persons  to  the  gild  and  remove  the  guardians  and  make 
ordinances  for  the  government  of  the  gild.  And  grant  to  them  of  licence 
to  acquire  in  mortmain,  after  inquisition,  lands,  tenements,  rents,  annuities 
and  possessions,  not  held  in  chief,  to  the  value  of  10^.  yearly  for  the 
sustenance  of  a  chaplain  to  celebrate  divine  service  daily  in  the  said  church 
~for  the  good  estate  of  the  king  and  his  consort  Elizabeth,  queen  of  England, 
the  said  bishop  and  the  other  brethren  and  sisters  of  the  gild  and  for  their 
souls  after  death  and  the  soul  of  Richard,  late  duke  of  fork,  the  king's 
father,  and  the  support  of  other  works. 

By  p.s.  and  for  31/.  lis.  paid  in  the  hanaper. 

March  1.  General  pardon  to  William  Kaylewey  late  of  Callegh,  co.  Devon,  esquire, 
Westminster,  alias  of  Challegh,  CO.  Devon,  '  gentilman.'  By  p.s. 

March  3.        General  pardon  to  William  Bright  late  of  Edysleght,  co.  Devon,  '  yoman,' 
Westmiuster.  alias  William  Mayer  late  of  Edyslegh,  co.  Devon,  of  all  offences  committed 
by  him  before  1  March.  By  p.s. 


IIembrane  3. 

Feb.  26.        Exemplification,  at  the  request  of  the  king's  brother  Richard,  duke  of 
Westminster.  Gloucester,  of  the  tenour  of  an  act  (English)  in  the  Parliament  held  at 
Westminster,   6  October,    12  Edward   IF.   and   continued   by  divers 
prorogations  to  23  January,  14  Edward  IV.  ordaining  on  23  February 
that,  whereas  considering  the  treasons  done  by  John  Nevile,  late  marquis 
Montague,  the  king  intended  by  authority  of  this  present  Parliament  to 
have  attainted  and  disabled  him  and  his  heirs  but  at  the  request  of  the  said 
duke  and  other  lords  will  proceed  no  further  in  this,  nevertheless  the  said 
duke  shall  have  and  enjoy  to  himself  and  the  heirs  of  his  body,  so  long  as 
there  be  any  male  heir  of  the  body  of  the  said  marquis,  the  honours,  castles, 
lordships  and  manors  of  Midelham  and  Shirefhoton  with  their  members, 
the  lordships  and  manors  of  Estlillyng,  Elvyngton,  Skirpenbek,  Yaresthorpe, 
Raskell,  Houke,  Scoreby,  Wiiberfosse,  Stanfordbrig,  Hundburton,  Knapton, 
Rise  in  Holdernesse,  Sutton  on  Derwent,  Shirborn  in  Herford  Lithe, 
Appilton  in  Ridale,  Sutton  in  Galtresse  and  Thorlesthorpe,  Carleton  with 
Coverdale  in  Coverdale,  Westwitton,  Wodhall,  Ketilwell  in  Craven,  Newbig- 
gyng,  Thoralby  with  Bisshoppesdale,  Burton,  Baynbrig  with  the  vale  of 
Wynsladale,  Braithwayte,  Aykescarth,  Crakehall,  Busby,  Faceby,  Carleton 
in  Clevelond,  Little  Crakehall,  Bowes,  Newforest,  Arkelgarthdale,  Hopes 
otherwise  called  Esthope,  Westhope,  Multon,  Forset,  Gillyng,  Salkeld, 
Soureby,  Langwathby,  Scotby  and  Carlaton,  the  barony  of  Worton,  free 
chace  in  Wynsladale,  ten  pounds  of  rent  out  of  the  castle  and  manor  of 
Wilton,  the  toll  of  Bowes,  Leamyng,  Difford  and  Snieton,  the  wapentakes 
of  Langbergh,  Hang,  Halikeld  and  Gillyng,  the  advowsous  of  the  churches 
of  Moremonkton,  Walkyngtou  and  Elvyngton  and  a  chantry  in  the  church 
of  Appilton,  a  mill  in  Richmond  and  the  issues  of  a  farm  called  '  Litferrae,' 
the  half  of  the  soil  and  wood  of  Snape  called  '  the  Westwode,'  all  homages 
rents  called  '  castell  ward,'  and  knights'  fees,  rents  and  service  of  tenants 
belonging  to  the  castle,  honour  and  lordship  of  Richmond,  all  of  which 


14  EDWARD  IV.— Part  II. 


487 


1475. 


Feb.  13. 
Westminster. 


Feb.  27. 

Westminster. 


1474. 

July  14. 


Membrane  3 — cont. 

were  late  of  Richard  Nevile,  late  carl  of  Warwick,  and  all  other  lands, 
tenements,  rents,  reversions,  services  and  hereditaments  late  of  the  said 
earl  in  Shirefhoton,  Midelliam,  Estlillyng,  Elvyngton,  Skirpenbek,  Mares- 
thorpe,  liaskell,  Houke,  Scoreby,  Wilberfo.sse,  Stanfordbrig,  Hiindbin  toii, 
Kiiapton,  Rise  in  Holderiiesse,  Sutton  on  Derweut,  Shirburn  in  Herfbrdlith, 
Appilton  in  Ridale,  Sutton  in  Galtresse,  Aloremonkton,  Walkyngton, 
Elvyngton,  Catton,  Thothorpe,  Brian  Askam,  Wedirbe,  Teueryngton, 
Westlyllyiig,  Riton,  Bugthorpe,  Towthorpe  uppon  the  Wolde,  AVynsladalo, 
Wortou,  Carleton,  Westwitton,  Wodliall,  Ketilwell  in  Craven,  Newbiggyng, 
Thoralby,  Bisshoppesdale,  Burton,  Baynbrig,  Braithwayt,  Aykescarth, 
Crakehall,  Busby,  Faceby,  Carleton  in  Clevelond,  Little  Crakehall,  Bovvys, 
Newe  Forest,  Arkelgarthdale,  Hopes,  Multon,  Forset,  Gillyng,  Wilton, 
Walden,  Kerpcrby,  Lirtyngton,  Barnyngham,  Stanhowkeld,  Bolron, 
Fegherby,  Southcowton,  Coldconyngstone,  Hildcrwell,  Rande,  Newton, 
Herlesey,  Salkild,  Penreth,  Soureby,  Langwathby,  Scotby  and  Carlaton 
with  knights'  fees,  advowsons,  chaces,  warrens,  franchises,  liberties, 
privileges,  fiairs,  markets  and  all  other  profits,  saving  their  right,  title  autl 
interest  to  all  the  king's  lieges  and  tlieir  heirs  not  attainted  other  than  the 
said  heirs  male  of  the  said  marquis  and  Isabel  late  his  wife,  the  king  and 
his  heirs,  the  lords  of  whom  any  of  the  premises  were  held  for  any  ward 
by  reason  of  the  nonage  of  the  said  iieirs  male,  the  heirs  of  Richard,  late 
carl  of  Salisbury,  and  the  feoffees  of  the  latter  or  tlie  earl  of  Warwick, 
with  the  provision  that  if  the  male  issue  of  the  said  marquis  fail  the  said 
duke  shall  enjoy  the  premises  for  term  of  his  life. 

[Rolls  of  Parliament,  VI.  124.] 

Licence,  for  20s.  paid  in  the  hanaper,  for  .John  Aleyn  the  elder, 
*  gentilnian,'  to  grant  the  manor  of  Erlhiim,  held  in  chief,  to  Thomas 
Bettis,  clerk,  and  John  Bagby,  clerk,  and  for  these  to  rc-grant  the  same 
to  the  said  John  and  Joan  his  wife,  Ilcnry  Spelman,  '  gentilnian,' 
Robert  Brampton  the  elder,  'gentilnian,'  Henry  Marlond,  'gentilman.' 
Thomas  Brampton,  '  sentilman,'  John  Brampton,  '  gentilman,'  John 
Spelman,  'gentilman,'  William  Spelman,  'gentilman,'  Henry  Cantelowe  of 
London,  'mercer,'  Robert  Norwichc,  'gentilman,'  and  Thomas  Mason, 
'  yoman,'  to  liold  to  themselves  and  their  heirs  by  the  accustomecl 
services. 

Pardon  to  Thomas,  abbot  of  the  monastery  of  St.  Peter,  Westminster, 
ordinary  of  that  place,  of  all  escapes  of  Richard  Jolinson  late  of  'I'ourehill, 
CO.  Middlesex,  '  shipman,'  late  of  the  parts  of  Flanders,  'marioner,' 

from  his  prison  before  25  Jidy  last.  By  p.s. 


General  pardon  to  William  Benlmry  late  of  Tacley,  co.  Essex,  'gentil- 
Westminster.  man,'  of  all  offences  committed  by  him  before  21  February  last.        By  K. 


1475.  Membrane  2. 

Feb.  26.  Exemplification,  at  the  request  of  the  king's  brotlicr  George,  dnkc  of 
Westminster.  Clarence,  of  the  tenour  of  an  act  (English)  iu  the  Parliament  held  at 
Westminster,  G  October,  12  Edward  IV.  and  continued  by  divers  proro- 
gations to  23  January,  14  Edward  IV.  ordaining  on  24  February  that, 
whereas  considering  tlie  treasons  done  by  John  Nevile,  late  manjiiis 
Mountagewe,  the  king  intended  by  autlioi  ity  of  this  present  Parliament  to 
have  attainted  and  disabled  him  and  liis  heirs  but  at  the  request  of  the  said 
duke  and  othei-  lords  will  proceed  no  further  in  this,  nevertheless  the  said 
duke  shall  have  and  enjoy  to  himself  and  the  Iieirs  of  his  body,  so  long  a.s 
there  be  any  male  heir  of  the  body  of  tho  said  marquis,  the  lordsiiip  and 
manor  of  Claver)  ng,  co.  Essex,  with  its  members  and  the  mansion  or  nies^. 


488 


CALENDAE  OF  PATENT  ROLLS. 


]  475.  Membrane  2 — cont. 

called  '  the  Herber '  and  two  meses  thereto  annexed  in  the  city  of  London, 
late  of  Richard  Nevile,  late  earl  of  Warwick,  saving  their  right,  title  and 
interest  to  all  the  king's  lieges  and  their  heirs  not  attainted  other  than  the 
said  heirs  male  of  the  said  marquis  and  Isabel  his  wife,  the  king  and  his 
heirs,  the  lords  of  whom  any  of  the  premises  were  held  for  any  ward  by 
reason  of  the  nonage  of  the  said  heirs  male,  the  heirs  of  Richard,  late  earl 
of  Salisbiu-y,  and  the  feoffees  of  the  latter  or  the  earl  of  Warwick,  with  the 
provision  that  if  the  male  issue  of  the  said  marquis  fail  the  said  duke  shall 
enjoy  the  premises  for  term  of  his  life.      [Rolls  of  Parliament,  VI.  125,] 

March  2.  Grant  for  life  to  William  Hastynges,  knight,  lord  Hastynges,  of  the 
Westminster,  offices  of  constable  of  the  king's  castle  of  Notyngham,  porter  or  keeper  of 
tiie  gate  of  the  same  castle,  steward  and  keeper  of  the  king's  forest 
of  Shirwode  and  keeper  of  the  parks  of  Beskewode  and  Clypston  and 
the  king's  woods  of  Billowe,  Birkeland,  Rumwode,  Ouselond  and 
Fulwode,  CO.  Nottingham,  receiving  40  marks  yearly  for  the  said  offices 
from  the  king's  manor  or  lordship  of  Bollesover,  co.  Derby,  and 
a  yearly  rent  of  9/.  for  the  wages  of  nine  foresters  appointed  by  him 
to  keep  the  said  forest,  viz.  20*.  yearly  for  each  of  them,  from  the 
king's  meadows  by  the  said  castle  called  '  Kyngesmedowes '  and  the  profits 
of  pannage  and  herbage  of  the  said  parks  and  all  rents  or  other  profits 
from  the  said  forest.    And  this  without  fine  or  fee.  By  K. 

Feb.  15.  Licence  for  Thomas  Adam  son  and  heir  of  William  Adam,  tenant 
Westminster,  in  chief,  and  kinsman  and  heir  of  Eleanor,  deceased,  tenant  in  chief, 
late  tiie  wife  of  John  Adam  of  Romney  and  one  of  the  daughters  and  heirs 
of  William  Norwode,  viz.  son  of  William  Adam  her  son,  to  enter  freely  into 
all  lordships,  manors,  lands  and  other  possessions  in  England  of  which  the 
said  William  or  Eleanor  were  seised  and  which  should  descend  to  him,  saving 
to  the  king  homage  and  fealty.  By  p.s. 

1474. 

July  27.        Grant  for  life  to  the  king's  servant  William  Norrfiys,  one  of  the  knights 
Westminster,  of  the  body,  of  the  office  of  keeper  of  the  manor  and  park  of  the  king  called 
'  Foly  John  '  with  fees  of  4</.  daily  and  all  other  accustomed  profits  from  the 
issues  of  the  said  manor  at  the  hands  of  the  constable  of  the  king's  castle 
of  Wyndesore  or  his  lieutenant.  By  p.s. 

May  23.        Grant  for  life  to  the  king's  ser^^ant  William  Witney,  esquire,  of  all  lands 
Westminster,   within  the  town  of  Alton,  co.  Southampton,  which  the  king  granted  to 
William  Stephins  and  are  now  in  his  hands  by  the  decease  of  the  latter  and 
by  an  act  of  resumption  in  the  present  Parliament,  to  hold  from  the  feast  of 
St.  Tiiomas  the  Apostle  last  by  the  accustomed  services.  By  p.s. 

1475. 

Jan.  24.        Licence  for  the  king's  kinsman  .John,  duke  of  Norfolk,  to  enter  freely 
Westminster,  into  all  castles,  manors,  lordships,  lands  and  other  possessions  in  England, 
Wales  and  the  marches  of  Wales  which  Eleanor,  late  duchess  of  Norfolk, 
held  for  life  in  dower,  and  which  should  descend  to  him  on  her  death, 
with  all  issues  from  her  death,  saving  to  the  king  homage  and  fealty. 

By  p.s. 

Membrane  I. 

Feb.  1.  Grant  for  life  to  Laurence  Giles  alias  Ziles,  born  in  the  town  of  Brussels 
Westminster,  in  Brabant,  of  letters  of  denization. 

By  p.s.  and  for  40^.  paid  in  the  hanaper. 
Feb.  21.        Commission  to  Ralph  Makerell,  doctor  of  either  law,  Michael  Carvanell, 
Westminster,  bachelor  in  either  law,  Thomas  Coke,  knight,  and  Henry  Daners,  '  mercer,' 
to  hear  and  determine  an  appeal  by  Thomas   Sharpe,  merchant  of  the 


U  EDWARD  IV.— Pakt  II. 


489 


1475. 


Jau.  1. 

Westminster. 


Jan.  25. 

Westminster. 


June  29. 
Westminster. 


1474. 

Aug.  15. 

Westminster. 


Membrane  1 — cont. 

staple  of  Calais,  against  a  judgement  pronounced  by  Master  William 
Goodyer,  doctor  of  laws,  lieutenant  or  commissary  of  the  king's  brother, 
Richard,  duke  of  Gloucester,  admiral  of  England,  Ireland  and  Aquitaine,  in  the 
principal  court  of  Admiralty  of  England ;  the  said  Thomas  declaring  that 
whereas  he  was  sole  owner  of  a  ship  or  barge  called  le  Trinite  of  Caleys,  alias 
of  London,  and  appointed  a  master  and  mariners  for  the  governance  of  the 
game,  and  these  at  his  command  sailed  the  said  ship  laden  with  merchandise 
belonging  to  him  and  other  merchants  from  the  port  of  Calais  to  the  port 
of  London,  nevertheless  the  said  William  at  the  instance  of  one  John 
Fyssber,  gentleman,  ordered  the  said  ship  to  be  seized,  the  said  Thomas 
not  being  called  but  being  absent  beyond  the  seas,  and  declared  it  pledged 
to  the  said  John  for  the  sum  of  200/.  aud  ordered  the  latter  to  be  put  iu 
possession  thereof. 

Grant  to  the  king's  servant  John  Elryngton,  es(iuire,  treasurer  of  the 
king's  household,  for  a  certain  sum  of  money  paid  by  him  to  the  king,  of 
tlie  custody  of  all  castles,  manors,  lordships,  lands,  rents,  services,  reversions 
and  possessions  with  knight's  fees  and  advowsons  late  of  Walter  Blount, 
knight,  late  lord  Mountjoye,  tenant  in  chief,  during  the  minority  of  Edward 
Blount,  lord  Mountjoye,  his  kinsman  aud  heir,  viz.  son  of  his  son  William, 
and  the  custody  and  marriage  of  the  said  Edward  without  disparagement, 
and  so  from  heir  to  heir.  By  p.s. 

Grant  during  tlie  minority  of  George,  earl  of  Shrewsbury,  to  John 
Bowde,  servant  of  the  late  earl  of  Shrewsbury,  who  had  of  the  grant  of  the 
said  late  earl  the  office  of  the  parkership  (parcarie)  of  the  park  of 
Cheswardyne,  co.  Salop,  which  office  the  king  has  now  otherwise  disposed 
of,  of  the  office  of  the  palisership  {pataric)  of  the  same  park  with  wages 
of  Id.  daily  at  the  hands  of  the  receiver  or  bailiif  of  the  lordship  of 
Cheswardyne.  By  p.s.  [4052.] 

Appointment,  during  pleasure,  of  Richard  Mayle  as  ganger  in  the  port 
of  Bristol  and  ports  and  places  adjacent,  receiving  the  accustomed  fees. 

By  biU  of  the  treasurer. 

Vacated  because  in  the  fifteenth  year. 

Grant  for  life  to  the  king's  servitor  John  James,  one  of  the  messengers 
of  the  king's  chamber,  of  100  acres  of  land  and  pasture,  4  acres  of  meadow, 
4  acres  of  wood  and  12s.  of  rent  in  Thaxsted  of  which  JohO'  Yerdley  of 
Thaxsted,  outlawed  for  high  treason,  was  seised  and  a  toueinent  in 
Thaxsted  of  the  yearly  value  of  6s.  8d.  of  which  Thomas  Potter,  outlawed 
for  treason,  an  aider  of  John,  late  earl  of  Oxford,  was  seised,  not  exceeding 
the  yearly  value  of  6  marks,  to  hold  by  the  accustomed  rents  and  services. 

By  p.s. 


Membrane  24(1. 

Aug.  3.  Commission  to  William  Haute,  knight,  John  Kyryell,  Vincent  Fynch, 
Westminster.  William  Brent,  John  Appulton,  Thomas  Caxton  and  the  sheriff  of  Kent  to 
enquire  into  all  shipments  of  wools,  hides,  wool-i'ells,  lead,  tin  and  other 
merchandise  which  ought  to  repair  to  the  staple  of  Calais  m  the  said  county 
contrary  to  the  form  of  the  statutes  of  8,  10  and  14  Henry  VI.  and  to 
certify  thereon  to  the  treasurer  and  barons  of  the  Exchequer  in  the  octaves 
of  St.  Hilary  next. 

The  like  to  the  following  : — 

Thomas  Stedolf,  Thomas  Combe,  John  Goryng,  Vincent  Fynch,  Walter 

Forde  and  the  sheriff  in  the  county  of  Sussex. 
Vacated  because  otherwise  below. 


490 


CALENDAR  OF  PATENT  ROLLS. 


1474.  Membrane  24c? — cont. 

William  Barkeley,  Roger  Kelsale,  Thomas  Brune,  John  Pounde, 

Edward  Wayte  and  the  slieriff  in  the  county  of  Southampton. 
John  Daubeney,  Richard  Chomerey,  John  Byconell,  John  Nauby,  John 

Bettescombe  and  the  sheriiF  in  the  county  of  Dorset. 
Robert  Willoughby,  knight,  John  Fortescu  and  the  sheriff  in  the 

county  of  Cornwall, 
John  Pomerey,  Charles  Dynham,  Oto  Gilbert,  Richard  Ohechestre  and 

the  sheriff  in  the  county  of  Devon. 
John  Byconell,  Robert  Stowell,  William  Hody,  J ohn  Kendale  and  the 

sheriff  in  the  county  of  Somerset. 
Roger  Kemys,  Thomas  Lemeryk,  Kenelm  Dygas,  James  Hyet  and  the 

sheriff  in  the  county  of  Gloucester. 
William  Griffith  and  David  Middelton  in  the  parts  of  North  Wales. 
John  Savage,  knight;  William  Stanley,  knight,  and  the  sheriff  in  the 

county  of  Chester. 
Thomas  Stanley  of  Stanley,  knight,  Thomas  Molyneux  and  the  sheriff 

in  the  county  of  Lancaster. 
William  Parre,  knight,  John  Parre,  knight,  Christopher  Moresby, 

knight,  Richard  Barowes,  Robert  Lampleugh  and  the  sheriff  in  the 

county  of  Westmoreland. 
William  Legh,  knight,  and  the  sheriff  in  the  county  of  Cumberland. 
Roger  Hern,  Robert  Wydryngton,  Ralph  Hothum,  John  Lilborne 

the  younger  and  the  sheriff  in  the  county  of  Northumberland. 
Thomas   Burgh,   knight,   William   Husee,    Robert   Shefeld,  John 

Whichcotes,  Richard  Welby,  Richard  Spert,  Thomas  Gylby  and  the 

sheriff  in  the  county  of  Lincoln. 
Robert  Wyngfeld,  knight,  Henry  Haydon,  Richard  Suthwell,  John 

Fynchman  and  the  sheriff  in  the  county  of  Norfolk. 
John  Wyngfeld,  knight,  John  Henyngham,  knight,  John  Clopton  and 

the  sheriff  in  the  county  of  Suffolk. 
Stephen  Hatfeid,  Edmund  Talbot,  Nicholas  Leventhorpe,  Guy  Vyncenl, 

Richard  Stourton  and  the  sheriff  of  York  in  the  parts  of  Holder- 

nesse. 

William  Hopton,  John  Woderoue,  Roger  Hopton,  Nicholas  Middelton, 
Robert  Barnard  and  the  sheriff  in  the  West  Riding  of  the  county  of 
York. 

Thomas  Pudsey,  John  Hoperton  and  the  sheriff  in  the  North  Riding 

of  the  county  of  York. 
Thomas  Mountgomery,  knight,  Richard  Haute,  Alvred  Cornburgh, 

John  Ingoldesby,  Robert  Plummer  and  the  sheriff  in  the  county  of 

Essex. 

John  Carlhill  and  John  Cartyngton  in  the  bishopric  of  Durham. 
The  like  to  Thomas  Stedolf,  Thomas  Combe,  John  Goryng,  Vincent 
Fynche,  Walter  Forde  and  the  sheriff  of  Sussex  to  enquire  as  above  in  the 
county  of  Sussex  and  certify  as  above  on  the  quinzaine  of  Easter  next. 


Membrane  22d. 

Sept.  16.  Commission  o  oyer  and  terminer  to  the  king's  brother  George,  duke  of 
Northampton.  Clarence,  John  Audcleyof  Audeley,  knight,  John  Sutton  of  Dudley,  knight, 
Richard  Fenys  of  Dacre,  knight,  Thomas  Billyng,  Thomas  Littelton  and 
Henry  Botellcr  touching  all  murders,  felonies,  riots,  extortions,  oppressions 
and  other  offences,  treasons  only  excepted,  committed  within  the  counties  of 
Warwick  and  Gloucester  before  4  Marcli,  12  Edward  IV,  By  K. 

Sept.  22.  Commission  to  Geoffrey  Warton,  one  of  the  king's  Serjeants  at  arms,  to 
Kenilworth.   take  into  the  king's  hands  all  the  lands,  pos^c■s^ions  and  goods  late  o|' 


14  EDWARD  IV.— Part  II. 


491 


1474.  Membrane  22d — cont. 

Henry  Bodrugan  late  of  Bodrugan,  co.  Cornwall,  esquire,  attainted  of 
divers  treasons,  riots  and  felonies  by  authority  of  Parliament,  within  the 
counties  of  Cornwall,  Devon  and  Gloucester  and  elsewhere  in  England  and 
to  receive  the  issues  of  the  same  and  render  account  to  the  king. 

Vacated  and  cancelled  on  mandate  of  the  king  to  the  chancellor  and 
the  keeper  of  the  rolls  of  Chancery  by  writ  of  privy  seal  on  6  February. 

Oct.  20,        Commission  to  Robert  Oxenbrygge,  Heniy  Auger,  John  Wylkynson, 
Westminster.  Thomas  Banke,  serjeant  at  arms,  and  the  sheriff  of  Sussex  to  arrest  Robert 
Baseley  of  Wynchelsee  and  bring  him  before  the  king  and  council. 


Membrane  2 Id. 

Aug.  21.  Commission  to  William  Stanley,  knight,  Ralph  Brereton,  knight,  Robert 
Westminster.  Foulherst,  knight,  John  Maynewaryng,  knight,  Peter  Dutton,  John  Fitz- 
herbert  and  David  Fcrrour  to  take  muster  of  the  king's  knight  Gilbert 
Debenhara  and  400  archers  in  his  company  whom  the  king  has  ordered'  to 
be  sent  to  Ireland  in  any  place  near  the  city  of  Chester  on  9  September 
next  or  within  three  days  following  and  to  certify  thereon  to  the  king  and 
council. 


Membrane  20d. 

Aug,  6.  Commission  to  the  king's  brotiier  George,  duke  of  Clarence,  John  Dynham 
Westminster,  of  Dynham,  knight,  Thomas  Selynger,  Robert  Willughby,  knight,  Thomas 
Fulford,  knight,  Charles  Dynham,  Edward  Courtenay,  Thomas  Arundell, 
Thomas  Beaumont,  Richard  Eggecombe  and  the  sheriff  of  Cornwall  to  make 
proclamation  in  the  market  towns  and  other  towns  of  the  said  county  of 
divers  acts  of  Parliament  by  authority  of  which  Henry  Bodrugan  late  of 
Bodrugan,  co.  Cornwall,  esquire,  is  attainted  at  the  king's  suit  of  divers 
treasons,  felonies,  riots  and  other  crimes  committed  by  him  anil  his  ill- 
governed  servants,  and  to  arrest  the  said  Heiu-y  with  his  people  and  bring 
him  to  the  king's  presence  in  person  without  bail  or  mainprise ;  as  John 
Arundell  of  Talverne,  co.  Cornwall,  esquire,  John  Penpons  of  the  same 
county,  esquire,  William  Carnsuyowe  of  the  same  county,  esquire,  Oto 
Philip,  yeoman  of  the  crown,  Thomas  Nevyllc,  esquire,  and  James 
Trefusis,  '  gentilman,' have  shown  the  king  that  the  said  Henry,  outhwed 
by  force  of  the  said  attaint,  tramples  on  the  king's  lieges  in  the  said  county 
and  through  him  they  fear  to  dwell  in  the  county.  By  p.s. 

Aug.  2.  Commission  to  Robert  Wyngfcdd,  knight,  John  Hastynges,  Robert 
Westminster.  Radcliff,  Henry  Haidon,  Richard  Suthwell  and  .John  Crede  to  enquire  what 
lands  and  goods  John  Dowes  late  of  Norwich,  '  yoman,'  outlawed  on 
JVIonday,  31  May,  13  Edward  IV.  at  the  suit  of  the  king's  firstborn  son 
Edward,  prince  of  Wales,  in  the  county  of  Norfolk,  held  on  that  day,  into 
whose  hands  they  liave  come  and  what  they  are  worth. 


Membrane  17  d. 

Dec.  17.  Commission  to  Thomas  Tyrell,  knight,  William  Pyrton,  knight,  .Tolm 
Westminster.  Tyrell  of  Bechc,  David  Mortymer,  Edward  Skclton,  one  of  the  king's 
Serjeants  at  arms,  William  Wlieler  and  the  shcrifE  of  Essex,  on  complaint 
by  Nicholas  Veer  and  John  Scolte,  merchants  of  Danske  in  Prussia,  and 
Peter  Smedc,  master  of  a  ship  called  le  George  of  Danske,  that  whereas 
the  said  ship  was  laden  at  Danske  with  '  waynescote,'  chests  of  Prussia, 
cables,  boards,  pitch  and  bitumen  and  other  goods  of  gieat  value  to  take  to 
England  and  was  wrecked  on  the  coast  of  the  said  county  and  lost  and  the 
greater  part  of  the  said  goods  were  cast  ashore  and  arc  now  in  the  hands  of 


492 


CALENDAR  OF  PATENT  ROLLS. 


1474.  Membrane  I7d — cont. 

the  inhabitants  and  the  said  Peter  and  the  mariners  of  the  said  ship  came 
alive  to  land  so  that  it  could  not  be  called  wi'eck  of  sea,  nevertheless  they 
cannot  obtain  restitution  of  the  said  goods,  to  enquire  into  whose  hands  the 
goods  came  and  to  restore  them  to  the  said  master  and  merchants  if  they 
shall  prove  them  to  be  lawfully  theirs,  saving  reasonable  salvage,  and  to 
certify  to  the  king  the  names  of  any  who  shall  refuse  to  make  such 
restitution. 

Membrane  I6d. 

Dec.  8.  Commission  to  Richard  Copcott  to  make  payments  of  prest  money  to 
Westminster.  Aetchevs  (petillarii)  for  the  manufacture  of  '  shefe  arowes,' workmen  for 
the  manufacture  of  bows  and  '  bowestaves,'  smiths  for  the  manufacture  of 
arrowheads  and  workmen  called  '  stringers  '  for  the  manufacture  of  strings 
for  bows  in  the  counties  of  Berks,  Oxford,  Buckingham,  Bedford, 
Northampton  and  Rutland  and  to  certify  thereon  to  the  king  and  council 
with  all  speed,  the  king  having  caused  proclamations  to  be  made  by  the 
sheriiFs  in  those  counties  for  the  manufacture  of  the  same  with  all  speed  for 
the  ordnance  of  the  army  going  with  him  to  France  for  the  recovery  of  that 
realm  and  his  right  there.    [Fcede7-a.]  By  K. 

The  like  to  John  Wysberd  in  the  counties  of  Norfolk,  Suffolk,  Cambridge 
and  Huntingdon. 

The  like  to  Thomas  Blaunchard  in  the  counties  of  Warwick,  Stafford, 
Derby,  Nottingham  and  Leicester,  the  city  of  Coven  tre  and  the  town  of 
Notyngham. 

The  like  to  Thomas  Bestney  in  the  counties  of  Wilts,  Gloucester, 
Hereford,  Salop  and  Worcester. 

The  like  to  William  Warde  in  the  counties  of  Dorset,  Somerset,  Devon 
and  Cornwall. 

The  like  to  Richard  Dalker  in  the  counties  of  Essex,  Middlesex  and 
Hertford  and  the  city  of  London. 

The  like  to  John  Covert  in  the  counties  and  cities  of  Lincoln  and 
York. 

The  like  to  Thomas  Bowes  in  the  counties  of  Kent,  Surrey,  Sussex  and 
Southampton,  the  city  of  Canterbury  and  the  town  of  Suthampton. 

Membrane  I5d. 

Nov.  28.  Commission  to  Thomas  Seintleger,  Robert  Wylughby,  knight,  Alvrcd 
Westminster  Corneburgh  and  the  sheriff  of  Cornwall  to  arrest  all  masters,  mariners, 
pirates,  possessors  and  victuallers  of  any  ships  and  vessels  of  the  town,i 
and  ports  of  Fowey,  Bodennek  and  Polruen,  as  ihey  have  committed  great 
depredations  on  goods  and  merchandise  of  merchants  and  others  contrary 
to  the  form  of  treaties  and  friendships  with  and  safe  conducts  of  the  king 
and  do  not  heed  the  king's  m.mdates  but  daily  do  worse,  and  also  all  into 
whose  hands  such  goods  and  merchandise  have  come  and  to  bring  them 
before  the  king  and  council,  and  to  seize  their  goods  and  merchandise  and 
the  said  ships  and  vessels  and  the  gear  of  the  same  and  imt  them  in  safe 
custody.  By  K. 

1475,  Membrane  14d. 

Jan.  24.        Commission  to  Roger  Ree,  knight,  Robert  Chamberlain,  knight,  James 
Westiuinsier.  Tyrell,  knight,  and  John  Dorward,  knight,  to  inquire  Avliat  lands  John 
Skrenc,  knight,  tenant  in  chief,  held  in  the  counties  of  Suffolk,  Essex, 
Hertford  and  Cambridge,  what  they  are  worili,  on  what  day  he  died  and 
who  is  his  heir,  and  to  take  the  same  into  the  king's  hands. 


14  EDWARD  IV.— Part  H. 


493 


1474.  Membrane  \M. 

Dec.  2.  Commission  to  .John  Pounde,  William  Wayte,  Edward  Wayte  and  John 
Westminster.  Whitehede  to  enquire  into  the  complaint  of  Henry  Averey,  merchant  of 
Reddou  in  Brittany,  that  when  he  was  coming  to  Eno;Lind  with  a  carvel 
called  le  Jidyan  of  Garrant  in  Brittany  of  which  Jaket  Husban  was 
master,  laden  with  21  tuns  of  wine  of  Brittany,  salt,  linen  cloths  and  iron,  a 
certain  ship  came  upon  them  near  the  Isle  of  Wif^ht  of  which  Maurice  Calf  was 
master,  .John  Smitli '  (piartermaster,'  John  Grene  purser  (ljurcerus)  and  Peter 
Martyn  of  Portesmouth  victualler,  and  these  and  John  Nicott,  Gascon,  of 
Sandewyche  and  John  Warley,  bailiff  of  Portesmouth,  entered  the  carvel 
and  despoiled  it  of  the  said  wines,  goods  and  merchandise  to  the  value  of 
694  crowns  and  55  crowns  in  money  and  other  personal  utensils,  contrary 
to  the  form  of  the  treaty  between  tlie  king  and  his  kinsman  tlie  duke 
of  Brittany,  and  to  cause  restitution  to  be  made  and  arrest  and  imprison 
all  who  refuse  to  make  restitution,  and  to  arrest  the  said  Maurice, 
John,  .John,  Peter,  John  and  John  and  bring  them  before  the  king  and 
council. 

Nov.  26.        Commission  to  Richard  Jcnney,  Robert  Pcmberton,  William  Spenne  and 
Westiiiiuster.  the  sheriffs  of  Huntingdon  and  Northampton  to  enquire  of  what  lands 
Thomas  Tresham,  knight,  was  seised  in  his  demesne  as  of  fee  in  the  said 
counties,  how  much  they  are  worth,  by  what  service  and  of  whom  they  are 
held  and  on  what  day  he  died. 

Dec.  3.  Commission  to  John  Cunstable,  knight,  the  mayor  of  Newcastle  on  Tyne, 
Westminster.  John  Ayssheton,  esqnire,  and  Robert  Spal(l3'ng,  one  of  the  king's  Serjeants 
at  arms,  to  inquire  into  the  complaint  of  Thomas  Kyng  of  Stralissounde 
in  Almain,  master  and  owner  of  a  ship  called  le  C/tristofrc  of  Stralissounde, 
that  when  he  and  six  other  persons  were  sailing  on  the  high  sea  towards 
Selnnd  in  the  said  ship  laden  at  Stralessounde  with  divers  goods  and 
merchandise  to  the  value  of  200/.  sterling  and  more  GO  men  came  upon 
them  off  the  coast  of  Scarburgh  in  three  great  ships  of  Scarburgh  called 
*  fysshers  '  of  which  Thomas  Sawge  is  owner  and  seized  the  said  ship  of 
Stralessounde  and  took  it  to  Newcastle  on  Tyne  and  disposed  of  the  goods 
and  merchandise  and  the  ship  and  its  gear  to  the  value  of  100  marks, 
contrary  to  tho  form  of  the  peace  concluded  with  the  commonalties  of  the 
IJanse  Almain  on  2H  February  last,  and  to  cause  restitution  to  be  made 
and  arrest  and  imprison  all  who  refuse  to  make  restitution,  and  to  arrest  the 
said  'J'homas  Sawgoand  all  concerned  in  the  capture  and  bring  them  before 
the  king  and  council. 

Dec.  G.  Commission  to  Thomas  Markham,  esquire,  to  examine  all  ships  and 
Westiniiister.  vessels  of  the  portage  of  16  tons  and  over  in  any  ports,  places  and  ci'eeka 
in  the  ports  of  Jjondon  and  Sandwich  and  from  thence  by  the  sea  coast  to 
the  port  of  Bristol  and  to  certify  thereon  to  the  king  and  council  with  all 
speed  and  to  take  and  impress  th«m  at  his  discretion  for  the  conduct  of  the 
king's  army  and  ordnance  to  Franco.  By  C. 

The  like  to  Richard  Exton  in  the  water  of  Lye  to  Orwell  and  from 
thence  by  the  sea  coast  to  the  port  of  Newcastle  on  Tyne. 

Jan.  1.         Commission  to  the  mayor  of  Exeter  and  John  l'"'ortescu  and  Alvred 
Wc'stiiiinstcr.  Corncburgh,  esquires,  to  enquire  about  all  treasons  and  ollences  committed 
within  the  county  of  Devon  and  city  of  Exeter  contrary  to  the  form  of 
safe-conducts  of  the  king  and  friendships  and  treaties  conclutled  between 
the  king  and  others. 


Membraxe  12(L 


Jan.  28.  Conmiission  to  Richard  Ran,  mayor  of  Quynburgh,  Eilward  Skeltdn,  one 
Westminster,  of  the  king's  Serjeants  at  arms,  and  the  sheriff  of  Kent,  on  complaint  by 


494 


CALENDAR  OF  PATENT  ROLLS. 


1475.  Membrane  12d — cont. 

Nicholas  Veer  and  Matthew  Blake,  merchants  of  Danske  in  Prussia,  and 
Peter  Smede,  master  of  a  ship  called  le  George  of  Danske,  that  whereas  the 
said  ship  was  laden  at  Danske  with  '  waynescote,'  chests  of  Prussia,  tables, 
boards,  pitch  and  bitumen  and  other  goods  of  great  value  to  take  to  England 
and  was  wrecked  on  the  coast  of  the  said  county  and  lost  and  the  greater 
part  of  the  said  goods  were  cast  ashore  and  are  now  in  the  hands  of  the 
inhabitants  and  the  said  Peter  and  the  mariners  of  the  said  ship  came  alive 
to  land  so  that  it  could  not  be  called  wreck  of  sea,  nevertheless  they  cannot 
obtain  restitution  of  the  said  goods,  to  enquire  into  whose  hands  the  goods 
came  and  to  restore  them  to  the  said  master  and  merchants  if  thay  shall 
prove  them  to  be  lawfully  theirs,  saving  reasonable  salvage,  and  to 
certify  to  the  king  the  names  of  any  who  shall  refuse  to  make  such 
restitution. 


Membrane  \\d. 

Dec.  27.        Commission  to  the  mayor  and  sheriiS  of  Suthampton,  Peter  Malleryng 
Westminster,  and  William  Isaak  to  arrest  William  Brewer  of  Fowey  and  bring  him  before 
the  king  and  council. 

Dec.  26.  Commission  to  the  king's  uncle  Henry,  earl  of  Essex,  John  Howard, 
Westminster,  knight,  Thomas  Ursewyk,  knight,  Roger  Eee,  knight,  Alvred  Cornburgh, 
esquire,  John  Forster,  esquire,  and  the  sheriffs  of  Suffolk,  Cambridge,  Essex 
and  Hertford  to  enquire  what  lands  John  Skrene,  knight,  tenant  in  chief, 
held  in  the  said  counties,  what  they  are  worth,  on  what  day  he  died  and 
who  is  his  heir,  and  to  take  the  same  into  the  king's  hands. 


1475.  Membrane  lOrf. 

March  2.  Commission  to  William  Rosse,  esquire,  to  take  carpenters  called  '  whelers ' 
Wesbninster.  and  '  cartwrightes '  and  other  carpenters,  joiners,  stonecutters,  smiths, 
plumbers,  '  shippewrightes,'  '  coupers,'  'sawyers,'  '  flecchers,"  chariotmen,' 
'  horsharneys  makers '  and  other  workmen  within  the  realm  of  England  and 
the  town  and  marches  of  Calais  and  elsewhere  under  the  king's  obedience 
for  the  works  of  the  king's  ordnance,  and  bombards,  cannons,  culverins, 
'  fowelers,'  '  serpcntynes,'  and  other  cannon,  powder,  sulphur,  saltpetre, 
stone,  iron,  lead  and  other  necessaries,  crossbows  and  bolts  for  them, 
bows,  arrows,  '  arrowtymbre,'  '  bowestaves,'  '  bowestrynges,'  '  billes,'  '  axes,' 
'  langedebefes,'  lances,  '  gleyves,'  hammers,  armaments  of  war,  oaks,  elms, 
ashes,  beeches,  alder,  birch,  holm  and  other  timber,  'tanned  leder '  and 
'  calveskynnes  '  and  other  necessaries  for  the  ordnance,  and  all  ships  and 
vessels  of  16  tons  and  over  and  masters  and  mariners  for  them.  By  K. 


Membrane  8d. 

Jan.  23.        Commission  to  John  Brysley,  master  of  a  ship  called  la  Mary  Grace^ 
Westminster,  and  William  Peny,  purser  of  the  same,  to  take  mariners  for  the  conduct  of 
the  said  ship  and  workmen  for  its  repair,  as  the  king  is  going  with  an 
armed  force  to  France  for  the  recovery  of  his  right  there.  {Fcedera^ 

The  like  to  the  following : — 
William  Harper,  master  of  a  ship  called  la  Mary  Ratclyf,  and  Richard 

Fyssher,  purser  of  the  .same. 
Richard  Bygge,  master  of  a  ship  called  le  Anne,  and  John  Drewe, 

purser  of  the  same. 
Richard  William,  master  of  a  ship  called  la  James,  and  William 

Gardyner,  purser  of  the  same. 
John  Power,  master  of  a  ship  called  le  Trinite,  and  Nicholas  Coles, 

purser  of  the  same. 


14  EDWARD  IV.— Part  II. 


495 


Membrane  8d — co7it. 

Commission  to  Roger  Trewaian,  master  of  .a  ship  of  the  king  called 
Grace  JJieu,  David  Whyte,  purser  of  the  same,  John  Trace  and  Peter 
Chate  to  take  mariners  for  the  governance  of  the  said  ship  for  the  conduct 
of  the  king's  armed  force  with  which  lie  is  going  in  person  to  France  for 
the  recovery  of  that  realm  and  his  right  there.  [i^a'Jem.] 

The  like  to  Charles  Dynham,  esquire,  and  John  Bucke,  master  of  a  ship 
called  Marye  Asshe. 

Membrane  7d. 

Jan.  12.  Commission  of  array  to  the  king's  kinsmen  William,  earl  of  lArundel,  and 
Lincoln.  Thomas  Arundell  of  Matravers,  knight,  Willir.m  Berkeley,  Edward  Berkeley, 
William  Ovedale,  Thomas  Leukenore,  Thomas  Pownde,  John  Paulet,  John 
Walop,  John  Rogers,  Thomas  Browne,  Charles  Bulkeley  and  the  sheriff  in 
the  county  of  Southampton  for  the  defence  of  the  Isle  of  Wight  and  the 
adjacent  parts. 

Commission  to  Robert  Cousyn  to  take  ships  and  vessels  in  the  port  of 
Suthampton  and  masters  and  mariners  for  them  for  an  armed  force  with 
which  the  king  is  going  to  sea. 

Feb.  21.  Commission  to  Ralph  Makerell,  doctor  'of  either  law,  Michael  Carvanell, 
WestiniDster.  bachelor  in  either  law,  I'homas  Coke,  knight,  and  Henry  Daners,  '  mercer,' 
to  hear  and  determine  an  appeal  by  Thomas  Siiarpe,  merchant  of  the  staple 
of  Calais,  against  a  judgment  pronounced  by  Master  William  Godyer,  doctor 
of  laws,  lieutenant  or  conimis.sary  of  the  king's  brother  Richard,  duke  of 
Gloucester,  admiral  of  England,  Ireland  and  Aquitaine,  in  the  principal 
court  of  Admiralty  of  England  in  an  action  before  him  by  John  Fyssher, 
'  gentilman,'  plaintifl",  and  the  said  Thomas,  defendant,  concerning  the  seizure 
of  a  ship  called  le  Trinite  of  Caleys,  alias  of  London. 


Membrane  5d. 

Commission  to  Alvred  Cornburgh  to  ,«(>izc  all  ships  of  the  portage  of 
16  tuns  and  over  in  any  ports,  creeks  and  places  of  the  counties  of  Devon 
and  Cornwall  and  the  town  of  Bristol  and  take  them  to  the  Thames  and 
elsewhere  at  the  king's  command  for  the  coniluct  of  the  king's  army  to 
France,  and  to  take  masters  and  mariners  for  tlieir  governance  and  to  arrest 
and  imprison  the  disobedient.    [^Fa'dcra.^  By  K. 

Writ  of  aid,  directed  to  all  admirals  and  others,  for  the  said  Alvred. 

By  K. 

Commission  to  Thomas  Markeham  to  examine  all  ships  and  vessels  of  the 
portage  of  J 6  tons  and  over  in  the  ports  of  London  and  Sandwich  and  from 
thence  by  the  sea  coast  to  the  port  of  Bristol  and  to  certify  thereon  to  the 
king  and  council  with  all  speed  and  to  take  and  impress  them  at  his 
discretion  for  the  conduct  of  the  king's  army  and  ordnance  to  P>ance. 

By  K. 

Commission  to  Richard  Exton  to  examine  ail  ships  and  vessels  of  the 
portage  of  16  tons  and  over  in  the  water  of  Lye  to  Orwell  and  from  thence 
by  the  sea  coast  to  the  port  of  Newcastle  on  Tync;  and  to  certify  thereon 
to  the  king  and  council  with  all  S2)eed  and  to  take  and  impress  them  at  his 
discretion  for  the  conduct  of  the  king's  army  and  ordnance  to  France. 

By  K. 

Feb.  24.        Commission  to  James  llyet  to  take  80  diggers   or  workmen  called 
Westminster.  '  myners  '  for  the  king,  who  is  going  in  person  to  the  realm  of  France  for 
the  recovery  of  the  same  and  his  right  there.  By  K 


1475. 

Feb.  16. 
Westminster, 


CALENDAR  OF  PATENT  ROLLS, 


1475.  Membrane  4d. 

Feb.  27.       Commission  to  Thomas  Bateson,  master  of  a  ship  called  le  Marrjarete  of 
Westminster.  Calais,  to  take  mariners  for  the  governance  of  the  said  ship  for  the  conduct 
of  an  armed  force  which  the  king  has  ordered  to  go  to  sea. 

The  like  to  the  following  : — 
Feb.  22.  John  Worsle,  captain  of  a  ship  called  Ic  Kateriiie  Revers,  and  Garard 

  Baker,  master  of  the  same. 

John  Ferrer,  master  of  a  ship  called  le  Trynyte,  and  Richard  Alder, 

purser  of  the  same. 
William  Fetherston,  master  of  a  ship  called  le  Car  eg  an. 

Commission  to  Thomas  Vaghan,  esquire  of  the  body,  and  Richard 
Laurence  and  Roland  Forster,  clerks  of  the  king's  jewels,  to  take  gold- 
smiths and  other  workmen  of  that  mistery  for  attendance  on  the  king's 
person,  {Fcedera^ 

March  3.  Commission  to  John  Keriell,  captain  of  certain  ships  called  le  Marie 
Westminster.  Cole,  le  Swan  and  le  Packer,  and  John  Cole,  owner  of  the  same,  to  take 

mariners  for  the  governance  of  the  said  ships  for  the  conduct  of  an  armed 

force  which  the  king  has  ordered  to  go  to  sea. 

■j^^y^  Membrane  3d. 

Nov.  28.  Commission  to  Thomas  Bulkeley  to  receive  the  tenth  in  the  counties  of 
Westminster.  Kent,  Surrey,  Sussex  and  Southampton,  the  cities  of  Canterbury  and 
Rochester,  the  town  of  Suthamptou,  the  borough  of  Suthwerk,  and  the  ports 
of  Dover,  Sandwich,  Romeucy,  Rye,  Hastynges,  and  Wynchelsey  and  their 
members,  which  the  commons  of  the  realm  in  the  present  Parliament  at 
Westminster,  6  October,  12  Edward  IV.  liave  granted  to  the  king  for  the 
defence  of  his  realm  and  subjects  in  part  payment  of  the  wages  of  13,000 
bowmen,  each  receiving  Gd.  daily  for  one  year,  and  to  examine  and  super- 
vise the  collection  of  the  same  and  make  delivery  of  the  sums  at  the  receipt 
of  the  Exchequer.  By  K. 

The  like  to  the  following: — 

Richard  Page  in  the  counties  of  Dorset,  Somerset,  Devon  and  Corn- 
wall, the  city  of  Bath  and  the  town  of  Bristol. 
Richard  Harper  in  the  counties  of  Wilts,  Gloucester,  Hereford,  Salop 
and  Worcester,  the  cities  of  Salisbury  and  Worcester  and  the  towns 
of  Gloucester  and  Shrewsbury. 
John  FitzHerberd  in  the  counties  of  Warwick,  Stafford,  Derby, 
Nottingham  and  Leicester,  the  city  of  Coventry  and  the  town  of 
Notyngham. 

Robert  Caldecote  in  the  counties  of  Berks,  Oxford,  Buckingham, 

Bedford,  Northampton  and  Rutland  and  the  town  of  Oxford. 
John  Sorell  in   the   counties  of  Norfolk,  Suffolk,  Cambridge  and 

Huntingdon  and  the  city  of  Norwich. 
Robert  Plomer,  in  the  counties  of  Essex,  Hertford  and  Middlesex  and 

the  city  of  London. 
Roger  Hopton  in  the  West  Riding,  East  Riding,  and  North  Riding  of 

the  county  of  York,  the  city  of  York  and  the  town  of  Kyngeston  on 

Hull. 

Richard  Spert  in  the  parts  of  Holand,  Lyndesey  and  Kesteven  of  the 

county  of  Lincoln. 
Hugh  Gartsyde  in  the  county  of  Lancaster. 


1475. 

April  19. 
Westminster. 


Membrane  Id, 


Commission  to  Thomas  Lygon,  Humphrey  Salw(!y,  Roger  Harewcll, 
William  Lygon  and  the  sheriff  of  Worcester  to  enquire  what  lands  John 


14  EDWARD  IV.— Part  II. 


497 


1475.  Membrane  \d — cont. 

Beauchamp  of  Beaucliamp,  knight,  tenant-in-chief,  held  in  the  saitl  county, 
what  they  are  worth,  on  what  day  lie  died  and  who  is  his  heir,  and  to  take 
the  lands  into  the  king's  hands. 

Vacated  because  enrolled  in  the  fifteenth  year. 

April  23.  Commission  to  William  Stanley,  knight,  John  Savage,  knight,  Thomas 
Westminster.  Mauley,  knight,  Thomas  Uanyell,  Roger  Button  of  Button,  Peter  Baucton 
of  Hacton,  esquire,  and  John  Suthworth,  esquire,  to  arrest  John  Rutter, 
*  gentilman,'  and  John  Obryth  and  others  who  have  received  the  king's 
wages  from  Gilbert  Bebenham  to  serve  the  king  in  Ireland  in  his  company 
but  have  not  yet  come  to  the  king's  service,  and  to  imprison  them  until  they 
shall  restore  the  said  wages  or  find  security  that  they  will  serve  the  king  in 
the  company  of  the  said  Thomas  Banyell,  and  to  certify  thereon  to  the  king 
and  council. 

Vacated  because  enrolled  in  the  fifteenth  year. 
April  23.        Like  commission  to  Thomas  Stanley  of  Stanley,  knight,  William  Stanley, 
Wcstmiuster.  knight,  John  Savage,  knight,  Thomas  Mauley,  knight,  .lames  Stucle,  knight, 
Peter  Liegh,  knight,  John  Stanley,  Thomas  Molyneux,  Thomas  Uaiiy*.]), 
Roger  Button  of  Button,  Peter  Baucton  of-  Hatton,  esquire,  John  Suth- 
worth, esquire,  and  the  mayor  of  Hartylpole. 
Vacated  because  enrolled  in  the  fifteenth  year. 


y  96186. 


498 


15  EDWAED  IV.— Part  I. 


1475. 

April  12, 
Westminster. 


April  15. 
Westminster. 


April  19. 
'Westminster. 


April  22. 
Westminster. 


April  13. 
Westminster, 


April  12. 
Westminster. 


April  12. 
Westminster, 


May  8. 
Westminster. 


May  8, 

Westminster, 


Membrane  31. 
Pardons  of  outlawry  to  the  following  : — 

William  Batell,  late  parson  of  the  parish  church  of  St.  John,  Staundon, 
CO.  Oxford,  for  not  appearing  before  the  justices  of  the  Bench  to 
answer  George  Irlond,  knight,  citizen  and  alderman  of  London, 
touching  a  delDt  of  he  having  surrendered  to  the  Flete  prison, 
as  Thomas  Bryan,  chief  justice  of  the  Bench,  has  certified,  London. 

Clement  Carter  late  of  Yoxford,  co.  Suffolk,  '  husbondman,'  for  not 
appearing  to  answer  Eoger  Bee,  knight,  late  esquire,  late  sheriff  of 
Norfolk,  touching  a  debt  of  201.  Suffolk. 

Thomas  Boteler  late  of  Gloucestre,  esquire,  for  not  appearing  before 
Robert  Danby  and  his  fellows,  late  justices  of  the  Bench,  to  answer 
John  Kyrton,  citizen  and  mercer  of  Loudon,  touching  a  debt  of  14/, 

London, 

William  Dauyell  of  Pokerych,  co.  Hertford,  '  chapman,'  for  not  ap- 
pearing to  answer  Thomas  Rightwyse  of  Sallo  touching  a  debt  of 
40*,  Norfolk. 

Robert  Huchons  of  Lychcfeld,  co.  Stafford,  '  dyer,'  for  not  appearing 
before  John  Prysot  and  his  fellows,  justices  of  the  Bench  of  the 
late  king,  to  answer  John  Batyn  touching  a  debt  of  30/.  Bristol. 

Robert  Ilayton  of  Hayton,  co.  York,  '  gentilman,'  for  not  appearing 
before  the  king  to  answer  Robert  Rudston,  'goutihnan,'  touching  a 
trespass.  Norfolk. 

Richard  Joynour,  citizen  and  grocer  of  London,  for  not  appearing 
before  John  Prysot  and  his  fellows,  justices  of  the  Bench  of  the 
late  king,  to  answer  John  Coventre  of  Levyse,  co.  Wilts,  merchant, 
touching  a  debt  of  120/.  \3s.  8d.  and  before  Robert  Danby  and  his 
fellows,  late  justices  of  the  Bench,  to  answer  a  plea  that  he  render 
8/.  Gd.  to  Walter  Stokker  and  Agnes  his  wife,  late  the  wife  of 
William  Gregory  medins  late  of  the  parish  of  St.  John,  Walbroke, 
citizen  and  skinner  of  London,  and  executrix  of  his  will. 

Middlesex. 

John  Trotte  of  Taunton,  co.  Somerset,  '  milward,'  for  not  appearing 
before  Robert  Danby  and  his  fellows,  late  justices  of  the  Bench,  to 
answer  William  Bokette,  '  marchaunt,'  touching  a  debt  of  40*.  Wilts. 

John  Bolton,  late  of  Athcrton,  co.  Lancaster,  '  yoman,'  for  not  appear- 
ing to  answer  Robert  Ilarecourt,  knight,  toucliing  a  trespass 
committed  by  him  and  John  Atherton,  late  of  Atherton,  'gentilman,' 
Roger  Bolton  late  of  Bolton,  co.  Lancaster,  '  gentilman,' Nicholas 
Kilchith  late  of  Atherton,  chiiplain,  and  Ralph  Yns  late  of  Atherton, 
*  gentilman.'  Oxford. 

John  Strelley  of  Lyndeby,  co.  Nottingham,  esquire,  for  not  appearing 
before  the  justices  of  tiic  Bench  to  answer  Roger  Doket,  chaplain, 
touching  a  debt  of  40s.  Middlesex. 

John  Bawcde  late  of  London,  •  gentylman,'«/«as  late  of  Great  Chester- 
ford,  CO.  Essex,  for  not  appearing  to  answer  John  Hawekyns, 
citizen  and  draper  of  London,  touching  a  debt  of  14/.  Middlesex. 


15  EDWARD  IV.— Part  I. 


499 


Membrane  30. 

Edward  Assheley,  parson  of  the  church  of  Wernesford,  co.  Southampton, 
for  not  appearing  to  answer  Thomas  Twygg  of  London, '  tayllour,' 
touching  a  debt  of  110  {sic).  London. 

Thomas  Eery  of  Salwho  in  the  parish  of  Ronhale,  co.  Bedford, 
'  husbondman,'  for  not  appearing  before  John  Prysot  and  his  fellows, 
justices  of  the  Bench  of  the  late  king,  to  answer  John,  prior  of 
Newenharo,  co.  Bedford,  touching  a  debt  of  40  marks.  Bedford. 

WaUcr  Couper  late  of  Melles,  co.  Suffolk,  '  taillour,'  for  not  appearing 
before  the  justices  of  the  Bench  to  answer  a  plea  that  he  render  his 
account  to  John  Aleyn,  chaplain,  son  of  Richard  Aleyn  late  of  Bury 
St.  Edmunds,  and  Master  John  Nicole  the  younger,  chaplain, 
executors  of  the  will  of  the  said  Richard,  for  the  time  when  he  was 
receiver  of  the  said  Richard.  Suffolk. 

John  Gybbes  of  Westlydyard,  co.  Somerset,  '  hu.sbondman,'  for  not 
appearing  to  answer  Henry  INIaschall  touching  a  debt  of  40f. 

Somerset. 

John  Wilcokson  late  of  Lee,  co.  Derby,  *  yoman,'  for  not  appearing 
before  Robert  Danby  and  his  fellows,  late  justices  of  the  Bench,  to 
answer  John  More  of  Worcester,  '  plomer,'  touching  a  debt  of 
8  marks  6s.  8^/-  Worcester. 

John  Tynbery  alias  Tynburc  of  Polyngton  in  the  parish  of  Snayth, 
CO.  York,  'yoman,'  and  Agnes  his  wife,  late  the  wife  of  John 
Skypwith,  late  citizen  and  merchant  of  York,  and  executrix  of  his 
will,  for  not  appearing  to  answer  u  plea  tliat  they  render  8/.  to 
Thomas  Hemelsey,  citizen  and  merchant  of  York.  York. 

John  Benet  late  of  Camley,  co.  Somerset,  *  husbondman,'  alias  '  zemaii,' 
for  not  appearing  before  the  justices  of  the  Bench  to  answer  John 
Fysshc,  chaplain,  of  Henton  Prior  touching  a  debt  of  6  marks. 

Somerset. 

John  Idewyn  of  Lcsyngham,  co.  Norfolk,  clerk,  for  not  appearing  to 
answer  the  warden  or  dean  and  the  canons  of  the  king's  free  chapel 
of  St.  George  within  the  castle  of  Wyndesorc  touching  a  debt  of  40/. 

Middlesex. 

[From  7  Jiili/  to  22  September  inclusive  tht  entries  are  attested  by 
Edward,  prince  of  Wales,  keeper  of  the  realm  of  England. '\ 

William  Waterfall  late  of  Leghton  Busard,  co.  Bedford,  '  tanner,'  for 
not  appearing  before  Robert  Danby  and  his  fellows,  late  justices  of 
the  Bench,  to  answer  a  pica  that  he  render  Al.  to  Joan  lludgicy  of 
London,  '  wydowe,'  and  William  Tango,  citizen  and  girdler  of 
London,  executors  of  the  will  of  Jolm  lludgrey,  late  citizen  and 
girdler  of  London.  London. 

William  Adam  late  of  Great  Everysdon,  co.  Cambridge,  '  husbondman,' 
for  not  appcfiring  before  the  justices  of  tlio  Bench  to  answer  John 
Styuecle  touching  a  debt  of  10/.  Cambridge. 

Philippa  Banaslrc  late  of  London,  uiilow,  executrix  of  the  will  of 
Thomas  Charles,  esquire,  for  not  appearing  to  answer  a  plea  that 
she  render  503/.  to  Edmund  Clere  of  Stokesby,  co.  Norfolk,  cs(piirc. 

London. 

William  Cokkys,  citizen  and  skinner  of  London,  for  not  appearing  to 
answer  Edmund  Rygon,  citizen  and  draper  of  London,  toueliing  a 
debt  of  10/.  Ad.  London. 

I  I  2 


600 


CALENDAR  OF  PATENT  ROLLS. 


1475. 

Oct.  17. 

Westminster. 


Oct.  20. 
Westminster. 


Oct.  24. 
Westminster. 


Oct.  14. 
Westminster. 

Oct.  10. 
Westminster. 


Oct.  9. 

Westminster. 


Oct.  27. 
Westminster. 


Oct.  31. 

Westminster. 

Oct.  31. 
Westminster. 


Oct.  9. 
Westminster. 

Nov.  4. 

Westminster. 


Nov.  6. 
Westminster, 


Membrane  30 — cont. 
Edmund  Caccheare  late  of  Wymbotesham,  co.  Norfolk,  *  husbondman, 
for  not  appearing  to  answer  Walter  Cony,  alderman  of  the  gild 
merchant    of  Holy   Trinity,   Bishop's  Lenn,   and  burgess  and 
merchant  of  Bishop's  Lenn,  touching  a  debt  of  12^.  13s.  4d. 

Norfolk. 

William  Haldenby  of  Iseham,  co.  Northampton,  '  gentilman,'  for  not 
appearing  to  answer  a  plea  that  he  render  17^.  to  Thomas 
Poraerey,  prior  of  Holy  Trinity,  London,  executor  of  the  will  of 
William  Lemyng,  late  citizen  and  grocer  of  London.  Middlesex. 

William  Plowryght  of  Thynden,  co.  Northampton,  '  husbondman,' 
alias  '  chapman,'  alias  William  Ploughwryght  late  of  Thyndon, 
'  yoman,'  for  not  appearing  before  Robert  Danby  and  his  fellows, 
late  justices  of  the  Bench,  to  answer  John  Stoktou,  citizen  and 
mercer  of  London,  and  John  Clerk  touching  debts  of  5is.  and 
13/.  6*.  8d.  respectively.  London. 

Bristol. 

Robert  Bell  late  of  Brentwode,  co.  Essex,  '  yoman,'  for  not  appearing 
before  the  justices  of  the  Bench  to  answer  Thomas  Kesyng,  citizen 
and  mercer  of  London,  touching  a  debt  of  70^.  London. 

John  Wyght  late  of  Oxford,  clerk,  alias  late  rector  of  Neunton,  co. 
Oxford,  for  not  appearing  to  answer  Thomas  Malward  alias 
Colyer  of  the  county  of  Oxford,  '  yoman,'  touching  a  debt  of  20/. 

Oxford. 

Henry  Scylby  of  Iseham,  co.  Northampton,  'husbondman,'  for  not 
appearing  to  answer  a  plea  that  he  render  17/.  to  Thomas  Pomerey, 
prior  of  Holy  Trinity,  London,  executor  of  the  will  of  William 
Lemyng,  late  citizen  and  grocer  of  Loudon.  Middlesex. 

John  Coke  of  Iseham,  '  husbondman,'  for  the  same.  Middlesex. 

William  Pole  of  Iseham,  clerk,  for  the  same.  Middlesex. 

John  Farmar  of  Iseham,  '  husbondman,'  for  the  same.  Middlesex. 

John  Sheryngham  of  Geysthweyte,  co.  Norfolk,  'husbondman,'  for  not 
appearing  bel'ore  Robert  Dauby  and  his  fellows,  late  justices  of  the 
Bench,  to  answer  John  Curson,  knight,  touching  a  debt  of  40s. 

Norfolk. 

Richard  Bulkeley  late  of  Neuport,  co.  Salop,  '  yoman,'  for  not  appearing 
before  the  justices  of  the  Bench  to  answer  John  Audeley,  knight, 
toucliiug  a  debt  of  70s.  4d.  Surrey. 

Robert  George  late  of  Boston,  co.  Lincoln,  '  baker,'  for  not  appearing 
before  Robert  Dauby  and  his  fellows,  late  justices  of  the  Bench,  to 
answer  Henry  Norbury,  citizen  and  baker  of  London,  touching 
a  debt  of  8/.  12s.  Loudon. 

Nicholas  Sadde  late  of  Norwich,  '  skryvener,'  for  not  appearing  before 
Thomas  Bryan  and  his  fellows,  justices  of  the  Bench,  to  answer 
Edward  Andrewe,  clerk,  touching  a  trespass.  Loudon. 

William  Beaushyn  late  of  Attewarde,  co.  Wilts,  '  gentilman,'  for  not 
appearing  before  Robert  Danby  and  his  fellows,  late  justices  of  the 
Bench,  to  answer  Jolm  Crowton,  citizen  and  mercer  of  London,  alias 
'  gyrdeler,'  touching  a  debt  of  40s.  London. 

Thomas  Purcell  of  Neweton  Purceil,  co.  Oxford,  '  geutilman,'  for  not 
appearing  to  answer  John  Samwell  touching  a  debt  of  5  marks. 

Oxford, 


15  EDWARD  IV.— Part  I. 


501 


1475.  Membrane  30 — cont. 

Oct.  9.  Robert  Mynet  late  of  Estdrayton,  co.  Nottingham,  *  husbondman,'  for 

Westminster.  not  appearing  before  the  justices  of  the  Bench  to  answer  Thomas 

Thurhmd  of  Notyngham,  merchant,  touching  a  debt  of  10  marks. 

Town  of  Nottiugliam. 

Nov.  6.  Robert  Baker  late  of  Feversham,  co.  Kent,  '  yoman,'  for  not  appearing 

Westminster.  to  answer  William  Colyngbornc,  esquire,  touching  a  trespass  com- 

mitted by  himself  and  Richard  Wolff  late  of  Feversham,  '  grocer.' 

Middlesex. 

Nov.  9.  John  Skirbek  late  of  Stepill  Mordon,  co.  Cambridge,  'yoman,'  for  not 

Westminster.  appearing  to  answer  a  plea  tliat  he  render  4  marks  to  William 

Scot  and  Joan  his  wife,  executrix  of  the  will  of  Robert  Rothur. 

Bedford, 


Membrane  29. 

Nov.  10.  John  Hede  late  of  Huntyngdon,  co.  Huntingdon,  'notary,' for  not 

Westminster.  appearing  to  answer  John  Yonge  touching  a  debt  of  6/.  Gs.  8r/. 

Norfolk. 

John  Leverun  late  of  Ardeley,  co.  Essex,  '  husbondman,'  for  not 
appearing  to  answer  Robert  Wyngfeld  alias  Wynkefeld  of 
Estliarlyng,  co.  Norfolk,  knight,  touching  a  debt  of  5  marks. 

Norfolk, 

Nov.  11.  John  Slcper  late  of  Dunstable,  co.  Bedford,  '  ostcler,'  for  not  appearing 

Westminster.  to  answer  a  plea  that  he  render  chattels  to  the  value  of  40.v.  to 

Richard  Walter,  citizen  and  'iremonger'  of  Loudon.  London. 

Oct.  9.  Thomas  Leek  of   Skreton,  co.   Noltingiiam,  '  gentilnian,'   for  not 

Westminster.  appearing  to  answer  William  Sutton,  kniglit,  master  of  Burton  St, 

Lazarus  of  Jerusalem  in  England,  and  Jolin  Dowenes  touching  debts 
debts  of  60^,  Sc/,  and  8/.  respectively.  Leicester. 

Town  of  Nottingham, 

Nov,  4.  William  Osteler  alias  Sharpe  late  of  Chepsted,  co.  Kent,  '  husbondman,' 

Westminster.  alias  \N'illiam  Ostyller  late  of  the  jiarish  of  Chedyngston,  co.  Kent, 

for  not  appearing  to  answer  John  Palmer  the  elder  and  John  Palmer 
the  younger  touching  a  debt  of  40/.  Kent, 

Oct.  9.  Richard  Barbour  late  of  London,  '  lethersellcr,'  for  not  appearing  before 

Westminster.  John  Prysot  and  his  fellows,  justices  of  the  Bench  of  the  late  king, 

to  answer  Thomas  Ludford  loncliing  a  trespass  committed  by  him 
and  John  Bclamy  late  of  London,  '  pynner,'  Ricliard  Water  late  of 
London, 'goldsmy til,'  John  Stylcr  late  of  London,  '  coryonr,' and 
Richard  Pratte  late  of  London,  '  lethersellcr.'  Middlesex, 

Nov.  10.  John  Carpenter  late  of  Lurgursale,  co.  Essex,  clerk,  for  not  appearing 

Westminster.  before  the  justices  of  the  Bench  to  render  his  account  to  Thomas 

Poutrell,  executor  of  the  will  of  John  Crecy,  clerk,  lalo  canon  of 
the  free  chapel  of  St.  Stephen  within  the  palace  of  Westminster, 
for  the  time  when  he  was  the  receiver  of  the  said  John.  Essex, 

Nov.  15,  Geofl'rey  More  late  of  Broinley,  co.  Soutliampton,  esquire,  for  not 

Westminster.  appearing  to  answer  tlie  tlcan  and  cl!a[)ter  of  the  cathedral  church 

of  Hereford  touching  a  debt  of  1 1  /.  Hereford, 

Edmund  Assheley  late  of  Upwymborn,  co.  Dorset,  esquire,  for  not 
appearing  to  answer  a  plea  that  he  render  20/.  to  Blanclie  Juye  late 
the  wife  of  Roger  Juye,  executrix  of  the  will  of  Roger  Juye  late  of 
Pole,  CO.  Dorset,  esquire.  Londoc, 


502 


CALENDAR  OF  PATENT  ROLLS. 


1475. 
Oct.  16. 
Westminster. 

Nov.  7. 

Westmiuster. 


Nov.  10. 

Westminster. 

Oct.  30. 
Westminster. 


Nov.  6. 
Westminster. 


Oct.  9. 

Westminster. 


Oct.  SO. 
Westminster. 


Nov.  7. 

Westminster. 

Nov.  25. 
Westminster. 


Nov.  13. 

Westminster. 


Nov.  1. 
Westminster. 


Membrane  29 — cont. 

Richard  Ap.adam  of  Portbury,  co.  Somerset, '  yoman,'  for  not  appearing 
to  answer  Walter  Bonain  touching  a  trespass.  Somerset. 

Henry  Lover  late  of  Leyton  Stone,  co.  Essex,  *  yoman,'  and  Joan  his 
wife,  executrix  of  the  will  of  Richard  Baldewya  late  of  Leyton,  co. 
Essex,  '  yoman,'  for  not  appearing  to  answer  a  plea  that  tlioy  render 
6/.  to  William  Cardmaker,  citizen  and  grocer  of  London.  London. 

Robert  Shapley  late  of  Yetton  in  the  parish  of  South  Tauton,  co.  Devon, 
'  husbondman,'  for  not  appearing  before  the  king  to  answer  John 

Devon. 


Bowelond  touching  a  trespass. 

Thomas  Catchemay  of  Axebrigge,  co.  Somerset, 
appearing  before  the  justices  of  the  Bench  to 
Brandeley  touching  a  debt  of  100*. 


'  fuller,' 
answer 


for  not 
William 
London. 


William  Colette  late  of  Becclys,  co.  Suffolk,  'grocer,'  for  not  appearing 
to  answer  William  Lok  touching  a  debt  of  6O5.  London. 

Thomas  Lokton  alias  Locton,  vicar  of  the  parish  church  of  Lond  on  le 
Wald,  CO.  York,  for  not  appearing  before  John  Prysot  and  his  fellows, 
justices  of  the  Bench  of  the  late  king,  to  answer  Richard  Prankleyu 
and  Henry  Cattal,  chaplain,  touching  debts  of  AOs.  each. 

City  of  York. 

Richard  Cosyngton  late  of  Reynham,  co.  Kent,  'gentilman,'  for  not 
a|)pearing  before  the  justices  of  the  Bench  to  answer  Robert  Page, 
citizen  and  fishmonger  of  London,  touching  a  debt  of  100/. 

London. 

Walter  Gedyng  late  of  Loghton  Brommyswolde,  co.  Huntingdon, 
'  husbondmau,'  for  not  appearing  before  Robert  Danby  and  his  fellows, 
late  justices  of  the  Bench,  to  answer  Thomas  Hundyrpound,  citizen 
and  draper  of  London,  touching  a  debt  of  8/.  Middlesex. 

John  Marchesey  of  Axbrigge,  co.  Somerset,  '  laborer,'  and  Joan  his 
wife  for  not  appearing  before  the  king  to  answer  William  Ruyton 
touching  a  trespass.  Somerset. 

John  Larom  of  York,  '  cardmaker,'  for  not  appearing  before  Rol)crt 
Danby  and  his  fellows,  late  justices  of  the  Bench,  to  answer  William 
Stanes,  citizen  and  *  litster  '  of  York,  touching  a  debt  of  40*. 

York. 

William  Mollyng,  vicar  of  Bradwell,  co.  Oxford,  for  not  appearing 
before  the  justices  of  the  Bench  to  answer  Gerard  Dodyngfels, 
esquire,  touching  a  debt  of  GO*.  Warwick. 

Robert  Borden  of  Hadecron,  co.  Kent,  '  yoman,'  for  not  appearing  to 
answer  William  Higham  touching  a  tresp.iss  committed  by  him  and 
Tiiomas  Byrcher  of  Goutherst,  co.  Kent,  the  elder,  *  husbondman,' 
Thomas  Bircher  of  Goutherst  the  younger,  'husbondmau,'  and 
Walter  Turnour  of  Hadecron,  '  laborer.'  Kent. 

Roger  Chapman  late  of  Blechynglye,  co.  Surrey,  'yoman,'  for  not 
iippeai'ing  before  Thomas  Bryan  and  his  fellows,  justices  of  the 
Bench,  to  answer  John,  duke  of  Norfolk,  touching  a  debt  of  20/. 

Suffolk. 

John  Wyllyems  late  of  Strode,  co.  Kent,  '  cordewaner,'  and  Margaret 
his  wife,  executrix  of  the  Avill  of  Thomas  Elyse,  'yoman'  and 
servant  of  the  bishop  of  Rocliester,  for  not  appearing  before  the 
justices  of  the  Bench  to  answer  a  plea  that  they  reader  40#.  to  John 
Stonys,  citizen  and  skinner  of  London.  Kent. 


15  EDWARD  IV.— Part  I. 


503 


1475. 

Nov.  28. 

Westminster 


147G. 

Feb.  6. 

Westminster. 

Jan.  23. 

Westminster. 


Feb.  6. 
Westminster. 

Feb.  3. 

Westminster. 


1475. 

Nov.  8. 

Westminster. 

Oct.  9. 

Westminster. 


Nov.  7. 
Westminster. 


1476. 

Jan.  25. 

Westminster. 

Jan.  2G. 
Westminster, 

Jan.  2.3. 

Weslmin.strr. 


Feb.  10. 

Westminster. 


Membrane  29 — cont. 

John  Sherlok  of  Bourhenton  in  the  parish  of  Mertok,  co.  Somerset, 
'  liusbondman,'  for  not  ajjpeaiing  before  Robert  Danby  and  his 
fellows,  late  justices  of  the  Beach,  to  answer  John  Roggiirs  alias 
Rogger  touching  a  debt  of  IQOs.  London, 


Membrane  28. 

John  Wade  late  of  Stavcrton,  co.  Devon,  the  elder,  *  husbondinan,'  fur 
not  appearing  to  answer  Thomas  llayle  touching  a  debt  of  20/. 

Devon. 

Richard  Pynchcbek  late  of  Swynyshed,  co.  Lincoln,  '  gentylinan,'  and 
Joan  his  wife,  executrix  of  the  will  of  Thomas  Fry  the  late  of 
Swynyshed,  'gentylman,'  for  not  appearing  before  the  justices  of  the 
Bench  to  answer  a  plea  that  they  render  10/,  to  Dame  Katharine 
Withom.  Middlesex. 

John  Pcverell  late  of  Great  Catworth,  co.  Huntingdon,  '  husbondman,' 
for  not  appearing  to  answer  Henry  Stokker  of  Wyboldeston, 
'  wolman,'  touching  a  debt  of  40/.  Bedford. 

Richard  Wryght  of  Little  O.tsnden,  co.  Northampton,  *  husbondman,' 
for  not  appearing  bcfon;  Rob.rt  Danby  and  liis  fellows,  late  justices 
of  the  Bench,  to  answer  John  Langton,  esquire,  touching  a  trespass, 

Northampton, 


Membrane  26. 

John  Ams  of  Bcdcnhnm,  co.  Bedford,  clerk,  for  not  appearing  before 
the  king  to  answer  William  Wele,  clerk,  touching  a  trespass. 

London. 

John  Grene  late  of  Banbury,  co.  Oxford,  '  dyer,'  for  not  appearing 
before  the  justices  of  the  Bench  to  answer  a  plea  that  he  render 
41.  18s.  to  Emma  Lambe  and  William  C'ardemaker,  executors  of  the 
will  of  John  Lambe,  late  grocer  of  London.  London. 

M.'itthew  Grace  late  of  Frome  in  Selwodo,  co.  Somerset,  *  clothmaker,' 
for  not  appearing  before  Robert  Danby  and  his  fellows,  late  justices 
of  the  Bench,  to  answer  John  Maunche  of  London, '  drainer,'  touching 
a  debt  of  ill.  8s.  London. 


William  Kirkeliam  late  of  Fcnyngley,  co.  Nottingham,  clerk,  for  not 
appearing  before  the  justices  of  the  Bench  to  answer  George  Cley, 
esquire,  touching  a  trespass.  Nottingham. 

Robert  Overton  kite  of  Westbury,  co.  Salop,  clerk,  for  not  appearing 
before  Robert  Danby  and  his  fellows,  late  ju:<tices  of  the  Bench,  to 
answer  John  Lardener  touching  a  debt  of  23/.  6*.  8f/.  London. 

William  Smyth,  late  of  Coosby  by  Trysk,  co.  York,  clerk,  alias 
William  Marshall  of  Coile.sby,  co.  York,  clerk,  for  not  appearing 
before  the  justices  of  the  Bineh  to  answer  William  Johnson  touching 
a  trespass  and  when  sued  with  William  Pykcryng  late  of  Leyk,  co. 
York,  '  laborer,'  to  answer  Ralph  l^anby  touching  a  trespass. 

York. 

William  Pcynter  of  Dunstaple,  co.  Bedford,  *  carderaaker,'  for  not 
appearing  before  Robert  Danby,  knight,  and  his  fellow.^,  late  justices 
of  the  Bench,  to  answer  William  Rcdekuappe,  citizen  and  mercer  of 
London,  toucliiug  a  debt  of  60s.  Middlesex, 


504 


CALENDAR  OF  PATENT  ROLLS. 


1476. 

Feb.  12. 
Westminster. 

Feb.  9. 
Westmiuster. 

Feb.  10. 
Westminster. 

Feb.  12. 
"Westminster. 

Feb.  12. 
Westminster. 

Jan.  23. 
Westminster. 


M75. 

Oct.  18. 

Westminster. 


Membrane  26 — cont. 

Robert  Osmond  late  of  Horton,  co.  Sotithampton,  '  husbondman,' 
for  not  appearing  before  the  justices  of  the  Bench  to  answer  John, 
abbot  of  Letteley,  touching  a  trespass.  Southampton. 

Thomas  Hervy  late  of  Horsham  St.  Faith,  co.  Norfolk,  clerk,  for 
not  appearing  to  answer  Thomas,  abbot  of  St.  Benet,  Plulme,  co. 
Norfolk,  touching  a  debt  of  6/.  Norfolk. 

John  Baker  of  Somerleton,  co.  Suffolk,  '  yoman,'  for  Jiot  appearing  to 
answer  William  Baxter  of  Hevenyngham  touching  a  debt  of  10/. 

Suffolk. 

Thomas  Walker  of  Fodynghey,  co.  Northampton,  '  fuller,'  for  not 
appearing  before  the  king  to  answer  John  Zouche,  esquire,  touching 
a  trespass.  Northampton. 

John  Seward  late  of  Coventry,  'hosteler,'  for  not  appearing  before  the 
justices  of  the  Bench  to  answer  Robert  GrevyJe  touching  a  debt 
of  8/.  London. 

William  West  late  of  Hardewyk,  co.  Norfolk,  '  housebondman,'  for 
not  appearing  to  answer  Thomas  Coke,  citizen  and  draper  of 
London,  touching  a  debt  of  8/.  Middlesex. 

John  Cokyn  late  of  Assheburn  in  le  Peek,  co.  Derby,  esquire,  for  not 
a])pearing  to  answer  William  Person  the  elder,  citizen  and  tailor  of 
London,  touching  a  debt  of  10/.  London. 

John  Porter  late  of  Whitby,  co.  York,  '  raarchaunt,'  for  not  appearing 
to  answer  a  plea  that  he  render  9  marks  to  John  Edmonson. 

Lincoln. 


1876.  Membrane  24. 

March  4.       Grant  to  William  Parre,  knight,  of  the  custody  of  all  lordships,  lands, 
Westminster,  rents  and  services  late  of  Thomas  Colt,  tenant  in  chief,  deceased,  during 
the  minoi  ity  of  .John  his  son  and  heir  and  the  custody  and  marriage  of  the 
latter  without  disparagement,  and  so  from  heir  to  heir.  By  p.s. 

March  4.  Grant  for  life  from  Michaelmas  Inst  to  the  king's  servant  Arthur  Grayson 
Westminster,  of  the  office  of  one  of  the  king's  Serjeants  at  arms,  receiving  \2d.  daily  from 
the  issues  of  the  counties  of  Caiubridge  and  Huntingdon,  and  a  livery  of 
the  suit  of  other  Serjeants  at  aims  yearly  at  Christmas  at  the  great  ward- 
robe ;  in  lieu  of  another  grant  to  him  of  the  office  by  letters  patent  dated 
2  November,  1  Edward  IV.  surrendered.  By  K, 

March  7.       General  pardon  to  William  Grenbam  late  of  London,  esquire,  alias 
Weetminster.  William  Grenam  late  of  Keton,  co.  Rutland,  'gentilman,'  alias  late  of 
Loxton,  CO.  Somerset,  of  all  offences  committed  by  him  before  3  March. 

By  p.s. 

March  11.      Presentation  of  Christopher  Bank,  parsou  of  the  parish  church  of 
Westminster.  St.  Mary,  Chelmesford,  in  the  diocese  of  London,  to  the  parish  church  of 
SS.  Peter  and  Paul,  Scrayngham,  in  the  diocese  of  York,  on  an  exchange 
of  benefices  with  Thomas  Bower.  By  p.s. 

March  9.        Grant  in  mortmain  to  Henry,  the  prior,  and  the  convent  of  Lanthony  by 
Westminster.  Gloucester  of  14  acres  of  land  and  meadow  formerly  granted  to  a  chapel 
called  '  Maundelynes,'  now  destroyed  and  waste,  that  they  may  undertake 
the  repair  of  a  bridge  at  Deueleke  in  Ireland  called  '  lez  Maundelynes 
Brigg,'  for  which  the  king  has  been  charged  with  divers  sums  yearly. 

By  p.s. 


15  EDWARD  IV.— Part  I. 


506 


1475.  Membrane  24 — co7it. 

March  6.       General  pardon  to  Richard  Brewer  late  of  Gloucester,  *  yoman,'  altos 
Westminster.  Richard  Wattys  of  Great  Malvern,  co.  Worcester,  *  yoman/  of  all  offences 
committed  by  him  before  3  March.  By  p.s. 

General  pardon  to  John  Fenys,  esquire,  son  of  William  Fenys,  knight, 
late  lord  of  Say,  and  John  Pykcrink  alias  Gille,  *  grome,'  of  all  offences 
committed  by  them  before  2  March.  By  p.s. 

March  14.  Whereas  Henry  Colas  of  Guldeford  owes  15/.  20d.  from  the  remainder  of 
Westminster.  178/.  lis.  8f/.  from  the  custody  of  the  subsidy  of  cloths  for  sale  in  the 
county  of  Kent  before  49  Edward  III.  paying  20*.  yearly  from  11  July, 
19  Richard  II.  at  the  Exchequer  by  mainprise  of  Thomas  Loxle  of  the 
county  of  Surrey  and  John  Freemantell  of  the  same  county,  the  said  20s. 
being  levied  yearly  from  certain  lands  late  of  the  said  Henry,  and  the  said 
lands  came  into  the  king's  hands  by  reason  of  an  act  in  Parliament  at 
Westminster,  4  J^ovember,  1  Edward  IV.  by  the  forfeiture  of  Hugh 
Hylton  and  the  king  granted  the  same  for  life  to  his  servant  John  Lee,  one 
of  the  yeomen  of  the  king's  chamber,  who  accordingly  is  charged  \7itii  the 
said  15/.  2Qd. ;  the  king  hereby  grants  to  the  said  John  Lee  the  said  20s. 
yearly  from  the  said  lands  at  his  own  hands  or  the  hands  of  the  sheriff  of 
Surrey  and  Sussex  until  the  said  lo/.  20d.  sliall  be  fully  paid,  in  full 
satisfaction  of  the  said  178/.  lis.  Sc/.  By  p.s. 

March  14.      Mandate  to  all  bailiffs  and  others  to  permit  William  Harwode,  born  at 
Wcstiniustcr.  Dundee  in  Scotland,  dwelling  at  Salisbury,  co.  Wilts,  who  has  taken  an 
oath  of  fealty,  to  inhabit  the  realm  peaceably  and  enjoy  his  goods.     By  K. 


Membrane  23. 

March  5.  Grant  to  the  king's  servant  William  Stanley,  knight,  and  the  heirs  male 
Westminster,  of  his  body  of  the  castle,  lordship  and  manor  of  Chirke  and  Chirkeland  in 
the  marches  of  Wales  adjoining  the  county  of  Salop  and  the  lordship  and 
manor  of  Wilmyngton,  co.  Kent,  with  all  towns,  townships,  hamlets, 
messuages,  lands,  meadows,  feedings,  pastures,  woods,  waters,  stanks,  stews, 
mills,  gardens,  dovecotes,  rents,  services,  reversions,  courts,  leets,  offices, 
views  of  frank-pledge,  mines  of  coal  and  lead,  escheats,  liberties,  franchises, 
rights,  commodities,  knights'  fees,  advowsons,  wards,  marriages,  scutages, 
reliefs,  hundreds,  wapentakes,  commotes,  fines,  amercements,  forfeitures, 
fiiirs,  markets,  places,  parks,  warrens,  fisheries,  wreck  of  sea,  treasure  trove, 
waifs,  strays,  chattels  of  felons,  fugitives  and  outlaws  and  returns  and 
executions  of  writs;  in  lieu  of  a  grant  to  him  and  Joan  his  wile,  now 
deceased,  of  the  castle,  manor  and  lordship  of  Skipton  in  Craven  and  the 
manor  of  Marton  in  Craven,  co.  York,  by  letters  patent  dated  12  Is'ovember, 
5  Edward  IV.  surrendered. 


Membrane  22. 

March  6.  Licence  for  the  alienation  in  mortmain  by  John  Barre,  knight,  to 
Westminster.  Richard  Boole,  chaplain  of  the  chantry  which  lie  had  licence  by  letters 
patent  dated  15  February,  13  Edward  IV.  to  found  in  the  parish  church 
of  St.  Mary,  Clehungre,  co.  Hereford,  in  the  diocese  of  Hereford,  of  three 
messuages,  200  acres  of  land,  9  acres  of  j)asture,  three  parts  of  18  acres  of 
meadow  and  three  parts  of  12  acres  of  pasture  in  Luyde  Muchcgrosse, 
Clehungre  and  Huugarston,  extended  at  8  marks  yearly,  not  held  in  chief, 
as  appears  by  an  inquisition  taken  before  Thomas  Bryges  and  Thomas 
Braynton  by  virtue  of  a  commission  directed  to  them  and  others,  to  hold  to 
the  value  of  8  marks  yearly  in  part  satisfaction  of  8/, 

March  23.  Grant  to  the  king's  brother  Richard,  duke  of  Gloucester,  constable  of 
Westminster.  England,  the  king's  kinsman  Henry,  earl  of  Northumberland,  William 


606 


CALENDAR  OF  PATENT  ROLLS. 


X475.  Membrane  22 — co)it. 

Goderswyk,  merchant,  and  John  Marchall,  '  mercer,'  of  the  mine  of 
Blanchclond  called  'Shyldejn,'  co.  Northumberland,  the  mine  in  Alston 
More  called  '  Feccheroos,'  the  mine  of  Keswyk,  co.  Cumberland,  and  the 
mine  of  copper  by  Rychemond^  co.  York,  to  hold  from  the  Annunciation 
next  for  fifteen  years,  paying  to  the  king  the  eighth  part  of  the  pure  silver 
and  copper,  and  to  the  lords  of  the  soil  the  ninth  part  and  to  the  curate  of  the 
place  the  tenth  part  of  '  lees  ewrs,'  and  paying  all  expenses.  They  shall 
have  power  to  search  and  dig  freely,  to  buy  wood  and  underwood  and  coal 
for  the  purging  of  the  metals  and  to  take  workmen  and  labourers,  and  to 
hold,  or  appoint  a  steward  to  hold,  a  court  in  the  mines  to  hear  and 
determine  all  pleas  except  those  of  land,  life  and  members.  By  K. 


Membrane  21. 

March  14.  Exemplification,  at  the  request  of  Galiard  Dureford,  knight,  lord  Duras, 
Westminster,  of  the  tenours  of  the  following  : — 

1.  A  petition  (English)  of  the  said  Galiard  in  the  Parliament  summoned 

at  Westminster  on  6  October,  12  Edward  IV.  and  continued  by 
divers  prorogations  until  23  January,  14  Edward  IV.  that  whereas 
on  6  September,  4  Edward  IV.  by  letters  patent  under  the  seal  of 
the  duchy  of  Lancaster  the  king  granted  to  him  for  life  100/.  yearly 
from  the  issues  of  the  manor  or  lordship  of  Bolingbroke,  in  the  duchy 
of  Lancaster,  and  he  was  born  in  the  duchy  of  Guienne  and  has  no 
livelihood  within  the  realm,  if  he  should  die  within  the  next  five 
years  his  assigns  or  executors  might  receive  the  said  100/.  yearly 
to  the  end  of  that  term. 

2.  The  assent  by  the  commons  : — A  cest  bille  lez  cotiimunez  sont 

assentuz. 

3.  The  answer  of  the  king : — Soil  fait  come  il  est  desire.    [Rolls  of 

Parliament,  VI.  129.] 

March  20.  General  pardon  to  Thomas  Meryman  of  Petrell  Wra,  co.  Cumberland, 
Westminster.  <  yoman,'  of  all  offences  committed  by  him  before  14  March,  By  p.s. 

March  20.       General  pardon  to  John  Frestou,  chaplain,  alias  clerk.  By  p.s. 

Westminster. 

March  12.       Licence  for  John  Kendale,  knight,  brother  of  St.  John  of  Jerusalem  in 
Westminster.  England,  or  his  executors,  factors  or  attorneys  to  ship  100  woollen  cloths 
without  grain  in  any  ports  of  England  and  take  them  to  any  foreign  parts 
quit  of  subsidies.  By  p.s. 

March  18.  General  pardon  to  William  Forster  alias  Yarward  late  of  London, 
Westminster.  '  yonian,'  of  all  offences  committed  by  him  before  13  March.  By  p.s. 

March  30.       Appointment,  until  1  September,  of  John  Elder,  yeoman  purveyor  of 
Westminster,  wheat  of  the  household,  to  take  wheat,  fire-Avood  and  multure  for  the 
expenses  of  the  household  and  carriage  for  the  same. 

By  bill  of  the  treasurer  &c. 

March  20.  Grant  to  William  Hastinges,  knight,  lord  Hastinges,  chamberlain  of  the 
Westminster,  household,  and  his  heirs  and  assigns  of  the  advowson  of  a  perpetual  chantry 
of  one  chaplain  celebrating  divine  olEces  in  the  chapel  of  St.  John  the  Baptist 
by  the  north  door  in  the  cathedral  church  of  St.  Paul,  London,  or  elsewhere 
in  the  said  church,  of  the  foundation  of  Beatrice  sometime  the  wife  of  Sir 
Thomas,  lord  of  lloos  of  Hamelake,  knight,  and  others,  the  said  advowson 
lately  belonging  to  Thomas,  late  lord  Roos,  and  being  in  the  king's  hands 
by  reason  of  an  act  of  forfeiture  in  Parliament  at  Westminster,  4  November, 
1  Edward  IV.  By  p.s. 


15  EDWARD  IV.— Past  I. 


507 


1475,  Membrane  20. 

March  14.  Whereas  Edward  III.  by  letters  patent  granted  licence  for  his  kinswoman 
Westminster.  Elizabeth  de  Burgh  to  grant  in  frank  almoin  to  the  prior  and  convent  of 
Angleseye  201.  of  rent  from  a  manor,  a  messuage  and  24  acres  of  land  of 
hers  in  the  town  of  Lakingheth  and  the  manor  of  the  prior  of  Ely  in 
tlie  same  town  at  the  hands  of  the  said  prior,  and  the  prior  and  convent 
were  accordingly  seised  of  the  said  rent  and  bound  themselves  to  find  two 
secuUir  chaplains  to  be  chosen  by  them  to  celebrate  divine  service  daily  at 
the  altar  of  the  Holy  Cross  in  their  church  of  Angleseye  for  the  good 
estate  of  the  said  Elizabeth  and  for  her  soul  after  death  and  to  find  a 
dwelling  for  them  within  the  close  of  the  priory  and  a  competent  livelihood, 
paying  to  each  of  them  20s.  yearly  for  clothes  and  other  necessaries,  or  if 
they  thought  better  to  grant  to  them  12  marks  yearly  from  the  said  rent, 
and  to  fill  their  place  by  brethren  of  their  own  house  should  the  chaplains 
or  either  of  them  be  unable  to  celebrate  divine  service,  and  a  certain  chapel 
has  been  newly  built  at  Botesham  by  William  Alyngton  and  the  prior  and 
convent  on  account  of  their  poverty  cannot  now  support  the  said  chaplains  ; 
the  king  hereby  grants  to  the  prior  and  convent  that  they  shall  in  future  be 
quit  of  finding  the  said  chaplains,  so  that  they  bind  themselves  to  find  two 
chaplains  from  the  religious  brethren  of  their  priory  to  celebrate  divine 
service,  one  at  the  said  altar  in  the  priory  and  the  other  in  the  said  chapel 
daily  as  above  and  for  the  good  estate  of  the  king  and  his  consort  Elizabeth, 
queen  of" England,  and  the  said  William  and  Joan  his  wife  and  for  their 
souls  after  death.  By  K. 

March  10.  Grant  for  life  to  Thomas  Maister  of  a  messuage  and  60  acres  of  land  in 
Westminster.  Ronale,  co.  Bedford,  which  Robert  Coldcote  lately  held  of  the  king  at 
farm  for  7*.  yearly  and  all  the  lands  in  Craumfeld,  iShytlyngton,  Barton  iu 
the  Clay,  Flatewyk,  Graveuhurst  and  Sutton,  co.  Bedford,  which  John 
Brown  and  Bartholomew  Willesdon  lately  held  of  the  king  at  farm  for 
7s.  6d.  yearly,  to  hold  from  St.  Thomas  the  Apostle,  13  Edward  IV.  without 
rendering  any  account,  as  William  Pole,  late  yeoman  of  the  chamber,  did. 

ByK. 

March  8.  Exemplification,  at  the  request  of  the  king's  brother  Richard,  duke  of 
Westminster.  Gloucester,  and  Anno  his  wife,  of  the  tenour  of  an  act  (English)  in  the 
Parliament  summoned  at  Westminster  on  6  October,  12  Edward  IV.  and 
continued  by  divers  prorogations  to  23  January,  14  Edward  IV'.  and 
3  March,  ordering  that  from  24  September  last  the  king  should  have  the 
lordship,  manor  and  wapentake  of  Chesterfeld  and  Scarcsdale  alias  Scarves- 
dale  and  all  lands  in  Chesterfeld,  co.  Derby,  and  the  manor  of  Busshey,  co. 
Hertford,  sometime  of  Alice,  coimtcss  of  Salisbury,  which  were  allottcul  (o 
the  said  Anne  as  one  of  the  daughters  and  heirs  of  Richard,  late  carl  of 
Warwick,  son  and  heir  of  the  said  Alice,  and  in  recompense  of  the  above 
the  said  Richard  and  Anne  should  have  that  part  of  the  umuor  of  Cotyngham 
and  lands  in  Cotyngham,  co.  York,  of  which  the  king's  father  Ixichard, 
duke  of  York,  was  seised  and  the  advowsoii  of  the  church  of  Cotyngham, 
and  the  castle  and  lordship  of  Scarebourgli,  the  fee  farm  of  the  town  and 
borough  of  Scarebourgh  with  the  port  and  haven  of  the  same,  the  fee  farm 
of  Whallesgravc  and  60  acres  of  land  in  Whallo.sgrave,  co.  York,  to  hold 
to  themselves  and  the  heirs  of  Anne.    [Rol/s  (if  ParliamoU,  VL  125.] 

March  17.  General  pardon  to  Margaret  the  wife  of  John  Veer,  knight,  late  earl  of 
Westmiuster.  Oxford,  of  all  offences  committed  by  her  before  12  March.  By  K. 

Membrane  19. 

March  12.  Exemplification,  at  the  request  of  Henry,  duke  of  Buckingham,  of  tho 
Westmiuster.  tonours  of  the  following  : — 

1.  An  act  (English)  iu  the  Parliament  summoned  at  Westminster  ou 
0  October,  12  Edward  IV.  and  continued  by  divers  prorogations  to 


508 


CALENDAK  OF  PATENT  ROLLS. 


1475.  Membrane  19 — cont. 

23  January,  14  Edward  IV.  and  26  January,  ordaining  that  on  and 
after  the  said  26  January  the  said  duke  should  be  taken  as  a  person 
of  the  full  age  of  21  years,  provided  that  this  be  not  prejudicial  to 
Anne,  duchess  of  Buckingham,  or  the  executors  of  Humphrey,  late 
duke  of  Buckingham,  and  that  the  undermentioned  letters  patent 
shall  be  of  full  effect  as  to  the  said  annuity  and  no  person  shall  be 
charged  to  the  present  duke  for  arrears  of  the  annuity  before 
Michaelmas  last. 

2.  Letters  patent  (a  charter)  dated  at  Eltbam,  14  September,  23  Henry  VI. 
{Charier  Roll,  21-24  Henry  VI.  No.  33],  creating  the  said 
Humphrey  duke  of  Buckingham  and  granting  to  him  and  the  heirs 
male  of  his  body  an  annuity  of  40Z.  from  the  issues  of  the  counties 
of  Bedford  and  Buckingham.    [Rolls  of  Parliameiit,  VI.  128.] 

March  16.  Grant  to  the  king's  son  Richard  de  Salopia,  duke  of  York,  and  the  heirs 
Westminster,  of  his  body  of  the  reversions  of  the  manors  of  Weberton  and  Manby, 
Skendilby,  Bradley  and  Graynysby,  co.  Lincoln,  Gaynyspark,  co.  Essex, 
and  Faxton,  co.  Northampton,  on  the  death  of  Margaret,  duchess  of 
Somerset,  the  reversions  of  the  manors  of  Eresby,  Spillesby,  Stepyng, 
Tofte,  Ingolmelserysby,  Fryskeney,  Belcheford,  Toynton,  Thedilthorpe  and 
Westerkele  and  the  park  of  Toynton,  co.  Lincoln,  on  the  death  of  Matilda 
late  the  wife  of  Robert  Willoughby,  knight,  the  reversions  of  the  manors 
of  Willughby,  Hoggesthorpe,  Hellowe,  Aby,  Scotneyfee  in  Cumberworth, 
Orreby,  Harnby,  Fulstowebeek,  Fulstowe  Arsik,  Bui*gh,  Stykford, 
Ratheby,  Fulletby,  Saltflethhavyn,  Somercotes,  Parteney,  Wyspyngton, 
Fenton,  Pynchebek  and  Cokeryngton,  Welles,  Alford,  Wythern  and 
Conyngesholm  and  all  lands,  rents  and  services  in  Swaby,  Malberthorpe, 
Carleton,  Saltfletby,  Ingoldmelles,  Boston,  Sutton,  laud  in  Holond, 
Screvilby,  Sybsey,  Goussell  and  of  the  lastage  in  Skyrbeke,  co.  Lincoln,  a 
messuage  in  the  city  of  Lincoln,  the  manors  of  Eggefeld,  Wheteacre, 
Walcote  Esthall,  Walcote  Westhall  and  Chadgrave,  co,  Norfolk,  the  manor 
of  Pleseley,  cos.  Nottingham  and  Derby,  and  a  messuage  called  '  Basecourt' 
and  fourteen  tenements  with  gardens  adjoining  in  the  parish  of  St.  Giles 
without  Crypylgate,  London,  on  the  death  of  Richard  Hastynges,  knight, 
and  the  reversions  of  the  manors  of  Ellyngton,  co.  Northumberland,  and 
Sutton,  CO.  Lincoln,  on  the  death  of  Marjory  late  the  wife  of  Richard 
Welles,  knight,  all  which  reversions  belong  to  the  king  by  reason  of  an  act 
of  forfeiture,  and  the  reversions  of  all  other  manors,  lands,  rents,  services 
and  possessions  l)elonging  to  the  king  by  virtue  of  the  said  act,  to  hold 
with  knights'  fees,  advowsons,  wards,  marringes,  reliefs,  escheats,  courts, 
leets,  views  of  fi-ank-pledgc,  parks,  wood.?,  warrens,  waters,  fisheries 
stews,  liberties,  franchises,  profits  and  commodities  by  the  accustomed 
services.  By  K. 

Membrane  18. 

March  16.  Exemplification,  at  the  request  of  William  Broune  of  Staumford, 
■Westminster.  '  marchaunt,' of  the  tenour  of  an  article  in  an  act  (English)  of  attaint  in 
the  Parliament  summoned  at  Westminster  on  6  October,  12  Edward  IV. 
and  continued  by  divers  prorogations  to  23  January,  14  Edward  IV. 
ordaining  that  whereas  Richard  Welles  late  of  Hellowe,  co.  Lincoln, 
knight,  caused  Robert  Welles  late  of  Hellowe,  knight,  and  Thomas 
Dclalaunde  late  of  Ilorbljng,  co.  Lincoln,  knight,  and  others  to  assemble 
together  against  Ibe  king  and  they  made  war  against  the  king  on 
12  March,  10  Edward  IV.  in  a  field  called  '  lloruefeld  '  in  Empyngham, 
CO.  Rutlanu,  the  said  Richard,  Robert  and  Thomas  be  convicted  of  high 
treason  and  forfeit  all  the  possessions  which  they  had  on  the  said 
12  March  except  the  manors  of  Lilleford,  co,  Northampton,  and  Hokyngton, 


15  EDWARD  IV.— Part  I. 


50d 


March  14. 
Westminster. 


1475.  Membrane  18 — cont. 

CO.  Cambridge,  whereof  Thomas  FitzWiUiam  the  elder  and  Thomas 
FitzWilliam  the  younger  were  seised  to  the  same  time  that  they  made 
es>tate  thereof  to  Jahue  late  the  wife  of  Richard  Ilastynges,  knight,  and 
heii's  in  fee  and  after  the  said  Richard  and  Jahne  sold  the  same  manors 
to  the  said  William  and  of  the  same  levied  a  fine  to  the  use  of  him  and 
his  heirs.  [Bolls  of  Parliament,  VI.  144.] 

Licence  for  100s.  paid  in  the  hanaper,  for  John  Doreward  of  the  county 
of  Essex,  knight,  to  grant  the  manor  of  Rawereth,  co.  Essex,  held  in  chief, 
to  Clemence  Wahlyngfeld,  widow,  Walter  Devereux,  knight,  lord  Ferrers, 
John  Gunthorpe,  clerk,  Henry  Sharpc,  clerk,  Thomas  Tyrell,  esquire, 
William  Stokker,  knight,  Richard  Doreward,  esquire,  Thomas  Bledlowc, 
alderman  of  London,  John  Sulyard,  Thomas  Wyudesore,  Thomas  Rygby, 
John  Eoteler,  Robert  Broun,  John  Stodawe,  Henry  Colet,  William  Capell 
and  William  Sybson  to  hold  for  the  life  of  the  said  Clemence  by  the 
accustomed  services. 

Marcli  20.  Letters  of  denization  for  Jacome  Rollara,  born  in  the  realm  of  Portugal, 
Westmiuster.  and  the  heirs  of  his  body.  By  p.s.  and  for  40*.  paid  in  the  hanaper. 

March  16.      Grant  to  the  king's  brother  Richard,  duke  of  Gloucester,  and  Robert 
Westminster.  Cresset,  esquire,  of  the  disposition  of  the  next  vacant  prebend  within  the 
college  of  the  king's  castle  of  Birgenorth.  By  K. 


Membrane  17. 

March  23.  Exempliflcation,  for  the  notice  of  all  whom  it  int<;rcsts,  of  the  tcnour  of 
Westminster,  an  act  (English)  in  the  Parliament  summoned  at  Westminster  on  6  October, 
12  Edward  IV.  and  continued  by  divers  prorogations  to  23  January, 
14  Edward  IV.  ordaining  that  whereas  it  has  been  agreed  between  the 
king  .'uid  the  people  of  the  Dutch  Ilanze  that  t'nc  merchants  of  the  Hanze 
shall  lijive  in  perpeiuity  a  place  within  the  city  of  London  called  the 
Stilchof  or  Stileyerd,  and  the  mayor  and  commonalty  of  the  city  of  London 
are  seised  of  the  said  place  lately  appertaining  to  John  Kcynwell,  late 
alderman  of  the  said  city,  lying  in  the  parish  of  Aliialowen  the  More  in 
Thamystrete  in  the  ward  of  Dowgate,  to  the  intent  that  the  issues  shall  be 
disposed  of  in  deeds  of  charity  according  lo  the  last  will  of  the  said  John 
declared  by  the  last  will  of  William  Stafford,  and  are  also  possessed  of 
cci'tain  messuages,  lands  and  tenements  adjoining  the  same  place  in  the  same 
parish  for  a  term  of  years  of  v/hich  thirty-two  years  are  to  come  after  Easter, 
1475,  tlie  reversion  belonging  to  the  prior  and  convent  of  the  hospital  of 
our  lady  of  Elsyngspitell  within  Crepulgate,  London,  and  the  bishop  of 
Winchester  is  seised  of  a  yearly  rent  of  4.s.  6d,  from  the  said  place  called 
Stileyerd  as  in  the  right  of  his  church  of  St.  Swithun  and  the  prioress  of 
the  house  of  our  lady  of  Clcrkenwell  beside  London  of  a  yearly  rent  of  Zos. 
as  in  the  right  of  her  house  in  like  manner,  the  said  merchants  of  Almain 
being  of  the  company  of  the  said  Dutch  Ilanzc  having  the  house  in  London 
called  Gildhald  Teutonicorum  shall  hold  for  evermore  the  said  place  called 
the  Stilchof e  and  also  the  said  messuages,  lands  and  tenements  ior  the  said  term 
of  thirty-two  years  and  afterwards,  paying  to  the  said  mayor  and  commonalty 
a  quit  rent  of  70s.  3*.  Ad.  for  evermore  and  13/.  l(5s.  8(/.  for  the  said  term 
ol'  thirty-two  years  and  also  the  abovemeutioned  rents  to  the  said  bishop  and 
prioress  and  convent,  the  first  of  all  the  said  payments  to  begin  at  the 
Nativity  of  St.  John  the  Baptist,  and  the  said  prior  and  convent  shall  have 
out  of  the  fee-farm  of  the  city  of  London  and  the  county  of  Middlesex  7/. 
yearly  during  the  said  term  ot  thirty-two  years  and  afterwards  13/.  Gs.  8d. 
yearly,  and  this  act  shall  take  effect  from  27  March  1475,  and  whereas  the 
abbot  of  the  monastery  of  St.  Saviour,  Barmoudcsey,  co.  Surrey,  is  seised  in 


610 


CALENDAR  OF  PATENT  ROLLS. 


1475.  Membrane  17 — cont. 

the  right  of  his  monastery  of  a  yearly  rent  of  18s.  out  of  the  said  place  called 
the  Slyleliof  the  said  place  shall  be  discharged  of  the  said  rent  and  in 
recompence  the  abbot  shall  be  discharged  of  all  cori'odies  granted  at  the 
king's  prayer  from  henceforth.  \^Kolls  of  Parliament,  VI.  123.] 


Membrane  16. 


March  23.  Exemplification,  at  the  request  of  the  mayor  and  commonalty  of  the  city 
Westminster,  of  London,  of  the  tenour  of  the  same  act. 


Membrane  15. 

March  20.  Exemplification,  at  the  request  of  Robert  Radclyff,  esquire,  son  of  John 
Westminster.  Radclyff",  knight,  of  the  tenours  of  the  following  : — 

1.  An  article  {see  m.  18)  in  an  act  (English)  of  attaint  in  the  Parliament 

summoned  at  Westminster  on  6  October,  12  Edward  IV.  and 
continued  by  divers  prorogations  to  23  January,  14  Edward  IV. 

{Rolls  of  Parliame?it,  VL  144,] 

2.  A  provision  that  the  act  shall  not  extend  to  any  manors,  lands, 

tenements,  rents,  services  and  hereditaments  -which  were  of  Robert 
Waterton,  esquire,  or  Robert  Waterton,  knight,  his  son  and  heir. 
[Ibid.  145.] 

3.  An  article  in  the  same  act  ordaining  that  all  manors,  lands  and  other 

possessions  of  which  any  persons  by  this  present  act  attainted  were 
seised  or  had  any  estate  in  any  manner  of  mortgage  or  in  surety  of 
sums  of  money  to  be  paid  by  any  feoffment,  grant  or  estate  made  by 
any  persons  not  attainted  be  not  forfeited  in  any  way  to  the  king, 
and  that  it  be  lawful  to  any  persons  not  attainted  who  hare  made 
such  feoffments,  grants  or  estate  to  enter  into  such  possessions 
according  to  their  right,  saving  their  right  to  any  persons  other 
than  persons  attainted  or  the  late  earl  of  Oxford,  George  Veer  and 
Thomas  Veer,  and  provided  that  any  person  who  shall  have  occupied 
any  of  the  premises  before  6  March,  15  Edward  IV.  shall  not  be 
prejudiced.    [Ibid.  147.] 

March  16.  General  pardon  to  Ralph  Cok  of  Newmarket,  co.  Cambridge,  *  yoman,' 
Westminster,  alias  '  husbondman.'  By  p.s. 


Membrane  14. 

March  14.  Letters  of  denization  for  Antony  Spyuell  of  Genoa,  born  in  Italy,  and 
Westminster,  the  heirs  of  his  body. 

By  p.s.  and  for  13^.  4c?.  paid  in  the  hanaper. 

March  14.  Letters  of  denization  for  John  de  Gerona,  doctor  of  decrees,  born  in  the 
Westminster,  realm  of  Aragon.  By  K. 

March  8.  Grant  for  life  to  Richard  Harecourt,  knight,  and  William  Harecourt  his 
Westminster,  son  of  the  office  of  parker  of  the  king's  park  of  Cornbuiy,  co.  Oxford,  and 
the  custody  of  the  park  and  3d.  daily  for  the  said  office  and  custody  from 
the  issues  of  the  king's  manor  or  lordship  of  Wodstoke  and  hamlets  of 
Wotton,  Hamburgh  and  Stonesfeld  and  other  members  of  the  said  manor 
or  lordship  and  hundred  of  Wotton,  with  arrears  from  Michaelmas, 
10  Edward  IV. ;  in  lieu  of  a  like  grant  to  the  said  Richard  by  letters 
patent  dated  10  November,  4  Edward  IV.  surrendered.  By  p.s. 

March  11.  Grant  to  the  king's  kinswoman  Anne,  duchess  of  Buckingham,  late  the 
Westminster,  wife  of  Walter  Blount,  knight,  late  lord  of  Mouutjoy,  of  the  manor  of 


15  EDWARD  IV.— Part  I. 


611 


1475.  Membrane  14 — cont. 

Chulnieylegb,  the  borough  of  Chulmeylegh,  the  lordship  and  manor  of 
Holdeham  and  the  borough  of  Twybearc  with  their  members,  co.  Devon, 
and  6  marks  6*.  Sd.  of  rent  of  those  8  marks  of  yearly  rent  from  a 
moiety  of  the  town  of  Thurveston,  co.  Derby,  parcel  of  an  annuity  of 
20  marks  which  the  king  by  letters  patent  lately  granted  to  the  said 
Walter  and  the  heirs  male  of  his  body,  to  hold  for  her  life  in  dower  as 
parcel  of  the  possessions  of  the  said  Walter  with  knight's  fees,  advowsons, 
courts,  leets,  views  of  frank-pledge,  liberties,  franchises  and  all  other 
profits,  and  all  issues  of  the  above  from  the  time  of  the  death  of  the  said 
Walter.  By  p.s. 

March  20.  General  pardon  to  William  Radclyff,  esquire,  son  of  William  RadclyfF, 
AVestminstcr.  of  all  offences  committed  by  him  before  15  February.  By  p.s. 

March  14.      Pardon  to  Laurence,  bishop  of  Durham,  for  the  manufacture  by  his 
Westmiuster.  moneyers  of  money  not  of  true  alloy  or  weight,  as  he  has  declared  that  this 
was  done  without  his  knowledge.  By  K. 


Membrane  13. 

March  25.  Grant  to  Galiard  do  Durford,  lord  of  Duras,  and  the  heirs  male  of  his 
Westminster,  body,  for  his  good  services  to  the  king  in  England  and  beyond  the  seas,  of 
the  manors  of  Shelford,  Stokebardolf  and  Gcdiyng  and  all  lands,  rents, 
reversions  and  services  pertaining  to  them  in  the  counties  of  Nottingham, 
Derby  and  Lincoln  witii  advowsons,  knights'  fees,  courts,  markets,  fairs, 
leets,  views  of  frank-pledge  and  other  cominoditie;-,  in  the  king's  hands  by 
reason  of  an  act  of  forfeiture  in  Parliament,  4  November,  1  Edward  IV.  to 
hold  by  the  services  of  as  many  knights'  fees  and  as  many  otiier  rents  and 
seivices  as  they  were  held  by  before  4  March,  1  Edward  IV.  with  all 
issues  from  INIichaelmas,  10  Eilward  IV.  By  p.s. 

March  29.  Grant  to  William  John,  subject  of  the  duke  of  Brittany  and  lieutenant  of 
Westminster.  Croysik  in  Brittany,  of  80/.  from  the  first  moneys  arising  from  tiie  customs 
and  subsidies  in  the  ports  of  Exeter  and  Dertmontli,  in  addition  to  100/. 
granted  to  him  in  August  last  from  the  said  customs  and  subsidies,  in  full 
recompense  of  a  ship  of  his  called  la  Marie  of  Garrande  nnd  certain  goods 
and  merchandise  reaching  tlie  sum  of  500  crowns,  captured  when  coming 
to  the  realm  by  divers  persons  of  Fowcy  contrary  to  tbo  friendship 
between  the  king  and  the  Siid  duke.  By  K. 

March  28.  Commission  to  Thomas  Candour,  doctor  of  decrees,  Michael  CarTancU, 
Westminster,  bachelor  in  either  law,  Robert  Basset  and  Edmund  Shaa,  citizens  and 
aldermen  of  London,  to  hear  and  determine  an  appenl  by  Robert  Parker, 
citizen  and  draper  of  London,  who  states  that  whereas  he  and  John  Kirkcby, 
citizen  and  late  draper  of  London,  made  an  account  of  and  came  to  an 
agreement  about  certain  mereiiandise  and  the  matter  was  ended  never- 
theless the  said  John  afterwards  brought  him  before  Master  John  Aleyn, 
doctor  of  laws,  lieutenant  or  commissary  of  the  king's  brother  Kichard, 
duke  of  Gloucester,  constable  of  I^ngland,  in  tlio  court  of  the  con- 
sl-!ibl(!ship,  concerning  the  pretended  detention  of  200/.  due  to  the  said  John 
Kirkeby  on  this  account,  and  the  said  Jolni  Aleyn,  being  cliosen  as 
arbiter  by  them  both,  condemned  the  said  Robert  to  the  said  John 
Kirkeby  without  proof  in  the  sum  of  85/.  by  his  award  and  refu.sod  to  liear 
tlie  said  Robert  and  publicly  said  that  he  wi.shcd  to  condemn  him  in  the 
sum  of  330/.  and  Michael  Denyse,  gentleman,  and  John  Deyhis  pledges  in 
200/.  and  that  ho  had  received  them  in  tribunal  in  the  White  Hail  within 
the  palace  of  Westminster  on  20  May,  14  Edward  IV.  allhougli  he  had  not 
dono  so  nor  had  they  pledged  themselves  for  the  said  Robert. 


512 


CALENDAR  OF  PATENT  ROLLS. 


1475.  Membrane  13 — cont. 

April  14.       General  pardon  to  Hugh  Mulle  late  of  London,  '  gentilmau,'  alias  Hugh 
Westminster.  Mille  late  of  Harescombe,  co.  Gloucester,  alias  late  of  Bristol,  of  all  offences 
committed  by  him  before  4  April.  By  p.s. 

April  19.  Whereas  William,  the  abbot,  and  the  convent  of  the  exempt  monastery  of 
Westminster.  St.  Albans  by  a  charter  dated  the  Annunciation  last  granted  to  Master 
William  Dudley,  dean  of  the  chapel  of  the  household,  Master  John 
Gunthorpe,  dean  of  the  cathedral  church  of  Wells,  and  Master  William 
Hatclif,  the  king's  secretary,  and  their  heirs  and  assigns  all  their  tenement 
%vith  a  quayadjoiningwith  all  commodities,  easements  and  other  appurtenances 
and  rights  which  they  had  of  the  grant  of  Ralph  Boteler,  knight,  late  lord  of 
Sudeley,  and  John  Hende  the  younger,  esquire,  situated  in  the  lane  callcil 
'  Wyndegoselane  '  in  the  parish  of  All  Hallows  at  the  Hay  {ad  Fenum), 
London,  between  the  tenement  late  of  Bartholomew  Frj  stlyng  on  the  cast, 
the  quay  called  '  Esterlyngeshalle'  on  the  west,  the  river  Thames'on  the  south 
and  the  tenement  late  of  Ralph  Blakeneye  on  the  north,  and  afterwards  the 
said  William,  John  and  William  by  a  charter  enrolled  in  Chancery  dated  17 
April  last  granted  the  same  to  the  king ;  the  king  hereby  grants  to  the  said 
abbot  and  convent  in  recom pence  a  yearly  rent  of  20  marks  from  his  manor 
of  Busshey,  co.  Hertford,  from  1  October  last  until  other  lands  to  that 
value  shall  be  granted  to  them.  By  K. 


Membrane  12. 

March  7.  Exemplification,  at  the  request  of  Thomas  Dauyell,  esquire,  of  the  tenours 
Westminster,  of  the  following : — 

1.  A  petition  (English)  of  the  said  Thomas  in  the  Parliament  summoned 

at  Westminster  on  6  October,  12  Edward  IV.  and  continued  by 
divers  prorogations  to  6  June,  14  Edward  IV.  that  whereas  by  an 
act  in  the  Parliament  at  Westminster,  4  November,  1  Edward  IV.  it 
was  ordained  that  he  by  the  name  of  Thomas  Danyell  late  of  Risyng, 
CO.  Norfolk,  esquire,  should  be  attainted  of  high  treason  and  forfeit 
all  liis  possessions,  the  king  should  ordain  that  this  act  shall  be  void 
and  of  no  force  against  him  and  he  shall  have  his  possessions  again, 
saving  to  the  king's  liege  people  their  rights,  and  all  letters  patent 
made  by  reason  of  this  act  of  any  of  the  premises  should  be  void,  and 
no  person  who  shall  have  taken  any  issues  of  the  premises  before 
12  July,  14  Edward  IV.  and  after  4  March,  1  Edward  IV.  shall  be 
chargeable  to  the  said  Thomas,  provided  that  no  persons  attainted 
take  any  benefit  by  this  present  act  but  the  said  Thomas  and  his 
heirs  and  feoffees,  and  that  this  shall  not  be  prejudicial  to  the  dean 
and  canons  of  St.  Stephen's,  Westminster. 

2.  The  assent  to  the  same  by  the  commons  : — A  cest  bille  les  communez 

sont  assentuz. 

3.  The  answer  of  the  king : — Soil  fait  come  il  est  desire. 

[Rolls  of  Parliament,  VI.  101.] 

April  26.       Pardon  to  John,  abbot  of  the  monastery  of  St.  Peter,  Westminster, 
Westminster,  ordinary  of  that  place,  for  the  escape  of  Richard  Johnson  late  of  Tourehill, 
CO.  Middlesex,  '  shipmau,  alias  late  of  the  parts  of  Flanders,  '  marioner,' 
from  his  custody.  By  p.s. 

April  25.  Grant  to  the  king's  servant  Master  Dominic  de  Serego,  physician  to 
Westminster,  the  king  and  his  consort,  of  the  sum  of  66/,  13a\  4c?.  from  the  customs  and 
subsidies  of  all  merchandise  coming  in  galleys  of  Venice  to  the  port  of 
London,  as  100/.  remain  unpaid  to  him,  the  arrears  for  2\  years  of  the 
annuity  of  40/.  which  the  king  granted  to  him  during  pleasure  at  the  hands 
of  the  treasurer  and  chamberlains  of  the  Exchequer  by  letters  patent  dated 
12  December,  7  Edward  IV.  By  p.s. 


15  EDWARD  IV.— Part  I. 


513 


1475.  Membrane  12 — cont. 

April  14.  Appointment  of  Walter  Barsonhowson  as  master  finer,  purger  and  divider 
Westmingter,  of  'les  evvres  '  and  the  metals  of  four  mines  of  the  king  in  the  north,  viz., 
the  mine  of  Blauncheland,  co.  Northumberland,  the  mine  of  Fleccheroos  in 
Alston  More,  the  mine  of  Keswyk,  co.  Cumberland,  and  the  mine  of  copper 
by  Richemond,  co.  York,  so  long  as  he  shall  occupy  himself  in  the  mines, 
with  such  fees  as  may  be  agreed  upon  between  him  and  the  king's  brother 
Richard,  duke  of  Gloucester,  the  king's  kinsman  Henry,  earl  of  North- 
umberland, William  Goderswyk,  merchant,  and  John  Marshal,  mercer,  to 
whom  the  king  by  letters  patent  granted  the  said  mines,  from  the  issues  of 
the  mines,  provided  that  he  take  and  instruct  as  many  apprentices  as  may 
seem  fit  to  the  said  duke,  earl,  William  and  John. 

May  1.  Licence  for  the  king's  brother  George,  duke  of  Clarence,  who  is  going  to 
Westminster,  cross  the  sea  with  the  king  on  his  voyage  and  service,  to  enfeoff  Thomas 
Lymeryk,  Thomas  Lygon,  Daniel  Sheldon,  and  John  Jakeraan  of  the 
manors  of  Kynfare  and  Stourton,  co.  Stafford,  held  in  chief,  without  fine  or 
fee,  according  to  the  form  of  an  act  in  the  Parliament  at  Westminster, 
6  October,  12  Edward  IV. 


Membrane  11. 

April  12.       Grant  for  life  to  John  Hennawde  of  the  office  of  keeper  of  the  gaol  of  the 

Westminster,  king's  cnstle  of  Gildeford,  co.  Surrey,  receiving  the  accu.stomed  foes  from 
the  issues  of  the  counties  of  Cambridge  and  Huntingdon,  in  lieu  of  a  grant 
to  the  king's  servant  Richard  Patyne  by  letters  patent  dated  16  October, 
2  Edward  IV.  surrendered.  By  p.s. 

March  13.  Exemplification,  at  the  request  of  James,  earl  of  Douglas,  of  the  tenours 
Westminster,  of  the  following  : — ^ 

1.  An  Act  (English)  in  the  Parliament  summoned  at  Westmin.<=ter  on  (> 

October,  12  Edward  IV.  and  continued  by  divers  prorogations  to 
23  January,  14  Edward  IV.  ordaining  that  whereas  tiie  king  by 
letters  patent  dated  14  February,  1  Edward  IV.  granted  for  liie  to 
the  snid  earl  divers  sums  yearly  from  the  counties  of  Nottingham, 
Derby,  Lincoln,  Norfolk,  Suffolk,  Stafford,  Warwick,  Leicester,  and 
Devon  and  by  other  letters  patent  dated  27  March,  5  Edward  IV. 
granted  to  him  for  life  divers  sums  from  customs  and  subsidies  in 
the  ports  of  London,  Sntlianipton,  Boston  and  Ipjieswiclie,  and  the 
said  carl  intends  to  pass  with  tlie  king  to  the  parts  of  France  and  (he 
duchy  cf  Normandy  there  to  do  him  service  of  war,  if  the  said 
earl  die  within  three  years  of  his  departing  out  of  the  realm  his 
executors  and  administrators  shall  receive  200/.  from  the  above  in 
each  of  the  three  years  following  his  death,  with  preferment  of 
payment,  and  that  this  t^hall  not  be  projudicial  to  the  captain  or 
lieutenant  ol' the  town  and  castle  of  Culais  and  the  marches  there, 
the  captains  of  the  tower  of  liysbank  and  the  c.istles  of  Guysnes  and 
Hamnies,  the  soldiers  of  the  above,  the  judges  of  cither  Bench,  the 
justices  of  assize,  the  serjcants  at  law,  the  king's  attorney  or  the 
mayor  and  fellowship  of  merchants  of  the  staple  of  Calais  or  to  any 
grant  to  Henry,  duke  of  Buckingham. 

2.  The   assent  of  the  commons: — A  cesl   bille  lez  communez  son 

asscnluz. 

3.  The  answer  of  the  king: — Lc  Boy  levoet.    {Rolls  of  Parliament, 

VI.  132.] 

April  IG.       Grant  to  Robert  Michelson  of  80/.  from  the  first  mono^ys  arising  from 
Westniiuster.  the  customs  and  subsidies  in  the  port  of  Suthampton  in  p:irt  payment  of 
his  ransom  from  the  French,  in  lieu  of  a  grant  to  him  of  60/.  from  tiio 


y  96186. 


CALENDAR  OF  PATENT  ROLLS. 


1475. 


April  13. 
Westminster. 


May  18. 

Westminster. 


Membrane  lid — conf. 
customs  and  subsidies  in  the  port  of  Kyngeston  on  Hull  by  letters  patent 
dated  13  February,  12  Edward  IV.  surrendered  because  on  account  of 
prior  grants  ho  can  obtain  no  payment.  By  p.s. 

Grant  for  life  to  the  king's  servitor  William  Evyngton,  esquii'e,  Thomas 
Walker  of  the  city  of  London,  '  grocer,' and  William  Harlot  t  of  the  same 
*  draper,'  of  a  toft  or  vacant  plot  of  land  in  the  parish  of  St.  Benet 
Shorhogge,  London,  between  the  tenement  late  of  Robert  Sewall,  '  grocer,' 
on  the  east  and  the  tenement  pertaining  to  the  dean  and  chapter  of  the 
cathedral  church  of  St.  Paul,  London,  on  the  west  and  extending  from  the 
highway  there  towards  the  north  to  the  church  of  St.  Benet  aforesaid  and 
a  plot  of  land  pertaining  to  the  same  church  towards  the  south,  on  which 
two  ruinous  messuages  were  lately  built,  which  have  been  taken  away,  and 
a  garden  in  Martelane  in  the  parish  of  All  Hallows  Berkyng,  London, 
between  the  rectory  and  cemetery  of  the  church  of  All  Hallows,  Stanynges, 
and  the  tenement  of  the  abbot  and  convent  of  St.  Mary  Graces  by  the 
Tower  on  the  north  and  the  tenement  of  William  Jenkynson  on  the  south 
and  extending  from  the  highway  of  Martlane  aforesaid  towards  the  east  to 
the  tenement  of  the  said  William  Heriott  towards  the  west,  on  which  two 
ruinous  cottages  were  lately  built,  which  have  been  taken  away,  which  toft 
and  garden  John  Rypon,  late  yeoman  harbinger  of  the  household  of  the  late 
king,  had  of  the  grant  of  the  said  late  king  by  letters  patent  and  which 
the  king  lately  granted  for  life  to  Thomas  Cornysshe,  esquire,  and  which 
are  now  in  his  hands  by  reason  of  an  act  of  resumption  in  the  Parliament 
at  Westminster.  By  p.s. 

JNlandate  to  all  bailiffs  and  others  to  permit  John  Wynshelys,  born  at 
Nesbit  in  Scotland,  dwelling  at  Hicchyn,  co.  Hertford,  who  has  taken  an 
oath  of  fealty,  to  inhabit  the  realm  peaceably  and  enjoy  his  goods. 


3lEi\IBRANE  10. 

April  28.       Grant  for  life  to  John  Clerk  of  the  office  of  chafe-wax  in  the  Chancery 
Westminster,  from  Michaelmas,  13  Edward  IV.  from  which  time  he  has  occupied  the 
office,  receiving  wages  of  2^d.  daily  from  the  issues  of  the  hanaper  with  all 
other  profits.  By  K. 

April  23.  Licence  for  Thomas  Gray,  son  of  the  king's  consort  Elizabeth,  queen  of 
Westminster,  E  ngland,  and  Cicely  his  wife,  daughter  and  heiress  of  William,  late  lord 
of  Ilarington,  tenant  in  chief,  and  kinswoman  and  heiress  of  William 
Bonevile,  knight,  late  lord  Bonevile,  tenant  in  chief,  viz.  daughter  of  his 
son  William,  to  enter  freely  into  all  castles,  lordships,  manors,  lands  and 
other  possessions  within  the  realm  of  which  the  said  lords  Harington  and 
Bonevile  were  seised  and  which  should  descend  to  the  said  Cicely  on  their 
deaths,  with  all  issues  received  in  the  mean  time.  By  p.s. 

May  3.         Pardon  to  William  Colyngbourne,  esquire,  late  sheriff  of  Wilts,  of  all 
Westminster,  offences  committed  by  him  and  all  issues  forfeit,  fines,  amercements,  debts, 
and  arrears  due  from  him  to  the  king  by  reason  of  his  office.  By  p.s. 

May  12,         Appointment  of  Thomas  Thomson,  '  aresmaker,'  to  take  workmen 
v\''estminster.  called  '  tapestre  wevers  '  for  the  king's  Avorks  of  cloth  called  '  tapettis  ' 
to  be  made  for  horses  called  '  somerhors'  and  '  cliariott  hors.' 

May  3.  Grant  during  minority  to  Katharine  late  the  wife  of  Waller  Wretill, 
Westminster,  deceased,  Thomas  Ursewyk,  knight,  chief  baron  of  the  Exchequer, 
Humphrey  Starky  and  William  Essex  of  the  custody  of  John  Wretill  son 
and  heir  of  the  said  Walter  and  kinsman  and  heir  of  Elizabeth  late  the 
wife  of  Ralpli  Botiller,  knight,  deceased,  tenant  in  chief,  viz.  son  of  Joan 
daughter  of  her  son  John,  and  the  marriage  of  the  said  heir  without 


15  EDWARD  IV.— Part  I. 


515 


1475.  Membrane  10 — cont. 

disparagement  from  the  death  of  the  said  Elizabeth,  and  so  from  heir  to 
heir.  By  p.s. 

May  14.        Appointment  of  Robert  Chattok,  citizen  and  fishmonger  of  London,  and 
Westminster.  Robert  Talbott  of  London,  '  mercer,'  to  take  wheat,  wine,  ale,  beeves, 
muttons,  sea-fish  and  fresh-water  fish  and  other  victuals  for  the  king's  army 
soon  to  be  sent  to  France  for  the  recovery  of  that  realm,  and  carriage  for 
the  same. 

Appointment  of  William  Brambyll  and  John  Kyryell  to  take  mariners 
for  a  ship  called  la  FaweJion  for  the  conduct  of  an  armed  force  which  the 
king  has  ordered  to  go  with  him  to  France  for  the  recovery  of  that  realm. 

Licence  for  John  Harecourt,  esquire,  son  and  heir  of  Robert  Harecourt, 
knight,  deceased,  who  is  going  to  cross  the  sea  with  the  king  on  his  voyage 
and  service,  to  enfeoff  William  Moton,  John  Athertou,  Richard  Brydde,  clerk, 
Thomas  Bette  and  Robert  Secole  of  the  manor  of  Stanton  Harecourt, 
CO.  Oxford,  held  in  chief  by  kuight-service,  without  fine  or  fee,  according 
to  the  form  of  an  act  in  the  Parliament  at  Westminster,  6  October, 
12  Edward  IV. 


May  15. 
Westminster. 

May  12. 
Westminster. 


Membrane  9. 

May  1.  Grant  to  Thomas  Stanley  of  Stanley,  knight,  of  full  power  and  authority 
Westminster,  by  liimself  or  sufficient  deputies  to  admit  to  the  king's  grace  and  i)romise 
pardon  under  the  great  seal  to  all  persons  who  have  stirred  up  insurrections 
in  divers  parts  of  the  county  of  Lancaster  and  now  are  willing  to  submit 
and  take  oath  that  they  will  not  offend  again,  with  the  exception  of  John 
Shanke,  Richard  Merston,  John  Barret,  John  Jakson  and  Peter  de  Soreby 
of  the  parish  of  Kyrkhara,  co.  Lancaster,  Richard  Shingleton,  Williiim 
Wilkokson,  Robert  Whetsyd,  William  Whetsyd  and  Robert  Croonc  of  tl)e 
parish  of  Pulton,  John  Hoggekynson  and  John  Johnson  of  the  parish  of 
St.  Michael,  John  Clerkson  of  Corney,  John  Apolc,  '  yoman  '  alius  '  hus- 
bondman,'  Roger  Edwardson  and  John  Hoggekynson  of  Craven,  co.  York, 
Nicholas  Filzakelly,  '  gcntilman,'  Nicholas  Drury,  'yoman,'  Jobn  Fluwode, 
*  husbondrnan,'  John  Torrcbak,  '  husbondman,'  James  Rossisson,  'husbond- 
man,' John  Thomelynson,  '  husbondnian,'  Thomas  Riland,  '  luisbondin.'in,' 
Robert  Amoore,  '  husbondman,'  John  Layland,  'husbondrnan,'  .L-imes 
Norrys  and  William  Rcdgate,  '  yomen.'  By  K. 

March  17.       Grant  for  life  to  the  king's  servitor  Ralph  Asshcton,  esquire,  of  the 
Westminster,  office  of  the  custody  of  the  king's  jjurk  of  Okie  Wyndosore,  co.  Berks,  and 
the  manor  and  stank  within  the  same,  with  '  le  wyndefall '  and  '  brusyng' 
within  the  park,  from  6  March,  14  Edward  IV.  with  the  accustomed  fees 
from  the  issues  of  the  castle  of  Wyndesore  and  all  other  profits.        By  p.s. 

May  3.  Grant  to  Robert  Chambcrleyn,  knight,  who  is  .shortly  going  witli  the 
Westminster,  king  to  France,  and  Elizabeth  his  wife  that  they  may  obtain  writs  of 
covenant  in  Chancery  concerning  the  manors  of  Pebmersshc,  Dngwortli, 
Poley,  Peytonhall,  Great  Hony,  Pontys,  Bonettys  and  Chcveryshail  alius 
Passefcld  Chc\  ers  and  the  advowsons  of  the  churches  of  Pebnicrsshe  iind 
Heney,  co.  Essex,  the  manors  of  Little  Elyngham,  ]\Ioneux  and  Kirkhall 
in  Rokelond  and  Rokclond  Toftcs  and  the  advowsons  of  the  ciiurciios  of 
Little  Elyngham  and  All  Saints,  Kirkhall  in  Rokelond,  co.  Norfolk,  the 
manors  of  Netherhall  in  Little  Waldyngfeid  and  Ciiirchofordhall  in  Capell 
and  the  advowson  of  the  church  of  Capell,  co.  Suffolk,  and  the  manor  of 
Kyngeston  and  the  advowson  of  the  church  of  Kyngcston,  co.  Cambiidge, 
without  fine  or  fee  for  the  fulfilment  of  their  last  will.  By  K. 

April.  29.  Appointment,  during  pleasure,  of  Thomas  Yong  as  ouc  of  the  justices  of 
Westminster,  the  King's  Bench,  receiving  the  accustomed  fees.  V>y  K. 

K  K  2 


5i6 


CALENDAR  OF  PATENT  ROLLS. 


1475.  Membrane  9 — cont. 

May  2.  Graut  for  life  to  the  king's  clerk  Master  John  Morton  of  the  office  of 
Westminster,  keeper  of  the  rolls,  books  and  records  of  Chancery  and  the  custody  of  the 
House  or  hospital  of  Converts,  appointed  of  old  by  the  king's  progenitors 
for  the  habitation  of  the  said  keeper,  witli  all  rights  pertaining  to  tile  office 
and  house,  receiving  the  accustomed  fees ;  in  lieu  of  a  like  grant  to  him  by 
letters  patent  dated  16  March,  12  Edward  IV.  surrendered.  By  K. 

April  20.  Grant  for  life  to  the  king's  servant  William  Adam,  one  of  the  yeomen  of 
Westmiuster.  the  chamber,  of  all  the  tenements  within  the  city  of  York  -which  lately 
pertained  to  Edmund  Fysshe,  rebel  and  traitor,  and  were  afterwards 
granted  to  a  servant  of  the  marquess  Mountague  and  are  now  in  the  king's 
hands  by  reason  of  an  act  of  resumption  in  the  last  Parliament  at 
Westminster  and  do  not  exceed  the  yearly  value  of  10  marks.  By  p.s. 

£May  8.         Appointment  of  Stephen  Frynde  to  take  wheat,  beeves,  muttons,  sea- fish 
Westminster,  and  fresh-Avater  fish  and  all  victuals  for  the  king's  army  soon  to  be  sent  to 
France  for  the  recovery  of  that  I'ealm,  and  carriage  for  the  same. 

By  bill  of  the  treasurer  of  the  king's  wars. 

May  C.  General  pardon  to  John  Parker  of  Colcestre,  co.  Essex,  '  yoman,'  of  all 
Westminster.  ofFences  committed  by  him  before  29  April  last.  By  p.s. 

May  8.         Protection  with  clause  volumus,  for  one  year,  for  Richard  Penketh  of 
Westioinster.  the  city  of  London,  '  merchante,'  going  on  the  king's  service  to  Ireland  in 
the  company  of  the  king's  brother  George,  duke  of  Clarence,  lieutenant  of 
Ireland,  on  the  safe  custody,  defence  and  victualling  of  that  land. 

By  bill  of  p.s. 

May  9.  Grant  to  Henry  Grey,  knight,  for  his  good  service  to  the  king  in  dirers 
Westminster,  battles  and  because  he  is  going  with  the  king  to  France  on  his  service,  of 
80/.  forfeited  to  the  king,  viz.  40/.  by  John  Stevenson  of  Freton,  co. 
Norfolk,  'gentilman,'  who  for  finding  security  of  the  peace  towards  the 
king  and  his  people  and  especially  towards  Joan  the  wile  of  Henry  Grey 
was  bound  over  to  appear  before  the  king  in  the  octave  of  Michaelmas  last 
and  being  called  on  the  fourth  day  of  the  plea  did  not  appear,  and  20/.  each 
from  John  Glove  of  Bukkenham  Castell,  co.  Norfolk,  'gentilman,'  and 
John  Wetherby  of  the  same,  '  gentilman,'  to  whom  the  said  John  Stevenson 
was  delivered  to  bail.  By  p.s. 


Membrane  8. 

May  19.  General  pardon  to  John  Petyr  late  of  Strode,  co.  Kent,  *  gentilman,'  alias 
Westminster.  John  Peter,  '  notarie.'  By  K. 

May  20.        Appointment,  during  pleasure,  of  Edmund  Countes  and  William  Felsted 
Westminster,  to  take  wheat,  malt,  beeves,  muttons,  pigs,  soa-fish  and  fresh-water  fish  and 
all  necessaries  for  the  king's  army  scon  to  be  sent  to  France  for  the  recovery 
of  that  realm,  and  carriage  for  the  same. 
May  20.        Pardon  to  John  Howard,  knight,  lord  of  Howard,  late  of  Stoke  by 
VVeEtmimter.  Neloud,  CO.  Suifolk,  late  treasurer  of   the   household,   of   all  offences 
committed  by  him  and  all  fines,  amercements,  issues  forfeit,  debts,  accounts 
and  arrears  due  from  him  to  the  king  by  reason  of  his  office.  By  K. 

May  21.  General  pardon  to  Thomas  Jenkyns  of  the  town  of  Oxford,  tailor,  of  all 
Westminster,  offences  committed  by  him  before  20  May.  By  p.s. 

May  25.  General  pardon  to  Richard  Agodde  alias  Agotte  alias  Acotte  of  Bradley, 
Westminster,  co.  Warv/ick,  '  yoman.'  By  K. 

May  12.        Licence  for  William  Hastynges,  knight,  lord  Hastyngcs,  who  is  going  to 
Westminster,  cross  the  sea  Avith  the  king  on  his  voyage  and  service,  to  grant  the  castle, 
honour,  manor  and  lordship  of  Folkynghara  with  their  members  and  the 
manors  and  lordships  of  Lavyngton  and  Aslakby,  co.  Lincoln,  the  manors 


15  EDWARD  IV.~Paet  I. 


617 


1475.  Membrane  8 — co7it. 

and  lordships  of  Loughborough  and  Shepeshed,  co.  Leicester,  the  manor 
and  lordship  of  Welburn,  a  moiety  of  the  manor  of  Bycar  and  the  manor 
and  lordship  of  Arthorpe,  co.  Lincoln,  the  manor  of  Edelmeton  alias 
Edmondton  called  'Wylbyes'  with  the  appurtenances  in  Tottenham,  co. 
Middlesex,  all  his  pourparty  of  the  honour  called  '  Wynchestre  fee  '  ia 
the  counties  of  Leicester  and  Warwick,  the  manor  and  lordship  of  Bolton 
Percy,  co.  York,  the  manors  of  Birthorpe,  Repynghale,  Sapirton  alian 
Sapurton  and  Ropesley,  co.  Lincoln,  the  advowsons  of  the  churches  of  Walton 
on  le  Wold  and  Cosyngton,  co.  Leicester,  all  his  lands,  rents,  reversions, 
services  and  possessions  in  Folkyngham,  Lavyngton,  Aslakby,  Lougheburgh, 
Shepeshed,  Wolburn,  Bycar,  Arthorpe,  Edehneton,  Bolton  Percy,  Byrthorpe, 
Repynghale,  Sapyrton  and  Ropesley  aforesaid  and  inBarowe  and  Quarndon 
CO.  Leicester,  the  manors  and  lordships  of  Stokedawbcney  and  Sutton  with 
the  advowson  of  the  church  of  Stokedawbcney,  co.  Northampton,  the  honour, 
castle,  manor  and  lordship  of  Beauvoir  alias  Bealvoir  alias  Bellover  with 
the  park  there  and  members  in  Wolsthorpe,  co.  Lincoln,  and  Barkeston, 
Pluingartli,  Redmylde  and  Hardeby,  co.  Leicester,  with  the  advowoon  of 
the  priory  of  Bevour  and  the  advowsons  of  the  churches  of  Hardeby, 
Wolsthorpe  and  Redmylde  and  a  rent  called  *  castelward '  pertaining  to 
the  castle  in  certain  counties  and  all  rights,  the  manor  of  Bottesford  alias 
Bottelesford  with  the  hamlets  of  Normanton  and  Esthorpe  and  the  advowson 
of  the  chiu'ch  of  J?ottesford,  co.  Leicester,  the  manor  of  lladyngton,  co. 
Lincoln,  all  his  lands,  rents,  services,  reversions  and  possessions  in  Stoke- 
dawbcney, Sutton,  Wilbaston,  Assheley,  Bevour,  Wolsthorpe,  Barkeston, 
Pluugarth,  Redmylde,  Hardby,  Bottesford,  Normanton,  Esthorpe  and 
Hadyngton  aforesaid,  a  tenement  called  '  le  Newe  Lino '  in  the  pari.sh  of 
St.  Benet,  Tamystrete,  London,  alias  '  Beaumont  Inne '  in  the  parish  of 
St.  Benet  in  the  ward  of  IJayuardescastell,  London,  the  manor  of  Arnall, 
CO.  Nottingham,  the  manor  of  Lyghfeld,  co.  Rutland,  the  loi'dship,  honou'-, 
manor  or  ra])c  of  Hastynges,  co.  Sussex,  the  manor  of  Neuton  llarecourt, 
CO.  Leicester,  and  the  reversions  of  the  manor  and  lordship  of  Bcaumaner, 
the  manors  of  Barowe  and  Quarndon,  the  manor  and  lordship  of  Whitwyk 
with  their  members,  the  manors  and  lordships  of  Roteby,  Bocliaston, 
Ncucote,  llokclscote,  Donyngton  and  Merkefeld  and  the  manor  of 
WhytyngtOD,  co.  Leicester,  and  the  manor  and  lordship  of  Ilckyngton, 
CO.  Lincoln,  which  Katharine,  duchess  of  Norfolk,  holds  for  life  in  dower 
or  otherwise,  with  knights'  fees,  advowsons,  wards,  marriages,  reliefs, 
escheats,  courts,  Icet!«,  views  of  frank-pledge,  parks,  woods,  warrens, 
chaces,  fairs,  marshes,  waters,  fisheries  and  all  profits,  commodities,  liberties, 
franchises  and  riglits,  held  in  chief,  to  the  king's  kinsmen  Thomas,  cardinal 
archbishop  of  Canterbury  and  legate  of  the  apostolic  see,  and  George, 
archbishop  of  York,  and  Thomas  Rotheram,  bishop  of  Lincoln,  the  chan- 
cellor, John  Morton,  king's  clerk,  keeper  of  the  rolls  of  Chancery,  Thomas 
Burgli,  knight,  Thomas  Billyng,  chief  justice  of  tlie  King's  Bench,  Thomas 
Bryan,  chief  justice  of  the  Common  Bench,  Richard  Ncell,  one  of  the  justices 
of  the  same  Bench,  John  Gunthorpe,  the  king's  almoner,  John  Donne, 
knight,  Richard  Pygot,  scrjeaiit  at  law,  Richard  Fouler,  chancellor  of  the 
duchy  of  Lancaster,  William  PLisc,  the  king's  attorney,  William  Moton, 
esquire,  William  Grymmesby,  esquire,  William  Chauntry,  archdeacon  of 
Derby,  William  Eland,  John  Eltonhed,  Robert  Staunton  and  Thomas 
Kebecll  and  their  heirs  without  fine  or  fee  according  to  the  form  of  an  act 
in  the  Parliament  at  Westminster,  6  October,  i2  Edward  IV. 

Membrane  7. 

May  1.  Licence  for  the  king's  brother  George,  duke  of  Clarence,  who  is  going  to 
Westmiuster.  cross  the  sea  with  the  king  on  his  voyage  and  service,  to  enfeoft"  Roger 


518 


CALENDAR  OF  PATENT  ROLLS. 


1475.  Membrane  7 — cont. 

Tocotes,  knight,  Thomas  Hawkyns,  clerk,  John  Barneby,  clerk,  Robert 
Sheffeld  and  Thomas  Lygon  of  the  manors  and  lordships  of  Sampford 
Courteney,  Torbrian  and  Slappeton,  co.  Devon,  Hasilbere  and  Iwarne 
Courteney  alias  Yewarne  Courteney,  co.  Dorset,  and  Kyngeston  by 
Ilchestre,  co.  Somerset,  with  knight  fees,  advowsons,  leets,  courts,  views 
of  frank-pledge,  fairs,  markets,  warrens,  fisheries,  free  customs,  rights,  waifs, 
strays,  chattels  of  felons  and  fugitives,  escheats,  liberties,  franchises,  profits 
and  commodities,  held  in  chief  by  knight  service,  without  fine  or  fee 
according  to  the  form  of  an  act  in  the  Parliament  of  Westminster, 
6  October,  12  Edward  IV. 

May  27.         General  pardon  to  Richard  Tomma  of  Bodmyn,  co.  Cornwall,  '  carier, 
Westminster,  alias  Richard  Chepman,  '  laborer.  By  p.s. 

May  23.  Grant  to  Thomas  Burgh,  knight  and  the  heirs  male  of  his  body  of  the 
Westmiuster.  reversion  on  the  death  of  Katharine,  duchess  of  Norfolk,  of  the  manors  of 
Lynwode,  Thureswey,  Grymesthorpe,  Edenham,  Aylesthorpe  and  South- 
orpe  with  their  members,  all  the  lands  and  hereditaments  called  '  Beaumont 
rent '  alias  '  Beaumont  fee '  in  the  city  of  Lincoln,  and  all  the  lands,  i-ents, 
reversions  and  services  in  Lynwode,  Thureswey,  Grymesthorpe,  Edenham, 
Aylesthorpe  and  Southorpe,  co.  Lincoln,  which  she  holds  for  life,  to  hold 
with  knights'  fees,  advowsons,  wards,  marriages,  reliefs,  escheats,  courts, 
views  of  frank-pledge,  parks,  warrens,  fairs,  markets,  liberties,  franchises, 
profits  and  commodities  by  the  services  of  as  many  knight's  fees  and  as 
many  other  rents  and  services  as  they  were  held  by  before  4  March, 
1  Edward  IV.  By  K. 

May  5.  Licence  for  the  abbess  and  convent  of  the  monastery  of  St.  Edith,  Wilton, 
Westminster,  co.  Wilts,  which  is  of  the  foundation  of  the  king's  progenitors  and  of  the 
kings'  patronage,  to  grant  the  advowson  or  patronage  of  the  prebend  of 
Chalk,  CO.  Wilts,  to  the  provost  and  scholars  of  the  royal  college  of 
St.  Mary  and  St.  Nicholas,  Cambridge,  in  frank  almoin,  and  for  the  latter  to 
appropriate  the  prebend  in  mortmain  in  augmentation  of  their  sustenance, 
provided  that  the  vicarage  of  the  church  of  the  prebend  be  ;sufficiently 
endowed  and  a  competent  sum  of  money  be  distributed  yearly  among  the 
poor  parishoners  of  the  church  according  to  the  ordinance  of  the  diocesan 
of  the  place.  By  K, 

May  22.        Grant  for  life  to  Thomas  Yotton  of  York  of  the  office  of  clerk  for 
Westmiuster.  receiving  recognizances  of  debts  at  York  according  to  the  form  of  the 
statute  of  merchants  at  Acton  Burnell  and  the  custody  of  the  lesser  piece 
of  the  seal  for  the  same,  void  by  the  deaths  of  John  Shirwode,  with  the 
accustomed  fees.  By  K. 

May  20.  Letters  of  denization  for  Ciprian  de  Furnariis,  esquire  of  the  household, 
Westminster,  born  in  Genoa.  By  K. 

May  31.        Grant  for  life  to  Nicholas  Fitzherbert,  esquire,  in  consideration  of  his 
Westminster,  expenses  in  the  king's  service,  of  a  tun  of  red  wine  yearly  from  Midsummer 
last  from  the  king's  prises  of  Avines  in  the  port  of  London  at  the  hands 
of  the  chief  butler  of  England  or  his  deputy.  By  p.s. 


Membrane  6. 

May  5.  Licence  for  William,  bishop  of  Ely,  John  Warkwortli,  clerk,  William 
Westminster.  Townesende,  clerk,  Geolfrey  Spryng,  esquire,  and  John  Brewode  to  found 
a  fraternity  or  perpetual  gild  of  an  alderman  and  two  deans  and  persons 
ecclesiastical  or  secular  and  other  persons  of  either  sex  wishing  to  be  of  the 
fraternity  in  the  parish  church  of  St.  Leonard  the  Abbot,  Dounham,|in  the 
Isle  of  Ely,  co.  Cambridge,  to  be  called  the  fraternity  or  gild  of  St.  Mary  de  la 


15  EDWA.RD  IV.— Part  I. 


519 


1475.  Membrane  6 — cont. 

Porclie  and  St.  Leonard,  of  the  cliurcli  of  Dounham.  The  alderman,  deans, 
brethren  and  sisters  shall  augment  the  fraternity  whenever  they  think  lit  and 
every  year  at  the  Assumption  they  shall  elect  from  themselves  an  alderman 
and  two  deans  for  the  business  and  governance  of  the  fraternity,  and  they  shall 
form  a  corporate  body  and  shall  have  perpetual  succession  and  a  common  seal 
and  power  of  pleading  and  being  impleaded  and  of  making  ordinances  for  the 
governance  of  the  fraternity.  And  grant  to  them  of  licence  to  acquire  in 
mortmain  lands,  rents,  annuities  and  possessions,  not  held  in  chief,  to  the 
value  of  10  marks  yearly,  for  the  sustenance  of  a  ciiaplain  to  celebrate  divine 
service  daily  in  the  said  church  for  the  good  estate  of  the  king  and  his 
consort  Elizabeth,  queen  of  England,  and  tho  said  founders  and  the  brethren 
and  sisters  of  the  gild  and  for  their  souls  after  death  and  for  the 
performance  of  other  works.  By  p.s.  and  for  201.  paid  in  the  hanapcv. 

May  10.        Presentation  of  Robert  Wright,  chaplain,  to  the'parish  church  of  Chepstede, 

Westminster,  in  the  diocese  of  Winchester. 

May  6.         General   pardon   to   John  Wotton   late    of    Plyinmoutli,  co.  Devon, 
Westminster,    cordewaner,'  alias  late  of  Tavestoke,  co.  Devon,  alias  late  of  London, 
esquire,  of  all  offences  committed  by  him  before  8  April  last.  By  p.s. 

April  29.  Grant  to  the  merchants  of  Almain  of  the  confederation  of  the  Teutonic 
Wcstiuinster.  Hanze,  who  have  the  house  in  the  city  of  London  called  Gildehalle 
TheutonicoTum,  and  their  successors  of  all  that  plot  and  tenements  with  a 
quay  and  garden  adjoining  and  houses,  cellars,  soUars  and  otiier  appur- 
tenances in  the  town  of  Bishop's  Leim  which  formerly  were  of  Philip  Wytli, 
burgess  of  the  same  town  of  Lenn,  opposite  the  church  of  St.  Margaret 
between  the  highway  there  on  the  east,  the  common  water  of  the  said  town 
of  Lenn  on  the  west,  a  tenement  sometime  of  John  Lakynghithe  aiul 
afterwards  of  John  Thorysby  on  the  north  and  a  tenement  lute  of  liobert  att 
Lathe  on  the  south,  whicli  the  king  lately  had  of  the  demise  of  John  Tate 
and  Thomas  Bledlowe,  aldermen  of  London.  By  K. 

May  8.  Grant  to  the  king's  servant  Edward  Hardgill,  one  of  the  yeomen  of  the 
Westminster,  crown,  of  the  custody  of  all  lordships,  lands,  rents,  services  and  other 
possessions  late  of  John  Horwode,  deceased,  tenant  in  chief,  during  the 
minority  of  John  his  son  and  heir  and  the  custody  and  marriage  of  tho 
latter  Avithout  disparagement,  and  so  from  heir  to  heir,  finding  a  competent 
sustenance  for  tho  heir  and  supporting  the  houses,  enclosures  and  other 
charges.  By  p.s. 

May  14.  Licence  for  the  appropriation  in  mortmain  by  Thomas,  bishop  of  Lincoln, 
AVestminstcr.  the  chancellor,  of  the  parish  church  of  St.  Mary,  Twyford,  co.  Buckingham, 
of  his  own  collation  and  in  his  own  diocese,  to  the  rector  or  warden  and 
scholars  or  fellows  of  the  college  of  St.  Mary  and  All  Saints  of  Lincoln  in 
Oxford,  provided  that  the  church  bo  endowed  with  a  sufficient  vicarage 
and  a  competent  sum  of  money  be  distributed  yearly  among  the  poor 
parishioners  there.  By  K. 

Licence  for  the  appropriation  in  mortmain  by  William,  the  abbot,  and 
the  convent  of  the  monastery  of  Eynesham,  of  the  order  of  St.  Benedict, 
of  the  parish  church  of  Longecombe,  co.  Oxford,  in  the  diocese  of  Lincoln, 
of  their  own  collation,  to  the  said  rector  and  scholars,  provided  that  the 
church  be  endowed  with  a  suflicicnt  vicarage  and  a  competent  sum  of 
money  be  distributed  yearly  among  the  poor  parishioners  there.         By  K. 

March  14.       Grant  for  life  to  John  Ilawdeles  of  the  office  of  the  custody  of  the 
Westminster,  king's  park  called   'le  More  pjirko,'  co.  Hertford,  with  wages  of  2d.  daily 
from  the  issues  of  the  king's  manor  and  lordship  of  More  and  all  otlier 
profits  from  Michaelmas  last.  By  p.s. 


520 


CALENDAR  OF  PATENT  ROLLS. 


2^475,  3IEMBRANE  5. 

March  13.  Licence  for  Edward  Grey,  knight,  lord  of  Lisle,  and  Elizabeth  his  wife, 
Westminster,  sister  and  heiress  of  Margaret  Veer,  late  wife  of  George  Veer,  knight, 
to  enter  freely  into  all  castles,  manors,  lands  and  other  possessions  in 
England,  Wales,  the  marches  of  Wales  and  the  lordship  of  Ireland  which 
should  descend  to  the  said  Elizabeth  on  tlie  deaths  of  the  said  Margaret 
her  sister  or  Thomas  Talbot,  kniglit,  late  viscount  Lisle,  her  brother, 
whose  heir  she  is,  saving  to  the  king  homage  and  fealty.  By  p.s. 

March  11.  Whereas  Hugh  le  Despencer,  knight,  was  seised  in  his  demesne  as  of 
"Westminster,  fee  of  the  manor  of  Bondeby,  co.  Lincoln,  and  held  it  of  Henry  IV.  in 
chief  by  the  service  of  petty  serjeauty  and  died  without  issue  and  on  his 
death  the  manor  descended  to  Anne  the  wife  of  Edward  Botiller,  knight, 
as  his  sister  and  heir,  and  by  reason  of  her  nonage  it  was  taken  into  the 
hands  of  the  said  late  king,  and  she  died  in  her  nonage  and  on  her  death 
the  manor  descended  to  Edmund  Skern  as  her  kinsman  and  heir,  viz.  son  of 
Henry  son  of  Margaret  daughter  of  Alice  daughter  of  Thomas  son  of 
Matilda  daughter  of  Peter  brother  of  John  father  of  Alice  mother  of  the 
said  Anne,  and  by  an  inquioition  taken  at  Glamfordbrig,  co.  Lincoln,  on 
4  January,  36  Henry  VI.  before  John  Gibthorpe,  then  escheator  in  the 
said  county,  it  was  found  that  the  said  Hugh  held  the  manor  in  his  demesne 
as  of  fee  of  Henry  IV.  in  chief  by  the  service  of  petty  serjeanty  vie.  by 
the  service  of  carrying  a  white  rod  before  the  said  late  king  at  Christmas 
whenever  he  should  be  in  the  said  county,  and  Henry  IV.  took  the  manor 
into  his  own  hands  on  the  death  of  the  said  Hugh  and  it  was  in  the  hands 
of  Henry  VI.  at  the  time  of  the  inquisition  and  the  said  Edmund  was  then 
of  the  age  of  30  years  and  more,  and  the  manor  is  still  in  the  hands  of  the 
present  king  ;  the  king  hereby  grants  licence  for  the  said  Edmund  to  enter 
into  the  said  manor  as  kinsman  and  heir  of  the  said  Anne  and  to  hold  it 
to  himself  and  his  heirs,  saving  to  the  king  fealty  and  other  services. 

ByK. 

March  16.       Appointment  of  the  king's  servant  Ralph  Hastynges,  one  of  the  knights 
Westminster,  of  the  body,  as  steward  of  all  manors,  lordships,  lands,  hereditaments  and 
possessions  late  of  Constance  Stafford  late  the  wife  of  John  Stafford,  carl 
of  Wilts,  tenant  in  chief,  during  the  minority  of  Edward  their  son  and 
heir,  receiving  the  accustomed  fees  with  all  other  profits.  By  p.s. 

March  18.  Grant  to  the  prior  and  convent  of  Lanthony  by  Gloucester,  who  hold 
Westminster,  appropriated  to  their  own  uses  divers  churches  within  the  diocese  of 
Worcester  and  elsewhere,  that  they  shall  not  be  appointed  collectors  of  any 
tenths,  subsidies  or  quota  granted  to  the  king  in  any  diocese  or  place 
within  England  oi'  Wales  or  the  marches  except  in  the  said  diocese  of 
Worcester,  where  they  dwell.  By  p.s. 

April  10.       General  pardon,  at  the  instance  of  the  lord  of  Awdeley,  to  Edward 
Westminster.  Esemanger  late  of   Stourmyster  Marchall,  co.  Dorset,  of  all  offences 
committed  by  him  before  20  February  last.  By  p.s. 

April  18.  General  pardon  to  Robert  Burgham  of  London,  'gentilman.'  By  p.s. 
Westminster. 


3IEMBRANE  4, 

May  23.  Inspeximus  and  confirmation  to  the  men  and  burgesses  of  the  town  of 
Westminster.  Cameleford  in  Cornwall  of  letters  patent  dated  20  April,  21  Richard  II. 

inspecting  and  confiiming  a  charter  dated  at  Westminster,  12  June, 
44  Henry  III.    ICharter  Boll,  44  Ilennj  III.^ 

May  25.  Licence  for  Richard  Corbet,  knight,  avIio  is  going  to  cross  the  sea  with 
Westiuiuster.  the  king  on  his  voyage  and  service,  to  enfeolf  Thomas  Monyngton,  Thomas 


15  EDWARD  IV.— Part  I. 


521 


Membrane  4 — cont. 
Thornys,  Hugh  Stepulton,  Johu  Plowdea  and  Thomas  (!:!owlley  of  the 
manor  of  Morton  Sawbery,  a  third  part  of  the  manor  of  Sipton,  the 
manor  or  reversion  of  Hopton,  Fyttys,  Eton  Constantyne,  co.  Salop,  a 
moiety  or  reversion  of  a  moiety  of  tlie  manor  of  Rycardiscastell,  the  manor 
or  reversion  of  Staunton,  the  manor  of  Beverley  and  Hurtesley,  co. 
Hereford,  a  moiety  or  reversion  of  a  moiety  of  tlie  manor  of  Goderyche 
and  Homcastell,  co.  Worcester,  a  moiety  or  reversion  [of  a  moiety]  of  the 
manor  of  Dalyntou,  Wapnam  and  Slapton,  co.  Northampton,  a  moiety  or 
reversion  of  a  moiety  of  Gledley  and  Pottyi5grave,  co.  Bedford,  a  moiety  or 
reversion  of  a  moiety  of  tlie  manor  of  Lenclielade  and  Southcote,  Cublynton, 
Stutley  and  Chetmyscote,  co.  Buckingham,  a  moiety  or  reversion  of  a 
moiety  of  Wodam  Mortymer  and  Howbregge,  co.  Essex,  and  a  moiety 
or  reversion  of  a  moiety  of  Newton,  co.  Kent,  with  knights'  fees, 
advowsons,  leets,  courts,  views  of  frank-pledge,  fairs,  markets,  warrens, 
fisheries,  free  customs,  rights,  waifs,  strays,  chattels  of  felons  and 
fugitives,  escheats,  liberties,  franchises,  profits  and  commodities,  held  in 
chief  by  knight-service,  without  fine  or  fee  according  to  the  form  of  an  act 
in  the  Parliament  at  Westminster,  6  October,  12  Edward  IV. 

Whereas  lately  in  part  satisfaction  of  certain  attempts  by  subjects  of  the 
king  against  subjects  of  the  king's  kinsman  the  duke  of  Brittany,  to  the 
prejudice  of  free  intercourse  of  merchandise,  by  the  advice  of  the  council 
the  king  granted  the  sum  of  200/.  to  be  distributed  among  certain  subjects 
of  his  said  kinsman  and  promised  satisfaction  to  others,  as  is  more  fully 
contained  in  a  writing  indented  made  in  the  city  of  London  on  12  December, 
1474,  between  Master  Richard  Langcporte,  clerk  of  the  council,  on  the 
part  of  the  king  and  Master  James  de  la  Villeeon,  proctor  of  Rennes,  on 
the  part  of  the  duke  ;  the  king  hereby  in  fulfilment  of  the  indenture  grants 
licence  for  the  merchants  and  men  of  Brittany  whose  names  follow  or  their 
factors  or  attorneys  to  retain  a  moiety  of  all  customs  and  subsidies  on  all 
their  merchandise  and  goods,  whether  corn,  wine  of  Gascony  or  other 
thing.s,  merchandise  of  the  staple  excepted,  brought  into  or  out  of  the  ports 
of  London,  Sandwich,  Cicestre,  Hampton,  Poll,  Exccstre,  Dcrthcmouthe, 
Plemoutli,  Fowy,  Brislo,  Houll  and  Boston  until  they  shall  thus  bo  fully 
safisficd  of  the  undermentioned  sums,  amoimting  in  all  to  G823  crowns  {scuta), 
each  crown  being  valued  at  3^.  id.,  viz.  William  BiUoiiard  and  Yvo  Enzennat 
Depenmarch  1364  |  crowns,  John  Serron  of  Odierne  310.',  crowns,  William 
Ledorngnon  of  Odierne  1140  crowns,  William  le  CunlTaud  John  le  lloux  of 
Gucrrande  97^  crowns,  John  Raoul  of  Guerrande  77^  crowns,  John 
Legallois  of  Guerrande  133  crowns,  Yvo  Lebarnour  of  Guerrande  1200 
crowns,  John  le  Coz  of  Blawet,  William  Carmer  and  INlatthew  Lego  Dauray 
1800  crowns  and  Peter  le  Mezec  of  Ilenebond  700  crowns.  By  p.s. 

Grant  for  life  to  Walter  Radclyf  of  the  office  of  parker  of  Colne,  co. 
Essex,  with  the  accustomed  fees  from  the  issues  of  the  lordship  of  Colne 
and  all  other  profits.  By  p.s 

Grant  for  life  to  Ralph  Thursby  of  a  soil  of  the  king  within  his  palace 
of  Westminster,  viz.  from  '  le  Watergate  '  of  the  palace  by  the  embattled 
wall  on  the  Thames  to  the  steps  within  the  palace  at  the  Star  Chamber  iv. 
length  and  from  the  said  wall  for  the  space  of  20  feet  into  the  2)alace  n 
breadth,  with  leave  to  build  on  the  same  and  receive  the  profit.         By  K. 

Membrane  3. 

Tmpeximus  and  confirmation  to  Thomas,  the  abbot,  and  the  convent 
of  Tilty,  of  the  Cistercian  order,  of  letters  patent  dated  28  January, 
35  Edward  III.  inspecting  and  conlirniing  a  charter  dated  at  St.  Edmunds, 
13  March,  35  Henry  III.  [Charter  Roll,  35  Henry  III.  m.  7]  and 
confirming  divers  private  grants  to  them.       For  40*.  paid  iu  the  hanaper. 


522 


CALENDAR  OF  PATENT  ROLLS. 


1475.  Membranes  2  and  1. 

May  24.  Commission  to  William  Stourton  of  Stourton,  knight,  John  Cheyne  of 
Westminster,  pynne,  esquire,  Robert  Stowell,  esquire,  John  Trevylyan,  esquire,  William 
Huddesfeld,  Thomas  Tremayle  and  William  Stenyng  to  inquire  into  the 
complaint  of  Elizabeth  Loterell,  widow,  that  whereas  John  Loty  was  lately 
seised  of  the  manors  of  Mynhed,  Culveton,  Yveton  and  Estcontok,  co. 
Somerset,  in  his  demesne  as  of  fee  and  enfeoffed  James  Loterell,  esquire, 
and  the  said  Elizabeth,  then  his  wife,  of  them  to  hold  to  themselves  and  the 
heirs  of  James  and  they  were  accordingly  seised  of  them,  viz.  the  said 
tfames  in  his  demesne  as  of  fee  and  the  said  Elizabeth  in  her  demesne  as  of 
frank  tenement,  and  also  a  fine  was  levied  at  Westminster  in  fifteen  days  from 
Easter,  31  Henry  VI.  before  John  Prysot  and  his  fellows,  justices  of  the 
Bench  of  the  late  king,  between  Nicholas  Radford,  William  Dodesham  and 
John  Loty,  complainants,  and  the  said  James  and  Elizabeth,  deforciants, 
concerning  five  messuages,  three  carucates  of  land,  6  acres  of  meadow  and 
\Zd.  of  rent  in  Exton,  Vexford,  Ryxen  and  Stokegommer,  co.  Somerset,  by 
which  the  said  James  and  Elizabeth  acknowledged  these  to  be  the  right  of 
the  said  Nicholas  as  those  which  the  said  Nicholas,  William  and  John  had 
of  their  grant  and  released  the  same  to  the  latter,  and  the  latter  granted 
the  same  to  the  said  James  and  Elizabeth  to  hold  to  themselves  and  the 
heirs  of  the  body  of  James,  and  they  entered  into  and  were  seised  of  the 
same,  viz.  the  said  James  in  his  demesne  as  of  fee  tail  and  the  said  Elizabeth 
in  her  demesne  as  of  frank  tenement,  and  continued  their  estate  in  the  premises 
through  the  whole  life  of  James,  who  died  after  29  December,  39  Henry  VI. 
and  before  4  March,  1  Edward  IV.  and  the  said  Elizabeth  survived  and 
Avas  seised  of  the  premises  and  received  the  esplees  thereof  until  at  the 
Parliament  held  at  Westminster  on  4  November,  1  Edward  IV.  it  \vas 
ordained  that  the  said  James  for  his  murder  of  the  king's  father  Richard, 
late  duke  of  York,  be  attainted  of  high  treason  and  foi'fcit  to  the  king  all 
his  possessions  which  he  had  on  30  December,  39  Henry  VI.  in  England, 
Ireland,  Wales,  Calais  or  the  marches  of  the  same  without  the  liberty  of 
the  bishopric  of  Durham,  saving  all  rights  to  any  person  not  attainted  by 
the  said  act,  and  that  the  wives  of  any  persons  attainted  if  they  were  born 
under  the  obedience  of  the  crown  should  enjoy  their  own  hereditaments 
after  the  death  of  their  husbands,  afterwards  by  an  inquisition  taken  at 
Dunster,  co.  Somerset,  on  20  September,  4  Edward  IV.  before  Thomas 
Mauncell,  esquire,  then  escheator  in  the  county,  by  virtue  of  his  office  and 
returned  before  the  barons  of  the  Exchequer  at  Westminster  it  was  found 
that  Edward  Stradlyng,  knight,  John  Sydynham  the  younger  and  Richard 
Popham  were  seised  of  the  said  manors  of  Mynhed  and  Culveton  in  their 
demesne  as  of  fee  and  granted  them  to  John,  late  archbishop  of  Canterbury, 
Humplirey,  late  duke  of  Buckingham,  Walter  Rodney,  knight,  John 
Seymor,  knight,  James  Lutterell,  Thomas  Wake,  esquire,  Robert  Warre, 
esquire,  Richard  Loterell,  esquire,  John  Cheyne,  esquire,  Richard  Arthur, 
esquire,  William  Arthur  and  Alexander  Hody  to  hold  to  the  use  of  the  said 
James  and  the  heirs  of  his  body,  and  they  were  accordingly  seised  of  the 
same  as  above,  and  the  said  archbishop,  duke,  Thomas,  Richard  Loterell 
and  Alexander  died  before  the  said  30  December  and  the  others  survived 
and  continued  their  estate  until  that  date,  and  that  the  said  James  was 
seised  on  the  said  30  December  in  his  demesne  as  of  fee  of  the  said  manors  of 
Estcantok  and  Yveton  and  nine  messuages,  three  carucates  of  land,  50  acres 
of  meadow  and  20c/.  of  rent  in  Exton,  Vexford,  Ryxen,  Stokegommer, 
Huyshe  by  Heybrigge,  Cotheleston,  Little  Carhampton  and  Radlot,  co. 
Somerset,  of  which  the  premises  claimed  are  parcel,  and  died  seised  thereof, 
and  by  pretext  of  the  above  act  and  inquisition  the  said  manors  and  tenements 
were  taken  into  the  king's  hands  on  the  s.iid  20  September  by  the  said 
escheator  and  the  said  Elizabt:th  was  removed  from  possession  and  the  king 
was  seised  thereof  in  his  demesne  as  of  fee  until  by  letters  patent  he  granted 
them  to  William  Herbert,  late  lord  Herbert,  and  the  heirs  of  his  body  and 


15  EDWARD  IV.— Part  I. 


523 


1475.  Membranes  2  and  1 — cont. 

on  his  death  they  descended  to  William  Herbert,  earl  o£  Pembroke,  who 
still  survives,  but  she  was  boru  within  the  realm,  viz.  at  Exeter,  co. 
Devon,  and  on  the  said  29  December  was  the  wife  of  the  said  James 
Lotterell  and  claims  the  premises  as  above  notwithstanding  the  said 
inquisition,  wherefore  she  prays  that  justice  may  be  done. 


Membrane  1 — cont. 


June  1. 
Westminster. 


May  30. 

WestmlDster, 


June  24. 

Westminster. 


Licence  for  Thomas  Burgh,  knight,  who  is  going  to  cross  the  sea  with 
the  king  on  his  voyage  and  service,  to  grant  a  moiety  of  the  barony 
of  Midforde,  the  castle  or  lordship  of  Midfordc  and  all  his  lands,  rents, 
reversions,  knights'  fees,  advowsons,  views  of  frank-pledge,  courts,  leets  and 
warrens  in  Pount  Eland,  Little  Eland,  Mersfyn,  Ilygh  Calverton,  Calverton 
Valens  and  Mellcsden,  co.  Northumberland,  a  moiety  of  ali  his  lands  and 
tenements  in  Neuburgh,  Thornton,  Henshagb,  Lowes,  Walwyk,  Quarnle 
and  Tresethall,  co.  Northumberland,  all  his  lands  and  tenements  in  Kyrkby 
Kendall,  co.  Westmoreland,  the  manor  of  Drayton,  co.  Middlesex,  all  his 
lands  and  tenements  in  the  town  and  marches  of  Calais,  the  reversion  of 
the  manors  of  Lynwode,  Thurswey,  Grymesthorpe,  Edenham,  Aylesthorpe 
and  Southorpe,  co.  Lincoln,  and  all  those  lands  and  tenements  called 
'  Beamount  Fee  '  in  the  county  of  Lincoln  which  Katharine,  duchess  of 
Norfolk,  holds  for  her  life,  the  reversion  of  the  manor  or  lordship  of 
Thorphall  by  Louth,  co.  Lincoln,  and  the  reversion  of  the  manors  of 
Riskyngton  and  Dygby  with  their  members,  co.  Lincoln,  held  in  chief, 
to  Thomas,  bishop  of  Lincoln,  the  chancellor,  Edward,  bishop  of  Carlisle, 
the  king's  kinsman  Henry,  earl  of  Northumberland,  William  Hastyngcs, 
knight,  lord  Hastynges,  the  king's  chamberlain,  Thomas  Mountgomery, 
knight,  John  Gunthorpo,  clerk,  VVilliam  Skipwith,  knight,  Brian  Rouclytf, 
one  of  the  barons  of  the  Exchequer,  Guy  Fairefax,  one  of  the  king's 
Serjeants  at  law,  William  Husy,  the  king's  attorney,  William  Paston, 
esquire,  Robert  Sheffeld,  John  Dawney,  John  Topclyf,  Richard  Page, 
WiUiam  Paynell  and  Richard  Ripley  and  their  heirs  without  fine  or 
fee  according  to  the  form  of  an  act  in  the  Parliament  at  Westminster, 
G  October,  12  Edward  IV.  [Fcedcra.] 

General  pardon  to  John  Appillisdon  of  all  offences  committed  by  him 
before  28  May.  liy  K. 

The  like  to  the  following:— 

William  Assh.  Thomas  Margery. 

Henry  Clyfton.  Thomas  Yong. 

Richard  Conyston.  Robert  Jackson. 

Thomas  Caldwell.  Simon  Rawlyn. 

John  Wcllis. 

Licence  for  William  Yorke,  esquire,  or  his  executors^after  his  decease  to 
found  a  pcri)etu;d  chantry  of  one  chaplain  to  celebrate  divine  service  daily 
at  tiic  altar  of  St.  Mary  the  Virgin  in  the  church  of  St.  Cross  in  the  town 
and  parish  of  Remcsbury,  in  the  diocese  of  Salisbury,  for  the  souls  of 
Nicholas  Wotlon,  John  Yorke  the  liuher  of  the  said  WiUiam  and  Agnes 
sometime  the  wife  oi'  the  said  William  and  for  the  good  estate  of  the  king 
and  the  said  William  and  all  who  have  granted  lands  and  possessions  for 
the  sustenance  of  the  chantry  or  chajjlain  cr  [have  otherwise  laid  helping 
hands  to  the  same,  and  to  instruct  cort:iin  poor  scholars  coming  to  the  town 
from  all  parts  of  the  realm  and  to  do  other  works  of  piety  and  charity 
according  to  the  ordinance  of  the  said^William  or  his  l^execu tors,  to  be 
called  the  chantry  of  Wotton  and  Yorke,  'and  for  the  chaplain  to  acquire 
in  mortmain,  after  inquisition,  lands,  tenements,  rents  and  other  possessions, 
not  held  in  chief,  to  the  value  of  10/.  yearly  for  his  siistonance. 

By  p.s.  and  for  31/.  Us.  paid  in  the  banaper. 


524 


CALENDAR  OF  PATENT  ROLLS. 


1475,  Membranes  31d — 25c?. 

Commissions  of  the  peace  in  various  counties  {see  Appendix). 

Membrane  24rf. 

March  13.  Commission  to  Giles  Dawebeney,  John  Whitehede,  William  Sandes, 
Westminster.  Jolin  Harecourte  the  elder,  Thomas  Stanshawe  and  the  sheriffs  of 
Somerset,  Dorset,  Wilts,  Southampton,  Oxford  and  Gloucester  to  inquire 
concerning  all  honours,  castles,  lordships,  manors,  lauds,  rents,  reversions, 
annuities,  offices,  fees,  advowsous,  fee-farms  and  other  possessions  which 
Robert  Baynton  late  of  Farleston,  co,  Wilts,  knight,  attainted  of  high 
treason  by  authority  of  an  act  in  the  Parliament  lately  held  at  Westminster, 
Iield  in  those  counties  on  4  May,  11  Edward  IV.  or  afterwards. 

Membrane  2ld. 

March  30.      Commission  to  Thomas  Asshe  and  Nicholas  Longe  to  take  workmen 
Westmiuster.  called  '  brygandynemakers  '  and  all  stuffs  necessary  for  making  '  brygaa- 
dynes.' 

Membrane  19d. 

Afarch  16.  Commission  to  John  Sulyard,  William  Colchestre  and  Thomas 
Westminster.  Crjstem.as  to  inquire  into  all  treasons  and  other  offences  committed  by 

Thomas  Lorde  and  James  Boteswayn,  '  Doucheman,'  within  the  county 

of  Essex. 

Membrane  18d. 

March  30.       Commission  to  John  Jakes,  the  king's  saddler,  to  take  s.addles,  '  traisis,' 
Westminster,  hide  and  other  necessaries  for  the  oflice  of  saddler  for  the  king's  voyage 
to  France.  By  bill  of  the  treasurer  of  war. 

Membrane  lid. 

March  17.       Commission  to  Robert  Oxonbryggc  and  Henry  Auger  lo  examine  into 
Westminster,  certain  discords  between  Joan  the  wife  of  Thomas  Inglefeld  and  Robert 
Baseley  on  account  of  the  entries  into  the  lands  and  the  carrying  off  of  the 
goods  of  the  said  Joan  and  to  bring  about  an  agreement  between  the  parties 
if  possible  and  to  certify  thereon  to  the  king  and  council. 

Membrane  IZd. 

April  23.  Commission  to  John  Suthworth,  esquire,  mayor  of  Chester,  Thomas  Gleg, 
Westminster,  esquire,  Peter  Danyell,  Thomas  Olyegh,  Richard  Lancastre,  William  Bold 
of  Cunwey  and  William  Bulcley  of  Beaumarryse  to  take  ships  and  other 
vessels  for  the  conduct  of  Thomas  Danyell,  esquire,  and  his  retinue,  Avhich 
the  king  has  ordered  to  go  to  Ireland  for  the  resistance  of  his  enemies,  and 
masters  and  mariners  for  the  same  in  the  ports  of  Chester,  Conwny  and 
Beawraarres  and  '  bowyers '  and  '  flecchers '  and  other  workmen  for  the 
artillery, 

April  23.  Commission  to  William  Stanley,  knight,  John  Savage,  knight,  Thomas 
Westminster.  Mauley,  knight,  Roger  Dutton  of  Dutton,  Peter  Daucton  of  Hatton, 
eequire,  and  John  Southworth,  esquire,  to  take  muster  of  Thomas 
Danyell  and  100  archers  at  the  king's  wages  and  120  archers  at  the 
wages  of  the  inhabitants  of  Ireland,  going  to  Ireland  in  the  company  of 
the  said  Thomas  for  the  resistance  of  the  king's  enemies,  at  any  suitable 
place  near  the  city  of  Chester  on  11  May  next  and  to  certify  thereon  to 
the  king  and  council. 


15  EDWARD  IV.— Part 


525 


Membrane  12d. 

Commission  to  Richard  Haute,  esquire,  John  Hulcote,  esquire,  Thomas 
Stydolf,  Richard  Mounteyn  and  the  sheriffs  of  London,  York,  Cumberland, 
Norfolk,  Essex,  Northampton,  Nottingham  and  Derby  to  enquire  touching  all 
castles,  manors,  lordships,  towns,  townships,  honours,  lands,  rents,  services, 
fee  farms,  knights'  fees,  advowsons  and  possessions  which  Richard  Welles 
late  of  Helowe,  co.  Lincoln,  knight,  and  Robert  Welles  late  of  Hclowe, 
knight,  attainted  of  higli  treason  by  force  of  an  act  in  the  Parliament  held 
at  Westminster  on  G  October,  12  Edward  IV.  and  continued  by  divers 
prdrogatious  to  23  January  last,  held  on  12  March,  10  Edward  IV.  in 
England,  Ireland,  Wales  or  Calais  or  the  marches  of  the  same. 


Memurane  lid. 

Commission  to  John  Asteley,  knight,  Master  William  Godeyorc,  doctor 
of  laws,  Jolin  Fortescu,  esquire,  and  Alvred  Corneburgh,  escpiire,  to  enquire 
into  divers  spoliations,  robberies,  and  infractions  of  safe-conducts  of  the 
king  and  truces  between  the  king  and  foreign  princes  by  certain  pirates  at 
sea  and  to  punish  the  delincjucnts  according  to  the  law  and  custom  of  the 
sea  and  the  court  of  Admiralty. 

Commission  of  oyer  and  terminer  to  Thomas  Stanley  of  Stanley,  knight, 
Thomas  Byllyng,  Thomas  Bryan,  John  Nedeham,  knight,  Richard  Chokke, 
knight,  Thomas  Littclton,  William  Laken,  Richard  Ncelo,  George  Stanley, 
William  Stanley,  knight,  and  John  Stanley  concfrning  certain  treasons, 
insurrections,  rebellions  and  unlawful  conventicles  within  the  county  of 
Lancaster.  By  bill  of  p.s. 

Membrane  9<7. 

April  29.  Commission  to  John  Shoute,  yeoman  of  the  crown,  Richard  Exon  and 
Westminster.  Richard  Tillc  to  take  any  ships  along  the  sea  coast  from  Lyght  and 
Wakeryng  in  the  hundred  of  Rochefonl  by  the  Avholc  county  of  Essex 
and  the  counties  of  Norfolk,  Suffolk  and  Lincoln  to  the  town  of  Kyngeston 
on  Hull  and  masters  and  mariners  for  their  governance  and  sufficient  gear 
and  to  bring  the  ships  to  the  port  of  Suthanipton  with  all  haste  and 
certify  thereon  to  the  king  and  council. 

The  like  to  John  Kempe,  Thomas  Grayson  and  William  Talbot  along 
the  sea  coast  by  the  counties  of  Devon  and  Cornwall. 

The  like  to  Thomas  Markham,  John  Granford  and  W^illiam  Galberd  in 
the  river  Thames  from  the  city  of  London  to  Gravesende  and  thence  to 
Sandewich  and  thence  by  the  sea  coast  to  Mynehede. 

May  7.         Commission  to  \\'illiam  Parker,  master  of  a  ship  called  la  Maryarctc 
AVe.stniinster.  Howard,  to  take  mariners  for  the  said  ship  for  the  conduct  of  an  armed 
force  which  the  king  has  ordered  to  go  with  him  to  France  lor  tlie  recovery 
of  that  realm. 

The  like  to  the  following  :— 

John  Bawdcwyn,  master  of  a  ship  called  le  George  Tlotoard. 

John  Rede,  master  of  a  ship  called  la  3I:jrye  of  Dertmouth. 

John  Cappe,  master  of  a  ship  called  la  Barbara. 

Robert  Sergeaunt,  master  of  a  ship  called  le  T/iomas  Iloxcard. 

John  Wodecok,  master  of  a  ship  called  le  I\I(irfi/n  of  London. 

John  Gravile,  master  of  a  ship  called  la  Marie  Calday. 

George  Stanyngburgh,  master  of  a  ship  called  le  Gabricll,  and  Johu 

Bussheby,  purser  of  the  same. 
Johu  Wade,  master  of  a  ship  called  la  Kateryn  of  Thorpe. 


1475. 

May  6. 

Westminster. 


April  18. 
Westminster. 


April  7. 
Westminster. 


62& 


CALENDAR  OF  PATENT  ROLLS. 


1475.  Membrane  9d — cont. 

May  11.  The  like  to  John  Armyn,  master  of  a  ship  called  la  Trinite  of  Medewey. 
Westminster. 

The  like  to  the  following : — 

Thomas  Payn,  master  of  a  ship  called  la  Jenett  of  Pyrwyn. 

Stephen  Wey,  master  of  a  ship  of  Neuhithe. 

John  Blome,  master  of  a  ship  called  la  Petyr  of  Orford. 


Membrane  8d. 

May  23.        Commission  to  the  king's  kinsman  Henry,  earl  of  Essex,  Robert  Multon, 
Westminster,  prior  of  St.  John  of  Jerusalem  in  England,  Robert  Wyngfeld,  knight,  and 
Thomas  Tyryngham  to  take  muster  of  all  soldiers  and  others  belonging  to 
the  king's  ordnance  to  be  sent  to  France  at  a  field  called  '  Seynt  Kateryns 
Mede '  and  to  certify  thereon  to  the  king  with  all  haste. 


Membrane  7d. 

May  24.       Appointment,  during  pleasure,  of  John  Squyer  and  WilHam  Bekley  to 
Westminster,  fake  carpenters  called  •  kervers '  and  other  carpenters  for  the  works  of  the 
king's  new  work  within  the  castle  of  Wyndesore. 

May  27.        Commission  to  WilHam  Philpotte,  master  of  a  ship  called  la  Petyr  of 
Westminster.  London,  to  take  mariners  for  the  said  ship  for  the  conduct  of  an  armed 
force  which  the  king  has  ordered  to  go  with  him  to  France  for  the 
recovery  of  that  realm.  \_Fcedera.'] 

The  like  to  the  following  : — 

William  Rowland,  master  of  a  ship  called  le  John  of  London. 
Richard  Tood,  master  of  a  ship  called  la  Trinite  of  London. 
Thomas  Longge,  master  of  a  ship  called  la  Marie  of  London. 
John  Lokyngton,  master  of  a  ship  called  la  Clement  of  London. 
John  Monde,  master  of  a  ship  called  le  Lytyll  Trinite  of  London. 


Membrane  Gd. 

May  11.       Commission  to  Robert  Michelson  to  take  ships  and  vessels  for  the  car- 
Westminster,  riage  of  4,000  quarters  of  wheat  for  the  victualling  of  the  king's  army  to 
be  sent  to  France  for  the  recovery  of  that  realm,  and  masters  and  mariners 
for  them  and  carriage  by  land  if  necessary. 

May  12.        Commission  to  Thomas  Brewer,  *  bogemaker,'  to  take  hides  and  other 
Westminster,  necessaries  for  making  leather   bags   (bogeis),  '  berehides '  and  '  cloth- 
sackes,'  and  workmen  for  the  same. 

April  19.       Commission  to  Thomas  Lygon,  Humphrey  Sal  wey,  Roger  Harewell, 
Westminster.  William  Lygon  and  the  sheriff  of  Worcester  to  enquire  what  lands  John 
Beauchampe  of  Beauchampe,  knight,  tenant  in  chief,  held  in  the  said 
county,  what  they  are  worth,  on  what  day  he  died,  and  who  is  his  heir,  and 
to  take  the  lands  into  the  king's  hands. 

April  23.  Commission  to  William  Stanley,  knight,  John  Savage,  knight,  Thomas 
Westminster.  Mauley,  knight,  Thomas  Danyell,  Roger  Duttou  of  Dutton,  Peter  Daucton 
of  Hacton,  esquire,  and  John  Snthworth,  esquire,  to  arrest  John  Rutter, 
'gentilman,'  and  John  Obryth  and  others  who  have  received  the  king's 
wages  from  Gilbert  Debenham  to  serve  the  king  in  Ireland  in  his  company 
but  have  not  yet  come  to  the  king's  service,  and  to  imprison  them  until 
they  shall  restore  the  said  wages  or  find  security  that  they  will  serve  the 
king  in  the  company  of  the  said  Thomas  Danyell  and  to  certify  thereon  to 
the  king  and  council. 


15  EDWARD  IV.— Part  I. 


527 


1475.  Membrane  6d — cont. 

May  24.        Commission  to  John  Cauthoin  to  take  ships  ani  vessels  in  the  ports  of 
Westminster,  Boston  and  Grymmesby  and  elsewhere  if  necessary  for  the  carriage  of 
2,000  quarters  of  wlieat  flour  for  the  victualling  of  the  king's  army  to  be 
sent  to  France  for  the  recovery  of  that  realm,  and  masters  and  mariners  for 
them  and  carriage  by  land  if  necessary. 

Membrane  5d. 


April  15.       Appointment  of  John  Dynham  of  Dynham,  knight,  to  the  command  of 
Westminster,  an  armed  force  which  the  king  has  ordered  to  go  to  sea  to  resist  liis 
enemies.    [Foedera.]  By  K. 


528 


15  EDWARD  IV.— Part  II. 


1475.  Membrane  24. 

May  26.  General  pardon  to  Walter  Iloton  late  of  Calais,  '  marjner,'  of  all  offences 
Westiniuster,  committed  by  him  before  23  May.  By  p.s. 

May  26.        General  pardon  to  John  Kyng  late  of  Bansted,  co.  Surrey,  '  yoman,' 
Westminster,  alias  '  husbondman,'  alias  late  of  Thad forth,  co.  Surrey,  '  laborer,' of  all 
offences  committed  by  him  before  15  May.  By  p.s. 

May  26.  Licence  for  the  acquisition  in  mortmain,  after  inquisition,  by  the 
Westminster,  alderman  and  brethi'en  and  sisters  of  the  fraternity  or  gild  of  Holy  Trinity 
in  the  parish  church  of  Louth  of  lands,  tenements  and  rents  to  the  value  of 
60*.  yearly  ■\vithin  the  town  of  Louth  or  elsewhere,  not  held  in  chief,  to 
find  certain  chaplains  or  one  chaplain  to  celebrate  divine  service  in  the  said 
church  for  the  good  estate  of  the  king  and  his  consort  Elizabeth,  queen  of 
England,  and  the  brethren  and  sisters  of  the  fraternity  and  for  their  souls 
after  death,  and  to  do  other  works  of  piety  according  to  the  ordinance  of 
the  said  alderman,  brethren  and  sisters.  By  K. 

May  26.  Licence  for  the  acquisition  in  mortmain,  after  inquisition,  by  the  alder- 
Westminster,  man  and  brethren  and  sisters  of  the  fraternity  or  gild  of  St.  Mary  in  Louth 
of  lands,  tenements  and  rents  to  the  value  of  8  marks  yearly  within  the 
town  of  Louth  or  elsewhere,  not  held  in  chief,  to  find  divers  chaplains  to 
celebrate  divine  service  at  the  altar  of  St.  Mary  in  the  church  of  Louth 
for  the  good  estate  of  the  king  and  his  consort  Elizabeth,  queen  of  England, 
and  the  brethren  and  sisters  of  the  fraternity  and  for  their  souls  after  death 
and  to  other  works  of  piety  according  to  the  ordinance  of  the  said  alderman, 
brethren  and  sisters.  By  K. 

Memorandum.  On  4  July,  16  Edward  IV.  they  acquired  from  John 
Sudbury,  clerk,  and  others  divers  lands  in  Louthy  Thedilfhorpe  and 
Hoggesthorpe,  co.  Lincoln,  extended  at  5  mar/cs  3s.  yearly,  as  of  the  value 
of  6  marks  yearly  in  part  satisfaction. 

May  3.        Grant  for  life  to  Thomas  Mountgomerey,  knight  of  the  body,  of  the 
Westminster,  custody  and  stewardship  of  the  whole  forest  of  Essex,  with  the  usual  fees 
and  other  emoluments.  By  p.s. 

May  29.  Grant  to  the  king's  kinsman  Henry,  earl  of  Essex,  treasurer  of  England, 
Westminster,  of  950/.  [yearly  during  pleasure]  in  part  of  the  expenses  of  the  household 
in  the  king's  absence  for  the  sustenance  of  the  king's  consort  the  queen 
and  the  king's  sons  and  daughters  and  other  persons  in  the  household  to 
be  appointed  by  the  king,  viz.  346/.  13s.  4fZ.  in  the  form  of  10  marks 
Aveekly  from  1  June  next  during  pleasure  from  the  first  moneys  arising 
from  the  svibsidy  of  the  3s.  on  the  tun  and  the  \2d.  on  the  pound  in  the 
port  of  London,  346/.  13s.  4c?.  in  the  form  of  10  marks  weekly  from  1  June 
next  during  pleasure  from  the  first  moneys  arising  from  the  petty  custom 
in  the  same  port,  156/.  13s.  Ad.  yearly  during  pleasure  from  the  first 
moneys  arising  from  the  customs  and  subsidies  in  the  port  of  Suthanipton 
and  100/.  yearly  during  pleasure  from  the  issues  of  the  hanapcr.       By  K. 

May  26.  Grant  for  life  to  Eobert  Kokley,  who  is  going  to  cross  the  sea  in  the 
Westminster,  king's  company  to  France  for  the  recovery  of  that  realm  and  the  king's 
right  there,  and  William  Bokley  his  son  of  the  office  of  ranger  of  the  forest 
of  Lee,  CO.  Rutland,  alias  the  forest  of  Rutland,  with  fees  of  2d.  daily 
from  the  issues  of  the  county  of  Butland  and  all  other  profits;  in  lieu  of 
a  grant  of  the  said  office  with  fees  of  1^  daily  to  the  said  Robert  by  letters 
patent  dated  8  June,  14  Edward  IV.  surrendered.  By  Iv. 

Mandate  in  pursuance  to  the  sheriff  of  Rutland. 


15  EDWARD  IV.— Part  II. 


529 


1475.  Membrane  2 A — cont. 

June  1.         Appointment  of  Eoberfc  Waryngton  to  take  wheat,  flour,  beeves,  muttons, 
Westminster,  sea  fish  and  fresh-water  fish  and  all  other  victuals  for  the  king's  army  soon 
to  be  sent  to  France  for  the  recovery  of  that  realm,  and  carriage  for  the 
same. 

May  1.  Inspeximus  of  letters  (English)  of  the  king  under  his  sign  manual, 
Westminster,  inspected  by  the  knights  of  the  Garter,  ordaining  that  John,  lord  Scrope, 
shall  abstain  from  the  use  and  wearing  of  the  arms  of  the  Isle  of 
Man,  which  he  claims  and  which  Thomas,  lord  Stanley,  steward  of  the 
household,  now  bears,  so  long  as  the  said  lords  shall  continue  in  the 
king's  service  in  his  realm  of  Fr.ance,  duchy  of  Normandy  and  elsewhere 
beyond  the  seas  until  his  return  to  the  realm  of  England.  [Fcedera.] 


Membrane  23. 

May  2.  Licence  for  the  king's  brother  George,  duke  of  Clarence,  who  is  going  to 
Westminster,  cross  the  sea  with  the  king  on  his  voyage  and  service?,  to  grant  the  manor  and 
borough  of  Tyverton,  the  honour  and  hundred  of  Tyverton  and  the 
advowsons  of  three  portions  with  cures  in  the  church  of  Tyverton, 
the  castle,  manors,  lordships,  boroughs  and  hundreds  of  Plympton  and 
Okehampton,  the  manor  and  borough  of  Chalvelegh,  the  manors  of 
Colconibe,  Colyton  alias  Cl.iyton,  ^lusbury  and  CoUbrd,  the  borough  of 
Colyford,  the  manors  of  Opsamc  and  Exilond  alias  Westyatc,  the  hundreds 
of  Estbudlegh,  Westbudlegh,  Wonford  and  Harige,  a  fishery  of  the  water 
of  Exe  and  the  manors  and  lordships  of  Whitford,  Culme  Jon,  Farcwey, 
Aylcsbeare,  Wymple,  Norton  Uavno,  Dertmouth  alias  Dertmouth  Clyftou 
Hardenesse,  Northam,  Londey  and  Daunde  by  Dertmouth,  co.  Devon,  a 
moiety  of  the  manors  of  Trcvcrvyn  and  Tregameur  and  the  manors  of 
Trelugan,  Shevyok  Amton,  Trelowia,  Portlo,  Oldlawitha,  Fcnpoll,  Elerky, 
Poripighan,  Croftehall,  Norfhill,  Landrene  alias  Landryan  and  Lanyidioin, 
CO.  Cornwall,  the  castle  and  lordship  of  Queneburgh  in  the  Isle  of  Shepey, 
the  manors  and  lordships  of  Middelton  and  Marden  and  the  hundred  of 
Middelton,  co.  Kent,  a  tenement  in  the  city  of  London  called  '  le  Ilerber,' 
the  lordship  and  manor  of  Bavelingham  in  the  parts  of  Picardy,  a  soil 
called  '  le  Pounde'  alias  '  Eaunsam  '  and  a  tenement  called  '  The  Wall '  and 
a  mill  pertaining  to  the  s;ime  in  the  county  of  Guysncsse,  the  manor  of 
Claverynge,  co.  Essex,  the  castle  and  lordship  of  Morehende,  co.  North- 
ampton, the  manor  of  SolyhuU  and  the  park  of  Fulbroke,  co.  Warwick, 
the  earldom,  castle,  town  and  honour  of  Richcmond  and  the  fee  farm  of  the 
same  town,  all  manors,  lands,  rents,  services  and  possessions  parcel  of  the 
same  in  the  counties  of  Nottingham,  Derby,  Stafford,  Leicester  and  the  city 
of  Coventre  excepted,  the  castle,  lordships  and  manors  of  Ilarom,  Nuthili, 
lliston,  Sutton  and  two  parts  of  the  manor  of  Rosse,  co.  York,  the  manors 
and  lordships  of  Whitle  and  Warpcsden  alias  War[)elesden,  the  manor  and 
lordship  of  Asshehurst  and  the  park  of  Asshchurst  pertaining  to  the  same, 
CO.  Surrey,  the  castle,  lordship  and  manor  of  Wardar,  the  manor  and 
lordship  of  Ludgarsale,  the  manors  and  lordships  of  Valet,  Clyvecombe 
alias  Wydocombe,  IMaperton,  Chiddcforme  alias  Chiltfrome,  Tolro 
Porcorum,  Swerc,  Ebberton,  Ramsam,  Ponteknoll,  Keutecombe  and 
Wroxale,  co.  Dor.set,  the  manors  and  lordships  of  Jjitlle  Lyndford, 
Wavynden,  Ncnportpaynt^ll  and  the  park  of  Tikeford,  co.  Buckingham, 
the  lordship  and  manor  called  '  Percy  Fre '  in  Ludford,  the  castle  of 
Somcrton,  the  manor,  lordship  and  town  of  Boston  on  the  east  side  of  the 
water  there  and  two  parts  of  the  same  on  the  west  side,  and  the  manor.s, 
lordships  and  towns  of  Freston,  Frampton,  Donnyngton,  Quadryng, 
Wykes,  Skirbek  and  the  soke  of  Skirbek,  Kirkcton  and  the  soke  of 
Kirkctou,  Gaytou  and  the  soke  of  Gayton,  JMounby  and  the  soke  of 


7  96186. 


530 


CALENDAR  OF  PATENT  ROLLS. 


1475.  Membrane  23 — cont. 

Mounby,  Goddesford  in  Freston,  Ledenharn,  FuUebek,  Wasingburgh, 
Boujideby  and  Wrageby,  co.  Lincoln,  tbe  lordship  of  Westle,  co.  Suffolk, 
the  manor  and  lordship  of  Chesthunte,  co.  Hertford,  the  manor  and 
lordship  of  Swafham,  co.  Norfolk,  the  manors  and  lordships  of  Exton, 
Brene,  Somerton  Erliche,  Shokerwik,  Batheneston,  Hunspille  Maris, 
Bellewton,  Pensford  and  Horsey,  Charleton  Makerell,  Dunhede,  Stoke 
Michell,  the  castle  and  lordship  of  Wodford,  the  lordship  and  manor  of 
Wroxall,  Cruklierne  and  Misterton,  co.  Somerset,  all  knights'  fees, 
advowsons,  leets,  courts,  views  of  frank-pledge,  hundreds,  wapentakes, 
fairs,  markets,  parks,  chases,  warrens,  fisheries,  free  customs,  rights,  waifs, 
strays,  chattels  of  felons  and  fugitives,  escheats,  returns  of  writs  and 
executions  of  the  same,  wreck  of  sea,  liberties,  franchises,  forfeitures,  profits 
and  commodities  pertaining  to  the  above,  31Z.  10s.  of  rent  from  the  fee  farm 
of  Wexcombe  and  Bedewynde,  co.  Wilts,  40  marks  of  rent  from  the  fee 
»  farm  of  the  city  of  York,  the  reversion  of  the  manors  and  lordships  of 

Barton  on  Humbre  and  Stewton  and  all  other  lands,  rents  and  services  in 
Barton  on  Humbre  and  Stewton,  co.  Lincoln,  which  Katharine,  duchess  of 
Norfolk,  holds  for  life,  the  reversion  of  eight  messuages,  twenty  bovates  of 
land  and  16  acres  of  pasture  in  Carleton  by  Hemesley  with  the  agistment  of 
the  moor  of  Carleton,  co.  York,  and  an  enclosure  or  tenement  called  *  le 
Cowehous  in  le  Grane  '  there  which  Gruy  Fairfax  holds  for  life,  and 
the  reversion  of  the  castle  and  manor  of  Hamelak  alias  Helmesley, 
a  third  part  of  the  manor  of  Roos,  a  third  part  of  the  manor, 
lordship  and  town  of  Boston  on  the  west  side  of  the  water  there  and 
78/.  6s.  8<7.  yearly  rent,  parcel  of  the  fee  farm  of  the  city  of  York, 
which  Marjory  late  the  wife  of  Thomas  Roos,  knight,  holds  for  life 
in  dower,  held  in  chief  by  knight- service,  to  the  king's  kinsman  Thomas, 
cai'dinal  archbishop  of  Canterbury  and  legate  of  the  apostolic  see,  bishop 
Thomas  Rotheram  the  chancellor,  John  Halse,  bishop  of  Coventry  and 
Lichfield,  Robert  Stillyugton,  bishop  of  Bath  and  Wells,  John  Alcok,  bishop 
of  Rochester,  the  king's  brother  Richard,  duke  of  Gloucester,  the  king's 
kinsmen  William,  earl  of  Arundell,  and  Henry,  earl  of  Essex,  William 
Hastyuges  of  Hastynges,  knight,  the  king's  chamberlain,  Thomas  Billyng, 
chief  justice  of  the  King's  Bench,  Roger  Tocotes,  knight,  William  Catesby, 
knight,  Thomas  Hawekyns,  clerk,  John  Barnaby,  clerk,  Guy  Fairfax  and 
John  Catesby,  Serjeants  at  law,  Henry  Sotehill,  Humphrey  Starky,  Robert 
Sheffeld,  William  Huddesfeld,  William  Eland  and  Thomas  Lygon  and  their 
heirs  without  fine  or  fee  according  to  the  form  of  an  act  in  the  Parliament 
at  Westminstei',  6  October,  12  Edward  IV. 

May  23.        Licence  for  the  said  duke  of  Clarence  to  enfeoff  John,  abbot  of  the 
Westminster,  monastery  of  St.  Mary,  Tewkisbnry,  and  his  successors  of  the  manors  of 
liynfare  and  Stourtou,  co.  Stafibrd,  held  in  chief,  without  fine  or  fee,  as 
above. 

May  21.        Licence  at  the  supplication  of  the  king's  brother  George,  duke  of 
Westminster,  Clarence,  for  the  acquisition  in  mortmain,  after  inquisition,  by  John,  the 
abbot,  and  the  convent  of  the  monastery  of  St.  Mary,  Tewkisbury,  which 
is  of  the  patronage  of  the  said  duke,  of  manors,  lands,  rents  and  services  to 
tlie  value  of  100  marks  yearly.  By  K, 

Membrane  22. 

May  31.        Grant  to  Roger  Ree,  knight,  and  his  heirs  and  assigns,  for  his  good 
Westminster,  service  to  the  king  and  bis  father  Richard,  late  duke  of  York,  in  England, 
France  and  Ireland,  and  for  200  marks  paid  to  the  king,  of  the  manor  of 
Erpyngham  and  Jerbrygge,  co.  Norfolk,  and  the  manor  of  Whatton  atte 


J  5  EDWARD  IV.— Part  II. 


£31 


1475.  Membrane  22 — cont. 

Stone  alias  Bardolfes,  co.  Hertford,  and  all  lands,  rents  and  services  in 
Erpyngh  im,  Jerbrygge  and  Whatton  atte  Stone  with  knight's  fees  and 
advowsons  late  of  William,  late  viscount  Beamont,  and  the  hundred  of 
Berstaple,  co.  P'ssex,  with  all  rights,  fines,  amercements,  wreck  of  sea  and 
other  emoluments  and  commodities,  to  hold  by  fealty  only  ;  in  lieu  of 
grants  to  him  by  letters  patent  dated  24  July,  7  Edward  IV.  surrendered, 
and  to  him  and  his  sons  Roger,  now  deceased,  and  William  by  letters 
patent  dated  14  February,  7  Edward  IV.  surrendered.  By  K. 

Grant  to  the  said  Roger,  for  his  good  service  for  the  space  of  fifty  years 
to  the  king  and  his  father  Richard,  late  duke  of  York,  and  on  account 
of  his  old  age  and  infirmity,  that  during  his  life  he  shall  not  be  compelled 
to  accept  any  office  or  occupation  or  obey  any  mandate  of  the  king  against 
his  will.  By  K. 

Pardon  to  the  king's  uncle  Henry  Bourgchier,  earl  of  Essex,  treasurer  of 
England,  alias  treasurer  of  the  Exchequer,  and  Richard  Fowler,  esquire 
his  clerk,  of  all  offences  committed  by  them  and  all  amercements,  issues, 
debts  and  accounts  due  from  them  to  the  king.  By  K. 

Whereas  Henry  VI.  by  letters  patent  granted  to  the  men  and  tenants  of 
the  town  of  Kyngsthorpe  alias  Thorpe,  co.  Northampton,  who  held  the 
town  at  farm  for  60/.  yearly,  that  for  40  years  from  the  death  of  Joan,  late 
queen  of  England,  they  should  hold  the  town  at  a  rent  of  50/.  yearly, 
and  the  king  by  letters  patent  dated  7  July,  7  Edward  IV.  granted  to  his 
consort  Elizabeth,  queen  of  England,  40/.  yearly  for  life  from  the  farm  of 
the  town,  and  now  the  tenants  have  come  to  great  poverty  ;  the  king 
hereljy  grants  that  they  shall  hold  the  town  with  all  its  members  and 
appurtenances  for  40  years  from  Easter,  14  Edward  IV.  at  a  rent  of  50/. 
yearly,  viz,  rendering  40/.  yearly  to  the  king's  consort  for  her  life  and  the 
residue  to  the  king.  By  K. 

June  17.  Licence,  for  10/.  paid  in  the  hanaper,  for  Richard  Knyglitley,  son  and 
Westmiustcr.  heir  of  Richard  Knyghtlcy  and  Elizabeth  his  wife  late  of  Fallesloy,  both 
deceased,  (o  grant  the  manors  of  Fallcsley  and  Upton  and  the  hundred  of 
Neubotelgravc,  co.  Northampton,  held  in  chief,  to  Thomas  Byllyng,  knight, 
chief  justice  of  the  King's  Bench,  William  Catesby,  knight,  Richard 
Middelton,  e.=quirc,  William  Catesby,  esquire,  son  and  heir  of  William 
Catesby,  knight,  Robert  Throkmerton,  esquire,  Nicholas  Russell,  clerk, 
Robert  Russell,  esquire,  Simon  Burton,  Robei't  Handy  and  William  Lowe 
and  their  heirs  and  assigns. 


May  31. 

Westminster. 


June  20. 
Canterbury. 


June  1. 
Westminster. 


Membrane  21. 

June  3.  Licence  for  William  Parre,  knight,  who  is  going  to  cross  the  sea  with 
Westminster,  the  king  on  his  voyage  and  service,  to  grant  tlie  castle  of  Kendale,  the 
manor  of  Grencrigge,  the  manor  of  Grcnehede,  the  manor  of  Striklond 
Ketill  and  the  hamlets  of  Hutton,  Hay  and  Scalthwayterig,  co.  West- 
moreland, the  manor  of  Laghogh,  co.  Lancaster,  the  town  of  Cargoo,  co. 
Cumberland,  a  third  part  of  the  township  of  Gresmer,  the  lordship  or 
manor  of  Loghrig,  the  lordship  or  township  of  Longden,  tlie  lordship  or 
township  of  Casterton,  the  lordships  or  townships  of  Ambleset  and 
Troutbek,  the  hamlets  of  Appulthwaytc  and  Under  Miluebek  and  the 
water  of  Kent,  co.  Westmoreland,  a  third  part  of  the  manors,  lord- 
ships or  townships  of  Helsynton,  Crosthwayte,  Hutton,  Frosthwayte  and 
Wliittyngton,  co.  Westmoreland,  a  third  part  of  the  manors  of  Worton, 
Carnolbrd,  Asshetou  and  Morcholme,  co.  Lancastei',  a  third  part  of  the 
manors  of  Thorneton,  Kneton  and  Middilton  with  their  members,  co.  York, 
a  third  part  of  all  his  lands  and  tcnemeuts  in  Scotford,  co.  Lancaster, 

L  L  2 


532 


CALENDA.R  OF  PATENT  ROLLS. 


1475. 


June  1. 
Westminster. 


June  1. 
Westminster. 


Jnne  30. 
Westminster. 


July  1. 
Westminster. 


3fembrane  21 — cont. 
fi  third  part  of  the  borough  of  Kirkeby  in  Kendall,  the  bailiff  of  the  same 
borough,  the  office  of  serjeanty  and  the  bailiff  of  Londesdale,  co.  West- 
moreland, a  third  part  of  the  close  or  park  of  Calgarth,  the  herbage  and 
pannage  of  the  same,  the  fishery  of  or  in  the  water  of  Wynandremere,  the 
herbage  of  le  Dale  Hede,  the  toll,  fair  and  market  with  '  les  wyndels  '  and 
'  lepes  '  of  '  le  weele,'  '  lez  bothes,  '  shoppes,'  '  shamles,'  bakehouses,  '  lez 
banks '  with  '  courte  houses '  of  the  town  of  Kirkeby  in  Kendall,  Burgh 
and  Lethous  in  Kirkeby  in  Kendall,  with  their  farms,  profits  and  appur- 
tenances, CO.  "Westmoreland,  a  third  part  of  the  free  farm  of  free  tenants 
in  Kendall,  the  orchard  and  park  of  Moreholme  and  the  mill  of  Appul- 
thwayte,  co.  Westmoreland,  a  third  part  of  the  manor  or  lordship  of 
Nether  Wyresdale,  co.  Lancaster,  the  manor  of  BurnoUeshede,  the  hamlets 
of  Creke,  Lamberyg,  Whitwell  and  Selshede  and  the  manor  of  Castertou, 
CO.  Westmoreland,  and  the  castles,  manors  and  lordships  of  Pendragon, 
Burgh,  Appulby,  Burgham,  Mallerstange  and  Whynfell,  the  manor  and 
lordship  of  Kirkeby  Stephen  and  the  town  of  Wynton,  co.  Westmoreland, 
held  in  chief,  to  the  king's  kinsman  George,  archbishop  of  York,  John 
Conyers,  knight,  John  Whelpedale,  clerk,  and  Richard  Glebra,  chaplain, 
and  their  heirs  without  tine  or  fee  according  to  the  form  of  an  act  in  the 
Parliament  at  Westminster,  6  October,  12  Edward  IV. 

Appointment  for  life  of  William  Parre,  knight,  as  sheriff  of  the  county 
of  Westmoreland,  with  all  issues,  profits  and  commodities,  with  power  to 
appoint  an  under-sheriff  yearly  on  the  morrow  of  All  Souls  and  to  certify 
thereon  to  the  barons  of  the  Exchequer.  By  p.s. 

Grant  to  Alice  late  the  wife  of  Henry,  lord  of  FitzHugh,  knight,  of 
the  custody  of  all  lordships,  manors,  lands,  rents,  services,  knights'  fees, 
advowsons  and  other  hereditaments  late  of  the  said  Henry  during  the  minority 
of  Richard  his  son  and  heir  and  the  custody  and  marriage  of  the  latter 
without  disparagement,  and  so  from  heir  to  heir.  By  p.s. 

Grant  for  life  to  the  king's  counsellor  Thomas  Moungomery,  knight  of 
the  body,  of  the  office  of  keeper  of  the  king's  park  of  Mykyll  Bentley, 
CO.  Essex,  receiving  the  accustomed  fees  at  the  hands  of  the  receivers, 
bailiffs,  tenants,  farmers  or  other  occupiers.  By  p.s. 

Appointment  of  George  Greuefeld,  gentleman  to  take  wheat,  beeves, 
muttons,  sea  fish  and  fresh-water  fish  and  other  victuals  for  the  king's  army 
soon  to  be  sent  to  France  for  the  recovery  of  that  realm,  and  carriage  for 
the  same.  By  bill  of  the  treasurer  of  war. 


Membrane  20. 

June  21.  Grant  to  the  king's  servant  Richard  Fowler,  chancellor  of  the  duchy  of 
Westminster.  Lancaster,  in  repayment  of  the  sum  of  2,207/.  17d,  due  to  him  from  the 
king,  that  ho  or  his  executors  after  his  decease  or  their  factors  or  attorneys 
may  ship  sacks  and  cloves  of  wool,  woollen  cloths,  pieces  of  tin  and  fodders 
of  load  and  other  merchandise  in  the  ports  of  London,  Sandwich  and 
Southampton  and  take  the  wools  by  the  straits  of  Marrok  and  the  woollen 
cloths,  tin  and  lead  and  other  merchandise,  not  being  merchandise  of  the 
staple,  to  any  foreign  parts  and  bring  back  other  merchandise  to  the  said 
ports  quit  of  customs  and  subsidies  (those  on  the  sacks  and  bales  of  wool 
at  the  rate  of  4  marks  only)  un(,il  he  shall  thus  be  satisfied  of  the  said  sum. 

By  p.s. 

June  25.        Grant  to  the  king's  uncle  Henry  Bourghcliier,  earl  of  Essex,  treasurer 
Westminster,    of  England,  and  John  Say,  knight,  that  they  or  their  executors  after  their 
decease  or  their  factors  or  attorneys  may  ship  sacks  and  bales  of  wool, 
TTOol-fells,  woollen  cloths,  pieces  of  tin,  hides  and  fodders  of  load  and  other 


15  EDWARD  IV.— Paet  II. 


533 


1475.  Membrane  20 — cont. 

merchandise  in  any  ports  of  the  realm  and  take  the  wools  and  wool-fells 
by  the  straits  of  Marrok  and  the  woollen  cloths,  tin  hides  and  lead  and 
other  merchandise,  not  being  merchandise  of  the  staple  of  Calais,  to  any 
foreign  parts  and  bring  back  other  merchandise  to  the  said  ports  (juit  of 
customs  and  subsidies  (those  on  the  wool  and  wool-fells  at  the  rata  of 
4  marks  only  on  each  sack  of  wool  or  240  wool-fells)  to  the  sum  of  4,000/, 

By  K. 

June  1.        Grant  to  the  king's  servitor  Ralph  Hastynges,  knight  of  the  body,  of 
Westminster,  the  office  of  the  stewardship  of  all  lordships  and  lands  late  of  John 
Stafford,  earl  of  Wiltshire,  and  Constance  his  wife,  during  the  minority  of 
Edward,  earl  of  Wiltshire,  their  son  and  heir,  receiving  100s.  yearly  at  the 
hands  of  the  bailiffs,  farmers  or  occupiers.  By  p.s. 


Membrane  19. 

June  7.  Licence  for  Giles  Daubeney,  esquire,  who  is  going  to  cross  the  sea 
Westminster,  with  the  king  on  his  voyage  and  service,  to  enfeoff  John  Henton,  prior  of 
Bruton,  William  Paulet,  knight,  John  Cheynye  of  Pynho,  esquire,  Robert 
Stowell,  esquire,  John  Snyffamore,  clerk,  John  Byconyll,  John  Hugyn, 
esquire,  John  Heyron,  John  Rede  and  Thomas  Hyllyng  of  the  manors  of 
Baryngton,  Petterton,  Souththorpe,  Chellyngton  and  Kempston  in  the 
counties  of  Somerset  and  Bedford,  held  in  chief,  without  fine  or  fee 
according  to  the  form  of  an  act  in  the  Parliament  at  Westminster,  6  October, 
12  Edward  IV. 

May  29.  Exemplification,  at  the  request  of  Edward  Ellesmer  late  of  London, 
Westminster,  esquire,  of  the  tenours  of  the  following  : — 

1.  A  petition  (English)  of  the  said  Edward  in  the  Parliament  summoned 

at  Westminster  on  6  October,  12  Edward  IV.  and  continued  by 
divers  prorogations  to  23  January,  14  Edward  IV.  that  whereas 
in  the  Parliament  at  Westminster,  4  November,  1  Edward  IV.  it 
was  ordained  that  he  shouhl  be  attainted  of  high  treason  and  forfeit 
all  the  possessions  which  he  had  on  4  March,  1  Edward  IV.  the 
king  should  enact  that  tliis  act  should  be  void. 

2.  A  schedule  (English)  annexed  to  the  petition  providing  that  this 

shall  not  be  to  the  prejudice  of  any  persons  who  may  have  taken 
any  issues  of  the  premises  from  the  said  4  March  to  Ih?  said 
23  January. 

3.  The  assent  of  the  commons: — A  cest  billc  ct  a  la  cedule  a  ycelle 

annexe  Ics  coininunez  sont  assentuz, 

4.  The  answer  of  the  king :  — Soil  fait  come  il  est  desire. 

[liolls  of  Parliament,  VI.  130.] 

June  12.  Grant  to  John  Cheyne,  one  of  the  esquires  of  the  body,  and  the 
Canterbury,  heirs  male  of  his  body  of  the  manors  of  Fallerdcston,  Shawc,  Bassctcs 
Courte  in  Shawe,  Qnarles  Courtc  in  Horton,  Overwroghton,  Nether- 
wroghton  and  Tollard  with  the  advowson  of  the  church  of  St.  Peter, 
Tollard,  and  1,800  acres  of  arable  land,  300  acres  of  meadow,  1,500 
acres  of  pasture,  300  acres  of  wood  and  160  acres  of  heath  in  Fallerdcston, 
Shawe,  Horton,  Overwroghton,  Netherwrogiiton  and  Tollard,  the  manors 
of  Compton  Chamberlain  and  Combo  Biset  called  '  Red isplace,'  a  moiety 
of  the  manor  of  Wynlreslowc  alias  Rithiscourt  with  the  exception  of 
350  acres  of  wood  parcel  of  the  same  manor  called  '  Richiswoode,' 
the  advowson  of  the  church  of  St.  Michael  belonging  to  the  said  manor 
of  Compton  Chambcrlayn,  1,000  acres  of  arable  land,  40  acres 
of  me.Klow,  2,000  acres  of  pasture  and  the  said  350  acres  of  wood 
called  '  Richewode  '  and  six  messuages  in  Wilton,  a  messuage  in  Long- 


534 


CALENDAR  OF  PATENT  ROLLS. 


1475.  Membrane  19 — cont. 

compton  alias  Compton  Basset,  50  acres  of  arable  land,  12  acres  of 
meadow,  30  acres  of  pasture,  10  acres  of  arable  land  in  Wynterslowe 
called  '  Hardinges '  alias  '  Biduelles,'  a  messuage  and  8  acres  of  land  in 
Berford  St.  Martin,  a  messuage  and  20  acres  of  land  in  Tydelesehede  and 
a  moiety  of  the  manor  of  Compton  Chamberleyn  called  '  Strekelondys 
Moyte  '  with  the  advowson  of  the  church  of  St.  Martin  in  Berford,  co. 
Wilts,  the  manors  of  Chilton  Candever  and  Daundesleywyk  alias  "Wyk 
with  the  advowson  of  the  church  of  St.  Mary  the  Virgin  pertaining  to  the 
said  manor  of  Chilton  Candever  and  (300  acres  of  arable  land,  25  acres  of 
feeding,  300  acres  of  pasture,  300  acres  of  wood  and  100  acres  of  heath 
in  Chilton  Candever,  Daundislewik  alias  Wyk  and  Swaumpton  and  a 
messuage  and  IO5.  rent  yearly  in  Seinet  Mary  Born,  co.  Southampton, 
the  manors  of  Hampreston,  Longkirchill  and  Tarane  Gunvile,  the  advow- 
sons  of  the  churches  of  All  Saints,  Hampreston,  and  St.  Mary  the  Virgin, 
Longkirchill,  a  messuage  in  Gissegge,  1,000  acres  of  arable  land,  50  acres 
of  meadow,  800  acres  of  pasture,  100  acres  of  wood  in  Hampreston'  and 
Longkirchill,  the  manor  of  Osmondes  in  Pernnam  and  the  advowson  of  the 
church  of  St.  Laurence,  Fernnam,  two  water-mills  called  '  Trigges  Milles,' 
4  acres  of  land  and  3  acres  of  meadow  by  Wymbourne  Mynster,  and  seven- 
teen messuages  in  Fernnam,  co.  Dorset,  parcel  of  the  manor  of  Tollard,  the 
manor  of  Delamers  alias  Lamberdes  by  the  spring  of  Mynchinhampton  and 
a  water-mill  in  Mynchinhampton,  co.  Gloucester,  the  manor  of  Merssh- 
baldyngton  and  800  acres  of  arable  land,  50  acres  of  meadow,  100  acres  of 
pasture  and  4  acres  of  wood  in  Mersshbaldynton,  co.  Oxford,  and  ten 
messuages,  300  acres  of  arable  land,  100  acres  of  meadow,  160  acres  of 
pasture  and  30  acres  of  wood  in  Asshecamys  alias  Camysasshe,  co. 
Somerset,  with  knights'  fees,  advowsons,  wards,  marriages,  reliefs, 
escheats,  courts,  leets,  views  of  frank-pledge,  parks,  woods,  warrens, 
fisheries,  waters,  stews,  liberties,  franchises,  profits  and  commodities  late 
of  Robert  Baynton  late  of  Farleston,  co.  Wilts,  knight,  and  in  the  king's 
hands  by  reason  of  his  forfeiture  and  by  force  of  an  act  in  the  last  Parliament 
at  Westminster,  to  hold  by  the  accustomed  services.  By  K. 

July  8.         Grant  for  life  to  John  Rysley,  esquire,  of  the  oflSces  of  bailiff  of  the 
Westminster,  king's  town  and  lordship  of  Lavenham  and  keeper  of  the  manor,  park  and 
warren  of  Lavenham,  receiving  the  accustomed  fees  at  the  hands  of  the 
king's  receiver  there.  By  p.s. 

Appointment  of  Richard  Fcnis,  lord  of  Dacre,  as  one  of  the  king's 
councillors,  and  grant  to  him  of  100  marks  yearly  from  the  issues  of  the 
customs  and  subsidies  of  [the  port  of]  the  city  of  London.  By  p.s. 


Membrane  18. 

June  20.  Grant  to  the  king's  firstborn  son  Edward,  prince  of  Wales,  duke  of 
SaDdwich.  Cornwall  and  earl  of  Chester,  keeper  of  the  realm  and  lieutenant  of  the 
king  while  he  is  beyond  the  seas,  of  full  power  to  grant  licences  for  election 
to  chapters  of  cathedral  and  conventual  churches  when  void,  to  give  assent 
to  the  elections  of  minor  prelates  and  receive  their  fealties  and  restore 
their  temporalities  to  them,  and  to  present  to  all  churches  in  the  king's  gift 
exceeding  the  taxation  of  20  marks  and  not  exceeding  the  taxation  of 
40  marks,  reserving  to  the  king  the  collations  of  all  otlier  churches  and 
ecclesiastical  dignities  and  benefices  except  churches  of  the  taxation 
of  20  marks  and  under  to  which  the  chancellor  will  present  as^  usual. 
[Faidera.']  By  K. 

Appointment  of  the  king's  firstborn  son  Edward,  prince  of  Wales,'  duke 
of  Cornwall  and  earl  of  Chester,  as  keeper  of  the  realm  of  England  and 


15  EDWARD  IV.— Part  U. 


May  26. 

Westminster. 


1475.  Membrane  18 — cont. 

lieutenant  of  the  king  while  he  is  beyond  the  seas  on  the  expedition  of 
war  against  rrauce.    [Fcedera.']  By  K. 

Grant  to  the  same  of  power  to  appoint  a  suitable  person  to  hold  tho 
pleas  of  the  Marshalsea  and  to  make  all  ordinances  concerning  that  office. 
[Fcedera.]  By  K. 

Grant  to  the  same  of  power  to  receive  the  fealties  of  the  elect  of  minor 
churches  of  the  realm  and  to  restore  the  temporalities  to  them  and  to  grant 
to  deserving  persons  the  pensions  which  they  are  bound  to  grant  to  the 
king's  clerks.    [Fcedera.]  By  K. 

Grant  to  John  Herle,  esquire,  and  Margaret  his  wife,  late  the  wife  of 
Richard  Herbert,  knight,  tenant-in-chief,  of  the  custody  of  all  lordships, 
manors,  lands,  services  and  other  possessions  with  knight's  fees  and 
advowsons  late  of  the  said  Richard,  the  lands  late  of  John  Skydmore, 
knight,  excepted,  during  the  minority  of  William  the  son  and  heir  ot  the 
said  Richard  and  so  from  heir  to  heir,  finding  a  competent  sustenance  for 
the  heir  and  supporting  the  houses,  enclosures  and  buildings  ;  in  lieu  of  a 
grant  to  the  said  Margaret  by  letters  patent  dated  3  October,  11  Edward  IV. 
surrendered.  By  p.s. 

June  12.  Grant  to  Richard,  bishop  of  Salisbury,  whom  by  other  letters  patent  the 
Canterbury,  king  has  appointed  master  and  surveyor  of  a  new  chapel  which  ho  is  pro- 
posing to  build  to  the  honour  of  St.  Mary  and  St.  George  the  Martyr  within 
the  castle  of  Wyndesore  and  divers  otlier  works  there,  of  full  power  and 
authority  to  demolish  certain  buildings,  walls,  and  houses  from  tlic  west  of 
tlie  old  chapel  there  to  the  walls  of  the  castle  on  the  north  and  west  where 
the  towers  called  '  Cluer  ys  Towre  '  and  '  le  Amener  is  Towre  '  and  '  Barner 
is  Towre '  are  situated  and  from  the  south  to  the  bell  tower  there  and  to 
remove  the  materials  and  use  tliem  for  other  buildings  within  the  castle  at 
his  discretion  without  rendering  any  account  to  tho  king.  By  p.s. 

June  12.  Appointment  of  Richard  Hastyngcs  of  Wellys,  knight,  as  surveyor  of 
Canterbury,  the  office  of  constable  of  tiie  king's  castle  of  Notyngliam,  the  offices  of 
magistrate  of  divers  forests,  chaces,  parks,  woods,  and  game,  the 
offices  of  divers  stewardships  and  constableships  and  divers  other  offices 
which  William  Hastyngcs  of  Hastynges,  knight,  the  king's  chamborhiin, 
has  of  the  king's  grant  within  the  counties  of  Nottingham,  Derby,  Leicester, 
and  Stafford,  while  the  latter  is  beyond  the  seas  with  the  king  in  his 
expedition  to  France.  By  K. 

July  26.  Letters  of  denization  for  John  Ilughson,  spicer,  born  in  the  town  of 
Westminster.  Bruggis  in  Flanders.  By  p.s. 


Membrane  17. 

June  18.  Grant  to  the  king's  kinswoman  Anne,  duchess  of  Buckingham,  of  tho 
Canterbury,  custody  of  all  castles,  lordships,  manors,  lands,  rents,  services,  reversions, 
and  possessions  with  knights'  fees  and  advowsons  late  of  Tliomas  Cobham, 
knight,  deceased,  or  of  Anno  his  wife,  deceased,  tenant  in  chief  during  the 
minority  of  Anne  thi'ir  daugiitcr  and  heir  and  the  custody  and  marriage  of 
the  latter  without  disparagement,  with  the  reversions  of  all  lands,  rents  and 
services  which  may  descend  to  her  during  minority,  and  so  from  hoir  to 
heir,  provided  that  tiiis  shall  not  extend  to  the  custody  of  any  castles, 
manors  lands  or  hereditaments  which  may  descend  to  any  such  heir  on  the 
death  of  Ralph,  earl  of  Westmoreland.  By  K, 

June  12.         Grant  to  James  Blount,  esquire,  and  the  heirs  male  of  his  body  of  the 
Canterbury,    manor  of  Apedale  alias  Apdale,  not  exceeding  the  value  of  12/.  yearly,  and 
all  lands,  rents  and  services  in  Uttekcestre  alias  Uttexhater  and  tho  parisli 


536 


CALENDAR  OF  PATENT  ROLLS. 


3^475.  Membrane  17 — cont. 

of  Marcliyngton  under  Nedewode,  co.  Stafford,  not  exceeding  the  value  of 
10  marks  yearly,  with  knights'  fees,  advowsons,  courts,  leets,  liberties, 
franchises,  parks,  warrens,  fisheries,  stews  and  other  commodities  late  of 
John  Delvys,  esquire,  and  in  the  king's  hands  by  reason  of  an  act  of  for- 
feiture in  the  last  Parliament  at  Westminster.  By  p.s. 

June  18.  General  pardon  to  John  Edyngham  late  of  Wodchirche,  co.  Kent, 
Canterbury.   '  gentilman,'  alias  John  Engeham  late  of  Tenterden,  co.  Kent,  esquire. 

By  K. 

May  29.  Grant  for  life  to  the  king's  servant  Walter  Mathewe  of  a  croft  containing 
Westminster,  half  an  acre  of  land,  80  acres  of  arable  land,  60  acres  of  pasture,  10  acres  of 
meadow  and  10*.  of  rent  in  Kyngesnorton  called  '  Fermons,'  co.  Worcester,  in 
the  king's  hands  by  the  forfeiture  of  James,  late  earl  of  Wiltshire;  in  lieu 
of  a  grant  to  him  by  letters  patent  dated  20  April,  14  Edward  IV. 
surrendered.  By  p.s. 

June  10.  Grant  to  the  king's  servant  Robert  Chamberleyn,  knight  of  the  body,  and 
Westminster,  the  heirs  male  of  his  body  of  the  manors  of  Chambres  in  Eppyng,  co. 

Essex,  and  Great  Fynbergh  and  Cantelowes,  co.  Suffolk,  to  hold  from  St. 
Nicholas  last  with  advowsons,  liberties,  escheats,  wards,  marriages,  reliefs, 
suits  of  courts  and  other  appurtenances  by  fealty  only.  By  K. 

June  18.        Pardon  to  John  Penpons  late  of  Trevaswhethan,  co.  Cornwall,  esquire, 
Canterbury,    late  escheator  in  the  counties  of  Devon  and  Cornwall,  of  all  debts,  accounts 
and  arrears  due  from  him  to  the  king  by  reason  of  his  said  offices.    By  p.s. 

June  18.       Grant  for  life  to  the  king's  servant  Richard  Page  of  201.  yearly  from 
Canterbury.   Easter  last  from  the  customs  and  subsidies  in  the  ports  of  Plymmouth  and 
Fowy  and  ports  and  places  adjacent.  By  K. 


Membrane  16. 

June  16.  Grant  to  John,  lord  of  Audeley,  and  Galiard  de  Dureford,  lord  of  Duras, 
Canterbury,  knights,  whom  the  king  has  appointed  captains  of  the  army  of  armed  men 
and  archers  which  he  has  determined  to  send  to  Brittany  and  the  neigh- 
bouring parts  against  his  adversary  Louis  of  France,  of  power  to  treat  in 
the  king's  name  with  commonalties  and  persons  willing  to  come  to  the  king's 
obedience,  as  the  king  desires  to  i-ecover  his  rights  in  the  realm  of  France 
and  the  duchies  of  Normandy  and  Aquitaiuo  if  possible  without  shedding 
of  Christian  blood.  By  K. 

June  13.  Grant  to  Robert,  lord  of  Boyde,  of  the  parts  of  Scotland,  whom  the 
Canterbury,  king  has  retained  to  serve  him,  and  his  executors  and  assigns  of  200  marks 
yearly  for  his  sustenance  for  seven  years  from  Michaelmas  next,  viz.  10/. 
from  the  farm  or  issues  of  a  messuage,  sixteen  virgates  of  land,  16  acres  of 
meadow  and  19s.  rent  in  Watford,  co.  Northampton,  at  the  hands  of  the 
hands  of  Eustace  de  Burueby  and  Matilda  his  wife  or  the  farmers,  occu- 
piers or  receivers  of  the  same,  25/.  from  the  farms  and  revenues  of 
the  manor  of  Gretton,  co.  Northampton,  40/.  from  the  farm  of  all  assarts, 
wastes,  and  purpestures  within  the  forest  between  tlie  bridges  of  Staunford 
and  Oxford,  10/.  from  the  fee  farm  of  the  town  of  Worcester  and  the  issues 
of  the  same,  16/.  from  the  fee  farm  of  the  city  of  Hereford  and  the  issues  of 
the  same,  16/.  from  the  fee  farm  of  Pynnokshire,  co.  Glouccstei',  at  the 
hands  of  the  abbot  and  monks  of  Hayles  or  the  receivers,  farmers  or  other 
occupiers  of  the  same,  10/.  from  tlie  fee  farm  or  issues  of  the  city  of 
Norwich,  and  6/.  6s.  8r7.  from  the  ftirm  of  the  hundreds  of  Kyftesgiits, 
HoHbrd  and  Greston  with  the  fairs  and  markets  held  in  the  town  of 
WyucLecombe,  co.  Gloucester,  By  K. 


15  EDWARD  IV.— Part  11. 


637 


1475.  Membrane  16 — cont. 

June  18.       Grant  to  Jerome  Coutryne,  merchant  of  Venice,  in  payment  for  a  great 
Canterbury,    rope  called  '  a  cable  '  provided  by  him  for  the  king's  ship  called  le  Grace- 
dyeu,  that  he  may  retain  the  customs  and  subsidies  of  certain  merchandise 
of  his  in  a  carrack  of  which  George  Dragane  is  patron,  at  present  in  the 
port  of  Sandwich,  to  the  sum  of  50  marks.  By  K. 

June  7.        Grant  to  John  Gunthorpe,  the  king's  almoner,  in  augmentation  of  the 
Canterbury,    king's  alms,  of  all  goods  and  chattels  of  felons  de  se  and  all  deodands 
within  the  realm,  in  lieu  of  a  like  grant  to  him  by  letters  patent  dated 
9  December,  8  Edward  IV.  surrendered.  By  K. 

June  19.       Pardon  to  the  king's  brother  George,  duke  of  Clarence,  of  all  trespasses 
Canterbury,    committed  by  him  against  the  statutes  of  signs,  liveries  and  retinues,  all 
alienations  and  perquisitions  by  him  of  lands  held  in  chief  without  licence 
and  all  fines,  amercements,  issues,  reliefs,  scutages,  debts,  accounts  and 
arrears  due  from  him  to  the  king.  By  K. 

Pardon  to  Richard  Boughton,  esquire,  late  escheator  in  the  counties  of 
Warwick  and  Leicester,  of  all  offences  committed  by  him  and  all  fines, 
amercements,  issues,  reliefs,  scutages,  debts,  accounts  and  arrears  due  from 
him  to  the  king  by  reason  of  his  office.  By  K. 

June  14.       Appointment  of  John  Lynford  to  take  beeves,  muttons,  sea  fish  and  fresh- 
Canterbury,    water  fish  and  other  victuals  for  the  army  which  the  king  has  ordered  to  be 
sent  to  France  for  the  recovery  of  that  realm,  and  carriage  for  the  same. 

By  bill  of  the  treasurer  of  war. 

June  18.  The  like  of  Thomas  Desford  to  take  wheat,  wine,  beeves,  muttons, 
Canterbury,    fish  etc.  By  bill  of  the  treasurer  of  the  household. 

The  like  of  Druett  Gosselyn  to  take  wheat,  oats,  beeves,  muttons,  sea  fish 
and  fresh-water  fish  etc.  By  bill  of  the  treasurer  of  war. 

July  14.       Presentation  of  John  Thornton,  vicar  of  the  church  of  Westhurrock,  in 
Westminster,  the  diocese  of  London,  to  the  church  of  Northcove,  in  the  diocese  of 
Norwich,  on  an  exchange  of  benefices  with  John  Malton. 


Membrane  15. 

.Tune  7.  Whereas  John  Elryngton,  treasurer  of  the  household,  rendered  a  true 
Canterbury,  account  before  Hugh  Fenne  and  Nicholas  Lathell,  auditors,  of  all  sums 
received  and  spent  by  him  for  the  expenses  of  the  household  from  10  May, 
11  Edward  IV.  to  30  September,  14  Edward  IV.  as  was  declared  by  the 
auditors  before  the  king  and  the  lords  of  the  council,  and  from  the  said 
30  September  to  31  March  last  the  sum  of  3,729/.  \Gd.  remains  unpaid 
to  divers  creditors,  the  king  hereby  grants  to  the  said  John  the  sum  of 
600/.  yearly  from  Michaelmas  last  foi-  the  payment  of  the  said  creditors, 
viz.  400/.  from  the  issues  of  the  hanapcr,  100  marks  from  tiie  subsidy  and 
ulnagc  of  cloths  in  the  county  of  York,  the  city  of  York  and  tlie  town  of 
Kyngeston  on  Hull,  20/.  from  the  like  in  the  counties  of  Somerset  and 
Dorset,  20/.  from  the  like  in  the  county  of  Warwick  and  the  city  of 
Coventry,  40/.  from  the  like  in  the  county  of  Wilts,  33/.  65.  8r7.  from 
the  like  in  the  town  of  Bristol  and  20/.  from  the  like  in  the  county  of 
Gloucester,  until  full  satisfaction  shall  be  made.  By  p.s. 

June  6.        General  pardon  to  John  Elryngton,  esquire,  treasurer  of  the  household, 
Canterbury,    alias  late  cofferer  of  the  king,  alias  keeper  or  clerk  of  the  hanaper,  alias 
John  Ellerton,  esquire,  cf  all  offences  committed  by  him  before  this  time 
and  all  issues,  fines,  amercements,  reliefs,  scutages,  debts,  accounts  and 
arrears  due  from  him  to  the  king  before  3  October  last.  By  K. 


538 


CALENDAR  OF  PATENT  ROLLS. 


1475. 

June  7. 
Canterbury. 


June  3. 
Westminster. 


June  7. 
Canterbury. 

June  10. 
Canterbury. 


June  15. 
Canterbury. 


June  17. 
Canterbury. 


June  16. 
Canterbury. 


Membrane  15 — cont. 

Grant  to  the  king's  knight  John  Howard,  lord  of  Howard,  and  the  heirs 
male  of  his  body  of  the  manors  of  Preston,  Cokefeld,  Aldam  and  Mendam, 
CO.  Suffolk,  and  Poljngham  and  Michelhall  alias  Earl's  Swafham,  co. 
Cambridge,  with  knights'  fees,  advowsous,  courts,  leets,  views  of  frank- 
pledge, liberties,  fairs,  markets,  warrens  and  profits,  belonging  to  the  king 
by  reason  of  an  act  in  the  ParUament  held  at  Westminster  on  6  October, 
12  Edward  IV.  and  continued  by  divers  prorogations  to  23  January, 
14  Edward  IV.  against  John  Veer,  earl  of  Oxford,  to  hold  by  the 
accustomed  services  with  all  issues  due  to  the  king.  By  K. 

Grant  to  Thomas  Mongomeri,  knight,  of  the  custody  of  all  manors, 
lands,  rents,  services  and  other  possessions  and  advowsons  and  knights' 
fees  late  of  Alice,  deceased,  tenant  in  chief  by  knight  service,  late  the  wife 
of  John  Henyngham,  knight,  during  the  minority  of  John  her  son  and  heir 
and  the  custody  and  marriage  of  the  latter  without  disparagement,  and  so 
from  heir  to  heir.  By  K. 

Presentation  of  William  Sutton  to  the  parish  church  of  Gresforde,  in 
the  diocese  of  St.  Asaph,  void  by  the  resignation  of  Richard  Andrewe, 
last  rector. 

Inspeximus  and  confirmation  to  John  Serle  and  Thomas  Serle  his  son 
of  letters  patent  (English)  of  the  king's  mother  Cecily,  duchess  of  York, 
late  wife  to  Richard,  rightful  king  of  England  and  France  and  lord  of 
Ireland,  dated  at  her  manor  of  Kenyngton,  20  May,  8  Edward  IV.  granting 
to  them  for  life  the  office  of  keeping  her  great  park  of  Bardefeld,  co.  Essex, 
taking  the  accustomed  fees  from  the  issues  of  her  manor  of  Bardefeld  ;  and 
grant  to  them  of  the  same  for  their  lives,  with  all  profits. 

By  p.s.  and  for  \  mark  paid  in  the  hanaper. 

Presentation  of  Adam  Rydshefe  to  the  parish  church  of  St.  Martin, 
Camp,  in  the  diocese  of  Terouanne,  void  by  the  resignation  of  John  de 
Villario,  last  parson.  The  letters  are  directed  to  Th.  cardinal  archbishop 
of  Canterbury. 

Grant  to  Thomas,  bishop  of  Lincoln,  chancellor  of  England,  and  his 
heirs  and  assigns  of  the  tenement  sometime  of  John  Wokyng  and  after- 
wards of  John  Wenlok,  lord  of  Wenlok,  knight,  situated  in  le  Ryall  and 
in  the  parish  of  St.  Michael  called  '  Pater  Noster  Churche,'  London, 
in  the  king's  hands  on  the  death  of  the  said  John  Wenlok,  who  died 


without  heir. 


By  K. 


Licence  for  the  acquisition  in  mortmain  by  the  master  and  fellows  of 
the  king's  college  of  Clarehall  in  the  University  of  Cambridge  of  lands, 
rents,  reversions  and  other  possessions  and  advowsons  of  churches  to  the 
yearly  value  of  201.  for  the  augmentation  of  divine  worship  and  that  they 
may  pray  for  the  good  estate  of  the  king  and  his  consort  Elizabeth,  queen  of 
England.  By  K. 


Membranes  14  and  13. 

June  21.  Impexhnus  and  confirmation  to  James,  bishop  of  Norwich,  of  the 
Westminster,  following : — 

1.  A  charter  dated  at  Rouen,  10  July,  5  John,  to  John,  then  bishop. 

\_Botuli  Carlarim,  p.  108.] 

2.  Letters  patent  dated  8  October,  2  Richard  II.  inspecting  and  con- 

firming to  Henry,  then  bishop,  a  charter  dated  at  Westminster, 
21  February,  12  Edward  III.  [Charter  Boll,  12  Edward  III. 


15  EDWAED  IV.— Part  II. 


539 


J475.  Membranes  14  and  13 — cont. 

No.  41,]  inspecting  and  confirming  to  Anthony,  then  bishop,  the 
following : — 

(1.)  A  charter  of  Henry  [I.]  dated  at  Norwich. 
(2.)  A  charter  of  Henry  I.  dated  at  Winchester. 
(3.)  A  charter  dated  at  Acton  Burnell,  4  October,  1 1  Edward  I. 
ICharter  Boll,  11  Edward  I.  No.  3],  to  William,  then 
bishop. 

(4.)  A  charter  dated  at  Lincoln,  30  August,  9  Edward  II. 
[Charter  Roll,  9  Edward  II.  No.  3],  to  John,  then 
bishop. 

3,  Letters  patent  dated  28  June,  10  Eichard  II.  inspecting  and 
confirming  letters  patent  dated  16  May,  24  Edward  III. 

For  10/.  paid  in  the  hanaper. 


Membrane  13 — cant. 

June  3.  Licence  for  the  king's  kinsman  John,  duke  of  Norfolk,  who  is  going  to 
Westmiustcr,  cross  the  sea  with  the  king  on  his  voyage  and  service,  to  enfeoff  Thomas, 
archbishop  of  Canterbury,  William,  bishop  of  Winchester,  the  king's 
kinsman  Henry,  earl  of  Essex,  Eichard  Suthwell,  Eichard  Derby,  clerk, 
James  Hobart  and  John  Yorko  of  the  manors  or  lordships  of  Fornesset, 
Halveryate,  South  walsham,  Dechyngham,  Han  worth,  Southfeld  and 
Eresham  and  half  the  hundred  of  Eresham,  co.  Norfolk,  and  the  manors  or 
lordships  of  Ketylbcrc,  co.  Suffolk,  Cliesterford,  co.  Essex,  Eppeworth,  co. 
Lincoln,  and  Britghelmeston  and  Dorkyng  in  the  counties  of  Sussex  and 
Surrey,  with  knights'  fees,  advowsons,  wards,  marriages,  reliefs,  escheats, 
courts,  leets,  views  of  frank-pledge,  parks,  woods  warrens,  fisheries,  waters, 
stews,  liberties,  franchises,  profits  and  commodities,  held  in  chief,  without 
fine  or  fee  according  to  the  form  of  an  act  in  the  Parliament  at  Westminster, 
6  October,  12  Edward  IV. 

July  8.  General  pardon  to  Eichard   Beynton  late  of  London,  'draper,'  alias 

Westminster,    'yoman,'  of  all  offences  committed  by  him  before  22  June  last.         By  p.s. 

June  24.  Grant  to  the  king's  consort  Elizabeth,  queen  of  England,  Eichard,  bishop 
Westminster,  of  Salisbury,  and  Master  William  Dudley,  dean  of  the  chapel  of  the  house- 
hold, of  the  custody  of  all  castles,  lordships,  manors,  lands,  rents,  pos- 
sessions and  hereditaments  in  England,  Ireland,  Wales  and  the  marclies  of 
the  same  late  of  John,  late  earl  of  Shrewsbury,  tenant  in  chief,  with  the 
exception  of  the  castle,  lordship  and  manor  of  Goderych  and  Irchynfeld 
alias  Urchynfeld  and  the  hundred  of  Wormelowe  with  members,  profits, 
leets,  views  of  frank-f ledge,  forfeitures,  fines,  woods  and  pastures  and  all 
lands,  possessions  and  hereditaments  in  Goderych,  Urchynfeld  and  the 
hundred  aforesaid  and  all  castles,  lordships,  manors,  lands,  possessions  and 
hereditaments  which  the  king  granted  to  his  counsellor  William  Hastynges, 
knight,  lord  Hastynges,  his  cliamberlain,  for  the  sustenance  of  George,  son 
and  heir  of  the  said  late  carl,  by  other  letters  patent,  with  knights'  fees, 
advowsons,  wards,  marriages,  reliefs,  fairs,  markets,  courts,  loots,  views  of 
frank-pledge,  liberties,  franchises,  jurisdictions,  profits,  commodities  and 
emoluments,  to  hold  from  Easter  last  during  the  minority  of  the  said  George, 
and  so  from  heir  to  heir;  and  grant  to  them  also  of  the  custody  of  the  said 
castle,  lordship  and  manor  of  Goderych  and  Irchynfeld  and  hundred  of 
Wormelowe  and  all  lands,  rents,  possessions  and  hereditaments  in  Goderyche, 
Urchynfeld  and  the  hundred  of  Wormelowe  aforesaid,  with  knights'  fees, 
advowsons,  wards,  marriages,  reliefs,  fairs,  markets,  courts,  leets,  views  of 
frank-pledge,  liberties,  franchises,  jurisdictions,  profits,  commodities  and 
emoluments  to  hold  from  Easter  last  during  the  minority  of  the  said  George 
rendering  to  the  king  50/.  13s.  id.  yearly.  By  K. 


540 


Calendar  of  patent  rolls. 


1475. 

June  24. 
Westmiuster. 


July  17. 

Westminster. 


June  19. 
Canterbury. 


Membrane  13 — cont. 

Grant  to  the  same  of  the  custody  of  all  castles,  lordships,  manors,  lands, 
rents,  possessions  and  hereditaments  late  of  John,  late  earl  of  Wiltshire, 
tenant  in  chief,  with  knight's  fees,  advowsons,  wards,  marriages,  reliefs, 
fairs,  markets,  courts,  ieets,  views  of  frank-pledge,  liberties,  franchises, 
jurisdictions,  profits,  commodities  and  emoluments  to  hold  from  Easter 
last  during  the  minority  of  John,  son  and  heir  of  the  said  earl,  with  his 
marriage  without  disparagement,  and  so  from  heir  to  heir ;  and  also  the  cus- 
tody of  all  lordships,  manors,  lands,  rents,  reversions,  services,  possessions 
and  hereditaments  in  the  counties  of  Northampton,  Rutland,  Leicester, 
Bedford,  Buckingham,  and  Middlesex  and  the  town  of  Norhampton  or 
elsewhere  within  the  realm  of  England  late  of  Thomas  Tresham,  knight, 
and  in  the  king's  hands  by  his  forfeiture  and  by  virtue  of  an  act  in  the  last 
Parliament  at  Westminster,  with  knights'  fees,  advowsons,  wards,  marriages, 
reliefs,  fairs,  markets,  courts,  leets,  views  of  frank-pledge,  liberties,  fran- 
chises, jurisdictions,  profits,  commodities  and  emoluments  to  hold  from 
Easter  last  during  the  minority  of  the  said  John  by  the  accustomed  rents 
and  services.  By  K. 

Licence  for  the  alienation  in  mortmain,  after  inquisition,  by  Thomas, 
bishop  of  Lincoln,  of  lands  to  the  value  of  20/.  yearly,  not  held  in  chief,  to 
Richard  Flemmyng,  the  dean  and  the  chapter  of  the  church  of  St.  Mary, 
Lincoln.  By  p.s. 

Pardon  to  William  Sergeaunt  of  Colcestre,  *  harbour,'  of  all  treasons  and 
felonies  committed  by  him  in  the  counterfeiting,  clipping,  sweating,  and 
other  falsification  of  the  money  of  the  land.  liy  K. 


Membrane  12. 

April  28.  Grant  to  the  merchants  of  Almain  of  the  confederacy  of  the  Teutonic 
Westminster.  Hanse,  who  have  the  house  in  the  city  of  London  called  Gildhalla 
Thentonicorum,  and  their  successors  of  five  messuages  situated  in  Wend- 
goselane  in  the  parish  of  All  Hallows  at  the  Hay,  London,  viz.  between 
the  said  house  and  a  garden  belonging  to  it  on  the  west  and  the  said  lane 
called  Wendoselane  on  the  east  with  one  head  abutting  on  the  street  of 
Thamisestrete  towards  the  north  and  the  other  head  abutting  on  the  tenement 
late  of  the  abbot  and  convent  of  St.  Albans  towards  the  south,  late  of 
Margaret  late  the  wife  of  Robert  Fitz  Robert  son  of  Robert  Fitz  Robert, 
late  citizen  and  grocer  of  London,  which  the  king  had  of  her  grant,  and 
also  a  tenement  and  quay  adjoining  with  all  commodities,  easements  and 
other  ap])urtenances  and  rights  in  the  said  lane  in  the  said  parish  between 
the  tenement  late  of  Bartholomew  Frestlyng  on  the  east,  the  quay  called 
Esterlyngeshalle  on  the  west,  the  river  Thames  on  the  south  and  the 
tenement  late  of  Ralph  Blakeuey  on  the  north,  late  of  the  said  abbot  and 
convent  and  which  the  king  had  of  the  grant  of  Master  William  Dudley, 
dean  of  the  chapel  of  the  household.  Master  John  Gunthorpe,  dean  of  the 
cathedral  church  of  Wells,  and  Master  William  HatclyfE,  the  king's  secretary. 

ByK. 

May  6.  Licence  for  the  alienation  in  mortmain  by  Hugh  Brice,  citizen  and 

Westminster,  goldsmith  of  London,  of  a  messuage,  88  acres  of  land  and  IGrf.  rent  in 
Reynham,  co.  Kent,  late  of  Guy  Elys,  3  acres  and  fifteen  daywerks  of 
arable  land  in  the  parish  of  Reynham  aforesaid  viz.  the  acres  in  a  place 
called  '  Bernevales '  in  le  borough  of  Mekelond  and  the  daywerks  at 
Conrsediche,  2  acres  and  5  virgates  of  arable  laud  in  Reynham  by  the 
street  called  '  Mochemannestrete,'  2  acres  of  arable  land  called  'Redynges' 
and  a  garden  adjacent  in  Reynham  in  le  borough  of  Mekelond  by  the 
way  called  *  Ameneway'  leading  from  le  Svvyll  to  Kaystrete,  an  acre  and  a 
halt  of  arable  land  iu  Reynham  in  a  place  called  '  Sharuold  '  in  le  borough 


15  EDWARD  IV.— Part  II. 


£41 


1475. 


March  12. 
Westminster. 


May  3. 
AVestmiustcr. 


Membrane  12 — cont. 

of  Mekelond  and  all  other  messuages,  lands,  rents  and  services  in  the 
parishes  of  Reynham  and  Upchirch,  co.  Kent,  late  of  John  Richyngwode 
at  the  time  of  his  death,  not  held  in  chief,  to  Lionel  Wydeville,  the  master 
or  warden,  and  the  brethren  and  sisters  of  the  hospital  of  St.  Katharine  by 
the  Tower  of  London,  in  exchange  for  a  tenement  in  Lombardstrete  in  the 
parish  of  St.  Mary  VVolnoth,  London,  held  in  burgage,  to  hold  to  liimself 
and  his  heirs  and  assigns.  By  K.  and  for  10/.  paid  in  the  hanaper. 

Grant  to  the  king's  kinswoman  Katharine,  countess  of  Shrewsbury,  late 
the  wife  of  John,  late  earl  of  Shrewsbury,  of  the  manors  and  lordships  of 
Wrokewardyn,  Sutton  Maddok  and  Tasseley,  co.  Salop,  the  manors 
and  lordships  of  Longhope,  Huntley,  Lydney  and  Cropettis  and  a. 
messuage  called  Hunth(-us  in  Groat  Shiryngton  and  within  the  parish  of 
Baggeworth,  parcel  of  the  said  manor  of  Croppettis,  and  a  moiety 
of  the  manor  of  Baggeworth,  co.  Gloucester, 
Monyassh  and  Childerston  alias  Chilmerdon, 
lordships  of  Stoke  Verdoa  and  Willeford,  a 

Swyndon  alias  Evon  Swyndon  and  a  third  part  of  the  manor  of  Assheton, 
CO.  Wilts,  the  lordship  and  manor  of  Furnham  lliall  alias  Farnham  Verdon, 
CO.  Buckingham,  two  parts  of  tl)e  manor  of  Ley  alias  Ligli  and  a  mill  and 
a  pasture  in  Werscbury,  parcel  of  the  said  manor,  co.  Gloucester,  the  third 
part  of  the  manor  and  hundred  of  Shrivenham  alias  Schryvcnham,  co. 
Berks,  and  a  third  part  of  the  manor  and  hundred  of  Brampton,  co. 
Oxford,  with  all  towns,  lands,  annuities,  knights'  fees,  advowsons  and  other 
members  and  appurtenances,  of  which  her  husband  was  seised  and  which 
are  in  the  king's  hands  by  reason  of  the  minority  of  George  his  son  and 
heir,  to  hold  for  life  in  full  allowance  of  her  dower,  witii  all  issues  from 
the  death  of  the  said  late  earl.  By  p.s. 

Licence  for  the  king's  kinsman  Henry,  earl  of  Norlhumbcrland,  who  is 
going  to  cross  the  sea  with  the  king  on  his  voyage  and  service,  to  enfeoff 
Thomas  Forsset  and  John  Scutt,  clerks,  of  the  manors  of  I'oklyngton, 
Hundmanby,  Scymcr,  Thurstanby,  Kaynclyff  and  Naffrcton,  co.  York, 
held  in  chief,  without  fine  or  fee  according  to  the  form  of  an  act  in  the 
Parliament  at  Westminster,  G  October,  12  Edward  IV". 


the  manors  and  lordships  of 
CO.  Derby,  the  manors  and 
third  part  of  the  manor  of 


Membrane  11. 

June  12.        Confirnuvtion  to  William  Essex  of  the  oflice  of  remembrancer  in  the 
Caiitcibury.    Exchequer  which  tiic  king  granted  to  him  for  life  by  letters  patent  dated 
18  July,  1  Edward  IV.  receiving  the  accustomed  Vrages,  regards  and  other 
profits  from  Michaelmas  last  from  the  customs  and  subsidies  in  the  port  of 
Suthamptou.  By  K. 

Juno  19.       Licence  for  William,   the  prior,  and  the   convent  of  Christchurch, 
Cauterbury.    C.intcrbury,  to  acquire  in  mortmain,  without  incpiisition,  lands,  tenements 
or  rents  to  the  value  of  2U/.  yearly,  not  held  in  chief.  By  K. 

June  10".        Pardon  to  John  Walssh,  late  escheator  in  the  county  of  Gloucester,  of  all 
Ciiiitcibiiry.   iiucs,  it  sues,  amercements,  debts,  accounts  and  arrears  due  from  him  to  the 
king  by  reason  of  his  office.  By  K. 

June  20.        Pardon  to  the  king's  uncle  Henry  Bourgchier,  carl  of  Essex,  treasurer 
Cantcibury.    of  England,  alias  treasurer  of  the  Exchequer,  and  Richard  Fowler,  esciuire, 
his  clerk,  of  all  offences  committed  by  them  and  all  amercements,  issues, 
debts  and  accounts  due  from  them  to  the  king.  By  K. 

Juno  19.       Pardon  to  Tliomas  Wodell,  esquire,  late  escheator  in  the  county  of 
Canterbury.    Stafford,  of  all  oftences  committed  liy  him  and  all  fines,  amercements, 
issues,  reliefs,  scutages,  debts,  accounts  and  arrears  due  from  him  to  the 
king  by  reason  of  his  office.  By  K, 


642 


CALENDAR  OP  PATENT  ROLLS. 


1475.  Membrane  11 — cont. 

June  12.       Appointment  of  John,  lord  Audeley,  and  Galliard  Dureford,  lord  Duras, 
Westminster,  to  the  rule  and  governance  of  an  armed  force  which  the  king  has  ordered 
to  be  sent  to  the  parts  of  Brittany.    {Fo'.dera.']  By  K. 

June  20.       Pardon  to  Richard  Hide,  esquire,  late  escheator  in  the  counties  of 
Canterbury.    Southampton  and  Wilts,  of  all  offences  committed  by  him  and  all  fines, 
amercements,  issues,  reliefs,  scutages,  debts,  accounts  and  arrears  due  from 
him  to  the  king  by  reason  of  his  office.  By  K. 

June  17.        Pardon  to  William  Parre,  knight,  and  Elizabeth  his  wife  of  all  alienations 
Canterbury,    and  provisions  by  them  of  lands  held  in  chief  without  licence  and  all  fines, 
amercements,  issues,  reliefs,  scutages,  debts,  accounts  and  arrears  due  from 
them  to  the  king.  By  p.s3 

May  .30.        General  pardon  to  Robert  Catesby  late  of  Newenham,  co.  Northampton, 
Westminster,  chaplain,  alias  late  parson  of  the  parish  church  of  All  Saints,  Lodbroke, 
CO.  Warwick,  alias  late  of  Redford,  co.  Bedford,  alias  late  of  Hereford. 

By  p.s.  • 

Membrane  10. 

June  7.  Licence  for  Thomas,  bishop  of  Lincoln,  chancellor  of  England,  John 
Canterbury.  Sturgeon,  John  Pulter,  John  Audemer,  esquire?,  John  Beell,  John  Edward, 
Thomas  Abbot,  Thomas  Blaunchard,  John  Wiseberd,  Richard  Drake,  Ralph 
Paton  and  John  Cook  to  found  a  fraternity,  or  perpetual  gild,  of  themselves 
and  other  persons  who  may  wish  to  be  of  it  of  one  master  and  two  guardians 
and  brethren  and  sisters  in  the  church  of  St.  Andrew,  Hicchyr,  co. 
Hertford.  The  master,  guardians,  brethren  and  sisters  shall  have  power 
to  augment  the  fraternity  whenever  they  shall  see  fit,  and  every  year  on 
tlie  Nativity  of  St.  Mary  to  elect  a  master  and  two  guardians  for  the 
business  and  governance  of  the  gild  and  to  lemove  them  from  office  and 
appoint  others,  and  to  make  ordinances  for  the  governance  of  the  fraternity, 
which  shall  be  called  the  fraternity  or  gild  of  St.  Mary,  Hicchyn.  They 
shall  form  one  body  and  shall  have  perpetual  succession  and  a  common 
seal  and  power  of  acquiring  lands,  rents  and  other  possessions  and  of 
pleading  and  being  impleaded.  Grant  to  them  of  licence  to  acquire  in 
mortmain  lands  and  rents,  not  held  in  chief,  to  the  value  of  24  marks 
yearly  for  the  support  of  the  charges  of  the  fraternity  and  for  the  main- 
tenance of  two  chaplains  to  celebrate  divine  service  daily  in  the  said  church 
for  the  good  estate  of  the  king  and  his  consort  Elizabeth,  queen  of 
England,  and  the  brethren  and  sisters  of  the  fraternity  and  for  their  souls 
after  death.  And  grant  to  them  that  they  may  have  two  fairs  yearly  of 
three  days  at  the  .said  town  of  Hicchyn,  viz.  one  on  the  Wednesday  in 
Easter  week  and  the  days  preceding  and  following  and  the  other  on  the 
feast  of  the  Translation  of  St.  Edward  King  and  Confessor  and  the  days 
preceding  and  following,  with  a  court  of  pie-powder  and  all  profits.    By  K. 

Oct.  28.  Foundation  of  a  fraternity  or  perpetual  gild  of  a  master  and  two  wardens 
Westminster,  and  the  brethren  and  sisters  who  may  wish  to  be  of  the  same  in  the  chapel 
of  St.  Mary,  Rounsidevall,  by  Charyngcrosoc  in  the  suburbs  of  Loudon. 
They  shall  have  power  to  augment  the  fraternity  whenever  they  shall  see 
fit  and  every  year  at  the  Assumption  of  St.  Mary  to  elect  a  master  and  two 
wardens  for  the  business  and  governance  of  the  gild,  and  they  shall  form 
one  body  and  shall  have  perpetual  succession  and  a  common  seal  and  power 
of  acquiring  lands,  rents  and  other  possessions  and  of  pleading  and  being 
impleaded.  And  grant  to  them  of  licence  to  found  a  perpetual  chantry  of 
one  chaplain  to  celebrate  divine  service  daily  at  the  high  altar  in  the  said 
chapel  for  the  good  estate  of  the  king  and  his  consort  Elizabeth,  queen  of 
England,  and  his  firstborn  son  Edward  and  the  brethren  and  sisters  of  the 
fraternity  and  for  their  souls  after  death.  By  p.s. 


15  EDWARD  IV.— Part  II. 


543 


1475.  Membrane  10 — cont. 

June  24.  Grant  to  the  king's  consort  Elizabeth,  queen  of  England,  Richard 
Westminster,  bishop  of  Salisbury,  and  William  Dudley,  dean  of  the  chapel  of  the  house- 
hold, and  their  assigns  of  the  castle,  lordship  and  manor  of  Hedyngham 
and  the  lordships  and  manors  of  Earl's  Colne,  Benteley,  Canfeld  and 
Stanstede  Monfichet  with  their  members,  co.  Essex,  and  tlie  lordship  and 
manor  of  Lavenhara  with  its  members,  co.  Suffolk,  late  of  John,  late  earl 
of  Oxford,  and  in  the  king's  hands  by  his  forfeiture  and  by  virtue  of 
an  act  in  the  last  Parliament  at  Westminster,  the  lordships  and  manors  of 
Sutton  and  Tydde,  co.  Lincoln,  late  of  Thomas  de  la  Launde,  knight,  and 
in  the  king's  hands  by  his  forfeiture  and  by  virtue  of  the  said  act,  and  the 
lordships  and  manors  of  Busshy  and  Eggeware  with  their  members  in  the 
counties  of  Middlesex  and  Hertford,  witli  knights'  fees,  advowsons,  courts, 
leets,  views  of  frank-pledge,  fairs,  markets,  parks,  warrens,  fisheries,  wreck 
of  sea  and  all  other  rights,  liberties,  franchises  and  profits,  to  hold  by  the 
accustomed  rents  and  services,  with  all  issues  from  Easter  last ;  and  also 
the  lordships  and  manors  of  Wodestok,  Hamborugh,  Stonfeld,  Bladon  and 
Wotton  and  the  hundred  of  VYotton  with  their  members,  co.  Oxford,  with 
knights'  fees,  advowsons,  courts,  leets,  views  of  frank-pledge,  fairs,  markets, 
parks,  warrens  and  all  other  rights,  liberties,  franchises  and  profits  to  hold 
for  seven  years  from  Easter  last.  By  K. 

July  1.  Grant  in  frank  almoin  to  Henry,  the  prior,  and  the  convent  of  the  house 
Westminster,  and  church  of  St.  Mary  Overcy  iu  Suthwark,  in  the  diocese  of  Winchester, 
who  have  promised  to  celebrate  daily  within  their  church  a  mass  of 
St.  Herasmus  the  Martyr,  in  which  the  priest  shall  pray  for  the  soul 
of  the  king's  father  Richard,  duke  of  York,  and  for  the  good  estate  of  the 
king  and  his  consort  Elizabeth,  (luccn  of  England,  and  the  king's  ^ir.■^tborn 
sou  Edward,  prince  of  Wales,  duke  of  Cornwall  and  earl  of  Chester,  aud 
the  king's  other  children  and  for  their  souls  after  death,  as  appears  in  a 
writing  under  tlioir  common  seal,  of  the  advowson  of  the  parish  church  of 
West  Tylbury,  co.  Essex,  in  the  diocese  of  London,  which  is  of  the  king's 
patronage  ;  and  licence  for  them  to  appropriate  the  said  church  in  morlniaiu 
after  inquisition,  paying  to  the  king  Hi.  9*.  for  fee  of  the  seal. 

By  p.s.  and  for  20*.  paid  in  the  hanaper. 
Aug.  4.        Presentation  of  John  Longeman,  chaplain,   to  the  parish  church  of 
Westmiuster.  Culmynton  in  Ic  Corvcdalc,  iu  the  diocese  of  Hereford,   void  by  the 
rcsigiuition  of  John  Billingesborowe,  last  parson,  and  in  the  king's  gift  by 
reason  of  the  minority  of  his  kinsman  George,  carl  of  Shrewsbury. 


Membranes  9. 

Aug.  12.  Grant  to  the  king's  servant  Thomas  Gale  of  Dertheraouth,  who  at  the 
AVestminster.  king's  command  prepared  two  ships  of  his  with  mariners  to  resist  the  king's 
enemies  at  sea  and  continued  on  the  king's  service  at  sea  with  the  said 
ships  aud  mariners  from  10  Fel)ruary  last  until  10  July  at  his  owu  expense, 
whereby  the  king  is  indebted  to  him  in  the  sum  of  35/.  1  Is.  2d.,  that  he 
or  his  factors  or  attorneys  may  sliif)  woollen  cloths,  pieces  of  tin  aud 
fodders  of  lead  and  other  mereliaudise  not  of  the  staple  of  Calais  in  the 
ports  of  Exeter  and  Dertemouth  and  take  them  to  any  foreign  parts  and 
bring  back  other  merchandise  to  the  said  ports  quit  of  customs  aud  subsidies 
to  the  said  sum.  By  p.s. 

Mandate  in  pursuance  to  the  customers  or  collectors  of  the  customs  and 
subsidies  iu  the  port  of  Dertmouth. 

Aug.  27.        Presentation  of  Robert  Ripplyiigham  to  the  parish  ciiurch  of  Chcpsted, 
Westmiuster.  in  the  diooesc  of  Winchester,  void  by  the  death  of  the  last  incumbent 
and  in  the  king's  gift  by  reason  of  the  minority  of  Edward,  earl  of 
Wiltshire. 


544 


CALENDAR  OF  PATENT  ROLLS. 


1475.  Membrane  9 — cont. 

Aug.  9.        Presentation  of  Tristram  More,  chaplain,  to  the  parish  church  of  All 
Westminster.  Saints,  Dorchestre,  in  the  diocese  of  Salisbury,  void  by  the  resignation  of 
William  Brydde. 

Aug.  30.        General  pardon  to  Edward  Tewson  late  of  Oxford,  clerk,  of  all  offences 

Westminster,  committed  by  him  before  24  July  last.  By  p.s. 

Aug.  16.        Confirmation  of  the  foundation  by  the  king's  clerk  Robert  Wodelarke, 

Westminster,  professor  of  theology,  of  a  mansion  in  the  town  of  Cambridge  in  a  street 
called  *  Millestrete '  within  the  University  of  Cambridge  for  a  master  and 
three  or  more  fellows  studying  philosophy  and  theology,  to  be  called  the  hall 
of  St.  Katharine  the  Virgin,  and  grant  that  the  said  hall  shall  be  a  perpetual 
college  and  fellowship  of  a  master  and  three  or  more  fellows  within  the 
University.  The  master  and  fellows  shall  have  perpetual  succession  with 
power  to  acquire  in  mortmain  lands,  rents,  reversions,  possessions  and  services, 
and  a  chest  or  tower  and  other  statutes,  ordinance  and  insignia  according 
to  the  disposition  of  the  said  Robert  and  his  executors,  and  a  common  seal 
and  power  of  impleading  and  being  impleaded.  And  grant  to  them  of 
licence  to  acquire  in  mortmain  without  inquisition  lands,  rents,  reversions, 
possessions  and  services,  not  held  in  chief,  to  the  value  of  40  marks  yearly, 
that  they  may  pray  for  the  good  estate  of  the  king  and  for  his  soul  after 
death.  By  K.  and  for  1 8^.  4s.  4.cl.  paid  in  the  hanaper. 

July  8.         Grant  for  life  to  the  king's  servant  Richard  Page  of  the  office  of  steward 

Westminster,  of  the  king's  manor  of  Eltham,  co.  Kent,  receiving  fees  of  40s.  yearly  from 
the  issues  of  the  manor  with  all  other  profits.  By  p.s. 

Sept.  7.        General  pardon  to  German  Fynue  of  Fowey,  co.  Cornwall,  '  mariner,' 

Westminster,  alias  German  Scalard,  '  yoman.'  By  K.  &  C. 

Sept.  13.        Licence  for  the  "prior  and  convent  of  the  monastery  of  Whitby,  of  the 

Westminster,  order  of  St.  Benedict,  in  the  diocese  of  Yoi'k,  to  elect  an  abbot  in  the  place 
of  Dan  Thomas  Pykering,  last  abbot,  resigned. 

Membrane  8. 

July  10.  Grant  to  John  Couper  and  Stephen  Ponde,  the  masters  or  governors, 
Westminster,  and  the  brethren  and  sisters  of  the  poor  fraternity  or  gild  of  principal  and 
chief  clerks  of  collegiate  and  parish  churches  of  the  city  of  London, 
founded  by  the  late  king  by  letters  patent  dated  8  February,  27  Henry  VI. 
that  on  account  of  their  poverty  they  shall  be  discharged  from  finding  one 
of  the  two  chaplains  mentioned  in  the  said  letters  patent.  Grant  to  them 
also  of  authority  over  all  the  principal  and  chief  clerks  of  the  said  city  and 
■%»  the  suburbs  of  the  same.  And  grant  to  them  of  licence  to  acquire  in 
mortmain  lands,  rents  and  services  within  the  said  city  and  elsewhere  within 
the  realm,  not  held  in  chief,  to  the  value  of  20/.  yearly. 

By  p.s.  and  for  31s.  paid  in  the  hanaper. 
Aug.  6.  Grant  for  life  to  John  Kendale,  esquire,  who  spent  the  days  of  his  youth 
Westminster,  in  the  service  of  the  king's  father  and  the  king  and  now  has  come  to  old 
age  and  debility,  of  the  office  of  controller  of  the  king's  works  within  the 
realm  and  \2d.  daily  for  himself  and  G(Z.  daily  for  a  clerk  under  him,  as 
were  allowed  to  John  Straunge,  late  clerk  of  the  works,  for  the  wages  of 
John  Harteshorn,  lately  holding  the  office  of  controller,  viz.  \2d.  daily  from 
the  issues  of  the  counties  of  Cambridge  and  Huntingdon  and  dd.  daily 
from  the  issues  of  the  county  of  Lincoln,  with  a  robe  of  the  suit  of  the 
king's  esquires  yearly  at  the  great  wardrobe  and  all  other  profits,  houses, 
gardens  and  commodities  pertaining  to  the  office ;  in  lieu  of  a  grant 
to  him  by  letters  patent  dated  12  February,  1  Edward  IV.  surrendered. 

By  p.s. 

Mandate  in  pursuance  to  the  sheriff  of  Cambridge  and  Huntingdon. 
Mandate  in  pursuance  to  the  sheriff  of  Lincoln. 


15  EDWARD  IV.— Paut  II. 


545 


1475. 

Aug.  26. 

Westminster. 


Sept.  16. 
Wegtminster. 


Membrane  8 — cont. 

Graut  for  life  to  the  king's  counsellor  John,  lord  Howarde,  of  the  office 
of  steward  of  the  king's  castle  and  Iord.sliip  of  Henyngham,  town  and 
lordship  of  Lavenham  and  all  other  castles,  lordships,  manors  and  lands 
within  the  counties  of  Suffolk  and  Essex  late  of  John  Vere,  late  earl  of 
Oxford,  with  the  accustomed  fees  from  the  issues  of  the  same  and  all  other 
profits.  By  p.s. 

Grant  for  life  to  the  king's  servant  William  Aleyn,  one  of  the  yeomen  of 
the  crown,  of  6d.  daily  for  the  fee  of  the  crown  from  1  March  last,  from 
which  day  he  has  been  in  office,  from  the  rent  of  serjeaaty  in  the  county  of 
Wilts  and  the  revenues  of  the  county.  By  p.s 


July  22. 

Westminster. 


July  23. 

Westminster. 

July  12. 
Westminster. 


July  27. 

Westminster. 


July  28. 
Westminster, 


July  29. 

Westminster. 

July  25. 
Westminster. 


y  96186. 


Membrane  7. 

Grant  to  tlie  king's  kinsman  Henry  Percy,  earl  of  Northumberland,  and 
Robert  Multon,  prior  of  St.  John  of  Jerusalem  in  England,  whom  the  king 
lately  retained  as  wardens  of  the  east  march  and  middle  march  of  England 
towards  Scoihmd  for  seven  years  from  24  June  last,  and  who  are  to  receive 
for  the  safe  custody  of  the  said  marches  6,000  marks  yearly  in  time  of  war 
and  2,000  marks  yearly  in  time  of  peace  or  truce,  of  the  sum  of  2,000  marks 
yearly  as  above  during  the  said  term,  viz.  400/.  from  the  issues  of  the 
customs  and  subsidies  in  the  port  of  Kyngeston  on  Hull,  400/.  from  the  like 
in  the  port  of  Newcastle  on  Tyne,  53/.  G*.  8f/.  from  the  issues  of  the  county 
of  Northumberland,  280/.  at  the  receipt  of  tlie  Excliecjuer  at  the  hands  of 
tlie  treasurer  and  chamberlains  and  200/.  from  the  issues  of  all  lands  late  of 
Gerard  Witheryngton,  kniglit,  deceased,  tenant  in  chief,  in  the  county  of 
Northumberland  and  in  the  king's  hands  by  reason  of  tlie  minority  of  Roger 
his  son  and  lieir ;  provided  that  whenever  the  said  carl  shall  return  home 
from  the  king's  service  beyond  the  seas  and  wish  to  stay  on  the  custody  of 
the  marches  the  said  prior  sliall  relinquish  the  custody  within  fourteen  days 
of  the  said  earl's  certifying  his  return.  By  p.s. 

General  pardon  to  Elias  Riley,  *yoman,'  late  of  the  county  of  Stafford, 
of  all  offences  committed  by  him  l)cfore  25  June  last.  By  p.s. 

Revocation  of  the  protection  with  clause  volumiis,  for  one  year,  granted 
on  25  March  last  by  letters  patent  to  William  Ferry  alias  Fcrys,  citizen  and 
mercer  of  London,  going  beyond  the  seas  on  tlie  king's  service  in  the 
company  of  Laurence  Reynford,  knight,  because  the  sheriff's  of  London  have 
certified  that  he  delays  in  that  city. 

Pardon  to  William  Dudley  alias  Duddeley,  dean  of  the  cliapel  of  the 
household,  of  all  debts,  accounts  and  arrears  due  from  him  to  tiic  king 
and  all  demands  which  the  king  may  have  against  him  before  20  June  last. 

By  p.s. 

Grant  to  John  Wcthepoll  and  John  Ja)'e  of  Bristol,  who  at  the  king's 
command  prepared  live  ships  of  theirs  with  mariners  to  resist  the  king's 
enemies  of  France  at  sea  and  continued  in  tlic  king's  service  at  sea  from 
3  February  to  10  July  at  their  own  expense,  whereby  the  king  is  indebted 
to  them  in  tiio  sum  of  190/.  15*.  that  they  or  their  factors  or  attorneys  may 
ship  woollen  cloths  and  other  mercliandise  not  of  the  staple  of  Calais  in 
the  ports  of  Bristol  and  Hampton  and  take  them  to  any  foreign  parts  and 
bring  back  otlicr  merchandise  to  the  said  ports  quit  of  customs  and  subsidies 
to  the  said  sum.  By  p.s. 

Mandate  in  pursuance  to  the  customers  or  collectors  of  llio  customs  and 
subsidies  in  the  port  of  Bristol. 

Revocation  of  (he  protection  with  clause  volumiis,  for  one  year,  granted 
on  15  June  last  by  letters  patent  to  William  Maluery,  citizen  and  '  saltcr  ' 
of  Loudon  staying  on  the  king's  service  witliin  tiio  realm  on  the  victualling 

M  M 


546 


CALENDAR  OF  PATENT  KOLLS. 


1475.  Membrane  7 — cont. 

of  the  king's  army  bejond  the  seas,  because  he  delays  in  London  on 
his  own  business,  as  Thomas  Hill  and  Edmund  Shaa,  sheriffs,  have 
certified. 

Oct.  6.  Revocation  of  the  protection  with  clause  volumus,  for  one  year,  granted 
Westminster,  on  15  April  last  by  letters  patent  to  Henry  Whiche,  citizen  and  '  iremonger ' 
of  London,  going  beyond  the  seas  on  the  king's  service  in  the  company 
of  John  Elryngton,  treasurer  of  the  king's  war,  because  he  delays  in  the 
city  and  suburbs  of  London,  as  Robert  Colwyche^and  Hugh  Brice,  sheriffs, 
have  certified. 


Membranes  6  and  5. 


Oct.  2. 

Westminster. 

Oct.  3. 

Westminster. 

Oct.  6. 
Westminster. 


Sept.  11. 

Westminster. 


General  pardon  to  Thomas  Saundres  alias  Saundre  of  Horecrosse,  co. 
Stafford^ 'yoman,' of  all  offences  committed  by  him  before  11  September 
last.  By  p.s. 

General  pardon  to  John  Tomson  alias  Thomsone  of  the  county  of 
Middlesex,  '  bruer '  alias  '  yoman,'  of  all  offences  committed  by  him  before 
6  September  last.  By  p.s. 

Pardon  to  William  Marty n,  whom  by  letters  patent  the  king  lately 
appointed  one  of  the  controllers  of  the  subsidy  of  tonnage  and  poundage  in 
the  port  of  London  and  ports  and  places  adjacent,  of  all  forfeitures  by  him  to 
the  king  and  grant  that  he  may  buy  and  sell  any  merchandise  and  take  it 
to  any  foreign  j^arts  or  bring  back  mercliandise  from  foreign  parts  to  the 
realm  without  penalty  or  forfeiture,  notwithstanding  the  act  in  the  late 
Parliament  at  Westminster  that  no  customer,  searcher,  controller  or 
surveyor  of  the  scrutiny,  or  their  clerk,  shall  buy  or  sell  by  way  of 
merchandise,  saving  to  the  king  the  customs  and  subsidies,  and  provided 
that  he  do  not  take  wools  or  wool-fells  to  any  foreign  parts  except  to 
the  staple  of  Calais  or  by  the  straits  of  Marroke.  By  p.s. 

Grant  to  William  Kerver,  Richard  Fowler,  Hugh  Fennc,  John  Forster 
and  Morgan  Kedwelly  and  their  heirs  and  assigns,  in  lieu  of  a  grant  to  the 
said  Richard,  Hugh,  John  and  Morgan  and  their  heirs  and  assigns  by 
letters  patent  dated  10  September,  1 1  Edward  IV.  surrendered,  of  five 
messuages  and  580  acres  of  land  in  Wallond  with  appurtenances  in  the 
parishes  of  Broklond,  Ivecliirche,  Oldrommene,  Midle,  Lydc,  Pountene  and 
Promehelle,  co.  Kent,  of  which  40  acres  are  in  the  hands  of  lleniy  atte 
Stone  at  Aghenesbrokke,  6  acres  in  the  hands  of  John  Legh,  a  moiety  of  9 
acres  in  two  pieces  in  the  hands  of  Adam  Gilbert  and  a  moiety  of  4  acres 
in  the  hands  of  John  Champion,  149  acres  of  pasture  and  meadow  in  the 
marsh  of  Romney  in  the  pari.shes  of  Rokynge,  Stane,  Orleston,  Newe- 
chirchc,  Ivechirche  and  Seyntmarichirche,  co.  Kent,  300  acres  of  salt  marsh 
in  tiic  parishes  of  Pountene,  Midle,  Lyde,  Promeh(dle  and  Broklond  afore- 
said by  iValloud  and  a  messuage  at  Engeham  and  400  acres  of  pasture,  62 
acres  of  meadow  and  10  acres  of  wood  in  the  parishes  of  Wodechirche  and 
Betherysdeu,  co.  Kent,  late  of  John  Engeham  late  of  Wodecliirch,  'gentil- 
man,'  and  in  the  king's  hands  by  reason  oi'  his  forfeiture  and  outlawry  for 
high  treason,  the  reversion  on  the  death  of  Agnes  late  the  wife  of  Alan 
Engeham  of  a  messuage  and  128  acres  of  land  in  the  parishes  of  Wode- 
chirche and  Halden,  co.  Kent,  which  she  holds  for  life  of  the  inheritance 
of  the  said  John  Engeham,  and  the  reversion  on  the  death  of  Agnes 
Robard,  late  the  wife  of  John  Robard  of  Cranebroke  and  mother  of  the  said 
John  Engeham,  of  certain  parcels  of  land  in  Wodechirche  called  'Morys- 
landes '  and  '  Pocheldredys  '  containing  60  acres,  certain  parcels  of  land  in 
Wodechirche  containing  50  acres  called  '  Inwoklcn,' 33  acres  of  land  in 
Wodcchurche  called  '  Bedynden,'  30  acres  of  land  in  Wodechurche  called 


15  EDWARD  IV.— Part  II. 


547 


1 475.  Membranes  6  and  5 — cont. 

'  Forelandys '  and  12  acres  of  land  in  Romenemersh  in  the  parishes  of 
Seyntmarichurche  and  Newechurche,  which  she  holds  for  life  of  the  in- 
heritance of  the  said  John  Engeham,  to  hold  bj  the  accustomed  services. 
And  if  ihe  above  shall  be  taken  from  them  in  any  way  tlicy  shall  receive 
100/.  yearly  at  the  receipt  of  the  Exchequer  until  recompensed  with  other 
lands  to  the  same  value.  By  K. 


Membrane  5 — cont. 

Oct.  9.  General  pardon  to  Richard  Redeworth  alias  Redesworth  of  Sowerby,  co. 
WestmiDster.  York,  '  yoman,'  of  all  offences  committed  by  him  before  4  October.   By  p.s. 

Oct.  8.         Grant  for  life  to  the  king's  servant  .John  Shorter,  one  of  the  yeomen  of 
Westminster,  the  king's  chamber,  of  the  office  of  ranger  in  the  king's  forest  of  Melchuyt, 
CO.  Wilts,  with  wages  of  6d.  daily,  as  John  Boston  had  for  the  same  office, 
from  Michaelmas  last  from  the  rent  of  serjeanty  which  the  sheriff'  of  the 
county  renders  yearly  at  the  Exchequer  and  from  the  issues  of  the  county. 

By  p.s. 

Sept.  18.  Grant  to  Gerard  Caniziani,  citizen  and  mercer  of  London,  in  repayment 
Westminster,  of  the  sum  of  1,000  marks  due  to  him  from  the  king,  as  appears  in  the 
receipt  of  the  Exchequer,  that  he  or  his  executors  after  his  decease  or  their 
factors  or  attorneys  may  ship  sacks  and  cloves  of  wool,  woollen  cloths,  pieces 
of  tin  and  fodders  of  lead  in  the  port  of  Suthampton  and  take  the  wools  by 
the  straits  of  Marrok  and  the  woollen  cloths,  tin  and  lead  to  any  ibrcigu 
parts  and  bring  back  other  merchandise  from  foreign  parts  to  the  said  port 
quit  of  customs  and  subsidies,  those  on  the  wool  at  the  rate  of  4  marks  for 
each  sack,  until  he  shall  thus  be  fully  satisfied  of  the  said  sum.         By  p.s. 

Oct.  4.        Appointmentracnt,  until  4  April,  of  Thomas  Markham,  esquire,  to  take 
Westminster,  sea  fish  and  fresh-water  fish  for  the  expenses  of  the  household  and  carrii\ge 
for  the  same.  By  bill  of  the  treasurer  of  the  household. 

Oct.  18.        Revocation  of  the  protection  with  clause  volumus,  for  one  year,  granted 
Westminster,  on  14  March  last  by  letters  patent  to  Richard  Marchall,  '  haberdassher,' 
citizen  of  London,  going  on  the  king's  service  beyond  the  seas  in  the  com- 
pany of  Thomas  Bowes,  clci  k  of  the  king's  ordnance,  because  he  delays  iu 
London,  as  Hugh  Brice  and  Robert  Colwyche,  sherifis,  have  certified. 

June  30.  Letters  of  denization  for  Christian  Colborne,  born  in  the  parts  of  Alniain. 
Westminster.  By  p.s.  and  for  40*.  paid  in  the  hanaper. 


Membrane  4. 

Nov.  12.       Confirmation  of  the  estate  of  George  Dauue,  chaplain,  in  the  canonry  and 
Westminster,  prebend  which  John  Walbronde,  clerk,  deceased,  hist  had  in  the  king's 
royal  chapol  of  St.  Stephen  within  the  palace  of  Westminster  and  to  which 
the  said  George  was  presented  by  the  king's  consort  Elizabeth,  queen  of 
England,  during  the  king's  absence  without  the  realm.  By  p.s. 

Nov.  8.        Grant  for  life  to  Marjory  Cobbe,  widow,  midwife  of  the  king's  consort 
Westminster.  Elizabeth,  queen  of  England,  of  10/.  yearly  from  the  issues  of  the  county  of 
Devon.  By  p.s. 

Nov.  9.  Grant  for  life  to  the  king's  counsellor  John  Howard,  lord  Howard,  knight, 
Westminster,  of  the  office  of  steward  of  the  manors  of  liethingham  at  the  Castle, 
Bentley,  Earl's  Cohie,  Stanstedo  Mounfiehet  and  Canfeld,  co.  Essex,  and 
Lavcnham,  co.  Suffolk,  and  all  courts  of  these  manors,  and  10/.  yearly  for 
the  said  office  from  the  said  manor  of  Lavenliam  from  Michaelmas  last;  iu 
lieu  of  a  grant  to  him  by  letters  patent  dated  2(i  August  {see  p.  515), 
surrendered.  By  K, 

M  M  2 


648 


CALENDAR  OF  PATENT  ROLLS. 


1475.  Membrane  4 — cont. 

Oct.  27.        Pardon  to  William  Haute,  knight,  sheriff  of  Kent,  of  all  offences  corn- 
Westminster,  mitted  by  him  and  all  issues,  fines,  amercements,  debts,  accounts  and  arrears 
due  from  him  to  the  king  by  reason  of  his  office  and  all  escapes  of  felons 
and  other  prisoners.  By  p.s. 

Nov.  10.  Pardon  to  the  king's  servant  Walter  Hungerford,  esquire,  to  whom  by 
Westminster,  letters  under  the  privy  seal  dated  17  January,  14  Edward  IV.  tlie  king 
granted  a  coppice  of  wood  and  underwood  called  '  Shortyngrovt'  within  the 
forest  of  Groveley,  co.  Wilts,  with  the  gi-oves  adjoining,  provided  that 
he  answer  to  the  king  for  the  value  of  the  same  reserving  to  himself  the 
sum  of  26/.  135.  4c/.  of  all  accounts  due  from  him  to  the  king  for  this. 

By  p.s. 

Oct.  16.  Grant  for  life  to  Thomas  Seyntleger,  one  of  the  esquires  of  the  body,  to 
Westminster,  whom  by  letters  patent  dated  4  {sic)  January,  2  Edward  IV.  the  king 
granted  the  custody  of  the  park  of  Guldford,  co.  Surrey,  and  the  herbage 
and  pannage  in  the  park  for  wages,  of  the  custody  of  divers  great  parcels 
of  land  newly  enclosed  and  imparked  and  annexed  to  the  park,  as  he  has 
had  since  the  time  of  their  annexation  without  regard  or  wages,  and  the 
custody  of  the  deer  in  the  same  and  the  herbage  and  pannage  in  the  same 
for  the  sustenance  of  the  deer  with  the  issues  and  profits  thereof;  and  grant 
to  him  also  of  the  king's  manor  of  Cleygate,  co.  Surrey,  with  all  members 
and  profits  in  the  parish  of  Assh,  co.  Surrey,  and  all  lands,  rents  and 
services  belonging  to  the  manor  and  the  fee  farm  which  the  men  and 
tenants  of  the  town  of  Guldford  pay  yearly  to  the  king,  to  hold  so  long  as 
he  shall  have  the  said  custody,  in  recompence  of  his  costs  and  charges  for 
the  sustenance  of  the  deer.  By  p.s. 

Nov.  1 5.       Pardon  to  Thomas,  bishop  of  Lincoln,  ordinary  of  the  diocese  of  Lincoln , 
Westminster,  for  the  escapes  of  all  felons  and  prisoners  committed  to  his  custody  or  the 
custody  of  his  predecessors.  By  K. 

Nov.  16.       Appointment  of  Thomas  Elryngton  to  execute  the  office  of  chief  butler 
Westminster,  of  England  in  the  port  of  Newcastle  upon  Tyne  and  all  ports,  places  and 
creeks  pertaining  to  the  same  in  the  place  of  A  nthony,  earl  of  Ry  vers,  chief 
butler,  who  is  occupied  on  certain  business  of  the  king. 

By  bill  of  the  chief  butler. 

Nov.  22.       Appointment  of  Thomas  Crofte  as  deputy  of  the  king's  kinsman  Anthony, 
Westminster,  earl  of  Riviers,  chief  butler  of  England,  who  is  otherwise  occupied  on  the 
king's  service,  in  the  ports  of  Exmuthe  and  Topesliam  and  ports  and  places 
adjacent,  receiving  the  accustomed  fees.  By  bill  of  the  chief  butler. 


Membrane  3. 

May  4.        General  pardon  to  John  Gwynne  late  of  London,  '  yoman.'  By  p.s. 

^Westminster. 

Oct.  14.  Revocation  of  the  protection  with  clause  volumus,  for  one  year,  granted 
Westminster,  on  22  June  last  by  letters  patent  to  Thomas  Sayer  late  of  Suthwerk,  co. 

Surrey,  going  beyond  the  seas  on  the  king's  service  in  the  company  of  John 
Audeley,  lord  of  Audeley,  because  he  delays  in  the  county  of  Surrey,  as 
Thomas  Echyngham,  knight,  sheriff  of  Surrey,  has  certified. 

Oct.  22.  General  pardon  to  Matthew  Petit  late  of  Fowey,  co.  Cornwall,  '  maryuer,' 
Westminster,  alias  '  shipraan,'  of  all  offences  committed  by  him  before  21  October. 

By  p.s. 

Oct.  25.        Eevocation  of  the  protection  with  clause  volumus,  for  one  year,  granted 
Westminster,  on  4  May  last  by  letters  patent  to  Robert  Mortcmer,  esquire,  alias  Robert 
Mortymer  of  the  county  of  Essex,  '  gcntylman,' poing  to  France  on  the 
king's  service  in  the  company  of  John  Howard,  knight,  lord  of  Howard, 


16  EDWARD  IV.— Part  II. 


549 


1475.  Membrane  3 — cont. 

because  he  delays  in  the  city  and  suburbs  of  London,  as  appears  by 
certificate  of  the  sheriflFs. 

Oct.  24.  Pardon  to  Thomas  Dryffelde  late  of  New  Wyndesore,  co.  Middlesex, 
Westminster.  « yoman,'  alias  Thomas  DrufFeld  late  of  New  Wyndesore,  co.  Berks,  of  his 
double  outlawry  in  the  county  of  Middlesex  for  not  appearing  before  the 
king  to  satisfy  him  for  certain  trespasses,  he  having  surrendered  to  the 
Marshalsea  prison,  as  Thomas  Billyng,  chief  justice  of  the  King's  Bench, 
has  certified. 

Oct.  25.        Grant  for  life  to  the  king's  clerk  Oliver  Kyng  of  the  alien  priories  of 
Westminster.  St.  Helier,  Lay  and  St.  Peter  in  the  island  of  Gersey  or  Jerze,  and  all 
lordships,  manors,  lands,  rents,  services,  advowsons,  wards,  marriages, 
reliefs,  escheats,  courts,  leets,  markets,  wreck  of  sea,  liberties,  franchises, 
commodities  and  emoluments  belonging  to  them.  By  K. 

Oct.  30.        Pardon  to  Thomas  Wymbissh,  esquire,  late  sheriff  of  Lincoln,  of  all 
Westminster.  ofPences  committed  by  him  by  reason  of  his  office,  and  all  issues,  fines, 
amercements,  debts,  accounts  and_arrears  due  from  him  to  the  king.   By  p.s. 

April  29.  Grant  to  Thomas  Yong,  one  of  the  justices  of  the  King's  Bench,  for  the 
Westminster,  better  maintenance  of  his  estate  and  expenses  in  office,  of  110  marks  yearly 
at  the  hands  of  the  clerk  or  keeper  of  the  hanaper  or  the  customers  in  the 
ports  of  London,  Bristol  and  Kyngeston  on  Hull  according  to  the  form  of 
an  act  in  Parliament  at  Westminster,  18  Henry  VI.  and  106s.  ll^r/.  and 
the  sixth  part  of  \d.  yearly  at  Christmas  for  a  robe  with  fur  and  06*.  6J. 
yearly  at  Whitsuntide  for  a  robe  with  lining. 

Oct.  28.         Grant  for  life  to  Robert  Grene,  king's  minstrel,  of  10  marks  yearly  from 
Westminster.  Michaelmas,  13  Edward  IV.  from  the  fee  farm  of  the  city  of  Norwich  and 
the  augmentation  of  the  rent  of  the  same,  in  lieu  of  another  grant  to  him 
of  10  marks  yearly  by  letters  patent  dated  6  February,  14  Edward  IV. 
surrendered  because  invalid.  By  p.s. 

Mandate  in  pursuance  to  the  sheriffs  and  bailiffs  of  the  city  of  Norwich. 


Membrane  2. 


June  12. 
Canterbury. 


Sept.  14. 
Westminster. 


Sept.  25. 
Westminster. 


Grant  to  the  king's  brother  Richard,  duke  of  Gloucester,  and  the  heirs 
of  his  body  of  the  honour,  castle,  manor  and  lordship  of  Skipton  in  Craven 
and  the  manor  of  Marton  in  Craven,  co.  York,  and  all  towns,  townships, 
hamlets,  lands,  rents,  services,  reversions,  knights'  fees,  advow.sons,  fees,  foe 
farms,  offices,  franchises,  liberties,  mines  of  coal  and  lead  and  other  pos- 
ses.sions  and  hereditaments  belonging  to  the  .same,  or  in  Craven,  co.  York, 
lixtcly  belonging  to  John  Cliffoni,  knight,  late  lord  Clifford,  on  29  March, 
1  Edward  IV,  and  in  the  king's  hands  by  virtue  of  an  act  in  Parliament  at 
Westminster,  4  November,  1  Edward  IV.  and  also  all  waifs,  strays,  goods  and 
chattels  of  felons,  fugitives  and  outlaws,  doodands  and  treasure  trove,  free 
warren  and  free  chacc,  and  returns  of  writs  and  executions  of  them  within 
the  same.  By  p.s. 

Grant  to  the  king's  kinsman  Thomas,  archbishop  of  Canterbury,  and  the 
king's  uncle  Henry,  earl  of  Essex,  of  the  collation  to  the  next  vacant 
prebend  in  the  king's  collegiate  chapel  of  St.  Mary  and  St.  George  the 
Martyr  within  the  castle  of  Windsor.  By  K. 

Pardon  to  John  Wode,  esquire,  master  of  the  king's  ordnance,  of  all 
actions  which  the  king  may  have  against  him  for  the  said  ordnance  or  any 
stuff,  habiliments  or  tiling's  provided  for  them  or  for  the  detention,  breakage 
or  loss  of  the  same,  and  all  debts,  accounts  and  arrears  due  from  him  to  the 
king  iu  this.  By  K. 


550 


CALENDAR  OF  PATENT  ROLLS. 


1475.  Membrane  2 — cont. 

July  8.         Appointment  of  Richard  Fenys,  lord  of  Dacre,  as  one  of  the  king's 
Westminster,  councillors,  and  grant  to  him  of  100  marks  yearly  during  pleasure  from  the 
customs  and  subsidies  in  the  port  of  London.  By  p.s. 

Sept.  29.  General  pardon  to  Robert  Russelle  late  of  Holme,  co.  Cumberland, 
Westminster.   <  yoman.'  By  p.s. 

Sept.  27.  Grant  to  the  king's  servant  Thomas  Fouler,  esquire,  usher  of  the  king's 
Westminster,  chamber,  of  the  custody  of  the  lands  and  goods  of  Richard  Preston, 
'  gentilman,'  who  is  an  idiot,  as  appears  by  an  inquisition  returned  into  the 
Exchequer,  so  long  as  they  remain  in  the  king's  hands,  finding  a  competent 
sustenance  for  the  said  Richard  and  keeping  up  the  houses,  enclosures  and 
buildings  and  all  other  charges.  By  K. 

Grant  for  life  to  George  Lovekyn  of  London,  '  taillour,'  of  the  office  of 
Serjeant  tailor  in  the  great  wardrobe,  receiving  \2d.  daily  from  the  issues 
of  the  counties  of  Somerset  and  Dorset,  and  also  IOO5.  yearly  from  the 
same  issues  for  a  house  within  the  city  of  London,  with  liveries  of  winter 
and  summer  vesture  at  the  hands  of  the  keeper  of  the  great  wardrobe 
and  all  other  profits.  By  p.s. 


Membrane  1. 


Nov.  10. 

Westminster. 


Nov.  12. 

Westminster. 


Nov.  17. 

Westminster. 


Nov.  16. 

Westminster. 


Nov.  27. 
Westminster. 


Mandate  to  the  escheator  in  the  county  of  York  for  the  restitution  of  the 
temporalities  of  the  abbey  of  SS.  Peter  and  Hilda,  Whitby,  to  Dan  William 
Colsone,  monk  of  the  monastery,  whose  election  as  abbot  George,  archbishop 
of  York,  has  confirmed  and  whose  fealty  the  king  has  ordered  to  be  taken 
by  the  prior  of  Gysburn.  By  p.s. 

The  like  to  the  following  : — 

The  escheator  in  the  county  of  Lincoln. 

The  mayor  and  escheator  in  the  city  of  York. 
Writ  de  ivtendendo  in  pursuance  to  the  tenants. 

Mandate  to  the  escheator  in  the  counties  of  Somerset  and  Dorset  for  the 
restitution  of  the  temporalities  of  the  abbey  of  Shirborn  to  Dan  Peter 
Rampsham,  monk  of  the  monastery,  whose  election  as  abbot  Richard, 
bishop  of  Salisbury,  has  confirmed  and  whose  fealty  the  king  has  taken. 

By  p.s. 

The  like  to  the  escheator  in  the  county  of  Devon. 
Writ  de  intendendo  in  pursuance  to  the  tenants. 

Licence  for  the  king's  brothers  George,  duke  of  Clarence,  and  Richard, 
duke  of  Gloucester,  and  their  wives  Isabel  and  Anne,  kinswomen  and 
heiresses  of  Thomas,  late  earl  of  Salisbury,  to  enter  freely  into  all  castles, 
lordships,  honours,  alien  priories,  lands,  rents,  reversions,  services,  fisheries, 
mills,  rights,  pensions,  portions,  forests,  offices,  courts,  leets,  views  of 
frank-pledge,  returns  of  writs,  chaces,  advovvsous,  knights'  fees,  j^ossessions 
and  hereditaments  which  should  descend  to  the  said  Isabel  and  Anne  on 
the  death  of  the  said  Tliomas  or  Alice,  late  countess  of  Salisbury,  his 
daughter  and  heiress,  or  Alice,  late  duchess  of  Suffolk,  his  wife,  with  all 
issues  from  the  death  of  the  said  duchess  of  Suffolk  or  any  of  their 
ancestors.  By  p.s. 

Presentation  of  Thomas  Barker,  parson  of  the  parish  church  of  Petworth, 
in  the  diocese  of  Chichester,  to  one  of  the  chantries  called  '  Mortymers 
Chauntryes  '  within  the  cathedral  church  of  Chichester,  on  an  exchange  of 
benefices  with  William  Baker. 

Whereas  the  abbot  and  convent  of  the  monastery  of  St.  Mary,  Teukcsbi:;  }-, 
CO.  Gloucester,  were  seised  in  their  demesne  as  of  fee  of  the  priory  of 


15  EDWARD  IV.— Part  II. 


551 


1475. 


Nov.  27. 
Westminster. 

Nov.  28. 
Westminster. 


Dec.  2. 
Westminster. 

Dec.  3. 
Westminster. 


Nov.  19. 

Westminster. 


Dec.  6. 
Westminster. 


Membrane  1 — cont. 

Goldclyff  in  North  Wales  aud  the  manor  of  GoldclyflP  and  Goldre  there  and 
relinquished  them  to  the  king,  who  afterwards  granted  them  to  the  provost 
and  brethren  of  the  college  of  St.  Mary,  Eton  by  Windsor,  and  in  recom- 
pence  for  this  the  king  by  letters  patent  dated  25  July  7  Edward  IV. 
granted  to  the  said  abbot  and  convent  the  priorj'  of  Derhurst,  co.  Gloucester, 
with  all  its  appurtenances ;  and  now  the  said  abbot  and  convent  being 
seised  of  the  manors  of  Membury,  co.  Devon,  and  Preston  and  Monkeselver, 
CO.  Somerset,  and  the  rectories  of  Puryton  and  WoUaviuton,  co.  Somerset, 
parcel  of  tlie  said  priory  of  Goldclyff,  have  relinqui.shed  them  to  the  king, 
who  has  granted  them  to  the  dean  and  canons  of  his  free  chapel  of  St.  George 
within  the  castle  of  Wyndesore;  the  king  hereby  promises  that  the  said 
abbot  and  convent  shajl  hold  the  said  priory  of  Derhurst  with  its  lordships, 
manors  and  members  without  any  vexation,  interruption  or  disturbance, 
and  grants  licence  for  them  to  sue  the  abbot  and  convent  of  St.  Denis  in 
France  for  the  release  to  them  of  the  priory  and  to  sue  the  pope  and  all 
others  whom  it  may  concern  for  the  annexation  of  the  priory  to  their 
monastery.  By  K. 

Grant  for  life  to  the  king's  servant  Peter  Wraton,  yeoman  of  the  crown, 
of  a  house  under  the  Exchequer  at  Westminster  with  a  door  towards  the 
king's  palace  there  and  near  a  house  called  '  Helle.'  By  p.s. 

Grant  for  life  to  Gilbert  Husc  of  the  reversion  of  the  office  of  bailiff  of 
the  skiviuage  and  island  of  Colne  without  the  town  of  Calais  on  the  death 
of  the  king's  servant  William  Worsley,  to  whom  the  same  was  granted  by 
letters  patent  dated  15  April  1  Edward  IV.  [French  Roll,  1  Edward  IV. 
m.  35.]  By  p.s. 

Vacated  because  surrendered  and  cancelled. 

Grant  for  life  to  Robert  Fletcher  of  all  the  lands  in  the  town  and  field.i 
of  Teversham,  co.  Cambridge,  forfeited  to  the  king  and  in  his  hands  by  the 
rebellion  of  John  Ball  late  of  that  county.  By  i).s. 

Grant  to  John  Bedalc,  canon  and  prebendary  of  Sutton  in  the  cathedral 
church  of  Chichester,  of  a  canonry  and  prebend  in  the  king's  free  cliapel 
of  St.  Stephen  within  the  palace  of  Westminster,  on  an  exchange  of 
prebends  with  George  Dawne. 

Mandate  in  pursuance  to  the  dean  of  the  chapel. 

Pardon  to  John  Conyers  of  Hornby,  co.  York,  knight,  alias  of  Whorlton, 
CO.  York,  late  sheriff  of  York,  of  all  offences  committed  by  him  and  all 
debts,  accounts,  fines  and  amercements  due  from  him  to  the  king  by  reason 
of  his  office.  By  p.s. 

Revocation  of  the  protection  with  clause  voltimus,  for  one  year,  lately 
granted  by  letters  patent  to  William  Sturmy  late  of  Knoll,  co.  Wilts, 
'  gentihuan,'  going  beyond  (he  seas  in  the  king's  company,  because  he  delays 
at  Westminster,  as  Robert  Colwych  and  Hugh  Brycc,  sherifis  of  ^Middlesex, 
have  certified. 


Membrane  15d. 

June  8.        Commission  to  John  Scotte,  knight,  John  Donne,  knight,  and  Tiiomas 
Canterbury.    Thwaytes  to  take  muster  of  104  archers  of  the  retinue  of  William  Ilastynges 
of  Hastyngcs,  knight,  in  any  convenient  place  near  Calais  and  to  certify 
thereon  to  the  king. 

June  12.        Commission  to  the  king's  kinsman  William,  earl  of  Arundel,  William 
Canterbury.    Stouvion  of  Stourton,  kni^^ht,  Henry  Ros,  knight,  and  J]dward  Barkeley  to 
take  muster  of  .John  Audelcy  of  Audeley,  knight,  and  Galliard  Dureford, 
lord  of  Duras,  knight,  and  2,000  men  at  arms,  armed  men  and  archers  of 


552 


CALENDAR  OF  PATENT  ROLLS. 


1475.  Membrane  15(? — cont. 

their  retinue  going  to  Brittany  at  any  convenient  place  near  Falmouth  and 
to  certify  thereon  to  the  king  with  ail  haste. 

June  23.  The  like  to  "William  Stourton  of  Stourton,  knight,  Edward  Berkeley* 
Westminster.  John  Bygonell,  John  Mone,  William  Brounyng,  Thomas  Martyn,  John 

Russell,  William  Erneley,  Richard  Harper  and  Robert  Lytton,  at  any 

convenient  place  near  Weymouth. 

Membrane  9d. 

Aug.  25.  Commission  to  Thomas  Breux,  knight,  William  Joce,  esquire,  Benedict 
Westminster,  Caldewell,  Robert  a  Wode  and  the  sheriff  of  Suffolk  to  enquire  about  all 
castles,  honours,  lordships,  manors,  lands,  rents,  reversions  and  services  in 
the  said  county  belonging  to  the  king  by  reason  of  the  forfeiture  of  John, 
late  earl  of  Oxford,  attainted  of  high  treason  by  an  act  in  Parliament  at 
Westminster,  6  November,  12  Edward  IV.  what  they  are  worth  and  of 
whom  they  are  held  and  by  what  services  and  who  has  received  the  issues 
from  that  date. 

Aug.  29.        Commission  to  Thomas  Ussher  and  Geoffrey  Kent  to  take  certain  ships 
Westminster,  in  certain  ports  and  creeks  of  the  counties  of  Essex  and  Suffolk  and 
masters  and  mariners  and  gear  for  them  and  to  take  them  to  the  port  of 
Calais  with  all  haste  and  certify  thereon  to  the  king  and  council. 

Membrane  Id. 

Nov.  29.  Commission  to  Robert  Wylughby,  knight,  Henry  Bodrugan,  knight, 
Westminster.  John  Carmynewe,  Thomas  Tregarthen  and  tlie  sheriff  of  Cornwall  to  arrest 
Thomas  Flete  and  Thomas  Kuyght,  convicted  of  certain  riots  and  offences 
by  authority  of  the  last  Parliament  at  Westminster,  and  Thomas  Clemens 
and  bring  them  before  the  king  and  council  and  to  release  Joan  late 
the  wife  of  Thomas  Q-lyn,  imprisoned  by  the  said  Thomas  Clemens,  and  set 
her  at  liberty. 

Sept.  3.        The  like  to  Thomas  Delamare,  knight,  and  Thomas  Langford,  esquire,  to 
Westminster,  arrest  Robert  TuguU  late  of  Hungerford,  co.  Berks,  merchant,  alias  Robert 
TuguU  the  younger,  '  clothier,'  alias  late  of  Hungerford,  co.  Wilts,  and 
bring  him  before  the  king  and  council. 

Dec.  8.  The  like  to  William  Courtenay,  knight,  John  Crokker,  knight,  Charles 
Westminster.  Dynham,  esquire,  Bartholomew  Seyntlegcr,  esquire,  Richard  Pomeray, 
esquire,  Nicholas  Sancle,  esquire,  John  Gybbys,  esquire,  William  Cotfyn, 
esquire,  John  Giffard  of  Hallisbyn,  esquire,  and  the  slieriff  of  Devon  to 
arrest  Ricliard  AUer,  Richard  Wode,  William  Pitteford,  Laurence  Yonge, 
Hugh  Broun,  Walter  Whitelok,  Nicholas  Michell,  Simon  Whiddon  and 
Richard  Gunner  and  bring  them  before  the  king  and  council  to  answer  for 
certain  riots  and  offences. 

Nov.  24.        Appointment,  during  pleasure,  of  William  Bekley  and  William  Wolcey 
Westminster,  to  take  carpenters  called  '  kervers'  and  other  carpenters  for  the  king's  works 
within  the  castle  of  Wyndesorc. 


fi63 


15  EDWARD  IV.— Part  III. 


1475.  Membrane  19. 

May  26.  Licence  for  Richard,  bishop  of  Salisbury,  Walter  Devereaux,  knight, 
Westminster,  lord  Ferrers,  Master  Alexander  Legb,  parson  of  the  parish  church  of 
St.  Bride,  Fletestrete,  London,  William  Notyngham,  Thomas  Tremayll, 
Thomas  Bayen,  John  Pyrules,  chaplain,  Thomas  Gay,  Thomas  Robyn.s, 
John  Cotman,  Robert  Pigraer,  John  Martyn,  William  Hayford,  William 
Trevistan,  William  Vale,  John  Olyver,  Robert  Bradmer,  Robert  Bowier, 
John  Carter,  William  Hampton  and  Thomas  Wiseman  to  found  a  fraternity 
or  perpetual  gild  in  the  said  church  of  St.  Bride  and  to  receive  any 
men  and  women  who  may  wish  to  be  brethren  and  sisters  of  the 
gild  with  any  goods  and  chattels  granted  to  it.  The  brethren  and 
sisters  shall  each  year  elect  from  among  themselves  a  master  and  two 
wardens  for  the  governance  of  the  gild  and  the  custody  of  its  goods  and 
lands,  with  power  to  remove  them  and  appoint  others,  and  they  shall  form 
one  body  by  the  name  of  the  fraternity  or  gild  of  St.  Mary  in  the  church 
of  St.  Bride  and  shall  have  a  common  seal  and  perpetual  succession  and 
power  of  acquiring  lands,  rents  and  other  possessions  and  of  impleading 
and  being  impleaded.  And  they  shall  have  power  to  meet  together  to 
make  ordinances  for  the  fraternity  and  to  dress  themselves  in  clotli  of  one 
suit  and  to  meet  to  eat  and  drink  together  in  a  suitable  place  within  the 
parish  and  to  support  one  or  two  chaplains  to  celebrate  divine  service  at 
the  altar  of  St.  Mary  in  the  north  part  of  the  said  church  and  do  other 
works  of  piety  there  for  the  good  estate  of  the  king  and  the  said  founders 
and  the  brethren  and  sisters  of  the  gild  and  for  their  souls  after  death. 

By  p.s. 

June  29.       Pardon  to  Anthony  Widvylle,  earl  of  Ryverz,  lord  of  Scalerz  of  Nucellez, 
Westminsfer.  and  of  the  Isle  of  Wight,  chief  butler  of  England,  of  all  offences  committed 
by  him  against  the  statutes  of  liveries  and  retinues  and  all  entries  by  him 
into  any  lordships,  lands,  advovvsons,  knights'  fees,  franchises  and  other 
possessions  belonging  to  the  king  before  24  May.  By  p.s. 

May  24.        Grant  to  .fames,  bishop  of  Norwich,  Hugh  Hunt,  John  Freman  and  their 
Westminster,  assigns  of  the  collation  to  the  next  vacant  cononry  and  prebend  in  the  king's 
college  of  Tamworth,  co.  Warwick.  Jiy  p.s. 

July  2.  General  pardon  to  Robert  Foster  late  of  Bynbroke,  co.  Lincoln, 
Westminster.  '  husbondman,'  alias  '  yoman,'  alias  *  laborer.'  By  p.s. 

March  11.  Grant  in  frank  almoin  to  William  Westbury,  the  provost,  and  the  college 
Westminster,  of  St.  Mary,  Eton  by  Windsor,  of  two  parts  of  a  place,  wharf,  crane,  houses, 
and  tenement  with  all  appurtenances,  profits  and  commodities  in  the  parish 
of  St.  Martin  in  le  Vyntyre,  London,  saving  the  right  of  Anthony  Wydevile, 
earl  Riviers,  lord  of  Scales,  Nusels  and  the  Isle  of  Wight,  and  his  heirs  in 
the  third  part.  By  p.s. 

July  21.  Appointment,  during  pleasure,  of  John  Sylkton  as  controller  of  the  great 
Westminster,  and  petty  custom,  the  subsidy  of  wools,  hides  and  wool-fells  and  the  subsidy 
of  the  3s.  in  the  tun  and  the  I2d.  in  the  pound  in  the  port  of  Chichester 
and  ports  and  places  adjacent,  receiving  the  accustomed  fees,  provided 
that  he  execute  the  office  in  person,  with  the  custody  of  one  part  of  the  coket 
seal.  By  bill  of  the  treasurer. 


554 


CALENDAE  OF  PATENT  ROLLS. 


1475. 


Oct.  17. 

Westminster. 

Nov.  10. 

Westminster. 

1476. 

March  1. 
Westminster. 

Feb.  27. 
Westminster. 

1475. 

Sept.  29. 
Westminster. 


Oct.  11. 

Westminster. 

Nov.  4. 

Westminster. 


Membrane  19 — cont. 

The  like  of  the  following  in  the  ports  named  and  ports  and  places 
adjacent : — 

Richard  Heryson  in  the  ports  of  Exeter  and  Dertmouth. 

By  bill  of  the  treasurer. 

Nicholas  Warynges  in  the  port  of  Bristol.       By  bill  of  the  treasurer. 


Thomas  Asshe  in  the  port  of  Bristol. 


By  bill  of  the  treasurer 


Thomas  Bere  in  the  port  of  Newcastle  upon  Tyne. 

By  bill  of  the  treasurer. 

The  like  of  Richard  Danvers  as  controller  of  the  subsidy  of  the  3s.  in  the 
tun  and  the  12c?.  in  the  pound  in  the  port  of  London  and  ports  and  places 
adjacent.  By  bill  of  the  treasurer. 

Signification  to  G.  archbishop  of  York  of  the  royal  assent  to  the  election 
of  Dan  William  Colson,  monk  of  the  monastery  of  SS.  Peter  and  Hilda, 
Whitby,  as  abbot  of  the  monastery.  By  p.s. 

Signification  to  R.  bishop  of  Salisbury  of  the  royal  assent  to  the  election 
of  Peter  Rampsham,  monk  of  the  monastery  of  Shirborne,  as  abbot  of  the 
monastery.  By  p.s. 


Membrane  18. 

Oct.  29.  Grant  to  the  king's  kinsv^oman  Anne,  duchess  of  Buckingham,  who  is 
Westminster,  willing  to  undertake  the  governance  and  tuition  and  support  the  expenses 
of  the  king's  kinsman  Edward,  earl  of  Wiltshire,  son  and  heir  of  John, 
late  earl  of  Wiltshire,  tenant  in  chief,  and  has  done  so  from  the  time 
of  the  death  of  the  said  late  earl,  of  50/.  yearly  from  Michaelmas, 
14  Edward  IV.  from  the  issues  of  the  manors  of  Stanford  Ryvers,  Tracies, 
Suttons  and  Brigges  and  two  messuages  called  *  Pyggeslond  '  and  '  Bolleis  ' 
and  four  other  messuages,  four  tofts,  1,000  acres  of  land,  40  acres  of 
meadow  and  200  acres  of  wood  in  Stanford  Ryvers  and  High  Ongre, 
CO.  Essex,  in  the  king's  custody  by  reason  of  the  minority  of  the  said  earl, 
so  long  as  she  shall  have  his  governance.  By  K. 

Oct.  30.  Grant  for  life  to  the  king's  counsellor  Master  John  Coke,  doctor  of  laws, 
Westminster,  of  the  office  of  secondary  in  the  office  of  the  privy  seal,  with  wages  of  40/. 

yearly  from  11  August  last  at  I  the  hands  of  the  collectors  of  the  subsidy 
of  tonnage  and  poundage  in  the  port  of  London,  and  a  livery  of  vesture 
yearly  at  Christmas  at  tlie  great  wardrobe  viz.  8  long  yards  of  cloth  of  colour 
with  a  fur  [hood]  of  '  bys  '  of  seven  tires  {ti/mbris),  as  Master  Thomas  Kent, 
late  secondary  in  the  said  office,  had.  By  p.s.  [4251.] 

Oct.  10.  Ordinance  that  henceforth  among  the  offices  of  the  order  of  the  Garter 
Westminster,  there  shall  be  an  office  of  chancellor,  and  appointment  for  life  of  the  king's 
kinsman,  Richard  Beauchamp,  bishop  of  Salisbury,  as  chancellor  of  the 
order,  with  provision  that  after  his  death  his  successors  the  bishojis  of 
Salisbury  shall  be  chancellors,  .is  the  chapel  of  St.  George  in  the  royal 
castle  of  Windsor  in  which  the  order  is  founded  is  within  the  diocese  of 
Salisbury,  provided  that  this  bo  not  to  the  prejudice  of  the  bishop  of 
Winchester.    French.  By  p.s. 

Nov.  5.        Grant  for  life  to  Humphrey  Grahame,  chaplain,  born  in  Scotland,  that 
Westminster,  he  may  freely  dwell  within  the  realm  of  England,  the  town  of  Calais  and 
the  limits  of  the  same  and  other  places  subject  to  the  king  and  accept 


15  EDWAED  IV.— Part  III. 


6b6 


1475. 


Oct.  26. 
Westminster. 


Nov.  5. 

Westminster. 


Nov.  6. 

Westminster. 


Oct.  28. 

Westminster. 


Nov.  6. 
Westminster. 

Nov.  8. 
Westminster. 

Nov.  12. 
Westminster. 


Membrane  18 — cont. 

benefices  below  the  dignity  of  the  deanery  of  a  cathedral  church  and  enjoy 
his  goods  and  possessions.  By  K. 

Appointment,  until  26  April,  of  William  Mathews,  yeoman  purveyor  of 
the  carriage  of  the  household,  to  take  two-wheeled  carts,  long  carts,  horses 
and  oxen  and  other  necessaries  for  his  office. 

By  bill  of  the  treasurer  of  the  household. 

Grant  for  life  to  Geoffrey  Gate,  knight,  of  the  offices  of  receiver  of  the 
revenues  of  the  king's  lordships  of  Marke  and  Oye  with  the  seven  parishes 
annexed,  searcher  within  the  town  of  Calais  and  the  water  of  Gravelyng 
within  and  without  the  skivinage  in  the  marsh,  and  high  bailiff  of  the  said 
lordships  with  the  parishes,  receiving  the  accustomed  fees  from  the  issues 
of  the  lordships  with  all  other  profits.  By  p.s. 

Vacated  because  on  the  French  Boll. 

Pardon  to  Thomas  Phelip  alias  Philipp  alias  Phylypp  late  of  Lucton, 
CO.  Somerset,  esquire,  late  escheator  in  the  counties  of  Somerset  and  Dorset, 
of  all  debts,  fines,  amercements,  accounts  and  arrears  due  from  him  to  the 
king  by  reason  of  his  office.  By  K. 

Grant  to  the  king's  servant  Master  Dominic  de  Serego,  physician  to  the 
king  and  his  consort,  to  whom  for  his  good  service  to  the  king  and  his 
consort  and  daughters  the  king  on  12  December,  7  Edward  IV.  granted 
an  annuity  of  40/.  during  pleasure  from  Michaelmas  then  last  past  at 
the  hands  of  the  treasurer  and  chamberlains  of  the  Exchequer,  of  the 
sum  of  53/.  ijs.  8d.  from  the  customs  and  subsidies  on  certain  merchandise 
coming  in  any  galleys  of  Venice  or  carracks  to  the  ports  of  London  and 
Suthampton,  in  payment  of  arrears  of  such  annuity.  By  p.g. 

Mandate  to  all  bailiffs  and  others  to  permit  John  Kyd,  chaplain,  born  in 
Scotland,  at  present  dwelling  in  England,  who  has  taken  an  oath  of  fealty, 
to  inhabit  the  realm  and  enjoy  his  goods. 

Inspeximus  and  confirmation  to  the  men  and  burgesses  of  the  town  of 
Bureford  of  letters  patent  dated  3  July,  24  Edward  III.  inspecting  and 
confirming  two  charters  of  Henry  II.       For  265.  8</.  paid  in  the  hanaper. 

Grant  to  the  king's  servant  James  Haryngton,  knight,  of  340/.  from  the 
issues  of  the  county  of  York.  By  p.s. 


Membrane  17. 

Nov.  13.        Grant  to  the  king's  servant  Thomas  Gale  of  Dertemouth  that  he  or  big 

Westminster,  factors  or  attorneys  may  ship  woollen  cloths,  pieces  of  tin  and  fodders  of 
lead  and  other  merchandise  not  of  the  staple  of  Calais  in  the  i)orts  of  Exeter 
and  Dertemouth,  Plymmouth  and  Fowey  and  take  the  same  to  foreign 
parts  and  bring  back  other  merchandise  to  the  said  ports  quit  of  customs 
and  subsidies  to  the  sum  of  30/.  By  p.s. 

Nov.  6.        Grant  for  life  to  Robert  Rokley  and  William  Roklcy  his  son  of  the  office 

Westminster,  of  ranger  of  the  forest  of  Lee,  co.  Rutland,  (tUas  the  forest  of  Rutland,  and 
wages  of  2d.  daily  from  26  May  last  from  the  issues  of  the  county  of 
Rutland,  with  all  other  profits ;  in  lieu  of  a  like  grant  to  them  by  letters 
patent  dated  26  May,  surrendered  because  invalid.  By  K. 

Mandate  in  pursuance  to  the  sheriff. 

Nov.  8.  Appointment,  during  pleasure,  of  Roger  Appulton,  esquire,  as  master  and 
Westminster,  surveyor  of  the  repair  and  building  of  the  king's  manor  of  Eltham,  co. 

Kent,  receiving  daily  as  the  king  shall  please,  with  power  to  take 
stonecutters,  plumbers,  car[)enters,  masons  and  olher  officers  and  laboui-crs 
for  the  works  and  stones,  timber,  tiles,  glass,  iron,  lead  and  other  necessaries 


556 


CALENDAR  OF  PATENT  ROLLS. 


1475.  Membrane  17 — cont. 

and  carriage  for  the  same,  rendering  his  account  before  certain  persons 
appointed  by  the  king.  By  p.s. 

Nov.  16.  Pardon  to  Roger  Ree,  knight,  alias  late  esquire,  late  one  of  the  ushers 
Westminster,  of  the  king's  chamber,  aliat  late  sheritF  of  Norfolk  and  Suffolk,  alias  late 
escheator  in  the  counties  of  Essex  and  Hertford,  alias  late  sheriff  of 
Essex  and  Hertford,  alias  late  occupier  of  the  hundred  of  Berestaple,  co. 
Essex,  of  all  offences  committed  by  him  and  all  fines,  amercements,  issues, 
reliefs,  scutages,  debts,  accounts  and  arrears  due  from  him  to  the  king. 

By  K. 

Nov.  17.  General  pardon  to  Christopher  Saunder  of  St.  Laurence,  co.  Kent, 
Westminster.  '  yoman,'  alias  late  of  Canterbury,  co.  Kent,  alias  late  of  Mynster,  co. 

Kent,  of  all  offences  committed  by  him  before  14  November.  By  p.s. 

Nov.  18.       Revocation  of  the  protection  with  clause  volumus,  for  one  year,  granted 
Westminster,  on  15  April  last  by  letters  patent  to  William  Brandon,  knight,  going 
beyond  the  seas  in  the  king's  company,  because  he  delays  in  the  county  of 
Middlesex,  as  Robert  Colwich  and  Hugh  Brice,  sheriffs,  have  certified. 

Nov.  20.       Mandate  to  all  bailiffs  and  others  to  permit  William  Tomson,  born  at 
Westminster.  Berwyk  in  Scotland,  dwelling  at  Bernestowne,  co.  York,  who  has  taken  an 
oath  of  fealty,  to  inhabit  the  realm  peaceably  and  enjoy  his  goods. 


Membrane  16. 

June  26.  Grant  to  William  Stanley,  knight  of  the  body,  and  the  heirs  male  of  his 
Westminster,  body  of  the  manors  of  Hornemede  in  Hornemede,  co.  Hertford,  and 
Enhalle,  co.  Cambridge,  a  messuage  called  '  Chardakerhall '  and  a  tenement 
annexed  to  it  called  '  Reueles  '  in  Shymplenge,  a  tenement  called '  Gyffardes  ' 
in  Shymplenge,  Stande  and  Boxstedes,  two  tenements  called  '  Cokes '  and 
*  Valauntes  '  in  Hertest  and  a  tenement  called '  Boxstedes  '  in  Boxstedes,  co. 
Suffolk,  and  the  manor  or  lordship  of  Plete  by  Sandwich,  co.  Kent,  with 
all  towns,  townships,  hamlets,  messuages,  lands,  meadows,  feedings, 
pastures,  woods,  waters,  stanks,  stews,  mills,  gardens,  dovecotes,  rents, 
services,  reversions,  courts,  leets,  offices,  views  of  frank-pledge,  escheats, 
liberties,  franchises,  rights,  commodities,  knights'  fees,  advowsons,  wards, 
marriages,  scutages,  reliefs,  hundreds,  wapentakes,  fairs,  markets,  places, 
parks,  warrens,  fisheries  and  other  emoluments  and  customs,  and  all  issues 
due  to  the  king  before  this  date.  By  K. 

July  20.  Grant  for  life  to  the  king's  brother  Richard,  duke  of  Gloucester,  in 
Westminster,  lieu  of  another  grant  of  the  same  office  to  him  by  letters  patent  dated 
18  February,  14  Edward  IV.  surrendered,  of  the  office  of  i?heriff  of  the 
county  of  Cumberland,  with  power  each  ,'year  on  the  morrow  of  All  Souls 
to  appoint  an  under-sheriff  who  shall  discharge  the  duties  of  the  office  and 
to  certify  thereon  to  the  barons  of  the  Exchequer  ;  and  grant  to  him  for 
life  from  the  said  18  February  of  all  forfeited  issues,  amercements,  fines, 
profits,  farms,  revenues,  forfeitures  and  commodities  in  the  county,  all  farms 
exacted  under  the  name  of  the  sheriff,  all  demesne  lands  of  the  castle  of 
Carlisle,  the  40/.  yearly  which  the  citizens  of  Carlisle  render  to  the  king, 
all  the  king's  fisheries  in  the  water  of  Eden  and  elsewhere  in  the  county 
and  all  other  rents  and  farms  rendered  to  the  king  within  the  county, 
rendering  to  the  king  100/.  yearly  at  the  Exchequer;  provided  that  this 
grant  shall  not  extend  to  the  forest  of  Inglewode  or  any  rents  or  farms 
belonging  to  the  king  therefrom.  By  K. 

July  20.        Pardon  to  the  king's  brother  Richard,  duke  of  Gloucester,  and  Anne  his 
Westminster,  wife,  one  of  the  heirs  and  tenants  of  the  lands  late  of  Richard  Neville, 
late  earl  of  Warwick,  alias  Anne,  duchess  of  Gloucestei",  heir  of  the  lands 


15  EDWARD  IV.— Part  III. 


1475.  Membrane  16 — cont. 

of  Richard,  late  earl  of  Salisbury,  late  occupier  of  the  castle,  town,  lordship, 
and  land  of  B.ergevenny,  alias  Richard,  duke  of  Gloucester,  occupier  of 
the  lordship,  manor,  town  and  township  of  Chirke  and  Ciiirkeland  in  the 
marches  of  Wales,  alias  Anne,  duchess  of  Gloucester,  one  of  the  heirs  and 
tenants  of  the  lands  of  Richard,  late  earl  of  Warwick,  keeper  of  all  mines 
of  gold,  silver  and  lead  within  the  realm  from  the  Trent  to  the  north,  alias 
Richard,  duke  of  Gloucester,  tenant  of  the  lands  late  of  Richard,  late  earl 
of  Salisbury,  and  Richard,  late  earl  of  Warwick,  occupier  of  a  house  called 
'  Glashous '  and  the  fishery  of  Edyn  and  Trenwathen  in  the  forest  of 
Englewode  alias  the  fishery  of  Girmethwayte  and  Grenewathelyn,  of  all 
olFences  committed  by  them,  all  fines,  issues,  amercements,  reliefs,  scutages, 
debts,  accounts  and  arrears  due  from  them  to  the  king  and  all  alienations 
and  perquisitions  by  them  of  lands  held  in  chief  without  licence.       By  K. 

July  26.  Grant  for  life  to  the  king's  esquire  John  Waynflete  of  the  office  of  one 
\^  estniiuster.  of  the  king's  Serjeants  at  arras  from  5  July,  11  Edward  IV.  receiving  \2d. 

daily  from  the  issues  of  the  county  of  Middlesex  with  all  other  profits  and 
a  livery  of  vesture  yearly  at  Christmas  at  the  great  wardrobe  as  other 
Serjeants  at  arms  have ;  in  lieu  of  a  grant  to  him  of  the  office  by  letters 
patent  dated  the  said  5  July,  surrendered.  By  p.s. 

Mandate  in  pursuance  to  the  sheriffs  of  London  and  Middlesex. 


Membrane  15. 

March  14.  Exemplification,  at  the  request  of  the  king's  brother  George,  duke  of 
Westminster.  Clarence,  of  the  tenour  of  an  act  (English)  in  the  Parliament  summoned  at 
Westminster  on  6  October,  12  Edward  IV.  and  continued  by  divers  pro- 
rogations to  23  January,  14  Edward  IV.  and  from  thence  to  13  March, 
15  Edward  IV.  ordaining  that  whereas  by  letters  patent  dated  18  July, 
14  Edward  IV.  the  king  granted  to  the  said  duke  and  the  heirs  male  of 
his  body  the  manors  and  lordships  of  Sampford  Cuurteney,  Torbrian  and 
Slappcton,  CO.  Devon,  Hasilbere  and  Iwarne  Courteney  alias  Yewarn 
Courteney,  co.  Dorset,  and  Kyngesdon  by  Ylchestere,  co.  Somerset,  with 
all  knights'  fees,  advowsons,  leets,  courts,  views  of  frank-pledge,  fairs, 
markets,  warrens,  fisheries,  free  customs,  rights,  waifs,  strays,  chattels  of 
felons  and  fugitives,  escheats,  liberties,  franchises,  profits  and  commodities, 
tliis  grant  shall  be  void  and  of  no  effect  from  the  said  13  March  and  the 
said  duke  shall  hold  the  premises  from  that  date  to  himself  and  his  heirs 
and  assigns  by  knight  service,  saving  the  right  of  any  person  other  than  the 
king  and  his  heirs  and  the  heirs  male  of  the  duke  to  the  premises.  \_Iiolls 
of  Parliament,  VI.  120.] 

April  IG.  Letters  of  denization  for  John  do  Solareo,  born  in  the  })arts  of  Italy, 
Westminster,  alias  John  Bull  of  London,  '  broker,'  and  the  heirs  of  his  body.        By  K. 

April  18.       Presentation  of  John  Longeraan  to  the  parish  church  of  Culmiton  in  le 
Westminster.  Corvcdale,  in  the  diocese  of  Hereford,  void  by  the  resignation  of  John 
Billyngisborowe,  last  rector,  and  in  the  king's  gift  by  reason  of  the  minority 
of  his  kinsman  George,  earl  of  Shrewsbury.  By  p.s. 

May  21.  Licence  for  the  alienation  in  mortmain  by  William  Catesby,  knight, 
Westminster.  Walter  Mauntcll,  knight,  Edmund  Rede,  knigiit,  Richard  Fowler,  Thomas 
Waldycne,  Thomas  Wodc  and  John  Russell  to  AVilliam  Tyberd,  tho 
president,  and  tlie  scholars  of  the  college  of  St.  Mary  .Magdalen  commonly 
called  '  Maudeleyn  College  '  in  the  University  of  O.xford  of  the  manor  of 
Dodyngtou  alias  Dudyngton  by  Wakerley  and  six  messuages,  five  tofts, 
100  acres  of  land,  20  acres  of  meadow,  20  acres  of  pasture,  40  acres  of 
wood  and  40*.  of  j^reut  in  Dodyngton  alias  Dudyogton  by  Wakerley,  co, 


558 


CALENDAR  OF  PATENT  EOLLS. 


1475.  Membrane  15 — cont. 

Northampton,  extended  at  \2l.  yearly,  held  of  the  king  as  of  his  duchy  of 
Lancaster,  as  appears  by  an  inquisition  taken  before  Robert  Pemberton, 
cscheator  in  the  county,  to  hold  to  the  value  of  14/.  yearly,  in  part 
satisfaction  of  a  licence  by  letters  patent  dated  10  October,  7  Edward  IV. 

July  30.        Appointment,  during  pleasure,  of  John  Langton  as  controller  of  the 
Westminster,  scrutiny  in  the  port  of  Kyngeston  on  Hull  and  ports  and  places  adjacent, 
receiving  the  accustomed  fees.  By  bill  of  the  treasurer. 

Oct.  22.        Licence  for  the  prior  and  convent  of  the  monastery  of  St.  Mary, 
Westminster.  Shirburne,  to  elect  an  abbot  in  the  place  of  John  Saunder,  late  abbot, 
deceased.  By  p.s. 


Membrane  14. 

Aug.  1.  Whereas  the  king,  on  13  May,  2  Edward  IV.  for  95/.  8c?.  in  which  he 
Westminster,  was  indebted  to  Thomas  Q-ay  the  younger  assigned  to  him  the  said  95/.  8c?. 

by  a  tally  containing  that  sum  levied  at  the  receipt  of  the  Exchequer  at 
Westminster  on  John  Lambard  and  the  said  Thomas  himself,  then  collectors 
of  the  customs  and  subsidies  of  wools  and  the  petty  custom  in  the  port  of 
Southampton,  and  on  14  March,  3  Edward  IV.  for  100/.  in  which  he  was 
likewise  indebted  to  him  assigned  to  him  that  sum  by  another  tally  levied 
at  the  said  receipt  on  the  said  collectors,  and  on  23  July,  3  Edward  IV. 
for  20/.  in  which  he  was  likewise  indebted  to  him  assigned  to  him  that  sum 
by  a  tally  levied  at  the  said  receipt  on  the  collectors  of  the  first  moiety  of 
an  aid  of  37,000/.  and  6,000/.  parcel  of  the  same  aid  granted  to  the  king 
by  the  laity  in  that  year  in  the  county  of  Kent,  and  on  16  November, 
2  Edward  IV.  for  51/.  4*.  7ic?.  in  which  he  was  indebted  to  Thomas 
Gybbes,  '  brawderer,'  assigned  to  the  latter  that  sum  by  a  tally  levied  at  the 
said  receipt  on  the  said  collectors  in  the  port  of  Southampton,  and  on 
23  March,  3  Edward  IV.  for  11/.  65.  8^c?.  in  which  he  was  indebted  to 
Gilmyn  Pault  assigned  to  him  that  sum  by  a  tally  levied  at  the  said  receipt 
on  the  same  collectors,  and  the  said  Thomas  Gybbes  and  Gilmyn  being 
indebted  to  the  said  Thomas  Gay  have  surrendered  their  tallies  to  him,  and 
the  said  Thomas  Gay  on  1  October,  3  Edward  IV.  delivered  to  the  king's 
kinsman  Edmund,  earl  of  Kent,  then  treasurer  of  England,  10/.  of  silver 
for  the  king's  use  and  in  the  month  of  March,  1  Edward  IV.  before  the 
conflict  at  Towton  delivered  to  John  Dynham,  now  lord  Dynham,  a  woollen 
cloth  of  *  crimesyn '  of  the  value  of  78s.  for  the  king's  use  for  signs  and 
bends  for  the  knights  and  esquires  going  with  the  king  to  the  conflict  and 
also  delivered  divers  pieces  of  woollen  cloth  of  divers  colours  worth  38*.  2c?. 
to  John  Wykes,  esquire,  for  the  use  of  the  king  before  he  assumed  the  rule 
and  (Summit  of  royal  majesty  ;  and  whereas  the  said  Thomas  Gay  has  received 
no  payment  of  the  said  sums,  amounting  in  all  to  293/.  8*.  2c/.,  and  has 
surrendered  the  said  tallies  to  the  said  receipt ;  the  king  grants  licence  for 
him  or  his  executors  or  administrators  after  his  decease  or  their  factors  or 
attorneys  to  ship  woollen  cloths,  hides,  pieces  of  tin  and  fodders  of  lead  in 
any  ports  of  the  realm  and  take  them  to  foreign  parts  and  bring  back  other 
merchandise  to  the  said  ports  quit  of  customs  and  subsidies  to  the  said  sum 
of  293/.  8*.  2c?.  By  K. 

Aug.  25.  Licence,  for  8/.  paid  in  the  hanaper,  for  John  Poulet,  esquire,  to  grant 
Westminster,  the  honour,  lordsliip  or  manor  of  Basyng,  co.  Southampton,  with  its 
members  and  advowsons,  rents,  reversions  and  services,  held  in  chief,  to 
Henry  Roos,  knight,  Thomas  Delamare,  knight,  John  Cheyne,  esquire  of 
the  body,  Guy  Fairfax,  one  of  the  king's  serjeunts  at  law,  Roger  Cheyne, 
Thomas  Bouryng,  Richard  Jaye,  Thomas  Gorfyn,  Christopher  Hanyngton, 
John  Frankeleyn,  Richard  Shererd  and  John  Colyns,  and  for  these  to  re- 
grant  the  same  to  John  Poulet,  his  son  and  heir^  William  Poulet,  Leonard 


15  EDWARD  IV.— Part  III. 


569 


1475.  Membrane  14 — cont, 

Poulet,  Walter  Poulet  and  James  Poulet,  also  his  sons,  and  Margaret  and 
Dorothy  his  daughters  and  their  heirs  and  assigns. 

Sept.  11.       Grant  to  Agnes  late  the  wife  of  John  Hervy,  esquire,  late  one  of  the 
Westminster,  ushers  of  the  king's  chamber,  tenant  in  chief,  of  the  custody  of  all  manors, 
lands,  rents  and  services  late  of  the  said  John  during  the  minority  of  George 
his  son  and  heir  and  the  custody  and  marriage  of  the  latter  ■without 
disparagement,  and  so  from  heir  to  heir. 

July  4.        Nomination  of  Thomas  West,  vicar  of  the  church  of  St.  Mary,  Lincoln, 
Westminster,  to  the  dean  and  chapter  of  the  said  church  for  admission  to  the  chantry 
founded  for  the  souls  of  Edward  III.  {sic)  and  Isabella  his  consort,  void 
by  the  death  of  William  Muskam. 

Sept.  22.       Appointment  of  John  Dynham,  lord  of  Dynham,  as  one  of  the  king's 
Westminster,  counsellors  and  grant  to  him  of  100  marks  yearly  during  pleasure  from  the 
issues  of  the  petty  custom  in  the  port  of  London.  By  p.s. 

Oct,  1.         Grant  for  life  from  Easter  last  to  Gregory  Marleburgh  of  the  office  of 
Westminster,  collector  of  the   king's  rent  within  the  town  of  Calais,  receiving  the 
accustomed  fees  from  the  issues  of  the  town,  with  all  other  profits. 

By  p.s. 

Oct.  2.        Paidon  to  John  Halwell,  esquire,  late  escheator  in  the  counties  of  Devon 
Westminster,  and  Cornwall,  of  nil  offences  committed  by  him  and  all  fines,  amercements, 
issues,  reliefs,  scutagcs,  debts,  accounts  and  arrears  due  from  him  to  the 
king  by  reason  of  his  office.  By  K. 


Membrane  13. 

Sept.  11.  Whereas  Arnold  Trnssell  late  of  Bayonne  in  the  duchy  of  Aquitaino 
Westminster,  under  pretext  of  letters  of  safe-conduct  of  the  king  was  taking  divers  wines 
and  other  merchandise  in  a  ship  called  le  Martijn  of  Bayonne  of  the  burthen 
of  200  tuns  from  Bordeaux  to  England  and  the  ship  and  merchandise  were 
seized  off  the  coast  of  England  by  the  masters  and  mariners  of  a  ship  of 
John,  earl  of  Worcester,  constable  of  England,  and  the  said  Arnold  obtained 
letters  from  the  king's  kinsman  Louis,  calling  himself  king  of  the  Ercnch, 
and  Charles,  calling  liimeelf  duke  of  Aquitaine,  directed  to  the  king  asking 
for  restitution  of  the  mercliaiidise  and  wine  and  he  obtained  restitution  of 
70  tuns  of  wine  but  not  of  the  residue  of  the  said  wines  and  merchandise 
of  the  value  of  1,000/.,  and  the  king  on  12  February,  11  Edward  IV.  by 
letters  patent  granted  licence  for  him  to  ship  in  eacii  of  the  ten  years 
following  woollen  cloths  and  fodders  of  lead  and  other  merchandise  not 
being  wools  or  wool-fells  quit  of  customs  and  subsidies  to  the  sum  of  100/., 
and  he  has  tlius  received  the  sum  of  90/.  9s.  in  part  s.atisfaction  of  the  sum 
of  1,000/.,  as  appears  in  the  Exchequer,  and  the  sum  of  909/.  remains 
mipaid  to  him,  and  he  has  surrendered  the  said  hitters  patent ;  the  king 
hereby  grants  licence  for  the  said  Arnold,  now  dwelling  in  the  town  of  San 
Sebastian  in  Spain,  or  his  executors  after  his  decease  or  their  factors  or 
attorneys,  tn  ship  sacks  and  cloves  of  wool,  woollen  cloths,  pieces  of  tin  and 
fodders  of  lead  in  any  ports  of  the  realm  and  take  the  wools  by  the  straits 
of  Marrok  and  the  woollen  cloths,  tin  and  lead  to  any  foreign  parts  and 
bring  back  wines  and  other  merchandise  to  any  ports  of  the  realm  quit  of 
customs  and  subsidies  (on  the  wools  at  the  rate  of  4  marks  on  each  sack) 
to  the  said  sum  of  909/.  By  K. 

147G. 

Feb.  8.  Grant  to  Edmund  Chaderton,  canon  and  prebendary  of  Southuiuskam  in 
Westminster,  the  collegiate  church  of  St.  Mary,  Suthwell,  of  a  cauonry  and  prebend  m 


560 


CALENDAR  OF  PATENT  ROLLS, 


1476.  Membrane  13 — cont. 

the  king's  free  chapel  of  St.  Stephen  within  the  palace  of  Westminster,  on 
an  exchange  of  prebends  with  Thomas  Chandeler.  By  K. 

Mandate  in  pursuance  to  the  dean  of  the  chapel. 

Feb.  8.  Pardon  to  Gilbert  Debenham  late  of  London,  knight,  of  hia  outlawry  in 
Westminster,  the  county  of  Middlesex  for  not  appearing  before  the  king  to  answer  for 
certain  trespasses  and  rescues  of  which  he  was  charged  by  the  return  of 
Robert  Morley,  one  of  the  servants  of  William  Brandon,  knight,  marshal 
of  the  Marshalsea,  he  having  surrendered  to  the  Marshalsea  prison,  as 
Thomas  Billyng,  knight,  chief  justice  of  the  King's  Bench,  has  certified. 


1475. 

Aug.  21. 

Westminster. 


June  20. 
Westminster. 


Membrane  12. 

Grant  to  the  king's  brother  Richard,  duke  of  Gloucester,  and  the  heirs 
male  of  his  body  of  the  castles,  honours,  manors  and  lordships  of  Hething- 
ham  Sibill,  Langdonhall,  Dodyngherst,  Fyngrith  in  Blakemore,  Curstwyche, 
Beamond,  Yeldamhall,  Bumpsted  Helyon,  Steplebumstede,  Eston  Hall, 
Crippyng  Hall,  Vaux  and  BurysgifFord  with  their  members,  co.  Essex, 
and  Abyndon,  Saxton,  Campes  and  Hengston  with  their  members,  co. 
Cambridge,  the  manors  or  lordships  of  Creppyng  with  its  members,  co. 
Suffolk,  Batillesmere  with  its  members,  co.  Kent,  Chesham  Aston,  White- 
chui'che  and  Calverton  with  their  members,  co.  Buckingham,  Kensyugton 
and  Kuottjngbernes  with  their  members,  co.  Middlesex,  Chepyngnorton 
with  its  members,  co.  Oxford,  and  Polsewe,  Rosneython,  Etheron,  Predannek 
and  Penhale  with  their  members,  co.  Cornwall,  and  all  other  lands,  rents, 
reversions,  services  and  other  possessions  in  Hethingham  Sibill,  Langdonhall, 
Dodyngherst,  Fyngrith  in  Blakemore,  Curstwyche,  Beamond,  Yeldhamhall, 
Bumpstede  Helyon,  Steplebumpsted,  Eston  Hall,  Cryppynghall,  Vaux, 
BurysgrifFord,  Abyndon,  Saxton,  Campes,  Hengston,  Creppyng,  Batilles- 
mere, Chesham  Aston  Saundford,  Whitchurch,  Calverton,  Kensyngton, 
Knottyngbernes,  Chepyngnorton,  Polsewe,  Rosneython,  Estheron, 
Predannek  and  Penhale  with  knights'  fees,  advowsons,  wards,  marriages, 
reliefs,  escheats,  hereditaments,  courts,  leets,  hundreds,  views  of  frank- 
pledge, forests,  chaces,  parks,  woods,  warrens,  fairs,  markets,  waters, 
fisheries,  stews,  wreck  of  sea,  offices,  liberties  and  franchises,  late  of  John, 
late  earl  of  Oxford,  and  in  the  king's  hands  by  his  forfeiture  and  by  virtue 
of  an  act  in  the  last  Parliament  at  Westminster,  and  the  manors  or 
lordships  of  Gosberkirk,  Moreton,  Harmerthorpe,  Surflete,  Witham. 
Northwitham  a/«as  Northwithum,  Weutonaud  Walcotewith  their  members, 
CO.  Lincoln,  Upton,  co.  Nottingham,  and  Titlde  St.  Giles,  co.  Cambridge, 
with  the  advowson  of  the  chantry  of  Leveryngton,  co.  Cambridge,  the 
reversion  of  the  manors  of  Esthall  and  Southhall  in  Horblyng,  Helpring- 
liam  and  Austhorpe,  co.  Lincoln,  which  Katharine  Tempest  late  the  wife 
of  Thoma  Delalaunde,  knight,  holds  for  life  and  all  other  lands,  rents, 
reversions,  services  and  other  possessions  in  Tidde  St.  Giles,  Gosberkirk, 
Pynchebck,  Sjialdyng,  Quadryng,  Born,  Moreton,  Surflete,  Witham, 
Northwitham  alias  Northwithum,  Weuton,  Walcote,  Upton  and  Gourton 
with  knights'  fees,  advowsons,  courts,  leets,  liberties,  franchises  and  other 
emoluments  and  commodities  late  of  the  said  Thomas  Delalaunde  and  in 
the  king's  hands  by  his  forfeiture  and  by  virtue  of  the  said  act,  and  all  issues 
of  the  above  from  14  April,  11  Edward  IV.  By  K. 

Licence  for  John,  lord  of  Dudley,  or  liis  executors  after  his  decease  or 
their  factors  or  attorneys  to  ship  sacks  and  cloves  of  wool  and  woollen  cloths 
in  the  ports  of  Loudon,  Sandwich  or  Southampton  and  take  the  wools  by 
the  straits  of  Marrok  and  the  woollen  cloths  to  any  foreign  parts  quit  of 


15  EDWARD  IV.— Part  III. 


5G1 


1475,  Membrane  12 — cont. 

customs  and  subsidies  (on  the  wools  at  the  rate  of  4  markg  on  each  sack) 
to  the  sum  of  698/.  8s.  \\d.  By  K. 

July  22.        Inspeximus  and  confirmation  of  the  following  : — 

VVestmiuster.  1.  A  charter  dated  at  Rochester,  20  May,  30  Henry  HI.  granting  to  the 
lepers  of  St.  Bartholomew  by  Rochester  livery  of  the  40s.  yearly 
wliich  Roger  son  of  Stephen  de  Northwude  used  to  render  to  them 
out  of  a  land  called  '  Northwude  '  within  the  hundred  of  Mideltune, 
to  hold  with  homages,  escheats,  reliefs,  services  and  all  liberties 
which  tiie  king's  ancestors  used  to  have,  and  granting  to  them  a 
messuage  containing  half  an  acre  of  land,  Avhich  the  heirs  of  Henry 
the  butcher  hold,  lying  by  tlie  market  of  Middeltun  and  pasture  for  one 
horse  and  two  cows  in  the  king's  pasture,  and  granting  that  thoy  and 
their  tenants  shall  be  free  of  toll  and  theara  and  lastage  throughout 
all  ports  of  the  sea  and  all  England  :  witnesses  : — R.  Jilio  l\icholai, 
Beriramo  de  Cr\ioill\  Gerrnino  de  Caxt\nn\  domino  Silveslro, 
cancellario,  domino  li.  de  Leyburn.  II.  de  Crevequcr,  domino 
IF.  de  Say,  B.  de  Ikidelmere,  li.  de  Itohele,  It.  de  Cortihnll. 
2.  Letters  patent  dated  8  April,  22  Edward  HI.  granting  to  tlie  lepers 
of  the  hospital  of  St.  Bartholomew,  Chetham  by  Rochester,  that 
they  shall  be  quit  of  all  taxes,  tallages  and  other  quota. 

For  God,  because  they  are  poor. 

Sept.  20-       Grant  for  life  to  the  king's  servant  Reginald  Moore,  one  of  the  pages  of 
Westminster,  the  king's  chamber,  of  the  ofiice  of  keeping  the  king's  bailiwick  called 
Ungerhundred  in  the  forest  of  Wallham,  co.  Es.sex,  with  the  accustomed 
fees.  By  p.s. 

Sept.  25.        General  pardon  to  IMorgan  ap  Jehankyn  ap  Philip  of  Langston  within 
Westmiustcr.  the  king's  lordship  of  Carlyon  in  the  marches  of  Wales,  esquire,  of  all 
offences  committed  by  him  before  19  September.  By  p.s. 

Sept.  27.  Grant  for  life  to  John  Frost  of  the  office  of  bailiff  of  Ileunold  within  the 
Westminster,  forest  of  Waltham,  co.  Essex,  with  the  accustomed  fees.  By  p.s. 


Membrane  11. 

Dec.  22.  Grant  to  the  king's  consort  Elizabeth,  queen  of  England,  Richard,  bishop 
Westminster,  of  Salisbury,  and  Master  V/illiam  Dudley,  dean  of  the  chapel  of  the  house- 
hold, of  the  custody  of  all  castles,  lord.ships,  manor.s,  lands,  rents,  possessions 
and  hereditaments  in  England,  Ireland,  Wales  and  the  marches  of  the  same 
late  of  John,  late  earl  of  Shrewsbury,  tenant  in  chief  (with  the  exception 
of  the  castle,  lordship  and  manor  of  Godcrich  and  Irchinfold  alias 
Urchynfeld  and  the  hundred  of  Wormclowe  with  members,  profits,  Iccts, 
views  of  frank-pledge,  forfeitures,  fines,  woods  and  pastures  and  all  hinds, 
possessions  and  hereditaments  in  Goderieh,  Urchynfeld  and  the  hundred 
aforesaid  and  all  castles,  lordships,  manors,  lands,  possessions  and  heredita- 
ments which  the  king  granted  to  his  counsellor  William  Hastynges,  knight, 
lord  Hastynges,  his  chamberlain,  for  the  sustenance  of  George,  son  and  heir 
of  the  said  late  earl,  by  other  letters  patent)  Avith  knights'  fees,  advowsons, 
wards,  marriages,  reliefs,  fairs,  markets,  courts,  leets,  views  of  frank- pledge, 
liberties,  franchises,  jurisdictions,  profits,  commodities  and  emoluments  to 
hold  from  Easter  last  during  the  minority  of  the  said  George,  and  so  from 
heir  to  heir,  without  rendering  anything  for  the  same,  and  grant  to  them 
.also  of  the  custody  of  the  said  castle,  lordship  and  manor  of  Godericli 
and  Urchynfeld  and  hundred  of  Worinelowe  and  all  lands,  rents,  possessions 
and  hereditaments  in  Godcrich,  Urchynfeld  and  the  hundred  of  Worinelowf 
aforesaid  with  knights'  fees,  advowsons,  wards,  marriages,  reliefs,  fairs, 
markets,  courts,  leets,  views  of  frankpledge,  liberties,  franchises,  juris- 
y  86186  N  N 


562 


CALENDAR  OF  PATENT  ROLLS, 


1475.  Membrane  11 — cont. 

dictions,  profits,  commodities  and  emoluments,  to  hold  from  Easter  last 
during  the  minority  of  the  said  George,  rendering  to  the  king  5G^.  13*.  4<?. 
yearly.  By  p.s. 


Schedule. 

Vacated  by  surrender  by  Richard  Iseham,  attorney  of  the  queen,  on 
19  July,  18  Edward  IV.  and  by  William  Curteys,  attorney  of  the  said 
bishop,  on  18  July  and  cancelled  so  far  as  concerns  the  custody  of  the 
lordships  or  manors  of  Longehope,  Hunteley,  Westbury,  Beggeworth,  Legh 
and  Lydney,  co.  Gloucester,  Alveton,  co.  Stafford,  Wynfield,  Crich, 
Monyassh  and  Chelmerdou,  co.  Derby,  Shrevenham,  co.  Berks,  Swyndon, 
Broughtou,  Asshton,  Stokeverdon  and  Willesford,  co.  Wilts,  Bampton, 
Northlie  and  Wivelcote,  co.  Oxford,  and  Farnham  Roiall,  co.  Buckingham, 
and  all  lordships,  manors,  lands,  ronts,  services,  knights'  fees,  advowsons 
and  hereditaments  in  Longehope,  Hunteley,  Westbury,  Beggeworth,  Legh, 
Lidney,  Alveton,  Wynfield,  Crich,  Moneassh,  Chelmerdou,  Shrevenham, 
Swyndon,  Broughtou,  Asshton,  Stokeverdon,  Willesford,  Bampton,  Northlie, 
Wibelcote  and  Farnham  Roiall  and  elsewhere  in  the  said  counties  of 
Gloucester,  Stafford,  Berks,  Wilts,  Oxford  and  Buckingham  late  of  the  said 
late  earl,  because  the  king  granted  the  custody  of  the  same  to  the  said 
William  Hastynges,  knight,  lord  of  Hastynges,  chamberlain  of  his  household, 
by  other  letters  patent  on  19  July,  18  Edward  IV. 


May  29. 
Westminster. 


1476. 

Feb.  5. 

Westminster. 


Membrane  11 — cont. 

Grant  to  the  said  queen,  bishop  and  dean  of  the  custody  of  all  castles, 
lordships,  manors,  lands,  rents,  possessions  and  hereditaments  late  of  John, 
late  earl  of  Wiltshire,  tenant  in  cliief,  with  knights'  fees,  advowsons,  wards, 
marriages,  reliefs,  fairs,  markets,  courts,  leets,  views  of  frank-pledge, 
liberties,  franchises,  jurisdictions,  profits,  commodities  and  emoluments  to 
hold  from  Easter  last  during  the  minority  of  John,  son  and  heir  of  the  said 
earl,  with  his  marriage  without  disparagement,  and  so  from  heir  to  heir; 
and  also  the  custody  of  all  lordships,  manors,  lands,  rents,  reversions, 
services,  possessions  and  hereditaments  in  the  counties  of  Northampton, 
Rutland,  Leicester,  Bedford  and  Buckingham  and  the  town  of  Norhampton 
or  elsewhere  within  the  realm  of  England  late  of  Thomas  Tresham,  knight, 
and  in  the  king's  hands  by  his  forfeiture  and  by  virtue  of  an  act  in  the  last 
Parliament  at  Westminster,  with  knights'  fees,  advowsons,  wards,  marriages, 
reliefs,  fairs,  markets,  courts,  leets,  views  of  frank-pledge,  liberties, 
franchises,  jurisdictions,  profits,  commodities  and  emoluments,  to  hold  from 
Easter  last  during  the  minority  of  the  said  John  by  the  accustomed  rents 
and  services.  By  p.s. 

Grant  to  Robert  Wyngcfeld,  knight,  and  Anne  his  wife  that  they  and 
their  heirs  shall  have  free  warren  in  all  their  demesne  lands  at  their  manors 
of  Estharlyng,  Quydenham,  Knatishale,  Russhworth,  Lirlyngford,  Stan- 
ford, Stratton,  Bernham  Brome  and  Gonneviles  in  Wymondham  and  all 
their  demesne  lands  in  Newebokenham,  Oldbokeuham,  Shadewell,  Litel 
Bokenham,  Walton,  Meryngthorpe,  Bokerston  and  Corston,  co.  Norfolk, 
provided  that  these  are  not  within  the  metes  of  the  forest,  so  that  no  one 
shall  enter  to  hunt  or  take  anything  pertaining  to  warren  without  their  will 
under  forfeiture  to  the  king  of  10/.  By  p.s. 

Grant  to  William  Asshwell,  for  his  good  service  to  the  king  at  the  fields 
of  Barnet  and  Teuxbury,  of  the  goods  and  chattels  of  Henry  Warde  of 
Fodryngay,  co.  Northampton,  in  the  king's  hands  because  he  killed  John 
Carlile,  By  p.s, 


15  EDWARD  IV.— Part  III. 


563 


1476.  Membrane  11 — cont. 

Feb.  6.  Licence  for  Thomas  Fitz  William  the  younger  or  his  heirs  or  executors 
Westminster,  to  found  a  perpetual  chantry  of  two  chaplains  to  celebrate  divine  service 
daily  at  the  altar  of  St.  Mary  in  the  parish  church  of  St.  Wilfrid,  Alford, 
CO.  Lincoln,  for  the  good  estate  of  the  king  and  William  Hastynges,  knight, 
Richard  Haslinges,  knight,  the  said  Thomas  and  John  Lowe  and  for  their 
souls  after  death  and  the  souls  of  Robert  Smyth  late  of  Alford  and  Matilda 
his  wife,  to  be  called  the  chaplains  of  the  chantry  of  Corpus  Christi  in  the 
said  church,  and  for  the  said  chaplains  to  acquire  in  mortmain,  after  in- 
quisition, lands,  rents  and  annuities,  not  held  in  chief,  to  the  value  of  10/. 
yearly  for  their  sustenance.  By  p.s.  and  for  30/.  paid  Ib  the  hanaper. 


1475. 

Nov.  1. 
Westraiustcr. 


Dec.  18. 
Westminster. 


Dec.  20. 

Westminster. 


Dec.  22. 

Westminster, 


Dec.  23, 
Westminster. 


Dec.  22. 
Westminster. 


1476. 

Jan.  27. 
Westminster. 

Jan.  26. 
Westminster. 


Membrane  10. 

Inspeximus  and  confirmation  of  letters  patent  (English)  of  the  king's 
mother  Cecil,  duchess  of  York,  late  v/ife  to  Richard  rightful  king  of 
England  and  France  and  lord  of  Ireland,  dated  at  her  cnstle  of  J3erk- 
hamsted,  13  December,  1."^  Edward  IV.  granting  for  her  life  to  her  servants 
Richard  Gylmyn,  esquire,  sergeant  at  arms,  and  John  Gylinyn,  yeoman  of 
her  chamber,  the  office  of  keeping  her  park  and  chace  of  Suthfrith,  taking 
the  accustomed  fees  at  the  hands  of  her  receiver  there  ;  and  grant  to  tiiem 
of  the  same  office  for  life,  with  fees  as  above,  on  the  death  of  the  said 
duchess.  By  p.s.  and  for  6*.  8t/.  paid  in  the  hanaper. 

Grant  for  life  from  Easter  last  to  Thomas  Canceller  of  the  office  of 
receiver  of  the  castle,  lordship  and  manor  of  lledyngham  and  the  lordships 
and  manors  of  Eurl's  Cohio,  Benlle,  Canfelde,  and  Stanstede  Moufechet,  co. 
Essex,  and  the  lordship  and  manor  ol  Lavenham,  co.  Suffolk,  with  their 
members  late  of  John,  late  earl  of  Oxford,  and  in  the  king's  liands  by  his 
forfeiture  and  by  virtue  of  an  act  of  forfeiture  in  the  last  Parliament  at 
Westminster,  receiving  10  marks  yearly  from  the  issues  of  the  same  with 
all  other  profits.  By  p.s. 

Pardon  to  Richard  Croft,  esquire,  and  Thomas  Croft,  eiquire,  of  all 
offences  committed  by  them  against  the  statutes  of  liveries  and  signs. 

By  p.s. 

Grant,  during  pleasure,  to  the  king's  servitor  John  Russell  of  the 
custody  of  a  place  culled  *  le  Newe  Inne'  in  Fodringhay  with  two  virgates 
of  arable  land  and  10  acres  of  meadow  pertaining  to  it  and  of  a  croft  called 
'  le  Russhecrofte '  adjoining,  to  hold  with  all  profits  without  rendering  any 
account.  By  p.s. 

Grant  to  the  king's  kinsman  Richard,  bishop  of  Salisbury,  and  the  king's 
counsellor  John  Fogge,  knight,  and  their  assigns  of  the  collation  to  the 
next  vacant  canonry  and  prebend  in  the  king's  free  chapel  or  collegiate 
church  of  St.  Mary  and  St.  George  within  the  castle  of  Windesore. 

By  p.s. 

Grant  for  life  to  John  Brynket  of  the  office  of  provider  of  all  stone- 
cutters, plumbers  and  other  workmen  and  labourers  and  all  stuff  for  the 
king's  works  within  the  palace  of  Westminster  and  the  Tower  of  London, 
receiving  the  accustomed  fees  from  the  issues  of  the  counties  of  Norfolk  and 
Suffolk.  By  p.s. 

General  pardon  to  John  Davyson,  dean  of  the  cathedral  church  of 
Salisbury,  co.  Wilts,  of  all  offences  committed  by  him  before  14  January. 

By  p.s. 

Grant  for  life  to  the  king's  counsellor  Richard  Martyn,  clerk,  of  the 
king's  free  chapel  of  St.  Peter  within  the  Tower  of  London,  to  hold  with 
all  rights  and  profits  from  4  March,  1  Edward  IV.  By  K. 

N  N  2 


564 


CALENDAR  OF  PATENT  ROLLS. 


1476.  Membrane  10 — cont. 

Jan.  29.  Pardou  to  Ralph  Hobbys  of  Neuport  Paynell,  co.  Buckingham,  '  hus- 
"Westminster.  bondman,'  of  his  outlawry  in  the  county  of  Bedford  for  not  appearing 
before  the  justices  of  the  Bench  of  the  late  king  to  answer  John  Broughton, 
suing  for  the  said  late  king  and  himself,  for  having  with  Richard  Eyre  of 
Mulso,  CO.  Bedford,  '  husbondman,'  forged  divers  deeds  and  muniments 
concerning  lands  of  the  said  John  in  Mulso  at  Todyngton,  co.  Bedford,  and 
caused  them  to  be  published  to  the  disturbance  of  the  latter ;  he  having 
surrendered  to  the  Flete  prison,  as  Thomas  Bryan,  chief  justice  of  the 
Bench,  has  certified. 

Jan.  24.        Protection,  for  three  years,  for  John  May,  rector  of  the  parish  church  of 
Westminster.  All  Hallows  the  Great  alias  at  the  Hay,  London,  and  his  servants,  lands, 
possessions  and  goods. 


1475.  3IEMBRANE  9. 

Dec.  31.  Exemption  for  life  of  Richard  Bracebrigge,  esquire,  from  being  put  on 
■Westminster,  assizes,  juries,  inquisitions,  attaints  or  recognitions  and  from  being  matle 
sheriff,  escheator,  coroner,  assessor,  taxer  or  collector  of  tenths,  fifteenths  or 
other  tallages  or  subsidies  or  aid  for  knighting  the  king's  eldest  son  or 
marrying  the  king's  eldest  daughter,  constable,  trier,  arrayer  or  leader  of 
men  at  arras,  or  other  bailiff,  officer  or  minister  of  the  king  or  from  taking 
up  knighthood,  against  his  will.  By  p.s. 

June  1.  Licence  for  John  Pilkyngton,  knight,  or  his  heirs  and  assigns  to  found  a 
Westminster,  perpetual  chantry  of  one  chaplain  to  celebrate  divine  service  at  the  altar  of 
St.  Mary  the  Virgin  in  the  south  arch  of  the  parish  church  of  All  Saints, 
Wakefeld,  for  the  good  estate  of  the  king  and  his  brother  Richard,  duke  of 
Gloucester,  and  tlie  said  John  and  Joan  his  consort,  and  for  their  souls  after 
death,  and  the  souls  of  the  king's  father  Richard,  late  duke  of  York,  the 
father  and  mother  of  the  said  John,  Gilbert  Parre,  Thomas  Halle  and  John 
Leycestre  and  all  for  whom  he  is  bound  to  pray,  according  to  his  ordinance, 
to  be  called  the  chantry  of  John  Pilkyngton,  knight,  at  the  said  altar,  and 
for  the  said  chaplain  to  acquire  in  mortmain  for  his  sustenance  a  yearly 
rent  of  9  marks  of  the  grant  of  the  said  John  at  the  hands  of  Richard 
Broune,  the  prior,  and  the  convent  of  the  monastery  of  St.  John  the 
Evangelist,  Pontefract.  By  K. 

Dec.  1.         Grant  to  Guy  Wolston  and  Oliver  Sutton  of  the  office  of  receiver  of  all 
Westminster,  lordships,  manors,  lands,  rents,  services  and  other  possessions  late  of 
Constance,  countess  of  Wiltshire,  deceased,  the  wife  of  John,  earl  of 
Wiltshire,  deceased,  during  the  minority  of  Edward  their  son  and  heir, 
receiving  10  marks  yearly  from  the  issues  of  the  same  with  all  other  profits. 

By  p.s. 

Dec.  30.        Licence  for  Margaret  Squyer,  the  sub-prioress,  and  the  convent  of 
Westminster.  St.  Mary,  Hegham,  to  elect  a  prioress  in  the  place  of  Margaret  Botiller, 
deceased. 

Dec.  30.  Grant  to  the  king's  servant  John  Sapcotes,  one  of  the  esquires  of  the  body, 
Westminster,  of  the  custody  of  all  manors,  lands,  rents  and  services  with  knights'  fees 
and  advowsons  late  of  John  Chambernon,  esquire,  deceased,  tenant  in  chief, 
and  in  the  king's  hands  by  reason  of  the  minority  of  Joan,  one  of  his 
daughters  and  heirs,  to  hold  during  her  minority  and  her  custody  and 
marri.nge  without  disparagement,  and  so  from  heir  to  heir.  By  p.s. 

1476. 

Jan.  5.         Grant  to  Thomas  Howard,  esquire,  and  Thomas  Thorppe  and  their  heirs 
Westminster,  and  assigns  of  the  king's  wood  called  '  Holbroke  Park,'  co.  Suffolk,  late  of 
John,  late  earl  of  Oxford,  and  in  the  king's  bauds  by  reason  of  an  act  of 
forfeiture  in  the  Parliament  at  Westminster,  6  October,  12  Edward  IV.  to 


15  EDWARD  IV.— Part  III. 


565 


1476. 


Jan.  12. 
Westminster. 

Jan.  9. 
Westminster. 


Jan,  13. 
Wsstminster. 


Membrane  9 — cont. 

hold  by  the  rents  and  services  by  which  it  was  held  before  4  March, 
1  Edward  IV.  By  p.s. 

General  pardon  to  John  May  of  London,  clerk,  alias  John  Maye,  rector 
of  the  parish  church  of  All  Hallows  at  the  Hay,  Loudon.  By  K. 

Grant  for  life  to  the  king's  servant  William  Harnond,  one  of  the  king's 
trumpeters,  of  10  marks  yearly  from  Michaelmas  last  from  the  fee  farm  of 
the  town  of  Bridport,  co.  Dorset,  and  the  increment  of  the  same.      By  p.s. 

The  like  to  the  king's  servant  Thomas  Paynter,  one  of  the  king's 
trumpeters,  of  10  marks  yearly  from  Michaelmas  last  from  the  cess  of  the 
forest  of  Cornbury  at  the  hands  of  Thomas  de  Laugley  or  the  sherilf  of 
Oxford  and  Berks.  By  p.s. 

Grant  for  life  to  Alexander  Cely,  yeoman  of  the  king's  chamber,  of  the 
office  of  one  of  the  king's  Serjeants  at  arms  with  wages  of  \2(l.  daily  from 
Michaelmas  last  from  the  issues  of  the  counties  of  Bedford  and  Bucking- 
ham, as  Thomas  Chambre,  deceased,  late  one  of  the  king's  Serjeants  at  arms, 
had,  and  a  gown  yearly  at  Christmas  at  the  great  wardrobe  of  the  same  suit 
and  cloth  as  other  Serjeants  at  arms.  By  p.s. 


Membrane  8. 

Jan.  31.  Grant  to  Walter  Devereux,  knight,  lord  of  Ferrers,  and  the  heirs  male  of 
Westminster,  his  body  of  the  manor  or  lordship  of  Wigiston,  co.  Leicester,  late  of  .John 
Veer,  late  earl  of  Oxford,  late  of  Wyvenlio,  co.  Essex,  knight,  and  in  the 
king's  hands  by  his  forfeiture  and  by  force  of  an  act  in  the  last  Parliament  at 
Westminster,  and  a  brewhouae  of  the  king  called  '  le  Wals.shomau  '  without 
Ludgate  in  the  ward  of  Faryngdon  Without  in  the  parish  of  St.  Martin 
without  Ludgate,  London,  to  hold  by  the  accustomed  rents  and  services, 
and  all  issues  from  14  April,  11  Edward  IV.  Bv  p.s. 

Feb.  12.  Mandate  to  all  sheriff.-!,  mayors,  baililfs,  constables  and  other  ministers  of 
Westminster,  the  king  to  permit  the  men  and  tenants  of  the  manor  of  Kyugton  alius 
Quintonc  and  Waleborne,  which  is  of  the  ancient  demesne  of  the  crown,  as 
appears  by  a  certificate  sent  into  Chancery  by  the  king's  treasurer  and 
chamberlains,  to  be  quit  of  prest  of  toll,  passage,  [jontage  and  |)icago 
throughout  the  whole  realm  of  England  according  to  the  tenour  of  Muyna 
Carta  and  the  custom  of  the  realm. 

Feb.  11.        Appointment  of  John  Bell  as  deputy  and  lieutenant  of  Anthony,  earl  of 
Westminster.  Ryvers,  chief  butler  of  England,  who  is  elsewhere  occupied  on  the  king's 
service,  in  the  port  of  Sandwich  and  ports  and  places  adjacent  during  the 
pleasure  of  the  said  chief  butler,  receiving  the  accustomed  fees. 

By  bill  of  the  chief  butler. 

Jan.  29.  Letters  of  denization  for  Gosson  Wcytons  of  AHouste,  born  in  the  parts 
Westminster,  of  Flanders,  and  the  heirs  of  his  body. 

By  p.s.  and  for  26*.  %d,  paid  in  the  hanaper. 

Feb.  15.  Exemplification,  at  the  request  of  the  king's  servant  George  Lovekyn, 
Westminster,  one  of  the  yeomen  of  the  wardrobe,  of  the  tenour  of  the  enrolment  of  letters 
patent  dated  27  November,  14  Edward  IV.  granting  licence  for  him  to  sliip 
woollen  cloths  and  other  merchandise  quit  of  customs  and  subsidies  to  the 
sum  of  107/.  2s.  Ad,  These  letters  have  been  accidentally  lost,  as  lie  has 
taken  oath  in  Chancery,  and  will  be  surrendered  if  found. 


Membrane  7. 

Nov.  17.  Licence  for  John  Neuburgh  the  elder,  esquire,  Nicholas  Kemer,  John 
Westminster.  Ncuton  and  Thomas  Husc  executors  of  the  Avill  of  Master  Gilbert  Kemer, 


566 


CALENDAR  OF  PATENT  ROLLS. 


1475. 


Oct.  4. 
Westminster. 


1476. 

Jan.  15. 
Westminster. 


1475. 

June  29. 
Westminster. 


Membrane  7 — cont. 

dean  of  the  cathedral  church  of  St.  Mary,  Salisbury,  co.  "Wilts,  in  the 
diocese  of  Salisbury,  to  found  a  perpetual  chantry  of  one  chaplain  to 
celebrate  divine  service  daily  at  the  altar  of  the  sacred  relics  in  the  said 
church  where  the  body  of  the  said  Gilbert  is  buried,  for  the  good  estate  of 
the  king  and  his  consort  Elizabeth,  queen  of  England,  and  the  said 
founders  and  for  their  souls  after  death,  and  the  souls  of  the  said  Gilbert  and 
his  father,  mother,  brothers,  sisters  and  benefactors  and  all  who  may  lay 
hands  to  the  support  of  the  chantry,  to  be  called  the  chaatry  of  Master 
Gilbert  Kemer,  and  for  them  to  grant  in  mortmain  to  the  said  chaplain  the 
manor  of  Westhatche,  co.  Wilts,  in  aid  of  his  sustenance  and  for  the 
performance  of  certain  works  of  piety. 

By  K.  and  for  48A  paid  in  the  hanaper. 

Licence  for  William,  earl  of  Pembroke,  to  enter  freely  into  all  manors, 
lordships,  castles,  towns,  townships,  lands,  fee-farms,  annuities,  rents, 
services,  views  of  frank-pledge,  courts,  leets,  liberties,  knights'  fees,  advow- 
sons  and  all  other  possessions  and  hereditaments  which  should  descend  to 
him  on  the  death  of  his  father  or  any  of  his  ancestors,  saving  to  the  king 
homage  and  fealty.  By  K. 

Licence  for  John  Blount,  son  and  heir  male  of  Walter  Blount,  knight, 
lord  Mountjoy,  deceased,  tenant  in  chief,  and  kinsman  and  heir  male 
of  Edward  Blount  son  of  William  Blount  son  of  the  said  Walter,  that 
is  to  sny,  brother  of  the  said  William,  the  said  Edward  having 
lately  died  a  minor  and  in  the  king's  custody,  to  enter  freely  into 
all  lordships,  manors,  lands,  tenements,  fee-farms,  annuities,  reversions, 
farms,  rents,  services,  hundreds,  fees,  views  of  frauk-pledge,  courts, 
leets,  sherifi"'s  turns,  liberties,  franchises,  fairs,  markets,  jurisdictions, 
knights'  fees,  advowsons,  wards,  marriages,  reliefs,  parks,  warrens, 
chattels  of  felons  and  fugitives,  wreck  of  sea,  woods,  agistments,  pan- 
nages of  swine,  mills,  waters,  free  fisheries  and  all  other  possessions  and 
hereditaments  within  the  realm  of  which  the  said  Walter  was  seised  in  his 
demesne  as  of  fee  tail  and  which  should  descend  to  the  said  John,  to  hold 
to  himself  and  the  heirs  male  of  his  body  from  2  January  last,  saving  to  the 
king  homage  and  fealty  and  due  relief.  By  K. 

Appointment,  during  pleasure,  of  Richai'd  Mayle  as  gauger  in  the  port 
of  Bristol  and  ports  and  places  adjacent,  receiving  the  accustomed  fees. 

By  bill  of  the  treasurer. 


;i^476.  Membrane  6. 

Eeb.  7.         Appointment,   during  pleasure,  of  John  Holme  as   surveyor  of  the 
Westminster,  scrutiny  in  the  port  of  Kyngeston  on  Hull  and  ports  and  places  adjacent, 
receiving  the  accustomed  fees.  By  bill  of  the  treasurer. 

Feb.  IL  Appointment  of  John  Brynket  to  take  stone-cutters,  masons,  layers, 
.Westminster,  plumbers,  tilers,  smiths, ,  plasterers  and  other  workmen  and  labourers  for 
the  building  and  repair  of  the  palace  of  Westminster,  the  Tower  of 
London  and  elsewhere  within  the  realm  and  stone,  timber,  iron,  lead,  glass, 
tiles,  laths,  boards,  shingles,  nails  and  other  necessaries  and  carriage  and 
freightage  for  the  same.  By  bill  of  the  clerk  of  the  works. 

Feb.  12,  General  i)ardou  to  Thomas  Hichecok  alias  Hychecoke  late  of  Salisbury, 
Westminster,  co.  Wilts,  *  yoman.'  By  K. 

1475. 

Dec.  22.  Grant  to  the  king's  consort  Elizabeth,  queen  of  England,  Richard, 
Westminster,  bishop  of  Salisbury,  and  William  Dudley,  dean  of  the  chapel  of  the 


16  EDWARD  IV.— Part  III. 


567 


1475.  Membrane  6 — cont. 

household,  and  their  heirs  and  assigns  of  the  castle,  lordship  and  manor 
of  Hedyngham,  the  lordships  and  manors  of  Earl's  Colne,  Benteley, 
Canfeld  and  Stanstede  Montfichet,  co.  Essex,  and  the  lordship  and  manor 
of  Lavenham,  co.  Suffolk,  witli  their  members,  late  of  John,  late  earl  of 
Oxford,  and  in  the  king's  hands  by  his  forfeiture  and  by  virtue  of  an  act 
in  the  last  Parliament  at  Westminster,  the  lordships  and  manors  of  Sutton 
and  Tydde,  co.  Lincoln,  late  of  Thomas  de  la  Launde,  knight,  and  in 
the  king's  hands  by  his  forfeiture  and  by  rirtue  of  the  said  act,  and  the 
lordships  and  manors  of  Busshy  and  Eggeware,  cos.  Middlesex  and 
Hertford,  with  their  members,  to  hold  with  knights'  fees,  advowsona, 
courts,  leets,  views  of  frank-pledge,  fairs,  markets,  parks,  warrens,  fisheries, 
wreck  of  sea  and  all  other  rights,  liberties,  franchises,  profits,  commodities 
and  emoluments,  the  advowson  of  the  church  of  Lavenham  excepted,  by 
the  rents  and  services  cf  as  many  knights'  fees  and  as  many  otiier  rents 
and  services  as  they  were  held  by  before  4  Marcli,  1  Edward  IV.  with 
all  issues  from  Easter  last  ;  and  grant  to  them  also  of  the  lordships 
and  manors  of  Wodestok,  Hamborugh,  Stonfeld,  Bladon  and  Wotton  and 
the  hundred  of  Wotton,  co.  Oxford,  with  their  members,  to  hold  with 
knights'  fees,  advowsons,  courts,  leets,  views  of  frank-pledge,  fairs,  markets, 
parks,  warrens  and  all  other  rights,  liberties,  franchises,  profits,  commodities 
and  emoluments  for  seven  years  from  Easter  last.  By  K. 

General  pardon  to  Margaret  Bokenham  the  wife  of  John  Bokenham 
late  of  Shotley,  co.  Suffolk,  '  laborer,'  alias  Margaret  Fyn  late  of  Shotley, 
'  spynster.'  By  p.8. 

Grant  for  life  to  John  Sharpe,  servant  of  Edward,  bishop  of  Carlisle, 
of  the  office  of  one  of  the  foresters  of  the  forest  of  Ingle wode,  co. 
Cumberland,  void  by  the  death  of  Ralph  Manser,  with  the  accustomed  feei. 

By  p.s. 

Licence,  for  26s.  bcl.  paid  in  the  hanaper,  for  Henry  Pomeray,  esquire, 
to  grant  the  manors  of  Brixham  and  Herburton  alias  Herberton  with  tlieir 
members,  co.  Devon,  with  knights'  fees,  advowsons,  rents,  reversions  and 
services,  except  one  acre  of  land,  held  in  chief,  to  William  Huddesfeld, 
Thomas  Bouryng  and  John  Snape,  and  for  these  to  re-grant  the  same  to 
him  and  Anne  his  wife  and  his  lieirs  and  assigns. 

Grant  for  life  to  the  king's  servants  William  Worseloy,  esquire,  and 
William  Joseph  of  the  office  of  bailiff  of  the  skivinage  of  the  town  of 
Calais  and  the  island  of  Colne,  receiving  snch  fees  as  Richard  Stanlak, 
then  bailiff,  had  in  the  year  9  Richard  II.  with  all  other  profits ;  in  lieu  of 
a  like  grant  to  the  said  William  Worseley  by  letters  patent  date  14  June, 
8  Edward  IV.  surrendered.  By  K. 

Confirmation  of  the  grant  by  the  king's  consort  Elizabeth,  queen  of 
England,  by  letters  patent  dated  8  June,  15  Edward  IV.  to  her  servant 
Nicholas  Gaynesford,  esquii'e,  usher  of  her  chamber,  for  her  life  and  to 
the  king's  servant  William  ClilTord,  esquiro,  during  her  pleasure  of  the 
offices  of  constable  and  porter  of  the  castle  of  Odyliam,  co.  Southampton, 
with  the  offices  of  the  custody  of  her  park  of  Odyham  an<l  her  warren 
there;  and  grant  to  the  said  Nicholas  and  AVilliam  that  tliey  shall  have 
the  said  offices  for  life  whenever  they  come  into  the  king's  hands, 
receiving  the  accustomed  fees  from  the  issues  of  the  lordship  or  manor  of 
Odyham.  By  p.s. 

Membrane  5. 

Feb.  6.  Exemplification,  at  the  request  of  John  Blount  of  Motuitjoye,  of  the 
Westminster,  tenour  of  the  enrolment  of  letters  patent  dated  17  February,  7  Edward  IV. 


1476. 

Feb.  15. 

Westminster. 


Feb.  18. 

Westminster. 


Feb.  20. 
Westminster. 


Feb.  23. 

Westminster. 


Jan.  10. 

Westminster. 


568 


CALENDAR  OF  PATENT  ROLLS. 


2476.  Membrane  5 — cont. 

granting  licence  for  Walter  Blount,  lord  Mountjoye,  and  others  to  ship 
wool  and  other  merclumdise  quit  of  customs  and  subsidies  to  the  sum  of 
3,436/.  13«.  4J.  These  letters  have  been  accidentally  lost,  as  the  said  John 
has  taken  oath  in  Chancery,  and  will  be  surrendered  if  found. 

1475. 

Oct.  18.  Licence  for  James  Gold  well,  bishop  of  Norwich,  to  found  a  perpetual 
Westminster,  chantry  of  one  chaplain  to  pray  at  the  altar  of  the  Holy  Trinity  in  the  parish 
church  of  Great  Chart,  co.  Kent,  for  the  good  estate  of  the  king  and  his 
consort  Elizabeth  and  their  children  and  the  said  bishop  and  his  father  and 
mother,  and  for  their  souls  after  death,  and  to  do  other  works  of  piety,  to  be 
called  '  Goldwelles  Chauntry  of  the  Holy  Trinity,'  and  to  grant  in  mortmain 
to  the  said  chaplain  lands  and  rents,  not  held  in  chief,  to  the  value  of  10 
marks  yearly  for  his  sustenance. 

By  K.  and  for  13/.  6*.  8rf.  paid  in  the  hanaper. 


1476. 
Feb.  14. 
Westminster. 


Eeb.  21. 
Westminster. 


Feb.  23. 
Westminster. 

Feb.  20. 
Westminster. 

Feb.  27. 
Westminster. 

Feb.  18. 

Westminster. 


Membrane  4. 

Licence,  for  Al.  paid  in  the  hanaper,  for  Margaret  late  the  wife  of  David 
Brekenok,  esquire,  one  of  the  daughters  and  heirs  of  John  Syferwast, 
esquire,  deceased,  to  enfeoff  Richard  Fouler,  Richard  Chamberleyn,  Thomas 
Rokes,  Thomas  Fouler,  Thomas  Danvers,  Drugo  Brudenell,  Stephen  Glover, 
clerk,  and  John  Badby  of  a  moiety  of  the  manor  of  Cleware  and  one  messuage, 
24  acres  of  land  and  6  acres  of  meadow  in  Cleware,  co.  Berks,  held  in  chief, 
to  fulfil  her  last  will. 

Grant  to  John  Elrj^ngton,  treasurer  of  the  household,  of  the  custody  of 
all  lordships,  manors,  lands,  rents  and  services  late  of  Thomas  Colt,  tenant 
in  chief,  during  the  minority  of  John  his  son  and  heir  and  the  custody  and 
marriage  of  the  latter  without  disparagement,  and  so  from  heir  to  heir,  in 
lieu  of  a  like  grant  to  William  Parre,  knight,  by  letters  patent  dated 
4  March  last,  surrendered;  and  also  the  custody  of  all  manors,  lordships, 
lands,  rents  and  services  late  of  Joan,  deceased,  tenant  in  chief,  the  wife  of 
the  said  William  and  late  the  Avife  of  the  said  Thomas,  during  the  minority 
of  the  said  John  her  son  and  heir,  and  so  from  heir  to  heir.  By  p.s. 

General  pardon  to  Peter  Smalewode  late  of  Elmestede,  co.  Kent,  '  yoman,' 
alias  *  husbondman.'  By  p.s. 

Presentation  of  Thomas  Danet  to  the  parish  church  of  St.  Mary  within 
the  town  of  Calais,  void  by  the  death  of  Thomas  Power.  The  letters  are 
directed  to  Th.  archbishop  of  Canterbury. 

Appointment,  during  pleasure,  of  George  Bere  as  troner  and  peser  of 
the  tronage  and  pesage  in  the  port  of  Newcastle  on  Tyne  and  ports  and 
places  adjacent,  receiving  the  accustomed  fees.        By  bill  of  the  treasurer. 

Exemplification,  at  the  request  of  the  dean  and  canons  of  the  king's  free 
chapel  of  St.  Stephen  within  the  palace  of  Westminster,  of  the  tenour  of 
the  enrolment  of  letters  patent  dated  10  March,  9  Edward  IV.  granting  to 
them  the  alien  priory  of  Welles,  co.  Norfolk.  These  letters  have  been 
accidentally  lost,  as  John  Gourll  has  taken  oath  in  Chancery,  and  will  be 
surrendered  if  found. 


Membrane  3. 

Feb.  12.       Inspeximus  and  confirmation  to  Robert  Hughryde,  kinsman  and  heir  of 
Westminster.  Thomas  Ughtred,  of  a  charter  dated  at  Westminster,  26  June,  28  Edward  IIL 
granting  to  the  said  Thomas  and  his  heirs  free  warren  in  the  demesne  lauds 


15  EDWARD  IV.— Part  III. 


669 


1476.  Membrane  3 — cont. 

of  their  manors  of  Cukewald  and  Everle  and  a  market  and  fair  at  Cukewald, 
CO.  York.    [  Charter  Roll,  28  Edward  III.  No.  1 1.] 

For  1  mark  paid  in  the  hanaper. 

Feb.  24.  Licence  for  Master  Richard  Andrewe,  dean  of  the  cathedral  church  of 
Windsor.  St.  Peter,  York,  John  Pakenham,  clerk,  William  Poteman,  clerk,  John 
Gysburgh,  clerk,  and  Richard  Pygot,  one  of  the  king's  Serjeants  at  law,  to 
found  a  perpetual  chantry  of  two  chaplains  to  celebrate  divine  service  daily 
at  the  altar  in  the  rood-loft  (salario)  before  tlie  image  of  the  Holy  Saviour  in 
the  said  church  on  the  south  side  for  the  good  estate  of  the  king  and  his 
consort  Elizabeth,  queen  of  England,  and  the  said  founders  and  for  their 
souls  after  death,  to  be  called  the  chaplains  at  the  altar  of  the  Holy  Saviour 
in  the  said  church,  and  for  the  said  chaplains  to  acquire  in  mortmain  lands 
and  tenements,  not  held  in  chief,  to  the  value  of  14/.  yearly,  for  their 
sustenance.  By  K.  and  for  50/.  paid  in  the  hanaper. 

1475. 

Oct.  14.  Grant  to  Thomas  Gray,  knight  of  the  body,  and  his  heirs  and  assigns  of 
Westminster,  the  manor  or  lordship  of  Tylbury  by  Clare,  co.  Essex,  and  the  advowson 
of  the  church  of  Tylbury  and  a  court  baron  within  the  manor,  with  view 
of  frank-pledge  and  all  that  pertains  to  it,  late  of  John,  late  earl  of  Oxford, 
■who  forfeited  all  his  possessions  by  force  of  an  act  in  the  Parliament  held 
at  Westminster  on  6  October,  12  Edward  IV.  and  continued  by  divers 
prorogations  to  23  January  last,  and  all  issues  of  the  above  from  14  April, 
11  Edward  IV. 

May  28.  Grant  to  the  king's  seiwant  Robert  Chamberleyn,  knight  of  the  body, 
Westminster,  and  the  heirs  male  of  his  body,  of  the  manors  of  Little  Bromle  and  Frempton 
and  the  advowsons  of  the  churches  of  Little  Bromle  and  Fremptou,  co. 
Essex,  and  all  lordships,  manors,  lands,  rents,  services,  reversions,  pos- 
sessions and  hereditaments  with  knights'  fees  and  advowsons  late  of  William 
Godmanston  late  of  Bromle,  esquire,  in  the  said  county  and  elsewhere 
within  the  realm  and  in  the  king's  haud.s  by  his  forfeiture  by  virtue  of  a 
judgment  against  him  in  the  last  Parliament  at  Westminster,  to  hold  from 
14  April,  11  Edward  IV.  with  escheats,  wards,  marriages,  reliefs,  suits  of 
court  and  other  appurtenances.  By  K. 


1476. 

Feb.  7. 
Westminster. 


Feb.  17. 
Westminster. 


1475. 

Oct.  30. 

Westminster. 


Membrane  2. 

Grant  for  life  to  the  king's  servant  Richard  Bounten,  one  of  the  yeomen 
of  tiie  crown,  of  6d.  daily  for  his  fee  of  the  crown  from  the  issues  of  the 
fee-farm  of  the  city  of  Rochester.  By  p.s. 

Licence  for  the  king's  kinsman  William,  earl  of  Arundel,  William 
Berkeley,  esquire,  Edward  Berkeley,  esquire,  and  Robert  Bcrell  and  John 
Baker,  Robert  Blake,  John  Holme  and  John  Bacon,  wardens  of  the  church 
of  St.  Laurence,  Romsey,  to  found  a  perpetual  chantry  of  one  chaplain  to 
celebrate  divine  service  daily  in  the  parish  church  of  Romsey,  co.  South- 
anqjton,  for  the  good  estate  of  the  king  and  his  consort  Elizabeth,  queen 
of  England,  and  Edward  his  firstborn  son  and  the  said  founders  and  for 
their  souls  after  death,  to  be  called  the  chaplain  of  the  chantry  of  St.  George 
in  the  said  church,  and  for  the  said  chaplain  to  ac(juiro  in  frank  almoin, 
after  inquisition,  lands,  tenements  and  rent.s,  not  held  in  chief,  to  the  value 
of  8/.  yearly  for  his  sustenance  and  certain  other  charges. 

By  p.s.  and  for  71.  Us.  paid  in  the  hanaper. 

Grant  for  life  to  the  king's  counsellor  John  Coke,  doctor  of  laws,  of  the 
office  of  secondary  in  the  office  of  the  privy  seal  and  40/.  yearly  from 
11  August  last  from  the  subsidy  of  touuage  and  poundage  of  the  port  of 


670 


CALENDAR  OF  PATENT  ROLLS. 


1475.  Membrane  2 — cont. 

London  and  a  livery  of  vesture  yearly  at  Christmas  at  the  great  wardrobe 
viz.  8  long  yards  of  cloth  of  colour  with  a  fur  of  'bys'  of  seven  tires 
{tymbris),  as  Master  Thomas  Kent,  late  secondary  in  the  said  office,  had. 

By  p.s.  [4250.] 

Oct.  3.         Grant  for  life  to  the  king's  servant  William  Acham,  one  of  the  yeomen 
Westminster,  of  the  crown,  of  6<Z.  daily  for  his  fee  of  the  crown  from  the  issues  of  the 
county  of  Southampton,  as  Richard  Ford,  late  one  of  the  yeomen  of  the 
crown,  had.  By  bill  of  p.s. 

March  12.      The  like  to  the  king's  servitor  Thomas  Danyell,  yeoman  of  the  crown, 
Westminster,  of  6c?.  daily  for  his  fee  of  the  crown  from  29  September  last  from  the  issues 
of  the  subsidy  and  ulnage  of  cloth  in  the  county  of  Gloucester.        By  p.s. 

March  8.  Grant  for  life  to  John  Coupuldyk  and  Thomas  Markham  of  the  office  of 
Westminster,  bailiff  of  Wynchelsee  and  all  the  rent  of  assize  of  tenants  and  customers  in 
the  town  and  all  other  profits,  commodities,  customs,  revenues  aud  other 
things  within  the  town  which  the  bailifE  used  to  have  ;  in  lieu  of  grants  to 
the  said  John  and  his  father  John  Coupuldyk,  esquire,  deceased,  by 
letters  patent  dated  10  November,  4  Edward  IV.  surrendered,  and  to  the 
said  John  by  letters  patent  dated  18  June,  8  Edward  IV.  surrendered. 

By  p.s. 

Membrane  1. 

March  23.  Exemplification,  at  the  request  of  John  Manyngham  late  of  Oldeforde, 
Westminster,  co.  Middlesex,  knight,  of  the  tenours  of  the  following  : — 

1.  A  petition  (English)  in  the  Parliament  summoned  at  Westminster 

on  6  October,  12  Edward  IV.  and  continued  by  divers  prorogations 
until  23  January,  14  Edward  IV.  that  the  attainder  and  outlawry 
against  the  said  John  shall  be  annulled  and  that  after  the 
Annunciation,  1475,  he  may  freely  enter  into  all  his  possessions, 
saving  to  all  persons  their  right  in  the  same  at  the  time  of  the 
indictment. 

2.  A  schedule  (English)  providing  that  no  persons  having  any  interest 

in  the  premises  granted  by  the  king  before  24  January,  14 
Edward  IV.  shall  be  chargeable  therefore  to  the  said  John. 

3.  The  assent  of  the  commons : — A  ceste  hille  et  a  la  eedule  a  ycelle 

annexe  les  communez  sont  assentuz. 

4.  The  answer  of  the  king : — Soit  fait  come  il  est  desire, 

{Rolls  of  Parliament.  F/.  129.] 

Membrane  I9d. 

May  20.  Commission  to  William  Catesby,  knight,  John  Catesby,  serjeant  at  law, 
Westminster.  Nicholas  Griffyn,  Roger  Salesbury,  Oliver  Sutton,  Simon  Burton  and  the 
sheriff  of  Northampton  to  enquire  what  castles,  manors,  lordships,  towns, 
townships,  honours,  lands,  rents,  services,  fee-farms,  knights'  fees,  advowsons, 
hereditaments  and  possessions  Thomas  Tresham  late  of  Sywell,  co.  North- 
ampton, knight,  attainted  of  high  treason  by  force  of  an  act  in  the  Parliament 
summoned  at  Westminster  on  6  October,  12  Edward  IV.  and  continued 
by  divers  prorogations  until  23  January  last,  held  on  12  May,  12  Edward 
IV.  or  since  in  England,  Ireland,  Wales  or  Calais  or  the  marches  of  the 
same,  and  what  they  are  worth  yearly. 

Oct.  15.        Commission  to  Anthony  Gray,  knight,  John  Broughtou,  John  Rotheram, 
Westminster.   Richard  Enderby,  John  Coken,  William  Pek,   Robert  Gelybronde  and 
William  Colett  to  deliver  the  gaol  of  Bedford  Castle  of  John  atte  Wode, 
monk  of  the  monastery  of  St.  Mary,  Warden,  co.  Bedford,  and  Richard 
atte  Wode  of  Warden,  '  warper,'  prisoners  there. 


15  EDWAUD  IV.— Part  III. 


571 


1475.  Membrane  18c?. 

Nov.  13.       Commission  to  Thomas  Thwaytes,  to  whom  the  king  committed  the 
Westminster,  custody  of  Margaret,  daughter  of  king  Regnier,  to  deliver  her  to  the  king's 
councillor  Thomas  Mongomery,  knight  of  the  body.  By  K. 

Commission  to  the  latter  to  receive  the  said  Margaret  and  conduct  her  to 
the  king's  kinsman  Louis  of  France  and  deliver  her  to  him  for  certain  sums 
of  money  to  be  paid  to  the  king,  receiving  letters  of  acquittance  and  security 
for  payment.  By  K. 


Membrane  Vjd. 

Nov.  29.  Commission  to  the  mayor  and  sheriffs  of  Hull,  Edmund  Talbot,  esquire, 
Westminster,  and  Nicholas  Leventhorpe,  yeoman  of  the  crown,  to  arrest  Thomjus  Croft, 
'  maryner,'  Alexander  Cardwell,  '  maryuer,'  John  Buile,  'marchaunt,' 
John  Laurence,  *  marchaunt,'  John  Hosteler,  *  marchaunt,'  John  Blasell, 
'  marchaunt,'  Robert  Stevenson,  '  maryner,'  Thomas  Blasell,  '  maryner,' 
John  Sprotte,  '  marchaunt,' John  Markam,  '  marchaunt,' Thomas  Bedall, 
'  maryner,'  John  Jakson,  '  marchaunt,'  and  John  Stubbes,  '  marchaunt,'  and 
bring  them  before  the  king  and  council. 

The  like  to  William  Berkeley,  esquire,  Roger  Kelshale,  yeoman  of  the 
crown,  and  the  sheriff  of  Southampton  to  arrest  William  Whyte  of 
Portesmouth,  '  marchaunt,'  Simon  Laweles,  '  shypman,'  William  Drure 
alias  Druett,  merchant,  and  John  Bokett  of  Neuporte  in  the  Isle  of  Wight, 
merchant. 

The  like  to  Ralph  Hastynges,  knight,  William  Catesby,  knight,  Richard 
Middelton,  Richard  Knyghtley,  Roger  Salysbury  and  the  sheriff  of  North- 
ampton to  arrest  Henry  Michell  of  Flore,  co.  Northampton,  '  gcntilman,' 
and  bring  him  before  the  king  and  council  to  answer  for  certain  riots. 

Dec.  3.  Commission  to  John  Fogge,  knight,  John  Scotte,  knight,  William 
Westminster.  Haute,  knight,  James  Crowmer,  knight,  John  Dygges,  John  I.saak,  John 
Fynyeux,  Roger  Brent  and  William  Brent  to  enquire  into  the  taking  of 
certain  wools,  wool-fells  and  other  goods  and  merchandise  not  customed 
out  of  the  county  of  Kent  in  certain  ports,  creeks  and  places  along  the  sea 
coast  and  into  the  taking  of  certain  goods  and  merchandise  pertaining  to  the 
staple  of  Calais  out  of  the  said  county  to  other  places  than  the  said  staple, 
and  to  certify  thereon  to  the  king  and  council. 

The  like  to  the  following  : — 
John  Elryngton,  Thomas  Echyngham,  knight,  Nicholas  Gaynesford, 
John  Gaynesibrd,  Thomas  Stedolfe,  John  Goryng  and  Vincent 
Fynche  in  the  county  of  Sussex. 


Membrane  \6d. 

Nov.  14.  Commission  to  William  Barkeley,  esquire,  Thomas  Wellys,  Charles 
Westraiuster.  Bulkeley,  esquire,  John  Rogers,  esquire,  Richard  Jay  and  the  sheriff  of 
Southampton.  By  an  inquisition  taken  at  Winchester,  co.  Southampton, 
on  19  October,  11  Edward  IV.  before  Thomas  Troys,  then  esclieator  in 
the  county,  it  was  found  that  William  atte  More,  son  of  John  atte  More 
of  Wytheford,  and  Henry  atte  More  his  son  were  seised  of  tlie  manor  of 
Polhainpton  by  Asshe  and  2oO  acres  of  pasture  in  the  parishes  of  Overton 
and  Kyngesclere,  co.  Southampton,  in  their  demesne  as  of  fee  and  with 
licence  by  letters  patent  dated  12  .Lnnuary,  27  Henry  VI.  granted  the 
same  to  John  Horewode,  son  and  heir  of  William  Horewode,  and  Katharine 
his  wife  to  hold  to  themselves  and  the  heirs  of  their  bodies,  and  the  said 


572 


CALENDAR  OF  PATENT  ROLLS. 


1475.  Membrane  \Qd — cont. 

John  and  Katharine  were  accordingly  seised  of  the  same  in  thoir  demesne 
as  of  fee  tail  and  had  issue  John  Horewode  and  died,  and  affer  their  death 
the  premises  descended  to  the  said  John  the  son  who  was  seised  of  the 
same  in  his  demesne  as  of  fee  tail  on  the  day  of  his  death,  and  the  premises 
are  held  of  the  king  by  the  service  of  an  eighth  part  of  one  knight's  fee  as 
of  escheat  of  the  king's  progenitors  by  the  death  of  the  earl  of  Albemarle, 
and  the  manor  is  worth  10  marks  yearly  and  the  pasture  26*.  Sd.  yearly, 
and  the  said  John  died  on  29  September,  14  Edward  IV.  and  Eleanor 
Horewode  is  his  daughter  and  heir  and  was  of  the  age  of  one  year  at  that 
date.  And  now  the  king  understands  that  Elizabeth  late  the  wife  of  the 
said  John  the  son  brought  forth  a  son  called  John  Horewood  on  15  April 
last,  who  is  his  son  and  heir.  The  commissioners  are  to  enquire  into  the 
matter  and  also  to  enquire  whether  the  said  John  the  second  held  any  more 
lands  or  tenements  on  the  day  of  his  death. 


Membrane  15<?. 

.  April  23,  Commission  to  Thomas  Stanley  of  Stanley,  knight,  William  Stanley, 
Westminster,  knight,  John  Savage,  knight,  Thomas  Mauley,  knight,  James  Stucle, 
knight,  Peter  Liegh,  knight,  John  Stanley,  Thomas  Molyneux,  Thomas 
Danyell,  Roger  Button  of  Dutton,  Peter  Daucton  of  Hatton,  esquire,  John 
Suthworth,  esquire,  and  the  mayor  of  Hartylpole  to  arrest  John  Rutter, 
'gentilman,'  and  John  Obrych  and  others  who  have  received  the  king's 
wages  from  Gilbert  Debenham  to  serve  the  king  in  Ireland  in  his  company 
but  have  not  yet  come  to  the  king's  sei'vice,  and  to  imprison  them  until 
they  shall  restore  the  said  wages  and  find  security  that  they  will  serve  the 
king  in  the  company  of  the  said  Thomas  Danyell  for  the  time  for  which 
they  have  received  wages  and  to  certify  thereon  to  the  king  and  council. 

U76. 

Feb.  12.        Commission  to  George  Stanley,  knight,  Alexander  Houghton,  esquire, 
Westminster.  Robert  Shyrburne,  esquire,  Christopher   Southwurth,   esquire,  Richard 
Towneley,  esquire,  Thomas  Clapham  and  John  Popeley,  esquire,  to  arrest 
Thomas  Talbot,  esquire,  and  bring  him  before  the  king  and  council  to 
answer  for  certain  contempts  and  offences. 


1475.  Membrane  14rf. 

Sept.  26.        Commission  to  Thomas  Pownde,  Thomas  Wellys,  Richard  Jay,  Robert 
Westmiuster.  Vans  and  the  sheriff  of  Southampton,  on  the  death  of  John  Horewode 
{as  on  m.  16c?). 


Membrane  13d. 

Nov.  24,  Commission  to  the  mayor  and  the  recorder  of  the  city  of  York,  Robert 
Westminster.  Constable,  knight,  William  Plumpton,  knight,  William  Stapilton,  knight, 
Ricliard  Pygot,  Thomas  Wytham,  Thomas  Neleson,  John  Marsshall,  Richard 
Yorke,  John  Tonge,  aldermen  of  the  said  city,  William  Hopton  of 
Swillyngton,  John  Nevielle  of  Leversige,  Miles  Willesthorpe,  William 
Eland,  Miles  Metkalfe,  Thomas  Middelton  and  Thomas  Asper  as  justices  in 
the  city  and  county  of  York  to  survey  the  waters  and  rivers  of  Ovvse, 
Wharff,  Eyre,  Donne,  Nyd,  Yore,  Swaille,  Derwent  and  Humbre  pursuant 
to  the  act  in  the  last  Parliament  at  Westminster  concerning  weirs,  mills, 
stanks,  piles  and  kiddles,  and  to  hear  and  determine  all  things  specitied 
in  the  said  act  and  the  statutes  there  mentioned,  saving  to  the  king  the 
amercements  then  accruing. 


/ 

15  EDWARD  IV.~Part  III.  573 


3475.  Membrane  lOrf. 

Dec.  7.  Commission  to  the  king's  brothers  George,  duke  of  Clarence,  and  Eichard, 
Westminster,  duke  of  Gloucester,  the  king's  kinsman  William,  earl  of  Arundel,  Thomas 
Matravers  of  Matravers,  knight,  John  Audeley  of  Audeley,  knight,  Thomas 
Stanley  of  Stanley,  knight,  William  Stourtou  of  Stourton,  knight,  Richard 
Chok,  knight,  John  Catesby,  Richard  Tunstall,  knight,  Roger  Tocotes,  knight, 
John  Wyllughby,  knight,  William  Notyngham,William  Carant,  John  Cheyne, 
John  Mone,  John  Neuburgh,  William  Colyngburn,  John  Wliytokesmede, 
John  Carrant  the  younger,  Thomas  Martyn,Waltcr  Cheverell,  Thomas  Huse, 
Henry  Longe,  Thomas  Rogers,  John  Beucher  and  Morgan  Kydwelly  to 
enquire  into  certain  treasons,  LoUardries,  heresies  and  errors  within  the 
counties  of  Dorset  and  Wilts. 


1476.  Membrane  8d. 

Feb.  9.  Commission  to  Robert  Wylughby,  knight,  Edward  Courtenay,  esquire, 
Westminster.  John  Carmynewe,  esquirc,  and  John  Trclavny  to  arrest  Thomas  Clemens, 
•gentilman,'  John  Dygonett,  '  yoman,'  John  Chypston,  *yoman,' Robert 
Philip,  'yoman,'  John  Ambras,  'yoman,'  John  Dey,  'yoman,'  William 
Gennowe,  'yoman,'  Roger  Dwely,  'yoman,'  William  Cowche,  'yoman,' 
John  Slader,  'yoman,'  Thomas  Flete,  'yoman,'  and  Thomas  Knyght, 
'  yoman,'  and  bring  them  before  the  king  and  council  at  "Westminster  to 
answer  for  certain  riots  and  olfences. 


Membrane  Gd, 

Feb.  17.  Commission  to  the  justices  of  the  peace  in  the  parts  of  Lyndesey  and  the 
Westminster,  sheriff  of  Lincoln  to  arrest  Robert  Pylkyngton  of  the  county  of  Lancaster, 
'  gentilman,'  Thomas  Pylkyngton,  '  gcntilman,'  John  Haiyson,  *  gentilman,' 
Roger  Dyngley,  '  laborer,'  John  Donyngton,  clerk,  .Tohu  Waterhous, 
'  yoman,'  W^illiam  Waterhous,  '  laborer,'  Richard  Waterhous,  '  laborer,' 
Richard  Williamson,  '  laborer,'  Henry  Dawncy,  '  yoman,'  Henry  Osteler, 
*  fysshedryver,'  William  Mylner,  'laborer,'  John  Williamson,  'laborer,' 
Robert  Williamson,  '  laborer,'  John  Ale,  '  laborer,'  Robert  Tetford, '  bocher,' 
Thomas  Barbour,  '  laborer,'  Roger  Edward,  '  laborer,'  William  Suette, 
'bocher,'  John  Clerk,  ' laborer,'  and  William  Gentill,  'laborer,'  and  bring 
them  before  the  king  and  council  to  answer  for  certain  contempts  and 
offences. 

Commission  to  the  king's  kinsman  William,  earl  of  Arundel,  constable 
of  Dover  cnstle  and  warden  of  the  Cinque  Ports,  Thomas  Arundell  of 
Matravers,  kuight,  Thomas  Echyngham,  knight,  Philip  Lewes,  Thomas 
Combes  and  Roger  lircnt  to  enquire  into  the  taking  of  certain  wools,  wool- 
fells  and  other  goods  and  mei  chandise  not  customed  out  of  the  Cinque 
Ports  in  certain  ports,  creeks  and  places  along  the  sea  coast  and  into  the 
taking  of  certain  goods  and  merchandise  pertaining  to  tlie  staple  of  Calais 
out  of  the  said  Cinque  Ports  to  other  places  than  the  said  staple,  and  to 
certify  thereon  to  the  king  and  council. 

Appointment,  during  pleasure,  of  the  king's  kinsman  Richard,  bishop  of 
Salisbury,  Richard  Quatermayns,  Richard  Fouler,  escpiires,  Hugh  Fcnne, 
John  Broke,  Thomas  Swan  and  Thomas  Cobcote  to  survey  the  king's 
castle  and  lordship  of  Windesore  and  all  the  king's  lands  of  Foliejon, 
Hyremore,  Old  Windesore,  New  \Vindesore,  Wynkfeld  and  Ascote  with  all 
other  members  and  lands  belonging  (o  them  and  the  king's  lordships  and 
manors  of  Wodestoke,  Hamburgh,  Stonofchl,  Bladou  and  Wotton  and  the 
hundred  of  Wotton  with  tlicir  members  and  a2)purtenances,  to  enquire  into 
the  extent  and  yearly  value  of  the  premises  and  rent  and  demise  them  to 


Feb.  15. 
Westminster. 


Feb.  21. 

AViiulsor 
Castle. 


674 


CALENDAR  OF  PATENT  ROLLS. 


1476.  Membrane  6d — cont, 

tenants,  and  to  extend  in  money  the  customs  and  works  of  the  king's 
bondmen  and  free  tenants  in  the  said  towns  and  places  and  deliver  them 
thus  extended  to  the  said  tenants,  so  that  the  king  may  be  answered 
both  for  the  farms  and  the  moneys  arising  from  the  customs  and  works 
at  the  hands  of  the  constable  of  the  said  castle  and  the  receiver  of 
the  manor  of  Wodestoke ;  and  appointment  of  them  as  auditors  of  the 
accounts  of  the  constable  and  other  farmers  and  officers  of  the  premises 
from  Michaelmas,  13  Edward  IV.  to  Michaelmas  last  and  so  from  year  to 
year  during  pleasure,  certifying  thereon  to  the  barons  of  the  Exchequer. 

By  K. 

1475. 

Dec.  22.  Appointment,  during  pleasure,  of  the  same  to  survey  the  castle  and 
Westminster,  lordships  of  Wyndesore,  Wodestok,  Busshey,  More,  Dachet  and  Ditton, 
and  to  enquire  into  the  extent  and  true  value  of  the  premises  and  to  audit 
the  accounts  of  the  constable  of  the  castle  and  all  farmers  and  other 
occupiers  and  ministers  of  the  said  lordships,  certifying  thereon  to  the 
barons  of  the  Exchequer. 


1476.  Membrane  5d. 

Feb.  7.  Commission  to  Richard  Chokke,  knight,  John  Catesby  and  John  Wyde- 
Westminster.  slade  to  hear  and  determine  certain  treasons  committed  within  the  county 
of  Devon  by  William  Fyssher  late  of  Exeter,  co.  Devon,  '  yomau,'  William 
Smyth  late  of  Exmouth,  co.  Devon,  '  tayllour,'  John  Selowe  late  of  Portes- 
mouth,  CO.  Southampton,  '  fyssher,'  John  Martyu  late  of  Exmouth, 
*  maryner,'  John  Clement  late  of  Dover,  co.  Kent,  '  maryner,'  and  Henry 
Godyng  late  of  CrisLchirche,  co.  Southampton,  '  maryor,'  saving  to  the 
king  the  armaments  belonging  to  him. 


Membrane  Ad. 

Jan.  2.  General  commission  of  oyer  and  terminer  to  the  king's  first  born  son 
Westminster.  Edward,  prince  of  Wales,  duke  of  Cornwall  and  earl  of  Chester  and  Flynt, 
within  the  counties  of  Salop,  Hereford,  Gloucester  and  Worcester  and  the 
marches  of  Wales  adjacent  and  Wales,  with  power  to  array  the  men  at 
arms,  archers  and  others  there  if  necessary,  and  with  authority  to  substitute 
other  persons  for  himself  provided  that  one  of  the  justices  of  one  or  the 
other  Bench  shall  be  one  of  those  thus  substituted  in  the  said  counties. 

Feb.  23.  Commission  to  the  said  prince  and  his  council  to  be  at  Ludlowe  on 
Westminster,  24  March  next  to  discuss  with  the  lords  of  the  marches,  to  whom  the  king 
has  written  separately,  the  ways  and  means  for  the  punishment  of  many 
homicides,  murders,  robberie.'?,  spoliations  and  oppressions  in  Wales  and  the 
marches  of  the  same,  for  which  the  king  is  going  in  person  to  those  parts 
after  Easter. 


515 


16  EDWAUD  IV.— Paet  I. 


Membrane  29. 

Pardons  of  outlawry  to  the  following  : — 

Thomas  Brugge  of  Dymmoke,  co.  Gloucester,  *  gentilman,'  for  not 
appearing  before  the  justices  of  the  Bench  to  answer  William  Barton 
touching  a  debt  of  40s.  he  having  surrendered  to  the  Flete  prison, 
as  Thomas  Bryan,  chief  justice  of  the  Bench,  has  certified. 

London. 

John  Wody  late  of  Ifeld,  co.  Sussex,  tlie  younger,  'gentilman,'  for  not 
appearing  before  Robert  Danby  and  his  fellows,  late  justices  of  the 
Bench,  to  answef  John  Dryland,  citizen  and  draper  of  London, 
touching  a  debt  of  8  marks  and  Richard  Suthwell  and  James  Iloberd 
touching  a  debt  of  18/.  13*.  4d.  and  before  Thomas  Bryan  and  his 
fellows,  justices  of  the  Bench,  to  answer  Richard  Elyot  and  William 
Shadet  touching  a  debt  of  201.  Middlesex. 

Suffolk. 
Surrey. 

Robert  Aysshe  of  Dorchestre,  co.  Dorset,  *  marchaunt,'  for  not  appearing 
before  John  Prisot  and  his  fellows,  justices  of  the  Bench  of  tho 
late  king,  to  answer  William  Swayn  touching  a  debt  of  11/. 

Wilts. 

Thomas  Gerard  late  of  London,  knight,  alias  Thomas  Gerrard  of  Brayn, 
CO.  Chester,  '  knyght,*  for  not  appearing  before  the  justices  of  tho 
Bench  to  answer  William  Parker,  citizen  and  tailor  of  London, 
touching  a  debt  of  14/.  17s.  Od.  London. 

Robert  Croke  late  of  London,  '  gentylman,'  for  not  appearing  to  answer 
John  Walsshe  touching  a  debt  of  40/.  Gloucester. 

John  Beryn  late  of  Cleyton,  co.  Lancaster,  esquire,  alias  John  Beron 
of  Clayton,  '  gentylman,'  for  not  appearing  to  answer  William 
Parker,  citizen  and  tailor  of  London,  touching  a  debt  of  6/.  4s.  lOd. 

London. 

John  Pykburn  late  of  Pykburn,  co.  York,  '  yoman,'  for  not  appearing 
to  answer  John  Ncvylle  of  Wymbersley,  esijuire,  touching  a  trespass. 

York. 

Richard  Broun  late  of  Brompton  by  Northallerton,  co,  York,  '  yoman,' 
for  not  appearing  to  answer  a  plea  that  he  render  40s.  to  Marion 
Kent,  widow,  executrix  of  the  will  of  John  Kent,  late  citizen  and 
mercer  of  York.  City  of  York. 

William  Thurstone  late  of  Eston,  co.  Huntingdon,  '  yoman,'  for  not 
appearing  to  answer  John  Chapman  of  Bcnyngdon,  co.  Hertford,  the 
younger,  |late  the  brother  of  Thomas  Chapman,  clerk,  touching  a 
debt  of  40/.  London. 

John  Newcman  of  Halstowe,  co.  Kent,  '  husbondman,'  for  not 
appearing  before  Robert  Danby  and  his  fellows,  late  ju.stices  of 
the  Bench,  to  answer  John  Conyere  touching  a  debt  of  40.?.  Kent. 

John  Harry  late  of  Leskerdburgh,  co.  Cornwall,  'yoman,'  for  not 
appearing  before  tho  justices  of  the  Bench  to  answer  Thomas  Laan 
touching  a  trespass  and  John  Glyn,  executor  of  tho  will  of  John  Glyn 
the  elder  late  of  Morvalc,  touching  a  trespass.  Cornwall. 


576 


CALENDAR  OF  PATENT  ROLLS. 


1476. 


May  9. 
Westminster. 


May  18. 
Westminster. 


May  17. 

Westminster. 


May  22. 
Westminster. 


May  20. 

Westminster. 


May  1. 

Westminster. 


May  24. 
Westminster. 


May  18. 
Westminster. 


Membrane  29 — cont. 

Edward  Ponynges  late  of  Craford,  co.  Kent,  clerk,  for  not  appearing 
to  answer  Robert  Fitz  Herberd,  citizen  and  draper  of  London, 
touching  a  debt  of  201.  London. 

Robert  Banyngham  alias  Badyngham  of  Seynluaryburgh,  co.  Norfolk, 
clerk,  for  not  appearing  before  Robert  Danby  and  his  fellows,  late 
justices  of  the  Bench,  to  answer  John  Byrd  of  Bysshoppys  Lynne 
touching  a  debt  of  40*.  Norfolk. 

Robert  Shotte  late  of  Bronleght,  co.  Kent,  *  husbondman,'  for  not 
appearing  before  the  justices  of  the  Bench  to  answer  John  Argaston 
alias  Argarston  touching  a  debt  of  405.  Kent. 

Thomas  Neell  late  of  Whatcote,  co.  Warwick,  clerk,  for  not  appearing 
to  answer  Nicholas  Lee,  suing  for  the  king  and  himself,  for 
having  maintained  a  complaint  on  the  part  of  John  Banbury  late  of 
Watcote,  *  husbondman,'  at  London  in  a  suit  between  the  said 
Nicholas  and  the  said  John  touching  a  trespass.  London. 

Walter  Kynnecote  late  of  Exeter,  co.  Devon,  clerk,  for  not  appearing 
before  Thomas  Bryan  and  his  fellows,  justices  of  the  Bench,  to 
satisfy  Edward  May  of  7/.  which  the  latter  recovered  against  him 
and  265.  8rf.  damages.  Devon. 

John  Penfoun  late  of  Penfoun,  co.  Cornwall,  esquire,  for  not  appearing 
before  the  justices  of  the  Bench  to  answer  Nicholas  Mille,  citizen 
and  tailor  of  London,  touching  a  debt  of  150/.  18*.  Id.  London. 

John  Beamond  late  of  Bodrugan,  co.  Cornwall,  esquire,  for  the  same. 

London. 

Thomas  Fraunceys  of  Kempston  Hardewyke,  co.  Bedford,  *  husbond- 
man,' for  not  appearing  to  answer  Stephen,  prior  of  the  house 
of  St.  Mary,  Chikesand,  co.  Bedford,  touching  a  debt  of  6O5. 

Bedford. 

Christopher  Harecourt  late  of  Longecombe,  co.  Oxford,  esquire,  for 
not  appearing  to  answer  William,  abbot  of  the  monastery  of 
St.  Mary,  Hayles,  touching  a  debt  of  20/.  Gloucester. 

Henry  Bodrugan  late  of  Bodrugan,  co.  Cornwall,  esquire,  for  not 
appearing  to  answer  Nicholas  Mille,  citizen  and  tailor  of  London, 
touching  a  debt  of  150/.  18s.  Id.  London. 

Robert  Fryday  late  of  Balderton,  co.  Nottingham,  '  husbondman,'  for 
not  appearing  before  Robert  Dauby  and  Jiis  fellows,  late  justices  of 
the  Bench,  to  answer  John  Bussy,  knight,  touching  a  trespass 
committed  by  him  with  John  White  late  of  Balderton, '  husbondman.' 

Nottingham. 

John  Sonday  late  of  Chelmeford,  co.  Essex,  '  yoman,'  for  not  appearing 
before  the  justices  of  the  Bench  to  answer  Richard  Haryson  of 
London, '  barker,'  touching  a  debt  of  40s.  Middlesex. 


Membrane  28. 


June  28. 
Westminster. 


June  19. 
Westminster. 


William  Bysshopc  late  of  Leveryngton,  co.  Cambridge,  chaplain, 
executor  of  the  will  of  Thomas  Byllyng,  for  not  appearing  to 
answer  a  plea  that  he  render  chattels  to  the  value  of  4  marks  to 
John  Taillour,  executor  of  the  will  of  William  Taillour.  London. 

George  Fillyng  late  of  Norwich,  '  mercer,'  for  not  appearing  before 
Robert  Danby  and  his  fellows,  late  justices  of  the  Bench,  to  answer 
Nicholas  Neuman  touching  a  debt  of  40^-  City  of  Norwich. 


16  EDWARD  IV.— Part  I 


577 


1476. 

July  3. 
Westminster. 


July  9. 
Westminster. 

July  10. 
Westminster. 


July  10. 
Westminster. 


July  9. 
Westminster. 


July  11. 
W«stminster. 


May  18. 


Oct.  16. 

Westminster. 

Oct.  17. 
Westminster. 

Oct.  12. 
Westminster. 


July  5. 
Westminster. 


Oct.  23. 

Westminster. 

Oct.  9. 
Westminster. 

Oct.  22. 

Westminster. 


Oct.  23, 

Westminster. 


Oct.  25. 
Westminster, 


y  96186. 


Membrane  28 — cont. 

Robert  Warde  of  Kyrkebybidon,  co.  Norfolk,  'gentilmau,'  for  not 
appearing  before  the  justices  of  the  Bench  to  answer  George  Ganelle 
touching  a  debt  of  10/.  and  Philip  Bosard  of  Dechyngham,  co. 
Norfolk,  touching  a  debt  of  20/.  City  of  Norwich. 

John  Bouk  late  of  Birchangre,  co.  Essex,  '  busbondman,'  for  not 
appearing  to  answer  William  AyJey  touciiing  a  trespass.  Hertford. 

Edmund  Warde  late  of  Norhampton,  'plomer,'  for  not  appearing 
before  Robert  Danby  and  his  fellows,  justices  of  the  Bench,  to 
answer  Roger  Stone,  chaplain,  touching  a  debt  of  40*.  London. 

John  Grymer  late  of  Rodburgh,  co.  Gloucester,  '  toukcr,'  alias  of 
Strodewater,  co.  Gloucester,  '  clothman,'  for  not  appearing  before  the 
justices  of  the  Bench  to  answer  Thomas  Stalbroke,  knight,  citizen 
and  alderman  of  Loudon,  touching  a  debt  of  G/.  IG*.  Loudon. 

Thomas  Denmon  alias  Denman  late  of  Ordeshall  alias  Orteshall,  co. 
Nottingham,  esquire,  for  not  appearing  to  answer  a  pica  thai  he 
render  100  marks  to  Robert  Clyftou,  knight,  Richard  Bothe  and 
Seth  de  Worsley,  executors  of  the  will  of  William,  late  archbishop 
of  York.  Middlesex. 

Richard  Ncweton  late  of  London,  'yoman,'  for  not  appearing  to 
answer  a  plea  that  he  render  his  account  to  Thomas  Lenesdale  for 
the  time  when  he  was  his  receiver  and  bailiff  in  the  town  of 
Westminster.  Middlesex, 

John  Sonday  late  of  Chelmesford,  co.  Essex,  '  yoman,'  for  not 
appearing  to  answer  Richard  Haryson  of  London,  *  baker,*  touching 
a  debt  of  40*.  Mitldlcsex. 

Hugh  Chyrcheward  late  of  Ipplepenne,  co.  Devon,  *  fremason,'  for  not 
appearing  to  answer  Henry  Dany  touching  a  trespass,  Devon. 

John  Fyncheley  of  Penkryche,  co.  Stafford,  'smyth,'  for  not  appearing 
to  answer  George  Falmay,  citizen  and  skinner  of  London,  touching 
a  debt  of  10  marks,  London. 

Thomas  Cockes  late  of  Long  Astern,  co.  Somerset,  '  colyer,'  for  not 
appearing  to  answer  John  Longford  touching  a  debt  of  10/. 

Gloucester. 

Tliomas  Lyndosey  late  of  Swaby,  co.  Lincoln,  'gentilman,'  for  not 
appearing  to  answer  Richard  Godewyn  of  Bishop's  Lenn,  merchant, 
touching  a  debt  of  20/.  Norfolk. 

Thomas  Mynskip  of  Beverley,  co.  York,  the  younger,  '  gentilman,'  for 
not  appearing  to  answer  John  Burgoyn  touching  a  debt  of  11/. 

Middlesex. 

John  Typper  late  of  Asteley,  co.  Warwick,  'yoman,'  for  not  appearing 
to  answer  Edmund,  earl  of  Kent,  touching  a  trespass.  London. 

RaliA  Worseley  alias  Wolselcy  late  of  London,  'gentilman,'  late  one 
of  the  barons  of  the  Exchequer,  for  not  appearing  to  answer  John 
Rogers,  'gentilman,'  and  Alice  his  wife  touching  a  debt  of  200/.  and 
Edmund  Shaa,  citizen  and  goldsmith  of  London,  touching  a  debt  of 
20  marks.  London. 

William  Crouche  of  Smerden,  co.  Kent,  'thecchar,'  for  not  ai)pearing 
before  John  Prysot  and  his  lellows,  justices  of  the  Bench  of  the  late 
king,  to  answer  a  plea  that  ho  render  chattels  to  the  value  of  40*,  to 
John  Spyldesell.  Kent. 

William  Godyngton  late  of  Circncesire,  co,  Gloucester, '  fysshemongcr,' 
for  not  appearing  before  the  justices  of  the  Bench  to  answer 
Thomas  Walker  touching  a  debt  of  40*.  Middlesex, 

0  0 


5l8  CALENDAE  OF  PATENT  ROLLS. 


1476. 

Oct.  9. 

Westminster. 


Oct.  25. 
Westminster. 


Oct.  12. 

Westminster. 

Oct  26. 

Westminster. 


Oct.  26. 
Westminster. 


Oct.  2G. 

Westminster. 

Oct.  25. 
Westminster. 


Oct.  28. 

W^'stniiuster. 

Oct.  9. 
Westminster. 

Nov.  3. 
Westminster. 

Nov.  G. 
Westminster. 

Nov.  6. 

Westmiaster. 


Membrane  28 — cont. 
Jolin  Neweman  late  of  Kemsyng,  co.  Kent,  the  younger,  'liusboudman,' 
son  of  John  Newemau  the  elder  late  of  Kemsyng,  for  not  appearing 
to  answer  Richard  Bedyll  of  the  parish  of  Chesilherst,  co.  Kent, 


touching  a  debt  of  131.  lOs. 


London. 


William  Batell,  parson  of  the  parish  church  of  St.  John,  Staunton,  co. 
Oxford,  for  not  appearing  to  answer  a  plea  that  he  render  40/.  to 
John  Wyllyams  of  the  parish  of  St.  Giles  without  Crepulgate, 
brewer  of  the  city  of  London,  administrator  of  the  goods  of  George 
Irlond,  knight,  late  citizen  and  alderman  of  London,  who  died 
intestate.  London. 

John  Athelek  late  of  Wynthorpe,  co.  Lincoln,  merchant,  for  not 
appearing  to  answer  John  Hunt  of  Notyngham,  *  marchaunt,' 
touching  a  debt  of  6/.  Nottingham  Town. 

John  Hotot  late  of  Stowemarket,  co.  Suffolk,  '  gentilman,'  administrator 
of  the  goods  of  Robert  Hotot  late  of  StoAvemarket,  '  gentilman,'  for 
not  appearing  to  answer  Thomas  Mongomery,  knight,  touching  a  debt 
of  100,s.  Essex. 

John  Thomson  late  of  Gysburn,  co.  York,  *  marchaunt,'  for  not 
appearing  when  sued  with  George  Danby,  prior  of  the  Friars  Minor 
of  Scardeburgh,  co.  York,  and  Robert  Harum  late  of  Scardeburgh, 
chaplain,  to  answer  Thomas  Sage  touching  a  trespass.  Loudon. 

Thomas  Salman  of  Thryber,  co.  York,  clerk,  for  not  appearing  to 
answer  Richard  Wentworth,  esquire,  touching  a  trespass.  York. 

William  Heryng  of  Wandeborough,  co.  Wilts,  '  husbondman,'  for  not 
appearing  before  Robert  Danby  and  his  fellows,  late  justices  of 
the  Bench,  when  sued  with  Roger  Taillour  of  Litilhenton,  co.  Wilts, 
'  yoman,'  Richard  Loveday  of  Litilhenton,  '  yoman,'  John  Smyth  of 
Litilhenton,  'yoman,'  John  Dowes  of  Litilhenton, ' yoman,'  William 
Coventre  of  Wandeborough,  '  husbondman,'  William  Piers  of 
Wandeborough,  '  husbondman,'  Philip  Warner  of  Aysshedonpark, 
CO.  Berks,  'yoman,'  William  Gegyll  of  Aysshebury,  co.  Berks, 
'husbondman,'  John  Colles  of  Aysshebury,  '  husbondman,'  Robert 
Swayno  of  Ordeston  in  the  parish  of  Aysshebury,  'husbondman,' 
Richard  Colles  of  Ordeston,  'husbondman,'  and  John  Monke  of 
Ordeston,  '  husbondman,'  to  finswer  the  king  touching  a  trespass. 

Wilts. 

The  said  William  Piers  for  the  same.  Wilts. 

Richard  Bugge  of  Sampford  Spyue,  co.  Devon, 'yoman,' for  not  ap- 
pearing before  the  king  to  answer  William  Gylle  touching  a 
trespass.  Devon. 

Thomas  Nelmc  late  of  P'ylton,  co.  Gloucester,  'yoman,'  for  not 
appearing  before  the  justices  of  the  Bench  to  answer  William 
Berkely,  esquire,  touching  a  debt  of  4  marks.  Warwick. 

John  Gotholhan  late  of  Gotholhan,  co.  Cornwall,  esquire,  for  not 
appearing  to  answer  Nicholiis  Mille,  citizen  and  tailor  of  London, 
touching  a  debt  of  150/.  18.s.  7d.  London. 

Richard  Tewersle  late  of  Crancley,  co.  Surrey,  '  husbondman,'  for  not 
appearing  to  answer  Robert  Shorter  of  London  touching  a  debt  of 
11 5^.  9d.  Loudon. 

John  Athehowe,  late  of  Craueley,  '  husbondman,'  for  the  same. 

London. 

Thomas  Preston  late  of  Marowe,  co.  Surrey,  *  husbondman,'  for  not 
appearing  when  sued  witli  Alice  his  wife,  executrix  of  the  will  of 


16  EDWARD  IV.— Part  I. 


579 


Membrane  2%-—cont. 

John  Boteler  late  of  the  parish  of  Wonersh,  co.  Surrey,  'husbond- 
man,'  to  answer  a  plea  tliat  they  render  20  marks  to  John  Dunne 
the  elder  and  John  Polstede.  Middlesex. 


Membrane  27. 

John  Wylde  of  ITpmenster,  co.  Essex,  '  husbondman,'  for  not  appearing 
to  answer  John  Conyer  touching  a  debt  of  40*.  Kent. 

William  Yong  of  Burgh,  co.  York,  '  maryner,'  for  not  appearing  before 
Robert  Danby  and  his  fellows,  late  justices  of  the  Bench,  to  answer 
John  Burgony  touching  a  debt  of  10/.  Norfolk. 

Robert  Meyre  late  of  Wareham,  co.  Dorset,  '  husbondman,'  for  not 
appearing  to  satisfy  William  Whyte  of  5  marks  which  the  latter 
recovered  against  him  and  135.  4d.  damages.  Dorset. 

Andrew  Hewke  late  of  Westoftys,  co.  Norfolk,  '  husbondman,'  for  not 
appearing  before  the  justices  of  the  Bench  to  answer  John  River 
touching  a  debt  of  15/.  12^.  6c/.  Suffolk. 

Thomas  Kyrk  of  Boston,  co.  Lincoln,  *  corveser,'  for  not  appearing 
before  Robert  Danby  and  his  fellows,  late  justices  of  the  Bench,  to 
answer  Henry  Jurdan,  citizen  and  fishmonger  of  London,  touching  a 
debt  of  20/.  London. 

Edmund  Wrenne  late  of  Kyrkeley,  co.  Suffolk,  'chapman,'  for  not 
appearing  before  John  Prisot  and  his  fellows,  justices  of  the  Bench 
of  the  late  king,  to  answer  (JeofErey  Boleyn,  citizen,  mercer  and 
alderman  of  London,  touching  a  debt  of  40^.  Loudon. 

Richard  Badcok  of  Rathewill  by  Lansalwys,  co.  Cornwall,  '  hu.sbond- 
man,'  for  not  appearing  before  the  king  to  answer  William  Peke 
touching  a  trespass  committed  by  liim  and  John  Badcok  of  Rathe- 
will  the  elder, '  husbondman,' John  Badcok  of  Rathewyll  the  younger, 
'  husbondman,'  Thomas  Peke  of  Rathewyll,  '  husbondman,'  William 
Hankyn  of  Trcgcmelan  by  Penkeliowe,  co.  Cornwall,  '  husbondman,' 
Thomas  Wilton  of  Tregwynnek  by  Bogga  Millc,  co.  Cornwall,  the 
elder,  '  husbondman,'  and  Thomas  Eurmayu  of  Bokynnowo,  co. 
Cornwall,  '  husbondman.'  Cornwall. 

William  Lenehons  alias  Lenous  of  Stratford  by  Ilolfon,  co.  Suffolk, 
'husbondman,'  alias  '  bocher,'  for  not  appearing  before  the  justices 
of  the  Bench  to  .answer  Roger  Burgh  and  Joan  his  wife  touciiing  a 
debt  of  6/.  and  Thomas  Haton  touching  a  debt  of  40^.  .SuHTolk. 

Thomas  Ilempstede  of  Norwich,  *  marchant,'  alias  Thomas  Ilcnstede, 
citizen  and  meix-er  of  Norwich,  for  not  appearing  before  Robert 
Danby  and  his  fellows,  late  justices  of  the  Bench,  to  ansAver  Willi.am 
Sayer  of  Lave'nham,  co.  SulFolk,  John  Foisham,  '  mcccr,'  John 
Butte,  citizen  and  alderman  of  Norv/ich,  and  Kichard  Albon,  citizen 
and  alderman  of  Norwich,  touching  debts  of  101/.,  3{jl.,  20/.  and 
16/.  respectively,  and  before  Thomas  Bryan  and  his  fellows,  justices 
of  the  Bench,  to  answer  Thomas  Elys,  citizen  and  alderman  of 
Norwich,  and  Richard  Stooke  of  Bury  St.  Edmunds  touching  debts 
of  40/.  and  35/.  6s.  8d.  respectively. 

Suffolk,  Norfolk,  City  of  Norwich,  London. 

William  Wood  of  Slyngesby,  co.  York,  '  husbondman,'  alias  William 
Woodtl  of  Slynesby,  for  not  appearing  before  the  justices  of  the  Bench 
to  answer  John  Wodkok  late  of  Relyugtou  touching  a  debt  of 
10  marks.  London. 

o  o  2 


580 


CALENDAR  OP  PATENT  ROLLS. 


1476.  Membrane  27 — cont. 

Nov,  11.  Henry  Archebald  late  of  Bristol, '  tayllour,'  for  not  appearing  to  answer 

Westminster.  Richard  Banke  touching  a  debt  of  100s.  City  of  York. 

Oct.  25.  John  Dyer  late  of  Oldebury,  co.  Gloucester,  '  husbondman,'  for  not 

Westminster.  appearing  to  answer  Richard  Bray  touching  a  trespass.  Somerset. 

Nov.  4.  Richard  Calverley  of  Suthwerk,  co.  Surrey,  'fuller,'  and  Marjory  his 

Westminster.  \Tife,  executrix  of  the  will  of  Christopher  Shawe,  for  not  appearing 

to  answer  a  plea  that  they  render  40*.  to  George  Falmay,  citizen  and 
skinner  of  London.  London. 

Nov.  14.  Thomas  Proktour  late  of  Oxford,  clerk,  for  not  appearing  to  answer 

Westminster.  a  plea  that  he  render  chattels  to  the  value  of  30/.  to  Thomas  Darell, 

esquire.  Wilts. 

Nov.  12.  William  Alee  of    Godstone,   co.  Surrey,   'husbondman,'   for  not 

Westminster.  appearing  to  answer  John  Fane  touching  a  debt  of  40s.  Kent. 

Nov.  6.  William  Wase,  rector  of  the  parish  church  of  St.  Mary,  Wyke,  co. 

Westminster.  Cornwall,  for  not  appearing  to  answer  John  Freman  touching  a 

debt  of  lOU/.  Middlesex. 

Nov.  6.  James  Baskefyld  late  of  London,  knight,  for  not  appearing  to  answer 

Westminster.  William  Parker,  citizen  and  tailor  of  Loudon,  touching  a  debt  of 

42s.  iOd.  London. 

Nov.  15.  Thurstan  Sale  late  of  Belton,  co.  Leicester,  '  yoman,'  administrator  of 

Westminster.  the  goods  late  of  Henry  Chaderton  late  of  Haveryng  atte  Boure. 

CO.  Essex,  esquire,  who  died  intestate,  for  not  appearing  to  answer 
Richard  Knyght  of  Kelledon,  co.  Essex, '  yoman,'  touching  a  debt 
of  40/.  Essex. 

Nov.  2.  George  Plesaunce  late  of  Kyngyssutton,  co.  Northampton,  '  husbond- 

Westmiaster.  man,'  for  not  appearing  to  answer  a  plea  that  he  render  40/,  to 

William  Chedworth,  esquire,  alias  father  of  Master  John  Ched worth, 
late  archdeacon  of  Lincoln,  doctor  of  laws  and  prebendary  of 
Kyngessutton,  and  Joan  his  wife,  mother  of  the  said  John,  executors 
of  his  will.  Middlesex. 

Oct.  30.  Edward  Lane  late  of  Hordyll,  co,  Southampton,  '  yoman,'  for  not 

Westminster.  appearing  to  answer  Robert  Stoneham  and  Robert  Kelyng  touching 

a  trespass.  Southampton. 

Oct.  16.  Stephen  Dousyng  of  Est  Ingolmell,  co.  Lincoln,  chaplain,  alias  late 

Westminster.  of  Esterkele,  co.  Lincoln,  for  not  appearing  to  render  his  account 

to  William  Rither,  knight,  for  the  time  when  he  was  his  receiver. 

Lincoln. 

Nov.  19.  Geoffrey  Veale  late  of  Plymmouth,  co.  Devon,  '  marchaunt,'  for  not 

Westminster.  appearing  to  answer  Robert  Burton,  esquire,  touching  a  debt  of 

70s.  Devon. 

Oct.  30.  John  Holand   of  Abketelby,  co.  Leicester,  '  husbondman,'  for  not 

Westminster.  appearing  when  sued  with  William  Holand,  vicar  of  the  parish 

church  of  Abketelby,  to  answer  a  plea  that  they  render  7  marks 
6s.  8c?.  to  Gilbert  Husee,  esquire.  London. 

Oct.  16.  John  Burgeys  late  of  the  parish  of  Westhamme,  co.  Essex,  '  miller,' 

Westminster.  alias  late  of  Stratford  atte  Bowe,  co.  Middlesex,  'baker,'  for  not 

appearing  before  the  justices  of  the  Bench  to  answer  John  Jordan, 
citizen  and  tailor  of  London,  touching  a  debt  of  27/.  and  before 
Robert  Danby  and  his  fellows,  late  justices  of  the  Bench,  to  answer 
John  Dowetys,  citizen  and  'steynour'  of  London,  touching  a  debt 
of  6/.  London,  Middlesex. 


16  EDWARD  IV.— Part  I. 


581 


1476.  Membrane  27 — cont. 

Nov.  6.  Edmund  Benet  late  of  Strodewater,  co.  Gloucester,  *  clothemaker,'  for 

Westmiaster.  not  appearing  before  the  justices  of  the  Bench  to  answer  Thomas 

Hill,  citizen  and  grocer  and  Jilderman  of  London,  touching  a  debt 
of  18/.  London. 

Oct.  30.  William  Holand,  vicar  of  the  parish  church  of  Abketelby,  co.  Leicester, 

Westminster.  for  not  appearing  when  sued  with  John  Holand  of  Abketelby, 

'  husbondman,'  to  answer  a  plea  that  they  render  7  marks  6*.  8c?.  to 
Gilbert  Husse,  esquire.  London. 

Nov.  28.  John  Durston  of  Faversham,  co.  Kent,  'chapman,'  for  not  appearing 

Westminster.  to  answer  Richard  Everley,  citizen  and  mercer  of  London,  touching 

a  debt  of  15/.  London, 


Membrane  26. 

Nov.  22.  Robert  Bowode  alias  Baylly  late  of  Hungrehatley,  co.  Cambridge, 

Westminster.  •  husbondman,'  for  not  appearing  to  answer  a  plea  that  he  render 

20  marks  to  William  Wentworth  and  Margaret  his  wife,  executrix 
of  the  will  of  William  Seyntgeorge  late  of  Esthatley,  knight. 

Cambridge. 

Nov.  19.  William  Smyth  late  of  Stoweraarket  at  Chelton,  co.  Suffolk,  '  husboud- 

Westminster.  man,'  alias  of  Chelton,  for  not  appearing  to  answer  .John  Poulyn, 

clerk,  touching  a  debt  of  40/.  Suffolk. 

Nov.  27.  Ralph  Caldebek  late  of  Coventre,  '  mercer,'  for  not  appearing  to  answer 

Westminster.  John  Caldebek  of  London  touching  a  debt  of  8/.  Middlesex. 

1477. 

Jan.  24.  Thomas  Roger  late  of  Bishop's  Hatfeld,  co.  Hertford,  'yoman,'  for 

Westminster.  uot  appearing  to  answer  William  Fyssher,  citizen  and  skinner  of 

London,  touching  a  debt  of  42*.  London. 

Jan.  30.  Richard  Bayte  of  Great  Byllyng,  co.  Northampton,  clerk,  for  not 

Westminster.  appearing  before  John  Prysot  and  his  fellows,  justices  of  the  Bench 

of  the  late  king,  to  answer  Thomas  Astyn,  chaplain,  touching  a  debt 
of  4  marks.  York. 

Feb.  4.  Thomas  Wodehou.se  late  of  Dedham,  co.  Essex,  'clotheman,'  for  not 

Westminster.  appearing  before  the  justices  of  the  Bench  to  answer  Bartholomew 

Donne,  citizen  and  tailor  of  London,  touching  a  debt  of  40/. 

London. 

Jan  23.  John  Cotes  late  of  Sutton  on  Derwent,  co.  York,  '  yoman,'  for  not 

Westminster.  appearing  to  answer  a  plea  that  he  render  40*.  to  John  Shirwode, 

archdeacon  of  Richmond,  and  Agnes  late  the  wife  of  John  Shirwod 
late  of  York,  executors  of  the  will  of  John  Shirwod.     City  of  York. 

Feb.  6.  William  Boreman  late  of  London,  'draper,'  and  Joan  his  wife,  late  the 

Westminster.  wife  of  Laurence  Cok,  executrix  of  the  will  of  Laurence  Cok  late 

of  London,  '  mercer,'  for  not  appearing  to  answer  a  plea  that  they 
render  8/.  to  John  Wynter.  Suffolk. 

Feb.  5.  John  Fuller  late  of  Dysse,  co.  Norfolk,  'yoman,'  for  not  appearing 

Westminster.  before  Robert  Danby  and  his  fellows,  late  justices  of  the  Bench,  to 

answer  John  Buxton  of  Stowc  Market  and  Margaret  Mannyng  of 
Stowc  Market,  widow,  touching  a  debt  of  12/.  SuHblk. 

Feb.  12.  Stephen  Cardewe  late  of  Carvergh  by  Soynt  Austell,  co.  Cornwall, 

Westminster.  '  yoman,'  alias  late  of  Treverbyn  in  the  parish  of  Seynt  Austell,  for 

not  appearing  before  the  justices  of  the  Bench  to  answer  John  Colwyll 
touching  a  debt  of  5  marks.  Cornwall. 


582 


CALENDAR  OF  PATENT  ROLLS. 


1477.  Membrane  2Q—cont. 

Jan.  23.  Thomas  Mey  late  of  Wysbeche,  co.  Cambridge,  'husbondman,'  for  not 

Westminster.  appearing  to  answer  William  Foorde  of  Hadley  alias  Hadlegh,  co. 

Suffolk,  '  marchaunt,'  touching  a  debt  of  13Z.  l'6s.  id.  London. 

Jan.  24.  John  Crosse  of  Bekes well,  co.  Norfolk,  'yoman,'  for  not  appearing 

Westminster,  before  the  king  to  answer  John  Rychere  touching  a  trespass. 

Norfolk. 

Jan.  23.  John  Morton  late  of  London,  clerk,  for  not  appearing  before  Robert 

Westminster.  Danby  and  his  fellows,  late  justices  of  the  Bench,  to  answer  Robert 

Rodes  touching  a  debt  of  66^.  13*.  4c?.  Middlesex. 

Jan.  25.  John  Erie  late  of  Ocle  Lyre,  co.  Hereford,  '  hnsbondman,'  alias 

Westminster.  farmer  of  Lyre,  for  not  appearing  before  the  justices  of  the  Bench 

to  answer  William  Wyldy,  prior  of  the  house  of  Jesus  of  Betheleem, 
Shene,  touching  a  deist  of  4  marks.  Middlesex. 

William  Bythewater  late  of  Hampole,  co.  York,  'gentilman,'  for  not 
appearing  to  answer  Thomas  Waren  for  having  taken  and  detained 
his  beasts.  York. 


1476. 

March  4. 
Westminster. 

March  16. 
Buckden. 


March  21. 
Buckden. 


March  22. 
Buckden. 

March  18. 
Buckden. 


Membrane  25. 

General  pardon  to  William  Ruggewey  alias  Ryggeway  of  Exmynster, 
CO.  Devon,  '  husbondman '  alias  '  yomaa.'  By  p.s. 

Licence  for  the  king's  kinsman  Thomas,  cardinal  archbishop  of  Canter- 
bury, Robert,  bishop  of  Bath  and  Wells,  the  king's  kinsmen  John,  duke  of 
Suffolk,  William,  earl  of  Arundel,  Henry,  earl  of  Esses,  and  Anthony, 
earl  Ryviers,  lord  of  Scales  and  Nucelles,  and  John  Say,  knight,  to  grant 
the  manors  of  Ardyngton,  co.  Berks,  Barford  St.  Martin,  co.  Wilts,  and 
Til orpvvatyr vile,  Aldwynkle,  Achirch,  Chelveston  and  Caldecote,  co.  North- 
ampton, with  all  other  lands,  rents,  reversions  and  services  in  the  towns 
and  manors  aforesaid,  held  in  chief,  to  Thomas,  marquis  of  Dorset,  lord  of 
Harryngton,  Bonevile  and  Asteley,  son  of  the  king's  consort  Elizabeth, 
queen  of  England,  to  hold  for  life  by  the  services  of  as  many  knight's  fees 
and  as  many  other  rents  and  services  as  they  were  held  by  before  4  March, 
1  Edward  IV.  By  p.s. 

Grant  to  Elizabeth  Scrope,  lady  le  Scrope,  widow,  and  her  assigns  of  the 
custody  of  the  manor  of  Pifhide,  co.  Essex,  with  all  rents,  services  of 
tenants,  advowsons,  courts,  leets,  mills,  profits,  emoluments  and  com- 
modities belonging  to  it  and  200  acres  of  laud,  20  acres  of  meadow  in 
Pifhide  called  '  Brittes  tenementes,'  40  acres  of  land  in  Willyngliall  called 
'  Mynges,'  40  acres  of  land  in  Willinghall  called  'Pelhammes'  and  18 
acres  of  land  in  Willinghall,  co.  Essex,  late  of  Thomas  Scrope  of  Masham, 
knight,  deceased,  tenant  in  chief  by  knight-service,  during  the  minority  of 
Thomas  his  son  and  heir,  without  rendering  any  account,  provided  that  she 
do  not  make  any  waste  therein.  By  p.s. 

Presentation  of  Thomas  Cowell  to  the  perpetual  vicarage  of  the  church 
of  Tykenham,  in  the  diocese  of  Norwich. 

Grant  for  life  to  the  king's  servant  Oliver  Kyng,  master  of  the  seven 
liberal  arts  and  licentiate  in  laws,  of  the  office  of  the  king's  first  secretary  in 
the  French  tongue,  witli  such  fee,  liberties  and  profits  as  Master  Gervase, 
sometime  secretary,  had ;  and  grant  that  he  shall  be  able  to  receive  bills 
signed  with  the  king's  hand  and  make  out  warrants  to  the  chancellor  of 
England  or  the  privy  seal  with  the  king's  letters  in  Latin  and  English. 
\Fcedera.']  By  K. 


16  EDWARD  IV.— Part  I. 


683 


1476.  Membrane  25 — cont. 

April  1.  General  pardon  to  Eobert  Tokehill  of  Hungreford,  co.  Berks,  *  cloth- 
Liddington.    man.'  By  p.s. 

April  1 .  General  pardon  to  William  Morlond  alias  Morland  late  of  the  town  of 
Liddington.    Westminster,  clerk.  By  K. 

April  1.  General  pardon  to  Martin  Joliffe,  citizen  and  '  upholdster '  of  London,  alias 
Buckden.     Martin  Jolif  of  London,  '  gentilman.'  By  p.s. 

April  11.        Appointment  for  life,  with  the  assent  of  the  king's  brother  George,  duke 
Lincoln.     of  Clarence,  lieutenant  of  Ireland,  of  Richard  Heron  as  cajjtain,  lieutenant 
and  victualler  of  the  king's  castle  of  Cragvergos  alias  Gragvergos  alias 
Knokvergous,  in  Ireland,  receiving  the  accustomed  fees  from  the  issues  of 
the  castle  and  lordship  of  Cragvergos,  with  all  other  profits.  By  p.s. 

May  2.         Grant  to  Richard  Cokrell  of  Beverle, 'gentilman,' and  his  heirs  of  all 
Westminster,  the  lands,  rents  and  services  which  lately  were  his  and  which  came  into  tho 
king's  hands  because  he  was  attainted  of  high  treason  in  the  Parliament 
held  on  4  November,  1  Edward  IV.  at  Westminster,  and  which  the  king 
lately  by  letters  patent  granted  for  life  to  John  Feryby,  now  deceased. 

By  p.s. 

Membrane  24. 

May  16.  Exemplification,  at  the  request  of  John  Howard  of  Howard,  knight,  of 
Westminster,  the  tenonr  of  a  bill  (English)  signed  with  the  king's  own  hand  and  sub- 
scribed with  the  names  of  the  lords  and  other  nobles  specified  in  it, 
notifying  that  on  13  August,  1475,  the  king  being  in  his  field  beside  a 
village  called  Seyncre  within  Vermondose  a  little  from  Peron,  there  being 
with  him  his  brothers  the  dukes  of  Clarence  and  Gloucester,  the  dukes  of 
Norfolk  and  Sufiblk,  the  bi.sliop  of  Lincoln  his  chancellor,  the  marquis 
of  Dorset,  the  earls  of  Northumberland,  Ryviers  and  Pembroke,  tlie  lords 
Grey  Ruthin,  Scrope,  Grey  Codnore,  Stanley,  Ilastynges,  Ferrers  and 
Howard,  the  earl  Douglas,  the  lord  Lisle,  the  master  of  the  rolls,  the  dean 
of  the  king's  chapel,  the  dean  of  Wells,  the  dean  of  Westminster,  Sir 
Thomas  Mongomery,  Sir  Thomas  Borough,  Sir  William  Parre,  Sir  Richard 
Tunstall,  Thomas  Selynger  and  John  Elryngton,  treasurer  of  the  king's 
wars,  upon  certain  ofl'ers  made  by  the  French  king  for  a  truce,  charged  tho 
eaid  lord  Howard,  the  master  of  the  rolls,  tho  dean  of  the  chapel  and  Thomas 
Selynger  to  go  to  the  French  king  or  such  as  he  should  depute  and  to  con- 
clude with  him  as  follows  ;  that  is  to  say  that  if  the  French  king  will  bind 
himself  to  pay  to  the  king  75,000  crowns  within  fifteen  days,  25,000 
crowns  at  Easter  next,  25,000  crowns  at  Michaelmas  following  and  so  fortli 
50,000  crowns  yearly  during  both  their  lives  and  will  marry  his  son  the 
Dauphin  at  his  ciiarge  to  the  first  or  second  of  the  king's  daughters, 
endowing  her  with  60,000/.  of  rent  yearly  after  the  estimation  of  France, 
they  sliall  bind  the  king  to  withdraw  his  army  upon  the  receipt  of  the  said 
75,000  crowns  into  England  and  shall  make  ii  private  amity  between  them 
botli  l)inding  them  to  mutual  assistance  if  either  be  wronged  or  disobeyed 
by  their  subjects  and  shall  make  a  truce  and  abstinence  of  war  with 
intercourse  of  merchandise  for  seven  years.  [.Fccdcra.^ 

The  following  have  like  letters: — 

The  king's  councillor  Master  John  Morton,  keeper  of  the  rolls  of 
Chancery. 

Master  William  Dudly,  dean  of  the  king's  chapel. 
Thomas  Selynger,  esquire. 
May  8.         Pardon  to  the  king's  servitor  Thomas  Fowler  late  of  Bukyngham,  co. 
Westminster.  Buckingham,  esquire,  late  esehcator  in  the  counties  of  Oxford  and  Berks, 
late  escheator  in  the  counties  of  Bedford  and  Buckingham,  one  of  the 


584 


CALENDAR  OF  PATENT  ROLLS. 


1476. 


May  1. 

Westminster. 


May  21. 

Westminster. 


June  14. 
Westminster. 


Membrane  24 — cont. 

ushers  of  the  king's  chamber,  of  all  offences  committed  by  him  and  all 
amercements,  issues,  fines,  debts,  accounts  and  arrears  due  from  him  to  the 
king.  By  K. 

Pardon  to  William  Laken,  esquire,  late  of  Altmere,  alias  late  of  Stone, 
CO.  Kent,  late  escheator  in  the  county  of  Salop  and  the  marches  of  Wales 
adjacent,  of  all  offences  committed  by  him  and  all  fines,  amercements, 
issues,  debts,  accounts  and  arrears  due  from  him  to  the  king  by  reason  of 
his  office.  By  p.s. 

Licence  for  John  Edy,  esquire,  Richard  Lawe,  John  Haile  and  Thomas 
Rokys  to  found  a  fraternity  or  gild  perpetual  of  themselves  and  other 
persons,  male  and  female.  The  brethren  and  sisters  shall  yearly  elect  two 
guardians  for  the  governance  of  the  fraternity  and  the  custody  of  its 
possessions,  with  power  to  remove  them  and  appoint  others  at  pleasure,  and 
they  shall  form  one  body  and  shall  have  a  common  seal.  The  guardians 
shall  have  power  of  impleading  and  being  impleaded,  by  the  names  of  the 
guardians  of  the  fraternity  of  St.  Mary  and  St.  Thomas  the  Martyr,  Stony- 
stratford,  and  they  and  the  brethren  and  sisters  shall  have  power  to  meet 
together  for  the  governance  of  the  gild  and  to  dress  themselves  in  one  suit  of 
gowns  or  hoods.  And  grant  that  they  may  acquire  in  mortmain  after  inquisi- 
tion lands,  rents  and  possessions  to  the  value  of  20  marks  yearly  within  the 
town  of  Stonystratford  or  elsewhere,  not  held  in  chief,  to  find  two  chaplains 
to  celebrate  divine  service  in  the  chapel  of  St.  Mary  Magdalen  and 
St.  Giles,  Stonystratford,  for  the  good  estate  of  the  king,  the  king's 
consort  Elizabeth,  queen  of  England,  the  king's  mother  Cecily,  duchess  of 
York,  and  the  said  brethren  and  sisters  and  for  their  souls  after  death  and 
the  souls  of  the  king's  father  Richard,  late  duke  of  York,  the  king's 
brother  Edmund,  late  earl  of  Rutland,  Jaquetta,  late  duchess  of  Bedford, 
and  Richard  Wodevile,  late  earl  Ryviers,  and  the  king's  progenitors,  and 
to  do  other  works  of  piety. 

By  p.s.  and  for  70  marks  paid  in  the  hanaper. 

Pardon  to  Nicholas  Henyscote  alias  Henscote  alias  Heynescote,  late  one 
of  the  customers  or  collectors  of  the  great  and  petty  custom,  the  subsidy  of 
wools,  hides  and  wool-fells  and  the  subsidy  of  the  3a'.  in  the  tun  and  the 
12c/.  in  the  pound  in  the  ports  of  Exeter  and  Dertmouth  and  ports  and 
places  adjacent,  of  all  offences  committed  by  him  and  all  fines,  amercements, 
issues,  debts,  accounts  and  arrears  due  from  him  to  the  king.  By  p.s. 


Membrane  23. 

May  21.  Commission  to  Richard  Harecourt,  knight,  Walter  Mauntell,  knight, 
Westminsttr.  Richard  Foweler,  Richard  Croft,  esquire,  Humphrey  Forster  the  elder, 
William  Danvers  and  Walter  Elmys  to  enquire  into  the  complaint  of 
Elizabeth  Baynton,  widow,  late  the  wife  of  Robert  Baynton  late  of 
Fallerston,  co.  Wilts,  knight,  that  whereas  John  Baynton,  knight,  was 
seised  of  the  manor  of  Mersshhaldyngton  and  800  acres  of  arable  land, 
50  acres  of  meadow,  100  acres  of  pasture  and  4  acres  of  wood  in  Merssh- 
haldyngton and  Newnam,  co.  Oxford,  in  his  demesne  as  of  fee  and  granted 
the  same  to  the  said  Robert  and  Elizabeth  and  the  heirs  of  the  body 
of  Robert,  and  these  were  accordingly  seised  of  the  same  and  received 
the  esplees  thereof  and  continued  their  estate  therein  until  4  May, 
11  Edward  IV.  and  afterwards  during  the  life  of  the  said  Robert,  who  died 
before  6  October,  12  Edward  IV.  and  the  said  Elizabeth  survived  him  and 
was  seised  of  the  premises  and  received  the  esplees  thereof  until  by  an  act 
in  the  Parliament  held  at  Westminster  on  the  said  6  October  and  continued 
by  divers  prorogations  to  23  January,  14  Edward  IV.  it  was  ordained 


16  EDWARD  IV.— Pakt  I. 


586 


1476. 


May  27. 

Westminster. 


May  9. 
Westminster. 


May  28. 
Westminster. 


Membrane  23 — cont. 

that  the  said  Eobert  with  others  should  be  attainted  of  high  treason  for 
having  levied  war  against  the  king  on  the  said  4  May  and  should  forfeit 
all  the  possessions  which  he  held  on  that  date,  but  that  the  wife  of  any 
person  so  attainted  should  freely  enjoy  her  inheritance  after  the  death 
of  her  husband  by  an  inquisition  taken  on  29  April,  15  Edward  IV. 
at  Henle  on  Thames,  co.  Oxford,  before  John  Harecourt  the  elder,  by 
virtue  of  letters  patent  directed  to  him  and  Giles  Daubeney,  John 
Whitehede,  William  Sondes  and  Thomas  Stanshawe  it  was  found  that  the 
said  Robert  was  seised  in  his  demesne  as  of  fee  on  the  said  4  May  of  the 
said  premises,  worth  15/.  15s.  3d.  yearly,  and  these  were  accordingly 
taken  into  the  king's  hands  and  the  said  Elizabeth  removed  from 
possession  and  the  king  was  seised  of  the  same  until  by  letters  patent 
dated  12  June,  15  Edward  IV.  he  granted  them  to  John  Cheyne,  one  of  the 
esquires  of  the  body,  and  the  heirs  male  of  his  body,  wherefore  she  prays 
that  justice  may  be  done.  By  K. 

Grant  in  frank  almoin  to  Thomas  Wylmot,  vicar  of  the  church  of 
Asshetteford,  co.  Kent,  and  his  successors,  in  full  satisfaction  of  the  sum  of 
750/.  4s.  which  he  lent  to  the  king  on  22  May,  as  appears  at  the  recf>ipt  of 
the  Exchequer,  of  the  manor  and  town  of  Dounton  Wayiat,  co.  Essex,  with 
the  advowson  of  the  church  of  Dounton  aforesaid,  the  manor  of  Preston  and 
Hoo,  CO.  Sussex,  lately  pertaining  to  the  priory  of  Okebourne,  and  a  yearly 
pension  of  100s.  which  the  prior  of  Lewes  is  bound  to  render  to  the  king 
from  an  apport  lately  due  to  the  abbey  of  Cluny,  to  pray  for  the  good  estate 
of  the  king  and  the  souls  of  his  progenitors  and  the  souls  of  Henry  and 
Henry  in  the  church  of  Asshetteford  and  for  the  souls  of  all  who  were 
killed  on  either  side  in  the  conflicts  at  Northampton,  St.  Albans,  Sherbourne, 
Barnet  and  Tewkesbury.  By  p.s 

General  pardon  to  Walter  Thomas  alias  Thomson  late  of  Canterbury, 
'  inhoklcr,'  alias  'yoman,'  for  a'l  forging,  sweating,  clipping  or  falsification 
of  money  or  other  ofTeuccs  committed  by  him  before  15  April.  By  p.s. 

Grant  of  the  hospital  of  St.  Leonard,  Stoke,  co.  Nottingham,  in  the  diocese 
of  York,  in  the  king's  gift  by  reason  of  his  custody  of  the  lands  of  Francis, 
lord  of  Lovell,  to  Robert  Sharpuls,  prebendary  of  Aluetham  in  the  cathedral 
church  of  St.  Asaph  in  Wales,  on  an  exchange  of  benefices  with  Edmund 
Chaterton,  master  of  the  said  hospital. 


Membrane  22. 

May  5.  Grant  to  the  king's  servant  William  Huse,  the  king's  attorney  general, 
Westminster,  of  the  custody  of  all  manors  and  lands  late  of  Edmund  Blount,  tenant  in 
chief,  or  Simon  Blount,  esquire,  his  son  and  heir,  tenant  in  chief,  during  the 
minority  of  Agnes  the  daugiiter  and  heiress  of  the  said  Simon  with  her 
marriage  without  disparagement,  to  hold  with  knights'  fees  and  advowsons, 
and  so  from  heir  to  heir.  By  p.s. 

May  5.  Licence  for  the  alienation  in  mortmain  by  Brian  Roclyif,  baron  of  the 
Westminster.  Exchequer,  Robert  Neweport,  esquire,  Peter  Bakster,  clerk,  and  Henry 
Johnson,  chaplain,  to  the  prior  and  convent  of  the  house  of  the  Visitation 
of  St.  Mary,  of  the  Cartimsian  order,  in  the  Isle  of  Axholme,  of  their 
manor  of  Outethorn  and  all  their  messuages,  lands,  rents,  services,  meadows, 
feedings,  pastures,  turbaries,  reversions,  commodities  and  commons  in 
Outethorn  and  Wythornse,  held  of  Anne,  duchess  of  Buckingham,  as  of 
her  manor  of  Brustwyk  in  Holdernesse  by  the  service  of  fealty  and  6d. 
rent  yearly  and  extended  at  60s.  yearly,  as  appears  by  an  inquisition  taken 
at  Rotheram  before  Roger  Coton,  esquire,  escheator  in  the  county  of  York, 


586 


CALENDAR  OF  PATENT  ROLLS. 


1476.  Membrane  22 — cont. 

to  hold  to  the  value  of  5  marks  yearly,  in  part  satisfaction  of  a  licence  by 
letters  patent  dated  3  December,  1  Edward  IV. 

May  6.        Grant  to  the  king's  councillors  Master  John  Ruscell,  keeper  of  the 
Westminster,  privy  seal,  Master  John  Gunthorpe,  the  king's  high  almoner,  and  Thomas 
Mountgomery,  one  of  the  knights  of  the  body,  and  their  assigns  of  the 
collation  to  the  next  vacant  canonry  and  prebend  in  the  king's  free  chapel 
of  St.  Stephen  within  the  palace  of  Westminster.  By  p.s. 

May  2.         General    pardon  to   Cecily  Grymston  late  of  Suthwerk,  co.  Surrey, 
Westminster,  'huswyfe,'  alias  Cecily  Mauncell,  alias  Cecily  Bunten  of  the  town  of 
Westminster,  co.  Middlesex,  '  sole  woman,'  of  all  offences  committed  by  her 
before  29  March.  By  p.s. 

May  8.        General  pardon  to  John  Harwell  of  Gravesend,  co.  Kent,  '  taillour.' 
Westminster.  By  p.s. 

Presentation  of  Richard  Bisshop  to  the  parish  church  of  Gysslam,  in  the 
diocese  of  Norwich,  void  by  the  resignation  of  Thomas  Wele. 

May  10.  Revocation  of  the  protection,  with  clause  voliimus,  for  one  year  by 
Westminster,  letters  patent  to  Bartholomew  Speneawe  alias  de  Spynewe,  merchant  of 
Bordeaux,  staying  on  the  king's  service  in  the  company  of  John  Youg, 
knight,  mayor  of  the  staple  of  Calais,  merchant,  and  the  society  of  the  staple 
treasurers  and  victuallers  of  the  said  town  and  the  marches  there,  on  the 
safe  custody  and  victualling  of  the  town  and  castle  of  Calais  and  the 
marches,  because  he  delays  in  the  city  and  suburbs  of  London,  as  Robert 
Colwyche  and  Hugh  Bryce,  sheriffs,  have  certified. 

May  6.  Grant  for  life  to  John  Wood,  esquire,  and  Thomas  Bowes,  *  gentilman,'  of 
Westminster,  the  office  of  the  custody  of  the  exchange  and  mint  and  the  custody  of  the 
coinages  of  gold  and  silver  within  the  Tower  of  London  and  elsewhere 
within  the  realm,  receiving  the  accustomed  wages  as  in  the  last  year  of 
Edward  111.  and  the  first  of  Richard  II.  from  the  issues  of  the  same  with 
all  other  profits;  in  lieu  of  a  like  grant  to  the  said  John  by  letters  patent 
dated  26  October,  8  Edward  IV.  {see  p.  113)  surrendered. 

May  10.       Grant  for  life  to  the  king's  servant  Edward  Hardgill,  esquire,  one  of  the 
Westminster,  ushers  of  the  king's  chamber,  of  an  annuity  of  9/.  2s.  6d,  from  the  fee  farm 
of  the  city  of  Norwich.  By  p.s. 

May  11.        Presentation  of  William  Spenser,  chaplain,  to  the  perpetual  chantry 
Westminster,  founded  by  king  Richard  in  the  church  of  St.  Antoninus,  London,  in  tlie 
diocese  of  London,  according  to  the  ordinance  and  will  of  Nicholas  Bole, 
sometime  citizen  and  skinner  of  London. 

May  15.  General  pardon  to  Nicholas  Sylverton  of  Westminster,  co.  Middlesex, 
Westminster.  *  stacioner.'  By  p.s. 

May  10.  Grant  for  life  to  Alice  Rippas  of  Westminster,  'recluse,'  of  6  marks 
Westminster,  yearly  from  the  issues  of  the  town  of  Notyngham.  By  p.s. 

May  7.         Grant  for  life  to  Thomas  Thorpe  of  the  office  of  forester  of  the  king's 
Westminster,  forest  called  '  Kyngeswodeheth  '  with  the  bailiwick  of  the  same  in  the  county 
of  Essex,  which  he  had  before  of  the  grant  of  the  king's  brother  the  duke 
of  Gloucester  and  which  has  now  come  into  the  king's  hands,  to  hold  with 
the  due  fees  and  other  profits.  By  p.s. 


Membrane  21. 

April  11.       Whereas  the  king  was  indebted  to  Prosper  Camilio  de  Medicis,  apostolic 
Sleaford.     collector  in  England,  in  the  sum  of  100  marks  for  certain  dispensations 
obtained  by  him,  and  in  repayment  thereof  on  30  May  last  by  letters  patent 
granted  licence  for  Nicholas  de  Brygnali,  Genoese  mei'cbant,  or  his  factors, 


16  EDWARD  IV.— Part  I. 


587 


1476. 


May  2. 

Westmiuster. 


May  4. 

Westminster. 


May  G. 

Westminster. 


May  17. 

Westminster. 


May  22. 

Westminster. 


Membrane  2\—cont. 

attorneys  or  servants  to  ship  merchandise  not  pertaining  to  the  staple  of 
Calais  in  the  port  of  Southampton  and  take  the  same  to  foreign  parts  quit 
of  customs  and  subsidies  to  the  said  sum,  and  the  said  Prosper  has  thus 
received  25  marks  but  cannot  obtain  payment  of  the  residue  and  has 
surrendered  the  said  letters ;  the  king  hereby  grants  licence  for  the  said 
Nicholas  to  ship  merchandise  as  above  in  the  ports  of  London,  Southampton 
and  Sandwich  quit  of  customs  and  subsidies  to  the  sum  of  75  marks. 

By  p.s. 

Grant  for  life  to  the  king's  servant  Oliver  Kyng,  master  of  arts  and 
licentiate  in  laws,  of  the  office  of  the  king's  first  .secretary  in  the  French 
tongue,  with  the  liberties  and  profits  pertaining  to  the  office,  and  50  marks 
yearly  for  the  exercise  of  his  office  from  the  custom.?  and  subsidies  in  the 
port  of  Southampton  ;  and  grant  that  he  shall  be  able  to  receive  bills  signed 
or  to  be  signed  with  the  king's  hand  and  make  out  warrants  under  the 
signet  and  otherwise  to  the  chancellor  of  England  and  the  keeper  of  the 
privy  seal  with  the  king's  letters  in  Latin  and  English.  By  p.s. 

Vacated  by  surrender  and  cancelled  so  far  as  concerns  the  said  50 
marks,  because  the  king  granted  the  same  to  him  from  the  customs  and 
subsidies  in  the  ports  of  Exeter  and  Dertmouth  by  other  letters  patent  on 
20  July,  1 7  Edward  IV. 

General  pardon  to  William  Ridgate  late  of  Eyntrec,  co.  Lancaster, 
'  yoman,'  alias  William  Ridegate  late  of  Aynetre,  '  husbondman,'  of  all 
offences  committed  by  him  before  21  April.  By  p.s. 

General  pardon  to  John  Myndrym  alias  Myndreni  alias  Mendrym  late 
of  Loudon, '  gentleman,'  of  all  offences  committed  by  him  before  1  February. 

By  K. 

Grant  to  Richard  Cokrell  of  Beverle,  '  gentilmaii,'  and  his  heirs,  in  lieu 
of  another  grant  to  him  by  letters  patent  dated  2  May  {see  p.  583), 
surrendered,  of  all  the  lands,  rents  and  services  in  Beverley  and  elsewhere 
in  the  county  of  York  which  lately  were  his  and  which  came  into  the 
king's  hands  by  reason  of  his  attaint  and  which  the  king  lately  by  letters 
patent  granted  for  life  to  John  Feryby,  now  deceased,  aud  all  issues  of  the 
same  from  the  time  of  the  death  of  the  said  John.  By  K. 

Pardon  to  the  king's  servitor  William  Wade,  esquire,  late  escheator  in 
the  counties  of  Bedford  and  Buckingham,  of  all  oftonccs  committed  by  him 
and  all  fines,  amercements,  issues,  debts,  accounts  aud  arrears  due  from 
liim  to  the  king  by  reason  of  his  office.  By  p.s. 

General  pardon  to  Thomas  Hill  of  Bristol,  *  brewer,'  of  all  offences 
committed  by  him  before  18  May.  By  p.s. 


Membrane  20. 

May  12.  Grant  to  the  abbess  and  convent  of  St.  Mary's,  Winchester,  in  furtherance 
Westmiuitor.  of  a  graut  to  them  by  letters  patent  dated  1  {sic)  October,  8  Edward  IV". 

{sec  p.  138)  which  are  not  as  valid  as  they  hoped,  that  they  shall  have  all 
sums  of  money  and  rents  due  to  the  king  from  themselves  or  their  tenants 
or  other  residents  in  the  towns  and  hamlets  of  Erchefount  and  Canyngus, 
CO.  Wilts,  for  any  rent  of  '  tytliyng  peny  '  or  other  rent  payable  at 
any  sheriff's  turn  within  the  hundred  of  Swannebergh  alias  Stodfold 
alias  Rughbergh,  and  pardon  to  them  of  all  sums  of  money  due  from 
them  to  the  king  as  parcel  of  the  farm  for  the  profit  of  the  county  of 
Wilts.  By  K. 


588 


CALENDAR  OF  PATENT  ROLLS. 


1476. 

May  9. 
Westminitsr. 


May  9. 
Westminster. 


June  15. 
Westminster, 


June  18. 
Westminster. 


June  15. 
Westminster. 


June  18. 
Westminster. 

June  9. 
Westminster. 


Membrane  20 — cont. 

Pardon  to  John,  abbot  of  the  monastery  of  St.  Peter's,  Westminster, 
ordinary  of  that  place,  for  the  escape  of  Thomas  Porter  late  of  Stretley, 
CO.  Berks,  '  gentilman,'  from  his  prison  before  11  February  last.      By  p.s. 

Vacated  because  otherwise  below. 

Pardon  to  the  said  abbot  for  the  escape  of  the  said  Thomas,  com- 
mitted to  his  custody  or  the  custody  of  anyone  having  power  from  him 
to  receive  clerks  convicted  or  attainted,  from  his  prison  before  11  February 
last.  By  p.s. 

Grant  for  life  to  John  Crowland,  one  of  the  king's  trumpeters,  of 
10  marks  yearly  from  Michaelmas,  6  Edward  IV.  viz.  5  marks  from  the 
fee  farm  of  the  hundred  of  Dudeston  and  5  marks  from  the  fee  farm  of  the 
manor  of  la  Berton  by  Gloucestre  and  the  king's  weir  in  the  manor  of 
Minsterworth  and  a  moiety  of  the  weir  of  Denne,  at  the  hands  of  the  abbot 
and  convent  of  St.  Peter's,  Gloucester,  or  the  sheriff  of  the  county  ;  in  lieu 
of  another  grant  to  him  by  letters  patent  dated  14  October,  7  Edward  IV. 
{see  p.  44)  surrendered  because  invalid.  By  p.s. 

Grant  to  Laurence  Bothe,  bishop  of  Durham,  of  the  custody  of  the 
temporalities  of  the  archbisliopric  of  York  and  all  issues  of  the  same  and  any 
portions  and  pensions  due  to  the  king  by  the  death  of  his  kinsman  George, 
late  archbishop,  to  hold  from  the  time  of  tlie  death  of  the  latter  so  long 
as  the  temporalities  remain  in  the  king's  hands,  with  knights'  fees  and 
advowsons,  and  grant  to  him  of  power  to  present  to  any  vacant  benefices 
which  should  belong  to  the  king  by  reason  of  the  voidance  and  to  appoint  to 
offices  in  the  archbishopric.    [Foedera.']  By  K. 

Exemption  for  life  of  Robert  Levelord,  'gentilman,' from  being  put  on 
assizes,  juries,  inquisitions,  certifications,  attaints  or  recognitions,  and  from 
being  made  sheriff,  escheator,  coroner,  assessor,  taxer  or  collector  of  tenths 
or  other  tallages  or  subsidies  or  aid  for  marrying  or  knighting  the  king's 
eldest  son,  constable,  crier,  arrayer  or  leader  of  men  at  arms  or  others  or 
any  other  bailiff,  officer  or  minister  and  from  taking  up  knighthood  against 
his  will.  By  p.s. 

Grant  for  four  years  to  the  king's  servant  David  Beaupe  and  John 
Marchauut  that  they  may  practise  the  faculty  and  science  of  philosophy  and 
the  turning  of  mercury  into  gold  and  silver.    \_Fcedera.'\  By  K. 

Grant  for  life  to  Ellen  Nevylle  late  the  wife  of  the  king's  servant 
Robert  Nevylle,  for  the  good  service  of  the  latter,  of  a  tenement  called 
Hyde  in  the  county  of  Hertford  with  all  lands,  woods,  pastures  and  other 
appurtenances  for  the  sustenance  of  herself  and  her  seven  children. 

By  p.s. 


Membrane  19. 

May  24.        Grant  for  life  to  the  king's  esquire  Thomas  Fenys  of  the  offices  of 
Westminster,  constable  of  the  king's  castle  of  Henyngham  and  parker  of  the  park  there 
from  Michaelmas  last,  from  which  time  he  has  occupied  the  said  offices, 
receiving   the  accustomed  fees  from  the   issues  of  the  lordship  of 
Henyngham.  By  p.s. 

Pardon  to  Robert  Menwynnek  late  of  Trevosburgh,  co.  Cornwall, 
'  gentylman,'  of  his  outlawry  in  the  said  county  for  not  appearing  before 
the  king  to  answer  for  certain  trespasses,  he  having  surrendered  to  the 
Marshalsea  prison,  as  Thomas  Byllyng,  chief  justice  of  the  King's  Bench, 
has  certified. 

May  23.        Grant  for  life  to  William  Neve  of  the  office  of  chief  glazier  of  the  king's 
Westminster,  works  with  wages  of  12c?.  daily  from  the  fee  farm  of  the  city  or  town  of 
Norwich  and  other  issues  of  the  same,  with  all  other  accustomed  profits  and 


16  EDWARD  IV.— Part  I. 


589 


14)76.  Membrane  19 — cont. 

a  robe  of  the  suit  of  the  servants  of  the  household  yearly  at  Christmas  at 
the  hands  of  the  keeper  of  the  great  wardrobe.  By  p.s. 

May  25.  General  pardon  to  Thomas  Philip  alias  Phelip,  citizen  and  grocer  of 
Westminster.  London,  alias  late  of  the  parish  of  Heron,  co.  Kent,  'yoman.'  By  p.s. 

Licence  for  the  appropriation  in  mortmain,  without  inquisition,  by  the 
master  and  fellows  of  the  Hall  of  St.  Katharine  the  Virgin  in  the  University 
of  Cambridge  of  the  parish  church  of  Cotou  alias  Cotes,  co.  Cambridge,  of 
which  they  are  patrons,  provided  that  the  sacred  offices  of  the  church  be 
administered  by  a  suitable  chaplain  and  a  certain  portion  to  be  fixed  by 
the  bishop,  the  ordinary  of  the  church,  be  distributed  yearly  among  the 
poor  parishioners.  By  K. 

May  28.        Grant  to  Master  Alexander  Lye,  king's  chaplain,  prebendary  of  Cobeham- 

Westminster.  bery,  in  the  diocese  of  Rochester,  and  chaplain  of  the  chapel  or  chantry  of 
St.  Mary,  Frekenliam,  in  the  diocese  of  Norwich,  of  a  canoury  and  prebend 
in  the  king's  free  chapel  of  St.  Stephen  within  the  palace  of  Westminster, 
on  an  exchange  of  benefices  with  the  king's  councillor  Master  John  Russell. 
This  grant  shall  not  be  hindered  by  any  letters  patent  of  the  king  concerning 
the  next  voidance  of  prebends  in  the  said  free  chapel.  By  p.s. 

March  4.       Ai)pointment,  during  pleasure,  of  the  king's  servant  John  Fortescu, 

Westmiustcr.  esquire,  as  one  of  the  esquires  of  the  body,  receiving  50  marks  yearly  from 
the  issues  of  the  county  of  Devon.  By  p.s. 

June  7.  Grant  for  life  to  John  Priour,  one  of  the  king's  trumpeters,  of  10  marks 
Westmiuster.  yearly  from  Miehaelma.s,  G  Edward  IV.  viz.  4 A  from  the  farm  of  the  city 
of  Winchester  and  53*.  Ad.  from  the  rent  and  manor  of  Lokerle,  co. 
Southampton,  at  the  hands  of  John  le  Botiller  and  his  heirs  or  the  sheriff 
of  the  county  ;  in  lieu  of  another  grant  to  him  by  letters  patent  dated 
14  October,  7  Edward  IV.  (.see  p.  44)  surrendered  because  invalid.    By  p.s. 

June  6.         Goner<al  pardon  to  John  Crosse  late  of  Fyneton,  co,  Devon,  '  yoman,' 
Westminster,  alias  *  husbondman,'  alias  late  of  Honyton,  co.  Devon,  '  toker,'  alias 
'  laborer,'  of  all  olFenccs  committed  by  him  before  4  June.  By  p.s. 

June  7.         Pardon  to  John  Brugge  late  of  Ludlowe,  co.  Salop,  clerk,  of  his  outlawry 
Westminster,  in  the  county  of  Stafford  for  not  aijpearing  before  Robert  Danby  and  his 
fellows,  late  justices  of  the  Bench,  to  satisfy  Julian  late  the  wife  of  John 
Boudeler,  administratrix  of  the  goods  of  John  Boudelcr,  who  died  intestate, 
of  40/.  which  she  recovered  against  him  and  4/.  damages,  he  having 
surrendered  to  the  Flete  prison  and  satisfied  her,  as  Thomas  Bryau,  chief 
justice  of  the  Bench,  has  certified. 
June  27.        Pardon  to  Richard  Vowell  of  Welles,  co.  Somerset,  'gentilmau,'  alias 
Westminster,  lale  of  London,  late  cschcator  in  the  counties  of  Somerset  and  Dorset,  of  all 
offences  committed  by  him  and  all  fines,  amercements,  issues,  debts,  accounts 
and  arrears  due  from  him  to  the  king  by  reason  of  his  office.  By  K. 

June  30.  Pardon  to  William  Coventre  of  Wandeborougli,  co.  Wilts,  '  husbondman,' 
Westminster,  of  his  outlawry  in  the  said  county  for  not  appearing  before  Robert  Danby 
and  his  fellows,  late  justices  of  the  Bench,  to  answer  the  king  touching  a 
trespass  committed  by  him  and  Roger  Taillour  of  Littelhenton,  co.  Wilts, 
'  yoman,'  Richard  Loveday  of  Littelhenton,  '  yoman,'  John  Smyth  of 
Littelhenton,  'yoman,'  John  Dowes  of  Littelhenton,  'yoman,'  William 
Piers  of  Wandeborougli,  *  husbondman,'  William  Horyng  of  Wandeborough, 
'husbondman,'  Philip  Warner  of  Aysshedonpark,  co.  Berks,  'yoman,' 
William  Gcgyll  of  Aysshubury,  co.  Berks,  '  husbondman,'  John  CoUes  of 
Ayssheburj,  'husbondman,'  Robert  Swuyne  of  Ordestou  in  the  parish  of 
Aysshebury,  'husbondman,'  Richard  Colles  of  Ordeslon,  'husbondman,' 
and  John  Monke  of  Ordeston,  '  husbondman,'  ho  having  surrendered  to  the 
Flete  prison,  as  Thomas  Bryan,  chief  justice  of  the  Bench,  has  certified. 


590 


CALENDAR  OF  PATENT  ROLLS. 


1476. 

June  3. 
Westminster. 

June  1. 
Westminster. 

May  27. 
Westminster. 


May  31, 

Westminster. 


May  3. 

Westminster, 


June  8- 
Westminster. 


June  9. 
Westminster. 


June  16. 
Westminster. 


June  20. 
Westminster. 

June  9. 

Westminster, 


April  15. 
Lincoln. 


Membrane  18. 

Grant  for  life  to  the  king's  servitor  Robert  Pemberton,  eaquire,  one  of 
the  ushers  of  tlie  king's  chamber,  of  9^.  2s.  6(7.  yearly  from  the  fee  farm  of 
the  town  of  Norhampton.  By  p.s. 

General  pardon  to  Robert  Kenet  alias  Kenette  late  of  Canterbury, 
'  bocher,'  for  all  offences  committed  by  him  before  27  May.  By  p.s. 

Grant  for  life  to  Thomas  Ravys,  one  of  the  king's  Serjeants  at  arms, 
of  12f7.  daily  from  2  July  last,  from  which  day  he  has  held  the  office, 
amounting  to  18^.  55.  yearly,  viz.  8/.  at  the  hands  of  the  burgesses  and 
tenants  of  the  town  of  Ivelchestre,  co.  Somerset,  from  the  fee  farm  of  the 
town  or  at  the  hands  of  the  sheriff  of  Somerset  and  Dorset  and  107.  5*. 
from  the  issues  of  the  county  of  Salop,  with  a  livery  of  the  suit  of  the 
king's  Serjeants  at  arms  or  40s.  for  the  same  yearly  at  Christmas  at  the 
great  wardrobe.  By  K. 

Mandate  in  pursuance  to  the  burgesses  and  tenants  of  the  town  of 
Ivelchestre  and  the  sheriff  of  Somerset  and  Dorset. 

The  like  to  the  sheriff  of  Salop. 

General  pardon  to  Walter  ap  Guillim  late  of  Urchenfeld,  co.  Hereford, 
'gentilman,'  alias  Walter  William  late  of  EUesfeld,  co.  Worcester,  of  all 
offences  committed  by  him  before  15  ApriL  By  p.s. 

Grant  to  the  king's  chaplain  Master  Benedict  Burgh  of  the  prebend 
which  William  Morland  lately  had  in  the  king's  free  chapel  of  St.  Stephen 
within  the  palace  of  Westminster,  void  by  his  resignation.  By  K. 

Mandate  in  pursuance  to  the  dean  and  chapter. 

Grant  to  Nicholas  Rav/don,  chaplain,  of  the  prebend  of  Walton  in  the 
king's  chapel  of  St.  Mary  Magdalen  within  the  castle  of  Bryggenorth,  void 
by  the  resignation  of  Master  Benedict  Burgh.  By  K. 

Mandate  in  pursuance  to  the  dean  and  chapter. 

Grant  to  Humphrey  Blount,  knight,  and  John  Dudley,  esquire,  of  the 
collation  to  the  next  vacant  canonry  and  prebend  in  the  king's  free  chapel 
or  collegiate  church  of  St.  Mary  Magdalen,  Bruggenorth,  in  lieu  of  a  like 
grant  to  them  by  letters  patent  dated  24  January  last,  surrendered.    By  K. 

Grant  to  Benedict  Bnrgh,  canon  of  the  cathedral  church  of  St.  Paul, 
London,  and  prebendary  of  Ealdlond  in  the  same,  of  a  canonry  and  prebend 
in  the  king's  free  chapel  of  St.  Stephen  within  the  palace  of  Westminster, 
on  an  exchange  of  benefices  with  William  Morland. 

Mandate  in  pursuance  to  the  dean  and  chapter  of  the  said  chapel. 

Licence  for  the  prior  and  convent  of  the  monastery  of  St.  James  by 
Norhampton,  of  the  order  of  St,  Augustine,  to  elect  an  abbot  in  the  place  of 
John  Grauutewell,  deceased. 

Grant  for  life  to  the  king's  servant  Robert  Allerton,  one  of  the  ushers  of 
the  king's  chamber,  of  the  office  of  keeper  of  the  king's  privy  wardrobe 
within  the  Tower  of  London,  receiving  the  accustomed  fees  as  in  the  times 
of  Edward  HI.  and  Richard  II.  from  the  issues  of  the  county  of  Essex,  Avith 
all  other  profits.  By  p.s. 

Grant  to  Gilbert  Debenham,  esquire,  and  the  heirs  of  his  body,  for  divers 
losses  sustained  for  the  king  as  well  in  his  presence  in  as  in  his  absence  from 
the  realm  and  for  2G0  marks  paid  by  him  to  the  king,  of  the  lordship  and 
manor  of  Tatyngston  with  appurtenances  in  Tatyngston,  Brantham,  Bcrgholt, 
Holbrooke,  Wolverston,  Freston  and  elsewhere  within  the  hundred  of 
Stamford,  co.  Suffolk,  Avith  all  members  and  the  advowsons  of  the  church  of 
Tatyngston  and  the  free  chapel  of  St.  Margaret,  Holbrooke,  knights'  fees, 
wards,  marriages,  reliefs,  escheats,  courts,  Icets,  warrens,  fisheries,  stews, 
liberties,  franchises,  bondmen  and  their  issue  and  other  commodities,  late  of 


IG  BDAVAilD  iV.— Part  I. 


591 


1476. 


July  15. 
Weetminster. 


July  6. 
Westmiuster. 


Membrane  18 — cont. 
Jolin  Veer,  knight,  late  earl  of  Oxford,  and  in  the  king's  hands  by  virtue  of 
an  act  of  forfeiture  in  Parliament  at  Westminster,  6  October,  12  Edward  IV, 
to  hold  by  the  services  of  as  many  knights'  fees  and  as  many  other 
rents  and  seryices  as  they  were  held  by  before  4  March,  1  Edward  IV. 

By  p.s. 

General  pardon  to  Dan  Robert  Benet,  monk  of  the  monastery  of 
St.  Peter,  Westminster,  of  all  offences  committed  by  him  before  7  May. 

By  p.s. 

Presentation  of  John  Aleyn,  king's  clerk,  to  a  moiety  of  the  parish  church 
of  Gedlyng,  void  by  the  resignation  of  Thomas  Dokylby.  The  letters  are 
directed  to  the  dean  and  chapter  of  the  cathedral  church  of  St.  Peter,  York, 
the  see  being  void. 


Membrane  17. 


May  3. 
Westmiuster. 


May  14. 
Westminster. 


May  17. 
Westminster. 


May  10. 
Westminster. 


May  18. 

Westmiuster. 


1475. 

Oct.  1 4. 

Westminster. 


Grant,  for  tw«nty  years,  to  John  Blounf,  lord  Mountjoyc,  and  James 
Blount,  es(iuirc,  of  the  lieutenancy  of  the  king's  castle  of  Uampncs  in  the 
parts  of  Picardy  with  a  number  of  soldiers  under  them  specified  in  certain 
indentures,  receiving  the  fees  specified  in  the  said  indentures  at  the  hands  of 
the  treasurer  of  Cahiis,  and  with  all  other  rights,  liberties  and  profits,  ^Tith 
power  to  appoint  officers  for  the  safekeeping  of  the  castle  and  to  grant 
safe-conducts  to  the  king's  adversaries  coming  to  the  castle  ;  in  lieu  of  a 
like  grant  to  the  said  John,  then  one  of  the  esquires  of  the  body,  by  letters 
patent  dated  31  March,  13  Edward  IV.  {French  Roll,  13  Edward  IV. 
m.  28]  surrendered.  By  p.s. 

P.evocation  of  the  protection  with  clause  vohimus,  for  one  year,  lately 
granted  by  letters  patent  to  Robert  Saluse  alias  Salewse  of  Hyngham,  co. 
Norfolk,  '  marchaunt,'  alias  '  chapman,'  alias  '  yoman,'  staying  on  the 
king's  .service  in  the  company  of  the  king's  kinsman  Henry,  carl  of 
Northumberland,  warden  of  the  cast  and  middle  marches  of  England 
towards  Scotland,  on  the  safe-custody,  defence  and  victualling  of  the  same, 
because  he  delays  within  the  liberty  of  the  city  of  Norwicli,  as  appears  by 
certificate  of  the  sheriffs  of  the  city. 

Pardon  to  Edmund  Molyncux,  esquire,  sheriff  of  Bedford  and  Buckingham, 
for  all  escapes  of  felons  and  all  offences  committed  by  him  before  14  May. 

By  p.s. 

General  pardon  to  John  Peuery  alias  Penury  alias  Penewry  alias  Pcnry 
of  Oldeclymmys,  co.  Cornwall,  '  husboudman,'  of  all  oflences  committed  by 
him  before  8  May.  By  p.s. 

Commission  to  Masters  John  Fox,  John  Coke  and  William  Goodyere, 
doctors  of  laws,  to  hear  and  determine  an  appeal  to  the  king's  audience  by 
John  Porster,  escpiire,  late  provost  of  the  king's  army  beyond  the  seas, 
against  a  judgement  of  Master  John  Aleyn,  doctor  of  laws,  deputy  or 
commissary  of  Ilicliard,  duke  of  Gloucester,  chief  constable  of  England, 
in  a  tivil  case  concerning  one  Robert  Richardson,  committed  by  the  said 
John  Aleyn  at  the  suit  of  Edmund  Hnute,  esquire,  to  one  Thomas  Busshe, 
deputy  of  the  said  John  Porster  in  the  parts  of  Picardy,  for  safe-custody 
under  a  penalty  of  1,000  marks. 

Grnnt  to  Thomas  Grey,  knight  of  the  body,  and  his  heirs  and  assigns  of 
the  manor  or  lordslu'i)  of  Tylbury  by  Clare,  co.  Essex,  and  the  advowson 
of  the  church  of  Tylbury  and  a  court  baron  within  the  manor  with  view  of 
frank-pledge  and  all  that  pertains  to  it,  and  all  issues  of  the  above  from 
14  April,  11  Edward  IV. 

Vacated  becatcse  in  the  fifteenth  year. 


592 


CALENDAE  OF  PATENT  ROLLS. 


1476. 

May  26. 

Westminster. 


June  17. 
Westminster. 


Membrane  17 — cont. 

Pardon  to  William  Say  late  of  Spaxton,  co.  Somerset,  esquire,  late 
escheator  in  the  counties  of  Somerset  and  Dorset,  of  all  offences  committed 
by  him  and  all  fines,  amercements,  issues,  debts,  accounts  and  arrears  due 
from  him  to  the  king  by  reason  of  his  oflBce.  By  p.s. 

Appointment  of  Thomas  Martyn  to  take  carriage  for  the  conduct  of  the 
bier  of  the  king's  father  Richard,  duke  of  York,  for  his  burial  and  carpenters, 
joiners,  painters  and  candlemakers  and  wax  and  thread.  [i^ceJera.] 


March  5. 
Westminster. 


May  23. 

Westminster. 

May  26. 
Westminster. 

May  26.  • 
Westminster. 

Nov.  29. 
Westminster. 

Oct.  29. 

Westminster. 

May  1. 
Westminster. 


May  1. 

Westminster. 


May  2. 

Westminster. 

May  10. 

Westminster. 


May  6, 

Westminster. 


Membrane  16. 

Appointment,  during  pleasure,  of  John  Batte  as  controller  of  the  great 
and  petty  custom,  the  subsidy  of  wools,  hides  and  wool-fells  and  the 
subsidy  of  the  3s.  in  the  tun  and  the  12d.  in  the  pound  in  tlie  port  of 
Sandwich  and  ports  and  places  adjacent,  receiving  the  accustomed  fees, 
provided  that  he  execute  the  office  in  person,  with  the  custody  of  one  part 
of  the  coket  seal.  By  bill  of  the  treasurer. 

The  like  to  the  following  in  the  ports  named  and  ports  and  places 
adjacent : — 

William  Crowchestre  in  the  port  of  Newcastle  on  Tyne. 

By  bill  of  the  treasurer. 

Vincent  Fynche  in  the  port  of  Chichester. 


John  Smyth  in  the  port  of  Yermouth. 
Thomas  Stoughton  in  the  port  of  Sandwich. 


By  bill  of  the  treasurer. 
By  bill  of  the  treasurer. 


By  bill  of  the  treasurer. 

The  like  of  Thomas  Fouler  as  controller  of  the  petty  custom  in  the  port 
of  London  and  ports  and  places  adjacent.  By  bill  of  the  treasurer. 

Grant  for  life  to  Master  John  Giles,  for  his  good  service  in  instructing 
the  king's  sons  Edward,  prince  of  Wales,  duke  of  Cornwall  and  earl  of 
Chester  and  Flyut,  and  Richard,  duke  of  York,  in  grammar,  of  201.  yearly 
from  Michaelmas  last  from  the  customs  and  subsidies  in  the  ports  of  Exeter 
and  Dertmouth.  By  p.s. 

Inspeximus  and  confirmation  of  letters  patent  under  the  great  seal  of 
Ireland  dated  at  Dublin,  15  July,  15  Edward  IV.  witnessed  by  William, 
bishop  of  Meath,  deputy  of  the  king's  brother  George,  duke  of  Clarence, 
lieutenant  of  Ireland,  granting  for  life  to  Christopher  Nugent,  esquire,  the 
manors  or  lordships  of  Belgard  and  Fowre,  co.  Meath,  not  exceeding  the 
value  of  12/.  yearly. 

General  pardon  to  Edward  Story  alias  Coke  late  of  London,  '  yoman,'  of 
all  offences  committed  by  him  before  1  March.  By  p.s. 

Grant  for  life  to  the  king's  servant  Roger  Hopton,  esquire,  one  of  the 
ushers  of  the  king's  chamber,  of  an  annuity  of  9/.  2*.  6d.  from  the  farm  of 
the  hundreds  of  Kyftesgate,  Holford  and  Greston  with  the  fairs  and  markets 
in  the  town  of  Wychecombe,  co.  Gloucester,  at  the  hands  of  the  abbot  and 
convent  of  Wynchecombe.  By  p.s. 

Inspeximus  and  confirmation  to  William  Gowelys,  son  and  heir  of  John 
Gowelys  and  kinsman  and  heir  of  the  undermentioned  Joan,  and  his  heirs 
of  letters  patent  dated  23  December,  16  Richard  II.  inspecting  and  con- 
firming to  Philip  Stone  and  the  said  Joan  his  wife,  daughter  and  heiress  of 
Robert  son  and  heir  of  William  son  of  Walter  Droup,  and  her  heirs  letters 
patent  under  the  seal  of  Ireland  dated  17  November,  22  Edward  III. 
confirming  to  the  said  William  son  of  Walter  and  his  heirs  and  assigns 
a  weir  called  '  Fishewere  '  in  the  river  Lee  by  Cork. 

For  5  marks  paid  in  the  hanaper. 


16  EDWARD  IV.— Part  I. 


593 


1476. 

May  14. 
Westminster. 


May  10. 

Westminster. 


Membranes  16 — cont. 

Exemplification,  at  the  request  of  Ralph  Assheton,  of  the  tenour  of 
the  enrolment  of  letters  patent  dated  16  September,  13  Edward  IV.  {see 
p.  410),  granting  to  him  the  manors  of  Landhilp  alias  Landilik  and 
Lydurant,  co.  Cornwall.  These  letters  have  been  lost  by  accident,  as  Robert 
Fox  lias  taken  oath  in  Chancery,  and  will  bo  suri-endered  if  found. 

Appointment,  during  pleasure,  of  John  Drewes  as  ganger  in  the  ports 
of  Exeter  and  Dartmouth  and  ports  and  places  adjacent,  receiving  the 
accustomed  fees.  By  bill  of  the  treasurer. 


Membrane  15. 

June  27.  Grant  to  the  king's  kinsman  Thomas,  cardinal  archbishop  of  Canterbury, 
Westmiustcr.  and  Thomas  Bourgcliier,  esquire,  of  the  custody  of  all  manors,  lands,  rents, 
services  and  other  possessions  late  of  John  Bourgchier  of  Berncrs,  knight, 
and  Marjory  his  wife,  tenants  in  chief,  and  tiie  custody -and  marriage  of 
John  son  and  heir  of  Huniphroy  Bourgchier,  knight,  their  son  and  heir,  to 
hold  from  the  death  of  the  said  Marjory  during  the  minority  of  the  said 
John  the  younger,  and  so  from  heir  to  lieir.  By  K. 

July  8.  Exemplification,  at  the  request  of  Brian  RoucHff,  of  the  tenours  of  the 
Westminster,  following : — 

1.  A  writ  of  Precipe  directed  to  the  sheriff  of  York,  ordering  him  to 

warn  Michael  de  la  Pole,  earl  of  Suffolk,  and  Katharine  his  wife  to 
hold  to  Richard  Burgh,  esquire,  the  convention  made  between  tliem 
concerning  the  manor  of  CoUhorpe  and  ten  messuages,  200  acres  of 
land,  40  acres  of  pasture,  300  acres  of  wood,  and  20.9.  Id.  rent  in 
Colthorpe  and  Bykerton  and  the  advowson  of  the  churcii  of 
Colthorpe,  or  to  appear  before  the  king's  justices  at  Westminster  at 
Easter.    Westminster,  20  February,  4  Henry  IV. 

2.  A  note  of  a  fine  levied  in  the  year  4  Henry  IV.  between  Richard 

Burgh,  esquire,  plaintiff,  and  the  said  earl  and  Katharine,  deforciants, 
viz.  that  the  latter  acknowledged  the  above  to  be  the  right  of  the 
said  Richard  as  those  which  he  had  of  their  gift  and  released  all 
claim  to  them  and  granted  to  him  the  said  rent  with  tlie  homage 
and  services  of  William  Gramary  and  Richard  Fairfax  and  tlieir 
heirs,  and  for  this   he  granted  to  them  1:00  marks.    York,  one 

month  of  Easter,  4  Henry  IV.    Pax  on  the  octavo  of  Michaelmas, 

6  Henry  IV. 

3.  The  foot  of  a  fine  made  at  Westminster  at  Michaelmas,  8  Edward  IV. 
before  Robert  Danby,  Walter  Moille,  John  Nedeham,  Richard 
Chokkc,  Thomas  Littelton,  and  Thomas  Yonge,  justices,  between 
the  said  Brian,  plaintiff,  and  John  Slyngesby  of  Scry  von,  esquire, 
and  Isabel  his  wife,  deforciants,  concerning  the  manor  of  Colthorpe, 
eight  messuages,  ten  gardens,  100  acres  of  land  and  20  acres  of 
meadow  in  Colthorpe,  co.  York,  and  six  messuages,  eight  gardens, 
fourteen  bovates  of  land,  40  acres  of  meadow,  4C0  acres  of  Avood 
and  20s.  of  rent  in  Bykerton,  in  the  county  of  the  city  of  York, 
viz.  that  the  said  John  and  Isabel  acknowledged  the  premises  to 
be  the  right  of  the  said  Brian  as  those  which  he  liad  of  their  gift  and 
released  all  claim  to  them  and  will  warrant  them  to  him  against 
Thomas,  abbot  of  St.  Mary's,  Kjrkestall,  and  his  successors,  and  for 
this  the  said  Brian  granted  to  them  300/. 

July  9.        Exemplification,  at  the  request  of  John  Colvile,  of  the  tenour  of  the 
Westminster,  enrolment  of  letters   patent  dated  10  January,  1  Edward   IV.  being  u 
general  pardon  lo  the  said  John,  citizen  and  apothecary  of  London,  alias 
of  Byerssh,  co.  Kent,  'geutilman,'  late  servant  of  John,  late  duke  of 


y  96  86. 


P  P 


594 


CALENDAR  OP  PATENT  ROLLS. 


147G.  Membrane  15 — cont. 

Norfolk,  and  tenant  of  the  manor  of  Ryherssh,  for  all  oiFences  committed  by 
him  before  4  November  then  last  .past.  These  letters  have  been  lost  by 
accident,  as  he  has  taken  oath  in  Chancery,  and  they  will  be  surrendered  if 
found. 


May  9. 
Westminster. 


'June  14. 
Westminster. 

May  22. 
Westminster. 


Membrane  14. 

Licence  for  William  Say,  esquire,  and  Genevieve  his  vpife,  daughter  and 
heiress  of  John  Hyll,  esquii-e,  tenant  in  chief  of  the  late  king,  and  kins- 
woman and  heiress  of  Cecily  Kyryell,  late  the  wife  of  Thomas  Kyi'yell, 
knight,  tenant  in  chief,  viz.  daughter  of  John  Hyll  her  son,  to  enter  freely 
into  all  lordships,  manors,  lands,  fee  farms,  annuities,  reversions,  farms, 
rents,  services,  hundreds,  fees,  views  of  frank-pledge,  courts,  leets,  sheriffs' 
turns,  liberties,  franchises,  fairs,  markets,  jurisdictions,  stews,  fisheries, 
warrens,  knights'  fees,  advowscns  and  other  possessions  within  the  realm 
of  which  the  said  John  or  Cecily  were  seised  and  which  should  descend 
to  the  said  Genevieve  on  their  deaths,  saving  to  the  king  fealty.       By  p.s. 

Letters  of  denization  for  George  Louekyn,  born  in  the  city  of  Paris,  and 
the  heirs  of  his  body.  By  p.s. 

Licence  for  Richard  Ayston  of  Colcestre,  kinsman  and  heir  of  John 
Skrene,  knight,  viz.  son  of  Isabel  eister  of  William  father  of  William  Skrene 
father  of  John  Skrene  the  elder  father  of  the  said  John,  to  enter  freely  into 
all  lordships,  manors,  lands,  fee  farms,  annuities,  reversions,  farms,  rents, 
services,  hundreds,  fees,  views  of  frank  pledge,  courts,  leets,  sheriff's'  turns, 
liberties,  franchises,  fairs,  markets,  jurisdictions,  knights'  fees,  advowsons 
and  other  possessions  in  the  counties  of  Essex,  Hertford,  Suffolk  and 
Cambridge  and  elsewhere  within  the  realm  which  should  descend  to  him 
on  the  death  of  the  said  John  or  any  ancestor  of  the  latter,  saving  to  the 
king  homage,  fealty  and  relief.  By  K. 


Membrane  13. 

June  19.  Licence  for  Richard  Knyghtley,  son  and  heir  of  Richard  Knyghtley, 
Westminster,  deceased,  to  enter  freely  into  all  lordships,  manors,  towns,  lands,  fee  farms, 
annuities,  reversions,  rents,  services,  hundreds,  offices,  views  of  frank- 
pledge, courts,  leets,  liberties,  franchises,  jurisdictions,  knights'  fees, 
advowsons  and  other  possessions  within  the  realm  of  which  his  father  was 
seised  and  which  should  descend  to  him,  saving  to  the  king  homage  and 
fealty.  By  K. 

June  23.       Signification  to  Th.  bishop  of  Lincoln  of  the  royal  assent  to  the  election 
Westminster,  of  John  Wykeley,  canon  of  the  monastery  of  St.  James  by  Norhampton, 
as  abbot  of  that  place. 

June  13.  Grant  to  the  king's  brother  George,  duke  of  Clarence,  and  the  heirs  male 
Westminster,  of  his  body,  of  the  manor,  lordship  and  town  of  Ludgarsale  alias  Ludgas- 
sale,  CO.  Wilts,  and  all  knights'  fees,  courts,  views  of  frank-pledge,  fairs, 
markets,  liberties,  franchises,  profits  and  commodities  pertaining  to  the 
same,  to  hold  by  the  knight  service  of  as  many  knights'  fees  and  as  many 
other  rents  and  services  as  they  were  held  by  before  4  March,  I  Edward 
IV.  and  all  issues  of  the  same  from  21  December,  13  Edward  IV.    By  p.s. 

May  26.  Mandate  to  all  justices,  sheriffs,  reeves,  ministers  and  others  to  permit  the 
Westminster,  men  and  tenants  of  the  manor  of  Wolueresford  alias  Worfeld,  which  is  of 
the  ancient  demesne  of  the  crown,  as  appears  by  a  certificate  sent  into 
Chancery  by  the  treasurer  and  chamberlains,  to  be  quit  of  payment  of  toll 
and  expenses  of  knights  coming  to  Parliament  and  to  have  all  their  ancient 
9ustom3  and  not  to  be  put  on  assizes,  juries  or  recognizances. 


16  EDWARD  IV.—Part  I. 


695 


1476.  Membrane  13 — cont. 

July  10.  Licence  for  the  i^rior  and  convent  of  the  monastery  of  St.  Albans  to 
Westminster,  elect  an  abbot  in  the  place  of  William  Albon,  deceased.  By  p.s. 

July  3.  Licence  for  the  alienation  in  mortmain  by  John  Sudbury,  clerk,  John 
Westminster.  Enderby,  chaplain,  and  William  Rughton,  chaplain,  of  five  messuages,  a 
dovecote,  four  cottages  and  218  acres  of  land  and  pasture  in  Louth,  Thedil- 
thorpe  and  Hoggesthorpe,  co.  Lincoln,  extended  at  5  marks  3*.  yearly,  not 
held  in  chief,  as  appears  by  an  inquisition  taken  before  John  Saynton,  late 
escheator  in  the  county,  to  the  alderman  and  brethren  and  sisters  of  the 
fraternity  or  gild  of  St,  Mary,  Louth,  to  the  value  of  6  marks  yearly, 
in  part  satisfaction  of  a  licence  by  letters  patent  dated  26  May, 
15  Edward  IV. 


Membrane  12, 

Aug.  8.  Licence  for  Edmund  Bedyngfeld,  esquire,  son  and  heir  of  Anne  Bedyng- 
Buckdon.  feld,  tenant  in  chief,  kinsman  and  heir  of  Margaret  Bedyngfeld,  widow, 
tenant  in  chief,  viz.  son  of  Thomas  Bedyngfeld,  esquire,  her  son,  and 
kinsman  and  heir  of  Thomas  Tndeiiham,  knight,  viz.  son  of  the  said  Thomas 
Bedyngfeld  son  of  the  said  IMargaret  his  .sister,  to  enter  freely  into  all  lord- 
ships, manoi  s,  honours,  lands,  fee.farms,  annuities,  reversions,  farms,  rents, 
service.'',  hundreds,  fees,  views  of  frank-i)ledge,  courts,  Icets,  sheriffs'  turn.'', 
liberties,  franchises,  fair.-,  markets,  jurisdictions,  stews,  fisheries,  warrens, 
kuiglits'  fees,  advowsons  and  other  possessions  within  the  realm  of  which 
the  said  Anne,  Margaret  or  Thomas  was  seised  and  which  should  descend  to 
him,  saving  to  the  king  homage  and  fealty.  By  p.s. 

Sept.  1.  Grant  for  life  to  Thomas  Grayston,  one  of  the  grooms  of  the  king's 
Lutterworth,  chamber,  and  his  assigns  of  the  borough  or  township  of  Kenford  by  Ken, 
CO.  Devon,  and  all  messuages,  lands,  rents,  reversions  and  services  by 
Kenfordo  late  of  Thomas  Courteney,  late  earl  of  Devon,  attainted  of  high 
treason  by  an  act  of  Parliament  at  Westminster,  4  November,  1  Edward  IV". 
and  in  the  king's  hands  by  reason  of  the  said  act,  not  exceeding  the  yearly 
value  of  3/.  lis.  Md.  to  hold  l)y  the  services  of  as  many  knights'  fees  and 
as  many  other  rents  and  services  as  they  were  held  by  before  4  March, 
1  Edward  IV. 

Aug.  21.  General  pardon  to  Henry  Warde  late  of  Fodrynghaye,  co.  Northampton, 
Liddington.   ' yoman,'  of  all  ofl'ences  committed  by  him  before  9  August,  By  p.s. 

Aug.  3.  Grant  to  John  Seman  of  London,  'mercer,'  who  has  newly  built  a  ship 
Buckden.  called  le  George  Cobhani  at  his  own  expense  and  whom  the  king  wishes  to 
help  for  the  increase  of  the  shipping  of  the  realm,  that  he  and  his  asbigns 
may  once  load  the  said  ship  at  its  first  voyage  from  the  port  of  London 
with  woollen  cloths  and  other  merchandise  not  of  the  staple  and  take  the 
same  to  the  parts  of  Gascony  and  Bordeaux  and  bring  back  other 
merchandise  from  foreign  parts  to  any  port  within  the  realm  quit  of 
customs  and  subsidies.  By  p.s. 

Oct.  6.         General  pardon  to  Walter  Churchcycrd  alias  Cherchar,  late  of  London, 
Buckden.      '  yoman,'  alias  late  of  Salisbury,  co.  Wilts,  of  all  ofl'ences  committed  by  him 
before  20  September.  By  p.s. 


Membrane  11. 

June  20.       Grant  for  life  to  the  king's  kinsman  James,  carl  of  Dess^mond,  of  the 
Westminster,  office  of  constable  of  the  king's  castle  of  Limbrike  in  Ireland,  receiving 
10/.  yearly  from  the  fee  farm  of  the  city  of  Limerick  with  all  other 
accustomed  profits.  By  p.s. 

p  p  2 


596 


CALENDAE  OF  PATENT  ROLLS. 


1476.  Membrane  11 — conl. 

June  15.  Licence  for  William  Stokker,  knight,  John  Stokker,  citizen  of  London, 
Westminster,  and  Henry  Stokkei-,  inhabitant  of  the  town  of  Wyboldston  within  the 
parish  of  Eton,  in  the  diocese  of  Lincoln,  to  found  a  perpetual  chantrj  of 
one  cliaplain  to  celebrate  divine  service  daily  in  a  certain  chapel  newly 
built  by  them  within  the  said  town,  for  the  good  estate  of  the  king  and  his 
consort  Elizabeth,  queen  of  England,  and  the  said  founders  and  for  their 
souls  after  death  and  the  souls  of  their  relatives  and  benefactors,  to  bo 
called  the  chaplain  of  the  chantry  of  St,  Mary  and  SS.  James  the  Apostle  and 
Christopher  the  Martyr  in  the  chapel  of  Wyboldston,  and  for  the  said  chaplain 
to  acquire  in  mortmain,  after  inquisition,  lands,  tenements  and  rents,  not  held 
in  chief,  to  the  value  of  10  marks  yearly. 

By  K.  and  for  20/.  paid  in  the  hanaper. 

July  3.         Pardon  to  .John  Hugyn,  late  escheator  in  the  counties  of  Somerset  and 
Westmiuster.  Dorset,  of  all  offences  committed  by  him  and  all  fines,  issues,  amercements, 
debts,  accounts  and  arrears  due  from  him  to  the  king  by  reason  of  his 
office.  By  p.s. 

July  4.        Grant  for  life  to  the  king's  servitor  John  Elryngton,  esquire,  treasurer 
Westmiuster.  of  the  household,  of  the  oflSces  of  parker  or  keeper  of  the  king's  park  of 
Hundesdon,  bailiff  of  the  king's  lordship  and  manor  of  Hundesdon  and 
keeper  of  the  same  manor,  co.  Hertford,  with  the  accustomed  fees  from  the 
issues  of  the  manor  or  lordship  and  all  other  profits,  as  Thomas  Petewyn  had. 

By  p.s. 

Vacated  by  surrender  and  cancelled  on  15  May,  20  Edward  IV. 

Jidy  7.        General  pardon  to  Thomas  Williamson  late  of  Northgrymesby,  co. 
I  Westminster.  Lincoln,  *  mercer,'  alias  '  husbondman,'  alias  late  of  Berton,  co.  Lincoln, 
of  all  offences  committed  by  him  before  3  July. 

July  8.        Grant  for  life  to  the  king's  servant  James  Moresby,  one  of  the  yeomen 
Westminster,  of  the  king's  chamber,  of  the  office  of  one  of  the  foresters  of  Inglewode, 
void  by  the  death  of  John  a  Coldell,  with  the  accustomed  fees.  By  p.s, 

July  14,        General  pardon  to  John  Goldryng  late  of  Dorkyng,  co.  Surrey,  'yoman,' 
Westminster,  alias  late  of  Forthingbrige,  co.  Southampton,  alias  late  of  Westbecheworth, 
CO.  Surrey,  alias  late  of  London,  alias  John  Masyngberde  late  of  Boston, 
CO.  Lincoln,  for  all  offences  committed  by  him  before  1 7  July  last.     By  p.s. 

July  18.        Mandate  to  all  bailiffs  and  others  to  permit  Nicholas  More,  chaplain,  born 
Westminster,  in  Scotland,  dwelling  at  Eedyng,  co.  Berks,  who  has  taken  an  oath  of 
fealty,  to  inhabit  the  realm  peaceably  and  enjoy  his  goods. 

1475. 

Oct,  30.        Grant  for  life  to  the  king's  councillor  Master  John  Coke,  doctor  of 
Westminster,  laws,  of  the  office  of  secondary  in  the  office  of  the  privy  seal,  with  wages 
and  livery  (see  p.  569).  By  p.s. 

Vacated  because  i?i  the  fifteenth  year. 

1476. 

Oct.  9.        Grant  to  the  king's  chaplain  Master  Peter  Courtenay  of  the  custody  or 
Westminster,  deanery  of  the  king's  free  collegiate  chapel  of  St.  Mary  and  SS.  George 
and  Edv/ard  within  the  castle  of  Windesore,  void  by  the  resignation  of 
Master  William  Dudley.  By  p.s. 

Mandate  to  R.  bishop  of  Salisbury  to  admit  him  to  the  cure  of  souls  of 
the  said  chapel. 

Mandate  to  David  Hopton,  canon  residentiary  of  the  chapel,  to  put  him 
into  corporal  possession. 
Oct.  14.        Protection,  with  clause  volumus,  for  one  year,  for  Richard  Heron, 
Westminster,   merchant  of  the  staple  of  Calais,  alias  late  of  London,  alias  late  of 
Westminster,  '  merchant,'  staying  on  the  king's  service  on  the  safe-custody 
and  defence  of  tlie  castle  of  Cragvergoos  in  Ireland,  By  p.s. 


16  EDWABD  IV.— Part  I. 


597 


1476.  Membrane  11 — cont. 

Oct.  13.       Appointment,  during  pleasure,  of  John  Say,  knight,  as  keeper  of  the 

Westminster,  great  wardrobe,  for  buying  cloths  and  other  things  for  the  wardrobe, 

receiving  the  accustomed  fees  and  robes.  By  p.s. 

Oct.  13.  Presentation  of  Edward  Asshton  to  the  parish  church  of  St.  Matthew, 
Westminster.  Ipswich,  void  by  the  resignation  of  the  king's  clerk  Robert  Bothe. 


Membrane  10. 

Aug.  26.  Licence  for  the  king's  brother  George,  duke  of  Clarence,  Tliomas,  bishop 
Buckdcu.  of  Lincoln,  the  chancellor,  Roger  Tocotes,  knight,  William  Catesby,  knight, 
Thomas  Kirkeby,  clerk,  Henry  Bedefeld,  clerk,  John  Pygot,  William 
Appleerd,  David  Ilerell,  John  Hunte  and  Robert  Trygge  to  found  a 
iraternity  or  gild  of  four  guardians  and  other  persons  wishing  to  be  of  the 
fraternity  within  the  church  of  St.  Mary,  Asshewell,  co.  Hertford,  to  be 
called  the  fraternity  or  gild  of  St.  John  the  Baptist  in  the  said  church.  The 
said  guardians  and  the  brethren  and  sisters  of  the  fraternity  shall  have 
perpetual  succession  and  shall  form  one  body,  with  power  of  acquiring 
lands  and  possessions  and  of  impleading  and  being  impleaded,  and  shall 
have  a  common  seal,  and  shall  yearly  elect  guardians  for  the  governance  of 
the  fraternity  and  remove  them  and  elect  others  when  they  think  fit  and 
shall  make  ordinances  for  the  governance  of  the  fraternity.  And  grant  to 
them  of  licence  to  acquire  in  mortmain,  after  inquisition,  lauds  and 
possessions  not  held  in  chief,  to  the  value  of  10/.  yearly  for  the  sustenance 
of  a  chaplain  to  celebrate  divine  service  daily  in  the  said  church  for  the 
good  estate  of  the  king  and  his  consort  Elizabeth,  queen  of  England,  and 
the  said  founders  and  the  brethren  and  sisters  of  the  fraternity  and  for 
their  souls  after  death  and  the  soul  of  Richard,  late  duke  of  York,  the 
kings's  father,  and  the  support  of  other  works  of  piety. 

By  K.  and  for  40/.  paid  in  the  hanaper. 

Sept.  17.        Grant  to  the  king's  councillors  INlasters  John  Russell,  keeper  of  tho 
Buclidun.     privy  seal,  John  Morton,  keeper  of  tlie  rolls  of  Chancery,  John  Gunthorjic, 
the  king's  high  almoner,  and  Richard  Martyn,  archdeacon  of  London,  of  the 
collation  to  the  next  vacant  canonry  and  prtbcnd  in  the  king's  free  chapel 
or  collegiate  church  of  St.  Stephen  within  tlie  palace  of  Westminster. 

By  K. 

Sept.  6.        Appointment  of  the  king's  kinsman  Thomas,  cardinal  archbif^hop  of 
Buckden.     Canterbury,  and  Jolui,  abbot  of  Westminister,  to  lake  the  fealty  of  the  king's 
clerk  Master  John  llussell,  whom  pope  Sixtus,  at  the  king's  recommendation, 
has  promoted  to  the  church  of  Rochester,  void  by  the  translation  of  John, 
late  bishop,  to  the  church  of  Worcastcr.    [jFo-t/cm.]  ^^y  K. 

Grant  to  the  said  Master  John  Russell  of  the  custody  of  the  temporalities 
of  the  bishopric  of  Rochester  with  all  issues  from  the  time  of  its  voidance. 
IFa-dcra.-]  By  K. 

Aug.  9.  Mandate  to  the  cscheator  in  the  counties  of  Bedford  and  Buckingham 
Buckden.  for  the  restitution  of  tho  temporalities  of  tho  mona.stery  of  St.  Albans, 
pertaining  directly  to  the  Roman  church,  to  William  W.allyngford,  lato 
prior,  who  1ms  been  elected  abbot  on  the  death  of  William  Albon,  in 
accordance  with  an  indult  of  the  apostolic  see,  and  whose  fealty  the  king 
has  taken. 

The  like  to  the  escheators  in  the  following  counties  : — 


Sussex.  York. 

Northampton.  Lincoln. 

Essex  and  Hertford.  Berks. 

Kent  and  Middlesex.  Snfiblk. 


The  like  to  Robert  Basset,  mayor  of  London,  escheator  iu  that  city. 
Writ  de  intendendo  in  pursuance  to  tho  tenants. 


598 


CALENDAR  OF  PATENT  ROLLS. 


1476.  Membrane  10 — cont. 

Sept.  25.       Mandate  to  the  escheator  in  the  county  o£  Worcester  for  the  restitution 
Buckdeu.     of  the  temporalities  of  the  bishopric  of  Worcester  to  J.  late  bisliop  of 
Rochester,  whom  pope  Sixtus  has  appointed  bishop  on  the  cession  of  J.  late 
bishop  and  who  has  renounced  all  words  prejudicial  to  the  king  in  the  papal 
bull  and  whose  fealty  the  king  has  taken.    \_Foedera.'\  By  K. 

The  like  to  the  escheator s  in  the  following  counties  :— 
Gloucester  and  the  marches  of  Wales  adjacent. 
Warwick. 
Middlesex. 

Writ  de  intendeiido  in  pursuance  to  the  tenants. 

Sept.  11.  Mandate  to  the  escheator  in  the  county  of  Hereford  and  the  marches  of 
Buckdun.  Wales  adjacent  for  the  restitution  of  the  temporalities  of  the  bishopric 
of  Llandaff  to  Master  John  Smyth,  professor  of  theology,  whom  pope 
Sixtus  has  appointed  bishop  on  the  cession  of  John  Hunden  and  who  has 
renounced  all  words  prejudicial  to  the  king  in  the  papal  bull  and  whose 
fealty  the  king  has  taken.  [^Fcedera.'] 

The  like  to  the  escheator  in  the  county  of  Salop  and  the  marches  of  Wales 
adjacent. 

Writ  de  intendendo  in  pursuance  to  the  tenants. 


Membrane  9. 


Aug.  3.  General  pardon  to  Roger  Wake,  esquire,  son  and  heir  of  Thomas  Wake, 
Buckden,  eaquire,  late  sheriff  of  Northampton  ;  and  grant  to  him  of  licence  to  enter 
freely  into  all  lordships,  manors,  towns,  lands,  fee  farms,  annuities,  rever- 
sions, rents,  services,  offices,  fees,  views  of  frank-pledge,  courts,  leets, 
liberties,  franchises,  jurisdictions,  knights'  fees,  advowsons  and  other 
possessions  within  the  realm  of  wliich  the  said  Thomas  or  any  of  his 
ancestors  was  seised  and  which  should  descend  to  him,  saving  to  the  king 
homage  and  fealty,  with  all  issues  from  the  deaths  of  the  said  Thomas 
or  Anne  the  mother  of  the  latter ;  and  pardon  to  him  of  all  issues,  fines, 
amercements,  debts,  accounts  and  arrears  due  from  him  or  the  said  Thomas 
to  the  king.  By  K. 

Pardon  to  John  Fortescu,  'gentilman,'  of  the  county  of  Devon,  alias 
esquire  of  the  body,  and  Thomas  Bond,  '  yoman,'  alias  of  Alanceston, 
CO.  Cornwall,  '  gaoler,'  for  the  escape  of  John  Clyfton  alias  Clyfdon  alias 
Clefton,  committed  to  the  king's  gaol  of  Alanceston  or  to  their  custody. 

By  K. 

Grant,  with  the  assent  of  the  king's  brother  George,  duke  of  Clarence, 
lieutenant  of  Ireland,  to  Thomas  Danvell,  knight,  lord  and  baron  of 
Rathwire,  and  the  heirs  male  of  liis  body  of  tlie  lordships  or  manors  of 
Salmon  Leap,  Chapelizod,  Ardinolgham,  Rathwire,  Belgard,  Tore  aud 
Castell  Ricard  with  their  members  aud  appurtenances  in  Ireland,  with 
knigiits'  fees,  advowsons,  wards,  marriages,  reliefs,  escheats,  courts,  leets, 
parks,  woods,  warrens,  waters,  fisheries,  stews,  liberties,  franchises, 
commodities  and  emoluments,  in  the  king's  hands  by  reason  of  an  act  of 
resumption  in  the  last  Parliament  in  Ireland,  to  hold  by  fealty  only,  and  the 
otiice  of  constable  and  the  custody  of  the  king's  castle  of  Wikenlowe 
in  Ireland  and  fees  of  50/.  yearly  from  5  August  last  from  the  customs  and 
subsidies  in  the  port  of  Dublin,  with  all  other  profits,  regards,  commodities, 
emoluments,  wreck  of  sea  and  other  things  due  to  the  office  and  custody, 
in  lieu  of  a  like  grant  to  him  by  letters  patent  dated  the  said  5  August, 
surrendered.  By  p.s. 

Sept.  7.  General  pardon  to  Robert  Batec  alias  Bate  late  of  Onlepe,  co.  Leicester, 
Buckden.     •  laborer.'  By  p.s. 


Aug.  16. 
Buckden. 


June  18. 
Westminster. 


16  EDWARD  IV.— Part  I. 


599 


1476.  Membrane  9 — cont.\ 

Dec.  3.  Grant  to  Elizabeth  late  the  wife  of  Thomas  Lescrope  of  Masham 
Westminstar.  knight,  of  the  custody  of  all  lordshijis,  manoi's,  lands,  rents,  services  and 

hereditaments  with  knights'  fees  and  advowsons  late  of  the  said  Thomas,  « 
tenant  in  chief,  during  the  minority  of  Thomas  his  son  and  heir.       By  p.s. 

Nov.  28.  Pardon  to  Robert  Hauntemont  late  of  London,  *  gentilman,' of  his  out- 
Westminster,  lawry  in  London  for  not  appearing  before  the  king  to  answer  him  and 
John  Pereles  of  London,  chaplain,  for  having  with  Edward  Criche  late  of 
Norwich,  '  chapman,'  and  ITenry  Wyche  late  of  London,  *  iremonger,'  at 
London,  falsely  procured  the  said  John  to  be  indicted  at  Gniuntpount  by 
Oxfoi-d,  CO.  Berks,  of  liaving  on  10  June,  10  Edward  IV.  forcibly  entered 
the  close  and  house  of  Edward  Cirche  at  Wyndesore,  co.  Berks,  and  carried 
off  20  marks  in  money  and  goods  to  the  value  of  20/.,  although  at  the  time 
of  the  taking  of  the  indictment  tho  said  John  was  dwelling  in  London  aVid 
not  in  the  county  of  Berks  ;  the  .said  Robert  having  surrendered  to  tho 
Marshalsea  prison,  as  Thomas  Billyng,  knight,  chief  justice  of  the  King's 
Bench,  has  certified. 

^Membrane  8. 

July  18.       Protection,  for  two  years,  for  John  SeboU  alias  Sebo,  merchant,  factor 
Westminster,  and  attorney  of  the  merchants  of  Spain,  and  his  servants  and  possessions. 

By  p.s. 

Aug.  1.        Presentation  of  John  Longe,  chaplain,  to  the  parish  church  of  St. 
Buckden.     George  within  the  city  of  Exeter,  void  by  the  resignation  of  Nicholas 
Hele. 

July  30.  Inspeximus  of  a  writing  (English)  of  the  king's  mother  Cecill,  late  wife 
Fotheringay.  to  Richard,  rightful  king  of  England  and  France  and  lord  of  Ireland,  dated  at 
Bcrkliampsted,  29  May,  IG  Edward  IV.  granting  for  her  life  to  her  servant 
John  Felde,  squire,  the  office  of  keeping  her  park  of  Standon,  taking  the 
accustomed  fees  with  all  other  profits  ;  and  ratification  of  his  estate  therein, 
and  grant  to  him  of  the  same  for  life.  By  p.s. 

Grant  for  life  to  John  Pylton,  esquire,  of  the  office  of  ranger  of  the  baili- 
wicks of  Clyff,  Brygstok  and  Rokyngham  and  all  parks  and  foreign  woods 
within  them  within  the  forest  of  Rokyngham,  co.  Northampton,  with  tho 
accustomed  fees. 

Aug.  2.  Whereas  John,  late  duke  of  Norfolk,  by  letters  patent  granted  for  life  to 
Buckden.  the  king's  esquire  Laurence  Fayreclough,  now  one  of  the  marshals  of  the 
king's  hall,  10  marks  yearly  from  the  revenues  of  the  manors  and  lordsliips 
of  Fenystanton  and  Ilylton,  co.  Huntingdon,  and  the  custody  of  the  park  of 
Weston  by  Baldok,  co.  Hertford,  witli  the  custody  of  tho  coneys  in  it, 
receiving  10  marks  yearly  from  the  revenues  of  the  manor  and  lordship  of 
Westoi),  and  the  manors  and  park  have  come  into  tho  king's  hands  by 
reason  of  tlie  minority  of  his  kinswoman  Anne,  daughter  and  heiress  of 
John,  late  duke,  the  king  hereby  grants  to  the  said  Laurence  the  said 
custody  and  20  marks  yearly  during  tho  said  minority  and  confirms  tlie  said 
letters  patent.  By  p.s. 

Aug.  10.  Grant  to  the  king's  servant  William  Huse,  the  king's  attorney  general, 
Buckden.  of  the  custody  of  all  manors  and  lands  late  of  Edmund  Blount,  tenant  in 
chief,  or  Simon  Blount,  esquire,  his  son  and  heir,  tenant  in  chief,  during 
the  minority  of  Agnes  the  daughter  and  heiress  of  the  said  Simon  with  her 
marriage  without  disparagement,  to  hold  with  knights'  foes  and  advowsons, 
and  so  from  heir  to  lieir  ;  in  lieu  of  a  like  grant  to  him  by  letters  jiatcnt 
dated  5  May  lust,  surrendered  because  invalid.  By  p.s. 

Aug.  9.  Grant  to  the  merchants  and  men  of  the  province  of  Guipuscoa,  in  satis- 
Buckdea.     faction  of  the  sum  of  5,000  crowns  (coronaruin)  duo  to  Ihcm  for  certain 


600 


CALENDAR  OF  PATENT  ROLLS. 


Membrane  8 — C07it. 

attempts  by  the  king's  subjects  against  the  men  of  the  maritime  provinces 
of  the  king  of  Castile  and  Leon  before  the  year  1472  and  the  sum  of  6,000 
crowns  likewise  due  from  that  year  to  28  May  1474,  that  they  may  retain 
a  moiety  of  all  customs  and  subsidies  duo  to  the  king  from  merchandise  of 
themselves  or  other  men  of  the  kingdoms  of  Castile  and  Leon  taken  into  or 
out  of  the  realm  by  the  ports  of  London,  Sandwich,  Southampton  and 
Bristol  until  they  shall  thus  be  satisfied  of  the  sums  of  5,000  and  6,000 
crowns,  less  1,200  crowns  already  paid  by  the  king,  each  crown  being 
valued  at  3s.  4c?.  By  p.s. 

Membrane  7. 

hispeximus  and  confirmation  to  the  abbot  and  convent  of  Holmcoltram 
of  letters  patent  dated  24  October,  16  Edward  IV.  being  an  exemplification 
of  letters  patent  dated  14  February,  2  Henry  VL  {see  m.  5). 

For  100s.  paid  in  the  hanaper. 

Pardon  to  James  Haryngtbn  of  I5rereley,  co.  York,  knight,  alias  late  of 
Hornby,  co.  Lancaster,  alias  late  of  Pountfret,  co.  York,  late  sheriff  of 
York,  of  all  offences  committed  by  him  and  all  debts,  accounts,  fines  and 
amercements  due  from  him  to  the  king  for  his  office.  By  p.s. 

Membrane  6. 

Oct.  24.  Licence  for  Robert  Clyfton,  knight,  and  Gervase  Clyfton,  esquire,  his 
Westminster,  son  or  their  heirs  to  found  a  perpetual  college  of  a  warden  and  two  chaplains 
to  celebrate  divine  service  daily  in  a  chapel  of  the  Holy  Trinity  within  the 
parish  church  of  St.  Mary,  Clyfton  by  Nottingham,  for  the  good  estate  of 
the  king  and  his  consort  Elizabeth,  queen  of  England,  and  the  said  founders 
and  for  their  souls  after  death  and  the  souls  of  William  Bothe,  late 
archbishop  of  York,  Dame  Alice  Clyfton,  late  the  wife  of  the  said  Robert, 
and  Seth  Worsley,  esquire,  and  the  ancestors  and  kinsmen  of  the  said 
Robert  and  Gervase  and  to  do  other  things  according  to  their  ordinance,  to 
be  called  the  warden  and  chaplains  of  the  college  of  the  Holy  Trinity  in  the 
said  church;  and  for  Thomas,  the  prior,  and  the  convent  of  the  Holy  Trinity, 
Lenton,  co.  Nottingham,  to  grant  in  mortmain  to  the  said  warden  and 
chaplains  a  yearly  rent  of  10/.  from  their  messuages  and  lands  in  Codgrave, 
Lenton  and  Radford  by  Lenton,  co.  Nottingham. 

By  p.s.  and  for  50/.  paid  in  the  hanaper. 

Oct.  16.  Grant  for  life  to  the  king's  clerk  and  councillor  Master  Richard  Martyn 
Westminster,  of  the  deanery  of  the  king's  college  of  Briggenorth.  By  K. 

Oct.  30.        Mandate  to  all  sheriffs,  mayors,  bailiffs,  ministers  and  others  not  to  distrain 
Westminster,  on  the  men  of  the  town  of  Hamiburg,  co.  York,  which  is  of  the  ancient 
demesne  of  the  crown,  as  appears  by  a  certificate  sent  into  Chancery  by  the 
treasurer  and  chamberlains  of  the  late  king,  for  payment  of  toll,  pavage, 
murage  or  passage. 

Nov.  4.        Licence,  for  half  a  mark  paid  in  the  hanaper,  for  Christopher  Cramton, 
Westminster,  clerk,  to  grant  two  messuages,  two  virgates  and  a  fourth  part  of  a  virgate 
of  land  and  3s.  of  rent  in  Skefyntou,  held  in  chief,  to  John  Freraan  of 
Skefynton,  '  yoman,'  and  Matilda  his  wife  and  their  heirs. 

Nov.  5.  Pardon  to  Emma  late  the  wife  of  Stephen  Middelton  of  her  waiver  in 
Westminster,  the  county  of  York  for  not  appearing  before  of  king  to  satisfy  him  of  her 
ransom  for  not  prosecuting  her  appeal  against  John  Wythes,  late  of  Rypon, 
CO.  York,  'yoman,'  and  others  for  the  death  of  the  said  Stephen,  she  having 
surrendered  to  the  Marshalsea  prison,  as  Thomas  Billyng,  knight,  chief 
justice  of  the  King's  Bench,  has  certified. 


1476. 


Oct.  28. 
Westminster. 


Nov.  28. 

Westminster. 


16  EDWARD  IV.— Part  I. 


601 


1476.  Membrane  6 — cont. 

Nov.  6.        Grant,  for  24  years,  to  William  Stokke,  knight,  of  the  custody  of  the 
Westminster,  assarts,  wastes,  purprestures  and   minute  particles  within  the  forest  of 
Rokyngham  in  the  counties  of  Northampton,  Huntingdon  and  Buckingham, 
'  rendering  to  the  king  52/.  yearly.  By  K. 

Oct.  12.        Licence  for  the  appropriation  in  mortmain,  after  inquisition,  by  John 
Westminster.  Esteney,  the  abbot,  and  the  convent  of  St.  Peter's,  Westminster,  of  the 
church  of  St.  Mary,  Hendon,  with  the  chapel  of  St.  Mary,  Hampstede, 
annexed,  which  is  of  their  patronage,  provided  that  a  vicarage  be  sufficiently 
endowed.  By  p.s.  and  for  24/.  17*.  8c?.  paid  in  the  hanaper. 

Nov.  7.  Grant  to  the  king's  servant  William  Huse,  the  king's  attorney  general, 
Westminster,  of  the  custody  of  all  manors  and  lands  late  of  Edmund  Blount,  tenant  in 
chief,  or  Simon  Blount,  esquire,  his  son  and  heir,  tenant  in  chief,  during  tlie 
minority  of  Margaret  the  daughter  and  heiress  of  the  said  Simon  with  her 
marriage  without  disparagement,  to  hold  with  knights'  fees  and  advowsons, 
and  so  from  heir  to  heir.  By  K. 

Nov.  8.        Grant,  during  pleasure,  to  the  king's  clerk   and  councillor  Master 
Westminster.  Richard  Marten  of  40/.  yearly  from  the  issues  of  the  forest  of  Dene;  in 
recompence  of  40/.  yearly  which  the  king  by  letters  of  privy  seal  in  (ho 
tenth  year  ordered  the  treasurer  and  chamberlains  of  the  Exchequer  to  pay 
him,  of  which  he  cannot  obtain  prompt  payment.  By  p.s. 

Nov.  10.  General  pardon  to  Thomas  Gilnot  of  Feveresham,  co.  Kent,  '  glover,'  of 
Westminster,  all  offences  committed  by  him  before  8  November.  By  p.s. 


Membrane  5. 

Oct.  24.  Exemplification,  at  tlio  request  of  William  Patryk,  clerk,  of  the  tenour 
Westminster,  of  the  enrolment  of  letters  patent   dated  14  February,  2  Henry  VI. 

inspecting  and  confirming  to  the  abbot  and  convent  of  llolmcoUram  the 
following  : — 

1.  Letters  patent  dated  21  May,  5  Richard  II,  inspecting  and  confirming 

a  charter  dated  at  Roche  Andelys,  11  November,  10  Richard  I. 
renewing  a  charter  dated  at  Canterbury,  3  December,  1  Richard  I. 

2.  A  charter  dated  at  Westminster,  25  July,  20  Richard  II.  {^Charter 

Roll,  20  liichard  11.  No.  G.] 
These  letters  have  been  accidentally  lost,  as  the  said  William  has  taken  oath 
in  Chancery,  and  they  will  be  surrendered  if  found. 


Membrane  4. 

Nov.  7.        Exemplification,  at  the  request  of  John  Rouclyff,  esquire,  and  Margaret 
Westminster,  his  wife  and  John  Sotehill,  esquire,  and  Elizabeth  his  wife,  daughters  and 
heiresses  of  William  Plumpton,  esquire,  late  son  and  heir  apparent  of 
William  Plompton  of  Plompton,  knight,  of  the  transcripts  of  the  feet  of  the 
following  fines : — 

1.  A  fine  made  at  Westminster,  Hilary,  19  Edward  II.  before  William 
de  Bereford  and  his  fellows,  between  Robert  de  Neuby,  parson  of 
the  church  of  INIerston,  plaintiff,  and  William  de  Plumpton  and 
Alice  his  wife,  deforciants,  of  the  manor  of  Brakanthwavt 
and  two  messuages,  a  mill,  22  tofts,  27  bovates  and  146  acres  of 
LuiJj  17  acres  of  meadow  and  20  acres  of  wood  in  Plumpton, 
Folifayt,  Braham,  Kerby  and  Little  Ribstayn,  by  which  the  said 
William  and  Alice  acknowledged  the  premises  to  be  the  right  of 
the  said  Robert  as  those  which  he  had  of  their  gift  and  for  this 
ho  granted  the  same  to  them  and  the  heirs  of  their  bodies,  with 


602 


CALENDAR  OF  PATENT  ROLLS. 


14.76.  Membrane  4 — cont. 

successive  remainders  to  Thomas  son  of  Peter  de  Middelton  and 
Marmaduke  de  Plumpton  and  the  heirs  of  their  bodies  and  Adam 
sou  of  Peter  de  Middelton  and  his  heirs.  York. 
2.  A  fine  made  at  Westminster,  Trinity,  40  Edward  III.  before  Robert 
de  Thorpe  and  his  fellows  between  Godfrey  son  of  Godfrey 
Foljambe  and  Margaret  his  wife,  plaintiffs,  and  Robert  Daltport, 
clerk,  deforciant,  of  the  manor  of  Kynalton,  by  which  the  said 
Godfrey  and  Margaret  acknowledged  the  manor  to  be  the  right  of 
the  said  Robert  as  that  which  he  had  of  their  gift  and  for  this  he 
granted  it  to  them  and  the  heirs  of  their  bodies,  with  remainder  to 
the  right  heirs  of  Godfrey.  Nottingham. 

Nov.  11.        Pardon  to  Henry  Ferrers  of  Pecham,  co.  Kent,  knight,  of  all  alienations 
Westminster,  and  perquisitions  by  him  of  lands  held  in  chief  without  licence  and  all 
entries  into  his  inheritance  without  due  suit  or  livery.  By  K. 

Nov.  11.  Grant  to  John  Pylkyngton,  one  of  the  knights  of  the  body,  and  his 
Westminster,  heirs  and  assigns,  in  furtherance  of  a  grant  to  him  by  letters  patent  dated 
21  January,  13  Edward  IV.  {see  p.  419)  of  the  reversion  of  the  advowson 
of  the  church  of  Thorneton  in  Craven,  co.  York,  to  hold  by  the  service 
of  a  red  rose  yearly ;  licence  for  him  to  grant  the  advowson  to  Thomas 
Swynton,  the  abbot,  and  the  convent  of  St.  Mary's,  Fountaunce,  in  frank 
almoin  ;  and  licence  for  them  to  appropriate  the  church  in  mortmain 
without  inquisition,  provided  that  the  vicarage  of  the  church  be  sufficiently 
endowed  of  one  monk  of  the  monastery  and^a  competent  sum  of  money,  to 
be  appointed  by  the  diocesan,  be  distributed  yearly  among  the  poor 
parishioners. 

By  K.  and  for  31/.  11*.  paid  in  the  hanapei*. 

Nov.  13.  Grant  for  life  to  the  king's  servant  John  Beste  of  a  messuage  or  mansion 
Westminster,  in  the  parish  of  St.  Giles  without  Crepulgate,  London,  not  exceeding  the 
value  of  2  marks  yearly,  of  which  John  Talbot,  late  serjeant  at  arms,  was 
seised  in  his  demesne  as  of  fee,  holding  it  of  the  late  king  in  free  burgage, 
and  which  came  to  the  late  king  because  he  died  without  heir,  to  hold  by 
the  services  of  as  many  knights'  fees  and  as  many  other  rents  and  services 
as  it  was  held  by  before  4  March,  1  Edward  IV.  By  p.s. 

Nov.  14.        Pardon  to  Thomas  Sadeler  of  Malmesbui-y,  co.  Wilts,  *  yoman,'  of  his 
Westminster,  outlawry  in  the  county  of  Middlesex  for  not  appearing  before  the  king  to 
answer  for  divers  trespasses,  he  having  surrendered  to  the  Marshalsea 
prison,  as  Thomas  Billyng,  knight,  chief  justice  of  the  King's  Bench,  has 
certified. 

Nov.  18.       Grant  for  life  to  Henry  Langshawe  and  Robert  Coorte  of  the  office  of 
Westminster,  parker  of  the  king's  park  of  Blakedon,  co.  Dorset,  with  coneys  and  other 
profits,  receiving  the  accustomed  fees  from  the  issues  of  the  king's  manor 
of  Crambourn  ;  in  lieu  of  a  like  grant  to  the  said  Henry  by  letters  patent 
dated  6  November,  1  Edward  IV.  surrendered.  By  p.s. 

Nov.  12.       Appointment,  until  20  May,  of  John  Elder,  yeoman  purveyor  of  wheat 
Westminster,  of  the  household,  to  take  wheat  and  firewood  for  the  oven  and  multure  for 
the  expenses  of  the  household  and  carriage  for  the  same. 


Membrane  3. 

Nov.  26.       Grant  to  John  Piers  of  Cantele  in  Berneo  of  the  province  of  Biscay  in 
Westminster.  Spain,  in  satisfiictiou  of  certain  attempts  by  the  king's  subjects  of  Fowy  in 
the  port  of  Salcombe,  co.  Devon,  against  him  on  certain  merchandise  to 
the  prejudice  of  the  peace  between  the  king  and  the  king  of  Castile  and 
Leon,  that  he  or  liis  factors  or  attorneys  may  retain  a  moiely  of  the  customs 


16  EDWARD  IV.— Paht  I. 


603 


1470,  Membrane  3 — conL 

and  subsidies  due  to  the  king  from  all  merchandise  of  subjects  of  tho  said 
king  of  Castile  and  Leon  taken  into  oi*  out  of  the  realm  by  the  ports  of 
Dertemouth,  Excestre,  Plymouth  and  Brygewater  until  he  shall  thus  be 
satisfied  of  the  sum  of  1,000  crowns,  each  crown  being  valued  at  3s,  4J. 

By  p.9. 

Nov.  25.  General  pardon  to  John  Armorer  late  of  Geddyng,  co.  Suffolk,  '  yoman.' 
Westminster.  By  K. 

Nov.  26.       Pardon  to  Thomas  Lelly  of  Beauripper,  co.  Cornwall,  '  husbondman,'  of 
Westminster,  his  outlawries  in  the  county  of  Cornwall  for  not  appearing  before  the  king 
at  Westminster  to  answer  for  certain  trespasses,  he  having  surrendered  to 
the  Marshalsea  prison,  as  Thomas  Byllyug,  chief  justice  of  the  King's  Bench, 
has  certified. 

Nov.  22.       General  pardon  to  John  Walle  alias  John  Walle  of  Criditon,  co.  Devon, 
Westminster.  <•  yoman,'  alias  '  sherman,'  alias  John  Wallcn   of  Kyrton,  co.  Devon, 
alias  late   of  Druestayton,  co.  Devon,  of  all  offences  committed  by  him 
before  18  November.  By  p.s. 

Nov.  16.  Exemption  for  life  of  Roger  Leukenore,  knight,  from  being  put  on 
Westminster,  assizes,  juries,  inquisitions,  attaints  or  recognitions  and  from  being  made 
justice  of  the  peace,  sewers,  oyer  and  terminer,  gaol  delivery  or  the  forest, 
admiral,  mayor,  sheriff,  bailiff,  reeve,  escheator,  coroner,  steward,  receiver, 
customer,  controller,  taxer,  ulnager,  searcher,  ganger,  approver,  collector  of 
subsidies,  tenths,  fifteenths,  farms,  rents,  scutages  or  aids,  constable,  warden, 
marshal,  usher,  leader,  arrayer  or  trier  of  men  at  arms,  hobelers  or  archers, 
or  other  officer  or  minister  of  the  king.  By  p.s. 

Licence,  for  100*.  paid  in  the  hanaper,  for  William  Leversegge  to  grant 
a  moiety  of  his  manor  of  Fronie  called  '  Valeys  '  and  the  hundred  of  the  same 
manor  co.  Somerset,  and  his  manor  of  Estlacche,  co.  Gloucester,  held  in  chief, 
to  John  Hampton,  John  Mervyn,  Kichard  Erley,  Walter  Mervyn  and  Robert 
South,  and  for  these  to  re-grant  the  s.nme  to  the  said  William  and  Edith 
his  wife  and  the  heirs  of  their  bodies,  with  remainder  to  his  right  heirs. 

Grant  to  John  Say,  knight,  and  John  Sturgeon,  esquire,  of  the  office  of 
steward  of  the  lordship  of  Walkerne,  co.  Hertford,  and  the  offices  of  the 
custody  of  the  park  and  lordship  of  Halyngbery  Morley,  co.  Essex,  and 
steward,  surveyor  and  receiver  of  the  same  manor  during  the  minority  of 
Henry,  lord  Morley,  son  and  heir  of  Eleanor,  late  lady  Morley,  with  the 
accustomed  fees  from  the  issues  of  the  lordships,  and  all  herbage  and 
pannage.  By  K. 

Nov.  2.3.        Grant  to  the  same  of  the  office  of  the  custody  of  the  park  of  Walkerne, 
Westminster,  co.  Hertford,  from  the  time  of  the  death  of  tho  said  Eleanor  during  the 
minority  of  the  said  Henry,  with  the  accustomed  fees  from  the  issues  of 
the  lordship  of  Walkerne  and  all  other  profits.  By  K. 

Dec.  3.  Appointment  for  life  of  the  king's  servant  Thomas  Wellysbourne,  one  of 
Westminster,  the  yeomen  of  tho  king's  chamber,  as  keeper  of  the  king's  woods  of 
VVodesloke  called 'les  Outwodes '  and  all  other  woods  of  the  king  within 
the  lordship  and  manor  of  Wodestoke  with  its  members,  co.  Oxford, 
without  the  i)ark  of  Wodestoke  and  Henxgrove,  receiving  id.  daily  from 
the  issues  of  the  lordship  and  manor.  By  p.s. 


Nov.  27. 

Westminster, 


Nov.  23. 

Westminster. 


Membrane  2. 

Nov.  12.        Exemplification,  at  the  request  of  John  Forster  alias  Foster  of  Bristol, 
Westminster.  <  marchaunt,'  of  the  tenour  of   tho  enrolment  of  letters  patent  dated 
6  ScptcMiiber,  8  Edward  IV.  granting  to  him  a  gcnenil  pardon  for  all 
offeucea  committed  by  him  before  15  April  then  last  i)ast.    These  letters 


604 


CALENDAR  OF  PATENT  ROLLS. 


1476.  Membrane  2 — cont. 

have  been  lost  by  accident,  as  he  has  taken  oath  in  Chancery,  and  they  will 
ba  surrendered  if  found. 

Nov.  21.        Letters  of  denization  for  Edward  Deux,  born  in  the  duchy  of  Gueldres. 
Westminster.  By  K.  and  for  205.  paid  in  the  hanaper. 


Membrane  1. 


Nov.  15. 

Westminster. 


Nov.  15. 

Westminster. 

Nov.  20. 

Westminster. 


Nov.  16. 
Westminster. 


Nov,  9. 
Westminster. 


Nov.  24. 

Westminster. 

Nov.  21. 
Westminster. 


Nov.  23. 

Westminster. 


Grant  to  the  king's  clerk  Thomas  Danett,'the  king's  almoner,  in  augmen- 
tation of  the  king's  alms,  of  all  goods  of  felons  of  themselves  and  deodands 
belonging  to  the  king  within  the  realm,  with  power  to  distribute  the  same 
as  the  king's  alms  without  rendering  any  account ;  and  pardon  to  him  of 
all  debts  and  accounts  due  from  him  to  the  king  for  this  before  this  time. 

By  p.s. 

General  pardon  to  Oliver  Mannyngham  alias  Manyngham  of  London, 
knight,  of  all  offences  committed  by  him  before  10  November.         By  p.s. 

Pardon  to  Robert  Greswold  late  of  Kenelworth,  co.  Warwick,  '  yoman,' 
of  his  outlawry  in  the  county  of  Middlesex  for  not  appearing  before  the 
king  to  satisfy  him  of  his  ransom  for  not  holding  Richard  Peresson  late  of 
Brayles,  co.  Warwick,  'yoman,'  William  Moreton  late  of  Alspath,  co. 
Warwick,  '  yoman,'  William  Fulford  late  of  Solyhull,  co.  Warwick, 
'  husbondman,'  Oliver  Yerdeley  of  Kenel worth,  '  yoman,'  and  John 
Yerdeley  late  of  Pakyngton  Priour,  co.  Warwick,  '  yoman,'  before  the 
king  at  a  certain  day  to  answer  him  and  John  Parker  late  of  ColshuU,  co. 
Warwick,  *  yoman,'  on  a  plea  of  trespass  ;  the  said  Robert  having  surrendered 
to  the  Marshalsea  prison,  as  Thomas  Billyug,  chief  justice  of  the  King's 
Bench,  has  certified. 

Pardon  to  Ranulph  Breretou,  knight,  of  Malpas,  co.  Chester,  late  sheriff 
of  Stafford,  of  all  offences  committed  by  him  and  all  fines,  amercements, 
issues,  debts,  accounts  and  arrears  due  from  him  to  the  king  by  reason  of 
his  office.  By  p.s. 

Licence  for  John  Wobourn  and  Richard  Huet,  chaplains,  or  their 
executors  or  assigns  to  found  an  almshouse  of  one  warden  (custode),  two 
guardians  {gardianis)  and  twelve  poor  persons  of  either  sex  at  Yevyll,  co. 
Somerset,  in  a  chapel  newly  built  there  in  honour  of  SS.  George  and 
Christopher,  to  make  their  orisons  daily  in  the  said  chapel  or  the  parish 
church  of  Yevyll  for  the  good  estate  of  the  king  and  his  consort  Elizabeth, 
queen  of  England,  and  the  said  founders  and  for  their  souls  after  death  and 
the  souls  of  William  Wobourn,  late  minor  canon  of  the  cathedral  church 
of  St.  Paul,  London,  brother  of  the  said  John,  and  all  who  may  lay  helping 
hands  to  the  sustenance  of  the  house,  to  be  called  the  almshouse  of  the  said 
William  at  Yevyll,  and  for  the  said  warden,  guardians  and  poor  persons 
to  acquire  in  mortmain,  after  inquisition,  lands,  rents  and  other  possessions, 
not  held  in  chief,  to  the  value  of  10  marks  yearly. 

By  p.s.  and  for  40  marks  paid  in  the  hanaper. 

Licence  for  the  prior  and  convent  of  Crolandye  to  elect  an  abbot  in  the 
place  of  John  Wysbech,  deceased.  By  p.s. 

Pardon  to  Laurence  Bothe,  archbishop  of  York,  primate  of  England  and 
legate  of  the  apostolic  sec,  late  bishop  of  Durham,  of  all  fines,  amercements, 
issues,  debts,  accounts  and  arrears  due  from  him  to  the  king  by  reason  of 
the  archbishopric  of  Y''ork.  By  p.s^ 

Grant  to  the  king's  consort  Elizabeth,  queen  of  England  and  France  and 
lady  of  Ireland,  and  her  assigns  of  the  collation  to  the  next  vacant  canonry 
and  prebend  in  the  king's  free  chapel  of  St.  Stephen  within  the  palace  of 
Westminster.  By  p.s. 


16  EDWARD  IV.— Part  I. 


605 


1476.  Membranes  29d-2Gd. 

Commissiona  of  the  peace  in  various  counties.    (See  Appendix.) 

Membrane  25d. 

March  13.       Commission  to  John  Sturgeon  and  John  Forster,  esquires,  and  John 
Buckden.     Neubuiy  to  arrest  William  Lawedy  and  bring  him  before  the  king  and 
council  in  the  quinzaine  of  Easter  next. 

March  13.  Commission  to  John  Howard  of  Howard,  knight,  Thomas  Howard, 
Buckden.  esquire,  James  Hobard,  Thomas  Sampson,  esquire,  Thomas  Appylton, 
William  Smyth  of  Colchestre  and  the  sheriffs  of  Essex  and  Suffolk  to 
enquire  into  the  complaint  of  Henry  Hoveman  and  Barnard  Grcfyngk, 
merchants  of  the  parts  of  Lubyke  of  the  Hanse  Almain,  that  when  they 
were  sailing  in  their  ship  called  la  3Iarie  of  Lote  in  Scotland  laden  with 
wheat  and  other  goods  and  merchandise  and  jewels  to  the  value  of  267/.  to 
take  to  Flanders  certain  pirates,  subjects  of  the  king,  on  Friday  before  the 
Assumption  last  on  the  high  sea  off  the  coast  of  Suffolk  at  a  place  called 
Kyrklod  in  two  ships  called  le  Jcnct  Peryn,  of  which  Nicholas  Schellem 
was  master,  and  la  Marie  of  Sandwich,  of  which  Richard  Lokwode  was 
master,  seized  their  ship  and  carried  off  the  wheat,  merchandise  and  jewels 
to  Harwyche,  co.  Essex,  and  Leystoft,  co.  Suffolk,  and  there  disposed  of 
them,  and  to  seize  the  said  wheat,  goods,  merchandise  and  jewels  and  keep 
them  in  safe-custody. 

March  16.  Appointment,  during  pleasure,  of  the  king's  firstborn  son  Edward,  prince 
Buckden.  of  Wales,  duke  of  Cornwall  and  earl  of  Chester  and  Flynt,  or  such 
persons  as  by  the  advice  of  his  council  he  may  substitute,  to  enquire  about 
all  liberties,  privileges  and  franchises  in  the  counties  of  Salop,  Hereford  and 
Gloucester  and  the  marches  of  Wales  adjacent  which  should  be  taken  into 
the  king's  hands  and  all  escapes  of  robbers  and  felons  in  the  same  counties 
and  marches.  By  K. 


Membrane  17  d. 

May  17.  Commission  to  John  Carlcle,  mayor  of  Newcastle  on  Tyne,  John  Car- 
Westminster,  tyngtou,  Joliu  Swynbourne  and  William  Lauson  to  enquire  into  divers 
spoliations,  robberies  and  breaches  of  safe-conducts  and  truces  between  the 
king  and  foreign  princes  committed  at  sea  by  James  Hayne  and  his  accom- 
plices, now  in  prison  at  Newcastle  on  Tync,  and  to  chastise  and  punii^h 
them  according  to  maritime  law  and  custom,  at  a  court  of  Admiralty. 

May  24-.  Commission  to  John  Fortescu,  esquire,  sheriff  of  Cornwall,  the  king's 
Westminster,  bailiffs  of  Fowcy  and  certain  other  officers  and  ministers  of  the  king  in  the 
said  county  to  enquire  into  the  complaint  of  Ivo  Pylyen,  factor  and  attorney 
of  John  Genffrey,  merchant  of  Dawrey  in  Brittany,  that  when  in  May, 
15  Edward  IV.  he  was  sailing  near  the  coast  of  Brittany  in  a  ship  called  le 
Marye  of  Cayre  in  Brittany,  laden  with  iron,  oil  and  other  merchandise  to 
the  value  of  500  ducats,  one  John  Dany,  master  and  owner  of  a  ship  called 
le  Parker  of  Fowey,  with  24  persons  in  it  seized  his  ship  and  despoiled  it 
of  the  iron,  oil  and  other  merchandise,  contrary  to  the  form  of  the  truces 
between  the  king  and  his  kinsman  the  duke  of  Brittany,  and  to  arrest  the 
said  John  Dany  and  cause  restitution  to  be  made. 


Membrane  lOd. 

Sept.  12.       Commission  to  the  king's  kinsman  Henry,  earl  of  Northumberland,  to 
Buckden.     arrest  Richard  Barowe  of  the  county  of  Northumberland,  'gentilman,'  and 
bring  him  before  the  king  and  council. 


606 


CALENDAR  OF  PATENT  ROLLS. 


1476.  Membrane  \0d — cont. 

Sept.  23.       Commission  to  Thomas,  marquis  of  Dorset,  Anthony,  earl  Ryvers,  Richard 
Buckden.     Fenys  of   Dacre,  knight,  Simon  Mountford,  knight,   Thomas  Ferrers, 
knight,  John  Grcvyle,  knight,  Henry  Boteler,  John  Beaufitz,  and  John 
West  to  deliver  the  gaol  of  Warwick  of  Thomas  Taylonr  of  Bermyngham, 
prisoner  there. 


IIembrane  9d. 

Sept.  11.  Commission  to  the  king's  kinsman  John,  duke  of  Suffolk,  Robert  Cham- 
Buckden.  berlayn,  knight,  William  Calthorpe,  knight,  Robert  Fenys,  knight,  Thomas 
Brewes,  knight,  James  Tyrell,  knight,  John  Henyngham,  knight,  Laui"ence 
Reynford,  knight,  William  Harleston,  esquire,  John  Fyncheam,  John  Sul- 
yard  and  Henry  Spilman  to  enquire  into  certain  riots,  routs,  congregations, 
assemblies  and  conventicles  within  the  county  of  Suffolk. 


Membrane  8d. 

Aug.  1.  Commission  of  oyer  and  terminer  to  Humphrey  Dacre,  knight,  Richard 
Buckden.  Nele,  knight,  William  Parre,  knight,  Thomas  Styrkland,  knight,  Chris- 
topher Moresby,  knight,  John  Crahenthorpe  of  llolgyll  and  John  Quarton 
of  Kyrkeby  Thore  touching  certain  treasons,  counterfeitings,  clippings, 
sweatings  and  other  falsifications  of  money  of  the  realm  within  the  counties 
of  Cumberland  and  Westmoreland. 


Membrane  4c?. 

Nov.  13.        Commission  to  Henry  Badby,  Thomas  Pakyngton,  Christopher  Holand 
Westminster,  and  the  sheriff  of  Buckingham  to  arrest  Ricliard  Bayly  of  Bryhylle,  co. 
Buckingham,  and  bring  him  before  the  king  and  council. 


Membrane  Id. 

Nov.  24.       Commission  to  Thomas  Acton,  John  Welford,  William  Froste  and 
Westminster.  Thomas  Barton  to  enquire  what  lands  Edward  Nevile,  late  lord  of  Ber- 
gevenny,  knight,  tenant  in  chief,  held  in  the  county  of  Hereford  and  the 
marches  of  Wales  adjacent,  how  much  they  are  worth,  on  what  day  he 
died  and  who  is  his  heir,  and  to  take  the  same  into  tlie  king's  hands. 

The  like  to  Robert  Throgmerton,  Thomas  Acton,  William  Froste  and 
John  Grafton  in  the  county  of  Worcester  and  the  marches  of  Wales 
adjacent. 


607 


APPENDIX. 


COMMISSIONS  OE  THE  PEACE. 


Bedfordshire. 

1.  Westminster,  8  February,  1468.      7  Edward  IV.  Part  1.  ni.  22d. 

2.  Dogmerrifield,  8  April,  14G9.  9         „  „  24d 

3.  Westminster,  7  November,  1470.  49  Henry  VI.  m.  27cZ. 

4.  „        28  February,  1471.  „  23d. 

5.  „  12  June,  1471.  II  Edward  IV.  Part  1.  m.  28d. 
G.  „        22  October,  1472.      12        „  „  27d. 

7.  „  7  December,  1473.  13  „  „  19c/. 

8.  „  19  May,  1475.  15  „  „  3ld. 

9.  „  10  November,  1475.  „  „  27d. 
10.  „  26  April,  1476.  IG  „  „  2Sd. 


J.  bisliop  of  Lincoln,  1,  2,  3,  4. 

George,  duke  of  Clarence,  1,  2,  3,  4,  5, 
G,  7,  8,  9,  10. 

Eicbard,  carl  of  Warwick  and  Salis- 
bury, 1,  2,  3,  4. 

Edmund,  earl  of  Kent.  1,  2,  5,  6,  7, 

8,  9,  10. 

John  Wenlok  of  Wenlok,  knight,  1,  2, 
3,  4. 

Thomas  Billyng,  1,  2,  3,  4,  5,  6,  7,  8, 

9,  10. 

Richard  Pygot,  1,  2,  3,  4,  5,  6,  7,  8,  9, 
10. 

John  Broughton,  1,  2,  3,  4. 

„  „       the  elder,  G,7,  8, 9,  10. 

Thomas  Reynes,  Raynes,  1,  2,  3,  4. 
John  Manyngham,  1,  2. 
John  Sturgeon,  1,  2,  5,  6,  7,  8. 
William  Ilertishorn,  1,  2,  5. 
Philip  Ilarneys,  1,  2. 
Robert  Bothe,  ],  2,  3,  4,  5,  6,  7. 
William  Pck,  Pokke,  1,2,  3,  4,  5,  6,  7, 

8,  9,  10. 


John  Cokeyn,  Cokayn,  1,  2,  3,  4,  9, 
10. 

William  Goldyngton,  1,  2,  6,  7,  8. 
Richard  Godfrey,  1,  2,  3,  4,  5,  6,  7,  8, 
9,  10. 

Antony  Grey,  knight,  2,  5,  6,  7,  8,  9, 
10. 

G.  archbishop  of  York,  3,  4. 
William  Tournay,  knight,  3,  4. 
Henry,  duke  of  Exeter,  4. 
Richard,  duke  of  Gloucester,  5,  6,  7,  8, 
9,  10. 

Jolin  Hervy,  Ilarvy,  5,  6,  7. 

Th.  bishop  of  Lincoln,  6,  7,  8,  9,  10. 

John  Rotherham,  6,  7,  8,  9,  10. 

Richard  Carlylc,  6,  7,  8,  10. 

Richard  Widevyle,  knight,  7,  8,  9,  10. 

Robert  Gilibroud,  Gillybrond,  Gely- 

broude,  7,  8,  9,  10. 
John  Laurence,  7,  8. 
William  Colett,  7,  8,  9,  10. 
John  FysBher,  8. 


BERKSHIRE. 


1.  Westminster,  14  November,  1470. 


2. 

»> 

12  June,  147). 

3. 

30  May,  1473. 

4. 

» 

8  December,  1473. 

5. 

7  December,  1474. 

6. 

10  November,  1475 

7. 

20  May,  1476. 

49  Henry  VI.  m.  26d. 


11  Edward  IV.  Part  1. 

m. 

29d. 

13 

» 

2  Id. 

>> 

>> 

20rf. 

» 

>> 

26rf. 

15 

» 

25<f. 

16 

>> 

29d. 

608 


Berkshire — cont. 


W.  bishop  of  Winchester,  1,  2,  3,  4,  5, 
6,  7. 

R.  bishop  of  Salisbury,  1, 2,*  3,  4,  5,6,7. 
George,  duke  of  Clarence,  1,  2,  3,  4,  5, 
6,  7. 

John,  duke  of  Suffolk,  1,  2,  3,  4,  5, 
6,  7. 

Richard,  earl  of  Warwick  and  Salis- 
bury, 1. 

John  Bourghchier  of  Earners,  knight, 

1,  2,  4. 
John  Wenlok  of  Wenlok,  knight,  1. 
l^ichard  Chok,  knight,  1. 
William  Laken,  1,  2,  3,  4,  5. 
Thomas  Bryan,  1. 
Thomas  de  Lamere,  1 . 
Thomas  Restwold,  1,  6,  7. 
John  Lawely,  Lawelee,  1,  6,  7. 
Thomas  Say,  1,  2,  3,  4,  5,  6,  7. 
Humphrey  Forster,  1. 
William  Danrers,  1. 


Richard,  duke  of  Gloucester,  2,  3,  4,  5, 
6,  7. 

J ohn  Howard  of  Howard,  knight,  2,  3, 
4,  5,  7. 

Thomas  Urswyk,  knight,  2,  3,  4,  5, 
6,  7. 

Guy  Fairfax,  2,  3,  4,  5,  6,  7. 
William  Norreys,  knight,  2,  3,  4,  5, 

6,  7. 
Thomas  Prut,  2. 
Edward  Langford,  2,  8,  4. 
John  Cheyny,  Cbeyne,  2,  3,  4. 
Thomas  Roggers,  2. 
Thomas  Walron,  2,  3,  4,  5,  6,  7. 
William  Trussell,  knight,  3,  4. 
Ralph  Staverton,  3,  4,  5. 
John  Isbury,  4,  6,  7. 
J  ohn  Colyngrygge,  4,  5,  G,  7. 
R.  bishop  of  Bath  and  Wells,  5,  6,  7. 
John  Bourghchier,  5. 
Thomas  Langford,  5. 


B  UCKINGHAMSHIRE. 


1 .  Westminster,  23  May,  1468. 


2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 


8  December,  1468. 
13  July,  1470. 
28  December,  1470. 
4  January,  1471. 
12  June,  1471. 
8  August,  1471. 
1  June,  1473. 
10  November,  1475. 


G.  archbishop  of  York,  1,  2,  4,  5. 
W.  bishop  of  Winchester,  1,  2,  3,  4,  5. 
George,  duke  of  Clarence,  i ,  2,  4,  6,  6, 

7,  8,  9. 

Richard,  earl  of  Warwick  and  Salis- 
bury, 1,  2,  4,  5. 
Edmund,  earl  of  Kent,  1,  2,  3,  6,  7, 

8,  9. 

John  Wenlok  of  Wenlok,  knight,  1,  2, 
3,  4,  5. 

Thomas  Billyng,  1,  2,  3,  4,  5,  7,  8,  9. 
Richard  Pygot,  1,  2,  3,  4,  5,  6,  7, 
8,  9. 

Thomas  Mongomery,  knight,  1,  2,  6, 
7,  8. 

Edmund  Rede,  Ree,  knight,  1,2,  3,  4, 

5,  6,  7,  8,  9. 
John  Dyrham,  Dirham,  1,  2,  4,  5. 
Robert  Jngleton,  1,  2,  4,  5. 
John  Boteler  of  Badmynton,  1,  2. 
Edmund  Brutenell,  I,  2. 
Richard  LoveU,  1,  2,  3,  5,  6,  7,  8,  9. 


8  Edward  IV.  Part  1.  m.  27c?. 
„  ,,        ,,  2(ic?. 

10  „  „        „  14c?. 
49  Henry  VI.  m.  2ld. 

11  Edward  IV.  Part  1.  ra.  29rf. 

28c?. 
21d 
28c?. 


13 
15 


53 
J) 


John  Brekenok  of  Hampden,  1,  2, 4,  5. 
Thomas  Hampden  of  Hampden,  1,  2, 

3,  4,  5,  8,  9. 
William  Fowler,  1,  2. 

Richard  Fowler,  1,  2,  3,  6,  7,  8,  9. 
John  Scotte,  1,  2. 

Thomas  Hampden  of  Kembell,  1,  2,  3, 

4,  5,  8. 

Thomas  Rokes,  1,  2,  3,  8. 
Edmund  Molyneux,  2,  4,  5,  8. 
Richard,  duke  of  Gloucester,  3,  6,  7, 
8,9. 

Thomas  Bryan,  3,  6,  7,  8,  9. 

John  Langston,  3. 

John  Giftbrd,  6,  7,  8,  9. 

Robert  Rufford,  6,  7. 

Richard  Maryotte,  Mariott,  6,  7,  8,  9. 

Ralph  Verney,  knight,  7,  8. 

Thomas  Vaghan,  8. 

Richard  Bulstrode,  8. 

Thomas  Fowler,  8,  9. 

Drugo  Brudenell,  8. 


*  "  Exeter  "  in  error. 


609 


CA  MB  rid  GE shire. 


1.  Westminster,  18  November,  1468. 

2.  „  14  December,  1470. 

3.  „  10  December,  1473. 

4.  „  10  November,  1475. 


8  Edward  IV.  Part  1.  m.  26rf. 
49  Henry  VI.  m.  2od. 
13  Edward  IV.  Fart  1.  m.  \9d. 
15       „  „        „  21  d. 


W.  bi.sliop  of  Ely,  1,  3,  4. 

l?icliard,  earl  of  Warwick  and  Salis- 
bury, 1,2. 

John,  earl  of  Oxford,  1,  2. 

John,  earl  of  Worcester,  1. 

John,  earl  of  Northumberland,  marquis 
of  Montagu,  1,  2. 

John  Lescrope,  knight,  1,  2,  3,  4. 

Thomas  Billyng,  1,  2,  3,  4. 

Richard  Bygott,  Pygott,  1,2,3,  4. 

John  Cheyne,  knight,  1,  2,  3,  4. 

William  Soyntgeorge,  knight,  1,  2. 

Thomas  Gray,  1. 

„         „     knight,  3,  4. 

John  Alyngton,  1,  3,  4. 

Thomas  Peyton,  1. 

William  Frevyle,  1,  2,  3. 

Henry  Chichelee,  Chycheley,  1,  3. 


Thomas  Burgoyn,  1. 

William  Alyngton,  1,  3,  4. 

John  Ansty,  1,  3. 

William  Hasylden,  1 . 

John  Brewode,  1 ,  2. 

Thomas  Lokton,  1,  3. 

Richard  Kneseworth,  1. 

John  Gyrton,  1,  2,3. 

J.  bishop  of  Lincoln,  2. 

George,  duke  of  Clarence,  2,  3,  4. 

Thomas  Cotton,  2. 

Th.  bishop  of  Lincoln,  3,  4. 

E.  bishop  of  Carlisle,  3,  4. 

Richard,  duke  of  Gloucester,  3,  4. 

Antony,  earl  of  Hyvcrs,  3,  4. 

John  Aspelon,  Asplon,  3,  4. 

Alexander  Wode,  3,  4. 

Henry  Langlee,  4. 


Town  of  Cambridge. 

1.  Westminster,  26  January,  1471.    49  Henry  VI.  m.  2\d. 

2.  „         4  November,  1471.    11  Edward  IV.  Part  1.  m.  2Gd. 

3.  „         28  October,  1473.     13  „        „        „  I3d. 

4.  „         20  November,  1475.  15  „        „        „  29rf. 


E.  bishop  of  Carlisle,  chancellor  of  the 

University,  1. 
Robert  Wodelark,  provost  of  the  royal 

college  of  St.  Mury  and  St.  Nicholas, 

1,4. 

Edmund  Cunnesburgh,  clerk,  1. 
John  Croft,  3,  4. 

„       „     mayor  of  the  town,  1,  2. 
John  Belton,  1,  2,  3,  4. 
John  Burgoyn,  1, 
John  Gyrton,  1. 
Ralph  Ilothum,  1. 
Thomas  Lacy,  1. 
Robert  Damay,  1. 

„         ,,      mayor  of  the  town,  4. 


Robert  Coope,  Cope,  1,  4. 

Thomas  Ilayreman,  Ileyrcman,  1,2,3. 

Th.  bishop  of  Rochester,  2. 

Tliomas  Style,  Stoyle,  clerk,  2,  3,  4. 

Thomas  Lane,  clerk,  2. 

William  Alyngton,  2,  3,  4. 

John  Asplon,  2,  3. 

Alexander  Wode,  2,  3,  4. 

Th.  bishop  of  Lincoln,  chancellor  of 

the  University,  3,  4. 
Thomas  Byllyng,  3. 
Edmund  Shrove,  clerk,  3. 
John  Coke,  mayor  of  the  (own,  3, 
Jol)n  Ansty,  3. 
Master  Roger  Kotheraro,  4. 


CORNTFALL. 

1.  Westminster,  18  December,  14(i9.  9  Edward  TV.  Part  1.  m.  2ld. 

2.  „          8  November,  1470.  49  Henry  VI.  m.  27d. 

3.  „          20  December,  1471.  „           „  24d. 

4.  „          17  January,  1471.  „           „  24d. 
„          23  February,  1471.  „           „  25d. 

6.  „          18  February,  1471.  „           „  22d. 

7.  „         5  June,  1472.  12  Edward  IV,  Part  1,  m.  23d. 
y  06186.  Q 


610 


Cornwall — cont. 


8.  Westminster,  3  December,  1473. 
y.  „         9  December,  1474. 

10.  „  10  November,  1475. 

11.  Sleaford,  11  April,  1476 

12.  Westminster,  28  November,  1476. 

J.  bisbop  of  Exeter,  1,  2,  3,  4,  5,  6,  7, 
8,  11. 

George,  duke  of  Clarence,  1,  2,  3,  4,  5, 

6,  7,  8,  9,  10,  11,  12. 
Richard,  earl  of  Warwick  and  Salisbury, 

I,  2,  3,  4,  5,  6. 

Walter  Moyle,  Moile,  knigbt,  1,  2,  3, 
4,  5,  6. 

Tbomr.s  Yonge,  1,  2,  3,  4,  5,  6. 
Jobu  Arundell  of  Lanberu,  knight,  1. 
John  Colshull,  knigbt,  1,  5,  7,  8,  9,  10, 

II,  12. 

Thomas  Whalisburgh,  Wallesburgh,  1, 

3,  4,  5,  6,  7,  8,  9,  10,  11. 
Alured  Corneburgh,  1,  2,  3,  4,  6,  7, 

8,  9. 

John  Champernoun,  1. 

Edward  Ayssheton,  1,  7,  8,  9,  10, 

11,  12. 
Thomas  Nymbery,  1. 
Thomas  Lucombe,  1,  8,  9. 
Thomas  Clemens,  1,  2,  3,  4,  5,  6. 
Thomas  Bere,  1,  2,   3,  4,  5,  6,  10, 

11,  12. 

William  Mennwynnek,  I,  2,  3,  4,  5, 
G,  7,  8,  9,  10,  11,  12. 


13  Edward  IV.  Part  1.  m.  20d. 

14  „  „        ,,  26^/. 

15  „  „        „  28J. 

16  „  „        „  29rf. 
„  „        „  21(3,. 

John,  earl  of  Oxford,  2,  3,  4,  5,  6. 
Hugh  Courtenay,  knight,  2,  3. 
Thomas  Lymbery,  2,  3,  5,  6,  7,  8,  9, 

10,  11. 
Richard  Joce,  4,  5,  6,  8. 
Richard,  duke  of  Gloucester,  7,  8,  9, 

10,  11,  12. 

John,  earl  of  Wiltshire,  7. 

Richard  Chokke,  knight,  7,  8,  9,  10, 

11,  12. 

John  Catesby,  7,  8,  9,  10,  11,  12. 
John  Arundel],  knight,  2,  3,  4,  5,  6, 
7,  8, 

Robert  Willougbby,  knight,  7,  8,  9. 

John  Peijpouns,  7,  8,  9. 

Henry  Bodrugan,  7,  8. 

Thomas  Trefry,  7,  8. 

John  Glynnc,  7. 

Thomas  Rowell,  8,  9. 

John  Carmynowe,  9,  10,  11,  12. 

Richard  Eggecombe,  9. 

John  Moyle,  9. 

John  Page,  10,  11,  12. 

Richard  Vyvyau,  12. 

Thomas  Tresawell,  12. 


Cumberland. 

1.  Westminster,  6  February,  1471.     49  Henry  VI.,  m.  22c?. 

2.  Coventry,  20  June,  1473.  13  Edward  IV.  Part  1.  m.  21<7. 

3.  Westminster,  10  November,  1475.  15       „  „        „  2Sd. 


G.  archbishop  of  York,  1. 
George,  duke  of  Clarence,  1,  2,  3. 
Jolm,  marquis  of  Montagu,  1. 
Richard,  earl  of  Warwick  and  Salis- 
bury, 1. 

Henry   Fitz   Hugh   of   Fitz  Hugb, 

knight,  1. 
John  Ncdeham,  knight,  1. 
Thomas  Littelton,  knight,  1. 
John  Hudilston,   Hudleston,  knight, 

1,2. 

Lancelot  Tbrykked,  knight,  1. 
Hugb  Louther,  1. 
Richard  Musgrave,  1. 
Roland  Vaux,  1. 
Richard  Salkeld,  1. 
Richard  Bewle,  1. 
Thomas  Bate,  1, 
E.  bishop  of  Carlisle,  2,  3. 


Richardj  duke  of  Gloucester,  2,  3. 
Henry,  earl  of  Northumberland,  2,  3. 
Iliimplirey  Dacre  of  Dacre,  kniglit, 
2,  3. 

Richard  Nele,  2,  3. 
William  Jenney,  2,  3. 
William  Parre,  knight,  2,  3. 
Christopher  Moresby,  knight,  2,  3. 
William  Legh,  Lygh,  knight,  2,  3. 
Thomas  Curwen,  knight,  2,  3. 
Thomas  Broughton,  knight,  2. 
Thomas  Laraplewe,  knight,  2. 
John  Crakenthorpe,  esquire,  2,  3. 
Roland  Thornburgh,  2,  3. 
John  Appulby,  2. 
William  Beweley,  Beaule,  2,  3. 
John  Crakenthorpe,  knight,  2, 
Richard  Hudelston.  2, 


611 


DERBYSHIRE. 


1.  l")ogmersfield,  29  March,  1469.  9 

2.  Westminster,  30  November,  14V0  49 
2i  January,  1471. 
26  June,  1471.  11 
24  February,  1472. 
12  December,  1473.  13 
10  November,  1475.  15 
18  January,  1476. 


G.  arclibisliop  of  York,  1,  2,  3. 
Geoi-ge,  duke  of  Clarence,  1,  2,  3,  4,  5, 
G,  7,  8. 

Eichard,  earl  of  Warwick  and  Salis- 
bury, 1,  2,  3. 
Jolui,  carl  of  Shrewsbury,  1,  2,  3,  4,  5. 
Henry  Grey  of  Codnore,  knight,  1,  4, 
6,  7,  8. 

Humphrey  Bourghchicr  of  Cromwell, 

knight,  1. 
Wilham    Hastyugcs    of  Hastynges, 

knight,  1,  4,  5,  6,  7,  8. 
Walter  Blount  of  Mountjoyc,  knight, 

1,  4,  5,  G. 
Robert  Danby,  knight,  1,  2.  3,  4. 
John  NedeJiam,  knight,  1,2,  3,  4,  5, 

6,  7,  8. 
William  Blount,  1. 
John  Grcseley,  knight,  1. 
Thomas  Stathom,  knight,  1. 
Henry  Vernon,  1,  2,  3,  5,  6,  7,  8- 


Edward  IV.  Part  1.  m.  22d. 
Henry  VI.  m.  26 J. 

„  24rf. 

Edward  IV.  Part  1.  m.  26r/. 
„  „       „  2Grf. 

„  „       >,  26f7. 

„  „       ,>  26f/. 

John  Bolhe,  1,  2,  3,  4,  5,  6,  7,  8. 
Nicholas  Fitzherbert,  I,  2,  3,  4,  5,  6. 
Nicholas  Stathom,  1,  2,  3,  4,  5. 
Thomas  Fraunceys,  1,  2,  3,  4,  5,  (3, 
7,  8. 

Thomas  Poutrell,  2,  3,  4,  5,  6,  7,  8. 
Henry  Folgeham,  3. 
Richard,  duke  of  Gloucester,  4,  5,  0, 
7,  8. 

Nicholas  Langford,  knight,  4,  5,  6, 
7,  8. 

Thomas  Littleton,  5,  6,  7,  8. 

Robert  Eyre,  5,  6. 

Laurence  Lowe,  5,  6. 

James  Blount,  G. 

Ralph  Fitzherbcrt,  G. 

John  Fitzlierbert,  6. 

Thomas  Eyre,  7,  8. 

John  Cursotie,  7,  8. 

Henry  Stathome,  7,  8. 

John  Blount  of  Mount  Joye,  8. 


Devonshire. 


1.  Coventry,  IB  February,  1468. 

2.  AVcstniinster,  12  July,  1468. 

3.  „  10  November,  1469. 

4.  „  16  Fcl)ruary,  1470. 

5.  Exeter,  1(5  April,  1470. 

6.  Westminster,  30  November,  1470. 

7.  „  25  December,  1470. 

8.  „  20  jMarch,  1471. 

9.  „  5  PY'bruary,  1471. 

10.  „         20  February,  1471. 

11.  „          20  June,  1471. 

12.  „         10  May,  1472. 

\:',.  „         2,'5  November,  1472. 

14.  „  1  F(-l>ruary,  1474. 

J 5.  Banbury,  21  September,' 1474. 

16.  Westminster,  10  November,  1475. 

17.  Buckden,  2  August,  1476. 

18.  Westminster,  24  February,  1477. 

19.  „  1  March,  1477. 


7  Edward  IV.  Part  1 
9 


10 

49  Henry  VI.  m.  26(/. 

„  23d. 
„  23d. 
„  22^?. 
22d. ' 

11  Edward  I v'.' Part  1. 

12  ,) 

)>  >' 

13  „  „ 

11  „ 

15  ,,  ,, 

16  „  „ 


m.  21ef. 
„  21V/. 
„  23./. 

„  21  d 
„  I5d. 


m.  2Qd. 

„  29d. 

„  24rf. 

„  19./. 

„  24rf. 

„  28f/. 

„  21d. 

.,  26d. 

„  2Cvf. 


J.  bishop  of  Exeter,  1,  2,  3,  4,  5,  G,  7, 
8,  9,  10,  11,  12,  13,  14,  16,  17,  18, 
19. 


George,  d'ake  of  Clarence,  1,  2,  3,  4, 
6,  7,  8,  9,  10,  11,  12,  13,  14,  15,  16, 
17,  J  8,  19. 

QQ  2 


612 


Devonshire — cont. 


Richard,  earl  of  Warwick  and  Salis- 
bury, ] ,  2,  3,  4,  6,  7,  8,  9,  10. 

William  Bourghchier  of  Fitz  Wareyn, 
knight,  1,  2,  3. 

rinmplirey  Stafford  of  Southwyko, 
kuight,  1,  2. 

John  Dynham,  Dynam,  Denam,  of 
Uynham,  knight,  1,  2,  3,  4,  5,  11, 

12,  13,  14,  15,  16,  17,  18,  19. 
John,  abbot  of  Stavystoke,  Tavestok, 

1,  2,  3,  4,  5,  8,  9,  10,  11,  12,  13,  14, 

16,  17,  18,  19. 

Henry  Webber,  dean  of  Exeter  cathe- 
dral, 1,  2,  3,  4,  5,  6,  7,  8,  9,  10. 
Walter  Moyle,  knight,  1,  2,  3,  4,  5,  6, 

7,  8,  9,  10. 

Thomas  Yonge,  1,  2,  3,  4,  5,  6,  7,  8, 

9,  10. 

William  Courtenay,  knight,  1,2,  3,  4, 

6,  7,  8,  9,  10,  11,  12,  13,  14. 
Philip  Beaumont,  1,  2,  3,  4,  5,  11,  12, 

13,  14. 

Henry  Pomeray,  1,  2,  3,  4,  5,  11,  12, 

13,  14,  16. 
John  ChamDeruoun,  1,  2,  3,  4,  5,  li, 

12,  13,  14'. 

John  Gyfford,  Gefford,  1,  2,  3,  4,  5. 
Thomss  Doweryssh,  Dowrissh,  1,  2,  3, 

4,  5,  11,  r^,  13,  14,  16,  17,  18,  19. 
John  Orchard,  1,  2,  3,  4,  5,  6,  7,  8,  9, 

10,  11,  12,  13,  14,  16,  17,  18,  19. 
Philip  Copleston,  1,  2,  3,  4,  5,  6,  7, 

8,  9,  10. 

John  Denys,  1,  2,  3,  4,  6,  0,  7,  8,  9, 

10,  11,  12,  13,  14,  16,  17,  18,  Id. 
William  Shyllyngford,  1,  2,  3,  4,  5,  6, 

7,  8,  9,  10,  19. 

John  Byconell,  Byconyll,  1,  2,  3,  4,  5. 
Thomas  Calwodeley,  1,  2,  3,  4,  5,  12, 

13,  14. 

William  Huddesfelde,  Huddelfeld,  2, 
3,  4,  5,  6,  7,  8,  9,  10,  12,  13,  14,  16, 

17,  18,  19. 


Hugh  Courtenay,  knight,  3,  4,  7,  8, 
9,  10. 

Richard,  duke  of  Gloucester,  5,  11,  12, 

13,  14,  15,  16,  17,  18,  19. 
John,  earl  of  Wiltshire,  5,  11,  12,  13. 
Fulk  Bourghchier   of  Fitz  Wareyn, 

knight,  4,  5,  11,  12,  13,  14,  16,  17, 

18,  19. 

Walter  Blount  of  Mountjoy,  knight,  5. 
Halnath  Maulyverer,  6,  7,  8,  9,  10. 
Richard  Wydeslade,  Whittyslade,  Wy- 
tyslade,  6,  12,  13,  14,  16,  17,  18,  19. 
John,  earl  of  Devon,  8. 
John  Halwell,  Hawell,  8,  10,  11,  12, 

13,  14. 

Richard  Choke,  knight,  11,  12,  13,  14, 

15,  16,  17,  18,  19. 
John  Catesby,  11,  12,  13,  14,  16,  17, 

18,  19. 

Philip  Courteuey,  knight,  11,  12,  13, 

14,  16,  17,  18,  19. 

John  Crokker,  knight,  11,  12,  13,  14. 
Ciiarles  Dynham,  11,  12,  13,  14,  17. 
Christopher  Cooke,  Coke,  11,  12,  13. 
14. 

John  Arundel],  knight,  13. 

Richard  Clerk,  13,  14. 

Thomas  Seintleger,  14,  16,  17,  18,  19. 

John  Bonne vyle,  14. 

William    Hastynges    of  Ha&tynges, 

knight,  15. 
Thomas  Stanley  of  Stanley,  knight,  15. 
John  Audeley  of  Audeley,  knight,  15. 
John  Sutton  of  Dudley,  knight,  15. 
VValter  Devereux  of  Ferrers,  knight, 

15. 

Richard  Hastynges,  knight,  15. 
Thomas  Lytelton,  15. 
William  Notyngham,  IS. 
Henry  Boteler,  15. 

Edward  Lysle  of  Lysle,  kuight,  16,  17, 

18,  19. 
Robert  Palmer,  18,  19. 


DORSETSHIRE. 


1.  Westminster,  24  October,  1467. 

2.  „  28  October,  1468. 
8.  Dogmersfield,  4  January,  1469. 
4.  Westminster,  7  December,  1470. 


6. 

it 

b  December,  1471. 

6. 

>5 

31  October,  1472. 

7. 

)> 

30  May,  1473. 

8.  ■ 

>f 

11  February,  1474, 

9. 

>» 

15  July,  1474. 

10. 

t> 

10  November,  1475. 

7  Edward  IV.  Part  1. 

m. 

20d. 

8 

?> 

5) 

28f/. 

J) 

j» 

)> 

25(1. 

49  Henry  VI.  m.  25d. 

1 1  Edward  IV. 

Part  1. 

m. 

27d. 

12 

)) 

)) 

27d. 

13 

)) 

i> 

2ld. 

9> 

19d. 

5' 

» 

27d. 

15 

» 

29d. 

613 


Dorsetshire — cont. 


Eichard,  bishop  of  Salisbury,  1,  2,  8,  4, 

5,  G,  7,  8,  9,  10. 

George,  duke  of  Clarence,  1,  2,  3,  4,  5, 

6,  7,  8,  9,  10. 

Richard,  earl  of  Warwick  and  Salis- 
bury, 1,  2,  3,  4. 
John,  carl  of  Worcester,  1,  2,  3. 
John  Audeley  of  Audeley,  knight,  1,  2, 

3,  5,  6,  7,  8,  9,  10. 

William  Stourton  of  Stonrton,  knight, 

1,  2,  3,  4,  5,  6,  7,  8,  9,  10. 
Humphrey  Stafford  of  Suthwyk,  knight, 

1,  2,  3. 

Walter  Moyle,  knight,  1,  2,  3,  4. 
Thomas  Yonge,  1,  2,  3,  4. 
William  Carant,  1,  2,  3,  4,  5,  G,  7,  8, 
9,  10. 

John  Neuburgh,  Neweburgh,  1,  2,  3, 

4,  7,  8,  9,  10. 

William  Brounyng,  1,  2,  3,  5. 
William  Kayleway,  Caylewey,  I,  2,  3. 
Robert  Gray,  Grey,  1,  2,  3,  4,  5,  6,  7, 
8,  9. 

Thomas  Husee,  1,  2,  5,  6,  7,  8,  9,  10. 


Henry  Hull,  2,  3,  5,  6,  7,  8. 
John  Carant  the  younger,  3,  5,  6,  7,  8, 
9,  10. 

William  Neweburgh,  4. 
John  Mone,  4,  5,  6,  7,  8,  9,  10. 
Walter  Chevcrell,  4,  7,  8,  9,  10. 
Richard,  duke  of  Gloucester,  5,  G,  7, 
8,  9,  10. 

Richard  Chokke,  knight,  5,  6,  7,  8,  9, 
10. 

John  Catesby,  5,  G,  7,  8,  9,  10, 
Nicholas  Latymer,  knight,  5,  6,  7,  8. 
Thomas  Martyn,  6,  7,  8,  9,  10. 
William  Framptoi),  G,  7,  8,  9. 
William  Twynylio,  8,  9. 
William,  earl  of  Arundel,  10. 
Thomas     Matravers    of  Matravcrs, 

knight,  10. 
Thomas  Stanley  of  Stanley,  knight, 

10. 

Richard  Tunstall,  knight,  10. 
William  Notyiigham,  10. 
Morgan  Kydwelly,  10. 


Essex. 


1.  Westminster,  23  June,  1467. 

2.  „  28  .January,  1468. 

3.  „  23  July,  14G8. 

4.  „  13  December,  1468. 

5.  „  21  December,  1469. 

6.  „  1  December,  1470, 

7.  „  14  July,  1472. 

8.  „  18  November,  1473. 

9.  „  13  February,  1474. 

10.  „  8  May,  1475. 

11.  „  10  November,  1475. 

12.  „  19  May,  1476. 

13.  „  28  November,  147G. 

Til.  bishop  of  London,  1,  2,  3,  4,  5,  6. 

W.  bishop  of  Ely,  1,  2,  3,  4,  6,  7,  8,  9, 
10,  11,  12,  13. 

George,  duke  of  Clarence,  1,  2,  3,  4,  5, 
G,  7,  8,  9,  10,  11,  12,  13. 

Richard,  earl  of  Warwick  and  Salis- 
bury, 1,  2,  3,  4,  5,  6. 

John,  carl  of  Oxford,  1,  2,  .3,  6. 

Henry,  earl  of  Essex,  1,  2,  3,  4,  5,  6, 
7,  8,  9,  10,  11,  12,  13. 

William  Bourghchicr,  knight,  1,  2,  3, 

4,  5,  7,  8,  9,  10,  11,  12,  13. 
William  Yelverton,  knight,  1,  2,  3,  4, 

5,  6. 

William  Laken,  1,  2,  3,  4,  5,  6,  7,  8,  9, 
10. 


7  Edward  IV.  Part  I.  m.  23f7. 

M  22r/. 

8  „  29r/, 

»  25c/. 

9  „  „  2\d. 
49  Henry  VT.  ni.  2Gd. 

12  Edward  IV.  Tart  1.  m.  28t7. 

13  „  „        „  20J. 

15         „  „        „  Z\d. 

„  27d. 

IG         „  „        „  29./. 

ft  ft       tt  27c/, 

John  Haward,  Howard,  knight,  1,  2, 

3,  4,  5,  7,  8,  9,  10,  11,  12,  13. 
Tliomas  Tyrcll,  knight,  1,  2,  3,  4,  5,  0, 

7,  8,  9,  10,  11,  12,  13. 
Thomas  Mongomerv,  knight,  1,  2,  3, 

4,  5,  7,  8,  9,  10,  11,  12,  13. 
Laurence  Rayni'ord,  Reynford,  knight, 

1,  2,  3,  4,  5,  7,  8,  9. 
William  Tyrlon,   knight,  1,  2,  3,  1, 

5,  6. 

Robert  Darcy,  knight,  1,  2,  3,  4,  5. 

Thomas  Coke,  knight,  1,  2. 

John  Ingolde.sby,  1,  2,  3,  4,  5,  7,  8,  0, 

10,  11. 
Thomas  Colt,  1. 
John  Greuc,  1,  2,  3,  4,  5,  6,  7. 


614 


Essex — cont. 


Roger  Ree,  1,  2,  3,  4,  5. 

 ,  knight,  7,  8,  9,  10,  11. 

Louis  John,  1,  2,  3,  4,  5,  6. 
Nicholas  Sharpe,  1,  2,  3  4,  5,  6. 
Waher  Writlell,  VVritell,  Wrytell,  1, 

2,  3,  4,  5,  7,  9. 
William  Grene,  1,  2,  3,  4,  5,  6,  7,  8,  9, 

10,  11,  12,  13. 
Matthew  Hay,  1,  2,  3,  4,  5. 

John  Herlyng,  Harlyug,  2,  3,  4,  5. 
Alured  Corneburgh,  3,  4,  5,  8,  9,  10, 

11,  12,  13. 
Thomas  Garnet,  4,  5. 
Geoffrey  Gate,  knight,  5. 
William  Tyrell  of  Beche,  knight,  6. 
Thomas  Urswyk,  6. 

 ,  knight,  8,  9,  10,  11,  12,  13. 

Richard,  duke  of  Gloucester,  7,  8,  9, 
10,  11,  12,  13. 


Anthony,  earl  of  Ryvers,  7,  8,  9,  10, 

11,  12,  13. 

Walter  Blount  of  Mountjoye,  knight, 
7,  8,  9. 

Thomas  Bryan,  7,  8,  9,  10,  11,  12,  13. 
Richard  Haute,  Hawte,  7,  8,  9,  10,  11, 

12,  13. 

John  Daynham,  Deuham,  of  Dynham, 
knight,  8,  9,  10,  11,  12,  13. 

Heniy  Lewys,  Lewes,  knight,  8,  9,  12, 
13. 

John  Sulyard,  8,  9,  10. 
Roger  Pbilpott,  9,  10,  11,  12,  13. 
Edward  Makwiliam,  9. 
John  Brewode,  10,  11,  13. 
William  Ingoldesby,  12,  13. 
William  Husee,  13. 


Gloucestershire. 


1.  Westminster,  8  February,  1468. 

■2.  „  27  November,  1469. 

3.  „  11  December,  1470. 

4.  „  20  December,  1470. 

5.  „  30  June,  1471. 

6.  „  24  February,  1473. 

7.  „  12  May,  1474. 

8.  „  24  November,  1474. 

9.  Banbury,  24  September,  1474. 

10.  Westminster,  5  May,  1475. 

11.  „  6  March,  1475. 

12.  „  10  November,  1475. 

13.  „  24  February,  1477. 

J.  bishop  of  Worcester,  1,  2,  3,  4,  13. 
Richard,  earl  of  Warwick  and  Salisbury, 
1,  2,  3,  4. 

William,  earl  of  Arundell,  1,  2,  3,  4,  5, 

6,  7,  8,  10,  11,  12,  13. 

William  Berkeley  of  Berkeley,  knight, 

1,  2,  4,  10,  11,  12. 
Ralph  Boteler  of  Sudeley,  knight,  1,  2, 

3,  4. 

John  Beauchamp  of  Powyk,  knight, 
1,  2,  3,  4,  5,  6,  7,  8,  10,  11,  12,  13. 

WaUer  Devereux  of  Ferrers,  knight, 
1,  2,  5,  6,  7,  8,  9,  10,  11,  12,  13. 

William  Herbert  of  Herbert,  knight,  1. 

Richard  Byngham,  knight,  1. 

Richard  Choke,  knight,  1,  2,  3,  4,  9. 

John  Boteler,  knight,  1,  2,  3,  4,  5,  6, 

7,  8,  10,  11,  12. 

John  Greviie,  knight,  1,  2,  3,  4,  5,  6, 
7,  8,  10,  11. 


7  Edward  IV.  Part  1.  ra.  21(1. 
9         „  „        „  21./. 

49  Henry  VI.  m.  2od. 

„  24c/. 

11  Edward  IV.  Part  1.  m.  29d. 

12  „  „         „  23d. 

14  „  „  „  27f/. 
,,  ,,  25r7. 
,,  24(/. 

15  ,,  „  ,,  31(/. 
,,  ,,  ,,  3ld. 
„          „         ,,  28./. 

16  „  „         „  26d. 

Thomas  Yongo,  1,  2,  3,  4,  5,  6,  10,  12, 
13. 

Richard  Beauchamp,  knight,  1,  2,  3,  4, 

5,  6,  7,  8,  10,  11. 
Thomas  Herbert,  1,  2. 
Maurice  Berkeley  of  Beverston,  knight, 

1,  2,  5,  6. 

William  Notyngham,  1,  2,  3,  5,  6,  8,  9, 

10,  11,  12,  13. 

 ,  knight,  4. 

Giles  Brigge,  1. 

William  Whityngdon,  1,  2. 

John  Gassy,  1,  2,  5,  6,  10,  11,  13. 

Walter  Langley,  1,  2. 

Roger  Kemys,  1,  2,  5,  6,  7,  8,  10,  11, 

12,  13. 
John  Gyse,  1,  2. 
John  Huggeford,  1,  2,  3,  4. 
Thomas  Lymeryk,  1,  2,  3,  4,  5,  6,  7, 

8,  10,  11,  12,  13. 


615 


Oloucestershire — cont. 


Richai'd,  duke  of  Gloucester,  2,  5,  6,  7, 

8,  9,  10,  11,  12,  13. 
Thomas,  viscount  Lisle,  2. 
Thomas  Bryan,  2,  3,  4. 
G.  archbishop  of  York,  3,  4. 
George,  duke  of  Clarence,  3,  4,  5,  6,  7, 

8,  9,  10,  11,  12,  13. 
John,  earl  of  Shrewsbury,  3,  4. 
John,  abbot  of  Cirencester,  3,  4. 
Jasper,  earl  of  Pembroke,  4 . 
William  Abrigge,  4. 
Thomas  Ursewyk,  knight,  5,  6,  7,  8, 

10,  11,  12,  13. 
Guy  Fairfax,  5,  6,  7,  8,  10,  11,  12,  13. 
Thomas  Baynham,  5,  6,  7,  8,  10,  11, 

12,  13. 

John  Twynehoo,  Twyuyho,  of  Ciren- 
cestrc,  5,  6,  7,  8,  10,  11,  12,  13. 

J.  bishop  of  Hereford,  6. 

E.  bishop  of  Carlisle,  6,  7,  8,  10,  11, 
12,  13. 

J.  bishop  of  Rochester,  G,  7,  8,  10,  11, 
12. 

Henry,  duke  of  Buckingham,  6. 
Antony,  earl  By  vers,  6,  7,  8,  10,  11, 
12,  13. 

Thomas  Arundel  1  (Matravers)  of  Ma- 
travers,  knight,  6,  7,  8,  10,  11,  12, 
13. 

Thomas  Grey  of  Grey,  son  of  the  queen, 

6,  7,  8,  11,  12. 

 ,  marquis  of  Dorset,  10,  13. 

Reginald  Grey  of  Wilton,  knight,  6. 
Richard  Fenes  of  Dacre,  knight,  6,  8, 

10,  11,  12,  13. 
Thomas,  abbot  of  Westminster,  6,  7. 
John  Nedeham,  knight,  6. 
Master  William  Dudley,  6. 
Thomas  Vaghan,  7,  8. 
 ,    treasurer    of    the  king's 

chamber,  6. 
John  Devereux,  knight,  6. 


Richard  Croft,  knight,  6,  7,  8,  10,  11. 
John  Ligon,  knight,  G. 
Thomas  Cornewayle,  knight,  G. 
John  Baskervile,  knight,  6. 
Master  Richard  INIartyn,  G,  7. 
William  Alyngton,  G,  7. 
John  Sulyard,  G,  7. 

Keiielm  Dycas,  Dicas,  Dygas,  G,  7,  8, 

10,  II,  12,  13. 
Geoffrey  Coitesmore,  6. 
Euslace  Whiteney,  6. 
Thomas  Brugge,  G. 
John  Welford,  6. 
John  Wynne,  6. 
Simon  Milburn,  6. 
Thomas  Monyngton,  6. 
Edward  Berkeley  of  Berkeley,  knight, 

7,8. 

Thomas  Lyttelton,  7,  8,  9,  10,  11,  12, 
13. 

Richard  Haule  the  elder,  7. 
William  Nayngham,  7. 
Th.  bishop  of  Hereford,  8,  10,  11,  12, 
13. 

Thomas,  abbot  of  Wynchecombe,  8,  10, 
11. 

John  Wyke-s  8,  10,  11,  12,  13. 
William    Hastynges    of  Ha.=tyngcs, 

knight,  9. 
Thomas  Stanley  of  Stanley,  knight,  9. 
John  Audclcy  of  Audeley,  knight,  9. 
John  Sutton  of  Dudley,  knight,  9. 
John  Dynham  of  Dynham,  9. 
Richard  Hastynges,  knight,  9. 
Henry  Boteler,  9. 

Edward  Lysle  [Grey]  of  Lysle,  knight, 
12,  13. 

John,  abbot  of  Wynchecombe,  12,  13. 
William  Berkeley  of  Barkelcy,  knight, 
13. 

John  Boteler,  knight,  13. 


Heuefordsiiire. 

1.  Westminster,  6  December,  1470.      49  Henry  VI.  m.  26rf. 


2. 

» 

20  December,  1470. 
24  February,  1473. 

)) 

„  24c?. 

3. 

>> 

12  Edward  IV.  Tart  1. 

ni. 

2Zd. 

4. 

» 

18  March,  1473. 

13 

>> 

5> 

)> 

22d. 

5. 

5  December,  1473. 

j» 

>> 

)> 

2Qd. 

6. 

)> 

12  May,  1474. 

14 

)j 

;> 

)) 

27d. 

7. 

» 

4  July,  1475. 

15 

>» 

>» 

)> 

30d. 

8. 

» 

19  August,  1475. 

» 

)» 

)» 

30d. 

9. 

10  November,  1475. 

>> 

»> 

?> 

26d. 

10. 

>' 

7  June,  1476. 

IG 

>> 

» 

>' 

kdd. 

610 


Herefordshire  —cont. 


J.  bishop  of  Hereford,  1,  2,  3,  4,  5,  6, 
George,  duke  of  Clarence,  1 ,  2,  3,  4,  5, 

6,  7,  8,  9,  10. 

Richard,  earl  of  Warwick  and  Salisbury, 
1,2. 

John,  earl  of  Shrewsbury,  1,  2. 
Richard  Chok,  knight,  1,  2. 
Thomas  Bryan,  1,  2, 
John  Barre,  knight,  1,  2,  5,  6,  7,  8,  9, 
10. 

John  Skydmore,  knight,  1,  2. 
Thomas  Fitz  Harry,  1,  2. 
Thomas  Brugge  of  Rosse,  1,  2. 
Thomas  Braynton,  1,  2,  4,  8,  9,  10. 
John  Wynne,  1,  2. 
Richard  Dalabere,  1,  2. 
Jasper,  earl  of  Pembroke,  2. 
Reginald  Grey  of  Wylton,  knight,  2,  3, 

4,  5,  6,  7,  8,  9,  10. 
E.  bishop  of  Carlisle,  3,  4,  6,  7,  8, 

9,10. 

J.  bishop  of  Rochester,  3,  4,  6,  7,  8,  9, 
10. 

Richard,  duke  of  Gloucester,  3,  4,  5,  6, 

7,  8,  9,  10. 

Henry,  duke  of  Buckingham,  3,  4. 
Antony,  carl  Ryvers,  3,  4,  G,  7,  8,  9, 
10. 

Thomas  Arundel),   or  Matravers,  of 

Mautravers,  knight,  3,  4,  6,  7. 
Thomas  Grey  of  Grey,  son  of  Elizabeth 

the  queen,  3,  4,  0. 

 ,  marquis  of  Dorset,  7,  8,  9,  10. 

Walter  Devereux  of  Ferrers,  knight, 

3,  4,  5,  6,  7,  8,  9,  10. 
Richard  Fenys  of  Dacre,  knight,  3,  4, 

7,  8,  9,  10. 
Thomas,  abbot  of  Westminster,  3,  4,  6. 


Thomas  Urswyk,  knight,  3,  4,  5,  6,  7, 

8,  9,  10. 
John  Nedeham,  knight,  3,  4. 
Guy  Fairfax,  3,  4,  5,  6,  7,  8,  9,  10. 
Master  William  Dudley,  3,  4. 
Thomas  Vaghan,  6,  7. 
Thomas   Vaughan,   treasurer  of  the 

king's  chamber,  3,  4. 
John  Devereux,  6. 

 ,  knight,  3,  4,  5,  7,  8. 

Richard  Croft,  knight,  3,  4,  5,  6,  7,  8. 
John  Lygen,  Lyngen,  knight,  3,  4,  5, 

6,  7,  10. 

Thomas  Cornewaile,  knight,  3,  4,  5, 
6,7. 

James  Baskervile,  knight,  3,  4,  5,  6, 

7,  8,  9,  10. 

Master  Richard  Martyn,  doctor  of  laws, 

3,  4,  6,  7,  10. 
William  Alyngton,  3,  4,  6,  7. 
John  Sulyard,  3,  4,  6,  7. 
Geoffrey  Coitesmore,  3,  4. 
Eustace  Whiteney,  3,  4,  5,  6,  7. 
Thomas  Brugge,  Brigges,     4,  5,  6,  7, 

8,  9,  10. 

John  Welford,  3,  4,  5,  6,  7,  9. 
John  Wynne,  3,  4,  5,  8,  10. 
Simon  Milburn,  Mylborn,  3,  4,  5,  6,  7. 
Thomas  Monyngton,  3,  4,  5,  G,  7,  10. 
Thomas  Littelton,  6,  7,  10. 
Richard  Haute,  7. 
Richard  Haute  the  elder,  6. 
William  Notyngham,  G,  7. 
Th.  bishop  of  Hereford,  7,  8,  9,  10. 
Richard  Gray,  son  of  the  ([ueen,  7,  9, 
10. 

 ,  knight,  8. 

Edward  Hopton,  8. 


Sertfordshire. 


1 .  Westminster,  4  December,  1470. 

2.  „         10  July,  1471. 

3.  „         12  July,  1473. 

4.  „         10  November,  1475. 

G.  bishop  of  York,  1 . 
Th.  bishop  of  London,  1. 
George,  duke  of  Clarence,  1,  2,  3,  4. 
John,  marquis  of  Montagu,  1. 
Richard,  earl  of  Warwick  and  Salis 
bury,  1. 

John  Wenlok  of  Wenlok,  knight,  1. 
William  Yelverton,  knight,  1. 
William  Laken,  1,  2,  3. 
John  Walter,  clerk,  1. 


49  Henry  VI.  m.  26c?. 
11  Edward  IV.  Part  1.  in.  28af. 
13       „  „        „  2\d. 

15       „  „        ,,  28</. 

John  Say,  knight,  1,  2,  3,  4. 
John  Leventhorpe  the  elder,  1, 
George  Danyell,  1. 
Ralph  Baude,  1, 
Thomas  Broket,  1,  2,  3,  4. 
William  Brayne,  1. 
Richard,  duke  of  Gloucester,  2,  3,  4. 
Antony,  earl  of  Ryvers,  2,  3,  4. 
Thomas  Bryan,  2,  3. 
„        „      knight,  4. 


617 


Hertfordshire — con  t. 


Ralph  Josselyn,  knight,  2,  3. 

Henry  Barley,  2,  3,  4. 

John  LevenLhorpe  the  younger,  2. 

John  Pulter,  2,  3,  4. 

John  ForteHcu,  2,  3,  4. 

John  Sturgeon,  2,  3,  4. 


W.  bishop  of  Ely,  3,  4. 
Thomas  Vaghan,  3. 
John  Forster.  3,  4. 
William  Druell,  8,  4. 
John  Couper,  3. 


Bunting  D  on  shire. 


1.  Westminster,  16  December,  1470. 


2. 
3. 
4. 

a. 

6. 
7. 


28  February,  1471. 
12  June,  1471. 
5  December,  1473. 
4  January,  1474. 
18  May,  1474. 
12  November,  1475. 


49  Henry  VI.  m.  25rf. 

„  23J. 
11  Edward  IV.  Part  1.  m. 
13       >>  )>  >> 

5J  5>  >> 

14 

15  ,, 


J.  bishop  of  Lincoln,  1,  2. 
George,  duke  of  Clarence,  1,  2,  3,  4,  5, 
6,  7. 

John,  marquis  of  Montagu,  1,  2. 
Richard,  carl  of  Warwick  and  Salis- 

buiy,  1,  2. 
John,  earl  of  Oxford,  1,2. 
Thomas  Billyng,  1,  2,  3,  4,  5,  6,  7. 
Richard  Pygot,  1,  2,  3,  4,  5,  6,  7. 
John  Broughton  the  younger,  1,  2. 
John  Stucle,  1,  2,  3,  4,  5,  6,  7. 
William  Drucll,  1,  2. 
William  Tayliard,  Taillard,  1,  2,  3,  4, 

5,  6,  7. 

John  Collan,  Golan,  1,  2,  3. 
Henry,  duke  of  Exeter,  2. 
J.  bishop  of  Ely,  3. 

Richard,  duke  of  Gloucester,  3,  4,  5, 
6,7. 


2M. 
19</. 
19rf. 
28rf. 
25d. 


Edmund,  earl  of  Kent,  3,  4,  5,  6,  7. 

John,  earl  of  Wiltshire,  3. 

William   Haslynges    of  Hastynges, 

knight,  3,  4,  5,  G,  7. 
Walter  Blount  of  Mountjoy,  knight, 

3,  4,  5,  6. 

Richard  Sapcote,  knight,  3,  4,  5,  6,  7. 

John  Knyvet,  3,  4,  5,  6. 

John  Sapcote,  esquire,  3,  4,  5,  6,  7. 

John  Forster,  3,  4,  5,  6. 

W.  bishop  of  Ely,  4,  5,  6,  7. 

Th.  bisliop  of  Lincoln,  4,  5,'G,  V. 

John,  abbot  of  Ramsey,  4,  5,  G,  7. 

Henry  Torkyngton,  3,  4,  5,  6,  7. 

Thomas  Burton,  4,  5,  6,  7. 

Robert  Tanfeld,  5,  6. 

Thomas  Louth,  6. 


Kent. 


1.  Westminster,  20  November,  1467. 

2.  „  8  July,  1469. 

3.  „  21  December,  1470. 

4.  '       „  28  January,  1471. 

5.  „  27  June,  1471. 

6.  „  18  July,  1471. 

7.  „  24  November,  1473. 

8.  „  15  January,  1474. 

9.  „  28  February,  1474. 
10.  „  5  August,  1474. 
IJ.  „  30  October,  1475. 

Thomas,  archbishop  of  Canterbury,  1, 
2.  3,  4,  5,  6,  7,  8,  9,  10,  11. 

Th.  bishop  of  London,  1,  2,  3,  4. 

George,  duke  of  Clarence,  1,  2,  3,  4,  5, 
6,  7,  8,  9, 10,  11. 


7  Edward  IV.  Part  1.  m.  22<;. 
9  ,,  ,,       ,,  2Zd. 

49  Henry  VI.  m.  24c?. 

„  22c?. 

11  Edward  IV.  Part  1.  m.  28c/. 

„  28c/. 

13       ,,  „  „  20c/. 

,,  „  19c/. 

)>  »  j»  18f/. 

1-1       „  „  „  27c/. 

15       „  „  „  30c/. 

Richard,  earl  of  Warwick  and  Salis- 
bury, 1.  2,  3,4. 

Richard,  earl  of  Ryvers,  1,  2. 

Edward  Neville  of  Bergevcnny,  knight, 
1,  2,  3,  4,  5,  6,  7,  8,  9,  10,  11. 


618 


Kent- 

William  Fenys  of  Say  of  Seel,  knight, 
1,2. 

Walter  Blounte  of  Mountjoye,  knight, 

1,  2,  5,  6,  7,  8,  9. 
William  Yelvcrton,  knight,  1,  2,  3,  4. 
Walter  Moile,  Moyle,  knight,  1,  2,  3,  4. 
William  Laken,  1,  2,  3,  4,  5,  6,  7,  8,  9, 

10. 

John  Fogge,  knight,  1,  2,  5,  6,  7,  8,  9, 
10,  11. 

John  Scotte,  knight,  1,  2,  5,6,  8,  9,  10. 
William  Pecche,  knight,  1,  2,  5,  6,  7, 

8,  9,  10. 

John  Colpepyr,  knight,  1,2,  5,  6,  7,  8, 

9,  10. 

William  Haute,  knight,  1,  2,  5,  6,  7,  8, 
9,  10,  11. 

John  Clerk,  1,  2,  3,  4,  5,  6,  7,  8,  9,  10, 
11. 

Thomas  Waghan,  Vaughan,  1,  2,  5,  6, 
7,8. 

 ,    treasurer     of    the  king's 

chamber,  9. 
John  Rowe,  a  Rowe,  Eewe,  1,  2,  3,  4, 

5,  6,  7,  8,  9,  10. 
John  Bromston,  Brompston,  Brymston, 

1,  2,  5,  6,  7,  8,  9,  10. 
Robert  Martyn,  1,  2,  3,  4,  9,  10,  11. 
William  Crofton,  1,  2. 
Th.  bishop  of  Rochester,  2,  5,  6. 
George  Nevylle,  2,  4,  9. 

 knight,  3,  5,  6,  7,  8,  10,  11. 

John  Guldeford,  knight,  3,  4. 
Richard  Frognall,  knight,  3,  4. 
John  Dygges,  3. 


■COnt. 

John  Bamme,  3,  4. 

John  Alfey,  Alfeygh,  3,  5,  6,  7,  8,  9, 
10,  11. 

William,  abbot  of  St.  Augustine's  by 

Canterbury,  4,  8,  9. 
George  Broun,  4. 
Richard  Bruyn,  4. 

Richard,  duke  of  Gloucester,  5,  6,  7,  8, 

9,  10,  11. 

William,  earl  of  Arundell,  5,  6,  7,  8,  9, 

10,  11. 

Henry,  earl  of  Northumberland,  6,  G,  7, 

8,  9,  10,  11. 
Henry,  earl  of  Essex,  5,  6,  7,  8,  9,  1 0, 

11. 

Antony,  earl  of  Rivers,  5,  6,  7,  8, 9, 10, 
11. 

Thomas  Cobhara  of  Cobham,  knight, 

5,  6,  7,  8,  9,  10,  II. 
Thomas  Brian,  Bryan,  5,  6,  7,  8,  9,  10. 
 ,  knight,  11. 

Thomas  Bourghchier,  knight,  5,  6,  7, 

8,  9,  10,  11. 
Henry  Ferrers,  knight,  5,  6,  7, 8,  9,  10, 

11. 

Humphrey  Starky,  5,  6,  7,  8,  9,  10. 
Roger  Appylton,  5,  6,  7,  8,  9,  10,  11. 
Edmund  Chertesey,  5,  6,  7,  8,  9. 
Robert  Symson,  6,  7. 
John  Greneford,  6. 

J.  bishop  of  Rochester,  7,  8,  9,  10,  11. 
John  Sapcote,  knight,  7. 
John  Grene,  7,  8,  9,  10. 
Richard  Lee,  10. 
John  Fynyeux,  11. 


Leices  ter  shire. 


1 .  Westminster,  8  May,  1467 


2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 


26  April,  1469. 

13  December,  1470. 

14  December,  1470, 
24  October,  1474. 
12  March,  1475. 

10  November,  1476. 


7  Edward  IV.  Part  1.  m.  24rf. 
9     ,,  „       „  23rf. 

49  Henry  VI.  m.  25d. 

„  25d. 

14  Edward  IV.  Part  1.  m.  26£?. 

15  „  „        „  3ld. 

■,,        »  26d. 


J.  bishop  of  Lincoln,  1,  2,  3,  4. 
George,  duke  of  Clarence,  1,  2,  3,  4,  5, 
0,  7. 

Richard,  earl  of  Warwick  and  Salisbury, 
1,2,3,4. 

William    Hastynges    of  Ilastynges, 

knight,  1,  2,  5,  6,  7. 
John  Bourghchier,  knight,  1,  2,  3,  4. 


William  Sutton,  knight,  master  of 
Burton  St.  Lazarus  of  Jerusalem,  1, 
2,  5,  6,  7. 

Robert  Danby,  knight,  1,  2,  3,  4. 

John  Nedeham,  knight,  1,  2,  3,  4,  5, 
6,  7. 

Thomas  Trussell,  knight,  1,  2. 
Richard  Neel,  Nele,  1,  2,  3,  4,  5,  6,  7. 


619 


Leices  tershwe — cont. 


Richard  Hastynges,  1,  2. 
Thomas  Palmer,  1,  2,  5,  6. 
John  Boyvyle,  1. 
John  Pulteney  of  Mystcrton,  1, 
Robert  Staunton,  1,  2,  4,  5,  G,  7. 
John  Markham,  knight,  2. 
William  Moton,  2,  6. 

„         „     ,  knight,  5,  7. 
Edward  Grey,  knight,  3,  4. 
John  Bellers,  3,  4. 
William  Fyldyng,  Fcldyng,  3,  4, 


Ralph  Wodford,  3,  4. 

Richard  Perwiche,  3,  4. 

Richard,  duke  of  Gloucester,  5,  6,  7. 

Thomas  Littelton,  5,  6,  7. 

Thomas  Barkeley,  knight,  5,  G,  7- 

William  Asslieby,  5,  6. 

Geoffrey  Sherard,  5,  6,  7. 

Thomas  Kebyll,  5,  6,  7. 

William  Grymmesby,  6,  7. 

Henry  Sotehyll,  7. 


Lincolnshire. 


The  Parts  of  Holland. 


1.  Westminster,  18  July,  1468. 

2.  Southampton,  3  May,  1470. 

3.  Westminster,  2G  November,  1470. 

4.  „         21  August,  1471. 

5.  „  20  November,  1472. 

6.  „  8  November,  147 1 . 

7.  „  10  November,  1475. 

J.  bishop  of  Lincoln,  1,  2,  3,  4. 
George,  duke  of  Clarence,  1,  3,  4,  5, 
6,  7. 

Richard,  carl  of  Warwick  and  Salisbury, 
1,3. 

J ohn,  earl  of  Northumberland,  marquis 

of  Montacue,  1,  2. 
Richard  Welles  of  Welles,  knight,  1. 
Richard  Fencs,  Fenys,  of  Ducre,  knight, 

1,  2,  3,  4,  5,  6,  7. 
Humphrey  Bourghchier,  Burglichier, 

of  Cromwell,  knight,  1,  2. 
John  Markham,  kniglit,  1,  2. 
Robert  Danby,  knight,  1,  2,  3. 
John  Nedeham,  knight,  1,  2,  3,  4,  5, 

6,7. 

Thomas  Burgh,  knight,  1,  2,  4,  5, 
6,  7. 

Richard  Pynchebek,  1,  2,  3,  4,  5,  6,  7. 
Richard  Welby,  1,  2,  4,  5,  6,  7. 
Thomas  Meers,  1. 
John  Bolles,  1,  2,  3,  4,  5,  6,  7. 
Leonard  Tliorneburgh,  1,  2,  4,  5,  G,  7. 
William  Payuell,  1,  2,  3,  4,  5,  6,  7. 


8  Edward  IV.  Part  1.  m.  29rf. 


10 


\5d. 


49  Henry  VI.  m.  25</. 

11  Edward  IV.  Part  1.  in.  27^/. 

12  „  „        „  24(/. 

14  „  „        „  2bd. 

15  „  „        „  26^7. 

Richard   Fendyk,  Fendike,   1,  2,  3, 
4,  5. 

Robert  Dokkyng,  1,  2,  3,  6,  7. 
Hugh  Tilney,  2. 
Brian  Talbot,  2,  4,  5,  6. 
Thomas,  prior  of  Spolilyng,  3. 
Thomas  Tototh,  Totoft,  3,  4,  5,  G,  7. 
Richard,   duke  of  Gloucester,  4,  5, 
6,  7. 

Henry,  earl  of  Northumberland,  4,  5, 
6,  7. 

William    Hastynges    of  Hastynges, 

knight,  4,  5,  6,  7. 
Thomas  Littilton,  Littelton,  4,  5,  6,  7. 
Richard  Hastynges,  5. 
Richard  Hastynges  of  Welles,  knight, 

4,  5,  6,  7. 
Robert  Katclyf,  knight,  4,  5,  G. 
Robert  Markham,  knight,  4,  5,  6. 
Reginald  Gayton,  4,  5,  6,  7. 
John  Taniworth,  4,  5. 
Thoma.s,  bishop  of  Lincoln,  5,  6,  7. 
John  Broun,  6. 


The  Parts  of  Kksteven. 


1.  Coventry,  19  February,  14G8. 

2.  Westminster,  18  July,  1468. 

3.  Southampton,  3  May,  1470. 

4.  Westminster,  7  September,  1470. 

5.  „         28  November,  1470. 


7  Edward  IV.  Part  1. 
49  Henry  VI.  lu.  2Gci. 


m.  22(1. 
„  29a'. 
„  15rf. 
„  14^/. 


620 


Lincolnshire — cont. 


6.  Westminster,  21  August,  1471. 

7.  „  18  February,  1472. 

8.  „  20  November,  1472. 

9.  „  28  May,  1473. 

10.  „  10  December,  1473. 

11.  „  18  May,  1474. 

12.  „  10  November,  1475. 

J.  bishop  of  Lincoln,  1,  2,  3,  5,  6. 
Richard,  earl  of  Warwick  and  Salisbury, 
1,  2,  5. 

Henry  Stafford,  knight,  1,  2,  3. 
Richard  Welles   of   Welles,  knight, 

I,  2. 

Humphrey  Bourghchier,  Burghchier, 
of  Cromwell,  knight,  1,  2,  3,  4,  5. 

William  Hastynges  of  Hastynges, 
knight,  1,  2,  3,  4,  6,  7,  8,  9,  10, 

II,  12. 

John  Markham,  knight,  1,  2,  3,  4,  5, 

6,  7,  8,  9,  10,  11,  12. 

Robert  Danby,  knight,  1,  2,  3,  4,  5. 
John  Nedehara,  knight,  1,  2,  3,  4,  5,  6, 

7,  8,  9,  10,  11,  12. 

Thomas  Burgh,  knight,  1,  2,  3,  4,  6, 

7,  8,  9,  10,  11,  12. 

Nicholas  Bowet,  knight,  1,  2,  3,  4,  5, 

6,  7,  8,  9. 

John  Busshe,  Bushe,  knight,  1,  2,  3,  4, 

9,  10,  11,  12. 
William  Husee,  Huse,  Husey,  1,  2,  3, 

4,  5,  6,  7,  8,  9,  10,  11,  12. 
William  Coote,  Cote,  1,  2,  4,  5,  G,  7, 

8,  9. 

Thomas  Wymbyssh,  1,  2,  4,  5,  6,  7,  8, 

9,  10,  11,  12. 
Richard  Walcote,  1,  2. 

Simon  Hareby,  Hardby,  1,  2,  3,  4,  6, 

7,  8,  9. 


11  Edward  IV.  Part  1.  m.  27J. 


12 
13 

14 
15 


24d. 
2ld. 
18d. 

28d. 
27d. 


John,  earl  of  Northumberland,  marquis 

Montacu,  2,  3. 
William  Stanlowe,  3. 
Henry  Grey,  knight,  4. 
John  Stanlowe,  4,  5,  10,  11. 
John  Walcote,  Walcotes,  4,  7,  8,  9, 10, 

11,  12. 

William  Dysney,  4,  6,  7,  8,  9,  10,  11. 
George,  duke  of  Clarence,  5,  6,  7,  8,  9, 

10,  11,  12. 
Richard,  duke  of  Gloucester,  6,  7,  8,  9, 

10,  11,  12. 
Henry,  earl  of  Northumberland,  6,  7, 

8,  9,  10,  11,  12. 
Richard  Fenys  of  Dacre,  knight,  6,  7, 

8,  9,  10,  11,  12. 
Thomas  Littilton,  Littelton,  G,  7,  8,  9, 

10,  11,  12. 
Richard  Hastynges,  of  Welles,  knight, 

6,  7,  8,  9,  10,  11,  12. 
Robert  Ratclyf,  8,  11. 

 ,  knight,  6,  7,  9,  10, 

Thomas  Boys,  6,  9,  10,  11,  12. 

Thomas  Edyes,  7,  8. 

Oliver  Seynt  John,  7,  8,  9,  10,  11. 

John  Faynell,  7,  8,  9,  10,  11,  12. 

Th.  bishop  of  Lincoln,  8,  9,  10,  11,  12. 

Leonard  Thorneburgh,  9,  10,  11. 

William  Fayrefax,  11. 

Robert  Tayleboys,  12. 


The  Parts  of  Lindsey. 


1.  Westminster,  4  July,  14G7. 

2.  Coventry,  14  February,  1468. 

3.  [Westminster,  18  July],  1468. 

4.  •  ,,  7  September,  1468. 
*5.            „          20  March,  1469. 

6.  Southampton,  3  May,  1470. 

7.  Westminster,  7  September,  1470. 
8. 
9. 

10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 


23  November,  1470. 
23  January,  1471. 
21  August,  1471. 

8  December,  1471. 
27  February,  1472. 
20  November,  1472. 

8  November,  1475. 


7  Edward  IV.  Part  1. 

m. 

23d. 

5)  J3 

55 

2ld. 

8  ,) 

55 

29d. 

55  55 

55 

2M. 

^           55  55 

55 

22d. 

10  „ 

55 

I4d. 

'5 

lid. 

49  Henry  VI.  m"26d. 

„  24c?. 

11  Edward  IV.  Part  1. 

m. 

27d. 

55  55 

55 

27d. 

55  it 

55 

2Gd. 

i2       „  „ 

55 

24d. 

15          55  5) 

55 

27d. 

*  ?  error  for  Kesteven. 


621 


Lincolnshire — con  t. 


J.  bishop  of  Lincoln,  1,  2,  3,  4,  5,  6,  7, 

8,  9,  10,  11. 

George,  duke  of  Clarence,  1,  2,  3,  4,  8, 

9,  10,  11,  12,  13,  14. 

Richard,  earl  of  Warwick  and  Salis- 
bury, 1,  2,  3,  4,  5,  8.  9. 
Eichard  Welles  of  Welles,  knight,  1, 

2,  3,  4,  5. 

Richard  Feuys,  or  Dacre,  of  Dacre, 
knight,  1,  2,  3,  4,  G,  8,  9,  10,  11,  12, 
13,  14. 

Humphrey  Bourghchier  of  Cromwell, 

knight,  1,  2,  3,  4,  5,  6. 
Robert  Danby,  knisrht,  1,  2,  3,  4,  5,  6, 

7,  8,  9. 

John  Nedcham,  knight,  1,  2,  3,  4,  5,  6, 

7,  8,  9,  10,  11,  12,  13,  14. 
Robert  Welles,  1,  2,  3,  4. 
Thomas  Burgh,  knight,  1,  2,  3,  4,  5,  6, 

7,  10,  11,  12,  13,  14. 
William  Skipwith,  knight,  1,  2,  3,  4, 

6,  7,  10,  11,  12,  13,  14. 
Thomas  Dymmok,  knight,  1,  2,  3,  4. 
Robert  Constable,  knight,  1,  2,  3,  4,  G. 
Thomas  Blount,  1. 

Thomas  Moigne,  1,  2,  3,  4,  6,  7,  10, 

11,  12,  13,  14. 
John  Wychecote,  Whycbecote,  1,  2,  3, 

4,  6,  7,  8,  9,  12,  13,  14. 
Thomas  Kyme,  1,  2,  3,  4,  G,  7. 
John  Topclyff,  1,  3,  6,  7. 
Arthur  Oruiesby,  1,  2,  3,  4. 
Robert  Sheffeld,  1,  2,  3,  4,  6,  7,  8,  9, 

10,  11,  12,  13,  14. 

Thomas  Fitzwilliam  the  younger,  1,  2, 

3,  4,  8,  9,  14. 
 ,  the  older,  8,  9. 

Thomas  Knyght  the  younger,  1,  2,  3, 

7,  8,  9,  11,  12,  13. 

Richard  Hausert  of  Ouresby,  1,  2,  3. 
John  Ayscogh,  Aiscugh,  2,  3,  4,  6. 
Thomas  TopclyfF,  2,  4. 
John,  carl  of  Northumberland,  marquis 
Montacu,  3,  4,  5,  6,  7. 


John  Markham,  knight,  3,  4,  5,  6. 
Richard  Spert,  4,  6,  7,  10,  11,  12,  13, 
14. 

Henry  Stafford,  knight,  5. 

William    Hastynges    of  llastynges, 

knight,  5,  7,  10,  11,  12,  13,  14. 
Nicholas  Bowet,  knight,  5. 
John  Busshe,  knight,  5. 
William  Husce,  5. 
William  Coote,  5. 
Thoniiis  Wymbyssh,  5. 
Richard  Walcotc,  5. 
Simon  Hareby,  5. 
John  Walcote,  6. 
Gervase  Clyfton,  knight,  6,  7. 
John  Burgh,  6,  7. 
John  Hatcliffe,  6. 

Thomas  Kyme  of  Laugton,  G,  7,  10, 

11,  12,  13. 

Humphrey  Bourghchier,  knight,  7. 
Richard  Hastynges  of  Welles,  7. 

 ,  knight,  10,  11,  12,  13,  14. 

John  Villcrs,  7. 
Charles  Angevyn,  8,  9. 
Richard  Griffith,  8,  9. 
Ralph,  abbot  of  St.  Mary,  Kirkostede, 
9. 

Richard,  duke  of  Gloucester,  10,  11, 

12,  13,  14. 

Henry,  earl  of  Northumberland,  10, 11, 

12,  13,  14. 

Thomas  Littilton,  10,  11,  12,  13,  14. 
Robert  Ralclil!",  knight,  10,  11,  14. 
12,  13. 

Thomas  Kyme  of  Frysuey,  10,  11,  12, 

13,  14. 

Robert  Taylboys,  U,  12,  13. 
Marmaduke  Constable,  Cunstahle,  12, 
13. 

Th.  bishop  of  Lincoln,  13,  14. 


Middlesex. 


1.  Westminster,  17  January,  1471. 

2.  „  28  January,  1471. 

3.  „  29  September,  1472. 

4.  „  18  December,  1473. 
6.  „  26  December,  1474. 
6.          „  10  November,  1475. 

Th.  archbishop  of  Canterbury,  1,  2,  3, 
4,  5,  6. 

G,  archbishop  of  York,  1,  2. 


49  Henry  VI.  m.  24rf. 

„  24rf. 

12  Edward  IV.  Part  1.  m.  27(1. 

13  „  „  „  19rf. 

14  „  „  „  24rf. 

15  „  ,,  ,,  28(1. 

Th.  bishop  of  London,  1,  2. 
J.  bishop  of  Exeter,  1,  2. 
George,  duke  of  Clarence,  1, 2, 3,  1,  o,  G. 


622 


Middlesex — cont. 


Richard,  earl  of  Warwick  and  Salisbury, 
1,2. 

Thomas,  abbot  of  St.  Peter's,  West- 
minster, 1,  2. 

John,  prior  of  St.  John  of  Jerusalem, 
1,2. 

William  "Yelverton,  knight,  1,  2. 
William  Laken,  1,2. 
Henry  Trowyk,  1,  2. 
Thomas  Provvyk,  1,  2,  4,  5,  6. 
William  Essex,  1,  2,  3,  4,  5,  6. 
William  Yorke,  1,  2. 
Thomas  Porthalyn,  1,  2. 
Thomas  Wyndesore,  1 ,  2,  6. 
William  Mulsoo,  I,  2,  3,  4,  5,  6. 
William  Chadworth,  2. 


II.  bi.shop  of  Bath  and  Wells,  3,  4, 
5,  6. 

Richard,  duke  of  Gloucester,  3,  4, 
5,  6. 

John  Straunge  of  Straunge,  knight,  3, 

4,  5,  G. 

Thomas   Vaghan,  treasurer    of  the 

king's  chamber,  3,  4,  5,  6. 
Roger  Ree,  knight,  3,  4,  5. 
Robert  Grene,  knight,  3. 
John  Eltheryngton,  EIryngtou,  3,  4, 

5,  6. 

Thomas  Ive,  3,  4,  5,  6. 
Robert,  prior  of  St.  John  of  Jerusalem, 
5. 

Robert  Forster,  6. 


1. 

2. 

8. 

4. 

5. 

6. 

7, 

8. 

9. 

10. 

11 


Norfolk. 

Westminster,  12  February,  1469.    8  Edward  IV.  Part  1.  m.  25d. 


16  February,  1470. 
10  December,  1470. 
20  June,  1471. 
23  November,  1472. 
2  December,  1473. 
15  February,  1474. 
18  May,  1474. 
10  November,  1475. 
26  May,  1476. 
30  June,  1476. 


0       ,,  ,,  „  2lf/. 

49  Henry  VI.  m.  25d. 

11  Edward  IV.  Part  1.  m.  28d. 


12 
13 

14 
15 
16 


24t/. 
20d. 
18d. 
28d. 
25d. 
2M. 
28d. 


W.  bishop  of  Norwich,  1,  2,  3,  4. 
W.  bishop  of  Ely,  1,  2,  4,  5,  6,  7,  8,  9, 
10,  11. 

George,  duke  of  Clarence,  1,  2,  3,  4,  5, 

6,  7,  8,  9,  10,  11. 

John,  duke  of  Norfolk,  1,  2,  3,  4,  5,  6, 

7,  8,  9. 

John,  duke  of  Suffolk,  1,  2,  3,  4,  5,  6, 

7,  8,  9,  10,  11. 

Richard,  earl  of  Warwick  and  Salisbury, 
1,  2,  3. 

Henry,  earl  of  Essex,  1,  2,  3,  4,  5,  6,  7, 

8,  9,  10,  11. 

John,  carl  of  Northumberland,  marquis 

of  Montagu,  1,  2,  3. 
Antony  Wydeville  of  Scales,  knight,  earl 

of  Ryvcrs,  1,  2,  4,  5,  6,  7,  8,  9,10,  11. 
Thomas  Bilivug,  1,  2,  3,  i,  5,  u,  7,  8,  9, 

10,  11. 

William  Yelverton,  knight,  1,  2,  3,  4, 

5,  6,  7,  8,  9,  10,  11. 

Richard  Pygot,  1,  2,  3,  4,  5,  6,  7,  8,  9, 
10,  11. 

John  Howard,  of  Howard,  knight,  1,  2, 

4,  5,  6,  7,  8,  9,  10,  11. 
Richard  Harccouj  t,  knight,  1,  2,  4,  5, 

6,  7,  8. 


William  Calthorpe,  knight,  1,  2,  3,  4, 

5,  6,  7,  8. 

Robert  Wyngfeld,  Wynkefeld,  knight, 
1,  2,  4,  5,  6,  7,  8,  9,  10,11. 

John  Paston,  knight,  1,  2,  3. 

Edmund  Wychyngham,  1,  2. 

John  Knyvet,  i,  2,  3. 

John  Wykes,  1,  2. 

William  Knyvet,  1 ,  2,  6,  7,  8. 
„  „      knight,  9. 

Williimi  Paston,  1,  2,  3,  6,  7,  8. 

John  Fyucham,  1,  2,  3,  4,  5,  6,  7,  8, 
9,  10,  11. 

William  Skipwith,  1,  2. 

John  Twyer,  1,  2,  4,  5,  6,  7,  8. 

William  Lumuour,  1,  2,  6,  7,  8. 

Henry  Spilman,  Spylman,  1,  2,  3,  4,  5, 

6,  7,  8,  9,  10,  11. 

Roger  Townesend,  1 ,  2,  3,  4,  5,  6,  7,  8, 

9,  10,  11. 
James  Arblaster,  1 2. 
Humphrey  Bourghchier  of  Cromwell, 

knight,  2. 
Humphrey  Bourghchier,  knight,  2. 
Thomas  IJanyell,  2,  7. 
John,  carl  of  Oxford,  3. 


623 


Norfolk — eont. 


Richard,  duke  of  Gloucester,  4,  5,  G,  7, 

8,  9,  10,  11. 
Henry,  earl  of  Northumberland,  4,  5,  G, 

7,  8,  9,  10,  11. 
Edmund,  earl  of  Kent,  4,  5,  6,  7,  8,  9, 

10,  11. 

Jolin  Hevenynghara,  knight,  4,  5,  6, 
7,  8. 

Tliomas  Wyngfeld,  knight,  4, 
William  Brandon,  knight,  4,  5,  6,  7,  8. 
Richard  Suthwell,  Sowthwell,  4,  5,  6, 
7,  8,  9,  10,  11. 


Th.  bisliop  of  Lincoln,  5,  G,  7,  8,  9, 
10,  11. 

Henry  Gray,  knight,  5,  6,  7,  8. 
Siir.ou  Hareby,  5.  | 

J.  bishop  of  Norwich,  6,  7,  8,  9,  10, 
11. 

John  Jenney,  6,  7,  8. 

Henry  Heydon,  G,  7,  8,  9,  10,  11. 

Ralph  Wyloughby,  8. 

John  Hasty nges,  9,  10,  11. 

Thomas  Howard,  esquire,  10,  11. 

John  RadclyfE  of  Fitz  Walter,  11. 


Nor  thamptonshire. 


1.  Westminster,  16  November,  1467. 

2.  „  16  Marcli,  1168. 

3.  Dogmer.sfield,  8  April,  1 169. 

4.  Westminster,  20  August,  1 169. 

5.  „  12  July,  1170. 

6.  „  16  November,  1470. 

7.  „         14  December,  1 170. 

8.  „  28  February,  1471. 

9.  „         28  May,  1 172. 

10.  „         4  April,  1473. 

11.  „  10  November,  1475. 

12.  „  15  June,  1176. 

13.  Buekdcn,  8  August,  1476. 

14.  Westminster,  15  November,  1476. 

15.  „         4  February,  1477. 

J.  bishop  of  Lincoln,  1,  2,  3,  4,  5,  6, 
7,  8. 

George,  duke  of  Clarence,  i,  2,  3,  4, 

6,7,  8,  9,  10,  11,  12,  13,  14,  15. 
Richard,  earl  of  Warwick  and  Salisbury, 

I,  2,  3,  4,  6,  7,  8. 

Edmund,  earl  of  Kent,  1,  2,  3,  4,  5,  9, 

10,  11,  12,  13,  14,  15. 
Richard,  earl  of  Ryvers,  1,  2,  3. 
AVilliam  do  la  Zouchc,  knight,  1 , 
William    Hastynges    of  Hastynges, 

knight,  1,  2,  3,  4,  5,  9,  10,  II,  12, 

13,  14,  15. 
Robert  Danby,  knight,  1,  2,  3,  4,  5,  6, 

7,  8. 

Tiiomas  Byllyng,  Billyng,  1,  2,  3,  4,  5, 

6,  7,  8,  9,  10,  11,  12,  13,  14,  15. 
John  Nedeham,  knight,  1,  2,  3,  4,  5, 

G,  7,  8,  9,  10,  11,  12,  13,  14,  15. 
William  Catesby,  knight,  1,  2,  3,  4,  6, 

II,  12,  13,  14,  15. 

Thomas  Tresham,  knight,  1,  2,  5,  6, 

7,  8. 

Walter  Mauntell,  knight,  1,  2,  3,  4,  5, 
6,  7,  8,  9,  10,  12,  13. 


7  Edward  IV.  Part  1. 

m. 

20d. 

)) 

30(/. 

^         »  )> 

>» 

2  id. 

J)  )> 

>> 

22d. 

10  „ 

» 

14  rf. 

49  Henry  VI.  m.  2Gd. 

„           „  25tZ. 

,,            ,,  2Zd. 

12  Edward  IV.  Part  1. 

ni. 

28  r/. 

13 
15 
16 


22(7. 
28(/. 
29(7. 
27f/. 
26(/. 
2Grf. 


Ralph  Hastynges,  1,  2,  3,  4,  5. 

knight,  9,    10,  11, 
12,  13,  14,  15. 
John  Catesby,  1,6,  7,  8. 
„  „     Serjeant  at  law,  2,  3,  4, 

5,  9,  10,  11,  12,  13, 
14,  15. 

Henry  Grenc,  1. 

Guy  Wolston,  1,  5,  9,  10,  11,  12,  13, 
14,  15. 

John  IJyne,'Dyvc,  1,  2,  3,  4,  5,  6,  7,  8, 
.9,  10. 

Robert  Tanfeld,  1,  2,  3,  4,  6,  7,  8,  10. 
„  „        the  elder,  11,  12,  13, 

14,  15. 

Robert  Isham,  1,  2,  3,  4,  5,  9,  10. 
John  Kltonhede,  1,  2,  3,  4,  5,  9,  10, 

13,  14,  15. 
Roger  Salysbury,  Salesbury,  1,  2,  3,  4, 

5,  6,  7,  8,  9,  10. 
Heury  Iluddilston,  Huddclston,  1,  2, 

3,  4.  ^ 

Henry  Skynarton,  1,  2,  3,  4. 
John  Stafford,  kuiglit,  earl  of  Wiltshire, 
2,  3,  4,  5,  9,  10. 


624 


Northamptonshire —  cont. 


Antony  Grey  of  Rutliyn,  knight,  3, 
4,  5,  9,  10,  11,  12,  13,  14,  15. 

Thomas  Wake,  4,  10. 

Eichard  Middelton,  6,  7,  8,  11,  12,  13, 
14,  15. 

John  Barnard,  Bernard,  7,  8. 

Henry,  duke  of  Exeter,  8. 

Richard,  duke  of  Gloucester,  9,  10,  11, 

12,  13,  14,  15. 
Antony,  ear]  of  Ryvers,  9,  10. 
Thomas  Littelton,  9,  10,  11,  12,  13, 

14,  15. 

William  Newenham,  9,  10,  11,  12,  13, 
14,  15. 


John  Hvdcotes,  Holcotes,  9,  10. 
William  Chamber,  Chaumbre,  9,  10. 
Nicholas  Gryffyn,  11,  12,  13,  14,  15. 
Richard  Emson,  11,  12,  13,  14,  15. 
Simou  Burton,  11,  12,  13,  14. 
Richard  Pemberton,  12. 
Robert  Pemberton,  13,  14,  15. 
Richard  Wodevyle,  Wydevyle,  knight, 

14,  15. 
Roger  Wake,  15. 
William  Tanfeld,  15. 


Nor  thumberla  nd. 


1.  Westminster,  8  December,  1471. 

2.  „         10  November,  1475. 

George,  duke  of  Clarence,  1,  2. 
Richard,  duke  of  Gloucester,  1,  2. 
Henry,  earl  of  Northumberland,  1,  2. 
Ralph  Greystoke  of  Greystoke,  knight, 
1,  2. 

Thomas  Lomley  of  Lomley,  knight, 
1,2. 

Robert  Ogle  of  Ogle,  knight,  1,  2. 
Richard  Nele,  1,  2. 


11  Edward  IV.  Part  1.  m.  21d. 
15     ,,  „       „  2%d. 

William  Jenney,  1,  2. 
John     Wydryngton,  Wytheryngton, 
1,2. 

John  Lylborne,  Lybourn,  the  elder, 
1,2. 

Roger  Herne,  1,  2. 
Thomas  Moresley,  1. 
John  Cartyngton,  1,  2. 
John  Agyrston,  2. 


No  TTINGHAMSHIRE. 


1.  Westminster,  19  November,  1468. 

2.  „         20  November,  1468. 

3.  Southampton,  3  jVTay,  1470. 

4.  Westminster,  7  September,  1470. 


5. 

6. 

7. 

8. 

9. 
10. 
II. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 


9  November,  1470. 
16  November,  1470. 

11  July,  1471. 

8  December,  1471. 
16  Eebruary,  1472. 
24  June,  1473. 
18  November,  1473. 

12  August,  1474. 
26  August,  1475. 

10  November,  1475. 

11  June,  1476. 


8  Edward  IV.  Part  1.  m.  26^/. 
„  „        ,,  26d. 

10  „  „        „  Ud. 

„  „         „  14«?- 

49  Henry  VI.  m.  27d. 

„  26d. 

11  Edward  IV.  Part  1.  m.  28d. 
„  27d. 
„  26d. 
„  21d. 

„  „  18d. 
„        „  2Gd. 

„  30d. 
„         „  28d. 
„  28d. 


13 

14 
15 

16 


G.  archbishop  of  York,  1,  2,  5,  6. 

George,  duke  of  Clarence,  1,  2,  5,  6,  7, 
8,  9,  10,  11,  12,  13,  14,  15. 

Richard,  earl  of  Warwick  and  Salis- 
bury, 1,  2,  5,  6. 

John,  earl  of  Shrewsbury,  1,  2,  3,  4,  7, 
8,  9. 

Henry  Gray  of  Codnor,  knight.  1,  2,  3, 
4,  7,  8,9,  10,  11,  12,  13,  14,  15, 


Humphrey  Bourghchier  of  Cromwell, 

knight,  1,  2,  3,  4. 
William     Hustynges    of  Hastynges, 

knight,  1,2,3,  4,7,  8,  9,  10,11,12, 

13,  14,  15. 
Robert  Danby,  knight,  1,  2,  3,  4,  5,  6, 

7,  8,  9. 

Richard  Byngham,  knight,  1,  2,  3,  4, 
5,  6,  7,  8,  9,  10,  11,  12,  13,  14. 


625 


Nottinghamshire — cont. 


John  Nedeliam,  knif^ht,  1,  2,  3,  4,  5,  G, 

7,  8,  9,  10,  11,  12,  13,  14. 
Eobert  Clyfton,  kuight,  1,  2,  3,  4,  5,  6, 

7,  8,  9,  10,  11,  12,  13,  14,  15. 
Thomas  Burgh,  knight,  1,  2,  3,  4,  7,  8, 

9,  10,  11,  12,  13,  14,  15. 

Robert  Markham,  knight,  1,  2,  G,  9,  10, 

11,  12,  13,  14,  15. 
Robert  Strelley,  knight,  1,  2,  5,  G. 
John  Stanhope,  1,  2,  9,  14,  15. 
William  Babyngton,  1,  2,  3,  4,  7,  8,  10, 

11. 

Richard  Willughby,  Wilughby,  1,  2,  3, 

4,' 5,  6,  7,  11. 
Gervase  Clyfton,  esquire,  1,  2,  3,  4,  5, 

C,  7,  8,  9,  10,  11,  12,  13,  14,  15. 
Richard  Sutton,  1. 
Thomas  Neville  of  Rolleston,  1. 
William  Meryngez,  1,  3,  4,  8,  9,  15. 
Thomas  Molyneux,  1,  2,  3,  4,  5,  G,  9, 

10,  11,  12,  13,  14,  15. 

John  Mcthclay,  1,  2,  11,  12,  13,  14. 
John  Nevyll,  1,  2,  3,  8,  9. 


Thomas  Neville  of  Suthlevcrton,  1,  2, 

6,  9,  11,  12,  13. 
William  Wentworth,  2,  3,  4,  7,  8,  9, 

10,  11,  12,  13. 
Henry  Perpoynt,  3,  4. 
.  .  . ,  knight,  7,  8,  9. 
Robert  Sutton,  3,  4,  7. 
.  . .,  of  Arom,  8,  9,  10,  11,  12,  13. 
John  Saynton,  3,  4. 
John,  marquis  of  Montagu,  5,  6. 
Richard  Byngham,  5,  G. 
Richard,  duke  of  Gloucester,  7,  8,  9, 

10,  11,  12,  13,  14,  15. 

Thomas  Littelton,  knight,  7,  8,  9,  10, 

11,  12,  13,  14. 
William  Notyngham,  9. 

Th.  bishop  of  Lincoln,  10,  11,  12.  13. 
14,  15. 

Thomas  Nevyll,  10,  14,  15. 
John  Babyngton,  12,  13,  11,  15. 
Richard  Hastynges  of  AVclles,  knight. 
13,  14,  15. 


OXFORDSriIRE. 


1.  Coventry,  17  February,  14G8. 

2.  Westminster,  21  Oclober,  1468. 

3.  „  14  November,  14G8. 

4.  „  3  December,  14G8. 

5.  „  8  May,  1169. 

6.  „  12  July,  1470. 

7.  „  14  November,  1470. 

8.  „  12  June,  1471. 

9.  „  3  December,  1473. 

10.  „  28  February,  1474. 

11.  „  10  November,  1475. 

12.  „  31  December,  1475. 

13.  „  4  July,  1476. 

G.  archbishop  of  York,  1,  2,  3,  4,  5,  7. 

J.  bishop  of  Lincoln,  1,  2,  3,  4,  5,  6,  7. 

John,  duko  of  Suffolk,  1,  2,  3,  4,  6,  7, 
8,  9,  10,  11,  12,13. 

Richard,  earl  of  Warwick  and  Salis- 
bury, 1,  2,  3,  4,  5,  7. 

Ralph  Boteler  of  Sudeley,  knight,  1,  2, 

3,  5,  G,  7. 

Richard   Byngham,  knight,  1,  2,  3, 

4,  5. 

Richard  Chok,  Chokke,  knight,  1,  2,3, 

4,  5,  6,  7. 

Robert  Harecourt,  knight,  1,  2,  3,  4, 

5,  6. 

Walter  Mauntell,  knight,  1,  2,  3,  4,  5, 
11,  12,  13. 


7  Edward  IV.  Part  1.  m.  22(1. 

8  „  „  „  29./. 
„  „  „  2(hl. 
„             „       ,,  25f/. 

9  „  „       „  2-Ml. 

10  „  „  „  Ud. 
49  Henry  VI.  m.  27^/. 

11  Edward  IV.  Tart  1.  m.  29^?. 
13         „  „       „  2U.7. 

„  „       „  18f/. 

15         „  „       „  28f/. 

„  27r/. 


IG 


2M. 


Richard  Quartcrmayns,  1,  2,  3,  1,  5,  G, 

8,  9,  10,  11,  12,  13. 
William  Marmyon,  1,  2,  3,  4,  5,  G, 

8,  9. 

Richard  Dan  vers,  1,  2,  3,  4,  5,  0,  7,  8, 

9,  10,  11,  12,  13. 

John  Stokes,  1,  2,  3,  4,  5,  7. 
V/'illiani  Huggeford,  Higgofeid,  1,  2,  3, 
■J,  5. 

Thomas  Stoner,  1,  2,  3,  4,  5,  G,  7,  8,9 
10. 

Henry  Raynford,  1,  2,  3,  4 
John  Anne,  1,  2,  3,  4,  5. 
Peter  ]\Iarmyon,  2,  3,  7. 
Richard  Harecourt,  knight,  3,  4,  9,  10, 
11,  12,  13. 


y  96186. 


B  R 


626 

Oxfordshire — cont. 


John  Barantyne,  Barentyne,  3,  4,  5. 
Kichard  Fowler,  4,  5,  6,  8,  9,  10,  1], 

12,  13. 
John,  duke  of  JSIorfolk,  5. 
John  Langeston,  Langstone,  f>,  8,  9, 10, 

11,  12,  13. 
Eichard,  duke  of  Gloucester,  6,  8,  0, 

10,  11,  12,  13. 
Thomas  Bryan,  Brian,  6,  7. 
Humphrey  Forster,  6,  8,  9,  10,  11,  12, 

13. 

Richard  Halle,  6,  8,  9,  10, 13. 
George,  duke  of  Clarence,  7,  8,  9,  10, 

11,  12,  13. 


John,  abbot  of  Osney,  7. 
Thamas  Urswyk,  knight,  8,  9,  10,  11, 
12,  13. 

Guy  Fairfax,  8,  9,  10,  11,  12,  13. 

Richard  Crofte,  12,  13. 

.  .  .,  .  .  .,  the  younger,  8,  9, 10. 

John  Straunge  of  Straunge,  knight,  9, 

10,  11,  12,  13. 
Thomas  Croft,  9,  10. 
Th.  bishop  of  Lincoln,  10,  11,  12,  13. 
Thomas  Danvers,  10. 
William  Danvers,  10,  11,  12,  13. 


ToPFN  OF  Oxford. 

1,  Westminster,  21  February,  1471.     49  Henry  VI.  m.  22d. 

2.  „  30  November,  1472.  12  Edward  IV.  Part  1.  m.  24rf. 
2.  „  4  December,  1474.  14  „  „  „  24J. 
4.*  Oxford,  5  April,  1475.                 15        „             „       „  31c?. 


G.  archbishop  of  York,  chancellor  of 
the  University,  1. 

George,  duke  of  Clarence,  1. 

John,  duke  of  Suffolk,  1. 

Richard,  earl  of  Warwick  and  Salis- 
bury, 1. 

Thomas  Chaundeler,  clerk,  1. 

Thomas  Stevens,  clerk,  1. 

Richard  Cliok,  knight,  1. 

Tliomas  Brian,  1 . 

John  Dobbus,  Dobbys,  Dolbus,  2,  3,  4. 

.  . .,  mayor  of  the  town,  1. 

William  Marmyon,  1,2. 

Peter  Marmyon,  1. 

Thomas  Walrond,  1. 

John  Denton,  1,  2. 

Richard  Spragot,  1,  2,  3,  4, 

John  Clerk,  1,2,3,  4. 


William  Dag  vile,  1. 

. .  . ,  maj'or  of  the  town,  2,  3,  4. 

John  Seman,  1,  2,  3,  4. 

Master  Thomas  Chaundeler,  chancellor 

of  the  University,  2,  3,  4. 
Thomas  Ursev/yke,  knight,  2,  3,  4. 
Guy  Fayrefax,  2,  3,  4. 
Richard  Quartermayns,  Quatermayns, 

2,  3,  4. 
Richard  Fowler,  2,  3,  4. 
William  Danvers,  3,  4. 
Th.  bishop  of  Lincoln,  4. 
Thomas  Danvers,  4. 
Richard  Halle,  4. 
Thomas  Denton,  4. 
John  Goylyn,  4. 


BUTLANDSHIRE. 


1.  Salisbury,  23  April,  1470. 

2.  Westminster,  30  November,  1470. 
8,  „  28  November,  1473. 

4.  „  5  December,  1473. 

5.  „  10  November,  1475. 

6.  „  25  November,  1476. 

J.  bishop  of  Lincoln,  1,  2. 

William   Ilastynges    of  Hastynges, 

knight,  1,  3,  4,  5,  6. 
Robert  Danby,  knight,  1,  2, 


10  Edward  TV.  Part  1.  m.  i5<f. 

49  Henry  VI.  m.  26(/. 

13  P:dward  IV.  Part  1.  m.  2Qd. 

„  20d. 

15  „  „        „  26c?. 

16  „  „        „  21d. 

flohn  Nedeham,  knight,  1,  2,  3,  4,  5,  6. 
Thomas  Berkeley,  knight,  1,  2,  3,  4. 
Brian  Talbot,  1,  3,  4,  5,  6. 
Robert  Fenne,  1. 


*  For  the  University, 


627 


Rutlandshire  —cont. 


Thomas  Flore,  Floure,  1,  2. 
John  Boy vyle,  ] . 
William  Hvisec,  1,  3,  4,  5,  6. 
George,  duke  of  Clarence,  2,  3, 4, 5,  6. 
Eichard,  earl  of  Warwick  and  Salis- 
bury, 2. 
Thomas  Metlcy,  2. 
Simon  Burton,  2,  3,  4. 
\Villiam  Palmer,  2,  4,  5,  6. 


Richard  Calcote,  2. 

Til.  bishop  of  Lincoln,  3,  4,  5,  6. 

Richard,  duke  of  Gloucester  3,  4,  5,  6. 

Thomas  Littelton,  3,  4,  5,  6. 

Richard  Sapcote,  knight,  3,  4,  6. 

Everard  Dygby,  3,  4. 

John  Dall,  Dale,  5,  G. 

David  Malpas,  5,  6. 

Henry  Sotlaehyll,  5,  6. 


Shropshire. 


1.  Westminster,  1  December,  1468. 

2.  „  27  November,  I4G9. 

3.  „  G  December,  1470. 

4.  „  20  July,  1471. 

5.  „  24  February,  1473. 

6.  „  8  November,  1473. 

7.  „  12  May,  1474. 

8.  „  5  August,  1474. 

9.  „  21  August,  1475. 
10.  „  10  November,  1475, 

J.  bishop  of  Coventry  and  Lichfield,  1, 
2,  3,  4,  5,  6,  7,  8,  9,  10. 

George,  duko  of  Clarence,  1,  2,  3,  4, 
5,  6,  7,  8,  9,  10. 

Eichard,  earl  of  Warwick  and  Salis- 
bury, 1,  2,  3. 

William,  earl  of  Arundcll,  1,  2,  4,  5,  6, 

^  7,  8,  9,  10. 

John,  earl  of  Shrewsbury,  1,  2,  3,  4,  5. 
John  Straunge  of  Straungc,  knight,  1, 

2,  4,  5,  6,  7,  8,  9,  10. 
John  Audeley  of  Audeley,  knight,  1, 

2,  4,  5,  G,  7,  8,  9,  10. 
Jolin  Sutton  of  Dudley,  knight,  1,  2,  4, 

5,  G,  7,  8,  9,  10. 
William  Bourghchier  of  Fitz  Wareyn, 

knight,  1. 
Eichard  Byngham,  knight,  1,  2. 
Richard  Chok,  knight,  1,  2,  3,  4. 
Thomas  Littelton,  1,  2,  4,  5,  6,  7,  8. 
. .  .,  knight,  9,  10. 

John  Leyghton,  Lcighton,  1,  2,  3,  4, 

5,  6,  7,  8,  9,  10. 
Humphrey  Blount,  1,  2,  3,  4. 

„  „      knight,  5,  G,  7,  8, 

9,  10. 

William  Ludlowc,  1,  2. 
Roger  Kynaston,  1,  2. 

„  „        knight,  4,  5,  6,  7,  8. 

Thomas  Acton,  1,  2,  3,  4,  5,  6,  7,  8,  9, 

10. 

Thomas  Herd,  1,  2,  3,  5,  6,  7,  8,  9,  10. 
Hugh  Stepulton,  1,  2,  4,  5,  G,  7,  8. 


8  Edward  IV.  Part  1. 
9 

49  Henry  VI.  m.  25f/. 

11  Edward  IV.  Part  1 

12  „  J, 

13  „ 
14 


15 


ra.  2od. 
„  21t/. 

m.  28f/. 
„  27r/. 
„  \M. 
„  27^. 
„  2GJ. 
„  ZOd. 
„  25rf. 


John  Lawley,  Lnuley,  1,  2. 
Ralph  Lee,  1,  2,  3. 

Thomas  Corbet  of  Legh,  1,  2,  4,  5, 
6,  7. 

Richard,  duke  of  Gloucester,  2,  4,  5, 

6,  7,  8,  9,  10. 
Thomas  Bryan,  3,  4. 
John  Burt!;h,  kuigiit,  3. 
Robert  Charleton,  3. 

Walter  Devereux  of  Ferrers,  knight,  4, 

7,  8,  9,  10. 

Richard  Corbet,  knight,  4,  5,  6. 
Eobert  Cresset,  4,  5,  6,  7,  8,  9. 
E.  bishop  of  Carlisle,  5,  7,  8,  9,  10. 
J.  bishop  of  Eochcster,  5,  7,  8,  9,  10. 
Henry,  duke  of  Buckingham,  5. 
Anthony,  earl  of  Eyvers,  5,  7,  8,  9,  IC. 
Thomas    Anindell     of  Mautravers, 

knight,  5,  7,  8,  9,  10. 
Thomas  Gray,  knight,  9. 
Thomas  Grey  of  Grey,  son  of  tho 

queen,  5,  7,  8,  10. 
Robert  Devereux  of  Ferrers,  kniglit, 

5,  6. 

Eichard  Fenya  of  Dacre,  knight,  5,  8. 
Thomas,  abbot  of  Westminster,  5,  7. 
Thomas  Ursewykc,  knight,  5,  G,  7,  8, 
9,  10. 

John  Nedeham,  knight,  5. 
Guy  Fairefax,  5,  G,  7,  8,  9,  10. 
William  Dudley,  clerk,  5. 
Thomas  Vaughan^  7,  8, 

I{  E  2 


62d 


Shropshire — cont. 


Thomas   Vaghan,  treasurer    of  the 

king's  chamber,  5. 
Richard  Martjn,  clerk,  doctor  of  laws, 

5,7. 

William  Alyngton,  5,  7. 
John  Sulyard,  5,  7. 
Geoffrey  Coytesmore,  5. 
"William  Yon^,  knight,  6,  7,  8. 


Richard  Crofte,  knight,  7,  8. 
Richard  Haute  the  elder,  7. 
Edward  Hopton,  8,  9,  10. 
Th.  bishop  of  Hereford,  9. 
William  Manweryng,  9. 
William  Mitton,  9,  10. 
Richard  Ludlawe,  knight,  10. 
Thomas  Corbette,  10. 


Somersetshire 


1.  Westminster,  27  October,  1468. 

2.  „  4  July,  1469. 

3.  „  15  November,  1469, 

4.  „  27  November,  1470. 

5.  „  8  June,  1472. 

6.  „  26  November,  1473, 

7.  „  17  November,  1473. 

8.  „     1     5  August,  1474. 

9.  „  24  November,  1474. 

10.  „  1  December,  1474. 

11.  Banbury,  24  September,  1474. 

12.  Westminster,  12  November,  1475. 
13-  „          6  June,  1476. 

14.  „  20  October,  1476. 

15.  „  23  November,  1476. 

W.  bishop  of  Winchester,  1,  2,  3,  4, 

5,  6,  7,  8,  9,  10,  12. 
R.  bishop  of  Bath  and  Wells,  1,  2,  3, 

5,  6,  7,  8,  9,  10,  12,  13,  14,  15, 
R.  bishop  of  Salisbury,  1,  2,  3,  4,  5,  6, 

7,  8,  9,  10,  12,  13,  14,  15. 
George,  duke  of  Clarence,  1,  2,  3,  4, 

5,  6,  7,  8,  9,  10,  11,  12,  13,  14,  15. 
Richard,  earl  of  Warwick  and  Salis- 
bury, 1,  2,  3,  4. 

John,  earl  of  Worcester,  1,  2,  3. 
John   Audeley  of  Audeley,  knight, 

1,  2,  3,  5,  6,  8,  9,  10,  11,  12,  13, 

14,  15. 

William  Stourton  of  Stourton,  knight, 
1,  2,  3,  4,  5,  6,  7,  8,  9,  10,  12,  13, 
14,  15. 

Humphrey  StafPord  of  Suthwyk,knight, 

earl  of  Devon,  1,  2. 
Walter  Moyle,  knight,  1,  2,  3,  4. 
Richard  Choke,  knighf,  1,  2,  3,  4,  5, 

6,  7,  8,  9,  10,  11,  12,  13,  14,  15. 
Thomas  Yongo,  1,  2,  3,  4, 
Theobald  Goi-gc-s  knight,  1,  2,  3. 
Thomas  Scyntraaure,  knight,  1,  2,  3, 

4. 

William  Courteuay,  knight,  1,  2,  3, 
Christopher  Worsley,  1,  2,  3, 
John  Cheyne  of  Pynne,  1,  2,  3,  4,  5, 
0,  7. 


8  Edwari  IV.  Part  1.  m.  28c?. 

9  ,,  „       „  23c?. 
,,           „       „  22d. 

49  Henry  VI.  m.  26tZ. 

12  Edward  IV.  Part  1.  m.  28eZ. 

13  „  „       „  20(1. 
„  19c?. 

14  „  „       „  26 J. 
„       „  25c?. 

„  25c?. 
„  24c?. 

15  „  „       „  29c?. 

16  „  „       „  29(7. 
„       „  2M. 

27c?. 

Henry  Hull,  1,  2,  3,  5,  6,  7. 
John  Sydenham,  1. 

John  Fitz James,  1,  2,  3,  4,  5,  6,  7,  8, 

9,  10,  12,  13,  15. 

John  Porter,  1,  2,  3,  4.  5,  6,  7,  8,  9, 

10,  12,  13,  14,  15. 

Robert  Stowell,  2,  3,  4,  5,  6,  7,  8,  9, 

10,  12,  13,  14,  15. 
Thomas,  viscount  Lisle,  3. 
John  Trevilian,  4,  8. 
William  Hody,  4,  6,  8,  9,  10. 
Thomas  Tremayll,  Tremayle,  4.  5,  6, 

7,  8,  9,  10. 
Richard,  duke  of  Gloucester,  5,  6,  7,  8, 

9,  10,  11,  12,  13,  14,  15. 

John  Oatesby,  5,  6,  7,  8,  9,  10,  12,  13. 
14.  15. 

William  Pawelett,  13,  14,  15. 
William  Paulet,  knight,  5,  6,  7,  8,  9, 

10,  12,  13,  14,  15. 

John  BykenhuU,  5,  6,  7,  8,  9,  10,  12, 

13,  14,  15. 
Roger  Dynham,  6,  7,  8,  9,  10. 
Henry  Burnell,  0,  7,  8,  9,  10. 
William  Paulett,  esquire,  8,  9,  10,  12. 
John,  prior  of  Bulhe,  9,  10,  12,  13,  14, 

15. 

Thomas  Wake,  10. 

William    Hastynges    of  Hastynges, 
knight,  11, 


629 

Somersetshire — cont. 


Thomas  Stanley  of  Stanley,  knight, 
II,  12. 

John  Sutton  of  Dudley,  knight,  11. 
Walter  Devereux  of  Ferrers,  knight, 
11. 

John  Dynham  of  Dynham,  knight,  11. 
Richard  Hastynges,  knight,  11. 
Thomas  Litelton,  II. 
William  jSTotyngham,  11,  12. 
Henry  Boteler,  11. 
William,  earl  of  Arundel  12. 


1. 

2. 

3. 

4. 

5. 

6. 

7. 

8. 

9. 
10. 
11. 

W.  bishop  of  Winchester,  1,  2,  3,  4,  5, 

7,  8,  9,  10,  11. 

R.  bishop  of  Bath  and  Wells,  1,2,  3, 

5,  6,  7,  8,  9,  10,  11. 
J.  bishop  of  Exeter,  1,  2,  3,  4,  5,  6,  7, 

8,  9,  10,  11. 

George,  duke  of  Clarence,  1,  2,  4,  5,  G, 

7,  8,  9,  10,  11. 
Richai  d,  earl  of  Warwick  and  Salisbury, 

1,  2,  4. 

William,  earl  of  Arumlell,  1,  2,  3,  4,  5, 

6,  7,  8,  9,  10,  11. 
John,  earl  of  Worcester,  1,  2,  3. 
Antony  Widevile  of  Scales  and  Neuccis, 

kniglit,  earl  of  Ryver.s,  1,  2,  3,  5,  6, 

7,  8,  9,  10,  11. 
John  Audeley  of  Audeley,  knight,  1,  2, 

3,  5,  6,  7,  8,  9,  10,  11. 
William  Fenys  of  Say  of  Seel,  knight, 

1,2,3. 

Walter  Moyle,  Moile,  knight,  1,  2,  3,  4. 
Thomas  Yonge,  1,  2,  3,  4. 
John  Lisle,  knight,  1,  2,  3,  4. 
Richard  Darcll,  knight,  1,  2,  3. 
Thomas  Uvedalc,  kniglit,  1,2,  3. 
Geoil'rey  Gate,  knight,  1,  2. 
Maurice  Berkeley  of  Beverston,  1,  2,  3. 
John  Paulet,  1,  2,  3,  4,  5,  G,  7,  9,  10, 
11. 

Nicholas  Gaynesford,  1,  3. 
Thomas  WcUo,  Welles,  1,  2,  3,  4,  5,  G, 
7,  8,  9,  10,  11. 


Thomas    Matravers    of  Matravers, 

knight,  12. 
Edward  Gray  (Lysle)  of  Lysle,  knight, 

12,  13,  14,  15. 

Richard  Tunstall,  knight,  12. 
Giles  Dawebeney,  12,  13,  14,  15. 
Thomas  Norton,  12,  13,  14. 
William  Barkeley  of  Barkeley,  knight, 

13,  14,  15. 

John  Lygons,  Hygons,  14,  15. 


John  Walop,  Wallop,  1,  2,  3,  5. 
Thomas  Pound,  1,  2,  3,  4,  5,  6,  7,  8. 
Henry  More,  1,2,  3,  5,  G,  7,  8,  9,  10, 
11. 

John  Hamond,  1,  2. 
Thomas  Heyno,  Hayno,  1,  2. 
Richard,  duke  of  Gloucester,  3,  5,  6, 

7,8,9,10,11. 
Thomas  Arundell  of  Matravers,  kniglit, 

3,  5,  G,  7,  8,  9,  10,  11. 
William  Stourton  of  Stourton,  knight, 

3,  5,  G,  7,  8,  9,  10,  11. 
John  Dudley,  3. 
Edward  Berkeley,  3,  5. 
Richard  Jay,  3,  4,  5,  G,  7,  8,  9,  40,  11. 
Henry  Courte,  4. 
John  "VVhitc'hed,  4. 
John  Tycchebourne,  4. 
Richard  Chokke,  knight,  5,  6,  7,  8,  9, 

10,  11. 

John  Catcsbv,  5,  G,  7,  8,  9,  10,  11. 
William  Sandcs,  knight,  5,6,  7,  8,  9, 
10,  11. 

William  Berkeley,  5,  G,  7,  8. 
John  Coke,  5,  6,  7,  8,  9,  10,  11. 
Thomas  Stanley  of  .Stanley,  knight,  6. 
Richard  Tun.stall,  knight,  G. 
William  Notyngham,  G. 
John  Roger,  8,  9,  10,  11. 
John  lilount  ofMountjoy,  10,  11. 
Thomas  Dan  vers,  11. 


Southampton. 


Dogmersfield,  10  January,  1468.  7  Edward  IV.  Part  1.  ra.  22d. 
Westminster,  10  November,  1467.  „  ,,        ;,  2\d. 

Southampton,  30  April,  1470.        10      .,  „        „  I5d. 

Westminster,  18  December,  1470.  49  Henry  VI.  m.  2\d. 

„  12  July,  1474.  14  Edward  IV.  Part  1.  m.  27rf. 

„  10  November,  1475.  15     „  „        „  29«i. 

„         22  December,  1475.  „  „        „  25 J. 

„         28  June,  1476.  16     „  „        „  28(/. 

„         2G  November,  1476.         „  „        „  27d. 

„         28  November,  147G.         „  „        „  27 d. 

„         30  November,  1476.         „  „        „  26d. 


630 


Staffordshire. 


1.  Westminster,  16  November,  1468. 

2.  Dogmersfield,  29  March,  1469. . 

3.  Westminster,  4  December,  1470. 

4.  „  8  July,  1471. 

5.  „  2  July,  1472. 

6.  .        „  4  April,  1473. 

7.  „  12  February,  1474. 

8.  „  10  November,  1475. 

J.  bishop  of  Coventry  and  Lichfield, 

1,  2,  3,  4,  5,  6,  7,  8. 
George,  duke  of  Clarence,  1,  2,  3,  4,  5, 

6,  7,  8. 

Richard,  earl  of  Warwick  and  Salisbury, 
1  3 

John,  earl  of  Shrewsbury,  1,  2,  3, 4,  5, 6. 
Joliu  Audeley  of  Audeley,  knight,  1,  2, 

4,  5,  6,  8. 
Henry  Grey  of  Codnore,  knight,  I,  2, 

4,  5,  6,  7,  8. 
John  Sutton  of  Dudley,  knight,  1,  2, 

4,  5,  6,  7,  8. 
Walter  Blount  of  Mountjoye,  knight, 

1,  2,  4,  5,  6,  7. 
Richard  Byngham,  knight,  1,  2. 
Richard  Chok,  knight,  1,2,  3. 
Thomas  Littelton,  1,  2,  4,  5,  6,  7,  8. 
John  Stanley,  knight,  1,  2,  3,  4,  5,  6, 

7,  8. 

Joha  Greseley,  knight,  1,  2,  3,  8. 
Walter  Wrotteslev,  knight,  1,  2,  3. 
Ralph  Wolseley,  "l,  4,  5,  6,  7,  8. 
John  Delves,  1,2. 
William  Cumber  ford,  1,  2,  3,  4. 


8  Edward  IV.  Part  1.  m.  266^. 


0  ))  5»  >> 

49  Henry  VI.  m.  2od. 

11  Edward  IV.  Part  1  m. 

12  ,,  ), 

13  «,  *, 


15 


22(1. 

2M. 
28(1. 
2ld. 
I9d. 
2Qd. 


Thomas  Asteley,  1,2. 
Nicholas  Warynges,  1,  2,  4,  5,  6,  7. 
Thomas  Wolsoley,  1,  2. 
Roger  Bayle,  Bailly,  1,  2,  3,  4,  5,  6,  7, 
8. 

John  Wode,  1,  2,  3,  6,  7. 
Henry  Vernon,  2. 
Thomas  Bryan,  3. 
William  Milton,  3. 
Robert  Hill,  Hylle,  3,  6,  7,  8. 
Richard,  duke  of  Gloucester,  4,  5,  6,  7, 
8. 

Humphrey,  duke  of  Buckingham,  4,  5, 
6,  7,  8. 

John,  earl  of  Wiltshire,  4,  5,  6. 
William    Hastynges    of  Hastynges, 

knight,  4,  5,  6,  7,  8. 
Thomas  Urswyk,  knight,  4,  5,  6,  7,  8. 
Guy  Fayrefax,  Fairfax,  4,  5,  6,  7,  8. 
Hugh  Egerton,  4,  5,  6,  7,  8. 
John  Acton,  4,  5,  6,  7. 
Richard  Baycott,  Bagott,  4,  5,  6,  7. 
William  Bassat,  Basset,  4,  5,  6,  7,  8. 
William  Harpour,  Harper,  7,  8. 


Suffolk. 


1.  Westminster,  20  November,  1467. 

2.  „  18  November,  1468. 

3.  Dogmersfield,  22  December,  1468. 

4.  Westminster,  13  June,  1470. 

5.  „  16  July,  1470. 

6.  „         4  December,  1470. 

7.  „         4  July,  1471. 

8.  „         13  December,  1473. 

9.  Nottingham,  11  September,  1473. 

10.  Westminster,  10  November,  1475. 

11.  „         13  December,  1476. 

W.  bishop  of  Norwich,  1,  2,  3, 4,  5, 6,  7. 
W.  bishop  of  Ely,  1,  2,  3,  4,  5,  7,  8,  9, 
10,  11. 

George,  duke  of  Clarence,  1,  2,  3, 6,  7, 

8,  9,  10,  Jl. 
John,  duke  of  Norfolk,  1,2,  3,  4,  5,  6, 

7,  8,  9,  10. 
John,  duke  of  Suffolk,  1,  2,  3,  4,  5,  6, 

7,  8,  9,  10,  11. 


7  Edward  IV.  Part  1.  m.  23d. 

8  ^,  „        „  26d. 
,,  „        „  25d. 


10 


14rf. 
14t/. 


49  Henry  VI.  m.  25d. 
11  Edward  IV.  Part  1.  m.  29d. 
13     „  „        „  19d. 

„  ,,        ,,  18c/. 


15 

16 


25d. 
26d. 


Richard,  earl  of  IWarwick  and  Salis-' 

bury,  1,  2,  3,  6, 
John,  earl  of  Oxford,  1,  2,  6. 
Henry,  earl  of  Esses,  1,  2,  3,  4,  5,  6, 

7,  8,  9,  10,  11. 
John,  earl  of  Northumberland,  marquis 

of  Montagu,  1,  2,  3,  G. 
William  Yelverton,  knight,  1,  2,  3  4, 

5,  6. 


631 


Suffolk — cont. 


Thomas  Billyng,  1,  2,  3,  4,  5,  6,  7,  8, 

9,  10,  11. 

Richard  Pygot,  1,  2,  3,  4,  5,  G,  7,  8,  9, 

10,  11, 

John  Howard,  knight,  1,  2,  3,  4-,  5,  7, 

8,  9,  10. 

Thomas  Walgrave,  knight,  1,  2,  3,  4, 

5,  7. 

John  Henyngham,  Hevenyngham, 
knight,  1,  2,  3,  4,  5,  6.  7,  8,  9,  10, 
11. 

Thomas  Brewes,  knight,  I,  2,  3,  5,  8, 

9,  10,  11. 

William  Jenney,  1,  2,  3,  5,  6,  7,  8,  9, 

10,  11. 

John  Hopton,  1,  2,  3. 

John  Clopton,  1,  2,  3,  4,  5,  6,  10,  11. 

Gilbert  Debenham,  esquire,  1,  5,  7,  8,9. 

„  „       knight,  7,  8,  9. 

Thomas    Higham,     Heysham,  the 

younger,  1,  2,  3,  4,  5,  6,  'l0,  11. 
John  Suiyard,  Suylyerd,  1,  2,  3,  4,  5, 

6,  7,  8,  9,  10,  11. 

William  Mekelfeld,  Mekifeld  1,  2,  3, 
8,  9. 


James  Hubbard,  Hoberd,  Hobard,  1, 

2,  3,  4,  5,  7,  8,  9,  10,  11. 
Ricliard  Yaxley,  1,  2,  3. 
William  Geddyng,  2,  3,  4,  5,  7,  8,  9. 
Thomas  Wyngfeld,  kniglit,  3,  4,  5,  7. 
William  Brandon,  knight,  3,  4,  5,  7,  8, 

9,  11. 

Anthony,  earl  of  Ryvers,  4,  5,  7,  8,  9, 

10,  11, 

John  Wyngfeld.  knight,  4,  5,  7,  8,  9, 
10,  II. 

Richard  Bothe  the  elder,  4,  5. 
Henry  Wentworth  the  elder,  4,  5. 
Robert  Fcny.s,  Fynes,  knight,  6,  8,  9. 
Robert  Harleston,  6. 
William  Harleston,  6. 
Richard,  duke  of  Gloucester,  7,  8,  9, 
10,  11. 

Robert  AYyngfeld,  knight,  7,  8,  9. 

J.  bishop  of  Norwich,  8,  10,  11. 

William  Alyngton,  8. 

William  Hopton,  8,  9. 

John  Broughton  the  younger,  10,  11. 


Surrey. 


1.  Coventry,  15  February,  1468. 

2.  Dognicrsfield,  30  March,  1469» 

3.  Westminster,  5  May,  14G9. 


4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9, 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13, 
14. 
15. 
16. 


10  July,  1469. 

15  December,  1470. 

12  May,  1472. 

27  May  1472. 

28  October,  1472. 
2G  November,  1472. 
26  February,  1473. 

13  April,  1473. 

14  July,  1474. 

3  December,  1474. 

16  October,  1475. 
10  November,  1475. 

15  January,  1477. 


7  Edward  IV.  Part  1.  m.  21^7^ 
9       „  „        „  2id. 

„  23./. 

,,  „  22d. 

49  Henry  VI.  m.  25(1. 
12  Edward  IV.  Part  1.  m.  28(1. 


Th.  archbishop  of  Cantcr])ury,  1,  2,  3, 
4,  5,  6,  7,  8,  9,  10,  11,  12,  13,  15, 
16. 

W.  bishop  of  Winchester,  I,  2,  3,  4,  5, 
6,  7,  8,  9,  10,  11,  12,  1.3,  15,  16. 

J.  bishop  of  Exeter,  1,  2,  3,  4,  5,  G,  7, 
8,  9,  10,*  11,  12,  13,  15,  16. 

George,  duke  of  Clarence,  1,  2,  3,  4,  5, 
6,  7,  8,  9,  10,  11,  12,  13,  15,  16. 


n 

55 

28rf, 

» 

27</. 

» 

24d. 

2id. 

13 

)> 

» 

») 

2ld. 

14 

5> 

J» 

27d. 

J> 

5» 

)> 

26d. 

15 

JJ 

55 

» 

30d. 

)) 

>J 

27d. 

16 

>» 

J> 

JJ 

26d. 

Richard,  carl  of  Warwick  and  Salisburv, 

1,  2,  3,  4,  5. 
Richard,  carl  of  Ryvers,  1,  2,  3,  4. 
Edward  Ncvyll  of  Bergcvennv,  knight, 

1,  2,  3,  4,  5,6,  7,  8,  9,  10,  11,12,  13, 

14,  15,  16. 
John  Bourghchier  of  Berncr?,  knight, 

1,2,3,  4,  5,6,  7,8,  0,  10,  11. 


*  '  Lincoln '  in  error. 


632 


Surrey — cont. 


Ricliard  Fenys  of  Dacre,  knight,  1,  2, 
3,  4,  5,  6,  7,  8,  9,  10,  11,  12,  13,  14, 
15,  16. 

Humphrey  Bourghchier  of  Cromwell, 

knight,  1,  2,  3,  4.  . 
Humphrey  Bourghchier,  knight,  1,  2, 

3,  4. 

Eicharcl  lllyngworth,  Elyngworth, 
knight,  1,  2,  3,  4,  5,  6,  7,  8,  9,  10,  11, 
12,  13. 

William  Yelverton,  knight,  I,  2,  3, 
4,5. 

William  Laken,  1,  2,  3,  4,  5,  6,  7,  8,  9, 

10,  11,  12,  13. 
Thomas  Cobham,  knight,  1,  2,  3,  4,  5. 
William  Catesby,  1. 
Thomas  Vaghan,  Vaughan,  1,  2,  3,  4, 

6,7,9,10,11. 
.  . ,,  treasurer  of  the  king's  chamber,  8. 
Thomas  Selanger,  Sentlnger,  Senilegir, 

1,  2,  3,  4,  6,  7,  8,  9,10,11,12,13,14, 

15,  16. 

Nicholas  Gaynesfortl,  1,2,  3,  4,  6,  7,  8, 

9,  10,  11,  12,  13,  14,  15,  16. 
John  Elinbrigge,  Elinebrigge,  1,  2,  3, 

4,  5,  6,  7,  8,  9. 
Arthur  Ormesby,  1. 
Thomas  Slyfeld,  1,  2,  3,  4. 
EobertWyntershyll,  1,  2,  3,  4,  5,  6,  7. 
John  Audeley  of  Audeley,  knight,  2, 

3,  4,  6,  7,  8,  9,  10,  Jl,  12,  13,  14, 

15,  16. 

John  Catesby,  2,  3,  4,  6,  7,  8,  9, 13, 14, 
15,  16. 

.  . .,  serjeant-at-law,  10,  11,  12. 
John  Wode,  3,  4,  5,  9,  13. 

„       „     the  elder,  6,  7,  8,  10,  11, 
12,  14,  16. 
John  Gaynesford,  3,  4,  6,  7,  8,  10,  11, 

12,  13,  14,  15,  16. 
Richard    Bourghchier    of  Berners, 

knight,  4. 


George  Nevylle,  4, 13. 

„      knight,  6,  7,  8,  9,  10, 
11,  12,  15,  IG.  , 

Henry  Stafford,  knight,  5. 
William  Cornu,  5. 

L.  bishop  of  Durham,  6,  7,  8,  9,  10, 11, 

12,  13,  15. 

Richard,  duke  of  Gloucester,  6,  7,  8,  9, 

10,  11,  12,  13,  15,  16. 
Henry,  earl  of  Northumberland,  6,  7, 

8,  9,  10,  11,  12,  13,  15,  16. 
Walter  Blount  of  Mount] oye,  knight, 

7,  8,  9,  10,  11,  12. 
Thomas  Bryan,  6,  7,  8,  9,  10,  11,  12, 

13,  16. 

. .  .,  knight,  14,  15. 

John  Hoigrave,  Holgreve,  6,  7,  8,  9, 

10,  11,  12,  13,  14,  15,  16. 
Thomas  Wyntershill  the  younger,  8,  9, 

10,  11,  12,  13. 
Thomas  Stauley  of  Stanley,  knight,  9, 

10,  11,  12,  13,  14,  15,  16. 
Thomas  Basset,  10,  11,  12,  13. 
William,    Merston,  Marston,  11,  15, 

16. 

William,  earl  of  Arundell,  12,  13, 
Thomas  Bourghchier,  12,  13,  14,  15, 
16. 

George  Broun,  knight,  12,  13,  14,  15, 
16. 

John  Marston,  12,  13. 

Thomas  Ive,  12,  13. 

William  Dunnyngton,  Dummyugton, 

12,  13,  14,  15,  16. 
William  Hatteclyff,  13. 
Henry,  earl  of  Essex,  14. 
Robert  Wyngfeld,  knight,  14. 
Thomas  Stydalfe,  14. 
John  Stedolf,  15. 
L.  archbishop  of  York,  16. 
William  Huse,  16. 


Sussex. 

1.  Coventry,  16  February,  1468.  7  Edward  IV.  Part  1.  m.  21</. 

2.  Dogmersfield,  23  April,  1468.  8      „             „          „  30J. 

3.  Westminster,  8  July,  1469.  9     „              „          „  23d. 

4.  „          7  November,  1470.  49  Henry  VI.  m.  21d. 

5.  „          20  June,  1471.  11  Edward  IV.  Part  1.  m.  21  d. 

6.  „          6  December,  1471.  „             „         „  27rf. 

7.  „          11  March,  1472.  12      „             „         „  29d. 

8.  „          5  May,  1472.  „              „         „  2Sd. 

9.  „  30  August,  1472.  „  „  „  27d. 
10.          „          7  December,  1473.  13      „                      „  2Qd. 


633 


Sussex— 

11.  Westminster,  4  November,  1473.  13 

12.  „  16  July,  1474.  14 

13.  „  13  August,  1474. 

14.  „  24  November,  1474, 

15.  „  10  November,  1475.  15 

16.  „  15  January,  1476. 

17.  „  15  July,  1476.  16 

18.  „  16  November  1476. 

19.  „  28  November^  1476. 


Til.  archbishop  of  Canterbury,  1,  2,  3, 

4,  5,  6,  7,  8,  9,  10,  U,  12,  13,  14, 

15,  16,  17,  18,  19. 
J.  bishop  of  Chichester,  1,  2,  3,  4,  G, 

7,  8,  9,  10,  11,  12,  13,  14,  15,  16, 

17,  18,  19. 
George,  duke  of  Clarence,  1,  2,  3,  4,  5, 

6,  7,  8,  9,  10,  n,  12,  13,  14,  15,  16, 
17,  18.  19. 

Richard,  earl  of  Warwick  and  Salis- 
bury, 1,2,3,  4. 

William,  earl  of  Arundell,  1,  2,  3,  4,  5, 
G,  7,  8,  9,  10,  11,  12,  13,  14,  15,  IG, 
17,  18,  19. 

John,  carl  of  Worcester,  1,  2,  3. 

Richard  West  de  la  Warre,  knight,  1, 

2,  3,  4. 

Richard  Fenys  of  Dacre,  knight,  1,  2, 

3,  4,  5,  6,  7,  8,  9,  10,  11,  12,  13,  14, 
15,  16,  17,  18,  J  9. 

Humphrey  Bourghchier  of  Cromwell, 

knight,  1,  2,  3. 
William    Ilastynges    of  Hastynges, 

knight,  1,  2,  3,  5,  6,  7,  8,  9,  10,  11, 

12,  13.  14,  15,  16,  17,  18,  19. 
William  Yelverton,  knight,  1,  2,  3,  4. 
William  Laken,  1,  2,  3,  4,  5,  6,  7,  8,  9, 

10,  11,  12,  13,  14. 
John  Pelham,  knight,  1,  2,  3. 
Thomas  Vaghan,  1,  2,  3,  5,  6,  7,  8,  9, 

10,  11. 

Thomas  Hoo,  1,  2,  3,  5,  6,  7,  8,  9,  10, 

11,  12,  13,  14. 

Richard  Dalyngrygge,  Dalyngrigge,  I, 
2,  3. 

John  Devenyssh,  1,  2,  3,  5,  6,  7,  8,  9, 
10, 11,  12,  13,  14,  15,  16,  17,  18,  19. 
liartholomew  Bolncy,  1,  2,  3,  4,  5,  6, 

7,  8,  9,  10,  11,  12,  13,  14,  15, 16,  17. 
Nicholas  Morley,  1,  i',  3,  4,  5,  6,  7,  8, 

9,  10,  11. 

William  Cheyne,  Cheyuey,  1,  2,  3,  5, 

6,  7,  8,  9,  10,  11,  14. 
John  Goryng,  the  younger,  1,  2,  3,  4. 

„      15,  16,  17,  18,  19. 
John  Fust,  1,  2,  3. 

Vincent  Fynch,  1,  2,  3,  6,  7,  8,  9,  10, 
11,  12,  13,  14. 


■cont. 

Edward  IV.  Part  1.  m.  18d. 

27d. 
2M. 

„  „  25J. 

2U. 
26d. 

„  „  28c?. 

27d. 

„  „  27c?. 

John,  duke  of  Njsrfolk,  2,  3,  5,  6,  7,  8, 

9,  10, 11,  12,  13,  14,  15,  16,  17. 
George  Neyylle,  3. 

knight,  5,  6,  7,  8,  9, 
10,  11,  12,  13,  14, 
15,  16,  17,  18,  19. 
Roger  Leukenore,  knight,  3,  4,  5,  6,  7, 
8,  9,  10,  11,  12,  13,  14,  15,  16,  17, 
18,  19. 
John  Wode,  3. 

„  „  the  younger,  7,  8,  9,  10, 
11,  12,  13,  14,15,16,17, 
18,  19. 

Thomas  Etchyngham,  knight,  4, 15,  16, 

17,  18,  19. 
John  Leukenore,  4. 
Richard  Alfray,  4. 
R.  bishop  of  Bath  and  Wells,  5. 
Richard,  duke  of  Gloucester,  5,  6,  7,  8, 

9, 10, 11, 12,  13, 14,  15,  IG,  17,  18,  19 
Henry,  earl  of  Northumberland,  5,  6, 

7,  8,  9,  10,  11,  12,  13,  14,  15,  16, 
17,  18,  19. 

Thomas  Bryan,  5,  6,  7,  8,  9, 10,  11,  12, 

13,  14,  15,  16,  17,  18,  19. 
John  Dudley,  5,  6,  7,  8,  9,  10,  11,  12, 

13,  14. 

John  Goryng,  3,  4,  5,  6,  7,  8,  9,  10, 

11,  12,  13,  14. 
Thomas  Leukenore  the  elder,  5,  6,  7, 

8,  9,  10,  11,  14. 

John  Fenys,  knight,  8,  9,  10,  11.  12, 

13,  14,  15,  16,  18,  19. 

Walter  lilount  of  Mountjoy,  knight, 

9,  10,  11,  12. 

John  Stanney,  the  elder,  10,  11,  13,  14. 
William  Couert,  Covert,  10,  12,  13,  14. 
John  Ehyngton,  12,  14. 
Richard  Leukenore  the  elder,  12,  13, 

14,  15,  IG,  17,  18,  19. 

Robert  Wodclblde,  Wodefeld,  Wode- 

well,  15;  16,  17,  18,  19. 
Robert  Wodvold  the  elder,  1 3,  14. 
Thomas     Arundell     of  INIatravers, 

knight,  10,  17,  IS,  19. 
Richard  Fenys,  knight,  17. 
William  Huse,  17,  18,  19. 
Thomas  Stedolfe,  19. 


634 


Warwickshire. 


1.  Dogmersfield,  3  January,  1468. 

2.  Westminster,  20  March,  1468. 


7  Edward  IV.  Part  1. 
8 


3.  „  5  February,  1469. 

4.  „  8  May  1469. 

5.  „  22  December,  1470. 

6.  „  6  December,  1471. 

7.  „  18  September,  1472. 

8.  Coventry,  18  June,  1473. 

9.  Westminster,  8  July,  1473. 

10.  „  12  February,  1474. 

11.  Northampton,  15  September  1474. 

12.  Kenilwortb,  22  September,  1474. 

13.  Westminster,  10  November,  1475. 

J.  bishop  of  Worcester,  1,  2,  3,  4, 6,  7, 
-    9,  10,  12,  13. 

J.  bishop  of  Coventry  and  Lichfield, 
1,  2,  3,  4,  5,  6,  7,  9,  10,  12,  13. 

George,  duke  of  Clarence,  1,  2,  3,  4,  5, 
6,7,9,10,11,12,13. 

Richard,  earl  of  Warwick  and  Salis- 
bury, 1,  2,  3,  4,  5. 

John,  earl  of  Worcester,  1,  2,  3,  4. 

John  Strauuge  o£  vStraunge,  knight, 
1,  2,  3,  4,  6,  7,  9,  10,  12,  13. 

Robert  Danby,  knight,  1, 2,  3,  4,  5, 6,  9. 

Richard  Byngham,  knight,  1,  2,  3,  4,  5, 

6,  7,  9,  10,  12,  13. 

John  Nedeh&m,  knight,  1,  2,  3,  4,  5,  6, 

7,  9,  10,  12,  13. 

Thomas  Litelton,  Littelton,  1,  2,  3,  4, 

6,  7,  9,  10,  12,  13. 
Thomas  Feirers,  knight,  1,  2,  3,  4,  5, 

6,  7,  9,  10,  12,  13. 

Simon  Mounteford,  Mountfort,  Monte- 
fort,  knight,  1, 2,  3,  4,  6,  7,  9,  10,  12, 
13. 

Richard  Verney,  knight,  1,  2,  3,  4,  6, 

7,  9,  10,  12. 

Thomas  Bordyt,  Burdet,  Burdit,  1,  2, 

3,  4,  6,  7,  9,  12. 

John  Grevyle,  Grevile,  knight,  1,  2,  3, 

4,  5,  6,  7,  9,  10,  12,  13. 
Thomas  Higford,  1,  2,  3,  4. 

Henry  Boteler,  Botiller,  1,  2,  3,  4,  6,  7, 

8,  9,  10,  11,  12,  13. 


49  Henry  VI.  m.  23e?. 
U  Edward  IV.  Part  1 
12         „  „ 
13 


m.  2\d. 
„  30J. 
„  25^?. 
„  22,d. 


m.  2M. 
„  21d. 
„  2\d. 
„  21J. 

„  „         „  18c?. 

14  „  „        „  26d. 

24  d 

15  „  „        „  28d. 

Thomas  Muston,  1,  2,  3,  4,  5, 
William  Catesby,  knight,  2,  3,  4. 
John  Higford,  Huggeford,  Hugford,  2, 

4,  5,  6,  7,  9,  10,  12,  13. 
John  West,  3,  4,  6,  7,  9,  10,  11,  12, 13. 
John  Bourghchier,  knight,  4,  5. 
William  Briscowe,  5. 
Thomas  Waldiff,  5. 
John  Rous  the  younger,  5. 
Richard,  duke  of  Gloucester,  6,  7,  9, 

10,  12,  13. 
John  Sutton  of  Dudley,  knight,  6,  7,  9, 

10,  12,  13. 
William    Hastynges    of  Hastynges, 

knight,  6,  7,  9,  10.  12,  13. 
John  Parre,  knight,  6,  7,  8,  9,  10,  12. 
William  Lucy,  6,  7,  9,  10,  12. 
John  Beaufitz,  6,  7,  8,  9,  10,  12,  13. 
Thomas  Shirwode,  7. 
John,  earl  of  Shrewsbury,  8. 
Thomas  Stanley  of  Stanley,  knight,  8. 
Thomas  Billyng,  8,  11. 
Thomas  Burgh,  knight,  8. 
Henry,  duke  of  Buckingham,  10,  12. 
Humphrey  Stafford,  10. 
William  Harewell,  10,  12. 
John  Audeley  of  Audeley,  knight,  11. 
John  Dudley  of  Dudley,  knight,  11. 
Richard  Fenys  of  Dacre,  knight,  11. 
Richard  Hastynges,  knight,  11. 
John  Elryngton,  11. 


Westmoreland. 


1.  Westminster,  17  January,  1471. 

2.  „  6  May,  1474. 

3.  „  10  November,  1475 

4.  „  27  October,  1476. 

G.  archbishop  of  York,  1. 

George,  duke  of  Clarence,  1,  2,  3,  4. 

John,  marquis  of  Montagu,  1 . 


49  Henry  VI,  m.  24f?. 

14  Edward  IV.  Part  1.  m.  2%d. 

15  „  „        „  28(/. 

16  „  „        „  2'dd. 

Richard,  earl  of  Warwick  and  Salis- 
bury, 1. 

Henry  FitzHugh  of  FitzHugh,  knight,  1. 


635 


Westmoreland — cont. 


John  Nedeham,  knight,  1. 
Thomas  Littelton,  1. 
Edward  Bethom,  knight,  I. 
Richard  Redemayn,  knight,  1. 
John  Flemmyng,  1. 
Eichard  Musgrave,  3,  4. 
. . .  the  elder,  ] . 
Thomas  Sandford,  1. 
John  Mathell  the  elder,  1. 
John  Crakinthorpe  of  Holgill,  1. 
Edward  Thorneburgh,  1. 
Richard,  duke  of  Gloucester,  2,  3,  4. 
Henry,   carl  of  Northumberland, 
3,  4. 


2, 


Humphrey  Dacre  of  Dacre,  knight,  2, 
3,  4. 

Richard  Neel,  2,  3,  4. 
William  Jenney,  2,  3,  4, 
William  Parre,  knight,  2,  3,  4. 
Thomas  Strekland,  Strykland,  knight, 

2,  3,  4. 
Christopher  Moresby,  2. 
John  Wharton,  2,  3,  4. 
Nicholas  Taverner,  2,  3,  4. 
Thomas  Baty,  Bate,  2,  3,  4. 
William  Gylpyn,  2. 
Thomas  Middelton,  3,  4. 
Christopher  Baty,  4. 


Wiltshire. 


1.  Westminster,  18  November,  1470.    49  Henry  VI.  m.  26</. 

„       „      „  26(Z. 
,,       ,,      ,,  25(7. 
Edward  IV.  Part  1. 


24  November,  1170. 
17  December,  1170. 

20  June,  1171.  11 

4  April,  1172.  12 

1  April,  1473.  13 

8  November,  1475.  15 


m.  29</. 
„  29(/. 
„  22(7. 
„  29(7. 


W.  bishop  of  Winchester,  1,  2,  3,  4,  5, 
6,  7. 

R.  bishop  of  Salisbury,  1,  2,  3,  5,  6,  7. 
George,  duke  of  Clarence,  1,  2,  3,  4,  5, 
6,7. 

Richard,  earl  of  Warwick  and  Salis- 
bury, 1,  2,  3. 

William,  earl  of  Arundell,  1,  2,  3,  4,  5, 
6,  7. 

John,  abbot  of  Malmcsbury,  1,  2,  3, 
6,  7. 

William  Stourton  of  Stourton,  knight, 

1,  2,  3,  4,  5,  6,  7. 
Walter  Moyle,  knight,  1,  2,  3. 
Thomas  Yonge,  1,  2,  3. 
Roger  Tocotes,  kniglit,  1,  2,  5,  6,  7. 
John  Wroughton,  1,  2,  3. 
Henry  Longe,  1,2,  3,  4,  5,  0,  7. 
Thomas  Tropnell,  1,  2,  3. 
John  Whittokesmede,  1,  2,  3,  5,  G,  7. 


Thomas  Rogers,  1,  2,  3,  4,  5,  6,  7. 
Philip  Morgan,  2,  3. 
John  Monpesson,  3,  5,  G. 
Richard,  duke  of  Gloucester,  4,  5,  6,  7. 
John,  earl  of  Wiltshire,  4,  5,  G. 
John  Audeley  of  Audeler,  knight,  4,  5, 
G,  7. 

Richard  Chok,  knight,  4,  5,  G,  7. 
John  Catesby,  4,  5,  6,  7. 
John  Wilughby,  knight,  4,  5,  6,  7. 
Maurice  Berkeley,  knight,  4,  5,  G. 
George  Darell,  knight,  5,  6. 
John  Cheyne,  G,  7. 

Thomas    Matravers    of  Matravers 

knight,  7. 
Thomas  Stanley  of  Stanley,  knight,  7. 
Richard  Tunstall,  kniglit,  7. 
William  Notyngham,  7. 
William  Colyngburu,  7. 
John  Benger,  7. 


Worcestershire. 

1.  Westminster,  27  November,  14G9.     9  Edward  IV.  Part  1.  m.  21<7. 


2.  „  2  January,  1471. 

3.  „         24  February,  1473. 

4.  „  J  6  November,  1473. 

5.  „  12  May,  1474. 

G.  „  26  November,  1474. 

7.  Banbury,  24  September,  1474. 
B.  Westminster,  10  November,  1475. 


49  Henry  VI.  m.  23rf, 
12  Edward  IV.  Part  1.  m.  27(7. 
13 


14 


15 


18(7. 
27(7. 
2o(7. 
24(7. 
27(7. 


636 


Worcestershire — cont. 


J.  bishop  of  Worcester,  1,  2,  3,  4,  5, 
6,  8. 

George,  duke  of  Clarence,  1,  2,  3,  4,  5, 
6,  7,  8. 

Richard,  duke  of  Gloucester,  1,  3,  4,  5, 

6,  7,  8. 

Richard,  earl  of  Warwick  and  Salis- 
bury, 1,  2. 

ohn,  earl  of  Worcester,  1. 
John  Beauchamp  of  Powyk,  knight,  1, 

2,  3,  4,  5,  6,  8. 
John  Sutton  of  Dudley,  knight,  1,  3, 

4,  5,  6,  7,  8, 
Richard  Byngham,  knight,  1. 
Richard  Chok,  knight,  1,  2,  7. 
-    Thomas  Littelton,  1,  2,  3,  4,  5,  6, 

7,  8. 

Walter  Skuile,  knight,  1,  2,  3,  4,  5, 
6,  8. 

Humphrey  Stafford,  1,  3,  4,  5,  6. 
Richard  Croft  the  elder,  1. 
Thomas  Throgmerton,  1,  2,  3. 
Thomas  Everdon,  1,  2,  3. 
Thomas  Ligon,  Lygon,  1,  2,  3,  4,  5, 
6,  8. 

Thomas  Bryan,  2. 

William  Berkley,  2. 

E.  bisliop  of  Carlisle,  3,  5,  6,  8. 

J.  bishop  of  Rochester,  3,  5,  6,  8. 

Henry,  duke  of  Buckingham,  3. 

Anthony,  earl  Ryvers,  3,  5,  6,  8. 

Thomas  _  Arundell,  or  Matravers,  of 

Mutravers,  knight,  3,  5,  6. 
Thomas  Grey  of  Grey,  3. 


Thomas  Grey,  son  of  the  queen,  5,  6,  8 
Richard  Fenys  of  Dacre,  knight,  3» 
6,  8. 

Thomas,  abbot  of  Westminster,  3,  5. 
Thomas  Urswyk,  knight,  3,  4,  5,  G,  8. 
John  Nedeham,  knight,  3. 
Guy  Fairfax,  3,  4,  5,  6,  8. 
William  Dudley,  clerk,  3. 
Thomas  Vaghan,  5,  6,  8. 

„  „       treasurer  of  the  king's 

chamber,  3. 
Richard  Beauchamp,  knight,   3,  4, 
5,  6. 

Richard  Marty n,  clerk,  3,  5. 
William  Alyngton,  3,  5. 
John  Sulyard,  3,  5. 
Geoffrey  Coitesmore,  3. 
William  Lygon,  4,  5,  6,  8. 
Roger  Harewell,  4,  5,  6,  8. 
Richard  Crofte,  knight,  5,  6. 
Richard  Haute,   Hawete,   the  elder, 
5,  6. 

William  Notyngham,  5,  7. 

Th.  bishop  of  Hereford,  6,  8. 

Humphrey  Salwey,  6. 

William    Hastyuges    of  Hastynges, 

knight,  7c 
Thomas  Stanley  of  Stanley,  knight,  7. 
John  Audeley  of  Audeley,  knight,  7. 
Walter  Devereux  of  Ferrers,  knight,  7. 
John  Dynham  of  Dynham,  knight,  7. 
Richard  Hastynges,  knight,  7. 
Henry  Boteler,  7. 
Humphrey  Salwey,  8. 


Yorkshire,  East  Biding. 


1.  Westminister,  19  November,  1470. 

2.  „  18  December,  1472. 

3.  „  19  February,  1473. 

4.  /       „  5  November,  1475. 

5.  ^        „  8  February,  1477. 

G.  archbishop  of  York,  1. 
George,  duke  of  Clarence,  1,  2,  3,  4,  5. 
John,  marquis  of  Montagu,  1 , 
Richard,  earl  of  Warwick  and  Salis- 
bury, 1. 

Ralph  Graystok  of  Graystok,  knight, 

1,  2,  3,  4,  5. 

Thomas  Lumley  of  Lumley,  knight,,  1, 

2,  3,  4,  5. 

John  Melton,  knight,  1. 
Robert  Constable,  knight,  1,  2,  3,  4,  o. 
John  Constable,  knight,  1,  2. 
Richard  Eliugwortli,  knight,  1. 


49  Henry  VI.  m.  2Qd. 
12  Edward  IV.  Part  1.  m.  24</. 
„  „         „  24c?. 

15  „  „         „  25d. 

16  „  „         „  2bd. 

Richard  Neel,  Nele,  1,  2,  3,  4,  5. 
tJohn  Wencelagh,  1 . 
Robert  Sheffeld,  1. 
William  Eland,  1,  2,  3,  4,  5. 
Edward  Stalmerssh,  Saltmersh,  1,2,  3, 
4.  5. 

John  Vavasoure,  1,  2,  3,  4. 

„  „      the  elder,  5. 

Richard,  duke  of  Gloucester,  2,  3,  4,  5. 
Henry,  earl  of  Northumberland,  2,  3, 
4,5. 

William  Jcnney,  2,  3,  4, 5. 


637 


Yorkshire,  East  Biding — cont. 


Eobert  Hyljard,  Helyard,  the  elder,  2, 
3,  4,  5. 

John  Heytfeld,  Haytfekl,  2,  3,  4,  5. 
Richard  Tliwaytes,  2. 
Edmund  Skern,  2,  3. 


Walter  GryfFyth,  knight,  3,  4,  5. 
Henry  Thwaytes,  3,  4,  5. 
Stephen  Copyndale,  3. 
John  Vavesour  the  younger,  5. 


Yorkshire,  North  Biding. 


1.  Westminster,  16  July  14G8. 

2.  „  20  November,  1470. 

3.  „  25  February,  1472. 

4.  „  14  February,  147G. 

5.  „  10  November,  1475. 

6.  „  20  February,  1477. 

G.  archbishop  of  York,  1,  2,  3. 
L.  bishop  of  Durham,  1,  3,  4,  5. 
George,  duke  of  Clarence,  1,  2,  3,  4,  5, 
6. 

Richard,  earl  of  Warwick  and  Salis- 
bury, 1,  2. 

John,  earl  of  Northumberland  mar- 
quis of  Montagu,  1,  2. 

Henry  Fitz  Hugh  of  FitzHugh,  knight, 

1,  2. 

Ralph  Greystoke,  knight,  1,  2,  3,  4,  5, 
6. 

Thomas  Lumley  of  Lumley,  knight,  1, 

2,  3,  4,  5,  6. 

Henry  Nevylle,  knight,  1. 
Robert  Dauby,  knight,  1,  2,  3. 
Richard    Illingworth,  Eliugworth, 

kniglit,  1,  2. 
Richard  Ncclc,  Nclc,  1,  2,  3,  4,  5,  G. 
Richard  Pygot,  1,  2,  3,  4,  5,  G. 
James  Strangwevs,  knight,  1,  3,  4,  5, 

6. 

John  Conyers,  kniglit,  1,  2,  3,  4,  5,  G. 
John  Salvan  of  Bcrgh,  knight,  1. 
Ralph  Ayssheton,  Asshton,  knight,  1,  3. 


8  Edward  IV.  Part  1.  m.  29(1. 

49  Henry  VI.  xa.  2Qd. 

1 1  Edward  IV.  Part  1 .  m.  2Gc/. 

15  „  „       „  21  d. 
„          ,,       „  26c?. 

16  „  „       „  2(jJ. 

Thomas  Wytham,  Witham,  1,  2,  8,  4, 
5,  6. 

Henry  Eure,  1,  3,  4,  5. 
William  Burgh,  1. 
Thomas  Aspar,  1,  2. 
John  Shirwode,  1,  2. 
William  Colvylc,  1,  6. 
John  Lescrope  of  Bolton,  knight,  2. 
John  Lescrope  of  Upsale,  knight,  2. 
John  Norton,  knight,  2. 
Miles  Metcalfe,  2,  4,  5,  6. 
Thomas  Conyers  of  Whitby,  2. 
Richard,  duke  of  Gloucester,  3,  4,  5,  G. 
Henry,  earl  of  Northumberland,  3,  4, 
5,  6. 

William    Hastynges    of  Ilastynges, 

knight,  3,  4,  5,  6. 
Richard  Fitzhugli,  knight,  3. 
William  Jenney,  Genney,  3,  4,  5,  6. 
John  Pykeryug,  kniglit,  3,  4,  5,  6. 
Edmund  Hastynges,  knight,  3,  4,  5,  G. 
William  Eure,  Ewrc,  knight,  3,  4,  5, 

6. 

L.  archbishop  of  Yoi  k,  G. 


Yorkshire,  West  Ridwg. 


1.  Westminster,  8  May,  1167. 


2. 

3. 

4. 

5. 

6. 

7. 

8. 

9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 


27  June,  1 167. 
17  October,  MG7. 
8  June,  1468. 
19  November,  1470. 
24  February,  1472. 
24  February,  1472. 

1  June,  1473. 

2  December,  1473. 
10  November,  1475. 
22  November,  1176. 
G  December,  1476. 


7  Edward  IV.  Part  1. 
»  » 
»  »> 

49  Henry  VI.  ni.  26./. 
11  Edward  IV.  Part  1. 

13  ,)  ,5 


IS 
16 


m.  24</. 
„  23./. 
„  23./.* 
„  21d. 

m.  2GJ. 
„  26./. 
„  2\d. 
„  20d. 
„  2od. 
„  27./. 
„  21d. 


♦  Given  as  '  for  tho  county  of  York.' 


638 


Yorkshire,  West 

Gt.  archbishop  of  York,  1,  2,  3,  4,  5, 

6,  7. 

George,  duke  of  Clarence,  1,  2,  3,  4,  5, 
G,  7,  8,  9,  10,  11,  12. 

Richard,  earl  of  Warwick  and  Salis- 
bury, 1,  2,  3,  4,  5. 

John,  earl  of  JSTorthumberland,  marquis 
of  Montagu,  1,  2,  3,  4,  5. 

Ralph  Greystoke  of  Greystoke,  knight, 

1,  2,  3,  4,  6,  7,  8,  9,  10,  11,  12. 
John  Nedeham,  knight,  1,  2,  3. 
Thomas  Litylton,  Littelton,  1,  2,  3. 
William  Stanley,  knight,  1 ,  2,  3,  4,  6, 

7,  8,  9. 

James  Strangways,  knight,  1,  2,  3,  4. 
John  Sayvyle,  Say  vile,  Savile,  knight, 

1,2,  3,4,  7,  8,  9. 
Richard  Fitz William,  knight,  1,  2,  3,  4, 

6,  7,  8,  9,  10,  11,  12. 

Brian  Roclyff,  Rouclyf,  RouclilF,  1,  2, 

3,  4,  6,  7,  8,  9,  10,  11,  12. 
Guy  Fayrefax,  Fairfax,  1,  2,  3,  4, 5,  6, 

7,  8,  9,  10,  11,  12. 
John  Pilkyngton,  1,  2,  3,  4. 

knight,  6,  7,  8,  9,  10,  11,  12. 
John  Hastynges,  1,  2,  3,  4. 
Henry  Sothehill,  1,  2,  3,  4,  5,  6,  7,  8, 
9. 

Robert  Nevyll,  Nevile,  1,  2,  3,  4. 
William  Hopton,  1,  2,  3,  4,  5. 

of   Swillyngton,   8,  9,  10,  11, 

12. 

John  Thwaytes,  1,  2,  3,  4. 

William  Copley,  1,  2,  3,  4,  5. 

Edward  Goldsburgh,  Guldesburgh,  1, 

2,  3,  4. 


Riding — cowt 

William  Scargyll,  Scargill,  1,  2,  3,  4. 
Percival  Grysacre,  Grisacre,  Grisaker, 

I,  2,  3,  4. 

William  Sayvyle,  Sayvile,  Savile,  1,  2, 

3,  4,  6,  7,  8,  9,  10,  11,  12. 
. .  . ,  knight,  6. 

Ambrose   Grysacre,   Grisaker,  1,  2, 
3,  4. 

Robert  Gascoign,  Gascoyngn,  1,  2,  3,4, 
5,  6,  7,  8. 

William  Bradford,  1,  2,  4,  5,  6,  7,  8,  9, 
10. 

John  FitzWilliam,  2,  3,  4. 

Richard    lUyngworth,  Elyngworth, 

knight,  4,  5. 
Richard  Nele,  Neel,  4,  5,  6,  7, 8,  9,  10, 

II,  12. 
John  Feryby,  4. 

John  Woderowe,  4,  G,  7,  8,  9. 
Guy  Rouclif,  5. 
James  Danby,  5. 

L.  bishop  of  Durham,  6,  7,  8,  9,  10. 

L.  archbishop  of  York,  12. 

Richard,  duke  of  Gloucester,  G,  7,  8,  9, 

10,  11,  12. 
Henry,  earl  of  Northumberland,  6,  7, 

8,  9,  10,  11,  12. 
John,  earl  of  Shrewsbury,  6,  7,  8. 
William  Jeoney,  G,  7,  8,  9,  10,  11,  12. 
James  Haryngton,  knight,  6,  7,  8,  9. 
Hugh  Hastynge.'B,  knight,  6,  7,  8,  9. 
William  Gascoign,  6,  7,  8,  9. 
William  Plumpton,  knight,  7,  8,  9,  12. 
Thom.as  Middelton,  9,  10,  11,  12. 
Henry  Vavesour,  knight,  10,  11,  12. 
John  Bradford,  1 1,  12. 


GENERAL  INDEX. 


641 


GENERAL  INDEX. 


A. 

Abbery,  John,  202. 
Abbes,  Nicholas,  197. 
Abbeville,  Abvilde,  in  France,  104. 
Abbot,  Abbotte,  John,  166,  229. 

 ,  Peter,  60. 

 ,  Thomas,  542. 

Abbotsbury,  co.  Dorset,  abbey  of,  116,  125. 

 ,  convent  of,  115. 

 ,  William  Waller,  abbot  of,  115. 

  Hugh  Dorchestre,  abbot  of,  116,  125. 

Abdick,  Abdyke,  co.  Somerset,  hundred  of, 
339. 

Abendon.    See  Abingdon. 
Aberconway,  charter  dated  at,  17. 
Aberdeen,  Alberden,  in  Scotland,  14,  447. 
Abingdon,  Abyndon,  co.  Berks,  4,  6,  7,  76) 

146,  260. 

 ,  abbey  of,  115,  123,  136. 

 ,  convent  of,  119,  136. 

 ,  William  Apshcnden,  abbot  of,  51,  119. 

 John  Sant,  abbot  of,  123,  136. 

 ,  William  Stant,  abbot  of,  115. 

 ,  Peter,  abbot  of,  136. 

Abington,  Abyton,  Habendon,  co.  Cambridge, 

297,  560. 

 little,  223,  253. 

Abkettleby,  co.  Leicester,  580,  581. 

Abridge,  Hawebr3'gge,  co.  Essex.  173, 255, 322. 

Abrigge,  William,  615. 

Abrygge,  Thomas,  80. 

Abvilde.    See  Abbeville. 

Aby,  CO.  Lincoln,  508. 

Abynbury,  co.  Salop,  192. 

Abyndon,  Henry,  243. 

Abyton.    See  Abington. 

Acham,  William,  570. 

Achier,  Acher,  Robert,  201,  213,  217,  221. 

Achurch,  co.  Northampton,  147,  582. 

Acle,  Ocle,  co.  Norfolk,  73,  432. 

Acotte.    See  Agodde. 

Acton,  Aketou,  co.  Suffolk,  38,  480. 

Acton  Burnell,  co.  Salop,  257. 

 ,  statute  of,  84,  518. 

 charter  dated  at,  539. 

Acton,  John,  219,  284,  286,  351,  354,379, 

407,  441,  630. 
 ,    shcrifl  of  Stafford,  478. 

y  96186. 


Acton,  Thomas,  4,  247,  249,  407,  429,  606, 
627. 

Acworth,  John,  446. 
Adam,  John,  108,  488. 

 ,   ,  Eleanor  his  wife,  488. 

 ,  Thomas,  212,  488. 

 ,  William,  145,  488,  499,  616. 

Adams,  Hugh,  152. 

 John,  223. 

 ,  Simon,  407. 

 Thomas,  73. 

Adbeer,  Over,   Overattebere,  co.  Somerset, 
32,  33. 

 Nether,  Netherattebere,  co.  Somerset, 

32,  33. 

Adderley,  co.  Salop,  17,  125,  294. 

Aderby,  co.  Lincoln,  183. 

Ades,  John,  77,  78. 

Adishara,  Adesbam,  co.  Kent,  325. 

Adlingfleet,  «o.  York,  254. 

Adlington,  co.  Lancaster,  142. 

Admiral.    See  Neville  ;  Richard. 

Admiralty,  171,  184,  201,  489,  495,  525,  605. 

Admond,  Simon,  383. 

 ,  William,  251. 

Adourins,  Anselm,   Lord  of  Mousele  and 

Ghendbrigg,  97. 
Adys,  Thomas,  459. 
Aemstede,  lord  of.    See  Brugges. 
Affenne,  John,  316. 
Affeton,  CO.  Wilts,  177. 
Afton,  David,  411. 
Agdeu,  CO.  York,  439. 
Agecombe.    See  Eggecombc. 
Agges,  John,  93. 

 ,  William,  93. 

Aghenesbrokke.    See  Agney. 
Aghton,  Thomas,  241. 
Aglionby,  Nicholas,  214. 

 ,  Thomas,  214. 

Agmondesham,  Philip,  73. 

Agney,  Aghenesbrokke,  co.  Kent,  546. 

Agodde,  Acotte,  Richard,  516. 

Agyrston,  John,  624. 

Ailberton,  Alberton,  co.  Gloucester,  5. 

Ailesbury.    See  Aylesbury. 

Aillesbeare.    See  Aylcsbeare. 

Ainderby  Steeple,  Aynderby  Withstepill,  co. 

York,  346. 
Aintree,  Eyntree,  co.  Lancaster,  587. 
Aire,  Eyre,  river,  572. 
Aisby,  Ascby,  co.  Lincoln,  172. 

S  S 


642 


GENERAL  INDEX. 


Aketon.    See  Acton. 

Alan,  John,  148. 

Alanceston.    See  Launceston. 

Albemarle,  earl  of,  572. 

Alberbury,  Alburbery,  co.  Salop,  134,  402. 

Alberd,  William,  64,  184. 

Alberden.    See  Aberdeen. 

Alberton.    See  Ailberton  ;  Halberton. 

Alborton,  Richard,  262,  268. 

Albon,  Albone,  Henry,  254. 

 ,  John,  77. 

 ,  Richard,  579. 

 ,  "Willianr,  abbot  of  St.  Albans,  .595, 

597. 

Alborowe,  William,  52. 

Alchemy,  licence  to  practise,  116,  588. 

Alclyn,  John,  286. 

Aleck,  John,  43,  169,  171,  184,  201,  283. 

 ,  bishop  of  Rochester  [1472- 

1476],  276,  366,  379,  401,  530,  597, 
598,  615,  616,  618,  627,  636. 

 ,   ,  bishop  of  Worcester  [1476- 

1486],  597,  598,  614,  634. 

 ,  ,  dean  of  St.  Stephen's,  West- 
minster, 259,  332. 

 ,  ,  keeper  of  the  rolls  of  Chancery. 

259. 

 ,   ,  teacher  of  Edward,  prince  of 

Wales,  401. 

 ,  Richard,  4. 

 ,  Robert,  267. 

Alcombe,  CO.  Somerset,  65. 
Alcreton.    See  Alkerton. 
Alday,  John,  354. 

Aldborough,  Aldeburgh,  co.  York,  6. 
Aide,  William,  parson  of  St.  Blaise,  274. 
Aldeburgh,  Richard,  55. 
Aldenham,  co.  Hertford,  7. 

  And  see  Aldham. 

Alder,  Richard,  496. 
Aldermaston,  co.  Berks,  178,  374. 
Aldersey,  Thomas,  442. 
Aldewyncle,  William,  144,  158. 

 ,   ,  Elizabeth  his  -wife,  144. 

Aldey,  John,  362. 

Aldham,  Aldenham,  co.  Suffolk,  297,  538. 

Aldhous,  Thomas,  406. 

Aldingham,  Aldyngham,  co.  Lancaster,  456. 

Aldringtoc.    See  Allington. 

Aldryche,  Walter,  250. 

Aldwarke,  Aidewerk,  co.  York,  185. 

Aldw'uk  e,  co.  Northampton,  582. 

Ale,  John,  573. 

Alee,  William,  580. 

Aleinson,  Thomas,  299. 

Alesbury.    See  Aylesbury. 

Alesby.    See  Aylesby. 

Alestre,  John,  342. 

 Thomas,  231. 


Aleyn,  John,  73,  169,  377,  499,  511,  591. 

 ,   ,  parson  of  Gedling,  591. 

 ,  the  elder,  487. 

 ,   ,  Joan  his  wife,  487. 

 ,  Lawrence,  377. 

 ,  Richard,  499. 

 ,  Thomas,  65,  75,  197,  203,  256,  364. 

 William,  43,  118,  153,  431,  545. 

Aleynflete,  356. 

Aleynsmore.    See  AUensmore. 

Alfegh,  Alfoy,  John,  407,  428,  463,  618. 

Alford,  CO.  Lincoln,  508,  563. 

Alfonso,  king  of  Portugal,  379. 

Alfoy.    See  Alfegh. 

Alfray,  Peter,  92. 

 ,  Richard,  216,  247,  249,  255,  633. 

Alfrithe,  John,  243. 

Algore,  John,  32 1 . 

Aliens,  tax  on,  94,  95,  110,  157,  387. 

Alinton.    See  Allington. 

Alisaunder,  John,  317. 

Alkborough,  Aukebargh,  co.  Lincoln,  324. 

Alkerton,  Alcreton,  co.  Oxford,  256. 

 ,  CO.  Gloucester,  44. 

Alkeryge  [co.  Hereford],  102. 
Alkington,  Aughentons  Woode,  co.  Salop, 
402. 

Allard,  JohD,  383. 

All  Cannings,  Canynges,  co.  Wilts,  138. 
AUensmore,  Aleynsmore,  co.  Hereford,  110. 
Aller,  Richard,  552. 
A  Her  Peverell,  co.  Devon,  339,  343. 
Allerton,  Alverton,  co.  York,  179. 

  And  see  OUerton. 

Allerton,  Robert,  590. 
Allerwas.    See  Alrewas. 
Allington,  Alyngton,  Aldryngton,  co.  Lincoln, 
321,  396. 

 ,  Alinton,  co.  Wilts,  62,  328. 

Allonste.    See  Alost. 
Almain,  402,  547. 

 ,  merchants  of,  157,  202,  237,  272, 

307,  387,  445,  452,  509,  519,  540. 
Alman,  John,  141. 

Almshouses,  foundation  of,  113,  306,  604. 
Almyscombe,  John,  75. 
Alocte,  Robert,  207. 

Aloesbridge,  Alowesbrcgge,  co.  Kent,  hundred 
of,  302. 

Alost,  AUouste,  in  Flanders,  565. 
Alowesbregge.    See  Aloesbridge. 
Aloweston.    See  Alvestone. 
Alrewas,  Allerwas,  co.  Stafford,  159,  160, 
233,  253. 

Alspath,  CO.  Warwick,  49,  145,  292,  331,  604. 
Alston  More,  co.  Cumberland,  506,  513. 
Altmere,  584. 

Alton,  Aulton,  co.  Southampton,  417,  488. 
Akltrincham,  co.  Chester,  304. 


GENERAL  INDEX. 


643 


Aluethfim.    See  Bodelwyddan. 
Alvard,  John,  329. 

 ,  Thomas,  829. 

Alveley,  co.  Salop,  prebend  of,  342. 
Alverdiscott,  co.  Devon,  466. 
Alverston,  co.  Sussex,  434. 
Alverton.    See  Allerton. 
Alvescott,  CO.  Oxford,  .52,  333. 
Alverstone,  Aloweston,  co.  Gloucester,  386. 
Alveton,  co.  Stafford,  562. 
Alvyngton,  co.  Worcester,  436. 
Alwell.    .See  Halwell. 

Alwerton  (in   Madron),  co.   Cornwall,  94, 
179. 

Alyngton.    See  Allington. 

Alyngton,  John,  101,  349,  406,  432,  609. 

 ,  William,  101,  268,  285,287,  349,  353, 

366,  406,  410,  507,  609,  615,  616,  628, 

631,  636. 

 ,  Joan  his  wife,  507. 

Ambleside,  Haroelsett  [co.  Westmoreland], 

334,  .531. 
Ambresley.    See  Ombersley. 
Amell.    See  Ammell. 
Amelyn,  Jamef,  54. 

 Jocosus,  57. 

Amere,  .Tohn,  75. 
Amersham,  Philip,  4. 

Amerton,  Anneston  in  Stowe,  co.  Stafford, 
82. 

Ames  (in  East  Horndon),  co.  Essex,  297. 
Ambrose,  Christopher,  359. 

 ,  John,  74,  200,  573. 

Ammell,  Joceus,  57,  104. 
Amondesham,  Philip,  4. 
Amoore,  Robert,  515. 
Amory,  Hugh,  315. 

Ampleforth,  Anipilford,  co.  York,  416. 
Ampuldore.    See  Appledore. 
Ams,John,  503. 

Andelys,  charters  dated  at,  328,  371,  376,  601. 

Anderton,  Thurstan,  142. 

Andewarp.    See  Antwerp. 

Andover,  co.  Southampton,  25,  53,  385. 

Andreus,  Edmund,  78. 

Andrew,  one  of  the  vicars  of  Wells  cathedral, 
53. 

Andrewe,  Edwai'd,  500. 
 ,  John,  442. 

 ,  Richard,  rector  of  Gresford,  538. 

 Master  Richard,  dean  of  York,  326, 

569. 

 ,  Thomas,  5,  385. 

 ,  William,  152. 

Andrews,  William,  434. 
Angers,  abbey  of  St.  Nicholas,  238. 
Angevyn,  Aungesyn,  Charles,  286,  621. 
Anglesi'a,  co.  Cambridge,  priory  of,  507. 

 prior  and  convent  of,  507. 

 ,  John,  prior  of,  74. 


Anglesey,  county  of,  165. 
Anjou,  423. 

 ,  wine  of,  198. 

Anker,  Robert,  3. 

Ankerwyke,  co.  Buckingham,  Margaret  Porte, 

prioress  of,  380. 
Anne,  John,  625. 

Anne,  countess  of  Cambridge,  394. 
Annery,  Anry,  co.  Devon,  36. 
Anneson,  Henry,  223. 
Anry.    See  Annery. 

Anstey,  West,  Westansty,  co.  Devon,  223. 
Anston  [co.  York],  72. 
Ansty,  Anste,  .Tohn,  245,  248,  349,  406,  609. 
Anthorn,  Aynthome,  co.  Cumberland,  214, 
277. 

Antiaga,  Martin  de,  319. 
Antony,  Richard,  61. 
Antron,  Ralph,  141. 

Antwerp,  Andewarp,  in  Brabant,  87,  306. 

Apadam,  Richard,  502. 

Apedale,  Apdale,  co.  Stafford,  535. 

Apole,  .John,  515. 

Apostolic  collector,  586. 

  see,  186,  415. 

Appelton.    See  Appulton. 

Apperley,  Appurley,  co.  Gloucester,  257. 

Apperry,  John,  78. 

Appilby,  Alexander,  214,  215. 

 Elizabeth,  215. 

Appillisdon,  John,  523. 
Appilton     See  Appulton  ;  .Vppletou. 
Appleby,  co.  Westmoreland,  264,  423,  532. 
Appledore,  Aiupuldore,  co.  Kent,  13,  44. 
Applecrd,  William,  597. 

Applethwaitc,  Appultwayte  [co.  Westmore- 
land], 334,  531,532. 
Appletree,  Appultre,  co.  Northampton,  9. 
Appleton,  Appilton,  co.  York,  483,  486,  487. 
Appoldrefeld,  William,  302. 
Appulby,  Alexander,  277. 
 John,  610. 

Appulton,  Appilton,  Appelton,  John,  144, 
489. 

 Roger,  .W,  165,  199,  284,  364, 407,  463, 

55.5,  618. 

 ,  Thomas,  605. 

 ,   ,  escheator  of  Hertford,  100. 

 clerk  of  the  constableship,  1 10. 

Appultrefeld,  William,  101. 
Appultwayte.    See  Applethwaitc. 
Appulyerd,  John,  366. 
Appylby,  John,  211. 
Appyltou.    See  Appulton. 
Aprice,  Richard,  210. 
Aps,  John,  the  elder,  101,  168. 
Apslee,  Richard,  265,  296. 
Aquila,  bailift  of,  217.  231 
Aquitaine,  31,  536. 

S  S  2 


644 


GENERAL  INDEX. 


Aquitaine,  Charles,  duke  of,  559. 

 admiral  of.    <See  Richard  ;  Neville. 

Aragon,  510. 

Aras,  William,  70. 

Arblaster,  .James,  146,  250,  622. 

 ,  Thomas,  248. 

Arbroath,  Arbrodyt,  in  Scotland,  482. 
Archar,  Thomas,  448. 
Arche,  Eichard,  249. 
Archebald,  Henry,  580. 

Archenfield,  Irchenfield,  co.  Hereford,  397, 

411,  451,  539>  561,  590. 
Arde,  in  Ireland,  395. 
Ardern  Hall  [in  Horndon],  co.  Essex,  345. 
Ardern,  Peter,  74. 

 ,   ,  justice  of  the  Bench,  23. 

 ,   ,  Katharine  his  wife,  23. 

 ,  Thomas,  parson  of  Hadham,  23. 

 ,  ,  parson  of  Little  Stambridge, 

472. 

..,  ,  William,  parson  of  Little  Stambridge, 

472. 

Ardescote,  William,  prior  of  Penmou  and 

Prestholme,  122. 
Ardfert,  bishop  of.    See  Pygge. 
Ardglass,  in  Ireland,  162. 
Ardingley,  Hardynglegh,  co.  Sussex,  256. 
Ardington,  co.  Berks,  2,  582. 
Ardleigh,  Ardeley,  co.  Essex,  501. 
Ardmulchan,  Ardemulgham  [co.  Meath],  162, 

458,  598. 
Argaston,  John,  576. 
Arkengarthdale,  co.  York,  483,  486,  487. 
Arksey,  co.  York,  207. 
Arlesey,  Arlichesey,  co.  Bedford,  191. 
Armagh,  archbishopric  of,  259. 

 ,  archbishop  of.    See  Bole. 

Armathwaite,   co.    Cumberland,    priory  of, 

392. 

 ,  prioress  and  convent  of,  393. 

Armerer,  John,  603. 
Armestou.    See  Araerton. 
Arms,  grant  of,  338. 
Armyn,  John,  526. 
Arnall.    See  Arnold. 

Arnemuideu,  Ermewe,  Haremuth,  in  Zeeland, 

29,  57,  129. 
Arnold,  Arnall,  co.  Nottingham,  243,  386, 441, 

448,  482,  517. 
Arnold,  Kichard,  52. 

 ,  William,  31. 

Arnoldesson,  Talk,  1 13. 
Arnorica,  in  Brittany,  474. 
Arsses,  Richard,  8. 

Arsy  manor  in  Stallingborough,  co.  Lincoln, 
85. 

Arthorpe.    See  Authorpe. 
Arthur,  Richard,  162.  196,  522. 

 ,  William,  522, 

Arthuret,  Artruth,  co.  Cumberland,  21. 
Arthyngton,  John,  378. 


Artilburgh.    See  Irthlingborough. 
Artilburgh,  John,  473. 
Artour,  John,  254. 

 ,  Richard,  220,  284. 

Artruth.    See  Arthuret. 
Arundel,  co.  Sussex,  224. 

 ,  earl  of.    See  FitzAlan. 

Arundell,  John,  57,  169,  197,  200,  220,  246, 

399,  427,  610,  612. 
 ,  ,  bishop  of  Chichester  [1459- 

1477],  294,  633. 

 ,  ,  of  Lanherne,  102,  267,  610. 

 ,  ,  of  Talverne,  101,  104,  491. 

 ,   of  Trerys,  58. 

 ,  ,  Joan  his  wife,  58. 

 ,  Nicholas,  58. 

 ,  Thomas,  354,  491. 

 ,  of  Mautravers,  181,  219,  247, 

249,  284,  318,  351,  356,  495,  573,  613, 

615,  616,  627,  629,  633,  635,  636. 
Aschtone.    See  Assheton. 
Ascot  [co.  Berks],  573. 
Ascough,  John,  85, 

 ,  Richard,  85. 

 ,  Robert,  85. 

Ascu,  John,  352. 

 ,  Master  Robert,  canon  of  Exeter, 

374. 

Aseby.    See  Aisby. 
Ash,  Asshe,  co.  Kent,  42. 

 Eyssh,  CO.  Suffolk,  110. 

 CO.  Surrey,  548. 

  by  Farningham,  Asshe  by  Frenyug- 

ham,  CO.  Keot,  480. 

  Thomas,  co.  Devon,  343. 

Ashbourne,  Assheburn  in  le  Peek,  co.  Derby, 

504. 

Ashburton,  Ayssheperton,  co.  Davon,  171. 
Ashbury,  Aysshbury,  co.  Berks,  280,  578, 
589. 

 ,  Asshebury,  co.  Devon,  24,  45,  46. 

Ashby,  CO.  Norfolk,  82. 

  de  la  Zouch,  co.  Leicester,  97,  98, 

476. 

Ashdou,  Asshedon,  co.  Essex,  12. 

Ashdown  Park,  Aysshedonpark,  co.  Berks, 

578,  589. 
Ashelworth,  co.  Gloucester,  7. 
Ashen,  Asshyn,  co.  Essex,  75. 

Ashford,   Asshettesford,  Esshettisford,  co. 
Kent,  42,  119,  274,  301,  414,  585. 

 ,  hundred  of,  301. 

Ashill,  Asshehill,  co.  Norfolk,  322. 

 ,  AysshehuU,  co.  Somerset,  9. 

Ashley,  Assheley,  co.  Northampton,  9,  27, 
517. 

 by  Tiverton,  co.  Devon,  179. 

Ashover,  co.  Derby,  76. 

Ashow,  Asshe,  co.  Warwick,  64,  411. 

Ashprington,  Ayspryngton,  eo.  Devon,  171. 


GENERAL  INDEX. 


645 


Asliridge,  Aysserygge,  co.  Devon,  36. 

 ,  hundred  of,  242. 

AshtOD,  Asshyn,  co.  Northampton,  10. 

 ,  Assheton  [co.  Lancaster],  334. 

 ,  CO.  Wilts,  397,  541,  562. 

 ,  Aston,  Long,  co.  Somerset,  577. 

A.sharst,  Asshehurst,  co.  Surrey,  457,  529. 
Ashwcll,  Asshewell,  co.  Hertford,  144,  367, 

433,  436,  452,  476,  597. 
Askam,  Ralph,  22. 
Aske,  Roger,  215. 

Askham  Bryan,  Brian  Askam,  co.  York,  483, 
487. 

Askrigg,  CO.  York,  21,  119. 
Aslackby,  Aslakby,  co,  Lincohi,  26,  385,  510, 
517. 

Aspall,  Aspales,  co.  Suffolk,  49. 
Aspatonam,  co.  Suffolk,  225,  326. 
Aspatria,  co.  Cumborlaod,  137. 
Aspendeu,  Aspden,  co.  Hertford,  203,  322. 
Asper,  Aspar,  Thomas,  572,  637. 
Asplon,  John,  245,  248,  609. 
Assh,  Asshe,  John,  60,  400. 

 ,  Richard,  154,  209. 

 Thomas,  166,  175,  276,470,  471,  524, 

554. 

 ,  ,  parson  of  Westou,  164. 

 ,  William,  523. 

Asshby,  Thomas,  53. 

  ..,   ,  warden   of   the  hospital  of 

Ospringe,  418. 
Asshe.    See  Ashow. 
Assheburn,  Henry,  130. 
Assheby,  Isabel,  80. 

 ,  John,  286. 

 ,  William,  405,  619. 

Asshecamys,  co.  Somerset,  534. 
Asshefeld,  John,  the  younger,  387. 
Assheforde,  John,  165. 

 ,  William,  165,  377. 

Assheley,  Edmund,  501. 

 Edward,  parson  of  Warnford,  499. 

Asshenden,  William,  abbot  of  Abingdon,  51, 

119. 

Asshetesford.  See  Ashford. 
Asuheton,  co.  Lancaster,  531. 

  And  see  Ashton. 

Assheton,  Aschtone,  Asshton,  Edward,  399. 
 ,  John,  426. 

 ,  Ralph,  102,  103,  166,  200,222,264, 

286,  287,  377,  408,  410,  426,  51.5, 
593. 

 ,  Richard,  abbot  of  Peterborough,  266, 

292,  418. 

 Thomas,  16. 

  And  see  Ayssheton. 

Asshettesford.    See  Ashford. 

Asshfeld,  John,  405. 

Asshton,  Edward,  parson  of  St.  Matthew, 
Ipswich,  597. 


I  Asshwell,  Robert,  334. 

 ,  Wilham,  562. 

Assyheford,  William,  253. 

Asteley,  John,  341,  525. 

 ,  Philip,  286. 

 ,  Thomas,  630. 

Asthorpe,  William,  343. 

Astley,  Asteley,  co.  Warwick,  348,  577. 

Aston,  CO.  Buckingham,  135. 

  by  Birmingham,  co.  Warwick,  226. 

 Cautlow,  CO.  Warwick,  175. 

 Sandford,  A  stoustanford,  co.  Bucking- 
ham, 472. 

  by  Stone,  co.  Salop,  304. 

  And  see  Ashton. 

 Astun,  Astyn,  Thomas,  346,  581. 

Atcombe,  Ralph,  404. 

Athebowe,  John,  578. 

Athelek,  John,  578. 

Atheliiey,  co.  Somerset,  abbot  of,  266. 

Athelstan,  king  of  England,  charter  of,  267. 

Atherton,  Athirton,  co.  Lancaster,  23,  382, 
498. 

Atherton,  Athirton,  John,  222,  286,  382,  498, 
515. 

 ,    sheriff  of  Durham  and  Sad- 
berg,  23. 

Attewarde.    See  Atworth. 

Attleborough,  Attilburgh,  co.  Norfolk,  149. 

Attorney-General.  See  Huddesfeld;  II use  ; 
Sotehill. 

Atworth,  Attewarde,  co.  Wilts,  500. 
Aubry,  John,  mayor  of  Nonvich,  197. 
Audeley,  Edmund,  parson  of  Llanbedr,  447. 

 ,  canon  of  Hereford,  448. 

 ,   ,  preben(lar_v  of  Lincoln,  296. 

 ,  Humphrey,  309,  483,  484. 

 Jane,  484. 

 John,  484. 

 lord  of,  22,  55,  56,  68,  69,  126, 

128,  162,  170,  195,  196,  199,  219,  220, 
266,  284,  287,  350,  351,  353,  411,  440, 
444,  483,  484,  490,  500,  520,  536,  542, 
548,  551,  573,  612,  613,  615,  627-630, 
632,  634-636. 

 ,  James  dc,  232,  242. 

 ,  Nicholas  de,  232,  242. 

 Thomas  de,  232,  242. 

Audemer,  John,  542. 

Audierue,  Odierne,  in  Brittany,  521. 

Auerey,  John,  344. 

 ,  Thomas,  158. 

Aufrey,  Yvo,  53. 

Auger,  Henry,  463,  491,  .524. 

Aughentons.    See  Alkingtou. 

Aukebargh.    See  Alkborough. 

Aulescombe.    See  Awliscorabe. 

Aulton.    See  Alton. 

Aumenerc,  Walter,  37. 

Auugesyu.    See  Augevyn. 

Aunsell,  William,  29. 


646 


GENERAL  INDEX. 


Auray,  Dawrey,  in  Brittany,  521,  605. 
Austell,  John,  254. 
Austhorpe,  co.  Lincoln,  56(i. 
Austyn,  Austen,  Auston,  Agnes,  435. 

 ,  John,  45,  160,  241,  266,  286,  293, 

435. 

Authorpe,  Arthorpe,  Awethorpe,  co.  Lincoln, 
26,  517. 

Auxerre,  diocese  of,  374. 

Avelghien,  lord  of.    See  Brugges. 

Avelyn,  Robert,  148. 

Avenel,  John,  343. 

Avenell,  Thomas,  60. 

 ,   ,  parson  of  Feuplingue,  125. 

Averey,  Henry,  493. 

Avon  river,  co.  Warwick,  64,  411. 

Av^'usbury,  co.  Hereford,  110. 

Awdeley.    See  Audeley. 

Awebrey,  John,  251. 

Awelde,  Richard,  286. 

Awethorp.    See  Authorpe. 

Awliscombe,  Aulescombe,  co.  Devon,  61,  99. 

Axebridge,  co.  Somerset,  502. 

Axholme,  Isle  of,  co.  Lincoln,  157,  428. 

 ,   ,  Carthusian  house  of  the  Visi- 
tation of  St.  Mary  in.    See  Ep-worth. 

Axstell,  Henry,  224. 

Axton,  Axstan,  co.  Kent,  hundred  of,  299, 
302. 

Ayhorne.    See  Eyhorne. 
Aykescarth.    See  Aysgarth. 
Aykroyd,  William,  343,  349. 
Aylemer,  Robert,  387. 

Aylesbeare,  Aillesbeare,  co.  Devon,  358,  376, 
457,  529. 

Aylesbury,  Alesbury,  co.  Buckingham,  33, 

38,  55,  56,  480. 
Aylesby,  co.  Lincoln,  142. 
Aylesford  [co.  Kent],  106. 
Aylesthorpe,  co.  Lincoln,  200,  310,  420,  518, 

523. 

Ayley,  William,  577. 
Ayleward,  Edward,  245. 
Ayle worth,  John,  7. 
Aylmestborpe.    See  Elmesthorpe. 
Aylsham,  co.  Norfolk,  387. 
Ayuderby.    See  Ainderby. 
Aynesford.    See  Eynsford. 
Aynetre.    See  Aiutree. 
Aynthorne.    See  Anthorn. 
Ay  Scheie,  Edward,  5. 
Aj-scogh,  Aysscogh,  John,  258,  621. 
Aysgarth,  Aykescarth,  co.  York,  483,  486, 
487. 

Aysly,  William,  350. 
Ayspryngton     See  Ashprington. 
Aysscogh.    See  Ayscogh. 
Aysserygge.    See  Ashridge. 
Aysshbury.    See  Ashbury. 
Aysshe,  Robert,  575. 


AysshehuU.    See  Ashill. 
Ayssheperton.    See  Ashburton. 
Ayssheton,  Edward,  610. 

 ,  John,  493. 

  ..,  Ralph,  55,  637  . 

 ,   ,  sheriff  of  York,  316. 

  And  see  Assheton  ;  i\.yston. 

Aysshfeld,  John,  the  younger,  93. 
Aysshowe,  Laurence,  141. 

..,  Marjory,  142. 

 ,  Nicholas,  141. 

 ,  Richard,  141 . 

 ,  Robert,  141. 

Ayston,  Edward,  351. 

 ,  Ralph,  349. 

 ,  Richard,  594. 

Aythorp,  Thomas,  406. 

Aythorpe  Roding,   Aytroppe   Rodyng,  co. 
Esssx,  115,  116,  318. 


B. 

Baas,  Base,  Boxe,  co.  Hertford,  123,  262 

Babbe,  John,  78. 

Babbecombe,  co.  Devon,  II. 

Babbecombe,  William,  11. 

Babford.    See  Bayford. 

Babham,  Thomas,  222, 

Babthorpe,  co.  York,  313. 

Babthorpe,  Ralph,  313. 

Babyn,  Raulet,  333. 

Babyngtou,  John,  625. 

 ,  William,  199,  407,  410,  479,  625. 

 ,  ,  chief  justice  of  the  Common 

Bench,  131. 

Baceford.    See  Basford. 

Bache,  de  la,  Ralph,  357. 

Bacon,  John,  102,  569. 

Baconsthorpe,  co.  Norfolk,  191. 

Bacster,  John,  43.'). 

Badby,  Henry,  G06. 

 ,  John,  568. 

 ,  William,  345, 

Badcok,  John,  the  elder,  579, 

 ,   ,  the  younger,  579. 

 ,  Richard,  579. 

Baddeleston.    See  Battlesden. 

Baddesley,  co.  Southampton,  William  Tour- 
nay,  preceptor  of,  217. 

Badelmere,  B.  de,  561. 

Badgeworth,  Baggeworth,  co.  Gloucester,  397, 
541,  562. 

Badlesmere,  Batillesmere,  co.  Kent,  560. 
Badmyuton,  John,  13. 
Badyngham,  Robert,  576. 


GENERAL  INDKX. 


647 


Bafyn,  William,  parson  of  St.  John,  Madder- 
market,  Norwich,  21. 

Bagby,  John,  487. 

Eager,  John,  452. 

Bagge,  Richard,  260. 

Baggeworth.    See  Badgewoith. 

Baginton,  Bathekjngton,  co.  Warwick,  153. 

Bagot,  John,  228,  237. 

 ,  Richard,  351,  407,  630. 

Bagshotes  Baillye,  in  Windsor  forest,  452. 

Baguley,  Nicholas,  400. 

 ,  ,  Joan  his  wife,  400. 

Bagworth,  Robert,  80. 

Bailly,  John,  147. 

 ,  Julian,  475. 

 ,  Robert,  417. 

 .Roger,  351,  630. 

Baily,  Bayly,  Robert,  sub-prior  of  the  Hospital 
of  St.  John  of  Jerusalem  in  England, 
231,  232. 

Bainbridge,  Baynbrig,  co.  York,  483,  486, 
487. 

Bainton,  Bayntou,  co.  York,  102,  354. 
Baker,  Edmund,  151. 

 ,  Garard,  496. 

 ,  Henry,  325. 

 ,  John,  39,  144,  329,  366,  374,  406, 

475,  504,  569. 

 Nicholas,  142. 

 ,  Richard,  128,  422. 

 Robert,  6,  501. 

 Thomas,  168. 

 ,   ,  parson  of  Bramfield,  132. 

 ,   ,  parson  of  King's  Ripton,  132. 

 ,  William,  53,  324,  430,  435. 

 ,  ,  chaplain  of  Mortimer's  chantry 

in  Chichester  cathedral,  550. 

 ,   parson  of  Petworth,  550. 

Bakster,  Peter,  585. 
Balached,  John,  323. 
Balara.    See  Balhani. 
Balam,  Thomas,  325. 
 ,  William,  210. 

Balance,  Balaznench  (in  Finistere),  in  Brit- 
tany, 474. 

Balard.    See  Ballard. 

Balateston.    See  Balsdon. 

Balaznench.    See  Balance. 

Balderton,  co.  Nottingham,  576. 

Baldewyn,  John,  152,  302,  357. 

 ,  Richard,  502. 

Baldock,  co.  Hertford,  77,  325,  440. 

Baldon  Marsh,  Mersshbaldyugton,  co.  Oxford, 
534,  584. 

Baldry,  Baldre,  Robert,  318,  355. 

 William,  171,  184,  308. 

Baldyswell.    See  Bawdeswell. 

Balham,  Balam,  co.  Surrey,  308. 

Ball,  Balle,  John,  255,  395,  551. 

Ballard,  Robert,  462,  463. 


Balliall,  John,  king  of  Scots,  228,  236. 
Balnebek,  co.  York,  179. 
Balscadan,  co.  Du  )lin,  20,  279,  419. 
Balsdon,  Balatesti-a  (in  Kentbury),  co.  Berks, 
419. 

Balston.    See  Balsdon, 
Baly,  John,  406. 

Bamburgh,  co.  Northumberland,  90,  114,  181, 

258,  290,  328,  335. 

 ,  burgesses  of,  114. 

Bamme,  John,  101,  284,  391,  445,  463,  618. 

Bamnench.    See  Bannec. 

Bampton,  Brampton,  co.  Oxford,  397,  400, 

421,  541,  562. 

 ,  hundred  of,  541. 

Banastre,  Banaster,  John,  parson  of  Papworth 

Everard,  174,  332. 

 ,  Giles,  257. 

 ,  Philippa,  499. 

  llalph,  escheator  of  Southampton  and 

Wilts,  402. 

 ,  Roland,  319. 

 ,  Thomas,  252. 

 ,  Thurstan,  257. 

Banathelek.    See  Bonallack. 

Banbury,  Bannebury,  co.  Oxford,  9,  79,  80, 

503. 

 letters  patent  dated  at,  207,  611,  614, 

628,  635. 
Banbury,  John,  576. 

 ,  William,  416. 

Baneston,  John,  257. 
Banford.    See  Bayford. 
Bangolf,  Thomas,  74. 

Bangor,  bishop  of.    See  Edenham  ;  Swafham- 

 ,  dean  of.    See  Morgan. 

 ,  diocese  of,  122,  304,  335. 

Banham,  Master  Richard,  5. 
Bank,   Christopher,  par8on  of  Chelmsfotd, 
504. 

 ,  parson  of  Scrayingham,  504. 

 ,  Joan,  397. 

Banke,  Richard,  580. 

 Thomas,  166,  491. 

Bankhous,  Thomas,  5. 
Banne  river,  in  Ireland,  395. 
Bannec,  Bamnench  (in  Finistere),  in  Brittany, 
474. 

Banstead,  Benstede,  co.  Surrey,  237,  241,  528. 

Banwell,  co.  Somerset,  72. 

Banyard,  John,  249. 

Banyngham,  Robert,  576. 

Barantyne.    See  Barentyne. 

Barbaur,  William,  223. 

Barbour,  Barboure,  John,  144,  432. 

 ,   ,  master    of    the    hospital  of 

St.  Mary,  Dover,  16. 

 ,  Nicholas,  210,  378. 

 ,  Ralph,  4. 

 ,  Richard,  501. 


648 


GENERAL  INDEX. 


Barbour,  Thomas,  4,  573. 

 ,  Walter,  parson  of  Alvescott,  333. 

Barby,  Berneghby,  co.  Northampton,  327. 
Earcombe,  Bercompe,  Barkham,  co.  Sussex, 

18,  192. 
Bardes,  Adrian  de,  12. 

 ,  Bernard  de,  12. 

 John  de,  239. 

Bardesey,  Eobert,  179. 

Bardestaple.    See  Barnstaple. 

Bardfield,  co.  Essex,  538. 

Bardoce,  Laurence,  1 60. 

Bardolfes,  co.  Hertford,  531. 

Bardsea,  Berdeshey,  co.  Lancaster,  456. 

Barefoote,  John,  41. 

Barell,  Robert,  53. 

Barentyne,  Barantyne,  John,  248,  249,  626. 
Baret,  Barette,  John,  48,  102,  203,  305,  319, 

322,  389. 

 ,  ,  Thomas,  141,  442. 

Barford,  Bereford,  co.  Wilts,  220. 

 ,  St.  Martin,  534,  582. 

Barham,  Berham,  co.  Kent,  433. 
Barkeley.    See  Berkeley. 
Barker,  John,  139,  318. 

 Thomas,  143,  323. 

 ,   parson  of  Petworth,  550. 

 ,   ,  chaplain  of  Mortimer's  chantry 

in  Chichester  cathedral,  550. 

 ,  William,  2,  378. 

Barkeswell.    See  Berkeswell. 
Barkham.    See  Earcombe. 
Barking,  Eerkyng,  co.  Essex,  360. 

 ,  abbey  of,  388,  391. 

 ,  convent  of,  388. 

 ,  Katharine  de  la  Pole,  abbess  of,  388. 

 ,  Dame  Elizabeth  Laxham,  abbess  of, 

388,  391. 

 ,  .abbess  and  convent  of,  119, 

Barkley.    See  Beckley. 

Barkston,  Barkeston,  co.  Leicester,  27,  517. 

Barley,  co.  York,  179,  307,  419. 

Barley,  Henry,  182,  199,  250,  285,  350,  407, 

617. 

 ,  Eobert,  147,  320. 

Barling,  co.  Essex,  154. 
Barlo-we,  Eobert,  385. 
Early,  William,  272,  274. 
Barming,  Bermyng,  co.  Kent,  93. 
Barnaby  on  Don,  Barnby  on  Dun,  co.  York, 
148. 

Barnaby,  Barueby,  John,  218,  346,  518,  530. 

Barnack,  co.  Northampton,  203. 

Barnard,  Eustace,  prior  of  Eavenstone,  343. 

 John,  406,  624. 

 ,  Eobert,  490. 

 ,  William,  287. 

Barnardiston,  co.  Suffolk,  89. 
Barnbow,  co.  York,  316. 


Barneby.    See  Barnaby. 

Barnes,  Thomas,  36,  332. 

Barnet,  battle  of,  298,  336,  444,  470,  585. 

Barnet,  Eichard,  222. 

Barnewell,  John,  325. 

Barney,  Elizabeth,  423. 

Barnfield,  Bernefylde,  co.  Kent,  hundred  of, 
301. 

Bamham  Broom,  Bernham  Brome,  co.  Nor- 
folk, 562. 

Barningham,  Branyngljam,  co.  Norfolk,  191. 

 ,  Eernyngham  [co.  York.],  483,  487. 

Barnstaple,  Bernestaple,  co.  Devon,  7,  32,  77, 

137,  141,  168,  169,  443. 

 ,  port  of,  113,  393. 

Earnston,  Barnyston,  co.  Nottingham,  434. 
Barnwell,  Bernewell  [co.  Cambridge] ,  priory 

of,  477,  481. 

 ,   ,  convent  of,  476. 

 ,   ,  John  Whaddon,  prior  of,  476. 

 ,   ,  William  Tebald,  prior  of,  477, 

481. 

Baron,  John,  185,  223,  286. 

 ,  ,  chaplain  of  Farleigh  Hunger 

ford,  151. 

 ,  ,  parson  of  Chilton,  151. 

 ,  Philip,  359. 

 ,  Eichard,  230. 

 ,  William,  149,  286,  472. 

Barough.    See  Barowe. 
Barowe.    -See  Barrow. 

Earow,  Thomas,  parson  of  Cottingham,  369. 
Barowe,  Barough,  Eichard,  605. 

 Walter,  57,  196,  219,  220. 

 ,  William,  286. 

Barowes,  Eichard,  490. 
Earras,  Brenger,  333. 
Barre,  Great,  co.  Stafford,  143. 
Barre,  Ankaret,  425. 

 ,  Elizabeth,  425. 

 ,  Isabel,  425. 

 ,  Joan,  425. 

 ,  John,  219,  220,  425,  429,  430,  450, 

453,  463,  464,  505,  616. 

 ,   ,  Joan  his  wife,  425. 

 ,  Edouia  his  wife,  425. 

 Thomas,  the  elder,  425. 

 ,   ,  Elizabeth  his  wife,  425. 

 ,  Thomas,  the  younger,  425. 

 ,  ,  Alice  his  wife,  425. 

Barret,  John,  293,  515. 

Barrington,  Baryngton,  co.  Somerset,  533. 

Barrow,  Barowe,  co.  Leicester,  26,  27,  517. 

 ,  CO.  Lincoln,  382. 

 Barwe,  co.  Suffolk,  14. 

Barrus,  John,  parson  of  Pertenhall,  142. 
Barry,  John,  104. 

Barsham,  Burshamwelle,  co.    Norfolk,  93, 
387. 

Barisonhowson,  Walter,  513. 


GEN'ERAL  INDEX, 


649 


Barstable,  Berstaple,  co.  Essex,  hundred  of, 

62,  531,  556. 
Barsworth,  Thomas,  287. 
Bartelot,  Thomas,  431. 
Bartillesden.    See  Basildon. 
Barton,  Berton,  co.  Buckingham,  33. 

 ,  CO.  Lincoln,  596. 

 ,  CO.  Westmoreland,  96. 

 in  the  Clay,  co.  Bedford,  507. 

  on  Humber,  co.  Lincoln,  458,  530. 

 by  Gloucester,  341. 

 Pyncanye.    See  Earl's  Barton. 

 in  Henmerssh,  co.  Warwick,  323. 

Barton,  Conand,  223. 
 ,  John,  316. 

 ,  ,  mayor  of  Hereford,  148. 

 ,  ,  the  elder,  112. 

 ,  ,  the  younger,  112,  390. 

 ,  ,  Isabel  his  wife,  112,  390. 

 ,  Richard,  223. 

 ,  Thomas,  606. 

 ,  William,  256,  272,  276,  444,  575. 

Barvyle,   Master  John,  penitentiary  in  St. 

Paul's  cathedral,  London,  460. 
Barwe.    See  Barrow. 
Barwick,  Berewyc,  co.  York,  367. 
Bascarvile.    See  Baskervile. 
Base.    See  Baas. 
Baseley,  Robert,  491,  524. 
Basford,  Baceford,  co.  Nottingham,  441,  482. 
Basildon,  Bartillesden,  co.  Essex,  344. 
Basing,  co.  Southampton,  130,  558. 
Basingle,  co.  Huntingdon,  141. 
Basingstoke,  co.  Southampton,  443. 
Baskervile,  Bascarvile,  Baskefyld,  James,  3, 

54,  58,  198,  219,  220,  284,  289,  350, 

407,  429,  580,  616. 

 ,  John,  615. 

Basse,  John,  6. 

Basset,  John,  104,  203,  433. 

 ,  Ralph,  357. 

 Robert,  222,  307,  511. 

 ,   ,  mayor  of  London,  597. 

 ,  Thomas,  246,  248,  632. 

 ,  William,  219,  351,  407,  630. 

 ,  proctor,  master  or  warden  of 

Goddeshous,  Cambridge,  130. 
Bassetes  Courte  in  Shawe,  co.  Wilts,  533. 
Bassewell,  Thomas,  481. 
Bassiugbourn,  Basyngbourn  [co.  Cambridge], 

73. 

Bastard  of  Bretaigne,  Edward  the,  185. 
Bastard,  Thomas,  60. 
Bastou,  CO.  Lincoln,  41. 
Bastyngdcn,  co.  Berks,  93. 
Basworth,  Thomas,  286. 
Basyng,  Edward,  115. 
Basyngburn.    See  Bassingbourn. 
Basyngham.    Set  Besiingham. 


Bataill,  Edmund,  254. 

 ,  John,  393. 

Bate,  Baty,  Christopher,  635. 

 ,  John,  dean  of  the  collegiate  church  of 

Tamworth,  48. 

 ,  Margaret,  108. 

 ,  Richard  3. 

 ,  Robert,  76,  598. 

 ,  Thomas,  233,  350,  610,  635. 

Batell,  John,  301. 

 ,  William,  parson  of  Stanton  St.  John, 

498,  578. 

Bateman,  Thomas,  parson  of  Ivinghoe,  394, 

 ,  Williara,  319. 

Baten,  Richard,  6. 

  And  see  Batyn. 

Baterssey.    See  Battersea. 
Bates,  .John,  159. 

Bateson,  Batson,  Thomas,  409,  496, 
Bath,  496. 

 prior  and  convent  of,  65. 

 ,  Thomas,  prior  of,  10. 

 ,  John,  prior  of,  65,  628. 

Bath  and  Wells,  diocese  of,  14,  15,  96,  151, 

260,  305,  347,  476. 

 bishop  of.    Sec  Stillington. 

Bathe,  Thomas,  lord  of  Louth,  193. 
Batheaston,  Uutheneston,  co.  Somerset,  211. 

457,  530. 
Bathekyngton.    See  Baginton. 
Batillesden.    See  Battlesden. 
Batrichesey.    See  Battersea. 
Batson.    Sec  Bateson. 
Batte,  John,  340,  393,  453,  592. 
Batter,  Thomas,  146. 

Battersea,    Batrichesey    [co.    Surrey],  276, 
308. 

Battle,  CO.  Sussex,  John,  abbot  of,  294. 
Battlesden,   Batillesden,    Baddelestou  [co. 

Bedford],  56,  205. 
Baty.    See  Bate. 

Batyn,  Baten,  John,  286,  287,  305,  498. 
Batys,  Thomas,  286. 
Bauelingham,  in  Picardy,  457,  529. 
Baunton,  94. 

Bawde,  Bawede,  John,  498. 

 ,  Ralph,  182,  199,  250,  616. 

 ,  Robert,  250. 

Bawdcswell,  lialdyswell,  co.  Norfolk,  80, 
IJawdewyn,  John,  525. 
Bawdrip,  Bawderyppe.  co.  Somerset,  187. 
Bawtry,  Bautrc,  co.  York,  77. 
Baxter,  Henry,  rector  of  St.  Ewin  within 
Newgate,  Loudon,  38(>. 

 ,  Robert,  380. 

  William,  504. 

Baxster,  John,  435. 

 ,  ,  the  elder,  285. 

 ,  Simon,  381. 

 ,  Thomas,  84. 


650 


GENERAL  INDEX. 


Bay,  William,  202, 

Baycliff,  Belclyfe,  co.  Lancaster,  456. 

Bayen,  Thomas,  553. 

Bayford,  Babford,  Banford,  co.  Kent,  198. 
Bayly,  Baylly,  John,  255. 

 ,  Richard,  606. 

 ,  Robert,  323,  581. 

 ,  Roger,  407. 

 ,  Thomas,  118. 

 ,  William,  rector  of  Mathon,  3. 

Baylyford,  co.  Devon,  24,  51. 
Baynard,  Robert,  374,  408,  428,  463. 
Baynbrig.    See  Baiubridge. 
Baynham,  Thomas,  220,  349,  407,  615. 
Baynton,  John,  584. 

 Robert,  524,  534,  584,  585. 

 ,  Elizabeth  his  wife,  584,  585. 

  And  see  Beynton. 

Baynton.    See  Bainton. 
Bayonne,  in  Aquitaine,  559. 

 ship  called  le  Martyn  of,  559. 

Bayte,  Richard,  581. 
Bay  worth,  John,  2. 
Bazainsula.    See  Isle  de  Batz. 
Beachampton,  Bechampton,  co.  Buckingham, 
254. 

Beale,  John,  236. 
Bealfeld,  Alexander,  143. 
Bealknap,  Beleknap,  Robert,  371. 
Beam,  Beme,  co.  Devon,  36. 
Beare,  Ralph,  81. 

Beauchamp  Roding,  co.  Essex,  290. 
Beauchamp,  Elizabeth,  countess  of  Warwick, 
207. 

 ,  Henry,  duke  of  Warwick,  232. 

 ,  Isabel,  countess  of  Warwick,  67. 

,  ,  John,  247,  429,  465. 

 ,   ,  of  Beauchamp,  497,  526. 

 ,  ,  of  Powyk,  349,  350,  614,  636. 

,  ,  Richard,  101,  183,  219,  220,  284,  315, 

349,  350,  406,  407,  429,  448,  454, 
465,  614,  636. 

 ,  ,  earl  of  Warwick,  207. 

 ,  ,  bishop   of  Salisbury  [1450- 

1481],  15,  16,  31,  91,  115,  116,  123, 
125,  179,  220,  231,  283,  240,  241,  245, 
278,  279,  296,  306,  311,  368,  371,  374, 
404,  412,  535,  539,  540,  543,  550,  553, 
554,  561-563,  566,  573,  596,  608,  613, 
628,  635. 

 ,  chancellor  of  the  Order  of  the 

Garter,  554. 
Beaudeley.    See  Bewdley. 
Beaufeys,  John,  218. 
Beaufitz,  John,  348,  405,  421,  606,  634. 

 ,  William,  144,  178,  376. 

Beaufo,  Humphrey,  211. 

...   ,  Richard,  211. 

Beaufort,  Edmund,  139. 

 duke  of  Somerset,  94,  179. 


Beaufort,  Eleanor,  duchess  ot  Somerset,  86, 

94,  100,  139,  169. 

 ,  Henry,  duke  of  Somerset,  31,  36,  66, 

95,  108,  121,  139,  179,  445,  446. 

 ,  John,  earl  of  Somerset,  343. 

 ,  duke  of  Somerset,  339,  343. 

 ,  Margaret,  duchess  of  Somerset,  294, 

508. 

Beaule.    See  Bewle. 

Beaumaner,  co.  Leicester,  27,  517. 

Beaumaris,  co.  Anglesea,  54,  165,  524, 

 ,  burgesses  of,  115. 

 ,  port  of,  524. 

 ,  letters  patent  dated  at,  134. 

Beaumont,  Bemond,  co.  Essex,  297,  560. 
Beaumont,  Henry,  284,  286,  347. 

 ,  Eleanor  his  wife,  347. 

 ,  Henry,  sheriff  of  Stafford,  347. 

 ,  escheator  of  Worcester,  347. 

 ,  John,  403,  404,  576. 

 ,  ,  lord,  200,  310. 

 ,  ,  Katharine  his  wife,  200. 

 ,  Philip,  105,  169,  171,  204,  219,  220, 

284,  351,  407,  427,  612. 

 ,   ,  sheriff  of  Devon,  168. 

 ,  Thomas,  491. 

 ,  William,  418. 

 ,   ,  lord  Bardolf,  418. 

 ,  ,  lord,  18,  19,  22,  26,  34,  36,  40, 

117,  132,  200,  310,  413,  531. 

 ,  Joan  his  wife,  34,  117,  132,  310. 

Beaumont  Fee,  co.  Lincoln,  518,  523. 
Beaupe,  David,  588. 

Beaupie,  Reginald,  parion  of  Llanddowyn, 
335. 

Beauripper,  co.  Cornwall,  603. 
Beaushyn,  William,  500. 
Beauvoir.    See  Belvoir. 
Beccle»,  co.  Suffolk,  226,  384,  502. 
Bechampton.    See  Beachampton. 
a  Becket,  Thomas,  archbishop  of  Canterbury, 
131. 

Beckham,  Bekham,  co.  Norfolk,  2. 
 ,  East,  2. 

Beckington,  Bekynton,  co.  Somerset,  367. 

Beckley,  Barkley,  co.  Oxford,  56. 

Bedale,  John,  prebendary  of  Chichester,  551. 

 ,  prebendary  of  St.  Stephen's, 

Westminster,  551. 

 ,  Master  William,  prebendary  of  Bridg- 
north, 332. 

Bedall,  John,  571. 

Beddington,  Bedyngton,  co.  Surrey,  38,  357. 
Bedebay.    See  Bude  Bay. 
Bedefeld,  Henry,  597. 
Bedell,  Richard,  148. 
Beddenham.    See  Biddenham. 
Bedewynde.    See  Bedwin. 

Bedfont,  East,  Estbedfount,  co.  Middleeex, 
42. 


GENERAL  INDEX. 


651 


Bedford,  Redford,  CO.  Bedford,  79,  1  18,241, 
542,  570. 

 ,  St.  John  Baptist,  prior  and  canons 

of,  13. 
 ,  CO.  Lincoln,  12. 

Bedford,  county  of,  25,  37,  40,52,168,170, 
!91,  195,  211,  218,  232,  233,  266,  285, 
289,  329,  346,  348,  349,  421,  428,  444, 
462,  492,  496,  508,  540,  562,  565. 

  ,  sheriff  of,  168,285,  349,  492. 

  And  see  Molyueux. 

 ,  ,  escheator  in,  98,  123,  191,  271, 

292,  330,  332,  391,  400,  475,  597. 

  And  see  Oxbrigge  ;  Holcote  ;  Gate  ; 

Fowler;  Wade. 

 ,   ,  outlawry  in,  6,  8-11,  81,  142, 

143,  204,  254,  322,  323,  326,  380,  381, 
437,  499,  501,  503,  564,  576. 

 ,   ,  subsidy  and  ulnage  of  cloth  in, 

329,  348,  478. 

 ,  ,  commissions  of  the  peace  in, 

607. 

Bedford,  John,  251,  287. 

 ,  Richard,  146,  320,  472. 

 ,  Margaret  his  wife,  320. 

Bedham.    See  Dedham. 
Bedhampton,  co.  Southampton,  5. 
Bedminster  [co.  Somerset],  139. 
Bedon,  Bedown,  Bedun,  Master  John,  11. 
Bedwell,  Bedewell,  co.  Hertford,  114. 
Bedwin,  Bedewynde,   co.   Wilts,   243,  458, 
530. 

Bedyll,  Henry,  322. 

 ,   ,  Margaret  his  wife,  322. 

 ,  Richard,  578. 

 ,  Thomas,  301. 

Bedyngfeld,  Edmund,  595. 

 ,  Anne,  595. 

 ,  Margaret,  595. 

 Thomas,  595. 

Beeleigh  by  Maiden,  co.  Essex,  St.  Nicholas, 
abbot  and  convent  of,  364. 

 ,  William,  abbot  of,  364. 

Beell,  John,  542. 
Beelle,  Thomas,  277. 
Beer,  295. 

Beerton.    See  Bierton  ;  Bourtou. 
Beeston.    See  Boston. 
Begard,  Bekart,  Thomas,  481. 
Begger,  co.  York,  alien  priory  of,  282,  304, 
328. 

Beggeworth.    See  Hadgcworth. 
Beghton.    See  Beighton. 
Begonell,  Thomas,  350. 
Begynhill.    See  Buckuell. 
Beighton,  Beghton,  co.  Derby  435. 
Bekart.    See  Begard. 

Bek,  Anthony,  bishop  of  Norwich  [1337- 

1343],  459,  539. 
Beke,  P«ter,  224. 
Bekele.    See  Bexley. 


Bekesbourn*,  co.  Kent,  303. 
Bekeswell.    See  Bexwell. 
Beket,  .John,  200. 
Bekham.    S«e  Beckham. 
Bekley,  Roger,  163. 

...   ,  William,  526,  552. 

Bekynton.    See  Beckington. 

Bekyrton,  .John,  432. 

Belamy,  John,  501. 

Belchalwell,  Belle,  co.  Dorset,  92. 

Belchamp,  John,  467. 

Belchford  [co,  Lincoln],  286,  508. 

Belclyfe.    See  Bayclitt'. 

Bele,  Hamo,  407. 

 John,  75,  826. 

 ,  Richard,  295,  415. 

Beleknap.    See  Bealknap. 
Belgard,  in  Ireland,  592,  598. 

Belknap,  William,  97,  46S. 

Bell,  Ingelram,  201. 

 ,  Robert,  500. 

 ,  John,  565. 

 ,  Thomas,  214. 

 Matthew,  215. 

 ,  William,  215. 

Bellars,  John,  89. 

Belle.    See  Belchalwell. 

Belle,  Henry,  443. 

 John,  287. 

Belleau,  Hallowe,  co.  Lincoln,  508,  525. 

Belle  Isle,  in  France,  198. 

Beller,  Roger,  242. 

Bellers,  John,  199,  619. 

Belletour,  Thomas,  415. 

Belloc[ampo],  Hugh  de,  13. 

Bellover.    See  Belvoir. 

Belluton,  Belton,  Bellewton,  co.  Somerset,  83, 

457,  530. 
Bellingham,  Simon,  73. 

Bellyngham,  Thomas,  rector  of  Sutton  on 

Derwent,  299. 
Belowed,  Thomas,  356. 
Belsy,  William,  79. 
Belton,  CO.  Leicester,  580. 

  And  see  Belluton. 

Belton,  John,  609. 

Belvoir,    Beauvor,    Bellover,    Bevour,  co. 
Leicester,  27,  517. 

 ,  priory  of,  27,  517. 

Belwode,  Thomas,  428. 
Belyngeham,  Alexander,  288. 

 ,  Christopher,  288. 

 ,  Henry,  45,  98,  288. 

 ,  James,  288. 

 Roger,  288. 

Beme.    See  Beam. 
Bemond.    See  Beaumont. 

Bemyster,  Roger,  abbot  of  Cerne,  240  241 
372,  279. 


652 


GENERAL  INDEX. 


Benam.    See  Binhamy. 

Benbury,  William,  318,  453,  487. 

Bench,  Common,  justices  of,  1-11,  16,  20,21, 
37,  38,  51,  52,  72-82,  93,  94,  99,  119, 
122,  141-149,  154,  157,  163,  164,  173, 
178,  202-204,  224,  320-327,  364, 
380-386,  413,  431-437,  444,  477,  482, 
498-504,  513,  564,  574-582. 

 ,        ,  chief  justice  of.  See  Babyngton  ; 

Bryan  ;  Danby  ;  Pry  sot ;  Neuton. 

 ,   ,   justices   of.      See  Ardern ; 

Bereford  ;  Choke  ;  Juyn  ;  Littelton  ; 
Moyle  ;  Nedeham  ;  Neel  ;  Norton  ; 
Scrope  ;  Stanton  ;  Thirnyng ;  Triking- 
ham ;  Yonge. 

 ,   ,  office  of  chirography  in,  376. 

 ,   ,  keeper  of  the  -writs  and  rolls  of. 

See  Fogge. 

Bench,  King's,  11. 

 ,   ,  justices  of,  11,  444,  513,  574. 

 ,          chief  justice  of.    See  Markham  ; 

Billyng. 

 ,   ,  justices  of.     See  Byngham  ; 

Laken  ;  Nedeham ;  Neel  ;  Yelverton  ; 
Yonge  ; 

 ,  ,  crier  in.  Se«  Stathom  ;  Prinket ; 

Tankard. 

 ,  ,  coroner  and  attorney  in.  See 

Croxton  ;  West ;  Vynter. 
Bendell,  John.  277. 
Bendyssh,  Thomas,  369. 
Benesse.    See  Venasque. 
Benestede.    See  Banstead. 
Benesworth.    See  Binswood. 
Benet,  Benett,  Beunet,  Alexander,  214,  277. 

 ,  Edmund,  581. 

 ,  Henry,  251,  287. 

 ,  John,  4,  18,  40,  61,  11.5,  399,  499. 

 ,  the  elder,  286. 

 Nicholas,  53. 

..........  Peter,  323. 

 ,  Richard,  336,  434. 

 ,Eobert,  254,  591. 

 ,  Thomas,  6,  355,  409. 

 ,  William,  parson  of  Etton,  21. 

Benger,  John,  635. 

Benham  Hoe,  Helbenham,  co.  Berks,  242. 

 -..  Lovell,  CO.  Berks,  242. 

Benne,  Thomas,  224. 
Bennet.    See  Benet. 

Bennington,  Benyngdon,  co.  Hertford,  575. 
Bensted,  John,  270. 
Benstede.    See  Banstead. 
Bentele,  William,  384. 
Benteley,  Christopher,  355,  356,  378. 
Bentley,  Benteley,  co.  Essex,  297,  543,  547, 
563,  567. 

 ,  Great,  532. 

 ,  Little,  345. 

 ,  CO.  York,  207. 

Benwick,  co.  Cambridge,  169,  I'O. 


Beny,  Thomas,  224. 
Benyll,  Richard,  144. 
Berastegni  [in  Spain],  480. 
Bercompe.    See  Barcombe. 
Berdefeld,  John,  157. 
Berdeshey.    See  Bardsea. 
Berdwell,  William,  the  younger,  343. 

 ,  ,  Elizabeth,  his  wife,  343. 

Bere,  co.  Devon,  149. 

  Kingesbere,  Westbere,   co.  South- 
ampton, forest  of,  97. 
Bere,  George,  568. 
 ,  Ralph,  337. 

 ,  Thomas,  51,  246,  263,  286,  554,  610. 

 ,  William,  102,  169,  355. 

 ,  de  la,  Delabere,  Richard,  430,  450  > 

463. 

Bereford.    See  Barford. 

 ,  William  de,  601. 

 ,   ,  justice  of  the  Bench,  100,  465. 

Berell,  Robert,  569. 
...  ......  Walter,  76. 

Berestaple.    See  Barstaple. 

Berewe,  John,  433. 

Bereworth,  Alice,  215. 

Berewyc.    See  Barwick. 

Berford.    See  Barford. 

Bergevenny,  557. 

Bergeveuy,  Philip,  7. 

Bergli,  Edith,  abbess  of  Wilton,  231,  296. 

Bergholt,  co.  Suffolk,  590. 

Berham.    See  Barham  ;  Burham. 

Berkeley,  co.  Gloucester,  303,  328. 

 ,  Berkelaiharnesse,  328. 

Berkeley,  Barkeley,  Edward,  52,  88,  196,  220. 

318,  351.  356,  405,  429,  495,  551,  552, 

569,  615,  629. 

 ,  John,  210,  354,  378. 

 ,  Maurice,  56,  100,  128,  196,  220,  284, 

309,  318,  351,  356,  361,  374,  391,  404, 

405,  417,  429,  635. 
 ,   ,  of  Beverston,  219,  349,  351, 

407,  614,  629. 

 ,   ,  of  Wetley,  5. 

 ,  Thomas,  126,  199,  284,  313,  350,  405, 

619,  626. 

  William,  54,  303,  429,  447,  490,  495, 

669,  571,  578,  629,  636. 
 ,   ,  of  Berkeley,  195,  219,  251,  303, 

614,  615,629. 

 ,  Maurice  de,  328. 

 ,  Robert  de,  328. 

 ,  Thomas  de,  328. 

 ,  William,  lord  of,  328. 

Berkeswell,  Barkeswell,  co.  Warwick,  49,  331. 
Berkeswell,  William,  77. 
Berkham.    See  Barcombe. 

Berkhampstead,  co.  Hertford,  151,  439,  447, 
563,  599. 

 Little,  114. 


GENERAL  INDEX. 


653 


Berks,  county  of,  25,  36,  85,  90,  91,  159,  196, 
218,  222,  232,  287,  289,  329,  347,  349, 
406,  430,  452,  462,  492,  496,  562,  599. 

 sheriff  of,  29,  93,  118,  242,  244,  287, 

289,  349,  406,  492,  565. 

  And  see  Elmerugge  ;  Wykehani. 

 ,  escheator  in,  123,  241,  278,  359,  391. 

597. 

  And  see  Hyde ;  Fowler. 

 ,  outlawries  iu,  2,  7,  75,  77,  80,  142, 

147,  256,  382-384. 
 ,  subsidy  and  ulnage  of  cloth  in,  238, 

329,  347,  478,  482. 

 ,  commissions  of  the  peace  in,  607. 

Berlyng.    See  Birling. 

Bermondsey,  co.  Surrey,  abbey  of  St.  Saviour, 

390,  415,  418. 

 ,  ,  conveut  of  387. 

 ,  abbot  of,  509. 

 ,  .....  .  Dan  John  Say  alias  Bromley, 

abbot  of,  387,  390. 
 ,  Dan  John  Marlow,  abbot  of, 

388,  390. 

 ,  ,  John,  abbot  of,  10,  462,  463. 

Bermyng.    See  Barraing. 
Bermyngeham.    See  Birmingham. 
Bernard,  John,  157,  267,  624. 

 ,  Thomas,  8. 

 ,  ,  Joan  his  wife,  8. 

Bernefylde.    See  Barnfield. 

Berueghby.    See  Barby. 

Bernestaple.    See  Banistaple. 

Bernestowne.    See  Burneston. 

Bernet.    See  Barnet. 

Bernewell.    See  Barnwell. 

Bernewell,  John,  325,  383. 

Bernewode,  co.  Buckingham,  forest  of,  159. 

Berney,  John,  197. 

Bernham.    See  Barnham. 

Bernyngham.    See  Baruingham. 

Berstaple.    See  Barstable. 

Bersted,  co.  Kent,  147,  438. 

Berteiot,  John,  251. 

Berton  [co.  Gloucester],  112,  163,  481,  588. 

  And  see  Barton. 

Berton  Bristol,  co.  Gloucester,  232. 

 hundred  of,  232. 

Bertram,  James,  168. 

 William,  36,  116,  122. 

Berumond.    See  Beaumont. 

Berwick,  in  Scotland,  556. 

Berwick  on  Tweed,  charter  dated  at,  1 1 5. 

Berwyke,  Peter,  321. 

Bery,  John,  76. 

 ,  Thomas,  499. 

 William,  323. 

 ,  ,  Margaret  his  wife,  323. 

Beryn,  Beron,  John,  575. 

Bcryton,  Simon,  parson  of  Peuplingue,  125. 

BeBeby,  Tiiomas,  mayor  of  Liucohi,  315. 


Besege,  Richard,  442. 
Beskewode.    See  Bestwoo  . 
Bessingham,  Basyngham,  co.  Norfolk,  191. 
Best,  John,  318,  602. 

 ,  Philip,  mayor  of  Norwich,  373. 

 ,  Thomas,  14. 

Besteney,  Bestney,  Thomas,  251,  313,  389, 

395,  462,  492. 

 ,  William,  41,  183,  286. 

Beston,  Beeston,  John,  14. 

Bestwood,  Beskewode,  co.  Nottingham,  310, 

442,  446,  482,  488. 
Besyube,  Johu,  244. 
Betchworth,  West,  co.  Surrey,  596. 
Bethersdcn,  co.  Kent.,  283,  302,  546. 
Bethom,  Edward,  456,  635. 

 ,  Richard,  456. 

 ,  Roger,  456. 

  William,  29. 

Beton,  William,  381. 

Betriche,  Edward,  parson  of  Drayton  Parslow, 

263,  344. 

 ,  William,  8. 

Bette,  Thomas,  515. 

Bettescombe,  John,  490. 

Bettis,  Thomas,  487. 

Betty,  Johu,  250. 

Bettys,  Edmund,  320. 

Beucher,  John,  573. 

Beverich,  William,  142. 

Beverley,  co.  Hereford,  521. 

 ,  CO.  York,  15,  114,  143,268,  286,  577, 

583. 

 ,  collegiate  church  of  St.  John,  309. 

 ,  ,  John  Mansell,  provost  of,  123. 

Beverley,  Christopher,  303. 
Bevour.    See  Belvoir. 
Bevyn,  John,  38. 

 ,  Richard,  55. 

Bevyngden,  co.  Sussex,  192. 
Bevyshyll,  co.  Devon,  36. 
Bewdley,  Beaudeley  [co.  Worcester],  361, 
478. 

 burgesses  of,  361. 

Bewle,  Bewelewe,  Beaule,  Richard,  29,  610. 

 ,  William,  610. 

Beworthy,  co.  Devon,  24,  45. 

Bewsborough,  Bewesbarowe,  Bewysbergh,  co. 

Kent,  hundred  of,  299,  300. 
Bexley,  Bekele,  co.  Sussex,  205. 

  Bexhill,  CO.  Kent,  225,  325. 

Bexwell,  Bekeswell,  co.  Norfolk,  582. 
Beynton,  John,  11.3. 

 ,  Katharine  his  wife,  113. 

 ,  Richard,  539. 

  And  see  Baynton. 

Beywyke,  Thomas,  356. 

Bicker,  Bycar,  co.  Lincoln,  26,  517. 

Bickcrstoue,  Bokerstou,  co.  Norfolk,  562. 


654 


GENERAL  INDEX. 


Bickerton,  Bykerton,  co.  York,  593. 
Biekton,  Buketon,  co.  Devon,  74. 
Biddenham,  Bedenham,  co.  Bedford.,  503. 
Bideford,  Bydeford,  co.  DeTon,  36. 

 ,  port  of,  393. 

Bidfield,  Budefeld,  co.  Gloucester,  828. 
Bierton,  Beerton,  co.  Buckingham,  480. 
Bierton,  Nicholas,  mayor  of  Sandwich,  853. 
Bigge,  Bygge,  John,  305,  352,  485. 

 Richard,  494. 

 William,  163,  259. 

Biggleswade,  Bykylyswade,  co.  Bedford,  75, 

485,  486. 
Biker,  Patrick,  64. 
Bikley,  Roger,  401. 
Bilbao,  Bilbowe,  in  Spain,  319. 

 ,  ship  called  le  Michell  of,  288. 

  . . .,  ship  called  le  Seint  John  Baptiste  of, 

249. 

Bilde,  Henry,  443. 
Bildeston,  Bylston,  co.  Suffolk,  382. 
Bildawas.    See  Buildwas. 
Bilebawe.    See  Bilbao. 

Bilhagh,  Billowe,  co.  Nottingham,  309,  310, 

451,  488. 
Billesden,  William,  93. 

Billesdon,  Robert,  sheriff  of  London,  437, 
439,  408. 

 ,  ,  sheriff  of  Middlesex,  450. 

Billing,  Byllyng,  Great,  co.  Northampton,  3, 
581. 

Billingesborowe,  John,  parson  of  Culmington 

in  le  Corvedale,  543,  557. 
Billonard,  William,  591. 
Billop,  Robert,  215. 
Billowe.    See  Bilhagh. 

Billyng,  Thomas,  55,  70,  102,  103,  127,  128, 
170,  171,  221,  245-249,  251,  353,  376, 
403,  405,  408,  490,  525,  576,  607-609, 
617,  622,  623,  631,  634. 

 ,   ,  chief  justice  of  the  King's 

Bench,  120,  130,  142,  159,  178,  188, 
190,  226,  229,  234,  25.3,  258,  282,  293, 
331,  357,  367,  375,  383,  395,  397,  401, 
410,  411,  420,  431,  444,  448,  452,  476, 
517,  530,  531,  549,  560,  688,  599,  600, 
602-604. 

 ,   ,  the  younger,  escheator  in 

the  county  of  Buckingham,  152. 

Billyngdon,  Byllyugdon,  William,  146. 

Billy ngey,  Simon,  parson  of  Chilton,  96,  151. 

 ,  chaplain  of  Farleigh  Hunger- 
ford,  151. 

Binbrook,  Bynbroke,  co.  Lincoln,  553. 

Bingham,  Byngham,  co.  Nottingham,  462. 

Binhamy,  Benam,  Bynamy,  co.  Cornwall,  58, 
279. 

Binswood,  Beneswortb,  co.  Southampton,  66. 
Birch,  Brich,  Little,  co.  Essex,  180. 
Bivchanger,  co.  Essex,  577. 
Birche,  Thomas,  46. 


Bircher,  Byrcher,  Thomas,  the  elder,  602. 

 ,   ,  the  younger,  502. 

Birchingtoii,  co.  Kent,  108,  445. 
Bircholt,  Byrcheholt,  co.  Kent,  hundred  of, 
301. 

Birde,  Richard,  84. 

  And  see  Byrd. 

Birgenorth.    See  Bridgnorth. 
Birger,  Edward,  3. 
Birkin,  Byrkyri,  co.  York,  145,  361. 
Birkland,  Brikland,  co.  Nottingham,  309,  310, 
451,  488. 

Birling,  Berlyng,  Byrlyng,  co.  Sussex,  18. 
 ,  CO.  Kent,  10. 

Birmingham,  Bermyngeham,  Byrmyngeham, 
CO.  Warwick,  7,  10,  49,  331,  606. 

Birthorpe,  co.  Lincoln,  26,  517. 

Birts  Morton,  Morton  Brutes,  co.  Worcester, 
102. 

Biscay,  in  Spain,  602. 

Bishop  Auckland,  co.  Durham,  collegiate 
church  of,  Bartholomew  Radclyf, 
dean  of,  382. 

Bishopdale,  Bisshoppesdale,  co.  York,  483, 
486,  487. 

Bishop's  Lynn,  co.  Norfolk,  73,  79,  149,  169, 
'  170,  201,  217,  221,  225,  323,  381,  435, 
600,  519,  576,  677. 

 ,  port  of,  206,  230,  268,  375,  462. 

Bishop's  Tauton.    See  Tawton. 
Bishopstone,  Bysshoppyston,  co.  Wilts,  141. 

 ,  hundred  of,  466. 

Bisipate,  George,  291. 

Bisley,  Bysseley,  co.  Gloucester,  453. 

 ,  Bisseley,  co.  Surrey,  19. 

Bisshop,  Richard,  parson  of  Gisleham,  586. 

 Robert,  436. 

  And  see  Bysshop. 

Bisshoppes  Welde,  co.  Southampton,  210. 
Bissipate,  George,  270,  291. 
Bithestrond,  co.  Cornwall,  58. 
Bitterley,  co.  Salop,  134. 
Bitteswell,  Bytteswell,  co.  Leicester,  81. 
Bixley,  Byskley,  co.  Norfolk,  257. 
Bizien,  John,  3  98. 

Blackborough  Bolhay,  Blakebourneboty,  co. 

Devon,  32,  137. 
Blackbourne,  BUikborne,  co.  Kent,  hundred 

of,  300. 

Blaekdown,  Blakedon,  co.  Dorset,  602. 
Blackheath,  Blakheth,  co.  Kent,  hundred  of, 
303. 

Blackmere,  Blakemere,  co.  Salop,  402,  410, 
411,  439,  440,  442. 

Blackmore,  co.  Essex,  397,  560, 

Blackoe,  Blakaugh,  co.  Salop,  402. 

Blacktoft,  CO.  York,  10. 

Bladelyn,  Peter,  282. 

Bladen,  co.  Oxford,  17,  213,  543,  567,  573. 
Blagdon,  co.  Somerset,  137. 


GENERAL  INDEX. 


656 


Blaithwaite,  Blaketwhayte,  co.  Cumberland, 
13. 

Blakaugh.    See  Blackoe. 

Blakboumc,  Blakbuine,  John,  6,  80,  216. 

 Joan,  215. 

 Thomas,  38  i. 

Blake,  John,  79,  197,  246,  319,  406. 

 ,  Matthew,  494. 

 ,  Robert,  427,  569. 

 ,  Simon,  221,  289. 

 ,  Thomas,  52,  214. 

 ,  William,  75. 

Blakebourneboty.   See  Blackborough  Bolhay. 

Blakedon,  co.  Somerset,  32. 

BlakehoUey,  Blakeley,  co.  Essex,  238. 

Blakemaii,  Robert,  16. 

Blakemere.    See  Hlackmere. 

Blakemore,  William,  60. 

Blakenell,  John,  256. 

Blakeney,  co.  Norfolk,  5,  451. 

Blakeney,  John,  91. 

 ,  Ralph,  512,  540. 

Blakenham,  co.  Sufl'olk,  63,461. 
Blakeshale.    See  Blaxhall. 
Blakesley,  co.  Northampton,  827. 
Blaket,  Dame  Isabel,  112. 

 ,  William,  74. 

Blaketwhayte.    See  Blaithwaite. 

Blakeweyn,  Master  John,  dean  of  St.  Mary's, 

Shrewsbm'y,  276,  357. 

 ,  the  king's  sub-almoner,  357. 

Blakewode  [co.  Cornwall],  119. 

Blaklawe,  Thomas,  chaplain   of  Thornton, 

390. 

Blakmore,  co.  Dorset,  forest  of,  173. 
Blakwall,  Robert,  parson  of  Gislehara,  807, 
467. 

 ,  ,  parson  of  Weston,  164. 

Blanchard,  Blauuchard,  Thomas,  372,  379, 
462,  499,  542. 

Blanchland,  Blauncheland,  co.  Northumber- 
land, 506,  513. 

Blancombe,  John,  75. 

Blande,  Oliver,  parson  of  Richmond,  239. 

 ,  parson  of  Gosforth,  239. 

 Thomas,  433. 

Blandtord  Forum,  co.  Dorstt,  109. 

Blanerhasset,  Al.an,  277. 

 ,  ,Tohn,  229. 

Blankynson,  Thomas,  10. 

Blanquefort,  lord  of.    See  Dureford. 

Blasell,  John,  5"  I. 

 Thomas,  571. 

Blauuchard.    See  Blanchard. 

Blauncheland.    See  Blanchland. 

Blawet.    See  Plouay. 

Blaxhall,  Blakeshale,  co.  Suffolk,  110. 

Bleangate,  Bleugate,  co.  Kent,  hundred  of, 
240,  302. 

BUchelee.    See  Bletchley. 


Bledlow,  CO.  Buckingham,  79. 

Bledlowe,  Thomas,  120,  12),  322,  509,  519. 

Blencogo,  co.  Cumberland,  13,  476. 

Blengate.    See  Bleangate. 

Blesdale,  William,  206,  222. 

Bletchingley,  Blechynglye,  co.  Surrey,  502. 

Bletchley,  Blechclee,  co.  Buckingham,  399. 

Blewet,  John,  456. 

Blieut,  John,  201. 

Bliton.    See  BIyton. 

Blodewell,  Geoffrey,  218. 

Blofeld,  John,  28,  53. 

Blofield,  CO  Norfolk,  434. 

 ,  hundred  of,  82,  159. 

Blome,  John,  526. 

 ,  Richard,  parson  of  Scrayingham,  89. 

 ,  parson  of  Sigglestborne,  89. 

Blontisden.    Sec  Blunsdon. 
Blount,  Agnes,  585,  599. 

 ,  Edmund,  54,  124,  585,  599,  601. 

 ,  Edward,  566. 

 ,   ,  lord  Mount  joy,  489. 

 Hugh,  68. 

 ,  Humphrey,  219,  257,  284,  407,  408, 

429,  590,  627. 

 ,  James,  299,  428,  535,  611. 

 ,   ,   lieutenant  of    Hammes  by 

Calais,  591. 

 ,  John,  211,  299,  41.J. 

 ,   ,  lord  Mouutjoy,  566-568,  591, 

611,  629. 

 ,  Margaret,  601. 

 ,  Robert,  61,  111. 

 ,  Simon,  124,  585,  599,  COl. 

 ,  Thomas,  61,  111,  477,  621. 

 ,  ,  treasurer  of  Calais,  270. 

 ,  Isabel  his  wifs,  477. 

  Walter,  350,  386. 

 ,  ,  lord  Mountjoy,  24,  27,  34,  55, 

61,  69,  70,  72,  102,  103,  105,  111,  117, 
156,  171,  190,  195,  199,  207,  219,  221, 
284,  287,  298,  299,  308,  310,  317,  339, 
351,  3.^.3,  379,  388,  403,  414,  489,  510, 
511,  566,  568,  611,  612,  614,  617,  618, 
630,  632,  633. 

 ,  treasurer  of  England,  53,  85. 

 ,  Anne,  duchess  of  Buckingham, 

his  wife,  69,  72,  308,  510. 

  William,  175,  265,  298,489,  566,  611. 

Blowe,  Nicholas,  208. 

Blower,  Thomas,  114. 

Bloxham,  co.  Oxford,  9. 

Blundell,  James,  297. 

Blundeville,  Thomas  de,  bishop  of  Norwich 

[1226-1236],  460. 
Blunsdon,  Blontisdon  [co.  Wilts],  197. 
Blynslaugh,  John,  203. 
Blytou,  Bliton,  co.  Lincoln,  183. 
Bocarn,  Little,  co.  Cornwall,  51. 
Bocche,  William,  431. 
Boohaston.    See  Botch«ston. 


656 


GENERAL  INDEX. 


Bocher,  Alice,  286. 

 ,.,  John,  225. 

 ,  William,  374. 

 ,  ,  parson  of  Padwoi'th,  230. 

Bocherdby.    See  Botcherby. 
Boclond,  Eleanor,  100. 

 ,  Henry,  100. 

 Alice  Lis  wife,  100. 

 ,  Reginald,  100. 

 ,  Eichard,  100. 

Boconnoc,  Bokenok,  Bokynnowe,  co.  Corn- 
wall, 76,  341,  579. 
Bode,  John,  436. 

Bodelwyddan,  Aluetham  [co.  Flint],  prebend 

of,  585. 
Boden,  Thomas,  276. 
Bodennek.    See  Bodinnoc. 
Bodesden,  John,  430. 

Bodinnock,  Bodennek,  Podennek,  co.  Corn- 
wall, 145,  492. 

 ,  port  of,  492. 

Bodmin,  co.  Cornwall,  354,  469,  518. 

 priory  of,  469. 

Bodrugan,  co.  Cornwall,  362,  491,  576. 

Bodrugan,  Henry,  53,  54,  57,  101,  104,  171, 
197,  219,  220,  351,  354,  362,  377,  378, 
399,  403,  404,  418,  491,  552,  576,  610. 

Bodulgate,  co.  Cornwall,  389. 

Bodulgate,  Stephen,  389,  390. 

 ,  Thomas,  390,  444. 

 ,  Elizabeth  his  wife,  444. 

Body,  Andrew,  182. 

Bodyll,  John,  313. 

Bodyn,  Thomas,  80,  305,  362,  485. 

Bodyngton.    See  Godington. 

Bohun,  Humphrey,  118. 

 ,  John,  23,  118. 

 ,  Anne  his  Tfife,  23. 

Boiton.    See  Boy  ton. 

Bokelly,  co.  Cornwall,  280. 

Bokelond.    See  Buckland. 

Bokelond,  William,  prior  of  Deerhurst,  66. 

Bokenham,  John,  567. 

 ,  ,  Margaret  his  wife,  567. 

 ,  Thomas,  197. 

Bokenok.    See  Boconnoc. 

Bokerston.    See  Bickerstone. 

Boket,  Bokett,  John,  81,  571. 

 ,  Thomas,  130. 

 ,  William,  84,  143,  498. 

Bokkyng,  Edmund,  257. 

 ,  Eobert,  127,  352. 

Bokonnok.    See  Boconnoc. 

Bokton.    See  Boughton. 

Bokynnowe.    See  Boconnoc. 

Bolan,  William,  285. 

Bold,  Henry,  54,  113. 

 William,  524. 

Boldron,  Bolrou,  co.  York,  483,  487. 


Bole,  CO.  ]?ottingham,  477. 
Bole,  John,  39. 

 ,   ,  archbishop  of  Armagh  [1457- 

1470],  primate  of  Ireland,  193,  259. 

 ,  Nicholas,  586. 

 ,  Richard,  32,  33. 

 ,  Thomas,  200. 

 ,  Alice  his  wife,  200. 

Bole  Aller  [in  CoUumpton],  co.  Devon,  345. 
Boley,  John,  407. 
Boleyn,  Alan,  405. 

 ,  Geofirey,  579. 

 ,  Thomas,  5. 

 ,   ,  prebendary  of  St.  Stephen's, 

Westminster,  306. 
Bolingbroke,  Bullyngbroke,  co.  Lincoln,  320, 

506. 

Boiler,  John,  220. 

Bolles,  John,  285,  352,  354,  355,  619. 
Boiling.    See  Bowling. 
Bollyng,  Robert,  31,  46,  50,  479. 
Bolney,  co.  Sussex,  344. 

Bolney,  Bartholomew,  130,  196,  199,  247,  249, 
288,  351,  406,  463,  633. 

Bolsover,  Boll«souere,  co.  Derby,  441,482, 488. 

Bolsterstone,  co.  York,  439,  460. 

Boltby,  CO.  York,  115,  461. 

Bolte,  John,  300. 

Bolton,  CO.  Lancaster,  382,  498. 

 in  Fuzness,  co.  Lancaster,  14. 

  Percy,  co.  York,  26,  517. 

 on  Derne,  co.  York,  9. 

Bolton,  Joan,  114. 

 ,  John,  382,  498. 

 Richard,  36,  167. 

 Roger,  382,  498. 

Bolyngdon.    See  Bullingdon. 

Bolyngiope.    See  BuUinghope. 

Bomlet,  John,  35. 

Bompstede.    See  Bumpstead. 

Bonallack,  Banathelek  by  Merthyn,  co.  Corn- 
wall, 149. 

Bonam,  Walter,  502. 

Bonamy,  Peter,  197. 

Bonby  in  Scotland,  106. 

 ,  Boundeby,  co.  Lincoln,  242,  457,520, 

530. 

Bond,  Thomas,  598. 
Bonda,  Thomas,  434. 

Bondage  in  Couderton,  co.  Cumberland,  438. 

Bonde,  William,  428. 

Bondeby.    See  Bonby. 

Bone,  Thomas,  43. 

Boneautre,  Richard,  4. 

Bonegay.    See  Bungay. 

Boner,  Bonyr,  William,  393. 

Bonethan,  Richard,  363. 

Bonettys  (in  Bulmcr),  co.  Essex,  515. 

Bonevilc.    See  L'o.nvile. 


GENERAL  INDEX. 


657 


Bonifa  nt.    See  Bonyf ant. 

Bonvile,  Bonevyle,  Cecily,  311,  456,  457,514. 

 ,  John,  304,  407,  612. 

 ,  William,  148,  193,  194,  311. 

 ,   ,  lord  Bonvile,  456,  476,  614. 

 ,   ,  lord  Harrington,  456,  476,  514. 

 ,  Katharine  his  •wife,  456. 

Bonyfant,  Bonifant,  William,  163,  192. 
Bonyfaunt,  Edmund,  46. 

 ,   ,  rector  of  Little  Birch,  180. 

 ,  prehendary  of  St.  Stephen's, 

Westminster,  180. 
  Thomas,  prebendary  of  St.  Paul's, 

London,  111. 
 ,  ,  prebendary  of  St.  Stephen's, 

Westminster,  111,  180. 

 ,  ...  .  ,  rector  of  Little  Birch,  180. 

Bonyndon,  Ricliard,  73. 
Bookette,  William,  80. 
Boolde,  Eobert,  467. 
Boole,  Richard,  505. 
Booll,  William,  142. 

  And  see  Bole. 

Boon,  Angelus,  of  la  Monte,  154. 

 ,  John,  abbot  of  Bury  St.  Edmunds, 

73,  183,  186. 

 ,  Thomas,  275. 

Boost,  Robert,  280,  341. 

Booths,  Bothis  [co.  Chester],  449. 

Bordeaux,  37,  240,  450,  559,  586,  595. 

Borden,  Robert,  502. 

Bordyt.    See  Burdet. 

Borecote,  co.  Cemwall,  58. 

Boreman,  William,  581. 

 ,  ,  Joan  his  wife,  581. 

Borgh,  Edith,  abbess  of  Wilton,  231,  296. 

 ,   ,  John  at,  306. 

Borham,  John,  381. 

Borlas,  John,  280. 

Borlasfrank,  co.  Cornwall,  280. 

Borley,  co.  Essex,  92,  398,  410. 

Borman,  Henry,  master  of  the  almshouse  of 

SS.  John  Baptist  and  John  Evangelist, 

Sherborne,  123. 
Borne,  Stephen,  301. 

 ,  Thomas,  386. 

 ,  William,  118. 

Bornell,  William,  427. 
Boroe,  Anthony,  154. 
Borougli.    See  Burgh. 
Boroughbridge,  Burghbrigge,  co.  York,  6. 
Borowgh,  CO.  Norfolk,  191. 
Borugh,  Thomas,  428. 
Bosard,  Philip,  577. 
Bosbury,  co.  Hereford,  102. 
Boscombc,  CO.  Wilts,  177. 
Bose worth,  John,  1. 
Bossu  by  Trcgean,  co.  Coriiwiill,  11(». 
Bostc,  Hugh,  216. 
y  96186. 


Boston,  Botulfeston,  co.  Lincoln,  12,  316, 
435,  457,  458,  500,  508,  529,  530,  579, 
596. 

 ,  port  of,  15,  166,  167,  212,  213,  216, 

229,  230,  259,  263,  268,  269,  340,  393, 
513,  521,  527. 

Boston,  John,  166,  379,  419,  547. 

 Roger,  346. 

Botcherby,  Bocherdby,  co.  Cumberland,  13. 

Botcheston,  Bochaston,  co.  Leicester,  27,  517. 

Bote,  Robert,  164. 

Botekysham.    .See  Bottishaui. 

Boteler.  Botelier,  Botiller,  liutteler,  Alexan- 
der, 2. 

 ,  Edward,  520. 

 ,  ,  Anne  his  wife,  520. 

 Henry,  96,  218,  289,  348,  403,  405, 

490,  606,  612,  615,  629,  634,  636. 

 ,  Joan,  157,  514. 

 John,  39,  49,  157,  199,  201,  219, 

331,  349,  407,  426,  445,  509,  514,  579. 
589,  614,  615. 

 ,  escheator  in  Kent  and  Middle- 
sex, 48. 

 ,   ,  of  Badmynton,  608. 

   ,  of  Barmyngton,  220. 

 ,  Morgan,  169,  252,  288. 

 ,  Ralph,  514. 

 Elizabeth  his  wife,  514,  515. 

 ,  lord  of  Sudeley,  7,  50,  133, 

247-249,  40.3,  512.  614,  625. 

 ,  chief  butler,  262. 

 Alesia  his  wife,  133. 

 ,  Richard,  256,  289,  328. 

 ,   ,  Matilda  his  wife,  328. 

 Thomas,  29,  133,  332,  498. 

 ,   Anne  his  wife,  29. 

 ,  Eleanor  his  wife,  133. 

Botellerie,  Alexander  de  la,  92. 
Boteswayn,  .Tames,  524. 
Bothe,  George,  304. 
 ,  John,  350,  611. 

 bishop  of  Exeter  [1465-1478], 

148,  339,  468,  469,  610,  611,  621,  629, 
631. 

 ,  Laurence,  bishop  of  Durham  [1457- 

1476],  and  chancellor,  12-1,  132,  157, 
190,  273,  276,  283,  292,  366,  375,  392, 
411,  437,  439,  468,  469,  511,  588,  604, 
632,  637.  638. 

 ,  ,  archbishop   of  York  [1476- 

1480],  604,  632,  637,  638. 

 ,  Richard,  86,  210,  246,  248,  577,  031. 

...   Robert,  254,  285,  400,  401,  428,  486, 

607. 

 ,  ,  Matilda  his  wife,  400. 

 ,  parson  of  St.  Matthew,  Ipswich, 

418,  597. 

 Thomas,  parson  of  Wolstanton,  416. 

 William,  210. 

 ,  William,  archbishop  of  York  [1452- 

1464],  577,  600. 

T  'L 


658 


GENERAL  INDEX. 


Bothebroke,  John,  256. 
Bothis.    See  Booths. 

Botill,  Robert,  prior  of  the  hospital  of  St.  John 
of  Jerusalem  in  England,  189,  232. 

Botiller,  Margaret,  prioress  of  Higbam,  564. 

  And  see  Boteler. 

Boton,  John,  257. 

Botreaux,  William,  lord,  306,  311. 

 ..,  Elizabeth  his  wife,  306,  311. 

Bottesford,  Botellesford,  co.  Leicester,  27,  245, 
517. 

Bottesforde,  John,  287. 

Bottisham,  Botekysham,  co.  Cambridge,  74, 
507. 

Botulfeston.    See  Boston. 
Botull,  John,  413,  459. 
Botyrfeld,  WiUiam,  75. 
Boucher,  Robert,  223. 
Boudeler,  John,  589. 

 ,   ,  Julian  his  wife,  589. 

Boudon.    See  Bowden. 
Boughlagh,  co.  Sussex,  143. 
Boughton,  CO.  Kent,  hundred  of,  301. 

 ,  CO.  Northampton,  392. 

  Monchelsea,  Bokton  Monchynce,  co. 

Kent,  433. 
Boughton,  Richard,  403. 
 ,   escheator   of  Warwick  and 

Leicester,  537. 

 ,  Robert,  45. 

Bouk,  John,  577. 
Boulogne,  honour  of,  61,  87. 
Boundeby.    See  Bonby. 
Bounten,  Richard,  569. 

Bourbonio,  Sir  John  de,  abbot  of  Cluny,  415. 

Bourchier,  Burghchier,  ,  195. 

 ,  Fulk,  181,  195,  209. 

 ,   ,  of  FitzWareyn,  217,  219,  220, 

351,  376,  443,  464,  612. 

 ,  Henry,  viscount  Bourchier,  144. 

 ,   ,  earl  of   Essex,  25,  34,  38, 

92,  102,  103,  107,  117,  127,  132,  170, 
190,  195,  196,  199,  217,  221,  248,  249, 
287,  288,  310,  317,  321,  351-353,  373, 
406,  451,  480,  494,  526,  530,  539,  549, 
582,  613,  618,  622,  630,  632. 

 ,         ,  steward  of  the  household,  170. 

 ,   ,  treasurer   of  the  Exchequer, 

258,  466,  528,  531,  532,  541. 

 ,  ,  Isabel  his  wife,  the  king's  aunt, 

38,  162,  451,  480. 
 .Humphrey,  196,  311,593,  621,  622, 

632. 

 ,   ,lord  of  Cromwell,  16,  28,  47, 

55,  70,  85,  170,  171,  190,  195,  199, 
221,  252,  611,  619-622,  624,  632,  633. 

 ,  John,  24,  51,  245-248,  403,  413,  423, 

593,  608,  618,  634. 

 ,   ,  Elizabeth  his  wife,  413,  423. 

.,  ,  ,  of  Berners,  70,  102,  103,  127, 

171,  196,  217,  246,  248,  349,  351,  353, 
593,  608,  631. 


Bourchier,  John,  constable  of  Windsor  Castle, 
331. 

 ,   ,  Marjory  his  wife,  593. 

 ,  John,  parson  of  Biggleswade,  485. 

 ,  Richard,  of  Berners,  632. 

 ,  Thomas,  24,  45,  127,  182,  195,  199, 

217,  288,  300-302,  352,  407,  425,  428, 

462,  593,  618,  632. 
 ,   ,  constable  of  Windsor  Castle, 

331. 

 ,   ,  Isabel  his  wife,  425. 

 ,   ,  bishop   of  Ely  [1444-1454], 

293. 

...   ,   ,  archbishop     of  Canterbury 

[1454-1486],  16,  34,  36,  42,  45,  89, 
117,  125,  132,  177,  185,  190,  209,  211, 
256,  260,  261,  266,  272,  274,  275,  283, 
293,  295,  298,  309,  310,  313,  332,  339, 
358,  366,  369,  373-376,  388,  395,  414, 
419,  468,  482,  517,  530,  538,  539,  549, 
568,  582,  593,  597,  617,  621,  631,  633. 

 ,  William,  25,  127,  217,  317,  351,  613. 

 ,  Anne  his  wife,  25. 

 ,   ,  of  Bourchier,  287. 

 ,   ,  lord  FitzWareyn,  36,  85,  101, 

168,  181,  195,  196,  209,  284,  332,  612, 
627. 

 lord  of.    See  Robessard. 

Boureman,  Thomas,  56. 
Bourgh,  William,  347. 
Bourhenton.    See  Bower  Heaton. 
Bourn,  Burn,  co.  Cambridge,  402. 
Bourne,  Born,  co.  Lincoln,  291,  560. 

 ,  CO.  Southampton,  327. 

Bourne,  John,  76,  126. 

Bourton,  Beerton,  co.  Buckingham,  38. 

 ,  Great,  co.  Oxford,  320. 

Bourton,  William,  431. 

 ,   ,  Isabel  his  wife,  431. 

Bouryng,  Thomas,  558,  567. 
Bovy  Tracy,  co.  Devon,  32,  137. 
Bowbanke,  William,  17,  215. 
Bowde,  John,  489. 
Bowden,  Boudon,  co.  Leicester,  98. 

 ,  Great,  358,  368. 

Bowdon,  John,  292. 
Bowe,  John,  78. 
Boweblast,  Richard,  141. 
Bowedon,  John,  200. 
Bowelast,  Thomas,  141. 
Bowelond,  John,  502. 

Bowemau,  Peter,  clerk  of  the  king's  ships, 
105. 

 ,  Thomas,  318. 

 ,  William,  381. 

Bower,  Alan,  128. 

 ,  John,  214,  215,  277. 

 ,  Thomas,  parson    of  Scrayingham, 

504. 

  ..,  parson  of  Chelmsford,  504. 

 ,  William,  215. 


GENERAL  INDEX. 


659 


Bower  Heaton,   Bourhentou,   co.  Somerset, 

226,  .503. 
Bowes,  CO.  York,  483,  486. 
Bowes,  Thomas,  462,  492,  .586. 

 ,   ,  clerk  of  tlie  ordnance,  547. 

Bowet,  Nicholas,  352,  620,  621. 
Bowey,  Thomas,  198. 

Bowhill,  Buhull  [in  Collumptou],  co.  Devon, 
34.S. 

Bowier,  Robert,  553. 

Bowland,  William,  526. 

Bowlee,  John,  800. 

Bowling,  Boiling;,  co.  York,  4'i,  SO. 

Bowne,  Bartholomew,  439. 

Bowode,  Robert,  581. 

Bowswell,  George,  216. 

 ,  John,  215. 

Bowton.    See  Boyton. 
Bowton,  John,  168. 
Bowyer,  Hugh,  80. 

 ,  John,  277. 

 ,  Patrick,  169. 

 ,  William,  168. 

Boxe.    See  Baas. 
Boxe,  Richard  de,  123. 
Boxgrove,  co.  Sussex,  41. 
Boxley,  co.  Kent,  abbot  and   convent  of, 
376, 

Boxted,  CO.  Suffolk,  89,  291,  297,  556. 
Boyd,  Robert,  lord  of,  4G6,  536. 
Boys,  Boyse,  Thomas,  285,  620. 
Boyton,  Bowton,  co.  Cornwall,  58. 

 ,  CO.  Suffolk,  110. 

Boyvile,  Boyvyle,  John,  619,  627. 

 ,   the  elder,  113. 

 ,   ,  the  younger,  113. 

  William,  271,  290. 

Brabant,  12,  240. 
Brabourne,  co.  Kent,  180. 
Brace,  William,  6 1 . 
Bracebrigge,  Richard,  40.>,  564. 
Bracabrygge,  Brasabrygge,  William,  316. 
Brackenbm'y,  Ralph,  215. 
Bracy  Maner,  co.  Buckingham,  309. 
Bracy,  John,  abbot  of  Muchelney,  241,268, 
266. 

Bradbury,  Robert,  86. 
Bradderige.    See  Bradrige. 
Braddou,  William,  205. 
Bradeford.    See  Bradford. 
Bradfeld,  lienry,  293. 

Bradfield,  Menkes  Bradfeld,  co.  Suffolk,  36. 

  Combust,  Brentbradfeld,  36. 

Bradford  by  Yeovil,  co.  Dorset,  13. 

 ,  CO.  York,  46,  386. 

Bradford,  Bradeford,  Bredford,  Isabel,  81. 

 ,  John,  148,  638. 

  William,  355,  378,  408,  638. 

Bradley,  co.  Devon,  37. 


Bradley,  co.  Durham,  143. 

 ,  CO.  Lincoln,  508. 

 ,  CO.  Warwick,  516. 

 Bradlegh,  Little,  co.  Suffolk,  431. 

Bradley,  William,  39. 
Bradman,  James,  100. 
Bradmer,  Benedict,  79. 
 ,  Robert,  553. 

Bradninch,  Bradenynche,  co.  Devon,  173. 
Bradridge,  Bradderige,  co.  Cornwall,  58. 
Bradshawe,  John,  326,  408. 

,   ,  Robert,  257. 

Bradstede  by  Tonbridge,  co.  Kent,  300. 
Bradwell,  Brutewell,  co,  Buckingham,  390. 

 ,  CO.  Oxford,  ,502. 

Bradwey,  John,  225,  326. 

Bradweye,  William,  446. 

Braghyng.    See  Braughing. 

IJraham,  co.  York,  601. 

Brailes,  Brayles,  co.  Warwick,  49,331,  604. 

Braintree,  Brankotre,  co.  Essex,  74,  318. 

Braithwaite,  co.  York,  483,  486,  487. 

Braithwell,  Brathewell,  co.  York,  179. 

Braitthwayte,  John,  216. 

Brakanthwayt  [co.  York],  (>0l. 

Brake,  Richard,  251. 

Brakeholeshill,  co.  Nottingham,  477. 

Brakstede.    See  Braxted. 

Brakynburgh,  Richard,  parson  of  Sutton  in 

Ardern,  209. 
 ,   ,  master  of  the  hospital  of  St. 

Mary,  Strood,  209. 
Brambarowe,  co.  Sussex,  42. 
Bramble,  William,  the  younger,  420. 

   ,  the  elder,  420. 

 Helen  his  wife,  420. 

Bramburgh,  Hugh,  375. 
Brambyll,  William,  515. 

Brarafield,  Brantfeld,  co.  Hertford,  132.375, 
388. 

Bramley,  Bremley,  co.  Southampton,  149. 
Bramley,  Thomas,  224. 
Brampton,  co.  Derby,  400. 

 ,  Great,  co.  Northampton,  60. 

  And  sec  Bamplon. 

Brampton,  Edward,  340,  357,  401,  409. 

 ,  John,  109,  115,  342,  374,487. 

 ,  Robert,  4b7. 

 ,  ,  parson  of  High  Ongar,  263. 

 ,  Thomas,  487. 

Bramshaw,  Bremulshawe,  co.  Wilts,  467. 
Branccpeth,   Braunccpath,    Braunspath,  co. 

Durham,  40.  304. 
Brandbradfeld.    See  Bradfield  Combust. 
Brandeley,  William,  502. 
Brandeston,  co.  Norfolk,  93,  387, 
Brandon,  co.  Wilts,  forest  of,  152. 

Brandon,  William,  85,  167,  352,  353,  364, 
406,  556,  560,  623,  631. 

T  T  2 


660 


GENERAL  INDEX. 


Branketre.    See  Braintree. 

Brauscombe,  Braunscomb,  co.  Devon,  61. 

Branston,  Braunston,  co.  Leicester,  336. 

 ,  Bronston,  co.  Suffolk,  95. 

Brantfeld.    See  Bramfield. 

Brantham,  co.  Suffolk,  590. 

Branthwaite,  Brauncethwayte  [co.  Cumber- 
land], 288. 

Branwell,  Edward,  4  34. 

Branyngham.    See  Baruingham. 

Brasebrygge.    See  Bracebrygge. 

Brasingburgb,  Richard,  218. 

Brasyer,  Stephen,  4. 

Brasyngton,  Thomas,  127. 

Brathen,  co.  Salop,  84,  354. 

Braton.    See  Bray  ton. 

Bratton,  co.  Devon,  60,  466. 

Braughing,  Braghyng,  co.  Hertford,  369. 

Braughyng,  Thomas,  escheator  in  Essex  and 
Hertford,  192. 

 ,   ,  the  elder,  182. 

 ,  ,  the  younger,  182. 

Brauncepath.    See  Brancepeth. 

Brauncethwayte.    See  Branthwaite. 

Braunfeld.    See  Brayfield. 

Braunspath.    See  Brancepeth. 

Braunston,  Braunceston,  co.  Northampton,  441. 

  And  see  Branston. 

Braxted,  Brakstede,  co.  Essex,  34. 

Bray,  co.  Berks,  203,  232,  234,  238. 

 ,  hundred  of,  232. 

 ,  High,  CO.  Devon,  466. 

Bray,  Reginald,  339. 

 ,  Richard,  580. 

 ,  Robert,  6. 

 ,  Thomas,  155. 

 ,  William,  146. 

Braybroke,  Robert,  268. 

Brayfield,  Braunfeld,  co.  Northampton,  327. 

Brayles.    See  Brailes. 

Brayn  (in  Church  Minshull),  co.  Chester, 
575. 

Brayne,  William,  616. 

Braynford.    See  Brentford. 

Braynton,  Breynton,  Thomas,  55,  288,  289, 

433,  450,  459,  463,  505,  616. 
Braytoft,  Richard,  286. 
Brayton,  Braton,  co.  York,  1,  307,  419. 
Brea,  Bree,  co.  Cornwall,  365. 
Brean,  Brene,  co.  Somerset,  457,  530. 
Brearly,  William,  213. 
Brecher,  William,  367. 
Brecknock,  co.  Brecon,  175. 
Bredell,  John,  parson  of  St.  Nicholas,  Calais, 

260. 

Bredford.    See  Bradford. 

Bree.    See  Brea. 

r>ree,  Joceus,  365. 

IJrei  doji,  CO,  Leicester,  113. 


Bregge.  See  Bridge. 
Brekenok,  David,  568. 

 ,  ,  Margaret  his  wife,  568. 

 ,  John,  246,  247,  472,  608. 

 ,  Robert,  286-288. 

 ,  Dan   William,  prior  of  Ste  Marie 

,    Charite,  390. 
Brekyn,  John,  prebendary  of  Bridgnorth, 
184. 

Bremercorabe,  Bremelcombe,  Henry,  86, 171. 
 ,   ,  chaplain  of  Newton   Popple - 

ford,  280. 
Bremley.    See  Bramley,  Bromley. 
Bremulshawe.   See  Bramshaw. 
Brenchley,  Brenchesle,  co.  Kent,  hundred  of, 

300. 

Brende,  Henry,  149. 
Brendesworthy.    See  Brynsworthy. 
Brent,  co.  Devon,  60. 
Brent,  Andrew,  31. 

 Hugh,  407. 

 ,  Robert,  249,  282,  391. 

 Roger,  288,  302,  389,  428,  445,  463, 

571,  573. 

 ,  William,  329,  348,  389,    428,  433, 

489,  571. 

Brentbradfeld.    See  Bradfield  Combust. 
Brentford,    Braynford,  co.  Middlesex,  178, 
324. 

 ,  Old,  324. 

 New.  324. 

 ,  East,  324. 

Brent  Marsh,  Brentmersshe,   co.  Somerset, 
39. 

Brentwood,  co.  Essex,  500. 
Brereley.    See  BrierJy. 
Brereton,  co.  Chester,  450. 
Brereton,  Ralph,  429,  491. 

 ,  Ranulph,  sheriff  of  Stafford,  604. 

 ,  William,  450. 

Brese,  Thomas,  322. 
Bresyngham,  Roger,  387. 
Bretaigne,  Edward  the  Bastard  of,  185. 
Bretayn,  William,  269. 

 ,  John  de,  295,  366. 

Bretford,  William  de,  abbot  of  Combe,  478. 
Breton,  John,  265,  433. 
 ,  Thomas,  433. 

 ,  William,  abbot  of  Buckland,  171, 

172,  251,  403,  404,  408. 

 ,  Peter  le,  295. 

Brette,  William,  116,  122. 
Breuster.    See  Brewster. 
Breux,  Thomas,  552. 
Brewer,  Richard,  505. 

 ,  Thomas,  626. 

 ,  WiUiam,  494. 

Brewerne,  Thomas,  196. 

Brewes,  Thomas,  226,  249,  352,  353,  40,5 
lOii,  606,  631. 


GENERAL  INDEX. 


661 


Brewode,  John,  216,  518,  GOO,  G14. 
BrewKter,  Breuster,  John,  386,  451. 

  William,  386. 

Breynton.    See  Brajnton. 

Brian  Askam.    See  Askham  Bryan. 

Brice,  Bryce,  Hugh,  139,  315,  395,  540. 

 ,   ,  sheriff  of  London,  546,  547, 

586. 

 ,   ,  sheriff  of  Middlesex,  551,  556. 

 ,   ,  deputy  master  of   the  mint, 

149,  150. 

 ,  James  315. 

 ,  John,  78. 

 ,  Thomas,  -JSS. 

Brich.    See  Birch. 

Brickhill,  Brikhull,  Brykhyll,  co.  Bucking- 
ham, 72. 

 ,  Great,  384, 

 ,  Little,  72. 

Brid,  Bryd,  William,  471. 

Bridford,  Robert,  420. 

Bridge,  Bregge,  co.  Kent,  hundred  of,  302. 

Bridgewater,  co.  Somerset,  45,  144,  320,  343. 

 ,  mayor  of.    See  Kendale. 

 port  of,  167,  183,  216,  230,  262,  410, 

452,  603. 

Bridgnorth,  co.  Salop,  cliapel  or  collegiate 
church  of,  dean  of,  234,  260,  265,  338, 
342. 

  And  see  Martyn. 

 ,  ,  dean  and  chapter  of,  184,  210, 

332,  590. 

 ,  prebends  in,  332,  509,  590. 

 ,   ,  prebend  of  Alveley  in,  342. 

 ,   ,  prebend  of  Kardington  in,  184. 

 ,   ,  prebend  of  Morville  in,  338. 

 ,   ,  jirebend  of    Undcrdown  in, 

234,  260,  265. 

 ,   ,  prebend  of  Walton  in,  210,  590. 

 priory  or  hospital  of  St.  John  Baptist, 

304. 

Bridlington,  co.  York,  76,  354. 

 ,  prior  and  convent  of,  111. 

 ,  Peter  Hellard,  prior  of.  111. 

 ,  St.  John,  prior  of,  1 1 1. 

Bridport,  co.  Dor.set,  44,  225,  565. 
Brierly,  Brereley,  co.  York,  600. 
Brigge,  Brygge,  Giles,  614. 
 ,  John,  30,  321. 

 ,  Thomas,   30,  54,  60,  73,    140,  220, 

226,254,  317. 

 Thomas  a,  449 

Briggeman,  Simon,  321. 

Brigges  [in  Stanford  Uivers],  co.  Essex,  554. 
Brigges,  Bryggys,  .loan,  abbess  of  Romsey, 
337. 

 John,  79,  386. 

 ,  Thomas,  203,  450,  463,  505. 

Brigham,  co.  York,  291. 
Brigham,  William,  291. 
Bright,  William  486. 


Brighton,  Britghelmeston,  co.  Sussex,  539. 
Brightwell,  Bryghtwell,  Nicholas,  123,  152. 

 ,  Walter,  123,  152. 

 ,   ,  Alice  his  wife,  123. 

Brigstock,  go.  Northampton,  599. 

 ,  charter  dated  at,  370, 

Briker,  Thomas,  53. 
Brikland.    .See  Birkland. 
Brill,  Bryhylle,  co.  Buckingham,  60ti. 
Brimpsfield,  Br3  inmcsfeld,  co.  Gloucester,  10, 
439. 

  alien  priory  of,  62,  461. 

Brimpton,  Brympton,  co.  Berks,  142. 

Bringhurst,  Brynghurste,  co.  Leicester,  210. 

Briscowe,  Bristowe,  Bryscowe,  William,  167, 
174,  246,  247,  403,  481,  634. 

Bristol,  3,  6,  8,  21,  62,  65,  81,  83,  92,  101, 
109,  118,  129,  133,  142,  146,  168,  171- 
173,  175,  180,  203,  218,  224,  225,  234, 
241,  265,  274,  320,  324,  347,  354,  375, 
380,  412,  435,  4.50,  465,  471,  495,  496, 
512,  545,  580,  587,  603. 

 ,  mayor  of.    See  Canynges  ;  Jakes; 

Mede  ;  Spencer. 

 ,  outlawry  in,  77,  146,  149,  203,  320, 

380,  498,  SCO. 

 ,  subsidy  and  ulnage  of  cloth  in,  233, 

265,  296,  347,  478,  537. 

 ,  mint  at,  149,  150. 

 ,  charter  dated  at  370. 

 ,  St.  Augustine,  abbey  of,  399. 

 ,  abbot  and  convent  of  369,  397. 

 ,  ,  abbot  of,  118. 

 ,  ,  Walter  Nubery,  abbot  of  397. 

 ,   ,  William  llunte,  abbot  of,  399. 

 ,  St.  James,  prior  and  convent  of,  13. 

 ,   ,  William,  prior  of,  13. 

 port  of,  11,  17,  34  43,  59,  106,  107, 

130,  166,  167,  108,  176,  ISO,  206,  226, 
230,  262,  264,  268,  269,  273,  294,  315, 
338,  363,  422,  450,  451,  465,  471,  474, 
477,  489,  493,  495,  521,  545,  549,  554, 
566,  600. 

 ,  ship  called  Raphaell  of,  101,  168. 

Britford.  co.  Wilts,  467. 

Britghelmeston.    .See  Brighton. 

Brittany,  53-55,  58,  101,  156,197,  249,  339. 

354,  468,  493,  521,  536,  542,  552,  605. 
 ,  duke  of,  54,  101,  156,  197,  198,  351, 

468,  493,  511,  521,  605. 

 ,  Francis,  duke  of,  474. 

 ,  ship  called  le  Katerync  of,  295,  333. 

 ship  called  le  Saint  Gonstain  of  354. 

 ship  called  la  Marie  of,  366. 

Brittouell.    See  Brudenell. 

Brixham,  co.  Devon,  567. 

Broad,  Clist,  Brodclyst,  co.  Devon,  ?82. 

 ,  hundred  of,  282. 

Broadherabury,  co.  Devon,  81. 
Brobury,  Brokebury,  co.  Hereford,  4. 
Brocas,  Brokas,  William,  34,  56,  196,  220, 
246,  404. 


662 


GENERAL  INDEX. 


Brocbury,    See  Brobury. 

Brockdish,  Brokedich,  co.  Norfolk,  191. 

Brockdiish  Hall,  Brokedishalle,  in  Burston,  co. 

Norfolk,  448. 
Brodclj-st.    See  Broad  Clist. 
Erode,  John,  301,  407. 
Brodehauton.    See  Hinton. 
Brodeherst,  Thomas,  141. 
Broghton,    Edmund,    succentor    of  York 

cathedral,  268. 

 ,   ,  parson  of  Gosforth,  268. 

Brokas.    See  Brocas. 
Broke,  Edward,  281. 

 ,   ,  lord  of  Cobham,  47. 

 ,  Elizabeth,  abbess  of  Romsey,  339, 

344. 

 ,  John,  47,  65,  197,  281,  472,  573. 

 ,   ,  parson  of  St.  Leonard,  Foster 

Lane,  Loudon,  42. 

 ,  Nicholas,  289. 

 ,  Ralph,  76. 

 ,  Robert,  255. 

 ,  William,  72. 

  And  see  Brooke. 

Brokebury.    See  Broburj. 

Brokedich.    See  Brockdish. 

Brokeman,  Brokman,  John,  78,  108,  208,  218, 

446. 

 ,  William,  301. 

Broker,  Geoffrey,  437. 

 Reginald,  437. 

Brokeshaw,  Brokshawe,  John,  346. 

 ,   ,  William,  346. 

Broket,  Thomas,  199,  285,  407,  610. 
Brokhampton,  John,  ll.j. 

 ,  Walter,  152,  344,  345. 

Brokhill,  William,  302. 

Broklond.    Sec  Brookland. 

Brokman.    See  Brokeman. 

Brokwode,  Robert,  10. 

Bromer,  Roger,  203. 

Bromes,  co.  Buckingham,  471. 

Bromeswell,  co.  Suffolk,  110. 

Bromflete,  Brounflete,   Henry  de,   lord  of 

Vesci,  170,  327. 
Bromley,  Bremley,  Bronleght,  co.  Kent,  21, 

105,  322,  576. 

  and  Beckenham,  hundred  of,  301. 

 ,  CO.  Middlesex.  28. 

 ,  Little,  CO.  Essex,  569. 

  And  see  Brumley. 

Bromley,  Bromeley,  John,  173,  270,  290. 

 ,  abbot  of  Bermondsey,  387,  390. 

Brommeley,  Richard,  10. 
Brommore,  co.  Southampton,  24,  25. 
Brompton,  Brumpton  by  Alverton,  co.  York, 

119,  575. 

 ,  Brumpton  on  Swale,  119. 

 ,  hospital  of  St.  Giles,  90. 

Brompton,  William,  316. 


Bromsberrow,  Bromesbarewe,  co.  Gloucester, 
102. 

Bromston,  Brumston,  John,  199,  296,  37.^, 

407,  463,  618. 

 ..,  ,  sheriff  of  Kent,  368. 

Bromyard,  co.  Hereford,  102. 

Brondesbury,  Bronnesbury,  prebend  of.  111. 

Bronleght.    See  Bromley. 

Bronston.    See  Branston. 

Bronston,  William,    abbot   of    Burton  on 

Trent,  95,  395. 
Broodheth,  co.  Salop,  442. 
Brook,  Broke  [co.  Rutland],  213. 
Brooke,  Hugh,  8. 

 ,  Richard,  parson  of  Horsford,  267. 

Brookland,  Brokland,  co.  Kent,  283,  383,  546. 
Broomfield,  Bromefeld,  co.  Cumberland,  13. 
Broomhill,  Bromehelle,  co.  Kent,  283,  546. 
Brotherwyke,  Henry,  277. 
Brough,  Burgh,  co.  Westmoreland,  532. 
Broughall,  Broughalwode,  co.  Salop,  402. 
Brougham,     Burgbam,    co.  Westmoreland, 

264,  423,  532. 
Broughton,  Broghton,  co.  Wilts,   397,  411, 

562. 

 ,  Upper,  Broughton  Sulney,  co.  Not- 
tingham, 462. 

Broughton,  John,  168,  186,  285,  289,  405 
417,  428,  564,  570,  607. 

 ,   ,  the  elder,  366,  607. 

 ,   the  younger,  246,  248,  366,  484, 

617,  631. 

 ,   ,  Anne  his  wife,  484. 

 ,  Thomas,  349,  61  ). 

 ,  William,  366. 

BrouQ.    See  Brown. 

Brounbrom,  James,  377. 

Broundyssh,  Robert,  parson  of  Carlton  Col- 

ville,  410. 
Brounflete.    See  Bromflete. 
Brounham.    See  Burnham. 
Brouns,  Master  Thomas,  clerk  of  the  con- 

stableship  cf  England,  1 10. 
Brounyng.    See  Brownyng. 
Browe,  John,  350. 
Brown,  Broun,  Alexander,  164. 

 ,  George,  218,  351,  352,  632. 

 ,  Hugh,  315,  552. 

 ,  John,  53,  79,  120,  149,  166,  213,  226, 

412,472,  507,  618,  619. 

 ,  Richard,  575. 

 ,   ,  prior  of  Pontefract,  564. 

 ,  Robert,  509. 

 Stephen,  147. 

 ,   ,  Rose  his  wife,  147. 

 ,  Thomas,  9,  128,  432,  495. 

 ,   ,  sheriff  of  Kent,  87. 

 ,  William,  10,  60,  79,  85,  167,  174,  197, 

213,  216,  224,  316,  472,  508,  509. 

 ,   ,  Alice  his  ivife,  167,  174. 


GENERAL  INDEX. 


663 


Brown,  William,  master  of  '  le  priory  her- 
mitage '  by  Dorchester,  235. 

 ,  warden  of    the  hospital  of 

St.  Johu  Baptist,  Dorchester,  235. 

 ,   ,  master  of  '  1«  Hermitage  '  in 

Blakmore  forest,  173. 

 ,   ,  parsou  of  Little  Laver,  50. 

 ,  Wistan,  82. 

 ,  ,  197. 

Brownboyte,  Robert,  434. 

Brownehill,  John,  439. 

Browenewell,  Edward,  434. 

Brownfeld,  William,  214. 

Brownswood,  prebend  of,  412. 

Brownyng,  Brounyng,  Alexander,  parion  of 
Campe,  275. 

 ,  John,  284,  406. 

 ,  William,  79,  126,  196,  220,  351,  552, 

613. 

 ,   sherifiF  of  Somerset  and  Dorset, 

95. 

 ,  ,  the  elder,  55,  !i7. 

 ,  ,  the  younger,  55,  57. 

Brudenell,  Brittonell,  Brutenell,  Drugo,  366, 
568,  608. 

 ,  Edmund,  56,  126,  472,  608. 

Bruges,  in  Flanders,  101,  240,  307,  535. 
Bruges,  Baldwin  de,  57. 
Brugge,  James,  101. 

 ,  John,  589. 

 ,  Richard,  94. 

 ,  Thomas,  407,  453,  575,  615,  616. 

 ,  ,  of  Rosse,  198,  616. 

Brugges,  Thomas,  289,  449. 

 ,  de  la  Gruthuse,  Sir  Louis  de,  prince 

of  Steenhuse,  lord  of  Avelghien,  Spiers, 

Aemstede    and     Oestampe,   earl  of 

Winchester,  338. 
Brughill,  Master     Payn,     prebendary  of 

Windsor,  440. 
Brumley,  Bromley,  co.  Southampton,  501. 
Brumpton.    See  Bromptou. 
Brumston.    See  Bromston. 
Brundish,  co.  SuflFolk,  34,  98,  132. 
Brune,  Alice,  404. 

 ,  Henry,  404. 

 ,  Robert,  377. 

 Thomas,  490. 

Brunham  Depdale.    See  Burnham  Deepdale. 
Bruns,  Robert,  253. 
Brussels,  in  Brabant,  488. 
Bruston.    See  Burstou. 
Brustwyk.    See  Burstwick. 
Brutenell.    See  Brudenell. 
Brutewell.    See  Biadwell. 
Bruton,  co.  Somerset,  John  Hentou,  prior  of, 
533. 

Brnyen,  Alice,  444. 

 ,  Joan,  444. 

 William,  444. 

Bruyn,  John,  377. 


Bruyn,  Richard,  618. 

Bryan,  Thomas,  246,  247,  248,  317,  353,  376, 
403,  405,  408,  525,  608,  614-616,  618, 
626,  1^7,  630,  632,  633,  636. 

 ,   ,  chief  justice   of  the  King's 

Bench,  253,  258,  263,  294,  31.5,  320, 
326,  363,  364,  380-382,  386,  389,  400, 
431,  434,  443,  475,  477,  482,  498,  500, 
502,  517,  564,  575,  576,  579,  589. 

 ,  Isabel  his  wife,  477. 

Bryant,  Robert,  200. 

Bryce.    See  Brice. 

Brydde,  Richard,  515. 

 William,  parsou  of  Dorchester,  544. 

Brydwode,  Walter,  145. 
Brygewater.    See  Bridgewater. 
Brygge.    See  Brigge. 
Brygges.    See  Brigges. 

Brygger,  Walter,  under-sheriff  of  Surrey,  434. 

Brygham,  John,  187. 

Bryghtwell.    See  Brightwell. 

Brygnali,  Nicholas  de,  586,  587. 

Bryhylle.    See  Brill. 

Brykhyll.    See  Brickhill. 

Brymmesfeld.    See  Brinipsfield. 

Brjmmore.    See  Brommore. 

Brymston,  Johu,  195,  259,  352. 

  ,  127. 

Bryne,  John,  8. 

Bryuket,  Johu,  563,  567. 

Brynsworthy,  Brendesworthy,  co.  Devon,  36. 

Bryscowe.    See  Briscowe. 

Brysley,  John,  494. 

Brystowe.    See  Bristol. 

Brytte,  Nicholas,  452. 

Bubney,  co.  Salop,  402. 

Buchelde.    See  Buckholt. 

Buckden  [co.    Huutiugdon],   letters  patent 

dated  at,  468,  475,  582,  583,  595,  597- 

599,  605,  600,  611,  623. 
Bucke,  Bukke,  Johu,  495. 
 ,  Thomas,  254. 

Buckeuham,  Bukkenham  Castell,  co.  Norfolk, 
516. 

 ,  Bokeuham,  Old,  co.  Norfolk,  562. 

 ,  New,  562. 

 Little,  562. 

Buckfastleigh,  Bukfastlegh,  co.  Devon,  171, 
331. 

Buckholt,  Buchelde,  co.  Nottingham,  439. 

 Bukholt  [co.  Southampton],  348. 

Buckingham,  96,  281,  583. 

 county  of,  25,  37,  40,  52,  101,  112, 

126,  191,  195,  196,  211,  218,  222,  232, 
233,  238,  242,  246,  247,  266,  285,  289, 
329,  344,  346,  348,  349,  394,  444,  462, 
492,  496,  508,  540,  562,  565,  601. 

 ,  ,  shcriti  of,  285,  349,  492,  606. 

  And  see  Molyneux. 

 ,  ,  escheator  in,  98,  123,  200,  241, 

265,  271,  278,  292,  330,  332,  359,  391, 
400,  472,  475,  597. 


664 


GENERAL  INDEX.' 


Buckingham.    And  see   Holcote  ;    Billyng  ; 

Oxbrigge  ;  Gate  ;  Fowler  ;  Wade. 
 ,   ,  outlawries  in,  144,  202,  224, 

254,  326. 

 ,  ,  subsidy  and  ulnage  of  cloth  in, 

329,  348,  478. 

 ,  ,  justices  of  the  peace  in,  267. 

 ,   ,  commissions  of  the  peace  in, 

608. 

Buckish,  Buckyssh,  co.  Devon,  36. 
Buckland,  Bokelond,  Bukland,  co.  Hertford, 
86,  100. 

 Mary,  BokeloiidSt.  Mary.co.  Somerset, 

75. 

 Brewer,  Bukelond  Bruer,  co.  Devon, 

76. 

 Monachorum,  co.  Devon,  171,  404. 

 ,  abbey  of,  171,  251,  403,404,  408. 

 ,  William  Breton,  abbot  of,  171,  172, 

251,  403,  404,  408. 
 ,  Thomas  Oliver,  abbot  of,  171,  251, 

403,  404,  408. 
Bucknell,  Begynhill,  co.  Oxford,  88. 
Buckworth,    Bukworth,    co.  Huntingdon, 

158. 

Buckyng,  Baltizar,  277. 

Bude  Bay,  Bedebay,  co.  Cornwall,  101,  168. 

Budefeld.    See  Bidfield. 

Budleigh,  co.  Devon,  60,  187. 

 ,  East,  hundred  of,  280,  457,  529. 

 ,  West,  hundred  of,  280,  457,  529. 

Bugge,  Richard,  578. 
Bugthorpe,  co.  York,  483,  487. 
BuhuU.    See  Bowhill. 

Buildwas,  Bildewas,  co.  Salop,  Henry,  abbot 

of,  274. 
Buketon.    See  Bickton. 
Bukholt.    See  Buckholt. 
Bukhurst,  Geoffrey,  90. 
Bukland,  Thomas,  407. 
Bukley,  Geoffrey,  143. 

 ,  Eichard,  143. 

 ,  Thomas,  143. 

Buknell,  John,  89. 
Bukton,  Dominic,  353. 

 ,  Peter,  378. 

 ,  William,  200,  206. 

Bulcley,  William,  524. 
Bulfau.    See  Bulphan. 

Bulfynche,  Nicholas,  parson  of  Hovekerk, 
177,  272. 

 ,  ,  parson  of  Hareway,  178. 

Bulkelcy.  Charles,  495,  571. 

 ,  Richard,  500. 

 ,  Thomas,  496. 

Bulkyn,  William,  2. 
Bull,  John,  557,  571. 

 ,  Judoc  de,  19. 

 ,  ,  Katharine  his  wife,  19. 

Bullesdon,  John,  149. 
BuUeswell.    See  Bulwell. 


BuUingdon,  Bolyngden,  co.  Oxford,  hundred 

of,  232,  242. 
Bullinghope,  Bolyngiope,  co.  Hereford,  8, 
Bullok,  John,  214,  277. 
Bully ugbroke.    See  Bolingbroke. 
Bulman,  John,  289. 

 ,  William,  95. 

Bulphau,  Bulfan,  co.  Essex,  73. 
Bulstone,  co.  Somerset,  hundred  of,  339. 
Bulstrete,  Richard,  146. 
Bulstrode,  Richard,  349,  608. 
 ,  Robert,  55. 

Bulwell,  BuUeswell,  co.  Nottingham,  244,441, 
482. 

Bumpstead,  Bompstede,  co.  Essex,  369. 

  Helion,  297,  560. 

 ,  Steeple,  297,  369,  386,  560. 

Bungay,  Bonegay,  co.  Suffolk,  431. 
Bunten,  Cecily,  586. 
Buntingford,  co.  Hertford,  73. 
Buntyug,  Henry,  76. 

 ,  ,  William,   parson  of  Arthuret, 

21. 

 ,  ,  parson  of  St.  Andrew  Hubbard, 

Loudon,  22. 
Burcott,  CO.  Buckingham,  33. 
Burdenell,  Edmund,  55. 

 ,   ,  the  elder,  224. 

  And  see  Brudenell. 

Burdet,  Bordyt,  Thomas,  3,  81,  142,  143,  145, 

218,  324,  346,  384,  405,  634. 
Burdeux,  Jenicot  de,  355. 

 ,  Oliver  de,  394. 

Burdon,  Henry,  386. 
Burell,  John,  84. 
Bures  [co.  Essex], 25. 

 Giffard,  co.  Essex,  560. 

  St.  Mary,  co.  Suffolk,  ^5,  38. 

Burford,  co.  Oxford,  435.  ; 

 ,  Bureford  [co.  Oxford],  burgesses  of, 

555. 

Burford,  Thomas,  257. 

Burges,  Burgeys,  John,  353,  378,  580. 

 ,  Robert,  149. 

 ,  Thomas,  391. 

 ,  William,  225. 

Burget  (Burdet),  Thomas,  348. 
Burggeuorth.  See  Bridgnorth. 
Burgh,  CO.  Lincoln,  316,  508. 

 ,  CO.  Westmoreland,  264,  422, 

 ,  CO.  York,  282,  579. 

 ,  Seyntuaryburgh,  co.  Norfolk,  576. 

 in  Flegg,  co.  Norfolk,  191. 

 by  Sands,  co.  Cumberland,  13. 

  And  see  Brough. 

Burgh,  Ankaret,  294. 

 ,  Master    ISeuedict,    prebendary  of 

Bridgnorth,  210,  590. 

 ,   ,  prebendary  of  St.  Stephen's, 

Westminster,  590. 


GENERAL  INDEX. 


665 


Burgh,  Master  Benedict,  canon  of  St.  Paul's, 

London,  590. 
 Christopher,  parson  of  Sigglesthorne, 

89. 

 ,   ,  parson  of  Scrayingham,  89, 

173. 

 ,  Edward,  131. 

 ,  Elizabeth,  282. 

 ,  Elizabeth  de,  507. 

 ,  John,  79,  183,  219,  255,  285,  289, 

294,  394,  621,  627. 

 ,  ,  Joan  his  wife,  294,  394. 

 ,  John,  warden  of  the   hospital  of 

St.  John  Baptist,  Occleve,  244,  375. 

 ,   ,  escheator  of  Lincoln,  200. 

 Eichard,  454,  593. 

 ,  Robert,  383,  384. 

 Roger,  579. 

 ,   ,  Joan  his  wife,  579. 

 ,  Thomas,  28,  S."),  70,  128,  131,  162, 

171,  195,  199,  200,  221,  310,  350,  352, 
354,  356,  410,  411,  479,  490,  517,  518, 
523,  583,  619-621,  625,  634. 

 ,  William,  215,  282,  325,  637. 

Burgham.    See  Brougham. 

Burgham,  Robert,  520. 

Burghbrigge.    See  Boroughbridge. 

Burgony,  John,  579. 

Burgoyn,  John,  577,  609. 

 ,  Thomas,  28,  609. 

Burgundy,  83. 

 ,  duke  of,  57,  101,  240,  270,  429. 

 ,  Charles,  duke  of,  97,  104,  282,  440. 

 ,  Philip,  duke  of,  57,  129. 

 ,  Margaret,  duchess  of,  39,  300. 

Burham,  Berham,  co.  Kent,  257. 
Burhampton,  co.  Wilts,  177. 
Burleton,  Roger,  304. 

 William,  304. 

 ,  Alice  his  wife,  304. 

Burley,  in  the  New  Forest,  co.  Southampton, 

52,  88. 
Burn.    See  Bourn. 
Burnaldeshode.    See  Burneside. 
Burnard,  Walter,  145. 
Burno  St.  Mary.    See  St.  Mary  Bourne. 
Burneby,  Eustace,  342. 

 ,  Eustace  de,  536. 

 ,  Matilda  his  wife,  536. 

Burnell,  Henry,  221,  628. 
 ,  Simon,  10. 

Burneside,  Burnaldeshede,  co.  Westmoreland, 
45,  532. 

Burnestoii,  Beruestowne,  co.  York,  556. 

Burnet,  John,  324. 

Bumham,  co,  Buckingham,  147,  287. 

 ,  CO.  Essex,  12. 

 ,  Brounham,  co.  Norfolk,  237,  308. 

  Deepdale,  co.  Norfolk,  255. 

  Market,  co.  Norfolk,  255. 


Buruham  Sutton,  co.  Norfolk,  470. 

 ,  Upper.  Upperburneham,  co.  Liu- 

coln,  157. 

 ,  Nether,  Netherburneham,  co.  Liu- 

coln,  157. 
Burnolleshede.    See  Burneside. 
Buron,  John,  426. 

 ,   ,  parson  of  Chilton  Canteloe, 

305. 

Burshamwelle.    See  Barsham. 
Burston,  Bruston,  co.  Norfolk,  448. 
Burston,  Thomas,  164. 

Burstwick,   Brustwyk,  in    Holdernesse,  co. 

York,  585. 
Burtofte,  William,  291. 
Burton  [co.  Wilts],  197. 

 ,  CO.  York,  483,  486,  487. 

 by  Lincoln,  co.  Lincoln,  316. 

 ,  No.'th,  Northburton,  co.  York,  75. 

  on  Trent,  co.  StalFord,  95. 

 ,  letters  patent  dated  at,  396,  397. 

 ,  abbey  of    S.S.    Mary  and 

Modwenua,  391. 

   ,  convent  of,  95,  395. 

 ,   ,  Dan  William  Bronstoo, 

abbot  of,  95,  395. 
 ,   ,  Thomas  Feld,  abbot  of, 

387,  391. 

Burton  St.  Lazarus  of  Jerusalem,  hospital  of, 
William  Sutton,  master  of,  405,  501. 

Burton,  Edward,  471. 

 ,  John,  99,  204,  289. 

 ,   ,  parson  of  Drayton  Parslow, 

263. 

 ,  Richard,  443. 

 ,  Robert,  580. 

 ,  Simon,  127,  158,  263,  289,  352,  405, 

024,  027,  414,  531,  570,  624,  027. 

 Thomas,  179,  212,  402,  G17. 

 ,  ,  parson  of  Little  Laver,  398. 

 ,  William,  99,  289,  357. 

Burwell,  co.  Lincoln,  243. 

Bury  St.  Edmunds,  co.  Suffolk,  3,  143,  149, 

151,  202,  203,  292,  385,  401,  431,  434, 

439,  499,  579. 

 ,  Parliament  at,  06. 

 abbey  of,  186,  242,  470. 

 ,  abbot  and  convent  of,  241. 

 ,  prior  and  convent  of,  183,  180,  475. 

 ,  John  lloou,  abbot  of,  183,  186. 

 ,  Richard  llengham,  abbot  of,  470. 

 ,  Robert  Ixworth,  abbot  of,  180,  470, 

475. 

Bury  Maner  in  Wiugrave,  co.  Buckingham, 
56. 

Bury,  John,  265,  281. 

 ,    prebendary  of  St.  George's, 

Windsor,  308. 

 ,  Ralph,  155. 

 ,  Richard,  289. 

 ,  Thomas,  405. 


666 


GENERAL  INDEX. 


Busby,  CO.  York,  483,  486,  487. 
Bushey,  co.  Hertford,  286,  512,  543,  567. 
Bushy  [co.  Middlesex],  574. 
Bussh,  Busche,  Kichard,  72. 
Busshawe,  Keginald,  98. 
Busshe,  John,  620,  621. 

 ,  Thomas,  591. 

Bussheby,  John,  525. 
Busshell,  John,  16,  76. 
Busshop,  Peter,  424. 
Bussy,  John,  576. 
Butleigh,  CO.  Somerset,  256. 
Butler,  chief.  See  Wenlok ;  Boteler;  Stafford ; 
Wydeville. 

Butler,  or  Ormonde,  .Tames,  earl  of  Wiltshire, 
18,  20,  22,  25,  26,  32,  36,  38,  44,  59, 
64,  65,  68,  83,  126,  211,  279,  419,  426, 
428,  441,  466,  470,  480,  536. 

 ,   ,  Eleanor,  his  wife,  211. 

 ,  John,  141,  365,  480. 

 ,  Thomas,  36. 

 ,   ,  Anne  his  wife,  36. 

Butley,  Butleigh,  co.  Suffolk,  110. 

 ,  prior  of,  449. 

Butte,  John,  579. 

Butteler.    See  Boteler  ;  Butler. 

Buxhale,  Thomas,  master  of  the  college  of 
Fotheriughay,  414. 

Buxhall,  Thomas,  261. 

Buxton,  John,  581. 

Bycar.    See  Bicker. 

Byckeley,  John,  warden  of  the  hospital  of 
St.  John  Baptist,  Shrewsbury,  227. 

Byconell,  Bygonell,  John,  220,  427,  464,  490, 
533,  5.52,  612. 

Byde,  Robert,  118. 

Bydeford.    See  Bideford. 

Byeston,  Richard,  141. 

Byford,  Louis,  287. 

Bygge.    See  Bigge. 

Byggynges,  Thomas,  334,  383. 

Bygnower,  William,  53. 

Bygonell.    See  Byconell. 

Bykelyswade.    See  Biggleswade. 

Bykenhill,  John,  406,  628. 

Bykerton.    See  Bickerton. 

Bykylyswade.    See  Biggleswade. 

Bylby.    See  Bylsby. 

Bylley,  John,  383. 

Byllyng.    See  Billyng. 

Byllyngdon.    See  Billyngdon. 

Byllyngton,  John,  320. 

Bylmyne,  William,  221,  323. 

Bylsby,  Bylby,  Thomas,  299. 

Bylston.    See  Bildestou. 

Bylsyngton,  Robert,  101. 

Bylton,  Nicholas,  87. 

Bynamy.    See  Binhamy. 

Bynbroke.    See  Binbrook. 

Bynde,  John,  72. 


Byngham.    See  Bingham. 

Byngham,  Richard,  28,  70,  75,  102,  103,  117, 
127,  128,  170,  171,  200,  221,  247-249, 
251,  407,  614,  624,  625,  627,  630,  634, 
636. 

 ,  ,  justice  of  the  King's  Bench, 

227,  229. 

 ,   ,  the  younger,  247. 

 ,  Robert,  385. 

 ,  Thomas,  407,  441. 

  William,  131. 

Byrcheholt.    See  Bircholt. 
Byrcher.    See  Bircher. 
Byrd,  Byrde,  John,  147,  218,  576. 
 ,  Ralph,  433. 

 ,  Robert,  rector  of  Farnham,  390. 

 ,  William,  110. 

  And  see  Birde. 

Byrkbek,    Thomas,    parson    of  Papworth 

Everard,  332. 
Byrkyn.    See  Birkin. 
Byrkyn,  John,  305. 
Byrley,  Richard,  421. 

 ,  Thomas  a,  362. 

Byrlyng.    See  Birliug. 
Byrmyngham.    See  Birmingham. 
Byrmyngeham,  Fulk,  78. 
Byrmyngham,  William,  7. 
Byrnand,  Ralph,  10, 
Bysseley.    See  Bisley. 
Byssetter,  John,  285. 
Bysshop,  John,  300,  381. 

 Thomas,  49,  331. 

 ,  William,  576. 

  And  see  Bisshop. 

Bysshopesthewe,  co.  Somerset,  10. 
Bysshoppyston.    See  Bishopstone, 
Byskley.    See  Bixley. 
Bystrete,  Robert,  225,  325. 
Bythewater,  William,  582. 
Bytteswell.    See  Bitteswell. 
Byworth,  Robert,  387. 


c. 

Cabowe,  Thomas,  144. 
Caccheare,  Edmund,  500. 
Caddington,  Cadyngton,  co.  Bedford,  204. 
Cade,  Robert,  parson  of  Carlton  Colville, 
410. 

 ,  ,  parson  of  Aylesby,  142. 

Caen,  in  Normandy,  church  and  monks  of 
St.  Stephen,  163. 

 ,  abbey  of  Holy  Trinity,  238. 

Caerdynan.    See  Cardinham. 


GENERAL  INDEX. 


667 


Caermarthen,  Kermerdyn,  60,  165,  180. 

 ,  charter  dated  at,  369. 

 ,  county  of,  116,  166,  185,  275. 

Calais,  14,  19,  20,  22,  26,  64,  83,  86,  96, 
109,  155,  165,  204,  205,  210,  213,  214, 
217,  222,  228,  270,  271,  281,  290-292, 
295,  303,  307,  313,  335,  338,  367,  388, 
392,  393,  397,  420,  421,  431,  437,  448, 
459,  468,  475,  494,  522,  523,  525,  528, 
551,  554,  555,  559,  567,  570,  586. 

 ,  charter  dated  at,  343. 

 ,  marches  of,  20,  125,  177,  178,  204, 

270,  295,  303,  313,  335,  392,  397,  437, 
455,  469,  468,  475,  494,  522,  523,  525, 
570. 

 ,  captain  of,  270,  290,  513. 

 ,    lieutenant    of.     See    Hasty nges  ; 

Whetehill ;  Wydeville. 
 ,  treasurer  of,  211,  270,  271,  411,  459, 

591. 

  And  see  Thrj  ske  ;  Clifton  ;  Blount. 

 ,  controller  of,  26. 

  And  see  Whetehill. 

 ,  mint,  coinage  at,  26,  138,  1  19,  227, 

239,  314. 

 ,  victualler  of,  411. 

  And  see  Husee  ;  'I'hryske  ;  Wolseley. 

 ,  port  of,  475,  489,  552. 

 ;  St.  Mary,  568. 

 ,  St.  Nicholas,  260. 

 ,  '  Goddeshouse  '  hy,  273. 

 ,  staple  of,  87,  126,  160,  415,  471,  489, 

533,  543,  545,  546,  .555,    571,  573, 

587. 

 ,   ,  merchants  of,  5,  11,  96,  212, 

213,  270,  290,  291,  315,  316,  .347,  388, 

411,  489,  495,  513,  596. 
 ,   mayor  of.     See  Thryske  ; 

Whetehill  ;    Wor=ley  ;    (irantham  ; 

Yong. 

 ,  ship  called  le  Barye  of,  201. 

 ,          Ic  Old  Barge,  355. 

 le  Neivebarge,  355. 

 ,  le  Marynrcte,  496. 

 ,  le  Trinitr,  489,  495. 

Calceby,  Calsby,  co.  Lincoln,  279. 
Calcombe.    See  Colcombe. 
Calcote,  Richard,  320,  627. 
Caldbeck,  co.  Cumberland,  13,  25,  137. 
Caldbek,  Caldebek,  John,  323,  581. 

 ,  Ralph,  581. 

Caldecote,  co.  Northampton,  582. 

Caldecote,  Robert,  496. 

Calder  river,  co.  Cumberland,  25. 

Caldon,  John,  78,  82. 

Caldwell,  co.  Derby,  389. 

Caldwell,  Caldewell,  Uenediut,  552. 

 Thomas,  523. 

Caldy,  John,  288. 

Ir  Cale,  in  Ireland,  395. 

Cftlehill,  CO.  Kent,  hundred  of,  302. 


Calewey,  John,  32,  33. 

 William,  118. 

Calf,  Maurice,  493. 
Calgarth,  co.  Westmoreland,  334,  532. 
Callegh.    See  Chawleigh. 
Callerton,  Calverton,  High,  co.  Northumber- 
land, 523. 

  Valens,  523. 

Callewodelegh.    See  Calwodeley. 
Calmady,  John,  104. 
Caiman,  William,  331. 
Calne,  CO.  Wilts,  242. 

 ,  hundred  of,  242. 

Calowe,  John,  36. 

 ,  William,  127,  352. 

Calrowe,  co.  Salop,  436 . 
Calsby.    See  Calceby. 
Calthorn,  Thomas,  153. 

Calthorpe,  William,  197,  245,  247,  249,  250, 

254,  353,  406,  606„622. 
Calveley,  Hugh,  193,  200. 
Calvard.  Thomas,  214,  277. 
Calverd,  Richard,  146. 
Calver  Hill,  Kalverhill,  co.  Hereford,  41. 
Calverhull,  Wiiliiun,  146. 
Calverley,  Richard,  580. 

 ,  Marjory  his  wife,  580. 

Calverton,  co.  Buckingham,  560. 

  And  see  Callerton. 

Calwodeley,   Callewodelegh,    Thomas,  187, 

351,  407,  464,  612. 

 ,  mayor  of  Exeter,  127. 

Calyngewode,  Richard,  389. 
Cambon,  Robert,  321. 

Cambridge,  8,  '22,  83,  147,  223,  232,  233.  325, 
346,  451. 

 ,  ma3or  of.   Sec  Coke ;  Croft ;  Damay. 

 ,  statute  of,  28. 

 ,  University  of,  241. 

 ,  Friars  Minor  of,  471. 

 ,  commissions  of  the  peace  in,  609. 

Cambridge  colleges  : 

Clarehall,  masters  and  fellows  of,  538. 

St.  Catharine's,  544. 

 master  and  fellows  of,  589. 

Goddeshous,  proctor,  master  or  warden 
and  scholars  of,  130. 

 ,  William  Basset,  proctor  of,  130. 

 ,  William  Fallan,  proctor  of,  130. 

King's,  provost  and  scholars  of,  238,  240, 
518. 

  Robert  Wodelarke,  provost  of, 

240,  481. 

King's  Hall,  358. 

 ,  Master  Thomas  Seintjuste,  master 

of,  32. 

 ,  Master  John  Gunthorpe,  master 

of,  32,  114,  358,  367. 

  Master  Roger  Rotherham,  warden 

of,  367. 


668 


GENERAL  INDEX. 


Cambridge  colleges — covt. 

Queen's,  president  and  fellows  of,  394. 

 ,  Master  Andrew  Doket,  president 

of,  394. 

St.  Mary  and  St.  Nicholas.    See  King's. 
St.   Margaret   and   St.  Bernard.  See 
Queen's. 

Cambridge,  county  of,  33,  61,  87,  88,  100,  101, 
114,  127,  138,  169,  170,  196,  206,  218, 
232,  242,  245,  248,  285,  329,  348,  349, 
352,  367,  406,  430,  462,  492,  494,  496, 
504,  513,  544,  551,  594, 

 ,   ,  sherifif  of,  22,  114,  252,  285, 

349,  406,  462,  492,  494,  544. 

 ,   ,  escheator  in,  98,  186,  205,  271, 

332,  391,  400,  470,  481. 

  And  see   Pilkington  ;   Laurence  ; 

Hamond. 

 ,   ,  outlawry  iu,  4,  73,  74,  141,  223, 

320,  325,  380,  432,  4S6,  499,  581. 

 ,   ,  subsidy  and  ulnage  of  cloth  in, 

329,  348,  478. 

 ,   ,  commissions  of  the  peace  in, 

609. 

Cameley,  Camley,  co.  Somerset,  499. 
Camelford,  co.  Cornwall,  burgesses  of,  520. 
Camell,  Hugh,  81. 

Camerton,  Camlerton,  co.  Somerset,  431. 
Camfeer  in  Zeeland,  ship  called  le  Antony  of, 
303. 

Camilio  de  Medicis,  Prosper,  586,  587. 

Camlerton.    See  Camerton. 

Campe,  in  the  diocese  of  Terouanne,  275,  538. 

Campe,  William,  225,  326. 

Camps,  CO.  Cambridge,  297,  560. 

Campyon,  John,  142. 

Camynges,  Thomas,  mayor  of  London,  120. 
Camysasshe,  co.  Somerset,  534. 
Canceller,  Thomas,  563. 
Candaver,  Henry,  183. 
Candeler,  John,  320. 

Candour,  Candor,  Thomas,  307,  317,  390, 
511. 

Candy,  William,  256. 

Canerell,  Peter,  master  of  the  hospital  of 
Sanctingfeld  by  Wissant,  398. 

(IJanesho,  co.  Bedford,  191. 

Canewdon,  Cauwedon,  co.  Essex,  32,  137. 

Canfield,  Canefeld,  co.  Essex,  297,  543,  547, 
563,  567. 

 ,  Little,  192. 

Canford  [co.  Dorset],  208. 

Caniziani,  Gerard,  11,  132,  160,  273,  401, 
466,  468,  481,  547. 

 ,  ,  Ehzabeth  his  wife,  466. 

Canne,  Richard,  8. 

Cannings,  co.  Wilts,  587. 

Cannock,  Cank,  Cankewode,  co.  Stafford,  273. 

 ,  forest  of,  12,  15,  82,  233. 

Cannyng,  Philip,  323. 

Cauone,  John,  abbot  of  St.  John's,  Colchester, 
108. 


Canons,  David,  108. 
Cantele  in  Berneo,  in  Spain,  602. 
Cantelowe,  Henry,  487. 
Cantelowes,  co.  Suffolk,  536. 
Canterin,  Jerome,  213. 

Canterbury,  co.  Kent,  94,  97,  204,  296,  301, 
348,  368,  445,  462,  492,  496,  556,  585, 
590. 

 ,  charters  dated  at,  425,  426,  601. 

 ,  letters  patent  dated  at,  531,  533,  535- 

538,  540-542,  549,  551. 

 ,  subsidy  and  ulnage  of  cloth  in,  348. 

 ,  Westgatestrete  by,  302. 

 ,  province  of,  99,  125. 

 ,  diocese  of,  42,  93,  244,  469. 

 ,  archbishopric  of,  125,  126. 

 ,    archbishop     of.    See    Bourchier  ; 

Becket. 

 ,  Christ  Church,  le  Croft  in,  388,  415. 

 ,  prior  and  convent  of,  375,  387, 

541. 

 ,   ,  prior  of,  92,  446. 

 ,   ,  William,  prior  of,  375,  387, 

541. 

 ,  St.  Augustine's  abbey,  237. 

 ,  abbot  and  convent  of,  237,  240. 

 ,  abbot  of,  143. 

 ,  William,  abbot  of,  463,  618. 

Cantley,  co.  Norfolk,  34,  132. 
Cantokkeshed.    See  Quantockshead. 
Cantref  Mawr  [co.  Caermarthen] ,  165,  184, 
275. 

Canwedon.    See  Canewdon. 
Canynges.    See  All  Cannings. 
Canynges,  William,  62,  118,  347. 

 ,   ,  mayor  of  Bristol,  29,  92. 

 ,   ,  Joan,  his  wife,  62. 

Cape,  the,  co.  Cornwall,  354. 
Capel,  CO.  Suffolk,  515. 
Capell,  CO.  Kent,  70,  71. 
Capell  [co.  Kent],  116. 
Capell,  William,  509. 
Cappe,  John,  525. 
Cappis,  Robert,  406. 
CapuU,  George,  101. 
Carant,  Carent,  John,  55,  57. 

 ,  the  elder,  39,  196,  219,  220. 

 ,   ,  the  younger,  39,  196,  219,  220, 

351,  573,  613. 
 ,  William,  39,  5.5,  57,  113,  220,  247, 

406,  573,  613. 

 ,   ,  Katharine  his  wife,  113. 

Carberton,  John,  76. 

Carclew,  Crokelue,  co.  Cornwall,  363. 

Cardemaker,  John,  182. 

 ,  William,  73,  164,  502,  503. 

Cardewe,  Stephen,  581. 
Cardiff,  co.  Glamorgan,  28. 
Cardigan,  166,  180,  185,  260. 
 county  of,  116,  166,  185,  275. 


GENERAL  INDEX. 


669 


Cardington,  co.  Bedford,  191. 
Cardinham,  Cardinan,  Caerdynan,  co.  Corn- 
wall, 58,  235. 
Cardwell,  Alexander,  571. 
Careles,  John,  225. 
Carell,  Ralph,  146. 

Carethorp,  John,  parson  of  Bisley,  19. 
Carew,  Carrewe,  Carue,  John,  189,  205. 

 ,  Nicholas,  189,  205,  220,  289. 

 ,   ,  sheriff  of  Devon,  308. 

 ,  William,  101. 

Carewe,   Carrowe,    William,   escheator  of 

Devon  and  Cornwall,  292. 
Cargo,  CO.  Cumberland,  531. 
Carhampton,  Little,  co.  Somerset,  194,  522. 
Carisbrook,  Casebroke,  Isle  of  Wight,  co. 

Southampton,  61,  290. 
Carlele,  John,  mayor  of  Newcastle  on  Tyne, 

605. 

Carles,  William,  251. 
Carleton,  Robert,  407. 

 William,  353. 

Carlhill,  Jolm,  490. 

Carlile,  John,  562. 

Carlingford,  in  Ireland,  165. 

Carlion  [co.  Cumberland],  215. 

Carlisle,  co.  Cumberland,  13,  25,  73,  147, 

209,  214,  264,  277,  290,  291,  333,  347, 

386,  413,  556. 

 ,  citizens  of,  556. 

 ,  charter  dated  at,  14. 

 subsidy  and  ulnage  of  cloth  in,  333, 

347. 

 ,  bishop  of.  See  Scrope  ;  Story  ;  Ire- 
ton  ;  Mauclerk. 

,„  ,  prior  and  canons  of,  17,  83. 

 ,  diocese  of  21. 

 ,  bishopric  of,  84,  134. 

Carlton,  co.  Lincoln,  508. 

 ,  Great,  202. 

 ,  Karleton,  co.  Suffolk,  484. 

  Colville,   Karleton    Colvilde,  co. 

SuflFolk,  410. 

 ,  Carleton  [co.  York],  483,  486,  487. 

  in  Cleveland,  483,  48(5,  487. 

 ,  by  Coverdale,  483,  486,  487. 

 .,  by  Snnith,  co.  York,  179. 

 ,  by  Ilclmsley,  co.  York,  458,  .530. 

Carlylle,  Richard,  103,  607. 

Carmelites.    See  Mount  Carmel. 

Carnier,  William,  521. 

Curmynowe,  John,  200,  246,  399,  552,  573, 
010. 

Carnarvon,  107,  108. 

 ,  burgesses  of  121. 

 ,  exchequer  of,  165. 

 ,  charter  dated  at,  134. 

  county  of,  107,  108,  165. 

 ,  ^he^fl:' of.    Sec  Devercux  ;  Herbert. 

('arne.    See  Cerne, 


Carnebole,  Henry,  14. 

Carnforth,  Carnford,  Kerneford  [co.  Lan- 
caster], 334,  531. 

Carnsuyowe,  Camsyvyowe,  William,  280, 
491. 

Carpenter,  John,  7,  102,  287,  501. 

 ,   ,  bishop  of  Worcester  [1444- 

1476],  328,  333,  399,  442,  598,  614, 

634,  636. 

 ,  Peter,  153. 

 ,  William,  203,  255. 

Carre,  John,  22,  289. 

 Nicholas,  278. 

Carrewe.    See  Carew. 

Carrickfergus,  Cragfergus,  Knokvergous,  in 
Ireland,  123,  161,  162,  583,  596. 

Carrowe.    .See  Carewe. 

Carryk,  Richard,  mayor  of  Woodstock,  352. 

Carter,  Curtour  Clement,  498. 

 ,  John,  203,  4  J3,  553. 

 ,  Richard,  116. 

 ,  William,  305,  318. 

Carthusian  order,  l:ij,  157,  304,  436,  585. 

Cartmell,  John,  185,  340. 

Cartour.    See  Carter. 

Cartwryght,  Edward,  141. 

Cartyngton,  John,  350,  490,  605,  624. 

Carvanell,  Michael,  52,  169,  184,  201,  317, 
488,  495,  511. 

Carvergh  by  St.  Austell,  co.  Cornwall,  581. 

Carvyle,  Ralph,  parson  of  Chilton,  96. 

Carwynnek,  John,  109. 

Cary,  co.  Devon,  24,  45. 

Cary,  Philip,  46. 

 ,  Cristina  his  wife,  46. 

 William,  24,  27,  40,  473. 

Cascombe,  William,  39. 
Case,  John,  84,  80. 

 Thomas  6. 

Casebroke.    See  Carisbrook. 
Cassy,  John,  349,  407,  453,  614. 
Castelcoule,  profit  called,  236. 
Castelford,  Richard,  432. 
Castelfur,  llamo,  198. 
Castelion,  Castilion,  Ralph,  208,  409. 
Castell,  Isabel,  8. 

 John,  8,  384. 

 ,  Ralph,  482. 

 ,  William,  8. 

Castertou  [co.  Westmoreland],  334,531,  532. 
Casthurpe  (in  Barrowby),  co.  Lincoln,  398. 
Castile,  450,  000. 

  and  Leon,  the  king  of,  288,  317,  319, 

354,  480,  600,  602,  603. 

 ,  Henry,  king  of,  474. 

Castilion.    See  Castelion. 

Castle  Acre,  co.  Norfolk,  144. 

Castle  Eaton,  Castcleton,  co.  Wilts,  327,  373, 

Castle  Hediiigliaui,  Ilcngliani  at  the  CiiMlc, 

CO.  Essex,  207,  318,  547. 


670 


GENERAL  INDEX. 


Castle  Pulverbatch,  co.  Salop,  365. 
Castlerickard,  Castell  Rickard,  co.  Meath,  598. 
Castle  Eising,  Risyngcastcll,  co.  Norfolk,  107. 
Castre  Bardolf,  co.  Norfolk,  34,  132. 
Castro,  in  Spain,  ship  called  le  Katerine  of, 
378. 

Casun,  Peter,  359. 

Catane,  Angelo,  294. 

Catchemay,  Thomas,  502. 

Caterall,  John,  307,  419. 

Catesby,  John,  30,  55,  70,  170,  179,  193,  320, 
339,  377,  405,  530,  570,  573,  574,  610, 
612,  613,  623,  628,  629,  632,  635. 

 ,  Robert,  parson  of  Ladbroke,  542. 

 ,  William,  158,  218,  403,  405,  530,  531, 

557,  570,  571,  597,  623,  632,  634. 

 ,  ,  sheriff  of  Hereford,  4. 

Cathorp,  co.  Lincoln,  34,  132. 

Catmere,  Edmund,  250. 

Catore,  Catour,  Elizabeth,  477. 

 ,  John,  477. 

Catryngton,  John,  407. 

Catsash,  Cattesasshe,  co.  Somerset,  hundred 

of,  32,  137. 
Cattal,  Henry,  502. 
Catte,  James,  225. 

 ,  Richard,  128. 

 ,  William,  123. 

Cattesasshe.    See  Catsash. 
Cattistock,  Cattestoke,  co.  Dorset,  234. 
Catton,  CO.  Norfolk,  93. 

 ,  CO.  York,  483,  487. 

Cattys,  John,  110. 
Catur,  Alice,  200. 

 ,  Joan,  194. 

 ,  John,  194,  200. 

 Robert,  193,  194,  200. 

Catworth,  Great,  co.  Huntingdon,  503. 
Caudray,  Richard,  dean  of  St.   Martin  le 

Grand,  London,  99. 
Caumpe,  William,  225,  326. 
Caunton,  David,  parson   of  Llangoedmore, 

333. 

Cans,  Caurs,  co.  Salop,  432. 
Causeway,  Canswey  [in  Uadipole] ,  co.  Dorset, 
326. 

Causton.    See  Cawston. 
Causy,  Roger,  149. 

 ,  Agnes  his  wife,  149. 

Cauthorn,  John,  527. 

Caux,  Anne  do,  the  king's  nurse,  439. 

Cavell,  Henry,  280. 

Cavendish,  Caundyssh,  co.  Suffolk,  89,  432. 
Caversbam,  co.  Oxford,  382. 
Cawase,  John,  3. 
Cawedon.    See  Canewdon. 
Cawethorn,  John,  377. 
Cawod,  John,  384,  431. 
Cawode,  Kaywode,  William,  212. 
Caworth.    See  Keyworth. 


Cawaton,  Causton,  co.  Norfolk,  93,  387. 
Caxton,  German  de,  561. 

 ,  Thomas,  303,  489. 

 ,  William,  332. 

Cayleway.    See  Kayleway. 
Cayre,  in  Brittany,  ship  called  le  Marye  of, 
605. 

Cayso,  CO.  Bedford,  191. 
Cayton,  Richard,  193,  200. 
Cecily,  duchess  of  York,  the  king's  mother, 
184,  361,  439,  447,  538,  563,  .584,  599. 

 ,  grants  to,  89,  108,  151. 

Cedewain,  Kedewyn,  in  North  Wales,  22. 
Cely,  Alexander,  565. 

Cerne,  Carne,  co.  Dorset,  abbey  of,  240,  241, 
279. 

 ,  convent  of,  235,  279. 

 ,  abbot  of  93. 

 ,  John  Vanne,  abbot  of,  235,  240,  279. 

 ,  Roger  Bemyster,  abbot  of,  240,  241, 

272,  279. 
Cervyngton,  Nicholas,  17,  107. 
Cery,  Kery,  in  North  Wales,  22. 
Chacombe,  John,  10. 

Chadacre,  Chardeacre,  in    Shimpling,  co. 

Suffolk,  297,  556. 
Chaderton.    See  Chaterton. 
Chadgrave.    See  Chedgrave. 
Chadwall,  William,  53. 
Chadworth,  William,  28,  145,  248,  463,  622. 

  And  see  Chedworth. 

Chafee,  John,  406. 
Chagford,  co.  Devon,  27. 
Chalk,  CO.  Wilts,  prebend  of,  518. 
Chalk,  John,  318. 
Chaldebourne.    See  Shalbourn. 
Chaldrington.    See  Cholderton. 
Chalford,  co.  Gloucester,  453. 
Challerton,  Richard,  268. 
Challesworth,  Richard,  276. 
Challey,  Geoffrey,  204. 
Chalons,  Thomas,  331. 
Chalvelegh.    See  Chawleigh. 
Chamberleyn,  Chambrelaine,  John,  143. 

 ,  Nicholas,  472. 

 ,  Richard,  312,  568. 

 ,  Robert,  492,  51 .5,  536,  569,  606. 

 ,  ,  Elizabeth  his  wife,  515. 

 ,  Robert,  sheriff  of  Merioneth,  193. 

 ,  Walter,  84. 

 William,  312,  383. 

Charaberuon.    See  Champernon. 
Chambers,  in  Epping,  co.  Essex,  536. 
Chamblcy,  David,  308. 
Chanibre,  Chaumbre,  Henry,  291. 
 ,  John,  44,271. 

 ,  ,  escheator  of  Northampton  and 

Rutland,  48. 

 ,  Richard,  405. 

 Thomas,  40,  352,  421,  565. 


GENERAL  INDEX. 


671 


Chambre,  William,  144,  405,  624. 

 ,  Elizabeth  his  wife,  144. 

Champe,  William,  rector  of  Lasham,  106. 
Champernoun,  Elizabeth,  116. 
 ,  Joan,  116,  564. 

 ,  John,  102,  251,  327,  407,  564,  610, 

612. 

 ,  Margaret,  116. 

 ,  Marjory,  116. 

 Mary,  116. 

 ,  Kichard,  116. 

 Koger,  327. 

Champfloure,  John,  417. 
Champion,  John,  546. 
Champneys,  Nicholas,  147,  433. 
 ,  William,  5. 

Chancery,  28-.'iO,  49, 53-55,  57,71,  81,  85,  96, 
102,  104,  120,  131,  134.  153,  182,  195, 
197,  199,  213,  234,  237,  244,  248,  250- 
252,  267,  273,  275,  286,  287,  289,  295, 
299,  315,  317-319,  333,  339,  341,  352- 
354,  356,  357,  359,  360,  362,  366-369, 
374,  377,  402-404,  408,  413,  422,  424, 
427,  428,  444,  450,  464,  469,  473,  476, 
478,  480,  481,  512,  515,  565,  568,  593, 
594,  600,  601,  604. 

 ,  clerks  of,  48,  i49,   228,  232,  337, 

426,  468. 

 ,  prothonotary  of.    See  Sharp. 

 chafewax  in,  115,  514. 

 ,  rolls  of,  keeper  of,  491. 

  And  see  Kirkeham  ;  Morland  ;  Al- 

cok  ;  Morton. 

Chandeler.    See  Chaundeler. 

Chantries,  foundation  of,  14,  21,  46,  62,  88, 
90,  112,  113,  185,  192,209,231,311, 
340.  3,08,  361,  400,  417,  420,  425,  443, 
449,  460,  468,  476,  484,  523,  542,  563, 
564,  566,  568,  569,  596,  600. 

Changton,  Walter,  84. 

 ,  William,  84. 

 ,  ,  Matilda  his  wife,  84, 

Chapecombe,  co.  Somerset,  373. 

Chapeloyn,  Kichard,  419. 

Chapelizod  [co.  Dublin],  458,  598. 

Chapman,  Alice,  123. 

 ,  Henry,  17. 

 ,  John,  141,  217,  575. 

 ,  Richard,  73. 

 ,  Roger,  502. 

 Stephen,  mayor  of  Plymouth,  109. 

 ,  Thoma.s,  409,  575. 

 ,  William,  88,  144. 

Chard,  Philip,  177. 

Chardeacre.    See  Chadacre. 

Charito  sur  Loire,   Ste    Marie,   Louis  de 

Swilleyo,  prior  of,  274. 
 ,  Dan    William    Hrekenok,    prior  of, 

390. 

Charles,  Thomas,  110,  499. 

 ,  ,  Elizabeth  his  wife,  110. 

  And  sec  Ubarlys. 


Charleton,  Richard,  349. 

 ,  Robert,  247,  249,  627. 

Charlton,  co.  Dorset,  63. 

 ,  CO.  Wilts,  priory  of,  461. 

  Mackrell,  co.  Somerset,  457,  530. 

Charlwood,  co.  Surrey,  237. 
Charlys,  Richard,  432. 

Gharnock,  Chernok  Gogard,  co.  Lancaster, 

141,  142. 
Chart,  CO.  Kent,  hundred  of,  302. 

 ,  Great,  568. 

Charter  printed  at  length,  13. 
Chartessey,  William,  318. 
Chartley.    See  Devereu.x. 
Chate,  Peter,  495. 

Chaterton,  Chaderton,  Edmund,  inast«r  of 
the  hospital  of  St.  Leonard,  Stoke, 
585. 

 prebendary  of  St.  Asaph,  585. 

 ,           prebendary  of  Southwell,  559. 

 ,  ,  prebendary  of  St.  Stephen's, 

Westminster,  559. 

 ,  Henry,  280,  360,  580. 

Chatham,  Chetham,  co.  Kent,  188,  371. 

 ,  hospital  of  St.  Bartholomew,  561. 

 and  Gillingham,  hundred  of,  301. 

Chattok,  Robert,  515. 

 William,  16.0,  192. 

Chaucer,  Thomas,  65,  66. 

Chaundeler,  Chandeler,  Thomas,  374,  626. 

 ,   chancellor  of  the  University 

of  Oxford,  626. 
 ,  prebendary  of  St.  Stephen's, 

Westminster,  560. 

 ,   ,  prebendary  of  Southwell,  560. 

 ,  Walter,  432. 

Chaundre,  Richard,  43. 
Chauntrell,  John,  289,  357. 
  William,  268. 

Chauntry,  WilUam,  parsou  of  Scrayingham, 
173. 

 ,   ,  parson  of  Papworth  Everard, 

174. 

 archdeacon  of  Derby,  517. 

Chaureth,  Chawrey  (iu  Broxted),  co.  Essex, 
416. 

Cbawleigh,  Chalvclegh,  Callngh,  co.  Devon, 
23,  174,  176,  189,  280,  457,  486,  529. 

Chawrey.    See  Chaureth. 

Chearsley,  Chordesle,  co.  Ruckiugham,  152. 

Chechestre.    See  Chichester. 

Cbeddington,  Thetyngdon,  co.  Buckingham, 
135. 

Chedgrave,  Chadgrave,  co.  Norfolk,  508. 

Chedworth,  John,  bishop  of  Lincoln  [1452- 
71],  23,  39,  98,  107,  181,  205,  239, 
241,  252,  255,  261,  283,  292,  295,  332, 
432,  607,  6ua,  617-621,  623,  625,  626. 

 ,  archdeacon  of  Lincoln,  580. 

 ,  prebendary  of  King's  Sutton, 

580. 


672 


GENERAL  INDEX. 


Chedworth,  William,  147,  432,  580. 

 ,   ,  Joan  his  wife,  580. 

  And  see  Chadworth. 

Chedyngston.    See  Chlddingstone. 

Chekes,  William,  168. 

Cheldesworth,  Eichard,  319. 

Cheles,  Thomas,  204. 

Chellescombe,  Thomas,  41. 

Chellesfeld.    See  Chelsfield. 

Chellyngton.    See  Chillington. 

Chelmerton,   Childerstou,    Chilmerdon,  co. 

Derby,  397,  460,  541,  562. 
Chelmscote,  co.  Buckingham,  521. 
Chelmsford,  co.  Essex,  504,  576,  577. 
Chelsfield,  Chellesfeld,  co.  Kent,  480. 
Chelston,  Chilston,  Chylston,  co.  Devon,  24, 

45. 

Chelsyn  (in  Stevenage),  co.  Hertford,  182. 
Chelton.    See  Chilton. 
Chelveston,  co.  Northampton,  582. 
Chemery,  Eichard,  490. 
Cheney.    See  Cheyne. 
Chepman,  Eichard,  518. 
Chepstede.    See  Chipstead  ;  Chipsted. 
Chepstow,  Chipstowe,   co.  Monmouth,  29, 
112,  163. 

Chepyngnorton.    See  Chipping  Norton. 
Chepyngtoryton.    See  Torrington. 
Cherchar,  Walter,  595. 
Cherdesle.    See  Chearsley. 
Cheriton,  Chiriton  Fitz  Payn,  co.  Devon,  52. 
Chernok.    See  Charnock. 
Cherry  Burton,  co.  York,  10. 
Chertesey,  Edmund,  407,  618. 
Cherubeer,  Churebere  (in  Dolton),  co.  Devon, 
187. 

Cherystiiunton.    See  Church  Staunton. 

Chese,  Henry,  386. 

Chesehull.    See  Chishall. 

Cbesewyke.    See  Chiswick. 

Chesham,  co.  Buckingham,  224. 

  Aston  Sandford,   co.  Buckingham, 

297,  560. 

 Bois,  CO.  Buckingham,  224. 

Cheshunt,  co.  Hertford,  436,  457,  530, 

 ,  prioress  and  nuns  of,  188. 

 ,  Isabel  Forest,  prioress  of,  188. 

 ,  CO.  Lincoln,  242. 

Chesilherst.    See  Chislehurst. 

Cheslyn  Hay,  Chisteleyn  Haye,  co.  Stafford, 

233. 

Chester,  127,  346,  473,  491,  524. 

 ,  mayor  of.    See  Suthworth. 

 ,  port  of,  524. 

 ,  bishop  of.    See  Clinton. 

 J  earl  of.    See  Meschines  ;  Scot. 

 letters  patent  dated  at,  35. 

 .county  of,  153,  219,  283,  361,  365, 

366,  490. 
 ,   ,  sherill  of,  490. 


Chester  herald  of  arms,  261. 
Chester,  Eichard,  347. 
 ,  William,  347. 

Chesterfield,  co.  Derby,  441,  442,  455,  482, 
507. 

Chesterford,  co.  Essex,  532. 

 ,  Great,  142,  498. 

Chesulden.    See  Chisledon. 
Cheswardine,  CO.  Salop,  133,  401,  402,  420, 
489. 

Chetham.    See  Chatham. 
Cheveley,  co.  Cambridge,  380. 
Cheverell  Burnell,  co.  Wilts,  306. 

  Hales,  306. 

 ,  Great,  306. 

Cheverell,  John,  356,  428. 

 ,  Walter,  247,406,  573,  613. 

Cheveryshall.    See  Chivers. 

Chevir,  John,  chief  justice  of  the  King's 

Bench  in  Ireland,  193. 
Chewton,  Chuton,  co.  Somerset,  456. 
Cheyne,  Cheyun,  Cheney,  Alexander,  449. 

 ,  Humphrey,  449. 

 ,  James,  44. 

 ,  John,  55,  101,  193,  196,  200,  220, 

245,  248,  285,  305,  317,  318,  349,  404, 
406,  427,  449,  470,  472,  522,  533,  558, 
573,  585,  608,  609,  635. 

 ,  EHzabeth  his  wife,  449. 

 ,  John,  of  Fallesdon  Cheyne,  408,  428. 

 ,of  Pyune,  306,  311,  350,  406, 

532,  533,  628. 

 Eobert,  197,  449. 

 Eoger,  449,  558. 

 William,  196.  247,  249,  308,  351,393, 

394,  406,  449,  461,  633. 

Cheynesmaner,  co.  Buckingham,  471. 

Chichelee,  Henry,  609. 

Chichester,  Cicestre,  co.  Sussex,  2,  37,  52, 

72,  147,  169,  279,  308,  357. 
 ,  port  of,  15,  216,  268,  453,  469,  521, 

553,  592. 

 diocese  of,  65,  155,  210,  265,  415, 

418,  550. 

 bishop  of.    See  Arundell. 

 ,  cathedral  of,  14,  413. 

 ,   ,  dean  of,  52,  308. 

 ,   ,  dean  and  chapter  of,  359. 

 ,   ,  vicars  of,  35,  111. 

 ,   ,  chantry  of  St.  Mary  in,  308. 

 Mortimer's   chantry  in,  294, 

296,  359,  550. 

 ,  ,  prebend  of  Sutton  in,  551. 

  hospital  of  St.  James  by,  William 

Fordeu,  warden  of,  235. 
Chichester,  Chechestre,  Eichard,  246,  247, 

427,  490. 

Chicksand,  Chikesand,  co.  Bedford,  191. 

 ,  Stephen,  prior  of,  576. 

Cliiddeformc.    See  Childfroinc. 
C'liiddii.gBldDc,  C'li(d_\i)p.'-toi;,  co.  Keuf,  501. 


GENERAL  INDEX. 


073 


Chigwell,  CO.  Essex,  192. 
Child,  Chylde,  JoliD,  3.')G. 

 ,  Peter,  251,  401,  4.'j8. 

 ,  Philip,  156,  251. 

Childerhous,  Edmund,  G4. 
Childerstoii.    See  Chelmeitoii. 
Cliildfrome,  Chiddeforme,  co.  Dorset,  457, 
527. 

Chillesford,  Chisilford,  co.  Suffolk,  110. 
Chillesworth,  John,  319. 
Chillington,  Chellyngton,  co.  Somerset,  533. 
Chillington,  Chilyn^ton,  co.  Stafford,  145. 
Chilmerdon.    See  Chelmerton. 
Chilston.    See  Chelston. 
Chiltein  Laiigley,  co.  Hertford,  130,  151,  1C3, 
348. 

Chilton,  Chylton,  co.  Somerset,  9C,  151. 

 ,  Chelton,  co.  Suffolk,  581. 

  Condover,  co.  Soutliampton,  534. 

  Canteloe,    Chylton    Cantelope,  co. 

SomePBet,  305,  347. 
Chingford,  Chyiigford,  co.  Essex,  38,  480. 
Chippenham,  co.  Wilts,  466. 

 luuidred  of,  4G6. 

Chipping    Norton,    Chepyng    Norton,  co. 

Oxford,  151,  297,  323,  345,  432,  560. 
Chipping  Wycombe,  Chepyngwycombe,  co. 

Buckingham,  382,  435. 
Chip^tead,  Chepstede,  co.  Surrey,  519,  543. 
Chipsted,  Chepsted,  co.  Kent,  164,  501. 
Cliipstowe.    See  Chepstow. 
Chirch,  Robert,  432. 

Chirchefordhall  in  Cupel,  co.  Suffolk,  515. 
Chirchcliill  in  Whitstable,  co.  Kent,  274. 
Chirchestaunton.    .SVe  Church  Staunton. 
Chircheyerd,  Thomas,  94. 

 ,   ,  Alice  his  wife,  94. 

Chiritou.    See  Cheriton. 
Chirk  [co.  Denbigh],  505,  557. 
Chirkeland,  505,  557. 

Chishall,  Chesehull,  Great,  co.  Essex,  203. 
Chisilford.    See  Chillesford. 
Chisledon,  Chesuldon,  co.  Wilts,  255. 
Chislehurst,  Chcsilherst,  co.  Kent,  578. 
Chislet,  Chistlet,  Chystlctte,  co.  Kent,  143, 
436. 

Chisteleyu  Haye.    See  Cheslyn  Hay. 
Chiswick,  Chesewyke,  co.  Middlesex,  155. 

 prebend  of,  176. 

Chivers,  Cheveryshall  (in  Ongar),  co.  Essex, 
515. 

Choke,  Chokke,  Richard,  55,  70,  92,  101- 
103,  127-129,  140,  168,  170,  171,  221, 
247-249,  251,  289,  317,  353,  366,  374, 
377,  403,  405,  406,  108,  473,  .V25,  573, 
574,  S93,  608,  610,  612-614,  616,  625- 
629,  630,  635,  636. 

 ,    justice  of  the  Bench,  227, 

229,  258,  294,  344,  403. 

Cholderton,  Chaldrington,  to.  Wilts,  359. 

Chols,  Robert,  223. 
J  96186, 


Chowne,  John,  301. 

Christchurch,  Cristchircho,  co.  Southampton, 

208,  209,  574. 
Chuluileigh,    Chilmelav,    Chylmelegb,  co, 

Devon,  24,  25,  27,  128,  511. 
Church,  John,  101. 
Church  Pulverbatch,  co.  Salop,  365. 

t    Staunton,  Chorystaunton,  co.  Devon, 

I  12. 

i  Churcheyerd,  Walter,  595. 

Churebere.    Sec  Cherubeer. 
'  Chuton.    See  Cbewton. 
I  Chuvve,  Thomas,  parson  of  Cliilton  Cantelow, 
347. 

'  Chylde.    See  Child. 

Cliylmelegh.    See  Chulmleigh, 

Chylston.    See  Chelston. 

Chylton.    See  Chilton. 

Chyngford.    See  Chingford. 

ChypstOD,  John,  573. 
!  Chyrehcward,  Hugh,  577. 

Chyiitleltc.    .SVe  Chiilet. 

Chywarton  in  Perran  Uthnoe,  co.  Cornwall, 
324. 

Chywarton,  William,  324. 

Cicestre.    See  Chichester ;  Cirencester. 

Cinque  I'orts,  110,  250,  288,  302,  303,  573. 

 ,  warden  of,  206. 

  And  see  FitzAlan. 

 lieutenant  of.     See  Eitz.Vlan  ; 

Scott. 
Cirche,  Edward,  599. 

Cirencester,  Cicestre,   co."  Gloucester,  222, 
235,  271,  361,  577. 

 ,  letters  patent  dated  at,  200. 

 ,  John,  abbot  of,  386,  615. 

Cistercian  order,  171,  376,  403,  404,  521. 

 ,  chapter  general  of,  171,  403,  404. 

 reformer  of,  404. 

Claie,  Walter,  394. 

Clampard,  Thomas,  335. 

Clandauer,  Henry,  93. 

Claufield,  Clanefeld,  co.  Oxford,  9. 

Clapham,  Clopham,  co.  .Surrey,  308. 

Claphani,  Clapam,  Clapeham,  Richard,  49,  80, 
218,  331. 

 ,  Thomas,  572. 

 ,  William,  49,  331. 

Clare,  co.  SufTolk,  89,  257,  432. 

I   ,  portion  of,  in  the  church  of  Tiverton, 

I  292. 
I   Clare,  John,  218. 
t  Clarell,  Richard,  209. 
1   ,  Thomas,  7,  73. 

'   ,  vicar  of  Leeds  by  Rothncll, 

209. 

Clarence,  Thomas,  287. 

Clarendon,  Claringdou,  co.  Wilts,  243,  310, 
348. 

Claud,  William,  381. 
Claveleshay,  Richard,  84,  86. 

U  U 


674 


GENERAL  INDEX. 


ClaveDfifer,  Robert,  61. 

Claveriug,  eo.  Essex,  345,  457,  487,  529. 

Claxton,  Robert,  219. 

  ,  William,  317,  4C4. 

Clay,  John,  knight,  227,  253. 

 ,   ,  Joan,  his  wife,  227,  253. 

 ,  John,  the  younger,  327,  253. 

Claybrok.  Richard,  377. 
Claybroke,  William,  34,  4S,  92. 
Claydon,  co.  Buckinghatn,  145. 
Claygate,  Cleygate,  co.  Surrey,  548. 
Claymond,  Thomas,  20,  419. 
Clayoure,  co.  Oxford,  431. 
Clayton,  co.  Devon,  280,  457,  529. 

 Cleyton,  co.  Lancaster,  575. 

 ,  CO.  Sussex,  192. 

 ,  CO.  York,  46. 

Clayton,  Thomas,  3. 

 ,  William,  3,  84.  326. 

 ,  ,  parson  of  Stanhope,  295. 

 ,  ,  prebendary  of  Lincoln,  295. 

Cleeve,  Clive,  co.  Somerset,  abbot  and  monks 

of,  112. 
Clefton.    See  Clifton. 

Clehonger,  Clehungre,  co.  Hereford,  20,  425, 

450,  463,  505. 
Clemens,  Thomas,  53,  54,  57,  65,  102,  169, 

218,  246,  550,  573.  610. 

 ,  ,  the  elder,  220. 

Clement,  John,  101,  128,  574. 

 ,  William,  128,  467. 

Clements,  William,  328. 

Clemowe,  William,  104. 

Clent,  CO.  Stafford,  470. 

Clere,  Edmund,  250,  499. 

 ,   ,  escheator    in  Norfolk  and 

Suffolk,  191. 
Cleres,  co.  Sussex,  forest  of,  192. 
Clerionet,  William,  215. 

 ,  ,  Katharine  his  wife,  215. 

Clerk,  Edith,  321. 
 ,  Joan,  164. 

 ,  John,  2,  5,  70,  71,  76,  83,  148,  225, 

253,  352,  358,  407,  473,  500,  514,  573, 
618,  626. 

 ,  ,  second  baron  of  the  Exchequer, 

38,  51,  222,  258,  445. 
 ,   ,  one  of  the  barons  of  the 

Exchequer,  366,  375. 
 ,  ,  parson  (jf  St.  Mary  Moises  in 

Frydaystrete,  London,  109. 

 ,  ,  the  younger,  164. 

 Richard,  269,  282,  286,  403,  407,  612. 

 Robert,  78,  215,  251,  484. 

 ,  Thomas,  2,  5,  253,  318. 

 ,  Walter,  164. 

 William,  251,  407. 

Clerkenwell,  Agnes,  prioress  of,  395. 
Clerkson,  John,  515. 
Cleve,  William,  472. 


Cleveley,  Nicholas,  45. 
Clewer,  Cleware,  co.  Berks.,  568. 
Cle3'  by  the  Sea,  co.  Norfolk,  434. 
Cley,  George,  503. 
 ,  William,  3. 

Cle3'e,  Hugh,  vicar  of  Chipping  Wycombe, 
230. 

Cleygate.    See  Claygate. 

Cleyton.    See  Clayton. 

Cliderhowe,  Hugh,  76. 

Clidro,  John,  parson  of  Llanaber,  304. 

Cliff,  John,  153. 

 William,  153. 

Clifife,  CO.  Northampton,  599. 

Clifford,  Clyfford,  Alexander,  199,  284,  389. 

 ,  Henry,  327. 

 ,  James,  224. 

 ,  John,  333. 

 ,   lord,  20,  40,  93,  327,  420,  424, 

470,  479,  549. 

 ,  Roger,  355. 

 ,  Thomas,  lord,  40. 

 .William,  53,  219,  567. 

 ,    escheator    in    Kent  and 

Middlesex,  333. 
Clifton,  CO.  Devon,  60. 

 ,  CO.  Gloucester,  327,  373. 

 ,  CO.  Nottingham,  180,  600. 

Clifton,  Clefton,  Clyf ton,  Gervase,  161,  180, 

252,  407,  462,  479,  600,  621,  625. 

 ,  ,  treasurer  of  Calais,  161. 

 ,  the  younger,  199. 

 ,  Henry,  523. 

 John,  598. 

 Robert,  10,  86,  231,  350,  407,  477, 

577,  600,  625. 

 ,   ,  Alice,  his  wife,  600. 

Clinton,  Roger  de,  bishop  of  Chester  [1129- 

1148],  425. 
Clipsham,  Clipisham,  co.  Rutland,  280,  360. 
Clipstone,  Clypstone,  co.  Nottingham,  130, 

310,  488. 

Clitheroe,  Clyderowc,  co,  Lancaster,  223. 

Clive.    See  CleeTe. 

Cliveton,  Richard,  426. 

Clodj',  John,  60. 

Clogh,  John,  470. 

Clogyn,  CO.  Caermarthen,  60. 

Clopham.    See  Clapham. 

Clopton,  CO.  Suffolk,  18,  484. 

Clopton,  John,  246,  248,  490,  631. 

Close,  Cloos,  John,  418. 

 Stephen,  363,  413. 

 ,   warden  of   the   hospital  of 

Ospringe,  418. 

 ,   ,  prebendary  of  Lincoln,  295. 

 ,  parson  of  Stanhope,  295. 

Clotte,  Bartholomew,  249. 
Cloughston,  Patrick,  13. 
Clowecrosse  [co.  Cambridge],  170, 


GENERAL  INDEX. 


675 


Cloyton.    See  Colylou. 
Cludde,  William,  376. 

Clugniaco,     Feriicus    de,    archdeacon  of 

Faverney,  83. 
Cluniac  order,  14,  15,  65,  274,  358,  387,  388, 

390,  402,  415,  418. 
CluDy,  abbey  of,  42,  585. 
 ,  abbot  of,  418. 

 ,  Sir  John  de  Bniirl).inio,  abbot  of,  415. 

Clyderowe.    Sco  Clitlierue. 
a  Clyf,  Peter,  357. 
ClyfF,  John,  12,  60,  256. 

 Matthew,  8. 

  William,  108. 

Clyfford.    See  Clifford, 
Clyfton.    See  Clifton. 

Clynton,  Jolio,  lord  of  Clynton  and  Say,  270, 
290. 

Clypstone.    See  Clipstone. 
Clystsomson,  co.  Devon,  00. 
Clyve,  William,  235. 
ClyvecoDibe,  co.  Dorset,  457,  529. 
Clyvele,  Nicholas,  84. 
Cobbe,  John,  70,  71,  154,  407. 

 ,  Marjory,  154,  547. 

Cobbell,  Eichard,  256, 

Cobbelyngton,  Henry  de,  parson  of  liattlesden, 
56. 

Cobbes,  John,  300. 
Cobcote,  Thomas,  573. 
Cobham,  John,  of  Cobham,  283. 

  Thomas,  5,  118,  246,  248,  298,  352, 

535,  618.  632. 

 ,   Anne  his  wife,  118,  535. 

 ,  ,   his  daughter,  298,  535. 

Cobhambury,  co,  Kent,  589. 
Cobinton.    See  Cubbington. 
Coblyngton.    See  Cublington. 
Coliolle,  Robert,  201. 

Cockerington,  Cokeryngton  [co.  Lincoln], 
294,  508. 

Cockermouth,  Cokermouth,  co.  Cumberland, 
312. 

Cockes,  Thomas,  577. 

Cockfield,  Cokefeld,  co.  SuflFolk,  36,  89,  297, 
484,  538. 

Cockington,  Cokyngton,  co.  Devon,  24,  46. 
(^odbury,  Thomas,  286,  287. 
Codde,  John,  325. 
Coddesheth.    See  Codsheath. 
Coddington,  Codyngton,  Todyngton,  co.  Here- 
ford, Great,  225. 
Code,  John,  78,  189. 

  ..,  Walter,  189. 

Codecombe.    See  Cutcombe. 
Coder,  William,  118. 
Codford,  CO.  Wilts,  434, 

 ,  St.  Peter,  443. 

Codgrave.    See  Cotgrave. 
Codryngton,  Humphr«y,  427. 


Codsheath,  Coddeshetii,  CO.  Kent,  hundred  of, 
300. 

Coetelem,  Nicholas,  198. 

Coffiham,  Richard,  352. 

ColTyn,  William,  29,  427,  552. 

CoggjsluiU,  Coksale,  co.  Essex,  76.  144,  318, 

Coinage,  98,  112,  138,  139,  149,  150,  185,  227, 

.•il3-315,  392,  4G8,  511,  586. 
 falsification,  Kc,  of,  53,  54,  57,  58, 

117,  168,  511,  606. 
Coltcsmore.    See  Coytesmore.  ] 
Coke,  Cok,  Cokke,  Christopher,  351,  407, 

427,  612. 

 ,  Edward,  592, 

 Henry,  128. 

 ,  Hugh,  190,  382. 

 .Tohn,  142,  201,  220,  240,  500,  501, 

629. 

 ,  ,  mayor  of  Cambridge,  C09. 

 Master  John,  second  in  the  office  of 

the  privy  seal,  554,  569,  596. 

 ,  Laurence,  581. 

 ,  Joan  his  wife,  581, 

 ,  Philip,  347, 

 ,  Ralph,  510. 

 Richard,  109,  321,  435. 

 ,  Robert,  276,  317. 

 ,  ,  mayor  of  Sandwich,  318. 

 ,   ,  parson  of  Oye,  42. 

 Thomas,  101,  143,  187,317-319,347, 

354,  397,  488,  495,  504,  013. 

 Walter,  57,  128. 

  William,  439. 

  And  fee  Cooke. 

Cokebury.    See  Cookbury, 
Cokefeld.    See  Cockfield, 
Cokefeld,  Isabel,  322. 
Cokeham.    See  Cookham. 
Coken.    See  Cokeyn. 
Coker,  West,  co.  Somerset,  187. 

 hundred  of,  187. 

Cokerell,  Walter,  486. 

Cokermouth.    See  Cockermouth. 

Cokes,  in  Hartest,  co.  Suffolk,  556. 

Coket,  Coket  seal.  15,  91,  103,  167,  175,  216, 

357,  438,  469,  484. 
Cokeyn,  Coken,  Cokyn,  John,  285,  504,  570, 

607. 

Cokkowe,  William,  42. 
Cokkys,  John,  437. 

 ,  Thomas,  390. 

  William,  144,  499. 

Cokrell,  Richard,  583,  587. 
Coksale.    See  Coggeshall. 
Cokson,  John,  277, 
Cokyn.    See  Cokeyn. 
Cokyngton.    See  Cockington. 
Colan,  Ralph,  386, 

  And  see  CoUan, 

Colard,  John,  79. 

U  U  2 


676 


GENERAL  INDEX. 


Colas,  Henry,  505. 
Colborne,  Christian,  547. 
Colbronf],  Thomas,  241. 
Colby,  CO.  Norfolk,  191. 

Colchester,  co.  Essex,  131,  147,  291,  318,  321, 
343,  401,  51C,  540,  594,  COS. 

 ,  St.  John's  abbey,  107. 

 ,  ,  convent  of,  108. 

 ,  ,  John  Canone,  abbot  of,  108. 

 ,  ,  Walter  Stanstod,  abbot  of,  107. 

 ,  Friars  Minor  of,  162. 

 ,   ,  Eobert  Wotton,  guardiau  of, 

162. 

 hospital  of  Crossechirch  at,  89. 

 ,  John  Wilton,  prior  of,  89. 

 ,   ,  William  K-\  Iwilnierssh,  prior 

of,  89. 

Colchestre,  William,  524. 

Colcombe,  Colecombe,  C'ollycombe,  co.  Devon, 

23,  176,  181,  189,  280,  427,  529. 
  by  Minchinhampton,  co.  Gloucester, 

448,  45.'?,  454. 
Coldale,  Coldell,  John,  16,  280,  341,  596. 
Coldanger.    See  Goldhanger. 
Coldcote,  Robert,  507. 
Coldkenyngton.    See  Kempton. 
Cole,  John,  71,  240,  359,  269,  288,  340,  354, 

355,  496. 

 ,  Robert,  381. 

 .William,  61. 

 ,   ,     parson    of    St.  Martin's, 

Chichester,  52. 

 ,  chaplain  of  the  chantry  at  the 

altar  of  St.  Mary  in  Chichester  Ca- 
thedral, 308. 

 ,  parson  of  St.  Peter  by  Gyldyn- 

hall,  Chichester,  308. 

Colebrook,  Colbroke,  co.  Devon,  224. 

Colepeper,  Colpepyr,  Culpepyr,  John,  127, 195, 
199,  219,  284,  285,  352,  357,  407,  618. 

 ,  Richard,  164,  195,  199,  219,  352. 

 ,  ,  sherifi  of  Kent,  34G. 

Coles,  Nicholas,  494. 

Coleshill,  Colshill,  co.  Warwick,  50,  331,  604. 
Colet,  Colett,  Alan,  76,  433. 

 ,  Henry,  509. 

 ,  William,  502,  570,  607. 

Coleton,  CO.  Cornwall,  58. 
Colett.    See  Colet. 
Colgyll,  John,  218. 
Coli,  in  Ireland,  165. 
Coliford.    See  Colyford. 
Collan,  John,  199,  406,  617. 

  And  see  Colan. 

Colle,  John,  317-319,  353. 
Colles,  John,  578,  589. 

 ,  Richard,  578,  589. 

CoUesby.    See  Cowesby. 
Collewell  [co.  Nottingham],  130. 
Colley,  Thomas,  74. 


Collingbourne,   Colyngbom-n    Abbots,  co. 

Wilts,  177. 

 ,  Coh  ngbourn  Kyngeston,  177. 

 ,  Colyngbourn  Southampton,  177. 

 Colynbourn  Valaunce,  177. 

Collumpton,  Colunton,  co.  Devon,  282,  404. 
Collys,  Thomas,  427. 
Colman,  Henry,  473. 

 ,  John,  147. 

 ,  Peter,  113. 

 ,  Thomas,  254. 

Coin,  Culne  St.  Denis,  co.  Gloucester,  6G. 
Colne,  CO.  Essex,  297,  521. 

 ,  Earl's,  318,  543,  547,  563,  5G7. 

  And  see  Coulonge. 

Cologne,  340. 

 ,  bishopric  of,  52. 

  merchants  of,  237,  272,  307,  387, 

445,  452. 
Colome,  William,  213. 
Colpepyr.    See  Colepeper. 
Colquite,  Culquite,  co.  Cornwall,  345. 
Colshill.    See  Coleshill. 
Colshull,  Colshill.  John,  58,  102,  186,  220, 

279,  351,  398,  399,  610. 

 ,   ,  sheriff  of  Cornwall,  57. 

 ,  ,  Elizabeth  his  wife,  186. 

  ,  William,  163. 

Colsond  Darcy.    See  Tolleshunt  D'Arcy. 
Colsone,  Dan  William,  abbot  of  Whitby,  550, 

554. 

Colston  Basset,  co.  Nottingham,  297. 
Colt,  Colte,  John,  2,  290,  381,  504,  568. 

 ,  Thomas,  24,  42,  192,  261,  504,  568, 

613. 

 ,  ,  Joan  his  wife,  568. 

 ,  Thomas,   keeper  of  the   rolls  of 

Chancery  in  Ireland,  34. 
Colthorpe.    See  Cowthorpe. 
Columbjohn,  Culme  John,  co.  Devon,  156, 

174,  189,  280,  457,  529. 
Columpton.    See  Collumpton. 
Colunton.    See  Collumpton. 
Colvile,  Colwyll,  John,  169,  581,  593. 
  parson  of  W^inchelsea,  210, 

265. 

 William,  637. 

Colvilles,  Colvyles,  co.  Cambridge,  480. 
Colwall,  CO.  Hereford,  101,  102. 
Colwj'che,  Robert,  144. 

 ,  ,  sheriff  of  London,  546,  547, 

586. 

 ,   sheriff  of  Middlesex,  551,  556. 

Colwyll.    See  Colvile. 
Colworth,  CO.  Sussex,  116. 
Colyer,  Reginald,  prior  of  St.  Bartholomew, 
West  Smithfield,  London,  260. 

 Thomas,  500. 

Colyn,  John,  367. 

Colyford,  Coliford,  CO.  Devon,  23,  171,  176, 
189,  280,  343,  457,  529. 


GENERAL  INDEX. 


67 


Colynbourn.    See  Collingbouine. 
Colynpbourne,  William,  324,  406,  432,  501 

573,  635. 

 ,  ,  sheriff  of  Wilts,  514. 

 ,  ,  Margaret  bis  wife,  433. 

Colyngrigge,  John,  406,  4G2,  608. 
Colyns,  John,  31,  142,  406,  558. 

 ,  ,  the  elder,  282. 

 Richard,  250. 

 ,  Robert,  324. 

 ,  William,  4,  215,  253. 

~    Joan  his  wife,  215. 

Colyton,  Coletou,  Cloy  ton,  co.  Devon,  23,  176, 

181,  189,  2H0,  457,  529. 
Combe,  Come,  co.  Oxford,  17. 
 ,  Clyvecombe,  Wydecombe,  co.  Dorset, 

457. 

 ,00.  Warwick,  abbot  and  convent  of, 

478. 

 Alexander  Whitley,  abbot  of,  478. 

 ,  William  de  Bretford,  abbot  of,  478. 

 ,  Martin,  abbot  of,  478.  | 

 Bisset,  CO.  Wilts,  32,  33,  533. 

 ,  Long,  CO.  Oxford,  352,  519,  576. 

 Martin,  co.  Devon,  32,  137. 

Combe,  Richard,  93,  432. 

 Simon,  93,  183. 

 Thomas,  489,  490. 

 ,  William,  201,  208. 

Comber,  John,  447. 
Comberton,  co.  Cambridge,  1 58. 
Combes,  co.  Suffolk,  98. 
Combes,  Thomas,  288,  573. 
Come.    Sec  Combe. 

Comelande,  Dame  Alice,  abbess  of  Wilton, 

231,  233,  296. 
Commissions  of  the  peace.    See  Appendix. 
  de  wullits  el  fossatis,  28,  101,  169, 

170,  251,  252,  288,  354,  427,  428,  462, 

463. 

Compagni,  Victor,  59. 

Comptou,  CO.  Gloucester,  67. 

 CO.  Sussex,  63,  461. 

  Mordok,  co.  Warwick,  430. 

  I'auiiccfote,  co.  Somerset,  296. 

  Basset,  CO.  Wilts,  534. 

  Chamberlain,  co.  Wilts,  533,  534. 

 ,  Long,  CO.  Wilts,  533. 

Comptou,  John,  133. 

 ,  Thomas,  4. 

Conderowe,  Thomas,  308. 

Congerton,  Coiigrotoii,  William,  336. 

Coningsby,  Connesby,  Conyngcsby,  co.  Lin- 
coln, 81,  261,  286,  297. 

Conisborough,  Connysburgh  [co.  York],  310, 
361. 

Couishead,    Conyngshed    [co.  Lancaster], 

William,  prior  of,  456. 
Conisholme,  Conyngcsholme,    co.  Lincoln, 

608. 

Conistou,  Cold,  Coldconyngstouc,  id",  487. 


Connesby.    See  Coningsby. 
Connysburgh.    See  Conisborough. 
Constable,  Cunstable,  Agnes,  385. 

 ,  John,  102,  199,  349,  437,  463,  493 

636. 

 ,  aiarmaduke,  352,  621. 

 ,  Robert,  199,  251,  349,  354,  385,  407 

409,  418,  464,  572,  621,  636. 

 ,  ,  sheriff  of  Lincoln,  381. 

 ,   ,  sheriff  of  York,  381. 

Constanciis,  AYalter  de,  13. 

Constantinople,  291. 

Coutrync,  .Teromc,  537. 

Convcrs,  John,  237,  273,  33". 

Conway,  Cunwcy,  co.  Carnarvon,  113,  524. 

 port  of,  524. 

Conway,  Thomas,  31. 
Cony,  John,  91. 

 ,  Walter,  500. 

Conyerc,  John,  575,  570. 
Conyers,  Christopher,  200. 
 ,  Henry,  215. 

 ,  John,  215,  349,  353,  408,  532,  637. 

 ,  ,  sheriff  of  York,  185,  551. 

 ,  ,  the  elder,  218. 

 ,  the  j'ounger,  218. 

 Robert,  112. 

 ,  Thomas,  112.  637. 

Conynesburgh,  Edmund,  415. 
Conyngshed.    .Sec  Couishead. 
Conyugton,  John,  68. 
Conyston,  Richard,  523. 
Coo,  Reter,  318. 

Cook,  Caoke,  Christopher,  176,  612. 

 ,  Edmund,  82. 

 ,  Helen,  420. 

 ,  John,  98,  104,  201',  405,  420,  429 

434,  542. 

 ,   ,  Marjory  his  wife,  420. 

 ,  I'hilip,  347. 

 ,  Richard,  2.i0. 

 Robert,  409. 

 ,  Thomas,  6,  98,  347. 

 ,  William,  252,  288,  435,  439. 

  And  see  Coke. 

Cookbury,  Cokcbury,  co.  Devon,  36. 
Cooke.    <Sce  Cook. 

Cookham,  Cokeham,  co.  Berks,  232,  234,  238. 

 ,  hundred  of,  232. 

Coope,  Robert,  609. 

Coorte,  Robert,  602. 

Coosb)'.    See  Cowesby. 

Coote,  Cote,  William,  28,  252,  261,  289,  363, 

620,  621. 
Copcott,  Richard,  462,  474,  492. 
Cope,  Robert,  609. 
Cop<;liill.    See  Cople. 
Copk',  Copohill,  CO.  Bedford,  101. 
Copleston,  I'hilip,  2U),  220,  405,  612. 
 ,  Ralph,  465. 


GENERAL  INDEX. 


Copleston,  Thomas,  prebendary  of  Cutton,212. 

 ,  ,  parson  of  Drewsteignton,  213. 

 ,  William,  193,  194. 

Copley,  Henry,  146. 

 ,  William,  316,  463,  638. 

Coppe,  Julian,  336. 
Copsam,  CO.  Devon,  60. 
Copuldyke,  John,  285. 

Copyndale,  Adam,  vicar-general  of  the  bishop 
of  Salisbury,  16. 

 John,  427. 

 ,  Stephen,  .S54,  407,637. 

Corbet,  Halph,  251. 

 Richard,  96,  284,  407,  429,  444,  520, 

627. 

 ,  Koger,  95,  249,  444. 

 ,  of  Moreton,  113. 

 ,  Elizabeth  his  -wife,  113. 

 ,  Thomas,  407,  628. 

 ,  of  Legh,  627. 

 ,  William,  171. 

Corbrond,  John,  10. 
Corbryk,  John,  141. 

Corby,  Corkby,  co.  Cumberland,  214,  277. 
 ,  Crokhy,  Little    [co.  Cumberland], 

215,  277. 
Corby,  Robert,  182. 
Corewen,  Thomas,  211. 
Corfe  Castle,  co.  Dorset,  42. 
Corfham,  Corsam,  co.  Salop,  411. 
Coriasrubias,  Didicus  de,  307. 
Coriser,  Robert,  39. 
Cork,  in  Ireland,  468,  592. 
Corkby.    See  Corby. 
Corke,  John,  58. 

  Roger,  83. 

Cornburgh.    See  Coriiobiirgb. 

Cornburv,   Corneburgh,   co.   (J.xford,  364, 

510. 

 ,  forest  of,  53,  565. 

Corneburgh,  Cornburgh,  Alured,  57,  102, 
128,  197,  200,  220,  284,  351,  362,  421, 
49!),  492-495,  525,  610,  614. 

Cornemonger,  John,  147. 

Cornewaile,  Cornwales,  Cornwalshe,  Ed- 
nmnd,  425. 

,  ,  Elizabeth  his  wife,  425. 

 ,  John,  443. 

 ,  chief  baron  of  the  Exchequer  in 

Ireland,  193. 
 ,  Robert,  12,  326. 

  Thomas,  14,  18,  45,  152,  335,  344, 

345,  360,  407,  615,  616. 
Cornewales  Maner  in  Iver,  co.  Buckingham, 

45. 

Cornewe,  William,  462. 

,   And  see  Cornu. 

Corney  [co.  Cumberland],  515. 
Conihull,  R.  de,  561. 

Coruilo,  Cornyloo,  go.  Kent,  hundred  of. 
300, 


Coruu,  William,  632. 

  And  see  Covnevre. 

Cornwall,  county  of,  22,  25,  36,  54,  56,  57, 

88,  100-102,  116,  169,  175,  195,  197, 

218-220,  246,  284,  329,  347,  351,  354, 

389,  400,  421,  427,  444,  462,  490-492, 

495,  496,  525. 
 ,  sheriff  of,  29,  53,  54,  56,  57, 

101,  102,  157,  169,  219,  220,  284,  351, 

354,  490-492,  552. 
 ,   And  see  Colshull ;  Sturgeon  ; 

Fortescu. 

 ,  ,  escheator  in,  15,  233,  296. 

  And   see  Gill  ;   Eggecombe  ; 

Carewe  ;  Courtenay  ;  Penpons  ;  Hal- 
well. 

 ,   ,  coroners  in,  443. 

 ,   ,  outlawries  in,  51,  77,  119,  141, 

142,  145,  324,  327,  380,  386,  434,  575, 

579,  581,  588,  603. 

 ,  ,  tin  and  lead  in,  36. 

 ,   ,  mines  in,  420. 

 ,   ,  subsidy  and  ulnage  of  cloth  in, 

329,  347,  478. 
 ,  ,  commissions  of  the  peace  in, 

609. 

 ,  duchy  of,  65,  83,  157,  173,  180,  197, 

283,  365,  366. 

 ,  ,  receiver-general  of,  37,  157. 

 ,    A?id  see  Hastj'nges. 

 ,  ,  steward  of.    See  Stafford. 

 ,  duke  of,  173. 

Cornwalshe.    Sec  Cornewaile. 

Cornwell.    See  Cornewaile. 

Cornwood,  Cornewode,  co.  Devon,  24,  25. 

Coruworthy,  Corneworthi,   co.  Devon,  327, 

373I 

 ,  nunnery  of,  373. 

Cornyssh,  John,  the  elder,  324. 

 ,   ,  the  younger,  324. 

 ,  Richard,  324. 

 ,  Thomas,  171,  514. 

 ,  AVilliam,  224. 

Corringham,  Coryngham,  co.  Lincoln,  179. 

Corsam.    See  Corfham. 

Corsthuayat.    See  Crosthwaite. 

Corston.    See  Coston. 

Cortenale,  Cortenhale,  William,  167,  174. 

Cortlyugstok.    See  Costock. 

Coruu,  William,  169. 

Corveser,  Richard,  197. 

Coryngdon,  Master    John,   prebendary  of 

Windsor,  396. 
Coryngliam,  John,  145. 
Ccryngton,  Joan,  390,  444. 
Corymalet.    Sec  Curry  Malct. 
Coryrevell.    See  Curry  Rivel. 
Cosgrove,  co.  Northampton,  79. 
Cosham,  co.  Wilts,  232,  238,  241. 
Cossington,   Cosyngton,   co.   Leicc.-iter,  2G, 

517. 

Costock,  Cortlyngslok,  co.  Nottingham,  297. 


GENERAL  INDEX. 


679 


Coston,  Corston,  co.  Norfolk,  5C2. 
Cosyu,  Kobert,  288,  340,  356. 

 ,  William,  435. 

  And  see  Cousyn. 

Cosyngton,  Kichard,  502. 
Cote.    See  Coote, 
Coteler,  John,  77. 

 ,  ,  the  elder,  141. 

 ,  ,  the  younger,  141. 

Coterell,  Thomas,  198. 

 ,  William,  88. 

Coteriche.    See  Cotheridge. 

Cotes.    See  Coton. 

Cotes,  Humphrey,  the  elder,  444. 

 Johu,  581. 

 ,  Robert,  144. 

Cotford,  .John,  72. 

Cotgrave,  Codgrave,  co.  Nottingham,  600. 
Cothelstone,  Cothuleston,  co.  Somerset,  194, 
522. 

Cotheridge,  Coteriche,  co.  Worcester,  27. 
Cothcrstok.    See  Cotterstock. 
Cotman,  John,  553. 
Coton,  Cotes,  co.  Cambridge,  589. 
Coton,  John,  118. 

 ,  Roger,  esnheator  iu  the  county  of 

York,  585. 
Cotteford,  William,  81. 
Cotterstock,  Cotherstok,  co.  Northampton, 

provost  and  chaplains  of,  119. 

 Walter  Oudeby,  provost  of,  119. 

Cottesbroke,  William,  9. 
Cotteswold,  John,  286. 

Cottingham,  Cotynghara,  co.  York,  207,  369, 

428,  507. 
Cotton,  Cottuu,  John,  448. 

 ,  Thomas,  245,  248,  275,  609. 

Cotyn,  John,  119. 

Cotyngham.    See  Cottingham. 

Cotyngham,  Edmund,  10. 

Couburgh,  Kichard,  141. 

Couche,  Richard,  318. 

Coughton,  CO.  Warwick,  20. 

Coulonge,  Colne  by  Calais,  83,  551,  567. 

Councell,  Henry,  216. 

Couiites,  Edmund,  516. 

Couper,  Coupere,  Bartholomew,  76,  142. 

 ,  Henry,  224. 

 ,  John,  181,  393,  407,  544,  617. 

 ,  Roger,  224,  254,  434. 

 ,  Thomas,  130. 

 ,  Walter,  499. 

Coupuldyk,  John,  the  elder,  570. 

 ,  ,  the  younger,  570. 

Coupyr.    See  Cupar. 
Court,  Henry,  183,  246,  629. 

 ,  John,  7. 

 ,  I'etor  de  la,  188. 

a  Court,  Humphrey  Simon,  300, 
Courteniiy,  Edward,  311,  403,  491,  573, 


Courteuay,  Edward,  carl  of  Devon,  127. 

 ,  Henry,  155,  156,  187. 

 ,  Hugh,  197,  217,  218,  246,  249-251, 

374,  610,  612. 

 ,  ,  carl  of  Devon,  127. 

 ,  Humphrey,  217,  218,  403,  404. 

 ,  Joan,  174. 

 ,  John,  128,  271,  291,  330. 

 ,  ,  earl  of  Devon,  410,  612. 

 ,  Peter,  217,  218,  263,  403,  429. 

 ,   ,  secretary  of  Henry  VI.,  229. 

 ,   secretary  of  Edward  IV.  330, 

332,  439. 

 ,  ,  master    of    the    hospital  of 

St.  Antony,  London,  228. 

 ,  ,  dean  of  St.  Stephen's,  West- 
minster, 332,  414. 

 ,  ,  dean  of  St.  George's,  Windsor, 

596. 

 Philip,  127,  12S,  171,  217,  218,  246, 

247,  284,  291,  330,  351,  403,  408,  429, 
612. 

 Thomas,  fifth  earl  of  Devon,  C5,  127, 

128,  156. 

 ,  sixth  earl,  24,  27,  31,  38,  51, 

65,  116,  128,  150,  174,  176,  179,  181, 
187,  280,  330,  480,  595. 

 Walter,  217,  281. 

 ,  ,  escheator  of  Devon  and  Corn 

wall,  440. 

 ,  William,  knight,  127,  128,  171,  198, 

217,  218,  246,  251,  284,  28S,  330,  351, 
403,  408,  429,  552,  612,  62^. 

 ,  ,  esquire,  218. 

Courteys,  Master  John,  curate  of  Cattistock, 
234. 

 ,  ,  parson  of  High  Ongar,  234. 

 ,  Peter,  470,  475. 

  And  see  Curteys. 

Courtmyll,  Henry,  289. 

 ,  John,  the  younger,  289. 

Cousyn,  Cousin,  Kichard,  318. 

 ,  Robert,  389,  405. 

 ,  ,  keeper  of  the  great  wardrobc> 

337,  338. 
Coutauces,  diocese  of,  360. 

 ,  N.,  bishop  of,  360. 

Couwore.    See  Coworth. 
Cove,  North,  co.  SufEolk,  91,  537. 
Coveley.    See  Cowley. 
Covelcy,  John,  443. 

 Nicholas,  4  13. 

 ,  ,  Matilda  his  wife,  443. 

 ,  Thomas,  443. 

 ,  ,  Alice  his  wife,  443. 

 ,  William,  443. 

 ,  ,  Margaret  his  witV,  443. 

Covcnt.re,  John,  498. 

 ,  William,  ,50,  578,  589. 

Coventry,  20,  30,  143.  15(1.  167,  174,  316. 

348,  457,  462,  477,  4t<l,  492,  496,  5l>.J, 

529,  581. 


680 


GENERAL  INDEX. 


Coventiy,  major  and  commonalty  of,  481. 
 ,  mint  at,  149. 

 ,  letters  patent  dated  at,  45,  48,  49, 

5.3,  56,  57,  59,  61,  62,  G5,  6S,  70,  206, 
217,  389,  392,  393,  42G,  GIO,  Gil,  619, 
620,  625,  631,  632,  634. 

 ,  chapel  of  St.  Mary  at  Spou  by,  471. 

 ,  subsidy  and  ulnage  of  cloth  in,  348, 

478,  537. 

 outlawry  iu,  3,  7,  79,  143,  167,  174, 

386. 

 ,  archdeacon  of.    See  Kilkenn}'. 

Coventry  and  Lichfield,   bishop   of.  Sec 

Hales  ;  Noiiant  ;  Meuland ;  Langetou  ; 

Scrope  ;  Clinton. 

 ,  diocese  of,  130,  206,  393,  416. 

Coverdale,  co.  York,  483,  486. 
Covert,  John,  462,  492. 

 ,  William,  633. 

Cowche,  William,  573. 

Cowelej-,  Roger,  101. 

Cowell,  Thomas,  vicar  of  Tibhcnhfini,  582. 

Coweton.    See  Cowton. 

Cowelyng,  Henry,  324. 

 Itobcrt,  32-1. 

Cowesby,  Collcsby,  Coosby  by  Trysk,  co. 

York,  503. " 
Coivick,  Cowyk,  co.  Devon,  priory  of,  63. 
Cowley,  Covcley,  co.  Huckingham,  18. 
Cowllej',  Thomas,  521. 
Cowlyng,  John,  215. 
Cov.'otth,  Couwore  [co.  Berks],  43,  118. 
Cowper,  Cowcpar,  Johu,  75,  113. 
Cowthorpe,  Colthorpe,  co.  York,  593. 
Cowton,  South,  483,  4  87. 
Cowton,  Couton,  Kichard,  1C6,  259,  2G9. 
  Thomas,  prebendary  of  St.  Stephen's, 

Westminster,  258. 
 ,  presented    to    the   chapel  of 

St.  Jolui,  Southbroke,  in  South  Weald, 

CO.  Essex,  437. 
Coxhill.    See  Goxhill. 
Coxwold,  Cukewuld,  co.  York,  569. 
Coytesmore,  Coitesmore,  Coytemore,  Geoffrey, 

366,  615,  616,  628,  636. 
Coz,  John  le,  521. 
Crabbe,  John,  354. 

Crabden,  Robert,  mayor  of  Lincoln,  221. 
Crabhay,  co.  Cornwall,  58. 
Cracestre,  Richard,  206. 

 ,  William,  206. 

  xlnd  nee  Crowcestre. 

CraHey,  Cradelcy,  co.  Worcester,  419. 

C.'agfergus.    See  Canickfergus. 

Cratord.    See  Crayford. 

Crafthole,  Cr()Stcliall,'co.  Cornwall,  457,  529. 

Crakhall,  Henry,  214,  277. 

Crake.    See  Crayke. 

Crakehall,  co.  York,  483,  486,  487, 

 ,  L:tt:c,  483,  4fC,  487. 


I  Crakenthorpe,  Krakenthorp,  Johu,  349,  606, 

610,  635. 
1  Crakke,  Henry,  141. 

 ,  Thomas,  141. 

Cramford.    See  Cranford. 

Cramme,  Richard,  445. 

Cramton,  Christopher,  600. 

Cramwell,  Henry,  8,  81. 

 ,  John,  8,  81. 

Cranborne,  Crambourn,  co.  Dorset,  602. 

Cranbourn,  John,  16. 
i  Cranbrook,  Cranebroke,  co.  Kent,  546. 

,  ,  hundred  of,  301. 

Crane,  Robert,  287,  353. 

Cranfield,  Cranmfeld,  co.  Bedford,  507. 

Cranford,  Cramford,  co.  Middlesex,  78. 

Cranham,  Cravenham,  Wolyngdonbisshop, 
Wokindone  Bisshop,  co.  Essex,  107, 
297,  465,  482. 

Cranlcigh,  Cracclcj',  co.  Surrey,  578. 

Oaninore,  E;ist,  Estranncmere,  co.  Somerset, 
36. 

Cransford,  co.  Suffolk,  110. 

Crantock,  St.  Carantock,  co.  Cornwall,  1. 

Cranych,  Ralph,  405. 

Cratfield,  Gratefeld,  co.  Suffolk,  10,  279. 

Craumfeld.    See  C'rauticld. 

Crau^y,  John,  377. 

Crauzon.    See  Crozon. 

Craven,  co.  Y'^ork,  515,  549. 

Cravenham.    See  Cranham. 

Crawan,  co.  Cornwall,  389. 

Crawford,  Richard,  265. 

Crawhall,  John,  215. 

Crawley,  co,  Sussex,  226. 

 ,  North,  Northcrauley,  co.  Bucking- 

hiim,  254. 

Cray  St.  Mnry,  co.  Kent,  97. 

Crayford,  Craford,  co.  Kent,  576. 

Crayke,  Crake,  co.  York,  223. 

Creake,  Crekc,  co.  Norfolk,  191. 

 ,  South,  Southcreyke,  383. 

Creche,  John,  148. 

Crecy,  Cressy,  Johu,  176. 

 ,   prebendary  of   St.  Stephen's, 

Westminster,  267,  501. 

 ,  deau  of  St.  Mary's,  Shrews- 
bury, 276. 

 ,   ,   prebendary  of   St.  Mary's, 

Warwick,  236. 

 ,  prebendary  of    St.  George's, 

I  Windsor,  236,  274. 

I   ,   ,  warden  of  the  free  chapel  of 

Wemstcde,  40. 

I   Crede,  John,  491. 

Credeho,  co.  Devon,  4CG. 

Crediton,  Criditou,  Kyrton,  co.  Devon,  75, 
603. 

Creed,  Sej  ntciyde,  co,  Coiuwal',  2C4, 
Crcke.    See  Crook, 


GENERAL  INDEX. 


681 


Cremer,  Matthias,  340,  341. 
Crendon,  co.  Buckiughain,  159. 
Creppyng,  co.  Suffolk,  560. 
Cresbien,  John,  223,  385. 
Cresby,  Philip,  197. 
Crescj',  Thomas,  266. 
Cressener,  Alexander,  100,  353. 
Cresset,  Robert,  219,  354,  407,  509,  627. 
Cressill,  William,  114. 

 ,  ,  Joau  his  wife,  114. 

Cressingham,  Little,  co.  Norfolk,  77. 
Cressy.    Sec  Crecy. 
Cressyngham,  John,  71. 
Creston,  John,  171. 

Cretingham,  Gretynghara,  co.    SufiFolk,  34, 
132. 

Crevequer,  IT.  de,  5G1. 

Crewe,  Crue,  co.  Chester,  332. 

Crewkerne,    Crokehorn,     Crukehcrnc,  co. 

Somer.'iet,  380,  458,  530. 
Crich,  CO.  Derby,  562. 
Criche,  Edward,  599. 

 ,  Dan  Robert,  prior  of  Montacute,  14, 

15 

Cricksea,  Cryxethe,  co.  Essex,  386. 
Criditoiv    Sec  Crediton. 
'  Crien,  Ic,'  204. 

Crigglestono,  Crigil.-ton,  co.  York,  74. 

Criklade,  John,  319. 

Crikland,  Hugh,  Ticar  of  Alton,  417. 

Cringlcford,  Kryngelesford,  co.  Norfolk,  191. 

Crioill,  Bertram  de,  123,  561. 

Gripping  Hall  [in  Wakes  Colne],  co.  Esse.\, 

297,  560. 
Crittchirche.    Sec  ( 'hristchurch. 
Cristean,  William,  153. 
Cristede,  John,  468. 
Cvistian,  Robert,  265. 

Critchell,  Long,   Longkirchell,   co.  Dorset, 
534. 

Croesic.    See  Croi>ic. 
Croft,  Crofte,  John,  200,  609. 

 ,   ,  mayor  of  C  ambridge,  609. 

 ,  Matthew,  230. 

 ,  Uichard,  350,  364,  407,  411,429,  563, 

584,  615,  616,  626,  628,  636. 

 ,  ,  the  elder,  29,  .53,   218,  284, 

636. 

 ,  ,  the  younger,  56,  117,  352,  406, 

626. 

 ,  Thomas,  17,  56,  117,  159,  218,  277, 

406,  548,  563,  571,  626. 
(,'roftehall.    Sec  Crafthcle. 
Crofton,  CO.  Lancaster,  17. 
tlroflon,  John,  61,  73. 

 William,  73,  164,  61«. 

Croisic,  Croesic,  Croysik,  in  Brittany,  3S4, 

468,  511. 
Crokby.    Sec  Corby. 
Crokc  in  Bawdrip,  co,  Somerset,  187. 
Crokc,  John,  53,  108,  212,  316,  575. 


Crokehoru.    See  Crewkerne. 

Crokkcr,  .Tohn,  57,  100,  219,  220,  284,  288, 

331,  351,  354,  377,  399,  403,  404,  408, 

418,  427,  464,  552,  612. 
Crokelue.    -See  Carclew. 
Crolandye.    See  Croyland. 
Cromer,  Crowmer,  co.  Norfolk,  2,  245. 
Cromwell,  Ralph,  lord,  399. 

  And  see  Bourchier. 

Cronkesagh,  Richard,  225. 

Crook,  Creke,  co.  Westmoreland,  532. 

Crookdake,  Crokedake,  co.  Cumberland,  13. 

Crooke,  John,  192. 

Croone,  Robert,  510. 

Cropettis,  co.  Gloucester,  541. 

Crosby,  John,  52,  153,  154,  171. 

 ,  John  de,  214. 

Crosse,  le,  co.  Chester,  450. 
Crosse,  John,  582,  589. 

 ,  William,  master  of  the  hospital  of 

St.  Thomas  the  Martyr,  South wark, 
462. 

 ,  ,  parson  of  St.  Michael,  North- 
ampton, 482. 

 ,  ,  parson  of  Harwey  by  Calais, 

482. 

Crostehall.    Sec  Crafthole. 

Crosthwaitc,  (  orsthuayat,  co.  Westmoreland, 

50,  334,  531. 
Crostwhite  by  Norwich,  co.  Norfolk,  342. 
Crouchc,  William,  7,  577. 
Croule.    See  Crowle. 
Crowcestre,  Crowchestre,  Richard,  328. 

 ,  William,  592. 

  And  sec  Cracestrc. 

Crowcherd,  John,  320. 

Crowchestre.    See  Crowcestre. 

Crowe,  William,  9,  479. 

Crowede,  William,  382. 

Croweherst,  John,  289. 

Crowemer.    See  Cromer ;  Crowmer. 

Crowland,  John,  44,  588. 

Crowle,  Croule,  co.  Worcester,  110. 

Crowmer.    Sec  Cromer. 

Crowmer,  Crowemer,  James,  197,284,  571. 

 ,  William,  389. 

Crowton,  John,  500. 
Croxton,  Thomas,  7. 

 ,   coroner  and  attorney  in  (he 

King's  Bench,  11. 

Croydon,  co.  Surrey,  7,  226,  254,  357. 

Croyland,  Crolandye,  co.  Lincoln,  abbey  of, 
181,  205. 

 ,  convent  of,  183,  604. 

 ,  John  Litlyngton,  abbot  of,  183. 

 ,  John  Wysbeche,  abbot  of,  205,  604. 

 ,  Nicholas  Wyscbeche,  abbot  of,  181. 

Croysik.    Sec  Croisic. 

Crozon,  Crauzon,  in  Brittany,  port  of,  198. 

 ,  ship  called  la  Katerync  of,  198. 


682 


GENERAL  INDEX. 


Cruce,  Maurice,  197. 
Cruceman,  Richard,  30. 
Crudwell  [CO.  Wilts],  53. 
Crue.    See  Crewe. 
Crue,  John,  451. 

Crugge,  John,  rector  of  the  portion  of  Clare 
in  the  church  of  Tiverton,  292. 

Crukeherne.    See  Crewkerne. 

Crukerne,  William,  abbot  of  Muchelney,  239, 
260. 

Cramwell,  John,  309. 

Crustwich,  Curstwyche,  co.  Essex,  297,  560. 

Crydyton.    See  Crediton. 

Crysale,  Ralph,  208. 

Crystemas,  Thomas,  524. 

Cryxethe.    See  Cricksea. 

Cubbington,  CobintoQ,  co.  Warwick,  64,  411. 

Cublington,  co.  Buckingham,  52 1 . 

 ,  Coblyngton,  co.  Hereford,  469. 

Cukewald.    See  Coxwold. 
Cullyng,  Thomas,  4. 

Culmington  in  le  Corvedale,  co.  Salop,  543, 
557. 

Culme  John.    See  Columbjohn. 

Culne.    See  Coin. 

Culpepyr.    See  Colepeper. 

Culpyn,  Nicholas,  254. 

Culquite.    See  Colquito. 

Culton,  John,  215. 

Culveton.    See  Kilton. 

Cuhvorth,  CO.  Northampton,  452. 

Cumberford,  William,  70,  158,  351,  630. 

Cumberland,  county  of,  26,  88,  131,  171,  181, 

206,  211,  214,  219,  251,  261,  329,  333, 

347,  349,  490,  556,  606. 
 ,  sheriff  of,  251,  261,  349,  490, 

525. 

 ,   Anrl  nee  Lamplogh  ;  Iludlcs- 

tou  ;  I'arr  ;  Moresby  ;  Richard. 

 ,  escheator  in,  134, 

 ^nrf  see  Moresby. 

 ,  ,  subsidy  and  uluage  of  cloth  in, 

329,  333,  347. 

 ,  justices  of  the  peace  iu,  347. 

 ,   commissions  of  the  peace  in, 

610. 

Cumberland,  John,  318. 
Cumberworth,  co.  Lincoln,  508, 
Cumwell,  John,  the  elder,  324. 

 ,  ,  the  younger,  324. 

Cunff,  William  le,  521. 

Cunnesburgh,  Edmund,  609. 

Cunstable.    See  Constable. 

Cunwey.    See  Conway. 

Cupar,  Coupyr  in  Eyffe,  in  Scotland,  448. 

Cupper,  Thomas,  182. 

Curborough,  co.  Stafford,  16. 

Curry  Malet,  Corymalet,  co.  Somerset,  17. 

  Rivel,  Coryrevell,  co.  Somerset,  223, 

S39. 

Curson,  John,  14,  256,  408,  500,  611. 


Curson,  John,  sheriff  of  Nottingham  and 
Derby,  421. 

  Philip,  387. 

 ,  Thomas,  387. 

Curstwj'che.    See  Crustwich, 

Curteys,  Giles,  201,  208, 

 ,  John,  4,  54,  223. 

 ,  Peter,  66,  273,  295,  324. 

 ,  Richard,  53. 

 ,  William,  169,  322,  562. 

 ,  Master  William,   parson   of  High 

Ongar,  263. 

  A7id  see  Courteys. 

Curwen,  Thomas,  349,  610. 

Custacius,  artiller  of  Calais,  64, 

Customs  and  subsidies,  11,  19,  31,  49,  53,  69, 
85,  87,  95,  106,  113,  114, 122, 126,  132, 
134,  160-162,  165,  181,  186,  209,  210, 
212,  213,  229,  245,  273,  304-307,  309, 
336-338,  361,  367,  368,  375,  389,  392, 
394,  41],  415,  422,  427,  445,  450,  451, 
468,  474,  511-514,  532,  533,  534,  536, 
543,  545,  555,  565,  587,  595. 

Customs,  great,  15,  59,  91,  167,  168,  216,  230, 
231,  268,  269,  357,  388,  438,  469,  553, 
5.'>4,  584,  592. 

 ,  petty,  15,  59,  91,  115,  167,  168,  175, 

186,  216,  230,  231,  268,  337,  357,  374, 
452,  469,  484,  528,  553,  554,  558,  559, 
584,  592. 

  of  wools,  &c.,  11,  15,  31,  53,  59,  85, 

87,96,  108,  109,153-155,160,  161,  165, 
186,  212,  213,  216,  230,  231,  245,  270, 
273,  306,  337,  341,  357,  388,  389,  422, 
445,  452,  532,  533,  543,  558,  559,  561, 
565,  584. 

Cutcombe,  Codecombe  Mohun,  co.  Somerset, 
115. 

Cutton  (in  Poltimorc,  co.  Devon),  prebend  of, 
212. 

Cuttyuge,  William,  339. 


D. 

Daa,  William,  214. 
Dachet.    Sec  Datchct. 
Dacre,  co.  Cumberland,  96. 
Dacre,  Humphrey,  90,  349,  606. 

 ,   ,  lord   Dacre,   183,  350,  610, 

635. 

 ,  Ranulph,  26,  29,  96. 

 ,  Eleanor  his  wife,  26,  96. 

Dadyngton.    See  Deddington. 
Dagdewe,  l^aggedewe,  John,  362. 
Dagvile,  William,  626. 

 ,   ,  mayor  of  Oxford,  626. 

Dagwortli  (in  Pebir.arsh),  co.  Essex,  515, 
Dalabere.    Sec  Delabere. 


GENERAL  INDEX. 


683 


Dalamare,  Alice,  204. 

 ,  Henry,  203. 

 ,  John,  203,  204. 

 ,  Thomas,  317,  349. 

  And  see  Delamare. 

Dalbere,  co.  Derby,  32,  137. 
Dalberesleis,  co.  Derby,  32,  137. 
Dalby,  Alice,  144. 

 ,  Hugh,  8. 

 ,  John,  144,  191. 

Dalcote.    See  Dulcotc. 

Dale,  CO.  Derby,  abbot  and  convent  of,  410, 
479. 

 ,  John  Stanley,  abbot  of,  479. 

Dale,  Dalle,  John,  24,  381,  027. 
 William,  53. 

Dale  Head,  le  Dalehede  [co.  Cumberland], 

334,  532. 
Dalham,  co.  Suffolk,  93. 
Dalker,  Richard,  462,  492. 
Dalle.    See  Dale. 
Dalling,  CO.  Norfolk,  191. 
Dallington,  Duljntoii,  co.  Northampton,  521. 
Dalson,  Thomas,  202. 
Dalton,  John,  2. 

 Ralph,  117. 

 ,  Thomas,  2. 

Daltport,  Robert,  002. 
Daly,  John,  384. 
Dalyngrigge,  Richard,  033. 
Dalynton.    .SVe  Dallington. 
Dam,  John,  93. 
Damascata.    See  Dcmascata. 
Damay,  Robert,  325,  609. 

 ,  ,  mayor  of  Cambridge,  009. 

Damlet,  Laurence,  warden  of  the  college  of 

minor  canons  of  St.  Paul's,  London, 

135. 

Dammer,  Richard,  432. 

Damory,  Richard,  241. 

Damport,  James,  279. 

Damyon,  Bartholomew,  225,  326. 

Danby,  co.  York,  forest  of,  205,  206. 

  Wiske,  CO.  York,  1,  148. 

Danby,  George,  prior  of  the  Friars  Minor  of 
Scarborough,  578. 

 ,  James,  177,  038. 

 Ralph,  503. 

 ,  Robert,  70,  85,  102,  103,  170,  171, 

221,  247,  251,  408,  611,  618-C21,  623, 
624,  626,  634,  637. 

 ,    chief  justice  of  the  Ik'nch,  1, 

3,  5-10,  12,  16,  20,  21,  38,  44,  51,  52, 
72,  73,  77-79,  91,  94,  99,  109,  119, 
122,  127,  128,  131,  141.  145,  154,  161, 
164,  167,  173,  174,  183,  202,  223-229, 
25.3-257,  263,  320-327,  344,  362,  364, 
380-387,  389,  400,  431-437,  443,  456, 
475,  498-500,  602,  503,  575-582,  589, 
593. 

Dancastre.    Sec  Doncaster. 
Dandia,  Domou  John,  273,  422. 


Dane,  in  Boughton,  co.  Kent,  297. 
Danell.    See  Dauyell. 
Daners,  Henry,  438,  488.  495. 
Danet,  Danett,  Thomas,  the  king's  almoner* 
604. 

 ,   ,  parson  of  St.  Mary,  Calais, 

568. 

 ,  Master    Thomas,    prebendary  of 

Pontesbury,  277. 
 ,    prebendary  of  St.  George's, 

Windsor,  359. 

 ,   ,  parson  of  Eglestou,  393. 

Dangore,  John,  182. 

Dannett,  Douenant  [in  Quetbiock],  co.  Corn- 
wall, 444. 

Dannon,  Dawnoth  [in  St.  Teath],  co.  Corn- 
wall, 467. 

Dantzig,  Dansk,  in  Prussia,  101,  168,  491, 
494. 

 ,  ship  called  le  George  of,  491,  494. 

Danvers,  John,  257,  325,  433,  434. 

  Richard,  28,  248,  249,  285,  350,  375, 

406,  452,  554,  625. 

 ,  Thomas,  568,  625,  629. 

 William,  29,  374,  472,  584,  608,  620. 

Dauy,  Henry,  577. 

 ,  John,  605. 

Danyell,  Danell,  Peter,  524. 
 George,  610. 

 ,  Thomas,  169,  170,  236,  251,286,  287, 

293,  332,  458,  497,  512,  524,  526,  570, 
572,  623. 

 ,  lord  of  Rathwirc,  598. 

 ,  William,  332,  498, 

 ,  ,  parson  of  Solihull,  206. 

Daiiyshampton,  co.  Devon,  36. 
Dappemont,  Francis,  201,  217,  221. 
Darcy,  .Tohn,  297,  318,  451. 

 ,  Robert,  613. 

Darcll,  Alexander,  70,  71. 

 Constantine,  70,  71. 

 George,  32,  33,  70,  71,  120,  19G,  219, 

220,  284,  419,  635. 

 ,  keeper  of  the  wardrobe,  186. 

 John,  391. 

 .Richard,  56,  70,  71,  196,  220,  25r., 

629. 

 ,  Robert,  363. 

 ,   ,  warden  of  the  hospital  of 

St.  Mary,  Ospringc,  228. 

 ,  Thomas,  70,  71,  580. 

'   William,  70,  71. 

I  Daresbury,  co.  Chester,  332. 
]  Darltou,  Darlyngton,  Derlcton,  co.  Netting, 
ham,  243,  441,  482. 

Daruelon,  Thomas,  377,  378. 

Darryveire,  Bartholomew,  49,  159. 

Darset,  Richard,  9. 

 William,  43. 

j  Dartford,  Derti'ford,  co.  Kent,  250,  300,  383. 
I   Dartiugton,  Dertynglon,  co.  Devon,  32,  137. 


684 


GENERAL  INDEX. 


Dartmoor,  Dertmore,  co.  Devon,  forest  of, 
173. 

Dartmouth,  Dertemuth,  co.  Devon,  29,  .5", 
60,  114,  128,  198,  288,  457,  529,  543, 
555. 

 ,  mayor  of.    See  Langmede. 

 ,  port  of,  11,  34,  59,  91,  114,  154,  167, 

184,  209,  216,  231,  262,  263,  268,  269, 
288,  443,  468,  511,  521,  543,  554,  555, 

584,  587,  592,  593,  603. 

 ,  ship  called  la  Mar  ye  of,  525. 

 ,  ship  called  le  Marye  Calder  of,  288. 

Darwent.    See  Derwent. 

Dasset,  Dorset,  Great,  co.  Warwick,  133. 
Dasshe,  John,  parson  of  North  Cove,  91. 
Datchet,  Dachet,  co.  Buckingham,  368,  574. 
Daubeney,  Dawebeuey,  Giles,  398,  524,  533, 

585,  629. 

 ,  John,  490. 

 ,  William,  398. 

Dauoton,  Peter,  of  Hatton,  497,  524,  526, 
572. 

Dauuce,  Kichard,  229. 
Dauucy,  Robert,  218. 

Daunde  by  Dartmouth,  co.  Devon,  457, 
529. 

Daundcsleywyk,  co.  Southampton,  534. 

Daunditrue,  John,  333. 

Dauuger,  John,  190. 

Daungevjle,  William,  75. 

Daunser,  Thomas,  321. 

Dauphin,  the,  of  France,  583. 

Dauson,  Laurence,  2. 

Davers.    See  Danvers. 

David,  Hugh,  128. 

David  ap  Howell,  parson  of  la  More,  294. 
David  ap  Howel  ap  GriS  ap  Tudor,  86. 
Davies,  John,  262. 
Davy,  Elias,  82. 

 ,  Henry,  30,  384. 

 ,  James,  13. 

 ,  John,  40,  118,  130,  197,  290,  324,  445, 

446. 

 ,  Louis,  31. 

 ,  Thomas,  75,  413. 

 ,   ,  Joan  his  wife,  443. 

 ,  William,  30,  383,  387,  472. 

 ,  ,  mayor  of  Drogheda,  193. 

Davyson,  David,  452. 

 ,  John,  125,  325,  32G,  352. 

 ,  ,  dean  of  St.  George's,  Windsor, 

278,  412. 

 ,  parson  of  Old  Romney,  244. 

 ,   ,  prebendary  of  St.  Stephen's, 

Westminster,  244. 
.„   ,   ,  keeper  of  the  hanaper,  47,  245, 

357,  383,  398. 

 ,   ,  dean  of  Salisbury,  563. 

 ,   ,  prebendary    of    St.  Paul's, 

London,  412. 
 ,  prebendary    of   St.  Mary's, 

Norwich,  357. 


Davyson,  Eohert,  74. 
Dawe,  Auerus,  477. 

 ,  Robert,  203. 

 ,  William,  143,  378. 

Dawlish,  co.  Devon,  82. 
Dawna,  John,  104. 

Dawne,  Daune,  George,  prebend.iry  of  St. 

Stephen's,  Westminster,  547,  551. 
 ,   ,  prebendary    of  Chichester, 

551. 

 ,  ,  chaplain  of  Lamana,  479. 

Dawnej',  Henry,  573. 

 ,  John,  334,  523. 

Dawnoth.    See  Daunon. 
Dawrey.    See  Auray. 
Daws,  William,  80. 
Daxe,  Thomas,  201. 
Day,  Thomas,  2. 
Daylesford,  co.  Worcester,  2. 
Dayowe,  Henry,  104. 

 ,  James,  104. 

Deal,  Dele,  co.  Kent,  290,  303. 
Dean,  Dene,  co.  Gloucester,  forest  of,  220, 
484,  601. 

 ,  Deene,  co.  Oxford,  226,  382,  436. 

Dean  Prior,  Denpryour,  co.  Devon,  225. 
Debenham,  Gilbert,  esquire,  202,  352,  353, 

373,  590,  631. 
 ,  ,  knight,  152,  352,  353,  373, 

384,  406,  467,  468,  491,  497,  526,  560, 

572,  631. 

 ,   ,  Katharine,  his  wife,  152,  373. 

 ,  Gilbert,  chancellor  of  Ireland,  461. 

 ,  Stephen,  223,  383. 

Dechyngham.    See  Ditchingham. 
Deddington,  Dadyngton,  co.  Oxford,  73. 
Dedham,  Bedham,  co.  Essex,  434,  581. 
Deene.    See  Dean. 

Deerhurst,  Derohurst,  co.  Gloucester,  66,  67. 

 ,  alien  priory  of,  66,  67,  551. 

 ,  William  Bokelond,  prior  of,  66. 

Degone,  John,  201,  217,  221. 
Dekelburgh.    See  Dickleburgh. 
Delabere,  Dalabere,  Kynard,  425. 

 ,   ,  Joan  his  wife,  425. 

 ,  Richard,  425,  429,  616. 

Delalaunde.    Sec  Lauude. 
Delamare,  Anne,  425. 

 ,  Bernard,  374. 

 ,  Margaret,  425. 

 ,  Richard,  425.- 

 ,  ,  Alice  his  wife,  425. 

 ,  Thomas,  374,  425,  552,  558,  608. 

 ,  ,  sheriff  of  Wilts,  178. 

  And  see  Dalamare. 

Delamers,  co.  Gloucester,  534. 
Dele.    Sec  Deal. 

Deliaboll,   Deliowboll    (in    St.   Teatli),  co. 
Cornwall,  389,  444. 

Deliowe,  co.  Cornwall,  444. 


GENERAL  INDEX. 


Deliowboleyn,  co.  Cornwall,  444. 
Deliowcarboleyn,  co.  Cornwall,  444. 
Delves,  Delvys,  John,  231,  239,  536,  C30. 
Delvyn,  baron  of.    See  Nugent. 
Delvys.    See  Delves. 

Demascata,  Damascata,  Domyngo,  317-319, 
354. 

 John,  317-319,  354. 

Demoyne,  John,  57. 
Denardake,  co.  Cornwall,  421. 
Denardeston.    See  Dcnston. 
Denbigh,  Dynbigh,  22,  183. 
Denby  Grange,  co.  York,  3. 
Dendron,  Deuron,  co.  Lancaster,  456. 
Dene.    See  Dean. 
Dene,  Henry,  164. 

 ,  Thomas,  the  younger,  289. 

 William,  263. 

Denham,  co.  Buckingham,  80. 

 CO.  Suffolk,  93. 

Denham,  Charles,  407. 
Denis,  Maurice,  386. 
Denissh,  John,  84. 

Denization,  letters  of,  12,  52,  65,  86,  87,  113, 
159,  184,  207,  214,  236,  237,  297,  299, 
306,  307,  313,  357,  359,  361,  362,  374, 
393,  396,  401,  402,  423,  448,  479,  488, 
509,  510,  518,  535,  547,  557,  565,  594, 
604. 

Denman,  Thomas,  577. 

Denmark,  king  of,  245. 

Denney,  co.  Gloucester,  481,  .SSS. 

Dennington,  Denyngton,  co.  Suffolk,  34,  332. 

Denpryour.    See  Dean  Prior. 

Denron.    See  Dendron. 

Denston,  Denardeston,  co.  Suffolk,  484. 

Denston,  John,  484. 

 ,  ,  Katharine  his  wife,  484. 

 William,  484. 

 Margaret  his  wife,  484. 

Dent,  William,  145. 
Denton,  Alice,  77. 

 ,  John,  29,  626. 

 ,  Thomas,  626. 

Denyngton.    See  Dennington. 
Denys,  Hugh,  221. 

 John,  29,  58,  100,  101,  105,  168,  219, 

246,  247,  351,  403,  407,  408,  427,  435, 
612. 

 ,  Margaret,  374. 

 ,  Michael,  216,  374,  403,  429,  511. 

 ,  Richard,  75. 

Depe.    See  Dieppe. 

Deptford,  Dcpford,  co.  Kent,  291,  385. 

Derby,  8,  202,  218. 

 archdeacon  of.    See  Chauntry. 

 county  of,  55,  70,  130,  195,  218,  233, 

244,  248,  284,  285,  329.  3  18,  350,  40.1, 
408,  428,  430,  441,  412,  457,  462,  482, 
492,  496,  511,  513,  529,  535. 


Derby,  county  of,  sheriff  of,  130,  243,  244, 

284,  350,  408,  492,  525. 
 ,    And  see    Leek  ;  Monte 

Gomeri ;  Strellty  ;  Curson. 

 ,   ,  eschcator  in,  35,  135,  391,  475. 

  A7id  see  Malory. 

 ,   outlawries  in,  1,  8,  10,  76,  146, 

400,  435. 

 ,   subsidy  and  ulnage  of  cloth  in, 

329,  348. 

 commissions  of  the  peace  in, 

611. 

Derby,  John,  223. 

 ,  Nicholas,  257. 

 ,  llichard,  539. 

 ,  Robert,  381. 

 ,  Thomas,  the  elder,  473. 

 ,   Agnes  his  wife,  473. 

 William,  203. 

Dere,  Thomas,  77. 

 ,  William,  120,  121. 

Dereham,  Thomas,  65. 

  And  sec  Derham. 

Dereman,  Thomas,  72. 
Derham.    See  Durham, 
Derham,  John,  246,  247. 

 Thomas,  169,  170. 

 ,  the  elder,  416,  417. 

 ,  Joan  his  wife,  416. 

 ,  Thomas,  the  younger,  417. 

Derleton.    See  Darltoii. 

Dernian,  Master  John,  208. 

Derneford,  James,  23. 

Dertmore.    See  Dartmoor. 

Dertenmth.    See  Dartmouth. 

Dertyngton.    See  Dartington. 

Derwent,  Darwent,  river,  co.  Cumberland,  25. 

 ,  Went,  river,  co.  York,  251,  428,  572. 

Desford,  Thomas,  240,  537. 
Desmond,  James,  carl  of,  595. 
Despencer,  Hugh  le,  520. 
Dcsydwyn,  Gilbert,  307. 
Deue,  David,  55,  57. 
Deueleke.    Sec  Duleek. 
Deulacrcsse.    See  Dieulacresse. 
Deux,  Rartholomew,  374. 

 ,  Edward,  604. 

Devare,  William,  50. 
Develyn,  Philip,  15. 

Devenysb,  John,  247,  249,  351,  405,  633. 
Devercux,  John,  220,  288,  289,  350,  390,  407, 
429,  615,  616. 

 ,  Robert,  of  Ferrers,  627. 

   ,  lord  Ferrers,  454. 

 ,  Walter,  lord  Ferrers,  51,  55,  57,  58, 

70,  95,  103,  127,  140,  171,  172,  175, 
195,  198,  219,  220,  283,  28  I,  289,  349, 
350,  366,  429,  444,  469,  509,  553,  565, 
583,612,  614,  616,  627,  629,  636. 

 ,   ,  sheriff  of  Carnarvon,  212. 


686 


GENERAL  INDEX. 


Devizea,  DevyRe,  Levyae,  co.  Wilts,  362,  402, 
498. 

Devon,  county  of,  4,  33,  36,  44,  55-57,  65, 
100,  112,  114,  127,  128,  138,  139,  173, 
195,  197,  204,  218-220,  246,  247,  284, 
329,  347,  351,  368,  407,  427,  430,  462, 
464-466,  490-493,  495,  496,  513,  525, 
547,  574,  589,  598. 

 ,   ,  sheriff  of,  24,  29,  44,  56,  101, 

171,  198,  217,  219,  251,  284,  288,  351, 
356,  403,  404,  407,  408,  429,  466,  490, 
492,  552. 

•   ,   And  see  ForteBcu  ;  Beaumont ; 

Dynham  ;  Carew. 

 ,  escheator  in,  15,  24,  233,  296, 

550. 

  And  see  Gill;  Carew;  Cour- 

tenay  ;  Penpons  ;  Halwell. 

 ,  ,  outlawries  in,  5,  8,  12,  51,  52, 

72,  74-76,  78-81,  94,  99,  109,  143, 
145,  148,  149,  154,  203,  223,  224,  257, 
321,  324,  326,  327,  331,  383,  384,  431, 
502,  503,  576-578,  580. 

 ,  ,  subsidy  and  ulnage  of  cloth  in, 

329,  347,  478. 

 ,  ,  tin  and  lead  in,  36. 

 ,  ,  stannaries  in,  173. 

 ,  mines  in,  420. 

 ,    justices  of  the  peace  in,  171, 

403,  404. 

 ,    commissions  of  the  peace  in, 

611. 

Devon  river,  co.  Nottingham,  462. 
Devyok,  John,  378,  399. 
Dexter,  Kobert,  145. 
Dey,  John,  78,  264,  357,  511,  573. 

 ,   ,  Alice  his  wife,  264. 

 John,  mayor  of  Kingston  Hull,  29. 

 ,  Richard,  77. 

Deynes,  Eobert,  250. 

Dickleburgh,  Dekilbourgh,  co.  Norfolk,  191, 
382. 

Dieppe,  Depe,  in  Normandy,  201,  217  221. 
Dieulacresse,  Deulacresse,  co.  Stafford,  abbot 
and  convent  of,  34. 

 ,  William,  abbot  of,  34. 

Diflford.    See  Dishforth. 

Digby,  Dygby,  co.  Lincoln,  34,  310,  523. 

Digby,  Dygby,  Edward,  G6,  350. 

 ,  Kverard,  627. 

Digges.    See  Dygges. 
Dike,  John,  459. 

  And  see  Dyke. 

Diksou,  John,  251. 

 ,  Nicholas,  prebendary  of  Chiswick, 

176. 

  ^nd  see  Dixson  ;  Dyksou. 

Dil worth  [in  liibchester],  co.  Lancaster,  307, 
419. 

Dlmmok.    See  Dymmok. 
Dinant,  Dynant,  in  Almain,  282. 
Dinton,  Donton,  Donyngtou,  co.  Buckingham, 
309. 


Dirham,  John,  608. 

Dishforth,  Difford,  Dysforth  in  Topcliffe,  co. 

York,  326,  483,  486. 
Disney,  John,  352. 
Diss,  Dysse,  co.  Norfolk,  12,  581. 
Disserthe,  co.  Flint,  153, 
Ditchingham,  Dechyngham,  co.  Norfolk,  191, 

539,  577. 

Ditton,  Dytton,  co.  Buckingham,  368,  574. 
Dixson,  Thomas,  108. 
Dobbe,  John,  39. 

Dobbes,  Master  Kobert,  parson  of  Cottingham, 
369. 

Dobbesson,  Robert,  77. 
Dobbus,  Dolbus,  John,  626. 

 ,   mayor  of  Oxford,  026. 

Dobley,  Christopher,  323. 
Dobson,  Stephen,  202. 

 ,  William,  299. 

Dobyn,  Joan,  78. 

 Eobert,  203. 

Dockyng.    See  Dokkyng. 
Dodde,  William,  436. 

Doddinghurst,    Duddynghurst,    co.  Essex, 

295,  297,  560.  " 
Doddington,  Dodyngton,  co.  Lincoln,  354. 

  Pygot,  28,  322. 

Dodecote,  John,  169. 

Dodesham,  William,  115,  194,  522. 

Dodmor,  Henry,  2. 

Dodson,  JohD,  327. 

Dodyngfels,  Gerard,  502. 

Dodyngton.    See  Doddington  ;  Duddington. 

Dodyngton,  Robert,  9. 

Dogeson,  John,  327. 

Doget,  John,  434. 

Dogmersfield,  letters  patent  dated  at,  11,  17, 
31-34,  42,  44-46,  49,  50,  53,  55,  57-59, 
61,  82,  86,  87,  91,  100,  101,  107,  116, 
124,  151,  152,  155,  157,  159,  160,  162, 
163,  168,  170,  171,  607,  611,  612,  623, 
629-632,  634. 

Doily,  Richard,  286. 

Doket,  Master  Andrew,  president  of  Queen's 

College,  Cambridge,  394. 
 ,  Roger,  498. 

Dokkyng,  Dockyng,  Robert,  170,  354,  619, 

 ,  Richard,  355, 

Dokray,  James,  161,  162. 

 ,  mayor  of  Drogheda,  193. 

Dokylby,  Thomas,  parson  of  Gedling,  591. 
Dolas,  Henry,  482. 
Dolbus.    See  Dobbus. 
Don  river,  572. 
Don,  Alexander,  277, 

 ,  John,  59,  60,  167,  198. 

 ,  ,  Elizabeth  his  wife,  59,  60. 

 ,  Robert,  260. 

 ,  Thomas,  168. 

  And  see  Donne. 

Doncalf,  Thomas,  103, 


GENERAL  INDEX. 


687 


Doncaster,  Dancastre,  co.  York,  72,  102,  103, 

316,  441,  477. 

 Carmelite  friars  of,  375. 

 ,  John  Sutton,  prior  of,  375. 

Donerdale.    See  Dunnerdale. 

Douingtou,   Donyiigtoii,  co.   Licccstcr,  27, 

517. 

 CO.  Lincoln,  297,  457. 

Donlowe,  CO.  Wilts,  hundred  of,  4GG. 
Donne,  Bartholomew,  434,  581. 

 ,  John,  86,  274,  517,  551. 

  And  see  Don. 

Donnyng,  William,  360. 
Donnyngton,  co.  Lincoln,  529. 
Donsland,  Dunueslond,  co.  Devon,  24,  45. 
Donstar.    See  Dunster. 
Dontesburn.    See  Diintisborne. 
Donton,    See  Dintou. 
Donton,  Henr^',  214. 

Donyland,  Kast,  Estdoniland,  co.  Essex,  318. 
Donyngton.    See  Donlugtou  ;  Dinton. 
Donyngton,  John,  573. 

 llobert,  9. 

 Thomas,  10. 

Doo,  John,  21. 
Doraude,  Roger,  113. 

Dorchester,  co.  Dorset,  55,  57,  85,  242,  396, 

4^8,  544,  575. 
 , '  le  priory  hermitage  '  by,  William 

Broun,  master  of,  235. 

 ,  ,  Robert  JJothe,  master  of,  401. 

 hospital  of  St.  John  IJaptist,  b2,  394. 

 ,  Willi«m  Broun,  warden  of,  235. 

 ,  Master  OliTer  Kyng,  warden 

of,  401. 

 ,  CO.  Oxford,  JOl,  223. 

Dorchestre,    Dorchestyr,    Hugh,   abbot  of 

Abbotsbury,  116,  125. 
.Dordrecht,  Vandordrygh  in  Holland,  428. 

 ship  called  Ic  Playte  of,  429. 

Dore,  John,  prior  of  ilontacuto,  15. 
Doreward,  Dorward,  John,  ?4,  492,  509. 

 ,  Richard,  509. 

Dorham,  John,  224. 

 ,   ,  prior  of  Newsteadin  Slienvood, 

35. 

Dorking,  co.  Surre.y,  153,  539,  596. 

Dorman,  John,  218. 

Dorney  [co.  Buckingham],  287. 

Dorset,  county  of,  20,  25,  5G,  65,  126,  139, 
159,  162,  182,  188,  195,  196,  218-220, 
242,  247,  263,  278,  284,  305,  329,  335, 
347,  351.  406,  427,  430,  462,  490,  492, 
496,  524,  550,  573. 

 ,   ,  sheriff   of,  20,   56,  95,  126, 

159,  173,  182,  188,  219,  242,  284,  351, 
406,  428,  490,  492,  524,  590. 

 ,    .(4 nif  see  Stafford  ;  lirownyng  ; 

Herbert;  Sidenham  :  Worselej'. 

 ,   ,  escheator  in,  15,  125,  233,  241, 

278,  279,  296,  339,  399,  550. 


Dorset,  county  of.    And  see  Gill ;  Twynyho  ; 

Phelip  ;  Vowell ;  Say  ;  Hugyn. 
 ,   ,  outlawries  in,  1,  3,  38,  79,  109, 

326,  579. 

 ,   ,  subsidy  and  ulnage  of  cloth  in 

238,  266,  329,  335,  347,  444,  478,  537. 

 ,  commission  of  the  peace  in, 

612. 

 CO.  Cornwall,  389. 

  And  see  Dasset. 

Dorward.    See  Doreward, 

Douenant.    See  Dannett. 

Doughty,  Richard,  353. 

Douglas,  the  earl  of,  583. 

 James,  earl  of,  243,  513. 

Doune,  John,  175. 

Dounham.    See  Downhain. 

Dounyng,  Thomas,  287. 

Dounton.    See  DuntoD. 

Dounton,  John,  107. 

Dousyng,  Stephen,  580. 

Douve,  Dowve,  John,  453,  454. 

Dover,  co.  Kent,  271,  276,  302,  393,  573. 

 ,  mayor  of,  393. 

 ,  port  of,  496. 

 ,  charters  dated  at,  364,  376. 

 ,  hospital  of  St.  Mary,  John  Barbourc, 

master  of,  16. 

Dover  castle,  constable  of,  206. 

  And  see  L'itzAlan. 

 ,  lieutenant  of.    See  Scott. 

Doverdale,  co.  Worcester,  110. 

Dowdeswell.  Over,  Overdoudeswcll,  co, 
Gloucester,  119. 

Dowell,  John,  102. 

Dowencs,  John,  501. 

Dowerissh,  John,  57,  407. 

 ,  Thomas,  101,  127,  168,  377,  612. 

Dowes,  John,  491,  578,  589. 

Dowghty,  William,  286. 

Down  End,  co.  Somerset,  187. 

Downc,  Sir  Thomas,  prebendary  of  Bridg- 
north, 265. 

Downham,  Dounham,  co.  Cambridge,  518, 
519. 

 ,  eo.  Essex,  318. 

Downhamford.     Dunhampford,    co.  Kent, 

hundred  of,  240,  302. 
Downlicad,  Dunhede,  co.  Somerset,  458,  530. 
Downs,  the.  340. 
Downton,  William,  442. 
Dowsdalc  [eo.  Lincoln],  170. 
Dowve.    See  Douve. 
Dragane,  George,  537. 
Drake,  Richard,  542. 

 ,  Robert,  322. 

 ,  William,  377. 

Draper,  Henry,  251. 
 ,  Hu;,rh, 

 ,  John,  166,  221,  259,  269,  301,  367. 

 ,  Richard,  384. 


688 


GENERAL  INDEX. 


Draper,  Robert,  parson  of  Aldrington,  396. 

 ,  Walter,  28  G. 

 ,  Wniiara,  406. 

Drax,  CO.  York,  John  Ufflete,  prior  of,  179. 
Drax,  Alexander,  131. 

 ,  John,  407. 

Draycott,  Koger,  208,  218. 
Drayton,  co.  Middlesex,  523. 

 ,  CO.  Northampton,  158. 

 ,  West,  CO.  Berks,  147. 

 ,  East,  Estdrayton,   co.  Nottingham, 

501. 

 Basset  fco.  Stafford],  357. 

 ,  Feu,  Fyndrayton,    co.  Cambridge, 

131. 

  Parslow,  Drayton    Passelewe,  co. 

Buckingham,  263,  344. 
Drewe,  John,  318,  494. 

 ,  Thomas,  224. 

Drewell,  John,  9. 

  Aiid  see  Druell. 

Drewes,  John,  593. 

Drewsteignton,  Druestayton,  Druys  Taynton, 
Teyngton  Drue,'co.  Devon,  203,  213, 
603. 

Driffeld,  Ralph,  76. 
Driffield,  Little,  co.  York,  148. 
Drogheda,  Drodath,  in  Ireland,  193,  391,  390, 
468. 

 ,  mayor  and  commonalty  of,  193,  391. 

 ,  mayor  of.    See  Dokray  ;  Davy. 

 ,  letters  patent  dated  at,  161. 

Droitwicb,  Wyche,  co.  AVorcester,  67,  110, 
274. 

Dromore,  bishop  of.    See  Egremond. 
Drope,  Robert,  317,  445,  446. 

 ,  sheriff  of  London,  205. 

 ,   ,  mayor  of  London,  481. 

Droup,  Joan,  592. 

.r.  ,  Robert,  592. 

 Walter,  692. 

 William,  592. 

Drowell.    See  Druell. 

Druell,  Drewell,  Drowell,  Dryuell,  Richard, 
250,  292. 

 ,  William,  281,  387,  407,  428,  617. 

Druels,  co.  Buckingham,  471. 

Druestayton.    See  Drewsteiguton. 

Druett,  William,  571. 

Druffeld.    See  Dryffelde. 

Drure,  William,  571. 

Drur}-,  Nicholas,  515. 

Druys  Tayuton.    See  Drewsteignton. 

Dryffelde,  Druffeld,  Thomas,  549. 

Dryland,  John,  383,  575. 

 ,  Robert,  301. 

Dryng,  John,  82. 

 ,  Richard,  82. 

 ,  William,  322. 

Dryuell.    See  Druell. 


Dryver,  Stephen,  318. 

 William,  324. 

Duardyng  [co.  Devon],  36. 

Dubber,  Joan,  141. 

Dublin,  in  Ireland,  466,  468,  592. 

 ,  exchequer  of,  466. 

 ,  Parliament  at,  193. 

 ,  archbishopric  of,  335,  474. 

 ,  archbishop  of.  See  Tregury  ;  Walton. 

 ,  port  of  598. 

Dubrossay,  John,  54,  58,  101,  104. 
Duddington,  Dudyngton  by  Wakerley,  co. 

Northampton,  557. 
Duddyngherst.    See  Doddinghurst. 
Dudley.  Edmund,  193,  402. 

 ,  John,  318,  351,  406,  590,  629,  633. 

 ,  Master  William,  469,  615,  616,  627, 

636. 

 ,   ,  dean  of  the   king's  chapel, 

274,  276,  363,  412,  512,  539,  540,  543, 
545,  561,  562,  566,  583. 

 ,   prebendary    of   St.  Paul's, 

London,  412. 

 ,  ,  prebendary  of  St.  George's, 

Windsor,  274,  303. 

 ,  dean  of  the  college  of  Bridg- 
north, 276. 

 ,  ,  dean  of  St.  George's,  Windsor, 

412,  424,  461,  596. 

  A7id  see  Sutton. 

Dudstone.  Dudeston,  co.  Gloucester,  hundred 

of,.588. 

Dudyngton.    See  Duddington. 

Duffeld,  Master  Thomas,  chaplain  of  the 
chantry  of  St.  John  Baptist  by  St.  Mary, 
Aldermarychirch,  London,  369,  395. 

Duke,  Richard,  12,  60,  280. 

 ,  Walter,  375. 

  William,  101,  114,  154,  168,  250, 

268. 

Dukkesworth.    See  Duxford. 
Dulcote,  Dalcote,  co.  Somerset,  39. 
Dulcotes,  CO.  Nottingham,  62. 
Dulee,  John,  357. 

Duleek,  Deueleke  [co.  Meath],  504. 
Dullingham,  co.  Cambridge,  297,  434. 
Dundalk,  in  Ireland,  162. 
Dundee,  in  Scotland,  452,  483,  505. 
Dunham  Massy,  co.  Chester,  304. 
Dunhampford.    See  Downhamford. 
Duuhede.    See  Downhead. 
Dunkeswell,  co.  Devon,  John  Otery,  abbot  of, 
81. 

Dunmow,  Little,  co.  Essex,  12. 
Dunne,  John.  2S6,  579. 
Duniierdale,  Donerdale,  co.  Lancaster,  40, 
Dunneslond.    See  Donsland. 
Dunnington,  William,  632. 
Dunnyng,  William,  360. 
Dunrygge,  Richard,  the  elder,  171. 
DuDshall,  CO.  Buckingham,  191. 


GENERAL  INDEX. 


689 


Dunstable,  co.  Bedford,  286,  327,  380,  501 , 
503. 

 ,  charter  dated  at,  369. 

 ,  priory  of  St.  Peter,  330. 

 ,  convent  of,  309,388. 

 John,  prior  of,  326. 

 ,  John  Koxton,  prior  of,  309. 

 ,  Thomas  Gylys,  prior  of,  329,  330. 

Dunster,  Donstar,  co.  Somerset,  65,  174,  194, 

204,  344,  364,  473,  522. 

 ,  lord  of.    See  Herbert. 

Dunstone,  co.  Devon,  331. 

Duntisborne,  Dontesburn,  co.  Gloucester,  448, 

453,  454. 

 Abbots,  453. 

 Hotot,  453. 

 Rouse,  448,  453. 

Dunton,  co.  Bedford,  485. 

Dunton  Waylett,  Dounton  Weylate,  co.  Essex, 

42,  585. 

Dunwich,  co.  Suffolk,  Edmund  Wale,  dean  of, 
362. 

Duppa,  John,  440. 

Durant,  Duraunt,  John,  482. 

 ,  William,  303,  375. 

Duras,  lord  of    See  Dureford. 
Duraunt.    Sec  Durant. 

Dureford,  Galiard  <le,  lord  of  Duras  and 
Blanquefort,  285,  342,  356,  .506,  511, 
536,  542,  551. 

Durem,  John,  baron  of  the  Exchequer,  61, 
229. 

Durham,  Derbam,  17,  392. 

 ,  mint  at,  150. 

  ..,  diocese  of,  295. 

 ,  bishopric  of,  219,  490,  522. 

 bishop  of.    See  Bothe. 

 county  of,  sheriff  of.    See  Athirton. 

Darke,  Henry,  429. 

Dursley,  co.  Gloucester,  118,  262,  271. 
Durston,  John,  581. 
Dutch,  524. 

  Hanze.    See  Hanse  Almain. 

Dutton,  Peter,  491. 

  Roger,  of  Dutton,  497,  524,  526, 

572. 

Duxford,  Dukkesworth,  co.  Cambridge,  9. 
Dwely,  Roger,  .'573. 
Dyer,  John,  434,  580. 

 ,  Robert,  160,381. 

Dygas,  Kenclra,  111,  132,  188,  289,  407,  490, 
615. 

Dygby.    See  Digby. 

Dygges,  Digges,  John,  288,  571,  618. 

 ,  Richard,  302.] 

 Thomas,  219. 

Dygonet,  John,  200,  573. 

Dyk,  William,  parson  of  Doddinghurst,  295. 

Dyke,  Henry,  395. 

  And  see  Dike. 

96186. 


Dykes,  Alexander,  230. 
Dykson,  Robert,  327. 

 ,  Thomas,  325. 

Dyley,  348. 

Dymille,  co.  Salop,  192. 
Dymmer,  Philip,  340. 
Dymmok,  Andrew,  422,  424. 

 ,  John,  322. 

 ,  ,  of  Friskeney,  252. 

 ,  Margaret,  2S6,  336,  337. 

 ,  Robert,  286,  336,  337. 

 ,  Thomas,  213,  218,  297,  336,  337, 

621. 

Dymock,  Dymmoke,  co.  Gloucester,  575. 
Dynant.    See  Dinant. 
Dynbigh.    See  Denbigh. 
Dyneley,  M^illiam,  182. 

 ,  ,  Anne  his  wife,  182. 

Dyngley,  Roger,  573. 

Dynham,  Charles,  55,  219,  220,  351,  403,  490, 
491,  495,  552,  612. 

 ,  Joan,  308. 

 ,  John,  12,  60,  154,  376,  427. 

 ,  .Joan  his  wife,  154. 

 ,  lord  of,  21,  102,  103,  127,  173, 

176,  195,  196,  205,  217,  219,  220,  287, 
299-302,  317,  351,  379,  464,  490,  527, 
558,  559,  612,  614,  615,  629,  6'jrt. 
 ,  sheriff  of  Devon,  235. 

   ,  Elizabeth  his  wife,  21. 

 ,  Roger,  55,  351,  403,  628. 

Dynt,  John,  119. 

Dynyell,  Simon,  115. 

Dyonyse,  Martin,  362. 

Dyrham,  John,  608. 

Dysforth.    See  Dishforth. 

Dysney,  William,  620. 

Dysse.    See  Diss. 

Dytton.    See  Dittou. 

Dyve,  John,  15,  30,  56,  70,  170,  194,349,405, 
623. 


E. 

Eagle,  Egyll  by  Lincoln,  co.  Lincoln,  316. 
Eaking,  Ekcryng,  Eykeryng,  co.  Nottingham, 

17,  125,  423. 
Ealdland,  prebend  of,  590. 
Eardington,  Erdyngton,  co.  Salop,  prebend  of, 

184. 

Earith  Bridge,  Eritbbriggc,  co.  Cambridge, 
169,  170. 

Earlham,  Erlham,  co.  Norfolk,  149,  487. 

Earl's  Barton,  Barton  Pyncanye,  co.  North- 
ampton, 291. 

Earl's  Colne,  CO.  Essex,  318,  543,  547,  563 
.567. 


690 


GENERAL  INDEX. 


Earshani,  Ersham,  co.  Norfolk,  431,  539. 
 ,  hundred  of,  539. 

Eastbourne,  Estbourne,  co.  Sussex,  17,  125, 
423. 

East  Church,  Estchirch,  Isle  of  Sheppy,  co. 
Kent,  92. 

Easter,  High,  Highester,  co.  Essex,  290. 

 ,  Good,  Godestre,  318. 

Easterlings,  351,  353. 

East  Hall,  Esthall  [in  Ivlurston],  co.  Kent, 
391. 

 ,  Esthalle  by  Chellesfeld,  co.  Kent, 

480. 

Easthampstead,  Esthamstede,  co.  Berks,  43, 
118. 

Eastheath,  Estheth,  co.  Surrey,  308. 
Easthorpe,  Esthorp,  co.  Leicester,  27,  517. 
Eastleach,  Eatlacche,  co.  Gloucester,  603. 
Eastlound,  Estlande,  co.  Lincoln,  157. 
Eastnor,  Estmore,  co.  Hereford,  102. 
Easton,  Eston,  co.  Gloucester,  54. 

 ,  CO.  Huntingdon,  575. 

 ,  CO.  Suffolk,  110. 

Easton    Hall,    Eston    Hall    (in  Belchamp 
Walter),  co.  Essex,  297,  560. 

Easton  Neston,  Estneston,  co.  Northampton, 
271. 

Eastry,  co.  Kent,  hundred  of,  301. 
Eaststoke,  Estoke,  co.  Southampton,  94. 
Eathorne,  Etheron  (in  Mabe),  co.  Cornwall, 
297,  560. 

Eaton  Bray,  Eyton,  co.  Bedford,  235. 

 Hastings,  Eton  Hastyuges,  co.  Berks, 

80. 

 Socon,  Eton,  co.  Bedford,  227,  253, 

596. 

 Constantine,  co.  Salop,  521. 

Eaves  Green,  Evesgrene,  co.  Lancaster,  307, 
419. 

Ebbtrton.    See  Ibberton. 
Ebbesham.    See  Epsom. 
Ebrington,  Ebrighton,  Ebnrton,  co.  Gloucester, 
99. 

Eccles  [co.  Norfolk],  86. 

Ecclesfield,  Hekelesfeld,  co.  York,  362. 

Echj^ngham,  Etchyngham,  John,  345. 

 ,  Margaret  his  wife,  345. 

.„  ,  Thomas,  196,  199,  247,249,  302,571, 

573,  633. 

 ,  ,  sheriff  of  Surrey,  548. 

Eckington,  Ekyngton,  co.  Derby,  431. 

 ,  CO.  Worcester,  102,  470. 

Eddryngton,  Adam,  214,  277. 

 ,  Baton,  214. 

 ,  Thomas.  214. 

Edelmeton.    See  Edmonton. 
Eden  river,  co.  (!!uuiberland,  556,  557. 
Edenbridge,  Edyngbreggo,  Kent,  435. 
Edeuhall,  co.  Cumberland,  215. 

Edenham,  co.   Lincoln,  19,  310,  420,  518, 
523. 


Edenham,  Eichard,  bishop  of  Bangor  [1464- 

96],  134. 
Ederyngham,  John,  283. 
Edgbastou,  Egebaston,  co.  Warwick,  10. 
Edgefield,  Eggefeld,  co.  Norfolk,  508. 
Edgeware,  Eggeware,   co.  Middlesex,  543, 

567. 
Edgreynes,  170. 

Ediall,  Henry,  parson  of  Little  Laver,  393- 
Edinburgh,  in  Scotland,  409. 
Edingdon,  Edyndon  [co.  Wilts],  80. 
Edingworth,  co.  Somerset,  39. 
Edisworth.    See  Edworth. 
Edlaston,  co.  Chester,  332. 
Edmond,  Robert,  286. 

 ,  Thomas,  225,  381. 

Edmonson,  John,  504. 

Edmoiiton,  Edelmeton,  co.  Middlesex,  3,  26, 
517. 

Edmund,  earl  of  Kent,  uncle  of  Edward  IIL, 
92,  393. 

 ,  earl  of  llutland,  the  king's  brother, 

42,  46,  67,  69,  131,  192,  584. 
Edward  L,  king  of  England,  471. 

 ,  letters  patent  of,  134,  164,  425. 

 ,  charters  of,  14,  17,  34,  63,  115,  122, 

134-136,  237,  369-371,  376,  398,  425, 

459,  465,  469,  478,  539. 

 ,  charters  of,  when  prince,  35. 

Edward  IL,  100,  102,  312,  559. 

 ,  letters  patent  of,    134,    188,  358, 

370. 

 ,  charters  of,  63,  99,  112,  136,  237 

369,  398,  459,  539. 
 ,   ,  when  prince  of  Wales,  122, 

369. 

Edward  III.,  11,  16,  32,  37,  48-50,  63,  70, 
82,  92,  94,  100,  112,  114,  117,  125, 
133,  136,  150,  152,  159,  163,  175, 
182,  189,  210,  232,  233,  235,  239, 
280,  295,  305,  315,  331,  365,  367, 
371,  389,  393,  412,  414,  426,  450, 
455,  459,  467,  507,  586,  590. 

 ,  roll  of,  90,  92,  130,  235. 

 ,  letters  patent  of,  11,  68,  111,  112, 

117,  134-136,  164,  188,  311,  358,  371, 
479,  521,  539,  555,  561,  592. 

 ,  chirtersof,  14,34,  63,  67,  115,119, 

122,  134,  136,  188,  237,  328,  343, 
369-371,  423,  424,  426,  459,  465,  538, 
568. 

Edward,  prince  of  Wales,  duke  of  Cornwall, 
earl  of  Chester  and  Flint,  son  of 
Edward  IV.,  273,  358,  361,  392,  401, 
414,  417,  420,  429,  443,  449,  451, 
455,  460,  471,  484,  491,  542,  543, 
569,  574,  592,  605. 

 ,  grant  to,  365. 

 ,  keeper  of  the  realm,  534,  535. 

 ,  attests  letters  patent,  499. 

 ,  council  of,  366. 

 ,  son  of  Henry  VI.,  241,  252,  323. 

 [son  of  Edward  III.],  388,  415. 


GENERAL  INDEX. 


691 


Edward,  prince  of  Wales,  letters  patent  of,  134. 
Edward,  John,  542. 

 ,  Koger,  573. 

 ,  Thomas,  199,  285,  326. 

 ,   ,    abbot    of    Waltham  Holy 

Cross,  469. 

 ,  William,  mayor  of  London,  332, 

359. 

Edward  ap  David,  467. 
Edwardes,  Edward,  408. 
Edwardis,  Thomas,  224. 
Edwardson,  Roger,  515. 

Edwinstowe,  Edyngstowe,  Hedeustowe,  co. 

Nottingham,  130,  243,441,482. 
Ed  worth,  Edisworth,  co.  Bedford,  327. 
Edy,  John,  584. 

 ,  Thomas,  477. 

Edyes,  Thomas,  620. 
Edyudon.    See  Edingdon. 
Edyngbregge.    See  Edenbridge. 
Edyngham,  John,  283,  536. 
Edyngstowe.    See  Edwinstowe. 
Edysleght.    See  Iddesleigh. 
EfiFord,  CO.  Cornwall,  58. 
Egebaston.    See  Edgbaston. 
Egerley,  Hugh,  445. 
Egerton,  Hugh,  287,  351,  407,  630. 
Egeston.    See  Exton. 

Eggecombe,  Agecombe,  Richard,  399,  403, 
404,  491,  610. 

 ,   escheator  of  Cornwall,  95. 

 ,  Thomas,  30. 

Eggefeld.    See  Edgefield. 
Eggemanton.    See  Egmanton. 
Eggeware.    See  Edgeware. 
Egleston,  393. 
Egliston,  Thomas,  432. 
Egmanton,  John,  428,  430. 

Egremond,   William,  bishop    of  Dromore 
239. 

 ,   ,  parson  of  Gosfortli,  239,  267. 

 ,  parson  of  Richmond,  239. 

Egremont,  co.  Cumberland,  312. 

Egyll.    See  Eagle. 

Eirithbrigge.    See  Earith  Bridge. 

Rkeryng.    See  Eakring. 

Ekynton.    See  Eckington. 

Eland,  Little,  co.  Northumberland,  523. 

 ,  Fount.    See  Ponteland. 

Eland,  William,  244,  354,  378,  407,  517,  530, 
572,  636. 

Elbarly,  William,  272. 

Elbys,  John  dc,  ambassador  of  the  king  of 
Portugal,  379. 

Elder,  John,  396,  437,  506,  602. 

Elderbeke,  Nicholas,  250,  286. 

Eldyrgate,  John,  422, 


Elections,  ecclesiastical,  licences  for,  14,  15, 
23,  35,  107,  108,  115,  119,  173,  183, 
212,  230,  231,  235,  239,  260,  266,  278, 
295,  309,  328,  332,  337,  342,  344,  359, 
387,  388,  394,  395,  397,  402,  440,  448, 
454,  461,  468,  475,  476,  544,  558,  564, 
590,  595,  604. 

 ,   ,  royal  assent  to,  15,  16,  23,  107, 

115,  116,  179,  181,  228,  231,  239,  240, 
241,  263,  265,  272,  283,  328,  329,  342- 
344,  365,  387,  388,  392,  418,  469,  475, 
477,  554,  594. 

Eleigh,  Illeigh,  co.  .Suflfolk,  89. 

Elerky,  co.  Cornwall,  457,  529. 

Elham,  co.  Kent,  79. 

Elias  the  chaplain,  197. 

Elinbrigge,  Elyngbrygge,  Ellyngbrygge, 
John,  246,  248,  351,  632. 

Elinestowe.    See  Elstow. 

Elingworth.    See  Illingworth. 

Elizabeth,  queen  of  Edward  IV.,  14,  16,21 
25,  39,  41,  42,  44,  46,  49,  62,  67,  86, 
88,  9J,  111-113,  125,  130,  131,  138, 
153-155,  158,  162,  164,  173,  175,  190, 
192,  209,  265,  280,  283,  292,  304,  306, 
311,  336,  342,  358,  361,  365,  366,  372, 
374,  .392,  394,  396,  399,  400,  412,  414, 
417,  420,  425,  443,  447,  449,  45.}-457, 
460,469,  471,484-486,  507,  514,  519, 
528,  531,  538,  542,  543,  547,  566-569, 
582,  584,  596,  597,  600,  604. 

   ,  grants  to,  64,  110,  115,  360, 

419,  539,  540,  543,  561,  562,  566,  604. 

 ,  secretary  of.    See  Gunthorpe. 

 ,  the  princess,  daughter  of  Edward  IV., 

44,  110. 

Ellerton,  co.  York,  4. 

EUerton.    See  Elryngton. 

Ellesfeld,  co.  Worcester,  590. 

EUesmere,  co.  Salop,  hundred  of,  398. 

Ellesmerc,  Edward,  344,  398,  533. 

Ellinghara,  Elyngham,  co.  Norfolk,  19 1. 

 ,  Little,  515. 

Ellington,  co.  Northumberland,  508. 

Ellyngbrygge.    See  Elinbrigge. 

Elmere,  Richard,  380. 

Elmerugge,  Roger,  117. 

 ,  sheriff  of  Oxford  and  Berks, 

90. 

Elmes,  John,  12. 

Elmesthorpe,  Aylmesthorpe,  co.  Leicester,  30. 
Elmet,  William,  236. 
Elmham,  John,  93,  387. 
Elmhurst,  co.  StaflFord,  16. 
Elmstead,  Elmestede,  co.  Essex,  255. 

 ,  CO.  Kent,  568. 

Elmys,  Walter,  584. 
Elnestowc.    See  Elstow. 
Eluoth,  Edward,  9. 

Elrington,  Elryngton,  Ellerton,  Eltheryngton 
John,  127,  320,  321,  324,  326,  352 
405,  408,  463,  546,  571,  583,  622,  C33' 
634. 


X  X  2 


692  GENERAL  INDEX. 


Elrington,  John,  keeper  of  the  hanaper,  396, 
398,  441,  537. 

 ,  ,  treasurer  of    the  household, 

441,  477,  489,  537,  568,  596. 

 ,  the  younger,  349. 

 ,  Simon,  coroner  of  Middlesex,  329. 

 ,  Thomas,  412,  464,  548. 

Elstow,  Eline.stowe,  Elnestowe  [co.  Bedford], 
9. 

 ,  Elizabeth  Hasilden,  abbess  of,  381. 

Elstree,  Idelstre,  co.  Hertford,  443. 
Elsworth,  Ellesworth,  co.  Cambridge,  6. 
Eltham,  co.  Kent,  70,  91,  239,  348,  389,  544, 
555. 

 ,  charters  dated  at,  34,  369,  508. 

Eltheryngton.    See  Elrington. 
Eltoft,  Henry,  55. 

Eltonhede,  John,  30,  48,  218,  349,  405,517, 
623. 

Elveden,  Elvesden,  Elvynden,  Henry,  47. 

 ,   ,  the  elder,  369. 

Elvington,  co.  York,  483,  486,  487. 
Elvynden.    See  Elveden. 
Elwold,  Elwalde,  John,  147,  214. 

.,  ,  ,  Margaret  his  wife,  147. 

Ely,  CO.  Cambridge,  1 69. 

 ,  diocese  of,  174,  332. 

 ,  bishop   of.    See   Grey;   Bourchier ; 

Longo  Campo. 

 ,  prior  of,  507. 

Ely,  John,  203. 
Elynden,  Christopher,  300. 
Elyngbrygge.    See  Elinbrigge. 
Elyngham.    See  EUingham. 
Elj'ngham,  John,  210. 
Elynor,  William,  325. 
Elyot,  Christopher,  315. 

 ,  John,  171,  203. 

 ,  Eichard,  575. 

 William,  171. 

Elys,  Guy,  540. 

 ,  Henry,  367. 

 ,  Nicholas,  29. 

 ,  Thomas,  70,  71,  197,  367  502  579 

 ,  William,  434. 

Elyver,  William,  149. 

Emme,  Richard,  74. 

Emot,  Thomas,  104. 

Empingham  [co.  Rutland],  286,  508. 

Emson,  Richard,  624. 

Enault  de  la  Pappe,  Mynyn,  201,  217,  221. 

Enderby,  Eudreby,  John,  400,  595. 

 ,  Matilda  his  wife,  400. 

 ,  Richard,  486,  570. 

Endeston.    See  Yeauston. 

Enfeld.    See  Enville. 

Enfield,  co.  Middlesex,  450. 

Engeham,  co.  Kent,  283,  546. 

Engeham,  Alan,  283,  546. 

 ,   ,  Agnes  his  wife,  283,  546. 


Engeham,  John,  283,  536,  546,547. 
Englewode.    See  Inglewood. 
Englyssh,  John,  74. 
Engoef,  David,  104. 
Engof,  Martin,  1. 
Enhale.    See  Yen  Hall. 
Enville,  Enfeld,  Enveld  [co.  Stafford],  130, 
398. 

Enzennat,  Yvo,  521. 

Eppeworth.    See  Epworth. 

Epping,  CO.  Essex,  536. 

Epsom,  Ebbesham,  co.  Surrey,  5. 

Epworth,  Eppeworth,  in  the  isle  of  Axholme, 

CO.  Lincoln,  157,  539. 
 ,  prior  and  convent  of,  135,  136,  157, 

158,  585. 

 ,  John  Moreby,  prior  of,  136. 

 ,  Richard,  prior  of,  157. 

Epyswych.    See  Ipswich. 
Erchesfout.    See  Urohfont. 
Erdyngton.    See  Eardington. 
Erdyngton,  Thomas,  43. 

,  ,  ,  Joyce  his  wife,  43. 

Eresby,  co.  Lincoln,  180,  508. 
Eresham.    See  Earsham. 
Erington,  William,  236. 
Erithbrigge.    See  Earith  Bridge. 
Erie,  John,  582. 

 Peter,  331. 

Erleswod,  co.  Northampton,  184. 
Erley,  Richard,  603. 
Erlham.    See  Earlham. 
Erlycte,  Thomas,  231. 
Ermeswet,  co.  Norfolk,  191. 
Ermewe.    See  Arnemuiden. 
Krneley,  William,  552. 
Erpingham,  co.  Norfolk,  22,  530. 

 .,  South,  hundred  of,  93,  387. 

Ersham.    See  Earsham. 

Erythorne  [?Eryholme  on  Tees],  co.  York, 
119. 

Escales,  Roger  de,  136. 

Esclusham,  co.  Salop,  192. 

Escryk,  John,  381. 

Esemangcr,  Edward,  520. 

Eske,  CO.  York,  428. 

Essendon,  Esenden,  co.  Hertford,  1 14. 

Essex,  county  of,  56,  61,  87,  88,  100,  1U2, 
106,  127,  169,  180,  192,  195,  218,  222, 
232,  242,  248,  249,  252,  273,  278,  287, 
288,  290,  329,  337,  344,  345,  348,  351, 
376,  407,  416,  421,428,  430,  462,  490- 
492,  494,  496,  509,  524,  525,  54.5,  548, 
552,  590,  594. 

 ,  sheriff  of,  56,  92,  252,  351", 

407,  490-492,  494,  525,  605. 

  And  see  Raynford;  Writell ; 

Ree. 

 ,   ,  escheator  in,  98,  107,  186,  265, 

373,  391,  400,  597. 
 ,   And  see  Braughyng  ;  Ree, 


GENERAL  INDEX. 


693 


Essex,  county  of,  outlawries  in,  5,75,  91,  115, 
142,  202,  321,  324,  327,  381,  395,  501, 
578,  580. 

 ,  subsidy  and  ulnage  of  cloth  in, 

329,  348,  478. 
 ,  ,  commissions  of  the  peace  in, 

613. 

 ,  forest  of,  131,  297,  528. 

 earl  of.    See  Bourchier. 

Essex,  John,  68,  69. 

 ,  Alice  his  wife,  68. 

 ,  Dan  Robert,  317. 

 ,  William,  248,  463,  514,  541,  622. 

Essheroges,  co.  Devon,  466. 
Esshetisford.    See  Asbford. 
Est,    See  East. 
Est,  Henry,  8. 

 ,  John,  318,  324. 

 ,  Robert,  8. 

Estbury,  36. 

Est  Cantok.    See  Quautockshead. 
Estcote,  Robert,  403,  442. 

 William,  403. 

Estdoniland.    See  Donyland,  East. 
Esteney,  John,  abbot  of  Westminster,  472, 

474,  601. 
Esteryngton.    See  Torrington. 
Estfeld,  William,  358,  382. 
Esthall  in  Horbling,  co.  Lincoln,  560. 
Esthanyfeld.    See  Hanniugfield. 
Estheron.    See  Eathorne. 
Esthorp.    See  Easthorpe. 
Estlacche.    See  Eastleach. 
Estluccombe,  co.  Devon,  148. 
Estmore.    See  Eastnor. 
Estmylle,  co.  Southampton,  155. 
Estneston.    See  Easton  Neston. 
Estois,  William  de,  163. 
Eston,  CO.  Gloucester,  224. 

  And  see  Easton. 

Eston,  Robert,  475. 

 ,  Thomas,  486. 

Estrannemere.    See  Cranmore. 
Estryngton.    See  Torrington. 
Estwykeham.    See  Wickham. 
Esyngton,  John,  240. 
Etal,  CO.  Northumberlaud,  282. 
Etchyngham.    See  Echyugham. 
Etheron.    See  Eathorne. 
Eton,  CO.  Buckingham,  287,  394. 

 ,  college  of,  66,  328,  394. 

 ,  provost  and  fellows  of,  47  48, 

62,  551,  553. 
 ,  ..  ,  William  Westbury,  provost  of, 

62,  73,  328,  394,  553. 

  And  see  Eaton. 

Eton,  Christopher,  432. 

 ,  John,  440,  479. 

 Roger,  294. 

 ,   ,  parson  of  Bletchley,  399. 


Eton,  Thomas,  vicar  of  Wirksworth,  384. 

Etton,  CO.  York,  21. 

Eure,  Henry,  200,  408,  637. 

 ,  Robert,  143. 

 ,  William,  200,  349,  408,  637. 

 ,William,  archdeacon  of  Salisbury,  421. 

 ,   ,  warden    of   the    hospital  of 

St.  Leonard,  York,  421. 
Eures,  William,  199. 
Eurmayn,  Thomas,  579. 
Eustace,  Eustas,  William,  71,  263. 
Euyas,  John,  249. 
Everard,  Edward,  223. 

 ,  Thomas,  323. 

Everdon,  Great,  co.  Northampton,  225. 

Everdon,  Thomas,  350,  406,  636. 

Everle,  co.  York,  569. 

Everley,  Richard,  80,  327,  384,  581. 

Eversden,  Eveiysdon,  Great,  co.  Cambridge, 

499. 

Eversley,  co.  Southampton,  190. 
Everton,  co.  Huntingdon,  8,  81. 
Evertou,  Thomas,  218. 

 ,  William,  289. 

Every ngham,  Henry,  142. 

 ,  John,  361. 

Evesgrene.    See  Eaves  Green. 
Evesham,  co.  Worcester,  51,  475. 

 ,  monastery  of,  15,  35. 

 ,   ,  abbot  and  convent  of,  67. 

 ,  ,  abbot  of,  92. 

 ,   ,  Richard,  abbot  of,  67. 

   ,  Thomas,  abbot  of,  68. 

 William,  abbot  of,  67. 

 ,  ,  Richard  Pembroke,  abbot  of, 

15,  35. 

 ,  Richard  Hawkesbury,  abbot  of, 

35. 

Evesham,  Nicholas,  317. 

Evirdon,  Roger,  274. 

Evon  Swyudou,  co.  Wilts,  541. 

Evrc.    See  Eure. 

Evry ngham,  Thomas,  114. 

Evyas,  Humphrey,  391. 

EvyngtOM,  William,  37,  133,  267,  269,  514. 

Evys,  Richard,  467. 

Evys  Llannoc,  priory  of.    Sec  I'enmon. 
Ewalde,  John,  277. 
Ewden,  co.  York,  439. 
Ewen,  Eleanor,  114. 

 ,  Master  Richard,  archdeacon  of  Lin- 
coln, 81. 

Eworthy,  Y'worthy,  co.  Devon,  76. 
Ewre.    See  Eure. 
Excestre.    See  Exeter. 

Exchequer,  11,  24,  26,  67,  70,  86,  117,  125, 
128,  131,  133,  135,  151,  160,  162,  173, 
180,  18."),  194,  226,  227,  234,  2;J6,  270, 
272,  293,  309,  329,  333,  338,  347,  360, 
376,  390,  419,  437,  449,  467,  48 1,  505, 
522,  547,  550,  551,  556,  559. 


694 


GENERAL  INDEX. 


Exchequer,  chancellor  of.  See  Fowler  ; 
Thwaytes. 

 ,  treasurer  of.     See  Blount ;   Grey  ; 

Langstrother  ;  Tiptoft ;    Bourchier  ; 

Hungerford. 
 ,  chief  baron  of.     See  lUyngworth  ; 

Urswyk. 

 .barons  of,  32,  118,  176,  211,  229, 

264,  270,  427,  522,  532,  556,  574. 

  And    see    Durein  ;     Ingoldesby  ; 

Kouclyff ;  Wolseley. 

 ,  second  baron  of,  38. 

  A7id  see  Clerk. 

 ,  third  baron  of.    See  Rouclyff. 

,  ,  fourth  baron  of.    See  Ingoldesby  ; 

Wolseley. 

 ,  chamberlain  of,  161,  211,  229,  311. 

  And  see  Neville  ;  Tiptoft. 

 ,  treasurer  and  chamberlains  of,  156, 

402,  439,  440,  512,  545,  559,  565,  600, 

601. 

 ,  treasurer  and  barons  of,  188,  489. 

 ,  remembrancer  of,  541. 

 ,  tellers  of,  458. 

 ,  messengers  of,  113,  334. 

 ,  rolls  and  memoranda  of,  189,  405, 

429. 

 ,  receipt  of,  19,  33,  36,  39,  43,  49,  52, 

53,  59,  61,  66,  82,  85,  92,  94,  96,  98, 
110,  113,  125,  126,  132,  151,  154,  159- 
161,  165,  174,  185-187,  205,  208,  218, 
262,  273,  276-278,  281-283,  303,  311, 
312,  334,  337,  338,  344,  362,  389,  394, 
415,  439,  440,  445,  460,  466,  471,  496, 
545,  547,  558,  585. 

Exe  river,  17,  280,  457,  529. 

Exemptions  from  juries,  &c.,  12,  19,  37,  84, 
88,  89,  94,  97,  106,  108,  109,  118,  177, 
485,  564,  588. 

 from  Parliament,  109. 

Exeter,  co.  Devon,  60,  75,  114,  169,  187,  250, 
280,  281,  292,  340,  341,  359,  368,  440, 
481,  493,  523,  574,  576,  599. 

 ,  mayor     of.       See     Calwodeley ; 

Jermyn. 

 ,  St.  Sidwell's  fee,  75. 

 ,  St.  Nicholas,  prior  of,  187. 

 ,  port  of,  11,17,34,59,  91,  114,  154, 

167,  184,  209,  216,  231,  263,  268,  269, 
468,  511,  521,  543,  554,  555,  584,  587, 
592,  593,  603. 

 ,  diocese  of,  212,  213,  264,  358,  376, 

396,  479. 

 ,  bishop  of.    See  Bothe. 

 ,  cathedral  of,  374. 

 ,  ,  dean  of.    See  Webber. 

 ,  letters  patent  dated  at,  207,  208,  219, 

611. 

Exhall,  CO.  Warwick,  158. 
Exhall,  Bartholomew,  171. 
Exil,  John,  148. 

Exiland,  Exyland,  co.  Devon,  17,  60,  280, 

457,  529. 
Exleby,  Exylby,  co.  York,  119. 


Exininster,  co.  Devon,  582. 

Exmoor,  co.  Devon,  forest  of,  85,  205. 

Exmouth,  CO.  Devon,  60,  476,  574. 

 port  of,  113,  263,  548. 

Exning,  Ixnynge,  co.  SulFolk,  93. 

Exnyng,  Henry,  250. 

Exon,  Eichard,  525. 

Exston.    See  Extou. 

Exton,  Egeston,  co.  Rutland,  78. 

 ,  CO.  Somerset,  193,   194,  200,  330, 

364,  457,  522,  530. 
Exton,  Exston,  Richard,  35,  89,  98,  388,  493, 

495. 

Exylby.    See  Exleby. 
Eyam,  Eyham,  co.  Derby,  146. 
EyeoU,  Thomas,  143. 
Eyer,  Thomas,  6. 

 ,  William,  143. 

  And  see  Eyre. 

Eyerby,  John,  166,  208. 
Eyhorne,  Ayhorne,  co.  Kent,  hundred  of 
302. 

Eyke,  co.  Suffolk,  110. 
Eykeryng.    See  Eakring. 
Eyles,  William,  435. 
Eylmyn,  Thomas,  318. 
Eynesbury,  co.  Huntingdon,  485. 

  Hardwick,  Hardewyk  by  Awnsley 

CO.  Huntingdon,  141. 
Eynesham,  V/illiam,  153. 

  Afid  see  Eynsam. 

Eynons,  John,  77. 

 ,  ,  Rose  his  wife,  77. 

Eynsam,  William,  44. 

  Aiid  see  Eynesham. 

Eynsford,  Aynesford,  co.  Kent,  75,  77. 
Eynsham,  abbot  and  convent  of,  519. 

 ,  William,  abbot  of,  519. 

 ,  Robert  Faryngdon,  abbot  of,  74. 

Eyntree.    See  Aintree. 
Eyre.    See  Aire. 
Eyre,  John,  419. 

 ,  Ralph,  2. 

 ,  Richard,  564. 

 ,  Robert,  350,  408,  419,  611. 

 ,  Simon,  mayor  of  London,  68. 

 ,  Thomas,  163,  224,  611. 

 ,  William,  441. 

  And  see  Eyer. 

Eyres,  John,  49,  331. 
Eyssh.    See  Ash. 
Eyton.    See  Eaton. 
Eyton,  John,  440. 

 ,  Roger,  284. 

  And  see  Eton. 

Eyworth,  co.  Bedford,  485. 


GENERAL  INDEX. 


695 


F. 

Fabyan,  John,  144. 

Faceby,  co.  York,  483,  486,  487. 

Facy,  John,  109,  326. 

Fairfax,  Fayrefax,  Guy,  51,  102,  2.51,  382, 
406,  408,  458,  523,  530,  r,58,  608,  615, 
616,  626,  627,  630,  636,  638. 

 ,  Richard,  593. 

 ,  William,  28,  170,  620. 

Fairfield,  Fcyrefeld,  co.  Kent,  302. 

Fairs,  grant  of,  17,  95,  422,  438. 

Fakenham  Aspes,  co.  Suffolk,  118. 

Faldiugworth,  co.  Lincoln,  363. 

Faldyngworth,  William,  202. 

Fallan,  William,  proctor  of  Goddeshous, 
Cambridge,  130. 

Fallapit,  Fale  Pittc,  co.  Devon,  60. 

FaUesley.    See  Fawsley. 

Fallston,  Fallerdeston,  Farleston,  co.  Wilts, 
524,  533,  534,  584. 

Falmay,  George,  577,  580. 

Falmouth,  552. 

Fal Wesley.    See  Fawsley. 

Fane,  John,  580. 

Fannaken,  Fangulpyn,  Tyse,  391. 

Farcet,  Farsetbrigge,  co.  Huntingdon,  170. 

Fareley.    See  Farleigh. 

Fareley,  Thomas,  102. 

Faremau,  John,  81. 

Farendon.    See  Farrendon. 

Faresley.    See  Fazeley. 

Fareway.    See  Farway. 

Faringdon,  co.  Berks,  291,  449. 

Farlam  [co.  Cumberland],  215. 

Farleigh,  Fareley,  co.  Somerset,  139. 

  Hungerford,    Hungerford  Farlegh> 

CO.  Somerset,  151. 
 ,  Monktou,  Monkenfarlegh,  co.  Wilts, 

priory  of,  97,  313. 

 ,  prior  of,  63,  328. 

 ,  Dau  John  Stratton,  prior  of,  97. 

 ,  Dan  John  Shrouesbury,  prior  of,  97. 

 ,  Dau  Thomas  Grove,  prior  of,  313. 

Farleston.    See  Fallstou. 
Farley,  John,  211,  254. 

 ,  Dan  William,  abbot  of  St.  Peter's, 

Gloucester,  328,  333. 
Farmar,  John,  500. 

Farmborough,  Frauburgh,  Frembourgh,  co. 
Somerset,  39. 

Farnham,  Fernuam,  co.  Dorset,  390,  534. 

 ,  CO.  Surrey,  73,  125. 

Farnham  Royal,  Farnham  Verdou,  co.  Buck- 
ingham, 397,  541,  562. 

Farnham,  John,  383. 

Faroe,  Farrey,  island  of,  245. 


Farrendon  with  Balderton,  prebend  of,  296. 
Farrey.    See  Faroe. 

Farringdon,  Faryngdon  [co.  Devon],  61, 
481. 

Farsetbrigge.    See  Farcet. 

Farway,  Fayreway,  co.  Devon,  156,  174,  189, 

280,  457,  52D. 
Faryngdon,  Christopher,  61. 
 ,  John,  481. 

 ,  Robert,  abbot  of  Eynsham,  74. 

Faryngton,  William,  426. 
Faseley.    See  Fazeley. 
Fastem,  co.  Wilts,  152. 
Fastolf,  John,  5. 

Faucomberge,  Thomas,  262,  288. 

  And  see  Neville. 

Fauconbrige,  Thomas  the  Bastard  of,  379. 
Faukes,  John,  dean  of  the  free  chapel  of 

St.  George,  Windsor,  U,  234. 

 ,  Thomas,  80. 

Faukoner,  Thomas,  323. 
Faulkbourne,  Faukeburn,  co.  Essex,  466. 
Faunt,  Nicholas,  240. 
Faux,  Henry,  75,  187. 

  And  see  Vaux. 

Faverney,  in  Franche  Comto,  Ferricus  de 

Clugniaco,  archdeacon  of,  83, 
Faversham,  Feversham,  co.  Kent,  83,  101, 

302,  501,  581,  601. 

 ,  hundred  of,  301. 

Fawckeswell,  co.  Bedford,  74. 
Fawsley,  FaUesley,   Falwesley,  co.  North- 
ampton, 531. 

 ,  hundred  of,  92. 

Faxton,  co.  Northampton,  508. 
Faynte,  Feynt,  William,  106,  177. 
Fay  ranter,  WilUam,  10. 
Fayrechild,  John,  200. 
Fayreclough,  Laurence,  599, 
Fayrefax.    See  Fairfax. 
Fayreford,  Alexander,  5. 
Fayrewey.    See  Farway. 
Fayrom,  John,  130, 
Fay  tour,  Thomas,  51. 

Fazeley,  Faresley,  Faseley,  co.  Stafford,  117. 

Featherstoue,  Fedirstaynhagh,  co.  North- 
umberland, 2)4. 

Fcccheroos,  Fleccheroos,  co.  Cumberland, 
506,  513. 

Feckcnham,  Feckyugham,  co.  Worcester, 
304. 

Fedirstaynhagh.    See  Featherstone. 
Fedirstaynhagh,  Richard,  214. 
Fedyon,  John,  323. 
Fegherby,  483,  487. 

Fclborough,  Kelhergh,  co.  Keut,  hundred  of, 
300. 

Felbrigge,  .John,  197. 

Feld,  Felde,  John,  4,  250,  35o,  599. 

.   ,  ,  the  youuger,  286. 

 Richard,  75,  97. 


696 


GENERAL  INDEX. 


Feld,  Thomas,  abbot  of  Burton  on  Trent 

387,  391. 
Felder,  John,  8. 

Feldyke  in  Bingham,  co.  Nottingham,  462. 
Feldyng,  Geoffrey,  149,  204,  223,  257,  385. 

 ,  William,  246,  248,  619. 

Fellawe,  Robert,  428. 

Felmingham,  Fylmyngham,  co.  Norfolk,  78. 
Felowe,  Richard,  167,  202. 

 ,  William,  381. 

Felstead,  co.  Essex,  46,  238. 
Felsted,  William,  516. 
Felson,  John,  320. 
Felton,  John,  228,  236. 

 ,  Thomas  de,  14. 

Feltwell  [co.  Norfolk],  452. 
Feltwell,  Stephen,  389. 
Felwode.    See  Filwood. 
Fen,  John,  191. 
Fencote,  co.  York,  119. 
Fendyk,  Richard,  28,  354,  619. 
Fenhall,  Fennehalle,  co.  Suffolk,  48-J. 
Feniton,  Fyneton,  co.  Devon,  589. 
Fenne,  co.  Devon,  61. 
Fenne,  Henry,  263,  367. 

 ,  Hugh,  7,  53,  98,  250,  283,  546,  573. 

 ,  John,  316,  406. 

 ,  Micholas,  537. 

 ,  Robert,  626. 

 ,  Thomas,  parson  of  Borley,  411. 

Fennell,  Funell,  William,  317-319. 

Fen  Stanton,  Fenystanton,  co.  Huntingdon, 

147,  599. 
Fenton,  co.  Lincoln,  508. 

 ,  CO.  York,  412. 

Fenton.    See  Venton. 
Fenyngley.    See  Finningley. 
Fenys,  Fynes,  James,  116. 

 ,   ,  lord  of  Say,  116. 

 ,  Emelina,  lady  of  Say,  116. 

 ,  John,  196,  247,  249,  405,  505,  633. 

 ,  Richard,  633. 

 ,   ,  lord  Dacre,  196,    199,  247, 

249,  283,  351,  366,  462,  469,  490,  534, 
550,  606,  615,  616,  619-621,  627,  632- 
634,  636, 

 ,   ,  constable  of  the  Tower  of 

London,  412. 

 ,  Robert,  606,  631. 

 ,  Thomas,  588. 

 ,  William,  of  Say  of  Sele,  102,  116, 

505,  618,  629. 

 ,  ,  lord  Say,  190. 

Ferariis,  Henry  de,  424. 
Fercus,  Elias,  1. 
Ferdell,  Walter,  4. 

 ,   ,  Joan,  his  wife,  4. 

Ferstield,  Feishfeld,  co.  Norfolk,  191. 
Feryby.    See  Fereby. 
Ferys.    See  Ferry s. 


Fereby,  Feriby,  Feryby,  John,  40,  74,  167  , 

199,  359,  583,  587,  638. 
 ,    escheator  in  the  county  of 

York,  103. 
Ferelowe,  Laurence,  218. 
Feriby.    See  Fereby. 
Ferlard,  John,  76. 

Fermons,  in  King's  Norton,  co.  Worcester, 
536. 

Fernnam.    See  Farnham. 
Ferrer,  John,  496. 

Ferrers,  Henry,  18,  19,  123,  352,  407,  602, 
618. 

 ,   ,  Margaret  his  wife,  19,  123. 

 ,  Henry,  sheriff  of  Kent,  187. 

 ,  John,  6,  7,  463. 

 ,  Thomas,  117,  218,348,  606,  634. 

  And  see  Devereux  ;  Grey. 

Ferres,  Henry,  284. 

 ,  John,  288. 

 ,  Thomas,  284,  289,  405. 

Ferrour,  David,  491. 

 ,  Geoffrey,  437. 

 ,  Richard,  214,  277. 

Ferrys,  Ferry,  Ferys,  William,  313,  341,  545. 
Fetherston,  William,  29,  340,  355,  404,  409, 

496. 

 ,  — ,  319. 

Feversham.    See  Faversham. 

Feynt.    See  Faynte. 

Feyrefeld.    See  Fairfield. 

Fifehead  St.  Quintin,  Fifeld  Quintyn,  co. 

Dorset,  293. 
Fifhide.    See  Fyfield. 
Fillingham,  Filyngham,  co.  Lincoln,  164. 
Fillyng,  George,  576. 
FiloU,  John,  39. 

 ,  William,  39. 

Filton,  Fylton,  co.  Gloucester,  578. 
Filwood,  Felwode,  co.  Gloucester.  264. 

 ,  forest  of,  175. 

 ,  CO.  Somerset,  forests  of,  412. 

Filyngham.    See  Fillingham. 
Filzakelly,  Nicholas,  515. 
Finance,  John,  344. 

Finborough,  Fynbergh,  Great,  co.  Suffolk, 
536. 

Fincham,  Fyncheham,  co.  Norfolk,  191. 
Fincham.    See  Fj'ncheham. 
Finchley,  Fyncheley,  co.  Middlesex,  50,  82, 
96,  331. 

Fiudon,  Thyndeu,  co.  Northampton,  500. 
Fingrith,  Fyngryth  in  Blackmore,  co.  Essex 

297,  560. 
Fiukeley  [co.  Southampton],  348. 
Finningley,  Fenyngley,  co.  Nottingham,  503. 
Fissher,  David,  40. 

Fishwick,  Fysshwyk,  co.  Lancaster,  26. 
Fittleton,  Fiteltou,  Fytilton,  co.  Wilts,  41,  93, 

183,  419. 
Fitz,  Fyttys,  co.  Salop,  521. 


GENERAL  INDEX. 


697 


Fiti,  John,  the  elder,  377. 

 ,  ,  the'jouDger,  377. 

FitzAlaD,  William,  earl  of  Arundel,  56,  128, 
170,  196,  199,  219,  220,  247,  249,  287, 
318,  351,  352,  356,  373,  495,  530,  551, 
5C9,  573,  582,  613,  614,  618,  627,  629, 
632,  633,  635. 

 ,   ,  constable  of  Dover  Castle  and 

warden  of  the  Cinque  Ports,  209,  260, 
310,  317,  318,  353,  573. 

Fitzbyrd,  John,  the  elder,  408. 

Fitzelys,  Robert,  472. 

Fitz  Harry,  Thomas,  251,  283,  616. 

Fitz  Henry,  Ralph,  123. 

Fitzherbert,  John,  231,  428,  458,  491,  496, 
611. 

 ,  Nicholas,  284,  350,  518,  611. 

 ,  Ralph,  408,  611. 

 ,  Robert,  576. 

Fitz  Howell,  Hugh,  25. 

 ,  ,  Alice  his  wife,  25. 

Fitz  Hugh,  Edward,  215. 

 ,  Elizabeth,  215. 

 ,  George,  215. 

 ,  Henry,  349. 

 ,  ,  lord  of,  90,  170,  215,  532,  610, 

634,  637. 

 ,  ,  Alice  his  wife,  90,  215,  532. 

 ,  John,  215. 

 ,  Richard,  215,  532,  637. 

 ,  Thomas,  215. 

Fitz,Tames,  John,  29,  350,  406,  628. 

 ,   the  younger,  193,  200. 

 ,  James,  193,  200. 

FitzJohn,  Henry,  225,  255. 

..   John,  225,  255. 

 Louis,  297. 

Fitzlowes,  Louis,  151,  344,  345. 
FitzRichard,  John,  11. 
FitzRobert,  Robert,  the  cider,  540. 

 ,  the  younger,  540. 

 ,   Margaret  his  wife,  540. 

FilzSimoud,  FitzSymond,  Robert,  154,  248. 
FitzWaryn,  Fulk,  427. 

  And  see  Bourchier. 

Fitzwater,  John,  247. 

 ,  William,  82. 

FitzWauter.  See  Ratclyff. 
FitzWilliam,  Edmund,  293. 
 ,  John,  638. 

 ,  escheator    in    the  county  of 

York,  119. 

 ,  Richard,  199,  349,  408,  638. 

 ,  ,  sheriff  of  Lincoln,  185. 

 Thomas,  200,  428. 

 ,  the  elder,'252,  5t9,  621. 

 ,   ,[th(i  younger,.252,  286,294,  354, 

509,  563,  621. 

Flamborough,  co.  York,  409,  418. 

Flamstead,  Flampstede  [co.  Hertford],  286. 


Flanders,  42,  57,  104,  128,  240,  249,  313,  451, 
487,  512,  565,  605. 

Flanesford,  Flaunsworde,  co.  Hereford,  priory 
of,  414. 

Flatewyk.    See  Flitwick. 

Flaunsworde.    See  Flanesford. 

Flaxale,  Nicholas,  253. 

Fleccher,  John,  9. 

 ,  Robert,  255. 

 ,  William,  363,  442. 

Fleet,  Flete,  co.  Kent,  297,  556. 

 ,  CO.  Lincoln,  203. 

 Damarell,  Fleet  Damarle[iaHolbeton], 

CO.  Devon,  32,  137. 

 ,  Marston,  Fletemerstou,  co.  Bucking- 
bam,  326. 

 ,  prison,  12,  16,  20,  21,  38,  44,  51,  52,  72, 

91,  93,  94,  99,  109,  119,  122,  141,  154, 
164,  173,  183,  202,  223,  227,  228,  253, 
263,  320,  362,  364,  380,  389,  400,  434. 
443,  475,  477,  482,  498,  564,  573,  575, 
589. 

 ,  keeper  of,  50. 

Flegg,  East,  Estflegge,  co.  Norfolk,  hundred 
of,  82,  159. 

 ,  West,  Westflegge,  hundred  of,  82, 

159. 

Flegham  Brigge,  co.  Sussex,  116. 
Flemmyng,  David,  466. 

 ,  John,  91,  167,  635. 

 ,  Robert  or  Richard,  dean  of  Lincoln, 

384,  540. 

 Thomas,  16,  148. 

 ,   ,  Margaret,  his  wife,  148. 

 ,  Thomas,  escheator  in  Surrey  and 

Sussex,  208. 

 ,  William,  16,  334. 

Flemmyngys,  co.  Gloucester,  453. 
Flessheyr,  Thomas,  60. 
Fletcher,  John,  102. 

 ,  Robert,  551. 

Flete,  Thomas,  200,  201,  552. 

Flete  Damarle.    See  Fleet  Damarell. 

Fletham,  Richard,  287. 

 ,  Thomas,  41. 

Flcysco,  I'eter,  74. 

Flint,  charter  dated  at,  122. 

 ,  county  of,  361,  365,  366. 

Flitwick,  Flatewyk,  co.  Bedford,  507. 
Floore,  Flore,  co.  Northampton,  571. 
Flordon,  co.  Norfolk,  191. 
Flore.    See  Floure. 

Florence,  11,  12,  59,  132,  160,  239,  273.  359, 

401,  481. 
Flotman  Newton,  co.  Norfolk,  191. 
Floure,  Flore,  Thomas,  286,  350,  627. 
Fluwct,  liichard,  320,  380. 
Fluwode,  John,  515. 
Flynt,  Robert,  323. 
Flyute,  Edward,  1 7 . 
Flynton,  Robert,  323. 


698 


GENERAL  INDEX. 


Fodrynghay.    See  Fotheringhay. 

Fogge,  John,  42,  43,  55,  70,  127,  199,  219, 
272,  274,  283,  288,  297-302,  344,  352, 
363,  366,  373,  407,  428,  463,  563,  571, 
618. 

 ,  ,  Alice  his  wife,  42,  36.3. 

 ,   ,  treasurer  of  the  household, 

165. 

 ,  ,  keeper  of  the  writs  and  rolls  of 

the  Common  Bench,  339. 
  '  ,  the  elder,  339,  340,  403,  404, 

420. 

 ,  the  younger,  339,  340,  403,  404, 

420. 

Folbury,  Robert,  197. 

Folgeham,  Fulgeham,  Henry,  248,  611. 

Folifayt.    See  Follifoot. 

Foljambe,  Godfrey,  602. 

 ,  ,  Margaret  his  wife,  602. 

 Thomas,  400. 

 ,  William,  escheator  of  Lincoln,  122. 

Folke,  CO.  Dorset,  311. 

Folkestone,  Folston,  co.  Kent,  1,  6,  290,  303, 
319. 

 ,  hundred  of,  302. 

 ,  ship  called  the  bote  of,  319. 

 ,  priory  of,  62,  240,  276. 

  ,  prior  of,  240,  276. 

Folkingham,  Folkyngham,  co.  Lincoln,  26, 

516,  517. 
Folkys,  William,  431. 
Follifoot,  Folifayt,  co.  York,  601. 
Folly  John  [co.  Berks],  488,  573. 
Folnesse.    See  Foulness. 
Folowe.    See  Foxlow. 
Folsham.    See  Foulsham. 
Folsham,  John,  579. 
Fonterell,  Roger,  201,  213,  217. 
Forcett,  Forset,  co.  York,  483,  486,  487. 
Ford,  Old,  Oldeforde,  co,  Middlesex,  570. 
Forde,  in  Ida,  co.  Devon,  187. 

 ,  CO.  Salop,  232,  242. 

Forde,  Ford,  Clement,  282. 

 ,  John,  184,  282. 

 ,  Richard,  222,  305,  570. 

 ,  Roger,  76. 

 ,  Walter,  489,  490. 

 ,  William,  60,  582. 

 ,  atte,  60. 

Fordeman,  Robert,  74. 

Forden,  William,  warden  of  the  hospital  of 
St.  James  by  Chichester,  235. 

Fordingbridge,  Fordyngbrygge,  Forthing- 
brige,  co.  Southampton,  223,  596. 

Fordington  [co.  Dorset],  173,  185. 

Fordwich,  co.  Kent,  303. 

Fore,  Fowre,  co.  Meath,  592,  598. 

Foreman,  Gilbert,  395. 

Forest,  Isabel,  prioress  of  Cheshuut,  188. 

 ,  John,  166,  230. 


Forests.  See  Bere  ;  Bernewode ;  Blakmore  ; 
Brandon  ;  Cannock ;  Cleres  ;  Com- 
bury  ;  Dauby  ;  Dartmoor  ;  Dean  ; 
Essex  ;  Exmoor  ;  Filwood  ;  Galtres  ; 
Glincoth  ;  Groveley  ;  Inglewood  ; 
Kingswood  ;  Kinver  ;  Knaresborough  ; 
Lee  ;  Melchuyt ;  Neroche ;  New  Forest ; 
Petherton  ;  I'orchester  ;  Purbeck  ;  Red- 
bridge  ;  Rockingham  ;  Rutland  ;  Sher- 
wood ;  Shotover ;  Sno  wdon ;  Stow  Wood ; 
Trent.';  Waltham  ;  Windsor  ;  Wolmer  ; 
Worth  ;  Wychwood. 

Foretier,  John  le,  201,  213,  217,  221. 

Formour,  John,  306. 

Forncett,  Fornesete,  co.  Norfolk,  191,  539. 

Fornfyld,  Walter,  256. 

Forser,  William,  216. 

Forset.    See  Forcett. 

Forsset,  Thomas,  541. 

Forstall,  Peter,  168. 

Forster,  Alan,  318. 

 .Humphrey,  101,222,  248,  350,  406, 

584,  608,  626. 

 ,  ,the  elder,  285. 

 John,  9,  85,  199,  283,  348-350,  367j 

377,  406,  407,  462,  494,  546,  591,  603, 

605,  617. 

 ,  Richard,  54,  60,  109,  127,  199,  254, 

288,  336,  352,  453. 

 ,  ,  Joan  his  wife,  254. 

 ,  Robert,  145,  356,  622. 

 ,  Roland,  87,  496. 

 ,  William,  60,  288,  506. 

Fortescu,  Henry,  sheriif  of  Cornwall,  327. 

 ,  ,  sheriff  of  Devon,  109. 

 ,  John,  27,  74,  99,  199,  219,  220,  296, 

351,  354,  399,  403,  404,  407,  464,  473, 
490,  493,  525,  589,  598,  617. 

 ,  sherifif  of  Cornwall,  418,  605. 

 ,  Richard,  60,  403. 

Fortin,  Paul,  198. 

Fortey,  John,  147. 

Forth,  Forthe,  Henry,  35,  89. 

 ,  Roger,  76. 

 William,  404. 

Forthampton,  co.  Gloucester,  7. 

Fortune,  John,  456. 

Fosse,  CO.  York,  454. 

Foster,  John,  285,  603. 

 ,  ,  parson  of  Arthuret,  21. 

 ,  Robert,  52,  254,  553. 

 ,  William,  75. 

Foston,  CO.  Leicester,  279. 

Foston,  John,  146. 

Fotheringhay,  Fodringhay,  co.  Northampton, 
151,  184,  481,  504,  562,  563,  595. 

 ,  letters  patent  dated  at,   396,  399, 

599. 

 college  of,  Thomas  Buxhale,  master 

of,  414. 

Foukes,  Thomas,  80. 

Foulescroft,  Alexander,  384. 


GENERAL  INDEX. 


699 


Fouleshurst,  Foulherst,  Robert,  332,  491. 
Foulness,  Folnesse,  co.  Essex,  873. 
Foulsham,  Folsham,  co.  Norfolk,  256. 
Fountains,  abbot  aud  convent  of,  602. 

 ,  Thomas  Swynton,  abbot  of,  602. 

Fourde,  Rogrer,  76. 

Fourneis.    See  Furness. 

Fourneys,  Christopher,  15. 

Foweler.    See  Fowler. 

Fowell,  William,  351,  427,  464. 

Fowey,  CO,  Cornwall,  54,  83,  249,  327,  377, 

468,  474,  492,  494,  511,  544,  548,  602, 

605. 

 ,  port  of,  II,  34,  59,  209,  216,230,  249, 

268,  492,  .121,  536,  555. 

 ,  ship  called  Ze  Barbara  of,  197,  378. 

  ..,  ship  called  le  Parker  of,  605. 

Fowkes,  Thomas,  80. 
Fowler,  John,  1,  342. 

 .Richard,  18,  40,  56,  101,  123,  132, 

152,  196,  264,  283,  287,  309,  349,  350, 
352,  366,  374,  399,  406,  531,  541,  546, 
557,  568,  573,  584,  608,  626. 

 ,  ,  solicitor-general,  180,  182. 

 ,   ,  chancellor  of  the  Exchequer, 

151,  272,  273. 

 ,  chancellor    of  the  duchy  of 

Lancaster,  417,  422,  458,  466,  517, 
532. 

 ,  Thomas,  18,  96,  251,  28.5-2S8,  550, 

568,  592,  608. 
 ,  ,  escheator  of  Oxford  and  Berks, 

583. 

 ,  escheator    of    Bedford  and 

Buckingham,  583. 

  ,  William,  18,  101,  112,608. 

Fowre.    See  Fore. 
Fox,  John,  591. 

 ,  Robert,  593. 

 ,  Thomas,  431. 

Foxearth,  Foxherd,  co.  Essex,  480. 

Foxill,  CO.  Devon,  456. 

Foxley,  co.  Norfolk,  149. 

Foxlow,  Folowe,  co.  Derby,  146. 

Foxton,  CO.  Leicester,  77. 

Framland,  co.  Leicester,  hundred  of,  242. 

Framlingham,   Frammyngham,   co.  Suffolk, 

14,  110,  397. 
Frampton,  co.  Lincoln,  457,  529. 
Frampton,  John,  453. 

 ,  William,  406,  613. 

Framsden,  Framysden,  co.  Suffolk,  154. 
Franburgh.    See  Farmborough. 

France,  French,  59,  62,  114,  201,  213,  217, 
221,  305,  336,  341,  351,  353,  368,  450, 
513,  529,  530. 

 king  of.    See  Louis. 

 ,  war  with,  163. 

  ,  expedition  against,  462,  480,  492-490, 

515,  516,  624-529,  532,  535-537,  545, 
548. 


France,  truce  with,  583. 

 ship  called  le  Kateryne  of,  295,  333. 

 ,  ship  called  la  Marie  of,  366. 

Frank,  Franke,  Edward,  215. 

 ,  Richard,  228. 

 ,  Thomas,  71,  197,  215. 

Frankcheyne,  Richard,  76. 

Frankeleyn,  Frankleyne,  John,  359,  558. 

 ,  ,  Emmota  his  wife,  359. 

 ,  Richard,  502. 

 ,  Stephen,  68. 

 William,  473. 

Frankessh,  Thomas,  366. 

Frausoys,  John,  201,  217,  221. 

Fraternities,  foundation  of,    153,  175,  236, 

372,  417,  424,  446,  486,  518,  542,  553, 

584,  597. 
Fraunce,  William  de,  366. 
FraunceTS,  Thomas,  J43,  248,  382,408,  576, 

611. 

Fray,  John,  472. 
Frebury,  John,  80. 
Frecok,  John,  1. 

Freckenham,  Frekenham  [co.  Suffolk],  589. 

Freeby,  Fretheby,  co.  Leicester,  24,  43. 

Freemantell,  John,  505. 

Freland,  John,  406. 

Freman,  John,  364,  553,  580,  600. 

 ,  ,  Matilda  his  wife,  600. 

 ,  John,    prebendary    of  Bridgnorth, 

342. 

Frembaud,  Thomas,  56. 

 ,   ,  Alice  his  wife,  56. 

 ,  Thomas  the  ."second,  56. 

 ,  Thomas  the  third,  56. 

 ,  Isabel,  56. 

 ,  Joan,  56. 

Frerabourgh.    See  Farmborough. 
Fremington,  co.  Devon,  137. 

 ,  hundred  of,  137. 

Frempton.    See  Frinton. 
Fremyngham.    See  Frinninghani. 
Fremyngham,  Henry,  212. 

 John,  94. 

Fremyngton,  co.  Devon,  33. 

 ,  hundred  of,  32. 

Frenche,  Robert,  319. 
Freud,  John,  320. 
Frende,  Thomas,  293. 
Frennesbury.    See  Friudsbiiry. 
Frenshe,  Nicholas,  82. 

 WiUiam,  80. 

Frenship,  Jo^u,  61. 
Frcnshuiau,    nilrew,  318. 
Frensshe,  F.    use,  John,  94,  382. 

 ,  Giles,  266. 

 ,  Thomas,  30. 

Freuyugham,  John,  94. 
Frequet,  .lohu,  201,  217,  221. 
Frestlyng,  Bartholomew,  640. 


700 


GENERAL  INDEX. 


Freston,  eo.  Suffolk,  590. 

  And  see  Frieston. 

Freston,  John,  506. 
Fretheby.    See  Freeby. 
Frethenden.    See  Frittenden. 
Freton.    See  Fritton. 
Frevile,  Frevyle,  Stephen,  300. 

 ,  Thomas,  410. 

 ,  William,  101,  245,  248,  349,  609. 

Frewen,  Richard,  447. 

Friars  Minor.    See  Cambridge  ;  Colchester ; 

Scarborough. 
Friesland,  396. 

Frieston,  Freston,  co.  Lincoln,  457,  529,  530. 
Friis,  Master  James,  50. 

 ,   ,  the  king's  physician,  396. 

Frindsbury,  Frennesbury,  co.  Kent,  202. 
Frinningham,  Fremyngham,  co.  Kent,  385. 
Frinton,  Frempton,  co.  Essex,  569. 
Friskney,  Fryskeney,  co.  Lincoln,  508. 

  And  see  Dymmok  ;  Kyme. 

Friteswell.    See  Fritwell. 
Frith,  South,  Suthfrith  [co.  Kent],  563. 
Frittenden,  Frethenden,  co.  Kent,  383. 
Fritton,  Freton,  co.  Norfolk,  516. 
Fritwell,  Friteswell,  co.  Oxford,  36. 
Frode,  Clement,  380. 

 ,  Gilbert,  380. 

 ,  John,  380. 

 ,  Simon,  380. 

Frognall,  Richard,  618. 

 ,  Thomas,  301. 

Froidevall,  James,  53. 

Frome  in  Selwood,  co.  Somerset,  10,  78,  305, 

361,  503,  603. 

 ,  hundred  of,  603. 

Frost,  John,  561. 

 ,  William,  200,  606. 

Froswick,  Frostwayt    [co.  Westmoreland], 

334,  531. 
Frowyk,  Henry,  248,  622. 

 ,  Thomas,  28,  53,  182,  248,  463,  622. 

Fryday,  John,  152. 

 ,  Robert,  576. 

Frye,  Richard,  99. 

 ,  William,  80. 

Frynde,  Stephen,  516. 

Frysby,  William,  155. 

Fryse,  John,  267. 

Frystlyng,  Bartholomew,  512. 

Frythe,  Thomas,  503. 

Frytheby.    See  Freeby. 

Fulbarn,  Thomas,  353. 

Fulbeck,  FuUebek,  co.  Lincoln,  457,  530. 

Fulbourn,  Fulburu,  co.  Cambridge,  433,  480. 

Fulbrook,  Fulbroke    [co.   Warwick],  345, 

457,  529. 
Fulbroke,  John,  477. 
Fulfen,  CO.  Stafford,  16. 


Fulford,  CO.  Devon,  92,  303. 

Fulford,  Baldwin,  58,  92,  179,  181. 

 ,  Thomas,  58,  92,  171,  219,  246,  247, 

251,  303,  330,  356,  403,  404,  408,  491, 

604. 

 ,  William,  49,  331. 

Fulgeham    See  Folgeham. 
Fulkstone.    See  Folkstone. 
Fulkus,  Thomas,  203. 
Fuller,  John,  251,  581. 

 ,  Richard,  251. 

 ,  Thomas,  289. 

Fullerton,  co.  Southampton,  81. 
Fulletby,  co.  Lincoln,  508. 
Fulnetby,  co.  Lincoln,  482. 
Fulstowe  Arsik,  co.  Lincoln,  508. 
Fulstowebeek,  co.  Lincoln,  508. 
Fulthorp,  Isabel,  124. 

 ,  Philippa,  124. 

 ,  Thomas,  124. 

Fulthorpe,  Alan,  215. 
Fulwode,  CO.  Nottingham,  310,  488. 
Fundenhall,  Funnale,  co.  Norfolk,  191. 
Funell.    See  Fenuell. 
Funnale.    See  Fundenhall. 
Fuoggesasshe,  co.  Hereford,  41. 
Furmer,  John,  306. 
Furnariis,  Ciprian  de,  518, 
Furbusshour,  John,  387. 
Furness,  Fourneis,  co.  Lancaster,  abbot  of» 
304. 

Furneys,  Christopher,  50,  208. 

 ,  Peter,  40. 

Fust,  John,  199,  633. 

 ,  ,  escheator  in  Surrey  and  Sussex, 

192. 

Fuster,  Fuyster,  John,  450,  471. 
Fyfield,  Fifhide,  co.  Essex,  582. 
Fylding.    See  Feldyng. 
Fyler,  William,  234. 
Fylmyngham.    See  Felmingham. 
FyloU,  John,  28. 
Fylongley,  Henry,  226. 
Fyn,  Margaret,  567. 
Fynaunce,  John,  320,  344. 
Fyubergh.    See  Finborough. 
Fynch,  Fynche,  James,  335. 
 ,  John,  199. 

 ,  Vincent,  351,  376,  406,  463,  469,  489, 

490,  571,  59  >,  633. 
 ,  William,  101. 

Fyncham,  John,  169,  245,  247,  249,  406,  606, 
622. 

Fyncheley.    See  Finchley. 
Fyncheley,  John,  577. 
Fynchman,  John,  490. 
Fynciance,  John,  344. 
Fyndern,  Thomas,  336. 

 ,   ,  Katharine  his  wife,  336. 

 ,  William,  336. 


GENERAL  INDEX. 


701 


Fynderne,  Robert,  286. 

Fyndrayton.    See  Draytou. 

Fynes.    See  Fenys. 

Fyneton.    See  Feniton. 

Fyneux,  Fynyeux,  John,  428,  463,  571,  618. 

Fyngryth.    See  Fingrith. 

Fynne,  German,  544. 

Fynyeux.    See  Fyneux. 

Fysshe,  Edmund,  516. 

 , ...  .  .,  parson  of  Cranham,  107. 

 ,  ,  parson  of  Castle  Rising,  107. 

 ,  Henry,  276. 

 ,  John,  69,  499. 

Fyssher,  John,  141,  375,  489,  495,  607. 

 ,  Louis,  343. 

 ,  Richard,  2,  494. 

 ,  Robert,  214,  277. 

 ,  Thomas,  45,  53,  80. 

 ,  William,  574,  581. 

Fysshwyk.    See  Fishwick. 
Fylton.    See  Filton. 
Fytelton.    See  Fittleton.^ 
Fytiltou.    See  Fittleton. 
Fyton,  Thomas,  379. 
Fyttys.    See  Fitz. 


G. 

Gace,  William,  321. 
Gaddesby,  Riohard,  81,  142. 
Gaddesden,  Great,  co.  Hertford,  32,  137. 
Gaddesden,  John,  289. 
Gager,  Thomas,  405,  406. 
Gailey,  Gavley,  co.  Staiford,  233. 
Gairstang,  John,  3,  79,  142. 
Gaiton.    See  Gayton. 
Galberd,  William,  525. 

Gale,  Thomas,  114,  198,  262,  288,  443,  543, 
555. 

Galeys,  John,  abbot  of  Tewkesbury,  66. 

Galloway,  in  Scotland,  13. 

Galon,  John,  446. 

Galtres,  forest  of,  co.  York,  5,  263. 

Galway,  Galewey,  in  Ireland,  15. 

Gamage,  Ralph,  390. 

Gamblesby,  Gammelsby,  co.  Cumberland,  13. 

Gamelton,  co.  Bedford,  191. 

Gamelyn,  John,  394. 

Gamlyn,  William,  289. 

Ganelle,  George,  577. 

Gannull,  William,  parson  of  Lasham,  337. 

Gannowe,  co.  Worcester,  18. 

Garce,  John,  317,  319,  354. 

Gardegrave,  Edmund,  65, 


Gardener,  Gardner,  Gardyner,  John,  128, 

313,  377,  413,  453,  459. 

 ,  Richard,  sheriff  of  London,  205. 

 ,   ,  warden  of  the  college  of  vicars 

in  the  cathedral  of  Hereford,  365. 

  ,  William,  320,  463,  494. 

Gardyn,  William,  201,  217,  221. 

Gargrave,  John,  marshal  of  the  Marshalsea, 

2. 

 ,  Robert,  339. 

Garlcke,  John,  255. 

Garlinge,  in  the  Isle  of  Thanet,  co.  Kent, 
445. 

Garlond,  John,  355,  378. 
Garnet,  Edmund,  216. 

 ,  Richard,  escheator  in  Kent,  394. 

 ,  Thomas,  614. 

 ,  William,  50. 

Garnett,  Robert,  parson   of  Sigglesthorne, 
267. 

 ,   ,  parson  of  Gosforth,  267,  268. 

 succentor  in  York  cathedral, 

268. 

Garnettes  [in  High  Easter],  co.  Essex,  290. 
Garneys,  Edmund,  249. 
Garnon,  William,  9,  149. 
Garrant.    See  Guerande. 
Garter,  order  of,  554. 

 ,   ,  office  of  chancellor  of,  554. 

 knights  of  the,  292,  529. 

Garth,  Garthe,  Thomas,  43,  262,  453. 
Garton,  CO.  York,  115. 
Gartsyde,  Hugh,  496. 
Garvays,  Thomas,  364. 
Garwell,  Thomas,  200. 
Garyugton,  Richard,  81. 
Gascoigne,  Agnes,  74. 

 Bartholomew  de,  366. 

 ,  John,  74. 

 ,  Nicholas,  318. 

 ,  Robert,  408,  638. 

 ,  Thomas,  74. 

 William,  74,   144,   199,  349,  408, 

638. 

Gascony,  Gascons,  49,  366,  493,  521,  595. 

 ,  wine  of,  14,  198,  264,  358,  366. 

Gaskyn,  John,  326. 
Gastangre,  John,  3. 

Gate,  Geoffrey,  186,  209,  218,  248,  249,  270, 

290,  55.5,  6)4,  629. 
 John,  362. 

 ,  Thomas,  escheator  of  Bedford  and 

Buckingham,  390. 

 ,          ,  rector  of  Barford,  220. 

Gatescales.    See  Scales. 

Gateshead,  co.    Durham,  hospital    of  St. 

Edmund,  John  Shirwode,  master  of, 

142. 

Gateshende,  Nicholas^  226, 
Gatton,  John,  147. 


702 


GENERAL  INDEX. 


Ganger,  appointment  of,  17,  83,  107,  155, 
166,  206,  230,  269,  305,  313,  363,  489 
566,  593. 

Gaufifrid,  John,  198. 

Gaunt,  John,  469. 

 ,  Nicholas,  4. 

Gavley.    See  Galley. 

Ga)',  John,  197,  354. 

 ,  Thomas,  145,  186,  323,  553. 

 ,  ,  the  elder,    10,  76,   143,  149, 

226,  386. 

 ,  ,  the  younger,  76,  79,  184,  183, 

321,  558. 

 ,   ,  Katharine  his  wife,  321. 

Gayhurst,  Gotehirst,  co.  Buckingham,  77. 
Gayler,  Alan,  321. 
Gayncot,  Geyncot,  Walter,  101,  168. 
Gaynes  Park,  co.  Essex,  508. 
Gaynesford,  George,  295. 

 ,  ,  Isabel  his  wife,  295. 

 ,  John,  295,  389,  405,  571,  632. 

 ,   ,  Katbariiie  his  wife,  295. 

 .Nicholas,  10-!,  157,  158,  182,  351, 

389,  462,  567,  571,  629,  632. 
 ,   ,  sheriff  of  Surrey  and  Sussex, 

210. 

 ,  ,  Margaret  his  wife,  157. 

Gayton,  Geyton  in  le  Merssh,  co.  Lincoln, 

202,  457,  529. 

 ,  Gaiton,  CO.  Norfolk,  163. 

Gayton,  Reginald,  619. 

 .Richard,  427. 

 ,  Robert,  SO. 

Gaywodo,  John,  149,  169. 
Gazeiee,  Gaysle,  co.  Suffolk,  93. 
Gebon,  Thomas,  1. 
Gebons,  Thomas,  102. 
Gedding,  co.  Suffolk,  603. 
Gedding,  John,  152. 

 ,  Robert,  152. 

Geddington,  co.  Northampton,  232. 

 ,  charter  dated  at,  459. 

Geddyug,  William,  406,  631. 

Geddynge,  Edmund,  410. 

Gertling,  Gedlyng,  co.  Nottingham,  511,  591. 

Gedney,  co.  Lincoln,  203. 

Gedyng,  Walter,  502. 

Geffrey,  Gefferey,  John,  158,  414. 

 ,  Leysau,  dean  of  Walliugford,  160. 

 ,  Richard,  39,  101,  168. 

Geffereys,   Richard,    chaplain    of  Turners 

Piddle,  443. 
 ,   ,  parson  of  Codford  St.  Peter, 

443. 

Gefferon,  GeffiOD;  John,  8,  194. 
Gefford.    See  Gifford. 
Gcgyll,  William,  578,  589. 
Gelot,  Thomas,  38.j. 

Gelybronde,  Gilibroiid,  Robert,  570,  607. 
Gelyngham.    See  Giliingham. 
Geneus,  John,  44. 


Genffrey,  John,  605. 
Genney.    See  Jenney. 
Gennowe,  William,  573. 

Genoa,  Genoese,  28,  217,  222,  236,  239,  294, 
361,  445,  510,  518,  586. 

 ,  merchants  of,  239. 

Gent,  William,  251. 
Gentili,  Humphrey,  312. 
Geutill,  William,  573. 
Gentyll,  Philip,  68. 

George,  duke  of  Clarence,  earl  of  Warwick, 
and  Salisbury,  lord  of  Richmond,  the 
king's  brother,  55,  69,  102-104,  107, 
114,  126-128,  169,  170,  177,  192,  206, 
217-220,  234,  245-249,  252,  279,  283- 
285,  296,  317,  342,  348-353,  360,  366, 
428,  455,  487,  490,  491,  513,  517,  529, 
530,  537,  550,  557,  573,  583,  597,  607- 
611,  613,  613-624,  626-631,  633-638. 

 ,  ,  lieutenant  of  Ireland,  16,  21, 

54,  110,  122,  133,  157,  161,  193,  205, 
234,  243,  272,  335,  343,  344,  391,  414, 
438,  458,  461,  466,  468,  473,  516,  583, 
592,  598. 

 ,    great  chamberlain  of  England, 

262,  344,  414,  438. 

 ,   ,  grants  to,  88,  241,330,  457,  594. 

1  ,  ...  .  ,  secretary  of,  218. 

 ,   ,  Isabel  his  wife,  455,  550. 

Geerge,  John,  10. 

 ,  Richard,  235. 

 ,  Robert,  500. 

 ,  William,  72,  102. 

Gerald,  Ralph,  290. 

Gerard,  Gerrard,  Thomas,  103,  401,  426,  575. 

 ,  ,  parson  of  S.S.  Simon  and  Jude, 

Norwich,  with  St.  Swithun,  Norwich, 
and  Crostwhite  annexed,  342. 

Gerardson,  Gummer,  421. 

Gerbevyl.    See  Gerpins. 

du  Gerdin,  Guillerin,  213. 

Gerraansweek,  Germaneswyk,  co.  Devon,  76. 

Germyu,  John,  5. 

Gernun,  William,  123. 

Gerona,  Verundo,  in  Spain,  54. 

Gerona,  John  de,  510. 

Gerpins,  Gerbevyl  [in  Rainham],  co.  Essex, 
306. 

Gerrard.    See  Gerard. 

Gersey.    See  Jersey. 

Gervas,  Gerves,  Gerveys,  John,  184. 

 ,  Peter,  104,  149. 

 ,  Thomas,  364. 

 ,  ,  Joan  his  wife,  364. 

Gervase  [le  VulreJ,  Master,  the  king's  secre- 
tary, 48,  303,  582. 
Geryng,  Robert,  82. 

Gest,  Robert,  chaplain  of  Mortimer's  Chantry 
in  Chichester  cathedral,  236,  359. 

   ,  parson  of  Headley,  359. 

Gesjlham.    See  Gisleham. 
Gethyn,  Maurice,  265. 


GENERAL  INDEX. 


703 


Geyncot.    See  Gayncot. 

Geysthweyte.    See  Guestwick. 

Geyton.    See  Gayton. 

Geyton,  William,  322. 

Ghendbrigg,  lord  of.    See  Adourins. 

Gibthorpe,  John,  escheator  in  Lincoln,  520. 

Gientillman,  Richard,  400. 

GifFord,  co.  Suffolk,  297. 

Gifford's  in  Shimpling,  co.  Suffolk,  .556. 

Gififord,  Gift'ard,  GyflFord,  John,  58,  101,  168, 

285-288,  349,  456,  552,  608,  612. 

 ,  Richard,  319. 

 ,  Robert,  145. 

Gilbert,  Adam,  546. 

 ,  John,  262,  347,  406. 

 ,  Oto,  58,  198,  220,  288,  490. 

 ,  Robert,  bishop  of  London  [1436- 

1448],  176. 

 „  Thomas,  48,  212,  328,  475. 

 ,  William,  381. 

Gilby,  Gylby,  Thomas,  122,  490. 

Gilbys,  John,  198. 

Gildeford.    See  Guildford. 

Gildon,  Richard,  141. 

Giles,  Gyles,  John,  295. 

  Master  John,  tutor  of  the  king's  sons, 

592. 

 ,  Laurence,  488. 

 ,  William,  178. 

Gilford,  Gylford,  John,  259,  391,  463. 

 ,  ,  sheriff  of  Kent,  1. 

Giliam,  Da^id,  28. 

Gilibronde.    See  Gelybronde. 

Gill,  Gille,  Gylle,  John,  505. 

.,  ,  Richard,  482. 

 ,  Thomas,  58,  167,  320. 

 ,  escheator  of  Devon  and  Corn- 
wall, 58,  128. 

 ,   ,  escheator    of    Somerset  and 

Dorset,  65,  194. 

 ,  Walter,  377. 

 ,  William,  381,  578. 

Gillesland,  Gyllyslaud,  William,  214,  277. 

Gilling,  CO.  York,  483,  486,  487. 

 in  Rydall,  40. 

Gillingham,  co.  Dorset,  344. 

 ,  CO.  Kent,  hundred  of.    See  Chatham. 

Gillott,  Richard,  prebendary  of  liridgcoith, 
332,  338. 

Gillowe,  Thomas,  251. 

Gilmet,  Gervase,  parson  of  Scales,  313. 

Gilmyn,  Gylmyn,  John,  144,  563. 

 ,  Richard,  462,  563. 

 ,  Thomas,  146,  147,  406,  462. 

Gilnot,  Thomas,  601. 

Gilson,  William,  386. 

Girlyngton,  Nicholas,  74. 

Girmethwayte,  co.  Cumberland,  557. 

Girton,  Gyrton,  John,  245,  248,  609. 

Gise,  Gyse,  John,  89,  614. 


Gisleham,  Gesylham,  Gvsslam  [co.  Suffolk], 

307,  467,  586. 
Gisors,  charter  dated  at,  136. 
Gissegge.    See  Gussage. 
Gittisham,  Gydsham,  co.  Devon,  60. 
Glace,  Edmund,  124. 
Gladley,  Gledley,  co.  Bedford,  521. 
Glamford  Brigg,  co.  Lincoln,  520. 
Glamvyle,  Richard,  384. 
Glanvilla,  Ranulph  de,  13. 
Glapthorne,  co.  Northampton,  82. 
Glasmondfall,  co.  Salop,  402. 
Glastonbury,  co.  Somerset,  45,  53. 

 John,  abbot  of  93,  223. 

Glave,  Robert,  rector  of  Cranford,  78. 
Gleaston,  Gleston,  co.  Lancaster,  456. 
Glebra,  Richard,  532. 
Gledesey,  Master  Simon  de,  100. 
Gledley.    See  Gladley. 
Glemeham,  John,  418. 
Glemham,  co.  Suffolk,  110. 
Glentworth,  co.  Lincoln,  164. 
Gleston.    See  Gleaston. 
Gleve,  John,  447. 

Glincoth  [co.  Caermarthcn] ,  forest  of,  165. 
Gloucester,  30,  77,  183,  211,  236,244,  315, 
453,  465,  471,  496,  498,  505. 

 ,  Barton  by,  341,  481. 

 ,  duke  of.    See  Humphrey  ;  Richard. 

 ,  abbey  of  St.  Peter,  328,  330,  333. 

 ,  convent  of,  328,  481,  588. 

 ,  abbot  of,  341. 

 ,  Dan  Richard  Hanley,  abbot  of,  328. 

 ,  Dan  William  Farley,  abbot  of,  328, 

333. 

 ,  county    of,  57,   65,  82,  103,  106, 

127,  139,  163,  172,  195,  218-220,  222, 
237,  242,  247,  251,  284,  289,  294,  329, 
347,  349,  407,  427,  429,  430,  439,  462, 
490-492,  496,  524,  562,  574,  605. 

 ,   ,  sheriff  of,  163,  219,  220,  232, 

244,  284,  349,  407,  429,  490,  492,  524, 
588. 

 ,  escheator  in,  15,  35,  123,  206, 

241,  278,  333,  339,  359,  399,  442,  467, 
472. 

 ,   A7id  see  Walssh. 

 ,  outlawries  in,  2,  4,  7,  10,  44, 

77,  147,  149,  224,254,257,  323,386, 

575-577. 

 ,  subsidj'  and  ulnage  of  cloth  in, 

329,  335,  347,  478,  537,  570. 

 ,  ,  commissions  of  the  peace  in 

614. 

Gloucet',  John,  3. 
Glove,  John,  516. 
Glover,  John,  268,  339. 
 ,  Stephen,  568. 

Glowcestre,  Thomas,  prebendary  of  Bridg- 
north, 260. 

Glympton,  Glymton,  co.  Oxford,  375. 


704 


GENERAL  INDEX. 


Glyn,  Glynne,  John,  362,  610. 

 ,  ,  the  elder,  575. 

..J  ,  ,  the  younger,  575. 

 ,  Thomas,  552. 

 ,  ,  Joan  his  wife,  552. 

Glynton,  William,  212. 

Gocche,  Thomas,  380. 

Godale.    See  Godeale. 

Godard,  James,  383. 

Godbed,  Bartholomew,  147. 

Goddesfelde  in  Frieston,  co.  Lincoln,  457. 

Goddesford  in  Frieston,  co.  Lincoln,  530. 

Goddyere.    See  Goodyer. 

Godeale,  Goodeale,  Adam,  50,  92,  105,  460. 

Godehall,  William,  6. 

Godeknappe,  Simon,  286. 

Godelakescrosse.    See  St.  Guthlac's  Cross. 

Godeman,  John,  68,  69. 

 ,   ,  Alice,  his  wife,  68. 

Goderd,  Simon,  302. 

Goderswyk,  Goderyswyke,  William,  464,  506, 
513. 

Godestre.    See  Good  Easter. 
Godewyn,  Richard,  577. 
Godeyere.    See  Goodyer. 
Godfelawe,  Gilbert,  5. 

Godfrey,  Godfraj',  Eichard,  157,  285,  428, 

486,  607. 

 ,  Thomas,  285,  301. 

Godington,  Bodyngton,  co.  Oxford,  241. 
Godman,  Philip,  204. 
GodmanstOD,  co.  Dorset,  293. 
GodmanstoD,  Simon,  43. 

 ,  William,  569. 

Godneston.    See  Goodnestone. 

Godneston,  John,  301. 

Godstone,  co.  Surrey,  580. 

Godstow,  Goddestowe,  co.  Oxford,  abbey  of, 

212,  230,  241,  278. 

 ,  convent  of,  212. 

 ,  Dame  Margaret  More,  abbess  of,  239, 

241. 

 ,  Alice  Henley,  abbess  of,  212,  278. 

 ,  Alice  Nunny,  abbess  of,  278. 

Godyer,  John,  372. 

  And  see  Goodyer. 

Godyng,  Henry,  574. 

 ,  John,  38. 

 ,  William,  391. 

Godyngton,  William,  577. 
Goes,  Vangoos,  in  Zeeland,  104. 
Gogh,  John,  29,  109,  344,  473. 

 ,  William,  293. 

Gogney,  Roger,  50. 

Golchyll,  Richard,  102. 

Goldcliff  [CO.  Monmouth],  66,  551. 

 ,  priory  of,  48,  62,  66,  461,  551. 

 ,  prior  of,  62. 

Goldesburgh,    Guldesburgh,    Edward,  378, 
638. 


Goldhanger,  Coldanger,  co.  Essex,  146. 
Goldington,  co.  Bedford,  191. 
Goldre  [co.  Monmouth],  66,  551. 
Goldryng,  John,  596. 

Goldsmyth,  Christopher,  parson  of  Enville, 
130. 

 ,  Joan,  215. 

 ,  John,  53,  145. 

 ,  Thomas,  53,  130. 

 ,  William,  324. 

Goldston,  John,  261. 
Goldwell,  James,  344. 

 ,   ,  the  king's  proctor  in  the  court 

of  Rome,  125,  126. 
 ,   ,  bishop  of  Norwich  [1472-1499], 

366,  373,  459,  538,  553,  568,  623,  631. 
 ,   ,  prebendary  of  St.  George's, 

Windsor,  359. 
 ,   ,  dean  of  Salisbury,  160,  306, 

366. 

 ,  John,  9. 

 ,  Nicholas,  344,  366. 

Goldwyn,  Roger,  144. 
Goldyng,  John,  276,  303. 
Goldyngton,  William,  289,  381,  607. 
Gomme,  William,  157. 

Gomon,  John,  prebendary  of  Pontesbury, 
278. 

Gonner,  John,  277. 
Gontun.    See  Gunton. 

Gonville,  Gonneviles  in  Wymondham,  co. 

Norfolk,  562. 
Good,  Benedict,  257. 
Gooday,  Thomas,  76. 
Good  Easter,  Godestre,  co.  Essex,  318. 
Goodhand,  Thomas,  385. 
Goodnestone,  Godneston,  by  Wyngham,  co. 

Kent,  301. 

Goodrich,  Goderige,  Godrych,  co.  Hereford, 
397,  411,  414,  415,  521,  539,  561. 

Goodwyn,  Walter,  383. 

Goodyer,  Goddyere,  Godeyere,  William,  52, 
61,  171,  184,  201,  278,  307,  489,  495, 
525,  591. 

Goold,  Ralph,  440. 

Goolde,  Hugh,  331. 

Gooshays,  Goseys,  in  Hornchurch,  co.  Essex, 
375,  388. 

Goosnargh,  Gosenor,  co.  Lancaster,  307, 
419. 

Gore,  John,  141. 
Gorfyn,  Thomas,  558. 
Gorges,  Richard,  270. 

 ,  Theobald,  628. 

Goring,  co.  Oxford,  63. 
Gormaneston,  lord  of.    See  Preston. 
Gorthonbree,  co.  Flint,  152. 
Goryng,  John,  14,  104,  199,  405,  406,  489, 
490,  571,  633. 

 ,  the  younger,  247,  249,  633. 

Gosberkirk,  co.  Lincoln,  9,  297,  560. 


GENERAL  INDEX. 


705 


Goscote,  CO.  Leicester,  wapentake  of,  242. 

Gose,  John,  50. 

Gosenor.    See  Goosnargh. 

Gosenyll,  John,  4. 

Goseys.    See  Gooshays. 

Gosforth,  CO.  Cumberland,  239, 267,  268. 

Gosse,  John,  356. 

 .....William,  356. 

Gosselyn,  Druett,  537. 

 ,  Peter,  80. 

Gote,  John,  286. 
Gotehirst.    See  Gayhurst. 
Gotelee,  Richard,  66,  94. 
Gotholhan,  co.  Cornwall,  578. 
Gotholhau,  .John,  578. 
Gough,  Adam,  2. 

 David,  273,  337. 

  And  see  Gogh. 

Goudhurst,  Goutherst,  co.  Kent,  502. 
Gounthorpe,  Thomas,  prior  of  Newstead  in 

Sherwood,  35. 
Gour,  Roger,  9. 
Gourll,  John,  568. 
Gourney,  Thomas,  152. 
Gourton,  co.  Lincoln,  560. 
Goussell.    See  Goxhill. 
Goutherst.    Sec  Goudhurst. 
Govan,  Richard,  14. 
Gowelys,  John,  592. 

 ,  William,  592. 

Gower,  co.  Glamorgan,  163,  191. 

 ,  West,  163,  191. 

Gower,  Edward,  229,  243,  310. 

 George,  286. 

 ,  Robert,  286. 

 ,  Thomas,  103,  286,  287. 

Gowyn,  John,  10. 

Goxhill,  Coxhill,  Goussell,  co.  Lincoln,  40, 
508. 

Goyes  (in  Duuton),  co.  Bedford,  415. 
Goylyn,  John,  62G. 
Gra,  John,  43. 

 ,   ,  Thomasia  his  wif«,  43. 

Grace,  Matthew,  503. 

Graffyn,  Tliomas,  parson   of    St.  John's, 

Jersey,  360. 
Grafton  by  Gcddington,  co.  Northampton, 

158,  159. 
Grafton,  John,  606. 
Grafton,  lord  of.    See  Wydeville. 
Gragvergos.    See  Carrickfergus. 
Graham,  Humphrey,  551. 
Grainsby,  Graynysby,  co.  Lincoln,  508. 
Gramary,  William,  593. 
Grame,  John,  214,  277. 

 ,  Thomas,  the  elder,  214,  277. 

 ,  ,  the  younger,  214. 

Grandorch,  Roger,  328. 
Granford,  John,  525. 
Gransacrc,  co.  Buckingham,  191. 

y  96186. 


Grantham,  Andrew,  one  of  the  vicars  of 
Wells,  36. 

 ,  Thomas,   mayor  of  the  staple  of 

Calais,  392. 
Grapefige,  Cristina,  68. 

 ,  Walter,  68,  69. 

 ,  William,  68. 

Grarigge,  John,  214. 

Grasmere,   Gresmere    [co.  Westmoreland], 

334,  531. 
Gratefeld.    See  Cratfield. 
Graunger,  John,  79,  384. 

 ,  Thomas,  321. 

 ,  Master  William,  420. 

Graunt,  Grawnt,  John,  75,  436. 

 Thomas,  171. 

Grauntford,  Babilo,  448. 
 ,  John,  448. 

Grauntpount  by  Oxford,  co.  Berks,  599. 
Grauntwell,  John,  abbot  of  St.  James  by 

Northampton,  283,  292,  590. 
Grave,  Robert,  201,  250. 

 ,  Robert  of,  208. 

atte  Grave.  Walter,  465. 

 Sabina  his  wife,  465. 

Gravelines,  Gravelyng,  in  France,  555. 

Gravenhurst,  co.  Bedford,  507. 

Gravesend,  co.  Kent,  105,  127,  235,  285,  434, 

463,  525,  686. 
Gravile.    See  Grevile. 
Grawe,  John,  318. 
Gray.    See  Grey. 
Grayson,  Arthur,  504. 

 ,  Thomas,  525,  595. 

Greeks,  65. 

Greencastle,  Grenecastell,  in  Ireland,  165. 
Greenhead,  Greuehede,  co.  Westmoreland, 
531. 

Greenhoe,  South,  co.  Norfolk,  hundred  of, 
191. 

Greenrigg,  co.  Westmoreland,  531. 
Greenwich,  Grenewych,  co.  Kent  64. 

 ,  East,  462. 

 ,  West,  463. 

Grcfyngk,  Barnard,  605. 
GrcfFey,  AVilliam,  148. 
Gregory,  John,  8,  168. 

 ,  Robert,  298,  377,  459. 

Gregory,  William,  the  younger,  435,  498. 

 Agnes  his  wife,  435,  498. 

Grenborough,  John,  473. 

Grene,  Henry,  147,  153,  203,  623. 

 ,  Margaret  his  wife,  158,  159, 

 ,  Constance,  158,  159. 

 ,  John,  74,  148, 231,  248, 249,  252,  288, 

317,  345,  351,  463,  493,  503,  613. 
618. 

  canon  of  Hcrelord  calludral, 

365, 

 ,  Matthew,  13. 

Y  Y 


706 


GENERAL  INDEX. 


Greue,  Richard,  4,  31,  256. 

 ,  Robert,  28,  227,  253,  349,  358,  363, 

482,  549,  622. 
...   ,  Thomas,  100,  144, 153,236,  313,330, 

439. 

 ,   ,  vicar  of  Leek,  142,  365. 

 ,   ,  the  elder,  272,  346. 

 ,  the  younger,  272,  346. 

 ,   ,  Matilda  his  wife,  345. 

 ,  William,  141,  145,  248,  249,  320, 

407,  415,  428,  614. 

Grenefeld,  George,  532. 

Greneford,  John,  618. 

Greneley,  Thomas,  322. 

Greneoke,  Richard,  202. 

Greneside,  Alan,  482. 

Grenested,  John,  301. 

Grenewathelyn,  co.  Cumberland,  557. 

Greneway,  Grenewey,  Richard,  8,  397. 

Grenham,  Grenam,  William,  504. 

Greseley,  Gresley,  Gresseley,  John,  12,  219, 

248,  611,  630. 
Gresford,  cos.  Denbigh  and  Flint,  538. 
Gresmere.    See  Grasmere. 
Greston,  co.  Gloucester,  hundred  of,  44,  162, 

244,  536,  592. 
Greswold,  Robert,  49,  331,  604. 

 ,  Roger,  331. 

Gretecrosse  [co.  Cambridge],  169. 
Gretlove,  Peter,  402. 
Gretton,  co.  Gloucester,  5. 

 ,  CO.  Northampton,  327,  390,  536. 

Gretyngham.    See  Cretingham. 
Greve.    See  Griff. 

Grevile,  Gravile,  Greyville,  John,  30,  99, 
152,  218,  246,  247,  348,  349,  401,  405, 
407,  430,  454,  504,  525,  606,  614,  634. 

 ,   ,  Jocosa,  his  wife,  99. 

Grewell,  Nicholas,  276. 

Grey,  Gray,  Agnes,  400. 

 ,  Anne,  374. 

 ,  Anthony,  209,  348,  570,  607. 

 ,   ,  of  Ruthyn,  195,  196,  199,  285, 

485,  624. 

 ,  Edmund,  250, 

 of  Ruthyn,  earl  of  Kent,  168, 

190,  195,  196,  199,  217,  219,  285,  577, 
583,  607,  608,  617,  623. 

 ,   ,  treasurer,  558. 

 ,  Edward,  218,  245-248,  348,  619. 

.,,  ,   ,  Elizabeth  his  wife,  348. 

 ,  ,  lord  Ferrers  of  Groby,  348. 

 ,   ,  lord  Lisle,  520,  583,  612,  615, 

629. 

 ,  ,  Elizabeth,  his  wife,  520. 

 ,  Henry,  218,  349,  406,  516,  620,  623. 

 ,  ...   ,,  Joan,  his  wife,  516. 

 ,   ,  esclieator    of   Norfolk  and 

Sufifolk,  391. 
 ,   the  eld«r,  93. 


Grey,  Henry,  lord  Grey,  395. 

 ,   ,  of  Codnore,  195,  199,  221, 

284,  611,  624,  630. 

 ,   ,  of  Groby,  218. 

 John,  11,  166,  204,  216,  308,  353. 

 ,  ,  lord  of  Powys,  25,  62,  243. 

 ,   ,  bishop   of  Norwich  [1200- 

1214J,  538. 

 ,  ,  rector  of  Somerleyton,  176. 

 ,  John  de,  123. 

 ,  Ralph,  100,  174,  199,  250,  401. 

 ,  Reginald,  348. 

 ,   ,  lord  of  Wilton,  399,  615,  616. 

 ,  Richard,  180,  456,  457,  616. 

 ,   ,  lord  of  Powys,  25,  62,  243, 

  Robert,  220,  406,  613. 

 ,  Roger,  of  Wilton,  350. 

.  ,  ,  Thomas,  38,  115,  116,  120,  167,  169, 

17»,  174,  176,  196,  271,  276,  285,  319, 

349,  374,  401,  406,  569,  591,  609. 
 ,   ,   escheator  of  Norfolk  and 

Suffolk,  180. 
 ,   ,  warden  of  the  free  chapel  of 

Wemstede,  40. 

 ,   ,  lord  of  Richemond  Gray,  32. 

 ,   ,  of  Groby,  marquess  of  Dorset, 

son  of  the  queen,  218,456,457,514, 

582,  583,  606,  615,  616,  627,  636. 

 ,   Cecily  his  wife,  514. 

 ,  William,  bishop  of  Ely  [1454-1478], 

169,  170,  337,  338,  477,  481,  518,  609, 

613,  617,  622,  630. 
 ,   ,  treasurer  of  the  Exchequer, 

176,  190,  211,  337. 

 ,           de,  123. 

Greyndoure,  Robert,  425. 

 ,   ,  Joan  his  wife,  425. 

Greys  in  Ca7endish,  co.  Suffolk,  89. 
Greyson,  William,  203. 

Greystoke,  Graystoke,  Ralph,  lord  of  Grey- 
stoke  and  Wem,  29,  102,  115,  171, 
197,  199,  200,  221,  227,  253,  317,  349, 

350,  369,  624,  636-638. 

Griff,  Greve  [in  Chilvers  Coton],  co.  War- 
wick, 133. 

Griffith,  Gryffethe,  Gryffyth,  Henry,  54. 

 ,  John,  383. 

 ,  Richard,  252,  286,  621. 

 ,  Walter,  354,  407,  637. 

 ,  William,  ;->4,  490. 

 ap  Howell,  parson  of  la  More,  294. 

Griffuthe  ap  Rees,  39. 
Griffyn,  GryfCyn,  Nicholas,  570,  624. 
Grimsby,  Grymesby,  Grysby,  co.  Lincoln, 
152,  161,  168. 

 ,  port  of,  527. 

,.   ,  Great,  178. 

 ,  North,  596. 

Grimsthorpe,  Grymsthorpe,  co.  Lincoln,  19, 
200,  310,  420,  518,  523. 

Grindleton,  Grynleton,  cc  York,  323. 


GENERAL  INDEX. 


707 


Grinstead,  West,  Westgrynsted,  co.  Sussex, 
312. 

Grisaker.    See  Grysacre. 
Grobury  [co.  Bedford],  6.5,  362. 
Groby.    .See  Grooby. 

Grome,  John,  parson  of  Drayton  Parslow, 
344. 

Gronerst,  John,  288. 

  And  see  Groveherst. 

Grooby,  Groby,  co.  Leicester,  348,  424. 
Grosmont,  Grosseniont,  co.  Monmouth,  140. 
Grotou,  Andrew,  82. 
Grove,  Thomas,  194. 

 ,   ,  prior  of  Monkton  Farleigh, 

313. 

 ,  William,  378. 

 ,  parson  of  Kisington  Wick, 

438. 

atte  Grove,  John,  400. 
Groyeher»t,  John,  364. 

  And  see  Gronerst. 

Groveley  [co.  Wilts],  348. 

 ,  forest  of,  32,  48,  137,  548. 

Grubbe,  John,  10. 
Grue,  John  le,  213. 
Gruest,  Thomas,  79. 

 ,   Alice,  his  wife,  79. 

Gruthuse.    See  Unigges. 
GryfiFyn.    See  Griffyu. 
Gryflfyth.    See  Griffith. 
Grymer,  John,  577. 
Grymesby.    See  Grimsby. 
Grymesby,  John,  93,  387. 

  And  see  Grymmesby. 

Grymesthorpe.    See  Grimsthorpe. 
Grymeston,  Edward,  246,  248. 

  And  sec  Gryniston. 

Grymmesby,  William,  142,  246,  248,  359. 
517,  619. 

  And  see  GryTiiesby. 

Grymoldys,  Louis  de,  445. 
Grymstede,  Walter,  118. 
Grymston,  Cecily,  586. 

 ,  Walter,  199. 

  And  see  Grymeston. 

Grynder,  Robert,  323. 
Gryng,  Robert,  201,  217,  221. 
Gryuleton.    See  Grindleton. 
Grysacre,  Grisaker,  Ambrose,  168,  638. 

 ,  Percival,  638. 

Grysby.    See  Grimsby. 
Gualt,  Guillerin,  213. 
Guatle,  John,  381. 

 ,  Thomas,  380. 

Guddesbere  by  Tiverton,  co.  Devon,  179. 
Gueldres,  duchy  of,  374,  604. 
Gueraude,  Garrant,  in  Brittany,  521. 

 ,  ship  called  le  Jiilynn  of,  493. 

 ship  called  ta  Marie  of,  511. 

Guestwick,  Geysthweyte,  co.  Norfolk,  500. 


Guianne,  duchy  of,  506. 
Guilden  Morden,  Gyldenmorden,  co.  Cam- 
bridge, 74. 

Guildford,  Guldeford,  Gildeford,  co.  Surrey, 

93,  375,  476,  505,  513,  548. 
Guillebot,  John,  198. 
Guillim  ap  Thomas,  442. 
Guillo,  Ivo,  198. 
Guiole,  Ivo,  198. 
Guipuzcoa,  in  Spain,  480- 

 ,  men  of,  599. 

Guisbrough,  Gysbum,  co.  York,  578. 

 ,  prior  of,  550. 

Guisiies.    See  Guysnes. 
Guldeford.    See  Guildford. 
Guldeford,  Guldford,  John,  259,  618. 
Guldesburgh.    See  Goldesburgh. 
Gull,  William,  295. 
Guunas,  William,  23. 

Gunne,  Roger,  146. 

Gunner,  Richard,  277,  552. 

Gunny,  John,  72. 

 Thomas,  72. 

'  Gunpowdre,'  25. 

Gunter,  William,  53,  381. 

Gunthorpe,  John,  366,  509,  523. 

 ,   ,  the  king's  almoner,  120,  306, 

517,  537,  586,  597. 

 ,  secretary  of  the  queen,  32,  367. 

...   ,   ,  clerk  of  Parliament,  260,  413. 

 ,    prebendary  of  St.  Stephen's, 

Westminster,  306. 

 ,  ,  dean  of  Wells,  512,  540. 

  master  or  warden  of  the  king's 

Hall,  Cambridge,  32,  114,  358,  367. 

Gunton,  Gontuu,  Robert,  392. 

Gurdon,  William,  331. 

Gussage,  Gissegge,  co.  Dorset,  534. 

Guynge  Margaret*.    See  Margaretting. 

Guysnes,  in  Picardy,  20,  108,  109,  204,  205, 
270,  271,  290-292,  313,  358,  388,  392, 
460,  455,  457,  513,  529. 

Gwylym,  John  ap,  29. 

Gwyune,  John,  279,  343,  548. 

Gybbe,  Thomas,  223. 

Gybbes,  Gybbys,  John,  104,  346,  247,  288, 
302,  429,  499,  552. 

 ,  Thoiwas,  558. 

Gybson,  Robert,  277. 
Gybthorpe,  Simon,  286. 
Gydsham.    See  Gittisham. 
Gye,  John,  404. 
GyflFord.    See  Gifford. 
Gyges,  William,  148. 
Gylby.    See  Gilby. 
Gyles.    See  Giles. 

Gyldenmorden.    See  Guilden  Morden. 
Gylford.    See  Gilford. 
Gylle.    See  Gill. 
Gyllyot,  Henry,  149. 

Y  y  2 


708 


GENERAL  INDEX. 


Gyllysland.    See  Gillesland. 

Gylmyn.    See  Gilmyn. 

Gylot,  Thomas,  1. 

Gylpyu,  VVilliam  257,  635. 

Gylys,  Thomas,  prior  of  Dunstable,  329,  330. 

 ,  William,  203. 

  And  see  Giles. 

Gymgrauf.    See  Ingrave. 
Gynes.    See  Guysnes. 
Gynner,  Eichard,  147. 
Gyppecrake.    See  Jepcracks. 
Gyrton.    See  Girton. 
Gysburgh,  John,  569. 
Gysburn.    See  Guisbrough. 
Gyse.    See  Gise. 
Gysle,  Gysell,  John,  247,  322. 
Gysslam.    See  Gisleham. 


H. 

Habeudon.    See  Abington. 
Hache,  John,  44. 

Hackensall,  Hacunsawe  [in  Lancaster],  co. 

Lancaster,  307,  419. 
Hackney,  Hakeney,  co.  Middlesex,  329,  386. 
Hacton.    See  Daucton. 
Hacunsawe.    See  Hackensall. 
Hadde,  John,  302. 

Haddeuham,  Hadenham,  co.  Buckingham, 
472. 

Haddington,  Hadyngton,  co.  Lincoln,  27, 
517. 

Haddiscoe,  Haddescogh,  co.  Norfolk,  240. 

Haddon,  West,  co.  Northampton,  327. 

Haddon,  Master  John,  prebendary  of  Bridg- 
north, 342. 

 ,  Richard,  3. 

 William,  144, 

Hadecron.    See  Headcorn. 

Hadham  [co.  Hertford],  23. 

Hadleigh,  Hadley,  co.  Sufiolk,  144,  183,  203, 
321,  323,  369,  582. 

Hadley,  Thomas,  prior  of  the  new  hospital  of 
St.  Mary  without  Bysshoppysgate, 
London,  254. 

Hagerston,  Henry,  197. 

Haghton,  Roger,  354. 

Hagley,  co.  Worcester,  419. 

Hagnet,  honour  of,  61,  87. 

Haidon.    See  Haydou. 

Haightesbury.    See  Heytesbury. 

Haile,  John,  584. 

Hailes,  Hayles,  co.  Gloucester,  abbot  and 
monks  of,  466,  536. 

  William,  abbot  of,  576. 

Hainwoith,  llcyucworth,  uo.  York,  46. 


Hakeney.    See  Hackney. 

Haket,  William,  7. 

Hakker,  William,  417. 

Hakwell.    See  Hawkwell. 

Halberton,  Holberton,  Alberton,  co.  Devon, 
32,  137,  292. 

 ,  hundred  of,  339,  343. 

Halcote.    See  Holcote. 

Halden,  co.  Kent,  283,  546. 

Haldenby,  John,  428. 

 ,  Robert,  428. 

 ,  William,  500. 

Hale,  CO.  Lincoln,  419. 

 Great,  20,  419. 

 ,  West,  20,  419. 

Hale,  John,  41. 

Halele,  John,  145. 

...   ,  Robert,  14S. 

Hales,  Halys,  co.  Norfolk,  191. 

Hales,  John,  bishop  of  Coventry  and  Lich- 
field [1459-1490],  114,  267,  387,  391, 
410,  425,  479,  530,  627,  630,  634. 

 ,  keeper  of  the  privy  seal, 

233. 

Halesowen,  co,  Salop,  monastery  of  St.  Mary, 
16. 

 abbot  and  convent  of,  16,  242,  396. 

 ,  John,  abbot  of,  16. 

Halewell.    See  Halwell. 

Haliday,   Walter,   marshal    of    the  king's 

minstrels,  153. 
Hall,  Halle,  Henry,  199,  380. 

 ,  ,  parson  of  Alvescott,  52. 

 ,  John,  2,  53,  76,  145,  221,  324,  353. 

 ,  Peter,  145. 

 ,  Richard,  28,  145,  287,  350,  406,  626. 

 ,  Robert,  215. 

 Thomas,  145,  324,  564. 

 ,  William,  28,  286,  318. 

 Henry  atte,  81,  145. 

Hallamshire,  Halamshyre,  co.  York,  418,  419, 
439,442. 

Hallaton,    Haloughton,  co.  Leicester,  202, 

254,  413. 
Halle.    See  Hall. 
Hallerigge,  co.  Devon,  187. 
Hallfeld  in  Sheffield,  co.  York,  421. 
Hallikeld,  co.  York,  483,  486. 
Hallingbury,  Halyngbery  Morley,  co.  Essex, 

603. 

Ilallisbyn.    See  Halsbury. 
Halmau,  Thomas,  143. 
Halmer,  Richard,  79,  414. 

 ,  ,  escheator  of  Lincoln,  414. 

Haloughton.    See  Hallaton. 
Haloughton,  Halowton,  William,  167,  174. 
Hals,  CO.  Devon,  36. 
Hals,  Michael,  1 14. 

 ,  Halse,  Richard,  127,  246,  247,  427. 

Halsall,  Uenry,  103. 


GENERAL  INDEX. 


709 


Halsbury,  Hallisbyn  [co.  Devon],  552. 

Halse.    See  Hals ;  Hales. 

Hal.sewood,  Halswod   [in  CollumDton],  co. 

Devon,  343. 
Halsted,  Peter,  86. 
Halstow,  CO.  Kent,  575. 
Haltmoiul,  John,  406. 
Halton  [co.  Buckingham],  152. 

 ,  CO.  Oxford,  40,  20O,  399. 

Halvergate,  co.  Norfolk,  539. 
Halwell,  CO.  Devon,  27,  473. 
Halwell,  Halewell.  Alwell,  John,  240,  247, 

251,  351,  377,  407,  427,  612. 

 1   ,  escheator  of    Devon  and 

Cornwall,  559. 
Halytreholme,  Thomas,  309. 
Halywell.    See  Halwell. 
Ham,  CO.  Essex,  291. 

  East,  Esthamme,  co.  Essex,  169, 

252,  288. 
 ,  West,  580. 

 ,  CO.  Kent,  hundred  of,  300. 

 ,  CO.  Surrey,  64. 

Hambergh.    See  Handborough. 
Hamble,   Hamuli   in  le   Eycc,  co.  South- 
ampton, 6. 

Hambletou,  Hamyldon,  co.  Rutland,  18,  40, 
123, 

Hamborough.    See  Handborough. 
Hamburg,  in  Almaiii,  ship  called  le  George 
of,  30. 

Hamby,  co.  Lincoln,  508. 

Hamcastle,  Homcastell,  co.  Worcester,  521. 

Hamelak.    See  Helmsley. 

Ilamelsett.    See  Ambleside. 

Hamerton.    See  Hammerton. 

Hamerton,  John,  194. 

 ,  Richard,  55. 

Hamet.    See  Hammett. 

Hametethy  [in  St.  Breward],  co.  Cornwall, 
467. 

Hamiburg.    See  Heraingbrough. 
Hamleyn,  John,  250. 
Hamme,  John,  16. 

Hammerton,  Hamerton,  co.  Huntingdon,  144, 
225,  255. 

Hammes,  co.  Bedford,  191. 

  And  see  Hamsey. 

..   ,  Hiimpues,  by  Calais,  201,  211,270, 

388,  45.%  513,  591. 

Hammes.  Henry,  375. 

 ,  ,  the  younger,  388. 

Hammett,  Hamet  (in  Quethiock),  co.  Corn- 
wall, 389,  444. 

HamoD,  John,  202. 

 ,   ,  Katharine,  his  wife,  202. 

Hamond,  John,  57,  404,  405,  429,  629. 

   ,  parson  of  Headley,  359. 

 ,    chaplain    of  Mortimer's 

chantry  in  Chichester  cathedral,  359. 


Hamond,  Wiuiam,  187,  565. 

 ,   ,  escheator  in  the  county  of 

Cambridge,  340. 
 ,    prior    of    St.  Andrew's, 

Northampton,  194,  402. 
 ,   ,  parson  of  Castle  Rising, 

107. 

 ,  parson  of  Cranham,  107. 

Hampden,  Edmund,  56,  472. 

 ,  John,  of  Kymbell,  472. 

 ,  Thomas,  of  Kymbell,  5.5,  56,  196, 

246,  247,  285,  289,  608. 
 ,  Thomas,  of  Hampden,   126,  196, 

246-248,  608. 
Ham  Preston,  co.  Dorset,  534. 
Hampole,  co.  York,  582. 
Hamsey,  Hammes,  co.  Sussex,  192. 
Hampstead,  co.  Middlesex,  601. 
Hampsterly,  John,  413. 
Hampton.    See  Southampton. 
 ,  High,  Highaunton  by  Shepeswasshe, 

CO.  Devon,  473. 

 ,  Nun's     See  Miuchinhamptoo. 

  Meysey,  co.  Gloucester,  327,  373. 

  Gaye,  co.  Oxford,  375. 

  Poyle,  CO.  Oxford,  295. 

Hampton,  Beno,  16. 

 ,  John,  24,  177,  406,  427,  603. 

 ,  Richard  de,  233. 

  William,  18,  40,  113,  169,185,345, 

399,  553. 

 ,   ,  mayor  of  London,  390,  391, 

415. 

Hamuli.    See  Hamble. 

Hamyldon.    See  Hambletou. 

Hanaper,  the,  12-14,  17,  22,  23,  34,3,5,  37, 
41,  43,  47,  49,  59,  61,  62,  64,  65,  68, 
69,  84-88,  90,  93.  95,  99,  106,  110- 
115,  117-119,  122,  123,  130,  131, 
134-130,  152,  157-159,  163,  164,  176, 
177,  182,  184,  185,  188,  193,  207,  210, 
228,  230-232,  234,  236,  237,  245,  260, 
261,  271,  295,  306-308,  311-313,  328, 
343,  346,  358,  359,  361,  364,  365, 
369-371,  374,  376,  387,  389,  391, 
395-400,  402,  413,  417,  420,  423-426, 
439,  441,  443,  447-449,  460,  465,  470, 
471,  474,476-479,  486-488,  509,  510, 
514,  519,  521.  523,  528,  531,  537-539, 
541,  543,  544,  547,  555,  558,  563,  565- 
569,  584,  592,  596,  597,  600-604. 

  keeper  of,  59,  125,  130,  176,  226, 

228,  237,  264,  294,  315,  549. 

  And  see   Davyson  ;   Walter;  EU 

ringtou. 

 ,  surveyor  of,  125. 

Hanburgh.    See  Hamburg. 

Handborough,  Hangburgh,  Hanbourgh, 
Hambergh,  co.  O.N^lord,  17,  117,  241, 
244,  364,  422,  510,  543,  567,  573. 

Handsworth,  Honnesworth,  co.  StatFord,  470, 

 ,  CO.  York,  412,  460. 

Handy,  Robert,  53 1 . 


710 


GENERAL  INDEX. 


Hang,  CO.  York,  483,  486. 

Hang,  John,  256. 

Hangburgh.    See  Handborough. 

Hanging  Laugford,  co.  Wilts,  priory  of,  6  2. 

Hankefot,  Thomas,  118. 

Hankford,  co.  Devon,  36. 

Hankyn,  William,  579. 

Hanley,  Dan  Richard,  abbot  of  St.  Peter's, 

Gloucester,  328. 
Hanincre,  John,  42.5. 

 ,  Ankaret,  his  wife,  425. 

Hannes,  Kichard,  42. 

Hauney,  East,  Esthanney,  co.  Berks,  434. 

Hanningfield,  East,  Esthauyfeld,  co.  Essex, 

149. 

Hannyes,  William,  102. 

Hansard,  Henrj',  escheator  of  Lincoln,  401. 

Hanse  Almain,  282,  340,  493,  509,  605. 

Hanserd,  Elizabeth,  215. 

Hansworth.    See  Handsworth. 

Hanweli,  William,  448. 

Hanworth,  co.  Norfolk,  539. 

Hanyes,  Robert,  102. 

Hanyugton,  Christopher,  374,  469,  558. 

Haoas,  Bertomyo  de,  295. 

 ,  Monholet  de,  295. 

Happing,  co.  Norfolk,  hundred  of,  82,  159. 
Harbert.    See  Herbert. 
Harberton,  Herberton,  co.  Devon,  567. 
Harborough,  Harburgh,  Hauerbergh,  Havere- 

bergh,  co.  Leicester,  98,  212,  292,  368, 

410. 

 ,  Hardeborugh,  Little,  co.  Warwick, 

135. 

Harbridge,  Hardebrygge,  co.  Southampton,  3. 
Harby-,  Hardeby,  co.  Leicester,  27,  517. 
Harcombe,  eo.  Devon,  187. 
Harcourt,  John,  515. 

 ,  Richard,  197. 

 ,  Robert,  515. 

 ,  Walter,  196. 

 ,  William,  195. 

  A7id  see  Harecourt. 

Hardbeae,  Hardebene,  Philip,  134,  212,  307. 
Hardby.    See  Hareby. 
Hardeborugh.    See  Harborough. 
Hardebrygge.    See  Harbridge. 
Hardeby.    See  Harby. 
Hardegill.    See  Hardgill. 
Harden,  Robert,  18. 

Hardewyk  by   Awnsley.     See  Eyuesbury 

Hardwick. 
Hardewyke,  William,  68. 
Hardgill,  Hardegill,  Hargill,  Edward,  24,  43, 

90,  218,  519,  586. 
Hardgyll,  Master  George,  208. 
Harding,  Robert  son  of,  328,  370. 

 ,  Robert,  87. 

  And  see  HardyBg. 

Hardlegh.    See  Harlech. 


Hardman,  Henry,  431. 
 Philip,  244. 

Hardwick,  Hardewyk,  Herdwyk,  co.  Leicester, 
336. 

 ,  CO.  Norfolk,  504. 

 ,  CO.  Northampton,  158,  159. 

Hardyng,  John,  299,  343,  359. 

 ,  Robert,  18. 

 ,  Thomas,  6. 

 ,  William,  60. 

  And  see  Harding. 

Hardyngham,  William,  353. 
Hardynglegh.    See  Ardingley. 
Hare,  John,  10. 
Harebottell,  John,  463. 

Hareby,  Ilardbv,  Simon,  16,  28,  85,  170,  285, 

620,  62 1",  623. 
Harecourt,  Christopher,  352,  576. 

 ,  John,  285,  407,  423,  585. 

 ,   ,  the  elder,  524. 

 ,  Richard,  8.5,  101,  285,  352,  353,  400, 

406,  472,  510,  584,  622. 

 ,  Robert,  28,  287,  382,  423,  498,  625. 

 ,  ,  Joan  his  wife,  423. 

 ,  William,  510. 

 ,  ,sheri£P of  Warwick  and  Leicester, 

12,  383. 

  A7id  see  Harcourt. 

Haremuth.    See  Aruemuiden. 

Harescombe,  Harscombe,  co.  Gloucester,  2 1, 

448,  453,  512. 
Haresfield,  Harsfelil,  co.  Gloucester,  262,  448. 
Hare  Street,  Harestre,  in  Uomford,  co.  Essex, 

78. 

Haretre,  Richard,  193,  194. 
Hareway  by  Calais,  178,  482. 
Harewell,  Roger,  496,  526,  636. 

 ,  William,  430,  634. 

Hareweston,  co.  Huntingdon,  141. 
Harewode,  John,  148. 
Harewood,  Harwod,  co.  York,  378. 
Hai-flet,  Hugh,  parson  of  Milstead,  469. 
Harford,  Hereford,  co.  Devon,  224. 
Harige.    See  Hayridge. 
Harington,  William,  334. 
Hariott.    See  Heriott. 
Harkstead,  Herksted,  co.  Suffolk,  321. 
Harlakendeu,  William,  300. 
Harlech,  Hardlegh,  co.  Merioneth,  41,  193, 
293. 

Harlee.    See  Harley. 
Harleston,  Richard,  57. 

 ,  Robert,  246,  297,  631. 

 ,  William,  246,  248,  408,  606,  631. 

Harley,  Harlee,  John,  269,  429. 
Harling,  East,  Estharlyng,  co.  Norfolk,  501, 
562. 

Harlsey,  Herlesey  [co.  York],  483,  487. 
  ,  West,  177. 


GENERAL  INDEX. 


711 


Harlyng.    See  Herlyng. 

Harmaleyn,  Florence,  396. 

Harmanson,  Henry,  428. 

Harmer,    Master   William,    prebendary  of 

Windsor,  096. 
Harmerthorpe,  co.  Lincoln,  560. 
Harnage,  Hernage,  Hugh,  116,  1.55,  327. 

 ,   ,  escheator  in  Salop,  133,  191. 

Barneys,  Philip,  607. 
Harowdon.    See  Harrowdon. 
Harowedon,  Richard,  271. 
Harome,  co.  York,  457,  529. 
Harper,  John,  80,  351. 

 ,   ,  escheator  of  Hereford  60,  191 

 ,  Richard,  496,  552. 

 ,  Thomas,  216. 

 ,  William,  407,  494,  630. 

  And  sec  Uarpour. 

Harpesfeld,  Nicholas,  363. 

Harpford,  Herpford,  co.  Devon,  51,  79. 

Harpham,  Michael,  433. 

 ,  ,  Anne  his  wife,  433. 

Harpoll,  William,  2. 
Harpour,  John,  443, 

 ,   Eleanor  his  wife,  443. 

 ,  Richard,  443. 

 William,  443. 

  And  see  Harper. 

Harre,  Robert,  1. 
Harres.    See  Harrys. 
Harrington,  William,  lord,  456. 

Harrowdon,    Harwedon,    co.  Northampton, 
271. 

 ,  Great,  466. 

Harry,  John,  200,  575. 

 ,  Thomas,  60. 

Harrys,  Harres,  Harryes,  John,  77,  453. 

 ,   ,  Thomas,  73. 

 ,   William,  115,  141,  450. 

Harryson,  Richard,  113. 

 ,  William,  450. 

  And  see  Haryson. 

Harscombe.    See  Harescombe. 
Harsfeld.    See  Haresfield. 
Harteshorne,  John,  544. 
Hartest,  Herthurst,  Hertest,  co.  Suffolk,  297, 
556. 

HarthiU,  Herthill,  co.  York,  wapentake  of, 
251. 

Harting,  Hertyng,  co.  Sussex,  20,  104. 

  South,  Suthertyng,  38. 

Hartland,  Hertilond,  co.  Devon,  2 1 . 

 ,  hundred  of,  21. 

 ,  abbe}'  of,  21. 

Hartlebury,  Hertilbury,  co.  Worcester,  110. 

Hartlepool,  Hartylpole  [co.  Durham],  mayor 
of,  497,  572. 

Hartley,  Hertelegh,  co.  Kent,  114. 


Hartwell,  Hertwell,  co.  Buckingham,  224. 

Harum,  Robert,  578. 

Harvy.    See  I  Icrvy. 

Harwardyng,  John,  302. 

Harwedon.    See  Harrowdon. 

Harwell,  John,  686. 

 ,  William,  246,  247. 

Harwey  by  Calais,  178,  482. 

Harwich,  Harewyche,  co.  Essex,  432,  605. 

 ,  ship  called  le  Peti/r  of,  201,  355. 

Harwod.    See  Harewood. 
Harwode,  William,  505. 
Haryngtou,  Anne,  427. 

 Elizabeth,  427. 

 ,  James,  198,  349,  427,  535,  638. 

 ,  ,  sheriff  of  Vork,  600. 

 ,  John,  103,  212,  311,  427. 

 ,  Elizabeth  his  wife,  311. 

 ,  John,  lord,  476. 

 ,   ,  Elizabeth  his  wife,  4  76. 

 ,  Robert,  427. 

 ,   lord,  476. 

 ,  Isabel  his  wife,  476. 

 ,  Thomas,  103,  427. 

 ,  William,  144. 

Haryson,  John,  573. 

 ,  Richard,  576,  577. 

  And  see  Harryson. 

Hasard,  John,  vicar  of  Northfleet,  435. 
Haselbury,  Haselbere,  llasilbeare,  co.  Dor»et, 
457,  518,  557, 

 CO.  Somerset,  32,  137. 

Haseldeu,  Hasylden,  William,  406,  609. 
Haselore.    See  llazeler. 
Hasilbeare.    See  Haselbury. 
Hasilden,  Elizabeth,  abbess  of  Elstow,  381. 
Haster,  John,  467,  471. 
Hastings,  co.  Sussex,  5,  276,  303,  517. 
 port  of,  496. 

 ,  free  chapel  of,  prebend  of  Hollingtou 

in,  155. 

Hastynges,  Edmund,  40,  205,  282,286,316, 
349,  408,  637. 

 Edward,  2. 

 Hugh,  131,  349,  378,  408,  638. 

 ,  John,  245,  247,  249,  353,  491,  623, 

638. 

 ,  Ralph,    139,   175,    199,    284,  285, 

315,  349,  372,  405,  440,  452,  520,  533, 
571,  623. 

    sheriff  of  the  county  of  North- 
ampton, 272,  309. 

 ,   ,  Anne  his  wife,  452. 

 ,  Richard,  104,  196,  199,  207,  221, 

284,  285,  315,  352,  354,  405,  508,  509, 
535,  563,  612,  615,  619-621,  625,  629, 
634,  636. 

 ,   ,  Joan  his  wife,  207,  509. 

  ..,  Thomas,  216. 


GENERAL  INDEX. 


Hastynges,  William,  65,  563. 

 ,   ,  lord  Hastynges,  55,  70,  85,  92, 

102,  103,  106,  127,  154,  17l>,  171,  176, 
190,  195-197,  199,  219,  221,  284,  285, 
310,  311,  341,  348-351,  372,  405,  410, 
426,  449,  462,  479,  488,  516,  551,  583, 
611,  612,  615,  617-621,  623,  624,  628, 
630,  633,  634,  636,  637. 

 ,   ,  the  king's  chamberlain,  26,  39, 

138,  165,  207,  283,  313,  363,  366,  403, 
439,  456,  460,  476,  506,  523,  530,  535, 
539,  561,  562. 

 ,   ,  master  of  the  mint,  138,  139, 

149,  150,  313-315. 

 ,  lieutenant  of  Calais,  295,  397, 

437,  440,  468. 

 ,   ,  chamberlain  of  North  Wales, 

154,  165. 

 ,   ,  receiver-general  of  the  duchy 

of  Cornwall,  337. 

 ,  ,  Katharine  his  wife,  26,  449,  456. 

Hasylden.    See  Haselden. 
Hatch,  West,  co.  Wilts,  566. 
Ilatclifife,  Hatteclyfife,  John,  621, 

 ,  Master  William,  462,  463,  631. 

 ,   ,  the  king's  secretary,  36,  39, 

416,  512,  540. 
Hatfeld,  Hattefeld,  Edward,  340,  416. 

 ,  Kichard,  340,416. 

 ,   ,  Margaret  his  wife,  340,  416. 

 Stephen,  399,  490. 

 ,  John,  199. 

 ,  Thomas,  416. 

Hatfield,  co.  York,  310,  441. 

  Peverel,  co.  Essex,  225. 

 Bishop's,  CO.  Hertford,  325,  581. 

Hathcrleigh,  co.  Devon,  94. 
Hatley,  c6.  Bedford,  191. 

 ,  East,  CO.  Cambridge,  581. 

 ,  Hungry,  581. 

Haton,  Thomas,  579. 
Hattar,  Richard,  146. 
Hatteclyfib.    See  Hatcliffe. 
Hattefeld.    See  Hatfeld. 
Hatton.    See  Daucton. 
Hatton,  llicbard,  261. 
Hauchet,  Thomas,  72. 
Hauerbergh.    See  Harborough. " 
Haugh ton,  Richard,  431. 
Hauke,  John,  146. 
Haukes,  Richard,  122. 
Haukyns.    See  Hawkyns. 
Haulte,  Jaques,  86. 
Hauntemont,  Robert,  599. 
Hausert,  Richard,  of  Ouresby,  621. 
Hautbray.    See  High  Bray. 
Haute,  Hawte,  Edmund,  124,  591. 
 ,  James,  463. 

 ,  Richard,  340,  351,  366,  419,  490, 

525,  614,  616. 


Haute,  Richard,  the  elder,32,  33,  53,  615,  616, 

628,  636. 

 ,  ,  the  younger,  460. 

 ,   ,  Eleanor  his  wife,  460. 

 ,  William,   127,  195,  199,  219,  283, 

285,  340,  352,  389,  407,  428,  463,  489, 

571,  618. 

 ,   ,  sheriff  of  Kent,  548. 

Haverebargh.    See  Harborough. 
Haverfordwest,  co.  Pembroke,  175. 
Havering,  co.  Essex,  119,  321,  580. 
Haveriugland,  Haverlond,  co.  Norfolk,  256. 
Haward.    See  Howard. 

Hawart,  William,  parson   of  St.  Martin's, 

Chichester,  52. 
Hawcok,  John,  1. 
Hawdeles,  John,  519. 
Hawe,  CO.  Gloucester,  66. 
Hawebrygge.    See  Abridge. 
Hawkesbury,  Richard,  abbot  of  Evesham,  35. 
Hawkyn,  Thomas,  146. 

  ,  ,  Margaret  his  wife,  146. 

Hawkyns,  Haukyns,  Hawekyns,  John,  224, 

386,  481,  498. 

 ,  Thomas,  347,  518,  530. 

 ,  William,  1. 

Hawkwell,  Hakwell,  co.  Essex,  32,  137. 

Hawme,  John,  414. 

Hawnes,  CO.  Bedford,  14. 

Hawte.    See  Haute. 

Hawton.    See  Horton. 

Haxey,  co.  Lincoln,  157. 

Hay  [co.  Brecon],  175. 

 ,  CO.  Westmoreland,  531. 

Hay,  Matthew,  614. 

Haydock,  co.  Lancaster,  32,  137. 

Haydok,  William,  184,  384. 

Haydon,  Haidou,  Henry,  197,  250,  490,  491. 

 ,  John,  236. 

Haydor,  co.  Lincoln,  472. 
Haydych,  co.  Essex,  131. 
Hayford,  Humphrey,  87,  107. 

 ,   ,  sheriff  of  London,  96. 

 ,  William,  553. 

Hayle,  Thomas,  503. 

Hayles.    See  Hailes. 

Hayling,  co.  Southampton,  94. 

Hayll,  John,  the  elder,  322. 

Hayne,  Hean,  co.  Kent,  hundred  of,  300. 

Hayne,  James,  605. 

Haynes,  Richard,  389. 

 ,  Robert,  147. 

Hayno.    See  Heyno. 
Hayreman,  Thomas,  609. 

Hayridge,  Harige,  co.  Devon,  hundred  of, 
280,  457,  529. 

Hayssheford,  Walter,  115, 

Haytfeld,  Heytfeld,  John,  637. 

Hayton,  co.  York,  498. 


(lENERAL  INDEX. 


713 


Hayton,  Robert,  493. 

 ,  Thomas,  322,  324. 

Hayward,  Tliomas,  vicar  of  Cheshunt,  436. 
Hazeler,  Haselore,  co.  Warwick,  386. 
Headcorn,  Hadecron,  co.  Kent,  502. 
HeadicgtoD,  Hedyngton,   co.   Oxford,  232, 
242. 

Heailey,  Hedley,  co.  Southampton,  359. 
Healaugh,  Helagh,  Helay  Parke,  co.  York, 
279,  321. 

 ,  Christopher  Lofthous,  prior  of,  321. 

Hean.    See  Hayne. 

Heanor,  Henore,  Henour,  co.  Derby,  1,  410, 
479. 

Heaton,  Hetou,  co.  York,  3, 

Heckington,  Ilekyngtou,  co.  Lincoln,  27,  517. 

Heddon,  Heddyug  (in  Tamerton),  co.  Ccru- 

wall,  432. 
Hede,  John,  60,  501. 
Hedeustowe.    See  Edwinstowe. 
Iledinghain,  Henyngham,  Hengham,  Hething- 

ham,  Hithiugham,  co.  Essex,  410,  439, 

543,  545,  56.^,  567,  588. 

 Castle,  297,  318,  547. 

 ,  Sible,  297,  560. 

Iledhim,  John,  200. 

Hedley.    See  Headlcy. 

Hedon  in  Holdernesse,  co.  York,  353,  431. 

Hedon,  Henry,  352,  353. 

Hedyngton.    See  Headington. 

Heed,  Henry,  6,  7. 

Hegham.    See  Higham. 

Heige,  John,  453. 

Heightesbury.    See  Heyte.sbury. 

Hekelesfeld.    See  Ecclesfield. 

Hekyngton.    See  Heckington. 

Helagh.    See  Healaugh. 

Helbeck,  co.  Westmoreland,  10. 

Helbenham.    See  Benliam  Hoe. 

Hele,  Geoffrey,  94. 

 ,  Nicholas,    parson    of   St.  George, 

Exeter,  599. 
Heleder,  Thomas,  255. 
Heler,  Laurence,  80. 

Helhoughton,  Hellcweton,  co.  Norfolk,  191. 

Helland,  co.  Cornwall,  389. 

Hellard,  Peter,  prior  of  Bridlington,  111. 

Hellesden,  Heylesdeu,  co.  Norfolk,  191. 

Hellcweton.    See  Helhoughton. 

Hello,  Godfrey,  207. 

Hellowe  (?  Heulow),  co.  Bedford,  327. 

Hello  we.    Sec  Beileau. 

Helmedon,  Helmynden,  co.  Norhampton,  4. 

Helmsley,  Hamelak,  co.  York,  458,  530. 

Helowe.    See  Beileau. 

Helperby,  Richard,  213. 

Helpesthope  [in  Drayton  Beauchamp],  co. 

Buckingham,  135. 
Helpringham,  co.  Lincoln,  560. 
Helsington,  Helsinton  [co.  Westmoreland], 

334,  531. 


Helton,  Hugh,  476. 
Helwcll.    See  Ilolywuli. 
Helyard,  Robert,  the  elder,  349,  637. 
Hem  [in  Shifnal],  co.  Salop,  192. 
Hembury.    See  Honbury. 
Hemelsey,  Thomas,  143,  432,  499. 
Hemingbrough,  Hamiburg,  co.  York,  600. 
Hemington,  Hemyngton,  co.  Somerset,  24, 
51. 

Hemmesby.    See  Hemsby. 

Hemniyng,  John,  471. 

 ,  William,  16. 

Hempnall,  Hemnale,  co.  Norfolk,  12. 

Hempstede,  Thomas,  579. 

Hemsby,  Hemmesby,  co.  Norfolk,  353. 

Hemyngforth,  Thomas,  229. 

Hemyngton.    See  Hemington. 

Henbury,  Hembury,  co.  Gloucester,  30,  .323. 

Hende,  Gresilda,  240. 

 ,  John,  the  younger,  512. 

 ,  William,  253. 

Hendon,  co.  Middlesex,  601. 

Hendred,  Henrede,  co.  Berks,  433. 

 ,  East,  Esthenreth,  433. 

Henebond.    See  Heunebont. 

Heney.    See  Henny. 

Hengham.    See  Hedingham;  Hinghaiu. 

Hengham,  Richard,  abbot  of  Bury  St.  Ed- 
munds, 470. 

Hengston.    See  Hiuxton. 

Henham,  co.  hlssex,  12. 

Henley  on  Thames,  co.  Oxford,  12,  249 
585. 

Henley,  Alice,  abbess  of  Godstow,  212,  278. 

 ,  John,  301. 

 ,  Nichola.s,  251. 

Henlow.    See  Hellowe. 
Henuawde,  John,  513. 
Heunebont,  Henebond,  in  Brittany,  521. 
Henuold,   in   Waltham  forest,  co.  Essex. 
561. 

Henny,  Heney,  co.  Essex,  515. 

 ,  Great,  515. 

Henour.    See  Henor. 

Henry  L,  king  of  England,  13. 

 ,  charters  of,  67,  370,  371,  460,  465 

539. 
Henry  IL,  131. 

 ,  charters  of,  13,  14,  117,  164,  328, 

369-371,  398,  425,  460,  478,  555. 

 letters  patent  of,  398. 

Henry  IIL,  131,  371,  471. 

 charters  of,  17,  34,  63,  67,  68,  95 

99,  112,  123,  136,  164,  188,  358,  370, 
371,  376,  398,  413,  423,  425,  426,  460 
478,  520,  521,  561. 

 ,  letters  patent  of,  370,  424. 

Heurj-  IV.,  70,  94,  150,  329,  336,  339,  357 
378,  476,  520. 

 ,  letters  patent  of,  94,  237,  343. 

 ,  charters  of,  114,  267. 


714 


GENERAL  INDEX. 


Henry  v.,  65,  71,  150,  238,  242,  365,  378, 
424. 

 ,  charter  of,  237. 

 ,  when  prince  of  Wales,  letters  patent 

of,  115,  121. 
Henry  VI.,  8,  12,  20,  24,  26,  36,  59,  65,  66, 

69,  72,  76,  99,  120,  133,  150,  161,  279, 

293,  296,  298,  378,  419,  441,  459,  520, 

531. 

 ,  letters  patent  of,  41,  49,  63,  64,  99, 

115,  121,  237,  307,  397,  399,  474,  544, 
551,  600,  601. 

 ,  charters  of,  99,  122,  508. 

 ,  household  of,  514. 

  ,  secretary  of.    See  Courtenay. 

..   almoner  of .    See  Towne. 

 ,  chamberlain  of.    See  Tunstall. 

 ,  wardrobe  of,  87,  232. 

 ,   ,  keeper  of.    See  Plummer. 

Henry  VII.,  338. 

Henry,  duke  of   Normandy   (Henry  II)., 

charter  of,  370, 
Henry,  king  of  Castile  and  Leon,  474. 
Henry  ap  Griffith,  60. 
Henry  ap  Thomas  ap  Griffith,  ISl. 
Henry  the  butcher,  561. 
Henrykson,  Cornelius,  306. 
HensaufiP,  in  Brittany,  474. 
Henscote,  Heuyscote,  Nicholas,  584. 
Henshagh.    See  Humshaugh. 
Henstede,  Thomas,  579. 
Henster,  Humphrey,  14. 
Henton.    See  Hinton. 
Henton,  John,  prior  of  Bruton,  533. 
Henxgrove  [co.  Oxford],  603. 
Henxsell.    See  Hinxhill. 
Heny.    See  Henuy. 

Henyngham.  See  Hedingham  ;  Hevenyng- 
ham. 

Henyngham,  Alice,  404,  538. 

 ,  John,  490,  606. 

 ,  ,  the  elder,  538. 

 ,   ,  the  younger,  538. 

Hepworth,  co.  Suffolk,  78,  254. 

Herbert,  Harbert,  Anne,  countess  of  Pem- 
broke, 174,  204,  364. 

 ,  John,  54,  57,  102,  132,  198,  288,  289, 

317,  429. 

 ,  Richard,  54,  57,  58,  102,  275,  288, 

335,  535. 

 ,   ,  Margaret  his  wife,  275,  335, 

535. 

 ,  Thomas,  23,  54,  262,  429,  445,  446, 

448,  454,  614. 
 ,  sheriff  of  Somerset  and  Dorset, 

95. 

 ,  ,  the  elder,  24,  183.  454. 

 ,   ,  the  younger,  109,  454. 

 ,  William,  185,  260,  275,  335,  429, 

535. 

 ,   ,  lord,  22,  25,  29,  49,  51,  54,  57, 

58,  62,  102,  103,  12?,  194,  522,  614. 


Herbert,  William,  earl  of  Pembroke,  111-113, 
132,  163,  166,  170,  174,  175,  183,  185, 
188,  193,  204,  275,  330,  364,  454. 

 ,   ,  sheriff  of  Carnarvon,  212. 

 ,   chief  justice  of  North  Wales, 

41,  lo(i. 

 ,   ,  chief  justice  of  South  Wales, 

165. 

 ,  chamberlain  of  North  Wales, 

1.54,  165. 

 ,  ,  chamberlain  of  South  Wales, 

165. 

 ,  ,  lord  of  Dunster,  132. 

 ,   ,  second  earl  of  Pembroke,  174, 

175,  185,  204,  275,  283,  289,  317,  330, 

344,  364,  523,  566,  583. 

 ,   ,  chief  justice  of  North  Wales, 

275. 

 ,   ,  chief  justice  of  South  Wales, 

275. 

 ,   ,  chamberlain  of  South  Wales, 

275. 

Herberton.    See  Harberton. 
Herborogh.    See  Harborough. 
Herbotell,  John,  317. 
Herdwyk.    See  Hardwick. 
Harefeld,  Richard,  242. 
Hereford.    See  Harford. 
Hereford,  4,  55,  92,  108,  140,  148,  460,  466, 
536,  542. 

...   ,  mayor  and  bailiffs  of,  54. 

 ,  mayor  of.    See  Barton. 

 cathedral  of,  365,  448. 

 ,   ,  dean  and  chapter  of,  448,  501. 

 ,  college  of  vicars  in,  365. 

 ,  ,  ,  Richard  Gardener,  warden 

of,  365. 

 ,  diocese  of,  109,  274,  277,  294,  425, 

464,  505,  543,  557. 

 ,  bishopric  of,  447,  467. 

 ,  bishop  of.    See  Stanbery  ;  Millyng. 

 ,  charter  dated  at,  112. 

 ,  county  of,  55,  57,  58,  70,  93,  103, 

108,  163,  172,  191,  219,  220,  252,  284, 
288,  289,  329,  347,  350,  388,  390,  407, 
411,  421,  429,  430,  462,  492,  496,  574, 
605,  606. 

 ,   ,  sheriff  of,  101,  163,  219,  220, 

284,  288,  350,  407,  429,  450,  463,  492. 

 ,   .<4nrf  see  Catesby ;  Monyugton. 

 ,   escheator  in,  35,  333,  467,  598. 

  And  see   Harper;  Walwyn  ; 

Shirley. 

 ,  outlawries  in,  4,  164,  501. 

 subsidy  and  ulnage  of  cloth  in, 

329,  347,478. 
 ,  commissions  of  the  peace  in, 

615. 

Herell,  David,  597. 
Herevy,  William,  365. 

 ,  Mary  his  wife,  365. 

Heriott,  Hariott,  William,  514. 


GENERAL  INDEX. 


715 


Heriot,  William,  sheriff  of  Middlesex,  234. 
Herfrey,  Peter,  384. 
Herksted.    See  Harkstead. 
Herle,  Jcihn,  275,  535. 

 ,   ,  Margaret  his  wife,  535. 

Herlesey.    ^ee  Harlsey. 
Herlyng,  Harlyng,  John,  614. 
Herman,  John,  2. 

 ,  William,  78. 

 Agnes  his  wife,  78. 

Hermesthorp,  John  de,  warden  of  the  hospital 

of  St.  Kathariue  by  the  Tower  of 

London,  135. 
Hermona,  co.  Cornwall,  467. 
Hernage.    See  Harnage. 
Heme,  Heron,  co.  Kent,  80,  302,  589. 
Heme, Hern,  Roger,  350,  407,  490,  624. 

 William,  76. 

Heron.    See  Heme. 
Heron,  John,  406,  463. 

 ,  Richard,  468,  583,  596. 

 ,  William,  141. 

 ,   ,  Joan  his  wife,  141. 

Herpford.    See  Harpford. 

Herringthorpe,  Heryugthorpe,  co.  York,  73. 

Herryson,  Henry,  119. 

 ,  William,  257. 

Hersyng,  James,  80. 
Hert,  John,  389,  428,  463. 
 ,  Nicholas,  82. 

 ,  le,  Lyhert,  Walter,  bishop  of  Norwich 

[1446-1472],  223,  227,  228,  298,  344, 
366,  373,  383,  622,  630. 

Hertelegh.    See  Hartley. 

Hertford,  485. 

 county  of,  61,  87,  88,  99,  106,  126, 

192,  195,  199,  218,  222,  232,  273,  285, 
329,  337,  348,  350,  353,  363,  407,  430, 
462,  492,  494,  49G,  594. 

 ,  sheriff  of,  250.  252,  285,  286, 

350,  407,  492,  494. 

 ,    And  see  Ruynford  ;   Writull  ; 

Ree. 

 ,   ,  eschcator  in,  98,  107,  186,  205; 

265,  330,  332,  391,  400,  416,  597. 
 ,   And  see  Appulton;  Braugh- 

yng ;  Ree. 

 outlawries  in,  6-8,  36,  72-74, 

80.  144,  255,  320,  322,  325,  381,  384, 
431,  436,  443,  476,  577. 

 ,   ,  subsidy  and  ulnage  of  cloth  in, 

329,  348. 

 ,   ,  commissions  of  the  peace  in, 

616. 

Herthill.    See  Harthill. 
Herthill,  John,  218. 
Herthurst.    See  Hartest. 
Hertilbury.    See  Hartlcbury. 
Hertillingborogh.    See  Irthlingborough. 
Hertilond.    See  Hartland. 
Hertishorn,  William,  285,  349,  607. 


Hertwell.    See  Hartwell. 
Hertwell,  John,  68. 
Hertyng.    See  Harting. 
Hervy,  George,  559. 

 ,  John,  285,  348,  349,  559,  C07. 

 ,   ,  Agnes  his  wife,  559. 

 ,  Nicholas,  129,  172,  182. 

 ,  Simon,  352. 

 ,  Thomas,  104,  405,  504. 

  ..,  Walter,  322. 

 ,  William,  476. 

Herward,  Richard,  320. 
Heryng,  William,  578,  589. 
Heryson,  Richard,  554. 

  William,  55. 

Hese,  CO.  Middlesex,  53. 
Hesell.    See  Hessle. 
Hesilwod.    See  Hesslewood. 
Hesketh,  Robert,  426. 
Hesount,  Thomas,  224. 

Hessle,  Hesell,  Hesyll ,  [co.  York] ,  47,  3153, 
354. 

Hesslewood,  Hesilwod  [co.  York],  323. 
Hesyll.    See  Hessle. 
Hete,  John,  436. 

Heth,  John,  prebendary  of  Bishopstoue,  141. 

Hethe.    See  Hythe. 

Hethe,  Thomas,  253. 

Hether,  Thomas,  256. 

Hethingham,    See  Hediugham. 

Heton.    See  Hcaton. 

Heton,  John,  72,  142. 

 Richard,  158. 

Heveningham,  co.  Suffolk,  397. 
Hevenyngham.    See  Hevingliam. 
Hevenyngham,  Hcnyngham,  John,  197,  246, 

248,  352,  353,  405,  406,  408,  623,  631. 
 ,  ,  sheriff  of  Norfolk  and  Suffolk, 

309. 

Hever,  John,  383. 

Heverlond.    See  Uaveringland. 

Hevinghani,  Hevenyngham,  co.  Norfolk,  93, 

387,  504. 
Hewat,  Robert,  326. 

Hewe,  Thomas,  parson  of  Lashani.  106,  239. 
Hewet,  William,  383. 

 ,  ,  Agnes  his  wife,  383. 

Hewke,  Andrew,  579. 
Hewyk,  John,  278. 

Hewys,  Thomas,  parson  of  Blofield,  434. 
Hexham,  co.  Northumberland,  St.  Andrew's, 

prior  and  convent  of,  240. 
Hextall,  Hexstall,  Thomas,  276,  302,  324. 
Hexte,  Thomas,  351. 
Hextou,  Thomas,  471. 
Heydon,  Henry,  387,  434,  623. 

 ,  John,  245,  247,  249. 

  And  see  Haydon. 

Heyer,  John,  324. 

Heyford,  Nether,  co.  Northampton,  387. 


716 


GENERAL  INDEX. 


Heygham.    See  Higham. 
Heyland,  co.  Essex,  131. 
Heylesden.    See  Hellesden. 
Heyn,  John,  192. 
Heynes,  John,  20,  223,  432. 

 ,  Eichard,  102. 

 ,  Thomas,  75. 

 ,  William,  75. 

Heynescote,  Nicholas,  584. 
Heyneworth.    See  Hainworth. 
Heyno,  Hayno,  Thomas,  629. 
Heyreman.    See  Hayreman. 
Heyron,  John,  533. 

Heytesbury,  Haightesbury,  Heightesbury,  co. 

Wilts,  139,  306. 
Heytfeld,  John,  349.  i 

 ,    And  see  Haytfeld. 

Hey  ward,  John,  171. 

Heywod,  Thoinas,  dean  of  Lichfield,  391. 

HiceheQ.    See  Hitchin. 

Hichecok,  Hychecoke,  Thomas,  566. 

Hide.    See  Hyde. 

Higford,  William,  441,  625. 

  And  see  Hugford. 

Higham,  Hygham,  co.  Devon,  36. 

 ,  Hegham,  co.  Kent,  convent  of,  564. 

 ,  Margaret  Botiller,  prioress  of,  564. 

 ,  Margaret  Squyer,    sub-prioress  of, 

564. 

  And  see  Iham. 

Higham,  Heygham,  Thomas,  the  younger, 

246,  248,  631. 

 ,  William,  502. 

Highanger.    See  Ongar,  High. 

High  Bray,  Hautbray,  co.  Devon,  466. 

Highester.    See  Easter,  High. 

Highgate,  co.  Middlesex,  373. 

High  Hampton,  Highaunton  by  Sbepeswasshe, 

CO.  Devon,  27. 
Highonger.    See  Ongar. 
High  Roding,  co.  Essex,  1 92. 
High  Week,  Highweke,  co.  Devon,  37. 
Hiham.    See  Iham. 

Hilborough,  Hilberworth,  co.  Norfolk,  163. 
Hildersham,  co.  Cambridge,  223. 
Hilderwell  [co.  York],  483,  487. 
Hill,  CO.  Southampton,  81. 
Hill,  Ilille,  Hyll,  Hylle,  Clement,  168,  201, 
208. 

 Genevieve,  594. 

 ,  John,  75,  93,  103,  146,  147,  182,327, 

594. 

 ,  Marjory,  254. 

 ,  Nicholas,  146. 

 Richard,  97,  98,  403. 

 ,  Robert,  139,  407,  630. 

 ,  Thomas,  581,  587. 

 ,   ,  sheriff  of  London,  546. 

 ,  William,  7,  74,  320,  386. 

Hillard,  Robert,  the  elder,  354. 


Hill  Crome,  co.  Worcester,  7,  211. 
Hillersdon,  Andrew,  60. 
Hilles,  John,  44. 

 ,  Richard,  44. 

Hilleton,  co.  Cornwall,  467. 
Hillyard,  Robert,  the  elder,  199. 
Hilton,  Hylton,  co.  Huntingdon,  599. 
Hilton,  Hylton,  Thomas,  vicar  of  Aslackby, 
385. 

  And  see  Hylton. 

Hingham,  Hengham,  Hyngham,  co.  Norfolk, 
212,  591. 

Hinton,  Henton  Dawebedeney,  co.  South- 
ampton, 436. 

 Prior,  [co.  Somerset],  499. 

 ,  Broad,  Brodehanton,  co.  Wilts.,  146. 

 ,  Little,  Littlehenton,  co.  Wilts.,  578, 

589. 

Hinxhill,  Henxsell,  co.  Kent,  448. 
Hinxton,  Hengston,  co.  Cambridge,  297,  560. 
Hirdon,  co.  Devon,  61. 
Hirstcourtnay.    See  Hurst  Courtney. 
Hitchin,  Hicchen,  Huchj-n,  co.  Hertford,  77, 

322,  514,  542. 
Hithe.    See  Hythe. 
Hithe,  Hythe,  William,  406. 
Hithingham.    See  Hedingham. 
Ho.    See  Hoo. 

Hoar  Cross,  Horecrosse    (in  Yoxall),  co. 

Stafford,  546. 
Hobard,  Hobert,  James,  352,  353,  406,  408, 

539,  575,  605,  631. 

  And  see  Hubard. 

Hobbes,  John,  31. 
Hobbys,  Ralph,  564. 

 ,  William,  the  king's  surgeon,  211. 

Hoberd,  Richard,  250. 
Hobson,  Thomas,  286. 
Hoby,  Howeby,  co.  Leicester,  290. 
Hoby,  Robert,  377. 

Hockley,  Hokkley,  co.  Essex,  169,  252,  288. 
Hockwold,  Hoke  wold,  co.  Norfolk,  146,  191. 
Hocryng,  John,  6. 

Hoddesdon,  Hodesdon,  co.  Hertford,  123. 
Hoddilstou,  Richard,  482. 
Hodelston,  John,  40,  312. 

  A7id  see  Hudleston. 

Hodges,  Thomas,  144. 
Hodgeson,  John,  258,  328. 
Hodson,  Hugh,  277. 
Hody,  Alexander,  65,  193,  194,  522. 
 ,  John,  193,  194. 

 ,  William,  339,  406,  427,  464,  490, 

628. 

Hogat,  Hoget,  James,  336. 
Hoge,  William,  476. 
Hogekyns,  Thomas,  82. 
Hogeson,  Robert,  214. 
Hoggekynson,  John,  515. 
Hoggeston,  co.  Buckingham,  380. 


GENERAL  INDEX. 


717 


Hoggys,  John,  381. 

Hogstborpe,  Hoggesthorpe,  co.  Lincoln,  508, 

528,  595. 
Hoigges,  William,  225. 
Hokehawes,  co.  Middlesex,  111. 
Hokelscote.    See  Hugglescote. 
Hokeson,  John,  385. 
Hokewold.    See  Hockwold. 
Hokregge,  John,  6. 
Hokyngton.    See  Oakington. 
Holand,  Christopher,  606. 

 ,  John,  580,  581. 

 ,  Ralph,  144. 

 ,  Robert,  380. 

 ,  Thomas,  431. 

 ,  ,  parson  of  Marke,  275. 

 ,  William,  vicar  of  Abkettleby,  580, 

581. 

Holbache,  Thomas,  157. 
Holbeach,  co.  Lincoln,  96. 
Holbeam,  Holbame,  co.  Devon,  60. 
Holbek,  William,  mayor  of  York,  239,  355, 
377. 

Holbeme,  John,  the  younger,  60. 
Holberton.    See  Halberton. 
Holbroke,  Thomas,  10. 
Holbrook,  Holbroke,  co.  Devon,  156. 

 ,  CO.  Suffolk,  564,  590. 

Holcombe  Rogus,  co.  Devon,  78. 
Holcote,  John,  268. 

Holcote,  Halcote,  John,  escheatorin  Bedford, 
and  Buckingham,  56,  191. 

  And  see  Hulcote. 

Holdeham,  co.  Devon,  24,  25,  511. 

Holder,  Walter,  172. 

Holdernesse,  co.  York,  168,  354,  490. 

Holdesworthy.    See  Ilolsworthy. 

Holdford,  Holford,  co.  Somerset,  256. 

Holdwill,  CO.  Devon,  36. 

Hole.    See  Hale. 

Holegill,  Holgyll  [co.  Cumberland],  606. 
Holewell,  Philip,  74. 
Holewey,  John,  385. 

Holford,  CO.  Gloucester,  hundred  of,  44,  162, 

244,  536,  592. 

  Arid  sec  Holdford. 

Holgrave,  John,  405,  462,  632. 
Holgyll.    See  Holegill. 
Holgylles  Were,  111,  188. 
Holland,  113,  353,  479. 

 Holand,  co.  Essex,  480. 

 ,  Great,  480. 

 ,  CO.  Lincoln,  508. 

  And  see  Lincoln. 

Holland,  Anne,  first  duchess  of  Exeter,  36. 
 ,  ,  duchess  of  Exeter,  the  king's 

sister,  32,  137,  303,  360,  374,  413. 
 ,  Anne,  her  daughter,  33,  137. 

 Henry,  duke  of  Exeter,  32,65,  121, 

283,  607,  617,  624. 


Holland,  Edmund,  earl  of  Kent,  23. 
HoUingbourns,  Holyngbourne,  co.  Kent,  312. 
Hollington,  Holyngton,  co.  Susisex,  prebend 
of,  155. 

HoUoway,  Holway,  co.  Devon,  27,  473. 

 ,  CO.  Middlesex,  373. 

Holme,  in  North  Muskham,  co.  Nottingham, 
316. 

Holme  Archiepiscopi,  prebend  of,  323. 
Holme,  CO.  Cumberland,  550. 
Holmecultrani,  co.  Cumberland,  abbot  and 

convent  of,  600,  601. 
Holme,  Alan,  215. 

 ,  Hugh,  216. 

 ,  John,  199,  666,  569. 

 ,  Thomai,  Norroy  king  of  arras,  37. 

 ,  William,   chaplain    of    '  Kavenser- 

chauntry  '  in  Lincoln  cathedral,  48. 
Holmenden,  John,  435. 
Holmer,  Richard,  51. 
Holmes,  Thomas,  146. 
Holneherst,  John,  302. 
Holond,  Thomas,  60. 
Holowes,  Robert,  377. 
Holston.    See  Holverston. 
Holsworthy,  Holdesworthy,  co.  Devon,  32, 

137. 

Holt,  CO.  Norfolk,  424. 
Holt,  Alexander,  441. 

 ,  Edmund,  341,  421. 

 ,  Hugh,  204. 

   ,  Alice  his  wife,  20 

 John,  226. 

 ,  prior  of  Ravenstone,  332. 

 ,  William,  327. 

Holton  Beckeriug,  Howton  by  Bekoring,  co. 

Lincoln,  183. 
Holverston,  Holston,  co.  Norfolk,  76. 
Holway.    See  Holloway. 
Holyer,  John,  437. 

 ,  Ralph,  331. 

 Richard,  437. 

Holy  Land,  189. 

 pilgrimage  to,  341,  368. 

Holymiiu,  John,  380. 
Holyu,  John,  216. 
Holynden,  John,  300. 
Holyngbourne.    See  Ilollingbourne. 
Holyngworth,  James,  176. 
Holy  Sepulchre,  the,  97. 
Holywell,  Helwell,  co.  Lincoln,  93,  242. 
Homcastell.    See  Hamcastle. 
Homer.    See  Hummer. 
Homynglowe.    See  Horninglow. 
Honitou,  CO.  Devon,  61,  99,  589. 
Honing,  co.  Norfolk,  144. 
Honingtou,  co.  Lincoln,  472. 
Honnesworth.    See  Handsworth. 
Honshawe.    See  Iluiitsliaw. 
I   Houydcu.    See  Huuduu. 


718 


GENERAL  INDEX. 


Hoo,  Ho  CO.  Kent,  370. 

 hundred  of,  300. 

 ,  CO.  Sussex,  42,  437,  585. 

Hoo,  John,  224. 

 ,  Thomas,  130,  199,  351,  405,  638. 

 William,  322. 

Hoode,  John,  436. 

 ,  William,  236. 

Hook,  Houke,  co.  York,  483,  486,  487. 

Hoorne,  Robert,  42. 

Hooton,  Ralph,  464. 

Hope,  CO.  York,  470,  483,  486,  487. 

 ,  East,  483,  486. 

 ,  West,  483,  486. 

Hope,  CO.  Flint,  32,  137. 
Hopedale,  co.  Flint,  32,  137. 
Hope  Mansel,  Hopemeleysell,  co.  Hereford, 
140. 

Hoperton,  John,  490. 
Hopkyn,  John,  110. 
Hopkyns,  John,  176. 
 ,  William,  153. 

 ,   ,  parson  of   South  LufEenham, 

113. 

Hoppyng,  John,  154. 

Hopton,  CO.  Salop,  521. 

Hopton,  David,  prebendary  of  St.  George's, 

Windsor,  348,  596. 

 ,  ,  parson  of  Bletchley,  399. 

 ,  Edward,  616,  628. 

 ,  Joan,  453, 

 ,  John,  249,  631. 

 Robert,  249,  353. 

 ,  Roger,  162,  490,  496,  592. 

 William,  199,  353,  490,  631,  638. 

 ,   ,  of  Swillingtou,  408,  572,  638. 

Hopwaswode,  in  Cannock  forest,  co.  Stafford, 

12,  15. 

Horbling,  co.  Lincoln,  508,  560. 
Horde,  John,  9,  80. 

 ,  Thomas,  247,  249,  407,  429,  627. 

 ,  William,  400. 

Hordle,  Hordyll,  co.  Southampton,  580. 
Hordley,  co.  Oxford,  436. 
Hore,  William,  38,  445. 
Horebridge.    See  Horrabridge. 
Horecrosse.    See  Hoar  Cross. 
Horethorne,  co.  Somerset,  hundred  of,  339. 
Horewode,  Eleanor,  572. 

 ,  John,  the  first,  571,  572. 

 ,   ,  Katharine  his  wife,  571,  572. 

 ,  John,  the  second,  572. 

 ,   Elizabeth  his  wife,  572. 

 John,  the  third,  572. 

 ..,  William,  571. 

Horham,  co.  Suffolk,  323. 
Horley,  co.  Surrey,  326. 
Horlock,  Richard,  168. 

Hormead,  Horuemede,  co.  Hertford,  297,  556. 


Horn,  Home,  Gervase,  218. 

 ,  John,  100,  254. 

 ,  Thomas,  100,  249. 

 ,  William,  100,  223,  254,  316. 

 ,   ,  parson  of  Bisley,  19. 

Hornby,  co.  Lancaster,  600. 

 ,  CO.  York,  185,  241,  551. 

Horncastle,  Hornecastell,  co.  Lincoln,  213, 
297. 

Hornchurch,  co.  Essex,  375,  388. 
Horndon,  co.  Essex,  169,  252,  288,  465. 

 West,  VVesthordon,  co.  Essex,  297. 

 House,  CO.  Essex,  345. 

Hornefeld,  in  Empingham,  co.  Rutland,  508. 

Hornemede.    See  Hormead. 

Horninglow,  Homynglowe,  co,  Stafford,  95. 

Hornington,  co.  York,  47. 

Hornse,  William,  223. 

Hornsea,  Hornsebek,  co.  York,  381. 

Horrabridge,  Horebridge,  co.  Devon,  61. 

Horseley,  Horsley,  Roger,  303,  365. 

 Thomas,  356. 

 ,  William,  335. 

Horseudon,   Horsyngdon,   co.  Buckingham, 

55,  96,  471,  472. 
Horsey,  co.  Somerset,  457,  530. 
Horsey,  Thomas,  32,  33. 
Horsford,  co.  Norfolk,  267. 
Horsford,  John,  380. 
Horsham  St.  Faith,  co.  Norfolk,  504. 
Horsington,  co.  Somerset,  270. 
Horsley,  co.  Derby,  482. 

  See  Horseley. 

Horsted  Keynes,  co.  Sussex,  290. 
Horston,  Horestou,  co.  Dei-by,  441,  482. 
Horsyngdon.    See  Horsenden. 
Horton  [co.  Devon],  36. 

 ,  CO.  Southampton,  504. 

 ,  CO.  Surrey,  253. 

 ,  CO.  Wilts.,  533. 

 ,  HawtOD,  CO.  York,  46,  307. 

Horton  Ke}'  in  Southwark,  co.  Surrey,  52, 

184,  201. 
Horton,  Richard,  77. 

 ,  ,  Millicent  his  wife,  77. 

Horwich,  co.  Lancaster,  142. 
Horwode,  John,  the  elder,  519. 

 the  younger,  519. 

  And  see  Horewode. 

Hosley,  co.  Salop,  192. 
Hosteler,  John,  571. 
Hosyer,  John,  384. 

 ,  Ralph,  256. 

Hothum,  Ralph,  490,  609. 
Hotoft,  Richard,  225,  246,  248. 

 Robert,  288. 

Hotofte,  Edonia,  425. 

 ,  John  425. 

Hoton.    See  Hutton. 


GENERAL  INDEX. 


719 


HotoD,  John,  30. 

 ,  Richard,  276,  360. 

 Walter,  528. 

Hotot,  CO.  Gloucester,  453. 
Hotot,  John,  578. 

 ,  Robert,  578. 

Houchons,  Robert,  216. 
Houe,  John,  73. 

Houidenshire.    See  Howdenshire. 

Hough  in  Stamfordham,  co.  Northumberland, 

228,  236. 
Houghton,  CO.  Bedford,  191. 

 ,  Howton,  CO.  Norfolk,  191. 

 ,  Great,  co.  Northampton,  60. 

 ,  Little,  327. 

 ,  Hanging,  256. 

Houghton,  Alexander,  426,  572. 

 ,  Henry,  426. 

 ,  John,  475,  476. 

 ,  Thomas,  52. 

 ,  William,  80. 

Houke.    See  Hook. 

HouU.    See  Kingston  on  Hull. 

Houndbeare,   Huntebeare    [in  Aylesbeare], 

CO.  Devon,  24,  25. 
Hounds,  34,  266,  444. 

Hounslow,  CO.  Middlesex,  Holy  Trinity,  friars 
of,  67. 

 ,  Richard,  prior  of,  67. 

Hourd,  Hourde,  William,  83,  197. 
Hous,  Peter,  263,  439. 
House,  George,  87. 

 ,  Joan  his  wife,  87. 

Household,  the,  21,  40,  86,  98,  116,  155,  156, 

178,  200,  231,  234,  237,  298,  359,  396, 

398,  401,  477,  481,  528,  537,  547,  589. 
 treasurer  of,  21,  35,  40,  86,  89,  515, 

2'04,  231,  473,  481,  506,  537,  547,  555, 

  And  sec  Howard;  Fogge  ;  Elringtou. 

  steward    of,    298,    313,   359,  377, 

388,  396,  398,  399,  401,  402,  413,  418, 

437,  458,  459. 

 And  see  Tiptoft ;  Bourchier  ;  Stanley. 

 ,  esquires  of,  40,  92,  98,  100,  237,  261, 

265,  278,  281,  296,  394,  410,  453,  480, 

461,  518. 

 cofferer  of,  93,  441. 

 ,  chapel  of,  243,  295. 

 ,  ,  dean  of.    See  Dudley. 

 ,  confessor  of,  440. 

 ,  buyer  of,  35,  89,  98,  377,  388,  418, 

473. 

 ,  clerk  of  the  market  of,  239. 

 ,  purveyors  of,  109,  437,  458,  506,  602. 

 ,  eatery  of,  86,  231,  389. 

 marshalsea  of,  367. 

 ,   ,  coroner  of,  158,  263. 

 ,  caterer  of,  156. 

 ,  carriage  of,  208,  260,  409,  458,  555. 

 ,  stuff  of,  20«. 


Household,  the,  ferreter  of,  40l,  458. 

 ,  avenary  of,  289,  377,  399,  401,  459. 

 ,  bakery  of,  89,  156. 

  poultry  of,  313,  377,  413,  459. 

Housham  Hall,  Ovisham  Hall  (in  Matching), 

CO.  Essex,  192. 
Houton,  Richard,  104,  230. 
Hovekirke,  in  Picardy,  89,  177,  272. 
Hoveman,  Henry,  605. 
Hovingham  in  Rydale,  co.  York,  74. 
How,  William  atte,  44. 
Howard,  Agnes,  9. 

 ,  John,  9,  132,  171,  203,  484,  494. 

  lord,  199,  204,  5.38,  545,  547, 

648,  583,  60.5,  608,  613,  622,  631. 

   ,  treasurer  of  the  household,  98, 

387,  516. 

 >  ,  sheriff  of  Oxford,  382,  383. 

 ,  Margaret,  203. 

 ,  Thomas,  564,  605,  623. 

Howbrake,  John,  64. 
 ,  Thomas,  214. 

Howbridge,   Howbregge    [in   Witham],  co. 

Essex,  521. 
Howden,  co.  York,  143. 
Howdenshire,  Houedoushire,  co.  York,  251. 
Howeby.    See  Hoby. 
Howeden,  John,  286. 
Howell,  CO.  Lincoln,  412. 
How«ll,  Philip,  225,  321 

 ap  Jevan  Vazhan,  40. 

Howet,  Robert,  461. 
Howingham,  co.  Devon,  343. 
Howpe,  George,  216. 

Howren,  Thomas,  prebendary  of  York,  323. 
Howsham,  Howsom,  co.  York,  418. 
Howsome,  John,  216. 

Howth,  Houth,  lord  of.   .See  Sancto  Laurencio. 
Howthorpe,  Ouchethorpe,  co.  York,  257. 
Howton.    See  Holton  ;  Houghton. 
Howton,  ['eter,  6. 
Hoxhill,  William,  5. 
Hoxue,  CO.  Suffolk,  223,  383. 
Hubard,  James,  100,  631. 

  And  see  Hobard. 

Huberdby,  co.  Cumberland,  !3. 
Huby,  Robert,  prior  of  Holy  Trinity,  York, 
355. 

Huchesou,  Henry,  438. 
Huchons,  Robert,  498. 
Huchonson,  Henry,  438. 
Huchyu.    .See  Hitchiu. 

Huddesfeld,  Huddelcsfeld,  Huttysfeld,  Wil- 
liam, 127,  246,  247,  288,  403,406-408, 
428,  522,  530,  567,  612. 

  aftorucy-general,  399. 

Huddesson,  William,  341. 
Hudgrey,  Joan,  499. 
  .John,  499. 


720 


GENERAL  INDEX. 


Hudleston,  Huddelston,  Hudilston,  Henry 
623. 

 .John,  218,  42G,  610. 

  ,  ,  sheriff  of  Cumberland,  208. 

 ,  Eichard,  610. 

 ,  Thomas,  218. 

 ,  William,  218. 

Hudson,  Hugh,  214. 

 ,  John,  78,  81. 

 Richard,  81. 

Huet,  Richard,  604. 

Hugford,  Huggeford,  Hygford,  Hyggeford, 
John,  64,  218,  246,  247,  331,  348,  359, 

405,  410,  614,  634. 

 ,   ,  sheriff  of  Warwick  and  Lei- 
cester, 136. 

 ,  Thomas  77,  218,  634. 

  And  see  Higford. 

Hugglescote,  Hokelscote,  co.  Leicester,  27, 
517. 

Hughryde,  Robert,  568. 
Hughson,  John,  535. 
Hughterby.    See  Oughterby. 
Hugyn,  John,  533. 

 ,   ,  escheator  of  Somerset  and 

Dorset,  596. 
Huish,  Huyssh  by  Heybrygge,  co.  Somerset, 

194,  522. 
Huknall,  Thomas,  309. 
Hulcot,  Ahce,  485. 
Hulcote,  John,  327,  363,  525. 
Hulcotes,  John,  405,  624. 
Hull.    See  Kingston  on  Hull. 

  -water,  co.  York,  428. 

Hull,   Henry,   9,   196,   220,  284,  350,  351, 

406,  613,  628. 

 John,  140. 

 ,  Robert,  323. 

 William,  140. 

Hulme,  CO.  Norfolk,  abbey  of  St.  Benet,  227, 

228,  298. 

 ,  convent  of,  230,  298. 

 John  Kevyng,  abbot  of,  230,  298. 

Thomas  Pakefeld,  abbot  of,  227,  228, 

298. 

 ,  Thomas,  abbot  of,  504. 

Huls,  Master  Andrew,  keeper  of  the  privy 
seal,  146. 

Humbleyard,  Humlyerd,  co.  Norfolk,  hundred 

of,  82,  159. 
Humber  river,  572. 
Humfrey,  Richard,  460. 

 ,  Thomas,  169. 

Humlyerd.    See  Humbleyard. 
Hummer,  Homer,  co.  Somerset,  32,  33. 
Humphrey,  duke  of  Gloucester,  64,  310. 
Humshaugh,  Henshagh,  co.  Westmoreland, 

523. 

Hundburton,  co.  York,  483,  486,  487. 
Hunden,  John,  bishop  of  Llaudiiff  [1458- 

1476],  287,299,  o98. 
Hundmanby.    See  Huumanby. 


Hundon,  Houyden,  co.  Suffolk,  89. 

Hundyrpoimd,  Thomas,  502. 

Hungerford,  co.  Berks,  45,  53,  381,  552,  583. 

 Farlegh.    See  Farleigh  Hungerford. 

Hungerford,  Edmund,  50,  218,  247. 

 ,  Edward,  218,  319. 

 ,  John,  247,  257. 

 ,  Robert,  lord,  306,  311,  467. 

 ,   ,Margarethis  wife,  306,  311,467. 

 ,  Robert,  lord  Hungerford  and  Moleyns, 

65,  139,  152,  346,  368,  467. 

 ,   ,  Eleanor  his  wife,  152,  368. 

 ,  Walter,  340,  393,  548. 

 ,  lord,  306,  311. 

 ,  treasurer  of  England,  229. 

 ,   ,  Katharine  his  wife,  306,  311. 

Hungerston,  co.  Hereford,  450,  463,  505. 
Huumanby,  Hundmanby,  co.  York,  541. 
Hunsdon,  Hundesdon,  co.  Hertford,  596. 
Hunston,  Henry,  144. 
Hunt,  Hunte,  Edward,  374,  375. 

 ,  Hugh,  7,214,  553. 

 ,  John,  2,  143,  180,  308,  578,  597. 

 ,  Robert,  155. 

 ,  Thomas,  128,  235,  248,  255,  256, 

276,  329,  348,  408. 

 ,  ,  clerk  of  the  works,  337,  348. 

 ,  Thomas,  prior  of  Walsingham,  225, 

-326. 
 ,  William,  7. 

 ,  ,  abbot  of  St.  Augustine's  by 

Bristol,  399. 
Hunt  Court,  Hunthous  in  Sburdington,  co. 

Gloucester,  541. 
Huntebeare.    See  Houndbeare. 
Hunteley.    See  Huntley. 
Hunter,  Christopher,  216. 

 ,  John,  215,  441. 

 ,  Richard,  214,  277. 

Huntingdon,  co.  Huntingdon,  28,  336,  501. 
 ,  county  of,  33,  88,  100,  114,  127,  138, 

195,  199,  218,  232,  285,  329,  348,  350, 

352,  367,  406,  430,  462,  492,  493,  496, 

504,  513,  644,  601. 
 ,  ,  sheriff  of,  114,  252,  285,  350, 

406,  462,  492,  493,  544. 
 ,   ,  escheator  in,  205,  271,  332,  400, 

481. 

  And  see  Pilkington  ;  Laurence. 

 ,   ,  outlawry  in,  6. 

 ,   ,  subsidy  and  ulnage  of  cloth  in, 

329,  348,  476. 
 ,   ,  commissions  of  the  peace  in, 

617. 

Huntingfield,  co.  Kent,  240. 
Huntley,  co.  Gloucester,  397,  541,  562. 
Huntley,  Hunteley,  Hugh,  64,  57,  58,  60,  198, 
219,  289,  317. 

 ,  John,  33. 

 ,  Thomas,  33. 

  ,   ,  Isabel  his  wife,  33. 


GENERAL  INDEX. 


721 


Hunton,  Richard,  249. 
Iluntshaw,  Honshawe,  co.  Devon,  5. 
Hunstpill  Marsh,  Hunspille  Maris,  co.  Somer- 
set, 437,  530. 
Huntyngton  [co.  Hereford],  175. 
Hurde,  Thomas,  54. 

 ,  William,  378. 

Hurdewyke,  Nicholas,  119. 
Hurley,  Rose,  7. 
Hurst,  CO.  Berks,  136. 
 ,  CO.  Wilts,  242. 

  Courtney,  Hirstcourtnay,  co.  York,  1. 

Hurstley,  Hurtesley,  co.  Hereford,  521. 
Hurtesley.    See  Hurstley. 
Hurtre,  Baldwin  de,  100. 
Hushan,  .laket,  493. 

Hushorne    Crawley,    Hu»hondcrowley,  co. 

Bedford,  344. 
Huse,  Husee,  Husse,  Husy,  Gilbert,  580,581. 

 ,  Mark,  249. 

 ,  Nicholas,  104. 

 victualler  of  Calais,  20. 

 ,   sheriff  of  Surrey  and  Sussex, 

20. 

 ,  Peter,  prebendary  of  Lincoln,  313. 

 ,  Thomas,  247,  249,  351,  406,  565,  573, 

613. 

  William,  28,  170,  285,289,  350,  352, 

3.55,  418,  490,  614,  620,  621,  627,  632, 
633. 

 ,  ,  attorney  general,  292,  299,399, 

517,  523,  585,  599,  601. 
Huske,  Philip,  317. 
Huswyfe,  Elizabeth,  436. 

 ,  Thomas,  436. 

Huswyff,  Roger,  200. 
Husy.    See  Huse. 

Hutton,  Hoton   [co.  Westmoreland],  334, 
531. 

 CO.  York,  20,  419. 

Huttysfeld.    See  Huddesfeld. 
Huyshille  [co.  Devon],  36. 
Huyste,  John,  115. 

 ,   Lucy  his  wife,  115. 

Hybson,  John,  2»6. 
Hychecoke.    See  Hichecok. 
Hyde,  co.  Hertford,  588. 

  by  Winchester,  co.  Southampton, 

abbey  of,  360,  365. 

 ,  convent  of,  359. 

 ,  Henry,  abbot  of,  359. 

 ,  Thomas  Wirscetur,  abbot  of,  360, 

365. 

Hyde,  Hide,  Baldwin,  prebendary  of  Has- 
tings, 155. 

 ,   ,  prebendary  of  St.  George's, 

Windsor,  155,  233,  348. 

 ,   ,  clerk  of  Parliament,  232. 

 Christopher,  386. 

 .John,  142,  237,  289. 

y  96180. 


Hyde,  Margaret,  340,  416. 
 ,  Richard,  230. 

 ,  ,  esoheator  in  Southampton  and 

Wilts,  296,  542. 

 William,  202,  340. 

 ,  ,  escheator  of  Oxford  and  Berks, 

174. 

Hyet,  James,  484,  490,  495. 

 ,  Roger,  484. 

Hygans,  John,  406. 

Hygford,  Hyggeford.    .See  Hujford. 

Hyklyn,  John,  202. 

Hyll,  Hylle.    See  Hill. 

Hyllyng,  Thomas,  533. 

Hylton.    See  Hilton. 

Hylton,  Hugh,  505. 

Hylyard,  Robert,  407,  637. 

Hynde,  .lohn,  92,  145. 

Hyndeley,  William,  386. 

 ,  Joan  his  wife,  386. 

Hyote,  Richard,  20. 
Hyremore  [co.  Berks],  573. 
Hyrne,  Thomas,  321. 
HjTst,  John,  3. 

Hythe,  Hithe,  Hethe,  co.  Kent,  265,  302,  319. 


L 

Ibberton,  Ebberton,  co.  Dorset,  457,  529. 

Ibstock,  CO.  Leicester,  143,  225. 

Ichyngham,  Thomas,  288. 

Ickham,  Ikham,  co.  Kent,  42. 

Iddesleigh,  Edysleght,  co.  Devon,  486. 

Ide,  Yde,  co.  Devon,  187. 

Idelstre.    See  Elstree. 

Idewyn,  .John,  499. 

Iffley,  Yefteley,  co.  Oxford,  U. 

Ifield,  CO.  Sussex,  575. 

Iford,  CO.  Sussex,  192. 

Iham,  Iliham,  Highaiu,  co.  Sussex,  441. 

Iken,  Ikne,  co.  Suffolk,  14. 

Ikham.    See  Ickham. 

Ham,  John,  parson  of  Shelton,  274. 

llchester,  Ivclcestre,  Yevelchestre,  Ylcestre, 

CO.  Somerset,  39,  84,  86,  93,  194,  335, 

473,  590. 
Udergate,  Thomas,  300. 
Ileshamstede.    See  Isenhampstead. 
Ilfracombe.  Ilforcombe,  co.  Devon,  port  of, 

393. 

Ilketeshall,  co.  Suffolk,  34,  132,  224. 
Ilkston,  listen,  William,  226,  384,  386. 
lUehershe,  co.  Devon,  36. 
Illeigh.    See  Eleigh. 

lUyngworth,  Elingworth,  Richard,  12,  141, 
170,  171.  246,  248,  399,  632,  636- 
638, 

Z  Z 


722 


GENERAL  INDEX. 


Illyngworth,  Richard,  chief  baron  of  the  Ex- 
chequer, 226,  229. 

Ilmer,  co.  Buckingham,  472. 

Imber,  Immer,  Inmer,  co.  Wilts,  311,  327, 
373,  381,  400. 

Immeslowe  in  Sherwood,  co.  Nottingham, 
443. 

Ingarsby,  Inguerdby,  co.  Leicester,  123. 

Ingham,  Ingam,  John,  447. 

Ingleby,  John,  417. 

 ,  William,  417. 

Inglefield,  Thomas,  524. 

 ,   ,  Joan  his  wife,  524. 

Ingleton,  Ingilton,  Robert,  106,  112,  126,  177, 
246,  247,  267,  608. 

Inglewood,  Englewode,  Ingeliswode,  co.  Cum- 
berland, forest  of,  16,  43,  183,  275,  280, 
281,  303,  341,  360,  556,  557,  567, 
596. 

Inglose,  Robert,  353. 
Inglot,  Henry,  383. 

Ingoldesby,  John,  118,  387,  317,  407,490, 
613. 

 ,  ,  baron  of  the  Exchequer,  31, 

211. 

 ,  Thomas,  339. 

 ,  William,  614. 

Ingoldmells,  co.  Lincoln,  204,  508. 

 ,  East,  580. 

Ingolmelserysby,  co.  Lincoln,  508. 
Ingolsby,  co.  Nottingham,  297. 
Ingowe,  CO.  Northumberland,  228,  236. 
Ingram,  John,  prior  of  Penmon  and  Prest- 

holme,  122. 
Ingrave,  Gymgrauf,  co.  Essex,  297. 
Ingworth,  co.  Norfolk,  387. 

 ,00.  Suffolk,  93. 

Inmer.    See  Imber. 

Innocent,  Thomas,  144. 

Inse,  Edmund,  249. 

Instow,  Yendestow,  co.  Devon,  36. 

Ippecras,  John,  81. 

Ipplepen,  co.  Devon,  384,  577. 

Ipswich,  Epyswych,  Yepiswiche,  co.  Suffolk, 

14,  142,  202,  257,  318,  382,  418,  435, 

597. 

 ,  port  of,  15,  159,  160,  166,  167,  180, 

216,  229,  230,  259,  262,  263,  268,  269, 
313,  330,  410,  476,  513. 

 ,  ship  called  le  Margarete  of,  87. 

Irchenfield,  Urchonfeld,  co.  Hereford,  397, 
411,  451,  539,  561,  590. 

Ireland,  Irish,  15,  16,  21,  28,  29,  59,  62,  110, 
122,  127,  133,  157,  159,  162,  167,  193, 
207,  213,  214,  234,  243,  259,  272,  274, 
304,  343,  -.iU,  395,  402,  414,  420,  438, 
459,  467,  468,  473,  474,  491,  497,  516, 
520,  522,  524-526,  530,  539,  561,  570, 
572. 

 ,  Parliament  of,  193,  474,  598. 

 chancellor  of,  466. 

  And  see  Debenham. 


Ireland,  chancery  of,  keeper  of  the  rolls  of. 

See  Colt ;  Norreys. 

 ,  great  seal  of,  466. 

 ,   ,  letters  patent  under,  161,  193, 

592. 

 ,  lieutenant  of.    See  George  ;  Tiptoft. 

 ,   ,  deputy  of.    See  Tiptoft;  Sher- 
wood. 

 ,  treasurer  of,  31,  205. 

 ,  admiral  of.    See  Richard;  Neville. 

 ,  primate  of.    See  Bole  ;  Walton. 

 ,  exchequer  of,  chief  baron  of.  See 

Cornwalshe. 
 ,  King's  Bench  in,  chief  ju»tice  of.  See 

Chevir. 

 ,  Serjeant  at  arms  in,  31. 

Ireland,  Edward,  230. 

Irelond,  Irlond,  George,  146,  171,  498,  578. 

 ,  ,  Margaret  his  wife,  146. 

Ireton,  Ralph  de,  bishop  of  Carlisle  [1280- 
1292],  17. 

Irthlingborough,  Artilburgh,  Hertillingborogh, 

CO.  Northampton,  142,  344. 
Isabella,  queen  of  Edward  II.,  559. 
Isaak,  Isak,  John,  75,  302,  445,  571. 

 ,  William,  494. 

Isam,  Richard,  383. 
Isbury,  John,  608. 
Iseham.    See  Isham. 
Iselham.    See  Isleham. 

Isenhampstead  Latimers,  co.  Buckingham,  94. 
Isham,  Iseham,  co.  Northampton,  500. 
Isham,  Iseham,  Robert,  170,  373,  405,  562, 
623. 

Isle  de  Batz,  Bazainsula  (in  Finistere),  in 

Brittany,  474. 
Isleham,  Iselham,  co.  Cambridge,  279. 
Isleworth,  Istilworth,  co.  Middlesex,  117. 
Isley,  John,  219,  352. 

 ,   ,  sheriff  of  Kent,  477. 

Istilworth.    See  Isleworth. 
Italy,  134,  510,  557. 

Itteringham,  Itryngham,  co.  Norfolk,  146. 
Ive,  John,  3. 

 ,  ,  Agues  his  wife,  3, 

 Ralph,  380. 

...   ,  Richard,  426. 

 ,  Thomas,  49,  426,  435,  622,  632. 

 ,  William,  233,  296. 

Ivelcestre.    See  Ilchester. 
Iver,  CO.  Buckingham,  45. 
Ivers,  William,  464. 
Iveton.    See  Ivyton. 

Ivinghoe,  Ivyngho,  co.  Buckingham,  135, 394. 
Ivington,  Yvington,  co.  Hereford,  449. 
Ivychurch,  Ivechirch,  co.  Kent,  283,  546. 

 ,  CO.  Wilts,  prior}'  of,  15,  16. 

 ,  canons  of,  1 5. 

 ,  Robert  Stokys,  prior  of,  15. 

 ,  Dan  Edward  Thacham,  prior  of,  15, 

16. 


GENERAL  INDEX. 


723 


Ivyton,  Iveton,  Yeveton  [in  Broomfield],  co. 

Somerset,  194,  200,  330  364,  522. 
Iwade,  Iwode,  co.  Kent,  333. 
Iwerne   Courtney,   Yewern  Courteney,  co. 

Dorset,  4.')7,  518,  557. 
Ixning,  CO.  Suffolk,  380. 
Ixnynge.    See  Exning. 

Ixworth,  Robert,  abbot  of  Bury  St.  Edmunds, 
186,  470. 


J. 

Jachery.    See  Jakharry. 
Jacke  Hykke,  William,  327. 
Jackson,  Robert,  523. 
Jacob,  William,  29,  115,  193,  200. 
Jacobe,  John,  326. 

Jakharry,  Jacherry,  Peter,  54,  104,  354. 
Jakeraan,  John,  513. 
Jakes,  John,  524. 

 Robert,  mayor  of  Bristol,  119. 

Jakson,  Alan,  435. 

 ,  John,  73,  214,  277,  515,  571. 

 ,  Richard,  131. 

Jakys,  Thomas,  y85. 

James,  king  of  Scotland,  409. 

James,  Andrew,  393. 

 ,  John,  489. 

 ,  Laurence,  214,  277. 

 ,  Robert,  214. 

 ,  Thomas,  214,  277. 

Jamys,  Bartholomew,  169. 
Jannys,  Richard,  4. 
Janyn,  John,  395. 
Janyns,  John,  459. 
Janyver,  William,  9. 

Jaquetta,  duchess  of  IJedford,  190,  327,  334, 

343,  584. 
Jardyn,  William,  363. 
Jarse,  Thomas  de,  197. 
Jay,  Jaye,  John,  471,  545. 
 Richard,  246,  404,  405,  429,558,  571, 

572,  629. 
Jenkyns,  Thomas,  616. 
Jenkynson,  Richard,  85. 
Jenney,  Genuey,  Edmund,  387. 

 ,  John,  245,  247,  623. 

 ,  Richard,  493. 

 Thomas,  387. 

 ,  William,  170,  250,  387,  406,  408,  610, 

624,  6:)1,  635-638. 
Jenyn,  Geoffrey,  94. 
Jenyns,  John,  298,  377. 

Jepcracks,   Gyppecrake    [in  Totham],  co. 

Essex,  345. 
Jerbrygge,  CO.  Norfolk,  22,  530,  531, 


Jenny,  John,  408. 

Jermyn,  Hugh,  mayor  of  Exeter,  250. 
Jernemuth.    See  Yarmouth. 
Jerrald,  Ralph,  290. 
Jer.sey,  Jerze,  549. 
 ,  people  of,  124. 

Jervaux,  Jorvall,  co.  York,  abbot  and  convent 
of,  346. 

 ,  William,  abbot  of,  346. 

Jevan  Vaghan  ap  Jevan  ap  JoUyn  ap  David, 
210. 

Jewels,  120,  121. 

Joan,  queen  of  England,  531. 

Joce,  Richard,  378,  610. 

  William,  7,  118,  203,  353,  552. 

Johans,  John,  69. 

John,  king  of  England,  charters  of,  34,  131, 

328,  413,  423,  459,  538. 

 ,  cDunt  of  Mortain,  charter  of,  370. 

John,  David,  436. 

 ,  Hugh,  119. 

  Louis,  129,  248,  249,  614. 

 ,  Pety,  319. 

 ,  William,  468,  511. 

 ,   ,  parson  of   Llaubadarn  Vawr, 

106, 

John  ap  Griffith,  191. 

  ap  Herry,  78. 

  ap  Price,  447. 

  ap  Richard,  102,  142. 

  ap  Roger  Vanghan,  429. 

  ap  Thomas,  40. 

Johns,  Louis,  450,  471. 

  William,  287. 

Johnson,  Bartholomew,  472. 

 Christopher,  438. 

 Cornelius,  104. 

 ,  Geoffrey,  34. 

 Griffith,  34. 

 Henry,  585. 

 ,  James,  106. 

 John,  515. 

 ,  ,  incumbent  of  the  chapel  of  St. 

John,  Southbroke,  in  South  Weald,  co. 

Essex,  437. 

 Nicholas,  2S. 

 Peter,  393. 

 ,  Richard,  487,  512. 

 Robert,  389. 

 ,   Agnes  his  wife,  389. 

 ,  Thomas,  49,  331. 

 ,  William,  214,  277,  503. 

  Vanmelom,  Henry,  42. 

Joliffe,  Martin,  583. 
Jones,  Jonys,  John,  276. 

 ,  Nicholas,  276. 

 ,  Richard,  276. 

 ,  William,  357. 

Joones,  John,  109. 

z  z  2 


724 


GENERAL  INDEX. 


Jordan,  Henry,  383. 

 ,  John,  148,  580. 

  And  see  Jurdan. 

Jordayn,  Edmund,  251. 

Jorvall.    See  Jervaux.  • 

Joseph,  John,  104,  290. 

 ,  Richard,  325. 

 ,  William,  305,  567. 

Josselyn,  Ralph,  617. 
Jouetes,  Richard,  304. 
Joye,  Godfrey,  197. 

 ,  John,  450. 

 ,  Richard,  29. 

Joyner,  Gummer,  421. 
Joynour,  Richard,  317,  498. 

 ,  Thomas,  405,  406. 

Jue,  John,  81. 
Julie,  Thomas,  325. 

 ,  William,  257. 

Jurdan,  Henry,  579. 

 ,  John,  122. 

 ,  William,  256. 

  And  see  Jordan. 

Justinian,  Dardus,  435. 

 ,  Humphrey,  435. 

Justiuiano,  Anthony,  213. 
Juye,  Roger,  501. 

 ,  ,  Blanche  his  wife,  501. 

Juyu,  Thomas,  justice  of  the  Bench,  434. 


K. 

Kalverhill.    See  Galver  Hill. 

Kampen,  iu  the  hishopric  of  Utrecht,  184. 

Karleton.    See  Carlton. 

Katrike,  John,  177. 

Kayleway,  Cayleway,  Robert,  435. 

 ,  William,  55,  57,486,613. 

Kayme,  William,  184. 
Kaynell,  Richard,  428. 

 ,  William,  428. 

Kayser,  Thomas,  168. 

Kayton,  Richard,  54. 

Kaywode.    See  Cawode. 

Keal,  East,  Estcrkele,  co.  Lincoln,  580. 

 ,  West,  Westerkele,  508. 

Kebeell,  Kebyll,  Thomas,  517,  619. 
Kebell,  Walter,  4,  81. 
Kechon,  Richard,  215. 

 ,  Robert,  215. 

Kedewyn.    See  Cedewain. 
Kedwelly.    See  Kidwelly. 
Kedyrmynster.    See  Kidderminster. 
Keel,  Kclc  [co.  Stafford],  287. 
Kccll,  George,  321. 
Keerc,  John,  115. 


Keftesgate.    See  Kiftsgate. 
Keggyll,  John,  382. 
Kele.    See  Keel. 
Kelenyke,  36. 

Kelet,  Kelot,  William,  325,  326. 
Kelk,  Kelque,  John,  38. 

 ,  Roger,  427. 

Kellam,  John,  286. 
Kelley,  William,  467. 
Kelling,  co.  Norfolk,  343. 
Kellowe,  co.  Cumberland,  214,  277. 
Kellowe,  William,  216. 
Kelly,  John,  250. 
Kellygrewe,  Thomas,  104. 
Kelmestowe  [in    Romsley,  co.  Worcester], 
396. 

Kelsale,  Kelshale,  Roger,  338,  490,  571. 
Kelvedon,  Kelledon,  co.  Essex,  324,  580. 
Kelyng,  John,  358,  868. 

 ,  Robert,  580. 

Kelyngworth,  Henry,  214. 
Kerne,  John,  469. 
Kemell,  Richard,  453. 
Kemer,  Kymer,  Adam,  149. 

 ,   ,  Agnes  his  mfc,  149. 

 ,  Master  Gilbert,  dean  of  Salisbury, 

160,  565,  566. 

 ,  Nicholas,  565. 

Kemp,  Kerape,  John,  169,  525. 

 ,   ,   archbishop  of  Canterbury, 

[1452-1454],  522. 
 ,  Thomas,  bishop  of  London    [1450 — 

1489],  107,  190,  232,265,  267,  272, 

339,  388,  391,  460,  613,  616,  617,  621. 
Kempston,  co.  Bedford,  533. 

 ,  Hardwick,  co.  Bedford,  576. 

Kempton,  Kenyton,   Koldekennyngton,  co. 

Middlesex,  269,  437,  538. 

 ,  charter  dated  at  376. 

Kemsey,  John,  407. 
Kemsing,  co.  Kent,  578. 

Kemys,  Kemmys,  Roger,  407,  427,  454,  490, 
614. 

Ken,  Robert,  162. 

Kendal,  co.  Westmoreland,    106,  177,  334, 
531,  532. 

Kendale,  John,  68,  93,  171,  490,  506,  544. 
Kendall,  John,  mayor  of  Bridgewater,  356. 

 Ralph,  440. 

 William,  8,  49,  331. 

Kene,  Robert,  171. 

  Thomas,  presented  to  the  chantry  of 

Newton  Poppleford,  358. 
Kenefare.    See  Kinfare. 
Kenegy,  Thomas,  380. 
Kenet,  Henry,  249. 
Kenett,  Thomas,  303. 
Kenette,  Robert,  590. 
Kenford,  by  Ken,  co.  Devon,  595. 
Kenilworth,  co.  Warwick,  4f    50,  331,  482, 

604. 


GENEKAL  INDEX. 


725 


Kenilworth,  letters  patent  dated  at,  475,  490, 
634. 

Kenne,  co.  Devon,  24,  51. 
Kensington,  co.  Middlesex,  560. 
Kenston,  Kenstan,  Edmund,  37. 

 ,  Thomas,  37,  255. 

Kent,  county  of,  37,  43,  56,  71,  87,  88,  101, 

182,  195,  199,  218,  219,  222,  232,  242, 
284,  285,  298-302.  329,348,  352,  373, 
376,  407,  421,  428,  430,  455,  462,  489, 
492,  494,  496,  558,  571. 

 ,  .sherifiFof,  37,  56,  71,  92,  127, 

183,  198,  219,  240,  285,  352,  407,  489, 
492,  493. 

  And  see  Gilford  ;  Brown  ;  St.  Leger  ; 

Ferrers;  Culpeper;  I'ekliam  ;  Broms- 

ton  ;  Isley ;  Ilauto. 

 ,  ,  escheator  iu,  391,  597. 

  Aiid  see  Boteler  ;  Willy  ;  Towe  ; 

Seyntler;  CliflFord;  Garnet;  Sliordich. 
 ,   ,  outlawries  in,  1,  5,  79,  80,  143, 

148,  202,  254,  255,  325,  380,  383,  385, 

432,  435,  436,  501,  502,  575-577,  579, 

580. 

 ,  ,  subsidy  and  ulnage  of  cloth  in, 

282,  329,  348,  478,  505. 

 (Commissions  of  the  peace  in,  617. 

 ,  earl  of .    See  Grey;  Holland. 

 river  [co.  Westmoreland],  334,  531. 

Kent,  Geoffrey,  216,  476,  552. 

 John,  575. 

 ,  Marion,  575. 

 Matthew,  80. 

 ,  Nicholas,  326. 

 ,  Richard,  287. 

 Master  Thomas,  53,  132. 

 ,   secondary  iu  the  office  of  the 

privj'  seal,  554,  570. 
Kentbury,  co.  Berks,  93,  223. 
Kentcombe,  co.  Dorset,  457,  529. 
Kentford,  co.  Suffolk,  93. 
Kentisbeare,  Kcntesbeare,  co.  Devon,  76. 
Kenulf,  king  of  the  Mercians,  charter  of,  136. 
Kenyton.    See  Kemptoii. 
Kerby.    See  Kirby  ;  Kirkby. 
Keriell,  John,  496. 

Kerkebystephen.    iSec  Kirkby  Stephen. 
Kermerdyn.    See  Caermarthcn. 
Kerneford.    Sec  Carnforth. 
Kerparby  [co.  York],  483,  487. 
Kerseman,  Thomas,  323. 
Kervcr,  William,  3;?,  59,  85,  88,161,  165,  283, 
337,  540. 

 ,  Eobert,  60. 

Kery.    See  Cery. 

Kesteu,  Richard,  394,  461. 

Keswick,  Keswyk,  co.  Cumberland,  506,  513. 

Kesycg,  Thomas,  500. 

Kethirmynstre.    See  Kidderminster. 

Ketill,  John,  381. 

 ,  ,  Margaret  his  wife,  381. 

Ketleigh,  Ketelegh,  co.  Cornwall,  58. 


Kettering,  Ketcryng,  co.  Northampton,  203, 
435. 

Ketteringham,  Keteryngham,  co.  Norfolk, 
191. 

Kettlebarston,  Ketilbarston  [co.  Suffolk],  65. 

Kettleburgh,  Ketelbergh,  Ketylbere,  co.  Suf- 
folk, 110,  539. 

Kettlewell,  Ketilwell,  in  Craven,  co.  York,  483 
486,  487. 

Ketton,  CO.  Rutland,  504. 

Ketylbere.    .See  Kettleburgh. 

Kevell,  John,  220. 

Kevyng,  John,  abbot  of  St.  Benet,  Hulme, 

230,  298. 
Kexby,  co.  York,  133. 
Keye,  Nicholas,  267. 
Key  ford,  co.  Somerset,  361. 
Keynes,  John,  58. 
Keys,  Roger,  308. 

Keyworth,  Caworth,  co.  Nottingham,  297. 
Kidderminster,   Kedyruiyiistcr,  Ketliirmyn- 

sire,  CO.  Worcester,  80,  274. 
Kidwelly,   Kedwelley,   Kydwelly,  Geoffrey, 

65,  75,  197,  329,  347. 

 ,  Maurice,  218,  329,  347. 

  Morgan,  275,  283",  415,  546,  573, 

613. 

Kiftsgafe,  Keftesgate,  Kyftesgate,  eo.  Glou- 
cester, hundred  of,  44,  162,  244,  536, 
592. 

Kilbyngton.    .See  Kilvington. 

Kilchith,  Nicholas,  382,  498. 

Kildalkey,  Kyldalk,  co.  Meath,  275. 

Kildare,  bishop  of.    See  Lang. 

Kilgerran,  Kilgarren,  co.  Pembroke,  175. 

Kilkhampton,  co.  Cornwall,  168. 

Kilkenny,  Master  William  de,  archdeacon  of 

Coventry,  123. 
Kiliingliolme,  Kyllyngham,  co.  Lincoln,  326. 
Kilton,  Culveton,  co.  Somerset,  330,364,  522. 
Kilvey,  Kylvey,  co.  Glamorgan,  163. 
Kilvington,  Kilbyngton,  co.  Nottingham,  462. 
Kilworth,  co.  Leicester,  letters  patent  dated 

at,  476. 

Kimbolton,  Kymbaltou,  co.  Huntingdon,  141. 
Kineton,  Kyngtou,  Quintone  [co.  Warwick], 
565. 

Kinfare.    See  Kinver. 

King,  the,  passim. 

King's  consort.    See  Elizabeth. 

  brother.     See  Edmund  ;  George 

Richard. 

  sister.    See  Margaret ;  Holland. 

 son.    See  Edward ;  Richard. 

  daughter.    See  Elizabeth  ;  Mary. 

  aunt.    See  Bourchier. 

  alms,  231,  235. 

  almoner.    See  Gunthorpe. 

  under  almoner,  277,  357. 

 chapel,  330. 

 cofferer,  398 


726 


GENERAL  INDEX, 


King's  debts,  11,  43,  53,  59,  82,  85,  88,  97> 
106,  126,  132,  134,  154,  155,  160,  161, 
165,  178,  186,  187,  213,  270,  273,  281, 
283,  337,  388,  389,  394,  466,  468,  472, 
480,  632,  537,  543,  545,  547,  558,  586. 

 hounds,  34,  266,  444. 

  jewels,  496. 

  minstrels,  44,  153,  260,  482,  549. 

  painter,  421. 

  physician.    See  Serego  ;  Friis. 

  secretary.    See  Gervase  ;  Profoote  ; 

HatclifFe  ;  Kjng. 
  ships,  29,  57,  87,  105,  201,  204,  250, 

299,  355,  356,  399,  401,  404,  409,  467, 

471,  494-496,  537. 

 ,  clerk  of.    See  Bo-weman. 

  surgeon.    See  Hobbys. 

  trumpeters,  42,  44,  61,  565,  588,  589. 

Kingesbere.    See  Bere. 

Kinghamford,  Kynghamford,  co.  Kent,  hun- 
dred of,  300. 

Kingsbridge,  co.  Devon,  228. 

Kingsbury  Regis,  co.  Somerset,  339. 

Kingsclere,  co.  Southampton,  571. 

King's  Clipslone,  co.  Nottingham,  441,  482. 

 ,  charter  dated  at,  46.'i. 

Kingsdon,  Kyngesdon  by  Ylchestre,  co. 
Somerset,  211,  457,  518,  557. 

Kingsey,  Kyngesey,  co.  Buckingham,  151, 
345,  472. 

King's  Langley,  co.  Hertford,  151. 

King's  Norton,  Kyngesnorton,  co.  Warwick, 
10. 

 ,  CO.  Worcester,  26. 

King's  Thorpe,  co.  Northampton,  485,  531. 
Kingston,  Kyngeston,  co.  Cambridge,  515. 

  [co.  Berks],  197. 

 ,  CO.  Hereford,  440. 

  Seymour,  co.  Somerset,  435. 

Kingston  on  Hull,  co.  York,  11,  47,  76,  168, 

206,  266,  305,  316,  333,  347,  353,  361, 

379,  496,  525. 

 mayor  of,  252,  353,  571. 

  And  see  Dey ;  Whitfeld. 

.,  ,  sheriff  of,  29. 

 ,  subsidy  and  ulnage  of  cloth  in,  328, 

333,  335,  347,  478,  537. 
 ,  outlawry  in,  381. 

 ,  port  of,  59,  108,  130,  166,  167,  176, 

226,  229,  230,  259,  262,  264,  266-269, 
294,  305,  310,  315,  316,  338,  368,  372, 
399,  514,  521,  545,  549,  558,  566. 

 ,  ship  called  An7ie  of,  264. 

 ,  ship  called  le  James  of,  368. 

 ,  ship  called  le  Trynyte  of,  353. 

Kingston  on  Thames,  co.  Surrey,  67,  93,  124, 

244,  261,  385. 
King's  Wood,  Kyngeswode.  co,  Essex,  forest 
of,  162,  586. 

 ,  CO.  Gloucester,  forest  of,  175,  264, 

412. 

Kington,  Kyngton,  cos.  Warwick  and  Lei- 
cester, 242, 


Kington,  West,  Westkyngston,  co.  Wilts 
456. 

Kinoulton,  Kynalton,  co.  Nottingham,  602. 
Kinver,  Kenefare,  Kynfare,  co.  Stafford,  242, 

346,  513,  530. 

 ,  forest  of,  242. 

Kirby,  Kerby,  co.  Leicester,  139. 

 ,  Kirkeby,  co.  Norfolk,  191. 

  Bedon,  Kyrkebybidon,  co.  Norfolk, 

5V7. 

 Sellers,  Kirkeby,  co.  Leicester,  priory 

of,  23,  39. 
Kirkbampton,  co.  Cumberland,  214. 
Kirkby,  co.  Lancaster,  40. 
 ,  Kirkeby,  Kerby,  co.  York,  215,  304, 

601. 

  in  Kendale,  co.  Westmoreland,  334, 

523,  532. 

  Thore  [co.  Westmoreland],  606. 

  Misperton,  Kirkeby  Mysperton,  co. 

York,  2. 

  Moorside,   Kirkeby   Moresyde,  co. 

York,  2. 

  Stephen,  Kerkebvstephen,  co.  West- 
moreland, 264,  423",  532. 

Kirkeby  on  the  Wreke,  co.  Leicester,  135. 

  Monachorum.    See  Monk's  Kirby. 

  See  Kirby  ;  Kirkby. 

Kirkeby,  Kirkby,  Kyrkeby,  John,  2,  56,  511. 

 ,  Richard,  40,  325. 

 ,  Robert,  abbot  of  Owston,  23,  39. 

 ,  Roland,  14. 

 ,  Thomas,  597. 

 ,  William,  prior  of  Tickford,  376. 

Kirkeham,  Kyrkeham,  Robert,  keeper  of  the 
rolls  of  Chancery,  87,  111,  188. 

 ,   ,  dean  of  St.  Stephen's,  West- 
minster, 1  19,  150,  259. 

 ,  Walter  de,  dean  of  St.  Martin  le 

Grand,  London,  99. 

 William,  503. 

Kirketon.    See  Kirton. 

Kirkhall  in  Rockland,  co.  Norfolk,  515. 

Kirkham,  Kyrkham,  co.  Lancaster,  515. 

 ,  CO.  York,  priory  of,  ]  15. 

Kirkley  Road,  Kyrklod,  co.  Suffolk,  353,  393, 
579,  605. 

Kirk  Oswald,  CO.  Cumberland,  181. 

Kirkstall,  Thomas,  abbot  of,  593. 

Kirkstead,  co.  Lincoln,  Roger,  abbot  of,  286. 

 ,  Ralph,  abbot  of,  621. 

Kirton,  Kirketon,  co.  Lincoln,  457,  529. 

  in  Lindsey,  131,  183. 

Kittle,  Kythull,  co.  Glamorgan,  163,  192. 

Knapton,  co.  York,  483,  486,  487. 

Knapwell,  co.  Cambridge,  6. 

Knaresborough,  co.  York,  378. 

 ,  forest  of,  421. 

Knattishall,  Knatishale  [co.  Suffolk],  562. 

Kneseworth,  Richard,  609. 
Kneton,  co.  York,  334,  531. 


GENERAL  INDEX. 


727 


Knightcote,  Knyghtcote,  co.  Warwick,  64, 
411. 

Knighton,  Knyghton,  co.  Somerset,  3. 

Knighton,  John,  407. 

Knockin,  Knokyn,  co.  Salop,  29. 

Knokvergous.    See  Carrickfergus. 

Kiioldane,  George,  300. 

Knoll  [co.  Devon],  36,  187. 

 CO.  Wilts,  551. 

KnoUes,  John,  199. 

 Robert,  450. 

 ,  ,  Elizabeth  his  wife,  450. 

 ,  Thomas,  336. 

Knot,  William,  322. 
Knotte,  Giles,  101. 
Knottyngley,  John,  48. 
Knoyle,  William,  218,  262,  410. 
Knyfton,  Robert,  C2. 
Knyght,  Leonard,  251. 

 ,  Richard,  165,  580. 

 ,  Robert,  146,  230,  301. 

 ,  Thomas,  252,  354,  552,  573,  621. 

 ,  Walter,  29,  287. 

  William,  84,  381. 

Knyghtley,  Richard,  571. 

 ,   ,  the  younger,  531,  594. 

 ,  the  elder,  .531,  594. 

 ,  ,  Elizabeth  his  wife,  531. 

Knyvet,  John,  169,  197,  245,  247,  249,  350, 

406,  617,  622. 
 .William,  218,  245,  247,  249,250,  406, 

622. 

Knyveton,  Nicholas,  408. 
Koldekennyngton.    See  Kemptou. 
Krakenthorp.    See  Crakenthorp. 
Kryngelesford.    See  Cringleford. 
Kurtenay,  Reginald  de,  13. 
Kyd,  John,  555. 
Kyde,  Roger,  357. 
Kydwelly.    See  Kidwelly. 
Kyfte.sgate.    See  Kiftsgate. 
Kyghley,  Henry,  130. 

 ,  Laurence,  80. 

Kyldalk.    See  Kildalkey. 
Kylegrewe,  Thomas,  54,  57. 
Kyllyngham.    See  Killingholme. 
Kylpe.sham,  William,  abbot  of  Owston,  23. 
Kylvey.    See  Kilvey. 

Kylwilmerssh,  William,  prior  of  Crossechirch, 

Colchester,  89. 
Kymbalton.    See  Kimbolton. 
Kyrabear,  Richard,  145. 
Kymbell,  Thomas,  1 90. 
Kyme,  co.  Lincoln,  218. 

 ,  South,  363. 

Kyme,  John,  285,  286. 

 Thomas,  81,  127,  285,  352,  621. 

 of  Langton,  286,  621. 

 ,  ,  of  Friskeney,  252,  352,  354, 

621. 

 ,  sheriff  of  Lincoln,  482. 


Kymer.    See  Kemer. 
Kynaltou.    See  Kinoulton. 
Kynaston,  Roger,  29,  284,  407,  627. 
Kyng,  John,  1  18,  339,  357,  528. 
 ,  Oliver,  549. 

 ,  ,  the  king's  secretary,  582,  587. 

 ,   ,  warden  of  the  hospital  of  Dor- 
chester, 40 1 . 

 ,  Thomas,  493. 

 William,  6,  380. 

Kyngdou,  Edward,  403,  404,  452. 
Kyngesmyll,  Kyngismyll,  Richard,  374,  404 
429. 

Kyngeston,  Harry,  190. 

 Hugh,  28. 

 ,  Ralph,  166. 

Kynggesey.    See  Kingsej". 

Kyngston,  Thomas,  317. 

Kyngton.    See  Kingston  ;  Kiueton. 

Kyngyisuttou.    See  Sutton. 

Kynnecote,  Walter,  576. 

Kynvare.    See  Kinver. 

Kyppyng,  Thomas,  446. 

Kyrisshawe,  Ralph,  447. 

Kyrk,  Thomas,  579. 

Kyrkeby.    See  Kirkeby. 

Kyrkeham.    See  Kirkeham. 

Kyrkenian,  Thomas,  309. 

Kyrklod.    See  Kirklcy. 

Kyrkstede.    See  Kirkstead. 

Kyrton.    See  Crediton. 

Kyrton,  John,  97,  187,  213,  285,  325,  498. 

Kyrwyn,  William,  446. 

Kyryell,  John,  340,  355,  489,  515. 

 ,  Thomas,  42  5«4. 

 ,  ,  Cecily  hi<  wife,  594. 

Kyte,  Edward,  168. 
Rythull.    See  Kittle. 


L. 

Laan,  Thomas,  575. 
Lacche,  Robert,  116 
Lacy,  Henry  de,  earl  of  Lincoln,  469. 

 John,  452. 

 ,  Thomas,  609. 

Ladbroke,  Lodbroke,  co.  Warwick,  542. 
Ladde,  Richard,  256. 
Lagharn.    See  Laugharue. 
Lagher,  William,  104. 
Laghogh,  CO.  Lancaster,  531. 
Lago,  William,  30. 
Lake,  John,  143. 
 Nicholas,  143. 


728 


GENERAL  INDEX. 


Lake,  Richard,  282. 

 ,  parson   of  High  Ongar,  33, 

234. 

 ,   ,  curate  of  Cattistock,  234. 

 ,  Eobert  atte,  8. 

Lakeford,  Giles,  383. 

 ,  William,  432. 

Laken,  Nicholas,  355. 
 ,  Richard,  168. 

 ,  William,  70,  102,  103,  12V,  128,  170, 

171,  221,  246,  248,  251,  289,  317,  319, 
353,  403,  405,  406,  408,  525,  608,  613, 
616,  618,  622,  632,  633. 

 ,   ,  justice  of  the  King's  Bench, 

163,  227,  229,  258,  264. 

 ,   ,  escheator  of  Salop,  584. 

Lakenheath,  Lakingheth  [co.  Suffolk],  507. 

Lakynghithe,  John,  519. 

Lamana  [co.  Cornwall],  396,  479. 

Lamanva,  John,  1 14. 

Lambard,  Lamberd,  John,  161,  18G,  187, 
225,  381,  383,  558. 

 ,  Thomas,  28. 

Lambe,  Alexander,  214. 

 ,  Emma,  503. 

 ,  John,  230,  503. 

 ,  Philip,  60. 

 ,  Thomas,  141. 

Lamberd.    See  Lambard. 

Lamberdes,  co.  Gloucester,  534. 

Lambeth,  Lambhith,  co.  Surrey,  414. 

Lamble,  Alexander,  277. 

 ,  John,  214,  277. 

 ,  William,  277. 

Lamborne,  co.  Essex,  173. 

Lambrigg,  co.  Westmoreland,  532. 

Lambside,  Lammeshede,  co.  Devon,  60. 

Lamburn,  Nicholas,  251. 

Lamelleu,  Lamelyu  [in  St.  Tudy],  co.  Corn- 
wall, 389,  444. 

Lammer,  John,  446. 

Lamnan,  Robert,  li6. 

Lamonoy,  Lamunoy,  co.  Cumberland,  40. 

Lampeter,  Lanbadar,  burgesses  of,  369. 

Lampleugh,  Robert,  490. 

Lamplewe,  Thomas,  610. 

Lamplogh,  Thomas,  sheriff  of  Cumberland, 
181. 

Lanbadar.    See  Lampeter. 
Lancaster,  duchy  of,  178,  378,  446,  448,  506, 
558. 

 ,   ,  re:eiver    general    of.  See 

Sharpe. 

 ,  county  of,  26,  131,  219,  290,  427, 

490,  496,  515,  525,  573. 

 ,  ,  chancellor  in,  35. 

 ,   ,  shenfifof,  490. 

Lancastre,  John,  parson  of  Workington, 
417. 

 ,  parson  on  Sutton  on  Derwent, 

417. 


Lancastre,  Richard,  524. 

 ,  Roger,  288. 

 ,  William,  288. 

Landawarnek.    See  Landewednack. 
Landawarnek,  Thomas,  327. 
Landewednack,  Landawarnek,  co.  Cornwall, 
327. 

Landhilp.    See  Landulph. 
Landilik.    See  Landulph. 
Landimore,    Landymour,    co.  Glamorgan, 
163. 

Landmoth,  Lanmote,  co.  York,  365. 
Landrene,  Landryan,  co.  Cornwall,  457,  529. 
Landue  in  Lezant,  co.  Cornwall,  224. 
Landulph,  Landhilpe,  Landilik,  co.  Cornwall, 

410,  593. 
LandussuU.    See  Llandyssil. 
Landwade,  co.  Cambridge,  275. 
Lane,  Edward,  580. 

 ,  John,  88. 

 ,  Richard,  38. 

 Thomas,  60,  61,  609. 

Lanercost,  charters  dated  at,  425,  459. 

Lanforth.    See  Laugford. 

Lang,  Richard,  bishop  of  Kildare  [1464- 

1474],  193,  259. 
Langacre,  co.  Devon,  32,  1 37. 
Langbargh,  co.  York,  483,  486. 
Langdon,    Longdon    [co.  Westmoreland], 

334. 

Langdon  Hall,  co.  Essex,  297,  560. 
Langeley,  Thomas,  248,  249. 
Langelode.    See  Long  Load. 
Langenneth.    See  Llangenydd. 
Langeporte,  Master  Richard,  521. 
Langeston.    See  Langston. 
Langeton.    See  Longton. 
Langeton,  Walter  de,  bishop  of  Coventry  and 

Lichfield  [1296-1321],  425. 
Langford,  Langforth,  co.  Nottingham,  109. 
Langford,  Edward,  406,  608. 

 ,  John,  398. 

 Nicholas,  248,  349,  408,  611. 

 ,  Richard,  3. 

 ,  Thomas,  57,  552,  608. 

 ,  William,  125. 

Langham  [co.  Rutland],  212. 
Langholme,  co.  Cumberland,  13. 
Langholme,  John,  363. 
Langley,  co.  Hertford,  136. 

 ,  charter  dated  at,  465, 

 CO.  Kent,  93,  109. 

 CO.  Norfolk,  93. 

Langley,  Langlee,  Edmund,  271. 

 ,.,  Henry,  609. 

 ,  John,  136. 

 ,   ,  the  elder,  271. 

 ,  ,  the  younger,  271. 

 ,  Walter,  271,  614. 

 ,   ,  Isabel  his  wife,  271. 


GENERAL  INDEX. 


729 


Langley,  William,  271. 

 ,  Ihomas  de,  93,  565. 

Langmede,  John,  mayor  of  Dartmouth,  198. 
Langport,  co.  Kent,  hundred  of,  300. 
Langport  Estover,  co.  Somerset,  339. 

  Westover,  339. 

Langrake,  co.  York,  179. 
Langshawe,  Henry,  602. 
Langstan,  Langeston,  John,  196,  285,  350, 

406,  608,  626. 
Langstone  in  Caerleou,  co.  Monmouth,  561. 
Langstrother,  John,  prior  of   the  hospital 

of  St.  John  of  .Jerusalem  in  England, 

165,  177,  189,  217,  229,  231,  232,  239, 

248. 

 ,   ,  treasurer  of  England,  165,  176, 

177,  229. 

 Richard,  parson  of  High  Ongar,  33. 

Langthorns,  Laugtous,  in  Little  Canfield,  co. 
Essex,  192. 

Langthwaite,  Langqwhatc  [co.  Cumberland] , 
215,  277. 

Langthwayte,  Thomas,  72. 

 ,  William,  72. 

Langto,  Thomas,  323. 

Langtoft,  Thomas,  424. 

Langton,  co.  York,  32,  137. 

Langton  Herber,  in  Sherwood,  co.  Notting- 
ham, 447. 

Langton,  John,  372,  428,  439,  503,  558. 

Laugtree,  co.  Devon,  36. 

Langwathby,  483,  486,  487. 

Lauhargy,  Elias,  42. 

Lanhern,  co.  Cornwall,  280. 

  And  see  Arundell. 

Lanihorne,  Lanyheyron,  Lavynhorn,  co.  Corn- 
wall, 421,  457,  529. 

Lanmote.    See  Landmoth. 

Lannargh,  John,  427. 

Lanoycff.    See  Llanddowyn. 

Laupley,  Thomas,  349. 

Lanreath,  Lanreythowe,  co.  Cornwall,  346. 

Lansallos,  Lausalwys,  co.  Cornwall,  72. 

Lanthony  by  Gloucester,  co.  Gloucester, 
prior  and  convent  of,  504,  520. 

 Henry,  prior  of,  504. 

Lanyheyron.    See  Lanihorne. 

Lardener,  John,  432,  503. 

Larder,  Thomas,  221,  476. 

Large,  Walter,  10. 

 ,  William,  424. 

Larke  Dale,  479. 

Larkfield,  Larkefeld,  co.  Kent,  hundred  of, 
300. 

Larlingford,  Lirlyngford,  co.  Norfolk,  562. 
Larom,  John,  502. 

Lartington,  Lartyngton,  co.  York,  483,  487. 

Lacy,  John,  452. 

Laseilles  [in  Brittany],  198. 

Lasenby,  John,  215. 


Lasham,  Lasseham,  co.  Southampton,  106, 

239,  337. 
Lassant.    See  Lezant. 
Lassy,  Henry,  439. 
Lastichiall.    See  Lostwithiel. 
Lasyngby.    See  Lazenby. 
Lasyngby,  Kobert,  78. 
Lathe,  Robert  att,  519. 
Lathell,  Nicholas,  441,  537. 
Latimer,  lord  of,  94. 

  And  see  Neville. 

Latin,  Philip,  175. 
Latomer.    See  Latymer. 
Laton,  Nicholas,  215. 

 ,  Thomas,  215. 

Latoner,  William,  226. 
Latton  Merk,  co.  Essex,  23. 
Laty,  Richard,  201. 

Latymer,  Latomer,  Nicholas,  90,  218,  247, 

284,  346,  351,  406,  613. 
Laufare.    See  Laver. 

Laugharue,  Lagharn,  co.  Caermarthen,  59. 
Laughton,  Gilbert,  366. 

Launce,  John,  parson  of  Weston  by  Beccles, 
347. 

Launcell,  co.  Cornwall,  119. 

Launceston,  Launceuetou,  Alanceston,  co. 

Cornwall,  27,  58,  116,  442,  598. 
Laund,  Thomas,  77. 

de  la  Launde,  Thomas,  218,  297,  508,  543, 
560,  567. 

 ,  Katharine  liis  wife,  560. 

Launditch,  Laundyssh,  co.  Norfolk,  hundred 
of,  191. 

Laurence,  Laurens,  Henr)',  75. 

 ,  John,  6,  428,  571,  6o7. 

 ,   ,  escheator  in   Cambridge  aud 

Huntingdon,  227,  253. 

 ,  Richard,  84,  496. 

 Simon,  322. 

  William,  182. 

Lavaunta,  co.  Cornwall,  104. 

Lavenham,  co.  Suffolk,  297,  534,  543,  545, 

547,  563,  507,  579. 
Laver,  Laufare,  Little,  co.  Essex,  50,  398. 
Laverok,  Robert,  353. 

Lavington,  Lavyngton,  co,  Lincoln,  26,  516, 
517. 

Lavynhorn.    See  Lanihorne. 
Lawe,  Richard,  58  I. 
Lawcdy,  William,  605. 
Lawelee,  .lohn,  608,  627. 
Laweles,  Simon,  2U8,  217,  571. 

 ,  Thomas,  168. 

Lawson,  Lauson,  William,  463,  605. 
Laxham,  Dame  Elizabeth,  abbess  of  Barking 

388,391. 
Laxton,  Thomas,  173. 
Lay.    See  Lecq. 
Laycy,  Richard,  427. 
Laydenz,  Guy,  198. 


V30 


GENERAL  INDEX. 


Layer  Marney,  Leyremarney,  co.  Essex,  1 55, 
345. 

Layham,  Leygham,  co.  Sufifolk,  25. 

Layland,  John,  515. 

Layton,  John,  313. 

Lazenby,  Lasyngby,  co,  York,  1. 

del  Le,  Alice,  16. 

 ,  William,  16. 

Lea  river,  28. 
Lea,  Lee,  co.  Derby,  499. 
Leadenham,  Ledenham,  co.   Lincoln,  457, 
530. 

Leake,  Leke,  co.  Lincoln,  81,  146. 

 ,  CO.  York,  365,  503. 

Learn,  Martin,  313. 
Leamyng.    See  Leeming. 
Leaton,  Leton,  co.  Salop,  304. 
Lebaill,  Guy,  198. 
Lebarnour,  Yvo,  521. 
Lebihan,  John,  198. 
Lebroier,  Rio,  198. 

Lecche,  Thomas,  parson  of  Risington  Wick, 
461. 

Leche,  Robert,  214,  277. 

Lechlade,  Lecchelade,  co.  Gloucester,  361. 

 ,  hospital  of  St.  John  Baptist,  361. 

 ,  ,  William  Lovell,  prior  of,  361. 

Leckonfield,  Lekynfeld,  co.  York,  427. 

Lecq,  Lay,  in  Jersey,  alien  priory  of,  549. 

Ledenham.    See  Leadenham. 

Leder,  Richard,  251. 

Ledes.    See  Leeds. 

Ledornguen,  William,  521. 

Ledys.    See  Leeds. 

Ledys,  William,  70,  71. 

Lee  river,  co.  Cork,  592. 

Lee,  CO.  Rutland,  forest  of,  451,  528,  555. 

  And  see  Leighfield. 

  See  Lea. 

Lee,  Alexander,   parson  of  St.  Nicholas, 
Calais,  260. 

 ,  canon  of  Windsor,  412. 

 ,  Edmund,  215. 

 ,  James,  304. 

 ,  John,  228,  320,  505. 

   ,  Margaret  his  wife,  320. 

 ,  John  de,  476. 

 ,  Nicholas,  576. 

 ,  Ralph,  627. 

 ,  Richard,  7,  9,  618. 

 5  mayor  of  London,  186. 

 ,  Thomas,  408. 

 ,  William,  70,  405. 

  And  see  Legh. 

Leece,  Lees,  co.  Lancaster,  456. 

Leader,  Richard,  293. 

Leeds,  Ledes,  co.  Kent,  109,  182,  374. 

 ,  prior  and  convent  of,  374. 

 ,  Robert,  prior  of,  374. 

 ,  Ledes  by  Rothwell,  co.  York,  209. 


Leefeld.    See  Leighfield. 
Leegh,  Ralph,  86. 
Leek  [co.  Stafford],  142. 
Leek,  John,  285. 

 ,  John  de,  sheriff  of  Nottingham  and 

Derby,  130. 
 ,  Thomas,  501. 

Leeke,  William,  vicar  of  St.  Stephen's,  Col- 

manstrete,  London,  69. 
Leeming,  Leamyng,  co.  York,  483,  486. 
Leen,  Lene  river,  co.  Nottingham,  310,  311, 

446. 

Lees.    See  Leece. 
LegaUois,  John,  521. 

Leget,  Helmyng,  constable  of  Windsor  Castle, 
133. 

Leggam,  Robert,  288. 
Legge,  Bartholomew,  116. 

 ,   Joau  his  wife,  116. 

 ,  William,  355,  386. 

Legh,  Master  Alexander,  parson  of  St.  Bride's, 

Fleet  Street,  London,  553. 

 ,  Edmund,  214. 

 ,  John,  546. 

 ,  the  elder,  449. 

 ,   ,  the  younger,  449. 

 ,  William,  219,  490,  610. 

  A7id  see  Lee. 

Leghton.    See  Leighton. 

Lego,  Matthew,  531. 

Leicester,  66,  144,  212,  213,  386. 

 ,  letters  patent  dated  at,  396,  399,  440. 

 ,  abbey  of  St.  Mary  de  Pratis  by,  329, 

330,  475. 

 ,  ,  convent  of,  123,  461. 

 ,   ,  abbot  of,  39. 

 ,   ,  John  Pomeroy,  abbot  of,  123, 

461. 

 ,   ,  John    Sepyshede,    abbot  of, 

475. 

 ,  county  of,  88,  91,  93,  104,  106,  196, 

199,  206,  218,  246,  248,  284,  284,  287, 
292,  329,  348,  350,  359,  401,  405,  428, 
430,  457,  462,  466,  481,  492,  496,  513, 
529,  535,  540,  562. 

 ,  ,  sheriff  of,  284,  287,  350,  405, 

492. 

 ,    And  see  Harecourt ;  Higford ; 

Throgmarton  ;  Wodford  ;  Raylegh. 
 ,   ,  escheator  in,   39,    153,  205, 

271,  292,  330,  332,  416,  475. 

 ,    A7id  see  Warde  ;  Boughton. 

 ,   ,  outlawries  in,  8,  77,  142,  145, 

146,  225,  263,  389,  434,  501. 

 ,  ,  subsidy  and  ulnage  of  cloth  in, 

329,  348,  478. 

 ,  ,  commissions  of  the  peace  in, 

618. 

Leigh,  Lye,  Lyght,  co.  Essex,  373,  525. 

 ,  Ligh,  CO.  Gloucester,  397,  541,  562. 

 ,  North,  Northlie,  co.  Oxford,  562. 


GENERAL  INDEX. 


7*1 


Leigh  Durant,  Lydurant  (in  Pillaton),  co. 

Cornwall,  410,  593. 
Leighfield,  Lyghfeld,  co.  Kutland,  517. 

 ,  fore.st  of,  176. 

  Ayid  see  Lee. 

Leighton  Bromeswold,  co.  Huntingdon,  502. 

  Buzzard,  CO.  Bedford,  65,80,  362,  417, 

499. 

Leighton,  Leyghtou,  John,  247,  249,294,  407, 
429,  627. 

 ,   ,  Ankaret  his  wife,  294. 

 ,  Richard,  400. 

 ,  Thomas,  294. 

Leith,  Lete,  in  Scotland,  ship  called  la  Marie 

of,  605. 
Leke.    See  Leake. 
Lake,  Henry,  377. 

 ,  John,  352,  354. 

Lekke,  John,  286. 
Lekynfeld.    .See  Leckonfield. 
Lelley,  co.  York,  323. 
Lelly,  Richard,  104. 
 ,  Thomas,  603. 

Lematon,  Lemangton,  Leinyngtou,  Richard, 

mayor  of  York,  316. 
Lemeryk.    See  Lymeryk. 
Lemyng,  William,  130,  500. 
Lemyngton.    See  Lymington. 

 ,  John,  78,  212,  431. 

 ,  Thomas,  5. 

  And  see  Lematon. 

Lenay,  Thomas,  441. 
Lenche,  John,  7,  110. 
Lenchelade.    See  Linslade. 
Lenehous,  Lenous,  William,  579. 
Lenesdale,  Thomas,  577. 
Lennerton,  Lcnerton,  co.  York,  145. 
Lenous.    Sec  Lonehous. 
Lenthale,  Roland,  424. 

 ,  Margaret  his  wife,  424. 

Lenton,  co.  Nottingham,  600. 

 ,  prior  and  convent  of,  446,  448,  600. 

 ,  Thomas,  prior  of,  446,  448,  600. 

  And  see  Levington. 

Lenton,  Thomas,  158. 
Lenwode.    See  Linwood. 
Leon,  in  Spain,  600. 

  And  see  Castile. 

 ,  in  Brittany,  diocese  of,  474. 

Leonard  Moor,  Ijynermore,  co.  Devon,  343. 

Leper,  Lepar,  Richard,  286,  288. 

Lepers,  373. 

Lescrope.    See  Scropc. 

Leskerdburgh.    See  Liskeard. 

Lesnes,  co.  Kent,  William,  abbot  of,  463. 

 ,  hundred  of.    See  Little. 

Lessiugham,   Lesyugham,  co.  Norfolk,  73, 

499. 

Lessinton,  John  de,  123. 
Lestraunge,  Henry,  372. 
Lesyngham.    See  Lessingham. 


Lete.    See  Leith. 
Letherpoll,  Thomas,  73. 
Leton.    See  Leaton. 
Lettley.    See  Netley. 

Leukenore,  Lewekenore,  John,  17  7,  196,  199, 
312,  633. 

 ,   ,  Joan  his  wife,  177,  312. 

 ,  Richard,  130,  406,  633. 

 ,  sherifE  of  Surrey  and  Sussex, 

326. 

 ,  Roger,  196,  199,  247,  249,  351,  405, 

603,  633. 

 ,  Thomas,  255,  288,  351,  495. 

   ,  the  elder,  406,  633. 

 ,   ,  the  younger,  199. 

Levelord,  Robert,  588. 

Leventhorpe,  John,  23,  208,  250,  350. 

 ,  the  elder,  199,  407,  616. 

 ,   ,  the  younger,  617. 

 ,  Nicholas,  207,  218,  268,  286,  329, 

333,  333,  347,  353,  379,  490,  571. 

 ,  Thomas,  100,  173,  182,  199,  350. 

 ,  the  younger,  407. 

Leverington,  co.  Cambridge,  560,  576. 
Levermore,  Hugh,  149. 

 ,  Richard,  21,  51,  75,  79,  149,  256, 

385. 

Leversegge,  William,  603. 

 ,   ,  Edith  his  wife,  603. 

Leversige.    See  Liversedge. 
Leverun,  John,  501. 

 ,  Nicholas,  408. 

 William,  7. 

 ,   ,  Isabel  his  wife,  7. 

Levington,  Lenton,  co.  Suffolk,  73. 

Levyse.    See  Devises. 

Lewen,  John,  287. 

Lewes,  co.  Sussex,  prior  of,  42,  585. 

 ,  prior  and  convent  of,  395. 

 ,  Thomas,  prior  of,  65,  395. 

 Thomas  att  Well,  prior  of,  415,  418. 

Lewes,  Hugh,  443. 

 John,  276. 

 ,  Philip,  573. 

 Thomas,  29. 

 William,  79. 

  And  see  Lewys. 

Lewesham,  Leueshaiii,  co.  Kent,  432. 

Leweston,  John,  364. 

Leweton.    See  Luton. 

Lewlyn,  John,  rector  of  Romaldkirk,  215. 

Lewys,  Geoffrey,  152. 

 ,  Henry,  248,  249,  258,  407,  614. 

 ,  John,  60. 

 ,  Richard,  81. 

 ,  Thomas,  262. 

  And  see  Lewes. 

Lexden,  co.  Essex,  12. 
Leybarn,  R.  de,  561. 


732 


GENERAL  INDEX. 


Leycestre,  Leycetur,  John,  564. 

 Richarrl,  abbot  of  Oseney,  342,  359. 

Leyden,  in  Holland,  39G. 
Leygham.    See  Layham. 
Leyghton.    See  Leightou. 
Leyk.    See  Leake. 
Leyman,  William,  76. 

Leynham,  John,  96,  106,  117,  418,  471,  47?. 

 ,   ,  Margaret  his  wife,  471,  472. 

Leynthorpe,  John,  218. 
Leyntou,  John,  18,  40,  399. 
Leyremarney.    See  Layer  Marney. 
Ley.stoft.    See  Lowestoft. 
Leyton,  co.  Essex,  502. 
Leytonstone,  co.  Essex,  502. 
Leyty,  Richard,  307. 

 ,  ,  parson  of  Creed,  264. 

Lezaut,  Lassant,  co.  Cornwall,  224. 
Liche,  William,  parson  of  Marke,  275. 
Lichefeld,  Master  Edmund,  prebendary  of 

Lincoln,  308. 

 ,  Richard,  184. 

  And  see  Lychefeld. 

Lichfield,  Lychefelde,  co.  Stafford,  2,  3,  16, 

28,  29,  384,  498. 
 ,  letters  patent  dated  at,  396-399,  405, 

408,  429,  430. 

 ,  cathedral  of,  dean  of.    See  Heywod. 

Lichirche.    See  Litchurch. 

Liddington,  Lydyngton,  co.  Rutland,  80. 

 ,  letters  patent  dated  at,  475,  583,  595. 

Lidney.    See  Lydney. 

Lidsing,  Lydesynge,  co.  Kent,  371. 

Liegh,  Peter,  497,  572. 

Ligh.    See  Leigh. 

Light,  Walter,  208. 

Ligon.    See  Lygon. 

Libert.    See  Hert. 

Lilburn,  Henry,  447. 

Lilborne,  John,  the  elder,  407,  624. 

 ,   ,  the  younger,  490. 

.........    ylnrf  see  Lylbourne. 

Lilborys,  John,  the  elder,  350. 

Lilford,  Lilleford,  co.  Northampton,  508. 

Lilleshull,  co.  Salop,  abbot  and  convent  of, 

304. 

 ,  Robert,  abbot  of,  304. 

Lining,  East,  co.  York,  483,  486,  487. 

 ,  West,  483,  487. 

Lillingston  Lovel,  co.  Oxford,  7. 
Lillyug,  Richard,  265. 

Limerick,  Limbrike,  Lymryk,  in  Ireland,  468, 
595. 

Limpsfield,  Lymmesfeld,  co.  Surrey,  1, 

Linby,  Lyndeley,  Lymby,  co.  Nottingham, 
381,  441,  482,  498. 

Lincoln,  19,  54,  76,  162,  200,  221,  310,  348, 
381,  384,  411,  462,  492,  508,  518. 

 ,  mayor  of,  332. 

  And  see  Crabdeu  ;  Beseby. 


Lincoln,  letters  patent  dated  at,  480-482, 

495,  583,  590. 

...   ,  charter  dated  ut,  539. 

 ,  outlawries  in,  16,  433. 

 ,  subsidy  and  ulnagc  of  cloth  in,  348. 

 ,  diocese  of,  39,  47,  48,  52,  107,  132, 

178,  212,  213,  230,  245,  263,  274,  309, 

332,  333,  342,  344,  391,  396,  399,  415, 

43S,  440,  519,  596. 
 ,  bishop  of.    See  Chedworth  ;  Rother- 

ham. 

 ,  bishopric  of,  125,  296,  308,  312,  313. 

 ,   archdeacon  of.     See  Chedworth  ; 

Ewen. 

 ,  cathedral  of,  332,  559. 

 ,   ,  dean  and  chapter  of,  142,  295, 

296,  308,  311,  313,  540,  559. 

 ,   ,  dean  of.    See  Flemmyng. 

 ,   ,  vicars  in,  474. 

 ,   ,  '  Ravenserchauntry '  in,  48. 

 ,   ,  prebend  of  Farrendon  with 

Baldeston  in,  296. 
 ,           ,  prebend  of  South  Scarle  in, 

308. 

 ,   ,  prebend  of  Stowe  in,  313. 

 ,   ,  prebend  of  Walton  Rivall  in, 

295. 

 ,  earl  of.    See  Lacy  ;  Meschines ;  de 

la  Pole. 

 ,  county  of,  25,  26,  30,  44,  54,  56,  61, 

86,  96,  127,  185,  206,218,221,233, 
242,  265,  289,  329,  348,  352,  354,  355, 
360,  462,  490,  492,  511,  513,  525,  544. 

 ,   ,  sheriff  of,  30,  44,  56,  61,  157, 

285,  286,  289,  352,  355,  490,  492,  544, 
573. 

  And  see  FitzWilHam  ;    Welby  ; 

Tempest ;  Thornburgh  ;  Constable  ; 
Kyme  ;  Villers  ;  Wymbissh. 

 ,  escheator  in,  39,  135,  186, 

205,  271.  332,  416,  475,  550,  597. 

  And  see  Foljambe  ;  Burgh  ;  Han- 
sard ;  Sandford  ;  Maimer  ;  Gibthorpe  ; 
Saynton. 

 ,  outlawries  in,  9,  76,  79,  81, 142, 

204,  254,  322,  324,  504,  580. 

 ,   ,  subsidy  and  ulnage  of  cloth  in, 

329,  348,  478. 

 ,  ,  the  parts  of  Holland  in,  28,  352, 

496. 

 ,   ,   ,  commissions  of  the  peace 

in,  619. 

 ,  ,  the  parts  of  Kesteven  in,  28, 

352,  496. 

 ,  ,  ,  commissions  of  the  peace 

in,  619. 

 ,  ,  the  parts  of  Lind.say,  252,  316, 

352,  354,  496. 
 ,  ,  ,  commissions  of  the  peace 

in,  620. 

 ,  ,  ,  justices  of  the  peace  in, 

573. 

Lincoln,  William,  126. 

Lineham,  Lyneham,  co.  Devon,  331. 


GENERAL  INDEX. 


733 


Linford,  Lyudford,  Lyuford,  co.  Buckingham, 
457. 

 ,  Great,  44,  466. 

 ,  Little,  529. 

Ling,  Lyng,  co.  Norfolit,  226. 
Lingfield,  Lyngefeld,  co.  Surrey,  253. 
Linley,  Lynley,  co.  Salop,  134. 
Linom,  Thomas,  354. 

Linslade,  Lenchelade,  Lynchelade,  co.  Buck- 
ingham, 191,  521. 

Linton,  Lynton,  co.  York,  20,  279,  419. 

Linwood,  Lyndewode,  co.  Lincoln,  310,  518, 
523. 

 Beaumont,  19. 

Lirlyngford.    See  Larlingford. 
Lirtington.    See  Lartington. 
Lisbon,  Lusshebourne,  in  Portugal,  362,  450. 
Liskeard,  Lcskertburgh,  co.  Cornwall,  434, 
575. 

Lisle,  Lysle,  George,  63. 

 ,  John,  53,  56,  100,  220,  246,  629. 

 ,  the  lord,  190. 

 the  lady,  118. 

  And  see  Talbot. 

Litchurch,  Lichirche,  co.  Derby,  256. 

Litelbury,  John,  100. 

 ,  Thomas,  100. 

 ,  William,  100. 

Litelstoughton.    See  Staughton. 

Litelton.    See  Litteltou. 

Lithewode.    See  Lythwood. 

Litley,  Litteley,  Thomas,  209. 

Litlyngton,  John,  abbot  of  Croyland,  183. 

Littelbury,  Humphry,  286. 

Littclton,  Litelton,  Lytelton,  John,  76. 

 ,  Thomas,  10,  51,  55,  70,  103,  103, 

127,  128,  170,  171,  221,  251,  289,  317, 
353,  377,  403,  405-408,  490,  625,  593, 
GlO-612,  615,  619-621,  624,  625,  627, 
629,  630,  634-636,  638. 

 ,   ,    justice    of    the  iComnion 

Bench,  112,  163,  227,  229,  258,264, 
344. 

 ,  William,  76. 

Littclyngton,  co.  Huntingdon,  141. 

Little  and  Lesnes,  Lytic  and  Lysyns,  CO. 

Kent,  hundred  of,  301. 
Littlebourn,  Litleborne,  co.  Kent,  42. 
Littlefield,  Lytelfeld,  co.  Kcut,  hundred  of, 

302. 

Littleham,  Lytelham,  co.  Devon,  36. 
Littlemore,  More,  co.  Oxford,  9. 
Litton,  Thomas,  260. 
Liyersedge,  Leversige  [co.  York],  572. 
Liyght,  Walter,  299. 

Llanaber,  Llannaber  by  Ebormo  [co.  Merio- 
neth] ,  304. 

Llanbadarn   Vawr,  Llampadarn  Vawre,  in 

South  Wales,  106. 
Llanbedv,  Llanbederc  [co.  Brtckuock],  447. 


Llandaff,  bishop  of.    See  Hunden  ;  Smyth. 

 bishopric  of,  287,  598. 

 ,  cathedral  church  of,  287. 

 ,  diocese  of,  48. 

Llanddowyn,  Llanddoynwen,   LanoyefiF,  co. 

Anglesea,  335. 
Llandyssil,  LandussuU  [co.  Cardigan],  181, 

186. 

Llangenydd,    Langenneth,    co.  Glamorgan, 

abbot  and  convent  of,  43. 
Llangoedmore,  co.  Cardigan,  333. 
Llanstephan  [co.  Caermarthen] ,  175. 
Lloughor.    .Sec  Loughor. 
Lloyd,  Lloydy,  John,  39,  304. 

 ,  Owen,  339. 

Lobbe,  William,  171,  403,  404. 
Locabellok,  James,  198. 
Lochard,  Thomas,  20. 

Lochmaben,  Lowmaban  [co.  Dumfries],  268  . 
Lock,  John,  9. 

Lockerley,  Lokerle,  co.  Southampton,  589. 

Locton.    See  Lokton. 

Lodbrok.    See  Ladbroke. 

Loddon,  oo.  Norfolk,  191. 

Loder,  Robert,  286. 

Lodewyll,  John,  61. 

Lodus,  Robert,  3. 

Lofthous,  Christopher,   prior  of  Healaugh 
Park,  321. 

 William,  321. 

Lofthouse,  CO.  York,  378. 

Logan,  Henry,  433. 

Logge,  William,  152,  210. 

Loghrigge.    See  Loughrigg. 

Lok,  William,  144,  321,  435,  502. 

Lokear,  Robert,  409. 

Lokerle.    See  Lockerley. 

Lokesdeu,  John,  256. 

Lokinton,  Roger  de,  123. 

Lokke,  Henry,  226. 

Lokkesley.    See  Loxley. 

Loksmyth,  Gilbert,  277. 

Lokton,  Thomas,  101,  285,  406,  609. 

 ,  Locton,  Thomas,  vicar  of  Luud,  502. 

Lokwode,  Henry,  178. 

 ,  Joan,  215. 

 ,  Richard,  605. 

 William,  215. 

Lokyngton,  John,  526. 
Loldon,  CO.  Wilts,  466. 
Lolle,  Nicholas,  171. 
Lombards,  74. 
Lome,  John,  104. 
Lomeley,  Marmaduke,  231,  232. 
Lomeuer,  Reginald,  381. 
Lomley.    See  Lumley. 
Loncastre,  Hugh,  214. 
Loud.    Sec  Lund. 
Lonilc,  John,  207. 


734 


GENERAL  INDEX. 


Londe,  Richard,  386. 
Londesdale.    See  Lonsdale. 
Londey.    See  Lundy. 

London,  2-11,  14,  18-22,  25,  28,  .31,  33,  36, 
38,  42,  43,  45,  49,  51-53,  68-70,  72- 
74,  76-84,  87,  92,  94-98,  101,  103, 
104,  106-109,  113-117,  120,  122,  123, 
126,  139,  141-153,  155,  157,  158,  160, 
161,  164,  165,  167,  169,  171,  174,  175, 
177,  178,  180,  182,  184,  185,  188,  190, 
201-206,209,210,  212,213,218,  223 
-228,  232,  234,  236,  240,  242,  253-258, 
260,  262,  267,  270-272,  274,  276,  278, 
280-282,  290,  291,  293,  295,  303,  305 
-307,  313,  315-317,319-329,331,  332, 
335,  339-342,  345-347,  357,  359,  362, 
364,  366-368,  372,  374-376,  380-388, 
391-395,  397,  400,  4]  1,  412,  414,  416, 
417,  420-422,  424,  431-440,  447,  448, 
451,  453,  461,  462,  466-472,  474,  475, 
481-483,  487,  488,  492,  496,  498-504, 
506,  509,  511,  512,  514-516,  519-521, 
525,  533,  539,  540,  545-550,  .557,  560, 
565,  5/5-583,  586,  587,  589,  592,  593, 
595,  596,  599,  604. 

 ,  letters  patent  dated  at,  62,  292. 

  ..,  charters  dated  at,  122,  370,  371,  478. 

 mayor  and  commonalty  of,  509,  510. 

 ,  mayor  and  aldermen  of,  188. 

 ,  mayor  of,  193,  228. 

  And  see  Yonge  ;  Eyre  ;  Owlegreve ; 

Camynges  ;  Lee ;  Taillour  ;  Stokton  ; 
Edward  ;  Hampton  ;  Tate  ;  Drope  ; 
Hill;  Basset. 

 ,  sheriffs  of,  20,  22,  71,  161,210,228, 

280,  341,  379,  392,  488,  525,  545,  549, 
557. 

  And    see    Hayford ;    Stalbroke  ; 

Stone  ;  Tate ;  Drope  ;  Brice  ;  Col- 
■wyche  ;  Gardiner ;  Stokker ;  Billesdon ; 
Shaa. 

 ,  recorder  of.    See  Ursewyk  ;  Starkey. 

 ,  outlawries  in,  2-11,  16,  21,  37,  38,  44, 

72-82,  109,   122,   142-149,  164,  173, 

174,  202-204,  223-227,  253-257,  320 

-327,  364,    380-386,   413,  431-436, 

498-504,  575-582,  599. 

 subsidy  and  ulnage  of  cloth  in,  478. 

, ,  ,  bishopric  of,  460. 

,  ,  bishop  of,  69. 

  And  see  Kemp  ;  Gilbert. 

,  ,  diocese  of,  33,  50,  63,  107,  109,  160, 

180,  206,  227,  234,  263,  295,  367,  388. 

398,  411,  437,  454,  458,  469,  472,  504, 

537,  543,  586. 

 ,  archdeacon  of,  193. 

 .4?irf  see  Martyn. 

  ,  St.  Paul's  Cathedral,  153,  506. 

 ,  ,  dean  and  chapter  of,  176,  460, 

514. 

 dean  of,  193. 

  Aud  see  Wynterborne. 

 ,  ,  penitentiary  in,  460. 

 ,    prebend  of  Brondesbury  in, 

111. 


I  London,  St.  Paul's  Cathedral,  prebend  of 

Brownswood  in,  412. 

 ,   ,  prebend  of  Chiswick  in,  176. 

 ,   ,  prebend  of  Ealdland  in,  590. 

 ,  ,  prebend  of  St.  Pancras  in,  460. 

 ,   ,  minor  canon  of,  604. 

 ,  college  of  canons  in,  135. 

  ••,   ,  ,  Laurence  Damlet,  warden 

of,  135. 

 >  St.  Mary    Graces  by  the  Tower, 

abbot  and  convent  of.  111,  514. 

 ,   ,  Thomas,  abbot  of,  28. 

  hospital  of  St.  Katharine  by  the 

Tower,  28,  135. 

 >  ,  warden,  brethren,  and  sisters  of, 

135,  541. 

  ••>   ,  Henry  Trevilian,  warden  of,  135. 

 >   John  de  Hermesthorp,  warden 

of,  135. 

 >  ,  Lionel  Wydeville,  warden  of, 

541. 

  St.   Martin  le  Grand,  dean  and 

chapter  of,  99. 

 )   ,   dean   of.     See  Stillington ; 

Caudray ;  Kirkeham  ;  Melton. 
 >   Holy  Trinity,    Thomas  Pomeroy, 

prior  of,  500. 

 ,  St.  Bartholomew  in  West  Smithfield, 

priory  of,  265,  272. 

 ,  ,  convent  of,  260. 

   ,  Reginald  Colyer,  prior  of,  260. 

 ,  Richard  Pulter,  prior  of,  265, 

S72. 

  Elsiugspital  within  Cripplegate,  prior 

and  convent  of,  509. 

 .St.  Mary's,  Clerkenwell,  prioress  of, 

509. 

 hospital  or  free  chapel  of  St.  Antony 

115,  153,  484. 

 >   ,  Master  Peter  Courtenay,  war- 
den of,  228. 

  piiory  or  hospital  of  St.  Mary  of 

Bethlehem  without  Bishopsgate,  436. 

   ,  Thomas  Hadley,  prior  of,  254. 

 >          John  Smeethe,  warden  of,  233. 

  House  of  Converts,  245,  259,  334. 

516. 

 Old  Temple,  76. 

 ,  New  Temple,  74,  88,  413,  414. 

 ,  Charing  Cross,  346,  348. 

 '  '  chapel  of  St.  Mary,  Ronces- 

valles,  by,  542. 

 ,  Holbo.n,  415. 

 .St.  Katharine's  by  the  Tower,  385. 

 ,  Old  Bailey,  81. 

 ,  the  king's  wardrobe  in,  475. 

 ,  Guildhall,  68,  120. 

 Guildehalla  Teutonicorum,  157  337 

272,  307,  341,  .187,  445,  452,  473,  509, 

519,  540. 

 ,  Esterlyngeshalle,  512,  540. 

...^  le  Styleyerd,  445,  509,  510. 


GENERAL  INDEX. 


735 


London,  Tower  Hill,  111,  487,  512. 

 ,  le  TowrewharfE,  210. 

 ,  Queenhithe,  244. 

 ,  le  Ryall,  538. 

 ,  East  Smithfield,  111. 

 ,  West  Smithfield,  125. 

 ,   ,  St.  John's  street  without  the 

bar  of,  .306. 

 ,  Ludgate,  565. 

 ,  le  Herber,  34G,  457,  488,  529. 

 ,  Coldeherburgh,  32,  137. 

 ,  Coldeherburghlaue,  32,  137. 

 ,  Beaumont  Inne,  517. 

 ,  Clifford  Inne,  93. 

 ,  Hungerford  Inne,  346. 

 ,  Ormondes  lune,  64. 

 ,  Baynardescastell,  ward  of,  27,  517. 

 ,  Bradstrete,  ward  of,  120. 

 ,  Candelwykestrete,  ward  of,  161. 

 ,  Chepc,  ward  of,  120. 

 Dowgate,  ward  of,  509. 

 ,  Faryugdon  Within,  ward  of,  120. 

  Without,  ward  of,  9y,  120,  565- 

 ,  Vintry,  ward  of,  341. 

 ,  Colmaiistrete,  68. 

 ,  Bradstrete,  309. 

 ,  Fletestrete,  93 

 ,  Borchawelane,  336. 

 ,  Lombardstretc,  541. 

 ,  Lymestrete,  439. 

 ,  Nedelerslano,  336. 

 Oldfyschestret,  9. 

 ,  Paternoster  Lane,  111. 

 ,  Secollane,  135. 

 Sermonerslane,  336. 

 ,  Soperslane,  336. 

 ,  Tamystrete,  27,  509,  540. 

 ,  Martelane,  514. 

 Watlyngstrete,  24,  46. 

 ,  Wyndegoselane,  512,  540. 

 dyers  of,  236. 

 ,  mercers  of,  31,  177. 

 ,  pewterers  of,  424. 

 weavers  of,  111. 

 ,  principal  clerks  of,  544. 

London  churches  : 

Allhallows,  Barking,  192 

 ,  at  the  Hay,  564,  565. 

 ,  Stiincnchirhe,  112,  514. 

St.  Andrew  Hubberd,  22. 

St.  Antoninus,  586. 

St.  Bartholomew  the  Less,  112. 

St.  Benet  Shorhogge,  514. 

St.  Bride,  Fleet  Street,  553. 

St.  Christopher,  469. 

St.  Denis,  69. 

St.  FiWin  within  Newgate,  380. 
St.  Leonard,  Fastoure  Lane,  42. 
St.  Martin  in  tlie  Vintry,  330. 


London  churches — cont. 

St.  Mary,  Aldermary,  24,  46,  369, 
395. 

 ,  Barking,  46. 

 ,  Metfelon,  28. 

 ,  Moises,  in  Frydaystrete,  109. 

Stephen,  Coiiaanstrete,  68,  69. 
London  p.arishes: 

Allhallows,  Barking,  514. 

 ,  the  More,  509. 

 ,  at  the  Hay,  512,  540. 

St.  Andrew,  Hoi  born,  76. 

 ,  without    the  bars  of    the  Old 

Temple,  143. 
St.  Antony,  336. 
St.  Augustine,  120. 
St.  Bartholomew  the  Less,  6. 
St.  Benet,  Baynard's  Castle,  27. 

 ,  Shorhogge,  514. 

 Tamystrete,  517. 

St.  Botolph,  ,\ldrichgate,  20,  419. 

 ,  without  Bishopsgate,  24. 

St.  Christopher  by  le  Stokkes,  309. 

St.  Clement  Danes,  74,  88,  414. 

St.  Dunstan  in  the  West,  120. 

St.  Giles  without  Cripplegatc,  508,  578, 

602. 

St.  John,  Walbrook,  435,  498. 
St.  Lawrence,  Jewry,  68,  120. 
St.  Margaret,  Briggestrete,  214. 

 Patyns,  336. 

St.  Martin,  Orgar,  161. 

  without  Ludgate,  565. 

  in  the  Vintry,  553. 

St.  Mary,  Colchurch,  336. 

 ,  Stanyng,  357,  414. 

 le  Strand,  413. 

  Wolnoth,  541. 

St.  Michael,  341. 

  Pater  Noster,  538. 

 ,  Wodestrete,  36. 

St.  Peter,  Coruhill,  309. 

 ,  le  Poer,  309. 

St.  Sepulchre,  120,  121. 

 without  Newgate,  135. 

St.  Stephen,  Colmanstrete,  68. 
  Walbrook,  8. 

London,  Tower  of,  46,  138,  139,  150,  210, 
259,  314,  348,  395,  420,  463,  563,  566. 

 ,   ,  constable   of.     See   Tiptoft ; 

Dudley ;  Fenys. 

 ,   ,  charter  dated  at,  424. 

 ,   ,  king's  privy  wardrobe  in,  480, 

590. 

 ,  ,  coinage,  mint  and  exchange  in, 

98,  112,  138,  13!),  149,  150,  185,  227, 
239,  313-315,  586. 

 king's  free  chapel  of  St.  Peter 

in,  563. 


736 


GENERAL  INDEX. 


London,  port  of,  14,  31,  37,  59,  105-108,  116, 
122,  132,  153,  159,  160,  165,  166,  168, 
176,  212,  213,  216,  226,  229,  231,  234, 
245,  259,  262,  264,  269,273,  294,  308, 
315,  341,  358,  366,  388,  389,  394,  445, 
472,  477,  484,  493,  495,  512,  513,  518, 
521,  528,  532,  534,  546,  549,  550,  554, 
559,  560,  569,  587,  592,  595,  600. 

 ,  ,  customs  and  subsidies  in,  11, 

33,  106,  107,  113,  115,  116,  122,  130, 
158,  161,  168,  175,  181,  212,  213,  216, 
269,  273,  342,  374,  375,  388,  389,  415, 
432,  438,  445,  452,  472,  477,  484,  489, 
512,  513,  521,  528,  532,  534,  546,  549, 
550,  554,  555,  559,  560,  569,  587,  592, 
595. 

 ,   ,  searcher  in,  116,  122,  308. 

 ,  tronage  and  pesage  in,  166, 

229,  259,  269. 

 ,  ship  called  la  Clement  of,  526. 

 ,   ,le  John  of  526. 

 ,   ,  le  Lytyll  Trinite,  of  526. 

 ,  ,  la  Maria  of,  526. 

 ,  ,  le  Martyn  of,  525. 

 ,   ,le  Mary  Flowre  of,  355. 

 ,   ,  le  Old  Elyn  of,  355. 

 ,   ,la  Petyr  of,  526. 

 ,   ,  le  Trinite  of,  489,  495,  526. 

Londys,  Eoger,  255. 
Long,  Henry,  351. 

Longbarns,  in  Beauchamp  Roding,  co.  Essex, 
290. 

Longbridge,  co.  Kent,  hundred  of,  301. 

Longcastre,  John,  215. 

Longden,  co.  Westmoreland,  531. 

Longdon.    See  Langdon. 

Longe,  Henry,  196,  219,  220,  247,  408,  428, 

573,  635. 
 John,  83. 

 ,  ,  parson  of  St.  George's,  Exeter, 

599. 

 ,  Katharine,  158. 

 ,  Robert,  158. 

 Nicholas,  524. 

 Philip,  434. 

 Thomas,  526. 

Longecombe.    See  Combe. 

Longeman,  John,  parson  of  Culmington  in  le 

Corvedale,  543,  557. 
Longfield  [co.  Kent],  359. 
Longford,  John,  577. 
Longhope,  co.  Gloucester,  397,  541,  562. 
Lougkirchill.    See  Critchell,  Long. 
Long  Load,  Langelode,  co.  Somerset,  148. 
Longney,  co.  Gloucester,  448. 
Longo  Campo,  William  de,  bishop  of  Ely, 

chancellor  of  Richard  I.,  328,  376. 
Longton,  Langeton,  co.  Lancaster,  17. 
Longuevile,  Longvill,  George,  212,  218. 
Longwyke,  co.  Buckingham,  35. 

Lonsdale,  Londesdale  [co.  Westmoreland], 
334,  .')3  i. 


Loode,  Thomas,  453. 
Looneryk,  Thomas,  302. 
Lopham,  North,  co.  Norfolk,  257. 
Lopham,  Thomas,  253. 
Lorde,  Thomas,  524. 
Lorkyn,  John,  29. 
 ,  William,  73. 

Losinga,  Herbert,  bishop  of  Norwich  [1091- 

1119],  459,  460. 
Lostwithiel,  Lastichiall,  co.  Cornwall,  port  of, 

210. 

 ,  exchequer  of,  157. 

 ,  seal  called  '  le  Touehe  '  at,  162. 

Loterell.    See  Luttrell. 
Loterigge,  co.  Cornwall,  58. 
Lother,  William,  303. 

Lothingland,Ludyngland,co.  Suffolk,  hundred 

of,  242. 
Lotte,  William,  433. 
Loty,  John,  194,  522. 
Louekyn.    See  Lovekyn. 
Loughborough,  Loughebnrgh,  co.  Leicester, 

26,  212,  517. 
Loughor,  CO.  Glamorgan,  163. 
Loughrigg,  Loghrigge  [co.  Westmoreland], 

334,  531. 
Loughton,  CO.  Essex,  327. 

 ,  CO.  Nottingham,  297. 

Loughton,  George,  50. 
 ,  Thomas,  144. 

Louis  XL,  king  of  France,  56,  156,  536,  559, 
571,  583. 

Louis  ap  Jankyn,  parson  of  Manafon,  342. 

Louis  ap  Oweyn,  parson  of  Llandyssil,  186. 

Lound,  CO.  Suffolk,  325. 

Lounde,  John,  74,  228. 

Loure,  Nicholas,  162,  218. 

Louth,  lord  of.    See  Bathe. 

 ,  county  of,  193. 

..........  CO.  Lincoln,  122,  254,  422,  528,  595. 

Louth,  Thomas,  617. 
Love,  Robert,  394. 

 ,  Thomas,  287. 

Loveday,  Richard,  578,  589. 
Lovekyn,  George,  472,  565,  594. 

 ,  John,  550. 

Lovelas,  Richard,  197,  198. 

 ,  Thomas,  302. 

Lovell,  Agnes,  422, 

 ,  Alice,  dame  Lovell,  Deyncourt  and 

Gray,  421,  468. 

 ,  ,  dame  Lovell,  440. 

 ,  Eleanor,  lady  Morley,  603. 

 ,  Francis,  51,  215,  257,  259,  26J,  312, 

421,  438,  440,468,  585. 

 ,   ,  Anne  his  wife,  215. 

 ,  Frideswide,  215. 

 ,  Hamo,  54. 

 ,  Henry,  lord  Morley,  603. 

 ,  Juan,  215. 


GENERAL  INDEX. 


737 


Lovell,  John,  lord,  51,  215,  257,  2.59,  261, 
312,  438. 

 ,  ,  Joan  his  wife,  51,  312. 

 ,  Richard,  196,  349,  608, 

 ,  William,  461. 

 ,  ,  prior  of  the  hospital  of  St..Iolin 

the  Baptist,  by  the  bridge  of  Lochia  do, 
361. 

Lover,  Henry,  502. 

 ,   j.Joan  his  v.ifi',  502. 

Lowas.    Sea  Lowes. 
Lowe,  John,  300,  5G3. 

 ,  Lawrence,  4U8,  Gil. 

 ,  Richard,  276,  393. 

 William,  531. 

Lowcnde,  John,  228. 

Lowes,  CO.  Northumberland,  523. 

Lowes,  Lowas,  Lowys,  Ileury,  218. 

 .John,  234,  236. 

 ,  Philip,  167,  230. 

Lowestoft,  Leystoft,  co.  Suffolk,  6,  7,  242, 
COS. 

 ,  ship  called  le  Margaret  of,  353. 

Lowniaban.    See  Lochmaben. 

Lowther,  Louther,  Hugh,  29,  610. 

Lowys.    See  Lowes. 

Loxle,  Thomas,  505. 

Lo.\.lGy,  Lokkesley,  co.  York,  439. 

Loxton,  CO.  Somerset,  504. 

Loys,  Henry,  258. 

Lubeck,  Lubyke,  Luke,  605. 

 ,  province  of,  207. 

Lucas,  Ivo,  198. 

 John,  abbot  of  Waltham,  454,  469. 

 ,  Robert,  251. 

Lucca,  Luca,  Luke,  312,  323. 
Luccoinbe,  co.  Somerset,  476. 
Luce.    See  Lucy. 
Lucerne.    Sec  Luzerne. 
Luckington,  Lucton,  co.  Somerset,  555. 
Lucok,  William,  33. 

Lucombe,  Lucom,  Thomas,  58,  102,  104,  378, 

427,  610. 
Lucton.    Sec  Luckington. 
Lucy,  Luce,  Margaret,  422. 

 ,  Thomas,  349,  432. 

 ,  William,  289,  348,  349,  403,  405,  430, 

481,  634. 
Luddcnham,  co.  Kent,  45. 
Ludc,  AVilliam,  37. 
Ludford,  CO.  Lincoln,  457,  529. 

  And  see  Lydford. 

Ludford,  Thomas,  50L 
Ludgcrshall,  co.  Wilts,  243,  457,  529,  594. 
Ludlow,  CO.  Salop,  261,  304,  574,  589. 
Ludlow,  Richard,  628. 

 ,  William,  5,  627. 

Ludyngland.    Sec  Lothingland. 
Luc,  William,  231. 
y  9618G. 


Lnffenham,  South,  eo.  Rutland,  113, 
Luffenham,  Thomas,  287. 
Lngwardine,  co.  Hereford,  459. 
Luke.    See  Liibeck,  Lucca, 
Luke,  Luky,  John,  251, 

 Thomas,  29,  CO. 

Lu!l)ai)i,  Lullam,  Williiv;;i,  412. 
Lulworth,  East,  Estlullev.orth,  co.  Dorset, 
273. 

Lumnour,  William,  622. 
Lumicy,  Loniley,  Crcorge,  282. 

  slieiifl'  or   u:idor-shcriff  of 

Korthuniberkii'.d,  471. 

 ,  Thomas,  282,  3J9,  350. 

 ,  ,  of  Lumley,  624,  636,  C?.7. 

Lund,  Loud  on  le  V/alJ,  co.  York,  502. 
Lundy,  Londey,  co.  Devon,  457,  529. 
Luce,  Galeas  de,  299. 
Lunnon,  Lunon,  co.  Glamorgan,  191. 
Lundyssh,  Roger,  255. 

Lurirashall,  Lurgursale,  co.  Essex  (Sussex), 
501. 

Lusshebourne.    Sec  Lisbon. 

Lute,  Thomas,  1G9,  252,  288,  439,  4C3. 

  And  see  Lucy. 

Luthyngton,  John,  259. 

Luton,  Lewetcn,  Luyton,  co.  B('d.''or.l,  SO, 

203,  446. 
Lutterford,  co.  Devon,  24,  45. 
Lutterworth,  letters  patent  dated  at,  505. 
Luttrcll,  Loterell,  Luterell,  Geoffrey,  191. 
  ,  .lames,  65,  93,  174,  194,  204,  -.iM, 

364,  522,  523. 

 ,  Elizabeth  his  wife,  191,  622. 

 ,  Richard,  194,  523. 

Luyde.  See  Lyde. 
Luyt,  Thomas,  222. 
Luyton.    See  Luton. 

Luzerne,  Lucerne,  iu  Normandy,  abbot  of, 

63,  4G1. 
Lychefeld.    Sec  Lichfield. 
Lychcfeld,  Henry,  433, 

 John,  223. 

 Richard,  143. 

 ,  Roger,  301. 

  And  sec  Lichcfeld. 

Lydd,  Lydc,  co.  Kent,  283,  303,  428,  546. 
Lyde,  John,  IDS. 

Lyde,  Luyde,  co.  Hereford,  450,  4G3,  5ii5. 
Lydesynge.    See  Lidsiug. 
Lydford,  co.  Devon,  173. 

 ,  Ludford,  CO.  Somerset,  32,  137. 

Lydiard,  Bishop's,  co.  Somerset,  473. 

 ,  West,  499. 

Lydiard,  Lydeard,  Thomas,  375. 

Lydney,  Lidney,  co.  Gloucester,  397,  411, 
541,  562. 

Lydurant.    See  Leigh  Durant. 

Lydyngton.    See  Liddington. 

3  A 


738 


GENERAL  INDEX. 


Lye,  Master  Alexander,  prebendary  of  Cob- 

hambury,  589. 

 ,   ,  chaplaiu  of  Freckenliam,  589. 

   ,,  prebendary  of  St.  Stephen's, 

Westminster,  589. 

 ,   ,    prebendary  of  Dridgiiorth, 

338. 

 ,  John,  400. 

L^e,  water  of,  493,  495. 

  .See  Leigli. 

Lygh,  William,  349. 
Lygbfeld.    See  Leigbfield. 
Lygbnay,  Thomas,  441. 
Lyght.    See  Leigh. 
Ijyghtarnes,  Kobert,  355. 
Lyghton,  liicliard,  163. 
Lyglitwode,  William,  77. 
Lygon,  Ligon,  Thomas,  29,  70,  218,  345, 
350,  406,  496,  526,  513,  518,  530,  03G. 
 ,  John,  615,  616. 

 ,  William,  152,  344,  345,  496,  526,  636. 

Lj'gons,  John,  629. 
Lyhert.    iSVe  Hert. 

Lylbourne,  Lyllebourne,  William,  228,  236. 

 ,  James,  230, 

  And  see  Lilborne. 

Lyle,  John,  80. 
Lyly,  llobert,  163. 

Lynibery,  Lymbury,  Thomas,  57,427,  610. 
Lymby,  Thomas,  104. 

Lymeryk,  Lemeryk,  Lymmeryk,  Thomas,  29, 
30,  218,  247,  251,407,  490,  513,  614. 

Lymington,  Lemyngton,  co.  Southampton, 
24,  25. 

Lymmesfeld.    See  Lirapsfield. 

Lymon  [co.  Glamorgan],  163. 

Lympnour,  Thomas,  203. 

Lympsham,  Lympysham,  co.  Somerset,  305. 

Lymryk.    See  Limerick. 

Lynals,  Hugh,  8. 

Lynay,  Thomas,  44  L 

Lynbrik,  Thomas,  54. 

Lynby.    See  Linby. 

Lynche,  Thomas,  418,  473. 

Lynchelade.    .See  Linslade. 

Lyudall,  John,  75,  385. 

.."  William,  10. 

Lynde,  John,  213. 

 ,  Thomas,  248. 

Lyndeley.    See  Linby. 
I/j'ndesey.    See  Lindsay. 
Lyndesey,  John,  437. 

 ,  Thomas,  577. 

Lyndewode.    See  Linwood. 
Lyndford.    See  Linford. 
Lyndhurst,  co.  South.ampton,  110. 
Lyndley,  Percival,  215. 
Lyneham.    See  Lineham. 
Lynermore.    See  Leonard  Moor. 
Lyufordc.    Sec  Linford. 


Lynford,  John,  537. 
Lyug.    See  Ling. 
Lyng,  Robert,  73. 
Lynge,  William,  214,  277. 
Lyngefeld.    See  Lingfield. 
Lyngen,  John,  350,  407,  610. 

 ,  William,  143,  432. 

Lynghan,  John,  288. 
Lynhals,  Henry,  102. 
Lynley.    See  Linley. 

Lynn,  Lenn,  co.  Norfolk,  201,  217,  221,  244, 
519. 

 ,  port  of,  263,  268,  4!0. 

 ,  South,  470. 

 ,  Bishop's,  73,  79,  149,  169,  170,  201, 

217,  221,  225,  323,  081,  435,  500,  519, 
576,  577. 

 ,  port  of,  206,  230,  268,  375,  452. 

Lynter,  Richard,  300. 
Lj'nton.    See  Linton. 
Lynton,  John,  462. 
Lj'nwode.    See  Limvood. 
Lyon,  Isabel,  322. 

 ,  AVilliam.  434. 

Lyonhill,  David,  461. 
Lyre,  co.  Hereford,  582. 
Lysle.    See  Lisle  ;  Talbot. 
Lysour,  John,  159. 
Lystir,  John,  277. 
Lyswell,  Roger,  404. 
Lysyns.    See  Lesnes. 
Lyte,  John,  10,  256. 

 ,  ,  Joan  his  wife,  256. 

 ,  Thomas,  33,  84,  86. 

Lytelfeld.    See  Llttlefield. 

Lytelham.    See  Littleham. 

Lytelton.    See  Littelton. 

Lytescary    [in    Charlton    Mackrell],  co. 

Somerset,  84,  86. 
Lythwood,  Lithewode,  co.  Salop,  41,  183. 
Lytle.    See  Little. 
Lytley,  Lytteley,  Thomas,  209. 
Lytton,  Robert,  552. 
Lyttylby,  Humphrey,  285. 


M. 

Maasland,  Maslond,  in  Holland,  448. 

Mable  Crosse  (Mullacott  Cross),  co.  Devon, 
105. 

Mablethorpe,  Malberthorpe,  co.  Lincoln,  279, 
508. 

Macclesfield,  co.  Chester,  328. 

Mackland,  ]\Iekclond,  in  Rainliam,  co.  Kent, 
540,  541. 


GENERAL  INDEX. 


739 


Madeley,  William,  29. 

 ,  Elleu  his  wife,  29. 

Madison,  Edward,  3.56. 

Magdalen   Laver,    Mauddcyn    Lavtr,  co. 

Essex,  303. 
Blagna  Carta,  5G3. 
Maiden  15iadley,  co.  Wilts,  141. 
Maidenhead,   MaydcnhcJe,    .ship  called 

Kervyll  of,  3.V). 
Maiden  Newton,  Maydcneuton,  c  ).  Dorset, 

327,  373. 

Maidford,  Maydeford  [co.  NorthaniptonJ,  1. 
Maid.stoiic,  Maydeston,  co.  Kent,  "4. 

 ,  hundred  of,  301. 

Maior,  John,  435. 
Maister,  Thomas,  507. 
Makclayn,  John,  214. 
Makenham,  Gaudebenis,  142. 
Makerell,  Ralph,  175,  488,  495. 

 ,  ,  parson  of  Bottesford,  245. 

 ,  Master  Ralph,  chancellor  of  queen 

Margaret,  235. 
 ,   prebendary   of  St.  Stephen'ts, 

Westminster,  235. 
Makesey.    See  Maxey. 
Makwiliam,  Edward,  Gi  l. 
Malard,  William,  353. 
Malary,  Peter,  271. 

  And  see  Malory. 

Malherthorpe.    See  Mablethorpe. 
Malboiirgh,  John,  462. 

Maldon,  Maudon,  co.  Essex,  abbey  of  >St. 

Nicholas  by.    See  Beoleigh. 
Malegreffe,  John,  465. 

 ,  Thomas,  4G5. 

 ,   ,  Joan  his  wife,  4G5. 

Malet,  Thomas,  115. 

Malghom,  John,  81. 

Malliam,  Mallom,  co.  York,  81. 

IMaliard,  Geoffrey,  parson  of  Borley,  411. 

Maliere.    See  Malory. 

Mallerstang,  co.  Westmoreland,  201,  423, 

532. 

Malleryng,  Peter,  494. 
Malleverer,  Edmund,  378. 

  .^Iwrf  sec  Maulevcror. 

Mailing,  East,  Estmallyug,  co.  Kent,  254. 

 ,  West,  302. 

Mallom.    See  Malham. 
Mallom,  John,  81. 

Malmesbury,  co.  Wilts,  76,  232,  242,  603. 

 ,  burgesses  of,  267. 

 ,  charter  dated  at,  34. 

 ,  John,  abbot  of,  419,  635. 

 ,  ,  abbot  and  convent  of,  232,  242. 

Malmesbury,  Roger,  -warden  of  tho  hospital 

of  St.  James  by  Westminster,  63. 
Male  Lacu,  John,  de,  parson  of  Bainton,  102. 

 ,  Peter,  102,  103. 

 ,   ,  Margaret  his  wife,  102. 


JIalo  Lacu,  Constance,  103. 

 ,  Elizabeth,  103. 

Malory,  Malery,  Maliere,  Richard,  410,  479. 

 ,   ,  eschcator  of  Derby,  479. 

  Robert,  250,  274. 

 ,  Thomas,  274. 

  y4 /id  see  Malary  ;  ^laluery. 

Ma'p.is,  c).  Chester,  604. 
Malpas,  David,  25^!,  627. 

 ,  John,  402. 

 ,  Piiilip,  1-lG,  147. 

Maister,  William,  481. 
Maltby,  co.  York,  20,  419. 

  le  Marsh,  co.  Lincoln,  412. 

Maltby,  John,  215. 
Malton,  Old,  co.  York,  2. 
 ,  New,  2. 

Malton,  John,  parson  of  North  Cove,  Ul, 
537. 

 parson  of  West  Thurrock,  537. 

Maluery,  William,  545. 

  And  see  Malory. 

Malvern,  Great,  co.  Worcester,  102,  505. 

 Little,  102. 

Malvcrue,  Ifenry,  322. 
Mahv.ard,  Thomas,  500. 
Malyu,  William,  324. 
Man,  Isle  of,  arms  of,  529. 
Man,  John,  396. 

Manafon,  Manavon  [co.  Monlgoincry],  312. 
]\Iaid)j',  CO.  Lincoln,  508. 
Manchester,  Richard,  2. 
Maner.s,  Robert,  197. 

 ,   ,  sheritf    of  Noithuinberl.ind, 

282. 

Manewden,  co.  Essex,  393. 
ilannok,  John,  183. 
Maunyng,  Margaret,  581. 
 Thomas,  180. 

 ,  ,  dean  of  St.  George's,  Windsor, 

255. 

 ,  William,  82. 

Mannyngham.    See  Manyngham. 
Manorbier,  jMaynarbyerc,  co.  Pembroke,  32, 
137. 

Mansell,  John,  provost  of  Beverley,  123. 
Manser,  Ralph,  567. 

Mansfield,  Maunsfeld,  in  Shirwodc,  c;;.  Not- 
tingham, 1  11,  43S,  441,  443,  417,  482. 

Mantliorp,  .James,  98. 

Mauton,  co.  Rutland,  82. 

Manweiinek.    Sec  Menwynnek. 

Manwcryng.    Sec  ^laynwaryny. 

-Manyn^-ham,  Maunj ngliani,  John,  14C,  227, 
485,  570,  607. 

 ,  Oliver,  152,  3G8,  604. 

 ,  Eleanor  his  wife,  152,  368. 

Manypeny,  William,  271. 

Mapperton,  Maporton,  co.  Dorset,  457,  529. 

Marazion,  Marghaiowe,  co.  Cornwall,  104. 

3  A  2 


740 


GENERAL  INDEX. 


MaiLury,  William,  414. 
Marcactou,  co.  Derby,  62. 
Marcaunte,  John,  178. 
Marcellis,  Henry,  42. 
March,  earldom  of,  24,  180,  2G2. 

 ,   ,  chancellor  of.    See.  Martyn, 

Marchall,  Christopher,  mayor  of  York,  378. 
 ,  Robert,  878. 

 John,  74,  148,  240,  420,  50G,  513. 

Marchall,  Nicholas,  3. 

 ,  Richard,  547. 

 ,  William,  364,  384. 

  And  see  Marshall. 

Marchalleslond,  co.  Cornwall,  58.  . 
Marcham,  IVtarkham,  co.  IJeriis,  18. 
Marclianf,  Marchaunt,  John,  109,  588. 
Marclie,  John,  7G. 

 ,  Laurence,  300. 

 ,  Ralph,  381. 

Marchesey,  John,  502. 

 ,  ,  Joan  his  wife,  502. 

Murchington  under  JSTedewode,  co.  Stafford, 
536. 

Alarcigny,  Martiguy    [.Saone  et  Loire],  in 

France,  nuns  of,  62,  328. 
Marden.    See  Merden. 
Mardyke,  water  of,  co.  York,  428. 
Mare,  William  de  la,  17. 
Mareham,  Maron,  co.  Lincoln,  297,  024. 
Mareschall,  William  le,  92. 
Mareys,  Thomas,  391. 
 ,  William,  391. 

Margaret,  queen  of  Heury  VI.,  103,  229,  342, 
571. 

 ,  chancellor  of.    See  Makerell. 

,   duchess  of    Burgundy,   sister  of 

Edward  IV.,  39,  306. 
Margaretting,  Guynge  Margarets,  co.  Essex, 

192. 

Margery,  Thomas,  523. 
Marghaiowe.    See  Marazion. 
Marham,  William,  380. 
Marine,  in  Italy,  74. 
Marion,  John,  318. 
Mariscis,  Cristina  de,  93. 
Mark  by  Calais,  178,  275,451,  555. 
Markam.    See  Markham. 
Markaunt,  John,  14. 
Marke,  John,  224. 
M;irkedon,  Roger,  127. 
Market,  grant  of,  17. 
Market  Overton,  co.  Rutland,  255. 
Markfield,  Merkefeld,  co.  Leicester,  27,  517. 
Mark  Hall,  Merkhalle,  in  Latton,  co.  Essex, 
23. 

Markham.    See  Mareham. 

Markham,  Markam,  Markeham,  John,  55,  70, 

102,  103,  127,  178,  571,  619-621. 
 ,  chief  justice  of  the  King's 

Bench,  1,  12,  36,  37,  44,  50,  51,  88, 

109,  110,  116,  131,  331. 


Markham,  Robert,  247,  350,  352,  407,  462, 
619,  625. 

 Thomas,  5,  21,  98, 104,  148,  156,  298, 

359,  398,  416,  431,  481,  493,  495,  525, 
547,  570. 

 ,   ,  parson  of  Sutton  on  Derwent, 

417. 

 ,   ,  parson  of  Workington,  417. 

Markwyke,  John,  3. 

Markyate  in  Caddington,  co.  Bedford,  204. 
Marlborough,  Marleburgh,  co.  Wilts.,  419. 

 ,  charter  dated  at,  63. 

Marie,  Thomas,  251. 
Marleburgh,  Gregory,  553. 
Marlesford,  co.  Suffolk,  110. 
Marlond,  Henry,  487. 

Marlow,  Dan  John,  abbot  of  Bermoudsf;y, 

388,  390. 
Marmyon,  John,  251. 

 ,  Peter,  243,  249,  251,  286,  625,  C26. 

 William,  101,  248,  249,  251,287,350, 

406,  625,  626. 

Marnoy,  Marner,  Maryner,  Henrj',  329. 

 ,  John,  151,  155,  329,  344,  345. 

 Joan  his  wife,  15],  244,  345. 

Marom.    See  Mareham. 

!Maron.    See  ^Mareham. 

Marowe.    See  Merrow. 

jNIarrok.    See  Morocco. 

Marsburgh,  Thomas,  420. 

Marshalsea  prison,  1,  12,  36,  37,  44,  50,  51, 
109,  110,  116,  142,  178,  188,  190,  253, 
282,  293,  331,  357,  367,  375,  383,  395, 
397,  401,  410,  411,  421,  431,  444,  448, 
452,  476,  535,  549,  560,  588,  599,  600, 
602-604. 

 marshal  of,  41,  85. 

  Afid  see  Gargrave. 

Marshall,  John,  75,  315,  340,  484,  573. 

 ,  ,  Alesia  his  wife,  484. 

 ,  Peter,  100. 

 ,  Robert,  153,  355,  477. 

 ,  Thomas,  328. 

 ,  William,  209,  273,  414,  503. 

  And  see  Marchall. 

Marshland,  Mershlande,  CO.  Norfolk,  169,  170. 

 ,  CO.  York,  428. 

Marshwood,  Mershewode,  co.  Dorset,  447. 

  [in  Carhampton],  co.  Somerset,  344, 

473. 

Marsop.    See  Worksop. 
Marston,  Merston  [co.  York],  601. 
Marston  Meysey,  Merston  Meysy,  co.  Wilts, 
232,  241. 

  ^forteyne,  co.  Bedford,  1, 

Marston,  John,  382,  435,  632. 

 ,  Thomas,  435. 

  And  see  Merston. 

Martigny.    See  Marcigny. 

Martin,  Julian,  377. 

Martin,  Nicholas,  son  of,  465. 


GENERAL  INDEX. 


711 


Martlndale,  co.  AVeRtmorclaud,  9G. 
Martiuus,  John,  480. 

Martival,    Roger    de,  bishop  of  Salisbury 

[1315-1330],  371. 
Martock,  Mertok,  co.  Somerset,  226,  339,  503. 
Marton,  Morton,  co.  AVestniorcland,  32,  137. 

 in  Craven,  co.  York,  505,  549. 

Martyn,  GeoflFrey,  49,  426. 
 ,  Gilbert,  367. 

 ,  John,  28,  76,  80,  8:?,  101,  203,  286, 

327,  355,  553,  574. 

 ,   ,  parson  of  Littic  Waltham,  6. 

 ,   the  elder  203. 

 Peter,  126,  493. 

 Richard,  197,  287,  302,  366,  427,  563, 

601,  615,  616,  628,  636. 

 ,  ,  dean  of  Bridgnorth,  600. 

 ,   chancellor  of  the  earldom  of 

March,  262. 

 ,  ,  archdeacon  of  London,  597. 

,,  ,  ,  prebeadary  of  St.  Stcpheu'i 

Westminster,  267. 

 ,  canon  of  Hereford,  448. 

 ,  ,  parson  of  St.  Feter's,  Guisaes, 

358. 

 ,  Robert,  101,  151,  197,  288,  389,  437, 

618. 

 ,  Thomas,  60,  220,  267,  405,  428,  475, 

552,  573,  592,  613. 

 ,  parson  of  Pettam,  266. 

 ,  William,  60,  211,  216,  269,  546. 

Mary,  the  king's  daughter,  110. 
Maryner,  William,  322. 

  And  see  Marney. 

Maryng,  Mayryng,  co.  Lincoln,  297,  321. 
Maryngthorpe.    See  Morningthorpe. 
Maryot,  John,  2. 

 ,  Richard,  349,  608. 

Maschall,  Henry,  499. 
Masbam  [co.  York],  599. 
Maslond.    See  Maaslond. 
Maslond,  William,  448. 
Mason,  Alexander,  260. 

 ,  Christopher,  396. 

 ,  Edmund,  2, 

 John,  83,  147,  277,  384,  431. 

 ,  ,  Margaret  his  wife,  147. 

 ,  Richard,  8. 

 ,  Robert,  215,  321. 

 ,  Thomas,  487. 

 William,  216. 

Massam,  John,  286. 
Massy,  Alvercd,  83. 

 ,  Henry,  139. 

 ,  John,  377. 

Massyngbord,  Masyngberde,  John,  316,  596. 

 ,  Thomas,  316. 

Mata,  Thomas,  427. 
Mate,  Thomas,  77. 
Mateshall.    Sec  Matlishall. 


Mathell,  John,  the  elder,  635. 
Mathewe,  Richard,  226. 

 ,  Walter,  416,  411,  536. 

 ,  William,  49,  50,  75,  200,  260,  331, 

402,  458,  555. 
Mathon,  Matham,  co.  Worcester,  3. 
Matilda  the  Empress,  13. 
Matravers,  Thomas  de,  196,  199. 

  And  see  Arimdell. 

Mattishall,  Mateshall,  co.  Norfolk,  31. 
Mauclerk,  Walter,  bishop  of  Carlisle  [1223- 

1246],  17. 
JIaudeleyn,  Richard,  336. 
Maudelcyn  Laver.    See  Magdalen  Lavcr. 
Maudou.    See  Mahlon. 
Mauleverer,  Halnath,  246,  247,  269,  612. 

  Arid  see  Malleverer. 

Mauley,  Thomas,  497,  524,  526,  572. 
Mauncell,  Cecily,  586. 

 ,  Richard,  420. 

 ,  Thomas,  391. 

 ,  ,  Theobalda  his  wife,  391. 

 ,  ,  escheator  in   Souiersct,  194. 

522. 

 ,  William,  193,  200. 

  And  see  Maiin.«c'll  ;  Mnuutell. 

Maunche,  John,  10,  503. 

 ,  Robert,  353. 

Maundelynes  [co.  Meatli],  50<. 
Maunsell,  John,  60. 

Mauntcli,  Walter,  349,  405,  557,  584,623,  625. 

  A7id  see  Mauncell. 

Maunteyn,  Richard,  197. 
Maurice  ap  Jevan,  77. 

 ,  ,  Juliana  hia  wife,  77. 

Mawdeslcy,  Moudcsluy,  co.  Lancaster,  17. 
Maxey,  Makesey,  co.   Northampton,  151, 
294. 

Mnxstoke,  Maysfokc,  co.  Warwick,  12. 
May,  Edward,  576. 

 ,  John,  101,  16S.  169,  171,  409. 

 ,  rector  of  Allhallows   at  the 

Hay,  London,  564,  565. 
Mayde,  John,  331. 
Maydeford.    See  Maidford. 
Maye,  Robert,  417. 
Mayer,  William,  486. 
Mayhow,  Mayhowe,  Richard,  79. 
 ,   ,    parson    of    St.     Potir  bv 

Calais,  309. 

 ,   parson  of  Winclielsea,  265. 

Mayland,  co.  Essex,  14. 
Majle,  Richard,  489,  566. 
Mr.yleghwyn,  John,  77. 
Maynarbyere.    See  Manorbicr. 
Maynesforth,  ^layncsford,  John,  281. 
Mayuwaryng,  Manweryng,  Jc  hn,  402,  491. 

 Thomas,  24 1 . 

 ,  William,  628. 


J 4.2  GENEEAL  INDEX. 


^fayrp,  Henrj',  119. 

JIjjT^-ng.    See  Maryr.g. 

JIayson,  "William,  216. 

Jleasdeii,  Mcsedcn,  co.  Hertford,  321. 

Meath,  Methe,  in  Ireland,  273. 

 ,  county  of,  193,  468. 

 ,  bishop  of.    See  Sherwood. 

 diocese  of,  46.5. 

jSIeaux,  Mewes,  co.  York,  ahhot  of,  75. 

 William,  abbot  of,  382. 

Mecheley,  John,  3G2. 

Mede,  I'hilip,  mayor  of  Bristol,  129,  172. 

 ,  Richard,  6. 

Medessholl.    See  Mitchell. 

Aledici,  society  of,  481. 

Medicis,  Prosper  Camilio  dc,  o86,  .'j57. 

Medway  river,  1S8. 

Medwaj',  ship  called  la  Trinili:  of,  526. 
Jleer?,  Thomas,  285,  619. 
MefCelj'n,  John,  76. 

 ,  "iViilitun,  76. 

]\Iegcr,  Tiobert,  251. 

Aleivod,  Meyvode  [co.  Montgomery],  233. 
Mekelond.    Sre  Mackland. 
Mekulton.    S.'c  ?\Iii:k!eton. 
Mekylfeld,  Mekelfeld,  William,  406,  631. 
Mclborne.    Sci-  .Milboinc. 
^Melbourne,  Melhiune,  eo.  York,  115. 
Melbourne,  iilelbor;),  Melhurne,  Johu,  226, 
318. 

 ,  Thomas,  1,  148,  318. 

 AVilliam,  120. 

Melburj-,  John,  61. 

Melchet  [in  I'laitforJ,  co.  Wilts],  G48. 
Melchuyt,  eo.  Wilt.s,  forest  of,  547. 
Melen,  Koland,  287. 
Mell,  Eoger,  £56. 
Mellesden.    See  Molesdoii. 
Meilis,  CO.  Suffolk,  499. 
Melros,  William,  84. 
^lelsenby,  William,  223. 
]^I<.-lson,  John.  Sol- 
Melton  Mowbray,  co  Leicester,  212. 
Melton.    See,  Milton. 
MfltOD,  John,  261,  636. 
 ,  W;i  iani,  433. 

 ,  William  de,  dean  of  St.  Martin  le 

Grand,  Loudon,  99. 
Afi  mbury,  co.  Devon,  461,  551. 
Meadham,  Mendani,  co.  Suffolk,  297,  538. 
Mendliam,    Menedam,   Mendame,  William, 

31)7. 

Jfendlesham,  ]\[endelysham,  co.  Suffolk,  3. 
Mendryra,  John,  587. 
Mcnerell,  Thomas,  253. 

Jlfcuerere,  William  de  la,  prior  of  Tickford, 
376. 

jrciK'tliorpe,  Menkthorpe  [co.  York],  286. 
Weugliara,  co.  Soiithnmptnii,  9t. 


Menkthorpe.    See  Mencthorpe. 
Menwyunek,  Manwennek,  Robert,  588. 

 ,  William,  65,  246,  610. 

Merablc,  Simon,  82. 
Mercer,  Ralph,  57,  128. 

 ,  Robert,  128. 

 ,  William,  128. 

Mercians,  king  of.    See  Kenulf. 

Mercier,  John  le,  354. 

Merden,  Marden,  co.  Kent,  457,  529. 

 hundred  of,  301. 

Mere,  -Meere,  co.  Stafford,  470. 
Mereworth,  co.  Kent,  110. 
Merford,  co.  Salop,  192. 
Meriden,  Mcryden,  co.  Warwick,  145. 
Merifeld,  Meryfeld,  John,  55,  308. 
Merioneth,  Merennetb,  county  of,  113,  165, 
193. 

 ,   ,  sheriff  of.    See  Chamberlcyn, 

Mei-iot.    See  Merriott. 
MtrkefL-kl.    See  Markfield. 
Merkhalle.    See  Mark  Hall. 
Merland,  Henry,  405. 
Mermyn,  John,  419. 
Merriott,  Jleriot,  co.  Somerset,  456. 
Merrow,  jMarowe,  co.  Surrey,  578. 
Mersf^'n,  co.  Northumberland,  523. 
Mersham,  co.  Kent,  301. 
Mershewode.    See  Marshwood. 
Mershlande.    See  Marshland. 
Merssh,  Edmund,  147. 
Mersshbaldyngton.    See  Baldon  Marsh. 
Mersshewode,    See  Marshwood, 
Merstou.    See  Marston. 
Merslon,  John,  253,  382,  632. 

 ,   ,  Rose  his  wife,  253. 

 ,  Riehard,  515. 

 ,  AVilliam,  632. 

]Mert3k.  See  Martock. 
Merton,  co.  Oxford,  74. 

 ,  eo.  Surrey,  prior  and  convent  of,  111, 

183. 

 ,  charter  dated  at,  423. 

  And  see  Marton. 

Merton,  Roger,  49,  331. 
Mervyu,  John,  306,  311,  443,  603. 

 ,  Walter,  603. 

Mery,  Johu,  375. 
Meryfeld.    5ee  Merifeld. 
Meryman,  Thomas,  506. 
Merynges,  AVilliam,  199,  S50,  625. 
]\Ieryngthorpc.    See  Morningthorpe. 
Mescliines,  Hugh  de,  earl  of  Chester,  35. 

 ,  Ranulph  de,  carl  of  Chester  and 

Lincoln,  34,  35. 

Mcsedeu.    See  Measden. 

Mcsele,  co.  Buckingham,  471. 

Mcstcil,  Thomas,  68, 


GENERAL  INDEX. 


743 


Metcalfe,  Metkalf,  George,  216, 

 James,  21,  ll'J. 

 ,  John,  21. 

 ,   ,  Alice  bis  wife,  21. 

 ,  Lionel,  215. 

 Miles,  21,  177,  572,  G37. 

 ,  Thomas,  21,  334,  421. 

Meteham,  Thomas,  199. 
Mctehome,  profit  called,  13G. 
Metheley,  John,  407,  4C2,  G25. 

 ,  Thomas,  131. 

Methop,  Dan  John,  49. 
Metkalf.    See  Metcalfe. 
Metley,  Thomas,  627. 
Mcttou,  CO.  Norfolk,  191. 
Metton,  Ileury,  353. 
Metyngliam,  Walter,  79. 

 ,   Alice  his  wife,  79. 

Meuland,  Roger  de,  bishop  of  Coventry  and 

Lichfield  [1257-1295],  425. 
Meur,  Hervey,  198. 
Mcvvcs.    See  Mcaux. 
Jlewburne,  John,  142. 
Mewyni,  co.  Devon,  60. 
Mey,  Thomas,  385,  582. 
Meye,  Stephen,  318. 
Mey  re,  llobert,  579. 

 ,  Thomas,  318. 

Meyvodc.    .See  Meivod. 
Mezcc,  Peter  le,  521. 

Michelhall,  in  Swaffham  Ijiilbcck,  co.  Cam- 
bridge, 538. 

Michelhampton.    See  Minchinhanipton. 

Michcll,  Alan,  203. 

 ,  Henry,  571. 

 ,  John,  104,  369. 

 ,  Nicholas,  552. 

 ,  William,  104,  236. 

  Aud  see  Mychell. 

Michelson,  Robert,  266,  368,  513,  526. 

I\Iickfield,  Mykelfeld,  co.  Suffolk,  225,  326. 

Mickleton,  Mckulton,  co.  Gloucester,  481. 

Middelhurg,  Midclboiirgh,  in  Zceland,  240, 
282. 

Middclham,  Myddcliiam,  John,  286,  336. 
Middelmorc,  John,  10. 
Middclton.    Sec  Milton. 
INIiddeltoD,  Midelton,  David,  54,  490. 

  ..,  George,  141,  221. 

 ,  John,  427. 

 Nicholas,  490. 

 Richard,  346,  531,  571,  624. 

 ,  ,  Matilda  his  wife,  346. 

 ,  Richard,  parson  of  Siddington,  271. 

 Stephen,  600. 

 ,   ,  Emma  his  ■wife,  600. 

 ,  Thomas,  4,  106,  355,  426,  572,  635, 

638. 

 ,   ,  Margaret  his  wife,  4. 


Middelton,  Adam  de,  602. 

 ,  Peter  de,  602. 

 ,  Thomas  do,  602. 

  And  see  Middletou. 

Middelwode,  co.  York,  477. 

Middilton,  AViiliani,  437. 

Midilton.    Sec  Middletou. 

Middleham,  co.  York,  185,  215,  260,  266, 
483,  486,  487. 

Middlesex,  county  of,  19,  22,  50,  94,95,99, 
102,  151,  178,  218,  222,  232,  248,  252, 
263,  274,  278,  280,  349,  353,  405,  462, 
463,  492,  496,  509,  540,  546,  556, 
557. 

 ,  ,  sherifY  of,  20,  178,  25?,  274, 

280,  295,  379,  492,  557. 
 And  r.ce  Smyth;  Ileriot  ;  Stokker ; 

IJillcsdon  ;  llricc  ;  Cohvyche. 
  escheator  in,  123,  135,  206, 

265,  373,  391,  472,  597,  598. 
  And  see  Dotelcr;  Willy;    Towc ; 

Cliflfoid. 

 ,   ,  outlawries  in,  3,  5-8,  11,20, 

37,  49,  72-75,  77-82,  141,  143-1  19, 
173,  178,  188,  189,  202-204,  223-228, 
253,  254,  256,  257,  282,  320-32-', 
324-327,  331,  357,  362,  364,  ;;67,  380, 
383-387,397,  410,  431-430,413,453, 
482,  498-504,  549,  560,  575-577,  579- 
582,  602,  604. 

 ,   ,  coroner  in,  329. 

 justices  of  the  peace  in,  252. 

 ,  ,  commissions  of  the  peace  of, 

621. 

Middlcton,  Midilton,  co.  Suffolk,  484. 

  [co.  Stafford],  357. 

 CO.  York,  334,  531. 

 CO.  Wilts,  63. 

 Hr3'mraesfeld,  co.  Wilts,  206. 

  And  sec  Milton. 

Middleton,  John,  100,  161,  197. 

 ,  Stephen,  161. 

 ,  William,  161. 

  de,  bishop  of  Norwich  [1278- 

1288],  539. 

  yl«(/ it'c  Middelton. 

Midforde.    See  Mitford, 

Midley,  Mydlc,  co.  Kent,  283,  516. 

Midnyght,  William,  parson  of  Ilarwcy  by 

Calais,  482. 

 ,  ,  parson  of  St.  Michael,  Nortli- 

ampton,  482. 
Mikkulton.    See  Mickleton. 
Milbornc,  Melborne  [co.  Somerset],  53. 

 ,  Mclbornbeke,  co.  Dorset,  63. 

 ,  Milburo,  Simon,  407,  615,  616. 

Mildenhall,  co.  Suffolk,  4,  49. 

 CO.  Wilts,  466. 

Mildrede,  William,  5. 

Mile  Iv.ul,  CO.  Middlesex,  375,  388. 

Miles,  Mylcs,  Mylys,  David,  parson  of  Pad- 
worth,  230.' 


744 


GENERAL  INDEX. 


Miles,  John,  125,  320,  435. 

 ap  Kerry,  388,  4C9. 

!Milewater,  ^Mjlewater,  Eleanor,  390. 
 Thomas,  390. 

 ,  John,  54,  57,  58,  GO,  102,  120,  198. 

]\Iilford,  Milforth  by  Shirbouru  in  Elraet,  co. 
York,  145. 

Milford.  Milleford,  William,  20,  95,  248. 

Mille,  Mulle,  Mylle,  Hugh,  20,  119,  283,  512. 
Humphrey,  453. 

 ,  John,  211,381. 

 ,  Nicholas,  576,  578. 

 Reginald,  453,  454. 

 ,  Richard,  435. 

 ,  Thomas,  257. 

 ,   ,  the  younger,  453. 

 ,   ,  the  elder,  453,  454. 

 ,  Marjory  his  ivife,  453. 

 ,  William,  110,  448,  453,  454. 

Miller,  Henry,  54. 

,  ,  John,  164. 

 ,  Peter,  113. 

 ,  Thomas,  481. 

 ,  William,  178. 

]\lill()m,  Mj'Uum,  co.  CuiubLi'liUid,  2C8. 

Millow,  Milnho,  co.  Bedford,  485. 

Millyng,  Master  Thomas,  abbot  of  West- 
minster, 17:),  2'jr,,  408,  472,  474,  476. 

 ,    bishop  of  Hereford  [1474- 

1492],  467,  472,  474,  476,  615,  616, 
628,  636. 

Milne,  John,  146. 

Milnebek.    See  Milnthorpe. 

Milner,  Thomas,  215,  277. 

  And  see  Mylncr. 

Milnho.    See  Millow. 

Milnthorpe,  Subtusm^  hu'bek  [co.  West- 
moreland], 334,  531. 

Milstcad,  Mylkestede,  co.  Kent,  469. 

2>Iiltou,  CO.  Cambridge,  276. 

 ,  Melton,  Middeltou,  co.  Kent,  6,  101, 

433,  457,  529,  561. 

 ,  hundred  of,  302,  457,  529,  561. 

 Bryan,  co.  Bedford,  191. 

  Damerell,  co.  Devon,  36. 

Milton,  Richard,  179,  338. 

Milward,  Milleward,  John,  436,  440. 

 ,  Thomas,  320,  481. 

  ^nt/ see  Mylwarde. 

Mims,  Mymmes,  North,  co.  Hertford,  337. 

 ,  South,  CO.  Middlesex,  178,  436. 

Minchinhamptou,  Michelharapton,  Nun's 
Hampton,  co.  Gloucester,  65,  453,  534. 

Minehead,  Mynhed,  co.  Somerset,  330,  364, 
522,  525. 

Mines,  132,  464,  506,  513. 

Minster,  Mynster,  co.  Kent,  302,  55C. 

Minstcrwovth,  co.  Gloucester,  433,  481,  588. 

Mints.  See  Bristol  ;  Cilais  ;  Coventry  ; 
Purham  ;  Loudon;  Noi wi«h ;  York, 


Mirfield,  Thomas,  144. 

Missenden,    Mussendeu,    co.  Buckingham, 

Robert  Ryseburgh,  abbot  of,  288. 
Missynden,  Bernard,  352. 
Mistertou,  co.  Nottingham,  157. 

 ,  CO.  Somerset,  458,  530. 

Mitchell,  Medessholl,  co.  Cormvall,  1. 
Mitford,  Midforde,  co.  Northumberland,  523. 
Mittou,  CO.  Worcester,  110. 
Milton,  William,  347,  628,  630. 
Moalones.    See  Molene. 
Mochelney.    See  Muchelney. 
Mockyng.    See  Mucking. 
Modbergh,  co.  Somerset,  93. 
Modbury,  co.  Devon,  priory  of,  63. 
Mody,  John,  182. 

Moigne,  Thomas,  200,  285,  354,  621. 
Moile.    -See  Hiloyle. 
Mokkyng.    Sec  Mucking. 
Moklowe,  John,  365. 

 ,  William,  398. 

Mole,  John,  49,  323,  331. 
Molene,  Moalones  (in  Finisterc),  in  Britann^', 
474. 

Molesdou,  Mellesdeu,  co.  Northumberland, 
523. 

Molcyns,  Thomas,  171,  225,  326. 
Mollyng,  William,  vicar  of  Bradwell,  502. 
Molyneux,  Edmund,  246-248,  608. 
 ,  ,  sheriff  of  Bedford  and  Buck- 
ingham, 591. 
 ,  Robert,  169. 

 ,  Thomas,  247,  407,  462,  490,  497,  572, 

625. 

 ,  William,  208,  218. 

Molyus,  William,  lord  of  Molyns,  368. 
Mompespoii,  Monpesson,  Mounpcsson,  John, 
2;;0,  3.t6,  406,  408,  427,  428,  463,  635. 
Monca,  William,  44. 
Monde,  John,  526. 

Mone,  Mouue,  John,  196,  220,  284,  406,  428, 

552,  573,  613. 
Moueux,  in  Rockland,  co.  Norfolk,  515. 
Moniash.    See  Monyash. 
Monk  Bretton,  Monkverton,  cr>.  York,  385. 

 ,  Richard,  prior  of,  385,  435. 

Monke,  John,  578,  589. 
Moukenfarlegh.    See  Monkton  Farleigh. 
Monkered,  in  Flanders,  57,  129. 
Monkes  Bradfeld,  co.  Suff'olk,  36. 

IMoukbnd,  Monkelane,  co.  Hereford,  alien 
priory  of,  424. 

Monk    Okehampton,    iNlonkehampton,  co. 
Devon,  24,  45. 

MoukShciborne,  Wcstshiibornc  Monacliorum, 
CO.  Southampton,  priory  of,  394. 

Moiiksilver,  co.  Somerset,  4C1,  551. 

Monks'   Kirby,   Kirkcby  Mouachoriirap  co. 
Warwick,  133. 


GENERAL  INDEX. 


745 


Monks'  Kirby,  priory  of,  136. 

 ,  prior  and  convent  of,  135. 

Monkton,  co.  Kent,  108,  446. 

Monktou  Farleigh,  Monkenfarlcgh,  co.  Wilts, 

priory  of,  97,  313. 

 ,  prior  of,  63,  328. 

 ,  Dan  John  Strattou,  prior  of,  97. 

 ,  Dan  John  Shiouesbury,  prior  of,  97. 

 ,  Dan  Thomas  Grove,  prior  of,  313. 

Monkton,  Moor,  Moremonktou,  co.  York,  483, 

486,  487. 
Monkvertou.    Sec  Monk  lirctton, 
Monnemoutb,  Richard,  453. 
Monnyng,  John,  323. 
Monpesson.    See  Mompcsson. 
de  Mont,  Eobert,  333. 

Montacutc,  co.  Somerset,  priory  of  S.S.  Peter 
and  Paul,  14,  15. 

 ,  convent  of,  14,  15. 

 ,  prior  of,  63,  461. 

,,,  ,  Dan  Robert  Criche,  prior  of,  14,  15. 

 John  Dore,  prior  of,  15. 

 ,  John  Water,  sub-prior  of,  15. 

Moutacute,  Mountague,  Thomas,  carl  of  Salis- 
bury, 30,  550. 

 ,  ,  Alice  his  wife,  550. 

Montagu,  Mouctaga,  Mouutygowc,  Richard, 
242,  256. 

 ,  WiUiam,  of  Ileii'.cy,  406,  428. 

Monte  Ferralo,  Ahin  de,  154. 

Montcfort.    Sec  Moiitfort. 

Monte  Gomeri,  Walter  dc,  shcrilF  of  Notting- 
ham and  Derby,  130. 

Montfort,  Mountford,  Simon,  106,  218,  348, 
405,  606,  634. 

Montgomery,  22. 

Montgomery,  Mougomery,  Mouutgomcry, 
John,  parson  of  Solihull,  206. 

 ,  Thomas,  112,  151,  173,  195,  199,  287, 

309,  317,  329,  :!44,  345,  351,  407,  490, 
523,  528,  532,  538,  571,  578,  583,  586, 
608,  613. 

Monyash,  Moniash,  co.  Derby,  397,  460,  541, 
562. 

Monyngton,  Thomas,  220,  284,  407,  520,  615, 
616. 

 ,   ,  sheriff  of  Hereford,  424. 

Moone,  John,  293. 
Moore,  Henry,  351. 

 ,  Reginald,  561 . 

Moor,  James,  93. 

Moor  End,  Morobeiide,  co.  Northampton, 
457. 

INIcor  Park,  More   [iu  Riekiiumswortli] ,  co. 

Hertford,  619. 
]\Ioortou,  Richard,  the  older,  101. 
]\Iorand,  Philip,  53.  . 
Morden,  Moredon,  eo.  Surrey,  78. 

 ,  Steeple,  co.  Cambridge,  501. 

]Morc,  574. 

 ,  CO.  Hereford,  484. 


More,  CO.  Oxford,  67. 

  [co.  Salop],  294. 

More.    See  Littlemore  ;  Moor. 
More,  Geoffrey,  501. 

 ,  Henry,  57,  405,  417,  429,  629. 

 John,  61,  89,  192,  210,  219,  268,  456, 

499. 

 ,   ,  Windsor  herald,  20!,  217.  22). 

  Dame  Margaret,  abbess  of  Godstow, 

239,  241. 

 ,  Nicholas,  596. 

 ,  Philip,  404,  405,  429. 

 ,  Richard,  80,  147,  173,  289,  38.;. 

 ,  Thomas,  75,  112,  208,  380,  381. 

  Tristram,  p.arson  of  Dorchester,  544. 

 ,  AVilliam,  19,  24. 

 John  at,  08. 

atte  More,  Henry,  571. 

 ,  John,  571. 

 ,  William,  571. 

Moreby,  John,  prior  of  Epwortli,  136. 

Moredon.    See  Morden. 

Morehende.    See  Moor  End. 

Moreholme  [eo.  Lancaster],  334,  531,  532. 

Moreland,  Tliomas,  281. 

Morell,  Ivlward,  00. 

Moremonktou.    .Sec  .Monkton. 

Morend  [co.  Northampton],  345,  529. 

Moreqwate  [co.  Cumberland],  215. 

Morer,  .Afastcr  John,  parson  of  Ashbury,  280. 

Mores,  John,  82. 

Moresby,  Chrisfopher,  288,  334,  330,423.490 
606,  610,  635. 

 »  •         escheator  of  Cumberland  and 

Westmoreland,  345. 

 >  sheriff  of  Cuuibe:laud,  345. 

 ,  sheriff  of  Westmoreland,  345. 

 ,  Elizabeth,  24,  43. 

 ,  James,  596. 

 ,  Thomas,  407. 

Moreslcy.    See  Moseley. 
Moresley,  Thomas,  350,  624. 
Moretou,  Morton,  co.  Essex,  1 60. 

 ,  South,  CO.  Berks,  147. 

Moreton.    See  Corbet. 
Moreton,  Ralph,  289. 

 ,  Roger,  49,  331. 

 ,  William,  49,  331,  604. 

  And  see  Morton. 

Morevcs  iu  Waldingfichl,  co.  Suffolk,  480. 
Moreys,  Thon;as,  rector  of  Belchalwell,  92. 
Mi)rfell.    See  Morville. 
Morgan,  David,  375. 

 >  Hugh,  dean  of  Rangor,  134. 

 >   parson  of  Llanaber,  304. 

 ,  John,  29. 

 ,  Philip,  220,  319,  635. 

 J   ,  parson  of  Bladon,  213. 

 '  Thomas,  29,  30,  54,  57,  58,  102,  317. 

331,  407,  450,  453,  463. 


746 


GENERAL  INDEX. 


Morgan  ap  Meredith,  107. 

  ap  Jeliaukyn  ap  Philip,  rji,  561. 

  ap  Thomas  ap  Griffith,  180. 

Morice  Perrenot,  201,  217,  221. 

 ,  Kobert,  208. 

 ,  William,  198. 

Morisse,  Peter,  213. 

 ,  Eobert,  213. 

Morisson,  Peter,  309. 

Morlaix,  Mourleis,  iu  Britanuy,  198. 

 ,  ship  called  le  Marye  of,  198. 

Mori  and,  Morloud,  John,  75. 

 ,  William,  325,  583. 

 ,  ,  canon  of  St.  Paul's,  Loudon, 

590. 

 ,   ,  prebendary  of  St.  Stephen's, 

Westminster,  244,  590. 
 ,  ,  keeper  of  the  rolls  of  Chancery, 

245. 

 ,   ,  dean  of  St.  George's,  AVindsor, 

245. 

Morley,  Nicholas,  72,  247,  249,  320,  322,  351, 
"  406,  G33. 

 ,  Richard,  203. 

 ,  Robert,  5G0. 

  see  Lovell. 

Moniin/flliorpe,  ISIiiryngthorpc,  co.  Norfolk, 
:j'J7,  562. 

Jloroeco,  Marrok,  the  straits  of,  11,  53,  59, 
85,  87,  108,  126,  132,  134,  153,  155, 
160,  161,  105,  212,  213,  270,  273,  30G, 
34],  389,  415,  445,532,  533,  546,  547, 
559,  5C0. 

Mortuin,  count  of.    See  John. 

IMorteignc,  alien  deanery  of,  62. 

Mortimer,  Mortemer,  Mortymer,  David,  491. 

 ,  John,  431. 

 ,  Robert,  548. 

Morton,  Moreton,  co.  Lincoln,  297,  560. 

 ,  iu  Uinton,  co.  Buckingham,  309. 

  Brutes.    See  Birts  Morton. 

 ,  Little,  Lytelmorton,  co.  Cornwall, 

383. 

  Sawbery,  CO.  Salop,  521. 

  And  see  Moreton. 

Morton,  Charles,  77. 

 ,  John,  261,  363,  380,  582. 

 ,   ,  archdeacon  of  Norwich,  39. 

 ,  keeper  of  the  rolls  of  Chancery, 

334,  345,  366,  374,  379,  472,  516,  517, 

583,  557. 

 ,  Nicholas,  883. 

 ,  Richard,  the  cider,  168. 

 ,  Eobert,  23. 

 ,  Thomas,  144. 

Mortornc,  co.' Salop,  192. 

Mortymer.    Sec  Mortimer. 

Morval,  Morvcll,  co.  Cornwall,  1"5,  575. 

Morvillc,  Alorfell  [co.  Salop],  prebend  of, 

338. 

Moryngthorpe.    Sec  Moruiugthorpc. 


Morys,  Edmund,  318. 

 ,  John,  60. 

 ,  Richard,  415. 

 ,  Robert,  299,  333. 

 ;  Stephen,  146. 

 ,  Thomas,  65. 

 William,  288. 

Moseley,  Moresley,  co.  Worcester,  411. 

  And  see  Mowsley. 

Mossdale,  co.  Cumberland,  96. 
Mosse,  John,  74. 
!Mote,  lord  of.    See  Wydevillc. 
Mothewey,  John,  440. 
Moton,  Motton,  Richard,  444. 

 ,  Robert,  104. 

 ,   ,  Elizabeth  his  -wife,  104. 

  William,  98,  287,  292,  350,  405,  515, 

517,  619. 

 ,   ,  escheator  in  the  county  of 

Warwick,  133. 
Mouden,  Laurence,  7 1 . 
IMoudesley.    See  Mawdesley. 
Moulton,  Multou,  in  Holand,  co.  Lincoln,  384, 

431. 

 ,  CO.  Norfolk,  191. 

i   ,  CO.  Suffolk,  93. 

'   ,  CO.  York,  200,  483,  486,  487. 

•  Mounby.    See  Mumby. 
j  Mounceaux,  Simon,  387. 
i  Mounde\ile,  jNlichael,  224. 

Mounley,  William,  224. 

Slouutague.    See  Moutacutc. 

Mount  Carmel,  order  of,  333,  375. 

 ,  prior  of,  333. 

Mouuteyu,  Richard,  289,  525. 

Mounteynys  Ynge.    See  Monntucssing. 

?\Iountferant,  Bertram,  lord,  52. 
j   Petronilla  his  wife,  52. 

Mountfort.    Sec  Monlfort. 
I  Mountgomery.    See  Montgomery. 

Mountgracc,  co.  York,  prior  and  convent  of, 
304. 

 ,  Robert,  prior  of,  304. 

Mountjoy,  lord  of.    See  Blount. 
Mountnessing,  Mounteynys  Ynge,  co.  Essex, 
369. 

Mount  Orgueil,  in  Jersey,  124. 

Mount's  Bav,  Montcsbay,  co.  Cornwall,  54, 
101.  " 

Mounttane,  Alan,  244. 
Llountygowe.    See  Montagu. 
Mourleix.    See  Morlaix. 
Mourne,  Mowrne,  in  Ireland,  1G5. 
jMourton,  Richard,  357. 
IMonsele,  lord  of.    See  Adourins. 
I\I()uselioIe,  IMousoIc,  co.  Cornwall,  77,  104. 
Mowbray,  Anne,  59'.). 
..........  Joan,  107. 


GENERAL  INDEX. 


747 


Mowbray,  John,  third  duke  of  Norfolk,  2G, 
90,  107,  191,  192,  293. 

 ,,   ,  Eleanor,  diiclicss  of  Norfolk,  liis 

-wife,  132,  191,  293,  488. 

 ,  John,  fourth  duke,  83,90,  lU),  112, 

122,  132,  163,  191,  192,  195-197,  199, 
245,  247,  317,  351-353,  373,  408,  488, 
502,  539,  583,  593,  599,  622,  626,  630, 
633. 

 ,  Elizabeth,  duchess  of  Norfolk, 

his  wife,  83,  112,  122. 
 ,  Katharine,  duchess  of  Norfolk,  19, 

27,  132,  200,  310,  458,  5J7,  518,  523, 

530. 

Mowene,  John,  386. 

Moweton,  William,  433. 

Mowntford,  Ediiumd,  33". 

Mow.slcy,  Moseley,  co.  Leicester,  153. 

Moyle,  Moile,  John,  400,  403,  404,  610. 

 ,  Walter,  70,  71,  84,  102,  103,  127, 128, 

170,  171,  221,  246,  247,  251,  593,  610, 
612,  613,  618,  628,  629,  635. 

,  ,  ,  justice  of  the  Bench,  179,  181, 

227,  229,  344. 

Moyne,  .John,  100. 

IMuchegrossc,  co.  Herefoid,  4.)0,  403,  .'>i)'>. 
Muchclncy,  Mochclncy,  co.  Somerset,  abbey 
of,  241,  203,  266. 

 ,  convent  of,  239,  260. 

 ,  abbot  of,  15. 

 William   Crukernc,  abbot   of,  239, 

260. 

 ,  John  Bracy,  abbot  of,  241,  263,  266. 

Mucking,  Mockyng,  Mukyng,  co.  Essex,  146, 
147. 

Mudde,  John,  286,  288. 

 ,  ,  Joan  his  wife,  286,  288. 

Mukyng.    See  Mucking. 

Mulgrave,  co.  York,  102. 

]\Iullc.    See  Milb. 

Mulso,  CO.  liedford,  ,")€  I. 

Mulso,  William,  248,  319,  137,  622. 

^lulton.    See  Moultoii. 

INIulton,  Bartholomew,  2. 

 ,  John  de,  43. 

 Bobort,  prior  of  St.  Juhn  of  Jeru- 
salem, 526,  5-15. 

 ,  ,  warden  of  the  east  and  middle 

marches  of  Scotland,  545. 

 ,  William,  433. 

Mumby,  Moumby,  co.  Lincoln,  457,  529, 
530. 

Mundani.    See  Luzerne. 
Tilunden,  Little,  co.  Hertford,  ."SI. 
Mundham,  North,  NorthniuuJam,  co.  Sussex, 

03,  461. 
Mune,  John,  GO. 
Murage,  54,  393. 
Murton,  Margaret,  215. 

Musbury,  co.  Devon,  23,  171,  170,  189,  280, 

457,  5C9. 
Muscote  [co,  Cambridge],  170. 


Musgrave,  Joan,  215,  288. 

 ,  John,  288. 

 ,  Nicholas,  215,  288. 

 ,  Bichard,  610,  633. 

 ,   ,  the  elder,  035. 

 ,  lioger,  464. 

 ,  Thomas,  480. 

 ,  AViiliam,  215,  288. 

Muskam,  William,  559. 

Muskham,  North,  Northmoscham,  co.  Not- 
tingham, 316. 

 ,  South,  prebend  of,  559. 

Mussendcu.    Sec  Missendeu. 
Muston,  Thomas,  218,  634. 

 ,  William,  291. 

Mycfelude.    See  Mickfield. 
Myche,  John,  318. 
Mychell,  Ivo,  366. 

  And  see  Michell. 

Myddelham.    See  Middelham. 
Mydle.    See  Midlcy. 
Mygnol,  Edward  le,  198. 
:Mykelfeld.    See  Mickfield. 
IVfyles.    See  Miles. 
Mylcwater.    See  Milcwater. 
Mylkestcde.    See  Milstcad. 
filylle.    .SVe  Jlillo. 
Mylluni.    .S'ce  Millom. 
Mylncr,  William,  573. 

  And  sec  Milucr. 

Mylsam,  John,  !51. 
Mylton.    Sec  Milton. 
Mylwarde,  William,  39. 

  And  sec  Mihvard. 

Mymmcs.    Sec  Mims. 
Myudrem,  Myudrym,  John,  81,  587. 
Mynet,  Bobert,  501. 
Mynhed.    See  Minehead. 
Mynors,  Bichard,  451. 
Mynskyp,  Thomas,  427,  577. 
Mynte,  Thomas,  141. 

iMynteshede,  Myntished,  co.  Westmoreland, 
106,  177. 

Mynyn  Knault  de  la  Pappe,  201,  217,  221. 
Myres,  John,  215. 
 ,  Bobert,  216. 


N. 

Naanby.    See  Navenby. 
Nabbe,  Thomas,  325. 
Naffcrton,  co.  York,  541. 
Nalbenby.    See  Navenby 
Nanby.    See  Navenby. 


748 


GENERAL  INDEX. 


Nanby,  John,  167,  486,  490. 
Nandj'ke,  William,  222,  382. 
Nanskylly   by   Eoswaltres,    co.  Cornwall, 
386. 

Napton  on  the  Hill,  co.  Warwick,  64,  411. 

Narburgh,  co.  Norfolk,  191. 

Naseby,  John,  8,  81. 

Nasmyowe,  co.  Devon,  331. 

Nasshe,  John,  126,  144,  287. 

,.  ,   ,  Marjory  his  wife,  126. 

Navenby,  Naanby,  Nanby,  Nalbenbv,  co- 
Lincoln,  62,  131,  328. 

Nawby.    See  Newby. 

Nawene,  Nicholas,  434. 

Naworth,  Naward,  co.  Cumberlimcl,  181. 

Nayler,  John,  22,  468,  469. 

 ,   ,  Katharine  his  wife,  469. 

 ,  Eichard,  469. 

^  Stephen,  469. 

 ,  ,  Matilda  his  wife,  469. 

 Thomas,  469. 

Nayngham,  William,  615. 

Kedeham.    See  Needham. 

Ncdeham,  John,  70,  102,  103,  127,  128,  170, 
171,  221,  247,  251,  353,  366,  377,  403, 
408,  525,  r^03,  610,611,  615.  616,  618- 
621,  623,  625-637,  634-636,  638. 

 ,  ,  justice  of  the  Common  Bench, 

227,  229. 

 ,  justice  of  the  King's  Bench, 

258,  264,  344. 
Kedging,  Neddyug  [co.  Suffolk],  65. 
Nedyrsole,  John,  445. 
Needham,  Nedeham,  co.  Suffolk,  93. 

  Market,  324. 

Ncel,  Nele,  John,  76. 

 ,  Richard,  55,  104,  170,  171,  221,  245, 

248,  251,  353,  403,  405,  408,  525,  606, 

610,  618,  G21,  635-638. 
 ,  justice  of  the  Common  Bench, 

200,  258,  315,  517. 
 ,  justice  of  the  King's  Bench, 

176,  227,  229. 

 ,  Thomas,  271,  576. 

Neest,  John,  276. 
Neie.    See  Neel. 

Neleson,  Neylson,  Thomas,  9,  355,  377,  431, 
572. 

Nelmc,  Thomas,  578. 

Ncrochc,  Eacche,   Eaceher,   co.  Somerset, 

forest  of,  85,  205. 
Nesbit,  in  Scotland,  514. 
Nesfeld,  Nessefeld,  John,  263,  286,  287,  318, 

377,  483. 

 ,  Eobcrt,  318. 

Nesse,  Thomas,  152,  210. 
Nest,  John,  231. 
Ncthcrattebcre.    Sec  Adbcer. 
Nethevberc  [co.  Cornwall],  119. 
Nethcrhalle  [in  Bures,  co.  Suffolk],  25. 
Netherhall  in  Waldingficld,  co.  Suffolk,  515, 


Nethersole,  Nethirsole,  John,  389,  428,  463. 
Netherton,  John,  217. 

 ,  Robert,  200. 

Netherwichenden.    See  Wincheudon. 
Nethirsole.    See  Nethersole. 
Netilton,  William,  37. 

  And  see  Nettyltou. 

Netley,  Lcttley,  co.  Southampton,  Thomas, 
abbot  of,  6. 

 ,  John,  .ibbot  of,  504. 

Neto,  Peter,  474. 

Nettlested,  Netlisted,  co.  Kent,  368. 
Nettylton,  William,  3. 

  Atid  see  Netilton. 

Neubotelgrave.    See  Nobottle  Grove. 
Neuburgh.    See  Newbrough  ;  Nev/eburgh. 
Neubury,  John,  605. 

Neuby,  Eobert  de,  parson  of  Marston,  601. 
Neubyggyug.    See  Newbiggin. 
Neucourt,  John,  307. 
Neucote,  co.  Leicester,  517. 
Neuhithe,  526. 
Neuman,  Nicholas,  576. 

  Arid  see  Newman  ;  Ncwcman. 

Neunara.    See  Newuham. 
Neunan,  Geoffrey  de,  105. 
Neunton.    See  Newingtou. 
Neuport,  Eichard,  246. 

 ,  Robert,  381. 

  Atid  see  Newport ;  Newcport. 

Neuss,  Nuce,  in  Germany,  52. 
Neuton.    See  Newton. 

Neuton,  Richard,  chief  justice  of  the  Bench, 
3,  8,  72-74,77,79,  81,  82,  144,  145, 
147,  202,  225,  322,  323,  326,  477. 

  A}id  see  Newton. 

Neve,  John,  380. 

 ,  Roger,  141. 

 ,  Thomas,  380. 

 ,  William,  588. 

Nevell,  Charles,  251. 

Nevendou,  Nevyngtou,  co.  Essex,  258. 

Neville,  Nevile,  Nevylle,  Anne,  lady  of,  362. 

 ,  Edward,  175. 

  lord  of  Bergcvennj^  47,  219, 

285,  351,  352,  4G3,  606,  617,  631. 

 ,  George,  215,  271,  290,  313,  327,  335, 

351,  405,  618,  C32,  633. 
 ,   ,  lord  Latimer,  94,  205-207,  200, 

221,  289,  295,  296. 

 archbishop  of  York  [1465-1476], 

15,  18,  21,  34-36,  40,  42,  112,  114,  117, 
132,  135,  177,  190,  217,  244,  258,  310, 
332,  470,  517,  532,  550,  554,  588,  607, 
608,  610,  611,  615,  616,  621,  624,  625, 
634,  636-638. 

 ch;!UC(.lloL-  of  the  University  of 

Oxford,  62R. 
 ,Htmry,  94,  14G,  205,  207,  209,  289, 

295,  296,  637. 


GENERAL  INDEX. 


749 


Neville,  Henry,  Joan  his  wife,  289,  295,  290. 

 ,  Hugh,  243. 

 ,  Humphrey,  40. 

 ,  John,  243,  572,  575,  625. 

 ,   ,  escheator  of  Nottingham,  70. 

 ,  ,  lord  of  Montagu,  earl  of  North- 
umberland, marquess  of  Montagu,  85, 
91,  102,  103,  132,  169,  170,  174,  1S9, 
190,  199,  200,  221,  239,  245,  2  IS,  251, 
258,  313,  335,  480-488,  510,  009,  010, 
616,  G17,  619-022,  025,  630,  034,  036- 
638. 

 ,  Isabel  his  wife,  313,  335,487, 

488. 

 ,  Ralph,  earl  of  "Westmoreland,  535. 

 ,  Richard,  205-207,  209,  21.5,  295,290. 

 ,   ,  earl  of  Salisbury,  21,  20,  42, 

07,  09,  185,  340,  450,  487,  488,  557. 

 ,   ,  Alice  his  wife,  30,  185,  340, 

450,  507,  550. 

 ,  earl  of  Warwick  and  Salisbury, 

26,  3S,  51,  55,  09,  85,  90,  102,  i03, 
106,  126,  128,  131,  132,  15?,  155,  160. 
106,  109,  170,  177,  190,  206,207,  217- 
220,  242,  244-250,  252,  201,  260,  330, 
332,  455,  483,  487,  488,  .107,  556,  557, 
007-614,  610-031,  030-038. 

 ,   ,  captain  of  Calais,  205,  210,  228. 

 ,  ,  admiral  of  England,  Ireland, 

and  Aquilaine,  233,  235. 

 ,  ,  cliief  justice  of  South  Wales, 

105. 

 ,   ,  chamberlain  of  South  Wales, 

105. 

 ,  chamberlain  of  England,  170, 

262,  314. 

 ,  ,  chamberlain  of  the  E.xchcquer, 

207. 

 ,  ,  grants  to,  132,  137. 

 ,  Anne  his  wife,  153,  207,  330, 

455. 

 ,  ,  Anno  his  daughter,  455,  507. 

 ,  Isabel  his  daughter,  455. 

 Robert,  77,  199,  262,  588,  638. 

 ,  ,  Ellen  his  wife,  588. 

 ,  Thomas,  67,  462,  477,  491,  025. 

 ,  ,  parson  of  Brancepeth,  301. 

 ,  ,  of  Ilolleston,  100,  025. 

 ,  ,  of  South  Levertou,  247,  407, 

625. 

 ,  William,  lord  of  Faucombor{.'p,  carl 

of  Kent,  65. 
Nevland,  Robert,  78. 
Nevyngton.    See  Ncvendon. 
Newark,  co.  Nottingham,  70. 

 ,  Northgate  by,  481. 

 ,  letters  patent  dated  at,  205,  217. 

Ncwbiggin,  Neubyggyng,  Niewbyggyng,  co. 

Cumberland,  90. 

 ,  CO.  Lancaster,  -!50. 

 ,  CO.  Northumberland,  £28,  230. 

 ,  CO.  Westmoreland,  148. 

  [co.  York],  483,  480,  487. 


Neweburgli,  Newborough,  Neuburgh,  John, 
55,  57,  196,  211,  220,247,406,  428, 
573,  013. 

 the  elder,  273,  505. 

 ,  William,  247,  013. 

Newcdyk,  Richard,  80,  308. 

Newehall,  co.  Suffolk,  89. 
!  Newchawe,  co.  Northampton,  184. 

Newcnian,  John,  430,  575. 

 ,   ,  the  elder,  578. 

 ,  ,  the  younger,  578. 

 ,  Nicholas,  149. 

 William,  320. 

  And  see  ^ewmnn  ;  Neuman. 

Newenham,  William,  349,  405,  024. 

Newent,  Thomas,  28. 

Newenton,  Geoffrey  dc,  92. 

Neweport,  John,  rector  of  Stanford  Uiver.s, 
307. 

 ,  Richard,  parcon  of  Ilovekirko,  272. 

 ,  Robert,  585. 

Neweport,  William,  430. 

  ylwf/ «ee  Newport;  Ncuport. 

Ncwerk,  Henry,  303. 

New  Forest,  co.  Southampton,  52,  88. 

  (in  Kirkbv  Havcnsworth),  co.  York, 

483,  480,  487. 
Newington,  Neunton,  co.  Oxford,  500. 
Newkerkyn,  Evcr.ird  van,  52. 
Newland,  NcM'clond,  co.  Gloucester,  481. 
Newlands,  co.  Cumberland,  13. 
Newman,  ISenedict,  8,  81. 

  And  see  Neweman  ;  Neuman. 

Newmarket,  co.  Cambridge,  510. 

Newnam.    See  Nunchaui. 

Newnham,  Newenham,  co.  Bedford,  John, 

prior  of,  499. 

 CO.  Northampton,  542. 

 CO.  Southampton,  8. 

 ,  Neutiam  [co.  Kent],  105. 

 by  Cliittlehamholt,  co.  Devon,  187. 

  Little,  CO.  Warwick,  135. 

Newport,  Neuport,  co.  Essex,  358. 

 ,  hospital  of  St.  Mary  and  St.  Leonard, 

358. 

 ,  CO.  Salop,  133,  500. 

 ,  Isle  of  Wight,  CO.  Southampton,  571. 

  Pngncll,  CO.  Buckingham,  345,  457, 

529,  504. 
Newport,  John,  76,  82,  280. 

  A  nd  see  Neweport ;  Ncuport. 

Newsholme,  Nowsom,  in  Craven,  co.  York 

307. 

Ncwstead  in  Sherwood,  co.  Nottingham, 
priory  of,  35. 

 ,  John  Dorham,  prior  of,  35. 

 ,  Thomas  Gounthorpe,  prior  of,  35. 

Ncwtimber,  Nytymbre,  co.  Sussex,  192. 
Newton,  Xeuton,  co.  Kent,  521. 
 ,  CO.  Lancaster,  32,  137. 


750  GENERAL 

Newton,  co.  Leicester,  27. 

 ,  CO.  Lincoln,  297. 

 ,  CO.  York,  82,  209,  483,  487. 

 Abbot,  CO.  Devon,  8. 

  Bushell,  CO.  Devon,  37,  60. 

 Feirers,  co.  Dovon,  33L 

  Poppleford,  CO.  Devon,  80,  280,  358, 

37G. 

  Harecouit,  co.  Leicester,  517. 

 Flotman,  co.  Norfolk,  191. 

  Purcell,  CO.  Oxford,  500. 

 St.  Loe,  Neuton  Seyntlo,  co.  Somerset, 

li9. 

 Toney,  Newetony,  co.  Wilts,  10. 

Newton,  Newetou,  Neuton,  John,  280,  281, 

427,  565. 

 ,  Maurice,  18,  52,  178. 

 Eicliard,  216,  577. 

  And  see  Neuton. 

Newynson,  Joliu,  215,  277. 

 ,  Roger,  215. 

 ,  Thomas,  214,  277. 

Newbold  on  Avon,   Newbold  Paunton,  co. 

Warwick,  1.S5. 
Newborough.    ^ee  Ncweburgh, 
Newbrough,  Neuburgh,  co.  Northumberland, 

523. 

Newbury,  Nowebury,  co.  Berks,  144,  287, 
488. 

Newby,  Nuby  of  the  Stones,''co.  Westmore- 
land, 442. 

 ,  Nawby,  co.  Cumberland,  214,  215, 

277. 

Newcastle-on-Tyne,  18,  142,  197,  206,  290, 

333,  347,  438,  493,  605. 

 ,  mayor  of.    See  Carlele. 

 ,  subsidy  and  ulaage  of  cloth  in,  333, 

347. 

 ,  charters  dated  at,  370,  398. 

 ,  port  of,  106,  216,  230,  240,  263,  268, 

330,  412,  461,  493,  495,  545,  548,  554, 

568,  592. 
Ncwcliirche,  Everard,  52. 
Newchurch,  Newchirche,  co.  Kent,  283,  546, 

547. 

 ,  hundred  of,  300. 

Newdegate,  John,  252. 

Newebald,  Master  Robert,   prebendary  of 

Chiswick,  176. 
Niccoll,  John,  295. 

  And  see  Nicoll. 

Niche,  Nyche,  Thomas,  325,  385,  432. 
Nicholas,  Nycliolas,  Thomas,  432,  445. 

 ,  Ralph,  son  of,  123. 

 R.,  son  of,  561. 

Nicholasson,  Arnald,  122. ' 
Nicholson,  Edward,  214,  277. 

 ,  GcoSrey,  289. 

 ,  Thomas,  214,  277. 

 ,  William,  148. 

Nicolasson,  William,  37. 


INDEX. 

Nicole,  Master  John,  499. 
Nicoll,  James,  354. 

 ,  John,  25,  447. 

  And  see  Niccoll. 

Nicott,  John,  493. 

Nightez,  William,  406. 

Noble,  Vincenot  le,  201,  217,  221, 

 ,  Vincent  le,  201,  213,  217,  221 . 

Nobottle  Grove,  Neubotelgrave,  co.  North- 
hampton, hundred  of,  531. 
Noke,  John,  255. 

Nomansland  [co.  Cambridge],  170. 

Nonant,  Hugh  de,  bishop  of  Coventry  [II88- 

1198],  426. 
Nonmonkton.    See  Nun  Monkton. 
Nonue  Eton.    See  Nuneaton. 
Nony.    See  Nunney. 
Norburgh,  Henry,  411. 

 William,  411. 

Norbury,  Henry,  500. 

 ,  John,  114,  380. 

Nordon,  Richard,  4. 
Noreys.    See  Norreys. 

Norfolk,  county  of,  19,  30,  37,  54,  56,  61,  87, 
88,  90,  98,  151,  159,  169,  170,  184,  191, 
195,  197,  199,  218,  221,  232,  242,  245, 
247,  249,  250,  289,  329,  332,  348,  352, 
353,  389,  406,  408,  430,  462,  490-492, 
496,  513,  525,  563. 

 ,   ,  sherifif  of,  20,  30,  56,  159,  197, 

242,  252,  352,  397,  406,  402,  490,  492, 
525. 

  ^jid  iee  Hevenyngham  ;  Ree. 

 ,  escheator  in,  98,  186,  221,  227, 

298,  373,  400,  470,  481. 
    And  sec  Pelly  ;  Grey  ;  Clere; 

Pestell. 

  ,   ,  outlawries  in,  3,  8,  10,  16,  73, 

78,  143,  144,  146,  149,  223-226,  253, 
255,  256,  322,  323,  326,  327,  381-383, 
385,  435,  436,  498,  500,  501,  504,  570, 
577,  579,  582. 

 ,  ,  subsidy  and  ulnage  of  cloth  in, 

829,  348,  478. 

 ,   ,  commissions  of  the  peace  in, 

622. 

 ,  duke,  duchess  of.    See  Mowbray. 

Norham,  John,  148. 

 ,  ,  rector  of  Luddenham,  45. 

Norman,  John,  334. 

Normandy,  Normans,  297,  404,  513,  529, 
536. 

Normanton,  co.  Leicester,  27,  517. 

Normanvile,  Thomas,  199. 

Norreys,  Nores,  Norys,  James,  218,  515. 

 ,  John,  5,  144,  203,  242,  385. 

 ,  ,  Margaret  his  wife,  203. 

 ,  Robert,  204. 

 ,  Robert  le,  123. 

 ,  William,  178,   195,  196,  241,  242, 

349,  352,  374,  400,  488,  008. 


GENERAL  INDEX. 


751 


Norreys,  William,  keepei-    of  the   rolls  of 

Chancery  iu  Irelantl,  04. 
Norroy  king  of  arms,  Thomas,  197. 

  A7id  see  Hohue. 

Northam,  co.  Devon,  4.57,  529. 
Northampton,  2,  5,  71,  84,  2.32,  2.54,  327, 

346,  372,  433,  473,  482,  540,  5G2,  577, 

590. 

 mayor  of,  194,  292,  416. 

 ,  letters  patent  dated  at,  490,  631. 

 ,  battle  of,  43,  585. 

 ,  charter  dated  at,  63,  478. 

 ,  archdeacon  of.    See  lliidynge. 

 ,  statute  of,  28. 

 ,  abbey  of  St.  James  by,  278,  283,  292, 

594. 

 ,  convent  of,  278,  590. 

 ,  William  Yon,  abbot  of,  278. 

 ,  John    Grauntwell,   abbit  of, 

283,  292,  590. 

 ,  ,  John  Wykely,  abbot  of,  594. 

 ,  priory  of  St.  Andrew,  194,  195,  358, 

415. 

 ,   convent  of,  402. 

 ,  ,  William  Ilamond,  prior  of,  19  1, 

403. 

 ,  ,  Dan  Thomas  Sudbury,  prior  of, 

415,  418. 

 .county  of,  106,  127,  148,  170,  195, 

196,  199,  218,  232,  267,  285,  329,  318, 
349,  352,  381,  405,  421,  430,  441,  462, 
492,  493,  496,  540,  562,  GOl. 

 ,  sheriff  of,  92,  285,  340,  405, 

492,  493,  525,  570,  571. 

 ,   And  see  Hastyuges. 

 escheator  in,  35,  9S,  153,  186, 

205,  241,  271,  278,  292,  330,  332,  3.59, 

400,  415,  475,  597. 
  And  see  Chambre  ;  rainier  ; 

Pcmberton  ;  Wake. 
 ,  outlawries  in,  4,  79,  80,  141, 

254,  257,  384,  386,  387,  435,  503,  504. 
 subsidy  and  ulnage  of  cloth  in, 

329,  348,  478. 
 ,  commissions  of  the  peace  in, 

623. 

Northcourte  in  Combo  Bissct,  co.  Wilts,  32, 
33. 

North  End,  co.  Warwick,  64,  411. 
Northewode,  co.  Southampton,  94. 
Northfleet,  co.  Kent,  435,  463. 
Northgrove,  co.  Worcester,  304. 
Northill,  CO.  Cornwall,  457,  529. 
Northland,  John,  263. 

North  Lew,  Nortlilieu,  co.  Devon,  27,  32, 

137,  473. 
Northlic.    See  Leigh. 
Northmoscham.    See  Muskham,  Norlli. 
Northpcdirton.    .See  Petbcrton. 
Northtauton.    See  Tawton,  North. 


Nortluinil)erlaud,  county  of,  219,  251,  290, 

317,  329,  333,  317,  350,  407,  430,  438, 

463,  490,  545,  605. 
 ,   ,sherilf  of,  197,  251,  350,  407, 

438,  463,  490. 
  And  sec   Planers ;    Tercy ; 

Lumlcy. 

 ,  ,  subsidy  and  ulnage  of  cloth  in, 

329,  333,  347. 
 ,  ,  commissions  of  the  peace  in, 

624. 

 ,  ,  carl  of.    See  Perc}-;  Neville. 

Northwieh,  Norwyche,  co.  Chester,  32,  137. 
Northwold,  CO.  Norfolk,  322. 
Nortliwude,  Stephen  de,  561. 

 ,  Roger  his  son,  561. 

Norton,  co.  Northampton,  92,  272. 

  lioauchamp,  co.  .Somerset,  305. 

  Daune,  co.  Devon,  457,  529. 

 King's,  Kyngcsnnrton,  co.  Worcester, 

530. 

Norton,  John,  79,  383,  637. 
 ,  Itichard,  302. 

 ,  justice  of  the  Conmion  Bench, 

58. 

 ,  Thomas,  164,  629. 

 ,  William,  3,  53,  226,  325,  391. 

Norwall,  co.  York,  80. 

Norwich,  4,  21,  54,92,  93,  113,  144,  149,161, 
184,  197,  225,  226,  253,  251,  272, 
223,  329,  342,  348,  353,  357,  384,  387, 
413,  432,  434,  491,  496,  500,  536,  549, 
576,  579,  586,  588,  591,  599. 

 ,  mayor  of.    .S'cc  Aubr}- ;  Best. 

 ,  subsidy  and  ulnage  of  cloth  in,  329, 

348. 

 outlawries  in,  80,  144,  149,  253,  255, 

323,  384,  434,  576,  577,  579. 

 ,  mint  at,  149. 

 ,  charters  dated  at,  460,  539. 

 .diocese  of,  91,  107,  161,  186,  230, 

267,  307,  342,  347,  410,  418,  467,  470, 

475,  537,  582,  586,  589. 
 ,  bishopric  of,  126,  344,  357,  362,  366, 

373. 

 bii^hop  of.    Sec  le  IFcrt;  Goldwcll; 

Losinga  ;  Ulundeville  ;  Salmon  ;  link  ; 

Spencer  ;  Grey  ;  Middleton. 
 ,  Holy  Trinity,  prior  and  convent  of, 

341,  459. 

 ,  ,  Thomas,  prior  of,  459. 

 ,   ,  William,  prior  of,  460. 

 ,  archdeaconry  of,  39. 

 archdeacon  of.    See  Moreton. 

Norwich,  William,  73,  226,  384. 
Norwiche,  Robert,  487. 
Norwode,  William,  488. 
Norwych.    See  Northwich. 
Islorys,  Walter  4. 

  And  see  Norroys. 

Noryson,  John,  326. 
Notelegli  [co.  Devon],  171. 


752 


GENERAL  INDEX. 


Notewill.    See  Nutwell. 
Notley,  White,  co.  Essex,  321. 
Ifotte,  Henry,  52. 

 ,  John,  208. 

Nottekyn,  Richard,  53. 

 ,  William,  the  elder,  .53. 

 ,  ,  the  3-ounger,  53. 

Nottinfr,  Knottyiigberaes,  co.  Middlesex, 
560. 

Nottin»haui,  11,  231,  244,  310,  342,  348,  441, 
462,  463,  470,  477,  479,  482,  488,  492, 
496,  501,  535,  578,  586. 

 ,  charters  dated  at,  63,  370. 

 ,  letters  patent  dated  at,  206,  408,  410, 

426,  440,  441,  451,  462,  630. 

 ,  outlawries  in,  501,  578. 

 ,  subsidy  and  ulnage  of  cloth  in,  348. 

 ,  county  of,  55,  70,  130,  195,  199,  218, 

233,  243,  247,  251,  284,  285,  329,  348, 
350,  403,  407,  428,  430,  441,  442,  457, 
462,  482,  492,  496,  511,  513,  529, 
535. 

 ,  ,  sherifif  of,  130,  157,  243,  244, 

251,  284,  350,  407,  492,  525. 
  And    see     Leek ;  Monte 

Gomeri ;  Strelley  ;  Curson. 

 ,   ,  escheator  in,  35,  271,  332,  475. 

 ,   And  see  Neville. 

 ,  outlawries  in,  3,  142,  144,  148, 

321,  381,  385,  431,  437,  503,  576. 
 ,  subsidy  and  ulnage  of  cloth  in, 

329,  348,  478. 

 ,  ,  justices  of  the  peace  in,  477. 

 ,   ,  con.'unssions  of  the  peace  in, 

G24. 

Notyngham,  William,  54,  58,  81,  127,  132, 
198,  251,  288,  299-302,  407,  454,  553, 
573,  612-614,  616,  625,  629,  635,636. 

Nowebury.    See  Newbury. 

Nowcrs,  John,  226,  374,  375. 

 ,  Richard,  374,  375,  406. 

NowEom.    Sec  Newsholme. 

Nubcry.    See  Newbury. 

Nuberv,  Walter,  abbot  of  St.  Augustine's  by 

"Bristol,  397. 
Nuburgh,  John,  219. 
Nuby.    See  Newby. 
Nuce.    See  Neuss. 
Nacelles,  lord  of.    See  Wydoville. 
Nugent,  Christopher,  592. 

 ,  Richard,  baron  of  Delvyn,  193. 

Niincaton,  Nnneton,  Nonne  Eton,  co.  War- 
wick, 61,  411,  440. 
Nuneham,  Newnam,  co.  Oxford,  584. 
Nungell,  William,  404. 
Nun  Monkton,  Nonnionkton,  co.  York,  146. 
Nunue,  Henry,  143. 
NuM'.-.oy,  Nony,  co.  Somerset,  401. 
Nnnnv,  Nunncy,  Alice,  abbess  of  Godstow, 

"  278. 

 John,  6,  7,  407. 

Nun's  Hampton.    See  Miuchiuhampton. 


Nunswapham.    Sec  SwafEham  Bulbeck. 

Nuport,  George,  199. 

Nuselles,  lord  of.    See  Wydeville. 

Nutes,  CO.  Southampton,  66. 

Nuthill,  CO.  York,  457,  529. 

Nuton,  Maurice,  60. 

Nuton  Busshell.    See  Newton  Bushell. 

Nutwell,  Notewill,  Nuttewyll,  co.  Devon,  60, 

61,  235. 
Nyanser,  Thomas,  456. 
Nyche.    See  Niche. 
Nycholas.    See  Nicholas. 
Nykke,  William,  299. 

Nyman,  Master  John,  chaplain  of  Chichester 

cathedral,  413. 
Nymbery,  Thomas,  610. 
Nytymbre.    See  Ncwtimber. 


0. 

Oakham,  Okeham,  Wokeham,  co.  Rutland, 

79,  212,  213,  286,  290. 
Oakingtou,  Hokyngton,  co.  Cambridge,  508. 
Oakley,  Ocle,  Okelde,  co.  Essex,  431,  439. 

 ,  Great,  91. 

Obray,  William,  57. 

Obryth,  Obrych,  John,  497,  526,  572. 

Occleve,  co.  Bedford,  hospital  of  St.  John 

Baptist,  John  Burgh,  warden  of,  244, 

375. 

 ,  John  Seymour,  warden  of,  375. 

Ochoa,  John,  288. 

Ookendon,  North,  Wokindone  Setfonteyncs, 

CO.  Essex,  465. 

 ,  South,  Southwokyndon,  345. 

 Bishop.    See  Cranham. 

Ocle.    See  Acle  ;  Oakley. 
Ocle  Lyre,  co.  Hereford,  582. 
Oddyston.    See  Odstone. 
Odeham,  John,  385. 

 ,  ,  Margaret  his  wife,  384. 

 ,  William,  431. 

Odeland,  Odeloud,  John,  127,  128  187. 

Odestoke.    See  Woodstock. 

Odierno.    See  Audierne. 

Odiham,  co.  Southampton,  343,  567. 

Odstone,  Ordeston,  in  Ashbury,  co.  Berks, 

578,  589. 

 ,  Oddyston,  co.  Leicester,  81,  145. 

Oestampe,  lord  of.    See  Brugges. 
Offord,  CO.  Warwick,  49,  331. 
Ogan,  Joan,  327. 
 ,  John,  327. 

Ogbourne,  Okeburn,  co.  Wilts,  priory  of,  42, 
46,  63,  461,  585. 


GENERAL  INDEX. 


753 


Oghtrede.    See  Ughtred. 
Ogle,  Eichard,  197. 

 ,  Robert,  lord  of  Ogle  and  Thursby, 

83,  171,  350,  624. 

 ,  ,  Isabel  his  wife,  83. 

Okeburn.    See  Ogbourne. 

Okeham.    See  Oakham. 

Okehampton,  co.  Devon,  8,  22,  23,  176,  181, 
189,  280,  457,  529. 

 ,  hundred  of,  22,  189,  280,  457,  529. 

Okehurst,  John,  14. 

 ,  ,  Cecily  his  wife,  14. 

 ,  William,  14. 

Okelde.    See  Oakley. 

Okeley,  co.  Somerset,  32,  33. 

Okeley,  Alexander,  251. 

Oker,  Philip,  219. 

Okey,  Robert,  285. 

Okham.    See  Oakham. 

Okynton.    See  Oxenton. 

Okys,  Thomas,  79. 

Oldbury,  co.  Gloucester,  580. 

Oldebury,  Richard,  102. 

Oldeclymmys,  co.  Cornwall,  591. 

Oldefeld,  Hugh,  155. 

Oldemau,  John,  322. 

Old  Ford,  Okleforde,  co.  Middlesex,  485. 

Oldham,  Robert,  325. 

Oldlawitta,  co.  Cornwall,  457,  529. 

Oldlond,  CO.  Cornwall,  389. 

Oldum,  Robert,  295. 

Olgrave.    See  Owlegreve. 

Oliver,  Olyver,  Thomas,  abbot  of  Buckland, 
171,  251,  4U3,  404,  408. 

 ,  William,  149. 

  And  see  (3l3'ver. 

OUerton,  Allerton,  in  Shirwode,  co.  Notting- 
ham, 148. 

Olney,  co.  Buckingham,  322,  344,  420. 

Olney,  Joan,  73. 

Olveston,  co.  Gloucester,  78,  320,  380. 
Olyegh,  Thomas,  524. 
Olyve,  Edmund,  149. 

 ,   ,  Margaret  his  wife,  149. 

Olyver,  John,  171,  55.<?. 

 ,  Thomas,  149,  219,429. 

  And  see  Oliver. 

Ombersley,  Ambresley,  co.  Worcester,  C7. 

Omorywyd,  AVilliam,  15. 

Ougar,  CO.  Essex,  hundred  of,  561. 

 ,  High,  Highonger,  co.  Essex,  33,  81, 

234,  263,  554. 
Ongar  Park,  Ongrepark,  co.  Essex,  393. 
Onhand,  Thomas,  79. 
Onlepe.    See  Wanlip. 
Onley,  co.  Northampton,  327. 
Onley,  Robert,  316. 

Oppesham,  Opsame  (?  Topsham),  co.  Devon, 

280,  303,  457,  529. 
Orailby,  John,  193. 

y  96186, 


Orby,  Orreby,  co.  Lincoln,  508. 
Orchard,  John,  29,  101,  105,  127,  168,  219, 
377,  407,  427,  618. 

Ordeston.    See  Odstone. 

Ordnance,  25,  112,  127,  163,  338,  362,  365, 

369,  372,  379,  398,  412,  462,  474,  479, 

492,  494,  549. 
Ordsall,  Orteshall,  co.  Nottingham,  577. 
Orell,  Oryll,  George,  94,  114,  201. 

 ,  William,  410,  479. 

Orford  [co.  Suffolk],  ship  called  la  Petyr  of, 

526. 

Orgrave.   See  Owlegreve. 
Orleigb,  Orlay  [co.  Devon],  29,  403. 
Orleston,  Orlaston,  co.  Kent,  283,  546. 
Ormesby,  Arthur,  621,  632. 
Ormond,  John,  439. 

 ,  Thomas,  knight,  29,  .332. 

 ,   ,  Anne  his  wife,  29. 

 ,   ,  esquire,  277,  332,  426. 

 ,   ,  Anne  his  wife,  332. 

  And  see  Rutler. 

Orreby.    See  Orby. 

Orston,  CO.  Nottingham,  17,  47,  125,  294. 

Orston,  Thomas,  86,  407. 

Orteshall.    See  Ordsall. 

Orton,  Overton,  co.  Leicester,  145. 

Orwell,  493,  495. 

 ,  port  of,  318,  429. 

Oryll.    See  Orell. 

Osbarne,  Osberne,  Osburn,  John,  305. 

 ,  Richard,  194. 

 ,  Robert,  226. 

 ,  Thomas,  194,  254,  296. 

Osclyffe,  John,  291. 

 ,  Robert,  291. 

Oselveston.    See  Owston. 
Oseney,  co.  Oxford,  93,  244. 

 abbey  of,  342,  359. 

 abbot  and  convent  of,  93,  244,  342. 

 ,  abbot  of,  241. 

 ,  John,  abbot  of,  2,  224,  342,  626. 

 John  Walton,  abbot  of,  82,  335. 

 Richard  Leycestre,  abbot  of,  342 

359. 

Osilston.    See  Ossulstone. 
Osleston,  co.  Salop,  192. 
Osmond,  John,  164. 

 ,   ,  Agnes  his  wife,  164. 

 Robert,  504. 

 ,  Thomas,  164. 

Osmondes  in  Faruham,  co.  Dorset,  534. 
Osmondeston,  John,  326. 
Ospringe,  Osprenge,  co.  Kent,  401. 
 ,  hospital  of  St.  Mary,  John  Pem- 

berton,  warden  of,  228,  274. 
 ,  ,  Robert  Darell,  warden  of,  228, 

363. 

 ,  ,  Stephen  Close,  warden  of,  363, 

418, 

3  B 


754 


GENERAL  INDEX. 


Ospringe,  hospital  of    St.    Mary,  Thomas 

Asshby,  wardeu  of,  418. 
Ossulstone,  Osilston,  co.  Middlesex,  178. 
Osteler,  Ostyller,  Henry,  573. 

 ,  William,  501. 

Oswald,  Joan,  44. 

Ote,  John,  366. 

Otesham,  Stephen,  404. 

Otery,  John,  abbot  of  Dunkeswell,  81. 

Otter,  Ottir,  Ottre,  Otour,  John,  201,  218, 

291,  412. 

 Eobert,  218,  292. 

 ,  Thomas,  215,  218. 

Otterden,  Ottrinden,  co.  Kent,  447. 

Ottery  St.  Mary,  co.  Devon,  60,  61. 

Ottwey,  Ottewey,  Henry,  38,  386. 

Ottrinden.    See  Otterden. 

Ottys,  Eichard,  353. 

Ouchethorpe.    See  Howthorpe. 

Oudeby,  Walter,  provost  of  Cotterstock,  119. 

Ougle.    See  Ogle. 

Ougle,  Thomas,  309. 

Oughterby,  Hughterby,  co.  Cumberland,  214, 
277. 

Oughtre,  William,  483. 
Oughtrith.    See  Ughtred. 
Oulham,  John,  406. 

Oundle,  Undalle,  co.  Northampton,  6,  8,  81, 

170,  384,  418. 
Ourey,  William,  313. 
Ouse  river,  co.  York,  251,  428,  572. 
Ouselande,  co.  Nottingham,  310,  488. 
Ousteby,  Thomas,  chaplain  of  Lamana,  396, 

479. 

Ouston,  John,  157,  158. 

Outethorn.    See  Owthorne. 

Outlawry,  1-12,  16,  20,  21,  36-38,  44,  47 
49-52,  72-82,  91,  93,  94,  99,  115,  119' 
122,  141-149,  164,  173,  178,  183,  188, 
189,  202-204,  223-228,  253-257,  263, 
282,  293,  320-327,  331,  357,  362,  364, 
367,  374,  380-387,  389,  395,  397,  400, 
401,  410,  420,  431-437,  443,  448,  452, 
473,  475-477,  482,  498-504,  560,  564, 
575-582,  588,  589,  599,  602,  603. 

Outwell,  Owtwell  [co.  Norfolk],  3,  169,  170, 
322. 

Ovedale.    See  Uvedale. 
Overattebere.    See  Adbeer. 
Overay,  Ovray,  Thomas,  299. 

 ,  William,  100,  171,  217,  268. 

Overdoudeswell.    See  Dowdeswell. 
Overhalle  [in  Bures,  co.  Suffolk],  25. 
Overithwartwere,  111. 
Overmerssh,  co.  Chester,  32,  137. 
Oversodyngton.    See  Siddiugton. 
Overstone,  co.  Northampton,  7. 
Overton,  co.  Leicester,  81. 

 ,00.  Southampton,  571. 

  And  see  OrtoD. 

')verton,  Robert,  503. 


Overten,  William,  8,  147,  203. 
Overtyngton.    See  Toynton. 
Ovisham  Hall.    See  Housham  Hall. 
Ovray.    See  Overay. 
Owede,  Richard,  256. 
Owen,  Geofifrey,  203. 

 ,  Jasper,  earl  of  Pembroke,  283,  289. 

 ,  John,  283. 

Owlegreve,  Owelegre,  Olgrave,  Orgrave, 
Thomas,  mayor  of  London,  98,  103, 
107,  120. 

Owston,  Oselveston,  co.  Leicester,  monastery 
of,  23,  39. 

 ,  William  Kylpesham,  abbot  of,  23. 

 ,  Robert  Kirkeby,  abbot  of,  23,  36. 

 ,  CO.  Lincoln,  157. 

Owthorne,  Outethorn,  co.  York,  585, 
Oxbrigge,  Oxenbrigge,  Elizabeth,  56. 

 .,  Robert,  196,  199,  463,  491,  524. 

 ,  Thomas,  56. 

 ,  ,  escheator  of  Bedford  and  Buck- 
ingham, 161,  205. 

 ,  William,  56. 

Oxenden,  Little,  co.  Northampton,  503. 

Oxeney.    See  Oxney. 

Oxenham,  Henry,  403. 

Oxenton,  Okynton,  co.  Gloucester,  66,  67. 

Oxford,  8,  14,  28,  42,  77,  82,  87,  93,  96,  143, 
232,  242,  244,  248,  326,  375,  382,  451, 
496,  500,  516,  536,  .544,  580. 

 ,  mayor  of,  287. 

  And  see  Dagvile  ;  Dobbus. 

 ,  charters  dated  at,  17,  63. 

 ,  letters  patent  dated  at,  626. 

 commissions  of  the  peace  in,  626. 

 ,  University  of,  chancellor  of.  See 

Neville  ;  Chaundeler. 

 ,  Magdalen    college,    president  and 

scholars  of,  63,  64,  557. 

 , ^William  Tyberd,  president  of, 

557. 

 ,  Lincoln  college,  rectors  and  fellows 

of,  519. 

 hospital  of  St.  John  without  the  east 

gate  of,  63,  64. 

 ,  Augustinian  friars  of,  438. 

 ,  weavers  and  fullers  of,  307. 

 ,  earl  of.    See  de  Vcre. 

 ,  county  of,  25,  65,  85,  90,  91,  101, 

159,  195,  218,  222,  232,  248,  249,  285. 
287,  289,  329,  344,  347,  350,  375,  406, 
430,  452,  462,  492,  496,  500,  524, 
562. 

 ,   ,  sheriff  of,  93,  118,  232,  243, 

244,  285,  287,  289,  350,  406,  492,  524, 
565. 

 ,   And  see  Elmerugge  ;  Wyke- 

ham ;  Howard. 

 ,  ,  escheator  in,   123,   206,  241, 

278,  330,  332,  359,  442,  472. 

 ,   A7id  see  Fowler;  Hyde. 


GENERAL  INDEX. 


755 


Oxford,  county  of,  outlawries  in,  1,  7,  9,  73, 
74,  77-79,  82,  143,  228,  224,  320,  326, 
381,  382,  420,  431,  435,  437,  498, 
500. 

 ,  ,  subsidy  and  ulnage  of  cloth  in, 

238,  329,  347,  478,  482. 
 ,   ,  commissions  of  the  peace  in, 

625. 

Oxholme.    See  Axholme. 

Oxlinch,  Oxlenge,  co.  Gloucester,  432. 

Oxney,  Oxeney,  co.  Kent,  hundred  of,  301. 

Oxynbrygge.    See  Oxbrygge. 

Oye  by  Calais,  19,  42,  178,  451,  555. 

Oystermouth,  co.  Glamorgan,  163. 


P 

Pacche,  John,  313. 
Pachet,  Henry,  74. 

Packington,  Pakyngton  Priour,  co.  Warwick, 

50,  331,  604. 
Pacok,  James,  215. 
 ,  Richard,  210. 

Paddebroke    [in    Collumpton],  co.  Devon, 

156,  174. 
Paddokthorpc,  co.  York,  47. 
Paddokwere,  Padokkeswere  [co.  Cambridge], 

170. 

Padley,  William,  381. 
Padworth,  co.  Berks,  230, 
Pagans,  189. 
Page,  John,  72,  610. 

  Richard,   339,  427,  463-465,  496, 

523,  536,  544. 

   ,  the  king's  solicitor,  180. 

 ,  Robert,  502. 

 William,  225. 

Paglesham,  Pakelesham,  co.  Essex,  373. 
Pagot,  John,  386. 

 ,  ,  Margaret  his  wife,  386. 

Paimpol,  Penpoull  (iu  Cotes  du  Nord),  in 
Brittany,  474. 

Painswick,  Payneswyk,  co.  Gloucester,  305. 

Pakefeld,  Thomas,  abbot  of  St.  Beuet,  Hulme, 
227,  228,  293. 

Pakenham  (?  Pavenham),  co.  Bedford,  322. 

Pakenham,  Heury,  405. 

 ,  Hugh,  43. 

 John,  569. 

Pakke,  Philip,  149. 

Pakker,  Thomas,  141. 

 Joan  his  wife,  141. 

Pakyngton,  Thomas,  606. 

Palfreyman,  William,  384,  431. 


Pallet,  Master  Thomas,  confessor  of  the 
household,  440. 

 ,  ,  prebendary  of  Windsor,  440. 

 ,   ,  parson  of  Borley,  398. 

Palling,  CO.  Norfolk,  191. 
Palmer,  Giles,  77. 

 ,  John,  404,  428,  436,  473. 

 ,  the  elder,  501. 

 ,  the  younger,  501. 

 ,  Richard,  214,  473. 

 ,  Robert,  612. 

 ,  ,  escheator  of  Northampton  and 

Rutland,  358. 
 ,  Thomas,  43,  78,  199,  263,  322,  405, 

619. 

 ,  parson  of  Great  Rycote,  399. 

 ,  William,  627. 

Palmes,  William,  55. 
Pancok,  William,  234. 
Panell,  John,  44,  251. 
Panery,  John,  73. 
Panfield,  co.  Essex,  376. 

 priory  of,  240,  376. 

Panne,  John,  472. 
Panyote,  John,  318. 
Papcastle,  co.  Cumberland,  137. 
Pape,  John,  6. 
 Richard,  260. 

Papinholt  in  Bere  forest,  co.  Southampton, 
97. 

Pappe,  Mynyn  Enault  dc  la,  201,  217,  221. 
Papworth  Everard,  Pappe wortheverard,  co. 

Cambridge,  174,  332. 
Paraunt,  John,  271. 
Parchemeuer,  William,  482. 
Pardon,  William,  224. 
Pardoner,  Geoflrey,  75. 
Parham,  Perham,  co.  Suffolk,  110. 
Paris,  594. 

Parke  [in  Egloshayle],  co.  Cornwall,  467. 
Parke,  John,  149. 

 ,  Richard,  40. 

 ,  William,  149. 

Parker,  Edmund,  50,  331. 
 Giles,  53. 

 John,  50,  72,  271,  291,  331,  516,604. 

 Richard,  431. 

 Robert,  224,  363,  511. 

 ,  Thomas,  34,  50,  331. 

 ,  William,  308,  355,  374,  385,  483, 

525,  575,  580. 

Parliament,  52,  63,  96,  131,  238,  239,  330, 
338,  390,  402,  411,  416,  424,  426,  428, 
441,  443,  445,  455,  470,  488,  491,  511, 
594. 

  And  see  Westminster  ;  Reading. 

 ,  speaker  of,  265,  281,  452. 

 clerk  of.    See  Gunthorpe ;  Hyde. 

Parmenter,  John,  321. 

3  B  2 


756 


GENERAL  INDEX. 


Parmer,  co.  Buckingham,  309. 
Parot,  John,  2. 

Parr,  Parre,  Gilbert,  20,  419,  564. 

 ,  John,  45,  106,  176,  264,  287,  288, 

334,  417,  423,  439,  440,  490,  634. 

 ,  Thomas,  106,  177. 

 ,  William,  45,  106,  177,  264,  288,  334, 

348-350,  423,  426,  490,  504,  531,  542, 

568,  583,  606,  610,^635. 
 ,   ,  sheriff  of  Cumberland,  341, 

367. 

 ,  ,  sheriff  of  Westmoreland,  532. 

 ,  ,  lieutenant  of  the  west  march  of 

Scotland,  209. 

 ,  ,  Elizabeth  his  wife,  542. 

 ,  ,  Joan  his  wife,  106,  177,  568. 

Parson,  William,  225. 
Partnall.    See  Pertenhall. 
Partney,  co.  Lincoln,  508. 
Partrichetaker,  John,  140. 
Parwich,  Perwych,  co.  Derby,  440. 
Parys,  John,  vicar  of  Broad  Hiutou,  146. 

 ,  Thomas,  316. 

Pasco  we,  John,  1. 

 Martin,  1. 

Paslowe,  Alice,  96. 

Passefeld  Chevers   [in  Ongar],  co.  Essex, 
515. 

Passelowe,  Alice,  96. 

Passemer,  Eichard,  168,  231,  306, 

Passhcote.    See  Patchcott. 

Passhe,  Thomas,  278. 

Paston,  John,  esquire,  245,  247,  249. 

 ,   ,  knight,  169,  245,247,  249,250, 

622. 

 ,  William,  169,  406,  523,  622. 

Patchcott,  Passhcote,  co.  Devon,  36, 

Paten,  Richard,  42. 

Patenson,  John,  216. 

Paternoster  Lane,  co.  Middlesex,  111. 

Paterych,  John,  3. 

Paton,  Ralph,  542. 

Patricksbourn,  Patrikesborne,  co,  Kent,  41, 
183. 

Patryk,  Richsird,  433. 

 ,  William,  601. 

Patrykdale.    See  Patterdale. 
Pattebroke,  co.  Devon,  156,  174. 
Patterdale,  Patrykdale,  co.  Westmoreland, 
96. 

Patton,  CO.  Westmoreland,  106,  177. 
Patyn,  Richard,  412,  463,  470,  513. 
Paul  Holme  [co.  York],  199. 
Paul  IL  pope,  179,  278. 

Paulet,  PawL4et,  Poulet,  John,  56,  100,  130, 

246.  495,  629. 

 ,   ,  Eleanor  his  wife,  130. 

 ,   ,  William,  220,  350,  406,  533, 

628. 

Pault,  Gilmyn,  558. 
Pauncefotc,  Walter,  296. 


Pavingham,  Pavenham,  Pakenham,  co. 
Bedford,  191,  323. 

Pavy,  William,  118. 

Pawelet.    See  Paulet. 

Paweley,  Eichard,  289. 

Paxton,  Great,  co.  Huntingdon,  141, 

 ,  Little,  485.! 

Payn,  Ralph,  251. 

 ,  Eichard,  9,  146. 

  Eoger,  chaplain  of  Newton  Popple- 
ford,  280,  358,  376, 

 ,  Thomas,  7,  128,  355,  526, 

 ,  Walter,  286,  288. 

Paynell,  John,  620. 

 ,  William,  285,  253,  619. 

Payneswyk.    See  Painswick. 

Paynter,  Thomas,  565. 

Payntour,  Alexander,  300. 

 ,  William,  28. 

Pebmarsh,  co.  Essex,  515. 

Pecche,  William,  199,  283,  618, 

Pecham,  James,  352. 

Peohecroft,  co.  Devon,  343. 

Pecke,  Thomas,  387. 

Peckhani,  co.  Kent,  602. 

 ,  East,  Estpekham,  co.  Kent,  187. 

Pecok,  John,  202. 

 ,  Robert,  409. 

L'eke,  Pek,  Pekke,  George,  382,  432. 

 ,  John,  218,  269, 

 ,  Robert,  54. 

 ,  Thomas,  579. 

 ,  William,  168,  289,  570,  579,  607. 

Pekeryng,  John,  5. 

Pekhara,  Pekkeham,  James,  195,  199,  219. 

 ,   ,  sheriff  of  Kent,  363. 

 ,  Peter,  177. 

Pekke.    See  Peke. 

Pekkeham.    See  Pekham. 

Pelham,  John,  247,  249,  633. 

Pelitott,  John,  chaplain  of  the  chantry  at 

the  altar  of  St.  Mary  in  Chichester 

cathedral,  308. 
 ,  ,  parson  of  St.  Peter  by  G-yldyn- 

hall,  Chichester,  308. 
Pelkyngton.    See  Pilkington. 
Pelle,  John,  parson  of  Little  Laver,  50. 
Pellican,  William,  302. 

Pelly,  John,  escheator  in  Norfolk  and  Suffolk, 
126. 

Peloponnesus,  the,  65. 
Pelsou,  Robert,  286. 
Pemberd,  John,  201. 
Pemberton,  John,  81,  184,  363. 

 ,   ,  warden  of  the  hospital  of 

St.  Mary,  Ospringe,  228,  274. 

 ,  Eichard,  624, 

 Robert,  493,  590,  624. 

,.,  ,  escheator  in   the  county  of 

Northampton,  558. 


GENERAL  INDEX. 


757 


Peuibridge,  Pcmbrugge,  co.  Hereford,  14,  60. 
Peiiibridge,  Richard,  425. 

 ,  Petronilla  his  wife,  425. 

Pembroke,  175,  454. 

 ,  county  of,  175. 

 ,  earl  of.    See  Herbert;  Tudor. 

Penard,  Pennarth,  co.  Glamorgan,  163,  191. 
Penbroke,  Richard,  abbot  of  Evesham,  15, 
35. 

Pendeen,  Pendyne,  co.  Cornwall,  380. 
Pendile,  .Tames  de  la,  295. 
Pendley,  Pendeley  [co.  Hertford],  47,  135, 
329. 

Pendragon,  co.  Westmoreland,  2G4,  423,  532. 
Pendyne.    See  Pendeeu. 
Pendyne,  Richard,  380. 
Penery,  Penewry,  John,  591. 
Penfoun,  co.  Cornwall,  576. 
Penfoun,  John,  29,  378,  44:?,  576. 
Pengo,  Pyngewode,  co.  Surrey,  308. 
Penhale  [in  St.  Enodor],  co.  Cornwall,  297, 
560. 

Penhale,  John,  114. 
Penketh,  Richard,  516. 
Penkridge,  Penkryche,  co.  Stafford,  577. 
Penley.    See  Pendley. 
Pcnley,  John,  263. 
Penlyn,  John,  362. 
Penmarch,  in  Brittany,  521. 
Penmon  and  Prestholme,  co.  Anglcsca,  priory 
of,  122. 

 ,  William  Ardcscote,  prior  of,  122. 

 ,  John  Ingram,  prior  of,  123. 

Pennalyn  (?  Penlean),  co.  Cornwall,  58. 

Pennarth.    See  Penard. 

Penne,  co.  Buckingham,  73. 

Penne,  John,  208,  218. 

Pennelay,  co.  Pembroke,  32,  137. 

Pennyng,  John,  75. 

Penpole,  co.  Cornwall,  431,  457,  529. 

Penpons,  John,  351,  354,  400,  491,  610. 

 ,  escheator  in  Devon  and  Corn- 
wall, 536. 

Pcnpoull.    See  Paimpol. 

Penrith  [co.  Cumberland],  214,  260,  266,424, 
48.3,  487. 

Penry,  Penury,  John,  591. 

Pensford,  co.  Somerset,  320,  380,  457,  530. 

Penshurst,  co.  Kent,  300. 

Pentney,  co  Norfolk,  prior  of,  223,  253. 

Pentre,  co.  Flint,  153. 

Pentrich,  Pentrychc,  co.  Derby,  381. 

Pentyre,  John,  400. 

Peny,  Thomas,  8. 

 William,  494. 

Penyard,  co.  Hereford,  414. 

Penycok,  John,  24,  46. 

Penzance,  co.  Cornwall,  104. 

Pepyr,  Edmund,  221. 

 ,  William,  vicar  of  Sborne,  435. 


Perauut,  John,  321. 

Percy,  Henry,  second  earl  of  Northumberland, 
103. 

 ,   ,  third  earl, 26,  65,  103,  137,279, 

312. 

 ,  Eleanor  his  wife,  812. 

 ,  fourth  earl,  206,  221,  267, 

349,  350,  426,  438,  464,  505,  513,  523, 

541,  583,  605,  610,  618-621,  623,  624, 

632,  633,  635-638. 

 ,  sheriff  of  Northumberlapd,  467. 

 ,   ,  justice  of  the  forests  beyond 

Trent,  258. 

  ,  warden  of  the  east  and  middle 

marches  towards  Scotland,  313,  341, 
450,  545,  591. 

 ,  Leo,  200. 

 Richard,  321. 

 ,  ,  Katharine  his  wife,  321. 

 ,  Thomas,  440. 

Percy  Fee,  in  Ludford,  co.  Lincoln  457,  529. 
Pere,  William,  255,  386. 
Pereles,  John,  599. 
Peressou,  Richard,  49,  331,  604. 
Perett.    Sec  Perret. 
Perham.    See  Parham. 
Perkyns,  John,  10. 
Peronne,  in  France,  583. 
Perot,  Thomas,  the  elder,  446. 
Perpoynt,  Perpouut,  Henry,  199,  284,  350, 
428,  625. 

Perrau   Uthnoe,  St.  Peran  iu  Uthno,  co. 

Cornwall,  334. 
Perret,  Perett,  John,  par.son  of  Lasbam,  239, 

337. 

Perrote,  Thomas,  289. 
Persall,  Humphrey,  287. 
Pershore,  co.   Worcester,    Edmund,  abbot 
of,  3. 

Person,  Henry,  291. 

 ,  William,  504. 

Pertenball,  Partnall,co.  Bedford,  142,  438. 

Perth,  in  Scotland,  409. 

Perwiche,  Richard,  619. 

Perwych.    Sec  Parwich. 

Perynerleson,  Peter,  331. 

Perys,  Martin,  378. 

Pestc,  John,  169,  201. 

Pesehalc,  Humphrey,  219. 

Pesemerssb,  John,  14. 

 ,  Dame  Joan  his  wife,  14. 

Pestell,  William,  escheator  of  Norfolk  and 

Suffolk,  387. 
Petegrewe,  John,  75. 
Peter,  Petyr,  John,  516. 
Peterborough,  co.  Northampton,  8,  38  212. 

 ,  abbey  of,  265,271. 

 ,  convent  of,  266,  418. 

 William,  abbot  of,  292. 

 ,  Richard  Assheton,  abbot  of,  266,  292, 

418. 


758 


GENERAL  INDEX. 


Peterborough,  William  Eamsey,  abbotof,  265, 
271. 

Petercorne,  yearly  profit  called,  131. 
Peter  Marland,  retermerlon,  co.  Devon,  36. 
Petersham,  co.  Surrey,  64. 
Petewyn,  Thomas,  596. 
Petham,  co.  Kent,  300. 

 ,  hundred  of,  300. 

Petherton,  Pederton,  Petterton,  co.  Somerset, 
583. 

 forest  of,  175,  269,  372. 

 ,  South,  84,  86,  303. 

 ,  North,  CO.  Dorset  [rectius  Somerset], 

93. 

Petit,  Matthew,  548. 

Petit,  Giles  le,  333. 

Petrell.    See  Petterill. 

Pettam,  in  France,  266. 

Pettam,  Petham,  Bartholomew,  385. 

 ,  ,  Joan  his  wife,  385. 

Pette,  Thomas,  303. 

Petterill,  Petrell  Wra,  co.  Cumberland,  506. 
Petteworthe,  Eichard,  4. 
Petwall,  Eichard,  407. 
Petyt,  Henry,  289. 

 ,  John,  54,  78,  104. 

 ,  Thomas,  80. 

Petyte,  William,  the  elder,  61. 

 ,  ,  the  younger,  61. 

Peuke,  John,  471. 

Peuplingue,  Pyplyng,  in  the  marches  of  Calais, 
125. 

Peurestoke.    See  Poorstock. 

Peverel,  honour  of,  61,  87,  243. 

Peverell,  John,  503. 

Peynter,  William,  503. 

Peynton,  Roger,  402. 

Peyntour,  John,  240. 

Peyso,  Damianus  de,  236,  361. 

Peytewyn,  Master  Walter,   prebendary  of 

Bridgnorth,  210. 
Peyton  Hall  [in  Alphamstone] ,  co.  Essex, 

515. 

Peyton,  Thomas,  245,  248,  609. 

Philip,  Philips,  Phelippes,  Phelpes,  Hugh,  6. 

 ,   ,  parson  of  King's  Eipton,  132. 

 ,   ,  parson  of  Bramfield,  132. 

 ,  John,  65,  80,  225,  276,  354,  419, 

435. 

 ,   ,  Alice  his  wife,  65. 

 ,  John,  parson  of  Shelton,  274. 

 ,  ,  the  elder,  171. 

 the  younger,  171. 

 ,  Matthew,  257. 

 ,  Oto,  491. 

 ,  Kobert,  115,  200.  578. 

,..          Thomas,  401,  404,409,  589. 

 ,   ,  escheator  of  Somerset  and 

Dorset,  555. 
..  .  ...  William,  43,  65. 


Philip.  William,  parson  of  Aldrington,  396. 
Philpot,  Phelpot,  John,  225,  246,  435. 

 ,  Eoger,  130,  463,  614. 

 ,  William,  225,  435,  526. 

 ,  ,  Margaret  his  wife,  225,  435. 

Phippes,  Thomas,  432. 

Pibur,  Pybour,  co.  Caermarthen,  60. 

Picardy,  20,  42,  86,  89,  96,  108,  125,  204, 

211,  309,  457,  529,  591. 
Pichelsthorn.    See  Pitstone. 
Picheringe.    See  Pickering. 
Pickbum,  Pykburn,  co.  York,  575. 
Pickering,  Picheringe,  Pykeryng,  co.  York,  2. 

 ,  charter  dated  at,  117. 

Pierpount,  Roger,  109. 
Piers,  John,  213,  602. 

 William,  578,  589. 

Pigmer,  Robert,  553. 
Pikbourn,  John,  37. 

  And  see  Pykburn. 

Pikeryng,  John,  408,  416. 

  And  see  Pykeryng. 

Pilkington,  Pylkyngton,  Arthur,  escheator  of 

Cambridge  and  Huntingdon,  107. 
 ,  George,  prebendary  of  Bridgnorth, 

184. 

 ,  John,  20,  151,  198,  221,  261,  279, 

307,  334,  .349,  378,  408,  419,  426,  464, 
564,  602,  638. 

 ,  ,  Joan  his  wife,  564. 

 Otwell,  1.55. 

 ,  Eobert,  573. 

 ,  Thomas,  426,  573. 

Pillerton,  Pylarton,  co.  Warwick,  8. 

Pinchbeck,  co.  Lincoln,  508,  560. 

Pinczon,  Eoland,  198. 

Pinnockshire,  Pyunokshiro,  co.  Gloucester, 

466,  536. 
Piper,  Thomas,  204. 

Piracy,  28,  29,  54,  57,  101,  104,  129,  197, 
198,  201,  217,  221,  222,  240,  249,  288, 
317-319,  353,  354,  377-379,409,  429, 
474,  492,  493,  600,  602,  605. 

Pirton.    See  Pyrton. 

Pitney,  Pitteney,  co.  Somerset,  53. 

Pitte,  John,  436. 

Pitteford,  William,  552. 

Pittelisden,  Pytlesden,  Vincent,  24,  94. 

Pitteney.    See  Pitney. 

Pittes,  Richard,  80. 

Pitton,  Pyttyn,  co.  Devon,  331. 

Pitsea,  Pyttysey,  co.  Essex,  436. 

Pitstone,  Pichelsthorn,  co.  Buckingham,  135. 

Place,  William  de  la,  213. 

Plaistow  in  Bromley,  co.  Kent.  21. 

Plater,  Thomas,  408. 

Playstowe,  Pleystowe,  Eichard,  10,  148,  202. 
Pleasley,  Pleseley,  co.  Derby,  508. 
Plecy.    Sec  Pleshey. 


GENERAL  INDEX. 


759 


Plecy,  Robert,  417. 

Plesaunce,  co.  Kent,  64. 

Plesaunee,  George,  580. 

Pleseley.    See  Pleasley. 

Pleoeley,  John,  parson  of  Springthorpe,  396. 

 ,  rector  of  a  moiety  of  the  church 

of  Treswell,  396. 
Pleshey,  Plecy,  Plesshe,  co.  Essex,  243. 

 college  of,  69. 

Pleystowe.    See  Playstowe. 

Plomer,  Plommer,  John,  73,  96,  106,  117, 

418,  471,  472. 

 ,  ,  Margaret  his  wife,  471,  472. 

 ,  Robert,  329,  348,  428,  496. 

  And  see  Plummer. 

Plomme,  Richard,  393. 
PlomptOD,  Walter,  251. 

  And  see  Plumptou. 

Plomtre,  Henry,  256. 

Plouay,  Blawet,  in  Brittany,  521. 

Ploufeld,  John,  224. 

Plough  wry  ght,  Plowryght,  William,  500. 
Powden,  John,  521 . 
Ploweden,  Roger,  163. 

Plowm,  William,  presented  to  the  church  of 

Chaldrington,  359. 
Plumgarth.    See  Plungar. 
Plummer,  Henry,  81. 

 ,  John,  keeper  of  the  wardrobe  of 

Henry  VI.,  228,  232,  237. 

 Robert,  407,  490. 

  And  see  Plomer. 

Plumpton,  Plympton,  co.  Sussex,  6,  363. 

 ,  Plompton,  CO.  York,  421,  601. 

Plumpton,  Plompton,  Elizabeth,  601. 
 ,  Margaret,  601. 

 ,  William,  10,  55,  327,  349,  353,  355, 

408,  421,  572,  601,  638. 

 ,  William  de,  601. 

 ,  Alice  his  wife,  601. 

 ,  Marmaduke  de,  602. 

Plumsted,  Little,  co.  Norfolk,  13. 
Pluugar,  Plumgarth,  co.  Leciester,  27,  517. 
Plymouth,  co.  Devon,  7,  109,142,257,326, 

519,  580. 

 ,port  of,  11,  34,  59,  209,  216,  230, 

268,  521,  536,  555,  603. 

 ,  mayor  of.    See  Chapman. 

Plympton,  Plymton,  co.  Devon,  22,  23,  176, 

189,  280,  431,  457,  529. 

 ,  hundred  of,  22,  189,  280,  457,  529. 

  Earle,  72,  224,  381. 

  And  see  Plumpton. 

Plymtree,  Plymptre,  co.  Devon,  60. 
Pocklington,  Poklyngton,  co.  York,  279,  541. 
Pocok,  John,  202. 

 ,  Katharine  his  wife,  202. 

Podennek.    See  Bodinnock. 
Poke,  John,  354. 
Fokebroke.    See  Polebrook. 


Pokerych.    See  Puckeridge. 

Pokeryng,  William,  269,  305. 

Poldeve.    See  Poljew. 

Pole.    See  Poole. 

Pole,  John,  318. 

 ,  Nicholas,  256. 

 ,  William,  373,  500,  507. 

de  la  Pole,  John,  duke  of  Suffolk,  96,  170, 
195-197,  199,  245-249,  261,  285,  312, 
317,  349,  350,  352,  353,  373,  408,  417, 
582,  583,  606,  608,  622,  62.5,  626,  630. 

 ,   ,  Elizabeth  his  wife,  the  king's 

sister,  261,  312. 

 ,  John,  earl  of  Lincoln,  96. 

 Katharine,  abbess  of  Barking,  388. 

 ,  Michael,  earl  of  Suffolk,  242,  593. 

 ,  Katharine  his  wife,  593. 

 ,  William,  duke  of  Suffolk,  65,  66. 

 ,  ,  Alice  his  wife,  65,  66,  325, 362, 

417,  435,  550. 

Polebrook,  Pokebroke,  co.  Northampton,  170. 

Poleson.    Sec  Poison. 

Polesworth,  co.  Warwick,  117. 

Poley  [in  Pebmarsh],  co.  Essex,  515. 

Poley,  John,  291. 

 ,  Simon,  406. 

Poleyu,  William,  76. 

Polhamptou  by  Ashe,  co.  Southampton,  571. 
Poljew,  Polsewe,  Poldeve  [in  St.  Erme],  co. 

Cornwall,  297,  560. 
Poll.    See  i'oole. 
Pollard,  John,  29. 

Pollington,  Polyugton  in  Snayth,  co.  York, 
499. 

Polruan,  co.  Cornwall,  492. 

 port  of,  492. 

Polsewe.    See  Poljew. 
Polsloe  [in  Heavitree],  co.  Devon,  434. 
Poison,  Poleson,  Henry,  397. 
Polstead  Hall,  in  Burnham,  co.  Norfolk,  237, 
308. 

Polstede,  John,  579. 
Polvertoft,  Gilbert,  75. 
Polwenererwartha,  co.  Cornwall,  61. 
Polwheuererwartha,  Gilbert,  61. 
Polyngham,  co.  Cambridge,  538. 
Pomeroy,  Poraerey,  Pomeray,  Pomery,  Henry, 
198,  407,  567,  612. 

 ,   ,  Anne  his  wife,  567. 

 John,  490. 

 ,   ,  abbot  of  St.  Mary  de  Pr6, 

Leicester,  123,  461. 

 ,  Richard,  377,  552. 

 Thomas,  406. 

 ,   ,    prior    of    Holy  Trinity 

London,  500. 

Ponde,  Stephen,  544. 

Pondsford,  Pontisford  by  Colurapton,  co 
Devon,  156,  174. 

Ponsbury.    See  Pontesbury. 


160 


GENERAL  INDEX. 


Pontage,  161. 

Ponte,  John  de,  414. 

Pontefract,  Pountfret,  co.  York,  600. 

 ,  prior  and  convent  of,  564. 

 ,  Eichard  Broune,  prior  of,  564. 

Ponteland,  Pount  Eland,  co.  Northumberland, 
523. 

PonteknoU.    See  Puncknoll. 

Pontesbury,  Ponsbury,  co.  Salop,  church  of, 
prebends  in,  277. 

Pontisford.    See  Pondsford. 

Pontys  [in  Bulmer],  co.  Essex,  515. 

Ponynges,  co.  Suffolk,  191. 

Ponynges,  Edward,  312,  576. 

 ,  Eleanor,  312. 

 ,  Richard,  812. 

 ,  Robert,  the  elder,  312. 

 ,   ,  the  younger,  312. 

Pool,  North,  Northpole,  co.  Devon,  60,  127. 

Poole,  Pole,  CO.  Dorset,  154,  208,  501. 

 ,  port  of,  11,  34,  59,  91,  95,  155,  160, 

167,  216,  230,  262,  268,  335,  337,  357, 
367,  392,  410,  441,  451,  521. 
Poorstock,  Peurestoke,  co.  Dorset,  242. 
Poort,  Richard,  224,  320. 
Pope,  the,  67,  131,  135,  193,  206,  272,  373. 

  And  see  Paul ;  Sixtus. 

Pope,  John,  385. 

 ,  Thomas,  237. 

Popeley,  John,  355,  572. 
Popham,  Richard,  522. 
Poripighan.    See  Portpigham. 
Porlock,  CO.  Somerset,  476. 
Port,  John,  mayor  of  Salisbury,  128. 

 ,  William,  143,  186. 

Portbury,  co.  Somerset,  502. 
Portchester,  co.  Southampton,  23,  41,  422. 

 ,  forest  of,  41,  422. 

Porte,  Margaret,  prioress  of  Ankerwyke,  380. 
Porter,  Edmund,  318. 

 ,  Giles,  318. 

 ,  Robert,  318. 

 John,  8,  115,  147,  201,  208,  250,  257, 

350,  386,  406,  433,  504,  628. 

 Thomas,  324,  588. 

 ,  William,  436. 

Porters,  Purters,  in  Stebbing,  co.  Essex,  297. 
Porthaleyn,  Thomas,  24,  46,  117,  622. 
Porthea.    See  St,  Ives. 
Porthia.    See  St.  Ives. 
Portloo,  CO.  Cornwall,  457,  529. 

Portpigham,  Poripighan,  co.  Cornwall,  457, 
329. 

Ports.  See  Barnstaple  ;  Beaumaris  ;  Bide- 
ford  ;  Boston  ;  Bridgewater  ;  IJristol ; 
Calais  ;  Chester ;  Chichester  ;  Conway  ; 
Crozon ;  Dartmouth  ;  Dover  ;  Exeter  ; 
Exmouth  ;  Fowey ;  Grimsby ;  Has- 
tings ;  Ipswich  ;  Kingston  ou  Hull ; 
London ;   Lostwithiel ;  Lynn  ;  New- 


Ports. — conf. 

castle  on  Tyne ;  Orwell ;  Plymouth  j 
Polruan ;  Poole';  Portsmouth;  Rom- 
ney  ;  Rye  ;  Salcombe  ;  Sandwich  ; 
Shoreham  ;  Southampton  ;  Topsham  ; 
Weymouth;  Winchelsea;  Yarmouth. 

Portsmouth,  co.  Southampton,  41,  65,  126, 
422,  493,  571,  574. 

 ,  charters  dated  at,  67,  136. 

 ,  port  of,  105. 

Portugal,  357,  359,  362,  377,  379,  450,  471, 
509. 

 ,  king  of.    See  Alfonso. 

 ,  ship  called i<o?-<ac?o  of,  57,  lOl. 

Portyngton,  Richard,  428. 

 ,  .......  escheator  of  the  couuty  of 

York,  390. 

 ,  Robert,  the  elder,  251. 

 ,  Thomas,  253. 

 ,  ,  parson  of  Pertenhall,  438. 

 ,   ,  parson  of  Baldock,  440. 

Poslingford,  co.  Suffolk,  89. 

Possebury,  co.  Devon,  36. 

Posshe,  Henry,  300. 

Poteman,  Williara,  569. 

Potsgrove,  Pottysgrave,  co.  Bedford,  521. 

Potte,  Robert,  335.  '~ 

Potter,  Michael,  42. 

 ,  Thomas,  489. 

Pouche,  William,  470. 

Pouldu  (in  Finistere),  in  Britauny,  474. 

Poulet,  Dorothy,  559. 

 ,  James,  559. 

 ,  John,  196. 

 ,  ,  the  elder,  558. 

 ,  ,  the  younger,  558. 

 ,  Leonard,  558. 

 ,  Margaret,  559. 

 ,  Walter,  559. 

 ,  William,  558. 

  And  see  Paulet. 

Poulperre,  John,  354. 

Poulton,  Pulton,  co.  Lancaster,  515. 

Poulyn,  John,  581. 

Pounde,  le,  in  Guysnes,  457. 

Pounde,  Pownde,  John,  196,  490,  493. 

 ,  Thomas,  33,  56,  59,  85,  122,  186,  318, 

351,405,  429,  495,  572,  629. 
Pounte,  John,  213. 

 John  de,  213, 

 ,  John  du,  414. 

Pount  Eland.    See  Ponteland. 
Pountene,  co.  Kent,  283,  546. 
Pounteney,  Thomas,  392. 
Pountfret.    See  Pontefract. 
Poupley,  Thomas,  464. 
Poutrell,  John,  161,  408,  501,  611. 
Povington,  Povyngtou,  co.  Dorset,  461. 

 ,  priory  of,  63. 

Powderham,  Powdram,  co.  Devon,  291. 


GENERAL 

Power,  John,  494. 

 ,  Eobert,  the  elder,  286,  287. 

 ,  ,  the  younger,  286,  287. 

 ,  Thomas,  286. 

 ,  ,  parson  of  St.  Mary,  Calais, 

568. 

Powlet.    See  Paulet ;  Poulet. 
Powyck,  Eichard,  102. 
Powlowe,  CO.  Westmoreland,  96. 
Powys,  lordship  of,  233. 

 ,  lord  of.    See  Tiptoft ;  Grey. 

Poy,  John,  vicar  of  Chisledon,  255. 
Poynes,  Humphrey,  403. 

 ,  Richard,  54. 

 ,  Eobert,  219,  220. 

Poyntz,  John,  23,  279. 

 ,  Robert,  23,  279,  429. 

Prat,  Pratte,  Matthew,  216. 

 ,  Nicholas,  472. 

 ,  Richard,  446,  501. 

 ,  William,  417. 

Prattesland,  co.  Devon,  343. 
Pre,  de,  by  Leicester,  monastery  of.  See 
Leicester. 

Predannack  (in  Mulliou),  co.  Cornwall,  297, 
560. 

Freest,  Walter,  325,  430. 

Prelate,  William,  254. 

Premonstratensian  order,  304. 

Prcndergist,  Thomas,  60, 

Prescott,  CO.  Oxford,  452. 

Prestc,  Thomas,  39. 

Prestholmc,  priory  of.    See  I'enmon. 

Prestman,  John,  277. 

Preston,  co.  Buckingham,  18. 

 CO.  Devon,  60. 

 ,  CO.  Gloucester,  G7. 

 ,  CO.  Hertford,  320. 

 ,  CO.  Kent,  42. 

 ,  hundred  of,  301. 

 ,  CO.  Rutland,  346. 

 ,  CO.  Somerset,  461,  551. 

 CO.  Suffolk,  89,  297,  538. 

 ,  CO.  Sussex,  42,  585. 

 Capes,  CO.  Northampton,  153. 

Preston,  Gilbert,  73. 

 ,  John,  3,  8,  81. 

 ,  Richard,  6,  139,  390,  419,  550. 

 ,  Eobert,  lord  of  Gormaneston,  193. 

 ,  Stephen,  126,  IGO. 

 ,  Thomas,  6,  77,  578. 

 ,  ,  Alice  his  wife,  578. 

 ,  William,  84. 

Prestonlond,  co.  Devon,  343. 
Prestonpans,  Saltprestou,  in  Scotland,  453. 
Preterwell.    -See  Prittlewell. 
Prewe,  Walter,  321. 
Preystman,  John,  214. 
Price,  John,  354. 


INDEX.  7G1 

Priddy,  Prydy,  co.  Somerset,  148. 
Prinket,  John,  crier  in  the  King's  Bench, 
265. 

Priour,  John,  44,  330,  589. 
Prittlewell,  Preterwell,  co.  Essex,  priory  of, 
65. 

 ,  Hugh,  prior  of,  65. 

Privy  seal,  415. 

 keeper  of.  See  Hales  ;  Huls ;  Rother- 

ham  ;  Russell ;  Stillington. 
 ,  second  in  the  office  of.    See  Kent 

Coke  ;  Russell. 
Probys,  John,  5. 

Profoot,  John,  the  king's  secretary,  48,  305. 

Proktour,  Thomas,  580. 
Proll,  John,  127. 
Promehelle.    See  Broorahill. 
Promter,  William,  75. 
Proute,  Thomas,  419. 

Prouwet,  Alexander,  parson  of  Bottesford, 
245. 

Prowte,  Thomas,  parson  of  Codford  St.  Peter, 
443. 

 ,  parson  of  Turners  Piddle,  443. 

Prussia,  169,  491,  494. 
Prut,  Thomas,  317,  608. 
Pryce,  William,  149. 
Prydy.    See  Priddy. 
Pryk,  William,  202. 
Prymour,  Robert,  325. 
Prysot,  John,  72. 

 ,   ,  chief  justice  of  the  Bench,  1-7, 

9,  10,  12,  16,38,  51,  72-79,  81,  91,  94, 
109,  142-149,  173,  183,  194,  202,  203, 
22.')-228,  253-257,  321-323,  326,  364, 
380,  382,  384-386,  431-436,  482,  498, 
501,  502,  522,  575,  577,  579,  581. 

Puche,  John  de,  159. 

Puckcridge,  Pokerych,  co.  Hertford,  498. 

Pudenbrock,  Judoc  de,  237. 

Pudsay,  Pudsey,  Edward,  215. 

 ,  Grace,  215. 

 ,  John,  355. 

 ,  Eoland,  215. 

 ,  Thomas,  200,  490. 

 ,  William,  215,  317. 

Pulborougli,  Pulbarowc,  co.  Sussex,  80. 

Pulestou,  Roger,  152. 

Pullerbache.    See  Pulvcrbatch. 

Pulteuey,  John,  255,  619. 

 Thomas,  392,  401. 

Palter,  John,  100,  199,  285,  340,  407,  428, 
542,  617. 

 ,  Richard,  prior  of  St.  Bartholomew  in 

West  Smithfield,  London,  265,  272. 
Pulton.    See  Poulton. 
Pulvcrbatch,  Pullerbache,  co.  Salop,  366. 

 ,  Castle,  365. 

 ,  Church,  365. 

Punche,  John,  95,  293. 

Puncknoll,  Ponteknoll,  co.  Dorset,  457,  529. 


762  GENERAL 

Purbeek,  co.  Dorset,  forest  of,  182,  263,  367. 
Purcas,  John,  180. 
Purcell,  Thomas,  500. 
Purchas,  Purches,  William,  389,  416,  434. 
Puriton,  Piiryton,  co.  Somerset,  187,  461, 
.551. 

Purke,  Alice,  73. 
Purpyt,  William,  7. 
Purters.    See  Porters. 
Pury,  John,  77,  208,  218,  374. 
Puryton.    See  Puriton. 
Puse,  Damian  de  la,  386. 
Pussyn,  Eobert,  203. 
Putte,  Walter,  140. 

Puttock's  Hardwick,  Puttokeshardwik,  co. 

Huntingdon,  485. 
Pybour.    See  Pibur. 
Pycard,  Eichard,  202. 
Pye,  Eoger,  82. 

Pygge,  John,  bishop  of  Ardfert,  469. 
 ,   ,  parson   of   St.  Christopher, 

London,  469. 
Pyggyll,  William,  436. 
Pygot,  CO.  Lincoln,  354. 
Pygot,  Edmund,  184,  201. 

 ,  Geoffrey,  55. 

 ,  John,  417,  597. 

 ,  Eichard,  38,  102,  103,  163,  245-249, 

254,  364,  378,  408,  517,  569,  572,  607- 

609,  617,  622,  631,  637.  _ 

 ,  Joan  his  wife,  254. 

 ,  Eobert,  289. 

 William,  301. 

Pykburn.    See  Pickburn. 
Pykburn,  John,  575. 

 ,  Thomas,  77 

 ,   ,  Joan  his  wife,  77. 

  And  see  Pikbourn. 

Pyke,  Stephen,  parson  of  Goldhanger,  146. 
Pykenham,  Master  William,  171. 
Pykeryng,  John,  285,  349,  505,  637. 

Margaret,  432. 
 ,  Eichard,  9. 

 ^  Dan  Thomas,  abbot  of  Whitby,  544. 

 ,  William,  503. 

  And  see  Pickering  ;  Pikeryng. 

Pyket,  Eichard,  31. 

Pylarton.    See  Pillerton. 

Pylbergh,  Stephen,  parson  of  Measden,  321. 

Pylche,  Thomas,  75. 

Pyle,  Henry,  61. 

Pylkyngton.    See  Pilkington. 

Pyll,  Thomas,  4. 
Pylme,  William,  44. 
Pylton,  John,  599. 

 ,  William,  381. 

Pylyen,  Ivo,  605. 
Pympe,  Thomas,  300. 
Pynchamore,  John,  225. 


INDEX. 

Pynchebek,  Eichard,  28,  170,  354,  503,  619. 

 ,   ,  Joan  his  wife,  503. 

Pynchelegh,  co.  Cornwall,  58. 
Pyncheon,  Thomas,  231. 

 ,  Elizabeth,  his  wife,  231. 

Pynchyn,  William,  101. 
Pynde,  Thomas,  342,  374. 
Pyngewode.    See  Penge. 
Pyngyll,  WilHam,  326. 
Pynke,  John,  141. 
Pynne,  John,  41 1 . 

 ,  Philip,  115. 

Pynnokshire.    See  Pinnockshire. 

Pyplyng.    See  Peuplingue. 

Pyrton,  Pirton,  William,  248,  249,  286,  345, 

491,  613. 
Pyrules,  John,  553. 

Pyrwyn,  ship  called  la  Jennett  of,  526. 
Pytlesden.    See  Pittelisden. 
Pyttyn.    See  Pitton. 
Pyttysey.    See  Pitsea. 


Q. 

Quadring,  co.  Lincoln,  457,  529,  560. 
Quainton,  Queynton,  co.  Buckingham,  152. 
Quans,  John,  443. 

Quantockshead,  Est  Cantok,  Cantokkeshed, 

CO.  Somerset,  194,  330,  364,  522. 
Quaplode.    See  Whaplode. 
Quarendon.    See  Quorndon. 
Quarles  Courte  in  Horton,  co.  Wilts,  533. 
Quarndon.    See  Quorndon. 
Quarnle.    See  Wharnley. 
Quarton,  John,  606. 

Quarme,  Quarum  [in  Winsford,  co.  Somer 
set],  36. 

Quaterinayns,  Eichard,  18,  26,  40,  41,  101, 

226,  285,  286,  350,  375,  399,  406,  422, 

573,  625,  626. 
Queenborough,    Quenesburgh,  Quynburgh, 

Isle  of  Sheppey,  co,  Kent,  88,  301,  457, 

529. 

 ,  mayor  of.    See  Ean. 

Queen's  Camel,  co.  Somerset,  339. 
Quemenes  (in  Finistere),  in  Brittany,  474. 
Quenecourt,  co.  Kent,  401. 
Queneson,  William,  37. 
Querndon.    See  Quorndon. 
Queynton.    See  Quainton. 
Quidampton,  John,  405,  429. 
Quidenham,  Quydenham,  co.  Norfolk,  562. 
Quikerell,  Eobert,  71. 

Quincy,  Eoger,  earl  of  Winchester,  413,  423. 
Quintone.    See  Kineton. 


GENERAL  INDEX. 


763 


Quitac,  Ivo,  198. 

Quorndon,      Quarndon,     Quarendon,  co. 

Leicester,  26,  27,  383,  517. 
Quoteulem,  Nicholas,  198. 
Quydhampton,  Kobert,  mayor  of  Reading, 

317. 

Quynburgh.    See  Queenborough. 
Quyne,  Thomas,  3. 
Quytriggo.    See  Whiterigg. 
Quyxley,  John,  318. 
Qwitbrigge.    5ee  Whiterigg. 
Qwyk,  Joan,  187. 
Qwynbarough,  Robert,  40.5. 


Raa,  William,  224. 

Rabanks,  Richard,  277. 

Raccbe.    See  Neroche. 

Racheford.    See  Rochford. 

Racheford,  William,  3.55. 

Radcliff,  Radclyf,  Bai'tholomew,  dean  of  the 

collegiate  church  of  Bishop  Auckland, 

382. 

 George,  216,  259,  269. 

  Henry,  124. 

 ,   ,  Isabel  his  wife,  124. 

 John,  245,  249,  336,  510,  G23. 

 Robert,  15,  216,  336,  337,  491,  510. 

 ,   ,  Margaret  his  wife,  336,  337. 

 ,  Roger,  86,  190,  433. 

 Thomas,  46,  271. 

 .Walter,  340,  521. 

 ,  William,  the  elder,  511. 

 ,   ,  the  younger,  511. 

  And  see  Ratcl  yfl. 

Radford,  co.  Nottingham,  600. 

Radford,  Radeford,  Nicholas,  5,  194,  522. 

 ,  William,  49,  331. 

Radley,  Thomas,  377. 

Radlet,  Radlot  [in  Spaxton],  co.  Somerset, 

194,  200,  522. 
Radway,  co.  Warwick,  64,  411. 
Ragnall,  Ragenhull,  co.  Nottingham,  243, 

441,  482. 
Raincliff,  Raynclyff,  co.  York,  541. 
Rainham,  Renham,  co.  Essex,  charter  dated 

at,  371. 

 ,  Roynham,  co.  Kent,  202,  502,  540, 

541. 

Raissheley    See  Rashleigh. 
Raithby,  Ratheby,  co.  Lincoln,  508. 
Ralegh,  John,  the  elder,  403. 

 ,  Walter,  4,  403. 

 ,  Joan  his  wife,  4. 


Raley,  Simon,  109. 

Ramerygge,  Andrew,  80. 

Rampisham,  Ramsham,  co.  Dorset,  457,  529. 

Rampsham,  Dan  Peter,  abbot  of  Sherborne, 

550.  554. 
Ramsam.    See  Rampisham. 
Ramsbury,  Remesbury,  co.  Wilts,  523. 
Ramsham.    See  Rampisham. 
Ramsey,  co.  Huntingdon,  abbey  of,  86,  98, 

107,  400. 

 abbot  and  convent  of,  86,  107,  394. 

 ,  John,  abbot  of,  617. 

 John  Stowe,  abbot  of,  107. 

 ,  William  Witlesey,  abbot  of,  98,  107, 

392,  394. 

 ,  Dan  John  Wardeboys,  abbot  of,  392 

400. 

Ramsey,  William,  abbot  of  Peterborough,  265, 
-  271. 

Ran,  Richard,  mayor  of  Queenborough,  493. 

Rande,  483,  487. 

Randolfif,  John,  460. 

Raoul,  John,  521. 

Raparaff,  Pelyngto  de,  866. 

Raphael  by  Lansallos,  Ratbewill   by  Lan- 

salwys,  CO.  Cornwall,  579. 
Rashleigh,  Raissheley,  co.  Devon,  36. 
Raskelf,  co.  York,  483,  486,  487. 
Raskemer,  William,  169. 
Rason,  John,  271. 
Rasshe,  John,  336. 
Rassyngham,  Giles  van,  335,  459. 
Ratby,  Rotby,  co.  Leicester,  27,  517. 
RatclyfF,  Elias,  141. 
 Hugh,  28. 

Ratclyff,  Ratteclyff,  John,  of  FitzWantcr,  12, 
21. 

 .Elizabeth  his  wife,  12.  21. 

  Richard,  12. 

 Robert,  268,  299,  352,  354,  619-621. 

  And  sec  RadclifiF. 

Ratheby.    See  Raithby. 

Rathewill.    See  Haphael. 

Rathmell,  Rothemell,  co.  York,  307.  419. 

Rath  wire,  Rawyre  [co.  Meath],  458,  465,  598. 

 ,  lord  of.    See  Danyell. 

Ratteclyff.    See  Ratclyff. 
Raughton,  co.  Cumberland,  13. 
Raulyu,  liaule,  Simon,  109. 

 John  250. 

 ,  Richard,  385. 

Raunds,  co.  Northampton,  387. 
Raunsam,  in  Giiisues.  457. 
Raunstou.    See  Ravenstone. 
Raven,  Ravyn,  Thomas.  197,  378. 
Ravensden,  co.  Bedford,  191. 
Ravensthorpe,  co.  York,  10,  115.  460. 
Ravenstone,  Raunston,  co.  Buckingham,  255. 
 ,  priory  of,  343. 


764 


GENERAL  INDEX. 


Eavenstone,  convent  of,  332. 

 ,  John  Holt,  prior  of,  332. 

 Eustace  Barnard,  prior  of,  343. 

Eavenswath,  co.  York,  90,  215. 
Eavyn.    See  Eaven. 
Eavys,  Thomas,  590. 

Eawdon,  Nicholas,  prebendary  of  Bridgnorth, 
590. 

Rawe,  John,  171,  403. 
Rawelyn,  John,  201. 
Eawelyns,  John,  355. 
Eawlegh,  John,  57,  128,  129. 
Eawlet,  Nicholas,  46. 
Eawlyn,  John,  208. 

 ,  Richard,  2. 

 ,  Simon,  »23. 

Rawreth,  co.  Essex,  509. 

Rawyre.    See  Rathwire. 

Raychford,  Nicholas,  299. 

Raylegh,  Edward,  sheriff  of  Warwick  and 

Leicester,  136. 
Rayleigh,  Reylegh,  co.  Essex,  339. 
Eaylton,  Thomas,  214,  277. 
Eayne,  Little  Eeynes,  co.  Essex,  372. 
Eayne,  Eobert,  477. 

 ,  Thomas,  477. 

 ,  William,  215,  477. 

Eaynes.    See  Eeynes. 

Raynford,  Eeynford,  Eeynforth,  Henry,  28, 
625. 

 ,  Laurence,  220,  351,  407,  545,  606, 

613. 

 ,  ,  sheriff  of  Essex  and  Hertford, 

42. 

Raynold.    See  Reynold. 
Reading,  Redyng,  co.  Berks,  2,  80,  317,  436, 
596. 

 ,  mayor  of.    See  Quydhampton. 

 ,  Parliament  at,  239. 

 ,  charters  dated  at,  34,  63,  426,  478. 

Rearsby,  Eeresby  [co.  Leicester],  4,  81. 
Eechardson,  William,  214. 
Eedbourn,  Eedeburn,  co.  Lincoln,  183. 
Eedbournbury  [co.  Hertford],  286. 
Eedbridge,  Rudbrugge,    co.  Southampton, 
forest  of,  116. 

 ,  hundred  of,  116. 

Redclyff,  co.  Middlesex,  78. 
Reddon.    See  Redon. 

Rede,  Eeed,  Edmund,  37,  196,  246,  247,  285, 
295,  349,  472,  557,  608. 

 ,  Katharine  his  wife,  295. 

 ,  John,  226,  244,  288,  384,  525,  533. 

 Robert,  54. 

 ,  Simon,  201. 

 Thomas,  236. 

 ,  William,  292. 

Redeknape,  Eedknape,  Edmund,  197,  204, 
223,  255,  385. 

 ,  William,  256,  503. 


Eedemdyn.    See  Eedmayne. 
Eedeswortb,  Eedeworth,  Eichard,  547. 
Eedford.    See  Bedford. 
Eedgate,  William,  515. 
Eediche,  Henry,  86. 
Eedisplace,  co.  Wilts,  533. 
Eedknape.    See  Eedeknape. 
Eedknyght,  John,  49,331. 
Eedlyngton.    See  Ridlington. 
Redman,  Richard,  476. 
Redmayne,  Richard,  177,  635. 
Redmile,  Eedmyld,  co.  Leicester,  27,  517. 
Eedmire,  Eedmer,  co.  York,  1. 
Eedon,  Eeddon,  in  Brittany,  493. 
Eedyng.    See  Eeading. 

Eee,  Eoger,  22,  286,  353,  363,  405,  407,  492, 

494,  614,  622. 
 ,  ,  sheriff  of  Essex  and  Hertford, 

556. 

 ,  ,  escheator  in  Essex  and  Hert- 
ford, 556. 

 ,  sheriff  of  Norfolk  and  Suffolk, 

498,  656. 

..,  ,   ,  the  elder,  62,  530,  531. 

 ,  ,  the  younger,  62,  531. 

 ,  William,  62,  531. 

Eeed.    See  Rede. 

Reepham,  Eepheham,  co.  Norfolk,  191. 
Eegnier,  duke  of  Anjou,  571. 
Eeigate,  co.  Surrey,  442. 
Eekynghale.    See  Eickinghall. 
Eelyngton.    See  Eillington. 
Eemesbury.    See  Eamsbury. 
Eemon,  Jaquet,  333. 
Eemond,  Thomas,  74. 

Eempstone,  Eemston,  co.  Nottingham,  297. 

Eendcomb,  co.  Gloucester,  10. 

Eendlesham,  co.  Suffolk,  110. 

Eenham.    See  Eainham. 

Eenhold,  Eonhale,  co.  Bedford,  499,  507. 

Eenkyn,  John,  7,  8,253. 

Eennes,  in  Brittany,  521, 

Eenyll,  Thomas,  142. 

Eepheham.    See  Reepham. 

Eepingdon,  Ambrose,  chaplain  of  the  chantry 
of  St.  John  Baptist  by  St,  Mary  Alder  - 
mary  church,  London,  369,  395. 

Repton,  CO.  Derby,  10. 

 ,  in  Ashford,  co.  Kent,  274. 

Repyndon.    See  Eepingdon. 

Eepynghale.    See  Eippingale. 

Eeresby.    See  Eearsby. 

Eesby.    See  Eisby. 

Eescarrek,  Isabel,  390,  444. 

Resiburgh.    See  Risborough. 

Reskyngton.    See  Ruskington. 

Restell,  John,  145. 

Restormel,  Rostormall,  co.  Cornwall,  15". 
Restwold,  Richard,  222. 
 ,  Thomas,  608. 


GENERAL  INDEX. 


765 


Eetford,  co.  Nottingham,  243,  441,  466,  482. 

 ,  East,  440. 

Retherfeld.    See  Rotherfield. 
Eeueles.    See  Rivett's. 
Reuelet,  co.  Kent,  92. 
Reve,  John,  255. 
Revell,  John,  286. 
Rewele,  John,  5. 

 ,   ,  Alice  his  wife,  5. 

Rexon,  Rixyn  [in  Stogumber] ,  co.  Somerset, 

193,  194,  200,  330,  364,  522. 
Eeygate,  Stephen,  325. 
Reylegh.    See  Rayleigh. 
Reyner,  John,  286. 
Reynes.    See  Raj'ne. 
Reynes,  Raynes,  Thomas,  168,  607. 

Reynesthorp,  co.  Norfolk,  191. 

Reynforth.    See  Raynford. 

Reynham.    See  Rainham. 

Reynn.    See  Rhine. 

Reynold,  Raynold,  Henry,  194,  236. 

 John,  193,  194,  212. 

 ,  Philip,  160. 

 ,  Richard,  51,  78,  104,  405. 

 Thomas,  262. 

 William,  87,  104,  194. 

 ,   ,  Joan  his  wife,  87. 

Reynwell,  John,  509. 

Reyny,  John,  219. 

Rhine,  Reynn,  wine  of,  429. 

Rhodes,  the  grand  master  of,  232. 

Rhossili,  Russely,  co.  Glamorgan,  163. 

Rhuddlau,  charter  dated  at,  34. 

Rhydd,  Ryd,  co.  Worcester,  102. 

Ribston,  Ribstayn,  Little,  co.  York,  601. 

Richard,  John,  21. 

Richardby,  Richard,  214. 

Richard,  king  of  England,  586. 

Richard  I.,  charters  of,  136,  338,  364,  370, 
371,  376,  423,  425,  426,  478,  60J . 

Richard  II.,  11,  48,  50,  63,  82,  92,  94,  109, 
112,  127,  133,  136,  150,  152,  175,  186, 
210,  235,  239,  242,  280,  295,  315,  331, 
365,  389,  412,  420,  450,  455,  459,  467, 
586,  590. 

 ,  charters  of,  67,  164,  369,  42.5,  601. 

 ,  letters  patent  of,  13,  16,  63,  112,  115, 

121,  124,  134-136,  164,  188,  237,  267, 
358,  364,  371,  423,  459,  465,  478,  520, 
538,  539,  592,  601. 

 ,  great  roll  of,  130,'235. 

Richard,  duke  of  York,  the  king's  father,  22, 
42,  46,  48,  59,  67,  69,  79,  82,  89,  100, 
108,  119,  131,  153,  159,  162,  178,  184, 
192,  261 ,  275,  278,  304,  358,  361,  363, 
372,  394,  432,  437,  439,  447,471,  486, 
507,  522,  530,  531,  538,  543,  544,  563, 
564,  584,  597. 

 ,  letters  patent  of,  62. 

 burial  of,  592. 


Richard, duke  of  Gloucester,  the  king's  brother, 
69,  126,  128,  170,  179,  180,  192,  195, 
198,  219-221,  283,  284,  296,  317,  330, 
338,  345,  346,  348-353,  366,  408,  426, 
455,  464,  486,  507,  509,  513,  5.30,  550, 
556,  557,  564,  573,  583,  586,  607-638. 

 ,  chamberlain  of  Kngland,  262,  344. 

 ,  constable    of  England,    178,  307, 

439,  505,  511,  591. 

 ,  admiral   of  England,  Ireland  and 

Aquitaine,  52,  171,  184,  201,  439,  489, 
495. 

  chief  justice  of  North  Wales,  179, 

275. 

  chief  justice  of  South  Wales,  185, 

275. 

  chamberlain  of  South  Wales,  185, 

275. 

 ,  warden  of  the  west  marches  towards 

Scotland,  439. 
 ,  keeper  of  the  forests  beyond  Trent, 

338. 

 sheriff  of  Cumberland,  485,  556. 

 ,  grants  to,  94,  139,  179,  260,  266,  297. 

329,  466,  483,  519,  560. 
 ,  Anne  Lis  wife,  455,  507,  550, 

556,  557. 

Richard  de  Salopia,  duke  of  ^York,  the  king's 

son,  508,  592. 
Richard,  duke  of  Cambridge,  394. 
Richard,  Rychard,  John,  353,  432. 

 ,  Robert,  234. 

 ,  Thomas,  300. 

 of  Stable,  200. 

 ap  Thomas  ap  GriflBth,  360. 

  ap  Gwillm  Lloyd,  parson  of  Alves- 

cott,  333. 

Richard's  Castle,  Rycardiscastell,  co.  Hero- 
ford,  521. 

Richardson,  Rychardson,  John,  1,  442. 

 Robert,  591. 

 Thomas,  1. 

 William,  277. 

Riche,  Thomas,  182. 

  And  see  Ryche. 

Richemond,  Richard,  49. 
Richewode,  co.  Wilts,  533. 
Richmond,  Rychemond,  co.  York,  119,  239, 
457,  483,  486.  506,  513. 

 ,  honour  of,  242,  343,  529. 

  fee,  417. 

 ,  archdeaconry  of,  417. 

 ,  archdeacon  of.    See  Shirwood. 

Richyngwode,  John,  541. 

Rickinghall,  Hekyughale  by  Botesdale,  co. 

Suffolk,  149. 
Riclyf,  Ralph,  215. 
Rider,  William,  the  younger,  199. 
Ridge,  Ruge,  Rugge,  co.  Hertford,  10,  145. 
Ridgate,  Ridegate,  WiUiam,  587. 
Ridle,  Nicholas,  464. 
I  Ridlington,  Rcdlyngton,  co.  Rutland,  32,  137' 


766 


GENERAL  INDEX. 


Rightwyse,  Thomas,  498. 

 ,  William,  381. 

Kikman,  John,  parson  of  Hovekirke,  89. 
Kiland,  Thomas,  515. 
Eiley,  Elias,  545. 

Rillaton,    Rilleton    [in    Linkinhorne],  co. 

Cornwall,  467. 
Rillington,  Relyngton,  co.  York,  579. 
Ringslow,  Ryngeslowe,  co.  Kent,  hundred  of, 

240,  302. 

Ringstead,  Ryngstead,  co.  Northampton,  60. 
Ringwood,  Ryngwode    [co.  Southampton], 
209. 

Ripley,  Ryppley,  Richard,  9,  523. 
Ripen,  CO.  York,  15,  346,  600. 
Rippas,  Alice,  586. 

Rippingale,  Repynghale,  co.  Lincoln,  26,  385, 
517. 

Ripplyngham,  Robert,  parson  of  Chipstead, 
543. 

Rippon,  William,  28. 
Ripton  Regis,  co.  Huntingdon,  6,  132. 
Risborough,  Resiburgh,    co.  Buckingham, 
472. 

 ,  Princes,  472. 

Risby,  Resby,  co.  York,  253. 

Rise  in  Holdernesse,  co.  York,  483,  486,  487. 

Risebank,  Ruysbank,  Rysbanke  by  Calais, 
20,  204,  270,  271,  290,  388,  450,  513. 

Rising,  CO.  Norfolk,  512. 

Risington  Wyk,  Wyke  Rusydon,  co.  Glou- 
cester, 438,  461. 

Riskyngton.    See  Ruskington. 

Risshe,  Rysshe,  John,  208,  269,  372. 

Riston.    See  Ruston. 

Risyngcastell.    See  Castle  Rising. 

Rither,  William,  378,  580. 

 ,  ,  Sybil  his  wife,  378. 

 ..,  William,  the  second,  378. 

 ,   ,  the  third,  378. 

Rithiscourt,  co.  Wilts,  533. 

Riton,  483,  487. 

Rivelin,  in  Hallamshire,  co.  York,  439. 
River,  Ryver,  John,  77,  579. 
Rivett's  Reueles  in  Shimpliug,  co.  Suffolk, 
556. 

Rixyu.    See  Eexon. 
Robard,  Henry,  81. 

 ,  John,  546. 

 ,  ,  Agnes  his  wife,  546. 

Robdyn,  John,  104. 
Roberd,  John,  224,  473. 
Roberdes,  Richard,  148. 
Roberdys,  John,  82. 
Robert,  WiUiam,  4,  128,  157. 

 ,  son  of  Odo,479, 

 ap  Guillim  ap  Thomas,  442. 

Roberts,  Robertes,  Richard,  224,  32  0. 
Robertsbridge,  uo.  Sussex,  463. 


Robertson,  John,  203. 

 ,  Richard,  257. 

 ,  Robert,  146. 

Robessard,  Louis,  lord  of  Bourchier,  238. 

 ,  WilUam,  325. 

Robkyn,  Uavid,  4. 
Robson,  Richard,  214,  277. 
Robyn,  John,  197. 
Robyns.  John,  471. 

 ,  Richard,  317,  319,  354. 

 ,  Thomas,  144,  327,  553. 

 ,  WiUiam,  197. 

Robynson,  Robeuson,  James,  10. 

 ,  Joan,  215. 

 ,  John,  214,  215,  277. 

 ,  ,  the  elder,  286,  287. 

 ,   ,  the  younger,  286,  287. 

 ,  Richard,  275,  281,  286,  287,  860, 

442. 

 ,  Thomas,  212. 

 ,  William,  216,323. 

Rocelin, Master,  vice-chancellor  of  Richard!., 
328,  376. 

Roche,  CO.  York,  John,  abbot  of,  385. 

 le  Roche,  co.  Nottingham,  446. 

  Andelys,  in  France,  charters  dated 

at,  328,  371,  376,  601. 
Roche,  Joan,  194. 

 ,  John,  193,  194,  346. 

 Philip,  197. 

Rochelle,  wine  of,  378. 

Rochester,  Roucestre,  co.  Kent,  92,  238,  297, 

302,  325,  371,  496,  569. 

 ,  hundred  of,  302. 

 ,  mayor  of,  409. 

 ,  the  bishop  of  502. 

  And    see    Alcok ;    Rotheiham  j 

Russell. 

 ,  bishopric  of,  597. 

 ,  diocese  of,  93,  343,  589. 

 ,  cathedral  of,  prior  and  convent  of, 

370. 

 ,   ,  Simon,  prior  of,  370. 

 ,  charters  dated  at,  370,  561. 

 ,  hospital  of  St.  Bartholomew  by.  See 

Chatham. 

Rochford,  Racheford,  co.  Essex,  373,  426. 

 ,  hundred  of,  426,  525. 

Rockborn,  Rokebourne,  co.  Southampton,  32, 
33. 

Rockingham,  co.  Northampton,  599. 

 ,  forest  of,  599,  601. 

Rockland,  Rokelond,  co.  Norfolk,  515. 

  Tofts,  515. 

RocIyflF.    See  RouclyfiE. 
Rodborough,  co.  Gloucester,  577. 
Rodeney,  Edmund,  412. 
Rodelond,  William,  320. 
Roderham.    See  Rotherham. 
Rodes,  Robert,  317,  582. 


GENERAL  INDEX. 


767 


Koflmersham,  co.  Kent,  325,  447. 

Rodney,  Walter,  522. 

Rddsley,  Rodysley,  co.  Derby,  253. 

Rodys,  William,  rector  of  a  moiety  of  the 

church  of  Treswell,  396. 

 ,  ,  parson  of  Springthorpe,  396. 

Roger,  John,  6,  8,  33,  81,  92,  122,  158,  42fi, 

629. 

 ,  ,  sherifF  of  Southampton,  208. 

 ,   ,  vicar  of  Moreton,  160. 

 ,  Thomas,  177,  197,  201,  240,  250, 

581, 

 ,  William,  177. 

.........  ap  John,  152. 

 ap  Roger  Vaghan,  429. 

Rogers,  Henry,  the  younger,  196. 

 John,  53,  59,  196,  220,  262,  495,  571, 

577. 

 ,   ,  Alice  his  wife,  577. 

 ,  Thomiis,  118,  247,  351,  573.635. 

Rogger,  John,  82,  85,  88,  108,  109,  161,  218, 
226,  281,  374,  503. 

 ,  ,  Alice  his  wife,  109. 

 ,  Thomas,  164,  608. 

Rokebourne.    See  Rockboru. 
Rokeby.    See  Rugby. 
Rokele,  R.  de,  561. 
Rokeleyes,  Thomas,  34. 
Rokelond.    .See  Rockland. 
Rokes,  Rokys,  John,  263. 

 ,  Thomas,  56,  126,  196,  568,  584,  608. 

 ,  Walter,  257. 

Rokesley.    See  ]luxley. 
Rokley,  John,  47. 

 Robert,  47,  176,451,  528,  555. 

 ,  William,  528,  555. 

Rokynge.    See  Ruckiuge. 

Rokys.    See  Rokes. 

Rolff,  William,  188. 

Rolfife,  John,  435. 

Eollam,  Jacome,  509. 

Roller,  John,  303. 

Rollesham.    See  Rowsham. 

Rolleston,  Rowlstone,  co.  Nottingham,  106. 

 ,  CO.  Lincoln,  320. 

  And  see  Rolstone. 

Rolston,  CO.  Devon,  36. 
Rolstone,  Rolleston  in  Banwell,  co.  Somerset, 
72. 

Rolvenden,  co.  Kent,  259,  283. 
Romaldkirk,  co.  York,  215. 
Roma,  Marcellus  de,  474. 
Rombalde,  Thomas,  4. 

 ,  William,  4. 

 ,   ,  Marjory  his  wife,  4. 

Rome,  church  of,  179,  186,  206,  454,  470,  472, 
474,  597. 

 court  of,  317,  341,  368,  373,  ;393, 

415. 

Romford,  Rumfoid,  co.  Kssex,  78. 


Romney,  Ro.npney,  Rumney,  co.  Kent,  44, 

266,  282,  283,  290,  303,  463,  488. 
 ,  port  of,  496. 

 ship  called  The  Christopher  of,  282. 

 ,  Old,  CO.  Kent,  244,  283,  380,  546. 

  Marsh,  546,  547. 

Romsey,  co.  Southampton,  569. 

 ,  abbey  of,  339,  344. 

 ,  convent  of,  337. 

 Joan  Brigges,  abbess  of,  337. 

 ,  Elizabeth   Broke,  abbess,  of,  339, 

344. 

Ronehed,  Richard,  29 1 . 
Ronhale.  See  Kenhold. 
Roo,  John,  199,  253. 

 ,   ,  Margaret  his  wife,  253. 

 ,  Thomas,  154. 

Roos  in  Bradfield  Combust,  co.  Suffolk,  36. 
 Rosse,  CO.  York,  48,  437,  457,  458, 

529,  530. 
Roos,  Eleanor,  90,  460. 

 Giles,  325. 

 ,  Henry,  307,  558. 

 ,  John,  lord,  20,419. 

 ,   ,  Marjory  his  wife,  20,  324,  419. 

 ,  Richard,  169,  218,  245,  247,  249,  257, 

424,  432. 

 ,  Robert,  460. 

 ,  Thomas,  458,  459,  530. 

 ,  Marjory  his  wife,  458,  530. 

 Thomas,  fifth  lord  of  Roos  and  Hamc- 

lake,  506. 

 ,   ,  Beiitiice  his  wife,  506. 

 ,  Thomas,  ninth  lord,  86,  100. 

 ,  ,  Eleauor  his  wife,  86,  100. 

 Thomas,  tenth  lord,  17,  18,  20,24 

27,  36,  38,  40,  43,  47,  48,  70,  90,  lOo' 
125,294,441,461,  480,506.  ' 

 Philippahis  wife,  17,  47,  70,  90 

125. 

Roosebeck,  Rusbek,  co.  Lancaster,  456. 
Roper,  Alan,  285. 

 John,  302,  389. 

 Simon,  285. 

Ropers,  in  Bures  St.  ^Mary,  co.  Suffolk,  25. 
Ropsley,  Ropesley,  co.  Lincoln,  26,  291,  517. 
Ros,  Heury,  551. 

 Robert,  217,  222. 

Roscelin,  Master.    See  Rocelin. 
Roschebrook,  Eleanor  de,  372. 

 William  de,  372. 

 ,  Joan  his  wife,  372. 

Roscoff,  Rousgo  (in  Fiuistore),  in  Brittany, 
474. 

Rose,  John,  221,  253,  268. 

 ,  Richard,  257. 

 ,  William,  4,  171,  213. 

Rosenithon,  Roseneython  [in  St.  Keverne] 

CO.  Cornwall,  297,  560. 
Rosmoders,  Rosomodercs,  William,  58,  104. 


768 


GENERAL  INDEX. 


Eosneython.    See  Rosenithon. 
Eosogan,  co.  Cornwall,  280. 
Eosogan,  John,  280. 
Bouse,  Thomas,  298,  377,  399. 

 ,  William,  290,  494. 

Eosse.    See  Eoos. 

Eossher,  William,  165. 

Eossington,  Rosyngton,  co.  York,  103.] 

Eossisson,  James,  515. 

Eostormall.    See  Eestormel. 

Eoswory,  co.  Cornwall,  104. 

Eotby.    See  Ratby. 

Eote,  John,  4. 

Eotell,  John,  3. 

Roter,  Henry,  251. 

Kotheley,  Roger,  364. 

 ,  William,  355. 

Rothemell.    See  Rathmell. 
Eotheney,  Edmund,  264. 
Eotherfield,  Retherfeld,  co.  Sussex,  384. 
Eotherham,  Eoderham,  co.  York,  73,  244, 
585. 

Eotherham,  John,  167,  268,  428,  446,  570, 
607. 

 Master  Eoger,  317,  609. 

 ,   ,  warden  of  the  King's  Hall, 

Cambridge,  367. 

 ,  Master  Thomas,  keeper  of  the  privy 

seal,  19,  42,  132,  190,  363,  446. 

 ,  ,  provost  of  the  college  of  Wing- 
ham,  42. 

 ,   ,  chancellor    of  Cambridge 

University,  609. 

 ,  ,  bishop  of  Eochester  [1468- 

1471],  132,  190,  332,  375,  609,  618. 

 ,  ,  bishop  of  Lincoln  [1472-1480] 

and  chancellor,  329,  330,  332, 342,  343, 
359,363,  375,  392,  400,  422,  446,  450, 
462,  472,  475,  485,  517,  519,  523,  530, 
538,  540,  542,  548,  583,  594,  597,  607, 
609,'617,;619-621,  623,  625-627. 

 ,  William,  309. 

Eotherwick,  co.  Southampton,  189. 

Eothur,  Robert,  501. 

Eothwell,  CO.  Northampton,  202,  386. 

Rotour,  Eobert,  130. 

Eoucestre.    See  Eochester. 

Rouclyff,  Brian,  55,  408,  593,  638. 

 ,  third  baron  of  the  Exchequer, 

23,  63,  229,  258,  420,  523,  585. 

 Guy,  638. 

 ,  John,  601. 

 ,  ,  Margaret  his  wife,  601. 

Eouehede,  Eichard,  27 1 . 
Eouen,  393. 

 ,  charter  dated  at,  538. 

Rouf,  Brigeucius,  197. 
RoufFord.    See  EufPord. 
Roughton,  CO.  Norfolk,  34, 191. 
  Holm,  257. 


Eouley,  John,  385. 

 ,  Thomas,  436. 

Eounhed,  Eichard,  291. 
Rous,  Gilbert,  104. 

 ,  Henry,  263. 

 ,  John,  152,  344,  345. 

 ,  ,  the  younger,  246,  634. 

 ,  William,  228,237. 

Rousgo.    See  RoscofiF. 
Routhe,  Brian,  199. 

 ,  William,  468. 

Roux,  John  le,  521. 

Rowe,  John,  70,  71,  301,  407,  618. 

Rowelond,  John,  171. 

Eowell,  Thomas,  610. 

Eowley,  co.  Stafford,  242. 

 CO.  Wilts,  466. 

Eowlond,  Simon,  2. 
Rowlstone.    See  Eolleston. 
Eowsham,  Eollesham,  Rulsam,  co.  Bucking- 
ham, 56. 
Rowthole.    See  Ruthall. 
Roxby,  CO.  Lincoln,  385. 
Roxton,  John,  prior  of  Dunstable,  309. 
Royall.    See  Ryall. 
Roydon,  co.  Essex,  12. 

Royston,  co.  Cambridge,  prior  and  convent  of, 
423. 

 ,00.  Hertford,  75. 

Ruckinge,  Rokynge,  co.  Kent,  283,  321,  546. 

Rudbrugge.    See  Eedbridge. 

Rudby,  Roger,  37. 

Rudge,  Rugge,  co.  Salop,  274. 

Eudhale,  Nicholas,  parson  of  Horsford,  267. 

Rudham,  East,  Estrudham,  co.  Norfolk,  191. 

 ,  West,  191. 

Eudorddwy,  co.  Flint,  210. 
Eudsten,  Henry,  206. 
Eudston,  Eobert,  498. 

Eudynge,  J ohn,  archdeacon  of  Northampton, 
485. 

Eufford,  Eoufford,  co.  Nottingham,  abbot  of, 
244. 

 ,  William,  abbot  of,  410,  479. 

EufiFord,  John,  248. 

 ,  Eobert,  285,  286,  363,  608. 

 ,  Thomas,  363. 

Eugby,  Eokeby,  co.  Warwick,  5. 
Euge.    See  Eidge. 
Eugge.    See  Eidge  ;  Eudge. 
Eugge,  John,  218,  274. 

 ,   ,  escheator  in  the  county  of 

Worcester,  211. 
Euggewey,  William,  582. 
Eughbergh,  co.  Wilts,  hundred  of,  587. 
Rughton,  William,  122,  595. 
Rukeby,  Henry,  215. 

 ,  Thomas,  215. 

Rulsam.    See  Rowsham, 


GENERAL  INDEX. 


769 


Eumford.    See  Romford. 

Rumney.    See  Romney. 

Rumsey,  John,  404. 

Rumwode,  co.  Nottingham,  310,  488. 

Rusbek.    See  Roosebeck. 

Rushall,  Rusteshall,  co.  Wilts,  466. 

Rushe,  John,  218. 

Rushford,  Russhworth,  co.  Norfolk,  562. 
Rushton,  Russheton,  co.  Northampton,  60. 
Rushworth  [co.  Norfolk],  college  of  St.  John 

Evangelist,    master    or  warden  and 

brethren  of,  308. 
Ruskington,   Reskyngton    Riskyngton,  co. 

Lincoln,  34,  310,  523. 
Eusse,  John,  387. 
Russell,  Alice,  66. 

 ,  Elizabeth,  262. 

 ,  Henry,  8. 

 John,  152,  298,  377,  552,  557,  5G3. 

 ,  ,  bishop  of  Rochester  [1476- 

1480],  597. 
...   ,   ,    canon     of    St.  Stephen's, 

Westminster,  589. 
 ,  prebendary   of  Cobhambury, 

589. 

 ,    chaplain  of  Freckenham,  589. 

 ,  keener  of  the  privy  seal,  451, 

586,  597. 

 ,   ,  second  in  the  office  of  the  privy 

seal,  151,  280,  379. 

 Lawrence,  333. 

 ,  Nicholas,  531. 

 ,  Philippa,  4. 

 ,  Richard,  254. 

 ,  Robert,  249,  531,  550. 

Russely.    See  Rhossili. 

Busshe,  CO.  Dublin,  20,  279,  419. 

Rusteshall.    See  Rushall. 

Ruston,  Riston,  co.  York,  457,  529. 

Ruthail,  Rowthale,  co.  Salop,  134. 

Rutland,  countv  of,  87,  88,  195,218,  290,313, 

329,  348",  350,  451,  462,  466,  492,  496, 

528,  540,  555,  562. 
 ,   .sheriff  of,  350,  451,  492,  528, 

555. 

 ,  escheator  in,  39,  271,  332,  475. 

  And  see  Ghambrc  ;  Palmer. 

 ,   subsidy  and  ulnage  of  cloth  in, 

329,  348. 

 ,  ,  commissions  of  the  peace  in, 

626. 

 ,  forest  of,  451,  528,  555. 

 ,  earl  of.    See  Edmund. 

Rutter,  John,  497,  526,  572. 

Ruxley,  Rokesley,  co.  Kent,  hundred  of,  301. 

Ruyton,  Thomas,  20. 

 William,  502. 

Ryall,  Royall,  co.  Northumberland,  180. 
Ryarsh,  Ryherssh,  co.  Kent,  593,  594. 
Ryby,  John,  377. 

Rycardiscastell.    See  Richard's  Castle, 
y  96186, 


Rychard.    See  Richard. 
Rychardby,  Richard,  277. 
Rychardson.    See  Richardson. 
Ryche,  Isabel,  202,  224. 

  And  see  Riche. 

Rychemond.    See  Richmond. 

Rycher,  Ralph,  303. 

Rychere,  .John  582. 

Rycote,  Great,  co.  Oxford,  399. 

Ryd.    See  Rhydd. 

Ryder,  Robert,  331. 

Rydon,  co.  Surrey,  308. 

Rydshefe,  Adam,  parson  of  Camp,  538. 

Rye,  276. 

 CO.  Kent,  319. 

 ,  CO.  Sussex,  303,  448. 

 ,  port  of,  496. 

 ship  called  le  Marie  of,  217. 

Rygby,  Nicholas,  309. 

 ,  Thomas,  141,  161,  509. 

Ryggeman,  Walter,  142. 
Ryggeway,  William,  582. 
Rygon,  Edmund,  499. 
Rygot,  William,  76. 

 ,  Ellen  his  wife,  76. 

Ryherssh.    See  Ryarsh. 
Ryke,  Richard,  77,  109,  141. 
Rylandes,  Nicholas,  9,  74. 
Rylc,  Robert,  224. 
Ryley,  John,  287,  382. 

 ,  Thomas,  215. 

Rymplc,  Gilbert  do  la,  83. 
Ryng,  John,  202. 

 Roger,  202. 

Ryngebourn,  Robert,  57. 
Ryngeslowe.    See  Ringslow. 
Kyugeston,  John,  405. 

 Thomas,  144. 

Riiigland,  Rynglond,  co.  Norfolk,  191. 

Rynniour,  co.  .Somerset,  187. 

Rype,  CO.  Sussex,  412. 

Rypon,  John,  182,  239,  514. 

Ryppley.    See  Riploy. 

Rypton.    See  Repton. 

Rysbank.    See  Riscbank. 

Ryseburgh,  Robert,  abbot  of  Missenden,  288. 

Rysley,  John,  534. 

 ,  Richard,  141,  224. 

Rysshe.    See  Risshe. 
Rysyng,  Richard,  78. 
Ryther,  co.  York,  432. 
Ryver,  Bastilot  de,  49. 

  And  see  River. 

Ryvers,  John,  120,  121. 

 ,  Thomas,  102. 

 Walter,  369. 

 ,  earl  of.    See  Wydevillc. 

Ryxen.    See  Rexou. 

S  C 


770 


GENERAL  INDEX. 


S. 

Sabresford,  co.  Essex   (?  Sawbridgeworth, 

CO.  Hertford),  173. 
Sachefeld,  John,  217. 

Sacheverell,  Saucheverell,  Ealph,  408,  410, 
479. 

Sacheyyle,  John,  74. 
Sadberg  [co.  Durham],  23. 
Sadde,  Nicholas,  500. 
Sadeler,  Sadiller,  Alan,  2,  143. 

 ,  George,  287,  431. 

 ,  Thomas,  602. 

Safrey,  Richard,  38. 

Sage,  Ivonnait  le,  201,  217,  221. 

 ,  Thomas,  578. 

Saghe.    See  Saige. 
Saham,  co.  Norfolk,  327. 
Saige,  Saghe,  Thomas,  286,  287. 

Saint  .    See  St.  . 

Saiut  Morice,  Perrenot  de,  201,  217,  212. 
Salcombe,  Saltcombe  [co.  Devon],  ship  called 

le  Davy  of,  114. 

 ,  port  of,  602. 

Salden,  co.  Buckingham,  309. 

Sale,  Thurstan,  580. 

Salesbury,  Salisbury,  Richard,  213. 

,  Roger,  194,349,  405,  437,  570,  571, 

623. 

Salewse,  Robert,  591. 

Salford,  co.  Oxford,  375. 

Salisbury.    See  Salesbury. 

Salisbury,  co.  Wilts,  57,  76,  80,  84,  90,  91, 

101,  128,  141,  282,  305,  321,  371,  389, 

435,  475,  496,  505,  566,  595. 

 ,  charter  dated  at,  459. 

 ,  letters  patent  dated  at,  204,  207, 

209,  210,  217,  218,  626. 

 ,  subsidy  and  uluage  of  cloth  in,  233. 

 mayor  of,  371. 

  And  see  Port. 

 ,  earl  of.    See  Neville. 

 ,  diocese  of,  15,  119,  230,  234,31.3,359, 

390,  443,  523,  544,  554,  566. 

 ,  archdeacon  of.    See  Eure. 

 ,  bishop  of,  371. 

 ,  chancellor  of  the  order  of  the 

Garter,  554. 

 ,   And  see  Beauchamp;  Martival. 

 ,  cathedral  of,  566. 

 ,         ,  close  of,  160. 

 ,  ,  Eustace,  dean  of,  371. 

 ,  dean  of.  See  Kemer ;  Gold- 
well  ;  Davyson. 


Salisbury,  cathedral  of.  dean  and  chapter  of, 

160,  372,  400. 

 ,   ,  prebend  in,  141. 

 ,  ,  chapel  of  Jesu8  and  St.  Mary 

in,  311. 

 ,   ,  chapel  of  Holy  Trinity  and 

St.  Mary  in,  311. 
Salkeld  [co.  Cumberland],  483,  486,  487. 
Salkeld,  Bartholomew,  277. 

 ,  John,  214,  277. 

 ,  Richard,  25,  137,  214,  277,  610. 

 Thomas,  214,  277. 

 ,  William,  214. 

 ,  ,  the  elder,  277. 

 ,  the  younger,  277. 

Salle  [co.  Norfolk],  498. 
Salle,  Thomas,  442. 
Salman,  Thomas,  578. 
 ,  Walter,  179. 

Salmon,  John,  bishop  of  Norwich  [1299- 

1325],  459,  539. 
Salmon  Leap  [co.  Dublin],  458,  598. 
Salop,  county  of ,  55,  58,  70,  99,  103,  191,  195, 

219,  247,  249,  257,  281,  284,  289,  294, 

329,  348,  398,  400,  407,  411,  429,  430, 

462,  492,  496,  574,  590,  605. 
 ,   ,  sheriff  of,  29,  159,  183,  219, 

232,  242,  284,  407,  429,  492,  590. 

 ,   ,  escheator  in,  333,  467,  598. 

  And  see  Harnage ;  Laken. 

 ,  outlawries  in,  2,  4,  80,  143. 

 ,   ,  siubsidy  and  ulnage  of  cloth  in, 

329,  348,  478. 
 ,  ,  commissions  of  the  peace  in, 

627. 

Salph  End,  Salwho,  in  Renhold,  co.  Bedford, 
499. 

Saltash,  co.  Cornwall,  145. 
Salter,  William,  148. 

Salter's  Lode,  Walterslode,  co.  Norfolk,  169, 
170. 

Saltfleetby,  CO.  Lincoln,  43,  122,  508. 
Saltflethhavyn,  co.  Lincoln,  508. 
Salthouse,  co.  Norfolk,  343. 
Saltmersshe,  Edward,   251,  407,  427,  428, 
636. 

 ,  William,  353. 

Saltprestou.    See  Prestoupans. 

Saluse,  Robert,  591. 

Salvan,  John,  102,  103,  637. 

Salveyn,  Walter,  215. 

Salwey,  Humphre}',  496,  526,  C36. 

Saiwho.    See  Salph  End. 

Saman,  John,  317-319. 

Sambroke,  Sanbroke,  John,  286,  409,  460. 

 ,  Roger,  56,  393. 

Samford,  Stamford,  co.  Suffolk,  hundred  of, 
590. 

Sammys,  William,  254. 
Sampford.    ■See  Sandfor' 


GENERAL  INDEX. 


771 


Sampford  Courtenay,  co.  Devon,  23,  61,  176, 

189,  280,  457,  518,  557. 

 Peverell,  co.  Devon,  61,  339,  343. 

 Spyne,  co.  Devon,  578. 

Sampson,  Samson,  John,  403,  404. 

 Thomas,  605. 

 ,  William,  336. 

Samwell,  John,  256,  406,  420,  500. 

Sanbroke.    See  Sambroke. 

Sancle,  Nicholas,  552. 

Sanctingfeld  by  Wissant,  hospital  of,  398. 

 ,   ,  Peter  Canerell,  master  of,  398. 

Sancto  Laurencio,  Kobeit  de,  lord  of  Uowth, 

193. 

Sandal,  co.  York,  79,  261. 
Sandeford,  Dame  Elizabeth,  77. 

 Thomas,  288,  635. 

Sandeland,  Thomas,  159. 
Sandes,  John,  315. 

 William,  53,  56,  351,  405,  429,  524, 

629. 

Sandewey,  John,  143. 

Sandford,  Sampford,  Saunford,  co.  Oxford, 
14,  17. 

 ,  Sondeford,  co.  Salop,  192. 

Sandford,  Brian,  e.scheator  of  Lincoln,  412. 
Sandiacre,  co.  Nottingham,  363. 
Sandon  on  the  Hill,  co.  Hertford,  255. 
Sandon,  John,  43G. 

Sandwich,  28,  87,  108,  127,  168,276,282,291, 
305,  317-319,  325,  340,  354,  453,  485, 
493,  525. 

 ,  mayor  of.    See  Bicrtou  ;  Cook. 

 ,  mayor  and  barons  of,  362. 

 port  of,  11,  34,  59,  83,  108,  110,  126, 

132,  153,  160,  165,  167.  212,  213,  221, 
230,  231,  245,  259,  2G2,  268,  269,  273, 
282,  319,  338,  340,  341,  375,  393,  394, 
445,  453,  474,  478,  493,  495,  496,  521, 
532,  537,  560,  565,  587,  592,  600. 

 ship  called  la  Marie  of,  605. 

Sans,  Sauns,  John,  422. 

 ,  Peter,  205,  273,  281,  378,  422. 

San  Sebastian,  in  Spain,  559. 

Sant,  John,  abbot  of  Abingdon,  136. 

 ,  William,  abbot  of  Abingdon,  115, 

123. 

Santon,  John,  407. 

Sapcot,  Sapcote,  John,  406,  617,618. 

 ,  Richard,  5,  199,  350,  617,  627. 

Sapcotes,  John,  564. 
 ,  Richard,  485. 

Sapperton,  Sapirton,  Sapurton,  co.  Lincoln, 

26,  517. 
Saracens,  189. 
Sarger,  John,  72. 

 ,  Isabel  his  wife,  72. 

Sarsden,   Seresden,    co.    Warwick  (^rectius 

Oxford),  323. 
Sarura,  Old,  co.  Wilts,  234,  493. 
 ,  New.    Set'  Salisbury. 


Saucheverell.    See  Sacheverell. 
Saunder,  Christopher,  556. 

,  ,  John,  abbot  of  Sherborne,  558. 

 ,  Richard,  36. 

Saunders,  Saundres,  John,  168,  212. 

 ,  Thomas,  546. 

 ,  William,  393. 

Saundertou,  Saunterdon,  co.  Buckingham,  471, 
472. 

Saundre,  Nicholas,  87. 
Saunford.    See  Sandford. 
Sauns.    See  Sans. 
Saunterdon.    See  Saunderton. 
Savage,  John,  490.  497,  524.  526,  372. 

 Robert,  380. 

Savan,  John,  319. 
Savile.    See  Sayvile. 
Sawbridgeworth.    See  Sabresford. 
Sawe,  William,  78. 
Sawele,  Sawle,  John,  356,  377. 
Sawge,  Thomas,  493. 
Sawenders,  Richard,  4. 
  ,  Thomas,  4. 

Sawston,  Saxton,  co.  Cambridge,  297,  560. 
Sawyer,  John,  142,  326. 

 ,  Richard.  142. 

Saxmondham,  Agnes,  6,  7. 

 ,  William,  6,  7. 

Saxton.    See  Sawston. 

Say,  John,  12,  100,114,  123,  157,  182,  195, 
199,  205,  244,  250,  262,  346,  350,  366, 
373,  407,  446,  448,  532,  582,  603,  616. 

 keeper  of  the  great  wardrobe, 

597. 

 Dan  John,  abbot  of  Bermondsey,  387, 

390. 

 John,  the  elder,  218. 

 the  younger,  218. 

 Leonard,  446,  448. 

 ,  Thomas,  158,  406,  608. 

 ,  William,  182,  205,  594. 

 ,  ,  Genevieve  his  wife,  594. 

 ,   ,  escheator  of   Somerset  and 

Dorset,  592. 

 ,  W.  de,  661. 

 ,  lord  of.    See  Clynton ;  Fenys. 

Saycok,  William,  485. 

Sayer,  James,  72. 

 ,  John,  8,  326. 

 Juliana,  72. 

 ,  Thomas,  548. 

Saylok,  Thomas,  72. 

Sayntloger.    See  St.  Leger. 

Sayntloo.    See  St.  Lo. 

Saynton,  Seynton,  John,  202,  285,  286,  625. 

 ,  escheator  of  the  county  of  Lin- 
coln, 595. 

Sayvile,  Alice,  310. 

 ,  John,  199,  261,  349,  408,  638. 

 ,  William,  408,  638. 

3  C  2 


772 


GENERAL  INDEX. 


Scalard,  German,  544. 

Scalby,  George,  320. 

Scales,  Gatescales,  co.  Cumberlaad,  13. 

 ,  CO.  Lancaster,  A56. 

 ,  in  Guysnes,  313. 

Scalthwayterigg,  co.  Westmoreland,  531. 

Scampston  [co.  York],  206. 

Scarborough,  Scardeburgh,   co.  York,  164, 

201,  217,  221,  282,  286,  287,  322,  382, 

471,  493,  507,  578. 
 ,  Friars  Minor  of,  George  Danby, 

prior  of,  578. 
Scarburgh,  Ei chard,  323. 
Scarce,  Robert,  303. 
Scargill,  Thomas,  248. 

 ,  William,  638. 

Scarle,  John  de,  371. 

Scarlet,  Thomas,  98,  234. 

Scarsdnle,  Scarvesdale,  Skaresdale,  co.  Derby, 

442,  455,  507. 
Schellem,  Nicholas,  605. 
SchervngtoD.    See  Sherrington. 
Schiatis,  Bartholomew,  322. 
Schryvenham.    See  Shrivenhara, 
Schytlanger.    See  Shutlanger. 
Sclaustou.    See  Slawton. 
Scobard,  John,  255. 
Scobehill,  John,  60. 
Scoles,  Eobert,  361. 
Scolte,  John,  491. 

Scorby,  Scoreby,  co.  York,  483,  486,  487. 
Scorin,  Thomas,  436. 

Sco  Kuston,  Skouryston,  co.  Norfolk,  385. 
Scot,  Scott,  Scotte,  John,  18,  32,  33,  55,  70, 

127,  162,  192,  195,  196,  199,  219,  221, 

283,  285,  288,  366,  376,  393,  407,  463, 

474,  551,  571,  608,  618. 
 ,  lieutenant  of  Dover  Castle  and 

the  Cinque  Ports,  206. 

 ,  John  le,  earl  of  Chester,  35. 

 ,  Kichard,  431. 

 ,  William,  501. 

 ,   ,  Joan  his  wife,  501. 

Scotby  [co.  Cumberliind],  483,  486,  487. 
Scotforth  [co.  Lancaster],  334,  531. 
Scotland,  Soots,  25,  26,  84,  159,  162,  189, 

299,  392,  409,  466,  536,  554,  555,  596. 

 ,  king  of.    -See  Balliall ;  James. 

 ,  marches  of,  392. 

 ,  middle  marches  of,  450,  545,  591. 

 ,  warden    of.       See  Multon 

Percy. 

 ,  east  marches  of,  313,  341,  450,  545, 

591. 

  ,  ,  warden    of.      See    Multon  ; 

Percy. 

 ,  west  marches  of,  439. 

 ,  warden  of.    See  Richard. 

 ,   ,  lieutenant  of.    See  Parr. 

Scotneyfco   in   Cumbcrwor.th,  co.  Lincoln, 
508. 


Scratby,  Scroweteby,  co.  Norfolk,  422. 
Scr.ayingham,  co.  York,  89,  173,  207,  504, 
Serene.    See  Skrene. 
Screvelby.    See  Scrivelsby. 
Screveton,  Skreton,  co,  Nottingham,  501. 
Scrivelsby,  Skrevelby,  Screvilby,  co.  Lincoln, 
297,  508. 

Scriven,  Scryveu,  co.  York,  55,  593. 
Scrope,  Lescrope,  Elizabeth,  ladj-,  258. 

 ,  Geoffrey,  98. 

 ,  Henry,  justice  of  the  Bench,  465. 

 ,  John,  252,  349,  390,  609. 

 ,,  ,  lord  of  Bolton,  170,  190,  209, 

245,  248,  285,  462,  529,  637. 

 ,   ,  of  Upsale,  637. 

 ,  Richard,  207,  218,  260. 

 ,   ,  bishop  of  Carlisle  [1464-1468], 

17,  84. 

 ,   ,  bishop  of  Coventry  and  Ijich- 

field  [1386-1398],  425. 

 ,  Thomas,  200,  582. 

 ,   ,  of  Masham,  582,  583. 

 ,   the  younger,  599. 

 ,   ,  the  elder,  599. 

 ,  ,  Elizabeth  his  wife,  599. 

Scroweteby.    See  Scratby. 
Scrutiny,  controller  of,  230,  269,  372. 

 surveyor  of,  166,  269,  566. 

Scudamore,  Skydmore,  John,  454,  535,  616. 

 ,  Philip,  224. 

 ,  Thomas,  249. 

Scull.    See  Skull. 

Scullok,  Skollok,  John,  214,  277. 

Scutford,  Thomas,  7. 

Scutt,  John,  541. 

Scylby,  Henry,  500. 

Scyrefhotou.    See  Sheriff  Hutton. 

Seaford,  Seford,  co.  Sussex,  192. 

Seal,  Sele,  co.  Kent,  41,  362. 

Seamer,  Semer,  Seymer,  co.  York,  279,  541. 

Seaton,  Seton,  co.  York,  17,  90,  125,  423. 

Seavington,    Sevenhampton     Denys,  co. 

Somerset,  95. 
Seboll,  Sebo,  John,  307,  599. 
Secole,  Robert,  515. 

Sedgeberrow,  Segebarowe,  co.  Worcester,  21. 

Sedgebrook,  Segbroke,  co.  Lincoln,  88. 

Sedlegh,  James,  301. 

See,  Martin  at,  199,  316. 

Seething,  Sethyng,  co.  Norfolk,  191. 

Seford.    See  Seaford. 

Segbroke.    See  Sedgebrook. 

Segebarowe.    See  Sedgeberrow. 

Segliston.    See  Sigglesthorne. 

Segrave,  Nicholas,  242. 

 William,  225. 

Segrym,  John,  318. 

Seinclere,  John,  60. 

Seinclowe,  John,  218. 

Seint  Johanne  de  Luso,  Martin  de,  366, 


GENERAL  INDEX. 


773 


Seintjohu.    See  St.  Johu. 
Seintjuste.    See  St.  Just. 
Seintleger.    .See  St.  Leger. 
Selake.    See  Sellake. 
Seland.    See  Zeeland. 
Selanger.    See  St.  Leger. 
Selby,  Shelby,  co.  York,  115,  179,  307,  419, 
4.52. 

 ,  St.  German's  monastery,  John,  abbot 

of,  145. 
Selby,  William,  413. 
Sele.    See  Seal. 

Sellake,  Seylake,  by  Ilalbcrton,  co.  Dovon, 
156. 

Sellowe,  William,  301. 
Selly,  Davifl,  145. 
Sellyng,  John,  219. 
Selonge,  Edmund,  241. 
Selowe,  John,  574. 

Selside,  Selshede,  co.  Westmoreland,  532. 
Selston,  CO.  Nottingham,  437. 
Seuian,  John,  75,  595,  C26. 

 ,  Richard,  21. 

Seraer.    See  Searaer. 
Semer,  Thomas,  2. 
Seuaugr,  Johu,  119. 
Sendirkase,  in  Picardy,  125. 
Sentbreak.    See  St.  Breok. 
Sent  Id.    See  St.  Ivcs. 
Sent  Kevcran.    See  St.  Kcveruc 
Sent,  John.    See  St.  John. 
Senycle,  John,  320. 

Sepyshede,  John,  abbot  of  St.  Mary  de  Pratis, 

Leicester,  475. 
Serego,  Serigo,  Master  Dominic  de,  physician 

of  the  king  and  queeu,  336,  512,  555. 
Seresden.    See  Sarsdeu. 
Sergeant,  Agnes,  3. 
Sergeaunt,  Kobcrt,  525. 

 ,  Thomas,  132. 

 ,  AVilliara,  540. 

Sergeauntson,  Thomas,  378. 
Scrger,  John,  406. 

Serjeants  at  arms,  appointments  of,  31,  37, 
40,  41,  86,  92,  98,  100,  124,  182,  184, 
237,  261,  263,  265,  273,  281,  296,  337, 
343,  393,  452,  460,  461,  504,  565,  590. 

  at  law,  appointments  of,  38,  51,  193. 

Serle,  Henry,  433. 

 ,  John,  421,  433,  538. 

,.   ,   Nicholas,  chaplain  of  '  Mortymers 

Chauntry '  in  Chichester  cathedral, 
294,  296. 

 ,  Thomas,  538. 

Serne,  Edmund,  407. 

Serron,  John,  521. 

Serteyn,  William,  148. 

Sessay,  co.  York,  142. 

Setcryngton.    See  Settrington. 

Sethyng.    See  Seething. 


Setliyiig,  Henry,  master  of  the  college  of 

Sudbury,  320. 
Seton.    See  Seatou. 

 ,  in  Scotland,  448. 

Seton,  Alexander,  448. 

Settrington,  Seteryngton,  co.  York,  6. 

Seuester,  Sewyster,  William,  325,  382,  435. 

Sevenoaks,  co.  Kent,  77,  362. 

Sevenhampton  Denys.    See  Seavington. 

Sever,  Master  Henry,  dean  of  Uridguorth,  276. 

Severn  river,  84,  168,  354. 

Severnstoke,  CO.  Worcester,  470. 

Sevester.    See  Seuester. 

Seville,  471. 

Seviugton,  John,  368. 

Sewall,  Nicholas,  236. 

Seward,  John,  504. 

Sewardsley,    Sewrisley,    co.  Northampton, 

priory  of,  190. 
Sewell,  John,  400. 

 ,  ,  Margaret  his  wife,  400. 

 Matilda,  400. 

Sewhall,  John,  warden,  of  the  college  of 
vicars,  clerks,  and  choristers  of  the 
chapel  of  St.  Stephen,  Westminster, 
150. 

Sewrisley.    See  Sewardsley. 
Sewyster.    See  Seuester. 
Sexteu,  Thomas,  354. 
Seylake.    See  Sellake. 
Seymer.    See  Seamer. 
Seymor,  John,  522. 

Seymour,  John,  warden  of  the  hospital  of 
St.  John  IJaptist,  Occleve,  375. 

 ,  ,  prebendary  of  Wmdsor,  303. 

 Thomas,  218. 

Seymour,  lord  of.    See  Zouche. 

Seyncre  in  Vermandois,  in  France,  583. 

Seynt   See  St.  . 

Seyntclere  Maner,  co.  Buckingham,  309. 

Seyntcryde.    See  Creed. 

Seynt  Kateryns  Mede,  526. 

Seyntlcr,  John,  cscheator  in  the  county  of 
Kent,  312. 

Seyutmarybures.    See  IJures  St.  Mary. 

Seynt  Morys,  Nicholas  de,  333. 

Sejuton.    See  Saynton. 

Seyntuaryburgh.    See  Uurgh. 

Seynt  Ye.    See  St.  Ives. 

Shaa,  Edmund,  511,  577. 

 ,  sheriflF  of  London,  546. 

  And  see  Shawe. 

Shackerstone,  Shakestou,  co.  Leicester,  81, 
142. 

Shadet,  William,  575. 
Shadwcll,  CO.  Norfolk,  562. 
Shaftesbury,  co.  Dorset,  204,  242. 

 ,  abbess  and  convent  of,  242. 

Shafteshaies,  co.  DevoD,  343. 
1  Shaftholme,  co.  York,  477. 


774 


GENERAL  INDEX. 


Shakeston.    See  Shackerstone . 

Shalbourn,  ChaUlebourue,  Shaldebourne,  co. 

Berks,  84,  255. 
Shaledon,  John,  201. 

Shamwt'll,  Shamell,  co.  Kent,  hundred  of, 
300. 

Shanke,  John,  515. 
Shapeoombe,  co.  Dorset,  327. 
Shapharowe.    See  Sharpharow. 
Sbapley,  Robert,  502. 

Shardelowes,   Sherdlowes  in   Fulburn,  co. 

Cambridge,  480. 
Sharp,  Sharpe,  Christopher,  382. 
 ,   ,  escheator  in  the  county  of 

York,  335. 

 ,  Edmund,  147. 

 ,  Elizabeth,  118,  119. 

 ,  Henry,  171,  277,  307,  509. 

 ,  ,  protbonotary  of  Cliancery,  230, 

397. 

 ,  John,  145,  346,  431,  567. 

 ,  Nicholas,  248,  614. 

 ,   ,  receiver  general  of  the  duchy 

of  Lancaster,  165,  178. 

 ,  Eichard,  301,  346. 

 ,  Thomas,  316,  488,  489,  495. 

 ,  William,  501. 

Sharper,  William,  353. 
Sharpharow,  Richard,  215,  277. 

 ,  Robert,  214. 

 Roland,  277. 

  ..,  Thomas,  215. 

Sharpies,  Sharpule,  co.  Lancaster,  141. 
Sharpuls,  Robert,  prebendary  of  St.  Asaph, 

515. 

 ,  ,  master  of  the  hospital  of  St. 

Leonard,  Stoke,  585. 
Shavsted  by  Rochester,  co.  Kent,  371. 
Shaw,  CO.  Wilts,  533. 
Shav/e,  Christopher,  580. 

 ,  Edmund,  139. 

  And  see  Shaa. 

Shawedon,  William,  2. 
Shearing,  Sheryng,  co.  Essex,  12. 
Sheen,  co.  Surrey,  64,  348. 

house  of  Jesus  of  Bethlehem,  prior 

and  convent  of,  467. 
 ,  .,  William  Wildy,  prior  of,  434, 

436,  467,  582. 
Sheepshead,  Shepeshede,  co.  Leicester,  26, 

517. 

Sheepwash,  Shepeswasshe,  co.  Devon,  24,  45. 
Shefield,  Shefeld,  Robert,  200,  251,  253,  289, 

352,  354,  378,  427,  428,  490,  518,  523, 

530,  621,  636. 

Sheffield,  Shefeld,  co.  York,  362,  402,  421, 
441,  460. 

Shefford,  co.  Bedford,  387. 

Shelby.    See  Selby. 

Sheldon,  Shildon,  co.  Devon,  75. 

 CO.  Warwick,  137. 


Sheldon,  Daniel,  230,  513. 

 ,  Richard,  229. 

Shelfhanger,  co.  Norfolk,  257. 
Sbelford,  co.  Nottingham,  446,  511. 

  ..,  Little,  CO.  Cambridge,  410. 

Shelley,  co.  Suffolk,  297. 
Shelley,  John,  182,  384,  394. 

 ,  Roger,  301,  463. 

 ,  Thomas,  70,  71. 

Shelton,  co.  Norfolk,  191. 

  [co.  Nottingham],  274. 

Shelton,  Ralph,  221. 

Shelwake,  Robert,  parson  of  Llandyssil,  181, 
186. 

Shenfield,  co.  Essex,  227,  297. 
Shenley,  co.  Hertford,  255. 
Shepard,  Sheppard,  John,  251,  274. 

 ,  Thomas,  251. 

 ,  William,  251. 

Shepeshede.    See  Sheepshead. 
Shepeswasshe.    See  Sheepwash. 
Shepey,  William,  117. 
Shepherd,  John,  323. 

 ,  Robert,  323. 

Sheppeman.    See  Shipman. 

Sheppey,  Isle  of,  303. 

Shepward,  John,  114. 

Sherard,  Geoffrey,  199,  350,  405,  619. 

Sherborne,  Shirbourue,  Shyrborne,  co.  Dorset, 

1,  38,  55,  57,  263. 

 ,  abbey  of,  550,  554. 

...         convent  of,  558. 

 ,  John  Saunder,  aLbot  of,  558. 

 ,  Dan  Peter  Rampsham,  abbot  of,  550, 

554. 

 ,  almshouse  of  St.  John  Baptist  and  St. 

John  Evangelist,  12T. 

:  ,  Henry  Borman,  master  of,  123. 

Sherburn,  Shirbouru  in  Elmet,  co.  York,  145. 

Sherbourn,  William,  475. 

Sherdlowes.    See  Shardelowes. 

Shererd,  Richard,  558. 

Sherewynde,  Robert,  70. 

Sheriff  Huttou,  Shirefhoton,  co.  York,  260, 

266,  483,  486,  487. 
Sherlok,  John,  226,  503. 
Sherman,  John,  130,  255. 
 William,  5. 

Sherrington,   Scheryngton,    Shiryngton,  co. 

Buckingham,  411,  420. 
Sherter,  Robert,  578. 

Sherwood,  Shirwode,  co.  Nottingham,  forest  of, 
35,  310,  443,  446,  447,  451,  482,  488. 

 ,  chapel  of  St.  Edwin  in,  130. 

Sherwood,  William,  bishop  of  Meath  [1460- 
1482],  193,  592. 

 ,   ,  deputy-lieutenant  of  Ireland, 

592. 

Shery,  William,  143. 
Sheryng.    See  Shearing. 
Sheryngham,  John,  500. 


GENERA.L  INDEX. 


775 


Shesby,  Richard,  431. 
Shetford,  Edward,  444. 

 ,  Piers,  444. 

  ,  William,  444. 

Shetjllanger.    See  Shutlanger. 
Sheviock  Antony,  co.  Cornwall,  457,  529. 
Shiere,  Shire,  Shyre,  co.  Surrey,  22,  68. 
ShifiFnal,  Shuffoal,  co.  Salop,  402,  437. 
Shildon,  Shyldeyn,  co.  Northumberland,  506. 

 ,  CO.  Wilts,  466. 

  And  see  Sheldon. 

Shillyngford,  William,  246,  247,  612. 
Shileton,  John,  60,  74. 
 ,  William,  60. 

Shimpling,  Shymplyng,  co.  Sufifolk,  13,  556. 

Shingleton,  Richard,  515. 

Shipherd,  John,  9. 

Shipmau,  Sheppeman,  Thomas,  442. 

Ships  called  — : 

Anne,  264. 

le  Anne,  494. 

le  Antony,  266,  303,  471. 

le  Antoni/e  Camfer,  355. 

le  Barbara,  197,  354,  378,  525. 

le  Barge,  201. 

la  Bastian,  355. 

le  Calanta,  266. 

le  Careyan,  409,  496. 

le  Carvell  de  Tuk,  201 . 

le  Christopher,  104,  201,  250,  282,  409, 
493. 

la  Clement,  526. 
le  Davy,  114. 
le  Edward,  354. 
Edward  Howard,  201. 
le  Elen,  250,  355. 
la  Faujckon,  515. 
Fortado,  57,  101. 
le  Gahriell,  525. 

le  Grace  /Jjew,  313,  356,  399,  407,  495, 
537. 

le  Garce,  355,  401,  404,  409. 

le  George,  29,  30,  491,  494. 

le  George  Cobham,  595. 

le  George  Howard,  355,  525. 

le  James,  368,  471,  494. 

la  Jenett,  526. 

le  Jenet  Peryn,  605. 

le  John,  526. 

le  Julyan,  493. 

le  Kateryne,  198,  295,  333,  354,  355, 

378,  525. 
le  Katerine  Revers,  496. 
la  Katerine  Warrewik,  250. 
le  Kervele,  299,  355. 
le  Kervell  of  Tooke,  355. 
Loquirec,  198. 
le  Lytyll  Trinile,  526. 
le  Margarete,  87,  250  353,  496. 


Ships — cont. 

le  Margarete  Howard,  201,  355,  525. 
la  Marie,  198,  213,  217,366,409,511, 

525,  52G,  605. 
Marye  Asshe,  495. 
la  Marie  Calday,  525. 
le  Marye  Calder,  288. 
le  Marie  Cole,  496. 
la  Marye  Floure,  299,  355. 
le  Marie  Grace,  450,  471,  494. 
la  Marie  de  Keyte,  317,  319,  354. 
la  Marie  Peere,  299. 
la  Marie  Redeclyff,  471,  494. 
le  Marie  Shirborn,  409. 
le  Marye  Welfare,  317,  319,  354. 
le  Martyn,  525,  559. 
le  Michell,  250,  288. 
le  Newebarge,  355. 
le  Nicholas,  354. 

Nostre  Dame  Dtivynyer  Hirell,  198. 

Nostre  Dame  de  Seynt  Michell,  198. 

le  Old  Barge,  355. 

le  Old  Elyn,  201,  355. 

le  Packer,  496. 

le  Parker,  605. 

le  Petyr,  201,  355,  404,  526. 

le  Playte,  429. 

le  Portingale,  201. 

Raphaell,  101,  168. 

le  Rose,  299. 

Saynt  Barthelmewe,  319. 

le  Saint  Gonstain,  354. 

le  Seint  John  Baptiste,  249. 

Saint  Jitlien  de  Uenaudet,  198. 

Seint  Nicholas,  377. 

le  Seynt  Petre  the  Martyr  of  Jeane,  355. 
le  Spencer,  355. 
le  Swan,  496. 
le  Thomas  Howard,  525. 
le  Trinite,  250,  353,  355,  471,  494-496, 
526. 

le  Trinite  Cole,  355. 

le  Trynyte  Warrewyk,  201. 

the  bote  of  Folhston,  319. 
Shipton,  CO.  York,  5. 
Shipton  on  Cherwell,  co.  Oxford,  383. 
Shipton,  Anna,  5. 

 ,  William,  5. 

Shipward,  John,  119,  274. 
Shirborne.   See  Sherborne  ;  Sherburn  ;  Monk 
Sherborne. 

Shirburuf,  co.  York,  battle  of,  40,  43,  585. 

Shirburn  in  HerforJ  Lithe,  co.  York,  583, 
486,  487. 

Shirburn,  Richard,  223. 

Shire.    See  Shiere. 

Shire,  William,  145. 

Shirefhoton.    See  Sheriff  Hutton. 

Shirley,  Hugh,  esoheator  in  the  county  of  Here- 
ford, 459. 


770 


GENERAL  INDEX. 


Shirwell,  co.  Devon,  hundred  of,  105. 
Shirwode.    See  Sherwood. 
Shirwode,  John,  3,  267,  518,  581,  637. 

 ,  ,  Agnes  his  wife,  581. 

 ,  archdeacon  of  Richmond,  239, 

267,268,  581. 
 ,  ,  master  of  the  hospital  of  St. 

Edmund,  Gateshead,  142. 
 ,  warden  of  the  hospital  of  St, 

Nicholas,  York,  15,  240. 
 ,  Thomas,  634. 

Shiryngton.    See  Sherrington  ;  Shurdington. 
Shitlington,  Shytlyngtou,  co.  Bedford,  507. 
Shockerwick,  Shokerwyke,  co.  Somerset,  211, 

457,  530. 
Shofterigge,  36. 
Shoil,  John,  204. 
Shopland,  co.  Essex,  13. 
Shordich,  Robert,  escheator  in  Kent,  445, 

446. 

Shore,  William,  182. 
Shoreham,  co.  Sussex,  104. 
 port  of,  357. 

Shorewesbury,  Dan  John,  prior  of  Wenlock, 
274. 

Shorne,  co.  Kent,  148,  435. 
Shorter,  John,  547. 
Shotesbroke,  Robert,  449. 

 ,  Edith  his  first  wife,  449. 

 ,  ,  Elizabeth  his  second  wife,  449. 

Shotley,  co.  Suffolk,  567. 

Shotover,  Shotter,  co.  Oxford,  forest  of,  159. 

Shotte,  Robert,  576. 

Shotter.    See  Shotover. 

Shottesbrook,  Dame  Isabel,  112. 

 ,  Robert,  112. 

Shouldham,  Shuldham,  co.  Norfolk,  322. 
Shoute,  Johnj  525. 

Shrawardine,  Shrewardyn,  co.  Salop,  470. 
Shreve,  Edmund,  609. 
Shrevenam.    See  Shrivenham. 
Shrewsbury,  Shrovesbury,  co.  Salop,  80,  130, 

232,  235,  242,  258,  293,  294,  398,  400, 

496. 

 ,  abbot  and  convent  of,  183. 

 ,  college  of  St.  Mary,  dean  of.  See 

Blakeweyu  ;  Cressy  ;  Whitmore. 
  hospital  of  St.  John  Baptist,  John 

Byckeley,  warden  of,  227. 
Shrivenham,  Schryvenham,  Shrevenam,  co. 

Berks,  197,  400,  411,  541,  562. 
Shropham,  co.  Norfolk,  149. 
Shrouesbury,  Dan  John,  prior  of  Farleigh, 

97. 

Shrovesbury.    See  Shrewsbury. 
Shroweuore  in  Bere  forest,  co.  Southampton, 
97. 

Shrowesbury.    See  Shrewsbury. 
Shryvynam.    See  Shrivenham. 
Shucborough.    See  Shukburgh. 
Shuffnal.    See  Shiffnal. 


Shukburgh,  John,  45,  79,  204,  223,  257. 
Shuldham.    See  Shouldham. 
Shuldham,  John,  parson  of  St.  Peter,  Guisnes, 
358. 

Shurdington,  hiryngton.  Great,  co.  Glouces- 
ter, 541. 
Shute,  CO.  Devon,  304. 
Shute,  John,  181,  268. 
Shutehill,  William,  61. 

Shutelake  [in  Collumpton],  co.  Devon,  343. 
Shutlanger,   Schytlanger,  Shetyllanger,  co. 

Northampton,  190. 
Shyldeyn.    See  Shildon. 
Shymplyng.    See  Shimpling. 
Shyngwell,  Henry,  78. 
Shyrborne.    See  Sherborne. 
Shyrburne,  Robert,  572. 
Shyre.    See  Shiere. 
Shyriffe,  Richard,  143. 
Sibbertoft,  Sybertoft,  co.  Northampton,  4. 
Sible  Hedingham,  co.  Essex,  297,  560. 
Sibsey,  Sybsey,  co.  Lincoln,  508. 
Sibyll,  John,  219. 

Sidborough,  Sydburgh,  John,  359,  480. 
Sidbury,  Sydbury,  co.  Devon,  60,  81. 
Siddale,  Richard,  281. 

Siddington,  Oversodyngton,  co.  Gloucester, 
271. 

Side,  Syde,  co.  Gloucester,  10. 
Sidenham.    See  Sydenham. 
Sidon,  William,  bishop  of,  390. 
Sigglesthorne,  Segliston,  Syglesthorne,  co. 

York,  89,  267. 
Silton,  John,  the  younger,  74. 
Silver,  Henry,  227,  253. 
Silvester,  chancellor  of  Henry  III.,  561. 
Silvestres  Hall  in  Bures,  co.  Suffolk,  38. 
Simon  a  Court,  Humphrey,  300. 
Simond,  Symond,  John,  202,  324. 

 ,  Richard,  356,  399. 

 ,  Thomas,  128,  198. 

SinningtoD,  Synnyogton,  co.  York,  206. 
Sion.    See  Syon. 
Sipton,  CO.  vSalop,  521. 

Sittingbourne,  Sydyngbourne,  co.  Kent,  184. 

Sixtus,  pope,  332,  474,  597,  598. 

Skappeton.    See  Slapton. 

Skaresbrik,  James,  426. 

Skaresdale.    See  Scarsdale. 

Skatergode,  Robert,  249. 

Skayff,  Miles,  231,  233. 

Skaylshawe.    See  Skellow. 

Skeffington,  Skefynton,  co.  Leicester,  600. 

Skegness,  co.  Lincoln,  354. 

Skellow,  Skaylshawe,  co.  York,  260. 

Skelton,  co.  Cumberland,  40. 

 ,  Skelden,  co.  York,  49. 

Skelton,  Clement,  214,  277. 

 ,  Edward,  29,  197,  214,  317-319,  379, 

491,493. 


GENERAL  INDEX. 


777 


Skelton,  John,  263,  288. 

 ,  Nicholas,  214,  277. 

 ,  Robert,  73. 

 ,  Thomas,  288. 

Skendleby,  co.  Lincoln,  508. 
Skern,  Edmund,  520,  637. 

 ,  Henry,  520. 

 ,  Margaret,  520. 

 ,  Robert,  246,  248. 

Skidmore,  William,  101. 

Skiptou  in  Craven,  co.  York,  505,  549. 

Skipwith,  Skypwith,  John,  499. 

 ,  ,  Agnes  his  wife,  499. 

 ,  William,  169,  252,  254,  285,  352, 

354,  523,  621,  622. 
Skirbeck,  co.  Lincoln,  316,  457,  508,  529. 
Skirbek,  John,  501. 
Skirpenbcck,  co.  York,  483,  4B6,  487. 
Skirwith,  co.  Cumberland,  13. 
Skirwith,  John,  171. 
Skollok.    See  Scullok. 
Skoreraan,  Henry,  255. 
Skouryston.    See  See  Ruston. 
Skowe,  John,  75. 

Skrene,  Serene,  John,  23,  482,  492,  494,  594. 

 ,   ,  Elizabeth  his  wife,  23. 

 ,  Isabel,  594. 

 ,  William,  594. 

Skretou.    See  Screveton. 
Skrevelby.    See  Scrivelsby. 
Skrymshire,  Thomas,  76. 

 ,   ,  Agnes  his  wife,  76. 

Skryven,  John,  471. 

SkuUe,  Scull,  Walter,  54,  110,  116,  160,  218, 
289,  350,  406,  636. 

 ,   ,  Frances  his  wife,  110. 

Skydmore.    See  Scudamoure. 
Skylling,  Michael,  298. 

Skyllyngton,  Master  Richard,  prebendary  of 

Lincoln,  296. 
Skynarton,  Henry,  623. 
Skynner,  John,  201,  208,  250,  355. 

 ,  Richard,  462. 

Skyppon,  Thomas,  8. 

Slade,  John,  149. 

Slader,  John,  573. 

Slaghtneford.    See  Slaiighterford. 

Slaighteneford.    See  Slaughterford. 

Slapton,  Skappeton,  Slappeton,  co.  Devon, 

457,  518,  557. 

 ,  CO.  Northampton,  521. 

Slaughterford,  Slaighteneford,  co.  Wilts,  62 

328. 

Slawton,  Sclauston,  co.  Leicester,  8. 

Sleaford,  letters  patent  dated  at,  586,  610. 

Sleddale,  co.  Westmoreland,  257. 

Slegge,  Stephen,  321. 

Sleper,  John,  501. 

Slingsby,  Slynesby,  co.  York,  579. 

Slugge,  John,  75. 


Slyfeld,  Thomas,  632. 

Slymbrigge,  Master  Robert,  393. 

Slynesby.    See  Slingsby. 

Slj-ngesby,  John,  55. 

 ,  Thomas,  593. 

 ,  Isabel  his  wife,  593. 

..........  William,  79. 

Smalbergh,  Walter,  320. 

Smale,  John,  203,  228. 

 Roger,  450. 

Smalewode,  Peter,  568. 

Smallburgh,  Smalberowe,  co.  Norfolk,  191. 

Smalwode,  John,  2. 

Smarden,  Smerden,  co.  Kent,  577. 

Smeaton,  Smeton,  co.  York,  483,  486. 

Smcde,  I'eter,  491,  492,  494. 

Smecthe,  John,  warden  of  the  hospital  of 
St.  Mary  of  Bethlehem  without  Bis- 
hopsjate,  London,  233. 

Smerden.    See  Smarden. 

Smert,  John,  405,  429. 

Smerthwayte,  Gilbert,  374. 

Smeth,  Thomas,  77. 

Smith,  John,  493. 

Smoet,  Adrian,  57,  129. 

Smyth,  Baldwin,  49,  331. 

 Clement,  prebendary  of  St.  George's 

Windsor,  236. 

 ,  ,  prebendary  of  St.  Mary's,  War- 
wick, 236. 

 ,  Geoffrey,  parson  of  Sullington,  203. 

 ,  Humphrey,  77. 

 ,  John,  74,  79,  322,  367,  369,  385,  420, 

432,  437,  578,  589,  592. 

 Elizabeth  his  wife,  420. 

 ,   ,  parson  of  Sheufield,  227. 

 ,   rector  of  Stanford  Rivers,  367. 

 bishop  of  Llandaff  [  1476-1478J , 

.598. 

 ,  Louis,  31. 

 ,  Maurice,  265. 

 Nicholas,  210. 

 ,  Richard,  436,  443. 

 ,  ,  Alice  his  wife,  443. 

 ,  Robert,  203,  431,  563. 

  Matilda  his  wife,  563. 

 ,  Roger,  53. 

 ,  Simon,  463. 

 ,   ,  sheriff  of  Middlesex,  234. 

 .Thomas,  77,  141,255,271,  380,44.5, 

446. 

 William,  143,  465,  574,  581,  605. 

Smythes,  Robert,  431. 
Snaith,  Snayfh,  co.  York,  499. 
Suaith,  Ralph,  353. 
Snape  [co.  York],  483,  486. 
Snape,  John,  114,  171,  567. 
Suarston,  co.  Leicester,  145,  384. 
Snave,  co.  Kent,  283. 
Snayuton.    See  Snenton. 


778  GENERAL  INDEX. 


Snayth,  William,  146. 
Snell,  John,  81. 

Snenton,  Snaynton  [co.  Nottingham],  381. 
Snetirfeld.    See  Snitterfield. 
Snettisham,  Snetesham  [co.  Norfolk],  323. 
Snitterfield,  Snetirfeld,  co.  Warwick,  78,  79. 
Snoryng,  John,  321. 
Snowdon,  co.  Carnarvon,  212. 

 ,  forest  of,  113. 

Snowdon,  John,  337. 

Snyffamore,  Snyffemore,  John,  75,  533. 

Sockburn,  Sokburne  [co.  York],  200. 

Sodworthy,  36. 

Sokburne.    See  Sockburn. 

Sokelyng,  John,  69. 

 ,   ,  Katharine  his  wife,  69. 

 ,   ,  Margaret  his  wife,  69. 

Solareo,  John  de,  557. 

Solicitor  general.    See  Fowler ;  Page. 

Solihull,  Sulyhull,  co.  Warwick,  49,  137,  206, 

331,  345,457,  529,  604. 
Solway,  Sulwath,  water  of,  423. 
Solyhull.    See  Solihull. 
Somerby,  William,  76. 
Somercotes,  co.  Lincoln,  43,  122,  508. 
Somerdeu,  co.  Kent,  hundred  of,  301. 
Someries  [in  Luton,  co.   Bedford],  letters 

patent  dated  at,  468. 
Somerleyton,  Somerletown,  co.  Suffolk,  175, 

176,  304. 

Somerset,  county  of,  20,  25,  36,  56,  65,  99, 

112,  139,  159,  162,  182,  188,  195,  196, 

204,  218-220,  263,  284,  329,  335,  347, 

350,  406,  427,  430,  462,  464,  490,  492, 

496,  524,  550,  590. 
 ,   ,  sheriff  of,  20,  29,  56,  93,  95, 

159,  182,  188,  219,  242,  284,  343,  350, 

406,  490,  492,  524,  590. 
    And  see  Brownyng  ;  Herbert ; 

Stafford ;  Sydenham  ;  Worseley. 
 ,   escheator  in,  15,  125,  233,  266, 

296,  360,  391,  399,  550. 
 ,   A7id    see   Gill;    Mauncell ; 

Twynyho  ;     Philips  ;    Vowell ;    Say  ; 

Hugyn. 

 ,  outlawries  in,  7,  9,  10,  12,  72, 

75  76,  93,  148,  254,  256,  326,  380, 
381,  401,  431,  436,  443,  473,  499,  502, 
580. 

 ^   ,  subsidy  and  ulnage  of  cloth  in, 

238,  266,  329,  335,  347,  444,  478, 
537. 

 justices  of  the  peace  in,  473. 

 ,  commissions  of  the  peace  in, 

628. 

Somerton,  co.  Lincoln,  242,  457,  529. 

 ,  CO.  Somerset,  475. 

  Earl,  CO.  Somerset,  211,  457,  530. 

  Eandolf,  co.  Somerset,  211. 

Somerton,  John,  273. 

Somery,  Sir  Roger  de,  baron  of  Dudley,  70. 
 ,  Margaret,  70. 


Sompnour,  Robert,  71. 
Sonbrek.    See  Sunbrick. 
Sonday,  John,  576,  577. 
Sondeford.      ec  Sandford. 
Sone,  Thomas,  189. 
Sondes,  Reginald,  391. 

 ,  William,  585. 

Sonne,  John,  77. 

 ,  Walter,  77. 

Soper,  John,  61,  368. 

Sophianus,  Emanuel,  65. 

Soreby,  Peter  de,  515. 

Sorell,  .Tohn,  259,  269,  318,  468,  496. 

 ,  Nicholas,   chaplain    of  Mortymers 

Chauntry  in  Chichester  cathedral,  294, 

296. 

Sotby,  CO.  Lincoln,  363. 

Sotehill,  Henry,  106,  177,  246,248,  261,  403, 
408,  530,  619,  627,  638. 

 ,   the  king's  attorney,  113. 

  ,   ,  Anne  his  wife,  113. 

 ,  John,  601. 

 ,  Elizabeth  his  wife,  601. 

Sothewell,  Richard,  221. 
Soules,  Thomas,  228,  236. 
Soureby.    See  Sowerby. 
Sourton,  co.  Devon,  143. 
SoutereU,  Roger,  221. 
South,  Robert,  603. 

Southampton,  5,  57,  65,  77,  80,  128,  142, 
155,  209,  228,  309,  310,  324,  348,  356, 
357,  386,  447,  462,  492,  496. 

 ,  mayor  and  burgesses  of,  122,  154. 

 ,  mayor  of,  128,  494. 

  And  see  William. 

 ,  port  of,  11,  19,  24,  34,  48,  49,  57,  59, 

101,  108,  122,  132,  134,  153-155,  160, 
165-167,  181,  186,204,206,212,213, 
217,  229,  230,  240,  245,  262,  265,  268, 
269,  273,  305,  309,  338,  341,  347,  357, 
361,  389,  391,  393,  394,  422,  441,  445, 
447,  467,  468,  472,  474,  478,  495,  513, 
521,  525,  528,  532,  541,  545,  547,  555, 
558,  560,  587,  600. 

 ,  chapel  of  St.  George  in,  49,  229,  265. 

 ,  outlawry  in,  142,  228,  435. 

 letters  patent  dated  at  204,  206-209, 

217,  619,  620,  624,  629. 

 ,  subsidy  and  ulnage  of  cloth  in,  348. 

 ,  county  of,  41,  52,  56,  57,  65,  88,  97, 

101,  128,  196,  218,  220,  232,  246,  261, 
281,  298,  305,  329,  348,  351,  404,  405, 
429,  462,  466,  490,  492,  495,  496,  524, 
570. 

 ,   ,  sheriff  of,  53,  56,  57,  351  405, 

429,  490,  492,  495,  524,  571,  572, 
589. 

  And  see  Roger. 

 ,   ,  escheator   in,    15,  16,  233, 

241,  278,  333,  339,  360. 

  And  see  Banaster ;  Hide  ;  Troys. 


GENERAL  INDEX. 


779 


Southampton,  county  of,  outlawries  iu,  7,  8, 
73,81,  203,256,381,432,436,  504,  580. 

 ,  ,  subsidy  and  ulnage  of  cloth  in, 

329,  348,  478. 

 ,  ,  commissions  of  the  peace  in, 

629. 

Southarp,  Souththorpe,  eo.  Somerset,  533. 
Southbroke,  chapel  of,  in  South  Weald,  co. 

Essex,  437. 
South  Cliff,  CO.  York,  142. 
Southcott,  CO.  Buckingham,  191,  521. 
Southcreyke.    See  Creake. 
Southern,  Richard,  432. 
Southewynd,  Sowethewyn,  William,  436. 
Southfeld,  CO.  Norfolk,  539. 
Southfleet,  co.  Kent,  255,  299,  302,  343. 
Southall  in  Horbling,  co.  Lincoln,  560. 
Southill,  Southyevill,  co.  Bedford,  191. 
Southill,  llichard,  289. 
Southlegh,  CO.  Wilts,  306. 
Southmolton,  co.  Devon,  32,  61,  137,  148, 

466. 

 ,   ,  hundred  of,  32,  137- 

Southorpe,  co.  Lincoln,  19,  200,  310,  420, 
518,  523. 

Southrop,  Soutliorp,  co.  Gloucester,  365. 
South  Scarle,  Sowthkarll,  (irebend  of,  308. 
Souththorpe.    See  Southarp. 
Southwark,  Suthwerk,  co.  Surrey,  5,  47,  75, 

82,  85,  101,  122,  178,  184,  255,328, 

422,  440,  467,  496,  548,  580,  586. 
 ,  Horton  Key  in  the  parish  of  St. 

Olave  in,  52,  184,  201. 
 ,  St.  Mary  Overey,  prior  and  convent 

of,  543. 

 ,   Henry,  prior  of,  462,  543. 

 ,  hospital   of    St.    Thomas  Martyr, 

William  Crosse,  master  of,  462. 
Southwell,  collegiate  clmrch  of,  prebend  of 

South  Muskham  in,  559. 
Southwell,  Suthwell,  John,  dean  of  St.  Mary, 

Warwick,  :!86. 
  Richard,  26,  197,  224,  352,  353,  406, 

490,  491,  .539,  575,  623. 
Southweyld.    .See  Weald,  South. 
Southworth,  Suthworth,    Christopher,  426, 

572. 

 ,  John,  497,  524,  526,  572. 

 mayor  of  Chester,  524. 

Southyevill.    See  Southill. 
Sowerby,  Soureby,  co.  Cumberland,  13. 
...         CO.  York,  483,  486,  487,547. 
Sowethewyn.    See  Southewynd. 
Sowliarde,  John,  410. 
Sowthkarll.    See  South  Scarle. 
Spadard,  John,  154,  337. 

Suain,  Spaniards,  .54,  198,  240,  249,  273,307, 
317,  319,354,377,422,  450,  471,474, 
480,  599. 

 ,  king  of,  377,  378. 

 ship  called  le  Calanta  of,  267. 


Spain,  ship  called  la  Katerine  of,  333,  354. 

 ,  ship  called  la  Marie  of,  366. 

 ,  ship  called  la  Marie  de  Keyte  of, 

317,  319,354. 

 ,  ship  called  le  Nicholas  of,  354. 

 ,  ship  called  Saynt  Barthelmewe  of, 

319. 

 ship  called  Saint  Nicholas  of,  377. 

Spalding,  co.  Lincoln,  238,  323,  437,  560. 

 Th.,  prior  of,  354. 

 ,  Thomas,  prior  of,  619. 

Spaldwick,  Spaldewyk,  co.  Huntingdon,  437. 
Spaldyng,  Robert,  54,  352,  379,  403,  408,  409. 

 ,  Thomas,  225. 

Sparke,  Warin,  78. 

Sparowe,  William,  322. 

Sparre,  la,  in  Aquitaine,  342. 

Sparweye,  Robert,  293. 

Spary,  John,  64,  411. 

Spaxton,  CO.  Somerset,  592. 

Spayne,  Martin  de,  366. 

Spekc,  John,  368. 

Spelman.    See  Spilman. 

Spclsbury,  Spellisbury,  co.  Oxford,  374,  375. 

Spence,  John,  234. 

Spencer,  Spenser,  Henry,  274. 

 ,  Henry  le,  bishop  of  Norwich  [1370- 

1406],  459,  538. 
 ,  John,  4,  432. 

 ,  vicar  of  Boughton  Mouchelsea, 

433. 

 ,  William,  8,  13,  94,  171,  241,  286, 

288,  586. 

 ,  Edith  his  wife,  94. 

 ,  William,  mayor  of  Bristol,  399. 

Spender,  John,  381. 
Speneawe,  Bartholomew,  586. 
Speneley.    See  Spoonley. 
Spenne,  William,  125,  493. 
Spenser.    See  Spencer. 
Speny,  John,  225,  382. 
Spere,  Philip,  325. 
Spereman,  Richard,  286,  287. 
Sperlyng,  William,  61. 
Spert,  Henry,  621. 

 ,  Richard,  285,  329,  348,  354,  490, 

496,  621. 
Sperweye,  Robert,  293. 
Speryng,  Godfrey,  479. 
Spicer,  Thomas,  169. 
Spiers,  lord  of.    See  Brugges. 
Spilman,  Spelman,  Spylraan,  Henry,  170,  197, 

245,  247,  249,  289,  406,  487,  606,  622. 

 ,  John,  487. 

 William,  487. 

Spilsby,  Spillesby,  co.  Lincoln,  508. 
Spires,  charter  dated  at,  370,  371. 
Spirlyng,  Geoffrey,  146. 
Spirway,  Robert,  293. 
Spofforth,  SpofEord,  co.  York,  279. 


780 


GENERAL  INDEX. 


Spon  by  Coventry,  co.  Warwick,  cbapel  of 

St.  Mary  at,  471. 
Spoonley,  Sponeley,  Speneby,  co.  Salop,  17, 

125. 

Sporweye,  Robert,  217,  293. 
Spragot,  Richard,  626. 
Spregge.    See  Sprigge. 
Sprengeaux,  Edward,  145. 
Spretft,  Henry,  387. 

Sprigge,  Spregge,  Sprygge,  William,  101,  168, 
171. 

Sprigouell,  John,  74. 
Springe,  Spryng,  Geoffrey,  178,  518. 
Springfield,  Spryngwell,  co.  Essex,  78. 
Spring thorpe,   Spryngthorpe,    co.  Lincoln, 
396. 

Sprot,  Walter,  326. 
Sprotte,  John,  571. 
Sprygge.    See  Sprigge. 
Spryng.    See  Springe. 
Spryngehed,  Fulk,  429. 
Spryngwell.    See  Springfield. 
Spurwey,  Robert,  293. 
Spyldesell,  John,  577. 
Spyne,  Christopher,  481. 
Spynell,  Anthony,  510. 
Spynellis,  Aufrionus  de,  445. 
Spynewe,  Bartholomew  de,  586. 
Spynke,  John,  197. 
Squyer,  John,  526. 

 ,  Margaret,  sub-prioress  of  Higham, 

564. 

St.  Albans,  co.  Hertford,  254,  286,  306. 

 battle  of,  43,  585. 

 abbey  of,  232,  241,  597. 

 ,  abbot  and  convent  of,  232,  241,  512, 

540,  595. 

 William,  abbot  of,  512. 

William  Albon,  abbot  of,  595,  597. 

 ,  William  Wallyngford,  prior  of,  597. 

St.  Asaph,  cathedral  of,  prebend  of  Aluetham 

in,  585. 

 ,  diocese  of,  233,  342,  538. 

 ,  Thomas,  bishop  of,  280. 

St  Augustine,  order  of,  16,  23,  35,  39,  238, 
260,  278,  283,  292,  309,  328-330,  332, 
342,  343,  438,  454,  469,  475,  477,  590. 

St.  Austell,  CO.  Cornwijl,  581. 

St.  Bees,  St.  Bede,  co.  Cumberland,  438. 

St  Benedict,  order  of,  66,  107,  115,  116,  119, 
123,  125,  186,  205,  227,  233,  239-241, 
260,  263,  266,  271,  328,  333,  337,  346, 
387,  394,  395,  440,  442,  470,  472,  475, 
519,  544. 

St.  Berian.    See  St.  Burian. 

St.  Blaise,  in  the  diocese  of  Terouanue,  274. 

St.  Breok,  Sentbreak,  co.  Cornwall,  104. 

St.  Briavels,  co.  Gloucester,  484. 

St.  Burian,  co.  Cornwall,  free  chapel  of,  427. 

St.  Carantok.    See  Crantock. 


St.  Columb,  Seyut  Columbe,  co.  Cornwall, 
104. 

St.  Davids,  diocese  of,  106,  181,  186,  333, 
447. 

St.  Denis,  in  France,  abbot  and  convent  of, 
551. 

St.  Dogmael  in  Kemmeys,  co.  Pembroke, 
abbot  and  convent  of,  465. 

St.  Edmunds,  abbot  and  convent  of,  49. 

 ,  John  Boon,  abbot  of,  73. 

 ,  charters  dated  at,  460,  521. 

St.  George,  Seintgeorge,  Richard,  208. 

 ,  William,  245,  248,  436,  581,  609. 

St.  Germans,  co.  Cornwall,  145. 

St.  Guthlac's  Cross,  Godelakcrosse,  co.  Lin- 
coln, 170. 

St.  Helen,  Isle  of  Wight,  co.  Southampton, 

priory  of,  63,  461. 
St.  Heliers,  in  Jersey,  alien  priory  of,  549. 
St.  Ives,  Sent  la,  Seynt  Ye,  Porthea,  co. 

Cornwall,  104,  327,  354. 
St.  John,  Seyntjohn,  Oliver,  28,  151,  170,  352, 

620. 

 ,  Thomas,  249. 

St.  John  of  Jerusalem  in  England,  hospital 

of,  189,  231,  232,  506. 

 ,  prior  of,  132. 

 ,    John  Langstrother,  prior  of, 

165,  177,  189,  217,  229,  231,  232,  239, 

248,  622. 

 ,  Robert,  prior  of,  622. 

 ,  Robert  Botill,  prior  of,  189,  232. 

 ,  Robert  Multon,  prior  of,  526,  545. 

 ,  Leonard  de  Tibertis,  prior  of,  189, 

232. 

 ,  Philip  de  Thame,  prior  of,  189. 

  William  Tournay,  prior  of,  -306. 

 Robert  Baily,  sub-prior  of,  231,  232. 

St.  John's,  in  Jersey,  360. 

St,  Just,  Seintjuste,  Master  Thomas,  master 

of  the  King's  Hall  Cambridge,  32. 
St.  Keuelm's  [in  Romsley,  co.  Worcester], 

396. 

St.  Keverne,  Sent  Keveran,  co.  Cornwall,  104. 
St.  Laurence,  co.  Kent,  556. 
St.  Leger,  Seyntleger,  Selynger,  Bartholomew, 
552. 

 ,  Ralph,  182,  195. 

 ,   ,  sheriff  of  Kent,  97,  159. 

 ,  Thomas,  136,  182,  297,  351,405,  408, 

417,  433,  464,  491,  492,  548,  583,  612, 
632. 

 ,   ,  sheriff  of  Surrey  and  Sussex, 

426. 

St.  Lo,  Sayntloo,  Giles,  470. 

 ,  Nicholas,  193,  200,  264. 

St.  Madron,  co.  Cornwall,  80. 

St.  Malo,  Seynt  Malowes,  55. 

St.  Margaret  Stretton.  .See  Stratton  St, 
Margaret. 

St.  Martin,  co.  Kent,  hundred  of,  301. 


GENERAL  INDEX 


781 


St.  Mary  Bourne,  Burne  St.  Mary,  co.  South- 

aiiiptou,  76,  534. 
St.  Mary  Church,  co.  Kent,  283. 
St.  Mary  in  the  Marsh,  Seyntmarichurche,  co. 

Kent,  546,  547. 
St.  Maur,  Seyntmaure,  Thoma»,  367,  381, 

628. 

St.  Michael  [co.  Lancaster],  515. 
St.  Michael's  Mount,  co.  Cornwall,  400,  412, 
418. 

 ,  priory  of,  238. 

St.  Neots,  CO.  Huntingdon,  141. 

St.  Nicholas,  Isle  of  Thanet,  co.  Kent,  143. 

 Court,  Isle  of  Thanet,  co.  Kent,  394. 

St.  Nicholas,  Seynt  Nicholas,  Thomas,  302. 
St.  Omer,  charters  Jated  at,  398. 
St.  Pancras,  prebend  of,  460. 
St.  Perau  in  Uthno.    See  Perran  Uthnoe. 
St.  Peter,  in  Jersey,  alien  priory  of,  549. 
St.  Peter  by  Calais,  in  Picardy,  309. 
St.  Pol  de  Leon,  St.  Paul,  in  Brittany,  474. 
St.  Kadegund's,  co.  Kent,  Ingclram,  abbot  of, 
352. 

St.  Sever,  alien  priory  of,  63. 
St.  Stephen's  by  Saltash,  co.  Cornwall,  145. 
St.  Sulpice,  in  Brittany,  abbess  and  nuns  of, 
370. 

St.  Victor,  order  of,  399. 

Stable,  Stabill,  Stabuli,  Richard  of,  200. 

 ,  Robert,  214,  277. 

 ,  William,  80,  222. 

Stachedeyn.    See  Stagsden. 
Stacy,  .lohn,  147. 

 Thomas,  141,  302. 

Stadhern.    See  Stathern. 
Stafford,  28. 

 county  of,  55,  70,  82,  106,  154,  159, 

196,  219,  233,  281,  284,  285,  287,  329, 
348,  351,  403,  407,  408,  428,  430,  457, 
462,  492,  496,  513,  529,  535,  545,  562. 

   ,  sheriff  of,  160,  219,  284,  287, 

351,  379,  407,  408,  492. 

  Arid  see  Beaumont ;  Acton  ;  Bre- 

retou. 

 ,  escheator  in,  35,  359,  391. 

 ,   A7id  see  Wodell. 

 ,   outlawries  in,  9,  12,  74,  82, 

253,  589. 

 ,  ,  subsidy  and  ulnagc  of  cloth 

in,  329,  348,  478. 
 ,   commissions  of  the  peace  in, 

630. 

Staflford,  Alice,  186. 

 ,  Edward,  earl  of  Wiltshire,  520,  533, 

540,  543,  5.54,  562,  564. 

 ,  Fulk,  419. 

 ,   ,  Margaret  bis  wife,  419. 

 Henry,  28,  34,  117,  196,  246,  248, 

284,  298,  334,  620,  621,  632. 

 ,   ,  Margaret,   countess  of  Rich- 
mond, his  wife,  334. 


Stafford, Henr_v,  duke  of  Buckingham,  175, 

284,  28'5,  298,  351,  367,  507,  513,  615, 

616,  627,  630,  634,  036. 
 ,  Humphrey,  2,  175,  198,  284,  350, 

354,  367,  406,  431),  634,  636. 
 ,  sheriff  of  Somerset  and  Dorset, 

65. 

 ,   of  Grafton,  7,  470. 

 ,  lord  Stafford  of  South  wick,  17, 

22.23,  57,  65,  85,  102,  112,  116,  124, 

lat)-128,  169,  612,  613. 
 ,  earl  of  Devon,  156,  170,  171, 

173-176,  186,  197,  412,  628. 
 ,  Isabel,  countess  of  Devon,  his 

wife,  425. 

 ,   ,  late  duke  of  Buckingham,  34, 

69,  117.  158,  175,  256.  334,  367,  508, 
522. 

 ,  ,  Anne,  duchess  of  Buckingham, 

his  wife,  69,  72,  211,256,  299,  308, 
346,  414,  508,  510,  535,  554,  585. 

 John,  34,  117,  158,  159,  170,  195, 

196,  396. 

 ,  steward  of  the  duchy  of  Corn- 
wall, 175. 

 ,   ,  earl  of  Wiltshire.  199,  207, 

219,  271,  284,  285,  310,  339,  346,  349- 
351,  520,  533.  540,  554,  562.  564.  610, 
612,  617.  623,  630,  635. 

   chief  butler  of  England,  262, 

330,  414.  415. 

 ,   ,  Constance  his  wife,  158,  159, 

520,  5.33,  564. 

 Thomas,  101,  218,  284. 

 ,  William,  186,  509. 

Stagsden,  Stachedeyn,  co.  Bedford,  157. 
344. 

Staines,  co.  Middlesex,  188. 

Stainton.  Staj'nton,  co.  Lancaster,  456. 

Stalbroke,  Thomas,  577. 

 ,   sheriff  of  London,  96. 

Stalisficld,  CO.  Kent,  291. 
Stallingborough,4Stalyngbourgh,  co.  Lincoln, 
85,  258. 

Stambourne,  Staunbourne,  co.  Essex,  89. 
Stambridge,  Stanbrigge.  Great,  co.  Usscx,  32, 
137. 

 ,  Little,  32,  137,  472. 

Stamford,  Staunford,  co.  Lincoln,  5,  28,  213, 

316,  508,  536. 

 ,  charter  dated  at,  134. 

 letters  patent  dated  at,  205.  396,  398, 

399,  408. 

  And  see  Sam  ford. 

Stamford  Bridge,  Stanfordbrig,  co.  York, 

483,  486,487. 

Stamfordham,  Stanfordham,  co.  Northumber- 
land, 228,  236. 

Stamp,  Stompe,  Henry,  407. 

Stanbrige,  John.  443. 

Stanbrigge.    See  Stambridge. 

Stanbury,  Stanburu,  co.  York,  327. 


782 


GENERAL  INDEX. 


Stanbery,  Stonbery,  John,  bishop  of  Here- 
ford [1453-1474],  294,  365,  447,  448, 
467,  615,  616. 

 Nicholas,  340,  414,  438. 

Stande,  co.  Suffolk,  556. 

Standon,  co.  Hertford,  336,  599. 

Standyssh.  Fulk  de,  16. 

 ,  ,  Alice  his  wife,  16. 

Stane,  co.  Kent,  546. 

Stanes,  William,  502. 

Stanesfeld.    See  Stonesfield. 

Stanford,  co.  Norfolk,  562. 

  And  see  Stamford. 

Stanford,  John,  157,  268. 

Stanfordham.    See  Stamfordham. 

Stanford  Mounfychet.  See  Stansted  Mount- 
fitchet. 

  Kivers,  co.  Essex,   367,  393,  458, 

554. 

Stanground,  Staundground,  co.  Huntingdon, 
170. 

Stanhope  [co.  Durham],  295. 

Stanhope,  Stanop,  John,  247,  407,  462,  625. 

Stanhowkeld,  483,  487. 

Stanlak,  Richard,  83,  567. 

Stanley,  Stanelay,  co.  York,  144. 

Stanley,  George,  219,  525,  572. 

 Humphrey,  82. 

 ,  James,  410,  479. 

 ,  John,  28,  82,  100,  219,  308,  322, 

351,  407,  525,  572,  630. 

 ,   ,  Elizabeth  his  wife,  322. 

 ,   ,  abbot  of  Dale,  479. 

   ,  the  elder,  276. 

 ,   ,  the  younger,  276. 

'.  ,  Thomas,  lord,  211,  241,   410,  479, 

490,  497,  515,  525,  572,  573,  583,  612, 

613,  615,  629,  632,  634-636. 
 ^   ,  steward  of  the  household,  415, 

529. 

William,  183,  199,  297,  349,  410, 
479,  490,  491,  497,  505,  524-526,  556, 
572,  638. 

 ,  ,  Elizabeth  his  wife,  297. 

 ,  Joan  his  wife,  505. 

Stanlowe,  William,  620. 

 ,  John,  620. 

Stanmore,  Little,  co.  Middlesex,  385. 

Stanney,  John,  633. 

Stanop.    See  Stanhope. 

Stanshawe,  Thomas,  524,  585. 

Stansted  Mountfitchet,  Stanford  Mounfychet, 

CO.  Essex,  297,  321,  543,  547,  563, 

567. 

Stansted,  Walter,  abbot  of  St.  John's,  Col- 
chester, 107. 

Stanton,  Staunton,  co.  Suffolk,  291. 

  Barry,  Stonton  Barry,  co.  Bucking- 
ham, 18. 

 Harcourt,  co.  Oxford,  515. 

  St.  John,  Staundon,  co.  Oxford,  432, 

498,  578. 


Stanton,  Hervey  de,  justice  of  the  Bench, 
465. 

Stanwick,  Stanewig,  co.  Northampton,  60. 
Stanwikkes,  Thomas,  214. 
Stanwix,  Stanwikkes,  co.  Cumberland,  214, 
277. 

Stanyngburgh,  George,  525. 

StapenhiU  [co.  Derby],  95. 

Stapill,  John,  251. 

Staple,  CO.  Kent,  42. 

Stapleton,  co.  Somerset,  456. 

Stapleton,  Stapilton,  Stepulton,  Hugh,  407, 

521,  627. 

 ,  Miles,  16,  4  06. 

 ,  William,  199,  572. 

Star  Chamber.    See  Westminster. 

Starky,  Sterky,  Edmund,  331. 

 ,  Humphry,  53,  70,  71,  169,  252,  360, 

407,  514,  530,  618. 

 ,   ,  recorder  of  London,  345. 

 ,  John,  295. 

 ,  Robert,  340. 

Stathern,  Stadhern,  co.  Leicester,  336. 
Stathom,  Stathum,  Henry,  408,  410,  479, 

611. 

 ,  Nicholas,  38,  100,  248,  288,  299- 

302,  611. 

 Robert,  crier  in  the  King's  Bench, 

265,  441. 

 ,  Thomas,  611. 

Statute  of  Provisors,  110. 

  of  Acton  Burtiell,  84,  518. 

Staughton,  Little,  Litelstoughton,  co.  Bed- 
ford, 9. 

Staunboume.    See  Stambourne. 
Staundground.    See  Stanground. 
Staundon.    See  Stanton. 
Staunford,  John,  91. 
Staunton.    See  Stanton. 
Staunton,  co.  Gloucester,  122. 

 ,  Staundon,  co.  Hereford,  3,  521. 

Staunton,  Geoffrey,  231. 

 ,  John,  349,  410,  479. 

 ,  Richard,  199. 

 ,  Robert,  97,  104,  142,  287,  350,  405 

517,  619. 

 Thomas,  200. 

Staveley,  co.  Derby,  419. 
Staveley,  William,  241. 
Staverton,  co.  Devon,  503. 
Stavertou,  Ralph,  608. 

 William,  91. 

Stayndrop,  John,  252. 
Staynreld,*Thomas,  320. 
Staynton.    See  Stainton. 
Stebenhith.    See  Stepney. 
Stebbing,  co.  Essex,  297,  424. 
Stede,  Henry,  317,  319,  354. 

 ,  John,  147. 

Stedolfe,  Stydolf,  John,  632. 


GENERAL  INDEX. 


783 


Stedolfe,  Thomas,  104,408,411,  489,  490, 

525,  571,  632,  633. 
Steenhuse,  prince  of.    See  Brugges. 
Steeping,  Stepyng,  co.  Lincoln,  508. 
Steeple  Bumpstead,  co.  Essex,  297,  369,  386, 

560. 

 Morden,  co.  Cambridge,  174,  501. 

Stele,  Richard,  341 . 

 Robert,  214,  277. 

 ,  Thomas,  273. 

Stenyug,  William,  522. 
Stenys,  William,  339. 
Steper,  Henry,  215. 

Stephen,  king  of  England,  charters  of,  369, 

370,  425,  478. 
Stephen,  John,  255,  274. 

 William,  128,  274. 

Stephens,  Stephins,  William,  139,  315,  488. 
Stephenson,  William,  49. 
Stephyn,  Richard,  200. 
Stepiiihith.    See  Stepney. 
Stepneth,  John,  325. 

Stepney,  Stcbenhith,  Stcpinhith,  co.  Middle- 
sex, 28,  274,  281. 
Stepulton.    See  Stapleton. 
Steres,  co.  Devon,  45. 
Steres,  Richard,  123. 

 ,  Alice  his  wife,  123. 

Steresou,  John,  319. 
Stergravc,  Richard,  53. 
Sterky.    Sec  Starky. 
Sterlyng,  John,  3,  318. 
Sterne,  John,  433. 
Stery,  Alan,  235. 
Stevens,  Thomas,  626. 

 .,  Wiliam,  269. 

Stevenson,  George,  433. 

 ,  John,  516. 

  Robert,  571. 

 ,  William,  431. 

Steventon,  co.  Berks,  147. 
Stevers,  John,  362. 
Stevington,  co.  Bedford,  32,  137. 
Stevyn,  John,  274. 
Stevyns,  Richard,  4, 
Steward,  Styward,  William,  436. 
Stewkley,  Stucley,  Stuteley,  co.  Buckingham, 
18,  521. 

Stewton,  CO.  Lincoln,  458,  530. 

Stickford,  Stykford,  co.  Lincoln,  508. 

StilUngton,  Robert,  bishop  of  Hath  and 
Wells  [146G-1491],  and  chancellor, 
87,  111,  132,  188,  190,  234,  241,  263, 
266,  283,  310,  339,  341,  366,  373,  530, 
582,  608,  622,  628,  629,  633. 

 ,  dean  of  St.  Martin  le  Grand, 

London,  99,  234,  310. 

 ,   ,  keeper  of  the  privy  seal,  234, 

310. 

Stirkelondket.    .See  Strickland  Kettle. 


Stirmystermarchall.     See  Sturminster  Mar- 
shall. 
Stobard,  John,  255. 

Stockerston,  Stokcfaston,  co.  Leicester,  113. 
Stockton,  Stokton  by  Lemistre,  co.  Hereford, 
254. 

 ,  CO.  Wilts,  254. 

Stodard,  John,  168. 

 ,  William,  98. 

Stodeley.    See  Studeley. 
Stodfold,  CO.  Wilts,  hundred  of,  587. 
Stodhawe,  Stodawe,   Stodhowe,  John,  225, 
509. 

Stoguraber,  Stokegomere,  co.  Somerset,  193, 

194,  200,  330,  364,  522. 
Stokdale,  John,  216. 
Stoke,  CO.  Gloucester,  303. 
 ,  CO.    Nottingham,    hospital   of  St. 

Leonard,  Edmund  Chaterton,  master 

of,  585. 

  Robert  Sharpuls,  master  of, 

585. 

 ,  CO.  Southampton,  94. 

  [co.  Suffolk],  225,  .326. 

  Albany,  Stoke  Dawbeney,  co.  North- 
ampton, 26,  27,  517. 

  Bardoli)h,  co.  Nottingham,  291,  511. 

  Bruern,  co.  Northampton,  190. 

  Courcy,  co.  Somerset,  324. 

  Uamerel,  co.  Devon,  109. 

 Dawbeney.    See  Stoke  Albany. 

Stokefaston.    See  Stcckerstou. 

Stokegomere.    See  Stogumber. 

Stoke  Michell,  co.  Somerset,  458,  530. 

  by  Nayland,  co.  Suffolk,  183,  320, U87, 

516. 

  Poges,  CO.  Buckingham,  152. 

  St.  George,  co.  Somerset,  326. 

  Verdon,  co.  Wilts,  397,  541,  562. 

Stoke,  Stokys,  Stooke,  Richard,  53,  291,  579. 
 ,  William,  153. 

Stokes,  Stokys,  John,  88,  126,  248,  249,  625. 

  Robert,  323. 

 ,  prior  of  Ivychurch,  15. 

 ,  Thomas.  381. 

  Walter,  257. 

Stokes  Bay,  co.  Southampton,  57,  101. 
Stokesby,  co.  Norfolk,  499. 
Stokhall,  Gilbert,  215. 
Stokke,  William,  601. 
Stokker,  Henry,  503,  596. 

 John,  492,  596. 

 Walter,  435,  498. 

 ,  Agnes  his  wife,  435,  498. 

 ,  William,  307,  509,  596. 

 ,   ,  sheriff  of  London  and  Middle- 
sex, 437,  439,  450,  468. 
Stokton,  John,  500. 

 mayor  of  London,  241,  365, 

271,  278. 
 Thomas,  484. 


784 


GENERAL  INDEX. 


Stokwell.      ee  Stowell. 
Stomaii,  Eobert,  404. 
Stompe.    See  Stamp. 
Stonbery.    See  Stanbery. 
Stondon,  co.  Bedford,  191. 
Stone,  CO.  Buckingham,  309. 

 ,  CO.  Kent,  584. 

 ,  CO.  Somerset,  hundred  of,  32,  137. 

Stone,  Henry,  301. 

 ,  Henry  atte,  546. 

 John,  3. 

 ,  ,  Agnes  his  wife,  3. 

 ,   ,  sheriff  of  London,  161. 

 ,  Philip,  592. 

 ,   ,  Joan  his  wife,  592. 

 ,  Robert,  197. 

 ,  Roger,  577. 

Stoneham,  Robert,  580. 

Stonehouse,  co.  Gloucester,  381. 

Stoneleigh,  Stonley,  co.  Warwick,  abbot  and 

convent  of,  11,  64,  410. 

 ,  William,  abbot  of,  11,  64,  410. 

Stoner,  Stonore,  John,  56. 

 ,  Thomas,  248,  249,  285,  350,  406, 

625. 

Stones,  Stonys,  John,  141,  323,  502. 

 ,   ,  parson  of  Rugby,  5. 

Stonesfield,  Stanesfeld,  co.  Oxford,  17,  117, 
241,  244,  364,  422,  510,  543.  567,  673. 
Stonford,  John,  76. 

Stonham  Aspall,  co.  Suffolk,  225,  326. 

Stonley.    See  Stoneleigh. 

Stonlond,  co.  Cornwall,  58. 

Stonton  Barry.    See  Stanton  Barry. 

Stony  Stratford,  co.  Buckingham,  322,  584. 

Stooke.    See  Stoke. 

Stoppiisley,  Richard,  446. 

Stopsley,  Stoppisle,  co.  Bedford,  326. 

Storche,  John,  354. 

Story,  Edward,  592. 

 ,   ,  bishop  of  Carlisle  [1468-1478], 

134,  190,  347,  366,  523,  567,  609,  610, 
615,  616,  627,  636. 

 ,   ,  chancellor  of  Cambridge  Uni- 
versity, 609. 

Storour,  Robert,  397. 

Stortford,  co.  Essex,  131. 

Storthwaite,  co.  York,  115. 

Storton.    See  Stourton. 

Stotfold,  CO.  Bedford,  191, 

 ,  CO.  Wilts,  hundred  of,  138. 

Stotfold,  Walter,  148. 

Stoughton,  Thomas,  321,  592. 

 ,  William,  231. 

Stourmouth,  co.  Kent,  42. 

Stourmyster.    See  Sturminster. 

Stourton,  Storton,  co.  Stafford,  242,  346,  513, 
530. 

 ,  CO.  Wilts,  343. 

Stourton,  Sturton,  John,  372, 


Stourton,  John,  lord  of,  7,  284. 

 ,  Reginald,  208,  218,  294. 

 Richard,  490. 

 ,  William,  459. 

   ,  of  Stourton,  126,  128,  196,  219, 

220,  284,  350,  351,  372,  522,  551,  552. 
573,  613,  628,  629,  635. 

Stour  Westevere,  co.  Dorset,  223,  385. 

Stouting,  Stowtyng,  co.  Kent,  hundred  of, 
300. 

Stow  Bardolph,  Stowebardolf,  co.  Norfolk. 
34. 

Stowe,  prebend  of,  313. 

 by  Lincoln,  co.  Lincoln,  315. 

 St.  Mary,  co.  Lincoln,  316. 

 ,  CO.  Stafford,  82, 

  St.  Edward,  co.  Gloucester,  347. 

Stowe,  John,  abbot  of  Ramsey,  107. 
Stowell,  Stokwell,  co.  Gloucester,  10. 
Stowell,  Robert,  193,  196,  200,  350,  406,  490, 
522,  533,  628. 

 ,  Thomas,  220. 

Stower,  Robert,  284. 

Stowmarket,  co.  Suffolk,  382,  578,  581. 

Stowtyng.    See  Stouting. 

Stow  Wood,  Stowode,  co.  Oxford,  forest  of, 
159. 

Stoyle,  Thomas,  609. 

Stradlyng,  Edward,  522. 

Stralsund,  Stralissounde,  493. 

 ,  ship  called  le  Christofre  of,  493. 

Strangbou,  Robert,  435. 

Strangilspitill,  co.  Lancaster,  456. 

Strangways,  James,  55,  102,  103,  200,  218, 
349,  408,  637,  638. 

 ,  ,  sheriff  of  York,  177. 

 ,  Robert,  218. 

Strangwiche,  Thomas,  186. 

 ,  Eleanor  his  wife,  186. 

Strangwissh,  Nicholas,  459. 

Stratford  Langthorne,  co.  Essex,  abbot  and 
convent  of,  106. 

  atte  Bow,  co.  Middlesex,  463,  580. 

 ,  by  Holton,  co.  Suffolk,  579. 

  on  Avon,  co.  Warwick,  4,  42,  49, 

293,  331. 
Stratford,  Richard,  145. 
Stratton,  co.  Bedford,  400. 

 ,  CO.  Cornwall,  58. 

 ,  CO.  Norfolk,  562. 

  St.  Margaret,  St.  Margaret  Stretton, 

CO.  Wilts,  160,  266. 

 ,  priory  of,  240. 

  And  see  Stretton. 

Stratton,  Dan  John,  prior  of  Farleigh,  97. 

 ,   ,  prior  of  Wenlock,  109. 

 ;  Thomas,  clerk  of  the  works,  18,  96 

337, 348.  ' 

Straunge,  John,  293. 

 J  ,  clerk  of  the  works,  544. 


GENERAL  INDEX, 


785 


Straunge,  John,  lord  of,  9,  198,  318,  349,  405, 
429,  622,  62C,  627,  634. 

 ,  Ealph,  304. 

 Thomas,  258. 

Stray nesham.    See  Strenshain. 
Stieat,  Strete,  co.  Sussex,  192. 
Streatley,  Stretele,  co.  Berks,  77,  588. 
Streche,  John,  81. 

Street,  Strete,  co.  Kent,  hundred  of,  300. 

 ,  CO.  Somerset,  75. 

Streethay,  co.  Stafford,  16. 

Strekelondys  Moyte,  in  Compton  Chamberlain, 

CO.  Wilts,  534. 
Strelley,  co.  Nottingham,  372. 
Strelley,  John,  342,  498. 

 ,   Margaret  his  wife,  342. 

 ,  Nicholas,  411, 

 ,  Robert,  218,  247,  025. 

 ,  sheriff  of  Nottingham  and 

Derby,  372. 
Strensham,  Straynesham,  co.  Worcester,  2G2. 
Strete.    See  Street. 

Strete,  John,  parson  of  St.  Blaise,  274. 

 ,  Thomas,  319. 

Stretford.    See  Stratford. 

Stretele.    See  Streatley. 

Stretley.    See  Streatley. 

Stretton,  co.  Rutland,  93. 

  [co.  Stafford],  95. 

  on  Dunsmore,  Stratton  on  Dunnes- 
more,  CO.  Warick,  331. 

Streuley.    See  Strelley. 

Strickland  Kettle,  Stirkelondket,  co.  West- 
moreland, 45,  106,  177,  334,  531. 

Sti-iklaud,  Strykland,  Styrklaud,  Thomas, 
288,  334,  350, 426,  606,  635. 

Strode.    See  Strood. 

Strode,  Richard,  23,  327. 

 ,   ,  Margaret  his  wife,  327. 

 William,  23,  285,  403,  404. 

Strodewater.    See  Stroud. 

Strood,  Strode,  co.  Kent,  147,  209,  433,  445, 
502,  516. 

 ,  hospital  of  St.  Mary  at,  Richard 

Brakynburgh,  master  of,  209. 
Strossis,  Louis,  74. 

Stroud,  Strodewater,  co.  Gloucester,  577,  581. 
Strumpshaw,  Strumpeshall,  co.  Norfolk,  34, 
132. 

Strykland.    See  Strikland. 
Stubbes,  John,  328,  571. 

 ,  ,  prebendary  of  Cntton,  212. 

Stucle,  Stukley,  James,  497,  572. 

 ,  John,  8,  406.  617. 

 ,  Richard,  414. 

Stucley.    See  Stewkley  ;  Stukeley. 
Studfalde,  John,  vicar  of  Brayton,  1. 

Studlej,  Stodeley,  co.  Warwick,  piior  and 

convent  of,  471.  | 
 ,  Richard  Wode,  prior  of,  471.  J 

y  96186, 


Stukeley,  Stucley,  co.  Huntingdon,  448, 

Stukeley,  John,  199,350. 

Sturgeon,  John,  57,  199,  219,  226,  285,  348, 

350,  365,  399,  407,  428,  440,  542,  603, 

605,  607,  617. 

 ,   ,  sheriff  of  Cornwall,  110. 

 ,  Richard,  49,  228,  237. 

Sturminster    Marshall,  Stirmystermarchall, 

CO.  Dorset,  162,  520, 
Sturmy,  William,  551, 
Sturston,  John,  276. 
Sturton.    See  Stourton. 
Stuteley.    See  Stewkley. 
Stuttecombe,  co.  Devon,  187. 
Style,  George,  385, 

 ,  Thomas,  609. 

Styler,  John,  501. 

Sty lyng,  William,  61. 

Styrkland.    See  Strikland. 

Styrrup,  Storop,  co.  Nottingham,  460, 

Styuecle,  John,  499. 

Sty  ward.    .See  Steward. 

Suaynhurn.    See  Swanbourne. 

Subsidy  of  tonnage  and  poundage,  15,  59,  91, 

"l06,  107,  122,  158,  167,  108,  175,  181, 

216,  230,  231,  268,  269,  337,  374,  375, 

422,453,  469,  528,  553,  554,  509,  584, 

592. 

 from  aliens,  94,  95,  110,  157,  387. 

  of  wools,  &c.,  11,  15,  31,  53,  59,  85, 

87,  91,  96,  108,  107,  168,  239,  268, 

269,  357,  422,  438,  445,  452,  469,  SOO, 

553,  554,  592. 
  and  ulnage  of  cloth,  233,  238,  265, 

328,  329,  333,  335,  317,  348,  392,  570. 
Subtusmylnebek.    See  Miluthorpe. 
Sudborough,  Sudburgh,  co.  Northampton,  147. 
Sudbourn,  Sutld)uru,  co.  Suffolk,  110. 
Sudbury,  co.  Suffolk,  88,  473. 
 ,  college  of,  Henry  Sethyng,  master  of, 

320. 

Sudbury,  John,  122,  528,  595. 
Sudeley,  lord  of.  See  Boteler. 
Suette,  William,  573. 

Suffolk,  county  of,  19,  .07,  54,  56,  61,  87,  88, 
90,  98,  100,  159,  184,  191,  196,  197. 
199,  206,  218,  232,  246,  248,  250,  329, 
348,  3.52,  353,  406,  408,  430,  462,  490, 
492,  494,  496,  513,  525,  545,  552,  563, 
594,  605,  606. 

 ,   ,  sheriff  of,  20,  56,  159,  197, 

242,  249,  252,  352,  400,  462,  4  90,  492, 
494,  552,  605. 

 ,   .i4»ici  see  Hevcnyngham  ;  Ree. 

 ,  escheafor  in,  98,  107,  186,  227, 

298,  373,  400,  470,  597. 

 ,          And  see  Pclly  ;  Grey  ;  Clere  ; 

I'cstell. 

 ,    outlawries  in,  4,  6,  76,  78, 

82,  144,  146,  149,  183,  202,  203,  225. 
254,  255,  257,  320,  321,  324-326,  380, 
382,  431,  434,  435,  498,  499,  502,  504. 
575,  579,  581. 

3  D 


786 


GENERAL  INDEX. 


Suflfolk,  county  of,  subsidy  and  ulnage  of 
cloth  in,  329,348,  478. 

 ,  commissions  of  the  peace  in,  630. 

Sulliugton,  CO.  Sussex,  203. 
Sulwath.    See  Solway. 

Sulyard,  John,  136,  246,248,  352,353,  366, 
403.  406-408,  509,  524,  606,  614-616, 
628^  631,  636. 

Sulyhull.    -See  SohhuU. 

Suiibrick,  Sonbvek,  co.  Lancaster,  456. 

Sundi-idge,  Suudryssh,  co.  Kent,  41,  318. 

Surfleet,  co.  Lincohi,  297,  560. 

Surgeon,  Thomas,  384. 

Surlingham,  co.  Norfolk,  191. 

Surrey,  county  of,  61,  87,  88,  101,  103,  192, 
196,  218,  222,  232,  246,  248,  299-301, 
329,  348,  351,  405,420,  430,  462,  492, 
496,  505. 

   ,  sheriff  of,  124,  252,  261,  289, 

351,  405,  492,  505. 
 ,    And  see  ; '  Husee  ;  Vaghau  ; 

Craynesford  ;  Leukenore  ;  St.    Legcr  ; 

Echyngham. 
 ,    under  -  sheriff    of.  See 

Brygger. 

 ,   ,  escheator  in,  206,  350,  391, 

472. 

 ,    Atid  see  Wyugefeld;  Fust; 

Flemmyng. 

 ,   ,  outlawries  iu,  1,  2,  4,  5,  7, 

10,  77,  79,  146,  164,  178,  224,  226, 
253,  320,  322,  323,  362,  374,  382,  436, 
500,  575. 

 ,   subsidy  and  ulnage  of  cloth  in, 

329,  348,  478. 

 ,   ,  commissions  of  the  peace  in, 

631. 

  ,  bailiwick  of,  452. 

Survyour,  Walter,  101. 

Sussex,  county  of,  55,  87,  101,  193,  196,  199, 
218,232,  247,  249,  302,329,  348,  351. 
395,  406,  420,  430,  455,  4G2,  489-492, 
496,  571. 

 sheriff  of,  43,  55,  124,  199,  253, 

261,  351,  406,  489,  490,  492,  505. 

  And    see  Husee;  Vaghan"; 

Gaynesford ;  Leukenore ;  St.  Leger. 

 ,  escheator  iu,    241,  278,  360,  391, 

597. 

  And  see  VVyngefeld ;  Fust; 

Flemmyng. 

 ,    outlawries  in,  225,  226,  322, 

324-326,  357,  384,  432,  437. 

 .,  subsidy  and  uinage  of  cloth  in, 

329,  318,  478. 

 ,   ,  commissions  of  the  peace  in, 

632. 

Siitbury,  Dan  Thomas,  prior  of  St.  Andrew's, 

Northampton,  415,  418. 
Suthburu.    See  Sudbourn. 
Sathcotes,  Nicholas,  250,  251. 
Suthertyng.    See  Hartiug. 
Suthteyguc.    See  Teign. 


Suthwerk.    See  Southwark. 
Suth  worth.    See  South  worth. 
Sutton,  prebeud  of,  551. 

 ,  CO.  Bedford,  507. 

 ,  CO.  Kent,  109. 

 ,  CO.  Lincoln,  297,  508,  543,  567. 

 ,  CO.  Northampton,  27,  517. 

 CO.  Somerset,  264. 

 CO.  York,  457,  529. 

 ,  in  the  Isle  of  Ely,  co.  Cambridge, 

320. 

 Valence,  co.  Kent,  389. 

.,.  in  Holland,  co.  Lincoln,  203. 

 by  Chiswick,  co.  Middlesex,  155. 

 ,  King's,  CO.  Northampton,  580. 

 ,  ,  prebend  of,  580. 

 on  Trent,  co.  Nottingham,  18. 

 Maddock,  co.  Salop,  397,  541. 

  in  Ardern,  co.  AVarwick,  209.' 

  on  Derwent,  co.  York,  299,  417,  483, 

486,  487,  581. 

 in  Galtres,  co.  York,  483,  486,  487. 

Sutton's  [in  Stapleford  Tawney],  co.  Essex, 

554. 

Sutton,  EHzabeth,  431. 

 ,  Master  Henry,  rector  of  Corfe  Castle, 

43. 

 ,  John,  51,  256,  276,  303. 

 ,  ,  prior  of  the  CarmeHte  friars  of 

Doncaster,  375. 

 ,  John  de,  70. 

 ,  ,  Margaret  his  wife,  70. 

  John,  lord  of  Dudley,  7,  54,  55,  69, 

70,  102,  103,  171,  195,  196,198,  219, 

284,  348,  350,  351,  353,  403,  490,  560, 

612,  615,  627,  629,  630,  636. 
.,,  ,  constable  of  the  Tower  of 

London,  45,  412. 

 ,  Oliver,  158,  414,  564,  570, 

 ,Eicliard,  168,  625. 

 ,  Richard  de,  70,  92. 

 ,  Robert,  199,  202,  316,  350,  477,  625. 

 ,   ,  of  Arom,  407,  625. 

 ,  William,  master  of  the  hospital  of 

Burton  St.  Lazarus  of  Jerusalem  in 

England,  405,  501,  618. 

 ,  ,  p.arson  of  Gresford,  538. 

Swaby,  co.  Lincoln,  508,  577. 

Swafiham,  Swaveham,  co,  Cambridge,  297.' 

 ,  Earl's,  538. 

  Bulbeck,  Nunswapham,  4. 

 ,  CO.  Norfolk,  457,  530. 

Swafham,  John,  bishop  of  Bangor  [1376- 

2398], 134. 

Swainsthorpe,    Swaynesthorp,   co.  Norfolk, 
191. 

Swale,  Swaille,  river,  572. 
Swalecliffe,  Swalechyne,  co.  Kent,  303. 
Swallowfield,  Swalowefeld  [co.  Berks],  241. 

Swampton,    Swaumpton,   co.  Southampton, 
534. 


GENERAL  INDEX. 


787 


Stran.JoliD,  116,216,310,319. 

 Richard,  355. 

 Robert,  117,  434. 

 ,  Thomas,  573. 

 ,  William,  302,  463. 

Swanborough,  Swanbergh,  co.  Wilts,  hundred 

of,  13S,  587. 
Swanbourne,  Suaynburu,  co.  Buckingham, 

135. 

Swancote,  John,  83,  166,  172,  180,  206,  269, 
363. 

 ,  ,  Alice  his  wife,  180. 

Swans,  127,  222,  235,  352. 
Swansea,  Swaynesey,  co.    Glamorgan,  163, 
191. 

Swansey,  Richard,  448. 

Swantou,  Swenyngtou,  co.  Norfolk,  23,  387. 

Swarfelde,  Laurence,  87. 

Swaumpton.    See  Swampton. 

Swaveham.    See  SwafFham. 

Swayne,  Sweyne,  Alice,  91. 

 ,  Henry,  220,  282. 

 ,  James,  91. 

 ,  John,  302. 

 ,  Robert,  578,  589. 

 ,  William,  90,  91,  197,  282,  575. 

 ,  ,  Cristiana  his  wife,  91. 

Swaynston,  John,  434. 

Swefling,  Swyftlyng,  co.  Suffolk,  110. 

Swenyngton.    See  Swantou. 

SwepstOD,  CO.  Leicester,  225. 

Swere.    See  Swire. 

Swerendon,  Swyrynden,  William,  6. 

Swete,  Thomas,  13,  32,  33. 

 ,  ,  Joan  his  wife,  13,  32,  33. 

Sweyndon.    See  Swindou. 
Sweyne.    See  Swayue. 
Swiliard,  John,  179. 

Swilleyo,  Louis  de,  prior  of  St.  Mary,  Charite 

sur  Loire,  274. 
Swillington  [co.  York],  199. 
Swillynton,  William,  199. 
Swindon,  Sweyndon,  co.  Wilts,  400,  411,  541, 

562. 

 ,  Ilye  Swyndon,  384. 

Swineshead,  Swynyshed,  co.  Lincoln,  503. 
Swinford,  Swyudford,  co.  Leicester,  443. 
Swire,  Swere,  co.  Dorset,  457,  529. 
Swyft,  Thomas,  2. 
Swyfte,  John,  442. 

 ,  William,  87,  362. 

Swyftlyng.    See  Swefling. 
Swynarton.    See  Swynnertou. 
Swynbourne,  Swynborn,  John,  463,  605. 

 ,  Miles,  214,  277. 

Swyndford.    See  Swinford. 

Swyndon,  co.  Devon,  343. 

Swynnerton,  Swynarton,  John,  233,  402. 

Swyushed,  Robert,  420,  421. 

Swynton,  Thomas,  abbot  of  Fountains,  602. 


Swyrynden.    See  Swerendon. 
Sybertoft.    See  Sibbertoft. 
Sybson,  William,  509. 
Sydbury.    See  Sidburj-. 
Syde.    See  Side. 

Sydenham,  Sidenham,  John,   33,  126,  522, 
628. 

 ,  ,  sheriff  of  Somerset  and  Dorset, 

95. 

Sydling,  Sytelyng,  co.  Dorset,  36. 
Sydyngbourne.    See  Sittingbourne. 
Syferwast,  John,  568. 

Sygge.  William,  parson  of  Great  Grimsby, 
178. 

Syglesthorne.    See  Sigglesthornc. 
Sylk,  William,  73. 
Sylktou,  John,  553. 
Sylverton,  Nicholas,  586. 
Symaus,  Richard,  21. 
Symkynson,  Richard,  202. 
Symon,  John,  parson  of  St.  John's,  Jersey, 
360. 

 ,  William,  331. 

Symond.    .See  Simond. 
Symondson,  Mark,  252,  303. 
Symson,  John,  214,  277. 

 >   ,  the  younger,  214,  277. 

 ,  Robert,  168,  618. 

SyugletoD,  Robert,  197. 
Synnyngton.    See  Sinnington. 
Synyer,  William,  143. 

Syou,  Sion,  co.  Middlesex,  abbess  and  convent 
of,  238. 

 ,  fraternity  of  the  Holy  Angels  by,  21. 

Sytelyng.  See  Sydling. 
Sytyngbouru,  John,  69. 

 ,   ,  Katharine  his  wife,  69. 

 ,   ,  Margaret  his  wife,  69. 

Syward,  Robert,  68. 

Sywell,  CO.  Northampton,  291,  570. 


T. 

Tackbear,  Tekebare,  co.  Cornwall,  3:2,  58, 
137. 

Tacklcy,  Takley,  co.  Oxford,  226,  374,  382. 
Tacley.    See  Takeley. 
Tadcaster,  co.  York,  279,  378. 
Taddiport,  Tadyporte,  co.  Devon,  30. 
Tadryk,  Archibald,  409. 

Tad  worth,  Tliadforth    [in    Banstoad],  co. 
Surrey,  528. 

Tadyngston.    See  Tattingstone. 

Tailard.    Sec  Taylard. 

3  D  2 


788 


GENERAL  INDEX. 


Tailboys,  Tayltoys,  Robert,  252,  352,  354, 

620,  021; 

 ,  Waltevj  363. 

 ,  William,  esquire,  363. 

 ,  ,  knight,  47,  363. 

Taillour,  Henry,  12. 

 ,  John,  2,  203,  325,  386,  576. 

 ,  Roger,  578,  589. 

 ,  Thomas,  128,  170. 

 ,  William,  2,  202,  212,  576. 

 ,  ,  mayor  of  London,  188. 

  And  see  Taylour. 

Tainton,  Teynton,  co.  Oxford,  67. 

Takebere.    See  Tackbear. 

Takeley,  Tacley,  Taklegh,  eo.  Essex,  318, 

380,  416,  453,  487. 
Talagharn.    See  Laugharne. 
Talbot,  Brian,  285,  352,  619,  626. 

 ,  Christopher,  402. 

 .Edmund,  259,  262,  209,  379,  490, 

571. 

 ,  Elizabeth,  207. 

 ,  Gilbert,  410,  411. 

 ,  George,  fourth  earl  of  Shrewsbury, 

397,  400-402,  410-412,  414,  418,  419, 
421,  437,  439-443,  451,  460,  478,  489, 
539,  541,  543,  557,  561,  562. 

 ,  Henry,  218. 

 ,  Humphrey,  122,  396,  397,  440. 

 ,  John,  256,  602. 

 ,   ,  Joan  his  wife,  256. 

 ,  John,  viscount  Lisle,  49,  51,  79,  167, 

207. 

 ,  ,  Joan  his  wife,  49,  51,  167, 

207. 

 ,  John,  first  earl  of  Shrewsbury,  99. 

 ,  Margaret  his  wife,  49,  51,  79, 

133,  167,  207. 
 ,  John,  second  earl,  41,  99,  131,  133, 

460. 

 ,  ,  Elizabeth  his  wife,  412,  421, 

431,  436,460. 

 John,  third  earl,  29,  99,  133,  170, 

210,  247,  249,  281,  294,  304,  349-351, 
366,  379,  397,  400-403,  408,  411,  414, 
415,  419,  421,  426,  437,  439-443,  460, 
478,  489,  539,  541,  561,  562,  611,  615, 
610,  624,  627,  630,  634,  038. 

 ,  ,  chief  justice  of  North  Wales, 

277,  293. 

 ,   ,  Katharine  his  wife,  397,  541. 

 ,  Margaret,  207,  305. 

 ,  Nicholas,  260. 

 ,  Robert,  515. 

 ,  Thomas,  572. 

 ,   ,  viscount  Lisle,  49,  51,  166, 

207,  219,  276,  305,  520,  615,  628. 

 ,  William,  525. 

Talffern.    See  Arundell. 

Talvargh,  Richard,  389,  390. 

Talvernc.    See  Arundell. 


Tamworth,  co.  Stafford,  117. 

 ,  CO.  Warwick,  9,  74,  242. 

 ,  collegiate  church  of,  prebend  in, 

553. 

 ,   ,  prebend  of  Wilmote  in,  397. 

 ,  ,  dean  of.    See  Bate. 

Tamworth,  John,  285,  619. 

 ,  John  de,  49,  426. 

Tanfeld,  Robert,  28,  30,  70,  158,  161,  617, 
623. 

...   ,   ,  the  elder,  405. 

 the  younger,  6,  8,  9,  81. 

 ,  William,  624. 

Tange,  William,  499. 

Tankard,  Edmund,  crier  in  the  King's  Bench, 
441. 

Tankerd,  William,  6. 

Tanner,  Thomas,  286,  403,  429. 

Tansey,  Richard,  parson  of  St.  Martin  in  the 

Vintry,  London,  330. 
Tanworth,  Tonworth,  co.  Warwick,  50,  117, 

331. 

Tapton,  Hugh,  158. 
 ,  John,  346. 

 ,  ,  rector  of  Bringhurst,  210. 

Tarane  Gunvile.    See  Tarrant  Gunville. 
Tarleton,  Richard,  274. 
Tarporley,  Thorpeley,  co.  Chester,  115. 
Tarrant  Gunville,  Tarane  Gunvile,  co.  Dorset, 
534. 

  Launceston,  TLrant  Launceston,  co. 

Dorset,  48. 

Tarset  Hall,  Tresethall,  co.  Northumberland, 
523. 

Tasley,  Tasseley,  co.  Salop,  134,  397,  541. 
Tate,  John,  192,  213,  316,  519. 

 ,  ,  sheriff  of  London,  161. 

 ,  ,  mayor  of  London,  400,  442, 

467,470,  475. 

 ,  ,  the  younger,  316. 

 ,  Robert,  212,  316. 

Tatersale,  Richard,  73. 

Tattershall,  Tateshall  [co.  Lincoln],  309. 

Tattiugstone,  Tadyngstou,  co.  Suffolk,  297, 

439,  590. 

Taunton,  co.  Somerset,  55,  143,  375,  436, 
498. 

Tauton.    See  Tawton. 

Taverham,  co.  Norfolk,  hundred  of,  83,  159. 

Taverham,  Thomas,  267. 

Taverner,  Nicholas,  350,  635. 

 ,  William,  169,252. 

Tavistock,  Stavestok,  Towestoke,  co.  Devon, 
141,  253,  377,  519. 

 ,  .John,  abbot  of,  94,  612. 

Taweke,  Thomas,  252. 

Tawton,  North,  Northtautou,  co.  Devon,  321. 

 ,  South,  36,  502. 

 ,  Bishop's,  149,  169. 

Taylard,  Tailard,  William,  199,  307, 406,462, 
617. 


G^ENERAL  INDEX. 


780 


Tuylboys.    See  Tailboys. 
Taylour,  Tayler,  David,  401. 

 ,  John,  286,  287,  473. 

 Oliver,  286. 

 ,  Richard,  55,  108. 

 ,  Thomas,  473,  606. 

  And  see  Taillour. 

Taynterel,  William,  rector  of  Kirkby,  215. 
Tayser,  Richard,  214. 

Tebald,  William,  prior  of  Barnwell,  477,  481. 
Tebbe,  Thomas,  356. 
Tebot,  Robert,  215. 
Teddesley  Hay,  co.  Stafford,  233. 
Teffont,  CO.  Wilts,  139,  467.1 
Teignbridge,  Tengbrigge,  co.  Devon,  hundred 
of,  37. 

Teign,  South,  Suthteygue,  co.  Devon,  173. 
Teign  Week,  Tengweke,  co.  Devon,  37. 
Teignmouth,  Tyngraouth,  co.  Devon,  263. 
Teignton,  King's,  co.  Devon,  78. 
Tekebare.    See  Tackbear. 
Tslagharn.    See  Laugharne. 
Tele,  Matiee,  240. 

Telisford,  Telford,  co.  Somerset,  434,  466. 

 ,  hundred  of,  466. 

Temar,  Cecily,  8. 

 ,  William,  8. 

Tempest,  Katharine,  560. 

 ,  Peter,  179. 

 ,  Richard,  355. 

 ,   ,  sheriff  of  Lincoln,  360. 

 ,  Thomas,  361. 

Temple,  master  and  brethren  of  the,  189. 

Temple  Newsom,  co.  York,  153. 

Temple,  William,  163,  473. 

Temporalities,  restitution  of,  15,  16,  35,  39, 
65,  98,  107,  123,  125,  130,  186,  205, 
206,  227,  233,  241,  265,  266,  271,  274, 
278,  279,  292,  296,  398,  330,  332,  333, 
339,  359,  360,  373,  390,  391,  399,  400, 
415,  442,  467,  469,  470,  472,  475,  481, 
5.50,  597,  598. 

Temysdittou.    See  Thames  Dittou. 

Teneham.    See  Teyuhara. 

Tenet.    See  Thauet. 

Tang.    See  Teign. 

Teneham.    See  Teynhaui. 

Tenterdeu,  co.  Kent,  9,  283,  302,  303,  428, 
436,  536. 

 ,  hundred  of,  303. 

Teny,  Walter,  475. 

Terell.    See  TjTell. 

Terling,  Teyrlyuge,  co.  Essex,  228. 

Terouanne,  diocese  of,  89,  125,  177,  260,266, 
272,  274,  275,  313,  358,  482,  538. 

Terrington,  Teuarington,  co.  York,  483,  487. 

Teryngham,  John,  the  younger,  322. 

Teryngton.    See  Torrington. 

Tesdale,  Thomas,  216. 

Test,  William,  parson  of  Moreton,  160. 


Teswell.    See  Treswell. 
Tetbury,  co.  Gloucester,  276. 
Tetford,  Richard,  323. 

 ,  Robert,  573. 

Tethsge,  John,  102. 

Tetsworth,  Tettesworth,  co.  Oxford,  77. 

Teueringtou.    See  Terrington. 

Teutonic  Ilanse,  merchants  of,  473,  519,  540. 

  And  see  Hanse  Almain. 

Teuxbury.    See  Tewkesbury. 
Teversham,  CO.  Cambridge,  551. 
Towe,  David,  55,  57. 

 Henry,  4. 

Tewerslc,  Richard,  578. 

Tewkesbury,   Teuxbury,  Theukesbury,  co. 

Gloucester,  4,  143. 

 battle  of,  374,  470,  562,  585. 

 ,  abbot  and  convent  of,  66,  530,  550. 

 ,  John  Galeys,  abbot  of,  66. 

 John,  abbot  of,  530. 

Tewson,  Edward,  544. 
Tey,  Robert,  468. 

 ,  William,  468. 

Teygc,  Robert,  317,  319,  354. 
Teyugton  Drue.    Sec  Drewsteignton. 
Teynhaiu,  Tenham,  co.  Kent,  324. 

 ,  hundred  of,  303. 

Teynton.    .See  Taintou. 

Teyrlynge.    See  Terling. 

Teyser,  Edmund,  308. 

Tliaccher,  Thomas,  433. 

Thacham.    See  Thatcham. 

Thacham,  Dau  Edward,  prior  of  Ivychurch, 

15,  16. 

Thadfortli.    See  Tadworth. 
Thakstede.    See  Thaxted. 
Thakster,  Robert,  73. 

Thame,  Philip  de,  prior  of  the  hospital  of  St. 

John  of  Jerusalem  in  England,  189. 
Thames  river,  28,  93,  101,  161,  217,223,  235, 

244,  250,  252,  288,  463,  463,  495,  512, 

521,  525,  540. 

 weirs  across,  HI,  188. 

Thames   Ditton,  Temysditton,  co.  Surrey, 

339. 

Thanet,  Tenet,  Isle  of,  co.  Kent,  38,  108, 
143. 

Thatcham,  Thacham,  co.  Berks,  482. 
Thaxted,  Thakstede,  co.  Essex,  255,  318,  367, 
489. 

Theddlethorpe,  Thedilthorpe,  co.  Lincoln,  202, 

508,  528,  595. 
Thelbridge,  Thelbrygge,  co.  Devon,  52. 
Thelnctham,  Richard,  322. 
Themclthorpe,   Themylthorp,    co.  Norfolk, 

I  49. 

Themse,  Agues,  445. 

 ,  Robert,  445. 

 William,  445. 

Themulby,  Tliymylby,  Richard,  286,  354. 


190 


GENERAL  INDEX. 


T]ieoia,  Eichard,  102. 
Therlowe.    See  Thurlow. 
Thersk.    See  Thryske. 

Thester  Waver,  Thestre  Waury,  co.  Warwick, 
135. 

Thetford,  co.  Norfolk,  78. 

 ,  priory  of,  ]  91. 

Thetyltborpe,  John,  164. 

Thetyngdon.    See  Cheddington. 

Theukesbury.    See  Tewkesbury. 

Thewe,  David,  55,  57. 

Thirkeld,  Thykeld,  Lancelot,  287,  288. 

Thirkleby,  Thorkilby,  co.  York,  5. 

Thirnyng,  William,  justice  of  the  Bench,  37S. 

Thirsk,  Thryske,  co.  York,  178. 

Thirske.    See  Thryske. 

Thistelden,  Robert,  882. 

Thomas,  Clement,  278. 

 ,  Henry,  parson  of  Cricksea,  386. 

 ,  John,  149. 

 ,  Richard,  chaplain  of  the  chantry 

under  le  Croft  in  Christ  Church,  Can- 
terbury, 388. 

 ,  Walter,  585. 

 ,  William,  53,  149. 

 ap  Griffith,  360. 

 ap  Resser,  54. 

Thomelynson,  John,  515. 

Thommeson,  John,  328. 

Thomson,  Tomson,  Gilbert,  344. 

 ,  Giles,  361. 

 ,  John,  214,  216,  277,  546,  578. 

 ,  Thomas,  514. 

 Walter,  585. 

 William,  556. 

Thoralby,  co.  York,  483,  486,  487. 
Thoresway,  Thureswey,  co.  Lincoln,  310,  518, 
523. 

 ,  Thursway  Beaumont,  19. 

Thorkilby.    See  Thirkleby. 
Thorlesthorpe,  co.  York,  483,  486. 
Thomam,  Edward,  245. 
Thoruburgh,   Thorneburgh,    Edward,  287, 
635. 

 ,  Leonard,  28,  200,  285,  289,  352,  354, 

619,  620. 

 ,  ,  sheriff  of  Lincoln,  362. 

 ,  Oliver,  334. 

 ,  Roland,  264,  424,  610. 

Thornbury,  John,  391. 
Thornby,  co.  Cumberland,  13. 
Thorndon,  Richard,  52. 

 ,  Thomas,  2,  161,  295. 

Thorne,  Thourn  [co.  York],  310. 
Thorneburgh.  See  Thornburgh. 
Thornebury,  co.  Bedford,  235. 

Thornewodis,  in  Sherwood,  co.  Nottingham, 
447. 

Thorney  Millc,  co.  Cambridge,  170. 


Thornham,  Simon,  prebendary  of  St.  Mary's, 

Norwich,  357. 
Thornoure,  Robert,  81. 

Thornton,  Thorneton,  co.  Buckingham,  112, 

267,  390. 

 ,  CO.  Devon,  32, 137. 

  [co.  Lancaster],  334. 

 ,  CO.  Lincoln,  297. 

 ,  CO.  Northumberland,  523. 

 ,  CO.  York,  31,  46,  50,  384,  531. 

  in  Craven,  co.  York,  20,  419,  602. 

 in  Pykerynglyth  [co.  York],  2,  206. 

Thornton,  John,  vicar  of  West  Thurrock, 

537. 

 ,  ,  parson  of  North  Cove,  537. 

 ,  Roger,  197,  317. 

 ,  Thomas,  78. 

Thornys,  Thomas,  521. 

Thorpe,  ship  called  la  Kateryn  of,  525. 

 ,  CO.  Essex,  91. 

 ,  CO.  Norfolk,  191. 

 ,  CO.  Northampton,  531. 

 Malsor,  Thorpe  Mallesore,  co.  North- 

ampton,  30. 

 Salvin,  co.  York,  77. 

Thorpe  Hall  by  Louth,  co.  Lincoln,  523. 
Thorpe,  John,  216,431. 

 ,  Robert  de,  602. 

 Thomas,  564,  586. 

Thorpeley.    See  Tarporley. 
Thorpwaterfield,  co.  Northampton,  582. 
Thoryndon,  Thomas,  295. 
Thorysby,  John,  519. 
Thothorpe.    See  Towthorpe. 
Thourn.    See  Thorne. 
Thrale,  John,  the  elder,  446. 
Thrandeston,  co.  Sufifolk,  384. 
Threckingham,  co.  Lincoln,  261. 
Threlkeld,  Thrilkeld,  John,  379. 

 ,  Richard,  215. 

 ,  William,  31,  100,  377. 

Thressher,  Peter,  355. 
Thrilkeld.    See  Threlkeld. 

Throckmorton,  Throkmarton,  co.  Worcester, 
20. 

Throgmerton,    Throkmarton,  Christopher, 
475. 

 ,  John,  65,  152,  262,  344,  345,  430, 

475. 

 ,  Robert,  531,  606. 

 ,  Thomas,  20,  29,  218,  346,  350,  636. 

 ,   ,  sheriff  of  Warwick  and  Lei- 
cester, 136. 
Thrower,  William,  251. 
Throwley,  Thrule  [co.  Kent], 291, 
Throxenby,  Thurstanby,  co.  York,  541. 
Thrule.    See  Throwley. 
Thrustanby,  Trusteuby,  co.  York,  279. 
Thrybergh,  co.  York,  578. 
Thrykhed,  Lancelot,  610. 


GENJJRAL  INDEX. 


791 


Thrj'llby,  John,  280.] 
Thrypplowe.    See  Triplowe. 
Thryske.    See  Thirsk. 
Thryske,  Tliirske,  John,  435. 

 ,   ,  mayor  of  York,  316. 

 ,   ,  mayor  of  the  staple  of  Calais, 

22,  270,  316. 
  treasurer   and  victualler  of 

Calais,  22,  96,  270,  303,  316. 
Thureswey.    See  Thoresway. 
Thurger,  John,  223. 

 ,  Thomas,  253. 

Thurland,  co.  Lancaster,  97,  271. 

Thurland,  Thomas,  501. 

Thurlbeer,  Thurlebare,  co.  Somerset,  456. 

Thurlby,  co.  Lincoln,  16,  8.5. 

Thurlby,  William,  125. 

Thurlewynd,  John,  324. 

Thurlow,  Therlowe,  Great,  co.  Suffolk,  152. 

Tlnirlowe,  John,  the  younger,  37. 

Thurrock,  West,  co.  Essex,  3,  537. 

Thursby,  Thuresby,  co.  Cumberland,  83,  81. 

Thurf.by,  Ralph,  521. 

Thurstauby.    See  Throxenby. 

Thurston,  Thurstonton,  co.  Suffolk,  12. 

Thur.ston,  Thomas,  443. 

Thurstone,  William,  575. 

Thursway.    iSee  Thoresway. 

Thurvastou,  co.  Derby,  511. 

Thwaytes,  Thwaites,  Henry,  264,  407,  637. 

 John,  638. 

 ,   ,  vicar  of  Great  Wycombe,  212. 

 ,  Richard,  637. 

 ,  Thomas,  108,  378,  551,  571. 

 ,  ,  chancellor  of  the  Exchequer, 

151,  372,  367. 

 William,  320. 

Thwyer,  Roger,  353. 

Thykeld.    See  Thiikeld. 

Thymylby.    See  Themulb}-. 

Thynden.    See  Fiudon. 

Tibbenhani,  Tykenham,  co.  Norfolk,  582. 

Tibberton,  Tybtou,  co.  Gloucester,  140. 

Tibertis,  Leonard  de,  prior  of  the  hospital  of 

St.  John  of  Jerusalem  in  England, 

189,  232. 

Tickford,  Tykeford,  Tikford,  co.  Buckingham, 

345,  376,  457,  529. 

 ,  priory  of,  62,  376. 

 ,   ,  William  Kirkby,  prior  of,  376. 

 ,   ,  William  de  la  Menerere,  prior 

of,  376. 

Tickhill,  Tikhill,  co.  York,  44G,  448. 
Tid.    See  Tydd. 

Tidenham,  Tudenham,  co.  Gloucester,  112, 
163. 

Tilbury,  East,  co.  Essex,  297. 

 ,  West,  297,  543. 

 ,  Little,  180. 

 by  Clare,  569,  591. 


Tillam,  John,  403. 
Tille,  John,  201,  217. 

 ,  Richard,  6,  300,  525. 

Tiln,  Tylne,  co.  Nottingham,  460. 
Tilney,  Hugh,  619. 

Tilshead,  Tilesbide,  Tydelesehede,  co.  Wilts, 
238,  534. 

Tilstock,  Tilstoke  Parke,  co.  Salop,  402. 
Tilty,  CO.  Essex,  abbot  and  convent  of,  521. 

 Thomas,  abbot  of,  521. 

Tinmowthe.    See  Tyuemouth. 
Tiptoft,  John,  lord  of,  23. 

 ,   ,  Joyce  his  wife,  23. 

 ,  John,  earl  of  Worcester,  17,  23,  28, 

29,41,43,47,  70,  90,  113,  192,  206, 

220,  221,  278,  289,  297,  462,  609,  613, 

628,  629,  033,  634,  636. 
 ,  ,  treasurer  of  the  Exchequer,  23, 

176,  211,  258. 
 ,  ,  constable  of  England,  19,  23, 

43,  205,  207,  559. 
 ,  constable   of  the  Tower  of 

London,  23,  45,  412. 

 ,  steward  of  the  household,  23. 

 ,  ,  chamberlain  of  the  Exchequer, 

207. 

 ,  lieutenant  of  Ireland,  205,  213, 

214. 

  deputy  lieutenant  of  Ireland, 

16,  21,  54,  no,  157,  161,  193. 

 ,   chief  justice  of  North  Wales, 

41.  136. 

 ,   Elizabeth  his  wife,  1 13,  297. 

 ,   ,  Edward  his  son,  297. 

Tipton,  Tippeton,  co.  Devon,  01. 
Tirant.    See  Tarrant. 
Tirell.    See  Tyrell. 

Titchmarsh,  Titmersh,  co.  Northampton,  440. 
Tiverton,  Tyverton,  co.  Devon,  22,  176,  179, 

189,  279,  230,  292,  293,  457,  529. 

 ,  hundred  of,  22,  189,  457,  529. 

 ,  portion  of  Clare  in  the  church  of, 

292. 

Toche,  Thomas,  407,  433. 

Tocotes,  Towcotes,  Roger,  126,  218,  247,  284, 

346,  351,  406,  408,  428,  518,  530,  573, 

597,  035. 
Tocoth,  Thomas,  285.j 
Tod,  William,  382. 

Toddington,  Todyngton,  co.  Bedford,  564. 

Todyngtou.    See  Coddiugton. 

Tofte,  CO.  Lincoln,  503. 

Tofts,  West,  Westoftys,  co.  Norfolk,  579. 

Togill,  Robert,  53. 

Togood,  John,  223. 

Toko,  Thomas,  215. 

Tokehill,  Robert,  583. 

Toker,  John,  377. 

 ,  Louis,  129. 

 ,  William.  74. 

Tele,  Richard,  428. 


792 


GENERAL  INDEX, 


Tollard,  co.  Dorset,  534. 
 ,  CO.  Wilts,  533. 

Toller,  Tolreporcorum,  co.  Dorset,  457,  5  29. 
Toller,  Henrj,  5. 

 ,  Nicholas,  202. 

Tollesbury,  co.  Essex,  169,  252,  288. 
TolleshuntD'Arcy,  Colsond  Darcy,  co.  Essex, 

297,  318. 
Toltingtrow,  co.  Kent,  285. 

 ,  hundred  of,  302. 

Toly,  William,  391. 
Tomma,  Eichard,  518. 
Tommes,  John,  29. 
Torason.    See  Thomson. 
Toniworth,  John,  354. 

Tonbridge,  Tuubrigge,  co.  Kent,  lowey  of, 
300. 

Touford,  Toneford  [in  Thaningtoa],  co,  Kent, 
297. 

Tonge,  Richard,  572. 
Tons,  Alexander,  55. 
Tonworth.    See  Tauvvorth. 
Tony,  John,  102. 
Tood,  Richard,  52G. 

Tooke,  Robert,  6„  76,  87,  147,  148,  325,  433. 
Tooting,  Totying,  co.  Surrey,  308. 

 Bee,  priory  of,  46,  192. 

Topcliffe,  CO.  York,  148,  326. 
Topclyf,  John,'523,  621. 

 ,  Thomas,  621. 

Tope,  John,  60, 

Topsham,  co.  Devon,  31,  55,  324. 

 port  of,  393,  548. 

Topshawc,  Thomas,  355. 

Torbryan,  Torbriau,  co.  Devon,  457,  518,  557. 

Torkyngton,  Henry,  285,  350,  406,  617, 

Torner,  Thomas,  5. 

Torrebak,  John,  515. 

Torringtou,  Teryngton,  Torjngton,  Torryton, 

CO.  Devon,  32,  36,  137. 

 Chepyngtoryton,  323. 

 East,  Esteryngton,  co.  Lincoln,  17, 

125,  423. 
Tostale.    See  Tunstall. 
Totay,  Robert,  434. 

Totnes,  Tottenes,  co.  Devon,  45,  60,  171. 

 ,  Great,  74. 

Totneys.    See  Zouche. 

Totoche,  Tototh,  Totoft,  Thomas,  354,  619. 

Tottenes.    See  Totnes. 

Tottenham,  Totenham,  co.  Middlesex,  26, 

442,  517. 
Totyng.    See  Tooting. 

Ton  .    .See  Tow  . 

Touche,  seal  called,  162. 

de  la  Toure,  Anthony,  271,  20O. 

Tourehill.    See  Tower  Hill. 

Toures,  William,  prebendary  of  St.  George's, 
Windsor,  308. 

Tournay,  diocese  of,  237. 


Tournay,  William,  607. 

 ,  ,  prior  of  the  hospital  of  St.  John 

of  Jerusalem  in  England,  306. 

 ,  ,  preceptor  of  Baddesley,  217. 

Towcester,  Toucestre,  co.  Northampton,  386. 

Towcotes.    See  Tocotes. 

Towe,  Thomas,  escheator  in  Kent  and  Mid- 
dlesex, 162. 

Tower  Hill,  Tourehill,  co.  Middlesex,  111, 
487,  512. 

Towestoke.   See  Tavistock. 

Toweton,  co.  Suffolk,  110. 

Towke,  Touke,  George,  216. 

 ,  Walter,  299. 

Towker,  Touker,  Peter,  40. 

 ,  Richard,  144,  476. 

Towne,  William,  almoner  of  Henry  VI.,  231, 
235. 

Towneley,  Tounley,  Eichard,  426,  572. 
 ,  Thomas,  386. 

Townescnde,  Tounesende,  Roger,  8,  163,  169, 
170,  197,  245,  247,  249,  406,  622. 

 William,  518. 

Towthorpe,  co.  York,  483,  487. 

 on  the  Wold,  483,  487. 

Towton,  CO.  York,  battle  of,  110,  558. 
Toynton,  co.  Lincoln,  508. 

 ,  High,  Overtyngton,  297. 

Traas,  William,  224. 
Trace,  John,  495. 

Tracey's,  Tracies,  in  Stanford  Rivers,  co. 

Esses,  554. 
Tracy,  William,  453. 
TrafiFord,  John,  103. 

 ,  William,  212. 

Traghford,  John,  426. 
Tranas,  Laurence,  141. 

 ,  Nicholas,  141. 

 Ralph,  141. 

 ,  William,  141. 

Traseys,  co.  Kent,  164. 

Trebellam  by  Trelaste,  co.  Cornwall,  224. 

Trebone,  John,  330. 

Trebulcok,  Thomas,  224. 

Trecorme  [in  Quethiock],  co.  Cornwall,  389, 

444. 

Tredirmayn.    See  Trierraain. 

Treeton,  Treton,  co.  York,  412. 

Trefry,  Thomas,  83,  351,  378,  399,  427,  610. 

Trefusis,  James,  491. 

 ,  Oto,  169. 

Tregamur,  Trigameur,  co.  Cornwall,  156, 189, 

280,  457,529. 
Tregarthen,  Thom.'is,  552. 
Tregemelan.    See  Trigamplling. 
Tregose,  Amice,  104. 
Tregulam,  co.  Cornwall,  280. 
Tregunnick,  Tregwyniiek  by  Bogga  Mille, 

CO.  Cornwall,  579. 
Tregury,  Michael,    archbishop    of  Dublin 

[1449-1471],  335. 


GENERAL  INDEX. 


793 


Trehere,  Williain,  vicar  of  St.  Keverne,  104. 

Trelawny,  John,  246,  57.3. 

Trelowarren,  Treleweren,  co.  Cornwall,  157. 

Trelowia,  co.  Coruwall,  457,  529. 

Trelugan,  co.  Cornwall,  156,  280,  457,  529. 

Tremayle,  John,  17,  410,  475. 

Tremayll,  John,  the  elder,  81. 

 ,  ,  the  younger,  81. 

 ,  Thomas,  115,  350,  406,  428,  476,  522, 

553,  628. 
Tremayn,  co.  Cornwall,  389. 
Tremayn,  John,  .399,  403,  404. 
Trenaffa,  co.  Cornwall,  16. 
Trencruke,  co.  Cornwall,  389. 
Trenowith,  John,  200,  399. 
Trent,  co.  Somerset,  84. 

Trent  river,  co.  Nottingham,  132,  2  51,  310, 
311,  462,357. 

 ,  forests  north  of,  258. 

 ,   ,  keeper  of.    See  Richard. 

 ,  forests  south  of,  107. 

Treuthale,  John,  200. 

Trenthgans,  Thomas,  104. 

Trenuwith,  Agnes,  104. 

Trenwathen,  co.  Cumberland,  557. 

Treuythen,  Robert,  427. 

Tresawell,  Thomas,  610. 

Tresell,  co.  Stafford,  79. 

Tresethall.    See  Tarset  Hall. 

Tresham,  Thomas,  5,  30,  60,  478,  493,  540, 

562,  570,  623. 
Tresithuy,  Nicholas  1. 
Tresoderon,  co.  Cornwall,  467. 
Treswell,  TeswcU,  co.  Nottingham,  396. 
Treswethen,  co.  Cornwall,  104. 
Treswithiau,  Trevaswhethan  [in  Camborne], 

CO.  Cornwall,  536. 
Trethewy,  Thomas,  100,  403,  404. 
Tretou.    See  Treeton. 
Trevarliche,  co.  Cornwall,  389. 
Trevaswhethan.    See  Treswithian. 
Trevenour,  William,  400. 

Treverbyu,  Trcvervyu,  co.  Cornwall,  156,  189, 
280,  457,  529. 

Treverbyn  in  St.  Austell,  co.  Cornwall,  581. 

Trevett,  John,  parson  of  Barming,  93. 

 ,   ,  parson  of  Langley,  93. 

Trevilian,  Trevylyan,  Henry,  warden  of  the 
hospital  of  St.  Katharine  by  the  Tower 
of  London,  135. 

 John,  522,  628. 

Trevistau,  William,  553. 

Trevosburgh,  co.  Cornwall,  588. 

Treyry,  Katharine,  114. 

 ,  Thomas,  197. 

Treweblete,  Geoffrey,  3. 

Trewell,  John,  256. 

Trowemon,  Trewnian,  John,  357. 

 ,  Roger,  35,5,  495. 

Trewydna  [co.  Glamorgan],  163. 
y  96186. 


Trielen  (in  Finistere),  in  Brittany,  474. 
Triermain,  Tredirmayn,  co.  Cumberland,  214, 
277. 

Trigamelling  by  Penkelly,  Tregemclan  by 

Peukehowe,  co.  Cornwall,  579. 
Trigameur.    See  Tregamur. 
Trigges  Milles,  co.  Dorset,  534. 
Trigot,  Thomas,  304. 

Trikingham,   Lambert  de,    justice  of  the 

Bench,  465. 
Trim,  Trym  [co.  Meath],  468. 

 ,  abbot  and  convent  of,  275. 

 Christopher,  abbot  of,  275. 

Triploe,  Thrypplowe,  co.  Cambridge,  37. 
Tripp,  John,  chaplain  of '  Ravenserchauntry,' 

in  Lincoln  cathedral,  48. 
Tristram,  Trystram,  John,  216. 

 .William,  21G. 

Trollope,  Andrew,  31. 

Trolugan.    See  Trelugan. 

Trompyngtou.    See  Truraplugton. 

Trompyngton,  Walter,  10. 

Tronage  and  pesage,  134,  166,  204,  206,  216, 

229,  259,  269,  340,  399,  461,  468,  476, 

568. 
Trope,  John,  9. 

Tropnell,  Thomas,  247,  400,  635. 

Trostou,  CO.  Suffolk,  451. 

Trotman,  Richard,  parson  of  Bladon,  213. 

Trotte,  John,  498. 

Trotter,  Robert,  215. 

Trottiscliffe,  Trottesclive,  co.  Kent,  343. 

Troutbeck,  Troutebek    [co.  Westmoreland], 

334,  531. 
Trouttokyshyll.    See  Truddoxhill. 
Trowbridge,  Trowebrygge,  co.  Wilts,  381. 
Trowe,  John,  115. 

Trowe,  AVilliam,  parson  of  Chilton  Canteloe, 
305. 

Troys,  Thomas,  310. 

 ,   eschcator    in    the   county  of 

Southampton,  571. 
Trudale,  John,  286. 

Truddoxhill,  Trouttokyshyll,  in  Nunney,  co. 

Somerset,  401. 
Trumpington,  Trompyngton,  co.  Cambridge, 

10. 

Truuke,  John,  127. 

 ,  Robert,  336. 

Truro,  co.  Cornwall,  104. 

Trusfelde,  in  Wolstanton,  co.  Stafford,  397. 

Trussell,  Arnold,  295,  559. 

 ,  Edmund,  30. 

 ,  Thomas,  196,  199,  306,  618. 

 ,  William,   281,  306,  349,  470,  47  5s 

608. 

Trustenby.    See  Thrustanby. 
Truthale,  John,  297. 
Trye,  John,  407. 
Trygge,  Robert,  597. 
Trym.    See  Trim. 

3  E 


794 


GENERAL  INDEX. 


Tryppe,  John,  79. 
Trystram.    See  Tristram. 
Tu,  Tbomas,  231. 
Tubbe,  John,  60. 
Tubman,  Richard,  428. 
Tudeuham.    Sec  Tidenliani. 
Tudenham,  Margaret,  595. 

 ,  Thomas,  595. 

Tuder,  John,  266. 

Tudor,  Kdmund,  earl  of  Richmond,  334. 

 ,  Margaret  his  wife,  334,  339, 343. 

 Jasper,  earl  of  Pembroke,  26,  59,  87, 

103,  233,  236,  243,  251,  252,  274,  281, 

283,  289,  615,  616. 
TuguU,  Tughull,  Robert,  45,  5.02. 
Tukhill,  Robert,  the  elder,  45. 
Tunbrigge.    Sec  Tonbridge. 
Tunley,  John,  339,  357. 

 ,  Thomas,  386. 

Tunneryspidill.    See  Turners  Piddle. 
Tunstall,  Tostale,  co.  Suffolk,  110. 
 ,  CO.  York,  258. 

Tunstall,  Richard,  97,  177,  271,  573,  583, 

613,  629,  635. 

 ,  ,  chamberlain  of  Henry  VI.,  227. 

 ,  Thomas,  258. 

Tunstalle,  William,  87. 

Turbervile,  John,  rector  of  Faruham,  390. 

Turfyn,  Richard,  203. 

Turk,  William,  255. 

Turke,  John,  302. 

Turnaunt,  Richard,  147,  222,  349. 

Turners  Piddle,  Tuiineryspidill  [co.  Dorset], 

443. 

Turnham  Hall,  co.  York,  20,  419. 
Turnour,  Henry,  406. 

 ,  John,  102. 

 ,  Richard,  437. 

 ,  Walter,  502. 

Turpyn,  Alice,  1. 

 ,  John,  141. 

 ,  Robert,  385. 

 .,  William,  1. 

Turvy,  Turby,  co.  Dublin,  20,  279,  419. 
Tutbury,  Tuttebury,  co.  Stafford,  219,  242, 
291. 

Tuxford,  CO.  Nottingham,  70. 
Twede,  John,  277. 
Twesyll,  John,  453. 

Twigbear,  Twykebearc,  Twybeare,  co.  Devon, 

24,  25,  511. 
Twychener,  John,  417. 
Twyer,  John,  169,  352,  353,  406,  622. 
Twyford,  co.  Buckingham,  519. 

 CO.  Kent,  hundred  of,  302. 

Twygg,  Thomas,  499. 

Twynyho,  Twynowc,  John,  54,  361,  407. 

 ,   ,  eschealor  of  Somerset  and 

Dorset,  361. 

  William,  61.3,  615. 


Twynnyng,  Thomas,  abbot  of  Winchcombe, 
442. 

Twysday,  Thomas,  336,  476. 

Tyberd,   William,    president    of  Magdalen 

college,  Oxford,  557. 
Tybert,  William,  471. 
Tybton.    See  Tibberton. 
Tycohebourue,  John,  629. 
Tydd,  Tid,  co.  Lincoln,  543,  567. 

  Gote,  CO.  Lincoln,  170,  354. 

  St.  Mary,  co.  J^incoln,  297. 

 St.  Giles,  CO.  Cambridge,  297,  560. 

Tydberne,  170. 
Tydelesehede.    See  Tilshead. 
Tydirthay  [co.  York],  1. 
Tykeford.    See  Tickford. 
Tykenham.    See  Tibbeuham. 
Tykhill,  William,  70. 
Tykhull,  Ralph,  414. 
Tyler,  Augustine,  203. 

 ,  John,  383. 

  William,  239,  381. 

 ,  Agnes  his  wife,  381. 

Tylly,  John,  221. 
Tylmyngton,  Walter,  375. 
Tylne.    See  Tiln. 
Tylney,  John,  433. 

 ,  Robert,  354. 

Tymperley,  John,  293,  353. 
Tynbery,  Tynbure,  John,  499. 

 ,   ,  Agnes  his  wife,  499. 

Tyndale,  co.  Northumberland,  451. 
Tyndale,  William,  353. 

Tynemouth,  Tinmowthe  [co.  Northumber- 
land], 330. 

Tyngelden,  Richard,  462. 

Tyngmouth.    See  Teignmouth. 

Typlot,  John,  coroner  of  Kingston  on  Hull, 
305. 

Typper,  John,  577. 
Typpeswayne,  John,  318. 
Typtoft.    See  Tiptoft. 
Tyrell,  co.  Westmoreland,  96. 
Tyrell,  Terell,  Tirell,  Edward,  482. 

 ,  Hugh,  242. 

 Humphrey,  345. 

 ,  James,  492,  606. 

 ,  John,  242,  491. 

 ,  Robert,  345. 

 ,  Thomas,  151,  248,  249,  317,  344,  345, 

351,  407,  428,  491,  509,  613. 

 Walter,  216. 

 ,  William,  169,  252,  614. 

 ,   ,  the  elder,  248,  249. 

 ,   ,  the  younger,  211,  248. 

 ,   ,  Eleanor  his  wife,  211. 

Tyrone,  monks  of,  465. 

Tyryngham,  Thomas,  182,  526. 


GENERAL  INDEX. 


795 


Tystede,  William,  21. 
Tyverton.    See  Tiverton. 
Tywarnaylle  Tees  (in  Perraa  Zabuloe),  co. 
Cornwall,  94,  179. 


u. 

TJflFculme,  Ufcsolme,  co.  Devon,  76. 
Uffenham,  John,  77,  406. 
Uffington,  CO.  Lincoln,  17,  125,  453. 
Ufflete,  John,  prior  of  D rax,  179. 
Ufford,  CO.  SulTolk,  98. 
Ufkelf.    See  Ulleskelf. 
Ugborough,  Uggeburgb,  co.  Devon,  476. 
Ughtred,  Oughtrith,  Ughtryth,  Ralph,  133. 

 Robert,  133,  146. 

 ,   Joau  his  wife,  133. 

 ,  Thomas,  568. 

Uldale,  CO.  Cumberland,  25,  137. 
Ulfrire,  co.  Lincoln,  297. 
Ulleskelf,  Ufkelf,  Uskelf,  co.  York,  291,  292, 
412. 

Ullestoii  by  Ilawkwell,  co.  Northumberland, 

228,  236. 
Ulster,  earldora  of,  395. 
Ulterris.    See  Volterra. 
Umby,  William,  188. 
Umfiey,  Thomas,  228. 
UndfiUe.    See  Oundle. 
Underdowene,  Thomas,  364. 
Underdown,  prebend  of,  234,  260,  265. 
Underwode,  Master  Edward,  parson  of  St. 

Mary  Moises  in  Frydaystrete,  London, 

109. 

 ,  ,  prebendary  of  Bridgnorth,  234, 

265. 

 ,  John,  383. 

Ungerhuudred.    .See  Ongar. 
Ungle,  John,  474. 

 ,  Joan  his  wife,  474. 

 ,  WilHaiu,  401,  409. 

Unton,  Henry,  376. 

 ,  Robert,  438,  451. 

Upchurch,  co.  Kent,  541. 
Upcott,  Uppecote,  co.  Devon,  36. 
Upminster,  co.  Essex,  579. 
Uppecote,  John,  51. 

 ,  ,  Joan  his  wife,  51. 

Upsale,  John,  225,  255. 
Upsall  [co.  York],  200. 
Upton,  CO.  Northampton,  531. 

 ,  CO.  Nottingham,  297,  560. 

 ,  CO.  Southampton,  157. 

 Noble,  CO.  Somerset,  148. 

  Scudamorc,  Upton  Skidmore,  co. 

Wilts,  466. 


Upton,  Henry,  84. 

 ,  John,  222. 

 ,  Robert,  385. 

Upwell,  CO.  Norfolk,  169,  170. 
Upwymborn.    See  Wimborne. 
Urchfont,  Erchesfont,  co.  Wilts,  138,  587. 
Urehinfelde.    See  Irchenfield. 
Ure,  Yore,  river,  572. 
Urswick,  Great,  Lancaster,  456. 

 ,  Little,  456. 

Urswick,  Ursewike,  Christopher,  451. 
 ,  John,  456. 

 ,  Thomas,  12,  28,  103,  169,  248,  249, 

252,  406,  407,  463,  494,  608,  614-616, 
626,  627,  630,  636. 

 ,   ,  chief  baron  of  the  Ex- 
chequer, 259,  293,  307,  514. 

 ,   recorder  of  London,  21,  202. 

Usburn,  Thomas,  warden  of  the  hospital  of 
St.  Nicholas,  York,  15. 

Usk,  CO.  Monmouth,  24. 

Uskelf.    See  Ulle-skelf. 

Ussher,  Thomas,  552. 

Utrecht,  bishopric  of,  184. 

Uttoxeter,  Uttekoestre,  Uttexhater,  co.  Staf- 
ford, 535. 

Uvedal£,  Ovedale,  Thomas,  56,  118,  196,  220, 

351,  405,  429,  629. 

 ,  William,  56,  495. 

Uxbridge,     Wokysbregge,   Woxbrigge,  co. 

Middlesex,  9,  224,  35",  436,  442. 


V. 

Vache  [in  Chalfont  St.  Giles],  co.  Bucking- 
ham, 191. 
Vachery,  co.  Surrey,  22,  68. 
Vacy,  John,  99. 

 Alice  his  wife,  99. 

Vaek,  John,  197. 

Vaghan,  Vaughan,  Roger,  54,  57,  58,  102, 

132,  185,  219. 
 ,  Thomas,  87,  12+,  132,  179,  274,  281, 

283,  317,  351,  366,  414,  455,  496,  608, 

615-618,  622,  627,  628,  632,  6S3,  636. 
 ,   sheriff  of  Surrey  :uid  Sussex, 

87. 

Valauntes,  in  Hartest,  co.  SufiFoik,  556. 
Vale,  John,  parson  of  Rathwere,  465. 

 ,  Thomas,  254. 

 ,  William,  553. 

Valens,  Martin,  72. 

Valet,  CO.  Dorset,  457,  529. 

Vallis,  Valeys,  in  Frome,  co.  Somerset,  603. 

Vampage,  John,  77. 

Vandordrygh.    See  Dordrecht. 


796 


GENERAL  INDEX. 


Vangoos.    See  Goes. 

Vanmelum,  Henry,  42. 

Vaone,  John,  abbot  of  Cerne,  240,  279. 

Vaughan,    See  Vaghan. 

Vaus,  Robert,  38,  433,  572. 

VauK  [in  Belchanip  Otten],  co.  Essex,  560. 

Vaux,  Vawes,  John,  277. 

 ,  Roland,  610. 

 ,  William,  18,  27,  214,  421. 

Vavasour,  Vavesoure,  Henrj',  638. 

 ,  John,  251,  407,  636. 

 ,  ,  the  elder,  428,  636. 

 ,   the  younger,  637. 

Vawes.    See  Vaux. 

Vayle,  Richard,  443. 

Veale,  Vele,  Geofifrey,  7,  580. 

Veer.    See  Vere. 

Vele.    See  Veale. 

Venables,  Hugh,  450. 

  ,  Elizabeth  his  wife,  450. 

Venasque,  Venesse,  Benesse  [in  Spain],  205, 
273,  281,  422. 

Venice,  213,  336,  435,  512,  537,  555. 

 ,  merchants  of,  281. 

Venour,  Elizabeth,  50. 

 ,  William,  364. 

Venton,  Feuton,  co.  Devon,  36.  • 

Venutz,  John  de,  66. 

Vera  Worthy.    See  Virworthy. 

Verdour,  Thomas,  152. 

de  Vere,  Veer,  George,  418,  510,  520. 

 ,   ,  Margaret  his  wife,  520. 

 ,  John,  29,  57,  129. 

 ,  ,  twelfth  earl  of  Oxford,  91,  235. 

 ,   ,  thirteenth  earl,  155,  157,  169, 

170,  195,  197,  245-250,  252,  2!)7,  400, 
418,  489,  507,  510,  538,  543,  54.5,  552, 
560,  563-565,  .007,  569,  591,  609,  610, 
613,  617,  622,  630. 

 ,   Margaret  his  wife,  .507. 

 ,  Nicholas,  491,  494. 

 ,  Richard,  235,  418. 

,.   ,  Robert,  72. 

 ,  Thomas,  317,  418,510. 

Vermandois,  in  France,  583. 

Vermeo,  John  de,  307. 

Vemey,  Edmund,  escheator  of  Warwick,  411, 
430. 

 ,  John,  329. 

 ,  ,  Margaret  his  wife,  329. 

Verney,  Ralph,  33,  :'.09,  329,  394,  608. 

 ,  Richard,  218,  348,  405,  430,  634. 

 William,  4S0. 

Vernon,  Henry,  248,  349,  408,  611,  630. 
Veion,  Richard,  412. 
Versk,  Peter,  104. 
Verundo.    See  Gcrona. 
Vessy,  lord  of.    See  Bromflete. 
Vcxford,    Wexford,    [in    Stogumber],  co. 
Somerset,  193,  194,  200,  330,  364,  522. 


Vibaldes,  Vyvaldes,  Ralph  or  Raphael  de, 

217,  222. 
Viell.    See  Vyell. 

Vielstone,  Vyelleston  [in  Buckland  Brewer] , 

CO.  Devon,  187. 
Villario,  John  de,  parson  of  Campe,  275,  538. 

 ,  ,  parson  of  Pettam,  266. 

Villeeon,  Master  James  de  la,  521. 
Villers,  Vyllers,  John,  621. 

 ,   ,  sheriff  of  Lincoln,  482. 

Vilmyn,  William,  201,  217. 
Virworthy,  Vera  Worthy,  co.  Devon,  36. 
Visier,  Nicholas,  201,  217,  221. 
Volterra,  Ulterris,  in  Italy,  59. 
Vorth,  Roger,  77. 

Vowell,  Richard,  escheator  of  Somerset  and 
Dorset,  589. 

 ,  William,  87. 

Vuton,  Robert,  309. 
Vyell,  Viell,  James,  374. 

 ,  Richard,  36,  332. 

Vyelleston.    See  Vielstone. 
Vyllers.    See  Villers. 
Vyncent,  Guy,  490. 

 John,  382. 

Vynean,  Richard,  157. 
Vj'nter,  Thomas,  1 1 . 

 ,   ,  coroner  and  attorney  of  the 

king  in  the  King's  Bench,  227. 
Vyvaldes.    See  Vibaldes. 
Vyvyan,  Richard,  610. 


w. 

Wachelyngstoue.    See  Washlingstone. 
Wactou,  Wakton,  co.  Norfolk,  191. 
Wadde,  John,  65. 

Waddesdou,  AVoddesdon,  co.  Buckingham, 

38,  480. 
Wade,  John,  503,  525. 

 ,  Thomas,  3  89. 

 ,  William,  308,  309,  428. 

 ,  ,  escheator    of    Bedford  and 

Buckingham,  587. 

Wadeford,  Wodford,  co.  Somerset,  458. 
Wadell,  John,  409. 
Wadesworth,  co.  Cornwall,  386. 
Wadhum,  John,  341. 
Wadnesberie.    See  Wednesbury. 
Wager,  John,  102. 

Wagotte,  Wagctte,  Richard,  303,  393. 
Waghen,  co.  York,  428. 
Wainfleet,  Waynflete,  co.  Lincoln,  322,  469. 
Wait,  John,  74. 


GENERAL  INDEX. 


707 


Wake,  Anne,  598.  • 

 John,  428,  462. 

 ,  Koger,  598,  624. 

 Thomas,  190,  405,  522,  624,  628. 

 ,  ,  sheriff  of  Northampton,  598. 

Wakefeld,  Jolm,  parson  of  Kisingtou  Wick, 
438. 

  Richard,  10. 

Wakefield,  co.  York,  103,  257,  258,  261,  328, 
564. 

Wakeford,  Thomas,  presented  to  Mortymers 
chauDtry  in  Chichester  cathedral,  294. 
Wakering,  co.  Essex,  525. 

 ,  Great,  32,  137. 

 ,  Little,  231. 

Wakerley,  John,  28,  170. 
Wakton.    See  Wacton. 

Walbronde,  John,  prebendary  of  St.  Stephen's, 

Westminster,  547. 
Walcomstowe.    See  Walthamstow. 
Walcote,  CO.  Lincoln,  297,  560. 
Walcote  Esthall,  co.  Norfolk,  508. 

 ,  Westhall,  508. 

Walcote,  John,  620,  621. 

 Richard,  28,  620,  621. 

Waldegrave,  Walgrave,   Whallcsgrave,  co. 

York,  164,  507. 
Walden,  CO.  Essex,  147,  202,  291,325. 

  [co.  York],  483,  487. 

Walden,  John,  109,  120,257. 

 ,  ,  Marjory  his  wife,  257. 

 ,  Thomas,  291. 

Walderuge.    See  Waldridge. 
WaldiflF,  Thomas,  24G,  247,  295,  634. 

  And  see  Waldyeve. 

Waldingfield,  Waldyngfeld,  co.  Suff'olk,  480. 

 ,  Great,  144. 

 ,  Little,  515. 

Waldridge,  Walderuge,  co.  Buckiughaui, 
309. 

Waldyeve,  Waldyeue,  Thomas,  64,  403,  411, 
657. 

  And  see  Waldiff'. 

Waldyngfeld,  Clemeuce,  509. 
Wale,  Edmund,  dean  of  Duuvvich,  362. 
Waleborne.    See  Wellesbourue. 
Walerand,  Robert,  123. 

Wales,  24,  48,  53,  57,  58,  66,  107,  108,  133, 
166,  174,  179,  180,  204,  207,  275,  283, 
294,  365-367.  402,  429,  488,  520,  522, 
525,  539,  561,  570,  574. 

 ,  marches  of,  57,  58,  103,  107,  108, 

133,  163,  180,  181,  191,  207,  252,  275, 
281,  283,  289,  293,  294,  3G7,  427,  429, 
488,  520,  522,  525,  539,  561,  570,  574, 
605,  606. 

 ,  ,  escheator  in,   15,  3S,  60,  83, 

123,  333,  339,  359,  399,  442,  467,  684, 
598. 

 North,  41,  54,  102,  154,  198,  281 

293,  361,490. 

y  96186. 


Wales,  North,  chief  justice  of,  274. 

  And  see  Herbert ;  Tiptoft ;  Ricliard ; 

Talbot. 

 ,           chamberlain  of,  179,  277. 

  And  see  Hastynges  :  Herbert. 

 South,  .54,  57,  110,  136,  172,  198, 

219,  252,  283,  289,  317,  361. 
 ,   ,  chief  ju.stice  of.    See  Herbert ; 

Neville ;  Richard. 

 ,  ,  chamberlain  of,  116,  185,260. 

 ,   And  see  Herbert ;  Neville  ; 

Richard. 

 ,  West,  361. 

Wales'by,  co.  Lincoln,  385. 
Walet,  Richard,  225,  325. 
Waleys,  John,  vicar  of  Boluey,  344. 

 ,  Richard,  225,325. 

 ,  Roger,  320. 

Walford,  co.  Salop,  29. 
Walford,  John,  39,  84,  86,  185. 
Walgrave,  co.  Northampton,  74,  420. 

  And  see  \\'a.\dcgTd\c. 

Walgrave,  Thomas,  100,  246,  218,  338,  353, 

631. 

 ,  William,  338. 

Walkehamstowe.    See  Walthamstow. 
Walkelyn,  John,  286. 
Walker,  John,  134,  142,  184. 

 ,  Robert,  382. 

 ,  Thomas,  604,514,  577. 

Walker,  Thomas,  parson  of  Great  Grimsby, 
178. 

 ,  William,  355,356. 

Walkcrue,  co.  Hertford,  603. 
Wulkhampton,  co.  Devon,  60. 
Walkington,  co.  York,  483.  486,  487. 
Walklyn,  Roger,  254. 
AVallaud,  co.  Kent,  283,  546. 
Walle,  John,  603. 
Waller,  Thomas,  89. 
Wallewen,  John,  459. 
Wallingford,  co.  Berks,  152,  210,  257. 

 charter  dated  at,  370. 

..   ,  dean  of.    Sec  Gefferey. 

Walliugton,  co.  Surrey,  107. 
Wallop,  Nether,  co.  Southampton,  79. 
Wallop.    See  Waloj). 

Wallyngford,  William,  abbot  of  St.  Albans, 
597. 

Walmer,  co.  Kent,  303. 

Walop,  Wallop.  John,  56,  105,  196,  220,  351, 

405,  429,  433,  495,  629. 
Walpole,  CO.  Norfolk,  28,  80. 
Walpole,  Robert,  chaplain  of  the  chnntry 

under    le   Croft   in   Christ  Church, 

Canterbury,  388. 
Walpoll,  Martin,  80. 

Walron,  Walrond,  Thomas,  289,  406,  608, 
626. 

Walschc,  Klias,  chaplain  of  Newton  Popple- 
ford.  376. 

3  F 


798 


GENERAL  INDEX. 


Walshale,  Walsale,  Walshawe,  John,  126. 
Walsham,  co.  Norfolk,  hundred  of,  82,  159. 

 ,  North,  254. 

 ,  South,  191,539. 

Walsingham,   co.    Norfolk,   Thomas  Hunt, 

prior  of,  225,  326. 
 ,  Little,  93. 

Walssh,  Walsshe,  John,  1,  320,   3S1,  380, 
575. 

 ,  ,  escheator  in   the    county  of 

Gloucester,  541. 

 ,  Thomas,  vicar  of  Mordeu,  78. 

 ,  ,  rector  of  Springfield,  78. 

 ,  ,  sheriff  of  Warwick,  7. 

Walsshman,  Eoger,  141. 
Walsyngham,  John,  251. 
Walter,  John,  6,  261,  306,  325,  484,  616. 

 ,  ,  keeper  of  the  hauaper,  233. 

Nicholas,  286. 

 ,  Richard,  501. 

 Thomas,  53. 

Walter  ap  Guillim,  590. 

Walterslode.    .See  Salter's  Lode. 

Waltham  [co.  Essex],  letters  patent  dated  at, 

210,  218. 

 forest  of,  561. 

 ,  Little,  6. 

  ,  CO.  Southampton,  65. 

 Holy  Cross  [co.  Essex] ,  ahbey  of,  469. 

 ,  John    Lucas,  abbot  of,  454, 

469. 

 ,  ,  Thomas    Edward,    abbot  of, 

469. 

 ,  ,  convent  of,  454,  469. 

 ,   ,  charters  dated  at,  115,  121. 

Walthamstow,     Walkehamstowe,  Walcom- 

stowe,  CO.  Essex,  291,  412. 
Walton,  prebend  of,  210,  590. 

 ,  CO.  Essex,  433. 

 ,  CO.  Norfolk,  562. 

  [co.  Suffolk],  charter  dated  at,  119. 

 ,  Wauton,  CO.  Surrey,  237. 

 CO.  York,  2,321. 

 on  le  Wold,  co.  Leicester,  26,  517. 

  on  the  Hill,  co.  Surrey,  241. 

 by  Wille,  co.  Warwick,  135. 

Walton,  John,  123,  130,  354. 

 ,   ,  abbot  of  Oseney,  82,  335,342. 

 ,  archbishop  of  Dublin,  primate 

of  Ireland,  342,  474. 
Walwayn,  Richard,  81. 
Walweyn,  John,  102. 

 ,  William,  220. 

Walwick,  CO.  Northumberland,  523. 
Walworth,  John,  428. 

Walwyn,  Malcolm,  escheator  of  Hereford, 
83. 

Walys,  William,  221. 

Wanhorough,  Wamburgh,  Wandeborough,  co. 
Wilts,  50,  578,  589. 


Wandesdon.    See  Wantesden. 

Wandesford,  William,  33. 

Wandsworth,  Wannesworth,  co.  Surrey,  276, 

308,  462. 
Wanlip,  Onlepe,  co.  Leicester,  598. 
Wannesworth.    See  Wandsworth. 
Wantage  [co.  Berks]  ,  406. 
Wantesden,  Wandesdon,  co.  Suffolk,  110. 
Wappenham,   Wapnam,    co.  Northampton. 

521. 

Warbertou,  Fhilip,  169. 

Warblingtou,  Warbelyugton,  co.  Southamp- 
ton, 432. 

Warbulton,  Richard,  420. 

 ,  Helen  his  wife,  420. 

Warcop,  Robert,  13. 

 ,  Joan  his  wife  ,  13. 

 ,  Thomas,  13. 

Wardale,  John,  52,  86. 

Warde,  Edmund,  577. 

 ,  Henry,  .562,  595. 

 ,  Hugh,  231,  268. 

 ,  John,  2,  166,  380,  389,  390. 

 Robert,  74,  145,  .S40,  577. 

 ,  Roger,  49,  331. 

 ,  Thomas,  122,  402. 

 ,  ,  escheator  of  Leicester,  368. 

 ,  William,  249,  286,  462,  492. 

Wardeboys,  Dan  John,  abbot  of  Ramsey, 
392,  400. 

Warden,  co.  Bedford,  469,  570. 

 ,  monastery  of,  570. 

Wardour,  Wardar,  co.  Wilts,  457,  529. 

Wardrobe,  the,  31,  37,  40,  41,  61,  86,  92,  98, 
100,  113,  182,  184,  186,  188,  237,  261, 
263,  265,  278,  279,  281,  296,  334,  337, 
343,  394,  420,  426,  4.53,  460,  461,  472, 
475,  504,  544,  550,  554,  557,  565,  570, 
590,  597. 

  ,  keeper  of,  188,  237,  589. 

  And  see  TinreU  ;  Cousyn  ;  Say. 

Ware,  co.  Hartford,  100,  251,  420. 

Ware,  John,  250. 

 Nicholas,  356,  377. 

Wareham,  Warham,  co.  Dorset,  434,  579. 

Waren,  Nicholas,  167. 

 ,  Thomas,  582. 

Wareyn,  Richard,  218. 

  Robert,  vicar  of  Great  or  Chipping 

Wycombe,  212,  230. 

 ,  Thomas,  240. 

 ,  William,  213. 

Warfield,  co.  Berks,  148. 

Warham.    See  Wareham. 

Warinton,  Robert,  393. 

Wark,  Werke,  co.  Northumberland,  451. 

Warkworth,  John,  518. 

Warldes,  William,  201,  217. 

Warley,  John,  259,  493. 

 ,  Thomas,  387. 


GENERAL  INDEX. 


799 


Warmborough,  North,  Northwamburgh,  co. 

Southampton,  43.'i. 
Warmingtou,  co.  Northampton,  153. 
Warminster,  Warmcstre,  co.  Wilts,  77,  1.58, 

466. 

Warmston,  co.  Huckiugham,  152. 
Warmyngton,  Philip,  169. 

 ,  Robert,  271,  290. 

Warner,  John,  8 1 . 

 ,  Philip,  578,  589. 

 ,  Thomas,  16. 

 ,  William,  142. 

Warnford,  Wernesford,  co.  Southampton, 
499. 

Warpesden.    See  Worplesdon. 
Warre,  John,  406. 

 ,  Richard,  220,  427. 

 ,  Robert,  522. 

'  Warrewyk,'  herald  of  arms,  261. 
Warrington,   Waryngton    [iu   Olnoy],  co. 

Buckingham,  420. 
Warsop.    iSee  AVorksop. 
Warstlyngworth.    See  Wrestlingworth. 
Warter,  Wartrc,  co.  York,  17,  90,  125,  423. 

 ,  priory  of,  17,  90,  125,  423. 

Warter,  Wartyr,  Edmund,  142,  234. 
Warton  [co.  Lancaster],  334. 
WartoQ,  Geoffrey,  31,  50,  261,  288,  377,  490. 
Warwick,  Warwikkebrig  [co.  Cumberland], 

215. 

 ,  CO.  Warwick,  153,  190,  260,  290,  291, 

331,  385,  606. 
 collegiate  church  of  St.  Mary,  dean 

and  chapter  of,  153. 

 ,  John  Southwell,  dean  of,  386. 

   prebend  of  St.  John  in,  236. 

 ,  charter  dated  at,  425. 

 ,  county  of,  55,  70,  88,  91,  93,  106, 

196,  218,  246,  247,  284,  285,  287,  289, 

292,  294,  329,  348,  359,  401,  403,  405, 

430,  462,  406,  481,  490,  492,  496,  513, 
 ,   ,  sherifiF  of,  64,  284,  287,  289, 

348,  405,  440,  492. 
 ,   And  see  Walssh  ;  Harecourt ; 

Higford  ;    Throgmerton  ;    Wodford : 

Raylegh. 

 ,   escheator  iu,  35,  153,  241,  271, 

278,  292,  333,  391,  416,  442,  475,  598. 

 ,   And  see  Moton  ;   Verney  ; 

Boughton. 

 ,   ,  outlawries  iu,  2,  77,  81,  142, 

143,  226,  293,  323,  324,  384,  386,  448, 
502,  578. 

 ,  ,  subsidy  and  ulnage  of  cloth  in, 

329,  348,  478,  537. 

   ,  justices  of  the  peace  in,  117. 

 ,   commissions  of  the  peace  in, 

634. 

Warwild,  Thomas,  236. 
Warwyke,  Richard,  8,  226. 
 ,   Joan  his  wife,  8. 


Waryn,  Richard,  12. 

 ,  William,  407. 

Waryner,  Richard,  192. 
Waryng,  John,  257. 

Warynges,  Nicholas,  224,  320,  554,  630. 
Waryngton,  Robert,  529. 
Wase,  William,  rector  of  Week  St.  Mary, 
580. 

Washineborough,  Wassingburgh,  co.  Lincoln, 
4^57,  530. 

Washlingstone,  Wachelyngstone,  co.  Kent, 

hundred  of,  300. 
Wasiugburgh.    See  Washingborough. 
Waskeff,  .lohn,  317  319. 
Wasp,  Thomas,  254. 
Waspus,  Thomas,  226. 
Wassingburgh.    See  Washingborough. 
Wassyngham,  co.  Surrey,  276,  308. 
Watcote.    Sec  Whatcote. 
Water,  John,  35,  261,  287,  324. 

 ,  ,  sub-prior  of  MontacutC;  15. 

 ,  Richard,  501. 

 William,  234,  248. 

Waterfall,  William,  499. 
Waterford,  354,  459,  466,  468. 

 ,  citizens  of,  459,  466. 

Waterfulford,  co.  York,  48. 
Waterhous,  John,  573. 

 ,  Richard,  573. 

 ,  William,  573. 

Waterperry,  co.  Oxford,  101, 
Waterton,  Robert,  esquire,  510. 

 ,  knight,  510. 

Watford,  co.  Hertford,  470. 

 ,  CO.  Northampton,  342,  448,  536. 

Watford,  Henry,  255. 
Wathe,  John,  13. 

Watilsburgh.    See  Wattlesborough. 
Watkyns,  John,  112. 
Wallcsburgh,  co.  Middlesex,  77. 
Watliugton,  co.  O.vford,  175. 
Watno,  John,  288. 
Watson,  John,  277. 

 ,  Thomas,  215. 

Watte,  Wattys,  John,  434. 
Wattlesborough,  Watilsburgh,  co.  Salop,  79. 
Wattou,  CO.  Hertford,  176. 

  at  Stono,  Whatton  atte  Stone,  co. 

Hertford,  22,  530,  531. 

 CO.  Norfolk,  203. 

Watton,  Katharine,  298,  373,  376. 

  Robert,  164,  298,  373,  376. 

Wattys.  Richard,  505. 

 ,  Thomas.  307. 

  William,  10. 

Waulton.  Sec  Walton. 
Wanton.    Sec  Walton. 

Wavenden,  co.  Buckingham,  116,  155,  327, 
529. 

 ,  Little,  457 

3  F  2 


800 


GENERAL  INDEX. 


Waver,  Henry,  85. 

Wavton,  John,  108. 

Waweton,  Thomas,  285. 

Waynflete.    See  Waiufleet. 

Waynflcte,  John,  57,  104,  263,  378,  557. 

 ,  William,  bishop  of  Winchester  [1447- 

1486],  43,  63,  64,  130,  158,  259,  293, 
339,  344,  360,  365,  399,  608,  628,  629, 
631,  635. 

Waynesford,  Kichard,  353. 

 ,  William,  33. 

Wayte,  36. 

Wayte,  Edward,  490,  493. 

 ,  John,  74,  372. 

 ,  Thomas,  108. 

 ,  William,  493. 

Weald,  South,  Southweyld,  co.  Essex,  437. 
Weasenham,  Wesenham,  co.  Norfolk,  8. 
Weberton.    See  Wyberton. 
Webbe,  liichard,  362. 

 ,  William,  140,  377,  432. 

Webber,  Henry,  dean  of  Exeter,  612. 
..........  John,  vicar  of  Collumpton,  283. 

Webley.    See  Weobley. 

Wedewe,  Kobert,  chaplain  of  the  chantry  in 
le  Croft,  Christ  Church,  Canterbuiy, 
415. 

Wedirby  [co.  York],  483,  487. 
Wedneshury,  Wadnesberie,  co.  Salop,  men  of, 
402. 

Wedon.    See  Weedon. 

Wedon,  William,  286,  287. 

Weedon,  Wedon  [co.  Northampton],  461. 

  Beck,  Wedonbeke,  co.  Northampton, 

63. 

Week  St.  Mary,  Wyke,  co.  Cornwall,  58,  580. 
Wetf,  Robert,  chaplain  of  the  chantry  under 

le  Croft  in  Christ  Church,  Canterbury, 

388. 

Weke,  John,  80. 

 ,  Philip.  80. 

 ,  Ralph  atte,  80. 

 ,  William,  143. 

Welbeck,  abbot  of,  466. 
Welbey.    See  Wilby. 
Welbourn,  co.  Lincoln,  26,  517. 
Welby,  CO.  Lincoln,  62,  328. 
Welby,  Richard,  28,  127,  170,  352,  354,  355, 
490,  619. 

 ,  ,  sheriff  of  Lincoln,  293. 

 ,  William,  202. 

Welde,  John,  318. 

Welden,  William,  374. 

Weldon,  Welledown,  co.  Northampton,  358. 

Wele,  Thomas,  parson  of  Gisleham,  467,  586. 

 ,  William,  503. 

Welegh,  Wolegh,  co.  Southampton,  63,461. 
Weley.    See  Wyehall. 

Welford,  Welneford,  co.  Gloucester,  67,  102. 
Welford,  John,  140,  289,  407,  459,  606,  615, 
616. 


Welham,  Wellum,  co.  York,  2. 

Welham,  Thomas,  202. 

Well,  Welles,  co.  Lincoln,  508,  535. 

 .,  CO.  Norfolk,  alien  priory  of,  163, 

568. 

Well,  Welle,  John,  446. 

 ,  Thomas,  56,  351. 

 ,  John  atte,  403,  404. 

 ,  Richard  atte,  300. 

 ,  Thomas  att,  prior  of  Lewes,  415. 

 ,  William  atte,  the  younger,  11. 

 ,   ,  the  elder,  12. 

Welland,  Wenlond,  co.  Worcester,  102. 
Welle,  CO.  Cambridge,  203. 
Welleby,  co.  Lincoln,  62,  328. 
Welledown.    See  Weldon. 
Welleford,  John,  54. 
AVelles,  Wellys,  Avice,  358. 

 ,  Edward,  69. 

 ,  Hugh,  81. 

 ,  James,  72,  .309. 

 ,  Joan,  207. 

 ,  John,  52,  280,  325,  368,  436,  444, 

473,  523. 

 ,  Elizabeth  his  wife,  444. 

 John  atte,  5. 

  Richard,  218,  313,  508,  525. 

 ,  ,  Marjory  his  wife,  508. 

 ,    Richard,    lord     of    Welles  and 

Willoughby,  207,  019-621. 

 ,  Robert,  207,  218,  409,  508,  525,  621. 

  Thomas,  128,  196,  246,  356,  405, 

429,  571,  572,  629. 

 ,  William,  54,  250,  337. 

Wellesborne,  Wellysbourne,   Thomas,  286, 

287,  603. 

Wellesbourne,  Waleborne    [co.  Warwick], 
565. 

Wellington,  Welyngton  Hay,  co.  Salop,  130. 
Wellow,  CO.  Somerset,  466. 
 ,  hundred  of,  466. 

Wells,  CO.  Somerset,  11,  39,  53,  87,  205,  325, 
589. 

 ,  cathedral  of,  36,  53. 

 ,   ,  dean  of,  583. 

  And  see  Gunthorpe, 

 ,  letters  patent  dated  at,  210. 

 ,  bishop  of.    See  Stilliugton. 

Wellys.    See  Welles. 

Wellysbourne.    See  Wellesborne. 

Welneford.    See  Welford. 

Welnetham,  Whelleweteham,  co.  Suffolk,  484. 

 ,  Great,  36. 

Welscombe.    See  Wiveliscombe. 

Welshe,  Elias,  presented  to  the  chantry  of 

Newton  Poppleford,  358. 
Weltden,  Simon,  216. 
Welton  Rivall,  prebend  of,  295. 
Welton,  Nicholas,  147. 
 ,  William,  353. 


GENERAL  INDEX. 


801 


Welwetham.    See  Welnetham. 
Welyngton.    See  Wellington. 
Welyworth,  Thomas,  187. 
Wem,  lord  of.    See  Greystoke. 
Wempstead,   Wemstede,  co.   Hertford,  40, 
176. 

Weucelagh,  John,  636. 

 Thomas,  309. 

Wendover,  co.  Buckingham,  144. 

Wendy,  John,  240,  320. 

VVenenian,  Henry,  7. 

Wenfride  Egle.    See  Winford  Eagle. 

Wenge.    See  Wing. 

Wengrave,  Thomas,  56. 

 Matilda  his  wife,  56. 

Wenham,  Little,  co.  Suffolk,  384. 
Wenlock,  co.  Salop,  priory  of,  109,  274. 

 ,  Dan  John  Stratton,  prior  of,  109. 

  Roger  VN'cnlok,  prior  of,  274. 

 ,  Dan  John  Shorewesbury,  prior  of, 

274. 

Wenlok,  John,  lord,  31,  57,  99,  128,  323,  538, 

607,  608,  616. 
 ,   ,  chief  butler  of  England,  24, 

113,  165,  178,  183,  262. 

 ,  Koger,  prior  of  Wenlock,  274. 

Wcnlond.    See  Welland. 

Wcnsleydale,  Wynsladale,  co.  York,  483.  486, 

487. 

Went.    See  Derwent. 

Went,  Wentc,  John,  387,  443. 

 ,   Margaret  his  wife,  443. 

Wentworth,  Henry,  the  elder,  246,  248,  631. 

 ,  John,  10. 

 ,  Kichard,  578. 

 William,  407,  477,  581,  625. 

 ,   ,  Margaret  his  wife,  581. 

Weobley,  Webley,  co.  Hereford,  142. 
Were,  John,  251. 
Werkc.    .See  VVark. 
Werkeman,  Kichard,  39. 
Werkyngton.    .See  Workington. 
Wernesford.    .See  Warnford. 
Werre,  Richard,  356. 
Werscbury,  co.  Gloucester,  541. 
Wesenham.    See  Weasenham. 
Wesprayhele,  co.  Cornwall,  58.' 
West,  Weste,  John,  218,  289,  348,  405,  606, 
634. 

 ,   ,  coroner  and  attorney  of  the 

king  in  the  King's  Bench,  11,  162. 

  Richard,  80. 

 ,  lord  la  Warre,  104,  118,  247, 

249,  275,  633. 
 ,  ,  Katharine  his  wife,  118. 

 ,  Thomas,  vicar  of  Lincoln  cathedral, 

559. 

 ,  William,  2,  473,  504. 

Westbere.    See  Bere. 


Westbern  by  Upton  Noble,  co.  Somerset, 
148. 

Westborough,  Westburgh,  co.  Lincoln,  34, 
132. 

West  Bowrc.    .See  Westbury. 
Westbroke,  Peter,  300. 
Westbrook,  co.  Berks,  242. 
Westbury,  co.  Gloucester,  324,  562. 

 dean  of,  393. 

 CO.  Salop,  503, 

  West  Bowre,  co.  Somerset,  294. 

 ,  CO.  Southampton,  210. 

 ,  CO.  Wilts,  381. 

Westbury,  William,  prebendary  of  St. 
Stephen's,; Westminster.  111. 

 ,   prebendary  of  .St.  Paul's,  Lon- 
don, 111. 

 ,  provost  of  Eton,  62,  73,  328, 

394,  553. 
West  by,  Edmund,  244. 

 ,  Edward,  196. 

 ,  Gregory,  306,  311. 

Westchff,  Westclyff,  .lohn,  276,  310. 
Westcot,  CO.  Buckingham,  480. 
Westcote,  Guy,  268. 

Westcott  [in  Collurapton],  co.  Devon,  343. 
Westefeld,  John,  164. 

Westerham,  Wcstram,  co.  Kent,  hundred  of, 
300. 

Westerkelo.    .See  Keal. 

Westgate,  Westyeate,  co.  Devon,  17,  280, 
457,  529. 

  by  Canterbury,  co.  Kent,  302. 

 ,  hundred  of,  302. 

Westgate,  Robert,  prior  of  St.  Swithun'.s, 

Winchester,  13(;,  436. 
Westheath,  co.  Surrey,  308. 
Westhordon.    See  Horndon,  West. 
Westhorp,  Edmund,  221. 
Westhorpe,  co.  Lincoln,  19. 

 CO.  Suffolk,  482. 

Westhouses,  in  Thorton,  co.  York,  383,  384. 
Westhnrrok.    .See  Tluirrock,  West. 
Westland,  John,  472. 
Westlawe,  John,  472. 

West  Leigh,  Westley,  co.  Lancaster,  144. 

Wcstley,  CO.  Suffolk,  457,  530. 

AVestminster,  1,  3,  11,  50,  56,  58,  74,  80,  85, 
87,  100,  139,  150,  15",  161,  163,  165, 
167,  174,  178,  190,  194,  234,  256,  276, 
291,  295,  299,  325,  326,  331,  337,  344, 
34S,  362,  364,  367,  369,  374.  376,  378, 
405,  422,  427,  429,  440,  450,  460,  465, 
468,  477,  482.  484,  522,  551,  558,  573, 
577,  583,  586,  593,  596,  601-603. 

 ,  statute  of,  28. 

 ,  Parliament  at,  14,  17-20,  22-27,  31- 

34,36,  38-40,  43-48,  50,  51,  56,  .58, 
59,  66,  67,  70,  87,  90-93,  95,  96,  99, 
100,  103,  108,  no,  114,  116,  119,  121, 
125,  126,  128,  130,  135,  137,  139,  151, 
174,  176,  179,  181,  182,  187,  189,  194, 


802 


GENERAL  INDEX. 


Westminster,  Parliament  at— con*. 

200,  206,  226,  2.38,  239,  264,  270,  279, 

280,  294,  307,  315,  329,  360,  388,  398, 
413-415,  418,  419,  421,  422,  426,  428, 
441,  444,  445,  449,  452-456,  458,  461, 
466,  470,  479,  480,  483,  486,  487,  496, 
505-510,  512-518,  531-525,  530,  532- 
534,  536,  538-541,  543,  546,  549,  552, 
557,  560,  562-565,  567-569,  570,  572, 
583,  584,  591, -595. 

,„  ,  letters  patent  dated  at,  passim. 

 ,  charters  dated  at,  14,  17,  63,  67,  99, 

112,  114,  122,  131,  136,  164,  188,  237, 
328,  358,  369-371,  398,  423,  425,  426, 
459,  460,  465,  469,  476,  478,  520,  538, 
568,  601. 

 ,  church  of  St.  Margaret,  460. 

 ,  St.  Peter's  abbey,  66,  179,  206,  272, 

317,  455,  460,  472,  476,  591. 
 ,   ,  abbot  and  convent  of,  IS,  52, 

17.3,  272,  308,  468,  476,  601. 

 ,   ,  abbot  of,  332,  460. 

 ,    Edmund,  abbot  of,  386. 

 ,  ,  George,  abbot  of,  18,  52,  157, 

173.  179,  206,  445,  446. 
 ,   ,  Thomas  Millyng,  abbot  of,  179, 

206,  259,  28.3,  340,  366,  468,  472,  474, 

476,  487,  615,  616,  622,  627,  636. 
 ,   ,  John  Esteney,  abbot  of,  472, 

474,  482,  512,  588,  597,  601. 

 ,  hospital  of  St.  James  by,  63. 

 ,  ,  Roger  Malmesbury,  warden  of, 

63. 

 ,  guild  of  St.  Mary  at,  460. 

 ,  the  king's  privy  palace  at,  18,  244, 

281,  475. 

Westminster  palace,  232,  324,  348,  376,  470, 

521,551,  563,  566. 

 ,  White  Hall  in,  307,  511. 

 ,  Star  Chamber  in,  131,  521. 

 , '  le  Watergate  '  of,  521. 

 ,  '  le  Parlment  Chambre  '  in,  190. 

 ,  the  king's  wardrobe  in,  295. 

 ,  the  free  chapel  of  St.  Stephen  in, 

501. 

 ,  ...  dean  and  chapter  of,  79,  80, 

111,  119,  147,  150,  163,  235,  258,  306, 
414,  512,  568,  590. 

 ,  ,  dean  of,  180,  267,  551,  560, 

583. 

 ,    And  see  Kirkeham  ;  Alcok  ; 

Courtenay. 

 ,   prebends   in,    106,    111,  180, 

235,  244,  258,  267,  306,  360,  363,  437, 
439,  547,  551,  560,  586,  589,  590,  597, 
604. 

 ,  college  of  vicars,  clerks  and  choristers 

in,  151. 

 ,  John  Sewhall,  warden  of,  150. 

Westmoreland,  earl  of.    <S<,'e  Neville. 

 ,  county  of,  26,  29,  131,  171,  219,  242, 

251,  329,  333,  347,  350,  490,  606. 

 ,  ,  sheriff  of,  251,  350,  490. 

 ,    Aiid  see  Moresby  ;  Parr. 


Westmoreland,  county  of,  escheator  in,  135. 

 ,    And  see  Moresby. 

 ,   ,  coroners  in,  29. 

 ,   ,  outlawry  in,  148. 

...   ,   ,  subsidy  and  ulnage  of  cloth  iu, 

329,  333,  347. 
 ,   ,  commissions  of  the  peace  in, 

634. 

Westmyddelton,  co.  Devon,  187. 

Westoftys.    Sec  Tofts. 

Weston,  CO.  Buckingham,  420. 

 ,  CO.  Cambridge,  255. 

 ,  CO.  Leicester,  153. 

 ,  CO.  Norfolk,  191. 

  [co.  Somerset],  53. 

  [CO.  Suffolk],  164. 

  Turvile,  Westunturvikl,  co.  Bucking- 
ham, 366. 

  by  Baldock,  co.  Hertford,  599. 

 by  Beccles,  co.  Sufifolk,  347. 

 ,  Great,  co.  Somerset,  435. 

Weston,  John,  105, 

 ,  Eichard,  146. 

Westow,  CO.  York,  396. 

Westram.    See  Westerham. 

Westraplond,  co.  Somerset,  187. 

West  Town,  Weston,  co.  Southamptou,  94. 

Westwick,  Westwyke,  co.  Norfolk,  143,  191. 

Westwode,  co.  Lincoln,  157. 

Westwode,  Hamo,  380. 

 ,  Thomas,  3,  203. 

Westyeate.    See  Westgato. 

Wethe,co.  Somerset,  187. 

Wethepoll.    See  Withipoll. 

Wetherby,  John,  516. 

Wetherden,  co.  Suffolk,  136. 

Wetley.    .See  lierkeley. 

Weuton  (?  Newton),  co.  Lincoln,  560. 

Wexcombe,  co.  Wilts,  243,  458,  530. 

Wexcombe,  William,  336. 

Wexford.    See  Vexford. 

Wey,  Stephen,  526. 

Weye,  Simon,  318. 

Weyer,  Matthew,  306. 

Weymouth,  co.  Dorset,  72,  552. 

 port  of,  357. 

Weynsford,  William,  341. 

Weytons,  Gosson,  565. 

Whaddon,  co.  Wilts,  141,  380. 

Whaddon,  John,  prior  of  Barnwell,  476. 

Whalisburgh,  Wallesburgh,  Thomas,  399, 
610. 

Whaplode.  Quaplode,  co.  Lincoln,  96,  384, 
431. 

Wharfe  river,  572. 

Wharnley,  Quarnlo,  co.  Northumberland, 
523. 

Wharton,  Geoffi-ey,  379. 

 ,  John,  350,  635. 

VVhatcote,  Watcote,  co.  Warwick,  576. 


GENERAL  INDEX. 


803 


Whately,  Whetely,  co.  Somerset,  7. 
Whatman,  Laurence,  380. 
Whatton,  co.  Nottingham,  441. 

  And  see  Watton. 

Whatton,  .John,  410. 

Wheatacre,  Wheteacre,  co.  Norfolk,  508. 

Wheatharapstead,  co.  Hertford,  80. 

Wheldrake,  Wheldryk,  co.  York,  148. 

Whele,  Richard,  29. 

Wheler,  Benedict,  78. 

 ,  William,  491. 

Whelleweteham.    See  Welnetham. 
Whelpdale,  John,  532. 

 William,  98. 

Whenby,  co.  York,  223. 
Wherwell,  co.  Southampton,  81. 
Wheteacre.    See  Wheatacre. 
Whetehill,  Adrian,  26. 

 ,  ,  controller  of  Calais,  292. 

 Richard,  26,  271,  292. 

 ,  controller  of  Calais,  291. 

 ,  lieutenant  of  Calais,  392. 

 ,  mayor  of  Calais,  291. 

Wheteley,  William,  251. 
Wheteley.    See  Whately. 
Whether,  Hugh,  364. 
Whetsyd,  Robert,  515. 

 ,  William,  515. 

Whiche,  Henry,  546. 
Whichecote,  John,  252,  621. 
Whiohecotes,  John,  352,  354,  490. 
Whiddon,  Simon,  552. 
Whighton,  John,  372. 
Whimple,  Whymple,  co.  Devon,  457,  529. 
Whippe,  Whyppe,  William,  225. 
Whinbergh,  Whyuburgh,  co.  Norfolk,  34. 
Whinfell,  Whynfell,  co.  Westmoreland,  264, 
423,  532. 

Whistley,  Whysshelce,  co.  Berks,  136. 
Whiston,  CO.  Northampton,  202. 

 ,  CO.  York,  412. 

Whita,  William,  104. 
Whitby,  CO.  York,  409,  504. 

 ,  abbey  of,  550,  554. 

 ,  convent  of,  544. 

 ,  Dan  Thomas  Pykering,  abbot  of, 

544. 

 ,  Dau  William  Colson,  abbot  of,  550, 

554. 

Whitchurch,  co.  Buckingham,  560. 
 ,  CO.  Devon,  61. 

 ,  CO.  Salop,  402,  410,  411,  439,  440, 

442. 

Whitchurche,  Whitcchurche,  Robert,  158. 

 William,  60. 

White,  Whyte,  Andrew,  327. 

 David,  209,  495. 

 ,  Edmund,  165,  273. 


White,  John,  60,  73,  87,  91,  126,  182,  211, 
576. 

 ,  ,  Kdith  his  wife,  91. 

 ,   ,  ICIeanor  his  wife,  211. 

 ,  Peter,  251. 

 ,  Richard,  9,  323. 

 ,  Robert,  182. 

 ,  William,  54,  57,  354,  571,  579. 

Whitehall,  Withall,  co.  Cumberland,  137. 

Whitehede,  VVhithed,  VVhytehede,  John,  57. 
196,  220,  405,  429,  493,  524,  585,  629! 

Whitehill,  Wyghthillo,  in  Tackley,  co.  Ox- 
ford, 382,  420. 

White  Lackington,  co.  Somerset,  36. 

Whitelok,  Walter,  552. 

Whiteney.    See  Whitteuey. 

White  Notley,  co.  Essex,  321. 

Whiterigg,  Qwitbrigge,  co.  Cumberland,  214, 
277. 

White  Reding,  co.  Essex,  158. 
Whitfeld,  John,  464. 

 ,  mayor  of  Kingston  on  Hull, 

379. 

 ,  Robert,  464. 

Wbitford,  co.  Devon,  23,  176,  189,  280,  457, 
529. 

Whitingham,  Wyttinghain,  Whittyngham, 
John,  159,  248,  36C. 

 Marjory,  329. 

 ,  Robert,  47,  126,  135,  329. 

Whitle.    See  Whitley. 

Whitlegh,  John,  23. 

 Richard,  23,  205. 

 ,  Elizabeth  his  wife,  205. 

Whitley,  Alexander,  abbot  of  Combe,  478. 

Whitmore,  .John,  dean  of  St.  Mary's,  Shrews- 
bury, 357. 

Whitokkesmedc.    See  Whittokesmede. 

Whitstable,  co.  Kent,  274,  380. 

 ,  hundred  of,  302. 

Whitteney,  Whytney,  Eustace,  350,  407,  615, 
616. 

Whittingham,  Whityngham,  co.  Lancaster, 
307,  419. 

Whittiugstow,  WhittyngesloH'e,  co.  Salop,  4. 

Whittington,  Whytyugton  [in  Ratby],  co. 
Leicester,  27,  517. 

 ,  Whitington  [co.  Lancaster],  334. 

 ,  CO.  Stafford,  478. 

 ,  CO.  Westmoreland,  531. 

Whittlesea  Mere,  Wytlesmere,  co.  Cam- 
bridge, 127,  352. 

Whittlesford,  Wytlesford,  co.  Cambridge, 
386. 

Whittokesmede,  John,  118,  126,  220,  247, 

319,  406,  408,  428,  4C3,  573,  635. 
Whittyslade.    -See  Wydeslade. 
VVhitwell,  CO.  Derby,  76,  460. 

 ,  CO.  Lancaster,  532. 

Whitwell,  Robert,  82. 
Whitwick,  CO.  Leicester,  27,  517. 


804 


GENERAL  INDEX. 


Whityng,  Nicholas,  60. 
Whityngham.    See  Whittingham 
Whityngton.    See  Whittington. 
Whityngton,  Thomas,  54. 

 ,  William,  247,  354,  614. 

Whorde,  Johu,  354. 
"Whorlton,  co.  York,  185,  551. 
Whymbergh,  Robert,  378. 
Whynburgh.    See  Whiabergh. 
Whyngham.    See  AVingham. 
Whysshelpe.    See  Whistley. 
Whytby,  William,  156. 
Whyte.    See  White. 
Whyteney.    See  Whitteney. 
Whytyngton.    See  Whittington. 
Wichbold,  CO.  Worcester,  110. 
Wichmere,  co.  Stafford,  95. 
Wichnor,  Wycheuore,  co.  Stafford,  12. 
Wichyngham,  Wychyngham,  Edmund,  343, 
622. 

 ,  ,  Alice  his  wife,  343. 

Wick,  Wyk,  co.  Southhampton,  534. 
Wickham,  East,  Estwykeham,  co.  Kent,  10. 
Wicklow,  Wikenlowe,  in  Ireland,  598. 
Wickmere,  Wykemere,  co.  Norfolk,  26,  40. 
Widdrington,  Wydryngton,  John,  350,  407, 

464,  624. 

 ,  Eobert,  490. 

Wideville.    See  Wydeville. 

Widford,  Wydeford,  co.  Hertford,  146. 

Wigborough,  Wyggebergh,  co.  Essex,  169, 

252,  288. 

Wight,  Isle  of,  56,  57,  240,  424,  493,  495. 

 ,  lord  of.    See  Wydeville. 

Wightlyngton,  co.  Norfolk,  191. 
Wiggeuhall,  Wygeuall,  co.  Norfolk,  169,  170, 
244. 

Wigmore,  Wygmore,  co.  Hereford,  Thomas, 

abbot  of,  1 43. 
VVigston,  Wigiston,  co.  Leicester,  565. 
Wigton,  CO.  Cumberland,  25, 137,  214,  277. 

 ,  in  Scotland,  13. 

Wikenlowe.    See  Wicklow. 
Wikes,  John,  271,  396. 

 ,   ,  Matilda  his  wife,  271. 

Wilbarn,  John,  145. 

Wilbarston,  Wilbaston   [co.  Northampton], 
27,  517. 

Wilberfosse,  co.  York,  483,  486,  487. 
VVilbery,  Lucas,  197. 

Wilbraham,  Wilbram,  co.  Cambridge,  40,  399. 
Wilby,  Welbey,  Wylbey,  co.  Suffolk,  418, 
422. 

 ,  CO.  Norfolk,  14. 

Wilbyes  in  Tottenham,  co.  Middlesex,  26, 
517. 

Wilcok,  John,  197. 
 ,  Richard,  73. 

 ,  William,  parson  of  Llandyssil,  181. 

Wilcokson,  John,  499. 


Wilcotes,  Wylcotes,  Thomas,  226,  382,  436. 

 ,  William,  232,  242. 

Wild,  Wilde,  Wylde,  John  29,  55,  101,  471, 
579. 

 ,  Nicholas,  184. 

 ,  Robert,  224. 

 ,  Thomas,  260. 

Wildebore,  Richard,  78,  79. 

Wildy,  Wyldy,  William,  prior  of  Sheen,  431 , 

4.'j6,  467,  582. 
Wilke,  Richard,  436. 
Wilkokson,  William,  615. 
Wilkynson,  Wylkynson,  Alan,  435. 

 ,  Christopher,  230. 

 ,  James,  485. 

 ,  John,  491. 

 Robert,  5. 

 Roger,  446. 

Willerby,  Willarby,  Wyllerdby,  George,  132, 

223,  464. 
Willesdon,  Bartholomew,  507. 
Willesthorpe,  Miles,  572. 

 ,  escheator  in  the  county  of  York,  263. 

 ,  William,  318. 

Willey,  John,  158. 

William  I.,  king  of  England,  131. 

 ,  charters  of,  99,  370. 

William  II.,  charters  of,  370,459,  460. 
William,  Wyllyam,  David,  28. 

 ,  John,  60,  74,  81,  128,  228,  324. 

 ,  ,  mayor  of  Southampton,  217. 

 ,  Maurice,  53. 

 ,  Richard,  494. 

 Thomas,  351. 

 ,  Walter,  590. 

 William,  128. 

 ap  Ho,  parson  of  Llanbadarn  Vawr, 

106. 

 the  clerk,  63. 

Williamson,  Herman,  142. 

 ,  John,  166,  573. 

 Richard,  573. 

 ,  Robert,  573. 

 ,  Stephen,  323. 

 ,  Thomas,  322,  596. 

Willingale,  Willinghall,  co.  Essex,  582. 
Willingham,  co.  Lincoln,  179. 
Willok,  Thomas,  300. 
Willoughby,  co.  Lincoln,  508. 

 ,  CO.  Nottingham,  481. 

Willoughby,  Wilughby,  Wyllughby,  Christo- 
pher, 98. 

 ,  John,  186,  196,  219,  220,  319,  351, 

406,  419,  427,  573,  635. 

 ,  Agnes  his  wife,  186. 

 ,  Ralph,  623. 

 ,  Richard,  231,  247,  321,  625. 

 .Robert,  88,  200,  219,  220,319,  351, 

399,  403,  404,  408,  427,  462,  464,  490- 
492,  508,  552,  573,  610. 


GENERAL  INDEX. 


805 


Willoughby,  Robert,  Matilda  his  wife,  508. 

 ,  ,  lord  of,  93,  207. 

 ,  Wi!liam,  107. 

 ,   ,  Joan  his  wife,  107. 

  And  see  Welles. 

Willy,  Wylly,  John,  225,  435. 

 ,  ,  Margaret  his  wife,  225,  435. 

 ,  ,  prebendary  of  St.  Stephen's, 

Westminster,  235,  258. 

 ,  Kichard,  281,  295. 

  ,   escheator  of  Kent  and  Middle- 
sex, 117. 

Willyamson.    5ee  Williamson. 

Willys,  Denis,  93. 

Wilmington,  Wylmyngton,  co.  Kent,  179, 
505. 

Wilmote,  prebend  of,  397. 

Wilmote,  Wilmot,  Wylmot,  Thomas,  347. 

 ,  ,  vicar  of  Ashford,  42,  119,  414, 

585. 

Wilsford,  Willesford,  co.  Wilts,  397,  541, 
562. 

Wilson,  Richard,  214,  277. 

 ,  Robert,  53. 

Wilton,  CO.  Hereford,  442. 

 CO.  Norfolk,  83,  191. 

 ,  CO.  Wilts,  477,  533. 

 ,  abbey  of,  231,  233,  296. 

 ,  convent  of,  231,  296,  518. 

 ,  Edith  Borgh,  abbess  of,  231,  296. 

 ,  Dame  Alice  Comeland,  abbess  of, 

231,  233,  296. 

  CO.  York,483,  486,  487. 

Wilton,  Henry,  387. 

 ,  John,  prior  of  Crossechirch,  Col- 
chester, 89, 
 Thomas,  579. 

Wilts,  county  of,  48,  56,  65,  87,  99,  101,  112, 
128,  139,  152,  159,  162,  196,  218-230, 

232,  243,  247,  278,  280,  284,  293,  310, 
319,  329,  347,  351,  389,  406,  409,  427, 
428,  430,  462,  463,  492,  496,  524,  545, 
547,  562,  573,  587. 

 ,   sheriff  of,  56,  57,  93,  160,  183, 

219,  284,  310,  351,  406,  408,  428,  477, 
492,  524,  547. 

 ,    And  see  Delamare ;  Colyng- 

bournc. 

 escheator  in,  15,  16,  12.5,  233, 

241.  278,  333,  339,  360. 

 ,    And  see  Hide  ;  Banaster. 

 ,   ,  outlawries  in,  3,  5,  7,  50,  76-78, 

80,  141,  143,  146,  235,  255,  256,  433, 
435,  475,  477,  498,  575,  578,  580,  589. 

 ,  ,  subsidy  and  ulnage  of  cloth  in, 

233,  329,  335,  347,  478,  537. 

 ,  ,  justices  of  the  peace  in,  220. 

 ,    commissions  of  the  peace  in, 

635. 

Wiltshire,  earl  of.    See  Butler. 
Wilughby.    See  Willoughby. 
Wimbish,  Wymbussh,  co.  Essex,  12. 


Wimboi-ne  Minster,  co.  Dorset,  534. 

 ,  Upper,  Upwymborn,  501. 

Wimbotsham,  Wymbotesham,  co.  Norfolk, 
500. 

Wincanton,  Wyngeaulton,  co.  Somerset,  78. 
Wiuchcombe,  Wynchecombe,  co.  Gloucester, 

2,  44,  162,  244,  536,  592. 
 ..,  abbey  of,  442. 

 ,  abbot  and  convent  of,  44,  162,  164, 

244,  440,  592. 
 ,  William  Wynchecombe,  abbot  of, 

440. 

 ,  Thomas  Twynuj'ng,  abbot  of,  442. 

 ,  John,  abbot  of,  615. 

 ,  Thomas,  abbot  of,  615. 

Winchelsea,  Wynchelse,  co.  Sussex,  89,  210, 

265,  276,  416,  49],  570. 
 ,  port  of,  496. 

Winchendon,  Nether,  Netherwichenden,  co. 

Buckingham,  101. 
Winchester,  6,  8,  53,  57,  73,  81,  93,  101,  146, 

233,  281,  295,  324,  325,  47.5,  571,  589. 
 statute  of,  28. 

 ,  charters  dated  at,  13,  67,  369-371, 

539. 

 ,  diocese  of,  19,  106,  239,  337,  359, 

388,  390,404,  415,  519,  543. 

 ,  bishopric  of,  125,  126. 

 ,  bishop  of,  509,  554. 

  And  see  Waynflete  ;  Wykeham. 

 Richard,  bishop  of  [1173-1188],  13. 

 ,'St.  Sivithun's,  prior  of,  339. 

 ,  ,  Robert  Westgate,  prior  of,  130, 

436. 

  St.  Mary's,  abbess  and  convent  of, 

138,  587. 

 ,  earl  of.    See  Brugges  ;  Quincy. 

Windermere,  Wynandremere  [co.  Westmore- 
land], 334,  383,  532. 

Windsor,  Wyndesore,  co.  Berks,  133,  573, 
574,  599. 

 ,  letters  patent  dated  at,  45,  47,  50,  61, 

467,  474,  569,  573. 

 ,  charters  dated  at,  95,  123,  134,  237. 

 ,  forest  of,  43,  91,  452. 

 castle  of,  50,  133,  234,  266,  267,  269, 

293,  331,  34S,  373,  450,  467,  515,  526, 

535,  552,  573,  574. 

 ,  con.-^table  of,  50,  488. 

 ,    And  see  Bourchier  ;  Leget. 

 ,  ,  chapel  of  St.  George  in,  38,  50, 

119,  250,  278,  368,  412,  535,  554,  596. 
 ,   ,   ,  dean  of,  155,  236,  274, 

303,  440. 

 ,   ,    And    see    Faukes ; 

Morland  ;  Manuyng  ;  Davyson  ;  Dud- 
Icy  ;  Courteuay. 

 ,  ,   ,  dean  and  chapter  of,  145, 

255,  308,  348,  359,  396,  424,  461,  484, 
499,  551. 

 ,  .......   ,  prebends  in,  155,  176, 

179,  233.  236,  274,  303,  308,  348,  359^ 
396,  411,  440,  469,  470,  549,  563. 


806 


GENERAL  INDEX. 


Windsor,  castle  of,  le  Amener  is  Towre  in,  535. 

 ,   ,  Earner  is  Towre  in,  535. 

 ,   ,  Cluer  ys  Towre  in,  535. 

 ,  Old,  515,  573. 

 ,  New,  8,  43,  118,  234,  549,  578. 

 ,  ,  burgesses  of,  161. 

Windsor  herald,  201,  217,  221. 

Wines,  14,  31,  37,  54,  57,  101,  106,  111,  154, 

159,  178,  180,  198,  240,  245,  264,  288, 

310,  336,  358,  366,  388,  429,  465,  515, 

518,521. 

  called  '  issak,'  37. 

  of  Aquitaine,  31. 

 of  Gascony,  14,  198,  264,  358,  366. 

  of  the  Rhine,  429. 

Winford  Eagle,  Wenfride  Egle,  co.  Dorset, 

373. 

Wing,  Wenge,  co.  Buckingham,  75,  257. 

 CO.  Rutland,  346. 

Wingfield,  Winfeld,  Wynfield,  co.  Derby,  396, 
562. 

 ,  Wyngfeld,  co.  Suffolk,  482. 

Wingham,  Whyngham,  Wyngham,  co.  Kent, 
42. 

 ,  provost  and  canons  of,  42. 

Master  Thomas  Rotheram,  provost 
of,  42. 
 hundred  of,  301. 

Wingrave,  Wyngrave,  co.  Buckingham,  56, 
205. 

Winkfield,  Wynkfeld  [co.  Berks],  573. 
Winkleigh     Keynes,    Wynkelekeynes,  co. 
Devon,  431. 

 Tracy,  Wyncletracy,  32,  137. 

Winshill,  Wynshull,  co.  Derby,  95. 
Winterbourne  Homyngton,  co.  Wilts,  311. 
  Stoke,  466. 

Winterslow,  Wynterslowe,  co.   Wilts,  533, 
534. 

Winthorpe,  Wynthorpe,  co.  Lincoln,  578. 
Winton,  Wynton,   co.  Westmoreland,  264, 
423,  532. 

Wirksworth,  Wrixworth,  Wyrkesworth,  co. 

Derby,  32,  137,  384. 
Wirscetur,  Thomas,  abbot  of  Hyde,  360,  365. 
Wisbeach,  Wyssebeche,  co.  Cambridge,  28, 

169,  203,  582. 
Wise,  Wyse,  John,  45. 

 ,  Oliver,  399. 

 ,  Richard,  4,  417. 

"[   Thomas,  58,  403,  404,  434. 

wisebe'rd,  Wy sherd,  John,  462,  492,  542. 

 ,  Thomas,  251. 

Wiseman,  Wyseman,  Thomas,  293,  553. 
Wispingtou,  Wyspyngton,  co.  Lincoln,  608. 
Wissant,  Wytsaud,  in  Picardy,  charter  dated 

at,  398. 

Wistanstow,  Wy»tanstowe,  co.  Salop,  143. 
Witchingham,  Wychyngham,    co.  Norfolk, 
197. 

Withall.    See  Whitehall. 


Witham,  Wytham,  co.  Essex,  116,  381,  432. 

 ,  CO.  Lincoln,  297,  560. 

 ,  North,  297,  560. 

Witham,  Wytham,  Thomas,   102,  103,  164, 

408,  572,  637. 
Witheridge,  Wytherygge,  co.  Devon,  434. 
Withern,  Wythern,  co.  Lincoln,  608. 
Withernsea,  Wythomse,  co.  York,  585. 
Withernwick,  Wythome  Wyke,   co.  York, 

323. 

Witheryngton,  Gerard,  545. 
,  ,  Roger,  545. 

Withipoll,  Wethepoll,  Wythepoll,  John,  450> 

471,  545. 
Withom,  Dame  Katharine,  503. 
Witlesey,  William,  abbot  of  Ramsey,  98,  107, 

392,  394. 

Witley,  Whitley,  co.  Surrey,  116,  457,  529. 

Witnam.    See  Wittenham. 

Witney,  William,  488. 

Wittenham,  Witnam,  Little,  co.  Berks,  263. 

 ,  CO.  Wilts,  466. 

Witton  [in  Great  Budworth],  co.  Chester, 
450. 

 ,  West,  CO.  York,  346,  483,  486,  487. 

Wivelcote,  co.  Oxford,  562. 

Wiveliscombe,  Welscombe,  Wyllescomhe,  co. 

Somerset,  144. 
Wivenhoe,  Wyvenhoo,  co.  Essex,  318,  439, 

565. 

Wiveton,  Wyveton,  co.  Norfolk,  73. 
Wobourn,  John,  604. 

 ,  William,  minor  canon  of  St.  Paul's, 

London,  604. 
Woburn,  co.  Bedford,  letters  patent  dated  at, 

467,  470. 

Wodam  Mortymer.    See  Woodham  Mortimer. 

Woddesdon.    See  Waddesdon. 

Wode.    See  Wood. 

Wode,  Alexander,  375,  406,  609. 

 ,  Henry,  2. 

 ,  John,  2,  196,  199,  222,  246-249,  287, 

407,  438,  462,  630,  632,  633. 

 ,   ,  master  of  the  ordnance,  25,  112, 

163,  549. 
 ,  the  elder,  405,  632. 

 ,  the  younger,  406,  633. 

 John  a,  31,  212. 

 ,  John  atte,  570. 

 ,  Richard,  552,  570. 

 ,  prior  of  Studley,  471. 

 ,  Robert  a,  552. 

 ,,  Thomas,  79,  325,  331,  557. 

 ,  ,  the  elder,  406. 

 ,  Thomas  atte,  49. 

Wodecok,  Wodkok,  Henry,  315. 

 ,  John,  525,  579. 

Wodecote,  Thomas  434. 

Wodeell.    See  WoodhuU. 

Wodefeld,  Robert,  633. 

Wodehous,  John,  291. 


GENERAL  INDEX. 


807 


Wodehouse,  Thomas,  581. 

Wodelarke,  Kobert,  544. 

 ,  provost  of  the  college  of  St. 

Mary  and  St.  Nicholas,  Cambridge, 

240,  481,  609. 
Wodell,  Thomas,  escheator  in  the  county  of 

Stafford,  541. 
Woderofe,  Woderowe,  John,  199,  408,  490, 

638. 

  ,  ,  escheator  in  the  county  of  York, 

103. 

 ,  Oliver,  470. 

.   ,  Thomas,  353. 

Wodeward,  Richard,  parson  of  Drewsteiguton, 
213. 

  And  see  Wodward. 

Wodford.    See  Wadeford. 
Wodford,  Ralph,  619. 

 ,  ,  sheriff  of  Warwick  and  Leices- 
ter, 136. 

Wodhous,  John,  382. 

Wodkok.    See  Wodecok. 

Wodmanston,  Robert,  prebendary  of  St. 
George's,  Windsor,  155. 

 ,   ,  prebendary  of  Hastings,  155. 

Wodward,  Richard,  parson,  of  Alvescott,  52. 

 ,   ,  parson  of  Doddinghurst,  295. 

  William,  384. 

  And  see  Wodeward. 

Wodwatyr.    See  Woodham  Walter. 

Wody,  John,  575. 

 Richard,  73. 

Wodyngton,  William,  471. 

Wokeham.    See  Oakham. 

Wokindone.    See  Ockendon. 

  Bi.sshop.    Sec  Cranham. 

Wokyndon.    See  Ockendon. 

Wokyng,  John,  538. 

Wokysbregge.    See  Uxbridge. 

Wolcelcy.    See  Wolseley. 

Wolcey,  William,  552. 

Wolcombe.    See  Woolacombe. 

Woldeham.    See  Wouldhiim. 

Wolegh.    Sec  Wclegh. 

Wolf,  Wolfe,  Ralph,  73. 

  ,  Richard,  501. 

 ,  William,  249,  291. 

Wolfardesworthy.    See  Woolfardisworthy. 

Wolferton.    See  Woolverton. 

Wolfhampston.    See  Woolston. 

Wolflete,  William,  261. 

Wolford,  Great,  co.  Warwick,  430. 

Wollaton,  CO.  Nottingham,  231. 

WoUavynton.    See  Woolavington. 

Wolley.    See  Wooley. 

Wolmer  forest  [co.  Southampton],  66. 

Wolseley,  co.  Stafford,  184. 

Wolseley,  Ralph,  12,  14,  184,  407,  630. 

 ,   ,  baron  of  the  Exchequer,  31, 

211,  383,  577. 


Wolseley,  Ralph,  victualler  of  Calais,  161. 

 ,  Thomas,  630. 

Wolshawe,  John,  9. 

 ,   ,  the  elder,  74. 

Wolstanton,  co.  Stafford,  397,  416. 
Wolsthorp.    .See  Woolsthorpe. 
Wolston,  CO.  Warwick,  331. 

  And  see  Woolstone. 

Wolston,  Guy,  184,  199,  349,  564,  623. 

 ,  Reginald,  canon  of  Hereford,  365. 

 ,  William,  146. 

Wolueresford.    See  Worfield. 
Wolverdiugton,  co.  Warwick,  153. 
Wolverston.    See  Woolverstone. 
Wolverton,  co.  Buckingham,  212. 
Wolvey,  CO.  Warwick,  135. 
Wolyugdonbisshop.    See  Cranham. 
Wombewell,  Thomas,  302. 
Wombwell,  co.  York,  386. 
Womersley,  Wymbersley  [co.  York],  575. 
Womwell,  John,  131. 
Woneley,  Robert,  316. 
Wonersh,  co.  Surrey,  579. 
Wonford,  co.  Devon,  hundred  of,  280,  457, 
529. 

Wood,  John,  536. 

 William,  579. 

  A7id  see  Wode. 

Woodbury,  Wodbury,  co.  Devon,  60. 
Woodchurch,  Wodchirche,  co.  Kent,  283,  536, 
546. 

Woodcote,  CO.  Salop.  444. 
Woodford,  Wodeford,  co.  Devon,  225. 

 ,  Wodford,  CO.  Somerset,  530. 

Woodhall,  Wodhall,  co.  York,  483,  486,  487. 
^Voodham   Ferrers,   Wodehara    Ferers,  co. 

Essex,  424. 

  Mortimer,  73,  521. 

  Walter,  Wodwatyr,  12,  116,  272. 

Woodhouse,  Wodehous,  co.   Warwick,  49, 

331. 

Woodhull,  Wodeell,  Wodehyll  [in  Mepper- 

shall],  CO.  Bedford,  436. 
Woodland,  Wodelonde,  co.  Kent,  5. 

Woodstock,  Wodestoke,  Odestoke,  co.  Oxford, 
17,  44,  85,  116,  117,  241,  244,  364, 
369,  422,  510,  543,  567,  573,  574, 
603. 

 ,  mayor  of.    See  Carryk. 

 ,  charters  dated  at,  34,  67,  68,  136, 

328,  425. 
 Old,  374. 

Woodward,  Richard,  parson  of  St.  John, 
Maddermarket,  Norwich,  21. 

Woolacombe,  Wolcombe,  co.  Devon,  106. 
Woolavington,  WoUavynton,  co.  Somerset, 
461,  551. 

Wooley,  Wolley,  co.  York,  477. 

Woolfardisworthy,  Wolfardesworthy,  co. 
Devon,  52. 


808 


GENERAL  INDEX. 


Wools,  11,  31,  53,  59,  85,  87,  91,  108,  126, 
132,  134,  153-155,  160,  161,  212,  213, 
244,  273,  306,  337,  341,  357,  388,  489, 
532,  533,  543,  56ii,  565,  571,  573. 

  And  see  Customs  ;  subsidies. 

Woolsthorpe,  Wolsthorp,  co.  Lincoln,  27,  517. 

Woolston,  AVolfhampston,  in  Chigwell,  co. 
Essex,  192. 

Woolstoue,  Wolstone,  co.  Gloucester,  66. 

"Woolverstone,  Wolverston  co.  Suffolk,  590. 

Woolverton,  Wolferton,  co.  Southampton, 
182. 

Woolwich,  Wolewiche,  co,  Kent,  463. 
Wootton,  Wotton,  CO.  Oxford,  17,  117,  241, 

244,  364,  422,  510,  543,  567,  573. 
 ,  hundred  of,  1 7,  85,  117,  244,  364,  422, 

510,  543,  567,  573. 
Worcester,  29,84,211,  232,330,  354,466,496, 

499,  536. 

 ,  charters  dated  at,  G7,  425. 

 ,  diocese  of,  35,  66,  393,  438,  461,  520. 

 ,  bishopric  of,  598. 

 ,  bishop  of.    See  Carpenter  ;  Alcok. 

 ,  ship  called  le  George,  of  29. 

 ,    county  of,  55,    61,  70,  172,  195, 

218,  284,  289,  294,  329,  347,  350,  406, 

408,  421,  430,  462,  492,  496,  497,  526, 

574,  606. 

 ,   sheriff  of,  29,  101,  350,  406, 

492,  496,  526. 
 ,  ,  escheator  in,  33,  206,  333,  472, 

598. 

 ,    And  see  Rugge  ;  Beaumont. 

 ,   ,  outlawries  in,      7,  9,  10,  51, 

499. 

 ,  ,  subsidy  and  ulnage  of  cloth  in, 

329,  347,  478. 

 ,  justices  of  the  peace  in,  51. 

 ,   commissions  of  the  peace  in, 

635. 

Worcestre,  William,  200. 
Worelham.    See  Worldham. 
Worewell,  John,  2. 

Worfield,  Wolueresford  [co.  Salop],  594. 
Worford,  Nicholas,  224. 

Workington,  Werkyngton,  co.  Cumberland, 
417. 

Works,  clerk  of.    See  Stratton  ;  Straunge. 
Worksop,  Warsop,  co.  Nottingham,  17,  70, 

125,  418,  419,  423,  431,  442,  460,  477. 
Worldham,  Worelham,  co.  Southampton,  66. 

 ,  East,  Estworldham,  66. 

Worldham,  Peter  de,  66. 

Wormegay,  W3'rmynge3%  co.  Norfolk,  422. 

Wormelow,  co.  Hereford,  hundred  of,  539, 

561. 

Wormiugford,  co.  Essex,  291. 
Wormington,  Little,  co.  Gloucester,  16. 
Worms,  charter  dated  at,  370,  371. 
Wormyngham,  William,  286. 
Worplesdon,  Warpisden,  co.  Surrey,  457,  529. 
Worsall  [co.York],  200. 


Worseley.    .See  Worsley. 

Worshope.    See  Worksop. 

Worsley,  V/orseley,  Christopher,  48,  165,  169, 

171,  196,  358,  628. 
 ,   ,  sheriff  of  Somerset  and  Dorset, 

95. 

 ,   ,  Joan  his  wife,  358. 

 ,  Henry,  142. 

 James,  401,  459. 

 ,  John,  358,  437,  496. 

 ,  Otewel,  97,  264. 

 ,  Ealph,  379. 

 ,  Richard,  142. 

 ,  Robert,  430. 

 Roland,  271,  290. 

 ,  Seth,  86,  577,  600. 

 ,  William,  83,  86,  551,  567. 

 ,  ,  mayor  of  Calais,  290. 

Worsop,  John,  11. 
Worstead,  co.  Norfolk,  16. 
Worteley.    See  Wortley. 
Worth,  CO.  Kent,  hundred  of,  300. 

 ,  Wurthe,  co.  Sussex,  forest  of,  192. 

Wortham,  Henry,  431. 
AVorthington,  John,  86. 

 ,  Robert,  376. 

Wortley,  co.  York,  258. 
Wortley,  Nicholas,  402. 

 ,  Thomas,  258,  418. 

Worton,  CO.  Lancaster,  531. 

 ,  [CO.  York],  483,  486,  487. 

Wotton,  John,  519. 

 ,  Nicholas,  523. 

Robert,  guardian  of  the  Friars  Minor 

of  Colchester,  162. 

 ,  Thomas,  70,  71,  381. 

  And  see  Wootton. 

Wouldham,  Woldeham,  co.  Kent,  371. 

Woxbrigge.    See  Uxbridge. 

Wragby,  co.  Lincoln,  17,  47,  125,  423,  457, 

530. 

Wrangle,  co,  Lincoln,  292. 
Wrangwysshe,  Thomas,  355. 
Wrastlyngworth.    See  Wrestliugworth. 
Wraton.    See  Wratton. 
Wrattesley.    See  Wrottesley. 
Wratting,  Great,  co.  Suffolk,  241. 
Wratton,  Wraton,  Peter,  265,  413,  551. 
Wrautham  (?  Wortham),  co.  Suffolk,  191. 
Wraxall,  Wroxale,  co.  Dorset,  457,  529. 

 ,  CO.  Somerset,  270,  458,  465,  530. 

Wrenne,  Edmund,  579. 
Wressle,  Wresill,  co.  York,  91,  239. 
Wrestliugworth,  Warstlyngworth,  co.  Bed- 
ford, 98,  108,  191,  485. 
Wretill.    See  Writell. 
Wrey,  Wreycombe,  co.  Devon,  24,  45,  46. 
Wright,  Wryght,  George,  309. 

 ,  Henry,  285. 

 ,  John,  148. 


GENERAL  INDEX. 


Wright,  llichard,  30,  327,  503. 

 ,  Eobert,  148. 

 ,  ,  Margaret  his  wife,  148. 

 ,  ...  ...  parson  of  Chipstead,  519. 

 ,  Thomas,  384,  431. 

 William,  77,  214,  277. 

Wrightington,  co.  Lancaster,  40. 
Writell,  Wretill,  Wyrtell,  John,  514. 

 ,  Walter,  317,  351,  407,  428,  514, 

614. 

 ,   ,  Katharine  his  wfe,  514. 

 ,  Walter,  sheriff  of  Essex  and  Hertford, 

180. 

Writtle,  Wrytyll,  co.  Essex,  436. 
Wrixworth,  Wirksworth,  co.  Derby,  32. 
Wrockwardine,  co.  Salop,  133,  159,  397,  541. 
Wroghton.    See  Wroughton. 
Wroth,  Wrothc,  .John,  266, 349,  444. 
Wrotham,  co.  Kent,  hundred  of,  301. 
Wrottesley,  Wrattislay,  co.  Stafford,  290. 
Wrottesley,  Wrattyslay,  Henry,',2l8. 

 ,  Walter,  82,  218,  270,  290,  408,  630. 

Wroughton,  Over,  co.  Wilts,  533.J 
 Nether,  533. 

Wroughton,  Wroghton,  John,  219,  247,  278, 

280,  635. 
Wroxhale.    See  Wraxall. 
Wroxhale,  John,  242. 
Wroxham,  llichard,  288. 
Wrutou,  Peter,  481. 
Wryght.    See  Wright. 
Wrytyll.    See  Writtle. 
Wryxham,  Thomas,  127. 
WuUer,  William,  abbot  of  Abbotsbury,  115. 
Wulston,  Guy,  405. ' 
Wurthe.    See  Worth. 
Wyard,  Stephen,  144. 
Wyberton,  Weberton,  co.  Lincoln,  508. 
Wybostou,  Wyboldcston,  in  Eaton  Socon,  co. 

Bedford,  227,  253,  503,  596. 
Wyche,    See  Droitwich. 
Wyche,  Henry,  6,  7,  599. 

 ,  Hugh,  387,  433. 

Wychecote.    See  Whichecotes. 
Wychecote,  John,  127. 
Wychenore.    See  Wichnor. 
Wychwood,  co.  Oxford,  forest  of,  90. 
Wychynghani.  Sec  Witchingham  ;  Wichyng- 

ham. 

Wyclyff,  Robert,  177. 
Wycombe,  co.  Buckingham,  390. 

 ,  letters  patent  dated  at,  470. 

 ,  Great,  co.  Buckingham,  212. 

 ,  Chipping,  230. 

 ,  West,  472. 

Wydecombe,  co.  Dorset,  457,  529. 
Wydeford.    See  Widford. 
Wydeslade,  Wyteslade,  John,  4,  84,  171,  400, 
427,  464,  574. 
 Richard,  407,  427,  464,  613. 


Wydeville,  Wodevillc,  Wideville,  Antony,  earl 
of  Ryvers,  lord  of  Scales  and  Nuselles 
and  the  Isle  of  Wight,  19,  41,  55-57, 
69,100,105,  109,  120-128,  152,  155, 
169,  170,  195-197,  199,  206,  220,  221, 
267,  283,  285,  292,  339,373,  375,  376, 
403,  406,  417,  421-424,  429,  475,  553, 
582,  583,  606,  609,  614-616,  618,  622, 
624,  627,  629,  631,  636. 

 ,   ,  chief  butler  of  England,  393, 

410,  412,  415,  443,  548,  553,  565. 

 lieutenant  of  Calais,  450. 

 ,   ,  Elizabeth  his  wife,  152. 

 ,  Edmund,  167,  231. 

 ,  John,  19. 

 ,  Leonard,  39. 

 ,  Lionel,  warden  of  the  hospital  of  St. 

Katharine  by  the  Tower  of  Loudon, 
541. 

 ,  Richard,  228,  257,  607,  624. 

..........   ,  earl  of  IJyvers,  lord  of  Grafton 

and  la  Mote,  the  queen's  father,  19,  55, 
69,  102,103,  126-128,  158,  170,  183, 
343,  376,  421,  584,  617,  623,  631. 

 ,  constable  of  England,  19,  59, 

97,  178. 

 ,   treasurer  of  England,  33, 59, 97, 

154,  170. 

 ,  Jaquetta  his  wife,  190,  327, 

334,  343,  584. 
Wydower,  Nicholas,  420. 
Wydryngtou.    Sec  Widdrington. 
Wye,  CO.  Kent,  hundred  of,  300. 
Wye  river,  365. 
VV^ye,  John,  4. 

Wyehall,  Weley  (in  Northfield),  co.  Wor- 
cester, 303. 
Wygenhale.    See  Wigsenhall. 
Wygeston,  Wyggeston,  Roger,  213. 

 Thomas,  212. 

Wyggdon,  eo.  Devon,  27. 
Wyggebergh.    See  Wigborough. 
Wyght,  John,  500. 
Wyghthille.    See  Whitehill. 
Wyghthyll,  Robert,  420. 
Wyghton.    See  Wyton. 
Wygmore.    See  Wigmore. 
Wygmore,  John,  parson  of  Scales,  313. 
Wyk.    Sec  Wick. 

Wyke  in  Yatton,  co.  Somerset,  280,  281. 
\\'yke  Resynden,  Wyke  Rusyngdon.  See 

Risington  Wick. 
Wyke.    See  Week. 
Wyke,  John,  7. 

 Margaret  his  wife,  7. 

 ,  Thomas,  434. 

Wykehum,  William  of,  bishop  of  Winchester 
[136G-1404],  539. 

 ,   ,  sheriff  of  Oxford  and  Berks 

116. 

Wykeley,  John,  abbot  of  St.  James  by  North- 
ampton, 594. 


810 


GENERAL  INDEX. 


Wykemere.    See  Wickmere. 
Wykes,  co.  Lincoln,  529. 
Wykes,  Wykys,  John,  32,  33,  186,  346,  403, 
429,  435,  437,  558,  615,  622. 

 ,   ,  Isabel  his  wife,  437. 

 ,  Thomas,  482. 

 William,  197. 

Wykewan,  co.  Gloucester,  473. 
Wykys.    See  Wykes. 
Wylbey.    See  Wilby. 
Wylbyes.    See  Wilbyes. 
Wylcokys,  John,  405. 
Wylcotes.    See  Wilcotes. 
Wylde.    See  Wilde. 
Wyldehora,  co.  Essex,  131. 
Wyldy.    See  Wildy. 
Wyles,  Kobert,  73. 
Wyllies,  John,  164. 

 ,  William,  164,  384. 

Wylkynson.    See  Wilkynson. 
Wyllerdby.    See  Willerby. 
Wyllyam.    See  William. 
Wyllyams,  John,  578. 
Wyllyems,  John,  502. 

   ,  Margaret  his  wife,  502. 

Wyllescombe.    See  Wiveliscombe. 
Wylly.    See  Willy. 
Wylmot.    See  Wilmote. 
Wylowedyke,  170. 
Wylstre,  Henry,  60. 
 ,  John,  60. 

Wylteshire,  Wylshire,  Thomas,  81,  300. 
Wymark,  Thomas,  316. 
Wymbersley.    See  Womersley. 
Wymbissh,  Wymbyssh,  Thomas,  28, 285,  620, 
621. 

 ,  ,  sherift  of  Lincoln,  549. 

Wymbussh.    See  Wimbish. 
Wymondham,  Wyndam,  co.    Nc  rfolk,  144, 
562. 

Wymondham,  John,  the  younger,  151. 
Wymple.    See  Whimple. 
Wynandremere.    See  Windermere. 
Wynard,  Christopher,  128. 

 ,  John,  57,  100,  128. 

Wynche,  John,  77. 
Wyuchecombe.    See  Winchcombe. 
Wynchecombe,  William,   abbot  of  Winch- 

combe,  440. 
Wynchelsee.    See  Winchelsea. 
Wynchestre  fee,  cos.  Leicester  and  Warwick, 

26,  517. 
Wynchestre,  Ralph,  53. 
Wyncletracy.    See  Winkleigh  Tracy. 
Wyndam.    See  Wymondham. 
Wyudandymer.    See  Windermere. 
Wyude,  Nicholas,  12. 

 ,  Rannlph,  323. 

  .,  Thomas,  203. 

  William,  203. 


Wyndham,  John,  the  younger,  151. 
Wyndesore,  Thomas,  295,  509,  622. 

 ,  William,  95. 

Wynell,  John,  11,  383. 

Wyneman,  Henry,  7. 

Wynfeld.    See  Wyngfeld. 

Wynfield.    See  Winefield. 

Wynford  Eagle,  Wynfryde  Egle  (in  Toller 

Fratrum),  co.  Dorset,  327. 
Wyng.    See  Wing. 
Wynge,  Robert,  381. 
Wyngeaulton.    See  Wincanton. 
Wyngfeld,  Wynkefeld,  Wynfeld,  John,  202, 

287,  352,  353,  375,  405,  408,  490,  631. 
  Richard,  44. 

 ,  Robert,  169,  197,  308,  352,  353,  406, 

490,  491,  501,  526,  562,  622,  631,  632. 

 ,  Anne  his  wife,  562. 

 ,  Thomas,  125,  423,  623,  631. 

 ,   ,  Philippa  his  wife,  125,  423. 

 ,  Thomas,  escheator  in  the  counties  of 

Surrey  and  Sussex,  155. 

 William,  318. 

Wyngham.    See  Wingham. 

Wyugrave.    See  Wingrave. 

Wynkelekeynes.    See  Winkleigh  Keynes. 

Wynkefeld.    See  Wyngfeld. 

Wynne,  John,  289,  407,  615,  616. 

 ,  Reginald,  433,  452. 

Wynnyng,  William,  162. 

Wynshelys,  .John,  514. 

WynshuU.    See  Winshill. 

Wynsladale.    See  Wensleydale. 

Wynslede,  Richard,  427. 

Wynsloo,  Richard,  57. 

Wynter,  Edmund,  382. 

 John,  581. 

 ,  Robert,  30. 

 ,  Thomas,  433. 

Wynterborn.    See  Winterbourne. 

Wynterborn,  Wynterborne,  Thomas,  52,  375, 
434. 

 Thomas,  dean  of  St.  Paul's,  London, 

460. 

Wyntershill,  Wyntersell,  Wyntreshill,  Robert, 
246,  248,  351,  632. 

 ,  Thomas,  405,  452,  632. 

Wynton.    See  Winton. 
Wynton,  Richard,  9. 
Wyntreslowe.    See  Winterslow. 
Wyrardisbury,  co.  Buckingham,  232. 
Wyresdale,  Nether  [co.  Lancaster],  334,  532. 
Wyrkesworth.    See  Wirksworth. 
Wyrmyngey.    See  Wormegay. 
Wyrtell.    See  Writell. 

Wysbech,  Wysebeche.  John,  abbot  of  Croy 
land,  181,  205,  604. 

Wysberd.    See  Wiseberd. 

Wysbych.    See  Wisbech. 

Wyse.    See  Wise. 


GENERAL  INDEX. 


811 


Wyseberd.  See  Wiscberd. 
Wyseman.  See  Wiseman. 
Wysewall,  John,  130. 

 Eoger,  130. 

Wysham,  Kalph,  29. 
Wyshard,  Thomas,  143. 

 ,  Alice  his  wife,  143. 

Wyssebeche.    See  Wisbeach. 
Wyteslade.    See  Wydeslade. 
Wyth,  Philip,  519. 
Wytham.    See  Witham. 
Wytheford  [co.  Southampton],  571. 
Wythepoll.    See  WithipoU. 
Wytherygge.    See  Witheridge. 
Wythes,  John,  600. 
Wythornse.    See  Withernsea. 
Wythome  Wyke.    See  Withernwick. 
Wythornwyk,  William,  264,  269. 
Wytlesford.    Sec  Whittlesford. 
Wytlesmere.    See  Whitllesea  Mere. 
Wyton,  Wyghtoii,  co.  York,  207. 
Wytsand.    See  Wissant. 
Wyttingham.    See  Whitingham. 
Wyvenhoo.    See  Wivenhoe. 
Wyverstone,  co.  SufiFolk,  255. 
Wyveton.    See  Wiveton, 
Wyvyle,  Robert,  436. 
 ,  ,  Beatrice  his  wife,  436. 


Y. 

Yakesle,  Yaxley,  Richard,  246,  248,  631. 
Yalding,  Yeldyng,  co.  Kent,  145,  146. 
Yarborough,  Yerburgh,  co.  Lincoln,  72. 
Yard,  Gilbert,  37,  100.  / 

 ,  Richard,  37. 

 ,   ,  Joan  his  wife,  37. 

Yardeley,  Yerdeley,  'John,  50,  318,  331,  489, 
604. 

 ,  Oliver,  .50,  331,  604. 

Yare,  Thomas,  409. 

Yareburght,  Hobert,  rector  of  Ettou,  21. 
Yaresthorpe,  co.  York,  483,  486,  487. 
Yarmouth,  Jernemuth,  port  of,  167,  231,  268, 
592. 

 ,  Great,  250,393. 

 ,  burgesses  of,  250,  393. 

 ,  port  of,  266,  375,  393. 

 ,   ,  ship  called  le  Michell  of,  250. 

Yarsthorpe  [co.  York],  287. 
Yarum,  Richard,  253. 

 Robert,  382. 

Yarward,  William,  506. 

Yateley,  Yatelby  [co.  Southampton],  81. 

Yattendon,  co.  ISerks,  241. 

Yatton,  CO.  Somerset,  280,  281. 


Ybanus,  Peter.  249. 

Ychyn,  Robert,  183. 

Yde.    See  Ide. 

Yealmpton,  co.  Devon,  60. 

Yeanston,  Endeston,  co.  Somerset,  63, 394. 

 ..,  alien  priory  of,  394. 

Yedestan,  co.  Somerset,  187. 

Yee,  CO.  Devon,  343. 

Yefteley.    See  Iffley. 

Yeldham  Hall,  co.  Essex,  297,  560. 

Yeldyng.    See  Yalding. 

YelvertOB,  William,  70,  102,  103,  127,  128, 

169-171,  221,  251,  378,  405,  613,  616, 

618,  622,  630,  632,  633. 
 ,   ,  justice  of  the  King's  Bench, 

226,  229. 
Yendestowe.    See  Instow. 
Yen  Hall,  Enhale  [in  West  Wickhara],  co. 

Cambridge,  297,  556. 
Yenyn,  Geoffrey,  94. 
Yeo,  William,  246,  247. 
Yeovil.  Yevell,  co.  Somerset,  221,  604. 
Yepiswiche.    See  Ipswich. 
Yerburgh.    See  Yarborough. 
Yerburgh,  William,  218,  286. 
Yerde,  John,  226. 
Yerdeley.    See  Yardeley. 
Y'ermouth.    See  Y'armoufh. 
Yernescombe,  co.  Devon,  343. 
Y'etton,  in  South  Tawton,  co.  Devon,  502. 
Yevan,  John,  39. 
Yevelchestre.    See  Ilchester. 
Yevell.    See  Yeovil. 
Ycveton.    See  Ivytou. 

Yewarne  Courteiiey.    See  Iwerne  Courtenay. 

Ylcestre.    See  Ilchester. 

Yns,  Ralph,  382,  498. 

Yogge,  William,  216. 

Y'olton.    See  Youlton. 

Yoly,  Henry,  149. 

Y'on,  William,  abbot  of  .St.  James  by  North 

ampton,  278. 
Yonge,  Y'ong,  John,  10,  168,  326,  341,  410, 

476,  501. 

 ,   ,  mayor  of  London,  35. 

 ,  mayor  of  the  staple  of  Calais, 

586. 

   the  younger,  321 . 

 ,    Agnes  his  wife,  321. 

 ,  Laurence,  552. 

 ,  Reginald,  163. 

 Thomas,  .5.3,  70,  82,  84,  92,  102,  103, 

127,  128,  170-172,  202,  221,  246,  247, 
251,  454,  523,  593,  610,  612-614,  628, 
629,  635. 

 ,  justice  of  the  King's  Bench, 

515,  .549. 

 ,  ,  justice  of  the  Common  Bench, 

59,  180,  227,  229,  344. 

 ,  William,  215,  429,  579,  628. 

Y'onger,  Richiird,  277. 


812 


GENERAL  INDEX. 


Yore.    See  Ure. 

York,  5,  9,  11,  34,  47,  54,  92,  94,  103,  114, 
128,  152,  153,  164,  171,  206,  221,  224, 
238,  260,  267,  279,  305,  315,  316,  320, 
328,  333,  347,  362,  374,  382,  416,  431, 
432,  440,  454,  458,  462,  496,  499,  502, 
516,  518,  530,  572,  575,  581,  593. 

 ,  letters  patent  dated  at,  205-207,  219. 

 ,  mayor  of,  239,  550,  572. 

  And  see  Holhek;  Thryske;  Lematon; 

Yorke;  Marchall. 

 ,  ...  ,.,  ordinance  for  the  election  of, 

238,416. 

 sheriffs  of,  378. 

 ,  outlawry  in,  6,  9,  321,  323,  326,  382, 

431,  432,  502,  575,  580,  581. 

 ,  naint  at,  149,  150. 

 subsidy  and  uinage  of  cloth  in,  328, 

333,  335,  347,  478,  537. 

 ,  weavers  of,  117. 

 ,  province  of,  99,  131. 

 ,  diocese  of,  21,  89,  173,  207,  267,  299, 

304,  369,  396,  417,  446,  504,  544,  585. 
 ,  archbishopric  of,  125,  126,  346,  588, 

604. 

 ,  archbishop  of,  131. 

  And  see  Neville  ;  Bothe. 

 ,  St.  William,  archbishop  of,  131. 

 ,  cathedral  of,  268,  340,  569. 

 ,  ,  dean  of.    See  Andrewe. 

 ,  ,  dean  and  chapter  of,  326,  591. 

 ,  ,  prebend  of  Holme  Archiepiscopi 

in,  323. 

 St.  Mary's,  abbot  of,  131. 

 ,  hospital  of  St.  Leonard,  15,  421. 

 ,  ,  master  and  brethren  of,  131. 

 ,  ,  William  Eure,  warden  of,  421. 

 hospital  of  St.  Nicholas,  15. 

 ,  ,  Thomas  Usburn,  warden  of,  15. 

 ,   ,  Master  John  Shirmode,  warden 

of,  15,  240. 

 ,  monastery  of  Holy  Trinity,  355,377. 

 ,   ,  Kobert  Huby,  prior  of,  355. 

 ,  county  of,  44,  54,  56,  92,  103,  131, 

171,  200,  206,  207,  219,  242,  251,  260, 
261,  267,  278,  329,  333,  347,  355,  362, 
408,  455,  462,  479,  492,  555,  572,  587. 

,  ,  ,  sheriff  of,  44,  55,  56,  92,  199, 

200,  251,  267,  349,  355,  361,  378,  393. 
407,  408,  490,  492,  525,  593. 

  And  see  Straugways ;  Conyers ; 

Ayssheton  ;  Constable  ;  Haryngton. 

 ,   ,  escheator  in,  550,  597. 


York.    And  see  Fereby;  Woderove;  Fitz- 

william  ;  Willesthorpe  ;  Sharp  ;  Port- 

yngton  ;  Coton. 
 subsidy  and  uinage  of  cloth  in, 

328,  329,  333,  335,  347,  478,  537. 
 ,  ,  outlawries  in,  1-3,  6,  10,  47, 

72-77, 80,  142-148,  253,  322,  323, 327, 

381-386,  436,  477,  499,  502,  503,  575, 

578,  581,  582,  600. 
 ,   ,  East  Riding  of,  199,  349,  354, 

407,  428,  430,  496. 
 ,  ,  ,  commissions  of  the  peace 

in,  636. 

 ,  ,  North  Riding  of,  200,  349,  408, 

430,  490,  496. 

 ,  ,        ,  commissions  of  the  peace, 

in,  637. 

 ,  ,  West  Riding  of,  199,  349,  408, 

430,  490,  496. 
 ,  ,  ,  justices  of  the  peace  in, 

55. 

 ,  ,  ,  commissions  of  the  peace 

in,  637. 

York,  Yorke,  John,  81,  145,  323,  348,  523, 
539. 

 ,  Richard,  572. 

 ,   ,  mayor  of  York,  316. 

 ,  Robert,  287. 

 ,  William,  349,  523,  622. 

 ,  ,  Agnes  his  wife,  523. 

Yotton,  Thomas,  518. 

Youlton,  Yolton,  co.  York,  20,  419. 

Yoxford,  CO.  Suffolk,  498. 

YvGton.    See  Ivyton. 

Yworthy.    See  Eworthy. 


z. 

Zeboll,  John,  307. 

Zeeland,  Seland,  29,  113,  266,  493. 

Ziles,  Laurence,  488. 

Zouche,  He  la  Zouche,  John,  45,  48,  97,  112, 

235,  327,  373,  504. 

 ,  William,  152,  235,  373,  623. 

 ,   ,  Katharine  his  wife,  152,  373. 

 ,  William,  lord,  45,  327. 

 ,  Elizabeth  his  wife,  327. 

 ,  William,  lord  Zouche  and  Seymour, 

45,  48,  97,  112,327,  373. 

 ,  ,  of  Totneys,  242. 

Zouches  Maners,  co.  Cambridge,  480. 


GETTY  RESEARCH  INSTITUTE 


3  3125  01203  0553 


