Google 


This  is  a  digital  copy  of  a  book  that  was  preserved  for  generations  on  library  shelves  before  it  was  carefully  scanned  by  Google  as  part  of  a  project 

to  make  the  world's  books  discoverable  online. 

It  has  survived  long  enough  for  the  copyright  to  expire  and  the  book  to  enter  the  public  domain.  A  public  domain  book  is  one  that  was  never  subject 

to  copyright  or  whose  legal  copyright  term  has  expired.  Whether  a  book  is  in  the  public  domain  may  vary  country  to  country.  Public  domain  books 

are  our  gateways  to  the  past,  representing  a  wealth  of  history,  culture  and  knowledge  that's  often  difficult  to  discover. 

Marks,  notations  and  other  maiginalia  present  in  the  original  volume  will  appear  in  this  file  -  a  reminder  of  this  book's  long  journey  from  the 

publisher  to  a  library  and  finally  to  you. 

Usage  guidelines 

Google  is  proud  to  partner  with  libraries  to  digitize  public  domain  materials  and  make  them  widely  accessible.  Public  domain  books  belong  to  the 
public  and  we  are  merely  their  custodians.  Nevertheless,  this  work  is  expensive,  so  in  order  to  keep  providing  tliis  resource,  we  liave  taken  steps  to 
prevent  abuse  by  commercial  parties,  including  placing  technical  restrictions  on  automated  querying. 
We  also  ask  that  you: 

+  Make  non-commercial  use  of  the  files  We  designed  Google  Book  Search  for  use  by  individuals,  and  we  request  that  you  use  these  files  for 
personal,  non-commercial  purposes. 

+  Refrain  fivm  automated  querying  Do  not  send  automated  queries  of  any  sort  to  Google's  system:  If  you  are  conducting  research  on  machine 
translation,  optical  character  recognition  or  other  areas  where  access  to  a  large  amount  of  text  is  helpful,  please  contact  us.  We  encourage  the 
use  of  public  domain  materials  for  these  purposes  and  may  be  able  to  help. 

+  Maintain  attributionTht  GoogXt  "watermark"  you  see  on  each  file  is  essential  for  in  forming  people  about  this  project  and  helping  them  find 
additional  materials  through  Google  Book  Search.  Please  do  not  remove  it. 

+  Keep  it  legal  Whatever  your  use,  remember  that  you  are  responsible  for  ensuring  that  what  you  are  doing  is  legal.  Do  not  assume  that  just 
because  we  believe  a  book  is  in  the  public  domain  for  users  in  the  United  States,  that  the  work  is  also  in  the  public  domain  for  users  in  other 
countries.  Whether  a  book  is  still  in  copyright  varies  from  country  to  country,  and  we  can't  offer  guidance  on  whether  any  specific  use  of 
any  specific  book  is  allowed.  Please  do  not  assume  that  a  book's  appearance  in  Google  Book  Search  means  it  can  be  used  in  any  manner 
anywhere  in  the  world.  Copyright  infringement  liabili^  can  be  quite  severe. 

About  Google  Book  Search 

Google's  mission  is  to  organize  the  world's  information  and  to  make  it  universally  accessible  and  useful.   Google  Book  Search  helps  readers 
discover  the  world's  books  while  helping  authors  and  publishers  reach  new  audiences.  You  can  search  through  the  full  text  of  this  book  on  the  web 

at|http: //books  .google  .com/I 


I 


I>f 


1>\ 

xs 


I 


V 


/•/^ 


t:>f 


f'^:2 


CALENDAR  ■ 


OF   THB 


PATENT    ROLLS 


PRBSERYED   IN  THR 


PUBLIC    RECORD    OFFICE. 


^  %  •  *r*»  *y  «/  vyv\/%'\y»/*'  *y  */\yv'w/«-#  »/v/x/\>  •yv/ 


PREPABKD  UNDER  THE  SUPERINTENDENCE  OF 

THE  DEPUTY  KEEPER  OF  THE  RECORDS. 


EDWARD    IV. 


A.D.  1461—1467. 


PUBLISHED   BY   AUTHORITY  OF   HER   MAJESTY'S  PRINCIPAL   SECRETARY   OF   STATE 

FOR  THE    HOME  DEPARTMENT. 


*^v/K/  k*  »*\^*'\^\^\y«.'V/k/w«,/\^kyft'*/vy*'  "^x* 


LONDON: 
PBINTBD  FOR  HEE  MAlJESTY'S  STATIONERY  OFFICE, 

BY  BYRB  AND  8POTTI8WOODE, 
FBINTSRS  TO  THE  QITE£N*S  MOST  EXCELLENT  MAJESTY. 


And  to  be  purchased,  either  directly  or  through  any  Bookseller,  from 

EYRE  AND  SPOTTISWOODE,  East  Hakding  Street,  Fleet  Street,  E.O.  ;  or 

JOHN  MENZIES  &  Co..  12,  Hanover  Street,  Edinburgh,  and 

90,  West  Nile  Street,  Glasgow;  or 

HODGES,  FIGGIS,  &  Co.,  Limited,  104,  Grafton  Street,  Dublin, 

1897. 


CONTENTS, 


Page 

Preface    --.-----▼ 

Cohrigenba  -  -  •  -  -  "  -      vii 

Calendar  --------I 

Index       --.--•--    673 


«     86914.         Wt.  1080.  "  ^ 


PREFACE. 


The  present  volume  forms  part  of  a  series  of  Calendars 
of  the  Patent  Rolls  from  the  reign  of  Edward  I.  to  that 
of  Henry  VII.  the  object  and  character  of  which  are  ex- 
plained in  the  Preface  to  the  first  volume  for  the  reign 
of  Edward  III.  (a.d.  1327—1330.)  The  text  has  been 
prepared,  under  my  immediate  supervision,  by  Mr.  R.  C. 
Fowler,  with  the  assistance  of  Mr.  R.  F.  Isaacson,  both  of 
the  Public  Record  OflBce.  Mr.  Fowler  has  also  compiled 
the  Index. 

H.  C.  MAXWELL- LYTB. 
July  1897. 


CORRIGENDA. 


Pkge  10,  line     1,/or  Northljen  read  Northljen. 

18,  „  torchmaker  (branderatoris)  read  broiderer  (braaderatoris). 

1,  „  Ketesgate  read  Eefteagate. 

36,  „  Fru8  read  YrWs. 

45,  ,9  Northlien  read  Xorthlieu. 

35,  dele  in  the  dioceM  of  Canterbury,  and  at  the  end  of  the  entry  read 
The  letters  are  directed  to  Thomas,  archbishop  of  Canterbury. 

42,  for  pass  read  straits. 

83,  dele  comma  after  Hnyssh. 

30,  after  moiety  read  of. 

22, /or  Llangeven  read  LlangeTen. 

18,  „  surrices  read  surviTes. 


w 

15, 

w 

>» 

53, 

f> 

>» 

79, 

t> 

l> 

104, 

>» 

» 

176, 

» 

n 

222, 

>» 

n 

265, 

>» 

n 

287, 

» 

n 

425, 

M 

n 

435, 

fl 

CALENDAR 


OF  THE 


PATENT    ROLLS 


1  EDWARD  IV.— Pabt  I. 


1461. 

March  21. 
'Westminster. 

April  8. 
Westminster. 


April  8. 
[..Westminster. 


Membrane  27. 

Protection,  for  two  3'ears,  for  Edmund  Grey  of  Euthyn,  knight,  going 
beyond  seas^  and  his  men  and  possessions. 

Appointment,  fduring  pleasure,  of  William  Notyngham  as  the  king's 
attorney  general  in  all  the  king's  courts  of  record  in  England,  receiving  the 
accustomed  fees.  By  K. 

Grant,  during  pleasure,  to  Thomas  Groxton  of  the  offices  of  coroner  and 
attorney  of  the  crown  in  the  court  of  King's  Bench,  receiving  the  accustomed 
fees. 


June  22. 
'  Westminster. 


July  6. 
Westminster. 


July  11. 

Westminster. 


Nov.  18. 

Westminster. 

Nov.  17. 

Westminster. 


Nov.  20. 
Westminster. 

Nov.  21. 
Westminster. 

Nov.  28. 
Westminster. 


u    86914. 


Membrane  26* 

Pardons  of  outlawry  to  the  following  : — 
John  BuUesdon,  late  of  Neweton  Sayntlo,  co.  Somerset,  esquire,  for 
not  appearing  before  John  Prysot  and  his  fellows,  justices  of  the 
Bench  in  the  late  reign,  to  answer  John  Austell,  esquire,  touching  a 
debt  of  20/.,  he  having  surrendered  to  the  Flete  prison,  as  appears 
by  certificate  of  Robert  Danby,  chief  justice.  Middlesex. 

Boger  Webbe,  late  citizen  and  barber-surgeon  of  London,  for  not 
appearing  to  answer  John  Clerk,  citizen  and  grocer  of  London, 
touching  a  debt  of  9/.  13^.  4d.  Middlesex. 

Walter  Heende  of  Barton  on  Humbre,  co.  Lincoln,  merchant,  for  not 
appearing  to  answer  John  Smyth  of  Elkyngton  and  V/illiam  Smyth 
of  Welton  touching  a  debt  of  98/.  13*.  4d.  Lincoln. 

John  Debbenham,  late  of  Eye,  co.  Suffolk,  *  draper,'  for  not  appearing 
to  answer  John  Senycle  alias  Senekyll,  citizen^and  *  haberdas^her  * 
of  London,  touching  a  debt  of  11/.  I5s,  London, 

William  Bayes  of  Great  Cateworth,  co.  Huntingdon,  *  husbondman,' 
for  not  appearing  to  answer  John  Styward  touching  a  debt  of 
lOOs.  and  Eobert  Norton,  chaplain,  touching  a  trespass. 

London  &  Lincoln. 

Thomas  Champemoun  of  Havont,  co.  Southampton,  merchant,  for  not 
appearing  to  answer  Simon  Patrik,  burgess  and  merchant  of 
Southampton,  touching  a  debt  of  9/.  Southampton. 

John  Dene,  late  of  Great  Barynton,  co.  Gloucester,  *  husbondman,'  for 
not  appearing  to  answer  Richard  Ryche  of  London,  *  mercer,'  and 
Robert  Basset  of  London,  '  Salter,'  touching  a  debt  of  40*.     Londcn. 

John  Crosby,  late  vicar  of  Wrothara,  co.  Kent,  alias  of  Ezton,  co. 
Southampton,  clerk,  for  not  appearing  to  answer  John  Pemberton, 
clerk,  and  Richard  Sanke  of  Sele  touching  a  debt  of  9/.     Middlesex. 

Wt.  1080.  ^ 


CALENDAB  OF  PATENT  BOLLS. 


1461. 


Nov.  17. 
Westminster. 

Nov.  4. 
Westminster. 

Nov.  27. 
Westminster. 


Nov.  26. 
Westminster. 


Nov.  26. 

Westminster. 


July  11. 
Westminster. 

Nov.  16. 

Westminster. 


Nov.  24. 
Westminster. 

.  Nov.  24. 

Westminster. 

Nov.  28. 
Westminster. 

1462. 

Jan.  26. 

Westminster. 

Jan.  26. 
Westminster. 

1461. 

.Tulj  11. 
Westminster. 


Membrane  26 — cont. 

John  Sjser  of  Swafham  Priour,  co.  Cambridge^ '  husbondman/  for  not 
appearing  to  answer  touching  a  plea  that  he  render  goods  to  Thomas 
HUdersham.  Suffolk. 

Membrane  25. 

John  Don jngton  of  the  parish  of  Stonle,  oo.  Warwick,  ^  husbondman,^ 
for  not  appearing  to  answer  John  Campyon  touching  a  delit  of  40«. 

Bedford.. 

John  Peyto,  late  of  Chesterton,  co.  Warwick,  esqoire,  for  not  appearing 
to  answer  Bobert  Colby,  citizen  and  clothier  of  London,  touching  a 
debt  of  10/.  London* 

Bichard  Towold,  late  of  Pavenham,  co.  Bedford,  *yoman,'  for  not 
appearing  to  answer  Bichard  lUyngworth  touching  a  debt  of  40 
marks.  Middlesex. 

Thomas  Broun,  late  of  Pavenham, '  husbondman,*  for  the  same. 

Middlesex.. 

Christopher  Spenser  of  Langtoft,  co.  York,  esqaire,  for  not  appearing 
to  answer  William  Say,  dean  of  St.  Paul's,  Londou,  touching  a  debt 
of  8/.,  and  touching  a  plea  that  he  render  lOOs,  to  Bichard  Peroy,. 
esquire,  and  Katharine  his  wife,  late  the  wife  of  William  Fayrfax, 
esquire,  who  died  intestate,  and  administratrix  of  his  goods. 

Berks  &  London.. 

Thomas  Bland  of  Derby,  *  chapman,'  for  not  appearing  to  answer  John 
Wheler, '  gurdeler,'  touching  a  debt  of  40«.  Middlesex. 

Mbmbrane  24. 

John  at  Yate  of  Canford,  co.  Dorset,  *  husbondman,'  for  not  appearing  to- 
answer  John,  prior  of  Bradenestok,  touching  a  debt  of  20/.       Wilts. 

Thomas  Schucburgh,  late  of  Stony  Stratford,  co.  Buckingham,  esquire,, 
for  not  appearing  to  answer  Thomas  Clarell  and  Thomas  £dy  touching 
a  debt  of  20/.  Buckingham. 

Martin  Scap,  late  of  the  parish  of  Burghmerssh,  co.  Kent,  ^  yoman,* 
for  not  appearing  to  answer  touching  a  plea  that  he  render  50/.  to 
Thomas,  bishop  of  London,  administrator  of  the  goods  of  John, 
cardinal  bishop  of  St.  Buffina,  archbishop  of  Canterbury  and  legate 

'   of  the  apostolic  see,  who  died  intestate.  Middlesex* 

William  Pertryche  of  Bi*etford,  co.  Warwick,  '  husbondman,'  for  not 
appearing  to  answer  William  Seyntegeorge,  knight,  and  Thomas 
Boughton  touching  a  debt  of  10  marks.  Cambridge^ 

John  Gk>wesell  of  Haburgh,  co.  Lincoln,  '  husbondman,'  for  not  appear- 
ing to  answer  WiUiam  Skipwith  touching  a  debt  of  20/.    Middlesex. 

Thomas  Groundeswily  of  Charleton,  co.  Dorset,  ^  husbondman,'  for  not 
appearing  to  answer  John  Barbour,  touching  a  trespass.    Southampton . 

Henry  Swynshed  of  Chorleton,  co.  Stafford,  'yoman,'  Isabel  his  wife 
and  Geoffrey  Swynshed  of  Chorleton,  'husbondman,'  for  not 
appearing  to  answer  Thomas  Shelton  touching  a  trespass.     Bedford. 

The  same,  for  the  same. 

Membrane  23. 

Stephen  Hoggys  of  Frethynden,  co.  Kent, '  gentilman,' administrator 
of  the  goods  of  John  Hoggys,  wbo  died  intestate,  for  not  appearing 
to  answer  John  Palmer  touching  a  debt  of  40s.  Surrey. 


1  EDWARD  IV.— Part  L 


3 


1461. 


Oct.  16. 

Wettnungter. 


Oct.  16. 

Westminster. 

Oct.  17. 

Westminster. 

1462. 

Jan.  23. 

Westminster. 


1461. 

Nov.  18. 
Westminster. 

1462. 

Jan.  28. 
Westminster. 

Jan.  29. 

W^sttninster. 

Jan.  2. 

Westminster. 

Jan.  28. 

Westminster. 


Membrane  23 — cont, 

Richard  Scarburgh  of  London^  clerk,  alias  scholar,  son  of  John  Scar- 
burgh,  late  citieen  and  skinner  of  London,  for  not  appearing  to  answer 
John  Stonjs,  citizen  and  skinner  of  London,  touching  a  debt  of  20/. 

London. 

Henry  Poole,  citizen  and  goldsmith,  of  London,  for  not  appearing  to 
answer  John  Broun  of  London,  ^gentiljnan,'  touching  a  debt  of  200/. 

Middlesex. 

Oliver  Skjnner  of  Oxford,  ^  husbondman,'  alias  Oliver  Urrj  of  Oxford, 
skinner,  for  not  appearing  to  answer  Ancbrew  Jamys  and  Thomas 
Beleter,  citizen  and  mercer  of  London,  touching  debts  of  lOOf.  and 
12/.  I5s.  4d,  respectively.  Southampton  &  London. 

John  Whitwell  of  Egilton,  oo.  Butlan/d,  '  husbondman,'  for  not  appear- 
ing to  answer  John  Clement,  clerk,  and  Thomas  Southsex, '  woiman,' 
touching  a  debt  of  15  marks.  Leicester. 

Geffrey  Forster  of  Bypon,  co.  York,  alias  late  of  Lincoln,  'littester,' 
for  not  appearing  to  answer  William  Stanes,  citizen  and  '  littester ' 
of  York,  touching  a  debt  of  12/.  13^.  4d.  York. 

William  Londe  of  Boreton,  co.  Devon,  groom,  for  not  appearing  when 
sued  with  Joan  late  the  wife  of  Thomas  Londe  of  Boreton, '  wedowe^' 

'  and  Thomas  Guynterell  of  Plympton  Comitis,  co.  Devon,  ^  wever,'  to 
answer  William  Halswell  touching  a  trespass.  Devon. 

WQliam  Bucton,  late  of  Usflete,  co.  York,  knight,  for  not  appearing 
to  answer  Christopher  Warter,  late  alderman  and  citizen  and  skinner 
of  London,  touching  a  debt  of  21/.  9s.  lOd, 

Boger  Weld  of  Iseldon,  co.  Middlesex,  '  courser,'  for  not  appearing  to 
answer  John  Lathum,  clerk,  touching  a  debt  of  6/.  13^.  4c/.      York. 

John  Bede  of  Stepyll  Bomstede,  co.  Essex,  ^husbondman/  for  not 
appearing  to  answer  Edmund,  abbot  of  Westminster,  touching  a  debt 
of  40/.  Essex. 

Edward  Pope  of  Whittokesmede,  co.  Somerset, '  husbondman,'  for  not 
appearing  to  answer  the  abbot  and  convent  of  St.  Mary's,  Cirencester, 
touching  a  debt  of  100/.  Gloucester. 

William  Pedefere  of  Bilton,  co.  Warwick, '  frankeleyn,'  for  not  appear- 
ing to  answer  Thomas  Worsley,  rector  of  Bylton,  touching  a  debt  of 
26  marks,  6«.  Sd.  Warwick. 


1461. 

Oct.  20. 

Westminster. 


Oct.  — . 

Westminster. 

Oct.  29. 

Westminster. 


Mbmbranb  22. 

John  Sudbury,  rector  of  Spryngfeld,  co.  Essex,  for  not  anpearing  to 
answer  Thomas,  bishop  of  London,  touching  a  debt  of  20/. 

l\Iiddlesex. 

John  Newman,  of  Great  Holand,  co.  Essex,  clerk,  for  not  appearing  to 
answer  William  Haliday  touching  a  debt  of  10/.  Essex. 

Stephen  Hoggys,  late  of  Frythenden,  co.  Kent,  '  gentilman,'  for  net 
appearing  to  answer  William  Crosman,  citizen  and  mercer  of 
London,  touching  a  debt  of  40».  London. 

John  Glosse  of  Dulverton,  co.  Somerset,  'boper,'  for  not  appearing  to 
answer  Bichard  Lokyngton,  touching  a  debt  of  40f .  Devon. 

A  2 


CALENDAR  OF  PATENT  BOLLS. 


1461. 

Oct.  16. 

Westminster. 

Nov.  5. 
Westminster. 


Nov.  6. 
Westminster. 


Nov.  5. 
Westminster. 

Nov.  7. 
Westminster. 

Oct.  16. 

Westminster. 


Nov.  19. 
Westminster. 

Nov.  5. 
Westminster. 


Nov.  6. 

Westminster. 


Oct.  16. 

Westminster. 


Nov.  3. 
Westminster. 


Nov.  11. 
Westminster. 


Membrane  22 — cani. 

John  Fayn  of  HoneworUi,  oo.  Norfolk,  *  barker,'  for  not  appeariD^^  to 
answer  Nicholas  Neweman,  citizen  of  Norwich, '  draper,'  tonching  a 
debt  of  40*.  City  of  Norwich. 

William  EUjngbam  of  St.  Statmola  without  the  east  gate  of  Exeter,  co. 

Devon, '  chapman,'  for  not  appearing  to  answer  John  Lok,  citizen  and 

mercer  of  London,  Thomas  Bryan  and  Richard  Levermore  the  elder, 

'  gentilman,'  touching  a  debt  of  30/.  6«.  8d.  London. 

Thomas  Sarell,  late  of  York,  chaplfdn,  for  not  appearing  to  answer 
Bobert  Ejrkeham,  clerk,  and  Bobert  Thurkelby  touching  a  debt  of 
40s. 

William  Bourne,  late  of  Neweton  Sajntlo,  oo.  Somerset,  esquire,  for  not 
appearing  to  answer  John  Austell,  esquire,  touching  a  debt  of  20/. 

Middlesex. 

Bichard  West  of  Thirnesto,  co.  Lincoln,  *  fjssher,'  for  not  appearing  to 
answer  Bichard  Asbj  touching  a  debt  of  40s,  Lincoln. 

John  Haccheford,  late  of  Canyngton,  co.  Somerset, '  gentilman,'  for  not 
I4>pearing  to  render  40^.  to  Thomas  Holand  and  Elizabeth  his  wife, 
executrix  of  the  will  of  Edward  Colyford.  Devon. 

Bobert  Prjnce,  late  of  Feny  Sutton,  co.  WOts, '  husbondman,*  for  not 
appearing  to  answer  John  Gunture,  esquire,  touching  a  debt  of  100^. 

Sussex. 

Bichard  Tuplyon  of  Somercotes  St.  Peter,  co.  Lincoln,  *  yoman,'  for  not 
appearing  when  sued  with  William  Skortereth,  *  maryner,'  and  Boger 
Tate,  *  husbondman,'  both  of  Saltflethaven  in  the  parish  of  Skydbroke, 
CO.  Lincoln,  to  answer  John  Croftes  touching  a  trespass.    Middlesex. 

The  said  William  Skortereth,  for  the  same.  Middlesex. 

John  Derydo,  late  of  Spekyngton,  co.  Somerset,  *  husbondman,'  for  not 
appearing  to  answer  Thomas  Calwodeley  touching  a  debt  of  40/. 

Devon. 

Bobert  James,  late  of  Belchamp  St.  Paul's,  co.  Essex, '  husbondman,'  for 
not  appearing  to  answer  William  Daweson  of  London,  *  yoman,'  touch- 
ing a  debt  of  40^.,  and  to  answer  a  plea  that  he  render  20  marks  to 
John  Sturgeon  the  elder,  citizen  and  mercer  of  London,  and  Thomas 
Frowyk,  son  and  heir  of  Henry  Frowyk  the  elder,  executors  of  the 
will  of  Nicholas  Sturgeon,  chaplain.  London. 

John  Ketyll,  late  of  Poule  Belchamp,  co.  Essex, '  husbandman,'  for  not 
appearing  to  answer  William  Daweson  of  London,  *  yoman,'  touching 
a  debt  of  40*.  London. 

John  Blower  of  Tylney,  co.  Norfolk,  *  gentilman/  for  not  appearing 
when  sued  with  Bobeit  Dyxe  of  Tylney, '  husbondman,'  John  of  Towne 
of  South  Lenne,  co.  Norfolk,  baker,  and  William  Catte  of  South 
Lenne,  'somonour,'  executors  of  the  will  of  Hugh  Fenge,  late  of 
Walpole,  'taylour,'  to  render  405.  to  Thomas  Parmenter.        Suffolk. 

William  Saltmarssh,  late  of  Wakefeld,  co.  York,  *  barker,'  for  not  appear- 
ing when  sued  with  Thomas  Gybson, '  barker,'  and  Katharine  Salt- 
marssh, '  wydowe,'  both  of  Wakefeld,  to  answer  William  Gargrave, 
esquire,  touching  a  trespass.  York. 

John  Prentys  of  Thaxstede,  co.  Essex,  *  shether,'  for  not  appearing  when 
sued  with  Thomas  Grousse  and  John  Grousse  the  younger,  both  of 
Fynchyngfeld,  co.  Essex,  *  husbondmen,*  and  Edmund  Shether  and 
William  Pecker,  clerk,  both  of  Thaxstede,  to  answer  John  Phelipp 
touching  a  trespass.  Essex. 


1  EDWARD  IV.— Part  L 


1461. 

Nov.  12. 
Westminster. 


Nov.  3. 
WesfmiDster. 

Nov.  1 4. 
Westminster. 

Nov.  13. 
Westminster. 


Nov.  17. 
Westminster. 


Membrane  22 — cont. 

John  MarchaU,  late  of  Hamerton,  co.  Huntinf;don,  clerk,  for  not  appear- 
ing when  sued  with  John  Rjchere,  late  of  Hamerton, '  husbondeman/ 
to  answer  William,  abbot  of  St.  John's,  Colchester,  touching  a  debt  of 
20/.  Essex. 

Thomas'  Gybson  of  Wakefeld,  co.  York, '  barker,'  for  not  appearing  to 
answer  William  Gargrave,  esquire,  as  above.  York. 

John  Benetston,  late  of  Westshene  in  the  parish  of  Kjngeston  on 
Thames,  co.  Surrey,  *  kerver,'  for  not  appearing  to  answer  Hugh 
Fraunceys  touching  a  trespass.  Surrey. 

Thomas  Prat  of  Weston  Underwode,  co.  Bucks,  *  husbondman,'  for  not 
appearing  when  sued  with  Agnes  his  wife,  William  Achirche  of 
Weston, '  husbondman,'  and  Katharine  his  wife  to  answer  William 
Roughed  touching  a  trespass.  Bucks. 

Richard  Ivys  of  Westwynche,  co.  Norfolk,  *  husbondman,'  for  not  appear- 
ing to  answer  John  NicholaB  the  younger  touching  a  debt  of  llOs. 

Norfolk. 


June  28. 
Westminster. 

1462. 

Feb.  6. 
Westminster. 


Feb.  9. 
Westminster. 


Feb.  6. 
Westminster. 

Jan.  28. 

Westminster. 


Jan.  24. 
Westminster. 

Feb.  10. 
Westminster. 

Feb.  12. 
Westminster. 

Jan.  24. 

Westminster. 


Mbmbranb  21. 

William  Byrd,  late  of  London,  *  chapman,'  for  not  appearing  to  answer 
John  Wheler,  late  citizen  and  girdler  of  London,  touching  a  debt  of 
40s,  Middlesex. 

Thomas  Barker,  late  of  Halesworth,  co.  Suffolk, '  husbondman,'  for  not 
appearing  before  Richard  Neuton  and  his  fellows,  justices  of  the 
Bench  in  the  late  reign,  to  answer  touching  a  plea  that  he  render  40«. 
to  John  Cobbe,  chaplain,  Robert  Borell,  Nicholas  Stampard  and 
William  Elmy,  executors  of  the  will  of  Thomas  Clement,  late  of 
Halesworth.  Suffolk. 

Richard  Austyn  alias  Kelyng  of  Waldegrave,co.  Northampton, '  gentil- 
man,'  for  not  appearing  before  John  Prysot  and  his  fellows  to  answer 
William  Gedney  of  Northampton  touching  a  debt  of  4/. 

Northampton. 

Thomas  Broun  of  Maydeston,  co.  Kent,  *  skynner,'  for  not  appearing  to 
answer  Richard  Kyng  touching  a  debt  of  40s,  Kent. 

For  God  because  he  is  poor. 

Walter  Kyngton,  late  of  Woxbrygge,  co.  Middlesex, '  yoman,'  for  not 
appearing  to  answer  John  Boton  of  London, '  gentilman,'  Richard 
Claver,  citizen  and  mercer  of  London,  and  Robert  Muchgode, 
'gentilman,'  late  of  Denham,  touching  debts  of  100;.,  40/.  and  20/. 
respectively.  London. 

Richard  Baxster,  late  of  Ersham,  co.  Norfolk,  *  yoman,'  for  not  appear- 
ing to  answer  Robert  Wade  and  William  Seton,  gentlemen,  touching 
a  debt  of  20/.  Norwich. 

William  Frankeleyn  of  Culworth,  co.  Northampton,  *  husbondman,'  for 
not  appearing  to  answer  Richard  Wright  touching  a  debt  of  6  marks. 

Northampton. 

Richard  Taillour,  late  of  Newenton,  co.  Surrey, '  capper,'  for  not  appear- 
ing to  answer  John  Lodelowe  of  Hempstede  Ferrers  and  Richard 
Baldewyn  of  Wantynge  touching  a  debt  of  40s.  Surrey. 

Henry  Stone  of  Northampton,  merchant,  for  not  appearing  to  answer 
Thomas  Wates,  citizen  and  clothier  of  London,  touching  a  debt  of 
60s.  Northampton. 


6 


CALENDAR  OF  PATENT  ROLLS. 


1461. 

Nov.  6. 
WMtmmiter. 

Nov.  24. 
Wefitmxnster. 

Nov.  18. 
WestmiiMter, 


Membrane  21— con/. 

Patrick  Hejeaunt,  late  of  Rejgate,  co.  Sarrej,  '  huaboDdman/  for  not 
appearing  to  answer  William  Traas  of  London,  *  meroer/  touching 
a  debt  of  63s,  London. 

Nicholas  Bogelej  of  Fresaheford,  co.  Somerset,  '  husbondman,'  for  not 
appearing  to  answer  the  abbot  of  St.  Mary's,  Cirencestre,  tonching 
a  debt  of  100/.  Gloucester. 

Thomas  Langford,  citizen  and  *  curriour '  of  London,  for  not  appearing  to 
answer  John  Dunstaple,  goldsmith  and  citizen  of  London,  touching 
a  debt  of  18/.  London. 


MSUBRANB  20. 


April  9. 
WestminBter. 


April  20. 
York. 

April  20. 
York. 


A  pril  27. 
Durham. 


April  19. 
YoriL 

April  29. 
Darham. 


April  28. 
Durham. 


Confirmation  without  anj  fine  or  fee  to  Anne  duchess  of  Buckingham, 
late  the  wife  of  Humphrey  duke  of  Buckingham,  of  letters  patent  dated 
4  February,  89  Henry  YI.,  being  a  grant  to  her  for  life  in  dower,  in  amplifi- 
cation of  a  grant  by  letters  patent  dated  19  September,  of  the  manor  and 
lordship  of  Kynges  Hatfeld,  free  chace  and  hunting  in  the  hay  of  Hatfeld, 
the  manor  and  lordship  of  Fobbyng,  the  hundreds  of  Ongre  and  Harlowe 
with  courts  and  perquisites,  co.  Essex,  the  manor  and  lordship  of  Desenyng, 
the  manor  of  Haverhull  with  the  hamlet  of  Hersham,  cos.  Suffolk  and 
Essex,  the  manors  of  Wawens  Wotton  and  Tissho,  co.  Warwick,  the  castle, 
manor  and  lordship  of  Okeham,  co.  Rutland,  the  manor  and  hundred  of 
Rothewell  with  the  fee  farm  of  the  town  and  the  borough  there,  the  manor 
of  Slapthom  alias  Glapthom,  co.  Northampton,  the  manor  and  lordship  of 
Okham,  co.  Surrey,  the  manor  of  Pakynton,  co.  Stafford,  the  manor  and 
lordship  of  Agmondesham  and  the  manor  of  Little  Birkehill,  co.  Bucks, 
with  their  appurtenances  and  knight's  fees,  advowsons  and  other  franchises, 
parcel  of  the  possessions  of  the  late  duke  in  England,  Wales,  the  marches 
of  Wales  and  Calais.  By  p.s. 

Grant  for  life  to  Thomas  Witham  of  the  office  of  chancellor  of  the 
Exchequer,  with  the  accustomed  fees.  By  p.s. 

Appointment  for  life  of  Henry  Sotehill  as  attorney  general  in  all  courts 
of  i*ecord  in  England,  receiving  the  accustomed  fees,  with  power  of  appoint- 
ing deputies.  By  pji. 

Vacated  by  surrender  and  cancelled^  11  July,  11  Edward  IV. 

Grant  to  John  Russell  of  the  prebend  which  William  Say  had  in  the 
king's  free  chapel  of  St.  Stephen  within  his  palace  of  Westminster,  void  by 
the  resignation  of  the  latter.  By  p.s. 

Mandate  in  pursuance  to  the  dean. 

Grant  for  life  to  John  Lynde  of  the  custody  of  the  gaol  of  Norwich 
Castle,  with  the  accustomed  tees.  By  p.s. 

Grant  to  Cecilia,  late  the  wife  of  Thomas  Kiryell,  knight,  and  executrix 
of  his  wiU,  durino;  the  minority  of  Gile9  the  son  and  heir  of  William 
Daubeny  late  of  Southpederton,  co.  Somei^et,  esquire,  deceased,  of  all 
the  possessions  of  the  latter,  with  the  custody  and  marriage  of  the  heir, 
saving  to  Alice  late  the  wife  of  the  said  William  her  reasonable  dower.  If 
the  heir  die  during  minority  she  shall  have  the  same  during  the  minority 
of  the  next  heir,  and  so  on.  By  p«s. 

Appointment,  until  1  November,  of  Thomas  Stoughton,  fishmonger,  of 
London,  to  provide  stockfish,  salmon,  herrings,  and  other  salt  fish  for  the 
household.  By  bill  of  treasurer  of  the  household. 

The  like  of  Richard  Sutton,  fishmonger,  of  London,  to  provide  sea  fish. 

By  bill  of  treasurer  of  the  household. 


1  EDWARD  IV.— Pabt  I. 


1461 .  Mem^ane  20— con/. 

Maj  1.  Grant,  during  pleasorey  to  the  king's  servant  Thomas  Clemens  of  the 

^owca*tl«-on-  office  of  steward  of  the  duchy  of  Cornwall  in  the  county  of  Cornwall, 

receiving  the  fees  as  in  the  time  of  Edwanl,  prince  of  Wales,  duke   of 

Cornwall  and  earl  of  Chester,  eldest  son  of  Edward  III.  By  p.s. 


Tjne. 


May  1. 

iNewcantle-OD- 


May  8. 
York, 


Mny  8. 
York. 


May  11. 
York. 

May  14. 

Lincoln. 

Au<r.  30. 
Woodstock. 


Oct.  24. 

Westminster. 

July  23. 
Westminster. 


Mbmbranb  19. 

Grant,  at  the  supplication  of  the  king's  sister  Anne,  duchess  of  Exeter, 
to  Thomas,  archbishop  of  Canterbury,  George,  bishop  of  Exeter,  Richard, 
bishop  of  Salisbury,  John  Nevill  of  Montegu,  knight,  John  Audeley  of 
Audeley,  William  Hast^nges,  knight,  and  William  Stanley,  esquire,  the 
lordships  of  Hope  and  Hopesdale,  co.  Flint,  in  North  Wales,  Manorbery,  co. 
Pembroke,  in  South  Wales,  North wich  and  Overmersshe,  co.  Chester, 
Newton  and  Haydok,  co.  Lancaster,  and  Dalbere,  Dalberelees  and  Wyrkes- 
worth,  CO.  Derby,  the  lordships  and  manors  of  Thorpwaterfeld,  Achircbe, 
Alwynkell,  Chestone  and  Calcote,  co.  Northampton,  the  manors  of  Stevynton, 
CO.  Bedford,  Gagdesden,  co.  Herts,  Ardjmgton,  Lydford,  Blakedon,  Hasil- 
beare,  and  the  hundreds  of  Stone  and  Cattesasshe,  co.  Somerset,  the  manor 
of  Bereforth  Seint  Martyn,  co.  Wilts,  and  the  lordships  and  manors  of 
Dertyngton,FleteDamerell,Holberton,  Bovytracy,  Wynkeleghtracy,  Thorn- 
ton, Barnestaple,  Toryngtou,  Suthamylton,  Comemartyn,  Fremyngton, 
Holdesworthy  and  Langacre,  co.  Devon,  and  Coldeharburgh  and  Colde- 
harburgh  Lane,  London,  with  knight's  fees,  advowsons,  views  of  frank 
pledge,  etc.  to  hold  for  her  use  for  her  life.  By  K. 

Appointment,  during  good  behaviour,  of  Brian  Roudyff  as  third  baron  of 
the  Exchequer,  receiving  the  usual  fees  at  the  receipt  of  the  Exchequer  and 
from  the  citizens  of  York  for  the  farm  of  their  town  and  the  weavers  of 
York  for  their  guild,  and  also  his  official  vesture  with  lining  and  fur  at  the 
king's  great  wardrobe,  as  in  the  time  of  Edward  III.  By  K. 

Grant  for  life  to  William  Herbert,  knight,  of  the  offices  of  chief  justice 
and  chamberlain  of  South  Wales,  steward  of  the  commotes  in  the  counties 
of  Caermarthen  and  Cardigan,  and  chief  forester  in  those  counties,  with 
the  accustomed  fees.  By  K. 

Appointment,  during  pleasure,  of  Robert  Danby  as  chief  justice  of  the 
Bench,  receiving  the  accustomed  fees.  By  K. 

Grant  for  life  to  Richard  Harcourt,  esquire,  of  the  office  of  parker  of 
the  king's  park  of  Cornbury,  co.  Oxford,  with  the  accustomed  fees.     By  K. 

Grant  for  life  from  Michaelmas  last  to  Isabel,  late  the  wife  of  Robert 
Hoom,  esquire,  in  aid  of  the  sustenance  of  herself  and  her  three  daughters, 
of  40  marks  yearly  from  the  issues  of  the  manor  of  Middelton  with  the 
hundreds  of  Middelton  and  Merden,  co.  Kent.  By  p.s. 

General  pardon  to  John  Tup  of  Exeter,  co.  Devon,  *  corveser,'  of  all 
offences  committed  by  him  before  1  October.  By  K. 

Letters  of  naturalisation  for  William  Spencer,  native  of  Cologne,  Idonia 
his  wife  and  the  heirs  of  their  bodies.  By  K« 


Me^ibrane  18. 

March  12.        Commission  to  the  king's  kinsman  Richard,  earl  of  Warwick,  to  receive 

WestmiMter.  deserters  from  the  party  of  Henry  VI.  and  to  cause  proclamations  to  be 

made  to  that  effect,  and  to  seize  the  possessions  of  all  recusants. 

[^Foederd],  By  K.  by  word  of  month  (pretenui). 

March  10.        Grant  for  life  to  the  king's  kinsman   George,  bishop  of  Exeter,  of 
1  Wettminrter.  herbage  and  pannage  within  the  kirgs  park  of  Bekley,  co.  Oxford. 


g  CALENDAR  OP  PATENT  ROLLS. 


1461.  Membrane  18 — cont. 

March  12.        Appointment  of  Thomas  Hore  and  John  James  to  provide  carriage 
WestmlDtter.  certain  wheat  arrested  by  them  by  authority  of  letters  patent  of  the  late  k 
and  to  deliver  the  same  to  the  steward  cf  the  household. 

March  12.        Grant  to  the  king's  servitor  John  Pennant,  chaplain  of  the  chapel  of  1 
Westminster,  household,  of  the  king's  free  chapel  within  his  manor  of  Pensehurst, 
Kent.  By 

March  13.        Grant  for  life  to  the  king's  servant  Thomas  Mauncell  of  the   office 
Westminater.  receiver  of  the  lordships  of  Vises,  Marleburgh  and  Cosham  and  other   p* 
sessions  of  the  king  in  the  counties  of  WUts,  Southampton  and    Dors 
lately  held  by  Edward  Ellesmere,  with  the  accustomed  fees.  By 

March  13.        The  like  to  Gilbert  Debenham  the  younger  of  the  office  of  clerk  of  i 
Westminster,  market  of  the  household,  with  the  accustomed  fees.  By  p 

March  13.        The  like  to  John  Stokys,  esquire,  of  the  office  of  parker  or  the   cnsto 

Westminster,  of  the  park  of  Bekkeley,  co.  Oxford,  which  he  had  of  the  grant  of  the  kinj 

father  Richard,  duke  of  York,  with  the  accustomed  fees.  By  ' 

April  20.         The  like  to  the  king's  servant  Thomas  Ive,  of  the  office  of  one  of  t 
Durham.      clerks  of  the  crown  in  Chancery,  receiving  10/.  yearly  from  the  issues 
the  hanaper  and  a  livery  vesture  of  furred  cloth  as   other  clerks  of  t! 
crown  had  at  the  hands  of  the  keeper  of  the  great  wardrobe.  By  p 

May  2.  The  like  to  John  de  Audeley  of  the  offices  of  steward  of  the  king's  po 

Durham.       sessions  and  keeper  of  his  forests,  chases,  parks  and  warrens  in  the  couni 

of  Dorset,  and  of  the  custody  of  the  castle  and  park  of  Wardere,  co.  Wilt 

receiving  40/.  yearly  from  the  issues  of  the  lordship  or  manor  of  Cranbur 

Dorset.  By  p, 

May  1.  The  like  with  the  advice  of  the  council  to  John  Wenlok,  knight,  of  t] 

Newcastle  on-  office  of  chief  butler  of  England  which  he  already  holds,  in  the  same  mann< 

Tyne.        ^  Ralph  Boteler,  knight,  lord  of  Sudeley,  held  it.  By  p. 

April  17.  Grant  for  life  to  George  Darell,  esquire,  of  the  lieutenancy  of  the  fore 

Blythe.        of  Milkesham  and  Pevesham  and  the  power  of  appointing  a  ranger  and  oth< 

foresters,  with  fees  as  in  the  last  year  of  Edward  III.  and  the  first  < 

Richard  II.  By  p.i 

July  7.  The  like  to  the  king's  servant  Thomas  Tauke  of  the  office  of  bailiff  < 

Westminster.  Buriey  in  the  New  Forest,  co.  Southampton,  with  fees  as  above. 

Byp.i 

July  8.  General  pardon  to  John  Gierke  alias  Codeman,  late  of  Waymouth,  o 

Westminster.  Dorset,  *  marchaunt,'  of  all  offences  committed  by  him  before  4  July. 

Byp.j 

July  5.  Grant  for  life  to  Adam  Oudedale,  one  of  the  yeompn  of  the  crown,  of  th 

Westminster,  office  of  porter  of  Wyndesore  Castle,  with  fees  as  in  the  last  year  of  Edwari 

III.  and  the  first  of  Richard  II.  at  tlie  hands  of  the  constable  of  the  castle. 

By  p,g 

June  24.  The  like  to  Otewel  Worsley,  esquire,  of  the  offices  of  steward,  constabl 

Westminster,  and  receiver  of  the  castle  nnd  lordship  of  Chirke  and  Chyrkelond,  with  fee 

as  above  from  the  issues  of  the  same.  By  p.s 

July  10.  Appointment  for  life  of  Thomas  Herbert,  ctquire,  as  one  of  the  esquires 

Westminster,  of  the  body,   receiving  50   oiarks  yearly  from  2  April  last  from  the  fe< 

farm  of  the  town  of  Gloucester.  By  p.& 

July  8.  Grant  for  life  to  John  Actcn  of  the  office  of  rider  {equitatoris)  of  the  forest 

■  of  Kynvar,  co.  Stafford,  with  herbage  and  pannage  and  fees  as  in  the  last 

year  of  Edward  III.  and  the  first  of  Richard  II.  By  p.8. 


1  EDWARD  IV.— Part  L  9 


j4gj^  Mbmbranb  17. 

Mareh  11.       Presentation  of  Olirer  Dynham  to  the  parish  church  of  Chesthont,  in  the 
WestaiinBter.  diocese  of  London.  By  p.8. 

March  9.         Grant  for  life  to  William  Lee,  dtizea  and  ^jojnour' of  London,   of  the 

Westminster,  office  of  porter  in  the  Tower  of  London,  receiving  \2d,  wages  daily  from  the 

farm  and  issues  of  the  counties  of  London  and  Middlesex.  By  K, 

March  11.        The  like  to  John  Don,  esquire,  usher  of  the  chamher,  of  the  office  of 

Weetminster.  serjeant  of  the  armoury  in  the  Tower  of  London,  receiving  the  accustomed 

fees.  By  K. 

March  8.         Appointment  of  William  Bippley  and  William    Harpcote  to    provide 
Westminster,  victuals  and  habilimeiits  of  war  and  carriage  for  the  Eame  for  the  king's  use 
in  marching  against  the  rebels. 

June  17.         The  like  of  Thomas  Comyssh  and  William  Bird  to  provide  cooks  and 

Westminster,   labourers  in  the  offices  of  tiie  kitchen,  scullery  and  saucery  for  the  feast 

of  the  king's  coronation.  By  bill  of  treasurer  of  the  household. 

The  like  of  John   Leyton   to    provide    carriage  of    swans,   peacoGhs,. 
pheasants  and  other  things  for  the  office  of  the  poultry  for  the  coronation. 

The  like  of  John  Treber  to  provide — TJi^niihed. 

March  18.        Grant,  during  pleasure,  to  the  king's  kinsman  Henry,  viscount  Bourgh- 

Westminster.    chier,  of  the  office  of  treasurer  of  the  Exchequer  in  the  same  manner  a» 

Walter  Hungreford,  knight,  late  treasurer.  By  K. 

March  24.        Presentation    of  John   Lumley  to    the    parish    church    of   Hamsted 
Westminster.  Marchail,  in  the  diocese  of  Salisbury. 

May  8.  Mandate  to  the  escheator  in  the  county  of  Worcester  for  the  restitution 

York.        of  the  temporalities  of  the  abbey  of  Evesham  to  Bichard  Penbroke,  monk 

of  the  house,  elected  abbot  in  the  place  of  John  Wykewou,  deceased,  in 

accordance  with  the  licence  by  indult  of  the  apostolic  see.  By  p.s.. 

The  like  to  the  following  : — 

The  chancellor  in  the  county  palatine  of  Lancaster. 

The  escheators  in  the  counties  of  Gloucester,  Warwick,  Northampton^ 
Hereford  and  Stafford. 

Richard  Lee,  mayor  and  escheator  of  London. 
Writ  de  intendendo  in  pursuance  to  the  tenants. 

May  8.  Grant,  during  good  behaviour,  to  the  king's  servant  Geoffrey  Kidwelly^ 

York.        of  the  offices  of  receiver  of  the  honour  of  Walyngford  and  receiver  of 

Berkhnmstede  and  the  custody  of  the  king's  wood  of  Nettilbed  and  hi9> 

warren  or  park  of  Watlyngton,  with  the  accustomed  fees,  rendering  his- 

account  for  the  said  offices  to  the  auditors  of  the  duchy  of  Cornwall. 

By  p.8» 

May  8.  Grant  for  life  to  the  king's  servant  William  Hastynges,  knight,  of  the 

York.        office  of  receiver  general  of  the  duchy  of  Cornwall  with  portage  and  the 

accustomed  fees.  By  K, 

July  16.  Grant,  at  the  supplication  of  the  king's  sister  Anne,  duchesci  of  Exeter, 
Wcftminster.  to  Thomas,  archbishop  of  Canterbury,  George,  bishop  of  Exeter,  Bichard, 
bishop  of  Salisbury,  John  Nevyll  of  Mountagu,  knight,  John  Audeley  of 
Audeley,  William  Hastynges  of  Hastynges,  knight,  and  William  Stanley, 
kniglit,  of  the  town  of  Norwich,  co.  Chester,  the  land  and  lordship  of  Hope 
and  Hopedale  m  Wales,  a  yearly  rent  of  7/.  6#.  8<f.  from  the  issues  of  the 
lands  of  Overmerssh,  co.  Chester,  the  lordships  and  manors  of  Neweton  and 
Heydok,  co  Lancaster,  and  Dalbere,  Dalbereleys  and  Wrixworth,  co.  Derby, 
the  castle,  lordships  and  manors  of  Thorpwatervyle,  Achyrche,  Aldewynche, 
Ghelveston  and  Caldeoote,  co.  Northampton,  the  manors  of  Bidlyngton,  oo. 
Rutland,  Stevyngton,  co.  Bedford,  Ardyngton,  co.  Berks,  ana  Great 
Gaddesden,  co.  Herts,  the  lordships  and  macors  of  Mayiierbeare  and 
Pennaly,  co.  Pembroke,  the  manors  of  Ludford,  co.  Somesset,  and  Bovy 


10  CALENDAR  OF  PATENT  BOLLS. 


1461.  Membrane  17— con/. 

Tracj,  Northlyen,  Holdesworthj,  Langacrey  Barnestaple,  OomanAr^, 
Fremjngtony  South  Molton,  Dartjngton  and  Blakeboroebotjy  the  hundreds  of 
Fremjngtoa  and  South  Molton  and  the  manors  of  Toryngton,  co.  Devon, 
the  manore  of  Hasilbeare  and  Blakedon  and  the  hundreds  of  Stone  ai^d 
Cattessasshe,  co.  Somerset,  the  manors  of  Takhere,  co.  Comwally  and  Flete 
Damarle,  Holberton,  Thometon  and  Wyncley  Tracy,  co.  Devon,  and  the 
lodging  called  *  Coidherburgh '  and  Coldherburgh  Lane  in  London,  with 
knights'  fees,  advowsons,  views  of  frank  pledge,  etc.,  to  hold  for  her  use  for 
her  life.  ByK. 


Membrane  16. 

March  11.        Grant  to  John  Fray,  knight,  of  200/.  from  the  first  issues  of  the  fee  farm 

Westminster,   of  the  counties  of  London  and  Middlesex,  in  repayment  of  100/.  lent  by 

him  to  the  king  and  100/.  lent  to  the  king's  brother  £dmund,  earl  of 

Butland,  deceased.  By  E. 

March  10.        Grant  to  the  prior  and  convent  of  Holy  Trinity,  London,  of  800  marks 

Westnunster.   from  the  first  issues  of  the  customs  of  wools,  hides  and  woolf  ells  in  the  port 

of  London  and  200  marks  from  the  iirst  issues  of  the  petty  custom  there,  in 

repayment  of  500  marks  lent  by  them  to  the  king.  By  K. 

April  11.        Appointment,  during  pleasure,  of  William  Weldon  and  Peter  Bowman  as 

Westminster,  auditors  of  the  accounts  of  the  king's  chamberlain  and  other  ministers  in 

South  Wales,  in  the  same  manner  as  Richard  Bedford  and  John  Brown, 

late  auditors.  By  bill  of  treasurer. 

July  6.  Grant  for  life  to  Thomas  WoUore,  monk,  of  the  priory  of  Holy  Trinity, 

Westminster.   Lenton,  and  appointment  of  him  as  prior.  By  K. 

July  13.  Grant  for  life  to  John  Asteley,  knight,  of  40/.  yearly  from  Michaelmas 

Westminster,  last  from  the  farm  or  issues  of  the  city  of  Winchester.  By  p.s. 

April  14.        The  like  to  the  king's  servitor  Bichard  Apryce  of  the  office  of  porter  of 

York.        the  Tower  of  London,  with  fees  as  in  the  last  year  of  Edward  HI.  and  the 

first  of  Richard  II.  By  p.s. 

July  20.  Grant,  during  good  behaviour,  to  Thomas  Bye,  citizen  and  '  glasyer '  of 
Westminster.  London,  of  the  office  of  the  glaziery  of  the  king's  works,  with  8c/.  wages 
daily  from  the  issues  of  the  counties  of  Surrey  and  Sussex,  a  *  shade '  called 
'  Glasiers  Logge '  on  the  west  within  the  palace  of  Westminster,  60  feet 
long  by  20  broad,  and  a  coat  of  the  king's  livery  yearly  at  Christmas  at  the 
hands  of  the  keeper  of  the  king's  great  wardrobe.  By  p.s . 

July  18.  Grant  for  life  to  the  king's  servant  John  Mody  of  the  office  of  one  of  the 

Westminster,   four  messengers  of  the  Exchequer,  receiving  A\d,  wages  daily  at  the  I'eceipt 

of  the  Exchequer  and  a  robe  of  livery  as  a  yeoman  of  the  chamber  yearly 

at  Christmas  at  the  great  wardrobe.  By  p.s. 

July  21.         The  like  to  John  Howard,  king's  knight,  of  the  office  of  the  constableship 

Westminster,  and  custody  of  Norwich  castle  from  Easter  last,  with  fees  as  in  the   times 

of  Edward  III.  and  Richard  II.  from  the  issues  of  the  counties  of  Norfolk 

and  Suffolk.  By  K. 

July  16.  The  like  to  the  king's  servant  Walter  Bright  of  the  office  of  one  of   the 

Westminster,  king's  Serjeants  at  arms,  with  wages  of  V2d.  daily  from  the  issues  of  the 

counties  of  London  and  Middlesex,  dating  from  4  March  last,  and  a  livery 

of  the  suit  of  the  esquires  of  the  household  yearly  at  Christmas  at  the  great 

wardrobe.  By  K.  by  word  of  mouth. 


1  EDWARD  IV.— Pakt  I.  11 


1461.  Meubranb  16. 

Mi^  28.  CommisBion  to  John  Ljlboame  to  collect  all  moneys  from  rents  etc  in 

WwtaansUr.  the  king's  manors  of  Marleburgh,  Cosham  and  Devise,  co.  Wilts,  Gyllyng- 
ham,  CO.  Dorset,  and  Odjham,  co.  Southampton,  and  their  appurtenances 
up  to  1  March  last,  and  bring  the  same  to  the  receipt  of  the  Exchequer. 

By  bill  of  treasurer. 

June  7.  Appointment  of  William  Baibrook  as  deputy  of  John  Wenlok,  knight, 

WMtmiiuter.  king's  chief  hatler  of  England,  in  the  port  of  London  and  the  adjacent 

ports^  with  the  accustomed  fees.  By  bill  of  the  chief  butler. 

June  10.        General  pardon  to  John  Mamey,  knight,  and  Joan  his  wife  of  all  offences 
Westmiikflter.  committed  by  them  before  1  May  last. 

April  17.        Grant  for  life  to  John  Scot,  esquire,  of  the  office  of  tronage  and  pesage  in 
York.        the  port  of  London,  with  the  accustomed  fees.  By  K. 

April  14.        The  like  to  the  king's  servant  John  Fogge,  esquire,  of  the  county  of 

York.        Kent,  of  the  office  of  keeper  of  the  writs  and  rolls  of  the  Common  Bench, 

with  the  accustomed  fees.  By  p.s. 

Vacated  by  surrender  and  cancelledy  because  on  1 1  «/tt/y,  12  Edward 

IV.y  the  king  granted  the  same  to  him  and  John  his  son. 

March  6.        The  like  to  the  king's  servant  Thomas  Clemens  of  the  office  of  parker  ot 

Westminster,   the  king's  park  of  Leskert,  parcel  of  the  duchy  of  Cornwall,  receiving  the 

accustomed  fees  at  the  hands  of  the  receiver  general  of  the  duchy.      By  K. 

June  14.        Greneral  pardon  to  Dominic  Desereius,  physician,  alias  Dominic  Deserus, 
Ifettiniiister.  Lombard.  By  p.s. 

June  19.  Appointment  of  Thomas  Stratton,  esquire,  clerk  of  the  works  at  the 
Westminster,  palace  of  Westminster,  the  Tower  of  London,  tlie  manors  of  Eltham, 
Claryndon,  Shene,  Chilteme  Langley,  Odyham,  the  lodges  within  his  parks 
of  Claryngdon,  Eltham,  Chiltcrne  Langley  and  Odyham,  the  mews  for 
falcons  by  Claringcroucbe,  and  other  castles  and  possessions  of  the  king 
in  England,  with  power  to  take  labourers,  instruments  and  materials, 
in  the  same  manner  as  John  Ai*dem  or  John  Straunge  or  any  other  holder 
of  the  office.  By  K. 

May  20.        Grant  for  life  to  Barnabas  Bemewall  of  the  office  of  second  justice  of 

Westminster,   the  King's  Bench  in  Ireland,  with  fees  of  40  marks  yearly  and  wages  of 

20cf.  daily  from  the  king's  manor  of  Cromlyn  in  Ireland  and  the  customs 

and  coquets  of  wools,  hides,  wool^fells  and  1^  and  other  merchandise  in  the 

ports  of  Dublin  and  Drogheda.  By  p.s. 

June  22.        Confirmation  for  life  to  Master  William  Say,  king's  clerk,  doctor  of 

Westminster,  theology,  dean  of  the  king's  chapel,  of  his  custody  of  the  house  or  hospital 

of  St.  Antony  in  the  city  of  London.  By  K. 

June  30.        Grant  for  life  to  John  'V^''ybam  of  the  custody  of  the  king's  lordship, 

Westminster,    foreet  and  chase  of  Suthfryte,  co.  Kent,  with  fees  as  in  the  last  year  of 

Edward  III.  and  the  ilrst  of  Richard  II.  By  p.s. 

July  3.  Ratification  of  the  estate  which  Hugh  Cardemaker,  king's  chaplain,  has 

Westminster,  as  prior  of  the  hospital  of  St.  John  Baptist,  Bnigenorthe.  By  p.e, 

Membrane  14. 

June  2.  Licence  for  the  sub-prior  and  canons  of  Newstead  in  Sliirwodc  to  elect  a 

Westminster,   prior  in  the  place  of  William  Mysterton,  resigned. 

Jane  15.         Grant  to  Edmund  Brownyng,  chaplain,  of  the  eleventh  prebend  in  the 
Westminster,  king's  college  of  Newerk,  Leycestre,  lately  held  by  Master  Robert  Matfen. 

By  p.s. 
Mandate  in  pursuance  to  J.  bishop  of  Lincoln. 

June  17.         Signification  to  W.  archbishop  of  York,  legate  of  the  apostolic  see,  of 
Westminster,   the  royal  assent  to  the  election  of  John  Durham,  canon  of  Newstead  within 
Shirwode  forest,  as  prior  of  that  house. 


12  CALENDAR  OP  PATENT  ROLLS. 


3^461.  Membrane  14 — cont. 

April  14.        Grant  for  life  to  the  king's  servant  John  Fogge,  esquire,  in  the  count 

York.        Kent,  of  the  custody  of  the  king's  castle  of  Rouchestiv,  co.  Kent,  witl 

rents  and  appurtenances.  B  j 

Vacated  by  eurrender   and  cancelled^  because  on   29  November^ 

Edward  /F.,  the  king  granted  the  savie  to  Thomas  Sayntleger^  esquin 

the  body, 

Jane  20.        Appointment,  until  20  December,  of  Richard  Hatfeld,  esquire,  serje 
Westmioster.   avener  of  the  household,  to  provide  haj,  oats,  beans,  pea  j,  straw,  litter  i 
other  necessaries  for  his  oflSce. 

June  25.        Grant  to  William  Mulso,  esquire,  and  John  Clerk  and  John  Ebmc 
Westmioster.    <  jomen,'  of  pontage  for  six  years  for  the  repair  of  the  bridge  across 
Thames  at  Stanys  and  the  causeway  from  thence  to  Egham,  rendering  tl 
account  yearly  before  the  chancellor. 

June  25.         General  pardon  to  Peter  Dido  alias  Dedo,  merchant  of  Venice. 
iWestmiiuter. 

June  22.         Grant  to  Laurence,  bishop  of  Durham,  of  the  custody,  during  minority, 

Westminster.  Henry  Ogard,  son  and  heir  of  Andrew  Ogard,  knight,  and  his  possessio 

with  his  marriage,  rendering  a  sum  to  be  agreed  upon  before  Christi 

with  the  treasurer.  By  ] 

June  2u.  General  pardon  to  Henry  Stafford,  knight,  son  of  the  king*s  kinsn 

Westminster.  Humphrey,  late  duke  of  Buckingham,  of  all  offences  committed  by  h 

before  19  June  last.  By  ] 

The  like  to  John  Stafford,  esquire,  son  of  the  said  duke.  By  i 

•  July  4.  Presentation  of  Henr^  Stevenesson,  vicar  of  Therston,  in  the  diocese 

Westminster.  Norwich,  to  a  moiety  of  the  church  of  Gatfeld,  in  the  same  diocese,  on 
exchange  of  benefices  with  Thomas  Chapeleyn. 

July  1.  Appointment,  during  good  behaviour,  of  Robert  Hanbury  as  auditor 

Westminster,  all  lands  in  England  late  of  James,  earl  of  Wilts,  receiving  such  wages 

he  had  in  the  lifetime  of  the  earl.  By  bill  of  the  treasur 

March  26.        Appointment,  during  pleasure,  of  Brian  Talbot  as  controller  of  the  gn 

Westminster,  and  petty  custom,  the  subsidy  of  wools,  hides  and  wool-foUs,  and  the  subsi 

of  the  Ss.  in  the  tun  and  the  12^.  in  the  pound  in  the  port  of  Boston  a 

adjacent  ports,  receiving  the  accustomed  fees,  provided  that  he  execute  t 

office  in  person,  with  the  custody  of  one  part  of  the  coket  seaL 

By  bill  of  the  treasur 

The  like  of  the  following  in  the  ports  named  and  adjacent  ports: — 
May  27.  Thomas  Weltden  in  Newcastle-on-Tyne. 

Westminster.  By  bill  of  the  treasur 

'  March  7.  Thomas  Blount  in  Kyngeston-on-Hull. 

Westminster.  By  bill  of  the  treasun 

April  9.  Thomas  Gille  the  younger  in  Exeter  and  Dertemouth. 

Westminster.  By  bill  of  the  treasur 

March  26.  Thomas  Sharp  in  Southampton. 

Westminster. 

April  8.  Adam  Odam  in  Lynne. 

Westminster. 

April  9.  John  Bernewell  in  Sandwich. 

Westminster. 

April  25.  Richard  Alberton  in  Bristol. 

Westminster. 

July  26.  Leonard  Thomburgh  in  Boston. 

Westmmster. 

July  80.  Vincent  Pitelesden  in  Southampton. 

Westminster. 


1  EDWAED  IV.- Part  I. 


13 


1462. 

Jan.  18. 
Westminster. 


Membrane  14 — conL 
Bichard  Kjrkeby  in  Ipswich. 


1461. 

April  12.         Appointment  as  above  of  William  Baron  as  controller  of  the  great 

'WestmiDBter.    custom  and  the  subsidy  of  wools,  hides  and  wool-fells  in  the  port  of  London 

and  adjacent  ports.  By  bill  of  treasurer. 


Membrane  13. 

Grant  for  life  to  the  king's  servitor  John  Fogge  of  the  county  of  Kent, 
esquire,  of  the  office  of  weigher  of  wools  and  other  merchandise  at  the  port 
of  St.  Botolph,  commonly  called  Boston,  receiving  the  accustomed  fees. 

By  p.s, 

QtbhX  to  Thomas  Fraunceys,  chaplain,  of  a  prebend  within  the  king's 
Westminster.  coUege  of  St.  Mary,  Leycestre,  which  John  Everdon,  deceased,  lately  bad. 

Mandate  in  pursuance  to  the  dean  snd  chapter. 

May  9.  Gleneral  pardon  to  John  Aune  of  Northaston,  co.  Oxford,  esquire. 

York. 


May  11. 
York. 


May  25. 


Mbj  11. 
York. 


May  10. 
York. 


May  13. 
Lincoln. 

May  13. 
Lincoln. 

May  20. 

Norwich. 


June  16. 

Westminster. 

June  17. 
Westminster. 


Grant  for  life  to  the  king's  servants  William  Hastynges,  knight,  and 
Balph  Hastynges,  esquire,  of  the  office  of  constable  of  the  king's  castle  of 
Rokyngham,  co.  Northampton,  and  the  supervision  of  vert  and  venison  in 
the  forest  there,  the  offices  of  steward  of  the  king's  lordships  and  manors  of 
Bokyngham,  Brlgstoke  and  Clyff  and  others  within  the  said  forest,  master 
forester  and  keeper  of  the  forest,  parker  of  the  king's  park  of  Brlgstoke,  co. 
Northampton,  with  the  supervision  of  herbage  and  pannage  of  the  park  and 
the  foreign  woods  in  the  county  called  '  Brigstokebaylly,'  and  constable  of 
the  king's  castle  of  Northampton,  and  the  custody  of  his  park  of  Multon  and 
rabbit  warren  called  *  Norhampton  Wareyn  *  in  the  same  county,  receiving 
the  accustomed  fees  from  the  issues  of  the  county  and  the  manor  or  lordship 
of  Bokyngham.  By  K. 

Vacated  by  surrender  by  William  Casteltonyattamey  of  the  saidSalphy 
on  1  Marehy  1  Richard  IlL^  in  Chancers/,  and  cancelled. 

Grant  to  William  Harbart,  knight,  during  the  minority  of  Henry  son  of 
Humphrey,  late  earl  of  Stafford,  son  and  heir  of  Humphrey,  late  duke  of 
Buckingham,  and  so  from  heir  to  heir  during  minority,  of  the  custody  of 
the  casde,  town  and  lordships  of  Newport,  Coboy,  Wenlloit  and  Meredeth 
in  South  Wales,  rendering  100/.  yearly  to  the  king.  By  p.s. 

Grant  for  life  to  William  Bourgchier  of  Fitzwaren,  knight,  of  the  offices  of 
master  forester  of  the  forests  of  Exmore,  co."  Devon,  and  Racche,  co. 
Somerset,  receiving  the  usual  fees  in  the  same  manner  as  Thomas 
Courtenay,  late  earl  of  Devon.  By  K. 

Appointment,  during  pleasure,  of  Bichard  Harecourt,  esquire,  as  sheriff  of 
Oxford  and  Berks.  By  K. 

The  like  of  Edmund  Bede,  esquire,  as  sheriff  of  Bedford  and  Buckingham. 

ByK. 

Appointment,  during  pleasure,  of  William  Baldry,  Bichard  Felowe, 
Thomas  Tong  and  John  Cobbe  to  provide  wheat,  malt,  oxen,  muttons, 
fish,  salt,  and  other  things  for  the  victualling  of  the  king's  ships,  and  carriage 
for  the  same.  By  K. 

Presentation  of  William  Langham  to  the  parish  church  of  North  Lufen- 
ham,  CO.  Rutland,  in  the  diocese  of  Lincoln,  void  by  the  death  of  Robert 
Matfen,  late  rector.  By  K. 

Appointment  of  John  Punchon  to  provide  carpenters  and  labourers  for 
the  repair  of  divers  offices  at  Westminster  for  the  king's  coronation,  and 
timber  for  three- legged  tables  and  other  necessaries. 

By  bill  of  treasurer  of  the  household. 


14  CALENDAR  OF  PATENT  ROLLS. 


1461.  Memhrane  13 — ami. 

April  11.         Appointment,  until  12  October,  of  Thomas  Edmonde  to  provide  ndt  fiBh, 
Westminster,  btock  fish,  herrings  and  other  victuals  and  salt  {sal  groaum  et  sal  aUmmy 
for  the  furnishing  (stuffura)  of  the  king's  household. 

Jul  J  5.  Appointment  of  John  Stokea  and  John  Aldey  to  provide  all  kinds  of 

WeitBiinBter.  victuals  for  an  expedition  bj  sea  against  the  king's  enemies. 

The  like  of  the  following  : — 
Henry  Au^er. 
Edmund  Yns  and  Thomas  Meliour. 


MSMBRANB   12. 

July  4.  Appointment  of  Robert  Stowell,  yeoman  in   the  office  of  the  king'?- 

Westminster,  butler,  to  provide  wiues  in  divers  places  within  the  realm  for  the 
household,  because  John  Wenlok,  knight,  chief  butler,  is  fully  occupied. 

By  bill  of  the  chi^  butler* 

The  like  of  the  following  :— 
Stephen  Neuton. 

July  4.  Inspeximtu    and    confirmation  of    letters  patent  of  the  king's  father 

Westminster.  Richard,  late  duke  of  York,  true  heir  to  the  kingdom,  dated  at  London, 
4  November,  tS9  Henry  VI.,  being  a  grant  for  life  to  his  servant  John 
Serlo  of  the  office  of  parker  of  his  park  of  Berdefeld,  co.  Essex,  for- 
merly granted  for  life  to  his  servapt  John  Flegge,  esquire,  by  letters 
patent,  surrendered,  receiving  the  usual  fees  from  his  manor  of  Berdefeld. 

By  p.s.  and  for  6«.  8J.  paid  in  the  hanaper. 

May  13.  Grant  to  John  Markham,  chief  justice  of  the  King's  Bench,  for  the 
Westminster,  better  maintenance  of  his  estate,  of  180  marks  yearly  at  the  hands  of  the 
keeper  of  the  hanaper  and  the  customs  ofiicers  in  the  ports  of  London,. 
Bristol  and  Kyngeston-on-HuU,  in  accordance  with  an  Act  of  Parliament 
at  Westminster,  18  Henry  YI.,  and  also  lOGf.  11^^.  and  the  sixth  part  of 
\d,  yearly  at  Christmas  for  a  furred  robe  and  66^.  6</.  yearly  at  Whitsuntide 
for  a  lined  robe. 

April  8.  Orant  to  William  Yelverton,  one  of  the  justices  of  the  King's  Bench,  of 

Westminster.   ]  10  marks  yearly  and  the  same  sums  for  his  robes  as  above. 

The  like  to  the  following : — 
Nicholas  Ayssheton. 
Robert  Danvers. 
John  Nedeham. 
Richard  Byngham. 
Walter  Moyle. 

June  18.  Grant,  during  good  behaviour,  to  the  king's  servitor  Philip  Herveys  of 

Westminster,  the  office  of  master  of  the  king's  ordnance,  with  fees  as  in  the  last  vear  of 

Edward  IIL  and  the  first  of  Richard  II.  by  p.s. 

July  9.  Grant  for  life  to  R;dph   Hastynges;  esquire,  of  the  office  of  the  custody 

Westminster,  of  the  king's  lions  within  the  Tower  of  London,  with  fees  as  above. 

By  p.s. 

May  20.         llie  like  to  the  king's  servant  William  Kaynell  of  the  custody  of  the 
Westminster,  parks  of  Cossam,  co.  Wilts,  with  fees  as  above.  By  p.s. 

May  11.  The  like  to  Edward  Gower  of  the  office  of  clerk  of  the  works  within 

Westminster,  the  king's  manor  and  park  of  Claryngdon,  co.  Wilts,  with  fees  as  above. 

ByK. 

May  13.         The  like,  from  Michaelmas  last,  to  the  king's  servant  William  Sayer  of 

York.        the  office  of  parker  of  the  king's  park  of  Rostormell,  co.  Cornwall,  with 

herbage  and  pannage,  receiving  the  accustomed  fees  at  the  hands  of  the 

receiver-general  of  the  duchy.  By  p.s. 


1  EDWARD  IV— Part  L  15 


1461.  Membrane  12 — cant, 

Joly  1.  The  like  to  the  king's  kinsman  William,  earl  of  Amndel,  of  the  custody 

Westminster,  of  the  king's  forest  and  park  of  Claryngdon  alias  Pannoett  and  his  forests 

of  Groyelejy  Milchet  and  Bakholt,  with  branches  &c,  for  the  enclosure 

thereof,  hays,   coppices,    wiudfalls,  dead     wood    and   'hrowsyng,'  with 

fees  as  in  the  last  year  of  Edward  III.  and  the  first  of  Bichard  II. 

By  p^s. 

April  12.        The  like  to  the  king's  servitor  John  Wode  of  the  office  of  keeper 

Westminater.  of  the  swans  on  the  Thames  between  Graveshende  and  Cicestre,  with  fees  as 

above.  By  p.s  • 

Membrane  11. 

Jane  23.         The  like  to  the  king's  servant  Thomas  Herbert  the  elder  of  the  office  of 

Westminster,  constable  of  the  king's  castle  of  Gloucester  with  a  meadow  near  it  called 

*'  Kyngesmedewe,'  with  the  accustomed  fees.  By  p.s. 

July  5.  Licence  for  the  king's  kinswoman  Alesia,  countess  of  Salisbury,  to  enter 

Westminster,  into  all  the  castles,  lordships,  manors  and  other  possessions  of  Thomas 

Mountague,  late  earl  of  Salisbury,  her  father,  whose  heir  she  is,  and  aU  the 

possessions  which  she  held  for  life  with  Richard,  late  earl  of  Salisbury, 

her  husband,  and  to  hold  the  same  in  fee  simple.  By  K. 

July  6.  Grant  for  life  to  Thomas  Gybbys  of  the  office  of  the  king's  torchmaker 

Westminster,   (branderatoris)  and  link  armourer  (lenei  armurarii)^  with  fees  as  in  the  last 

year  of  Edward  III.  and  the  first  of  Bichard  II.  By  K. 

July  1.  Grant,  during  good  behaviour,  to  Thomas  Crozton   of  the  offices  of 

Westminster,   coroner  and  attorney  of  the  king  in  the  King's  Bench,  receiving  the  usual 

fees  at  the  Exchequer.  By  p.e* 

July  4.  Grant  for  life  to  the  king's  servant  William  Pault  of  the  office  of  serjeant 

Westminster,  tailor  in  the  great  wardrobe,  with  fees  as  in  the  last  year  of  Eklward  III. 
and  the  first  of  Bichard  II.  and  a  livery  at  the  hands  of  the  keeper  of 
the  wardrobe.  By  p.s» 

July  8.  Grant,  during  pleasure,  to  the  king's  servant  John  Stratford  of  the  office 

Westminster,  of  the  king's  painter,  with  fees  and  livery  as  above.  By  p.s. 

July  4.  Inspeximus  and  confirmation  of  letters  patent  (in  French)  of  the  king's 

Westminster,  father,  Bichard,  duke  of  York,  dated  at  Usk  Castle,  26  March,  12  Henry  '^., 
being  a  grant  for  life  to  his  servitor  Thomas  Stotfold,  yeoman  of  hia 
chamber,  of  the  offices  of  parker  of  his  little  park  of  Bradefeld,  co.  Essex^ 
and  keeper  of  his  warren  there,  receiving  the  usual  fees  from  the  issues  of 
the  lordship  of  Bardefeld.  By  p.s.  and  for  6$.  8d.  paid  in  the  hanaper. 

June  12.  Grant  for  life  to  the  king's  servant  John  Scot,  esquire,  of  the  50  marka 

Westminster,  yearly  which  the  abbot,  prior  and  convent  of  St.  Augustine's,  Canterbury,  are 

bound  to  pay  to  the  king  in  consideration  of  the  release  to  them  by 

Bichard  II.  of  greater  sums  during  the  voidances  of  the  abbey.  By  p.s. 

June  5.  Ghrant  for  life  to  Thomas,  archbishop  of  Canterbury,  of  the  custody  of 

Westminster,   the  lordship,  manor  and  park  of  Langle  by  Maydeston,  co.  Kent,  rendering 

5  marks  yearly.  By  K. 

July  8.  Grant,  during  good  behaviour,  to  Master  Henry  Sharpp,  doctor  of  laws,. 

Westminster,   of  the  office  of  notary  or  prothonotary  of  Chancery,  with  fees  as  in  the  last 

,  Year  of  Edward  III.  and  the  first  of  Bichard  II.  from  the  issues  of  the 

hanaper.  By  p.t» 

Vacated  because  otherwise  below. 

July  7.  Grant  for  life  to  William  Colyngboume  of  the  custody  of  the  king's  park 

Westminster,  of  Ludgursale,  co.  Wilts,  with  fees  as  in  the  last  year  of  Edward  III.  and 

the  first  of  Bichard  II.  By  p.8. 


16  CALENDAR  OF  PATENT  ROLLS. 


1461.  Membrane  11— con/. 

Julj  9.  The  like  to  Richard  W7II7,  yeoman  of  the  king's  bed,  of  the  office  of 

Weitminster.  keeper  of  the  palace  called  *  Princeispalice '  within  Westminster,  with  fees 

as  above  at  the  hands  of  the  receiver  of  the  dnchj  of  ComwaU.        Bj  p.8. 

July  9.  The  like  to  the  same  of  the  custody  of  the  king's  private  palace  of 

Westminster.   Westminster  from  the  first  day  of  the  reign,  with  fees  as  above  from  the 

farm  of  the  city  of  Winchester.  Bj  p.s. 

July  30.  The  like  to  Robert  Prere  of  a  yearly  pension  of  lOOs.  in  the  church  of 

Westminster.  West  Kyngton,  co.  Wilts,  at  the  hands  of  the  rector  or  the  sheriff,  in  the 

same  manner  as  Richard  Blythe,  deceased.  By  E. 


Mbmbranb  10. 

April  11.         The  like  to  John  Clyffbrd  of  the  office  of  keeper  of  the  wood  called 

York.         <  Chesteynwode,'  co.  Kent,  with  fees  as  in  the  last  year  of  Edward  III.  and 

the  first  of  Richard  II.  By  p.s. 

July  9.  The  like  to  Nicholas  Wydnare  of  the  office  of  making  the  king's  bows 

Westminster,   within  the  Tower  of  London,  with  wages  as  above  from  the  issues  of  the 

counties  of  Surrey  and  Sussex.  By  p.s. 

The  like  to  Alvcred  Comeburgh,  one  of  the  yeomen  of  the  crown,  of  6J.  a 
day  from  the  issues  of  the  counties  of  London  and  Middlesex,  in  the  same 
manner  as  Nicholas  Walton,  late  one  of  the  yeomen  of  the  crown.     By  p.s. 

July  5.  The  like  to  Adam  Gudedale,  one  of  the  yeomen  of  the  crown«  of  the 

Westminster,   office  and  custody  of  the  king's  great  garden  at  Windsor,  with  fees  as  in  the 

last  year  of  Edward  III.  and  the  first  of  Richard  II.  at  the  hands  of  the 

constable  of  Windsor  Castle.  By  p.s. 

April  12.         The  like  to  Alvred  Cornebnrgh,  yeoman  of  the  crown,  of  the  office  of 

Westminster,   water-bailiff  of  Plymmouth,  Sutton  Priour,  Sutton  Raff,  Sutton  Wautert 

and  Estonhous,  co.  Devon,  pertaining  to  the  duchy  of  Cornwall,  with  fees 

as  above  at  the  hands  of  the  receiver  general  of  the  duchy.  By  p.s. 

June  20.         The  like   to  Thomas  Warner  of  two  acres  of  land  in   Surrey  called 
Westminster.   <  Weybrygge  Hawe,'  at  a  rent  of  Ss,  4d,  per  acre.  By  p.s. 

June  24.         The  like  to  the  king's  servant  Otewel  Worsley,  esquire,  of  20/.  yearly 

"Westminster,   from  the  last  moneys  of  the  issues  of  the  king's  castle  and  lordship  of  Chyrke 

and  Chyrkelondes.  By  p.s. 

May  20.  The  like  to  Thomas  Ponsebury  of  the  office  of  forester  of  Lethewode,  co. 

Westminster.   Salop,  with  fees  as  in  the  last  year  of  Edward  III.  and  the  first  of  Richard  II. 

By  p.s. 

June  26.         The  like  to  Edward  Worsley  of  the  office  of  master  porter  of  the  king's 
Westminster,   castle  of  Carlill,  with  fees  as  above.  By  p.s. 

June  29.  The  like  to  Thomas  Grayson  of  the  office  of  keeper  of  the  king's  park  of 

Westminster.   Keyrbullok  in  the  duchy  of  Cornwall,  with  fees  as  above.  By  p.s. 

April  18.         The  like  to  William  Sturmy  of  the  custody  of  the  king's  park  of  Hamx^- 
Westminster.   stede  Marchall,  with  fees  as  above.  By  x>-s. 

May  6.  The  like  to  William  Clerk  of  Wenlok  of  the  office  of  the  constableship  oi 

Mddleham.    the  king's  castle  of  Bruggenorth,  co.  Salop,  with  fees  as  above  from  tb< 

farm  of  the  town  of  Brugges.  By  p.s 

July  9.  Grant,  during  good  behaviour,  to  James  Hatweell  of  the  office  of  purvejo 

Westminster,  of  the  king's  manors  of  Grenewych  and  Elthara,  with  fees  as  in  tlie  ye&ri 

named  above.  T3y  p-^ 


1  EDWARD  IV.— Part  I.  1? 


1461.  Membrane  10— cant 

June  22.         Grant  for  life  to  Thomae  Osbeme,  from  4  March  last,  of  the  office  of 

Westminster,  one  of  the  king's  serjeants-at-arms  with  I2d.  wages  daily  from  the  farm 

and  issues  of  the  counties  of  London  and  Middlesex,  a  coat  of  the  king's 

livery  yearly  at  Christmas  at  the  great  wardrobe,  and  other  fees  appertaining 

to  the  office.  By  p.B. 

April  17.        Grant,  during  pleasure,  to  George  Darell,  esquire,  of  the  custody  of  the 
Blythe.       king's  great  wardrobe,  with  the  accustomed  tees.  By  p.8. 

July  8.  Grant  for  life  to  the  king's  servant  Tialph  Cliderowe  of  Calais  of  the  office 

Westminster,  of  ranger  of  the  king's  forest  of  Whichewode,  co.  Oxford,  with  wages  of  4c?, 
daily  at  the  hands  of  the  sheriff.  By  p.p. 

Vacated  because  otherwise  below. 

July  1.  Grant,  during  good  behaviour,  to  Richard  Grey,  lord  of  Powesse,  of  the 

Westminster,  office  of  steward  of  Kiry,  with  fees  as  in  the  last  year  of  Edward  111.  and 

the  first  of  Bichard  II.  By  p.s. 

The  like  to  the  some  of  the  office  of  steward  of  Eedewyn,  with  fees  as 
above.  By  p.s. 

The  like  to  the  same  of  the  office  of  steward  of  Mongymry,  with  fees  as 
above.  By  p.s. 

July  10.  Ratification  for  life  of  the  estate  of  M^uster  Robert  Stillyngton,  king's 
Westminster,  clerk,  as  dean  of  the  king's  free  chapel  of  St.  Martin  le  Grand,  London, 
archdeacon  of  Colchester  in  the  cathedral  of  London  and  of  Tauntone  in  the 
cathedral  of*  Wells,  prebendary  of  Wetewang  in  the  cathedral  of  York, 
Marther  in  the  cathedral  of  St.  Davids  and  the  prebend  which  John  Lucas 
lately  had  in  the  king's  free  chapel  of  St.  Stephen  within  his  palace  of 
Westminster,  and  parson  of  the  church  of  Aysshebury,  in  the  diocese  of 
Salisbury.  By  p.s, 

July  12.         Presentation  of  John  Pieseley  to  the  parish  church  of  Spryngthorp,  in 
Westminster,  the  diocese  of  Lincoln. 

July  16.  Grant  for  life  to  the  king's  servant  Edward  Skelton,  from  4  March  last, 

Westminster,  of  the  office  of  one  of  the  king's  Serjeants  at  arms,  with  \2d,  wages  daily 
from  the  farm  of  the  counties  of  Norfolk  and  Suffolk  and  a  livery  of  the 
suit  of  esquires  of  the  household  yearly  at  Christmas  at  the  great  wardrobe. 

By  K.  by  word  of  mouth. 

Mbmbrans  9. 

May  1.  The  like  to  John  Pesemersshe  the  elder  of  the  office  of  porter  of  the 

Westminster,  king's  castle  called  <  New  Castle ^n  Tyne,'  with  fees  as  in  the  last  year  of 

Edward  III.  and  the  first  of  Richard  II.  from  the  issues  of  the  county  of 

Northumberland,  for  the  office  and  for  the  relief  and  sustenance  of  prisoners 

in  the  castle.  By  p.s. 

July  9.  Grant,  during  good  behaviour,  to  Robert  Cosyu  of  the  city  of  London  of 

Westminster,  the  office  of  controller  of  the  scrutiny  of  all  merchandise  within  the  port  of 

London  and  ports  and  places  adjacent  coming  from  or  going  to  foreign 

parts,  wifh  fees  as  in  the  years  named  above.  By  p.s. 

July  6.  Grant  for  life  to  John  Plumbe  of  the  office  of  bailiff  of  the  king's  town 

Westminster,  of  Thaxstede,  co.  Essex,  with  fees  as  above.  By  p.s. 

June  22.  The  like  to  John  Bourgchier,  lord  of  Berners,  knic^ht,  from  4  March 

Westminster,  last,  of  the  office  of  constable  of  the  king's  castle  of  Wyndesore  and  the 

custody  of  all  forests,  parks,  warrens  and  other   places  pertaining   to  the 

same,  with  fees  as  above  from  the  revenues  of  the  castle.  By  p.s. 

July  17  Appointment  for  life  of  John  Pylkiugtou,  esquire,  as  one  of  the  esquires 

'Westminster,  of  the  body,  receiving  50  marks  yearly  Kom  2  April  last  from  the  farm  and 

issues  of  the  counties  of  London  and  Middlesex.  By  p.8« 

U    86914.  ft 


18  CALENDAR  OF  PATENT  ROLLS. 


1461.  Membrane  9 — cont, 

July  9.  Grant  for  life  to  Richard  Willy,  yeoman  of  the  king's  bed,  from 

WeBtminster.  first  day  of  the  rei^^n,  of  the  oflBce  and  custody  of  the  kind's  wardi 
within  the  palace  of  Westminster,  with  fees  as  in  the  times  of  Edward  ! 
and  Richard  II.  from  the  farm  of  the  city  of  Winchester. 

By  p.s.     Two  fees  were  paid  because  he  has  two  offices  in  one  pat 

July  7.  The   like  to  John  Rypon,  esquire,  of  the   office  of  one   of  the   kii 

Westminster.  Serjeants  at  arms,  with  \2d.  wages  daily  from  4  March  last  from  the  isi 
of  the  county  of  Kent,  a  coat  of  the  king's  livery  yearly  at  the  great  wi 
robe  of  the  same  suit  and  cloth  as  other  Serjeants  at  arms,  and  other  prt 
of  his  office.  By 

Vacated  by  surrender  and  cancelled^  because  en  17  July^  0  Edward  i 
the  king  granted  the  office  to  him  by  other  letters  patent. 

June  20.         The  like  to  John  Hord  of  Shrewsbury  of  the  offices  of  the  chief  bailiv 
Westmmster.  and  feodary  of  the  king's  honour  of  Wallyngford,  with  fees  as  in  the  tii 
of  Edward  III.  and  Richard  II.  from  the  farm  of  the  king's  town 
Shrewsbury.  By 

July  12.  Exemption  for  life  of  Thomas,  bishop  of  Bath  and  Wells,  on  accoun 

Westminster,  debility  and  old  age,  from  attendance  in  person  in  Council  and  Parliam< 
provided  that  he  send  proctors.  By 

July  8.  Grant  for  life  to  the  king's  servant  Thomas  Mountgomery,  knight 

Westminster,  the  office  called  *  lynge  armurer'  within  the  Tower  of  London,  with  fee 
in  the  last  year  of  Edward  III.  and  the  first  of  Richard  II. 

By  p.s.  [11 

July  10.  The  like  to  the  king's  servant  William  Sayer  oi  40/,  yearly  from  Eai 

Westminster,  last  from  the  fee  farjn   of  Queenhlthe  {Ripe  Regine)  within  the  cit; 

London.  By " 

July  8.  Appointment  for  life  of  Thomas  Montgomery,  knight,  as  steward  of  1 

Westminster,  king's  manor,  castle  or  lordship  of  Haddele,  co.  Essex,  and  grant  to  him 
life  of  the  office  of  the  stewardship  of  the  same,  with  fees  as  above.    By 

May  20.         Grant  during  good  behaviour,  to  the  king's  servant  John  Sandes,  of 
Westminster,   office  of  clerk  of  the  king's  mint  and  exchange  within  the  Tower  of  Lond 
with  fees  as  above  at  the  hands  of  the  keeper  of  the  mint  and  exchange. 

By 

April  1 5.        The  like  to  Robert  Hiett  of  the  office  of  porter  of  the  king's  castle  of 
York.        Bryawell  in  the  forest  of  Deane,  with  fees  as  in  the  years  named  above. 

The  like  to  the  same  of  the  office  of  receiver  of  the  king's  forest  of  Dec 
with  fees  as  above.  By 

MsMBtUSM  8. 

April  12.        Grant  for  life  to  the  king's  sei'vitor  John  Woode,  esquire,  of  the  office 
Westminster,  keeper  of  the  king's  council  chamber  at  Westminster,  with  fees  as  abov< 
the  great  wardrobe*  By 

July  8.  The  like  to  John  Smyth,  for  his  good  sorvice  to  the  king's  father,  of 

Westminster,  office  of  receiver  of  the  king*s  honours  and  lordships  of  Clare  and  Raih 

and  his  other  possessions  in  the  counties  of  Norfolk,  Sufiblk,  Essex,  K€ 

Surrey,  Sussex,  Cambridge,  Huntingdon  and  Herts,  the  duchy  of  York,  i 

the  earldom  of  March,  with  the  accustomed  fees.  By 

May  18.  The  like  to  the  king's  servant  William  Sayer  of  the  office  of  constable 

York.        the  king's  castle  of  Rostormell,  co.  Cornwall,  receiving  the  accustomed  i 

at  the  hands  of  the  receiver  general  of  the  duchy  of  Oornwall.  By  i 

April  12.         The  like  to  the  king's  servitor  John  Woode,  esquire,  of  the  office  of  us! 

Westminster,  of  the  receipt  of  the  Excheciuer,  with  fees  as  in  the  last  year  of  Edward  I 

and  the  first  of  Richard  II.  By  i 


1  EDWARD  IV.— Pabt  I.  19 


1461.  Membrane  8 — cant. 

April  12.        The  like  to  Alured  Corneburgh,  yeoman  of  the  crown,  of  the  custody  of 

Westminster,   the  king's  castle  of  Launceston,  co.  Cornwall,  and  the  office  of  fcodary  or 

escheator  of  the  duchy  of  Cornwall  in  the  county,  receiving  fees  as  above 

from  the  issues  of  the  duchy.  By  p.s. 

May  2.  The  like  to  the  king's  kinsman  John  Nevill  of  Mountagu,  knight,  from 

Westmiuster.  Easter  last,  of  the  king's  mines  in  Devon  and  Cornwall  in  which  gold  and 
silver  can  be  found  or  worked  for,  at  a  rent  of  1 10/.  yearly,  as  the  king's 
father  used  to  pay,  with  power  to  demise  the  same  for  10,  16  or  20  years, 
provided  that  atter  his  death  the  holders  pay  a  tithe  of  the  pure  silver  or 
lead  to  the  king  or  his  faimer.  By  K. 

July  12.  Appointment  of  William   Bourgchier,  knight,  to  the  custody,  during 

Westminster,  minority,  of  Alexander  Luttrell,  son  and  heir  of  James  LutereU,  knight, 

deceased,  tenant  by  knight  service  of  Henry  VI.  cfe  facto  et  non  de  jure 

king   of  England,   with  his  marriage ;  and  so  from  heir  to  heir  during 

minority.  By  p.s. 

July  14.  Appointment,  from  Michaelmas  last,  of  Bichard  Darlond  as  receiver  of 

Westminster,  all  manors  and  lands  in  Kent  late  of  Henry  lord  Ghray  of  Codnor,  so  long  as 
they  are  in  the  king's  hands,  rendering  his  account  yearly. 

By  bill  of  the  treasurer. 

July  14.  The  like  of  John  Smyth  as  receiver  and  surveyor  of  all  manors  and  lands 

Westminster,  late  of  James,  earl  of  Wilts,  in  Suflfolk  and  Essex,  from  the  time  of  his  death. 

By  bill  of  the  treasurer. 

July  12.  Pardon  to  Robert  Bertyn,  citizen  and  clothier  of  London,  *  draper,'  of  his 

Weetminster.  outlawry  for  not  appearing  before  John  Prysot  and  his  fellows,  justices  of 
tlie  Bench  in  the  late  reign,  to  satisfy  William  Crowde,  citizen  and  ^  peautrer ' 
of  London,  and  William  Staynf ord,  '  gentilman,'  of  a  debt  of  40/.  which  they 
recovered  against  him  and  7  marks  Ss.  Sd  damages  for  the  detention  of  the 
same ;  he  having  surrendered  to  the  Flete  prison  and  paid  the  damages 
into  court,  as  Robert  Danby,  knight,  chief  justice  has  certified.    Middlesex. 

July  10.  Grant  for  life  to  John  Brycheold,  plumber,  of  the  office  of  serjeant  of  the 

Westminster,  plumbery  within  the  Tower  of  London,  the  palace  of  Westminster,  the 
manors  of  Eltham  and  Shene  and  elsewhere  iu  England,  with  I2d.  wages 
daily  from  4  March  last  from  certain  farms  in  Norfolk  and  Suffolk,  a  livery 
of  the  suit  of  the  Serjeants  of  the  works  or  40«.  yearly  ai  Christmas  at  the 
great  wardrobe,  and  all  houses  pertaining  to  his  office.  By  p.s. 

July  7«  Grant  for  life  to  the  king's  servant  John  Pylkynton,  esquire,  of  the  office 

Westminster,  of  parker  of  the  king's  park  of  Berkhamstede,  with  fees  as  in  the  last  year 

of  Edward  IIL  and  the  first  of  Richard  II.  By  p.s. 

The  like  to  the  same  of  the  office  of  the  constableship  of  the  king's  castle 

of  Berkhamstede,  with  fees  as  above.  By  p.s« 

July  18.         The  like  to  Roger  Dynham,  esquire,  of  the  offices  of  steward  of  all  castles 

Westminster,  and  other  possessions  peilaining  to  the  duchy  of  Cornwall  in  the  county  of 

Devon  and  warden  of  the  stannaries  in  the  same  county.  By  p.S4 


Mbmbranb  7. 

Nov.  19.        Grant  to  Richard  Heymau,  canon  of  Salisbury  Cathedral  and  prebendary 
Westminster,  of  Aulton  Pancras  in  the  same,  of  a  canonry  in  the  king's  free  chapel  or 
St.  Mary  and  St  Stephen  within  his  palace  of  Westminster  and  the  prebend 
which  William  Walesby  lately  had  in  the  same,  on  an  exchange  of  benefices 
with  John  Waynflete. 

June  4.         Appointment,  during  pleasure,  of  Robert  Tromy  as  controller  of  the 

Westminster,   scrutiny  in  the  port  of  Sandwich  and  ports  and  places  adjacent,  receiving 

the  accustomed  fees.  By  bill  of  treasurer; 


20  CALENDAR  OP  PATENT   ROLLS. 


1461.  Membratte  7 — cotU. 

The  like  of  the  following  in  the  ports  named  and  ports  and  places 
adjacent : — 

June  4.  Richard  Symson  in  the  port  of  London, 

Westminster. 

July  17.         John  Hadelesej  in  the  port  of  Kyngeston  on  Hull. 
Westminster. 

July  20.         John  Bareshy  in  the  ports  of  Esceter  and  Dortemooth. 
Westminster. 

Sept.  5.         Robert  Cosyn  in  the  port  of  the  city  of  London. 
BnstoL 

Nov.  IB.         Robert  Bedale  in  the  port  of  Southampton. 
Westminster. 

Dec.  21.         William  Smyth  in  the  port  of  Southampton.  "  i  V 

Westminster. 

May  30.         The  like  of  Henry  Acclum  as  surveyor  of  the  scrutiny  in  the  port  of 
Westminster.  Elyngeston  on  Hull  and  ports  and  places  adjacent.  By  bill  of  treasurer. 

The  like  of  the  following  in  the  ports  named  and  ports  and  places 
adjacent. 

July  15.         Henry  Halywell  in  the  port  of  the  city  of  London. 
Westminster. 

April  25.        John  Peke  in  the  port  of  Bristol  By  hill  of  treasurer. 

Westminster. 

Oct.  19.         John  Frysshe  in  the  ports  of  Southampton  and  Pole. 
Westminster.  By  bill  of  treasurer. 

April  12.         The  like  of  Walter  Writtell  as  king's  surveyor  in  the  port  of  Bristol  and 
Westminster,  ports  and  places  adjacent.  By  bill  of  treasurer. 

April  12.         The  like  of  William  Bernert  us  gauger  in  the  same. 
Westminster.  By  bill  of  treasurer. 

July  14.         The  like  of  Edmund  Parker  in  the  port  of  Lynne  and  ports  and  places 
Westminster,  adjacent.  By  bill  of  treasurer. 

March  26.        Grant,  during  pleasure,  to  Walter  Harnes  of  the  office  of  tronage  and 

Westminster,  pesage  in  the  port  of  Kyngeston  on  Hull  and  ports  and  places  adjacent, 

receiving  the  accustomed  fees.  By  bill  of  treasurer. 

July  26.         The  like  to  John  Fogg,  knight,  in  the  port  of  Boston  and  ports  and  places 
Westminster,  adjacent. 

1462. 

Feb.  10.         The  like  to  William  Purpill  in  the  port  of  Sandwich  and  ports  and  places 
Westminster,  adjacent.  By  bill  of  treasurer. 


MSMBRANS  6. 

1461* 

July  13.         RatMcation  for  life  of  the  estate  which  Robert  Kirkeham,  king's  clerk, 

Westminster,  has  as  dean  of  the  king's  free  chapel  of  St.  Stephen  within  his  palace  of 

Westminster,  prebendary  of  Broundeswode  in  the  church   of  St.  Paul, 

London,  and  of  St.  Katharine  in  the  church  of  St.  John,  Beverley,  and 

parson  of  the  church  of  All  Saints,  Hastynges,  co.  Sussex.  ny  K. 

July  9.  Grant  for  life,  from  the  first  day  of  the  reign,  to  Elizabeth,  lady  Say, 

Westminster,  late  the  wife  of  John  Mongomerey,  knight,  of  the  manor  or  lordship  of 

Chesthunt,  co.  Herts,  which  she  has  held  for  some  time,  with  advowsons 

and  knights'  fees,  and  release  to  her  of  any  issues  due  to  liie  king.     By  p.8. 


1  EDWARD  IV.— Part  L  21 


J461.  Membrane  6 — cont. 

July  8.  Orant  for  life  to  Humphrey  Audeley,  king's  esquire^  of  the  constableship 

Westminster,  of  the  king's  castle  of  Suthampton,  with  fees  as  in  the  last  year  of  Edward 

in.  and  the  first  of  Bicliard  II.  By  p.s. 

July  7.  Appointment  for  life  of  Ealph  Hastynges,  esquire,  as  one  of  the  esquires 

Westminster,  of  the  body,  receiving  50  marks  yearly  froiu  2  April  last  from  the  issues 

of  the  county  of  Northampton.  By  p.s. 

July  12.         Granty  during  good  behaviour,  to  William  Bateman  of  Haverford  West 

Westminster,  in  Wales  of  the  office  of  butler  (boiellar')  of  the  port  of  Milf ord,  with  fees 

as  in  the  last  year  of  Edward  III.  and  the  first  of  Richard  II.  By  p.8. 

The  like  to  the  same  of  the  office  of  approver  of  the  king's  revenues, 
profits  and  mills  of  Haverford  West,  with  fees  as  above.  By  p.s. 

July  15.         The  like  to  Bichard  Crowcestre  of  the  office  of  bailiff  of  the  king's  castle 
Westminster,  and  lordship  of  Bamburgh,  co.  Northumberland,  with  fees  as  above. 

By  p.s. 

The  like  to  the  same  of  the  office  of  porter  of  the  castle,  with  fees  as  above. 

By  p.s. 

July  10.         Grant  for  life  to  James  Manthorp,  esquire,  from  4  March  last,  for  his 

Westminster,  good  service  to  the  king's  father,  of  the  office  of  one  of  the  king's  Serjeants 

at  arms,  receiving  12^.  wages  daily  from  the  issues  of  the  counties  of 

Norfolk  and  Suffolk,  and  a  robe  yearly  at  Christmas  of  the  suit  of  Serjeants 

at  arms  at  the  hands  of  the  keepef'  of  the  great  wardrobe.  By  p.s. 

June  20.         appointment  for  b'fe  of  B|obert  Dovedale,  knight,  as  chief  justice  of  the 

Westminster.    Common  Bench  in  Ireland,  receiving  fees  of  261.  ISs.  4:d,  and  regards  of  20 

marks  yearly,  viz.  20/.  from  the  farm  of  Dublin  and  10/.  from  the  customs 

and  cokets  within    the  ports  of  Dublin  and  Droghda,  with    all  other 

accustomed  profits.  By  p.s. 

July  18.  Grant  for  life  to  Richard  Kesteyne,  king's  esquire,  of  the  offiee  of  one  of 

Westminster,  the  king's  Serjeants  at  arms,  receiving  I2d,  wages  daily  from  4  March  last 
from  the  issues  of  the  counties  of  London  and  Middlesex  and  a  coat  of  the 
king's  livery  at  Christmas  yearly  at  tlie  great  wardrobe  of  the  same  suit 
and  cloth  as  other  Serjeants  at  arms,  with  all  other  fees  pertaining  to  the 
office.  By  p.s. 

July  10.         G^ant  to  the  king's  kinsman  John,  earl  of  Worcester,  and  his  heirs  and 
Westminster,  assigns,  of  the  office  of  keeper  of  the  king's  forests  of  Wabrigge  and  Sapley, 
CO.  Huntingdon,  with  underwood,  herbage  and  pannage,  reasonable  susten- 
ance for  the  king's  deer  excepted.  By  K. 

April  22.         Grant  for  life  to  Nicholas  Gaynesford,  one  of  the  ushers  of  the  king's 

Westminster,  chamber,  of  the  office  of  porter  of  the  king's  castle  of  Odyham,  with  fees  as 

in  the  times  of  Edward  IIL  and  Bichard  II.  from  the  issues  of  the  manor  or 

lordship  of  Odyam.  By  K. 

July  18.         The  like  to  the  king's  servant  William  Welles,  knight,  of  the  office  of 

Westminster,  chancellor  and  keeper  of  the  Great  Seal  of  Ireland,  with  the  accustomed 

fees  from  the  form  of  Droghda  and  the  issues  of  the  king's  lands  and  courts 

in  Ireland.  By  p.s. 

July  8.  Grant,  during  good  behaviour,  to  the  king's  servant  Bobert  Norreys, 

Westminster.   *  gentilman,'  of  the  office  of  chancellor  of  the  green  wax  of  the  Exchequer  of 

Ireland,  receiving  the  accustomed  fee  at  the  hands  of  the  collectors  of 

customs  and  cokets  in  the  ports  of  Dublin  and  Drogheda,  with  all  other 

profits  as  in  the  last  year  of  Edward  III.  and  the  first  of  Bichard  II. 

By  p.8. 

July  14.         Grant  for  life  to  Thomas  Walterot  of  the  office  of  one  of  the  king's 

Westminster.  Serjeants  at  arms,  receiving  I2d.  wages  daily  from  the  farm  of  the  city  of 

Winchester  with  a  livery  yearly  of  the  suit  of  the  king's  esquires  at  the 

^eat  wardrobe.  By  K. 


22  CALENDAB  OF  PATENT  ROLLS, 


1461.  Mbmbrane  5. 

July  12.        Inspexifmu  and  confirmation  to  John  Flaseden  of  letters  patent 
Westminster.  French)  of  the  king's  father  Richard,  duke  of  York,  earl  of  March   \ 
Ulster,  lord  of  Wyggemore  and  Clare,  lieutenant-general  and  governo: 
France  and  Normandy,  dated  at  Argenten,  30  June,  35  Henry  VI.,  be 
a  grant  to  him,  his  servitor,  of  the  offices  of  *  laundier  '  and  '  palissc^r 
his  park  of  Connesburgh,  eo.  York,  with  the  accustomed  wages  from 
issues  of  the  lordship  of  Connesburgh 

By  p.s.  and  for  \  mark  paid  in  the  hana[ 

July  9.  Confirmation  for  life  to  Margaret,  duchess  of  Somerset,  of  166/.  1 3^.  ' 

Westminster,  yearly  held  by  her  in  dower  of  the  endowment  of  John,  late  duke 
Somerset,  her  husband,  and  of  the  assignment  of  Henry  VI.  out  of 
annuity  of  500/.  from  the  petty  custom  in  the  port  of  London,  and  also 
16G/.  13*.  4c/.  yearly  heM  as  above,  out  of  an  annuity  of  5(X)/.  at  the  n^ce 
of  the  Exchequer.  By  p.s.  and  for  40*.  paid  in  the  hnnap 

July  17.        Grant  for  life  to  John  Wroth,  esquire,  of  the  office  of  master  of  \ 

Westminster,  king's  dogs  called  *hereres,*  receiving  \2d.  wages  daily  from  Easter  1 

from  the  issues  of  the  counties  of  Bedford  and  Bucks  and  also  other  wag 

viz.  4rf.  daily  for  a  yeoman  'barners,*  ^\d.  daily  for  his  horse,  2d.  daily  : 

each  of  two  yeomen  *  bamers '  and  two  yeomen  *  veauterers,'  \\d.  daily  i 

each  of  two  grooms  of  the  latter  office,  and  ^.  for  the  puture  of  ea 

of  36  running  dogs  (canum  ctirrentium)  and  9  greyhounds  (Jeporariorm 

from  the  issues  of  the  subsidy  and  ulnage  of  cloth  and  a  moiety  of  t 

forfeitures  of  the  same  in  the  counties  of  Somerset  and  Dorset^  with  : 

other  profits  pertaining  to  the  office,  in   the  some  manner  as  Richa 

Strykeland,  esquire,  h«S.  By  p 

July  18.         The  like  to  Richard  Duke  of  the  office  of  porter  of  the  king's  castle 
Westminster.  Exeter,  co.  Devon,  with  wages  as  in  the  last  year  of  Edward  III.  and  tl 
first  of  Richard  II.  By  p 

July  15.  Grant  to  Richard  Illyngworth  and  his  heirs  and  assigns  of  a  capit 

Westminster,  messuage  and  3  bovates  ^of  land  in  Kirkeby  Wodhous,  20  acres  of  wo( 
called  *  Colynfall,'  100  acres  of  pasture  called  *  Palespark,'  *  Powedefek 
*Merkwair  and  *  Sraethefeld,'  a  messuage  and  2  bovates  of  land  in  Aide 
worth,  10  acres  of  meadow  there  called  '  Dyot  Medowe'and  a  free  rei 
of  3*.  yearly  from  a  toft  in  Kirkeby  Wodhous,  co.  Nottingham,  in  tl 
king's  hands  by  reason  of  a  feoffment  which  John  Broxstowe  late  < 
Broxstowe,  co.  !N'otts,  gentleman,  made  to  Robert  Cutwolf,  prior  of  S 
Mary,  Newstead  in  Shirwode,  and  John  Elmham,  prior  of  Holy  Trinit; 
Lenton,  without  licence,  extended  at  36*.  Ad.  yearly ;  200  acres  of  waste  < 
the  king's  soil  within  his  forest  of  Shirwode  adjoining  the  tenemtMits  < 
the  said  Richard  called  *  Hardwyk,'  *  Hardwykcloses '  and  *  Akebrigf^e '  o 
the  east,  extended  at  3«.  4rf.  yearly ;  and  a  water-mill  called  '  Sutton  Milne 
with  a  stank  within  the  said  forest  between  Maun sf eld  and  Hardwyk ;  b 
fealty  and  the  service  of  3*.  4r/.  yearly,  with  licence  to  enclose  the  sai 
waste.  By  p.i 

March  8.  Mandate  to  the  dean  of  the  king's  free  chapel  of  Hastynges  to  indue 
Westminster.  ^Master  Richard  Bole,  bachelor  of  either  law,  into  the  prebend  of  Wesl 
huiTok,  void  by  resignation  of  Master  Thomas  Grannt,  to  which  Thomas 
bishop  of  London,  has  admitted  him  at  the  presentation  of  Thomas,  arch 
bishop  of  Canterbury,  Nicholas  Wymbysshe,  John  Fray  and  John  Andrew 
patrons,  and  to  assign  to  him  a  stall  in  the  choir. 

July  20.  Pardon  to  Edmund,  the  abbot,  and  the  convent  of  St.  Peter's,  Westmin 

Weitminster.   ster,  in  honour  of  Edward  the  Confessor,  whose  body  lies  in  the  abbej 

of  all  escapes  of  prisoners  from  their  custody  and  ail  suits  arising  therefrom 

By  p.s 

April  22.         Grant  for  life  to  Nicholas  Gaynesford,  one  of  the  ushers  of  the  king*! 
Westminster,  chamber,  of  the  office  of  constable  of  the  king's  castle  of  Odyham,  wit! 


»  EDWARD  IV.— Pabt  L  23 


1461.  Membrane  6 — cont, 

fees  as  in  the  times  of  Edward  III.  and  Richard  II.  from  the  issues  of  the 
manor  or  lordship  of  Odyham.  By  K. 

July  17.         The  like  to  Robert  Brent,  one  of  the  yeomen  of  the  king's  chamber,  of 

Westmingter.  the  office  of  reeve  of  the  king's  town  of  Middelton,  co.  Kent,   receiving 

the  accustomed  wages  from  the  issues  of  the  hundreds  of  Middelton  and 

Merden,  co.  Kent.  By  K. 

July  12.  The  like  to  John  Wykes,  usher  of  the  king's  chamber,  of  the  office  of 

Westminster,  steward  of  the  king's  castle  and  lordship  of  Rysyng,  co.  Norfolk, 
with  fees  as  in  the  last  year  of  Edward  III.  and  the  iirst  of  Richard  II. 

By  p.s. 

July  20.  The  like  to  John  Byconell,  from  4  March  last,  of  the  office  of  steward 

Westminster,  of  the  king's  manors  of  Stoke  under  Hamdon,  Cori  Malct,  Stratton  super 
le  Vosse,  Faryngdon  Gurney,  Welton  alias  VVelwetoii,  Inglescombe, 
Melton  Faucomberge,  Midsomernorton,  Wy  decomb,  Laverton,  S  hep  ton 
Malet  and  Westharptree,  co.  Somerset,  and  Rymo  with  members,  co. 
Dorset,  late  of  Matthew  Gurney,  knight,  receiving  5/.  yearly  at  the  hands 
of  the  receiver  of  the  manors,  as  did  Thomas  Yonge.  By  p.s. 

July  18.  The  like  to  Stephen  Clampard  of  the  office  of  master  smith  within  the 

Westminster.  Tower  of  London,  receiving  fees  as  in  the  times  of  Edward  III.  and 
Richard  II.  at  the  Exchequer,  with  a  mansion,  two  gardens  and  a  house 
called  *  PoweJerhous  '  in  the  Tower,  a  mansion  on  the  wharf  of  the  Tower, 
a  parcel  of  land  within  the  king's  palace  of  Westminster  and  all  other 
things  pertaining  to  the  office^  and  a  robe  yearly  at  the  great  wardrobe. 

By  p.s, 


Mbmbranb  4. 

Jolj  18.         The  like  to  the  king's  servant  William  Wysden  of  the  office  of  bailiff  of 

Westminster.  Haveryng  at  the  Bowre,  co.  Essex,  with  wages  as  in  the  last  year  of  Edward 

III.  and  the  first  of  Richard  II.  By  p.s. 

The  like  to  the  king's  servitor  Thomas  Dukmanton,  esquire,  of  the  office 

of  weigher  or  of  the  pesage  of  money  in  the  Exchequer,  with   fees  as 

above  at  the  receipt  of  the  Exchequer.  By  p.s. 

The  like  to  Thomas  Gille  the  younger  of  the  office  of  the  water-bailiwick 

of  Dertmouth  and  places  and  creeks  adjacent,  with  fees  as  in  the  years 

named  above.  By  K. 

July  20.  The  like  to  John  Wykes,  king's  esquire,  from  Easter  last,  of  the  offices 

Westminster,  of  controller  of  the  coinage  of  tin  an<l  controller  of  the  king's  mines  of 
gold  and  silver  and  other  mines  in  which  gold  or  silver  may  be  found  in 
Cornwall  and  Devon,  receiving  fees  for  the  first  office  as  in  the  time  of 
Edward  III.  at  the  hands  of  the  receiver  general  of  the  duchy  of  Cornwall 
and  4/.  yearly  for  the  second  office  from  the  issuea  of  the  mines ;  and  also 
of  16/.  yearly  from  the  farm  of  the  borough  of  Leskert,  co.  Cornwall. 

ByK. 

July  15.         The  like  to  the  king's  servitor  Thomas  Ilennale  of  the  office  of  keeper 

Westminster,  of  the  king's  wardrobe  within  his  castle  of  Hadle,  co.  Essex,  receiving  the 

accustomed  fees  at  the  hands  of  the  farmers  of  the  king's  manor  of  Estwode, 

By  p.s. 

June  6.         The  like  to  John  Water  of  the  office  of  chief  serjeant  of  the  county  of 
Westminster.   Uriel  in  Ireland,  with  fees  as  in  the  times  of  Edward  III.  and  Richard  II. 

By  p.8. 

June  15.        Grant,  during  good  behaviour,  to  Thomas  Mongomery,  esquire,  of  the 

Westminster,    office  of  warden  of  the  exchange  and  mint  within  the  Tower  of  London, 

with  fees  as  above  from  the  issues  of  the  same  from  Easter  last.        By  p.s. 


24  CALENDAR  OF  PATENT  ROLLS, 


1461.  Membrane  4 — cont, 

Julj  16.  Grant  for  life  to  Thomas  Belgrave,  king's  esquire,  of  the  office  of  oi 
Westminster,  of  the  king's  Serjeants  at  arms,  receiving  I2d.  wages  daily  from  4  Mar< 
last  from  the  issues  of  the  counties  of  Norfolk  and  Suffolk,  with  a  coat 
the  king's  livery  yearly  at  Christmas  at  the  great  wardrohe,  of  the  same  su 
and  cloth  as  other  Serjeants  at  arms,  with  all  other  profits  pertaining  to  h 
office.  By  K.  by  word  of  moutl 

July  15.  General  pardon  to  William  Gascoigne  the  elder,  knight.  By  p. 

Westminster. 

July  20.         Grant  for  life  to  Edward  Hargille,  one  of  the  yeomen  of  the  crown,  f roi 

Westminster.   6  March  last,  of  the  offices  of  parker  of  the  king's  park  of  Fremantel 

CO.  Southampton,  and  ranger  of  his  forest  of  Wulmere  and  Alisholf,  wit. 

fees  as  in  the  last  year  of  Edward  III.  and  the  first  of  Richard  II.  from  tb 

issues  of  the  county.  By  p.i 

July  18.         The  like  to  the  king's  servant  Robert  Asshewell  of  the  office  of  one  c 

Westminster,   the  four  messengers  of  the  Exchequer,  receiving  4\d,  wages  daily  at  th 

receipt  of  the  Exchequer  and  a  robe  of  the  livery  of  a  yeoman  of  thi 

chamber  yearly  at  Christmas  at  the  great  wardrobe.  By  p.s 

July  23.  The  like  to  Richard  Illyugwortb,  from  Easter  last,  of  40/.  yearly  fron 

Westminster,   the  farm  of  the  town  of  Notyngham  at  the  hands  of  the  sheriffs  or  bailiffs. 

By  p.s 

July  23.         The  like  to  Geoffrey  Garnet  of  the  office  of  customer  and  collector  of  the 

Westminster,  moneys  from  the  weighing  of  wool  in  Calais,  with  fees  from  the  same  as  ir 

the  last  year  of  Edward  III.  and  the  firat  of  Richard  II.  By  p.s. 

July  23.  Grant,  during  pleasure,  from  Michaelmas  last,  to  the  king's  kinswoman 

Westminster.  Anne,  duchess  of  Buckingham,  of  the  custody  of  the  manor  of  Brustwyk, 

commonly  called  the  lordship  of  Holdemesse,  with  knights'  fees,  advowsons, 

views  of  frank  pledge,  etc.  By  K, 


MSMBRANB  3. 

July  18.  Grant  for  life  to  William  Essex  of  the  office  of  remembrancer  in  the 

Westminster.  Exchequer,  with  fees,  clothing  and  other  profits  as  in  the  last  year  of 

Edward  III.  and  the  first  of  Richard  II.  By  p.s. 

July  4.  The  like  to  the  king's  servitors  John  Luthington  and  John  More  of  the 

Westminster,   office  of  keeper  of  the  king's  park  of  Branthinghey  in   the  parish  of 
Chesthunte,  with  fees  as  above. 

May  12.  The  like  to  the  king's  tenant  Roger  Salesbury,  esquire,  of  the  office  of 

York.        chief  forester   of   the   king's  forests   and   parks  within   his  lordship  of 
Dynbyegh,  with  fees  as  above. 

June  20.         The  like  to  John  Skyrwith,  citizen  and  *  letherseller '  of  London,  that  he 
Westminster,   bethe  king's  *  points  maker  *  {factor  ligulanwi),  with  fees  as  above. 

[Byp.8.  110.] 

April  15.         Grrant,  during  good  behaviour,  to  Robert  Hiett  of  the  office  of  porter  of 
York.        the  king's  castle  of  St.  Bryawell  in  the  forest  of  Deane,  with  fees  as  above. 

By  p.s. 

May  1.  Grant  for  life  to  the  king's  servitor  William  Staveley  of  the  custody  of  the 

Westminster,   king's  park  of  Chiltern  Langley,  co.  Herts,  and  the  houses  of  the  mansion  of 

his  manor  of  Chiltern  Langley,  and  the  office  of  under-parker  of  his  park  of' 

Langley  called  *  Chiltern  Langley,'  with  fees  as  above  from  the  issues  of 

the  manor.  By  K. 

Vacated  because  otherwise  below, 

June  23.         Grant,  during  good  behaviour,  to  Nicholas  Burton  of  Sandwich  of  the 
Westminster,  office  of  bailiff  of  Dover,  with  fees  as  in  the  years  named  above.        By  p.s. 


1  EDWARD  IV.— Part  I.  25 


1461  •  Membrane  3 — cont. 

May  4.  Grant  for  life  to  the  king's  kinsman  George,  bishop  of  Exeter,  from 

Westminster.  Easter  last,  of  the  custody  of  the  king's  manor  or  lordship  of  Chiltem 
Langley,  co.  Hertford,  with  mills,  rents,  vert  and  other  profits,  excepting 
250  rabbits  yearly  for  the  king's  household,  at  a  yperly  rent  of  50  marks  2Qd, 
as  formerly  and  6«.  M.  besides ;  with  acquittance  of  repairs  and  allowance 
for  any  annuity  granted  out  of  the  manor.  By  K. 

May  6.  The  like  to  the  same,  from  4  March  last,  of  the  custody  of  the  king's 

Westminster,  manors  of  Wodestoke,  Hanburgh,  Wotton  and  Stonefeld  with  members 
and  hamlets  and  the  hundred  of  Wotton,  co.  Oxford,  with  their  appur- 
tenances, in  the  same  manner  as  John,  late  earl  of  Shrewsbury,  and  Ralph 
de  Sudeley,  knight,  held  the  same,  rendering  127/.  16«.  6 J.  yearly  and 
supporting  all  burdens  except  lOQs.  yearly  to  be  paid  to  the  steward  of 
the  court  of  the  manor  and  hundred  and  certain  other  fees  and  the  repair 
of  the  houses  and  mills  of  the  manors  and  the  enclosure  of  the  park  of 
Wodestoke.  By  K. 

May  17.  The  like  to  John,  lord  Stourton,  of  the  farm  of  the  king's  castle,  lord- 

Westminster,  ship  and  town  of  More,  at  the  usual  rent,  and  the  office  of  the  custody  of 
the  king's  park  of  More,  with  fees  as  in  the  last  year  of  Edward  III.  and 
the  first  of  Kichard  II.  By  p.s. 

June  15.         The  like  to  Humphrey  Stafford,  knight,  of  the  office  of  the  stewardship 
Westminster,  of  the  duchy  of  Cornwall,  with  fees  as  above.  By  p.s. 

June  21.         Grant,  during  good  behaviour,  from  4  March  last,  to  Walter  Blount, 

Westminster,  esquire,  of  the  office  of  treasurer  of  the  town  and  marches  of  Calais,  with 

fees  as  above   and  allowances  for  his  passages  and  stay   there  and    the 

repairs  there,  in  the  same  manner  as  Richard  Vernon,  knight,  or  any  other 

treasurer.  By  p.s. 

May  3.  Appointment  for  life  of  William  Eustace  as  one  of  the  king's  Serjeants 

Westminster,  at  arms,  with  i2d.  wages  daily  at  the  hands  of  the  sherifis  of  London. 

By  p.s. 

June  13.        Grant  for  life  to  William  Feynes,  knight,  lord  of  Say,  of  the  office  of 
Westminster,  the  constableship  of  the  king's  castle  of  Porchestre,  co.  Southampton,  with 
fees  as  in  the  last  year  of  Edward  III.  and  the  first  of  Richard  II. 

By  p.s, 

July  1.  The  like  to  Thomas  Combe  of  the  custody  of  the  king's  launds  within 

Westminster,  his  park  of  Claryngdon,  co.  Wilts,  otherwise  called  *  le  launderehip,'  with 
fees  as  above. 

April  1.  The  like  to  Halnath  Maulevrer,  esquire,  of  the  office  of  virgebalivui  or 

Durham.  the  verger  who  carries  the  rod  before  the  king  at  the  feast  of  St.  George 
within  Windsor  Castle,  with  the  accustomed  fees  from  the  issues  of  the 
king's  lordship  or  manor  of  Colde  Kenbyngton,  co.  Middlesex,  and  all 
profits  pertaining  to  the  office.  By  K. 

Vacated  by  surrender  and  cancelled^  because  on  20  July,  1 1  Edward 
IV.,  the  king  granted  the  same  to  William  Evington, 

July  24.  Irhe  like  to  William  Skipwith,  king's  knight,  of  the  office  of  the  steward- 

Westminster,  ship  of  the  king's  lordship  of  Borewelle,  co.  Lincoln,  with  the  accustomed 
fees.  By  p.s. 

July  20.         Appointment,  during  pleasure,  of  Walter  Rufford,  to  provide  horses  of 
Westminster,  any  price  for  the  king  and  the  household.  By  K. 


Membrane  2. 

July  31.         General  pardon  to  Gervase  Clyfton  late  of  Brauborn,  co.  Kent,  knight, 
Westminster,  alias  late  of  London,  of  all  offences  committed  by  him  before  20  July. 

ByK. 


26  CALENDAR  OP  PATENT  ROLLS. 


X461,  Membrane  2— con/,  ^ 

Julj  30.         Orant  for  life  to  Thomas  Bank  of  the  office  of  one  of  the  king's  Serjeants 

Westminster,   at  arms,  receiving  12<f.  wages  daily  from  the  issues  of  the  city  of  London 

and  county  of  Middlesex,  a  coat  of  the  king's  livery  yearly  at  Christnuut 

at  the  greaPwardrobe  of  the  same  suit  and  doth  as  other  seijeants  at 

arms,  and  all  other  fees  pertaining  to  his  office.  By  p.s. 

Mandate  in  pursuance  to  the  sheriffs. 

July  28.  Grant  for  life  to  John  Oker,  for  his  good  service  to  the  king's  father,  of 

Westminster,   the  office  of  master  carpenter  of  the  king's  castle  of  Kermerthmen  in  South 

Wales  with  the  accustomed  fees.  By  p.s. 

July  31.  Appointnient  for  life  of  William  Hastynges,  knight,  of  Hastynges,  king's 
Westminster,  chamberlain,  as  chamberlain  of  Noi*th  Wales,  and  grant  to  him  of  that 
office,  receiving  the  accustomed  fees  at  his  own  hands  and  rendering  his 
account  therefor  before  the  king's  auditors  there,  and  rendering  his  account 
for  the  issues  of  his  office  before  the  barons  of  the  Exchequer  at  West- 
minster. By  p.s. 

July  25.  Grant  for  life  to  Hugh  Shirley,  one  of  the  yeomen  of  the  crown,  ot 

Westminster.  Qd,  daily  from  4  March  last  from  the  farm  of  the  city  or  town  of  Hereford, 
for  his  fee.  By  K. 

Mandate  in  pursuance  to  the  mayor,  bailiffs,  and  others,  of  Hereford. 

July  27.  Grant  for  life  to  Robert  Brews  of  the  office  of  constable  of  the  king's 

Westminster,  castle  of  Winchester,  with  fees  as  in  the  times  of  Edward  III.  and  Richard 
II.  from  the  issues  of  the  county  of  Southampton.  By  p.s. 

Vacated  hy  surrender  by  him  and  cancelled, 

July  24.  The  like  to  the  king's  servant  Henry  Creswell,  for  his  good  service  to 

Westminster,   the  king's  father  Richard^   duke  of  York,  of  the  office  and  custody  of 

Brynnescolys,  Strangsty  and  Holmefryth,  co.  York,  receiving  \2d,  wages 

daily  from  the  issues  of  the  king's  lordship  of  Wakefyld.  By  IL 

Aug.  1.  The  like  to  the  king's  servant  Nicholas  Barnewall,  knight,  of  the  office 

Westminster,   of  chief  justice  of  the  King's  Bench  in  Ireland,  with  the  fees  pertaining  to 

his  office  from  the  farm  of  the  city  of  Dublin.  By  p.s. 

July  30.         Appointment,  during  pleasure,  of  Vincent  Pitelesden  as  deputy  of  John 

Westminster.   Wenlok,  lord  of  Wenlok,  knight,  king's  chief  butler  of  England,  in  the 

port  of  Southampton  and  ports  and  places  adjacent,  receiving  the  accustomed 

fees.  By  till  of  the  chief  butler. 

July  28.  Grant  for  life  to  the  king's  servant  Richard  Felde  of  a  tenement  called 

Westminster.   <  le  logge '  within  the  king's  palace  of  Westminster,  between  the  round 

house  and  the  king's  hall,  with  a  '  shadde '  and  tenement  annexed  between 

the  round  house  on  the  west  and  the  door  of  the  palace,  rendering  13*.  4rf. 

yearly.  By  p.s. 

Aug.  3.  Appointment,  during  pleasure,  of  Henry  Thwaytes  as  general  receiver  of 

Westminster,  all  castles,  lordships,  etc.,  late  of  Henry  Percy,  earl  of  Northumberland, 
deceased,  within  the  realm,  now  in  the  king's  hands,  rendering  his  account 
as  may  be  agreed  upon  between  him  and  the  king  or  the  treasurer. 

By  bill  of  treasurer. 

Like  appointment  of  Thomas  Blounf  as  general  receiver  of  all  castles, 
lordships,  etc.,  late  of  Edmund,  earl  of  Richemond,  deceased,  within  the 
realm,  and  as  steward  and  receiver  of  all  lordships,  manors,  etc.,  late  of 
Thomas  Roos  of  Hamelak,  and  Richard  Tunstall,  knights,  in  the  city  of 
Lincoln  and  the  parts  of  Lyndesey  and  Holand,  co.  Lincoln. 

By  bill  of  treasurer. 

Aug.  4.  Appointment  for  life  of  Peter  Trevers,  esquire,  as  clerk  and  keeper  of  the 

Westminster,  rolls  of  Chancery  in  Ireland,  receiving  a  fee  of  20/.  yearly  from  the  king's 
manor  or  lordship  of  Eskyr,  co,  Dublin  with  all  other  accustomed  profits. 

By  p.s. 


1  EDWABD  IV.— Part  I.  27 


14gl^  Membrane  2 — eont.  ^ 

Aug.  10.         Presentation  of  David  Lloyt,  chaplain,  to  the  parish  church  of  St^Brigida 

Westminster,  of  Dysserth,  in  the  diocese  of  St.  Asaph.     The  letters  are  directed  to  Th.y 

archbishop  of  Canterhuryy  primate  of  Ilngland  and  legate  of  the  apostolic 

seOt 

Membrane  1. 

July  27.         Grant  for  life  to  Roger  Pye,  late  yeoman  of  the  chamber  of  the  king's 

Westminster,   father  Bichard,  duke  of  York,  of  the  office  of  ranger  of  the  king's  forest  of 

Cank,  receiving  fees  as  in  the  times  of  Edward  III.  and  Bichard  II.  from 

the  issues  of  the  county  of  Stafford.  By  K. 

July  29.  Grant  to  the  warden  and  fellows  of  the  college  of  St.  Mary  of  Wynton 
Westminster.  (New  College),  Oxford,  commonly  called  *  Saint  Marie  College  of  Wyn- 
chestre  in  Oxenford,'  of  100/.  from  the  first  moneys  arising  from  the  second 
moiety  of  the  tenth  lately  granted  by  the  clergy  of  the  province  of  Canter- 
bury in  the  archdeaconry  of  Salisbury  and  Wilts,  and  lUO  marks  from  the 
like  in  the  archdeaconry  of  Oxford  ;  in  fxill  repayment  of  250  mai*ks  lent 
by  them  to  the  king.  By  K. 

Mandate  in  pursuance  to  the  collectors  of  the  above-named  moiety  in  the 
archdeaconry  of  Oxford. 

The  like  to  the  collectors  in  the  archdeaconry  of  Salisbury  and  Wilts. 

July  23.         Appointment  for  life  of  John  Biche  of  Barchamstede  as  king^s  bailiff  of 
Westminster,  the  lordship,  honour  and  liberty  of  Berkhamstede  in  the  counties  of  Hert- 
ford, Buckingham  and  Northampton,  with  the  accustomed  fees.         By  p.8. 

July  15.         Grant  for  life  to  Bees  Vaghan  of  the  office  of  the  provostship  of  Baydirgey 
Westminster,   in  Wales,  with  the  accustomed  fees.  By  p.s. 

July  6.  The  like  to  Bichard  Nonynton  of  the  office  of  keeper  of  *  le  hay wode  * 

Westminster,   in  the  county  of  Hereford,  with  the  accustomed  fees.  By  p.s. 

July- 25.  Grant  in  frank  almoin,  from  the  first  day  of  the  reign,  to  Henry  Sampson, 

Westminster,  clerk,  now  provost,  and  the  scholars  of  the  college  called  *  Orvelle  *  within 
the  university  of  Oxford,  of  the  foundation  of  Edward  II.,  ol  the  manors 
and  lordships  of  Wadle  alias  Wadeley  and  Wykingesham,  co.  Berks,  alias 
the  manor  of  Worda,  with  all  services,  fairs,  warrens,  views  of  frank  pledge 
and  other  appurtenances,  in  aid  of  their  sustenance.  By  p.s. 

July  28.         Grant  for  life  to  Henry  Trenchard,  esquire,  of  the  constableship  of  the  ' 

Westminster,   king's  castle  of  Caresbrok  in  the  Isle  of  Wight  and  the  office  of  riding 

forester  in  the  New  Forest,  co.  Southampton,  receiving  the  fees  pertaining 

to  the  offices  at  the  hands  of  the  receiver  of  the  island  and  the  sheriff  of  the 

county  respectively.  By  K. 

July  29.         Grant,  during  minority,  to  Thomas  Parre,  king's  knight,  of  the  custody  of 

Westminster,  the  lands   of  the  heir  of  John  Hothom,  esquire,  son  and  heir   of  John 

Hothom,  knight,  with  the  marriage  of  the  heir.  By  p.8- 

July  27.         Grant  for  life  to  the  king's  servant  Thomas  Cook,  citizen  and  alderman  of 
Westminster.   London,  of  the  office  of  parker  and  keeper  of  the  king's  park  of  Haveryng 
'  at  Boure,  co.  Essex,  with  the  accustomed  fees  from  the  revenues  of  the  lord- 
ship and  manor  of  Haveryng  at  Boure.  By  K. 

July  29.         Pardon  to  Thomas  Havecok  of  Hastyng  of  all  felonies  committed  by  him. 
Westminster.  By  p.s. 

July  28.  Appointment,  during  good  behaviour,  of  John  Howard,  knight,  as  one  of 

Westminster,   the  king's  carvers,  receiving  40/.  yearly,  viz.  20/.  from  the  farm  of  the 

town  of   Ipswich,  co.  Suffolk,  and  20/.  from  the  issues  of  the  counties  of 

Norfolk  and  Suffi>lk.  By  p.s. 

July  30.  Grant  to  the  warden  and  scholars  of  the  college  called  *  Saint  Marie 

Westminster.   College  of  Wynchestre  by  Winchester*  of  100/.  from   the  first  moneys 


28  CALENDAB  OP  PATENT  ROLLS. 


'      1461,  Membrane  l-^ont. 

arising  from  the  second  moietj  of  the  tenth  lately  ginnted  bj  the  clergy  of 
the  province  of  Canterbury  in  the  archdeaconry  of  Winchester,  and 
100  marks  from  the  like  in  the  archdeaconry  of  Surrey;  in  full  repay* 
ment  of  260  marks  lent  by  them  to  the  king.  By  K. 

Mandate  in  pursuance  ho  the  collectors  of  the  above-named  moiety  in  the 
archdeaconry  of  Surrey. 

The  like  to  the  collectors  in  the  archdeaconry  of  Winchester. 

Membrane  27d, 

March  28.  Commission  to  William  Bourgchier  of  Pitzwaren  and  Philip  Gourtenay, 
WestminBter.  knights,  Philip  Beaumont  and  Henry  Bodrugan,  esquires,  Thomas  Clemens 
and  the  sheriff  of  Cornwall  to  arrest  and  imprison  John  Arundell  the  elder, 
John  Trevilian  and  Thomas  Bodulgan,  esquires,  and  others  in  insurrection 
in  the  said  county  and  elsewhere,  and  to  cause  a  proclamation  to  be  made 
against  insurrection  in  the  said  county. 

April  1.  Commission  to  John  Wenlok,  knight,  to  summon  the  gentry  and  others  of 

Westminster,   the  counties  of   Northampton,    Bedford,    Buckingham,    Cambridge  and 

Huntingdon  to  assist  him  to  besiege  the  castle  of  Thorpwaterfeld.       By  K. 

March  31.        Commission  to  William  Lee,  <  joynour,'  to  find  carriage  and  labourers 
WestminBter.   called  *  carters '  with  horses  and  oxen  for  three  cannons  or  great  bumbards 
which  the  king  has  ordered  to  be  sent  for  the  siege  of  the  castle  of  Thorp- 
waterfeld. By  K, 

April  2.  Commission  to  John  Swillyngton,  Edmund  Thome  and  Richard  Pereson 

Westminster,  to  enquire  into  the  complaint  of  the  brethren  of  the  hospital  of  St.  John 
Baptist,  Brakley,  co.  Northampton,  that  Bobert  Marchall  and  others 
unknown  entered  the  hospital  on  20  March  and  carried  off  divers  utensils 
and  beasts  belonging  to  it,  alleging  that  they  were  the  property  of  Henry 
Grene,  clerk,  late  master  of  the  hospital,  a  servant  of  the  household  of 
Henry  VI.,  and  disposed  of  them  in  divers  places  and  threatened  the 
brethren,  ministers  and  servants ;  and  to  arrest  and  imprison  the  offenders. 

April  7.  Commission  to  Thomas  Qylle  the  younger  and  Thomas  Gule  to  arrest 

Westminster,  and  imprison  Bobert  Gambon,  gentleman  of  the  county  of  Devon,  and 
Edmund  Bosum,  alias  Boson  and  others  in  insurrection  in  the  county. 

April  9.  Commission  to  John  Stokes,  esquire,  John  Cooke,  Thomas  Fowler,  John 

Westminster.  Lowe,  John  Cornewaill,  Richard  Hows  and  John  Russhe  to  arrest  and  im- 
prison certain  persons  who  wander  about  in  the  counties  of  Oxford,  Berks 
and  Bucks,  killing,  spoiling  and  oppressing  the  king's  subjects,  and  to  seize 
their  goods. 

March  10.        Commission  by  the  advice  of  the  council  to  Robert  Elmham,  John  Pyn- 
We&tniinster.  chemore,  Robert  Grice,  Richard  Bunne,  John  Sayve,  Olivej*  Holme  and 
Christopher  Norwych  to  buy  and  provide  wheat,  rye,  barley,  beans,  peas, 
and  other  kinds  of  grain  for  the  king's  store. 

April  10.         Commission  to  John  Newebury,  esquire,  to  arrest  and  imprison  William 

Westminster.  Grymesby  and  Bartholomew  Halley,  esquires,  Peter  Ualley,  John  Penycok, 

John  Skipwith,  Thomas  Rutland,  Thomas  Colbrace  and  Oliver  Munde, 

rebels  and  adherents  of  Henry  VI.,  and  other  suspected  persons,  and  to 

seize  their  goods. 

Commission  to  Walter  Conye,  mayor  of  Bishop's  Lenn,  John  Howard, 
esquire,  Thomas  Wynkfeld,  esquire,  Gilbert  Debenhaor  Thomas  Kelowe 
and  Thomas  Crosse  to  seize  and  bring  before  the  king  in  Chancery  Thomas 
Tudenham,  knight,  and  Robert  Halyday,  '  yoman,'  rebels  and  adherents  of 
Henry  YI.,  and  to  seize  their  goods  and  take  them  to  London. 

April  8.  Commission   to  Henry   Pomeray,  Walter  Ralegh,  Thomas  Gylle  the 

Westminster,  younger,  Seindere  Pomeray  and  John  Balegh  to  arrest  Edward  Pever^U  of 


1  EDWARD  IV.— Pabt  I.  29 


1461.  Membrane  2Td^^cont. 

Chidley,  ^yoraan,'  and  Peter  OUesbroun,  <  pedler,'  and  bring  them  before  the 
king  in  Chancery. 

May  9.  Commission  to  Geoffrey  Pygot,  knight,  Chrigtopher  Wandesford,  Thomas 

York.        Copley  and  William  Walleworth  to  ari-est  Thomas  Hope  of  the  parish  of 

Ripon,  *  yoman/  and  bring  him  before  the  king  in  Chancery.  By  K. 

Membrane  26J. 

Commissions  of  the  peace  in^various  counties  pursuant  to  the  statutes  of 
Winchester,  Northampton  and  Westminster  and  the  statutes  and  ordinances 
there  and  at  Cambridge.     {For  the  names  of  the  justices  see  Appendix)* 

Membrane  26d. 
Commissions  of  the  peace  in  various  counties.    (See  Appendix.) 

Membrane  24d. 

Commissions  of  the  peace  in  Tarious  counties,  pursuant  to  the  statutes 
and  ordinances  of  Winchester,  Northampton^  Westminster  and  Cambridge. 
{See  Appendix.) 

Membrane  23d. 
Commissions  of  the  peace  in  various  counties.    {See  Appendix.) 

Membrane  22d. 
Commissions  of  the  peace  in  various  counties*    {See  Appendix) 

Membrane  2ld. 
Commissions  of  the  peace  in  various  counties.     {See  Appendix.) 

Membrane  20d. 

April  27.  Commission  to  Thomas  Combe,  esquire,  and  the  sheriff  of  Surrey  and 
Durham.  Sussex  to  take  into  the  king's  hands  all  the  possessions  late  of  Henry,  duke 
of  Somerset,  Henry,  late  earl  of  Northumberland,  James,  late  earl  of  Wilts, 
Thomas  Roos  of  Ros,  knight,  John  Nevill  of  Nevill,  knight,  and  John 
Clyflbrd  within  those  counties  and  to  certify  thereto  in  Chancery  on  the 
morrow  of  Midsummer, 

May  5.  Commission  to  John  Maleverer,  William  Wakefeld  and  Richard  Poleyn 

Middlefaam.  to  arrest  William  Hebden  of  Burghbrigge,  Gk>dfrey  Plompton,  John 
Normanbye,  Thomas  Keld,  John  Nicoll,  Thomas  Tode  the  younger  and 
Henry  Throlthrop  and  bring  them  before  the  king  in  Chancery. 

May  2.  Commission  to  Robert  Ogle,  knight,  to  take  into  the  king's  hands  his 

Newcastle-     castle  of  Harebotell  and  lordship  of  Reddesdale  and  also  the  castle  of  Forde 

on-Tyne.      imd  other  possessions  late  of  John  Heron  of  Forde,  knight,  deceased,  and  to 

seize  Roger,  son  and  heir  of  John,  and  keep  the  same ;  and  to  crush  any  of 

the  county  of  Northumberland  who  may  resist. 

May  11.         Commission  to  John  Bourghchier  of  Bemes  and  Robert  Harecourt, 
York.        knights,  Walter  Blount,  William  Mitton,  William  Harecourte  and  John 
Harecourte  to  arrest  and  imprison  rebels  in  the  counties  of  Derby  and 
Stafford. 


30  caIendar  of  patent  rolls. 


1461.  Mefnhrane  20d — cont. 

May  11.  Commission  to  William  Hastynges,  knight,  Thomas  Burgh,  esquire, 
York.  »  Thomas  Palmer,  Thomas  Blount  and  Richard  Neell  to  take  into  the  king's 
hands  all  the  possessions  in  England  and  Wales  and  the  marches  of  the 
same  late  of  William,  viscount  Beaumont,  of  the  inheritance  of  John,  late 
viscount,  his  father,  and  [Elizaheth]  his  mother,  daughter  and  heiress  of 
William  Philip,  late  Lord  Bardolf,  and  otherwise,  and  also  the  castle  and 
lordship  of  Bever  with  appurtenances  in  the  counties  of  Lincoln,  Leicester 
and  Notts,  and  the  lordship  and  manor  of  Stoke  Daubenej  with  appur- 
tenances, CO.  Northampton,  late  of  Thomas  Koos,  knight,  commonly  called 
lord  of  Roos,  they  being  rebels  and  adherents  of  the  king's  enemies  of 
Scotland  and  France ;  with  power  to  demise  the  same  at  farm  and  appoint 
stewards,  receivers,  bailiffs  and  other  officers.  By  K. 

May  22.         Commission  to  Roger  Radclyff  and   Robert  Morley,  esquires,  Thomas 

Westminster.  Brampton   the  younger,  William  Radclyff,  James  Radclyff  and  Richard 

George,  serjeant  at  arms,  .to  arrest  John  Radclyff  and  Thomas  Radclyff  sons 

of  Q-eoffrey  Radclyff,  knight,  John  Castell  and  Geoffrey  Trym  and  bring 

them  before  the  king  in  Chancery. 

May  8.  Commission  to  John  Haryngcon,  esquire,  John  Kyrton,  Thomas  Banke 

York.  and  William  Boleyn  to  arrest  Thomas  Claymond,  esquire,  Robert  Heryng, 
^  sowter,'  and  John  Hedale.  carpenter,  and  bring  them  before  the  king  in 
Chancery. 

May  13.  Commission  to  the  king's  kinsman  Richard,  earl  of  Warwick,  William 

York.  Nevile  of  Faucomberge,  knight,  John  Nevile  of  Montagu,  knight,  Ralph 
Graystok,  knight,  Thomas  Lomley,  knight,  James  Stranguays,  knight,  John 
Conyers,  knight,  George  Lomley,  Richard  Stranguays,  James  Stranguays, 
William  Burgh,  John  Wandesford,  Thomas  Mountfort,  William  Conyers 
•  and  Ralph  Ayssheton  to  arrest  and  imprison  rebeU  in  the  North  Riding  of 
the  county  of  York.  By  IL 

MSMBRANS   I9d. 

May  9.  Commission  to  William  Herbert,  knight,  Thomas  Herbert,  esquire  of  the 

York.  body,  John  Herbert  and  Hugh  Hunteley  to  take  into  the  king's  hands  the 
county  and  lordship  of  Pembroke  with  all  members  and  other  possessions 
in  England  and  Wales  and  the  marches  of  Wales  late  of  Jaspar,  earl 
of  Pembroke,  the  castle  of  Dunster,  co.  Somerset,  and  other  possessions  late 
of  James  Luterell,  knight,  and  the  castles  and  lordships  of  Gudricch  and 
Urchenfeld  in  the  county  of  Hereford  and  the  marches  of  Wales  adjacent 
and  the  county  of  Gloucester  and  all  advowsons  late  of  John,  earl  of 
Shrewsbury,  rebels.  The  said  William  has  also  power  to  appoint  stewards 
and  other  officers.  By  K. 

Commission  to  Thomas  Herbert,  esquire  of  the  body,  Thomas  Herbert 
the  younger,  esquire,  John  Herbert  and  Hugh  Huntley,  to  take  into  the 
king's  hands  all  the  possessions  late  of  William  Mille,  knight,  deceased, 
rebel,  within  the  counties  of  Gloucester  and  Hereford,  and  elsewhere 
within  the  realm  of  England  or  the  marches  of  Wales,  and  of  Roger 
Barowe,  rebel,  within  the  county  of  Hereford,  with  power  to  appoint 
stewards  and  other  officers.  By  K. 

May  10.  Commission  of  oyer  and  terminer  to  William  Stokton,  mayor  of  York, 

York.  Robert  Danby,  John  Wenlok,  knight,  James  Strangways,  knight,  William 
Hastynges,  knight,  Robert  Constable  of  Fleynburgh,  knight,  John  Thryske, 
Guy  Fayrefax,  Thomas  Neleson,  and  John  Thwaytes,  touching  treasons, 
insurrections  and  other  offences  committed  within  the  city  and  suburbs  by 
John  Morton,  clerk.  By  K. 

Commissions  of  array  in  various  couutieb.  [Far  the  names  of  the 
commissio)i€rsy  see  Appendix^]  By  K. 


1  EDWARD  IV.— Part  I.  31 


1461.  Mbmbrans  ISd. 

Commissions  of  array  in  various  counties.     (See  Appendix.) 

May  8.  Commission   to   John  Melton,  Jobii  Constable,  William  Saintqujntyn, 

*  York.  and  Eobert  Constable  of  Flajmburgb,  knights,  and  Robert  Hylyard  and 
John  Hartfeld,  esquires,  to  arrest  and  imprison  rebels  in  the  East  Riding 
of  the  county  of  York.  By  K. 

The  like  to  John  Copyndale,  John  Middelton,  John  Roddesham,  Thomas 
Tone,  Thomas  Etton  and  Brian  Holme,  bailiff  of  the  liberty  of  St.  John 
of  Beverley,  within  the  said  town  and  liberty. 

March  10.  Commission  with  the  advice  of  the  council  to  Robert  Elymham,  John 

WestminBter.  Pynchemore,  Robert  Grice,  Robert  Brightlede,  John  Sayve,  Oliver  Holme, 
and  Christopher  Norwiche,  to  provide  wheat,  rye,  barley,  beans,  peas,  and 
other  kinds  of  grain  for  the  king's  store. 

March  22*       Commission  to  the  king's  kinsman,  William,  earl  of  Arundel,  Roger 
Westminster.  Leukenore,  knight,  Thomas  Uvedale,  Thomas  Taweke,  John  Wode,  William 
Husee,  and  the  sheriff  of  Sussex,  to  arrest  and  imprison  certain  rebels, 
servants  of  Thomas  de  Roos.  By  K. 

Commission  to  Alexander  ClyfTord,  esquire,  John  Norton,  Thomas 
Remys,  John  Richyugwode,  Richard  Hogekyn,  and  the  constables  of  the 
hundred  of  Middelton,  co.  Kent,  to  arrest  and  imprison  certain  vagabonds 
in  the  said  county  and  hundred.  By  K, 

March  23.        Commission  to  William  Campernon,  esquire,  Walter  Raynell  and  Robert 

Westminster.  Raynell  to  arrest  and  imprison  William  Stenekke,  Thomas  Roger,  Thomas 

Stenelake,  Thomas  Prous,  Richard  Champernon  alias  Rawe,  John  Wigom 

alias  Wykeham,   John   Warberton   the   elder  and   John    Warberton   the 

younger,  *  merchaunt.'  Bj  K. 

March  27.        Commission  to  Geoffrey  Gate  and  William  Glover  to  fortify  the  castle 
Westminster,   of  Corff,  co.  Dorset,  and  hold  it  against  the  rebels. 

March  25.        Commission  to  Thomas  Saymer,  knight,  Thomas  Rodney  and  Robert 
Westminster.  Stowell  to   arrest  Alexander   Houdye,   knight,   and   deliver  him  to   the 
constable  of  the  Tower  of  London  or  his  lieutenant  to  answer  for  certain 
offences  committed  against  the  king's  person. 

April  6.  Commission  to  Thomas   Gillo    the  younger,   esquire,   to    arrest  John 

Westminster.  Flexmer  and  bring  him  before  the  king  in  Chancery. 


MsMBRAlfn  17rf. 

March  8.         Commission  to  Thomas  Inse,  Matthew  Hay  and  the  sheriff  of  Kssex  to 
Westminster,  array  all  ablebodied  men  in  the  said  county  for  defence  against  Henry  VL 
and  his  adherents  and  the  king's  enemies  of  France  and  Scotland,  and  to 
arrest  and  imprison  rebels.  By  K. 

The  like  to  Richard,  earl  of  Warwick,  in  the  counties  of  Northampton, 
Warwick,  Leicester,  Stafford,  Worcester,  Gloucester,  Salop,  Nottingham, 
Derby  and  York.  By  K. 

July  4.  Commission   to  William  Blount,  Nicholas  Fitz  Herbert,  John  jCurson, 

Westminster.  John  Pole,  Nicholas  Kneveton  and  Ralph  Saucheverell,  esquires,  Henry 
Bertrem  and  the  sheriff  of  Derby  to  arrest  Roger  Vernon  late  of 
Wyrkes worth,*  gentilman,'  Thomas  Cadmanlate  of  Haddon,  *yoman,'  Richard 
Cadman  late  of  the  same,  '  yoman,'  Ralph  Dounes  late  of  the  same, '  yoman,' 
John  Akerland  late  of  the  same,  •  yoman,'  John  Ston  late  of  Elton,  *  laborer,' 
Roger  Ston  late  of  the  same,  •  laborer,'  John  Kynder  late  of  Wynster, 
'laborer,'  Richard  Adamson  of  Wynster,  Maborer,'  Thomas  Cantrell  of 
Byrchour,  ^  laborer,'  William  Cantrell  of  the  same, '  husbondman,'  Richard 
Hay  ward  of  the  same,  Maborer,'  Charles  Spynner  of  Bonsalt,  Maborer,' 
Jobn  Boper  of  the  same,  Maborer/  Nicholas  Bromhall  of  Allerwasle^ 


32  CALENDAR  OF  PATENT  ROLLS. 


1461.  Membrane  17  d^cont, 

'  laborer/  Robert  Grente  of  the  Bame,  ^  laborer/  William  Parker  of  Belper, 
*  laborer/  Henrj  Hilton  of  Wyrkesworth,  *  joman/  Thomas  Storer  of  the 
same,  yeoman,  Richard  Smyth  of  the  same,  'yoman/  William  Smyth  of 
the  same,  '  yoman/  William  Stone  of  the  same,  '  yoman,' William  Sturdy 
late  of  the  same, '  laborer,'  William  Hochekynson  late  of  the  same, '  yoman,' 
John  Smyth  late  of  the  same,  '  yoman,'  Edmund  Elton  of  Aysshebum, 
'  yoman,'  William  Turnour  of  the  same,  '  yoman,'  Hugh  Parker  of  the 
same, '  yoman,'  Thomas  Parker  of  the  same,  ^  yoman,'  Richard  Hethcote  of 
the  same, '  servant,'  Nicholas  Bradley  of  the  same,  ^  yoman,'  John  Bayly-  of 
the  same,  ^  yoman,'  Ralph  Warde  of  Lokhawe,  '  yoman,'  John  Cotton  of 
Clyfton,  ^  husbondman,'  John  Wodehous  of  Derby, '  baker,'  and  John  Orme 
of  Derby,  *  yoman,'  and  bring  them  before  the  king  in  Chancery. 

March  10.        Commission  to  John  Leuthorp,  Thomas  Langley,  Henry  Barlee,  Ralph 

Westminster.  Qrey,  Thomas  Barley,  John  Barlee,  Richard   Barlee  and  Richard  George, 

one  of  the  king's  Serjeants  at  arms,  to  arrest  Thomas  Dryson  of  Hennam, 

John  Burgeys,  William  Bayford,  John  Coke,  John  Somerset  and  John 

Longe,  and  bring  them  before  the  king  in  Chancery.  By  K. 

March  11.       Commission  to  Thomas  Cobham,  knight,  Nicholas  Gay  nesford,  sheriff  of 

Westminster.  Surrey,  Thomas  Kager,  Henry  Carpenter,  John   Goodman   and   Robert 

Grerveys  to  arrest  and   imprison  Nicholas  Carewe,  late  escheator  in  the 

-   counties  of  Surrey  and  Sussex,  Bartholomew  Alyngton,  Richard  Kyng, 

Thomas  Dean,  Thomas  Bullok,   Richard  Luxford,  John  Beche,  Richard 

Adene,  Thomas  Compton,  John  Groffham  and  John  Poke. 

March  14.       Commission  to  Walter  Conye,  mayor  of  Bishop's  Lynn,  Thomas  KoUowe 

Westminster,   and  Thomas  Crosse  to  arrest  John  Halyday  the  elder,  Robert  Houghton, 

John  Marlyn,  *bruer,'  William  Prentyce  of  Castelacre,  Peter  Blake  and 

Hem*y  Danyell, '  yoman,'  and  their  favourers  and  bring  them  before  the  king 

in  Chancery.  By  K. 

March  20.        Commission  to  the  bailiffs  of  Kyngeston  on  Thamis  to  arrest  and  im- 
Westminster,   prison  all  evildoers  and  vc^abonds  in  the  town. 

March  22.        Commission  to  George  Danyell,  Walter  Duredent,  William  Norton,  John 
WestBiiaster.  Bamewell  and  John  Dogmanton  to  arrest  and  imprison  all  vagabonds  in 
the  counties  of  Middlesex,  Buckingham  and  Hertford. 


MSMBRANB  l&d. 

March  10.        Order  to  Humphrey  Stafford,  esquire,  sheriff  of  the  counties  of  Somerset 
Westminster,  and  Dorset,  and  to  the  escheator  in  those  counties,  to  take  into  the  king's 
hands  all  the  possessions  of  Henry,  duke  of  Exeter,  Henry,  duke  of  Somerset, 
Thomas,  earl  of  Devon,  James,  earl  of  Wilts,  Henry,  earl  of  Northumber- 
land, James  Loterell,  knight,  and  Alexander  Hody,  knight,  in  those  counties. 

ByK. 

March  18.        Commission  to  Henry  Frowyk,  Robert  Newthgate  and  Robert  Aubrey, 

Westminster,  esquires,  Walter  Kynton,  George  Ay nes worth,  constable  of  the  hundred  of 

Eldron,  William  Turney  and   John  Adam,  constable  of  the  hundred  of 

Speldron,  co.  Middlesex,  to  arrest  and   imprison  vagabonds  within  tlio  said 

hundreds.  By  K. 

May  27.       Commission  to  Gilbert  Brocas  and  William  Wt;kys  to  arrest  John  Blake, 
Westminster.  *  laborer,'  and  biing  him  before  the  king  in  Chancery. 

May  27.  Commission  to  Roger    Tocotes,    kni^^ht,  John  Whittokysmede,   John 

Westminster.  Reynold  and  the  sheriff  of  Wilts  to  enquire  into  divers  wastes,  dilapida- 
tions and  other  trespasses  committed  within  the  king's  castle,  manor,  park 
and  lordship  of  Devise,  town  of  Roude  and  forestn  of  Melkesham,  Pevesham 
and  Chippenham  in  the  said  county. 


1  EDWAHD  IV.— Part  I.  33 


1461,  Membrane  I6d — cont. 

June  9.         Commission  to  Edmund  Arnold  and  Bichard  Cove,  clerks,  to  collect  the 
WeBtminster.  rents  and  profits  of  the  poss^ons  of  the  college  of  St  Mary  and  St. 
Nicholas,  Cambridge,  and  to  acoooni  for  them  at  the  Exchequer  after 
allowance  for  necessary  expenses. 


Mbmbranb  ISd, 

June  12.        Commission  to  Nicholas  Wedower, '  bowjer,'  to  provide  bows,  wood  for 
Westminster,  bows  called  '  bowjstafes,'  and  other  things  pertaining  to  his  mystery  for 
the  king's  equipment  (stuffura)  in  bows,  and  carriage  for  the  same  and 
bowyers  and  labourers. 

June  10.         Commission  to  William  Norwyche,  mayor  of  Norwich,  William  Roke* 
Westminster,  wode  and  Thomas  Elys  to  arrest  Elizabeth,  wife  of  Thomas,  lord  Boos,  and 
Nicholas  Scotte  and  Robert  Walton,  his  servants,  and  bring  them  before  the 
king  in  council. 

June  12.         Commission  to  John  atte  Will  and  William  Marsshall  to  arrest  John 
Westminster.  Goldesue,  Thomas  Erlee  and  William  More,  and  bring  them  before  the 
king  in  Chancery. 

June  18.         Commission  to  the  sheriff  of  Gloucaster  to  arrest  and  bring  before  the 
Westminster,  king  in  council  William  Gefifray,  John  Cardmaker,  William  Curteys  and 
John  Bawelyn  and  their  accomplices,  who  have  created  a  disturbance  in 
that  county. 

June  17.  Commission  to  John,  abbot  of  Tavestok,  Philip  Courteney,  knight,  Karl 
Westminster.  Denham,  Philip  Courteney,  Humphrey  Courteney,  Nicholas  Kirkeham, 
Henry  Pomeray,  William  Duke,  mayor  of  Exeter,  William  Forster,  mayor 
of  Dertemouth,  and  Thonu&s  Pralle,  mayor  of  Toteneys,  to  arrest  and  bring 
before  the  king  in  council  William  the  Bastard  of  Exeter  and  Baldwin  Fulfurd, 
knight,  and  their  favourers,  who  have  been  stirring  ap  the  people  of  Devon 
and  Cornwall  and  the  adjacent  parts  to  side  with  Henry  VI.  and  the  king's 
adversaries  of  France. 

June  24.  Commission  to  John,  abbot  of  St.  John's,  Colchester,  the  abbots  of  Walden 
Westminster,  and  Waltham  Holy  Cross,  Nicholas,  prior  of  Wodebrigge,  Masters  Thomas 
Chicheley,  archdeacon  of  Canterbury,  William  Wolsflete,  dean  of  Stoke, 
John  Salet  and  William  Gosselyn,  Thomas  Waldegrave,  knight,  Gilbert 
Debenham  the  elder,  John  Clopton,  Thomas  Brewes,  Bichard  Suthwell, 
Bichard  Felawe,  William  Baldry,  John  Dorward  the  elder,  John  Grene, 
John  Tey,  Nicholas  Sharp,  William  Grene,  William  Forde,  John  Say, 
Bobert  Knolles,  Balph  Grey  and  Thomas  Brokes  to  urge  the  king's  subjects 
of  the  counties  of  Suffolk,  Essex  and  Hertford  to  raise  a  fleet  for  the  king 
against  his  enemies  of  France  and  Scotland,  after  the  example  of  the  men 
of  York  and  Scarburgh  and  other  places  in  the  north,  who  have  provided 
it  for  half  a  year  at  their  own  expense,  to  find  six  ships  fully  equipped  with 
men  at  arms  and  archers  to  the  number  of  700,  and  to  take  the  ships'  victuals 
and  stores. 

July^  1.  Conmiission  to  Bobert  Basely,  mayor  of  Wynchelsee,  Babilon  Graunford, 

Westminster.  Bichard  George,  one  of  the  king's  Serjeants  at  arms,  and  John  Copuldyk, 
bailiff  of  Wynchelseee,  to  enquire  by  oath  of  good  men  of  Kent  and  Sussex 
into  the  complaint  of  John  Hevy  and  Denis  Leyn,  merchants  of  Ireland, 
that  when  they  were  sailing  in  a  ship  towards  England  Thomas  Mather, 
master  of  a  balinger  called  Trugcy  and  other  pirates  seized  the  ship  and 
divers  goods  near  Wynchelsee,  although  they  had  been  customed  and 
coketted  in  Ireland,  and  disposed  of  them  at  their  will  ;  and  to  arrest  the 
offenders  and  order  restitution  if  need  be. 
II    86914.  n 


S4 


CALENDAB  OF  PATENT  BOLLS. 


1461. 

May  28. 
Westminsttr. 


MajdO. 
Weftnunster. 


May  IL 

York. 


June  6. 
WestmiiiBtdr. 


June  16. 
Westmiiifleer. 


JuljrS. 
Westminster. 


Membrane  14dl 

CommiBaion  to  John  de  Audeley,  William  Bonr^chier  of  Fitz  Waren, 
kni^t,  and  John  Stonrton  of  Stourton,  knight,  to  urge  the  king's  tnbjects 
of  Sie  counties  of  Southampton,  Wilts,  Somerset,  ^rset,  Cornwall  and 
Devon  to  resist  the  king's  enemies  of  Franoe  who  have  entered  the  island  of 
Guemesey  and  besieged  his  castle  of  Comet  there.   *  B7  C. 

Commission  to  Edmund  Arnold  and  Bichard  Cove,  clerks^  to  collect  the 
rents  and  profits  of  the  possessions  of  the  college  of  St.  Marj  and  St.  Nicholas, 
Cambridge,  and  to  account  for  them  at  the  Exchequer  after  allowance  for 
necessary  expenses. 

Commission  to  Humphrey  Bourghchier,  Thomas  Kjrme  and  the  sheriff  of 
Lincoln  to  arrest  Joan  the  wife  of  Bichard  Wellys  of  Wylloughbj,  knight, 
Bobert  Welljs  his  son,  and  John  Standrop  and  bring  them  before  the  king 
in  Chancery.  By  K. 

Commission  to  Thomas  Parr  and  Edward  Bethum,  knights,  and  Walter 
Striklond,  John  Hodieston,  Nicholas  Laybum,  James  Lajbum  and  William 
HarTugton,  esqubes,  to  arrest  Gkunaliel  Penyngton,  Christopher  Broughton 
and  James  Irryell  and  bring  them  before  the  Imig  in  council.  By  C. 

Commission  to  William  Hastynges,  knight,  Balph  Hastjnges,  esquire, 
Thomas  Palmer,  Thomas  Floure  and  WillSim  Banastre  to  arrest  Thomas 
Thlude  and  bring  him  before  the  king  in  Chancery  to  find  security  that  he 
will  not  harm  the  person  or  house  of  Bobert  Aleyn,  chaplain,  by  fire  or 
otherwise. 

Commission  to  William  de  Hastynges,  knight,  Balph  Ebutynges,  esquire, 
Thomas  Palmer,  Bichard  HastjnoLges  and  Thomas  Floure  to  arrest  Edmund 
Wareyn,  *  gentilman/  and  bring  him  before  the  king  in  council. 


May  14. 

Lincoln. 


May  11. 

York. 


May  12. 
York. 


May  10. 

York. 


May  14. 

Lincoln. 


Membrane  13J. 

Commission  to  Thomas  Clemens,  Thomas  Trefry,  Walter  Code,  Nicholas 
Southcotes,  Serjeant  at  arn»,  and  the  sheriff  of  Cornwall,  to  cause  restitu- 
tion to  be  made  to  Bichard  Temyo  and  divers  merchants  and  others  of 
London  and  the  said  county  of  tin  and  other  goods  of  which  they  complain 
that  they  have  been  despoiled,  and  to  arrest  and  imprison  the  onenders. 

ByK. 

Commission  to  William  Herbert,  knight,  Thomas  Herbert,  «squire  of  the 
body,  and  John  Doune  to  take  into  the  king's  hands  and  demise  at  farm  the 
castles  and  lordships  of  Lagham  and  Wslwaynes,  late  of  James,  earl  of 
Wilts,  in  South  Wales,  with  power  of  i^pointing  stewards  and  other 
officers.  By  K. 

Commission  to  John  Bourghchier  of  Berners  and  Bobert  Harecourt, 
knights,  Walter  Blount,  William  Mitton,  William  Harecourt,  John 
Harecourt  and  John  Seinbarbe  to  take  into  the  king's  hands  the  castle 
of  Egleshale  and  the  town  and  castle  of  Stafford  and  all  goods  which 
Henry  YL,  Margaret  his  consort  or  Edward  his  son  had  within  the  said 
castle  and  town  or  elsewhere  in  the  county,  and  to  arrest  all  who  resist. 

Commission  to  William  de  Faucomberge,  knight,  John  de  Audeley, 
Humphrey  Stafford,  knight,  Walter  Balegh  and  Bobert  Ingleton  to  take 
into  die  king's  hands  all  the  possessions  of  Thomas  Courtenay,  knight,  late 
earl  of  Devon,  within  the  realm.  By  K. 

Commission  to  William  Hastynges,  knight,  Thomas  Burgh,  esquire  of  the 
body,  Thomas  Blount,  John  Topclyff  and  John  Whichcotes  to  take  into  the 
king's  hands  the  lordships  and  manors  of  Kyme  Croft  and  Goltchawe  with 
their  members,  co.  Lincoln,  and  all  lands  late  of  William  Tailboys,  knight,  a 
rebel  and  adherent  of  the  king's  enemies  of  France  and  Scotland,  in  the  said 
county,  with  power  to  demise  the  same  at  farm,  and  power  to  the  said 
Thomas  Burgh  to  appoint  stewards  and  other  officers.  By  K. 


1  EDWAED  IV.— Part  I.  35 


1461.  Membrane  ISd—cont. 

Commiasion  to  Williaui  HastyngeB,  knigbt,  Walter  Blount,  esquire,  and 
the  sheriffs  of  Nottingham,  Derby  and  Stafford  to  take  into  the  king's  hand 
all  possessions  of  rebels  and  all  farms  and  rents  arising  from  the  same  up 
till  the  Annunciation  last.  By  K. 

May  23.  Commission  to  William  Duke,  mayor  of  Exeter,  to  arrest  and  imprison 

Wefltmiiister.  seditious  vagabonds  in  the  said  city  and  suburbs.  By  K. 

May  14.  Commission  to  Robert  Ingleton,  escheator  in  the  counties  of  Northampton 

Lincoln.  and  Rutland,  to  take  into  the  king's  hands  all  the  possessions  late  of  Henry, 
duke  of  Exeter,  Thomas  de  Roos,  knight,  John  lord  Beaumont,  John  de 
Lovell,  knight,  Thomas  Grey  of  Bugemont,  knight,  Richard  Wydevyll, 
kni|^t,  Alice  late  the  wife  of  John  de  Lovell,  knight,  William  Catesby, 
knight,  William  Vaux,  knight,  Thomas  Tresham,  knight,  Richard  Harodon, 
knigh^  Thomas  Trussell,  knight,  Thomas  G-rene  the  younger,  knight, 
Richard  Lovell,  esquire,  Henry  Roos,  esquire,  Robert  Tanfeld,  esquire, 
Thomas  Langton,  esquire,  John  Umfray,  John  Atclyff  and  John  Welles 
in  the  said  counties. 

May  29.         Commission  to  Thomas   Sakevyle  and  William  Bedston,  esquires,  to 
Wertminster.  arrest  John  Suthwyk,  esquire,  and  bring  him  before  the  king  in  council. 

April  13.        Commission  to  John  Blanford,  mayor  of  Shaftesbury,  and  John  Newe- 
Westminster,  burgh  and  Thomas  Hardgill,  esquires,  to  arrest  and  imprison  Juliana 
Whitynough  of  Shaftesbury  and  other  seditious  vagabonds  in  the  county  of 
Dorset. 

Maieh  10.  Commission  to  the  mayor  and  jurats  of  Sandwich  and  Richard  George, 
Westminster,  one  of  the  king's  Serjeants  at  arms,  to  enquire  into  the  complaint  of  George, 
bishop  of  Exeter  and  chancellor,  that  whereas  he  had  pledged  certain  jewels 
with  Richard  Rawlyn,  citizen  and  grocer  of  London,  for  a  sum  of  money  to 
be  spent  on  the  king's  service,  and  the  said  Richard  put  them  in  a  barrel 
on  board  a  vessel  of  Hastynges,  of  which  Edward  Qylle  was  master,  to  take 
to  Calais  for  delivery  to  certain  persons  there,  certain  pirates  boarded  the 
vessel  while  it  was  lying  in  the  port  of  Sandwich  waiting  for  a  fair  passage 
and  carried  off  the  jewels;  and  to  order  restitution  and  to  arrest  the 
offenders. 

Membrane  \ld. 

June  16.        Commission  de  toaUiis  et  fossatis   to  William  Notyngham,  Robert  de 

Weetminster.   Heworth,  Thomas  Heyton  and  Walter  WretiU  and  William  Pert,  esquires, 

along  the  coast  of  the  sea  and  marsh  from  the  mill  called  ^  Tempylmylle ' 

to  the  chapel  of  St.  Katharine  situate  upon  Bowebrigge  and  from  thence  to 

Homeden,  Hokley,  ToUesbury  and  Wyggebergh  in  the  county  of  Essex. 

Nov.  2.  The  like  to  John  Qrene,  Thomas  Colt,  Walter  Wyrtyll,  William  Pert 

Westminster,   and  Richard  Pygot  in  the  same  place. 

1462. 

Feb.  10.  The  like  to  Richard  Welby,   Richard  Pynchebek,  John  Pynchebek, 

Westminster.  Leonard  Thomeburgh  and  Richard  Fendyk  from  Skegnes  and  l^odyngton 
Pygot  to  Tydde  Gote  in  the  parts  of  Holand,  co.  Lincoln. 

Feb.  12.  The  like  to  John  Grene,  William  Notyngham,  Walter  Writell,  William 

Westminster.  Alyngton,  John  Sulyard,  Robert  Berdsey,  Thomas  Walton,  Hugh  Hure- 
look  and  Thomas  Hayton  in  the  above-named  places  in  the  county  of 
Essex. 

1461. 

Nov.  17.         The    like   to  Guy  Fairfax,  John  Vavasour,   Robert  Shefeld,   Edward 
Westminster.   Saltmarshe,  Geoffrey  Blakey,  John   Haldynby,   John   Barker,  and  John 
Yeland    in  the  parts  of  Mersshland  between   the  rivers  Owese,  Doon, 
Ayer  and  Went,  and  the  county  of  Lincoln. 

o2 


36  CALENDAR  OF  PATENT  BOLLS. 


1461.  MSMBRANB  9d. 

Julj  8.  Commission  to  the  e«cheator  of  Surrey  and  Sussex  to  take  into  the  king's 

Westmiiwter.   hands  all  the  possessions  late  of  JsBpar,  earl  of  Pemhroke,  William,  viscount 

Beaumont,  Thomas    Tresham,   Giles  Sejntclowe,  John    Fenjeok,  John 

Treyilian,  Nicholas  Bjgby  and  Master  David  Cook,  on  account  of  their 

rebellion  against  the  king. 

Membranb  8d. 

July  8.         Commission  to  Walter  Devereux  of  Ferrers,  knight,  William  Herbert 

Westminster,  of  Herbert,  knight,  and  James  Baskervile,  to  array  M  ablebodied  men  in 

the  counties  of  Hereford,  Gloucester,  and  Salop,  for  defence  against  the 

king's  enemies  of  France  and  Scotland,  and  the  adherents  of  Heniy  YI. 

and  Margaret  his  wife. 

Mbmbranb  Id. 

July  27.        Commission  to  William  Laken,  Nicholas  Sybill,  John  Bowe,  and  Bobert 
Westminster.  Martyn,  to  deliver  the  gaol  of  Maydeston  of  Gilbert  Herbert,  prisoner  there. 

July  13.        Commission  to  John  Desney,  Henry  Hawncert,  John   Barkworth,  and 
Westminster.   John  Hatleff  to  arrest  John  Sotell,  Henry  Sotell,  Bichard  Thurlewall, 
Bichard  Burgh,  Balph  Bayte,  and  John  Clynton,  clerk,  and  bring  them 
before  the  king  in  council. 

July  12.  Commission  to  Philip  Harveys,  master  of  the  king's  ordnance  {prdina" 
Westminster,  cionum)^  to  take  carpenters  called  *  whelers'  and  '  cartwryghts '  and  others, 
stonecutters,  smiths,  plumbers  and  other  workmen  for  the  same,  bombards, 
*  culbrynes,' '  fowelers,' '  serpentynes'  and  other  cannons  and  powders,' sulphur, 
saltpetre,  stones,  iron,  lead  and  other  equipment  for  them,  cross  bows  and 
string  (tractum)  for  them,  bows,  arrows,  *  bowestrynges,*  *  langedebeves,' 
^  glayves,'  and  clubs  {malleas)y  and  carriage  for  the  above  and  horses  called 
'  hakneys.' 

Mbmbranb  M. 

July  4.  Commission  to  William  Tiiommes  and  William  Fetherston  to  take  ships, 

Westminster,  masters  and  mariners,  for  the  king's  fleet. 

The  like  to  the  following : — 
Bichard  Barry. 
Thomas  Williams. 
Janicot  Gascoign. . 
John  Porter. 
Bichard  Strange. 
John  Hartilpole. 

Mbmbranb  5d, 

July  15.  Commission  to  Henry  Bodrugan,  Thomas  Trefry,  William  Trevenour, 
Westminster.  William  Hourde,  William  Penfoun  and  the  sheriff  of  Cornwall  to  enquire 
into  the  complaint  of  John  Dabzac  and  Bertram  de  la  Grave  of  Gascony 
that,  when  they  were  sailmg  to  England  in  a  ship  called  la  Margarete  of 
Brittany  laden  with  wines  and  other  goods  belonging  to  themselves  and 
other  merchants  for  the  delivery  of  certain  prisoners  under  letters  of  safe- 
conduct  of  Henry  VI.,  granted  at  the  instance  of  John  Stourton  of  Stourton, 
knight,  certain  pirates  in  a  carvel  of  Hugh  Courtenay,  knight,  seized  the 
ship  and  took  it  to  Fowey,  and  disposed  of  it  and  the  wines  and  merchandise 
and  letters  and  imprisoned  them ;  and  to  release  them  from  prison  and 
arrest  and  imprison  the  offendei-s  and  order  restitution  to  be  made,  if 
need  be. 


1  BDWABD  IV.—Part  I.  87 


14^1,  Mbmbranb  4d. 

July  23.         Commission  to  the  sheriff  of  Northampton,  Thomas  Wake,  esquire,  and 
Westminater.   Ingilram  Knjvet  to  arrest  William  Qrjndell  and  Richard  Leder  and  bring 
them  before  the  king  in  council. 

Julj  24.  Commission   to  William   Bourghchier  of  Fitz   Warjn,  knight,  Philip 

Westminster.  Beaumont,  Richard  Deushill,  Richard  Chichestre,  John  Gjfford,  Thomas 
Dowerjssh,  John  —  and  the  major  of  Bernestaple  to  urge  the  king^s 
subjects  of  the  north  parts  of  the  county  of  Devon  to  supply  ships  well 
equipped  with  men,  victuals  and  habiliments  of  war  for  halt  a  year  at  their 
own  expense  for  defence  against  the  king's  enemies  of  France  and  else- 
where, after  the  example  of  other  subjects  of  the  king  in  various  parts: 
and  to  appoint  persons  to  collect  money  and  other  supplies  thus  granted  and 
to  take  ships  and  men  and  equipment  as  above. 

The  like  to  the  abbot  of  Torre,  Henry  Fomeray,  Philip  Copleston,  Otho 
Gilbert,  Nicholas  Kirkham  and  the  mayors  of  Dertemouth  and  Tottenesse 
in  the  south  parts  of  Devon. 

The  like  to  6.  bishop  of  Exeter,  Philip  Courtenay,  knight,  William 
Duke,  mayor  of  Exeter,  John  Chuddelegh,  William  Denys,  John  Whityng, 
Robert  Wylsford  and  John  More  in  the  east  parts  of  Devon. 

The  like  to  the  abbots  of  Tavystok  and  Bukfast,  the  prior  of  Plymton, 
Roger  Champemoun,  Philip  Courteney,  James  Derneford,  Thomas  Buttoky- 
shide,  Andrew  Hylresdon,  Walter  Raynell,  John  Gybbys  and  Walter 
Ralegh  in  the  west  parts  of  Devon. 

July  23.         The  like  to  R.  bishop  of  Salisbury,  John  Stourton  of  Stonrton,  knight, 
Westminster.  John  Audeley  of  Audeley,  John  Seymour,  knight,  John  Boynton,  knight, 
Roger  Tocotes,  knight,  Thomas  Beauchamp,  Reginald  Stourton,  John 
Whittokesmede  and  Thomas  Rogger  in  the  county  of  Wilts. 

The  like  to  W.  bishop  of  Winchester,  the  king's  kinsman  William,  earl 
of  Arundel,  John  Audeley  of  Audeley,  John  Stourton  of  Stourton,  knight, 
Henry  Brune,  knight,  Maurice  Berkele,  Thomas  Welle,  Richard  Dalyn- 
grygge  and  Michael  Skyllyng  in  the  county  of  Southampton. 

Mbmbranb  3d. 

July  7.  Appointment  of  John,  abbot  of  Llaneguyfall,  David  Kyfllyn,  doctor  of 

Westminster,  laws,  Roger  Pyllysden,  John  Hanmer,  John  Trevor,  John  Pyllesden  and 

Robert  ap  How^  as  the  king's  attorneys  to  receive  altornaments  and 

attendances  from  all  tenants  of  his  lordship  of  Chyrke  and  Chyrkelande  in 

the  marches  of  Wales. 

June  18.  Commission  to  William  Hasty nges,  knight,  Thomas  Wake,  Ralph 
Westminster.  Hastynges,  Robert  Ingleton  and  John  Langton,  esquires,  William  Hyde, 
^gentilman,' Waltei*  Freyne, '  gentilman,'  and  John  Gefron,  ^gentilman,'to 
arrest  and  imprison  Robert  Tanfeld  the  younger,  John  Newale,  Richard 
Bowman,  Richard  Gierke  alitu  Taylour  of  Crannesley,  Richard  Austeyn  of 
Walgrave  and  John  Baron  of  Crannesley  and  other  seditious  vagabonds  in 
the  county  of  Noithampton. 

.   July  17.         Commission  to  John    Stourton  of   Stourton,    Humphrey  Stafford  of 
V^estminster.   Southwyk  and  William  Stourton,  knights,  and  G^rge  Midelton,  esquire,  to 

arrest  Robert  Tanfeld  the  younger  and  bring  him  befora  the  king  in 

council. 

July  23.         Commission  to  the    sheriff  of    Berks,  Richard  Restwold  and  John 
Westminster.  Sanyngbourne    to    arrest    Thomas    Curteyse,  Matthew    Taylour,    John 
Fra  .  .  .  urte  and  Thomas  Barnard  and  bring  them  before  the  king  in 
council. 

May  30.  Writ  of  aid,  directed  to  all  sheriffs,  mayors  and  others  of  the  king's 

Westminster.   ca.stle  of    Caresbroke,  lordship  and   island   of    Wight,   and  counties    of 

Southampton,  Sussex  and  Surrey,  for  Geoffrey  Gate,  whom  the  king  has 


38  CALENDAR  OP  PATENT  ROLLS. 


1461  •  Membrane  M — cant. 

appointed  lieutenant^  keeper  and  governor  of  the  said  castle,  lordship  and 
island. 

Maj  28.  Commission  to  John  Cheselburgh,  abbot  of   Quarre,  Geoffrey  Qate, 

Westminster,  lieutenant,  keeper  and  governor  of  the  king's  castle  of  Caresbroke  and  lord- 
ship and  island  of  Wi^t,  John  Haket,  Henry  Trenchard,  Richard  Lake 
and  Thomas  Haynowe  to  assemble  the  king^s  subjects  of  the  said  island  and 
the  counties  of  Southampton,  Surrey  and  Sussex  for  defence  of  the  castle 
and  island  against  the  king's  enemies  of  France  and  others,  should  they 
attempt  an  invasion. 

May  30.  Commission  to  the  said  GeofErey  Gate  to  defend  the  said  castle  of  Cares- 

Wesuninster.  broke  and  lordship  and  island  of  Wight,  to  summon  the  inhabitants  of  the 
island  and  others  for  watches  and  other  accustomed  services  for  defence 
when  necessary,  and  to  seize  and  imprison  rebels ;  and  appointment  of  him 
as  receiver  of  the  castle,  lordship  and  island,  to  coUect  all  rents  and  profits 
and  account  for  them  at  the  Exchequer  after  allowance  for  fees  to  himself 
and  his  soldiers. 


Membrane  2d. 

Aug.  1.  Commission  of  oyer  and  terminer  to  John  Bourghchier  of  Bemers,  knight, 

Westminster.  John  Audeley  of  Audeley,  Nicholas  Ayssheton,  Walter  Moile,  John  Lysle, 
knight,  John  Seymour,  kjiight,  Maurice  Berkeley,  esquire,  Michael  Skillyng 
and  Thomas  Uvedale,  esquire,  pursuant  to  the  statute  in  Parliament  at 
Westminster,  1  Richard  IL,  on  complaint  by  William,  bishop  of  Winchester, 
that  the  bondmen  of  his  manor  of  Estmene,  co.  Southampron,  have  thrown 
off  their  allegiance.  For  ^  mark  paid  in  the  hanaper. 

Aug.  9.  Commission  to  Richard  Symond,  Nicholas  Warner,  John  Braunche,  John 

Westminster.   Payntour,  William  Bartelot  and  John  Ghidlegh  to  provide  mariners,  cables 

(ffabulas)y  cordage  and  other  gear  for  a  ship  called  la  Grace  Dieu  at 

the  expense  of  the  king's  kinsman  Richard,  earl  of  Warwick,  to  whom  the 

king  has  committed  the  custody  of  the  sea. 

Aug.  9.  Commission  to  John  Otter,    Daniel  Sheldon,  Walter   Memme,  John 

Westminster.  Luddyngton,  John  Braunche  and  William  Brereton  to  provide  wheat,  beans, 

peas,  meat,  fish,  wine,  ale  (eeleam  et  servisiam)  and  other  victuals,  cables, 

cordieige,  bows,  arrows,  lances,  cannons,  powder,  iron  and  timber  and  smith's, 

carpenters  and  other  workmen  for  the  said  ship  as  above. 

Membrane  Id. 

Aug  12.         Commission  to  the  king's  brother  George,  duke  of    Clarence,  John 

Westminster.  Audeley  of  Audeley,  Walter  Devereux  of  Ferrers,  knight,  William  Herbert 

of  Herbert,  knight,  Thomas  Herbert^  esquire  of  the  body,  Williadl  Herbert, 

esquire,  John  Doune,  esquire,  John  Welford,  John  Kene  and  Hugh  Huntley 

to  enquire  into  all  treasons,  insurrections  and  rebellions  in  South  Wales. 

BvK. 


89 


1  EDWARD  IV.— PART  H. 


1461. 

Aug.  10. 
Westminster. 


July  28. 
Westminster. 


Ang.  8. 
Windsor. 


Aug.  9. 
Windsor. 


Aug.  12. 
Westminster. 


Aug.  13. 
Westminster. 

Aug.  12. 
Westminster. 


Aug.  8. 
Windsor. 


Aug.  8. 
Windsor. 


Membrane  26. 

Grant  for  life  to  John  Burgh,  derk,  of  the  custody  of  the  hospital  of  St. 
John  the  Baptist,  Occleye>  oo.  Bedford,  and  60  acres  of  arable  land,  3  acres 
of  psusture  and  3  acres  of  meadow  pertaining  to  it,  lately  granted  to  Bichard 
White,  clerk,  by  letters  patent  of  Henry  "Vl.  surrendered.  By  K. 

The  like  to  the  king's  servant,  Thomas  Ballesden,  of  a  plot  or  tenement 
in  the  parish  of  St.  Nicholas,  Calais,  to  hold  in  the  same  manner  as  John 
Floctons  or  Robert  Brenchesley  held  the  same  by  letters  patent  of  Henry  VI. 

By  p.s. 

The  like  to  the  king's  servant,  John  Skelton,  esquire,  of  the  o£S.ee  of 
spignmel  of  Chancery,  from  4  March  last,  with  the  accustomed  fees  at  the 
hands  of  the  keeper  of  the  hanaper,  and  a  livery  of  the  suit  of  the  esquires 
of  the  household  yearly  at  Christmas  at  the  great  wardrobe.  By  p.s. 

The  like  to  the  same  of  the  office  of  the  constableship  of  the  king's 
castle  or  lordship  of  Hadleigh  or  Hadley,  co.  Essex,  receiving  fees  as  in 
the  times  of  Edward  III.  and  Richard  II.  from  the  issues  of  the  same,  and 
of  the  custody  of  the  said  castle,  manor  or  lordship  from  Michaelmas  next, 
rendering  14/.  yearly  to  the  king,  as  did  Henry,  duke  of  Exeter,  to  Henry 
VI.,  and  40».  more  besides.  By  K. 

The  like  to  the  king's  servant,  Reginald  Yonge,  of  the  office  of  purveyor 
of  the  king's  works  at  the  manor  of  Childern  Langley  and  the  lodge  within 
the  park  there  with  the  palings,  with  the  accustomed  fees  from  the  issues  of 
the  counties  of  London  and  Middlesex  in  the  same  manner  as  Thomas 
Se^eham,  deceased,  had.  By  K. 

General  pardon  to  Hugh  Pakenham,  esquire,  late  of  the  soke  of  Win- 
chester ali<is  late  of  Hertley  WaspaiU,  co.  Southampton.  By  p.s. 

Release  to  William  Eure,  knight,  of  Wotton  in  the  bishopric  of  Durham, 
of  2,000/.  which  on  13  May  he  acknowledged  before  Robert  Danby,  chief 
justice  of  the  Bench,  at  York,  that  he  was  bound  to  pay  to  the  king  before 
Whitsuntide.  By  p.s. 

The  like  to  Robert  Eure,  late  of  Wotton.  By  p.s. 

The  like  to  Henry  Eure,  late  of  Wotton.  By  p.8. 

The  like  to  William  Eure,  clerk,  late  of  Wotton.  By  p.8. 

Appointment,  during  good  behaviour,  of  Thomas  Blount  as  general 
receiver  of  aU  castles,  manors,  lands,  &c«  late  of  Edmund,  earl  of  Richemond, 
deceased,  in  England,  and  steward  and  receiver  of  all  lordships,  manors, 
lands,  Ac.  late  of  Thomas  Roos  of  Hamelak  and  Richard  Tunstall,  knights, 
in  the  city  of  Lincoln  and  the  parts  of  Lyndesey  and  Holand,  co.  Lincoln, 
receiving  fees  to  be  agreed  upon  with  the  treasurer  of  England.         By  K, 

Ghrant  for  life  to  Robert  Constable,  knight^  of  the  offices  of  steward  of  the 
lordships  and  manors  of  Catton,  Foklington,  Lekynfeld,  Na£Ferton,  Hun- 
manby,  Semar,  Spofford,  Heley,  Tadcastre  and  Awbom  with  all  members, 
sokes  and  appurtenances  late  of  Henry,  earl  of  Northumberland,  deceased, 
in  the  county  of  York,  and  of  Howsom,  Turnumhall,  Garton,  Seton, 
Storwhatt,  Melbum,  Ravensthorp,  Boltbj  and  Thirlby  with  all  members 
and  appurtenances  late  of  Thomas,  late  lord  Roos,  who  still  survives,  in  the 
said  county ;  and  40/.  yearly  from  the  issues  of  the  same,  with  power  of 
appointing  the  accustomed  officers  and  ministers  at  the  accustomed  fees. 

ByK. 


40  CALENDAR  OF  PATENT  ROLLS. 


1461.  Membrane  26— can/. 

Julj  28.         The  like  to  Thomas  Clemens  of  the  offices  of  constable  of  the  king's 

Westminster,  castle  of  Tyntagelle,  co.  Corn^eally  and  controller  of  the  works  of  the  king's 

castles  and  manors  in  the  duchy  of  Cornwall,  from  Michaelmas  last,  with 

fees  as  in  the  time  of  Edward  III.  at  the  hands  of  the  reeve  of  the  king's 

manor  of  Tjmtagelle.  Bj  p.s. 

Mandate  in  pursuance  to  the  ree?e  of  the  manor. 

Mbmbranb  25. 

Aug.  6.  Appointment  for  life  of  Oermjn  Ljnche  of  London,  goldsmith,  as  warden 

WestDiinster.  and  master  worker  of  the  king's  moneys  and  coins  within  the  castles  of 
Develyn  and  Trym  in  Ii^land  and  graver  of  the  '  pounsons '  of  the  same, 
pursuant  to  a  statute  in  Parliament  at  Drougheda  before  the  king's  father 
Richard,  duke  of  York,  then  lieutenant  of  Ireland,  on  Friday  after  St. 
Blase,  38  Henry  YL,  and  to  make  the  same  within  the  town  of  Ghdwey; 
viz.  a  piece  of  silver  of  the  value  of  \d^  120  of  which  shall  go  to  the  pound 
troy,  of  which  one  shall  go  to  the  king  and  ^v^  to  himself  and  114  to  the 
merchants,  and  silver  pieces  of  the  value  of  2d,  and  \d,  in  like  manner,  and 
pieces  of  brass,  8  of  which  shall  be  of  the  value  of  \d.  He  also  has  power 
to  make  pieces  of  brass  or  copper,  4  of  which  shall  be  of  the  value  of  !</., 
^  to  be  enprented  with  a  figure  of  a  bysshop  hede  and  a  scripture  of  this 
'  word  Pcttrik  aboute  the  same  hede  on  the  one  side  and  with  a  crosse  with 
*  this  woord  SalvcUor  therboute  on  the  other  side.'  The  coins  may  vary 
from  the  standard  by  6  pennyweights  in  every  pound  troy,  which  variance 
shall  be  called  '  remedy '  for  him,  but  he  shall  reforge  defective  coins.  He 
shall  receive  10  marks  yearly  from  the  profits  of  the  said  moneys,  and  shall 
make  a  privy  sign  on  every  piece  of  silver,  and  shall  have  power  to  make 
necessary  instruments  where  he  will  and  to  take  labourers.  All  merchants 
shall  have  free  entry  and  issue  into  and  out  of  any  of  the  said  castles  or 
town.  And  he  shall  have  freedoms,  liberties  and  usages  as  the  master  of 
the  mint  in  the  Tower  of  London  has.    English,  By  K. 

Sept.  9.         Appointment,  during  good  behaviour,  of  John  Broke  as  one  of  the  auditors 

Bristol.       of  the  duchy  of  Comwi^l,  receiving  the  accustomed  fees  at  the  hands  of  the 

receiver  general  of  the  duchy.  By  pj«. 

Sept.  9.  Grant  for  life  to  John  Don,  one  of  the  ushers  of  the  kiner's  chamber, 

Malmesbury.  of  the  offices  of  captain  and  constable  of  the  king's  castle  of  Aburstwith, 
constable  of  his  castle  of  Kermerdyn,  walstote  of  the  commotes  of  Widigata 
and  Elvet,  co.  Kermerdyn,  and  sheriff  of  the  counties  of  Kermerdyn  and 
Cardigan  in  South  Wales,  receiving  the  usual  fees  at  the  hands  of  the 
king's  chamberlain  of  South  Wales,  with  all  profits  of  pasture  of  Aburst- 
with and  the  custom  called  '  Frysemayse,'  in  the  same  manner  as  John 
Griff,'  knight,  or  Edmund  Beauford,  late  duke  of  Somerset,  late  severally 
captain  and  constable  of  the  castle  of  Aturstwith,  or  the  said  duke  or 
other  holders  of  the  other  offices  had.  By  K. 

Appointment,  during  pleasure,  of  Bichard  Fowler  as  general  receiver 
of  all  lordships,  manors,  lands  and  rents,  late  of  John,  earl  of  Shrewsbury, 
in  the  counties  of  Derby,  Salop,  Stafford,  Chester,  Gloucester,  Buckingham, 
and  Wilts,  and  elsewhere  in  England,  receiving  a  fee  to  be  agreed  upon 
with  the  treasurer  of  England.  By  bill  of  treasurer. 

July  1.  Pardon  to  Richard  Fenys,  knight,  lord  Dacre,  and  Joan  his  wife,  of  all 
Westminster,  trespasses  committed  by  them  in  entering  on  any  castles,  lordships,  manors, 
lands,  rents,  knight's  fees,  advowsons,  etc.  late  of  Thomas  Dacre,  knight, 
lord  Dacre,  grandfather  of  the  said  Joan,  who  is  his  heir,  in  the  counties 
of  Cumberland,  Westmoreland,  Northumberland,  and  Lincoln,  before 
30  June.  By  p.8. 

July  26.         Presentation  of  Thomas  Sparowe,  chaplain,  to  the  parish    church  of 
Westminster.  St  Laurence,  Rysyng  Castell,  in  the  diocese  of  Norwich,  void  by  resignation 
cf  Robert  Frcrebr,  chaplain. 


1  EDWARD  IV.— Part  H. 


41 


24i61.  Membrane  25 — cant, 

Oct.  13.  Grant,  daring  tbe  minority  of  the  heir,  to  the  king's  servant  Fulk  Spren- 

Westmiiuter.  cheaux,  esquire,  of  the  offices  of  steward  of  the  loidahip  of  Oorsham,  the 
forest  of  Cle,  and  the  chase  of  the  park  of  Ernystre,  with  the  constableship 
of  the  said  castle  and  receiver  of  all  lands,  lordships  and  manors  within 
the  said  castle  and  lordships  late  of  John  Talbot,  earl  of  Sheresbary,  with 
the  accustomed  fees.  By  p.8. 


Sept.  6. 
Bristol 


Sept  5. 
Bristol. 

Sept.  24. 
Westminster. 


Sept..  10. 
Westminster. 


Aug.  8. 
Windsor. 

Sept.  8. 
Bristol 

Oct.  2. 
Westminster. 


Oct  9. 
Westminster. 


MSMBRANS  24. 

Grant  in  frank  almoin  to  Christopher,  the  abbot,  and  the  convent  of 
St.  Mary's,  Trym,  in  the  diocese  of  Meath,  of  the  king's  two  water-mills  of 
Trym,  with  weirs,  fisheries,  conduits,  and  other  appurtenances,  and 
wood  in  the  king's  park  of  Trym  for  the  repair  of  the  same,  with  the 
usual  customs  and  services  of  the  tenants  of  the  king's  manor  of  Trym, 
to  find  a  wax  light  burning  continually  iu  their  church  before  the  image 
of  the  Virgin  and  Ave  others  at  the  times  of  mass  and  antiphon  after 
vespers  for  the  honour  of  God  and  the  good  estate  of  the  king  and 
Cicely  his  mother  and  his  heirs,  and  the  souls  of  his  progenitors  and  himself. 

By  p.8.  for  ^  mark  paid  in  the  hanaper* 

Ratification  of  the  estate  which  Henry  Sever  has  in  the  chancellorship 
of  St  Paul's,  London,  and  the  deanery  of  Brigenorth,  co.  Salop.         By  K. 

Appointment  for  life  of  Thomas  Burgh,  esquire,  as  one  of  the  esquires 
of  the  body,  receiving  50  marks  yearly  from  2  April  last  from  the  issues 
of  the  lordship  of  Kirton  in  Lyndesey,  co.  Lincoln,  at  the  hands  of  the 
sheri£F.  By  p.s. 

Inspeximtu  and  confirmation  to  John,  now  abbot,  and  the  canons  of  St. 
Augustine,  Grimesbi,  of  a  charter  of  Henry  11.  dated  at  Westminster 
{Monasticon)^  being  a  grant  to  the  abbot  and  convent,  in  furtherance  of  a 
grant  of  Henry  L,  of  the  site  of  the  abbey  of  Welhou,  the  churches  of  St. 
James  in  Grimesby,  Cle,  Teteney,  Hotoft,  Biebi  and  Catebi,  and  lands  and 
liberties  in  New  Grimesby  of  Wast,  Leisebi,  Grimesbi,  Teteney  and 
Humbrestan.  For  20f.  paid  in  the  hanaper. 

Greneral  pardon  to  Richard  Bidelesgate,  late  of  Tyverton,  co.  Devon, 
^  gentilman.'  By  K. 

Grant  of  letters  of  denization  to  Moses  Counteryng,  merchant  and 
burgess  of  Bristol.  By  K.  for  40;.  paid  in  the  hanaper. 

Revocation  of  protection,  with  clause  volumus^  for  one  year,  granted  13 
August  by  letters  patent  to  John  de  Concistorio,  merchant  of  Spain, 
*  Spaynard,'  staying  on  the  king's  service  in  the  company  of  Walter  Blount, 
king's  knight,  treasurer  of  Calais,  for  the  safe-custody,  defence  and  victual- 
ling of  the  town  and  marches,  as  it  appears  by  certificate  of  the  sheriff  that 
he  stays  in  the  city  and  suburbs  of  London  on  his  own  business. 

Grant,  during  pleasure,  to  Robert  Radclyf  of  the  office  of  admiral  of 
Norfolk  and  Suffolk  and  the  coasts  of  the  same,  with  the  accustomed  fees. 

By  p.s. 


Membrane  23. 

Aug.  4.  Grant  to  the  king's  servant  Thomas  Yonge,  late  of  Bristol,  of  116/.  I3s.  Ad. 

Westminster,  from  the  first  moneys  of  the  first  moiety  of  the  tenth  granted  by  the  clergy 

of  the  province  of  Canterbury  in  the  diocese  of  Bath   and  Wells,  in 

repayment  of  the  same  sum  lent  by  him  to  the  king.  By  p.s. 

Mandate  in  pursuance  to  the  collectors  of  the  said  moiety. 


42  CALENDAR  OF  PATENT  BOLLS. 


1461.  Membrane  23— con^. 

July  20.         Gbant,  daring  good  behavioar,  to  the  king's  servant  William  Tamonr  of 

Westmtiuter.  the  office  of  ganger  of  the  town  of  Sandwich,  with  fees  as  in  the  times  of 

Edward  III.  and  Richard  II.  By  p.s. 

Aug.  4.  Appointment  for  life  of  Master  Henry  Trevylyan,  king's  derk,  as  master 

Westminster,  or  warden  of  the  house,  or  hospital,  of  St.  Katharine  by  the  Tower  of 

London.  By  pji. 

Grant  for  life  to  the  king's  servant  Richard  Browne  of  the  custody  of 

the  king's  meadow  and  woods  called  ^  Wycombe  Medewe '  and  '  Wycombe 

WoddeSy'  CO.  Buckingham,  with  the  accustomed  fees.  By  p.s. 

July  25.         The  like  to  Edward  Kyngdon,  one  of  the  yeomen  of  the  crown,  of  6d. 

Westminster,  daily  for  his  fee  from  4  March  last  from  the  fee  farm  of  the  town  of 

Bridport.  By  K. 

Mandate  in  pursuance  to  the  mayor,  bailiffs  and  other  officers  of  the  said 

town. 

Aug.  6.  Grant  for  life  to  William  Apprice  of  the  office  of  parker  of  the  king's 

Westminster,  park  of  Alton,  co.  Stafford,  wi&  fees  as  in  the  times  of  Edward  III.  and 

Richard  II.  By  p.s. 

Aug.  3.  Grant  to  Eleanor  late  the  wife  of  Henry,  earl  of  Northumberland,  of  the 
Westminster,  manors  of  Topclyff,  co.  York,  Bukden  and  Strebotell  with  appurtenances 
in  Langstorough,  and  the  manors  of  Poklyngton  and  Semar  to  the  value 
of  200/.  yearly  from  the  death  of  the  said  earl,  until  provision  shall  be 
made  to  her  to  the  same  amount  from  his  lands,  which  have  not  yet  been 
extended.  By  p.6. 

Aug.  6.  Grant  for  life  to  John,  duke  of  Suffolk,  and  Elizabeth  his  wife  of  the 

Westminster,  offices  of  constable  of  Walyngfonl  with  the  stewardship  of  the  honours  of 
Walyngford  and  St.  Waldric  and  the  four  and  a  half  hundreds  of  Chilteme, 
receiving  40/.  yearly  for  themselves  and  40/.  yearly  for  their  lieutenant  at 
the  hands  of  the  receiver  of  Walyngford,  in  the  same  manner  as  William, 
late  duke  of  Suffolk,  father  of  the  said  John,  did.  By  p.s. 

Aug.  2.         The  like  to  William  Herbert,  esquire,  of  the  office  of  constable  of  the 
Westmmster.    king's  castle  of  Cardigan,  co.  Cardigan,  in  South  Wales,  receiving  the  same 
wages  as  Giles  Thornton,  esquire,  late  constable,  had  from  the  issues  of  the 
county  of  Cardigan  at  the  hands  of  the  king's  chamberlain  of  Eermerdyn. 

By  p.8. 

July  25.  Exemption  for  life  of  Greoffirey  Boleyne,  alderman  of  London,  for  his  good 
Westminster,  service  to  the  king's  father,  from  being  put  on  assizes,  juries,  inquisitions, 
attaints  or  recognisances  and  from  being  made  trier  of  them,  taxer,  collector 
or  assessor  of  customs,  taxes,  tallages,  fifteenths,  tenths  or  other  subsidies, 
knight,  mayor,  sheriff,  escheator,  commissioner,  constable,  bailiff  or  other 
officer  or  minister  of  the  king  against  his  will.  By  p.s. 

Aug.  8.         Grant  for  life  to  John   Merston,  knight,  of   a  tenement   called   *  le 
Windsor,      ledenporche'    in    London    in  the  parish  of  St.   Martin  Orgar    and  in 
'  Crokedlane,'  which  he  had  previously  agreed  with  the  treasurer  of  England 
to  lease  for  20  years,  without  rendering  anything.  By  p.s. 

Grant  to  the  said  John  of  20  marks  yearly  from  the  manor  of  Wappeston, 
CO.  Surrey,  until  he  or  his  wife  or  executors  shall  be  satisfied  of  107/.  due 
to  him  from  the  earl  of  Pembroke.  By  p.s. 

Aug.  9.  Grant,  during  pleasure,  to  the  king's  servant  Bichard  Croft  the  younger 

Westminster,  of  the  office  of  receiver  of  all  manors,  lands  and  other  possessions  late  of 

John,  earl  of  Shrewsburv,  in  the  counties  of  Gloucester  and  Hereford, 

receiving  the  accustomed  fees  and  also  10  marks  yearly  from  the  issues  of 

tlie  same.  By  p.s. 


1  EDWARD  IV.— Pabt  II. 


43 


July  25. 
WestmiiiBter. 


Sept.  4. 
Bristol. 


Sept.  7. 
Bristol. 


July  26. 
Westminster. 


Sept.  4. 
Bnstol. 


1461,  Membrane  22. 

Sept.  6.         Grant  for  life' to  the  king's  servant  Bichard  Patyne,  fw  his  good  service 

Bristol.       to  the  king's  father,  of  the  office  of  porter  and  gaoler  of  the  king's  castle  of 

GKlf ord,  CO.  Surrey,  with  the  accustomed  fees.  By  p.s. 

The  like  to  Thomas  Treffry,  esquire,  of  10  marks  yearly  at  the  exchequer 

of  Lostwithiell,  co.  Cornwall.  By  p.s. 

The  like  to  William  Horde,  esquire.  By  p.s. 

Grant  for  life  to  John  Yonge,  one  of  the  yeomen  of  the  crown,  of  6d, 
daily  for  his  fee  from  4  March  last  from  the  fee  farm  of  the  town  of 
Colchester.  By  K. 

Mandate  in  pursuance  to  the  men  or  bailifis  of  the  said  town. 

Grant  for  life  to  the  king's  servant  John  Moile,  for  his  good  service  to 
the  king's  father,  of  an  annuity  of  10  marks  at  the  hands  of  the  receiver  of 
the  ezdiequer  of  Dynbigh.  By  p%8. 

The  like  to  Robert  Park,  one  of  the  king's  yeomen  purveyors  of  ale,  of 
tlie  office  of  ganger  of  the  ports  of  Bristol,  with  the  accustomed  fees. 

By  p.s. 

The  like  to  Boger  Kelshall«  one  of  (lie  yeomen  of  the  crown,  of  6^.  daily 
for  his  fee  from  4  March  last  from  the  fee  faim  of  the  city  or  town  of 
Norwich.  By  K. 

Mandate  in  pursuance  to  the  mayor,  guardians,  citizens,  keepers,  sheriffs^ 
officers,  bailiffs  or  others  of  the  said  city  or  town. 

Grant  for  life  to  William  Porter,  one  of  the  yeomen  of  the  crown,  of  the 
office  of  balistar  within  the  Tower  of  London,  receiving  the  accustomed 
fees  from  the  issues  of  the  counties  of  Warwick  and  Leicester. 

By  p.8.  [378]. 

The  like  to  the  kin^s  servitor  James  Hatvele  of  the  office  of  purveyor 
for  the  works  of  the  king's  manor  of  Eltham,  co.  Kent,  from  Easter  last, 
with  the  same  fees  as  Robert  Ketylwell  had  from  the  issues  of  the  manor ; 
and  appointment  of  him  as  above  as  purveyor  and  clerk  of  the  works  of  the 
king's  manor  of  Grenewiche,  co.  Kent,  receiving  the  same  fees  as  the  said 
Robert  Ketilwell  did  in  the  year  38  Henry  VI.  from  the  issues  of  the 
manor.  By  p.s. 

General  pardon  to  Richard  Assheton,  abbot  of  Peterborough,  co. 
Nortihampton.  By  p.s. 

Grant,  during  pleasure,  to  William  Herbert  of  Herbert,  knight,  of  the 
office  of  steward  of  the  castle  and  lordship  of  Breknok  and  all  other 
possessions  late  of  Humphrey,  duke  of  Buckingham,  in  South  Wales,  in 
the  king's  hands  by  reason  of  the  minority  of  Henry,  son  and  heir  of 
Humphrey,  son  and  heir  of  the  said  duke,  receiving  the  accustomed  fees 
from  the  issues  of  the  same.  By  K 

Grant  for  life  to  the  paid  William  of  the  offices  of  steward  and  receiver 
of  the  king's  castle,  manor  and  lordships  of  Cleford,  Glasebury  and 
Wjrnf  urton  in  the  marches  of  Wales,  with  the  accustomed  fees.         By  p.s. 

Grant,  during  pleasure,  to  Thomas  ap  Roeser  Vaughan,  esquire,  of  the 
office  of  receiver  of  the  lordships  of  Breghnok,  Hay  and  Huntyngdon  in 
Wales,  in  the  king's  hands  by  reason  of  the  death  of  Humphrey,  duke  of 
Buckingham,  and  the  minority  of  Henry,  his  kinsman  and  heir,  receiving 
the  accustomed  fees.  By  K. 

Ghrant  for  life  to  James  Pemberton,  groom  of  the  king's  chamber,  of  the 
offices  of  keeper  of  the  king's  park  and  garden  of  his  manor  of  Eltham,  co. 
Kent,  from  the  first  day  of  the  reign,  with  all  fees,  profits  and  revenues  of 
the  manor.  By  p.s. 

Membrane  21. 

Aug.  8.         Appointment  of  Ralph  Wolseley  and  John  Crafton  as  receivers  of  all 
We«tmintter.  moneys  from  all  manors  and  lands  of  which  John,  lord  of  Lovell,  knight. 


Sept.  7. 
Bristol. 


Aug.  12. 
Westmioster. 


Sept.  8. 
Bristol. 


44  CALENDAR  OP  PATENT  BOLLS. 


X461.  Memhrane2\ — amt. 

was  seised,  or  anjooe  else  for  his  use,  in  the  connties  of  Cambridge,  Salop, 
and  Essex,  so  long  as  thej  remain  in  the  king*s  hands,  receiving  such  fees 
as  shall  seem  reasonable  to  the  treasorer  of  England. 

By  bill  of  the  treasurer. 

Aug.  8.  Grant  for  life  to  Bobert  Ogle,  knight,  of  the  o£Sces  of  steward  and 

Westminster,  constable  of  the  lordships  and  castles  of  Aunewyk,  Werkworth,  Purdowe, 

Bathebury,   Neuboume  and  Newbourne  Heven,  co.  Northumberland,  and 

all  other  manors  and  lands  late  of  Henry,  earl  of  Northumberland,  in  the 

same  county,  with  the  accustomed  fees  from  the  issues  of  the  same.     By  K. 

Aug.  9.  Grant,  during  good  behaviour,  to  William  Staverton  of  the  office  of  the 

Westminster,  custody  of  Crambourn  alias  the  balliage  of  Batelbailly  within  the  king's 

forest  of  Wyndesore,  with  the  accustomed  fees.  By  p.s. 

July  25.         Grant  for  life  to  John  Martyn,  one  of  the  yeomen  of  the  crown,  of  6c^. 
Westminster,  daily  for  his  fee  from  4  March  last  from  the  fee  farm  of  the  town  of 
Guldeford.  By  p.s. 

Mandate  in  pursuance  to  the  tenants  or  officers  of  the  said  town. 

Aug.  9.  Appointment,  during  pleasure,  of  the  same  John  Martyn  as  clerk  of  the 

Westminster,  works  of  the  castle  and  walls  of  the  king's  town  of  Calais  and  the  waters 

there,  receiving  the  same  fees  as  William  Morton  and  William  Knyght,  late 

holders  of  the  office,  from  the  issues  of  the  town  and  marches.  By  p.s. 

Aug.  5.  Grant  for  life  to  the  king's  servant  John  Penfoun  of  the  office  of  weigher 

Westmmster.  (tronataris)  of  tin  and  lead  in  the  counties  of  Devon  and  Cornwall,  with  the 

accustomed  fees  at  the  hands  of  the  receiver  general    of  the  duchy  of 

Cornwall.  By  p.s. 

Aug.  8.  The  like  to  Robert  Hadley  of  the  city  of  Coventry  of  all  lands  and 

More.         possessions  within  the  city  lately  belonging  to  John  Noif oik,  rebel,  by  grant 

of  Henry  VI.,  to  the  value  of  6  marks  yearly.  By  p.s. 

Aug.  9.  Grant  to  William  Canynges  of  Bristol  of  133/.  6s,  8d.  from  the  moneys 

Westminster,  arising  from  the  second  moiety  of  a  tenth  lately  granted  by  the  clergy  of 

the  province  of  Canterbury  in  the  diocese  of  Bath  and  Wells  and  200/. 

from  the  like  in  the  archdeaconry  of  Salisbury  and  Wills,  in  repayment  of 

500  marks  lent  by  him  to  the  king.  By  p.s. 

Aug.  11.  Appointment,  during  pleasure,  of  Robert  Ingleton  and  Thomas  Lardyner 
Westminster,  as  receivers  of  all  moneys  arising  from  all  manors  and  lands  late  of  William 
Bonevyle  of  Chuton,  knight,  deceased,  and  in  the  king's  hand  by  reason  of 
the  minority  of  Cicely  his  kinswoman  and  heiress  in  the  counties  of  Devon, 
Cornwall,  Somerset  and  Dorset,  receiving  the  same  fees  ns  they  had  in  the 
lifetime  of  William.  By  K. 

Vacated  hy  surrender  hy  mandate  of  the  chancellor. 

Aug.  6.  Grant  for  life  to  William  Barley  of  the  office  of  keeper  of  the  gaol  of  the 

Westminster,  king's  castle  of  York,  with  the  accustomed  fees.  By  p.s. 

The  like  to  the  said  William  of  the  office  of  porter  of  the  same.     By  p.s. 

Aug.  10.         The  like  to  the  king's  servant  Richard  Crofte  the  younger,  esquire,  of  the 
Westminster,  whole  office  of  the  parkership  of  the  king's  park  of  Wodestocke,  co.  Oxford, 
with  fees  as  in  the  times  of  Edward  III.  from  the  issues  of  the  manor. 

By  pji. 

The  like  to  the  said  Richard  of  the  office  of  controller  of  the  manor  of 

Wodestocke. 

The  like  to  him  of  the  office  of  porter  of  the  park.  By  p.s. 

The  like  to  the  king's  servant  Richard  Croft  the  elder^  esquire,  of  20 

marks  sterling  yearly  from  the  fee  farm  of  the  city  of  Worcester.        By  K, 

Aug.  8.  Inspeximus  and  confirmation  of  letters  patent  of  the  king's  father  Richard, 

Westminster,  duke  of  York,  dated  at  Beaudeley  Manor,  15  October,  25  Henry  VI.,  con- 
firming a  grant  by  William  Ainewyk,  bishop  of  Lincoln,  John,  viscount 
Heaumont,  Ralph,  lord  Cromwell,  knight,  Ralph  Boteller,  knight,  lord  of 


1  EDWARD  IV.— Pabt  II.  45 


1461.  Membrane  21 — cotU. 

Sudelej,  Walter,  lord  Hnngerford,  knight,  John  Fastolf,  knight,  Nicholas 
Dixon,  clerk,  and  Robert  Darcj,  OBquIre,  dated  1  October,  25  Henry  YI., 
to  John  Fleggo,  esquire,  and  Agatha  his  wife,  Thomas,  lord  Scales,  William 
Bourchier,  knight,  William  Oldehalle,  knight,  Edmund  Mulso,  knight,  John 
Barre,  knight,  and  Benedict  Burgh,  clerk,  of  the  manors  of  Noruunbrigge 
and  Latch elejhalle  alia*  Latcheleyheje,  oo.  Essex,  for  the  lives  of  John 
and  Agatha.  Bj  p.s.  and  for  3Cf.  paid  in  the  hanaper. 

Membrane  20. 

Aug.  12.         Grant  in  fee  simple  to  Joan,  wife  of  John  Penycok,  of  all  lands  and 
WestisiiiBter.  tenements  of  which  she  and  her  husband  were  seised  in  her  right.      By  p.s. 

Aug.  12.         Grant  to  Walter  Devereux  of  Ferrers  and  William  Herbert  of  Herbert, 

Westminster,  knights,  of  authority  to  receive  submissive  rebels  in  Wales  into  the  king's 

peace,  any  lords  and  John  Skydmore,  Thomas  Oornewayle,  and  Thomas 

FitzHarry  excepted.  By  K. 

Aug.  15.        Grant  for  life  to  Thomas  Ive,  one  of  the  clerks  of  the  crown  of  Chancery, 
Westminster,  of  10/.  yearly  from  the  issues  of  the  hundred  of  Rocheford,  oo.  Essex. 

By  p.s. 
Mandate  in  pursuance  to  the  receivers  of  the  hundred. 

May  7.  Grant  for  life  to  the  king's  kinsman  Richard,  earl  of  Warwick,  of  the 

Middleham.  office  of  constable  of  the  king's  castle  of  Dover  and  all  rents  and  services 
called  *•  castelwarde,'  and  herbage  and  advowsons  pertaining  to  the  same, 
and  the  wardenship  of  the  Cinque  Forts  and  all  forfeitures, '  shares,'  wreck  of 
sea  and  other  profits ;  and  also  300/.  yearly  for  the  sustenance  of  himself 
and  priests,  servants,  watchmen  and  other  officers  there,  in  the  same  manner 
as  Humphrey,  late  duke  of  Gloucester,  viz.  146/.  from  the  wards  pertaining 
to  the  castle  and  154/.  from  the  fee  farm  of  the  town  of  Southampton. 

By  other  letters  patent. 

May  7.  The  like  to  the  said  earl  of  the  offices  of  steward  of  the  manor  or  lordship 

Middleham.    of  Fekenham,  co.  Worcester,  and  master  forester  and  rider  of  the  king's 

forest  of  Fekenham  with  the  custody  of  the  king's  park  of  Fekenham  and 

the  stank  tliere,  with  the  accustomed  fees.  By  other  letters  patent. 

May  7.  The  like  to  the  said  earl  of  the  office  of  master  of  the  king's  mews  and 

Middleham.  falcons  and  a  messuage  called  '  le  Mewehous '  at  Charryng  by  Westminster, 
00.  Middlesex,  with  all  houses  and  other  profits  pertaining  to  the  same,  in 
the  same  manner  as  John,  duke  of  Bedford,  deceased ;  and  appointment  of 
him  to  take  the  king's  right  prises  of  falcons,  goshawks,  sakers,  sakrets, 
lanners,  lannerets  and  ger-&lcons  sold  within  the  realm,  paying  the 
accustomed  price,  viz.  20«.  for  a  falcon,  10«.  for  a  tercelet  gentle,  13^.  ic/.  for 
a  goshawk,  and  6s,  Sd.  for  each  tercel  of  goshawk,  saker,  lanner  oi'  lanneret. 

By  other  letters  patent. 

May  7.  Appointment  for  life  of  the  said  earl  as  great  chamberlain  of  England, 

Middleham.    with  the  accastomed  fees.  By  other  letters  patent. 

Aug.  12.         Grant  to  the  king's  kinsman,  John,  duke  of  Norfolk,  and  the  heirs  male 
Westminster,  of  his  body  of  40  marks  yearly  from  the  issues  cf  the  counties  of  Norfolk 
and  Southampton,  in  lieu  of  a  like  grant  at  the  Exchequer  to  his  grand- 
father Thomas,  earl  of  Notyngham  and  marshal  of  England,  by  letters 
patent  dated  29  September,  21  Richard  IL,  creating  him  duke  of  Norfolk. 

By  p.s. 
Vacated  because  on  the  Charter  Roll  far  this  year, 

Aug.  12.         Grant  to  Richard  Suthwell,  esquire,  servant  of  John,  duke  of  Norfolk,  of 
Westmmster.  20  marks  yearly  from  the  issues  of  the  subsidy  and  ulnage  of  doth  in  the 
county  of  Suffolk,  until  he  shall  be  provided  for  life  with  an  office  with  fees 
to  that  value.  By  p.s 

Mandate  in  pursuance  to  the  collectors  of  the  subsidy  and  ulnage. 


46  CALENDAR  OF  PATENT  BOLLS. 


1461.  Mmirane  20~-c<mt. 

Aug.  1.         Grant  to  James  Thekenease,  chaplain,  of  a  chantry  within  the  caeile  of 
WestmiiistBr.  Chester,  void  bj  the  death  of  John  Thometon,  chapbin.  By  K. 

Mmmbrawm  19. 

July  29.         Intpeximus  and  confirmation  in  mortmain  to  the  master  or  warden  and 
Westminster.  schobuB  of  the  college  of  Valence  Marie,  commonly  called  Pembrokehally 
in  Cambridge,  of  the  f ollowinic : — 

1.  Letters  patent  dated  16  February,  18  Henry  VI.,  being  a  grant  to 

them  (1)  of  the  alien  priory  of  Lynton  with  the  adyowson  of  the 
vicarage  there  at  the  expiration  of  ten  years  from  Easter  last,  for 
which  time  the  king  granted  the  custody  of  it  on  19  July  to  Henry 
Fylyngley  and  William  Cotton  at  a  rent  of  33/.  6«.  8J.  yearly,  subject 
to  a  payment  of  20/.  yearly  for  life  to  the^king's  uncle  Humphrey,  duke 
of  Gloucester,  in  accordance  with  letters  patent  dated  14  July  ;  and 
(2)  of  a  yearly  pension  of  6/.  13#.  4d.  in  frank  almoin,  which  the 
abbot  of  Sawtre  used  to  render  to  the  alien  abbot  of  Bon  Bepos 
{de  Bona  Requie)  for  the  church  of  Folboume,  on  the  death  of  the  said 
duke,  to  whom  the  same  was  granted  for  life  by  the  same  letters  patent. 

2.  Letters  patent  dated  4  May,  18  Henry  VI.,  being  a  grant  to  them  in 

frank  almoin,  in  lieu  of  U:e  said  pension,  of  a  yearly  pension  of 
28/.  13#.  4c/.,  which  the  abbot  of  Ilewley  used  to  render  to  the  alien 
abbot  of  Pynne  for  the  church  of  Saham  or  tenements  in  Saham  near 
Ely,  on  the  death  of  the  said  duke,  to  whom  the  same  was  granted 
for  life  by  the  same  letters  patent.         For  209.  paid  in  the  hanaper. 

July  20.  Grant,  during  the  minority  of  the  heir,  to  the  king's  servant  Bichard 

Westminster.    Artor  of  the  custody  of  all  lands  late  of  Bobert  Ken  in  the  county  of 

Somerset,  deceased,  tenant  in  chief,  with  the  marriage  of  John  his  son  and 

heir,  and  so  from  heir  to  heir  should  he  die  during  minority ;  rendering 

46/.  17x.  yearly  of  which  26/.  are  granted  to  him  as  ^  regard.' 

Oct,  2  5.         Grant,  during  pleasure,  to  ihe  king's  servant  Bichard  Lannargh,  harbinger 

Westminster,  (vianus)^  for  his  good  service  to  the  king^s  father,  of  the  office  of  bailiff 

errant  in  the  county  of  Cornwall,  which  he  lately  held  of  the  grant  of  the 

king's  father,  with  the  accustomed  fees.  By  K.  by  word  of  mouth. 


Mbmbrane  18. 

July  8.  Appointment  for  life  of  Thomas  Montgomery,  knight,  as  steward  of  the 

Westminster,  king's  manor  or  lordship  of  Haveryng  at  Bower,  co.  Essex,  with  fees  as  in 
the  last  year  of  Edward  IH.  and  the  first  of  Bichard  11. 

July  11.         The  like  of  the  king's  kinsman  John,  duke  of  Norfolk,  as  chief  justice  in 

Westminster,  eyre  and  steward  and  chief  keeper  of  the  forests  on  this  side  Trent  and 

master  of  the  king's  hunt  there,  with  the  accustomed  fees.  By  E. 

July  17.  Inspeximw  and  confirmation  of  letters  patent  of  the  king's  father 

Westnunster.  Bichard,  duke  of  York,  dated  at  London^  14  November,  39  Henry  VI., 

being  a  grant  for  life  to  his  servant  Bichard  Fitz  WiUiam,  esquire,  for  his 

good  service  to  himself  and  his  son  Edward,  earl  of  March,  of  a  yearly  rent 

of  20  marks  from  the  issues  of  his  lordships  in  the  county  of  York. 

For  26«.  8c/.  paid  in  the  hanaper. 

June  14.         6K*aDt  for  life  to  Master  John  Walter,  clerk,  of  the  custody  of  the  king's 

Westminster,  hospital  of  St.   Leonard,  Leycestre,  void  by  the  death  of  Master  Bobert 

Matf  ene.  By  K. 

Aug.  1.  The  like  to  the  king's  servitor  Bichard  Gylmyn  that  he  be  one  of  the 

Westniniier.  king's  Serjeants  at  arms,  receiving  12c^.  daily  ^m  the  issues  (^  the  city  of 


1  EDWARD  IV.— Part  H.  47 


1461.  Membrane  l^-^cowt. 

London  and  the  county  of  Middlesex  and  a  livery  yearly  at  Christmas  of 
the  suit  of  other  Serjeants  at  arms  at  the  great  wardxt)be.  By  p.8. 

Ang.  14.        The  like  lo  the  king's  servitor  William  Hendelee,  for  his  good  service  to 

WestminBter.  the  king's  father,  of  the  office  of  chief  serjeanty  within  the  liberty  of  Methe 

in  Ireland,  with  the  accustomed  fees.  By  p.s. 

Sept.  23.        Grant,  during  pleasure,  to  John  Herlewyn,  esquire,  of  the  office  of  keeper 

Westminster,  of  the  king's  forest  of  Whitelwode,  co.  Northampton,  with  the  accustomed 

fees.  By  p.s. 

June  30.  Grant  for  life  to  Ralph  Hastynges,  esquire  of  the  body,  of  the  office  of 
WestnuDster.  the  custody  of  the  king's  lions,  lionesses  and  leopards  within  the  Tower  of 
London,  from  Easter  last,  and  two  plots  in  the  Tower  for  the  animals  and 
their  keeper,  receiving  \2iL  daily  for  wages  and  6d.  daily  for  the  sustenance 
of  the  animals  from  the  issues  of  the  city  of  London.  The  chancellor  shall 
from  tune  to  time  enquire  into  their  number.  By  p.s. 

Oct.  5.  The  like  to  Thomas  Gray,  esquire,  of  a  yearly  rent  of  40/.  from  the 

Westminster,  issues  of  the  town  of  Cambridge.  By  K. 

July  26.         The  like  to  William  Lye,  one  of  the  yeomen  of  the  crown,  of  6<f.  daily 

Westminster,  for  his  fee  from  4  March  last  from  the  fee  farm  of  the  city  or  town  of 

Norwich.  By  K 

Aug.  18.        G^rant  to  the  king's  servitor  and  chaplain  Master  John  Tapton  of  the 

Horsenden.    deanery  of  the  cathedral  of  St.  Asaph,  in  the  same  manner  as  the  last 

incumbent  held  it.  By  p.s. 

Aug.  7.         Appointment,  daring  pleasure,  of  Henry  Leyc'  as  receiver  and  surveyor 
Mrindsor.      of  all  manors,  lordships  and  lands  late  of  James,  earl  of  Wilts,  in  the  coun- 
ties of  Worcester,  Warwick,  Salop,  Hereford,  Gloucester,  Stafford,  Leicester, 
Buckingham  and  Oxford,  with  such  fees  as  he  had  from  the  said  earl. 

By  bill  of  the  treasurer  of  England. 

Ang.  1.  Mandate  to  all  bailiflb  and    others  to    permit  John    Bede,    bom  at 

Westminster.  Dunglasse  in  Scotland  and  resident  at  Boston  in  England,  who  has  taken  oath 
of  fealty,  to  inhabit  the  realm  peaceably  and  enjoy  his  goods. 

Nov.  14.         Grant  for  life  to  William  Middilton,  esquire,  of  the  office  of  constable  of 

Westminster,   the  king's  castle  of  Bichemond,  with  tJie  accustomed  fees  from  the  issues  of 

the  lor&hip  of  Bichemond.  By  p.s. 

Sept.  15.         Grant,  during  good  behaviour,  to  Thomas  Bay  en  of  the  Chancery  of  the 

Westminster,   office  of  under-clerk  of  Parliament,  in  the  same  manner  as  John  de  Scarde- 

burgh,  under-clerk  of  Parliament  of  Richard  II.,  receiving  100«.  yearly  from 

Eastor  last  from  the  issues  of  the  counties  of  Surrey  and  Sussex.        By  p.s. 


Mmmbranm  17. 

May  11.  Licence  for  Greorge,  bishop  of  Exeter,  and  Richard  Nevyll,  earl  of 
York.  Wanvick,  to  found  a  college,  to  be  called  die  college  of  St.  William,  York, 
for  the  chantry  priests  of  ^e  cathedral  of  York,  one  of  whom  is  to  be 
provost  of  the  same ;  and  for  the  dean  and  chapter  of  the  cathedral  to  grant 
knds  and  tenements  in  the  city  to  the  provost  and  fellows  of  the  college,  and 
for  the  acquisition  in  mortmain  by  the  latter  of  lands  to  the  value  of  100/. 
yearly;  with  other  ordinances  and  privil^es.  [Partly  printed  in 
MonasticonJ]  By  K. 

Nov.  2.  Ghrant  for  life  to  Ralph  Batson,  yeoman  of  the  crown,  of  6d,  daily  for  his 

Westminster,  fee  from  4  March  last  from  the  issues  of  the  subsidy  and  ulnage  of  cloth 
and  a  moiety  of  the  forfeiture  of  the  same  in  the  county  of  Gloucester. 

ByK 


48  CALENDAB  OF  PATENT  BOLLS. 


1461.  Membrane  17 — cant. 

Nov.  10.        Inspeximut  and  confirmation  to  the  pri<xr  and  convent  of  Neustede  in 
WMtminiter.   Shirewode  of  the  following  :— 

1.  Jjettera  patent  dated  5  Febrnarj,  25  Edward  III.,  being  a  grant  to 

the  snb^prior  and  convent  of  the  custodj  of  the  priorj  daring  void- 
ance,  saving  to  the  crown  knights'  fees  and  advowsons. 

2.  Letters  patent  dated  1  Jnlj,  16  Richard  U.,  being  agrant  to  them 

of  a  tan  of  wine  yearly  in  the  port  of  Kjmgeston-on-Hnll. 

For  2&.  8J.  paid  in  the  hanaper. 

Jnly  20.         Grant  for  life  to  Edward  Hargille,  one  of  the  yeomen  of  the  crown,  of  the 
Wflitmiiurter.  offices  of  parker  of  the  king's  park  of  Flemantell  and  ranger  of  the  forest 
of  Wulmere  and  Alisholt,  co.  Soathampton^  from  6  March  last,  with  fees  as 
in  the  times  of  Edward  IIL  and  Bichard  II.  fr6m  the  issues  of  the  county. 

By  p.s. 

Vacated  by  surrender  and  canteUedj  so  far  as  the  rangership  is  con* 
cemedy  because  the  office  was  granted  to  him  otherwise  by  letters  patent^ 
14  Mayy  6  Edward  IF. 

Membrane  16. 

July  25.         Grant  for  life  to  Thomas  Bobert,  one  of  the  yeomen  of  the  crown,  of  6J. 

WestmiiiBter.  daily  for  his  fee  from  4  March  last  from  the  fee  farm  of  the  town  of 

Northampton.  By  K. 

Sept.  8.  The  like  to  Adam  Goddall,  one  of  the  yeomen  of  the  crown,  of  6J.  daily 

Westminster,  for  his  fee  from  6  March  last  from  the  issues  of  the  county  of  Stafford. 

By  p.8. 

Oct  18.         The  like  to  John  Langford,  one  of  the  yeomen  of  the  crown,  of  the  office 

Westminster,  of  ranger  of  the  king's  forest  of  Waltham,  from  4  March  last,  receiving  the 

accustomed  fees  from  the  issues  of  the  counties  of  £ssex  and  Hertford,  in  the 

same  manner  as  Thomas  Croydon  in  the  time  of  Edward  III.  By  K. 

Aug.  13.  The  like  to  John  Fogge,  knight,  that  he  shall  hold  without  rent  a  mes- 
[Woodstock,  suage  or  plot  called  '  Quene  Janes  warderobe '  by  Aldrichegate,  London, 
lately  held  at  farm  by  Henry  Percy,  knight,  earl  of  Northumberland  and 
lord  of  Ponyngesy  the  custody  of  which  with  12  tenements  annexed  and  2 
tenements  adjacent  on  the  south  was  granted  to  him  by  the  name  of  John 
Fogge,  esquire,  on  29  May  by  letters  patent,  suiTendered,  to  hold  for  10 
years  from  Christmas  last  by  the  extent  or  at  a  rent  to  be  agreed  upon 
with  the  treasurer  of  England.  By  p.s. 

Oct  20.  Appointment  of  Bichard  Foweler  and  William  Flette  to  collect  all  arrears 

Westminster,  and  rents  from  farmers  and  tenants  of  the  lordship  or  manor  of  Stoke,  co. 
Buckingham,  now  in  the  king's  hands,  and  deliver  them  to  the  king's 
mother  Cicely,  duchess  of  York,  for  her  own  use. 

Oct.  20.  Grant  for  life  to  the  king's  servitor  John  Hemyngburgh,  from  4  March 

We«tmimiter.  last,  of  the  custody  of  Morehay,  Westhay  and  Totnowe  and  the  rangership 

of  Clebailly  within  the  forest  of  Bokyngham,  co.  Northampton,  which  he 

had  of  the  grant  of  the  king's  father,  with  all  ^  brusing,'  pannage,  ^  wyndefall- 

yngwode '  and  other  fees  and  profits.  By  p.8. 

Oct.  17.  The  like  to  Bobert  Spaldyng  of  the  office  of  one  of  the  king's serjeants-at- 

Westminster.  arms  in  the  place  of  Alexander  Shefeld,  receiving  12 J.  wages  daily  from  the 

farm  of  the  city  of  London  and  Middlesex  with  a  livery  yearly  of  the  suit  of 

other  serjeants-at-arms  at  the  great  wardrobe.  By  K. 

Oct  29.         General  pardon  to  Boger  Thometon  of  Shaftesbury,  co.  Dorset^ '  yoman.' 
Westminster. 

Nov.  3.  Ratification  of  the  estate  which  John  Bate,  king's  clerk,  has  as  dean  of  the 

Westminster,   collegiate  church   of  Tamworth  and  prebendary  of  Wilmecote,   in  the 

diocese  of  Coventiy  and  Lichfield.  By  K. 


1  EDWAUD  IV^Pakt  IL  49 


1461*  Membrane  16— otm/. 

Nov.  2.  Grant  for  life  to  Richard  Oraforth,  yeoman  of  the  crown,  of  Qd.  daily  for 

Westmioster.  his    fee  from  4  March  last  from  the  issueft  of  the  sulisidy  and  ulnage 
of  cloth  with  a  moiety  of  the  forfeitures  in  the  county  of  Gloucester. 

ByK. 
Mandate  in  pursuance  to  the  farmers  of  the  subsidy  and  ulnage. 

Not.  2.  Grant  for  life  to  the  king's  servant  Arthur  Grayson  of  the  office  of  one 

Westminster,  of  the  king's  Serjeants  at  arms,  receiving  I2d,  daily  from  4  March  last  at 

the  hands  of  the  treasurer  and  chamberlains  of  the  Exchequer  and  a  livery 

yearly  at  Christmas  of  the  suit  of  other  Serjeants  at  arms  at  the  great 

wardrobe. 

By  p.s. 

Nov.  2.  The  like  to  Robert  Forsteyn,  citizen  and  stationer  of  London,  of  the 

Westminster,  office  of  king's  stationer,  with  the  accustomed  fees  and  a  robe  of  the  king's 
livery  yearly  at  the  great  wardrobe. 

Nov.  7.  The  like  to  the  king's  servants  John  Langelev  and  William  Mulso  of  the 

Westminster,   office  of  gentleman  falconer  and  under^keeper  of  the  king's  mews  and  falcons 

from  4  March  last,  with  wages  of  I2d.  dady  at  the  hands  of  the  treasurer  of 

the  household,  and  all  other  fees,  vestures  and  commodities.  By  K. 


MSMBRANB  15. 

Oct.  14.  Ifupeximus  and  confirmation  to  the  infirm  of  the  hospital  of  Herebaudon 

Westminster,  of  letters  patent  dated  12  October,  31  Edward  II£.,  being  an  exemplifica- 
tion of  letters  patent  dated  18  February,  23  Henry  III.,  granting  to  them 
20  marks  yearly  from  the  farm  of  the  city  of  Canterbury  in  lieu  of  the  same 
sum  at  the  Exchequer.  For  ^  mark  paid  in  the  hanaper. 

Oct.  16.         Grant  for  life  to  Robert  Swan  of  the  office  of  keeper  of  the  park  of 

Westminster.  Cawlech,  co.  Northumberland,  witl)  the  accustomed  wages  from  the  profits 

of  the  lordship  of  Awnwik  in  the  same  county.  By  K. 

Aug.  30.        The  like  to  John  Gyldeford,  esquire,  of  40  marks  yearly  from  the  issues 

Woodstock,    of  the  king's  manor  or  lordship  of  Middelton  and  the  hundreds  of  Middelton 

and  Merden,  co.  Kent.  By  p.s. 

Oct.  18.         General  pardon  to  Peter  de  Gaylard  of  the  island  of  Guernesey,  derk. 
Westminster.  By  ps. 

Aug.  10.        Grant  for  life  to  John  Bypon,  one  of  the  king's  yeomen  harbingers,  of 

Westminster,  the  office  of  parker  or  keeper  of  the  king's  park  of  Wytteley,  co.  Surrey, 

with  the  accustomed  fees.  By  p.s. 

Oct  19.         The  like  to  William  Porter,  one  of  the  yeomen  of  the  crown«  of  6d.  daily 

Westminster,  for  his  fee  from  4  March  last  from  the  fee  farm  of  the  city  of  London  and 

the  county  of  Middlesex.  By  p.s. 

Oct.  21.         The  like  to  Bichard  Jackson  of  the  office  of  porter  of  the  king's  castle  of 
Westminster.   Berkhampstede,  with  the  accustomed  fees.  By  p.s. 

July  22.         The  like  to  the  king's  servant  Thomas  Saintlegere  of  the  offices  of  con- 
Westminster,  troller,  changer  and  assayer  of  the  mint  and  coinage  of  gold  and  sUver  within 
the  Tower  of  London,  receiving  fees  as  in  the  times  of  Edward  III.  and 
Bichard  II.  from  the  farm  and  issues  of  the  counties  of  London  and 
Middlesex.  By  p.s. 

Oct.  24.  Pardon  to  Robert  Hjmkersell  late  of  Maunsfeld  in  Shirwod,  co.  Notting- 
Westminster.  ham, '  wright,'  of  his  outlavmr  in  the  county  of  Lincoln  for  not  appearing 
before  John  Pry  sot  and  his  fellows,  justices  of  the  Bench  in  the  late  reign, 
to  answer  Robert  Forster,  clerk,  for  leaving  his  service  at  Oagham  before 
the  term  agreed  upon,  he  having  surrendered  to  the  Flete  prison,  as  appears 
by  certificate  of  Robert  Danbv,  knight,  chief  justice. 

%    8S!I14.  D 


50  CALENDAR  OF  PATENT  BOLLS. 


1461.  Membrane  l5—cani» 

Not.  3.         Mandate  to  all  bailiflb  and  others  to  permit  John  DawySi  clerk,  a  native 
Westminster,  of  Craell  in  Scotland,  dwelling  at  Stowebydon  in  England,  who  has  taken 
an  oath  of  fealty,  to  live  within  the  realm  and  enjoy  his  goods. 

Nov.  7.         Presentation  of  William  Moreton,  doctor  of  theology,  to  the    parish 
WertmioBter.  chnrch  of  Skrayugham,  in  the  diooese  of  York,  void  by  resignation  of  John 
Bede,  clerk. 

Nov.  6.         Grant  for  life  to  William  Trussell,  yeoman  of  the  crown,  of  6d.  daily  from 
Westmiiuter.  4  March  last  from  the  fee  farm  of  the  town  of  Obucester.  By  K. 

Mandate  in  porsnanoe  to  the  men,  bailiffs,  farmers  or  other  occupiers  of 
the  said  fee  farm. 

Nov.  6.  Grant  for  life  to  John  Sidborough,  veoman  of  the  crown,  of  6d.  daily 

Wentminster.  for  his  fee  from  4  Msrch  last  from  the  fee  &rm  of  the  town  of  Gloucester. 

ByK. 
Mandate  in  pursuance  as  above. 

Sept.  5.         Mandate  to  all  bailifis  and  others  to  permit  John  de  Medina,  a  native 

Westmingter.  of  Spain,  dwelling  in  London,  who  has  taken  an  oath  of  fealty,  to  live 

within  itie  realm  and  enjoy  his  goods.  By  K. 

Nov.  17.        Presentation  of  Hugh  Baglan,  chaplain,  to  the  parish  church  of  Eayrhugh 
Westminster,  aluis  Caeru,  in  the  diOCese  3  St.  Davids.  By  p.s. 

Sept.  4.  Grant  for  life  to  Jlichard  Willy  of  the  office  of  keeper  of  the  king's  park 

BnstoL       of  Langley  Mareys,  co.  Buckingham,  with  the  accustomed  fees  at  the  hands 

of  the  bailiffs  or  farmers  of  the  king's  lordship  of  Langley  Mareys  and  all 

other  accustomed  profits.  By  p.s. 


Membrane  14. 

July  30.         Appointment  for  life  of  William  Hyll  as  purveyor  of    stone-cutters, 
Westminster,   plumbers,  and  other  workn^n  and  all  Idnds  pf  stuff  for  the  king's  works 
within  his  palace  at  Westminster  and  the  Tower  of  London,  receiving  the 
accustomed  fees  from  the  issues  of  the  counties  of  Norfolk  and  Suffolk. 

ByE. 

Aug.  4.  Grant,  during  good  behaviour,  to  the  king's  servant  Bobert  Cousin  of 

Westminster,  the  office  of  clerk  in  the  great  wardrobe,  receiving  the  accustomed  fees 

and  vestures  at  the  hands  of  the  keeper  of  the  great  wardrobe.  By  p.s. 

July  25.         Grant  for  life  to  Thomas  Fulthorp,  one  of  the  yeomen  of  the  crown, 

Westminster,  of  6d,  daily  for  his  fee  from  4  March  last  from  the  fee  farm  of  the  town 

of  Northampton.  By  E. 

Mbj  1,  The  like  to  the  king's  servitor  William  Staveley  of  the  custody  of  his 

Westminster,  park  of  Chiltern  Langley,  co.  Hertford,  and  the  houses  of  his  manor  of 

Chiitern  Langley  and  the  office  of  under-parker  of  his  park  of  Langley  called 

Chiltern  Langley,  receiving  fees  as  in  the    times  of    Edward  III.  and 

Richard  IL  from  the  issues  of  the  manor.  By  K. 

Oct.  14.  The  like  to  the  king's  servant  Edmund  Graveley  of  the  office  of  chief 
Westminster,  carpenter  of  the  king's  works  within  his  palace  of  Westminster  and  the 
Tower  of  London  and  elsewhere  in  England,  receiving  wages  of  4d.  daily 
from  4  March  last  from  the  farm  and  issues  of  the  counties  of  London  and 
Middlesex,  and  a  robe  of  the  suit  of  the  king's  esquires  yearly  at  the  great 
wardrobe.  By  p.s. 

Oct  23.         The  like  to  William  Danyell,  alias  Ussher,  of  an  annuity  of  20  marks 
Westminster,  from  the  issues  or  fee  farm  of  the  town  of  Ollerton,  co.  Hereford.      By  p.s. 

Oct.  20.         Pardon  to  Thomas  Lambard,  one  of  the  constables  of  the  town  of  Walden, 

Westminster,  co.  Essex,  for  the  escape  of  Peter  Bate  of  Stokeclare,  co.  Suffolk,  *  taillour,' 

arrested  at  Walden  for  felony.  By  p.s. 


1  EDWARD  IV.— Part  IL  61 


1461.  Membrane  14 — coni. 

Oct.  20.         Grant  for  life  to  John  Moresby  of  the  office  of  the  laandership  of  the 
Westminster,  king's  park  of  Plamton,  receiving  the  accustomed  fees.  By  p.s. 

Sept.  20.        The  like  to  James  Ghrene,  for  his  good  service  to  the  king's  father  and 

Westminster,  the  king  for  30  years  and  more,  of  an  annuity  of  20  marks  yearly  from 

1  April  last  from  the  issues   of   the  king^s  lordships  in    the  county  of 

Hereford  pertaining  to  the  earldom  of  March.  By  p,s. 

Oct.  22.         The  like  to  the  king's  servitor  William  Aleyn  of    the  office  of    the 

Westminster,  bailiwick  of  Fynchamstede  within  the  king's  forest  of  Wyndesore,  from 

4  March  last,  receiving  the  accustomed  fees  at  the  hands  of  the  sheriff  of 

Oxford  and  Berks,  with  the  custody  of  the  king's  manor  of  Esthamstede 

within  the  said  forest,  with  the  accustomed  fees.  By  p.s. 

Nov.  13.         notification  of  the  estate  which  Walter  Hunt,  doctor  of  theology,  of  the 
Westminster,  order  of  the  Carmelites,  has  as  rector  or  portioner  of  the  parish  church 
of  Llannynnys,  pertaining  to  the  collation  of  the  bishop  of  Bangor. 

Nov.  4.  The  like  of  the  estate  which  the  king's  servitor  Thomas  Normanton,  of 

Westminster,  the  king's  chapel,  has  in  the  hospital  of  St.  Leonard,  Derby. 

Nov.  12.         Grant,  during  pleasure,  to  Robert  Alyn  of  the  office  of  ganger  in  the 

Westminster,  port  of  Southampton  and  ports  and  places  adjacent,  receiving  the  accustomed 

fees.  By  bill  of  treasurer. 

Nov.  16.         Grrant  for  life  to  the  king's  servitor  John  Nightingale  of  the  office  of 

Westminster,  keeper  of  the  king's  park  of  Clyf  within  his  forest  of  Rokyngham,  from 

the  first  day  of  the  reign,  with  the  accustomed  fees  and  *  wyndfalwode,' 

*  driewode,' '  derefalwode,'  and  ^  copioehegges '  in  the  park.  By  p.s. 

Nov.  6.  The  like  to  the  king's  servant  Henry  Langshawe  of  the  office  of  the 

Westminster,  parkership  of  the  king's  park  of  Blakedon,  co.  Dorset,  in  the  same  manner 

as  he  held  the  same  by  letters  patent  of  the  king's  father,  and  release  to 

him  of  a  yearly  rent  of  20s,  for  a  fttrm  of  rabbits  in  the  park.  By  p.s. 

Nov.  8.  The  like  to  William,  lord  of  Barry,  of  a  yearly  rent  of  20  marks  from  the 

Westminster,  king's  custom  and  coket  of  the  dty  of  Cork  or  the  towns  of  Kynsale, 

Yoghill  and  Dengyn.  By  p.s. 

Nov.  9.  Whereas  Baldwin  Mountford,  knight,  lately  enfeoffed  the  king,  then  earl 

Westminster,  of  March,  and  Richard,  earl  of  Warwick,  and  others  of  the  manors  of 
ColshuU  and  Hmyndon,  co.  Warwick,  to  re-enfeoff  him  or  Simon  his  son  of 
the  same,  and  the  said  Simon  entered  into  and  was  seised  of  the  manors 
before  4  March  last,  the  king  now  releases  all  claim  to  them,  saving  only  the 
accustomed  rights  of  the  crown.  By  p.s. 

Mbubranb  18. 

Aug.  7.  Inspeximus  and  confirmation  to  Bobert  Leghe,  esquire,  of  letters  patent 

Westminster,  of  the  king's  father  Richard,  duke  of  York,  dated  at  Waltham,  4  December, 
33  Henry  VI.,  appointing  him  for  life  as  constable  or  keeper  of  his  castle 
of  Dinbiegh  in  North  Wales,  receiving  the  accustomed  fees. 

For  lOs,  paid  in  the  hanaper. 

At^.  3.  Grant  for  life  to  John  Edmond,  '  yomanpouderbeter '  of  the  king's  spicery, 

Westminster,  of  the  office  of  porter  of  the  town  of  Camarvan  in  North  Wales,  with  the 

accustomed  fees  from  the  issues  of  the  counties  of  Camarvan,  Merionnyth 

and  Anglesey  at  the  hands  of  the  king's  chamberlain  there.  By  p.s. 

Aug.  4.  The  like  to  John  Malpas,  esquire,  and  Joan  his  wife  of  an  annuity  of 

Westminster.  20  marks  from  the  issues  of  the  kin^s  manor  of  Cranebourn,  co.  Wilts. 

By  p.8. 

July  25.         The  like  to'  William  Lie,  one  of  the  yeomen  of  the  crown,  of  6d.  daily  for 
Westminster,  his  fee  from  4  March  lost  from  the  fee  farm  of  the  city  or  town  of  Norwich. 

ByK. 

D  2 


52  CALENDAR  OP  PATENT  BOLLS. 


1461.  Membrane  13— eon/. 

Oct.  15.         General  pardon  to  Henry  CrofSHe,  clerk,  for  all  offences  committee!  by  him 
Westminater.  before  the  last  day  of  September.  By  p.s. 

Oct  15.         Grant  for  life  to  William  Brokewod,  one  of  the  yeomen  of  the  crown,  of 

Westminster.  Qd.  daily  for  his  fee  from  4  March  last  from  the  fee  farm  of  Kyogesbarton 

by  Qlonoester  at  the  hands  of  the  abbot  of  St.  Peter*s,  Gloucester.     By  p.8. 

Oct.  14.  The  like  to  the  king's  servant  John  Davy  of  the  custody  of  the  manor  of 

Westminster.  Kennyngton  with  a  rabbit  warren  and  garden  adjacent,  with  the  accus- 
tomed fees.  By  p.s. 

Aug.  16.         General  pardon  to  Simon  Milbume  alias  Melburne  of  Laverstoke,  co. 
Westnunster.   Wilts,  *  gentilman,'  for  all  offences  committed  by  him  before  1  July  last. 

By  p.8. 

Oct.  21.         The  like  to  Andrew  Buntynge,  late  of  Redenale,  oo.  Norfolk,  for  all 
Westminster,  offences  committed  by  him  before  20  October.  By  p.8. 

Oct.  12.  Licence,  for  10«.  paid  in  the  hanaper,  for  Thomas  Brewys,  esquire, 
Westminster.  Richard  Broom,  esquire,  Richard  Lucas,  Thomas  Crowe,  Thomas  Boken- 
ham,  chaplain,  Robert  Teryngton,  William  Barett^  Robert  Cake,  John  Adgor 
and  John  Dunche  to  grant  a  messuage,  30  acres  of  land,  5  acres  of  meadow 
and  5  acres  of  wood  in  Mendelsham,  held  in  chief  with  the  exception  of  one 
acre  of  land,  to  William  Brewys,  esquire,  Gilbert  Debenham  the  younger, 
esquire,  John  Germyn,  esquire,  WiJliam  Harleston,  esquire,  John  Cheke, 
Edward  Dale,  John  Cake,  John  Barett,  Thomas  Teryngton,  John  Bokenham, 
Thomas  Morwhill  and  Robert  Clerk  in  fee  simple. 

Oct.  22.         Grant  for  life  to  the  king's  servant  Stephen  Shadwell  of  the  office  of 

Westminster,   being  one  of  the  king's  Serjeants  at  arms,  receiving  wages  of  I2d,  daily  from 

the  issues  of  the  counties  of  Norfolk  and  Suffolk  and  a  livery  of  the  suit  of 

other  Serjeants  at  arms  yearly  at  Christmas  at  the  great  wardrobe.     By  p.s. 

Nov.  7.  Licence  for  John  Langstrother,  preceptor  of  Balsale,  and  Cincius  de 

Westminster.   Ursinis,  alien  preceptor  of  the  priory  of  the  city  (Rome),  to  carry  out  the 

commands  of  James  de  Aflylly,  muster  of  the  Hospital  of  St.  John  of  Jemsa> 

lem,  and  the  convent  of  Rhodes,  to  visit  the  houses  of  the  order  in  England 

and  Ireland.     IFcederaJ]  By  p.s. 

Mbmbranb  12. 

Aug.  30.  Appointment  of  John  Latheil  to  survey  a  messuage  or  plot  called  '  Queue 
Woodstock.  Janeswarderobe '  by  Aldrichgate,  London,  lately  granted  to  John  Fogge, 
knight,  for  life,  and  12  tenements  annexed,  and  to  collect  all  rents  from 
Christmas  last,  and  to  repair  the  above  and  account  for  the  same  at  the 
Exchequer ;  and  grant  to  him  for  life  of  the  occupation  of  the  supervision 
of  the  same,  receiving  2d,  daily  from  the  issues.  By  p.s. 

April  26. ,       Grant  for  life  to  Robert  Kyrkeham,  king's  clerk,  of  the  office  or  custody 
Durham,     of  the  hanaper  in  Chancery,  with  the  accustomed  fees.  By  p.s. 

Sept.  8.  Grant  to  William  Broun,  clerk,  of  an  annuity  of  8/.  from  the  abbot  and 

Bristol.       convent  of  Bruerne,  until  he  shall  be  provided  with  a  benefice  of  the  value 

of  20/.  yearly.  By  K. 

Oct  16.         Grant  during  good  behaviour,  to  John  Skeltou,  esquire,  for  his  good 

Westminster,  service  to  the  king  and  his  brothers,  the  duke  of  Clarence  and  Richard,  of 

the  office  of  surveyor  of  the  scrutiny  in  the  port  of  London  and  places, 

ports  and  creeks  adjacent,  with  the  accustomed  fees.  By  p.s. 

Oct.  20.         General  pardon  to  John  Alexaunder  alias  Bocher  late  of  Gaislee,  co. 
Westminster.  Suffolk,  for  all  offences  committed  by  him  before  16  October.  By  p.s. 

Oct.  25.  Grant  for  life  to  Henry  Crane,  for  his  good  service  to  the  king  and  his 

^Westminster,  father,  of  the  office  of  making  and  keeping  the  king's  arrows  within  the 

Tower  cf  London,  with  wages  of  6J.  daily  and  all  accustomed  profits  from 


1  EDWARD  IV.— Part  II.  53 


14i61.  Membrane  12-~co»^. 

the  fee  fann  of  the  hundreds  of  Eetesgate,  Holford  and  Greston  with  fairs 
and  markets  in  Wynchecombe  at  the  hands  of  the  abbot  and  convent  of 
Wynehecombe,  with  a  livery  yearly  of  the  suit  of  a  yeoman  of  the  king's 
chamber  at  the  hands  of  the  keeper  of  the  great  wardrobe.  By  K. 

May  13.         The  like  to  Edward  Gower  of  the  office  of  clerk  of  the  works  within  the 
York.         king's  manor  and  park  of  Claryngdon,  co.  Wilts,  with  the  accustomed  fees. 

ByK. 

Oct.  16.         The  like  to  Robert  Blakeman,  late  servant  of  the  king's  kinsman  Thomas 

Westminster.  Neville,  knight,  deceased,  of  the  office  of  one  of  the  king's  keepers  of  ^  le 

Overwiurd '  within  his  forest  of  Inglewode,  with  fees  as  in  the  time  of  Edward 

in.  By  p.s. 

IQ'ov.  5.  The  like  to  the  king's  servitor  William  Aleyne  of  the  office  of  bailiff  of 
Westminster.  Fynchamstede  within  the  king'A  forest  of  Wyndesore  alicu  forester  of  the 
forest  of  Wyndesore,  from  4  March  last,  receiving  the  same  fees  as  Walter 
Wymbussh  or  any  other  had  at  the  hands  of  the  sheriff  of  Oxford  and  Berks, 
with  the  custody  of  the  king's  manor  of  Esthamstede  with  the  accustomed 
profits.  By  p^. 

July  5.  Grant,  during  good  behaviour,  to  the  king's  servant  William  Rous  of  the 

Westminster;  office  of  one  of  the  clerks  of  the  crown  in  Chancery,  with  a  fee  of  20/.  yearly 

from  the  issues  of  the  hanaper,  and  a  livery  of  fur  and  cloth  as  any  of  the 

other  clerks  yearly  towards  Whitsuntide  and  Christmas  at  the  handis  of  the 

keeper  of  the  great  wardrobe.  By  K. 

Nov.  11.  Pardon  to  William  Bly  the  late  of  Stratford  atte  Bowe,  co.  Middlesex^ 
Westminster.  <  servant,'  of  his  outlawry  in  the  said  county  for  not  appearing  before  the 
late  king,  when  sued  with  John  Jenyn,  *  servant,'  and  William  Lynston, 
'  taylour,'  both  late  of  Stratford,  to  answer  Emma,  late  the  wife  of  Thomas 
Broun,  for  the  death  of  her  husband,  he  having  surrendered  to  the  Marshal- 
sea  prison,  as  appears  by  certificate  of  John  Markham,  chief  justice. 

Nov.  10.         General  pardon  to  Edmund  Anderton  of  Tuxford  in  the  Clay,  co. 
vVostminster.   Nottingham.  By  p.s. 

Nov.  IG.         Mandate  to  all  bailifis  and  others  to  permit  Robert  Lauther  alias  Luter, 
Wcittminster.  a  native  of  Edynburgh  In  Scotland,  dwelling  at  Newemarket,  co.  Cambridge, 
who  has  taken  an  oath  of  fealty,  to  inhabit  the  realm  peaceably  and  enjoy 
his  goods. 

July  17.         Jrupeximus  and  confirmation  of  letters  patent  of   the  king's    father 
Westminster.  Richard,  duke  of  York,  dated  at  Waltham,   1  May,  32  Henry  VI..  being 
a  grant  for  life  to  his  servant  William  Skypwith,  knight,  of  an  annuity  of 
20/.  from  the  issues  of  his  manor  and  lordship  of  Hattefeld,  co.  York. 

For  20«.  paid  in  the  hanaper. 

Oct.  8.  Grant  for  life  to  William  Pecche,  knight,  one  of  the  king's  carvers,  of 

Westminster.  40/.  yearly  from  the  issues  of  the  county  of  Kent.  By  p.s. 

Mbmbrane  11. 

July  5.  Grank  in  frank  almoin  to  the  prioress  and  convent  of  St.  Mary  de  Pre 

Westminster,  hy  St.  Albans,  co.  Hertford,  of  the  alien  priory  and  manor  of  Wenge,  co. 
Bucicingham,  late  pertaining  to  the  abbey  of  St.  Nicholas  by  Angers  in 
Normandy,  and  the  parish  church  of  Wenge  pertaining  to  the  priory,  with 
all  hundreds,  manors,  lands,  knights'  fees  and  other  possessions  and  the 
advowson  of  the  vicarage  of  Wenge,  quit  of  all  tithes,  subsidies  and  tallages, 
that  they  may  celebrate  divine  service  daily  in  their  church  for  the  good 
estate  of  the  king  and  for  his  soul  after  death  and  those  of  his  progenitors. 

ByK. 

May  11.  Grant  for  life  to  the  king's  servitor  William  Norbourgh  of  the  crstody  of 

Westminster,  his  manor  of  Shene,  with  the  accnmstomed  fees.  By  p.s. 


54  CALENDAR  OP  PATENT  ROLLS. 


1461.  Membrane  1) — cont. 

July  24.  Confirmation  and  grant  in  frank  almoin  to  Thomas  Ohaundeler,  the 
WestmiDBter.  warden,  and  the  fellows  of  the  college  of  St.  Marj  of  Wjmton,  in  Oxford, 
commonly  called  ^  Saint  Marye  College  of  Winchestre  in  Oxenford '  (New 
College),  of  the  manors  of  Newynton  Longvyle  with  all  other  manors,  lands, 
rents,  fees,  advowsons  and  other  possessions  formerly  pertaining  to  the 
priory  of  St.  Faith,  Longvyle,  which  they  have  hel<l  for  some  time,  and 
release  to  them  of  all  profits  pertaining  to  the  king  from  the  same,  rendering 
to  the  king  a  red  rose  at  Midsummer. 

By  p.s.  [279]  and  for  100$.  paid  in  the  hanaper. 

Nov.  13.         Grant  for  life  to  William  Harold,  *  gentllman,*  of  all  messuages,  lands  and 

Westminster,  tenements  in  Anleyston  iUias  Ballianely,  co.  Dublin,  in  Ireland,  and  all 

messoagep,  lands,  tenements,  rents,  and  services  with  appurtenances  in 

Hamondeston  and  Symoneston  in  the  said  county,  attaining  to  the  value  of 

10/.  yearly.  By  p.8. 

Nov.  6.  The  like  to  the  king's  servant  Walter  Harayrig  of  the  office  of  ranger  of 

Westmiaster.  the  king's  chase  of  Cramburne,  co.  Dorset,  in  the  same  manner  as  he 
held  it  by  letters  patent  of  the  king*s  father.  By  p.s. 

Nov.  15.        General  pardon  to  Robert  G^liug  of  Richemond^  co.  York,  'yoman.' 
Westminster.  By  p.s. 

The  like  to  the  following  : — 
John  Stannall  of  Richemond,  'cardmaker,*  in  the  county  of  York, 

*  yonum.' 
Thomas  Cowton  of  Richemond,  co.  York,  *  yoman.' 

Nov.  2.  Grant  for  life  to  the  king's  servitor  John  Wenlok  of  Wenlok,  knight,  of 

Westminster,  the  office  of  the  stewardship  of  the  king's  castle  and  lordship  of  Berkamstede, 

with  the  accustomed  fees.  By  p.s. 

Nov.  18.        The  like  to  John  Burley  of  the  office  of  warrener  of  Cockam  and  Bray, 
Westminster,  co.  Berks,  with  the  accustomed  fees.  By  p.s. 

Nov.  15.        Grant  in  fee  simple  to  John  Stapelhill  of  all  manors,  messuages,  lands^ 

Westminster,  tenements,   rents,  advowsons,  etc.   in    Donsford,     Fulford,  Melhewyssh, 

Crokkerne  Well  and  Fennymyle,  co.  Devon,  late  of  Baldwin   Fulford, 

knight,  rebel,  convicted  of  high  treason.  By  p.s. 


MSMBRANB  10. 

July  26.  Grant  to  John,  lord  Stourton,  Richard  Chok,  serjeant-at-law,  John  Sharp, 
Westminster.  William  Codir,  William  Howell  and  Richard  Kayton  of  2000/.  at  the  hands 
of  the  receivers  of  the  issues  of  the  possessions  late  of  James  Ormond,  earl 
of  Wilts,  viz.  600/.  at  each  succeeding  Michaelmas,  to  be  by  them  distributed 
to  the  king's  subjects  of  London,  Bristol,  Salisbury,  Ludlowe  and  other 
places  of  the  realm,  in  lieu  of  the  same  sum  appointed  to  be  paid  to  the 
latter  by  the  Genoese  for  certain  injuries,  which  was  delivered  to  the  said 
earl,  late  treasurer  of  England,  and  not  distributed  by  him.  By  p.8. 

March  12.        Appointment,  during  good  behaviour,  of  the  king's  servant  Richard 

Westminster.  Foweler  as  solicitor  of  the  king,  receiving  10/.  yearly  at  the  hands  of  the 

receiver-general  of  the  duchy  of  Cornwall.  By  K. 

Oct.  12.  Grant  for  life  to  Christopher  Sent  Laurence,  knight,  lord  of  Howeth  in 

Westminster.  Ireland,  for  his  good  service  to  the  king's  father,  of  the  constableship  of 

the  king's  castle  of  Dublin,  with  the  accustomed  fees  at  the  hands  of  the 

treasurer  of  Ireland.  By  p.s. 

Aug.  17.  Grant  to  the  mayor  and  society  of  merchants  of  the  staple  of  Calais  of 

Wostininster.  Ss.  Sd»  from  the  subsidy  of  each  sack  of  wool  and  6s,  Sd,  from  the  subsidy 

of  each  240  wool-fcils  to  bo  shipped  by  them  in  any  ports  of  England  until 

they  shall  be  fully  satisfied  of  1000/.  lent  by  thorn  to  the  king.  By  p.s. 


1  EDWARD  IV.— Pabt  II.  65 


.  1461.  Membrane  10— con^ 

Oct.  14.         Grant  for  life  to  the  king's  servant  John  Davy  of  the  custody  of  the  king's 
Weirtiiiiiister.  mmor  of  Kennyngton,  co.  Surrey,  with  a  rabbit  warren  and  garden  adjacent, 
with  the  aocustomed  fees  from  ihe  issues  of  the  manor.  By  p.s. 

Vacated  because  on  another  roll, 

Oct.  17.        The  like  to  Robert  Spaldyng  of  the  office  of  one  of  the  king's  Serjeants  at 

Weetminster.   arms,  in  the  place  of  Alexander  Shefeld,  with  wages  of  I2d.  daily  from  the 

fee  farm  and  issues  of  the  dty  and  counties  of  London  and  Middlesex  and 

a  livery  of  the  suit  of  other  Serjeants  yearly  at  Christmas  at  the  great 

wardrobe.  By  K. 

Dec.  14.  Licence  for  the  men  of  the  mystery  of  tailors  of  the  city  of  Salisbury  to 
Westminster,  become  one  body  and  community  and  to  form  a  fraternity  or  guild  of  them- 
selves and  others,  men  and  women,  in  the  chapel  of  St.  John  the  Baptist 
within  the  parish  church  of  St.  Thomas  the  Martyr,  to  be  called  the  guild 
of  St.  John  the  Baptist,  to  choose  two  wardens  for  their  governance,  and  to 
have  power  to  acquire  possessions  and  to  sue  and  be  sued  and  punish  their 
members ;  and  to  found  a  perpetual  chantry  of  one  chaplain  to  celebrate 
divine  service  daily  at  the  altar  of  St.  John  in  the  said  church  for  the  good 
estate  of  the  king  and  themselves  and  for  their  souls  after  death  and  those  of 
the  king's  father  and  progenitors,  and  to  acquire  lands  and  other  possessions 
in  mortmain  to  the  value  of  20/.  yearly  for  his  sustenance.  By  p.s. 

Nov.  22.  Pardon  to  William  Gosse,  heir  and  tenant  of  the  lands  late  of  Richard 
Westminster.  GK>sse,  late  one  of  the  collectors  of  the  customs  and  subsidies  of  wools,  hides 
and  wool-fells  and  the  petty  custom  and  the  subsidy  of  tonnage  and 
poundage  in  the  port  of  Briggewater  and  ports  and  places  adjacent,  deceased, 
and  to  Marjory,  late  the  wife  of  the  latter,  executrix  of  his  will  and  adminis- 
tratrix of  his  goods,  of  all  trespasses,  offences,  debts,  arrears  and  forfeitures. 

By  p.s. 

Nov.  26.         Presentation  of  Owin  Licit,  rector  of  Hodnette,  in  the  diocese  of  Coventry 

Westminster,   and  Lichfield,  to   the  church  of  Towyn   Meronnygh,  in  the  diocese  of 

Bangor,  on  an  exchange  of  benefices  with  John  Brugge,  rector  of  the 

church.  By  p.s. 


Membrane  9. 

Oct.  5.  Grant  for  life  to  Richard  Chokke  of  a  yearly  rent  of  20/.  from  the  issues 

Westminster,  of  the  king's  lordship  or  manor  of  Cianborne,  co.  Dorset,  and  a  tun  of 
Ghiscon  wine  yearly  at  Christmas  from  the  king's  prises  in  the  port  of  Bristol. 
Mandate  in  pursuance  to  the  receivers  of  the  manor. 

Nov.  9.  Mandate  to  all  bailiffs  and  others  to  permit  Robert  de  Lynton,  bachelor  of 

Westminster,  either  law,  a  native  of  Scotland,  dwelling  within  the  realm,  to  inhabit  the 

realm  of  England  and  enjoy  his  goods.  By  EI. 

Nov.  7.  Grant  for  life  to  Ralph  Machon,  king's  esquire,  of  the  ofiice  of  collector  oi 

Westminster,   tolls  at  the  bridge  called  *  Newnhambrigge,'  with  fees  to  the  value  of  20 

marks  yearly  from  the  issues  of    his  office,  as  he  had  in  the  time  of 

Henry  VI.  By  p^ 

Nov.  13.        The  like  to  John  Shute,  one  of  the  yeomen  of  the  crown,  of  the  office  of 

Westminster,   porter  of  the  king's  castle  of  Hadlegh  alicu  Hadley,  co.  Essex,  receiving  the 

accustomed  fees,  viz.  3<f.  daily,  from  4  March  last,  from  the  fee  farm  of  the 

town  of  Colcestre.  By  p.s. 

Nov.  19.        Grant  to  Nicholas  Lathell  of  the  Exchequer  of  20/.  yearly  from  4  March 

Westminster,  last  from  the  issues  of  the  counties  of  Bedford  and  Buckingham,  until  he 

shall  have  another  office  or  gift  to  that  value.  By  p.s. 

Nov.  20.        Appointment  of  Francis  de  Copinis,  bishop  of  Ternl  (Interamnen*)^  as 
Westminnter.  proctor  und  envoy  of  the  king  at  the  court  of  Rome.    [Fcedera,'} 


56  CALENDAR  OP  PATENT  BOLLS. 


146  L  Membrane  9-^c&nt. 

Nov.  17.         Grant  for  life  to  the  king's  servitor  John  Acton,  esqnire,  of  the  office  of 

Westminster,  ranger  of  ChaspeU,  Iverley  and  Asshewode   within  the  king's  forest  of 

Kjmvare  with  the  offices  of  steward  of  the  forest  and  bailiff  of  Ghaspell  and 

lyerlej,  with  stanks,  *  wayyes/  ^  strajes,'  herbage,  pannage  and  wood  called 

^  wjndfaisy'  rendering  I3s.  4(L  yearly  at  the  Exchequer.  By  p.8. 

Nov.  20.         The  like  to  Louis  John  of  the  custody  of  the  king's  park  of  Fulbrokc, 
Wcstminfter.  co.  Warwick,  with  the  accustomed  fees.  By  p.a. 

Not.  22.         The  like  to  Richard  Coldale  of  the  custody  of  the  passage  of  the  water 
Westminster,  of  Sulwath  in  the  marches  of  Scotland,  with  the  accustomed  fees.      By  p.s. 

Nov.  17.         The  like  to  Henry  Trencheard,  esquire,  of  the  office  of  the  forestership  of 

Westminster,  the  king's  forest  in  the  Isle  of  Wight  and  the  custody  of  his  park  there, 

receiving  fees  as  in  the  times  of  Edward  III.  and  Bichard  II.  from  the 

issues  of  the  island  and  the  king's  lordship  there,  with  all  other  profits 

pertaining  to  the  same.  By  p.s. 

Nov.  25.         The  like  to  the  king's  servant  Christopher  Foumes  of  the  office  of 

Westminster,  ranger  of  the  king's  forest  of  Kyngi^bere  by  Winchester  alicu  Westbere  and 

the  custody  of  his  woods  called  'Papinholt'  and  'Shrowenore'  within  the 

forest,  with   the  accustomed    fees    from  the    issues  of    the  county    of 

Southampton. 

Vacated  because  otherwise  below. 

Nov.  27.        Appointment,  during  good  behaviour,  of  Henry  Elham  and  Hugh  Huls 

Westminster,  as  auditors  of  all  accounts  of  chamberlains,  sheriffs,  escheators,  ringilds, 

rhaglaws  {raglatorum\  farmers  and  other  ministers  in  the  counties  of 

Chester  and  Flint  in  the  parts  of  North  Wales,  receiving  fees  as  in  the 

times  of  Edward  III.  and  Richard  IL  By  bill  of  treasurer. 


Membrane  8. 

Nov.  20.  Inspeximus  and  confirmation  to  the  mayor,  bailiffs  and  burgesses  of 
Westminster.  Quenesburgh  in  the  Isle  of  Shepeye,  co.  Kent,  of  a  charter  dated  20  March, 
1  Bichard  II.  [Charter  Roily  1  Richard  II, ^  No.  13],  inspecting  and 
confirming  a  charter  dated  10  May,  42  Edward  III.  [Charter  RoU^ 
42  Edward  IIL^  No,  8],  creating  the  town  a  free  borough  and  granting  to 
them  a  market  and  two  fairs  and  divers  other  liberties  and  privileges. 

For  20t.  paid  in  the  hanaper. 

Nov.  20.         Mandate  to  all  bailiffs  and  others  to  permit  John  Grenelawe,  ^  taylour,'  a 

Westminster,  native  of  Aburden  in  Scotland,  dwelling  at  Canterbury,  who  has  taken  an 

oath  of  fealty,  to  inhabit  the  realm  of  England  peaceably  and  enjoy  his 

goods.  By  p.s. 

Nov.  26.         Grant  for  life  to  the  king's  servant  William  Sturmy  of  the  office  of 

Westminster,  keeper  of  the  king's  park  of  Hampstede  Marshall,  co.  Berks,  from  6  April 

last,  with  fees  as  in  the  times  of  Edward  III.  and  Richard  II.  from  the 

issues  of  the  king's  manor  or  lordship  of  Hampstede  Marshall.  By  p.s. 

The  like  to  the  said  WOliam  of  the  office  of  bdliff  of  the  said  manor. 

By  p.s. 

Nov.  29*         General  pardon  to  William  Staynour  of  Coventre,  ^  yoman.'  By  p.s. 

Westminster. 

Nov.  25.         Grant  for  life  to  the  king's  servitor  Roland  Symondys  of  the  office  of 
Westminster,  parker  of  the  king's  park  of  Fekenham  and  keeper  of  Barowhill  with  a 
plot  and  stank  appertaining,  with  the  accustomed  fees  irom  the  revenues  of 
the  said  lordship.  By  p.s 

Nov.  29.         Grant  in  frank  almoin  to  Elizabeth,  the  abbess,  and  the  convent  of  St. 

Westminster.  Saviour  and  SS.  Mary  and  Bridget,  Syon,  of  the  order  of  St.  Augustine,  of 

the  priory  of  St.  Michael's  Mount  in  Cornwall  belonging  to  the  duchy  of 


1  EDWARD  IV.— Paet  II.  57 


1461.  Membrane  8— c«wi^. 

Cornwall,  the  manor  of  Tjleshidoy  formerly  parcel  of  the  abbey  of  Caen,  the 
manor  and  rectory  of  Felstede,  co.  Essex,  formerly  parcel  of  the  same,  all 
lands  late  of  the  abbey  of  St,  Nicholas,  Angers,  in  Spaldyng,  co.  Lincoln, 
and  all  fruits  of  the  church  of  Cosham,  co.  Wilts,  with  all  hundreds,  leets, 
courts,  wapentakes,  views  of  frank  pledge,  manors,  lands,  churches,  knights' 
feesj  advowsoDs  and  other  appurtenances,  to  pray  for  the  good  estate  of  the 
king  and  Cicely  his  mother  and  for  their  souls  afler  death  and  those  of 
Richard,  late  duke  of  York,  his  father,  and  his  progenitors,  and  to  do  other 
works  of  piety.  By  p.8. 

Membrane  7. 

Nov.  24.         Grant  for  life  to  Thomas  Wath  of  the  office  of  aldei*man  of  Westgato 
Westminstor.  within  the  city  of  Canterbury,  with  the  accustomed  fees.  By  p.s. 

June  1.  Grant  to  the  king's  servitor  Roger  Eyeton  of  the  office  of  constable  of 

Westminiter.  the  king's  castle  of  Shrewsbury  and  the  custody  of  the  gaol  there  with  the 

accustomed  fees  i'rom  the  fee  farm  of  the  town  of  Shrewsbury,  and  of  a 

meadow  called  '  Shirrieff  Modowe  by  Hencote,'  late  in  the  tenure  of  Thomas 

Herford,  rendering  I2d.  yearly  at  the  Exchequer.  By  p.s. 

Nov.  27.         Mandate  to  all  bailiffs  and  others  to  permit  John  of  Guthrie,  a  native  of 

Westminster.   St.  Andrews  in  Scotland,  dwelling  within  the  parish  of  St.  Botolph  without 

Algate,  London,  who  has  taken  an  oath  of  fealty,  to  inhabit  the  realm 

peaceably  and  enjoy  his  goods.  By  p.s. 

Nov.  28.  Pardon  to  Henry  Chichele,  late  of  London,  esquire,  of  his  outlawry  in 
Westminster,  the  county  of  Surrey  for  not  appearing  before  John  Prysot  and  his  fellows, 
justices  of  the  Bench  in  the  late  reign,  to  satisfy  William  Clement^  citizen 
and  clothier  of  London,  son  of  John  Clement,  late  citizen  and  tailor  of 
London,  and  executor  of  his  will,  touching  a  debt  of  11/.  which  the  said 
John  recovered  against  him  and  7  marks  damages,  he  having  surrendered 
to  the  Flete  prison  and  the  said  William  having  acknowledged  hmiself  satisfied 
on  27  November,  as  appears  by  certificate  of  Robert  Danby,  chief 
justice. 

Nov.  22.  Grant  for  life  to  William  Bradshawe,  esquire,  of  100^.  and  20  marks 
Westminster,  yearly  from  the  issues  of  the  king's  part  of  the  lordship  of  Cotynham, 
CO.  York,  in  lieu  of  grants  to  him  by  the  king's  father  of  the  said  sums 
from  his  lordship  of  Wakefeld  and  from  the  issues  of  his  lordships  in 
the  counties  of  Somerset  and  Dorset  by  letters  patent  dated  at  LucUowe, 
39  (fie)  January,  30  Henry  VI.,  and  at  London,  20  November  39  Henry 
VI.,  respectively.  By  p.s. 

Nov.  18.  Confirmation  and  grant  for  life  to  John  Walton,  chaplain,  of  the  chantry 
— •  within  the  king's  manor  of  Clypston  with  the  chapel  of  St.  Edwin  within 
his  forest  of  Shirwode,  which  were  granted  to  him  by  letters  patent  dated 
19  December,  35  Henry  VL,  and  of  100#.  yearly  from  4  March  last  from 
the  issues  of  the  counties  of  Nottingham  and  Derby,  in  the  same  manner  as 
like  allowances  on  the  Great  Roll  of  29  Edward  III.  by  Walter  de  Monte 
GK>meri,  sherifi^,  to  Robert  Rotonr,  chaplain,  and  on  the  Great  Roll  of 
6  Richard  11.  by  John  de  Leek,  sherifi^,  to  John  Davy  of  Chillewell,  chap, 
lain  ;  that  he  may  pray  for  the  good  estate  of  the  king  and  for  his  soul  and 
those  of  his  progenitors.  By  p.8. 

Nov.  25.        Grant  for  life  to  Thomas  Say  of  the  ofiice  of  coroner  of  the  marshalsea  of 

Westmioster.  the  king's  household  with  the  accustomed  fees,  lately  granted  for  life  to 

John  Feryby,  yeoman  of  the  crown,  by  letters  patent  dated  22  April, 

surrendered.  By  p.8. 

Nov.  20.         Confirmation  to  the  dean  and  chapter  of  Holy  Trinity,  Waterford, 

Westminster.  Ireland,  of  a  grant  to  them  by  letters  patent  dated  17  February,  20  Henry 

VL,  of  16/.  13*.  M.  yearly  from  the  issues  of  the  fee  farm  of  the  city  of 


5S  CALENDAB  OF  PATENT  BOLLS. 


|^4gX.  Membrane  7— com* 

Waterford  for  80  yean  firom  Christtnas  then  last  past ;  and  oontinnation  of 
the  grant  for  40  years  farther  from  the  expiratkm  of  that  term.  By  K. 

Nov.  28.         Grant  in  fee  simple  to  the  king's  kinsman  John,  earl  of  Worcester,  of  the 

Westminster,  office  of  keeper  of  the  king's  forests  of  Wabrigge  and  Saplej,  co.  Huntingdon, 

with  underwood,  herbage  and  pannage,  reasonable  sustenance  for  the  king's 

deer  excepted,  and  all  fees  and  profits.  By  p.8. 

MSMBRANB  6. 

Not.  16.  Itupeximus  and  confirmation  to  Thomas  Grene,  knight,  present  tenant  of 
Westminster,  the  undermentioned  tenements  and  keeper  of  the  forest,  of  letters  patent 
dated  16  June,  6  Richard  IL,  inspecting  and  confirming  to  Master  John 
Goderych,  then  tenant  and  keeper,  a  charter  of  Henry  [XL],  as  follows  : — 
ff.  dei  gratia  rex  Anglic  daminus  Hihemie  dux  Normannie  et  Aquii" 
anie  comet  Andegavie  justidariis  viceeomiiibut  foresiariis  et  omnibus 
haUivis  etfidelibut  suis  saluiem.  Sciatis  not  dediue  et  hoc  present i 
carta  nostra  cot^rmasse  Bronemanno  foreHario  nostro  pro  fideli  ser- 
vido  suo  illud  tenementum  in  dominico  nostro  quod  vocatur  Pokell 
cum  omnibus  pertinentiis  suis  quod  est  inter  dominicum  boscum  nostrum 
de  Wackefeld  et  feodum  Leticie  de  Ferrariis  de  Passeham^  cum  dotni- 
bus  cum  hominibus  et  eorum  sequelig  et  cum  omnibus  catallis  suis  quod 
habeant  libermn  ingressum  et  exitum  in  dominicis  boscis  nostris  et 
in  foresta  nostra  de  Wytlowod  cum  omnimodis  bestiis  suis  et  quod 
habeant  percursum  per  totam  forestam  twstram  cum  porcis  suts  el 
sint  quieti  de  pannagio  et  de  expeditatione  canum  et  de  tolneto  in 
omnibus  f oris  et  undents  sine  districtione  et  occasione  et  dictus  Brune^ 
mannus  capiat  pannagium  de  hominibus  suis  quando  agistatores 
nostri  ceperint  pannagium  nostrum  libere  et  quiete,  Preterea  dedi^ 
mus  dido  Bruemanno  illam  culturam  terre  de  dominico  nostro  que 
vocatur  la  Leye  cum  suis  pertinentiis  et  visum  liberi  plegii  de  homini- 
bus suis  cum  catallis  cujuscumque  fugitivi  sui  et  iatronis  convicti 
ubicutnque  fuerint  inventi  et  si  quis  de  hominibus  suis  occiderit  tUium 
dictus  Brunemannus  habeat  catalla  ipsius  et  illius  qui  convictus  fuerit 
pro  vemUione  nostra  libere  et  quiete.  Preterea  dedimus  dicto  Brune- 
manno  bussellum  et  galonem  secundam  assisam  regni  nostri  et  placitum 
de  hutesio  et  sanguine  fuso  super  dictum  tenementum  et  de  pane  et 
cervisia  et  omnia  hujusmodi  amerciamenta  in  curia  sua  cum  omnibus 
transgressionibus  et  libertatibus  predictis  libere  et  quiete.  Dedimus 
etiam  dicto  Brunemanno  et  heredibus  stiis  custodiam  foreste  nostre  de 
Wyilewod  injeodo  et  ea  que  pertifient  adfirmam  suam  nobis  faciendam 
in  dominicis  boscis  nostris  sine  vasto  reddendo  nobis  anntia/tm  triginta 
et  tres  solidos  et  quatuor  denarios  et  sepedictus  Brunetnannus  et  here- 
des  sui  sint  quiete  de  comitatu  et  hundredis  de  assisis  et  summonitione 
de  sectis  et  occasionibus  in  perpetuum.  Preterea  volumus  quod  unus 
homo  de  predictis  hominibus  quem  eligerit  veniat  coram  justiariis 
nostris  itinerantibus  cum  inpartibus  illis  venerint  ostensurus  ea  queper^ 
tinent  ad  coronam  nostram.  Et  concedimus  quod  dictus  Brunemannus 
reddat  nobis  Jirmam  per  annum  pro  predicto  tenemento  scilicet  duos 
solidos  adfestum  sancti  Michaelis  pro  otnnibus  que  nobis  pertinent 
salva  venatione  nostra  et  morte  hominis  et  viridi  et  latrone  convicto, 
Prohibemus  etiam  quod  nullus  vicecomes  forestarius  vel  alius  ballivus 
ingressum  habeat  in  dicto  tenemento  neque  in  libertate  ista  nisi 
fuerit  pro  viridi  vel  pro  venatione  nostra  seti  detentione  firme  nostre 
et  tunc  fiat  per  summonitionem  scaccarii  nostri  et  non  aliter,  Et  nos 
et  heredes  nostri  predictum  tenetfientum  cum  omnibus  libertatibus  pre- 
die f is  dido  Brunemanno  et  heredibus  suis  cotttra  omnes  hof nines 
warantizabimus.  Et  suscepimus  in  protedionem  et  defensionem  nos- 
tram    homines  terras  d  possessiones  quas  didus   Brunemannus   et 


1  EDWARD  IV.— Part  IL  59 


]^4Q]^^  Membrane  6— con^. 

heredes  sui  passini  adipUd  in  Anglia,  In  cuius  ret  iettitnonium 
hanc  cartam  nostram  eidem  fieri  fecimus.  teste  me  ipso  apud 
Selveston  4*> 

For  5  marks  paid  in  the  hanaper. 

Nov.  20.        Inspeximus  and  confirmation  to  Richard  Fitz  William,  present  tenant,  of 
WestminBter.  a  charter  dated  18  Augost,  53  Henry  III.  [Charter  Roll,  53  Henry  III., 
m»  8.]y  being  a  grant  to  John  Comyn  and  Alice  his  wife  of  free  warren 
in  their  demesne  lands  of  Ulseby,  co.  Lincoln. 

For  ^  mark  paid  in  the  hanaper. 

Oct.  28.  Grant  for  life  to  the  king's  servitor  Henry  Waltham  of  the  office  of 

Westminster,  feodary  of  the  liberties  and  franchises  of  the  king's  hononr  of  Richemond 

in  the  counties  of  Lincoln  and  Nottingham,  with  the  accustomed  fees  from 

4  March  last.  By  p.s. 

Oct.  23.  Grant  to  Francis  de  Copinis,  bishop  of  Terni,  sometime  legate  of  the 

Westminster,  apostolic  see  in  England,  of  an  annuity  of  100/.  from  certain  customs  and 
subsidies  in  the  ports  of  London  and  Southampton,  or  at  the  Exchequer, 
payable  to  himself  or  to  George,  bishop  of  Exeter  and  chancellor,  Richard, 
earl  of  Warwick,  William  HEutynges,  knight,  lord  of  Hastynges,  king's 
chamberlain,  and  John  Fogge,  knight,  treasurer  of  the  household,  his  proc- 
tors, or  to  other  attorneys  of  his,  until  he  shall  be  provided  with  sufficient 
benefices ;  and  of  an  allowance  from  the  king's  cellar  for  ten  persons ;  and 
grant  to  him  and  Bartholomew  and  Thomaslnus,  his  nephews,  of  a  ^diite 
rose  on  their  arms.    [Foedera.]  By  p.s. 

Nov.  29.  Inspeximus  and  confirmation  to  the  abbot  and  convent  of  Kaynesham  of 
Westminster,  a  charter  dated  at  Welcomestowe,  28  February,  1  Edward  II.,  being  a  grant 
to  them  of  a  market  weekly  on  Thursdays  and  a  fiEiir  yearly  at  the  Assump- 
tion at  their  manor  of  Kaynesham,  co.  Somerset  Witnesses :  A.,  bishop 
of  Durham,  Humphrey  de  Bohun,  earl  of  Hereford  and  Essex,  John  de 
Britannia,  Hugh  le  Despenser,  Guy  Ferre  the  younger,  John  de  Merk, 
Philip  de  Vemay  and  others.  For  10#.  paid  in  the  hanaper. 

Nov.  24.         Grant  to  Geffrey  Midelton,  esquire,  of  the  custody  and  marriage  of 
Westminster.   Anne,  one  of   the    daughters  and    heirs    of  John  Haryngton,  knight, 
deceased,  a  minor  and  in  the  king's  custody,  rendering  100  marks  for  the 
same.  By  p.8. 

Nov.  26.         Grant  for  life  to  John  Davy,  citizen  and  ^  sherman '  of  London,  of  the  office 

Westminster,   of  shearer  {tonsoris)  of  aU  woollen  cloths  provided  for  the  great  wardrobe, 

with  the  accustomed  fees  and  livery  at  the  hands  of  the  keeper  of  the  great 

wardrobe.  By  p.s. 


Membrane  6. 

Oct.  19.  Grant  for  life  to  William  Swerenden,  one  of  the  dorks  of  Chancery,  of 

Westminster,  the  office  of  one  of  the  clerks  of  the  crown  of  Chancery,  now  held  by  Robert 
Rous,  on  his  vacation  of  the  same  by  death  or  surrender,  with  fees  as  in  the 
time  of  Edward  III.  from  the  issues  of  the  hanaper  and  a  livery  yearly  at 
the  great  wardrobe.  By  p.s. 

Vacated  by  surrender  and  cancelied,  because  the  Mng  granted  the  same 
to  the  said  William  and  John  Bagot  by  letters  patent j  22  June, 
4  Edward  IV. 

Nov.  19.        The  like  to  Thomas  Fylkyngton,  *  gentilman,'  of  the  office  of  constable  of 
Westminster,  the  king's  Castle  of  Wykelowe  in  Ireland  with  the  accustomed  fees  from  the 
issues  of  the  lordship  or  manor  of  Newcastle  by  Lyons  in  Ireland  and  the 
fee  farm  of  Cbapelizod  {Capelle  Isolde) f  Lexskep  and  Salmon  Leap. 

By  p..s. 


60  CALENDAR  OF  PATENT  BOLLS. 


|4gj^  Membrane  5 — cont. 

Nov.  13.         The  like  to  John  Shuie,  one  of  the  jeomen  of  the  crown,  of  the  offioe  of 

Westminster,  pnrker  or  keeper  of  the  king's  park  of  Ebdl^h  alias  Hadlej,  receiving  the 

accustomed  fees,  viz.,  Sd,  dailj,  from  4  March  last,  from  the  fee  fsurm  of  tho 

town  of  Oolcestre.  By  p.s. 

Nov.  20.         Batification  of  the  estate  of  John  NeelL  as  parson  of  the  parish  church 
Westminster,  of  St.  Mary,  Calais,  in  the  parts  of  Artois,  in  tho  diocese  of  Terooanne. 

Not.  23.         Revocation  of  protection,  with  clause  vo/timiu,   for  one  year,  lately 

Westminster,  granted  by  letters  patent  to  James  Duodo,  merchant  of  Venice,  going  on 

the  king's  service  in  the  company  of  Walter  Blcunte,  knight,  treasurer  of 

Calais,  on  the  safe-custody  and  victualling  of  the  town,  because  he  delays  in 

the  suburbs  of  London,  as  appears  by  certificate  of  the  sheriffs. 

NoV:  28.         Batification  of  the  estate  which  William  Dudeley  has  as   dean  of  the 
Westminster,  king's  free  chapel  or  collegiate  church  of  Wolvemhampton.  By  K. 

Nov.  27.  Inspeximus  and  confirmation  to  the  master  and  brethren  of  the  hospital 
Westminster,  of  St.  Thomas  the  Martyr  of  Aeon  of  letters  patent  dated  3  «fuly, 
18  Edward  II.,  inspecting  and  confirming  a  charter  of  Geoftrey  son  of 
Peter,  sometime  earl  of  Essex  [Mancuticonjf  being  a  grant  to  them  of  the 
custody  of  the  hospital  of  St.  John  the  Evangelist  of  lepers  in  Berchampsted, 
in  addition  to  the  custody  of  the  hospital  of  St.  John  the  Baptist  in  the  same 
town,  previously  granted  to  them.  For  1  mark  paid  in  the  hanaper. 

Nov.  20.         Grant,  during  good  behaviour,  to  the  king's  servant  John  Baron  of  the 

Westminster,  office  of  bailiff  of  the  king's  lordship  of  Fordyngton,  co.  Dorset,  with  the 

accustomed  fees.  By  p.8. 

The  like  to  the  said  John  of  the  office  of  gaoler  of  the  king's  gaol  of 

Dorcheslre,  co.  Dorset.  By  p.s. 

Nov.  30.        Grant,  during  pleasure,  to  the  prior  and  convent  of  the  Carmelites  at 

Westminster.  Calais,  of  20  marks  yearly  in  aid  of  their  sustenance,  at  the  hands  of  the 

treasurer  of  the  town.  By  p.s. 

July  1.  Inspeximus  and  confirmation  to  Robert  Bold,  esquire,  of  letters  patent 

Westminster,  of  the  king's  father  Richard,  duke  of  York,  dated  at  Chester,  13  September 
1460,  being  a  grant  to  him  for  life  of  tlie  office  of  constable  of  his  castle  of 
Dynbrigh  in  North  Wales,  with  the  accustomed  fees. 

For  lOs,  paid  in  the  hanaper. 

Dec.  2.  Grant  for  life  to  Eichard  Barowe  of  the  office  of  keeper  of  le  Nether - 

Westminster,  warde  within  the  king's  forest  of  Ingilwode,  with  the  accustomed  fees. 

By  ps. 

Nov.  24.        The  like  to  Ralph  Manser,  for  his  good  fei*vice  to  the  king's  uncle  the 
Westminster,  earl  of  Salisbury,  of  the  office  of  one  of  the  king's  foresters  of  his  forest 
of  Inglewode,  co.  Cumberland,  with  the  accustomed  fees,  as  he  had  it 
before.  By  p.s. 

The  like  to  John  Alcok  of  the  office  of  forester  within  the  king's  forest 
of  Inglewode,  with  the  accustomed  fees,  in  the  same  manner  as  Thomas 
Garthe  had  it  of  the  grant  of  Henry  A^. 

Dec.  3.  Grant,  during  the    minority  of  the  heir,   to  Margaret   late   the    wife 

Westminster,  of  James  Pykeryng,  esquire,  son  and  heir  of  James  Pykeryng,  knight, 
deceased,  for  the  relief  of  herself  and  her  seven  children,  of  the  custody 
of  a  messuage  and  4  acres  of  land  in  Ellerton,  co.  York,  in  the  king's 
hands  by  reason  of  the  minority  of  James  Pykeryng,  kinsman  and  heir  of 
the  said  knight,  with  the  marriage  of  the  heir. 

Nov.  30.        Ratificalion  of  the  estate  which  John  Burton,  chaplain,  has  as  parson  of 
Westminster,  the  parish  church  of  Thornton  in  Lonesdale,  co,  York. 

Dec.  1.  Presentation  of  William   Ludford,  chaplain,   to  the  parish  church  of 

Westminster.  Burford  called  *  le  Netherpersonage '  of  Burford,  in  the  diocese  of  Hereford, 
void  by  the  death  of  William  Brower. 


1  EDWARD  IV^Pabt  II.  61 


1461.  Membrane  4. 

Nov.  25.        Tntpeximus  and  confirmation  to  the  abbot  and  conyent  of  Bukfast,  co. 
Westminster.  Devon,  of  the  following : — 

1.  A  charter  of  Henry  II.     [ManaiticonJ] 

2.  A  charter  dated  22  January,  4  Edward  III.   [Charter  Rollj  4  Ed- 

ward III. y  No,  11],  inspecting  and  confirming  a  charter  dated  at 
St.  Edmunds,  18  Kovember,  1  Richard  I.,  being  a  confirmation  to 
them  of  possessions  and  a  grant  of  divers  liberties. 

3.  Letters  patent  dated   12  July,  30  Edward  HI.,  being  a  grant  in 

mortmain  to  them  of  the  manor  of  Killebury,  co.  Devon,  which  the 
king  had  of  the  feoffment  of  William  Mugge,  king's  derk,  worth 
bOs,  4d.  yearly,  as  appears  by  an  extract  made  by  Richard  Hudy, 
escheator  in  the  county.  For  30^.  paid  in  the  hanaper. 

Nov.  21.  Inspexifttus  and  confirmation  to  the  dean  and  canons  of  Wolvernehampton 
Weitminster.  of  letters  patent  dated  30  March,  2  Richard  II.,  inspecting  and  confirming 
letters  patent  dated  12  December,  48  Edward  III.,  being  an  exemplification, 
at  the  request  of  Richard  Fostell,  then  dean,  of  a  charter  dated  7  May, 
2  Edward  III.  [ilfona^/icofi]  inspecting  and  confirming  to  John  de  Mel- 
bourn,  then  dean,  charters  of  Edward  the  Confessor,  William  I.,  Henry  II., 
and  Henry,  duke  of  Normandy  and  Aquitaine  and  count  of  Anjou. 

For  208,  paid  in  the  hanaper. 

Nov.  18.         General  pardon  to  William  Pyke  alias  Peeke  of  Plympton  Earle,  co. 
Westminster.   Devon,  *  marchant.' 

Dec.  2.  Grant  for  life  to  the  king's  kinsman  John,  earl  of  Worcester,  of  the  office 

Westminster,   of  constable  of  the  Tower  of  London,  with  the  accustomed  fees.  By  p.s. 

Nov.  30.         Grant  for  life  to  John  Aust3m  of  the  office  of  keeper  of  the  keys  of  the 

Westminster,   new  work  in  the  upper  bailivnck  of  the  king's  castle  of  Wyndesore,  co. 

Berks,  with  '  lodecroft  *  below  the  castle,  from  7  May  last,  receiving  4d,  daily 

with  all  due  profits  at  the  hands  of  the  constable  of  the  castle.  By  p.8. 

Dec.  2.  The  like  to  John  Russell  of  the  office  of  the  custody  of  the  king's 

Westminster,  artillery  within  his  castle  of  Caresbroke,  Isle  of  Wight,  from  4  March  last, 

receiving  wages  of  3d.  daily  from  the  issues  of  the  castle  or  lordship  of 

Caresbroke.  By  p.s. 

Dec.  7.  The  like  to  William  Staveley,  for  his  good  service  for  fifteen  years  at 

Westminster.  Calais  and  at  sea,  and  because  he  was  wounded  and  probably  maimed  for 
life  in  the  company  of  the  king's  kinsman  Richard,  earl  of  Warwick,  resist- 
ing the  Spaniuds  and  their  caracks,  of  the  money  levied  from  aliens  in  the 
said  town.  By  p.8. 

Membrane  3. 

Nov.  17.         The  like  to  William  Louther,  son  of  Hugh  Louther,  of  the  office  of 
Westminster,   forester  of  the  upper  ward  of  the  king's  forest  of  Ingelwode,  with  the  accus- 
tomed wages  at  the  hands  of  the  keeper  of  the  king's  forests  beyond  Trent 
or  his  lieutenant  in  the  said  forest.  By  p.s. 

Nov.  26.         The  like  to  Margaret,  duchess  of  Somerset,  of  166/.  13«.  id.  yearly  from 

Westminster.  Michaelmas,  39  Henry  YL,  from  the  king's  petty  custom  in  the  port  of 

London  and  the  same  at  the  receipt  of  the  Exchequer,  in  lieu  of  a  grant 

and  confirmation  to  her  of  the  same  sums  in  dower  by  letters  patent  dated 

9  July,  surrendered.  By  K. 

Nov.  24.         iMpeximui  and  confirmation  to  the  abbot  and  convent  of  Wonboume,  of 
Westminster,   the  Cistercian  order,  of  the  following  : — 

!•  A  charter  of  Stephen  as  follows  :— 

S,   rex    Anglorum  archiepiscoptSy  eputcopts^  abbattbus,  eamitibuSj 
JuHiciariiSyVtcecamiiilnUjbaronibus  et  omnibus  ministris  etjidelibus 


62  CALENDAR  OF  PATENT  BOLLS. 


1461,  Membrane  B^-cont. 

suis  JFVancM  et  Anglis  salutem.  Sdatis  me  eanceaisie  et  am- 
Jirmasse  in  perpeiuam  elemosinam  ecclesie  ganete  Marie  de 
Woubomia  et  monaehis  ibidem  deo  servientibus  pro  salute  mea  et 
Matildis  regine  uxoris  mee  et  puerorum  meorum  quod  imi  et 
succes9ores  sui  in  perpetuum  habeant  libert€Uem  et  visum  franci- 
plegii  apud  Wouborn  per  amnes  terras  quas  Hugo  de  Bolebeth 
eii  dedit  et  in  omnibus  terris  et  tenementis  qucu  habent  ex  dona 
Henrid  de  Clynton  et  Hugoms  Malet  apud  Swaneboum  et  Soli' 
buriam.  Quare  volo  et  firmitet  predpio  quod  eadem  ecclesia  et 
monachi  habeant  et  teneant  wejatam  libertatem  et  omnes  alias 
donationes  et  liber tates  que  etsdemfacUe  et  datm  sunt  sicut  carte 
fundatorum  et  donatorum  testantur  quietas  de  shiris  hundredis 
scutagiis  tallagiis  vigiliis  et  ommbus  aliis  rebus  terrenis  et 
demandis  sicut  puram  et  perpetuam  elemosinam  nostram  in  per- 
petuum. Testibus  Comite  Gaufrido  et  Roberto  de  Veer  et  Turg* 
de  Abrenc*  et  WUlelmo  de  Yplresi  et  Fulcone  de  OiUi  et 
Manifenino  Brinton  apud  Warengeford  in  obsidiane, 

2.  A  charter  of  Heiiry  IL  dated  at  Boaen,  confirming  divers  grants,  to 

them.    [^Monasticon,} 

3.  A  charter  dated  Eaemarvany  12  April,  12  Edward  I.,  being  a  grant 

to  them  of  a  market  weekly  on  Fridays  and  a  fair  yearly  at  the 
Exaltation  of  the  Cross  at  their  chapel  of  Old  Wubum,  co.  JBedford. 
Witnesses: — K.  (R. ?),  bishop  of  Bath  and  Wells  and  chancellor, 
Bichard  de  Bargo,  earl  of  Ulster,  William  de  Leybum,  William 
Latimer,  Hngh  de  TurberviU,  Gunceliii  de  Badelesmerej  John  de 
Monte  Alto,  Bogo  de  Enoville,  Eustace  de  Haoche,  Walter  de 
Everesle  and  others. 

4.  Letters  patent  dated  10  August,  21  Bichard  II.,  being  a  grant  to 

them  of  the  advowson  of  the  church  of  Whitchirche,  oo.  Buckingham. 

For  1  mark  paid  ii^  the  hanaper. 

Nov.  27.         General  pardon  to  John  Hatteclif  of  Burton,  co.  Northampton,^  gentilman.' 
WestmioBter.  By  p.s. 

Nov.  25.         Grant  for  life  to  the  king's  kinsman  John,  earl  of  Worcester,  of  the  office 
WeBtminster.  of  justice  in  or  of  North  Wales,  with  the  accustomed  fees. 

ByK. 

Nov.  15.         The  like  to  John  Hudelston,  knight,  of  the  office  of  porter  of  the  king's 
Wegtminrter.  castell  of  Newcastell,  with  the  accustomed  fees.  By  p.s. 

Dec.  1.  Batification  of  the  estate  which  Walter  Petwyn  has  in  the  prebend  called 

Weptminster.  « Walton  *  in  the  collegiate  church  of  Brygenorth,  co.  Salop.  By  p.s. 

Nov.  28.         Grant,  during  pleasure,  to  John  Henbur,  alderman  of  Dinbigh,  for  his 

Westminster,  good  service  to  the  king's  father,  of  the  offices  of  the  rhaglawship  and 

'  wodewardships  *  of  the  king's  lordship  and  land  of  Dynbigh,  with  all  fees 

pertaining  to  the  same.  By  p.s. 

Dec  5.  General  ^rdon  to  Boger  Tong  of  all  offisnces  committed  by  him  before 

Westminster.   14  October  last.  By  K. 

Dec.  3.  General  pardon  to  William   Bowdeler  late  of  Wolscaston,  co.  Salop, 

Westminster.  <  yoman,'  alias  Bowedeler  late  of  Whytyngeslowe,  co.  Salop.  By  p.s. 

Membrane  2. 

Nov.  28.         Confirmation  to  the  warden  and  coUege  of  St.  Mary  Otery,  co.  Devon, 

Westminster,  founded  for   42   persons,   of  licences    by   letters    patent    dated   7   July, 

25  Edward  IIL,  and  10  August,  15  Henry  YI.,  for  the  acquisition  and 

appropriation  in  mortmain  by  them  of  the  church  of  Ippelpen,  co.  Devon, 


1  EDWARD  IV.— Part  n.  63 


X461.  Membrane  2-^coni* 

from  the  alien  abbot  and  convent  of  Foug^res  (de  Fulgeriii)  in  Brittany ; 
and  grant  in  mortmain  to  them  of  all  lands  late  of  Nicholas  Wodegrave  in 
Chellesworth  alias  Chellesworthy,  co.  Devon,  in  the  king's  hands  by  the 
exile  of  the  Jews,  all  lands  in  le  Ford  in  the  parish  of  Ippelpen  which  the 
abbot  of  Fougdres  alienated  to  Henry  att  Forde  and  Juliana  his  wife  without 
licence,  and  a  messuage  and  an  acre  of  arable  land  within  the  manor  of 
Ippelpen  which  he  alienated  to  Henry.  Seuell  without  licence,  all  of  which 
he  held  from  Richard  II.  as  of  the  foundation  of  the  church  of  Ippelpen. 

ByK. 

Sept.  6.  Grant  for  life  to  the  king's  servitor  Thomas  Garnet,  esqture,  of  an 

Westminster,  annuity  of  20/.  from  4  March  last  firom  the  farm  of  the  subsidy  and  ulnage 

of  cloth  within  the  town  and  liberty  of  Bristol  and  from  a  moiety  of  the 

forfeiture.  By  p.8. 

Aug.  9.  The  like  to  the  king's  servitor  Thomas  Brodbrigge  of  the  office  of 

Windsor,      controller  of  the  king's  works  within  his  castle  of  Wyndesore  and  other 

manors  and  lordships  appertaining,  receiving  the  accustomed  fees  from  the 

issues  of  the  castle  or  lordship  at  the  hands  of  the  constable  or  his  lieutenant. 

By  p.s. 

Dec.  3.  Grant  to  the  burgesses  and  good  men  of  Beverley  of  pavage  for  fourteen 

Westminster,  years,  to  be  expended  under  the  supervision  of  John  Holme,  one  of  the  barons 
of  the  Exchequer,  Alexander  Crake,  William  Mayne  and  John  Wilton. 

Dec.  1.  Grant  for  life  to  Philip  Herveys,  esquire,  of  the  office  of  master  of  the 

Westminster,  king's  ordnance  from  18  June  last,  receiving  wages  of  2s,  daily  for  himself, 

6^.  daily  for  his  clerk  and  6d,  daily  for  a  yeoman  from  the  king's  proffers 

and  all  other  debts  at  the  receipt  of  the  Exchequer.  By  p.8. 

Nov.  24.        The  like  to  Robert  Lumley,  page  {pagettus)  of  the  king's  chamber,  of 

Westminster,  the  office  and  custody  of  the  wood  of  Beynclyf,  co.  York,  receiving  the 

accustomed  fees.  By  p.s. 

Dec.  4.  Grant  to  the  king's  servitor  John  Moyll  of  Dynbigh,  a  native  of  Wales, 

Westminster,  of  letters  of  denization.  By  p.s.  and  for  6ff.  8df.  paid  in  the  hanaper. 

Dec.  4.  Grant  for  life  to  John  Swancote  of  Bristol  of  all  lands  called  ^Bamys 

Westminster,  landes '  in  the  parish  of  Clebery  within  the  king's  manor  and  lordship  of 

Cleobery,  co.  Sidop.  By  pji. 

Dec.  4.  The  like  to  Nicholas  Femberton,  for  his  good  service  to  the  king's  father 

Westminster,  and  the  king,  of  the  office  of  the  bailiwick  of  the  lung's  part  of  Cotyngham, 

CO.  York,  receiving  2d.  daily  with  all  other  accustomed  profits.  By  pjs. 

Dec  7.  The  like  to  Balph  Pudsay,  knight,  of  20/.  yearly  from  the  customs  and 

Westminster,  subsidies  of  wools,  hides  and  wool-fells  and  the  petty  custom  in  the  port 

of  Eyngeston  on  HulL  By  K. 

MSMBRANS  1. 

Dec.  8.  Ghrant,  during  pleasure,  to  the  mayor  and  barons  of  Sandwich  of  100/. 

Westminster,  yearly  from  the  customs  and  subsidies  of  all  merchandise  in  the  port  there, 
to  be  expended  with  20/.  provided  by  themselves  on  the  vralls  and  fortifica- 
tions of  the  town  and  the  entrance  to  the  port  by  the  supervision  of  John 
Fogge,  knight,  John  Scotte,  knight,  and  John  Oxenden  or  their  deputies. 

By  p.8. 
Dec.  3.  Appointment  of  the  king's  kinsman  Richard,  earl  of  Warwick,  to  execute 

Westminster,  the  office  of  steward  of  England  at  the  trial  of  Henry  VI.  and  other  rebels, 
who  murdered  the  king's  father  Richard,  duke  of  York,  M  Wakefield, 
[Foedera,] 

Dec.  7.  General  pardon  to  John  Assh  alias  Wakerley,  esquire.  By  p.8. 

Westminster. 


64  CALENDAR  OF  PATENT  E0LL8. 


1461.  Memhrane  1 — cont. 

Dec.  8.  Grant  for  life  to  William  Spenser  of  a  pension  of  10/.  jearlj  from  the 

Westminster,  parish  church  of  Botherham,  co.  York,  at  the  hands  of  the  abbot  and 

convent  of  Bonghforth.  By  p.8. 

Dec.  11.         The  like  to  Edward  Kjogdon,  one  of  the  yeomen  of  the  crown,  of  the 

Westminster,  office  of  the  bailiwick  of  Surrey  aliiis  *  Bagshotes  bailly  *  in  the  king's 

forest  of  Wyndesore,  receiving  the  accustomed  fees  from  the  issues  of  the 

counties  of  Oxford  and  Berks.  By  p.s. 

Dec  8.  The  like  to  the  king's  servant  Ealph  Banastre  of  the  office  of  keeper  of 

Westminster,  the  king's  park  of  la  Vise,  co.  Wilts,  from  6  March  last,  with  fees  as  in  the 

times  of  Edward  III.  or  Bicliard  II.  at  the  hands  ot  the  farmers  or  other 

occupiers  of  the  same  lordship.  By  p.8. 

Dec.  8.  The  like  to  the  said  Balph  of  the  same,  with  fees  as  above  from  the 

Westminster,  issues  of  the  king's  lordship  of  la  Vise.  By  p.8. 

Dec.  9.  Grant  to  the  abbot  and  convent  of  Malmesbury  of  100/.  from  the  first 

Westminster,   moneys  from  the  first  moiety  of  the  tenth  granted  by  the  clergy  of  the 

province  of  Canterbury  in  the  diocese  of  Salisbury  and  the  archdeaconry 

of  Wilts,  in  repayment  of  the  same  sum  lent  by  them  to  the  king.      By  p.8. 

Dec.  7.  Grant  for  life  to  Alvred  Cornburgh,  yeoman  of  the  crown,  of  the  offices 

Westminster,   of  constable  of  the  king's  castle  of  Launceston,  co.  Cornwall,  and  feodary 

or  escheator  of  the  duchy  of  Cornwall  in  the  counties  of  Cornwall  and 

Devon,  from   12   April  last,   receiving  fees  as  in  the  years  18  and  19 

Edward  III.  from  the  issues  of  the  duchy.  By  p.s. 

Dec.  5.  Grant  to  Gresilda,  late  the  wife  of  John  Hende  the  elder,  esquire,  and  her 

Westminster,  heirs  and  assigns  of  the  lordship  or  manor  of  Panfeld,  alias  the  priory  of 
Pannfeld  with  all  lands,  tenements,  woods,  rents,  services,  and  appurten- 
ances in  Essex  and  the  city  of  London,  at  the  service  of  a  red  rose  at 
Midsummer.  By  p.s. 

Dec.  4.  Mandate  to  all  bailiffs  and  others  to  permit  Jolm  Stedeman,  a  native   of 

Westminster.  Witsun  in  Scotland,  who  has  taken  an  oath  of  fealty,  to  inhabit  the  realm  of 

England  and  enjoy  his  goods  peaceably.  By  p.s. 

Dec.  12*         The  like  for  Adam  Belle,  *  brewer,'  a  native  of  Benale  in  the  parish  of 
Westminster.  St.  Cuthbert  in  Scotland,  dwelling  at  Canterbury,  in  England.  By  p.s. 

Dec.  12.         Grant  for  life  to  John  Norwode,  esquire,  of  the  office  of  constable  of 

Westminster,  the  king's  castle  of  Quenesburgh,   co.  Kent,  and  a  mill  adjacent,  from 

4  March  last,  receiving  fees  as  in  the  time  of  Eichard  II.  or  Edward  III. 

from  the  issues  of  the  lordship  or  hundred  of  Middelton  in  ihe  same  county, 

with  all  other  accustomed  profits.  By  p.8. 

Vacated  because  elsewhere  in  this  year. 

Membrane  2ld. 

Aug.  8.  Commission  to   William  Seintgeorge  and  Thomas  Bnrgoyne  to  arrest 

Windsor.      John  Folde  and  Thomas  Aydrop,  yeomen,  and  bring  them  before  the  king 
in  conncil. 

Aug.  1 .  Commission  to  John  Dynham,  esquire,  and  Walter  Baleygh  to  enter  into 

Westminster,  the  manors  of  Boroneshele,  Morton,  Potteford  and  Parkham,  cos.  Devon  and 
Cornwall,  and  other  lands  in  the  Fame  counties  late  of  Baldwin  Fulforth, 
knight,  and  Elisabeth  his  wife,  and  to  receive  the  issues  of  the  same  firom 
3  April  last  to  4  November  next  and  deliver  them  to  the  said  Elizabeth  for 
the  sustenance  of  herself  and  her  children,  and  to  remove  intruders. 

By  p.s. 

Membrane  20d, 

Aug.  14.         Commission  to  John  Duram,  John   Breknok,   William   Foweler   and 
Westminster.  Edmund  Brudnell  to  deliver  tlie  gaol  of  Ayllesbury  of  John  Parker  alias 
Dyne  and  Paul  Pai'ker  alieu  Dyne. 


1  EDWARD  IV.— Part  H.  66 


1461.  MSMBRANB   18df. 

July  21.         Commission  to  Walter  Wratteslej,  esquire,  Henry  Wrattesley,  esquire, 
Westminster,  and  Ralph  Wolseley  to  arrest  Edmund  Basset  and  bring  him  before  the 
king   in  council   to  answer  for  certain   offences  against  the  statute  in 
Parliament  at  Gloucester,  2  Richard  II. 

Sept.  22.         Commission  to  the  justices  of  the  peace  in  the  county  of  Buckingham, 
Westminster,  the  sheriff  of  the  county  and  the  m»yor  of  Ohepyng  Wycombe  to  arrest 
William  Spereroan,  *  sumnour,'  and  Roger  Bent,  *  corveser,*  and  bring  them 
before  the  king  in  Chancery. 

'Aug.  17-         Commission  to  Roger  Walkeden,  John  Fox,  Thomas  Wydder  and  the 

Westminster,  constable  of   Barnet  to   arrest  John   Blakeney  and   Isabel  his  wife  ond 

Thomas  Parker   of  Barnet, '  taylour,'  and  bring  them  before  the  king  in 

council.  By  C. 


Mbmbranb  \7d. 

Sept.  5.  Commission  of  oyer  and  terminer  to  the  king's  kinsmen  John,  duke  of 

Bristol.  Suffolk,  and  Henry,  earl  of  Essex,  and  John  Audeley  of  Audeley,  Richard 
Fenys  of  Dacre,  William  Hastynges  of  Hastynges,  John  Sturton  of  Sturton, 
William  Herbert  of  Herbert,  John  Markham,  Robert  Danby,  William 
Yelverton,  Peter  Ardern,  knights,  Richard  Byngham,  Nicholas  Ayssheton, 
Robert  Danvers,  Walter  Moyle,  John  Nedeham,  Richard  Chok,  William 
Canynges,  mayor  of  Bristol,  Thomas  Yonge  and  the  sheriffs  in  the  counties 
of  Gloucester,  Hereford,  Somerset,  Worcester  and  Stafford  and  the  town  of 
Bristol.  By  K. 


Mbmbranb  I6d. 

Nov.  10.         Commission   to  Nicholas    Carrewe,   esquire,   to    take  and   keep  safely 
Westminster.  Nicholas  Carrewe  son  and  heir  of  Thomas  Carrewe,  esquire,  deceased,  tenant 
in  chief,  whose  custody  and  marriage  belong  to  the  king. 


Mbmbranb  I4td. 

Aug.  12.         Commission  of  oyer  and  terminer  to  the  king's  brother  George,  duke  of 

Westminster.  Clarence,  John  Audeley  of  Audeley,  Walter  Devereux  of  Ferres,  knight, 

Walter  Herbert  of  Herbert,  knight,  Thomas  Herbert,  esquire  of  the  body, 

William  Herbert,  esquire,  John  Don,  esquire,  John   Welford,  John  Kene 

and  Hugh  Huntley  in  South  Wales.  By  K. 

Sept.  22.         Commission  to  the  justices  of  the  peace  in  the  county  of  Buckingham, 
Westminster,   the  sheriff*  of  the  county  and  the   mayor  of  Chepyng  Wycombe  to  arrest 
William  Spereman, '  sumnour,'  and  Roger  Bent,  '  corveser/  and  bring  them 
before  the  king  in  Chancery. 

Oct,  29.  Commission  to  the  mayor  and  bailiffs  of  Sandwich  and  Robert  Spaldyng, 

Westminster,  seijeant  at  arms,  to  enquire  into  the  complaint  of  Martin  de  Sarres  of 
Gascony,  merchant,  that  when  he  had  taken  a  ship  of  100  tons  called  le 
Seyni  John  of  Seynt  John  de  Luce  of  Guyne  laden  with  wines,  belonging  to 
himself  and  Michael  de  SaiTate,  to  London  under  safe  conduct  of  Henry 
VI.,  and  had  discharged  the  wines  and  freighted  it  again  with  cloths  and 
other  merchandise  to  return  under  the  same  safe-conduct  certain  pirates  in 
divers  vessels  of  the  realm  seized  it  on  its  return  at  a  place  called  ^  le 
Downes,'  spoiled  it  of  the  merchandise  and  carried  it  to  Sandwich ,  and  to 
seize  the  ship  and  merchandise. 

u     86914.  £ 


66  '       CA.LENDAR  OF  PATENT  ROLLS. 


1461.  Membranb  12€?. 

Nov.  4.  Commission  to  the   mayor  and  sheriffs  of  the  citj  of  York  to  an*est  and 

Westminster,  imprison  seditious  vagabonds  within  the  city  and  lib^j  of  York. 

Nov.  13.  Commission  to  the  king's  brothers  George,  duke  of  Clarenoe,  and 
Westminster.  Richard,  duke  of  Gloucester,  his  kinsmen  Richard,  eurl  of  Warwick,  Ralph, 
earl  of  Westmoreland,  and  William,  earl  of  Kent,  and  John  Nevill  of 
Mountague,  Ralph  de  Graistok,  John  Scrope  of  Bolton,  William  Hastjnges 
of  Hastynges,  Thomas  Lumley  and  John  Hudleston,  knights,  Thomas 
Lamplewe,  Richard  Salkeld^  John  Denton,  John  Skelton,  Roland  Vaux  and 
Morisbj  to  array  all  the  king's  subjects  of  the  county  of  Cumber- 
land for  defence  against  his  enemies  of  Scotland  and  Henry  VL  and 
Margaret  his  wife  and  their  adherents. 

The  like  to  the  sai<l  dukes  and  earls,  John  Nevill  of  Mountague,  Ralph 
Graystok,  John  Scrope  of  Bolton,  William  Hastynge  of  Hastynge,  Thomas 
Loniley  and  Robert  Ogle,  knights,  George  Lomley,  Bertram  Herbotell, 
Gerard  Wydryngton,  Robert  Maners  and  William  Ogle  in  the  county  of 
Northu  m  berliuid. 

The  like  to  the  said  dukes  and  earls,  John  Nevill  of  Mountague,  Ralph  de 
Graystok,  John  Scrop  of  Bolton,  William  Hastynges  of  Hastynges,  Thomas 
Lomley,  James  Strangways,  John  Conyers,  Robert  Constable,  John  Melton, 
John  Constable  and  John  Say  veil,  knights,  Richard  Strangways,  James 
Strangways,  William  Burgh,  Ralph  Assheton,  Edmund  Hastynges,  Robert 
Hilliard  and  John  Hatfeld  in  the  county  of  York. 

The  like  to  the  said  dukes  and  earls,  John  Nevill  of  Mountague,  Ralph 
de  Graystok,  John  Scrope  of  Bolton,  William  Hastynge  of  Hastynge, 
Thomas  Lomley,  Robert  Ogle,  Thomas  Parre  and  Richard  Musgrave, 
knights,  Thomas  Middelton,  William  Parre,  John  Parre  and  Richard 
Musgrave,  esquire,  in  the  county  of  Westmoreland. 


Mbmbranb  \ld. 

Oct.  28.         Commission  to  William  Fawconer  and  Robert  Nixon  to  arrest  Edward 
Weatminntcr.   Catayn  and  bring  him  before  the  king  in  council. 

Fragment  of  a  commission  directed  to  Ghiliard  DureforJ  of  Duras,  knight, 

Walter  Blount,  knight,  Otho  Worsley  and  William  Pyrton. 


Mbmbranb  lOd. 

Aug.  17.  Commission  to  the  king's  kinsmen  John,  duke  of  Norfcdk,  John,  duke  of 
Westminster.  Suffolk,  and  John  de  Warenne,  knight,  and  John  Bourghchier  of  Bamers, 
Miles  Stapulton,  William  Chamberleyn,  and  William  Yelverton,  knights, 
Henry  None,  Richard  Sotheweil,  Gilbert  Debynham,  John  Tymperley,  John 
Fyncham  and  the  sheriff*  to  enquire  into  all  robberies,  murders  and  other 
crimes  in  the  county  of  Norfolk  and  arrest  and  imprison  the  offenders. 

Oct.  12.  Commission  to  the  king's  kinsman,  Richard,  earl  of  Warwick,  Edmund 

Westminster.  Browegi-eyne,  mayor  of  Coventry,  Henry  Boteler,  John  Grewel^  Thomas 

Huggeford,  Richard  Hotofte  and  John  Beaufitz,  to  enquire  into  certoin 

treasons,  insurrections,  felonies,  trespasses  and  other  offences  within  the 

said  city  and  liberty. 

Oct.  18.        CommJPBion  to  the    king's  kinsman  John  earl  of   Worcester,  William 

Wefltminjiter.    Seyntgeorge,  knight,  John  Cheyne,  William  Hasylden,  Richard,  Haytfeld, 

and  Walter  Taylard  to  inquire  into  divers  alleged  extortions  and  oppressions 

practised  by  Simon  White,  bailitt'of  Litlyngton,  co.  Cambridge,  and  Richard 

Beeston,  bailiff  of  Stouedon,  co.  Hertford,  under  colour  of  their  offices. 


1  EDWARD  IV.— Part  II.  6^ 


1461.  Membrane  \0d — cont. 

Oct.  20.  Commission  to  the  king's  kinsmen  John,  duke  of  Norfolk,  John,  duke  of 

Westminfiter.  Suffolk,  and  Jolin  de  Warenne,  knight,  and  Miles  Stapulton,  knight, 
William  Chamberleyn,  knight,  Henry  None,  Gilbert  Debynham,  John 
Tymperley,  Richard  Soihewell,  John  Fyncheam,  George  Wyseman,  John 
Twyer,  William  Rokwode  and  the  sheiiff  of  Norfolk  to  take  the  castle  of 
Bokenham,  co.  Noi-folk,  into  the  king's  hands  and  remove  John  Knyvet 
and  William  Knyver,  esquires,  from  the  custody  thereof  and  arrest  and 
imprison  any  who  resist.  The  said  castle  and  the  manors  of  Old  Bokenham, 
New  Bokenham,  Tybenham,  Bokenham  Lathye  and  two  parts  of  the 
tnanor  of  Gryshagh  in  Wymondham  were  taken  into  the  hands  of  the  late 
king  by  virtue,  of  an  inquisition  made  at  Bedyngham  on  Thursday  before 
All  Saints,  99  Henry  YI.,  before  Richard  Suthwell,  late  eseheator  In  the 
county,  but  the  said  John  and  William  Knyvet  entered  into  the  same  on 
17  November  and  have  held  them  since.  The  king  accordingly  by  letters 
patent  ordered  the  said  William,  Gilbert,  John,  Richard,  John,  George, 
John  and  William  and  William  Harleston,  esquire,  eseheator  of  Norfolk, 
to  ti^e  the  same  into  his  hands  and  remove  the  said  John  and  William  and 
their  adherents;  and  the  said  Gilbert^  John  Twyer  and  Richard  have 
certified  in  Ohaneery  that  on  Tuesday  before  St.  Matthew  last  thev  entered 
the  outer  ward  (cugtodiam)  of  the  castle  to  the  foot  of  a  brieve  called 

*  a  draght  brigge '  across  the  water  and  found  it  raised  so  that  they  could 
not  enter,  and  Alice,  wife  of  the  said  John  Knyvet,  appeared  in  a  little 
tower  over  the  inner  foot  of  the  bridge,  keeping  the  castle  with  slings, 

*  paveises,*  faggots,  timber  and  other  armaments  of  war  and  assisted  by 
William  Toby  of  Old  Bokenham,  *  gentilman,'  and  others  to  the  number  of 
fifty  persons^  armed  with  swords,  *  glayves,'  bows  and  an'ows,  and  addressed 
them  as  follows  ^-*-'  Maister  Twyer,  ye  be  a  justice  of  th0  pees  and  J  require 
yoa  to  kepe  the  ^peas  for  I  well  nott  leve  the  possession  of  this  castell  to 
dye  therfore,  and  if  ye  begyn  to  breke  the  peas  or  make  any  waiTe  to  gete 
the  place  of  me  I  shall  d^ende  me,  for  lever  I  had  in  suche  wyse  to  dye 
thim  to  be  slayne  when  my  husbond  cometh  home,  for  he  charget  me  to 
kepe  it,'  so  that  they  were  unable  to  take  the  castle  into  the  king's  hands. 

Oct.  26.  Commission  to  William  Huggeford,  Henry  Ratford  and  Robert  Grevell 
Westminster.  tO'Seiee  Humphrey  Beaufo,  a  minor,  son  and  heir  of  Richard  Beaufo, 
esquire,  deceased,  tenant  in  chief  of  Herny  YI.  of  an  acre  of  land  in 
Hilcrombe  by  the  service  of  the  twentieth  part  of  a  knight's  fee,  as  appears 
by  inquisition  before  John  Rugge,  eseheator  in  the  county  of  Woixsester, 
and  bring  him  before  the  king  in  Chancery. 

Nov.  14.  •  Commission  to  John  Audeley  of  Audeley,  John  Stourton  of  Stonrton, 
Westminster,  knight,  John  Done,  mayor  of  Suthampton,  Maurice  Berkeley,  Thomas 
Uvedale,  John  Ingoldesby,  Walter  Fetyplace,  Robert  Belhous  and  John 
Walker  to  arrest  and  imprison  John  Bryncheley  and  others,  late  servants  of 
Henry,  duke  of  Exeter,  Henry,  duke  of  Somerset,  and  James,  earl  of 
Wilts,  whom  he  has  coUected  to  stir  up  sedition  in  the  county  of 
Southampton  and  the  said  town. 


Membrane  Sd, 

Nov.  24.         Conunission  to  the  mayor  and  aherifis  of  Norwich,  and  Thomas  Elys, 

Westminster.  John  Gylberd,  and  Godfrey  Joe,  aldermen,  to  collect  divers  sums  of  money 

assessed  and  granted  by  the  city  for  the  expenses  of  certain  armed  men 

going  in  the  name  of  the  city  to  resist  the  rebels  in  the  north  when  the 

king  was  there. 

G  2 


68  CALENDAR  OF  PATENT  ROLLS. 


1461.  Membrane  7d, 

Dec.  1.  Commission  of    oyer  and  terminer  to  William  Sejnt  George,  knight, 

Westminster.  John  Chejne,  Thomas  Burgoyn,  Thomas  Lokton,  John  Aiisty,  and 
William  Alyngtoo,  pursuant  to  the  statute  in  Parliament  at  Westminster, 
1  Richard  II.,  on  complaint  by  the  prior  and  convent  of  Bernewell  that 
the  tenants  in  bondage  of  their  manor  of  Chesterton,  co.  Cambridge,  have 
thrown  off  their  allegiance.  For  ^  mark  paid  in  the  hanaper. 

1462. 

Feb.  3.  The  like  to  W.  bishop  of  Ely,  John,  earl  of  Worcester,  William  Seint- 

Westminster,  george,  knight,  Thomas  Gray,  John  Cheyne,  Thomas  Burgoyne,  William 
Haselden,  John  Ansty,  Thomas  Lokton,  and  William  Alyngton,  on  com- 
plaint as  above.  For  ^  mark  paid  in  the  hanaper. 


Membrane  od, 
1461. 

Nov.  26.  Commission  to  Walter  Boyce,  Philip  Cokland,  John  Fenton  and  the 

Westminster,   bailiffs  of  the  '  bailly  '  of  Lincoln  to  arrest  John  Uartlot  alicu  Hardlot  of 
Lincoln, '  coke,'  and  bring  him  beiore  the  king  in  Chancery. 


Membrane  Id. 

Nov.  24.  Commission  to  the  bailiffs  of  Colchester  to  arrest  Hugh  Camden  alias 

Westminster.   Candy  and  bring  him  before  the  king  in  Chancery. 

Dec.  12.  Commission  to  John  Colshull,  Thomas  Clemens,  Walter  Code  and  the 
Westminster,  sheriff  of  Cornwall  to  enquire  into  the  complaint  of  Richard  Burton  and 
William  Jico  tliat  when  in  December,  30  Henry  VI.,  they  and  others 
loaded  a  barge  called  la  Kateryn  of  Bayonne,  of  which  William  de  Suharra 
WAS  master,  with  wine,  iron,  saffi*on  and  other  merchandise  and  took  it  to 
England  under  a  safe-conduct  dated  8  October,  30  Henry  VI.,  and  anchored 
near  St.  Ives  in  Cornwall,  Peter  Trevuwith,  John  Harry  Barowe,  William 
Jack  Hick,  John  Petite,  John  a  Neer,  Hugh  Harry  Barowe  Ghrauud,  John 
Jack,  William  Tr^'skawe,  Peter  Jack  Harry,  Henry  Pevyn,  John  Calmae, 
Jocosus  Amy  11,  John  Andrewe,  Geofirey  Harry  Barowe  and  other  pirates 
seized  and  disposed  of  the  barge  and  merchandise ;  and  to  order  restitution 
and  to  arrest  and  imprison  the  offenders. 


69 


1   EDWARD  rV.— Pabt  m. 


MSilBRANB  27. 

1461. 

Aug.  10.         Greneral  pardon  to  John  Grove  late  of  Westminster,  co.  Middlesex, 
Westminster.    <  yeoman.'  By  K. 

July  20.         Grant  for  life  to  the  king's  servitor  John  Kendale,  esquire,  of  the  office 
WestminBter.  of  controller  of  the  king's  works  within  his  palace  of  Westminster  and 

Tower  of  London  and  elsewhere  within  the  realm,  with  the  accustomed 
fees.  By  K.  by  word  of  mouth. 

Vacated  because  otherwise  below, 

Aug.  10.         Grant  and  confirmation  to  William  Brewster,  king's  chaplain,  of  the 
Westminster,  canonry  and  prebend  which  he  holds  in  the  king's  free  chapel  of  St.  Greorge 

within  Wyndesore  Castle,  void  by  resignation  of  John  Pye.  By  K. 

Aug.  13.         General  pardon  to  John  Broun  of  Berkhamstede,  co.  Hertford,  ^  gentil- 
Westminster.   man '  alias  esquire,  of  all  offences  committed  by  him  before  8  August. 

By  p.s. 

Aug.  12.         Appointment  for  life  of  Thomas  Sandeland  as  king*B  cannoneer  (canona- 
Westminster,   torem)  in  North  Wales  and  the  counties  of  Chester  and  Flint,  receiving  the 
accustomed  fees  at  the  hands  of  the  king's  chamberlain  of  North  Wales. 

By  p.s. 

Aug.  12.         The  like  of  the  said  Thomas  as  master  plumber  in  the  king's  castles 

Westminster,  of  Caern[arvon],  Beaumaris,  Cone  way  and    Hardelagh  in  North  Wales, 

receiving  fees  as  above.  By  p.8. 

Aug.  13.         Grant  for  life  to  Peter  Purcell  of  an  annuity  of  10/.  from  the  lordship  of 

Westminster.  Waghterard  in  Ireland,  late  of  James,  earl  of  Ormond,  and  afterwards 

of  James,  earl  of  Wilts.  By  K. 

Aug.  15.         The  like  to  John   Browne  of  the  office   of  rider  (eguitantis)  in  the 
Westminster,  king's  forest  of  Morff,  co.  Salop,  with  the  accustomed  fees.  By  p.s. 

Vacated  because  before, 

Aug.  8.  Grant,  during  good  behaviour,  to  Thomas  Stratton  of  the  offices  of  clerk 

Windsor,      and  surveyor  of  the  king's  works  within  the  realm,  with  all  wages,  fees, 

liveries,  houses,  '  storehouses,'  lodges,  gardens,  &c.  in  the  same  manner  as 

William  Cly  ve  or  any  other  holder  of  the  same.  By  K. 

Aug.  15.  Appointment,  during  pleasurie,  of  the  mayor,  aldermen  and  commonalty 
Westminster,  of  the  city  of  London  to  the  offices  or  occupations  of  the  packing  of  all 
woollen  cloths,  wool-fells,  skins  of  calves  and  goats,  vessels  of  pewter  and 
other  merchandise  within  the  city  and  its  liberty,  franchises  and  suburbs 
with  the  '  kippyng '  and  '  ponderyng '  of  the  same,  the  supervision  of  the 
measurement  and  weighing  of  the  same  and  the  opening  of  all  customable 
merchandise  at  the  port,  the  office  or  occupation  of  the  carriage  of  wools, 
wool-fells^  tin  and  other  merchandise  between  the  Thames  and  houses 
of  aliens,  the  office  or  occupation  of  the  garbling  of  spices  and  other 
merchandise  at  the  city,  the  office  of  ganger  there,  and  the  office  or  occupation 
of  *  wyredrawers,'  with  the  accustomed  fees. 
Vacated  because  before. 

Aug.  12.         Grant  for  life  to  John  Herbert  of  the  office  of  king's  attorney  in  all  the 

Westminster,  king's  courts  in  England  and  Wales  and  the  counties  of  Kermerdyn  and 

Cardigan  in  South  Wales,  receiving  the  accustomed  fees  at  the  hands  of  the 

king's  chamberlain  of  Kermerdyn  from  the  issues  of  those  counties.     By  K. 


70  •       CALENDAR  OF  PATENT  ROLLS. 


J  461.  Membrane  27 — conJt, 

Aug.  13.         The  like  to  John  Pilkyngton,  esquire  of  the  body,  of  a  hospice  and  four 

'WestmiiiBter.  shops  adjacent  in  the  suburbs  of  London  in  the  parish  of  St.  Botolph  in  the 

ward  of  Aldrvcfagate,'  which  Gilbert  Parre,  esquire,  lately  had  of  the  grant 

of  Henry  VL "  By  p.s. 

Aug.  1 .  The  like  to  James  Thekenesse  that  he  be  king's  chaplain  within  the 

Westminster,  king's   castle   of  Chester   to  celebrate  divine  service   for  the  king  and 

his  progenitors^  receiting  100*.  yearly  for  his  salary  and  6#.  8cf.  for  wine 

and  light  at  mass.  By  p.s. 

MSMBRANB  26. 

July  27.  Licenoe  for  Henry  Oourtenay,  esquire,  brother  and>  heir  of  Thomas 
Westminster.  Courti»nay,  late  earl  of  Devon ,  and  uon  and  heir  of  Thomas  Courtenay,  late 
earl  of  Devon,  to  enter  freely,  without  proving  his  age  or  other  formality, 
into  18/.  6s.  Sd.  yearly  from  the  profits  of  the  county  of  Devon,  the  manor 
and  borough  of  Tyverton  and  the  hundred  there  with  the  advowsons 
of  three  portions  with  cures  in  the  church  there,  the  manor  of  Toppesham, 
the  hundired  of  Harigge,  a  free  fishery  in  the  river  Exe,  8/.  yearly  rent  from 
demesne  lands  in  Holboughtou,  the  manor  of  Chalvelegh  and  the  borough 
there  with  the  advowson  of  the  church,  the  borough  of  Keneford,  the  manor 
of  Musbery  with  the  advowson  of  the  church,  a  uir5ssuage  and  a  carucate 
of  land  in  Broklond  Trille  and  Smalecombe,  a  moiety  of  the  markets  in 
Cruldiche  with  the  profits  of  the  same,  the  hundred  of  Bodelegh,  a  messuage 
called  *  Peti  Bretayne  '  with  a  garden  adjacent  within  the  city  of  Exeter,  a 
messuage  and  8  acres  of  land  in  Newton  Cherlowe,  co.  Devon,  three  knights' 
fees  in  Escoker,  Northcoker  and  Hardyngton,  the  manor  of  Crukern  and 
the  hundred  there  and  the  advowson  of  the  church  and  three  portions  in  the 
same,  the  advowson  of  the  chantry  of  St.  Mary  in  the  same  church  and  the 
cemetery,  the  advowson  of  the  church  of  Hemyngton  and  the  manor  of 
Misterton,  co.  Somerset,  the  manor  of  Hulle  by  Iwemeraynster,  the  manor 
pf  Ebrighton  with  the  advowson  of  tho.  church,  the  advowson  of  the  priory 
of  Lodresse  and  a  knight's  fee  in  Childokford  alias  Childaklord,  co.  Dorset, 
the  manor  of  Sutton  Courtenay  with  the  advowson  of  the  church,  co.  Berks, 
the  manor  of  Wodesdon  with  the  advowson  of  three  portions  of  the  church, 
the  manor  of  Hillesdon,  co.  Buckingham,  the  manor  of  Brommore  with  the 
advowson  of  the  priory  of  Brommore,  and  the  manors  of  Old  Lemyngton 
and  New  Lemyogton,  co.  Southampton,  and  ail  views  of  frank-pledge, 
4^ourts  .le^t,  liberties)  franchises,  privileges,  offices,  markets,  fairs,  warrens 
and  wreck  of  sea  in  all  manors  and  lands  held  by  the  said  earls,  and  to  enjoy 
aU  profito  of  the  same.  By  p.s. 

Aug.  26.  Grant,  during  good  behaviour,  to  the  mayor,  commonalty  and  citizens  of 
Winchcombe.  London  of  the  offices  or  occupations  of  the  packing  of  all  woollen  cloths, 
wool-fells,  skins  of.  calvea  and  goats,  vessels  <rf  pewter  and  other 
merchandise,  the  supervision  of  the  measuring  and  weighing  of  the  same, 
and  the  supervision  of  tlie  opcoing  of  all  customable  merchandise  putting  in 
to  the  port  of  safety,  within  the  liberty,  franchise  and  suburbs  of  the  city, 
the  office  of  the  packing  of  all  woollen  cloths  and  wool-fells  of  lambs,  goats 
and  calves,  with  the  *  kippyng '  and  *  ponderyng '  of  the  same,  and  of  vessels 
of  eleotrum  and  other  merchaiidise,  the  carriage  of  wools,  wool-fells,  tin  and 
other  merchandise  between  tha  Thames  and  houses  of  aliens,  the  office  or 
occupation  oi  the  garbling  of  spices  and  other  merchandise  in  the  city,  the 
office  of  gauger  there  and  the  office  or  occupation  of  *  wynedrawera,'  with  the 
accustomed  fees  and  profits.  By  p.s. 

Sept.  7.  Grant  for   life   to  John   Broun   of  the   offices    of  steward   and   rider 

Bristol.        (eguitatoru)  of  the  king's  forest  of  Morff,  receiving  the  accustomed  fees 

at  the  hands  of  the  king's  bailiffs  of  Brignorth  from  the  issues  of  the  mills 

there.  By  p.s. 


\ 


1  EDWARD  IV.— Pabt  IU.  71 


1461.  Membrane  26 — cont, 

Sept.  14.         Licence  for  John,  abbot  of  St.  Mary's,  Fouutejns,  eo.  York,  to  go  where 
Oxford.,      he  will  within  the  realm,  notwithstanding  that  on  14  August  he  acknow- 
ledged in  Chancery  that  he  was  bound  to  the  king  in  2,000/.  to  be  paid  at 
Michaelmas.  By  p.s. 

June  1.  Grant  for  life  to  the  king's  servitor  Robert  Chattok  of  the  city  of  London 

Westminster,  of  the  office  of  ganger  of  wines,  oils  and  honey  within  the  port  of  Kyngeston 
on  Hull  and  creeks  and  places  belonging  to  it,  with  the  accustomed  fees. 

By  p.s. 

May  7.  Grant  to  the  king's  kinsman  Richai'd,  carl  of  Warwick,  ^f  the  custody  of 

Middleham.    all  lordships,  manors  and  lands  with  knights'  fees  and  advowsons  held  by 

the  king's  uncle  George  Neville,  knight,  lord  Latymer,  within  the  county 

of  York  or  elsewhere,  during  the  idiotcy  of  the  latter,  even  though  no 

inquisition  has  been  taken.  By  other  letters  patent. 


Membrane  25. 

Aug.  19.  Grant  \o  the  king's  servant  Hugh  Shirley  of  10/.  yearly  rent  from  the 

Westminster,   king's  pasture  called  *  Wegenhale '  in   his   lordship   of   Kyngeslane,   co. 

Hereford,  pertaining  to  his  earldom  of  March,  until  he  shall  be  provided 

with  an  office  to  the  same  value.  By  K. 

Aug.  22.  General  pardon  to  Peter  Belie  son   of  John   Belie  of  the  island  of 

Oxford.       Gamesey,  '  sherman,'  for  all  offences  committed  by  him  before  14  August. 

By  p.8. 

Aug.  24.         Grant,  during  pleasure,  from  Easter  last,  to  the  guardian  and  convent 

Oxford.       of  Friars  Minors  of  Oxford  of  50  marks  yearly  at  the   receipt  of    the 

Exchequer,  as  was  granted  to  them    by  Edward  I.  and  other  kings  of 

England.  By  p.s. 

Aug.  12.  Grant  for  life  to  the  king's  kinsman  John,  duke  of  Norfolk,  from  Easter 
Westminster,  last,  of  the  custody  of  the  king's  castle  of  Scardeburgh  and  all  issues  per- 
taining to  the  same  to  the  valne  of  20/.  yearly  with  a  robe  yearly  at 
Christmas  at  the  great  wardrobe,  and  25  marks  yearly  from  the  issues  of 
the  town  of  Scardeburgh  and  26  marks  yearly  from  the  issues  of  the  county 
of  York.  By  p.s. 

Aug.  12.         The  like  to  John  Tymperley,  esquhe,  servant  of  John,  duke  of  Norfolk, 

Westminster,   of  a  yearly  rent  of  20/.  from  the  issues  of  the  counties  of  Norfolk  and 

Suffolk,  until  he  shall  be  provided  with  an  office  tu  the  same  value.   By  p.s. 

Aug.  9.  Grant,  during  pleasure,  to  John  Spevy,  soldier  of  Calais,  of  the  office  of 

Westminster,   purveyor  of  timber  for  the  king's  works  in  Calais  and  carriage  for  the 
same,  receiving  the  accustomed  fees  at  the  hands  of  the  treasurer  of  Calais. 

By  p.s. 

Aug.  29.         Grant,  during  good  behaviour,  to  Thomas  Walker,  clerk,  of  the  office  of 

Silbury.       chirographer  and  keeper  of  the  king's  writs  and  records  of  the  Common 

(Serlebiiry.)    Bench  of  Ireland,  receiving  the  accustomed  fees.  By  p.8. 

Grant  for  life  to  Petronilla  Mountferand,  late  the  wife  of  Bertram,  lord 
Mountferand,  on  account  of  her  poverty,  of  an  annuity  of  20/.  at  the 
Exchequer  until  she  shall  be  otherwise  provided  for.  By  p.s. 

Aug.  31.         General  pardon  to  Thomas  Plotte,  late  of  Gravesende,  co.  Kent,  *  maryner,* 
Combury.    of  all  oifences  committed  by  him  before  18  August.  By  p.s^ 

July  22.  Grant  to  John  de  Kyrton  of  the  office  of  the  bailiwick  of  Boston,  co. 

WestmiDster.    Lincoln,  during  the  minority  of  Henry,  son  and  heir  of  Edmund,  late  carl 

of  Bichmond,  with  the  accustomed  fees.  By  p.s. 


72  CALENDAR  OP  PATENT  ROLLS. 


1461*  Membrane  25 — cont, 

Sept.  4.  Appointment  of  John  Smert  as  the  king's  principal  herald  and  Chirter 

Bristol.       King  of  Arms ;  and  grant  to  him  for  life  from  Easter  lastt  of  40/.  yearly 
irom  the  farm  and  issues  of  the  counties  of  London  and  Middlesex. 

By  p. 8. 

July  25.  Grant  for  life  to  Edward  Hardgill,  one  of  the  yeomen  of  tbe  crown,  of  6i/. 

Westminster,   daily  for  his  fee,  from  4  March  last,  from  the  fee  farm  of  the  town  or  city 

of  Norwich.  By  K. 

Mandate  in  pursuance  to  the  mayor,  keepers,  citizens,  bailiffs,  or  sheriffs 

of  Norwich. 

Grant  for  life  to  John  Langford,  one  of  the  yeomen  of  the  crown,  of  6</. 
daily  for  his  fee,  from  4  March  last,  from  the  fee  farm  of  the  city  or  town 
of  Worcester.  By  K. 

Mandate  in  pursuance  to  the  mayor,  sheriffs,  &c.  of  Worcester. 

Sept.  3.  Grant  for  life  to  John  Dndman,  late  keeper  of  the  king's  parks  of  Cosham, 

Bristol.        CO.  Wilts,  on  account  of  his  age  and  poverty,  of  3c?.  daily  at  the  hands  of  the 

farmers  of  the  king's  lordship  and  manor  of  Cosham.  By  K. 

Sept.  7«  The  like  to  Patrick  Cogle,  clerk,  of  the  ofi&ce  of  clerk  of  the  crow  n  of 

Bristol.        Ireland,  receiving  fees  of  10  marks  yearly  from  the  issues  of  the  county  of 

Dublin,  with  all  other  accustomed  profits.  By  p.s. 


1462.  Membrane  24. 

Feb.  20.  Confirmation  for  life  to  Frances  Mull,  late  the  wife  of  William  Mull, 

Westminster,  knight,  of  the  manors  of  Avenbury  and  Alaynesmore  and  divers  lands  and 
tenements  in  Tregeit,  co.  Hereford,  with  all  lands,  rents,  ser%'ices,  advowsons, 
knights'  fees  and  other  appurtenances.  Thomas  Mull,  father  of  the  said 
William  was  seised  of  the  above  and  granted  them  to  William  and  Frances 
and  the  heirs  of  the  body  of  William  with  remainder  to  the  heirs  of  the  body 
of  Juliana  de  Rous,  rendering  to  him  for  his  life  10/.  yearly  for  the  manor  of 
Alaynesmore ;  and  they  acscordingly  were  seised  of  the  same,  and  Frances 
held  them  after  the  death  of  William,  until  by  reason  of  an  Act  of  Parlia- 
ment  at  Westminster,  4  November,  they  were  taken  into  the  king's  hands. 
The  king  by  letters  patent  dated  7  December  granted  licence  to  Frances  to 
enter  into  the  same,  but  on  account  of  an  ambiguity  the  present  letters  were 
™^'6*  By  K.  and  for  \  mark  paid  in  the  hanaper. 

Feb.  23.  Grant  for  life  to  Thomas  Gille  the  younger  of  the  office  of  the  water- 

Westminster.  baiHwick  in  the  port  of  Dertmouth  and  places  and  creeks  adjacent,  with 
profits  as  in  the  last  year  of  Edward  III.  and  the  first  of  Richard  II. 

Vacated  because  otherwise  below.  By  K. 

Feb.  26.  Exemption  for  life  of  Ralph  Botiller,  knight,  lord  of  Sudeley,  on  account 

Westminster,  of  his  debility  and  age,  from  personal  attendance  in  council  or  Parliament, 
and  from  being  made  collector,  assessor  or  taxer  of  tenths,  fifteenths  or 
other  subsidies,  commissioner,  justice  of  the  peace,  constable,  bailiff  or  other 
minister  of  the  king,  or  trier,  arrayer  or  leader  of  men-at-arms,  ai-chers,  or 
hobelers.     And  he  shall  not  be  compelled  to  leave  his  dwelling  for  war. 

1461.  "'  ^ 

Dec.  23.  Grant  in  fee  simple  to  Thomas  Walgrave,  knight,  of  the  manors  of 

Westmmster,  Merkis  in  Raydon  Hall,  Morefes  in   Waldingfeld,  Overhall  in  Bures  and 
Silvestres  Hall  in  Bures,    co.    Suffolk,   and  Foxherd  Hall,   Weston  and 
•  Listen,  CO,  Essex,  lately  belonging  to  James  Ormond,  earl  of  Wilts. 

By  p.s. 


1  EDWARD  IV.— Pabt  III.  73 


.  1462.  Membrane  24 — cant. 

Feb.  23.  Belease  to  the  provost  and  college  of  St.  Mary's,  Eton  by  Windsor,  co. 

Westminster.   Buckingham,  of  all  fines,  amercements,  issues,  forfeitures,  reliefs,  scutage.9 

and  other  debtH  due  from  them  to  the  king  before  1  October  last,  and  all 

actions  for  the  same.  By  K. 

Feb.  25.  Grant  for  life  to  the  king's  servitor  Roger  Grandorge, '  gentilman,'  of  SO/. 

Westmiaster.  yearly  out  of  an  annuity  of  38/.  from  the  priory  of  Monkenferlowe,  co. 

Wilts,  granted  by  Henry  VI.  to  the  college  of  Eton  at  the  hands  of  the 

prior.  By  K. 

Feb.  23.  Grant  in  frank  almoin,  from  4  March  last,  to  William  Westbury,  the 

Westminster,  provost,  and  the  college  of  St.  Mary's,  Eton  by  Windsor,  co.  Buckingham, 
that  they  may  pray  for  the  good  estate  of  the  king  and  Cicely  his  mother 
and  for  their  souls  after  death  and  the  souls  of  the  king's  father  Richard, 
late  duke  of  York,  and  his  progenitors,  of  the  hospital  of  St.  l^eter  by 
Windsor,  the  manors  of  Bledlowe,  co.  Buckingham,  and  Cottesford,  co. 
Oxford,  formerly  parcel  of  the  alien  priory  of  Okebourn,  the  alien  priory 
of  Stratfeldsay  with  all  its  possessions  in  the  counties  of  Southampton  and 
Berks,  the  portion  of  the  alien  prioress  of  Claruissel  {de  Claro  Rivalo) 
in  the  church  of  Mapilderham  alias  Mapildram,  co.  Oxford,  the  alien 
priories  of  Cogges  and  Mynstrelovell  in  the  same  county  with  their 
possessions,  the  manors  or  alien  priories  of  Cretyng  and  Everdon,  cos. 
Suffolk  and  Northampton  with  their  appurtenances,  the  alien  priories  of 
Dockyng  and  Sporle,  co.  Norfolk,  with  their  appurtenances,  a  yearly  impost 
(appartum)  of  13s.  4d,  which  the  prior  and  convent  of  Thetford  used  to 
render  to  the  house  of  Cluny,  a  pension  of  2  marks  yearly  which  the  prior 
and  monks  of  Horsham  St.  Faith,  co.  Norfolk,  used  to  render  to  the  abbot 
of  Conches,  a  yearly  pension  of  40f .  from  the  church  of  Alveley,  co.  Essex, 
the  priory  of  Leomynstre,  co.  Sussex,  with  its  appurtenances,  the  manor  of 
Estwrotham,  co.  Norfolk,  with  its  appurtenances,  parcel  of  the  alien  priory 
of  Okebourn,  the  fruits  of  the  church  of  Elyngham,  co.  Southampton,  the 
manors  or  priories  of  Clatford  and  Hullavyngton,  co.  Wilts,  with  their 
appurtenances,  the  manor  or  lordship  of  Hjnnepedyll  alias  Peydelhynton, 
CO.  Dorset,  lately  belonging  to  the  alien  priory  of  Mortayn,  the  fruits  of  the 
church  of  Sturmynstre  Marchall  and  certain  lands  in  the  couniy  of  Dorset 
late  of  the  alien  house  of  St.  Giles  of  Pont  Omer  (de  ponie  Adomare\  the 
alien  priory  of  Stoke  Courcey,  co.  Somerset,  with  its  appurtenances  and 
100;.  yearly  which  the  abbot  of  Redyng  used  to  render  for  lands  in 
Esthenrith.'  By  K. 

Feb.  20.  Grant  for  life,  from  4  March  last,  to  Laurence   bishop  of  Durham, 

Westminster,  and  William,  earl  of  Kent,  of  the  king*s  manor,  castle    or  lordship   of 
WresuU,  co.  York. 

Feb.  20.  Grant  to  Robert  Knolles,  king's  clerk,  of  the  deanery  of  the  royal  chapel 

Westminster,   of  St.  Burian,  CO.  Cornwall. 

1461. 

Nov.  26.         General  pardon  to  Hugh  Doune  of  Utkynton,  co.  Chester,  *  gentilman,' 
Westminster,  alias  Hugh  Daune,  esquire.  By  p.s. 

Dec.  24.         Grant  in  frank  almoin,  from  3  March  last,  to  the  master  and  scholars  of 

Westminster,   the  college  or  house  of  St.  Michael  within  the  university  of  Cambridge  of 

the  alien  priory  of  Wengale,  co.  Lincoln,  with  its  appurtenances.      By  p.s. 

1462. 

Feb.  1.  Presentation  of  Master  John  Barker  to  the  parish  church  of  Witherne, 

Westminster,  in   the   diocese   of  Lincoln,    void  by  resignation    of  Thomas   Downham, 

chaplain.  By  K. 


74  CALBNDAB  OF  PATENT  ROLLS. 


1462.  Membrane  23. 

Jan.  20.  ■  Innpeximus  and  confirmation  to  the  mayor  and  burgesses  of  Pole  of 
WefltioiDBter.  letters  patent  dated  8  July,  H  Henry  VI.,  being  a  licence  to  them  to  fortify 
the  town  and  port  of  Pole,  and  granting  that  the  port  of  Melcombe  shall  no 
longer  be  a  port  after  St.  Hilary  but  a  creek,  and  that  the  mayor  of  Pole 
shall  have  power  of  receiving  cognisances  of  the  staple  and  other  privileges 
as  does  the  mayor  of  Southampton.  For  208,  paid  in  the  hanaper. 

Feb.  7.  Qrant,  during  pleasure,  to  the  king's  kinsman  John,  earl  of  Worcester, 

Westminster,  of  the  office  of  constable  of  England,  with  the  accustomed  fees. 

By  K.  by  word  of  mouth. 

Feb.  6.  Grant  for  life  to  Bichard  Mu8gi*ave  the  younger,  esquire,  of  the  office  of 

Westminster,  constable  of  the  king's  castle  of  Burham,  co.  Westmoreland,  and  surveyor  of 

the  castle  and  lordship,  with  all  the  accustomed  proiits*  By  p.s. 

Jan.  20.  Grenerai  pardon  to  Thomas  Hay  ward,  clerk.  By  p.s. 

Westminster. 

Feb.  22.  Gi'ant  in  frank  almoin,  from  4  March  last,   to  Kobert  Wodelark  the 

Westminster.  proTOst,  and  the  scholars  of  the  college  of  SS.  Mary  and  Nicholas,  Cambridge, 
[King's],  that  they  may  pray  for  the  good  estate  of  the  king  and  Cicely  his 
mother  and  for  the  soul  of  the  king  after  death  and  those  of  his  father  Bichard, 
late  duke  of  York,  and  his  progenitors, of  the  manor  of  Ruyslepe,  co.Middlesex, 
parcel  of  the  alien  priory  of  Okebourn,  with  a  plot  called  'Northwod  '  and  all 
lands  and  other  appurtenances,  the  manor  of  Willoughton  late  of  the  abbot 
and  convent  of  St.  Nicholas,  Angers,  the  alien  priory  of  AUerton  Maleverer, 
CO.  York,  a  farm  and  rent  of  100^.  from  a  yearly  impost  which  the  prior  of 
Wenlok,  co.  Salop,  used  to  pay  to  the  alien  house  of  la  Charity  of  Cluny, 
the  manors  or  lordships  of  Monkeston  and  Combe,  parcel  of  the  said  priory 
of  Okeburn,  a  yearly  farm  of  40«.  which  the  prior  of  Hilda,  co.  Nottingham, 
pays  to^the  king  from  au  impost  to  the  chief  house  of  the  priory  beyond  seas, 
the  priory  of  Prihaulx  or  manor  of  Stourepriaulx  with  its  appurtenances, 
formerly  pertaining  to  the  abbess  and  convent  of  Saint  Legier  in  Priaulx  in 
Normandy,  with  the  advowson  of  the  same,  the  manor  of  Brighteston 
Deverell,  co.  Wilts,  late  parcel  of  the  alien  priory  of  Okebourn,  tlie  manor 
or  priory  of  Horstede,  co.  Norfolk,  the  priory  of  Wotton  and  the  manor  of 
Molkeley,  co.  Warwick,  with  their  appurtenances,  the  manor  of  Westwortham, 
CO.  Norfolk,  the  priory  of  St.  James  by  Exeter,  co.  Devon,  with  its  appur- 
tenances, the  manor  of  Withiam  aliiis  Withyamme  caUed  '  Monk  en 
Courte,'  the  manor  of  Lesyngham,  co.  Norfolk,  parcel  of  the  priory  of  Ocke- 
bourn,  the  priory  of  Brysette,  co.  Suffolk,  with  all  its  possessions,  and  the 
priory  of  Tofftes,  co.  Norfolk.  By  K. 

Feb.  23.  Grant  to  Thomas  Pylkyngton,  *  gentilman,'  son  of  Robert  Pylkyngton, 

Westminster,  esquire,  and  the  heirs  male  of  his  body  of  the  manor  of  Keppok,  co.  Uriel, 
in  Ireland,  and  all  other  lands  and  i)osses8ions  in  Ardee,  Dundalke,  Barne- 
myth,  Talazhalyn  and  Talazdownhill  in  the  same  county,  late  of  John 
Hadsore  and  forfeited  to  the  crown  through  his  rebellion,  with  knights' 
fees,  courts  leet,  warrens  and  all  other  profits.  By  p.s. 

Feb.  20.  Grant  for  life  to  Thomas  Witham,  from  Michaelmas  Uist,  for  his  good 

Westminster,  service  to  the  king  and  his  father  Richard,  late  duke  of  York,  oij20i.  yearly 

from  the  fee  farm  of  the  town  of  Scardeburgh  and  the  manor  of  Walgrave 

and  from  (JO  acres  of  land  and  the  issues  of  the  town.  By  p.s. 

Feb.  6.  Grant  for  life  to   Richard  Musgrave  the  yonnger,  esquire,  of  all  lands 

W  estminster.  called  '  le  demaynlande  *  pertaining  to  the  castle  of  Burgham  and  three 
messuages  at  Wodeside  and  three  messusges  called  ^  Morehouses '  with  all 
lands  pertaining  to  them  and  all  the  king's  grain  called  *  Ringage  comne ' 
pertaining  to  the  castle  to  be  received  at  Clifton,  all  of  which  do  not  exceed 
the  value  of  10/.  yearly  and  came  to  the  king's  hands  by  virtue  of  an  Act  of 
PHplinnient  at  Westminster,  4  November.  By  p.s. 


1  EDWABD  IV.^Part  IH.  75 


1462.  -  u  .       Me$nbrane  23 — cont. 

Feb.  4.  The  like  to  the  king's  servitor  Henrj  'F^ine  of  the  office  of  one  of  the 

Westminster,  foresters  of   the  king^e  said  forest    (sic)^  receiving  the  accustomed  fees 

from  the  issues  of  the  counties  of  Somerset  and  Dorset  in  the  same  manner 

as  Gilbert  Marty n  in  the  time  of  Edward  III.  By  K. 

Feb.  20.  Grant  to  the  king's  servant  John  Burgh,  gentleman,  and  the  heirs  male 

Westminster,  of  his  l)ody  of  all  the  lands  and  possessions  in  the  county  of  Lincoln  of 
which  John  Maidenwell,  late  of  Kirketon  in  Lindesey,  co.  Lincoln,  gentle- 
man, was  seised,  and  which  were  forfeited  to  the  crown  through  his  rebellion 
and  do  not  exceed  the  yearly  value  of  10/.  By  p.s. 


Membrane  22. 

Jan.  10.  Grant  for  life  to  Henry  Filingley,  one  of  the  yeomen  of  the  king's  cellar, 

Westminster,  of  all  the  lands  and  possessions  which  Laurence  HiUe  had  in  the  counties 

of  Buckingham  and  Berks  and  elsewhere  within  the  realm,  not  exceeding 

the  value  of  12/.  yearly,  forfeited  to  the  crown.  By  p.s. 

Feb.  1.  Grant  to  Joan  Dynham,  widow,  late  the  wife  of  John  Dynham,  knight, 

Westminster,  of  the  custody  of  all  manors,  lands  and  other  possessions  with  advowsons 
late  of  Thomas  Carrewe,  esquire,  from  the  time  of  his  death  during  the 
minority  of  Nicholas  his  son  and  heir,  with  the  marriage  of  the  latter, 
and  so  from  heir  to  heir  if  he  die  during  minority,  without  rendering 
any  account ;  in  furtherance  of  a  like  grant  to  her  by  letters  patent  dated 
6  October,  surrendered,  which  are  invalid  because  the  king  had  then  no  title 
to  the  said  lands,  nor  had  any  inquisitions  been  taken  for  a  month  before. 

By  p.s. 

Feb.  10.  Grant   for  life  to  Robert  Wenyngfon  of  Dertmouth  of  10/.  yearly  from 

WeHtminster.  Michaelmas  last  from  the  customs  and  subsidies  in  the  ports   of  Exeter 

and  Dertmouth.  By  p.s. 

Feb.  10.  Grant  to  the  mayor  and  burgesses  of  Dertmouth  of  30/.  yearly  from  the 

Westminster,  customs  and  subsidies  ia  the  ports  of  Exeter  and  Dertmouth  for  20  years 
from  Michaelmas  last,  in  aid  of  their  expenses  in  the  defence  of  the  borough 
in  chains,  boats  called  '  cobbellys,'  anchors,  great  cords  called  '  cables,'  and 
*  pulleis,'  wages  of  watchmen,  and  cannons  and  powder  and  other  habiliments 
of  war.  By  p.s. 

Jan.  3.  Grant  for   life  to  the  king's  servitor  William  Brandon,   esquire,   and 

Westminster.  Elizabeth  his  wife  of  the  manors  of  Shire  and  Vachery^  co.  Surrey,  of  the 

yearly  value  of  36/.,  in  the  king's  hands  by  forfeiture  of  James,  late  earl  of 

Wilts.  By  p.s. 

Feb.  23.  Presentation  of  Richard  Jhonson,  king's  clerk,  to  the  vicarage  of  Pevesey, 

Westminster,  in  the  diocese  of  Salisbury. 

Feb.  12.  Grant  for  life  to  John  Kendale,  for  his  good  service  to  the  king's  father 

Westminster,  and  the  king,  of  the  office  of  controller  of  the  king's  works  within  the  realm 
from  20  July  last,  receiving  wages  of  I2d.  daily  for  himself  and  6d.  dailj 
for  his  clerk  from  the  issues  of  the  counties  of  Norfolk  and  Suffolk,  with  a 
robe  of  the  suit  of  the  king's  esquires  yearly  at  the  great  wardrobe  and  all 
other  profits,  houses,  gardens,  etc.  pertaining  to  the  office.  By  K. 

Feb.  10.  Grant  to  John  Blakhed  and  the  heirs  of  his  body  of  all  lands  late  of 

\Ve8tminster.   John  Bbtiller  in  Fermbtitgh,  Co.  Somerset,  reaching  •  the  value  of  100*. 

yearly.  By  p.s. 

Feb.  4.  Grant,  during  pleasure,  to  John  Denysshe,  Richard  Bele,  Eobert  Oldum 

WesnniDster.  and  William  Barnabe  of  the  scrutiny  and  supervision  of  all  *  berebrewers  ' 

within  the  realm,  because  the  latter  have  not  hitherto  been  supervised  by 

the  officers  of  the  assize  of  bread  and  ale  as  is  the  custom  in  other  lands 

where  the  mystery  is  practised.     They  are  to  see  that  the  malt  is  good  and 


76  CALENDAR  OF  PATENT  EOLLS. 


1462.  Membrane  22'~'Cont. 

made  from  good  barlej  and  oats  or  barley  and  wheat  and  free  from  worms 
called  *  wyfles '  and  that '  lez  hoppez '  are  also  good,  and  that  the  *  here '  is 
sufficient! J  cooked  and  not  sweet  and  does  not  leave  the  brewhouse  until 
eight  days  after  brewing.  They  EhaU  forfeit  all  malt,  hops  and  beer  that 
they  find  defective  to  the  lords  of  the  land.  When  a  quarter  of  malt  is  sold 
for  38.  Ad.  barrels  of  beer  called  '  double  coyte,*  containing  36  gallons,  are  to  be 
sold  for  2s.  Sd,y  and  when  the  quarter  is  sold  for  As.  the  barrels  are  to  be  sold 
for  3^.  4c/.,  and  an  increase  of  I2d,  in  the  price  of  the  quarter  shall  give  an 
increase  of  \d.in  the  gallon.  Barrels  of  beer  called  '  sengle  coyte,'  con- 
taining 36  gallons,  are  always  to  be  sold  for  2s.  They  are  to  receive  a  fee 
of  ^.  on  each  barrel,  and  shall  have  power  of  arrest.  By  pa. 

Membrane  21. 

March  1.  Ratification  to  Anna  late  the  wife  of  Aubrey  de  Vi^er,  who  died  without 
WeBtmiDster.  issue  by  her,  of  her  estate  in  the  manors  of  Wygeston,  co.  Leicester, 
Calverton  with  certain  lands  and  the  market  of  Stonystratford,  co.  Buck- 
ingham, Whitchirche,  co.  Buckingham,  Badilsmere,  co.  Kent,  Buryes- 
gyffard,  Vaux  by  Uedyngham  and  Downham,  co.  Essex,  and  Kensyngton 
and  Knotty ngesbernys,  co.  Middlesex,  which  she  and  her  husband  held  to 
themselves  and  the  heirs  of  their  bodies. 

By  K.  and  for  ^  mark  paid  in  the  hanaper. 

Feb.  20.  Grant  for  life  to  Thomas  Vaghan  of  the  king's  part  of  the  manor  and 

Westminster,  lordship  of  Penkelly  in  Wales  with  all  messuages,  tofts,  lands,  rents,  courts, 

liberties  and  profits  pertaining  to  it,  to  the  value  ot  20/.  yearly.  By  p.5. 

Jan.  20.  The  like  to  Traharn  ap  Jevan  ap  Meryk  and  John  ap  Jenkyn,  esquires,  of 

Westminster,  the  manor  of  Nemyngton  Regis,  co,  Devon,  with  advowsons,  wards, 
maniages,  escheats,  views  of  frank-pledge,  courts  leet  and  other  appur- 
tenances, late  of  Thomas  Comewaill,  esquire,  and  iu  the  king's  hands 
through  his  rebellion,  to  the  value  of  30/.  yearly.  By  p.s. 

Feb.  22.  Grant  in  frank  almoin  to  Thomas. Wylmote,  vicar  of  Asshettesford,  co. 

Westminster.  Kent,  of  the  manor  and  town  of  Dounton  Weylate,  co.  Essex,  with  the 
advowson  of  the  church  there,  the  manor  of  Preston  and  Hoo,  co.  Sussex, 
lately  pertaining  to  the  priory  of  Okeburn,  and  a  yearly  pension  of  100*. 
which  the  prior  of  Lewes  pays  to  the  king  from  a  certain  impost  lately  due  to 
the  abbey  of  Cluny,  quit  of  farms,  rents,  tenths,  fifteenths  and  all  demands, 
to  find  two  chaplains  and  two  secular  clerks  to  celebrate  divine  service  in 
the  church  for  the  pood  estate  of  the  king,  his  kinsman  George,  bishop  of 
Exeter,  John  Fogge,  knight,  and  Alice  his  wife  and  I'homas  Colt  while 
alive,  and  for  their  souls  after  death,  and  those  of  the  king's  father  Richard, 
duke  of  York,  his  brother  Edmund,  earl  of  Rutland,  his  uncle  Richard,  earl 
of  Salisbury,  Thomas  Kyryell,  knight,  Robert  Hoorne,  esquire,  and  others 
of  the  county  of  Kent  kiUed  in  battle  at  Northampton,  St.  Albans  and 
Shirboum,  notwithstanding  grants  of  the  same  by  Henry  IV.  Henry  V. 
or  Henry  VI.  By  K. 

Jan.  14.         Grant,  for  seven  years,  to  John  Bedale  of  a  tenement  in  the  town  of 
Westminster.   Clyff  within  the  parish  of  Hemyngbourgh  in  the  hberty  and  franchise  of 
Houden,  co.  York,  lately  demised  to  him  by  Thomas,  lord  Roos,  a  rebel. 

By  p.8. 

Feb.  4.  Grant  to  William  Cheyne  of  100*.  yearly  from  Michaelmas  last  from  the 

Westminster,   issues  of  the  county  of  Devon,  antil  he  shall  have  an  office  for  life  of  that 

value.  By  p.s . 

Feb.  28.  Grant  for  lif'>  to  John  Higham,  esquire,  for  his  good  service  to  the  king 

We>tmin8ter.  and   his  father,  o(  the  office  of  chief  i  emembraucer  of  the  exchequer  of 

Ireland,  receiving  a  fee  of   10/.  yearly  from  the  fee  farm  of  the  city  of 

Dublin^  with  all  other  accustomed  profits.  By  p.s. 


1  EDWARD  IV.— Part  III.  77 


1462.  Membrane  21 — cont. 

Feb.  20.  Grant  to  the  king's  servant  Richard  Herbert,  esquire,  and  the  heirs  male 

Westminster,  of  his  body  of  the  manor  and  lordship  of  Mockas  and  the  manor  of  Grove, 
CO.  Hereford,  and  all  lands  and  possessions  late  of  John  Skydmore,  knight, 
in  the  counties  of  Hereford,  Gloucester  and  Salop  and  Wales  and  the 
marches  of  Wales,  and  also  the  manor  of  Mounton,  the  manor  and  lordship 
of  Fen  and  a  moiety  of  the  manor  and  lordship  of  Eton  by  Rosse,  co. 
Hereford,  and  all  other  lands  and  possessions  late  of  Thomas  Fitzharry  of 
Hereford,  esquire,  in  the  said  counties  and  marches  in  Wales,  in  the  king's 
hands  by  reason  of  their  forfeitures  and  an  act  of  Parliament  at  West- 
minster, 4  November,  with  all  franchises,  libertie<i,  courts,  views  of  frank 
pledge,  hundreds,  fairs,  markets,  stews,  warrens,  knights'  fees,  advowsons, 
wreck  of  sea  and  other  emoluments,  to  the  value  of  100/.  yearly,  and  with 
all  profits  from  4  March  last.  By  p.s. 

Feb.  25.  Grant  for  life  to  Thomas  Seyntleger,  for  his  service  in  battle,  of  the 
WestmiDster.  manor  of  Wedon  Beke,  co.  Northampton,  and  all  lands  and  possessions  late 
of  William  Waynesford  in  Aylesbury  and  Bereton,  co.  Buckingham,  and 
also  the  manors  of  Colvyles,  Scraythes,  Leverers,  Gatwardes,  Moyiies, 
Carleton,  and  Wyllyngham,  co.  Cambridge,  and  all  other  lands  and  pos- 
sessions there  late  of  Thomas  Fyndern,  knight,  in  the  king's  hands  by  reason 
of  an  act  of  forfeiture  in  Parliament  at  Westminster,  4  November,  with 
courts  leet,  views  of  frank  pledge,  parks,  warrens,  stews,  fairs,  markets  and 
other  profits,  to  the  value  of  100  marks  yearly,  and  with  all  profits  from  4 
March  last.  By  E. 

Jan.  20.  Grant  to  the  king's  servitor  William  Herbert,  esquire,  and  the  heirs 

Westminster,  male  of  his  body  of  the  castle  and  manor  of  Kylpek,  co.  Hereford,  with 
knights*  fees  and  advowsons  and  also  all  messuages,  lands,  rents  and 
services  called  ^  Eyngis  capuU '  in  that  county,  parcel  of  the  castle  and 
manor,  in  the  king's  hands  by  reason  of  the  forfeiture  of  the  earl  of  Wilts, 
to  the  value  of  50/.  yearly.  By  p.s. 

March  3.         Grant  for  life  to  David  Malpas,  yeoman  of  the  crown,  of  M,  daily  for 

Westminster,  his  fee  from  12  August   last  from  the  fee  farm  and  the  old   and   new 

increment  of  the  town  of  Shrewsbury,  By  p.s. 

Mandate  in  pursuance  to  the  men,  bailiffs,  farmers,  receivers  and  other 

occupiers  of  the  town.   • 


1451.  Mbmbranb  20. 

Nov.  30.         Presentation  of  Richard  Hill  to  the  parish  church  of  Fordyngbrigge,  in 
Westminster,  the  diocese  of  Winchester,  in  the  king's  gift  by  reason  of  the  minority  of 
Henry  Stafford,  kinsman  and  heir  of  Humphrey,  duke  of  Buckingham. 

By  p.s. 

Aug.  6.  Grant  for  life  to  William  Noreys,  knight,  of  the  office  of  steward  of  the 

Westminster,  lordships   and   manors   of  Cokeham   and  Bray,  co.   Berks,   receiving  the 
accustomed  fees  at  the  hands  of  the  farmers  or  occupiers  of  the  same. 

By  p.s. 

Dec.  8.  Grant  to  Thomas  Haxby  of  the  chapel  or  chantry  of  Holy  Cross  within 

Westminster,   the  king's  castle  of  Old  Sarum,  co.  Wilts. 

Dec.  11.  Grant  for  life  to  John  C/lyfford,  esquire,  of  the  office  of  keeper  of  the 

Westminster,   king's  wood  called  *  Ohesteynwode,'  co.  Kent,  with  fees  aa  in  the  times  of 

Edward  III.  and  Richard  II.  from    11  April  last  from  the  issues  of  the 

king's  manor  of  Middelton,  co.  Kent.  By  p.s. 

Nov.  18.  Appointment  for  life  of  the  king's  kinsman  Henry,  earl  of  Essex,  as 

Westminster   master  of  the  king's  hunt  (deductus)  in  all  his  forests,  chases  and  parks 

this  side  Trent,  with  the  accustomed  foes.  By  p.s. 


78  CALENDAR  OF  ?ATENT  ROLLS. 


1461.  Membrane  20 — cont, 

April  8.  Grant  for  life  to  Henry  Ferrers, . king's  esquire,  of  the  office  of  the 

York.         stewardship  of  Chaylesmore,  receiving  the  accustomed  fees.  ^j  p.8. 

April  8.         Th«  like  to  the  said  Henry  of  the  custody  or  office  of  keeper  of  the 
York.         king's  park  of  Chaylesmore,  receiving  the  accustomed  fees.  By  p.s. 

Nov.  8.  The  like  to  the  king's  servant  William  Colyngbourne  of  the  office  of 

Westminster,  keeper  of  the  king's  park  of  Ludgursale,  co.  Wilts,  from  6  March  last, 

with  fees  as  in  the  times  of  Edward  III.  and  Richard  II.  from  the  issues 

of  the  king's  manor  or  lordship  of  Ludgursale.  By  p.s. 

Dec.  14.  Grant  to  William  Parre,  esquire,  of  the  custody  of  all  lordships,  manors, 

Westminster,  lands  and  other  possessions  late  of  John  Hothom,  knight,  deceased,  and 
John  Hothom,  esquire,  his  son,  deceased^  during  the  minority  of  John, 
son  and  heir  of  the  latter,  with  .the  marriage  of  the  heir,  and  the  like 
during  the  minority  of  the  next  heir  should  he  die  a  minor  and  unmarried, 
and  so  from  heir  to '  heir,  without  rendering  any  iiccount  but  finding  a 
competent  sustenance  for  the  heir  and  bearing  all  charges  oh  the  estate. 

'  By  p.s. 

Dec.  9.  Grant  for  life  to  Alvred  Oomeburgh,  one  of  the  yeomen  of  the  crown, 

Westminster,   and  Thomas  Grayson  of  the  custody  of  the  king's  park  of  Eerribullok 

and  his  foreign  woods  of  Heregerd,  Northwode  and  Grendescombe  with 
the  warrens  pertaining  to  his  manors  of  Eerribullok,  Calstoke  and 
Billyngton  within  the  duchy  of  Cornwall,  with  the  accustomed  fees  from 
the  issues  of  the  duchy  and  all  other  profits ;  in  lieu  of  a  grant  for  life  to 
the  said  Thomas  of  the  custody  of  the  said  park  by  letters  patent  dated 
20  June,  surrendered.  By  p.s. 

Dec.  10.         The  like  to  John  Banham,  on  account  of  his  age  and  blindness,  of 

Westminster.    lOOf .  4id.  yearly  from  Easter  last  from  the  issues  of  the  subsidy  and  ulnage 

of  cloths  in  the  counties  of  Northampton  and  Rutland  and  a  moiety  of  the 

forfeiture  of  the  same.  By  p.s. 

Dec.  12.         Mandate  in  pursuance  to  the  fieurmers  of  the  subsidy. 

Westminster. 

»  • 

Dec.  9.  Grant  to  William  de  Hastyngis,  knight,  and  Hoger  Ree,  esquire,  of  the 

Westminster,   collation    to    the  n^xt    vacant  canonry  and  prebend  in   the  king's  free 

chapel  of  St.  Stephen  within  his  palace  at  Westminster.  By  p^. 

Nov.  5.  Grant  to  William  Venoure,  William  Canynges  and  John  Bluet  of  the 

Westminster,  custody  of  three  crofts  in  the  town  of  Knoll  containing  4  acres  of  land 
and  2  acres  of  pasture,  of  which  Bobert  Guy  en,  deceased,  was  seised  in 
his  demesne  as  of  fee' and  which  came  into  the  hands  of  Edward  HI. 
through  a  debt  and  thence  into  the  bands  of  Henry  IV.,  Heniy  V., 
Heniy  VI.  ^nd  the  king,  from  4  .March  last  so  long  as  they  remain  in  the 
king's  hands,  rendering  to  the  king  5^,  yearly,  as  was  paid  to  Hen^  VI.^ 
and  supporting  all  charges.  By  p.s. 


Mbmbbanb  ip« 

Nov.  16.         Inspexitnus  and  confirmation  to  the  prior  and  convent  of  Bemewell  of 
Westminster,    [letters  patent  dated]  20  December,  1  [Richard  II.],  inspecting  and  con- 
firming the  following : — 

1.  A  charter  dated  at  Westminster,  18  July,  13  Henry  III.  [Charter 

JRolly  13  Henry  IIL,  m»  4.],  bei^ig  a  grant  to  them  of  a  fair  yearly 
at  Bemewell  at  the  day  of  St.  Etheldred. 

2.  A  charter  dated  at  Norwich,  3  January,  18  Edward  III.  [^Charter 

Roily  18  Edward  IILy  No,  4.],  inspecting  and  confirming  a  chartei* 
dated  at  Westminster,  3  December,  2  Edward  II.  [  Charter  Rollj 
2  Edward  IL^  No,  36.],  inspecting  and  confirming  a  charter  dated  at 
Westminster,  12  June,  13  Edward  I.  [Charter  Roll,  13  Edward  I., 


1  EDWARD  rv.— Pabt  III.  79 


1461.  Membrane  19 — cont. 

No.  82.],  inspecting  and  confirming  a  charter  dated  13  May, 
13  Henry  III.,  confirming  to  them  the  town  of  Gestreton,  granted 
to  them  by  king  John.  For  60s.  paid  in  the  hanaper. 

Nov.  19.  Grant  for  life  to  Simon  Walson,  for  his  good   service  to  the   king's 

Westminster,  kinsman  the  earl  of  Warwick,  of  the  office  of  the  parkership  of  the  king's 

park  of  Maldiche,  co.  Wilts,  with  the  accustomed  fees.  By  p.s. 

Nov.  24.  Grant    to   Thomas   Montgomery,   king's  knight,    one    of    the    king's 

Westminster,  carvers,   by   mainprise    of   John    Clopton    and    Thomas    Grene,    of    the 

custody  of  the  king's  n^inor  of  Greye»  in  Caundynsh,  co.  Suffolk,  with 
courts  leet,  knights'  fees,  mills,  escheats,  woods  and  other  appurtenances, 
for  12  years  from  Michaelmas  last,  rendering  to  the  king  23/.  6«.  Sd. 
yearly  and  supporting  all  charges.  By  p.8. 

Nov.  18.         Appointment,  during  pleasure,  of  William  Brigges  as  controller  of  the 

Weitminster.  great  and  petty  custom  and  the  subsidy  of  wools  and  wool-fells  and  the  3«. 

in  the  tun  and  the  I2d.  in  the  pound  in  the  port  of  Pole  and  ports  and 

places  adjacent,  receiving  the  accustomed  fees,  provided  that  he  execute 

the  office  in  person.     One  part  of  the  coket  seal  is  to  remain  in  his  custody. 

By  bill  of  the  treasurer. 

Nov.  24.         Licence  for  John  Dorham,  the  prior,  and    the  convent  of    St.  Mary, 

Westminster.  Newstead  in  Shirrewode,  to  enclose  48  aeres  by  the  forest  perch  of  their 

wood  and  soil,  granted  to  them  by  Henry  II.  as  parcel  of  their  foundation, 

adjoining  the  priory  on  the  north,  east  and  south,  with  a  ditch  and  low 

hedge  according  to  the  assize  of  the  forest,  and  hold  the  same  in  severalty, 

,  and  to  cut  down  and  dispose  of  the  wood  growing  thereon.  By  p.s. 

Nov.  30.        Grant  for  life  to  John  Austyn  of  the  office  of  yeoman  of  the  beds  and 
WeBtminster.  armament  within  the  king's  castle  of  Wyndesore,  co.  Berks,  from  7  May 
last,  receiving  6d.  daily,  with  the  accustomed  fees  from  the  issues  of  the 
casUe. 

Dec.  5.  Grant  to  William  Bowes,  knight,  of  100/.  from  the  issues  of  the  lordship 

WestmiDAter.  of  Alnewyk,  in  consideration  of  his  having  at  the  king's  command  taken 

the  government  and  custody  of  the  castle,  with  100  persons  in  his  company, 

from  13  September  to  30  November,  at  his  own  expense.  By  p.s. 

Dec.  12.  Grant  in  mortmain  to  the  abbot  and  convent  of  St  Peter's,  Abbotesbury, 

Westminster,  co.  Dorset,  of  the  hundred  of  Uggescombe,  with  view  of  frank-pledge  and 

all  issues,  fines,  and  amercements  appertaining,  rendering  the  true  yearly 

value  at  the  Exchequer.  By  p.s. 

Membrane  18. 

Nov.  28.         Grant  for  life  to  Master  James  Frus,  king's  physician,  of  an  annuity  of 

Westminster.  40/.  from  4  March  last,  viz.  20/.  from  the  issues  of  the  king's  lordship  of 

Wigmor,  and  20/.  from  the  fee  farm  of  the  king's  town  of  Ludlowe.    By  p.s. 

Oct.  15.         The  like  to  Mooter  Gervasc  le  Vulre,  one  of  the  king's  notaries  and 

Westminster,  secretaries  in  his  chancery  of  France,  for  his  public  service  of  40  years  and 

more  in  France  and  England,  of  50  marks  yearly  from  4  March  last  from 

the  great  and  petty  customs  in  the  port  of  Suthampton.  By  p.s. 

Dec.  1.  The  like  to  William  Beaufitz,  John  Scotte,  knight,  and  Henry  Unton, 

Westminster,  of  the  office  of  chirography  in  the  Common  Bench,  with  the  accustomed  fees. 

By  p.s. 

Dec.  2.  Inspeximus  and  confirmation  to  the  men  of  Heya  of  a  charter  dated 

Westminster.  6  June,  7  John  [Rotuli   Cartarum,  p.  153],   being  a  grant  to  them  of 

divers  liberties.  By  20*.  paid  in  the  hanaper. 

Nov.  30.         Grant  for  life  to  Thomas  Clampard  of  the  office  of  chief  smith  of  the 
Westminster,  town  of  Calais  and  the  marches  there,  and  surveyor  of  the  smith's  art  there, 
receiving  the  accustomed  fees  with  the  mansion  without  the  walls  called 
'  Feryhous^*  and  all  profits  as  in  the  times  of  Edward  III.  and  Bichard  II. 

By  p,s. 


80  CALENDAR  OF  PATENT  ROLLS. 


Id-Gl.  Membrane  18 — cont. 

Nov.  27.        Ratification  of  the  estate  which  Master  Peter  Taster,  king's  clerk,  has 
Westminster,   as  dean  of  St.  Severin,  Bordeaux,  parson  or  rector  of  the  parish  church  of 
St.  Mary,   Chartham,  in   the  diocese  of   Canterbury,  and  prebendary  of 
Lei^bton  Bosard  in  the  cathedral  of  Lincoln.  By  p.s. 

The  like  of  the  estate  which  Richard  Langport  has  as  parson  or  rector 
of  the  parish  church  of  Brad  well,  in  the  diocese  of  London,  and  prebendary 
of  the  prebend  which  Master  John  Gele  had  while  he  lived  in  the  collegiate 
church  of  St.  Mary  Otrye,  in  the  diocese  of  Exeter.  By  p.e. 

Dec.  1.  Presentation  of  Master  William  Ive  to  the  parish  church  of  Temmysford, 

Westminster,  in  the  diocese  of  Lincoln. 

Dec.  7.  Grant  to  George,  bishop  of  Exeter,  and  Henry  Webber,  dean  of  Exeter, 

Westminster,  of  820/.  from  the  first  moneys  after  Michaelmas  next  from  the  issues  of  the 
duchy  of  Cornwall  and  the  coinage  of  tin  in  the  counties  of  Cornwall  and 
Devon,  140/.  from  the  second  moiety  of  a  tenth  granted  by  the  prelates 
and  clergy  of  the  province  of  Canterbury  in  the  archdeaconries  of  Exeter, 
Totton[ey8]  and  Bamastapol,  and  40/.  from  the  same  in  the  archdeaconry 
of  Cornwall,  in  repayment  of  I, OCX)/,  lent  by  them  to  the  king.  If  this 
grant  be  insufficient  the  chancellor  shall  issue  further  letters  patent.     By  K. 

Dec.  9.  Grant  for  life  to  John   Hemyngburgh,  esquire,   the  king's  chief  cook 

Westminster,  (archicoco pro  ore  nostra),  of  the  manors  or  lordships  of  Hel  wcle  and  St  atton, 
COS.  Lincoln  and  Rutland,  from  4  March  last  with  *  haybote,'  ^  housbote,'  and 
'  brennyngwode,'  provided  that  he  sufficiently  repair  and  support  the  manors. 
The  said  manors  had  been  granted  to  him  for  life  by  Humphrey,  late  duke  of 
Gloucester,  by  letters  patent.  By,p.s. 

Dec.  11.         The  like  to  William  Whelpeley  of  the  custody  of  the  king's  castle  and 
Westminster,  gaol  of  Cambridge,  with  fees  as  in  the  times  of  Edward  III.  and  Richard  11. 

By  p.8. 

Dec.  11.         The  like  to  Robert  Hadley,  of  the  city  of  Coventry,  of  all  lands  and 

Westminster,  possessions  within  the  city  which  John  Norfolke  lately  had  of  the  grant  of 

Henry  VI.,  extended  at  6  marks  yearly.  '  By  p.s. 

Dec.  2.  The  like  to  the  king's  servitor  Richard  Craford,  of  the  office  of  water- 

Westminster,  bailiff  of  the  town  of  Bristol,  receiving  the  accustomed  fees.  By  p,8. 


Membrane  17. 

Nov.  16.  Grant  in  frank  almoin  to  William  Berkeswell,  the  dean,  and  the  chapter 
Westminster,  of  the  collegiate  church  of  St.  Mary  and  All  Saints,  Warrewyk,  of  a  parcel 
of  land  and  meadow  called  *Northbroke'  in  Fulbroke,  co.  Warwick 
enclosed  with  hedges  and  ditches  in  the  north  of  the  park  of  Fulbroke  but 
not  imparked,  lying  between  the  highway  from  Warrewyk  to  Stratford-on- 
Aven  on  the  south  and  the  stream  separating  it  from  the  common  field  of 
Norton  on  the  north,  and  betweim  an  enclosure  pertaining  to  Snyterfeld 
called  *  le  Morwehay '  on  the  west  and  the  common  field  of  Shirburne  on 
the  east ;  in  recompense  for  a  yearly  rent  of  8«.  l|rf.  and  a  yearly  portion  of 
a  tithe  of  24*.  from  the  king's  lordship  of  Fulbroke,  of  which  Thomas 
Yongo,  formerly  dean,  and  the  chapter  were  seised  until  John,  late  duke  of 
Bedford,  imparked  the  said  lordship,  and  for  40  years'  arrears  of  the  same, 
amounting  to  64/.  Ss,  lOrf.,  and  in  consideration  of  their  having  undertaken 
to  keep  an  obit  yearly  on  30  December  in  their  church  for  the  souls  of  the 
king's  father  Richard,  duke  of  York,  and  Richard  Neville,  late  earl  of 
Salisbury.  By  p.8. 

Nov.  25.  Inspeximiis  and  confirmation  to  Hugh  John,  knight,  of  the  following 

Westminster,  letters  patent  of  the  king's  kinsman  John,  late  duke  of  Norfolk,  earl  of 
Nottingham,  marshal  of  England,  lord  of  Moubray,  Segrave  and  Govver, 


EDWAED  IV.~Pabt  III.  81 


l.'lGl.  Mefnbrane  17 — cent. 

whose  possessions  are  now  in  the  king's  hands  by  reason  of  the  minority  of 
John,  his  son  and  heir : — 

1.  Grant  for  life  to  the  said  Hugh  John,  his  servant,  of  the  offices  of 

constable  of  his  castle  of  Oystermouth  in  South  Wales,  reeve  of  the 
lordship  and  manor  of  Oystermouth,  and  siirveyor  and  approver  of 
all  things  within  his  lordship  of  Gower,  with  the  accustomed  fees ;  a 
yearly  rent  of  10  marks  from  the  castle  audlordship  of  Oystermouth,  of 
which  the  duke  hands  him  4d.  in  silver  personally  in  part  payment, 
with  power  of  distraint  for  arrears ;  and  of  40  acres  of  his  demesne 
land  lying  between  the  town  and  church  of  Oystermouth  and  between 
the  castle  and  mountain  there  and  extending  to  the  sea  on  the  south, 
for  the  livery  of  seisin  of  which  Res  ap  William  ap  Jevan  ap  Cradok 
and  Evan  ap  William  ap  Evan  ap  Cradok  are  appointed  attorneys. 
Framlingham  Castle,  26  February,  29  Henry  VI. 

2.  Grant  for  life  to  the  said  Hugh  John  and  Mary  his  wife  of  a  yearly  rent 

of  20  marks  from  his  castles,  lordships  and  fees  of  Oystermouth  within 
his  lordship  of  Gower  in  Wales,  with  delivery  ot'4d,  in  silver  and 
power  of  distraint  as  above.  Fr.)mlingham  Castle,  1  April,  29 
Henry  YI.  By  p.s.  and  for  6s.  Sd,  paid  in  the  hanaper, 

Dec.  12.  Grant  for  life  to  Richard  Wydevill,  lord  of  Ryvers,  of  the  office  of  chief 
Westminster,  rider  of  the  king's  forest  o£  Saucy,  co.  Northampton,  with  all  trees  and 
profits,  viz.  dry  trees,  dead  trees,  trees  blown  down,  old  hedges  or  coppioe- 
hedges,  boughs  fallen  without  date,  chattels,  waifs,  strays,  pannage  of  swine, 
*  dcrefall  wode,'  '  draenes '  brushwood  and  brambles,  perquisites  of  courts, 
swainmote  and  other  issues  within  the  forest,  from  the  time  when  he  had 
the  same  by  letters  patent  of  Henry  VI.  By  K, 

Dec  3.  General  pardon  to  William  Vernon  of  Netherhaddon,  co.  Derby,  knight, 

Westmizister.  alieu  late  of  Harlaston,  co.  Stafford,  of  all  offences  committed  by  him  before 

4  November.  By  p.s. 

Dec.  18.  Grant  for  life  to  John  Fraunceys  and  John  Curson,  esquires,  of  the 

Westminster,  offices  of  parker  of  the  king's  park  of  Postern,  co.  Derby,  and  receiver  of 
the  herbage  and  other  profits  of  the  same,  and  of  26  acres  of  land  and  4 
acres  of  meadow  in  Duffeld,  Wyndeley  and  Haselwode  called  ^Rowland' 
and  Id.  daily,  which  the  parkers  have  always  had  for  the  custody,  and  of 
the  accustomed  fees  at  the  bands  of  the  receivers  of  the  honour  of  Tutbury. 

By  ps. 


Mbmbranb  16. 

Dec.  5.  Ifispeximus  and  confirmation  to  the  prior  and  convent  of  Clifford  in 

Westminiter.  Wales  of  letters  patent  of  the  king's  father  Richard,  duke  of  York,  earl  of 
March  and  Ulster,  lord  of  Wiggemore  and  Clare,  lieutenant-general  and 
governor  of  France  and  the  duchy  of  Normandy,  dated  at  Radenore  Castle, 
24  October,  19  Henry  VI.  granting  protection  to  them  and  their  men  and 
jiossessions.  For  ^  mark  paid  in  the  hanaper. 

Dec.  8.  Grant  to  the  bishop  of  Norwich  and  his  successors  of  the  power  t(» 

Westminster,  appoint  justices  within  his  town  or  borough  of  Bishop's  Lynn  without  leave 

for  the  king's  justices  to  enter  therein,  and  to  levy  fines  and  amercements 

without  interference  from  the  treasurer  and  barons  of  the  Exchequer,  and 

to  have  goods  and  chattels  of  felons  there.  By  K. 

Dec.  16.         Grant  for  life  to  Thurston  Hatfeld  of  the  office  of  the  scrjeanty  of 
We«tmin«ter.  Gnysnes  in  Picardy,  with  the  accustomed  fees  from  the  issues  of  the 
lordship  of  Gnysnes.  By  p.s. 

u   86914.  r 


62  OALENDAE  OF  PATENT  ROLLS, 


1461.  Membrane  16— ;ccm/. 

Dec.  16.         Mandate  to  all  baili&  and  others  to  permit  John  Stagge,  chaplain,  ft 
Westminster,  native  of  Abnrdeen  in  Scotland,  dwelling  at  Norwich  in  England,  who  has 
taken  an  oath  of  fealty,  to  inhabit  the  real^i  peaceably  and  enjoy  his  goods. 

By  p.s. 
The  like  for  David  Myghyll^  a  Uf^tiYQ  Qf  Abtird^eQ  in  3ootland^  dvirelling 
at  Canterbury  in  !E!ngland, 


Mbmbranb  16, 

Dec.  2.  Grant  in  frank  almoin  to  the  prior,  canons  and  convent  of  St.  Mary's, 

Westminster.  Bridlyngton,  of  the  church  of  Scardeborgh  and  the  advowson  of  the 
vicarage  and  ail  issues  of  the  same,  without  rendering  anything  to  the  king, 
Henry  IV.  granted  to  them  110  marks  yearly  from  the  said  church  by 
letters  patent;  Henry  V.  by  letters  patent  dated  5  April,  9  Henry  V., 
granted  to  them  the  said  charch,  rendering  yearly  at  the  Exchequer  the 
surplus  over  the  said  1 10  marks ;  and  Henry  VI.  granted  and  confirmed  to 
them  the  said  church  and  advowson  as  in  the  present  grant,  by  lettei's  patent 
dated  26  February,  20  Henry  VI.  By  p.a. 

Dec.  4,  Pardon  to  the  king's  kinswoman  Alice,  countess  of  Salisbury,  late  the 

Westminster,  ^jf^  ^f  Richard  Neville,  earl  of  Salisbury,  keeper  of  the  west  marches  of 

Scotland  and  the  forests  beyond  Trent,  and  daughter  and  heiress  of  Thomas 

^   Montagu,  late  earl  of  Salisbury,  of  all  debts,  accounts  and  arrears  due  to 

the  crown   and  all  actions  against  her  as  executrix  of  the  will  of  her 

husband.  By  K. 

Nov.  25.         Inspcximus  and  confirmation  to  Henry  Cook  of  letters  patent  of  the 

Westminster,  king's  father  Richard,  duke  of  York,  dated  at  Beaudeley  Manor,  1  October, 

25  Henry  VI.,  being  a  grant  for  life  to  the  said  Henry,  yeoman  of  his 

kitchen,  of  an  annuity  of  100^.  from  the  issues  of  his  castle  or  lordship  of 

Usk  in  Wales.  By  p.s.  and  for  \  mark  paid  in  the  hanaper. 

Dec.  19.  Pardon  to  the  citizens  of  Carlisle,  on  the  frontiers  of  the  west  marches 

Westminster,  of  Scotland,  ou  account  of  their  siege  by  Margaret,  lately  called  queen  of 
England,  Edward,  lately  called  prince  of  Wales,  Henry,  duke  of  Exeter,  and 
others,  of  40/.  yearly  out  of  the  80/.  from  the  fee  farm  from  a  mill  pertain- 
ing to  the  city,  which  has  been  burned,  and  the  king's  fishery  in  the  river 
Edene ;  and  grant  to  them  of  the  custody  of  the  king's  fishery  of  Carlisle 
alias  the  sheriff's  net  {reikis  vicecomitis)  alias  the  fishery  of  Frithnet  in 
tlie  river  Eden,  co.  Cumberland.  By  p.s. 

Dec.  18.  Exemption  for  life  of  John  Fourmour,  servant  of  the  prior  of  the  Hos- 

Westminster.  pital  of  St.  John  of  Jerusalem  in  England,  gentleman,  of  the  county  of 
Middlesex,  from  being  put  on  assizes,  juries,  attaints,  i^cognisances  or 
inquisitions  and  from  being  made  trier  of  the  same,  mayor,  sherSp,  escheator, 
coroner,  justice,  collector,  assessor,  taxer,  surveyor,  constable  or  controller 
of  tenths,  fifteenths  or  other  subsidy,  arrayer  or  trier  of  men  at  arms, 
hobelers  or  archers  or  other  minister  of  the  king,  against  his  will.     By  p.s. 

1462. 

Jan.  21.  Grant  for  life  to  Master  William   Hattecliff,  doctor  of  medicine  and 

Wcj-tminster.  physician  to  the  king,  of  40/.  yearly  from  the  first  day  of  the  reign  at  the 

receipt  of  the  Exchequer  from  the  king's  treasure.  By  p.B, 

1461. 

Deo.  23.         Appointment  for  life  of  Robert  Kirkeham,  king's  clerk,  as  keeper  of  the 
Wcpi  minster,  rolls,  books  and  records  of  Chancery,  with  the  custody  of  the  House  of 
Converts  for  his  habitation  and  all  accustomed  fees.  By  K. 

Mandate  in  pursuance  to  Thomas  Kirkeby,  king's  clerk,  late  keeper. 


1  EDWARD  IV.— Pabt  HI.  83 


1461.  Membrane  14. 

Dec.  12.         Grant  for  life  to  the  king's  servant  Nicholas  Pemberton,  esquire,  for  his 

Westminster,  good  service  to  the   king's   father  in   France,   Normandy,   Ireland  and 

England,  of  the  office  of  the  bailiwick  of  the  king's  part  of  iJie  lordship  of 

Cotyngham,  co.  York,  receiving  2d.  daily  at  his  own  hands.  By  p.s, 

Oct.  27.         The  like  to  the  king's  servant  Matthew  Loynge  of  an  annuity  of  lOOt. 
Westminster,  from  the  fee  farm  in  Lyndesey,  co,  Lincoln.  By  p.Sf 

Dec.  14.         The  like  to  Nicholas  Maleber  of  the  custody  of  Milborne  and  Balast  Hill 

Westminiter.  by  Neucastell,  co.  Northumberland,  with  fees  as  in  the  times  of  Edward  III, 

and  Bichard  II.  By  p.s. 

Dec.  11.         Genei-al  pardon  toOto  (alias  Otys)  Cornewayll,  ^gentilman,'  and  grant  to 

Westminster,  him  and  the  heirs  of  his  body  of  the  manor  of  Brymfeld,  co.  Hertford,  and 

all  other  lands  pertaining  to  him  by  right  of  Katharine  his  wife.        By  p.s, 

Dec.  12.  Grant  for  life  to  Richard  Wydevill,  lord  of  Byvers,  of  the  oflloe  of  the 

Westminster,  stewardship  of  the  king's  forest  of  Saucy,  co.   Northampton,   with  tjie 

accustomed  issues.  By  K. 

Oct.  17.         The  like  to  Bernard  de  Castaings,  a  native  of  Dax  (Aguen)  in  the  duchy  of 

Westminster.  Aquitaine,  for  his  good  service  to  the  crown  of  England  in  the  wars  in  the 

duchy,  of  the  office  of  bailiff  in  the  parish  of  Pouillou  in  the  8tewai*dship  of 

Landis  in  the  duchy,  with  the  accustomed  fees.  By  p.s. 

Dec.  10.         Presentation  of  Bartholomew  Colet,  parson  of  the  parish  church  of  Great 
Westminster.  Halyngbury,  in  the  diocese  of  London,  to  the  parish'  church  of  Hotefeld,  in 
the  diocese  of  Canterbury,  on  an  exchange  of  benefices  with  Thomas 
Wright. 

Dec.  17.  Grant  for  life  to  Henry  Mayre,  from  Michaelmas  last,  for  his  good 
Westminster,  service  to  the  king's  father  Bichard,  duke  of  York,  and  the  king,  of  the 
5  marks  yearly  which  the  abbess  and  convent  of  Berkyng  render  to  the 
king  fcr  the  release  of  the  enclosure  or  palisade  {palacii)  of  467  perches 
of  the  king's  park  of  Haveryn^,  co.  Essex,  which  they  and  their  predecessors 
used  to  make.  By  p.s. 

Dec.  11.  Appointment,  duiing  good  behaviour,  from  Michaelmas  last. of  the  kings 

Westminster,  servant  Nicholas  Loure  as  keeper  of  the  king's  ports  in  the  county  of 
Cornwall  and  the  prise  of  wines  there  and  in  the  water  of  Sutton  and 
Plymmouth,  co.  Devon,  and  as  king's  havener  in  those  counties,  receiving 
the  same  fees  as  Thomas  son  of  Henry,  late  keeper,  received  in  the  year 
20  Edward  III.  from  the  issues  of  the  office  with  other  profits,  to  be  duly 
accounted  for  before  the  auditors  of  the  duchy  of  Cornwall.  By  p.s. 

Dec.  6.  Grant  to  James  Manthorp,  esquire,  and  his  executors  and  assigns,  for  his 

Westminster,  good  service  to  the  king  and  the  king's  father  in  England  and  Ireland,  of 

20/.  yearly  for  10  years  from  the  issues  of  the  counties  of  Norfolk  and 

Suffolk.  By  p.B. 

Dec.  14.  Grant  for  life  to  John  Dorward  the  elder  of  the  county  of  Essex,  esquire, 
Westminster,  and  John  Dorward  his  son,  for  their  good  service  to  the  king's  father  and 
the  king,  of  the  office  of  steward  of  the  king's  honour  of  Beylegh,  co.  Essex, 
which  Uie  said  John  the  elder  and  Edmund  Mulso,  knight,  now  deceased, 
held  for  life  of  the  grant  of  the  king's  father,  receiving  the  accustomed  fees 
from  the  issues  of  the  honour.  By  p.s« 

The  like  to  the  same  of  the  office  of  bailiff  of  the  hundred  of  Rocheford, 
CO.  Essex.  By  p.s. 

Dec.  8.  Licence  for  John  Knyvet,  esquire,  son  of  Elizabeth,  sister  of  John 

Westminster.  Clifton,  knight,  whose  heir  he  is,  to  enter  into  the  castle  of  Bokenham  and 
the  manors  of  Old  Bokenham,  New  Bokenham,  Bokenham  Lathes  and 
Tybenham  and  two  parts  of  the  manor  of  Gryshaugh  in  Wymondham,  co. 
Norfolk,  held  in  chief,  and  hold  the  same  in  fee  simple ;  and  pardon  to  him 
and  Alice  his  wife  and  William  Knyvet  of  aU  debts,  accountii,  issues  and 
profits  of  lands  due  to  the  king.  By  K« 

v  2 


84  CALENDAR  OF  PATENT  BOLLS. 


1461*  Membrane  14 — eont. 

Dec.  19.         General  pardon  to  Robert  Willyn  of  Melburn,  co.  Derby,  *  gentilman/  of 
Westminster,  all  offences  committed  by  him  before  20  November.  By  p.s. 

The  like  to  John  Wyllyn,  prior  of  Ryppyndon,  co.  Derby.  By  p.s. 

Dec.  14,         Grant  for  life  to  Thomas  Lumley  and  George  Lumley  of  the  office  of 
Westminster,  the  coustableship  of  the  king's  gastle  of  Swrtnrgh,  with  the  accustomed 
fee?.  By  l>-8. 


Membrane  IS. 

Nov.  27.  Inspejnmus  and  confirmation  to  the  stannary  men  of  the  county  of 

Westminfter.  Devon  of  letters  patent  dated  12  November,  17  Edward  III.,  being  an 
exemplification  of  a  charter  dated  at  Stanhope,  6  August,  1  Edward  III. 
[Charter  Boll,  1  Edward  III.  No.  26],  inspecting  and.  confirming  a 
charter  dated  at  York,  14  August,  4  Edward  II.  [Charter  Roll,  4  JSdward 
JI,  No.  55],  inspecting  and  confirming  a  charter  dated  at  Westminster,  10 
April,  33  Edward  I.  [Charter  Roll,  33  Edward  /.,  No,  40],  being  a  grant 
to  them  of  divers  liberties  and  the  privileges. 

For  1  mark  paid  in  the  hanaper. 

Nov.  24,         Grant  for  life  to  George  Medelton,  from  4  March  last,  of  the  office  of 
Westminster,  keeper  of  the  king's  manor  of  Claryngdon,  with  the  accustomed  fees  from 
the  issues  of  the  county  of  Wilts,  in  lieu  of  a  like  grant  to  him  of  the 
office  of  porter  of  the  manor  by  letters  patent  dated  15  July,  surrendered. 

By  K. 

Nov.  28.         The  like  to  the  king's  servant  Richard  Crofft  the  younger  of  the  office  of 
Westminster,   the  supei*vision  of  the  king's  manor  of  Wodestoke,  co.  Oxford,  with  the 
accustomed  fees  from  the  issues  of  the  manor. 

The  like  to  the  said  Richard  of  the  office  of  the  custody  of  the  king's 
garden  in  the  said  manor^  with  fees  tis  above.  By  K. 

Nov.  24.         General  pardon  to   Robert  Bolde  late  of  Farneworth,  co.  Lancaster, 
Westminster.    <  gentilman,'  alias  late  of  Ines,  co.  Lancaster,  esquire,  of  all  offences  com- 
mitted by  him  before  20  November.  By  p.s. 

Aug.  24.         Grant,  during  good  behaviour,  to  John  Farman  of  ihe  office  of  searcher 

Oxford.       of  all  fish-nets  called  *  welys '  and  engines  in  the  river  Thames  and  creeks 

and  places  connected  with  it  between  Cirencester  and  Stanes,  with  the 

accustomed  fees.  By  p.s, 

Dec.  18.  Grant  in  mortmain  to  the  chapter  of  St.  Mary's,  Suthwell,  of  the  alien 

Westminster,  priory  of  Ravendale,  co.  Lincoln,  not  exceeding  the  value  of  41/.  yearly,  with 
advowsons  and  other  emoluments  and  appurtenances,  for  the  sustenance  of 
the  ministers  of  their  church ;  and  also  of  a  messuage  and  60  acres  of  land  in 
North  Carleton,  co.  Nottingham,  which  William  Gunthorp,  clerk,  James 
Staunton,  clerk,  and  Walter  Ulsby  granted  to  them,  and  a  messuage,  120 
acres  of  land  and  7  acres  of  meadow  in  Batheley,  Northmuskam  and  Holme 
CO.  Nottingham,  which  Thomas  Haxy,  late  canon  of  their  church,  granted 
to  them.     [Monasticon,']  By  p.s. 

Dec.  21.  Grant  for  life  to  John,  lord  of  Wenlok,  and  Roland  Fitz  Eustace,  knights, 
Westminster,  of  the  office  of  treasurer  of  Ireland,  with  the  accustomed  fees,  and  also  of 
the  custody  of  the  king's  manors  of  Newcastle  of  Lyones  and  Tassagard, 
CO.  Dublin,  receiving  60/.  of  silver  yearly  at  their  own  hands  in  part 
payment  of  the  said  fees  so  long  as  they  remain  in  office,  and  accounting 
at  the  exchequer  of  Ireland  for  the  surplusage  of  the  manors*  By  p.s. 


1  EDWARD  IV.— Part  III.  85 


1461.  Membrane  12. 

r>ec.  7.  Licence  for  Frances  MuUe,  late   the  wife  of  Willmm  MuUe,  knight,  to 

"West minster,  enter  into  and  hold  for  life  the  manors  of  Avenbury  and  Aleynesmore  and 

divers  lands  and  tenements  in  Tregett,  co.  Hereford,  of  which  Thomas 
Mull,  father  of  the  said  William,  was  seised  in  his  demesne  as  of  fee,  and 
which  he  granted  to  William  and  Frances  and  the  heirs  of  the  body  of 
William  with  remainder  to  the  heirs  of  the  body  of  Juliana  de  Bous, 
rendering  to  him  for  his  life  10/.  yearly  for  the  manor  of  Aleysmore, 
and  which  after  the  death  of  William  were  taken  into  the  king's  hands. 

By  p.8. 

Oct.  22.         Grant  to  the  mayor  and  commonalty  of  Bristol  that  the  town,  suburbs 
Westminster,  and  county  of  Brbtol  shall  be  exempt  for  ever  from  the  jurisdiction  of  the 

king's  admirals,  and  shall  not  be  compelled  to  answer  pleas  in  the  Court  of 
Admiralty.  The  king  will  issue  commissions  or  letters  patent  under  the 
Oreat  Seal  to  the  mayor  and  recorder  and  others  to  hetir  and  determine 
trespasses  pertaining  to  the  office  of  admiralty.  By  p.s. 

Nov.  5.         Mandate  to  the  escheator  in  the  counties  of  Warwick  and  Leicester  for 
Westminster,  the  restitution  of  the  temporalities  of  St.  Mary's,  Coventry,  to  Thomas 

Deram,  late  sub-prior,  whose  election  as  prior  John,  bishop  of  Coventry 
and  Lichfield,  has  confirmed. 

The  like  to  the  escheators  in  the  following  counties  :*- 
Northampton. 
Worcester. 

Gloucester  and  the  marches  of  Wales. 
Derby. 
Stafford. 
The  like  to  Edmund  Brograve,  mayoi^  and  escheator  in  the  city   of 
Coventry. 

Nov.  5.  Writ  de  inttndendo  in  pursuance  to  (he  tenants. 

Westminster. 

Dec.  13.  Grant  for  life  to  Nicholas  Wydower  alias  Wyduer, '  bowyer,'  of  the  office 
Westminster,  of  making  the  king's  bows  witliin  the  Tower  of  London,  from  4  March  last, 
with  the  accustomed  fees  from  the  issues  of  the  counties  of  Surrey  and 
Sussex,  and  of  a  livery  of  the  suit  of  the  yeomen  of  the  king's  chamber 
yearly  at  Christmas  at  the  great  wardrobe,  with  a  mansion  within  the  Tower 
between  the  tower  called  ^  Wakefeld '  and  the  tower  called '  Westsmythfeld ' ; 
in  lieu  of  another  grant  to  him  of  the  same  office  by  letters  patent,  surren- 
dered. By  p.s. 

Dec.  20.         The  like  to  Bichard  Litster  of  the  office  of  forester  of  the  park  of 

Westminster.  Bcrbelond,  parcel  of  the  manor  of  Topcliff,  co.  York,  with  the  accustomed 

fees  at  the  hands  of  the  farmers  of  the  manor.  By  p.s. 

Dec.  22.  Grant  in  fee  simple  to  John  Courteney,  esquire,  of  the  manors  of 
Westminster.  Exmynstre,  Kenforth  alias  Kenford,  and  Kenne  and  the  hundred  of 
Exmynstre,  co.  Devon,  with  knights'  fees,  advowsons,  warrens,  regards  and 
other  appurtenances,  in  the  king's  hands  by  reason  of  the  forfeiture  of 
Tnomas  Courteney,  knight,  late  earl  of  Devon,  to  hold  the  same  by  fealty  and 
the  rent  of  \d*  yearly  at  Michaelmas.  By  p.s. 

Sept.  18.        Appointment,  during  pleasure,  of  John  Grevile,  esquire,  as  sheriff  of  the 
Westminster,  counties  of  Warwick  and  Leicester.  By  K. 

Vacated  because  elsewhere  on  the  Fine  Roll, 

Dec.  24.         Grant  for  life  to  Thomas  Colte,  for  his  good  service  to  the  king  and  the 
Westminster,  king's  father  Bichard,  late  duke  of  York,  in  England  and  Ireland,  of  the 
office  of  keeper  of  the  hanaper  of  Chanceryi  with  the  accustomed  fees. 

ByK, 


86  CALENDAR  OP  PATENT  ROLLS. 


14i61.  MSMBRANS   11. 

Dec.  21.         Grant  for  life  to  the  king's  servant  Brian  Talbot  of  all  lands^  tenements, 

Westminster,  rents  and  services  with  appurtenances  late  of  William  Tailboys,  knight,  in 

Neuton  in  the  Welowes,  co,  York,  in  the  king's  hands  by  reason  of  his 

rebellion.  Bj  p.s. 

Dec.  22.  The  like  to  John  Parre,  king's  esqnire,  of  the  offices  of  chief  forester  of 
Westminster,  Whynfeld,  co.  Westmoreland,  and  chief  steward  of  all  castles,  lands  and 
other  possessions  late  of  Thomas  de  Clyfford,  knight,  deceased,  in  that 
connty  and  in  the  king's  hands  by  reason  of  the  forfeiture  and  rebellion  of 
John  de  Clyfford,  knight,  his  son  and  heir,  receirii^g  the  same  fees  as 
Christopher  Moresby,  knight,  late  chief  forester,  and  Hugh  Salkeld,  esquire, 
late  steward.  By  p.s. 

The  like  to  Thomas  Baty  of  the  office  of  forester  or  keeper  of  the  king's 
outer  park  of  Whynfell,  co.  Westmoreland,  and  his  foreign  woods  there 
called  *  les  Owtewodes,'  receiving  QQs.  8rf.  yearly  from  15  May  last  from 
the  issues  of  the  same.  By  p.s. 

Dec.  21.         The  like  to  Robert  Ingleton  of  the  reversion  of  the  office  of  chancellor  of 

Westminster,   the  Exchequer,  with   the  accustomed  fees,  immediately  after  the  decease, 

resignation  or  dismissal  of  Thomas  Witham,  to  whom  the  same  has  been 

granted  for  life.  By  K. 

Dec.  23.         General  pardon,  in  consideration  of  the  approach  of  Christmas,  to  William 
Westminster.   Beaumont  alias  William,  late  viscount  Beaumont  and  lord  Bardolf .     By  K. 

Dec.  24.         Grant  for  life  to  William  Tracy,  chaplain,  of  the  custody  of  the  hospital 
Westminster,  of  St.  Bartholomew,  Playden  by  Rye,  co.  Sussex.  By  p.s. 

Dec.  23.         The  like  to  Robert  Constable,  knight,  of  the  king's  manors'  of  Howsom 

Westminster,  and  Hessyll,  co.  York,  with  knights'  fees,  passages  and  appurtenances,  in  the 

king's  hands  by  reason  of  an  act  of  Parliament  at  Westminster,  4  November, 

to  hold  the  same  by  fealty  and  the  rent  of  Idf.  yearly  at  Easter.  By  p.s. 

Dec.  22.         The  like  to  Thomas  Dale  of   the  office    of    reeve  of  the  manor   of 

Westminster.  Ravensthorp,  co.  York,  with   the  accustomed  fees  from  the  issues  of  the 

manor.  By  p.s. 

The  like  to  the  said  Thomas  of  the  office  of  forester  of  the  woods  of  the 

said  manor.  By  p.s. 

Dec.  23.         The  like  to  Edmund  Hastynges,  esqnire,  of  the  manor  and  town  of 

Westminster.   GriUyng   in  Rydale,   co.   York,  forfeited  to  the  king  by  the  rebellion  of 

Humphrey  Nevill.  By  p.8. 

Dec.  18.         The  like  to  Walter  Teny  of  the  office  of  keeper  of  the  king's  castle  of 

Westminster.  Plympton  Earle,  co.  Devon,  which  with  the  manor  of  Plympton  came  into 

the  king's  hands  by  reason  of  the  forfeiture  of  Thomas,  late  earl  of  Devon^ 

son  and  heir  of  Thomas,  late  earl  of  Devon,  with  the  accustomed  fees  from 

the  issues  of  the  manor.  By  p.s. 

Dec.  24.         The  like  to  Greorge  Middelton,  William  Gosse  and  William   Seward, 

Westminster*  esquires,  of  the  manor  of  Hunspill  Marise,  co.  Somerset,  of  the  yearly  value  of 

36/.  3^.,  in  the  king's  hands  by  reason  of  the  forfeiture  of  James,  late  earl  of 

Wilts,  and  an  act  of  Parliament  at  Westminster,  4  November,  to  hold  the 

same  by  fealty  and  a  rent  of  \d.  yearly  at  Michaelmas.  •  By  p.s, 

Dec.  18.  The  like  to  the  king's  servitor  Alexander  Cely  of  the  office  of  clerk  of  the 

Westminster,   admiralty  of  the  king's  river  of  Sevarne  from  the  sign  called  *  le  Mai'ke '  of 

Silly  to  Worcester  bridge,  receiving  fees  as  in  the  times  of  Edward  III. 

and  Richard  II.  By  p.s. 

The  like  to  the  said  Alexander  of  the  office  of  conservator  and  searcher 

of  the  said  river,  with  fees  as  above.  By  pj. 

Dec.  20.  General  pardon  to  Gervase  Clyfton,  knight,  late  of  Braborn,  co.  Kent, 

Westminster,   alias  of  Clyfton,  co.  Nottingham,  alias,  of  London,  alias  late  treasurer  of 

Calais  and  the  marches  there,  alicu  late  sheriff  of  Kent,  of  all  extortions  and 

other  offences*  By  p.s. 


1  EDWARD  IV.— Pabt  Hi.  87 


1461.  MSMBRANS  10. 

Dec.  27.         Ratification  of  the  estate  which  John  Lovell,  kntght,  has  in  the  manor  of 
Westminiter.   Swavesey  and   Fulbum   and  the  advowson  of  the  priory  of   Swavesey, 

CO.  Oambridge,  the  manors  of  Great  Hohind,  co.  Essex,  Snodesbury, 
Wykebumell  and  Russelhall,  cos.  Worcester  and  Stafford,  and  Peccheford, 
CO.  Salop,  and  the  manor  of  Broughton  and  lands  in  Weston,  Redgrave  and 
Aylesbury,  co.  Buckingham,  of  which  he  is  seised  in  his  demesne  as  of  fee 
tail,  as  appears  by  fines  levied  in  the  courts  of  the  king's  progenitors. 

By  p.s.  and  for  40s.  paid  in  the  hanaper. 

Dec  29.  Grant  to  Elizabeth  late  the  wife  of  John  Ratclyff  of  Attylburgh,  co.  Nor- 

Westmiiurter.   folk,  esquire,  deceased,  tenant  in  chiefs  of  the  custody  of  all  his  lands  during 

the  minority  of  John  his  son  and  heir,  with  the  marriage  of  the  latter,  and  of 
the  like  during  the  minority  of  the  next  heir  should  he  die  during  minority, 
and  so  from  heir  to  heir.  By  p.s. 

Dec.  23.         Grant  for  life  to  John  de  Audeley  of  the  offices  of  steward  of  all  the 
Westminster,   king's  lordships,  manors  and  lands  in  the  county  of  Dorset  and  master  and 

keeper  of  all  his  forests,  chases,  parks  and  warrens  in  the  county  and  his  deer 
in  them,  and  the  custody  of  his  castle  and  park  of  Wardere,  co.  Wilts,  re- 
ceiving 40/.  yearly  from  the  issues  of  the  king's  lordship  or  manor  of 
Cranburn,  co.  Dorset,  viz.  20/.  for  the -stewardship  and  20/.  for  the  office  and 
custody.  By  K. 

Dec.  23.         The  like  to  John  Hodelston,  knight,  of  the  offices  of  lieutenant  of  the 
Westminster,   king's  honour  and  lordship  of   Cokermouth   and  constable  of  the  castle  of 

Cokermouth  and  bailiff  of  Copelande,  co.  Cumberland,  receiving  20/.  yearly 
for  wages  as  lieutenant  and  10/.  as  constable  from  the  issues  of  the  honour 
and  lordship,  with  all  other  accustomed  profits.  By  p.B. 

The  like  to  Thomas  Lamplough,  knight,  of  the  office  of  master  forester  of 
Westdalehed  and  Asshdale,  co.  Cumberland,  and  steward  there,  receiving 
10  marks  wages  yearly  from  the  issues  of  honour  and  lordship  of  Coker-* 
mouth,  with  all  other  accustomed  fees.  By  p.s. 

Dec.  23.         Grant,  for  50  years,  to  the  burgesses  of  Lyme,  co.  Dorset,  on  account  of 
WestmiDster.   the  devastation  of  the  town  by  the  sea,  that  they  may  hold  the  town  with  all 

liberties  and  franchises  belonging  to  it,  at  fee  farm,  rendering  to  the  king 
6  marks  yearly,  and  that  they  shall  pay  ISs.  4</.  to  each  fifteenth  or  tenth 
for  the  town  and  their  goods ;  and  pardon  to  them  of  all  debts,  arrears  and 
actions.  By  p.s. 

Dec.  9.  Grant  to  the  king's  kinsman  John,  earl  of  Worcester,  John  Audeleye, 

WMtminster.  lord  of  Audeleye,  and  Alexander  Pruet,  clerk,  of  the  manor  of  Estbourne 

with  the  hamlet  of  Hechyngton,  co.  Sussex,  the  manor  of  Hothf  old,  co.  Kent^ 
and  the  advowson  of  the  church  there,  the  manors  of  Howesom,  Seton^ 
Storthwaite  cum  Melburne,  Ravenesthorp  cum  Boltby  and  Garton,  co.  York^ 
an  annuity  of  20/.  from  the  priory  of  Wartre  and  lands  in  Wartre,  co.  York, 
the  manors  of  TJffyngton,  Wragby  and  Esteryngton,  co.  Lincoln,  and  Orston^ 
Warshop  and  Ekeryng,  co.  N^ottingham,  the  ndvowsons  of  the  churches  of 
Warshop  and  Ekeryng,  moieties  of  the  manors  of  Holt  and  Clcy,  co.  Norfolk, 
with  the  advowsons  of  the  churches  there,  and  the  manor  of  Adderley  cum 
Sponeley,  co.  Salop,  with  the  advowson  of  the  church  there,  with  all  arrttirs, 
lately  belonging  to  Thomas  Boos,  knight,  lord  Boos,  to  hold  during  the  life 
of  Philippa,  wife  of  the  latter  and  sister  of  the  said  earl,  for  her  use  and 
profit  and  the  sustenance  of  herself  and  her  children  and  servants. 

By  p.s. 

t)ec  8.  Licence  for  the  acquisition  in  mortmain,  after  itiquisition,  by  the  prior 

Westminster,   and  convent  of  St.  Mary's,  Carlisle,  of  lands  and  possessions  to  the  value  of 

20/.  yearly,  on  account  of  the  devastation  of  their  possessions  in  Carlisle  by 

the  rebels ;  and  grant  to  them  of  two  tuns  of  red  wine  yearly  in  the  port  of 

Kyngeston  on  Hull.  B>'  (>.8| 


SH  CALENDAR  OF  PATENT  ROLLS. 


14j61.  Membrane  10 — cont, 

Dec.  12.  Grant  in  mortmain  to  tlio  abbess  und  convent  of  the  fdsters  Minoredses 

Westmiiuter.  without  Algatc,  London,  on  account  of  their  poverty,  of  the  manor  called  the 

priory  of  Appildrecombe  with  all  its  members,  issues  and  appartenances,  for 

the  augmentation  of  divine  service  within  the  abbey.  By  p.s. 


Membrane  9. 

Dec.  15.         Grant  for  life  to  Thomas  Vaghan,  king's  esquire,  for  his  good  service  to 

Westminster,   the  king  and  his  father,  and  Eleanor  his  wife,  bite  the  wife  of  Thomas 

Broun,  knight,  who  was  attainted  of  treason  in  the  time  of  Henry  Y I.,  and 

whose  possessions  were  forfeited  to  the  king,  of  the  manors  of  Kyngesnoth, 

Milton,  Halton,  Morehail,  Aythorn, '  Oolkyns  Manour,'  Dayncourt,  Caldam, 

Alkam,  Moryse,  Herstall,  Ballarst,  Mastyrse,  Westbere,  GKxlwell,  Wymlyssh 

Wold,  Barston,  Brykhill,  co.  Kent,  a  messuage  in  the  parish  of  Osprynge, 

a  messuage  called  '  Pawnasshe,'  a  messuage  called  ^  Hartanger,'  a  windmill 

in  Barston,  a  tenement  called  ^  Dayncourt,'  a  piece  of  marsh  in  the  parish 

of  Deyll,  a  messuage  called  '  Dyngleyse,'  3  messuages  in  Canterbury,  3 

messuages  in  the  parish  of  Harbaidowne  and  6  acres  of  wood  in  the  same, 

u  messuage  in  Osprynge,  a  messuage  in  Mallyng,  3  messuages  in  Lidde, 

a  windmill  in  the  parish  of  Whit8ta|>le,  a  piece  of  land  called  *  Archercourte ' 

in  the  parish  of  Bewesfeld,  a  messuage  in  Gravesende,  a  piece  of  land  in  the 

parish  of  Maydeston,  a  messuage  in  the  parish  of  Goddemersham,  a  piece 

.  of  land  called  '  Gentels '  in  the  parish  of  Aldyngton,  and  a  messuage  called 

^  Cokryng '  in  the  parish  of  Tenyngton,  co.  Kent,  the  office  of  alderman  of 

Westgate  in  Canterbury,  the  manor,  lordship  or  castle  of  Westbechesworth, 

and  5  messuages  in  Dorkyng,  co.  Surrey,  3  messuages  in  the  county  of 

Southampton,  a  tenement  in  the  county  of  Surrey  called  ^  Mymmys,'  and  a 

piece  of  land  in  the  same  county  called  *'  Flnsshlond,'  a  parcel  of  land  in 

Estbechesworth,  a  meadow  called  '  Bladynfreden '  in  the  county  of  Surrey, 

and  a  parcel  of  land  called  *  Benham,'  a  piece  of  land  called  *  Whityng,' 

and  a  messuage  called  *  le  place '   in  the  same  county,  the  manors  of 

Chankton,  Shapwyk,  Egle,  Compton,  Westmerden,  Estborn,  Foxhunt,  and 

Walstede,  co.  Sussex,  a  meadow  called  '  Litelworth,'  a  messuage  called 

^  Morforttys,'  6  messuages  in  Bye,  co.  Sussex,  12  messuages  and  100  acres 

of  land  in  Wynchelse,  the  manor   of  Boroughunt,  co.   Southampton,  a 

messuage  with  a  wharf  and  appurtenances  near  Byllyngesgate  in  the  city 

of  London,  6  messuap:e8  in  Lymestrete  in  the  city  of  London,  6  messuages 

with  a  wharf  in  the  Vintry,  London,  5  tenements  in  Knyghtriderstrete  in 

the  parish  of  St.  Benet,  London,  and  all  lands  and  possessions  late  of  the  said 

Thomas  Broun,  and  belonging  to  the  king  by  reason  of  his  attaint,  except 

the  manors  or  lordships  of  Swannescombe  and  Erehithe,  co.  Kent,  and  all 

other  lands  late  of  the  king's  father  Richard,  duke  of  fork,  except  also  the 

manors  of  Tonsford  and  Dane,  co.  Kent,  with  knights'  fees,  advowsons  and 

other  appurtenances,  without  impeachment  of  waste,  with  remainder  to 

William,  archbishop  of  York,  George,  bishop  of  Exeter,  Richard,  carl  of 

Wanvick,  John,  earl  of  Worcester,  Henry,  earl  of  Essex,  Humphrey,  lord 

Cromwell,  John,  lord  Stourton,  William,  lord  Hastynges,  and  John,  lord 

Weulok,  for  division  at  their  discretion  between  William,  George,  Thomas, 

Antony,  Robert,  Leonard  and  Edward,  sons  of  the  said  Thomas  Broun, 

according  to  his  last  will ;  and  also  of  all  his  goods  and  debts ;  and  grant 

to  William  Venour,  William  Beuet,  Thomas  Forster  and  all  other  persons 

who  have  been  enfeoffed  of  any  of  the  above  premises  to  the  use  of  the  said 

Thomas  Broun  of  a  licence  to  grant  the  same  to  the  said  Thomas  Yaghan 

and  Eleanor  as  above.  By  K. 

Dec.  16-         Grant  for  life  to  the  king's  servant  John  Wenlok,  knight,  lord  Wenlok, 
-^estmixttter.  of  the  office  of  steward  of  the  king's  lordships  and  manors  of  Langeley 


1  EDWARD  IV.— I'ART  III.  89 


1461.  Mefnbrane  9— con/. 

Mareys,  Wyrardesbuiy  and  Bledlowe,  co.  Buckingham,  from  Michaelmas 
last,  receiving  the  accustomed  fees  at  the  hands  of  the  bailiffs.  By  p.s. 

Dec.  22.         Grant  to  John  Denham,  esquire,  Thomas  Dymmok,  knight,  and  Walter 

Westminster.  Ralegh,  esquire,  from  4  March  last  for  the  life  of  Elizabeth,  wife  of  William 

Tallboys,  and  for  her  use,  of  the  third  part  of  all  manors  and  lands  of  which 

the  said  William  was  seised  within  the  realm  or  any  other  person  for  his 

use.  By  p.s. 

Nov.  22.         Grant  for  life  to  John  Peresson,  king's  clerk,  of  10/.  yearly  for   his 
Westminster,  lodging  and  sustenance  at  the  hands  of  the  customers  in  the  port  of  South- 
ampton to  celebrate  divine  service  in  the  king's  tower  in  the  town  for  the 
good  estate  of  the  king  and  the  souls  of  his  progenitors,  in  accordance  with 
the  original  grant  of  the  same  by  Richard  IE.  By  p.s. 

Nov.  24.         Grant  to  Agnes,  sometime  the  wife  of  Richard  Frevile,  of  the  ward  and 

Westminster,  custody  during  minority  of  the  land  and  heir  of  Thomas  Sterne  in  the 

county  of  Cambridge  with  the  marriage  of  the  heir,  and  so  from  heir  to 

heir  during  minority.  By  p.8. 

Dec.  6.  Grant  for  life  to  Henry  Gray  of  the  office  of  keeper  of  the  king's 

Westminster,  armoury  within  the  Tower  pf  London,  receiving  the  accustomed  fees  as  in 

the  times  of  Edward  III.  an4  Richard  II.  from  the  issues  of  the  county  of 

the  city  of  Norwich.  By  p.s. 


MAUBRAHfn  8. 

Nov.  28.         The  like  to  the  king's  servant  Richard  Crofft  the  youngei*  of  the  custody 

Westminster,  of  the  meadows  of  the  king's  manor  of  Wodestok,  co.  Oxford,  with  the 

accustomed  fees  from  the  issues  of  the  manor.  By  K. 

Dec.  12.         The  like  to  the  king's  servant  Thomas  Longe,  one  of  the  soldiers  of  the 

Westminster,  town  of  Calais,  of  the  office  of  bailiff  of  the  town  of  Rye,  with  the  accustomed 

fees.  By  K. 

Dec.  3.  Appointment  of  the  king's  kinsman  Richard,  earl  of  Warwick,  .to  execute 

Westminster,  the  office  of  steward  of  England  in  the  process  of  an  Act  of  Parliament 

against  Henry  VI.  and  others  who  murdered  the  king's  father  Ricliard, 

late  duke  of  York,  at  Wakefeld.  By  K.  by  word  of  mouth. 

Inspeantnus  and  confirmation  of  letters  patent  of  the  king's  father  Richard, 
duke  of  York,  true  heir  to  the  kingdom,  dated  at  London,  5  November,  39 
Henry  VI,,  being  an  appointment  for  life  of  his  servant  Thomas  Stringer 
as  porter  of  the  gate  of  the  outer  ward  of  his  castle  of  Denbiegh  and 
surveyor  of  his  works  there,  with  all  accustomed  profits. 

For  ^  mark  paid  in  the  hanaper. 

Dec.  14.  Commission  of  oyer  and  terminer  to  Masters  John  Druell,  doctor  of 
Westminster,  either  law,  Roger  Radclyf,  John  Aleck,  Richard  Wetton  and  Henry  Sharp, 
doctors  of  laws,  ou  appeal  by  Richard  Botyll  of  Berkyng,  co.  Essex,  against 
a  sentence  of  Master  John  Aleyn,  doctor  of  laws,  lieutenant  and  commis- 
sary-general of  the  king's  kinsman  Richard,  earl  of  Warwick,  admiral  of 
England,  Ireland  and  Aquitaine,  in  a  sea  case  before  him  between  William 
Graunt,  citizen  and  brewster  (pandwcatorem)  of  London,  and  the  said 
Richard,  by  which  the  latter  was  onlered  to  restore  a  skiff  called  John 
Colyns  bote,  of  the  value  of  10/.,  which  he  and  Robert  Hath,  Thomas 
Peysoke  and  John  Holman  of  Berkyng  had  stolen  from  the  former  on  the 
high  seas. 


90  CALENDAR  OP  PATENT  BOLLS. 


X461*  Membrane  S^^conL 

Nov.  25.        6rant  for  life  to  Geoffrey  More,  servant  of  the  king^s  privy  spicery,  of 
WeBtminster,  the  office  of  ranger  in  the  New  Forest,  co.  Southampton,  with  fees  as  in 
the  times  of  Edward  III.  and  Bichard  II.  from  the  issues  of  the  county. 

By  p.s. 

Vacated  by  surrender  and  cancelled^  because  on  4  August^  20  Edward 
IV.y  the  king  granted  the  office  by  letters  patent  to  Henry  Rake^  one  of  the 
yeomen  of  the  erown» 

Dec.  16.         The  like  to  William  Brigham,  esquire,  of  an  annuity  of  10  marks  from 
Westminster,  the  farm,  petty  custom  and  toll  at  the  town  of  St.  Pierre  and  *  le  Turaepyk 
de  Marque  *  in  the  marches  of  Calais.  By  p.s.  [693.] 

Vacated  because  elsewhere  on  the  French  Roll, 

Dec.  15.         The  like  to  William  Pecche,  knight,  of  the  power  of  levying  the  customs 

Westminster,  or  toll  called  'Sandegelt'  belonging  to  the  king  from  carts  laden  with 

merchandise  going  through  the  king's  lordships  of  Marke  and  Oye  in  the 

marches  of  Calais,  without  rendering  any  account.  By  p.s. 

Nov.  20.  The  like  to  Louis  John  of  the  custodies  of  the  king's  manor  and  park  of 
Westminster.  Pulbroke,  co.  Warwick,  and  the  yearly  agistment  of  the  park  and  the  yearly 
profits  of  a  several  meadow  called  '  Clote  mede '  there,  a  several  fishery  there 
in  the  river  Aven,  140  acres  of  unenclosed  pasture  lying  by  the  way  leading 
from  Fulbroke  to  Bishop's  Hampton,  and  a  small  close  called  *  Inlond,'  in 
the  king's  hands  by  the  forfeiture  of  Henry  VI.,  with  the  accustomed  fees  in 
the  same  manner  as  William  Parker,  late  parker  of  the  park,  excepting  a 
close  called  *  Northbroke.*  By  p.s. 

Vacated  by  surrender  and  cancelled^  because  the  king  granted  the  same 
to  John  Isham  by  other  letters- patent, 

Dec  17.         Appointment  of  John  Bourghchier  of  Barners,  knight,  constable  of  the 

Westminster,  king's  castle  of  Wyndesore,  or  his  lieutenant  to  take  stone-cutters,  carpenters, 

tilers  and  other  workmen  for  the  repair  of  the  castle  and  the  manor  within 

Wyndesore  park  and  the  manors  and  lodges  of  Suthenley,  G^ayldeford,  Foil 

.    John  and  Esthampstede  in  Wyndesore  forest,  and  carriage  for  timber,  lead, 

tiles,  stones  and  other  necessaries. 

1462. 

Jan.  23.         Presentation  of  Gruffith  Oorwith,  chaplain^  to  the  parish  church  of 
Westminster*  Pencarrec,  in  the  diocese  of  St.  Davids. 


146L  MBUAMlfB  7.^ 

Dec  15.  Pardon  io  William  fireerton  of  Breerton,  co.  Ch^fiitei*,  knight^  and  George 
Wostminstei^t  Darell  of  Litelcote,  co;  Wilts,  John  Stucley  of  Stiidey,  co.  Huntingdon,  and 
Boger  Eyton  of  Shrewsbury,  co.  Salop,  esquires,  of  100/.  each  and  to  John 
Browe  of  Staunford,  esquire^  alia^  of  Wodehed,  ^  gentilman,'  of  200/.,  in 
\vhich  they  had  bound  themselves  in  Chancery  on  lO  October,  39  Henry 
YI.,  for  the  appearance  of  the  latter  in  Chanc^y  within  one  month  of 
Easter,  iknd  that  no  harm  should  be  done  to  anyone  by  him  or  his  procur- 
ance,  and  which  600/.  was  forfeited  because  he  did  not  appear.  By  K. 

Dec.  21.         Pardon  to  John  Fogge,  knight,  alias  of  the  cotmty  of  Kent,  esquire,  of 

Westminster!  all  actidns  against  him  for  a  recognisance  of  1,000/.  made  by  him  to  Thomai^ 

Broune,  late  of  London,  knight,  by  the  name  of  Thomas  Broune^  esquire, 

on  3  March,  16  Henry  YI.,  to  be  paid  at  Easter  following,  and  all  actions 

and  debts  due  to  the  king  by  reason  of  the  forfeitttre  of  the  said  Thomas. 

Nov.  5.         Licence  for  the  sub-prior  and  convent  of  St.  Mary's,  Coventry,  to  elect  k 
Westminster,  prior  in  the  place  of  John  Shotteswell,  deceased.  By  p^. 


1  EDWARD  IV.— Part  III.  91 


1462.  Membrane  7~^cotU, 

Jan.  1.  Appointment,  during  good  behaviour,  of  John  Harper  as  auditor  of  the 

Weatminster.  accounts  of  all  bailifiEs,  reeves,  farmers,  feodaries,  receivers  and  all  other 

ministers  and  officers  of  the  king's  lordships  and  castles  of  Brekenok, 
Eantriesselly,  Talgard,  Hayc  and  Huntjngdon  and  the  five  hundreds  in  the 
county  of  Hereford,  late  of  Humphrey,  duke  of  Buckingham,  deceased,  and 
in  the  king's  hands  by  reason  of  the  minority  of  Henry  his  kinsman  and 
heir,  his  lordships  and  castles  of  Gower,  Eylbey,  Bromfeld,  Yale,  co.  Salop, 
late  of  John,  duke  of  Norfolk,  deceased,  and  in  the  king's  hands  by  reason 
of  the  minority  of  John  his  son  and  heir,  and  of  the  lordships,  manors  and 
lands  late  of  John,  earl  of  Shrewsbury,  deceased,  in  the  counties  of  Salop, 
Hereford  and  Gloucester,  now  in  the  king's  hands  by  reason  of  the 
minority  of  John  his  son  and  heir,  receiving  the  accustomed  fees  with  all 
other  profits.  By  p.s. 

The  like  of  the  said  John  as  auditor  of  the  accounts  of  all  bailiffs  and 
other  officers  of  all  the  king's  castles,  towns,  lordships,  manors  and  lands  in 
South  and  North  Wales  and  the  counties  of  Chester  and  Flint,  and  auditor 
of  the  castle  of  St.  Briavel  and  the  lordship  of  the  forest  of  Dene,  co. 
Gloucester,  with  fees  and  profits  as  above.  By  p.s* 

Jan.  22.  Grant  to  the  king's  servitor  Nicholas  Gaynesford^  esquire,  one  of  the 
Westminster,  ushers  of  the  king's  chamber,  and  the  heirs  of  his  body  of  the  manor  or 
lordship  of  Shalford  Clifford,  co.  Surrey,  with  the  park,  warren,  advowsons 
and  other  appurtenances,  to  the  value  of  20/.  yearly,  lately  belonging  to 
John,  late  lord  Clyfford,  a  rebel,  and  also  of  all  lands  in  the  Isle  of 
Axfiolme  with  the  demesne  plot  of  Nether  Burneham,  co.  Lincoln,  and  all 
other  lands  in  that  county  lately  belonging  to  John  Penicok,  a  rebel,  to  the 
value  of  12/.  yearly.  By  p.8. 

Feb.  1.  Grant. to  Walter  Scull,  knight,  and  his  heirs  male  of  all  lands,  rents 

Westminster,   and  services  in  Wyche,  Doverdale  and  their  suburbs,  Wychebolde,  Croulci 

Mylton  and  Hertylburie,  co.  Worcester,  to  fhe  value  of  20  marks  yearly,  in 

the  king's  hands  by  reason  of  the  forfeiture  of  John  Lenche,  esquire,  by 

authority  of  Parliament  at  Westminster,  4  November.  By  p.8. 

Jan,  30.  Appointment,  during  pleasure,  of  the  king's  servant  John  Milewateri 
Westminster,  esquire,  as  receiver  genenil  of  all  the  king's  castles,  lordships,  manors  and 
lands  within  the  forest  of  Dean,  all  castles,  lordships,  manors  and 
lands  in  the  counties  of  Gloucester,  Hereford,  Worcester  and  Salop  and 
Wales  and  the  marches  of  Wales  late  of  John,  duke  of  Norfolk,  tenant  in 
chief,  and  in  the  king's  hands  by  reason  of  the  minority  of  John  his  son 
and  heir,  late  of  Humphrey,  duke  of  Buckingham,  tenant  in  chief,  and  in 
the  king's  hands  by  reason  of  the  minority  of  Henry  his  heir,  late  of  John, 
earl  of  Shrewsbury,  tenant  in  chief,  and  in  the  king's  hands  by  reason  of 
the  minority  of  John  his  son  and  heir,  or  late  of  Henry,  duke  of  Somerset, 
and  JameS)  earl  of  Wilts,  and  in  the  king's  hands  by  reason  of  their 
forfeitures  and  by  authority  of  an  Act  of  Parliament  at  Westminster,  4 
November,  and  the  king's  castle  and  lordship  of  Haverford  West  in  South 
Wales,  receiving  10/.  yearly  for  his  fee,  wages  and  expenses  from  the  issues 
of  his  receipt.  By  p.s. 

Feb.  1.  General  pardon  to  Walter  Skull,  knight,  By  p.s, 

Westminster. 

1461.  MsMnMifn  6. 

Nov.  28.         Pardon  to  John  Salygode  kite  of  Watford,  co.  Hertford, '  servant,*  of  his 

Westminster,  outlawry  in  the  county  of  Huntingdon  for  not  appearing  before  the  justices 

of  the  Bench  in  the  fate,  reign  to  answer  Robert  Ferrour  for  leaving  his 

service,  he  having  surrendered  to  the  Flet«  prison,  as  appears  by  certificate 

of  Bobert  Danby,  knight,  chief  justice. 


9B  CALENDAR  OP  PATENT  ROLLS. 


1462.  Mefkbratie  6— ccm^. 

Jan.  12.  Foundation  of  a  fraternity  or  guild  of  the  men  of  Uie  mystery  of  clothiers 
Westminster,  of  the  town  of  Shrewsbury  to  find  a  chaplain  to  celebrate  divine  service  daily 
in  the  collegiate  parish  church  of  St.  Mary,  Shrewsbury,  for  the  good  estate 
of  the  king  and  the  brethren  and  sisters  of  the  guild  and  for  their  souls  after 
death  and  the  souls  of  the  king's  father  Richard,  his  brother  Edmund,  earl 
of  Rutland,  and  his  other  progenitors  and  successors,  and  also  certain  poor 
persons  of 'either  sex  to  pray  for  the  same,  to  be  called  the  guild  of  the 
Holy  Trinity  of  the  men  of  the  mystery  of  clothiers  of  the  town  of  Shrews- 
bury and  to  form  one  corporate  body  ;  and  appointment  of  Johu  Knyght  as 
master  and^Degory  Watur  and  Richard  Watur  as  wardens  or  guardians  of 
the  guild  for  the  ensuing  year.  The  members  shall  have  power  to  receive 
brethren  and  sisters,  to  choose  the  chaplain  and  poor  pei'sons  and  also  the 
master  and  guardians  for  their  governance  and  to  remove  them  if  necessary  at 
the  discretion  of  the  majority,  and  to  hold  possessions  and  sue  and  be  sued. 
Grant  to  them  also  of  all  the  lands,  rents  and  services  which  the  king  now 
has  with  Margaret  Dakkes  and  Roger  Webbe  in  Shrewsbury  and  in 
Foriecta  Monachorum,  Caludham  and  Castell  Foriecta  in  the  suburbs  and 
elsewhere  within  the  liberty  of  the  town  of  the  grant  of  Nicholas  Gerard, 
late  of  Shrewsbury,  esquire,  and  all  the  land?,  rents  and  services  in  Shrews- 
bury which  the  king  had  of  the  grant  of  Hugh  Dyer  alias  Berewik ;  and 
licence  for  them* to  acquire  lands,  tenements  and  rents,  not  held  in  chief,  to 
the  value  of  40/.  yearly.  By  p.s. 

Jan.  26.  Grant  to  Alice  Lynne  of  London,  widow,  and  her  heirs  and  assigns  that 
Westminster,  the  tronage  of  wools  in  the  port  of  London  shall  always  be*  at  a  house  now 
belonging  to  her  called  '  le  Weynghous '  situated  on  le  Newe  Woli  Wharf 
in  the  parish  of  St.  Mary  Berkyng,  London,  for  the  easement  of  which  and 
for  a  cellar  she  shall  receive  4/.  yearly  from  the  custoni  of  wools,  hides  and 
wool-fells  in  the  port.  By  p.s.  [741.] 

1461,  Mbubranb  5. 

I>ec«  22.  Grant  for  life  to  John  Clay,  king's  knight,  Joan  his  wife,  and  John  his 
Westminster.  8on  of  the  reversion  of  the  manor  of  Chesthunt,  co.  Hertford,  and  the 
advowson  of  the  church  there  with  knights'  fees,  lands,  rents,  liberties, 
waifs,  strays,  courts  leet,  wards,  marriages,  escheat's  and  other  appurtenances 
on  the  death  of  Elizabeth  Say,  widow,  who  holds  the  same  for  life  of  the 
king's  grant.  By  p.s. 

Grant  in  fee  simple  to  the  said  John  Clay,  for  his  good  service  to  the 
king  and  the  king's  father,  of  all  lands  and  possessions  of  which  Thomas 
Ormond,  esquire,  was  seised  in  the  counties  of  Essex  and  Cambridge,  in  the 
king's  hands  by  reason  of  his  forfeiture,  to  the  valuo  of  200  marks  yearly. 

By  pA 

June  14.         Grant  for  life  to  Nicholas  Suthcote,  one  of  the  king's  Serjeants  at  arms, 

Westminster,    of  wages  of  I2d.  daily  from  4  March  last  from  the  issues  of  the  counties  of 

Somerset  and  Dorset,  and  a  liveiy  of  the  suit  of  esquires  of  the  household 

yearly  at  the  great  wardrobe.  By  K.  by  word  of  mouth. 

1462. 

Jan.  12.         The  like  to  Thomas  Jolyf,  for  his  good  service  to  the  king's  father  and 

Westminster,  others  of  his  kinsmen  and  friends,  of  the  office  of  bailiff  of  the  liberty  and 

franchises  of  the  king's  honour  of  Richemond  in  the  counties  of  Norfolk 

and  Suffolk,  with  the  accustomed  fees.  By  K. 

1461. 

July  23.         The  like  to  Richard  Langport,  clerk,  of  the  office  of  clerk  of  the  king's 

Westminster,  eoimcil,  receiving  40  marks  yearly  from  4  March  last  from  the  issues  of  Uie 

king's  manor  or  lordship  of  Bradwell,  co.  Essex,  and  a  summer  and  winter 

livery  at  the  great  wardrobe.  By  p.s« 


I  BDWAED  IV^— Part  III.  »^ 


1462*  Metnhrane  5 — cont. 

Jail.  29.  Grant  to  Nicholas  Gi^nesford,  king*s  esquire,   usher  of    the  king's 

WevtviiiBter.  chamber,  of  the  custody  of  all  lands  late  of  John  Michelgrove,  deceased, 
tenant  in  chief  of  B'enrj  VI.  by  knight-service,  during  the  minority  of 
Elizabeth  hii  daughter  and  hoiresa,  with  the  marriage  of  the  latter. 

fBy  p.s. 

Feb.  I.  Grant  to  Thomas  Burgh,  one  of  the  esquires  of  the  b<^y,  and  John 

Westmiiwter.  Ingelfeld,  esquire,  and  their  assigns  from  Michaelmas  last  during  the  life  of 
Imavia,  late  the  wife  of  Thomas  Skalys,  knight,  of  the  manor  and  lordship 
of  Shiplake,  co.  Oxford,  and  all  lands  and  possessions  in  that  county  late  of 
the  said  ImaTia  and  now  in  the  king's  hands,  with  knights'  fees,  advowsons, 
courts  leet,  ^dews  of  frank-pledge,  parks,  warrens  and  other  profits,  rendering 
20/.  yearly  at  the  Esccbcqner  and  supporting  all  houses,  .buildings  and 
enclosures.  By  p4i. 

1461. 

Dec.  1,  Qrapt  for  life  to  Thomas  Stotfold  and  William  Purpill  of  the  office  of 

'Westmioftctr.  keeper  of  the  small  park  and  warren  of  Bardefeld,  co.  Essex,  receiving  the 

accustomed  fees  with  all  other  profits,  in  lieu  of  a  grant  of  the  some  to  the 

said  Thomas  by  letters  patent  of  the  king's  father  Richard,  duke  of  York, 

confirmed  by  letters  patent  of  the  king,  surt*endered.  By  p.s. 

1462. 

Feb.  1.  Grant  in  frank  almoin  to  John,  the  abbot,  and  the  convent  of  St.  Mary's, 

Westmiaeter.  Teukesbury,  co.  Gloucester,  in  the  diocese  of  Worcester,  at  the  request  of 
the  king's  kinsman  Richard,  earl  of  Warwick,  great  chamberlain  of  Engknd, 
and  Anne  his  consort,  patroness  of  the  said  monastery,  of  the  advowson  of 
the  alien  priory  of  Goldclyff  in  the  marches  of  Wales,  in  the  diocese  of 
Llondafi*,  with  all  manors,  knights'  fees,  advowsons,  lands,  rents,  services, 
mills,  woods,  meadows,  villeins,  wards,  marriages,  courts,  views  of  frank 
pledge,  liberties  and  other  emoluments  and  appurtenances  in  England  and 
Wales,  belonging  to  the  king  as  true  heir  of  Edward  III.  and  Richard  II., 
to  celebrate  divine  service  within  the  monastery  for  the  good  estate  of  the 
king  and  the  said  earl  and  his  wife,  and  for  their  souls  after  death,  and  the 
souU  of  the  king's  father  Richard,  duke  of  York,  his  brother  Edmund,  earl 
of  Rutland,  his  uncle  Richard,  earl  of  Salisbury,  and  Isabel,  late  countess  of 
Warwick,  wife  of  Richard,  late  earl  of  Warwick.  By  p.s. 

Jan.  23.  Grant,  during  pleasui-e,  to  the  king's  sister  Margaret  of  40/.  yearly  at 

Westmiiuter.  the  Exchequer  from  Michaelmas  last.  By  p.s. 

Feb.  5.  Mandate  to  all  bailiffs  and  others  to  permit  Thomas  Michelson,  clerk,  a 

Westmiiuter.  native  of    Scotland,  dwelling  at  Mikelfeld  in  the  diocese  of  Norwich  in 

England,  who  has  taken  an  oath  of  fealty,  to  inhabit  the  realm  peaceably 

and  enjoy  his  goods.  By  p.8. 


1461^  Membrane  4. 

Oct.  15.         Grant  to  Roger  Coverdale,  clerk  in  the  office  of  the  privy  seal,  of  the 

We«tntiofter.  free  chupel  of  Egnlleswall  within  the  loi*dship  of  Egulleswall,  in  the  diocese 

of  Hereford.  By  p.s. 

Sept.  5.  Grant   to  Richard  Chok,  one  of  the  justices  of  the  Bench,  for  the 

Bristol.  better  maintenance  of  his  estate,  of  110  marks  yearly  at  the  hands 
of  the  keeper  of  the  hanaper  or  the  customers  in  the  ports  of  London, 
Bristol,  and  Kyngeston  on  Hall,  according  to  the  form  of  an  Act  of 
Parliament  at  Westminster,  18  Henry  YI.,  and  of  106f.  \l\d.  and  the 
sixth  part  of  \d.  yearly  at  Christmas  for  a  furred  robe,  and  6d#.  6d.  yearly 
at  Whitsuntide  for  a  lined  robe. 


U  OAIiBNDA.R  OF  PATENT  ROLLS, 


J4gJ^  Membrane  ^-^^^ont, 

Oct.  30.  General  pardon  to  John  Jehan  for  all  offences  committed  by  him  before 

Westminster.   20  July  last.  By  p.s. 

June  20*         Appointment,  during  good  behaviour,  of  Peter  Arderne,  knight^  as  chief 
Westminster,  baron  of  the  Exchequer,  receiving  the  accustomed  fees.  By  p.8* 

Nov.  9.  Inspeximtis  and  confirmation  of  letters  patent  of  Humphrey,  duke  of 

Westminster.   Gloucester,  son,  brother  and  uncle  of  kings,  earl  of  Pembroke  and  great 

chamberlain  of  England,  dated   at  his  manor  of  Plaisance,  7  January, 

23  Henry  VI.,  being  a  grant  for  life  to  his  servitor  Henry  Habyndon  of 

a  rent  of  8/.  yearly  from  the  issues  of  Hadley  Ree  and  Legh  Ree,  co.  Essex. 

By  p.s.,  and  for  \  mark  paid  in  the  hanaper. 

Nov.  14.        General  pardon  to  Richard  Assebv,  burgess  of  Grymmesby,  co.    Lincoln, 

Westminster,  and  grant  to  him  of  all  the  goods  and  lands  that  were  his  after  the  first  day 

of  the  reign.  By  p.s. 

Nov.  24.        Ratification  to  John  Crecy  of  his  possession  of  the  deanery  of  the  king's 

Westminster,  free  chapel  of  St.  Mary,  Shrewsbury,  and  his  prebend  in  the  king's  free 

chapel  of  St.  Stephen  within  his  palace  of  Westminster.  By  p.s. 

Nov.  13.         Inspeximus  and  confirmation   of  letters   patent   of   the   king's    father 

Westminster.   Richard,  duke  of  York,  dated  at  Gloucest.cr,  2  October,  1460,  being  a  grant 

for  life  to  George  Hilton,  for  his  go<5d  service  to  him  and  his  son  Edward, 

earl  of  March,  according  to  a  certain  indenture,  of  a  yearly  rent  of  100«. 

from  the  issues  of  his  lordship  of  Wakefield. 

For  \  mark  paid  in  the  hanaper. 

Dec.  1.  Pardon,  for  221.  paid  in  the  hanaper,  to  David  ap  Javan,  rector  of  ihe 

Westminster,  church  of  Acton  Bornell,  and  William  Tagge,  rector  of  the  church  of 
Norton  in  Halis,  for  their  trespass  in  acquiring  in  fee  from  William  Burley, 
alias  Boerley,  of  Bromcrofte,  and  Margaret  his  wife  the  manor  of  Aerley, 
CO.  Stafford,  held  in  chief,  and  entering  thereon  without  licence  of  the 
late  king. 

Exemplification,  at  the  i^equest  of  the  tenants  of  the  manor  of  Houstone 

Westminster,  and  the  town  of  Sewelle,  of  a  certificate  in  Chancery  by  the  treasurer  and 
chamberlains  of  an  entry  in  Domesday  Book  under  the  title  of  the  king's 
land  in  the  county  of  Bedford,  beginning  M,  Houstone  and  ending  dicere 
audier\     [Dotnesdai/  Book^foL  209. 6.] 

Dec.  6.  General  pardon  to  the  king's  kinsman  Richard,  earl  of  Warwick,  and 

Westminster.  Anne  his  wife  of  all  offences  committed  by  them.  By  p.s. 

Dec.  22.         Appointment,  during  pleasure,  of  Vincent  Pitelesden  as  receiver  from 
Westminster.   Michaelmas  last  of  all  lordships,  manors  and  lands  late  of  Thomas,  earl  of 
Devon,   in   the  counties   of  Devon,    Cornwall,   Somerset,   Dorset,  BerkS| 
Buckingham  and  Southampton,  receiving  the  accustomed  fees. 

By  bill  of  treasurer. 

1462. 

Jan.  21.  Release  to  John  Lok,  Geoflrey  Boleyn,  Thomas  Bryan,  *gentilman,' 
Westminster.  Thomas  Burgoyn,  John  Alburgh,  Henry  Newman  and  Master  William 
Dallyng,  clerk,  who  are  seised  in  their  demesne  as  of  fee  in  the  manor  of 
Albotteslee  formerly  called  *  Scottesmaner,'  co.  Huntingdon,  formerly  of 
John,  late  viscount  Beaumonte,  and  other  his  co-feofiees  for  his  use,  of  all 
the  king's  rights  in  the  said  manor  by  reason  of  the  forfeiture  or  attaint  of 
William  Beaumonte,  knight,  son  of  the  said  viscount,  by  an  act  of  Parlia- 
ment at  Westminster,  1  Kdward  IV.  By  K. 

\^Q\.  Membrane  3. 

July  22.  Grant  to  Philippa,  late  the  wife  of  Valentine  Chich,  esquire^  tenant 

Westminster,  in   chief  of  Henry   VT.,  of  the   custody   of  all    his   lordships,  manors, 


1  EDWARD  IV.— Pabt  III.  ^S 


1461  f  Membrane  3 — cont, 

lands  and  other  possessions  during  the  minority  of  Maigaret,  his  daughter 
and  heiress,  with  the  custody  and  marriage  of  the  latter,  and  of  the  like 
during  the  minority  oF  the  next  heir  should  she  die  a  minor  or  if  the  child 
with  which  she  herself  is  pregnant  should  be  male,  and  so  from  heir  to 
heir,  finding  a  competent  sustenance  for  the  heir  and  supporting  all 
charges.  By  p.s. 

May  5.  Grant  to  the  king's  kinsman  Richard,  earl  of  Warwick,  of  all  the  offices, 

Hiddlebam.  b;rms  and  custodies  which  his  father  Richard,  earl  of  Salisbury,  deceased, 
had  or  which  he  had  conjointly  with  his  father  or  with  Thomas  Nevill  and 
John  Nevill,  knights,  his  brothers,  or  any  of  them  by  letters  of  Henry  YI., 
to  hold  the  said  offices  for  life  and  the  farms  and  custodies  for  a  term  of 
twenty  years.  By  K. 

July  10.         Grant  for  life  to  John  Copeldike,  esquire,  of  the  office  of  bailiff  of  the 
Weatmiiigter.  town  of  Wynchelsee,  with  the  accustomed  fees.  By  p,s. 

July  16.         The  like  to  Thomas  Walton,  esquire,  of  the  office  of  one  of  the  king's 

Westminster.  Serjeants  at  arms,  with  wages  of  12rf.  daily  from  4  March  last  from  the 

issues  of  the  counties  of  Norfolk  and  Suffolk  and  a  coat  of  the  king's  livery 

yearly  at  Christmas  at  the  great  wardrobe  of  the  same  suit  and  cloth  as 

other  Serjeants  at  arms,  with  all  other  accustomed  fees. 

By  K.  by  word  of  mouth. 

July  13.         Appointment  of  Richard  Darlond  as  receiver  of  the  manor  or  lordship  of 
Westminster.  Milton  and  all  lands  late  of  James,  earl  of  Wilts,  in  the  counties  of  Kent 
and  Surrey,  with  the  accustomed  fees,  from  Michaelmas  last  so  long  as  they 
remain  in  the  king's  hands,  making  his  account  yearly  at  the  Exchequer. 

By  bill  of  treasurer^ 

July  16.  Grant  to  Richard,  bishop  of  Salisbury,  for  twenty  years  from  Easter  last^ 

Westminster*  of  the  castle,  manor,  park,  borough  and  lordship  of  Devise,  the  town  of 
Roude  and  the  forests  of  Melkesham,  Fevesham  and  Chippenham,  co.  Wilts, 
rendering  46/.  13«.  4cf.  yearly  at  the  Exchequer.  The  king  granted  the 
custody  of  the  same  to  him  by  letters  patent  dated  8  April,  containing  a 
clause  providing  for  the  transfer  of  the  custody  to  anybody  who  should 
offer  a  higher  price,  which  is  now  cancelled ;  and  the  rent  was  fixed  on  12 
April  by  agieement  with  Henry,  earl  of  Essex,  viscount  Bourgchier, 
treasurer  of  England.  By  p.s.  and  for  \  mark  paid  in  the  hanaper. 

July  3.  Grant  in  frank  almoin  to  the  prior  and  convent  of  Ivychurch  by  the 

Westmiuster.  king^s  park  of  Claringdon,  co.  Wilts,  in  return  for  their  release  of  a  plot  of 
land  called  *•  Feleschcrof  tis '  and  pasture  for  40  oxen  and  cows  and  20  swine 
with  their  issues  within  the  park,  granted  to  them  by  the  king's  progenitors, 
and  all  their  rights  in  the  park,  of  the  church  or  prebend  of  Uphavyn,  co. 
Wilts,  called  an  alien  priory,  with  the  chapel  of  Charleton  annexed,  with 
fruits,  tithes,  jurisdictions,  lands,  woods,  rents,  services,  advowsons, 
franchises,  liberties,  views  of  frank  pledge,  courts  and  other  appurtenances, 
provided  that  they  pay  tithes  granted  by  the  clergy  of  the  province  of 
Canterbury  and  moneys  due  to  the  church  of  Salisbury.  By  p.s. 

April  18.        Appointment,   during  pleasure,  of  Thomas  Barton  as  controller  of  the 
Westminster,  king's  petty  custom  in  the  port  of  London  and  ports  and  places  adjacent, 
receiving  the  accustomed  fees,  provided  that  he  execute  the  office  in  person, 
with  the  custody  of  one  part  of  the  coket  seal. 

By  bill  of  treasurer. 

Oct.  2.  The  like  of  William  Hatclyff  in  the  same.  By  bUl  of  treasurer. 

Westminster. 

Nov.  6.  The  like  of  John  Pilkyngton  as  controller  of  the  subsidy  of  3*.  in  the  tun 

,  Westminster^  and  \2d.  in  the  pound  in  the  same*  By  bill  of  treasurer. 


Od  CALENDAB  OF  PATENT  ROLLS. 


X461.  ^  Membrane  2. 

July  24.         Appointment  for  life  of  the  king's  servant  John  Bolyngton  as  marshal 

Weitminiter.  of  the  Chief  Bench,  the  Exchequer  and  the  Common  Bench  of  Ireland 

and  the    king's  justices  and  commissioners  there  and  controller  of  the 

customs  and  subsidies  of  cokets  there,  with  all  accustomed  profits.     By  p.s. 

July  26.  Appointment  for  life  of  Geoffrey  Gate  as  the  king's  lieutenant  of  the  Isle 
Westminster,  of  Wyght  and  his  castle  and  lordship  of  Caresbroke  and  receiver  of  all  the 
issues  of  the  same  and  all  other  lordships,  manors,  lands  and  possessions  of 
the  king  within  the  island,  receiving  2s,  daily  as  lieutenant,  6#.  Sd.  daily  as 
wages  of  10  men  at  arms,  and  Ss,  Sd,  daily  as  wages  of  20  archers  for  the 
safe  custody  of  the  same  firom  the  said  issues  and  accounting  for  the  surplus 
at  the  Exchequer.  By  K. 

Vacated  by  surrender  and  cancelled^   because  the  king  granted  the 
offices  to  him  by  other  letters  patent^  13  March^  6  Edward  lY. 

July  27.  Grant  to  John  Paston,  esquire,  and  Thomas  Hows,  clerk,  of  700  marks, 
Westminster,  viz. : — 100  marks  from  the  first  moneys  from  the  fee  farm  and  issues  of  the 
city  of  Norwich  and  100  marks  yearly  from  the  issues  of  the  counties  of 
Norfolk  and  Suffolk  until  the  whole  be  paid,  in  satisfaction  of  a  bill 
(English)  dated  12  July,  by  which  the  *  king  acknowledges  that  he  has 
received  of  thorn  by  the  assent  of  Thomas,  archbishop  of  Canterbury,  and 
Master  John  Stokys,  clerk,  *an  nowche  of  gold  with  a  gret  poynted 
dyamaunt  set  upon  a  rose  euamellid  white  and  a  nowche  of  gold  in  facion  of 
a  raggedstaff  with  2  yroages  of  man  and  woman  garnysshed  with  a  ruby  a 
dyamaunt  and  a  gret  porle  '  which  the  king's  father  pledged  to  Sir  John 
Fastx>lff,  knight,  fbr  437/.  and  an  obligation  of  the  same  to  the  said  knight's 
roan  in  100  marks,  and  promises  to  pay  the  said  700  marks  in  sums  of 
200, 200,  200  and  100  marks  at  the  four  next  feasts  of  All  Sainto. 

By  K.  by  word  of  mouth. 

July  26.         Grant  for  life  to  Richard  Neel  of  40/.  yearly  from  Easter  last  from  the 
WestmiDster.  farm  of  the  town  of  Derby.  By  p.s. 

July  25.         The  like  to  John  Rogger  of  the  office  of  the  custody  of  the  king's 
Westminster,  armoury  within  the  Tower  of  London,  receiving  the  accustomed  fees  from 
the  issues  of  the  county  of  Kent. 

July  21.         Grant    to  Nicholas  Gaynesford,  king's  esquire,   usher    of    the  king's 

Westmioster.  chamber,  of  the  custody  of  the  lands  late  of  John  Michelgrove,  deceased, 

tenant  in  chief  by  knight-servioe,  during  the  minority  of  Elizabeth  his 

daughter  and  heiress,  with  the  marriage  of  the  latter.  By  p.s. 

July  15.  Grant  for  life  to  George  Myddylton  of  the  office  of  porter  of  the  kins's 

Westminster,  manor  of  Claryngdon,  with  fees  as  in  the  last  year  of  Edward  III.  and  the 

first  of  Richard  II.  By  p.s. 

July  11.         The  like  to  the  king's  servant  Wijliam  Elyot  of  the  custody  of  the  king's 
Westminster,  park  of  Gylforth,  with  fees  as  above.  By  p.s. 

July  24.  Inspexitntts  and  confirmation  to  Stephen  Preston  of  letters  patent  of  the 
Westminster,  king's  father  Richard,  duke  of  York,  both  dated  at  London,  1  November, 
1460,  (I)  appointing  him  for  life  constable  and  keeper  of  his  castle  of 
Briggewater,  co.  Somerset,  receiving  the  accustomed  fees  from  the  issues 
of  his  lordships  in  the  county,  and  (2)  appointing  him  for  life  his  lieutenant 
and  keeper  of  the  forest  or  park  of  Federton  by  Briggewater,  with  the 
accustomed  fees  ;  and  grant  to  him  of  full  power  and  authority  in  the  park 
as  the  rangers  and  foresters  have  always  had. 

By  K.  and  for  \  mark  paid  in  the  hanapcr. 

Aug.  14.         Appointment,  during  pleasure,  of  Richard  Rokyngton  to  take  stone- 
Westminster,   cutters,  masons,  plumbers,  tilers,  smiths,  plasterers  and  other  workmen 
for  the  repairs  at  the  king's  palace  of  Westminster,  Tower  of  London  and 
manor  of  Eltham  and  elsewhere  within  the  realm  and  also  stones,  timber. 


1  EDWAED  IV.-.PART  III.  97 


l4i6l»  Membrane  2 — cont. 

iron,  leady  glass,  tiles,  laths,  shingles,  boards  and  other  necessaries  and 
carriage  for  the  same. 
The  like  of  the  following  :-<~ 
William  Smalwode. 
John  Hurlej. 

Membranh  1. 

Jnly  12.         General  pardon  to  Richard  Wjdevill,  knight,  of  Byvers  of  all  offences 
Westminster,  committed  by  him,  and  grant  that  he  may  hold  and  enjoy  his  possessions 

and  offices.  By  p.s. 

July  23.         The  like  to  Antony  Wydeville,  knight,  of  Scales.  By  p.8. 

Westminster. 

July  26.         Grant  for  life  to  John  Moygno,  for  his  good  service  to  the  king  and  the 

Westminster,  king's  father  Richard,  duke  of  York,  of  the  office  of  forester  of  la  Westbailly 

within  the  forest  of  JPurbek,  co.  Dorset,  with  the  accustomed  fees  from  the 

issues  of  the  counties  of  Somerset  and  Dorset.  By  K. 

July  23.  Inspeanmus  and   coDflrmation   of  letters  patent  of    the    king's   father 

Westminster.  Richard,  duke  of  York,  dated  at  London,  25  April,  14  Henry  VI.,  being 

a  grant  for  life  to  his  sister  Isabel,  countess  of  Eu,  of  a  yearly  rent  of 

100/.  from  the  issues  of  his  manors  or  lordships  iu  the  counties  of  Norfolk, 

Suffolk  and  Essex.  By  K.  and  for  20^.  paid  in  the  hanaper. 

June  20.  Inspeximus  and  confirmation  of  letters  patent  of  the  said  duke  date<l  al 

Westminster,  his  castle  of  Lodelowe,  18  April,  30  Henry  VI.,  being  a  grant  for  life  to 
Nicholas  Pemberton,  esquire,  of  a  yearly  rent  of  100*.  from  the  issues  of  his 
manor  and  lordship  of  Wakefield,  co.  York. 

For  \  mark  paid  in  the  hanaper. 

July  10.  Confirmation  to  Elizabeth,  the  abbess,  and  the  convent  of  St.  Saviour  and 
Weetmiofter.  SS.  Mary  and  Bridget,  Syon,  of  their  foundation  by  Henry  V.  and  their 
endowmeats  by  Heniy  V.  and  Henry  VI.  and  all  their  estate  in  the  manor 
of  Istilworth,  co.  Middlesex,  a  fishery  called  ^Routewere*  by  the  same 
within  the  banks  of  the  Thames,  a  weir  by  Kyngeston  on  Thames  called 
*  Hammewere,'  co.  Surrey,  and  a  parcel  of  mearlow  adjacent  enclosed  by  tho 
river  Thames  and  a  ditch,  a  dove-cote  and  a  iiarcel  of  land  adjacent  in 
Petrisham,  co.  Surrey,  a  dove-cote  and  a  parcel  of  land  adjacent  in 
Hamme,  2  acres  of  land  in  Y'evele,  co.  Somerset,  with  the  advowson 
of  the  church  of  Yevele,  the  manur  of  Worton  and  all  lands,  rents  and 
services  which  Alice,  late  the  wife  of  Edmund  Fauconer,  deceased,  lately 
held  for  life  in  Istilworth  of  the  grant  of  Edward  III.,  the  priories  of 
Oterton  alias  Otryngton,  co.  Devon,  and  Lancastre  with  their  appurtenances, 
all  lands  and  possessions  late  of  the  alien  abbot  and  convent  of  Seez  within 
the  realm,  the  priory  of  Lodres,  co.  Dorset,  with  all  its  lands  and  possessions, 
a  portion  in  the  church  of  Martok,  co.  Somerset,  with  its  appurtenances, 
late  parcel  of  the  possessions  of  the  abbot  and  convent  of  Mont  St.  Michel, 
4  tuns  of  Gascon  wine  yearly  in  the  fK)rt  of  London,  all  lands  and  posses.sions 
^  late  of  the  alien  abbot  and  convent  of  Fecamp  in  Normandy  in  the  counties 

of  Sussex  and  Gloucester  and  elsewhere  within  the  realm  which  John 
Cornewaill,  knight,  and  Elizabeth  his  wife,  deceased,  Litely  held  for  life  of 
the  grant  of  Henry  V.,  the  manors,  rectories  or  churches  of  Chilham, 
Molessh  and  Treulegh  formerly  of  the  abbot  and  convent  of  St.  Bertin 
beyond  seas,  the  manor  of  Grauncortes,  co.  Essex,  a  messuage,  a  carucate 
and  2  virgates  of  land,  24  acres  of  meadow,  4  acres  of  wood,  20  acres  of 
pasture,  18«.  rent  and  pasture  for  100  sheep  in  Istilwoith,  Twykenham, 
Worton  and  Heston,  co.  Middlesex,  the  manor  of  Hynton  with  appurtenances 
called  '  Uphalle,'  co.  Cambridge,  and  all  lands,  rents  and  services  which 
Henry  Fitz  Hugh,  lord  of  Ravenswath,  deceased,  lately  had  in  the  towns  of 
«    %%^u,  Q 


M  CALENDAB  OV  PATENT  BOLLS. 


1461.  Membrane  1— con^. 

HjntOD,  Great  Wilburgham  and  Little  Wilbarghaniy  co.  Cambridge,  and 
the  reversion  of  the  manor  of  Michelhampton  €Uias  Mjnchynhampton,  co. 
Gloucester,  lately  belonging  to  the  alien  abbey  of  Caen,  which  Alice,  duchess 
of  Suffolk,  holds  for  life  of  the  grant  of  Henry  Y.,  with  all  hundreds,  courts 
Jeet,  wapentakes,  views  of  frank-pledge,  manors,  lands,  possessions,  rents, 
services,  suits,  villeins,  churches,  knights'  fees,  wards,  reliefs,  escheats, 
advowsons,  woods,  warrens,  fairs,  markets,  liberties,  franchises  and  other 
profits,  that  they  may  pray  for  the  good  estate  of  the  king  and  Cicely  his 
mother  and  for  their  souls  after  death  and  the  souls  of  the  king's  father 
Bichard,  late  duke  of  York,  and  his  progenitors. 

By  pj9.  and  for  20/.  paid  in  the  hanaper. 

Sept.  5.         Appointment,  during  pleasure,  of  Bichard  Chok  as  one  of  the  justices  of 
Bristol.       the  Bench,  receiving  the  accustomed  fee.  By  C. 

Ju]y  8.  Grant  for  life  to  the  king's  servant  Balph  Cliderowe  of  the  town  of  Calais 

WestmiuBter.  of  the  office  of  ranger  of  the  king's  forest  of  Whichewode,  co.  Oxford,  with 
fees  of  id,  daily  from  the  issues  of  the  counties  of  Oxford  and  Berks. 

By  p.8. 
Vacated  because  otherwise  in  the  same  year  in  the  fifth  roll, 

MSMBRANS  21d. 

Aug.  12.  Commission  to  the  king's  kinsman  Bichard,  earl  of  Warwick,  William, 
Westmiaster.  earl  of  Arundel,  John  Audeley  of  Audeley,  John  Sutton  of  Duddeley, 
knight,  William  Bourghchier  of  Fitz  Waren,  knight,  Bichard  Grey  of 
Fowes,  William  Ludlowe,  Boger  Kynaston,  Thomas  Hoorde,  Hugh 
Stepulton,  John  Lanley,  Nicholas  Eton,  Boger  Foxe,  Balph  Lee, 
Thomas  Corbet  of  Lye  and  the  sheriQT  to  urge  the  king's  subjects  of  the 
county  of  Salop  to  array  a  force  at  their  own  expense  for  defence  of 
the  county  and  the  adjoining  parts  of  Wales  against  the  rebels,  to  be  at 
Hereford  on  the  Nativity  of  the  Virgin. 

ByK. 
The  like  to  the  following  in  the  counties  named  : — 

Bichard,  earl  of  Warwick.  John  Beauchamp  of  Powyk,  knight,  John 

Sutton  of  Duddeley,  knight,  Walter  Skull,  knight,  Thomas  Lygen, 

Thomas  Holford  and  the  sheriff,  in  the  county  of  Worcester. 

Bichard,  eari  of  Warwick,  John  Audeley  of  Audeley,  John  Sturton  of 

Sturton,  knight,  Humphrey  Stafford  of  Suthewyke,  knight,  William 

Sturton,    knight,    William    Carraunt,    John    Neuburgh,    William 

Brownyng,  John  Stork,  William  Kailwaye,  Thomas  Husy  and  the 

sheriff^  in  the  county  of  Dorset. 

Bichard,  earl  of  Warwick,  William,  earl  of  Arundel,  William  Botreaux, 

knight,  John  Audeley  of  Audeley,  John  Sturton  of  Sturton,  knight, 

Humphrey  Stafford  of  Suthwike,  knight,  Edmund  Hongerford,knighti 

Boger  Tocotes,  knight,  John  Willughby,  knight,  Eteginald  Sturton, 

knight,  Henry  Long,  John  Whitokesmede,  Thomas  Bogers,  Philip 

Morgan  and  the  sheriff,  in  the  county  of  Wilts. 

Bichard,  earl  of  Warwick,  James  Berkeley,  knight,  Balph  de  Su^pley, 

knight,  John  Beauchamp  of  Powyk,  knight,  John  Grevile,^  William 

Notyngham,  John  Botiller  of  Badmyngton,  Giles  de  Brigge',  William 

Clyfford,  William  Walweyn  of  Bikerton  and  tlie  sheriff,  in  the  county 

of  Gloucester. 

Bichard,  earl  of  Warwick,  Walter  Devereux  of  Ferrers,  knight,  William 

Herbert  of  Herbert,  knight,  James  Baskervile,  Eustace  Whitteney, 

Thomas  Bromwiche,  John  Welford,  Thomas  Brigge  of  Bosse,  John 

Kene  and  the  sheriff,  in  the  county  of  Hereford. 

Bichard,  earl  of  V/arwick,  William  Bourgchier  of  Fitz  waren,  knight, 

Philip  Courtenay,  knight,  John   Dynham,   Boger  Champernoun, 


1  EDWABD  IV^Pabt  HI.  '  96 


1461«  Membrane  2*7d — cont, 

Walter  Halegh,  John  Gyfford,  John  More,  Thomas  Donrjsshe  the 
younger,  John  Orchard  and  the  sheriff,  in  the  county  of  Devon. 
Richard,  earl  of  Warwick,  William  Botreaux,  knight,  John  Audeley  of 
Audeley,  John  Stouiton  of  Stourton,  knight,  Humphrey  Stafford  of 
Suthwike,  knight,  Theobald  Gorges,  knight,  William  Courtenayy 
John  Cheney  of  Penne,  Robert  Wan*e,  John  Sydenham  the  elder, 
John  Fitz  James,  Robert  Stowell,  John  Porter  and  the  sheriff,  in  the 
county  of  Somerset. 

Membrane  26d. 

Aag.  10.         Commission  to  William  Herbert,,  knight,  lord  Herbert,  Thomas  Herbert, 
Westminster,  esquire  of  the  body,  John  Herbert  and  Hugh  Huntley  to  take  into  the  king's 

hands  the  county  and  lordship  of  Pembroke  with  its  appurtenances  in 
England  and  Wales  and  the  marches  of  Wales  and  all  castles,  lordships, 
manors,  lands  and  possessions  late  of  Jaspar,  earl  of  Pembroke,  a  rebel,  the 
castle  of  Dunster,  co.  Somerset,  and  all  other  castles,  lordships,  manors,  lands 
and  possessions  late  of  James  Loterell,  knight,  a  rebel,  deceased,  and  the 
castles  and  lordships  of  Godricbe  and  Urchenfeld  in  the  county  of  Hereford 
and  the  marches  of  Wales  adjoining  that  county  and  the  county  of 
Gloucester,  and  the  advowsons  pertaining  to  the  same,  belonging  to  the 
king  by  the  forfeiture  of  John,  late  earl  of  Shrewsbury ;  with  power  to 
appoint  stewards,  constables,  receivers,  auditors  and  other  bailiffs.      By  p.8. 

Aug.  28.         Commission  to  the  bailiffs  of  Scardeburgh  to  arrest  John  Lambert  and 
Silbory.       bring  him  before  the  king  in  council. 

Aug.  30.        Appointment,  during  pleasui'e,  of  Richard  Frankton  to  make  provision 
Silbuiy.       of  fuel  for  the  equipment  and  defence  of  the  town  of  Calais. 

Ang.  28.         Commission  to  Richard  Frankton  to  inquire  into  the  wreck  of  a  hulk 
Silbvry.       (hulca)   of  Middelburgh  on  the  coast  of  Essex,  and  to  cause  the  gear 
of  the  hulk  and  divers  goods  and  merchandise  thrown  ashore  to  be  restored 
to  their  owners. 

Sept.  10.        Commission  to  William  Wadyn,  Richard  Wadyn,  and  John  Power,  to 
MalmcBbuiy.   provide  victuals   and  gear,   caniage   for  the   same  and  marimers  for   a 
ship  called  le  Cristofre  Dampne  of  Bristol,  one  of  a  fleet  which  the  king 
is  preparing  against  his  adversuries  and  rebels. 

Commission  to  Vincent  Pitelesden  to  inquire  into  the  carrying  off  of 
cables,  cords,  and  other  necessaries  from  a  ship  of  the  king's  kinsman, 
Richard  earl  of  Warwick,  called  le  Grace  Dieu^  intended  for  resistance 
against  the  king's  enemies,  and  to  arrest  and  imprison  the  offenders. 

Sept.  18.         The  like  to  Roger  Tocotes,  knight,  Henry  Longe,  John  Russell,  and 

Westminster.  John  Wytokesmede  to    inquire  what  land  Edmund  Stradlynge,   esquire, 

deceased,  held  in  the  county  of  Wilts  on  the  day  of  his  death,  who  is  his 

next  heir,  and  of  what  age,  and  who  has  occupied  the  lands  since  his  death. 


Membrane  25d. 

Sept.  5.  Commission  to  Thomas  Maunoell,  esquire,  and  John  Castell,  to  provide 

Bristol       mariners  for  a  ship  called  le  Trinite  of  Mynhede,  for  a  fleet  which  the 
king  is  preparing  against  his  adversaries  and  rebels. 

Fragment  of  an  entry  directed  to  the  king's  kinsmen  John,  duke  of 
Suffolk,  and  Henry,  earl  of  Essex,  and  John  Clynton  of  Clynton,  Richard 
Penys  of  Dacre,  William  Hastynges  of  Ha?tynges,  Humphrey  Stafford  of 
Suthwyke,  William  Herbert  of  Herbert,  John  Markham,  Robert  Danby, 
William  Yelverton,  and  Peter  Ardem,  knights,  Richard  Byngham,  Nicholas 
Ayssheton,  Robert  Danvers,  Walter  Moyle,  John  Nedeham  and  Richard 

O  2 


100 


CALENDAR  OF  PATENT  ROLLS. 


1461. 


Sept.  7. 

Bristol. 


Sept.  14. 
Oxford. 


Sept.  16. 
Oxford. 


Sept.  16. 
Bechley. 


Sept.  20. 
Westminster. 


Membrane  2M, — cont. 

Gloky  and  the  sheriffs  of  the  counties  of  Gloucester,  Hereford,  Somerseti 
Worcester,  and  Stafford,  and  the  town  of  Bristol. 

Commission  to  John  Power,  Edmund  Roo,  and  William  North  to  take 
masters  and  mariners  for  ships  called  le  Cristqfre  Dammey  le  Cristofer 
Howelly  and  la  Julian  of  Bristol,  for  the  kinji^'s  fleet. 

The  like  to  William  Gerveys,  William  Prewet  and  Richard  Dodym 
to  take  masters  and  mariners  as  above  for  ships  called  le  James^  la  Marie 
and  le  Kateryn  of  Brigi;ewater. 

Commission  to  Walter  Devereux  of  Ferrers,  and  William  Herbert  of 
Herbert,  knights,  Thomas  Herbert,  esquire  of  the  body,  and  Richard 
Herbert,  to  take  into  the  king's  hands  all  castles,  lordships,  manors,  lands 
and  possessions  late  of  Humphrey,  duke  of  Buckingham,  in  South  Wales, 
on  account  of  the  minority  of  Henry  son  and  heir  of  Humphrey  his  son 
and  heir.  By  K, 

Commission  to  the  mayor  and  bailiffs  of  Walyngford  to  arrest  John 
Button  of  Walyngford,  'hosteler,'  and  bring  him  before  the  king  in 
Ctiancery. 

Tlie  like  to  John  Pollard,  mayor  of  Plymraouth,  Henry  Pomeray, 
esquire,  John  Penfon,  esquire,  Thomas  Dukmanton,  Thomas  Maynard, 
Walter  Warrewik  and  Thomas  Ryke  to  arrest  John  Mowns,  *  bastard,'  *  hus- 
bondman,'  John  Mowns,  *  husbondman,'  John  Morys, '  marchaunt,'  Stephen 
Chapman,  'marchaunt,'  John  Auger,  'husbondman,'  Richard  Barslyn, 
•  taillour,'  Robert  Barslyn,  *  taillour,'  and  Thomas  Marty n  of  Jepstowe,  clerk, 
and  bring  them  before  the  king  in  Chancery. 

The  like  to  the  justices  of  the  peace  in  the  county  of  Buckingluim,  the 
sheriff,  and  the  mayor  of  Clepyngwycombe  to  arrest  William  Spereman, 
'  sumnour,'  and  Roger  Bent,  <  corveser,'  and  bring  them  before  the  king  in 
Chancery. 

Commission  to  Roger  Reynold,  John  Goland,  John  Braunche  and 
William  Brereton  to  take  lances,  lance-heads,  bows,  arrows,  cords  for  bows 
called  *  bowestrenges,'  cannons,  powder  and  other  habiliments  of  war  for  the 
king's  fleet. 


Dec.  5. 

Westminster. 


1462, 

Feb.  28. 
WestmiDster. 


March  1. 

Westminster. 


Mbmbranb  2\d. 

Commission  to  William  Chaworth,  knight,  Richard  Willughby  and  the 
sheriff  of  Derby  to  arrest  John  Cokayn  of  Aysshbourn,  esquire,  who  with 
others  wanders  about  various  parts  of  the  county  killing  and  spoiling  the 
king's  subjects,  and  bring  him  before  the  king  in  council. 

Commission  to  the  king's  constables  of  the  hundred  of  Plumesgate,  co. 
Suffolk,  to  set  wat^^hes  by  day  and  night  at  convenient  places  for  defence 
against  the  king's  enemies  at  sea  who  plunder  the  said  hundred  and 
especially  the  town  of  Alburgh  and  the  king's  subjects  Ihere. 

Commission  to  William  Herbert  of  Herbert,  knight,  and  Thomas 
Herbert,  one  of  the  esquires  of  the  body,  to  take  vessels  and  ships  within 
the  port  of  Bristol  and  other  ports  of  the  west  towards  Wales  and  ports  in 
Wales,  to  resist  the  king's  enemies. 


1461.  Membrane  \M. 

Dec.  4.  Commission  to  John  Trenowith,  Walter  Code  and  Thomas  Trefrye, 

Westminster,  esquires,  Thomas  Bere,  Richard  Joce,  John  Penfoun,  esquire,  and  the 

sheriff  of  Cornwall  to  arrest  John  Beauchamp  the  elder,  John  Beauchamp 

the    younger,  Thomas    Beauchamp,    James    Beauchamp    and    Pascasius 

Maunsell  and  bring  them  before  the  king  in  Chancery. 


1  EDWARD  IV.— Part  III.  lOl 


1461.  Membrane  \%d. 

Nov.  80.         Commission  to  Humphrey  Bourgchier  of  Cromwell,  William  Sktpwith 
Westmiiuter.  and  Brian    Stapulton,  knights,   Thomas  Bargh,  Thomas  Blount,    John 

Whichecote,  Thomas  Kyme,  Robert  Sheffeld  the  younger,  William 
Newecombe,  John  Tailboys  and  Richard  Hauserd  the  elder  to  urge  the 
king's  able-bodied  subjects  of  the  parts  of  Lyndesey,  co.  Lincoln,  to  go 
with  the  king  against  Henry  VI.,  Margaret  his  wife  and  his  adherents. 

Dec.  3.  Commission  to  James,  abbot  of  St.  Augustine's  by  Canterbury,  Richard, 

We«tiiiiii8ter.  prior  of  Christ  Church,  Canterbury,  William  Bigge,  mayor  of  Canterbury, 
William  Haute,  esquire,  John  Isaak,  esquire,  John  Oxenden,  and  the 
sheriff  of  Kent,  to  inquire  into  divers  alleged  trespasses,  extortions, 
oppressions,  deceptions,  and  misprisions  by  Nicholas  Aleyn,  late  of  Sturrey, 
CO.  Kent,  *  yoman.' 

Dec.  9.  Commission  to  Thomas  Bere,  Walter  Code,  William  Antron  the  younger, 

Wescniiiiflter.   William    Rosmodres,  and    William    Trewynnard,  esquires,  and  Wilfiam 

Trebreff  to  arrest  William  Carnsuyewe,  esquire,  John  Beauchamp  the  elder, 

Richard  Raynold,  Richard  Nanskylly,  John  Nanskylly,  John  Tregellest, 

and  Thomas  Trenthgaus,  and  bring  them  before  the  king  in  Chanceiy. 

Dec.  14.         The  like  to   John  Kelly,  mayor  of  Exeter,  William  Grenvell,    John 
Westminster.   Hamelyn,  and  Thomas  Blower,  to  arrest  and  imprison  certain  seditious 
vagabonds  within  the  said  city  and  the  liberty  of  the  same. 

Membrane  \^d. 

Dec.  22.         The  like  to  William  Harecourt,  John  Harpur,  Roger  Baile,  William 

Westminster.   Dore  and    Nicholas  Flaxhale,  to    arrest  Humphrey  Swynarton,  late    of 

Hilton,  CO.  Stafford,  esquire,  and  bring  him  before  the  king  in  council, 

to  answer  for  certain  falsehoods    counterfeited  by  him  contrary  to    the 

statute  in  Parliament  at  Gloucester,  2  Richard  II. 

1462.  Membrane  Sd. 

Jan.  29.  Commission  to  John  Stourton  of  Stourton,  knight,  William  Stourton, 
Westminster,  knight,  John  Neuburgh,  esquire,  Thomas  Husee,  esquire,  John  Wikes, 
William  White,  mayor  of  Pole,  John  Ewelme,  John  Spedard  and  the 
justices  of  the  peace  in  the  county  of  Dorset,  to  set  the  accustomed  watches 
at  a  place  called  ^  Wyrebarowe '  by  Pole,  for  the  safety  of  the  town  and 
the  adjacent  country  and  defence  against  the  king's  enemies  of  France  and 
Brittany.  By  K. 

Membrane  5d. 

Jan.  H.  Commission  to  John  Stourton  of   Stourton,  knight,  John  Audeley  of 

Westminster.  Audeley,  Humphrey  Stafford  of  Suthewik,  knight,  George  Darell,  John 
Hall  of  Sarum,  John  Neubergh  and  John  Caraunt  the  younger,  to  arrest 
and  imprison  Master  Simon  Whatlok,  vicar  of  Mere,  John  Daunt,  John 
Lambart,  Robert  and  Edmund  his  sons,  Thomas  Southe  and  Robert 
Whatlok,  evil-dicposed  persons,  adherents  of  Henry  VI.,  Henry  late  duke 
of  Somerset,  James  late  earl  of  Wilts,  and  Robert,  late  lord,  and  (Margaret) 
the  elder  lady  of  Hungerford,  who  are  making  divers  suspicious  con- 
gregations in  divers  places  in  the  counties  of  Somerset,  Dorset,  and  Wilts. 

ByK. 

Jan.  8.  Commission  to  William  Overey,  James  Mauthorp,  serjeant  at  arms,  and 

Westminster,  the  sheriff  of  Kent,  to  inquire  into  the  complaint  of  John  Ry  ve,  staying 

in  the  town  of  Scluco  in  Flanders,  that  certain  pirates  stole  16  quarters  of 

wheat  and  other  goods  and  merchandise,  which  certain  subjects  of  the 

king's  kinsman,  the  duke  of  Burgundy,  were  sending  in  a  ship  to  Londoii| 


102  Calbndab  op  patent  rolls. 


1462.  Membrane  bd-^cont 

while  the  ship  was  at  anchor  in  the  Thames,  contrary  to  the  trace  betWe^tl 
the  king  and  the  duke,  and  to  arrest  the  offenders  and  cause  restitution  to 
be  made. 

1461. 

Nov.  12.         Commission  to  Robert  Botell,  prior  of  St.  John  of  Jerusalem  in  England, 

Westminster.  John  Wenlok  of  Wenlok,  knight,  chief  butler  of  England,  and  Peter  Ti^r, 

dean  of  St.  Severin,  to  determine  infractions  of  the  truce  with  the  king's 

kinsman  the  duke  of  Burgundy.  By  K. 

IFoedera,'} 

1462. 

Feb.  4.  Commission  to  Humphrey  Bourghchier  of  Cromwell,  Walter  Blount  and 

Westminster.  John  Greseley,  knights,  John  Bothe,  Nicholas  Fitzherbert,  Nicholas 
Stathom,  John  Tunsted,  James  Hopwode  and  the  sheriff  of  Derby  to  arrest 
in  the  counties  of  Derby,  Nottingham  or  York  and  imprison  Richard 
Ghiitford  of  Retford,  co.  Nottingham,  and  his  abettors,  who  wander  about 
the  county  of  Derby  and  stir  up  the  king's  subjects  to  rebellion  and  have 
imprisoned  certain  of  the  king's  officers. 

The  like  to  Humphrey  Bourghchier  of  Cromwell,  Robert  Clyfton  and 
Robert  Strclley,  knights,  John  Stanhope,  Richard  Wilughby,  Thomas 
Nevill  of  Rolleston,  William  Merynges,  Thomas  Nevill  of  Southleverton 
and  the  sheriff  of  Nottingham. 

The  like  to  John  Neviie  of  Mountague,  Ralph  de  Graystok,  Thomas 
Lomley,  James  Strangweys,  Robert  Constable,  John  Conyers,  John  Melton 
and  John  Constable,  knights,  Thomas  Wytham,  John  Hastynges,  Brian 
Roclyff,  Henry  Sothehill,  Edmund  Fitzwiliiam,  William  Burgh,  Richard 
Pygot,  Nicholas  Girlyngton,  Ralph  Ayssheton,  Robert  Nevyle,  John 
Thwaytes,  Guy  Fairefax,  William  Scargill,  Percival  Grisaker,  William 
Eland,  John  Wenslagh,  John  Vavasour,  John  Haitfeld,  John  Grenefeld  and 
the  sheriff  of  York. 

1461.  Membrane  3d. 

July  20.         Commission  to  Thomas  Wake,  esquire,  Robert  Ingleton,  Walter  Mauntell^ 
Westminster,  esquire,  and  Richard  Fowler  to  enquire  into  divers  alleged  wastes,  destruc- 
tions and  trespasses  of  vert  and  sale  of  woods  within  the  king's  forest  of 
Whitylwode,  co.  Northampton. 

July  12.         Commission  to  Henry  Auger  and  Edmund  Ins  to  go  to  sea  with  a  certain 
Westminster,  number  of  men  at  arms  and  archers  for  the  safe-custody  of  the  sea  and  the 
defence  of  the  realm. 

July  8.  Commission  to  John  Gybbes,  esquire,  Oto  Gilbard,  egquire,  Henry  Norys, 

Westminster.  Thomas  Soper  and  John  Turpyn  to  arrest  John  Hore,  liate  household  servant 

of  William  Holand,  bastard,  of  Exeter,  and  certain  other  persons  who  are 

stirring  up  insurrection  and  committing  robberies,  murders  and  other  crimes 

in  the  counties  of  Cornwall  and  Devon. 

Aug.  6.  Commission  to  John  Fogge,  John  Scotte  and  William  Pecche,  knights, 

Westminster.  John  Gyldeford,  William  Haute  the  younger,  John  Dygges,  John  Oxenden 
Thomas  Seynt  Nicholas,  Robert  Martyn,  John  Daunne,  Richard  Culpeper^ 
John  Rowe  and  the  sheriff  of  Kent  to  cause  signs  called  '  bekenes '  to  be 
])laced  at  the  accustomed  places  in  the  said  county  to  warn  the  people  of  the 
approtich  of  the  king's  enemies,  and  to  set  the  accustomed  watches  and 
wards  on  the  sou  coast. 

Membrane  Id. 

July  26.         Commission  to  Nicholas  Assheton,  John    ColshuU,    knight,    Thomas 
Westminster.  Clemens  and  the  sheriff  to  enquire  into  all  treasons,  insurrections,  rebellions, 
felonies,  riots,  routs,  conventides  and  other  trespasses  within  the  county  of 
Cornwall. 


m 


1  EDWAED  IV.— Paet  IV. 


1462.  MSUBRANBS  26  AND  25. 

Feb.  3.  Itupeanmus  and  confirmation  to  Richard  Scrop,  the  warden,  or  master, 

Westminster,  and  the  scholars  of  the  King's  Hall  in  the  nniversity  of  Cambridge,  of  the 
following : — 

1.  Letters  patent  dated  7  October,  11  Edward  III.,  being  the  foundation 

of  the  college  and  the  appointment  of  Master  Thomas  Powys  as 
warden  and  grant  of  the  advowson  of  the  church  of  St.  Peter, 
Norhampton. 

2.  Letters  patent  dated  12  March,  12  Edward  III.,  being  a  grant  to 

them  in  frank  almoin  of  the  advowson  of  the  church  of  Fakenham- 
dam,  in  the  diocese  of  Norwich,  in  lieu  of  the  above  advowson, 
which  had  been  previously  granted  to  the  master,  brethren  and 
sisters  of  the  hospital  of  St.  Katharine  by  the  Tower,  London. 

3.  Letters  patent  dated  15  February,  4  Richard  II.,  being  a  grant  to 

them  in  frank  almoin  of  20/.  yearly  from  the  farm  of  the  town  of 
Scardeburgh  instead  of  from  a  farm  which  the  prior  of  Bernewell 
used  to  pay  for  the  town  of  Chesterton,  and  also  of  other  sums  as 
granted  by  letters  patent  dated  9  September,  1  Richard  IL,  and 
28  June,  2  Richard  U.,  surrendered ; 
and  grant  to  them  of  40  marks  yearly  from  the  farm  of  the  manor  of 
Cesterton  at  the  hands  of  the  canons  of  BerneweU  in  furtherance  of  a  like 
grant  from  the  farm  and  issues  of  the  city  and  county  of  London  and  the 
county  of  Middlesex  by  letters  patent  dated  9  November,  27  Henry  YL, 
for  vesture  of  cloth  and  fur ;  licence  for  the  appropriation  in  mortmain  by 
them  of  the  parish  church  of  Cesterton,  in  the  diocese  of  Ely ;  grant  in 
mortmain  to  them  of  an  acre  of  land  in  Downefeld  of  Hynton,  co.  Cam- 
bridge, two  messuages  in  the  parish  of  All  Saints  in  the  Jewry,  Cambridge, 
a  plot  of  land  adjoining  their  hall  in  Cambridge  and  an  aqueduct  there, 
which  they  had  by  letters  patent  of  Henry  VI. ;  and  grant  to  the  said 
warden  and  his  successors  of  8  marks  yearly  for  two  robes,  one  with  skin 
and  the  other  with  lining,  from  the  issues  of  the  county  of  Cambridge ; 
that  they  may  pray  for  the  good  estate  of  the  king  and  for  his  soul  after 
death,  and  the  souls  of  his  father  and  progenitors. 

By  p.s.  and  for  2  marks  paid  in  the  hanaper« 

Mbmbrane  25---con^. 

I^eb*  17.  Grant  in  fee  simple  to  William  Hastynges,  king's  knight  and  chamber* 
Westminster,  bun,  whom  the  king  lias  lately  raised  to  the  rank  of  bu'on,  for  his  good 
service  against  Henry  YL  and  Jasper,  earl  of  Pembroke,  James,  earl  of 
Wilts,  and  other  rebels,  of  the  castle,  manor  and  lordship  of  Folkyngham^ 
the  manor  and  lordship  of  Lavyngton,  the  manors  of  Sapirton  and  Awethorp^ 
the  manor  and  lordship  of  Aslakby,  the  manor  and  lordship  of  Birthorp, 
the  manor  of  Repinghide,  a  moiety  of  the  manor  of  Biker  and  the  manoi' 
and  lordship  of  Welborn,  co.  Lincoln,  the  manor  and  lordship  of  Lough* 
burgh,  and  the  manor  or  lordship  of  Shepeshede,  co.  Leicester,  the  omce 
of  forester  of  Rotland,  the  manor  of  Leyfeld,  co.  Rutland,  an  inn  called 
'  Beaumondes  Inne '  in  the  parish  of  St.  Benedict  in  the  ward  of  Baynardes- 
castell,  London,  late  of  William  Beaumoml,  knight,  late  viscount  Beaumond, 
all  the  pourparty  of  the  latter  of  the  honor  called  *  Wynchestre  Fee,'  co. 
Leicester,  and  all  his  lands  and  possessions  in  Folkyngham,  Lavyngton, 
Sapirton,  Awethorp,  Aslakbv,  Birthorp,  Repynghale,  Byker,  Welborn, 
Loughtburgh  and  Shepishede  and  in  Edmynton,  co.  Middlesexi  and  th^ 


104  CALENDAR  OF  PATENT  ROLLS. 


1462.  Membrane  25 — cont. 

manor  and  lordship  of  Asphebj  la  Zouehe,  co.  Leicester,  late  of  James, 
earl  of  Wilts,  and  all  his  lands  and  poissessions  in  that  county,  in  the  king's 
hands  by  reason  of  an  act  of  foifeiture  in  Parliament  at  Westminster, 
4  November,  with  knight's  fees,  advowsons,  wards,  marriages,  courts  leet, 
views  of  fic^k  pledge,  parks,  markets,  rivers  and  other  profits,  from 
4  [March  last ;  and  the  reversion  of  the  manors  and  lordships  of  Beaumaner, 
Whitewik,  Bochaston,  Neuton,  Hokelescote,  Donyngton  and  Markefeld 
and  the  manor  of  Ernesby,  co.  Leicester,  and  the  manor  and  lordship  of 
Hekyngton,  co.  Lincoln,  on  the  death  of  Katharine,  duchess  of  Norfolk, 
which  lately  belonged  to  the  said  William  Beaumond,  with  knights'  fees, 
advowsons,  etc. ;  and  grant  to  him  and  Katharine  his  wife,  daughter  of 
Richard,  late  earl  of  Salisbury,  and  the  heirs  male  of  his  body  of  the  manor 
and  lordship  of  Bolton  Percy,  co.  York,  and  the  manors  and  lordships  of 
Plompton,  Bercombe  and  Birlyng,  co.  Sussex,  late  of  the  said  William 
Beaumond,  and  all  his  lands  and  possessions  in  those  places,  and  the 
honour,  castle,  manor  and  lordship  of  Bevour  alias  Beauvour,  Bealvour  or 
Bellover,  with  the  park  there,  and  its  members,  viz.  WoUesthoi-p,  co. 
Lincoln,  Barkeston,  Plumgarthe,  Redmyld  and  Hardeby,  co.  Leicester, 
with  the  advowson  of  the  priory  of  Bevour  and  the  churches  of  Hardeby, 
WoUesthorp  and  Redmyld,  and  with  a  rent  called  ^  castelward '  pertaining 
to  the  castle,  and  all  rights  and  appurtenances,  the  manor  of  Bottesford, 
alias  Botelesfonl,  with  the  hamlets  of  Normanton  and  Esthorp  and  the 
advowson  of  the  church  of  Bottesford,  co.  Leicester,  and  the  manor  and 
lordship  of  Stoke  Dawebeney  with  the  hamlets  of  Wilbaston,  Sutton  and 
Assheley,  co.  Northampton,  late  of  Thomas,  late  lord  of  Roos,  and  all  his 
lands,  rents  and  services  in  Bevour,  WoUesthorp,  Barkeston,  Plumgarth, 
Redmyld,  Hardeby,  Bottesford,  Normanton,  Esthorp,  Stoke  Dawebeney, 
Wilbaston,  Sutton  and  Assheley,  in  the  king's  hands  as  above,  with 
remainder  to  the  heirs  male  of  the  body  of  the  said  Katharine  and  final 
remainder  to  his  right  heirs.  By  K. 

1461. 

Dec.  22.  Grant  to  the  king's  sister  Anne  and  the  heirs  of  her  body  by  Henry,  late 
Westminster,  duke  of  Exeter,  her  hus])and,  of  the  lordships  and  manors  of  Maynarbyere 
and  Pennaly,  co.  Pembroke,  and  the  land  and  lordship  of  Hope  and 
Hopedale  in  Wales  with  all  royal  rights,  franchises,  liberties,  cantreds, 
commotes,  mines  and  other  profits,  the  town  of  Norwich,  co.  Chester,  a 
yearly  rent  of  71.  6s.  8d.  from  the  issues  of  lands  of  Overmersshe,  co. 
Chester,  the  lordships  and  manors  of  Newton  and  Heydok,  co.  Lancaster, 
the  lordships  and  manors  of  Dalbere,  Dalbereleys  and  Wrixworth,  co. 
Derby,  the  castle,  lordships  and  manors  of  Thorpwatervile,  Achirche^ 
Alwynclc,  Ch^lveston  and  Caldecote,  co.  Northampton,  the  manors  of 
Ridlyngton,  co.  Rutland,  Stevyngton,  co.  Bedford,  Ardyngton,  co.  Berks, 
and  Great  Gaddesden,  co.  Hertford,  the  manor  of  Bereford  St.  Martin  and 
the  bailiwick  of  the  forester  in  the  forest  of  Grevele  called  *  Southbaillie/ 
CO.  Wilts,  the  manor  of  Ludford,  co.  Somerset,  the  manors  of  Bovy  Tracy, 
Northlien,  Holdesworthy,  Langacre,  the  castle,  lordship  and  manors  of 
Barnestaple,  Combemartyn,  Firmyngton,  Soutbmolton,  Dertyngton  and 
Blakcboumeboty,  the  hundreds  of  Fremyngton  and  Southmoulton,  and  the 
manor  of  Toryngton,  co.  Devon,  the  manors  of  Hasilbeare  and  Blakedon 
and  the  hundreds  of  Stone  and  Catessasche,  co.  Somerset,  the  manor  of 
Takebere,  co.  Cornwall,  the  manors  of  Flete  Damarle,  Holberton,  Thometon 
and  Wyncletracy,  co.  Devon,  and  a  hospice  called  Coldeherbui*gh  and 
Coldeherburghlane  in  the  city  of  London,  with  knights'  fees,  advowsons, 
rents,  services,  fairs,  markets,  warrens,  chases,  fisheries  and  other  profits, 
with  remainder  to  the  heirs  of  her  body ;  and  grant  to  her  and  her  heirs 
of  the  manors  of  Roucheford,  Foulenesse,  Esthall,  Southall  and  Lough 
alias  Leigh,  co.  Essex,  all  lands,  rents  and  services  with  appurtenances 
called  ^Dogettis'  and  ^Morisis'  in  Rochford,  Canwedoni  Hakwell  and 


1  EDWAIU>  IV.— Pam  IV.  105 


1461.  Membrane  25—cont. 

*  ft 

LitUe  Stanbregge,  all  lands,  rents  and  services  called  *  Waker jngis '  in 
Great  Wakerynge  and  two  inner  marshes  called  'Euggewerd'  and 
*  Tylwerd '  in  Great  Stanbregge,  co.  Essex,  with  knights'  fees,  advowsons, 
rents,  services,  fairs,  markets,  warrens,  chases,  courts  leet,  views  of  frank 
pledge,  hundreds  and  other  profits,  belonging  to  the  king  bj  the  forfeiture 
of  James,  late  earl  of  Wilts.  By  p.s. 


1462.  Mbmbrane  24. 

Feb.  16.  Grant  for  life  to  John  Douglas,  brother  of  James,  earl  of  Douglas,  of 

WestminBter.  100/.  yearly  from  Easter  last,  viz.  25/.  from  the  customs  and  subsidies  in 
the  port  of  Southampton,  30/.  from  the  farm  of  the  subsidy  and  ulnage  of 
cloth  in  the  county  of  Wilts  and  the  city  of  Salisbury  and  a  moiety  of  the 
forfeitures  of  the  cloth,  15/.  from  the  farm  of  the  town  of  Shrewsbury, 
and  30/.  from  William  Willecotes,  esquire,  and  his  heirs  from  the  40/. 
reserved  to  the  king  for  the  manor  of  Hedyngton  with  the  hundred  of 
Bolyndene  without  £e  north  gate  of  Oxford.  By  K. 

14.61. 

Dec.  20.         Appointment,  during  good  behaviour,  of  John  Hewyk  as  auditor  of  the 

Weatmiiuter.  accounts  of  all  bailifis  and  other  ministers  of  all  castles,  lordships,  manors, 

lands  and  rents  in  the  counties  of  York  and  Northumberland  and  all  other 

places  in  England  late  of  Henry  Percy,  late  earl  of  Northumberland, 

receiving  the  accustomed  fees.  By  p.s. 

1462. 

Feb.  27.  Grant  for  life  to  George,  bishop  of  Exeter,  the  king's  kinsman,  from 
Westminster.  4  March  last,  of  the  manor  of  Wottesdon  alicu  Woddesdon,  co.  Bucking- 
ham, with  the  advowsons  and  portions  of  the  church  of  Woddesdon,  and 
all  other  lands  and  possessions  late  of  Thomas  Courteney,  late  earl  of 
Devon,  belonging  to  the  manor,  in  the  king's  hands  by  reason  of  an  act 
of  forfeiture  in  Parliament  at  Westminster,  4  November,  with  knight's 
fees,  courts  leet,  views  of  frank  pledge,  franchises,  liberties,  wan-ens, 
parks,  fiurs,  markets  and  other  profits,  and  also  the  manor  of  Pynley, 
CO.  Hertford,  late  of  Robert  Whityngham,  knight,  a  rebel,  in  the  king's 
hands  as  above.  By  K. 

March  1.        The  like  to  John  Snowdon  of  the  office  of  forester  or  parker  of  the  old 

Westminster,  park  of  Whynfell,  co.  Westmoreland,  with  the  accustomed  fees  from  the 

issues  of  the  king's  manor  or  lordship  of  Whynfell.  By  p.s. 

March  1.        The  like  to  Maurice  FitxAdam,  clerk,  o(  the  office  of  second  chamber- 
Westminster,  lain  of  the  exchequer  of  Ireland,  receiving  the  accustomed  fees,  robes  and 
other  commodities,  and  also  a  yearly  rent  of  10  marks  from  the  profits  of 
the  king's  manor  of  Tassagard,  co.  Dublin,  and  from  40  acres  of  land 
called  '  le  Wjndmylfeld'  by  Rathcridane,  co.  Dublin.  By  p.s. 

1461. 

Nov.  15.  Appointment  of  John  Wenlok  of  Wenlok,  knight,  as  governor  of  the 
Westminster,  king's  kinsman  John,  duke  of  Norfolk,  during  the  minority  of  the  latter, 
with  the  government  of  all  his  castles,  manors  and  lands  and  authority  to 
appoint  and  remove  servants  and  officers.  The  said  duke  shall  stay  in  his 
own  person  and  domicile  in  such  place  as  shall  seem  expedient  to  the  said 
governor.  By  K. 

Nov.  18.         Grant  for  life  to  the  king's  servant  Matthew  Gregory  of  the  office  of  one 

Westminster,  of  the  yeomen  tailors  in  the  great  wardrobe,  receiving  the  accustomed  fees, 

with  a  livery  at  the  hands  of  the  keeper  of  the  wardrobe.  By  p.s. 

1462. 

Feb.  26.  Grant  in  fee  simple  to  John  Scot,  knight,  controller  of  the  king's  house- 

hold, of  the  reversion  of  the  castle  and  manor  of  Chilham  and  the  manors 


iOe  C3ALSNDAB  OP  PATENT  iSLOLLS. 


1402,  Jfembrane  Zi-^eoni^ 

ot  Wilderton  und  Holesshe,  oo.  Kent,  on  the  death  of  Marjory  late  the  wife 
of  John  Boos,  knight,  lord  of  Boos,  deceased,  who  holds  the  same  in  dower, 
which  belongs  to  the  king  by  reason  of  the  forfeiture  of  Thomas  Boos, 
knight,  late  lord  of  Bo^  and  an  act  of  Parliament  at  Westminster, 
4  November,  with  knights'  fees,  advowsons,  courts  leet,  views  of  frank 
pledge,  warrens,  fairs,  marketa  and  other  commodities ;  and  also  all  lands, 
rents  and  services  in  Chilham,  Godmersham,  Trewlegh,  Chartham  and 
Molesshe,  co.  Kent,  in  the  king's  hands  as  above.  By  K. 

1461. 

Nov.  25.         Grant  for  life  to  the  king's  servant  Christopher  Foumes  of  the  office  of 
WestmiiiBter.  ranger  of  the  king's. forest  of  Eyngesbere  by  Winchester  (dias  *  Westbere  * 
and  the  custody  of  his  woods  called  *  Papinholt '  and  <  Shrowenore  *  by 
the  forest,  with  wages  of  2^.  daily  from  the  issues  of  the  county  of  Southamp- 
ton, in  the  same  manner  as  John  Ejrton,  deceased.  By  pjs. 


1452.  Membrane  23. 

Feb.  20.         Pardon  to  the  provost  and  scholars  of  the  college  of  SS.  Maiy  and 

Westminster.  Nicholas,  Cambridge,  of  all   fines,  amercements,  forfeitures  and  debts  due 

from  them  to  the  king  before  1   October,  and  all  actions  before  the  same 

date.  By  K. 

Feb.  16.  Grant  for  life  to  William  Bromhill  of  the  custody  of  the  king's  forge 

WestmiiiBter.  within  his  castle  of  Wyndesore  from  the  first  day  of  the  reign,  receiving  the 

accustomed  fees  at  the  hands  of  the  constable  of  the  castle.  By  p.s. 

Jan.  25.  Grant  to  the  prior  and  convent  of  Beauvale  of  24  marks  yearly  from  the 

Westminster,  great  and  petty  customs  in  the  port  of  Eyngeston  on  Hull,  in  recomponce 
of  3  tuns  of  wine  formerly  granted  to  them  ;  and  licence  for  the  acquisition 
in  mortmain  by  them  of  lands  and  tenements,  not  held  in  chief,  to  the  value 
of  20/.  yearly.  By  p.s.,  and  for  10  marks  paid  in  the  hanaper. 

Vacated^  so  far  as  concerns  the  24  marks^  hecaiLse  the  king  granted 
other  letters  patent^  (zs  appears  in  the  fifth  year. 

Feb.  24.  Mandate  in  pursuance  to  the  collectors  of  the  said  customs. 

Westminster. 

Feb.  26.  Grant  to  Bichard  Salkeld,  esquire^  and  the  heirs  male  of  his  body  of  all 

Westminster,  lordships,  manors,  lands,  rents,  services,  meadows,  pastures  and  woods 
between  the  rivers  Derwent  and  Caldoo,  co.  Cumberland,  late  of  Henry, 
earl  of  Northumberland,  with  advowsons,  knights'  fees,  hundreds,  wapen« 
takes,  courts  leet,  views  of  frank  pledge,  warrens,  chaces  and  other  profits, 
in  the  king's  hands  by  reason  of  an  Act  of  Parliament  at  Westminster, 
4  November,  provided  that  he  answer  at  the  Exchequer  for  any  surplus  over 
200/.  yearly.  By  p.s. 

Feb.  10.  Grant  in  frank  almoin,  fVom  4  March  last,  to  John,  the  abbot,  and  the 
Westnunster.  convent  of  St.  Mary's,  Teukesbury,  co.  Gloucester,  in  the  diocese  of  Wor- 
cester, at  the  request  of  the  king's  kinsman  Richard,  earl  of  Warwick, 
great  chamberlain  of  England,  and  Anne  his  consort,  patroness  of  the  said 
monastery,  of  the  alien  priory  and  the  advowson  of  the  priory  of  Goldclyff 
in  the  marches  of  Wales,  in  the  diocese  of  Llandaff,  with  all  manors, 
knights'  fees,  advowsons,  lands,  rents,  services,  mills,  woods,  meadows, 
villeins,  wards,  marriages,  courts,  views  of  frank  pledge,  liberties  and  other 
emoluments  in  England  and  Wales,  to  celebrate  divine  service  within  the 
monastery  for  the  good  estate  of  the  king  and  the  said  earl  and  his  wife  and 
for  their  souls  after  death  and  the  souls  of  the  king's  father  Bichard,  duke 
of  York,  his  brother  Edmund,  earl  of  Butland,  his  uncle  Bichard,  earl  of 
Salisbury,  Isabel^  late  countess  of  Warwick,  and  Bichard,  late  earl  of 
Warwick.  By  K, 


1  BDWAfeD  IV.— tABT  IV.  ifyt 


146S.  Membrane  23— con^. 

Jan.  28.         Grant  for  life  to  Richard  Jeny  of  all  lands  late  of  John  Pluknet  of  the 
Westminster,   county  of  Hertford  in  the  town  of  Little  Hadham  by  Stortford,  co.  Hertford, 

not  exceeding  the  value  of  10/.  yearly,  the  said  John  having  been  outlawed 
for  treasons  against  Henry  lY. ;  the  custody  of  which  lands  was  granted 
by  letters  patent,  20  February,  32  Henry  VI.,  to  John  Syriche  for  20  years 
at  a  rent  of  4/.  2«.  yearly.  By  K. 

Feb.  11.  Appointment  for  life  of  John  Shirwode,  for  his  good  service  and  love  to 
WestmiiiBter.  the  king,  the  king's  father  and  the  king's  uncle  Bichard,  late  earl  of  Salis- 
bury, and  for  his  losses  from  that  cause  and  because  John  Bolton,  William 
Goldesborgh  and  William  Wardrop,  who  married  his  three  daughters,  have 
suffered  cruel  deaths  without  process  of  law,  as  clerk  of  the  sheriff  of  the 
county  of  York,  receiving  such  fees  as  William  Housom,  late  clerk ;  and 
grant  to  him  of  5  marks  yearly  from  the  issues  of  the  county  when  he 
shall  be  unable  to  exercise  the  office.  By  pA 

Feb.  26.  Grant  to  Thomas  Go]t,  to  whom  the  administration  of  the  goods  of  the 
Westminster,  king's  father  Bichard,  late  duke  of  York,  was  committed  by  Thomas,  arch- 
bishop of  Canterbury,  of  all  castles,  manors,  lordships,  lands,  rents  and 
services  late  of  the  said  duke  in  the  counties  of  York,  Essex  and  Dorset 
from  Easter  last,  and  700/.  yearly  from  the  customs  and  subsidies  of  wools 
and  wool-fells  in  the  following  ports  from  Michaelmas  last,  viz.  200/.  in  the 
port  of  London,  150/.  in  the  port  of  Kyngeston  on  Hull,  150/.  in  the  port 
of  Ipswich  and  200/.  in  the  port  of  Boston,  rendering  his  account  yearly 
at  the  Exchequer,  until  all  the  debts  of  the  said  duke  are  paid,  that  his  soul 
may  rise  to  Paradise.  By  .K. 

Jan.  3.  Licence,  for  20«.  paid  in  the  hanaper,  for  William  Stapilton,  knight,  to 

Westminster,  grant  the  manor  of  Kessynglond,   co.   Suffolk,  held  in  chief,   to  Brian 
StapOton,  his  brother,  and  the  heirs  of  his  body. 

Membrane  22. 

Feb.  5.  General  pardon  to  Thomas  Vaghan,  esquire.  By  K* 

Westminster. 

Feb.  4.  Grant  to  Laurence,  bishop  of  Durham,  of  the  custody,  during  minority^ 

Westminster,  of  Henry  Ogai'd,  son  and  heir  of  Andrew  Ogard,  knight,  and  all  his  lands 

and  possessions  within  the  realm,  with  the  marriage  of  the  heir,  without 

rendering  anything  to  the  king  ;  in  lieu  of  a  similar  grant  by  letters  patent 

dated  22  June,  surrendered.  By  K. 

Feb.  23.  Mandate  to  the  escbeator  in  the  counties  of  Somerset  and  Dorset  for  the 
Westminster,  restitution  of  the  temporalities  of  the  priory  of  SS.  Peter  and  Paul^ 
Montacute,  of  the  order  of  Cluny^  in  the  diocese  of  Bath  and  Wells,  void  by 
the  resignation  of  Dan  Bobert  N'ewton,  to  Bobert  Cricbe,  monk  of  the 
house,  whom  William  Howse,  third  prior,  and  the  convent  have  elected 
as  prior,  and  whose  fealty  the  king  has  ordered  to  be  taken  by  the  abbot 
of  Mochelney. 

The  like  to  the  escheators  in  the  following  counties :— - 
Southampton  and  Wilts. 
Devon. 
Cornwall. 

Gloucester  and  the  marches  of  Wales  adjacent 
Writ  de  intendendo  in  pursuance  to  the  tenants. 

Feb.  20.         Presentation  of  Thomas  Peresbrigge,  parson  of  the  parish  church  of 
Westminster.  Creke,  in  the  diocese  of  Lincoln,  to  the  parish  church  of  Great  Billyng,  in 
the  same  diocese,  on  an  exchange  of  benefices  with  Bichard  Bate. 

Feb.  23.  Grant  to  Henry  Pylkyngton,  esquire,  and  the  heirs  male  of  his  body  of  all 

Westminster,  lands,  rents,  services,  meadows,  pastures,  courts,  views  of  frank  pledge, 

leets,  suits,  waifs  and  strays  with  their  appurtenances  in  the  counties  of 


10&  CALENDAR  OF  PATENT  ROLLS. 


1462.  Membrane  22 — cant. 

York  and  Lancaster,  not  exceeding  the  value  of  40  marks  yearly,  in  the 
king's  hands  hj  reason  of  the  forfeiture  of  John  Catarall  in  Parliament  at 
Westminster,  4  November,  rendering  to  the  king  yearly  at  Easter  a  good 
javelin  with  a  good  steel  head  {taiam  honam  lanceam  cussoriam  cum  bono 
capite  calabis),  "By  p.s. 

Feb.  24.  Grant  for  life  to  Nicholas  Girlyngton,  for  his  good  service  to  the  king 

Westminster,  and  the  king's  father  Richard,  late  duke  of  York,  of  a  yearly  rent  of  20/. 
from  the  issues  of  the  king's  manor  or  lordship  of  Spofford,  co.  York. 

By  p.s. 

Mandate  in  pursuance  to  the  receivers,  farmers  or  other  occupiers  of  the 
said  manor  or  lordship. 

Jan.  2.  Grant  to  the  king's  servants  Richard  Croft  the  younger  and  Thomas 

WestmiDster.  Croft  and  the  heirs  of  their  bodies  of   all  lands  and  reversions  when  they 

fall  in  late  of  Edmund  Hampden,  knight,  in  the  counties  of  Oxford  and 

Buckingham,  to  the  value  of  50/.  yearly.  By  p.8. 

Feb.  2(K  Grant  for  life  to  Elizabeth,  late  the  wife  of  William  Bonevile,  knight,  in 

Westminster,  recompence  of  dower,  of  the  manor  of  Pokyngton,  a  messuage,  25  acres  of 
land  and  3  acres  of  meadow  in  Thornay,  6  messuages,  a  carucate  of  land,  20 
acres  of  meadow  and  40  acres  of  wood  in  Pixton,  a  messuage  in  Taunton,  4 
messuages  in  Langporp,  3  messuages  in  Glaston  and  a  messuage  and  30 
acres  of  land  in  Drayton,  cc.  Somerset,  the  manors  of  Maperton,  Stur- 
myn£tre  Marchall,  Alryngton,  Mourton  and  Berne  and  a  messuage,  50 
acres  of  land,  10  acres  of  meadow,  6  acres  of  wood  and  50^.  rent  in  Lyme, 
CO.  Dorset,  the  manors  of  Combepyne  Seton.,  Combepeyne,  Downo  Umfra- 
vile,  Chareleton,  Heade  and  Pole,  and  Northcote,  a  messuage,  100  acres  of 
land  and  10  acres  of  meadow  in  Birches,  6  messuages,  2  cottages,  2  gardens, 
100  acres  of  land,  12  acres  of  meadow  anil  40  acres  of  moor  in  Sideford,  a 
messuage  and  10  acres  of  meadow  called  *  Axmynstre  Umfravile '  in 
Axmynstre,  and  3  messuages,  140  acres  of  land,  10  a^res  of  meadow  and  20 
acres  of  wood  in  Toregge,  co.  Devon,  8  messuages,  300  acres  of  land,  12 
acres  of  meadow,  40  acres  of  moor,  40*.  rent  and  20  acres  of  wood  in 
Tregemelyn,  Penuarthe,  Noddon,  Trevasso,  Holiwode,  Milhay,  Ealquyte, 
Seynterne,  Polkevys  and  Boboletesdou  late  of  Richard  Welyngton  in  the 
county  of  Cornwall  and  the  manor  of  Great  Glen,  co.  Leicester,  late  of  her 
husband  and  in  the  king's  hands  by  reason  of  the  minority  of  his  kins- 
woman and  heiress  Cicely  daughter  of  William  son  of  his  son  William, 
with  all  issues  from  the  same  from  Michaelmas  last.  By  p.s. 

Feb.  20.         Grant  for  life  to  Richard  Bryan  of  the  office  of  the  bailiwick  and  custody 

Westminster,    of  the  king's  town  and  lordship  of  Bledelowe  and  the  woods  in  the  county 

of   Buckingham,  parcel  of  the    alien  priory    of  Okborne,  receiving  the 

accustomed  fees  from  the  issues  of  the  lordship.  .  By  p.s. 

Feb.  20.  Grant  to  William  Beaufitz  for  10  years  from  Michaelmas  last  of  the  alien 
Westminster,  priory  of  Brymesfeld,  co.  Gloucester,  the  manor  of  Blakenham,  co.  Suffolk^ 
parcel  of  the  alien  priory  of  Okeboume,  the  priory  of  St.  Helen  in  the  Isle 
of  Wight,  CO.  Southampton,  the  priory  or  manor  of  Charletou,  co.  Wilts,  all 
lands,  rents  and  services  in  Northmundam,  Compton  and  Welegh,  cos. 
Sussex  and  Southampton,  formerly  of  the  abbot  of  Lucerne  in  Normandy 
alias  Mundam  called  '  Lucern,'  the  manors  of  Povyngton,  co.  Dorset,  and 
Wedon  alias  Wedonbeke,  co.  Northampton,  parcel  of  the  alien  priory  of 
Okebourne,  the  manor  called  the  alien  priory  or  house  of  Welles  alias  the 
manor  of  Welhalle,  co.  Norfolk,  and  a  yearly  farm  of  12  marks  which  the 
priors  of  Montacute  are  bound  to  pay  to  the  king  for  an  ancient  impost 
lately  belonging  to  the  chief  house  of  the  priory  beyond  seas,  provided  that 
he  answer  at  the  Exchequer  for  any  surplus  over  1,000  marks.  By  K. 

Feb.  25.  Grant  to  John  Gerveys  of  Bury  St.  Edmunds,  co.  Suffolk,  and  the  heirs 

Westminster,  male  of  his  body  of  all  lands,  rents  and  services  in  Brendbradfeld,  Cokefeld, 


1  EDWARD  IV.~Pabt  IV.  109 


1462*  Membrane  22 — cont, 

Greftt  Whelwethnm,  Little  \Ylielweiham  and  Monkes  Bradfeld,  co.  Suffolk, 
late  of  Thomas  Roos,  knight,  lord  of  Roos,  not  exceeding  tjie  yearly  value 
of  10  marks,  in  the  king's  hands  by  his  forfeiture  and  an  act  of  Parliament 
at  Westminster,  4  November.  By  p.s. 

Jan.  20.  Grant  for  life  to  Thomas  Draper,  minstrel,  of  an  annuity  of  10  marks  at 

Westminster,  the  receipt  of  the  Exchequer,  foimerly  wanted  to  him  by  Humphrey,  late 

duke  of  Gloucester,  from  certain  of  his  lands,  now  in  the  king's  hands  by 

right  of  the  crown,  By  p.s. 

Feb.  12.         The  liko  to  Thomas  Usbum,  brother  of  the  hospital  of  St.  Leonard,  York, 

Westminster,  of  the  custody  of  the  hospital  of  St.  Nicholas  in  the  suburbs  of  York,  and 

appointment  of  him  as  master  or  warden  of  the  hospital.  By  p.8. 

Membrane  21. 

Feb.  24.  Grant  to  the  good  and  free  men  practising  the  mystery  of  barber-surgeons 
Westminster,  in  the  city  of  London  that  they  shall  form  one  body  and  perpetual  community. 
They  shall  elect  every  yeAr  two  masters  or  governors  expert  in  the  mystery 
of  surgery  for  the  supervision,  rule  and  governance  of  the  said  mystery  and 
community ;  and  shall  have  perpetual  succession,  and  power  of  acquiring 
lands  and  possessions  to  the  value  of  5  marks  yearly  and  of  suing  and  being 
sued.  They  shall  make  statutes  and  ordinances  for  the  good  government, 
supervision  and  correction  of  the  said  mysteries,  and  shall  have  the  super- 
vision, correction  and  governance  of  all  surgeons  of  the  city  practising  the 
'  mystery  of  barbers  and  all  foreign  surgeons  practising  the  mystery 
of  surgery,  and  the  supervision  of  all  instruments,  plasters  and 
medicines ;  and  no  one  shall  be  admitted  to  practise  the  mystery  of  surgery 
in  the  city  until  he  be  approved  of  by  the  masters  as  capable.  And  the  said 
niHslers  or  governors  shall  be  exempt  from  being  put  on  assizes,  juries, 
inquests,  inquisitions,  attaints  or  recognisances  within  the  city  and  suburbs, 
and  shall  enjoy  the  liberties  of  the  city.  By  p.s. 

Feb.  20.         Inspeximus  and  confirmation,  until  Christmas  next,  to  the  merchants  of 
Westminster.   Almain  of  letters  patent  dated  6  November,  1  Richard   IL,  inspecting  and 
confirming  the  following  : — 

1.  A  charter  dated  at  Windsor,  1  February,   31  Edwanl  I.  [^Charter 

Roll,  31  Edward  L  No.  44.] 

2.  A  charter  dated  at  Westminster,  14  March,  1  Edward  IIL  {^Charter 

Moll,  1  Edicard  III.  No,  75],  inspecting  and  confirming  a  charter 
dated  at  W^indsor,  7  December,  1 1  Edward  IL 

By  K.,  and  for  \  mark  paid  in  the  hanaper. 

1461^  Membrane  20. 

Dec.  15.         Graiit  to  John  Skelton,  son  of  John  Skelton  of  the  county  of  Cumberland, 
Westminster,    deceased,  and  the  heirs  male  of  his  body  of  a  parcel  of  land  containing  100 

acres  in  Armeth  way  than  k  within  the  forest  of  Ingilwode,  co.  Cumberland, 
the  king's  purpresture  called  '  Hermanthwaite  '  with  common  of  pasture  for 
his  leasts  within  the  forest  and  dead  wood  called  *  fyrewodo,'  and  the  close 
of  Touthwaite  with  common  of  pasture  within  the  forest,  rendering  yearly  to 
the  king  Ms.  Sd,  and  I6d.  increment,  with  wood  for  the  buildino^  and 
repair  of  his  houses  and  the  enclosure  of  the  land,  in  the  same  manner  as 
the  above  was  granted  to  him  for  40  years  by  letters  patent  of  Henry  VI., 
because  his  father  has  constructed  divers  houses,  buildings  and  enclosures 
thereon  at  great  expense.  By  p.8. 

Dec.  15.         Ratification  of  the  estate  which  Stephen  Morpath,  priest,  has  as  dean  or 
Wettmiofter.  warden  of  the  king*8  free  chapel  within  his  castle  of  Walyngford,  co.  Berks. 

By  p.8. 


no  CALENDAR  OP  PATENT  ROLLS. 


14b  1  •  Membrane  20— con/. 

Dec.  9.  Grant  for  life  to  the  king's  servant  George  Dale,  from  21  April  last,  of 

Westminster,  the  office  of  bailiff  of  the  king's  manor  of  Haveryng  atte  Boure,  co.  Essex, 

the  custody  of  his  warren  tSere,  and  the  custody  of  a  gate  of  his  park  of 

Haveryng  called  *  le  Suthgate/  with  the  accastomed  fees  from  the  issues  of 

the  manor  and  all  other  profits.  By  p.s. 

Dec.  17.  Grant  in  mortmain,  in  consideration  of  the  slender  endowment  of  their 
WestminBter.  church,  and  in  honour  of  the  gentle  confessor,  bishop  Richard,  whose  body 
and  relics  are  buried  there,  to  Master  John  Waynflet,  the  dean,  and  the 
chapter  of  Chichester  cathedral  of  the  alien  priory  of  Wylmyngton,  co. 
Sussex,  and  the  prebend  of  Wylmyngton  in  the  said  cathedrsJ,  lately 
belonging  to  the  abbot  of  Grestain  beyond  seas,  with  knights'  fees,  advow- 
sons,  liberties,  courts  leet,  views  of  frank  pledge,  warrens,  fisheries,  fairs, 
markets,  rents,  services,  wards,  marriages  and  otTier  appurtenances,  formerly 
granted  to  them  by  Henry  V.,  for  the  foundation  of  two  chantries  of  two 
priests  or  chaplains,  with  issues  and  profits  from  4  March  last ;  to  pray 
for  the  good  estate  of  the  king  and  Cicely  his  mother  and  for  their  souls 
after  death  and  the  souls  of  the  king's  father  Richard,  late  duke  of  York, 
and  his  progenitors,  and  his  kinsmen  Henry  Y.  and  Nicholas  Mortemer, 
whose  body  lies  in  the  cathedral.  By  p.s. 

Dec.  22.  Grant  for  life  to  Reginald  Neuton  of  the  office  of  the  bailiwick  and 

Westminster,  forestership  of  Prudhowe  alias  Proudehowe,   co.  Northumberland,  with 

the  accustomed  fees.  By  p.s. 

Sept.  23.         Grant,  during  good  behaviour,  to  James  Acton  of  the  offices  of  chief  clerk 

Westminster,  of  the  king's  chief  place  in  Ireland,  clerk  of  the  crown  in  the  said  place,  and 

keeper  of  all  rolls,  writs,  records  and  other  memoranda  in  the  same,  with  the 

accustomed  fees.  By  p.s. 

Dec.  11.  Grant  for  life  to  James  Pemberton,  groom  of  the  king's  chamber,  of  the 

Westminster,  offices  of  keeper  of  the  king's  park  and  garden  of  his  manor  of  Eltham,  co. 

Kent,  from  the  first  day  of  the  reign,  receiving  2d,  daily  for  the  custody  of 

the  park  and  the  same  for  the  custody  of  the  garden  from  the  issues  of  the 

manor.  By  p.s. 

Nov.  24.         The  like  to  John  Mody  and  Agnes  his  wife  of  an  annuity  of  6/.  from  the 
Westminster,  issues  of  the  king's  manor  of  Merston  Meysy,  co.  Wilts.  By  p.s. 

Mandat-e  in  pursuance  to  the  farmers  of  the  manor. 

Dec.  16.  Grant  to  the  king's  tenants  of  the  town  and  port  of  Weymouth,  co.  Dorset, 

Westminster,  of  100/.  at  the  hands  of  the  customers  of  the  ports  of  Pole  and  Weymouth, 

in  recompense  of  losses  sustained  by  them  for  the  king.  By  p.s. 

1462. 

Feb.  12.  Grant  for  life  to  Walter  Skull,  king's  knight,  of  40/.  yearly  from  Michael- 

Westminster,  mas  last  from  the  issues  of  the  counties  of  Caemarvan  and  Cardigan  in  South 
Wales  at  the  hands  of  the  king's  chamberlain  of  South  Wales.  By  p.s. 

Vacated  by  surrender  and  cancelled^  because  the  king  made  a  like  grant 
to  him  by  letters  patent^  9  December y  8  Edward  IV. 

Feb.  23.  Grant  to  the  king's  mother  Cicely,  duchess  of  York,  of  all  sums  of  money, 

Westminster,  issues  and  rents  pertaining  to  the  king  from  all  castles,  lordships,  manors, 
lands  and  other  possessions  specified  in  the  letters  patent  of  her  jointure  and 
dower  from  Michaelmas,  39  Henry  Vl.,  until  30  December  then  following. 

ByK. 

Membrane  19. 

Feb.  26*         Appointment,  during  pleasure,  of  John  Austyn  as  receiver  and  approver 

Westminster,   of  all  the  king's  castles,  lordships,  manors,  lands,  tenements,  fee-farms  and 

mills  in  the  counties  of  Wilts,  Oxford,  Berks,  Gloucester,  Bristol,  Worces- 


1  EDWARD  IV.— Pabt  IV.  Ill 


1462.  Membrane  lO-^con^ 

ter,  Salop  and  Hereford,  with  power  to  collect  rents  and  distrain  in  default 
and  to  eject  insolvent  tenants  and  admit  others,  receiving  the  accustomed 
fees  at  his  own  hands  from  the  issues  of  the  same.  Bj  bill  of  treasurer. 

The  like  of  the  foUowing  in  the  counties  named  : — 
John  Stourgeon  in  Bedford,  Buckingham,  Hertford,  Cambridge  and 

Huntingdon. 
William  Whelpdale  in  Norfolk,  Suffolk,  the  city  of  Norwich  and 

Essex. 
Thomas  Palmer  in  Warwick,  Leicester,  Northampton  and  Rutland, 
Thomas  Mauncell  in  Somerset,  Dorset,  Devon  and  Cornwall. 
Thomas  Blount  in  Lincoln  and  the  city  of  Lincoln. 
Richard  Waller  in  Kent,  Surrey,  Sussex,  Southampton  and  the  town 

of  Southampton. 

Feb.  2Q,         Grant  for  life  to  Oliver  Yong  of  the  office  of  under-forester  of  the  king's 

Westminster,  forest  of  Malverstang,  co.  Westmoreland,  which  Robert  Shawe  and  John 

Dent  lately  had  of  the  grant  of  John,  late  lord  Clyffbrd,  in  the  king's  hands 

by  reason  of  an  act  oi  Parliament  at  Westminster,  4  November,  receiving 

wages  of  ^m  daily  from  the  issues  of  the  king's  lordship  of  Halverstang. 

ByK. 

Feb.  28.         The  like  to  Richard  Willy,  yeoman  of  the  king's  bed,  of  the  office  of 
Westminster,   keeper  of  the  palace  called  '  Princepalace  '  at  Westminster,  receiving  such 

fees  from  6  March  last  at  the  hands  of  the  receiver  general  of  the  duchy  of 
Cornwall  as  were  allowed  to  John  Brekenok,  late  receiver,  for  Thomas 
Carre  and  Thomas  Ryngston  in  that  office ;  in  lieu  of  another  grant  to  him 
of  the  office  by  letters  patent  dated  9  July,  surrendered.  By  K. 

Feb.  24«  Grant  to  John  Donne,  esquire,  one  of  the  ushers  of  the  king's  chamber, 
Westminster,  and  the  heirs  male  of  his  body,  for  his  good  service  to  the  king's  father 
Richard,  late  duke  of  York,  in  England,  France  and  Ireland  and  against 
Henry  VI.  and  Jasper,  earl  of  Pembroke,  and  James,  earl  of  Wilts,  and 
other  rebels,  of  the  castle,  town,  manor  and  lordship  of  Telagham  in  South 
Wales  and  sdl  lands,  rents  and  possessions  in  Telogharn  with  appurtenances 
in  South  Wales  and  the  marches  late  of  the  said  earl  of  Wilts  and  in  the 
king's  hands  by  reason  of  an  act  of  forfeiture  in  Parliament  at  West- 
minster, 4  November,  with  all  roynl  rights,  franchises,  liberties,  courts, 
views  of  frank  pledge,  cantreds,  commotes,  lumdreds,  fairs,  markets,  knights' 
fees,  advowsons,  wreck  of  sea  and  other  profits,  and  the  manors  of  Russheton, 
Stanewige,  Ryngstede,  Great  Brampton  and  Great  Houghton,  co.  Nor- 
thampton, and  all  lands  and  possessions  in  Russheton,  Stanewige,  RyngBtede, 
Great  Brampton,  Great  Houghton,  Knoston,  Aldwyncle,  Barton,  Hanging 
Houghton  and  Ecton,  co.  Northampton,  late  of  Thomas  Tresham,  knight, 
in  the  king's  hands  as  above,  with  knights'  fees,  advowsons,  courts  leet, 
views  of  frank  pledge,  warrens,  fairs,  markets  and  other  profits,  with  all 
issues  from  4  March  last,  provided  that  he  answer  at  the  Exchequer  for  any 
surplus  above  100/.  yearly.  By  p.s. 

Feb.  24.  Grant  to  John  Howard,  king's  knight,  and  the  heirs  male  of  his  body  of 

Westminster,  the  manors  of  Ley  ham  and  Wherstede,  co.  Suffolk,  and  Smethton  Hall,  co. 
Essex,  late  of  James,  earl  of  Wilts,  the  manors  of  Dontissh  and  Deuelyssh, 
CO.  Dorset,  late  of  Nicholas  Latymer,  knight,  the  manor  of  Hereford,  co. 
Norfolk,  late  of  Thomas  Danyell,  late  of  Resyng,  co.  Norfolk,  esquire,  and 
the  manor  of  Meyton  Hall,  co.  Norfolit,  late  of  Giles  Seyntlowe,  late  of 
London,  esquire,  in  the  king's  hands  by  reason  of  an  act  of  forfeiture  of 
Parliament  at  Westminster,  4  November,  with  knights'  fees,  advowsons, 
views  of  frank  pledge,  liberties,  fairs,  markets,  warrens  and  other  profits, 
provided  that  he  answer  at  the  Exchequer  for  any  surplus  above  100/. 
yearly.  Byp.8. 


11»  CALENDAB  OP  PATENT  BOLLS. 


1461.  Membrane  19 — cont, 

Dec.  11.  Release  to  Bichard.  earl  of  Warwick,  John  Clay,  John  Whichcote, 
Westminster.  Bobert  Cajvell  and  John  Brereley  and  their  heirs  and  assigns  of  all  the 
right  which  the  king  has  in  4  messuages,  10  tofts,  224  acres  of  land,  40 
acres  of  meadow,  20  acres  of  pasture  and  9s.  rent  in  Welton,  Biland  bj 
Dunham,  Irby,  Burton  by  Lincoln,  Bothewell,  Worleby,  Kirnjngton,  Risnm 
and  Little  Barton,  co.  Lincoln,  of  which  Henry  Bedford,  knight,  enfeoffed 
the  above  and  the  king,  then  earl  of  March,  the  king's  father  Bichard,  dnke 
of  York,  and  Bichaid,  earl  of  Salisbury,  that  they  may  execute  his  last 
will.  ^j  p.8. 

1462. 

Feb.  5.  Protection,  with  clause  nolumus^  for  three  years,  for  John  Yonge,  citizen 

Westmioster.  and  grocer  of  London,  and  his  men  and  possessions.  By  p.s, 

Meubranb  18. 

Feb.  26.  Grant  to  Thomas  Burgh,  one  of  the  esquires  of  the  body,  and  the  heirs 
Westminster,  male  of  his  body  of  the  manors  of  Crofte,  Thorppe,  Golthawe  and 
Skelynghoup,  co.  Lincoln,  and  all  lands  and  possessions  in  those  places  late 
of  William  Tailboys,  knight,  in  the  king's  hands  by  reason  of  an  act  of 
forfeiture  in  Parliament  at  Westminster,  4  November,  with  knights'  fees, 
advowsons,  courts  leet,  views  of  frank  pledge,  parks,  w^arrens,  chaoes,  fairs, 
markets  and  all  other  profits.  Bj  p.s. 

March  3.  Revocation  of  protection  lately  granted  for  one  year  to  John  Beauford 
Westminster,  alias  Bovford  alias  Beaford  alias  Beford,  *  stokfisshmonger '  of  London,  going 
on  the  king's  service  in  the  company  of  John  Wode,  king's  esquire,  victualler 
of  the  town,  castle  and  marches  of  Calais,  on  the  safe-custody,  defence  and 
victualling  of  the  same,  on  certificate  by  the  sheriffs  of  London  that  he  has 
not  gone. 

Feb.  27.  Grant  for  life  to  the  king's  servant  Geoffrey  Ferrour  of  the  passage  and 

Westminster,   ferry  called  '  Portaythoy '  alias  '  Portaythwy '  in  North  Wales  with  the 

accustomed  fees,  in  lieu  of  a  similar  grant  to  him  of  the  office  of  keeper  of 

the  same  by  letters  patent  dated  12  January,  surrendered.  By  p.s. 

March  3.         The  like  to  Henry  Maire  of  the  office  of  keeper  or  parker  of  the  park  of 

Westminster.  Colneparke,  co.  Essex,  receiving  the  accustomed  fees  from  the  issues  of  the 

king's  lordship  there.  By  p.s. 

Jan.  20.  Grant  to  Fulk  Stafford,  esquire,  and  the  heirs  male  of  his  body  of  the 

Westminster,  manors  of  Cradeley,  Oldswynford,  Hageley,  Gannowe  and  Snodisbury, 
00.  Worcester,  and  Clent,  Mere  and  Hondesworth,  co.  Stafford,  with 
the  advowsons  of  the  churches  of  Oldswynford  and  Hondesworth  and 
Forton,  co.  Stafford,  in  the  king's  hands  by  the  forfeiture  of  James,  late 
earl  of  Wilts,  to  the  value  of  200  marks  yearly,  by  fealty.  By  p.s. 

1461. 

Nov.  10.  Appointment  of  John  Wenlok  of  Wenlok,  knight,  as  governor  of  the 
Westminster,  king's  kinsman  John,  duke  of  Norfolk,  son  and  heir  of  John,  late  duke  of 
Norfolk,  durins;  minority  ;  and  grant  to  him  for  that  time  of  all  castles, 
manors,  lordships,  lands  and  other  possessions  of  the  late  duke  for  the  sus- 
tenance of  the  heir,  with  authority  to  appoint  and  remove  servants  and 
officers.  And  the  said  heir  shall  stay  in  such  places  as  shall  seem  expedient 
to  the  governor. 

i4g2.  Membrane  17. 

Feb.  28.         Grant  for  life  to  Thomas  Banon    of  the  lordship   of  Llanllogh,  co. 

Westminster,  Kermerdyn,  in  South  Wales,  as  of  the  yearly  value  of  10/.,  without  rendering 

any  account.  By  p.s. 


I  EDWARD  IV.~Pa»t  17.  U$ 


1462.  Membrane  17 — cont, 

r  '  Feb.  27;        General  pardon  to  John  Clopton  of  Long  Melford,  c6,  Suffolk,  esquire. 
Westminster.  By  K. 

Feb.  16.  Grant  for  life  to  the  king's  servitor  William  Whelpdale  of  the  offices  of 

Westminster,  provider  of  stone- cutters,  layers,  plumbers,  labourers  and  other  necessaries 

for  the  king's  works  within  his  palace  of  Westminster  and  Tower  of  London, 

receiving  the  accustomed  fees  at  the  receipt  of  the  Exchequer.  By  p.8. 

Feb.  2k).-  The  like  to   Edmund   Shaa,   citizen   and  goldsmith  of  Londori,  frcm 

Westminster.  4  March  last,  of  the  office  of  sculptor  of  the  king's  dies  (ferris)  for 
moneys  and  coinage  of  gold  and  silver  to  be  coined  within  the  Tower  of 
Loudon  and  England  and  the  town  of  Calais,  receiving  the  accustomed  fees 
at  the  hands  of  the  keeper  of  the  exchange  and  mint,  with  all  other  accus- 
tomed profits.  By  p.s. 

Feb.  24.  The  like  to  Laurence,  bishop  of  Durham,  from  4  March  last,  of  the  priory 

Westminster,  or  manor  of  Totyngbeke,  co.  Surrey,  parcel  of  the  priory  of  Okeburn,  with 

the  advowson  of  the  church  of  Stretham,  co.  Surrey.     [FcederaJ]       By  K. 

Jan.  5.  Grant  in  frank  almoin   to  the   prior  and  convent  of  Christ  Church, 

Westminster.  Canterbury,  of  a  plot  or  quantity  of  land  called  *  Hosand'  within  the  juris- 
diction of  the  port  of  Sandwich,  co.  Kent,  of  which  their  predecessors  were 
seised  in  their  demesne  as  of  fee,  with  all  liberties  and  franchises,  that  they 
may  pray  for  the  good  estate  of  the  king  und  for  his  soul  after  death  and 
the  souls  of  his  father  Bichard,  duke  of  York,  and  his  progenitors.  The 
said  plot  was  submerged  by  the  sea  in  the  time  of  Henry  III.  so  that  no 
profit  could  be  made  of  it  until  the  time  of  Edward  III.  when  the  sea 
receded  and  it  was  raised  and  grew  into  dry  land  and  became  a  pasture, 
and  wiis  taken  into  the  king's  hands,  where  it  still  remains.  By  K. 

Feb.  6.  Grant  to  John  Pylkyngton,  one  of  the  esquires  of  the  body,  and  the  heirs 

Westminster,  male  of  his  body  of  the  reversion  of  the  third  part  of  the  manor  of 
Thorneton  in  Craven,  co.  York,  and  the  manor  of  Lynton  on  Owse, 
CO.  York,  on  the  death  of  Marjory  late  the  wife  of  John  Eoos, 
knight,  lord  of  Boos,  belonging  to  the  king  by  reason  of  his  forfeiture 
and  by  authority  of  the  Parliament  held  at  Westminster,  4  November,  the 
reversion  of  the  remaining  two  parts  of  the  said  manor  of  Thorneton  on 
the  death  of  Eleanor,  duchess  of  Somerset,  belonging  to  the  king  as  above, 
and  the  reversion  of  the  manors  of  Grymesthorp,  Aylesthorp  and  Sevthorp, 
CO.  Lincoln,  on  the  death  of  Katharine,  duchess  of  Norfolk,  belonging  to 
the  king  by  the  forfeiture  of  William,  late  viscoimt  Beauniond,  and  all  lands, 
rents  and  services  with  knights'  fees,  advowsons  and  other  hereditaments  in 
those  places  belonging  to  the  king  as  above ;  and  also  of  the  manors  of 
Turnehamliall  and  Malteby,  co.  York,  and  Hole  alias  Hoell,  co.  Lincoln, 
with  knii^hts'  fees  and  other  hereditaments,  belonging  to  the  king  by 
reason  of  the  forfeitures  of  Thomas,  late  lord  of  Boos,  John,  late  lord  of 
Clyffbrd,  and  Thomas  Claymond,  esquire,  respectively.  By  p.s. 

Vacated  because  otherwise  in  this  year  in  the  sixth  {fifth)  part. 


Membrane  16. 

Jan.  28.  Grant  to  Robert,  lord  Ogle,  and  the  heirs  male  of  his  body  of  the  lord- 

Westmin&ter.  ship  of  Redisdale  and  the  castle  of  Herebotell,  co.  Northumberland,  with 
all  royal  franchises,  liberties,  lands,  rents.  ser\'ices,  escheats,  advowsons, 
courts,  views  of  frank-pledge  and  other  appurtenances,  not  exceeding  the 
value  of  66/.  13*.  4«/.  yearly,  late  of  William  Tailboys,  knight,  and  in  the 
king's  hands  by  reason  of  his  forfeiture  and  an  act  in  Parliament  at 
"Westminster,  4  November;  the  town  of  Elington  in  the  same  county, 
not  exceeding  the  yearly  value  of  20/.,  in  the  king's  hands  by  the  forfeituj*e 
of  Leo,  lord  of  Wellif ,  deceased ;  8/.  yearly  rent  from  the  town  of  Beueley, 

u    86914.  H 


114  "^  .         OALBNBAR  OP  PATENT  BOLLS, 


X462*  Membrane  16— cw*. 

and  the  towoB  of  Siulbotell,  Benyngton,  Gysyns  and  Middelton  in  thd 
pame  county,  not  exceeding  the  yearly  value  of  44/.,  late  of  Henry, 
earl  of  Northumberland,  great«'grandfatber  of  Henry,  late  earl,  deoeased, 
and  in  the  king's  hands  by  reason  of  his  forfeiture ;  and  all  lands,  rents 
and  services  within  the  lordship  of  Tyudale  in  the  same  county  called 
<  Talbotes  Landes,'  late  of  the  said  late  earl  and  in  the  king's  hands  by 
reason  of  his  forfeiture,  not  exceeding  the  value  of  10/.  yearly  ]  with  all 
issues  from  4  November  last.  By  p.8« 

Jan.  23.  Grant  to  the  king's  servant  David  Gogh,  esquire,  and  the  heirs  male 
Westminster,  of  his  body  of  the  castle,  town,  lordship  and  manor  of  Stepnlton,  late  of 
Thomas  Comewaile,  esquire,  in  the  parts  called  'Lughameys'  in  the 
marches  of  Wales,  in  the  king's  hands  by  reason  of  his  forfeiture  and  an 
act  of  Parliament  at  Westminster,  4  November,  with  all  royal  rights  and 
franchises,  liberties,  courts,  views  of  frank-pledge,  hundreds,  fairs,  markets, 
parks,  stews,  warrens,  knights'  fees,  advowsons  and  other  emoluments,  with 
all  issues  from  4  March  last.  By  p.s. 

Peb.  3.  Grant  to  William  Herbert,  king's  knight,  lately  raised  to  the  estate  of 

Westminster,  baron,  and  the  heirs  of  his  body,  for  his  good  service  against  Henry  VI. 
Henry,  duke  of  Exeter,  Jaspar,  earl  of  Pembroke,  James,  earl  of  Wilts^ 
and  other  rebels,  of  the  castle,  town  and  lordship  of  Pembroke,  the 
hundred  and  lordship  of  Castelmartyn,  the  lordship  of  St.  Florence,  the 
lordship  and  forest  of  Coydrath,  the  castle,  lordship  and  town  of  Teneby, 
the  lordship  and  bailiwick  of  Westpembroke  and  Estpembroke,  the 
bailiwick  of  Dongledy,  Eons  and  Kemeys,  a  moiety  of  the  passage  of 
Burton,  the  castle,  town  and  lordship  of  GilgarraD,  the  lordships  and 
manors  of  Emlyn,  Meinordyve,  Diffymbriam,  the  forest  of  Kevendryn, 
the  castle,  lordship  and  town  of  Lanstephan,  the  lordship  and  manor  of 
Penryn  and  la  Verie  with  the  lordships  and  manors  of  Osterlowe,  Trayne 
Clynton  and  St.  Clear,  the  lordships  and  manors  of  Magoure  and  Redwyke, 
the  castle,  manor,  town  and  lordship  of  Caldecote  with  appurtenances  in 
South  Wales  and  the  marches,  the  castle  and  manor  of  Goderiche  and  the 
lordship  and  manor  of  Urchinfeld  with  appurtenances  in  the  march  of 
Wales  and  the  county  of  Hereford,  and  the  manor  and  lordship  of 
Walwencscastell  in  South  Wales,  late  of  James,  earl  of  Wilts,  and  in  the 
king's  hand  by  reason  of  an  act  of  forfeiture  in  Parliament  at  Westminster, 

4  November,  with  all  royal  rights,  franchises,  liberties,  courts,  counties, 
hamlets,  views  of  frank-pledge,  cantreds,  commotes,  hundreds,  fairs, 
markets,  parks,  wnrrens,  knights'  fees,  advowsons,  wreck  of  sea  and  other 
profits,  with  all  issues  from  4  March  last.  By  K. 

Feb.  10.  General  pardon  to  Nicholas  Rygby,  late  of  Kyngeston  on  Thames,  co. 

Westminster.  Surrey,  <  yomac,'  alias  Rigbe,  alias  Rigby,  late  of  London,  of  all  offences 

committed  by  him  before  4  November,  and  all  fines  due  from  him  before 

5  March  last.  By  p.s. 

Feb.  12.  Grant  to  William  Herbert,  king's  knight,  for  1,000/.  iu  hand  paid,  of 

Westminster,  the  custody  and  marriage  of  Henry  son  and  heir  of  Edmund,  earl  of 

Richemond,  tenant  in  chief  of  Henry  VI.,  in  the  king's  hands  by  reason 

of  his  minority.  By  p.s. 

Feb.  15.  Grant  for  life  to  John  Cledon,  yeoman  of  the  king's  cellar  pro  ore  nostroj 

Westminster,  from  Michaelmas  last,  of  a  yearly  impost  of  lOO*.  which  the  prior  and  convent 

of  Weulok  used  to  pay  to  the  chapter  of  their  house  beyond  seas.       By  p.s. 

Membrane  16. 

Jan.  20.  Appointment  of  Philip  Herveys,  master  of  the  king's  ordnance,  John 

AVcstminster.   Gye  and  William  Tempy  11  to  take  carpenters  called  *  whelers  *  and  *cart.- 

wrightes'  and  others,  stonecutters,  smiths,  plumbers  and  other  workmen 


I  EDWARD  IV.— Pabt  IV,  US 


I4i62«  Membrane  15 — cont. 

for  the  works  of  the  ordnance,  and  also  bombards,  cannons,  '  culverynes,' 
*  fowelers,'  '  serpentynes '  and  other  cannon  and  powder,  sulphur,  saltpetre, 
stones,  iron,  lead  and  other  equipment  for  them,  crossbows  and  bolts 
for  them,  bows,  arrows,  *  bowestrengis,'  *  langedebeves,'  lances,  *  gley ves ' 
and  hammers,  and  carriage  for  the  same  and  horses  called  '  hakeneis.' 

Jan.  17.  Belease  to  William  Femberton,  the  mayor,  and  the  citizens  of  Lincoln, 

Westmioster.  on  account  of  their  impoverishment  through  the  payment  of  180/.  for  the 
fee  farm  of  the  city  and  through  the  removal  of  the  staple  thence  to 
Boston  and  other  losses,  of  100/.  yearly  which  Thomas  de  Boos,  knight, 
and  his  ancestors  received  from  the  said  fee  farm  of  the  grant  of 
Edward  11.^  in  the  king's  hands  by  reason  of  an  act  in  Parliament  at 
Westminster,  4  ITovember ;  and  grant  to  them  of  all  lands  and  possessions 
in  Ingham  and  Cotes  by  Ingham,  co.  Lincoln,  which  Edward  Burton,  late 
mayor,  and  the  citizens  acquired  from  John  Helwell,  late  of  Gunby,  co. 
Lincoln,  esquire,  and  which  William  Tailboys,  late  of  Kyme,  co.  Lincoln, 
esquire,  lately  entered  into  and  expelled  them  from,  now  in  the  king's 
hands  by  the  act  aforesaid.  By  p.s. 

Feb.  6.  Grant  to  Richard  Suthwell,  during  the  minority  of  the  son  and  heir  of 

Westminster,  the  king's  kinsman  John,  late  duke  of  Norfolk  and  marshal  of  England,  of 
the  office  of  marshal  in  the  Exchequer,  with  the  accustomed  fees. 

Feb.  8.  Appointment  of  Laurence,  bishop   of  Durham,  the  king's  kinsman  John, 

Westminster,   earl  of  Worcester,  Robert  Botell,  prior  of  St.  John  of  Jerusalem  in  England, 

John  Wenlok  of  Wenlok,  knight,  and  Master  Robert  Stillington,  doctor  of 

laws,  keeper  of  the  privy  seal,  as  ambassadors  to  treat  with  the  king's 

kinsman  John  de  He,  earl  of  Rosse  and  lord  of  the  Isles,  [Foedera.^ 

Feb.  6.  Appointment  of  William  Helperby   to  the  custody  of  all  lands  late  of 

Westminster.  William  Pawlyn  in  the  county  of  York,  tenant  in  chief  of  Henry  VI., 

during  the  minority  of  Robert  Pawlyn  his  son  and  heir,  with  the  marriage 

of  the  latter,  and  so  from  heir  to  heir.  By  p.s. 

1461. 

Dec.  15.         Grant  for  life  to  William  Kene,  esquire,  of  the  office  and  custody  of  the 

Westminster,   park  of  Cory  Malet,  co.  Somerset,  from  4  March  last,  with  the  accuistomed 

fees  from  the  issues  of  the  king's  lordship  of  Stoke  under  Hampden  in  the 

same  county.  By  p.s, 

1462. 

Feb.  15.  The  like  to  Hugh  Amory  of  a  house  in  the  parish  of  All  Hallows, 

Westminster.  Watlyngstrete,  London,  lately  in  the  hands  of  John  Kexby. 

Feb.  15.  Exemption   for    life    of    Henry   Brounflet,   knight,  lord  Vessy,   from 

Westminster,  attendance  at  Parliaments  or  councils.  By  K. 

Feb.  16.  Grant  for  life  to   John  Dou«;las,  brother  of  James,  earl  of  Douglas,  of 

Westminster.  100/.  yearly  from  Easter  last,  viz.,  25/.  from  the  customs  and  subsidies  in 
the  port  of  Southampton,  30/.  from  the  farm  of  the  subsidy  and  ulnage  of 
cloths  in  the  county  of  Wilts  and  the  city  of  Salisbury  and  a  moiety  of  the 
forfeitures  of  the  cloth,  and  30/.  from  William  Willecotes,  esquire,  and  his 
heirs  from  the  40/.  reserved  to  the  king  for  the  manor  of  Hedyngton 
with  the  hundred  of  Bolyndene  without  the  north  gate  of  Oxford.  By  K. 
V<icated  because  otherwise  below* 

Feb.  6.  The  like  to  Joan  Bere,  late  the  wife  of  John  Bere,  of  an  annuity  of  10/. 

Westminster,  from  the  issues  oC  the  town  of  Lesbury,  co.  Northumberland.  By  p.s. 

Membrane  14. 

Feb.  1.  Grant  to  tlie  king's  servitor  William  Stanley,  knight,  and  the  heirs  male 

Westminster,   of  his  body  of  the  castle,  manor  and  lordship  of  Skypton  in  Craven,  co. 

York,  with  all  towns,  hamlets,  lands,  rents,  services,  reversions,  advowsons, 

u  2 


116  CALEKDAE  OF  ?ATENT  BOLLS. 


1 

1462.  Membrane  14 — cont.  ' 

fees,  offices,  franchises,  mines  of  coal  and  lead,  and  other  possessions  latelr 
belonging  to  John,  late  lord  Clifford,  on  29  March  and  in  the  king's 
hands  by  reason  of  an  act  of  forfeiture  in  Parliament  at  Westminster, 
4  November.  By  p.s. 

Feb.  16.  Grant  to  Roger  Thorneton  of  Witton,  co.   Northumberland,  esquire,  of 

Westminator.   the  manor  of  Neweham  by  Bamburgh  in  the  said  county,  of  the  value  of 

20  marks  yearly,  on  proof  that  his  father  was  seised  thereof  until  Henry, 

earl  of  Northumberland,  unjustly  expelled  him,  which  the  son  of  the  latter, 

late  earl  of  Northumberland,  afterwards  held.  liy  p.s. 

Feb.  20.  Grant  to  Humphrey  Stafford,  king's  knight,  and  the  heirs  male  of  his 

Westminster,  body  of  the  manor  and  borough  of  Ty  verton,  the  hundred  of  Tyverton  with 
the  advowsons  of  three  portions  with  cure  in  the  church  of  Tyverton,  the 
castles,  lordships,  manors,  boroughs  and  hundreds  of  Plympton  and  Oke- 
hampton,  the  manor  and  borough  of  Chalvelegh,  the  manors  of  Colcombe, 
Coly ton,  Musbury,  Colyford,  Whytford  and  Sampford  Courtenay,  co,  Devon, 
and  all  lands  in  those  places,  with  knights'  fees,  advowsons,  franchises, 
liberties,  hundreds,  courts  leet,  views  of  frank-pledge,  fairs,  markets,  wreck 
of  sea,  chattels  of  fugitives  and  felons  and  all  other  profits,  in  the  king's 
hands  by  reason  of  an  act  of  Parliament  at  Westminster,  4  November,  and 
all  issues  of  the  same  from  15  December  last.  By  K. 

Jan.  21.  Qeneral  pardon  to  John  GrevOe,  esquire,  late  sheriff  of  Gloucester,  of  all 

Westminster,  offences  committed  by  him,  all  escapes  of  prisoners,  and  all  fines  due  jfrom 

him  before  1 8  February.  By  p.s, 

Feb.  17.  Grant  to  the  king's  servant  Thomas  Colt  and  the  heirs  male  of  his 

Westminster,  body,  for  his  good  service  to  the  king  and  the  king's  father  Eichard, 
duke  of  York,  of  the  manor  or  lordship  of  Chyngford,  co.  Essex,  and  the 
manor  of  Aketon,  co.  Suffolk,  occupied  by  Thomas  Boos,  knight,  and 
James,  late  earl  of  Wilts,  respectively,  as  their  right  and  inheritance,  and 
the  reversion  of  the  manoi's  or  lordships  of  Parkehalle,  Hemnales  and 
Madelez,  co.  Essex,  on  the  death  of  Margaret,  duchess  of  Somerset,  late  the 
wife  of  Leo,  lord  of  Wellys,  with  knights'  fees  and  advowsons,  in  the  king's 
band  by  virtue  of  an  act  in  Fai'liament,  4  November ;  and  grant  to  him  for 
the  life  of  the  duchess  of  a  yearly  rent  of  33/.  6s,  Sd,  from  the  manor 
or  lordship  of  Wellys,  co.  Lincoln.  By  p.s. 

Feb.  20.  Grant  for  life  to  John  Conyers,  knight,  of  the  offices  of  steward  and 

Westminster,  master  forester  of  the  lordships  and  manors  of  Topclif,  Cletop  with 
Biblcsdale,  and  Lettendale,  the '  manor  of  Bukden  with  Langstroth,  the 
lordship  with  the  court  of  Gisburn  in  Craven,  and  the  manor  of  Sterbotell 
with  the  court,  co.  York,  with  all  members,  sokes  and  appurtenances  late 
of  Henry,  earl  of  Northumberland,  deceased,  and  the  accustomed  fees  from 
the  issues  of  the  same.  .  By  K, 

The  like  to  John  Walleworth  of  the  office  of  bailiff  of  the  -manor  and 
lordship  of  Topcliff,  co.  Tork,  receiving  the  accustomed  fees  from  the 
issues  of  the  same.  By  K, 

Membrane  13. 

Feb.  16.  Grant  in  frank  almoin  to  Master  John  Pereson,  the  warden,  and  the 

Westminster,  chaplains  and  brethren  of  the  hospital  of  St.  Julian  called  the  *  House  of 
God,'  in  the  town  of  Southampton,  of  the  alien  priory  of  Shirburn,  co. 
Southampton,  with  all  its  appurtenances,  that  they  may  pray  for  the  good 
estate  of  the  king  and  his  successors  and  for  their  souls  after  death  and 
the  souls  of  his  father,  late  duke  of  York,  and  his  grandfather  Richard, 
late  earl  of  Cambridge,  who  is  buried  in  the  hospital.  By  K. 

Feb.  14.         Grant  for  life  to  James,  earl  of  Douglas,  of  500/.  yearly  from  Michaelmas 
Westminster,  last,  viz.  60/.  from  the  custom  and  subsidy  of  woob,  bides  and  wool-fells 


1  fiDWARD  IV.-PAttT  IV.  117' 


1462.  Membrane  13 — cont, 

in  the  port  of  London,  100/.  from  the  custom  and  subsidy  in  the  port 
of  Southampton,  60/.  from  the  like  in  the  port  of  Boston,  40/.  from  the 
like  in  the  port  of  Ipswich,  30/.  from  the  like  in  the  port  of  Lenne,  20/. 
from  -  the  like  in  the  port  of  Pole,  40/.  from  the  issues  of  the  counties  of 
Nottingham  and  Derby,  40/.  from  the  issues  of  the  county  of  Lincoln, 
40/.  from  the  issues  of  the  counties  of  Norfolk  and  Suffolk,  20/.  from  the 
issues  of  the  county  of  Stafford,  30/.  from  the  issues  of  the  counties  of  WarwicJc 
and  Leicester,  and  20/.  from  the  issues  of  the  county  of  Devon.  By  K. 

Feb.  10.  Grant  to  the  king's  servitor  James  Hyett  and  the  heirs  male  of  his  body, 
Westmiiiflter.  of  the  manor  of  FritesweU,  co.  Oxford,  and  the  advowsons,  knight's  fees, 
liberties  and  privileges  belonging  to  it,  in  the  king's  hands  by  reason  of 
the  forfeiture  of  Henry  Beauford,  late  duke  of  Somerset,  and  James  Ormond, 
late  earl  of  Wilts,  and  the  manor  or  lordship  of  Edyngworth  in  Le  Mersshe 
called  *  Brenlmerssh,'  co  Somerset,  with  a  messuage  in  Welles  and 
advowsons,  knights'  fees,  liberties  and  privileges  belonging  to  the  manor, 
with  the  members  and  parcels  of  the  manor,  and  a  messuage,  4  tofts,  20  acres 
of  land  and  5  acres  of  meadow  in  Bathernaston,  co.  Somerset,  in  the  king's 
hands  by  reason  of  the  forfeiture  of  John  Botillier,  'gentilman,'  and  Baldwin 
Fiilford,  knight,  not  exceeding  the  value  of  27/.  yearly.  By  p.s. 

Feb.  3.  Grant  for  life  to  James  Grene,  clerk  of  the  king's  kitchen,  for  his  good 

■  Westminster,   service  to  the  king  and  his  father  and  because  of  his  old  age  and  infirmity, 

of  a  pension  of  10  marks  yearly  and  a  coat  of  the  livery  of  the  household, 
or  money  to  the  same  value  at  the  hands  of  the  treasurer  of  the  household. 
And  his  name  shall  remain  on  the  roll  of  the  Exchequer  as  one  of  the 
household.  By  p.s. 

Jan.  25.  Grant  to  Boland  Fitz  Eustace,  knight,  William  Griffith  and  James 
Westminster.  Dokeray,  and  the  heirs  male  of  their  bodies,  for  their  good  service  to  the 
king's  father  and  the  king  in  England  and  Ireland,  of  the  manors  and 
lordships  of  Donboyng  and  Moyemet,  co.  Meath,  late  of  William  Boteler^ 
esquire,  with  all  messuages,  lands,  rents  and  services  in  Tyrrelleston, 
Jordaneston,  leez  Rothanes^  Nyver,  Thomon,  Hogeston,  Colcote,  Luske, 
Gailaghton  by  Ballibaghill,  Balsoun,  Kiddagheston,  Knok,  Baillibarrok, 
Lussianeston,  Oarrones,  Craneleston,  Cruyston,  and  3  acres  of  meadow  in 
Corragh  Mede,  cos.  Dublin,  Kildare,  Meath  and  Uriel,  in  Ireland,  late  of 
Richard  Bermyngham,  esquire,  forfeited  to  the  king  and  of  the  value  of 
94/.  7«.  Bd.  yearly.  By  p.s. 

Feb.  6.  Grant  for  life  to  Joan  late  the  wife  of  Bobeit  Maners,  esquire,  of  an 

.  Westminster,   annuity  of  13/.  6*.  8c/.  from  the  revenues  of  the  manors  of  Tuggell  and 

Tuggelhall,  co.  Northumberland,  in  the  king's  hands  by  the  forfeiture  of 
the  late  earl  of  Northumberland.  By  p^St 

Fob.  7.  Grant  to  John  Fowler,  one  of  the  clerks  of  the  chapel  within  the  king's 

Westminster,  household,  of  a  yearly  pension  of  10  marks,  lately  granted  by  Henry  VI. 
to  the  proctor  and  scholars  of  the  house  or  college  called  *  Goddishouse '  in 
the  university  of  Cambridge,  which  the  abbot  of  Sawtre  alias  Sautre 
used  to  pay  with  50  marks  Tor  the  churches  of  Fulborn  alia^  Foulbourne 
and  Honyngham  alias  Honyngton  to  the  alien  abbot  of  Bon.Bepos  {de 
Botia  liequie),  from  the  first  d^y  of  the  reign  until  he  shall  have  another 
recompense  to  the  same  value. 

1461. 

March  10.       Grant  for  life  to  James  Hyet  of  the  office  of  constable  of  the  king's 

Westminster,  castle  of  St.   Briavel  in   the 'forest  of  Dene,  co.  Gloucester,  with  the 

accustomed  fees.  By  K» 

Membrane  12. 

Dec.  9.  Grant  for  life  to  the  king's  servant  George  Dale,  from  21  April  last,  of 

Westminster,  the  office  of  the  custody  of  the  manor,  otherwiaa  called  the  office  of  bailiff 


tl8  CALENDAR  OP  PATENT  ROLtS, 


14gl.  Membrane  12— co»^ 

of  the  king's  maDOr  of  Haveryng  atte  Boure,  co.  Essex,  the  custody  of  his 
warren  there,  and  the  custody  of  a  gate  of  his  park  of  Haveryng  called 
'  le  Suthgate,'  with  the  accustomed  foes  from  the  issues  of  the  manor  and 
all  other  profits.  By  p.8. 

1462. 

Feb.  6.  The  like  to  the  king's  servitor  John  Langley,  esquire,  for  his  good 

Westminster,  service  to  the  king's  father  and  the  king,  of  the  custody  of  the  king's  park 
of  Chiltern  Langfey,  co.  Hertford,  and  the  houses  of  his  manor  of  Chiftern 
Langiey,  and  the  office  of  under-parker  of  his  park  of  Langley  called  *  Chiltern 
Langley,'  receiving  fees  as  in  the  times  of  Edward  III.  and  Richard  II. 
from  the  issues  of  the  manor,  in  lieu  of  a  grant  of  the  same  to  William 
Staveley  by  letters  patent,  surrendered.  By  K. 

Feb.  4.  Grant  for  life  to  the  king's  servant  Richard  Fowler  of  the  office  of  steward 

Westminster,  of  the  manors  of  Alesbury  and  Neuporfc  Paynell,  co.  Buckingham,  and  of  all 
manors,  lands,  courts  and  views  of  frank-pledge  in  the  same  county,  late  of 
James,  earl  of  Wilts,  and  in  the  king's  hands  by  reason  of  an  act  of 
forfeiture  in  Parliament  at  Westminster,  4  November,  receiving  the  accus- 
tomed fees  from  the  issues  of  the  same  from  Michaelmas  last.  By  p.s. 

The  like  to  the  said  Richard  of  the  office  of  steward  of  the  manors  of 
Wottesdon  and  Hillesdon,  co.  Buckingham,  and  Sutton  Courteney,  co. 
Berks,  and  all  lands,  courts  and  views  of  frank-pledge  in  those  counties  late 
of  Thomas  Courteney,  late  earl,  and  in  the  king^s  hands  as  above,  receiving 
fees  as  above.  By  p.s. 

Feb.  6.  The  like  to  William  Helperby  of  an  annuity  of  41,  from  the  king's  tenants 

Westminster,   within  his  forest  of  Galtresse,  co.  York,  at  the  hands  of  the  *  bounders '  of  the 

forest  on  the  feast  of  St.  Peter  ad  Vincula  at  the  cross  in  the  horse  market 

within  the  city  of  York.  By  p.8. 

Jan.  20.         The  like  to  William  Fenys  of  Say,  knight,  of  the  custody  of  the  king's 
Westminster,   castle  and  town  of  Porchestre  and  his  forest  and  warren  there,  with  power 
of  appointing  under  him  a  porter,  an  artillery  and  a  watchman  within 
the  castle,  receiving  the  accustomed  wages  from  the  issues  of  the  county  of 
Southampton,  with  all  other  profits.  By  p.s. 

Vacated  by  surrender  and  cancelled^  because  the  king  granted  the  sanie 
to  his  kinsman  John^  earl  of  Worcester^  by  other  letters  patent,  28  August^ 
2  Edward  IV. 

Jan.  7.  Grant  in  frank  almoin  to  Simon  Thomham,  the  warden,  and  the  fellows 

Westminster,  and  scholars  of  the  hall  of  Holy  Trinity,  Cambridge,  of  the  hospital  of  St. 

Margaret  by  Huntyngdon  with  all  lands,  rents,  services,  courts  and  other 

appurtenances.  By  K. 

Feb.  8.  Grant  for  life  to  Robert  Maners^  for  his  good  service  to  the  king  and  the 

Westminster,  king's  father,  of  an  annuity  of  20  marks  from  the  issues  of  the  manors  of 

Locre,  Newham,  Newstede,  Shenhow  and  Elyngeham,  co.  Northumberland, 

in  the  king's  hands  by  reason  of  the  forfeiture  of  Henry,  late  earl  of 

Northumberland.  By  p.s» 

Jan.  31.  Grant  to  the  king's  kinswoman  Katharine  late  the  wife  of  William  lord 
Westminster,  of  Harryngton,  of  the  custody  of  all  castles,  lordships,  manors,  lands,  rents^ 
services,  knights' fees  and  other  hereditaments  and  advowsons  of  William 
Bonvile,  knight,  late  lord  Bonvile,  called  William,  lord  Harrington,  during 
the  minority  of  Cicely  daughter  and  heir  of  the  said  lord  of  Harryngton  and 
kinswoman  and  heir  of  the  said  William  lord  Bonvile,  with  the  marriage 
of  the  said  heir,  and  so  from  heir  to  heir.  By  p.8. 

Feb.  18.  Grant  for  life  to  William  Haryngton,  esquire,  of  the  herbage  of  all  the 

Westminster,  enclosures  of  Qwynfell  otherwise  called  the  parks  of  Qwynfell,  co.  West- 
moreland, of  the  yearly  value  of  12/.,  in  the  king's  hands  by  reason  of  the 
rebellion  of  John,  late  lord  of  Clifford.  By  p.s^ 


I  EDVI^Aftb  IV.— tABT  IV,  119 


1462.  Membrane  12— con/. 

Feb.  20.         Grdnt  to  the  king's  kinsman  William,  earl  of  Kent,  that  he  may  buy  20 

Westminster,   lasts  of  hides  in  England  and  shijJ  them  for  foreign  parts  in  any  port  in  the 

realm  after  having  paid  the  customs  due  to  the  king,  quit  of  the  subsidies 

due  to  the  king.  By  p.s. 

Feb.  18.         Grant  for  life  to  Bartilot  de  Ryvere,  Gascon,  esquire,  of  an  annuity  of 
Westminster.   20/.  from  the  issues  of  the  duchy  of  Cornwall.  By  p.s. 

Feb.  23.         The  like  to  John  Howard,  king's  knight,  of  the  office  of  constable  and  of 
Westminster,   the  custody  of  the  king's  castle  of  N'orwich  from  4  March  last,  with  a  fee 

of  20/.  yearly  from  the  issues  of  the  counties  of  Norfolk  and  Suffolk  and  all 
other  accustomed  profits.  By  p.8. 


\Aa\  MsUBtUNS  11. 

Dec.  12.  Licence  for  the  king's  kinsman  Richard,  earl  of  Warwick,  and  Anne 
Westminster,  bis  wife,  sister  and  heir  of  Henry,  late  duke  of  Warwick,  and  one  of  the 
beirs  of  Anne  his  daughter,  viz.  one  of  the  daughters  of  Isabel,  lat« 
countess  of  Warwick,  mother  of  the  said  duke,  to  enter  into  all  custl3s,  lord- 
ships, honours,  commotes,  cantreds,  alien  priories,  lands,  rents,  reversions, 
services,  milLs,  fisheries,  rights,  pensions,  portions,  forests,  offices,  courts 
leet,  views  of  frank-pledge,  returns  of  writs,  chaces,  advowsons,  knights' 
fees  and  other  possessions  in  England  and  Wales  and  the  marches  of  which 
the  said  Anne,  daughter  of  the  said  duke,  was  seised,  or  which  revolted  to 
her  on  the  death  of  the  said  countess  or  Richard,  late  earl  of  Warwick, 
deceased,  son  of  ,Thomas  late  lord  le  Despenser,  and  to  hold  them  with  all 
issues  from  the  time  of  their  deaths.  By  p.s. 

April  8.  Appointment,  during  pleasure,  of  Peter  Ardern,  knight,  as  one  of  the 

Westminster,  justices  of  the  Bench,  receiving  the  accustomed  fee.  By  K. 

1462. 

Feb.  12.  Appointment  of  William  Herbert,  lord  Herbert,  king's  knight,  to  the 
Westminster,  custody  of  t*he  lordships  of  Swaynesey,  Gower  and  Kelbey  in  South  Wales 
and  all  castles,  manors,  lands,  rents,  services  and  other  possessions,  parcel 
of  the  same,  late  of  John,  duke  of  Norfolk,  deceased,  during  the  minority 
of  John  his  son  and  heir,  with  all  royal  rights,  escheats,  franchises,  liberties, 
courts,  views  of  frank-pledge,  cantreds,  commotes,  hundreds,  fairs,  markets, 
knights'  fees,  advowsons  and  other  appurtenances,  rendering  to  the  king 
200  marks  yearly ;  and  grant  to  him  for  20  years  from  Michaelmas  last  of  the 
castle,  town  and  lordship  of  Haverford  West  and  all  lands  and  possessions 
in  Anablepill,  Steynton,  Ckippidbusshe,  Thiwode,  Lamburston,  Ohirchehill 
atid  in  the  parish  of  Steynton,  parcel  of  the  afime,  with  all  royal  rights, 
escheats  etc.,  rendering  to  the  king  100  marks  yearly.  By  p.s. 

I^eb.  21.  Grant  for  life  to  Robert  Leget  of  the  office  of  chief  mason  of  the  king's 

Westminster  castle  of  Wyndesore^  receiving  fees  as  in  the  times  of  Edward  III.  and 

Richard  II.  from  the  issues  of  the  castle.  By  K. 

Feb.  20.         The  like  to  Henry  Lewe,  mariner,  of  an  annuity  of  10  marks  from  the 
Westimnsteri  first  day  of  the  reign  from  the  issues  of  the  county  of  Devon.  By  j).s. 

Feb.  23.  Grant  to  Heniy  Courtenay,  esquire,  his  heirs  and  assigns,  of  the  lordships 

Westminster,  and  manors  of  Brommoure  and  Old  Lymyngton  aud  the  borough  of  New 
Lymyngton,  co.  Southampton,  the  lordships  and  manors  of  Chilmelegh, 
Holdehamp,  Dowelton,  Coruewode  and  Baillcsford,  the  boroughs  of  Chilme- 
legh and  Neuton  Popelf  ord  and  all  lands  and  messuages  in  Thorne^  Northe-» 
pde,  Huntebeare,  Twhikkebeare,  Whitewell  and  Brokelond  Trille,  co. 
Devon,  and  the  manor  and  lordship  of  Hcmyngton,  co.  Somerset,  and  all 
Other  lands^  rents  and  services  in  those  places  with  advowsons,  knights' 


120  ,      CALENDAR  OP  PATENT  EOLLS. 


1162.  Afembratie  11 — cont, 

* 

fees,  franchises,  liberties,  hundreds,  courts  leet,  viewA  of  frank-pledge,  fairs 
and  other  profits,  not  exceeding  the  value  of  200/.  yearly,  in  the  king's 
hands  by  reason  of  an  act  of  Parliament  at  Westminster,  4  November. 

ByK. 

Feb.  24.  Grant  in  frank  almoin  to  the  prior  and  c<»nvent  of  Mountgra)ce<.  of  the 

Westminfiter.  Carthusian  order,  of  the  manor  of  Atherstou,  co.  Warwick,  late  pisurcel  of  the 

alien  priory  of  Great  Okebourn,  co,  Wilts,  with  knights'  fees  and  advow- 

sons,  for  the  relief  of  the  poor  estate  oF  the  house  and  the  expenses  of  persons 

gathering  there  weekly.  By  p.8. 

Feb.  23.  Grant  for  life  to  Florence,  wife  of  Eobert  Savage,  of  the  office  of  the 

WestminBter.  custody  of  the  king's  waidrobe  in  the  city  of  London  called  *  le  Prynce 

warderobe,'  with  the  accustomed  fees  at  the  hands  of  the  receiver  of  the 

duchy  of  Cornwall.  By  p.H. 

Feb.  26.         Pardon  to  John  Duddeley,  lord  of  Duddeley,  knight,  late  treasurer  of  the 

Westminster,   household  of  rfenry  VI.,  of  all  debts,  accounts,  fines,  forfeitui-es,  issues 

and  amercements  due  from  him  to  the  king.  By  p.s. 

2^g2  Membrane  10. 

Dec.  4.  Appointment  for  life  of  Thomas  Burgh,  esquire,  as  one  of  the  esquires 

Westminster,  of  the  body,  receiving  50  marks  yearly  from  2  April  last  from  the  issues  of 

the  lordship  of  Kirton  in  Lyudesey,  co.  Lincoln.  By  p.s. 

Dec.  11.  The  like  of  William  Gomme,  priest,  as  the  king's  chaplain  to  celebrate 
Westminster,  divine  service  in  the  chapel  of  Holy  Trinity  within  his  park  of  Bestormell, 
CO.  Cornwall,  receiving  4/.  yearly  for  his  seller  at  the  hands  of  the  receiver 
general  of  the  duchy  of  Cornwall  from  the  issues  of  his  office,  with  houses^ 
gardens  and  other  profits,  in  the  same  manner  as  tlohn  Jolyu,  chaplain  of 
the  same  chapel,  in  the  year  41  Edward  III.  By  p.s. 

Vacated  by  surrender  and  cancelled^  because  the  king  granted  to  him 
the  4/.  yearly  for  life  in  the  said  chapel  by  other  letters  patent^  21  May^ 
^Edward  IV. 

Dec.  12.  Grant  for  life  to  Humphrey  Staffi>rd  of  Suthewik,  knight,  of  the  office  of 

Westminster,  steward  of  all  castles,  lordships,  manors,  lands  and  other  possessions  belong- 
ing to  the  duchy  of  Cornwall  in  the  county  of  Cornwall,  from  Easter  last, 
receiving  40  marks  yearly  at  the  hands  of  the  receivers  of  the  duchy,  with 
all  other  accustomed  profits.  By  p.s. 

Mandate  in  pursuance  to  the  receivers  of  the  duchy» 

Dec.  22.  Grant  in  mortmain  to  John,  the  abbot,  and  the  convent  of  St.  Albans  of 

Westminster,  the  alien  priory  of  Pembroke  in  South  Wales,  with  all  lands,  rents,  services, 
issues,  tithes,  knights'  fees,  advowson^,  franchises,  oblations,  revenues, 
annuities,  pensions,  portions,  imposts,  homages,  fealties,  reliefs,  courts  leet, 
views  of  frank-pledge,  liberties,  reversions,  wills,  wards,  mai*riages,  escheats^ 
waifs,  strays,  woods,  warrens,  forfeitures,  moors,  marshes,  fisheries,  meadows, 
feedings,  pastures,  ^infangthief,  outefangthief,'  yeai*,  day  and  waste,  chattels 
of  felons  and  fugitives  and  outlaws  and  felons  of  themselves,  deodands  and 
other  profits.  By  p.s. 

Dec.  22,  General  pardon  to  William  Catesby,  knight,  upon  fine  nuide  by  him. 

Westminster.  By  J^^ 

Dec.  22.  Presentation  of  Hugh  Fraunces  to  the  parish  church  of  Burham,  in  the 

Westminster,  diocese  of  Carlisle,  void  by  the  death  of  the  last  parson. 

Dec.  17.  Grant  for  life  to  George  Medelton  of  the  office  of  keeper  of  the  king's 

Westminster,  manor  of  Claryngdon  from  4  March  last,  from  which  date  he  has  held  the 

office,  with  the  accustomed  fees  from  the  issues  of  the  county  of  Wilts,  he 

having  surrendei^d  his  letters  patent,  dated  Id  July,  granting  him  the  office 

of  porter  of  the  said  manor.  Bv  K« 


\ 


1  EDWARD  IV.— Part  IV.  121 


1461.  Membrane  10 — cont, 

Nov.  30.         The  like  to  WiUiam  Staynburst  of  the  office  of  customer  of  the  king's 

Wcstmiaater.  ports  of  Dublin  and  Drogbda  in  Ireland,  with  the  accustomed  fees  from  the 

issues  of  the  office.  By  p.s. 

Dec.  21.  Grant  to  John  Fogge,  knight,  and  his  heirs  and  assigns,  of  the  manors 

Westminster,   of  Tonsford  and  Dane,  co.  Kent,  with  all  profits  and  emoluments,  in  the 

king's  hands  by  reason  of  an  act  in  Parliament  at  Westminster,  4  November 

last. 

1462. 

Jan.  21.         Ghrant,  during  good  behaviour,  to  Bichord  Symson  of  the  office  o£  con« 

Westminster.   troUer  of  the  scrutiny  of  all  merchandise  brought  from  beyond  seas  to 

the  port  of  London  and  ports  and  places  adjacent,  with  the  accustomed  fees. 

By  p.8. 

1461. 

Dec.  12.         Grant  for  life  to  Henry  Gray  the  younger,  esquire,  of  the  office  of  keeper 
WeetuinBter.  of  the.  king's  armoury  within  the  Tower  of  London,  receiving  the  aocus- 
tomed  feesi  from  the  farm  or  fee  farm  of  the  city  of  Norwich  by  the 
hands  of  the  sheriffs  of  the  same  county,  with  all  other  accustomed  profits. 

ByK. 

1462. 

Feb.  7.  The  like  to  John  Bede  of  100s.  yearly  from  Michaelmas  last  from  the 

Westminster,  issues  of  the  counties  of  BedfoiVi  and  Buckingham,  in  lieu  of  a  like  granc 

to  him  from  the  fee  farm  of  the  city  or  town  of  Bochester,  co.  Kent,  by 

letters  patent  dated  22  July,  surrendered.  By  £• 

1461. 

Nov.  15.  Inspeanmus  and  confirmation  of  letters  patent  of  the  king's  father 
Westminster.  Bichard,  late  duke  of  York,  dated  at  London,  14  November,  39  Henry  YL, 
being  a  grant  for  life  to  John  FitzwiUiam,  son  of  Nicholas  Fitzwilliam, 
esquire,  of  a  yearly  rent  of  10  marks  from  the  issues  of  his  lordships  in  the 
county  of  York  on  condition  of  his  service  for  life  to  the  duke  and  to 
Edward  earl  of  March,  the  duke's  son.        For  ^  mark  paid  in  the  hanaper. 


1462. 


Membrane  9. 


Feb.  26.         Pardon  to  Robert  Sutton,  monk  of  the  monastery  of  St.  Saviour,  Fever- 
Westminster,  sham,  of  all  trespasses  committed  by  him  in  the  prosecution,  pei*qui8ition, 
acceptance  and  publication  of  bulls  or  other  apostolic  letters  of  the  pope 
touching  any  ecclesiastical  benefice  contrary  to  the  statute  of  provisors. 

By  p.s. 

Feb.  27.  Grant  for  life  without  fine  or  fee  to  the  king's  servant  Thomas  Mon- 
Westminster.  gomery,  knight,  of  two  parts  of  the  manor  and  town  of  Saldeyn  otherwise 
Salden  in  the  counties  of  Buckingham  and  Bedford,  and  of  the  members 
and  parcels  thereof,  and  all  manors,  lands,  rents,  services  and  other  posses- 
sions in  the  town  of  Muresley,  Weston  Turvile,  Hoggeston,  Bechompton, 
Great  Horewode,  Little  Horewode,  Great  Kymbell,  Little  Kymbell, 
Wendovere,  £well,  Luton  and  Fynelsgrove,  cos.  Buckingham,  Bedford  or 
Hertford,  which  Robert  Whytyngham  alone,  or  John  Whytingham  alone, 
or  either  of  them  jointly  with  others,  held,  with  all  members,  buildings, 
gardens,  courts  leet,  views  of  frank-pledge,  knight's  fees,  advowsoos,  wards, 
marriages,  heriots,  bondmen,  waifs,  strays  and  other  profits,  without  impeach- 
ment of  waste,  i*eudering  to  the  king  Id.  yearly;  and  grant  that  at  the 
town  of  Muresley,  co.  Buckingham,  which  is  parcel  of  the  said  manor  of 
Saldeyn,  he  may  have  a  market  weekly  on  Wednesday  and  two  fairs  of 
three  days  yearly  at  the  Assumption  and  the  Nativity  of  the  Virgin.  Grant 
to  him  also  for  life  of  the  manois  of  Donyngton  otherwise  Danton,  Stone 
Ford  and  Permere,  co.  Buckingham,  Penley  otherwise  Penly,  co.  Hertford, 
and  Maudeleyns  otherwise  Maudlyns  Boustrewys,  cos.  Buckingham  and 
Hertford,  and  a  messuage  or  lodging  with  houses  and  shops  annexed  in  the 


122  CALfiSDAR  OP  PATENT  EOLLS. 


1462.  M^mbran^  9-w^o«^ 

pftrish  of  St.  Stephen  in  the  ward  of  Walbrok,  London^  lately  held*  by  the 
said  Robert  Whityngham,  with  knights'  fees,  advowsons,  etc.,  withoat 
impeachment  of  waste,  by  fealty.  He  shall  have  free  warren  in  all  the 
demesnes  of  the  above,  provided  that  the  lands  are  not  within  the  bounds 
of  the  forest  and  that  no  one  enter  therein  to  hunt  without  his  licence 
under  forfeiture  to  the  king  of  10/.  By  p.s. 

Feb.  26.  Licence  for  John  Bamme  of  the  county  of  Kent,  esquire,  to  enter  into  the 
Westminster,  manor  of  Mulso,  co.  Buckingham,  and  hold  the  same  to  himself  and  the  heirs 
of  his  body.  Thomas  Wake,  esquire,  deceajsed,  was  seized  in  his  demesne  as 
of  fee  of  the  said  manor  and  granted  it  to  Richard  Bamme  and  Joan  his  wife, 
parents  of  the  said  John,  and  the  heirs  of  their  body,  with  remainder  to  the 
right  heirs  of  Richard ;  and  they  were  seised  of  it,  and  after  their  death  it 
descended  to  the  said  John,  their  son  and  heir,  until  it  was  taken  into  the 
king's  hands  by  the  forfeiture  of  Robert  Whityngham,  knight.  By  p.8« 

Feb.  23.         Ratification  of  the  estate  which  Thomas  Godebowre  has  as  parson  of  the 
Westminster,  parish  church  of  Dacre,  in  the  diocese  of  Carlisle.  By  K, 

Feb.  17.         Appointment  for  life  of  John  Clerc,  apothecary  of  the  city  of  London^  as 

Westminster,   the  king's  apothecary,  receiving  Sd.  daily  for  his  fee  from  the  issues  of  the 

county  of  Devon  and  a  robe  of  the  king's  vesture  yearly  at  Christmas  at  the 

great  wardiobei  By  p.8. 

Feb.  20.  Pardon  to  Humphrey  Nevill,  late  of  Brauncepath  in  the  bishopric  of 
Westminster.  Durham,  esquire,  who  was  attainted  by  authority  of  Parliament  at  West- 
minster, 4  November,  of  all  executions  against  him,  by  virtue  of  any  act 
made  in  that  parliament  and  grant  to  him  of  his  life,  provided  that  he 
remain  in  prison  during  the  king's  pleasure  and  that  this  pardon  do  not 
give  him  any  title  or  claim  to  any  forfeited  lands  or  possessions.         By  K« 

Feb.  20.  Grant  for  life  to  the  king's  kinsman  George,  bishop  of  Exeter,  by  the 
Westminster,  service  of  a  knight's  fee,  of  the  lordships  and  manors  of  Topsham  and 
Exilond,  the  liberty,  fishery  and  conservancy  of  the  river  Exe,  and  the 
hundreds  of  Woneford,  Estbudlegh,  Westbudlegh  and  Harygge,  co.  Devon, 
with  the  advowson  of  the  prebend  of.  Heighes  and  knights'  fees,  liberties, 
franchises,  courts  leet,  views  of  frank-pledge  and  other  profits  and  emolu- 
ments, in  the  king's  hands  by  reason  of  an  act  of  Parliament  at  Westminster, 
4  November,  or  otherwise.  By  K, 


1461. 


Mbmbranh  8. 


July  17.         Grrant  for  life  to  Salph  Seyntleger^  from  4  Mai^h  ksi,  of  the  offices  of 

Westminster,   constable  and  parker  of  the  king's  castle  and  park  of  Ledes,  co.  Kent, 

receiving  such  fees  from  the  issues  of  the  manor  or  lordship  of  Ledes  as 

Bobert  Corby,  late  constable,  and  John  Dangore,  late  parker,  had  in  the 

time  of  Edward  III»,  with  all  other  profits*  By  p.s. 

July  8.  The  like  to  the  king's  servant  John  More,  esquire^  of  the  office  of  oiie  of 

Westminster,   the  king's  sergeants  at  arms,  receiving  12rf.  daily  from  4  March  last  front 

the  issues  of  the  county  of  Devon  and  a  livery  yearly  at  Christmas  at  the 

great  wardrobe.  By  p.s. 

June  10.         The  like  to  the  king's  servant  William  Evyngton  of  the  office  of  the 

Westminster,   custody  of  the  king's  park  of  Wyndesore,  with  fees  as  in  the  last  year  of 

Edward  III.  and  the  first  of  Richard  II.  from  the  issues  of  the  castle  and 

lordship  of  Wyndesore.  By  p.s. 

June  10.         The  like  to  the  same  of  the  office  of  the  custody  of  the  manor  within  the 
Westminster,   said  park,  with  fees  as  above.  By  p.s. 

July  14.         The  like  to  Joan  Asteley,  widow,  of  an  annuity  of  40/.  from  the  issues 
Westminster,   of  the  counties  of  Warwick  and  Lelcesten  By  p*8« 


]  EDWARD  IV.— PAJfeT  IV.  123 


J  461  •  Memhrane  8--c(m#» 

April  22.         The  like  to  the  king^s  servant  Nicholas  Gaynesfotd,  one  of  the  ushers  of 

Westminster,   the  king's  chamber^  of  the  custody  of  the  king's  park  of  Odyham,  with 

wages  and  fees  as  in  the  times  of  Edward  III.  and  Richard  II.  from  the 

issues  of  the  manor  or  lordship  of  Odyham.  By  K. 

July  12.         The  like  to  the  king's  servant  John  Wykes,  usher  of  the  king's  chamber, 

Westminster,   of  the  office  of  ranger  of  the  king's  chase  of  Rysyng,  co.  Norfolk,  with 

wages,  fees  and  advantages  as  in  the  last  year  of  Edward  III.  and  the  first 

of  Richard  II.  By  p.s. 

July  17»  Qrant  in  mortmain  to  William,  master  of  the  order  of  Burton  St.  Lazarus 
W««tminster,  of  Jerusalem  in  England,  warden  of  the  hospital  of  St.  Giles  without  London, 
and  the  brethren  of  his  order  of  the  hospital  of  the  Holy  Innocents  called 
'  Malardry '  without  the  suburbs  of  Lincoln  with  all  lands,  meadows^ 
feedings,  pastures,  woods,  rents  and  services  thereto  pertaining  together 
with  all  rights,  profits,  commodities,  liberties,  franchises  and  other  appur-* 
tenances,  and  appointment  of  the  said  master  and  his  successors  as  wai^dens 
of  the  said  hospital  of  the  Holy  Innocents ;  to  sustain  yearly  for  ever  three 
lepers  from  the  servants  of  the  household,  to  be  nominated  by  letters  patent 
under  the  great  seal,  or,  if  so  many  cannot  be  found  in  the  household,  three 
lepers  from  the  king's  tenants.  By  p.s. 

July  16.        '  Grant  for  life  to  the  king's  servant  William  Philip  of  the  office  of  one  of 

Westminster,  the  king's  Serjeants  at  arms,  with  wages  of  I2d.  daily  from  4  March  last 

from  the  f eefarm,  issues,  <&c.  of  the  counties  of  London  and  Middlesex,  and 

a  livery  of  the  suit  of  esquires  of  the  household  yearly  at  Christmas  at  the 

great  wardrobe.  By  K.  by  word  of  mouth. 

July  1.  The  like  to  John  Lawley  of  the  office  of  the  king's  general  attorney  in 

Westminster.  North  Wales,  receiving  yearly  the  accustomed  fees.  By  p.s. 

July  24.  The  like  to  the  king's  servant  Thomas  Rede  of  the  office  of  the  bailiwick 

Westminster,  of   Surrey  otherwise   called    ^Bagshotes  Bailly*  in   the   king's   forest  of 

Wyndesore,  receiving  the  accustomed  fees  from  the  issues  of  the  counties  of 

Oxford  and  Berk^>  with  all  other  profits.  By  p.s. 

July  21.  Grant  to   Nicholas   Gaynesford,  king's  esquire,   usher  of   the  king's 

Westminster,  chamber,  of  the  custody  of  all  lands  late  of  John  Michclgrove,  deceased^ 

tenant  in  chief  by  knight  service,  during  the  minority  of  Elizabeth  his 

daughter  and  heir,  with  her  marriage.  By  p.S4 

Vacated  because  otherwise  below. 

July  20.         Grant  to  the  king's  servants  William  Hastynges^   knight,  and  John 

Westminster.  Huddelston,  esquire,  or  either  of  them,  of  the  next  advowson  and  patronage 

of  the  parish  church  of  Thornton,  in  the  diocese  of  York.  By  p»s. 

July  23.         (jeneral  pardon  to  John  Pury  of  Chamberhousy  co.  Berks,  esquil*e,  of  all 
Westminster.  oSeuces  committed  by  him  before  20  June  last*  By  p.8» 


July  Id.         Grant  for  life  to  the  king's  servant  John  Arilndell  of  Lanhern,  esquire,  of 
Westminster,  the  office  of  the  custody  of  the  king's  parks  of  Hellysbury  and  Lanteglos^ 
CO.  Cornwall,  receiving  the  accustomed  fees  from  the  issues  of  the  duchy. 

By  p.s; 

July  20.         Grant,  during  good  behaviour,  to  the  king's  servant  Bichard  Sutton  of 

Westminster,  the  office  of  one  of.  the  yeomen  tailors  in  the  great  wardrobe,  receiving  ftea 

as  in  the  last  year  of  Edward  III.  and  the  first  of  Richard  II.  and  a  livery 

at  the  hands  of  the  keeper  of  the  wardrobe.  By  p.8. 

July  7.  Grant  for  life  to  James  DamjKJrt  of  the  office  of  bne  of  the  king's  Serjeants 

Westminster,  at  arms  from  4  March  last,  receiving  12c^.  daily  frt>m  the  issues  of  the  king's 


124  CALENDAR  OS^  PATENT  ROLLS. 


IJjgl,  .    '  Membrane  7 — cont. 

lordship,  manor  and  hundred  of  Odjam,  co.  Southampton,  with 'a  robe  of 
the  king's  livery  of  the  suit  of  esquires  of  the  household  yearly  at  Christmas 
at  the  great  wardrobe.  By  p.s. 

Vacated  by  surrender  and  cancelled  so  far  as  the  \2d,  daily  are  can- 
cemedy  because  on  26  July^  5  Edxcard  /F.,  the  king  granted  to  him  \2d. 
daily  for  lifefrotn  the  Michaelmas  preceding  from  the  issues  of  the  county 
of  WiUs, 

July  20.         The  like  to  John  Wykes,  esquire,  usher  of  the  king's  chamber,  of  the 

VTestminseer.  office  of  constable  of  the  king's  castle  and  lordship  of  Rysyng,  co.  Norfolk, 

from  Easter  last,  receiving  4/.  yearly  from  the  issues  of  the  same ;  and  also 

a  yearly  rent  of  16/.  from  the  same.  By  K. 

June  15.         errant,  during  good  behaviour,  to  Thomas  Mongomery,  esquire,  of  the 

Westminstef.   custody  of  the  coinages  of  gold  and  silver  within  the  realm,  receiving  wages 

as  in  the  last  year  of  Edward  IIL  and  the  first  of  Richard  II.  from  the 

issues  of  the  same  from  Easter  last.  By  p.s. 

July  20.  Grant  for  life  to  tJie  king's  servant  Edmund  Glase,  clerk  of  the  king's 
Westminster,  goods  (arerte),  of  the  custody  from  Easter  last  of  the  king's  park  called  *  le 
STewparc '  of  Shene,  co.  Surrey,  with  wages  of  2d.  dai^  from  the  issues 
of  the  king's  lordship  of  Hamme,  co.  SuiTey,  with  7  acres  of  meadow 
lying  by  the  bridge  of  Chartesey,  co.  Middlesex,  for  the  sustenance  of  the 
king's  does  within  the  park  in  winter  with  a  mansion,  to  wit  a  hall,  a  kitchen, 
chambers  and  other  houses  thereto  pertaining  and  a  garden  annexed,  which 
mannion  adjoins  the  mansion  of  the  clerk  of  the  works  on  one  side  and 
extends  to  the  new  park  on  the  other ;  2d,  daily  from  the  issues  of  the 
lordships  of  Hamme  and  Petresham,  co.  Surrey,  for  the  repair  of  the  palings 
and  hedges  of  the  park ;  the  ofHee  of  king's  gardener  of  Shene,  receiving 
the  ancient  accustomed  fees  from  Easter  last  from  the  issues  of  the  lordahipe 
of  Shene,  Fetresham  and  Hamme ;  and  the  custody  of  the  warren  of  the 
king's  lordship  of  Shene,  with  the  accustomed  fees  from  the  issues  of  the 
same  lordbhips.  By  p.s. 

July  7.  Whereas  Humphrey  Staiford,  esquire,  son  and  heir  of  John  Stafford, 

Westminster,  knight,  was  seised  in  his  demesne  as  of  fee  tail  of  divers  manoyrs  and  lands 
80|netime  of  Humphrey  Stafford  of  Hoke,  knight,  with  remainder  to  William 
Staiford,  father  of  Humphrey  Stafford,  knight,  and  the  heirs  of  his  body, 
because  the  said  Humphrey,  esquire,  has  no  issue  of  his  body,  the  king 
grants  to  the  said  Humphrey,  knight,  and  his  heirs  all  the  said  manors  and 
kinds  and  all  other  lands  of  which  the  said  Humphrey,  esquire,  was  seised. 

By  p.s. 

June  14.         Grant  for  life  to  the  king*8  servant  Nicholas  Suthcote  of  the  office  of  one 

Wostminster.  of  the  king's  Serjeants  at  arms,  with  wages  of  \2d,  daily  from  4  March  last 

from  the  issues  of  the  counties  of  Somerset  and  Dorset,  and  a  livery  of  tlie 

suit  of  esquires  of  the  household  yearly  at  Christmas  at  the  great  wardrobe. 

By  K.  by  word  of  mouth. 

July  6.  The  like  to  John  Haward,  knight,  of  the  custody  of  the  king's  castle  of 

Westminster.   Colcestre  and  hi^  lordships  there,  to  wit  180  acres  of  land,  27  acres  of  meadow 

and  30«.  rent,  of  the  hundred  of  Tenderyug  and  of  two  parts  of  a  water-mill, 

in  the  county  of  Essex.  By  p.s. 

July  15.         Grant,  during  pleasure,  to  the  king's  servant  Thomas  Longe,  one  of  the 

Westminster,  soldiers  of  the  town  of  Calais,  of  the  office  of  bailiff  of  the  town  of  Bye,  with 

fees  as  in  the  last  year  of  Edward  III.  and  the  first  of  Kichard  II.       By  K. 

Jidy  24.  Grant  for  life  to  the  king's  servitor  William  Welles,  knight,  of  the  office 
Westminster,  of  chief  butler  in  Ireland,  with  the  ancient  accustomed  fees ;  the  manors  of 
Turvy,  Balscadane  and  Russhe,  co.  Dublin,  with  advowsons  and  all  lands, 
rents,  services,  courts  and  profits  and  the  manors  of  Blakcastell  and  Duna- 
more,  co.  Meath,  with  the  Uke,  at  a  like  rent,  rendering  to  the  king  a  red 
rose  at  Christmas  luid  Midsummer,  By  p.s. 


1  EDWARD  IV.-J*ABT  IV.  126 


-tAf^-t  ,  Membrane  6. 

July  16.         The  like  to  the  king*s.Bervant  Jolin  Con  vers,  esquire,  of  the  office  of  one 

Westminster,  of  the  king's  Serjeants  at  arms,  with  wages  of  \2d,  dailj  from  4  March  last 

from  tiie  issues  of  the  counties  of  Bedford   and  Buckingham,  and  a  liyery 

of  the  suit  of  esquires  of  the  household  yearly  at  Christmas  at  the  great 

wardrobe.  By  K.  by  word  of  mouth. 

July  14.         The  like  to  William  Fenys,  lord  Say  of  Scale,  knight,  from  Easter  last, 

Westminster,  of  the  office  of  keeper  and  warden  and  the  custody  of  the  New  Forest,  co. 

Southampton,  the  manor  and  park  of  Lyndeherst  and  a  rent  of  40«.  yearly 

which  the  abbot  of  Redyng  pays  to  the  king  for  a  tenement  in  the  forest, 

with  nil  liberties,  privileges,  rights,  fees  and  proGts,  deer  excepted.     By  p.s. 

July  22.  Appointment,  during  good  behaviour,  of  Thomas  Mowntgomery,  knight, 

Westminster,  as  one  of  the  king's  carvers,  receiving  40/.  yeai*ly  from  the  foe  farm  of 

the  city  of  Noi-wicli.  By  p.8. 

July  12.         Grant  for  life  to  the  king's  servitor  William  Haute  the  younger,  esquire, 

Westmmster.  of  the  office  of  keeper  of  the  king's  warren  by  Sandwich,  co.  Kent,  with 

foes  as  in  the  times  of  Edward  HI.  and  liichard  II.  By  p.s. 

July  18.         The  like  to  the  king's  servant  John  Laurence  of  the  office  of  being  one 

Westminster,  of  the  four  messengers  of  the  Exchequer,  receiving  wages  of  A\d.  daily  at 

the  receipt  of  the  Exchequer  with  a  robe  of  the  king's  livery  such  as 

the  yeomen  of  the  king's  chamber  have  yearly  at  Christmas  at  the  great 

wardrobe.  By  p.s. 

May  28.  The  like  to  Johu   Dowes  of  the    office  of  bailiff  of  Rysing  Castell, 

Westminster,  co.  ^^orfolk,  with  foes  as  in  the  last  year  of  Edwai-d  III.  and  tlie  first  of 

Richard  II.  By  p.8. 

June  18.        Appoiutmeut,  during  pleasure,  of  John  Dcconson  to  purvey  sea  and  fresh - 
Westminster,   water  ilsh  and  salt  fish  at  the  charges  of  George,  bishop  of  Exeter  and 
chancellor,  within  the  town  and  liberty  of  Hastynges. 

June  17.        ITie  like  of  the  said  John  within  the  town  of  Wynchelseo. 
Westminster. 

July  23.         Grant  for  life  to  John  Fereby  of  the  office  of  one  of  the  yeomen  of  the 

Westmintter.   crown,  and  6 J.  daily  from  4  March  last  from  the  farm  of  the  town  of 

Notyngham  and  tlie  increment  of  the  same.  By  p«s. 

July  20.  Confirmation  to  the  prior  and  convent  of  Withnm  in  Selwode,co.  Somerset, 
Westminster,  the  first  house  of  the  Cai'thusinn  order  in  England,  of  the  foundation  of 
Henry  II.,  of  the  manors  of  Warmyngton,  co.  Warwick,  Speetebury, 
CO.  Dorset,  and  Aston,  co.  Berks,  lately  belonging  to  the  alien  priory  of 
Toites,  granted  to  them  in  frank  almoin  by  letters  patent  dated  28  November, 
19  Henry  VI.,  with  fees,  advowsons,  pensions,  portions  and  other  emoluments, 
from  4  March  last.  By  p.s.,  and  for  20«.  paid  in  the  hanaper. 

July  24.         Presentation  of  William  Estwykke,  chaplain,  to  the  church  of  Rounton, 
Westminster.   Hardwik  and  Segthe,  in  the  diocese  of  Norwich,  void  by  the  resignation  of 
John  Conynggysholme,  chaplain. 

July  18.  Grant  to  Johu  Bam,  csf^ulre,  of  the  office  of  steward  of  the  courts  of 

Westmmster.  the  king's  hundreds  of  Middelton  and  Merden,  co.  Keut,  and  bailiff  of 

those  hundreds,  with  fees  as  in  the  times  of  Edward  III.  and  Richard  II. 

from  the  issues  of  the  same.  By  K. 

July  16.         Grant  for  life  to  the  king's  servant  John  Bury  of  the  office  of  one  of  the 
Westminster,  king's  scrjennts  at  arms,  with  wages  of  12^^.  daily  from  the  farm  and  issues 
of  the  counties  of  London  and  Middlesex,  and  a  livery  of  the  suit  of  esquires 
of  the  household  yearly  at  Christmas  at  the  great  wardrobe. 

By  K.  by  word  of  mouth. 

July  20.         The  like  to  the  king's  servant  Richard  Garnet  of  the  office  of  serjeant 
Wettmiufter.  of  the  king's  pavilions,  with  fees  as  in  the  times  of  Edward  III.  and 
Richard  II. 


126  CALENDAB  OP  PATENT  BOLLS, 


1461.  Membrane  6 — conu 

July  23.         The  like  to  Bichard  Walter,  *  plomer/  of  the  office  of  plumber  of  the 
Westminster,   kind's  castle  of  Wyndesore,  co.  Berks,  receiving  6d.  daily  from  the  issues 
of  the  castle,  with  all  other  profits  anciently  belonging  to  that  office. 

By  p.s. 

July  26.         The  like  to  Walter  Cotford,  knight,  that  he  be  one  of  the  poor  knights 

Westminster,  of  the  college  of  the  king's  free  chapel  of  St.  George  within  Wyndesore 

Castle,  receiving  the  usual  daily  wages  and  yesture  at  the  hands  of  the 

warden  of  the  collegei  with  a  habitation  within  the  castle.  By  p.s. 


Mbmbranb  5. 

July  22.  The  like  to  John  Dynham,  esquire,  one  of  the  houpehold,  of  the  office 
Westminster,  of  rider  {equestri),  or  master  forester,  of  the  king's  forest  or  chace  of 
Dertmore,  co.  Devon,  receiving  10  marks  yearly  for  his  fee  at  the  hands 
of  the  receiver-general  of  the  duchy  of  Cornwall  with  all  other  ancient 
accustomed  profits,  with  the  power  of  appointing  foresters  and  officers  under 
him.  By  K. 

July  14.  The  like  to  the  king's  sei*vant  Bichard  George  of  the  office  of  one  of 

Westminster,  the  king's  Serjeants  at  arms,  with  wagos  of  \2d.  daily  from  4  March  last 
from  the  issues  of  the  county  of  Southampton,  and  a  livery  of  the  suit  of 
esquires  of  the  household  yearly  at  Christmas  at  the  great  wardrobe. 

By  K.  by  word  of  mouth. 

July  1.  Grant  to  John  Dynham,  esquire,  of  600  marks  from^  the  first  issues  of 

Westminster,  the  duchy  of  Cornwall,  in  repayment  of  the  same  sum  lent  by  him  to  the 

king.  By  p.s. 

July  24.  General  pardon  to  John  Wylughby  of  Broke,  co.  Wilts,  knight,  otherwise 

Westminster.  John  Willughby  of  Brook  by  Westbury,  co.  Wilts,  knight,  otherwise  of 

Prampton,  co.  Lincoln,  of  all  offences  committed  by  him  and  all  forfeitures 

of  his  l^nds  and  goods.  By  p.s. 

July  2o.         Grant  for  life  to  the  king's  servant  Thomas  Montgomery,  knight,  of  the 

Westminster,   office   of    the  link   armourership    {lince  armature)   otherwise*  called  the 

hauberkership   {hauberyerie)  within  the  Tower  of  London,  receiving  6rf. 

daily  from  the  fee  faim  of  the  town  of  Jernemouth.  By  p.s. 

July  16,  The  like  to  the  king's  servant  John  Hoghton  of  the  office  of  one  of 

Westminster,  the  king's  Serjeants  at  arms,  with  wages  of  \'2d,  daily  from  4  March  last 
from  the  issues  of  the  county  of  Kent,  and  a  livery  of  the  suit  of  esquires 
of  the  household  yearly  at  Christmas  at  the  great  wardi'obe. 

By  K.  by  word  of  mouth. 

July  28.         Appointment  for  life  of  Master  Thomas  Kent,  doctor  of  either  law,  as 

Westminster,  secondary   in   the   office   of    the   privy  seal,   receiving  40/.   yearly  from 

4  March  last  from  the  issues  of  the  counties  of  London  and  Middlesex ; 

and  grant  to  him  for  life  of  50  marks  yearly  from  4  March  last  from  the 

issues  of  the  counties  of  Oxford  and  Berks.  By  p.s. 

July  23.  Grant  for  life  to  Master  Thomas  Kent  and  liichard  Langport,  clerk,  of 

Westminster,  the  office  of  clerk  of  the  council,  receiving  40  marks  yearly  from  4  March 

last  from  the  issues  of  the  manor  of  Braddewell,  co.  Essex,  with  a  livery 

of  vesture  with  linings  and  furs  for  summer  and  winter  at  the  great 

■  wardrobe.  By  p.s. 

July  27.         The  like  to   the   king's  servitor  John  Hemyngburgh  of  the  office  of 

Westminster,   constable  of  the  king's  castle  of  Tremynton  within  the  duchy  of  Cornwall, 

with  the  ancient  accustomed  fees  from  15  April  last  from  the  issues  of  the 

duchy.  By  p.s. 

July  20.  The  like  to  the  king's  servant  Walter  Devereux  oi  Ferrers,  knight,  of 

Westminster,  the  king's  brewhouse  (pandoxatorinm)  called  '  le  Walsshman '  without 


1  EDWARD  IV.-PABT  IV,  W7 


1461,  Membrane  S^-^oont. 

Ludgate  in  the  ward  of  Faryndon  Without  in  the  parish  of  St.  Martin 
without  Ludgate,  London,  By  p.s.  [223]. 

July  24.        The  like  to  Rose  late  the  wife  of  Robert  Thorp,  esquire,  the  king's  dear 
Weatmiiwter.   widow,  of  10/.  yearly  at  the  Exchequer.  By  p.s. 

July  25.         The  like  to  William  Fault  of  the  custody  of  the  king's  park  of  Beflete 
;  Wefltminster.  and  the  warren  there,  oo.  Surrey,  with  the  ancient  accustomed  fees. 

By  p.s. 

July  20.         The  like  to  Ralph  Vestenden  of  10/.  yearly  from  Easter  last  from  the 

Westminster,   issues  of  the  counties  of  Surrey  and  Sussex  until  lie  shall  have  an  office 

for  life  of  the  king's  grant  of  the  yearly  value  of  20  marks.  By  p.8, 

MSMBRANS  4. 

June  16.         The  like  to  Hugh  Adams  of  the  office  of  porter  of  the  king's  castle  of 

WcBtmiMter.  Wallyngford,  co.  Berks,  with  fees  as  in  the  times  of  Edward  III.  and 

Richard  II.  By  p.s. 

July  16.         Ratification  of  the  estate  of  Nicholas  ap  Elys  as  rector  of  the  pariah 
Weatminster.  church  of  Llannelyan,  in  the  diocese  of  Bangor. 

July  1 8.  Grant  for  life  to  Thomas  Hardegrove  of  the  office  called  *  Oterhunt*  and 
Westminster.  2c/.  daily  for  himself,  \\d.  daily  fov  a  groom  under  him  and  |e/.  for  the 
puture  of  each  of  two  greyhounds  and  ten  running  dogs  from  5  March  last 
from  the  issues  of  the  counties  of  Essex  and  Hei*tford,  as  allowed  in  the 
great  roll  of  48  Edward  III.  in  the  account  of  John  Filol,  late  sheriff  of 
those  counties,  with  all  other  profits.  By  p.8, 

July  12.         The  like  to  the  king's  servant  George  Dale  of  the  office  of  the  custody  of 

Westminster,  the  king's  manor  and  warren  of  Haveryng  with  the  custody  of  the  south 

gate  of  the  park  there,  with  the  accustomed  fees  from  the  issues  of  the 

manor.  By  p.s. 

Vacated  because  otherwise  below, 

July  6.  Grant  to  Margaret,  countess  of  Shrewsbury,  of  the  custody,  during 

Westminster,  minority,  with  the  mai'riage  of  Thomas,  son  and  heir  of  John,  viscount 

Lysle,  and  of  all  his  lands,  and  so  from  heir  to  heir ;  and  also  the  20  marks 

yearly  which  Henry  VI.  granted  to  the  said  viscount  and  the  heirs  male  of 

his  body  on  his  creation  as  viscount  from  the  issues  of  the  county  of  Salop. 

By  p.8, 

July  20.  Grant  for  life  to  Thomas  Bodyn   of  the  office  of  the  custody  of  the 

Westminster,  king's  castle  of  Sandwich  with  the  meadows  called  *  Castelmedeus '  adjacent 

and  the  office  of  verger  of  the  town,  with  wages  of  U.  daily  from  the  issues 

of  the  said  meadows.  By  p.s. 

July  24.         The  like  to  the  king's  servant  John  Sidborough  of  the  office  of  keeper  of 
Westminster,  the  king's  privy  wardrobe  within  the  Tower  of  Ix)ndon,  receiving  wages 
from  the  first  day  of  the  reign  as  in   the   times  of  Edward  UI.  and 
Richard  II.  from  the  issues  of  the  counties  of  Essex  and  Hertford. 

By  p.s. 

July  24.         The  like  to  Roland  Johnson,  'yoman,'of  the  office  of  parker  of  the  king's 

Westminster,  park  called  ^  Calgarth,'  co.  Westmoreland,  and  the  custody  of  the  park,  with 

fees  as  in  the  times  of  Edward  III.  and  Richard  II.  By  p.s. 

July  20.  By  letters  patent  Henry  II.  granted  in  frank  almoin  to  the  prior  and. 

Westminster,  convent  of  La  Grande  Chartreuse  in  Savoy  60  marks  yearly  at  the  Exchequer 
in  England,  and  Richard  I.,  Edward  III.,  Henry  IV.  and  Henry  V.,  by 
several  letters  patent  confirmed  the  grant,  which  continued  until  in  the 
time  of  Henry  VI.,  the  prior  and  convent,  in  consideration  of  the  poverty  of 
the  prior  and  convent  of  the  house  of  their  order  called  the  Place  of  God, 
Henton,  co.  Somerset,  and  for  a  sum  of  700  marks  lent  to  them  and  paid  in 


128  ^    .  CALENDAR  OF  PATENT  ROLLS. 


1461.  Membrane  i.^^-cont, 

Savoj  under  the  common  seal  of  the  house  of  Henton,  surrendered  the  said 
letters  patent  and  confirmation b  thereof.  In  consideration  of  this  surrender, 
Henry  VI.,  by  letters  patent  dated  19  July  in  his  24th  year,  granted  in  frank 
almoin  to  William  Marchall,  then  prior,  and  the  convent  of  Lfenton,  60  marks 
yearly,  to  wit,  14/.  from  the  subsidy  &nd  ulnage  of  cloths  in  the  county  of 
Wilts  and  town  of  Salisbury,  4/.  6*.  Sd.  from  the  issues  of  that  county  and 
]  5/.  from  the  fee  farm  of  the  hundred  of  Calne,  co.  Wilts,  and  a  water  mill 
in  Calne,  during  the  life  of  Walter  Hungerford,  knight,  and  after  his  death 
from  the  said  subsidy  and  ulnage.  The  present  king,  in  consideration  that 
the  prior  and  convent  of  Hcnton  borrowed  the  said  700  marks  to  pay  the 
house  in  Savoy  and  that  the  persons  from  whom  they  Ijorrowed  are  not  yet 
repaid  in  full,  and  that  the  said  50  marks  are  notv  the  substance  of  their 
possessions  and  that  without  them  divine  service  cannot  there  be  maintained, 
and  that  their  house  has  fallen  into  decay,  hereby  grants  to  William 
Hatherlee,  now  prior,  and  the  convent  the  said  50  marks  yearly  from' 
4  March  last  from  the  said  subsidy  and  ulnage. 

By  p.s.  and  for  13;.  ^d.  paid  in  the  hanaper. 

July  26.         Grant  for  life  to  Henry  Fenne,  for  his  good  service  to  the  king  and  his 

Westminster,  father  Richard,  late  duke  of  York,  of  the  office  of  warrener  of  Purbek, 

CO.  Dorset,  with  the  accustomed  fees  from  the  issues  of  the  counties  of 

Somerset  and  Dorset.  By  p.s. 

July  5.  Mandate  to  all  sheriffs,  mayors,  bailiffs  and  others  to  permit  the  men  and 

Westmioster.  tenants  of  the  town  of  Southwold,  co.  Suffolk,  which  Gilbert  de  Clare,  late 
earl  of  Gloucester  and  Hertford,  held  as  parcel  of  the  earldom  of  Gloucester, 
to  be  quit  of  payment  of  toll,  pontage,  passage,  pickage,  pavage  and 
murage  throughout  the  realm  as  fi'om  time  immemorial,  as  appears  by  an 
inquisition  before  Eobert  de  Brewes  and  Nicholas  de  Hanlee  by  com* 
mission  of  Henry  III.,  exemplified  by  letters  patent  of  Henry  IV. 


Membrane  3. 

]^ay  20.         Grant,  during  pleasure,  to  William  Eburton  of  the  office  of  usher  and 

Westminster,  crier  of  the  King's  Bench,  with  fees  as  in  the  last  year  of  Edward  III.  and 

the  first  of  Bichard  II.  and  a  livery  of  the  suit  of  yeomen  of  the  household 

at  the  great  wardrobe  yearly  and  at  every  coronation.  By  p.s. 

May  13.  Grant  to  John  Markham,  chief  justice  of  the  King's  Bench,  for  the 
Westminster,  maintenance  of  his  estate  in  his  office,  of  180  marks  yearly  at  the  hands  of 
the  keeper  of  the  hanaper  or  the  customers  in  the  ports  of  London,  Bristol 
and  the  town  of  Kyngeston  on  Hull,  according  to  the  form  of  an  act  in 
Parliament  at  Westminster,  18  Henry  VI.,  and  106s.  \\\d.  and  the  sixth 
part  of  \d.  at  Christmas  for  a  robe  with  fur  for  the  same  (furrura) 
and  66^.  6d,  at  Whitsuntide  for  a  robe  with  lining  for  the  same. 

April  8.  The  like  to  Peter  Ardern,  knight,  chief  baron  of  the  Exchequer,  of  110 

Westminster,   marks  yearly  at  the  Exchequer  and  a  robe  with  fur  (jpelura)  at  Christmas 
and  one  with  lining  at  Whitsuntide. 

May  1 1 .  The  like  to  Robert  Dauby,  chief  justice  of  the  Bench,  of  93/.  6*.  bd.  yearly 
York.  at  the  hands  of  the  keeper  of  the  hanaper  or  the  customers  in  the  ports  of 
London,  Bristol  and  the  town  of  Kyngeston  on  Hull,  according  to  the  form 
of  an  act  in  Parliament  at  Westminster,  18  Henry  VI.,  and  668,  6d.  at 
Whitsuntide  for  a  robe  with  lining,  and  106«.  \\\d.  and  the  sixth  part  of 
\d,  at  Christmas  for  a  robe  with  fur  (furrura), 

Jnly  10.  Appointment,  during  pleasure  of  ifohn  Wenlok,  lord  of  Wenlok,  knight, 

Westminster,  chief  bntler  of  England,  of  John  Clement  as  his  deputy  in  the  port  of 
Brigge water  and  ports  and  places  adjacent,  receiving  the  accustomed  fees. 

By  bill  of  the  chief  butler. 


J  EDWARD  IV.— Pabt  IV.  129 


1461.  Membrane  3 — cont. 

The  like  of  the  foUowiug  in  the  ports  named  :— 
Thomas  Thundre  in  the  port  of  Chichester. 
John  Scot,  knight,  in  the  port  of  Sandwich. 
John  Whiehecote,  esquire,  in  the  port  of  Ejngeston  on  Hnll. 

July  24.  Thomas  Gille  the  younger  in  the  port  of  'Exeiew 

WeitnuDster. 

Nov.  16.  Richard  Perpont  in  the  port  of  Boston. 

Westminster. 

1462. 

Jan.  20.  AJan  Birde  in  the  port  of  Newcastle  on  Tyne. 

Westminst^. 

1461. 

July  15.         Appointment  of  Vincent  Pitelesden  as  receiver  of  all  manors  and  lands 
Westminster,  late  of  James,  earl  of  Wilts,  in  the  counties  of  Wilts,  Dorset,  Somerset  and 
Devon,  so  long  as  they  remain  in  the  king's  bands,  with  the  accustomed  fees, 
accounting  yearly  before  the  auditors  of  the  manors. 

By  bill  of  the  treasurer. 

June  26.         Presentation  of  Master  Roger  Malmesbury,  king's  clerk,  to  the  first 

Westminster,   portion  in  the  church  of  Bisle,  in  the  diocese  of  Worcester,  void  by  the  death 

of  Master  Thomas  Duncan.  By  K. 

July  26.  Grant  for  life  to  Humphrey  Stafford  of  Suthwyk,  knight,  from  Easter 

Westminster,  last,  of  the  offices  of  constable  of  the  castle  of  Bristol  and  the  custody  of  the 
king's  forests  of  Kyngeswode,  co.  Gloucester,  Fylwode,  co.  Somerset,  and 
Gjllynghara,  co.  Dorset,  and  his  park  within  the  latter,  with  the  power  of 
appointing  a  porter  and  two  watchmen  to  wat<;h  by  night  and  day  in  the 
castle  and  all  foresters  and  officers,  with  all  profits  and  emulments^  receiving 
20/.  yearly  for  the  office  of  constable,  2d.  daily  for  the  wages  of  the  porter, 
Sd.  daily  and  ^d,  nightly  for  the  wages  of  two  watchmen,  and  7^d.  daily 
for  the  wages  of  the  foresters  of  Kyngeswode  with  all  others  wages  of 
foresters  from  the  farm  and  issues  of  the  town  of  Bristol,  in  the  pame 
manner  as  Richard  de  Bello  Campo,  late  earl  of  Warwick.  By  p.s. 

July  18.         Licence  for  Hermann  Quadebek,  a  scholar  of  the  university  of  Cambridge 
Westminster,   and  a  native  of  Almain,  to  hold  benefices  in  England.     [Foedera'],     By  p.s. 

July  16.         Ratification  of  the  estate  of  Thomas  Beaugraunt  as  rector  of  the  parish 
Westminster,  church  of  Bury,  in  the  diocese  of  Chichester.  By  p.s. 

July  24.         Appointment  of  Nicholas  Harpisfeld  to  approve  and  demise  at  farm  to  the 

Westminster,  king's  use  all  lands  and  possessions  which  John  Joskyn  had  in  the  county 

of  Hertford,  and  to  receive  all  profits  from  them  irom  Easter  last  and 

account  for  the  same  at  the  Exchequer.  By  bill  of  the  treasurer. 

July  24.  Inspeximus  and  confirmation  of  letters  patent  of  the  king's  &ther,  Richard, 
Westminster,  late  duke  of  York,  dated  at  Chester,  13  September,  1460,  being  a  grant  for 
life  to  John  Sotheworth,  mayor  of  Chester,  of  a  yearly  rent  of  10/.  from 
the  issues  of  his  lordship  of  Dynbiegh,  for  past  service  and  service  to  be 
rendered,  according  to  tlie  form  of  indentures  made  between  the  duke  and 
the  said  John,  to  him  and  his  son  Edward,  earl  of  March. 

For  10«.  paid  in  the  hanaper. 

Mbmbranb  2. 

July  23.  Appointment,  during  good  behaviour,  of  the  king*s  servant  Thomas  Aleyn, 

Westminster,    for  his  good  service  to  the  king's  father  Richard,  duke  of  York,  as  one  of 

the  auditors  of  all  castles,  lordships,  manors  and  lands  belonging  to  the 

duchy  of  Cornwall,  receiving  such  fees  as  Richard  Bedford,  late  one  of  the 

auditors,  had  from  the  issues  of  the  duchy.  By  p.s. 

«    «e»l4,  I 


laO  CALBNDAB  OF  PATENT  BOLLS. 


14gl^  Membrane  2—cont. 

July  25.         G^rant  for  life  to  John  Peesmershe,  esquire,  for  his  good  service  to  thd 

Wevtmioster.   king  and  the  king's  father  and  on  account  of  his  great  age,  of  22 J.  daily 

from  Easter  last  from  the  issues  of  the  county  of  Northumberland,  until  the 

king  grant  him  an  office  or  offices  of  equal  value.  By  p.s. 

July  25.         Grant,  during  pleasure,  to  John  Argent  of  the  office  of  packer  of  woollen 

Westminster,  cloths  in  the  ports  of  Southampton  and  Sandwich,  with  fees  as  in  the 

times  of  Edward  III.  and  Bichard  IL  By  p.8. 

July  16.         Grant  to  the  king's  servant  Richard  Felde  and  his  heirs  of  a  mill  called 

Westminster,  <  Haryottys  Mille '  in  the  parish  of  West  Harpetre  with  all  accastomed 

profits,  rendering  to  the  king  I2d.  yearly.  By  p.8» 

July  9.  Grant  to  the  king's  servant,  Thomas  Burgh,  one  of  the  esquires  of  the 

Westminster,  body,  of  the  office  of  steward  of  all  lordships,  manors,  towns,  sokes,  hundreds 

and  lands  which  Edmund,  late  earl  of  Biehemond,  had  in  the  county  of 

Lincoln,  during  the  minority  of  Henry,  son  and  heir  of  the  latter,  receiving 

the  accustomed  fees.  By  p.8. 

May  23.         Grant  for  12  years  to  William  Hastynges,  knight,  of  the  office  of  master 

York.         and  worker  of  the  king's  mints  within  the  Tower  of  London,  the  realm  of 

England  and  the  town  of  Calais,  according  to  the  form  of  indentures  to  be 

made  between  him  and  the  king,  rendering  nothing  and  receiving  the 

accustomed  profits.  By  p.8. 

July  9.  Grant  for  life  to  Thomas  Burgh,  one  of  the  esquires  of  the  body,  of  the 

Westminster,  office  of  steward  of  the  king's  soke  and  lordships  of  Kirketon  in  Lyndesey, 

CO.  Lincoln,  receiving  6/.  I3s,  4d,  yearly  at  the  hands  of  the  receivers 

bailifi*8,  reeves  or  other  holders.  By  p.s. 

July  18.  Grant  for  life  to  the  king's  kinsman  John  Nevill,  lord  Mountague,  of  the 
Westminster,  subsidy  and  ulnage  of  cloths  for  sale  in  the  counties  of  York  and  Kyngeston 
on  Hull  and  the  city  and  suburbs  of  York  with  the  whole  forfeiture  of  the 
same  and  all  profits  and  emoluments,  and  appointment  of  him  to  measure 
and  seal  the  cloth  before  it  is  exposed  for  sale,  to  search  houses,  shops  and 
other  places  where  cloth  may  be  found  exposed  for  sale  unsealed,  to  seize 
such  cloth  as  forfeited  and  to  execute  the  office,  in  accordance  with  the 
provisions  of  the  grant  to  Edward  [III.]  in  the  great  council  at  Westminster 
and  divers  statutes  and  ordinances  in  Parliament,  17  Bichard  II.,  1  March, 
7  Henry  IV.,  and  11  Henry  VI.  By  K. 

July  12.  Grant,  during  good  behaviour,  to  Henry  Cawode,  king's  servant,  for  his 

Westminster,  good  service  to  the  king  and  his  father,  of  the  office  of  pai'ker  of  Connes* 
burgh,  with  the  accustomed  fees,  in  the  same  manner  as  Thomas  Wesby. 

By  p.s. 

July  4.  General  pardon  to  Peter  de  Viner,  late  of  London  '  taiUoure,'  otherwise 

Westminster.   Peter  Viner,  late  of  London,  Norman.  By  p.8. 

July  8.  Grant,  during  good  behaviour,  to  Master  Henry  Sharp,  doctor  of  laws, 

Westminster,  of  the  office  of  notary  or  prothonotary  of  the  Chancery,  receiving  60  marks 

yearly  from  the  issues  of  the  banaper,  with  all  other  ancient  accustomed 

profits.  By  p.s. 

Membrane  1. 

July  17.         Grant  for  life  to  William  Pecche,  knight,  of  the  office  called  *  sandgill ' 

Westminster,  within  the  king's  lordships  of  Marke  and  Oye,  which  is  to  have  7d.  from 

every  cart  of  merchandise  coming  to  or  going  from  the  town  of  Calais,  with 

such  fees  as  Antony  Delatour,  Lombard,  lately  had  in  the  same  office. 

Vacated  because  elsewhere  on  the  French  Boll,  By  p.s. 

July  24.         Appointment,  during  pleasure,  of  John  Eltonhede  as  auditor  of  all  manors, 

Wc^tmiuster.  lordships  and  lands  within  the  realm  late  of  Edmund,  earl  of  Biehemond, 

receiving  the  accustomed  fees.  By  bill  of  treasurer. 


1  EDWARD  IV.— Pabt  IV,  131 


1461.  •■     '  Membrane  l^-H:ont. 

June  1.  Grant  for  life  to  the  king's  mother  Cicely,  dachess  of  York,  in  full 

'Westminster,  recorapence  of  her  jointure,  to  the  value   of  5,000  marks  yearly,  of  the 

manors    of  Letchelade,    Berdesley,   Brymmesfeld,    Musardere,   Wynston, 
Chorlton,   Doughton   and  Byslegh   with    the    hundred    of    Byslegh,   co. 
Gloucester,  the  manor  and  lordship  of  Sevenhampton,  the  hundred  of  Hieworth 
with  the  horough  of  Hieworth,  the  town  or  borough  of  Cricklade,  the  manor 
of  Chelworth,  the  manor  and  lordship  of  Old  Wotton  with  the  borough  of 
Wotton,  and  the  manors  of  Fastem,  Tokenham,  Compton,  Wynterbourne 
and  Somerford  Caynes,  co,  Wilts,  25/.  12*.  8d,  yearly  from  the  fee  farm 
of  the  town  of  Andever,  and  the  manors  of  Hokemortymer  and  Worthy- 
mortymer,  co.  Southampton,  the  manor  and  lordship  of  Neubury  with  the 
borough  of  Neubury,  the  manor  of  Wokefeld,  and  the  manor  and  lordship 
of  Stratfeld  Mortymer,  co.  Berks,  the  manor  and  hundred  of  Pymperne,  the 
manor  of  Tarent  Goundevile,  the  town  or  township  of  Waymouth,  a  tenement 
called  •  Helwell,*  the  manors  of  Stuple  and  Criche,  the  hundreds  of  Rough- 
burgh,  Russhemore  and  Hasellore  with  courts  and  perquisites  of  courts, 
the  manor  and  town  of  Wike,  the  manor  and  island  of  Portelond,  the  manors 
of  Mershewode  and  Gussecho  Bowne,  and  the  manor  and  lordship  of  Ware- 
ham  with  the  town  of  Wareham,  co.  Dorset,  the  maaor  of  Odecombe,  the 
manor  of  Milverton  with  the  borough  of  Milverton,  and  the  castle  of  Bruge- 
water  and  the  manor  of  Ileygrove  with  the  borough  of  Brugewater,  co. 
Somerset,  the  manor  of  Whaddon  Nasshe  with  the  chase  of  Whaddon,  the 
manor  of  Steple   Claydon,  the   manor  of  Wendover   called  *Wendover 
Foreyn '  with  the  borough  of  Wendover,  and  the  manors  of    Salden  and 
Boerton,  co.  Buckingham,  the  manor  of  Fynner,  co.  Oxford,  the  manor  and 
lordship  of  Huchen  and  the  manors  of  Ansty,  Staundon,  and  Popsale,  co. 
Hertford,  the  castle  and  manor  of  Fodrynghay  and  the  manors  of  Nassyng- 
ton,  Yerwell  and  Upton,  co.  Northampton,  the  castle,  town  and  manor  of 
Staumford,  the  manor  and  lordship  of  Depyng,  11/.  6*.  9Jr/.  yearly  from  the 
fee  farm  of  West  Depyng,  the  manors  and  lordships  of  Kelby  and  Grantham, 
and  an  inn  called   *le   George'   in   Grantham,   co.   Lincoln,   the  manors 
and  lordships  of  Great  Wakyngham,  Little  Walsyngham  and  Bircham,  co. 
Norfolk,  the  castle,  manor,  lordship  and  honour  of  Clare  with  the  borough 
of  Clare  with  appurtenances   in  the  counties  of  Suffolk,  Essex,  Norfolk, 
Hertford  and    Cambridge    and   other  counties,   the    manors   of   Erbury 
and  Honden,  co.  Suffolk,  the  manors  and  lordships  of  Latcheley,  Clarethall, 
Berdesfeld  and  Thaxsted,  with  the  borouglis  of  Berdesfeld  and  Thaxsted, 
CO.  Essex,  the  town  of  Sudbury,  co.  Suffolk,  the  manor  of  Wodhall  and  a 
third  part  of  the  manor  of  Leyham,  co.  Essex,  the  manor  of   South- 
frith    with    the    wood  and    park    there   and    the    manors    of  Depford, 
Stroude,  Erith,  Tonge,  Swannescombe,  Kyngeadown  and  ShiUyngeld,  co. 
Kent,  the  manors  of  Purbryght,  Shii^e  and  Drayton ;  4/.  17 s,  4d.  yearly  from 
the  fee  farm  of  the  city  of  Chichester,  co.  Sussex,  13/.  rent  in  Bottesham, 
CO.  Cambridge,  and  the'courts  and  leets  of  the  honour  of  Gloucester  with 
their  perquisites  in  Bottesham,  Royston,  Litlyngton,   Moredon,   Malrede, 
Thadlowe,  Abyndon,  Arnyngton,  Harleton  and  Tof^  co.  Cambridge,  with 
the  fees  and  parts  of  fees  late  of  the  king's  father,  Richard,  duke  of  York, 
there  and  elsewhere  in  that  county,  the  leets  and  courts  of  Wolley  and 
Grandysdon,  co.  Huntingdon,  with  their  perquisites,  the  manors  of  Brym- 
mesgrove,  Kyngesnorton  and  Clyfton,  70/.  lis.  lOd.  yearly  from  the  fee  farm 
of  the  town  of  Wyche,  and  the  manor  of  Odyngley,  co.  Worcester,  an 
inn  or  tenement  called  ^  Baynardescastell  *  in  London,  400/.  yearly  from 
the  customs  of  wools,  hides  and  wool-fells  in  the  port  of  Eyngeston  on  Hull, 
28d/.  6*.  Sd,  from  the  like  customs  in  the  port  of  London,  100/.  yearly  from 
the  issues  of  the  county  of  York,  the  manors  and  lordships  of  Mawardyn 
and  Marcle,  co.  Hereford,  and  50  marks  yearly  from  the  issues  of  the  forests 
of  Exmore,  Rachiche  and  Mynedepp,  cos.  Somerset  and  Devon,  from  80 
December  last,  on  which  da^  the  said  duke  died,  with  knights'  feeS| 

l2 


132  CALENDAR  OF  PATENT  ROLLS, 


1461*  Membrane  1— con^« 

advowflonB,  wards,  marriages,  eBcheats,  views  of  frank-pledge,  courts,  woods, 
parks,  warreoB,  chaces,  fairs,  marketSf  fisheries,  liberties,  wreck  of  sea 
and  other  appurtenances.  By  K. 

Julj  22.  Grant  for  life  to  John  Rede  of  lOOff.  yearly  from  Michaelmas  last  from 

Westminster,  the  fee  farm  of  the  city  or  town  of  Rochester,  co.  Kent.  By  p.s, 

-i^o  Mbmbranb  22d, 

Feb.  28.         Commission  to  John  Hudylston,  knight,  Richard  Musgrave,  knight, 

Westminster.  Richard  Salkelt,  Roland  Vaux,  William  Par  and  John  Par  to  arrest  and 

imprison  persons  going  about  inciting  to  insurrection  and  uttering  seditious 

speeches  in  the  counties  of  Northumberland,  Camberlandand  Westmoreland. 

Feb.  28.      .  Commission  to  the  sheriff  and  others  to  array  all  able-bodied  men  in  the 
Wcetminster.  county  of  Kent  against  Heory  VI,  and  the  king's  enemies,    [Appendix^ 
No.  3.] 

Mbmbranb  I8d. 

March  3.         Commission  to  John  Bemers  of  Berners,  knight,  to  take  into  the  king's 
Westminster,  hands  the  manors  of  Belynges,  Newton  in  Swyllond  and  Westterfeld  and 

a  close  called  Chasfeld  in  Cbasfeld,  co.  Suffolk,  late  of  Thomas  Tudenham, 

knight,  a  rebel. 

March  1.         Commission  to  Walter  Devereux  of  Ferrers  and  William  Herbert  of 
Westmhister.  Herbert,  knights,  to  array  all  able-bodied  men  in  South  Wales  and  the 
marches  against  Henry  YI.  and  the  king's  enemies. 

Mbmbranb  I7d. 

March  1.  Commission  to  Th.,  archbishop  of  Canterbury,  J.,  bishop  of  Rochester, 
Westminster.  John  Fogge,  knight,  John  Scot,  knight,  John  Clerk,  John  Gildeford, 
John  Bamme,  John  Rowe  and  the  sheriff  of  Kent  to  enquire  into  all 
trespasses  and  extortions  committed  against  Thomas  Ussher  of  Cleve 
and  other  subjects  of  the  king  of  that  county  by  Edward  Broke  of 
Cobham,  knight)  and  his  servants. 

Mbmbranb  I5d. 

Feb.  10.         Commission  of  oyer  and  terminer  to  John  Stourton  of  Stourton,  knight, 
Westminster*   John  Stafford  of  Suthwyk,  knight,  Nicholas  Aysshton,  Walter  Moile,  John 
Whitokesmede,  George  Darell,  John  Hall  and  Richard  Freman  touching 
certein  treasons  and  felonies  in  the  county  of  Wilts. 


Mbmbranb  lid. 

Feb.  12.  Commission  of  oyer  and  terminer  to  John,  duke  of  Norfolk,  John,  duke 
Westminster,  of  Suffolk,  Richard,  earl  of  Warwick,  William,  earl  of  Arundel,  Henry, 
earl  of  Essex,  and  William,  earl  of  Kent,  king's  kinsmen,  and  Ralph 
Greystok  of  Greystok,  Edmund  Grey  of  Ruthyn,  John  Clynton  of  Clynton, 
knights,  John  Audeley  of  Audeley,  and  Edwurd  Nevill  of  Bergevenny, 
Jolm  Lescrop  of  Bolton,  Richard  West  de  la  Warre,  Edward  Broke  of 
Cobham,  John  Stourton  of  Stonrton,  John  Neyyll  of  Montague,  William 
Hastynges  of  Hastynges,  John  Wenlok  of  Wenlok,  Humphrey  Stafford  of 
Suthewyk,  Walter  Devereux  of  Ferrers,  William  Herbert  of  Herbert,  John 
Markham,  Robert  Danby,  Peter  Ardem  and  William  Telverton,  knights, 


1  EDWARD  IV.— Part  IV,  133 


1462.  Metnbrane  14c?— «on^. 

Richard  Byngbam,  Nicholas  Ayssheton,  Robert  Danvers,  Walter  Moile^ 
John  Nedeham  and  Richard  Cbok  touching  all  trespasses  and  treasons 
as  well  at  the  suit  of  the  king  as  of  others  in  the  counties  of  Essex,  Hertford, 
Cambridge,  Huntingdon,  Norfolk,  Suffolk,  Lincoln,  York,  Northumberland, 
Westmoreland,  Cumberland,  Nottingham,  Derby,  Northampton,  Warwick, 
Leicester^  Oxford,  Berks,  Bedford,  Buckingham,  Stafford,  Worcester, 
Gloucester,  Hereford  and  Salop,  the  cities  of  York,  Lincoln,  Coventiy 
and  Norwich,  and  the  towns  of  Newcastle  on  Tyne,  Kyngeston  on  Hull, 
Notyngham  and  Bristol  and  their  liberties.  By  K. 

The  like,  at  the  suit  of  the  king  only. 


Mbmbxlass  13i. 

Feb.  16.         Commission  to  iThomas  Osbern,  one  of  the  king's  serjeanta  at  armSf 
Wettmiuster.  Ralph  Tykell  and  Christopher  Ambrose  to  arrest  Edward  Cateyn  and 
bring  him  before  the  king  in' Chancery. 

1461. 

June  18.  Commission  to  Richard  Skropp,  chancellor  of  the  university  of  Cam- 
Westminster,  bridge,  William  Seyntgeorge,  knight,  John  Cheyne,  esquire,  William 
HasUdeo,  Richard  Hatfeld,  John  Ansty,  William  Alyngton  and  Thomas 
Hayrman  to  enquire  into  the  narrowing  and  obstruction  of  the  river 
running  under  the  great  bridge  of  the  town  of  Cambridge,  whereby 
the  bridge  has  been  broken  down,  and  to  cause  the  bridge  to  be  repaired 
bj  the  proper  persons. 


MsMBJUKS  lOd* 

Dec.  15.  Commission  to  Edward  Nevill  of  Bergevenny,  William  Fenya  of  Say 
Wefiminster  of  Seell,  Edward  Broke  of  Cobham  and  John  Scotte,  knights,  William 
Laken,  Nicholas  Sibill,  Thomas  Balard,  John  Roo  and  the  sheriff  of  Kent 
to  enquire  into  certain  eictortions  and  oppressions  committed  in  that 
county  by  William  Isle  of  Sundrisse,  co.  Kent,  esquire,  Robert  Drilond 
of  Sellyng,  co.  Kent,  'gentilman,'  John  Stokton  of  Sundrissh,  oo.  Kent, 
*  yoman,'  lliomas  ChiUescombe  of  Sundrissh, '  gentilman,'  William  Amewe 
of  Sundrissh,  clerk,  and  Richard  William  of  Chevenyng,  co.  Kent,  derk. 

Dec.  19.  The  like  to  the  king's  kinsman  John,  earl  of  Worcester,  James,  abbot 
Westminster,  of  St.  Augustine  by  Canterbuiy,  Thomas,  prior  of  Christ  Church,  Canter- 
bury, William  Bygge,  mayor  of  Canterbury,  William  Haute  the  elder, 
esquire,  John  Oxenden,  Thomas  Marescall  and  the  sheriff  of  Kent  to 
enquire  into  divers  alleged  trespasses,  extortions  and  oppressions  by 
Nicholas  Aleyn,  late  of  Sturrey,  co.  Kent,  *  yoman.* 

1462. 

Feb.  11.  Commission  to  William  Cayleway,  John  More  and  John  Battescombe 
Westminster,  to  enquire  into  the  tenure  of  a  moiety  of  the  manor  of  Whitwell  in 
Kyngeston  Wynterborn,  co.  Dorset.  It  was  found  by  an  inquisition  taken 
at  Brode  Wyndesore,  co.  Dorset,  on  Monday,  26  October,  before  Thomas 
Gylle,  esquire,  then  escheator,  that  Thomas  Sterne  held  the  said  moiety 
on  3  July,  the  day  of  his  death,  in  his  demesne  as  of  fee  in  socage, 
rendering  to  the  king  40«.  yearly,  and  that  his  brother  Henry  Sterne,  then 
of  the  age  of  12  years,  was  iiis  heir ;  but  the  king  is  now  given  to  understand 
tliat  he  held  it  in  chief  by  knight  service  and  not  in  socage. 

Fragment  of  a  commission  to  Robert  Danby,  knight,  Peter  Ardem, 
knight,  Robert  Danvers,  John  Cheyne,  knight,  William  Lacon,  Thomaa 
Gyfford*  John  Breback,  esquire^  and  Thomas  Sokes,  eequire. 


134  CALENDAE  OF  PATENT  EOLtS. 


•tAQO  MSMBRANS  9d. 

Feb.  19.         Commission  to  Henry  Brook  to  enquire  touching  the  use  of  false  Weights 

Westminster,  and  measures  throughout  the  realm  and  to    arrest   and   imprison    any 

offenders,  and  to  certify  the  treasurer  and  barons  of  the  Exchequer  fi*om 

time  to  time  of  the  names  of  the  persons  found  guilty  and  of  the  fines  imposed 

upon  them. 

Feb.  15.  Commission  to  John  Lescrop  of  Bolton,  knight,  Roger  Chamberleyn, 
Westminster,  knight,  Ralph  Cressener,  Thomas  Stutevyle,  William  Geddyng  and  John 
Smyth  to  enquire  into  the  complaint  of  Henry  earl  of  Essex,  John 
Doreward,  esquire,  William  Mulsoo,  esquire,  and  Thomas  Barnard,  esquire, 
that,  whereas  they  were  lately  seised  of  the  manor  of  Greys  in  Caundysshe, 
CO.  Suffolk,  in  Uieir  demesne  as  of  fee  in  time  of  peace  in  the  time  of 
Henry  VI.  and  received  the  esplees  thereof,  they  were  unjustly  disseised 
by  the  king's  father  Richard,  late  duke  of  York,  after  the  first  transfretation 
into  Gascony  of  Kiug  Henry  son  of  King  John.  By  K. 

Feb.  27.  Commission  to  Richard  Byngham  the  elder,  Walter  Blount,  knight, 
Westminster.  Henry  Pierpount,  Richard  Wyloughby,  Richard  Byngham  the  younger, 
and  the  sheriff  of  Nottingham  and  Derby  to  arrest  Ranulph  Rye,  *  gentilman,' 
Robert  Johnson,  *  yoman,'  Robert  Clerk,  *  flecker,*  Henry  Clerk, '  flecher,' 
and  William  Cole,  *flecher,'  all  late  of  Maunsfeld  in  Shirwode,  co.  Nottingham, 
John  Plummer  late  of  Worsop,  co.  Nottingham,  *  plummer,*  William  Barley 
otherwise  Barlowe  otherwise  Strotte,  *  sithesmyth,'  John  Thorp,  *  husbond- 
man,'  and  William  Wyrall,  *  sithesmyth,'  all  late  of  Horsley,  co.  Derby,  and 
Richard  Heloughby  late  of  Maunsfeld,  ^  husbondman,'  who  have  conmiitted 
divers  depredations  in  those  counties,  and  bring  them  before  the  king  and 
council. 

\AQ\  MnMBRAlfB  Set* 

July  20.  Commission  to  William  Hastynges  of  HdStynged,  knight^  Ralph 
Westminster.  Hastynges,  esquire,  John  Don,  esquire,  Thomas  Wake,  esquire,  Walter 
Mauntell,  esquire,  William  Stephyns  and  John  Gefferon  to  take  into  the 
king's  haads  all  lands  and  other  possessions  late  of  Thomas  Thorp,  knight, 
in  Bernewell,  co.  Northampton,  and  of  Thomas  Tresham,  knight,  in  the 
counties  of  Northampton  and  Buckingham,  so  that  the  king  may  be 
answered  for  the  issues  of  the  same  at  the  hands  of  the  said  John  Don. 

ByK. 

July  20.  Commission  of  the  peace  at  the  request  of  W.  archbishop  of  York, 
Westminster,  who  has  the  peace  there,  to  William  Eland,  John  Holme  and  Alexander 
Crake  within  the  franchises  and  liberties  of  Beverley  and  Ripon,  pursuant 
to  the  statutes  and  ordinances  of  Winchester,  Northampton,  and  Westminster, 
ihe  statutes  and  ordinances  there  and  at  Cambridge  touching  ^  travelyngmen,' 
the  statutes  and  ordinances  at  Westminster,  1  and  2  Henry  IV.,  another 
statute  at  Leicester  against  Lollards,  Henry  Y.,  another  statute  in  the  time 
of  the  same  king  at  Westminster  of  counterfeiting  money,  and  all  other 
statutes  and  ordinances  touching  the  peace. 


MsdiBAAN^  Id. 

July  24.  Commissioti  to  John  Audeley  of  Audeley,  William  iBotrcttUi,  knight^ 
Westminster.  John  Stourton  of  Stourton,  knight,  Humphrey  Stafford  of  Suthwyk,  knight, 
Thomas  Seymour,  knight,  Richard  Chokke,  John  Cheyny  of  Pynne,  Robert 
Warre,  John  Sydenham  the  elder^  Robert  Stowdl,  John  Fitz  James,  John 
Sydenham  the  younger  and  the  sheriff  of  Somerset  and  Dorset  to  enquire 
into  all  riots,  offences  and  trespasses  against  Thomas  Gille  the  younger, 
escheator  in  those  countiesi  and  all  other  felonies  and  insurrections  com- 


t  £:t)WAttD  iVw— PiBT  IV.  ii& 


l46l.  Membrane  Td^^'Cont* 

mitted  bj  John  Ajsshe  otherwise  Boleyn  of  Mertok,  co.  Somerset, 
'fisshiouter/  John.Aysshe  otherwise  Boleyn  otherwise  Cokkes  Jak  the 
elder,  *bocher,'  John  Aysshe  otherwise  Boleyn  the  younger,  *bocher,' 
and  John  Aysshe  otherwise  Boleyn  otherwise  Courte,  ^  frankelyn/  late 
of  Melton  Faucomberge,  co.  Somerset,  Thomas  Gryffyn  otherwise  Griffith 
late  of  [Stoke  under  Hamden,  co.  Somerset,  ^  yoman,'  John  Sherlok,  late  of 
Bourhenton,  co.  Somerset,  *  husbondman,'  Thomas  Sherlok,  late  of  the  same, 
'yoman,'  and  John  Taillour,  late  of  the  same,  ' husbondman,'  Thomas 
Tylard,  late  of  Stapulton,  co.  Somerset,  *  fisshiouter,'  John  Petewyn,  late 
of  Mertok«  co.  Somerset,  drover,  and  John  Wydecombe  the  younger,  late 
of  the  same,  ^  yoman,'  Thomas  Greke  late  of  Crukern,  co.  Somerset, 
'  husbondman,'  and  others,  and  to  arrest  and  imprison  all  whom  they  may 
find  guilty. 

Mbmbhanb  6d» 

July  20.        Commission  to  Walter  Blount,  knight,  John  Gresley,  knight,  Williani 
,We8tmiD8ter.  Blount,  William  Basset,  John  Pole,  Nicholas  Fitz  Herbert,  John  Curson, 

Nicholas  Eneveton  and  the  sheriff  of  Derby  to  arrest  John  Vernon,  esquire, 
and  bring  him  before  the  king  and  council. 

July  18.  The  like  to  Simon  Hareby  and  Leonard  Thornburgh,  esquires,  and  the 
Westimnster.  sheriff  of  Lincoln  to  arrest  William  Tolus,  clerk,  Henry  Shipton,  *  yoman,' 
John  Marley, '  yoman,*  John  Gye,  '  yoman,'  Ralph  Madyson,  Bichard  Gylle, 
Thomas  Lednam,  Robert  Hawdale,  Robert  Palmer,  Robert  Heryng,  Robert 
Tye,  Henry  Wodman,  Robert  Beke,  Walter  Bardney,  William  Cowper, 
John  Drayton,  Thomas  Pyge,  '  gentilman,'  and  Henry  Launde,  clerk,  and 
bring  them  before  the  king  in  Chancery. 

July  13.  Commission  to  William  Chamberleyn,  knight,  Gilbert  Debenham,  John 
Westminster.  Tymperley,  Richard  Suthwell  and  William  Harleston,  esquires,  John 
Fyncheham,  George  Wiseman,  esquire,  John  Twyer,  esqilkire,  Richard 
Rokwod,  esquire,  and  the  escheator  in  the  county  of  Norfolk  to  take  into 
the  king's  hands  the  castle  of  Bokenham,  the  manors  of  Old  Bokenham, 
New  Bokenham,  Tybenham,  Bokenham  Lathys  and  two  parts  of  the  manor 
of  Gtyshaght  in  the  town  of  Wymondham,  co.  Norfolk,  and  to  remove  John 
Xny vet  and  William  Kny vet,  esquires,  and  their  adherents,  from  the  posses* 
sion  of  the  same.  It  was  found  by  an  inquisition  taken  at  Bedyngham, 
CO.  Norfolk,  on  Thursday  before  All  Saints,  39  Henry  VI,  before  Richard 
Southwell,  late  escheator,  that  Richard,  earl  of  Salisbury,  John  Fray, 
knight,  and  Richard  Ryche  were  seised  in  their  demesne  as  of  fee  of  the 
above  and  granted  them  to  Alice,  late  the  wife  of  Andrew  Ogard,  knight, 
for  her  life  without  impeachment  of  waste,  and  she  was  seised  of  them  on 
the  day  of  her  death,  and  that  they  were  held  in  chief  by  the  service  of 
being  butler  of  the  king  at  his  coronation ;  but  although  they  were  taken 
into  the  king's  hands  by  virtue  of  the  said  inquisition,  the  said  John  and 
William  Sjiyvet  entered  into  and  occupied  them  on  17  November  last. 

June  24.        Commission  to  John^  duke  of  Norfolk,  and  William,  6arl  o{  Afundel,  the 
Westminster,  king's  kinsmen,  and  John   Audeley  of  Audeley  to  arrest  and  imprison 
certain  evildoers  wandering  about  in  the  county  of  Sussex  committing 
depredations,  entering  parks  and  warrens  and  hunting  doer. 


136 


1  EDWARD  IV.— Part  V. 


]^4g2.  Mbubrasb  25< 

Feb.  6.  Ifupejcimus  and  confirmation  to  the  abbot  and  convent  of  Tycbefeld  of 

Westminster,    the  following  :— 

1.  A  cEarter  dated  31  August,  16  Henry  III.  ICharter  Roll^  15 
Hetvry  IT  I.  m,  2],  being  a  confirmation  of  a  grant  in  frank  almoin  by 
Master  Humphrey  de  Millers  to  Peter,  bishop  of  Winchester,  of  land 
and  rent  in  Swanewik  and  Porecestre. 

2.  A  charter  dated  20  September,  16  Henry  III.  [^Monastic(m\  being 
a  grant  to  the  abbot  and  convent  of  divers  lands  and  liberties. 

For  13«.  4c?.  paid  in  the  hanaper. 

Feb.  8.  Inspexivius  and  confirmation  of  letters  patent  of  the  king's  kinsman 

Westminster.  Humphrey,  late  duke  of  Gloucester,  earl  of  Pembroke  and  great  chamberlain 
of  England,  dated  at  his  manor  of  Plaisance,  7  January,  23  Henry  VI., 
being  a  grant  for  life  to  his  servitor  Henry  Habyndon  of  a  rent  of  8/.  yearly 
from  the  issues  and  profits  of  Hadley  Bee  and  Legh  Bee,  co.  Essex, 
provided  that  in  the  duke's  lifetime  he  did  not  enter  the  service  of  any 
other.  By  p.s.  and  for  \  mark  paid  in  the  hanaper. 

1461. 

Nov.  23.  tiispeximus  and  confirmation  to  the  church  of  St.  Nicholas,  Spaldioges, 
Westminster,  the  abbot  of  St.  Nicholas,  Angers,  and  the  prior  of  Spaldinges  of  letters 
patent  dated  3  December,  4  Bichard  II.,  inspecting  and  confirming  a  charter 
dated  at  Cha^gny  (Chaangn*)^  24  January,  10  Bichard  L,  renewing  one  of 
14  November  in  his  first  year,  restoring  to  them  the  towns  of  Spaldinges 
and  Pincebec  which  Henry  I.  had  afforested. 

For  ^  mark  paid  in  the  hanaper. 

Mbmmrass  24  ANI>  23. 

Bee.  10.         Inspeximm  and  confirmation  to  William  Sutton,  knight,  master  of  Burton 
Westminster.  St.  Lazarus  of  Jerusalem  in  England  and  proctor  of  the  order  in  England 
and  warden  of  the  hospital  of  St.  Giles  without  London,  and  the  lepers  and 
brethren  of  the  following : — 

1.  Letters  patent  dated  15  February,  2  [Henry  IV.],  inspecting  and 

confirming  to  Walter  do  Lynton,  then  master,  and  the  lepers  and 
•  brethren  letters  patent  dated  1  December,  2  Bichard  TL,  inspecting 
and  confirming  to  Nicholas  de  Dovourre,  then  master,  and  the  lepers 
and  brethren  the  following : — 

(1.)  A  charter  dated  22  February,  2  Edward  III.,  inspecting  and 
confirming  the  following  :— 

a.  A  charter  of  Henry  II.  dated  at  Clippeston.   \^M(ma8ticonJ\ 
&.  A  charter  of  Henry  II.  dated  at  Norhampton. 

c.  A  charter  dated  26  March,  1 3  Henry  III.  [  Charter  Rollf 

13  Henri/  ///.,  m.  8]. 

d.  A  quit  claim  by  Edmund  son  of  king  Henry  to  the  lepers 

and  biiethren  and  Bobert  de  Daleby,  then  master  of  the 
advowson  of  the  church  of  Spondon,  co.  Derby. 
(2.)  Letters  patent  dated  10  March,  18  Edward  III.  [Monasiicon.^ 

2.  A   charter    dated    30  November,   4  Edward   III.    [Charter  R0II9 

4  Edward  III,,  No.  26],  inspecting  and  confirming  the  following  :— 
(1.)  A  charter  of  Henry  II.  to  the  said  hospital  of  SI.  Giles, 
[Monastican.'] 


1  EDWARD  IV.— Pakt  V.  13^ 


X461.  Membrane  24  and  23— ><;o»^ 

(2.)  Letters  patent  of  protection  of  Henry  II.  to  the  same,  dated 

at  Windsor. 

3.  Letters  patent  dated  4  April,  27  Edward  I.,  being  a  grant  to  the 

master  of  Burton  St  Lazams  of  the  custody  of  the  said  hospital 

of  St.  Giles.    [Monoitican,]  For  26;.  8J.  paid  in  the  hanaper. 


1462. 


MsMBRANS  23— con^. 


March  1.        Inspeximus  and  confirmation  to  the  burgesses  of  the  town  of  Malmesbury 

Westmlnstep.  (Medulfuensis)  o£  a  charter  dated  2  July,  12  Henry  IV.  [Charier  Roll^ 

12   Henry  /F.,  No.  I]  inspecting  and  confirming  letters  patent  dated 

28  November,  5  Richara  II.,  inspecting  and  confirming  a  charter  of  king 

Athelstan,  being  a  grant  to  them  of  divers  liberties. 

For  5  marks  paid  in  the  hanapef. 

Feb.  1.  Grant  for  life  to  the  king's  servants  Alvred  Combourgh  and  John  Fereby, 

Westminster,  yeoman  of  the  crown,  of  the  custody  of  the  king's  stank  or  water  of  Fosse 

near  York  from  4  March  last  with  all  profits  as  in  the  time  of  Edward  HI. 

and  Richard  H.  and  with  the  accustomed  fees  from  the  issues  of  the  county 

of  York.  By  p.s. 

Jan.  12.         The  like  to  Oeofirey  Ferrour  of  the  ofiice  of  the  custody  of  the  *  ferie '  of 
Westminster.  Portaythoye  in  North  Wales  with  the  accustomed  fees.  By  p.s. 

1461. 

Dec.  3.  The  like  to  the  king's  servant  Thomas  Colte,  for  his  good  service  to  the 

Westminster,  king  and  his  father  Richard,  late  duke  of  York,  in  England  and  Irehind,  of 

the  custody  or  the  ofiGice  of  keeper  of  the  hanaper  of  the  Chancery^  with  the 

accustomed  fees.  By  K. 

1462. 

Feb.  8.  Letters  of  licence  for  the  snb-prior  and  convent  of  Montacute,  in  the 

Westminster,  diocese  of  Bath  and  Wells,  to  elect  a  prior  in  the  pkce  of  Dan  Robert 
Neweton,  resigned. 

Feb.  10.         Grant  for  life  to  Robert  Wenyngton  of  Dertmouth  of  10/.  yearly  from 

Westminster.  Michaelmas  last  from  the  customs  and  subsidies  in  the  ports  of  Exeter  and 

Dertmouth.  By  p.s« 

^  Feb.  10.         The  like  to  Peter  Ardern,  knight,  chief  baron  of  the  Exchequer,  of  a 

Westmintter.  tun  of  Gascon  wine  yearly  at  Easter  from  the  king's  prises  in  the  port  of 

London.  By  K. 

146L 

Sept.  27.        The  like  to  John  Herlewyn,  esquire,  of  the  ofBce  of  keeper  of  the  king's 
Westminster,  forest  of  Whitelwode,  00.  Northampton,  with  the  accustomed  fees^    By  p.s. 

July  10.         Grant  and  confirmation  in  frank  almoin  to  William,  tlie  abbot,  and  the 

Westminster,   convent  of  Notteley,  co.  Buckingham,  of  the  priory  of  Chetwode,  and  the 

site  thereof,  co.  Buckingham,  and  all  manors,  lordships  and  lands  belonging 

to  it,  with  knights'  fees,  advowsons  and  other  appurtenances.   [MoneutUxm^ 

By  p.8.  and  for  40s,  paid  in  the  hanaper. 

1462. 

Jan.  27.         Grant  in  mortmain  to  the  abbot  and  convent  ox  Croylande,  co.  Lincoln, 

Westmhister.  of  all  fines  for  trespasses  and  amercements  from  tenants  and  residents  in 

the  town  6t  Croylande,  and  of  the  return  of  writs  within  the  town.     \cf. 

Afonasticonf  tt.,  123.]  By  p.s. 

At SM BRASS  22  AND  21. 

Feb.  6.  Edward  IlL  by  letters  patent  at  Westminster  dated  6  March,  2o  Edirard 

Westminster.  III.,  created  John  de  Qandavo  earl  of  Richmond,  and  invested  him  with  the 

eai'ldom  of  Bychemond  and,  with  the  assent  of  the  Parliament  atWestminsteri 


138 


CALENDAR  OF  PATENT  IIOLLS. 


J4Q2.  Membrane  22  and  21'^^cont. 

granted  to  him  the  earldom  and  thehonour)  castles,  manors  and  lands  belong- 
ing thereto  in  tail  with  all  liberties  and  prerogatives  which  John  duke  of 
Brittany  and  earl  of  Bichmond  had  in  these,  with  knights'  fees,  advowsons,  &c 
and  he  was  seised  of  the  same  in  fee  tail  and  especially  amongst  other  things 
of  the  lordship,  honor  and  rape  of  Hastjnges,  eo.  Sussex,  as  parcel  of  the 
earldom,  the  reversion  in  this  case  being  reserved  to  the  king.  Atter  his 
death,  the  earldom,  honour,  castles,  manors  and  lands  descended  to  his  son 
Henry  IV.,  who  by  letters  patent  dated  20  October,  1  Henry  IV.,  granted 
the  same  to  his  brother  Balph  de  Nevill,  earl  of  Westmoreland,  for  life* 
Afterwards  Henry  IV.  granted  the  manors  of  Crowehurst,  Burwasshe 
and  Bevylham  with  the  rape  of  Hastynges,  co.  Sussex,  which  then  were 
parcel  of  the  said  castle,  earldom,  honor  and  lordship,  to  John  Felham, 
knight,  in  fee  simple  by  letters  patent  dated  21  November,  14  Henry  IV. ; 
and  the  latter  entered  into  them  on  the  death  of  the  said  earl  and  granted 
them  to  John  Pelham,  knight,  his  son,  and  his  heirs  and  assigns,  who 
granted  them  to  Thomas  Hoo,  esquire,  Nicholas  Husee,  ;esquire,  Thomas 
Hanwell,  clerk,  John  Gaynesford,  esquire,  William  Gaynesford,  John 
Michelgrove,  esquire,  William  Thwaytes,  Henry  Pole,  citizen  and  goldsmith 
of  London,  Thomas  Hertley,  clerk,  and  John  Wodye  to  the  use  of  the  said 
Thomas  Hoo  hy  the  names  of  the  lordship,  barony,  honour  and  rape  of 
Hastynges,  co.  Sussex,  with  hundreds,  wapentakes,  views  of  frank  pledge, 
leets  and  courts,  suits  of  court,  knights'  fees,  offices,  advowsoDS,  the  rents  or 
services  called  'castleward,  blaunch  ferme,  hundi*edsilver,  justiceyeld, 
comen  fyne,'  and  other  rents  and  services,  wards,  marriages,  reliefe,  escheats, 
parks,  warrens,  wreck  of  sea,  wayf,  strayfT,  deodands,  tolls,  chattels  of  felons 
and  of  felons  of  themselves,  fairs,  markets,  and  other  liberties,  sheriff's 
toum  yearly  at  Derfold,  return  of  writs,  fines,  issues  and  amercements,  as 
fully  as  John  duke  of  Brittany  held  the  same  (except  the  manors  of  Crowe- 
hurst, Bun^'asshe,  and  Bevillam,  and  parks  of  Crowehurst  and  Dudeweil  with 
the  advowson  and  knights'  fees  pertaining  to  these  manors  as  being  sometime 
knighf  s  fees  of  Balph  Scoteney),  with  forest  or  chaoe  of  Dalyngton,  the 
hundreds  of  Baldeslowe,  Haukesbergh  and  Shoesewell,  a  rent  of  14^.  Sd, 
called  '  comen  fyne '  within  these  manors,  and  all  other  liberties.  The  said 
John  Gaynesford,  John  Michel^owe  and  William  Thwaytes  died,  and  the 
survivors  granted  the  same  to  William  Hastynges,  king's  knight  and  cham- 
berlain, by  the  name  of  William  Haslynges,  lord  of  Hastynges,  king's  knight 
and  chamberlain,  in  fee  simple. 

The  king  confirms  in  fee  simple  to  the  said  William  Hastynges  the  castle^ 
lordship,  barony  and  honour  of  Hastynges,  the  manors  of  Crowehurst, 
Burwayssh  and  Bevylham,  the  hundreds  of  Balslowe,  Haukesbergh  and 
Shosewell,  and  further  grants  to  him  the  advowsons  of  the  deanery  and 
prebends  of  the  college  or  free  chapel  within  the  said  castle  and  the  churches 
of  St.  Clement  and  All  Saints,  Hastynges,  and  St.  George,  Brede,  and  of 
the  churches  St.  Thomas  the  Martyr,  St.  Giles  and  St.  Leonard  at  and  within 
the  town  of  Wynchelsee,  sheriffs'  turns  held  yearly  at  Derfold,  return 
of  writs,  wreck  of  sea  and  numerous  other  specified  rights.  By  p.s« 


1461. 

{ Aug.  9. 
!  Windsor^ 


Aug.  10. 
Windsor. 


MsMBnAHB  21-^on^. 

Appointment  for  life  of  the  king's  servant  John  Skelton,  esquire,  to  the 
custody  of  the  king's  castle,  manor  or  lordship  of  Hadieigh  otherwise 
Hadley  from  Michaelmas  last,  rendering  to  the  king  14/.  yearly,  as  Henrys 
duke  of  Exeter,  did  to  Henry  VI.,  and  in  addition  40*.  yearly  of  increment. 

ByK. 

Grant  for  life  to  the  said  John  of  the  office  of  constable  of  the  castle  or 
lordship  of  Hadieigh,  co.  Essex,  with  fees  as  in  the  times  of  Edward  III« 
and  Richard  IL  from  the  issues  of  the  same.  By  Ki 


i  EDWARD  IV.— Pabt  V.  130 


1462.  Membrane  21 — coni, 

Jan.  20.         The  like  to  Nicholas  Baker  of  the  manor  of  Belyngton,  co.  Somerset, 

Westminster,   late  of  James,  earl  of  Wilts,  and  in  the  king's  hands  hj  reason  of  his 

forfeiture,  with  views  of  frank-pledge  and  other  appurtenances,  to  the 

Talue  of  20  marks  yearly  without  rendering  anything.  By  p.s. 

Feb.  26.         The  like  to  the  king's  servitor  John  Thomson  of  8/.  yearly  from  Michael- 
Westminster,  mas  last  from  the  yearly  rent  of  38/.  from  the  priory  of  Monkenferley,  co, 
Wilts,  lately  assigned  by  Henry  VI.  to  the  college  of  Eton.  By  K. 

1461. 

Dec  21.  Grant  to  Boger  Bee,  esquire,  usher  of  the  king's  chamber,  and  his  heirs 
Westminster,  and  assigns,  for  his  good  service  to  the  king's  father  Bichard,  late  duke  of 
York,  and  the  king,  of  all  lands  and  possessions  called  *  Mykyll  Holand,' 
late  of  James,  earl  of  Wilts,  in  the  county  of  Essex,  all  lands  and  posses- 
sions late  of  Henry  Lewes,  knight,  in  the  town  and  parish  of  Nevyndon, 
CO.  Essex,  and  all  lands  and  possessions  late  of  John  Nayler,  esquire,  in 
the  county  of  Middlesex,  in  the  king's  hands  by  reason  of  their  forfeitures, 
to  hold  by  fealty  as  of  the  value  of  40/.  yearly.  By  p.s. 

1462. 

Mardi  1.        Grant  for  life  to  John  Grene  and  William  Grene  his  brother  of  the 

Westminster,  office  of  the  stewardship  of  all  castles,  manors  and  lands  which  John,  late 

earl  of  Oxford,  or  anyone  to  his  use,  held  in  the  counties  of  Essex,  Suffolk 

and  Cambridge,  on  3  June  last  or  afterwards,  receiving  the  accustomed  fees. 

ByK. 


MSMBRA^SS  20  A^D  19. 

Feb.  9.  Inspexitnus  and  confirmation  to  the  abbot  and  convent  of  Rughford  and 

Westminster,  their  successors  of  the  following  : — 

1.  Letters  patent  dated  8  June,  2  Bichard  II.,  inspecting  and  confirming  a 
charter  dated  28  October,  21  Edward  III.  [Charter  RoUj  21  Edward 
III.  No*  12],  inspecting  and  confirming  the  followiog  :  — 

(1.)  A  charter  dated  12  February,  9  Edward  II.  {Charter  RoUj 

9  Edward  //.,  No.  34],  inspecting  and  confirming  the  following  :— 

a»  A  charter  of  Henry  II.  dated  at  Westminster  confirming 

grants  by  Gilbert,  earl  of  Lincoln. 
&.  A  charter  of  the  same  dated  at  Westminster  exonerating  them 

from  toll,  passage,  and  pontage, 
c.  A  charter  of  Stephen  dated  at  York  confirming  a  grant  by 

Gilbert  de  Gant. 
(/.  A  charter  of  the  same  dated  at  Lincoln  exonerating  them 

from  customs  in  Nottingham. 
e.  A  charter  of  Bichard  I.  dated  J  4  September  exonerating 

'    them  from  toll. 
/.  Letters  patent  of  John  dated  at  Winchester,  8  October^  of 
licence  to  erect  a  dyke  between  their  wood  of  Beskhall  and 
the  town  of  Welhagh  and  to  build  keeper's  lodges. 
g*  A  charter  dated  at  Oxford,  12  April,  17  Henry  HI.,  qotl* 

firming  a  grant  of  land  by  Balph  son  of  Nicholas. 
A.  A  charter  £ited  at  Wodestoke,  4  February,  36  Henry  Illi 

[Monasticon], 
i.  A  charter  dated  9  February,  11  Edward  I.,  inspecting  and 
confirming  a  charter  of  John  de  Yescy  to  Thomas  de  Steyne- 
greve,  then  abbot,  and  the  convent.'  [Monastican,'] 
J.  A  charter  dated  7  June,  13  Edward  I.,  inspecting  and  con-« 
firming  a  charter  of  John  de  Vescy,  son  of  William  de 
Vcscy,  confirming  grants  of  lands  in  Bod&rham,  with  th^ 
lordship  of  the  market  and  fair  there* 


140  CALENDAR  OF  PATENT  ROLLS. 


1462,  Metnbranes  20  and  19 — coni. 

(2.)  A  demise  dated  the  day  of  St.  Mary  Magdalen,  1278,  by  Bonoy 
the  abbot,  and  the  convent  of  Glairvaux  to  them  of  a  moiety  of  the 
church  of  Roderham  of  the  gift  of  John  de  Lexintona,  at  a  rent  of 
20/.  of  sterlings  worth  at  least  four  of  Tours. 

(3.)  Letters  patent  dated  18  November,  16  Edward  III.  concerning 
the  said  moiety  of  the  church. 

(4.)  The  teuour  of  a  record  and  process  of  an  inqnistion  before  the 
JQStices  in  eyre  of  the  forest  of  Shirewod,  Hilary,  Jo  Edward  I., 
whereby  it  was  found  that  the  men  of  Clippestone  and  Edenestowe 
ought  to  take  nothing  in  the  wood  of  the  abbot  and  convent  within 
the  said  forest. 

(5.)  Qrant  by  Robert  de  Waddesley  and  another  by  Edmund  de 
Dacre  to  Elias,  then  abbot,  and  the  convent. 

2.  A  charter  dated  7  June.  13  Edward  I.  [Charter  Boil,  13  Edtoard  I., 
No,  78],  being  a  grant  to  them  of  free  warren  in  divers  lands  named. 

3.  Letters  patent  dated  7  June,  28  Edward  L,  being  a  licence  for  them 
to  sell  wood  blown  down  by  the  wind  within  their  woods  within  the 
forest  of  Shirewode. 

4.  Letters  patent  dated  8  September,  37  Edward  [IIL]  being  a  licence 
for  them  to  root  up  heath  and  dead  stumps  within  the  said  woods. 

6.  Letters  pat-ent  dated  11  October,  28  Edward  JIL,  being  a  licence  for 
the  acquisition  in  mortmain  by  them,  after  inquisition,  of  10/.  yearly 
of  land  and  rent,  not  held  in  chief.       For  5  marks  pud  in  the  hanaper. 

Mbubrans  19 — cont. 

Jan.  20.  Grant  to  Richard  Fenys,  knight,  and  Joan  his  wife,  kinswoman  and 

Westminster,  heir  of  Thomas  Dacre,  knight,  deceased,  viz.,  daughter  of  Thomas  his 
son,  and  the  heirs  of  her  body  of  the  manors  of  Irthington,  Dacre,  Kirkeos- 
walde.  Blackball,  Farlam,  Brakanwajte,  Lasingby,  Brampton,  Burgh  on 
Sands,  Ayketon,  Rouclife  and  Glossenby  and  300  acres  of  land,  2,000 
acres  of  pasture,  40  acres  of  wood,  40s,  of  rent  in  Newbigging,  Mosdale, 
Staffull  and  Olassonby  and  from  a  moiety  of  the  manor  of  Castell  Kariot, 
CO.  Cumberland,  the  manors  of  Barton  and  Hoff,  co.  Westmoreland,  Hol- 
beche,  co.  Lincoln,  and  Halton,  Fisshwyke,  Kelette  and  Eccleston,  co. 
Lancaster,  and  all  other  lordships,  manors,  lands,  advowsons,  knights* 
fees,  corrodies  and  other  possessions  late  of  the  said  Thomas  Dacre,  knight, 
in  the  king's  hands  by  reason  of  an  Act  of  Parliament  at  Westminster, 
4  November.  By  p.s. 

Feb.  24.         Grant  for  life  to  the  king's  servant  John  Bosewell,  from  4  March  last,  of 

Westminster,  the  office  called  He  ryding  forster'  of  the  king's  forest  of  Windesore, 

receiving  wages  of  3d,  daily  from  the  issues  of  the  castle  and  lordship  of 

Windesore  with  all  other  profits  such  as  John  Corbet  had  in  the  same  office 

in  the  times  of  Edward  III.  and  Richard  IT. 


Mbmbranb  18. 

Feb.  5.  Grant  in  frank  almoin  to  Henry  Trevilian,  the  master,  and  the  brethren 

Westminster,  and  sisters  of  the  house  or  hospital  of  St.  Katharine  by  the  Tower,  London, 
of  the  manors  of  Chesingbury,  co.  Wilts,  and  Qwarley,  co.  Southampton, 
parcel  of  the  alien  priory  of  Okebum,  with  all  rights,  profits,  lands,  rents, 
fees,  advowsons,  courts  and  other  appurtenances,  for  the  sustenance  of  them 
and  ten  poor  women  of  the  hospital.  By  E« 

Feb.  25.         Grant  to  the  king's  sister  Anne  of  the  60  marks  which  Thomas,  late 

Westminster,  abbot,  and  the  convent  of  Ohartesay  owe  to  the  king  for  the  last  Voidance  of 

the  abbey.  By  K, 


1  BDWAED  IV.~Pabt  V.  Ul 


1462.  Membrane  18 — eont. 

March  1.  Licence,  for  lOOs,  paid  in  the  hanaper,  for  Thomas  Hoc  and  Richard 

Westniotter.  Brajn,  esquires,  to  enfeoff  Greorge  Neville,  bishop  of  Exeter,  the  chancellor, 
John  Wenlok,  knight,  lord  Wenlok,  Ealph  Verney,  Thomas  Urswyk, 
Thomas  Burgojn,  Thomas  Bryan,  Hugh  Fenne,  Henry  Spilman,  Bobert 
Brampton  and  Thomas  Randolf ,  clerk,  of  the  manors  of  Eilby,  Fossewik, 
West  Lexham  and  Earbroke,  co.  Norfolk,  and  the  advowsons  of  the 
churches  of  Filby  and  Possewyk,  .except  an  acre  of  land  in  the  manor  of 
West  Lexham,  held  in  chief,  to  fulfil  the  will  of  Greoffrey  Boleyo,  citizen 
and  alderman  of  London. 

Feb.  6.  Grant  to  John  Pylkyngton,  one  of  the  esquires  of  the  body,  and  the  heirs 

WMtminster*  male  of  his  body  of  the  reversion  of  the  third  part  of  the  manor  of  Thometon 
in  Graven,  co.  York,  and  the  manor  of  Lynton  on  Owse,  co.  York,  on  the 
death  of  Margaret  late  the  wife  of  John  Boos,  knight,  lord  of  Boos, 
deceased,  belonging  to  the  king  by  reason  of  the  foifeiture  of  Thomas  late 
lord  of  Boos  and  by  authority  of  Parliament  at  Westminster,  4  November, 
the  reversion  of  the  remaining  two  parts  of  the  said  manor  of  Thometon  on 
the  death  of  Eleanor,  duchess  of  Somerset,  belonging  to  the  king  as  above, 
and  the  reversion  of  the  manors  of  Grymesthorp,  Edenham,  Aylesthorp,  and 
Seuthorp,  CO.  Lincoln,  on  the  death  of  Katharine,  duchess  of  Noifolk, 
belonging  to  the  king  by  the  forfeiture  of  William,  late  viscount  Beaumond, 
and  idl  lands,  rents  and  sendees  with  knights'  fees,  advowsons  and  other 
hei^Mlitaments  in  those  places  belonging  to  the  king  as  above;  and  also 
cf  the  manors  of  Tumehamhall,  co.  York,  Malteby  and  Hotou,  co.  York, 
and  Hole  alias  Hoell,  co.  Lincoln,  with  knight's  fees  and  other  heredita- 
ments, belonging  to  the  king  bv  reason  of  the  forfeitures  of  Thomas^  late 
Jmd  of  Boos,  John,  late  lord  of  Clyfford,  and  Thomas  Claymond,  esquire, 
respectively.  By  p.s. 

Feb.  2tf.         Grant  for  life  to  William  Broun,  clerk,  of  the  hospital  or  house  of  St. 
Weitminster.  John  Baptist,  Dorchestre,  co.  Dorset.  By  K* 

Feb.  23.  Grant  in  frank  almoin  to  the  prior  and  convent  of  the  Charterhouse  by 
Westminster.  London  of  the  alien  priory  of  Okebourne  and  the  manor  of  Okeborne  alias 
Okeboume  Seynt  George  in  Great  Okebourne  and  Little  Okebourne,  co. 
Wilts,  and  all  lands,  rents,  services,  chantries,  advowsons,  liberties,  views  of 
frank  pledge,  waifs,  strays,  leets,  courts  baron,  wards^  marriages  and  other 
profits  and  appurtenances  within  Great  Okebourne  and  Little  Okebourne. 

ByK. 

-  -^-  Mbmbrane  17. 

14ol. 

Dec.  13.         Grant  to  Thomas  Heywode,  the  dean,  and  the  chapter  of  the  cathedral  of 

Westminster.   St.  Chad,  Lichefeld,  that  no  sheriff,  escheator^  constable,  bailiff  or  other 

minister  of  the  king  shall  enter  the  said  church  or  its  close,  cemetery  and 

precinct  or  the  houses  of  the  dean,  canons,    vicars,   chaplains  or  other 

ministers,  and  that  they  shall  have  within  the  same  return  of  writs  and  also 

the  chattels  of  felons,  fugitives  and  outlaws,  for  the  fabric  of  the  church. 

By  p.s. 

Dec.  16.  Inspeximus  and  confirmation  to  William  Cause,  alderman,  and  William 

Westminster.  Smyth,  William  Danyell,  William  Blower  and  Thomas  Wright,  wardens, 
of  trie  gild  of  St.  George  of  Bishop's  Lynn,  of  letters  patent  dated  4  October, 
8  Henry  IV.,  being  a  licence  for  John  Brandon,  Bartholomew  Cisterne, 
and  John  Snaiwell  of  Bishop's  Lynn  to  found  the  said  gild  with  power  to 
acquire  and  hold  lands,  and  licence  for  them  to  acquire  a  tenement  late  of 
Bobert  Baily  in  the  town  of  Lenn  in  the  street  called  * le  Checker'  for  the 
sustenance  of  one  or  two  chaplains  to  celebrate  divine  service  in  the  church 
of  St.  Margaret  for  the  good  estate  of  the  king  and  queen,  and  the  gild, 
and  of  their  souls  after  death ;  and  licence  for  the  acquisition  in  mortmain 
by  them  of  lands,  tenements  imd  rents  to  (he  value  of  10/.  yearly  for  (he 


142  CALENDAR  OP  PATENT  BOLLS. 


1461,  Membrane  17 — cent. 

sustenance  of  one  or  two  chaplains  to  celebrate  divine  service  in  the  church 
of  St.  Margaret,  Lenn,  for  the  good  estate  of  the  king,  his  brothers  George, 
duke  of  Clarence,  and  Eichard,  duke  of  Gloucester,  George,  bishop  of  Exeter, 
Kichard,  earl  of  Warwick,  and  the  brethren  and  sisters  of  the  gUd,  and  for 
their  souls  after  death  and  the  souls  of  the  king's  father  Kichard,  late  duke 
of  York,  Edmund,  late  earl  of  Rutland,  his  brother,  and  Richard,  late  earl 
of  Sallsburj,  his  kinsman. '  Bj  p.s. 

Dec,  14.  Inspeximus  and  confirmation  to  the  abbot  and  convent  of  Bukfast  of 

Westminster.  letters  patent  dated  10  December,  7  Richard  II.,  confirming  a  concord 
made  bj  them  with  James  Daudelegh  and  Thomas  Daudelegh,  knights, 
to  end  a  dispute  touching  six  weirs  made  by  the  latter  to  the  damage  of  the 
abbot  and  convent's  weir  at  Bukfast  and  Asshperton  whei'ebjithese  agree  to 
throw  down  the  six  weirs  and  the  abbot  and  convent  are  to  have  an  opening 
of  6  feet  in  the  middle  of  the  river  Derte  in  the  manor  of  Dertyngton 
between  Bukfast  and  the  sea  for  the  ascent  of  salmon  and  other  fish  to 
their  weir  at  Bukfast  and  Asshperton,  in  return  for  which  they  are  to  receive 
the  said  knights  to  the  benefits  of  their  prayers,  to  celebrate  the  obit  of  the 
said  knights,  and  maintain  their  shields  of  arms  in  the  glass  of  the  west 
gable  of  their  church.  For  1  mark  paid  in  the  hanaper. 

Membrane  16. 
1462. 

Feb.  28.  Appointment  of  the  king's  brother  George,  duke   of  Clarence,  as  his 

VYestminster.  lieutenant  in  Ireland  until  7  years  from  6  March  next,  with  power  to  appoint 
under  the  great  seal  of  England  or  the  great  seal  used  in  Ireland  a 
deputy  under  him  in  his  absence,  to  keep  the  king's  peace  and  laws  and 
punish  offenders,  to  receive  rebels  into  the  king's  peace,  to  pardon  for 
treasons  and  other  offences,  to  take  into  the  king's  hands  all  lands  of  rebels 
and  to  grant  the  same  to  suitable  persons,  to  grant  licences  for  alienation  in 
mortmain,  to  present  to  benefices  in  the  king's  gift,  to  take  fealties  and 
renunciations  of  archbishops  and  bishops  and  to  receive  homages  of  tenants, 
to  appoint  and  remove  officers  of  the  chancery  and  treasury,  justices,  barons 
of  the  exchequer,  the  keeper  of  the  rolls  of  chancery  and  other  officers  and 
ministers,  to  make  purveyances  for  his  household  and  for  the  soldiers,  and 
do  all  else  pertaining  to  his  office.  By  K. 

Feb.  27.  Appointment  for  life  of  John  Wenlok,  knight,  lord  Wenlok,  as  steward 

WestminBter.  of  the  king's  manors  and  lordships  of  Longley  Mai^eys,  Wyrerdesbury  and 
Bledlowe,  co.  Buckingham,  and  the  manor  of  Risclepp,  co.  Middlesex,  from 
Easter  last,  receiving  the  accustomed  fees  from  the  issues  of  the  same. 

By  p.s. 

Feb.  2.  Grant  for  life  to  the  king's  servant  John  Grene  and  William  Grene  his 

Westminster,  brother  of  the  office  of  the  stewardship  of  all  castles,  manors.and  lands  which 

John^  late  earl  of  Oxford,  held  in  the  counties  of  Essex,  Suffolk  and 

Cambridge  on  3  June  last,  receiving  the  accustomed  fees.  By  K. 

Vacated  because  otherwise  below, 

• 

Feb.  28.  Appointment  of  John  Senycle  to  take  into  the  king's  hands  the  manor  of 

Westminater.  Wangford  by  Brandon  with  the  advowson  of  the  church  of  Wangford,  co. 
Suffolk,  late  of  Thomas  Tudenham,  knight,  a  rebel,  and  to  receive  the  issues 
and  account  for  them  at  the  Exchequer. 


Membrane  15. 

Jan.  28.         Grant  for  life  to  Casyn  Danyell  of  the  town  of  Calais  of  a  fee  of  4rf. 
Westminster,  daily  at  the  hands  of  the  treasurer  of  the  town.  By  p.8. 


1  EDWABD  I7,~Pabt  V.  U» 


1462«  Membrane  15— ccm^. 

Feb.  4.  The  like  to  William  Staveley  of  10/.  yearly  from  Michaelmas  last  from 

Westminster,  the  issues  of  the  counties  of  Essex  and  Hertford.  By  K. 

Feb.  1.  The  like  to  Richard  Musgrave,  esquire,  son   of  Bichard  Musgrave, 

Westminster,  knight,  of  the  office  of  constable  of  Pendragon,  and  chief  forester  of  the 
forest  of  Kirkeby  Stephan,  co.  Westmoreland ;  and  appointment  of  him  for 
life  as  keeper  and  surveyor  of  all  parks  and  foreign  woods  there  and  bailiff 
of  the  lordships  of  Bourgh  and  Kirkeby  Stephan,  receiving  the  accustomed 
fees  from  the  issues  of  the  lordships.  By  p.s. 

Grant  for  life  to  the  said  Bichard  of  the  ofilce  of  constable  of  Burgh 
under  Staynesmore  and  chief  forester  of  the  forest  of  Burgh  and  Kirkeby 
Stephen. 

Feb.  4.  The  like  to  the  king's  servant  William  Langley,  groom  of  *  le  picherhous ' 

Westminster,  of  the  household,  for  his  good  service  to  the  king's  father  and  the  king  at 
Northampton,  Wakefeld  and  Wygmore  and  in  the  king's  last  journey  in 
the  north,  of  the  office  of  porter  and  keeper  of  the  gaol  of  the  king's  castle 
of  Northampton  from  4  March  last,  with  fees  as  in  the  times  of  Edward 
III,  and  Bichard  II.  from  the  issues  of  the  county  of  Northampton. 

By  p.8, 

Feb.  4.  The  like  to  William  Lonesdale  of  the  office  of  parker  of  Shilbotel,  co. 

Westminster.  Northumberland,  with  fees  as  in  the  times  of  Edward  III.  and  Bichard  II. 

By  p.s. 

Feb.  9.         The  like  to  Bobert  AUerton  of  10/.  yearly  from  the  20/.  yearly  due  to  the 

Westminster,  king  from  the  parish  church  of  Botheram,  co.  York,  at  the  hands  of  the 

abbot  and  convent  of  Boughf  ord.  By  p.8. 

Feb.  10.         The  like  to  William  Borogh  of  the  office  of  constable  of  the  king's  castle 

Westminster,  of  Prowdehowe,  co.  Northumberland,  with  the  disposition  of  all  offices 

belonging  to  the  castle  or  lordship,  with  the  accustomed  fees.  By  p.s. 

Feb.  to.  The  like  to  John  Doon,  esquire,  one  of  the  ushers  of  the  king's  chamber, 
Westminster,  of  the  office  of  Serjeant  or  master  of  the  king's  armoury  within  the  Tower 
of  London,  with  wages  of  I2d»  daily  for  himself,  6d,  daily  for  a  yeoman  and 
Sd,  daily  for  a  groom  from  11  March  last  from  the  issues  of  the  city  of 
London  and  the  county  of  Middlesex  and  all  other  profits,  in  lieu  of  a  like 
grant  to  him  of  the  same  office  by  letters  patent  dated  3  November, 
surrendered  on  account  of  an  ambiguity.  By  K. 

March  2.        The  like  to  Thomas  Oxeney  of  the  office  of  controller  of  ^  coket '  and  wreck 

Westminster,  of  sea  within  the  counties  of  Cornwall  and  Devon,  with  wages  as  in  the 

years  36  and  37  Edward  III.  at  the  hands  of  the  receiver  general  of  the 

duchy  of  Cornwall.  By  p.8. 

Feb.  25.  Grant  to  Bichard  Middelton,  esquire,  and  the  heirs  male  of  his  body  of  the 

Westminster,  manor  of  Great  Lyneford,  co.  Buckingham,  with  the  advowson  of  the  church 

there,  to  the  value  of  18/.  yearly,  with  all  appurtenances,  in  the  king's 

hands  by  the  forfeiture  of  James,  late  earl  of  Wilts,  and  by  authority  of 

the  Parliament  held  at  Westminster,  4  November.  By  p.s. 

March  2.        Grant  for  life  to  William  Shirbom,  esquire,  of  the  office  of  searcher  in 

Westminster,  the  port  and  town  of  Calais,  with  the  accustomed  fees  from  the  issues  of  the 

customs  at  the  port.  By  p.s. 

Feb.  16.        Grant  to  Henry  Waner  of  London,  *  draper,'  of  200/.  from  the  customs  and 

Westminster,  subsidies  of  wool?,  hides  and  wool-fells  in  the  ports  of  London  and  Ipowich 

in  satisfaction  of  350/.  lent  by  him  to  the  king,  160/.  having  been  granted 

to  him  at  the  Exchequer.  By  p.s. 

Feb.  9.  Grant  for  life  to  John  Berwyke,  esquire,  of  all  lands  in  Lokyngton  and 

i^  Westminster,  elsewhere  in  the  county  of  York  lately  belonging  to  Henry  Clyfford,  a  rebel, 

of  the  yearly  value  of  10/.,  in  the  king's  bands  by  reason  of  his  forfeiture. 

By  p.g. 


144  CALENDAR  OF  PATENT  ROLLS, 


X4g2.  Membrane  15«-co»^. 

Feb.  27.  Grant  to  John  Denhain,  esquire,  Thomas  Djmmok,  knight,  and  Thomas 
Westminster.  Burgh,  esquire,  of  the  manor  of  Cbixbj  with  its  members  and  appurtenances 
in  STothebv  and  Ingoldmeles,  co.  Lincoln,  the  manor  of  Metheryngham,  co. 
Lincoln,  and  the  manor  of  Hurworth  on  Tese  in  the  bishopric  of  Durham 
for  the  life  of  Elizabeth,  wife  of  William  Tajlboys,  knight,  a  rebel,  and 
daughter  of  William  late  lord  of  Sonvjle,  and  for  her  use  from  4  March 
last*  B7  p.s, 

\AQ\  Membrane  14. 

Dec.  16.  Confirmation  to  Elizabeth,  the  abbess,  and  the  convent  of  St.  Saviour, 
Weitmiaster.  St.  Mary  the  Virgin  and  St.  Bridget,  Sjon  of  their  foundation  within  the 
manor  of  Istilworth,  co.  Middlesex,  as  a  monastery  of  60  nuns  and  25 
religious  men,  of  whom  18  are  priests,  4  are  deacons  and  8  are  la3rmen,  and 
of  all  ordinances  and  decrees  concerning  the  Fame  in  apostolic  letters,  letters 
patent  and  acts  of  Parliament,  and  grant  to  them  in  frank  almoin  of  the 
said  manor,  a  fishery  called  ^  Boutewere '  by  the  same  within  the  banks 
of  the  Thames^  a  weir  by  Kyngeston  on  Thames  called  ^Hammewero,' 
CO.  Surrey,  and  a  parcel  of  meadow  adjacent  enclosed  by  the  river  Thames 
and  a  dyke,  a  dove-cote  and  a  parcel  of  land  adjacent  in  Petrisham,  co. 
Surrey,  a  dove-cote  and  a  parcel  of  land  adjacent  in  Hamme,  the  manor 
of  Worton  and  all  lands,  rents  and  services  called  ^Worton'  which 
Alice,  late  the  wife  of  Edmund  Fauconer,  held  for  life  in  Istilworth 
of  the  grant  of  Edward  III.,  the  manor  of  Grauncortes,  co.  Essex,  a 
messuage,  a  carucate  and  two  virgates  of  land,  24  acres  of  meadow,  4 
acres  of  wood,  20  acres  of  pasture,  18^.  of  rent  and  pasture  for  100 
sheep  in  Istilworth,  Twykenham,  Worton  and  Heston,  co.  Middlesex,  the 
manor  of  Hyuton  with  appurtenances  called  *  Uphalle,'  co.  Cambridge,  and 
all  lands,  rents  and  services  which  Henry  FitzHugh,  late  lord  of  Havens- 
wath,  deceased,  had  in  the  towns  of  Hynton,  Great  Wilburgham  and  Little 
Wilburgbam,  co.  Cambridge,  the  priory  of  Mount  St.  Michael  in  Cornwall, 
sometime  parcel  of  the  possessions  of  tho  alien  abbey  of  Mont  St.  Michel, 
and  all  manors,  lands  and  possessions  pertaining  to  the  same  in  that  county, 
the  priory  of  Oterton  alias  Oteryngton,  co.  Devon,  with  its  appurtenances, 
sometime  parcel  of  the  possessions  of  the  said  alien  abbey,  a  portion  in  the 
churcli  of  Martok,  co.  Somerset,  and  ail  manors,  lands  and  possessions  in 
the  counties  of  Somerset  and  Devon  sometime  pertaining  to  the  said  priory 
of  Oterton  or  the  said  alien  abbey,  the  priory  of  St.  Mary's,  Lancastre, 
sometime  parcel  of  the  possessions  of  the  alien  abbey  of  S6ez,  and  all  manors, 
lands  and  possessions  in  the  counties  of  Lancaster,  Sussex  and  Lincoln  and 
el8ewheri3  within  the  realm  sometime  pertaining  to  the  said  priory  or  abbey, 
the  priory  of  Lodros  with  its  appurtenances  in  the  county  of  Dorset, 
sometime  parcel  of  the  possessions  of  the  alien  abbey  of  Montebourg,  and 
all  manors,  lands  and  possessions  in  the  counties  of  Devon  and  Dorset 
sometime  pertaining  to  the  said  priory  or  abbey,  the  manors  of  Cheltenham 
and  Sloughtre  and  the  hundreds  of  Cheltenham,  Sloughtre  and  Salmondes- 
bury,  CO.  Gloucester,  and  the  manors  of  Stenynges,  Brede  and  Wormyng- 
hurst,  CO.  Sussex,  sometime  parcel  of  the  possessions  of  the  alien  abbey  of 
Fecamp,  and  all  manors,  lands  and  possessions  in  those  counties  and  the 
city  of  London  and  elsewhere  within  the  realm  sometime  belonging  to  the 
said  abbey,  the  manors,  rectories  or  churches  of  Chilham,  Molessn  alias 
Molassh,  and  Trewlegh  alias  Treveley  alias  Treuley,  co.  Kent,  sometime 
parcel  of  the  possessions  of  the  alien  abbey  of  St.  Bertin,  St.  Omer, 
and  all  manors,  lands  and  possessions  in  those  towns  formerly  belonging  to 
the  said  abbey,  the  manor  and  rectory  or  church  of  Felstede,  co.  Essex, 
sometime  parcel  of  the  possessions  of  the  alien  abbey  of  Caen,  and  all  lands 
and  possessions  in  Felstede  sometime  belonging  to  the  said  abbey,  the  manor 


1  EDWARD  IV.— Paht  V,  143 


J.461,  Membrane  14 — cont. 

of  Tyleshide,  co.  'Wilts,  sometime  parcel  of  the  possessions  of  the  said  abbej* 
all  lands  and  possessions  in  Spaldjng  and  Pynchebek,  co.  Lincoln,  parcel  of 
the  alien  priory  of  Cosham,  the  manor,  lands  and  possessions  of  the  alien 
abbej  of  St.  Nicholas  of  Angers  in  Spaldyng  and  Pynchebek,  all  fruits 
from  the  church  of  Cosham,  co.  Wilts,  sometime  belonging  to  the  alien 
abbey  of  Marmoutiers  les  Tours,  the  manor  of  Mychelhampton  alias 
Mychynhampton,  co.  Gloucester,  sometime  parcel  of  the  possessions  of  the 
alien  abbey  of  Caen,  on  the  death  of  Alice,  duchess  of  Suffolk,  tenant  for 
life,  a  messuage  in  Hyneford,  co.  Somerset,  2  aci-es  of  land  in  Yevele  with 
the  advowson  gf  the  church  of  Yevele,  co.  Somerset,  the  advowsons  of  the 
churches  of  St.  Clement  and  All  Saints,  Kastynges,  the  church  of  Brede, 
the  church  of  St.  Leonard  in  Yham  and  the  hospital  of  Playdon,  co.  Sussex, 
sometime  belonging  to  the  abbey  of  Fecamp,  the  churches  of  Gates  and 
Fysshbiu'ne,  co.  Sussex,  and  Navenby  and  Botheby,  co.  Lincoln,  sometime 
belonging  to  the  abbey  of  Seez,  and  the  churches  of  Crofton,  Ecclesdon  and 
Hyesham,  co.  Lancaster,  sometime  belonging  to  the  priory  of  Lancastre,  i&nd 
4  tuns  of  Gascon  wine  yearly  in  the  port  of  London,  with  all  hundreds, 
courts  leet,  wapentakes,  views  of  frank  pledge,  manors,  lands,  possessions, 
rents,  services,  suits,  villeins,  churches,  knights'  fees,  wards,  relicts,  escheats, 
.advowsons  and  other  appurtenances,  that  they  may  pray  to  the  Saviour  for 
the  good  estate  of  the  king  and  Cicely  his  mother  during  their  lives,  and 
for  their  souls  after  death,  and  for  the  souls  of  the  king's  father  Richard, 
late  duke  of  York,  and  his  progenitors.  By  K. 

1462. 

March  1.  Grant  to  the  king's  kinsman  Henry,  eai*l  of  Essex,  and  the  king's  aunt 
Westminster.  Isabel,  countess  of  Essex,  his  consort,  and  her  heirs  of  the  lordships  or 
manors  of  Bolweton  alias  Belweton  and  Pensford,  and  the  lordships  or 
manors  of  Breene  and  Oxton,  co.  Somerset,  Foulnesse  alias  Fullenesse, 
Pakelesham  alias  Pakesham,  Dogettes,  Lieghe  and  Wakeryng,  co.  Essex, 
and  Colvilles,  Sowches  and  Sherdelowes  in  Fulburn  and  elsewhere,  co. 
Cambridge,  a  piece  of  land  called  Me  chirche  glebe'  in  Fulburn,  with 
the  advowson  of  the  church  of  St.  Vigor,  Fulburn,  pertaining  to  the  said 
piece  of  land,  the  lordships  and  manors  of  Moreves,  co.  Suffolk,  Foxherde, 
Brokehall  and  Holaud,  co.  Essex,  and  Heybernes,  co.  Warwick,  and  the 
manor  of  Gosyes  alias  Goseies,  co.  Essex,  and  the  reversion  of  the  manor 
of  Newehall  on  the  death  of  Agnes,  late  the  wife  of  Richard  Aired, 
esquire,  deceased,  with  advowsons,  rents,  services,  knight's  fees,  wards, 
marriages,  views  of  frank  pledge,  courts,  liberties  and  other  promts,  in  part 
satisfaction  of  the  will  of  Edmund,  late  earl  of  March,  the  king's  progenitor, 
who  directed  that  in  case  he  died  without  issue  his  feoffees  after  the  pay- 
ment of  his  debts  should  deliver  seisin  to  Thomas  Gray,  deceased  without 
issue,  and  the  said  Isabel,  then  his  wife,  niece  of  the  said  earl,  of  lauds  to 
the  yearly  value  of  300  marks,  to  hold  in  tail  with  remainder  to  the  right 
heirs  of  Isabel,  and,  afler  the  death  of  Anne  his  consort  and  the  payment 
of  her  debts,  of  lands  to  the  yearly  value  of  500  marks,  to  hold  to  them  and 
the  heirs  ef  Isabel,  which  has  not  yet  been  done.  By  K. 

MSMBRANE   13. 
1461. 

Dec.  21.  Inspeximns  arid  confirmation  to  the  burgesses  of  Portesmuth  of  letters 

Westminster,  patent   dated  12    October,    8  Richard  II.  inspecting  and  confirming  the 
following : — 

1.  A  charter  dated  4  July,  40  Henry  III.  being  a  grant  of  licence  for  the 

foundation  of  a  merchant  gild  in  the  town  and  that  they  be  quit 
of  chominago  throughout  tge  kinh's  forest. 

2.  A  charter  (called  letters  patent)  dated  13  October,  32  Edward  III. 

{Charter  Roll,  32  Edward  IIL  No,  4,]  inspecting:  and  confirming 

M     86914.  K 


146  CAliSNDAA  07  FATBITT  BOLLS. 


X461,  Membrane  13 — cont, 

A  charter  dated   12  February,   6    Edward    II.    [Charter     Roll^ 
6  Edward  IT.  No.  28],  inspecting  and' confirming  the  following :  — 
(I.)  A  charter  dated  2  May,  5  Bichard  I. 
(2.^  A  charter  dated  25  October,  2  John. 
(3.)  A  charter  dated  18  November,  14  Henry  III.  [Charter  Boll, 

14  Henry  IIL  p,  2,  m.  4.] 
(4.)  Letters  patent  dated  6  April,  39  Henry  III. 

For  20s,  paid  in  the  hanaper. 

1462. 

Jan.  16.  Inspeximus  and  coniirmation  of  letters  pateq^ of  the  king's  father  Richard, 
Westminster,  late  duke  of  York,  dated  at  his  castle  of  Fodryngey,  8  March,  27  Henry  VI., 
being  a  gi*ant  for  life  to  his  servants  John  Langley,  esquire,  and  Margaret 
his  wife  of  a  yearly  rent  of  20/.  from  the  issues  of  his  manor  and  lordship 
of  Holmefryth,  co.  York,  in  lieu  of  a  like  grant  to  them  from  the  issues  of 
his  manor  and  lordship  of  Mersshewod  Vale,  co.  Dorset,  by  his  letters  patent 
dated  ]  8  January,  surrendered.        By  K.  and  for  205.  paid  in  the  hanaper. 

1461. 

March  20.        Grant  for  life  to  the  king's  kinsman  George,  bishop  of  Exeter,  of  the 

Westminster,   custody  of  the  king's  park  of  Princes  Rysburgh,  co.  Buckingham,  with 

herbage  and  pannage,  receiving  the  accustomed  f(»es  from  the*  issues  of  the 

manor  or  lordship  of  Rysburgh.  By  K. 

MSMBRANS  12. 

Dec.  6.  Inspexiinns  and  confirmation  to  the  dean  and  chapter  of  the  cathedral 

Westminster,   of  St.  Peter,  Exeter,  and  the  mavor,  bailiffs  and  commonalty  of  the  city 
of  Exeter  of  the  following  :— 

1.  A  petition  (English)  in  Parliament  at  Westminster,  15  Henry  VI., 
that,  whereas  the  said  mayor,  bailiffs  and  commonalty  claimed  that 
all  the  soil  and  ground  without  the  east  gate  of  the  city  '  withinne 
the  boundes  that  folowen,  begynnyng  fro  the  myddell  of  the  hieway 
lyeng  betwene  the  tenement  of  John  Symond  sette  in  the  soille  and 
ground  and  fee  icalled  *'  Seynt  Sidewill  fee '  on  the  est  partie  and  the 
tenement  of  Mawede  that  was  the  wife  of  Thomas  Joliblode  sette 
in  the  maner  of  Durieurd  on  the  west  partie  of  the  same  way  where 
and  in  which  way  is  nowe  growyng  a  grete  tree  and  so  fro  that 
begynnyng  and  myddell  of  the  same  way  downe  by  the  myddell  of 
the  same  way  into  a  litell  water  icalled  ^Langbroke '  and  fro  the  same 
watre  up  by  the  myddell  of  the  same  way  into  a  place  icalled  ^Marepoll' 
and  so  fro  Marepoll  doun  by  the  myddell  of  the  way  and  lane  Hying 
betwene  the  londes  of  the  soill  ground  and  fee  forsaid  on  that  one 
partye  and  the  londes  of  the  priorasse  of  Polslo  on  that  other  partie 
into  the  hie  way  com}'ng  fro  Excetre  to  Mynchynlake  and  so  in  and 
over  that  hie  way  into  a  lane  and  way  called  '  Euggeway '  lying  be- 
twene the  londes  of  the  soil!  ground  and  fee  foresaid  icalled  'Octoburgh' 
on  that  oon  partie  and  the  londes  of  the  said  priorasse  of  Polslo  on 
that  other  partie,  and  so  furth  be  the  myddell  of  the  same  way  and 
lane  into  the  hie  way  comyng  fre  Excetre  to  Whippeton  and  Brode- 
elist  and  so  in  and  over  that  hie  ^vay  into  another  way  and  lane 
called  '  Kuggeway  '  lieng  between  the  londes  of  the  soill,  ground  and 
fee  forsaid  icalled '  Suthdon  '  on  that  oon  partie  and  the  londes  of  the 
said  priorasse  of  Polslo  on  that  other  partye  and  so  furth  by  the 
myddell  of  the  same  way  and  lane  into  a  place  called  ^  Lynerdole  *  and 
j  so  into  an  hie  way  lyeng  toward  the  said  estyate  of  Excetre  betwene 

the  londes  of  the  soill,  ground  and  fee  forsaid  icalled  ^  Southdon '  on 
that  oon  partie  and  the  londes  of  Richard  Kelly  and  the  prlour  of  the 


I  BDWARD  IVt-PAW  V.  147 


J461.  Membrane  12— conr, 

hospitall  of  Sejnt  John  in  Excetre  on  that  other  partie  and  so 
fourth  bj  the  myddell  of  the  same  waj  into  a  litell  water  called 
'  Shitebroke '  and  adoun  so  by  the  myddell  of  the  same  broke  nnto  the 
southende  and  corner  of  a  gardyn  of  the  said  priour  of  Seynt  John 
aioynant  to  the  same  broke,  which  gardyn  lyeth  in  the  west  partye  of 
the  said  broke  and  withyn  the  soil!  ground  and  fee  forsaid,  and  fro 
the  same  suthende  and  comer  up  by  a  dyche  of  the  same  gardyn  into 
a  path  westward  lying  beiwene  the  londes  icalled '  Seynt  John  is  feldes ' 
on  that  oon  partie  and  the  soill  ground  and  fee  forsaid  on  that  other 
partie  and  so  furth  on  the  same  path  westward  onto  a  close  of 
William  Wynard  and  so  by  the  myddell  of  the  same  close  orer  the 
close  sumtyme  of  Roger  Golde  and  the  garden  of  oon  Thomas  Berwe 
alias  Beynall  directly  onto  a  thrange  lying  betwene  the  bame  sum- 
tyme of  the  said  Roger  Golde  in  the  southpartie  and  the  barne  of  the 
said  Thomas  Reynall  alias  Berwe  in  the  north  partie  and  so  oute 
into  the  high  way  called '  Cruldiche  way '  and  so  furth  by  the  middell 
,         of  the  same  way  northward  betwene  the  gardyn  and  tenement  of 
John  atte  Forde  in  the  west  partye  lyeng  withinne  the  suburbyes  of 
Excetre  and  the  soill,  ground  and  fee  forsaid  in  the  estpartiq  into 
the  high  way  comyng  fro  Excetre  to  Seint  Anne  Chapell  and  so 
furth  by  the  myddell  of  the  same  way  westward  evyn  ayenst  the 
begynuyng  of  the  forsaid  first  bound  and  so  directly  to  the  same 
bound '  are  parcel  of  the  suburb  of  the  city  and  within  their  juris- 
diction, and  the  said  dean  and  chapter  claimed  that  they  are  their 
fee  and  manor  caUed  ^  the  fee  and  manor  of  Seynt  Sydwill,'  the  king 
should  declare  the  same  to  be  separate  and  distinct  from  the  city 
and  suburbs  and  that  the  mayor,  bailiffs  and  commonalty  should 
exercise  no  jurisdiction  or  liberty  within  the  same  except  to  enjoy  a 
conduit  of  water  there,  ^  whos  heed  is  sette  in  Kakelane  sumtyme 
called '  Kake  lane  wille,'  and  to  break  ground  to  repair  it,  and  except 
that  the  inhabitants  within  the  same  maner  and  all  other  ^  mainering 
and  occupyeng  any  parcell  thereof  with  their  godes  or  catalls  shull 
alway  be  contributori  and  pay  with  the  citesyns  in  and  to  all  dymes, 
imposicons  and  charges  granted  by  Parliament,'  and  that  the  dean 
and  chapter  shall  have  view  of  frank  pledge  and  court  of  the  same 
and  court  baron  and  pleas  called  de  vetito  namioy  and  that  the  mayor, 
bailiffs  and  commonidty  shall  have  certain  customs  and  profits  called 
^  baggavell,'  '  ehepgavell '  and  '  brithyn  gavell '  within  the  soil  and 
freehold  of  the  dean  and  chapter  within  the  city  and  licence  to 
purchase  lands,  tenements,  rents  and  services  within  the  city  and 
suburbs  to  the  value  of  20  marks  yearly. 

2.  The  superscription  of  the  same : — Soit  bailie  as  seigneuris, 

3.  The  answer  of  the  king  inserted  on  the  dorse : — le  Ren  lad  attroie 

piirveu  toutz  foitz  que  n  ascuns  des  terres  et  tenementz  dedeinz 
iceste  petician  emeciHez  issint  a  purchacers  soient  tenuz  dautre  que 
de  Roi  que  sujjiciant  licence  soit  ent  primerement  eu  de  ceux  dez 
queux  ils  sont  tenuz  et  que  null  autre  persane  forsque  les  avanditez 
deanj  ckapitre,  mair^  baillifsy  cominalte  et  lour  successours  soit  en 
ascun  manere  en  damages  ne  prejndicez  par  force  de  icestes  presentez 
act  et  graunte.  By  iC.  and  for  20s,  paid  in  the  hauaper. 

July  9.  Appointment,  daring  good  behaviour,  of  Thomas  Kirkeby,  king's  clerk, 

Westminster,  as  keeper  of  the  rolls  and  books  of  Chancery,  receiving  the  accustomed  fees ; 

and  grant  to  him  daring  ofiice  of  the  custody  of  the  House  of  the  Converts, 

set  apart  of  old  by  kin^  of  England  and  annexed  to  the  said  o£5ce  for  the 

habitation  of  the  keeper.  By  K. 

K  2 


148  CALENDAR  OF  PATENT  BOLLS. 


1462*  Membrane  12 — cont, 

Feb.  25.         Grant  for  life  to  Richard  Gwjnetb,  one  of  the  yeomen  porters  of  the 

Westminster,  king's  househnld.  of  the  custody  of  the  passage  of  le  Hawo  in  the  hundred 

of  Drust,  CO.  Gloucester,  with  the  accustomed  emoluments.  By  p.8. 

1461. 

Dec.  12.         The  like  to  John  Norwode,  esquire,  of  the  ofhce  of  constable  of  the 

Westminster,   king's  castle  of  Quenesburgh,  co.  Kent,  and  the  mill  adjacent  from  4  March 

last,  receiving  fees  as  in  the  time  of  Richard  IL  or  Edward  III.  from  the 

issues  of  the  lordship  or  hundred  of  Middelton,  co.  Kent.  By  p.s. 

MbMBRANSS  11  AND  10. 

Dec.  4.  Inspeximus  and  confirmation  to  the  prior  and  convent  of  Christ  Church 

Westminster.  Twynham,  of  letters  patent  dated  23  June,  4  Richard  II.,  inspecting  and 

confirming  a  charter  dated  at  Westminster,  27  November,  7  Edward  II. 

{Charter   Boll,  7  Edward  IL  Xo,  17]»  inspecting  and  confirming  the 
bllowing : — 

1.  A  charter  of  William  II.  dated  at  Winchester. 

2.  A  charter  of  Stephen,  dated  Winchester,  1160. 

3.  A  charter  of  Henry  II.  dated  at  Salisbury. 

4.  A  charter  of  Richard  I.  dated  at  Westminster,  8  October. 

•5.  A  charter  dated  at  Christchurch,  31  January,  16  John  [^Rotuli  Carta* 
runij  p.  205]. 

6.  A  charter  dated  at  Winchester,  7  October,  13  Edward  1.  [CharterBoll, 

13  Edward  I.  No.  5]. 

7.  A  charter  dated  at  Westminster,  23  July,  25  Edward  I.,  inspecting  and 

confirming  a  writing  of  Isabel  de  Fortibus,  countess  of  Albemarle 
and  Devon  and  lady  of  the  Isle,  dated  London,  the  quinzaine  of 
Michaelmas,  1274.  For  5  marks  paid  in  the  hanaper. 

Membrane  10 — cont. 

Dec.  26.  Grant  in  mortmain  to  the  warden  and  scholars  of  the  college  of  All  Souls, 

Westminster.  Oxford,  from  4  March  last,  of  the  priory  of  Romeney  and  the  rectory  of 
Upchirch,  co.  Kent,  the  manor  of  Wedon  and  Weston  cUias  W^ou 
Pynkeney,  co.  Northampton,  the  priory  called  the  New,  Abbey  by  Alburbury, 
and  the  priories  of  St.  Clare  and  Langenyth  in  South  Wales,  with  manors, 
lands,  knights'  fees,  advowsous  and  other  appurtenances,  which  they  had 
of  the  grant  of  Henry  YI.  by  his  letters  patent  of  foundation  at  the  suppli- 
cation of  Henry  Chichele,  Utte  archbishop  of  Canterbury,  that  they  may 
pray  for  the  good  estate  of  the  king  and  his  mother  Cicely^  duchess  of 
York,  and  for  their  souls  after  death  and  the  souls  of  the  king's  progenitors. 

By  p.s. 

Dec.  12.         Grant  for  life  to  Thomas  Gray,  esquire,  of  a  yearly  rent  of  40/.  from  the 
Westminster,  issues  of  the  town  of  Cambridge.  By  K. 

Dec.  22.  Grant  to  John  Courteney,  esquire,  and  his  heirs  and  assigns  of  the 

Westminster,  manors  of  Exmynstre,  Kenforth  alias  Kenford  and  Kenne  and  the  hundred 
of  Exmynstre,  co.  Devon,  with  knights'  fees,  advowsons,  warrens,  regards 
and  other  appurtenances,  in  the  king's  hands  by  reason  of  their  forfeiture 
by  Thomas  Courtenay,  knight,  late  earl  of  Devon,  to  hold  by  fealty  and  the 
rent  of  Id,  yearly  at  Michaelmas.  Bj  p.s. 

Dec.  20.  Grant  for  life  to  Peter  Beaupie  and  Richard  Foster,  for  their  good  service 

Westminster,  to  the  king's  father  and  the  king,  of  the  custody  of  the  king's  manors  and 

lordships  of  Cokeham  and  Bray,  co.  Berks,  with  their  appurtenances  with 

all  meadows,  pastures,  woods,  fairs,  markets,  fisheries,  courts,  views  of  frank 

pledge,  hundreds,  wapentakes,  chattels,  liberties  and  other  profits,  with  all 


1  EDWARD  IV,— Part  V.  149 


1461,  Membrane  10 — cont, 

lands,  rents,  pastures  and  purprestaren  in  the  parish  of  Bray  in  the  forest  of 
Wjndesore  and  assarts,  wastes  and  purprestures  within  the  said  forest, 
manors  and  lordships,  late  of  Humphrey,  duke  of  Gloucester,  deceased,  from 
Michaelmas  last,  rendering  to  the  king  133/.  6s.  Sd.  yearly. 

Dec.  20.  Appointment  for  life  of  the  said  Peter  and  Richard  as  stewards  of  the 

WestmiDster.  said  manors  and  lordships,  receiving  the  accustomed  fees  at  the  hands  of  the 
occupiers. 

Dec.  21.         Grant  for  life  to  Henry  Swynhoume  of  the  office  of  bailiff  of  Alerdale  of 

Westminster,  the  honour  of  Cokermouth,  co.  Cumberland,  in  the  king's  hands  by  reason 

of  the  rebellion  of  Henry,  late  earl  of  Northumberland,  with  the  accustomed 

fees  from  the  said  honour  and  lordship.  By  p.c. 

Dec.  14.  Tbe  like  to  John  Eychard  of  the  county  of  Essex  of  the  hermitage  of 

Westminster.  Henold  in  that  count}'  with  all  alms  and  profits  pertaining  thereto,  provided 
that  be  does  what  pertains  to  the  profession  of  a  hermit. 

By  p.s.  for  Gkxl,  because  he  is  poor. 

Nov.  28.         The  like  to  John  Peyntour  of  the  office  of  porter  of  the  king's  castle  of 
Westminster.  Notyngham,  with  the  accustomed  fees.  By  p.8. 

Dec.  7.  The  like  to  Phitip  Laton  of  the  office  of  the  bailiwick  of  the  king's  lord- 

Westminster,  ship  and  manor  of  Whatlyngton,  co.  Oxford,  parcel  of  the  honour  of 
Walyngford,  pertaining  to  the  duchy  of  Cornwall,  receiving  2d.  daily  at  his 
own  hands  from  the  issues  of  the  same,  with  all  profits  of  the  office,  and 
answering  for  all  rents  before  the  auditors  of  the  duchy.  By  K. 

1462. 

Feb.  20.  The  like  to  John   Ottur  of  all  lands,  rents,  reversions  and  services 

Westminster,  in  Padyngthorp  and  flornyngton,  co.  York,  of  which  William  Taylboys, 

esquire,  rebel,  was  seised,  to  the  value  of  20  marks  yearly.  By  p.s. 

I4gl^  MrMBRANBS  9  AND  8. 

Nov.  6.  Inspexinms  and  confirmation  to  the  abbot  and  convent  of  Boclond  of 

Westminster,  letters  patent  dated  13  January,  17  Edward  III.  inspecting  and  confirming 
letters  patent  dated  6  April,  7  Edward  II.  inspecting  and  confirming  the 
following : — 

1.  A  writing  of  Isabel  de  Fortibus,  countess  of  Albemarle  and  Devon 

and  lady  of  the  Isle,  dated  St.  Edmund's  day,  1291,  being  a  grant 
to  them  of  the  manors  of  Boclond,  Bykelie,  Walkampton  and  Cul- 
umpton  and  divers  specified  lands  and  advowsons.     [Manasticon,'] 

2.  Another  writing  of  the  said  Isabel,  dated  Wednesday,  the  feast  of  St. 

Benedict,  1273,  being  a  grant  of  the  same  to  her  mother  Amice, 
countess  of  Devon  and  lady  of  the  Isle. 

3.  A  «3harter  of  the  said  Amice,  being  a  grant  of  the  same  to  the  convent 

of  Quarr  for  the  foundation  of  the  said  abbey  of  Boclond.  [Monas' 
ticonS\ 

4.  Letters  patent  dated  8  August,  4  Edward  I.  being  a  grant  to  the  said 

Amice  of  the  manor  of  Boclond,  with  the  hamlets  of  Columpton, 
Walkampton,  and  Bikelye.     {^Monasticon.'] 

For  60^.  paid  in  the  hanaper. 

MsMBRANS  8— ron^ 

Nov.  19.         Grant,  during  office,  to  Robert  Stillyngton,  king's  clerk,  keeper  of  the 

Westminster,  privy  seal,  an  office  for  which  he  ought  to  have  20*.  a  day,  of  365/.  yearly 

from   1  November,  viz.  40/.  from  the  issues  of  the  counties  of  Somerset  and 

Dorset,  40/.  from  the  issues  of  the  counties  of  Norfolk  and  Suffolk,  33/. 

from  the  issues  of  the  counties  of  Oxford  and  Berks,  100/.  from  the  customs 


150  CALENDAR  OP  PATENT  BOLLS. 


1461.  Jfembrane  8 — cant, 

and  gabfiidies  of  wools,  hides  and  wool-fells  in  the  port  of  London,  100/. 
from  the  like  in  the  port  of  Southampton,  32/.  from  the  issues  of  the  county 
of  Wilts,  and  20/.  from  the  issues  of  the  counties  of  Cambridge  and  Hun- 
tingdon. If  the  said  assignmentK  are  or  shall  be  insufficient  to  pay  the 
said  20ff.  a  day,  the  chancellor  shall  have  power  to  make  other  assignments 
without  warrant  or  suit  to  the  king  or  counciL  By  K. 

Nov.  29.         Letters  of  naturalisation  for  the  king*s  servitor,  Geffrey  Whltford,  one 
Westminster,  of  the  yeomen  of  the  chamber,  a  native  of  Wales,  and  his  heirs.  By  p.s. 

Dec.  8.  Grant  in  mortmain  to  the  prioress  and  convent  of  the  white  nuns  of  the 

Wsetrainster.  order  of  St.  Bernard  by  the  city  of  Worcester  of  10/.  yearly  from  the  issues 
of  the  county  of  Worcester  for  the  relief  of  their  poverty.  By  p.s. 

Mandate  in  pursuance  to  the  sheriff. 


1462.  Mbmbranes  7  and  6. 

Feb.  20.  iMpeximtu  and  confirmation  to  the  mayor,  bailiffs  and  burgesses  of  Hedon 

Weftmtnster.  in  Holdemesse  of  letters  patent  dated  21  October,  2  Henry  VI.  inspecting 

and  confirming  a  charter  dated  8  February,  2  Henry  V.  \Charter  Roily  2 

Henry  V,  p.  2,  Ao,  5,]  inspecting  and  confirming  with  additions  letters  patent 

dated  20  Joly,  1  Henry  IV.  inspecting  and  confirming  the  following  :-^ 

1.  A  charter  of  Henry  IL 

2.  A  charter  dated  13  December,  2  John, 

3.  A  charter  dated  7  June,  9  Edward  III.  inspecting  and  confirming 

the  preceding. 

4.  Letters  patent  dated  22  November,  1  Eichard  II.,  inspecting  and 

confirming  a  charter  dated  16th  April,  22  Edward  UI.  ^Charter 
Roll,  22  Edteard  III.  No.  24.]  For  40*.  paid  in  the  hanaper. 

Membrane  6 — cont. 

Feb.  21.  Whereas  Henry  VI.  by  letters  patent  dated  10  October,  37  Henry  VI. 
Westminster,  released  to  Leo  Wellys,  knight,  and  Margaret,  duchess  of  Somerset,  then 
his  wife,  tenants  of  the  manor  of  Bloxam,  co.  Oxford,  the  15/.  yearly 
exacted  from  them  from  the  farm  of  the  said  manor  beyond  the  accustomed 
farm  of  20/,  yearly ;  and  Henry  IV.  by  letters  patent  dated  8  November, 
2  Henry  IV.  granted  to  John,  late  earl  of  Somerset,  his  brother,  all  the 
manors  and  lands  late  of  Owen  de  Glyndordy  in  South  and  North  Wales, 
forfeited  by  reason  of  his  treason,  and  the  same  after  the  death  of  the  said 
earl  descended  to  John,  late  duke  of  Somerset,  his  son,  husband  of  the  said 
duchess,  and  were  by  him  granted  to  John  Stourton,  knight,  William 
Caraunt,  esquire,  and  Gilbert  Kymere,  clerk,  and  others  now  deceased  on 
20  July,  21  Henry  VL  to  execute  his  will;  inasmuch  as  the  said  letters 
are  void  by  reason  of  an  act  in  Parliament  at  Westminster,  4  November, 
the  king  now  grants  to  the  said  John,  William  and  Gilbert  the  said  15/. 
yearly  and  the  said  manors  and  lands  with  royal  rights,  knights'  fees, 
ndvowsons,  franchises,  liberties,  customs,  wards,  marriages,  reliefs,  escheats, 
forfeiturcH,  chases,  parks,  warrens,  wreck  of  sea  and  other  profits  from 
Michaelmas,  39  Henry  VI.  for  the  life  of  the  duchess  for  her  use.      By  K. 

Feb.  26.  Ghrant  to  William  Beaufitz  and  his  executors  and  assigns  for  20  years 

Wcstmiiirtcr.  from  Michaelmas  last  of  the  alien  priory  of  Brymesfeld,  co.  Gloucester,  the 
manor  of  Blakenham,  co.  Suffolk,  pared  of  the  alien  priory  of  Okeboume, 
the  priory  of  St.  Helen  in  the  Isle  of  Wight,  co.  Southampton,  the  priory 
or  manor  of  Charleton,  co.  Wilts,  all  lands,  rents  and  services  in  North- 
mundham,  Compton  and  Welegh,  in  the  counties  of  Sussex  and  Southampton, 
formerly  of  the  abbot  of  Lucerne  in  Normandy  alias  Mundam  called  'Lucerne,' 
\he  manors  of  Povyngtou,  co.  Dorset,  and  Wedon  alias  Wedoqbeke,  co, 


1  EDWARD  IV.— Part  V.  151 


1461.  Membrane  6 — cont, 

Northampton,  parcels  of  the  said  alien  priory  of  Okebourne,  the  manor 
called  the  alien  priory  or  house  of  Welles  alias  the  manor  of  WellehaUe^ 
CO.  Norfolk,  and  a  yearly  farm  of  12  marks  which  the  prior  of  Montacnte 
renders  from  an  imp<^t  lately  belonging  to  the  chief  bouse  of  the  priory 
beyond  seas,  provided  that  he  account  at  the  Exchequer  for  any  surplus 
from  the  above  beyond  1,000/.  By  K. 

Dec.  23.  Grant  to  John  Hodelston,  knight,  and  his  heirs  and  assigns  of  all  lands, 

Wwtminster.  rents  and  services  lately  belonging  to  Thomas,  lord  of  Clifford,  in  Skelton 

and  Lamunby,  co.  Cumberland,  to  the  value  of  20/.  yearly,  in  the  king's 

bands  by  reason  of  the  rebellion  and    forfeiture  of  John,  late  lord  of 

Clifford,  son  of  the  preceding.  By  p.s. 

March  20.        Grant  for  life  to  Thomas  Dixson,  servant  of  the  king's  cellar,  of  the 

Westminster,  office  of  bailiff  of  the  town  of  Sandwich,  receiving  the  accustomed  fees  from 

the  issues  of  the  office.  By  p.s. 

1462. 

Feb.  20.  The  like  to  John  Chapman,  yeoman  of  the  king's  chamber,  of  the  offices 

Westminster,  of  keeper  of  the  king's  manor  of  Plesaunco  in  Estgrenewiche,  co.  Kent,  the 

little  garden  of  the  manor  with  the  orchard,  the  great  garden,  and  the  park 

with  the  tower  there,  receiving  2d.  3</.,  6d,  and  2d.  daily  from  the  respective 

offices  from  the  issues  of  the  county,  with  all  other  profits.  By  p.s. 

1461. 

July  27.  The  like  to  the  king's  servitor  Thomas  Gower  sou  of  Thomas  Gower 

Westminster,  late  of  Sydenham   of  the  office  of  riding  forester  of  the  king's  forest  of 

Galtras  with  such  fees  as  his  father  had.  By  p.s. 

Membrane  5, 
1462. 

Feb.  26.  Grant  to  Thomas  Burgh,  one  of  the  esquires  of  the  body,  and  the  heirs 

Westminster,  male  of  his  body  of  the  manors  of  Crofte,  Thorpe,  Grolthawe,  Skelyng- 
hoape,  Faldyngworth  and  Sotby,  co.  Lincoln,  and  all  lands  and  possessions 
in  those  places  late  of  William  Tail  boys,  knight,  in  the  king's  hands  by 
reason  of  an  act  of  forfeiture  in  Parliament  at  Westminster,  4  November, 
with  knights'  fees,  advowsons,  courts  leet,  views  of  frank  pledge,  parks, 
warrens,  lairB,  markets  and  all  other  profits.  By  p.s. 

1461. 

Dec.  13.  Grant  to  Thomas  Herbert,  one  of  the  esquires  of  the  body,  and  his  heirs 

Westminster,  and  assigns  of  a  messuage  called  *  Garlik '  with  a  garden  annexed  in  Breke- 

strete  in  the  parish  of  btebbnbuth,   co.  Middlesex,  rendering  to  the  king 

3*.  6cf.  yearly.  By  p.s. 

Dec  3.  Licence  for  William  Stourton,  clerk,  to  found  a  chantry,  to  be  called 

Westminster.  <  William  Stoarton's  Chaunterie,'  of  one  chaplain  to  celebrate  divine  service 
daily  at  the  altar  of  Holy  Trinity,  St.  Mary  the  Virgin  and  St  Anne  in  the 
church  of  Lngwardyn  for  the  good  estate  of  the  king,  the  said  William, 
Walter  Devereux,  knight,  lord  of  Ferrers,  and  Anne  his  wife,  Thomas 
Brugge,  esquire,  and  John  Welforde  and  Isabel  his  wife  and  for  their  souls 
after  death  and  for  the  souls  of  Richard,  late  duke  of  York,  Edmund,  late 
)ord  qf  Butland,  and  the  relations  and  benefactors  of  the  said  Witiiam ;  and 
for  th^  said  chaplain  to  acquire  in  mortmain,  after  inquisition,  lands  and 
other  possessions,  not  held  in  chief,  to  the  value  of  8  marks  yearly. 

By  p.s. 

May  6.  Grant    for  life  to  the  king's  kinsman  George,  bishop  of  Exeter,   from 

fVestminster.  4  March  last  of  the  custody  of  the  king's  manors  of  Wodestoke,  Hanburgb, 

Wotton  and  JStonefeld,  co.  Oxford,  with  their  members,  hamlets  and  other 

profits,  and  of  the  hundred  of  Wotton,  in  the  same  ooimty,  in  like  mannef 


152  CALENDAR  OP  PATENT  ROLLS, 


1461.  Membrane  5 — cont, 

as  John,  late  earl  of  Shi*ew8bury,  and  Ralph  de  Sudeley,  knig^ht,  had  it, 
rendering  to  the  king  127/.  16«.  6d.  yearly  and  supporting  all  charges,  except 
100*.  yearly  to  be  paid  from  the  issues  of  the  manors  and  hundred  to  the 
lieutenant  or  steward  of  the  courts,  certain  other  fees  and  annuities  granted 
to  divers  persons,  and  the  repairs  of  the  houses  and  mills  of  the  manors 
and  the  enclosure  of  the  park  of  Wodestoke,  with  allowance  for  any  such 
charges  to  be  made  by  him.  By  K. 

Dec.  4.  Grant  for  life  to  John  Harryce,  yeoman  of  the  king's  larder,  of  the  oiRce 

WMtminster.  of  groom  of  the  king's  beds  within  his  castle  of  Wyndesore,  lately  held  by 
William  Austyn,  son  of  John  Austyn,  yeoman  of  the  beds  within  the  castle, 
with  wages  of  3r/.  daily  at  the  hands  of  the  constable  of  the  castle. 

By  p.s. 

Nov.  28.         Mandate  to  all  bailiffs  and  others  to  permit  John  Lesours,  a  native  of 
Westminster.  Edynburgh  in  Scotland,  ttaying  at  the  city  of  Norwich,  who  has  taken 
the  oath  of  fealty,  to  inhabit  the  realm  peaceably  and  enjoy  his  goods. 

MbMBRANB  4  AND  3. 

Dec.  10.  Inspeximus  and  confirmation  to  the  prior  and  convent  of  BusUesham  of 

Westminster,  a  charter  dated  3  February,  13  Edward  III.  ^Charter  Roll,  13  Edward  II L 
JVb.  11],  inspecting  and  confirming  with  additions  a  charter  dated  22  April, 
11  Edward  111.  [Charter  Boll,  11  Edward  111  No,  15.] 

For  2Qs,  paid  in  tho  hanaper. 

1462.  Membrane  8 — cont. 

Feb.  10.  Grant  for  life  to  Adam  Goodale,  one  of  the  yeomen  of  the  crown,  of  the 

Westminster,  office  and  custody  of  the  king's  vineyard  by  his  castle  of  Wyndesore,  other- 
wise called  the  office  of  master  vintner  of  his  vineyard,  and  the  office  of 
porter  of  the  outer  gate  of  the  castle,  with  fees  as  in  the  times  of  Edward 
ill.  and  Richard  11.  from  24  April  last  at  the  hands  of  the  constable 
of  the  casUe,  in  lieu  of  grants  to  him  of  the  office  and  custody  of  the  great 
garden  of  Wyndesore  by  letters  patent  dated  24  April  and  the  office  of 
porter  of  Wyndesore  by  other  letters  patent,  surrendered.  By  p.8. 

Vacated  by  surrender  and  cancelled,  so  far  as  the  office  of  porter  of  the 
outer  gate  is  concerned,  because  the  king  granted  the  same  to  Christopher 
Fumeys  by  other  letters,  26  November,  7  Edward  IV. 

1461. 

Oct.  11.  The  like  to  the  king's  servant  John  Wild  of  the  office  of  the  king's 

Westminster,   tapestry,  receiving  the  accustomed  fees  and  vesture  at  Christmas  at  the 

Lands  of  the  keeper  of  the  great  wardrobe.  By  p^. 

Nov.  5.  The  like  to  Edward  Gk>wer,  from  1 3  May  last,  of  the  office  of  clerk  of 

Westminster,   the  king's  works  within  his  manor  and  park  of  Clary ngdon,  co.  Wilts, 

receiving  \2d.  daily  with  all  other  profits  from  the  issues  of  the  county  of 

Wilts.  By  K. 

Vacated  because  below. 

Dec.  20.  The  like  to  the  king's  servant  William  Philpotte  of  the  custody  of  the 

Westminster,   park,  warren  and  manor  of  Bremmore  with  the  bailiwick  {balliagio)  of  the 

towns  of  Oldelymyngton  and  Newelymyngton,  co.  Southampton,  receiving 

the  accustomed  fees  with  all  other  profits  at  the  hands  of  the  receivers  and 

farmers  there.  By  p.s. 

Dec.  4.  The  like  to  the  king's  servitor  John  Luthyngton  that  he  be  auditor  of  all 

Westminster,   castles,  lordships,  manors  and  tenements  of  the   honour  and  earldom  of 

Richemond,  with  the  accustomed  fees  irom  the  issues  of  the  same.      By  p.8. 

1462. 

Feb.  24.         Grant  to  Creorge,  bishop  of  Exeter,  of  the  custody  of  all  lands,  rents  and  ser- 
Westtminstcr.  Tices  late  of  John  Kylygrewe,  *  gentilman,'  deceased,  tenant  in  chief,  during 


1  EDWARD  IV.— Part  V.  153 


1462.  Membrane  S^ont. 

the  minority  of  Thomas  hie  son  and  heir,  with  the  marriage  of  the  latter, 
and  eo  from  heir  to  heir  if  the  heir  die  during  minority.  By  K. 

1461. 

May  13.         Grant  for  life  to  Edward  Gower  of  the  office  of  clerk  of  the  king's  works 
Westminster,   within  his  manor  and  park  of  Claryngdou,  co.  Wilts,  receiving  I2d,  daily 
with  all  other  accustomed  profits  from  the  issues  of  the  county  of  Wilts. 

ByK. 
Mandate  in  pursuance  to  the  sheriff  of  Wilts. 

1462.  MSMBRANSS  2   AND   1. 

Feb.  12.         Tnspeximus  and  confirmation  to  Bobert  Botill,  the  prior,  and  the  brethren 
Westminster,   of  the  Hospital  of  St.  John  of  Jerusalem  in  England  of  the  following  :  — 

1.  Letters  patent  dated  12  May,    1   Bichard  II.  inspecting  and    con- 

firming to  Bobert  Hales,  then  prior,  and  the  brethren  a  charter 
dated  1  July,  34  Edward  III.  being  an  exemplification  of  a  charter 
dated  10  February,  2  Edward  III.  itself  an  exemplification  of  a 
charter  dated  York,  30  June,  1  Edward  III.  inspecting  and  con- 
firming a  charter  dated  at  Chertsey,  22  September,  2  Edward  II. 
[  Charier  Bollj  2  Edward  II,  No,  45,]  inspecting  and  confirming 
a  charter  dated  8  June,  8  Edward  L  {^Charter  Roll,  8  Edward  I. 
Nos.  43  and  44,]  inspecting  and  confirming  charters  dated  at 
Winchester,  20  and  23  June,  37  Henry  III. 

2.  A  charter  dated  10  April,  4  Bichard  II.  [Charter  Roily  4  Richard  II. 

No,  8.]  For  20  marks  paid  in  the  hanaper. 

Membrane  1 — cont. 

Feb.  20.  Grant  to  Walter  Devereuz,  knight,  lord  Ferrers,  whom  the  king  has 

Westminster,  raised  to  the  estate  of  a  baron,  and  the  heirs  male  of  his  body,  for  his  good 
service  against  Henry  VI.  and  his  accomplices,  and  Henry,  duke  of  Exeter, 
Jasper,  earl  of  Pembroke,  James,  earl  of  Wilts,  and  other  rebels,  of  the 
manor  and  lordship  of  Sutton  Courteney,  and  theadvowson  of  the  church  of 
Sutton  Courtenay,  co.  Berks,  the  manor  of  Hillesdou  alias  Hildesdon,  co. 
Buckingham,  and  all  other  lands  and  possessions  in  those  counties  late  of 
Thomas  Courteney,  late  earl  of  Devon,  with  knights'  fees,  advowsons,  courts 
leet,  views  of  frank  pledge,  liberties,  warrens,  fairs,  markets  and  all  other 
profits  from  Michaelmas  last,  to  the  yearly  value  of  132/.,  a  moiety  of  the 
castle  called  '  Bichardis  Castell,'  in  the  counties  of  Hereford  and  Salop,  of 
the  yearly  value  of  40  marks,  lately  belonging  to  William  Yaux,  knight, 
the  manors  of  Oxenhale,  Graunsomysocle  and  Coldaston,  co.  Gloucester,  with 
the  advowsons  of  their  churches  and  chapels,  of  the  yearly  value  of  28/.,  and 
the  manor  of  Long  Compton,  co.  Warwick,  with  the  advowson  of  the 
church  there,  of  the  yearly  value  of  20/.,  late  of  James,  late  earl  of  Wilts, 
and  the  manor  of  Tiltou,  co.  Leicester,  with  the  advowson  of  the  church 
there,  of  the  yearly  value  of  20/.,  lat«  of  Everard  Dygby,  esquire,  in  the 
king's  hands  by  reason  of  an  act  of  forfeiture  in  Parliament  at  Westminster, 
4  November,  the  manors  of  Broughton,  co.  Buckingham,  and  Sywell,  co. 
Northampton,  to  the  yearly  values  of  20/.  and  6/.  6«.  8</.  respectively, 
and  the  reversion  of  the  manor  of  Lyvedon,  co.  Northampton,  on  the  death 
of  William  Aldewyncle,  esquire,  which  should  remain  to  Thomas  Tresham, 
knight,  rebel,  of  the  yearly  value  of  100  marks.  By  p.8. 

1461. 

Nov.  19.        Inspeximu9  and  confirmation  to  the  warden  and  college  of  the  king's  free 

Westminiter.  chapel  of  St.  George,  Wyndesore,  of  letters  patent  26  October,  25  Edward 

III.  being  a  grant  to  them  of  100  marks  yearly  from  the  farm  of  the  town 


154  CALENDAR  OF  PATENT  BOLLS. 


1461.  Membrane  1 — cont. 

of  Norhampton,  formerly  granted  to  Roger  de  Bello  Campo  and  Sybil  his 
wife. 

Dec.  3.  Grant  in  fee  simple  to  John  Hodilston,  knight,  of  all  lands  and  posses- 

Westminster,   sions  belonging  to  Richard  Kyrkeby,  esquire,  within  the  realm,  to  the  Talne 

of  40  marks  yearly.  By  p.6. 

1462. 

Feb.  19.         Grant  for  life  to  Ralph  Clyderowe  of  the  town  of  Calais  of  the  office  of 
WestminBter.  ranger  of  the  king's  forest  of  Whichewode,  co.  Oxford,  from  8  July  last, 
with  fees  of  4c?.  daily  from  the  issues  of  the  countieB  of  Oxford  and  Berks. 

By  p.s. 

Membrane  15cf« 

Feb.  5.  Commission  to  John  Stourton  of  Stourton,  knight,  John  Ne^eburgh  the 

Westmin'ster.   elder,  Thomas  Husee  the  elder  and  Walter  Othe  to  deliver  the  gaol  of 

Dorcestre  of  John  Davy  alias  Barrey  late  of  Chirchelambhithe,  co.  Surrey, 

'  yoman,'  and  Richard  Castell  alias  Steyner  late  of  Hoddesdon,  co.  Hertford, 

*  yoman,'  prisoners  there. 

Feb.  5.  Commission  to  John  Markham,  knight,  William  Yelverton,  knight,  and 

Westminster.  Richard  Byngham  to  examine  the  judgment  of  a  record  and  process  of  a  plea 
before  Henry  Frowyk,  late  mayor  of  London,  and  Robert  Clopton  and  Thomas 
Catworth,  sheriff,  in  the  late  reign  between  Simon  Sely  and  Walter  Cotton 
concerning  a  messuage  in  the  parish  of  St.  Giles  without  Crepulgate  in  the 
suburbs  of  London,  and  to  correct  any  error  there  may  be,  as  is  alleged  by 
Thomas  Cotton,  kinsman  and  heir  of  the  said  Walter,  at  the  church  of  St. 
Martin  le  Grand,  London. 


155 


1  EDWARD  IV.—Paet  VL 


MEUBRAlfSS  39  AND  38. 
1461. 

Dec.  3.  Inspeanmus  and  confirmfttion  to  the  prior  and  convent  of  the  house  of  the 

Westminster.  Visitation  of  St.  Mary  of  the  Carthnsian  order,  Eppeworth,  in  the  Isle  of 
Axihohn,  co.  Lincoln,  of  the  following : — 

1.  Letters  patent  dated  7  July,  19  Richard  II.  being  a  licence  for  the 

foundation  of  the  house. 

2.  Letters  patent  dated  26  June,  20  Richard  IL  [Moftasticon,'} 

3.  A  charter  dated  21  May,  22  Richard  II.  [Charter  Roily  21-28  Richard 

IL  No,  2],  granting  to  them  divers  liberties. 

4.  Letters  patent  dated  23  May,  23  Richard  II.  being  a  licence  for  the 

acquisition  in  mortmain  by  them  from  the  abbot  and  convent  of  Sulby 
of  certain  lands. 

5.  Letters  patent  of  the  same  date,  being  a  licence  for  the  appropriation 

in  mortmain  by  them  of  the  church  of  Wythebrok,  co,  Warwick. 
And  grant  to  them  of  a  tun  or  two  pipes  of  Gascon  wine  yearly  in  the  port 
of  Kyngeston  on  Hull,  and  licence  for  the  acquisition  by  them  in  frank 
almoin,  after  inquisition,  of  lands,  tenements,  rents  and  service,  not  held  in 
cliief,  to  the  value  of  .50/.  yearly,  to  pray  for  the  good  estate  of  the  king 
and  for  his  soul  after  death.  For  20s.  paid  in  the  hanaper. 

Membrane  37. 

Dec.  17.  Tnspeximus  and  confirmation  to  the  bailiffs  and  burgesses  of  Derby  of  a 

Westminster,  charter  dated  at  Coventry,  8  September,  38  Henry  VI.  \^Charter  Roll,  27-39 

Henry  VI.  No.  8,]  being  a  licence  for  them  to  choose  a  recorder  and  a  grant 

to  them  of  divers  liberties.  By  K.  and  for  26«.  8</.  paid  in  the  hanaper. 

Membrane  36. 

Dec.  3.  Inspextmus  and  confirmation  to  the  prior  and  convent  of  Beauvale,  co. 

Westminster.  Nottingham,  of  the  Carthusian  order,  of  a  charter  dated  22  June,  2  Richard 
II.  [Charter  Roll,  2  Richard  IL  No.  8],  inspecting  and  confirming  the 
following : — 

1.  A  charter  dated  at  Windsor,  20  March,  19  Edward  III.  [Charter  Boll, 

19  Edward  IIL  No.  21.] 

2.  Letters  patent  dated  6  September  37  Edward  III. 

And  grant  to  them  of  two  tuns  of  the  better  red  wine  of  Gascony  yearly  at 
All  Saints  in  the  port  of  Kyngeston  on  Hull ;  and  grant  to  them  in  frank 
almoin  from  Michaelmas,  3  Edward  IV.,  of  the  rectory  and  parish  church  of 
Bondeby,  in  the  diocese  of  Lincoln,  10*.  of  rent  from  a  bovate  of  land  in 
Saxby  formerly  held  by  Henry  Martyn,  5^d.  of  rent  from  a  bovate  of  land  in 
Bondeby  formerly  held  by  John  son  of  Benedict  atte  Bekke,  with  a  pension 
of  13*.  4d,  which  the  parson  of  the  church  of  Saxby  used  to  pay  to  the  alien 
prior  of  St.  Fremont  in  Normandy  and  a  pension  of  13*.  4d.  from  the  church 
of  St.  John,  Staunford,  theadvowsons  of  the  churches  of  St.  Peter,  St.  John, 
St.  Paul  and  St.  George,  Staunford,  and  Saxby  and  Grafton,  in  the  said 
diocese  of  Lincoln,  and  all  tithes,  lands  and  profits  of  the  said  rectory  and 
parish  church,  not  exceeding  the  value  of  18  marks  yearly.  Andrew,  then 
prior  of  St.  Fremont,  granted  the  above  to  John  Luscote,  the  prior,  and  the 
convent  of  the  Carthusian  order  near  London  in  the  year  13  Richard  II. 
fvjtbout  licence,  in  the  time  ^ehen  the  said  church  was  ta^en  into  tfte  king'^ 


156  CALENDAR  OF  PATENT  ROLLS. 


1461.  Membrane  36 — cont. 

hands  on  account  of  the  war  with  France,  and  the  king  granted  the  rectory 
to  Walter  Malet,  clerk,  and  Robert  Hastynges  hj  letters  patent  from 
21  June,  5  Richard  II,  and  Michaelmas,  23  Richard  II.  respectively  at 
a  rent  of  12  marks,  which  has  been  answered  for  up  till  Michaelmas, 
3  Edward  lY.  For  1  mark  paid  in  the  hanaper. 

1462.  Mem  BRANS  35. 

Feb.  12.         Intpeximus  and  confirmation  to  Ivo,  the  prior,  and  the  convent  of 
WestmiDster.   Huntyngdon,  of  letters  patent  dated  26  November,  7  Richard  II.  inspecting 
and  confirming  to  Henry,  then  prior,  and  the  convent  the  following : — 

1.  A  charter  dated  at  Ramesey,  7  April,  1  Edward  III.  [Charter  Roll^  1 

Edward  IIL  No.  64,]  inspecting  and  confirming  the  following : — 
(I .)  A  charter  dated  at  Winchester,  28  December,  35  Henry  III. 
(2.)  A  charter  dated  30  May,  37  Henry  III.  IMonasticon.'] 

2.  Letters  patent  dated  ^4  August,  33  Henry  III.  being  a  release  to  them 

of  a  quarter  of  oats  paid  yearly  by  their  men  of  Hereford  for 
cheminage. 

3.  Letters  patent  dated  II  February,  51  Edward  III.  being  a  licence  for 

the  appropriation  in  mortmain  by  them  of  the  church  of  Suthoo  with 
the  chapel  of  Haileweston.  For  2  marks  paid  in  the  hanaper. 

Feb.  16.         Inspeanmus  and  confirmation  to  the  mayor,  bailiffs  and  conmionalty  of  the 

Westminster,  city  of  Winchester  of  letters  patent  dated  1  February,  30  Henry  VI.  being 

a  grant  to  them  for  50  years  of  40  marks  yearly  from  the  issues  of  the  nlnage 

and  subsidy  of  cloths  within  the  said  city  and  suburb  and  the  soke  there  and 

elsewhere  within  the  county  of  Southampton. 

For  4  marks  paid  in  the  hanaper. 

Feb.  20.         InspeximuB  and   confirmation   to  the  prior    and  Friars  Preachers  of 
Westminster.  Childerlangele    of   letters    patent    dated   20  November,    4  Richard   II. 
inspecting  and  confirming  letters  patent  dated  12  April,  32  Edward  III. 
being  a  grant  to  them  of  four  tuns  of  wine  yearly  in  the  port  of  London. 

For  \  mark  paid  in  the  hanaper. 

14gl^  Membranes  34-32. 

Dec.  3.  Inspeximus  and  confirmation  to  the  prior  and  convent  of  Henton,  co. 

Westminster.  Somerset,  of  the  Carthusian  order,  of  the  following  : — 

1.  A  charter    dated    18  January,    1    Richard   II.    [Charier    Roll^    1 
Richard  IL  No,  20],  inspecting  and  confirming  the  following  : — 
(I.)  A  charter  dated  26  October,  19  Edward  III.,  inspecting  and 
confirming  with  additions  a  charter  dated  8  June,  21  Henry  III. 
[ChaHer  Rally  21  Henry  IIL  ni  5.] 
(2.)  A  charter  dated  24  November,  22  Edward  I.  [Charter  Roily 
22  Edward  I.  No.  47,]  inspecting  and  confirming  a  charter 
dated  7  September,  24  Henry  III.  [Monasticon.'] 
(3.)  A    charter  dated  at  Berwick  on  Tweed,  25   August,  24 

Edward  I. 
(4.)  Letters  patent  dated  8  February,  3  Edward  II. 
(5.)  Letters  patent  dated  20  July,  12  Edward  II. 
(6.)  Letters  patent  dated  14  April,  32  Edward  III. 
^7.)  Letters  patent  dated  5  October,  29  Edward  IIL 
•  (8.)  Letters  patent  dated  1  November,  37  Edward  III. 
(9.)  A  charter  dated  at  Clarendon,  22  August^  13   Edward   I. 

[Charter  Roll,  13  Edward  L  No.  24.] 
(10.)  A  charter  dated  18  May,  17  Edward  III.  [Charter  Roll,  17 
Edward  IIL  No.  22.] 


1  EDWARD  IV.^Pabt  VI.  157 


14(}1^  Membranes  34-32— cw*^. 

(]  1.)  A  charter  dated  1  May,  27  Edward  III. 
(12.)  A  charter  dated  23  October,  19  Edward  III. 
2.  A  charter  dated  27  October,  43  Henry  III.    [Charter  Boll,  43 

Henry  III.  m.  1]. 
And  ^ant  to  them  of  a  tun  of  wine  yearly  in  the  port  of  Bristol  and  also 
a  tun  of  sweet  wine,  *  bastard '  or  *  oseie  *  as  they  may  choose,  yearly  in  the 
said  port  for  the  sustenance  of  their  bodies  weakened  by  their  vigils  and 
fasts,  that  they  may  pray  for  the  good  estate  of  the  king  and  for  his  soul 
afler  death  and  for  the  souls  of  his  progenitors. 

By  K.  and  for  1  mark  paid  in  the  hanaper. 

JfEMBRASBS  32-29. 

Dec.  3.  Inspeximus  and  confirmation  to  the  prior  and  convent  of  Witham,  co. 

WestminBter.  Somerset,  of  the  Carthusian  order,  of  a  charter  dated  12  January,  1  Richard 
II.  [Charter  Roll^  1  Richard  11.,  No.  19],  inspecting  and  confirming  the 
following : — 

1.  A  charter  dated  5  May,  17  Edward  III.  [Charter  Roll,  17  Edward 

III,  No.  23,]  inspecting  and  confirming  the  following : — 

(1.)  A  charter  of  Henry  II.  [Moruuticon.'] 

(2.)  A  charter  dated  26  February,  14  Edward  I.  ICharter  Roll, 
14  Edward  I.  No.  31],  inspecting  and  confirming  a  charter  of 
Edmund,  earl  of  GornwaU,  dated  at  Bercamstede,  Thursday 
after  the  translation  of  St.  Thomas  the  Martyr,  13  Edward  I. 

(3.)  A  charter  dated  at  Berwick  on  Tweed,  25  August,  24  Edward 
I.     [Charter  Roll,  24  Edward  I.  No.  2.] 

(4.)  Letters  patent  dated  8  February,  3  Edward  II. 

(5.)  Letters  patent  dated  20  July;  12  Edward  II. 

2.  Letters  patent  dated  14  April,  32  Edward  III. 

3.  Letters  patent  dated  12  March,  49  Henry  III. 

4.  Letters  patent  dated  28  August,  1 1  Edward  I. 

5.  Letters  patent  dated  20  May,  11  Edward  II. 

0.  A  charter  dated  26  October,  19  Edward  III.  [Charter  Roll,  19 
Edward  III.  No.  4,]  inspecting  and  confirming  with  additions  the  said 
charter  of  Henry  II. 

7.  Letters  patent  dated  20  October,  36  Edward  III. 

8.  Letters  patent  dated  2  November,  37  Edward  III. 

And  confirmation,  in  addition,  of  divers  specified  liberties  granted  to  them 
by  Henry  III.  By  E.  and  for  1  mark  paid  in  the  hanaper. 

MsMBRANS  29 — cont. 

1462. 

Feb.  12.  Inspeximus  and  confirmation  to  the  men  and  tenants  of  the  hundred  of 

Westminster.  Rocheford,  co.   Essex,  of  letters  patent  dated  20  May,   16  Edward  III. 

pardoning  them  for  certain  trespasses.  For  ^  mark  paid  in  the  hanaper. 


Membranes  29-27. 
1461. 

Dec.  3.  Inspeximus  and  confirmation  to  the  prior  and  convent  of  St.  Anne's  by 

Westminster.  Coventry,  of  the  Carthusian  order,  of  the  following : — 

1.  A  charter   dated  21    May,  22   Richard  11.   [Charter  Roll,  21-23 

Richard  II.  No.  2,]  granting  to  them  divers  liberties. 

2.  Letters  patent  dated  8  March,  10  Richard  II.  being  a  licence  for  the 

acquisition  in  mortmain  by  them  of  possessions  Of  aliens  in  England 
to  the  value  of  601.  yearly. 


MB  OALIKPAB  OF  PATINT  BULLS. 


1461  #  Membranes  29^27 — €ont, 

3.  Letters  patent  dated  14  December,  14  Eichard  II.  beiog  a  release  to 

them  of  24  marks  yearly  to  be  paid  for  the  manor  or  priory  of 
Edi  weston,  co.  Rutland,  granted  to  tbem  by  the  abbot  and  convent  of 
St.  George,  Bauquierville,  in  Normandy,  in  the  diocese  of  Rouen. 

4.  Letters  patent  dated  19  November,  17  Richard  IL,  being  a  licence  for 

the  abbot  and  convent  of  St.  Sergius  and  St.  Bacchus  [Angers] 
to  grant  to  them  the  manors  of  Swavesey  and  Drie  Drayton  and 
the  advowson  of  the  church  of  Swavesey,  saving  a  certain  rent. 
{^Monastieon.'] 

5.  Letters  patent  dated  21  May,  22  Richard  IL  releasing  to  them  the 

said  rent.  [Manasticon.'} 
And  grant  to  them  in  frank  almoin  of  the  said  manors  of  Swavesey  and  Drie 
Drayton  ;  grant  to  them  of  the  little  wood  of  Graveuhowe  called  *  le  Over- 
wode  and  le  Netherwode,'  and  the  little  wood  called  '  Bilhagwode,'  extended 
at  2s.  and  ISd.  yearly  respectively,  which  were  taken  into  the  king's  hands 
on  18  February,  36  Edward  III.  because  Thomas  Furnyvall,  tenant  in 
chief  of  the  c^astle  and  manor  of  Sheffield,  of  which  they  were  parcel, 
alienated  them  without  licence  to  the  prior  of  Ecdesfeld  in  exchange  for 
the  tithes  of  his  mills  in  Halumshire  in  the  time  of  Edward  I.  as 
appears  by  an  inquisition  made  before  William  Neffeld,  escheator  in  the 
county  of  York,  in  the  time  of  Henry  IV.  quit  of  the  rent  of  4*.  for  which 
they  were  granted  to  Robert,  late  prior  of  the  said  house,  for  30  years  by 
letters  patent  of  21  October,  14  Richard  II. ;  grant  to  them  of  two  tuns 
of  wine  yeaiiy  at  Michaelmas  in  the  port  of  London  and  one  tun  yearly  at 
Martinmas  in  the  port  of  Bristol ;  licence  for  the  acquisition  in  mortmain 
by  them,  after  inquisition,  of  lands,  tenements  and  rents  to  the  value  of 
40/.  yearly  ;  and  grant  to  them  of  a  tun  of  wine  yearly  at  Martinmas  in 
the  port  of  Bristqji. 

By  K.  and  for  1  mark  paid  in  the  hanaper. 

Membranes  26  and  25. 

Dec.  7.  Inspeximus  and  confirmation  to  the  abbot  and  convent  of  the  place  of 

Westminster.  St.  Edward  called  *  Lettele  '  of  the  following: — 

1.  A  charter  dated  at  Norwich,  20  March,  35  Henry  III.  [Charter  Roll^ 

35  Henry  III.  m.  10.] 

2.  A  charter  dated  at  Portsmouth,  4  July,  37  Henry  III.,  being  a  grant  to 

them  in  frank  almoin  of  3  carucates  of  land  of  100  acres  each  in  the 
New  Forest  within  specified  bounds,  with  licence  to  enclose  and 
cultivate  the  same. 

3.  A  charter  dated  at  Westmmster,  12  April,  40  Henry  III.  being  a 

licence  for  them  to  enclose  the  same  against  the  king's  deer. 

4.  Letters  patent  dated  20  February,  1  Richard  II.  inspecting  and  con- 

firming a  charter  dated  at  Winchester,  20  March,  4  Edwanl  III. 
inspecting  and  confirming  the  following : — 

(I.)  A  charter  dated  at  Westminster,  28  February,  24  Henry  III. 
(2.)  A  charter  dated  at  Lyndhurst,  1  September,  13  Edward  I. 
[Charter  Roily  13  Edward  I.  No.  18,]  inspecting  and  con- 
firming a  charter  dated  at  Westminster,  7  March,  35  Henry  III. 
[Monasttcon,"] 
(3.)  Grants  by  John  de  Warenna,  earl  of  Surrey,  Robert  de  Veer, 
earl  of  Oxford,  and  Edmund,  earl  of  Cornwall. 

For  20^.  paid  in  the  hanaper. 

Membrane  25 — cant, 

Dec.  10.         Inspeximus  and  confirmation  to  the  cloth  workers  fVom  foreign  parts  of 
Westminster,  letters  patent  dated  4  March,  3  Richard  II.  inspecting  and    confirming 


I  BDWABD  IV.-PAnT  VI.  IM 


J461.  Mefnhrane  25-^eont. 

letters  patent  dated  8  February,  26  Edward  III.  taking  them  under  the 
king's  protection  and  permitting  them  to  exercise  their  mistery  without 
being  compelled  to  join  the  gild  of  weavers  of  London. 

For  40s,  paid  in  the  hanaper. 

Membrane  24. 

Nov.  20.        InspeximuB  and  confirmation  to  the  prior  and  convent  of  St.  Martin's, 
Wefftminster.  Dover,  of  the  following : — 

1.  Letters  patent  dated  29  May,  3  Eichard  IL  being  an  exemplification, 

at  the  request  of  John  Newenham,  then  prior,  of  a  certificate  into 
Chancery  by  the  treasurer  and  barons  of  the  Exchequer  of  pleas  of 
assize  before  Hervey  de  Stanton,  William  de  Ormesby,  Henry 
Spigumell,  John  de  Mutford  and  William  de  Goldyugton,  justices 
in  eyre,  at  Canterbury,  c6.  Kent,  in  the  octave  of  Midsummer, 
6  Edward  II.,  when  the  prior  claimed  view  of  frank  pledge,  amends 
of  breaches  of  the  assize  of  bread  and  ale,  and  wreck  of  sea  in  his 
manor  of  Dale,  and  the  same  and  pillory  and  tumbrel  and  toll  in  the 
town  of  St.  Margaret,  which  were  allowed. 

2.  Letters  patent  dated  30  May,  3  Richard  II.  inspecting  and  confirming 

the  following: — 

(1.)  Letters  patent  dated  4  May,  8  Edward  II.  inspecting  and 
confirming  the  following : — 

a.  A  charter  of  Henry  II.  dated  at  Dover.    [^Motuisticon.'] 

h,  A  charter  dated  at  Westminster,  20  May,  21  Henry  III. 

[^Charter  Molly  21  Henri/  III.  m.  3,]  inspecting  and 

confirming  a  charter  of  Henry  II.  dated  at  Dover. 

(2.)  Letters  patent  dated  20  February,  12  Edward  III.  inspecting 

and  testifying  the  tenor  of  a  record  and  process  before  the 

barons    of   the  Exchequer  in  Trinity    term,    34  Edward  I. 

concerning  a  moiety  of  the  issues  of  the  port  of  Dover  and 

a  third  part  of  the  toll  from  the  Saturday  market,  adjudged 

to  the  prior  and  convent.  For  20s.  paid  in  the  hanaper. 

Membranes  23  and  22. 

Nov.  20.        Inspeximus  and  confirmation  to  the  prior  and  convent  of  Worcester  of 
Westminster,  the  following : — 

I.  A  charter  dated  at  Westminster,  10  March,  17  Richard  II.  [Charter 
Roily  15-17  Richard  II,  No.  2],  inspecting  and  confirming  the 
following : — 

1.  A  charter  dated  at  York,  7  June,  9  Edward  III.  [Charter  Roily 
9  Edward  IIL  No.  49],  inspecting  and  confirming  the 
following : — 

(1.)  A  charter  dated  at  Westminster,  1 9  February,  6  Edward 
II.  [Charier  Roily  6  Edward  II.  No.  26,]  inspecting 
and  confirming  a  charter  of  Edgar.  [Motmsticon.'] 
(2.)  A  charter  dated  Westminster,  3  February,  6  Edward 
II.  [Charter  Roily  6  Edward  IL  No.  27,]  inspecting 
and  confirming  the  following : — 

a.  A  charter  (Saxon)  of  Edward  the  Confessor. 

b.  A  charter  of  WilUam  [I.]. 

c.  -Another  charter  of  the  same. 

d.  A  charter  of  Henry  II.  dated  at  Feccaham. 

e*  A  charter  dated  at  Marlborough,  27  August,  9  John. 
/.  A  charter  dated  at  Woodstock,  16  August,  40  Henry 
IIL 


160  CALENDAR  OP  PATENT  ROLLS, 


X^Ql,  Membranes  23  and  22— cont. 

2.  Letters  patent  dated  8  July,  29  Edward  III.  inspecting  and  con- 

firming a  charter  dated  at  Framlingham,  2  April,40  Henry  III. 

3.  Letters  patent  dated  20  February,  43  Edward  III. 

4.  Letters  patent  of  Henry  II.  dated  at  Westminster,  beinc: 

mandate  to  the  sherifTs  of  Worcestershire,  Shropshire  and 

Warwickshire  to  allow  the  church  of  Worcester  to  hold  its 

pastures  freely  as  in  the  time  of  Henry  I. 

IL  A  charter  dated  at  Woodstock,  28  June,  52  Henry  HI.,  being  a  grant 

to  them  of  a  market  weekly  on  Saturday  at  their  manor  of  Schpesion. 

CO.  Worcester,  and  a  fair  there  yearly  for  three  days  at  St.  Barnabas, 

Witnesses  : — Roger,  bishop  of  Coventry  and  Lichfield.  Roger  de 

Leyburn,  Robert  Walerand,  Robert  Augnyllun,  Walter  de  Merton,' 

Master  John  de   Chyshull,  William   de  Aettc,   Peter   de  Nevill, 

Geoffrey  de  Percy,  William  de  Fakenham,  Stephen  de  Eddewurth, 

Bartholomew  de  Bigod  and  others.         For  40«.  paid  in  the  hanaper. 

MSMBRANSS  21   AND   20. 

Dec.  4.  Inspeximus  and  confirmation  to  John,  the  abbot,  and  the  prior  and  oon- 

Westminster.   vent  of  Glastonbury  of  the  following : — 

J  •  A  charter  dated  at  Woodstock,  31  March,  4  Edward  HI.  {^Charter  Roily 
4  Edward  III,  No.  88],  being  a  grant  to'  them  of  free  warren  in 
certain  demesne  lands  in  the  counties  of  Berks,  Dorset,  Devon  and 
Somerset. 

2.  Letters  patent  dated  12  February,  4  Richard  II.,  inspecting  and  con- 

firming a  charter  dated  at  Westminster,  25  March,  1  Edward  III. 
[^Charter  Holly  1  Edward  III,  No.  67],  inspecting  and  confirming 
a  charter  dated  at  Westminster,  3  April,  6  Edward  II.  [Charter  Molly 
6  Edward  11.  No,  13,]  inspecting  and  confirming  the  following : — 
(K)  A  charter  of  Henry  II.  dated  at  Westminster.  \_Monasticon,'] 
(2.)  A  charter   dated  at  Westminster,  26  May,  11  Henry  III. 

[Charter  Roily  11  Henry  IIL  m.  3.] 
(3.)  A  charter  dated  at  Odyham,  26  June,  8  Edward  I.  [Charter 
Roily  8  Edward  L  No.  39.] 

3.  Letters  patent  dated  5  March,  1  Richard  II.  inspecting  and  confirm- 

ing to  John  Chynnok,  then  abbot,  and  the  prior  and  convent  letters 
X>atent  dated  27  February,  3  Edward  III.  notifying  that  the  king 
had  granted  to  Adam  de  Sobbury,  then  abbot,  that  the  prior  and 
convent  shall  havb  the  custody  of  the  abbey  during  voidance  at  a 
certain  rate.  For  6  marks  6;.  %d.  paid  in  the  hanaper. 

Mbmbranb  19. 

Dec.  20.  Inspeximus  and  confirmation  to  the  citizens  of  Worcester  of  a  charter 

WestminBter.  dated  at  York,  29  March,  19  Richaid  II.  [ Charter  Roily  1 8-19  Richard  IL 
No,  4],  inspecting  and  confirming  with  additions  letters  patent  dated  1 
April,  1  Richard  II.  inspecting  and  confirming  letters  patent  dated  2  April, 
51  Edward  III.  inspecting  and  confirming  with  additions  a  charter  dated 
at  Oseney,  12  July,  4  Edward  III.  [Charter  Roll,  4  Edward  III  No.  61,] 
inspecting  and  confirming  a  charter  dated  at  Oxford,  30  March,  48  Henry 
III.  [Charter  Roll,  48  Henry  III,  m.  2.]      For  40*.  paid  in  the  hanaper. 

Membranbs  18-15. 

July  19.  Inspeximus  and  confirmation  to  John  Ives,  the  prior,  and  the  convent 

Westminster,  of  the  house  of  Jesus  of  Bethlehem,  Shene,  of  the  Carthusian  order,  of  the 
following: — 

1.  A  charier  dated  at  Westminster,  1  April,  3  Henry  V.  [Charter  Roily 
3-4  Henry  V,  No,  8  and  Monasticon ;] 


1  EDWARD  IV.— Part  VI.  161 


1461.  Membranes  18-15 — cont. 

2.  Letters  patent  dated  20  March,  20  Heniy  VI.,  being  a  grant  to  them 

in  frank  almoin  of  64  acres  of  land  in  Shene,  parcel  of  the  manor  of 

Shene  ; 

that  thej  may  pray  for  the  good  estate  of  the  king  and  Cicely  his  mother 

and  for  their  souls  after  death  and  the  seals  of  the  king's  father  Bichard, 

late  duke  of  York,  and  his  progenitors. 

By  p.s.  and  for  12  marks  paid  in  the  hanaper. 

Mbmbranbs  14  AND  13. 

1462. 

Feb.  22.  Inspeximus  and  confirmation  to  Robert,  the  prior,  and  the  convent  of 

WMtmioster.  Mountgrace,  of  the  Carthusian  order,  of  a  charter  dated  at  Westminster,  20 
March,  22  Richard  II.  [Charter  Roll,  21-23  Richard  11.  No.  2] ;  and 
grant  to  them  in  addition  that  they  may  have  free  warren  in  their  demesne 
lands  and  all  waifs  and  strays,  and  may  hold  their  possessions  quit  of  tenths 
and  fifteenths ;  grant  in  frank  almoin  to  them  of  the  alien  priory  of 
Longebenyngton,  co.  Lincoln,  and  Fildallyng,  co.  Norfolk,  parcel  of  the 
same,  lately  belonging  to  the  abbot  and  convent  of  Savigny  (Seveniac)  in 
Normandy,  the  aUen  priory  of  Hagh,  co.  Lincoln,  lately  belonging  to  the 
abbot  and  convent  of  Cherbourg  {Burgh  Cesaris)  in  Normandy,  the  alien 
priory  of  Myntyng,  co.  Lincoln,  lately  belonging  to  the  monastery  or  house 
of  St.  Benedict  on  the  Leyre  in  France,  and  the  alien  priory  of  Hynkeley^ 
CO.  Leicester,  late  parcel  of  the  possessions  of  the  abbey  of  St.  Mary, 
Lire  in  Normandy,  with  all  manors,  hamlets,  lands,  churches,  courts, 
knights'  fees,  advowsons  and  other  possessions  and  appurtenances  thereto 
pertaining,  with  a  provision  of  100/.  yearly  at  the  Exchequer,  should  they 
be  ousted  from  the  same,  until  provision  be  made  to  them  of  lands  to  the 
same  value  ;  licence  for  them  to  incorporate  the  said  priory  of  Hynkeley ; 
grant  to  them  of  two  tunn  of  the  better  red  wine  of  Gascony  yearly  at  Mar- 
tinmas in  the  port  of  K3mgeston  on  Hull ;  and  licence  for  the  acquisition  in 
mortmi^  by  them,  after  inquisition,  of  lands  and  tenements,  not  held  in 
chief,  to  the  yearly  value  of  40/.     By  K.  and  for  1  mark  paid  in  the  hanaper. 

MSMBRANBS   12-9. 

Jan.  12.  Inspeximus  and  confirmation  to  Richard^  the  bishop,  and  the  dean  and 

W efltmiBiter.  chapter  of  Salisbury  of  a  charter  dated  at  Westminster,  13  March,  17  Richard 
II.  \  Charter  Boll,  15-17  Richard  IL,  No.  o,]  inspecting  and  confirming  with 
additions  to  John,  then  bishop,  and  the  dean  and  chapter  the  following : — 

1.  A  charter  dated  at  Westminster,  22  March,  11  Henry  III.,  inspecting 

and  confii'ming  a  charter  dated  at  Falaise,  4  June,  2  John  [Mon^ 
asticon"]. 

2.  A  charter  dated  at  Westminster,  12  June,  13  Edward  I.  [Charter  Roll, 

13  Edward  /.,  No,  74,]  inspecting  and  confirming  to  Walter,  then 
bishop,  and  the  canons  and  citizens  of  Salisbury,  a  charter  dated 
at  Westminster,  30  January,  11  Henry  III.  [Monasticon,^ 

3.  A  charter  dated  at  Stamford,  12  April,  2  Edward  III.  [Charter  Roll, 

2  Edtoard  IILf  No.  71,]  inspecting  and  confirming  with  additions 
a  charter  dated  at  Doncaster,  15  December,  9  Edward  II.,  inspecting 
and  confirming  with  additions  a  charter  dated  at  Westminster,  28 
May,  34  Edward  I.  [Charter  Roll,  34  Edward  /.,  No.  27.] 

4.  A  charter  dated,  13  July,  2  Richard  II.  [Charter  Roll,  2  Richard  II., 

No,  10,]  inspecting  and  confirming  to  Ralph,  then  bishop,  and  the 

dean  and  chapter  the  following  : — 

(I.)  A.  charter  of  Henry  II.  dated  at  Salisbury.     [Monasticon."] 
(2.)  A  charter  dated  at  Windsor,  28  July,  3  Edward  III.  [Charter 
Rollf  3  Edward  IIL  No.   31,]  inspecting    and  confirming 

n    86914.  I. 


162  CALENDAR  OF  PATENT  BOLLS. 


14g2,  Membranes  12-9 — cont. 

to    Boger,    then    bishop,    and    the    dean    and  chapter   the 
following : — , 

a.  A  charter  dated  at  Westminster,  23  March,  11  Henry  III. 

6.  Letters  patent  dated  at  Windsor,  19  December,  11  Edward 

II.  For  20/.  paid  in  the  hanaper. 

14gl^  Membranes  8-6. 

June  4.  Inspeximus  and  confirmation  to  the  abbot  and  convent  of  St.  Mary  Graces 

Wefltminster.   by  the  Tower  of  London  of  the  following  :  — 

1.  [Letters  patent]  dated  4  Novemb^,  1  [Henry  lY.,]  inspecting. i and 

confirming  the  following : — 

(1.)  Letters    patent  dated  7   July,  21  Richard  IL    being    an 

exemplification  of  letters  patent  dated  5  October,  50  Edward 

III. 
(2.)  Letters  patent  dated    9  March,  20  Bichard  IL  beiog  an 

exemplification  of  the  enrolment  of  an    indenture   (French) 

dated  the  feast  of  St.  George  the  Mart^,  5  Bichard  11. 
(8.)  Letters  patent  dated  8  March,  20  Bichard  II. 
(4.)  Letters  patent  dated  12  April,  21  Bichard  II.,  inspecting  and 

confirming  an  indenture,  dated  May,  20  Bichard  II.    made 

between  William,  then  abbot,  and  the  convent  of   St.  Mary 

Graces  and  John,  then  prior,  and  the  convent  of  St.  Saviour, 

Bermondeseye  by  London. 
.(5.)  Letters  patent  dated  3  July,  22  Bichard  II.  [Moncuticon.l 
(6.)  Letters  patent  (French)  of  John,  duke  or  Lancaster,  and 

others,  dated  London,  Michaelmas,  10  Bichard  IL 
(7.)  Letters  patent  of  John  de  Bokyngham,  late  bisliop  of  Lincoln, 

dated  Canterbury,  1  March,  22  Bichard  II. 
(8.)  Letters  patent  dated  24  May,  21  Bichard  U. 

2.  Letters  patent  dated  10  November,  AO  Edward  III.  of  England  and 

37  of  France  (m),  being  a  grant  to  them  in  frank  almoin  of  the 
reversions  of  the  manors  of  Westmelne,  Little  Hormade  and  Mesden, 
CO.  Hertford. 

3.  Letters  patent  dated  28  March,  46  Edward  III.  being  a  licence  for  the 

alienation  in  mortmain  to  them  by  the  abbot  and  convent  of  Clerevaux 
in  France  of  a  yearly  rent  of  20/.  which  they  receive  from  the  abbot 
of  Bufford  in  Shirewode  for  the  farm  of  the  church  of  Boderhanii 
CO.  York.  For  5  marks  paid  in  the  hanaper. 

Membranes  6-3. 

July  12.         Intpeximu*  and  confirmation  to  the  dean   and  canons  of   the  king's 
IfestmiMter.   free  chapel  of  St.   Stephen  within  his  palace  of  Westminster  of    the 
following  : — 

1.  A  charter  dated  at  WestminBler,  1  June,  1  Bichard  IL  [Charter  JRoU, 

1  Richard  IL  No,  4,]  inspecting  and  confirming  a  charter  dated 
at  the  Tower  of  London,  1  January,  27  Edward  III.  IMonastkon.} 

2.  A  chuler  dated  at  Westminster,  1  June,  1  Bichard  IL  [Charter  BoU^ 

1  Richard  II,  No,  3,]  inspecting  and  confirming  letters  patent  dated 
as  follows : — 

6  August,  22  Edward  III.  [Moncuticon.'} 

22  August,  22  Edward  III. 

1  March,  26  Edward  IH. 

12  December,  25  Edward  III.  IMonasticon,] 

3  May,  30  Edward  III. 

20  July,  30  Edward  III.  [Monagtican.} 


1  EDWARD  IV.— Part  VL  163 


1461*  Membranes  5-3— coiif. 

24  May,  82  Edward  IIL  [Monasticon.'\ 
20  May,  34  Edwatd  IH. 
20  September,  36  Edward  III.  IMaruuticon.'] 
10  November,  35  Edward  III. 
10  October,  43  Edward  IIL  [Manasiicon.'} 
3.  Letters  patent  dated  6  Febmarj,  21  Bichard  IL  IMonasticon.} 

For  40#.  paid  in  the  hanaper, 

MbMBRANBS  2  AND  1. 

July  16i.         Whereas  Henry  VL  by  letters  patent  dated  26  November,  16  Henry  VI., 

Wefltoiistter,  ^granted  to  the  dean  and  canons  of  the  free  chapel  of  St.  Stephen  within  the 

palace  of  Westminster,  founded  and  endowed  by  Edward  III.  as  a  college 

of  a  dean,  12  canons,   13  vicars,  4  clerks,  6  choristers  and  a  verger,  the 

.  J    V  manor  or  alien  priory  of  Frampton  or  Frompton,  co.  Dorset,  with  all  its 

members,  and  appurtenances,  formerly  granted  to  the  abbey  of  St.  Stephen, 

i  •  Qaen,.  then  extended  at  the  value  of  166/.  13#.  4d.,  in  frank  almoin ;  and  by 

.  testers  patent  dated  16  November,  21  Henry  VI.,  at  the  request  of  John 
^  Siopyndon^.then  keeper  of  the  rolls  of  Chancery,  one  of  the  executors  of 
the  will  of  William  Prestewyk,  late  one  of  the  masters  of  Chancery  and 
clerk  of  Parliament,  and  his  co-executors,  granted  to  them  six  houses  called 
wool  houses  within  his  stepie  of  Weetminster,  in  frank  almoin;  and  by 
letters  patent  dated  23  June,  31  Henry  VI.,  granted  to  William  Walesby, 
then  dean,  and  the  canons  the  office  of  keeper  of  his  dock  within  his 
palace  of  Westminster  and  of  the  custody  of  the  tower  called  '  le  Clokhons ' 
with  wages  of  6^.  daily,  and  also  the  houses  which  William  Sleford,  some- 
time dean,  occupied  within  the  palace,  in  frank  almoin ;  which  said  wages 
were  taken  back  into  the  king's  hands  by  authority  of  Budiitanent  at  West- 

I   .   ;  minster,  9  July,  33  Henry  VI. ;  the  king  now  confirms  the  above  to  them, 

1 : .  and  also  the  grant  to  them  by  letters  patent  of  Henry  IV^  of  35^  14«.  *JdL 
yeKtlj  from  the  farm  of  the  city  of  York,  that  they  may  pray  for  the  good 
estltte  of  the  king  and  Cicely  his  mother  and  for  their  souls  after  death 
and  the  soul  of  Ms  father  Bichard,  late  duke  of  York,  and  keep  the  obito 
of  the  king  and  his  father,  and  grante  that  they  shall  be  quit  of  tenths  granted 
by  the  clergy  of  the  provinces  of  Canterbury  or  York.  By  K. 


ill 


Mmmbbanb  18J.  •  • ' 

Oct.  22.         Commission  to  the  mayor  of  Bristol  to  arrest  William  Long  and  bring 
Wcttmintter.  him  before  the  king  in  Chancery. 


L  2 


164 


1  EDWARD  IV.— Paet  VII. 


MMMBRANMa  35-82. 

1461. 

Not.  4.  Inspeximus  of  letters  patent  dated  14  October,  1  Henry  lY.  reciting  the 

Wwtnuiiftir.  following :-» 

1.  Letters  patent  dated  28  February,  51  Edward  IIL 

2.  A  cbarter  dated  at  Westminster,  16  Febmar j,  18  Bichard  IL  [Ckart^r 

Bollf  18  Richard  IL  No.  4],  to  John,  duke  of  Lancaster. 

3.  A  cbarter  dated  at  Westminster,  29  June,  20  Bichard  II.  [Charier 

Eollf  20  Richard  IL  No.  7,]  inspecting  and  confirming  with  additions 
the  following :— > 

(1.)  A  charter  dated  at  Westminster,  12  Maj,  36  Edward  III. 

[Charter  Roily  36  Edward  IIL  No,  9.] 
(2!)  Letters  patent  dated  14  September,  1  Bichard  11.,  inspecting 
and  confirmiDg  a  charter  dated  at  Westminster,  14  J1U7,  38 
Edwaid  in.  [Charter  Roll,  88  Edward  IIL  No.  2.] 
(8.)  Letters  patent  dated  15  September,  1  Bichard  II.  inspecting 
and  confirming  the  following : — 

a,  A  charter  dated  at  Westminster,  25  June,  46  Edward  III. 

[FfBderaJ] 

b.  A  charter  dated  at  Shene,  4  June,  51  Edward  IIL 

And  declaration  that  all  the  castles,  manors,  lordships,' towns,  knights'  fees^ 
advowsons  and  other  possessions  specified  in  the  above  shall  form  the  duchy 
of  Lancaster,  separate  from  the  other  hereditaments  of  the  crown,  firom 
4  March  last,  and  that  the  county  of  Lancaster  shall  be  a  county  palatine 
and  the  king  and  his  heirs  shall  hold  it  as  parcel  of  the  duchy  with  a 
separate  seal,  chancellor,  justices  and  officers,  and  another  seal  called  the 
seal  of  the  duchy  of  Lancaster,  a  chancellor  for  the  custody  thereof,  and 
officers  and  councillors  for  the  duchy,  with  liberties  and  privileges  as  in 
the  time  of  Henry  Y. 

MSMBRANE  82 — cont. 

Oet.  22.         Mandate  to  all  persons  to  permit  John  Gray,  son  of  Patrick  Oray,  a 

Wettanintter.  native  of  Bokysburgh  in  Scotland,  dwelling  at  London,  who  has  taken  the 

oath  of  fealty,  to  inhabit  the  realm  peaceably  and  enjoy  his  goods.     By  p.8. 

Membrane  31. 

July  26.  Inspeximus  and  confirmation  to  the  warden  and  scholars  of  the  college 
Westminster,  founded  by  William  of  Wykeham,  late  bishop  of  Winchester,  in  the  soke 
of  Winchester,  commonly  called  *  Saynt  Mary  Collegge  of  Wynchestre  by 
Winchester,'  of  a  charter  dated  at  Westminster,  28  ^ptember,  19  Bichard 
II.  [Chartm-  Roll,  18  and  19  Richard  IL  No,  8,]  and  grant  to  them  in 
frank  almoin  of  the  idien  priory  of  Andever,  in  the  diocese  of  Winchester, 
and  divers  liberties.     [Monasticon,]  By  p.s.  [301.] 

Membranes  30  and  29. 

Dec.  17.'        Inspeximus  and  confirmation  to  the  men  and  burgesses  of  the  town  of 
Weitminfter.  Beverley  of  the  following : — 

1.  Letters  patent  dated    30  January,  2  Bichard  II.    inspecting  and 
confirming  the  following  :-— 
(I.)  A  charter  dated  at  Westminster,  14  February,  51  Edward  III. 
inspecting  and  confirming  a  charter  dated  at  York,  14  December, 


1  EDWARD  IV.— Part  VIL  166 


1461.  Membranes  80  and  29 — cont. 

6  Edward  III.  [Charter  BolL  6  Edward  III.  No.  9,] 
inspecting  and  confirming  a  charter  dated  at  Knaresburgh, 
4  March,  16  Edward  IL  inspecting  and  confirming  the 
following : — 

a.  A  charter  dated  at  Porchealer,  28  April,  1  John.   {^Charter 

Moll,  I  John,  Fart  2,  No.  36.] 

b,  A  charter  dated  at  Carlisle,   11  April,  35  Edward  I« 

[Charter  Roily    35    Edward  L    No.  13,]    inspecting 
and  confirming  the  following : — 

(a.)  A  charter  dated  at  Westminster,  13  Febroarj, 

21  Henry  III. 
(6.)  A  charter  dated  at   Westminster,  2  June^  66 
Henry  HI. 
(2.)  Letters  patent  dated  14  Febmary,  51  Edward  III. 

2.  Letters  patent  dated  18  February,  2  Henry  Y.,  being  a  grant  that 
none  of  the  governors,  burgesses  and  commonalty  of  the  town  shall 
be  compelled  to  be  collector  of  tenths,  fifteenths,  or  other  subsidies 
without  the  liberty  and  precinct  of  the  town. 

For  1  mark  paid  in  the  hanaper. 


Mbmbbanb  28-17. 

Oct.  14*         Inspeximus  and  confirmation  to  the  abbot,  prior  and  convent  of  St. 
WestmiDfter.  PetePs,  Westminster,  of  the  following : — 

1 .  A  charter  dated  at  Westminster,  29  N'ovember,  3  Bichard  U.  [Charter 

Roily  3  Richard  II.  No  18,]  inspecting  and  confirming  to  Nicholas, 
then  abbot,  and  the  convent  a  charter  dated  at  York,  26  May,  9 
Edward  III.  [Charter  Roll,  9  Edward  III.  No.  51,]  inspecting 
and  confirming  to  Thomas,  then  abbot,  and  the  convent  the  fol- 
lowing : — 

(1.)  A  charter  of  Edward  the  Confessor  dated  at  Westminster,  v. 
Kal.  Jan.  1066.     [Monasticon,  No,  4.] 

J2.)  A  charter  of  William  I.,  dated  1067. 

[d.)  A  charter  dated  at  Westminster,  10  November,  50  Henry  III. 

2.  A  charter  dated  at  Westminster,  29  November,  3  Richard  II.  [Charter 
Roily  3  Richard  ILNo.  15,]  inspecting  and  confirming  a  charter 
dated  at  York,  28  May,  9  Edward  III.  [Charter  Roily  9  Edward 
III.  No,  52,]  inspecting  and  confirming  the  following : — 

(1.)  A  charter  dated  at  Woodstock,  15  August,  32  Henry  IIL 
(charter  Roll,  32  Henry  Illy  m.  2.] 

(2.)  A  charter  dated  at  Westminster,  24  November,  9  Edward  I. 
[Charter  Roily  9  Edward  /.,  No.  97,]  inspecting  and  confirm- 
ing the  following : — 

a.  A  charter  dated  at  Westminster,  16  July,  19  Henry  III. 
[Mifnasticon,'] 

b.  A  charter  dated  at  Westminster,  22  May,  25  Henry  III. 

c.  A  charter  dated  at  Bordeaux,  18  tJune,  27  Henry  III. 
[  Charter  Roily  27  Henry  III  m,  9.] 

d.  A  charter  dated  at  Westminster,  16  October,  32  Henry 
III. 

6.  A  charter  dated  at  Evesham,  5  September,  34  Henry 

III. 
/.  A  charter  dated  at  Windsor,  25  September,  36  Henry 

III.  [ChaHer  Roll  36  Henry  III.  m.  4.] 
g.  Letters  patent  dated  4  February,  39  Henry  III. 
h.  Letters  patent  dated  30  January,  50  Henry  III. 


fi 


166  CALENDAR  OF  PATENT  ROLLS. 


1461*  Membranes  28-17— con/. 

(3.)  A  charter  dated  at  Westminster,  26  November,  9  Edward  I., 
inspecting  and  confirming  a  charter  dated  at  Woodstock,  1  July, 
19  Henry  III.  [Charter  Roll,  19  Henry  III,  m.  6.] 

(4.)  A  charter  dated  at  Westminster,  29  November,  9  Edward  I. 
Charter  Roll,  9  Edward  /.,  No,  98,]  inspecting  and  con- 
firming a  charter  dated  at  Westminster,  18  March,  39  Henry 

in. 

(5.)  A  charter  dated  at  Berwick-on-Tweed,  30  October,  20  Edward 

A. 
(t>.)  A  charter  dated  at  Westminster,  22  October,  27  Edward  I. 

3.  Letters  patent  dated  29  November,  3  Richard  II.,  inspecting  and  con- 
firming the  following : — 

(1.)  A  charter  dated  at  York,  26  Maj,  9  Edward  III.  [Charter 
Roily  9  Edward  IIL^  No.  50,]  inspecting  and  confirming 
the  following : — 

a.  A  charter  dated  at  Westminster,  20  June,  23  Henrj  lU. 

[Charter  Roily  23  Henry  III.,  m.  2.] 

b.  A  charter  dated  at  Westminster,  20  April,  26  Henrj  IH. 

c.  A  charter  dated  at  Culford,   11   Maj,  26  Edward  I. 

[Charter  Roll,  26  Edward  I.  No.  7.] 

d.  A  charter  dated  at  Westminster,  10  January,  20  Edward 

I.  [Charter  Roll,  20  Edward  I.  No.  63.] 

e.  A  charter  dated  at  Berwick  on  Tweed,  25  October,  20 

Edward  I.  [Ibid.,  No.  4.] 
/.  Lettera    patent    dated    18   February,     14    Edward    I. 

[Monasticon,'} 
g.  Letters  patent  dated  27  October,  27  Edward  I. 
h.  Letters  patent  dated  1 1  December,  46  Henry  HI. 
(2.)  Letters  patent  dated  80  March,  39  Henry  IH. 

(3.)  A  charter  of  Stephen  in  these  words ;  Stephanvts  dei  gratia 
rex  Anglorum  archiepiscopis  episcopis  abbatibus  justidarOs 
comitibus  vicecomitibus  baronibus  ministris  et  omnibus fidelibus 
8tus  Francis  et  Anglis  totius  Anglic  salutem.  Sciatis  m^ 
imperpetuum  concessisse  et  dedisse  ecclesie  sancti  Petri  West' 
monasteriensi  et  fnonachis  ibidem  deo  servientibus  quod 
manerium  suum  de  Patriceseie  cum  pertinentiis  eius  sit 
quietum  de  omnibus  geldis  et  danegeldis  et  murdris  et  assisiset 
auxiliis  justiciariorum,  vicecomitum  et  ab  omni  exercituum 
expeditione  et  castellorum  operatione  et  pontium  refeetione  et 
ex  omnibus  aliis  exactionibus  et  consuetudinibus  et  servieiis 
michi  et  ministris  meis  pertinentibus  per  quietandam  xxviii 
hidarum  et  de  xliiii  hidis  que  inde  requirebantur  ad 
geldandum  clamo  quietam  ecclesiam  predictam  sancti  Petri  et 
monachos  et  fnanerium  prescriptum  imperpetuum.  Et  similiter 
imperpetuum  clamo  eidem  ecclesie  beati  Petri  et  monachis 
ibidem  deo  servientibus  vi  hidas  et  dimidiam  hidam  in  manerio 
Westmonasterii  in  quo  ecclesia  predicta  sita  est  quietas  ab 
omnibus  exactionibus  suprascriptis  et  consuetudinibus  michi  et 
ministris  meis  pertinentibus  quum  curia  et  domus  regie  in 
fundo  illo  consistunt  et  infirmaria  sancti  Egidii  fundata  est,  et 
in  manerio  de  Hanewella  unam  virgatam  terre  ad  ecclesiam 
eiusdam  manerii  pertinentem  quietam  ab  omnibus  secularibus 
excLctionibus  et  servieiis,  Quare  volo  etfirmiter  predpio  quod 
predicta  ecclesia  et  monachi  et  manerium  de  Patriceseia  cum 
pertinentiis  suis  sit  quietum  imperpetuum  per  suprascriptam 
quietandam  videlicet  xxviii  hidarum  et  quod  ecclesia  pre* 
dicta  et  monachi  in  manerio  fVestmonasterii  quietandam  sex 


1  EDWARD  IV.— Pabt  VIT.  167 


1461.  Membranes  28-17 — cotU, 

Jddarum  et  dimidie  hide  et  in  manerio  de  Hanewella  quietatt' 
dam  uttius  virgate  terre  finabiliter  possideant  in  perpetuam 
elemosinam  pro  salute  anime  mee  et  Matildis  regine  uxoris 
mee  et  liberorum  meorum  et  pro  anima  regis  Henrid  avunculi 
met  et  pro  animabus  cdiorum  predecessorum  meorum  regum 
Anglie  omniumque  fidelium,  Insuper  per  tremendum  dei 
judicium  contestor  omnes  successores  meos  reges  necnon  et  opti- 
mates  ne  banc  concessionis  mee  et  donationis  libertatem  ullo 
tempore  in  aliquo  infringere  presumant,  immo  augeant  et 
custodiant  et  manuteneant  sicut  predicte  ecdesie  et  monaehis 
iilam  concedo  et  presenti  carta  conjirmo  et  sicut  voluerint  in 
die  judicii  animas  suas  salvari.  Testibus  Theohaido  archi- 
ejnscopo  Cantuariensi  Anglic  primate  et  apostolice  sedis  legato , 
Roberto  abbate  Sancti  Albania  Daniele  abbate  de  Holmo^ 
Ricardo  de  Lucy^  Baldrico  de  Sigillo^  Roberto  de  Valderiy 
Osbemo  Martelly  Rogero  Burnard^  Widone  filio  Testir^ 
Gervasio  (Bern')  de  Comhell,  Johanne  Jilio  Radulphiy  apud 
Sanctum  Albanum, 

4.  Letters  patent  dated  10  Julj^  4  Bichard  II.  inspecting  and  confirming 

the  following : — 

(1.)  Letters  patent  dated  12  June,  25  Edward  III.  being  an 
exemplification  of  letters  patent  dated  23  April,  1 1  Edward 
III. 
(2.)  A  charter  dated  at  Westminster,  1  March,  36  Edward  III. 
[Charter  Roll,  36  Edward  IIL  No.  19.] 

5.  Letters  patent  dated  8  March,  20  Richard  II. 

6.  Letters  patent  dated  8  November,  21  Richard  11. 

7.  Letters  patent  dated  6  July,  17  Richard  11. 

8.  A  charter  dated  at  Westminster,  18  December,  17  Richard  II.  [Charter 

Roll,  15-17  Richard  11.  No.  8.] 

9.  A  charter  dated  at  Westminster,  29  November,  3  Richard^II.  [Charter 

Roll,  3  Richard  II,  No.  21,]  inspecting  and  confirming  a  charter 
dated  at  Westminster,  1  December,  34  Edward  UI.  [Charter  Roll^ 
34-35  Edward  III  No.  15,]  inspecting  and  confirming  a  charter 
dated  at  Westminster,  16  July,  32  Henry  III.  [Charter  Roll,  32 
Henry  III.  m.  3.] 

10.  A  charter  dated  at  Westminster,  17  October,  21  Richard  II.  being  a 
grant  to  them  of  return  of  writs  and  certain  other  liberties  within 
the  county  of  Worcester. 

11.  A  charter  dated  at  Windsor,  23  April,  22  Richard  U.  [Charter  Roll, 
21-23  Richard  II  No.  7.] 

12.  Another  charter  of  the  same  date  [Ibid,  No.  9]. 

13.  Letters  patent  dated  28  April,  22  Richard  11. 

14.  A  charter  dated  at  Westminster,  1  May,  22  Richard  II.  [  Ibid, 
No,  6.]  For  10/.  paid  in  the  hanaper. 

Membranes  16-14. 

Nov.  20.        Inspeximus  and  confirmation  to  the  prioress  and  convent  of  SS.  Mary 
Westmiiuter.  and  Margaret,  Dertford,  of  the  following  : — 

1.  Letters  patent  dated  15  July,  4  Richard  II.,  inspecting  and  confirming 
letters  patent  of  the  following  dates : 

20  July,  46  Edward  III.     [Monasticon.'] 
16  July,  31  Edward  III.     [Monasticon.j 
18  April,  47  Edward  in. 
1  September,  31  Edward  III. 

27  January,  40  Edward  III. 

28  June,  49  Edward  III. 


168  CALENDAR  OP  PATENT  ROLLS. 


1461.  Membranes  16-14— con/. 

2.  Letters  patent  dated  3  September,  8  Richard  XL     [^MoruuHam,^ 

3.  Letters  patent  dated  17  July,  16  Richard  II. 

4.  Letters  patent  dated  29  June,  23  Edward  III. 

5.  Letters  patent  dated  5  February,  31  Edward  III. 

6.  Letters  patent  dated  26  December,  32  Eldward  III. 

7.  Letters  patent  dated  11  July,  47  Edward  III. 

8.  A  charter  dated  at  Westminster,  12  Augu^  46  Edward  III.  [Charter 
Roily  46  Edward  III,  No,  2.]  For  5  marks  paid  in  the  hanaper. 

1462.  Membrane  13. 

Feb.  22.  Inspeximus  and  confirmation  to  John,  the  prior,  and  the  convent  of  the 
Wefltmineter.  Charterhouse  by  London  of  (I)  letters  patent  dated  8  April,  51  Edward 
III.,  granting  to  them  a  tun  of  wine  yearly  in  the  port  of  London,  and  (2) 
.  a  charter  dated  at  Westminster,  20  March,  22  Richard  11.  [  Charter  JRoll, 
21-23  Richard  IL  No.  2] ;  licence  for  the  acquisition  in  mortmain  by 
them,  after  inquisition,  of  lands,  tenements  and  rents  to  the  value  of  40/. 
yearly ;  grant  to  them  bf  18  marks  yearly  from  the  issues  of  the  counties  of 
Essex  and  Hertford  in  lieu  of  grants  of  wine  by  the  said  letters  patent  and 
letters  patent  dated  15  February,  37  Henry  YL;  and  grant  to  them  in 
frank  almoin  of  the  alien  priory  of  Okebume  and  its  appurtenances,  pro- 
vided that  they  account  at  the  Exchequer  for  any  surplus  in  value  above 
501  yearly.  By  K.,  and  for  208,  paid  in  the  hanaper. 

Vacated  by  surrender  and  cancelled,  so  far  as  the  said  priory  is  concerned^ 
because  the  hing  granted  it  to  them  by  letters  patent  dated  23  February. 

1461.  Membranes  12-9. 

Dec.  20.  Inspeximus  and  confirmation  to  the  mayor,  bailiffs  and  commonalty  of 

Wertmingter.  the  town  of  Coventry  of  the  following  : — 

1.  A  charter  dated  at  Westminster,  24  March,  1  Richard  II.  [Charter Roll, 
,  1  Richard  II.  No,   14,]  inspecting  and  confirming  with  additions 

the  following : — 

(1 .)  A  charter  da^ed  at  York,  2  March,  8  Edward  III. 
(2.)  A  charter  dated  at  Westminster,  10  May,    15  Edward  IH. 
[Charter  Roll,  15     Edward  III,    No.   15,]  inspecting  and 
confirming  the  following  : — 

a.  A  charter  dated  at  Faxfieet,  10  July,  17  Edward  IL, 
inspecting  and  confirming  a  charter  dated  at  Westminster, 
30  January,  52  Henry  III.  [Charter  Roll,  52  Henry 
111.,  m.  11,]  inspecting  and  confirming  a  charter  of 
Henry  [II.]  dated  at  Marlborough. 

b.  A  charter  dated  at  York,  2  March,  8  Edward  III. 

(3.)  A  charter  dated  at  the  Tower  of  London,  11  April,  20  Edward 
III.  [Charter  Roll,  20  Edward  II L  No.  16,]  inspecting  and 
confirming  letters  patent  of  Edward,  prince  of  Wales,  dated  at 
Berkeweye,  3  April,  20  Edward  III.,  inspecting  and  confirming 
letters  patent  of  queen  Isabella  dated  at  the  castle  of  Rysyng, 

1  February,  19  Edward  III. 

(4.)  Letters  patent  of  the  said  prince  dated  at  Berkhamsted  Castle, 

2  February,  1374,  49  Edward  III. 

(5.)  Letters  patent  (French")  of  the  said  prince  dated  at  Berkham- 
sted Castle,  8  February,  1374,  49  Edward  III. 

2.  A  charter  dated  at  Westminster,  6  April,  22  Richard  II.  [Charter 

Roll,  21-23  Richard  II. ,  No.  4.] 

3.  Letters  patent  dated  4  May,  8  Richard  II. 

4.  Letters  patent  dated  7  July,  11  Richard  II. 

5.  Letters  patent  dated  7  July,  11  Richard  II. 

For  AOs.  paid  in  the  hanaper. 


1  EDWARD  IV.— Part  VIL  169 


1461.  MSMBRANS  8. 

Dec.  10.  Grant  and  confirmation  to  Bicbard  Wydewyll,  lord  Ryvers,  and  Jaquetta, 

WestmixiBter.  duchess  of  Bedford,  his  wife,  for  the  life  of  the  latter  of  the  dower  assigned 
to  her  on  the  death  of  John,  late  duke  of  Bedford,  her  husband,  to  wit,  the 
advowsons  of  the  church  of  Wilberton  and  the  free  chapel  of  Wykes,  200 
acres  of  turbary  in  the  marsh  of  Holand,  a  third  part  of  a  moiety  in  Holand 
Fennes,  divers  lands  and  possessions  and  a  third  part  of  certain  profits  in 
Boston,  Hytyngton,  Grymelby,  Borewell,  Ludford,  Burton,  Frampton, 
Wykes,  Fulbek,  Ledenham,  Wassyngbourgh,  Donyngton,  Multon,  Su^ete, 
Gosberkirk,  Quadryng,  Byker,  Swyneshed,  Wygtoft,  Stourton,  Algarkirk, 
Fosse  Dyke,  Fowlestou,  Aylesby,  Swalowe,  Halton,  Kyllyngholme, 
Cadney,  Kernyngton,  Kelsey,  Sprydlyngton,  Swynehope,  Walton,  Cadeby, 
Granesby,  Wath,  Houton,  Newton,  Toft,  Benyngton,  Hyptoft,  Yarbourgh, 
Gametborp,  Mandeby,  Alvingham,  Salt  Fleteby,  Keyermounde,  Leggesby, 
Wyllyngham,  the  sokes  of  Gayton  and  Mondeby,  amd  the  sokes  or  wapentakes 
of  Skyrkebek  and  Kirketon,  co.  Lincoln,  the  advowsons  of  a  moiety  of  the 
churdi  in  Danby  and  the  hospital  of  St.  Nicholas  and  divers  lands  and 
possessions  with  a  third  part  of  certain  profits  in  Richemond,  Gillyng, 
Gyllyngest,  Gyllyngwest,  Aldebourgh,  Thornton,  Kneton,  Middulton, 
Kateryke,  Multon,  Forset,  Arkirgarth  Dale,  Nova  Foresta,  Esthope, 
Bowes,  Danby,  Bollerun,  Dysseford,  Smeton,  Lemyng,  Langthawayte, 
Halgatc,  Whawe,  and  Fagyrgyll,  Wbiteclyff,  Newton  Morell,  Stapilton, 
Eriome,  Kirkelyngton,  North  Couton  and  Southcouton,  Fennecotes, 
Fletham,  Ravenswath,  Sutton,  Colborn,  Eilwardby,  Brianaskam  by  York, 
Epulby,  Sadberugh  and  Hekelyng,  co.  York,  belonging  to  the  castle, 
earldom,  honour  or  lordship  of  Richemond,  the  advowson  of  the 
church  in  Gresmere  and  divers  lands  and  possessions  with  a  third 
part  of  certain  profits  in  Helsyngton,  Forsthwayte,  Gresmere, 
Logh  Rygge,  Largden,  Hamelset  Troutebek,  Appulthwayte  Troutebek, 
Milbek,  Cirossetwhaite,  Hoton,  Casturton,  Strikelond  EetuU,  Kirkeby 
Kendale,  Littehous,  Farlton,  Berburn,  Kirslak,  Hotonrofe,  Strike- 
lande,  Moyserth,  Bolteston,  Berdesaland,  Annothetb,  Thornes,  Bredeholm, 
Calerigge,  Whittewell,  Hiltonland,  Warcopland,  Strikelaud  Ketill,  Grosse- 
whayte,  Sleddale,  Wetherslake,  Aldesteynton,  Steynton,  Likebarugh, 
Forsterfeld,  Wynster,  Ryggmayden,  Banuandesdale,  Eneton,  Teuleshed, 
Middulton  and  elsewhere  in  the  county  of  Westmoreland,  a  third  part  of 
the  castle  of  St.  Briavel  and  the  bouses  within  its  site  and  the  prison  of  the 
great  tower  there  called  '  Ledungen,'  the  park  or  pasture  of  St.  Briavel 
with  all  lands  formerly  of  John  Pai*pyn  with  all  profit  for  coals  and  pasture 
called  ^  Walmore,'  all  pannage  of  pigs  and  agistment,  with  the  third  part  of 
certain  profits  and  divers  lands  in  Staunton,  Brikenore,  Little  Dene, 
Neweland,  Whomson,  Alvyngton,  Aywarton,  Lyeney,  Newarme,  Peryngton, 
Ettelowe,  Haggelowe,  Blydeslowe,  Auerey,  Blethedon,  Longhope  and  else- 
where in  the  county  of  Gloucester,  a  third  part  of  the  manor  of  Swale- 
wefeld,  a  third  part  of  the  manor  of  Salden,  co.  Buckingham,  20/.  yearly 
from  the  issues  of  the  counties  of  Bedford  and  Buckingham,  divers  lands 
and  possessions  in  Bassyngbourne,  Molland,  Chirchestell,  Melreth,  Wym- 
pole,  Lytlyngton,  Oldburyland,  Newberyland,  Pyperton,  Reade,  the  third 
part  of  a  water-mill  and  certain  profits,  three  bailiwicks  within  the  baili- 
wick of  Badburgham  called  Papworth,  Ernjmgfeld  and  Fynchyngfeld 
respectively,  with  all  other  profits  belonging  to  the  castle,  earldom,  honour 
or  lordship  of  Richmond  in  the  county  of  Cambridge,  the  manor  of  Dange- 
halle,  a  dairy  {daiariam)  alias  *  a  wyke  '  called  *  Dangebrygge,'  with  lands 
called  *  Estlondes '  and  divers  rents  of  assize  in  Dansey,  and  30  acres  of  land 
called  '  Bnnges  '  with  two  marshes  in  Bradwell,  co.  Essex,  lands  in  the 
manor  of  Yonsfeld,  fields  called  *  Gourey,'  *  Esthey,'  *Strangrondes'  and 
« Lityll  Mylfeld,'  two  pieces  of  land  called  *  Grakketales,'  a  croft  called 
*  HorscrofV  a  croft  called  '  Lityll  Park,'  a  field  called  <  Nattonfild,'  two 
pieces  of  land  called  *  Rowemedes,*  a  third  part  of  the  site  of  the  said 


170  CALENDAR  OP  PATENT  BOLLS. 


J4(J1^  Membrane  8— con/. 

manor  and  8^.  of  rent  in  the  said  manor,  co.  Kent,  a  fishery  in  le  Mid- 
weje,  a  third  part  of  18/.  of  rent  from  the  manor  of  Pourestoke,  co. 
Dorset,  a  crane  with  a  messuage  and  wharf  adjacent  in  the  parish  of  St. 
Martin  in  the  Yintry,  London,  a  yearly  rent  of  333  marks  4s.  6|cf.  and  a 
third  part  of  \d.  at  the  receipt  of  the  Exchequer  within  the  town  of  West- 
minster, CO.  Middlesex,  a  yearly  sum  of  444/.  8«.  \0\(L  at  the  receipt  of  the 
duchy  of  Cornwall,  and  a  third  part  of  the  manor  of  Swafham,  co.  Norfolk, 
and  all  lands  and  possessions  belonging  to  it  or  to  the  said  castle,  earldom, 
honour  or  lordship  of  Bicbemond  in  the  county  of  Norfolk  ;  and  also  of  a 
yearly  rent  of  61/.  \*7d.  granted  to  them  by  letters  patent  dated  18  June, 
18  Henry  VI.  viz.  20/.  from  the  lands  of  Eustace  Burneby  in  Watford  in 
the  county  of  Northampton,  25/.  from  the  manor  of  Gretton  in  that  county, 
and  16/.  VJd,  from  the  issues  of  all  assarts,  wastes  and  purprestures 
between  the  bridges  of  Staunford  and  Oxford,  and  a  yearly  rent  granted  to 
them  by  letters  patent  dated  13  November,  19  Henry  VI.,  viz.  43/.  18*.  7d. 
from  the  said  assarts,  wastes  and  purprestures,  20/.  from  the  issues  of  the 
manor  and  town  of  Briggestoke,  co.  Northampton,  and  S6s.  id,  from  the 
issues  of  the  manor  of  Corby,  co.  Northampton,  in  recompense  of  a  third 
part  of  two  parts  of  the  manors  of  Canford,  co.  Dorset,  and  Wynturburn 
Erles,  the  borough  or  town  of  Wilton,  co.  Wilts,  and  the  manor  of  Charleton 
Camvile,  co.  Somerset,  which  the  present  king  lately  took  into  his  hands ; 
and  grant  to  the  said  Bichard  of  divers  messuages  and  lands  within  the 
town  of  Calais,  in  the  parish  of  St.  Mary  between  the  lane  of  John 
Stret  atte  lane  towards  the  east  and  le  Frerestret  towards  the  west  and 
the  tenements  of  John  Muiso  and  John  Fryket  towards  the  north  and 
a  little  lane  on  the  side  of  the  prince's  lodgmg  towards  the  south,  which 
were  granted  to  Bichard  his  father  and  Joan,  wife  of  the  latter,  both 
deceased,  by  letters  patent  dated  22  April,  9  Henry  VI.,  for  a  term  of  90 
years  from  that  date,  rendering  yearly  a  lance  with  a  head  at  the  Exchequer 
of  Calais,  to  hold  until  the  end  of  the  said  90  years.  By  p.s.  [648.] 

•lAao  Membrane  7. 

Feb.  12.  Grant  to  the  mayor,  burgesses  and  commonalty  of  Bristol  from  Michaelmas 
Westminster,  last,  in  lieu  of  a  similar  grant  made  to  them  by  letters  patent  dated  15  March, 
24  Henry  VI.,  surrendered,  of  the  town  of  Bristol  with  its  suburbs,  gates, 
ditches  and  walls,  and  all  lands,  rents  and  services  and  '  les  flesshehameles  * 
belonging  to  the  king  within  the  town  and  its  suburbs,  liberty  and  precinct, 
except  the  castle  and  its  moat,  with  houses,  shops,  cottages,  tcfts,  gardens, 
mills,  Btanks,  mill  streams,  rents,  tolls,  fairs  and  markets,  all  fines,  issues, 
ramsoms,  amercements,  jurisdictions  and  customs,  reversions,  chattels  of 
felons,  fiigitives  and  outlaws,  fisheries,  courts,  views  of  frank  pledge,  hun- 
dreds, wreck  of  sea  and  royal  wreck,  waifs,  strays,  royal  fishes  and  other 
appurtenences,  escheats,  forfeitures  and  deodands,  and  iJl  other  profits  from 
forests,  parks,  woods,  warrens,  stanks,  stews,  marshes,  moors  and  mines,  from 
Michaelmas  last  for  ever,  rendering  yearly  102/.  ibs.  6d,  at  the  Exchequer, 
14/.  lOs.  to  the  abbot  of  Tewkesbury  for  the  tithes  of  the  town,  60«.  to  the 
prior  of  St.  James's,  Bristol,  for  the  yearly  rent  of  the  mill  of  the  town,  and 
39/.  14«.  6</.  to  the  constable  of  the  castle  and  his  ministers,  viz.  the  porter 
and  watchman  of  the  castle  and  the  forester  of  Kyngeswode.  By  K. 

•tAn-t  Membrane  6. 

May  14.  Inspeximus  and  confirmation  to  the  burgesses  of  Melecumbe  of  a  charter 
Westminster,  dated  at  Salisbury,  3  November,  2  Edward  III.  [^Charter  Roll,  2  Edward 
IILj  No,  11,]  inspecting  and  confirming  a  charter  dated  at  Windsor,  22 
January,  11  Edward  II.,  inspecting  and  confirming  with  additions  a  charter 
dated>  at  Westminster,  27  May,  8  Edward  I.  [  Charter  Boll,  8  Edward  /., 
No,  52.]  For  ^  mark  paid  in  the  hanaper. 


1  EDWARD  IV.— Pabt  VII.  171 


-[AQo  Membranes  6-1. 

Feb.  10.         Inspeximus  and  confirmation  to  the  mayor,  cltisens  and  commonalty  of 
Westminster,   the  city  of  Norwich  of  the  following : — 

1.  A  charter  of  Henry  II.  as  follows : — 

H,  rex  Anglic  et  dux  Normannie  et  Aquitanie  et  comes  Andegavie 
omnibus  archiepiscopis  episcopis  abbatilms  comitibus  baronibus 
justiciariis  rncecomitibus  ministris  et  omnibus  Jidelibus  suis 
Francis  et  Anglis  salutem.  Sciatis  me  concessisse  et  presenti 
carta  confirm^sse  burgensibus  meis  de  Norwico  omnes  eon' 
suetudines  et  libertates  et  quietancias  quas  habebant  tempore 
Henrici  regis  avi  mei  ita  plena  et  honorifice  et  quiete  sicut  ipsi 
eas  plenius  et  honorabilius  et  quietius  hahueruwt  tempore  regis 
Henrici  avi  mei.  Quare  volo  et  Jirmiier  precipio  quod  omnes 
illas  habeant  plene  et  honorifice  sicut  eas  tunc  haouerunt  tarn 
consuetudines  suas  quam  etia?n  responsa  sua  tempore  meo  et 
temporibus  heredum  meorum,  Et  si  aliquis  post  mortem  regis 
Henrici  avi  met  in  tempore  regis  Stephani  a  consuetudinibus 
eorum  et  scottis  seforas  misit  precipio  quod  ad  eorum  socie^^ 
totem  et  constietudinem  revertatur  et  scottum  ipsorum  sequatur 
quia  nullum  ex  eis  inde  quietum  clamo.  T.  Willelmo  fratre 
Regis,  Henrico  de  Essex,  constctbulario,  Ricardo  de  Hum[ez], 
constabulario,  Manasserio  Biset,  dapifero,  Warino  filio 
Geraldi,  camerario,  apud  FFestmonasterium.' 

2.  A  charter  dated'at.Westminstery  15  February,  3  Bichardll.  [Charter 

Roll,  3  Richard  IL,  No,  5,]  inspecting  and  confirming  with 
additions  a  charter  dated  at  Westminster,  26  February,  1  Biclmrd  II. 
[Charter  Roll,  I  Richard  TL,  No.  21,]  inspecting  and  confirming 
the  following : — 

(1.)  A  charter  dated  at  Portsmouth,  5  May,  5  Richard  I. 

(2.)  A  charter  dated  at  le  Mans,  22  September,  1  John.     [Rotuli 

Cartarum,  p,  20.] 
(3.)  A  charter  dated  at  Woodstock,   3  June,  39  Henry  III. 

[Charter  Roll,  39  Henry  IIL,  m,  4.] 
(4.)  Letters  patent  dated  2  February,  19  Edward  II. 
(6.)  A  charter  dated  at  Westminster,  4  October,  11  Edward  III., 
inspecting  and  confirming  a  charter   dated  at  Walsyngham, 
3  February,  19  Edward  II.,  inspecting  and  confirming  the 
following : — 

a.  A  charter  dated  at  Westminster,  27  May,  13  Edward  I. 
[Charter  Roll,  13  Edward  /.,  No.  101,]  inspecting 
and  confirming  the  following : — 

(a.)   A  charter  dated  at  Westminster,  13  February,  13 
Henry  III.  [Charter  Roll,  13  Henry  IIL,  m.  10.] 
{b.)  A  charter  dated  at  Norwich,  25  March,  40  HenryllL 

b,  A  charter  dated  at  Canterbury,  8  July,  33  Edward  I. 
[Charter  Roll,  33  Edward  L,  No.  22.] 

(6.)  A  charter   dated  at  Hertford,  9  August,  19  Edward  m. 
[Charter  Roll,  19  Edward  IIL,  No.  10.] 

3.  A  charter  dated  at  Westminster,  28  January,  5  Henry  IV.  [Charter 

Roll,  5  Henry  IV,,  No.  6.] 

4.  A  charter  dated  at  Westminster,  17  March,  30  Henry  VI.  [Charter 

Roll,  27-39  Henry  VL,  No.  31.] 

For  10  marks  [paid  in  the  hanaper]. 


172 


2  EDWARD  IV.— Part  I. 


1462. 

May  9. 

Westminster. 


May  7. 
Westminster. 


Maj  13. 

Westminster. 


Maj6. 

Westminster. 


May  9. 

Westminster. 


May  21. 

Westminster. 


June  28. 
Westminster. 


May  31. 

Westminster. 


July  5. 
Westminster. 


Oct.  19. 
Westminster. 

Oct.  20. 
Westminster. 


Membrane  27. 

Pardons  of  outlawry  to  the  following : — 
Robert  Boteler  late  of  Bekle  or  Bokley,  co.  Saaaex,  '  taillour, '  for  not 
appearing  before  John  Prysot  and  his  fellows,  justices  of  the  Bench 
of  the  late  king,  to  answer  Richard  Kyrkeby,  citizen  and  *  grocer'  of 
London,  touching  a  tmspass,  he  having  surrendered  to  the  Flete 
prison,  as  Robert  Danby,  chief  justice,  has  certified.  London. 

David  Penynton  of  Hawghton,  co.  Lancaster,  *  yoman,'  for  not  appearing 
to  answer  Ralph  Buteler,  knight,  lord  of  Sudeley,  and  William 
Wodcok,  prior  of  St.  Mary,  Erdebury,  oo.  Warwick,  touching  a  debt 
of  20/.  London. 

John  Stedman  of  Benyngton  by  Boston,  co.  Lincoln,  ^formour,'  for  not 
appearing  to  answer  George  Langham  touching  a  debt  of  30/. 

Suffolk. 

William  Taylour  late  of  Sloughter,  co.  Gloucester,  'grome,*  alioi 
William  Baker  of  Thermerton,  co.  Gloucester, '  husbondman,'  for  not 
appearing  to  answer  William  Browenyng  touching  a  debt  of  24/.  lOr. 

Dorset. 

John  Horsby  of  Wy veton,  co.  Norfolk,  *  husbondman,'  for  not  spearing 
before  Richard  Neuton  and  his  fellows,  justices  of  the  Bench  of 
the  late  king,  to  answer  John  Birde  touching  a  debt  of  6  marks  6«.  84f. 

Norfolk. 

John  Dorlet  of  Alby  by  Becclys,  co.  Norfolk,  *  laborer,'  for  not  ap- 
pearing before  John  Prysot  and  his  fellows,  when  sued  with  Edmund 
Somer  of  Hevyngham,  co.  Noifolk,  and  WiUiam  Feld,  of  Felthorp^ 
CO.  Norfolk,  '  laborers,'  to  answer  Henry  Inglose,  knight,  touching 
a  trespass.  Norfolk. 


William  Devenysh  of  Weston  by  Baldok,  co.  Hertford, '  husbondman,* 
for  not  appearing  to  answer  Robert  Armeburg,  esquire,  touching  a 
debt  of  6  marks.  Hertford. 

Thomas  Groos  late  of  Sheynton,  co.  Leicester,  *  husbondman,'  for  not 
appearing  to  answer  William  Everard,  touching  a  debt  of  40«. 

Leicester. 

Richard  Touker  of  Totneys,  co.  Devon, '  marchaunt,'  for  not  appearing 
to  answer  Thomas  Hedlam  of  London,  *  draper,'  touching  a  debt  of 
20/.  Middlesex. 

William  Gamelle,  late  of  Crudworth,  clerk,  alias  vicar  of  the  parish 
church  of  Crudworth,  co.  Warwick,  for  not  appearing  to  answer  John 
Brasyer  of  Walshale,  '  belleter,'  and  Thomas  Baly  of  Walshale,  co. 
Stafford,  touching  a  debt  of  20  marks.  Coventry. 

William  Herman  of  Westmerton,  co.  Wilts,  *  husbondman,'  for  not  ap- 
pearing to  answer  Richard  Levermore  and  Thomas  BonvOe,  esquire, 
touching  debts  of  66*.  and  40/.  respectively.  Middlesex. 

John  Mayson  late  of  Spaldyng,  co.  Lincoln,  *  gentilman,'  for  not  appear- 
ing to  ansAver  touching  a  plea  of  Agatha  late  the  wife  of  William 
Grene,  citizen  and  goldsmith  of  London,  John  Jowederell  and 
William  Broun,  citizen  and  goldsmith  of  London,  that  he  render  40». 
to  the  said  executors  {sic). 


2  EDWARD  IV.— Part  I. 


na 


1462. 

Oct.  22. 

.Wastmimter* 

Oet.  24. 

Westminstflr. 


Oct  24. 

Wflttminster. 

Oct.  12. 

Westminster. 


Oct.  27. 

Westminster. 


Oct.  14. 
Westminster. 


Oct.  28. 

Westminster. 

Oct.  29. 

Westminsteiw 


1463. 

Jon.  26. 
Westminster. 


Membrane  27— «oft/. 

Eichaitl  Hajward  late  of  Lyllebam,  co.  Northampton,  clerk,  for  not 
appearing  before  the  justices  of  the  Bench  of  the  present  king  to 
answer  William  Harpur  touching  a  trespass.  Northampton. 

John  Kjrk  late  of  Welbum,  co.  Lincoln,  *  joman/  for  not  appearing 
before  John  Prysot  and  his  fellows,  justices  of  the  Bench  of  the  late 
king,  to  answer  Robert  Bempston,  esquire,  touching  a  debt  of  10/. 

London. 

John  Cook,  parson  of  the  church  of  Brouneswell,  co.  Suffolk,  a/tor 
late  of  Bromcswell,  clerk,  for  not  appearing  to  answer  Walter  Ljhert^ 
bishop  of  Norwich,  touching  a  debt  of  61,  13*.  4d,  Norwich. 

Robert  Tuplyn  alias  Turpjn  alias  Turpljn  alias  Somerootes,  rector 
of  the  parish  church  of  Fartenaj,  co.  Lincoln,  for  not  appearing  to 
answer  William  Walker  touching  a  debt  of  40s,  and  Robert  Crabden 
and  John  Tailour  of  Lincoln,  touching  a  debt  of  6  marks. 

Lincoln  and  citj. 

John  Bowej  of  LodeswjU,  co.  DeTon,  *  bajlj,*  for  not  appearing  before 
Richard  Neuton  and  his  fellows,  justices  of  the  Bench  of  the  late 
king,  to  answer  a  plea  of  John  Blewet  that  he  render  an  account  for 
the  time  when  he  was  his  receiver.  Devon. 

John  Hovell  late  of  Wesjnham,  co.  Norfolk, '  corser,*  for  not  appearing 
before  John  Prysot  and  his  fellows,  justices  of  the  Bench  of  the  late 
king,  to  answer  William  Weryche  of  Stowebardolf,  co.  Norfolk, 
touching  a  debt  of  6L  lOs,  Norfolk. 

William  London  of  Algerkyrk,  co.  Lincoln,  *  laborer,'  son  of  Thomas 
London,  for  not  appearing  before  the  justices  of  the  Bench  of  the  late 
king,  to  answer  John  Rogger,  esquire,  touching  a  debt  of  10/. 

London. 

William  Jose,  burgess  of  Bristol,  *  marchaunt,'  for  not  appearing  before 
John  Prysot  and  his  fellows,  to  answer  John  Bysshop  of  Taunton, 
touching  a  debt  of  34/.  I7s.  lid.  London. 

Edmund  Codenham  of  Bury  St.  Edmunds,  co.  Suffolk,  *  laborer,'  for  not 
appearing  before  Ricluml  Neuton  and  his  feUows,  justices  of  the 
Bench  of  the  late  king,  to  answer  a  plea  of  John  Mors  that  he  render 
chattels  to  the  value  of  10  marks.  Suffolk. 

Gilbert  Haydok  late  of  York,  clerk,  for  not  appearing  before  Robert 
Danby  and  his  fellows,  justices  of  the  Bench  of  the  present  king, 
to  answer  William  Moreton,  clerk,  touching  a  trespass.  City  of  York. 


1462. 

Oct.  22. 

Westminster. 


Oct.  28. 

Westminster. 


Oct.  28. 

Westminster. 

Oct.  28. 

Westmioiter. 


Membrane  26. 

John  Carter  of  Walden,  co.  Essex,  '  husbondman,'  for  not  appearing^ 
before  John  Prysot  and  his  fellows,  justices  of  the  Bench  of  the  late 
king,  to  answer  William  Warles  touching  a  debt  of  6/.  I2s.  6d. 

Norfolk. 

John  Wykys  of  Rokelound,  co.  Norfolk,  *  husbondman,'  for  not  appear- 
ing to  answer  John  Bole  of  Aslakton,  John  Crowe  of  Tybenham  the 
younger  and  Adam  Taylour  of  Tybenham  touching  a  debt  of 
8  marks.  Norfolk. 

Richard  Underbill  of  Kelmestowe,  co.  Salop, '  yoman,'  for  not  appearing 
to  answer  Thomas  Barbour  touching  a  debt  of  40s.  Worcester. 

Thomas  Boughton  late  of  Norton  Davy,  co.  Northampton,  clerk,  for 
not  appearing  to  answer  Thomas  Throkmorton  and  Ralph  Ligoldesby 


174 


CALBNDAB  OP  PATENT  BOLLS. 


1462. 


Oct.  29. 

Westminster. 


Oct.  19.    . 

Westminster. 

Oct.  29. 

Westminster. 


Nov.  6. 
Westminster. 

Nov.  14. 

Westminster. 


May  28. 

Westminster. 


1468. 

Jan.  26. 

Westminster.  ; 

Jan.  24. 

.Westminster. 


Jan.  24. 
WeotmiostBc. 

Jan.  25.' 

Westmmster. 


Jan.  28. 

Westmmster. 


Membrane  26''~co7U, 

teaching  a  debt  of  100  marks,  and  toncliing  a  plea  of  Elizabeth 
late  the  wife  of  James  Swetenham,  esquire,  John  Dyne  and  John 
Greyve,  vicar  of  Blakevesley,  executors  of  the  will  of  the  said  James, 
laid  against  him  by  the  name  of  Thomas  Boughton,  late  parson  of 
the  church  of  Norton  Davy,  that  he  render  to  them  35^  8^.  Id.    , 

London  and  Worcester. 

ThoiDas  Wylet,  late  of  Lanteglis  by  Camelforde,  co.  Cornwall,  *  husbond- 
man,'  executor  of  the  will  of  John  Wylet,  late  parson  of  the  church 
of  Lanteglis  and  executor  of  the  will  of  William  Trobellt  clerk,  for 
not  appearing  with  Robert  Symon  late  of  Lanteglis,  chaplain,  his 
co-executor,  to  answer  a  plea  that  he  render  a  book,  price  10  marks, 
to  John  Howell,  clerk,  executor  of  the  will  of  Thomas  Dawekyn, 
clerk.  Devon. 

William  Garbot  of  Sprouston,  co.  Norfolk,  '  husbondman,'  for  not 
appearing  to  answer  John  Jenney  touching  a  debt  of  40^.      Norfolk. 

John  Milleward  of  Warfurreshopton  by  Clebury,  co.  Salop,  *  miller,'  for 
not  appearing  to  answer  touching  a  plea  of  Thomas  Wybbe,  esquire, 
that  he  render  his  account  for  the  time  when  he  was  his  receiver. 

Worcester. 

Peter  Martyne  lale  of  Tatirsale,  co.  Lincoln,  ^rughmason'  alias 
*  laborer,'  for  not  appearing  before  the  justices  of  the  present  king 
to  answer  Leonard  Toure  touching  a  debt  of  lOOf.  Lincoln. 

John  Kayll  of  Whygtlakyngton^  co.  Somerset,  the  younger,  ^  gentilman,' 
for  not  appearing  before  John  Frysot  and  14s  fellows  to  answer 
Richard  Castelman  touching  a  debt  of  40/.  Somerset. 

Reginald  Andrewe  late  of  the  parish  of  St.  Mary's,  Stronde,  co.  Middle- 
sex, alias  of  the  parish  of  Melkysham,  co.  Wilts,  ^gentilman,'  for  not 
appearing  to  answer  Thomas  Brent  and  Ridiard  Sperman,  citizen 
and  skinner  of  London,  touching  debt^  of  40^.  and  60s.  respectively. 

London  and  Wilts. 

William  Bonour  late  of  Wypsenade,  co.  Bedford,  ^  husbondman,'  for  not 
ai^earing  to  answer  WiUiam  Cantelowe  touching  a  trespass. 

Bedford. 

Thomas  Symson  of  Hawenton,  co.  Stafford,  husbandman,  for  not 
appearing  to  answer  touchiitg  a  plea  of  Master  John  .Fakenbam, 
confrere  of  William  Dufleld,  canon  residentiary  in  the  cathedral  diuroh 
of  St.  Peter,  York,  and  canon  of  the  collegiate  churches  of  St.  Mary, 
Suthwell,  and  St.  John,  Beverley,  and  Master  Thomas  Menskip, 
executors  of  the  will  of  the  said  canon,  that  he  render  to  them  12/. 

Stafford. 

Henry  Haye  late  of  Draghton,  co.  Norfolk^  'husbondman,'  for  not 
af^waring  to  answer  John  Bertelet  touching  a  debt  of  100». 

John  Bampton  late  of  Plexbury,  co.  Cornwall,  alias  of  Stratton,  co. 
Cornwall,  ^  gentilman,'  for  not  appearing  before  Richard  Neuton  and 
bis  fellows,  justices  of  the  Bench  of  the  late  king,  to  answer  a  plea  of 
Thomas  Tregodek,  touching  a  debt  of  20/.,  and  a  plea  of  Roger 
Holbech,  'taillour,'  William  Alard,  'skynner,'  and  John  StunnouUi 
late  of  London,  *  grocer,'  executors  d  the  will  of  Roger  White, 
esquire,  that  he  render  to  them  30/.  London. 

William  Traas,  citizen  and  meroer  of  London,  late  of  London,  for  not 
appearing  before  the  justices  of  the  late  king,  to  answer  John 
Whekr,  late  citizen  and  girdler  of  London,  touching  a  debt  of 
10/.  Ss.  4d.  Middlesex. 


2  EDWARD  IV.— Pabt  I. 


175 


1463. 

Feb.  8. 
Westminster. 


Jan.  24. 

Westminster. 


Feb.  10. 
Westminster. 


Feb.  12. 
Westminster. 

Jan.  4. 
Westminster. 


Jan.  24. 

Westminster. 


Membrane  26 — coni, 

John  Eoger  late  of  Bristol, '  chapman/  nlias  John  Boggers,  *  mercer/ 
for  not  appearing  before  the  justices  of  the  Bench  of  the  present 
king,  to  answer  a  plea  of  John  Senjcle  of  London,  *  haburdassher/ 
touching  a  debt  of  62s,  5d,  and  a  plea  that  he  render  chattels  to  the 
Talue  of  40  marks  to  Eobert  Fraunces.  Middlesex. 

Simon  Markaunt  of  Little  Stoughton,  co.  Bedford, '  husbondman,*  for 
not  appearing  before  John  Prjsot  and  his  fellows,  justices  of  the 
Bench  of  the  late  king,  to  answer  Thomas  Mjljs  touching  a  trespass. 

Huntingdon. 

Robert  Bradwaj  of  Little  Stoneham,  co.  Suffolk,  ^joman,'  for  not 
appearing  to  answer  a  plea  of  Thomas  Danyell,  esquire,  late  sheriff 
of  Suffolk,  that  he  render  his  account  for  the  time  when  he  was 
his  receiver.  Norwich. 

John  Bakere  of  Bynham,  co.  Norfolk,  ^  joman,'  for  not  appearmg  to 
answer  the  prior  of  St.  Faith^s,  Horsham,  touching  a  debt  of  12 
marks  6^.  Sd.  Norfolk. 

Bichard  Wenslawe  late  of  Metryngham,  co.  Lincoln,  esquire,  executor 
of  the  will  of  James  Kjghley  late  of  York,  *'  mardbaunt,'  for  not 
appearing  before  the  justices  of  the  Bench  of  the  present  king  with 
Bichard  Kjghlej,  late  of  Mitforth,  chaplain,  aUcts  vicar  of  the  parish 
church  of  Mitforth,  co.  Northumberland,  executor  of  the  sud  will, 
to  answer  a  plea  that  he  render  19/.  to  the  abbot  of  St.  Mary's, 
York.  City  of  York. 

Thomas  Pylsshe  of  Asshewell,  co.  Hertford,  ^  yoman,'  William  Heynes 
of  Shepereth,  co.  Cambridge,  ^  yoman,'  and  John  Seman  of  Boy^tpn, 
CO.  Cambridge,  'husbondman,'  executors  of  the  will  of  Thomas 
Heynes  late  of  Wyllyngham,  co.  Cambridge,  '  drover,'  for  not 
appearing  to  answer  a  plea  that  they  render  21/.  to  William  Alde- 
wynde,  esquire.  Northampton. 


1462. 

Oct.  30. 

Westminster. 


1463. 

Feb,  6. 
Westminster. 


Feb.  6. 
Westminster. 

Jan*  24. 

Westminster. 

Feb.  7. 
Westniittstflr. 

Feb.  9. 

Westminster. 


Jan.  24. 

Westminster. 


Membrane  25. 

William  Toleslo  of  Toleslo  in  the  parish  of  Yirstawe,  co.  Devon, 
'  husbondman,'  for  not  appearing  before  John  Frysot  and  his  fellows, 
justices  of  the  Bench  of  the  late  king,  to  answer  touching  pleas  of 
Bichard  Levermore  the  elder  and  John  Drake,  ^bocher,*  of  debts 
of  40s.  and  6  marks  6^.  Sd.  respectively.  Devon. 

Bobert  Cnrteys  of  Marham,  co.  Norfolk,  ^  husbondmaa,'  for  not  appear* 
ing  when  sued  with  John  Louthe  of  Bartonbendyche,  co.  Nonolk, 
*  husbondman,'  and  Bichard  Louthe  of  Bartonbendyche,  *  laborer,^  to 
answer  William  Stoneham  touching  a  trespass. 

William  Mathyn  late  of  Coventre, '  marchaunt,'  for  not  appearing  to 
answer  Bobert  Whytehete  touching  a  debt  of  10/.  •    Wiyrwick. 

John  Mobbys  of  Ely,  co.  Cambridge,  *  husbondman,'  for  not  appearing 
to  answer  John  Auntell  touching  a  debt  of  10  marks.  Norfolk. 

Bernard  Bemyng  late  of  Bristol, '  marchaunt,'  for  not  appearing  to 
answer  Bichard  Pery  touching  a  trespass.  Essex. 

William  London  of  Shelley  by  Hadlegh,  co.  Suffolk,  *  husbondman,'  for 
not  appearing  to  answer  John  Aylewyn  of  Great  Stanbregge 
touching  a  debt  of  40; .  Essex. 

John  Seman,  Thomas  Pylsshe  and  William  Heynes  for  not  appearing 
before  the  justices  of  the  Bench  as  stated  above.  See  last  mem-' 
brane.  Northampton, 


176  CALENDAR  OP  PATENT  BOLLS. 


1468.  Membrane  25 — cont. 

Jan.  24.  The  said  William  Hejnjs,  late  of  Rojgton,  co.  Hertford,  ^drover/ 

Wettminiter.  for  the  same;   and  for  not  appearing  to  answer  a  plea  of  Hugh 

Ljnallys  alias  Ljnalsse  of  Slaweston,  ^gentilman/  touching  a  debt  of 
20/.  Northampton. 

Feb.  12.  Nicholas  Riggebj  late  of  Kjngeston  on  Thames,  co.  Surrej,  ^  joman/ 

WestminBter.  for  not  appearing  to  answer  Richard  Tumour  touching  a  trespass. 

Town  of  Nottingham. 


1462. 


MSMBRANB  24. 


March  20.       Authority  for  the  king's  kinsman  Richard,  earl  of  Warwick,  whom  the 
Westminster,  king  appointed  on  13  February  to  the  safe-custodj  of  the  sea,  to  levy  con- 
tributions from  any  places  of  the  king's  enemies,  provided  tliat  it  be  not 
prejudicial  to  the  captain  of  Calais  or  his  lieutenant.     [^Fcedera.']       By  K. 

Feb.  23.  Grant  in  frank  almoiu  to  the  prior  and  convent  of  the  house  of  the 

Westminster.  Salutation  of  the  Mother  of  God  of  the  Carthusian  order  by  London  of  the 
alien  priory  of  Okebourne  and  the  manor  of  Okeborne  alias  Okebourne 
Seynt  G^rge  in  Great  Okebourne  and  Little  Okebourne,  co.  Wilts,  and  all 
lands,  rents,  services,  chantries,  advowsons,  liberties,  views  of  frank  pledge, 
waifs,  strays,  leets,  courts  baron,  wards,  marriages  and  other  profits  and 
appurtenances  in  the  same.  By  K. 

Vacated  because  elsewhere  in  the  first  year. 

Aug.  16.  Pardon,  for  46«.  8cf.  paid  in  the  hanaper,  of  the  trespass  in  the 
Westminster,  acquisition  without  licence  by  Joan  Gedeney  alicu  Large,  widow,  deceased, 
from  Thomas  Staunton,  citizen  and  mercer  of  London,  of  an  acre  of  land  in 
the  manor  of  Pembrokes  alicu  Penbrokis,  an  acre  of  land  in  the  manor  of 
Bruses  a/ta«  Brewses,  an  acre  of  land  in  the  manor  of  Daubeneys  alias 
Dawbeneys,  and  an  acre  of  land  in  the  manor  of  Mokkynges  with  its 
appurtenances  in  Totenham  and  Edelmeton,  co.  Middlesex,  and  a  messuage, 
48^  acres  of  land,  7^  acres  of  meadow  and  10  acres  of  wood  called 
^  Twyford '  and  8  acres  of  land  in  Galowfeld  in  Totenham,  held  in  chief, 
to  herself  for  life  with  remainders  to  Richard  Tumaunt  and  Joan  Stokton 
his  wife,  daughter  of  John  Stokton,  and  the  heirs  of  the  body  of  the  said 
Richard,  and  to  William,  bishop  of  Winchester,  Thomas  Westhagh,  clerk, 
John  Stokton,  John  Godyn,  Thomas  Tymyot,  Stephen  Stychemerssh^ 
Henry  Pachet,  Robert-  Snell  and  Robert  W'yllyngham  to  fulfil  the  will 
of  Richard  and  his  heirs,  and  for  the  entry  thereon  by  the  said  Richard 
after  the  death  of  Joan. 

Aug.  29«        Presentation  of  William   Savage,  chaplain,  to  the    parish  church  of 
Westmioster.  Pepillyng,  in  the  county  of  Guysnes,  in    the   parts  of  Picardy,  in  the 
diocese  of  Canterbury,  void  by  the  death  of  Richard  Davell. 

May  27.  Grant  in  fee  simple  to  the  king's  servant  Richard  Felde,  from  4  March 
Leioester.  last,  of  a  tenement  called  *  Haryottes  Place'  and  a  cottage  called  'Shephous ' 
with  all  woods,  lands  and  meadows  in  the  king's  demesne  of  Westharptre, 
CO.  Somerset,  lately  held  for  life  by  John  Heryot  of  the  demise  of  Matthew 
Goumey,  knight,  10  acres  of  pasture  called  '  Wyllyngesclose '  and  a  cottage 
with  8  acres  of  pasture  called  ^  Multonclose '  alias  ^  Wodelond,'  in  the  same, 
lately  held  by  Richard  Heryot  at  the  will  of  Henry  YI.,  a  water-mill  called 
'  Heryottes  Mille '  and  a  wood  called  ^  Old  wood '  in  the  same,  and  atonement 
called  ^  Wydecombeplace '  in  the  king's  demesne  of  Wydecombe,  co.  Somerset, 
with  other  lands  lately  held  by  Thomas  Wydecombe  and  Elena  his  wife  and 
Thomas  his  son  at  the  will  of  Henry  YI.,  and  a  tenement  in  the  latter 
demesne  lately  held  by  John  Wylde  and  Agnes  his  wife  and  William 
his  son  at  the  will  of  Henry  YI.,  to  hold  in  the  same  manner  as  John 
Daundesey  lately  held  these  of  the  grant  of  Henry  YI.,  rendering  to  the 


2  EDWARD  IV.— Part  I.  177 


1462.  Membrane  24 — cont 

king  I2d.  yearly  for  all  servicer,  fealties  excepted;  and  ^rant  that  the 
tenants  of  the  king's  lordships  of  Westharptre  and  Wydecombe  shall  always 
grind  at  the  said  mill.  By  K. 

Aug.  28.        Release  to  George  Darell  of  »Sesseyy  co.  York,  knight,  of  all  actions  of  the 

^'estminster.  crown  against  him  by  reason  of  a  recognisance  which  he  made  before  E.obert 

Danby,  chief  justice  of  the  Bench,  at  York  on  13  May,  1  Edward  IV.,  in 

2000/.  to  be  paid  at  Whitsuntide  then  following.  By  p.s. 

Aug.  28.         Grant  for  life  to  Alice  Russell,  for  her  true  heart  to  the  king  and  his 
Westminster,  father,  of  all  manors  and  lands   late  of  Everard  Dygby  in  the  towns  of 
Donyngton   upon  the   heath,  Raunston   and  Whitwik  and  the  parish  of 
Whitwik,  in  the  counties  of  Leicester  and  Derby,  to  the  yearly  value  of  10/. 

By  p.8.  [1028.] 

Sept.  10.         Release  to   William  Plumpton   of  Plumpton,  co.  York,  knight,  of  all 

Westminster,  actions  of  the  crown  against  him  by  reason  of  a  recognisance  which  he  made 

before  Robeii;  Danby,  chief  justice  of  the  Bench,  at  York  on   15  May,  1 

Edward  IV.,  in  2000/.  to  be  paid  at  Whitsuntide  then  following.      By  p.s. 

Membrane  23. 

Mai'ch  6.  Revocation  of  protection  with  clause  volumus.  for  one  year,  granted 
^estmineter.  19  February  by  letters  patent  to  Thomas  Playne  alias  Plane,  citizen 
and  grocer  of  London,  going  in  the  company  of  the  king's  kinsman 
Richard,  earl  of  Warwick,  captain  of  the  king's  town  and  castle  of  Calais 
and  the  mai*ches  there,  for  the  defence  and  victualling  of  the  same,  on 
certificate  by  the  sheriffs  of  London  that  he  has  not  gone. 

March  5.         Licence  for  Reginald  Grey,  lord  of  Wilton,  to  enter  into  all  manors  and 

Westminster,  lands  of  which  Thomas,  late  lord  Rigemoud,  was  seised,  late  of  Richard 

Grey,  knight,  father  of  the  said  Reginald ;  saving  the  homage,  fealty,  relief 

and  other  services  due  to  the  king.  ^j  p.s. 

March  12.  Exemplification,  at  the  request  of  Elizabeth,  the  abbess,  and  the  convent 
Westminster,  of  St.  Saviour  and  St.  Mary  and  St.  Bridget,  Syon,  of  the  order  of  St. 
Augustine,  of  the  enrolments  on  the  rolls  of  Chancery  of  (1)  a  writing  of 
Robert,  the  provost,  and  the  scholars  of  the  college  of  Sf.  Mary  and  St. 
Nichola!>,  Cambridge,  dated  in  their  chapter  house,  26  February,  being  a 
release  by  them  to  the  said  abbess  aud  convent  of  all  their  title  in  the  priory 
of  St.  Michael's  Mount,  co.  Cornwall,  the  manor  of  Tileshyde,  co.  V/ilts, 
some  time  parcel  of  the  alien  abbey  of  Caen,  the  manor  and  rectory  of  Fel- 
stede,  CO.  Essex,  some  time  parcel  of  the  same,  all  lands  and  possessions 
some  time  of  the  abbey  of  St.  Nicholas,  Augers,  in  Spaldyng,  co.  Lincoln,  and 
all  fruits  from  the  church  of  Cosham,  co.  Wilts,  with  hundreds,  courts  leet, 
wapentakes,  views  of  frank-pledge,  knights'  fees,  advowsons,  liberties  and  all 
other  commodities  and  profits;  and  (2)  a  memorandum  that  the  said  provost 
and  scholars  appeared  before  William  Hastynges  of  Hastynges,  knight. 
Master  Richard  Scrop,  chancellor  of  the  University  of  Cambridge,  Jolm 
Scot,  knight.  Master  Thomas  Turneye,  doctor  of  laws,  and  William 
Alyngton  at  the  University  on  5  March  and  acknowledged  the  above. 

March  12.  Exemplification,  at  the  request  of  Robert  Calcot,  of  the  enrolments  on  the 
Westminster,  rolls  of  Chancery  of  (1)  a  writing  of  John  Wynter  of  Almain,  merchant, 
dated  10  November  last,  being  a  grant  by  him  to  John  Metheley,  Robert  Foster 
and  John  Alderley,  *  gentilmen,'  of  18  bode  of  wine  called  *  Reynyshwyne,' 
2  barrels  of  other  wine  and  5  barrels  of  oil  in  a  ship  or  *  pleight '  called 
Maryy  500  bairels  containing  20,000  pounds  of  litmose  and  7  bode  of 
*  Reynyshwyne '  in  a  ship  csdled  Cogshipy  all  his  goods  in  London  and 
elsewhere  within  the  realm  and  all  debts  due  to  him,  by  livery  of  2d, ;  mid 
(2)  a  memorandum  that  he  appeared  in  Chancery  at  Westminster  oa  19 
^November  and  acknowledged  the  above. 

M     86914.  K 


178  CA.LENDAR  OF  PATENT  ROLLS. 


\462.  Membrane  23^-cont, 

March  16.        General  pardon  to  John  Boon,  the  abbot,  and  the  (Convent  of  Burj  SU 
Westminster.  Edmunds,  co.  Suffolk,  for  treasoo^i  &c.,  and  of  any  consequent  outlawry. 

ByK. 

March  12,       Grant  to  John,  lord  Wenlok,  knight,  from  4  March  last,  of  the  custody 

Westminster,  of  all   lands  late  of  Katharine,    late    the    wife   of  Robert  Dan  vers,  in 

Abliefeld,  held  of  Edward,  late  prince  of  Wales  and  duke  of  Cornwall,  a» 

of  the  honor  of  Wallingford,  during  the  minority  of  Anne,  Isabel  and 

Sybil  her  daughters  and  heiresses,  with  their  marriages.  l^y  bill  of  p.s. 

March  15.       Appointment  of  John  Wenlok  of  Wenlok,  knight,  as  governor  of  Eleanor 
Westminster,  late  the  wife  of  James,  earl  of  Wiltshire,  attainted  of  hieh  treason  by  autho- 
rity of  Parliament  at  Westminster,  4  November,  and  of  her  jointure,  with 
the  sole  power  of  appointing  and  removing  servants  and  officers. 

Mbmbranb  22. 

March  6.  Grant  for  life  to  lliomas  Sharpe,  clerk,  of  the  office  of  chief  engrosser  of 

Westminster,  the  Exchequer  of  Ireland,  receiving  the  accustomed  fees ;  and  grant  to  him 

also  during  office  of  10  marks  yearly  from  the  king's  manor  of  Cliapelizod 

(Capelle  Isolde)  and  Salmon  Leap  {Salttu  Salmanum)^  in  part  payment  of 

the  same.  By  K« 

March  5.  Grant  to  Roland  FitzEustas,  knight,  and  the  heirs  male  of  his  body,  for 

Westminster,  bis  good  service  to  the  king's  &ther  in  his  last  journey  in  Ireland  and  to  the 
king,  that  he  shall  be  one  of  the  lords  and  barons  of  Parliament  in  Ireland 
by  tlie  name  of  lord  and  baron  of  Portlester,  co.  Meath  ;  and  grant  to  him 
and  the  heirs  male  of  his  body  of  the  manor  of  Portlester,  co.  Meath, 
rendering  to  the  king  I2d.  yearly.  By  p.s. 

March  4.         Grant  for  life  to  Maurice  Fitz  Adam,  clerk,  of  the  office- of  second  cham- 

Westmineter.  berlain  of  the  Exchequer  of  Ireland,  receiving  the  accustomed  fees ;  and 

also  a  yearly  rent  of  10  marks  in  part  payment  of  the  same  from  the  issues 

of  the  king's  manor  of  Tassagard,  co.  Dublin,  and  from  40  acres  of  land 

called  *  le  Wyndmylfeld'  by  Rathcridane,  co.  Dublin.  By  p.8. 

March  10.        Appointment,  during  pleasure,  of  Thomas  Mauncell  as  receiver  of  all 

Westminster,  castles,  lordships,  manors  and  lands  in  the  counties  of  Somerset  and  Dorset, 

in  the  king's  hands  by  reason  of  an  act  of  resumption  in  the  late  Parliament 

at  Westminster,  receiving  the  accustomed  fees.  By  bill  of  the  treasurer. 

March  6.         Grant  for  life  to  the  king's  servant  Edward  Grey,  esquire,  of  the  manor 

Westminster,   of  Loxton,  co.  Somerset,  in  the  king's  hands  by  reason  of  an  act  against 

Nicholas  Latymer,  esquire,  in  Parliament  at  Westminster,  4  November,  to 

the  yearly  value  of  10/.  By  p.s. 

Feb.  26.  Grant  in  fee  simple  to  John  Scot,  knight,  controller  of  the  king's  house- 
Westminster,  hold,  of  the  reversion  of  the  castle  and  manor  of  Chilham  and  the  manors 
of  Wilderton  and  Molesshe,  co.  Kent,  on  the  death  of  Maijory,  late  the 
wife  cf  John  Roos,  knight,  lord  of  Boos,  who  holds  the  same  in 
dower,  which  belongs  to  the  king  by  reason  of  the  forfeiture  of  Thomas 
Boos,  knight,  late  lord  of  Roos,  and  an  act  of  Parliament  at  Westminster, 
4  November,  with  knight's  fees,  advowsons,  comls  leet,  views  of  frank 
pledge,  wan  ens,  fairs,  markets  and  other  commodities;  and  also  all  lands, 
rents  and  services  in  Chilham,  Godmersham,  Trewlegh,  Chartham  and 
Molesshe,  co.  Kent,  in  the  king's  hands  as  above.  By  K. 

Vacated  because  elsewhere  in  the  first  year. 

March  5.         Grant  to   the  king's    kinswoman  Joan    sister  of  John,   late  duke  of 

Westminster.  Norfolk,  and  wife  of  William  Wilughby,  knight,  and  Cicely  her  daughter 

and  the  heirs  male  of  the  body  of  the  latter  of  the  reversion  on  the  death  of 

Katharine,  duchess  of  Norfolk,  of  all  lands,  rents  and  services  within  the 

city  of  Lincoln  called  'Beaumont  Rent'   with  knights'  fees,  advowsons. 


I 


2  EDWARD  iV.— Pabt  L  1»9. 


1462.  Membrane  22^^coHi, 

franchises  and  liberties,  which  she  hold&  in  dower  of  the  endowment  of  John, 
/late  visGoant  Beaumont,  her  husband,. rendering  to.  the  king  a  red  rose  at 
Midsummer.  By  p.s. 

Vacated  because  otherwise  below. 

I  March  5.  .      Grant  for  life  to  the.king^s  kinswoman  Katharine^  duchess  of  Norfolk,  of 

I  Westmiiister.  the  manors  of  Bei'ton  and  SteVeton^  co.  Lincoln,  with  liberties,  franchises, 

I  advowsons  and  knight's  fees,  in  the  king's  hands  by  authority  of  j^arliament 

at  Westminster,  4  NoTember,  rendering  the  accustomed  services  at  Mid^ 
summer.  By  p.s. 

Ghnant  to  the  king's  kinswoman  Joan  sister  of  John,  late  duke  of  Norfolk, 
and  wife  of  Wilh'am  Wilughby,  knight,  and  Cicely  her  daughter  and  the 
heirs  ihale  of  the  body  of  the  latter  of  the  reversion  on  the  death  of  Elatha- 
rine,  duchess  of  Norfolk,  of  the  manors  or  lordships  of  Edenham,  Billing- 
burgh,  Lynwod  Beaumont  and  Thoresway  Beaumont,  co.  Lincoln,  and  all 
lands,  rents  and  services  within  the  city  of  Lincoln  called  'Beaumont  Rent ' 
with  knights'  fees,  advowson^,  franchises  and  liberties,  which  she  holds  in 
dower  of  the  endowment  of  John,  late  viscount  Beaumont,  her  husband, 
rendering  to  the  king  a  red  rose  at  Midsummer.  By  p.s. 

July  3.  Presentation  of  Master  Richard  Boseworth,  parson  of  the  parish  diurdi 

^Mtmiaster.  of  Brougbton  Asteley,  in  the  diocese  of  Lincoln,  to  the  church  of 
Great  Billyng,  in  the  same  diocese,  on  an  exchange  of  benefices  with  Thomas 
Persebrigge. 

July  16.  Grant  to  the  king's  servant  Richard  Langport,  derk,  of  the  manor  of 

WestmiDster.  Somersbury  in  the  parish  of  Ewhurst,  co.  Surrey,  from  Michaelmas  last  so 

long  as  it  remains  in  the  Icing's  hands,  without  rendering  anything  for 

^  the  same.     The  manor  was  taken  into  the  hands  of  the  late  king  by  virtue 

of  an  inquisition  taken  before  William  Brigges,  escheator  of  the  county, 
on  3  November,  36  Henry  VI.  by  which  it  was  found  that  John  Busse- 
brigge  was  seised  in  his  demesne  as  of  fee  of  it,  that  it  is  held  in  chief  by 
knight  sei*vice  and  by  a  rent  of  I4s,  yearly  payable  at  Gumhulst,  co.  Surrey, 
at  the  return  of  the  sheriff  at  Michaelmas,  that  the  said  John  died  without 
heir  of  his  body  on  1  April,  22  Henry  VI.  that  the  manor  is  worth  40^. 
yearly,  and  that  Robert  Bussebrigge  his  brother  and  next  heir  who  was  of 
the  age  of  18  years  had  granted  it  to  Thomas  Playstowe  and  his  heirs 
and  assigns.  By  p.s. 

Membrane  21. 

March  6.         Appointment  during  pleasure,  to  John  Wykes,  esquire,  one  of  the  ushers 

Westminster,  of  the  king's  chamber,  as  receiver  and  approver  of  the  lordship  and  manor 

of  Dolyngham,  co.  Cambridge,  and  the  manor  and  park  of  Lanam,  co.  Suffolk, 

late  of  John,  late  earl  of  Oxford,  and  forfeited  to  the  crown  by  his  rebellion, 

receiving  the  accustomed  fees  from  the  issues  of  the  manors. 

March  5.  Grant  to  Thomas,  archbishop  of  Canterbury,  and  George,  bishop  of 
Westminster.  Exeter,  the  king's  kinsmen,  and  Joan  wife  of  William  Beaumont,  knight, 
late  lord  Beaumont,  daughter  of  Humphrey,  late  duke  of  Buckingham,  and 
the  heirs  of  her  body,  for  the  use  of  herself  and  her  said  heirs,  with 
remainder  to  the  said  William  Beaumont  and  the  heirs  of  his  body,  of  the 
manors  and  lordships  of  Stowe  Bardolf,  Roughton,  FaresweU,  Whymbergh, 
Matesball,  Erpyngham,  Wjkmere,  Canteleye,  Strompeshawe,  Castre  Bardolf, 
and  Ilketsale,  co.  Norfolk,  Donyngton,  Bromdyssb,  Cretyngham  and  Clopton, 
CO.  Suffolk,  Whatton  att  Stone,  co.  Hertford,  Halton,  co.  Oxford,  Wilbram, 
CO.  Cambridge,  Ryskyngton,  Dygby,  Westburgh  and  Cathorp,  co.  Lincoln, 
and  all  lands,  rents,  services,  knights'  fees,  advowsons,  courts  leet,  hundreds, 
wapentakes,  views  of  frank -pledge,  parks,  wairens,  fairs,  markets,  liberties 
and  franchises  belonging  to  them,  late  of  Thomas,  late  lord  Bfu*dolf,  or 
William  Phelipp,  late  lonl  Bardolf,  in  the  king's  hands  by  reason  of  an  act 

M  2 


180  CALENDAR  OF  PATENT  ROLLS- 


1402.  Membrane  21'^cotU. 

of  forf^ture  in  Parliamrat  at  Westminstery  4  November,  against  the  said 
William  Beaumont,  \nth  the  exception  of  the  manors  and  lordships  of 
Plumpton,  BirljDg  and  Bercombe,  co.  Sassex,  and  an  inn  in  London  near 
*  Pawleswarff '  reserved  to  the  croirn,  with  issues  from  4  November.  By  K. 

Grant  for  life  to  William  Josljn  of  the  office  of  parker  of  the  king's  park 
of  Canipesy^co.  Cambridge,  with  the  accustomed  fees.  Bj  p.s. 

March  16.        Presentation  of  William  Hamond,  chaplain,  to  the  parish  church  of  St. 
Westminster.   Laurence,  Bjsyng  Castell,  in  the  diocese  of  Norwich,  void  by  the  death  of 
Bobert  Feribj,  chaplain. 

March  18.        Appointment,  during  pleasure,  of  John  Bourghchier  of  Bamars,  knight, 

Westminster,  to  the  custody  of  the  manors  of  Braunston>  Chasfeld,  Fenhalle  in  Sutton, 

Groundesburgh,  Belynges,  Todenham,  Newton  and  Westerfeld,  co.  Suffolk, 

late  of  Thomas  Tudenham,  knight,  and  in  the  king's  hands  by  his  forfeiture, 

answering  at  the  Exchequer  for  the  issues  of  the  same. 

March  12.        Appointment  of  Dan  William  Walweyn,  monk  of  Worcester,  as  prior  of 
Westminster.  Wenlok,  in  the  diocese  of  Hereford.  By  p.s.  [885.] 

March  2d.        Grant  to  William  Greneham  of  the  county  of  Rutland,  esquire,  for  his 

Westminster,   good  service  lo  the  king's  father  and  the  king,  of  the  custody  during  minority 

and  Ihe  marriage  of  John,  son  and  heir  of  John  Drewe  late  of  Peterborough, 

CO.  Northampton,  'gentilman.'  Bj  p.s. 

March  14.  Commission  to  John  Lescrop  of  Bolton,  knight,  Thomas  Cobham,  knight, 
Westminster.  John  Say,  Nicholas  Sharp,  Thomas  Stute\ile,  Ralph  Cressener  and  Thomas 
Bray  to  enquire  into  the  complaint  of  John  Doreward  and  William  Mulso 
that,  whereas  Edmund  Mulso,  knight,  was  seised  in  his  demesne  as  of  fee 
of  a  messuage,  160  acres  of  land,  19  acres  of  meadow,  668,  of  rent  and  a  rent 
of  6  capons,  in  Thaxstedc  and  Lyndesele,  and  other  lands,  rents  and  services  in 
Thaxstedc,  Lindesele,  Little  Berdefelde,  Stebbyng  and  Dunmowe,  co.  Essex, 
with  the  office  of  keeping  three  parks  in  Thaxstede  and  granted  ihe  same 
to  John  Bernard  of  Thaxstede  and  his  heirs  and  assigns,  and  the  latter 
granted  the  same  to  Humphrey,  late  duke  of  Buckingham,  William,  late 
marquis  of  Suffolk,  William  Oldehalle,  knight,  Edmund  Mulso,  knight, 
John  Harleston,  John  Stodehawe,  Thomas  Dounton  and  the  said  John  ond 
William  and  their  heirs  and  assigns  and  they  were  seised  of  the  same  in  time 
of  peace  in  the  lime  of  Henry  VI.  and  the  said  duke,  William  Oldehalle, 
John  Doreward  and  William  Mulso  survived  the  others,  they  were  unjustly 
disseised  of  the  same  by  the  king's  father  Richard,  late  duke  of  York,  and 
the  duke  of  Buckingham  and  William  Oldehalle  have  since  died  and  the 
possessions  passed  on  the  death  of  the  duke  of  York  to  the  king.         By  K. 

March  20.  Licence  for  Alice  late  the  wife  of  .Benedict  Harlewyn,  late  citizen  nnd 
Westminster,  clothier  of  London,  or  her  executors  to  found  a  chantry  of  one  chaplain 
to  celebrate  divine  service  daily  at  the  altar  of  the  Holy  Trinity  in 
the  church  of  St.  Christopher  in  the  ward  of  Brndstrete,  London,  for  the 
good  estate  of  the  king  and  John  Wenlok,  knight,  lord  of  Wenlok,  and 
nerself  and  for  their  souls  after  death  and  the  souls  of  the  king's  father 
Richard,  late  duke  of  York,  and  the  said  Benedict,  to  be  called  Alson 
Harlewyn  'Ghaunterie;'jand  for  the  acquisition  in  mortmain,  after  inquisition, 
by  ihe  said  chaplain  oi  lands,  rents,  services  and  other  possessions,  not 
held  in  chief,  to  the  value  of  12/.  yearly  for  his  sustenance. 

By  p.s.  and  for  8/.  paid  in  the  hanaper. 

March  28*        Grant  for  life  to  Thomas  Mongomery,  king's  knight,  one  of  the  king's 

Westminster.  *  kervers '  {trenchiatorum)j  of  a  yearly  rent  of  20/.  from  the  issues  of  the 

counties  of  Noifolk  and  Suffolk.  By  p.s.  [896.] 

March  20.        Signification  to  W.   bishop  of  Winchester  of    the  royal  assent  to  the 

WestmiDstcr.   election  by  him  of  William  Wroughton,  professor  of  theology,  monk  of  the 

cathedral  of  Winchester,  as  abbot  of  St.  Peter's,  Chertesey,  in  the  diocese  of 


2  EDWARD  IV.— Part  I.  181 


1462.  Membrane  21 — cont. 

Winchester,  in  the  place  of  Thomas  Angowjn,  late  abbot,  resigned,^  in 
accordance  with  the  power  granted  to  him  by  the  prior  and  convent.       ■> 


Membrane  20. 

March  4.         Grant  for  life  to  Robert  Fitz  Harry  of  the  office  of  clerk  of  the  common 

We«minster.  pleas  of  the  Exchequer  of  Ireland,  with  the  accustomed  fees  at  the  hands  of 

the  treasurer  of  Ireland.  By  p.s. 

March  4.  The  like  to  James  Wellesley,  esquire,  of  an  annuity  of  10  marks  yearly 
Westminster,  at  the  hands  of  the  receivers,  farmers  and  occupiers  of  the  king's  manors  of 
Belskeagh  and  Rathconre^  co.  Meath,  in  Ireland,  standing  on  the  frontiers 
of  tlie  marches  adjoining  the  Connors,  the  king's  Irish  enemies,  by  whom 
they  have  been  greatly  wasted,  in  consideration  of  a  like  grant  to  him  of  an 
annuity  of  lOOf.  from  the  same  granted  by  the  king  in  consideration  of  his 
good  service  to  his  father.  By  p.s.  [866i] 

March  13.        Appointment,  during  pleasure,  of  Thomas  Herbert,  one  of  the  esquires  of 

Westminster,  the  body,  to  the  custody  of  the  manor  of  Bekford,  co.  Gloucester,  and  all 

lands  and  tenements  in  that  county  formerly  of  the  alien  abbot  of  Baylbek, 

in  the  king's  hands  by  reason  of  an  act  of  Parliament  at  Westminster, 

4  November,  answering  for  the  issues  of  the  same  at  the  Exchequer. 

Feb.  20.  Grant  for  life  to  John  Ottnr  of  all  lands,  rents  and  services  in  Padyng* 

Westminster,  thorp  and  Hornyngton,  co.  York,  of  which  William  Taylboys,  esquire, 
rebel,  was  seised,  in  the  king's  hands  by  his  forfeiture.  By  p.s. 

Vacated  because  in  the  first  year. 

March  15.  Appointment,  for. such  time  as  her  husband  is  alive,  of  John  Wenlok  of 
Wenlok,  knight,  as  keeper  and  governor  of  Eleanor  wife  of  Robert  Hunger- 
ford,  late  lord  of  Hungerford  and  Moleyns,  knight,  attainted  of  high  treason 
by  authority  of  Parliament  at  Westminster,  4  November,  and  her  two  younger 
sons  and  her  only  daughter  and  all  the  lordships,  manors,  lands  and  possessions 
which  her  husband  held  in  her  right,  from  Michaelmas  last  so  long  as  they 
remain  in  the  king's  hands.  lie  is  to  appoint  and  remove  all  servants,  and 
to  levy  all  rents  and  issues  and  expend  them  on  the  sustenance  of  the  said 
Eleanor  and  her  children  and  six  servants  in  her  company  and  two  servants 
in  the  company  of  her  children  and  other  reasonable  expenses  and  to 
account  to  the  king  for  the  surplus. 

The  like  of  the  said  John  Wenlok  as  keeper  and  governor  of  Anne,  wife 
of  Edmund  Hampden,  knight,  attainted  as  above,  and  the  castles, 
lordships,  manors,  lands  and  possessions,  which  they  held  in  her  right. 

May  7.  Appointment,  during  pleasure,  of  William  Hill  to  take  stone-cutters, 

Westminster,  masons,  carpenters,  plumbers,  tilers,  smiths,  plasterers  and  other  workmen 
at  the  king's  wages  for  the  repairs  of  the  palace  of  Westminster,  the  Tower 
of  London  and  the  manor  of  Kenyngton  and  elsewhere  within  the  realm, 
and  also  stone,  timber,  iron,  lead,  glass,  tiles,  laths,  shingles,  boards,  nails^ 
and  other  necessaries,  and  carriage  for  the  same. 

May  13.  Presentation  of  Robert  Segeforth,   chnplain,  to   the   parish  church  of 

Westminster.  Graynesby,  in  the  diocese  of  Lincoln,  void  by  the  resignation  of  John 
Broune. 

«  

May  23.  Pardon  to  John  Fyssher  of  Pedeltowne,  co.  Dorset,  '  husbondman,'  of  his 

Westminster,  outlawry  in  the  county  of  Devon  for  not  appearing  before  John  Prysot  and 
his  fellows,  justices  of  the  Bench  of  the  late  king,  to  satisfy  John  Gierke  of 
40s.  which  the  latter  recovered  against  him  before  the  said  justices  and 
13^.  4d.  damages;  he  having  surrendered  to  the  Flete  prison  as  Rol^ert 
Danby,  chief  justice,  has  certified. 


'i8(2  CALENDAR  OF  PATENT  BOLLS* 


1462.  Membrane  19. 

Iforch  81.  OfmiI  ta  tlie  king's  BCfrritor  ^Richard  Croft  the  elder,  esquire,  and  the 
Wettmiotter.  heirs  male  ol  his  bodj  of  the  manor  of  Barf ord  with  its  appurtenances  in 
the  countj  of  Salop  and  the  advowson  of  the  church  of  Burford,  to  the 
value  of  20/.  jearlj,  all  lands,  rents  and  services  in  Karkedon,  co.  Worcester, 
to  the  value  of  60#.  yearly,  and  all  lands,  rents  and  services  in  Levntwardyn 
wiihin  the  honour  or  lordship  of  Wyggemore,  to  the  value  ox  5  marks 
yearly,  in  the  king's  hands  by  reason  of  the  forfeiture  of  Thomas  Comewaile, 
esquire,  attainted  in  the  Parliament  held  at  Westminster,  4  November  last, 
at  a  rent  of  \d^  yearly  at  Michaelmas.  By  p.s. 

March  15.        Mandate  to  all  bailiffs  and  others  to  permit  Richard  Henrys,  a  native  of 

Wettminster.  Edynburgh  in  Scotland,  staying  at  London,  who  has  taken  an  oath  of 

fealty,  to  inhabit  the  realm  peaceably  and  enjoy  his  goods.  By  K. 

April  2.         Grant  to  the  king's  servant  Thomas  Palmer  of  the  county  of  Leicester, 

Westminster.  Tgentilman,'  iot  his  good  aervioe  to  the  king's  father  and  the  king  and  his 

losses  to  the  amount  of  340/.,  of  the  manor  of  Fretheby,  co.  Leicester, 

lately  belonging  to  Thomas,  late  lord  of  Boos,  and  in  the  king's  hands  by 

.  reason  of  an  act  in  Parliament  at  Westminster,  4  November,  not  exceeding 

the  yearly  value  of  16/.,  for  10  years  from  Michaelmas  last.  Bj  p.s. 

April  1.  Appointment,  during  pleasure,  from  Michaelmas  last,  of  John  Stourton 

Weftminster.  of  Stourton,  knight,  to  the  custody  of  all  castles,  lordships,  manors,  lands 
and  possessions  late  of  Robert,  lord  Hungerford,  deceased,  of  which 
John  Say,  John  Mervyn,  G-regory  Westby  and  others  were  seised  by  him 
for  the  payment  of  his  debts  and  dbe  finance  of  Robert  his  son  and  heir,  with 
some  merchant  or  merchants,  and  which  are  now  in  the  king's  hands. 

April  2.  Grant  to  Richard  Sapcote,  in  repayment  of  40/.  lent  to  the  king  when  he 

Westminster,  was  last  in  the  town  of  Calais,  that  he  may  retain  6t.  8 J.  from  &e  custom 

on  each  sack  of  wool  and  the  same  from  the  custom  of  every  240  wool*fells 

of  Lis  own  shipping  {eskippaiione)  coming  into  the  port  of  Ipswich,  until 

he  be  fully  satisiied.  By  p.s.  [895.] 

March  30.        Grant  to  William  Huse  and  the  heirs  male  of  his  body  of  the  manor  of 
Westeunster.  Burton  Pedwardyn,  co.  Lincoln,  late  of  Thomas  BanyelL  By  p.s. 

April  10.         Presentation  of  John  Rysshton,  chaplain  of  the  chantrv  of  Holy  Cross  in 
Westminster,  the  church  of  Stanlak,  in  the  diocese  of  Lincoln,  to  the  church  of  St.  Giles, 
Wynchelsey,  in  the  diocese  of  Chichester,  on  au  exchange  of  benefices  with 
Philip  AppliowelL 

April  10.        Presentation  of  Robert  ap  Ever,  chaplain,  to  the  church  of  Llanyckill  in 
Westminster.  Penlyn  in  North  Wales,  in  the  diocese  of  St.  Asaph,  void  bv  the  death  of 
David  Lloit,  in  the  king's  gift  by  reason  of  the  temporalities  of  the  bishopric 
being  in  his  hands. 

April  15.         Presentation  of  Roger  Gery,  rector  of  the  parish  church  of  Dommer,  in 

Westminster,   the  diocese  of  Winchester,  to  the  parish  church  of  Whitchirch,  in  the 

diocese  of  Lincoln,  on  an  exchange  of  benefices  with  brother  John  Argenteyn. 

April  14.         Appointment,  during  pleasure,   of  the   king's  kinsman  John,  earl  of 
\\restminBter.   Worcester,  as  treasurer  of  the  Exchequer,  with  the  accustomed  fees. 

ByK. 

April  23.        General  pardon  to  John  Heydon  alias  Haydon  of  the  county  of  Norfolk, 
Westmioster.  <  gentilman.'  By  K. 

April  26.        Licence  for  the  prioress  and  convent  of  Romsey  to  elect  an  abbess  in  the 
Westminster,  place  of  Matilda  Lovell,  deceased. 

April  28.        Presentation  of  Master  John  Segden  to  the  parish  church  of  Llancather 
Westaninster.  Moghtenet,  in  the  diocese  of  St.  Asaph,  void  by  the  death  of  David  Keffyn. 

April  26.         Grant  for  life  to  Master  William  Hobbys,  the  king's  surgeon,  of  two 

Westminster,  parts  of  a  place,  a  wharf,  a  crane  and  divers  houses  in  the  parish  of  St. 

Martin  in  the  Vintry,  London,  late  of  John,  late  duke  of  B^ford,  in  the 


2  EDWARD  XV.— Pabt  I.  IBS 

.   ,-5. 


1462*  Membrane  19^-con/» 

king's  hands  by  virtue  of  an  act  of  resamption  in  Parliam^t^  28  H^^orjiYI., 

.  '-  h    to.  the  value.of  .14/.  yearly,  Baving  the  right  of  Jaqiietta^-^uf^esspf  Bedford, 

in  the  samei  By  p.8. 

'Mar  IG.         Presentation  of  Master  William  Broun  to  the  parish  church  of  St.  Mary, 
, Wefttminster.  Kelleseye,  in  the  diocese  of  Lincoln.         .  . 

May  12.         Grant,  during  pleasure,  to  William  Baldre  of  the  office  of  tronage  and 

Westminster,  pesage  in  the  port  of  Ipswich  and  ports  and  places  adjacent,  reoetving  the 

accustomed  fees.  By  bill  of  treasurer. 

April  19.  *     Orant  for  life  to  William  Phelipp,  servant  of  the  king's  kinsman  John, 

Westminster,  earl  of  Worcester,  of  the  office  of  the  bailiwick  of  Ha¥Fe  and  Trylley,  co. 

Gloucester,  receiving  40*.  yearly  for  the  same  in  the  same  manner  as  other 

occupants  of  the  office.  By  p.8; 

Mbmbranb  18. 

March  6.  Appointment,  during  pleasure,  of  William  Tempyll  and  Gregory  Griffith 
Westminster,  to  take  caipenters  called  ^  whelers '  and  *  cartwrightes '  and  others,  stone- 
cntterst  smiths,  plumbers  and  other  workmen  for  the  works  of  the  king's 
ordnance,  and  idso  bombards,  cannons, '  culveryn&«,'  *  fowlei-s,'  '  serpentynes,* 
and  other  cannons,  powders,  sulphur,  saltpetre,  stones,  iron,  lead  and  other 
equipment,  crossbows  and  bolts  for  them,  bows,  arrows,  ^  bowestrengis,* 
^  langedebeves,'  lances, '  gleyves,'  hammers  and  other  necessaries  and  carriage 
for  the  same  and  horses  called  *  hakeneys.' 

The  like  of  John  Gye,  clerk  of  the  king's  ordnnnce,  Itnd  Edmund 
Selander. 

March  14.        Appointment,  during  pleasure,  of  William  Weldon  as  auditor  of  the 
Westminster,  accounts  of  all  ministers  of  the  king's  possessions  in  South  Wales,  receiving 
the  same  wages  as  Richard  Bedeford,  late  one  of  the  auditors. 

By  bill  of  the  treasurer. 

March  12.       Grant  for  life  to  Bobert  Ketilwell  of  the  office  of  purveyor  of  divers  stones 

Westminster,  in  the  countv  of  Kent  for  the  king's  works  at  the  palace  of  Westminster, 

the  Tower  of  London  and  the  manors  of  Shene,  Eltham  iuid  Kenyngton, 

with  the  accustomed  fees  from  the  issues  of  the  king's  lordship  of  Middelton 

and  his  hundreds  of  Midelton  and  Merden.  By  p.s. 

March  5.         Pardon  to  the  king's  uncle  William,  earl  of  Kent,  and  Robert  Ingilton, 
Westminster,  of  London, '  gentilman,'  late  escheator  in  the  county  of  Northampton,  of  all 
fines  and  accounts  due  from  them,  and  of  any  consequent  outlawry. 

ByK. 

March  16.        Grant  for  life  to  the  king's  servitor  William  Pault  of  the  custody  of  the 

Westminster,   king's  park  of  Byfleto,  co.  Surrey,  and  his  warren  there  from  25  July  last, 

with  the  accustomed  fees  from  the  issues  of  the  king's  manor  or  lordship  of 

Byflete,  in  lieu  of  another  grant  to  him  of  the  same  by  letters  patent  dated 

25  July,  surrendered  as  being  insufficient.  By  K. 

March  4.        The  like  to  Richard  Brenan  and  John  Godyng  of  the  office  of  second 
Westminster,   engrosser  of  the  Exchequer  of  Ireland,  receiving  the  accustomed  fees ;  and 
grant  to  them  also  during  office   of  10   marks  yearly  from  the   king's 
fee  farm  of  Chapelizod  and  Salmon  Leap  in  part  payment  of  the  same. 

By  p.8. 

March  12.  Grant  to  the  king's  servant  John  Wenlok,  knight,  lord  of  Wenlok,  and 
Westminster,  the  heirs  of  his  body,  of  all  lordships,  manors  and  knds  with  knights'fees 
and  advowsons  late  of  John  Fortescue,  knight,  in  the  counties  of  Middlesex 
and  Hertford  and  the  reversion  of  the  manor  of  Eburton,  co.  Gloucester,  on 
the  death  of  Jocosa  Guewell  alicts  Beauchampte,  widow,  belonging  to  the 
king  by  reason  of  the  forfeiture  of  the  said  John  Fortescue.  Qj  p,8. 

Vacated  becatue  otherwise  below* 


1S4  CALENDAR  OF  PATENT  ROLLS. 


1462.  Metnbrane  18— con/. 

March  14.        Appointment,  during  pleasure,  of  the  said  John  Wcnlok  to  the  cufitodT- 
Westminster,   of  the  manors  of  Oxcburgh  and  Calcote,  the  hundreds  of  Laundjssh  and 

Suthegrenehowe,  and  other  lands,  rents  and  services  in  Oxeburgh,  Calcote, 

Foulden,   Clej  and  Shjngham,  co.  Norfolk,  late  of  Thomas  Tadenham,. 

knight,  and  in  the  king's  hands  through  his  forfeiture,  answering  for  the- 

issues  of  the  same  nt  the  Exchequer. 

1468. 

Jan.  20.  Grant  in  fee  simple  to  the  king's  kinsman  John,  earl  of  Worcester,  of  an 

Westminster,   annuity  of  20/.  from  the  fee  farm  of  the  town  of  Cambridge  in  lien  of  a  like- 

annuitj  from  the  issues  of  the  county  of  Worcester,  annulled  by  authority 

of  Parliament  at  Westminster.  By  p.s» 

1462, 

May  6.  Appointment,  during  pleasure,  of  William  Malpnce,  groom  of  the  king's 

Westminster,   chjimber,  as  keeper  of  the  park  of  Dodyngherst,  eo.  Essex,  lately  belonging. 

to  John  Veer,  late  earl  of  Oxford,  a  rebel,  and  in  the  king's  hands  through 

his  forfeiture,  with  the  accustomed  fees.  By  p.s. 

May  7.  Grant  to  Robert  Cousyn,  clerk  of  the  king's  great  wardrobe,  of  all  goods- 

Westminster,   belonging  to  the  king  by  the  forfeiture  of  Oliver  Kyng  late  of  Cambridge, 
clerk.  By  p.s^ 

Membrane  17. 

March  4.         Appointment  for  life  of  Thomas  Dowdull  as  the  king's  serjeant  at  law  in 
Westminster.    Ireland,  with  the  accustomed  fees.  By  p.s, 

March  15.  Appointment  of  John  Wenlok  of  Wenlok,  knight,  as  keeper  and  governor 
Westminster,  of  Anne,  wife  of  Edmund  Hampden,  knight,  attainted  of  high  treason  by 
authority  of  Parliament  at  Westminster,  4  November,  and  all  castles, 
lordships*  manors,  lands  and  possessions  which  they  held  in  her  right, 
from  Michaelmas  last  so  long  as  they  remain  in  the  king's  hands,  lie  is 
to  appoint  and  remove  all  servants,  and  to  levy  all  rents  and  issues  and 
expend  them  on  the  sustenance  of  the  said  Anne  and  four  servants  in  her 
company  and  other  reasonable  expenses  and  to  account  to  the  king  for  the 
surplus. 

March  26.  Grant  for  life  in  dower  to  the  king's  kinswoman  Margaret,  duchess  of 
Westmmster.  Somerset,  fiom  Easter,  1  Edward  IV.,  of  the  lordships  and  manors  of 
Alforth,  Bumthorpe,  Wytliym,  Strnbbe  and  Connyngesholme  and  all  lands 
and  tenements  in  those  places,  late  of  Leo,  lord  Welles,  her  late  husband, 
not  exceeding  tho  yearly  value  of  120/.,  with  knights'  fees,  advowsons  and 
other  appurtenances  in  the  county  of  Lincoln.  The  said  Leo  was  seised  of 
the  above  and  of  the  lordships  and  manors  of  Ellowe,  Aby,  Welles, 
Parteney,  Graynesby,  Litell  Grymesby,  Bradley  and  a  third  part  of  the 
lordsiiip  of  Skendilby,  sometime  called  Welles  part,  and  lauds  in  those 
places  and  in  Gouxill,  co.  Lincoln,  but  they  were  taken  into  the  king's  hands 
by  reason  of  an  act  of  Parliament  at  Westminster,  4  November.         By  p.s. 

Vacated  by  surrender  and  cancelledy  so  far  as  the  tnanors  ofBume- 
thorp  and  Strubbe  are  concerned,  because  the  king  granted  to  her  the 
manors  of  Wellezy  Graynesby^  Bradley^  Aby  and  JSkendelby  as  above 
by  letters  patent y  27  July. 

Vacated  by  surrender  and  cancelled  at  the  command  of  the  king  by 
signet  letter,  1^8  May,  8  Edu:ard  IV. 

March  28.        Grant  for  life  to  the  king's  servitor  John  Gilliet  of  the  office  of  keeper 

Westminster,   of  the  palace  and  clerk  of  the  woiks  within  the  king's  castle  of  Dublin  in 

Ireland,  with  the  accustomed  fees.  By  p.s. 

May  10.         Grant  to  George  Pilkyngton,  chaplain,  of  the  prebend  of  Arthyngton  in 
Westminster,  the  king's  chapel  of  St.  Mary  Magdalene,  Briggenoth.  By  p.s.  [918.] 

Mandate  in  pursu:mce  to  the  dean  and  chapter. 


2  EDWARD  IV.— Part  L  185 


1462.  Membrane  17 — conU 

"SivLj  5,  Grant  to  Henry  Pierpoimt,  esquire,  and  the  heirs  male  of  his  bodj  of  the 

Westminster,  manor  or  lordship  of  Stavelev,  co.  Derby,  late  of  John  Clyffordy  knight, 

late  lord  of  Clyiford,  worth  12:.  yearly,  to  hold  by  fealty  and  the  accustomed 

service.  By  p.8. 

May  12.         Mandate  to  the  escheator  m  the  county  of  Surrey  for  the  restitution  of 
Westminster,  the  temporalities  of  the  monastery  of  St.  Peter,  Chertesey,   to   William 
Wroughton,  monk  of  the  cathedral  of  Winchester,  whom   W.,  bishop  of 
Winchester,  has  elected  abbot  on  the  resignation- of  Thomas  Angewyn. 
The  like  to  the  following  : — 
Hugh  Wyche,  mayor  and  escheator  of  London. 
The  escheator  in  the  county  of  Berks. 
Writ  de  intendendo  in  pursuance  to  the  tenants. 

May  16.         Grant  to  Edmund  Grosetter  and  the  heirs  male  of  his  body  of  all  lands, 

Westminster,  woods,   moors,   rents  and   seiTices    in    the    lordship    of    Charleton,    co. 

Northumberland,  of  which  John  Beaumniint,  rebel,  was  seised  on  30  March, 

1  Edward  IV.,  not  exceeding  the  value  of  10/.  yearly.  By  p.s. 

May  4.  General  pardon  to  Richard  Knotte  alias  Sherman  of  Exeter,  co.  Devon, 

Westminster.  *yoinan.'  By  p.8. 

MEM9RANB   16. 

May  18.         Inspeximus  and   confirmation  of  letters   patent  of  the  king's  brother 

Westminster.  George,  duke  of  Clarence,  the  king's  lieutenant  in  Ireland,  dated  16  May, 

appointing  Roland  FitzEustace,  knight,  lord  of  Portelestre,  as  his  deputy 

in  Ireland  during  his  absence.  For  \  mark  paid  in  the  hanaper. 

May  15.  Grant  for  life  to  John  Gilys  of  the  office  of  packer  of  woollen  cloths, 
Westminster,  vessels  of  pewter,  rabbit  skins,  wool-fells,  '  thromes,'  and  other  mer- 
chandise within  the  port  of  Pole  and  in  '  crikes '  and  places  pertaining  to  it 
in  the  counties  of  Dorset  and  Wilts  and  the  port  of  Ipswich  and  *  crikes  * 
and  places  pertaining  to  it  in  the  counties  of  Suffolk  and  Essex,  with  all 
due  profits.  By  p.8. 

May  20.  Signification  to  W.,  bishop  of  Winchester,  of  the  royal  assent  to  the 

Westminster,  election  of  Dame  Joan  Brygges,  prioress  of  Romsey,  as  abbess  of  that 
place. 

May  27.         Presentation  of  John  Laceby,  chaplain,  to  the  paiish  church  of  Kelsey 
Leicester.      Marie,  in   the  diocese   of   Lincoln,  void   by   the  resignation   of  Thomas 
Maistre. 

Pardon  to  John  Daye  of  Kyngeston  on  Hull, '  merchaunt,'  for  his  good 

irvice  to  the  king  and  the  king's  father,  and  to  Richai'd  Calton  and  Thomas 

Stanley  of  Hull,  his  sureties,  of  sums  of  20/.  and  43/.  5^.  in  which  he  was 

indebted  to   Henry   VI.   by   writings  of  obligation    dated    31    October, 

39  ileniy  VI.,  for  subsidies  of  wool  and  fells  taken  from  Hull  to  Calais. 

By  p.s.  [944.] 

May  25.         General  pardon  to  Thomas  Horn,  chaplain,  alias  clerk.  By  p.B. 
Leicester. 

The  like  to  John   Catour  alias  Baxter  of  Ramsey,  co.  Huntingdon, 

.  *  yoman '  alias  *  wodward.'  By  p.8. 

The  like  to  Walter  Boston  alias  Botiller  alias  Baxter  alias  Baker  aliens 
Wesenham  of  Ramsey,  co.  Huntingdcn,  *  yoman.'  By  p,s. 

May  26.         The  like  to  Roger  Bigg  of  Nusted,  co.  Lircoln,  *  yoman.'  By  p.8. 

Leicester. 

Grant  for  life,  with  the  assent  of  the  king*s  brother  George,  duke  of 
Claience^  the  king's  lieutenant  iu  Ii-eland,  to  Thomas  Baryngton  of  Trym, 
esquire,  for  his  good  service  to  the  king's  father  the  duke  of  York  and  the 
king,  of  the  office  of  second  baron  of  the  Exchequer  of  Ireland,  receiving 


May  25. 

Leicester,      service 


186 


OAIiENDAB  OF  PATENT  BOLLS. 


ld.62. 


Maj  16. 
Wettminster. 


May  27. 
Leicester. 


Maj  20. 

Leicester. 


May  27. 

Westminster. 


MeMbrane  16 — cant. 

the  accustomed  feet  from  the  issQes,  fines  and  forfeitures  of  the  county  of 
!Meath  and  the  issues  of  the  king's  manor  of  Oustelricaid  in  Irefamd.       ^' 

By  pji. 

Grant  to  John  Kyngescot,  doctor,  in  recompence  of  600/.  due  to  him 
fVom  the  king's  father  and  the  king,  of  the  temporalities  of  the  bishopric  of 
CaAitle  during  its  present  TOtdance  by  the  death  d  the  hite  bishop. 

By  p.8. 

Grant  for  life  to  William  Norbourgh  of  the  office  of  keeper  of  the  king's 
manor  of  Shene,  receiving  the  accustomed  fees  from  11  May  last  from  me 
issues  of  the  king's  manors  of  Shene,  Petrisham  and  Hammes,  in  lieu  of  a 
grant  of  the  custody  by  letters  patent  dated  11  May,  surrendered.     By  p.s. 

The  like  to  the  king's  servant  John  Wharff,  from  24  June  last,  of  the 
office  of  keeper  of  the.  king's  beds  and  other  harness  within  the  Tower  of 
London  alias  keeper  of .  the  king's  small  wardrobe  there,  receiving  the 
accustomed  fees  with  wages  of  two  grooms  under  him  from  the  issues  of 
the  counties  of  Bedford  and  Buckinghaiu,  in  the  same  manner  as  Adam 
atte  Wode.  By  p.s. 

Pardon  to  the  mayor,  sheriffs,  burgesses  and  men  of  the  town  of 
Nottingham,  for  20  years,  of  20/.  yearly  out  of  the  54/.  12«.  due  to  the 
king  from  the  farm  of  the  town.  By  pjs. 


May  27. 
Leicester. 


May  30. 

Leicester. 


May  29. 

Leicester. 


Membrane  15. 

Inspeximus  of  letters  patent  dated  27  April  (see  m.  13),  being  a  grant  to 
the  king*s  kinsman  Hicliard  Neville,  earl  of  Warwick,  of  divers  castles, 
lord»bips,  manors,  and  lands ;  and  grant  to  the  said  earl  in  fee  simple  in 
lieu  of  the  above,  surrendered  and  cancelled,  of  the  manors,  lordships,  and 
towns  of  Topcliffe,  Stcrboten,  Cletop,  Bukden,  Preston,  Setill  and  Gegles- 
wike,  CO.  York,  and  all  other  lands,  rents  and  services  late  of  Henry,  earl 
of  Northumberland,  deceased,  son  of  Henry,  earl  of  Northumberland, 
deceased,  within  the  above,  and  in  Astenby  and  Cristhwaytt,  and  places 
called  Langstruath,  Langstruathdale,  Ribblesdale,  Litton  and  Littondale, 
CO.  York,  the  castles,  manors  and  lordshipn  of  Pendragon,  Burgh,  Burgham 
and  Appilby,  th^  manor  and  lordship  of  Mallerstang,  the  manor  and  lord- 
ship of  Whynfell,  co.  Westmoreland,  and  all  other  castles,  manors,  lordships, 
lands  and  possessions  late  of  John  Clyfford,  knight,  late  lord  of  Qyfford, 
in  that  county,  the  manor  and  lordship  of  Newportpanell,  co.  Buckingham, 
late  of  James,-late  earl  of  Wiltshire,  the  manor  and  lordship  of  Streynesham, 
CO.  Worcester,  late  of  John  Russell,  esquire,  and  the  king's  manors  and 
lordships  of  Morend,  co.  Northampton,  and  Atherston  and  Fulbroke,  co. 
Warwick,  with  knights'  lees,  ad  vow  sons,  return  of  writs,  courts  leet,  views 
of  frank  pledge,  parks,  warrens,  chases,  fairs,  markets,  hundreds  and  all 
other  profits  and  liberties.  By  p.s. 

Grant  for  life  to  Thomas  Erdyngton,  king's  knight,  and  Jocosa  his  wife 
of  the  manor  or  lordship  of  Bordesley  by  Aston,  co.  Warwick,  late  of 
James,  late  earl  of  Wiltshire,  in  the  king's  hands  by  reason  of  an  act  of 
forfeiture  in  Parliament  at  Westminster,  4  November,  with  knights'  fees, 
wards,  marriages,  reliefs,  escheats,  courts  leet,  views  of  frank-pledge, 
warrens,  fisheries  and  other  profits  and  liberties,  with  all  issues  from 
4  March,  1  Edward  IV.  By  p.s. 

Grant,  during  pleasure,  to  Thomais  Grey,  one  of  the  esquires  of  the  body, 
of  the  custody  of  the  manors  or  lordships  of  Weston,  Aldenam,  Cuntyes 
and  Sparamhall  in  Necton,  co.  Norfolk,  Eriswell  and  Kydyngton,  co. 
Suffolk,  and  Habyngton,  co.  Cambridge,  late  oC  Thomas  Tudenham,  knight, 
from  the  death  of  the  latter,  with  wards,  marriages,  reliefs,  escheats,  courts 


2  EDWARD  lY.— Pabt  I. 


187 


1462. 


» .* 


May  30. 
Leioester. 


May  29. 


Maj  28. 

lieicester. 


Maj  11. 

Westminster. 


Membrane  15 — cont» 

leet,  franchiaefl,  lands,  wxM>d8»  mil(B,  rea^d^.i^efvioes,  .teuea  and  profiU 
iriibont.  rendering  aaythihg  to  the  king.  Bj  K. 

Pardon  to  the  major,  bailiffs,  borgesses,  men  and  commonalty  of  the 
town  of  Northampton,  for  20  years,  of  20/.  yearly  out  of  the  180  marks  of 
the  farm  of  the  town.  By  p.s. 

Pardon  to  William  Walweyn,  monk  of  Worcester,  eUias  William,  prior 
of  Wenlok,  in  the  diocese  of  Hereford,  of  all  offences  committed  by  him 
against  the  statute  of  provisors  ;  and  grant  that  he  may  receive  and  publish 
apostolic  letters' concerning  the  priory  of  Wenlok.  By  p.s. 

Grant,  during  pleasure,  to  the  king's  knight  John  Scot,  controller  of  the 
king's  household,  of  the  custody  of  the  manor  and  lordship  of  Higham  in 
the  town  and  parish  of  Cheshun,  co.  Buckingham,  late  of  John  Veer,  earl 
of  Oxford,  from  the  death  of  the  latter,  with  courts  leet,  franchises,  lands, 
woods,  mills,  rents,  services  and  issues,  without  -  rendering  aiiything  to  the 
king.  By  p.s. 

Grant  for  life  to  the  king's  servant  John  Haward,  knight,  of  two  tene- 
ments which  John  Merston  lately  had  of  the  grant  of  Henry  YI.  in  London, 
one  in  the  parishes  and  lanes  of  St.  Martin  Orgar  and  St.  Michael  in 
€roked  Lane,  and  the  other  in  Croked  Lane  in  the  parish  of  St.  Margaret, 
Bruggestrete,  which  tenements  the  lord  of  Bafdolf  likewise  had  of  the  grant 
of  Henry  VI.  By  p.s. 


May  16. 

Westmixttter, 


May  28. 
Leicester. 


June  3. 
Westminster. 


May  28. 
Leioester. 

May  30. 
flofthanipton. 


Mbmbkanb  14. 

Grant  to  the  king's  servitor  Bichard  Hastynges,  esquire,  and  the  heirs 
male  of  his  body  of  the  manors  and  lordships  of  Overton  Quatermars, 
Godeby  and  Cunston,  co.  Leicester,  with  the  advowsons  of  the  churches 
there,  and  all  lands  and  possessions  Late  of  John  Beaumont,  esquire,  in  those 
places  and  in  Overton  Saucy,  Osgathorp,  Thringeston,  Worthington  and 
the  parish  of  Whitewyk,  co.  Leicester,  a  messuage  and  a  yard  of  land 
in  Hatheme,  co.  Leicester,  and  a  messuage  and  a  virgate  of  land  in  Iseley 
Walton,  CO.  Leicester,  late  of  the  same,  in  the  king's  hands  by  reason  of 
an  act  of  forfeiture  in  Parliament  at  Wegtminster,  4  November,  with  all 
issues  from  4  March,  1  Edward  IV.,  and  the  reversion  on  the  death  of 
Elizabeth,  late  the  wife  of  the  said  John,  of  the  manors  and  lordships  of 
Little  Boudon,  co.  Northampton,  and  Winterbume  Maureward,  co.  Dorset^ 
with  the  advowson  of  the  church  of  the  latter,  and  all  lands  and  possessions 
which  she  holds  in  those  places,  with  knights'  fees,  advowsons,  wards, 
marriages,  reliefs,  escheats,  courts  leet,  views  of  frank-pledge,  parks,  warrens, 
chuces,  fail's,  markets,  fisheries  and  other  rights.  By  p.s. 

Licence  for  the  merchants  of  the  realm  dwelling  in  the  parts  of  Holand, 
Seland,  Brabant  and  Flanders  and  other  friendly  parts  beyond  the  seas  to 
congregate  together  and  choose  certain  persons  as  their  governors,  for  the 
better  settling  of  disputes,  and  to  make  reasonable  ordinances  for  their 
governance.  By  p3. 

Grant  to  the  king's  servants  John  Fogge,  knight,  treasurer  of  the  house- 
hold, and  John  Scotte,  knight,  controller  of  the  same,  of  the  appointment 
of  the  master  of  the  house  or  hospital  of  St.  Anthony  within  the  city  of 
London  at  the  next  voidance*  By  p.s. 

Appointment  for  life  of  John  Par,  esquire,  as  sheriff  of  the  county  of 
Westmoreland.  By  K. 

Mandate  to  the  escheator  in  the  counties  of  Southampton  and  Wilts  for 
the  restitution  of  the  temporalities  of  the  monastery  of  St.  Mary,  Romsey, 
of  the  Benedictine  order,  to  Joan  Brygges,  whose  election  as  Mien  W., 


188 


CALENDAR  OF  PATENT  ROLLS. 


1462. 


May  28. 

Leicester. 


May  25. 
Leicester. 


May  27. 
LeiccKter. 


March  4. 
Westminster. 


May  27. 

Leicester. 


Membrane  14 — cofit. 

bishop  of  Winchester,  has  confirmed,  and  whose  fealty  the  king  has  ordered 
to  be  taken  by  Thomas  Forest,  clerk,  and  Maurice  Berkeley  of  Bettesthorn^ 
esquire. 

The  like  to  the  following  : — 

The  escheator  in  the  county  of  Gloucester. 
The  escheator  in  the  county  of  Dorset. 
Writ  de  intendendo  in  pursuance  to  the  tenants. 

Grant  for  life  to  Master  James  Fryse  of  a  messuage  called  '  le  grete  belle' 
by  le  Barbican  in  the  parish  of  St.  Botolph  in  Aldrisshegatestrete  in  the 
suburbs  of  London  with  14  other  messuages  annexed,  late  of  John  GK>umey, 
esquire,  and  Nicholas  Browne  of  the  grant  of  Henry  YI.,  to  hold  by 
homage  and  fealty  only.  By  p.s. 

Grant  for  life  to  the  king's  servant  John  Pilkyngton,  one  of  the  esquires 
of  the  body,  of  the  herbage  and  pannage  of  the  king's  park  of  Berkhamp- 
stede,  CO.  Hertford,  and  the  mbbits  in  the  park  and  within  the  warren  of 
the  lordship  or  honour  of  Berkhampstede,  from  Michaelmas  last,  rendering 
1005.  yearly  at  the  hands  of  the  receiver  of  the  lordship.  By  p.s. 

Grant,  during  pleasure,  to  Anthony  WoddevlUe,  lord  Scales,  and  Elizabeth 
his  wife,  daughter  and  heiress  of  Thomas,  late  lord  Scales,  of  the  custody  of 
the  manor  caJled  '  le  Syche'  and  other  lands,  rents,  services,  knights*  fees 
and  advowsons  in  South  Lynne,  late  of  Thomas  Tudenham,  knight,  deceased, 
in  the  king's  hands  by  reason  of  his  forfeiture,  not  exceeding  the  yearly 
value  of  20/.,  without  rendering  anything  to  the  king.  By  p.s. 

Appointment  of  Robert  Berne  wall,  knight,  for  his  good  service  to  the 
king's  father  in  his  last  journey  in  Ireland,  as  one  of  the  barons  of  Parlia- 
ment in  Ireland,  to  hold  in  tail  male,  by  the  name  of  lord  and  baron  of 
Trymletiston  and  one  of  the  king's  council  there,  with  fees  of  10/.  yearly 
for  life  from  the  fee  farm  of  Chapel izod  and  Salmon  Leap  at  the  hands  of 
the  prior  and  brethren  of  the  Hospital  of  St.  John  of  Jeru»ilem  in  Ireland. 

By  p.8. 

Appointment,  during  pleasure,  of  John  Trebon,  one  of  the  clerks  of  the 
king's  chapel,  to  the  custody  of  a  place  by  Bysshoppesgate  in  the  parish  of 
All  Hallows  in  the  Wall  in  the  city  of  London,  lately  belonging  to  the  earl 
of  Oxford,  a  rebel,  with  the  fees  and  profits.  By  p.s.  [939.] 


May  14. 

Westminster. 


June  16. 
Westminftter. 

May  14. 

Westminster. 

May  18. 

Westminster. 

May  18. 
Westminster. 

May  16. 

Weitminster. 


Mbmbranb  13. 

Appointment,  during  pleasure,  of  John  Gcrvays  as  controller  of  the  great 
and  petty  custom,  the  subsidy  of  wools,  hides  and  wool-fells,  and  the  subsidy 
of  the  Zs.  in  the  tun  and  12^.  in  the  pound  in  the  port  of  Jarncmouth  and 
poi-ts  and  places  adjacent,  provided  that  he  execute  the  office  in  person. 

By  bill  of  the  treasurer* 

The  like  of  the  following  in  the  ports  named  : — 
John  Wykes  in  the    port  of   Bishops  Lynn  and  ports  and   places 
adjacent.  By  bill  of  the  treasurer. 

Giles  Dacre  in  the  port  of  Poole  and  ports  and  places  adjacent. 

By  bill  of  the  treasurer. 

Daniel   Sheldon   in  the   port  of  Briggewater  and  ports  and  places 
adjacent.  By  bill  of  the  treasurer. 

John  Showte  in  the  ports  of  Plimmouth  and  Fowey  and  ports  and 
place.'}  adjacent.  By  bill  of  the  treasurer. 

John  Dunne  in  the  port  of  Bristol  and  ports  and  places  adjacent. 

By  bill  of  the  treasurer. 


2  EDWAKD  IV— Pakt  L  189 


1462.  Membrane  13— con^ 

Maj  15.  William  Hattecljrff  in  the  port  of  Ipswich  and  ports  and  places  adjacent. 

Wettminstcr.  By  bill  of  the  treasurer. 

Maj  13.         Appointment,  during  pleasure,  of  John  Beaufitz  as  receiver  of  the  king's 

Westminster,   lordship  and  forest  of  Fekenham,  co.  Worcester,  from  the  fir&t  daj  of  the 

reign,  receiving  the  accustomed  fees.  By  bill  of  the  treasurer. 

May  10.  Grant  to  the  king's  servant  John  Feryby,  one  of  the  yeomen  of  the  crown 
Westminster,  and  the  heirs  male  of  his  body,  for  his  good  service  to  the  king's  father  and 
the  king,  of  a  house  in  Kyngeston  on  Hull  in  the  parish  of  St.  Mary,  lately 
l)elonging  to  the  earl  of  Northumberland,  not  exceeding  the  value  of  40;. 
yearly,  in  the  king's  hands  by  authority  of  an  act  in  Parliament  at  West- 
minster, 4  November.  By  p.s. 

May  16.  Exemplification,  at  the  request  of  John  Johnson,  of  (1)  the  enrolment  of 
Westminster,  a  writing  of  John  Kirkeby,  citizen  and  clothier  of  London,  dated  10  Sep- 
tember, 38  Henry  VI.,  being  a  grant  to  Thomas  Croxton, '  gentilmao,' 
William  Panell  the  elder  of  Glemmesford,  co.  Suffolk,  ^  yoman,'  and  John 
Johnson,  citizen  and  butcher  of  London,  their  executors  and  assigns,  of  all 
his  goods ;  and  (2)  the  enrolment  of  a  memorandum  that  he  appeared  in 
Choncery  at  Westminster  on  that  day  and  acknowledged  the  above. 

April  27.  Grant  in  fee  simple  to  the  king's  kinsman  Bichard  Neville,  earl  of  War- 

Westminster,  wick,  of  the  manors  or  lordships  of  Topclyffe,  Ryddysdale,  Rybblesddale  and 
Langstrothe  Dale,  co.  York,  late  of  Henry,  late  earl  of  Northumberland,  the 
castle,  manor  and  lordship  of  Pendragon,  the  manor  and  lordship  of  Mailer- 
stang,  the  castles,  manors  and  lordships  of  Burgh  and  Appulby,  the  manor, 
lordship  and  park  of  Wyngfeld,  the  castle,  manor  and  lordship  of  Burgham, 
CO.  Westmoreland,  and  all  other  castles^  lordships,  manors,  lands,  rents  and, 
services  in  that  county  late  of  John  Clifford,  knisht,  late  lord  of  Clifford, 
the  manor  or  lordship  of  Newport  Panell,  co.  Buckingham,  late  of  James, 
enrl  of  Wiltshire,  and  the  manor  or  lordship  of  Streyuesham,  co.  Worcester, 
late  of  John  Bossell,  esquire,  in  the  king's  hmids  by  reason  of  an  act  of 
forfeiture  in  Parliament  at  Westminster,  4  November,  and  the  king's  manor, 
or  lordships  of  Morend,  co.  Northampton,  and  Atheeston  and  Fulbrokc,  co. 
Warwick,  with  knights'  fees,  advowsons,  courts  leet,  views  of  frank  pledge, 
parks,  warrens,  fairs,  markets,  hundreds  and  all  other  profits.  By  p.s. 

June  4.  General    pardon    to    Alice    Passelewe    alias    Passhelewe   of  London, 

Westminster.    *  wedowe.'  By  p.s. 

March  11.        Grant  to  Robert  Dauncy  of  the  office  of  feodary  of  all  castles,  manors, 
Westmintitcr.   lands,  knights'  fees  and  services  late  of  John,  late  earl  of  Oxford,  in  the 
counties  of  £ssex,  Suffolk,  Norfolk,  Cambridge,  Hertford  and  Middlesex,  so 
long  as  they  remain  in  the  king's  hands,  receiving  the  accustomed  fees. 

By  p.s. 

May  18.  Pardon  to  Roger  Garnet,   late  of   Wybbunbury,  co.  Chester,  *yoman,' 

Westminster,  for  all  treasons,  felonies,  trespasses  and  contempts  committed  by  him,  and  of 

any  consequent  outlawry.  By  p.s. 

June  8.  Licence  for  Katharine  Micliell,   nun  of  St.  Gary's,  Higham,  and   the 

Westminster,  convent  of  that  place  to  elect  a  prioress  in  the  place  of  Isabel  Wade, 
deceased. 


Membranes  \2andl\. 

May  8.  InsptximuM  and  confirmation  to  the  mayor,  bailiffs  imd  commonalty  of  the 

Westminster,   city  of  Winchester  of  the  following  : — 

1.  Letters  patent  dated  10  March,  17  Henry  VL,  inspecting  and  con- 
confirming  a  charter  dated  Westminster,  25  November,  3  Henry  IV. 
[^Charter  Roily  3  aa</4  Henry  IV.  No.  S^]  inspecting  and  con- 
firm-ng  a  charter  dated  Westminster,   6   May,    10  Edward    II L 


190  t»ALBNI)AR  OF  PATENT  BOLLSL 


1462.  Membranes  12  and  ll-^^canL 

l[Ckarter  Roll^  iO  Edward  II I^  No.  37,]  inspecting  and  confinnip^ 
a  cEarter  dated  Nottiugham,  5  Maj,  1  Edward  III.  inspecting  and 
confirming  the  following  : — 

(1.)  A  charter  of  Henry  If.  dated  at  Salisburj. 
-     (2.)  Another  charter  of  Kenrj  II.  dated  at  Salisbury. 

^3.)  A    charter  dated    Westminster,  20    Jane,    18  Edward  I. 
inspecting  and  confirming  a   charter  dated  Westminster,  4 
May,  11  Henry  III.  {Charter  RoUy  11  Henry  III,  p.  1,  m.  5,] 
2.  Letters  patent  dated  7  June,  20  Henry  YI.  being  a  grant  to  them  oi 
chattels  of  felons,  fugitives  and  outlaws,  waifs,  fines  and  amerce- 
ments, and  execution  of  writs  within  the  city  and  liberty,  and  licence 
for  them  to  choose  four  aldeimen  who  with  the  mayor  shall  be 
justices  of  the  peace,  and  of  oyer  and  terminer,  within  those  limits; 
provided  that  this  shall  not  be  to  the  prejudice  of  the  king's  uncle, 
Henry,  cardinal  of  England,  bishop  of  Winchester,  and  the  convent 
of  the  cathedral.  By  5  marks  paid  in  the  hanaper. 


Membrane  \\-^-<ont. 

May  18.  Pardon  to  John  Fletcher  of  Nottingham,  'fietcher,'  of  the  trespasses  and 

WeBtmioBter.  felony  of  which  he  was  convicted  before  Robert  Clifton,  knight,  Robert 
Strelley,  knight,  Richard  Willughby  and  Thomas  Nevill  of  Southleverton, 
justices  of  the  peace  in  the  county  of  Nottingham,  and  for  which  he  was 
condemned  to  be  hanged,  viz.,  that  on  Monday  after  the  Epiphany,  1^ 
Edward  IV.  he  lay  in  ambush  with  others  ^at  Arnall,  co.  Nottingham, 
to  kill  Richard  Webster  and  Agnes  his  wife  and  assaulted  and  robbed  them 
of  83^.  4c/. ;  on  information  that  he  was  in  no  way  guilty.  By  p.s. 

June  4.       .    Grant  for  life  to   Hugh  Amory    of   the  ofiice  of  usher   of  the  king's 
Westminster,   excliange  within  the  Tower  of  London,  receiving  fees  as  in  the  time  of 
Edtvard  III.  at  the  hands  of  the  keeper  of  the  exchange,  with  all  other 
accustomed  profits.  By  p.s. 

Vacated  by  surrender  and  cancelled^  because  the  king  granted  the  office 
to  Hugh  Brice  and  James  Bricefor  lifeby  otJier  letters  patenty  \b  February^ 
11  Edward  IV. 

June  23.         Grant  to  William  Hasty nges  of  Hasty nges,   knight,  of    full  power  to 
"VVestminster.   receive  persons  into  the  king's  grace  at  his  discretion.  By  K. 

June  15.         Appointment  for  life  of  the  king's  servant  John  Burghchier,  knight,  as 

Westminster,  steward  of  all  lordships,  manors  and  lands  of  the  king's  honour  and  lordship 

of  Richemound  in  the  county  of  Norfolk,  receiving  10/.  yearly  for  his  fee 

from  the  issues  of  the  same,^  with  all  accustomed  profits.  By  p,8. 

July  3.  Grant  for  life  to  the  king's  knight  John  Asteley,  in  recompense  of  his 

Westminster,  great  losses  sustained  in  the  king's  service  and  for  the  sustentation  of  the 
order  of  the  Garter,  of  an  annuity  of  40/.  from  the  issues  of  the  manor  of 
Heightisberj.  co.  Wilts,  lately  belonging  to  Robert  Molyns,  late  lord 
Hungerford,  in  the  king's  hands  by  reason  of  an  act  of  attaint  in  Parliament 
at  Westminster,  4  November,  1  Edward  IV.  ^vith  power  of  distraint  if 
payment  be  deferred  twenty  days.  By  p.s.  f 986.] 

Sept.  11.  Grant  to  Peter  Ardern,  knight,  one  of  the  justices  of  the  Bench,  for  the 
Westminster,  better  maintenance  of  his  estate,  of  110  marks  yearly  at  the  hands  of  the 
keeper  of  the  hanaper  or  the  customers  in  the  ports  of  London,  Bristol 
and  Kyngeston  on  Hull,  according  to  the  form  of  an  act  in  Parliament  at 
Westminster,  18  Henry  VI.  and  IO65.  11;^^.  and  the  sixth  part  of  ^c?. 
yearly  at  Christmas  for  a  furred  robe  and  66*.  6rf.  yearly  at  Whitsuntide 
for  a  lined  robe,  at  the  hands  of  the  same. 


2  EDWARD  lY.— Part  L  14H 


1462.  Membrane  10. 

June  11.        Grant  for  life  to  the  \dng*h  servitor  John  Browne,  rider  6£  the  forest  of 
WestmioBier.  Morff,  co.  Salop,  of  4d.  daily  from  the  issues  of  tlte  king's  mills  of  Pendle* 
ston,  CO.  Salop,  at  the  hands  of  the  bailiffs  of  Bruggenorth.     By  p.s.  [977.] 
. ,         Mandate  in  pursuance  to  the  said  bailiffs. 

Ju3)e  11,     •    Grant  for  life  to  Henry  Torkyngton  of  two  messaageeon  the  hitbe-ealled 

Wettminster.   <  le  Tourewharf '  by  the  city  uf  London,  whereof  one  end  abuts  on  the  river 

Thames  to  the  south,  a  parcel  of  land  on  the  said  '  Tourewhflrf,'  40  feet 

>  t     long  by  20  feet  broad,  on  which  Robert  Cony, '  joynor,'  deceased,  built  a  now 

^mimsion,  a  ehsap  opposite  the  said  parcel  of  land  between  the  ditch  of  the 

Tower  and  the  highway  on  the  wharf  with   a  newly   built  mansion,   a 

messuage  on  the  said  wharf  in  which  John  Elyngham,  deceased,  lately 

dwelt,  with  a  garden  adjacent,  LOO  feet  broad  from  the  great  west  entranqe 

and  the  office  of  the  keeper  of  the  king's  tents  (tentariarum)  to  the  eastern 

end  of  the  garden  and  3  standard  paces  {pas»us  (usise)  long,  and  all  other 

messuages  in  the  king's  hands  on  the  said  wharf  with  gardens  and  vacant 

plaoes  from  the  door  of  the  Tower  by  the  hospital  of  §t.  Katharine  to  the 

door  of  the  Tower  on  the  south  called  *  le  postern,'  to  the  value  of  10  marks 

yearly,  answering  at  the  Exchequer  ibr  any  surplus.  By  p.8» 

June  IS.  Declaration  to  all  admirals  and  others  that  Robert  de  Lynton,  bachelor 
Westminster,  of  either  law,  who  was  born  at  the  town  of  Jedworth  on  the  marches  of 
Scotland  which  at  that  time  was  part  of  the  realm  of  England,  and  who 
has  since  his  youth  remained  in  England  and  beyond  seas  at  his  studies,  is 
a  true-bom  subject  of  the  king,  notwithstanding  that  the  said  town  has  since 
been  occupied  by  the  Scots. 

May  30.  Grant  for  life  to  Ralph,  lord  of  Sudeley,  of  4  bucks  in  summer  and  6  doea 

NoithamptoD.  iu  winter  within  the  king's  park  of  Wodestoke.  By  K. 

Jane  20.         Mandate  to  all  bailiffs  and  others  to  permit  David  Lyndesaye,  a  native  of 

Westminster.  Dunde  in  Scotland,  staying  at  Redyng  within  the  realm  of  England,  wha 

has  taken  an  oath  of  fealty,  to  inhabit  the  realm  peaceably  for  his  life  and 

enjoy  his  goods.  By  p.s.. 

May  30.         General  pardon  to  William  Okyngden  of  the  parish  of  Slaugham,  co. 
Leicester.      Sussex,  *  yoman.*  By  K* 

May  6.  Gi  ant  in  fee  simple  to  John  Fogge,  knight,  treasurer  of  the  king's  house- 

Westminster,  hold,  of  the  manor  of  Hothfeld,  co.  Kent,  late  of  Thomas,  late  lord  of  Roos, 
in  the  king's  hands  by  his  forfeiture,  with  knights'  fees,  advowsone,  wards, 
marriages,  reliefs,  escheats,  courts  leet,  views  of  frank  pledge,  parks,  fairs, 
markets,  fisheries  and  all  other  profits.  By  p.s. 

^larch  20.  Grant  to  Richard  the  abbot,  and  the  convent  of  Peterborough,  of  goods 
Westminster,  of  felons,  fugitives  and  outlaws  within  their  hundreds  of  Nassoburgh,  Poke- 
broke,  Hokeslowe  and  Navesford,  co.  ISforthampton,  and  all  other  their 
hundreds,  manors,  and  possessions  in  the  counties  of  Northampton, 
Huntingdon,  Lincoln,  Leicester,  Nottingham  and  Rutland,  deodands,  wreck 
of  sea,  treasuie  trove,  evasions  and  escapes,  fines,  forfeitures  and  amerce- 
ments, and  all  other  liberties  granted  to  them  by  former  kings.  They  shall 
also  have  the  delivery  of  the  king's  gaol  of  Peterborough,  provided  that 
one  of  the  justices  of  the  peace  in  the  county  of  Northampton  or  a  person 
skilled  iu  law  be  one  of  the  commissioners  appointed  by  them. 

By  p.s.  [889.] 

July  28.  John  Chadworth,    clerk,  staying   beyond  seas,  has  letters  nominating 

Westminster.  Richard  Ewen,  clerk,  and  William  Chadworth  his  attorneys  for  one  year. 

Membrane  9. 

July  4.  Appointment,  during  pleasure,  of  John  Harper  ond  William  Weldon  as 

Westminster,  auditors  of  the  accounts  of  all  chamberlain?,  sheriffs,  escheators,  bailiffs  and 


192-  CALENDAR  OF  PATENT  ROLLS. 


1462.  Membrane  9 — cont, 

other  ministers  of  the  kiag  in  South  and  North  Wales  and  the  counties  of 
Chester  and  Fijntes,  receiving  sach  fees  as  John  Gerjn  and  John  Somer 
lately  had.  By  bill  of  the  treasurer. 

July  5.  Licence,  for  40«.  paid  in  the  hanapcr,  for  Henry  de  la  Pomeray,  esquire, 

Westminster,  to  grant  to  Seyntdere  de  la  Pomeray  and  Katharine  his  wife,  and  his 
heirs  in  fee  simple  his  manor  of  "Stokelegh  Pomeray,  co.  Devon,  held 
in  chief. 

July  7.  General  pardon  to  Matilda  Eton  of  Hafves,  co.  (Houcester,  ^  gentilwomau,* 

Westminster,  of  all  offences  committed  by  her  before  29  June,  and  of  her  waiver  for  the 
same. 

June  24.         Jnspeximui  and  confirmation  to  the  prior  and  provincial  chapter  of  the 

Westminster,  order  of  Friars  Preachers  in  the  realm  of  letters  patent  dated  22  February, 

8  Eichard  II.  inspecting  and  confirming  letters  patent  dated  3  April,  51 

Edward  III.  being  a  grant  to  them  of  20/.  yearly  at  the  Exchequer  that  they 

may  celebrate  the  anniversary  of  queen  Philippa. 

For  20«.  paid  in  the  hanaper. 

•  March  16.  Grant  in  frank  almoin  to  Thomas  Buxale,  the  master,  and  the  fellows  of 
Westminster,  the  king's  college  of  Fodrynghey  of  a  tun  of  red  wine  of  Gascony  yearly  in 
the  port  of  London  about  Christmas  for  the  celebration  of  daily  mass,  for 
ministering  the  holy  sncrtvment  at  any  time  and  for  their  sustenance,  and  of 
4  acres  of  arable  land,  a  lime  kiln  ('  kelle')  and  a  house  adjacent  within  the 
town  of  Wodeneweton.  By  p.s.  [887.] 

June  28.         Grant  to  l^obert  Constable,  knight,  and  the  heirs  male  of  his  body,  of  all 

Weiktminster.  lands,  rents  and  services  late  of  Thomas,  late  lord  Roos,  in  the  parish  of 

Goxhill,  CO.  Lincoln,  not  exceeding  the  value  of  10/.  yearly,  forfeited  because 

of  the  appearance  of  the  latter  in  the  battles  against  the  king  near  Shirbourne, 

CO.  York.  By  p.s. 

July  10.         Pardon  to  the  king's  servitor  Nicholas  Gaynesford,  esquire,  late  sheriff  of 

l^orthampton.  Surrey  and  Sussex,  of  all  offences,  trespasses,  forfeitures,  fines,  reliefs,  debts 

and  accounts.  By  p.s. 

July  11.  Grant  to  Roger  Vaghan,  esquire,  and  the  heirs  male  of  his  body  of  the 
^Northampton,  manor  of  Bosennef  Hele  alias  Bosenneshele  in  the  parish  of  Dedishome  and 
the  manor  of  Parehame,  co.  Devon,  and  all  lands,  rents  and  services  in  those 
places  late  of  Baldwin  Fulford,  knight,  aud  the  manor  of  Godney  in  the  parish 
of  Canynton,  the  manor  of  Otertowne  and  the  manor  of  Wendowne  in  the 
parish  of  Durley,  co.  Somerset,  the  manor  of  Kyngestowne,  co  Dorset,  and 
all  lands,  rents  and  services  in  those  places  late  of  Alexander  Hody,  knight, 
in  the  king's  hands  by  reason  of  their  forfeitures  and  an  act  in  Parliament 
at  Westminster,  4  November,  with  knight's  fees,  advowsons,  courts  leet, 
views  of  frank  pledge,  warrens,  fairs,  markets  and  all  other  profits,  with  all 
issues  from  4  November,  to  the  value  of  119/.  13*.  4d,  yearly,  answering  at 
the  Exchequer  for  the  surplus.  By  p.s. 

July  12.  Grant  in  fee  simple  to  the  king's  servant  John  Wenlok,  knight,  lord  of 

Northampton.  Wenlok,  of  all  lordships,  manors,  lands,  rents  and  services  with  knight's  fees 
and  advowsons  late  of  John  Fortescue,  knight,  in  the  counties  of  Middlesex 
and  Hertford  and  elsewhere  within  Ihe  realm  and  the  reversion  of  the  manor 
of  Eburton,  co.  Gloucester,  on  the  death  of  Joeosa  Grevill  alias  Beauchampe, 
widow,  belonging  to  the  king  by  reason  of  the  forfeiture  of  the  said  John 
Fortescue.  By  K. 

Vacated  by  surrender  and  cancelled ^  because  on  3  February,  8 
Edward  IV,  the  king  by  writ  of  privy  seal  ordered  Robert y  bishop  of 
Bath  and  Wells,  chancellor,  and  Robert  Kirkeham,  keeper  of  the  rolls  of 
Chancery,  to  receive  the  same  from  the  said  John,  by  John  Holme, 

July  1 1 .  Restitution  of  the  temporalities  of  the  priory  of  Wenlok,  in  the  diocese  of 

l^orthamptoD.  Hereford,  to  Dan  Roger  Wenlok,  whom  John  Chambellain,  prior  of  Ste. 


2  EDWARD  IV.— Part  L  193 


1462*  Menibratie  9— con^. 

Marie,  Charity  sar  Loire,  of  the  Claniac  order,  in  the  diocese  of  Anxerre 
{Autisnodoren')f  has  appointed  prior  in  the  place  of  Roger  Barrej,  deceased, 
and  whose  fealty  John,  abbot  of  Lilleshill,  has  taken.  By  p.s. 

July  13.         Pardon  to  Thomas  Darell  late  of  London,  alias  Thomas  Dorell  late  of 

Noithompton.  Plecy,  gentleman,  of  all  felonies  and  trespasses  committed  by  him  before 

6  July,  and  of  any  consequent  outlawry.  By  p.s. 

Mbmbranr  8. 

July  5.  Revocation  of  protection    with  clause  volumus^  for  one  year,  granted 

Westminster.  18  December  by  letters  patent  to  Henry  Silver  of  London,  '  merbhaunt,' 
going  on  the  king's  service  in  the  company  of  the  king's  kinsman  Richard, 
earl  of  Warwick,  great  chamberlain  of  England,  captain  of  the  town  and 
castle  of  Calais,  on  the  safe  custody  and  victualling  of  the  same  and  the 
marches  there ;  because  he  delays  in  London,  as  George  Ireland  and  John 
Lok,  sheriffs,  have  certified. 

July  15.         Grant  for  life  to  John  Maners,  esquire,  of  the  office  of  MaSwanherd' 

Westminster,  within  the  counties  of  Norfolk  and  Suffolk,  with  fees  as  in  the  times  of 

Edward  III.  and  Richard  II,  By  p.s. 

July  12.         The  like  to  John  Broune  of  Bristol,  for  his  good  service  to  the  king  and 

Westminster,  his  father,  of  the  office  of   customer  in  the  ports  of  Corke,  Yoghle  and 

Kensale  in  Ireland  and  all  ports,  creeks  and  places  belonging  to  them,  with 

the  accustomed  fees.  By  p.s. 

June  1.  Appointment  of  the  king's  kinsman  Henry,  earl  of  Essex,  and  the  king's 

Westminster,  aunt  Isabel,  countess  of  Essex,  his  consort,  and  the  heirs  of  the  body  of  the 
latter,  to  the  custody  of  the  lordships  -or  |manors  of  vHongham  Castle, 
Hengham  Sibille,  Greyes,  Gelham  cUia$  Yeldeham,  Colne,  Croppyng,  Canfeld 
Magna,  Staiistede  Mountefichette,  Bentley,  Bemond  alias  Beaumont, 
Duddynghurst,  Fyngrith  and  Blakmore,  co.  Essex,  and  Hengston,  co. 
Cambridge,  late  of  John,  late  earl  of  Oxford,  in  the  king's  hands  by  his 
forfeiture,  with  advowsons,  knights'  fees,  wards,  marriages,  courts  leet, 
liberties,  escheats,  parks,  warrens,  chaces,  fairs,  markets,  hundreds  and  all 
other  profits,  so  long  as  they  remain  in  the  king's  hands.  By  p.B. 

July  18.         Presentation  of  John  Walter  to  the  parish  church  of  Laneham,  in  the 
Westminster,  diocese  of  Norwich,  void  by  the  resignation  of  George  Vene.  By  K. 

July  22.  Grant  to  the  king's  kinsmen  George,  bishop  of  Exeter,  and  John,  earl  of 

Westminster.  Worcester,  of  all  goods  and  debts  lately  belonging  to  Henry,  late  duke  of 
Exeter,  husband  of  the  king's  sister  Anne,  for  her  use.      {^Fcedera.] 

ByK, 

July  12.  Grant  to  John  Fogge,  knight,  treasurer  of  the  king's  household,  and  his 
Northampton,  heirs  and  assigns  ot  the  custody  of  the  manors  of  Flete  alias  Ratburgh, 
CO.  Kent,  Cawmpes,  co.  Cambridge,  and  Laugdon  and  Crustwich,  co.  Essex, 
late  of  John  de  Voer,  late  t»arl  of  Oxford,  in  the  king's  hands  by  his 
forfeiture,  with  knights'  fees,  advowsons,  wards,  marriages,  reliefe,  escheats, 
courts  leet,  views  of  frank  pledge,  parks,  fairs,  markets,  fisheries  and  all 
other  profits,  from  the  death  of  the  said  earl  so  long  as  they  remain  in  the 
king's  hands.  By  K« 

July  12.  Grant  for  life  to  Edmund  Molyneux,  esquire,  of  the  16/.  16*.  lOW. 

Northampton,  yearly  which  the  abbot  and  monks  of  Hayles  rendet  at  the  Exchequer  for 
the  fee  farm  of  Pynnokshire.  By  K. 

Mandate  in  pursuance  to  the  said  abbot  and  monks. 

Sept.  6.  Appointment,  until  B  March,  of  Richard  Jeny,  serrant  of  the  ofilce  of 

Wettminftcr.   the  buyer  of  the  king's  household,  to  buy  oxen,  sheep,  calves  and  sea  and 

fresh  water  fish  and  other  necessaries  for  that  office,  and  to  find  carriage  for 

the  same^  By  bill  of  the  treaaurer  of  the  houseiiold. 

»    86914,  31 


194  CALENDAR  OF  PATENT  ROLLS. 


1462.  Membrane  S^^co7it, 

The  like  of  Bobert  Goode,  yeoman  buyer  of  the  household. 

Bj  bill  of  the  treasurer  of  the  household. 

Sept.  11.  General  pardon  to  Richard  Palmer,  *gentilman,*  Thomas  Grace,  *habijr- 

Westminster.  dassher,'  Simon  Williamson,  *  boucher,'  Robert  Alove,  *  mason,'  Thomas 
Voyche,*husboiidman,*  John  BaiUy,*hostiler,'  Thomas  Wright,* husbondman,' 
Stephen  Axstode,  *  husbundeman,'  John  Joye,  *  husbondman,' Thorn  as  Fynne, 
*  husbundeman,'  James  Grubbe,  ^  husbondman/  William  Kensale,  *  husbunde- 
man,'  John  Donet,  '  ehipman,'  Richard  Barowe,  '  husbundeman,'  William 
Hemes, '  dier,'  and  William  Couper  alias  Euston, '  husbundeman,'  all  of 
Dover.  By  p.s. 

May  1.  Commission  to  Thomas,  archbishop  of  Canterbury,  to  be  in  the  king's 

WestminBter.  place  at  Westminster  on  6  May  and  to  dissolve  the  Parliament  begun  on 
4  November,  as  the  king  will  be  unable  to  be  present  in  person. 

Byp.s.  [919.] 

Membrane  7. 

June  28.        Grant  for  life  to  John  Parker  of  Nethwode,  one  of  the  yeomen  of  the 

Westminster,  crown,  for  his  good  service  to  the  king's  father  and  the  king,  of  6d.  daily 

for  his  wages  fi*om  the  farm  and  issues  of  the  town  of  Hereford  from 

Michaelmas  last.  By  p.s. 

June  30.         Mandate  in  pursuance  to  the  mayor,  ^customers,  receivers,  bailifFs  or  other 

Westminster,  occupiers  of  the  town. 

July  2.  Signification  to  J.  bishop  of  Rochester  of  the  royal  absent  to  the  election 

Westminster,  of  Margaret  Boteler,  nun  of  St.  Mary's,  Higham,  of  the  Benedictine  order,  as 
prioress  of  that  place. 

July  2.  Revocation   of  protection  with  clause  volumus^  for    one  year,   lately 

Westminster,  granted  by  letters  patent  to  Philip  Neele  late  of  London,  *  gentilman,'  alias 
*pulter'  alias  *yoman,*  going  on  the  king's  service  in  the  company  of 
John  Wode,  esquire,  victualler  of  the  town  and  castle  of  Calais,  for  the 
safe-custody  and  victualling  of  the  same  and  the  marches  there  in  the  parts 
of  Picardy ;  because  he  delays  at  Rumford  and  elsewhere  in  the  county  of 
Essex,  as  appears  by  certificate  of  the  sheriff. 

July  12.  Exemption  for  life  of  John  Chiksand  of  Huntyngdon, '  yoman/  on  account 

Westminster,  of  his  age  and  infirmity,  from  being  put  on  assizes,  juries,  attaints,  recog- 
nieances  or  inquisitions,  and  from  being  made  trier  of  the  same,  mayor, 
escheator,  sheriff*,  coroner,  bailiff,  constable,  controller,  collector,  assessor, 
taxer  or  surveyor  of  tenths,  fifteenths  or  other  subsidy,  arrayer  or  trier  of 
men  at  arms,  hobelers  or  archers,  or  other  officer  or  minister  of  the  king 
against  his  will.  By  K. 

June  20.  Grant  for  life  to  John  Amy  as,  chaplain,  that  he  shall  be  the  priest  or 
Westminster,  chaplain  to  celebrate  divine  service  within  the  king's  manor  of  Eltham,  co. 
Kent,  and  to  pray  for  the  king  and  his  progenitors,  receiving  10  marks 
yearly  from  4  March  last  for  his  stipend  from  the  issues  of  the  manor  in 
the  same  manner  as  John  Sweteman  of  Pencriche,  chaplain  in  the  time  of 
Edward  IIL  with  a  house  and  garden  in  the  manor  where  John  Hanxton, 
late  priest,  dwelt.  By  p.s. 

May  18.  Exemplification,  at  the  request  of  John  Aleyn  late  of  London,  mercer, 

Westminster,  of  letters  patent,  which  have  been  lost,  dated  24  October,  39  Henry  VI., 
being  a  panlon  to  him  of  outlawry. 

July  28.  Ratification  of  the  estate  which  Richard  ap  Tudur  ap  Jerum  has  as 

Westminster,  parson  of  the  parish  church  of  Llanrayudur  in  Kynmerch,  in  the  diocese  of 
Bangor. 

July  30.  Licence,  for  &ve  years,  for  Galias  de  Lune,  William  Marynere  and  Simon 

Westminster.  Spert  to  mine  within  the  counties  of  Somerset  and  Gloucester  for  lead,  tin 


2  EDWARD  IV.— Part  I.  195 


1462.  Membrane  7 — cont. 

or  copper  ore  in  which  silver  or  gold  may  be  had,  yielding  to  the  king 
every  eighth  *  boUe '  of  ore,  and  to  make  mills  and  take  workmen  as  they 
require.     English.  Bj  p.s.  [1015.J 

July  30.  Appointment,  during  pleasure,  of  the  king's  kinsman  William,  earl  of 

Westminster.   Kent,  as  admiral  of  England.     [Iwdera.] 

Aug.  18.         Grant,  during   pleasure,  to  John  Weulok  of  Wenlok,   knight,  of  the 

Wdstminster.   custody  of  all  manors,  lands  and  possessions  within  the  counties  of  Norfolk 

and  Suffolk  and  elsewhere  within  the  realm  late  of  Thomas  Tudenham, 

knight,  and  in  the  king's  hands  by  his  forfeiture,  excepting  the  manors  of 

Eriswell  and  Elvedeu,  co.  Suffolk,  with  advowsons  and  all  other  profits. 


Membrane  6. 

May  3.  Grant  to  the  king's  servant,  Thomas  Blount,  esquire,  and  the  heirs  male 

Westminster,  of  his  body,  for  his  good  service  to  the  king  and  his  father  Richard,  duke 
of  York,  of  the  manor  of  Melton  Roos  and  all  lands,  rents  and  services  in 
Melton,  Elsham,  Wrawby,  Glaunford  Brigg,  Wotton  and  Burneham,  co, 
Lincoln,  late  of  Thomas  Boos,  lord  of  Roos,  knight,  and  all  lands,  rents 
and  services  in  Lyndewode,  co.  Lincoln,  called '  Bayhous  Fee '  late  of  William, 
late  viscount  Beaumont,  in  the  king's  hands  by  reason  of  their  forfeitures, 
with  warrens,  franchises,  views  of  frank  pledge  and  other  libeities,  to  the 
value  of  40  marks  yearly.  By  p.s. 

May  1.  Grant  in  fee  simple  to  the  king's  servitor  Ralph  Hast^nges,  esquire  of 

Westminster,  the  body,  of  the  manor  or  lordship  of  Great  Herowdon  with  the  hamlets  of 
Little  Herowdon,  Orlynbere  and  Isham,  the  manor  of  Wilby,  the  manor 
and  lordship  of  Horpoll  and  all  lands  and  possessions  in  Barton,  Dodyngton, 
Wenlyngburgh  and  Norhampton,  co.  Northampton,  the  manors  and  lord- 
ships of  Lathebury  and  Stontonbarry  and  all  lands  and  possessions  in 
Stukeley,  Chelmescote  and  Cublyngton,  co.  Buckingham,  with  the  advowson 
of  the  church  of  Cublyngton,  the  manors  and  lordships  of  Chevyngton  and 
Carletdn,  co.  Bedford,  and  all  lands  and  possessions  in  Clopham  and  Ocley, 
CO.  Bedford,  Shelford,  Lode,  Bottesham,  Swhapham,  Stokequy  and  New- 
market, CO.  Cambridge,  and  Marcham,  co.  Berks,  and  the  manors  and 
lordships  of  Napton,  co.  Warwick,  and  Shankton,  co.  Leicester,  late  of 
William  Yaux,  knight,  in  the  king's  hands  by  reason  of  an  act  of  forfeiture 
in  Parliament  at  Westminster,  4  November,  with  knights'  fees,  advowsons, 
wards,  marriages,  reliefs,  escheats,  courts  leet,  views  of  ftank -pledge,  parks, 
woods,  warrens,  chaces,  fairs,  markets,  fisheries  aad  all  other  profits,  with  all 
issues  from  4  March,  1  Edward  IV.  By  p.s. 

May  6.  Grant  to  the  king's  kinsman  John  Neville,  knight,  lord  Montague,  and 

Westminster,  the  heirs  male  of  his  body  of  the  manors  of  Wyrmyngey  and  Matsall,  co. 
Norfolk,  Holoughton,  co  Leicester,  and  Shelford,  Stokebardolf  and  Beddyng, 
CO.  Nottingham,  the  manor  or  lordship  of  Hellowe,  co.  Lincoln,  and  the 
manors  of  Wylbay  and  Stroweteby,  with  advowsons,  knight's  fees,  courts, 
markets,  fairs,  leets,  views  of  frank  pledge  and  other  commodities,  in  the 
king's  hands  by  reason  of  an  act  in  Parliament  at  Westminster,  4  March 
{sic)y  1  Edward  IV.,  and  all  issues  of  the  same  from  4  March,  1  Edward  IV. 

By  p.s. 

May  12.  Whereas  Henry  IV.  in  the  6th  year  of  his  reign  by  mainprise  of  Ralph 
Westminster.  Barton  and  Thomas  Counstable  granted  to  Thomas  Sy  the  custody  of  ^a 
messuage  in  Leicester  late  of  John  Hodynges  of  Leicester,  in  his  hands  for 
964/.  8^.  O^d,  required  from  Thomas  Botiller  and  the  said  John  from  the 
issues  of  the  customs  in  the  port  of  Kyngeston  on  Hull,  so  long  as  it 
remained  in  his  hands,  rendering  6s.  Sd.  yearly  at  the  Exchequer,  and  the 
said  Thomas  Sy  has  died,  the  king  now  grants  the  same  as  above  to  Richard 

N  2 


196  CALENDAR  OF  PATENT  ROLLS. 


1462.  Membrane  6 — conU 

Chambre  from  Christmas  last  by  mainprise  of  Richard  Preston  of  Querndony 
CO.  Leicester,  gentleman,  and  Bartholomew  Kendale  of  London,  gentleman, 
provided  that  he  supports  all  charges  and  repairs.  By  p.s. 

July  1.  •  Whereas  Henry  Percy  by  letters  patent,  which  Edward  I.  confirmed  in 
Westminster,  the  31st  year  of  his  reign,  granted  to  John  de  Henton,  the  prior,  and  the 
convent  of  Sixhill  all  lands,  rents  and  services  of  his  fee  in  Ludford,  co« 
Lincoln,  quit  of  all  secular  exaction  and  demand,  saving  .8  marks  yearly 
from  the  above  called  '  Percyfee,*  and  it  appeared  by  an  inquisition  taken 
at  Horneca*<tre,  co.  Lincoln,  29  November,  10  Henry  IV.  before  Henry 
Morley,  escheator  in  the  county,  that  Henry  Percy,  then  earl  of  Northum- 
berland, was  seised  in  his  demesne  as  of  fee  of  the  said  rent,  and  it  was 
taken  into  the  kind's  hands  by  reason  of  his  forfeiture,  the  king  now  releases 
the  said  rent  to  Richard  Wakefeld,  the  prior,  and  the  convent,  as  all  tlie 
lands  and  possessions  of  the  priory  for  the  sustenance  of  28  persons  and  the 
support  of  other  burdens  do  not  exceed  the  value  of  40/.  yearly.         By  p.s. 

July  13.  Grant  for  life  to  William  Hattcclyf,  the  king's  physician,  from  Michael- 

Westminster,  mas  last  of  26Z.   13*.  4<f.  yearly  from  the  issues  of  the  king's  exchange 
within  the  town  of  Calais  and  his  exchange  within  the  realm.  By  p.s. 


Membrane  5. 

Aug.  4.  The  like  to  John  Nyghtingale  of  the  herbage  and  pannage  in  the  king's 

Westminster,  park  of  Cliff  within  his  forest  of  Rokyngham  from  1  October,  1  Edward 

IV.,  with  all  profits  of  the  same.  By  p.s. 

Aug.  9.  The  like  to  Anne,  ducbess  of  Buckingham,  of  an  inn  or  tenement  without 

Canterbury.    Temple  Bar,  London,  co.  Middlesex,  called  *  le  lord  Moleyns  In,'  with  all 

houses,  buildings,  gardens  and  other  appurtenances.  By  K. 

Aug.  2.  The  like  to  the  king's  kinsman  Thomas,  earl  Desmond,  for  his  good 

Westminster,  service  to  the  king  and  the  king's  father,  of  the  office  of  steward  of  Connagh 
and  all  other  lordships  belonging  to  the  king's  earldom  of  March  in  Ireland, 
with  wages  of  100  marks  yearly  from  the  revenues  of  the  liberty  of  Meatii. 

By  p.s. 
Mandate  in  pursuance  to  the  treasurer  of  the  liberty  of  Meath. 

Aug.  2.  Grant  for  life  to  the  said  earl  Desmond  of  the  ofiice  of  the  constableship 

Westminster,  of  the  king's  castle  of  Lymryk  in  Ireland,  with  such   fees  as  Nicholas 

Arthure  of  that  city  lately  had  in  the  same  office,  from  the  fee  farm  of  the 

city.  By  p.s. 

Mandate  in  pursuance  to  the  mayor  and  bailiffs  of  the  city. 

July  12.         Grant  to  Henry  Wrottesley  and  the  heirs  male  of  his  body  of  all  manors, 

Northampton,  lands,  rents,  services,  advowsons  and  knight's  fees  late  of  Thomas  Lytley, 

in  the  king's  hands  by  his  forfeiture  by  reason  of  an  act  in  Parliament  at 

Westminster,  4  November,  not  exceeding  the  yearly  value  of  10/.      By  p.s. 

Aug.  3.  Revocation,  with  the  assent  of  the  council  in  Parliament  at  Westminster, 

Westminster.  4  November,  1  Edward  IV.  of  the  endowments  granted  by  Henry  VI.  to 
Eton  College  in  Parliament  at  Bury  St.  Edmunds,  25  Henry  VI. ;  and 
grant  of  the  alien  priory  of  Derhurst,  in  the  diocese  of  Worcester,  to  William 
Bukland,  monk  of  St.  Peter's,  Westminster,  from  the  Annunciation  last, 
with  all  cells,  manors,  lands,  knights'  fees,  advowsons,  tithes,  liberties, 
franchises,  courts  leet,  views  of  frank  pledge  and  other  appurtenances,  so 
that  it  be  fully  restored  to  the  abbot  and  convent  of  St.  Denis  in  France,  of 
the  Benedictine  order,  according  to  the  original  foundation  and  intention 
of  Edward  the  Confessor  and  WiDiam  the  Conqueror ;  provided  that  they 
support  monks,  secular  chaplains  and  other  ministers,  Englishmen,  to  the 
number  of  such  foundation  and  pay  no  ancient  pension  or  impost  to  the 


2  EDWARt)  iV.— Pakt  t.  19? 


1462.  Membrane  5--^cont, 

chief  house  be^'ond  seas  during  any  war  with  France,  Grant  also  that 
the  prior  and  convent  shall  be  discharged  of  all  matters  relating  to  the  first 
foundation.  By  p.s. 

Aug.  15.         Grant  for  life  to  William  Deane  of  the  county  of  Northumberland  of  the 

Wt-tmiu»iter.  office  of  a  forester  of  the  park  of  Hull  by  Alnewyk,  co.  Northumberland, 

lately  held  by  Robert  Maxon,  a  rebel,  receiving  wages  of  2d.  daily  at  the 

hands  of  the  receiver  of  the  lordship  of  Alnewyk.  By  p.s. 

Aug.  12.  Grant  to  the  king's  brother  Richard,  duke  of  Gloucester,  admiral  of  the 
VVc.^iuiinster.  sea,  and  the  heirs  of  his  body,  of  the  castle  of  Gloucester,  the  fee  farm 
of  the  town  of  Gloucester,  the  ol&ce  of  constable  of  the  castle  of  Corff,  co. 
Dorset,  the  manor  or  lordship  of  Kyngeston  Lacy,  co.  Dorset,  parcel  of  the 
duchy  of  Lancaster^  the  castle,  county,  honour  and  lordship  of  Richemoud 
which  Edmund,  late  earl  of  Richemond,  held  of  the  grant  of  Henry  VI.,  a 
moiety  of  the^town  of  Chepyng  Norton,  co.  Oxford,  the  manors  of  Saxton, 
Great  Campes,  Great  Abiton  and  8waf ham,  co.  Cambridge,  Poldu,  Ethorn, 
Penhall,  Tremodret,  Trevelyn,  Argalles,  Trewynyan  and  Droungolou,  co. 
Cornwall,  Overhall  and  Netherhall  in  Lavenham,  Aldham,  Preston,  Mend- 
ham  and  Cokefeld  called  '  Erleshall,'  co.  Suffolk,  the  castles  and  manors  of 
Hengham  and  Little  Gelham,  the  manors  of  Vaux,  Bumstede  called 
^  Countesmedwe '  in  Bumstede  Helion,  Great  Canfeld,  Stanstede  Monfichet, 
Steeple  Bumstede  called  *  Gcbons,'  Earl's  Colne,  Creppyng,  Great  Bent- 
legh,  Cruatwiche,  Fyngryth,  Dodynghurst,  Preyers,  Boureliall  in  Hjpngham, 
Creyes,  Estonhall,  Tileby,  Beamound  and  Dounham  aud  the  ofilce  of  the 
king's  forest,  co.  Essex,  the  manors  of  Kensyngton  and  Wateshurst,  co. 
Middlesex,  Calverton,  co.  Bedford,  Milton  and  Paston^  co.  Northampton, 
Marketoverton,  co.  Rutland,  and  Elete  and  Batelesmere,  co.  Kent,  late  of 
John  de  Veer,  late  earl  of  Oxford,  in  the  king's  hands  by  his  treason,  and 
the  county,  honour  and  lordship  of  Pembroke,  with  numerous  specified 
rights  and  appurtenances.  By  K. 

Aug.  23.         Grant,  daring  pleasure,  to  John  Stretton  of  the  Cluniac  order  of  the 
WV'stuiinscer.  administration  of  the  temporalities  of  the  priory  of  Monkton  Farlegh,  co. 
Wilts,  now  void,  without  rendering  any  account  to  the  king. 


Membrane  4. 

Aug.  10.         Grant  for  life  to  Master  William  Hatteclyff,  doctor  of  medicine,  of  40/, 

\Yc»nniii8ter.  yearly  from  the  first  day  of  the  reign  from  the  issues  of  the  king's  lordship 

of  Eyrketon  in  Lyndeseye,  co.  Lincoln,  in  lieu  of  a  like  grant  from  the 

issues  of  the  king's  mines  of  gold  and  silver  in  the  counties  of  Devon  and 

Cornwall  by  letters  patent  dated  14  May,  surrendered.  By  p.s. 

Mandate  in  pursuance  to  the  receivers  of  the  lordship. 

Sept.  16.         Grant  in  fee  simple  to  the  king's  servant  Thomas  Burgh,  one  of  the 

WesttoiDHter.  esquires  of  the  body,  of  the  manor  and  lordship  of  Drayton  and  all  lands 

and  possessions  in  the  parishes  of  Drayton,  Coleham  and  Woxebrige,  co. 

Middlesex,  late  of  William  Waynesford,  one  of  the  servants  of  Margaret, 

late  queen  of  England,  in  the  king's  hands  by  reason  of  his  rebellion. 

ByK. 

July  12.  Grant  to  the  king's  servant  Thomas  Herbert  (he  elder,  one  of  the 
Northttinpton.  esquires  of  the  body,  and  the  heirs  male  of  his  body,  of  the  manors  of 
Hariscombe  and  Dontisburn,  co.  Gloucester,  and  all  lands  there  and  the 
manor  of  Treget  within  the  lordship  of  Urchynfeld,  in  the  county  of  Here- 
ford,  and  the  marches  of  Wales,  with  the  advowsons  of  the  churches  of 
Jrurise^jiiibe,  Dontisburn  and  Trogot,  and  the  reversion  of  the  lands  which 
Frances  Mull  holds  for  life  within  iliu  manor  of  Treget,  and  all  ollMir  lauds 
in  England  and  the  marches  of  Wales  late  of  William  Mull,  knight,  in  the 


198  CALENDAR  OF  PATENT  ROLLS. 


1462.  Membrane  Ai^^ont, 

king's  hands  bj  reason  of  his  rebellion  and  forfeiture,  witli  all  woods,  mills, 
fisheries,  knights'  fees,  wards,  marriages,  reliefs,  escheats,  courts,  yiews  of 
frank  pledge  and  other  appurtenances,  to  hold  bj  fealty  only.  By  p.s. 

Sept.  16.         Grant  for  life  to  the  king's  servant  Richard  Byndewyn  of  the  office  of 

Westminiter.  auditor  of  all  receivers  of  tlie  king's  lands,  lordships  and  manors  of  Visez, 

Merleburgh,  Corsham,  Gyllyngham  and   Odiham,  in  the  counties  of  Wilts, 

Southampton  and  Dorset,  with  the  accustomed  fees.  By  p.s. 

Sept.  16.         Grant  in  fee  simple  to  William  Stanley,  king's  knight,  one  of  the  king's 
Westminster.   *kervers'  {treficheatonim)  of  all  lands  called  '  Cobbeshole,'  co.  Kent,  late  of 
Robert  Myrefyn,  a  rebel,  extended  at  the  yearly  value  of  lOOs. 

By  p.8.  [1046] 

Sept.  6.         Letters   of   denization   as  Englishmen   for   the   king's   servitor    David 

Westmiflster.  Middelton,  one  of  the  yeomen  of  the  crown,  born  a  Welshman,  and  the  heirs 

male  of  his  body.  By  p.s. 

Sept.  16.         Grant  to  Richard  Harecourt,  esquire,  and  'Edith  his  wife  and  the  heirs 

Westminster,   male  of  their  bodies,  for  his  good  service  to  the  king  and  his  father  Richard, 

late  duke  of  York,  of  the  manor  of  Shottyswell,  co.  Warwick,  not  exceeding 

the  yearly  value  of  18/.  in  the  king's  hands  by  reason  of  the  forfeiture  of 

James,  late  earl  of  Wiltshire.  By  K. 

Sept.  10.         Grant,  during  office,  to  Richard  Illyngworth,  chief  baron  of  the  Exche- 

Westminster.   quer,  of  110  marks  yearly  at  the  Exche(|uer  and  two  robes  yearly,  one  with 

skin  at  Christmas  and  one  with  lining  at  Whitsuntide,  beyond  his  accustomed 

fee.  By  K.  by  word  of  month. 

Sept.  16.         Pardon  to  Thomas  Gille  the  younger,  late  escheator  in  the  counties  of 
Westminster.   Somerset  and  Dorset,  of  32/.  due  from  him  to  the  king,  viz.,  26/.  from  the 
farm  of  Fordyngton,  and  6/.  from  the  farm  of  the  king's  manor  or  lordship 
of  Coremalet,  of  which,  with  10/.  of  his  own  money,  he  was  robbed. 

ByK. 

Sept  17-         Grant  for  life  to  Mary  de  Bedford,  lady  de  la  Sparre,  of  40/.  yearly  from 
Westminster,  the  petty  custom  in  the  port  of  London.     [Foedera.']  "By  K. 

Aug.  15.  Grant  for  life  to  Thomas  Walterot  of  the  office  of  being  one  of  the  king's 
Westminster.  Serjeants  at  arms,  with  wages  of  I2d.  daily  from  Michaelmas  last  from  a 
moiety  of  two  water  mills  below  the  castle  of  Oxford,  the  meadow  by  Osney 
called  '  Kyngesmede '  (and  a  moiety  of  a  fishery  in  the  river  Temse  trom 
the  bridge  called  *  Hidebiugge  '  to  the  said  mills,  which  Richard  Forest  held 
for  life  of  the  grant  of  Richard  II.,  at  a  rent  of  20/.  yearly,  with  a  coat  of  the 
king's  livery  yearly  at  Christmas  at  the  groiit  wardrobe  of  the  same  suit  and 
cloth  as  other  Serjeants  at  arms  and  all  other  fees  and  profits,  in  lieu  of 
another  grant  to  him  of  the  same  office  with  wages  from  the  farm  of  the 
city  of  Winchester  by  letters  patent  surrendered.  By  p.s. 

July  1.  The  like  to  William  Stephens  of  tdl  lands  and  possessions  late  of  William, 

Westminster,  viscount  Beaumont,  knight,  in  Alton,  co.  Southampton,  in  the  king's  hands 

by  reason  of  an  act  of  forfeiture  in  Parliament  at  Westminster,  4  November, 

not  exceeding  the  yearly  value  of  10  marks.  By  p.s. 

Sept.  17.         The  like  to  Thomas  Seyntlaurence,  son  of  Christopher  Seyntlaurence, 

Westmioster.   knight,  lord  (domini)  of  Houthe,  of  the  manor  and  lordship  of  Ratouthe  in 

Ireland  to  the  value  of  20  marks  yearly.  By  K. 

Membrane  3. 

Aug.  10.        Grant  to  the  king's  brother  George,  duke  of  Clarence,  and  the  heirs  of 

Westminster,  his  body  of  the  manors  and  lordships  of  Lynton,  Letheley,  Kirkeleventon, 

Tadcastre,  Poklyngton,  Scorburgh,    Nafferton,  Wandesford,   Hundmanby, 

Semarr  and  Thnistauby   and   an   inn  or  messuage   within   the   town  of 

Kyngcston  on  HuUe,  co.  York,  the  manor  and  lortlship  of  Helagh  in  the 


2  EDWA&D  tV.— Part  I,  199 


1462.  Membrane  3 — cont. 

county  of  the  citj  of  York,  and  all  lauds  late  of  Henry,  late  earl  of  Northum- 
berland, in  the  said  city,  the  castle,  manor,  and  lordship  of  Alnewyk,  the 
manors  and  lordships  of  Beuwyk,  Ruglee,  Hoghton,  Lessebury,  Aylmouth, 
Tughall,  Bilton,  Swynhowe,  Newham,  Chatton,  Elyngeham,  Newstede, 
Lukre,  Southecharleton,  Thristerton,  Birlycg,  Fowdon,  Lan^eley  and 
Biker  by  Newcastle-upou-Tyne,  the  castle,  manor  and  lordship  of  Suyngham 
and  all  lands  late  of  the  said  earl  called  '  Talbotes  Lan4le9 '  in  Tyndale,  eo. 
Northumberland,  the  manors  and  lordships  of  Calceby,  Malberthorp,  The- 
dilthorp  and  Thurthorp,  co.  Lincoln,  Foston,  co.  Leicester,  Iselhlam,  co. 
Cambridge,  and  Cratfeld,  co.  Suffolk,  two  inns  or  messuages  in  the  parishes 
of  St.  Katharine  Colman  and  St.  Anne  by  Aldrichegate,  London,  and  all 
other  lands  and  possessions  late  of  the  said  earl  in  those  places,  wiih 
knights'  fees,  advowsons,  wards,  marriages,  reliefs,  escheats,  parks,  warrens, 
forests,  chaces,  fisheries,  fairs,  markets,  views  of  frank-pledge,  courts  leet, 
bondmen,  liberties,  franchises  and  other  appurtenances,  in  the  king's  hands 
by  reason  of  an  act  of  Parliament  at  Westminster,  4  November,  and  also 
the  lordship  and  manor  of  Kyme  and  all  lands  and  possessions  in  the 
county  of  Lincoln  late  of  William  Tailboys,  knight,  in  the  king's  hands  as 
above.  By  p.s. 

Grant  to  the  said  duke  as  above  of  the  reversion  of  the  castle,  manor  and 
lord&hip  of  Warke worth  and  the  manors  and  lordships  of  Corbrigge,  Bouthe- 
bury,  Newburn  and  Aclyngton,  co.  Northumberland,  Lekyngfeld,  Amin, 
Arruners  and  Catton,  co.  York,  and  Petteworth,  co.  Sussex,  on  the  death 
of  Eleanor  late  the  wife  of  Henry,  earl  of  Northumberland,  with  knights' 
fees,  advowsons  etc.,  belonging  to  the  king  rs  above.  By  p.s. 

Aug.  18.         General  pardon  to  Richard  Kirkeby,  '  gentilman,'  of  all  offences  committed 
Fothcringhay.  by  him  before  11  August.  By  p.s. 

Sept.  20.  Protection  for  the  priory  of  Nuneton,  co.  Warwick,  and  its  possessions, 
Westminster,  which  the  king  has  taken  into  his  hands  on  account  of  the  bad  and  wasteful 
governance  of  Matilda,  the  prioress,  and  ap[K)intment  of  the  abbot  of 
Leicester,  the  abbot  of  Meryvalle,  the  prior  of  Coventre,  William  Hastyhges 
of  Hastynges,  knight,  Richard  J^yngham,  one  of  the  justices  of  the  Bench, 
William  Witham,  clerk,  John  Boteler,  clerk,  William  Faux,  clerk,  and 
Richard  Nele,  to  the  <:ustody  of  the  same.  They  are  to  apply  all  issues 
beyond  the  necessary  sustenance  of  the  prioress  and  convent  and  their 
servants  to  the  relief  of  the  priory  and  to  enquire  into  all  the  excesses  and 
alienations  committed. 

July  10.  Grant  for  life  to  the  king's  servitor,  Robert  Palmer,  esquire,  for  his  good 

Nurtbampton.  service  to  the  king's  father  and  the  king,  and  because  he  has  no  landis  or 
offices  of  the  king's  grant,  of  all  lands  and  possessions  which  William,  late 
viscount  Beaumont,  had  in  Kirklangton,  Thorplangton,  Westlangton  and 
Tirlyngton,  co.  Leicester,  in  the  king's  hands  by  his  forfeiture,  not  exceeding 
the  sum  of  16/.  By  p.s. 

Sept  10.        General  pardon  to  Thomas  Markham  of  Hastyng,  co.  Sussex,  *  marchaunt.' 
VVestuiiuster.  By  p.s. 

J  uly  26.         Grant  to  the  king's  servant  John  Toures  and  the  heirs  of  his  body  of  the 

We&tmiiiBter.  manor  of  Whitecok  and  a  piece  of  vacant  land  called  *  Savaye,'  co.  Leicester, 

not  exceeding  the  yearly  value  of  6/.,  at  a  rent  of  3«.  4td*  to  be  paid  yearly 

at  the  Exchequer  by  the  hands  of  the  sheriff*  By  p.s. 

Sept.  30.         Grant  for  life  to  William  Berton  of  an  annuity  of  lOOi.  from  the  farm  of 
Westminster.  Eyugeslowey  Dunhampford  and  Blengate,  co.  Kent.  By  p.8. 

MSMBRANB  2. 

May  29.  Grunt  for  life  to  William  Bcnsclyn,  monk  and  priest,  of  the  alien  priory 

Leicester,      of  Modbury,  co.  DcvoU|  with  the  advowsou  of  the  viairago  oi'  Modbury, 


200  C ALteNb AR  OF  JP ATENT  ROLLS. 


1462.  Membrane  3 — cont. 

knights*  fees  and  oth^r  appurtenances,  in  the  king's  hands  by  reason  of  an 
act  of  Parliament  at  Westminster,  4  November.  By  p.s. 

Feb.  24.  Grant  to  John  Howard,  king's  knight,  and  the  heirs  male  of  his  body,  of 
Westmioster.  the  manors  of  Leyham  alias  Overburyhall  in  Leyham  and  Wherstede,  co. 
Suffolk,  and  Smethton  Hall,  co.  Essex,  late  of  James,  late  earl  of  Wiltshire, 
the  manors  of  Dontissh  and  Deuelyssh,  co.  Dorset,  late  of  Nicholas  Latymer, 
knight,  the  manor  of  Hereford,  co.  Norfolk,  late  of  Thomas  Danyell  late  of 
Resyng,  co.  Norfolk,  esquire,  and  the  manor  of  Meyton  Hall,  co.  Norfolk, 
late  of  Giles  Seyntlowe  late  of  London,  esquire,  in  the  king's  hands  by 
xeason  of  an  act  of  forfeiture  of  Parliament  at  Westminster,  4  November, 
with  knight's  fees,  advowsons  and  other  profits,  provided  that  he  answer  at 
the  Exchequer  for  any  surplus  above  110/.  yearly.  By  p.s. 

Sept.  19.         Pardon  to  Richard  Page  and  Beatrice  late  the  wife  of  Richard  Stirkeland, 

Westminster,   esquire,  tenant  in  chief  of  Henry  VI.,  for  their  trespass  in  intermarrying 

without  licence. .  By  p.s. 

Aug.  20.         Inspeximus  and  confirmation  of  letters  patent  dated   19  November,  1 

Westminster.  Richard  II.,  inspecting  and  confirming  letters  patent  [French]  dated  10 

March,  1  Edward  III.,  being  a  grant  to  the  girdlers  of  London  of  certain 

liberties.  For  5  marks  paid  in  the  hanaper. 

Oct.  22.  Revocation  of  protection  with  clause  volumus,ioT  one  year,  lately  granted 
Westminster,  by  letters  patent  to  Richard  Poort  alias  Port  alias  Richard  Kobert  of 
Brystowe,  *  merchaunt,'  going  on  the  king's  service  in  the  company  of  John 
Wode,  king's  esquire,  victualler  of  the  town  of  Calais,  for  the  safe-custody 
and  victualling  of  the  same,  on  certificate  by  the  sheriffs  of  London  that  he 
has  not  gone. 

Oct.  20.  Grant  to  the  bailiffs  and  burgesses  of  Great  Jememuth  of  murage  for  10 

Westminster,  years  for  the  enclosing  of  the  town  under  the  supervision  of  Walter,  bishop 
of  Norwich. 

Membrane  1. 

Sept.  21.  Licence  for  John,  lord  le  Straunge,  son  and  heir  of  Elizabeth  le  Straunge, 

Westminster,   deceased,  late  the  wife  of  Richard,  lord  le  Straunge,  knight,  deceased,  who 

is  nearly  of  full  age,  to  enter  into  all  his  possessions  in  England  and  Wales 

and  the  marches  of  Wales.  By  p.s. 

Sept.  17.         Grant  for  life  to  the  king's  servitor  Christopher  Worseley,  esquire,  one  of 

Westminster,  the  marshals  of  the  hall  of  the  king's  household,  of  the  offices  of  constable 

of  the  king's  castle  of  Dunstar,  co.  Somerset,  and  keeper  of  the  king's  parks 

in  his  lordship  of  Dunstar,  receiving  the  accustomed  fees  from  the  issues  of 

the  said  lordship  with  all  other  profits.  By  K. 

Membrane  27d. 

Commissions  of  the  peace  in  various  counties  pursuant  to  the  statutes  and 
ordinances  at  Winchester,  Northampton,  Westminster  and  Cambridge 
(see  Appendix), , 

May  16.  The  like  to  William  Jenney,  John  Damme,  Hamo  Pulham,  Edmund 

Westminster.   Wydewell,  John  Alman  and  Thomas  Chapman  in  the  town  of  Great  Jerne- 
mouth|  CO.  Norfolk. 

Membrane  2Gd^ 
Commissions  of  the  peace  in  various  counties  (see  Appendiii) . 

Membrane  25J. 
Commissions  of  the  peace  in  various  counties  {see  Appendix). 


i  ilDWARI)  IV.— i?ART  i.  20t 


1462.  MSMBRANE  24<f. 

July  1.  Commission  to  John  Twyer,  esquire,  Thomas  Edmond  and  John  Sorell 

WestmiuHter.  to  take  «hips,  vessels,  masters,  mariners  and  victuals  within  the  counties  of 
Norfolk  and  Suffolk  for  the  king's  fleet  against  his  enemies. 

July  4.  Commission  to  Robert  Wyntiyj^Hill,  John  Wode  and  William  Utworth  to 

Westminster,  enquire  what  lands  John  Busbrygge  held  of  the  late  king  and  others  in  the 
county  of  Surrey  on  the  day  of  his  death,  who  is  his  heir,  and  who  has 
occupied  the  lands  since  his  death. 

July  8.  Commission  to  William   Hastynges  of  Hastynges,   knight,   Humphrey 

Wistiniustcr.    Staftbrd  of  Sovth>vyk,  knight,  Thomas  Clemens,  John  Broke,  Thomas 

Aleyn,  Geoffrey  Kydwelly  and  William  Menwennek   to  demise  at  farm  for 

20  years  or  less  all  lands  in  the  counties  of  Devon  and  Cornwall  belongin*if 

to  toe  duchv  of  Cornwall.  By  bill  of  the  treasurer. 

Si'pt.  6.  Commission  to  Henry  Pomerey,  esquire,  and  Nicholas  Southcotes,  one  of 

\Vestiuin!>ter.  the  king's  serjeants-at-arms,  to  arrest  Bartholomew  the  parish  chaplain  of 
Littelhempston  and  bring  him  before  the  king  in  Chancery. 

Membrane  2\d. 

Mrtr<'l«  24.  Commission  to  Henry  Bodrugan,  Philip  Beaumont,  Maurice  Dcnys, 
Wistiiiinsier.  John  Awesthill,  James  Heyate,  Thomas  Wodeward,  Philip  Samvill,  Robert 
Heyate,  John  Banwelle,  John  Walshe,  Walter  Holder,  William  Pryn2e, 
Thomas  Bawedyn,  Edward  Beterley,  Robert  Huett  and  Richard  Halle  to 
arrest  Peter  Trevuwith,  John  Harry  Barowe,  William  Jakhik,  John  Petyte, 
maryner,  John  a  Nicer,  Hugh  Harry  Barowe,  Graund  John,  John  William 
Treskawe,  Peter  Jakhnrry,  Henry  Fevyn,  John  Calmady,  Joceus  Amyll, 
John  Andrewe,  Geoifrey  Harry  Barowe,  pirate^,  William  Goldsmyth  aiias 
Iris'^h  of  Glastonbury,  co.  Somerset,  *  goldsmyth,'  and  John  Bevile  late  of  the 
county  of  Gloucester,  ^yoman,'  and  bring  them  before  the  king  in  Chancery ; 
as  it  appears  by  an  inquisition  made  before  Thomas  Clemens  and  Walter  Code 
that  William  de  Suharra,  master  of  a  barge  called  le  Kateryn  of  Bayonue, 
loaded  the  same  at  Bordeaux  with  10  tuns  of  iron,  47  tuns  of  wine,  80 
pounds  of  saffron,  60  pounds  of  ivory  and  other  goods  and  merchandise  of 
Richard  Burton  and  William  Joce  under  a  safe  conduct  under  the  great 
seal  dated  8  October,  30  Henry  VI.,  and  brought  them  to  England  near  the 
coast  of  Seyntyes,  co.  Cornwall,  and  that  when  the  barge  was  at  anchor 
thereon  24  December,  30  Henry  VI.,  the  above  named  offenders,  except  the 
said  William  and  John,  seized  the  barge  and  took  the  goods  to  their  own 
U8C  and  that  of  the  latter. 

March  24.  Commission  to  Robert  Legh  of  Adlyngton,  esquire,  William  Stanley  of 
Wcstmioster.  Hoton,  esquire,  and  John  Savage  the  elder,  esi^uire,  to  take  muster  of 
Roland  FitzEustace,  knight,  lord  of  Portlestre,  and  300  archers  at  some 
convenient  place  near  Chester  on  19  April,  from  which  date  until 
Michaelmas  he  has  been  retained  with  the  said  archers  for  the  safe-custody 
of  Ireland,  and  to  rej)ort  upon  their  number  and  equipment.  By  C. 

The  like  to  William  Wclly^*,  knight,  chancellor  of  Ireland,  Robert 
Burnell,  knight,  mayor  of  Dublin,  and  Nicholas  Barnewell  on  the  landing 
of  the  said  Roland  in  Ireland  and  at  other  times.  By  C. 

March  29,        Appointment,  until  1  September,  of  Richard  More  to  provide  oxen  and 
VVeittminster.    muttons  for  the  expenses  of  the  king's  household. 

Bv  bill  of  the  treasurer  of  the  household. 

•i 

March  28.        Commission  of  oyer  and  terminer  to  the  king's  kinsman,  William,  earl  of 

Westminster.    Arundel,  Richard  West  de  la  Warre,  knight,  John  Bourghchier  of  Barners, 

knight,  Humphrey  S:aiford  of  Suthwyk,  knight,  John   M^rkham,  knight^ 

Robert  Danby,  knight,  Peter  Ardern,  knight,  William  Yeiverton,  knight^ 

Richard  Byngham,  Nicholas  Ayssheton^  Robert  Danvers^  Walter  MoylQ| 


202  CALENDAtt  OF  PATENT  ROLLS. 


1462.  Membrane  2\d — cont. 

John  Nedeham,  Richard  Ohok,  John  Ljsle,  knight,  Maurice  Berkeley  of 
Bevei-stony  Thomas  Uvedale,  John  Wallop,  Reginald  Uvedale  and  WUliam 
Sandes  touching  certain  treasons  committed  within  the  county  of  South- 
ampton bj  Thomas  Morice,  late  of  Portesmuth,  '  yoman,'  and  Edmund 
Ordgrave,  late  of  Bishop's  Waltham,  *  yoman.'  By  C. 

March  30.        Appointment,  until  1  October,  of  Richard  Sutton,  fishmonger  of  London, 
Wcstmiiuter.  to  provide  all  kinds  of  saltwater  fish  for  the  expenses  of  the  king's  house- 
hold. By  bill  of  the  treasurer  of  the  household. 

April  3.  Commission  to  William  Hoorde,  bailiif  of  the  liberty  of  the  honour  of 

Westminster.  Walyngford,  and  William  Dyer  and  James  Annesley,  bailifis  of  the  town  of 
Woxbrigge,  to  arrest  John  Symond,  'yoman,'  and  Nicholas  Stretche, 
'  taillour/  and  bring  them  before  the  king  in  Chancery. 

April  8.  The  like  to  William  Harecourt,  John  Grevyll,  Thomas  Hoggeford  and 

Westminster.  John  Hoggeford  to  arrest  Richard  Verney,  knight,  Edmund  Veraey  his 
son  and  Roger  Lie,  chaplain,  and  bring  them  before  the  king  and  council. 

MSMBRANS  20d. 

April  8.  Commission  to  the  mayor  of  Sandwich  and  William  Over  ay  to  enquire 

Westminster,  into  the  complaint  of  Gerard  Newport  of  Midelbourgh  in  Seland,  merchant, 
that  whereas  he  lately  freighted  a  ship  called  le  Pynkc  of  Midelbourgh,  of 
which  Hugh  Johnson  was  master,  with  salt  fish,  linen  cloth,  and  white  salt 
beyond  seas,  and  brought  it  to  a  place  called  Estnasse  without  Colnewater, 
Richard  Kyng  of  Sandwich,  master  of  a  vessel  called  Gaundhale^  alias 
Crakebote  of  which  James  Funieys  of  Sandwich  was  owner,  and  John 
Williamson  and  William  Costryne  with  other  pirates,  asserting  themselves 
to  be  servants  of  the  king's  kinsman  Richard,  earl  of  Warwick,  seized  the 
said  ship  on  Midsummer  Eve  last  and  despoiled  it  of  the  merchandise  and 
rigging,  contrary  to  the  ancient  iriendship  between  the  king  and  the  men 
of  Seland  ;  and  to  cause  restitution  to  be  made. 

May  3.  Commission   to   William  Bourghchier  of    FitzWareyn,    knight,   Henry 

Westminster.   Bodrugan,  esquire,  Thomas  Clemens,  William  Monke  and  Thomas  Davy  to 

arrest  John  Michel  of  Bodenuek,  co.  Cornwall,  '  maryner,'  John  Gravel!  of 

Golenante,  co.   Cornwall,   ^maryner,'  and   Maurice   Cruse    of  Bodennek, 

'  maryner,'  and  bring  them  before  the  king  in  Chancery. 

MSMBRANS   I9d. 

April  IL         Commission  to  George   Darell,  keeper   of  the  great  wardrobe,  to  take 
Westminster,  broderers  {hrauderarios)^  tailora,  skinners,  painters,  armourers,  upholsterers 
(tapiteras),  cloth  cutters  and  other  workmen  for  the  wardrobe   and  all 
necessaries  for  the  same. 

April  6.  Commission   to  the   mayor  and  aldermen  of  the  city  of  London  and 

Westminster.  Raugecrois,  one  of  the  king's  pursuivants  (jfrosecutarum)^  to  arrest  James 

Fourneys,  master  and  owner  of  a  ship  called  le ,  and  his  accomplices, 

who  rob  the  king's  subjects  and  alien  merchants  coming  under  safe-conducts 
at  sea  and  in  the  river  Thames,  and  bring  them  belore  the  king  in  council, 
and  to  seize  the  said  ship  with  its  rigging  and  any  goods  that  may  be 
in  it. 

Mbmbranb  IM. 

IAbj  11.         Commission  of  oyer  and  terminer  to  John  Stourton  of  Stourton,  knight, 

Westminster.   Humphrey  Stafford  of  Suthewyke,   knight,   Nicholas  Ayssbetou,  Walter 

Moyle,  Richard  Chok,  William  Stourton,  knight,  Reginald  Stourton,  knight, 

Theobald  Gorges,  knight^  John  Wiiloughby,  knight,  William  Courtenay, 


2  EDWABD  IV.— Part  I.  203 


1462.  Membrane  I8d — cont. 

Henry  Longe,  Thomas  Roggers,  John  FitzJames^  John  Whittokesmede, 
John  Sydenham  the  elder,  John  Sydenham  the  younger,  William  Brounyng, 
John  Neweburgh  and  John  Porter  touching  certain  treasons,  rebellions, 
felonies  and  otlier  offences  in  the  counties  of  Wilts,  Somerset,  and  Dorset. 

ByC. 

Membranb  nd. 

March  14.  Commission  to  John,  abbot  of  Quarre,  Geoffrey  Gate,  lieutenant,  keeper 
\\'cstm;nster.  and  governor  of  the  king's  castle  of  Caresbroke  and  lordship  and  island  of 
Wight,  John  Haket,  John  Bussell,  Thomas  Haynowe  and  Thomas  Boure- 
man  to  take  men  of  the  said  island  and  the  counties  of  Southampton, 
Surrey  and  Sussex  for  defence  of  the  castle  and  ii>land  against  the  king's 
adversaries  of  France  and  other  foreign  parts  whensoever  they  may 
attempt  an  invasion  and  to  cause  all  who  have  lands  and  other  possessions 
within  the  island  to  supply  men  for  defence  and  watches. 

^fjirch  14.        Commission  to  John  Sewer,  John  Enderby  and  Thomas  Beryngton  to 
Westminster,  arrest  Simon  Catane  of  Genoa,  merchant,  and  bring  him  before  the  king  in 
Chancery. 

May  12.         The  like  to  John  Howard,  knight,  Richard  Welden,  esquire,  and  Richard 

'.VestmiDster.   George,  one  of  the  king's  Serjeants  at  arms,  and  the  bailiffs  of  Bury  St. 

Edmunds  to  arrest  Hugh  Babyngton,  Edmund  Lorymer,  John  Wratton, 

Robert  Aylewyn,  John  Gye,  William  Butte,  John  White,  John  Porter  and 

William  Aweiyn  and  bring  them  before  the  king  and  council. 

Membrane  16c/. 

^fay  20.  Commission  to  the  mayor  of  Sandwich  to  enquire  into  the  complaint  of 

Wcstmiuster.  Arnald  dc  Tursy  and  John  de  Pruyle,  merchants  of  Bayonne,  that  when 
they  were  lately  at  anchor  near  the  coast  of  Sandwich  in  lez  Downes  under 
letters  of  safe-conduct  of  the  king  in  a  ship  called  te  Clement  of  Bayonne  of 
which  James  de  Mouutsegur,  Martin  de  Ratso,  Bartelon  de  le  Hiage  or 
Permanton  de  Saint  Joini  is  master,  laden  with  divers  goods  and  mer- 
chandise, certain  men  in  two  ships  of  Portugal  came  up  to  seize  them  and 
their  goods,  and  they  fled  for  fear  to  the  port  of  Sandwich  and  there 
unloaded  the  ship  and  loaded  it  again  with  other  goods,  and  the  others 
caused  them  and  their  ship  to  be  arrested  under  colour  of  a  warrant  from 
the  court  of  the  constable  of  Dover  Castle  or  the  Admiralty. 

May  28.  Commission  to  William  Yelverton,  knight,  John  Damme,  John  Twyer, 

Leicester.      John  Barney  and  the  sheriff  of  Norfolk  to  inquire  into  the  report  that 

Thomas    Brigge   and    William  Willy  are   stirring   up  insurrections  and 

circulating  false  rumours  within  the  city  of  Norwich  and  elsewhere  in  that 

county  and  to  arrest  and  imprison  the  offenders  and  their  abettoi's. 

Membrane  14c/. 

June  4.  Commission  to  John  de  Audeley,  John  Stourton  of  Stourton,  knight, 

We«tmiD8ter.  Humphrey  Stafford  of  Suthewyk,  knight,  Theobald  Gorge,  knight,  John 
Sydynham  the  elder,  John  Sydynham  the  younger,  William  Brounyng, 
John  Neubourgh,  John  Hert,  William  Scot  and  the  sheriffs  of  Somerset, 
Dorset,  Wilts,  Cornwall,  Southampton,  Middlesex,  Buckingham,  Oxford, 
Berks  and  Gloucester  to  enquire  into  the  tenure  and  value  of  the  lands 
and  p  ossessions  which  Robert  Elungerford,  knight,  late  lord  of  Hungerford 
and  Moleyns,  attainted  of  high  treason  by  authority  of  Parliament  at  West- 
minster, 4  November,  held  in  those  counties. 

May  2U.         Commission  to  John  Howard,  knight,  and  Thomas  Walgrave,  knight,  to 
Wcstmitifrter.  take  the  ships  called  la  Marie  Talbot  of  Lenn  and  la  Marie  Thomson 


204  cAlMdar  of  PATENt  iaoLLs. 


1462.  Membrane  lid^^cont 

Lenn  and  any  other  vessels  and  ships  within  tlie  ports  of  the  counties  of 
Norfolk,  Suffolk  and  Essex  and  masters  and  mariners  for  the  same  for  the 
king's  fleet  against  his  enemies. 

.fiine  6.  The  like  to  William  Bourghchier  of  Fitz  Wareyn,  knight,  Humphrey 

Wi  stiiiiiwter.  Stafford  of  Suthwyk,  knight,  Philip  Courteoay,  knight,  Philip  Beaumont, 
Otto  Gilbert,  Nicholas  Kirkeham,  John  G-ybbes,  William  Champeraon,  St. 
Clare  Pomeray,  Humphrey  Courtenay,  Thomas  Voyse  and  John  Crokker  to 
take  vessels  and  ships  for  the  said  fleet  within  the  ports  of  the  counties  of 
Devon  and  Cornwall  and  masters  and  mariners  for  the  same,  soldiers, 
smiths,  carpenters  and  other  workmen,  and  bows,  bowstrings,  arrows, 
lances,  cannons  and  powder,  cables,  cords,  wheat,  beans,  peas,  cheese,  ale, 
meat  and  other  victuals. 

May  11.  The  like  to  John  Colshull,  knight,  Thomas  Butside,  esquire,  Thomas 
Wcstmiuster.  Clemens,  A  lured  Corneburgh,  David  Selly  the  elder  and  Richard  Bonde  to 
take  vessels  and  ships  for  the  said  fleet  within  the  port  of  Ayssh  and  the 
river  Tamer,  co.  Cornwall,  and  masters  and  mariners  for  the  same,  and  to 
induce  the  king's  subjects  of  the  hundreds  of  Trigge,  Este,  Weste,  Stratton 
and  Lesnewith,  co.  Cornwall,  to  provide  victuals  and  array  men  at  their  own 
expense. 

The  like  to  Thomas,  prior  of  the  church  of  St.  Petroc,  Bodmyn,  Hugh 
Courtoney,  knight,  I'homas  Bone  vile,  esquire,  Richard  Penpons,  Thomas 
Trefry,  John  Salter,  William  Horde,  Otto  Trevuwjth,  William  Clemowe  and 
Thomas  Shiref  to  take  vessels  and  ships  as  above  within  the  port  of  Fowy  and 
masters  and  mariners  for  the  same,  and  to  induce  the  king's  subjects  of  the 
hundreds  of  Poudre,  Pydre,  Pen  with  and  Kerrier,  co.  Cornwall,  to  provide 
victuals  and  array  men  as  above. 

June  9.  Commission  to  John  Brekenok,  esquire,  Peter  Howse,  David  Brekenok, 

\\  iiitniintter.  Thomas  Hampden  and  Richard  Cary  to  arrest  William  Treug,  canon,  John 
Tofte,  canon,  Henry  Mussenden,  canon,  Nicholas  Richeman,  John  Riche- 
roan,  John  Coke,  Thomas  Joones,  John  Cokke  the  younger,  Thomas  Lord, 
Simon  Pranke,  Henry  Gery,  Thomas  Betley,  John  Hariewyn,  William 
Hackar,  John  Spryng,  Thomas  Forde,  Henry  Wylot,  Robert  Leggegnme, 
Thomas  Godeman,  lloger  Hulle  and  Edmund  Orchard  and  bring  them 
before  the  king  in  Chancery  to  find  security  that  they  will  not  injure  Robert 
Rysborwe,  abbot  of  Mussenden,  or  his  houses  by  fire. 

Juno  16.         Commission  to  John  Burdeaux  and  Robert  Skegnes,  masters  of  two  ships 
Wustminster.   called   la  Katerine   Dureux  and   la  Marie  Kent,  to   take   masters  and 
mariners  for  the  same  for  the  king's  fleet.  By  C. 

The  like  to  the  following,  masters  of  the  ships  named ; 
John  Porter,  master  of  le  Trlnite  IVarrewyh. 
John  Hertylpole,  master  of  le  Cristofer  Warrewyk, 
Thomas  William  and  Richard  Barre,  masters  of  le  George  and  le 

Crutofer. 
Richard  Straunge,  master  of /€  Katerine  Warr\ewyli\ 
Thomas  Phelipp,  master  of  le  Marie  Clyffy  and  Oto  Colyn. 
William  Thomas,  master  of  Marie  Wdrwik, 

William  Fetherston,  master  of  le  Marie   Grace,  Ralph  Dowenet  and 
John  Mewes. 

June  14.         Commission  to  John,  earl  of  Worcester,  William,  earl  of  Kent,  Hugh 

Weatminrter.   Whiche,  mayor  of  London,  Robert  Danby,  knight,  and  Thomas  Urswyk  to 

deliver  the  gaol  of  Newgate  of  Robert  vVheler  of  London,  *  yoman,'  John 

Mille  of  London,  *  yoman,'  Roger  Courteys  of  London,  *gentilman,'  and 

Patrick  Wolff  alias  Noreys  of  London,  *  yoman,'  prisoners  there. 

June  20.         Commission  to  John  Brekenok,  David  Breknok,  Richard  Bedford  and 

W'estniitiHter.  Thomas  Hampden   to    arrest   William    Hacker,   Thomas    Foorde,   John 

Sprynge,  Thomas  Gkx>deman,  Roger  Hulle,  John  Shoram,  Thomas  Dagnale| 


2  EDWARD  IV,— Pabt  1.  205 


1462*  Membrane  14c? — coni,' 

John  Veerne,  Thomas  Bitheley,  John  Rycheman,  John  Cooke,  John  Cokke 
the  younger  and  Robert  Legham  and  bring  them  before  the  king  and  council 
to  answer  for  certain  riots. 

Membrane  \M. 

March  14.  Commission  to  John  Lescrop  of  Bolton,  knight,  Thomas  Cobham,  knight, 
Westminster.  John  Say,  Nicholas  Sharp,  Thomas  Stutevile,  Ralph  Cressener  and  Thonms 
Bray  to  enquii*e  into  the  Complaint  of  John  Dorward  and  William  Mulso 
that,  whereas  Humphrey,  late  duke  of  Buckingham,  William,  late  marquis 
of  Suffolk,  William  Oldiialle,  knight,  Edmund  Mulso,  knight,  John  Harles- 
ton,  John  Stodehaugh  and  they  themselves  were  seised  in  their  demesne  as 
of  fee  of  a  messuage,  150  acres  of  land,  19  acres  of  meadow,  46*.  rent  and  a 
rent  of  6  capons,  in  Thaxstede,  Lyndesele,  Little  Berdefeld,  Stebbyng  and 
Dunmowe,  co.  Essex,  with  the  office  of  keeping  three  parks  in  Thaxstede, 
in  time  of  peace  in  the  time  of  Henry  VI.  and  received  the  esplees  thereof, 
and  the  said  marquis,  Edmund,  John,  John  and  Thomas  Dounton  died  and 
the  others  survived  them,  the  survivors  were  unjustly  disseised  of  the  same 
by  the  king's  father  Richard,  late  duke  of  York,  and  the  said  duke  and 
William  Oldehalle  since  died  and  the  possessions  passed  afterwards  on  the 
death  of  the  duke  of  York  to  the  king.  By  K. 

May  14.  Commission  to  William  Yelverton,  knight,  Robert  Conyers,  knight, 
Westminster.  William  (/althorp,  John  Paston,  John  Knyvet,  Ralph  Sheltcm.  John 
Barney  of  Wychyngham,  William  Rokewode,  Thomas  Lovell,  John  Tuyer, 
John  Jenney,  John  Dam  and  Thomas  Grice  to  place  watchmen  and  watch&s 
and  signals  called  *bekyns*  within  the  county  of  Norfolk  according  to  the 
old  custom  for  defence  against  the  king's  enemies. 

Membrane  \0d. 

July  1*  Commission  de  icalliis  et  /Qssatis  to  Humphrey  Bourghchier  of  Crom- 

WestmiiiBter.   well,  knight,  William  Skipwith,  knight,  Thomas  Burgh,  Thomas  Blount, 

John  Whichecote,  Thomas  Eyme,  William  Neucome,  Thomas  Fitzwilliam 

the  younger,  Robert  Shefeld  the  younger,  John  Tailboys  and   Richard 

Haunscrt  the  elder  in  the  parts  of  Lyndesey,  co.  Lincoln. 

July  30.  Commission  to  Th.,  archbishop  of  Canterbury,  J.,  bishop  of  Chichester, 
Westminster.  William,  earl  of  Arundel,  Richard,  abbot  of  Battle,  the  prior  <if  Lewys, 
Richard  West  do  la  Warre,  knight,  Richard  Fenys  of  Dacre,  kni£;ht,  Roger 
Leukcnore,  knight,  John  Pelham,  knight,  Thomas  Echyngham,  Thomas 
Hoo,  Richard  JJalyngrige,  John  Devenysshe,  Bartholomew  Bolney,  John 
Goryng,  John  Ernele,  William  Chayne,  Robert  Oxebrigge  and  Henry  Halle 
to  levy  sums  of  money  from  all  cities,  boroughs,  towns  and  hamlets  of  the 
county  of  Sussex  who  have  hitherto  not  kept  watches,  excepting  cities 
and  boroughs  where  watches  are  kept  according  to  the  statute  of 
Winchester  from  the  Ascension  until  Michaelmas,  and  to  find  able  watch- 
men at  the  accustomed  places  on  the  coast  for  the  defence  of  the  county ; 
as  the  inhabitants  of  the  parts  near  the  sea  have  complained  that  they 
alone  have  been  charged  with  the  watches  and  the  burden  has  become 
intolerable,  so  that  the  watches  have  sometimes  been  kept  by  old  men  and 
youths  and  the  king's  enemies  have  descended  and  taken  prisoners  and 
committed  depredations.  By  C. 

Membrane  9d. 

July  12.         Commission  to  John  Grevile,  Thomas  Yong,  William  Notyngham  and 
Northampton.  Roger  Kemys  to  enquire  of  what  lands  and  tenements  Thomas  Mulle,  (*s(iuire 
and  William  Mulle,  knight, both  deceas^nl,  woix?  seised  within  the  counties  of 
Hereford  and  Gloucester  and  the  marches  of  Wales. 


200  CALENDAR  OF  PATENT  ROLLS. 


1462.  Membrane  Sd. 

July  24.  Commission  to  all  keepers  of  the  peace,  sheriffs,  mayors,  bailiffs,  con- 

Westminster.  Rtables  and  other  officers  and  ministers  of  the  king  to  arrest  and  imprison 
Williani  Gilbert,  chaplain,  William  Creswell,  chaplain,  George  Orell, 
Richard  Creswell,  John  Thorneton,  John  More,  John  Browene,  John 
Gyles,  John  Mores,*  John  Trowte,  John  Lokyngton,  friar,  alias  Robert 
Midelton,  Robert  Chapeleyn  and  John  Hamelton. 

1463. 

Feb.  27.  Commission   to  William  Eland^  John  Grene,  Nicholas  Stubbes,   John 

Westminster.  Redsain  and  the  sheriffs  of  York  and  the  town  of  K}  ngeston  on  Hull  to 
enquire  for  and  seize  the  goods  late  of  John  Routhe,  esquire,  deceased, 
rebel. 

Membrane  Id. 
1462. 

June  27.         Commission  to  Gilbert  Debenham  the  younger,  esquire,  Walter  Alderiche, 
Westminster,  master  of  a  ship  called  le  George  of  Yeruemuth,  and  John  Childe  to  take  a 
ship  called  le  Barge  of  Yeraemuth,  otherwise  le   George    with  rigging, 
habiliments,  victuals^  masters  and  mariners  for  service  in  the  king's  fleet. 

June  26.  Appointment  of  W.  archbishop  of  York,  Richard,  earl  of  Warwick,  John 
Westminster.  Neville  of  Muntague,  knight,  Robert  Danby,  knight,  Robert  Constable, 
knight,  the  mayor  of  York,  Thomas  Wytham,  Brian  Rouclyff,  Henry 
Sotehill,  Guy  Fairefax,  John  Grenef eld,  Richard  Pygote,  Henry  Thwaites, 
Nicholas  Girlyiigton,  John  Wencelagh,  John  Thirske,  Nicholas  Holgate, 
John  Marton,  William  Bradford  and  John  Shirwode  as  justices  of  the 
survey  and  custody  of  the  rivers  in  the  county  of  York  pursuant  to  the 
statutes  of  24  Edward  III.,  4o  Edward  III.,  and  1  Henry  IV.,  concerning 
the  erection  of  weirs,  mills,  stanks,  pales  and  kiddles. 

Membrane  6d. 

May  6.  Commii*sion   to   the   mayor  and  bailiffs   of  the  town  of  Southampton, 

Westminster.  Thomas  Banaster  and  Robert  Fitzherbert  to  arrest  Edward  Cateyn  of 
Genoa,  merchant,  and  bring  liim  before  the  king  in  Chancery. 


Membrane  bd. 

Aug.  25.         The    like  to    John    Wynkefeld,    knight,    Richard     Welden,     Arthur 

Westminster.   Gre^rsou,   Thomas  Achambre  and  the  bailiffs   of  the  town  of  Bury  St. 

Edmunds  to  arrest  John  Gye,  William  Awfyn,  John  Dyer  and  Thomas 

Fleccher  son   of  Edmund  Bowyer  and  bring  them   before  the  king  in 

Chancery  to  answer  for  certain  riots. 

Aug.  28.  The  like  to  William  Mulso,  esquire,  John  Brekenok,  esquire,  William 

Westminster.  Bokeland,  William  Turney,  William  Manery,  John  Ebmed,  John  Clerk, 
William  Parker,  Thomas  Russell,  John  London,  Andrew  Fynamour,  John 
Adam,  William  atte  Wyke  and  the  constables  of  the  iowns  of  Stanes, 
Egham  and  Thorp  to  airest  and  bring  before  the  king  and  council  certain 
persons  who  wander  about  by  those  towns,  and  the  adjacent  country 
stirring  up  insurrection  and  circulating  rumours  in  support  of  the  king's 
enemies,  and  have  gone  away  without  paying  their  proportion  for  the 
bridge  of  Stanes. 

Sept  15.        The  like  to  Thomas  Clemens,  Richard  Penpons,  Thomas  Bere,  Nicholas 

Westminster.  Suthcotes,  Richard  Joce,  Nicholas  Roche,  Richard  Lanar,  Robei't  Cowelyng, 

John   Raynward,  John  Penpons,    John    Treake,   John  Michell,  Robert 

Cobert,  Robert  Creef  and  the  sheriff  of  Cornwall  to  ftrrest  Oliver  Tregasowe, 


2  EDWARD  IV.— Part  I.  207 


1462.  Membrane  3d — cont, 

Stephen  Tregasowe,  George  TreahaD,  John  Treahan,  John  Gyon,  John 
Meweden,  Oto  Josep  and  Nicholas  Cioweter  and  bring  them  before  the  king 
in  Chancery, 

Sept.  16.        The  like  to  Richard  West  de  la  Ware,  knight,  John  Lewekenore,  Robert 

Westminster.  Langton,  John  Radclyff  and  Hugh  Awestyn  to  arrest  and  bring  before  the 

king  and  council  certain  persons  who  wander  about  the  countieit  of  Surrey 

and  Sussex  with  masked  and  painted  faces,  breaking  and  entering  parks, 

waiTcns  and  closes  and  wounding  and  killing  tlie  keepers. 


Membrane  2d. 

Oct.  30.         Appointment,  during  pleasure,  of  William  Lee  to  take  carpenters  and 
Westminttir.  other  workmen  and  timber  for  lances,  chests,  tables,  ^panys'  and  other 
things  for  the  works  of  his  office  and  carriage  for  the  same. 


208 


2  EDWARD  IV.— Part  II. 


1463.  Mbmbranb  26. 

Jan.  29.  Licence  for  William  Zouche,  son  and  heir  of  William  Zoache,  late  lord 

VV^estminuter.  Zouche  and  Seymour,  tenant  in  chief,  who  is  of  the  age  of  thirtv  years 

and  more,  to  enter  fi*eelj  into  all  the  lands  and  possessions  of  his  father  in 

England  and  Wales  and  the  marches  of  Wales.  By  p.s. 

1462. 

Oct.  16.  Confirmation  to  the  king's  kinsman  John  Moubray,  duke  of  Norfolk,  sou 

Westminster,  and  heir  of  John,  late  duke  of  Norfolk,  in  consideration  of  his  father's 
services  in  divers  conflicts  against  the  king's  adversaries,  of  his  creation  as 
earl  of  Warenne  and  Surrey  by  a  charter  dated  at  Westminster,  24  March, 
29  Henry  VF.  [Charter  Boll,  27-39  Henrij  VL  No,  33,]  with  remainder 
to  the  heirs  male  of  his  body ;  and  grant  to  him  and  the  said  heirs  of  20/. 
yearly  from  4  March,  1  Edward  IV.  from  the  issues  of  the  counties  of 
SuiTcy  and  Sussex,  in  consideration  of  a  like  grant  in  the  said  charter, 
annulled  by  an  act  in  Parliament  at  Westminster. 

By  p.s.  and  for  40^.  paid  in  the  hanaper. 

1463.  Membrane  25. 

Feb.  19.         Signification  to  J.  bishop  of  Lincoln,  of  the  royal  assent  to  the  election  of 

Westminster.   Elizabeth  Hasylden,  nun  of  the  monastery  of  St.  Mary  and  St.  Helen, 

Einestowe,  of  the  Benedictine  order,  as  abbess  of  that  place.  By  p.s. 

Feb.  18.  Pardon  to  Thomas  Burgh  of  Gaynesburgh,  knight,  alias  king's  esquire, 

Hertford,      constable  of  the  king's  castle  of  Lincoln,  late  sheriff  of  Lincoln,  of  all 
offences,  trespasses,  escapes  of  felons,  forfeitures,  fiues  and  amercements. 

ByK. 

Grant  for  life  to  the  king's  servant  John  Fereby,  yeoman  of  the  crown, 
of  all  lands  and  possessions  in  Beverley,  Molstoft  and  elsewhere  in  the 
county  of  York  lately  belonging  to  Richard  Cokerell,  *gentilman,' in  the 
king's  hands  by  an  act  of  attaint  in  Parliament  at  Westminster,  4  November, 
1  Edward  IV.  to  the  value  of  10/.  yearly.  By  p.s. 

Feb.  21.  Grant  for  life  to  the  king's  servitor  John  Wode,  esquire,  of  the  office  of 

AVestminster.   master  of  the  king's  ordnance,  receiving  wages  of  2*.  daily  for  himself, 
^  6d.  daily  for  his  clerk  and  6d,  daily  for  a  yeoman  under  him  from  the 

prefers  and  all  other  debts  due  to  the  king  at  the  receipt  of  the  Exchequer, 
as  granted  for  life  to  Philip  Herveys  by  letters  patent  dated  1  December, 
1  Edward  IV.  surrendered ;  and  grant  to  him  in  addition  of  4s.  daily  for 
his  regard,  with  a  livery  of  the  suit  of  the  king's  esquires  yearly  at  Christmas 
at  the  great  wardrobe  and  all  other  accustomed  profits.  By  K. 

Feb.  20.  Grant  to  the  king's  servant  Thomas  Sentleger,  esquire  of  the  body,  of 

\^'estlllinste^.  the  custody  of  the  manor  of  Oldebury  with  the  advowson  of  the  church  of 
Oldebury,  co.  Gloucester,  and  all  lordships,  manors,  lands,  rents  and 
services  with  knights'  fees  and  advowsons  which  John  Thorp,  son  of  Ralph 
Thorp,  deceased,  who  is  an  idiot  (fatuus  naturalts),  holds  within  the 
counties  of  Gloucester,  Wilts,  Somerset  and  Cornwall  and  elsewhere  within 
the  realm,  to  hold  during  the  life  of  the  said  John  without  rendering 
anything  to  the  king,  but  finding  a  competent  sustenance  for  the  said 
John.  By  p.8. 

March  2.         Grant  for  life  to  Henry  Abyndon,  one  of  the  clerks  of  the  king's  chapel, 
Westminster,  of  8/.  yearly  from  the  first  day  of  the  reign  from  the  issues  of  the  castle^ 


/  2  EDWARD  IV.— Paut  IL  *0 


1463.  .'  '  Membraiie  25 — cow/.  /    . 

[  manor  or  lordship  of  Hadlegh  alias  Hadlej,  co.  Essex,  in  lien  x)f  a  like 

I  grant  to  him  from  the  issues  of  Hadley  Bee  and  Legh  Bee,  co.  Essex,  by  letters 

patent  of  the  king's  kinsman  Humphrey,  late  duke  of  Gloucester,  confirmed 
by  letters  patent  dated  9  November,  1  Edward  IV.  surrendered.        By  p.s. 

Mandate  in  pursuance  to  the  farmers,  roceivors  or  other  occupiers  of  the 
said  castle,  manor  or  lordship. 

March  1.         Grant  to  Nicholas  Gaynesford  that  he  may  repair  the  castle  of  Odyham, 

Westminster,   the  houses,  mansions  and  bams  of  tlie  manor,  the  lodges  and  enclosures  of 

the  parks  and  a  water-mill  belonging  to  the  manor,  to  the  custody  of  which 

he  was  appointed  to  him  by  letters  patent  dated  3  February,  1  Edward  IV.  for 

i  7  years  from  the  Easter  preceding,  with  the  money  belonging  to -the  king 

f  from  the  farm  of  the  tame,  on  account  of  their  ruinous  condition,  and  to 

cut  down  timber  in  the  woods  of  the  manor  for  that  purpose.  By  p.s. 

Jan.  8.  Grant  to  John  Botiller,  knight,  and  Margaret  his  wife  of  the  custody  of 

Westmioster.  William,  son  and  heir  of  William  Troutbck,  knight,  and  all  his  manors, 
lands  and  possessions  within  the  county  of  Chester  and  elsewhere  within 
the  realm,  from  the  death  of  his  father  during  his  minority,  with  his 
marriage,  and  the  like  during  the  minority  of  the  next  heir,  should  be  die 
a  minor,  and  so  from  heir  to  heir. 

Feb.  23.  Grant  to  Thomas  Ive,  whom  the  king  by  letters  patent  appointed  to  the 

.Westminster,   scrutiny  of   wools  exported  to  foreign  parts,  cf  a  moiety  of   the  wools 

forfeited  for*  being  forced,  clacked,  bearded,  or  cleaned  contrary  to  the 

statutes  and  ordinances,  or  for  any  other  reason.  By  K. 

Aug.  13.         Grant  for  lif^  to  William  Saint  Laurence  of  the  office  of  admiral  of 
Westminster.  Ireland,  with  the  accustomed  fees.  By  p.8# 


Membrane  24. 

Oct.  24.         The  like  to  Francis  de  Mounteferant,  knight,  lord  Duza,  hotp.  in  the 

Westminster,   duchy  of  Aquitaine  (Guienne),  of  40/.  yearly  from  Michaelmas,  1  Edward 

IV.  at  the  receipt  of  the  Exchequer.     [Foedera.']  By  p.s.  [1061.] 

Oct.  24.  Revocation  of  the  protection  with  clause  volumusy  for  one  year,  lately 

Westminster,  granted  by  letters  patent  to  William  Acland  of  Bedyngton,  co.  Surrey, 
'  <  yoman,'  alias  Agelond,  *  husbondman,'  alias  Acgeland,  'jantilman,*  going 

on  tlie  king's  service  in  the  company  of  John  Wood,  esquire,  victualler  of  the 
town  and  castle  of  Calais  and  the  marches  there  in  the  parts  of  Picardy, 
on  the  safe-custo<ly  and  victualling  of  the  same,  because  he  delays  at 
Westminster,  as  William  Hampton  and  Bartholomew  James,  sherifib  of 
Middlesex,  have  certified. 

Sept.  30.        Grant  for  life  to  John  Cobbes  of  an  annuity  of  10/.  from  the  issues  of 

Westminster,  the  subsidy  and  ulnage  of  cloths,  and  half  of  the  forfeitures  of  the  same,  in 

the  county  of  Kent.  By  pjs. 

Sept.  30.         The  like  to  William  Harlakynden  of  a  like  annuity  from  the  same. 
[Westminster.]  By  p.s. 

Sept.  30.        The  like  to  John  Hert  of  an  annuity  of  10  marks  from  the  issues  of  the 
Westminster,  manor  of  Cottesmore,  co.  Rutland.  By  pjs. 

Sept.  30.         The  like  to  William  Haute  of  an  annuity  of  20  marks  from  the  issues  of 
Westminster,  the  hundreds  and  lordships  of  Middelton  and  Merdem,  co.  Kent.       By  p.s. 

Oct.  15.  Licence  for  Elizabeth,   late  the  wife  of  Nicholas  Iwardby,   tenant  in 

'  WestDiinster.  chief,  to  marry  Thomas  Salandyne,  esquire.  By  K. 

^  U    96914.  '  O 


aid  CALENDAR  OF  PATKNT  BOLLS*. 


1462»  Itemih^ne  24— eonf. 

May  1.  tmpeximui  and  confirmation  to  the  prior  and  conT«nt  of  the  house  of 

Wcftmmrter.  gt,  Miohael»  by  Kyngeston  on  Hull,  of  t*e  Carthiisian  order,  of  the 
following  :— 

1.  Letters  patent  dated  18  April,  5  Richard  IL  being  a  grant  to  them 

of  a  tun  of  Gbacou  wine    yearly  at  All  Saints,  in  the   port   of 
Kyngeston  on  Hull. 

2.  A  charter  dated  at  Esthampstede,  1  May,  8  Richard  IL  being  a  grant 

\fO  them,  of  certain    lit^erties  which  the    prior  and    brethren    ef 
Beauvale,  of  the  same  order,  have.    \_Man<i8ttc(m,'\ 

.   For  5  marks  paid  in  the  hanaper.. 

Nov.  I.  Grant  for  life  to  John  ByUey,  chaplain,  of  the  custody  of  the  hospital 

Westminster,  of  St,  John  the  Baptist,  Shrewsbury,  with  all  rights,  formerly  granted  to 

William  Shelve,  chaplain,  by  letters  patent  surrendered.  By  p.s. 

June  5.  Grant  to  Thomas  Gray,  one  of  the  esquires  of  the  body,  and  the  heirs 

W^etInin8ter.   male  of  his  body  of  the  manor  of  Crawden,  co.  Cambridge,  late  of  William 

Tallboys,  knight,  in  the  king's  hands  by  reason  of  an  act  of  forfeiture  in 

Parliament  at  Westminster,  4  November.  By  p.s» 

Oct.  12.         Mandate  to  all  bailiffis  and  others  to  permit  William  Thomson,  chaplain, 

Weftmhwter.   a  native  of  Edynburgh  in  Scotland,  dwelling  at  Herbaldowne  in  England, 

who  has  taken  an  oath  of  fealty,  to  inhabit  the  realm  peaceably  and  enjoy 

his  goods.  '        By  p.s. 

Oct.  20*         Like  mandate  in  favour  of  John  Hill,  ^yoman,*  a  native  of  Aburdene  in 
Westminster.  Scotland,  dwelling  at  London.  By  p.s* 

Membrane  23. 

Sept.  24.  Grant  to  Thomas  Seyntleger,  one  of  the  esquires  of  the  body,  of  the 
IWestmiiiBter.  custody  of  all  lands  late  of  George  Langham,  esquire,  tenant  in  chief, 
during  the  minority  of  Thomas  Langham,  son  and  heir  of  Richard  Langham, 
son  and  heir  of  the  said  George,  during  the  minority  of  the  said  heir^  with 
his  marriage,  subject  to  his  finding  a  competent  sustenance  for  him  and 
supporting  all  charges.  By  K. 

Oct.  1*  Grant  to  John  Spence,  clerk,  of  the  chapel  or  chantry  of  Holy  Cross 

WeBtminster.   within  the  king's  castle  of  Old  Sarum,  co.  Wilts. 

Oct.  2.  Licence  for  the  prior  and  convent  of  Malmesbury  to  elect  an  abbot  in 

We«tmiiuter.   the  place  of  John  Andever,  deceased. 

Oct.  12.         Presentation  of  Richard  Plommer,  chaplain,  to  the  parish  church  of 
Westminster.  St.  Peter,  Berkhamstede,  in  the  diocese  of  Lincoln,  void  by  the  resignation 
of  John  Goddeslond. 

Sept.  30.         Appointment  of  William  Pecche,  knight,  as  sheriff  of  Kent,  with  the 

Westminster.  cuf«tody  of  the  king's  castle  of  Canterbury,  and  grant  to  him  of  40/.  yearly 

from  the  revenues  of  the  county  from  All  Saints  last,  until  he  shall  be 

provided  with  lands  to  that  value  in  tail  male.  By  p.s.  [1053.] 

Oct.  11.  Grant  for  life  to  William  Milford  of  the  manor  of  Sevenhampton  Denys, 

Westminster,  co.  Somerset,  with  courts  leet  and  all  other  appurtenances,  not  exceeding 
the  value  of  6/.  yearly,  rendering  to  the  king  20^.  yearly,  in  lieu  of  the 
appointment  of  him  and  William  Brownyng  to  the  custody  of  the  said 
manor  and  of  all  lands  late  of  Nicholas  Wodegrave  in  ChiUesworthy  and 
lands  in  le  Forde  in  the  parish  of  Ippilpen,  co.  Devon,  for  7  years  from  the 
Easter  preceding,  by  letters  patent  dated  2  July,  1  Edward  IV.  surrendered. 

By  p.s. 

Sept.  25.         Grant  to  the  king's  servitor  Philip  Morgan,  for  his  gcod  service  to  the 

Westminster,  king's  father  and  the  king,  of  the  custody  of  all  lands,  late  of  William 

Walsale  of  the  county  of  Leicester^  tenant-in-chiefy  during  the  minority  of 


$  EDWARD  IV.— Part  It  fill 


1462.  Membrane  2S'-eottt. 

Bobert  his  son  and  heir,  ivith  the  marriage  of  the  latter,  with  the  like 
(luring  the  minority  of  the  next  heir,  should  he  die  a  minor,  and  so  from 
heir  to  heir.  Byp.8. 

Jul  J  18.  Bevocation  of  the  protection  with  dAUBevolumus,  for  one  year,  granted  12 

Westmintter.  July  last  by  letters  patent  to  Roger  Motley  of  Bikall,  co  York,  *yoman,* 
going  on  the  king's  service  in  the  company  of  the  king's  kinsman  Richard, 
earl  of  Warwick,  chamberlain  of  England  and  capt4dn  of  the  town  and 
castle  of  Gahus  and  the  marches  there,  on  the  defence  of  the  same,  because 
he  delajH  at  Westminster  and  elsewhere  in  the  county  of  Middlesex,  as 
John  Lokke  and  George  Ireland,  sheriffs  of  Middlesex,  have  certified. 

•Tune  20.         iGrraut  for  life  to  the  king's  servant  Thomas  Lane  of  the  office  of  warrener 

Wefftminster.  or  the  custody  of  the  wan^en  within  the  king's  lordship  of  Swafham,  co. 

Noiiolk,  with  wages  of  2d.  daily  from  the  issues  of  the  lordship.       By  p^s. 

Oct.  16.  The  like  to  the  king's  servant  Richard  Patyne,  for  his  good  service  to 

Wettminster.  the  king's  father,  and  the  king,  of  the  office  of  porter  and  gaoler  of  the 

king's  castle  of  Gilford,  co.  Surrey,  with  the  accustomed  fees  and  profits 

at  the  hands  of  the  sheriff.  By  p.8. 

Oct.  24.  Grant  to  Richard  Lee,  grocer  and  alderman  and  late  mayor  of  London, 

WestmiiiBter.  and  his  heirs  and  assigns  of  the  advowson  of  the  parish  church  of  St. 

Stephen  in  the  ward  of  Walbroke,  Loudon,  late  of  Robert  Whityngham,  in 

the  king's  hands  by  his  forfeiture  by  reason  of  an  act  in  the  last  Parliament. 

ByK. 

Oct*  20.  Pardon  to  Richard  Beleryng  of  Folsbam,  co.  Norfolk, '  husbondman,'  of 
Westminster,  his  outlawry  in  the  county  of  Middlesex  for  not  appearing  before  the 
justioea  of-  the  Bench  to  satiny  the  king  of  his  ransom  for  not  bringing 
William  Fraunceys  late  of  Coston,  co.  Norfolk, '  yoman,'  before  John  Prysot 
and  his  fellows,  justices  of  the  Bench  of  the  late  king,  to  answer  William 
BusseU,  citizen  «nd  draper  of  London,  touching  a  plea  of  debt,  as  he  made 
mainprise  to  do ;  he  having  surrendered  1o  the  Flete  prison,  as  Robert 
Danby,  chief  justice  of  the  Bench,  has  certified. 

.  Sept.  10.        Grant  for  life  to  Richard  Lannargh  of  the  office  of  bailiff  of  the  king's 

Westmintter.  manor  -^  Helston  in  Kyrier,  co.    Cornwall,  belonging  to   the  dachy  of 

Cornwall,  with  the  accustomed  fees  from  the  issues  of  the  manor.      By  p.s. 

Membrane  22. 

Sept.  6.  Commission  to  John  Yong,  master  of  a  ship  called  le  Marie  of  London, 

Westminster,  and  John  Samwell,  QQaster  of  a  ship  called  le  Trinite  of  London,  to  take 
mariners  for  those  ships  and  a  mast  for  le  Marie  for  service  against  the 
king's  enemies. 

Aug.  26.         Grant  to  William  Herbert,  king's  knight,  of  the  custody  of  all  manorsp 

W«ftmfaister.  lands  and  possessions,  late  of  Nicholas  Iwardby,  tenant  in  chief,  ddring  the 

minority  of  John  his  son  and  heir,  to  hold  with  all  issues  from  the  same, 

with  the  marriage  of  the  heir,  finding  reasonable  sustenance  for  him  and 

sustaining  the  houses,  enclosures  and  buildings.  By  p.g« 

Sept.  15.         Grant,  during  pleasure,  to  John  Huet  and  John  Chambre,  of  the  office 

Wettmtnster.  of  tronage  and  peeage  in  the  port  of  Bishop's  Lynne  and  ports  and  places 

adjacent,  receiving  the  accustomed  fees.  By  bill  of  treasurer. 

Oct.  17.  Revocation  of  the  protection  with  clause  volumuHy  for  one  year,  granted  16 
Wettminster.  July  by  letters  patent  to  John  Tryvet,late  of  Honyton,  co.  Devon,  ^yonuui/ 
alias  Treret,  merehant^  alias  Trevette,  ^  chapman,'  to  stay  on  the  king's 
service  in  the  company  of  Walter  Blount,  knight,  treasurer  of  the  town  of 
Calais,  for  the  safe  custody,  defence  and  victualling  of  the  town  and  marches, 
because  he  delays  at  Yevelchestre  and  elsewhere  in  the  county  of  Somerset, 
as  llioiBai  Herbert,  esquire,  sheriff,  has  certified. 

o2 


^2  CALENDAR  OP  PATENT  ROLLS* 


14.62.  Membrane  22 — cont. 

.    Oct.  19.  Grant  for  life  to  Richard  Brown  of  the  office  of  the  parkership  of 

Westminster.  Hungcrford  Fareley,  with  the  accustomed  fees.  Bj  p.8. 

Oct.  20.  Grant  to  Eh'zabeth  the  wife  of  the  king's  kinsman  John,  duke  of 

Westminster.  Norfolk,  a  minor  and  in  the  kin^s  custody,  that  during  his  minority  she 
may  have  and  enjoy  all  the  rents,  revenues  and  profits  of  the  lordships  and 
manors  wherein  certain  lawful  grants  and  estates  were  made  to  them  in 
tail  for  her  jointure  at  the  time  of  the  solemnisation  of  their  espousals,  vis., 
the  manora  or  lordships  of  Bosam,  Mechyng  and  Waschynton,  co.  Sussex, 
to  the  yearly  value  of  100/.,  Segrave,  co.  Leicester,  to  the  yearly  value  of 
20  marks,  Stodes.lon  and  Kyngeswode,  co.  Salop,  to  the  yearly  value  of 
20  markp,  Fenystanton  and  Hylton,  co.  Huntingdon,  to  the  yearly  value 
of  10/.,  Hynton,  co.  Cambridge,  to  tlie  yearly  value  of  20/.,  and  Weston,  co. 
Hertford,  to  the  yearly  value  of  40  marks.  By  p.8. 

Oct.  23.  General  pardon  to  John  Laurence  alias  Bady.  By  p.8. 

Westminster. 

Aug.  1.  Grant   for  life,  in  consideration  of  their  charges  and  perils  incurred  in 

Westminster,  ihe  king's  conflicts  and  battles,  to  the  king's  servants  John  Fortescu  and 
William  Chichcly,  esquires,  of  the  manors  of  Parkham  and  Cokiswall,  co. 
Devon,  and  all  lands  and  possessions  in  Parkham,  Cokyswall,  Wydefeld, 
Made  ford,  Yoland,  Folle  with  Melden,  Yoldiche,  Estbeweley,  Boryngton, 
Bishop's  Nymet  and  Little  Thoryngton,  co.  Devon,  late  of  Baldwin  Fufford, 
knight,  the  manor  and  lordship  of  Brene,  co.  Wilts,  and  all  lands  and 
possessions  in  Brene  late  of  James,  late  earl  of  Wiltshire,  and  all  lands,  and 
possessions  in  Trobrigge,  co.  Wilts,  late  of  John  Fortescu,  knight,  in  the 
king's  hands  by  reason  of  an  act  of  forfeiture  in  Parliament  at  Westminster, 
4  November,  with  knights'  fees,  advowsons,  wards,  marriages,  reliefs,  courts 
leet,  views  of  frank  pledge,  parks,  warrens,  fisheries  and  all  other  profits,  to 
the  yearly  value  of  46/.  By  p.s. 

Oct.  26.  Release  to  the  king's  tenants  of  the  town  of  Eyngesclyf,  co.  Northampton, 

Westminster,  for  two  years  from  Michaelmas  last  of  the  farm  of  40/.  yearly  due  to  the 

king,  on  account  of  the  losses  they  have  sustained'of  divers  goods  and  houses 

to  the  number  of  100  and  more  by  fire.  By  p.s. 

Sei)t.  12.  Mandate  to  all  bailiffs  and  others  to  permit  Simon  Thomson,  'tailcur,'  a 

Westminster,  native  of  Aburdene  in  Scotland,  dwelling  at  Shordyche  in  England,  who  has 
taken  an  oath  of  fealty,  to  inhabit  the  realm  peaceably  and  enjoy  his  good<i. 

By  p.8. 

MSMBRANB  21. 

Sept.  10.        Protection,  for  three  years,  for  Mary  de  Bedford,  lady  de  la  Sparre,  and 
Westminster,   her  servants,  lands  and  possessions.  By  K. 

July  12.         General  pardon  to  John  Tylney  of  the  parish  of  Grantham,  co.  Lincolnv 
Westminster,  By  K. 

Sept.  15.     '    The  like  to  Oliver  Xyng,  late  of  Cambridge,  clerk,  of  all  offences  com- 
Westminster.  mitted  by  him  before  3  May  last.  By  K. 

Aug.  21.         Grant  for  life  to  John  Sambroke  of  the  office  of  one  of  the  king's  ser- 

Westminster.  jeants  at  arms,  with  wag^es  of   I2d,  daily  from  the  fee  farm  of  the'  city  of 

Hereford,  and  a  livery  of  the  suit  of  the  esquires  of  the  household  yearly  at 

Christmas  at  the  great  wardrobe.  By  p.8. 

Sept.  20.  Grant  to  the  king's  brother  George,  duke  of  Clarence,  and  the  heirs  of 
Westminster,  his  body,  of  the  county,  honour  and  lordship  of  Richemond,  which  Edmund 
Hadham,  late  carl  of  Richemond,  lately  had  of  the  grant  of  Henry  Y.I.,  with 
all  castles,  towns,  lordships,  manors,  lands,  courts,  knights'  fees,  advowsons, 
liberties,  reliefs  and  other  profits  belonging  to  the  same  in  the  counties  of 
Lincoln,  York,  Westmoreland,  Gloucester,  Buckingham,  Cambridge,  Essex, 
Kent,  Dorset,  Norfolk,   London   and  elsewhere,  and   the  reversion  of  all 


2  EDWARD  IV.- Part  II.  2li 


1462.  Membrane  21 — cont. 

castles,  lordships,  lands  and  possessions,  parcel  of  the  same,  which  Richard 
Wydevill,  knight,  and  Jaquetta  his  wife,  duchess  of  Bedford,  hold  for  her 
life,  on  her  death,  and  the  reversions  in  like  manner  of  all  other  parcels  of 
the  same,  an^  all  issues  from  Easter  last ;  and  also  the  manors  and  lordships 
of  Spofford  and  Aylneham,  co.  York,  and  the  castle,  manor  and  lordship  of 
Prudhowe,  co.  Northumberland,  and  all  lands  and  tenements  in  the  parishes 
of  St.  Katharine  Colman  and  St.  Anne's  by  Aldrichegate,  London,  late  of 
Henry  Percy,  late  earl  of  Northumberland,  with  knights'  fees,  advowsons, 
wards,  marriages,  relieis,  escheats,  parks,  warrens,  forests,  chaces,  fisheries, 
fairs,  markets,  views  of  frank  pledge,  courts  leet,  bondmen,  liberties  and  all 
other  appurtenances,  in  the  king's  hands  by  reason  of  an  act  of  forfeiture 
by  authority  of  Parliament  at  Westminster,  4  November,  and  all  issues 
from  the  same  from  Michaelmas,  1  £()ward  IV.  By  £• 

Membrane  20. 

Sept.  16.        Licence  for  life  for  Robert  Peete  to  ship  '  thrumes,'  stone  thrumes,  *  pooks  * 

Westminster,  and  *  vagen  thrumes '  in  the  ports  of  London,  Ipswich,  Yermouth,  Kyngeston 

on  Hull,  Boston  and  Lynne  and  places  and  creeks  adjacent  and  .take  them 

without  the  realm  to  foreign  piirts  of  the  king's  friendship.  By  K. 

Sept.  15.  Grant  for  life  to  the  king's  servant  William  Sterlyng  of  the  subsidy  and 
Westminster,  ulnage  of  cloths  within  the  counties  of  Surrey  and  Sussex,  pursuant  to  the 
ordinances  in  the  Great  Council  of  Edward  III.  at  Westminster  and  in 
Parliament  in  17  Richard  II.  and  7  Henry  lY.  and  the  statute  in  Par- 
liament, 11  Henry  IV.  with  a  moiety  of  the  forfeitures  and  all  other 
profits,  rendering  to  the  king  20  marks  yearly. 

Sept.  15.         Grant  for  life  to  Thomas  Mongomery,  king's  knight,  one  of  the  king's 
.  Westminster,  sewers  (dapiscidorum)  of  the  office  of  keeper  of  the  exchange  and  mint 

within  the  Tower  of  London  and  the  custody  of  the  coinages  of  gold  and 
silver  within  the  realm,  receiving  the  accustomed  wages  as  in  the  last  year 
of  Edward  lU.  and  the  first  of  Richard  II.  from  the  issues  of  the  same,  as 
granted  during  good  behaviour  to  Thomas  Mongomery,  esquire,  by  lettei's 
patent  dated  15  June,  1  Edward  I  ST.  surrendered.  By  K. 

Oct.  24.  Exemption  for  life  of  John  Beauchamp,  knight,  lord  of  Beauchamp,  on 
Westminster,  account  of  his  old  age  and  debility,  from  attendance  in  council  or  Parlia- 
ment, and  from  being  made  collector,  assessor  or  taxer  of  tenths,  fiftecutns 
or  other  subsidy,  commissioner,  justice  of  the  peace,  constable,  bailiff  or 
minister  of  the  king,  or  trier,  arrayer,  musterer  or  leader  of  men  at  arms, 
archers  or  hobelers.  By  p.s, 

Dec  10.         Grant  for  life  to  John  IngoUlcsby  of  a  place  with  two  tenements  apper- 

Westminster,  taining  in  the  parish  of  St.  Michael's  in  Wodestrete  in  the  wai'd  of  Crepul- 

gate,  London,  of  the  yearly  value  of  5  marks,  late  of  William,  late  lord 

Beaumond,  and  in  the  king's  hands  by  reason  of  an  act  in  Parliament  at 

Westminster,  4  November,  1  Edward  IV.  By  p.s. 

Sept.  15.        The  like  to  William  Store  of  a  place  called  <  Comen  Bakchous '  in  the 
Westminster,  to^rn  of  Alnenyk,  with  all  fees  imd  profits.  By  K.  by  word  of  moullu 

Sept.  15.        The  like  to  William  Ilelperby  of  a  yearly  rent  of  7/.  I5s.  from  the  fee 

Westminster,   f urm  of  the  town  of  Scardeburgh,  the  manor  of  Waldegrave  and  60  acres  of 

land.  By  p.s. 

Aug.  12.         The  like  to  the  king's  servant  Thomas  Seyntleger  of  the  office  of  keeper 
Westminster,  of  Ghestonwode  within  the  county  of  Kent,  with  the  accustomed  fees. 

By  p.s. 

Membrane  19. 

« 

Aug.  K  The  like  to  the  king's  servitor  Edmund  Tankard,  yeoman  in  the  kind's 

« We^iainster.  privy  kitcheoi  of  the  custody  of  the  laud  lying  between  the  chapel  of  Si« 


S14  CALEKDAR  OF  PATENT  ROttS. 


1462«  '^         Membrane  19 — conU 

^  "Miary  Konsivale  near  Chnryng  Crosae  aad  the  place  iof  the  archbishop  of 
York  of  old  time  called  '  kyng  of  Soottis  ground '  with  the  hermitage  of  St. 
Katharine  upon  it,  with  all  profits.  By  p.8.  [1006.] 

Sept.  26^        Grant  to  the  king's  brother  George,  doke  of  Clarence^  in  enlart^ement  of 

Westminster,  a  grant  to  him  by  letters  patent  dated  10  August  ^p.  i'98),  of  the  issues  of 

all  the  manors,  lordships  and   other  possessions  tlierdn  specified  from 

Michaelmas  last  to  that  date.  By  R. 

June  20.        Grant  for  life  to  Thomas  Laiie  and  Thomas  Jolyf,  for  their  good  service 

Westminster,  to  the  klng*s  father  and  other  kinsmen  of  the  king,  of  the  office  of  bailiff  of 

the  liberty  and  franchises  of  the  honour  of  Richmond  in  the  counties  of 

Norfolk  and  Suffolk,  with  the  accustomed  fees.  By  K. 

July  12.  The  like  to  John  Dode  of  the  ofiice  of  bailiif  of  Stoke  under  Hampden, 

iTorthampton.  co.  Somerset,  with  the  accustomed  fees.  By  p.s. 

Oct.  20.  The  like  to  Richard  Broun  of  the  office  of  bailiff  of  the  king's  lordship 

Westminster,  of  Hungerford  Farley,  co.  Somerset,  with  wages  of  2d,  daily  and  all.profits 

in  the  king's  hands  by  forfeiture.  '      .By  p.s. 

Oct.  26.  The  like  to  Henry  Muchegode,  clerk  of  the  king's  stable,  from  Michael- 

Westminster,  mas  last  of  an  annuity  of  6  marks  due  to  the  king  from  the  abbot  and 
.    ^^        couTenC  of  Missenden,  ir\  the  same  manner  as  John.  Hampden  had  Ihesame. 

"^  .      ;       .        By)p,8.  [1062.] 

Oct  12.  The  like  to  the  king's  brother  Bi(diard,'dBke  of  Gloucester,  of  the  office 

Wtstvunster.  of  admiral  of  England,  Ireland,  and  Aquitaine,  with  %[\  accustomed  profits 

and  powers,  provided  that  he  have  no  cognisance  of  affairs  within  the  counties 

or  of  wreck  of  sea.   He  is  to  have  cognisance  of  death  and  maiming  however 

^^  committed  in  great  ships  in  the  middle  of  the  great  rivers,  but  only  in  the 

ports  of  those  near  the  sea,  '  By  K. 


Mbmbranb  18. 


Oct.  29. 

Westminster 


Grant  to  John  Laweley  of  the  office  of  the  marshalship  of  the  Exchequer 
.   during  the  minoi*ity  of  John,  duke  of  Norfolk,  with  the  accustomed  fees. 

By  p.s. 

Nov.  3.  Pardon  to  Vincent  Hall,  late  of  St.  John's  street  without  the  bars  of 

Westminster.   Westsmy  thefeld,  London,  co.  Middlesex,  *  baker'  and  *  brewer,'  of  all  felonies, 

'  trespasses  and  crimes  of  which  he  was  attainted  or  convicted,  and  the 

abjuration  which  he  made  by  reason  of  the  same  and  his  subsequent  entry 

into  slay  within  the  realm.  By  p.s. 

Oct.  29.  Signification  to  W.  bishop  of  Winchester,  of  the  royal  assent  to  the 

Westminster,  election  of  Thomas  Robis,  a  brother  of  the  church  of  St,  Denis  by 
Suthampton,  of  the  order  of  St.  Augustine,  as  prior  df  that  place. 

Dec.  1*  Pardon  to  the  mayor  and  commonalty  of  the  city  of  Corke  in  Ireland, 

Bisham.  of  the  fee  farm  of  80  marks  which  they  used  to  pay  for  the  1 1  parish 
churches  belou«;ing  to  the  city  with  the  suburbs  within  a  space  of  a 
mile,  which  have  been  wasted  and  destroyed  by  the  rebels  for  the  past 
50  years,  as  they  obtained  a  like  pardon  from  the  king's  fother  when  he 
was  last  in  those  parts,  and  grant  to  them  of  the  coeket  of  the  city  with  the 
fee  of  the  same  in  augment^^tion  of  the  construction  of  the  walls  until  they 
/  may  be  able  to  go  freely  for  a  mile  outside  the  walls.  By  p.s. 

Nov.  4.  Appointment,  during  pleasure,  of  John  Ingoldesby  as  a  baron  of  the 

Westminster.  Exchequer  in  the  place  of  ^^ohn  Holmcj  receiving  the  aeoustomed  fees. 

By  p.s, 

Dec.  18.  Mandate  to  all  bailiffs  and  others  to  permit  John  Beverley,  '  bocher, 

Westminster,  a  native  of  Arbrothc  in  Scotland,  dwelling  at  Feversham,  co.  Kent,  who 
has  taken  an  oath  of  fealty,  to  inhabit  the  realm  peaceably  and  enjoy  hia 
goods.  .   ,      .  /....,  '^7.P*^ 


2  fibWABD  iV^tABT  IL  6l8 


1462*  Membrane  18 — cont. 

Dec.  L'O.         Grant  for  life  to  the  kind's  servitor  Thomas  Prout,  esquire,  of   the 

MTestminater.  offices  of  steward  of  the  king's  lordship  of  Meer,  co.  Wilts,  and  parker 

there,  with  herbage  and  pannage  and  all  accustomed  fees.  By  p.s. 

Sept.  30.        The  like  to  John  Alday  of  an  annuity  of  10/.  which  Mary,  sometime  the 

Westiuiuster.  wife  of  John  Moulton,  used  to  render  to  the  alien  abbot  of  Langennyth  for 

a  tenement  in  Somercotes  and  Saltfletby,  co.  Lincoln.  By  p.8. 

Mandate  in  pursuance  to  the  fiirmers,  bailiffs,  and  other  occupiers  of  the 
same. 

Grant  for  life  to  Thomas  Diggis  of  an  annuity  of  20  marks  from  the 
issues  of  the  manors  of  Tuderley  and  Lockerley,  co.  Soudiampton.    By  p.s« 

Mandate  in  pursuance  to  the  farmers,  bailiffs  and  other  occupiers  of  the 
same. 

Sept.  30.        Grant  for  life  to  John  Dyggys  of  an  annuity  of  20  marks  from  the  issues 
Westminster,  of  the  hundreds  and  lordships  of  Middelton  and  Merden,  co,  Kent. 

By  p.8« 
Mandate  in  pursuance  to  the  farmers,  bailiffs  and  other  occupiers  of  the 
same. 

Sept.  30.        Grant  for  life  to  John  Isaak  of  an  annuity  of  10/.  from  the  issues  of  the 
Westmicster.  same.  By  p.s. 

Mandate  in  pursuance  to  the  farmers,  bailiffs,  and  other  occupiers  of  the 
same. 

Dec.  28.         General  pardon  to  Philip  Bermyngham  of  Dublin, '  gentilman,'  of  all 
Westminster,  offences  committed  by  him  in  England  and  Ireland  before  this  date.   By  p.s. 

Dec.  28.  Grant  to  John  f^ogge,  knight,  treasurer  of  the  king's  household,  John 
Westminster.  Scott,  knight,  controller  of  the  same,  and  Thomas  Colt  of  the  custody  of 
the  temporalities  of  the  bishopric  of  Durham,  so  long  as  they  remain  in 
the  king's  hands,  rendering  a  due  account  at  the  exchequer  of  the  bishopric 
before  the  king's  auditors,  with  power  to  appoint  justices,  chancellor, 
sheriff,  escheator,  and  other  officers.  By  p.8. 

1463. 

Jan.  16.         Grant  to  the  king's  kinsman  Bichard,  earl  of  Warwick,  and  Walter 

Westminster.   Scoll,  knight,  of  the  presentation  to  the  deanery  of  Walyngford  at  its  next 

voidance.  By  p.s. 

Jan.  26.  Grant  to  Walter  Wrottesley,  king's  knight,  and  the  heirs  male  of  his 

Westminster,  body  of  the  manors  of  Bamsham  and  Penpole,  co.  Dorset,  in  the  king's 
hands  by  the  death  of  his  kinsman  William  Neville,  earl  of  Kent,  not 
exceeding  the  value  of  50/.  yearly,  with  knight's  fees,  advowsons,  parks, 
warrens,  woods,  courts  leet,  views  of  frank  pledge,  liberties,  franchises  and 
all  other  appurtenances,  from  the  death  of  the  said  earl.  By  p.s. 

1462. 

Dec.  9.  Licence  for  the  king's  kinsman  Richard,  earl  of  Warwick  and  Salisbury, 

Westminster,  to  enter  freely  into  all  castles,  lordships,  manors,  lands,  and  other  possessions 

descending  to  him  on  the  death  of  the  king's  kinswoman  Alesia,  countess  of 

Salisbury.  By  p.s. 

1463. 

Jan«  31.  Grant  for  life  to  the  king's  sei'vant  John  Ifongej  yeoman  of  the  crown^ 

Westminster,  of  the  manors  or  lordships  of  Landehilpe  and  Le  Durant,  co.  Cornwall,  and 
all  lands,  rents^  services,  knights'  fees,  advowsons,  courts  leet,  views  of 
frank  pledge,  warrens  and  other  liberties  belonging  to  the  same,  late  of 
Thomas,  eail  of  Devon,  attainted  by  authority  of  Parliament,  and  in  the 
king's  hands  by  his  forfeiture,  to  hold  by  fealty  only.  By  p.s« 

Feb.  4.  Pardon  to  Thomas  Surteys,  esquire,  of  all  treasons,  murders  and  feloniea 

Westniiuter.  committed  by  him  before  1  December  last.  By  p.B« 


2l6  CALENDAR  OF  PATENT  ROLLS. 


1462.  MSUBRANS   17.  ' 

•  Aug.  IL  Grant  in  frank  almoin  to  Thomas  Buxhale,  king's  chaplain^  tnastet*  of 
Westminster,  the  king's  college  of  Fodrynghey  of  a  master,  12  chaplains,  8  clerks,  and 
13  choristers,  lately  founded  for  the  good  estate  of  the  king  and  Cecily  his 
mother,  and  for  their  souls  after  death,  and  the  soul  of  the  king's  father 
Richaj*d,  late  duke  of  York,  heir  of  the  kingdoms  of  England  and  France, 
and  his  fellows  and  successors,  of  the  alien  priory  and  manor  of  Bekford 
with  its  appurtenances  in  the  counties  of  Gloucester  and  Lincoln,  the  limds 
of  Asshton  on  Caraunt,  co.  Gloucester,  some  time  parcel  of  the  alien  priory  of 
Baylbek,  and  the  alien  manors  of  Bryston  alias  Bryxston  knd  Charleton, 
CO.  Wilts,  and  Willesford,  cos.  Lincoln  and  Northampton,  with  all  lands  > 
rents,  services,  knights'  fees,  advowsons  and  memhers  and  appurtenances, 
from  the  Annunciation,  2  Edward  IV.  By  p.s. 

Oct.  26.  Protection,  during  the  life  of  the  king,  for  the  ahbess  and  convent  of  the 

Westminster,  monastery  of  St.  Saviour  and  St.  Mary  and  St.  Bridget,  Syon,  co.  Middle- 
sex, of  the  order  oi  St.  Augustine,  and  their  lands  and  possessions.  They 
shall  not  be  distrained  upon  by  purveyoi*s  or  clerks  of  works,  and  their 
stone-cutters,  masons,  carpenters,  smiths,  sawyers,  plumbers,  tilers,  glaziers, 
plasterers,  joiners  and  other  workmen  and  timber,  stone,  lead,  tiles  and 
other  necessaries  for  the  construction  of  the  monastery  shall  not  be  taken  ; 
and  they  shall  have  free  power  of  carriage  by  all  highways  in  the  king's 
warren  called  '  le  Couyngyerd '  within  his  manor  of  Shene  to  and  from  the 
wharf  of  le  *  Bricke  Coste  '  and  the  river  Thames.  By  K. 

Nov.  2.  Pardon  to  Elizabeth,  the  abbess  of  the  said  monastery,  called  abbess  of 

Westminster.  Syon,  occupier  (pccupatrici)  of  the  alien  abbey  of  ,Seez  and  itg  lands  and 
possessions  in  England,  and  of  the  abbey  of  Fecamp  in  Normandy  with  all 
its  manors,  lands  and  other  possessions,  and  the  convent  of  that  place  of  all 
fines,  issues,  amercements,  reliefs,  scutages,  debts,  accounts  and  forfeitures 
due  to  the  king  and  all  offences,  trespasses  and  contempts  and  all  actions. 

ByK. 

Oct.  28.  Pardon  to  Thomas  Hege  of  Colchestre,  co.  Essex,  ^  gentilman,'  and  Ellen 
Westminster,  his  wife  of  their  outlawry  and  waiver  in  the  county  of  Norfolk  for  not 
appearing  before  the  justices  of  the  Bench  to  satisfy  John  Jenn^y  of  40*. 
which  he  recovered  against  thorn  before  the  justices  of  the  late  king  at 
Westminster,  aud  IS*-.  4(/.  damages  ;  they  having  surrendered  to  the  Flete 
prison  and  satisfied  him,  as  Robert  Danby,  chief  justice,  has  certified. 

Sept.  30.         Grant  for  life  to  Thomas  Cotes  of  an  annuity  of  10/.  from  the  issues  of 
Westminster,   the  manors  of  Tuderley  and  Lokerley,  co.  Southumptou.  By  p:8. 

Sept.  27.         Revocation  of  the  protection  with  clause  volumus^  for  one  year,  lately  granted 

Westminster,  by  letters  patent  to  William  Cogan,  citizen  and  mercer  of  London,  to  go  on 

the  king's  service  in  the  company  of  the  king's  kinsman  Bichard,  earl  of 

Warwick,  captain  of  the  town  and  castle  of  Calais,  for  the  safe  custody  of 

the  same,  on  ceitiHcate  by  the  sheriff  that  he  delays  in  London.     '      -  * 

Oct.  31.  Grant  for   life  to  Thomas  Wath,  esquire,  of  the  manor  of  Sutton  on 

Westminster.  Trent,  co.  Nottingham,  and  all  lauds  in  Sutton,  late  of  Thomas  Roos, 
knight,  late  lord  of  lloos,  in  the  king's  hands  by  reason  of  an  act  in 
Parliament  at  AVcst minster,  4  November,  1  Edward  IV.  extended  at  the 
value  of  20  marks  yeai'ly,  with  all  fees,  wards,  reliefs,  escheats,  homages, 
iients,  suits  of  courts  and  sei-vices,  and  all  issues  of  the  same  from  the  said 
4  November,  to  hold  by  fealty  only.  •       By  p.s. 


MSMBRANB  16. 

Oct.  27.        Appointment,  during  pleasure,  of  William  Herbcrd  as  supervisor  of  the 

Westminster,   scrutiny  in  the  port  of  liiistol  and  ports  aud  places  adjticent,  receiving  the 

accustomed  fees.    .  By  bill  of  the  treasurer^ 


2  EDWARD  IV.— r^^RTlL  21.7 


l4,g3.  Membrane  16 — ami* 

Jan«  26.  Grant  to  Walter  Wrottesley,  king's  knight,  aud  the  heirs  male  of  his  body, 

Westminster,  of  two  pai'ts  of  the  manors  or  lordships  of  Glynte,  Hondesworth  and  Mere, 
CO.  Stafford,  lately  granted  in  tail  to  Fulk  Stafford,  esquire,  now  deceased, 
by  letters  patent,  aud  tho  reversion  of  the  third  part  of  the  same  on  the 
death  of  Margaret,  late  the  wife  of  the  said  Fulk,  with  advowsons,  knights' 
fees,  parks,  warrens,  courts  leet,  views  of  frank  pledge,  liberties  and  ull 
other  appurtenances.  By  p.s. 

1462. 

Nov.  3.  Grant  for  life  to  Thomas  Ililles  of  100*.  yearly  from  the  issues  of  tlio 

Westminster,  subsidy  and  uluage  of  cloths,  and  a  moiety  of  the  forfeitures  of  the  same  in 

the  city  of  London.  By  p.s. 

Mandate  in  pursuance  to  the  farmers,  receivers  aud  other  occupiers  of 
the  same. 

1463. 

Feb.  5.  Revocation  of  the  protection  with  clause  volumusy  for  one  year,  granted  20 

Westraiustcr.  October  by  letters  patent  to  John  Frankelyn  of  Haunos,  co.  Bedford, 
'  gentilman'  alius  'yoman,-  to  stay  in  the  parts  of  Picardy  on  the  king's 
service  in  the  company  of  John  Woode,  esquire,  victualler  of  the  town  and 
marches  of  Calais,  on  the  safe  custody,  defence  and  victutUling  of  the  castle, 
town  and  marches,  because  he  delays  in  Westminster  on  his  own  business, 
as  William  Hampton  and  Bartholomew  JameF,  sheriffs  of  Middlesex,  have 
certified. 

1462. 

Nov.  3.  Grant  for  life  to  William  Brent  of  an  annuity  of  10  marks  from  the  fee 

Westminster,  farm  of  the  town  of  Kyngeston  on  Thames,  co.  Surrey.  By  p.s. 

Mandate  in  pursuance  to  the  men  or  bailiffs  of  the  towu. 

Sept  30.        Grant  for  life  to  Edward  Mille  of  an  annuity  of  10/.  from  the  issues  of 
Wcstmmster.  the  hundreds  and  lordships  of  Middelton  and  Merden,  co.  Kent.-       By  p.s. 

Mandate  in  pursuance  to  the  farmers,  bailiffs  and  other  occupiers  of  the 
same. 

1463. 

Feb.  6.  Pardon  to  John  Grevile,  esquire,  sheriff  of  Warwick  and  Leicester,  for 

Westminster,  the  escapes  of  Nicholas  Basset  and  Roger  Bygge  from  Warwick  gaol  out  of 

his  custody.  By  p.s. 

Grant  to  the  king's  kinsman  John,  earl  of  Worcester,  William  Hastynges, 
knight,  king's  chamberlain,  John  Fogge,  knight,  treasurer,  and  John  Scot, 
knight,  controller  of  the  household,  and  Thomas  Colt  of  the  custody  of  all 
castles,  manors,  lordships,  lands,  tenements  and  advowsons  in  the  king's 
hands  by  reason  of  the  minority  of  any  tenants  in  fee,  with  their  marriage, 
and  of  the  temporalities  of  all  archbii^opricsy  bishoprics  and  abbeys  during 
voidance,  for  three  years  from  Christmas  last.  They  are  to  apply  tho 
issues  to  the  expenses  of  the  king's  household,  rendering  an  account  yearly 
at  the  Exchequer  and  sustaining  all  charges.  By  p.s. 

March  3.  Grant  for  life  to  Thomas  Oxney  of  the  office  of  controller  of  tho 
Westminster,  havenr}'  (haoenarie)  and  collector  of  the  new  custom  within  the  county  of 
Cornwall  from  2  March,  1  Edward  IV.  receiving  such  fees  as  were 
allowed  to  John  Fortes  in  the  year  20  Edward  111.  from  the  issues  of  the 
duchy  of  Cornwall ;  in  lieu  of  a  grant  to  him  of  the  office  of  controller  of 
coket  and  wreck  of  sea  within  the  counties  of  Cornwall  and  Devon  by 
letters  patent  dated  2  March,  1  Edward  IV.  surrendered.  By  p.8« 

1462. 

Nov.  4.  Grant  in  frauk  almoin  to  William  Fallam,  the  proctor,  and  the  schoULrs 

Westminster,  of  the  college  called  •  Goddishoas'  in  the  university  of  Cambridge,  founded 

by  Henry  VI.  on  16  April,  2(5  Henry  VI.  at  the  request  of  William  Bingham, 

late  parson  of  tho  church  of  St.  John  Zakarie^  Li^doD,  deceaied,  of  a  rent  or 


218  CALENDAR  OF  PATENT  ROLLI^. 


1462.  Membrane  IQ-^otU. 

ancient  impost  of  10  marks  jearlj,  whioh  the  prior  of  the  alien  priory  of  Monne- 
mouthe  in  the  marches  of  Wales  used  to  paj  to  the  chief  lord  of  the  priory 
beyond  seas,  a  yeai*ly  rent  of  409.  which  the  prior  and  convent  of  the  alien 
priory  of  Tottcneys,  co.  Devon,  used  to  pay  to  the  chief  lord  of  the  priory 
beyond  seas,  a  yearly  rent  of  100«.  which  the  prior  of  Newstede  on  Ancolm 
CO.  Lincoln,  used  to  pay  to  the  abbot  and  convent  of  Longvillers  in  France, 
a  yearly  rent  of  10  marks  which  the  abbot  and  convent  of  Sawtre  used  to 
pay  to  the  alien  abbot  of  Bon  Kepos  {de  Bona  Requie)  with  50  marks  for 
the  churches  of  Foulbourne  and  Uon^giiam  alia$  Honyngton,  the  alien 
priory  of  Cars  well  alias  Carsewell  in  the  lordship  of  Ewi*as  Lacy  in  North 
Wales,  not  exceeding  the  value  of  40;.  yearly,  the  alien  priory  of  Chepstowe 
in  Wales  and  the  marches  of  Wales,  the  alien  priory,  manor  or  lordship  of 
Ikham,  in  the  counties  of  Lincoln  and  Oxford,  not  exceeding  100«.  yearly,  the 
hospital  or  free  chapel  of  St.  James,  Great  Therlowe,  co.  Suffolk,  not  ex- 
.  ceeding  60#.  yearly,  and  the  advowsons  of  the  churches  of  Nauby  alias 
Naanby,  co.  Lincoln,  and  Fyndrayton  alias  F3'nnedraytou  or  Fennech^yton, 
CO.  Cambridge,  with  all  liberties,  franchises,  knights'  fees,  manors,  lordships, 
lands,  views  of  frank-pledge,  courts  leet,  advowsons  and  other  appurte- 
nances, that  they  may  pay  for  the  good  estate  of  the  king  and  for  his  soul 
after  death,  and  the  souls  of  his  father  Richard,  late  duke  of  York,  and  liis 
brother  Edmund,  late  earl  of  Rutland,  and  the  said  William  Bingham.  By  p.s. 

Mbmbrans  15. 

July  5.  Inspeximus  and  confirmation  to  the  abbot  and  convent  of  Waverle,  of 

Westmiaster.  the  Cistercian  order,  of  a  charter  dated  at  Clarendon,  30  November, 
5  Edward  III.  [^Charter  Roily  b  Edward  III,  No,  A^"]  being  a  grant  to 
them  of  a  tun  of  red  Avine  yearly  in  the  port  of  Suthampton. 

For  \  mark  paid  in  the  hanaper. 

Nov.  17.  Grant  for  life  to  John  Bamme,  esquire,  of  the  ofRee  of  steward  of  the 
Weitmiiuter.  king's  courts  of  his  hundreds  of  Middelton  and  Merden,  co.  Kent,  witli 
wages  of  10  marks  yearly  from  18  July,  1  Edward  IV.  from  the  issues  of 
the  same,  and  all  other  accustomed  profit<t ;  in  lien  of  another  grant  to  him 
of  the  said  office  and  of  the  office  of  bailiff  of  the  said  hundreds,  by  letters 
patent  dated  18  July  1  Edward  IV.  surrendered  as  insufficient  as  to  the 
wages,  fees  or  regards  to  be  received.  By  p.s. 

Mandate  in  pursuance  tathe  receivers,  farmers^  or  other  occupiers  or 
ministers  of  the  same. 

Sept.  30..,      Grant  for  life  to  William  Petyte  of  a  yearly  rent  of  *Ih  from  the  town  of 
Westminster.  Bi;lweU,  co.  Nottingham,  By  p.s. 

Mandate  in  pursuance  to  tli^  farmuTi^  bailiffs,  ^and  otlier  occupiers  of  the 

Nov.  3.         Grant  for  Kfe  tt3  Gebrgb'Busshet  of  100^.  yearly  from  the  issues  of  the 

Westminster,  subsidy  and  ulnage  of  cloths  and  half  the  forfeiture  of  the  same  in  the  city 

of  London.  By  p.s. 

Mandate  in  pursuance  to  the  farmers,  I'eceivcrs.  and  other  occupiers  of 

the  same. 

1463,  

Feb,  5.  Pardon,  for  .30^.  paid  in  the  hanaper,   to  Henry  Sotehill,  Hugh  Noone, 

Westminster,  clerk^  William  Parchet,  derk,  and  Henry  Bell,  vicar  of  the  parish  c!hurch 
of  Est  Basyn,  for  acquiring  in  fee  from  Gerard  Sotehill  the  manor  of  Red- 
bourn,  co.  Lincoln,  held  in  chief,  and  entering  thereon  without  licence. 

Peb.  10.  Grant  for  life  to  John  Mylsam,  one  of  the  yeomen  of  the  chamber,  of  all 

Westminster*  lands  and  tenements  within  the  hamlet  of  Berkhampsted,  co.  Hertford, 

of  the  yearly  value  of  5  marks,  which  Koger  Martyn  lately  occupied,  in 

the  king's  hands  by  reason  of  an  act  in  Parliament  at  Westminster, 

4  Kovemberi  1  ]EIdward  IV«  By  p.s« 


#         %  *  «■  > 


2  BbWAKD  IV.— Pabt  It  2lfl 


1463.  '     "  Metnbrane  15 — cont. 

Feb.  8.  Mandate  to  the  major  and  sheriff's  of  London  and  the  collectors  of  the 

Westminster,  tax  imposed  in  tlie  late  Parliament  at  Redyng  upon*  strangers  staying 
within  the  realm  not  to  compel  Gervase  le  Vulre,  one  of  tlie  king's  notaries 
and  secretaries  in  his  Chancery  of  France,  who  may  be  counted  as  a 
stranger  because  lie  took  not  his  origin  in  the  realm  of  England,  and  his 
wife  and  servants  to  contribute  to  the  same,  because  he  was  born  a 
subject  of  the  king  in  his  realm  of  France  and  was  summoned  to  England 
twenty-six  years  ago  and  more  to  serve  tlie  king,  and  has  ever  since  con- 
tinued in  some  office  in  his  household ;  and  to  restore  anything  that  ouiy 
have  been  levied  from  him  on  that  account.  By  p.s. 

Feb.  15.  Revocation  of  the  protection  with  clause  vo/tii/iut,  for  one  year,  lately 
Westminster,  granted  by  letters  patent  to  Hugh  Johns  of  the  town  of  Gloucester,  *  chap- 
man '  alias  '  yoman,'  in  the  belief  that  he  Was  to  stay  on  the  king's  service 
in  the  company  of  John  Wode,  king's  esquire,  victualler  of  the  town  and 
castle  of  Calais  and  the  marches  of  the  same  in  the  parts  of  Picardy,  on 
the  safe-custody,  defence,  and  victualling  of  the  same,  because  he  at  Glou- 
ster  makes  codtiaual  stay,  as  appears  by  certificate  of  the  sheriff  of  the 
county. 

Feb.  28.  General  pardon  to  David  ap  Howell,  late  of  Ovyng,  co.  Buckingham, 

Westminster.  <  gentilman,'  for  all  offences  committed  by  him  before  21  February.    By  K. 

Feb.  28.         Grant  for  life  to  John  Clerk,  chaplain,  warden  of  the  king's  chantry  in 
Westminster,  le  Charnell  within  the  town  of  Scardeburgh,  co.  York,  founded  by  Richard 
'"  II.  of  6  marks  yearly  from  Michaelmas  last  for  his  sustenance,  from  the 

fee  farm  of  the  said  town  and  the  farm  of  the  manor  of  Wallesgrave. 

By  p.8. 

J462.  Mbmbranb  14. 

Sept.  16*  The  like  to  Joan  late  the  wife  of  Edmund  Ingaldesthorp,  knight,  of 
Westminster.  HI/.  Of.  2}</.  yearly  from  the  subsidy  and  ulnage  of  cloths  in  the  counties 
of  Norfolk,  Suffolk,  and  Essex,  in  recompense  of  the  same  sum  assigned 
to  her  in  dower  out  of  au  annuity  of  500  marks  yearly  at  the  Exchequer, 
of  which  her  husband  was  seised  m  his  demesne  as  of  tee,  by  John  Thorn- 
bury,  late  escheator  in  the  county  of  Middlesex,  on  6  December,  35  Henry 
VI.  Bj  p.s. 

Nov.  2.  Ratification  of  letters  patent  dated  8  July,  1  Edward  lY.  being  a  grant 

Westminster,  during  good  behaviour  to  Master  Henry  Sharp,  doctor  of  laws,  of  the 

office  of  prothonotary  of  the  Chancery,  receiving  50  marks  yearly  from  the 

ibsucs  of  the  hanaper,  which  he  Tears  might  be  invalid  by  reason  of  an  act 

in  the  last  Pariiament  at  Westminster. 

By  K.  and  for  ^  mark  paid  in  the  hanaper. 

Oct.  20.  Signiiication  to  TV.    bitshop  of  Winchester,  of  the  royal  assent  to  the 

Westminster,  election  of  Thomas  Eohys,  a  brother  of  the  conventual  church  of  St.  Denis 
by  Suthampton,  of  the  order  of  St.  Augustine,  as  prior  of  that  place. 

May  14.  Grant  to  the  king's  tenants  of  the  town  of  Nassiugton  and  Yarwell  that 
I  Westminster,  they  shall  be  quit  of  the  imposition  of  1  mark  yearly  called  ^  Wodeshalfmarc,' 
newly  exacted  from  them  by  the  officers  of  the  king's  forest  of  Bokyngham 
contrary  to  ancient  custom,  and  all  other  exactions  contrary  to  custom,  and 
that  they  shall  have  free  common  for  their  cattle  and  beasts  in  Seweley 
and  elsewhere  within  the  forest,  as  do  the  king's  tenants  of  Clyff  and 
Stanyam.  By  K. 

Nov.  9.  Mandate  to  the  escheator  in  the  counties  of  Southampton  and  Wilts  for 

Westminster,  the  restitution  of  the  temporalities  of  the  priory  of  St.  Denis  by 
Soutlianipton,  of  the  order  of  St.  Augustine,  to  Thomas  Robis,  canon 
of  the  same,  whose  election  as  prior  W.  bishop  of  Winchester,  has  con* 
firmed,  and  whose  fealty  the  king  has  ordered  to  be  taken  by  the  abbot  o| 
Syde  by  Wincbobter. 


?20  CAtEN'DAR  Of  PATElfT  ROLLS. 


1462.  Membrane  U — cont. 

'  t 

The  like  to  John  Pajne,  mayor  of  Southampton  and  escheator  in  that 
town. 

Writ  de  itUendendo  in  pursuance  to  the  tenants. 

1463. 

Jan.  24.         Grant  for  life  to  Thomas  Saintlegier,  one  of  the  esquires  of  the  body, 

Westmiiitter.   of  the  office  of  the  custody  of  the  king's  park  of  Guldeford,  co.  SuTey, 

receiving  the  herbage  and  pannage  of  the  park  for  wages.  By  p.s. 

Jan.  2S*         Grant  \o  Henry  Purpoint,  king's  esquire,  oi  the  office  of  steward  of  the 

Westminster,  lorc'ship  of  Mawnsfeld,  co.  ^Nottingham,  with  the  accustomed  fees  from  the 

issues  of  the  lordship  and  all  other  profits.  By  p.s.  [1115.] 

Grant  to  him  of  the  office  of  steward  of  the  lordship  of  Bolesore  and 
Horsley,  oo.  Derby,  with  fees  as  above. 

Grant  to  him  of  the  office  of  the  custody  of  the  king's  park  and  launde  of 
Clypston  and  '  palyser '  of  the  park,  with  fees  as  above. 

Jan.  30.         Grant  to  the  king's  servitor  Sanfrid  Arundell  and  the  heirs  male  of  his 

Westminster,  body  of  the  manor  of  Shevyoke  and  Antony  with  the  advowson  of  the 

church  there,  late  of  Thomas,  late  earl  of  Devon,  not  exceeding  the  yearly 

value  of  40/.  By  p.s. 

Jan.  31.         Grant  for  life  to  John  Rede,  one  of  the  yeomen  of  the  crown,  of  the 

Westminster,  manor  of  Quenecourt  in  the  parish  of  Est  Tederley,  co.  Southampton,  late 

of  Henry  Court,  servant  of  Henry,  late  duke  of  Somerset,  of  the  grant  of 

Henry  IV.  not  exceeding  the  value  of  22/.  yearly.  By  p.s. 

Jan.  28.  The  like  to  Alvred  Corneburgh,  king's  esquire,  usher  of  the  king's 
Westminster,  chamber,  of  the  manors  of  Penpolle,  Denai'dake  and  Lanyheyron,  co. 
Cornwall,  and  all  lands,  rents,  services,  knights'  fees,  advowsons,  courts 
leet,  views  of  frank-pledge,  warrens  and  all  other  liberties  late  of 
William  Vaux  alias  Faux,  attainted  of  high  treason  by  authority  of 
Parliament,  to  hold  by  fealty  only.  By  p.8. 

][4g2.  Mbmbrans  13. 

I  Oct.  20.         Mandate  to  the  escheator  in  the  counties  of  Cumberland  and  Westmore- 

Westminster,  land  for  the  restitution  of  the  temporalities  of  the  bishopric  of  Carlisle  to 
John  Eyngescotes,  ^vhom  the  Pope  has  appointed  bishop  in  the  place  of 
William,  deceased.     [^Fcedera.']  By  p,s. 

The  like  to  the  escheators  in  the  following  counties : — 

Lincoln. 

Derby. 

Middlesex. 

Northumberland. 
Writ  de  tntendendo  in  pursuance  to  the  tenants. 

Oct.  18.         Licence  for  the  president  of  the  chapter  of  the  priory  of  St.  Denis  by 
Westminster.   Suthanipton,  of  the  order  of  St.  Augustine,  in  the  diocese  of  Winchester, 
and  the  convent  of  that  place  to  elect  u  prior  in  the  place  of  William 
Norman,  deceased. 

1463. 

Jan.  29.  Grant  to  the  mayor  and  society  of  the  merchants  of  the  staple  of  the 
Westminster,  town  of  Calais,  in  recompense  of  4,322/.  7^.  lent  by  them  to  the  king  for 
payment  of  the  wages  of  the  captain  and  soldiers  of  the  town  and  the  castle 
and  marches  there,  as  appears  by  an  entry  in  the  pell  at  the  receipt  of  the 
Exchequer,  that  they  may  ship  sacks  or  cloves  of  wool  and  wool-fells  from 
any  ports  in  the  realm  to  the  said  town  of  Calais  quit  of  the  subsidy  and 
custom  granted  by  authority  of  Parliament,  viz.  40s.  for  each  sack  of  wool 
or  every  240  wool-fells  shipped  by  natives  and  4  marks  for  the  same  shipped 
by  aliens,  until  these  acquittance:)  shall  reach  the  said  sum  of  4,322/.  7^. 

ByK. 


2  EDWARD  IV,— Part  II,  321 


14g2,  /  '  Membrane  13 — cont. 

f.    Nov.  5,  Grant  for  life  to  John  CJiffe,  one  o£  the  king's  minstrels^  of  10  marks 

Westmioster.  yearly  from  Easter  last  from  the  fee  farm  of  the  hundreds  of  Keftesgatc, 
Holford  and  Greston  with  the  fairs  and  markets  held  in  the  town  of 
Wyncheeombe,  by  the  hands  of  the  abbot  and  convent  of  Wyncheoombe. 

By  PA  [1076.] 

The  like  to  William  Wykes,  one  of  the  king's  minstrels,  of  10  marks 
yearly  from  Easter  last  from  the  same,     i  By  the  same  writ  [1077.] 

1463. 

March  2.        General  pardon  to  Thomas  Elwyk,  late  of  Calais,  esquire.  By  K. 

Westminster. 

I4Q2.  Membranb  12. 

Aug.  1.  Impeximus  and  confirmation  to  the  burgesses  of  Lostwithyel  and  Penk- 

Westminster,   nek  in  Cornwall  of  letters  patent  dated  20  February,  3  Richard  II.  inspecting 

and  confirming  a  charter  dated  at  Cippenham,  30  October,  19  Edward  II. 

inspecting  and  confirming  a  charter  of  Richard,  earl  of  Cornwall,  kiog  of 

the  Romans,  dated  at  Watlinton,  13  July,  in  the  twelfth  year  of  his  reign. 

For  20^.  paid  in  the  hanaper. 

Not.  20.         Mandate  to  all  persons  to  pennit  William  Buteler,  chaplain,  a  native  of 

Westminster,  the  city  of  St.  Andrews  in  Scotland,  dwelling  at  Charryug,  co.  Kent,  who  hos 

taken  an  oath  of  fealty,  to  inhabit  the  realm  peacefully  and  enjoy  his  goods. 

By  p,s. 

Dec.  4.  Like  mandate  in  favour  of  William  Aiayn,  *  smyth,'  a  native  of  Anehand 

Westminster,   in  Scotland,  dwelling  at  Challoke,  co.  Kent.  By^)  s. 

1463. 

Feb.  4.  Like  mandate  in  favour  of  Robert  Hikkesson,  ^yoman,'  a  native  of  Dund^ 

Westminster,   in  Scotland,  dwelling  at  Estmallyng,  co.  Kent.  By  p.8. 

March  1.        Like  mandate  in  favour  of  David  Smyth,  chaplaiti,  a  native  of  Aburdenp 
Westminster,  in  Scotland,  dwelling  at  Peterborough.  By  p.s. 

1402. 

Oct.  20.  Confirmation  to  James  Goldewell,  clerk,  doctor  of  laws,  archdeacon  of 
Westminster.  Essex,  and  his  successors  of  all  his  estate  in  a  messuage  with  a  cnrtilsge 
and  garden  adjacent  and  4^  acres  of  land  with  wards,  marriages,  reliefs, 
escheats,  heriots,  suits,  courts  and  all  appurtenances,  in  Stratford  Laogthorii 
in  the  parish  of  Westham,  co.  Essex,  and  the  fealty  and  service  of  12*.  l\d. 
and  a  rose  yearly  rent  from  divers  tenements  in  the  said  parish,  which 
Robert  Orpy,  James  Alveley,  clerks,  John,  bishop  of  Worcester,  Thomas^ 
bishop  of  Bath,  and  Richard  Andrewe,  clerk,  demised  to  him  in  mortmain 
without  licence.  By  E. 

1463, 

Jan.  22.  Grant  to  John  Scotte,  king's  knight,  controller  of  the  king's  household, 
Westminster,  and  his  heirs  and  assigns  of  two  parts  of  the  manors  or  lor^hips  of  Old- 
swynford,  Gannowe  and  Snowdesbury,  uo.  Worcester,  late  of  James  Botiller 
alias  Ormond,  late  earl  of  Wiltshire,  lately  granted  by  letters  patent  to  Fulk 
Stafford,  esquire,  now  deceased  without  heir,  and  the  reversion  of  the  third 
part  on  the  death  of  Margaret,  late  the  wife  of  the  said  Fulk,  with  all 
privileges,  rights,  advowsons  and  profits.  By  p.s. 

Feb.  26.  Grant  for  life  to  William  Hastings,  knight,  lord  of  Hastynges,  of  the 

Westminster,  office  of  receiver  general  of  tho  duchy  of  Cornwall  and  the  portage  of  the 
king's  money  from  the  issues  of  the  duchy,  with  a  fee  of  41/.  yearlj'  from  the 
issues  of  the  dnchy  and  al^o  the  portage  in  the  same  manner  as  John 
Brekuok,  Thomas  Glouceslre,  Robert  Whilynghum  and  Louis  John,  late 
severally  receivers  general,  had  with  all  other  accustomed  profits.        By  K. 


282  CALENDAR  OF  t>ATENT  ROLLS, 


1462*  Membrane  li^^eoni^ 

Not*  2,  Gkant  in  frank  almoin  to  the  prior  and  convent  of  the  friars  of  the  order 
WeBtmisiter.  of  Holy  Trinitj,  Hoondeslowe,  of  20/.  yearlj  from  4  March  last,  from  the 
fee  farm  of  the  town  of  Kyngeston  on  Thames,  until  they  shall  he  pro- 
vided with  land  to  that  value,  in  consideration  of  the  fact  that  they  had  a 
grant  to  them  of  20/.  yearly  at  the  Exchequer  until  provided  with  an 
equivalent  in  land  by  letters  patent  of  Edward  UL  which  they  enjoyed 
until  Henry  IV.  granted  to  them  10/.  yearly  from  the  said  fee.  farm  in 
lieu  of  the  same  by  letters  patent,  which  are  now  invalid.  By  p.a. 

Mbmbranb  11. 

Sept.  16.  Grant  to  the  mayor  and  society  of  the  merchants  of  the  staple  of  the 
Westminster,  town  of  Calais,  in  repayment  of  40,917/.  19«.  2^d.  delivered  by  them  to 
the  king  for  the  safe-custody  of  the  town,  castle,  and  marches,*  and  the 
wages  of  the  captain  and  soldiers  of  the  same,  except  3,000  marks  which 
they  have  released  to  the  king,  of  ISs,  4d.  from  the  subsidies  of  each  sack 
of  wool  and  every  240  wool-fells  and  6^.  Sd.  for  the  custom  of  each  sack . 
of  wool  and  every  240  wool-fells  shipped  from  the  ports  of  Boston  or 
Sandwich  to  Calais  by  any  person  not  of  their  society,  and  lSs.4d.  from 
the  subsidies  of  each  sack  of  wool  and  every  240  wool-fells  shipped  from 
any  other  port  of  the  realm  to  Calais  by  any  person  not  of  their  society ; 
and  licence  for  them  to  ship  sacks  of  wool  and  wool-fella  from  any  ports 
in  the  realm  to  Calais  quit  of  custom  and  subsidies  at  the  rate  of  40f .  for 
each  sack  of  wool  and  every  240  wool-fells,  until  they  shall  in  this  way 
be  fully  satisfied  of  the  said  sum  of  40,917/.  Ids*  2^d.  excepting  the  said 
3000  marks.  By  E. 

1463. 

Jan.  S,  Licence,  for  100/.  paid  in  the  hanaper,  for  Alice,  late,  the  wife  of  William 

WMtminster.  Lovell  of  Lovell,  knight,  to  marry  Ralph  Boteler  of  Sudeley,  knight.  By  K. 

Feb.  5.  Grant  to  William  Hastynges,  knight,  lord  Hastynges,  king's  chamberlain, 

Westminster,  and  Thomas  Vaghan,  one  of  the  esquires  of  the  body,  of  the  presentation 
to  the  next  vacant  prebend  within  the  college  of  St.  Ueorge,  Wyndesoi*e. 

ByK. 

Jan.  28.         Pardon  to  Walter  Wrottesley,  esquire,  late  sheriff  of  Stafford,  of  all 
Weitminster.  debts,  accounts,  fines  and  amercements  due  from  htm  to  the  king.      By  p.s. 

Feb.  8.  Presentation  of  John  Clerc,  priest,  to  the  chantry  called  *  le  Charnell ' 

Westminster,  within  the  town  of  Scardeburgh,  in  the  diocese  of  York.  By  p.s. 

1462. 

Nov.  12.         Gri*ant  in  frank  almoin  to  John,  the  abbot,  and  the  convent  of  the  houso 

Westminster,  and. church  of  St.  Mary  and  St.  Rumon,  Tavystoke,  co.  Devon,  of  the 

alien  priory  of  Cowyk,  co.  Devon,  with  all  pensions,  portions,  fruits,  cells, 

manors,  lands,  mills,  rents,  services,  knights'  fees,  free  fisheries,  warrens, 

courts  le^t,  views  of  frank  pledge,  advowsons  and  other  profits.  By  K. 

MSUBRANS   10. 

Nov,  20.  Grant  to  Hugh  Wyche,  citizen  and  alderman  of  London,  in  repayment 
Westminster,  of  100/.  lent  by  him  to  the  king,  that  he  may  ship  woollen  cloths  of  any 
colour,  wools  and  wool-fells  in  the  ports  of  London  and  Suthampton  in 
carracks,  galleys,  or  other  vessels  to  foreign  parts  and  send  them  across 
the  mountains  by  the  pass  (strictus)  of  Marrok,  qnit  of  any  customs  and 
subsidies  due  to  the  king  beyond  the  20.t.  appointed  for  Calais  and  the 
iU,  Sd,  from  the  subsidy  oJP  wools  appointed  for  the  mayor  and  merchants 
of  the  staple  of  Calais  by  authority  of  Parliament,  until  by  these  acquittances 
he  shall  be  fully  satisfied  of  the  said  100/.  By  p.B, 


2  EDWARD  IV.— Part  it  32.1 


J  jjg2*  Membrane  10-— t»fi#» 

Mandate  in  pursuance  to  the  customers  or  collectors  of  tbe  cuftoms  and 
subsidies  of  wools,  hides,  and  wool-fells  in  th^  port  of  London. 

The  like  to  the  customers  or  collectors  of  the  petty  custom  in  the  port  of 
London. 

Dee.  20.  Grant  to  Katharine  de  la  Pole,  the  abbess,  and  the  convent  of  Berkjng, 
Westmiiuter.  co.  Essex,  on  account  of  the  losses  that  they  have  sustained  by  a  ^reat 
pait  of  their  land  being  inundated  by  the  river  Thames,  of  all  fines, 
ransoms,  amercements,  and  fbrfeitures,  the  assize  of  Ixead,  wine,  ale,  and 
other  victuals,  chattels  of  fugitives  and  felons  and  deodands,  and  return  of 
writs  and  executions  in  their  humired  of  Bekentre  aliatt  Begentrowe,  and 
any  of  their  lands  and  fees.  By  p.s, 

24g3^  MSMBRANS  9. 

Jan.  30.  Grant  to  the  mayor  and  citizens  of  York  that  the  mayor,  aldermen  and 
Westminster,  recorder  of  the  city  shall  always  be  commissioners  of  the  waters  and  great  rivers 
of  Ouse,  Humbre,  Wharff,  Derwent,  Ayro  andDunre  in  the  counties  of  York 
and  Lincoln  and  the  city  of  York,  viz.  the  Wharff  from  the  Ayre  and  Ouse 
to  the  town  and  bridge  of  Tadcastre,  the  Derwent  from  the  Ouse  to  the 
town  and  bridge  of  Sutton  on  Derwent,  the  Ayre  from  the  Ouse  to  the  town 
and  stank  of  the  mills  of  Knottynglay,  and  the  Dunne  from  the  Ouse  to  the 
town  and  stank  of  the  mills  of  Doncastre,  pursuant  to  the  statutes  for 
the  supervision  of  the  rivers  and  of  weirs,  mills,  stanks,  pales,  piles, 
and  kiddles,  made  before  the  time  of  Edward  I.  in  the  same  manner 
as  the  mayor  and  citizens  of  London  are  commissioners  of  the  river 
Thames  ;  that  the  mayor  and  aldermen  shall  be  justices  of  the  peace  and  of 
oyer  and  terminer  within  the  hundred  or  wapentake  of  Aynsty  ;  and  that 
the  mayor  shall  be  escheator  in  the  same  hundred  or  wapentake. 

Byp.s.  [1128.] 

Jan.  27.  Grant  to  the  king's  servant  Thomas  Prout,  esquire,  and  the  heirs  male 
Weetminster.  of  his  body  of  two  parts  of  the  lordships  of  Cradeley  and  Hagley,  co. 
Worcester,  lately  forfeited  by  James  late  earl  of  Wiltshire,  and  al'terwards 
granted  by  letters  patent  to  Fnlk  Stafford,  eciiq'uire,  deceased  without  issue 
of  his  body,  and  the  reversion  of  the  third  part  on  the  death  of  Margaret, 
late  the  wife  of  the  said  Fulk,  with  all  rights  and  profits.  By  p.s. 

1462. 

Aug.  2.         Ratification  of  the  estate  which  John  Crecy,  king's  clerk,  has  as  warden  of 

Wesnninster.   the  free  chapel  of  St.  Mary,  Watton,  alias  Wemstede  in  the  parish  of  Watton 

at  the  Stone,  co.  Hertford,  and  grant  to  him  of  the  chapel  and  the  custody 

of  the  same  for  life.  By  K. 

Sept.  30.        Grant  for  life  to  John  Hoom  of  an  annuity  of  10  marks  from  the 
Westminster,  issues  of  the  hundreds  and  lordships  of  Middelton  and  Merden,  co.  Kent. 

By  p.s. 

July  10.        The  like  to  Roger  Baker  of  Shrewsbury  of  the  office  of  one  of  the  king*8 

Westminster,  foresters  within   his  forest  of  Morfi^,  with  the  accustomed  fees,  in  the  same 

manner  as  William  Perlour  lately  had  the  same.  By  p.s. 

Oct.  20.  Grant  to  John  Wenlok,  knight,  lord  Wenlok,  of  20/.  yearly  from  the 

Westminster,  issues  of  the  county  of  Nottingham  and  40  marks  yearly  from  the  issues  of 
the  counties  of  Norfolk  and  Suffolk,  from  the  deaUi  of  John,  late  duke  of 
Norfolk,  for  the  sustenance  of  John,  now  duke,  his  son,  so  long  as  he  is 
in  the  king's  custody.  Ricbarcl  IL  by  letters  patent  dated  12  February, 
6  Richard! I.  created  his  kinsman  Thomas  Mou bray  of  Azihoim  ear i  of 
Nottingham  and  granted  to  him  in  tail  male  the  said  20/.  yearly  as  above, 
and  by  further  letters  patent  dated  29  September  21  Richard  II.  advanced 
him  to  be  duke  of  Norfolk  and  granted  to  him  40  marks  yearly  at  the 
Exchequer ;  and  the  king  by  letters  patent  dated  12  August  1  Edward  IV. 
granted  to  the  said  John,  then  duke,  son  of  John,  formerly  duke,  son  of  the 


2ii  t     OALENDAE  OF  PATENT  ROLLS. 


f    1462«  Membrane  9 — cent, 

said  Thomas,  the  said  40  Diarks  yearly  as  above  in  Heu  of  the  last  named 
grant ;  but  the  grants  came  to  the  king's  hands  by  reason  of  the  minority 
of  the  present  duke.  By  p.s.  [1049.] 

1463.  Mbmbranb  8. 

Feb.  28.         Pardon  to  John  Champemoun,  esquire,  brother  and  heir  of  BogerCham- 

Westmiuster.   pernonn,  esquire,  late  sheriff  of  Cornwall,  and  administrator  of  his  goods,  of 

all  trespasses,  offences,  misprisions,  contempts,  negligences,  concealments 

and  forfeitures  of  all  fines,  amercements,  debts  and  accounts  due  to  the  king 

before  1  May  last.  By  p.s. 

Feb.  10.  Grant,  in  consideration  of  their  charges  in  conflicts  against  the  kind's 
Westminster,  enemies,  to  William  Parre,  knight,  and  John  Parre  his  brother  and  the  heirs 
male  of  their  bodies  of  all  lands  and  possessions  in  the  county  of  Westmore- 
land late  of  Henry  Belingeham,  knight,  rebel,  in  the  king's  hands  by  reason 
of  an  act  of  forfeiture  in  Parliament  at  Westminster,  4  November,  1 
Edward  IV.  not  exceeding  the  value  of  100/.  yearly.  By  p.s* 

Jan.  22.         Grant  in   fee  simple  to  John  Fogge,  king's  knight,  of  the  manor  of 

Westminster.   Aswerdby,  co.  Lincoln,  lately  belonging  to  William  Tailboys  and  in  the 

king's  hands  by  his  attaint  of  high  treason,  and  the  advowson  of  the  church 

of  the  same.  By  p.s. 

March  8.         Mandate  to  the  escheator  in  the  county  of  Lincoln  for  the  restitution  of 
Westminster,  the  temporalities  of  the  abbey  of  Elnestowe,  of  the  Benedictine  order,  to 
Elizabeth  Hasylden,  nun  of  the  house,  v^hose  election  as  abbess  in  the  place 
of  Rose  Waldgrave,  deceased,  John,  bishop  of  Lincoln,  has  confirmed. 
The  like  to  the  escheators  in  the  following  counties : — 
Northampton. 
Bedford  and  Buckingham. 
Oxford. 

Norfolk  and  Suffolk, 
Gloucester. 
Huntingdon. 
Essex  and  Hertford. 
Leicester. 
Writ  de  intendendo  in  pursuance  to  the  tenants.  , 

1462. 

May  12.  Grant  for  life  to  the  servants  of  the  household,  John  Fereby,  one  of  the 

Westminster,  yeomen  of  the  crown,  and  John  Sydburgh,  yeoman  of  the  king's  robes,  of  all 
lands  late  of  William  Grymmesby,  in  Grymesby,  Howton,  Clee,  Scarthowe 
and  Bradley,  co.  Lincoln,  to  the  value  of  20  marks  yearly,  in  the  king's 
hands  by  his  forfeiture  by  force  of  an  act  of  Parliament  at  Westminster, 
4  November,  rendering  2*.  yearly  at  the  Exchequer. 

March  22.        The  like  to  William  Whelpedale,  for  his  good  service  to  the  king  apd  his 

Westminster,   father,  of  the  office  of  water-bailiff  and  keeper  of  all  ports  and  passages  of 

the  king  in  Ireland  and  the  office  of  the  scrutiny  of  the  same,  receiving  the 

accustomed  fees.  By  p.s. 

Nov.  2.         The  like  to  the  king's  servant  Thomas  de  la  Launde,  esquire,  a  native  of 

Westminster,  the  duchy  of  Aquitaine,  of  30/.  yearly  from  the  customs  in  the  port  of 

Suthampton.  By  p.s. 

Sept.  15.         The  like  to  Ingelram  Lepton  of  all  lands  in  the  town  of  Ampulford,  co. 
Westminster.  York,  late  of  Thomas  Barton,  rebel,  granted  to  him  by  Thomas  de  Boos, 
knight,  in  the  king's  hands  by  reason  of  an  act  of  Parliament  at  West- 
minster, 4  November,  not  exceeding  the  yearly  value  of  8  marks.       By  K. 

1463. 

Jan.  27.         Licence  for  the  prior  and  co»}vent  of  the  monastery  of  Whitby  to  elect 
^Westminster,  an  abbot  in  the  placo  of  Kugh,  deceased.  By  p.8. 


2  EDWARD  1V.~Part  II.  2i25 


1462.  MSMBRANB  7. 

Aug.  1.  Grant  to  the  king^s  uncle  William  Neyille,  carl  of  Kent  and  lord  of 

WeHtminster.  Faucoinbergc,  and  the  heirs  male  of  his  bodj  of  the  manors  and  lordships 
of  Crukerne,  Misterton,  Glopton,  Kyngeston  by  Yevulchestre,  Somerton 
Erleghy  Batheneston  and  Shekerwike,  eo.  Somerset,  Northam,  Londay, 
Slapton,  Torrybrian,  Clyfton  Dertmouth  Hardenesse,  Norton  Daunde  by 
Dertmouthy  AylesbeAre  and  Whympell,  co.  Devon,  and  Sheyyok,  Antony, 
Portloo,  Landulp,  Trelowia,  Northill,  Landrian,  Legh  Duran^  Oldlawitta, 
PenpoUy  Elerky  and  Lanyhorn,  co.  Coriiwall,  the  boroughs  of  CrofthuU  and 
Portpigham,  co.  Cornwall,  the  lordships  and  manors  of  Ebryngton,  Teverne 
Courteney,  Maperton,  Ramsam,  Wroxhale,  Childefrome,  Tolre  Porcorum, 
Pountknoll,  Yalet,  Gleyecombo,  Swcre,  Netherkentcombe  and  Hasilbeare, 
CO.  Dorset,  the  castle  and  lordship  of  Warder,  co.  Wilts,  the  lordships  and 
manors  of  Chellesfelde,  Esthall,  Faukehnm,  Ayssh  and  Wylmyngtou,  co. 
Kent,  and  Maunsfelde,  Lyndeby  and  Clypston  in  Shirwode,  co.  Nottingham, 
tho  castle  and  lordships  of  Horeston  and  Balsover,  co.  Derby,  the  lordships 
and  manok's  of  Whitle  and  Warpesden  alias  Warpelesden,  co.  Sun*ey ,  the 
manors  of  Bondeby,  co.  Lincoln,   find  Westle,  co.    Suffolk,  all  manors, 
messuages,  lands,  rents  and  services  late  of  Antony  Nuthill  of  Holdernesse 
in  the  county  of  York,  all  burgages,  messuages,  lands,  rents  and  services 
late  of  Thomas  Tresham,  knight,  in  the  town,  suburb  and  fields  of  Nor- 
hampton,  the  manor  of  Wavenden,  co.  Buckingham,  and  all  other  lauds,  rents 
and  services  in  those  places,  with  all  timber  and  lead,  late  of  the  said  Thomas 
Tresham  in  the  town  of  Norhampton,  with  advowsons,  knights'  fees, 
frandiises,  liberties,  hundreds,  courts  leet,  views  of   frank-pledge,  fairs, 
markets,  warrens,  fisheries,  wreck  of  sea,  chattels  of  felons  and  fugitives 
and  all  other  profits,  in  the  king's  hands  by  reason  of  an  act  of  Parliament 
at.Westminster,  4  November,  and  all  the  issues  of  the  same  from  the  first 
day  of  the  reign.    And  if  he  die  without  male  heir  of  his  body  the  king 
grants  the  said  lordships  and  manors  of  Crukeme,  Aylesbcare,  Whympell, 
Torribrian,  Ebryngton,  Yeverne  Courtenay,  Shevyok,  Antony,   Portloo, 
Landnlp,  Trelowia,  NorthiU,  Landryan,  Legh  Durant,  Oldlawitta,  Penpoll, 
Elerky,  Norton,  Croftholl,  Porpighan  and  Lavyhome  with  advowsons  and 
knight's  fees  to  George  Neville,  bishop  of  Exeter,  John  Markham,  knight, 
chief  Justice  of  the  Bench,  Robert  Danby,  knight,  chief  justice  of  the  Com- 
mon ^ench,  Thomas  Witham,  chancellor  of  the  Exchequer,  Thomas  Cooke, 
citizen  and  alderman  of  London,  Robert  Ingleton,  John  Payntour  and 
Thomas  Graveson  for  twelve  years  from  his  death. 

Dec.  28.  Grant  to  the  sovereign,  provosts  and  burgesses  of  the  town  of  YoghuU, 
Westminster,  on  account  of  the  frequent  ossaults  by  land  and  sea  of  (he  L'ish  and  the 
English  rebels,  of  the  power  to  collect  the  custom  and  cocket  of  all 
customable  things  for  the  repair  of  the  walls  of  the  town ;  the  account  to 
be  made  before  two  of  the  burgesses  to  be  elected  for  this  by  the  commons 
of  the  town  from  year  to  year  and  not  at  the  Exchequer  of  Ireland.  Also 
tlie  sovereign  and  provosts  shall  have  full  power  and  cognisance  of  all  pleas 
of  tenures  within  the  town,  suburb  and  liberty,  by  fresh  force,  to  wit 
within  forty  days  after  any  person  has  been  ejected  from  his  free  tenement, 
and  executions  of  judgments  of  the  same ;  they  shall  have  cognisance  of 
regraters  and  forestallers,  and  no  foreign  merchant  coming  with  iron,  salt, 
wines  and  other  merchandise  shall  have  power  to  expose  the  same  for  sale 
or  to  open  a  wine  tavern  without  their  licence  ;  and  they  shall  have  the 
assize  of  bread  and  ale  and  the  custody  and  assize  of  weights  and  measures. 
The  sovereign  shall  have  the  powers  of  escheator  and  admiral  within  the 
town,  and  full  power  of  all  pleas  of  lands  and  cognisance  of  all  assizes 
within  the  town  and  burgages,  unless  the  king's  lieutenant,  the  justiciary, 
the  chancellor  or  the  treasurer,  of  Ireland  be  present.  The  sovereign, 
commonalty  and  burgesses  shall  not  be  impleaded  except  before  a  jury 
of  the  burgesses*  The  sovereign  and  burgesses  shall  not  be  compelled 
by  justices  of  oyer  and  termineri  commissioners  of  the  peace  or  other 

u    S69U.  ? 


226  CALENDAR  OP  PATENT  ROLLS. 


1462.  Membrane  7 — cont, 

officers  of  the  king  to  labour  or  appear  before  them  without  the  town 
except  by  special  mandate  under  the  privy  seal  when  the  king's  lieutenanty 
chief  justice,  chancellor  or  treasurer  of  Ireland  shall  be  present  in  the 
county.  The  town  shall  be  one  of  the '  Petylymmes '  of  the  Cinque  Ports  in 
Ireland  and  shall  have  all  the  liberties  and  franchises  of  the  same.  And 
the  sovereign  shall  have  the  name,  jurisdictions  and  privilages  of  mayor. 

By  p.8. 

\  463 ,  Mbmbrans  6. 

Jan.  25.  Grant  to  the  king's  brother  GFeorge,  duke  of  Clarence,  and  the  heirs  of 
Westminster,  his  body  from  Michaelmas  last  of  the  manors  and  lordships  of  Northam, 
Londey,  Slapton,  Clifton  Dertemouth  Ilerdnesse,  and  Daunde  by  Dert- 
mouth,  CO.  Devon,  and  Valet,  Clevecombe,  Maperton,  Childefrome, 
Haselbere,  Tolre  Porcorum  and  Swere,  co.  Dorset,  the  castle,  lordship  and 
manor  of  Wardare,  co.  Wilts,  the  manors  and  lordships  of  Maunsfeld, 
Lyndeby  and  Ciypston  in  Sherewode,  co.  Nottingham,  and  Little  Lyndford 
and  Wavenden,  co.  Buckingham,  the  castles,  manors  and  lordships  of 
Horeston  and  Bollesover,  co.  Derby,  the  manors  and  lordships  of  Whitle 
and  Warpesden  alias  Warplesden,  co.  Surrey,  the  castle,  manors  and 
lordships  of  Somerton,  Bondeby,  Hellewelle,  two  parts  of  the  lordship  and 
manor  of  Burwell,  two  parts  of  the  fee,  lordship  and  manor  called  *  Percy 
Fee,'  in  Luddeford  in  the  county  of  Lincoln  and  elsewhere,  the  manor  and 
lordship  of  Westle,  co.  Suffolk,  all  manors,  lordships  and  lands  late  of 
Antony  Nuthill  in  Holdemesse,  co.  York,  all  lands^  rents,  services, 
meadows,  pastures  and  woods  in  the  town  and  parish  of  Rosse  and 
elsewhere  in  Holdernesse,  co.  York,  late  of  Thomas,  lord  Roos,  the  manors 
and  lordships  of  Rie,  co.  Hertford,  and  Akebyche,  co.  Norfolk,  late  of 
Henry  Ogerd,  son  and  heir  of  Andrew  Ogerd,  knight,  the  advowson  of 
Stretham,  co.  Surrey,  the  manors  and  lordships  of  Ezton,  Brene,  Kyngesdon 
by  Ylchestre,  Somerton  Erlich,  Shokerwyke,  Batheneston,  Hunspill  Marys, 
Beleweton,  Pensford,  Horsey,  Charleton  Mokerell,  Dunhed  and  Stoke 
Michell,  CO.  Somerset,  and  all  lands,  rents  and  services  of  the  king  in 
Northam,  Londey,  Slapton,  Clifton  Dertemouth  Herdnessc,  Daunde  by 
Dertemouth,  Valet,  Clevecombe,  Swere,  Wardare,  Maunsfeld,  Lyndeby, 
Ciypston,  Little  Lynford,  Wavenden,  Horeston,  Bellesover,  Whitle, 
Warpesden,  Somerton,  Bondeby,  Hellewell,  Burwell,  Luddeford,  Westle, 
Rie  and  Akebyche,  and  the  burgages  and  lands  late  of  Thomas  Tresham, 
knight,  iu  the  town  and  suburb  of  Norhampton,  with  knights'  fees, 
advowsons,  courts  leet,  views  of  frank -pledge,  hundreds,  wapentakes,  fairs, 
markets,  chases,  warrens,  free  customs,  waifs,  strays,  chattels  of  felons  and 
fugitives,  cschciits,  return  of  writs  and  executions,  wreck  of  sea,  liberties, 
franchises  and  other  profits;  10/.  yearly  from  the  farm  of  the  mills  of 
Retford  at  the  bauds  of  the  abbot  of  Welbek  or  the  sheriff  of  Nottingham 
and  Derby,  14/.  yearly  from  the  farm  of  the  manors  of  Derlyngton  and 
Ragenhull  at  the  hands  of  the  men  of  the  towns  of  Derlyngton  and 
Ragenhull  or  the  said  sheriff,  10/.  yearly  from  the  fee  farm  of  the  town  of 
Retford  at  the  hands  of  the  burgesses  or  the  said  sheriff,  10/.  yearly  from 
the  farm  oE  Arnall  at  the  hands  of  Hugh  Nevill,  son  and  heir  of  John 
Nevill,  and  his  heirs  or  tlie  said  sheriff,  14  marks  yearly  from  the  bailiwick 
of  the  honour  of  Peverel  in  the  counties  of  Nottingham  and  Derby  at  the 
hands  of  William  Eland  and  his  heirs  or  the  said  sheriff,  17/.  2s.  yearly 
from  the  farm  of  the  oiEce  of  bailiff  of  the  wapentake  of  Morleston  and 
Lukchurchc,  co.  Derby,  and  the  court  there  at  the  hands  of  the  bailiffs  or 
the  said  sheriff,  12/.  I3s,  4</.  yearly  from  the  farm  or  issues  of  the  manor 
and  lordship  of  Edenstowe,  co.  Nottingham,  at  the  hands  of  the  farmers  of 
the  same  or  the  said  sheriff,  7/.  yearly  from  the  farm,  rent  or  fee  farm  of 
the  town  of  Bulwell  at  the  hands  of  the  tenants  or  the  said  sheriff,  10/. 
yearly  from  the  farm  of  the  mills  of  Nottingham  at  the  hands  of  the 


2  EDWARD  IV.— Paut  II.  227 


1463.  Membrane  6 — cont. 

farmers  or  the  said  sheriff  or  the  sheriff  of  the  town  of  Nottingham' 
88/.  6*.  8cf.  yearly  from  the  rent  of  a  moiety  of  the  town  of  Coventry  ca!le<l 
^  Erles  parte  *  at  the  hands  of  the  prior  and  convent  of  Coventry  or  the 
sheriff  of  the  city  of  Coventry  or  the  sheriff  of  Warwick  and  Leicester,  and 
60/.  yearly  from  the  farm  of  the  town  of  Coventry  and  the  manor  of 
Cheylesmore  at  the  hands  of  the  mayor  and  bailiffs  or  the  sheriff  of 
Coventry  or  the  tenants  of  the  manor  of  Cheylesmore  or  the  sheriff  of 
Warwick  and  Leicester ;  the  reversions  of  the  third  part  of  the  manor  of 
Burwell,  co.  Lincoln,  the  third  part  of  the  fee  called  *  Percy  Fee  *  in 
Luddeford  and  all  other  lands,  rents  and  services  in  Luddeford  and  Barwell 
held  by  Richard  Wodevile  and  Jaqnetta  his  wife  on  the  death  of  the  latter, 
the  manors  and  lordships  of  Barton  uppon  Humbre  and  Stewton,  co. 
Lincoln,  and  all  other  lands,  I'ents  and  services  in  those  places  on  the  death 
of  Katharine,  duchess  of  Norfolk,  and  all  manors,  lordships,  lands,  rents 
and  services  in  Boston,  co.  Lincoln,  the  manor  and  lordship  of  Freston,  co. 
Lincoln,  and  all  lands,  rents  and  services  in  Freston  on  the  death  of  Eleanor, 
duchess  of  Somerset,  with  knights'  fees,  advowsons,  &c.  as  above ;  and  the 
reversion  after  twelve  years  from  9  January  last,  on  which  day  the  king's  uncle 
William  Nevill,  earl  of  Kent,  died  without  male  heir  of  his  body,  of  the 
manors  and  lordship^  of  Crukerne,  co.  Somerset,  Aylesbeare,  Wympell, 
Torrebryan  and  Norton,  co.  Devon,  Ebryngton  and  ITevermj  Courtenay, 
CO.  Dorset,  and  Portloo,  Trelowin,  Northill,  Landrinn,  Oldlawitta,  Penpoll, 
Clerky  (Wc),  Crofthall,  Porypighan  and  Lavyhom,  with  advowsons,  knights' 
fees,  ibc.,  as  granted  to  the  said  earl  by  letters  patent  dated  1  August  last. 

ByK. 


Mbubjunb  5r 
1462. 

July  10.  Exemption  for  life  of  John  Pesmerssh,  king's  esquire,  for  his  good 
Northampton,  service  to  the  king  and  his  father  Richard,  duke  of  York,  now  deceased, 
and  on  account  of  his  age  and  infirmity,  from  continuous  atteudance  in  the 
king's  household,  although  he  shall  be  considered  a  domestic  servant  of 
the  king  and  shall  have  wages,  eatables  and  all  that  is  called  '  le  bowcho  of 
court '  as  the  servants  of  the  officei*s  of  the  household  have,  and  from 
being  put  on  assizes,  juries,  attaints,  recognisances  or  inquisitions,  or 
made  trier  of  them,  mayor,  escheator,  sheriff,  coroner,  bailiff,  constable, 
controller,  collector,  assessor,  taxer  or  surveyor  of  tenths,  fifteenths  or 
other  subsidy,  arrayer  or  trier  of  men-at-arms,  hobelers  or  archers,  or  other 
oflUccr  of  the  king,  against  his  will ;  and  protection,  with  clause  nolumus^ 
for  himself  and  his  tenants,  lands  and  possessions.  By  p.s. 

May  ] .  Grout  to  Thomas  Blouot,  esquuT.,  and  the  heirs  male  of  his  body  from 

Weitminster.  Michaelmas  last,  for  his  good  service  to  the  king  and  his  father  Bichard, 
duko  of  York,  of  the  manor  of  Melton  Boos,  co.  Lincoln,  and  all  lands, 
rents,  and  services  in  Melton  Boos,  Elsham,  Wrawby,  Barnetby,  Glaunford 
Brigg,  Wotton,  Ulceby,  Kyrnyngton  and  Bumeham,  co.  Lincoln,  late  of 
Thomas  Boos,  late  lord  Boos,  knight,  and  a  manor  and  lands,  rents  and 
services  in  Lynewode,  Teleby  and  Thoresway,  co.  Lincoln,  called  *de 
Bayous  Fee,'  late  of  William,  late  viscount  Beaumont,  in  the  king's  hands 
by  reason  of  their  forfeitures,  with  bondmen,  knight's  fees,  warrens, 
franchises,  leets,  wapentakes,  views  of  frank-pledge  and  other  liberties. 

ByK. 

Sept.  18.        Grant  to  John  Stapelhill  and  his  heirs  and  assigns  of  the*  manors  of 

Wi8tmin«tcr.  Melhujssh  and  Fulford  and  all  manors,  messuages,  lands,  rents,  services, 

meadows  and  pastures  in  Lystenesdon,   Owelehole,  Ferantes,  Brokedon, 

Donsford,  Smytheoote,  Fursiegh,  Crokkernewill,  Boryngton,  Lampford, 

Wysdomsy  Spicer,  Westwaterland,  Bubehaie,   UptoQi  Mersshi    Belston, 

p  2 


228  CALENDAR  OP  PATENT  BOLLS. 


14462.  Membrane  5 — carU^ 

Groldewortby,  Hopernewode,  Haske  and  Parkerigge,  the  park  of  Fulford 
and  the  advowson  of  the  church  of  Belston,  co.  Devon,  late  of  Baldwin 
Fulford,  knight,  rebel,  attainted  of  high  treason,  with  courts  leet,  fran- 
chises and  liberties  and  appurtenances,  to  hold  bj  fealty  only  as  of  the 
value  of  40  marks  yearly.  By  K. 

Sept.  9.  Grant  to  the  king's  brother  Richard,  duke  of  Gloucester,  and  the  heirs 

Westminster,  of  his  body  of  all  castles,  manors,  lordships,  lands  and  other  posses- 
sions in  England  and  Wales  and  the  marches  of  Wales,  late  of  Robert, 
late  lord  of  Hungerford,  hi  the  king's  hands  by  his  treason  and  rebellion, 
the  lordship  of  Chirke  with  its  members  and  appurtenances  in  the  marches 
of  Wales  and  elsewhere  in  England,  late  of  Joan,  late  countess  of  Arundell, 
and  the  reversions  of  such  of  the  above  as  may  have  been  granted  for  life 
or  a  term  of  years  to  other  persons,  with  knights'  fees,  fealties,  advowsons, 
franchises,  liberties,  customs,  v/ards,  marriages,  reliefs,  suits,  escheats,  year, 
day  and  waste,  waif,  stray,  soc  and  sac,  tholl  and  them,  infangtheff  and 
outfangtheff,  sheriff's  turns,  wreck  of  sea  and  divers  other  specified  rights. 

By  K. 

Vacated  by  surrender  and  cancelled  by  verbal  order  of  the  king  to  the 
chancellor^  30  March^  3  Edward  IV* 

June  20.         Grant  for  life  to  John  Rigby  of  a  parcel  of  land  of  6  acres  called  <  le 

Westminrter.  Spitell  Grove '  in  Berkyng,  co.  Essex,  not  exceeding  the  yearly  value 

of  4*.  By  p.s. 

Oct.  2-5.         Mandate  to  the  escheator  in  the  county  of  Wilts  for  the  restitution  of 

Westminster,  the  temporalities  of  the  abbey  of  Malmesbury,  of  the  order  of  St.  Benedict, 

to  Dan  John  Ayly,  monk,  whose  election  as  abbot  B.  bishop  of  Salisbury 

has  confirmed.  By  p.s. 

The  like  to  the  following : — 

The  escheator  in  the  county  of  Gloucester  and  the  marches  of  Wales 
adjoining. 

Thomas  Cooke,  mayor  of  London  and  escheKtor  in  the  same  city. 

John  Wykeham,  mayor  of  Bristol  and  escheator  in  the  same  town. 
Writ  de  intendendo  in  pursuance  to  the  tenants.  By  p.s. 

Membrane  4. 

May  1.  Impeximus  and  confirmation  to  Theobald  Gorges,  knight,  son  and  heir 

Westminster,  of  Thomas  Gorges,  son  and  heir  of  Theobald  Grorges,  of  a  charter  dated 
at  Westminster,  11  July,  36  Edward  III.  [Charter  Boll,  36  Edward  III. 
No,  14,]  inspecting  and  confirming  to  the  last-named  Theobald,  kinsman  of* 
Elena  de  Gorges,  a  chaiter  dated  at  Berwick  on  Tweed,  30  July,  19  Edward  I. 
being  a  grant  to  her  and  her  heirs  of  a  market  weekly  and  a  fair  yearly  at 
her  manor  of  Wrockeshale,  co.  Somerset,  and  free  warren  in  her  demesne 
lands  of  the  said  manor  and  Burton,  co.  Somerset,  and  Knightetone,  co. 
Southampton.  For  20;.  paid  in  the  hanaper. 

May  8.  Licence,  for  2  marks  paid  in  the  lionaper,  for  John  Markhani,  knight, 

Westminster.  Nicholas  Ayssheton,  John  Bluet,  Thomas  Canynges,  Thomas  Yonge  and 
Philip  Malpas  to  grant  to  William  Say,  clerk,  John  Dynham,  esquire, 
Thomas  Tyrell,  knight,  William  Tyrell  of  Beche,  knight,  John  Cheyne  of 
Cambridgeshire,  esquire,  John  Boteler  of  Hertfordshire,  esquire,  Henry 
Sotehill,  Thomas  Urswyk,  Thomas  Colt,  John  Grene  of  Essex,  Ralph 
Grey  the  elder  of  Hertfordshire,  Walter  WrytyU,  esquire,  Henry  Barley, 
esquire,  William  York,  Thomas  Braughyng  and  Thomas  Prowet,  clerk,  in 
fee  simple  the  manor  of  Lyston  Overhall,  co.  Essex,  held  in  chief. 

March  20.        Grant  to  John  le  Scrop,  knight^  of  the  custody  of  all  castles,  manors, 

Westminster,    lordships,  lands    and  tenements  late  of    Ralph    Bygod,    knight,    tenant 

in  chief,  during  the  minority  of    Ralph  his  kinsman    and  heir,    with 


2  EDWARD  IV.— Part  II.  229 


1462.  Membrane  4 — cont. 

the  marriage  of  the  latter,  finding  him  a  competent  sustenance,  with  the 
like  during  the  minority  of  the  next  heir  should  he  die  a. minor,  and  bo 
from  heir  to  heir.  By  p.8. 

JAarch  18.        Appointment,  during  pleasure,  of  John  Wenlok  of  Wenlok,  knight,  John 

Westminster.   Fogge,  knight,  John  Scot,  knight,  and  John  Say  to  the  custody  of  all  lands 

late  of  John,  late  earl  of  Oxford,  in  the  king's  hands  by  his  forfeiture, 

answering  at  the   Exchequer   for  the  issues,   with  full  power  of  levying 

rents  and  of  distraint  in  default.  By  C. 

.  May  17.  Grant  for  life  to  William  Skipwith,  king's  knight,  of  the  office  of  the 

Westminster,  stewardship  of  the  king's  manor  and  lordship  of  Calsby,  co.  Lincoln,  and 

all  other  lands  late  of  Henry,  late  earl  of  Northumberland,  within  that 

county,  with  the  fees  pertaining  to  the  office.  By  p.s. 

Jane  26,  Grant  to  Robert  Toke  of  the  city  of  London,  ^  iremonger,'  possessor  of  the 
Westminster,  fourth  part  of  a  ship  called  le  Margarete  of  Ipswich,  two  parts  of  which 
the  king  has  of  the  grant  of  William  Baldri,  in  recompense  of  the  said  fourth 
part,  which  he  intends  to  grant  to  the  king,  and  of  the  losses  which  he  incurred 
in  unloading  his  merchandise  from  the  ship  at  the  king's  command,  of  100 
marks  yearly  for  4  years  from  Michaelmas  last  from  all  customs  and  sub- 
sidies in  the  port  of  Ipswich  and  ports  and  places  adjacent  and  the  customs 
and  subsidies  of  wools,  hides,  wool-fells,  tin,  lead,  and  other  merchandise  in 
the  port  of  London.  By  p.s. 

June  28.  Whereas  Maurice  Denys,  esquire,  sheriff  of  Gloucester,  has  returned 
Westminster,  before  the  king  at  Westminster  on  the  morrow  of  the  Purification  last 
that  he  summoned  Stephen^  abbot  of  St.  Mary,  Lanternam,  in  the  marches 
of  Wales  adjoining  the  county  of  Gloucester,  of  the  Cistercian  order,  in  the 
diocese  of  Llandafi^,  Thomas,  abbot  of  St.  Mary's,  Tyntern,  in  the  marches 
of  Wales,  Louis  ap  Howell  of  Lanternam,  cliaplain,  and  Thomas  Philips, 
fellow  monk  of  the  said  abbot  of  Lanternam,  by  a  writ  of  Fremunire  facias 
under  the  statute  in  Parliament  at  Winchester,  16  Richard  II.  obtained  on 
28  November,  1  Edward  IV.  by  John,  abbot  of  Tewkesbury,  to  appear 
before  the  king  on  the  said  morrow  of  the  Purification  to  answer  him  and 
the  said  abbot  of  Tewkesbury  touching  certain  specified  charges,  and  they 
came  not  and  were  placed  without  the  king's  protection  and  their 
goods  and  lands  forfeited ;  the  king  now  pardons  the  said  abbot  of  Tyntern 
for  this  offence  and  grants  back  his  lands  and  possessions  and  restores  him 
to  his  protection.  By  p.s.  and  for  2Qs.  paid  in  the  hanaper. 

MSMBRANB  3. 

Nov.  2.  Charter  to  the  clergy  of  the  realm,  exempting  criminal  clerks  from  the 

Westminster   jurisdiction  of  officers  of  the  crown,  and  annulling  certain  suits  against  the 

Palace.       clergy,   notwithstanding  the  statute  in   Parliament    at  Westminster,    16 

Jiichard  IL  and  other  statutes.     [Fcedera.']  By  K, 

Membranes  2  and  1. 

Aug.  1.  Inspeximus  and  confirmation  to  the  mayor  and  citizens  of  Cicestre,  co. 

Westminster.   Sussex,  of  the  following : — 

1.  Letters  patent  dated  1  March,  20  Henry  YI.  inspecting  and  confirming 
letters  patent  dated  20  February,  2  Henry  IV.  inspecting  and  con- 
firming .letters  patent  dated  \2  January,  2  Richard  II.  inspecting 
and  confirming  the  following : — 

1.)  Letters  patent  dated  24  September,  10  Edward  III. 
[2.)  A  charter  dated  at  Westminster,  10  March,  11  Edward  III. 
Charter  Boll,  11  Edward  IIL  No.  77,]  inspecting  and  con- 
irmiqg  a  charter  dated  at  WestminsteTi  15  July,  10  Edward  II. 


(i 


230  CALENDAB  OF  PATENT  BOLLS. 


X462.  Membranes  2  and  l-^-cont* 

(3.)  Letters  patent  dated 26  June,  50  Edward  III.  inspecting  and 
confirming  letters  patent  of  Henry  II. 
2.  Letters  patent  dated  3  September,  30  Henrj  YL  being  a  grant  to 
them  of  divers  liberties.  For  10  marks  paid  in  the  hanaper. 

Oct.  16.         Mandate  to  all  bailiffs  and  others  to  permit  John  Spycer,  tailor,  a  native 
Westminster,   of  St.  John's  town  in  Scotland,  staying  at  Byrfeld  in  England,  who  has 
taken  an  oath  of  fealty,  to  inhabit  the  realm  peaceably  and  enjoy  his 
goods. 

Aug.  13.        Pardon  to  Hichaid  Spicer  late  of  Lemynge,  co.  Kent,  *  husbondman,'  for 

WeBtmiuster.   his  abjuration  of  the  realm  before  Hamo  Bele,  late  one  of  the  coroners  of 

Henry  VI.  in  that  couoty,  and  for  all  felonies  committed  by  him.       By  p.s. 

Oct.  26.  Grant  for  life  to  William  Sandes  and  Thomas  Combe,  esqnires,  of  the 

Westminster,  custody  of  the  king's  launds  within  his  park  of  Claryngdon,  co.  Wilts,  alias 

*  le  laundership,'  of  that  park,  receiving  fees  as  in  the  last  year  of  Edward 

III.  and  the  first  of  Ilichard  II.  at  the  hands  of  the  sheriff.  By  p.8. 

Oct.  30.         The  like  to  the  king's  ser^itor  John  Oonstable,  knight,  of  two  parts  of 

Westminster,   the  manor  of  Bosse  within  Holdernesso,  co.  York,  late  of  Thomas,  late  lord 

of  Roos.  By  pji. 

Oct.  29.  The  like  to  the  king's  servant  Richard  Hunte  of  the  ofiico  of  parker  and 

Westminster,   the  custody  of  the  kingfs  park  of  Hendeley  in  le  Hethe,  with  the  accostomed 

fees.  By  p.s. 

Nov.  3.  The  like  to  James  Pekham  of  an  annuity  of  10/.  from  the  issues  of  the 

Westminster,   subsidy  and  ulnage  of  cloths  and  the  moiety  of  the  forfeiture  of  the  same  in 

the  city  of  London*  By  p.s. 

Sept.  30.         The  like  to  Edmund  Haute  of  an  annuity  of  20  marks  from  the  issues 
Westminster,  of  the  hundreds  and  lordships  of  Middelton  and  Merden,  co.  Kent.    By  p.8. 

1463,  Membranb  25d. 

Feb.  22.  *  Commission  to  Geoffi  ey  Gate,  knight,  John  Payn,  mayor  of  Southampton, 
Westminster.  Robert  Bagworth,  vv  illiam  Baybroke,  Hugh  Hunte  and  William  WiUiyeli 
to  enquire  by  jury  of  the  county  of  Southampton  into  the  report  that  two 
ships  of  ScUmd,  viz.,  a  hulk  of  the  portage  of  250  tuns  of  which  Lem' 
Thomson  is  master  and  a  ^  never '  of  the  portage  of  70  tuns  of  which 
a  certain  Oristicn  is  master,  laden  with  divers  goods  and  merchandise 
of  the  king's  enemies  of  foreign  parts,  were  captured  by  the  king's 
subjects  of  Dertmouth,  notwithstanding  the  ancient  friendship  between  the 
king  and  the  men  of  Seland ;  and  also  concerning  the  abstraction  of  any 
iron  in  any  vessel  of  Spain  belonging  to  the  king. 

Feb.  23.         Commission  to  the  mayor  of  Canterbury,  John  Greneford  and  the  sheriff 
Westminster,  of  Kent  to  arrest  John  Gybbe  alias  Gybbes  and  bring  him  before  the  king 
in  Chanceiy. 

Feb.  20.         Appointment  of  Thomas  Ive  to  the  scrutiny  of  wools  grown  within  the 

Westminster,  realm  to  be  exported  to  foreign  parts,  with  power  to  search  any  places, 

houses,  galleys,  ships  and  vessels  in  which  they  may  be  placed  and  to  seize 

all  that  have   been  forced,  clacked,  bearded  or  cleaned  contrary  to  the 

ordinances  or  statutes. 

Mbmbranb  23cf. 
1462. 

Sept.  28.        Commission  to  Bichard  Foweler,  esquire,  Edmund  Bede,  esquire,  Robert 
Westminster.   Fitz  Elys,  esquire,  and  John  Batys,  *  gentilman,'  to  arrest  I?obert  Sazten, 
Robert  Bunkle,  John  Dalahowo,  Richard  Harreys  and  Edmund  Warde, 
ancl.bring  them  before  the  king  in  Chancery. 


2  EDWARD  IV Part  II.  231 


1402.  Membrane  23d--cont. 

Oct.  30.  Commission  to  Ralph  Grajstok  of  Graystok,  knight,  Robert  Constable, 
Westminster,  knight,  John  Constable,  knight,  Robert  Hiliard,  John  Ferebj,  John 
Grene,  William  Eland,  John  Dej,  Robert  Taveruer  and  the  major,  alder- 
men, and  sheriffs  of  Ejogeston  on  Hull  to  take  all  ships  suitable  for  the 
king's  fleet  in  the  port  of  Kjngeston  on  Hull  and  ports  and  places  adjacent 
and  meat,  fish,  flour,  beans,  peas,  and  other  victuals,  and  masters  and 
mariners  for  the  same.  By  K.  &  C, 

MSMBRANB  22d. 

Oct.  12.  Commission  to  John  Chejne,  esquire,  John  Sydenham  the  elder,  esquire, 
Westminster.  John  Wadham,  esquire,  John  Fitz  James,  esquire,  Robert  Stowell,  esquire, 
John  Sydenham  the  younger,  John  Bolour,  esquire,  John  Bekenyl], 
William  Kailway  and  John  Porter  to  enquire  what  lands  Joan  late  the 
wife  of  Hugh  Champernon,  esquire,  held  in  chief  or  otherwise  in  the 
counties  of  Somerset  and  Dorset  on  the  day  of  her  death,  and  who  io  her 
next  heir,  and  to  take  the  lands  into  the  king's  hands. 

Sept.  13.  The  like  to  John  Wenlok,  knight,  Thomas  Hoo,  esquire,  John  Lewe- 

Wettminster.  ken  ore,  esquire,  John  Goryug  the  younger,  and  John  Stodeley,  to  enquire 

what  lands  John,  late  duke  of  Norfolk,  tenant  in  chief,  held  in  the  counties 

of  Surrey  and  Sussex  on  the  day  of  his  death  and  who  is  his  next  heir,  and 

to  take  the  lands  into  the  king's  hands. 

Membrane  2id. 

Nov.  22.         Commission  to  the  mayor,  sheriffs  and  bailiffs  of  the  town  of  Suthampton 

Westminster,  and  Nicholas  Southcote,  serjeant-at-arms,  to  seize  all  goods  and  merchandise 

lately  brought  to  the  port  of  the  town  in  a  carfack  of  Venice,  of  which 

Nicholas  Paschaligo  is  patron,  or  belonging  to  the  carrack  in  any  ships  of 

the  town,  and  to  keep  them  in  safe-custody. 

Sept.  22.  Commission  to  John  Audeley  of  Audeley,  knight,  John  Stourton  of 
Westminster.  Stourton,  knight,  Humphrey  Stafford  of  Suthwyk,  knight,  John  Cheyne 
of  Pynne,  Robert  Stowell,  Robert  Ware,  John  Fytz  James  and  John 
Porter  to  enquire  by  oath  of  good  men  of  the  county  of  Somerset  what 
castles,  manors,  lands,  and  other  possessions  Elizabeth,  late  the  wife  of 
James  Lotorell,  knight,  held  in  jointure  with  her  husband  on  29  December ; 
on  complaint  by  her  that,  whereas  her  husband  wns  attainted  of  high 
treason  by  virtue  of  an  act  of  Parliament  at  Westminster  and  all  the 
possessions  which  belonged  to  him  on  30  November,  39  Henry  VI.  were 
forfeited,  ceitain  ofi&cers  of  the  king  do  not  peimit  her  to  enjoy  her 
jointure,  although  she  is  a  loyal  subject. 

Membrane  I8d. 

Nov.  6.  Appointment  of  the  king's  kinsman  Richard,  earl  of  Warwick,  as  his 

Westminster,     lieutenant  to  raise  his  standard  in  the  north  against  his  enemies  of  France 

and  Scotland,   who  are  disturbing  the  tranquillity  of  the  realm  by  the 
procurance  of  Henry  YL  and  Margaret  his  consort  and  otiier  rebels. 

ByK.  by  word  of  mouth. 

Dec.  3.  Commission  to  Thomas.  Oooke,  the  mayor,  and  the  sheriffs  of  London, 

Bisham.  the  mayor  and  bailiffs  of  Sandwich  and  the  bailiffs  of  Ipswich  and  Jerne- 
muth,  on  complaint  by  Conrad  Lurnick  and  Peter  Monnick,  merchants  oi 
Almain,  that  when  they  came  to  England  near  the  port  of  Ipswich  with  a 
ship  of  Anstradam  in  Holand,  of  which  John  Moenson  is  master  and 
possessor,  laden  with  *  luckmoos  '  for  dying  cloths,  relying  on  the  friend- 
ship between  the  king  and  the  men  of  Holand^  certain  pirates  in  a  ship  of 


232  OALENDAB  OF  PATENT  BOLLS. 


1462.  Membrane  18rf— con*. 

war  of  the  realm  of  which  Henry  Shaghen  was  master,  seized  and  detained 
the  said  ship  and  merchandise,  to  seize  the  said  ship  with  all  its  gear  and 
goods  and  arrest  and  imprison  the  offenders. 

Dec.  7.  Appointment,  during  pleasure,  of  William  Kestrjk  to  array  all  ahle- 

W^cstminster.  bodied  men-at-arms,  hobelers  and  archors  of  the  Isle  of  Purhuyk  for  the 
safe-custody  of  the  same  and  of  the  kiDg*s  castle  of  Corffe  against  the 
king's  enemies  of  France  and  Brittany  and  other  foreign  parts  and  to  set 
Avatches  and  signs  called  *  bekyns.' 

Dec.  21.         Commission  to  the  justices  of  the  peace  and  the  sheriff  of  the  county  of 
Westminster.   Essex  and  William  Phelipp,  John  Ramsey  and  John  Wynton  to  arrest 
William  Lacy  late  of  Boy  nam,  co.  Essex,  laborer,'  and  bring  him  before 
the  king  in  Chancery. 

Dec.  26.  Appointment,  during  pleasure,  of  Stephen  Clampard,  king's  smith,  to 
Wegt  minster,  take  iron  and  other  kinds  of  metal  for  cannons  and  other  habiliments  and 
timber,  sulphur,  saltpetre, '  cole/  stones  and  coals  for  the  same,  and  also 
workmen  of  that  mystery,  makers  of  cannons,  stone-cutters,  carpenters, 
smiths  and  other  labourers  in  the  city  and  suburbs  of  London  and 
elsewhere. 

1463. 

Jan.  3.  Commission  to  John  Bourghchier  of  Barnes,  knight,  to  array  all  the  king's 

Westminster,  able-bodied  subjects  of  the  counties  of  Surrey  and  Sussex  against  his 
enemies. 

Jan.  12.  Commission  to  William  Bourghchier  of  Fitz  Waren,  knight,  Humphrey 
Westminster.  Stafford  of  Suthwyk,  knight,  Philip  Courtenay,  knight,  Charles  Dynham, 
Walter  Balegh,  John  Giffard,  John  Orchard,  Henry  Pomeray,  Thomas 
Gille  the  younger,  William  Coffyn  and  John  Specot  to  arrest  and  imprison 
certain  persons  who  are  trying  to  excite  dissensions  within  the  county  of 
Devon. 

The  like  to  John  More,  John  Betty,  William  Cremyll  and  John  Kelly 
within  the  city  of  Exeter. 

Jan.  13.  Commission  to  the  mayor,  aldermen  and  sheriffs  of  the  town  of  Notting- 

Westminster.  ham  to  inquire  touching  the  day  and  place  of  the  delivery  of  a  writ  of  the  king 
by  Thomas  Alestre,  the  bearer  of  it,  to  Thomas  Babyngton,  and  the 
bearing  of  the  latter  on  receipt  of  the  writ. 

• 

Jan.  17.  Commission  to  the  king's  kinsman  Bichard,  earl  of  Warwick,  warden  of 
Westminster,  the  Cinque  Ports,  or  his  lieutenant,  and  the  mayor  of  Sandwich,  on  com- 
plaint by  Warner  Buneke  and  John  Bowman,  merchants  of  Almain  and 
possessors  of  a  ship  of  the  city  of  Hambergh  in  Almain  of  which  Robert 
Feune  is  master,  that  when  they  came  near  Jernemouth  Boad  with  the  said 
ship  freighted  with  divers  goods  and  merchandise,  viz.  19  tuns  and  1  pipe 
of  woad,  8  hundreds  of  wax,  20  hundreds  of  iron,  8  feirdels  of  linen  cloth, 
5  fardels  of  ^fungia,'  500/.  worth  of  linen  thread,  a  chest  with  glass, 
4  chests  with  vestures,  utensils  and  other  necessaries,  10  tables  called  ^  centers ' 
and  a  barrel  of  antimony,  to  the  value  of  452/.  relying  on  the  friendship 
between  the  king  and  the  men  of  Almain,  certain  pirates  in  a  ship  of  war 
of  the  realm,  of  which  Henry  Shaghen  was  master,  seized  it  and  carried  it  off 
to  Sandwich,  to  seize  the  said  ship  of  Almain  with  its  gear  and  goods  and 
to  arrest  and  imprison  the  offenders. 

Feb.  13.         Commission  to  John  Wyngfeld,  knight,  John  Hevenyngham,   knight, 
Westminster.  Thomas  Brewes,  John  Alyngton,  John  Jermyn,  John  Sulyard  and  Regi- 
nald Bous  to  enquire  into  all  trespasses,  oppressions,  misprisions,  extortions, 
tnaintenancies,  embraceries  and  deceptions  committed  by  John  Straungc  of 
Brampton,  co.  Suffolk,  esquire,  witMn  that  county. 


2  EDWARD  IV,— Pabt  II.  233 


1462.  Mmmbranb  V7d. 

Nov.  18.  Commission  to  the  abbot  of  Tavistoke,  Walter  Balegh,  Thomas  Clemens 
We8tminiter.  and  Alvred  Comeburgh  to  enquire  into  the  complaint  of  John  Broun, 
Thomas  Kylgrewe  and  John  Countree  of  Fowj  that  whereas  they  captured 
a  certain  William  Bojne,  Bnton,  and  others  of  the  king's  enemies  of 
Brittany  at  sea  and  took  them  to  Fowj,  where  the  said  William  still 
remains  as  pledge  for  himself  and  the  others  for  the  sum  of  ICO  marks  for 
their. expenses  in  prison,  and  John  Hatys  of  Nanntes  in  Brittany,  attorney 
of  the  said  William,  freighted  30  tuns  of  wine  of  the  growth  of  the  duchy 
of  Brittany  in  a  carvel  of  Nauntes  at  Nauntes  fur  the  payment  pf  the  said 
sum  and  brought  them  to  the  port  of  Plymmouth,  the  said  wine  was  seized  and 
detained  by  Johh  Hill,  Henry  Drewe,  John  Camewenek,  Thomas  Gale  and 
Geoffrey  Yeele  by  force  of  a  commission  of  the  king  because  it  was  asserted 
by  certain  persons  to  be  wine  of  the  growth  of  the  duchy  of  Aquitaine,  to 
the  great  loss  of  themselves  and  the  prisoners,  although  they  are  prepared 
to  prove  that  it  was  of  the  growth  of  the  duchy  of  Brittany. 

1463. 

Feb.  10.         Commission  of  oyer  and  terminer  to  Nicholas  Ayssheton  and  Walter 
Westminster.  Moyle  touching  all  treasons  committed  within  the  counties  of  Devon  and 
ComwalL 

Feb.  27.         Commission  to  Hugh  Courtenay,  knight,  John  Arundell,  esquire,  Boger 

Westminster.  Denham,  esquire,  Charles  Denham,  enquire,  Walter  Baly,  esquire,  and  John 

Merifeld,  esquire,  to  enquire  what  lands  Bichard  Talbot   held  in  chief  in 

the  counties  of  Devon  and  Cornwall  and  on  what  day  he  died  and  who  is  his 

heir,  and  to  take  the  said  lands  into  the  king's  hands.   % 

March  2.  The  like  to  Thomas  Billyng,  Ralph  Hastynges,  esquire,  Thomas  Palmer, 
Westminster.  Robert  Ingylton,  Walter  Maun^ll,  John  Dyve  and  Thomas  Wylde  to 
enquire  what  lands  Thomas  Grene,  knight,  held  in  the  county  of 
Northampton  on  the  day  of  his  death  and  who  is  his  next  heir  and  who 
has  occupied  the  said  lands  since  his  death,  and  to  take  them  into  the 
king's  hands;  as' it  appears  by  an  inquisition  taken  at  Northampton  Castle 
on  8  October  last  before  John  Langeley,  escheator  in  the  county,  that  he 
only  held  the  custody  of  the  forest  of  Whytelwode,  co.  Northampton, 
rendering  to  the  king  33#.  Ad.  yearly,  but  the  king  is  given  to  understand 
that  he  held  certain  lands  besides, 

Mbmbrane  16cf. 

Feb.  10.         Commission  to  John  Butte,  mayor  of  Norwich,  and  the  justices  of  tlie 
Westminster,  peace  in  the  same  city  to  enquire  touching  all  treasons,  felonies,  trespasses  or 
other  crimes  committed  by  Thomas  Brygge  of  Weseton,  co.  Norfolk,  within 
the  said  city  and  liberty. 

1462.  MfiMBRANB  I4ef. 

Nov.  21.  Commission  of  oyer  and  terminer  to  the  king's  kinsman,  Richard,  earl  of 
Westminster.  Warwick,  John,  earl  of  Worcester,  and  William,  earl  of  Kent,  and  John 
Nevile  of  Montague,  knight,  —  Scrop  of  Bolton,  knight,  Ralph  Graystok 
of  Graystok,  knight^  William  Hastyngez  of  Hastyngez,  knight,  John 
Wenlok  of  Wenlok,  knight,  Thomas  Lumley  of  Lnnuey,  knight,  Robert 
Ogle  of  Ogle,  knight,  John  Markham,  knight,  Robert  Danby,  knight, 
Richard  Byngham,  John  Nedeham,  Ralph  Grav,  knight^  James  Strange- 
weys,  knight,  John  Conyers,  knight,  Henry  SotehiU,  Roger  Thorneton, 
Nicholas  Girlyngton  and  Alan  Birde,  mayor  of  Newcastle  on  Tyne, 
touching  certain  treasons,  insurrections,  rebellions,  felonies,  and  other 
crimes  committed  within  the  county  of  Northumberland  and  the  said  town 
and  the  liberty  of  the  same. 


234  CALENDAR  OF  PATENT  BOLLS. 


1468.  Membrane  lid — cont, 

Jan.  28.  CommiBsion  to  William  Stourton  of  Stourton,  knight,  Maurice  Berkeley, 
Westminster,  esquire,  and  Nicholas  Southcote,  one  of  the  king's  serjeants-at-arms,  to 
inquire  into  a  controversj  which  has  arisen  before  the  king  in  Chancery 
}>etween  John  Halle  of  Salisbury,  merchant,  possessor  of  a  carvel  called  le 
James  of  Pole,  and  certain  merchants  of  Brittany  in  a  ship  of  Brittany 
called  le  John  de  Garaunt  under  a  safe  conduct  of  the  king,  touching  the 
foifeiture  or  breach  of  the  said  safe-conduct  and  the  capture  of  the  latter 
ship. 

MSMBRJNB  lid. 

Jan.  28.  Duplicate  entry  of  the  preceding  commission. 

Wcitmioster. 

MSMBRANB   lOd, 

Jan.  23.  Commission   to  Richard  Lowe,  llobeit  Langrigge,  John  Thorowgode, 

Westminster.  Henvy  Wodfall  and  Thomas  FitzJohn  to  arrest  William  Cokerham,  canon 

of  the  monastery  of  Waltham  Holy  Cross,  of  the  order  of  St.  Augustine, 

and  bring  him  before  the  king  in  Chancery  or  before  John,  abbot  of  the 

said  monastery. 

Feb.  12.  The  like  to  all  justices  of  the  peace,  sheriffs,  mayors,  bailiffs,  constables 

W(.'Btminster.  and  other  officers  and  ministers  of  the  king  to  arrest  and  imprison  William 
Gilbeiii,  chaplain,  William  Creswell,  chaplain,  George  Orell,  Richard  Cres- 
well,  John  Thorneton,  John  More,  John  Browene,  John  Giles,  John  Mores, 
John  Trowte,  John  Lokyngton,  friar,  alias  Robert  Midelton,  Robert 
Chapeleyn,  John  Hamelton  and  John  Payntour  of  Pulbegh,  co.  Sussex. 

1462.  Mbmbranb  5d. 

Oct.  20.  Commission  to  William  Duke,  John  Hill,  Henry  Drewe,  John  Came- 

Westminster,  wenok,  Thomas  Gale  and  G^oflPrey  Veel  to  enquire  whether  any  wines  had 
had  been  brought  to  the  port  and  town  of  Plymmouth  contrary  to  the  late 
ordinance  of  the  king  that  no  one  should  bring  any  wine  of  the  growth  of 
Bordeaux,  Bayonne  or  Rochelle  or  any  other  place  of  the  duchy  of  Aqui- 
taine  from  thence  to  England  or  to  other  places  under  the  king's  obedience, 
under  colour  of  safe-conduct  or  otherwise,  at*cer  31  August  last,  except  buch 
as  might  be  taken  by  the  king's  subjects  as  prizes  at  sea,  and  to  seize  such 
wine  as  may  have  been  brought. 


235 


2  EDWARD  IV.— PART  III. 


1432.  Membranes  Zl  and  30. 

Not.  17.         Inspeximus  and  confirmatiou  to  the  abbess  and  nuns  of  Godstow  of  a 

Westminster,  cliarter  dated  at  Woodstock,  12  August,  6  Richard  IL  [Charter  Roll^ 

6-6  Richard  IL  No.  12,]   inspecting  and  confirming  a  charter  dated  at 

Woodstock, 24  July,  4  Edward  III.  {Charter  RoU,^ Edtoard  III. No.  62,] 

inspecting  and  confirming  the  following : — 

1.  A  cliai*ter  of  Henrj  II.  dated  at  Stansted. 

2.  A  charter  dated  at  Oxford,  27  December,  60  Henry  III. 

8.  A  charter  dated  at  Nottingham,  27   December,   10    Edward    II. 
inspecting  and  confirming  the  following : — 

(1.)  A  charter  dated  at   Oxford,  22  January,   15   Henry   III. 

{Charter  Roily  15  Henry  III.  m.  10.] 
(2.)  A  charter  dated  at  Westminster,  17*  June,  18  Edward  I. 
inspecting  and  confirming  a  charter  dated  at  Woodstock, 
II  July,  86  Henry  III.  [Charter  Roll,  35  Henry  III.  m.  4,] 
inspecting  and  confirming  a  charter  dated  at  Winchester, 
17  October,  1  Richard  I.  [Monasticon.^ 
(8.)  A  charter  of  Matilda  the  Empress  dated  at  Devizes. 

For  40f .  paid  in  the  hanaper. 

Membrane  29. 

Aug.  20.        In$peximus    and  confirmation  to  Henry  Sever,  the  warden,  and  the 
Wettminster.  chaplains  of  the  chantry  founded  by  John,  late  archbishop  of  Canterbury, 
at  Stretford  on  Avene  of  a  chai'ter  dated  at  Westminster,  26  March, 
11  Edward  III.  [^Charter  Roll,  U  Edward  III.  No.  27.] 

For  11  marks  paid  in  the  hanaper. 


Membrane  28. 

July  4.         Inspeximus  and  confirmation  to  Richard,  the  prior,  and  the  canons  of 

Westminster.  Maxstoke,  of  letters  patent  dated  20  August,  2  Richard  II.  inspecting  and 

confirming  a  charter  dated  at  Westminster,  1  September  11  Edward  III. 

[Charter  Roll,  11  Edward  III.  No»  9.]        For  100«.  paid  in  the  hanaper. 

Membrane  27. 

June  12.        Inspeximus  and  confirmation  to  the  warden  and  scholars  of  ^  Seinte  Marie 

Wesiminster.   College  of  Wynchestre*  (New  College)  in  Oxford,  founded  by  William  of 

Wykeham,  bishop   of  Winchester,  of  a  charter  dated  at  Westminster, 

26  September,  19  Richard  II.  being  a  grant  to  them  of  divers  liberties. 

[Charter  Roll^  18-19  Richard  II.  No.  8.] 

For  10  marks  pud  in  the  hanaper. 

Membranes  26  and  26. 

March  6.        Inspeximus  and  confirmation  to  Thomas,  bishop  of  London,  of  the 
Wettmintter.   following:— 

1.  A  charter  dated  at  Walton,  2S  June,  12  Edward  IIL  [Charter  Roll, 
12  Edward  IIL  No.  13J  inspecting  and  confirming  with  additions 


236  CALENDAR  OF  PATENT  ROLLS. 


1462.  Membranes  26  and  26 — cont, 

to  R.  then  bishop,  and  the  dean  and  chapter  of  St.  Faurs,  London, 

he  following :— ^ 
(1.)  A  charter  dated  at  Lincoln,  6  February,  9  Edward  II.  [^Charter 
Roily  9   Edward  IT.  No.  37,]  inspecting  and  confirming  a 
charter  of  confirmation  of  Edward  I.  of  the  following : — 

a.  A  charter  of  Edward  the  Confessor. 
h.  Four  charters  of  William  I. 

c.  Two  charters  of  Henry  I. 
J.  A  charter  dated  at  Shorharo,  16  June,  1  John. 
e.  Letters  patent  dated  15  May,  53  Henry  III. 
/.  Letters  patent  dated  10  June,  13  Edward  L 
(2.)  A  charter  of  William  II. 
(3.)  A  charier  of  Henry  I. 
2.  A  charter  dated  at  Eltham,  26  July,  19  Richard  11.  [Charter  Roll^ 
18-19  Richard  IL  No.  11.]  For  100*.  paid  in  the  hanaper. 

Membranes  24  and  23. 

July  2S.         Inspeximus  and  confirmation  to  the  Abbot  and  convent  of  Beaulieu  Regis 
Wostmioster.  of  the  following : — 

1.  A  charter  dated  at  Westminster,  24  July,  33  Edward  III.  [^Charter 

Roll,  33  Edward  IIL  No.  6.] 

2.  Letters  patent  dated  15  May,  4  Richard  II.  inspecting  and  confirming 

the  following : — 

(1.;  Letters  patent  dated  3  December,  31  Edward  III.  being  an 
exemplification  of  a  charter  dated  at  York,  23  February, 
2  Ed  ward.  in.  {Charter  Roll,  2  Edward  III.  No.  80,] 
inspecting  and  confirming  the  following  : — 

a«  A  charter  dated  at  Winchester,  25   January,  6  John. 
{^Monasticon.l 

b,  A  charter  dated  at  Westminster,  10  January,  22  Henry  III. 
(2.)   A   charter  dated  at  Merton,  22  January,  20  Henry  III. 

\  Charter  Roll,  20  Henry  IIL  m.  7.] 

3.  A  charter  dated  at  Westminster,  30  October,  17  Richard  IL  [Charter 

Roll,  15-17  Richard  IL  No.  11.]       For  100*.  paid  in  the  hanaper. 

Membranes  22  and  21. 

May  8.  Inspeximus  and  confirmation  to  the  mayor,  bailiffs,  and  commonalty  of 

Westminster,  the  town  of  Coventre  of  charters  dated  at  Westminster,  7  July,  23  Henry 
VI.  [  Charter  Roll,  21-24  Henry  VL  No.  42,]  and  Westminster,  m  Novem- 
ber, 30  Henry  VI.  [Charter  Roll,  27-39  Henry  VL  No.  29.] 

For  5  marks  paid  in  the  hanaper. 

Membrane  21 — continued. 

May  16.  Inspeximus  and  confirmation  of  a  charter  (called  letters  patent)  dated  at 
Wcsiminstcr.  Westminster,  26  February,  3  Richard  II.  being  a  grant  to  Joan  late  the 
wife  of  Roger  Beggebury^  and  John,  Henry,  Tiiomas,  and  Ralph,  his  sonis 
and  heirs,  of  a  market  weekly  on  Wednesdays,  and  a  fair  yearly  at  the 
Assumption  at  their  manor  of  G  ou thcrst,  co.  Kent.  [  Charter  Roll,  3  Richard 
IL  No.  13.]  For  ^  mark  paid  in  the  hanaper. 

June  28.         Inspeximus  and  confirmation  to  Edmund  Rede,  esquire,  Peter  Marmycn 

'  WcstmiDster.  and  Thomas  Waldyene,  present'  tenants  of  the  under-mentioned  land,  of 

letters  patent  dated  12  February,  14  Edward  IIL  inspecting  and  confirming 

letters  patent  (in  French)  of  the  king's  son  Edward,  duke  of  Cornwall  and 

earl  of  Chestei*,  dated  at  Kenyngton  Manor,  12  February,  14  Edward  III. 


2  EDWARD  IV.— Part  HI.  237 


1462.  Membrane  21 — cont. 

being  a  release  to  Sir  John  de  Moljns  and  his  heirs  of  S3s,  lOd.  yearly 
rent  from  certain  lands  which  he  holds  of  him  as  of  tlte  manor  of  Bensyngton 
which  is  of  the  honour  of  Walyngford.        For  ^  mark  paid  in  the  hanaper. 

Membranes  21-17. 

July  1.  Inspcvimus  SLud  confirmation  to  the  mayor,  sheriff's  and  burgesses  of  the 

Westminster,  town  of  Kyngcston  on  Hull  of  the  following  :— 

1.  Letters  patent  dated  27  July,  15  Edward  II.   being  a  licence  for 

them  to  enclose  and  crenellate  the  town. 

2.  Letters    patent  dated    5   March,    1    Edward  III.  confirming    the 

above. 

3.  Letters  patent  dated  17  July,  9  Henry  YI.  inspecting  and  confirming 

letters  patent  dated  10  December,  2  tienry  Y.  inspecting  and  con- 
firming letters  patent  dated  24  November,  1  Heniy  lY.  inspecting 
and  confirming  a  charter  dated  at  Westminster,  4  June,  5  Richard 
II.  l_Charter  Roll,  5  Richard  IL  No.  16],  inspecting  and  con- 
firming with  additions  a  charter  dated  at  Nottingham,  15  July, 
8  Edward  III.  [Charter  Roll,  8  Edward  TIL  No.  26],  inspecting 
and  confirming  with  additions  a  charter '  dated  at  Havering  attc 
Bower,  6  May,  6  Edward  III.  [Charter  Roll,  5  Edusard  III.  No, 
62,]  inspecting  and  confirming  with  additions  a  charter  dated  at 
York,  25  January,  6  Edward  II.  [  Charter  Roll,  5  Edward  IL  No. 
24,]  inspecting  and  confirming  the  following  i-^ 

(1.)  A  charter  dated  at  Westminster,  1  April,  27  Edward  I. 

(2.)  Letters  patent  dated  6  August,  30  Edward  I. 

4.  Letters  patent  dated  8  July,  11  Henry  YI.  confirming  with  additions 

certain  grants  of  earlier  kings. 

5.  A   charter  dated  at  Westminster,  10  May,  18  Henry  YI.  [Charter 

Roll,  1-20  Henry  VI.  No.  29.] 

G.  Letters  patent  dated  2  July,  18  Henry  YI.  being  a  grant  of  certain 
privileges  to  the  mayor  and  aldermen. 

7.  A  charter  dated  at  Westminster,  10  March,  25  Henry  YI.  granting 
to  them  that  the  towns  of  Hesill  and  Northferyby,  the  towns  and 
hamlets  of  Swanlond,  West  Ellay,  Kyrkellay,  Tranby,  Willardby, 
Wolfreton  and  Anlaby,  the  site .  of  the  priory  of  Hautenpris,  a 
pasture  or  close  called  *  Weldernyngham,'  a  well  in  it  called 
*  Demyngham  Well,'  a  dyko  called  *  Damyngham  Dyk '  running 
from  the  well  to  the  water  of  Hull,  and  all  lands  between 
the  said  dyke  and  the  river  Humber  on  the  south  and  the 
liberty  or  precinct  of  Kyngcston  on  Hull  on  the  east  shall  be 
separated  from  the  county  of  York  f i*om  Easter  next  and  parcel 
cf  the  county  of  the  town  of  Kyngcston  on  Hull ;  that  they  may 
choose  two  coroners  instead  of  one ;  that  on  the  death  of  the 
king's  kinsman  John,  duke  of  Exeter,  and  Henry  his  son,  they  may 
choose  from  time  to  time  a  fit  person  to  be  the  king's  admiral  within 
the  said  county  of  the  town,  the  town  of  Drypole  and  the  river 
Humber,  and  shall  have  all  profits  arising  from  the  office  of  admiral 
for  the  maintenance  of  the  port ;  and  that  they  may  dig  wells  within 
the  said  county  of  the  town  and  take  the  water  to  the  town  by  leaden 
pipes  and  otherwise.  For  G  marks  paid  in  the  hanaper. 

Membrane  16. 

March  8.        Grant  to  the  free  men  of  the  mystery  or  art  of  '  taloughchaundelers '  of  the 

Westminster,  city  of  London  that  they  and  their  successors  shall  henceforward  be  one 

body  and  comn^onalty.     They  sbi^U  yearly  elect  a  master  and  four  wardens 


238  CALENDAR  OP  PATENT  ROLLS. 


1462.  Membrane  16— €(m<* 

for  their  governance,  who  shall  have  the  power  of  scnitinj  and  examination 
of  all  weights,  measures  and  equipments  used  hj  any  men  practising  the 
mystery  in  the  city  and  suburbs.  They  shall  have  the  power  of  acquiring 
lands  and  other  possessions  in  fee,  and  of  pleading  and  being  impleaded. 
And  they  may  acquire  lands,  tenements  and  rente  held  of  the  king  in  free 
burgage  within  the  city  of  London  to  the  value  of  10  marks  yearly. 

By  p.s.  and  for  20/.  paid  in  the  hanaper. 

March  6.        Inspeximus  and  confirmation  to  the  warden,  vicars,  clerks  and  choristers 

Westminster,  of  the  college  founded  by  Edward  III.  within  the  palace  of  Westminster  of 

letters  patent  dated  22  January,  19  Richard  II.  incorporating  them  into  one 

body.  For  13«.  4c?.  paid  in  the  hanaper. 

May  8.  Inspeximus  and  confirmation  to  Edmund,  the  abbot^  and  the  convent  of 

Westminster.  Persore  of  letters  patent  dated  4  November,  32  Edward  III.  being  a  licence 
for  them  to  repair  and  hold  their  moiety  of  a  weir  called  *  Hyvewere '  in 
the  river  Seveni,  as  had  beeb  granted  to  them  on  18  July,  54  Henry  III* 

For  lOf.  paid  in  the  lianaper. 

Mbmbranes  16  AND  15. 

May  20.        Inspeximus  and  confirmation  to  Alice,  the  prioress,  and  the  nuns  of 
Westminster.  Bromhale  of  letters  patent  dated  4  July,  14  Edward  II.  being  an  exempli- 
fication of  the  following,  which  have  been  burned  by  mishap  :— 

1.  A  charter  dated  at  Reading,  20  March,  12  Henry  III.  [^Charter  Rolf, 

12  Henry  III.  m.  7.] 

2.  A  charter  dated  at  Windsor,  4  April,  23  Henry  III.  [Charter  RoU^ 

23  Henry  III.  m.  3.] 
3*  A  charter  dated  at  Reading,  13  February,  30  Henry.  UI.  [Charter  Rollj 
30  Henry  III.  m.  10.] 

4.  A  charter  dated  at  Windsor,  14  November,  40  Henry  TIL 

5.  A  charter  dated  at  Westminster,  16  June,  46  Henry  III.  [Charter 

Holly  46  Henry  III.  m.  2.] 

6.  Letters  patent  dated  3  May,  11  Edward  I. 

For  ^  mark  paid  in  the  faanaper. 

Membranes  15-18. 

June  20.        Inspeximus  and  confirmation  to  Richard,  the  abbot,  and  the  convent  of 
Westminster.  Battle  of  the  following  : — 

1.  A  charter  dated  at  Westminster,  23  June,  4  Richard  II.  [Charter 
Roily  4  Richard  IL  No.  16],  inspecting  and  confirming  a  charter 
dated  at  Westminster,  11  Febi*uary,  22  Edward  UI.  [Charter  Roily 
22  Edward  III.  No.  32,]  inspecting  and  confirming  a  charter  dated 
at  Windsor,  4  October,  6  Edward  II.  [  Charter  Roily  6  Edward  II 
No.  56,]  inspecting  and  confirming  the  following  :— 

(1.)  The    charter    of    foundation    of  William    I.    [Monasticony 

No.  /X] 
(2.^  Another  charter  of  the  same.  [Ibid,  No.  X."] 
{ZS  (4.)  (5.)  (6.)  Other  charters  of  the  same. 
(7.;  A  cluurter  of  William  II. 
(8.)  Another  charter  of  the  same.  [Ibid.  No,  XIII.'] 
(9.)  A  charter  of  Henry  I. 


(10.)  Another  charter  of  the  Fame. 


Ibid.  No.  XIV.] 


(11.)  Another  charter  of  the  same.  [Ibid.  No.  XV.] 
(12.)  Another  charter  of  the  same.  [Ibid.  No.  XVI. \ 
(13.)  A  charter  dated  at  Westminster,  20  May,  54  Henry  III. 
[Charter    Roily  64  Henry  III.   m.  7],  inspecting  and  con- 
firming with  additions  a  charter  dated  at  Westminster,  10  July, 
87  Henry  III,  [ManasticoUf  No.  XXIL\ 


2  EDWARD  IV.— Part  III.  239 


1462.  Membranes  15-13— con<. 

2.  Letters  patent  dated  28  October,  65  Henrj  III.  being  a  grant  to  them 
that  they  shall  hold  the  pleas  of  their  tenants  by  one  of  the  justices 
in  eyre  with  their  steward.  •  For  10  marks  paid  in  the  hanaper. 

Membranes  12^10. 

May  8.  Inspeximus  and  confirmation  to  the  bailiffs  and  burgesses  of  the  town  of 

Westminiiter.  Shrewsbury  of  the  following  :— 

1.  A  charter  dated  22  November,  13  Richard  II.  [Charter  Roll,  11-13 

Richard  IL  No,  8],  inspecting  and  confirming  letters  patent  dated 
17  January,  1  Richard  II.  inspecting  and  confirming  the  following : — 
(1.)  A  charter  dated  at  Westminster,  10  March,  11  Edward  III. 
\^Charter  Roll,  11  Edward  III.  No.  69,]  inspecting  and 
confirming  with  additions  a  charter  dated  at  Salisbury, 
25  October,  2  Edward  III.  ICharter  Roll,  2  Edward  III. 
No,  25,]  inspecting  and  confirming  the  following  : — 

a,  A  charter  dated  at  Feckenham,  10  August,  40  Henry  III. 

6.  A  charter  dated  at  Loughborough,  6  February,   13 

Edward  II.  inspecting  and  confirming  the  following : — 

a,  A  charter  dat«d    at    Westminster,  20    March, 

11  Henry  III. 
p.  Another  charter  of  the  same  date. 
y,  A  charter    dated    at  Feckenham,    10    August, 

40  Henry  III. 
h.  Letters  patent  dated  22  September,  49  Henry  III. 
(2.)  A  charter  dated  at  Westminster,  4  May,  15  Edward  III. 
[Charier  Roll,  15  Edward  III,  No,  19.] 

2.  Letters  patent  dated  7  February,  19  Richard  II.  granting  to  them 

satisfaction  for  arrests  or  distraints  when  they  are  neither  debtors 
nor  pledges. 

3.  Letters  patent  dated  5  March,  51  Edward  III.  inspecting  and  con- 

firming a  charter  dated  at  Feckenham,  10  August,  40  Henry  III. 

4.  Letters  patent  dated  12  January,  24  Henry  YI.  being  a  grant  to  them 

of  divers  liberties.  For  lOOs.  paid  in  the  hanaper. 

Membranes  9-7. 

May  1.  Inspeximus  and    confirmation  to    Joan,  the  abbess,   and  the    sisters 

Weitminstcr.   minoresses  of  Dcnneye  of  the  following  :— 

1.  Letters  patent  dated  8  April,  10  Edward  III.  [Monasticon,  No.  Fl] 

2.  Letters  patent  dated  12  April,  10  Edward  III.  [Ibid,] 

3.  Letters  patent  dated  14  April,  13  Edward  III  [Ibid.' 

4.  Letters  patent  dated  27  September,  15  Edward  III.  [Ibid,] 

5.  Letters  patent  dated  24  February,  llj  Edward  III.  [Ibid,  No.  IL] 

6.  Letters  patent  dated  18  May,  20  Edward  III.  [Ibid.  No.  IF,] 

7.  Lett-ers  patent  dated  7  October,  16  Edward  III.  being  a  licence  for  the 

alienation   in  mortmain  by   Mary  de    Sancto  Paulo,  countess  of 
*     Pembroke,  of  her  manor  of  Strode. 

8.  Letters  patent  dated  21  August,  18  Edward  III.  [Ibid,  No.  Ill,] 

9.  A  charter  dated  at  Westminster,  20  July,  34  Edward  III.  [Charier 

Roll,  34  Edward  III,  No.  13.] 

10.  Letters  patent  dated  1  December,  38  Edward  III.  being  a  licence  for 

the  alienation  in  mortmain  to  them  by  the  said  countess  and  others 
of  the  manor  of  Eyehalle  and  certain  lands. 

11.  A  charter  dated    at   Westminster,   6  November,   42   Edward   III. 

[Charter  Roll,  42  Edward  III.  No.  2.] 

12.  Letters  patent  dated  20  M«y,  16  Edward  III.  being  a  grant  to  the  said 

Gonntess  of  the  manor,  of  Strode,  co.  Kent. 


I 

240  CALENDAR  OP  PATENT  BOLLS.  1 


1462.  Membranes  9-7 — cont. 

13.  Letters  patent  dated  16  Januai'y,  14  Edward  UI.  being  an  exempli- 

fication at  the  request  of  the  prior  of  the  Hospital  of  St.  John  of 
Jernsalem  in  England  of  letters  patent  dated  6  April,  6  Edward  III. 
exemplifying  a  charter  dated  at  York,  15  August,  1  Eklward  III. 
inspecting  and  confirming  a  charter  dated  at  Beading,  12  June, 
37  Henry  III. 

14.  Letters  patent  dated  10  May,  21  Bichard  II.  being  a  grant  to  them 

of  two  tuns  of  Gascon  wine  yearly  in  the  port  of  Lynne. 

For  10  marks  paid  in  the  hanapcr. 

Membranes  6  axd  5, 

July  1.  Inspeximus  and  confirmation   to  Joan    Briggcs,    the   abbess,   and   the 

Westminster,  convent  of  Bomeseye  of  a  charter  dated  at  Westminster,  10  May,  13  Bicliard  II. 
^Charier  RoU^  W-IZ  Richard  IL  No.  2,]  inspecting  and  confirming  to 
Isabel  Camoys,  then  abbess,  and  the  convent  the  following  : — 

1.  A  charter  dated  at  Langley,  14  June,  2  Edward  II.  [Charter  Roll, 

2  Edward  IL  No.  10,]  inspecting  and  confirming  the  following  : — 
(I.)  A  charter  dated  at  Kenil worth,  18  July,  ^  Henry  III. 
(2.)  A  charter  dated  at  Woodstock,   10  July,  52   Henry  III. 
[  Charter  Roll,  52  Henry  III,  m.  4,]  being  an  exemplification 
of  the  following : — 

a.  Three  charters  of  Stephen. 

b.  Seven  charters  of  Henry  I. 

e.  Fourteen  charters  of  Henry  II. 
(3.)  A  charter    dated  at  the  Tower  o(  London,  3   February, 
50  Henry  III.  [Charter  Roll^  56  Henry  III.  m.  5.] 

2.  Letters  patent  dated  11  February,  10  Edward  III.  being  a  grant  to 

them  of  the  custody  of  the  abbey  during  voidance. 

3.  A  charter  dated  at  Westminster,  5  March,  43  Edward  IH.  [Charter 

Roll,  43  Edu?ard  III.  No,  17.]  For  40s.  paid  in  the  hanaper. 

Membrane  4. 

July  1.  Inspeximus  and  confirmation  to  William,  the  abbot,  and  the  convent  of 

Westminster.   Certeseye  of -the  following : — 

1.  Letters  patent  dated  26  February,  16  Edward  IIL  being  a  grant  to 

them  of  the  custody  of  the  abbey  during  voidance. 

2.  Letters  patent  dated  10  November,  21  Edward  III.  granting  that  no 

pension  shall  be  granted  to  anyone  on  the  occasion  of  the  creation 
of  an  abbot. 

3.  Letters  patent  dated  26  January,  1  Bichard  IL  inspecting  and  con- 

firming to  John,  then  abbot,  and  the  convent,  a  charter  dated  nt 
Chertsey,  22  September,  15  Edward  III.  [Charier  Roll,  15  Edtcard 
III.  No.  9,]  inspecting  and  confirming  to  John,  then  abbot,  and 
the  convent,  a  charter  dated  at  Westminster,  26 'June,  13  Edward  I. 
insiiecting  and  confirming  a  charter  of  Henry  II.  and  a  charter  dated 
at  Vezelay,  3  July,  [1]  Bichard  L        For  100#.  paid  in  the  hanaper. 

Membranes  3  and  2. 

July  5.  Inspeximus  and  confirmation  to  the  mayor  and  burgesses  of  Devices  of 

WcstmiuBter.  letters  patent  dated  24  November,  2  Henry  VI.  inspecting  and  confirming 
a  charter  dated  at  Westminster,  12  May,  2  Henry  V.  [ChaHer  Roll, 
2  Heniy  V.  p.  1,  No.  12,]  inspecting  and  confirming  letters  patent  dated 
20  February,  5  Henry  IV.  inspecting  and  confirming  a  charter  dated 
at  Westminster,  6  February,  4  Bichard  II.  [Charter  Roll,  4  Richard  IL 


\ 

s 


2  EDWARD  IV.— Part  III.  24i 


1462.  Membranes  3  and  2 — cont. 

No*  4,]  inspecting  and  confirming  with  additions  a  charter  dated  at  West- 
minster, 27  March,  45  Edward  III.  [Charter  Roily  ^S  Edward  III.  No.  6,] 
inspecting  and  confirming  the  following : — 

1.  A  charter  of  Matilda  the  Empress. 

2.  A  charter  of  Henry  II. 

3.  A  charter  dated  at  Westburj,  30  October,  2  John. 

4.  A  charter  dated  at  Marlborough,  25  March,  13  Henrj  III.  inspecting 

and  confirming  the  preceding.  For  40«.  paid  in  the  hanaper. 

Membranes  2  and  1. 

Sept.  7.         Inspeximus  and   confirmation  to  the  burgesses  of    Launceston    alias 
Westminster.  Duneheved,  co.  Cornwall,  of  letters  patent  dated  12  May,  2  Henry  V. 
inspecting  and  confirming  .the  following  ;— 

1.  Letters  patent  dated   18   September,  1   Henry  IV.   inspecting  and 

confirming  letters  patent  dated  2  May,  6  Bichard  IE.  inspecting  and 
confirming  letters  patent  of  Bichard,  sometime  count  of  Poitou  and 
earl  of  Cornwall. 

2.  Letters  patent  dated  24  May,  0  Henry  IV.  inspecting  and  confirming 

a  charter  dated  at  Westminster,  16  October,  10  Bichard  II.  [Charter 
Boll,  9-10  Bichard  If.  No.  6.] 

3.  Letters  patent  (in  French)  of  Edward,  late  Prince  of  Wales,  duke  of 

Cornwall  and  earl  of  Chester,  dated  20  August,  29  Edward  III. 

For  1  mark  paid  in  the  hanaper. 


u     80914. 


242 


2  EDWAKD  IV.~Pabt  IV. 


14(52.  Mbmbranrs  29-20. 

June  30.         Inspeximus  aad  oonfirmatioa  to  Thomas^  Uie  prior,  and  the  oonyent  of 
Westminster.  Spaldinges  of  letters  patent  dated  15  October,  14  [H^niy  YI.],  inspeetiiig 
and    confirming  to  Bobert   Holand,  then    prior,  and    the  consent  the 
following:— 

1.  A  charter  dated  at  the  Tower  of  London,  16  Febroaij,  4  Edward  UL 

[Charter  Roll^  4  Edward  III.  No,  95,]  inspecting  and  confirming 
the  foUowing : — 

(1 .)  A  charter  of  Henrj  II. 

(2.)  A  charter  of  Stephen. 

(8.),  (4.)  Charters  of  Henry  II. 

(5.)  A  charter  dated  1  March,  10  Richard  I. 

(6.)  A  charter  dated  24  January,  10  Bichard  I. 

(7.)  A  charter  dated  at  Folham,  21  April,  1  John.  [Jfonoi/icon, 

VoL  TIL  p.  219.] 
(8.)  Letters  patent  dated  1  April,  16  John. 
(9.)  A  charter  dated  at  Windsor,  12  May,  11  Henry  HI. 
(10.)  A  charter  dated  at  Merton,  27  January,  20  Henry  III. 
(11.)  A  charter  dated  at  Portsmouth,  6  May,  26  Henry  HI. 
(12.)  A  charter  dated  at  Westminster,  14  November,  64  Henry 

UI.  confirming   a   charter  dated   at  Windsor,  12   May,  11 

Henry  HI. 
(13.)  A  charter  dated  at  Westminster,  15  November,  54  Henry  HI. 

inspecting    and  confirming    charters    of    Gilbert    de    Gaunt, 

Baldwin  Wake,  Adam  de  Hakebech,  Balph  de  Sancto  Lando, 

John  son  of  Godfrey  de  Surflet,  Geoffrey  de  Bucton,  Alexander 

son  of  Ralph  de  Sancto  Botulpho,  and  John  son  of  Baldwin 

de  Brencurt. 
(14.)  A   charter    of    Lucy,    sometime     countess    of    Chester. 

[Monasticon.'] 
(15.)  A  charter  of  Banulph,  sometime  earl  of  Chester  and  Lincoln. 

[ManaHicon,'] 
(16.)  A  charter  of  Henir  de  Lacy,  sometime  earl  of  Lincoln,  dated 

17  July,  3  Edward  II. 
(17.)  Divers  private  grants  by  William  de  Romara,  sometime  earl 

of  Lincoln,  Lucy  his  mother  and  others,  not  set  out  at  length. 

2.  Letters  patent  dated  16  February.  4  Edward  III.  confirming  divers 

private  grants  not  set  out  at  length. 

3.  Letters  patent  dated  27  November,  19  Bichard  II.  being  a  licence  for 

the  acquisition  in  mortmain  by  them  of  certain  lands  in  Spaldyng, 
Pynchebek,  Surflete  and  Wytham.* 

4.  Letters  patent  dated  16  July,  14  Richard  II.  being  an  exemplification 

of  a  perambulation  between  the  parts  of  Holland  and  Kesteveui 
CO.  Lincoln. 

5.  Letters  patent  dated  6  November,  19  Richard  U.  being  an  exemplification 

at  the  request  of  John,  then  prior,  of  a  certificate  in   Chancery 
touching  certain  liberties.  For  20  marks  paid  in  the  hanaper. 

Membrane  19. 

May  30  Inspeximus  and  confirmation  to  John  Adys,  John  Aleyn,  Oliver  Davy  and 

Leicester.     Thomas  Stereland,  the  wardens,  and   the  commonalty  of  the  mystery  of 

*  Thene  lett^ri  are  onjittod  from  the  enrolment  on  the  Patent  iU)}l  of  14  Hejiry  VI.  Part  2, 


2  EDWARD  IV.— Pabit  IV.  243 


1462.  Membrane  19 — cont.'  ] 

goldsmiths  of  London  of  letters  patent  dated  13  March,  1  Edward  IIL 
(French),  and  6  Febmarj,  16  Bichard  U.  granting  to  them  divers 
privileges ;  and  grant  to  them  in  addition  that  they  shall  form  a  body  cor- 
porate, with  power  of  acquiring  lands  and  other  pcssetssions  and  of  plying 
and  being  impleaded,  and  shall  make  ordinances  for  the  better  governance 
of  the  mystery,  and  shall  have  the  scrutiny  and  assay  of  gold  and  silver 
within  the  city  and  suburbs  of  London  and  at  other  places  within  the 
realm.  [Herbert's  History  of  the  Livery  Companies^  vol.  ii.  p.  287.] 

By  p.s.  and  for  10/.  paid  in  the  hanaper. 


Membranes  18-15. 

May  1.  Intpeximus  and  confirmation  to  the  mayor,  sheriffs  and  burgesses  of  the 

WetimiBtter.  town  of  Nottingham  of  letters  patent  dated  28  June,  27  Henry  VI. 
inspecting  and  confirming  with  additions  letters  patent  dated  24  May, 
2  Henry  V.  inspecting  and  confirming  a  charter  dated  at  Westminster, 
18  November,  1  Henry  IV.  ICharter  Boll,  1  Henry  IF.  p.  I.  No.  4,] 
inspecting  and  confirming  with  additions  letters  patent  dated  8  April, 
1  Richard  11.  inspecting  and  confirming  a  charter  dated  at  Woodstock, 
1  May,  4  Edward  III.  f  Charter  Boll,  4  Edward  IIL  No.  83,]  inspecting, 
and  confirming  with  additions  a  charter  dated  at  Westminster,  16  March, 
7  Edward  II.  [Charter  Boll,  7  Edward  IL  No.  8,]  inspecting  and  con- 
firming the  following  :— 

1.  A  charter  dated  at  Westminster,  24  February,  14  Henry  IIL  inspecting 

and  confirming  with  additions  a  charter  dated  at  Glipstone,  19  March, 

1  John. 

2.  A  charter  dated  at  Nottingham,  20  July,  39  Henry  HI. 

3.  A  charter  dated  at  Lincoln,  11  February,  12  Edward  I.  [Charter  Boll, 

12  Edward  L  No,  51.]  For  2  marks  paid  in  the  hanaper. 

1463.  Membranes  14-4. 

March  1.  Intpeximus  and  confirmation  to  John,  the  bishop,  and  the  dean  and 
Westminster,  chapter  of  Lmcoln  of  a  charter  dated  at  Westminster,  20  June,  1  Henry  V. 
\  Charter  Boll,  1  Henry  V.  p.  3,  No.  11,]  inspecting  and  confirming  to 
Philip,  then  bishop,  and  the  dean  and  chapter  a  charter  dated  ^t  West- 
minster, 9  March,  2  Henry  IV.  [Charter  Boll,  2  Henry  IV.  p.  1,  No.  1,] 
inspecting  and  confirming  to  Henry,  then  bishop,  and  the  dean  and  chapter 
the  following : — 

L  A  charter  dated  at  Westminster,  12  July,  2  Bichard  II,  [  Charter  Boll, 

2  Bichard  IL  No.  5,]  inspecting  and  confirming  to  John,  then 
bishop,  and  the  dean  and  chapter  the  following : — 

1.  A  charter  dated  at  Westminster,  15  February,  3  Edward  III. 

[Charter  Bollf  3  Edward  III.  No.  51,]  inspecting  and  col- 

firming  to  Henry,  then  bishop,  and  the  dean  and  chapter  the 

following  :— 

(1-2.)  Two  charters  of  William  I.  [Monasticon,  Vol.  VL 

No.ZA 
(3-5.)  Three  chai-ters  of  William  II.  [Ibid.  Nos.  4,  5,  6.] 
(6-23.)  Eighteen  charters  of  Henry  I.  [Ibid.  Nos.  7,  8, 9, 
62, 51, 10, 41,  18,  43,  31,  37,  30,  45,  32,  46,  20,  19,  42.] 
(24-25.)  Two  charters  of  queen  Matilda. 
(26-31.)  Six  charters  of  Stephen  {Ibid.  Nos.  48,  49.] 
(32-36.)  Five  charters  of  Henry  11.  [Ibid.  Nos.  62, 58,  60, 
57.] 

V2 


244  CALENDAR  OF  PATENT  BOLLS. 


1463.  Membranes  14-4 — eoni. 

2.  A  charter  dated  at  Westminster,  15  Februair,  3  Edward  III- 
[Charter  Roll^  3  Edward  III.  No.  3 J  inspecting  and 
confirming  the  following : — 

n.)  A  charter  of  William  11.  [Monasticon,  No,  11.] 
(2-10.)  Nine  charters  of  Henry  L  [Ibid,  Nos.  27,  50,  24, 

28,  40,  16.] 
(11-18.)  Eight  chai*ter3  of  Stephen. 
(19-35.)  Seventeen  charters  of  Henry  II.  [Ibid.  Nos.  63, 

61.] 
(36.)  A  charter  dated  25  January,  1  Richard  I. 
(37  )  A  charter  dated  23  June,  6  Richard  I. 
(38.)  Letters  patent  dated  14  July,  15  John. 
(39.)  Letters  patent,  dated  17  July,  15  John. 
(40.)  Letters  patent,  dated  22  November,  16  John. 
(41.),  (42.)  Two  charters,  dated  at  Fulham,  15  May,  13 

Henry  III. 
(43.)  A  charter  dated  at  Oxford,  15  July,  15  Henry  III. 
(44.)  A  charter  dated  at  Westminster,  19  October,   18 

Henry  IH. 
(45.)  A  charter    dated  at  Westminster,   27  March,    18 

Henry  III. 
(46.)  Letters  patent  dated  28  January,  55  Henr7  III. 

3.  A  charter  dated  at  Westminster,  15  February,  3  Edward  III. 
[Charter  Boll,  3  Edward  III.  No.  49,]  inspecting  and 
confirming  the  following  :— 

(1-19.)  Nineteen  charters  of  Henry  11.  [Monastieonf  Nos. 
57,  55,  54,  56.] 

[20.)  A  charter  of  Richard  I.  dated  20  April  at  Wmchester. 

^21.)  A  charter  dated  at  Wallingford,  20  April,  5  John. 

(22.)  A  charter  dated  at  the  New  Temple,  London,  21 
November,  16  John. 

(23.)  A  charter  dated  at  Oxford,  18  July,  17  John. 

(24.)  A  charter  dated  at  Fulham,  15  May,  13  Henry  IIL 

'25.)  A  charter  dated  at  Windsor,  15  May,  31  Henry  III. 

[26.)  Letters  patent  dated  24  April,  21  Edward  I.  inspect- 
ing and  confirming  a  charter  of  W.  the  abbot,  and  the 
convent  of  Fecamp,  dated  1292. 

(27.)  Letters  patent  dated  1  July,  8  Edward  II. 

(28.)  Letters  patent  dated  21  February,  9  Edward  II. 

(29.)  Letters  patent  dated  6  December,  12  Edward  II. 

(30.)  Letters  patent  of  John  de  Blyton,  the  mayor,  and 
the  commonalty  of  Lincoln,  dated  1315. 

II.  Letters  patent  dated  7  October,  14  Richard  II.  inspecting  and  con- 

firming an  agreement  (in  French)  between  the  dean  and  chapter  and 
Seman  de  Laxfeld,  the  mayor,  and  John  Siklyng  and  John  de  Boston, 
bailifis,  and  the  commonalty  of  the  city,  dated  12  June,  13  Richard 

III.  Letters  patent  dated  4  February,  9  Richard  II.   inspecting  and 
confirming  letters  patent,  dated  9  August,  4  Edward  IIL 

lY.  Letters  patent  dated  20  April,  18  Edward  III. 
y.     Letters  patent  dated  14  January,  18  Edward  IIL 
VI.  Letters  patent  dated  1  July,  20  Edward  III. 

For  20  marks  paid  in  the  hanaper. 

1462.  Membranes  3-1, 

May  5.  Inspeximus  and  confirmation  to  the  bailifTR  and  burgesses  of  the  luwn 

Westminster,   of  Gloucester  of  letters  patent  [dated  26  October,  2]  Henry  YI.  inspecting 


ii 


i 


2  EDWARD  IV,— Pabt  IV.  245 


1462,  Membranes  3-1 — cont, 

and  confirming  a  charter  dated  at  Westminster,  6  February,  2  Henry  V. 
[Cliarter  Boll,  2  Henry  V,  p.  2,  No.  2,]  inspecting  nnd  confirming  a 
charter  dated  at  Westminster,  4  December,  1  Henry  IV.  [Charter  Eoll^ 
1  Henry  IV.  p.  1,  No.  16,]  inspecting  and  confirming  a  charter  dated  at 
Bristol,  21  March,  21  Richard  II.  [Charter Moll,  21-23  Richard II.  No.  14,] 
inspecting  and  confirming  with  additions  letters  patent  dated  27  March, 
1  Richard  II.  inspecting  and  confirming  a  charter  dated  at  Gloucester, 
20  December,  2  Edward  III.  [Charter  Roll,  2  Edward  IIL  No.  10,] 
inspecting  and  confirming  with  additions  a  charter  dated  at  Westminster, 
16  September,  6  Edward  II.  [Charter  Roll,  6  Edward  II.  No.  53,] 
inspecting  and  confirming  the  following : — 

1.  A  charter  of  Henry  II.  dated  at  Westminster. 

2.  A  charter  of  the  same  dated  at  Gloucester. 

3.  A  charter  dated  at  Portsmouth,  6  May,  6  Richard  I. 

4.  A  charter  dated  at  Porcliestcr,  26  April,  1  John. 

b.  A  charter  dated  at  Westminster,  6  April,  11  Henry  III. 
6.  A  charter  dated  at  Feckenham,  10  August,  40  Henry  III. 

For  40f .  paid  in  the  hanaper. 


246 


2  EDWARD  IV.— Part  V. 


1462.  Mbmbranbs  25  and  24. 

July  10.         Ifupeximus  and  confirmation  to  the  mayor,  bailiffs,  and  burgesses  of  the 
Wostminster.  town  of  Northampton  of  the  following  :— 

1.  A  charter  dated  at  Westminster,  14  June,  8  Richard  II.  [Charier 

Rollf  7-8  Richard  IL  No,  2,]  inspecting  and  confirming  with 

additions  a  charter  dated  at  Canterbary,  27  May,  27  Edward  I. 

[Charier  Roll^  27  Edward  L  No.  16 J  inspecting  and  confirming 

the  following : — 

(1.)  A  charter  dated  at  Westminster,  16  March,  11  Henry  lEL 
(2.)  A  charter  dated  at  Westminster,  18  Januiury,  41  Henry  III. 

2.  Letters  patent  dated  12  March,  30  Henry  VI.  granting  that  the  mayor 

shall  be  the  escheator  in  the  town  and  suburbs. 

3.  A  charter  dated  at  Westminster,  14  March,  38  Henry  VL  [Charter 

Boll,  27-39  Henri/  VL  No.  6.]     For  6  marks  paid  in  the  hanaper. 

Mbmbranbs  23-8. 

March  25.        Inspeofimus  and  confirmation  to  the  mayor,  commonalty,  and  citizens  of 

Westminster.  London  of  a  charter  dated  at  Westminster,  25  May,  1  Henry  IV.  [Charter 

Moll,  1  Henri/  IV.p,  3,  No,  8,]  inspecting  and  confirming  the  following : — 

I,  2.  Two  charters  (m  Saxon)  of  William  I. 

3.  A  charter  of  Henry  I. 

4.  A  charter  of  Henry  11, 

5.  A  charter  dated  at  Winchester,  23  April,  5  Richard  I. 

6.  A    charter     dated     at    Andelys    (Insulam    Andeliac'),    14    July, 

8  Richard  I. 

7.  A  charter  dated  at  Sorham,  17  June,  1  John. 

8.  A  charter  dated  5  July,  I  John. 

9.  A  charter  dated  at  Sorham,  17  June,  1  John. 

10.  A  charter  dated  at  the  New  Temple,  London,  9  May,  16  John. 

II.  A  charter  dated  20  March,  3  John. 

12,  13,  14.  Three  charters  dated  at  Westminster,  18  February, 
11  Henry  III. 

15.  A  charter  dated  at  Westminster,  16  March,  11  Henry  III. 

16.  A  charter  dated  at  Woodstock,  18  August,  11  Henry  HI. 

17.  A  charter  dated  at  Windsor,  26  February,  31  Henry  III. 

18.  A  charter  dated  at  Windsor,  12  June,  37  Henry  HI. 

19.  A  charter  dated  at  Northampton,  11  January,  50  Henry  IH. 

20.  A  charter  dated  at  Westminster,  26  March,  52  Henry  III.  [Charter 
Roll,  52  Henri/  IlL  m.  7.] 

21.  Letters  patent  dated  12  October,  26  Edward  I.  inspecting  and 
confirming  a  charter  datod  at  Westminster,  1 1  February,  9  Henry 

&x  J.. 

22*  A  charter  dated  at  Westminster,  17  April,  27  Edward  I.  [Charter 
Roily  27  Edward  L  No,  18,]  inspecting  and  confirming  Nos.  12, 
14,  15,  16  and  18,  and  c^rtaiii  articles  in  No.  20  above. 

23.  Letters  patent  dated  8  June,  12  Edward  II. 

24.  Letters  patent  dated  12  December,  15  Edward  IL 

25.  A  charter  dated  at  Westminster,  6  March,  1  Edward  HI.  [Charter 
Roll,  1  Edward  III.  No.  76.] 

26.  Letters  patent  dated  26  March,  11  Edward  III. 


2  EDWARD  IV.— Part  V.  247 


1462.  Membranes  23-8— co»^ 

27.  A  charter  dated  at  Westmihster,  26  May,  16  Edward  III.  {^Charter 
Roll  J  15  Edtoard  IIL  No,  12,]  inspecting  and  confirming  with 
additions  a  charter  dated  at  York,  8  June,  12  Edward  IL  [^Charter 
Roily  12  Edward  IL  No.  3,]  inspecting  and  confirming  Mo.  22 
above,  and  also  certain  grants  bj  letters  patent  of  the  same  date 
(No.  23). 

28.  Letters  patent  dated  3  June,  15  Edward  III.  . 

29.  Letters  patent  dated  10  June,  28  Edward  III. 

30.  A  charter  dated  at  Westminster,  4  December,  1  Richard  II.  [^Chartef 
Rollj  1  Richard  IL  No,  22,]  inspecting  and  confirming  wit^ 
additions  the  following  :— 

(1.)  No.  27  above. 

(2.)  No,  25  above. 

(3.)  Letters  patent  (two))  dated  6  March,  1  Edward  III. 

(4.)  No.  26  above. 

(5.)  No.  29  above. 

?6.)  Letters  patent  dated  22  November,  50  Edward  IIL 

(7.)  Letters  patent  (in  French)  dated  20  March,  1  Edward  III. 

31.  A  charter  dated  at  Westminster,  2&  November,  7  Bichard  IL 
[Charter  Roily  7-8  Richard  IL  No.  12,]  inspecting  and  confirming 
No.  30  above. 

32.  Letters  patent  dated  19  September,  16  Bichard  II. 

33.  Letters  patent  dated  12  June,  20  Bichard  II. 


MSUBKANSS  7-4. 

Oct.  30.         Inspeximus  and  confirmation  to  George,  bishop  of  Exeter,  master  of  the 
Westminster,  hospital  of  St.  Leonard,  York,  and  the  brethren  of  the  hospital  of  the 
following  :— 

1.  A  charter  dated  at  Westminster,  1  December,  1  Bichard  II.  [Charter 

Roily  1  Richard  IL  No.  25,]  inspecting  and  confirming  to  Bichard 
de  Bavenser,  king's  clerk,  then  master,  and  the  brethren  the 
following : — 

(1.)  A  charter  dated  at  Woodstock,   17  Julj,  4  Edwai^d  III. 
[Charter  Roily  4  Edtoard  IIL  No»  38,]  inspecting  and  con- 
firming to  John  Gifiard,  king's  clerk,  then  master,  and   the 
brethren  the  following : — 
a.  A  charter  dated  at  Westminster,  16  June,  22  Edward  I. 
inspecting  and  confirming  to  Walter  de  Langeton,  king's 
clerk,  then  master,  and  the  brethren  charters  of  Henry 
son  of  William,  William  son  of  Henry  de  Beningburgh, 
Peter  de  Bms,  Bertram  de  Bolemero,  Bobert  de  Neville, 
Bobert  de  Neville,  knight,    and    Henry    de    NevOIe. 
[Charter  Roily  22  Edward  L  No.  17.] 
ft.  A  charter  dated  at  York,  16  May,  12  Edward  II.  [Charter 
RoUy  12  Edward  IL  No.  10,]  inspecting  and  confirming 
the  following  :— 
a.  A  charter  of  Henry  II.  dated  at  Winchester. 
p.  Letters  patent  dated  7  May,  39  Henry  IIL 
7.  A  charter  dated  at  Westminster,    16    June,    22 
Edward  I.  [Charter  Roily  No.  19.] 
(2.)  A  charter  dated    at  Walton,  24    June,    12  Edward  III. 
[Charter  RoUy  12  Edtoard  IIL  No.  12.] 

2.  Letters  patent  dated  1  Deoembery  1  Bichard  IL  inspecting  and  con* 

firming  the  following  >— 

(1.)  Letters  patent  dated  18  September,  3  Edward  IL 


248  CALENDAR  OP  PATENT  ROLLS. 


1462.  Membranes  7-4— con*. 

(2.)  A  charter  dated  at  Westminster^  5  Febrnary,  35  Edward  III. 
to  Thomas  de  Brembre,  then  master,  and  the  brethren. 
[Charter  Roll,  34-35  Edward  HI.  No.  9.] 

For  20s.  paid  in  the  hanaper. 

Membrane  4 — cont. 

Kov.  9.  Mandate  to  all  to  permit  Laurence  Trane,  chaplain,  a  native  of  Erewyn  in 

Westmiostcr.   Scotland,  dwelling  in  the  citj  of  London,  who  has  taken  an  oath  of  fealtj, 

to  inhabit  the  realm  peaceably  and  enjoy  his  goods.  By  p.8. 

Like  mandates  in  £Avour  of  the  following : — 
Nov.  9.  William  Greg, '  yoman,'  a  native  of  Aburdene  in  Scotland,  dwelling  in 

Wcetminster.  the  parish  of  St.  Mary  WhitechapellVithout  Algate,  London.  By  p.s. 

Dec.  4.  Andrew  Bane,  chaplain,  a  native  of  Dandy  in  Scotland,  dwelling  at 

Westminster.  Colchestre,  co.  "Essex,  in  England.  By  p.s. 

Oct.  30.  WDliam  Bowesy,  chaplain,  a  native  of  Ooldstremo  in  Scotland,  dwelling 

Westminstor.  at  Holyngton,  co.  Sussex,  in  England.  By  p.8. 

1463^  Membrane  3. 

Feb.  20.  Inspeximus  and   confirmation   to  the  mayor  and  commonalty  of  the 

Westminster,  borough  of  New  Wodestoke,  co.  Oxford,  of  a  charter  dated  at  Westminster, 
24  May,  31  Henry  VI.  incorporating  the  town  as  a  borough  and  granting 
divers  Uberties.     [Charter  Roll,  27-39  Henry  VL  No.  22.] 

For  1  mark  paid  in  the  hanaper. 

1462.  Membranes  2  and  1. 

June  20.         Inspeximus  and  confirmation  to  the  mayor,  bailiffs  and  burgesses  of  the 
Westminster,   town  of  Bedeford  of  the  following : — 

L  Letters  patent  dated  7  I^vember,  2  Henry  VI.  inspecting  and 
confirming  letters  patent  dated  22  February,  2  Henry  IV.  inspecting 
and  confirming  a  charter  dated  at  Westminster,  3  January,  19 
Richard  IL  [Charter  AW/,  18-19  Richard  11.  No.  2,]  inspecting 
and  confirming  with,  additions  charters  dated  at  Westminster,  20 
March,  11  Henry  III.  and  Westminster,  12  November,  1  Bichard  I. 
2.  Letters  patent  dated  23  February,  25  Henry  VI.  being  a  release  to 
thorn  for  60  years  of  22/.  of  the  fee  farm  of  the  town. 

For  4  marks  paid  in  the  hanaper. 

Membrane  1— con^ 

March  10.        Inspeximus  and  confirmation  to  the  burgesses  of  the  town  of  New 

Westminster.   Wyndesore  of  a  charter  dated  at  Kenyngton  Manor,  19  May,  17  Henry  VI. 

granting  to  them  divers  liberties.  [Charter  Roll,  1-20  Henry  VI.  No.  39.] 

For  4  marks  paid  in  the  hanaper. 


249 


2  EDWARD  IV.— Part  VI. 


1453^  MSMRBANB  26. 

Jan,  12.  InspeximHs  and  confirmation  to  the  mayor  and  burgesses  of  the  town  of 

Westminster.  Oxford  of  letters  patent  dated  15  November,  2  Henry  VI.,  inspecting  and 
confirming  a  charter  dated  at  Westminster,  20  January,  2  Henry  IV. 
[^Charter  Roily  2  Uenry  IV, p.  1.  JVo.  14,]  inspecting  and  confirming  letters 
patent  dated  16  Fobroaiy,  1  Richard  II.,  inspecting  and  confirming  a 
charter  dated  at  Nottingham,  10  May,  1  Edward  III.  [Charter  Holly 
1  Edward  IIL  No.  54J  inspecting  and  confirming  with  additions  the 
following : — 

1.  A  charter  of  Henry  11.  dated  at  Canterbury. 

2.  A  charter  dated  at  Westminster,  14  June,  1  John. 

3.  A  charter  dated  at  Galdestrcm,  20  July,  29  Edward  L  [Charter  Moll, 

29  Edward  L  No.  9,]  inspecting  and  confirming  charters  dated  at 
Westminster,  16  Februaiy,  13  Henry  HI.  and  Westminster,  2G 
March,  41  Henry  HI.  For  100».  paid  in  the  hanaper. 


24g2.  Membranes  25-22. 

July  ].  Impeximus    and  confirmation  to  William,  the  bishop,  and    the    prior 

Westminster,  and  convent  of  Ely  of  letters  patent  dated  1  February,  1  Richard  II. 
inspecting  and  confirming  to  Thomas,  then  bishop,  and  John,  then  prior, 
and  the  convent,  the  following  : — 

1.  A  charter  dated  at  York,  3  March,  2  Edward  III.  [Charter  Roily 

2  Edward  III.  No.  78,]  inspecting  and  confirming  with  additions 
to  John,  then  bishop,  and  the  prior  and  convent  the  following : — 

(1^  A  charter  dated  at  York,  1  December,  12  Edward  IL 
[Charter  Roily  12  Edward  IL  No.  42,]  inspecting  and 
confirming  a  charter  of  Edgar  (in  Latin  and  Saxon). 

(2.)  A  charter  dated  at  Tork,  1  December,  12  Edward  IL 
[Charter  Roily  12  Edward  IL  No,  40,]  inspecting  and  con- 
firming the  following  :— 

a.  A  charter  of  Edward  the  Confessor  [Monasticouy  No. 
VIL] 

b.  A  charter  of  William  L  [MonasticoUy  No.  -Xl] 

(3.)  A  charter  dated  at  York,  1  December,  12  Edward  IL 
[Charter  Roily  12  Edward  LL  No.  41,]  inspecting  and  con- 
firmicg  the  following : — 

a,  A  charter  dated  at  Wallingford,  3  Jiily»  17  Henry  IIL 
6.  A  charter  dated  at  Wallingford,  3  July,  17  Henry  IIL 
inspecting  and  confirming  a  charter  dated  at  Roche  Andelys 
{Rupem  Andeliaciy)  1  July,  9  Richard  L 

2.  A  charter  dated   at  Westminster,  18  September,  17  Edward  IIL 

[Charter  Roily  17  Edward  IIL  No.  14.] 

8.  A  charter   dated  at  Westminster,  10  FebmarjTy  22  Edward  IIL 
[Charier  Roll,  22  Edward  IIL  No  11.] 

For  20  marks  paid  in  the  hanaper. 


260  CALENDAR  OP  PATENT  BOLLS. 


X462.  MSMBRANBS  21-17. 

April  12.        Inspeximus  and  confinnation  to  the  abbot  and  convent  of  St.  Edmunds 
Westminster,   of  the  following  : — 

1.  A  charter  dated  at  Westminster,  24  November,  7  Richard  IL  [Charter 

JRoll^J^jlRickard  II.  No.  11,]  inspecting  and  confirming  the 
following : — 

(1.)  Letters  patent  dated  19  June,  33  Edward  L 
(2.)  A  charier  dated  at  Woodstock,  22  July,  4  Edward  III. 
[Charter  Roll,  4  Edward  HI.  No.  68,]  inspecting  and  con- 
firming with  additions  the  following  :— 

a,  A  charter  dated  at  Westminster,  4  Maj,  8  Edward  IT. 
[Charter  Roll,  8  Edward  IL  No.  11,]  inspecting  and 
confirming  the  following : — 

a.  A  charter  (in  Latin  and  Saxon)  of  Cnnt  [Motiasticotif 
Vol.  III.  p.  135.] 

j3.  Five  charters  of  Edward  the  Confessor* 

y,  A  charter  ilated  21  November,  1  Richard  I. 

d.  A  charter  dated  at  Westminster,  16  November, 
9  Edward  I.  [  Charter  Roll,  9  Edward  I.  No.  3,] 
inspecting  and  conlirming  a  charter  of  Henry  I.  dated 
at  Westminster,  and  a  charter  dated  at  Silverton, 
15  March,  1  John. 

b.  A  charter  dated  at  Clarendon,  10  February,  10  Edward  II. 
[Charter  Roll,  10  Edward  II.  No.  J 9.] 

(3.)  A  charter  dated  at  Nottingham,  13  September^  4  Edward  III. 

[Charter  Roll,  4  Edward  III.  No.  43.] 
(4.)  A  charter  dated  at  Westminster,  4  May,  10  Edward  III. 

[Charter  Roll,  10  Edward  III.  No.  39.] 
(6.)  A  charter  dated  at  Westminster,  24  May,  26  Ed^rard  III. 

[Charter  RoU,  25^27  Edward  III.  No.  24.] 
(6.)  A  charter  dated  at  Westminster,  4  June,  27  Edward  III. 

[Ibid.  No.  3.] 

2.  Letters  patent  of  Henry  L  as  follows  :— 

H,  Rex  Anglorum  justiciariis  et  vicecomitibus  et  baronibus  et  omni* 
bus  ministris  etfidelibtis  ems  de  Norfolcia  et  Sudfolcia  salutem. 
Precipio  quod  ecclesia  Sancti  Edmundi  et  abbas  Anselmus 
habeant  et  teneant  niercdtum  et  teloneum  suum  de  mercato 
et  villa  Sancti  Edmundi  cum  omnibus  libertatibus  et  quiet- 
antiis  suis  ita  bene  et  quiete  et  libere  sicut  ecclesia  Sancti 
Edmundi  iUa  melius  et  plenius  et  quietius  tenuit  tempore 
pairis  etfratris  mei  et  meo  hucusque  et  sicut  abbas  Bal^  melius 
tenuit  vel  aliquis  antecessor  eius^  Et  nemo  amodo  quietatianem 
telonei  sui  super  hoc  requirat  qui  a  tempore  illo  illam  nan 
habuit  nee  habere  debuit.    T.  Al[berico']  de  Ver,  apud  Ealesiam. 

3.  A  charter  dated  at  Oxford,  20  July,  17  John  [Rotuli  Cartarum, 

p,  214.] 

4.  Letters  patent  dated  6  August,  20  Richard  IL,  being  a  grant  to  them 

of  the  custody  of  the  abbey  and  its  temporalities  during  voidance, 
saving  to  the  crown  knight's  fees  and  advowsons,  and  rendering 
40/.  yearly  at  the  Exchequer,  in  amplification  of  a  like  grant  to 
Uiera  on  20  May,  32  Edward  I.  For  16/.  paid  in  the  hanaper. 

Mbmbranb  l7r-cont. 

July  24.  Inn)eximus  and  confirmation  to  the  abbot  and  convent  of  Nyweham  of 

Wettmlniter.  letters  patent  dated  18  October,  17  Richard  IL,  inspecting  and  confirming  a 
charter  dated  at  Bordeaux,  81  Henry  [III.],  witnessed  by  Peter  (sic), 
bishop  of  Winchester,  and  others,  being  a  grant  to  th^  of  the  manor  of 
Axemynstre  and  '•tfaer  lands.  [Oliver's  JUtmasticon  viocesis  Exoniensis, 
p.  366.]  Fo'  ^'*  P^^  ^^  ^  hanaper. 


2  EDWARD  IV.— Pabt  VL  251 


1462.  Mbmbranb  16. 

Oct.  25.         Inspeanmus  and  confirmation  to  the  prior  and  canons  of  DunBtaple  of 
Wettminster.  letters  patent  dated  12  December,  1  Richard  II.,  inspecting  and  confirming 
a  charter  dated  at  Woodstock,  15  Maj,  4  Edward  III.  I  Charter  Bollf 
4  Edward  III,  Xo»  79,]  inspecting  and  confirming  the  following : — 

1.  A  charter  dated  at  Westminster,   16  November,   14   Edward   II. 

[Charter  Roily  14  Edward  IL  No.  20,]  inspecting  and  confirming 
the  following : — 

(1.)  A  charter  dated  at  Westminster,  13  Febmarj,  11  Henry  III., 
inspecting  and  confirming  a  charter  of  Henry  I.  [^Monasticon,'] 
(2.)  A  charter  dated  at  Westminster,  13  February,  il  Henry  III., 
inspecting  and  confirming  a  charter  dated  at  Yezolay,  3  July, 
1  Kichard  I. 

2.  A  charter  dated  at  York,  3  May,  16  Edward  11.  [Charter  Roily  16 

Edward  II.  No.  5.] 

3.  A  charter  of  Henry  II.  dated  at  Marlborough. 

For  10  marks  paid  in  the  hanaper. 


Mbmbranbs  15-13. 

June  12.        InspexUnuM  and  confirmation  to  John  Arundell,  bishop  of  Chichester,  of 
Westminster,    the  following  :— 

1.  A  charter    dated    9  May,  5  John.    [Rotuli   Cariarum,    p,    129  ; 

Monasiicouj  Vol.  VLp.  1169.) 

2.  A  charter  dated  at  [Esthampstede  Manor,  22  May,  9]  Bichard  II. 

[Charter  Roll,  9-10  Richard  IL  No.  1 1,]  inspecting  and  confirming 
to  Thomas,  then  bishop,  a  charter  dated  at  Westminster,  22 
Februttry,  12  Edward  III.  [Charter  Roll,  12  Edward  IL  No.  40,] 
inspecting  and  confirming  with  additions  to  Robert  de  Stretford, 
then  bishop,  the  following : — 

(1.)  A  charter  of  Henry  I.  [Monasticon,  No.  29.] 

{2.},  (3.)  Two  other  charters  of  the  same. 

(4.),  (5)  Two  cliarters  of  Hennr  II. 

(6.)  A  chailer  of  John,  count  of  Anjou.  [Ibid.  No.  49.] 

(7.)  Letters  patent  of  the  same. 

(8.)  A  charter  of  Stephen  [Ibid.  No.  32.] 

(9.)  A  charter  dated  31  October,  7  John  [Ibid.  No.  39.] 

(10.)  A  charter  dated  at  Westminster,  16  November,  13  Henry  III. 
[Ibid.  No.  43.] ; 

(11.)  Another  charter  of  the  same  date. 

(12.)  A  charter  dated  at  Norwich,  28  June,  16  Henry  III. 

(13.)  A  charter  dated  at  Westminster,  4  May,  17  Henry  III. 

(14.)  Another  charter  of  the  same  date.  [Ibid.  No.  42.] 

(15.)  Another  charter  of  the  same  date,  inspecting  and  confirming 
a  chatter  of  Kanulph,  bishop  of  Chichester.  [Ibid,  No.  48.] 

(16.)  A  charter  dated  at  Lincoln,  2  October,  20  Henry  111. 

(17.)  A  charter  dated  at  Wallingford,  23  December,  28 
Henry  111. 

(18.)  Letters  patent  of  John,  bishop  of  Chichester,  dated  Sunday 
atler  St.  ii'ancras,  1262. 

3.  A  charter  dated  at  Lincoln,  7  February,  9  Edward  HI.  being  a  grant 

to  John,  then  bishop,  of  a  market  on  Wednesdays  at  Watersfeld  in 
his  manor  of  Aumberle,  co.  Sussex,  and  a  fair  there  yearly  for  three 
days  at  the  feast  of  St.  Giles,  and  a  market  on  Thursdays  at  Heth- 
feld  in  his  manor  of  Bisshopeston,  co.  Sussex,  and  a  hir  there  yearly 
for  three  days  at  the  Deposition  of  St.  Richard  the  Confessor. 

For  20  marks  paid  in  the  hanaper. 


252  CALENDAR  OF  PATENT   BOLLS. 


1462.  Mkmbranes  12-7. 

Julj  1.  Inspeximus  and  confirmation  to  William  Wajnflete,  bishop  of  Winchester 

Westminster,   of  the  following  :— 

1.  A  charter  dated  at  Westminster,  20  August|  4  Richard  II.  ^Charier 

Roll  J  4  Richard  II,  No.  10^]  inspecting  and  confirming  to  William 
of  Wykeham^  then  bishop,  and  the  prior  and  convent,  a  charter 
dated  at  Westminster,  10  May,  15  Edward  III.  being  an  exempli- 
fication of  a  charter  dated  at  York,  8  June,  9  Edward  III.  [  Charier 
Roily  9   Edward   III.  No,  40,]   inspecting  and  confiiming  with 
additions  to  Adam,  then  bishop,  and  Alexander,  then  prior,  and  the 
convent,  a  chailer  dated  at  Northampton,  4  July,  10  Edward  II. 
[Charter  Roily  \Q  Edward  11  No.  *I y"]  inspecting  and  confirming 
to  John,  then  bishop,  and  the  prior  and  convent,  the  following : — 
(1.),  (2.)  Two  charters  (Saxon)  of  Edward  the  Confessor. 
i^S  A  charter  (Saxon)  of  William  I. 
(4. )  Another  charter  (Latin)  of  the  same. 
(5.)  A  charter  of  Henry  II. 

(6.)  A  charter  dated  at  Winchester,  10  September,  13  Edward  I. 
[Charter  Roily  13  Edward  I.  No.  13,]  inspecting  and  con- 
firming the  following : — 
a.  A  chaiter  dated  at  CUurendon,  23  March,  9  John. 
6.  A  chai'ter  dated  at  Westminster,  23  March,  11  Henry  III. 

inspecting  and  confirming  the  preceding, 
c.  A  charter  dated  at  Lamherham,  20  January,  16  Henry  IIL 

2.  A  charter  dated  at  Westminster,  20  August,  4  Richwi  II.  [Charter 

Rollj  4  Richard  II.  No.  9,J  inspecting  and  confirming  the  follow- 
ing:— 
(1.)  A  charter  dated  at  Oaemarvon,  6  June,   12  Edward  I. 

[Charter  Roily  12  Edward  I.  No.  30.] 
(2.)  A  charter  dated  at  Northampton,  4  July,  10  Edward  II. 
[Charter  Roll,  10  Edward  II.  No.  2,]  inspecting  and  con- 
firming a  charter  dated  at  Westminster,  14  July,  18  Edward  I. 
[Charter  Roll,  18  Edward  L  No,  23.] 

3.  A  charter  dated  at  Westminster,  20  August,  4  Richard  II.  [Charter 

Roll,  4  Richard  II.  No,  9,]  inspecting  and  confirming  the  follow 
ing: — 

(1.)  A  charter  dated  at  Nottingham,  20  July,  11  Edward  IL 

[jCharter  Roll,  1 1  Edward  II.  No,  86.] 
(2.)  A  charter  dated  at  Westminster,  10  November,  23  Edward  IIL 
to  William  de  Edyngton,  then  bishop  [Charter  Roll^  23  Ed* 
ward  IIL  No,  2.]  For  20  marks  paid  in  the  hanaper, 

« 

MSMBRANSS  6-1. 

July  1 .  Inspeximus  and  confirmation  to  Robert,  the  prior,  and  the  convent  of 

\Ve8tmin8ter.  St.  Swithun,  Winchester,  of  the  same  charters. 

For  10/.  paid  in  the  hanaper. 


253 


3  EDWARD  IV.— Pabt  L 


1463. 

May  1. 

Westminster. 


April  30. 
Westminster. 


April  29. 
Westminster. 


April  27. 
Westminster. 


Westminster. 


April  29. 
Westminster. 


Miij  3. 
Westminster. 


May  7. 
Westminster. 


April  29. 
W«>«tmin9ter. 


Membrane  24. 

Pardons  of  outlawry  to  the  following : — 

Henry  Scotte  of  Barton,  co.  Northampton,  ^  husbondman/  for  not 
appearing  before  John  Prysot  and  his  fellows,  justices  of  the  Bench 
of  the  late  king,  to  answer  John  Ghynnok,  prior  of  Bradenestoke, 
touching  a  debt  of  20/.,  he  having  surrendered  to  the  Flete  prison, 
as  Robert  Danby,  chief  justice,  has  certified.  Wilts. 

Robert  Dantre  late  of  Scardeburgh,  co.  York, '  gentilman,'  for  not 
appearing  before  the  justices  of  the  Bench  to  answer  Alan  Horsley, 
touching  a  trespass. 

Thomas  Curson  late  of  Tylney,  co.  'Norfolk,  'gentilman,'  for  not 
appearing  to  answer  Thomas  Legat,  citizen  and  fishmonger  of 
London,  alias  Leget,  citizen  and  goldsmith  of  London,  touching  a 
debt  of  40«. 

Hugh  Louther  or  Lowther  of  Highhed,  co.  Cumberland^  esquire,  late 
sheriff  of  Cumberland,  for  not  appearing  to  answer  touching  a  plea 
that  he  did  not  render  13/.  16</.  to  ^land  Yauz,  esquire,  John 
Bost  and  Margaret  lato  the  wife  of  Thomas  Delamore,  esquire, 
the  administrators  cf  the  goods  of  the  said  Thomas,  who  died 
intestate.  London. 

Thomas  Chellerscombe  alias  Chellescombe  alias  Chelnyscombe  late  of 
Sundryssho,  co.  Kent,  gentleman,  for  not  appearing  before  John 
Prysot  and  his  fellows,  justices  of  the  Bench  of  the  late  king,  to 
answer  William  Rotheley,  citizen  and  goldsmith  of  London,  tondiing 
a  debt  of  6  marks  6f .  8//.,  and  for  not  appearing  before  Robert 
Danby  and  his  fellows,  justices  of  the  Bench,  to  answer  William 
Bothelay  and  Richard  Hoo,  gentleman,  touching  debts  of  20  marks. 

London,  Middlesex,  and  Kent. 

Oliver  Urry  of  the  town  of  Oxford,  *•  skynner,'  for  not  appearing  before 
John  Prysot  and  his  fellows,  justices  of  the  Bench  of  the  late  king, 
to  answer  John  Warendorp,  merchant  of  Almain,  touching  a  debt  of 
13/.  10«.  London. 

James  Wymbyssh  late  of  Kentford,  co.  Suffolk,  '  husbondman,'  for  not 
appearing  to  answer  a  plea  that  he  render  100  sheep,  worth 
10/.  to  Henry  Haustyn,  Peter  Larke  and  Edmund  Hippurth  of 
Thetfford,  executors  of  the  will  of  John  Baxster  alicu  Glelyngham, 
late  of  Thetfbrd.  Northampton. 

Robert  Prestwyk  of  Welowe,  co.  Somerset, '  husbondman,*  for  not 
appearing  to  answer  the  abbot  and  conyent  of  St.  Mary's,  Cirencester, 
touching  a  debt  of  40/.  Gloucester. 

John  Broune  late  of  Esthakebourne,  co.  Berks, '  husbondman,'  for  not 
appearing  before  the  justices  of  the  Bench  of  the  present  king  to 
answer  the  abbot  of  St  Mary's,  Cirencester,  touching  a  debt  of  40/. 

Gloucester. 

Jolin  Appulby  late  of  Bury  St.  Edmunds,  co.  Suffolk,  <  voman,^  for 
not  appearing  to  answer  John  Damery,  touching  a  debt  of  40f. 

Essex. 

Thomas  Aneray  of  Welewe,  co.  Somerset^  *  husbondman,'  for  not 
appearing  before  John  Prysot  and  his  fellows,  justices  of  the  Bench 
of  the  late  king,  to  answer  the  abbot  and  convent  of  St.  Mary's, 
Cirencester,  touching  a  debt  of  40/.  Gloucester. 


254 


CALENDAR  OF  PATENT  BOLLS. 


1463. 

April  28. 
WcBtmiDster. 


May  12. 

Westminster. 


May  10. 
Westminster. 


May  2. 

Westminster. 


May  13. 

Westminster. 


May  6. 

Westminster. 


May  3. 

Westminster. 


Membrane  24 — cwU, 

Ralph  Hillyng  late  of  Briggewnter,  co.  Somerset,  clerk,  tor  not 
appearing  when  sued  with  William  Selak,  late  of  Teverton, 
CO.  Devon,  clerk,  to  answer  tho  prior  of  St.  Mary's  0?erey  in  Suthwerk 
touching  a  trespass.  SuiTey. 

Henry  Says  of  Wescote  Barton,  co.  Oxford,  clerk,  for  not  appearing 
before  the  king  to  answer  John  Wardale,  touching  a  trespass. 

London. 

John  Dalby  of  Little  Dalby,  co.  Leicester,  <  hnsbondman,'  for  not 
appearing  before  the  justices  of  the  Bench  to  answer  John  Bate, 
dean  of  the  collegiate  church  of  Tamworth,  touching  a  debt  of  10/. 

Stafford. 

Hugh  West  late  of  Everton,  co.  Huntingdon,  '^  maltman,*  for  not 
appearing  to  answer  Richard  Kesteyne  of  London,  ^gentilman,' 
touching  a  debt  of  20  marks.  London. 

John  Draghton  late  of  Maxsey,  co.  Northampton, '  husbondman,'  for  not 
appearing  to  answer  William  Andrewe,  touching  a  trespass. 

CO.  Northampton. 

Joan  West  late  the  wife  of  Thomas  West  late  of  St.  Albans,  co.  Hertford, 
*'  wydowe/  executrix  of  his  will,  for  not  appearing  before  John  Prysot 
and  bis  fellows,  justices  of  the  Bench  in  the  late  reign,  to  answer 
a  plea  that  she  render  40«.  to  Hugh  Wyche,  citizen  and  mercer 
of  London.  Middlesex. 

David  Brekenok  late  of  London, '  yoman,'  for  not  appearing  before  the 
justices  of  the  Bench  to  answer  John  Gy\le  touching  a  trespass  com- 
mitted by  himself  and  Nicholas  de  Fount,  Simon  Cateyn  and  Lionel 
Centuryon,  merchants,  late  of  London.  Middlesex. 


May  5. 

Westminster. 


May  10. 

Westminster. 


May  4. 

Westminster. 


May  2. 

Westminster. 


May  13. 

Westminster. 


May  12. 
Westminster. 


Membrane  23. 

David  Ferour  late  of  Shrewsbury,  co.  Salop,  'gentilman,'  for  not 
appearing  to  answer  William  Chattok  of  London,  fishmonger, 
touching  a  debt  of  200  marks.  London. 

William  Herman,  citizen  of  Norwich,  *•  lyster,*  for  not  appearing  to 
answer  John  Speryng,  citizen  of  Norwich,  touching  a  debt  of  10/. 

London. 

John  Ball  of  Stoke  by  Neyland,  co.  Suffolk, '  yoman,'  for  not  apnearing 
before  the  king  to  ansvrer  William  Tenderyng,  esquire,  touching  a 
trespass.  Suffolk. 

John   Meryell  of  Burghberi;on.    co.   Devon,  *•  husbondman,'  for    not 

appearing  before  John  Prvsot  and  his  fellows,  justices  of  the  Bench 

of  the  late  king,  to  answer  Humphrey  Poyntz  touching  a  trespass 

committed  by  himself  and  Denis  Moppe  of  Westworcombe,  co.  Devon, 

kelyer,'  and  John  Grewys  of  Mortho,  co.  Devon,  ^  husbondmsu.' 

Devon. 

Thomas  Coksetur  of  Caversam,  co.  Oxford,  ^  husbondman,'  for  not 
appearing  before  the  justices  of  the  Bench  to  answer  Robert 
Strangboue,  *•  gentilman,'  touching  a  debt  of  20/.  Middlesex. 

Thomas  Coksetur  alifu  Cokcester  of  Caversham,  co.  Oxford,  the  elder, 
<  husbondman,'  for  not  appearing  before  the  late  king  when  sued  with 
John  Butler,  Thomas  Coksetur  the  younger,  Thomas  Stevenys  and 
John  Wynot,  all  of  Caversam,  husbandmen,  to  answer  Robert 
Strangbou  touching  a  trespass  and  when  sued  with  John  Huchyn  of 
Saltcomb  by  Yelton,  co.  Devon, '  maryner,'  to  answer  John  Budde 
touching  a  trespass,  Oxford  and  Cornwall. 


3  EDWARD  IV.— Pabt  I. 


255 


1463. 

May  23. 

Wettmiiutery 


May  18. 

WeBtminster, 


Maj24. 

Westminster. 


May  11. 

Westminster. 


April  28. 
Westminster. 


May  23. 
Westminster. 


June  16. 
Westminster. 

June  24. 
Westminster. 


juijr  a. 

Westmmster. 


Jul^  1. 
Westminster. 


Juljr  4. 
Westminster. 


July  1. 
Westminster. 


Oct,  10. 

Wcstmini*ter. 


Membrane  23 — eoni. 

John  Batyn  of  Oxford,  ^  baker/  for  not  appearing  before  John  Prysot 
and  his  fellows,  justices  of  the  Bench  of  the  late  king,  to  answer 
a  plea  that  he  render  to  Henry  Staunton  a  bag  containing  8/. 

Middlesex. 

Nicholas  Hokan,  vicar  of  the  parish  church  of  Aketon,  co.  Suffolk,  for 
not  appearing  to  answer  James  Ormond,  knight,  touching  a  debt  of 
39/.  9«.  e^d.  Middlesex. 

John  Richard  alici*  Richardson  late  of  BysshopcrophiU,  co.  Notting- 
ham, *  husbondman,'  for  not  appearing  before  the  justices  of  the  Bench 
to  answer  Robert  Stillyngton,  clerk,  touching  a  debt  of  4  marks. 

London. 

Thomas  Cheteman  late  of  Ebbosham,  co.  Surrey, '  gentilman,'  for  not 
appearing  to  answer  John  Skynner  touching  a  debt  of  100/. 

Middlesex. 

William  Cane  of  Morle  Swanton,  co.  Norfolk,  yeoman,  for  not 
appearing  before  John  Pi^ysot  and  his  fellows,  justices  of  the  Bench 
of  the  late  king,  when  sueid  with  Margaret  Cane  of  Morle  Swanton, 
*  widow,*  co-executrix  with  him  of  the  will  of  John  Cane  late  of  Morle 
Swanton,  to  answer  a  plea  that  .he  render  40s,  to  John  Lobbok 
and  Edmund  Somer.  Norfolk. 

Stephen  West  of  Brankctre,  co.  Essex,  *  yoman,'  for  not  appearing  to 
answer  Henry  Bourgchier,  knight,  Ralph  Botiller  of  Sudeley,  knight, 
John  Hende  the  younger,  esquire,  William  Beau£tz  and  Robert 
Elderbek  touching  a  trespass  committed  by  himself  and  John 
Duraunt  of  Bemeston,  co.  Essex,  *  gentilman,'  John  Curteys  of  Bok- 
kyng,  CO.  Essex,  *  yoman,'  John  Wayte  of  Branketre,  *  yoman,'  and 
John  Pal^eman  late  of  Halstede,  co.  Essex,  gentilman.  Essex. 

William  Le  late  of  Ewell,  co.  Surrey,  clerk,  for  not  appearing  to 
answer  Robert  Walsam  touching  a  debt  of  10/.  Suffolk. 

Simon  Emme  of  Yexworth  Thorpe,  co.  Suffolk,  'barker,'  for  not 
appearing  to  answer  John  Spilmon  touching  a  .lebt  of  ]  I3s.  4d. 

Middlesex. 

John  Seymour,  Tcitizen^  and  'meroor'of  London,  for  not  appearing 
before  the  justices  of  the  Bench  to  answer  John  Fynkell,  citizen  of 
London,  touching  a  debt  of  20/.  London. 

Thomas  atte  Wode  of  Willesdon,  co.  Middlesex, '  husbondman,'  for  not 
appearing  before  John  Prysot  and  his  fellows,  justices  of  the  Bench 
of  the  late  king,  to  answer  John  Edward  of  Hicchyn  alicu  John 
Hicchen  of  the  county  of  Hertford,  husbandman,  touching  a  debt  of. 
41*.  Sd.  CO.  Hertford.' 

Laurence  Rabet  of  Redyng,  co.  Berks,  *  chapman,'  for  not  appearing 
before  the  justices  of  the  Bench  to  answer  Thomas  Niche  touching  a 
debt  of  50f.  London. 

Thomas  Massanger  alias  Messenger  of  Estpekham,  co.  Kent, 
'husbondman,'  for  not  appearing  to  answer  Thomas  Wayte  of 
Sedclescombe  touching  a  debt  of  53«.  4c/.  Kent. 

William  Wylughby  o/uu  Willnghby  kte  of  Boston,  co.  Lincoln,  esquire 
for  not  appearing  before  John  Irysot  and  his  fellows,  justices  of  the 
Bench  of  the  late  king,  to  answer  John  Gille,  citizen  and  tailor  of 
London,    and  Robert  the  Bastard  of  Exeter    touching   debts   of 
25/.  15*.  and  20/.  respectively.  London. 

John  Adam  of  Stepyll  Bomsted,  co.  Essex  *  bocher '  for  not  appearing 
to  answer  Udmuud,  abbot  of  Westminster,  touching  a  debt  of  40/. 

Middlesex, 


256 


CALENDAR  OF  PATENT  ROLLS. 


1463. 

Maj  13. 

Westminster. 


May  6. 
WeBtminster. 

Juno  18. 
Westminster. 


June  21. 
Westminster. 


June  29. 
Westminster. 

June  28. 


Juno  24. 
Westminster. 


July  1. 

Westminster. 


July  2. 
Westminster. 


Oct.  12. 
Westminster. 


June  28. 
Westminster. 

Oct.  19. 

Westminster. 


Membranb  22. 

Robert  Starkj  late  of  London,  fishmonger,  for  not  appearing  to  answer 
Thomas  6K>lj,  citizen  and  skinner  of  London,  fouching  a  debt  of  18/. 

London. 

John  Wark  late  of  Scardeburgh,  no,  York,  chaplain,  for  not  appearing 
before  the  justices  of  the  Bench  to  answer  Alan  Horslej  touching  a 
trespass.  York. 

Robert  Swayn  late  of  Higham,  co.  Kent,  ^  husbondman,'  for  not 
appearing  to  answer  Nicholas  Condorowe  touching  a  trespass 
committed  bv  himself  with  John  Ciiist  of  Higham,  *  husbondman,' 
and  John  Osbom  of  Olyve,  co.  Kent,  *  husbondman.'  Essex. 

John  Dubenej  of  Thetford,  co.  Norfolk,  jeoman,  for  not  appearing 
before  John  Prysot  and  bis  follows,  justices  of  the  Bench  of  the  late 
king,  to  answer  a  plea  that  he  render  lOO^.  to  Richard  Wynhous 
of  Groat  Massingham,  co.  Norfolk^  John  Wyuhows,  chaplain, 
Richard  Wynhows  the  younger  and  Laurence  Atthewater  of  Great 
Massyngham,  executors  of  the  will  of  Hugh  Wynhows.       Norwich. 

Thomas  Stubbes  of  Wytham,  co.  Essex,  clerk,  for  not  appearing  to 
answer  Thomas  Smyth,  late  vicar  of  Wytham,  and  Thomas  Warner 
of  Wytham  the  eider  touching  a  debt  of  lOL  Suffolk. 

Richard  Crokehorn  alias  Crewkarne  late  of  Childeheya,  co.  Dorset, 
'gentylman,'  for  not  appearing  to  answer  Thomas  Calwodley  touching 
a  debt  of  100^.  Devon. 

Stephen  Aps  late  of  Lamberherst,  co.  Sussex,  *  husbondman,'  for  not 
appearing  before  the  justices  of  the  Bench  to  answer  a  plea  that 
he  render  10/.  to  Robert  son  of  Reginald  Derlyngton,  late  citizen 
and  fishmonger  of  London,  and  William  Clyfford,  citizen  and  fish- 
monger of  London,  executors  of  the  will  of  the  said  Reginald. 

Middlesex. 

Nicholas  Henley,  late  of  Norwich,  late  vicar  of  the  parish  church  of 
Mutford  with  the  parish  church  of  Barnaby,  co.  Suffolk,  annexed,  for 
not  appearing  before  John  Prysot  and  his  fellows,  justices  of  the  Bench 
of  the  late  king,  to  answer  a  plea  that  he  render  8  marks  to 
Robert  Appulby,  John  Wygenhale,  late  oiiicial  of  the  consistory 
of  Thomas  Brouns,  late  bishop  of  Norwich,  and  Robert  Upton,  late 
servant  of  the  bishop,  the  executors  of  the  will  of  the  latter,  John, 
prior  of  Holy  Trinity,  Norwich,  and  Richard  Walsham,  sacristan  of 
the  church.  Norwich. 

Robert  Clerk  of  Lodyngton  by  Rothewell,  co.  Northampton, '  husbond- 
man,'  for  not  appearing  to  answer  John  Kynnesman,  esquire,  touching 
a  trespass.  co.  Northampton. 

John  Herman  late  of  Lound  in  Luthynglond,  co.  Suffolk,  *  chapman,' 
for  not  appearing  before  the  justices  of  the  Bench  to  answer  John 
Speryng,  *  lytster,'  citizen  of  Norwich,  touching  a  debt  of  10/. 

London. 

Edmimd  Wykes  late  of  Canterbury,  co.  Kent,  esquire,  for  not  appearing 
before  John  Prysot  and  his  fellows,  justices  of  the  Bench  in  the  late 
reign,  to  answer  John  Gylle,  citizen  and  tailor  of  London,  touching 
a  debt  of  41,  5f .  London. 

Thomas  Langley  late  of  Westmallyng,  co.  Kent,  *  draper,'  for  not  appear, 
ing  before  the  justices  of  the  Bench  to  answer  Andrew  Body,  citizen 
and  vintner  of  London,  touching  a  debt  of  12/.  London. 

WilHam  Motte  late  of  Weston  under  Leszerd,  co.  Stafford,  'yoman,' 
for  not  appearing  before  John  Prysot  and  lu9  fellows,  justices  of  the 


3  EDWABD  1V.~Pabt  I. 


267 


1463. 


Oct,  20. 

Westminster. 

Oct.  19. 
VVestminster. 


Oct.  19. 

Westminster. 


Oct  26. 

Westminster. 


1464. 

Jan.  23. 

Westminster. 


Feb.  1. 

Westminster. 


Jao.  24. 
Westminster. 


Jan.  24. 

Westminster. 

Feb.  IL 
Westminster. 


Feb.  10. 
Westminster. 

Feb.  6. 
Westminster. 


1463. 

Oct  10. 
Westminster. 


)l     86914. 


Membrane  22 — cont. 

Bench  in  the  late  reign,  to  answer  touching  a  plea  that  he  render  his 
account  to  Bichard  Fepwelles  for  the  time  when  he  was  his  receiver. 

Stefford. 

John  Wjkkes  of  Qeyst  by  Folshaniy  co.  Norfolk,  ^  husbondman/  for  not 
appearing  to  answer  Thomas,  lord  of  Scales,  knight,  and  Thomas 
&ilbbury  tonching  a  debt  of  80/.  Norfolk. 

Alexander  Fayreford  late  of  Suthwerke,  co.  8arrey,  *  squyer,'  for  not 
appearing  before  the  justices  of  the  Bench  to  answer  G-eoffrey  Feldyng, 
late  alderman  and  citizen  and  mercer  of  London,  touching  a  debt  of 
628. 2d.  Middlesex. 

John  Wolf  late  of  Haveryng  atte  Boure,  co.  Essex,  husbandman,  for 
not  appearing  before  John  Prisot  and  his  fellows,  justices  of  the 
Bench  of  the  late  king,  to  answer  William  Mody  of  London, '  mason,' 
touching  a  debt  of  8/.  6^.  Sd.  London. 

Master  Edmund  Shcryff  of  Cambridge,  chaplain,  for  not  appearing 
before  Bichard  Neuton  aud  his  fellows,  justices  of  the  Bench  of  the 
late  king,  to  answer  Thomas  Fordham  of  Cambridge,  *  baxter,' 
touching  a  debt  of  40^.  Cambridge. 

William  Knyght  late  of  Hony ton,  co.  DeTon, '  gentilnuui,'  alicu  late  of 
Souihmolton,  co.  Devon,  for  not  appearing  before  the  justices  of 
the  Bench  to  answer  a  plea  that  he  render  20/.  to  William 
Bourgchier,  knight,  and  SLatharine  his  wife,  executrix  of  the  will  of 
Hugh  Stucle  alias  Stukle,  esquire.  Middlesex. 

John  Barker  of  Melford,  co.  Suffolk,  the  elder,  *  fuller,'  for  not  appearing 
before  John  Prysot  and  his  fellows,  justices  of  the  Bench  of  the  lato 
king,  to  answer  Thomas  Hill  the  younger  touching  a  debt  of 
7/.  10*.  4d.  Suffolk. 

John  Clement  of  Stowelongtoft,  co.  Suffolk, '  skryvener,'  for  not  appear- 
ing before  John  Juyn  and  his  fellows,  justices  of  the  Bench  of  the 
late  king,  to  answer  the  prior  of  Mendham  touching  a  debt  of 
5  marks  6s.  Sd,  Suffolk. 

John  Newbolt  alias  Smyth  of  Northweld,  co.  Essex,  ^  husbondman,'  for 
not  appearing  before  John  Prysot  and  his  fellows,  justices  of  the 
Bench  of  the  late  king,  to  answer  Thomas  Bataill,  citisen  and 
*  mercer '  of  London,  touching  a  debt  of  40s. 

John  Stanle,  late  of  Northampton,  *  dyer,'  for  not  appearing  before  the 
justices  of  the  Bench  to  answer  William  Taylour,  citizen  and  grocer 
of  London,  touching  a  debt  of  12/.  London. 

Bobert  Lewys  late  of  Pensford,  co  Somerset,  'chapman,'  for  not 
Appearing  to  answer  WiUiam  Pratt  aud  Thomas  Wotton,  citizens 
and  mercers  of  London,  touching  a  debt  of  40s.  London. 

John  Wyllyamson  of  HarkKtowe,  co.  Lincoln, '  husbondman,*  for  not 
appearing  to  answer  the  prior  of  St.  John  of  Jerusalem  in  England 
touching  a  debt  of  40s.  Lincoln. 

Richard  Bermyngham  late  of  Bepynghale,  co.  Lincoln, '  yoman,'  for  not 
appearing  to  answer  Alice  Burte  and  Robert  Begge  of  Lincoln 
touching  a  debt  of  6/.  Lincoln. 

Mbmbranv  21. 

John  White,  late  of  Calne,  co.  Wilts,  *  yoman,'  for  not  appearing  to 
answer  a  plea  that  he  render  40$,  to  William  Hill,  citizen  and 
barber*surgeon  of  London,  executor  of  the  will  of  Richard  Welles, 
late  citizen  and  barber-surgeon  of  I^ondon,  Middlesex, 


268 


CALENDAR  OF  PATENT  ROLLS. 


1463. 

Oct.  14. 
Westminster. 


Oct.  31. 
Westminster. 


Nov.  4. 
Westminster. 


Nov.  4. 
Westminster. 


July  6. 
Westminster. 


1464. 

Feb.  1. 
Westminster. 

Jan.  80. 
Westminster. 


Feb.  4. 
Westminster. 


Feb.  6. 
Westminster. 


Jan  23. 

WdstmiDster. 


1463. 

Nov.  9. 
W<*8t  minster. 


Membrane  21 — cont. 

John  Neell  late  of  Rawemersshy  co.  York,  clerk,  for  not  appearing 
before  John  Prjsot  and  his  fellows,  justices  of  the  Bench  in  the 
late  reign,  when  sued  with  Thomas  Nutte  of  Rawemerssh, '  paryssh- 
clerk,'  to  answer  John  Jenkjnson  touching  a  trespass.  York. 

John  Palmer  late  of  Little  Bowdon,  co.  Northampton,  *  husbondman,' 
for  not  appearing  l^efore  the  justices  of  the  Bench  to  answer 
John  Page  of  Hynkeley  touching  a  debt  of  16/.  \Zs.  Ad. 

Leicester. 

William  Drue  alias  Smyth  of  Coven tre,  *wolman,'  and  Nicholas  Longe 
late  of  Bristol,  ^  marchaunt,'  for  not  appearing  before  the  justices  of 
the  Bench  of  the  late  king  to  answer  Thomas  Shiplode  touching  a 
debt  of  1 11.  1  ^i.  Sd,  Bristol. 

Richard  Bray  late  of  Worcester,  'gentilman,'  alias  *  surgeon,'  for  not 
appearing  before  John  Prysot  and  his  fellows,  justices  of  the 
Bench  in  the  late  reign,  to  answer  a  plea  that  he  render  21/.  12^. 
to  John  Colvyle,  citizen  and  grocer  of  London,  and  John  Parker, 
citizen  and  writer  of  court  band  (scriptor  litere  curialis)  of  London, 
executors  of  the  will  of  William  Wetenhale,  citizen  and  grocer  of 
Lokidon.  London. 

Hamo  Straunge  late  of  Rokeswell  in  the  parish  of  Wrythill,  co.  Essex, 
esquire,  for  not  appeai*ing  when  sued  with  Alice  his  wife,  late  the 
widow  of  Thomas  Pygot  late  of  Roxwell,  esquire,  deceased,  to 
answer  Thomas  Lyffyn,  citizen  and  draper  of  London,  touching  a 
debt  of  14/.  16«.  4c/.,  Thomas  Loughton,  citizen  and  tailor  of  London, 
touching  a  debt  of  21/.  6«.  10^(/.,  John  Norys,  citizen  and  skinner 
of  London,  the  elder,  touching  a  debt  of  77;.  2e/.,  John  Rytte, 
^  gentilman,'  touching  a  debt  of  40;.,  and  John  Tenterden,  citizen  and 
*  iremonger,^  of  London,  and  William  Clon,  citizen  and  writer  of  court 
hand  of  London,  touchinjK  a  debt  of  20/.;  and  for  not  appearing 
to  answer  John  Stonys,  citizen  and  skinner  of  London,  touching  a 
debt  of  100«.  4c/.  London. 


John  Knyght  of  Banbury,  co.  Oxford, '  taylour,'  for  not  appearing  before 
the  justices  of  the  Bench  to  answer  William  Fildyng,  esquire, 
touching  a  debt  of  19/.  Leicester. 

William  Harwell,  late  of  London, '  tquyer,'  for  not  appearing  to  answer 
Thomas  Reymond,  citizen  and  tailor  of  London,  touching  a  debt  of 
40«.  London. 

John  Gale  of  Groton,  *  husbondman,*  for  not  appearing  before  John 
Prysot  and  his  fellows,  justices  of  the  Bench  of  the  late  king,  to 
answer  Thomas  Munkyu  touching  a  debt  of  40*.  Suffolk. 

John  Skernyng  late  of  London, '  geniilman,'  cUias  late  of  Spekesworth, 
CO.  Norfolk,  for  not  appearing  before  the  justices  of  the  Bench  to 
answer  Thomas  Gay  the  elder,  citizen  and  tailor  of  London,  touching 
a  debt  of  1 18*.  London. 

Brian  Roulli  late  of  Driffeld,  co.  York,  '  gentilman/  for  not  appearing 
before  John  Prysot  and  his  fellows,  justices  of  the  Bench  of  the 
late  king,  to  answer  a  plea  that  he  render  a  horse,  worth  5  marks,  to 
Guy  Fairefax.  York. 

Joan  Glover  of  Wy trjrsham  in  the  Isle  of  Oxney,  co.  Kent,  *  wedowe,' 
for  not  appearing  before  the  justices  of  the  Bench  to  answer 
Alexander  Rogger  touching  a  debt  of  40*.  Kent, 


3  EDWABD  IV.— Part  I. 


269 


1464 

Feb.  10. 
Westminster. 

Feb.  11. 
Westminster. 


Feb.  11. 
Westminster. 


Feb.  11. 
Westminster. 


Membrane  21 — cont^ 

Jobn  Barljng  late  of  Cryxhetbe,  co.  Essex,  ^  gentilman/  for  not 
appearing  to  answer  Jobn  Drayton,  citizen  and  mercer  of  London, 
touching  a  debt  of  60^.  London. 

Thomas  Bowyngton  late  of  Sioneham,  co.  Suffolk,  '  yoman,'  for  not 
appearing  before  John  Prysot  and  his  fellows,  justices  of  the  Bench 
of  the  late  king,  to  answer  William  Porter,  citizen  and  goldsmith 
of  London,  toaching  a  debt  of  34/.  Suffolk. 

John;Barwas8he  late  of  Eynesford,  co.  Kent,  ^  yoman,'  for  not  appearing  • 
before  the  justices  of  the  Bench  to  answer  the  dean  and  canons  of 
the  king's  free  chapel  of  St.  Stephen  within  his  palace  of  Westminster 
touching  a  debt  of  14/.  Middlesex. 

John  Dunham  late  of  Kyngeslon  on  Hull,  chaplain,  for  not  appearing 
when  sued  with  John  Marsshall  late  of  Kyngeston  on  Hull,  merchant, 
executor  with  him  of  the  will  of  John  Goose  late  of  Kyngeston  on 
Hull,  merchant,  to  render  8/.  19^.  6^.  to  Thomas  Hemelsay  of  York, 
merchant.  City  of  York. 


1643. 

May  4. 

Westminster. 


May  5. 
Westminster. 


May  11. 
Westminster. 


May  10. 


May  II. 

Westminster. 


Mbmbjune  20. 

Grant  for  life  to  William  Erington,  king's  esquire,  in  recompence  for  his 
serrice  for  20  years  in  the  wars  in  France  and  his  expulsion  from  his  lands 
and  goods  there,  of  all  lands  and  tenements  late  of  Thomas  Soules  in  the 
Hengb  in  Standfordharo,  oo.  Northumberland,  of  the  yearly  value  of  30f.,  31«. 
from  a  free  rent  in  Uileston  by  Haukwell,  co.  Northumberland,  a  tenement 
in  Ingowe  called  ^the  pasturefelde '  in  the  same  county,  of  the  yearly  value 
of  7ir.,  in  the  king*s  hands  after  the  decease  of  John  Felton,  knight,  and  the 
farm  and  rent  of  the  town  or  lordship  of  Newbigging  by  Wodhom, 
CO,  Northumberland  y  of  the  yearly  value  of  10/.  6«.  in  the  king's  hands 
by  the  forfeiture  of  John  Balyall,  late  king  of  the  Scots.  By  p.s. 

Inspeximui  and  confirmation  to  William  Byrde,  Thomas  Hertwell^ 
William  Portlouthe  and  John  Abell,  the  wardens,  and  the  commonalty  of 
the  mistery  of  the  saddlers  of  the  city  of  London  of  letters  patent  dated 
20  March,  18  Bichard  II.  being  a  licence  for  the  men  of  that  mistery  to 
form  one  commonalty,  to  choose  four  wardens  for  the  governance  of  the 
mystery,  and  to  acquire  in  mortmain  lands  to  the  value  of  20/.  yearly  for 
the  sustenance  of  the  old  and  infirm  and  a  chaplain. 

For  2  marks  paid  in  the  hanaper. 

Revocation  of  the  protection  with  clause  volumuSf  for  one  year,  granted  25 
April  by  letters  patent  to  John  Besomby  alias  Besenby  late  of  l^achesden, 
CO.  Bedford,  and  Loodon,  '  gentilman,'  going  on  the  king's  service  in  the 
company  of  John  Wode,  king's  esquire,  victualler  of  the  town  and  castle  of 
Calais  and  the  marches  there  in  the  parts  of  Picardy,  on  the  safe-custody, 
defence  and  victualling  of  the  same,  because  he  delays  in  London,  as 
William  Hampton  and  Bartholomew  James,  sheriffs,  have  certified. 

Licence,  for  ISs,  4d.  paid  in  the  hanaper,  for  William  Benham  to  grant 
to  Thomas  Cupper,  vicar  of  Kyngesclere,  and  William  Axebrugge  a 
messuage  and  four  virgates  of  land  in  Edmundesthorp  within  the  parish  of 
KyngeMleref  oo.  Southampton,  held  in  chief;  and  for  them  to  re-grant  the 
same  to  the  said  William  and  Eleanor  his  wife  and  the  heirs  of  their  bodies, 
with  remainder  to  his  right  heirs. 

In$p€jpimu9  and  eonfirtnatioo  to  Giles  Brugge,  kinsman  and  heir  of 
the  undar-mantioned  William  Berkelay,  of  a  charter  of  Bichard  I.  as 
foUowB : — 

Ricardua  dei  gratia  rex  Anglie^  dux  Nortnannie^  Aquitannie,  comes 
Andegavie^  archiepiscopis^  eptscopis^  abbatibus^  comitibusj  baronibus 
justiciariis,  vicecamitibns,  ballivis,  ministris  et  omnibus  fidelibns  suis  salulem, 

b2 


260  CALENDAR  OP  PATENT  ROLLS. 


1463.  Membrane  20 — corU. 

Sciatis  nos  concessisse  et  presenti  carta  nostra  cof^rmasse  Willdmo  filio 
fVillelmi  de  Berkelay  et  heredihus  suis  donationem  quam  Robertus^  comet 
GloucestrCy  dedit  Willelmo  de  Berkelay^  patri  predictiJVillelmij  de  terra  de 
Eldresfelda  et  quam  Willelmtis  comes  GloucestrCy  Hlius  predicti  Roberti 
comitis  Gloucestre,  eidem  Willelmo  Jilio  Willelmi  reddidit  et  concessit ^ 
tenendam  sibi  et  heredibus  suis  de  eo  et  heredibus  suis  per  servicium  unius 
militis,  sicut  rationabiles  carte  predictorum  donatorum  quas  inde  habet 
testantur.  Quare  volumus  etjirmiter  precipimus  qt$odpredictus  WUlelmus 
filius  Willelmi  de  Berkday  et  heredes  sui  post  eum  predictam  terram  de 
Eldresfeld  habeant  et  teneant  bene  et  in  pacCy  libere  et  quiete^  integre  et 
honoTvflce  cum  omnibus  libertatibus  et  liberis  consuetudinibus  ad  eandem 
terram  pertinentibus J  per  servicium  prenominatum  sicut  in  cartis  predictorum 
donatorum  rationabiliter  continetur.  Teste  Roberto  de  TumeK  sen\e9callo'\ 
And\€gav%e\Warino filio  Geroldiy  Thofna  Basset, Alano  Basset, Petro de 
Stokes,  Willelmo  de  Stayno,  Datum  per  manum  E.  Eliensis  episcopi, 
cancellarii  nostril  apud  Kahagnes  scxviii.  die  Januarii  anno  reqni  nostri 
decimo.  For  \  mark  paid  in  the  hanaper. 

April  10.         Pardon  lo  George,  abbot  of  tho  monastery  of  St.  Peter,  Westminster,  of 

Westminster,  all  offences  committed  by  him  against  all  statutes  and  ordinances  concerning 

apostolic  letters  and  bulls.  By  p.8. 

Ma3r  6.  Licence  for  the  acquisition  in  mortmain,  after  inquisition,  by  John,  the 

VfTestminster.  abbot,  and  the  convent  of   St.   Mary's,   Pyppewell,   of  lands  and  other 

possessions,  not  held  in  chief,  to  the  value  of  40/.  yearly.  By  K. 

Memorandum,  that  on  18  November,  1 1  Henry  VIL  they  acquired  lands 

to  the  value  ofil,  yearly  in  part  satisfaction  of  the  within  written  60/.  (sic). 

Mhj  lt3.         Presentation  of  Roger  Brodc  to  the  parish  church  of  Calstok,  in  the 
Westminster,  diocese  of  li^xeter,  void  by  resignation  of  Robert  Pevesey. 

May  13.  Grant,  during  pleasure,  to  the  guardian  and  convent  of  the  Friars  Minora  in 

Westminster,  the  University  of  Cambridge  of  25  marks  yearly  at  the  receipt  of  the 
Exchequer  from  4  March,  1  Edward  IV.  as  was  granted  to  them  by 
Henry  III.  and  Edward  I.  and  other  kings  of  England  by  letters  patent. 

By  p.6. 

May  12.         Pardon  to  Thomas  Mongomerey,  knight,  sheriff  of  Suffolk,  for  the  escape 

Westminster,  of  Thomas  Tower  late  of  Hoxon,  co.  Suffolk,  *  laborer,'  indicted  of  felony 

before  the  justices  of  the  peace  in  that  county.  By  p.s. 

Membrane  19. 

March  12.  Grant  for  life  to  Florence  late  the  wife  of  Robert  Savage  of  the  office  of 
Westminster,  the  custody  of  the  king's  wardrobe  in  the  city  of  London  called  ^  Prince 
Warderobe,'  receiving  2d.  daily  for  wages  from  the  issues  of  the  duchy  of 
Cornwall,  in  the  same  manner  as  the  said  Robert  Savage,  late  keeper  of  the 
wardrobe,  with  all  other  accustomed  profits,  in  lieu  of  a  Like  grant  to  her  by 
letters  patent  dated  3  February,  1  Edward  lY,  surrendered.  By  p.s. 

March  12.        Appointment  for  life  of  Thomas  Wath,  esquire,  as  master  and  surveyor 

Westminster,  of  all  alien  pereons  called  ^  brokers '  within  the  city  of  London  and  the 

liberty  of  the  same,  with  the  accustomed  fees.  By  p.s. 

March  8.         Grant  for  life  to  the  king's  servitor  Robert  Pemberton,  one  of  the  yeomen 

[Westminster,  of  the  crown,  of  W.  daily  for  his  fee  from  the  fee  farm  of  the  town  of 

Norhampton.  By  p.8. 

March  14.       Revocation  of  the  protection  with  clause  volumus,  for  one  year,  lately 

Westminster,  granted  by  letters  patent  to  Robert  Sampson, '  mercer,'  going  on  the  king's 

service  in  the  company  of  John  Wode,  king's  esquire,  victualler  of  the  king's 

town  and  castle  of  Calais,  on  the  safe-custody  and  defence  of  the  same, 

1}ecause  tho  sh^n^Q  of  London  hi^ve  certified  that  he  has  not  gone. 


3  EtoWA&i)  IV.— Part  I.  261 


1463.  Membrane  19 — cont. 

Grant  for  life  to  Thomas  Hall,  bv  fealty  and  a  rent  of  I5s.  yearly,  of  a 
croft,  80  acres  of  land,  60  acres  of  pasture,  10  acres  of  meadow  and  lOs,  of 
rent  in  Kyngesnorton  called  *  Farmous '  in  the  county  of  Worcester,  in  the 
king's  hands  by  the  forfeiture  of  James,  late  earl  of  Wiltshire.  By  p.s. 

March  1 4.  Licence  for  the  king's  kinsman  John  lord  Scrope,  son  and  heir  of  Henry 
WMtmiDBter.  late  lord  le  Scrope,  to  enter  freely  into  all  castles,  manors,  lordships,  lands, 
reversions,  rents,  services,  views  of  frank-pledgo,  courts  lect,  knights'  fees, 
advowsons  and  other  possessions  in  the  counties  of  York,  Bichemond,  Cam- 
bridge and  Hertford,  the  bishopric  of  Durham  and  elsewhere  in  the  realm  of 
which  Margaret  late  the  mother  of  the  said  Henry  was  seised  and  which 
should  descend  to  him,  with  all  issues  of  the  same  from  the  time  of  her  death. 

By  i).B. 

March  23.  Licence  for  the  king's  brother  John,  duke  of  Suffolk,  who  mamed  the 
Westminster,  king's  sister  Eliznbeth  and  to  whom  the  king  confirmed  the  title  of  duke 
and  a  grant  of  40/.  yearly  granted  to  his  father  William,  late  earl  of  Suffolk, 
by  Henry  VI.  to  enter  freely  into  all  castles,  towns,  lordships,  honours, 
manors,  lands,  reversions,  rents,  services,  hundreds,  views  of  frank-pledge, 
courts  leet,  fairs,  markets,  knights'  fees,  advowsons  and  other  possessions  in 
England  and  Wales  and  the  marches  of  Wales  of  which  his  father  was  seised, 
without  proving  his  age.  By  p.s. 

MSMBRANE  18. 

March  8.         Grant  for  life  to  Bobert  Fenne,  esquire,  of  the  office  of  ranger  of  the 
Westminster,  king's  forest  of  Saucy,  co.  Northampton,  with  the  accustomed  fees. 

By  p.s. 

.  General  pardon  to  John  Smothing  of  Warkeworth,  co.  Northumberland, 
'yoman.'  By  p.s. 

Grant  for  life  to  Nicholas  Thomas,  for  his  good  service  in  the  town  of 
Calais  and  in  divers  journeys  in  England,  of  the  office  of  one  of  the  king's 
Serjeants  at  arms,  with  wages  of  12^.  daily  from  Michaelmas  last,  from 
which  day  he  has  occupied  the  said  office,  from  the  faim  and  issues  of  the 
king's  town  and  manor  of  Thorp  ali<i$  Kyngesthorp,  co.  Northampton,  and 
a  coat  of  the  livery  of  the  suit  of  the  esquires  of  the  household  yearly  at 
Christmas  at  the  great  wardrobe.  By  p.s. 

Vacated  by  surrender  and  cancelled  so  far  as  the  I2d,  daily  are  can- 
cemed,  because  on  29  Aprily  6  Edward  7K.  the  king  by  other  letters  patent 
granted  to  him  I2d.  daily  from  MichaelmaSy  4  Edward  IV.  at  the  receipt 
of  the  Exchequer, 

Grant  for  life  to  William  Lennouth,  '  gentilman,'  of  the  office  of  coroner 
within  the  king's  lordship  of  Bamburgh,  co.  North umbei land,  with  all  lands 
and  other  accustomed  profits,  in  the  same  manner  as  Thomas  Knapton  held 
the  same,  or  John  de  Lermouth  in  the  right  of  Margaret  his  wife ;  and  also 
all  wreck  of  sea  within  the  lordship.  By  p.s. 

March  9.         Grant  for  two  years  and  six  months  from  Christmas  last  to  the  merchants 

Westminster,   of  Almain,  who   have  the  house  in    London   called   '  Ghiildehalla  Teu- 

tonicorum,'  that  they  may  enjoy  all  privileges  granted  to  them  by  former 

kings.     \Fcedera.']  By  p.s. 

March  10.        General  pardon  to  the  king's  kinsman  Henry  Beauford,  knight,  late  duke 
Weitmiiifter.  of  Somerset.  By  K. 

March  10.        General  pardon. to  John  Chiryden^  late  of  London,  *  draper.'         By  p.s. 
Westminster. 

*  Jan.  27.         Ghrant  to  the  king's  servant  Thomas  Front,  esquire,  and  the  heirs  male  of 

Westminster,  his  body  of  two  parts  of  the  lordships  of  Cradeley  and  Hagley,  co.  Worcester, 

lately  forfeited  by  James^  late  earl  of  Wiltshire^  and  afterwards  granted  by 


262  OALBNDAB  OF  PATENT  ROLLS. 


1463.  Membrane  18 — coni, 

letters  patent  to  Fulk  Stafford,  esquire,  deceased  without  issue  of  his  body, 
and  also  the  reversion  of  the  third  part  of  the  same  on  the  death  of  Margaret, 
late  the  wife  of  the  said  Fulk,  with  all  rights  and  profits,  Bj  pjs. 

Vacated  because  otherwise  in  the  second  year. 

Oct  17.  Grant  for  life  to  Robert  Spaldyng  of  the  office  of  one  of  the  king's 

WestminBter.  serjeants  at  arms  in  the  place  of  Alexander  Shefeld,  with  wages  of  lZ<f. 

dailj  from  the  fee  farm  and  issues  of  the  citj  and  countj  of  London  and 

Middlesex  and  a  coat  of  livery  of  the  suit  of  other  serjeants-at-arms  yearly 

at  Christmas  at  the  great  wardrobe. 

Vacated  because  otherwise  in  the  first  year. 

Mandate  in  pursuance  to  the  sheriffs  of  London,  and  they  are  to  pay  all 
arrears  of  his  wages  from  17  October  in  the  first  year. 

Membhane  17. 

March  17.        Grant,  during  pleasure,  to  Ralph  Percy,  knight,  of  authority  to  receive 

Wettmiiuter.  repentant  rebels  who  have  not  been  attainted  into  the  king's  grace  at  his 

discretion,  and  to  grant  their  lives  or  licence  to  quit  the  realm  to  such  as 

are  attainted.  By  K.  &  C. 

Appointment  of  John  Asteley,  knight,  to  take  all  kinds  of  victuals 
necessary  for  the  victualling  of  the  king's  castle  of  Alnewyke  and  carriage 
for  the  same. 

March  18.  Grant  to  the  men,  burgesses  and  provost  of  the  borough  of  Great  Yarmouth 
Westminftter.  of  50  marks  yearly  for  10  years  from  Michaelmas  last  from  the  fee  farm  of 
the  town  for  the  repair  and  security  of  the  port;  as  the  town  is  charged 
with  the  yearly  sum  of  60/.  from  the  fee  farm  of  the  same  and  the  farm  of 
a  place  in  the  high  sea  n^^ar  the  entrance  of  the  port  called  ^  Kirkelerode ' 
and  also  with  100/.  at  each  tenth  and  fifteenth,  but  the  profits  of  the  fishery 
have  been  seized  and  retained  by  subjects  of  the  king  and  foreigners  and 
the  trafiic  in  merchandise  has  diminished  owing  to  the  insecurity  of  the 
port  to  such  an  extent  that  they  will  otherwise  have  to  leave  the  town. 

By  p.8. 

March  28.        Grant  for  life  to  Hugh  Mondy  of  the  office  of  ranger  of  the  king's  forest 

Westminster,  of  Shnte,  co.  Wilts,  with  the  accustomed  fees  from  the  issaes  of  the  countj 

of  Wilts.  By  p.8. 

April  1.  Revocation  of  the  protection  with  clause  volnmnsy  (or  one  year,  granted 
Wefltminster.  7  February  by  letters  patent  to  William  Keeche  alias  Kyche  of  Ipswich, 
CO.  Suffolk,  merchant  alias  '  tanner '  alias  *  baker,'  going  on  the  king's 
service  in  the  company  of  John  Wodc,  king's  esquire^  victualler  of  Uie 
king's  town  and  castle  of  Calais  and  the  marches  there  in  the  parts  of 
Picardy,  on  the  safe-custody,  defence  and  victualling  of  the  same,  because 
he  delays  in  Ipswich  as  appears  by  certificate  of  the  sheriff  of  Suffolk. 

March  20.        Appointment  of  Richard,  bishop  of  Down  and  Connor,  to  take  the  oath 
WestminBter.  and  homage  of  the  king's  kinsman  John  de  Isle^  earl  of  Ross  and  lord  of 

the  Isles,  and  Donald  Ballagh  and  John  de  Isle  son  and  heir  of  Donald. 

[Fcedera.]  By  K* 

March  11.        Grenei'al  pardon  to  Thomas  Cai*re,  captain  of  the  king's  castle  of  Donston- 

Westmlnster.   borough,  Thomas  Clenell,  constable  of  the  castle,  James   Dalton,   John 

Carre,  John  Colvile  and  liobeit  Hogeeon  and  other  persons  who  lately  held 

the  castle  against  the  king,  who  have  taken  an  oath  of  allegiance)  for  all 

offences  committed  by  them  before  2o  February  last.  By  K. 

April  2.  General   pardon   to  Joan   Ghirard,  late  of    Brigewater,  co.    Somerset, 

Westminster,   'servaunt.'  Byp.B. 

May  25.  Pardon  to  Vincent  I'itelosdcu,  i*eceivor  of  all  ioixlships,  manors  and  lands 

Weskminitfr.  late  of  James,  earl  of  Wiltshire^  in  the  counties  of  WiltSi  Donet^  Somerset 


3  EDWARD  IV.— Part  I.  268 


14bo.  Metnbrane  17 — conL 

aod  Devon  or  late  of  Thomas,  late  earl  of  Devon,  in  tlie  counties  of  Devon, 
Ck)rnwall,  Somerset,  Dorsut,  Berks,  Buckingham  and  Southampton,  of  all 
offenoes  committed  by  him  and  all  forfeitures,  debts  and  accounts  due  from 
him  to  the  king.  Bj  Km 

Mbmbbanb  1G. 

April  1.         Appointment,  until  1  October,  of  John  Walker  to  take  wheat  for  the 
Westmineter.   expenses  of  the  household  and  carriage  for  the  same. 

Bj  bill  of  the  treasurer  of  the  household. 
The  like  of  Thomas  Dalamar. 

Maj  18.  Appointment,  until  20  N'ovember,  of  Richard  Jeny,  serjeant  of  the  buyer 

Westminster,  of  the  household,  to  take  oxen,  muttons,  calves,  pigs,  sait-and-fresh- wafer 
fish  and  other  necessaries  for  his  office  and  carriage  for  the  same. 

By  bill  of  the  treasurer  of  the  household. 

March  30.        Grant  for  life  to  Eleanor,  duchess  of  Somerset,  of  222/.  4«.  6 J.  yearly, 

Westminster,    viz.   111/.  2«.  3</.  from   the  petty  custom   in   the  port  of  London  and 

111/.  28.  3d,  from  the  treasurer  at  the  receipt  of  the  Exchequer.       By  p.s. 

April  28.         Mandate  to  all  bailiffs  and  others  to  permit  John  Jonston,  priest,  monk, 

Westminster,  aliax  John  Johnston,  chaplain,  a  native  of  the  town  of  Jonston  in  Scotland, 

staying  at  Poslyngford  in  England,  who  has  taken  an  oath  of  fealty,  to 

inhabit  the  realm  peaceably  and  enjoy  Ins  goods.  By  p.s. 

May  3.  Like  mandate  iu  favour  of  Laurence  Martyn,  chaplain,  a  native  of  the 

Westminster,   town  of  Jedcworth  in  Scotland,  staying  at  Clayhall,  co.  Essex,  in  England. 

By  p.8. 

May  2.  Presentation  of  John  Haute,  vicar  of  the  perpetual  vicarage  of  the  parish 

Westminster,  church  of  Cheswik,  in  the  diocese  of  London,  to  a  moiety  of  the  perpetual 

chantry  of  Holy  Trinity  commonly  called  *  le  Chamell '  of  Wycombe,  in 

the  diocese  of  Lincoln,  on  an  exchange  of  benefices  with  Stephen  Wycombe. 

May  5.  Grant  for  life  to  Robert  Lincoln,  yeoman  of  the  king's  chamber,  at  the 

Westminster,  request  of  the  king's  kinsman  the  earl  of  Uessemond,  of  20/.  yearly  from 
the  fee  farm  of  the  king's  city  and  chamber  of  Lymeryk  in  Ireland,  for  his 
good  service  iu  Ireland  in  attendance  on  the  said  earl  in  the  repression  of 
the  traitor  John  Ormond  and  his  adherents  and  in  coming  on  a  message  to 
the  king  from  the  said  earl  at  the  time  that  the  city  of  Waterford  was 
taken  and  destroyed  by  the  said  traitor  whereby  certain  tenantries  of  his 
within  the  city,  of  the  yearly  value  of  16/.  or  17/.  of  rent,  were  mined. 

Byp.s.  [1167.] 

May  1 .  Pardon  to  Jobn^  bishop  of  Worcester,  for  the  escape  of  John  Waughan, 

Westminster.  Roger  Ghlover  and  Walter  ap  John,  attainted  clerks,  and  other  prisoners  in 

his  custody  from  the  prison  of  his  palace  at  Worcester.  By  p.s* 


Mbmbbanb  15. 

May  11.  Pardon  to  John  Mery  of  Salford,  oo.  Oxford,  '  husbondman,'  of  his 
Westanaster.  outlawry  in  the  eoanty  of  Surrey  for  not  appearing  before  the  king  when 
sued  with  John  Nowers  of  Takley,  co.  Oxford,  esquire,  Thomas  Lydeard  of 
Olymton,  co.  Oxford,  esquire,  Richard  Nowers  of  Old  Wodestoke,  co* 
Oxford,  *  gentilman,'  Hugh  Btamburgh  late  of  Bristol,  '  marchaunt/  and 
Walter  Duke  of  Hampton  Gbiye,  co.  Oxford,  <  yoman,'  to  answer  Edward 
Hunte  of  Spellisbury,  co.  Oxford,  'laborer,'  for  having  conspired  at 
Guldcforde  and  cauFed  him  to  l)e  charged  with  having  with  Walter 
Tylmyngtou  of  Spellisbury,  '  wever,'  lain  in  ambush  on  the  high  way  at 
Spellisbury  with  bows,  arrows,  swords,  lanoea  and  other  arms  on  Trinity 
Sunday,  38  Henry  YI,  and  assaulted  John  Nowen^  esquire,  and  Thomas 


264  OALENDAB  OF  l?Af  ENt  ROLLS. 


1463*  Membrane  16 — cont, 

Ljdjardi  esquire,  and  carried  off  a  caflket  worth  i6J.,  5  marks  in  monejy 
and  a  sword  worth  6s.  of  the  goods  of  John  Nowers,  and  seized -and 
detained  in  prison  at  Oxford  until  he  was  acquitted  before  Kichard 
Quatermajnes  and  Bichard  Danvers  and  their  fellows,  justices  of  ojer  and 
terminer  in  the  county  of  Oxford  of  the  late  king  ;  the  said  John  Mery 
haring  surrendered  to  the  Marshalsea  prison,  as  John  Markham,  chid^ 
justice  of  the  King's  Bench,  has  certified. 

March  20.        Grant  for  life  to  Richard  Byndewyn,  clerk  of  the  king^  kitchen,  for  his 

Westminster,  good  service  in  that  office  and  otlier  offices  within  the  household,  of  the 

kind's  manor  of  Euston,  co.  Somerset,  with  courts,  wards,  marriages,  reliefs, 

escheats,  waifs,  strays,  views   of  frank-pledge  and  other  profits,  worth 

10  marks  yearly.  By  p.8. 

May  1 7.  Revocation  of  the  protection  with  clause  volumas^  for  one  year,  granted 
Westminster.  12  February  by  letters  patent  to  John  Porchctt  alias  Purchet  of  Gayton 
in  ie  Mersshc,  co.  Lincoln,  *  husbondman,'  going  on  the  king's  service  in 
the  company  of  John  Wode,  king's  esquire,  victualler  of  the  king's  town 
and  castle  of  Calais,  on  the  safe-custody  and  custody  of  tbe  same,  because 
he  delays  at  Gayton  in  le  Mersshe,  as  Thomas  Blount,  esquire,  sheriff  of 
Lincoln,  has  certified. 

May  10*         Tnspeximus  and  confirmation  to  the  prior  and  convent  of  Bodmyne,  with 
Westminster,  the  exception  of  a  certain  clause  in  the  charter  of  John,  of  letters  patent 
dated  7  February,  3  Richard  II,  inspecting  and  confirming  the  following, 
with  the  exception  of  tbe  said  clause  ; 

1.  A  charter  dated  at  Vaudreuil,  17  July,  —  John. 

2.  A  charter  dated  at  Westminster,  12  June,  13  Edward  I,  inspecting  and 

confirming  a  charter  dated  13  December,  1  John. 
2.  A  writing  of  Richard,  formerly  earl  of  Poitou  and  Coi*nwall. 

For  4.0s,  paid  in  the  hanaper. 

May  16.  Grant  for  life  to  the  king's  servitor  William  Clerc  of  Wenlok,  esquire, 
Westminster,  of  the  office  of  keeper  of  the  king's  castle  of  Brugenorth,  co.  Salop,  alias 
Bruges,  alias  the  office  of  constable  of  the  said  castle,  from  6  May, 
1  Edward  IV,  receiving  6d,  daily  as  in  the  time  of  Edward  III.  from  the 
fee  farm  of  the  king's  town  of  Bruges  alias  Brugenorth  and  the  mills  of 
Pendeleston,  co.  Salop. 

Membrane  14. 

March  27.       Exemplification,  at    the    request    of    John,  duke  of  Suffolk,  of  the 
Westminster,  following : — 

1.  A  writ  of  diem  clausit  extremum  dated  7   May,  28  Henry  VI, 

directed  to  Stephen  Knyght,  late  esclieator  in  the  county  of 
Kent,  on  the  death  of  William,  duke  of  Suffolk,  tenant  in  chief. 
[Itiquisif tones  Post  Mortem^  28  Henry  VL  No,  26,  m,  1.] 

2.  An    inquisition    taken  at  Grencwich,  co.   Kent,   on    12   October, 

29  Henry  VI,  before  the  said  eocheator  by  oath  of  Thomas  Cowle, 
John  Tychaudc,  Thomas  Merymani  John  Bulbek  of  Hobury,  Simon 
Russell,  John  Bulbek  of  Slape,  Geoffrey  Herte,  Bichard  Brok,  John 
Bulbek  of  Waletstrete,  John  Howe,  William  Lane  John  Jurdan, 
John  Parys,  John  Dryver  and  Thomas  Bulbek  of  Speche.  The  said 
duke  held  in  his  demesne  as  of  fee  a  messuage  in  Depford,  co.  Kent, 
some  time  of  John  Cornewaiile  worth  6«.  8cf.  yearly,  held  of  the 
manor  of  Weslgrenewich,  and  he  and  Alice  his  wife,  who  survives 
him,  held  in  their  demesne  as  of  fee  in  her  right  the  manor  of 
Westgi*enewich,  co.  Kent,  held  of  the  king  of  his  castle  of  Dover 
by  tbe  service  of  rendeiing  5^.  yearly  at  the  said  castle  at  Michaelmas, 
and  worth  20/.  yearly.  He  died  on  2  May,  and  John,  now  duke, 
is  his  son  and  heir  and  was  of  the  age  of  8  years  on  27  September 
last.     \Ibid,  m,  2.] 


3  teDWARD  IV.— t ART  I.  265 


1463*  Membrane  14— eonf. 

April  30.  Revocation  of  the  protection  ivith  clause  volumus,  for  one  jesr,  granted 
Wefltmintter.  1  September  by  letters  patent  to  Henrj  Fleus  of  Colcestre,  co.  Essex, 
'  mATchaant/  alias  Flewse, '  gentilman/  going  on  the  king's  service  in  the 
company  of  John  Woode,  esquire,  victualler  of  the  king's  town  and  castle 
of  Calais,  on  the  safe-custody,  defence  and  victualling  of  the  same  and  the 
marches  in  the  parts  of  Picardy,  because  he  delays  at  Westminster,  co. 
Ididdlesex,  as  appears  by  ceitificate  of  the  sherilf. 

May  2.  Grant,  during  pleasure,  to  Henry  Sylver  of  the  office  of  tronnge  and 

Westminster,  pesage  in  the  port  of  Southampton  and  ports  and  places  adjacent,  receiving 

the  accustomed  fees.  By  bill  of  the  treai;urer. 

May  18.         Pardon  to  Thomas  Mauncell  of  London,  'gentilman,'  alias  lute  of  Bristol, 

V\'e6tmiDster.  esquire,  late  escheator  in   the  counties  of  Somerset  and  Dorset,  of  all 

offences  committed  by  him  and  all  fines,  forfeitures  and  accounts  due  to 

the  king.  By  p.s. 

May  20.         Iwtpeximus  and  confirmation  to  the  men  of  the  town  of  Crykelade  of 
Westminster,  letters  patent  dated  15  March,  20  Henry  VI.  inspecting  and  confirming 
letters  patent   dated   24  January,   51   Henry  III.   inspecting  and  con- 
firming letters  patent  of  Henry  II,  being  a  grant  to  them  of  certain  liberties. 

For  6«.  Sd,  paid  in  the  hanaper. 

May  23.         Grant  for  life  to  the  king's  servant  John  Rokell  of  the  office  of  keeper 

Westminster,  of  the  king's  forest  of  Kyngeswode  Heth,  co.  Essex,  with  the  accustomed 

fees.  By  p.s. 

May  18.  Grant  to  Thomas,  archbishop  of  Canterbury,  George,  bishop  of  Exeter 
Westminster,  and  chancellor,  Richard,  earl  of  Warwick  and  Salisbuiy,  William  Bourgh- 
chier,  knight,  lord  Fytz  Wareyn,  WiUiam  Wagott,  clerk,  Thomas  Barnes, 
Thomas  Pachet  and  Richard  Vyell  of  the  manors  of  Anry,  Lytelham  with 
the  advowson  of  the  church  of  the  town.  Vera  Worthy,  Petermerlon, 
Milton  DameroU,  Cokeburv,  Yendestowe  with  the  advowson  of  the  church, 
and  the  advowson  of  the  church  of  South  Tauton,  co.  Devon,  tho  manor  of 
Estrannemere,  co.  Somerset,  all  messuages,  lands,  rents  and  services  in 
Hankeford,  Hals,  Uppecote,  Brendesworthy,  Wayte,  Sodworthy,  Aisserige, 
Bydeford.  Torryton,  Beme,  Tadyporte,  Higham,  Rolston,  Bevyschill, 
Passhcote,  Possobury,  Raisshley,  Fenton,  Danyshampton,  Langtre,  Ille- 
hershe,  Horton,  Bnckysh,Huyssh,  Hillc,Holdewill,  Shefterigge,  Duardyny, 
Knoll,  Kelenyke,  Estbury  and  Quarum  with  all  other  messuages  and  lands 
in  the  counties  of  Devon,  Cornwall  and  Somerset,  with  advowsons,  knights' 
fees,  courts  leet,  views  of  frauk-pledge,  warrens,  franchises  and  all  other 
appurtenances,  late  of  Thomas  Ormond  and  Anne  bis  wife  as  the  right 
of  the  said  Anne,  daughter  of  Anne  late  duchess  of  Exeter  sister  of  Thomas 
Mountague,  knight,  some  time  earl  of  Salisbury,  father  of  AJesia  late  countess 
of  Salisbury,  to  hold  during  the  life  of  tho  said  Thomas  Ormond  without 
rendering  anything  to  the  king.  By  K. 

May  24.  Licence  for  John  Burcestre,  knight,  and  Elizabeth  his  wife  to  grant  the 
Westminster,  manors  of  Ceton  Delavale,  Duxfeld,  Northdissington  and  Black  Calverton 
and  twenty  messuages,  1,000  acres  of  land,  120  acres  of  meadow,  2,000  acres 
of  pasture  and  8  marks  of  rent  in  Hartlowe,  Bitlesden  and  Brampton,  held 
in  chief,  to  Thomas  Hoo,  esquire,  Thomas  Fulthorp,  esquire,  John  Martyn, 
John  Benet,  Robert  Whitwell  and  John  Andrewe  and  the  heirs  of  the 
said  Robert. 

MSMBRANB   13. 

April  16.         Greneral  pardon  to  Thomas  Harryes  late  of  Ross,  co.  Hereford, '  yoman.* 
Westminster.  By  p  b^ 

April  18.         The  like  to  William  Trevyskyn  alias  Trevesken  late  of  London,  <  bruer,* 
Westminster,  for  all  offences  comtiitted  by  him  before  30  December  last.  By  K, 


266  CALENDAB  OF  PATENT  BOLLS. 


1463.  Membrane  13 — cont, 

April  17.  The  like,  on  account  of  his  InDooenoe  and  simplicity  and  out  of  roverence 
Westminster,  for  the  day  of  Parascevo  wherein  ho  made  petition  to  the  king  for  pardon, 
to  Richard  Hayward  of  Ljsse,  co.  Southampton,  ^  husbondman,'  who  was 
taken  and  committed  to  prison  by  the  officers  of  that  county  for  the 
receipt  of  counterfeit  money,  which  Thomas  atte  the  Swere  and  his 
accomplices  handed  to  him  for  exchange,  becaose  the  said  Thomas  and 
others  were  not  taken  as  forgers  and  committed  to  prison.  By  p.s. 

April  20.         The  like  to  William  Legh  aliasi  Othelee  of  Lincoln,  <  parchemynmaker,' 
Warwick,      for  all  offences  committed  by  him  before  18  April.  By  K. 

April  24.         The  like  to  John  Brown  late  of  London,  *  dier.'  By  p.s. 

Westminster. 

April  18.         The  like  to  John  Puuohone  late  of  London  <  carpenter,'  alias  ^  brewer,' 
Westminster,  for  all  offences  committed  by  him  before  80  December  last.  By  K. 

May  2.  Pardon  to  Thomas  Wake  of  Blysworth^  co.  Northampton^  esquire,  sheriff 

Westminster,  of  Northampton,  son  and  heir  of  Thomas  Wake,  esquire,  of  all  escapes 

of  felons  and  other  offences  and  all  fines,  forfeitures  and  accounts  due  to 

the  king  before  20  March  last.  By  p.s. 

May  2.  General  pardon  to  John  Hodeleston  of  Milhum,  esquire,  of  all  offences 

Westminster,  against  the  statutes  of  cloths  and  caps  and  all  other  offences  committed  by 

-    him  before  1  March  last.  By  p.s. 

May  10.  General  pardon  to  Bichard  Palmer,  *  gentilmaa,'  Thomas  Grace,  *  habur- 
Westminster.  dassher,*  Simon  Williamson,  *  boucher,'  Bobert  Aleve,  *  mason,'  Thomas 
Voyche,  *  husbundeman,'  John  Bailly,  *  ostiler,'  Thomas  Wright,  *  hus- 
bundeman,'  Stephen  Axstede,  *  husbundeman,'  John  Jeye,  '  husbundeman,' 
Thomas  Fynne,  *  husbundeman,'  James  Grubbe,  *  husbundeman/  William 
Kensale,  <  husbundeman/  John  Donet,  *  shipnum,'  Bichard  Barowe,  '  hus- 
bundeman,' William  Hemes,  <  dier,'  and  William  Oouper  alieu  Euston, 
'  husbundeman,'  all  of  Doyer.  By  p.s. 

April  26.         The  like  to  Robert  Gybson  of  York,  *  cordewaner,'  alias  Gibson, '  yoman,' 
Westminster,  for  all  offences  committed  by  him  before  16  April.  By  K. 

May  20*  Pardon  to  Thomas  Payn  of  Estderham,  co.  Norfolk,  *  gentilman,'  of 
Westminster,  his  outlawry  in  the  city  of  Norwich  for  not  appearing  before  the  king  to 
satisfy  him  of  his  ransom  on  account  of  a  trespass  against  John  Hey  don 
of  which  he  was  convicted  in  tha  late  reign  by  his  own  recognition,  he 
having  surrendered  himself  to  the  Marshalsea  prison,  as  John  Markham, 
chief  justice  of  the  King's  Bench,  has  certified* 

June  10.        Grant  for  life  to  Nicholas  Crome  of  the  custody  of  t^e  smaller  piece  of 

Westminster,  the  seal  for  the  recognisance  of  debts  according  to  the  form  of  the  statute 

of  merchants  of  Acton  Burnell  in  the  city  of  Norwich,  with  the  accustomed 

fees.  By  pus. 

June  9.  Signification  to  J.  bishop  of  Ohichester  of  the  royal  assent  to  the  election 

Westiniiister.  of  John  Newton  as  abbot  of   the  Benedictine  monastery  of  St.  Martin, 
Battle. 

Mbmbranb  12. 

May  22.         Licence  for  Edward  Ralegh,  son  and  heir  of  William  Ralegh,  esquire, 

Westminster,   who  is  of  full  age,  to  enter  freely  into  all  manors,  lordships,  lands  and 

other  possessions  whicli  his  father  held  at  the  time  of  his  death.  By  p.s* 

May  20.         Inspeximns  and  confirmation  to  Reginald   Gray  of  Wilton  of  a  charter 

Westminster,  dated  "at  Westminster,  16  February,  11  Henry  III,  inspecting  and  confirming 

It  charier*  dated  [7  March,  6]  John  \Rotnli  Cartarumy  p.  146],  being  a 


*  The  ending  of  this  obarter  is  omitted  hflro. 


8  EDWARD  IV.— Part  1.  267 


1463.  Membrane  12 — cont. 

rnt  to  Henry  de  Longs  Camps  of  Wilton  in  Herefordshire.  Witnesses  : — 
bishop  of  London,  P.  bishop  of  Winchestori  J»  bishc^  of  Bath^  R.  bishop 
of  Salisbury,  U.  de  Burgo^  earl  of  Kent,  the  justioiaryi  William  de  Liueford, 
Richard  de  Argent',  stowardsi  Stephen  de  Sedgrave,  William  de  Oantilupo 
and  others.  For  6t»  Sd.  paid  in  the  hanaper. 

May  26.         General  pardon  to  Roger  Whitlowe  late  of  Burton  Wode,  co.  Lancaster, 

Westminster,  chaplain,  alias  Roger  Whittelowe  late  of  Chester,  alias  Roger  Whytelawe, 

for  all  oflences  committed  by  him  before  20  May  last.  By  p.s. 

June  3.         Commission  to  the  king's  kinsman  John  Neville  of  Montagu,  knight,  and 

Weflttninster.  James  Strangweys,  knight^  to  receive  Humphrey  Nevll  Into  tlie  king's 

grace  at  their  discretion,  and  to  promise  him  lettdhi  of  pardon.  By  K. 

July  10.         Grant  for  life  to  Roger  Baker  of  Shrewsbury  of  the  office  of  one  of  the 
Westmiiister.  king's  foresters  within  his  forest  of  Morff,  with  the  accustomed  fees,  in  the 
same  manner  as  William  Parlour. 

Vacated  became  elsewhere  in  the  roll  of  the  Bccond  year. 

May  7«  Grcneral  pardon  to  Henry  Lowes,  knight,  of  all  offences  oommitted  by  him 

Weetminster.  and  all  debts,  forfeitures  and  fines  due  to  the  king.  By  K. 

May  14.  Grant,  during  pleasure,  from  Michaelmas,  39  Henry  VI.  to  the  prior  and 
Westminster,  convent  of  the  onler  of  Friars  Preachers  in  the  University  of  Cambridge 
of  25  marks  yearly  at  the  Exchequer^  as  they  had  of  the  grants  of  Henry 
III.  £dward  I.  Edward  II.  Edward  IH.  Richard  II.  HenrT  IV.  Henry 
V.  and  Henry  VI.  to  sustain  the  doctrine  of  the  Catholic  faith  and  to  pray 
for  the  good  estate  of  the  king  and  the  souls  of  his  progenitors.  By  p.s. 

May  14.         Pardon  to  James  Assheby  late  of  Stafford, '  gentilman,'  of  his  outlawry 

Westminster,  in  the  county  of  Middlesex  for  not  appearing  before  the  king  to  answer 

him  touching  divers  trespasses,  he  having  surrendered  to  the  Marshalsea 

prison,  as  John  Markham,  knight,  chief  justice  of  the  King's  Bench,  has 

certified. 

May  28.         Pardon  to  John  Brokeman,  esquire,  late  escheator  of  Henry  VI.  in  the 

Westminster,  counties  of  Kent  and  Middlesex,  a/t€M  of  the  county  of  Kent,  ^  g6Dtilmaii»' 

of  all  offences  committed  by  him  and  all  forfeitures,  debts  and  accounts 

due  to  the  king  before  5  October  last.  By  p.s. 

June  11.        General  pardon  to  Geoffrey  Doyle  late  of  Dover,  co*  Kent,  ^gentilman' 
We«tiaiiut«r.  o/uM  esquire.  By  K. 

MembraSb  11. 

June  7.  Grant  for  life  to  Richard  Whetehill,  esquire,  and  Adrian  Whetehill,  for 

Westminster,  their  good  service  in  the  town  and  marches  of  Calais,  of  the  ofBces  of 
controller  of  the  town  and  marches  and  the  king's  mint  within  the  town  and 
the  offices  of  changer  and  assay er  of  the  mint,  receiving  20/.  yearly  of 
Honey  of  England  for  their  fees  for  the  offices  of  controller  and  20/.  yearly 
for  the  sustenance  of  themselves  and  their  derks  from  the  king's  customs  of 
Sd,  from  each  sack  of  wools  and  wool-fells  exported  (torn  the  town  or  at 
the  hands  of  the  treasurer  <^  Calais  from  the  issues  of  hii  office  at  their 
choice,  and  also  40  marks  yearly  as  above  for  the  offices  of  changer  and 
as.sayer.  Grant  also  to  the  said  Richard  of  20/.  yearly  for  the  sustenance 
of  himself  and  his  clerks  in  the  said  office  of  controller  from  26  July, 
1  Edward  IV,  since  which  time  he  has  held  the  office,  from  the  issues  of 
the  town  and  marches.  By  p.6. 

Vacated  by  surrender  and  cancelled  so  far  at  the  20/.  granted  to 
Richard  and  Adrian  for  tlie  sustenance  qf  themselves  and  their  clerks  are 
cancemedy  because  on  16  December^  6  Edward  IV,  the  king  made  a  like 
grant  to  tJiem  by  other  letters  patent. 

Mandate  iu  pursuance  to  the  treasurer  of  the  town  or  the  collectors  of  the 
customs. 


268  Calendar  oi?  patent  rolls. 


1463.  Membrane  1 1 — cont. 

Jane  1 1.  Grant  to  John,  earl  of  Shrewsbury,  son  and  heir  of  John,  late  earl  of 
Wettmioster.  Shrewsbury,  during  his  minority,  for  his  sustenance,  of  the  manor  of  Fame- 
ham,  CO.  Buckingham,  two  parts  of  the  manors  of  Whaddon,  Huntley  and 
Longhope,  two  parts  of  a  moiety  of  the  manor  of  Beggeworth,  co.  Gloucester, 
and  two  parts  of  the  manor  of  Corf  ham,  co.  Salop,  which  came  into  the 
hands  of  Henry  YI.  on  the  death  of  his  father^  without  rendering  anything 
to  the  king.  By  p.8. 

March  10.  Grant  for  life  to  the  king's  servitor  Edmund  Molyneux,  esquire,  of  20 
Weftminiter.  marks  yearly  out  of  the  38/.  which  the  abbot  and  convent  of  Wynchecombe  are 
bound  to  pay  yearly  at  the  Exchequer  from  the  farm  of  the  hundreds  of 
of  Kiftesgate,  Holford  and  Greston  with  the  fairs  and  markets  in  the  town 
of  Wynchecombe  and  waif  and  stray,  chattels  of  felons  and  fugitives,  views 
of  frank  pledge  and  all  other  liberties.  By  p.s. 

Mandate  in  pursuance  lo  the  abbot  and  convent. 

June  15.  Grant  for  life  to  the  king's  servant  John  Halghton,  yeoman  of  the  crown, 

Westminster,  of  6d.  daily  for  his  fee  from  1  February  last  from  the  fee  farm  of  the  manor 

of  Falwesley,  co.  Northampton.  By  p.s. 

Mandate  in  pursuance  to  the  men,  bailiffs  or  other  occupiers  of  the  said 
manor. 

June  17.         Pardon   to  Thomas  Langton  late    of  Thorp  Waterfeld  alias  late  of 

Westminster.  London,  esquire,  for  all  treasons,  robberies,  felonies  and  murders  committed 

by  him.  By  p.s. 

July  1.  General  pardon  to  Robert  Broman  late  of  Russhden,  co.  Northampton, 

Weetminster.  *  husbondman,'  alias  Robert  Write,  *  smyth  '  alias  '  yoman.'  By  p.s. 

June  30.         Grant  to  Hugh  Brice  of  the  city  of  London,  goldsmith,  for  certain  jewels 

Westminster,  delivered  by  him  to  the  king,  of  200/.  from  the  first  moneys  from  the  issues 

of  the  duchy  of  Cornwall  and  the  issues  of  the  stannary  or  coinage  of  tin  in 

the  counties  of  Cornwall  and  Devon.  By  p.s. 

July  2.  Grant  for  life  to  the  king's  servants  John  Langford,  one  of  the  yeomen 

Westminster,  of  the  crown,  and  John  Melseham  and  William  Pole,  yeomen  of  the  king's 
chamber,  of  the  manor  of  Barowhall,  co.  Essex,  and  a  messuage,  200  acres 
of  land,  2  acres  of  wood  and  500  acres  of  marsh  in  Little  Wakering, 
Pritwelle,  Estwodelegh,  Raylegh,  Thunderlegh  and  Barowe,  co.  Essex,  in 
the  king's  hands  by  the  forfeiture  of  Henry  Coventre,  esquire,  attainted  of 
high  treason  by  authority  of  Parliament  at  Westminster,  4  Noyember, 
1  Edward  IV.  By  p.s, 

Membranb  10. 

June  12.  Whereas  William  Herbert,  knight,  lord  Herbert,  whom  the  king  has 
Westminster,  raised  to  the  rank  of  a  baron,  holds  to  himself  and  his  heirs  and  assigns  the 
castles,  manors  and  lordships  of  Crughowell  and  Trevetour  in  Wales  as  of 
the  king's  castle  and  lordship  of  Dynase  alias  Dynas  and  Blaynlleveny  alias 
Blaynlloveny  in  Wales,  which  are  members  and  parcels  of  the  earldom  of 
March ;  the  king  now  releases  all  clum  in  the  said  castles,  manors  and 
lordships  of  Crughowell  and  Trevetour,  and  grants  that  he  may  hold 
them  in  chief  by  the  service  of  one  knight's  fee  without  any  inter- 
mediary. His  tenants  shall  be  quit  of  attendance  at  courts  within  the 
said  castle  and  lordships  of  Dynase  and  Blaynlleveny^  and  he  shall  have 
full  power  of  administering  justice  within  the  said  castles,  maonrs  and 
lordships  of  Crughowell  and  Trevetour,  and  his  tenants  and  other  residents 
within  the  same  shall  haye  common  of  pasture  for  their  beasts  within  the 
king's  forest  called  *  Foreste  Reynold '  in  Wales  and  all  easements  within 
the  forest.  By  K. 

June  17.         Gbant  to  Roger  Ree,  king's  esquire,  usher  of  the  king's  chamber,  and 
Westminster,  his  heirs  and  assigns  of  all  lands  and  possessions  late  of  John  Nayler^. 


3  EDWABI)  IV.— Part  I.  269 


1463.  Membrane  10— con^ 

esquire^  in  the  countj  of  Middlesex,  the  duchy  of  Cornwall,  and  elsewhere 
within  the  realm,  in  lieu  of  another  grant  to  him  bj  letters  patent  dated 
21  December,  1  Edward  IV.  surrendei-ed,  because  by  other  letters  patent 
dated  16  May,  2  Edward  IV.  the  king  granted  certain  lands  called  '  Mikyll 
Roland '  in  the  county  of  Essex  to  his  uncle  the  earl  of  Essex  and  Isabel 
his  wife,  although  he  had  previously  granted  them  to  the  said  Roger  by  the 
said  letters  surrendered.  By  p.s. 

June  21.  Pardon  to  Humphrey  Nevylle,  esquire,  for  all  treasons,  insurrections  and 

Westmineter.  rebellions  committed  by  him  and  for  his  escape  from  the  prison  of  (he  Tower 
of  London ;  grant  that  he  shall  be  a  true  subject  of  the  king  as  if  the  act 
in  Parliament  at  Westminster,  4  November,  1  Edward  IV.  had  not  been 
passed ;  and  grant  to  him  of  all  his  manors,  lands  and  other  possessions 
which  he  formerly  had,  except  the  manor  and  town  of  Gillyng,  co.  York, 
during  the  life  of  Edmund  Hasty  nges,  knight,  and  of  the  said  manor  and 
town  after  the  death  of  the  said  Edmund.  By  K. 

Nov.  3.  Grant  for  life  to  Richard  Culpepir  of  an  annuity  of  10/.  from  the  issues 

Westminster,  of  the  king's  manor  of  Huntyngfeld,  co.  Kent.  By  p.s. 

June  23.         Grant  to  the  mayor  and  comtoonalty  of  the  borough  of  Plymmouth  of 
Westminster.  20/.  yearly  from  the  customs  and  subsidies  in  the  ports  of  Plymmonth  and 
Fowy  for  10  years  from  Michaelmas  next,  for  their  relief  and  the  safe- 
custody  and  defence  of  the  borough.  By  p.8. 

June  30.         Genera!  pardon  to  Nicholas  Latymer,  knight,  attainted  by  authority  of 
Westmioster.  Parliament  at  Westminster,  4  November,  1  Edward  IV.  By  p.8. 

Mbmbranb  9. 

March  12.        Pardon  to  Adrian  Bowynson,  a  native  of  Middelburgh  in  Soland,  aliai 

Westminster.  Adrian  Bowynoon,  ^Docheman,'  for  the  death  of  William  Clement  late  of  the 

town  of  Gravesende.  By  p.s. 

March  6.        Appoiutment,  until  7  September,  of  John  Travers  to   provide  oxen, 

Westminster,  muttops,  salt-  and  fresh-water  fish  and  all  other  necessaries  for  the  office  of 

buyer  of  the  king's  household.       By  bill  of  the  treasurer  of  the  household. 

The  like  of  Henry  Forthe  as  above. 

March  14.        Pardon  for  life  to  John  Collanwode,  esquire,  and  Robert  his  son,  farmers 

Westminster,   of  the   manor   of   Estlington,   co.   Northumberland,  of  a  yearly  rent  of 

4/.  16«.  8^.  from  the  said  manor  which  they  are  bound  to  pay  to  the  king, 

viz.  4/.  to  the  sheriflf  of  Northumberland  and  16^.  P</.  to  the  receiver  of  the 

king's  castle  of  Bamburgh,  and  of  all  arrears  of  the  same.  By  K. 

March  6.  Grant  for  life  to  the  king's  servant  William  Sayer  from  4  March,  1 
Westminster.  Edward  IV.  of  the  offices  of  constable  of  the  king's  castle  of  Bostormell, 
CO.  Cornwall,  and  parker  of  the  park  of  Bostormell,  and  the  herbage  and 
pannage  of  the  park,  receiving  3c/.  daily  in  tho83  offices  from  the  issues  of 
the  ducby  of  Cornwall,  as  was  allowed  in  the  account  of  John  Kendale,  late 
receiver  of  the  duchy,  in  the  year  38  Edward  III.  for  his  wages  in  the 
offices,  with  all  other  profits.  By  p.s. 

Mandate  in  pursuance  to  the  receiver. 

March  14.  Pardon  to  the  prior  and  convent  of  the  house  of  Newestede  on  Ancoln, 
Westminster,  co.  Lincoln,  of  the  Sempringham  order,  of  the  foundation  of  Henry  IT.  of 
a  yearly  pension  of  100«.  which  they  paid  to  the  abbot  and  convent  of 
Longevillers  in  France  for  certain  lands  in  that  county  and  which  is  now 
in  the  king's  hands,  because  the  said  lands  do  not  at  present  exceed  the 
value  of  10*.  yearly.  By  K. 

March  30.        Grant  for  life  to  Mary  do  Bedford,  lady  de  La  Sparre,  of  40/.  yearly  from 
Westminster.  Michaelmas   last  from  the   petty   custom  in  the  port  of  Lonaon,  in  lieu 

of  a  like  grant  to  her  b^  letters  patent  dated  17  September,  surrendered. 

[-Fopc/era.]  By  K, 


270  CALENDAR  OF  PATENT  ROLLS. 


X463,  Membrane  0 — cant, 

April  5.  Grant  for  life  to  John  Burgh,  esquire,  of  all  landa  late  of  William 

WMtniotUr.  TailbovB,  knight,  in  Spaldyng,  Pjnchebek,  Bnttorton,  Kirton  in  Holand, 
SkirbeV  Lincoln  and  Kirton  in  Lynde^ey,  co.  Lincoln,  in  ihe  king\s  hands 
by  his  forfeiture  and  rebellion,  not  exceeding  the  value  of  5  marks  yearly. 

By  p.s. 

Appointment  of  Richard  Sutton  to  provide  salt  and  fresh-water  fish  for 
the  expenses  of  the  king's  household,  and  carriage  for  the  same. 

By  bill  of  the  treasurer  of  the  household. 

April  11.        General  pardon  to  Leonard  Boninsegnya  alicu  Boncasyne  of  London, 
Weftminsten  merchant,  cUias  Boneasyne,  merchant  of  Florence.  By  p.s. 

April  11,        Pardon  to  Laurence  Ruzelay  iate  of  London,  ^  marchaunt/  lUiiu  Laurence 

Wastmintter.  Ruzelai  late  merchant  of  Florence,  for  all  murders  and  felonies  committed 

by  him  before  the  Purification.  By  p.s. 

The  like  to  Jerome  de  Grace  late  of  London, '  raarohannt,'  alias  *  brokour,* 
alias  Jerome  de  Graciis.  By  p.8. 

April  15.         Inspeximus  and  confirmation  of  letters  patent  of   the  king's  brother 

Windsor.      George,  duke  of  Clarence  and  lord  of  Richemond,  the  king's  lieutenant  in 

Ireland,  dated  at  Westminster,  1  April,  appointing  his  kinsman  Thomas 

Dessemond,  earl  Dessemond,  his  deputy  in  Ireland  at  will.  By  K. 

May  9.  Gt^neral  pardon  to  Richard  Parker  alias  Bayly,  late  of  London,  ^  yoman.' 

Wettxniuster.  By  p.s. 

June  4.  Grant  to  Thomas  Hawekyns  of  the  deanery  of  the  king's  free  chapel  of 

Westminster.   St.  Mary,  Stafibrd,  in  the  diocese  of  Coventry  and  Lichfield,  void  by  the 

resignation  of  William  Wore,  late  dean.  By  p.s.    [1207.] 

Grant  to  Robert  Slymbrigge  of  the  prebend  of  Syroscote  in  the  king*8 
collegiate  church  of  Tarn  worth,  in  the  diocese  of  Coventry  and  Lichfield, 
void  by  the  resignation  of  Thomas  Hawkyns,  late  prebendary.  By'pjB.[  1206.] 

Mandate  in  pursuance  to  J.  bishop  of  Coventry  and  Lichfield. 

Mandate  in  purstuince  to  the  dean  and  chapter  of  the  paid  church. 

Membrane  S. 

June  18.         Grant  for  life  to  Walter  Devereux,  lord  of  Ferrers,  of  the  office  of 

Westnioattr.  captain  of  the    king's  castle   of  Aberufltwyth  in   South  Wales,  with    the 

aocnstomed  fees.  By  K. 

April  29.  Grant  to  Master  James  Friis,  the  king's  physician,  and  his  heirs  and 
Westninster.  assigns  of  all  the  meusuages,  tenements  and  reversions  in  the  city  of  London 
late  of  John  Bramme  and  afterwards  of  Edward  Ellesniere,  esquire,  in  the 
king's  hands  by  reason  of  the  forfeiture  of  the  said  Edward  and  by  force 
of  an  act  in  Parliament  at  Westminster,  4  November,  1  Edward  IV.  with 
aU  issues  from  the  said  4  November.  By  p.s. 

June  14.  Licence  for  the  king's  kinsman  Richard,  earl  of  Warwick  and  Salisbury, 
WesCmmster.  to  grant  castles,  manors,  lordships,  lands,  rents  and  services,  of  the  yearly 
value  of  1,000/.,  held  in  chief,  although  the  reversion  of  the  same  may  belong 
to  the  crown  on  his  death  without  issue,  to  George,  bishop  of  Exeter,  John, 
earl  of  Worcester,  John  Markham,  Robert  Dauby,  Walter  Blounte,  James 
Strangwais,  Walter  Wrottesley,  knights,  Thomas  Witham,  Thomas  Colte, 
Henry  Sotehill  and  William  Kelsy  in  fee  simple  to  pay  his  debts  and  fulfil 
his  will  alter  his  de»th.  By  K. 

Jane  14.         Grant  for  life  to  Thomas  Trefry.  esquire,  of  10  marks  yearly  from  6 

WestMiMter.  September,  1  Edward  IV,  from  the  issues  of  the  duchy  of  Cornwall  in  lieu 

of  a  grant  to  him  of  10  marks  yearly  at  the  exchequer  of  Lostwythyell,  co. 

Cornwall,  by  letters  patent  dated  C  September,  1  Edward  IV.  surrendered 

because  invalid.  By  p.s. 


3  EDWARD  IV.— Part  I.  271 


1463*  Membrane  8 — cotit. 

June  17.  Appointment  for  life  of  William  Herbert,  king's  knigbt^  lord  Herbert, 
WMtmioster.  whom  the  king  has  raised  to  the  rank  of  a  baron,  as  chief  justice  of  the 
county  of  Meryonnyth  in  North  Wales  with  all  the  powers  pertaining  to 
the  oflice  of  justice  of  North  Wales,  with  the  provision  that  during  his  life 
the  county  shall  be  separate  from  the  jurisdiction  of  the  justice  of  North 
Wales ;  and  grant  to  him  for  life  of  the  office  of  constable  of  the  king's 
castle  of  Hardelagh,  co.  Merioneth,  with  the  power  of  appointing  and 
removing  all  stewards,  sheriffs,  escheators,  coroners  and  other  officers  and 
ministers  of  the  county ;  receiving  20/.  yearly  for  the  office  of  justice  from 
the  fees  of  the  office  of  the  justice  of  North  Wales,  which  with  the  assent 
of  John,  earl  of  Worcester,  justice  of  North  Wales,  the  king  wishes  to  be 
deducted  in  payment  of  his  fees,  and  26/.  13«.  4c/.  yearly  for  himself  for  the 
office  of  constable  of  the  castle  and  4</.  daily  for  each  of  24  soldiers 
under  him  from  the  issues  of  the  county,  and  all  other  profits  pertaining  to 
the  said  offices.  By  K. 

July  1.  Grant  to  the  mayor  and  society  of  the  merchants  of  the  staple  of  the 

Westminster,  town  of  Calais,  in  repayment  of  3,436/.  3s.  Sd.  lent  to  the  king  for  the  defencie 
of  the  realm,  of  3,436/.  3^ .  Sd.  at  the  hands  of  tlie  treasurer  and  chamberlain 
of  the  Exchequer  from  the  second  moiety  of  a  sum  of  31,000/.  from  the  part 
of  an  aid  of  37,000/.  granted  to  the  king  by  the  commons  of  the  realm  in 
Parliament  at  Westmmster,  29  April,  to  be  paid  at  St  Martin  in  winter  next. 

ByK. 

June  16.         Grant  for  life  to  the  king's  servitor  Roland  Simond,  one  of  the  ushers  of 

Westminster,  the  chamber,  of  the  office  of  one  of  the  king's  Serjeants  at  arms  with  the 

accustomed  profits,  with  12r/.  daily  from  the  revenues  of  the  lordship  of 

Fekenbam.  By  p.s. 

Membranb   7. 

May  12.  Impeximus  and  confirmation  to  the  men,  women,  boys  and  girls  born 
Westminster,  within  the  town  of  Couteshale,  co.  Norfolk,  in  the  diocese  of  Norwich,  of  a 
charter  dated  at  Westminster,  21  December,  9  Henry  IV.  {^C/iarter  Boll,  9 
Henri/  IV.  No.  8,]  inspecting  and  confirming  letters  patent  dated  5 
October,  9  Henry  lY.  being  an  exemplification  of  letters  patent  dated  16 
June,  16  Uenry  III.  granting  to  them  divers  liberties. 

For  1  mark  paid  in  the  hanaper. 

May  6.  Mandate  to  all  bailiffs  and  others  to  permit  Simon  Comyn,  chaplain, 

Westminster,  born  in  the  town  of  Coldvngham  in  Scotland,  dwelling  at  Little  Walsyngham 

in  England,  who  has  taken  an  oath  of  fealty,  to  inhabit  the  realm  peaceably 

and  enjoy  his  goods.  By  p.s. 

May  6.  Like  mandate  in  favour  of  John  Gray  alias  Barbour,  born  in  the  city 

Westminster,  of  Edynburgh  in  Scotland,  dwelling  at  Little  Walsyngham,  co.  Norfolk. 

By  p.p. 

May  18.         Like  mandate  In  favour  of  Alexander  Willyamson,  born  in  the  town 
Westminster,  of  Aburdene  in  Scotland,  dwelling  at  Little  Walsyngham,  co.  Norfolk. 

By  p.s. 

June  1.  General  pardon  to  Thomas  Salkclde,  '  gentilman,' for  all  offences  com- 

Westminster,  mitted  by  him  before  26  May  last.  By  p.s. 

June  !?•        The  like  to  Robert  Bollyng  of  Bollyng,  co.  York,  esquire,  alias  'gentil- 

Westminste^.  man,*  attainted  of  high  treason  by  authority  of  Parliament  at  Westminster, 

4  NoTcmber,  1   Edward  IV.  for   all  offences  committed  by  him  before 

1  May  last.  By  p.s. 

July  4«  Mandate  to  all  bailiffs  and  others  to  permit  John  Mycheison,  born  in 

Westmmster.  tlie  town  of  Aburdene  in  Scotland,  dwelling  at  Skulthorpc,  co.  Norfolk,  in 

England^  to  inhabit  the  realm  peaceably  and  enjoy  bis  goods.  By  p.s. 


272  CALENDAR  OF  PATENT  BOLLS, 


1^2.  Membrane  7 — cant, 

June  18.  Bevocation  of  the  protection  with  clause  volumue^  for  one  jear,  latelj 
Westminster,  granted  by  letters  patent  to  John  Skojlhoose  of  Norwich,  merdian^  going 
on  the  kind's  service  in  the  company  of  Walter  Blount,  king's  knight, 
treasurer  of  the  town  and  castle  of  Calais  and  the  marches  there  in  the 
parts  of  Picardj,  for  the  safe-custody,  defence  and  victualUng  of  the  same, 
because  he  delays  at  Westminster  as  appears  by  certificate  of  the  sheriffs 
of  London  and  Middlesex. 

July  3.  The  like  of  like  protection  lately  granted  to  John  Willyamson  of  the 

WeBtmintter.  town  of  Calais,  '  souldeoui-/  alias  John  Williamson  of  London,  '  gentil- 
man,'  to  stay  on  the  king*8  service  in  the  company  of  the  king's  kinsman 
Richard,  earl  of  Warwick  and  Salisbury,  captain  of  the  town  and  caRtle  of 
Calais,  on  the  safe-custody  and  victualling  of  the  same,  because  he  delays 
in  London,  as  appears  by  certificate  of  the  Bheriffs. 

July  11.         The  like  of  like  protection  lately  panted  to  John  Skolehouse  of  Norwich, 
Westminsur.  merchant,  to  stay  in  the  company  of  Walter  Blount,  knight,  as  above. 

July  13.         The  like  of  like  protection  lately  granted  to  John  Walter  late  of  Dedham, 
Westminster,  co.  Essex,  '  dyer,'  going  in  the  company  of  Walter  Blount,  king's  knight, 
as  above,  because  he  delays  in  London,  as  appears  by  certificate  of  the 
sheriffs. 


Mbmbranb  6. 

May  20.  General  pardon  to  James  Ketyng,  prior  of  the  Hospital  of  St.  John  of 
Westminster.  Jerusalem  in  Ireland,  alias  James  Ketyn,  knight,  prior  of  the  hospital 
or  house  and  church  of  Kylmaynan  in  Ireland,  aliat  James  Kettyng, 
knight  of  the  order  of  the  Hospitallers  of  St.  John  of  Jerusalem  in  Ire- 
land, for  all  offences  committed  by  him  before  1  May  last ;  and  grant  to 
him  of  all  his  former  estate,  with  the  restitution  of  the  Hospital  of  St.  John 
of  Jerusalem  in  Ireland  alias  the  priory  of  Kylmaynan,  notwithstanding 
his  attaint  in  Parliament  at  Dublin  in  Ireland  before  Roland  Fitz  Eustace, 
knight,  lord  of  Portelester,  then  deputy  of  the  king's  brother  George,  duke 
of  Clarence,  the  king's  lieutenant  in  Ireland.  By  p.8. 

June  6.  Grant  for  life  to  the  king's  servitor  John  Gogh,  groom  of  the  king's  privy 

Westminster,   larder,  for  his  good  service  to  the  king's  father  and  the  king,  of  the  custody 

of  the  weir  called  ^  Horndewere '  by  the  king's  castle  of  Wyndesore,  with 

the  accustomed  fees.  By  p.s.  [1176.] 

June  10.  Grant  to  Pf^ter  Harryson  of  Kyngeston  on  Hull, '  berebruer,'  in  recom- 
Westminster.  pence  for  cei*t.ain  pipes  of  '  here,'  worth  105/,  20J.,  delivered  to  Edmund 
Ynce  and  Henry  Auger,  esquires,  commissioners  and  victuallers  of  the 
king's  ships  in  the  north,  and  the  roasters,  mariners,  and  other  persons  in 
those  ships  at  Kyngeston  on  Hull,  of  105/.  20d,  (rom  the  firet  and  second 
moieties  of  a  tenth  granted  to  the  king  by  the  clergy  of  the  province  of 
Canterbury  in  convocation  in  the  year  2  Edward  IV.  in  the  parts  of 
Lyudesey  and  Kesteven  in  the  archdeaconry  of  Lincoln,  in  the  diocese  of 
Lincoln,  and  from  the  issues  of  the  county  of  Lincoln.  By  p.s. 

June  17.         Pardon  to  John  Martyn  of  Botheley,  co.  Leicester,  *  husbondman,'  of  his 
Westminster,  outlawry  in  the  county  of  Middlesex  for  not  appearing  before  Henry  VI. 
to  answer  him  touching  a  trespass,  he  having  surrendered  to  the  Marshal- 
sea  prison,  as  John  Markham,  knight,  chief  justice  of  the  King's  Bench, 
has  certified. 

The  like  to  William  Martyn  of  Botheley,  co.  Leicester,  <  husbondman,' 
for  the  same. 

July  1  Grant,  during  pleasure,  to  Walter  Willyng  of  the  farm  of  Inglescome, 

Westminster,  co.  Somerset,  with  all  the  profits  belonging  to  it,  rendering  the  same  as 

other  occupiers.  By  p.s. 


3  EDWARD  IV.— Part  I.  273 


1463.  Membrane  5. 

June  20.  Whereas  on  1  Marchy  2  Edward  IV.  the  king  committed  to  his  sen^ant 
Westminster.  Richard  Felde,  by  mainprise  of  Thomas  Grene  of  London,  '  dyer,'  and 
Walter  Hewet  of  Gloucester, '  dyer,'  the  custody  and  farm  of  a  tenement 
within  his  palace  of  Westminster  which  Thomas  Stok  lately  held  at  farm  of 
the  grant  of  Henry  VI.  the  custody  of  the  lodges  between-  the  round  tower 
witliin  the  palace  and  the  little  conduit  which  John  Gumoy  lately  held 
as  above»  the  custody  of  a  house  within  the  palace  which  John  Prudde 
lately  held  as  above,  the  custody  of  a  house  below  the  Receipt  of  the 
Exchequer  within  the  palace,  46  feet  broad,  with  a  little  house  called  ^  le 
Pycherhous,'  10  feet  long  by  7  feet  broad,  which  John  Randolf,  esquire, 
lately  held  as  above,  and  the  custody  of  a  house  within  the  hall  of 
Westminster  in  a  tower  below  a  house  called  the  council  house  of  queen 
Margaret,  which  the  said  John  Randolf  lately  held  as  above,  for  20  years 
from  Easter  following,  rendering  yearly  for  the  same  20s,  and  20^. 
increment,  16«.  Sd.  and  I6d.  increment,  2ls,  and  I2d.  increment,  135.  M. 
and  20d,  increment,  and  20«.  4d.  and  6d.  increment  respectively ;  the  king 
now  in  lieu  of  the  said  grant  by  letters  patent,  surrendered,  grants  the  said 
tenements,  lodges  and  houses  to  him  for  life,  without  rendering  anything. 

By  p.s. 

March  20.  Licence,  for  40;.  paid  in  the  hanaper,  for  Humphrey  Burghchier,  knight, 
Westminster,  lord  Cromwell,  and  Joan  his  wife,  one  of  the  heirs  of  Ralph  Cromwell, 
knight,  late  lord  Cromwell,  and  Gervase  Clyffcon,  knight,  and  Matilda  his 
wife,  another  of  the  heirs  of  the  said  Ridph,  to  enfeoff  Thomas  Tyrell, 
knight,  Thomas  Billyng,  one  of  the  king's  Serjeants  at  law,  and  Richard 
Illyng worth  of  the  manor  of  Boney,  co.  Nottingham,  held  in  chief,  and  for 
the  latter  to  grant  the  same  to  William  Ayssheby  son  of  Thomas  Ayssheby, 
esquire,  Richard  Yarum,  citizen  and  mercer  of  London,  and  William  Bucley, 
chaplain,  and  for  these  last  to  grant  the  same  to  the  said  Richard  Illy  ngworth 
and  Alice  his  wife  and  his  heirs. 

June  22.  Writ  of  aid,  directed  to  the  king's  lieutenant  in  Ireland  and  his  deputy, 

Westminster.  William  de  la  Barre,  David  Roche,  Edmund  Baret,  the  mayor  of  Corke, 
the  mayor  of  Yoghell,  the  sub-prior  of  Kensale  and  all  other  subjects  of  the 
king  in  Ireland,  for  the  archbishop  of  Ca^hel  and  the  bishops  of  Exeter  and 
Limerick,  whom  pope  Pius  II.  has  appointed  to  enquire  into  the  complaint 
of  Jordan,  bishop  of  Cork,  that  William  Roche,  archdeacon  of  Cloyne, 
schemed  to  disturb  him  in  his  possession  of  the  bishopric  and  by  asserting 
that  he  was  old  and  infirm  procured  the  appointment  of  himself  as  his 
co-ad jutor  and  seized  the  fruits  belonging  to  the  bishopric,  and  that  after- 
wards one  Gerald  de  Geraldinis,  a  clerk  in  the  diocese  of  Cloyne,  formerly 
a  servant  of  the  bishop,  caused  certain  instruments  to  be  forged  by  which 
the  bishop  appointed  him  and  John  Ohedian,  archdeacon  of  Cashel,  as  his 
proctors  for  the  cession  of  his  rule  and  by  means  of  John,  elect  of  Ardagh, 
obtained  a  provision  for  himself.     [FoederaJ] 

July  5.  Grant  to  Elizabeth  late  the  wife  of  William    Sidney,  esquire,  of  the 

Westminster*  county  of  Surrey,  of  the  custody  of  all  manors  and  lands  late  of  the  said 

William,  tenant  in  chief,  during  the  minority  of  Elizabeth  and  Anne  his 

daughters   and  heirs,  with  their  marriages,  finding  them  a   competent 

sustenance,  without  rendering  anything  to  the  king.  By  p.8. 

July  11.        Presentation  of  Morgan  ap  David,  chaplain,  to  the  parish  church  of 
Westminster.  Llannoryn,  in  the  diocese  of  St.  Asaph,  void  by  the  death  of  John  Pennall. 
The  letters  are  directed  to  Th.  archbishop  of  Canterbur}*. 

July  11.         Grant  to  John,  the  abbot,  and  the  convent  of  St.  Mary  and  St.  Rumonus, 

Westminster.  Tavystoke,  co.  Devon,  which  is    of  the  king's  patronage,  of  the  alien 

priory  of  Cowyk,  co.  Devon,  with  all  pensions,  portions,  cells,  manors, 

lands,  knights'  fees,  coui*ts  leet,  views  of  frank  pledge,  advowsons  and  other 

profits,  and  all  issues  of  the  same  from  Easter  hist.  By  p.s. 

86914.  s 


274  CALENDAR  OF  PATENT  BOLLS. 


1 163.  Membrane  5—eoni. 

March  31.        Appointment,  during  pleasure,  of  George  Darell,  esquire,  as  master  of  the 

Westmintter.  hunt  of  the  king's  chiue  of  Aldeboume,  co.  Wilis,  receiving  yearly  for  his 

fee  a  buck  in  time  of  grease  (jpinguedims)  and  a  doe  in  time  of  winter 

(tfermisonis)  with  all  other  due  profits.  By  p.s. 

MSMBRANS  4. 

July  12.         Exemplification,  at  the  request  of  the  under-mentioned  William  Hoddys, 
Wertminster.  of  the  following : — 

1.  A  petition  in  Chancery  of  William  Hannes  son  and  heir  of  Thomas 

Hannes  and  Isabel  his  wife,  daughter  and  heir  of  John  Sturmy  late 
of  Wachennesfeld,  co.  Berks,  'gentilman,'  that  whereas  the  said 
Thomas  and  Isabel  were  seised  as  in  her  right  of  certain  lands  and 
tenements  in  Wachennesfeld,  co.  Berks,  and  Fresshedon,  Esthorp 
and  Merston,  co.  Wilts,  and  by  fine  in  the  king^s  court  at  West- 
minster at  Easter,  31  Henry  VI.  acknowledged  £e  same  to  be  the 
right  of  Thomas  Besiles  and  the  latter  granted  the  same  again  to 
them  and  the  heirs  of  their  bodies,  and  afterwards  the  said  Thomas 
died,  and  lately  divers  persons  untruly  pretended  that  the  said  John 
Sturmy  should  have  enfeoffed  William  Hoddys  of  Burton,  co.  Berks, 
of  the  same  many  years  before  the  said  fine  and  desired  the  latter  to 
make  an  estate  to  the  said  Isabel  and  one  John  Cobley,  now  her 
husband,  to  exclude  the  said  fine,  a  writ  sub  pena  should  be  directed 
to  the  said  William  Hoddys  to  appear  before  the  king  in  Chancery. 
English, 

2.  A  writ  dated  1  July,  3  Edward  IV,  directing  the  said  William  Hoddys 

to  appear  in  Chancery  at  the  quinzaine  of  Midsummer,  under  a  penal^ 
of  100/. 

3.  The  answer  of  the  latter,  to  the  effect  that  John  Cobley  came  to  him 

and  said  that  he  was  enfeoffed  of  the  said  lands  of  the  gift  of  the 
said  John  Sturmy  and  desired  him  to  make  estate  thereof  to  himself 
and  the  said  Isabel  his  wife,  and  he  said  that  he  knew  nothing  of  it 
but  at  their  I'equest  ensealed  to  them  a  deed,  and  afterwards  he  heard 
of  the  said  fine  and  knew  that  their  intent  was  the  exclusion  of  the 
said  William  Hannes  and  repented  of  the  sealing  of  the  deed,  ^  and 
Gkxi  knowyth  and  I  had  knowyn  his  entent  I  wold  not  have  seeld  to 
them  any  dede  therof  thou  he  wold  have  yeve  me  an  c/.  of  money 
howebe  it  hit  may  turne  to  them  noon  avanta|^.'    English, 

4.  A  dismissal  as  follows  inserted  on  the  dorse  of  the  writ : — 

Infrascriptus  Wtllelmus  Hoddys  dimissus  est  a  curia  quietus  sine 
die  per  consilium  curie  ex  assensu  partium, 

June  24.         Inspeximus  and  confirmation  to  the  mayor  and  barons  of  the  town  of 

Weatmingtcr.  Rye  of  letters  patent  dated  1  August,  27  Henry  VI.  incorporating  the  town 

and  hundred  of  Tenterden  and  annexing  them  to  the  said  town  of  Bye  apart 

from  the  county  of  Kent.  For  40*.  paid  in  the  hanaper. 

March  31.        Grant  for  life  to  George  Darell,  esquire,  of  the  stewardship  of  Marlburgh 

Westminster,  and  Vyse,  co.  Wilts,  in  the  king's  hands  by  the  death  of  Thomas  Wyusselowe, 

esquire,  with  the  accustomed  fees.  By  p.B. 

Membrane  3. 

July  4.  Grant  for  life  to  the  king's  servant  Edmund  Glase,  from  20  July, 

Westminster.  1  Edward  IV,  of  the  custody  of  the  king's  park  called  *  le  Newe  Pare  *  of 
Shene,  co.  Surrey,  and  2d,  daily  from  the  issues  of  the  king's  lordship  of 
Hamme,  co.  Surrey,  with  all  other  commodities  pertaining  to  the  custody, 
and  2d.  daily  from  the  issues  of  the  king's  lordships  a£  Hamme  and 
Petresham,  co.  Surrey,  to  find  sufficient  repair  in  the  palings  and  hedges  of 


3  EDWARD  IV.— Part  T.  275 


1463,  Membrane  3 — cont. 

the  parky  and  also  the  office  of  the  king's  gardiner  of  Shene,  receiving  the 
accQStomed  fees  from  the  issues  of  the  king's  lordships  of  Shene,  Petresham 
and  Harame ;  in  lieu  of  a  like  grant  to  him  by  letters  patent  dated  20  July, 
1  Edward  IV,  surrendered  because  invalid.  By  p.s. 

Mandate  to  the  farmers,  receivers  or  other  occupiers  of  the  lordships  of 
Shene,  Petresham  and  Hamme  to  pay  him  the  said  8  J.  daily  (sic)  and 
the  arrears  of  the  same. 

Mandate  to  the  same  to  pay  the  said  2d,  and  2d,  as  above. 

July  1.  Grant  to  the  mayor,  bailiffs  and  commonalty  of  the  city  of  Exeter  of  all 

Westminster,  stolen  goods  (manuapera)  taken  with  any  person  within  the  junsdiction  of 
the  city  and  disavowed  by  him,  chattels  of  felons,  fugitives  and  outlaws, 
fines  for  the  escapes  of  felons,  confiscated  chattels  of  all  residents  within  the 
said  jurisdiction,  and  all  fines  and  amercements  before  the  treasurer  and 
barons  of  the  Exchequer,  the  steward  and  marshal  and  clerk  of  the  market 
of  the  king's  household,  and  all  justices,  and  that  they  may  have  a  fair 
yearly  at  Exeter  on  the  vigil  of  St.  Mary  Magdalen  and  the  two  following 
days,  so  long  as  it  be  not  to  the  prejudice  of  neighbouring  fairs ;  provided 
that  they  have  no  liberty,  franchise  or  jurisdiction  within  the  fee  of  the 
bishop  of  the  city^  commonly  called  the  fee  uf  St.  Stephen,  the  cathedral  of 
St.  Peter,  Exeter,  and  the  cemetery  and  close  of  the  same,  the  palace  of 
the  bishop  and  all  other  places  without  the  jurisdiction  of  the  city. 

By  p.s. 

March  30.       Mandate  to  the  customers  of  the  king's  petty  custom  in  the  port  of 
Westminster.  London  to  pay  40/.  yearly  from  Michaelmas  last  from  the  said  petty  custom 
to  Mary  de  Bedford,  lady  de  la  Sparre,  for  her  life. 

Vacated  because  elsewhere  an  the  Close  Roll  in  the  same  year. 

Sept.  19.         Grant  to  the  abbot  and  convent  of  Peterborough  of  the  custody  of  the 
Westminster,   abbey  and  all  its  priories,  cells,  lordships,  manors,  lands  and  other  posses- 
sions during  voidance,  with  full  administration  of  the  same, '  rendering 
40/.  at  the  Exchequer  for  each  voidance.  By  p.s. 

Aug.  24.        Presentation  of  Thomas  Westhorp,  one  of  the  masters  of  Chancery,  to 
Westminster,  the  parish  church  of    Enfeid,  void  by  the  death   of  Humphrey  Smyth 
alias  Bamevile.     The  letters  are  directed  to  J.  bishop  of  Coventry  and 
Lichfield. 

Sept.  29.         Mandate  to  all  bailifb  and  others  to  permit  John  Qwhytburn,  born  in 

Westminster,  the  town  of  Gedeworth  in  Scotland,  dwelling  at  Stowebardolf,  co.  Norfolk, 

in  England,  who  has  taken  an  oath  of  fealty,  to  inhabit  the  realm  peaceably 

and  enjoy  his  goods.  By  p.s. 

MbMBRANSS  2  AND   1. 

March  5.  Notification  that  in  the  year  1460  before  the  lords  of  the  council  of 
Westminster*  Henry  VI.  late  claiming  to  be  king,  a  case  remained  undecided  concern- 
ing the  despoiling  of  certain  wools  of  Richard  Heyron  some  time  of 
the  city  of  London,  merchant  of  the  staple  of  the  town  of  Calais,  and 
certain  injuries  inflicted  on  him  by  John  Proute,  John  Walden,  John 
Tate,  and  other  merchants  of  the  staple.  The  following  documents 
(English)  are  recited : — 

1.  A  petition  of  the  said  Richard  Heyron  that,  whereas  he  had  great 
acquaintance  with  divers  merchant  strangers  repairing  to  Calais 
and  shipped  certain  wools  in  the  port  of  London,  Lawfully  customed 
and  coketted,  and  sent  them  to  Calais  in  the  summer  last  past  and 
Bold  parcel  of  them  and  was  in  way  of  sale  of  the  residue,  and  one 
John  Proute  on  13  October  last,  then  and  yet  lieutenant  of  John 
Thriske,  mayor  of  the  staple,  having  full  power  within  the  staple 
m  his  absence,  by  colour  of  his  office  and  with  the  aFsent  of  the 

s  2 


276  CALENDAR  OF  PATENT  ROLLS. 


1463.  Membranes  2  and  1 — cant. 

merchants  of  the  staple  then  at  Calais  and  the  factors  of  other  mer- 
chants of  the  staple  restrained  the  sale  and  utterance  of  the  residue  of 
the  wools^  amounting  to  the  value  of  13,000  marks,  and  commanded 
all  *  hroucours,'  *  weyers,'  *  potters,'  *  tresourers,'  *  clerkys '  and  other 
officers  of  the  staple  not  to  meddle  with  the  same,  and  he  himself 
endures  in  prison  and  may  not  be  at  his  large,  the  said  mayor  and 
merchants  should  be  compelled  to  appear  before  their  lordships  and 
make  answer,  as  the  said  unlawful  restraint  was  made  notwithstanding 
the  surety  made  in  the  summer  last  that  there  should  be  no  restraint 
made  of  any  sale  of  wools  for  three  years  following. 

2.  The  answer  of  the  said  John  Walden  and  John  Tate  that  the  matter- 

in  the  said  bill  was  not  sufficient  and  that  they  had  not  procured, 
steered  or  executed  any  restraint  of  the  said  wools. 

3.  Another  petition  of  the  said  Richard  as  above,  adding  that  the  restraint 

was  made  by  the  commandment  and  assent  of  the  said  mayor,  John 
Walden,  John  Tate,  Roger  Knyght  of  Lincoln,  William  Holte  of 
London,  Richard  Cely  of  the  same  and  William  Broun  of  Stamford, 
merchants  of  the  staple,  and  that  the  residue  was  260  sarplars  of 
*  Cottiswold  wolle '  and  1 5  sarplars  of  *  Clyfte  wolle.' 

4.  Another  answer  of  the  said  John  Walden  and  Johc  Tate,  denying 

that  they  are  in  any  way  guilty. 

5.  A  replication  of  the  said  Richard,  denying  this. 

The  king  signifies  that  he  and  the  great  council  are  competent  judges 
and  are  prepared  to  do  justice  in  this  matter.  By  p.s. 

Mbmbrane  1 — cotU. 

July  2.  Inspeximus  and  confirmation  to  John  Stokes  and  Alice  his  wife,  the 

Westminstep.  present  tenants  of  the  manor  of  BigenhuU  in  Burcestre,  of  a  charter  dated 
Westminster,  20  October,  1  Richard  II,  granting  to  John  de  Worthe, 
knight,  that  he  and  his  heirs  shall  have  a  market  weekly  on  Monday  and 
a  fair  yearly  for  three  days  at  St.  James  the  Apostle  at  the  said  manor. 
[Charter  Roll,  1  Richard  IL  No.  26.]       For  6j.  8d.  paid  in  the  hanaper. 

Membranes  24:d,  to  2ld. 

Commissions  of  the  peace  in  various  counties  pursuant  to  the  statutes 
and  ordinances  of  Winchester,  Northampton,  Westminster  and  Cambridge. 
[See  Appendix.] 

Membrane  I9d, 

March  16.        Commission  to  Alvred  Comebourgh,  esquire^  Thomds  Lymbury   and 
Westmiiiflter.  ^Villiam  Derlyng  to  enquire  touching  all  wards,  marriages,  reliefs,  escheats 
and  forfeitures  belonging  to  the  king  in  the  county  of  Cornwall  and  con- 
cealed from  him  or  from  the  late  king,  and  to  certify  thereon  in  Chancery 
on  the  morrow  of  the  Ascension  next. 

March  8.  Commission  to  the  justices  of  the  peace  in  the  county  of  Kent,  with  the 
Westminster,  exception  of  the  prelates  mentioned  in  their  commissions,  and  the  sheriff  of 
the  county  to  assess  the  subsidy  granted  by  the  commons  of  the  realm  in  the 
last  Parliament  held  at  Redyng,  viz.  I6d.  from  each  person  not  born  within 
the  TOAlm  or  the  lands  of  Ireland  aud  Wales,  excepting  the  people  born 
within  the  king's  duchies  of  Aquitaine,  Gascony  and  Normandy  under  his 
obedience,  holding  a  lodging  within  the  realm  ;  6d,  from  every  such  person 
not  holding  a  lodging  ;  40*.  from  each  person  called  *  Venician,*  *  Ester- 
lynge,' *  Itulyan,'  '  Januay,' *  Florentyne.'  'Milener,'  *  Lucan,'  *  Cateloner,' 
*  Albertyno,'  •  Lumbard,'  '  Hansard,'  <  Prucer,'  being  merchants,  *  brogera ' 


3  EDWARD  IV.— Part  I.  211 


1463.  Membrane  19rf — cont. 

or  factors  and  their  attorneys,  not  denizen  within  the  realm,  and  all  other 
merchant  strangers,  holding  a  lodging  within  the  realm ;  2Qs.  from  every 
sach  person  staying  within  the  realm  for  the  space  of  six  weeks  and  not 
holding  a  lodging ;  and  10  marks  from  every  sach  person  denizen  within  the 
realm;  to  he  paid  yearly,  at  Easter  and  Michaelmas  in  equal  portions. 
If  any  of  the  said  persons  shall  depart  from  the  realm  before  paying 
the  said  205.  the  persons  with  whom  he  was  residing  shall  be  charged 
with  the  same  ;  but  the  collectors  shall  have  an  allowance  for  what 
cannot  be  levied,  and  the  said  merchants,  '  brogers,'  factors  and  attorneys 
and  foreignei*s  made  denizen  shall  not  be  charged  with  the  said  subsidies 
of  40^.,  1 6c/.  or  6cf.  The  commissioners  are  to  send  their  inquisitions  to 
the  treasurer  and  barons  of  the  Exchequer  on  the  morrow  of  Michaelmas 
next  and  afterwards  on  the  morrow  of  Michaelmas  and  the  quinzaine  of 
Easter ;  and  the  sherifiT  is  to  levy  the  sums  for  the  feasts  of  Easter  and 
Michaelmas  in  the  first  and  second  years  of  the  reign  and  deliver  them  at 
the  receipt  of  the  Exchequer  at  the  morrow  of  Michaelmas  next,  and  to  levy 
all  such  sums  in  future  and  deliver  them  at  the  receipt  of  the  Exchequer  at 
the  said  dat(5S. 

The  like  to  the  justices  of  the  peace  and  the  sheriffs  in  all  the  counties  of 
England. 

The  like  to  the  justices  of  the  peace  and  the  sheriffs  in  the  city  of 
London. 

The  like  to  the  justices  of  the  peace  and  the  sheriffs  in  the  following  cities 
and  towns : — 

The  city  of  York. 

The  city  of  Norwich. 

The  city  of  Lincoln. 

The  city  of  Coventry. 

The  city  of  Canterbury. 

The  town  of  Bristol. 

The  town  of  Newcastle  on  Tyne. 

The  town  of  Kyngeston  on  Hull. 

The  town  of  Southampton. 

The  town  of  Notyngham. 

The  like  to  the  constable  of  Dover  Castle  and  warden  of  the  Cinque  Ports 
or  his  lieutenant  in  the  said  ports. 

Mandate  to  the  chancellor  in  the  county  palatine  ol  Lancaster  to  issue  a 
like  commission  to  the  justices  of  the  peace  and  the  sheriff  in  the  said 
county. 

Membrane  \%d. 

March  13.        Commission  to  John  Melton,  knight,  Hugh  Hastynge,  knight,  Henry 
Westminster.  Suthehill,  John  Fitzwilliam,  Balph  Reresby  and  John  Fereby  to  enquire  into 

all  insurrections,  rebellions  and  other  offences  committed  within  the  West 

Biding  of  the  county  of  York. 

March  12.  Commission  to  James  Strangwaysshc,  knight,  Thomas  Witham,  chan- 
WestmioBtcr.  cellor  of  the  Exchequer,  Thomas  Mouutford,  esquire,  John  Laton,  esquire, 
and  Ralph  Assheton,  esquire,  to  enquire  by  oath  of  good  men  of  the  county 
of  York  whether  Joan  Faucombregge,  late  countess  of  Kent,  is  an  idiot  and 
incapable  of  the  government  of  herself  and  her  possessions,  whether  she  has 
alienated  any  of  her  lands,  and  who  is  her  next  heir. 

March  22.       Commission  to  John  Howard,  Thomas  Waldegrave,  William  Pyrton  and 

Westminster.  Laurence  Baynford,  knights,  to  array  and  try  all  men-at-arms  and  other 

able-bodied  men  and  hobelers  and  archers  within  the  county  of  Essex  and  to 

take  them  in  thouEands,  hundreds  and  twenties  ns  may  be  convenient  to  the 


278  CALENDAR  OP  PATENT  BOLLS. 


1.^3.  Membrane  IS^f— «ofii. 

sea  coast  and  other  places  within  the  ooantj  and  especially  to  the  towns  of 
Herewyche  and  Doverconrte  for  the  resistance  of  the  king's  enenues,  to  take 
master  of  them  from  time  to  time^  to  set  op  the  signs  called  *  hekyns,'  and 
to  set  watches. 

April  L  Commission  to  Robert  Hareoourt,  knight,  Richard  Harecoort  and  Thomas 

WeetminBter.   Walrond  to  arrest  and  imprison  one  Edward  Bray  and  others,  who  wander 
about  making  confederacies  in  divers  parts  of  the  county  of  Berks. 

MSMBRANB  17  d, 

March  30.  Commission,  during  pleasure,  to  John  Wode,  John  Bassat,  John  Wroth, 
WeRtminster.  John  Danyell,  Humphrey  Porster,  John  Hoord,  John  Newman,  Thomas 
Babam,  John  (Jpton  and  William  Potyer  to  enquire  by  oath  of  good  men  of 
the  counties  of  Kent,  Hertford,  Essex,  Surrey,  Middlesex,  Berks, 
Buckingham,  Oxford  and  Gloucester  into  the  capture  of  swans  and 
cygnets  on  the  river  Thames  and  its  tributaries  from  Cirencestre  to  its 
mouth  by  hooks,  nets,  '  lymestrynges '  and  other  engines  and  the  taking  of 
swans'- eggs,  and  to  arrest  and  imprison  the  offenders. 

Membrane  16<f. 

May  6.  Appointment  of  Matthew  Hay  and  Thomas  Ins  as  justices  to  deliver 

Westminster,  the  gaol  of  the  king's  castle  of  Colcestre  of  Richard  Curteys,  a  prisoner 
iu  it. 

Membrane  lid. 

May  16.         Commission    to    Robert  Harecourt,    knight,   Oliver  Dudley,    esquire, 
Westminster.  William  Harecourt,  esquire,  John  Langeston,  esquire,  Robert  HaUey,  Gilbert 
Lewes  and  Thomas  Spicer  to  arrest  Humphrey  Willyngham  and  bring  him 
before  the  king  to  answer  for  divers  murders  and  felonies. 

May  26.  Commission  to  Thomas  Clemens,  Walter  Code,  William  Hoorde,  John 
Westminster.  Bryce,  Henry  Davy,  William  Appowell  and  the  sheriffs  of  Somerset  and 
Cornwall  to  arrest  Thomas  Bodulgate,  esquire,  John  Trevylian,  esquire, 
John  Michell,  John  Gravell,  Thomas  Norton,  Henry  Langman,  German 
John,  Nicholas  Porloff,  John  Morys  ami  Maurice  Cruce  and  bring  them 
before  the  king  in  Chancery. 

Membrane  13J. 

April  28.  Commission  to  Robert  Harecourt,  knight,  Richard  Quatermayns,  Edmund 
Westminster.  Rede,  Richard  Croft  the  younger,  William  Marmyon,  Richard  Danvers, 
Thomas  Croft  and  the  sheriff  of  Oxford  to  enquire  into  the  breaches  in 
that  county  of  the  statute  of  13  Richard  II,  enacting  that  no  man  shall  buy 
or  sell  wools  at  a  higher  weight  {alHus  pretium)  than  14  pounds  for  the 
stone  under  penalty  of  losing  double  to  the  injured  party  and  making 
fine  to  the  king  according  to  the  quantity,  that  no  denizen  or  alien  shall 
make  any  residue  of  wools  except  *•  codde,'  '  card '  and  '  villeyn,'  and  that  no 
merchant  or  other  man  shall  buy  wools  by  these  words  ^  gode  pakkyng '  or 
like  words  under  penalty  that  Me  broggour'  shall  have  half  a  year's 
imprisonment  and  the  buyer  make  fine  to  the  king  according  to  the  quantity 
and  the  injured  party  have  double  damages ;  the  statute  of  14  Richard  II, 
enacting  that  no  denizen  in  England  shall  buy  wools  except  from  the 
possessors  of  the  sheep  except  in  the  staple,  or  regrate  wools  or  other 
merchandise  of  the  staple  under  penalty  of  forfeiture  of  their  value  and 
that  no  Englishman  shall  buy  wool  from  any  one  except  for  himself  and 
for  his  own  use  to  take  to  the  staple  or  to  make  cloth ;  and  the  statute  of 
14  Henry  VI.  enacting  that  if  any  person  place  wools  or  wool-fells  or  any 


3  EDWARD  IV.— Pa«t  I.  279 


1463.  Meti^ane  IM — eoni. 

other  merchandise  of  the  staple  in  any  anspected  place  near  the  sea-ooast, 
-withoot  making  an  indenture  with  the  major^  hailiff  or  constable  of  the 
town  in  which  they  shall  be,  the  same  shall  be  forfeited  and  the  king  shall 
have  one  moiety  and  the  lord  of  the  town  the  other  moiety* 

June  8.  Commission  of  oyer  and  terminer  to  the  king's  kinsmen  Richard,  earl  of 

Westmintter.  Warwick,  William,  earl  of  Arundel,  John,  earl  of  Worcester,  and  Henry, 
earl  of  Essex,  and  Humphrey  Bourghchier  of  Cromwell,  knight,  Richard 
Wydevile  of  Ryverp,  knight,  William  Has^oges  of  Hastynges,  knight, 
John  Wenlok  of  Wenlok,  knight,  Thomas  Coke,  mayor  of  London,  John 
Markham,  knight,  Robert  Danby,  knight,  Richard  lUyngworth,  William 
Yelverton,  knight,  Richard  Byngham,  Nicholas  Ayssheton,  Peter  Ardern, 
knight,  Robert  Danvers,  Walter  Moyle,  John  Nedeham,  Richard  Chok 
and  Thomas  Ursewyk,  touching  divers  offences  committed  within  the  city 
and  liberty  of  London  and  the  county  of  Middlesex.  By  K. 

Mbmbrans  I2d. 

May  27.  Commission  to  John  Clerk,  Ridiard  Drayton,  Thomas  Coburley,  Roger 

Westminster.  Appulton  and  the  sheriff  of  Kent  to  enquire  what  lands  and  tenements 
Richard,  late  duke  of  York,  held  in  the  said  county  on  the  day  of  his 
death. 

Mbmbranb  lid. 

May  20.         Commission  of  array  in  the  county  of  Southampton.     (See  Appendix.) 
Westminfter. 

June  5.  Commission  to  John  Convers,  one  of  the  king's  Serjeants  at  arms,  to  seize 

Westmintter.  all  ships  and  vessels  prepared  to  sail  to  foreign  parts  with  Tictuals  and  gear 

in  all  ports  in  the  counties  of  Norfolk  and  Suffolk  and  to  certify  thereon  to 

the  king  in  council,  as  it  is  manifest  that  the  king's  enemies  are  preparing 

to  invade  the  realm. 

June  10.  Commission  to  John  Wykeham,  mayor  of  Bristol,  William  Canynges, 
Westminster.  Robert  Straunge,  Nicholas  Suthcotes,  one  of  the  king's  serjeant«  at  arms, 
and  the  sheriff  and  bailiffs  of  the  town  to  arrest  John  de  Musqnitz,  merchant 
of  Spain,  and  bring  him  before  the  king  in  Chancery  and  to  seize  a  ship 
cMed  la  Marie  ofTpusce  or  of  Biscay  in  Spain  of  which  he  is  owner 
and  master  in  the  port  of  the  town  with  its  goods,  merchandise  and  gear. 

Mbmbranb  9d» 

April  7*         Commission  to  the  mayor  of  York,  brother  John  Langstrother,  knight, 
Westminfter.  James  Strangways,  knight,   Geoffrey  Middelton  and  Robert  Malorry  to 
arrest  Humphrey  Nevyll  and  bring  him  before  the  king  in  council. 

Oct.  23.        Appointment  of  John  Clerk,  Nicholas  Sibile,  John  Rowe,  William  Keue, 

Westminster.  John  Brymston  and  Roger  Brent  as  justices  to  deliver  the  gaol  of  Maydeston 

of  William  Sherreve  alias  Shreve  alias  Shry  ve  late  of  Haddelowe,  co.  Kent, 

'  husbondman,'  Thomas  Maior  late  of  Tunbrigge»  co.  Kent,  *  husbondman,' 

John  Neweman  late  of  Dertford  and  John  Gtilmyn  late  of  Seele,  co.  Kent, 

*  husbondman,'  prisoners  there. 

Mbmbranb  Sd. 

June  20.         Commission  to  Roger  Grandorge,  esquire,  George  Danyell,    esquire, 
Westminster.   Robert  Oldham,  John  Bates  and  William  Davy  to  arrest  Thomss  Keue, 

*  yoman,'  and  William  Keue,  *  yoman,'  and  bring  them  before  the  king. 


280  CALENDAB  OF  PATENT  ROLLS. 


1463#  Membrane  Sd — cont, 

Jane  7.  Commission  de  wcUliis  ei  fossatis  to  Boger  Leukenore,  knight,  William 

Westmiiuter.  Sydney,  John  Erneley,  Thomas  Taweke,  Humphrey  Hewester  and  John 
Goryng  by  the  coast  of  the  sea  and  the  marsh  from  Colworth  to  the  sea 
in  the  county  of  Sussex. 

July  12.         The  like  to  Bichard  Chokke,  Theobald  Gorges,  knight,  Walter  Bodeney, 

Westminster,   knight,  John  Fitz  James  the  elder  and  Bol^rt  Stowell,  esquire,  by  the 

coast  of  the  sea  and  the  marsh  from  Ryngwell  to  Haylake  Yoo  and  from 

thence  to  Shestrygge  Yoo  and  from  thence  to  Colestoke  and  from  thence 

to  '  le  Blakstake  in  tiie  see '  in  the  county  of  Somerset. 


Membrane  6d, 

May  27.  Commission  to  Thomas  Bede,  Bichard  Higham  and  John  Honewod  to 
Wostmioster.  seize  all  suspected  persons,  foreign  or  denizen,  coming  to  the  town  of 
Hastyngez  and  the  adjacent  parts  and  to  examine  them  touching  the  cause 
of  their  advent,  stay  and  perambulation  and  arrest  and  imprison  such  as 
they  may  find  to  be  spies  or  bearers  and  inventors  of  rumours  and  to 
certify  thereon  to  the  king  In  council,  as  the  king  understands  that  certain 
persons,  both  Englishmen  and  French,  Scots  and  other  foreigners,  come  to 
divers  parts  of  the  county  of  Sussex  doing  no  work  or  traffic  but  spying  the 
rule  and  governance  of  the  county  and  spreading  rumours. 

June  2.  Commission  to  the  king's  kinsmen,  Bichard,  earl  of  Warwick,  warden  of 

Westminster,  the  west  march  of  England  towards  Scotland,  and  John  Neville  of  Montagu, 
knight,  warden  of  the  east  march,  Balph  de  Graystok,  knight,  John 
Lescrop,  knight»  Bichard  Musgrave,  knight,  William  Parre,  knight^ 
Launcelet  Thirlkeld,  knight,  Bichard  Musgrave  the  younger,  esquire, 
Thomas  Wharton,  Thomas  Wercop  and  the  sheriff  of  Westmoreland,  to 
array  and  take  muster  of  all  the  able-bodied  men  in  the  county  for  defence 
against  Henry  VI.  and  his  adherents.     [Fcedera.'] 

June  23.         Commission  to  Walter  Devereux,    knight,   lord   of   Ferrers,    William 

Westminster.  Herbert,  knight,  lord  of  Herbert,  Bichard   Herbert,  knight,    and    John 

Mylewatur  and  Traharn  ap  Jevan  ap  Muric,  esquires,  to  receive  and  admit 

into  the  king's  obedience  and  allegiance  certain  rebels  in  Wales,  promising 

letters  of  pardon  under  the  great  seal.  By  K. 

Aug.  9.  Commission  to  John  Bradwall  and  John  Carlill  to  take  carpenters  called 

Westminster.  *  whelers '  and  *  cartwrightes '  and  other  carpenters,  stone-cutters,  smiths, 
plumbers  and  other  workmen  for  the  works  of  the  king's  ordnance,  and  also 
bombards,  cannons,  *  culveryns,'  *  fowelers,'  *  sarpentynes '  and  other 
cannons,  and  powders,  sulphur,  saltpetre,  stones,  iron,  lead,  timber  and  other 
equipment  for  the  same,  crossbows  and  bolts  for  them,  bows,  arrows, 
*  bowestringes,' '  langdebeves,'  lances, '  gloves '  and  hammers  and  all  other 
necessaries  for  the  ordnance  and  carriage  for  the  same  and  horses  called 
'  hakeneys.' 

Membrane  5d,    ' 

July  1.  Commission  to  the  sheriff  of  Derby  to  arrest  John  Pole  of  Hartyngton, 

Westminster,  esquire,  Edmund  Hartyngton,  John  Downham,  late  abbot  of  the  monastery 
of  Bcauchief,  John  Mundevile  and  Bobert  Bowloud,  late  canons  of  the 
monastery,  Bobert  Cowle,  Bichard  Cowle,  Ralph  WoUey,  Thomas  WoUey, 
John  Atkynson,  Thomas  Corbrig,  Nicholas  Corbrig,  John  Dyconson, 
Bobert  Dyconson,  John  Wodeham,  Thomas  Wodhous,  Robert  Aleyn, 
Thomas  Gaytclyff,  Thomas  Dyngley  and  John  Ardern  and  bring  them 
before  the  king  in  council  within  twelve  days  after  arrest,  and  if  they  cannot 
be  arrested  without  inconvenience  to  require  assistance  from  knights, 
osqnircsj  an(l  other  gontlemen  of  the  county.  By  K, 


3  EDWARD  IV.— Pabt  1.  281 


1463.  Membrane  5d — c(mt, 

July  14.         Commission  to  Bichard  Jacomjn  to  take  wheat,  beans,  peas,  meat,  fish, 

WefltmioRter.  wine,  wort,  ale  and  other  victuals  for  the  victualling  of  a  ship  called  Adam 

GoodeUe  Ship^  going  to  sea  for  the  resistance  of  the  king's  enemies,  and  cables, 

cords,  bows,  arrows,  lances,  cannons  and  powder,  iron  and  timber  for  the 

same  and  mariners  and  smiths,  carpenters  and  other  workmen. 

The  like  to  Thomas  Philipp  for  a  ship  called  le  Marie  Clyiffe, 

The  like  to  Richard  Symond  for  a  ship  called  le  Grrace  Dieu, 

Aug.  28.         Commission  of  oyer  and  terminer  to  the  king's  kinsman  John,  earl  of 

Westminster.  Worcester,  William   Yelverton,   knight,   Peter  Ardem,  knight,   William 

Seyntgorge,  knight,  John  Cheyny,  John  Ansty,  William  Alyngton  and 

Thomas   Lokton  touching  divers  offences  committed  in  the  county  of 

Cambridge.  By  K.  by  word  of  mouth. 

Aug.  27.         The  like  to  the  kind's  kinsman,  Richard,  earl  of  Warwick,  constable  of 

Westminster.   Dover  Castle  and  warden  of  the  Cinque  Ports,  John  Fogge,  knight,  John 

Scotte,  knight,  Walter  Moyle,  John  Copledyk,  mayor  of  Sandwich,  and 

Thomas  Marchall  touching  certain  treasons  and  felonies  committed  within 

the  town,  liberty  and  port  of  Sandwich.  By  K. 

Sept.  29.         The  like  to  the  king's  kinsman,  Richard,  earl  of  Warwick,  Ralph  Gray- 
Westminster,  stok,    knight,  Robert  Danby,  knight,  Thomas  Burgh,  knight,    Robert 
Constable  of  Flanburgh,  knight,  Henry  Sotehyll,  William  Eland  and  John 
Holme  touching  divers  offences  committed  within  the  town,  suburbs  and 
liberty  of  Beverley.  By  K. 

July  3.  Commission  to    Richard  Forster,  John  Hennyngburgh,  esquire,  Simon 

Westminster.  Burton  and  William  Husye  to  enquire  into  the  taking  of  the  king's  game 
(deductus)  of  swans  and  cygnets  with  hooks,  nets,  limed  strings  and  other 
engines  and  the  taking  of  swans'  eggs  within  the  marsh  of  Wittdysmere 
and  all  other  marshes  and  rivers  within  the  counties  of  Lincoln,  Northampton, 
Huntingdon  and  Cambridge,  and  to  arrest  and  imprison  the  offenders. 


282 


3  EDWARD  IV.— Pabt  II. 


1463,  Mbmbranb  20.. 

July  5.  Grant  for  life  to  the  king's  servitors  John  Baker,  yeoman  of  the  king's 

Westminster,  privy  larder,  and  William  Claybroke,  yeoman  of  the  king's  common  larder, 
of  the  office  of  the  water-bailiwick  and  scrutiny  of  nets,  ^  dragges '  and 
*  chitelles,'  with  the  profit  {gaudeaturd)  of  sewers  and  passages  of  vessels 
called  '  keels '  and  ail  other  skifis,  from  a  place  called  *•  Wosbyshe '  to  the 
town  of  Saint  Ives  in  the  counties  of  Huntingdon  and  Cambridge,  with  the 
accustomed  fees  from  the  issues  of  the  said  water-bailiwick.  By  K. 

July  6.  Pardon  to  William  Johnson  of  Wrauby,  co.  Lincoln,  *  laborer,*  for  all 

Westminster,  treasons  and  felonies  committed  by  him.  By  K. 

July  2.  Grant  for  life  to  John  Hert  of  10  marks  yearly  from  30  September  last 

Westminster,  from  the  issues  of  the  counties  of  Bedford  and  Buckingham,  in  lieu  of  a 

like  grant  to  him  from  the  issues  of  the  manor  of  Cottesmore,  co.  Butland, 

by  letters  patent  dated  30  September,  surrendered.  By  p.s. 

July  1.  Grant  for  life  to  John   Alday  of  10/.  yearly  from  Michaelmas  last  from 

Westminster,  the  fee  farm  of  Queenhithe  {Ripe  Regine)^  London,  at  the  hands  of  the 
mayor  and  commonalty  of  the  city  of  London  or  the  sheriffs,  in  lieu  of  a 
grant  to  him  of  an  annuity  of  10/.  which  Mary  some  time  the  wife  of  John 
Moulton  used  to  render  to  the  alien  abbot  of  Langennyth  from  a  tenement 
in  Somercotes  and  Saltefletby,  co.  Lincoln,  by  letters  patent  dated  30 
September,  surrendered  because  invalid.  By  p.s. 

Mandate  in  pursuance  to  the  mayor  and  commonalty  of  the  city  of 
London  or  the  sheriffs. 

July  6.  Pardon  to  John  Heycoke  late  of  Duffeld,  co.  'Derby,  laborer,'  for  all 

Westminster,  treasons  and  felonies  committed  by  him.  By  E. 

Aug.  7.  Notification  that  on  5  August  the  king  retained  his  kinsman  John,  earl 

Westminster,  of  Worcester,  to  go  on  his  service  at  sea  for  defence  against  his  enemies  for 

a  certain  term  of  years,  with  authority  to  annex  any  of  their  places  and 

countries,  and  that  he  shall  be  exonerated  from  the  subsequent  loss  of  any 

such  place  or  fortress  that  he  may  have  captured    [^FoederaJ]    By  K.  &  C. 

Aug.  29.  Pardon  to  James  Witton,  the  mayor,  and  the  citizens  of  Lincoln  of  100 
Westminster,  marks  yearly,  parcel  of  the  yearly  sum  of  180/.  of  the  fee  farm  of  the  city, 
of  which  Thomas  Roos,  knight,  late  lord  Boos,  was  seised  in  his  demesne 
as  of  fee  on  4  March,  1  Edward  lY.  and  which  came  into  the  king's  hands 
by  force  of  an  act  of  Parliament  at  Westminster,  4  November,  1  Edward  IV. 
and  also  of  50  marks  yearly  on  the  death  of  Eleanor,  duchess  of  Somerset, 
mother  of  the  said  Thomas,  who  holds  the  same  in  dower,  the  reversion  of 
which  cAme  into  the  king's  hands  as  above  (which  150  marks  the  ancestors 
of  the  said  Thomas  hsul  by  grant  of  Edward  II.),  with  the  arrears 
of  the  said  100  marks  from  Michaelmas  last ;  and  grant  to  them  of  the 
manor  of  Ingham,  co.  Lincoln,  and  four  messuages,  200  acres  of  land,  22 
acres  of  meadow,  3«.  44/.  of  rent  and  a  rent  of  a  pound  of  cumin  in  Ingham 
and  a  messuage,  50  acres  of  land  and  14  acres  of  meadow  in  Cotes  by  Stowe 
St.  Mary,  co.  Lincoln,  parcel  of  the  said  manor,  late  of  John  HelweU  late 
of  Gunby,  co.  Lincoln,  esquire,  of  which  William  Tailboys  late  of  South- 
kyme,  knight,  was  seised  in  his  demesne  as  of  fee  on  the  said  4  March  and 
which  came  to  the  king's  hands  by  force  of  the  said  act,  to  hold  with 
knights'  fees  and  other  rights  and  liberties  in  support  of  the  burdens  of  the 
city,  and  all  the  issues  of  the  same  from  the  said  4  March ;  in  lieu  of  a  like 
pardon  and  grant  by  letters  patent  dated  17  January,  1  Edward  IV. 
surrendered  because  invalid.  By  p.s. 


3  EDWABD  IV.— Pabt  II.  283 


1463.  Membrane  20 — corU, 

Sept.  24.  PresentatioQ  of  Willmm  Gille,  chaplain^  to  the  parish  chnrch  of  Chip- 

Westminster,  staple,  in  the  diocese  of  Bath  and  Wells,  in  the  king's  gift  by  reason  of  the 
temporalities  of  the  abbej  of  Mulchilneye  being  in  his  hands. 


MSMBRANB   19. 

March  14.        Pardon  to  John  Berwyke,  esquire,  and  Joan,  countess  of  Kent,  late  the 

Westminster,  wife  of  the  king's  uncle  William,  earl  of  Kent,  tenant  in  chief,  for  their 

trespass  in  intermarrying  without  licence.  By  p.s* 

March  24.        Grant  for  life  to  the  king's  servant  William  Paultfrom  4  July,  1  Edward  lY. 

Westminster,  of  the  office  of  serjeant  of  the  tailors  in  the  king's  great  wardrobe,  receiving 
12^.  daily  from  the  issues  of  the  king's  manor  or  lordship  of  Langley 
Marreys,  with  a  livery  yearly  at  the  bands  of  the  keeper  of  the  wardrobe 
and  all  other  profits,  in  lien  of  a  like  grant  to  him  by  letters  patent,  dated 
4  July,  1  Edward  IV.  surrendered.  By  p,s. 

—  Ghrant  to  Margaret  Hungerford,  widow,  late  the  wife  of  Bobert  Hunger- 

ford,  that  whereas  the  said  Bobert  was  seised  in  his  lifetime  of  divers 
manors,  lands,  and  tenements  in  the  counties  of  Wilts,  Somerset,  Dorset, 
and  Devon,  in  his  demesne  as  of  fee  and  enfeoffed  John,  bishop  of  Lincoln, 
John,  bishop  of  Worcester,  Bichard  Ghok,  and  others  of  certain  parcels  of 
the  same,  and  John  Beynton,  knight,  John  Say^  esquire,Thomas  Estyngton, 
clerk,  and  others  of  other  (larcels,  and  Edmund  Hungerford,  knight,  Andrew 
Huls,  clerk,  John  Piers,  clerk,  and  others  of  other  parcels,  to  the  intent  that 
the  said  Margaret  might  receive  the  issues  of  the  same  for  the  payment  of 
all  sums  of  money  due  from  him  to  his  creditors,  and  also  great  sums  of 
money  lent  at  their  instance  by  certain  knights,  esquires  and  merchants 
of  the  realm  for  the  acquittance  of  Thomas,  archbishop  of  Canterbury,  and 
Bichard,  earl  of  Warwick,  the  king's  kinsmen,  and  other  magnates  who 
were  lately  lK>und  for  the  ransom  of  Bobert,  late  lord  of  Hungerford  and 
Molens,  captured  in  the  duchy  of  Aquitaine,  and  the  said  knights,  esquires 
and  merchants  are  still  bound  for  the  said  sums  to  Bichard  Quatermayns, 
Simon  Nory  and  others,  the  said  bishops  and  others  may  hold  and  enjoy 
the  said  lands  according  to  the  last  will  [of  the  said  Robert]  and  demise 
them  or  parcels  of  them  to  the  yearly  vtilue  of  200 — ,  and  she  herself  may 
freely  enjoy  all  the  lands  which  she  holds  in  dower  or  otherwise. 
Vacated  because  elsewhere  in  this  year, 

June  30.  Grant  to  the  king's  kinsman  John,  earl  of  Worcester,  and  Bobert  Styl- 
Westminster,  lyngton,  king's  clerk,  keeper  of  the  privy  seal,  in  repayment  of  193B/.  12*.  Zd. 
and  9C0/.  ^.  8//.  due  to  them  respectively  for  certain  causes  concerning 
the  custody  of  the  sea,  of  two  parts  and  the  third  part  respectively  of  all 
the  moneys  arising  from  the  subsidies  culled  ^  tonnage '  and  '  poundage,' 
viz.  Zs,  from  the  tun  and  12 J.  from  the  pound,  in  the  ports  of  London, 
Southampton  and  Sandwich  until  they  be  fully  satisfied ;  and  grant  that 
during  that  time  they  may  nominate  as  often  as  they  please  a  suitable 
person  to  the  treasurer  of  England  for  appointment  as  one  of  the  collectors 
in  each  of  the  said  ports.  By  p.8. 

Oct.  13.         Pardon  to  John  Budde  of  Wynterton,  co.  Lincoln, '  marchaunt,' of  his 

Westminster,  outlawry  in  the  county  of  Middlesex  for  not  appearing  before  the  king  to 

answer  him  touching   divers  trespasses,  he  having  surrendered  to  the 

Mtirshalsea  prison,  as  John  Markham,  chief  justice  of  the  King's  Bench, 

has  certified. 

Get.  21.  Pardon  to  William  Brodpeny  of  London, '  brewer,'  of  his  outlawry  in  the 

Westmioster.   county  of  Middlesex  for  not  appearing  before  the  justices  of  the  Bench  to 

satisfy  the  king  of  his  ransom  because  he  and  John  Skypton  of  London, 

'grocer,'  did  not  bring  Walter  Bede  late  of  London,  'grocer,'  before 

John  Prysot  and  his  fellows,  justices  of  the  Bench  of  the  late  king,  at   a 


284  CALENDAR  OF  PATENT  ROLLS. 


1463*  Membrane  19 — cont, 

certain  day  to  answer  John  Hammes  touching  a  plea  of  trespass,  as  they 
made  mainprise  to  do,  he  having  surrendered  to  the  Flete  prison,  as  Robert 
Danbj,  chief  justice  of  the  Bench,  has  certified. 
The  like  to  John  Skypton  of  London, '  grocer,'  for  the  same. 

MbM  BRANS  18. 

March  30.  Grant  to  Margaret  Hupgerford,  widow,  late  the  wife  of  Robert 
Westminster.  Hungerford,  knight,  that  whereas  the  said  Robert  was  seised  in  his  life- 
time of  divers  manors,  lands  and  tenements  in  the  counties  of  Wilts, 
Somei'set,  Dorset  and  Devon  in'  his  demesne  as  of  fee  and  enfeoffed  John, 
bishop  of  Lincoln,  John,  bishop  of  Worcester,  Richard  Chok  and  others  of 
certain  parcels  of  the  same  and  John  Beynton,  knight,  John  Say,  esquire, 
Thomas  Estyngton,  clerk,  and  others  of  other  parcels  and  Edmund 
Hungerford,  knight,  Andrew  Huls,  clerk,  John  Piers,  clerk,  and  others  of 
other  parcels  to  the  intent  that  the  said  Margaret  might  receive  the  issues  of 
the  same  for  th 3  payment  of  all  sums  of  money  due  from  him  to  his  creditors 
and  also  great  sums  of  money  lent  at  their  instance  by  certain  knights, 
esquires  and  merchants  of  the  realm  for  the  acquittance  of  Thomas,  arch- 
bishop of  Canterbury,  and  Richard  earl  of  Warwick,  the  king's  kinsmen, 
and  other  magnates  who  were  lately  bound  for  the  ransom  of  Robert,  late 
lord  of  Hungerford  and  Moleyns,  captured  in  the  duchy  of  Aquitaine,  and 
the  said  knights,  esquires  and  merchants  are  still  bound  for  the  said  sums 
to  Richard  Quatermayns,  Simon  Nory  and  others,  the  said  bishops  and 
others  may  hold  and  enjoy  the  said  lands  according  to  the  last  will  of  the 
said  Robert  Hungerford  and  she  may  receive  the  issues  for  the  fulfilment 
of  the  said  will,  and  that  they  may  demise  the  said  lands  or  parcels  of  them 
to  the  yearly  value  of  200/.  if  they  find  a  purchaser,  und  that  she  herself 
may  freely  enjoy  all  the  lands  which  she  holds  in  dower  or  otherwise. 

ByK. 

Mbmbranb  17. 

June  15.  Pardon  to  John  Grene  of  Kyngeston  on  Hull,  merchant,  of  his  outlawry 
Westminster,  in  London  for  not  appeai*ing  before  John  Prisot  and  his  fellows,  justices  of 
the  Bench  of  the  late  king,  to  satisfy  Robert  John  of  London,  merchant, 
John  Debracunhac  of  Westchestre,  merchant,  John  Dedewodd  of  West- 
chestre,  merchant,  and  Bernard  Deupkauteis,  merchant,  of  225/.  which 
they  recovered  against  him  and  50  marks  damages,  he  having  surrendered 
to  the  Flete  prison  and  satisfied  them  of  the  said  sums,  as  Robert  Danby, 
knight,  chief  justice  of  the  Bench,  has  certified. 

June  14.  Grant  for  life  to  Margaret,  countess  of  Shrewsbury,  late  the  wife  of  John, 
Westminster,  earl  of  Shrewsbury,  of  10  marks  yearly  from  4  March,  1  Edward  IV. 
from  the  issues  of  the  county  of  Salop.  Henry  YI.  by  letters  patent 
created  her  husband  earl  of  Shrewsbury  and  granted  20/.  yearly  from  the 
issues  of  the  county  to  him  and  the  heirs  of  his  body,  and  after  his  death  10 
marks  yearly  were  assigned  to  her  for  dower  out  of  the  same,  but  by 
force  of  an  act  in  Parliament  at  Westminster,  4  November,  1  Edward  IV. 
though  the  letters  were  valid  so  far  as  concerned  the  creation,  the  said 
yeai'ly  rent  came  into  the  king's  hands.  By  p.s. 

July  28.         Grant  for  life  to  Thomas  Dovedall, '  gentilman,'.by  mainprise  of  Emoreus 

Westminster.  Saintlaurence  of  London,  '  gentilman,'  and  Thomas    Gbirney  of   London, 

'  yoman,'  of  all  messuages,  lands,  rents,  services  and  other  hereditaments  of 

the  king  in   Coly  in   Ireland,   rendering  yearly   their  true  value  at  the 

Exchequer  of  Ireland.  By  p.s. 

Aug,  23.         Grant  to  Leyson  Geffrey,  chaplain,  of  the  prebend  which  William  Michell, 

Westminster,  deceased,  lately  had  within  the  college  of  St.  George  within  the  king's 

castle  of  Wyndesore.  By  p.s. 


3  EDWARD  IV.— Pabt  II.  285 


1463.  Membrane  17— cont. 

Mandate  in  pursuance  to  the  dean  or  warden  of  the  college  or  his 
locum  tenens  there. 

Aug.  30.  Grant  for  life  to  Alice  Mortjmer  for  her  good  service  to  the  king  and 

Westminster,  his  father  and  because  of  her  old  age  and  debility,  of  an  annuity  of  10/. 

from  the  issues  of  the  manor  of  Little  Weldon,  co.  Northampton.      By  p.s. 

Sept.  1.  Licence  for  the    sub-prior   and    canons    of    the    priory    of    St.  Mary^ 

Westminster.   Suthewyk,  to  elect  a  prior  in  the  place  of  John  Soburton,  deceased. 

Aug.  30.  General  pardon  to  William  Plompton  of  Plompton,  co.  York,  knight, 

Westminster,  alias    Plomton  late    of  Knaresburgh,  co.  York,  knight^  alias  Phimpton 

late  of  Kynalton,  co.  Nottingham,  knight,  a/ta«  Plumton  late  of  London, 

knight.  By  p.s. 

Sept.  8.  Signification   to  W.   bishop  of  Winchester  of  the  royal  assent  to  the 

Westminster,  election  of  Philip  Stanebrok,  canon  of  the  conventual  church  of  St.  Mary, 
Suthwyk,  of  the  order  of  St.  Augustine,  as  prior  of  that  place. 

Aug.  27.  Grant  to  the  mayor,  commonalty  and  citizens  of  London  that  the  tronage 

Westminster,  or  weighing,  deposition  and  housing  of  any  wools  brought  by  anyone  from 
any  parts  to  the  city  of  London,  such  as  formerly  used  to  be  brought 
to  the  staple  of  Westminster,  shall  henceforth  be  in  a  place  called 
'  Ledenhall '  within  the  city  and  in  no  other  place  for  three  miles  from  the 
dty,  and  that  they  shall  have  the  9ame  without  rendering  anything  to  the 
king.  By  p.s. 

Aug.  28.  Grant  for  life  to  the  king's  servitor  Robert  Stathum  of  the  office  of 

Westminster,  usher  and  crier  in  the  King's  Bench,  receiving  the  accustomed  fees. 

V  By  p.8. 

Sept.  13.         Licence  for  the  prior  and  convent  of  Mochelney  to  elect  an  abbot  in  the 
Westminster,  place  of  John  Cherde,  deceased. 

Sept.  24.         Signification  to  Th.  bishop  of  Bath  and  Wells  of  the  royal  assent  to  the 
Westminster,  election  of  Dan  Thomas  Fype,  prior  of  Mochelneye,  of  the  order  of  St. 
Benedict,  as  abbot  of  that  place. 

Oct.  21.  Revocation  of  the  protection  with  clause  volumus,  for  one  vear,  lately 

Westminster,  granted  by  letters  patent  to  John  Shirwode  of  Goventre,  merchant,  cUias 
of  Alspathe,  co.  Warwick,  esquire,  alias  late  of  London, '  grocer/  staying 
on  the  king's  service  in  the  company  of  John  Wode,  esquire,  victualler 
of  the  king's  town  and  castle  of  Calais  and  the  marches  there  in  the 
parts  of  Picardy,  on  the  safe-custody,  defence  and  victualling  of  the 
same,  because  he  delays  at  Alspath,  as  the  sheriff  of  Warwick  lias  certified. 

Oct.  21.  Granty  during  pleasure,  to  Henry  Grey  of  Cotenore,  knight,  and  his 

Westminster,  deputies  and  assigns  of  power  and  authority  to  labour,  by  the  conning  of 

philosophy,  transmutation    of  metals  with  all  other  things  requisite  and 

necessary  to  the  same  at  his  own  cost,  so  that  he  shall  answer  to  the  king  if 

any  profit  grow.  By  p.s.  [1298.] 

Membrane  16. 

May  24.  Inspeximus  and  confirmation  to  the  bnigesses  of  Pembroke  of  letters 

Westminster,  patent  dated  16  January,  1  Richard  II.  inspecting  and  confirming  letters 

pritent  dated  14  November,  34  Edward  III.  inspecting  and  confirming  a 

charter  dated  at  Reading,  15  May,  40  Henry  III.  being  a  grant  to  them  of 

divers  liberties.  For  40f .  paid  in  the  hanaper. 

June  8.  Whereas  Thomas  late  lord  of  Roos  being  seised  in  his  lifetime  of  the 

Westminster,  manors  of  Storthwaytte  and  Melborno  with  the  turbary  of  Landriknose,  with 
20/.  from  a  yearly  fee  farm  from  the  priory  of  Wartre,  co.  York,  a  moiety  of 
the  manor  of  Hoghton  by  Walsynham,  a  moiety  of  the  manors  of  Holte  and 
Cleye  called  '  Roos  Fee '  and  the  other  moiety  of  the  same  manors  calleil 
*  Nevyle  Fee,'  the  manors  of  Hakford  and  Whitewell,  four  parts  of  the 


286  CAXBNDAR  OF  PATENT  ROLLS. 


14g3^  Membrane  16— «<m^. 

manor  of  Wodehoos,  aad  the  manor  of  Watton^  co.  Norfolk,  and  the  manor 
of  Brentbradfeld,  co.  Suffolk,  in  his  demesne  as  of  fee,  coifeoffed  Robert 
Wesynham,  who  is  still  living,  and  Thomas  Ghaworth,  Robert  Babthorp, 
William  Bahjngioxx^  knights,  William  Heton,  Geoffrey  Paynell  and  Robert 
Hoton,  now  deceased,  of  the  same  to  the  intent  that  they  should  fulfil  his  last 
will,  and  ordered  that  when  his  son  Richard  Rooe,  esquire,  should  reach  the 
age  of  twenty  years  they  should  demise  the  same  to  him  for  life,  and  the 
same  came  into  the  king's  hands  by  force  of  an  Act  of  Parliament  at  West- 
minster, 4  November,  1  Edward  IV.  against  Thomas  Roos,  knight,  brother 
of  the  said  Richard,  the  king  now  grants  licence  to  the  said  Richard  {sic) 
Wesynham  to  hold  Uie  same  again  and  demise  them  to  the  said  Richard  Roos 
as  above.  By  p.s. 

June  16.         Presentation  of  Robert   Ippeswell,  parson    of    the    parish   church  of 
WestminBter.  Kyrkested  and  the  church  of  Langale  annexed  and  united  to  the  same,  in 
the  diocese  of  Norwich,  to  the  parish  church  of  Haddesco,  in  the  same 
diocese,  on  an  exchange  of  benefices  with 'Thomas  Saxhanu 

June  16.  Grant  to  William  Herbert,  king's  knight,  whom  the  king  has  raised  to  the 

Westminster,  rank  of  a  baron,  and  the  heirs  of  his  body,  in  consideration  of  his  services 
against  Henry  VI.  Henry,  duke  of  Exeter,  Jasper,  earl  of  Pembroke,  James, 
earl  of  Wiltslure,  and  other  rebels  and  the  reduction  of  divers  castles,  towns, 
fortresses  and  territories  in  Wales  which  they  had  held  and  fortified,  of  the 
honour,  castle,  manor  and  borough  of  Dunster,  the  manor  of  Mynhede,  the 
manor  of  Garhampton,  the  hundred  of  Carhampton,  the  manor  of  Culveton, 
the  manor  of  Estcantok  alieu  Cantokeshede,  the  Inanor  of  Iveton,  two 
messuages,  209  acres  of  land  and  24  acres  of  meadow  in  Elaynesford  and 
Waget,  five  messuages,  three  carucates  of  land,  6  acres  of  meadow  and  13^.  of 
rent,  in  Exston,  Wexford,  Rixen  and  Stogomer,a  messuage  and  a  carucate  of 
land  in  WibwiU  alias  Wibbill,  two  messuages,  a  toft,  60  acres  of  land  and 
10  acres  of  meadow,  in  Huysshe  by  Heybrigge,  and  a  messuage  and  8  acres 
of  land  in  Cotheleston,  co.  Somerset,  the  manors  of  Chilton  and  Blancombe, 
CO.  Devon,  the  manors  of  Stonehall  and  Wodehall,  co.  Sunolk,  and  all  other 
lands  and  possessions  in  those  counties  late  of  James  Loterell,  knight,  and 
in  the  king's  hands  by  reason  of  his  forfeiture  and  an  act  in  Parliament  at 
Westminster,  4 'November,  1  Edward  IV.  and  also  the  reversions  of  aU 
manors,  lands  and  possessions  in  those  counties  which  Walter  Radney, 
knight,  John  Seymor,  knight,  Elizabeth  late  the  wife  of  the  said  James 
Loterell,  John  Kemeys  and  Eleanor  his  wife  and  Roger  Person  and  Alice 
his  wife  hold  for  life  on  their  c^eaths,  lately  belonging  to  the  said  James  but 
now  in  the  king's  liands  as  above,  with  aU  franchises,  liberties,  courts,  views 
of  frank-pledge,  hundreds,  fiurs,  markets,  parks,  stews,  knights'  fees, 
advowsons,  wreck  of  sea  and  other  profits,  with  all  issues  from  4  March,  1 
Edward  IV.  By  K. 

June  20.         Pardon  to  John  Bagot  of  Bristol, '  marehaunt,'  for  all  offences  committed 

Westminster,   by  him  against  the  statute  in  Parliament  at  Westminster,  8  Henry  VI 

enacting  that  none  of  the  king's  lieges  shall  go  to  any  lands  and  places  of 

the  king  of  Denmark,  Norway  and  Sweden  for  the  sake  of  obtaining  fish  or 

other  g(KKis  or  merchandiBe  except  to  his  staple  of  North  Bergen  (Norberh^, 

By  p.s. 

June  24.         Appointment  at  pleasure  of  the  king^s  kinsman,  Edmund  Grey  of  Ruthin, 

Westminster,  as  treasurer  of  England,  with  the  accustomed  fees  and  authorities,  in  the 

same  manner  as  the  king's  kinsman  John,  earl  of  Worcester,  held  the  office. 

ByK. 

July  12.  Grant,  during  pleasure,  from  Michaelmas,  39  Henry  VI.  to  the  prior  and 

Westminflter.  convent  of  Friars  Preachers  in  the  University  of  Oxford  of  50  marks  yearly 

at  the  Exchequer  for  the  sustenance  of  the  Catholic  faith,  as  they  had  of 

the  grants  of  Henry  III.  Edward  I.  Edward  II.  Edward  Ui.  Richard  II. 

Henry  IV.  Henry  V.  and  Henry  VI.  By  pjj. 


3  EDWARD  IV.— Part  U.  287 


J  463.  Membrane  16— con/. 

July  18.  Grant  to  Thomas  Ejre,  kiug's  clerk,  priest  of  the  king's  chapel,  of  the 

Westminster,  custody  of  the  free  chapel  or  hospital  of  St.  Mary  in  the  town  of  Wyche, 

CO.  Worcester,  void  by  resignation  of  John  Graneley,  chaplain.  By  p.s. 

July  19.  Q-rant  to  the  king's  kinsman  George  Neville,  bishop  of  Exeter,  the 
Westminster,  chancellor,  of  the  manors  and  lordships  of  Abyndon,  Saxton,  Swafham,  co. 
Cambridge,  Bumpstede,  Estonhalle,  Bewmond  and  Tylbury,  co.  Essex, 
Gokfeld,  Preston,  Haldham  and  Medham,  co.  Suffolk,  Predenek,  Trenynyek, 
Penhale,  Roseneythan,  Ethron  and  Pol  dew,  co.  Cornwall,  and  Chepyng* 
norton,  co.  Oxford,  with  advowsons,  knights'  fees  and  other  profits,  horn 
Michaelmas  last,  during  the  minority  of  John  Veer,  son  and  heir  of  John, 
earl  of  Oxford,  without  rendering  anything  to  the  king.  By  K. 

Mbmbranb  15. 

July  19.         Appointment,  during  pleasure,  of  John  Harpour  and  William  Weldon  as 

Westminster,  auditors  of  all  accounts  ot  chamberlains,  sheriffs,  escheators  and  other  officers 

and  ministers  of  the  king  in  South  Wales,  receiving  such  fees  as  John  Geryn 

and  John  Somers,  late  auditors,  had  at  the  hands  of  the  chamberlain  or 

any  other  minister  there.  By  bill  of  the  treasurer. 

Oct  10.  Protection,  for  life,  for  Thomas  Warner,  citizen  and  *  iremonger '  of 

Westminster.  London,  and  his  men  and  possessions ;  and  licence  for  him  to  construct  a 

wharf  or  quay  on  his  soil  at  Weybrigge,  co.  Surrey,  adjoining  the  river 

Thames,  and  to  load  and  unload  vessels  Uiere  and  take  merchandise  to  and 

from  the  city  of  London  and  other  places  adjoining  the  river.  By  p.s. 

Oct.  10.         Protection,  for  life,  for  Thomas  Pourt  of  BradweU,  co.  Essex,  *  yoman,' 
Westminster,   and  his  men  and  possessions.  By  p.s. 

July  20.         Licence,  for  three  years,  for  William,  bishop  of  Meath,  to  stay  in  England 

Northampton,  or  Ireland  at  his  pleasure  and  collect  tiie  issues  of  his  lands  and  possessions 

by  his  servants.     [FcBdera."]  By  p.s. 

Oct.  21.         Whereas  by  letters  patent  dated  23  May,  1  Edward  IV.  by  mainprise  of 
Westminster.  Richard  Weldon,  esquire,  and  Robert  Walsam  of  London, '  gentilman,'  the 
king  committed  to  John  Brewester,  one  of  his  clerks  of  the  office  of  the  privy 
seal,  the  custody  of  a  moiety  two  tenements  called '  brewhowses '  occupied  by 
him,  one  called  '  the  Garlond '  and  the  other '  the  Cok  uppon  the  Hoop,'  in  the 
parish  of  St.  Stephen  in  Oolmanstrete,  London,  and  two  other  tenements  in 
the  same  parish  of  which  one  was  some  time  of  John  Essex  and  lately 
occupied  by  John  Roger,  ^  gentilman,'  and  the  other  was  some  time  of  Adam 
Godeman  and  lately  occupied  by  Richard  Frome  of  London,  ^  skynner,'  and 
iJso  109.  of  rent  from  a  tenement  some  time  of  William  Hardewyk,  which  were 
taken  into  the  hands  of  Henry  VI.  and  afterwards  committed  to  John  Bale, 
esquire,  by  the  name  of  all  houses  late  of  Roger  de  Bourser  dticu  Purser, 
William  Grapefige,  John  Essex  and  Adam  Ghnieman,  to  hold  for  40  years 
from  Michaelmas  then  last;  and  by  letters  patent  dated  12  May,  1  Edward 
IV.  he  appointed^  John  Shukburgh  and  William  Browgrene  to  the  custody  of 
a  messuage  by  the  name  of  all  houses  late  of  the  said  Roger  and  others  in 
the  said  parish,  which  were  taken  into  the  king's  hands  by  Simon  Eyre,  late 
mayor  and  escheator  of  the  city  of  London,  and  also  \0s,  of  rent  from  a  tene- 
ment of  William  Hardewyke  in  the  parish  of  St.  Lawrence  in  Old  Jewry, 
taken  into  the  king's  hands  as  above,  and  afterwards  committed  to  John  Bale, 
esquire,  to  hold  for  40  years  from  Easter  then  last ;  and  by  letters  patent 
dated  28  October,  1  Edward  IV.  he  appointed  the  same  to  the  custody  of  two 
messuages  late  of  the  said  William  Grrapefige,  a  tenement  late  of  John 
Essex,  all  tenements  and  shops  of  an  alley  called  ^  Chirch  Aley '  late  of 
Adam  Godeman  in  the  parish  of  St.  Stephen  and  \0s.  of  rent  late  of  the  said 
John  Essex  in  the  parish  of  St  Lawrence  in  Jewry,  which  were  taken  into 
the  hands  of  Henry  VI.  and  two  messuages  and  four  gardens  in  the  same 


288  CALENDAR  OP  PATENT  ROLLS. 


1463.  Membrane  15 — cont. 

parish  of  St.  Stephen  late  of  the  said  Roger  Burser,  which  were  taken  into  the 
hands  of  HeDrj  YL  by  John  Gedney,  late  major  and  escheator  of  tbe  oitj,  to 
hold  for  two  and  a  half  years  from  Easter  then  last,  rendering  to  the  king. 
12  marks  yearly ;  and  all  these  letters  have  been  surrendered :  the  king  now 
commits  to  William  Leek,  vicar  of  the  parish  church  of  St  Stephen  in  Col- 
manslrete,  and  John  Shukburgh  and  Thomas  Berby,  keeper  of  the  goods 
and  ornaments  of  the  church,  the  custody  of  the  said  moiety,  the  said  two 
tenements  some  time  of  John  Essex  and  Adam  Godeman,  and  the  lOs,  of 
rent  from  the  tenement  formerly  of  William  Hardewyk  in  the  parish  of 
St.  Lawrence  in  Old  Jewry,  in  consideration  of  the  pious  intentions  of  the 
said  William  Grapefige,  John  an<l  Adam,  expressed  in  their  last  wills,  to 
hold  for  5  years  from  Michaelmas  last,  rendering  yearly  an  extent  to  be 
agreed  upon  between  the  treasurer  and  the  said  yicar  and  the  wardens 
of  the  church  before  Christmas  next  *  By  p.s. 

MSMBRANB  14. 

July  6.  Licence,  for  60;.  paid  in  the  hanaper,  for  Quy  Fairfax,  Henry  Cawod, 

WestmiDBter.  John  Russell,  clerk,  and  Richard  Russell  to  grant  thii'ty  messuages,  four 
tofts,  a  mill,  120  acres  of  land,  16  acres  of  meadow,  30  acres  of  pasture 
and  Ss.  of  rent  in  Cawod,  held  in  chief,  to  Robert  Pudsey,  chaplain,  and 
John  Burton,  chaplain,  and  for  the  latter  to  re-grant  the  same  to  the  said 
Guy  and  John  Russell  for  three  yeai*8  with  successive  remainders  to 
Margaret,  daughter  and  heiress  of  John  Cawod,  and  the  heirs  of  her  body, 
the  said  Henry  Cawod  and  the  heirs  of  his  body,  and  the  right  heirs  of 
Peter  Cawod,  father  of  the  said  Henry, 

June  4.  Pardon  to  Thomas  Beneste  of  SolyhuU,  co.  Warwick,  ^  taillour,'  for  all 

Westminster,  treasons,  felonies,  and  trespasses  committed  by  him. 

By  K.  by  word  of  mouth. 

July  3.  Grant  to  the  prior  and  convent  of  the  chapel  of  St.  Peter,  Kyrkeby  on 

Westminster.  Wrethek,  co.    LBicestcr,  in    consideration  of  their   impoverishment,  that 

they  and  their  successors  shall  be  quit  of  all  tenths,  part  of  tenths,  aids, 

subsidies,  contributions  and  tallages.  By  p.s. 

July  18.  Revocation  of  the  protection  with  clause  volumuSf  for  one  year,  granted 

Westminster.  13  July  by  letters  patent  to  William  Wade,  'gentilman'  alias  esquire, 
staying  on  the  king's  service  in  the  company  of  Walter  Blounte,  king's 
knight,  treasurer  of  the  king's  town  and  castle  of  Calais  and  the  marches 
there,  on  the  safe-custody,  defence  and  victualling  of  the  same,  because 
he  delays  in  the  city  and  suburbs  of  London,  as  appears  by  certificate  of 
the  sheriffs. 

July  13.         Appointment,  during  pleasure,  of  Richard  Benteley  as  ganger  in  the 

Westminster,  port  of  Southampton  and  ports  and  places  adjacent,  receiving  the  accustomed 

lees.  By  bill  of  the  treasurer. 

Sept.  23.        The  like  of  Walter  Stotfold  in  the  port  of  Sandwich  and  ports  and  places 
Westminster,  adjacent.  By  bill  of  the  treasurer. 

1464. 

Jan.  7.  Exemplification,  at  the  request  of  John  Johnson  the  younger,  citizen  and 

Westminster,  butcher  of  London,  of  the  following : — 

1.  A  writing  of  John  Johnson  the  elder,  citizen  and  butcher  of  London, 

enrolled  in  Chancery,  dated  20  August,  33  Henry  VI.  being  a  grant 
to  Dan  William  Bolton,  clerk,  Dan  Robert  Pyryngton,  rector  of 
the  parish  church  of  St.  Leonard  in  Estchepe,  London,  Thomas 
Lute,  'gentllman,'  Thomas  Croxton,  'gentilman,'  Thomas  More, 
^  gentilman,'  Thomas  Adam, '  gentilman,'  and  the  said  John  Johnson 
the  younger  of  all  his  moveal>le». 

2.  A. memorandum  that  the  said  John  Johnson  the  elder  came   into 

Chancery  on  21  August  and  acknowledged  the  above. 


3  EDWAKD  IV.— Part  II.  289 


1463 ,  Membrane  13. 

July  30.         Grant  for  life  to  the  king's  servant,  William  Kaynell,  of  the  custody  of 
Westminster,  the  parks  of  Cossam,  co.  Wilts,  and  the  office  of  parker  of  the  same,  with 
wages  of  4d.  daily  from  20  May,  1  Edward  IV.  from  the  issues  of  the 
manors  of  Cossam,  in  lieu  of  a  similar  grant  of  the  custody  of  the  parks  by 
letters  patent  dated  20  May,  1  Edward  IV.  surrendered.  By  K. 

Mandate   in    pursuance   to  the  farmers,   bailiffs,   receivers  and  other 
occupiers  of  the  manors. 

July  21.  Qencral   pardon   to  Richard  Lythyerd   of  the  town   of   Southampton, 

WestiniDster.  <  bower,'  alias  Bichard  Bower,  for  nil  offences  committed  by  him  before 

19  July  last.  By  p.s. 

Aug.  12.        General  pardon  to  Eustace  Bourneby  of  Watford,   co.  Northampton, 
WestmiDFter.  esquire.  By  p.8. 

Au<;.  28.         Grant  to  the  king's  kinsmen  Thomas,  archbishop  of    Canterbury,  and 

Westminster.   John,  earl  of  Worcester,  of  the  presentation  to  the  next  vacant  prebend 

within  the  college  of  St.  George,  Wyndesore.  By  p.s. 

Sept.  28.  Kevocation  of  the  protection  with  clause  volumus^  for  one  year,  granted  30 
Westminster.  March  by  letters  patent  to  James  Falleron  of  London,  merchant,  staying  on 
the  k  ing's  service  in  the  company  of  the  king's  kinsman  the  earl  of  Warwick, 
captain  of  the  king's  castle  and  town  of  Calais  and  the  marches  there,  on 
the  safe-cu&tody,  defence  and  victualling  of  the  same,  because  he  delays  in 
the  city  and  suburbs  of  London,  as  Bartholomew  James  and  William 
Hampton,  sheriffs,  have  certified. 

Oct.  29.  Grant  for  life  to  John  Brekenok,  esquire,  of  the  king's  manor  and  lord- 

Westminster,  ship  of  Wyrardesbury,  co.  Buckingham,  with  all  courts  leet,  views  of 
frank-pledge,  rents,  services,  members  and  appurtenances,  and  all  issues 
from  the  same  from  16  February,  1  Edward  IV.  and  the  advowson  of  the 
priory  of  Ankerwyk  in  the  same  county,  by  fealty  and  a  rent  of  a  pair  of 
spurs  or  3s,  4d.  yearly  at  Michaelmas ;  because  by  the  advice  of  the  king's 
father  Bichard,  late  duke  of  Ybrk,  and  others  of  the  blood  he  was  appointed 
to  the  office  of  treasurer  of  the  household  of  Henry  VI.  and  was  charged 
with  a  sum  of  10,000  marks  for  the  expenses  of  the  same,  for  wiiich  he 
received  no  payment  besides  letters  patent  and  assignments  by  tallies, 
which  are  now  invalid,  and  has  sold  all  his  jewels  and  a  great  part  of 
his  lands  and  is  still  indebted  to  divers  persons  in  the  sum  of  1200/. 

Oct.  26.  Grant  for  ten  years  to  the  mayor,  aldermen,  sheriffs  and  burgesses  of  the 

Westminster,    town  of  Kyngeston  on  Hull,  on  account  of  the  despoiling  of  their  goods 

by  the  rebels,  that  they  may  ship  merchandise,  wools  and  wool-fells  excepted, 

Y^ithin  the  port  of  the    town,   whereon   the   custom  and  subsidy  would 

amount  to  the  sum  of  40/.  yearly,  quit  of  such  custom  and  subsidy.   By  p.s. 

Mandate  in  pursuance  to  the   customers  or  collectors  of  customs  and 
subsidies  in  the  port.  Erant  patens. 

Oct.  28.  General  pardon  to  Katharine  Fox  of  London,  alias  late  of  London, 

Westminster,    widow.  By  p.s. 

Oct.  30.  Appointment  of  the  king's  kinsman  Thomas,  archbishop  of  Canterbury, 

Westminster,  to  attend  in  the  king's  place  at  Westminster  on  4  November  next,  to  which 

day  Parliament  stands  prorogued,  and  to  prorogue  and  adjourn  the  same  to 

20  February  next  at  the  city  of  York.  By  K. 

March  31.        Mandate  to  the  escheator  in  the  county  of  York  for  the  restitution  of  the 

Westminster,    temporalities  of  the  Benedictine  abbey  of  St.  Peter  and  St.  Hilda,  Whitby, 

to  Thomas   Piker^ng,  monk  of  the  monastery,  whose  election  as  abbot 

William,  archbishop  of  York,  has  confirmed,  and  whose  fealty  the  king  has 

ordered  to  be  taken  by  the  prior  of  Gysburn.  By  p.s. 

The  like  to  the  following  :  — 

The  escheator  in  the  county  of  Lincoln. 
The  mayor  of  the  city  of  York,  escheator  in  the  stfme  city. 
Writ  de  intendendo  in  pursuance  to  the  tenants. 

tt    86914  T 


290 


CALENDAB  OF  PATENT  ROLLS. 


1463. 

Ma^r  1. 

Westminster. 

June  14. 
Westminster. 


Sept.  20. 
Westminster. 


Membrane  13 — cont. 

Licence  for  the  prior  and  conveht  of  Battle  to  elect  an  abbot  in  the  place 
of  Bicbardy  late  abbot^  deceased.  Bj  p.A. 

Mandate  to  the  escbeator  in  the  county  of  Kent  for  the  restitution  of  the 
temporalities  of  the  abbej  of  St.  Martin,  Battle,  to  John  Newton,  monk, 
whose  election  as  abbot  John,  bishop  of  Chichester,  has  confirmed,  and 
whose  fealty  the  king  has  taken.  By  p.s. 

The  like  to  the  escheators  in  the  following  counties : — 
Surrey  and  Sussex. 
Southampton  and  WHtR, 
Oxford  and  Berks. 
Essex. 

Writ  de  intendendo  in  pursuance  to  the  tenants. 

Mandate  to  the  escheator  in  the  county  of  Southampton  for  the 
restitution  of  the  temporalities  of  the  priory  of  St.  Mary,  Suthwyke,  to 
Philip  Stanbroke,  canon  of  the  house,  whose  election  as  prior  William, 
bishop  of  Winchester,  has  confirmed,  and  whose  fealty  the  king  has 
taken. 

The  like  to  the  escheator  in  the  county  of  Sussex. 

Writ  de  intendemdo  in  pursuance  to  the  tenants. 


Membranb  12. 

« 

July  6.  It  appears  by  an  inquisition  viriuio  officii  taken  at  Bathe,  co.  Somerset, 

Westminster,  on  26  February,  38  Henry  VI.  before  Peter  Bamfeld,  escheator  in  the 
county,  and  returned  into  the  Exchequer,  that  Thomas  Wattis  of 
Knolle,  CO.  Somerset,  *  gentilmim,'  was  seised  of  a  messuage  and  40 
acres  of  land  in  Knolle  and  20  acres  of  pasture  in  West  Doulissh, 
CO.  Somerset,  in  his  demesne  as  of  fee,  held  of  John  Booler  as  of  his 
manor  of  Knolle,  and  that  he  died  on  6  September  then  last  past,  and 
that  Bichard  Wattis  was  his  son  and  heir  and  was  of  the  age  of  20  years 
and  an  idiot  from  his  birth ;  and  afterwards  the  said  Richard  appeared 
before  the  king  in  Chancery  at  Westminster  complaining  that  he  had  been 
expelled  from  the  possession  of  the  said  ti'nements  by  the  said  escheator 
under  colour  of  the  said  inquisition  and  by  William  Mountagu  of  Henley, 
esquire,  under  colour  of  letters  patent  dated  29  May,  38  Henry  VI.  being 
a  grant  to  him  ot  the  custody,  and  that  he  was  of  sane  mind  and  had 
always  so  been,  and  praying  redress.  And  the  king  on  1  Jmc  last  ordered 
the  ^erifT  of  the  county  to  summon  the  said  William  to  appear  before  him 
in  Chancery  in  the  octave  of  Midsummer  to  shew  cause  why  the  said 
letters  should  not  be  annulled  and  the  said  Richard  restored  to  possession, 
and  the  sheriff  returned  that  he  had  summoned  the  said  William  to  appear 
as  the  writ  demanded  by  John  Knolles,  William  Fl^nt,  Thomas  Pyme  and 
William  Fry,  good  men  of  his  bailiwick,  but  the  said  William  did  not 
appear.  And  accordingly  by  the  advice  of  council,  the  king  revokes  the 
said  letters  patent  and  restores  the  said  Richard  to  possession,  with  all  issues 
'  and  profits  from  the  time  of  seizure. 

March  18.        Mandate  to  the  escheator  in  the  county  of  Middlesex  for  the  restitution 

Westipinster.    of  the  temporalities  of  the  Benedictine  abbey  of  Westminster,  to  Dan  George, 

abbot  of  the  monastery  by  provision  of  the  pope  on  the  cession  of  Edmuncl 

Kirton,  late  abbot,  as  he  had  renounced  everything  prejudicial  to  the  king 

in  the  saM^provision  and  the  king  has  taken  his  fealty.  By  p.s. 

The  lik4;to  the  escheators  in  the  following  counties  :— 
Northampton  and  Rutland. 
Buckingham. 


3  EDWARD  IV.— Part  II.  291 


1463*  Menhbrane  12 — cant 

Oxford  and  Berks. 

Essex  and  Hertford. 

Gloucester  and  the  inarches  of  Wales  adjacent. 

Worcester. 

Warwick. 

Surrey  ^nd  Sussex. 

The  like  to  Thomas  Coke,  mayor  of  the  city  of  London  and  escheator  in 
the  same  city. 

Writ  de  intendendo  in  pursuance  to  the  tenants. 

MSMBRANB   11. 

Aug.  10.  Whereas  Thomas  Philip  of  Berkyng,  co.  Essex, '  yoman/  in  the  Mar- 
Westminster,  shalsea  prison  for  finding  security  to  keep  the  peace  towards  John  Kelsy, 
was  released  on  bail  on  Wednesday  after  the  morrow  of  the  Purificalion, 
2  Edward  IV.  to  William  Dodde  of  London,  'marchaunt/  and  John  Philipp 
of  Berkyng,  co.  Essex,  '  yoman,'  until  one  month  after  Easter,  when  he 
was  to  appear  before  the  king,  under  penalty  of  10/.  each  from  the  said 
William  and  John  and  20/.  from  himself,  and  he  did  not  appear  and  the 
said  suras  were  forfeited,  the  king  now  pardons  to  William  Dodd  the  said 
sums.  By  p.s. 

Nov.  6.  Presentation  of  Nicholas  Gaynesford,  chaplain,   to  the  vicarage  of  the 

Westminster,  parish  church  of  Moorton,  in  the  diocese  of  London,  void  by  the  death  of 
John  Hoky,  chaplain,  late  vicar. 

Nov,  28.         Pardon,  at   the   supplication   of  Walter  Plesaunce,  to  the   abbot  and 

Pontefract.     convent  of  Selby  of  the  80/.  which  they  are  bound  to  pay  to  the  king  for 

their  temporalities  at  the  next  voidance  of  the  abbey   and  the  pension 

which  they  are  bound  to  pay  to  one  of  the  king's  clerks  by  reason  of  the 

new  creation  of  the  next  abbot.  By  K. 

Dec.  5.  Pardon  to  Edmund  Hastynges,  late  escheator  in  the  county  of  York, 

York.         of  all  fines,  amercements,  issues,  forfeitures,  debts,  accounts  and  arrears 

due  from  him  to  the  king  and  all  actions  for  the  same.  By  K. 

Dec.  8.  Grant,  during  pleasure,  to  James,  earl  of  Douglas,  of  the  custody  of 

York.        the   king's   castle   of   Cragfergns   in   Ireland,  with   the  accustomed   fees. 

[Feedera.]  By  K. 

Dec.  8.  Grant  for  life  to  the  king's  servitor  Robert  Smyth,  groom  of  the  cellar 

York.        of  the   king's  household,  ot  the  office  of  the  parkership  of  the  park  of 

Chyltyrne,  co.  Wilts,  late  of  Henry  Bewford,  rebel,  commonly  called  duke 

of  Somerset,  and  in  the  king's  hands  by  his  forfeiture,  with  the  accustomed 

fees.  '     By  K. 

Dec.  11.  Inspeximus  and  confirmation  to  the  mayor  and  citizens  of  Lincoln  and 

Doncaster.  the  inhabitants  of  the  city,  suburbs  and  precinct  of  letters  patent  dated 
13  March,  25  Henry  VI.  granting  licence  to  them  1o  acquire  lauds,  tene- 
ments and  rents  to  the  yearly  value  of  120/.  and  acquitting  them  for  40 
years  from  payment  of  tenths  and  fifteenths. 

For  10/.  paid  in  the  hanaper. 

July  5.  Pardon  to  the  good  men  and  commonalty  of  the  connty  of  Chester, 

^estmimter.  in  consideration  of  the  confirmation  by  the  king  of  a  charter  of  Bichard  II. 
touching  certain  liberties  granted  to  them,  of  all  offences  committed  by 
them  before  4  July  last  against  the  statutes  of  liveries  of  cloths  and  caps ; 
grant  to  them  that  no  writ  of  privy  seal  shall  run  within  the  county  at 
the  suit  of  any  person  of  the  county  except  in  case  it  seem  necessary  to  the 
king  or  council,  and  only  when  the  prosecutor  has  exhibited  a  bill  contain- 
ing his  whole  complaint  and  found  security  for  satisfaction  to  the  defendant 
if  he  fail  to  prove  his  suit;    pardon  to  them  of  all  securities  of  peace 

T  2 


292  CALENDAR  OF  PATENT  ROLLS, 


1463.  Membrane  11 — cont. 

forfeited  by  thein  before  4  July  and  all  that  pertains  to  the  king  in  this 
matter,  except  the  security  forfeited  by  Hamo  Massy  of  Fodyogton,  co. 
Chester,  esquire,  of  which  an  assignment  exists,  and  certain  securities 
forfeited  by  persons  who  have  been  convicted ;  and  pardon  to  such  of  them 
as  failed  to  appear  personally  before  the  king  at  a  certain  day  to  take  the 
the  order  of  knighthood ;  provided  that  the  present  pardon  do  not  extend 
to  John  Waleys  late  of  Thorneton,  co.  Devon,  esquire,  Roger  Thorp  late  of 
London,  esquire,  William  Phelipp  clLxos  Ferrour  late  of  London,  esquire, 
Edward  lliomefourgh  late  of  Carlile,  'gentilman,'  John  Amyas  late  of 
Walton,  CO.  York, '  gentilman,'  Nicholas  Rigby  of  Kyngeston  on  Thames, 
CO.  Surrey, '  yoman,'  and  Thomas  Sergeauntson  late  of  York,  any  persons 
attainted  of  high  treason  by  authority  of  Parliament  at  Westminster, 
4  November,  1  Edward  IV.  or  any  rebels  in  Scotland  or  Fraui^e,  adherents 
of  Henry  VI.  By  K. 

Dec.  20.  Grant,  during  pleasure,  to  the  king's  brother  Richard,  duke  of  Gloncester, 

Westminster,   of  all  castles,  lordships,  manors,  lands,  rents,  and  services  late  of  Henry 

Beauford,  late  duke  of  Somerset,  in  England  and  Wales  and  elsewhere, 

in  the  king's  hands  by  reason  of  his  forfeiture,  without  rendering  anything 

to  the  king.  By  p.s. 

Dec.  12.         Grant    for    life   to    the    king's    chaplain  Master  Thomas   Saintguste, 
Pontefract.    doctor  of  music,  that  he  be  master  of   the  king's  college  in  Cambridge 

commonly  called   Uho  kynges  halle,'   with  all  profits   and  emoluments. 

\F<Bdera:\  By  K. 

Dec.  12.  Grant  to  the  king's  kinsman  Richard,  earl  of  Warwick   and  Salisbury, 

Pontefract.    of  the  custody  of  the  temporalities  of  the  bishopric  of  Carlisle,  in  the  king's 

hands  by  the  death  of  Master  John  Eyngescote,  late  bishop,  during  void- 

ance  or  so  long  as  they  remain  in  the  king's  hands,  without  rendering 

anything  to  the  king.     [FoBdera.']  By  K. 

1464. 

Jan.  24.  Grant  for  life  to  the  king's  servitor  John  Cleton,  yeoman  of  the  king's 

Northampton,  privy  cellar  {sellaiii  pro  are  nostro)y  for  his  gpod  service  to  the  king 
and  his  father,  of  the  office  of  chief  builer  of  Ireland  with  the  accus- 
tomed fees  in  the  same  manner  as  William  Welles,  knight,  now  deceased, 
had.  By  p.s.  [1320.] 

Jan.  20.         Presentation  of  Thomas  Tuson  to  the  parish  church  of  Gyselham,  in  the 
Westminster,  diocese  of  Norwich. 

Membrane  10. 

* 

Jan.  17.         Pardon  to  William  Pestell,  escheator  in   the  counties   of  Surrey  and 
Northampton.  Sussex,  of  all  offences  committed  by  him  and  all  forfeitures,  fines,  amerce- 
ments, issues,  debts,  accounts,  and  arrears  due  from  him  to  the  king.    By  K. 

Jan.  17.  General  pardon  to  John  Bumstede  of  Braughing,  co.  Hertford, '  hus- 

Northampton.  bondman,'  for  all  offences  committed  by  him  before  2  January.  By  p.s. 

Jan.  16.  Whei^as  the  king  granted  to  John  Fogge,   knight,  Ircasurer  of  the 

Northampton,  household,  the  manor  of  Hothfeld,  co.  Kent,  late  of  Thomas,  late  lord  of 
Roos,  by  letters  patent  dated  6  May,  2  Edward  IV ;  the  custody  of  the 
manors  of  Plete  alias  Ratbourgh,  co.  Kent,  Cawropes,  co.  Cambridge,  and 
Langdon  and  Crustewhich,  co.  Essex,  late  of  John  de  Veer,  late  earl  of 
Oxford,  by  letters  patent,  dated  12  July,  2  Edward  IV ;  the  manor  of 
Aswerdby,  co.  Lincoln,  lately  belonging  to  William  Tailboys,  by  letters 
patent,  dated  22  January,  2  Edward  IV;  and  the  custody  of  the  king's 
castle  of  Ronchestre,  co.  Kent,  by  letters  patent  dated  14  April,  1  Edward 
IV ;  and  by  pretext  of  the  said  letters  patent  the  said  John  has  received 
the  issues  of  the  abote,  but  fears  lest  owing  to  a  diversity  of  legal  opinion 


3  EDWABD  IV.— Part  II,  293 


1464,  Membrane  10 — cont, 

the  letters  may  be  invalid ;  the  king  now  pardons  to  him  all  the  said  issues 
and  all  debts  and  accounts  due.  By  K. 

Jan.  17.  Grant  for  life  to  the  king's  servant  William  Porter,  one  of  the  yeomen  of 

Kortbampton.  the  crown,  of  6id.  daily  for  his  fee  from  4  March,  1   Edward  IV.  from  the 

fee  farm  of  the  town  of  Northampton,  in  lieu  of  a  like  grant  to  him  of  6//. 

daily   by   letters   patent  dated    19  October,   I    Edward  IV,  surrendered 

because  invalid.  By  p.s. 

Mandate  in  pursuance  to  the  bailifis  of  the  town. 

Jan.  17.  Manumission  of  Richard  Dolman  son  of  William  Dolman,  a  bondman  of 

Northampton,  the  king  of  his  manor  of  Cory  Malet,  parcel  of  the  duchy  of  Cornwall,  in 

the  county  of  Somerset,  and  all  his  issue  (jsequelam).  By  p.s. 

Jan.  IB.         Grant  for  life  to  the  king's  servitor  William  Smyth,  one  of  the  yeomen 

Northampton,  of  the  office  of  porter  of  the  household,  of  the  office  of  keeper  of  the  king's 

castle  of  Fodryn5;hey,  with  the  accustomed  fees  from  the  issues  of  the 

king's  lordship  of  Fodrynghey.  By  p.s. 

Jan.  19.  General  pardon  to  Humphrey  Willy ngham  late  of  Molyngton,  co.  Oxford, 

Northampton,  esquire,  alicts  of  Molyngton,  ca.  Warwick,  *  gentilman,'  a/ta«  of  MiUecombe, 

CO.  Oxford,  esquire.  By  K. 

Jan.  20.  Pardon  to  William  Johnson  of  Barton  on   Umbre,  co.  Lincoln,  for  all 

Northampton,  murders  and  felonies  committed  by  him  before  30  December.  By  p.s. 

Jan.  19.  Grant  to  Walter  Maun  tell,  king's  esquire,  of  100/.  from  the  first  moneys 

NorthamptoD.  from  the  issues  of  the  county  of  Northampton.  By  K. 

Jan.  19.  Grant  for  life  to  Walter  Haliday,  marshal  of  the  king's  minstrels,  of 

Northampton.  IQ  marks  yearly  from  Easter  last  from  the  fee  farm  of  the  manor  of  Berton 

by  Gloucester  and  the  king's  weir  in  his  manor  of  Minstreworthe  and  the 

middle  weir  of  Denne,  at  the  hands  of  the  abbot  and  convent  of  St.  Peter's 

Gloucester.     [Foedera.'}  By  p.s. 

Mandate  in  pursuance  to  the  abbot  and  convent. 

Grant  for  life  to  William  Clyff,  one  of  the  king's  minstrels,  of  10  marks 
yearly  as  above.  By  p,8. 

Mandate  in  pursuance  to  the  said  abbot  and  convent. 

Jan.  18.  Grant  for  life  to  Thomas   Cawthorn,  one  of  the  king's  minstrels,  of 

Northampton.  10  marks  yearly  from  Easter  last  from  the  fee  farm  of  the  hundred  of 
Budeston,  co.  Gloucester,  at  the  hands  of  the  said  abbot  and  convent 

By  p.s. 

Mandate  in  pursuance  to  the  said  abbot  and  convent. 

Jan.  17.         Grant,  during  pleasui'e,  to  the   king's  servitor  William  Colyngbourn, 

Northampton,  serjennt  of  the  pantry,  of  I  he  custody  of  the  manor  of  Cloford,  co.  Somerset, 

lately  belonging  to  John  Flory,  traitor,  in  the  king's  hands  by  his  rebellion 

and  forfeiture,  with  the  profits  from  the  day  of  forfeiture,  without  rendering 

anything  to  the  king.  By  K. 

Membrane  9. 

Jan.  24.  Grant  for  life  to  William  Griffith,  king's  esquire,  one  of  the  marshals  of 

Northampton,  the  king's  hall,  of  the  oflice  of  constable  of  the  king's  castle  of  Dublin  in 

Ireland,  void  by  the  death  of  Christopher  Saint  Laureticci  knight,  lord  of 

Howe,  with  the  accustomed  fees  from  the  issues  of  the  lordship  of  Cromly 

and  Chapel  Isode  and  all  other  profits.  By  p.s. 

1463. 

July  6.  Grant  to  Rol>ert,  the  prior,  and  the  convent  of  St.  Swithun,  Winchester, 

Westminster,  that  in  future  they  shall  not  be  compelled  to  find  any  corrody  or  sus- 
tenance in  their  house  for  any  person  or  persons  at  the  king's  request  or 
command.  By  p.s. 


294  CALENDAR  OF  PATENT  ROLLS. 


1464.  Membrane  9 — cont. 

Jan.  31.         Appointment  for  life  of  the  king's  kinsman  John,  earl  of  Worcestei*,  as 

Westminster,  chancellor  of  Ireland,  with  all  accustomed  fees  and  profits,  in  the  same 

manner  as  William  Welles,  knight,  late  chancellor.  By  p.s. 

Feb.  1.  Pardon  to  John  Grene,  e&quire,  late  escheator  in  the  counties  of  Kent  and 

Westmiuster.  Middlesex,  of  all  offences  committed  by  him  and  all  debts,  accounts,  arrears^ 

issues,  forfeitures  and  amercements  due  from  him  to  the  king.  By  p.s. 

Feb.  6.  Pardon  to  Philip  Harneys,  esquire,  late  master  of  the  king's  ordnance,  of 

Westminster,  all  offences  committed  by  him  and  all  debts,  accounts  and  arrears  due  from 

him  to  the  king.  By  p.s. 

Feb.  10.  Revocation  of  the  protection  with  clause  volumus,  for  one  year,  granted 
Westminster.  6  November  by  letters  patent  to  William  Denton,  citizen  and  mercer  of 
London,  as  going  on  the  king's  service  in  the  company  of  Walter  Biounte, 
king's  knight,  treasurer  of  the  town  of  Calais,  on  the  safe-custody,  defence 
and  victualling  of  the  town  and  the  marches  adjacent,  because  he  delays  in 
the  county  of  Essex  as  John  Clay,  knight,  sheriff  of  the  county,  has 
certified. 

Jan.  24.  Grant  to  John  Colt,  in  consideration  of  his  having  bought  victuals  within 

Northampton,  the  county  of  Noithumberland  for  the  expenses  of  the  household  when  the 
king  was  last  expected  at  the  city  of  York  to  the  sum  of  51/.  Sd,  out  of  his  own 
moneys,  of  the  revenues  from  certain  lands  lately  belonging  to  Balph  Grey, 
knight,  traitor,  in  the  king's  hands  by  his  rebellion  and  forfeiture,  in  the  said 
county,  viz.  certain  lands  in  Sagefeld,  of  the  yearly  value  of  13#.  a  town  by 
Sagefeld  called  Elsthope,  of  the  yearly  value  of  9/.  13^.  4(1,  the  farm  of 
Newland  in  Wardale,  of  the  yearly  value  of  6/.  6s.  Id.  the  farm  of  Conset,  of 
the  yearly  value  of  30^.  the  farm  of  Wedstrode,  of  the  yearly  value  of  5s.^ 
and  two  closes  of  pasture  by  the  lordship  of  Wykeham,  of  the  yearly  value  of 
26*.  Hd,  until  he  be  fully  satisfied.  By  p.s.  [1324]. 

March  2.         Pardon  to  John  Laneman  late  of  Havesasshe,  co.  Devon,  alias  of  Knyght- 

brigge,   co.   Middlesex,   ^yoman,'   for  all  trespasses,    offences,  fines  and 

amercemeikts.  By  K. 

1453^  Membrane  8. 

July  14.  Appointment,  during  pleasure,  of  Richard  Bede  as  controller  of  the  great 

Westminster,  and  petty  custom,  the  subsidy  of  wools,  hides  and    wool-fells,   and  the 

subsidy  of  the  3«.  in  the  tun  and  the  \2d,  in  the  pound  in  the  port  of 

Briggev.'ater  and  ports  and  places  adjacent,  provided  that  lie  execute  the 

office  in  person,  with  the  custody  of  one  part  of  the  coket  seal. 

By  bill  of  the  treasurer. 

The  like  of  the  following   in  the  ports  named  and  ports  and  places 
adjacent : — 
July  11.  William  Hartishorn  in  the  port  of  Pole. 

Westminster.  By  bill  of  the  treasurer. 

July  14.  Edmund  Wydew  ell  in  the  port  of  Jernemuth. 

Westminster.  By  bill  of  the  treasurer. 

July  9.  William  Grey  in  the  port  of  Ipswich.  By  bill  of  the  treasurer. 

Westminster. 

William  Kny  vet  in  the  port  of  Boston.  By  bill  of  the  treasurer. 

.    July  7.  Grant,  during  pleasure,  to  Robert  Shorediche  of  the  ofiUce  of  tronage  and 

Westminster,  pesage  in  the  port  of  Kyngeston  on  Hull  and  ports  and  phices  adjacent, 

receiving  the  accustomed  fees.  By  bill  of  the  treasurer. 

The   like   to  the  following  in  the  ports  named  and  ports  and  places 
adjacent : — 
July  14.  William  Baldry  in  the  port  of  Ipswich. 

Westminster.  By  bill  of  the  treasurer. 


3  EDWARD  IV.— Pakt  II.  295 


1463*  Membrane  8 — cotU. 

July  13.  Ralph  Salysburj  in  the  port  of  Boston. 

WestmiDster.  By  bill  of  the  treasurer. 

Nov.  21.  John  Letsam  in  the  port  of  Lynne. 

Westminster.  By  bill  of  the  treasurer. 

Jul}'  7.  Appoiotmenty  during  pleasure,  of  Robert  Tanfeld  as  controller  of  the 

Westminster,  great  custom  and  the  subsidy  of  wools,  hides  and  wool-fells  in  the  port  of 
London  and  ports  and  places  adjacent,  receiving  the  accustomed  fees,  pro- 
vided that  he  execute  the  ofHoe  in  person,  with  the  custody  of  one  part  of 
the  coket  seal.  By  bill  of  the  treasurer. 

The  like  of  Thomas  Mauncell  as  controller  of  the  subsidy  of  the  Ss,  in 
the  tun  and  the  I2d,  in  the  pound  in  the  same  port  and  ports  and  places 
adjacent,  as  above.  By  bill  of  the  treasurer. 

Oct.  23.  Gh^nt^  for  life,  to  the   king's  orator  William  I..eche,   chaplain,   of  the 

Westminster,   custody  of  the  hospital  of  St.  John  Baptist  with  the  free  chapel  of  St.  George 

annexed  in   Frank vili  within   the   liberty  of  the   town   of  Shrovesbury, 

void  by  the  death  of  WiUiam  Shelfe.  By  p.8.  [1285]. 

14iQ4i^  Mbmbranb  7. 

Feb.  6.  Pardon  to  Thomao  Blount,  esquire,  late  sheriff  of  the  county  of  Lincoln, 

WestuiiostHT.  of  all  offences  committed  by  him  and  all  escapes  of  felons  and  all  debts, 

accounts,  arrears,  issues,  forfeitures,  fines  and  amercements  due  from  him 

to  the  king.  By  p.s. 

Feb.  9.  Licence,  for  5  marks  paid  in  the  hanaper,  for  William  Brocas  to  grant 

Westniin&ter.  the  manor  of  Wycle,  held  in  chief,  with  the  exception  of  one  acre  of  land,  to 
John  Brocas  his  son  and  Anne  his  wife  and  the  heirs  of  their  bodies,  with 
remainder  to  himself  and  his  heirs. 

Feb.  12.  Pardon  to  William  Willughby,  knight — impleaded  by  the  name  of 
WestDimster.  William  Willughby,  late  of  Boston,  co.  Lincoln,  esquire  of  108/. 
which  William  Taylboys,  esquire,  recovered  from  him  in  the  court  of 
Henry  VI.  at  Westminster,  and  which  belong  to  the  king  because  the  said 
William  Taylboys  was  attainted  of  high  treason  by  authority  of  Parliament 
at  Westminster,  4  November,  1  Edward  IV.  By  p.s. 

Feb.  10.  Pardon  to  Robert  Ck)rbet  lato  of  Aston,  co.  Suffolk,  knight,  alias  late  of 

Westminster.  Wombruge,  co.  Salop,  knight,  of  his  outlawry  in  London  and  the  county  of 
Salop  for  not  appearing  before  John  Pry  sot  and  his  fellows,  justices  of  the 
Bench  of  the  late  king,  to  answer  John  Kyrton,  citizen  and  mercer  of 
London,  tou<?hing  u  debt  of  8/.  6;.  Sd.^  and  to  satisfy  Ralph  Asshehurst  of 
10/.  6«.  8ri.  which  he  recovered  against  him  before  the  said  justices  and 
1 3«.  4ef.  damages,  he  having  surrendered  to  the  Flete  prison  and  satisfied 
the  f>aid  Ralph,  tis  Robert  Danby,  chief  justice  of  the  Bench,  has  certified. 

Feb.  11.  Grant  for  life  to  Philip  Laton  of  the  custody  of  the  king's  warren  called 

Wentminster.    <  Flete,'   and   his   park   within    his   manor   and  lordship  of  Watlyngton, 

CO.  Oxford,  receiving  2c/.   daily  from  the  issues  of  the  manor  and  lordship, 

with  all  other  profits.  By  p.B. 

Feb.  23.         General  pardon  to  Henry  Sheldon  of  the  county  of  Stafford,  'yoman,' 
Westminster,  for  all  offences  committed  by  him  before  7  November  last.  By  p.s. 

1463. 

June  1.  Licence  for  Richard  Neville,  earl  of  Warwick  and  Salisbury,  and  Anne, 

Westminster,  countess  of  Warwick,  his  consort,  sister  and  heir  of  Henry,  late  duke  of 
Warwick,  to  grant  in  mortmain  by  a  fine  to  be  levied  in  the  king's  court 
lands,  tenements,  rents  and  services  to  the  yearly  value  of  40/.  whether 
held  in  chief  or  otherwise  to  the  dean  and  chapter  of  the  collegiate  church 
of  St.  Mary,  Warwick,  for  the  maintenance  of  divine  service  iii  the  church 
and  prayer  for  the  good  estate  of  the  king  and  for  his  soul  after  death  and 


296  CALENDAR  OF  PATENT  ROLLS, 


1463.  Membrane  7~c(m^. 

the  souls  of  others  specified  in  the  last  will  of  Richard  de  Bello  Campo, 
knight,  late  earl  of  Warwick,  father  of  the  said  Anne  and  Henry,  provided 
that  it  appear  bj  inquisition  that  it  is  not  to  the  prejudice  of  anyone. 

By  p.s  and  for  50/.  paid  in  thehanaper. 

Licence  for  the  same  to  grant  in  mortmain  as  above  lands,  tenements, 
rents  and  services  to  the  yearly  value  of  12  marks  to  the  abbot  and  convent 
of  Teukesbury  to  find  a  chaplain  to  celebrate  mass  in  the  abbey  daily  for 
the  good  estate  of  the  king  and  for  his  soul  after  death  and  for  the  soul  of 
'  the  said  late  earl,  and  to  keep  the  anniversary  of  the  latter  according  to  his 
ordinance  in  his  will.  By  p.s.  and  for  10/.  paid  in  the  hanaper. 

Licence  for  the  same  to  grant  in  mortmain  as  above  lands,  tenements, 
rents  and  services  to  the  yearly  value  of  20  marks  to  the  master  of  the 
chaplains  of  the  chantry  of  St.  Mary,  Elmeley,  co.  Worcester,  to  find 
an  additional  chaplain  to  celebrate  divine  service  for  the  good  estate  of  the 
king  and  for  his  soul  after  death  and  for  the  soul  of  the  said  late  eai'l,  and 
in  augmentation  of  divine  service  there. 

By  p.s.  and  for  16/.  7s,  paid  in  the  hanaper.  ^ 

Membrane  6.  I 

Dec.  1.  Grant  to  the  king's  servitor  John  Sturgeon,  esquire,  and  his  heirs  and 

Westminster,  a^sigas  of  a  moiety  of  the  manor  of  Gkitesbury  alias  Gaddesbury   in  ' 

Braughyng,  co.  Hertford,  and  a  moiety  of  a  messuage,  two  tofts,  160  acres  ' 

of  arable  land,  40  acres  of  pasture,  12  acres  of  meadow,  and  8  acres  of  wood  ! 

^  called  ^  Maisters '  in  Westmyll  in  the  same  county,  to  hold  from  25  June,  ' 

2  Edward  TV.  during  the  life  of  Henry  Elve<len  alias  Elvynden  late  of  ' 

Suthwerk,  co.  Surrey,  *  gentUman,'  by  a  red  rose  at  Midsummer.  The  said 
moieties  came  inio  the  king's  hands  by  the  outlawry  of  the  said  Henry  on 
an  appeal  of  the  death  of  a  man  at  the  suit  of  John  Rokley  and  are  worth 
16/.  yearly.  By  K. 

1464. 

Feb.  7.  Revocation  of  a  protection  with  clause  volumus,  for  .one  year,  lately  granted 

Westminster,  by  letters  patent  to  David  ap  John  of  Swansey,  *  gentilman,'  to  stay  on  the 
king's  service  in  the  company  of  John  Wodde,  esquire,  victualler  of  the 
king's  castle  and  town  of  Calais,  on  the  safe-custody,  defence,  and  victual- 
ling of  the  same  and  the  marches,  because  he  delays  in  the  city  and  suburbs 
of  London,  as  Robert  Basset  and  Thomas  Muschamp,  sheriffs,  have 
certified. 

Feb.  6.  Presentation  of  Henry  Cranebroke  to  the  church  of  Westilbury  in  the 

'\Vestminstcr.  diocese  of  London,  void  by  the  resignation  of  Roger  Vetton,  late  parson. 

Feb.  6.  Inspeximus  and  confirmation    to  the  nuns  of   St.  Michael,  Staunford,  of 

Westminster,  letters  patent  dated  24  November,  3  [rectius  4]  Richard  II.  inspecting  and 
confirming  a  charter  dated  at  Westminster,  20  March,  33  Edward  I.  [  Charter 
Roily  33  Edward  /.  No.  54,]  inspecting  and  confirming  the  following : — 

1.  A  charter  of  Henry  11.  dated  at  Ciai'endon.      \ MonasticonJl 

2.  A  charter  of  John  datM  18  January  [1201].   \Rot,  Cart.  p.  101.] 

3.  A  charter  dated  18  November,  12  Henry  III.  . 

For  \  mark  paid  in  the  hanaper. 

Feb.  5.  General  pardon  to  Richard  Torell  late  of  Gloucester,  *  yoman,'  alias 

Westminster.  Richard  Kerver  late  of  London,  *  yoman,'  alias  Richard  Tirell.  By  p.s. 

Feb.  8.  Appointment  of  William,  archbishop  of  York,  to  attend  in  the  king's 

Westminster,  place  at  York  on  20   February   next,   to   which   day   Parliament  stands 

prorogued,  and  to  prorogue  and  adjourn  the  same  to  5  May  next  at  the 

same  city.  By  K. 

Feb.  8.  Pardon  to  Arnold  Snoryng  late  of  Hakford,  co.  Norfolk,  *  gentilman,*  of 

Westminster,  his  outlawry  in  the  county  of  Norfolk  for  not  fippearing  before  John  Piysot 


3  EDWARD  IV.— Part  II.  297 


1464*  Membrane  6 — cont. 

and  his  fellows,  jastices  of  the  Bench  of  the  late  king,  to  satisfy  the  late 
king  for  his  ransom  for  a  trespass  committed  by  him  aguinst  Thomas 
Martyn  and  for  another  trespass  committed  by  him  against  John  Goold,  he 
having  snrrendered  to  the  Flete  prison  and  satisfied  the  said  Thomas  and 
John  of  their  damages,  as  appears  by  certificate  of  Robert  Danby,  knight, 
chief  justice. 

1463. 

July  5.  Grrant  for  life  to  Robert  Grey,  one  of  the  king^s  minstrels,  for  his  good 

Westminster,  service  to  the  king's  father  and  the  king,  of  a  tenement  or  brewhouse 
called  *  le  Lambe '  in  Distafiane,  London,  to  the  value  of  40«.  yearly,  which 
John  Biakency,  esquire,  and  John  Goumey  lately  had  of  the  grant  of 
Henry  VI.  by  letters  patent,  having  come  into  his  hands  by  virtue  of  an 
act  of  resumption  in  Parliament  at  Westminster,  9  July,  33  Henry  VI. 
and  which  is  now  in  the  king's  hands  but  through  its  ruinous  condition 
has  been  unoccupied  for  a  long  time,  to  hold  without  rendering  anything 
to  the  king.  By  p.s. 

1464. 

Feb.  6.  Grant  for  life  to  Thomas  Frank  of  the  office  of  one  of  the  king's  seijcants- 

Westminster.  at>arms,  with  wages  of  \2d.  daily  from  the  farm  and  issuer  of  the  city  of 

London  and  the  county  of  Middlesex  and  a  livery  of  the  suit  of  other 

serjeants-at-arms  yearly  at  the  great  wardrobe.  By  p.s. 

1463. 

March  20.  Grant  to  tlie  free  men  of  the  mistery  or  art  of  *  Iremongers  *  of  the  city 
Westminster,  and  suburbs  of  London  that  they  shall  form  one  body  and  incorporate 
communUy  of  a  master,  two  wardens  or  guardians,  and  the  commonalty  of 
the  mistery ;  and  appointment  of  Richard  Flemmyng,  alderman,  &s  master 
and  Nicholas  Marchall  and  Robert  Tokc  as  wardens  or  guardians.  They 
shall  have  a  perpetual  succession,  power  of  pleading  and  being  impleaded, 
and  a  common  seal ;  and  shall  make  statutes  and  ordinances  from  time  to 
time  for  the  governance  of  the  men  of  the  mystery,  and  shall  yearly  elect 
a  master  and  two  wardens.  And  they  shall  be  capable  of  acquiring  in 
mortmain  lands,  rents  and  other  possessions  to  the  value  of  10  marks 
yearly.  [Printed  in  English  in  Herbert's  History  of  the  Livery  Com- 
panies, vol.  ii.  p.  623.]  By  p.s.  and  for  20/.  paid  in  the  hanaper. 

2,4^4^^  Membrane  5. 

Jan.  18.  Grant  for  life  to  Robert  Grey,  one  of  ths  king's  minstrels,  for  his  good 

Northampton  service  to  the  king's  father  and  the  king,  of  10  marks  yearly  from  Easter 
last  from  the  farm  of  the  town  of  Mahncsbury  with  three  hundreds  per- 
taining to  it  in  the  county  of  Wilts  at  the  hands  of  the  abbot  and  convent 
of  Malmesbury.  By  p.s. 

Mandate  in  pursuance  to  the  said  abbot  and  convent. 

Jan.  )0.         Grant  for  life  to  William  Cristyn,  one  of  the  king's  silent  minstrels,  of 
Westminster.    10  marks  yearly  from   Easter  last  from  the   fee  farm   of  the  town  of 
Cambridge.  By  p.s. 

Mandate  in  pursuance  to  the  bailiffs  of  the  town. 

Jan.  18.  Grant  for  life  to  Thomas  Grene,  king's  minstrel,  of  10  mai*ks  yearly 

Northampton,  from  Easter  last  from  the  fee  farm  of  the  city  of  Norwich.  By  p.s. 

Mandate  in  pursuance  to  the  sheriffs  or  bailiffs  of  the  city. 

Grant  for  life  to  Robert  Marchall,  king's  minstrel,  of  10  marks  yearly 
from  Easier  last  from  the  fee  farm  of  the  said  city.  By  p.s. 

Mandate  in  pi^rsuance  to  the  said  sheriffs  or  bailiffs. 

Feb.  6.       .  Grant  for  life  to  Margaret  late  the  wife  of  Fulk  Stafford,  esquire,  who 

Westminster,  lately  died  on  the  king's  service,  of  the  third  part  of  the  nuinors  of  Cradeley, 

Oldeswynford,  Hageley,  Gannowe  and  Snodesbury,  co.  Worcester,  with  the 

advowson  of  the  church  of  Oldeswynford,  and  the  manors  •of  Clect^  Mere 


298  CALENDAR  OF  PATENT  ROLLS. 


1464.  Membrane  5 — cont, 

and  Hondesworth,  co.  Stafford,  with  the  adyowttons  of  the  churches  of 
Hondesworth  and  Forton,  co.  Stafford,  which  came  into  the  king's  hands  by 
forfeiture  of  tlames,  late  earl  of  Wiltshire,  and  were  granted  to  the  said 
Fulk  nnd  the  heirs  male  of  his  body  by  letters  patent  dated  20  January, 
1  Edward  IV.  By  p.s. 

Jan.  24.  Confirmation  to  Thomas,  the  abbot,  and  the  convent  of  the  house  and 

Westminster,  church  of  St.  Peter,  Hyde  by  Winchester,  co.  Southampton,  and  William 
Knight,  parson  of  the  church  of  Pevesey,  co.  Wilts,  of  all  their  rights  in 
the  advowson  or  vicarage  of  the  said  church  of  Feuesey,  and  the  annexation 
and  consolidation  of  the  vicarage  to  the  rectoiy,  as  mentioned  below. 
Nicholas  Strode,  late  abbot,  was  seised,  as  were  all  his  predecessors,  of  the 
manor  of  Peuesey  in  his  demesne  as  of  fee  as  in  right  of  his  church,  and 
also  of  the  advowson  of  the  church  of  Peuesey,  and  presented  John  Lay- 
bourue  to  the  same,  and  the  latter  was  instituted  by  Nicholas  Bubbewith, 
late  bishop  of  Salisbury,  ordinary  of  the  place.  And  he  and  all  his  pre- 
decessors, parsons  of  the  church,  were  seised  of  the  advowson  of  the  vicarage 
of  the  church,  and  he  presented  John  Knight  to  the  same,  and  the  latter 
was  instituted  by  William  Askewe,  late  bishop  of  Salisbury.  And  afterwards 
the  vicarage  was  annexed  and  consolidated  to  the  church  with  the  assent  of 
the  said  bishop  and  abbot  and  the  said  John  Laybourne,  parson  of  the 
church,  and  John  Knight,  vicar.      By  p.s.  and  for  20#.  paid  in  the  hanaper. 

Feb.  28.  Grant  to  Anne,  duchess  of  Bukyngham,  late  the  wife  of  Humphrey,  late 

Weistiuioster.  duke  of  Bukyngham,  of  the  custody  of  all  castles,  honours,  manors,  lord- 
ship:!!,  lands  and  other  possessions  of  the  said  late  duke  in  England  and  the 
town  of  Calais  for  seven  years  from  Michaelmas  next,  without  rendering  any- 
thing to  the  king ;  in  consideration  of  the  surrender  of  letters  patent  dated 
15  February,  I  Edward  lY.  granting  to  Thomas,  archbishop  of  Canterbury, 
and  the  said  duchess  the  said  custody  from  the  Annunciation,  2  Edward 
IV.  during  the  minority  of  Henry,  kinsman  and  heir  of  the  said  duke, 
rendering  to  the  king  261/.  19«.  2\d.  yearly;  and  because  they  have  granted 
to  the  king  the  custody  and  marriage  of  the  said  heir,  which  belongs  law- 
fully to  them  as  executors  of  the  will  of  the  said  late  duke.  If  the  said 
heir  die  before  the  said  term  she  shall  hold  the  custody  in  the  same  manner, 
provided  the  next  heir  be  a  minor.  By  p.s. 

Membrane  4. 
1463. 

May  24.  Licence  for  Joan,  the  wife  of  John  Dynham,  knight,  sister  and  heir  of 

Westminster.  Richard  Grevell,  to  enter  freely  into  the  fourth  part  of  the  manor  of  Yel- 
bury,  CO.  Oxford,  with  the  issues  and  profits  from  the  death  of  John  Boure- 
man.  It  appeared  by  an  inquisition  t>iken  on  9  October,  9  Henry  V.  at 
Bloxham,  co.  Oxford,  before  John  Waget,  then  escheator,  that  the  said 
Richard  Grevell  was  seised  in  his  demesne  as  of  fee  of  thi}  said  fouith-  part 
and  demised  it  to  the  said  John  Boureman  for  life  at  a  i*eut  of  10#.  yearly, 
and  that  it  w&s  held  of  Humphrey,  then  earl  of  Stafford,  a  minor,  by 
knight  service,  and  that  there  were  in  it  a  virgate  of  land,  and  an  enclosure 
containing  4  acres  of  laud,  of  the  yearly  value  of  6«.  %d, ;  and  that  the  said 
Richard  died  on  15  September  and  the  said  Joan  was  his  heir  and  was  then 
of  the  a^e  of  11  years.  And  she  has  represented  that  the  said  rent  has 
been  in  the  hands  of  Henry  V.  and  Henry  YI.  and  is  now  in  the  hands  of 
the  king,  and  that  the  said  carl  long  since  had  livery  of  his  lands,  and  that 
the  said  John  Boureman  died  on  20  Octobei",  12  Henry  VI.  By  K. 

1464. 

Jan.  18.  Licence  for  John,  earl  of  Oxford,  son   and  heir  of  John,  late  earl  of 

Wodtmiuster.  Oxford,  who  is  of  full  age,  to  enter  freely  into  all  castles,  manors,  lordships, 

lands  and  other  possessions  which  his  &ther  held  and  which  now  belong 


3  EDWARD  IV.— Pabt  II.  299 


J^|jg4  Membrane  4 — cont, 

to  himself,  without  proof  of  his  age  or  other  formality,  with  all  profits  from 
Michaelmas  last.  By  K. 

Jan.  12.  On  12  July,  2  Edward  IV.  by  letters  patent  the  king  granted  to  Gerard 
Westminster,  de  la  Hay,  one  of  the  clerks  of  the  Exchequer,  and  Richard  Hamond  the 
cutfiody  of  the  manors  of  Tuderly  and  Lokerley,  co.  Southampton  to  hold 
for  seven  years  from  Easter  thea  last  past ;  and  on  3 1  January  last  by 
letters  patent  he  granted  the  said  manors  for  life  to  John  Rede,  one  of  the 
yeomen  of  the  crown,  by  the  name  of  the  manor  of  Quenecourte  with  its 
appurtenances  lying  in  the  parish  of  Estoderley,  co.  Southampton,  to  the 
value  of  221,  yearly.  And  the  said  John  complained  that  he  could  not 
receive  the  issues  but  that  the  said  Gerard  and  Richard  prevented  him 
under  colour  of  the  first  letters  patent,  the  manors  being  the  same  but 
known  by  difierent  names,  and  prayed  that  the  first  letters  should  be 
revoked.  The  king  on  '6  November  last  ordered  the  sheriffs  of  London  to 
summon  the  said  Gerard  and  Richard  before  him  in  Chancery  on  the  quin- 
zaine  of  St.  Hilary  to  show  cause  why  the  letters  should  not  be  revoked, 
and  they  returned  that  they  had  summoned  them  by  Thomas  Kyrtou, 
Richard  Grene,  Robert  Orcheyerd  and  John  Sherde,  good  men  of  their 
bailiwick,  but  at  the  said  time  the  said  Gerard  and  Richard  did  not  appear. 
And  accordingly  by  the  advice  of  the  king's  justices  and  others  of  liis 
council  the  said  letters  patent  to  the  said  Gerard  and  Richard  were  revoked 
and  annulled. 

Feb.  20.  Grant  for  life  to  John  Nyghiyngale,  keeper  of  the  king's  park  of  Clyf 

Westminftter.  within  bis  forest  of  Rokyngham,  co.'  Northampton,  of  the  herbage  and 

pannage  in  the  said  park  from  Easter  last,  without  rendering  anything  to 

the  king.  By  p.s. 

24g3^  Membranes  3  and  2. 

Dec.  7.  Inspeximus  and  confirmation  to  the  dean  and  chapter  of  the  cLurcli  of 

York.         St.  Peter,  York,  of  the  following  : — 

(1.)  A  charter  dated  at  Westminster,  1  February,  3  Richard  II.  \^Charter 
Roily  3  Richard  II,  No,  12],  ins{>ecting  and  confirming  the 
following : — 

(1.)  A  charter  dated  at  York,  23  June,   1  Edward  III.  {Charter 

Roily  1    Edioard  III,  No.  36],  inspecting  ond  confirming  a 

charter  dated  at  London,  29  September,  5  Edward  II.  [  Charter 

Roll,  5  Edward  If,   No,  37],    inspecting  and  confirming  a 

charter  dated  at  Kenyngton,  20  May,  33  Edward  I.  [Charter 

Roily  33  Edward  /.  No,  31],    inspecting    and  confirming  a 

charter  dated  at  Portsmouth,  5  July,  37  Henry  III.  inspecting 

and  confirming  with  additions  a  charter  of  Henry  I.  dated  at 

Winchester.     [Monasticony  vol,  vi,  p.  1180.] 

(2.)  Letters   patent  dated    16  June,  37  Edward  III.  being  an 

exemplification  of  lettera  patent  dated  15  June,  10  Edward  II. 

(2.)  A  charter  dated  at  Westminster,  24  July,  17  Richard  II.  {Charter 

Roily  15-17  Richard  II,  No,  12.]  For  20/.  paid  in  the  hanaper. 

j^^g4  Membrane  2"  cont. 

Jan.  5.  Licence  for  the  prior  and  convent  of  St.  Augustine's  without  the  walls  of 

Weftmin«ter.  Canterbury,  to  elect  nn  obbot  in  the  place  of  James,  deceased.  By  p.s. 

1463. 

Nov.  14.         Grant  to  Cicely  late  the  wife  of  Thomas  Kiryell,  knight,  and  executrix 

Pontefract.     of  his  will,  of  the  custody  of  all  the  possessions  late  of  William  Daubeney 

of  Suthpederton,  co.  Somerset,  esquire,  deceased,  during  the  minority  of 

Giles  his  son  and  heir,  with  the  custody  and  marriage  of  the  latter  without 


300  CALENDAR  OF  PATENT  ROLLS. 


1463.  Membrane  2 — e&ni. 

disparagement^  saving  to  Alice  late  the  wife  of    the  said  William    her 
reasonable  dower ;  and  so  from  heir  to  heir  during  minority.  By  p.8. 

X464.  Membranb  1. 

Feb.  17.  Inspeximus  and  confirmation  of    letters  patent  of   the  king's  mother 

Wcbtmioster.  Cicely,  duchess  of  York,  dated  at  Baynards  Castle,  London,  12  February , 
2  Edward  IV.  being  a  grant  for  life  to  Alexander  Holt,  esquire,  serjeant 
of  her  pantry,  and  Katharine  Holt  his  wife  of  a  tenement  called 
^Fermonnestenement '  within  the  lordship  of  Kyngesnorton,  co.  Worcester, 
lately  held  by  Fulk  Stafford,  esquire,  with  rents,  services,  reversions, 
meadows,  woods,  moors,  rivers  and  their  appurtenances. 

By  p.s.  and  for  6t.  M.  paid  in  the  hanaper. 

.Tan.  24.  Grant  to  the    king's   brother  George,  duke  of  Clarence,  of  the   next 

Northampton,  presentation  to  the  parish  church  of  Tatenhill,  co.  Stafford,  in  the  diocese 

of  Coventry  and  Lichfield.  By  K. 

Feb.  15.  Presentation   of  William   Kelet  to  the  parish  church  of  St.  Andrew 

Westminster.  Uubberde,  London,  in  the  diocese  of  London,  void  by  the  death  of  Thomas 
Hancock,  late  parson. 

Feb.  28.  Presentation  of  Bichard  Morland  to  the  parish  church  of  Wawton  on  the 

Westminster.  Uill;  in  the  diocese  of  Winchester,  void  by  the  resignation  of  Bichard 
Coteler. 

Feb.  22.  Signification  to  pope  Pius  of  the  royal  assent  to  the  election  of  William 

Westminster.  Sellyng,  late  prior  of  the  monastery  of  St.  Augustine  without  the  walls  of 
Canterbury,  as  abbot  of  that  place. 

Feb.  6.  Licence   for  Elizabeth  countess  of  Shrewsbury,  late  the  wife  of  John, 

Westminster,  earl  of  Shrewsbury,  tenant  in  chief,  to  marry  whom  she  pleases  without 

impeachment  or  hindrance.  By  p.8. 

1463. 

July  20.  Grant  to  George,  bishop  of  Exeter,  the  chancellor,  in  repayment  of  the 

Westminster,  sum  of  200/.  lent  by  him  to  the  king,  of  200/.  from  the  sum  of  37,00*3/. 

granted  to  the  king  &s  an  aid  in  tlie  last  Parliament  by  the  commonalty  of 

England,  viz.  from  the  first  moiety  of  tho  said  aid  to  be  paid  by  the 

commonalty  of  Somerset  at  St.  Peter  ad  Vincula.  By  K. 

1464. 

Feb.  20.  Grant  to  the  king's  kinsman  John,  earl  of  Worcester,  and  his  heirs  and 

Westminster,  assigns  of  the  custody  of  all  manors,  lands  and  advowsons  late  of  Bichard 

Burgayn  edicts  Burgoyne  in  the  county  of  Cambridge  during  the  minority 

of  John  his  son  and  heir,  and  the  marriage  of  the  latter,  without  rendering 

anything  to  the  king,  and  so  from  heir  to  heir  during  minority.        By  p.s. 

Feb.  11.  Pardon  to  Bichard  Lee,  late  of  Carleby,  co.  Lincoln,  ^  yoman,*  of  his 
Westminster,  outlawry  in  the  county  of  Rutland  for  not  appearing  with  others  before  the 
king  to  satisfy  him  for  his  ransom  for  certain  trespasses  committed  against 
Henry  VI.  and  Bobert  Danvers,  he  having  surrendered  to  the  Marshalsca 
prison,  as  John  Makham,  knight,  chief  justice  of  the  King's  Bench,  has 
certified. 

1463. 

Nov.  8.  Appointment,  during  pleasure,  of  Thomas  Yonge  as  one  of  the  king's 

Westminster,  serjesnts  at  law,  receiving  the  accustomed  fees. 

July  2.  Whereas  Bobert  Harecourt  of  Stawnton  Harecourt,  co.  Oxford,  knight, 

Westminster.  Tliomas  Erdyngton  of  Barow  upon  Sore,  co.  Leicester,  knight,  William 
Brownyng  of  Milburye,  co.  Dorset,  esquire,  and  Richard  Harecourt  of 
Combe,  co.  Oxford,  esquire,  by  writings  obligatory,  dated  8  June, 
2  Edward  IV.  are  bound  to  the  king  in  133/.  lis,  9|(/.  to  be  paid  at  Easter 
then  following  and  in  133/.  Ws,  9|^.  to  be  paid  at  Christmas,  1463,  the 
king  releases  the  said  William  Brownyng  from  all  liability.  By  K. 


3  EDWARD  IV.— Pakt  II.  301 


1463.  Membrane  1 — cont. 

Juljr  9.  Grant  for  life  to  the  king's  kinsman  George,  bishop  of  Exeter,  from 

Westminster.  Easter,  1  Edward  IV.  in  lieu  of  a  like  grant  by  letters  patent  dated  4  May, 
1  Edward  IV.  surrendered,  of  the  custody  of  the  king's  manor  or  lordship 
of  Chilternelangley,  co.  Hertford,  with  mills,  rents,  vert  and  other  profits, 
reserving  to  the  king  the  office  of  under-parker  of  the  park,  and  250  rabbits 
yearly  for  the  expenses  of  the  household,  rendering  50  marks  8«.  Ad, 
yearly  as  formerly,  and  3#.  4d.  besides ;  with  acquittance  of  repairs  and 
allowance  for  any  annuity  granted  out  of  the  manor.  By  K. 

Vacated  by  surrender  by  the  bishop  with  the  assent  of  the  king  and 
cancelled. 

Membrane  17  d, 

Aug.  9.  Commission  to  Walter  Fetyplace,  mayor  of  Southampton,  John  Spadard, 
Westminster,  mayor  of  Pole,  William  Nedeham,  John  Donne  and  Thomas  Frank,  one  of 
the  king's  serjeants-at-arms,  to  enquire  into  the  complaint  of  John  de 
Spayne  and  John  Mnrtyn,  merchants  of  Spain,  that  when  they  were 
sailing  to  England  under  letters  of  safe- conduct  in  a  ship  of  Spain 
called  le  Marie  of  Spain  with  goods  and  merchandise,  certain  pirates  came 
upon  them  with  a  carvel  of  Pole,  of  which  John  Halle  of  Salisbury  wn^ 
owner  and  victualler,  and  seized  and  detained  their  ship  -with  the  goods  and 
merchandise. 

Aug.  12.  Commission  to  William  Pawelet,  knight,  John  Cheyny  of  Pynne,  Walter 
Westminster.  Balegh,  John  Gyfford,  Kobert  Stowell,  John  Sydenham,  the  younger,  John 
More,  John  Denys,  and  John  Porter  to  enquire  by  oath  cf  good  men  of  tho 
counties  of  Somerset  and  Devon,  touching  all  honours,  castles,  lordships, 
manors,  lands,  rente,  reversions,  fees,  advowsons  and  other  possessions  held 
on  4  March,  1  Edward  IV .  or  afterwards  by  Robert,  late  lord  of  Moly ns, 
alias  Kobert  Hungerford  of  Moleyns,  knight,  attainted  by  authority  of  an 
act  in  Parliament  at  Westminster. ' 


Membrane  \6d. 

July  12.         Commission  to  William  Carrant,  John  Carrant,  John  Sidnam  the  elder, 
Westminster.  John  Sidnam  the  younger,  John  Rogers,  John  Adam  and  the  constables  of 
the  town  of  Mertok,  co.  Somerset,  to  arrest  Thomas  Sherlok  and  John 
Sherlok,  and  bring  them  before  the  king  in  Chancery. 

July  13,         The  like  to  the  mayor  and  bailiffs  of  Sandwich,  the  water  bailiff  of  the 
Westminster,  same  town  and  Richard  George,  one  of  the  king's  serjeants-at-arms,  to 
arrest  Peter  Vatacy  of  Venice,  merchant,  and  bring  him  before  the  king  in 
Chancery. 

July  11.  Commission  of  oyer  and  terminer  to  Edward  Nevill  of  Bergevenny, 
Westminster,  knight,  John  de  Audeley,  knight,  Humphrey  Bourghchier  of  Cromwell, 
knight,  Robert  Danvers,  Walter  Moyle,  John  Fogge,  knight,  John  Scotte, 
knight,  Richard  Culpepir,  William  Haute,  James  Pekham,  Nicholas  Sybill, 
and  John  Rowe  touching  all  trespasses,  conspiracies,  extortions,  oppressions, 
nukinlenances  and  other  offences  committed  by  William  Isle,  late  of  Sun- 
dryssh,  co.  Kent,  ^  gentilman,'  Robert  Drylond  of  Sellyng  by  Faversham, 
CO.  Kent,  *  gentilman,'  and  John  Stokton,  late  of  Sundryssh,  co.  Kent, 
'  yoman,'  within  the  counties  of  Kent,  Surrey,  and  Middlesex. 

,  By  p.s.  and  for  Gs.  Sd.  paid  in  the  hanapcr. 

July  14.         Commission  to  Robert  Mill  to  take  oxen,  muttons,  and  other  victuals 
Westminster,  within  the  county  of  Sussex  and  elsewhere  for  the  king's  fleet. 

July  16.         Commission  to  Richard  Quatermayns,  Richard  Foweler,  Richard  Suthwell, 

Westminster.  Thomas  Grys,  Thomas  Higham,  Reginald  Rous,  William  Hose,  Robert 

Leton,  William  Hasilden,  Alexander  Wode,  John  Rogger,  John  Blake  and 


.302  CALENDAR  OF  PATENT  ROLLS. 


1463,  Membrane  I6d — cant. 

the  sheriffs  of  Norfolk,  Suffolk,  Hertford,  Oxford,  Cambridge  and  Lincoln 
to  enquire  touching  the  lands  and  other  possessions  held  in  the  said 
counties  hj  William,  late  viscount  Beaumount  and  lord  of  Bardolf,  attainted 
of  high  treason  by  authority  of  Pariiament  at  Westminster,  4  November, 
1  Edward  IV. 


\    Membrane  I6d. 

July  17.         Commissiou  to  Simon  Lawelesse,  master  of  a  carvel  called  le  Marie  of 
Westminster,   the  earl  of  Kent,  to  take  mariners  for  the  governance  of  the  same  to  go  to 
sea  with  other  ships  for  the  resistance  of  the  king's  enemies. 
The  like  to  the  following : — 

John  Porter,  master  of  a  ship  called  le  Triniie. 

Richard  Straunge,  master  of  a  ship  called  le  Katerine. 

William  Fetherstone,  master  of  a  ship  called  le  Marie  de  Grace, 

Thomas  William,  master  of  a  carvel  called  le  Blake  Karvell, 

Richard  Barry,  master  of  a  carvel  called  le  George. 

John  Bedford,  master  of  a  ship  called  U  Edmond  of  Suthwold. 

Robert  Bailly,  master  of  a  carvel  called  le  Touke, 

July  25.  Robert  Lightharnes,  master  of  a  ship  called  le  Margarete. 

Westminster.  William  Thomas,  master  of  a  ship  called  le  Greie  Marie. 

Thomas  Philipp,  master  of  a  ship  called  le  Marie  Clyff. 

July  18.         Commission  to  John  Waynflete,  captain  of  a  ship  called  le  Groe  Marie^ 
Westminster,   to  take  archers  and  other  men  for  the  safe  conduct  of  the  same  to  go  to  sea 
with  other  ships  for  the  resistance  of  the  king's  enemies. 

July  21.  Commission  to  Robert  Cotyngham,  master  of  a  ship  called  le  Thomas^  to 

Westminster,  take  mariners  for  the  governance  of  the  same  to  go  to  sea  with  other  ships 
for  the  resistance  of  the  king's  enemies. 

The  like  to  the  following : — 
Richard  Robson,  master  of  a  ship  called  le  XI.  Shore  Nobill. 
Richard  Outlawe,  master  of  a  ship  called  le  Mari  Talbot. 
Robert  Cokke,  master  of  a  carvel  called  le  Peter  of  Worcester. 
John  Palmer,  master  of  a  ship  called  h  James  of  Worcester. 
Clement  Johnson,  master  of  a  ship  called  le  John  of  Worcester. 
Robert  Trewelove,  master  of  a  barge  called  le  Barge  Worsle. 
Jenycot  de  Burdeuz,  master  of  a  balinger  called  le  John  Colys. 

' ,  master  of  a  barge  (ialled  le  Barge  Durns. 

Robert  Spaldyng,  serjeant-at-arms,  for  the  governance  of  the  king's 
galley. 

Aug.  9.  Robert  Spaldyng,  serjeant-at-arms,  and  John  Gest  for  the  governance 

Westminster.  of  the  king's  galley.  * 

July  16.  Commission  to  William  Yelverton,  knight,  Thomas  Mountgomery,  knight, 

Westminster.   Richard  Brasyer,  mayor  of  Norwich,  William  Calthorp,  esquire,  Walter 

Gorge,  esquire,  John  Twyer,  esquire,  William  Yelverton,  esquire,  John 

Skarnyng,  esquire,  John  Germyn,  esquire,  and  Nicholas  Parker,  *  gentilman,' 

to  arrest  Robert  Wolston  and  bring  him  before  the  king  in  Chancery. 

Oct.  9.  The  like  to  the  king's  kinsman  Richard,  earl  of  Warwick,  constable  of 

Westminster.  Dover  Castle  and  warden  of  the  Cinque  Ports,  and  his  lieutenant,  the 
mayors  of  Sandewiche,  Faversham  and  Queneburgh,  all  admirals,  mayors, 
bailiffs,  constables,  customers,  keepers  of  ports  and  their  lieutenantsji  and 
Robert  Spaldyng,  one  of  the  king's  serjeants-at-arms^  and  John  Hobson  to 
arrest  Raphael  de  Anrea,  Cataneus  Pinellum,  Jerome  Lomolin,  John 
Lomolin  and  Francis  Salvaign,  merchants  of  Gknoa,  and  bring  them 
before  the  king  in  Chancery. 


3  EDWARD  IV.— Part  II.  303 


2463.  Mbmbrans  14c?. 

July  12.  The  like  to  William  Bourghchier  of  FitzWaryon,  knight,  John  Denham, 

Westmiiuter.  Henry  Pomeray,  John  Cheny,  Seintclere  Pomeray  and  William  Champernon 
to  arrest  John  Copleslon,  '  gentilman/  and  bring  him  before  ihe  king  in 
council. 

June  28.  Commission  to  Richard  Byngham,  Richard  Chokke  and  William  Brayn 
Westmmster.  to  deliver  the  gaol  of  Oxford  of  William  Borodale  of  London,  *  fuller,* 
Lewis  Hertissme  alias  Barbour,  late  of  London,  '  yoman,'  John  Trever, 
lato  of  London,  ^  shipman/  and  John  Mordale  late  of  London,  '  yoman,* 
alias  John  Mordell  late  of  Medynhith,  co.  Berks,  'yoman,'  prisoners 
there. 

Aug.  9.  Commission  to  William  Colshull,  John  Mokelowe  and  Henry  Hier  to 

WestmiDster.  take  carpenters  called  'whelers'  and  'cartwrightes'  and  others,  stone- 
cutters, smiths,  plumbers  and  other  workmen  for  the  works  of  the  king's 
ordnance,  and  bombards,  cannons,  •  culveryns,'  *  fowelers,'  *  serpentynes ' 
and  other  cannons  and  powder,  sulphur,  saltpetre,  stone,  iron,  lead  and 
other  equipment  for  the  same,  crossbows  and  bolts  for  them,  bows,  ari'ows, 
*  bowestringes,'  *  langdebeves,*  lances,  '  gleves,'  mallets  and  other  necessaries 
and  carriage  for  the  same  and  hoi'ses  called  '  hakeneys.' 

Membrane  I3d. 

Aug.  28.         Commission  to  John  Scotte,  knight,  Nicholas  Faunt,  John  Alday  and 

Westminster.   Thomas   Ussher  to   take  bakers,   brewers,   butchers  and   others   for  the 

preparation  of  victual?  for  the  king's  fleet.  By  K,  by  word  of  mouth. 

Aug.  28.         Commission  to  William  Ross  and  William  Baldry  to  take  ships  and 

Westminster,  vessels  for  the  conduct  and  carriage  of  victuals  for  the  king's  fleet  against 

Scotland  By  K.  by  word  of  mouth. 

Oct.  7.  Commission  to  the  king's  kinsman  Richard,  earl  of  Warwick,  constable 

Westminster,  of  Dover  Castle  and  warden  of  the  Cinque  Ports,  and  his  lieutenant,  the 
mayors,  bailiffs,  constables,  customers  and  keepers  of  ports  and  their 
lieutenants,  and  Robert  Spaldyng,  one  of  the  king's  serjeants-at-arms, 
William  Pnrchace  and  Richard  Sutton  to  arrest  Raphael  de  Aurea, 
merchant  of  Genoa,  Catanus  Spynell,  merchant  of  Genoa,  —  Lomelyn, 
merchant  of  Genoa,  and  certain  other  merchants  of  Genoa  and  bring  them 
before  the  king  in  Chancery. 

1^Q4i^  Membrane  I2d. 

Jan.  26.  Commission  of  oyer  and  terminer  to  the  king's  kinsmen  Richard,  earl  of 
Northampton.  Warwick  and  Salisbury,  William,  earl  of  Arundel,  and  John,  earl  of 
Worcester,  and  Richard  Wydevile  of  Ryvers,  knight,  William  Hastynges, 
of  Hastynges,  knight,  John  Wenlok  of  Wenlok,  knight,  John  Markham, 
knight,  Robert  Danby,  knight,  William  Yelverton,  knight,  Richard 
Byngham,  Peter  Ardren,  knight,  Nicholas  Assheton,  Robert  Danvcrs, 
Walter  Movie,  John  Nedeham  and  Richard  Chok  within  the  counties  of 
Gloucester,  Worcester,  Somerset,  Wilts,  Berks,  Oxford,  Warwick  and 
Leicester.  By  K.  by  word  of  mouth. 

][4g3^  Membrane  lid. 

Nov.  16.         Appointment  of    John  Nicholson,  esquire,  and   John  Fereby  to  the 
Poutefract.    scrutiny  and  survey  of  the  weighing  of  all  wools  shipped  in  the  port  of 
Kyngeston  on  Hull  at  the  present  time. 

The  like  of  Thomas  Dyxon,  esquire,  and  John  Bekwith  in  the  ports  of 
Boston  and  Bishop's  Lynn. 


304  CALENDAR  OF  PATENT  ROLLS. 


1463.  Metnbrane  lld~^^ont. 

Nov.  22.         Commission  to   William  Blounte^  esquire,  William  Basset,  Nicholas 
Middleham.     Fitzherbert  and  William  Hyde  to  arrest  John  Cokeyn,  esquire,  and  bring 
him  before  the  king  in  Chancery. 

Dec.  7.  Commission  to  Henry  Gray  of  Codnorc,  knight,  Walter  Blounte,  knight, 

York.  Nicholas  Stathum  and  the  sheriff  of  Derby  to  enquire  into  the  complaint 
of  John  Strelley  and  Richard  Bawekewell  that  William  Vernon,  knight, 
Henry  Vernon  his  son  and  others  broke  their  closes  and  houses  at  Hasil- 
baye,  oo.  Derby,  assaulted  them  and  their  men  and  carried  off  their  goods, 
rents,  com,  beasts  and  chattels.  The  said  William  and  Henry  were  sum- 
moned by  writ  of  privy  seal  to  appear  before  the  king  to  make  restitution, 
but  failed  to  appear  and  continued  to  annoy  them. 

1464. 

Jan.  2.  Commission  to   Geoffrey   Gate,   knight,  Walter  Fetyplace,   mayor  of 

Weiituiiister.  Suthampton,  Thomas  Uvedule,  esquire,  Henry  Trenchard,  esquire,  Thomas 
Welle,  William  Nedeham,  Philip  More  and  the  sheriff  of  Southampton  to 
enquire  into  the  complaint  of  Peter  Alday,  John  de  Garcie,*  Martin  de  Unda 
and  John  de  Spayne,  merchants  of  Spain,  that  when  they  had  freighted  a 
ship  called  la  Maudeleyne  of  Spain,  of  the  portage  of  90  tons,  with  divers 
wines  and  other  goods  and  merchandise  in  Spain  and  brought  it  to  the 
coasts  of  the  Isle  of  Wight  under  letters  of  sale>conduct  of  the  king  and  it 
was  wrecked  there  but  no  parcel  of  the  goods  and  no  person  was  lost, 
certain  of  the  king's  subjects  dwelling  there  carried  off  divers  wines,  goods 
and  merchandise  as  though  ihey  were  wreck  of  sea,  though  they  were  not, 
and  kept  the  isaid  letters  of  safe-conduct ;  and  to  cause  restitution  to  be 
made  of  the  said  letters  and  to  ceitify  thereon  to  the  king. 

Jan.  8.  Commission  of  oyer  and  terminer  to  John  Shipward,  mayor  of  Bristol, 

Westminster.  Richard  Cbook,  1'homas  Yong,  William  Cauyngez,  William  Coder,  Philip 
Mede,    William   Howell,   John    Bagot,   Thomas    Kempson,   and   William' 
Spencer  within  the  town  and  liberty  of  Bristol.  By  K. 

Membrane  7d. 

Feb.  11.         Commission  to  the  mayor  of  Newcastle-on-Tyne,  Robert  Rodes  and  the 

Westminster,  sheriff  of  the  town  to  take  any  ship  of  the  said  town  or  any  other  town  of 

the  portage  of  400  tons  or  under  and  masters  and  mariners  for  its  governance 

for  the  resistance  of  the  king's  enemies.  By  K. 

Feb.  8.  Commission  of  oyer  and  terminer  to  the  king's  kinsmen,  Richard,  earl 

Westminster,  of  Warwick  and  Salisbury,  Williamj  earl  of  Arundel,  and  John,  earl  of 
Worcester,  and  Richard  Widevile  of  Ryvers,  knight,  William  Hastynges  of 
Hastynges,  knight,  John  Wenlok  of  Wenlok,  knight,  John  Markbam,  knight, 
•  Robert  Danby,  knight,  William  Yelverton,  knight,  Richard  Byngham,  Peter 
Ardorn,  knight,  Nicholas  Aysshton,  Robert  Danvers,  Walter  Moyle^  John 
Kedeham,  and  Richard  Chok,  within  the  counties  of  Gloucester,  Somerset, 
Dorset,  Wilts,  Berts,  Devon,  Cornwall,  Southampton,  Sun*ey,  Sussex,  and 
Kent,  and  the  town  and  liberty  of  Bnstol. 

3f EM  BRANS  Id, 

Feb.  18.  The  like  to  the  king's  kinsmen  John,  duke  of  Suffolk,  John,  earl  of 
Westminster.  Worcester,  and  Henry,  earl  of  Essex,  and  Richard  Wodevyle  of  Ryvers, 
knight,  Antony  Wodevyle  of  Scales,  knight,  William  Hastynges  of  Has- 
tynges, knight,  John  Wenlok  of  Wenlok,  knight,  John  Markeham,  knight, 
Robert  Danby,  knight,  William  Yelverton,  knight,  Richard  Byngham,  Peter 
Ardern,  knight,  ^Nficholas  Ayssheton,  Robert  Danvers,  Walter  Moyle,  John 
Nedeham,  Richard  Chok,  William  Seyntgeorge,  knight,  John  Colvyle, 
knisht,  Thomas  Burgoyn,  Thomas  Lokton,  John  Ansty,  and  John  Frevylo 
witnin  the  county  of  Cambridge.  ,  By  K. 


305 


3  EDWARD  IV.— Part  III. 


1463.  Membranes  27  and  26.  • 

Nov.  18.         Inspejnmus  and  confirmation  to  the  major  and  citizens  of  Hereford  of 
Westminster,  the  following  : 

1.  Letters  patent  dated  12  January,  2  Henry  VI.  inspecting  and  confirming 

a  charter  dated  at  Westminster,  20  November,  1  Henry  IV.  {Charter 
RoUy  1  Henry  IV.  p.  1,  No.  14],  inspecting  and  confirming  the 
following : — 

(1.)  Letters  patent  dated  1  March,  1  Richard  11.  inspecting  and 
confirming  a  charter  dated  at  Hertford,  2H  January,  5  Edward  IH. 
[Charter  Roil,  5  Edward  III.  No.  87,]  inspecting  and  con- 
firming  a  charter  dated  at  York,  16  September,  8  Edward  IL 
[Charter  Rollj  8  Edward  II.  No.  48,]  inspecting  and 
confirming  with  additions  the  following  : — 

a.  A  charter  dated  at  Westminster,  9  October,  1  Richard  I. 
6.  A  charter  dated  at  Clarendon,  10  July,  17  John.     [Rotuli 
Cartarum^p.  212.] 

c.  A  charter  dated  at  Westminster,  23  March,  11  Henry  III. 

d.  Another  charter  of  the  same  date. 

€,  A  charter  dated  Worcester,  8  August,  40  Henry  III. 
(2.)  Letters  patent  dated  15  November,  7  Richard  IL 
(8.)  Letters  patent  dated  2  February,  16  Richard  IL 
(4.)  Letters  patent  dated  3  September,  18  Richard  II. 
(5.)  A  charter  dated  at  Westminster,  23  June,  23   Richard  II. 
[Charter  Roily  21-23  Richard  II  No.  1.] 

2.  Letters  patent  dated   16  October,  36  Henry  YL  exempting  them 

from  being  made  collectors  of  tenths,  fifteenths  or  other  subsidies 
except  within  the  said  city  and  its  liberties. 

For  4  marks  paid  in  the  hanaper. 

Membranes  26  and  24. 

May  20.         Intpeanmus  and  confirmation  to  the  abbot  and  convent  of  Rading  of  the 
Westminster,    following : — 

1.  A  charter  dated  at  I^eading,  11  August,  5  Richard  II.  [Charter  Roll^ 

5-6  Richard  II  No.  24,]  inspecting  and  confirming  a  charter  dated 
at  Walton,  19  June,  12  Edward  IIL  [ChaHerRoll,  i2  Edward  III. 
No.  18],  inspecting  and  confirming  with  additions  to  John  de 
Appelford,  then  abbot,  and  the  monks  a  charter  dated  Westminster, 
3  July,  8  Edward  II.  [Charter  Roll,  8  Edward  II.  No.  1,] 
inspecting  and  confirming  with  additions  the  foll<^ing  : — 

(1.)  A  charter  dated  at  Westminster,  19  Februair,  11  Henry  IIL 
inspecting  and  confirming  a  charter  dated  at  Kouen,  19  June, 
4  John. 
(2.)  Another   charter   dated    at   Westmmster,  19  February,  11 

Henry  HI. 
(3.)  A  charter  of  Henry  II.  dated  at  Rouen. 

2.  Letters  patent  dated  23  August,  8  Richard  II.  exempting  the  monks 

of  Leomynstre,  who  are  removable  by  the  abbot,  from  the  collection 
of  tenths  in  the  diocese  of  Hereford. 

For  24  marks  paid  in  the  hanaper. 

tc    86914.  n 


306  CALENDAR  OF  PATENT  ROLLS. 


1463,  Mbmbranb  23. 

May  13.  Insperitnus  and  confirmation  to  the  burgesses  of  the  town  of  Maudon  of 
Westminster,  letters  patent  dated  10  January,  1  Richard  II.  inspecting  and  confirming  a 
charter  dated  at  Westminster,  6  December,  4  Edward  III.  [Charter  Roll, 
4  Edward  III.  No.  24,]  inspecting  and  confirming  a  charter  dated  at 
Westminster,  6  June,  18  Edward  I.  [Charter  Roll,  18  Edward  J.  No.  56,] 
inspecting  a  charter  of  Henry  II.  dated  at  Pembroke,  7  October. 

For  20f.  paid  in  the  hanaper. 

May  17.         Inspeximus  and  confirmation  of  letters  patent  of  Henry  III.  [recttus 
Weftminater.   II.]  dated  at  Tours  [circa  1166  ?]  as  follows  :— 

IT.  rex  Anglie  et  dux  Normnnnie  et  Aguitanie  et  comes  Andegavie 
archiepiscopo  Eboracefisi  et  episcopo  Lincolniensi  et  omnibus  jugticiariis  et 
vicecomitibus  et  ministris  etfideltbus  suis  de  Eboracseira  et  de  Legrecscira 
salutem.  Sciatis  me  concessisse  Hamoni  Belario  totam  terram  quatn 
Rogerus  de  Moubrai  ei  dedit  pro  servicio  sua  scilicet  in  Kettelby  viz, 
earrucatas  terre  et  dimidiam  et  in  Buriiona  Hi.  carrucatas  terre  et 
molendtnum  de  Northeby.  Quare  volo  et  Jirmiter  precipio  quod  ipse  et 
heredes  sui  predictam  terram  totam  habeant  et  teneant  cum  pertinentiis 
suis  de  Rogero  de  Moubrai  et  de  heredibus  suis  per  servicium  unius  militis 
ita  bene  et  in  pace  et  libere  et  quiete  et  honoriHce  sicut  carta  ipsius  Rogeri 
de  Moubrai  testatur,  Testibus  Ricardo  de  Humez,  cofiestabularioy  et 
Ricardo  de  Luci  et  Warinofilio  Geraldiy  camerario,  et  Manassero  Bisety 
dapiferOf  et  Willelmo  de  Colevilla  et  Ricardo  de  Campvilla,  apud 
Turoniam.  For  \  mark  paid  in -the  hanaper. 

May  21.  Inspeximus  and  confirmation  to  the  abbot  and  convent  of  Coggeshale  of 

Westminster,  letters  patent  dated  11  January,  18  Edward  III.  being  a  grant  to  them  of 

a  tun  of  i%d  wine  yearly  at  Easter  at  London,  in  consideration  of  their 

finding  a  chaplain  to  celebrate  divine  service  daily  in  their  church  for  the 

king  and  Philippa  bis  consort.  For  ^  mark  paid  in  the  hanaper. 

May  21.  Inspeximus  and  confirmation  to  the  burgesses  of  the  town  of  Nottingham 

Westminster,  of  a  cnarter  of  Henry  II.  dated  at  York.  [Ecedera,  vol.  i.,  p.  41 ;  Stevenson's 
Records  of  Nottingham,  vol.  i.  p.  2.] 

For  ^  mark  paid  in  the  hanaper. 

July  2.  Inspeximus  and  confirmation  to  John  Stokes  and  Alice  his  wife,  the  present 

Westminster,  tenants  of  the  manor  of  BigenhuU  in  Burcestre,  of  a  charter  dated  West- 
minster, 20  October,  1  Richard  II.  granting  to  John  de  Worthe,  knight^ 
that  he  and  his  heirs  shall  have  a  market  weekly  on  Monday  and  a  fair 
yearly  for  three  days  at  St.  James  the  Apostle  at  the  said  manor.  [Charter 
Roll,  1  Richard  II.  No.  26.]  For  6s.  Sd.  paid  in  the  hanaper. 


Mbmbranbs  22  AND  21. 

May  26.  Inspeximus  and  confirmation  to  the  mayor,  bailiffs  and  burgesses  of  the 

Westminster*  town  of  Tenby  of  the  following : — 

1.  Letters  patent  dated  20  November,  8  Henir  VI.  inspecting  and  con- 
firming letters  patent  dated  21  June,  1  Henry  V.  inspecting  and 
confirming  letters  patent  dated  22  August,  3  Henry  IV.  inspecting 
%nd  confirming  with  additions  letters  patent  dated  6  February, 
1  Richard  II.  inspecting  and  confirming  lelters  patent  dated  8  June, 
49  Edward  III.  inspecting  and  confirming  a  charter  of  Laurence  de 
Hastinges,  earl  of  Pembroke  and  lord  of  Weyseford  and  Bergeveny, 
dated  at  Pembroke,  27  February,  16  Edward  III.  inspecting  and 
confirming  with  additions  a  charter  of  Aymer  de  Valencia,  earl  of 
Pembroke  and  lord  of  Weyseford  and  Montignac,  dated  at  his  manor 
of  Wynneferthyng  in  Norfolk,  24  April,  16  Edward  IJ.  inspecting  and 
confirming  with  additions  a  charter  of  William  de  Valencia,  earl  of 


3  EDWARD  IV.— Part  III.  307 


1463.  Membranes  22  and  21— cant. 

Pembroke,  his  father  and  Joan  the  countesH,  his  mother,  granting  to 
them  divers  liberties. 
2.  A  charter  dated  at  Wf»stminster,  12  Jnly,  23  Henry  VI.  [Charter 
Roll,  21-24  Henri/  VI.  No,  29.]   For  33*.  4d.  paid  in  the  hanaper. 


Mem  BRAN B  21 — cont, 

June  21.  Inspeximus  and  confirmation  to  the  abbot  and  convent  of  Keynesham 
Westminster,  of  a  diarter  dated  at  Westminster,  8  November,  50  Henry  III.  confirming  a 
grant  to  them  of  a  market  weekly  on  Tuesday  and  a  fair  yearly  at  St. 
Oswald  at  their  manor  of  Mersfeld,  previously  made  by  him,  provided 
that  it  be  not  to  the  injury  of  neighbouring  markets  and  fairs.  Wit- 
nesses :  Walter,  bishop  of  Bath  and  Wells,  Hugh  le  Bigod,  Philip  Basset, 
Boger  de  Mortuo  Mari,  Roger  de  Clyfford,  Boger  de  Leyburn,  Robert 
Waleraund,  William  Belet,  Ralph  de  Bakepuz  and  others. 

For  ^  mark  paid  in  the  hanaper. 

MbMBRANBS  21  AND  20. 

Nov.  4.  Inspeasimus  and  confirmation  to  Henry,  the  prior,  and  the  convent  of 

Westminster.  St.  Mary,  Suthwerk,  of  letters  patent  dated  20  August,  13  Richard  II. 
inspecting  and  confirming  to  Henry  de  Colyngboum,  then  prior,  and  the 
convent  the  following  : — 

1.  A  charter  dated  at  Westminster,  12  January,  18  Edward  III.  [Charter 

Roll,  18  Edward  III,  No.  8,]  inspecting  and  confirming  the 
following : — 

(1.)  A  charter  of  Stephen  dated  at  London.  [Monasticon, 
vol.  vi.,  p.  172.] 

(2.)  A  charter  of  Henry  I.  dated  at  Winchester. 

(3.)  A  chai'ter  of  Henry  II.  dated  at  Windsor. 

(4.)  A  charter  of  the  same  dated  at  Westminster. 

(5.)  A  charter  of  P.  bishop  of  Winchester. 

(6.)  Letters  of  William,  bishop  of  Winchester. 

2.  Letters  patent  dated  10  July,  19  Edward  H. 

3.  Letters  patent  dated  6  February,  7  Edward  II. 

4.  A  charter  of  Henry  II.  dated  at  Windsor. 

5.  A  charter  dated  at  Lambeth,  7  May,  8  John.    [Monasticon,'] 

6.  Letters  patent  dated  26  January,  6  Ed^-ard  IL 

7.  A  charter  of  Henry  II.  dated  at  Westminster. , 

8.  A  charter  of  Hamelin,  earl  of  Warrenne,  and  Isabel  his  countess. 

[Mona^ticon.'] 

9.  A  writing  of  William,  bishop  of  Winchester.     [Monasticon,] 

10.  A  writing  of  Thomas,  the  prior,  and  the  convent  of  Christ  Church, 

Canterbury,  dated  xviii.  Kal.  Jan.  1280,  confirming  a  charter  of 
T.  archbishop  of  Canterbury. 

11.  A  charter  of  Stephen  dated  at  London.     [Monasticon.'] 

For  60s,  paid  in  the  hanaper. 

MSMBRANBB  19  AND  18. 

June  23.  Inspeximus  and  confirmation  to  the  mayor,  bailiffs   and  burgesses  of 

Westminster.  Clyfton,  Dertmuth  and  Hardenesse  of  (1)  letters  patent  dated  14  Decem- 
ber, 2  Richard  II.  inspecting  and  confirming  a  charter  dated  at  the  Tower 
of  London,  14  April,  16  Edward  III.  [Charter  Roll,  16  Edward  IIL  No, 
18,]  and  (2)  a  charter  dated  at  Westminster,  6  November,  17  Richai*d  II. 
[Charter  Roily  15-17  Richard  IL  No,  10]  ;  and  grant  that  the  adjoining 
township  of  South touudertemouth  shall  henceforth  be  annexed  to  the  said 

u  2 


308  CALENDAR  OF  PATENT  ROLLS. 


1463.  Membranes  19  and  18 — cont. 

borough  of  Cliftondertemouth  Hardenasse,  in  consideration  of  the  fact  that 
the  burgesses  keep  watches  against  invaders  on  the  confines  of  the  to^vn- 
ship  and  beyond  at  a  place  called  '  G^lions  Boure '  but  the  inhabitants  of 
the  township  contribute  nothing  because  they  do  not  enjoj  the  liberties  of 
the  borough.  The  mayor  and  bailiffs  shall  have  return  of  writs  and  execu- 
tion thereof  within  the  said  township  and  the  liberty  of  the  borough,  saving 
always  the  right  of  the  lord  of  the  fee  of  the  township,  and  all  pleas  real 
and  personal  and  attachments  and  fines  and  amercements,  and  also  view 
of  frank-pledge  and  all  that  pertains  to  it.  And  they  may  acquire,  in 
mortmain,  after  inquisition,  lands,  tenements,  rents  and  other  possessions, 
not  held  in  chief,  to  the  value  of  20/.  yearly.  Witnesses  :  Th.  archbishop 
of  Canterbury,  W.  archbishop  of  York,  G.  bishop  of  Exeter,  the  chancellor, 
J.  bishop  of  Carlisle,  the  king's  brothers  Qeorge,  duke  of  Clarence,  and 
Richard,  duke  of  Gloucester,  the  king*s  kinsmen  Richard,  earl  of  Warwick, 
and  John,  earl  of  Worcester^  treasurer  of  England,  Robert  Styllyngton, 
king's  clerk,  keeper  of  the  privy  seal,  and  William  Hastynges  of  Hastynges, 
the  king's  chamberlain,  and  John  Wenlok  of  Wenlok,  knightj<.  By  K. 


Membranes  18  and  17. 

Oct.  6.  Inspeximus  and  confirmation  to  the  prioress  and  nuns  of  Stratford  atte 

Westminster.  Bo  we  of  the  following  : — 

1.  A  charter  dated  at  Westminster,  27  April,  14  Richard  IL    [^Charter 
Roll,  14  Richard  II.  No.  1,]  inspecting  and  confirming  a  charter  dated 
at  Windsor  Castle,  6  April,  40  Edward  III.  ICharier  Roily  39  and  40 
Edward  IIL  No.  6,]  inspecting  and  confirming  the  following : — 
(1.)  A  chaiter  dated  at  Westminster,   30  May,  11  Edward  II. 
[^Charter  Roll,  11  Edward  IL  No.  4,]  inspecting  and  con- 
firming the  following : — 

a.  A  charter  of  Henry  II.  dated  at  Geldeford. 

b.  A   charter  dated   at  Lyons,  20   October,  10  Richard  I. 

renewing  a  charter  dated  at  Westminster,  6  October, 
1  Richard  I. 

c.  A  charter  dated  at  Westminster,  24  May,  31  Henry  III. 

inspecting  and  confirming  the  preceding  charter. 
(2.)  A  charter  of  Stephen  dated  at  Loudon.     lMonasticon.'\ 
(3.)  A  charter  (letters  patent)  dated  22  November,  31  Henry  III. 
.(4.)  A  charter  dated  at  Lyons,  30  October,  10  Richard  L  renew- 
ing a  charter  dated  at  Westminster,  9  October,  I  Richard  I. 
[^Monasticon,'] 
2.  Letters  patent  dated  26  July,  4  Richard  II.  inspecting  aud  confirming 
letters  patent  dated  4  February,  33  Edward  III.  being  a  pardon 
to  them  of  the  portion  payi^le  by  them  of  a  fifteenth  or  other  quota 
in  respect  of  land  in  Brambbeleye.        For  20;.  paid  in  the  hanaper. 


Membrane  17 — coni. 

Oct.  8.  Inspeximus  and  confirmation  to  John  Pereson,  the  provost,  and  the 

Westminster,  scholars  of  Queen's  Hall,  Oxford,  of  letters  patent  dated  15  November, 
2  Richard  II.  inspecting  and  confirming  a  charter  dated  at  Westminster, 
18  November,  21  Edwai;d  III.  [Charter  Roll,  21  Edward  IIL  No.  6,1 
being  a  grant  to  them  in  frank  almoin  of  the  custody  of  the  hospital  of 
St.  Julian,  Southampton,  called  the  House  of  God. 

For  ^  mark  paid  in  the  hanaper. 


8  EDWARD  IV.— Pakt  HI.  309 


1463.  Membranes  16  and  15. 

Maj  5.  Inspeximus  and  confirmation  to  the  burgesses  and  bailiffs  of  Escarde- 

Westmiiuter.  burgh  of  letters  patent  dated  1 1  June,  1  Henry  VI.  inspecting  and  confirming 
a  charter  dated  at  Westminster,  14  December,  2  Henry  V.  [^Charter  Roily 
2  Henry  V,  p.  2,  No.  10,]  inspecting  and  confirming  with  additions  letters 
patent  dated  1  July,  1  Henry  IV.  inspecting  and  confirming  letters  patent 
dated  10  December,  I  Richard  II.  inspecting  and  confirming  a  charter 
dat«d  at  Westminster,  17  February,  22  Edward  III.  [Charter  Boll, 
22  Edward  IIL  No,  33,]  inspecting  and  confirming  a  charter  dated  at 
York,  14  March,  5  Edward  II.  [Charter  Molly  5  Edward  11.  No.  14,] 
inspecting  and  confirming  the  following : — 

1.  A  charter  of  Henry  II.  dated  at  York. 

2.  A  charter  dated  at  York,  25  March,  1  John. 

3.  A  charter  dated  at  Windsor,  20  January,  37  Henry  HI.  inspecting  and 

confirming  the  said  charter  of  Henry  II. 

4.  A  charter  dated  at  Windsor,  22  January,  37  Henry  III. 

5.  A  charter  dated  at  Rochester,  1  June,  37  Henry  III. 

6.  A  charter  dated  at  York,  25  May,  40  Henry  III. 

7.  Another  charter  of  the  same  date. 

For  2  marks  paid  in  the  hanaper. 

Membrane  14. 

March  8.  Inspeximus  and  confirmation  to  Nicholas  Reysby,  the  master,  and  the 

Westminster,    priors,  canons,  nuns  and  brethren  of  the   Semplingham  order  of  a  charter 

dated  at  Woodstock,  30  April,  4  Edward  III.  [Charter  Roily  4  Edward  III. 

No.  82,]  inspecting  and  confirming  a  charter  dated  at  Westminster,  16  March, 

1 1  Henry  HI,  granting  to  them  divers  liberties. 

For  265.  8</.  paid  in  the  hanaper. 

May  5.  Irupeximus  and  confirmation   to  the  men   of  Acleye,  co.  Norfolk,  of 

Westminster,  letters  patent  dated  17  November,  6  Henry  VI.  inspecting  and  confirming 
letters  patent  dated  20  May,  3  Henry  IV.  inspecting  and  confirming 
letters  patent  dated  20  July,  1 1  Richard  II.  inspecting  and  confirming  letters 
patent  dated  6  June,  38  Edward  III. .  inspecting  and  confirming  the 
following  : — 

1.  A  charter  dated  at  Winchester,  5  April,  34  Edward  I.  inspecting  and 

confirming  two  charters  of  Henry  II.     [Charter  Roily  34  Edward 
I.  No.  32.] 

2.  A  charter  of  Roger  Bygot,  earl  of  Norfolk. 

For  ^  mark  paid  in  the  hanaper. 

Membrane  13. 

March  15.  Inxpeximus  and  confirmation  to  the  mayor  and  commonalty  of  the 
Westminster,  borough  of  Plymmouth  of  a  charter  dated  at  Windsor  Castle,  25  July, 
18  Henry  VI.  as  follows: — Grant  to  the  mayor  and  commonalty  of  the 
borough  of  Plymmouth,  incorporated  by  authority  of  Parliament  out  of  the 
town  of  Sutton  Priour  and  the  tithing  of  Sutton  Raf,  parcel  of  the  hamlet 
of  Sutton  Vautort^  and  a  parcel  of  the  tithing  of  Compton^  co.  Devon,  on 
account  of  their  proximity  to  the  sea  coast,  that  the  mayors  of  the  borough 
shall  be  justices  of  the  peace  within  the  borough  and  precinct  and  that  the 
mayor  and  recorder  shall  be  justices  of  oyer  and  terminer  within  the  same. 
The  mayor  and  commonalty  shall  have  a  merchant  gild  in  the  borough 
with  all  that  pertains  to  it  in  the  same  manner  as  the  mayor  and  com- 
monalty of  the  town  of  Oxford,  and  the  mayor  shall  hear  and  determine 
pleas  real  and  personal  in  the  guildhall  in  the  same  manner  as  the  mayor 
and  bailiffs  of  Oxford,  and  the  mayor  and  commonalty  shall  have  cognisance 
of  pleas  within  the  borough  and  precinct.     They  shall  have  return  and 


310  CALENDAR  OF  PATENT  ROLLS. 


1463.  Membrane  IS^cant. 

execution  of  writs  within  the  boroagh  and  precinct,  and  no  one  of  the  bor- 
gesses  shall  be  placed  on  aasizes,  juries,  attaints  or  reoognifiances  without  the 
borough  except  in  right  of  lands,  tenements  or  rents  which  he  holds  withoat 
it,  and  thej  shall  choose  one  of  their  fellow  burgesses  as  coroner  within  the 
borough  and  precinct.  They  shall  have  two  fairs  yearly  within  the  borough 
of  the  feasts  of  St  Matthew,  Apostle  and  Evangelist,  and  the  Conversion  of 
St.  Paul,  and  two  markets  weekly  on  Monday  and  Thursday,  provided  that 
they  be  not  to  the  injury  of  neighbouring  fairs  and  markets.  And  they 
shall  have  soc  and  sac,  thol  and  theam,  infangthef,  outfangthef,  chattels  of 
felons  and  fugitives  and  all  fines  and  amercements  within  the  borough,  and 
shall  be  quit  of  toll,  murage,  pontage,  passage,  stallage,  lastage,  quayage, 
pi<2c^9  pavage  and  other  charges.  Witnesses  : — H.  bishop  of  Winchester, 
and  J.  archbishop  of  York,  cardinals,  H.  archbishop  of  Canterbury,  J. 
bishop  of  Bath  and  Wells,  the  chancellor,  W.  bishop  of  Lincoln,  Humphrey 
duke  of  Gloucester,  the  king's  uncle,  Richard,  duke  of  York,  John,  duke  of 
Norfolk,  Humphrey,  earl  or  Stafford,  William,  earl  of  Suffolk,  steward  of 
the  household,  Ralph  Crumwell,  treasurer  of  England,  and  William 
Phelipp,  chamberlain  of  the  household,  knights.  Master  William  Lynde- 
wode,  king's  clerk,  keeper  of  the  privy  seal,  and  others. 

For  13#.  4<f.  paid  in  the  hanaper. 

May  28.  Impexitnus  and  confirmation  to  James  Maynwaryng,  present  patron  of 
Westminster,  the  under- mentioned  chantn^,  of  a  charter  of  Edward,  prince  of  Wales,  earl 
of  Chester,  Ponthieu  and  Montreuil,  dated  at  Byflet,  25  June,  35  Edward  I. 
granting  licence  for  Henry  de  Elreton,  burgess  of  Carnarvan,  to  build  a 
chantry  chapel  in  the  town  of  Carnarvan  tm  his  burgage  there,  rented  at  I2d» 
yearly,  which  the  prince  gives  to  him  quit  of  all  service,  and  to  assign  to  the 
chapel  the  said  burgage  and  30  acres  of  land  in  Carnarvan,  rented  at  2d. 
yearly  for  each  acre,  for  the  sustenance  of  a  chaplain.  Witnesses :  Sirs 
Henry  de  Lacy,  earl  of  Lincoln,  Otto  de  Gkundissono,  Hugh  le  Despenser, 
Guy  Ferre,  John  de  Bauquelle,  John  de  Foxle,  Hugh  de  Audele,  justice  of 
North  Wales,  and  Miles  de  Stapelton,  steward  of  the  prince's  household, 
knights,  and  others  For  1  mark  paid  in  the  hanaper. 

MSMBRANBS    12  AND    11. 

March  19.  Grant  to  John,  abbot  of  the  monastery  of  St.  Albans,  and  John,  the  prior, 
Westminster,  and  the  convent  of  the  house  and  church  of  Tynemouth,  which  is  a  ceil  of 
the  said  monastery,  in  inteipretation  of  charters  of  Richard  I.  and  other  kings, 
the  terms  of  which  are  obscure,  that  they  shall  have  return  and  execution 
of  writs  within  the  lordships  of  the  prior  and  convent,  chattels  of  outlaws, 
felons  and  fugitives,  and  all  fines,  amercements,  ransoms,  issues,  forfeitures, 
year,  day,  strip  and  waste,  deodands,  treasure-trove  and  wreck  of  sea  where 
the  sea  ebbs  and  flows  and  over  all  their  lands.  And  whereas  by  statute  in 
Parliament  at  Yodc,  9  Edward  II L  it  was  ordained  that  all  merchants  and 
others  coming  to  any  place  within  the  realm  should  sell  their  merchandise 
freely;  and  whereas  the  said  abbot,  prior  and  convent  have  coal  and  white  salt 
on  the  north  of  the  river  Tyne  which  would  be  a  great  profit  to  the  church  of 
Tyn  mouth  if  they  might  seU  them,  but  the  men  of  K'ewcastle-upon-l^e  hinder 
merchants  from  coming  within  the  said  river  to  sell  necessaries  to  the  abbot, 
prior  and  convent  or  to  buy  coal,  salt  or  other  goods  and  impose  heavy  dues, 
and  do  not  allow  the  latter  to  freight  their  own  ships  with  coal,  salt  or  other 
goods,  the  king  grants  that  the  said  abbot,  prior  and  convent  may  freely  buy 
all  victuals,  merchandise  and  necessaries  for  the  safe-custody  of  the  castle 
and  priory  of  Tynmouth  in  the  port  and  river  of  Tyne  and  unload  ships  and 
freight  there  at  all  times  of  the  year  without  hindrance  from  the  men  of 
Newcastle-upon-Tyne,  provided  that  they  do  not  thus  load  wools,  hides  and 
wool-fells  or  other  customable  merchandise.  And  they  and  their  tenants 
residing  within  the  lordship  of  Tynmouth  and  at  Shell  may  make  defences 


'  3  EDWARD  IV.— Part  III.  311 


1463.  Membranes  12  and  11 — eoni. 

■gainst  the  violence  of  the  sea  both  for  their  tenements  and  buildings  and 
for  their  ships  and  boats,  and  may  bake  bread  and  brew  ale  and  '  here ' 
acocHxling  to  the  assize  of  the  realm  and  sell  the  same  and  fish,  6alt  and  fresh 
(recenles),  and  other  victuals  to  mariners  and  others,  and  unload  the  boats  of 
their  tenants  of  fish  and  other  victuals.  [Translated  in  Gibson's  Monastery 
of  Tynetnouth^  vol.  ii.  p.  czxxi.] 

Bj  K.  and  for  4  maiks  paid  in  the  hanaper. 

Membranes  10  and  9. 

June  20.  Inspeximus  and  confirmation  to  the  mayor,  bailiffs  and  burgesses  of  the 
Westminster,  town  of  Kermerdyn  in  South  Wales  of  letters  patent  dated  16  December,  I 
Henrj  YI.  inspecting  and  confirming  a  charter  dated  at  Westminster,  8  June, 
I  Heniy  V.  [^Charter  Boll,  1  Henry  V,  p-  1,  No.  18,]  inspecting  and  con- 
firming letters  patent  of  the  king  when  prince  of  Wales  dated  at  Kenjngton 
Manor,  28  January,  5  Henry  IV.  inspecting  and  confirming  letters  patent 
dated  25  March,  1  Henry  IV.  inspecting  and  confirming  the  following : — 

1.  A  charter  dated  at  Westminster,  7  July, .10  Bichard  XL  [Charter  JRoll, 

9  and  10  Richard  II,  No,  10,]  inspecting  and  confirming  with 
additions  a  charter  dated  at  Westminster,  4  May,  14  E<lward  III. 
[  Charter  Roll,  14  Edward  III,  No,  27,]  inspecting  and  confirming 
with  additions  a  charter  dated  at  Westminster,  3  May,  6  Edward  II. 
r  Charter  Roll,  6  Edward  II.  No,  6,]  inspecting  and  confirming  the 
following : — 

(1.)  A  charter  dated  at  Westminster,  22  Jnly,  11  Henry  III. 

(2.)  A  charter  dated  at  Westminster,  4  February,  41  Heniy  III. 
inspecting  and  confirming  a  charter  of  the  king's  first-born  son 
Edward. 

(3.)  Letters  patent  dated  9  December,  13  Edward  L 

2.  Letters  patent  dated  3  May,  6  Edward  II. 

For  40s.  paid  in  the  hanaper. 

MBMBRANB  9— €0f»^ 

1464. 

Jan.  30.         Inspeximus  and  confirmation  to  Thomas,  the  prior,  and  the  convent  of 
WestmiDster.   Kirkeham  of  a  charter  of  Henry  I.  as  follows : — 

H,  rexAnglorum  arckiepiscopis,  episcopis,  ahbatibus,  comitibus,  baroni- 
busjjusticiariisy  vicecomittous,  ministris  etprepositis  civitatum  et  burgorutn 
et  portuum  maris  et  omnibus  fidelilms  salutem,  Sciatis  nos  recepisse  in 
nostram  propriam  manum  et  custodiam  et  protectiontm  et  defensionem 
priorem  et  conventum  et  domum  de  Kirkeham  et  homines  et  servientes 
eorum  et  terras  etpossessiones  et  omnes  res  suas  quas  habent  in  Anglia,  vel 
juste  adquirere  poterunt  sicut  dominicam  et  specialem  et  iiberam 
elemosinam  nostram.  Quare  volumus  et  firmiier  precipimus  quod  omnia 
tenement  a  sua  teneant  bene  et  in  pace,  liber e  et  quiete,  integre  et  plenarie  et 
honori/lce,  in  bosco  et  in  piano,  in  pratis  et  inpascuis,  in  aauis  etpiscariis 
et  vivariis  et  strem  et  strand,  in  mariscis  etforestis,  in  molendtnis  et  stangnis^ 
in  toftis  et  eroftis  et  virguUis,  in  viis  et  semitis,  Volumus  etiam  ut  sint 
quieti,  tarn  ipsi  quam  homines  eorum,  in  civitate  et  burgo,  in  /oris  et 
nundinis,  in  transitu  pontium  et  in  omnibus  locisper  totam  Angltam  et  per 
omnes  terras  mecu  et  aquas  et  thelonio  et  poniagio  et  passagio  et  pedagio 
et  lastagio  et  stallagio  et  hidagiis  et  cariagiis  et  wardis  et  operibus 
castellorum  et  pontium  et  portorum  et  wallorum  etfossarum  et  vectigalibus 
et  tributis  et  exereitu  et  equitatu  ubigueper  Angliam  ei  per  omnes  terras 
mecu,  Hec  autem  eis  coneedimus  cum  omnibus  libertatibus  et  liberis  con- 
suetudinibus  quas  regia  potestas  liberiares  alieui  ecclesie  conferre  potest. 
Et  prohibemus  ne  super    hiis  libertatibus  aliquis  domum  ae  Kirkeham 


312  CALENDAR  OF  PARENT  ROLLS. 


1464.  Sfembrane  9-^cont, 

moleHiam  faciat  vel  gravamen  super  forisfaeiuram  nostram  decern 
lihrarum  et  super  forisfacturatn  vicecomiH  viginti  solidorum.  Testibus 
Turstino  archiepiscopo  Eboracensi,  Adelulfo  priare  de  Safusto  Oswaldo,  et 
eamite  Davidj  et  NigeUo  de  Alhunieio,  apud  Ehoraeum. 

For  \  mark  paid  in  the  hanaper. 


Membranes  8-4. 
1463. 

May  12.         Inspeximus  and  confirmation  to  the  chancellor,  masters  and  scholars  of 
Westminster,   the  University  of  Cambridge  of  a  charter  dated  at  Westminster,  10  November, 
1  [Henry  IV.  [^Charter  Roll,   1  Henry  IV.  p,  2,  No.  12,]  inspecting  and 
confirming]  the  following  :  — 

1.  A  charter  dated  at  Westminster,  4  July,  2  Richard  II.  [Charter  Roll^ 

2     Richard     11.      No.     13,]    inspecting     and     confirming     the 

following : — 

(1.)  Letters  patent  dated  3  March,  1  Edward  III.  inspecting  and 
confirming  letters  patent  dated  5  June,  2  Edward  II 
inspecting  and  confirming  letters  patent  dated  28  October 
22  Edward  I.,  inspecting  and  confirming  letters  patent  datod 
31  March,  26  Henry  IIL 
(2.)  A  charter  dated  at  Nottingham,  22  October,  1  Edward  III. 
[Charter  Roll^  1  Edward  III,  No,  12,]  inspecting  and 
confinning  with  additions  a  charter  dated  at  Clarendon,  14 
February,  10  Edward  II.  inspecting  and  confirming  with 
additions  a  charter  dated  at  Westminster,  5  June,  2  Edward  II. 
[Charter  Roll,  2  Edward  II,  No.  6,]  inspecting  and  confirm- 
ing a  charter  dated  at  Westminster,  6  February,  20  Edward  I. 
[Charter  Roily  20  Edward  I.  No.  51,]  inspecting  and  confirm- 
ing the  following : — 

a.  Letters  patent  dfited  22  February,  52  Henry  III. 

b.  Letters  patent  dated  7  February,  50  Henry  III. 

c.  Letters  patent  dated  20  Jnly,  53  Henry  III. 
d  Letters  patent  dated  24  July,  54  Henry  III. 

e.  An  agreemept  with  the  burgesses  of  Cambridge. 
(3.)  Letters  patent  dated  19  September,  17  Edward  III. 
(4.)  Letters  patent  dated  23  October,  I  Edward  III. 
(5.)  Letters  patent  dated  20  March,  10  Edward  IIL 
(6.)  Other  letters  patent  of  the  same  date. 

(7.)  Letters  patent  dated  28  February,  18  Edward  III.  being  an 
exemplification  of  letters  close  dated  20  March,  10  Edward  III. 

2.  A  charter  dated  at  Westminster,  17  February,  5  Richard  II.  [Charter 

Roily  5  and  6  Richard  II ,  No.  18.] 
3-  A  charter  dated  at  Westminster,  10  December,  7  Richard  II.  [Charter 
Roily  7  and  8  Richard  II.  No,  21.] 

4.  Letters  patent  dated  10  December,  8  Richard  II. 

5.  lietters  patent  dated  7  April,  9  Richard  II. 

For  1  mark  paid  in  the  hanaper. 

1464.  Membrane  A—cont. 

Jan.  30.  Inspeximus  and  confirmation  to  William  Godewyn,  the  rector,  and  the 
Westminster,  brethren  of  the  monastery  of  Edyndon,  in  the  diocese  of  Salisbury,  of  the 
order  of  St  Augustine,  founded  by  William  de  Edyndon,  bishop  of 
Winchester,  of  a  charter  dated  at  Ledes  Castle,  20  September,  33  Edward 
III.  granting  to  them  divers  liberties.  [Charter  Rollf  3S  Edward  IIL 
No,  8.]  For  5  marks  paid  in  the  hanaper. 


3  EDWARD  IV.— Part  III.  313 


1464*  Membrane  4 — cant, 

Feb.  11.  Pardon  to  William  Hayns  of  Shepred,  co.  Cambridge,  'gentilman/  of 
We8tmiD«ter.  his  outlawry  in  the  county  of  Middlesex  for  not  appearing  before  the 
justices  of  the  Bench  to  satisfj  the  king  of  his  ransom  because  he  find 
Edward  Lyon  of  London, '  gentilman/  John  Brook  of  Berefeld,  co.  Berks, 
'  yoman,'  and  John  Eirkby  of  Royston,  co.  Cambridge,  *  yoman,'  did  not 
bring  John  Standewey  late  of  the  parbh  of  St.  Nicholas  in  the  Isle  of 
Thanet,  co.  Kent,  esquire,  before  the  said  justices  at  a  certain  day  to  answer 
William  Port,  esquire,  on  a  plea  of  debt  as  they  made  mainprise  to  do  ;  he 
having  Eurrendered  to  the  Flete  prison  and  made  fine  to  the  king,  as  Robert 
Danby,  chief  justice  of  the  Bench,  has  certified. 


1453.  Mbmbranss  3 — 1. 

Nov.  5.  Irupeximus  and  conflrmation  to  the  prioress  and  nuns  of  Ambresbury,  of 

Westmiiister.  the  order  of  Font6vrault,  of  a  charter  dated  at  Westminster,  20  August, 

17  Edward  III.  ICharter  Roll,  17  Edward  IIL  No.  16,]  inspecting  and 

confirming  to  Isabel   de   Lancastrc,   then  prioress,  and  the  convent  the 

following  : — 

1.  A  charter  dated  at  Andover,  11  April,  10  Edward  11.  [Charter  Roll^ 

10    Edward   IT,     No.     16,]     inspecting     and     confirming     the 
following : — 

(I .)  A  charter  of  Henry  II.  dated  at  Winchester. 
(2.)  A  charter  dated  at  Langeley,  6  May,  33  Edward  I.  [Charier 
Moll,  33  Edward  1,  No.  34,]  being  an  exemplification  of  a 
charter  dated  at  Clarendon,  12  December,  56  Henry  III.  being 
an  exemplification,  at  the  instance  of  Ida,  then  prioress,  of  a 
charter  dated  at  Arundel,  14  October,  1  Richard  I. 

2.  A  charter  dated  at  Andover,  11  April,  10  Edward  II.  [Charter  Roll^ 

10  Edward  II.  No,  18],. inspecting  and  confirming  a  charter  dated 
at  Westminster,  27  April,  14  Edwanl  I. 

3.  Letters  patent  dated  18  August,  12  Edward  II. 

4.  A  charter  dated  at  Westminster,  30  May,  13  Edward  I.  [Charter 

Boll,  13  Edward  I.  No.  100]. 

5.  Letters  patent  dated  23  August,  13  Edward  I. 

6.  7.  Two  charters  dated  at  Canterbury,  10  May,  14  Edward  I.  [Charter 

Moll,  14  Edward  I.  Nos.  10  and  11.] 
8.  Letters   patent    dated  16  December,    16  Edward  I.  inspecting  and 
confirming  a  charter  of  Edmund,  earl  of  CornwalL 

For  6  marks  paid  in  the  hanaper. 

Mbmbranb  lAd. 

June  3.  Commission  to  John  Boyvyle,  esquire,  Simon  Hareby,  esquire,  William 

Westminster.  Qreneham,  esquire,  William  Husee,  'gentilman,'  John  Chcseldyn, 
'  gentilman,'  John  Broun,  alderman  of  the  town  of  Stannford,  John 
Trunke  and  William  Banastre  to  arrest  and  imprison  certain  persons  who 
are  spreading  rumours  and  stirring  up  insurrection  in  the  counties  of 
Lincoln  and  Rutland. 


314 


4  EDWAUD  IV.— Part  I. 


1464. 


April  18. 
Westminster. 


April  18. 
Westminster. 


April  20. 
Westminster. 


April  21. 
Westminster. 


Aprils. 
Westminster. 


April  26. 
Westminiiter. 


Apiil  26. 
Westminster. 

April  24. 
Westminster. 


April  27. 
Westminster. 


Membrane  25. 

Pardons  of  outlawry  to  the  following  : — 
John  Powele,  alias  Powelen  late  of  Bukeshale,  eo.  Suffolk,  dark,  for 
not  appearing  before  the  justices  of  the  Bench  to  answer  John 
Bobjns,  chaplain,  touching  a  debt  of  40«.  he  having  surrendered  to 
the  Flete  prison,  as  Bobert  Danbj,  chief  justice  of  the  Beech,  has 
certified.  Middlesex. 

John  Henton  late  of  Tenderden,  co.  Kent,  clerk,  for  not  appearing 
before  John  Prysot  and  his  feUows,  justices  of  the  Bench  of  the  late 
king,  to  answer  Walter  Stalworth  of  Westminster,  co.  Middlesex^ 
^  taylour,'  touching  a  debt  of  40s.  Middlesex. 

John  Kynot  of  Wodeham  Ferrers,  co.  Essex,  '  husbondman,'  for  not 
appearing  to  answer  John  Bernard  touching  a  debt  of  5  marks. 

Essex. 

John  Qylys  late  of  Little  Walsyngham,  co.  Norfolk,  *  chapman,'  for 
not  appearing  before  the  justices  of  the  Bench  to  answer  William 
Ilkeston,  citizen  and  '  haberdassher '  of  London,  touching  a  debt  of 
4/.  London. 

William  Hall  late  of  Wokyngham,  co.  Berks,  'yoman,'  for  not 
appearing  before  Bobert  Danby  and  his  fellows,  justices  of  the 
Bench,  to  answer  John  Skowe  touching  a  debt  of  3/.  lOs.  4d. 

London. 

John  Lutte  of  Market  Overton,  co.  Rutland,  ^  husbondman,'  for  not 
appearing  before  the  justices  of  the  Bench  to  answer  John  Hyrst, 
chaplain,  touching  a  plea  of  debt'  of  10  marks,  and  a  plea  that  he 
render  chattels  to  him  to  the  value  of  3/.  10^.  Middlesex. 

William  Eyre  late  of  Great  Okeboume,  co.  Wilts,  '  husbondman,'  for 
not  appearing  to  answer  William  Walker  touching  a  trespass. 

Gloucester. 

Robert  Flete  late  of  London,  chaplain,  for  not  appearing  to  answer 
William  Cleve,  clerk,  touching  a  debt  of  4/.  Middlesex. 

Geoffrey  Crokker  of  the  parish  of  Suthtanpton,  co.  Devon,  *  wever,'  for 
not  appearing  when  sued  with  Richard  Crokker  late  of  the  parish  ot 
Teyngton  Drewe,  co.  Devon,  *  husbondman,'  and  John  Crokker  late 
of  Teyngton  Drewe,  *  yoman,'  before  John  Prysot  and  his  fellows, 
justices  of  the  Bench  of  the  late  king,  to  answer  a  plea  of 
Henry  Drewe,  John  Fitz,  John  Burhed,  and  William  Wonston, 
that  they  conspired  to  forge  divers  deeds  and  muniments  concerning 
the  lands  of  the  plaintiffs  at  Shilston  by  Okhampton.  Devon. 

Robert  Mannok  late  of  Stokeneylond,  co.  Suffolk,  '  chapman,'  for  not 
appearing  to  answer  Robert  Gregory,  citizen  and  mercer  of  London, 
touching  a  debt  of  16/.  7s.  dd.  Suffolk. 

Thomas  Sossyngdale  of  Northampton,  '  deyster,'  for  not  appearing 
before  the  justices  of  the  Bench  to  answer  William  Cardemaker, 
citizen  and  grocer  of  London,  touching  a  debt  of  24/.  London. 

William  Lombe  late  of  Northampton,  'dyer,'  for  not  appearing  to 
answer  William  Taylour,  citizen  and  grocer  of  London,  touching  a 
debt  of  16/.  London. 


4  EDWARD  IV.— Pabt  I, 


315 


1464. 
Oct.  17. 

Westminster. 

Oct.  22. 
Westminster. 


Oct.  23. 

Westminster. 

Oct.  18. 
Wesoninster. 


Oct  25. 

Westminster. 

Oct.  26. 
Westminster. 


Oct.  3. 

Weittminster. 


Oct.  25. 

Westminster. 


Oct.  30. 
Westminster. 


Oct.  16. 

Westminster. 


Oct.  18. 

Westminster. 


Oct.  28. 
Westminster. 


Oct.  18 

Westminster. 


Nov.  8. 
Westminster. 


Membrane  26— cant. 

Richard  Whjte  of  GroseberkTrke,  co.  Lincoln,  clerk,  for  not  appearing 
to  answer  Thomas  Rudde,  clerk,  touching  a  debt  of  17/.  IBs.  Sd. 

^Middlesex. 

William  Vicari  late  of  Bradenjnche,  co.  Devon,  'yoman/  for  not 
appearing  before  John  Prisot  and  his  fellows,  justices  of  the  Bench 
of  the  late  king,  to  answer  Robert  Kyrkeham,  clerk,  touching  a 
debt  of  15/.  Middlesex. 

John  Noreys  late  of  Henley  on  Thames,  co.  Oxford,  *  yomau,'  for  not 
appearing  before  the  justices  of  the  Bench  to  answer  William  Wylde 
touching  a  debt  of  13/.  6s,  Sd,  London. 

Henry  Edmondson  of  Thornour,  co.  York,  *  chapman,'  for  not  appear- 
ing before  John  Prysot  and  his  fellows,  justices  of  the  Bench  of  the 
late  king,  to  answer  Thomas  Scanseby,  citizen  and  mercer  of  York, 
touching  a  debt  of  409.  5d.  City  of  York. 

Edmund  Hyseby  of  London,  *  merchaunt,'  tor  not  appearing  to  answer 
William  Stokton,  citizen  and  mercer  of  York,  touching  a  debt  of  40/. 

City  of  York. 

William  There,  parson  of  the  church  of  Farnham,  co.  Buckingham, 
for  not  appearing  to  answer  Philippa  late  the  wife  of  Henry  Kent, 
citizen  and  draper  of  London,  who  died  intestate,  and  administratrix 
of  his  goods,  touching  a  debt  of  101«.  6d.  London. 

Alice  Hobbes  of  Norwich,  widow,  executrix  of  the  will  of  Beginald 
Hobbes  late  citizen  and  merchant  of  Norwich,  for  not  appearing 
before  the  justices  of  the  Bench  to  answer  a  plea  that  she  render  30/. 
to  Robert  Syred,  citizen  of  Norwich.  Norfolk, 

Thomas  Reynold  of  Herston,  co.  Cambridge,  '  husbondman,'  for  not 
appearing  to  answer  William  Haseley  touching  a  debt  of  7/. 

IMiddlesex. 

William  Pontesbury  late  of  Shrewsbury,  co.  Salop,  *  merchant,'  for 
not  appearing  to  answer  John  Colrede,  citizen  and  '  haberdassher ' 
of  London,  touching  a  debt  of  12/.  9«.  6d»  Middlesex. 

John  Hakeworthy  of  Exilond,  co.  Devon,  'marchaunt,'  for  not 
appearing  before  John  Prysot  and  his  fellows,  justices  of  the  Bench 
of  the  late  king,  to  answer  John  Warberton  touching  a  debt  of  40^. 

Devon. 

Thomas  Stubbys  late  of  York,  clerk,  for  not  appearing  before  the 
justices  of  the  Bench  to  answer  Christopher  Marshall  and  George 
Soulby  touching  a  debt  of  27/.  City  of  York. 

John  Fooke  late  of  Wysbeche,  co.  Cambridge,  *yoman,'  for  not 
appearing  to  answer  John  Elys  touching  a  debt  of  4/.     Huntingdon. 

Richard  Foston,  parson  of  the  parish  church  of  Bladerwyke  alias 
Blatherwyk,  co.  Northampton,  for  not  appearing  before  John 
Prysot  and  his  fellows,  justices  of  the  Bench  of  the  late  king,  to 
answer  William  Walyngton,  esquire,  and  Robert  Elirkeham,  clerk, 
keeper  of  the  hanaper  of  Chancery  of  the  late  king,  touching  debts 
of  20  marks  and  16/.  ISs.  respectively.       Nottingham  &  Middlesex. 

John  Helmesey  alias  Hemelsey  late  of  York,  'gentilman,'  for  not 
appearing  to  answer  William  Botreaux,  knight,  touching  a  debt  of 
200/.  Somerset. 

Thomas  Papley,  citizen  and  fishmonger  of  London,  for  not  appearing 
before  the  justices  of  the  Bench  to  answer  Henry  Brice,  citizen  and 
'  fuller '  of  London,  touching  a  debt  of  14/.  ld«.  id.  London. 


316 


OALENDAB  OF  PATENT  BOLLS. 


1464. 

Nov.  8. 
Wcstmioster. 

Oct.  17. 
Westminster. 


Oct.  28. 

Westminster. 


Nov.  9. 
Westminster. 


Nov.  12. 
Westminster. 

Oct.  16. 

Westminster. 


Nov.  12. 
Westminster. 


Nov.  10. 
Westminster. 


Nov.  12. 
Westminster. 

Oct.  28. 
Westminster. 

Nov.  12. 
Westminster. 

Nov.  14. 
Westminster. 


Nov.  3. 
Westminster. 

Nov.  14. 

Westminster. 


Mkmbrane  24. 

John  Lcche  of  Stratford,  co.  SufTolk, '  tanner/  for  not  appearing  to 
answer  Thomas  Barton  touching  a  debt  of  24/.  Suffolk. 

John  Pudde  of  Wolaston,  co.  Northampton,  the  jounger,  *  carter/  for 
not  appearing  to  answer  a  plea  that  he  render  6/.  to  William 
Chedword  and  John  Maplethorp,  clerk,  executors  of  the  will  of 
Nicholas  Wyfold,  alderman,  citizen  and  grocer  of  London,  and  John 
Noreys,  esquire,  and  Margaret  his  wife,  late  the  wife  of  the  said 
Nicholas  and  co-executrix  of  his  will.  Berks. 

Bichard  Cok  late  of  Warwick,  chaplain,  administrator  of  the  goods  id. 
Marjor}'  Coke  late  of  Shrewsbury,  who  died  intestate,  for  not 
appearing  before  John  Prysot  and  his  fellows,  justices  of  the  Bench 
of  the  late  king,  to  answer  John  Lambo,  citizen  and  grocer  of 
London,  touching  a  debt  of  40«.  London. 

Bobert  Spencer  late  of  Marleburgh,  co.  Wilts,  '  hnsbondman,'  for  not 
appearing  when  sued  with  William  Eyre  late  of  Great  Okeboume* 
CO.  Wilts,  '  husbondman/  before  the  justices  of  the  Bench  to  answer 
William  Walker  touching  a  trespass.  Gloucester. 

Bichard  Baker  of  Marleburgh,  co.  Wilts,  '  tanner/  for  not  appearing 
to  answer  Henry  Bycard  touching  a  debt  of  9  marks.  Oxford. 

Brian  Bouth  of  Great  Dryffeld,  co.  York,  *  gentilman/  for  not  appear- 
ing before  John  Prysot  and  his  fellows,  justices  of  the  Bench  of 
the  late  king,  to  answer  Jame.s  Pykeryng,  knight,  and  Bichard 
Frankleyn  touching  debts  of  40/.  and  5  marks  respectively. 

City  of  York. 

William  Kynge  of  St.  Neots,  co.  Huntingdon,  *  yoman,'  for  not  appev- 
ing  before  Bobert  Danby  and  his  fellows,  justices  of  the  Bench,  to 
answer  Bichard  Lee  of  London,  alderman,  and  John  Stokes,  citizen 
and  grocer  of  London,  touching  a  debt  of  11.  5s.  Sd.  London. 

Bobert  Thistildene  of  Stowemarket,  co.  Suffolk,  *dyer/  for  not 
appearing  before  John  Prysot  nnd  his  fellows,  justices  of  the  Bench 
of  the  late  king,  to  answer  William  Beale  of  Wodebregge  touching 
a  debt  of  8  marks.  Suffolk. 

William  Deny  of  London,  esquire,  for  not  appearing  to  answer  Thomas 
Skelton  touching  a  debt  of  40s.  Middlesex. 

Thomas  Warde  of  Faxton,  co.  Northampton,  ^  yoman/  alias  *  sengilman/ 
for  not  appearing  before  the  justices  of  the  Bench  to  answer 
Margaret,  duchess  of  Somerset,  touching  a  debt  of  20/.     Middlesex. 

John  Scotur  of  Daventre,  co.  Northampton,  *  yoman,'  for  not  appearing 
to  answer  John  Doo,  citizen  and  fishmonger  of  London,  toudiing  a 
debt  of  40^.  London. 

Balph  Eyton  of  Willey,  co.  Salop,  esquire,  for  not  appearing  to 
answer  Elizabeth,  countess  of  Shrewsbury,  touching  a  trespass 
committed  against  her  by  himself  and  John  Eyton  of  Shirlowe, 
CO.  Salop,  esquire,  William  Dodde  of  Calrowe,  co.  Salop,  ^  gentilman,' 
Thomas  Aleyn  of  Dalley,  co.  Salop,  *  yoman/  Thomas  Grene  of 
Dalley,  co  Salop,  '  yoman,'  William  Podmore  late  of  Dalley,  co. 
Salop,  '  yoman,'  Bichard  Pole  of  WaUyngton,  co.  Salop,  *  bocher/ 
and  Boger  Aleyn  of  WaUyngton,  co.  Salop,  *  bocher.*  York. 

John  Ekels  of  Claworth,  co.  Nottingham,  '  yoman,'  for  not  appearing 
to  answer  William  Porter,  one  of  the  yeomen  of  the  crown,  touching 
a  debt  of  20/.  Leicester. 

John  Eyton  of  Shirlowe,  co.  Salop,  esquire,  for  not  appearing  to 
answer  Elizabeth,  countess  of  Shrewsbury,  touching  a  trespass  com- 
mitted against  her  by  himself  and   Balph   Eyton  of  Willey,  co. 


4  EDWARD  IV.— Pabt  I. 


317 


1464. 


Nov.  17. 

Westminster. 

Nov.  13. 

Westminster. 

Nov.  16. 
Westminster. 

Oct.  20. 

Westminster. 

Nov.  3. 
Westminster. 


Nov.  IG. 
Westminster. 


Nov.  14. 
Westminster. 


Nov.  16. 
Westminster. 


Nov.  20. 
Westminster. 


Nov.  6. 
Westminster. 


Membrane  24 — cont, 

Salop,  esquire,  William  Dodde  of  Calrowe,  co.  Salop,  '  gentilman,' 
Thomas  Aleyn  of  Dallej,  co.  Salop,  ^yoman,*  Thomas  Grene  of 
Dalley,  co.  Salop,  'jonian,'  William  Podmore  late  of  Dalley,  co. 
Salop,  *'  yoman,'  Richard  Pole  of  WalljngtOD,  co.  Salop,  '  bocher,' 
and  Roger  Aleyn  of  Wallyngton,  co.  Stdop,  'bocher.'  York. 

Thomas  Ouby  of  Dyseworth.  co.  Leicester,  'husbondman'  alias 
'  yoman,'  for  not  appearing  to  answer  William  Babyngton,  esquire, 
touching  a  debt  of  9/.  ^  Nottingham. 

Simon  Forster  of  Chabeham,  co.  Surrey,  '  husbondman,'  for  not 
appearing  to  answer  William  Manory  touching  a  debt  of  16/. 

London. 

John  Wylle  late  of  Okehampton,  co.  Devon,  chaplain,  for  not 
appearing  to  answer  John  Skynner,  clerk,  touching  a  debt  of  10/. 

Middlesex. 

William  Pylcho  late  of  Estderham,  co.  Norfolk,  'gravour,'  for  not 
appearing  to  answer  Edmund  Westhorp  of  Bishop's  Lynn  and 
Edmund  Perys  touching  a  debt  of  40s.  Norfolk. 

Richard  Wyx  late  of  Tiverton,  co.  Devon,  clerk,  alias  late  of  Samp- 
ford  Courtenay,  co.  Devon,  alias  vicar  of  the  parish  church  of 
Lanfak,  co.  Cornwall,  to  answer  William  Palmere,  clerk,  touching  a 
debt  of  30/.  and  to  answer  a  plea  that  he  render  4/.  1  Id.  to  William 
Norton,  esquire,  John  Markwyke,  clerk,  Richard  Bonaautre,  clerk, 
and  Walter  Noreys,  executors  of  the  will  of  Richard  Nordoo,  late 
citizen  and  tailor  of  London.  Devon  &  London. 

John  Watkyns  late  of  Straungebetton,  co.  Salop,  ^  hnsbondeman,'  alias 
John  Waters  alias  John  Cause,  for  not  appearing  to  answer  Nicholas 
Clerk,  citizen  and  skinner  of  London,  touching  a  debt  of  7/.  3«.  4</. 

Middlesex. 

Richard  Dey  of  Chirchehill,  co.  Somerset,  ^  husbondman,'  for  not 
appearing  before  John  Prysot  and  his  fellows,  justices  of  the  Bench 
of  the  late  king  to  answer  Robert  Northern,  touching  a  debt  of  5 
marks  2s.  6d,  Middlesex. 

John  Kaynesham  late  of  Frome  in  Selwode,  co.  Somerset,  *  glover,'  for 
not  appearing  before  the  justices  of  the  Bench  to  answer  William 
Taylour,  citizen  and  grocer  of  London,  touching  a  debt  of  40^. 

London. 

John  Hervy  late  of  Helme,  co.  Cambridge,  'husbondman,'  for  not 
appearing  to  answer  Clement  Goldeham  of  London, '  dyer/  touching 
a  debt  of  1 00s.  London. 

Richard  Medilton  late  of  Elme,  co.  Cambridge,  '  husbondman,'  for  not 
appearing  to  answer  the  said  Clement  touching  a  debt  of  10  marks. 

London. 

John  Hone  of  Halberton,  co.  Devon,  'yoman,'  for  not  appearing 
before  the  late  king  to  answer  John  Gambon  touching  a  trespass. 

Devon. 


Nov.  26. 
WefltmiDtter. 

Nov.  28. 
We«tmiii8ter. 


Mbmbrans  23. 

John  Cope  of  Devyses,  co.  Wilts,  '  wever,'  for  not  appearing  before 
the  justices  of  the  Bench  to  answer  Thomas  Bagot  touching  a  debt 
of  OOr.  Wats. 

Richard  Serman  late  of  Ludlowe,  co.  Salop, '  chapman,' for  not  appear- 
ing to  answer  John  Colrede,  citizen  and  <  haberdassher '  of  London, 
alias  *  maichant,'  touching  a  debt  of  7/.  Middlesex. 


318 


CALENDAR  OF  PATENT  BOLLS. 


1464. 

Nov.  20. 
Westminster. 


Nov.  28. 
WeetmiiiBter. 


Nov,  11. 
WestmiDBter. 


Oct.  17. 
Westminster. 

1465. 

Feb.  12. 
Westminster. 


Feb.  12. 
Westminster. 


Jan.  23. 
Westminster. 


Membrane  28 — cant. 

John  Homme  late  of  Swanwjch,  co.  Dorset,  clerk,  for  not  appearing 
before  John  Prjsot  and  his  fellows,  justices  of  the  Bench  of  the  late 
king,  to  answer  Thomas  Loughton,  citizen  and  tailor  of  London, 
touching  a  debt  of  10/.  London. 

John  Barljng  of  Crykesethe,  co.  Essex,  ^  yoman,'  €di(M  late  of  Kjrk 
Hjthe,  00.  Essex,  alicLs  of  Orjkeshithe,  co.  Essex,  for  not  appearing 
beifbre  the  jastices  of  the  Bench  to  answer  Thomas  CoUej  of  the 
parish  of  St.  Clement  Danes  without  the  bar  of  the  New  Temple, 
London,  '  goidsmyth,'  ali<i8  late  of  the  town  of  Westminster,  touching 
a  debt  of  11/.  6s,  4J.  Middlesex. 

Michael  Garnon  of  Wyngrave,  co.  Buckingham,  'yoman,*  for  not 
appearing  before  the  justices  of  the  Bench  of  the  late  king  to 
answer  Edmund  Hampden,  knight,  late  esquire,  and  John  Hurewode 
of  Wondovere  touching  a  debt  of  30/.  Oxford. 

Walter  Tredewey,  late  of  Bykmersworth,  co.  Hertford, '  yoman,'  and 
Margaret  his  wife,  for  not  appearing  before  the  king  to  answer  John 
Lyuster  touching  a  trespass.  London. 

Adam  Ellerby  of  EUerby  in  Whitbystrand,  co.  York,  ^yoman,'  for 
not  appearing  when  sued  with  Robert  Duncan,  late  of  Barleby 
by  Selby,  co.  York,  'yoman,'  and  Thomas  Abote  of  Barowby  in 
Whitbystrand,  co.  York,  ^yoman/  to  answer  Richard  Wryght 
touching  a  trespass.  York. 

William  Hoddesole,  late  of  the  parish  of  Lye  near  Tunbrygge,  co. 
Kent,  for  not  appearing  before  the  justices  of  the  Bench  to  answar 
John  Norys,  citizen  and  skinner  of  London,  Alice  Groldwyn,  late 
widow,  alias  Alice  the  wife  of  John  Birlyng,  executor  of  the  will  of 
Thomas  Goldwyn,  citizen  and  skinner  of  London,  and  John  Birlyng 
her  husband,  touching  a  debt  of  40«.  Loudon. 

Geoffrey  Thorp,  late  of  Gloston,  co.  Leicester, '  drover,'  alias  late  of 
Iseldon,  co.  Middlesex,  *  laborer,'  for  not  appearing  to  answer  John 
Cowper  of  Syleby  and  Richard  Michell  of  Syleby  touching  a  debt  of 
5  marks,  Middlesex. 


1464. 

Nov.  5. 
Westminster. 


Nov.  16. 
Westminster. 


Nov.  3. 
Westminster. 

Nov.  14. 
Westminster. 


MSMBRANB  22. 

John  Overey  of  Eentford,  co.  Suffolk,  ^  skynnere,'  for  not  appearing 
before  John  Prysot  and  his  fellows,  justices  of  the  Bench  of  the 
late  king,  to  answer  John  Bernard  of  Northelmham,  co.  Norfolk, 
Thomas  Baxtere  of  Stanhowe,  and  William  Bernard  of  Swanton, 
touching  a  debt  of  100^.  Norfolk. 

Edward  Croke,  late  parson  of  the  parish  church  of  Lylly,  co. 
Hertford,  for  not  appearing  before  the  justices  of  the  Bench 
to  answer  Robert  Thrylwall,  clerk,  touching  a  debt  of  40/. 

Middlesex. 

William  atte  Wille  of  the  parish  of  Eeune,  co.  Devon,  ^  husbondman,' 
for  not  appearing  to  answer  William  Wolston  of  the  county  of 
Lancaster,  'gentilman,'  touching  a  debt  of  10/.  Middlesex. 

Everard  Brigge,  cUicu  Bregge,  citizen  and  mercer  of  London,  for  not 
appearing  before  Richard  Neuton  and  his  fellows,  justices  of  the  Bench 
of  the  late  kins,  to  answer  John  Goderyk  and  John  Sturgeon,  citizen 
and  mercer  of  London,  touching  debts  of  .30/.  and  8/.  respectively, 
and  for  not  appearing  before  John  Prysot  and  his  fellows,  justices 
of  the  Bench  of  the   late  king,  to  answer  a  plea  that  he  render 


4  EDWARD  IV.— Part  L 


319 


1464. 


1466. 

Jan.  23. 
Westminster. 


Jan.  24. 

WestminBter. 


Jan.  25. 
Westminster. 


Jan.  26. 
Westminster. 


Jan.  26. 
Westminster. 


Jan.  27. 

Westminster. 


Jan.  26. 
Westminster. 


Feb.  6. 
Westminster. 


Feb.  8. 
Westminster. 


Membrane  22 — cont. 

100/.  to  John  Selot,  clerk,  John  Funnage,  chaplain,  nnd  Edmund 
Couper,  executors  of  the  will  of  William  Ede,  late  of  Laxfeld. 

London. 


John  Brokesby,  late  of  Fry  shy  on  Wreke,  co.  Leicester,  esquire,  for 
not  appearing  before  the  justices  of  the  Bench  to  answer  Thomas 
Gray  the  elder,  citizen  and  tailor  of  London,  and  George  Chapman, 
touching  debts  of  18/.  and  25/.  respectively. 

London  and  Lincoln. 

Johli  Chapman  of  Kylpin,  co.  York,  *  carpenter,'  for  not  appearing 
before  the  justices  of  the  Bench  of  the  late  king  to  answer  Thomas 
Hamerton  touching  a  trespass.  Essex. 

Thomas  Bras,  late  of  Barnestapyll,  co.  Devon,  'touker,'  for  not 
appearing  when  sued  with  Richard  Holymore,  late  of  Barnestapyll, 
CO.  Devon,  'taillour,'  and  Thomas  Monke,  late  of  Barnestapyll, 
CO.  Devon,  *  touker,'  before  John  Prysot  and  his  fellows,  justices  of 
the  Bench  of  the  late  king,  to  answer  John  Terde  touching  a 
trespass.  Middlesex. 

Simon  Doyly,  late  of  Banbury,  co.  Oxford,  '  husbondman,'  for  not 
appearing  before  the  justices  of  the  Bench  of  the  late  king  to 
answer  Bichard  Lessuham  and  Alice  his  wife  touching  a  debt  of  20/. 

Middlesex. 

Simon  Gait,  late  of  Wredelyngton,  co.  Suffolk,  *  shepherd,'  cUias  of 
Wyrlyngton,  co.  Suffolk,  '  husbondman,'  for  not  appearing  before 
Richard  Newton  and  his  fellows,  justices  of  the  Bench  of  the 
late  king,  to  answer  Andrew  Grene  of  Rysby  touching  a  debt  of 
10/.  and  when  sued  with  John  Bovere  of  Wyrlyngton,  *  husbond- 
man,'  John  Lacy  of  Wyrlyngton,  ^  husbondman,'  and  John  Googche 
of  Wyrlyngton,  *  husbondman,'  to  answer  Reginald  Rous  touching  a 
trespass.  Suffolk. 

John  Asschenden,  late  of  Bishop's  Lynn,  co.  Norfolk,  the  elder, 
^mercer,'  for  not  appearing  before  the  justices  of  the  Bench  to 
answer  John  Pellam  of  London,  'mercer,'  touching  a  debt  of 
26/.  12J.  London. 

John  Hale,  late  of  Tunbrig^,  co.  Kent,  ^  yoman,'  for  not  i^pearing 
before  John  Prysot  and  his  fellows,  justices  of  the  Bench  of  the 
late  king,  to  answer  Thomas  Cook,  citizen  and  draper  of  London, 
dwelling  in  the  parish  of  St.  Christopher,  London,  touching  a  debt 
of  20/.  Middlesex. 

Philip  Scorche  of  Otery  St.  Mary,  co.  Devon, '  husbondman,'  for  not 
appearing  when  sued  with  William  Wray  of  Payembury,  co.  Devon, 
clerk,  William  Doke  of  Payembury,  *  smyth,'  John  Olde  of  Pay- 
embury,  *  haly  waterclerke,'  William  Bole  of  Payembury, '  husbond- 
man,' William  Salter  of  Fyneton,  co.  Devon,  *  husbondman,'  Henry 
Salter  of  Fyneton,  *  brome,'  John  Salter  of  Otery  St.  Mary,  *  wever,' 
and  Robert  Robyn  of  Otery  St.  Mary,  *  tayllour,'  to  answer  Andrew 
Hilleresdon  touching  a  trespass.  Devon. 

William  OeiUard  of  Wedmore,  co.  Somerset,  'chapman,'  for  not 
appearing  before  the  justices  of  the  Bench  to  answer  Geoffrey 
Feldyng,  citizen  and  mercer  of  London,  teaching  a  debt  of  10/.  I6s.  Sd. 

Middlesex. 

William  Gurlyn  late  of  Gurlyn,  co.  Cornwall,  'gentilman,'  for  not 
appearing  to  answer  Roger  Martyn,  citizen  and  brewer  of  London, 
touching  a  debt  of  40#.  London. 


320 


CALENDAR  OF  PATENT  ROLLS. 


1465. 

Feb.  5. 

Westminster. 


Feb.  8. 
Westminster. 


1464. 

Nov.  20. 
Westminster.' 


1465. 

Feb.  8. 
Westminster. 

Feb.  5. 
Westminster. 


Feb.  9. 
Westminster. 


Feb.  11. 

Westminster. 


Feb.  10. 
Westminster. 


Membrane  22 — cont, 

John  Toser  of  Detysham,  co.  Devon,  ^  husbondman/  alias  of  Stok- 
fflemyng,  oo.  Devon,  ^  husbondman/  for  not  appearing  before  John 
Prysot  and  his  fellows,  justices  of  the  Bench  of  the  late  king,  to 
answer  John  Derby  touching  a  debt  of  40«.  and  Hugh  You  touching 
a  trespass.  Devon. 

William  Travereff  of  Nantothan,  co.  Cornwall,  'gentilman/  for  not 
appearing  before  the  justices  of  the  Bench  to  answer  Roger  Marty n, 
citizen  and  brewer  of  London,  touching  a  debt  of  10  marks. 

London. 

William  Aps  late  of  Lamberherot,  co.  Kent,  ^  husbondman,'  for  not 
appearing  to  answer  a  plea  that  he  render  10/.  to  Robert  son  of 
Reginald  Derlyngton,  late  citizen  and  fishmonger  of  London,  and 
William  Clyfford,  citizen  and  fishmonger  of  London,  executors  of 
the  will  of  the  said  Reginald.  Middlesex. 

John  Lollam  of  Stretham,  co.  Cambridge,  '  husbondroan,'  for  not 
appearing  to  answer  Stephen  Godinan  touching  a  debt  of  40«. 

Middlesex. 

John  Wade  of  Ospreng,  co.  Kent,  ^  yoman,'  aluis  late  of  Osprynge, 
CO.  Kent,  ^  husbondman/  for  not  appearing  before  John  Prysot  and 
his  fellows,  justices  of  the  Bench  of  the  late  king,  to  answer 
Richard  Thornbury  alias  Thorneberye,  citizen  and  draper  of 
London,  and  William  Corbet,  citizen  and  *•  iremonger '  of  London, 
touching  debts  of  10/.  and  4Qs.  respectively.  London. 

Richard  Gillyng  of  Saxthorpe,  co.  Norfolk,  <  laborer,'  alias  ^  husbond- 
man,'  for  not  appearing  to  answer  John  Madson  and  Robert  Dene 
touching  debts  of  5  marks  6«.  Sd.  and  40«.  respectively. 

City  of  Norwich. 

Richard  Mountfort  of  Ilmymlon,  co.  Warwick,  clerk,  for  not  appearing 
when  sued  with  Robert  Rugeley  of  Shenston,  co.  Stafford,  ^  yoman,' 
before  the  justices  of  the  Bench  to  answer  Thomas  Walsshe  touching 
a  debt  of  40/.  .  Leicester. 

John  Dymmok  of  Ely,  co.  Cambridge,  ^  husbondraan,'  for  not  appearing 
to  answer  Stephen  Godman  touching  a  debt  of  4  marks.    Middlesex. 

John  Bawdewyn  late  of  Charwelton,  co.  Northampton, '  husbondman,' 
for  not  appearing  to  answer  Richard  Clarell  touching  a  debt  of  30/. 

Northampton. 

Simon  Smyth  late  of  Spaldj^ng,  co.  Lincoln,  '  flaxchapman,'  for  not 
appearing  before  John  Prysot  and  his  fellows,  justices  of  tiie  Bench 
of  the  late  king,  to  answer  Christopher  Halgh  touching  a  debt 
of  40f .  Lincoln. 

John  Brigge  late  of  Kegworth,  co.  Leicester,  'gentilman/  for  not 
appearing  before  the  justices  of  the  Bench  to  answer  William 
Stotesbury  of  Loudon  and  John  Wentworth  of  London  touching  a 
debt  of  100«.  London. 


1464. 


Membrane  21. 


March  20.  Ghrant  to  Hugh  Wyche,  citizen  and  alderman  of  London,  in  repayment  of 
WMtminster.  the  sum  of  21/.  lent  by  1dm  to  John  Rygby  on  the  security  of  divers  lands 
and  tenements  mortgaged,  and  expended  by  the  latter  on  the  costs  of 
himself  and  his  company  in  the  service  of  the  king  on  his  first  journey  to 
the  north,  that  he  or  his  executors  after  his  decease  may  ship  woollen  cloths 
of  any  colour  quit  of  all  customs  and  subsidies  due  to  the  king,  beyond  the 


4  EDWARD  IV.— Pabt  I.  821 


1464.  Membrane  21 — cont, 

20f.  appointed  for  Calais  by  authority  of  Parliament,  in  the  ports  of  London 
or  Southampton  to  any  foreign  parts,  until  he  shall  be  fully  satisfied  of  the 
«aid  0um.  By  K. 

March  16.  Pardon,  for  20s,  paid  in  the  hanaper,  to  Richard  Wymeldon  of  his  trespass 
WeBtminster.  in  acquiring  in  fee  from  Isabel  Wymeldon  late  the  wife  of  Ralph  Wymeldon 
of  Mikelham,  co.  Surrey,  661  acres  of  land,  76  acres  of  pasture,  3  acres  of 
wood  and  7s.  of  rent  in  Mykelham,  co.  Surrey,  by  the  name  of  the  third 
part  of  the  manor  of  Mykelham,  held  in  chief,  and  entering  theroon  without 
licence ;  and  licence  for  him  to  retain  the  same. 

March  17.  Whereas  the  king's  progenitor  Edmund,  earl  of  March,  in  his  last  will 
Westminster,  ordained  that  in  case  of  his  decease  without  lawful  issue  the  feoffees  of  his 
lands  immediately  after  the  payment  of  his  debts  should  deliver  sufiicient 
estate  in  lands  and  tenements  to  Thomas  Gray  and  Isabel  his  wife,  the 
king's  aunt,  niece  of  the  said  earl,  to  the  yearly  value  of  300  marks,  to  hold 
to  them  and  the  heirs  of  their  bodies  with  remainder  to  the  right  heirs  of 
the  said  Isabel,  and  also  that  after  the  decease  of  Anne  his  consort  and  the 
payment  of  her  debts  they  should  deliver  like  estate  to  them  to  the  value  of 
600  marks  yearly,  and  the  said  earl  has  long  since  died  without  issue  of  his 
body  and  also  the  said  Anne,  but  the  said  estate  has  not  yet  been  made ;  the 
king  now  grants  to  his  kinsman  Henry,  earl  of  Essex,  and  the  said  Isabel, 
countess  of  Essex,  now  his  consort,  and  her  heirs,  at  their  supplication,  the 
manors  of  Dagenhams  and  Cokerelles  in  Haveryng,  co.  Essex,  and  all  lands 
in  that  town  called  *  Wrightes,'  with  adowsons,  rents,  services,  knights'  fees, 
wards,  marriages,  views  of  frank-pledge,  courts,  liberties,  franchises,  escheats, 
free  warrens,  pensions  and  all  other  profits,  in  part  satisfaction  of  the  above. 

ByK. 

March  22.  Grant  in  frank  almoin  to  John,  the  abbot,  and  the  convent  of  the 
HTeiitniiiister.  monastery  of  St.  Mary,  Halesowen,  co.  Salop,  in  consideration  of  the 
decrease  of  their  fruits  and  profits,  of  the  house  or  priory  cf  Doddeford, 
CO.  Worcester,  of  the  order  of  St.  Augustine,  which  has  come  so  nearly  to 
dissolution  that  for  a  long  time  only  one  canon  has  remained  there ;  and 
licence  for  the  bishop  of  Worcester  to  unite  the  same.  [Monasticon^  vol. 
vL,  p.  944.]  By  p.s.  and  for  10/.  paid  in  the  hanaper* 

March  26.        General  pardon  by  advice  of  the  council  to  Thomas  Tresham,  knight,  of 

Wettminster.  all  offences  of  which    he  was  attainted    by    authority  of  Parliament  at 

Westminster,  4  November  1  Edward  IV.  By  K. 

April  20.        Grant  for  life  to  John  Pylkyngton,  one  of  the  esquires  of  the  body,  of 

WeBtmiotter.  the  manors  of  Turvy  and  Busshe,  co.  Dublin,  with  all  appurtenances  and 

advowsons  and  all  lands,  rents,  services,  courts,  profits  and  commodities  in 

Turvy  and  Rusahe,  late  of  James  Botiller,  earl  of  Wiltshire,  rendering  to 

the  king  a  red  rose  at  Midsummer.  By  p.s. 

April  21*  Revocation  of  the  protection  with  clause  volumus,  for  one  year,  granted 
WestmioBter.  31  March  last  by  letters  patent  to  William  Mathewe  late  of  Norwich  alias 
of  Southwerk,  co.  Surrey,  'bocher,'  going  on  the  king's  service  in  the 
company  of  John  Wode,  king's  esquire,  victualler  of  the  town  and  castle  of 
Calais  and  the  marches  adjacent  in  the  parts  of  Picardy,  on  the  safe-custody, 
defence  and  victualling  of  the  same,  on  certificate  by  the  sheriff*  of  Norfolk 
that  he  delays  at  Trowes,  co.  Norfolk. 


Mbmbranm  20. 

March  5.        Pardon  to  John  Bocher  of  Stoke  Edith,  co.  Hereford,  '  husbandeman,' 
Westmintlcr.   for  having  in  self  defence  mortally  wounded  Thomas  Edmond  late  of  Stoke 
Edith  in  a  sudden  afiray  at  Stoke  Edith  on  Thursday  before  the  Assump- 
tion, 2  Edward  IV.  By  p.8. 

u'  86914.  X 


322 


CALENDAB  OF  PATENT  BOLLS. 


Membrane  20 — cont, 

Lioenoe  with  the  assent  of  the  oaancil  for  the  abbot  and  convent  of  St. 
Marjy  Fournes,  to  absent  themselves  from  Lrelaod  for  20  years  and  in 
the  mean  time  to  receive  the  profits  of  all  their  lands  and  possessions  there. 

By  pA 

Qrant  to  JEUehard  Spikemaill  iUitu  Dyrek  Spikernaill  of  Suthwerk, 
*  armerer/  born  in  the  parts  of  Teulony  (  TtUauie)f  of  letters  <^  denisation. 

By  p^.  and  for  6».  Sd,  paid  in  the  hanaper. 

General  pardon  to  John  SpeUer  late  of  Ely,  co.  Cambridge,  ^  hnsbond* 
man,'  of  all  offences  committed  by  him  before  7  March  last.  By  p.s. 

March  6.        Grant  to  the  king's  kinsman  Greorge,  bishop  of  Exeter,  in  repajrment  of 

Weetmiiister.  the  sum  of  200/.  lent  by  him  to  the  king,  of  2001,  horn  the  second  moiety 

of  a  fifteenth  granted  to  the  king  by  the  commons  of  the  realm  in  the  last 

Parliament  to  bo  levied  at  the  feast  of  the  Annunciation  next  by  the  hands 

of  the  collectors  in  the  county  of  Somerset.  By  K. 


1464. 

March  8. 
Westminster. 


March  11. 

Westminster, 

March  13. 
Wettminster. 


March  15. 

Westminfter. 


March  21. 
Westminster. 


Ghrant  to  Jobn  Walbrond,  prebendary  of  Cerdestoko  aiias  Cherdestoke 
in  the  cathedral  of  Salisbury,  of  a  prebend  within  the  free  chapel  of 
St.  Stephen  within  the  king's  palace  of  Westminster,  on  an  exchange  of 
benefices  with  Bobert  Stillyngton.  By  K. 

Mandate  in  pursaance  to  the  dean  of  the  said  free  chapel. 

March  17.        General  pardon  to  Vincent  dementis,  professor  of  theology,  subdeacon 
Westmuister.  of  the  pope,  collector-general  in  England  and  nuncio  of  the  apostolic  see. 

ByK. 

Feb.  6.  Grant  for  life  to  Thomas  Frank  of  the  office  of  one  of  the  king's  Serjeants- 

Westminster,  at-arms,  with  wages  of  I2d,  daily  from  the  farm  and  issues  of  the  city  of 
London  and  county  of  Middlesex  and  a  livery  of  the  suit  of  other  serjeants- 
at-arms  yearly  at  the  great  wardrobe. 

Vacated  because  elsewhere  in  the  third  year, 

March  18.        Greneral  pardon  to   Thomas   Biset    of  the   town  of   Westminster,  co. 

Westminster.  Middlesex,  ^  marchaunt,'  alias  Thomas  Byset  of  Westminster,  *  yoman,' 
alias  Thomas  Bysettere  of  Westminster,  ^taverner/  for  all  offences 
committed  by  him  before  16  March  last.  By  p.a. 

Grant  in  frank  almoin  to  Henry  Sampson,  the  dean,  and  the  chapter  of 
the  collegiate  church  of  Westbury,  co.  Gloucester,  of  the  manor  of 
Aylmynstre  alias  Elmystre,  co.  Gloucester,  with  courts  leet,  views  of 
f rank-pledge,  privileges,  liberties,  profits  and  conmiodities,  that  they  may 
pray  for  the  good  estate  of  the  king  and  Cicely  his  mother  and  for  their 
souls  after  death  and  the  souls  of  Richard,  duke  of  York,  the  king's  father, 
and  Edmund,  earl  of  Boteland,  his  brother.    IMonasticon^  vol.  vi.,  p.  14S9.] 

By  p.s. 

Grant  to  George,  abbot  of  the  monastery  of  St.  Peter,  Westminster,  of  all 
issues  and  profits  of  the  temporalities  of  the  abbey  within  the  realm, 
belonging  to  the  king  by  reason  of  the  voidance  of  the  abbey  by  the 
resignation  of  Edmund,  late  abbot,  from  the  first  day  of  the  said  voidance 
until  18  March,  3  Edward  lY.  without  rendering  anything  to  the  king  at 
the  Exchequer  or  elsewhere.  By  p.s. 

Presentation  of  Richard  White,  chaplain,  to  the  parish  church  of  St, 
Saviour  alias  Bokard,  in  the  diocese  of  Terouanne,  void  by  the  resignation 
of  John  Salmon  of  the  order  of  Friara  Preachers.  The  letters  are  directed 
to  Th.  archbishop  of  Canterbury. 

Mandate  to  all  to  permit  John  Abbot  cUias  Lam,  chaplain,  bom  in  the 
city  of  St.  Andrews  in  Scotland,  dwelling  at  Greane,  oo.  Kent,  who  has 
taken  an  oath  of  fealty,  to  inhabit  the  redm  peaceably  and  enjoy  his  goods. 

By  p.s. 


March  19. 

Westminster. 


March  23. 
Westminster. 


April  5. 
Westminster. 


4  EDWARD  IV.— Pakt  L  323 


1464.  Membrane  19. 

March  \2.        Appointment,  until  12  Septembei\  of  Richard  More  to  purvey  oxeo, 
WestminBter.  muttons,  salt-  Hnd  fresh-water  fish  and  other  necessaries  for  the  office  of 
bujer  of  the  king's  household  and  carriage  for  the  same. 

By  bill  of  the  treasurer  of  the  household. 
The  like  of  the  following  : — 
Henry  Forthe. 
Robert  Ooode. 
Richard  Jeny. 
March  18.        Appointment,  during  pleasure,  of  Thomas  Grene  as  deputy  and  lieu- 
WMtmtnster.  tenant  of  John  Weiilok,  lord  of  Wenlok,  knight,  chief  butler  of  England, 
in  the  port  of  Ipswich  and  ports  and  places  adjacent. 

By  bill  of  the  chief  butler. 

March  23.  Ghiint  to  Humphrey  Stafford  of  Southwyk,  king's  knight,  and  the  heirs 
Westminster,  male  of  his  body  of  the  manor  and  borough  of  l^vertou,  the  hundred  of 
Tyverton  with  its  appurtenances  and  the  advowsons  of  three  portions  with 
cures  in  the  church  of  Tyverton,  the  castles,  lordships,  manors,  boroughs 
and  hundreds  of  Plympton  and  Okehehampton,  the  manor  and  borough  of 
Chalvelegh,  the  manors  of  Colcombe,  Colyton,  Musbury,  Colyford, 
Whitford,  and  Sampford  Courtenay,  co.  I>evon,  and  all  lands  and  tenements 
of  the  king  in  those  places,  with  knights'  fees,  advowsons*  hundreds, 
courts  leet,  views  of  frank  pledge,  fairs,  markets,  free  chaces,  fisheries, 
wreck  of  sea,  chattels  of  felons  and  fugitives,  wanens  and  all  other 
liberties,  in  the  king's  hands  by  reason  of  an  act  of  Parliament  at  West- 
minster, 4  November,  1  Edward  lY.  and  all  issues  of  the  same  from 
Michaelmas,  1  Edward  IV.  By  K. 

March  20.        Exemplification  of  letters  patent  dated  30  June,  1  Edward   lY.  («ee 
Westmiuster.  p.  47),  being  a  grant  for  life  to  Ralph  Hastynges,  esquire  of  the  body,  of 

the  office  of  the  custody  of  the  king's  lions  within  the  Tower  of  London. 

The  above  letters  have  been  casually  lost,  as  John  Frayne  has  made  oath 

before  the  king  in  Chancery,  and,  if  found,  they  will  be  surrendered  and 

cancelled. 

April  6.  Licence,  for  6  marks  paid  in  the  hanaper,  for  John  Knyvet,  esquire, 

Westminster,  kinsman  and  heir  of  John  Glyfton,  knight,  to  grant  the  manor  of  Old 
Bokenham  and  two  parts  of  the  manor  of  Gryshagh,  co.  Norfolk,  held 
in  chief,  to  the  king's  brother  Qeorge,  duke  of  Glai^nce,  the  king's  kins- 
man George,  bishop  of  Exeter,  Edmund  Grey  of  Ruthyn,  knight,  John 
Howard,  knight,  William  Knyvet,  esquire,  John  Stokes,  Alvred  Come- 
burgh,  esquire,  William  Fasten,  esquire,  Edmund  Elnyve^  esquire,  Robert 
Toppes  the  elder,  Henry  Colet,  John  Lynne,  William  Petit,  clerk,  Hugh 
John  and  Nicholas  Clapham  in  fee  simple. 

Pardon  to  John  Wakeryng,  the  master,  and  the  brethren  of  the  hospital 
of  St.  Bartholomew,  Westsmythfeld,  London,  in  consideration  of  the  wo^s 
done  within  the  hospital  in  the  relief  of  poor  pilgrims,  soldiers,  sailors 
and  others  of  all  nations,  of  all  acquisitions  in  mortmain  by  them  without 
licence.  By  K. 

April  9.  General  pardon  to  William  Newport,  citizen  and  tailor  of  London,  eUiat 

Westminster.  <  tailour,'  alias  *'  jomsjiy*  of  all  offences  committed  by  him  before  7  April. 

By  p.s. 

Membrane  18. 

March  16.       Appointment  with  the  consent  of  the  council,  during  pleasure,  of  William 
Westminster.  Harecourt,  knight,  as  sheriff  of  the  counties  of  Warwick  and  Leicester. 

By  p.8. 

March  22.        Grant  to  the  king's  servitors  Master  William  Hatteclyffe,  the  king's 
Westminster,  physician    and  Maurice  Burghyll,  esquire,  of  the  office  of  the  exchange 

X  2 


324  CALENDAR  OP  PATENT  ROLLS. 


1464.  Membrane  18 — cont. 

within  the  town  of  Calais  and  the  office  of  the  exchange  within  the  realm  of 
England  towards  foreign  parts  for  10  years  from  Michaelmas  last,  rendering 
to  the  king  20/.  yearly  as  formerly  and  10/.  yearly  of  increment.  They 
shall  have  the  sole  right  of  holding  an  exchange  in  the  said  town  of  Calais 
and  within  the  realm  and  there  buying  and  selling  and  exposing  for  sale 
gold  and  silver  in  bullion  and  coin  and  nil  kinds  of  jewels  to  all  persons 
going  to  the  court  of  Rome  or  elsewhere.  By  p.s. 

March  21.  Grant  to  the  king's  sister  Anne  for  the  sustenance  of  the  king*s  kins- 
Westminster,  men  Henry,  duke  of  Buckingham,  and  Humphrey  his  brother,  minors 
and  in  the  king's  custody,  of  500  marks  yearly  during  their  minority  or 
the  minority  of  either  of  them  from  the  issues  of  the  king's  lordships  of 
Breknok,  Newport,  WentUoye,  Hay  and  Huntyngdon  with  their  members 
and  appurtenances  in  South  Wales.  By  K. 

March  28.  Revocation  of  the  protection  with  clause  volumua^  for  one  year,  granted 
Westminster.  9  February  by  letters  patent  to  John  Shirwode  of  Coventre,  *  marchaunt,' 
alifis  late  of  Alspath,  co.  Warwick,  esquire,  staying  on  the  king's  service 
in  the  company  of  John  Wode,  king's  esquire,  victualler  of  the  town  and 
castle  of  Calais,  on  the  safe-custody,  defence  and  victualling  of  the  same 
in  the  parts  of  Picardy  because  he  delays  at  Alspath,  co.  Warwick,  as 
appears  by  certificate  of  the  sheriff  of  the  county. 

March  24.        General  pardon  to  John  Eton  cdicLs  Heton  alifzs  Eyton  late  of  Banbury, 
Westminster,  co.  Oxford, '  gentilman.'  By  p.s. 

March  12.        General  pardon  to  Joan  Jenkynson  of  the  city  of  Canterbury,  widow. 
Westminster.  By  p.s. 

April  4.  Grant  to  John  Norman,  William  Marowe  and  Hugh  Wyche,  aldermen 
Westminster,  of  London,  of  115/.  3*.  3«?.  from  certain  subsidies  of  wools,  hides  and  wool- 
fells,  tin,  lead,  and  other  merchandise  in  the  port  of  Suthamptou  and 
ports  and  places  adjacent,  in  repayment  of  11 />/.  Zs.  Sd.  lent  by  them  to 
the  king  on  7  July,  o  Edward  IV.  in  lieu  of  a  tally  at  the  receipt  of  the 
Exchequer  on  the  s^me  7  July  on  the  collectora  of  the  first  moiety  of  an 
aid  of  37,000/.  and  7,000/.  parcel  of  the  same  granted  to  the  king  by  the 
laity  in  that  year  in  the  city  of  London,  which  they  intend  to  surrender  at 
the  receipt  of  the  Exchequer  because  they  have  obtained  no  payment. 

ByK. 

April  7.  Protection,  for  four  years,  for  all   the  timber,  stones,  tiles,  and  other 

Westminster,  materials  which  William  Taillour,  citizen  and  alderman  of  London,  has 
collected  for  the  building  of  certain  edifices  within  the  city,  and  the 
carpenters,  stone-cutters  and  other  artificers  with  whom  he  has  made 
agreement  for  the  same.  The  clerk  of  the  king's  works  and  other  officers 
of  the  king  shall  not  take  any  of  the  above  against  his  will.  By  p.s. 

April  9.  General  pardon  to  Thomas  Persons  late  of  Ely,  co.  Cambridge,  '  gentil- 

Westminster.   man,'  alias  late  of  Loudon.  By  K. 

Membrane  17. 

March  15.        General  pardon  to  John  Cokeyn  of  Ely,  co.  Cambridge,  *  husbondman,' 
Westminster,   for  all  offences  committed  by  him  before  14  March  last.  By  p.s« 

The  like  to  John  Newton  late  of  Ely,  co.  Cambridge,  *  bocher.'      By  p.s. 

April  19.         Grant  to  the  king's  servant  and  physician  Master  William  Hattechyf  of 

^Vc8tminste^.  80/.  from  the  issues  of  the  king's  lordship  of  Kyrketon  in  Lyndesey,  co. 

Lincoln,  in  repayment  of  the  same  sum  lent  by  him  to  the  king.        By  p.s. 

April  21.         Pardon  to  William  Appulton  late  of  Pecham  in  the  parish  of  Camerwell, 
Westminster,  co.  Surrey  *  gentilman,'  of  his  outlawry  in  the  county  of  Surrey  for  not 
appearing  before  the  king  to  satisfy  him  of  his  ransom  for  a  trespass  com- 
mitted against  Thomas  Acton  contrary  to  the  statute  of  forcible  entry,  he 


4  EDWARD  IV.— Part  I.  325 


1464.  Menihrane  17 — cont. 

having  snrrendered  to  the  Marshalsea  prison,  as  John  Markham,  knight, 
chief  justice  of  the  King's  Bench,  has  certified. 

April  24.        Creation  of  Humphrey  Stafford,  knight,  as  haron  of  Southwik  in  tail 
Westminster,   male,  by  the  name  of  baron  of  Stafford  of  Southwik,  with  all  rights  per- 
taining to  a  baron  of  the  realm.  By  p.s. 

April  26.        Commission  to  William,  archbishop   of  York,   to  attend  in  the  king's 

Westmioster.  place  at  the  city  of  York  on  «5  May  next,  to  which  date  Parliament  stands 

prorogued  from  20  February  last,  and  to  prorogue  the  said  Parliament  until 

26  November  next  at  the  said  city  of  York.  By  p.s. 

The  like  to  the  king's  kinsman  Richard,  earl  of  Warwick  and  Salisbury. 

April  24.        Grant  for  life  to  John  Fogge,  knight,  treasurer  of  the  king's  household, 

WevtmiDstcr.  apd  Alice  his  wife  of  a  tun  of  Gascon  wine  yearly  at  Christmas  from  the 

king's  prises  in  the  port  of  London  ;  and  to  the  said  John  of  the  ofiico  of 

the  king's  hunt  and  tlie  supervision  of  his  deer  in  all  forests,  chaces  and 

parks  within  the  county  of  Kent.  By  p.s. 

May  2.  Pardon  to  the  abbot  and  convent  of  Circestro  uf  the  100/.  which  they 

Westminster,   are  bound  to  pay  to  the  king  for  their  temporalities  at  the  next  voidance  of 
the  abbey  and  all  that  pertains  to  the  king  by  reason  of  the  said  voidance. 

By  p.s. 

April  30.        Grant  for  life  to  Petronilla  Mountferand,  late  the  wife  of  Bertram  lord 

Westmiiuter.  Mountferand,  of  an  annuity  of  20/.  from  Michaelmas  last  from  the  issues 

of  the  counties  of  Bedford  and  Buckingham  ;    in  lieu  of  a  grant  to  her  of 

the  same  at  the  Exchequer  by  letters  patent  dated  29  August,  1  Edward 

IV.  surrendered.  By  p.s. 

April  15.         Licence  for  Laurence,  bishop  of  Durham,  to  attend  to  his  own  business 

Westminster,  and  reside  where  he  pleases  within  the  realm  for  three  years,  without  being 

compelled  to  attend  at  Parliament  and  council.  By  p.s. 

May  12.  Presentation  of  John  IJutte,  perpetual  vicar  of  the  parish  church  of  St. 
Westminster.  John  in  the  Isle  of  Tlianct^  in  the  diocese  of  Canterbury,  to  the  perpetual 
vicarage  of  the  parish  church  of  Mynster  in  the  Isle  of  Thanet,  in  the 
same  diocese,  in  the  king's  gift  by  n)ason  of  the  temporalities  of  the 
monastery  of  St.  Augustine  v/illiout  the  walls  of  Canterbury  being  in  his 
hands  through  vuidancc,  on  an  exchange  of  benefices  with  David  Steward. 

By  p.s. 

May  7.  Grant  for  life  to  the  kii:g*s  servitor  John  Peke  of  the  office  of  one  of 

Westminster,  the  rangers  within  the  king's  forest  of  Dene,  co.  Gloucester,  receiving  such 

fees  as  were  allowed  in  the  time  of  Edward  III.  from  the  issues  of  the 

county  of  Gloucester,  with  all  other  profits.  By  p.s. 

May  12.  .Revceation  of  the  protection  with  clause  volumus^  for  one  year,  granted  1 1 
Westminster.  April  by  let»ers  patent  to  Nicholas  Crofte,  citizen  and  *  draper*  of  London, 
alias  draper,  alias  'marchaunt,'  staying  on  the  king's  service  in  the 
company  of  John  ^ode,  victualler  of  the  town  and  cnstle  of  Calais  and  the 
marches,  on  the  safe  custody,  defence  and  victualling  of  the  same  in  the 
parts  of  Picardy,  because  he  delays  in  the  city  and  suburbs  of  London 
as  appears  by  certificate  of  the  sheriffs. 

July  7.  Grant  for  life  to  Edmund  Tankard,  yeoman  of  the  king's  privy  kitchen 

Pontefract.  for  his  good  service  to  the  king's  father  and  the  king,  of  the  custody  of  the 
king's  park  of  Trym,  co.  Meath,  in  Ireland,  with  the  accustomed  fees  from 
the  issues  of  the  king's  manor  of  Trym.  By  K. 

Membranb  16. 

March  20.       Licence,  for  40  marks  paid  by  them  in  the  hanaper,  for  Richard  Turnaunt 
Westminster,  and  Joan  his  wife,  the  daughter  of  John  Stokton,   to  enfeoff  Thomaa 


326  CALENDAR  OP  PATENT  ROLLS. 


1464«  Membrane  16— c^m^. 

Staunton,  citixen  and  meroer  of  London,  Thomas  Mootham,  clerk,  William 
Turner,  clerk,  John  Smjth,  clerk,  John  Burgeys,  clerk,  John  Bracj  the 
elder^  ^  taloughchaundeler,'  and  Roger  Purpet  of  the  manors  of  Penbrokjs, 
Bruges,  Daubenejs  and  Mokkynges  and  a  messuage,  a  dovecote,  108  acres 
of  land,  13  acres  of  meadow  and  lOA  acres  of  wood  in  Totenham  and 
Edelmeton,  co.  Middlesex,  held  in  chief. 

April  26.         General  pardon  to  Richard  Stjhyrst  late  of  London,  *•  skynner,'  of  all 
W^estmintter.   offences  committed  by  him  before  12  April.  By  p.8. 

April  28.         Grant  for  life  to  William  Spenser  of  an  annuity  of  10/.,  parcel  of  a  sum 

Westminster,  of  20/.  due  to  the  king  from  a  moiety  of  the  church  of  Roliireham,  co.  York, 

at  the  hands  of  the  abbot  and  convent  of  Roufford.  By  p.s. 

April  27.         Grant  to  William  Say,  the  dean^  and  the  chapter  of  the  cathedral  of  St. 

Westminsten  Paul,  London,  in  contentment  of  100/.  due  from  the  king  for  moneys 
lent  by  them  on  27  April,  4  Edward  IV.  by  the  hands  of  William 
Porte,  treasurer  of  the  king's  chamber  and  keeper  of  his  jewels,  of  the 
following  jewels,  viz. : — a  tabernacle  of  gold  with  a  crucifix  and  images  of 
St.  Mary  the  Virgin  and  St.  John  the  Evangelist  enamelled  with  white,  and 
with  white  stags  garnished  with  gold  of  the  weight  of  6  pounds  3^  ounces, 
and  six  silver-gilt  cups  with  a  cover  '  chased '  with  the  arms  of  the  earls  of 
March  and  Ulster  at  the  base  of  the  weight  of  12  pounds  8  ounces.     By  K. 

April  25.  Inspeximus  and  confirmation  to  the  prior  and  convent  of  St  John  the 
[  Wefltminster.  Evangelist,  Kermerdyn,  of  letters  patent  dated  1  June,  1  Henry  VI.  inspect- 
ing  and  confirming  letters  patent  dated  16  February,  5  Henry  V.  confirming 
to  them  their  possessions ;  and  grant  to  them,  in  consideration  of  their 
fidelity  to  the  king  and  his  father  and  their  services  to  the  king's  progenitor, 
Edward,  sometime  duke  of  York,  uncle  of  the  king*s  father,  at  the  time  of 
the  first  insurrection  of  Henry  de  Derby  against  Richard  II.  by  keeping 
him  for  the  space  of  21  weeks  from  the  hands  of  the  said  Henry,  in  return 
for  which  he  promised  to  augment  their  possessions  and  liberties  but  the 
promise  was  not  executed,  that  their  tenants  and  residents  in  Old  Kermerdyn 
shall  henceforth  be  free  to  buy  and  sell  in  England  and  Wales  as  are  the 
burgesses  in  New  Kermerdyn  and  that  no  sheriff,  bailiff -errant  or  other 
officer  or  minister  of  the  county  of  Kermerdyn  shall  execute  any  office 
within  the  liberty  of  Old  Kermerdyn  on  any  tenant  of  the  priory  except  the 
steward  there  according  to  the  concession  specified  in  the  charter  of  Tallag- 
harn  and  New  Kermerdyn.       By  p.s.  and  for  5  marks  paid  in  the  hanaper. 

May  1.  Pardon  to  Thomas  Wake  of  Blysworth,  co.  Northampton,  esquire,  alias 

WcBtminster.  son  and  heir  of  Thomas  Wake,  esquire,  late  sheriff  of  the  county  of  North- 
ampton, alias  sheriff  of  the  county  of  Northampton,  of  all  offences, 
trespasses,  deceptions,  escapes  of  felons,  forfeitures,  misprisions,  conceal- 
ments, fines,  amercements,  issues,  debts  and  accounts  due  to  the  king  before 
20  January.  By  p.s. 

May  4.  Whereas  Alan  Frenssh  appeared  before  the  barons  of  the  Exchequer  in 

Westminster,  person  on  25  November  in  Michaelmas  Term,  3  Edward  IV.  and  made  oath 
that  Thomas  Clarell  of  Lillyngston,  co.  Oxford,  *  gentilman,'  from  22  March, 
38  Henry  VI.  until  27  October,  3  Edward  IV.  at  Silieston  within  the 
king's  forest  of  Whitelwode,  co.  Northampton,  cut  down  and  sold  to  John 
Carpenter  of  Farvyngo,  co.  Northampton,  and  John  Eybarn  of  the  same 
and  divers  other  men  of  the  county,  oaks  and  underwood  of  the  king  growing 
there,  viz.  100  acres  within  the  bailiwick  called  ^  Wakefeldes  bailiwik'  and 
40  acres  within  the  bailiwick  called  <  Haselborowe '  in  the  said  forest  and 
converted  the  moneys  arising  therefrom  to  his  own  use,  the  king  now 
pardons  the  said  Thomas  for  the  same  and  for  all  offences  of  vert  and 
venison  committed  by  him  within  the  said  forest  before  1  March,  3 
Edward  IV.  Bv  p.s. 


4  EDWARD  IV.~Part  I. 


327 


1464. 

Sept.  14. 
Wjcombe. 


June  3. 
York. 


Sept.  24. 
Reading. 

Sept..  24. 
Reading. 


Aug.  30. 
Woodstock. 


Sept.  27. 
Reading. 

Sept.  26. 
Reading. 

Sept.  28. 
Reading. 

Sept.  26. 
Reading. 


Sept.  27. 
Reading. 

Sept.  27. 

Jieadmg. 


Aug.  28. 

Woodstock. 


Memrbans  15. 

Grant  to  the  king's  servitor  John  Waynflete,  esquire  of  the  household, 
and  his  heirs  and  assigns  of  all  lands,  rents  and  tenements  late  of  John 
Aungelly  rebel,  in  the  town  and  fields  of  Clay,  co.  Norfolk,  of  the  yearly 
value  of  26«.  8cf.  in  the  king's  hands  by  the  forfeiture  of  the  said  John 
Aungell.  By  K. 

Pardon  to  Thomas  Lynde,  esquire,  late  escheator  of  Henry  VI4  in  the 
counties  of  Oxford  and  Berks,  of  all  treasons,  rebellions,  felonies  and  other 
offences  committed  by  him  and  all  fines,  amercements,  reliefs,  debts  and 
accounts  due  to  the  king.  By  K. 

General  pardon  to  William  Charles  of  Stowe  St.  Edward,  co.  Gloucester, 
*  yoman,'  cUias  William  Charnes  late  of  Parshore,  co.  Worcester,  *  bocher,' 
alias  William  Chamus  late  of  Cowley,  co.  Stafford,  '  yoman.*  By  p.s. 

Grant  to  Walter  Hungerford,  esquire,  by  mainprise  of  Thomas  Lymerik 
of  Cirencestre,  co.  Gloucester,  *  gentilman,'  and  William  Herbert  of  Bristol, 
esquire,  of  the  king's  lordship  or  manor  of  Cosseham,  co.  Wilts,  to  hold  for 
five  years  from  Michaelmas  next,  with  parks,  rents,  customs,  services,  fairs, 
viewis  of  frank-pledge,  courts,  agistments,  mills,  fisheries  and  other  appur- 
tenances with  supervision  of  the  parks  and  the  king's  deer  therein,  rendering 
100  marks  yearly  and  supporting  the  enclosures  and  buildings.  If  any 
grants  be  made  out  of  the  manor  he  shall  receive  a  due  allowance.       By  K. 

Grant,  during  pleasure,  from  Michaelmas  last,  by  the  service  due  to 
to  the  king's  brother  George,  duke  of  Clarence,  of  the  county,  castle 
and  lordship  of  Chester  with  all  lordships,  manors,  towns,  hamlets,  lands, 
rents,  services,  knights'  fees,  advowsons,  courts  leet,  views  of  frank-pledge, 
return  of  writs,  escheats,  chattels  of  felons  and  fugitives,  fairs,  markets  • 
wreck  of  sea  and  all  other  rights  and  appurtenances.  By  K. 

Licence  for  the  dean  and  chapter  of  the  cathedral  of  St.  Peter,  York, 
to  elect  an  archbishop  in  the  place  of  William,  deceased.     [Fcedera,^ 

ByK. 

General  pardon  to  Margaret  Hungerford,  lady  of  Hungerford  and 
Boutreaulx.  )^j  K. 

Signification  to  W.  bishop  oE  Ely,  of  the  royal  assent  to  the  election  of 
John  Whaddon,  canon  of  the  house  of  St.  Giles,  Bemewell,  as  prior  of  that 
place. 

Grant  to  Thomas  Metcalf  and  Miles  Metcalf,  brothers  of  Edmund 
Metcalf,  for  their  good  service  to  the  king,  the  king's  father  Richard,  late 
duke  of  York,  and  the  king's  uncle  Richard,  late  earl  of  Salisbury,  of  the 
custody  of  the  body  of  Katharine  Metcalf,  late  the  wife  of  the  said  Edmund, 
and  of  all  her  lands  and  tenements  in  the  county  of  York  and  in  Kingeston 
on  Hull,  to  hold  during  her  idiotcy  without  rendering  anything  to  the  king, 
but  finding  a  competent  sustenance  for  her  and  supporting  all  charges,  in 
the  same  manner  as  the  same  was  granted  to  Thomas  Witham,  chancellor 
of  the  Exchequer,  by  letters  patent,  surrendered.  By  p.s. 

General  pardon  to  Joan  Home  alias  Bolton,  late  of  KyngeshiU,  oo« 
Warwick,  *  hnswif .'  By  p.s. 

Grant  to  John,  the  prior,  and  the  convent  of  the  cathedral  church  of 
Holy  Trinity,  Norwich,  of  all  the  issues  and  profits  of  the  archdeaconry  of 
Norwich,  forfeited  to  the  king  because  John  Moreton,  derk,  archdeacon  of 
Norwich,  was  attainted  of  high  treason  by  authority  of  Parliament  at 
Westminster,  to  hold  from  the  day  of  his  attaint  so  long  as  the  king  has 
any  right  to  them,  for  the  repair  and  rebuilding  of  their  church,  a  great  part 
of  whfch  has  been  burnt  by  lightning.  By  K. 

Grant  for  life  to  the  king's  servant,  William  Evyngton,  of  the  office  of 
keeper  of  the  new  park  by  the  king's  castle  of  Wyndesore,  which  he  has 


328 


CALENDAR  OF  PATENT  BOLLS. 


1464. 


Sept.  2. 
Penley. 


Sept.  28. 
Beading. 

Sept.  30. 
Headizig. 


Membrane  15 — cont. 

lately  made  at  the  king's  command,  receiving  4J.  wages  daily  from 
24  March,  2  Edward  lY.  on  which  day  the  king  granted  the  office  to  him 
by  word  of  mouth,  and  since  when  he  has  attended  to  the  office,  from  the 
issues  of  the  king's  castle  and  lordship  of  Wyndesore  at  the  hands  of  the 
constable  of  the  castle  or  his  lieutenant.  By  K. 

Vacated  by  surrender  and  caneeliedj  because  on  20  Jufy,  1 1  Edward  IV. 
the  king  granted  the  said  office  to  Nicholas  Keye  for  Kfe  by  other  letters 
patent. 

Grant  to  the  brethren  and  sisters  of  the  guilds  of  St.  Mary,  St.  John, 
St.  George  and  St.  James  in  the  church  of  St.  John,  within  the  king's 
town  of  Petirburgh,  of  licence  to  acquire  in  mortmain  lands  and  possessions 
to  the  value  of  20/.  yearly  fur  the  sustenance  of  the  guilds  and  the  relief  of 
the  priests  of  those  guilds.     By  p.s.  and  for  100  marks  paid  in  the  hanaper. 

Pardon  to  Geoffrey  Fraunceys  alias  Horc,  who  has  the  custody  of  the 
king's  gaol  of  Guldeford,  co.  Surrey,  of  all  escapes  of  felons  and  other 
prisoners  committed  to  his  custody.  By  p.s« 

Grant  for  life  from  Easter  last  to  the  king's  servants,  Richard  Harleston, 
yeoman  of  the  king's  chamber,  and  Thomas  Bradbrigge,  yeoman  of  the 
avery  of  the  household,  of  the  manor  of  Wauton  alias  Walton,  and  all 
lands,  rents  and  services  in  Wauton  and  Charlewode,  co.  Surrey,  which 
Bichai'd  Darundell  held  for  life  of  the  grant  of  Henry  IV.  now  in  the 
king's  hand?,  without  rendering  anything  to  the  king.  By  K. 


Sept.  11. 
Penley. 


Sept.  15. 
Penley. 

Sept.  16. 
Penley. 


Sept  15. 
Penley. 


Aug.  28. 
Woodstock. 


Sept.  4. 
Penley. 


Membrane  14. 

Grant  to  Reginald  Newton  of  23/.  from  the  issues  of  the  coimty  of 
Northumberland  in  payment  of  arrears  of  wages  due  to  him,  viz.  15/.  for 
his  wages  in  the  office  of  bailiff  and  forester  of  the  king*s  lordships  of 
Onnghani  and  Pruddowe,  co.  Northumberland,  lately  granted  to  him  by 
letters  patent,  and  8/.  for  his  wages  as  one  of  the  king's  soldiers  in  the  town 
and  castle  of  Durham.  By  K. 

Licence  for  the  prior  and  convent  of  the  monastery  of  St.  Mary  without 
and  by  tlie  walls  of  the  city  of  York  to  elect  an  abbot  in  the  place  of  John 
Cotingliam,  deceased.  By  K* 

Presentation  of  Richard  Mollassh,  chaplain,  to  the  vicarage  of  the  parish 
church  of  St.  John,  Thanet,  in  the  diocese  of  Canterbury,  void  by  the 
resignation  of  David  Styward,  in  the  king's  gift  by  reason  of  the 
temporalities  of  the  abbey  of  St.  Augustine  by  Canterbury  being  in  his 
hands. 

Grant  to  the  prior  and  convent  of  the  abbey  of  St.  Mary  without  and 
by  the  walls  of  the  city  of  York,  for  a  certain  sum  of  money  paid  by  them 
to  the  king,  of  the  custody  of  the  abbey  during  its  present  voidance  by  the 
death  of  John  Cotingham,  late  abbot,  with  free  and  full  administration  of 
all  its  possessions  and  issues,  saving  to  the  crown  knight's  fees,  advowsons 
of  churches,  wards,  marriages,  and  reliefs.  By  K. 

Giant  to  the  king's  kinsman  John,  earl  of  Northumberland,  that  whereas 
the  king  has  granted  to  him  200/.  from  the  subsidy  of  the  3«.  in  the  tun 
and  the  \2d,  in  the  pound  in  the  port  of  the  city  of  London  in  part  pay* 
ment  of  the  arrears  of  wages  due  to  him  for  the  custody  of  the  east 
marches  of  Scotland,  he  shall  receive  the  said  sum  from  the  first  moneys 
arising  from  the  said  customs  and  subsidies.  By  K 

Grant  for  life  to  the  king's  brother  George,  duke  of  Clarence,  of  the  manors 
or  lordships  of  Middelton  and  Merden  and  the  hundred  of  Middelton,  co. 
Kent,  the  manor  and  lordship  of  Asshehurst  and  the  park  of  Asshehurst,  co. 
Surrey,  and  31/.  \0s,  yearly  from  the  fee  &rm  of  Wexcombc  and  Bedwvnde, 


y 


4  EDWARD  IV.— PAto  I.  329 


1464.  Membrane  14— con^ 

CO.  Wilts,  with  all  lands,  rents,  farms,  reversions,  knights'  fees,  advowsons, 
courts  leet,  views  of  frank  pledge,  liberties,  franchises,  wards,  marriages, 
reliefs,  escheats,  wreck  of  sea^  chattels  of  felons  and  fugitives,  return  of 
writs  and  executions,  parks,  warrens,  cbaces,  forests,  woods,  fisheries, 
services,  and  other  profits,  without  rendering  anything  to  the  king ;  and, 
also  the  castle,  lordship,  and  town  of  St.  Briavel  and  the  forest  of  Dene, 
with  all  lands,  mills,  rents,  services,  reversions,  parks,  chaces,  warrens, 
woods,  fees,  advowsons,  fairs,  markets,  franchises,  liberties  and  other 
possessions,  rendering  to  the  king  40/.  yearly.  By  K. 

Sept  10.        Grant  for  life  to  Thomas  Colt  of  the  office  *of  clerk  and  keeper  of  the 

Penley.       rolls  of  Chancery  of  Ireland,  with  fees  as  in  the  time  of  Edward  III. ;  and 

also,  for  the  greater  security  of  the  payment  of  the  said  fees,  of  the  king's 

manor  of  Bskyr,  co.  Dublin,  receiving  the  said  fees  from  the  issues  of  the 

same  and  accounting  yearly  for  the  residue  at  the  exchequer  of  Ireland. 

By  p.». 

Aug.  24.  Grant  for  life  to  the  king's  kinsman  Thomas,  earl  of  Esmond,  of  100 
Woodstock,  marks  yearly  in  confirmation  of  a  grant  by  the  king's  father ;  and  also,  for 
the  greater  security  of  the  payment  of  the  same,  of  the  king's  manor  of 
Ardemulgham,  worth  33/.  yearly,  the  lordship  of  Coly,  worth  10/.  yearly, 
and  23i.  13«.  ^d,  yearly  at  the  hands  of  the  ftirmers  of  the  king's  manors 
or  lordships  of  Eskyr  and  Cromelyn,  in  full  payment  of  the  said  100  marks. 

ByK. 

Aug.  28.         General  pardon  to  William  Carter  late  of  Snape,  co.  York, '  yoman.' 
Woodstock.  By  K. 

Sept.  16.         Grant    to    the    king's    kinsman   George,  bishop  of    Exeter,  of   the 
Fenley.       custody  of  the  temporalities  of  the   archbishopric  of    York,  void  by  the 
death  of  William,  late  archbishop,  so  long  as  they  remain  in  the  king's  hands, 
and  all  advowsons,  without  rendering  anything  to  the  king.     [FoederaJ] 

ByK. 

1465. 

Feb.  25.  Inspeximus  and  confirmation  to  John  Melton,  knight,  kinsman  and  heir 
Westminster,  of  the  under-mentioned  Matilda,  and  his  heirs  of  the  enrolment  of  letters 
patent  dated  2  November,  7  Richard  II.  inspecting  and  confirming  to 
Matilda,  sister  and  heir  of  Anthony  son  and  heir  of  Thomas  de  Lucy 
and  wife  of  Henry  de  Percy,  earl  of  Northumberland,  and  her  heirs  letters 
patent  dated  20  March,  18  Edward  III.  granting  to  the  said  Thomas  and  his 
heirs  50/.  yearly  at  the  Exchequer.    By  F.  and  for  20«.  paid  in  the  hanapcr. 

1464.  Membrane  13. 

Aug.  26.  Whereas  the  king  granted  in  fee  simple  to  John  Scott,  knight,  controller 
Woodstock,  of  the  king's  household,  the  reversion  of  the  castle  and  manor  of  Chilham 
and  the  manors  of  Wilderton  and  Molesshe,  co.  Kent,  with  franchises, 
liberties,  knights'  fees,  advowsons,  leets,  courts,  views  of  frank-pled^, 
warrens,  fairs,  markets  and  other  profits,  on  the  death  of  Marjory  late  the  wife 
of  John  Boos,  knight,  lord  of  Boos,  and  all  lands  rents  and  services  in  Chil- 
ham, Godmersham,  Trewlegh,  Charthani,  and  Molesshe,  co.  KenJ;,  late  of 
Thomas  Boos,  knight,  by  letters  patent  dated  26  February,  1  Edward  IV. 
and  also  two  parts  of  the  manors  of  Oldswynford,  Gannowe  and  Snowdesburj, 
CO.  Worcester,  and  the  reversion  of  the  third  part  on  the  death  of  Margaret 
late  the  wife  of  Fulk  Stafford,  esquire,  with  all  fees,  privileges,  rights, 
knights'  fees,  advowsons,  leets,  courts,  views  of  frank-pledge,  warrens,  fairs, 
markets,  and  other  profits,  by  letters  patent  dated  22  January  2  Edward  IV. 
and  whereas  he  has  surrendered  both  these  letters  patent  that  the  king  may 
grant  him  the  same  with  additions ;  the  king  now  grants  as  in  first  letters 
patent  and  grants  him  all  other  lands,  rents  and  services  and  the  third 
part  of  the  advowson  of  the  church  of  Olderomeney,  co.  Kent,  together  with 


330  CALENDAR  OF  PATENT  BOLLS. 


1464.  Membrane  13 — cent, 

16  knights'  fees  in  ChUbain,  Godmersham,  Trewlegh,  Charthamy  Molesshe, 
Luddenham,  Esljiig,  Feversham,  Denton,  Berham,  Kjngeston,  Hugham, 
Elhanif  Newenham,  Cnmdale,  Osprynge,  Bocton  Allulph,  Boctoa  under 
le  Bleen,  Sheldewiche  and  Tenham  and  elsewhere  in  the  coantj  of  Kent 
late  of  the  said  Thomas  Boos,  to  hold  from  the  said  26  February,  and  the 
manors  and  profits  as  in  the  seeond  letters  patent  with  the  advowson 
the  chnrch  of  Oldeswjnford,  in  the  king's  hands  by  reason  of  the  forfeiture 
of  James  Botiller  cdicu  James  Ormond,  late  earl  of  Wiltshire,  to  hold  from 
the  said  22  Januiuy ;  and  licence  for  the  alienation  in  frank  almoin  b}' 
him  of  40  acres  of  land  in  Orlaston,  oo.  Kent,  or  elsewhere,  within  the 
said  county  to  Stephen  Bekele,  rector  of  the  parish  church  of  OrUston, 
for  such  works  of  charity  as  he  shall  ordain.  By  K. 


MSMBRANB  J  2. 

Sept.  1.  Inspeximus  and  confirmation  to  the  men  of  the  town  of  Hedyngdon  of 

Penley.       letters  patent  dated  4  October,  16  Richard  II.  inspecting  and  confirming 
the  following : — 

1.  Letters  patent  dated  20    October,  29  Edward  III.  inspecting  and 

confirming  a  writing  of  Hugh  de  Plescis,  formerly  lord  of  the  manor 
of  Hedyngdon. 

2.  A  writing  of  Richard  Dammory,  knight,  lat«  lord  of  the  manor, 

dated  at  Hedyngdon,  12  January,  31  Edward  III. 

For  2  marks  paid  in  the  hanaper. 

Aug.  24.  Grant  to  John  Yoman,  the  mayor,  and  the  burgesses  of  the  town  or 
Woodstock,  borough  of  Leycestre  that  the  mayor  and  four  of  the  more  discreet  burgesses 
of  the  town  or  borough  with  a  man  skilled  in  law,  to  be  called,  the  recorder 
of  Leicester,  shall  be  justices  of  the  peace  within  the  town  or  borough  and 
its  precincts  and  limits  and  justices  for  the  observation  and  keeping  of  tho 
statutes  and  ordinances  of  workmen  and  labourers.  They  fhsXl  have  full 
power  of  enquiring  into,  hearing  and  determining  all  matters  of  felony, 
trespass  and  other  causes  and  complaints  within  the  same  in  the  same 
manner  as  the  justices  ot  the  peace  and  of  labourers  iu  the  county  of 
Leicester  have  elsewhere  in  the  county,  the  counterfeiting  and  falsification 
of  money  excepted ;  and  with  this  exception  no  justice  of  the  peace  or 
commissioner  of  the  king  shall  have  authority  within  the  same ;  and  the 
mayor  and  burgesses  and  constable  of  the  town  or  any  resident  shall  not  be 
compelled  to  appear  before  any  of  the  king's  justices  except  the  said  mayor 
and  four  burgesses.  The  mayor  and  24  burgesses  shall  yearly  on  the  feast 
of  St.  Matthew  the  Evangelist  elect  out  of  the  24  burgesses  the  said  four 
burgesses  and  also  two  coroners  who  shall  execute  the  office  of  coroner 
within  the  town  or  borough  and  its  precincts  and  limits.  And  the  mayor 
and  burgeeses  shall  not  be  placed  or  impanelled  on  any  assizes,  juries,  in- 
quisitions or  recognisances  or  charged  with  the  trial  of  array  of  any  assize 
or  panel  on  any  matter  without  the  town  or  borough.  By  p.s. 

Sept.  1.  Exemption  for  life  of  Henry  Wilton  of  the  city  of  Norwich,  *  gentilman,' 

Penley.       from  being   placed  or  impanelled  on   any  assizes,  juries,  recognisances, 

attaints  or  inquisitions  and  from  being  made  mayor,  bailiff,  sheriff,  escheator, 

coroner,  constable,  collector,  assessor  or  taxer  of  tenths,  fifteenths,  taxes, 

tallages  or  other  subsidies  against  his  will.  By  K. 


Mbmbrans  11. 

Sept.  27.         General    pardon    to  Thomas  Charles  of  Overswelle,  co.    Gloucester, 

Bcadiug.      <  yoman,'  alias  Thomas  Charles  alias  Chames  late  of  Parshior,  co.  Worcester, 

<  bouchier.'  By  p.s. 


4  EDWARD  IV.— Pabt  I. 


331 


1464. 


Aug.  28. 
Woodstock. 


Oct.  4. 
Beading. 


Oct.  4. 
Reading. 


Sept.  4. 
Penley. 


Oct.  6. 
Wycombe. 


Sept.  26. 
Reading. 


Membrane  11 — eont. 

The  like  to  John  Charles  late  of  Parshore,  co.  Worcester,  ^yoman/ 
alieu  Jak  Charles,  'horskeper/  alieu  John  Charles  of  Everesham,  co. 
Worcester,  ^  yoman,*  alias  John  Charnes  alias  Charnus  late  of  Cowley, 
CO.  Stafford,  *  yoman.'  By  p.s. 

Grant  for  life  to  the  king's  servitor  William  Pole,  yeoman  of  the  king's 
chamber,  of  a  messuage  and  60  acres  of  land  in  Ronale,  co.  Bedford,  which 
Bobert  Coldcote  lately  held  of  the  king  &t  farm  for  7s.  yearly,  and  all 
lands  in  Craunfeld,  Shitlyngton,  Barton  in  the  Clay,  Flatewyke,  Graven- 
hurst  and  Sutton,  co.  Bedford,  which  John  Brown  and  Bartholomew 
Willesdon  lately  held  of  the  king  at  farm  for  7s.  6d.  yearly,  to  hold  from 
Michaelmas  last  without  rendering  anything  to  the  king.  By  K. 

Pardon  to  John  Stokes  of  Biginhill,  co.  Oxford,  esquire,  late  escheator 
in  the  counties  of  Oxford  and  Berks,  of  all  fines,  amercements,  issues, 
reliefs,  debts,  accounts  and  arrears  due  to  the  king  and  all  actions  for  the 
same.  By  K. 

Signification  to  the  keeper  of  the  spirituality  of  the  archbishopric  of 
York,  the  see  being  void,  of  the  royal  assent  to  the  election  of  J'homas 
Bothe,  monk  of  the  Benedictine  monastery  of  St.  Mary  without  the  walls  of 
the  city  of  York,  in  the  diocese  of  York,  as  abbot  of  that  place.  By  p.s. 

Grant,  for  life  to  the  king's  tenant  Robert  Grave,  for  his  good  service 
to  the  king's  father  and  the  king,  of  the  office  of  '  le  wroo '  in  the  king's 
lordship  of  Hatfeld,  co.  York,  with  the  accustomed  fees  from  the  issues 
of  the  lordship,  and  also  of  Id,  daily  from  the  issues  of  the  lordship  at  the 
hands  of  the  receiver.  By  p.s. 

Grant,  from  Easter  last,  to  the  king's  brother  George,  duke  of  Clarence, 
and  the  heirs  of  his  body  of  the  casUe  and  lordship  of  Wodeford  and  the 
lordship  or  manor  of  Wroxsale,  co.  Somerset,  late  of  James,  late  earl  of  Wilt- 
shire, and  in  the  king's  haqds  by  his  forfeiture,  and  the  manor  or  lordship  of 
Lndgarsale  with  all  its  members  and  appurtenances  in  the  county  of  Wilts, 
parcel  of  the  fee  of  Bichemond,  with  knights'  fees,  advowsons,  parks, 
warrens,  forests,  chaces,  woods,  meadows,  stanks,  streams,  fisheries,  mills, 
courts  leet,  views  of  frank-pledge,  liberties  franchises,  lauds,  rents, 
services,  wreck  of  sea  and  other  rights ;  and  licence  for  him  to  enclose 
200  acres  of  Innd,  pasture  and  wood  called  the  woods  of  Colyngburn,  co. 
Wilts,  adjoining  his  park  there  oti  the  north  and  west  and  make  a  park 
and  a  deer-leap  in  it  and  have  fiee  warren  there.  Grant  also  to  him  and 
the  heirs  of  his  body  of  the  lordships,  or  manors,  of  Alesbeare,  Wymple, 
Torrebrian  and  Norton  Dawene,  co.  Devon,  Ebryngton  and  Yeveme 
Courtenay,  co.  Dorset,  and  Fortloo,  Trelowia,  Northill,  Landrian,  Old- 
lawita,  Croftholl,  Porypighan  and  Shevyok  Antony,  co.  Cornwall,  and  the 
lordship,  manor  and  town  of  Crokehorne,  oo.  Somerset,  with  all  members, 
lands,  rents,  services,  advowsons,  knights'  fees,  franchises,  liberties, 
hundreds,  courts  leet,  views  of  frank-pledge,  fairs,  markets,  parks,  warrens, 
chaces,  waters,  mills,  fisheries,  wreck  of  sea,  ^vards,  marriages,  reliefs, 
escheats,  chattels  of  felons,  fugitives  and  outlaws,  return  and  executions 
of  writs,  and  all  other  profits,  on  the  expiration  of  twelve  years  after  the 
death  of  the  king's  uncle  William,  late  earl  of  Kent.  By  K. 

Release  to  Edmund  Reymond  of  London, '  fysshemonger,'  late  searcher 
in  the  port  of  the  city  of  London  and  ports  and  places  adjacent  and  receiver 
and  collector  of  all  profits  from  stones,  pokes  and  weys  of  thrums,  of 
90/.  lOs.  due  from  him  to  the  king  for  the  office  of  the  scrutiny  and  the 
office  of  receiver  of  the  said  profits  in  the  ports  of  London  and  Ipswich. 

BypA 
Appointment,  during  pleasure,  of  Richard  Johnson,  yeoman  in  the  office 
of  the  king*s  butler,  to  purvey  wines  for  the  expenses  of  the  household  and 
carriage  for  the  same  by  land  and  water,  as  John  Wpnlok  of  Wenlok 


332  CALENDAR  OF  PATENT  ROLLS. 


1464.  Membrane  11 — cant. 

knight,  the  king's  chief  butler  of  England,  has  not  leisare  to  attend  to  the 
same.  By  bill  of  the  chief  butler. 

Oct.  9.  Grant  for  life  to  the  king's  servitor  John  Rede,  one  of  the  yeomen  of  the 

Wycombe,     crown,  of  Gd,  daily  for  his  fee  from  4  March,  1   Edward  IV.  from  the 

customs,  subsidies  and  issues  in  the  port  of  Suthampton.  By  p.s. 

Mandate  in  pursuance  to  the  customers  or  collectors  of  the  customs  and 

subsidies  in  the  said  port. 


Membrane  10. 

May  23.         Pardon  to  Ralph  de  Graystok,  knight^  of  all  offences  committed  by  him  and 
York.        all  debts  due  from  him  to  the  king.  By  p.s. 

May  27.  Creation  of  the  king's  kinsman  John  Nevyll  of  Montagu,  knight,  as  earl 

York.        of  Northumberland,  with  remainder  to  the  heirs  of  his  body ;  and  grant  to 

him  and  his  said  heirs  of  20/.  yearly  from  the  issues  of  the  county  of 

Northumberland.  By  K.  by  word  of  mouth. 

Grant  to  John  lord  of  Duddeley,  knight,  in  support  of  his  expenses  in 
the  king's  service,  of  100  marks  from  the  first  moneys  from  the  duchy  of 
Cornwall,  at  the  hands  of  William,  lord  of  Hastynges,  general  receiver  of 
the  duchy,  or  his  deputy.  By  K. 

May  23.  Presentation  of  David  Steward,  perpetual  vicar  of  the  parish  church  of 

York.  Mynster  in  the  Isle  of  Thanet,  to  the  perpetual  vicarage  of  St.  John,  Isle 
of  Thanet,  in  the  diocese  of  Canterbury,  on  an  exchange  of  benefices  with 
John  Hutte. 

June  2.  General  pardon  to  Thomas  Innocent  alias  Thomas  Leche  of  Monksilver, 

York.        CO.  Somerset,  *  yoman.'  By  K. 

June  5.  The   like  to   Philip   Lewys,   rector  of   the  parish   church   of    North 

York.        Thoresby,  co.  Lincoln .  By  K. 

June  5.  Licence  for  the   prior    and   convent    of  the  monastery  of  St.  John, 

York.        Colcestre,  to  elect  an  abbot  in  the  place  of  William,  deceased.  By  K. 

Juno  4.  Pardon  to  George  Lomley,  knight,  late  sheriff  of  the  county  of  Northum- 

York.        berland,  of  all  fines,  amercements,  issues,  reliefs,  scutages,  debts,  accounts 

and  arrears  due  from  Iiim  to  the  king  for  his  shrievalty  apd  all  actions  for 

the  same.  By  K. 

June  3.  General  pardon  to  Richard  Ookerell  late  of  York,  ^  merchaunt,'  alias 

York.        ^gentilman,'  notwithstanding  th-it   he  was  attainted  of  high   treason  in 

Parliament  at  Westminster,  4  November,  1  Edward  IV.  By  K, 

June  4.  General  pardon    to  Richard   Railton  of    Raughton  in  the  parish  of 

York.        Daweston,  co.   Cumberland,   ^yoman,'  alias  Reiltou   of   Raughton,    co. 

Cumberland, '  husbondman.'  By  K. 

The  like  to  Thomas  Hagh  late  of  BothomhauU,  co.  York,  *  yoman,'  for 
all  offences  committed  by  him  from  the  first  day  of  the  reign  to  20  May 
last.  By  K. 

June  5.  Mandate  to  the  escheator  in  the  county  of  Cumberland  for  the  restitution 

York.        of  the  temporalities  of  the  bishopric  of  Carlisle  to  Master  Richard  Scrope, 

whom  the  pope  has  appointed  bishop  in  the  place  of  John,  late  bishop, 

deceased,  and  whose  fealty  the  king  has  taken.     [FcBdera."]  By  K. 

The  like  to  tlie  escheators  in  the  following  counties : — 

Lincoln. 

Middlesex. 

Westmoreland. 

Derby, 
Writ  de  intendendo  in  pursuance  to  the  tenants.  By  K. 


4  EDWARD  IV.— Pabt  I.  333 


14C4,  Membrane  10 — cant. 

Pardon  to  Bichard  Scrope»  king's  clerk^  elect  of  CarliBle,  of  all  offences 
committed  by  him  against  the  statutes  and  ordinances  of  Provisors  and 
Premunire.  Bj  K. 

June  5.  Exemption  for  life  of  Bichard  Houghton  of  Legh,  co.  Lancaster,  knight, 

York.  from  being  placed  or  impanelled  on  juries,  assizes  or  recognisances  and 
from  .being  made  trier  of  the  same,  justice,  sheriff,  coroner,  mayor,  bailiff, 
constable,  collector,  controller,  assessor  or  taxer  of  tenths,  fifteenths  or 
other  imposition,  trier,  leader  or  snrvejor  of  men  at  arms,  or  other  officer 
or  minister  of  the  king  against  his  will.  By  K 

June  3.  The  like  of  John  Aubry,  the  elder,  of  the  city  of  Norwich,  draper. 

York.  By  K. 

June  4.  Grant  for  life  to  John  Conyers,  knight,  of  the  rule,  governance  and 

Toik.        custody  of  Elizabeth  Tunstall  wife  of  Bichard  Tunstall,  knight,  rebel,  with 

all  her  lands,  rents  and  possesssions  in  the  county  of  Lincoln  and  elsewhere 

within  the  realm,  from  23  September^  1  Edward  IV.  without  rendering  any 

account  By  K. 

June  10.         Mandate  to  all  bailiffs  and  others  to  permit  William  Inglis,  a  native  of 

York.        the  town  of  Kelsowe  in  Scotland,  dwelling  at  the  city  of  York,  who  has 

taken  an  oath  of  fealty,  to  inhabit  the  realm  peaceably  and  enjoy  his  goods. 

By  p.s. 

M&y  21.  Grant  to  John  Dynham,  esquire,  and  the  heirs  male  of  his  body  of  the 

York.  manors  of  Pole  aticu  Southpole,  Harleston,  Plymptre,  Sutton  Lucy  and 
Golywyk  alias  Colewill,  co.  Devon,  the  manors  of  Maperton  with  the 
members  of  Halton  and  Glopton,  Southcadbury  and  Wotton,  co.  Somerset, 
a  moiety  of  the  manor  of  Stoke  Mulys,  co.  Oxford,  and  all  lands  and 
possessions  in  Pole,  Harleston,  Plymptre,  Sutton  Lucy,  Colewyk,  Maperton, 
Halton,  Clopton,  Southcadbury,  Wotton  and  Stoke  Mulys  which  came 
into  the  king's  hands  by  the  forfeiture  of  Bobert-  late  lord  Hnngerford, 
knight,  by  reason  of  an  act  of  forfeiture  in  Parliament  at  Westminster, 
4  November,  1  Edward  lY.  with  knights'  fees,  advowsons,  courts  leet, 
views  of  frank-pledge,  parks,  warrens,  chaces,  fairs,  markets  and  all  other 
profics,  with  successive  remainder  to  Charles  Dyuham,  esquire,  and  Boger 
Dynham,  esquire,  his  brothers,  and  the  heirs  male  of  their  bodies.      By  p.s. 

Juno  1 1 .         Licence  for  the  prior  and  convent  of  the  monastery  of  Cirencestre  to 
York.        elect  an  abbot  in  the  place  of  William,  late  abbot,  deceased.  By  K. 


Mbmbranb  9. 

June  21.         Inspeximus  and  confirmation  to  the  prior  and  Friars  Preachers  of  York 
York.        of   letters    patent   dated  24    November,   5   Bichard    II.  inspecting  and 
confirming  with  additions  the  following  :— 

1.  A  charter  dated  at  Westminster,  8  March,  12  Henry  III.     [Charter 
Roily  12  Henry  III,  m.  8.] 

2.  Letters  patent  dated  23  September,  52  Henry  III. 

3.  Letters  patent  dated  18  February,  26  Edward  I. 

4.  Letters  patent  dated  1  May,  28  Edward  I. 

5.  Letters  patent  dated  15  November,  8  Edward  [II]. 

For  ^  mark  paid  in  the  hanaper. 

June  20.  Grant  for  life  to  the  king's  servitor  John  Melsham,  one  of  the  yeomen  of 
York.  the  Crown,  of  6/f.  daily  for  his  fee  from  Christmas  last,  on  which  day  he 
became  one  of  the  yeomen  of  the  Crown,  from  the  50  marks  yearly  which 
the  abbot,  prior  and  convent  of  St.  Albans  are  bound  to  the  king  for  the 
▼oidance  of  the  abbey  and  its  temporalities,  at  the  hands  of  the  said  abbot, 
prior  and  convent.  By  K. 


334 


CALENDAR  OP  PATENT  BOLLS. 


1464. 

Jane  25. 
Bererley. 


June  10. 
York. 


June  30 
York. 

July  1- 
Foute6»ct. 


June  2. 
York. 


July  2. 
Pontefract. 


July  17. 

WefttiDinster. 


July  19. 
WettminBter, 


Memhrane  9—c<mi. 

Signification  to  Th.  bishop  of  London  of  the  royal  aaaent  to  the  election 
of  John  Canown^  monk  of  the  monastery  of  St.  John,  €k>lce8trey  as  abbot 
of  that  place.  By  K. 

Grant  to  the  mayor  and  citizens  of  York,  in  consideration  of  the  losses 
they  have  sustained  .by  reason  of  the  wars  and  dissensions  in  the  north,  of 
4i>/.  yearly  for  12  years  from  the  subsidy  of  the  fU,  in  the  tnn  and  the  I2d. 
in  the  pound  in  the  port  of  Kyngeston  on  Hull.  By  K. 

Mandate  in  pursuance  to  the  customers  or  collectors  of  the  said  subsidy. 

Licence  for  the  prior  and  c6nvent  of  Lilleshull  to  elect  an  abbot  in  the 
place  of  John,  late  abbot,  deceased. 

Grant  for  life  to  William  Bylond,  for  his  good  service  to  the  king's 
father  and  the  king,  of  a  tenement  or  plot  called  *  Boos  Halle '  in  the 
parish  of  Waterfulford,  co.  York,  with  all  lands,  meadows,  woods  and  other 
commodities  pertaining  to  it,  late  of  Thomas,  late  lord  Boos,  rebel,  in  the 
king's  hands  by  reason  of  an  act  of  attaint  in  Parliament  at  Westminster, 
4  November,  1  Edward  IV.  against  the  said  Thoma>,  not  exceeding  the 
yearly  value  of  100«.,  without  rendering  anything  to  the  king  or  anyone. 

ByK. 

Ghunt  for  life  to  Thomas  Wynterfell  of  the  office  of  serjeant  of  the 
king's  dogs  called  '  herthoundes/  with  the  accnstomed  fees,  in  the  same 
manner  as  Bobert  his  father  or  anyone  else  in  the  office.  By  K, 

Grant  for  life  to  the  king's  servitor  Thomas  Seintleger  of  the  office  of 
keeper  of  Ghestenwode,  co.  Kent,  from  4  March,  1  Edward  IV.  receiving 
2d.  daily  from  the  issues  of  the  manor  and  hundred  of  Middelton,  co.  Kent, 
with  all  other  profits.  By  K. 

Mandate  to  Matthew  Philyppe,  mayor  of  the  city  of  London  and 
escheator  in  the  same  city,  for  the  restitution  of  the  temporalities  of  the 
abbey  of  Cirencestre,  of  the  Augustinian  order,  to  John  Sobbury,  canon 
of  the  same,  whose  election  as  abbot  J.  bishop  of  Worcester  has  confirmed, 
and  whose  fealty  the  king  has  ordered  to  be  taken  by  the  said  bishop. 

ByK. 
The  like  to  the  escheators  in  the  following  counties : — 
Somerset  and  Dorset. 
Wilts. 
Gloucester. 
Oxford  and  Berks. 
Northampton. 
Buckingham. 
Writ  de  intendendo  in  pursuance  to  ihe  tenants.  By  K. 

Mandate  to  Matthew  Philippe,  mayor  of  the  city  of  London  and  escheator 
in  the  same  city,  for  the  restitution  of  the  temporalities  of  the  abbey 
of  St.  Mary,  Lilleshull,  of  the  Augustinian  order,  to  Robert  Ij'itzJohn, 
canon  of  the  same,  whose  election  as  abbot  J.  bishop  of  Coventry  and 
Lichfield  has  confirmed,  and  whose  fealty  the  king  has  ordered  to  be  taken 
by  the  said  bbhop. 

The  like  to  the  escheators  in  the  following  counties  :— 

Salop. 

Stafford. 

Derby. 

Warwick  and  Leicester. 

Northampton. 

York. 
Writ  de  intendendo  in  pursuance  to  the  tenants. 


4  EDWARD  IV.— Pabt  I. 


335 


1464. 

July  8. 
Pontefract. 


July  7. 
Pontefract. 

July  6. 
Pontefnct. 


July  10. 
Blithe. 


July  23. 
Weatminster. 


July  10. 
Pontefract. 


July  24. 
Westminster. 


Julys. 
Pontefract 


July  4. 

■ 

Pontefraet. 

June  12. 
York. 


July  2& 
P^ey. 

July  10. 
Blytbe. 


Membrane  8. 

Gbant  in  frank  almoin  to  the  master  and  brethren  of  the  hospital  of 
St.  Leonard,  York,  of  the  foundation  of  the  king's  progenitors,  of  all  the 
waier-mllls  by  and  below  the  king's  castle  of  York  called  '  Gastelmylnas/ 
in  recompence  And  satisfaction  for  the  housebote  and  haybote  within  the 
king*8  forest  of  Galtres,  co.  York,  granted  to  them  by  Henry  III.  and 
confirmed  by  letters  of  others  of  the  king's  progenitors.  By  K. 

General  pardon  to  John  Hoperton  of  Northalderton,  co.  York,  '  yoman.' 

ByK. 

(Irant  for  life  to  William  Hyndeley,  '  yoman/  and  Alexander  Boter- 
warth,  of  the  office  of  controller  of  the  king's  custom  and  coket  of  wools, 
hides,  wool-fells,  lead  and  other  mershandbe  in  the  ports  of  the  city  of 
Dublia  and  the  town  of  Drogheda,  receiving  the  accustomed  fees  at  the 
hands  of  the  collectors  of  the  said  custom  aud  coket,  with  the  custody  of 
one  part  of  tlie  coket  seal.  By  K. 

Grant  for  life  to  George  Willerby,  goldsmith,  that  he  be  the  king's 
goldsmith,  in  the  same  manner  as  Matthew  Philippe  lately  held  the  office 
of  the  grant  of  Henry  YI.  receiving  the  accustomed  fees  from  the  issues 
of  the  coinage  of  the  king's  household  at  the  hands  of  the  master  of  the 
coinage.  By  K. 

Grant  for  life  to  the  king's  servant  John  Fortescu,  esquire,  of  the  manor 
of  Banstede,  co.  Surrey,  which  came  into  the  hands  of  Richard  II.  by  way 
of  forfeiture,  to  the  yearly  value  of  20/.  By  p.s. 

Grant  to  Isabel  Lambeson,  late  the  wife  of  John  Lambeson,  of  all  his 
goods  and  chattels  forfeited  to  the  king  by  reason  of  his  attainder  for  high 
treason.  By  K. 

Grant  for  life  to  Bichard  Ogle,  knight,  of  the  offices  of  the  constableship 
and  of  receiver  of  the  king's  castle  and  lordship  of  Bamborough,  co. 
Northumberland,  with  all  due  fees,  in  the  same  manner  as  William  Elmeden. 

ByK. 

Grant  for  life  to  Katharine  FitzWilliam,  for  her  good  service  to  the 
king's  mother  the  duchess  of  York,  of  a  deer  called  *  a  stagge  of  an  herte,' 
yearly  from  the  king's  chace  of  Hatield  and  a  tun  of  red  wine  yearly  from 
the  king's  prises  in  the  port  of  Kingestou  on  Hull.  By  K. 

Mandate  in  pursuance  to  the  king's  chief  butler  of  England. 

Grant  for  life  to  tne  king's  servitor  Bichard  Guynnyth,  one  of  the  king's 
yeomen  porters,  of  the  office  of  bailiff  of  Bottelowe,  co.  Gloucester,  with 
the  accustomed  fees.  By  K. 

The  like  to  the  king's  servant  Thomas  Froute,  esquire,  of  the  office  of 
parker  or  the  custody  of  the  king's  park  of  Swalowefeld,  co.  Berks,  with 
the  herbage  and  pannage  of  the  park  and  with  a  meadow  adjacent,  from 
4  March,  1  Edward  lY.  from  which  time  he  has  occupied  the  office  by 
the  king's  command,  receiving  the  accustomed  fees  from  the  issues  of  the 
king's  lordship  of  Swalowefeld,  with  all  other  profits.  By  K. 

The  like  to  the  said  Thomas  of  the  office  of  palicer  (palieiarii)  of  the 
said  park  of  Swalowefeld  from  the  said  4  March,  1  Edward  IV.  from  which 
time  he  has  occupied  the  office  by  the  king's  command,  receiving  the 
accustomed  fees  from  the  issues  of  the  said  lordship  of  Swalowefeld, 
with  all  other  profits.  By  K. 

General  pardon  to  John  Bnndng  late  of  Fomsete,  co.  Norfolk,  'hus- 
bondman,'  alias  late  of  Fomssett,  *  yoman.'  By  K. 

Appointment  iot  life  of  the  king's  servant  Peter  Bowman,  for  his  good 
service  to  the  king  and  the  king's  father  in  England  and  beyond  seas,  as 
derk  of  the  king's  ships,  barges  and  other  vessels,  receiving  the  accustomed 
lees;  and  commission  to  him   lo  take  mariners,  carpenteis,  smiths,  and 


336 


CALENDAR  OF  PATENT  ROLLS. 


1464,  Membrane  8 — cont, 

other  workmen  for  the  service  and  works  of  the  same,  and  timber,  iron, 
tools  and  other  necessaries.  Bj  p.s. 

June  1.  Pardon  to  Robert  Corbet  of  the  forfeiture  of  120/.  in  which  he  was 

WestmiMter.  bound  to  the  king.  On  27  April,  2  Edward  I V.  he  came  before  William 
Stanlej,  knight,  the  king's  chamberlain  of  Chester,  in  the  Exchequer  there 
and  acknowledged  himself  bound  to  the  king  in  the  said  sum,  payable  at 
Whitsunday  then  following,  viz.,  40/.  for  Richard  Broun,  40/.  for  Robert 
Broun  and  40/.  for  Henrj  Broun,  as  surety  for  their  good  behaviour 
towards  John  de  Pull  of  Webunbury  and  Henry  Grene  of  Walgherton  and 
others  the  king's  lieges  until  the  next  county  court  to  be  held  at  Chester 
after  Easter  then  following  and  for  their  appearance  before  the  king's 
council  at  the  said  court ;  nnd  the  court  was  held  on  Tuesday  afler  the  close 
of  Easter,  3  Edward  IV.  within  the  king's  castle  of  Chester,  but  they  did 
not  appear  and  accordingly  the  said  120/.  was  forfeited.  By  K. 

Grant  for  life  to  William  Swerenden,  one  of  the  clerks  of  Chancery,  and 
John  Bagot  of  the  office  of  one  of  the  clerks  of  the  crown  of  Chancery, 
now  held  by  William  Rous,  on  his  vacation  of  the  same  by  death  or 
surrender,  with  such  fees  as  Geoffrey  Martyn,  occupant  of  the  office  in  the 
time  of  Edward  IIL  or  James  Billyngford,  occupant  of  the  office  by  the 
name  of  chief  clerk  of  the  crown  in  the  time  of  Richard  11.  bad  from 
the  issues  of  the  hanaper,  and  a  livery  yearly  at  the  great  wardrobe ;  the 
said  William  Swerenden  having  surrendered  letters  patent  dated  19  October, 
1  Edward  IV.  granting  the  said  leversion  to  him.  By  K. 


June  22. 
York. 


Aug.  8. 
Stamford. 


Sept.*  3. 
Penley. 


Aug.  10. 
Stamford. 


Aug.  7. 
Stainford. 


July  7. 
Thome. 


Aug.  9. 

Stamford. 

Aug.  8. 
Stamford. 


Membrane  7. 

Presentation  of  Thomas  Melburn ,  parson  of  the  parish  church  of  Danby 
on  Wysk,  in  the  diocese  of  York,  to  the  parish  church  of  Newton  Kyme,  in 
the  same  diocese,  on  an  exchange  of  benefices  with  John  Godeyer. 

Grant  to  the  kiug's  servitor  Thomas  Witham,  chancellor  of  the 
Exchequer,  of  tbe  custody  of  the  body  of  Katharine  Metcalf,  late  the  wife 
of  Edmund  Metcalf,  v^ho  has  been  an  idiot  from  her  birth,  and  of  all  her 
lands  and  tenements  in  the  county  of  York  and  in  Kingeston  on  Hull,  to 
hold  during  her  idiotcy  without  rendering  anything  to  the  king  but  finding 
a  competent  sustenance  for  her  and  supporting  all  charges.  By  K. 

Gbant  for  life  to  Walter  Devereux  of  Ferrers,  knight,  and  Richard 
Monynton  of  the  office  of  keeper  of  He  hejwode*  in  the  county  of 
Hereford,  with  the  accustomed  fees,  in  lieu  of  a  like  grant  of  the  same  to 
the  said  Richard  for  life  by  letters  patent,  surrendered.  By  p.8. 

Release  to  Robert  Rodes  of  the  county  of  Northumberland,  ^  gentilman,' 
of  all  actions  in  respect  of  a  recognisance  which  he  made  on  2  July, 
1  Edward  IV.,  before  the  king  in  Chancery  that  he  owed  500/.  to  the  king 
to  be  paid  at  Michaelmas  then  following  under  certain  conditions.      By  p.s. 

Grant  for  life  to  the  king's  sei-vitor  Thomas  Oliver,  one  of  the  yeomen 
of  the  crown,  of  6df.  daily  for  his  fee  from  the  Epiphany  last,  from  which  time 
he  has  been  one  of  the  yeomen  of  the  crown,  from  the  fee  farm  of  the  town 
of  Colchester.  By  K. 

Mandale  in  pursuance  to  the  bailiffs  of  the  town. 

Appointment,  during  pleasure,  of  Thomas  Billyng  as  one  of  the  justices 
of  the  King's  Bench,  receiving  the  accustomed  fee.  By  K. 

Grant  for  life  to  Anne  late  the  wife  of  William  Grymesby,  rebel,  and 
her  assigns  of  all  lands,  rents,  reversions  and  services  lately  belonging  to 
her  and  her  husband  as  in  her  right  and  inheritance  in  Castlebitham, 
Litilbitham,  Counthorp  and  Careby,  co.  Lincoln,  which  came  into  the  king's 


4' EDWARD  IV.— Pabt  L 


337 


14f64. 


Aug.  12. 
Stamford. 


Aug.  11. 
Stamford. 


Aug.  14. 
Westminster. 


Aug  13. 

Stamford. 


Aug.  10. 
Stamford. 


Aug.  10. 
Stamford. 

Aug.  12. 
Stamford. 


Aug.  10. 
Stamford. 


•  Membrane  7 — cont. 

hands  bj  the  forfeiture  and  rebellion  of  her  husband  and  by  authority  of 
an  act  in  Parliament  at  Wesiminstery  1  Edward  IV.  By  p.s. 

The  like  to  Mary  the  daughter  of  Robert  Huet  of  the  town  of  Newcastle 
on  Tyne  of  a  yearly  rent  of  5  marks  from  a  yearly  rent  due  to  the  king 
from  certain  lands  and  tenements  held  of  him  within  the  town  at  the  hands 
of  the  sheriff.  By  p.s. 

Licence  for  Richard  Midelton,  king's  esquire,  and  Matilda  his  wife  to 
sell  yearly  during  her  life  their  woods  within  the  king's  forest  of  Whitel- 
wode  according  to  the  custom  of  the  forest  without  impediment.        By  p.s. 

Exemplification,  at  the  request  of  John  Pilkington,  one  of  the  esquires 
of  the  body,  of  the  enrolment  of  letters  patent  dated  13  April,  4  Edward 
lY.  being  a  grant  to  him  for  life  of  the  office  of  constable  of  the  king's 
castle  of  Wikelowe  in  Ireland  with  the  accustomed  fees  and  with  the  wages 
for  the  soldiers  in  the  castle  from  the  issues  of  the  lordship  or  manor  of 
Newcastle  by  Lyouns  in  Ireland  and  the  fee  farm  of  Chapelizod,  Lexlepe 
and  Salmon  Leap.  The  above  letters  have  been  casually  lost,  as  Alexander 
Boterworth  has  taken  oath  in  Chancery,  and  will  be  surrendered  and 
cancelled  if  found. 

Grcneral  pardon  to  Thomas  Richnrdson  late  of  Barleburgh,  co.  Derby, 
^oman,'  of  all  offences  committed  by  him,  although  he  is  an  approver  of 
Henry  VI.  By  p.s. 

Grant  for  life,  from  Michaelmas  last,  to  John  Davy,  by  mainprise  of  John 
Dnffeld  of  London, '  gentilman,'  and  John  Saladyn  of  London,  '  yoman,'  of 
the  custody  of  all  lands  and  tenements  late  of  John  de  Manncbrigge  in 
Mannebrigge,  co.  Southampton,  with  the  hundred  of  Mannebrigge  and 
waifs,  strays,  courts  leet,  fines,  amercements,  issues  and  all  other  profits, 
rendering  to  the  king  40;.  Sd.  yearly  and  supporting  all  charges.       By  p.s. 

General  pardon  to  Robert  Parker,  clerk.  By  p.s. 

Grant  to  the  tenants  of  the  king's  town  of  Kingesthorp  otherwise  called 
Thorp,  CO.  Northampton,  that  they  may  hold  the  town  with  all  its  members 
and  appurtenances  for  six  years  from  Miohaelnuis  last,  rendering  to  the 
king  40/.  yearly  for  all  charges  and  farms.  They  formerly  held  the  town 
of  Heniy  VI.  and  rendered  to  him  60/.  yearly,  but,  as  it  appeared  by  inqui- 
sition that  the  town  was  not  extended  at  bo  much,  he  granted  to  them  that 
they  should  hold  it  for  40  years  from  the  death  of  Joan,  late  queen  of 
England,  rendering  only  50/.  yearly.  And  now  the  town  has  come  to  such 
poverty  that  the  present  grant  has  been  made.  By  K. 

Grant  for  life  to  Master  William  Hatteclyf,  doctor  of  medicine  sworn  to 
preserve  the  king's  body,  from  Michaelmas  last,  of  20/.  yearly  from  the  issues 
of  the  manors  and  lordships  of  Cokham  and  Bray,  co.  Berks,  with  all  their 
appurtenances  and  all  other  profits  within  the  forest  of  Wyndesore  and  the 
said  manors,  and  20/.  yearly  from  the  50  marks  which  the  abbot,  prior  and 
convent  of  St.  Albans  and  their  successors  render  to  the  king  yearly  for  the 
voidance  of  the  abbey  and  its  temporalities,  at  their  hands,  in  lieu  of  a  like 
grant  to  him  of  40/.  yearly  from  the  issues  of  the  king's  lordship  of 
Kirketon  in  Lyndesey,  co.  Lincoln,  by  letters  patent,  surrendered.      By  p.s. 


Mbmbranb  6. 

Aug.  17.  Inspeaimu*  and  confirmation  to  the  men  of  the  town  of  Cestrefeld  of  a 
Westminster,  charter  dated  at  Tewkesbury,  28  December,  17  Henry  III.  \^Charter  Roily 
17  Henri/  III,  m.  12,]  confirming  to  the  men  of  William  Briwerr  in  the 
town  of  Cestrefeld  the  liberty  granted  by  him  that  they  should  be  free 
burgesses,  and  should  have  the  same  liberties  which  king  John  had  granted 
to  Mm.  For  16«.  8c/.  paid  in  the  hanaper. 

u    86914.  Y 


338 


CALENDAR  OP  PATENT  ROLLS. 


14M. 

Aug.  11. 
Stamford. 


Aug.  11. 
Stamford. 

Aug.  12. 
Stamford. 


Aug.  22. 
Penley. 


Membrane  6 — cotit. 

Mandate  to  the  escheator  in  the  counties  of  Essex  and  Hertford  for  the 
restitution  of  the  temporalities  of  the  abbey  of  St.  John,  Colchester,  to 
John  Canon,  monk  of  the  monastery,  whose  election  as  abbot  Th.  bishop  of 
London  has  confirmed  and  whose  fealtj  the  king  has  ordered  to  be  taken  by 
the  said  bishop.  By  K. 

The  like  to  the  following : — 

The  escheator  in  the  county  of  Suffolk. 

Matthew  Philippe,  mayor  of  London  and  escheator  in  the  same  city. 

Writ  de  intendendo  in  pursuance  to  the  tenants. 

Release  to  the  prior  and  convent  of  the  house  or  church  of  St.  Mary 
Overey  by  Suthwerke,  co.  Surrey,  that  they  may  pray  for  the  king  at 
divine  service  within  the'ir  church,  of  all  the  king's  right  in  a  house 
within  the  close  of  their  church,  of  which  they  were  seised  beyond  the 
memory  of  man  until  Henry  YI.  caused  an  oven  to  be  made  within  it  for 
tlie  office  of  the  bakery  of  the  household,  so  that  for  want  of  repair  the 
house  is  falling  to  ruin.  By  p.s. 

Commission  to  William  Yelverton,  knight,  Peter  Ardern,  knight,  John 
Say,  Thomas  Colt,  John  Leventhorp  the  elder,  and  Ralph  Grey  to  enquire 
into  the  following  claim  of  Thomas  Baryngton  of  the  county  of  Essex, 
esquire,  and  to  certify  thereon  in  Chancery.     The  said  Thomas  has  shown 
that  one  John  Baryngton^  esquire,  his  father,  whose  heir  he  is,  was  seised 
in  his  demesne  as  of  ^e  of  a  messuage,  184  acres  of  land,  8  acres  of  meadow 
114  acres  of  pasture,  3  acres  of  wood  and  8«.  lOhi*  rent  called  '  Clynton  ' 
in  Little  Had  ham  by  Strortford,  co.  Hertford,  of  the  grant  of -one  Henry 
Clynton  late  of  Little  Hadham,  and  received  the  espleesand  continued  in  the 
possession  of  the  same  until  by  virtue  of  an  inquisition  taken  at  Much 
Hndham,  co.  Heitford,  on  Wednesday  before  St.  Matthew  Apostle,  9  Henry 
IV.  before  William  Clovyle,  then  escheator  in  the  county  of  Hertford,  it  was 
found  that  one  John  Plukenet,  convicted  of  high  tr^on  and  outlawed, 
held  in  his  demesne  as  of  fee  simple  on  Thursday  in  Whitsun  week,  7  Henry 
lY.  and  afterwards  divers  lands  in   the  town  of  Little  Hadham  called 
^  Clyntans '  of  the  grant  and  enfeoffment  of  John  Baryngton,  esquire,  and 
others,  and  afterwards  on  Tuesday  before  St.  Matthew,  9  Henry  IV.,  by 
virtue  of  another  inquisition  taken  at  Little  Hadham  on  Berygrene,  co. 
Hertford,  before  William  Clovile,  then  escheator,  it  was  found  that  one 
John  Plukenet,  convicted  of  high  treason  and  outlawed,  had  on  the  day 
of  his  forfeiture,  viz,  Thursday  in  Whitsun  week,  7  Henry  IV,,  and  after- 
wards a  messuage,  184  acres  of  arable  land,  8  acres  of  meadow,  114  acres  of 
pasture  and  3  acres  of  wood  in  Little  Hadham  called  '  Clyutons '  of  the 
grant    and    enfeoffment    of  John  Baryngton,  esquire,  and  others  with 
8j.    lO^cf.  rent  from  divers  tenants  there,  and  afterwards  by  virtue   of 
another  inquisition  taken  at  Ware,  co.  Hertford,  on  Tuesday  in  the  fourth 
week  of  l^ent,  11  Henry  IV.,  before  Thomas  Aspail,  then  escheator  in  the 
county,  it  was  found  that  one  John  Plukenet  was  seised  on  Thursday  in 
Whitsun  week,   7   Henry  IV.,  of   divers    lands  and  tenements    called 
'  Clynton  s '  in  Little  Hadham  of  tlie  grant  of  the  same  John  Baryngton, 
esquire ;  and  that  the  lands  mentioned  are  the  same  in  each  case  and  also  the 
John  Plukenet  mentioned ;  and  that  the  said  John  Baryngton  was  seised 
of  the  same  until  he  was  expelled   from  them   by  virtue  of  the    said 
inquisitions  and  letters  patent  da£ed  31  January,  9  Henry  IV.  made  for  life 
to  one  John  Rasshe,  esquire  ;  and  that  the  said  John  Baryngton  and  John 
Rasshe  are  dead  and  the  said  lands  have  come  to  the  hands  of  the  king  as 
true  heir  of  Edward  III.  and  Richard  II.,  Henry  VI.  having  been  removed 
from  the  throne  ;  and  he  prays  that  justice  may  be  done  to  him.        By  K. 


4  EDWARD  IV.— Part  I. 


339 


1464. 

Aug.  24. 
Woodstock. 


Aug  26. 
Woodstock. 


Aug.  24. 
Woodstock. 


Membrane  6 — cont. 

Presentation  of  William  Broun  to  the  parish  church  of  Wotton,  in  the 
diocese  of  Lincoln,  void  by  the  resignation  of  Matthew  ap  David  ap 
Wachaun. 

Presentation  of  Matthew  ap  David  ap  Wachaun  to  the  parish  church  of 
Stiple,  in  the  diocese  of  Salisbury,  void  by  the  resignation  of  Master 
William  Broun. 

Presentation  of  John  Abell  to  the  vicarage  of  the  parish  church  of 
Brokeland,  in  the  diocese  of  Canterbury,  void  by  the  death  of  John  Bred, 
late  vicar. 

Licence  for  John,  earl  of  Shrewsbury,  who  is  below  the  age  of  21  years, 
to  enter  freely  into  all  castles,  lordships,  manors,  lands,  rents,  reversions, 
services,  fees,  advowsons,  possessions  and  hereditaments  late  of  John,  late 
earl  of  Shrewsbury,  his  father,  in  England,  the  marches  of  Wales  and  the 
lordship  of  Ireland  and  in  the  king's  hands  by  reason  of  his  minority 
saving  to  the  crown  his  homage  and  fealty^  and  provided  that  he  does  not 
enter  into  any  possessions  granted  by  the  king  to  William  Herbert,  lord 
Herbert,  knight.  By  K. 


Aug.  24. 
Woodstock. 


Aug.  24. 
Woodstock. 


Aug.  22. 
[Penley. 


Aug.  26. 
Woodstock. 


Membrane  5. 

General  pardon  to  Thomas  Tropnell  of  Neston,  co.  Wilts,  '  gentilman,' 
for  all  offences  committed  by  him  before  I  August  last.  By  p.s. 

The  like  to  John  Mompesson  of  Bathampton  Willy,  co.  Wilts,  esquire. 

By  pj9. 

Presentation  of  Henry  Kendale,  parson  of  the  parish  church  of  Burgh* 
wasshe,  to  the  parish  church  of  West  Tylbury,  in  the  diocese  of  London,  on 
an  exchange  of  benefices  with  Henry  Cranebrok.  By  p.s. 

Commission  to  William  Yelverton,  knight,  Peter  Ardem,  knight,  John 
Say,  Thomas  Colt,  John  Leventhorp  the  elder  and  Ralph  Grey  to  enquire 
into  the  following  claim  of  Elizabeth  Vynter,  widow,  and  to  certify  thereon 
in  Chancery.  Tbe  said  Elizabeth  has  shown  that  one  Nicholas  Hywyssh 
late  of  Stansted  Mountfychet,  her  father,  whose  heir  she  is,  was  seised  in 
his  demesne  as  of  fee  of  a  messuage,  62  acres  of  land,  5  acres  of  meadow, 
10  acres  of  pasture,  4  acres  of  wood,  and  10«.  rent  in  Little  Hadham,  co. 
Hertford,  of  the  grant  and  enfeofiment  of  Margaret  Clynton,  late  of  Little 
Hadham,  late  the  wife  of  Henry  Clynton,  and  received  the  esplees  and  con- 
tinued in  the  possession  of  the  same  until  by  virtue  of  an  inquisition  taken 
at  Ware,  co.  Hertford,  on  Tuesday  in  the  fourth  week  of  Lent,  11 
Henry  IV.,  before  Thomas  Aspall,  then  escheator  in  the  county  of  Hert- 
ford, it  was  found  that  one  John  Pluknet,  convicted  of  high  treason  and 
outlawed,  was  seised  on  Thursday  in  Whitsun  week,  7  Henry  lY.  in  his 
demesne  as  of  fee  of  a  messuage  or  tenement  calle<i '  Warynstenement'  in 
Little  Hadham  of  the  grant  of  Margaret  Clynton  with  80  acres  of  land, 
pasture  and  wood  and  a  rent  of  10«,  and  the  said  escheator  took  the  same 
into  the  king's  hands ;  that  the  said  lands  and  tenements  are  the  same  as 
those  mentioned  above,  that  her  father  was  seised  of  the  same  until  he  was 
expelled  from  them  by  pretext  of  the  said  inquisition  and  letters  patent 
dated  31  January,  9  Henry  IV.,  to  one  John  Rasshe,  esquire,  for  life,  and 
that  the  said  John  Pluknet  never  had  any  right  in  them ;  and  that  he 
father  and  the  said  John  Rasshe  are  dead  and  the  said  lands  have  come  to 
the  hands  of  the  king  as  true  heir  of  Edward  HI.  and  Richard  II., 
Henry  VI.  having  been  removed  from  the  throne;  and  she  prays  that 
justice  may  be  done  to  her.  By  K. 

Grant,  during  pleasure,  to  John  Townende,  William  Qledil,  William 
Pristeley  and  John  Rode  the  elder  in  the  name  of  the  whole  number  of  the 
king's  tenants  of  Sourbisbire  of  8  marks  yearly  from  the  revenues  of  the 

Y  2 


340  CALENDAR  OP  PATENT  BOLLS. 


1464.  Membrane  5 — cont 

Ring's  lordship  of  Wakefeld  for  the  salarj  of  a  chaplain  to  celebrate  diyino 
Ber7ice  in  a  chapel,  which  the  king's  father  granted  licence  for  them  to 
build  for  their  easement  on  account  of  their  distance  from  their  charch, 
and  for  which  he  gave  timber  and  stone  and  promised  a  competent  salary 
for  a  chaplain.  By  K. 

Aug.  25.         Grant  for  life  to  the  king's  kinsman  Thomas,  earl  of  Desmond,  of  100/. 

Woodstock,  yearly  ;  and  grant  to  him,  for  the  greater  security  of  the  payment  of  the 
same,  of  the  manors  of  Trym,  Rathwere,  Kildalke,  Kathtouth,  Belgard  and 
Fonre,  reaching  103/.  yearly,  in  payment  of  the  said  100/.  By  K. 

Aug.  25.  Inspeximus  and  confirmation  to  the  cordwainers  of  the  town  of  Oxford 
Woodstock,  of  letters  patent  dated  14  February,  4  Richard  II.,  inspecting  and  con- 
firming a  charter  dated  at  Westminster,  18  May,  20  Edward  III.  \_Charter 
Roily  20  Edward  III.^  No.  13,]  inspecting  and  confirming  a  charter  dated 
at  York,  3  June,  12  Edward  II.  inspecting  and  confirming  with  additions  a 
charter  dated  at  Woodstock,  18  December,  4t5  Henry  III.,  inspecting  and 
confirming  a  charter  of  Henry  II.  dated  at  Woodstock. 

For  10  marks  paid  in  the  hanaper. 

Aug.  26.         Grant  for  life  to  the  king's  servitor  William  Spenne,  yeoman  of  the 
Woodstock,    pantry,  f  n  consideratian  of  the  loss  which  he  has  sustained  by  the  resump- 
tion in  Parliament  in  Ireland  of  the  king's  grant  of  10  marks  which  he 
had  there,  of  10  marks  yearly  from  the  issues  of  the  king's  manor  of  Esker 
in  Ireland,  non^residence  notwithstanding.  By  K. 

Aug.  25.         Grant  for  life  to  Walron  Wellesley  of  the  lordships  and  manors  called 

Woodstock.    Biakcastell  and  Donnamore,  co.  Meath,  in  Ireland,  late  of  James,  late  earl 

of  Ormond  and  Wilt-shire,  and  in  the  king's  hands  by  his  forfeiture,  not 

exceeding  the  yearly  value  of  40  marks,  with  all  issues  in  the  same  manner 

as  the  said  earl  had  them.  By  tL.* 

Aug.  27.         Grant  for  life  to  the  king's  servitor  William  Herbert,  esquire,  one  of  the 

Woodstock,     clerks  of  the  signet,  of  the  office  of  escheator  within  the  county  of  Caer- 

narvan  in  North  Wales,  with  all  fees  and  profits  in  the  same  manner  as  any 

other  occupant  of  the  office.  By  K. 

Membranb  4. 

Aug.  1.  Grant  to  the  king's  kinsman  John  Neville,  earl  of  Northumberland  and 

Westminster,  lord  of  Montagu,  and  the  heirs  of  his  body,  for  his  good  service  in  the 
north  against  the  rebels  and  the  Scots,  of  the  castles,  manors  and  lordships 
of  Alnewyk,  Werk worth,  Langeley,  Furdhowe,  with  the  baronies  of  Ovynge- 
ham  and  Whelpyngton,  and  the  tower  and  manor  of  Aylneham  with  all 
members  and  appurtenances  in  the  county  of  Northumberland,  the  borough 
and  town  of  Alnemouth,  the  manors  of  Newham,  Elyngham,  Newstede, 
Lukre,  Fawdon  on  Brymnyshe,  Thirsterton,  Adyngton  and  Biriyng  with  all 
members  and  appurtenances,  forty  messuages,  1000  acres  of  land,  300  acres  of 
meadow,  1000  acres  of  pasture,  200  acres  of  wood,  200  acres  of  turbary  and 
100^.  of  rent  in  Alnevrfrk,  Bugle,  Langhoughton,  Lessebury,  Aybnouth, 
Ailneham  and  Ailneham  More,  Bilton,  Tughall,  Swhynhowe,  Chatton  and 
Southcharleton,  twenty'messuages,  300  acres  of  land,  100  acres  of  meadow,  200 
acres  of  pasture,  100  acres  of  wood  and  100  acres  of  turbary  in  Werkworth, 
Langeley,  Purdhowe,  Ovyngeham,  Whelpyngton,  Newham,  Elyngeham, 
Newstede,  Lukre,  Thirsterton,  Biriyng  and  Adyngton,  co.  Northumberland, 
with  advowsons,  knights'  fees,  courts,  markets,  ^urs,  leets,  views  of  frank 
pledge,  parks,  warrens,  stews,  waters,  fisheries  and  other  commodities,  a 
messuage  in  the  town  of  Newcnstle-on-Tyne,  the  manor  of  Walwykgraunge 
within  the  liberty  of  Tyndale,  the  town  and  lordship  of  Haweden,  the  town 
and  lordship  of  Cbarleton,  the  town  and  lordship  of  Overthornbum,  the  town 
and  lordship  of  Nether  Thomburn,  twenty-eight  messuages,  1000  acres  of  land, 


4  EDWABD  IV.— Part  I. 


341 


1464. 


Aug.  10. 

Stamford. 


Aug.  11. 
Stamford. 


Membrane  4 — corU. 

300  acres  of  meadow,  2000  acres  of  pasture,  200  acres  of  wood,  200  acres 
of  turbary  and  2000  acres  of  moor  in  Walwykgraunge,  Hawedon,  Charleton, 
Overihombum,  Nether  Thornburn,  le  Sjde,  le  Grejsyde,  Langehalgh, 
GlosehiU,  BullishiU,  Neuton,  Sondaysyght,  Heghmore,  Emlopp,  Smalehall, 
Stokhall,  Bromebous,  Came,  HeiUested,  Dunstede,  Yatebous,  Grenebalgh 
Grenestede,  Cariteth,  Tresset,  Tressetparke,  Barnes,  Yarowe  and  Sidwode 
witbin  the  liberty  of  Tyndale  and  all  otber  manors  and  lands  called  ^  Talbot- 
landes '  within  the  said  liberty  of  Tyndale  and  all  other  castles,  manors, 
lordships,  messuages,  Lmds,  meadows,  pastures,  woods,  turf,  reversions  and 
moors  late  of  Henry  Percy,  the  last  earl  of  Northumberland,  in  the  said  county 
or  within  the  said  liberty  on  the  day  of  bis  death,  the  manor  of  Bycar,  co. 
Northumberland  excepted,  which  came  to  the  king's  hands  by  his  forfeiture 
and  rebellion  and  by  reason  of  an  act  in  Parliament  at  Westminster, 
4  NoTcmber,  1  Edward  IV.  the  barony  and  lordship  of  Benele,  the  manors 
of  Shilbotell,  Gisyns  and  Renyngton  and  the  forest  of  Bymsyde,  co. 
Northumberland,  forty  mebsuages,  500  acres  of  land,  200  acres  of  meadow, 
300  acres  of  wood  and  1000  acres  of  moor  in  Shilbotill,  Gysyns,  Benyngton 
and  Bymsyde,  and  the  castle,  manor  and  lordship  of  Wresill,  co.  York,  with 
all  members  and  appurtenances  with-advowsons  and  knights'  fees,  and  the 
reversion  of  the  manors  of  Bothbery,  Newbnm  and  Corbrig,  co.  Northumber- 
land, with  advowBons  and  knights'  fees,  on  the  death  of  Eleanor,  countess  of 
Northumberland,  daughter  of  Balph  late  earl  of  Westmoreland,  to  hold  with 
advowsons,  knights'  fees,  courts,  markets,  fairs,  leets,  views  of  frank  pledge, 
parks,  warrens,  stews,  waters,  fisheries  and  other  commodities  by  the  service 
of  one  knight's  fee.  By  K, 

Vacated  by  surrender  and  cancelled^  io  far  as  concerns  the  castles^ 
lordskipSf  manors^  baroniesy  messuagesy  lands,  rents,  reversions  and 
services  late  of  Henry  Percy,  late  earl  of  Northumberland,  in  the  county 
of  Northumberland,  by  mandate  of  the  king,  22  February^  9  Edward 
IV. 

Grant  in  mortmain  to  the  mayor  and  commonalty  of  the  town  of  New- 
castle on  Tyne,  in  consideration  of  the  great  expenses  they  have  sustained 
in  the  safe-custody  and  defence  of  the  town  and  the  surrounding  parts  and 
in  resisting  the  rebels,  of  the  manor  of  Bicar  in  Bicar,  co.  Northumberland, 
and  all  lands,  rents,  services,  advowsons  of  chapels,  meadows,  pastures,  woods, 
turbary,  moor  and  fisheries  late  of  Henry,  last  earl  of  Northumberland, 
in  Bicar,  in  the  king's  hands  by  his  forfeiture  and  rebellion  and  by  reason 
of  an  act  in  Parliament  at  Westminster,  4  November,  1  Edward  IV. 

By  K.  and  for  30/.  paid  in  the  hanaper. 

Exemption  for  life  of  William,  ai'chbishop  of  York,  on  account  of  his 
debility  and  old  age,  from  attendance  in  council  or  Parliament.     [Foedera,'] 

By  p.s. 

Inspeximus  and  confirmation  to  Elizabeth,  the  prioress,  and  the  nuns 
of  St.  Mary,  Wilberfosse,  of  the  following  : — 

1.  A  charter  of  Henry  I.  [rectiui  II.]  as  follows  : — 

//.  dei  gratia  rex  Anglic  et  dux  Normannie  ct  Aquilainie  ct  comes 
Andegavie,  archiepiscopis,  episcopis,  abbatibus,  comitibus,  baronibus, 
justiciariis  vicecomitibus  minis tris  et  otnnibus  fidelibus  suis  Francis 
et  Anglis  totius  Anglic  salutem,  Sciatis  me  concessisse  et  dedisse 
in  elenwsinam  et  prescnti  carta  confirmasse  deo  et  ecclesie  Sancte 
Marie  de  IVilburchfossa  et  sanctimonialibus  ibidem  deo  servientibus 
capellam  Wictonie  et  quicquid  ei  adiacet  et  omnes  alias  donationes 
que  raiionabi liter  eis  facte  sunt  stent  carte  donatorum  testantur, 
ex  dono  Jordani  filio  Gilberti  ecclesiam  de  fVilbursa  cum  omnibus 
pertirientiis  suis  sicut  carta  ipsius  et  carta  Rogeri  Eboracensis 
archicpiscopt  et  H,  JJunelmensis  episcopi  tunc  temporis  the- 
saurarii  et  carta  capituli  sancti  Petri  Eboraci  testantur,  et  ex  dono 


342  CALENDAR  OF  PATENT  ROLLS. 


1464.  Membrane  4 — cont. 

Willelmi  filii  Roherti  de  Wilburfosse  unam  hovatam  terre  cum 
toftht  in  eadem  villa  ettotam  ierram  suam  arahilem  super  Dere- 
wente  juxta  CatV  cum  prato  et  culturam  suajn  latitudinis  ix 
parcarum  ubi  grangie  sue  sedent  sicut  ea  data  fuerunt  assensu 
uxoris  site  et  heredum  suorum,  secundum  testimonium  carte  ipsius 
JFillelmi,  et  ex  dono  Osberti  filii  Ulgerii  de  Wilburchfosse  totam 
t  err  am  cum  prato  que  per  line  t  ad  suam  carrugatam  terre  de 
Derewente  j^tMa  Cafton  sicut  carta  ipsius  testatur  secundum  quod 
carte  Willelmi  de  Perci  et  Roberti  filii  Roberti  filii  Ifulconis  do- 
minorum  predictorum  donatorum  testantur  donationes  istas  conces- 
sione  et  assensu  eorum  factas  J'uisse.  Concedo  etiam  donationem 
eisfactam  de  ecclesia  de  Tfilbugfossa  et  de  capella  de  Nevcton  cum 
jjertinentiis  eorum  sicut  carte  sue  et  cir[ograpfmm]conventus  deGrene- 
feld  testantur.  Quare  volo  etfir?niter  precipio  quodpredicta  ecclesia 
sancte  Marie  et  moniales  in  ea  deo  servientes  omnia  supradicta 
habeant  et  teneant  bene  et  in  pace  libere  et  quiete  integre  et 
plenarie  et  honorifice  in  bosco  et  in  piano  in  pratis  et  pasturis  in 
aquis  et  molendinis  in  viis  et  semitis  et  in  omnibus  aliis  locis  et 
aliis  rebus  ad  ea  pertijientibus  et  cum  omnibus  libertatibus  et 
liberis  consuetudinibus  suis  sicut  rationabiliter  eis  datce  sunt  et 
sicut  carte  donatorum  testantur.  Testibus  G.  episcopo  JEliense 
Johanne  decano  Sarum^comite  Willelmo  de  Mand[evilla'\y  Willelmo 
filio  Aid"  dapifero,  Rantdpho  de  Glandvilla,  Ragin'  de  CurteOytVill- 
elmode  Lamall,  Thomas  Basset,  Thoma  Bard[ulf  ]  apud  Eboracum. 
2.  A  charter  of  Edward  Til.  undated,  confirming  divers  private  grants 
to  them.  For  2  maiks  paid  in  the  hanaper« 

Aug.  19.  Grant  to  Henry  Curteys  of  Grantham  and  his  assigns  of  the  custody  of 

Wc8tminster.  Alice  Fyssh,  who  is  an  idiot,  and  of  all  her  lands  and  tenements  in  Harre- 
ardby,  co.  Lincoln,  and  of  all  other  lands  and  tenements  held  in  chief 
wliich  came  into  the  king's  hands  by  reason  of  her  idiotcy  as  appears  by 
an  inquisition  taken  before  John  Burgh,  escheatorin  the  county  of  Lincoln, 
to  hold  the  same  during  her  life.  By  K. 

Sept.  3.  Licence  for  the  sub-prior  and  convent  oi  Bernewell  to  elect  a  prior  in 

Penley.        the  place  of  John  Poket,  deceased. 

Mbmbrane  3. 

May  29.  Grant  to  the  king's  servant  William   Stanley,  knight,  and  the  heirs  male 

York.  of  his  body  of  the  castle,  manor  and  lordship  of  Skipton  in  Craven,  co. 
York,  and  the  manor  of  Marton  in  Craven,  co.  York,  with  all  towns, 
townships,  hamlets,  lands,  rents,  services,  reversions,  advowsonc,  fees,  fee 
farms,  oiiices,  franchises,  liberties,  mines  of  coal  and  lead  and  all  other 
possessions  belonging  to  the  same  or  in  Craven,  co.  York,  late  of  John 
Clifford,  knight,  late  lord  Clifford,  on  29  March,  1  Edward  IV.  and  in  the 
king's  hands  by  virtue  of  an  act  of  attaint  or  forfeiture  in  Parliament  at 
Westminster,  4  November,  1  Edward  IV.  with  all  issues  from  the  said 
29  March.  Grant  to  him  also  and  his  said  heirs  within  the  said  castle, 
manors,  lordship,  towns,  townships,  hamlets  and  fee  of  Skipton  of  all  waifs, 
strays,  forfeitures,  goods  and  chattels  of  felons,  fugitives  and  outlaws, 
deodands  and  treasure  trove,  free  warren  and  free  chase,  and  return  of 
writs  and  executiuns.  By  I^. 

June  3.  Grant  for  life  to  the  king's  servant  George  Scalby,  one  of  the  clerks  of 

WestminBter.  the  Exchequer,  of  the  office  of  clerk  of  the  crown  of  the  county  of  York 

with  all  fees  in  the  same  manner  as  Robert  Davyson,  late  occupant  of  the 

office.  By  p.s. 

June  11.         Commission  to  the  king's  kinsmen   Richard,  earl  of  Warwick  and  Salis- 
Tork.        bury,  great  chamberlain  of  England  and  warden  of  the  west  march  of 


4  EDWARD  IV.—Part  I.  343 


1464.  *    Membrane  3 — cont, 

Scotland,  and  John,  earl  of  Northumberland,  warden  of  the  east  march  of 
Scotland,  to  receive  into  grace  certain  rebels,  Ralph  Gray  and  HumphrejT 
Neviie,  knights,  excepted,  and  to  promise  them  their  lands,  and  to  promise 
rewards  to  the  king's  subjects  who  have  endangered  their  persons  in  the 
capture  of  certain  castles  in  the  couaty  of  Northumberland.     [^Foedera.'] 

By  K. 

June  1.  Greneral  pardon  to  Archibald  Ridley  of  Langeley,  'gentilman,'  of  all 

York.        offences  committed  by  him  from  the  first  day  of  the  reign  until  20  May 

last.  By  K. 

July  2.  Appointment  for  life  of  the  king's  servant  Thomas  Burgh,  knight,  as 

Pontefraot,    master  of  the  king's  hunt  within  the  king's  lordships  of  Hattef eld,  Thoorne 

and  Conesburgh,  co.  York,  having  as  fee  the  king's  manor  of  Gatehalle,  co. 

York,  not  exceeding  the  yearly  value  of  40^.,  without  rendering  any  account. 

ByK. 

July  2.  Pardon  to  Hugh  Lucas  of  Exeter,  co.  Devon, '  yoman,'  of  all  felonies, 

PoQtefract.    trespasses  and  crimes  of  which  by  his  own  cognizance  he  was  attainted 

or  convicted  before  any  coroner  in  any  county  or  place  in  the  realm  and  his 

consequent  abjuration.  Bj  K. 

July  2.  Grant  to  John  Scot,  knight,  controller  of  the  king's  household,  or  his 

Pontefract.  executors  after  his  death  of  all  moneys  arising  from  the  subsidy  called 
*  tonnage  and  poundage,'  viz,  the  3^.  in  the  tun  and  the  I2d,  in  the  pound, 
in  the  port  of  the  city  of  London  at  the  hands  of  the  collectors  immediately 
after  the  full  repayment  of  1938/.  128,  Sd.  to  the  king's  kinsman  John,  earl 
of  Worcester,  and  960/.  Ss,  Hd.  to  Robert  Styllington,  king's  clerk,  keeper 
of  the  privy  seal,  from  the  said  subsidy  in  the  poii;s  of  London.  Southampton 
and  Sandwich,  as  granted  to  them  by  letters  patent  dated  30  June,  3 
Edward  IV.,  until  he  shall  be  fully  satisfied  of  the  sum  of  256/.  3;.  6d,  in 
wliieh  the  king  is  indebted  to  him  for  having  prepared  divers  ships  in  the 
port  of  Sandwich  at  the  king's  command  and  taken  them  to  the  north  with 
victuals  and  soldiers  on  the  defence  of  the  realm.  And  until  he  be  thus 
fully  satisfied  he  shall  as  often  as  he  pleases  nominate  a  suitable  person  to 
the  treasurer  of  .England  to  be  appointed  one  of  the  collectors  of  the  said 
subsidy.  By  K. 

July  3.  Signification  to  J.  bishop  of  Worcester  of  the  royal  assent  to  the  election 

Pontefract,    of  John  Sobbury,  canon  of  the  monastery  of  St.  Mary,  Cirencestre,  of  the 

order  of  St.  Augustine,  as  abbot  of  that  place.  By  K. 

July  2.  Grant  for  life  to  the  king's  servant  Nicholas  Downell,  late  servant  to  the 

Pontefract.     king's  brother  the  earl  of  Rutland,  for  his  good  service  to  the  king's  father 

and  brother  and  to  the  king,  of  the  ofiice  of  the  serjeanty  of  tlie  county  of 

Uriel  in  Ireland,  now  void  by  the  death  of  John  Water,  with  the  accustomed 

fees,  notwithstanding  any  act  concerning  absence.  By  K. 

July  3.  Grant  to  Richard  Facet  of  all  goods  and  chattels  late  of  John  de  Hille  of 

Pontefract.     Teleby,  co.  Lincoln,  forfeited  to  the  king  by  his  rebellion,  not  exceeding  the 

value  of  20/.  By  K. 

1465. 

Feb.  22.  Grant,  during  pleasure,  to  John  Austyn  of  the  office  of  tronage  and  pesage 

Westminster,  in  the  port  of  Ipswich  and  ports  and  places  adjacent,  receiving  the  accustomed 

fees.  By  bill  of  the  treasurer. 

Membrane  2. 

Feb.  8.  Grant  for  life  to  Richard  Grofte  the  younger,  esquire,  and  the  king's 

Westminster,   servitor  Thomas  Crofte,  his  brother,  esquire,  of  the  office  of  parker  or 

keeper  of  the  king's  park  of  Wodestoke,  co.  Oxford,  and  porter  of  the  park, 

and  the  ofFice  of  surveyor  and  controller  of  the  works  of  the  manor  of 

Wodeatoke,  the  office  of  gardener  or  keeper  of  the  king's  garden  in  the 


344  CALENDAR  OF  PATENT  BOLLS. 


1465.  Membrane  2 — cofU, 

manor,  and  the  custody  or  o£G[ce  of  keeper  of  the  meadows  of  the  manor, 
from  4  March,  1  Edward  lY.  with  fees  as  in  the  time  of  Edward  m.  from 
the  issues  of  the  manor;  in  lieu  of  like  grants  of  the  same  offices  to  the  said 
Richard  for  life  by  letters  patent  dated  10  August,  1  Edward  lY.  and  8 
November,  1  Edward  lY.  surrendered.  By  p.s. 

Mandate  in  pursuance  to  the  farmers  of  the  man  or  for  the  payment 
of  18J.  daily  and  40^.  yearly,  with  arrears  of  the  same  from  4  March, 
1  Edward  lY. 

Feb.  12.  Appointment  for  life  of  Robert  Bradbury  as  one  of  the  king's  Serjeants 

WeBtminBter.  at  arms,  with  wages  of  12^.  daily  at  the  hands  of  the  treasurer  of  England 

and  a  livery  yearly  at  Christmas  at  the  great  wardrobe  of  the  suit  of  the 

esquires  of  the  household.  By  p.s. 

1464. 

Oct.  4.  General  pardon  to  John  Nayler  late  of  London,  esquire,  cdias  ^  gentil- 

Reading,      man,'  for  all  offences  committed  by  him  before  20  June  last,  of  which  he 

was  attainted  in  Parliament.  By  K. 

1465. 

Feb.  3.  The  like  to  John  Mason  of  Kentysshtown,  '  yoroan,'  alias  of  Isseldon, 

Westminster,   co.    Middlesex,  'laboi*er,'  for  all  offences   committed  by  him  before  27 

January  last.  By  p.8. 

Feb.  23.  Pardon  to  John  Faynt  of  Theydon  Gamon,  co.  Essex, '  yoman,'  o/uw  of 

Westminster.  Ghyngford,  co.  Essex,  riding  forester,  for  all  trespasses,  offences,  mis- 
prisions, contempts,  wastes,  forfeitures  of  vert  and  venison,  sale  of  woods, 
etc.  committed  by  him  before  19  February  last  within  England  and  the 
marches  of  Wales,  and  of  all  consequent  imprisonments,  fines  and  amerce- 
ments. By  p.s. 

Feb.  22.  Grant  for  life  to  John  Pylkyngton,  one  of  the  esquires  of  the  body,  of  tho 

Westminster,   office  of  chief  forester  or  master  forester  of  the  king's  chace  of  Soureby,  co. 

York,  and  the  office  of  parker  of  the  king's  park  of  Ayringden,  co.  York, 

and  also  of  the  herbage  and  pasture  of  the  park  in  full  satisfaction  of  all  the 

fees  for  the  said  offices.  By  p.s. 

Feb.  28.  General  pardon  to  Christopher  Bentlay    of  York,  ^  marchaunt,'  alias 

Westminster.    «hostiller.*  By  p.8. 

March  1.  Grant  for  life  to  John  Penfoun,  esquire,  of  the  office  of  keeper  and  the 
Westminitcr.  custody  of  the  king's  parks  of  Hellesbury  and  Lenteglos,  co.  Cornwall, 
receiving  the  accustomed  fees  from  the  issues  of  the  duchy  of  Cornwall  at 
the  hands  of  the  receiver  general  of  the  duchy,  in  lieu  of  a  like  grant  of  the 
office  of  keeper  of  the  said  park  of  Hellesbury  to  the  king's  servitor  Thomas 
Melley  by  letters  patent  dated  6  December,  1  Edward  lY.  surrendered. 

By  p.8. 

Membrane  1. 

Feb.  4.  Grant  to  Thomas  Blount,  enquire,  and  the  heirs  male  of  his  body;  for  his 

Westminster,  good  service  to  the  king  and  the  king's  father  Richard,  duke  of  York,  of 
the  manors  of  Melton  Roos,  Wotton  and  Elsham,  co.  Lincoln,  with  all 
members  and  appurtenances  in  Melton  Roos,  Wotton,  Elsham,  Bametby, 
Bekeby,  Kymyngton,  Ulceby,  Glaumfordbrigge,  Wrawby,  Grouxhill, 
Burnham,  Thornton  and  elsewhere  in  the  county,  late  of  Thomas  Roos, 
knight,  late  Lord  Roos,  a  isheepfold  and  60  acres  of  meadow  in  Gouxhill 
which  the  said  Thomas  Boos  and  his-'iarmers  of  Melton  occupied,  30  acres 
of  meadow  in  Gouxhill  which  the  said  Thomas  Roos,  late  IqixI  of  the  said 
manor  of  Wotton,  and  hia  tenants  there  occupied,  and  all  other  lands,  rents, 
reversions,  services,  knights'  fees,  advowsows,  views  of  frank  pledge,  courts 
leet,  and  other  possessions  late  of  the  said  Thomas  Roos  i^  Melton  Roos, 


4  EDWARD  IV.— Part  1.  346 


1465.  Membrane  1— con^. 

Wotton,  Elsham,  Barnetby,  Bekeby,  Kyrnyngton,  Ulceby,  Glaumford- 
brigge,  Wrawby,  Burnbam  and  Thornton,  in  the  king's  hands  by  force  of 
an  act  in  Parliament  at  Westminster,  4  November,  1  Edward  IV.  to  hold 
the  same  with  knights'  fees,  advowsons,  courts  leet,  views  of  frank-pledge, 
escheats,  warrens,  fairs^  markets,  chattels  of  felons,  fugitives  and  outlaws, 
and  all  other  liberties,  with  issues  from  4  March,  1  Edward  IV.  Grant  to 
him  also  as  above  of  the  manor  of  Lyndewode  Bayons  in  Lyndewode,  co. 
Lincoln,  the  manor  called  Thoresway  Bayons  alias  Thoresway  Nevile  with 
members  and  appurtenances  in  Thoresway,  co.  Lincoln,  3  messuages,  2 
carucates  of  land,  20  acres  of  meadow  and  20  acres  of  pasture  in  Wynter- 
ton,  00.  Lincoln,  9  messuages,  3  cottages,  5  tofts,  16  bovates  of  land,  24 
acres  of  meadow,  40  acres  of  pasture,  60  acres  of  wood,  100  acres  of  heath, 
and  28.  Id,  rent,  a  rent  of  a  pound  of  cumin  in  Lyndewode,  6  messuages,  12 
bovates  of  land,  20  acres  of  meadow,  100  acres  of  pasture,  40  acres  of 
heath  and  7d,  rent  in  Thoresway,  and  a  capital  messuage,  6  other  messuages, 
6  carucates  of  land,  30  acres  of  meadow,  and  20  acres  of  pasture  in  Teleby, 
CO.  Lincoln,  in  the  king's  hands  by  force  of  an  act  in  the  said  Parliament 
against  William  Beaumont,  knight,  late  viscount  Beaumont,  with  knights' 
fees,  advowsons,  courts  leet,  views  of  frank  pledge,  wards,  marriages, 
reliefs,  escheats,  warrens,  fairs,  markets  and  all  other  liberties,  with  issues 
from  the  said  4  March.  .  By  p.s. 

March  3.  Mandate  to  the  escheator  in  the  county  of  Cambridge  for  the  rastitution 
Westminster,  of  the  temporalities  of  the  monastery  of  St.  Albans  to  William  Albon, 
doctor  of  decrees,  monk  of  the  monastery,  who  has  been  elected  abbot  in 
the  place  of  Master  John  Whethamstede,  late  abbot,  deceased,  in  accordance 
with  an  indult  of  the  apostolic  see,  granted  at  the  supplication  of  Richard  II. 
[Fosdera.']  By  p.s. 

The  like  to  the  escheators  in  the  following  counties : — 
Bedford  and  Buckingham. 
Sussex. 
Northampton. 
Essex'and  Hertford. 
Kent  and  Middlesex. 
York. 
Lincoln. 

"Rflrkfl 

Norfoik  and  Suffolk. 
Northumberland. 
Writ  de  intendendo  in  pursuance  to  the  tenants. 

1464. 

May  14.  Grant  to  John  Lambard  or  his  executors  after  his  death  of  418/.  IBs.  2d. 
Westminster,  from  the  first  moneys  arising  from  all  customs  and  subsidies  in  the  port  of 
Southampton,  in  full  payment  of  the  same  sum  owed  to  him  by  the  king  for 
four  tallies  levied  at  the  receipt  of  the  Exchequer,  viz.  two  tallies  levied  on 
13  May,  2  Edward  IV.  for  him  for  moneys  lent  by  him  and  Thomas  Gtiy, 
collector  of  the  customs  and  subsidy  of  wools  and  the  petty  custom  in  the 
port  of  Southampton  from  the  same  customs  and  subsidies,  one  tally  levied 
on  25  February,  2  Edward  IV,  for  him  for  moneys  lent  as  above,  and  one 
tally  levied  on  5  March,  3  Edward  IV.  for  him  for  moneys  lent  as  above,  of 
which  be  has  not  yet  received  payment.  By  p.s. 

Membranbs  25d-22d. 

Commissions  of  the  peace  in  various  countie?  pursuant  to  the  statutes  of 
Winchester,  Northampton  and  Westminster  and  the  statutes  and  ordinances 
there  and  at  Cambridge.    (See  Appendix.) 


346  CALENDAR  OP  PATENT  ROLLS. 


1464^  Mbmbranb  20d. 

March  14.        Commission  to  the  sheriff  of  Westmoreland  to  arrest  John  Salkeld  and 
Westminster,  bring  him  before  the  king  in  Chancery. 

Mbmbranb  Idd. 

April  19.  Commission  of  oyer  and  terminer  to  the  king's  kinsman  John,  duke  of 
Westminster.  Suffolk,  John  Lovell  of  Lovell,  knight,  John  Wenlok  of  Wenlok,  knight, 
John  Markham,  knight,  Robert  Danby,  knight,  William  Yelverton,  knight, 
Richard  Byngham,  Peter  Ardern,  knight,  Nicholas  Ayssheton,  Robert 
Danvers,  Walter  Moile,  John  Nedeham,  Robert  Harecourt,  knight,  Richard 
Harecourt,  Richard  Quatermayns  and  Edmund  Rede  within  the  counties  of 
Oxford  and  Berks.  By  p.s. 

Mbmbranb  ISd, 

March  27.  The  like  to  the  kiug's  kinsmen  Richard,  earl  of  Warwick  and  Salisbury, 
Westminster.  William,  earl  of  Arundel,  John,  earl  of  Worcester,  and  Henry,  earl  of 
Essex,  and  Edward  Nevill  of  Bergevenney,  knight,  William  Hastynges 
of  Hastynges,  knight,  John  Wenlok  of  Wenlok,  knight,  Richard  Fenys  of 
Dacre,  knight,  John  Markham,  knight,  Robert  Danby,  knight,  William 
Yelverton,  knight,  Richard  Byngham,  Peter  Ardern,  knight,  Nicholas 
Ayssheton,  Robert  Danvers,  Walter  Moyle,  John  Nedeham,  Richard  Chok, 
John  Fogge,  knight,  and  John  Scotte,  knight,  within  the  county  of  Kent. 

Mbmbranb  l7d. 

March  14.  Commission  to  William  Sutton,  knight,  master  of  the  hospital  of  Burton 
Westminster.  St.  Lazarus  of  Jerusalem  in  England,  Richard  Nele,  John  Pulteuey, 
esquire,  and  Robert  Staunton  to  enquire  into  the  petition  of  the  abbot  and 
convent  of  the  monastery  of  St.  Mary,  Leicester,  that  whereas  the  monastery 
was  founded  in  frank  almoin  by  Robert  Melan,  sometime  earl  of  Leicester, 
and  one  Richard,  sometime  abbot,  and  the  convent  held  it  quit  of  all 
corrodies  or  sustenances  to  be  gran  ted  at  the  request  of  any  king  of  England 
in  time  of  peace  in  the  time  of  Edward  II.  and  the  patronage  of  the 
monastery  came  into  the  hands  of  Henry  III.  by  the  forfeiture  of  Simon 
Mountford,  late  earl  of  Leicester,  patron  of  the  monasteiy  as  kinsman  and 
heir  of  the  said  Robert  Melan,  viz.  son  of  Amy  sister  of  Robert  son  of 
Robert  Blaunchmeyns,  son  of  Robert  Bossu,  son  of  the  said  Robert  Melan, 
and  thence  descended  successively  to  Edward  I.  Edward  JI.  Edward  III. 
and  Richard  II.  and  finally  to  the  present  king  as  kinsman  and  heir  of 
Richard  II.  viz.  son  of  Richard  son  of  Anne  sister  of  Edmund  son  of 
Philippa  daughter  of  Lionel  brother  of  Edward  father  of  Richard  II.  and 
the  said  Richard,  then  abbot,  and  the  convent  at  the  special  request  of 
Edward  III.  granted  to  one  John  de  la  Sale  such  sustenance  in  their  house 
for  life  as  William  Pavylloner  had,  who  served  all  his  days  in  the  monastery 
and  in  his  old  age  was  granted  a  sustenance  without  request  of  any  king, 
and  afterwards  by  letters  patent  dated  8  January,  3  Edward  J II.  the  king 
granted  that  this  grant  should  not  be  to  their  prejudice,  nevertheless  divers 
other  grants  of  like  sustenance  have  been  made  by  their  predecessors  at  the 
special  request  of  Edward  III.  Richard  II.  and  Henry  lY.  until  they  are 
overburdened,  whei'efore  they  pray  that  justice  may  be  done.  By  K. 

March  20.        Commission  of  oyer  and  terminer  to  Walter  Moyle,  Robert  Martyn,  mayor 
Westminster,  of  the  town  of  Fevcrsham,  Thomas  Mnreachall  and  John  Chirch  within  the 
said  town  and  its  precincts. 

March  26.        Commission  to  William  Pawelet,  knight,  Wjilter  Raiegh,  John  GyfTord, 
Westminster.  Robert  Stowell,  John   Sydenham   the   younger,  John   Denys   and  John 


4  EDWARD  IV.— Paht  I.  347 


1464.  Membrane  XTti^^cont. 

Porter,  to  enquire  by  oath  of  good  men  of  the  county  of  Somerset  what 
honours,  castles,  lordships,  manors,  lands,  rents,  reversions,  annuities, 
offices,  fees,  ndvowsons  or  other  possessions  Robert  Hungerford  of  Moleyns, 
knight,  late  lord  Hungerford,  attainted  by  authority  of  an  act  in  Parlia- 
ment at  Westminster,  held  on  4  March,  1  Edward  IV.  or  since,  who  has 
received  the  profits  in  the  mean  time,  and  at  what  sum  they  are 
extended. 

April  7.  Commission  to  the  king's  kinsman  Richard,  earl  of  Warwick,  constable 

WestmiiiBter.   of  Dover  castle  and  warden  of  the  Cinque  Ports,  John  Clerk,  Robert 

Martyn,  Thomas  Mareschall   and  John  Box,  to  arrest  William  Norton, 

Reginald  Norton,  Richard  Norton   and  Martin   Husee   and   bring  ihem 

before  the  king  in  Chancery. 

April  17.  Notification  to  John  Fo^ge,  knight,  treasurer  of  the  household,  John 
Westminster.  Scotte,  knight,  controller  of  the  household,  and  Thomas  Colte  to  permit 
Laurence  Bothe,  bishop  of  Durham,  to  enter  into  and  occupy  the  tem- 
poralities and  all  lands  and  other  possessions  of  his  bishopric,  notwith- 
standing that  the  custody  of  the  temporalities  was  granted  to  them  by 
letters  patent  dated  28  December,  2  Edward  IV.  By  p.s. 

Mbmbrane  \6d. 

April  27.  Commission  of  oyer  and  terminer  to  the  king's  kinsman  John,  duke  of 
Westminster.  Suffolk,  John  Burgchier  of  Barnes,  knight,  John  Wennok  of  Wenlok, 
knight,  John  Markham,  knight,  Robeit  Dauby,  knight,  William  Yelverton, 
knight,  Richard  Byngham,  Peter  Ardem,  knight,  Nicholas  Asshton, 
Robert  Danvers,  Walter  Moyie,  John  Nedeham,  Richard  Chok,  Robert 
Harecourt,  knight,  Richard  Harecourt,  Richard  Quatermayns,  Edmund 
Rede,  Master  William  Godyere,  Richard  Crofte  and  Peter  Marmyon, 
touching  certain  treasons,  insurrections,  rebellions,  felonies  and  other 
offences  committed  by  John  Merchaunt  late  of  Sanford,  co.  Oxford, 
'  yoman,'  and  Roger  Merchaunt,  late  of  London, '  fysshmonger,'  within  the 
counties  of  Oxford  and  Berks.  By  K. 

May  3.  Commission  to  Thomas  Osbern,  one  of  the  king's  Serjeants  at  arms,  to 

Westminster,  enquire  by  oath  of  good  men  of  the  counties  of  Lincoln,  Norfolk,  Suffolk, 
^^x,  Kent  and  Sussex  into  the  complaint  of  certain  merchants  of  Venice 
that  when  they  had  freighted  a  cray  with  sweet  wines,  dates  and  other 
goods  and  merchandise  within  the  port  of  Sandwich  to  take  to  the  city  of 
London,  certain  pirates  called  Litell  Peryn  of  Sandwich,  Pratte  of 
Wynchelsee,  and  Fagge  of  Whytby,  with  others,  seized  and  despoiled  the 
cray  and  goods  within  the  liver  Thames  and  carried  them  off  to  unknown 
parts,  and  to  arrest  and  imprison  the  offenders  and  cause  restitution  to  be 
made.  By  p,s. 

The  like  to  John  Howard,  knight,  William  Pyrton,  knight,  Laurence 
Reynford,  knight,  and  Thomas  Osbern,  one  of  the  king's  Serjeants  at  arms. 

By  p.8. 

Membrane  Ibd. 

Sept.  26.         Commission  to  Thomas  Charleton,  knight,  John  Horde,  James  Audesley, 
Reading.      Stephen  Clyfford,  Richard  Curteys,  John  Hert  and  Thomas  Draper  to 
arrest  Thomas  Porter  and  bring  him  before  the  king  in  Chancery. 

Sept.  26.         Commission   to  William   Hasty nges   of  Hastynges,   knight,   master  or 

Beading.      occupier  of  the  king's  coinage  within  the  Tower  of  London,  and  his  deputies 

to  take  sculptors,  goldsmiths,  smiths,  workmen  or  other  artificers  for  the 

coinage  or  working  (tf  all  irons  and  instruments  for  the  king's  coinage  of 

gold  and  silver  within  the  Tower  of  London. 


348 


CALENDAS  OF  PATENT  BOLLS. 


1464. 

June  4. 
York. 


June  11. 
York. 


Membranb  \Qd. 

Commission  to  William  Bowjs,  knight,  Roger  Thornton,  esquire,  Robert 
Nevill,  esquire,  William  Bradford,  Robert  Fulberj,  John  Swynbom  and 
the  sheriffs  of  the  county  of  Northumberland  and  the  town  of  Newcastle- 
on-Tyne,  to  enquire  what  lands  and  tenements  Henry  Percy,  late  earl  of 
Northumberland,  who  has  forfeited  to  the  king,  held  within  the  saj^d  county 
and  town  on  the  day  of  his  death  and  by  what  service,  how  much  they  are 
worth,  on  what  day  he  died,  who  is  his  next  heir,  and  who  has  occupied 
them  since  his  death. 

The  like  to  Alan  Budde,  mayor  of  Newcastle  on  Tyne,  R<^er  Thornton, 
Robert  Folbery,  William  Rothum  and  the  said  sheriffs  of  Northumberland 
and  Newcastle  on  Tyne,  touching  the  lands  held  by  the  said  earl  in  Bycar, 
CO.  Northumberland. 

Commission  to  the  king's  kinsman  John,  duke  of  Norfolk,  John  Howard, 
knight,  John  Wyngfeld,  knight,  William  Jenne,  John  Sulyard,  James 
Hoberd,  Richard  Fellawe,  Thomas  Higham  the  younger  and  ^e  sheriff  of 
Norfolk  and  Suffolk,  to  enquire  into  certain  treasons,  insurrections,  rebel- 
lions, congregations  and  unlawful  assemblies  within  those  counties  and  to 
arrest  and  imprison  the  offenders. 


Julys 

Pontcfract. 


July  3. 
rontefract. 


July  8. 
PoDtefract. 


Mbmbranb  9d. 

Commission  to  Robert  Constable  and  John  Constable,  knights,  on  com- 
plaint by  Nicholas  Johnson,  merchant  of  Delf  in  Holland,  that  when  he  was 
sailing  at  sea  in  a  ship  freighted  with  goods  and  merchandise  certain 
pirates  came  upon  him  in  four  ships  of  England,  the  first  of  Scardeburgh, 
of  which  Stephen  Appilby  is.  master,,  the  secojid  of  Newe  Hithe,  of  which 
Richard  Kirkeby  is  master,  the  third  of  Holdemesse,  of  which  Richard 
Lame  is  master,  and  the  fourth  of  Flaynburgh,  of  which  Robert  Kirkeby 
is  master,  and  seized  and  carried  off  his  said  ship  of  Delf  with  his  goods 
and  merchandise,  contrary  to  the  form  of  the  truce  between  the  king  and 
his  kinsman,  the  duke  of  Burgundy,  to  arrest  and  imprison  the  said  Stephen, 
Richard,  Richard  and  Robert  and  the  other  pirates  their  accomplices  and 
to  seize  their  goods  and  to  cause  restitution  to  be  made  of  the  said  ship 
with  its  gear  and  the  said  goods.  By  K. 

Commission  to  Robert  Constable,  knight,  John  Constable,  knight, 
Edmund  Hastynges,  knight,  Ralph  Assheton,  knight,  Rklph  Crathom, 
knight,  Lionel  Percey,  knight,  John  Fereby,  escheator  in  the  county  of 
York,  Ralph  Gray,  esquire,  William  Willesthorp,  esquire,  John  Berwik  of 
Thornton,  Walter  Percey,  esquire,  Thomas  Wandesford,  esquire,  Thomas 
Oxenford  of  Pykeryng,  John  Forthe  the  elder,  John  Percey  of  Malton, 
Richard  Wetwang  of  Malton  and  William  Kyghley  of  Huton  to  enquire 
into  the  reported  transport  across  the  river  Tese  of  wools,  wool-fells, 
'  morlyng '  and  '  shorlvng '  of  the  growth  of  the  county  of  York  and  other 
adjacent  parts,' not  of  the  places  called  Richemond  Shire  and  Allerton 
Shire  J  contrary  to  the  act  in  Parliament  at  Westmin«>ter,  6  March, 
3  Edward  lY.  ordaining  that  after  Midsummer  then  following  na  person 
should  take  any  wools,  wool-fells,  *  morlyng '  or  *  shorlyng  *  of  the  growth 
of  any  country  or  county  south  of  the  Tese,  the  places  called  Richemond 
Sb  ire  and  Allerton  Shire  excepted,  across  the  Tese  to  the  north  under 
penalty  of  forfeiture  of  the  same,  and  to  seize  any  such  that  may  have  been 
bought  and  collected  for  transport  and  to  detain  the  &ame  until  the 
possessors  or  buyers  shall  have  found  security  for  the  observation  of  the 
said  act. 

Mbmbranb  Sd. 

Commission  to  the  king's  kinsman  John,  earl  of  Worcester,  and  Master 
John  Bothe,  the  king's  secretary,  and  Master  James  Goldwell,  dean  of 


4  EDWARD  IV.— Part  I. 


349 


1464. 


Aug.  7. 

Stamford. 


Mejnbrane  Sd — cont, 

Salisbury,  king's  clerks,  to  enquire  into  the  capture  of  a  certain  cartel  of 
Scotland  bj  certain  of  the  king's  subjects  at  sea,  as  variances  have  arisen 
between  Alexander,  duke  of  Albany,  and  Thomas,  bishop  of  Aberdeen,  and 
others  of  their  company  who  were  on  the  said  carvel  at  |the  time  of  its 
capture,  and  Robert  Spofford,  master  of  a  barge  called  la  Katerine  Du,ras 
and  others  of  the  king's  subjects,  the  captors  of  the  carvel. 

By  K.  by  word  of  mouth. 

Commission  to  Thomas  Ferrers,  knight,  Thomas  Erdyngton,  knight, 
John  Grevill,  knight,  John  MoUe  and  the  sheriff  of  Warwick  to  arrest 
Robert  Mountford  the  younger,  '-gentilman/  Thomas  Adnet  late  of  Berkes- 
well,  '  yoman,'  Thomas  Dar&et,  of  the  order  of  Friars  Preachers,  Ralph 
Hampton,  <  yoman,'  and  John  Hawe, '  yoman/  and  bring  them  before  the 
king  in  Chancery. 


Aug.  10. 
Stamford. 


Aug.  II. 
Stamford. 


1465. 

Feb.  28. 
Westminster. 

1464. 

Aug.  15* 
Penley. 


Membrane  7d. 

Commission  to  Roger  Thorneton,  esquire,  William  Ogle,  esquire,  John 
Wyddryngton,  esquirci  Robert  Folbury,  William  Loweson  and  the  sheriff 
of  Northumberland  to  enquire  what  lands  and  tenements  William  Tailboys, 
knight,  who  has  forfeited  to  the  king,  held  within  the  county  of  Northum- 
berland and  the  liberty  of  Riddesdale  on  the  day  of  his  death  and  by  what 
service,  how  much  they  are  worth,  on  what  day  he  died,  who  is  his  next 
heir,  and  who  has  occupied  them  since  his  death.; 

Commission  de  walliis  et  fossatis  to  Robert  Constable,  knight,  John 
Constable,  knight,  Robert  Hilliard,  John  Wenc^lagh,  Robert  Sheffeld  and 
William  Eland,  on  the  east  part  of  the  way  which  leads  from  Hesill  to 
Bayneton  and  from  Bayneton  to  Bridlyngton  and  thence  to  the  sea  and  so 
with  all  Holdemesse  and  other  places  on  the  east  and  south  of  the  said 
places  in  the  East  Riding  in  the  county  of  York. 

The  like  to  Robert  Constable,  knight,  John  Constable,  knight,  Walter 
Griffith,  knight,  Robert  Hillard,  John  Wenslagh,  Robert  Sheffeld  and 
William  Eland,  in  the  same  places. 

Commission  to  Thomas  Wyse,  ''esquire,  Oto'  Gilberd,  esquire,  Thomas 
Oille,  esquire,  and  John  Giffard  to  enquire  what  lands  and  tenements 
Baldwin  Fulford,  knight,  who  has  foi-feited  to  the  king,  held  within  tiie 
counties  of  Devon  and  Cornwall  on  the  day  of  his  death  and  by  what 
service,  how  much  they  are  worth,  on  what  day  he  died,  who  is  next  heir, 
and  who  hai3  occupied  them  since  his  death. 


Aug.  26. 
Woodstock. 


Membrane  5d. 

Commission  to  the  mayor  and  sheriff  of  the  town  of  Newcastle  on-Tyne, 
on  complaint  by  Henry  Nederhofe  and  Henry  Snellembergh,  merchants  of 
Dansk  in  Prussia,  that  certain  pirates  in  certain  ships  of  England  came 
upon  a  ship  called  Buythule  oi  Dansk,  of  which  Nicholas  Woegman  is 
master,  and  a  cray  of  Dansk,  of  which  the  said  Henry  Snellembergh  is 
master,  lately  laden  with  divers  goods  and  merchandise  at  Dansk  to  be 
taken  to  England,  at  sea  and  captured  them  and  took  them  to  the  port  of 
Newcastle  on  Tyne  contrary  to  the  statutes  of  the  realm  and  the  ancient 
ties  and  friendships  between  the  king  and  the  men  of  Hanse  Ahnain,  to 
seize  the  said  ship  and  cray  and  goods  and  merchandise  and  keep  them  in 
safe  custody. 


3oO  CALENDAR  OF  PATENT  ROLLS. 


1464,  Membrane  5d — cant. 

The  like  to  the  major  and  bailiffs  of  the  town  of  Scardeburgh,  co.  York, 
reading  Scardeburgh  for  Newcastle  on  Tyne. 

The  like  to  the  mayor  of  the  town  of  Biakenej,  Thomas  Androwe, 
Alexander  6yn,  Edmund  Thomam  and  Thomas  Clerk,  on  like  complaint 
by  Henry  Nederhofe,  merchant  of  Dansk  in  Prussia,  touching  a  hulk  of 
Dansk,  of  which  John  Segebote  is  master,  captured  and  taken  to  the  port 
of  Blakeney. 


351 


4  EDWARD  IV.— Paet  II. 


1454,  Membrane  32. 

'April  26.         Pardon  to  John  Thryske,  mayor  of  the  staple  of  Calais  and  one  of  the 
WestmiiiBter.   merchants  of  the  society  of  the  staple,  alias  John  Thryske,  merchant  of  the 
city  of  York,  of  all  offences,  trespasses,  misprisions,  contempts,  conceal- 
ments, deceptions,  fines,  forfeitures,  penalties,  amercements,  actions,  suits, 
executions,  demands  and  impeachments.  By  K. 

The  like  to  the  following : — 

William  Brasbrigge,  merchant  of  the  staple  of  Calais,  alias  William 
Brasebrygge  of  liOndon,  merchant,  ali€u  William  Bracebrigge. 

ByK. 

John  Marsshall,  merchant  of  the  staple  of  Calais,  alias  John  Marschally 
Marchall  or  Mersshall,  merchant  of  the  city  of  York.  By  K. 

John  Crosby  or  Crosseby  of  London,  *  grocer,'  merchant  of  the  staple  of 
Calais. 

William  Broun,  merchant  of  the  staple  of  Calais,  alias  William  Browne 
of  Staunford,  ^  marchaunt.'  By  K. 

John  Schnkburgh,  one  of  the  merchants  of  the  society  of  the  staple  of 
Calais,  alias  John  Shukburgh  of  London, '  marchaunt.*  By  K. 

John  Beede,  one  of  the  merchants  of  the  society  of  the  staple  of  Calais, 
alicu  John  Rede  of  Boston,  co.  Lincoln,  merchant.  By  K. 

William  Cawode,  one  of  the  merchants  of  the  society  of  the  staple  of 
Calais,  and  of  Boston,  co.  Lincoln,  merchant.  By  K. 

John  Walden,  citizen,  alderman  and  grocer  of  London,  denizen 
merchant,  and  merchant  of  the  staple  of  Calais. 

John  Croke,  ^  sentilman,'  citizen  of  London,  one  of  the  society  of  the 
merchants  of  the  staple  of  Calais,  and  denizen.  By  K. 

William  Chestre  or  Chester,  citizen  of  London,  one  of  the  merchants  of 
the  staple  of  Calais,  and  denizen.  By  K. 

William  Yorke  the  elder,  merchant  of  the  staple  of  Calais,  alias  late  of 
London, '  gentilman,'  alias  citizen  and  fishmonger  of  London,  alias 
late  of  Twyckenham,  co.  Middlesex, '  gentilman.'  By  K. 

Thomas  Lokton  of  Notyngham,  merchant  of  the  staple  of  Calais. 

By  K. 

John  Multon  of  Waunceford,  co.  Northampton,  merchant,  merchant  of 
the  staple  of  Calais. 

John  Swan  of  Hull  or  Kyngeston  on  Hull,  *  marchaunt,'  one  of  the 
merchants  of  the  staple  of  Calais.  By  K. 

John  Broune  of  Stamford,  co.  Lincoln,  *  marchant.'  By  K. 

John  Caldebeke,  citizen  and  grocer  of  London,  merchant  of  the  staple 
of  Calais,  late  one  of  the  sheriffs  of  the  oily  of  Lincoln,  Englishman. 

ByK. 

•John  Williamson,  citizen  and  merchant  of  Lincoln,  late  mayor  of 
Lincoln,  of  the  staple  of  Calais,  *  merchaunt.'  By  K. 

Richard  Cotes,  Cottys,  or  Cotys  of  Lincoln,  '  marchant,'  and  of  the 
staple  of  Cakus,  merchant.  By  K 


352 


CALENDAR  OF  PATENT  BOLLS. 


1464. 


Oct.  26. 
Wycombe. 


Oct.  26. 

Wycombe. 


Membrane  32 — cont. 

Robert  iQglissh,  Ynglypsh  or  Englyssh  of  Notyngham,  merchant,  and 
of  the  staple  of  Calais,  *  merchaunt.'  By  K. 

Thomas  Grantham  of  Lincoln,  merchant,  and  of  the  staple  of  Calais, 
'  merchant.'  By  K. 

John  Tate,  citizen^  «ld«rman  and  mercer  of  London,  merchant  of  the 
staple  of  Calais.  By  K. 

Richard  Bowell,  merchant  of  the  staple  of  Calais  and  citizen  and 
'  mercer '  of  London. 

Richard  Sely,  merchant  of  the  staple  of  Calais  and  citizen  and 
*•  felmonger  *  of  Loudon. 

Thomas  Stone,  or  Stonys,  one  of  the  merchants  of  the  society  of  the 
staple  of  Calais,  merchant,  burgess  and  mercer  of  the  town  of 
Shrewsbury. 

Mbmbrans  31. 

Grant  to  William  Hastynges,  knight,  king's  chamberlain,  of  the  honour, 
castle,  manor  and  lordship  of  Bevour,  Beauvoir,  Bealvoir,  or  Believer,  with 
the  park  there  and  its  members  of  Wollesthorp,  co.  Lincoln,  Barkeston, 
Plumgarth,  Redmyld  and  Hardeby,  co.  Leicester,  with  the  advowsons  of  the 
priory  of  Bevour  and  the  churches  of  Hardeby,  Wollesthorp  and  Redmyld,  a 
rent  called  '  castelward '  and  all  rights  and  appurtenances  pertaining  to  the 
said  honour  and  castle,  the  manor  of  Bottesford  or  Botelesford  with  the 
hamlets  of  Normanton  and  Esthorp  and  the  advowson  of  the  church  of 
Bottesford,  co.  Leicester,  the  manor  of  Hadyngton,  co.  Lincoln,  and  all  lands, 
rents  and  services  in  Bevour,  Wollesthorp,  Barkeston,  Plumgarth,  Redmyld, 
Hardeby,  Bottesford,  Normanton,  Esthorp  and  Hadyngton  late  of  Thomas, 
late  lord  Roos,  and  in  the  king's  hands  by  reason  of  an  act  of  forfeiture  in 
Parliament  at  Westminster,  4  November,  1  Edward  IV.  and  the  manor  and 
lordship  of  Welbom,  a  moiety  of  the  manor  of  Byker,  and  the  manors  of 
Birthorp,  Repyngale,  Sapirton  and  Awethorp,  co.  Lincoln,  the  manor  of 
Edmynton,  co.  Middlesex,  called '  Wilbyes,'  and  all  lands,  rents  and  services 
in  Welbom,  Byker,  Birthorp,  Repyngehale,  Sapirton,  Awethorp  and 
Edmynton  and  in  Totenham,  co.  Middlesex,  late  of  William  Beaumont, 
knight,  late  viscount  Beaumont,  and  in  the  king's  hands  as  above,  to  hold 
the  same  with  knights'  fees,  advowsons,  wards,  marriages,  reliefs,  escheats, 
courts  leet,  views  of  frank-pledge,  parks,  warrens,  chaces,  fairs,  markets, 
waters,  fisheries  and  all  other' profits,  liberties  and  franchises  for  the  life  of 
£!atharine,  duchess  of  Norfolk,  by  feuedty,  with  all  farms,  rents,  profits  and 
revenues  from  4  March,  1  Edward  IV.  By  K. 

Appointment  for  life  of  William  Herbert,  king's  knight,  lord  Herbert, 
whom  the  king  has  raised  to  the  rank  of  baron,  as  chief  justice  of  the 
county  of  Merionnyth  in  North  Wales,  with  full  power  and  authority  as 
any  other  jui^ce  of  North  Wales  has,  and  grant  tJiat  during  his  life  the 
said  county  shall  be  distinct  and  separate  and  exempt  from  the  jurisdiction 
of  the  justices  of  Nortli  Wales.  Qrant  to  him  also  of  the  offices  of 
chamberlain  qf  the  county  and  general  rooeiver  of  all  the  king's  farms, 
rents,  issues  and  profits  therein  and  the  office  of  constable  of  tiie  king's 
castle  of  Hardelagh  in  the  said  county  for  life,  with  full  power  of  removing 
and  appointing  all  stewards,  sheriffs,  escheators,  coroners,  bailiffs  itinerant^ 
foresters,  reeves,  ringilds,  bailiffs  and  other  officers  and  ministers  within 
the  said  county  at  the  accustomed  fees.  And  he  shall  receive  20/.  yearly 
for  the  office  of  justice,  10/.  yearly  for  the  offices  of  chamberlain  and 
receiver,  26/.  13^.  \d,  yearly  for  (he  office  of  constable  and  4dL  daily  for  the 
wages  of  each  of  24  soldiers  staying  under  him  on  the  safe  custody  of  the 
said  castle  from  the  issues  of  the  said  county,  and  all  other  profits  pertaining 
to  the  office  of  constable.  By  K. 


4  EDWARD  IV.— PAirr  II. 


353 


Oct.  27. 

Wycombe. 


1464.  Membrane  31 — cont. 

Oct.  31.  Mandate  to  the  eaclieator  in  the  county  of  York  for  the  restitution  of 

Wycombe,  the  temporalities  of  the  abbey  of  8t.  Mary  without  the  walls  of  the  city  of 
York  to  Thomas  Bothe,  monk  of  the  monastery,  whose  election  as  abbot 
the  dean  and  chapter  of  the  metropolitan  church  of  York,  keepers  of  the 
spirituality  of  the  archbishopric  during  the  voidance  of  the  see,  have 
confirmed,  and  whose  fealty  the  king  has  ordered  to  be  taken  by  his 
kinsman  John,  earl  of  Northumberland.  By  K« 

The  like  to  the  escheators  in  the  counties  named : — 
Lincoln. 
Cambridge. 
Cumberland. 
Norfolk  and  Suffolk. 
Northampton. 
Westmoreland. 

The  like  to  — Gylyot,  mayor  of  the  city  of  York,  and  escheator  in  that 
city. 

Mandate  to  the  chancellor  in  the  county  palatine  of  Lancaster  to  issue  a 
like  mandate  under  the  great  seal  of  the  county  to  the  escheator  in  the 
county. 

Writ  de  intendendo  in  pursuance  to  the  tenants.  By  K. 

Mandate  to  the  escheator  in  the  county  of  Norfolk  for  the  restitution  of 
the  temporalities  of  the  abbey  {sic)  of  Bernwell  to  John  Whaddon,  canon 
of  the  house,  whose  election  as  prior  W.  bishop  of  Ely  has  confirmed, 
and  whose  fealty  the  king  has  ordered  to  be  taken  by  R.  bishop  of 
Carlisle. 

The  like  to  the  escheator  in  the  counties  of  Cambridge  and  Huntingdon. 

The  like  to  Matthew  Philippes,  mayor  of  the  city  of  London  and  escheator 
in  that  city. 

Writ  de  intendendo  in  pursuance  to  the  tenants. 

Inspeanmus  and  confirmation  to  the  prior  and  convent  of  Bernewell  of 
letters  patent  dated  12  May,  13  Edward  I.  inspecting  and  confirming  a 
chirograph  made  between  the  prior  ai](d  convent  and  Gilbert  Fecche,  dated 
at  Bernewell,  1256,  on  the  first  Sunday  of  Advent.  [MonasticonJ] 

For  ^  mark  paid  in  the  hanaper. 

Presentation  of  John  Deve,  parson  of  the  parish  church  of  Iwerst,  in  the 
diocese  of  Chichester,  to  the  vicarage  of  the  parish  church  of  Tentwarden, 
in  the  diocese  of  Canterbury,  on  an  exchange  of  benefices  with  John 
Henton. 

Grant  for  life,  from  Michaelmas  last,  to  the  king's  knight  William,  lord  of 
Hastynges,  king's  chamberlain,  of  the  honours  of  Peverell,  Boulogne  and 
Hagenes  with  their  membera  and  appurtenances  in  the  counties  of 
Buckingham,  Northampton  and  Leicester  and  the  castle  and  honour  of 
Huntingdon  with  its  members  and  appurtenances  in  the  counties  of 
Huntingdon,  Cambridge,  Bedford,  Buckingham  and  Northampton,  late 
of  John  Hastynges,  late  earl  of  Pembroke,  with  courts  leet,  rents,  views  of 
frank-pledge,  liberties  and  other  profits,  rendering  yearly  at  the  Exchequer 
8  marks  20d.  and  20d>  more  as  increment.  By  p.s. 

Nov.  3.  Appointment,  during  pleasure,   of  John  Austyn  as  controller  of  the 

Westmlniter.  great  and  petty  custom,  the  subsidy  of  wools,  hides  and  wool-fells  and  the 
subsidy  of  the  3s,  in  the  tun  and  the  I2d.  in  the  pound  in  the  port  of 
Sandwich  and  ports  and  places  adjacent,  receiving  the  accustomed  fees, 
provided  that  he  execute  the  ofiice  in  person,  with  the  custody  of  one  part 
of  the  coket  seal.  Bj  bill  of  treasurer. 

ti    8C914.  z 


Aug.  1. 
Wycombe. 


Nov.  10. 
Wycombe. 


Nov.  9. 
Wycombe. 


354 


CALENDAR  OF  PATENT  ROLLS. 


1464. 

Oct  26. 

Wycombe. 


Oct.  25. 

Wycombe. 


Membrane  30. 

Grant  to  Williiiin  Hastjnges,  king's  knight  and  chamberlain,  whom  the 
king  has  lately  raised  to  the  rank  of  a  baron,  and  his  heirs,  for  his  good 
service  against  Henry  VI.  Jasper,  earl  of  Pembroke,  James,  earl  of  Wiltshire, 
and  other  rebels,  of  the  castle,  manor  and  lordship  of  Folkyngham  with  its 
members  in  the  county  of  Lincoln,  the  manors  and  lordships  of  Lavyngton 
and  Aslakby  in  the  same  county,  the  manor  and  lordship  of  Lougheburgh, 
the  manor  of  Whityngton  and  the  manor  and  lordship  of  Shepeshed,  co. 
Leicester,  late  of  William  Beaumont,  knight,  late  viscount  Beaumont,  all 
the  pourparty  of  the  latter  of  the  honour  called  *  Wynchestre  Fee '  in  the 
counties  of  Leicester  and  Warwick,  all  his  lands,  rents,  reversions,  services 
and    possessions    in    folkyngham,    Lavyngton,    Aslakby,    Loughebui^h, 
Whityngton  and  Shepeshed  and  in  Barowe  and  Querndon,  co  Leicester, 
and  the  lidvowsons  of  the  churches  of  Walton  on  le  Wold  and  Cosyngton, 
CO.  Leicester,  in  the  king's  hands  by  reason  of  an  act  of  forfeiture  in 
Parliament  at  Westminster,  4  November,  1  Edward  rV»,  a  tenement  called 
'  le  Newe  Inne '  in  the  parish  of  St.  Benedict  in  Tamystrete,  London, 
otherwise  called  '  Beaumont  Inne '  in  the  parish  of  St.  Benedict  in  the 
ward  of  Baynardescastell,  London,  the  manor  and  lordship  of  Ayssheby 
de  la  Zouch,  co.  Leicester,  late  of  James,  late  earl  of  Wiltshire,  and  all  lands, 
rents,  reversions,  services  and  possessions  in  the  county  of   Leicester  late 
of  the  said  earl,  in  the  king's  hands  as  above,  with  all  profits  from  4  March 
1  Edward  lY.,  and  the  reversion,  lately  l>elonging  to  the  said  William 
Beaumont,  of  the  manor  and  lordship  of  Beaumaner,  the  manor  and  lordship 
of  Whitwik  with  its  members,  and  the  manors  and  lordships  of  Rotby, 
Bochaston,  Neuton,  Hokelscote,  Donyngton  and  Merkefeld,  co.  Leicester, 
on  the  death    of    Katharine,    duchess    of   Norfolk,    with    knights'    fees, 
advowsons,  wards,  marriages,  reliefs,  escheats,  courts  leet,  views  of  frank- 
pledge, parks,  warrens,  chaces,  &irs,    markets,  waters,  fisheries  and  all 
profits.     Grant  also  to  the  said  William  Hasteynges,  and  Katharine  his 
wife,  daughter  of  the  king's  uncle  Richard,  late  earl  of  Salisbury,  and  the 
heirs  male  of  his  body  of  the  manor  and  lordship  of  Bolton  Percy,  co.  York, 
late  of  the  said  William  Beaumont,  and  all  the  lands,  rents  and  services  of 
the  latter  in  Bolton  aforesaid,  the  manors  and  lordships  of  Stokedawbeneyand 
Sutton  with  the  advowson  of  the  church  of  Stokedawbeney,  co.  Northampton, 
late  of  Thomas,  late  lord  Roos,  and  all  his  lands,  rents  and  services  in 
Stokedawbeney,  Sutton,  Wilbaston  and  Assheley,  co.  Northampton,  in  the 
king's  hands  as  above,  the  reversion,  lately  belonging  to  the  said  William 
Beaumont,  of  the  manor  and  lordship  of  Hekyngton,  co.  Lincoln,  on  the 
death  of  Katharine,  duchess  of  Norfolk,  and  also  the  manors  of  Plumpton 
and   Barkham  or  Bercompe  and  the  manor  of  Birlyng,  co.  Sussex,  the 
reversions  of  which  were  granted  to  William  Phelippes  and  Joan  his  wife 
by  letters  patent  dated  31  January,  16  Henry  YI.  and  10  May,  16  Henry  YI. 
and  which  are  now  in  the  king's  hands,  to  hold  by  homage  only  with  knights' 
fees,  advowsons,  courts,  liberties,  franchises,  waifs,  strays,  chattels  of  fugitives 
and  felons,  views  of  frank-pledge,  leets  and  all  that  pertains  to  view  of 
frank- pledge,  with  all  farms,  rents,  profits  and  revenues  from  4  March, 

I  Edward  lY.  with  remainder  to  the  heirs  male  of  the  body  of  Kathai'ine 
and  final  remainder  to  the  right  heirs  of  William.  By  K. 

Grant  to  the  king's  servitor  Peter  Curteys  and  Alice  Russell  and  their 
heirs  and  assigns  of  3  messuages,  6^  virgates  and  3  acres  of  land  and 

I I  acres  of  meadow  in  Donyngton  on  le  Heth,  3  tofts,  4  virgates  of  land, 
12  acres  of  meadow  and  2^.  rent  in  Raunston,  a  close  containing  300  acres 
of  land  called  '  Kynton  Waste '  in  the  parish  of  Whitwyk  and  a  close 
containing  200  acres  of  land  called  *  Tybbottes  Waste '  in  the  same  parish, 
late  of  Everard  Bigby,  in  the  counties  of  Leicester  and  Derby,  in  the 
king's  hands  by  his  forfeiture  by  reason  of  an  act  in  Parliament  at  West- 
minster, 4  November,  1  Edward  lY.  to  hold  by  fealty,  without  rendering 
any  account.  By  K. 


4  EDWARD  IV.— Part  IL 


S55 


1464. 

Oct.  28. 

Wycombe. 


Membrane  30 — cant. 

Grant  for  life  to  Elizabeth  Sutton  of  4d,  daily  from  4  March,  1  Edward 
IV.  from  the  farm  of  the  subsidy  and  ulnage  oi  cloths  within  the  town  of 
Bristol  and  the  liberty  of  the  same.  By  p.s. 


Aug.  28. 
Woodstock. 


Oct.  26. 
Wycombo. 


Oct.  28. 
Wycombe. 


Oct.  26. 

Wycombe. 

Oct.  29. 

Wycombe. 

Oct.  14. 

Wycombe. 


Mbmbranb  29. 

Confirmation  to  the  sovereigUy  provost,  bailiffs,  bui^esses  and  com- 
monalty of  the  town  of  Galway  in  Connaught  in  Ireland,  which  is  the 
key  of  those  parts,  of  letters  patent  dated  26  January,  19  Richard  II. 
granting  to  them  divers  liberties,  and  letters  patent  dated  8  November, 
19  Bichard  II.  granting  to  them  murage  and  pavage  on  goods  brought  for 
sale  into  or  out  of  the  town,  and  also  letters  patent  dated  12  March, 
[3  Henry  lY.]  confirming  the  above ;  and  release  to  them  of  all  actions  and 
demands,  grant  to  them  of  all  the  said  customs  and  grant  that  no  one  except 
the  lieutenant  or  chancellor  of  Ireland  shall  enter  the  town  unless  by  their 
licence,  assent  and  supervision.  By  K.  and  for  40^.  paid  in  the  hanaper. 

Commission  to  \yalter  Devereux  of  Ferrers,  knight,  William  Herbert  of 
Herbert,  knight,  Bichard  Herbert  and  John  Milewater  and  Trahayron  ap 
Jevan  ap  M't,  esquires,  to  receive  into  the  king's  allegiance  all  rebels  within 
the  king's  castle  of  Hardelagh  and  county  of  Merionnyth  in  North  Wales  on 
the  day  on  which  they  shall  deliver  up  the  same  to  them,  aU  sons  of  Edmund, 
sometime  duke  of  Somerset,  and  all  persons  of  the  rank  of  baron  excepted, 
and  to  promise  pardon  and  letters  of  pardon  under  the  Great  Seal.      By  K. 

Revocation  of  protection,  with  clause  volumus^  for  one  year,  granted 
15  October  by  letters  patent  to  William  Laurens,  ^wolman,'  cUias 
William  Laurence,  *  wollepakker,'  going  on  the  king's  service  in  the  com- 
pany of  John  Wode,  esquire,  victualler  of  the  town  and  marches  of  Calais, 
on  the  safe  custody  and  victualling  of  the  same,  because  he  delays  in 
London,  as  appears  by  certificate  of  the  sheriffs. 

Grant  for  life  to  the  king's  servitor  Thomas  Dobeney  of  the  office  of 
bailiff  of  the  river  Thames  between  Oxford  and  Stanes,  witii  the  accustomed 
fees.  By  K. 

Greneral  pardon  to  Thomas  Purssell  of  London, '  bruer,'  for  all  offences 
committed  by  him  before  14  June,  3  Edward  lY.  and  aU  escapes  of  felons 
before  that  date,  and  all  consequent  fines  and  amercements.  By  p.s. 

Pardon  to  James  Godde  of  Feversham,  co.  Kent,  *  plummer,'  for  all 
murders,  felonies  and  forfeitures  committed  by  him  from  8  July  last  to 
8  August  then  following.  By  p.8. 


Mbmbranb  28. 

March  21.  Orant  to  Thomas,  archbishop  of  Canterbury,  and  George,  bishop  of  Exeter, 
Westminster,  the  king's  kinsman,  and  Joan,  the  wife  of  William  Beaumont,  knight,  late  lord 
Beaumont,  and  daughter  of  Humphrey,  late  duke  of  Buckingham,  and  the 
heirs  of  her  body  of  the  nianors  and  lordships  of  Stowe  Bardolf,  Roughton, 
Fareswell,  Whymbergh,  Mateshall,  Erpyngham,  Wykmere,  Canteley,  Strom- 
peshawe,  Castre  Bardolf,  co.  Norfolk,  Ilketshall,  Denyngton,  Bromdyssh, 
Cretyngham  and  Clopton,  co.  Suffolk,  Whatton  at  Stone,  co.  Hertford, 
Halton,  CO.  Oxford,  Wilbram,  co.  Cambridge,  Kyskington,  Dygby,  West- 
burgh  and  Cathorp,  co.  Lincoln,  and  all  other  lands,  tenements,  rents,  rever- 
sions, services,  knights'  fees,  advowsons,  courts  leet,  hundreds,  wapentakes, 
views  of  frank-pledge,  parks,  chaces,  warrens,  fairs,  markets,  liberties  and 
franchises  pertaining  or  belonging  to  the  same  late  of  Thomas,  late  lord 
Bardolf,  or  William  Philippes,  late  lord  Bardolf,  in  the  king's  hands  by 
vigour  of  an  act  of  forfeiture  in  Parliament  at  Westminster,  4  !N'ovember, 

z  2 


356  CALENDAR  OF  PATENT  ROLLS. 


1461.  Membrane  28 — cont. 

1  Edward  IV.  against  the  said  William  Beaumont  or  otherwise  by  his 
forfeiture,  the  manors  and  lordships  of  Plump  ton,  Birlyng  and  Bercombe, 
CO.  Sussex,  and  an  inn  in  London  with  buildings  and  appurtenances  near 
Pawleswharf  excepted,  to  hold  the  same  to  the  use  and  profit  of  herself  and 
her  said  heirs  with  the  issues  and  profits  from  the  said  4  November,  with 
remainder  to  the  said  William  Beaumont,  and  the  heirs  of  his  body ;  in  lieu 
of  a  like  grant  to  the  same  bj  letters  patent  dated  5  March,  2  Edward  lY. 
sunken dered  and  cancelled  because  invalid.  By  K. 

Nov.  21.  Grant  to  the  king's  servant  Thomas  Colt  and  the  heirs  of  his  body,  for 
Westminster,  his  good  service  to  the  king  and  his  father  Richard,  late  duke  of  York,  of 
the  manor  or  lordship  of  Chyngford,  co,  Essex,  lately  occupied  to  the  use  of 
Thomas,  late  lord  of  Roos,  deceased,  the  manor  of  Acton,  co.  Suffolk, 
lately  occupied  to  the  use  of  James,  late  earl  of  Wilts,  deceased,  and  the 
reveraion  of  the  manors  of  Parkehall  alias  Graynesparke,  Hemnales  and 
Madeles  in  Theydon  Garnon,  co.  Essex,  and  100  acres  of  land,  50  acres 
of  pasture,  12  acres  of  meadow  and  20  acres  of  wood  in  Theydon  Garnon 
on  the  death  of  Margaret,  duchess  of  Somerset,  late  the  wife  of  Leo, 
lord  of  Welles,  with  knights'  fees  and  advowsons  ;  and  release  to  him  of  all 
debts,  accounts  and  actions  for  the  occupation  or  receipt  of  the  issues  and 
profits  of  the  same.  By  p.s. 

Nov.  9.  Grant  to  the  king's  servitor  Nicholas  Harpisfeld,  esquire,  and  the  heirs 

Wycombe,  male  of  his  body,  for  his  good  service  to  the  king  and  his  father  Richard, 
late  duke  of  York,  in  England  and  Ireland,  of  a  moiety  of  the  manor  of 
Gaddesbury  or  Cattesbury  in  Braughing,  co.  Hertford,  and  a  tenement  in 
Westmyll  pertaining  to  the  said  manor  called  *  Maistrcs,'  the  manor  of 
Uphall  in  Braughing  and  100  acres  of  land,  40  acres  of  pasture,  6  acres  of 
meadow  and  2  acres  of  wood  pertaining  to  the  said  manor,  in  the  king's 
hands  by  reason  of  the  forfeiture  of  John  Joskyn  late  of  Braughing,  esquire, 
and  by  force  of  an  act  of  forfeiture  in  Parliament  at  Westminster, 
4  November,  1  Edward  IV.  and  a  messuage  called  *  le  Belle  in  le  Hope,' 
in  the  parish  of  St.  Mary,  Stronde,  co.  Middlesex,  with  two  cottages 
adjoining,  a  messuage  or  house  in  the  parish  of  St.  Clement  Danes  without 
the  Bar  of  the  New  I'emple,  London,  and  a  messuage  or  tenement  in 
Walbroke  in  the  city  of  London,  late  of  Richai'd  Stucley  late  of  Lambhith, 
CO,  Surrey,  esquire,  in  the  king's  hands  by  reason  of  his  forfeiture  and  by 
force  of  the  said  act,  to  hold  the  same  from  1  July  last,  rendering  to  the 
king  a  red  rose  at  midsummer,  and  all  issues,  rents  and  other  profits  from 
the  said  4  November ;  nnd  release  to  him  of  all  actions,  debts  and  accounts 
for  the  receipt  of  the  said  issues  and  the  occupation  of  the  premises. 

By  p.8, 

Nov.  24.  Licence  for  the  alienation  in  mortmain  by  Margaret  Thurland  of  the 

Westminster,  town  of  Boston,  widow,  to  the  aldermen,  brethren  aud  sisters  of  the  guild 
of  Corpus  Chiisti  in  the  parish  of  the  said  town  of  a  yearly  rent  of  60*. 
from  a  grange  called  *  Hermitorie '  or  *  Hermtre '  within  the  lordship  of 
Weldemore,  co.  Lincoln,  which  she  holds  to  herself,  her  heirs  and  assigns 
of  the  grant  of  the  abbot  and  convent  of  the  monastery  of  St,  Mary, 
Kirkest^e,  co,  Lincoln,  by  charter  of  the  said  abbot  and  convent  with  a 
clause  of  distraint.  By  p.s.  and  for  10/.  paid  in  the  hanaper. 

Nov.  24.         Grant,  during  good  behaviour,  to  Thomas  Blount,  king's  esquire,  of  the 

Westminster,  office  of  treasurer  of  the  town  of  Calais  and   the  marches  there,  with  all 

accustomed  fees  and  profits,  in  the  same  manner  as  Walter  Blount,  knight, 

who  lately  held  the  office  by  letters    patent,  surrendered,  or  any  other 

occupant  of  the  same.  By  p.s« 

Appointment,  during  pleasure,  of  the  king's  servitor  Walter  Blount, 
knight,  as  treasurer  of  England,  with  the  accustomed  fees  and  liberties,  in 
the  same  manner  as  the  king's  kinsman  John,  earl  of  Woi*cester,  late 
treasurer,  or  any  other.  By  p.s. 


4  EDWARD  IV.— Part  II. 


357 


1464.  Membrane  28 — cant, 

Nov.  22.  Grant  for  life  to  John  Thriske  of  York,  merchant,  and  JoLl  Fereby, 
Westminster,  yeoman  of  the  crown,  of  the  custody  of  the  king's  stank  or  water  of  Fosse 
by  York,  co.  York,  with  all  profits  as  in  the  time  of  Edward  III.  and 
Hichard  II.  receiving  the  accustomed  fees  from  the  issues  of  the  county  of 
York,  in  lieu  of  a  like  grant  of  the  same  to  A  lured  Cornburgh  and  John 
Fereby,  yeoman  of  the  crown,  by  letters  patent  dated  1  February,  1 
Edward  IV.  surrendered.  By  K. 


Oct.  9. 

Wycombe. 


Oct.  3. 

Iteadiog. 


Oct.  10. 

Wycombe. 

Oct.  11. 
Wycombe. 

Sept.  30. 
Beading. 


Oct.  1. 

licadiug. 


Oct.  9. 
Wycombe. 

Oct.  15. 
Wycombe. 

Aug.  26. 
Woodstock. 


Membrane  27. 

Grant  for  life  to  Richard  Besege  and  John  Morten,  keepers  of  the  king's 
park  of  Beskewode,  in  recompense  of  the  losses  they  have  sustained  in  the 
king's  service,  of  2d,  daily  each  from  tlie  serjeanty  of  the  counties  of 
Nottingham  and  Derby  at  the  hands  of  the  sheriff,  provided  that  they 
each  pay  ^d.  daily  for  an  allowance  {exhibitone)  of  a  paliser  there.     By  K. 

Mandate  in  pursuance  to  the  said  sheriff. 

Grant  to  Master  Hugh  Alcok,  dean  of  the  cathedral  of  Bangor,  and 
Master  William  Conwey,  canon  of  the  cathedral,  of  the  custody  of  the 
temporalities  of  the  bishopric  of  Bangor,  in  the  king's  hands  by  the  death 
of  James,  late  bishop.     \^Fccdera,']  By  p.s. 

Presentation  of  William  Bocher,  chaplain,  to  the  parish  church  of  Pad- 
worth,  in  the  diocese  of  Salisbury. 

Presentation  of  Roger  Kyrnarth  to  the  parish  church  of  Llan  Aber, 
in  the  diocese  of  Bangor,  void  by  the  resignation  of  Thomas  Aber,  late 
parson. 

Licence  for  W.  the  abbot  and  the  convent  of  the  monastery  of  St 
Mary,  Bordesley,  co.  Worcester,  to  approve  a  .waste  called  *  Lyndenwode  * 
in  that  county  of  which  the  abbot  is  seised  in  his  demesne  as  of  fee 
by  right  of  the  monastery,  lying  without  the  forest  of  Fekenh^^m  and 
within  the  purlieu  of  the  forest,  and  extending  from  a  place  called 
*  Foxenly debate,'  to  the  south  to  Hedley  Crosse  adjoining  le  Riggewey  on 
the  south  and  thence  to  the  cast  by  the  bounds  between  the  counties  of 
Warwick  and  Worcester  to  the  township  of  le  Redyche,  and  by  the  middle 
of  the  same  to  the  north  to  Byffelde  Haloyate  and  thence  to  the  west  by 
the  dyke  called  *  le  Sulyon '  and  the  dyke  of  Bridloymore  and  the  dyke  of 
the  wood  of  Bacheley  to  Foxenlydeyate,  and  to  enclose  it  with  hedges  and 
ditches  and  to  hold  it  for  a  several  close ;  and  release  to  them  of  all  common 
pasture  and  all  right  in  the  same ;  that  they  may  pra^  for  the  good  estate 
of  the  king  and  for  his  soul  after  death  and  th<^  souls  of  his  father  and 
progenitors.  By  p.s. 

Grant  to  John  Smyth,  yeoman  of  the  king's  privy  pantry,  and  the  heirs 
male  of  his  body,  for  his  good  service  to  the  king's  father  and  the  king, 
of  a  moiety  of  the  manor  of  le  Warde,  co.  Dublin,  in  Ireland,  with  all 
messuages,  lands,  rents,  and  services  belonging  to  the  said  moiety,  late  of 
Richard  Bemiyngbam  and  iu  the  king's  hands  by  his  rebellion  and  forfeiture, 
not  exceeding  the  yearly  value  of  10/.  By  p.s. 

Gnmt  to  Riclmrd  Welles  of  Willoughby,  knight,  of  all  goods  late  of  his 
father  Leo,  late  lord  of  Welles,  lately  forfeited  to  the  king  by  virtue  of 
an  act  in  Parliament  at  Westminster,  4  November,  1  Edward  IV.       By  K. 

Grant  to  R.  bishop  of  Salisbury,  Master  John  Bothe  and  Hugh  Wynkeley 
of  the  presentation  to  the  next  vacant  canonry  and  prebend  in  the  king's 
free  chapel  of  St.  Stephen  within  his  palace  of  Westminster.  By  K. 

Grant  for  life  to  the  king's  servitor  John  Wode,  esquire,  of  the  office 
of  porter  of  the  king's  casile  of  Newcastle  on  Tyne,  with  wages  of  2#. 
daily  from  the  issues  of  the  county  of  Northumberland,  in  lieu  of  a  like 


358 


CALENDAR  OP  PATENT  ROLLS. 


1464. 


July  5. 
Pontefract. 


Oct.  1 7. 

Wycombe. 


Oct.  18. 
Wycombe. 

Sept.  8. 
Penley. 

Oct.  10. 
Wycombe. 


14.65. 

Jan.  1. 

Westminster. 


1464. 

Oct.  30. 
Wycombe. 


Nov.  10. 
Wycombe. 


Nov.  11. 
Wycombe. 


Membrane  27— cotrf. 

grant  of  the  same  to  John  Hadelston,  knight,  by  letters  patent,  surrendered  ; 
and  also  of  the  ofiGLce  of  constable  of  the  castle  with  the  custody  of  the 
prison  within  it,  with  fees  of  10^.  yearly  from  the  issues  of  the  said  county. 

ByK. 

The  like  to  the  king's  servitor  Richard  (Garnet  of  the  office  of  Serjeant 
and  pavilioner  of  the  king's  tents  or  pavilions  within  the  reahn  from 
20  July,  1  Edward  IV.  receiving  1 2d.  daily  for  himself  and  4d.  daily  for 
a  groom  for  the  repair  of  the  tents  and  pavilions  from  the  farm  or  issues 
of  the  subsidy  and  ulnage  of  cloths  and  a  moiety  of  the  forfeiture  oi  the 
same  in  the  'town  and  suburbs  of  Bristol,  with  the  accustomed  vesture  of 
the  office  yearly  at  the  hands  of  the  keeper  of  the  great  wardrobe  and  all 
mansions,  houses,  rents,  liberties  and  other  easements ;  in  lieu  of  a  like 
grant  to  him  by  letters  patent  dated  20  July,  1  Edward  IV.  surrendered 
because  invalid.  By  K. 

The  like  to  the  king's  servitor  Oto  Amour  of  the  lands,  tenements,  rents, 
reversions  and  services  in  the  borough  of  Pole  and  the  towns  of  Corffe, 
Hebard  and  Goldcourt,  co.  Dorset,  to  the  yearly  value  of  10  marks,  in  the 
king's  hands  by  forfeiture  of  the  rebellion  of  Thomas  Fyndem,  knight, 
and  by  force  of  an  act  of  Parliament  at  Westminster,  4  November, 
1  Edward  IV.  provided  that  the  king's  officers  there  are  accountable  to  the 
king  for  the  surplusage.  By  p.s.  [1485.] 

The  like  to  Ralph  Ayssheton,  knight,  of  a  tun  of  wine  yearly  in  the  port 
of  Kyngeston  on  Hull  at  the  hands  or  the  chief  butler  of  England  or  his 
deputy  there.  By  p.8. 

Exemption  for  life  of  John,  bishop  of  Chichester,  on  account  of  his 
debility  and  old  age,  from  personal  attendance  in  council  or  Parliament, 
provided  that  he  appear  by  proctors.     [^Fcedera.']  By  p.s. 

Grant  for  life  to  the  king's  servitor  Thomas  Crofte,  esquire,  of  the 
office  of  sheriff  of  Merj'onneth  in  North  Wales,  receiving  the  accustomed 
fees  with  all  other  profits  and  rendering  a  reasonable  account  yearly  at 
the  Exchequer.  By  p.s. 

Presentation  of  Boger  Chesshyre,  chaplain,  to  the  parish  church  of 
Corwen,  in  the  diocese  of  St.  Asaph,  void  by  the  death  of  Benedict  ap 
Grono  ap  G-ruffith,  late  parson,  and  in  the  king's  gift  by  reason  of  the 
temporalities  of  the  bishopric  of  St.  Asaph  being  in  his  hands.  The  letters 
are  directed  to  Th.  archbishop  of  Canterbury.  By  p.s. 

Membrane  26. 

Grant  for  life  to  the  king's  servant  William  Strode  of  aU  the  demesne 
lands  of  the  king's  manor  of  Inglescombe,  the  pasture  of  the  park  of  the 
manor,  18  acres  of  land  called  '  lez  Hales '  within  the  manor,  all  the  under- 
wood of  the  manor  and  a  moiety  of  the  estrays  within  it  with  all  profits  and 
commodities,  rendering  yearly  10/.  for  the  land  and  pasture  and  46«.  %d, 
for  the  underwood,  as  is  accounted  in  the  account  of  William  Hastynges, 
knight,  lord  of  Hastynges,  receiver  general  of  the  duchy  of  Cornwall,  from 
the  issues  of  his  office  for  the  year  following  Michaelmas,  2  Edward  IV.  by 
the  account  of  Henry  Bussh,  bailiff  of  the  manor,  on  the  account  of  the 
said  William  Hastynges  delivered  at  the  Exchequer.  By  p.s. 

The  like  to  John  Coupuldyk,  esquire,  and  John  Coupuldik,  his  son,  of 
the  office  of  bailiff  of  the  town  of  Wynchelse  with  the  accustomed  fees,  in 
lieu  of  a  like  grant  of  the  same  to  the  said  John  Coupuldyk,  esquire,  by 
letters  patent  dated  10  July,  1  Edward  IV.  surrendered.  By  p.s. 

Grant  to  Humplirey  de  Stafford  of  Suthwik,  knight,  of  two  suits  of  vest- 
ments, with  all  furniture  for  an  altar  of  the  same  suits,  two  beds  of  silk,  the 
one  of  *  tawney '  colour  with  birds,  and  the  other  black.  fiYe  books  for  chapel 


4  EDWARD  IV.— Paht  II. 


359 


Nov.  14. 

Wycombe. 


Nov.  14. 
Wycombe. 

Nov.  14. 
Wycombe. 


Nov.  10. 
Wycombe. 


1464,  Membrane  2^ — cont. 

and  three  boml)ards,  late  of  Thomas  Courtenaj,  last  earl  of  Devon,  on 
4  March,  1  Edward  IV.  or  afterwards,  now  within  the  borough  or  hundred 
of  Tyverton,  co.  Devon,  and  in  the  king's  hands  by  reason  of  an  act  in 
Parliament  at  Westminster,  4  November,  1  Edward  IV.  By  K. 

Appointment  of  the  king's  kinsman  Richard,  earl  of  Warwick  and  Salis- 
bury, to  appear  in  the  king's  place  in  the  city  of  York  on  26  November 
next,  to  which  day  Parliament  is  prorogued,  and  to  adjourn  the   said 
Parliament  until  21  January  next  at  the  palace  of  Westminster.         By  p.s. 
The  like  of  the  following : — 
The  king's  kinsman  John,  earl  of  Northumberland. 
Ralph  Greystok  of  Graystok,  knight. 

Licence  for  the  prioress  and  convent  of  Wilton  to  elect  an  abbess  in  the 
place  of  Isabel  Lambard,  deceased.  By  p.s. 

Appointment,  during  pleasure,  of  Richard  Alberton  to  execute  the  office 
of  chief  butler  of  England  in  the  port  of  Bristol  and  ports  and  places 
adjacent  in  the  place  of  John  Wenlok  of  Wenlok,  knight,  chief  butler  of 
England,  who  is  engaged  on  certain  business  of  the  king. 

By  John  Wenlok,  chief  butler  of  England. 

Grant  for  life  to  Richard  Harecourt,  esquire,  of  the  office  of  parker  of 
the  king's  park  of  Cornbury,  co.  Oxford,  and  the  custody  of  the  park,  from 
14  May,  1  Edward  IV.  since  which  date  he  has  occupied  the  said  office, 
receiving  3ef.  daily  from  the  issues  of  the  king's  lordship  or  manor  of 
Wodestoke  and  the  hamlets  of  Wotton,  Hamburgh,  Stonesfeld  and  its  other 
members  and  the  hundred  of  Wotton,  in  lieu  of  a  like  grant  to  him  by 
letters  patent  dated  14  May,  1  Edward  IV.  surrendered  because  invalid. 

ByK. 

Mandate  in  pursuance  to  the  farmers,  receivers  and  other  occupiers  of 
the  said  lordship,  manor,  hamlets,  members  and  hundred. 

Grant  to  John  Stapelhill  and  his  heirs  and  assigns  of  all  messuages, 
lands,  rents,  reversions  and  services  in  Melhwyssh,  Fulford,  Lystenesdon, 
Furslegh,  Owelhole,  Wysdoms,  Westwaterland,  Ferantes,  Brokedou,  Dons- 
ford,  Crokkernwill,  Lampford,  Mersh  and  Belston  and  the  advowson  of  the 
church  of  Belston,  co.  Devon,  late  of  Baldwin  Fulford,  knight,  rebel, 
attainted  of  high  treason,  and  now  in  the  king's  hands,  and  all  the  issues  of 
the  same  from  the  death  of  the  sidd  Baldwin,  to  hold  by  fealty  without 
rendering  anything  to  the  king.  By  K. 

Grant  to  John  Asteley,  knight,  who  is  detained  in  the  hands  of  the  king's 
adversaries,  for  his  more  speedy  delivery,  of  500  marks  to  be  levied  by 
himself  or  his  deputy  from  all  forfeitures  pertaining  to  the  king  by  reason 
of  any  act  or  statute  by  authority  of  Parliament  within  the  realm,  provided 
that  this  grant  does  not  extend  to  any  lands,  tenements  or  rents  forfeited. 

ByK. 

Grant  to  the  king's  servitor  Thomas  Eyr,  one  of  the  clerks  of  the  king's 
chapel,  of  the  free  chapel  or  the  custody  of  the  free  chapel  or  hospital  in 
the  to¥ni  of  Hildeburgh  or  Hilbilwortb,  co.  Norfolk,  lately  founded  in 
honour  of  Jesus  Christ  and  St.  Mary  and  All  Saints,  now  void  by  the 
surrender  of  Richard  Bowyer,  late  master  or  warden.  By  p.8. 

Oct.  1.  Grant  to  John  Dynham,  esquire,  and  the  heirs  male  of  his  body  of  the 

Beading,  manors  of  Pole  or  Southpole,  Harleston,  Plymptre,  Sutton  Lucy  and  Cole- 
wyk  or  Colewill,  co.  Devon,  the  manors  (sic)  of  Mapertou  with  its  members 
of  Ha) ton  and  Clopton,  the  manors  of  Southcadbury  and  Wotton  Courtenay 
or  Worton  Courtenay,  with  the  advowsons  of  the  churches  of  Southcadbury 
and  Wotton  Courtenay,  co.  Somerset,  a  moiety  of  the  manor  of  Stoke 
Mu)ys,  CO.  Oxford,  and  all  lands,  rents,  services  and  possessions  in  Pole  or 
Southpole,    Harleston,    Plymptre,  Sutton    Lucy,    Colewyk    or    Colewill, 


Aug.  9« 
Stamford. 


Oct.  9. 

Wycombe. 


Nov.  17. 
Wycombe. 


360 


CALENDAR  OF  PATENT  ROLLS. 


1464. 


Nov.  11. 
Wycombe. 


Nov.  21. 
WestminBter. 

^ov.  27. 
WestmuiBter. 


Membrane  26 — eont, 

Maperton,  Halton,  Clopton,  Southcadbur}',  Wotton  Courtenay  or  Worton 
Courtenaj  and  Stoke  Muljs,  in  the  king's  hands  by  the  forfeiture  of 
Robert,  late  lord  Hungerford,  knight,  bj  reason  of  an  act  in  Parliament  at 
Westminster,  4  November,  1  Edward  IV.  with  knights'  fees,  advowsons, 
courts  leet,  views  of  fnink-pledge,  parks,  warrens,  chaces,  fairs,  markets 
and  all  other  profits,  liberties  and  franchises,  with  successive  remainders  to 
his  brothers  Charles  D3'nham,  esquire,  and  Roger  Djnham,  esquire^  and  the 
heirs  male  of  their  bodies^  By  p.s. 

Grant  for  life  to  Humphrey  de  Stafford  of  Suthwik,  knight,  of  the  custody 
of  the  forest  of  Dertmore,  the  manor  of  Lidford  with  the  borough  and  castle 
of  Lydford,  and  the  manor  of  Southteygne,  co.  Devon,  with  view  of  frank- 
pledge and  all  other  profits  and  appurtenances,  rendering  yearly  to  the  king 
100  marks  6«.  8(f.  and  100^.  of  increment  and  supporting  the  houses, 
enclosures,  buildings  and  all  other  charges,  the  repair  of  the  castle  and 
the  fees  and  annuities  from  the  forest,  castle,  borough  and  manors  excepted. 

By  K. 

Pardon  to  John  Constable,  knight,  late  sheriff  of  the  county  of  York,  of 
all  trespasses,  offences,  misprisions,  contempts  and  concealments,  and  all 
fiens,  amercements,  issues,  forfeitures,  debts,  accounts,  and  arrears.     By.K. 

Presentation  of  William  Savage  to  the  parish  church  of  St.  Pierre  in 
the  parts  of  Picardy*  The  letters  are  directed  to  Th.  archbishop  of 
Canterbury. 


Nov.  9. 
Wycombe. 


Nov.  10. 
Wycombe. 

Nov.  9. 
Wycombe. 

Oct.  9. 

Wycombe. 


Nov.  12. 
Wycombe. 

Nov.  9. 
Wycombe. 


MSMBRANB  25. 

Pardon  to  Thomas  Yaghan  of  London,  esquire,  keeper  of  the  great  ward- 
robe of  Henry  VI.  tenant  of  the  lands  late  of  Thomas  Broun,  knight, 
late  sheriff  of  Kent,,  from  the  first  half  of  the  year  38  Henry  VI.  one  of 
the  mainpernors  of  Jasper,  late  earl  of  Pembroke,  for  the  custody  of  tho 
manors  of  Cantrecelly,  Penkelley  Alisaund,  Retronne,  and  Llangot  with  their 
appurtenances  in  South  Wales,  of  all  trespasses  and  offences,  all  escapes  of 
felons,  chattels  of  felons,  fugitives  and  outlaws^  deodands,  wastes,  trespasses 
of  vert  and  venison,  grants,  alienations  and  perquisitions  of  land,  grants  and 
perquisitions  in  mortmain  without  licence,  entries  into  archbishoprics  and 
bishoprics  or  into  his  inheritance,  forfeited  penalties,  forfeited  securities  for 
peace,  thirds  of  prisoners  taken  in  war,  and  offences  against  the  statute  of 
Praemunire,  letters  and  bills  of  exemptions  excepted,  and  all  fines,  amerce- 
ments, issues,  debts,  accounts  and  arrears.  By  K. 

Grant  for  life  to  the  king's  servant  John  Fortescu,  esquire,  of  the  manor 
of  Banstede,  co.  Surrey,  with  the  park  and  warren  of  the  same,  from 
1  April,  3  Edward  lY .,  and  all  issues  from  that  date.  By  p.s. 

Pardon  to  George  Willerby  late  of  London,  '  goldesmyth,'  of  all  offences 
committed  by  him  contrary  to  the  statute  of  Henry  V.  at  Leicester  touching 
the  counterfeiting  and  falsification  of  the  money  of  England.  By  K. 

.Grant  to  the  king's  servant  Thomas  Oliver,  one  of  the  yeomen  of  the 
crown,  and  the  heirs  male  of  his  body  of  all  lands  and  rents  late  of  Robert 
Hiklyng,  rebel,  in  the  town  and  parish  of  Sutton,  co.  Nottingham,  or 
elsewhere,  in  the  king's  hands  by  his  forfeiture,  to  the  yearly  value  of  10 
marks.  By  K. 

General  panlon  to  Richard  Hardware  of  Broughton,  co.  Salop, '  yoman,* 
alias  Richard  Carter,  of  all  offences  committed  by  him  before  11  November. 

By  p.s. 

General  pardon  to  John  Whelpdale  late  of  Lichefeld,  co.  Stafford,  clerk. 

By  p.8. 


4  EDWARD  IV.-  Pabt  II.  361 


1464,  Membrane  26 — cont. 

Nov.  9.  Pardon  to  William  Kneveton,  son  and  heir  of  Geofirey  Eneveton,  late 

Wycombe,     deputy  of  John  Ardern,  clerk  of  the  works  of  Henry  VI.  of  all  debts, 

accounts  and  arrears  due  before  5  March,  I  Edward  IV.  and  all  consequent 

actions  and  demands.  By  p.s. 

Dec.  4.  Signification  to  W.  bishop  of  Ely  of  the  royal  assent  to  the  election 

Westminster,  of  Thomas  Wesebeche,  monk  of  the  monastery  of  Thorney,  as  abbot  of  that 

place.  By  p.s. 

Dec.  5.  Grant  for  life  to  Robert  Hyett    of    tlie  '  gaole '  of  the  king's  mines 

Westminster,   within  the  forest  of  Deane,  co.  Gloucester,  lately  held  and  occupied  by  one 

Thomas  Wodeward,  with  the  custody  of  the  king's  park  of  Wightmede  in 

the  said  forest,  with  all  accustomed  fees  from  the  issues  of  the  forest  at  the 

hands  of  the  receiver  there.  By  p.s. 

Dec.  5.  Signification  to  R.  bishop  of  Salisbury  of  the  royal    assent    to  the 

Westminster,  election  of  Edith  Borgh,  nun  of  thd  monastery  of  WiltDn,  as  abbess  of  that 

place.  By  p.s. 

March  8.         Appointment  for  life  of  John  Martyn  as  one  of  the  king's  serjeants-at- 

Westminster.  arms,  with  wages  of  I2d.  daily  from  the  farm  of  the  town  of  Kyngesthorpe, 

CO.  Northampton,  and  a  livery  of  the  suit  of  esquires  of  the  household 

yeai'ly  at  Christmas  at  the  great  wardrobe.  By  p.s. 

Mandate  in  pursuance  to  the  bailiffs,  farmers  or  other  occupiers  of  the 
said  town. 

Sept.  27.         Grant  for  life  to  William  Preston,  chaplain  of  the  king's  chantry  of  St. 

Beading.  Mary  within  his  manor  of  Wodestoke,  celebrating  divine  service  there  for 
the  good  estate  of  the  king,  of  10  marks  yearly  within  the  manor  from  the 
issues  of  the  same,  with  the  mansions  and  gardens  pertaining  to  the  chantry 
and  fuel  and  all  other  profits.  By  K. 

Nov.  29.  Grant  to  John  Pilkington,  one  of  the  esquires  of  the  body,  and  the 

Westminster,  heirs  male  of  his  body,  of  the  manor  of  Turnehamhall,  co.  York,  two  parts 
of  the  manor  of  Thorneton  in  Craven,  co.  York,  and  six  messuages^  200 
<acres  of  land,  10  acres  of  meadow  and  50  acres  of  pasture  in  Yolton,  co. 
York,  late  of  Thomas,  lord  Roos,  and  in  the  king's  hands  by  reason  of  an 
act  in  Parliament  at  Westminster,  4  November,  1  Edward  IV.  by  pretext 
of  which  act  the  said  Thomas  was  convicted  of  high  treason,  the  reversion 
of  the  third  part  of  the  said  manor  of  Thorneton  and  the  manor  of  Lynton 
on  Owse,  CO.  York,  belonging  to  the  king  as  above,  on  the  death  of  Marjory 
late  the  wife  of  John  Koos,  knight,  late  lord  Roos  :  also  of  the  manors  of 
Malteby  and  Hoton,  co.  York,  late  of  John,  late  lord  Clyfford,  in  the  king's 
hands  as  above,  the  manors  of  Grymesthorpe,  Aylcsthorpe  and  Southorpe, 
CO.  Lincoln,  with  their  members,  late  of  John,  viscount  Beaumont,  and  in 
the  king's  hands  by  the  forfeiture  of  William,  late  viscount  Beaumont,  his 
son  and  heir,  the  manor  of  Great  Hale  alias  Westhalle,  alias  Hole,  co. 
Lincoln,  late  of  Thomas  Claymond,  in  the  king's  Lands  as  above ;  the 
reversion  of  the  manor  of  Edenham,  co.  Lincoln,  which  would  have  come 
to  the  said  William,  viscount  Beaumont,  on  4  March,  1  Edward  IV.  on  the 
death  of  Katharine,  duchess  of  Norfolk,  and  an  inn  or  tenement  and  four 
shops  adjoining  it  in  the  parish  of  St.  Botolph  in  the  ward  of  Aldrichgatc, 
London,  which  Gilbert  Parre,  esquire,  lately  had  of  the  grant  of  Henry  VI. 
with  knights'  fees,  advowsons,  wards,  marriages,  warrens,  fairs,  markets 
and  all  other  profits,  liberties  and  franchises,  and  all  issues  from  the  said 
4  Mai'ch.  By  p.s. 

Mbmbranb  24. 

Dec.  7.  Appointment,  until  7  June,  of  Bichard  Sutton  to  provide  sea  fish  and 

Westminster,   fresh-water  fish  and  other  necessaries  for  the  office  of  buyer  of  the  household 

and  carriage  for  the  same.  By  bill  of  the  treasurer  of  the  household! 


862 


CALENDAR  OF  PATENT  BOLLS. 


1464. 

Nov.  8. 
Wycombe. 


Nov.  9. 
Wycombe. 


Nov.  8. 
WycoBibe. 


Dec.  4. 
Westminster. 


Membrane  24 — cont. 

Grant  to  the  king's  servitor  Richard  HaAtjnges,  esquire,  and  the  heirs  of 
his  body  of  the  manors  and  lordships  of  Overton  Quatremars,  Godebj, 
Cunston  and  Cotes  by  Lughborowe,  co.  Leicester,  with  the  advowsons  of 
the  churches  of  Overton  Quatermars,  Godeby  and  Cunston,  all  lands, 
meadows,  pastures,  rents,  reversions,  services  and  possessions  in  Overton 
Quatermars,  Godeby,  Cunston,  Cotes,  Overton  Saucy,  Osgatborp,  Thurges- 
ton,  Wertbyngton  and  Whitwik,  co.  Leicester,  a  messuage,  a  virgate  of  land 
and  3  acres  of  meadow  in  Hathern,  co.  Leicester,  and  a  messuage,  a  virgate 
of  land  and  2  acres  of  meadow  in  Iscley  Walton,  co.  Leicester,  late  of  John 
Beaumont,  esquire,  in  the  king's  hands  by  reason  of  an  act  of  forfeiture  in 
Parliament  at  Westminster,  4  November,  1  Edward  IV.  with  all  farms, 
profits  and  revenues  from  4  March,  1  Edward  IV.  and  the  reversion  on  the 
death  of  Elizabeth,  late  the  wife  of  the  said  John  Beaumont,  of  the  manors 
and  lordships  of  Little  Bond  on,  co.  Northampton  and  Wynterburne  Maare- 
ward,  CO.  Dorset,  with  the  advowson  of  the  church  of  the  latter  and  all 
lands,  rents,  sei-vices  and  possessions  in  Little  Boudon  and  Wjrnterbnme 
Maurewarde  which  she  holds  for  life,  with  knights'  fees,  advowsons,  wards, 
marriages,  reliefs,  escheats,  courts  leet,  views  of  frank-pledge,  parks, 
warrens,  chaces,  fairs,  markets,  waters,  fisheries  and  all  liberties  and  fran- 
chises. By  p.8. 

Grant  for  life  to  the  king's  brother  George,  duke  of  Clarence,  for  the 
better  maintenance  of  his  estate,  of  the  manors  and  lordships  of  Stoke  undre 
Hampton,  Melton  Faucomberge,  Stratton  on  le  Vosse,  Faryngton  Ghomey, 
Inglescombe,  Midsomer  Norton,  Wydecombe,  Welton,  Laverton,  a  moiety 
of  the  manors  and  lordships  of  Westharptreand  Shipton  Malet,co.  Somerset) 
the  manor  and  lordship  of  Cory  Malet,  co.  Somerset,  and  the  manor  and 
lordship  of  Byme,  co.  Dorset,  with  all  lands,  messuages,  meadows,  feedings, 
pastures,  woods,  waters,  stanks,  stews,  mills,  gardens,  dove-cotes,  rents, 
services,  reversions,  courts  leet,  offices,  views  of  frank-pledge,  escheats, 
knights'  fees,  advowsons,  wards,  marriages,  scutages,  reliefs,  hundreds, 
wapentakes,  fines,  amercements,  forfeitures,  fairs,  markets,  chaces,  parks, 
warrens,  fisheries,  wreck  of  sea,  waifs,  strays,  chattels  of  felons,  fugitives 
and  outlaws,  return  of  writs  and  executions  and  all  other  liberties  and  fran- 
chises, with  all  issues  from  Easter  last ;  and  grant  to  him  of  the  collation  to 
the  mastership  or  custody  of  the  hospital  or  college  of  St.  Katharine  by  the 
Tower,  London,  at  its  next  voidance.  By  K. 

Grant  to  Bichard  Gotle,  Robert  Henlakiden,  Bichard  Pe3mawnt  and 
Williain  Courthope  of  20  marks  due  to  the  king  from  Elizabeth  Fryer  of 
the  parish  of  Batheresden,  co.  Kent,  '  widowe  '  because  she  did  not  appear 
before  John  Gilford,  Robert  Martyn  and  Thomas  Marshall,  justices  of  the 
peace  in  the  county  of  Kent,  at  Canterbury  on  Tuesday  after  the  Close  of  Easter, 
4  Edward  IV.  nor  on  the  Wednesday  following  to  find  security  for  keeping 
the  peace,  and  also  of  10  marks  due  from  each  of  William  Steveday  of 
Canterbury, '  gentilman,'  and  John  Welk  of  Estwell,  co.  Kent,  *  husbondmian,' 
her  mainpernors.  By  p.s. 

Grant  for  life  to  Thomas  Erdyngton,  king's  knight,  and  Jocosa  his  wife 
of  the  manor  or  lordship  of  Bordesley,  co.  Warwick,  and  two  closes  con- 
taining 200  acres  of  land  in  the  same  called  '  le  Heybernez '  alias  ^  Mykell 
Hey '  and  *  Litell  Hey,'  late  of  James,  late  earl  of  Wiltshire,  and  in  the 
king's  hands  by  reason  of  an  act  of  forfeiture  in  Parliament  at  Westminster, 
4  November,  1  Edward  IV,  with  knights'  fees,  wards,  marriages,  reliefs, 
escheats,  courts  leet,  views  of  frank-pledge,  warrens,  waters,  fisheries  and  all 
other  profits,  with  all  rents  and  revenues  fiom  4  March,  1  Edward IV. 

By  p.s. 

Grant  and  confirmation  for  life  to  Margaret,  countess  of  Richemond,  wife 
of  Henry  Staiford,  son  of  Humphrey,  late  duke  of  Buckingham,  late  the  wife 
of  Edmund,  earl  of  Richemond,  and  daughter  and  heir  of  John,  late  duke 


4  EDWARD  IV.— Pabt  H.  363 


1464.  Membrane  24 — cent. 

of  Somerset,  of  the  assignment  made  to  her  in  dower  bj  letters  patent  dated 
20  July,  37  Henry  VI.  of  two  parts  of  the  manors  of  Kendale  and  Nether- 
weresday  with  appurtenances  in  the  counties  of  York,  Lancaster  and 
Westmoreland  and  two  parts  of  the  lordship  and  manor  of  Bassyngbom  and 
the  honor  and  baillage  of  Baberham  with  appurtenances  in  the  counties 
of  Cambridge,  Hertford  and  Essex,  parcel  of  the  lands  of  the  said  earl  her 
husband,  with  divers  specified  liberties,  to  hold  the  same  with  all  issues  from 
4  March,  1  Edward  IV.  By  p.s.  and  for  40s,  paid  in  the  hanaper. 

I3ec.  10.         Mandate  to  the  escheator  in  the  counties  of  Southampton  and  Wilt«  for 
Westminster,  the  restitution  of  the  temporalities  of  the  abbey  of  Wilton  to  Edith  Barogh, 
nun  of  the  house,  whose  election  as  abbess  B.  bishop  of  Salisbury  has  con- 
firmed, and  whose  fealty  the  king  has  taken.  By  p.s. 

The  like  to  the  escheators  in  the  following  counties  : — 

Somerset  and  Dorset. 

Devon. 

Kent. 

Cornwall. 
Writ  de  intendendo  in  pursuance  to  the  tenants.  By  p.s. 

Dec.  10.  Pardon  to  Henry  Waver,  citizen  and  draper  of  London,  late  one  of  the 
Westminster,  collectors  of  the  custom  and  subsidy  of  wools,  bides  and  wool-fells,  the  petty 
custom  and  the  subsidy  of  tonnage  and  poundage  in  the  port  of  Ipswich  and 
ports  and  places  adjacent,  and  late  one  of  the  collectors  of  the  petty  custom 
in  the  port  of  the  city  of  London,  of  all  offences  committed  by  him  and  all 
actions  and  demands,  provided  that  these  letters  do  not  extend  to  the 
exoneration  of  him  from  any  accounts  of  his  offices.  By  K. 

Membranb  23. 

Dec.  13.  Commission  to  Kichard  Harecourte,  esquire,  Thomas  Stonour,  esquire, 
Westminster.  John  Stokes,  esquire,  Thomas  Walron,  William  Marmyon,  Humphrey 
Forster  and  Geoffrey  Kedwelly  to  enquire  into  the  petition  of  John 
Mervyn  that  whereas  Robert  Hungerford,  knight,  lord  Hungerford  of 
Hey  tresbury  and  Hametetcb,  was  seised  of  a  moiety  of  the  manor  of  Stoke 
Mules,  CO.  Oxford,  in  his  demesne  as  of  fee  and  by  a  deed  dated  1  October, 
34  Henry  VI.  granted  the  said  moiety  to  him  for  life,  at  a  rent  of  40ff. 
to  Margaret  wife  of  the  said  Robert,  or  if  she  died  to  the  said  Robert,  and 
accordingly  he  was  seised  of  the  same  and  received  the  profits,  and  the 
reversion  of  the  said  moiety  descended  to  Robert  Hungerford  his  son, 
late  lord  Hungerford  and  Moleyns,  and  the  latter  was  attainted  of  high 
treason  in  Parliament  at  Westminster,  4  November,  1  Edward  IV.  and 
it  was  ordained  that  he  should  forfeit  all  the  possessions  which  he  held  on 
4  March,  1  Edward  IV.  or  had  right  of  entry  into  in  England,  Ireland, 
Wales  and  Calais  or  the  marches  of  the  same  without  the  liberty  of  the 
bishopric  of  Durham,  viz.  between  the  waters  of  Tyne  and  Tese  and  the 
places  called  Norhamshire  and  Bedlyngtonshire,  co.  Northumberland,  and 
it  was  found  by  an  inquisition  taken  at  Thame,  co.  Oxford,  on  1 1  April, 
4  Edward  IV.  before  John  Austen,  then  escheator  in  the  said  county,  and 
returned  to  Chancery  on  19  April,  that  John  Carpenter,  bishop  of  Worcester, 
John,  bishop  of  Lincoln,  John  Fortescu,  John  Baynton,  knights,  John 
Say,  esquire,  Thomas  Estyngton,  John  Pyers,  Richard  Ulseton,  Gregory 
Westby,  John  Mervyn  and  John  Whyng  were  seised  in  their  demesne  as 
of  fee  on  the  said  4  March  of  the  moiety  of  the  manor  of  Stoke  Mules 
ali(u  Hungerford  Maner  in  Stoke  Moyles  to  the  use  of  the  said  Robert, 
lord  Hungerford,  and  accordingly  the  said  moiety  was  taken  into  the  king's 
hands  by  the  said  escheator  on  the  said  1 1  April  and  the  said  John  Mervyn 
removed  from  possession,  the  king  by  letters  patent  dated  21  May, 
4  Edward  IV.  granted  the  said  moiety  to  John  Dynbam,  esquire,  (with 


364  CALENDAR  OF  PATENT  ROLLS. 


1464,  Membrane  23 — cont. 

I'emainder  to  Charles  and  Roger  Djnham)  who  entered  into  and  was  seis<^ 
of  ity  but  that  the  said  bishops  and  others  had  no  right  in  it  nor  was  the 
said  Robert  seised  of  it,  but  lie  himself,  the  said  John  Mervyn,  continued 
his  estate  in  it  from  the  said  1  October  to  the  said  11  April  when  he  -was 
ejected,  wherefore  he  prays  that  justice  may  be  done.  By  K. 

Dec.  13.  Commission  to  N'icholas  Ayssheton,  John  Gifibrd,  John  Denys,  Richard 

Westminster.  Denshill  and  Nicholas  Hervey  to  enquire  into  a  like  petition  of  Mar- 
garet late  the  wife  of  the  said  Robert  Hungerford  the  elder  that  whereas 
the  latter  was  seised  of  the  manors  of  Southpole,  Harles'ton  and  Plymptre, 
CO.  Devon,  and  married  her  at  Haythredesbury,  co.  Wilts,  and  after  their 
espousal  enfeoffed  John  Carpenter,  bishop  of  Worcester,  John,  viscount 
Beamond,  John  Fortescu,  John  Bay n ton,  knights,  John  Say,  esquire, 
Thomas  Estyngton,  John  Peres,  Richard  Ulseton,  Gregory  Westby  and 
John  Mervyn  of  the  said  manors,  and  these  were  seised  of  them  and  after 
his  death,  viz.  on  8  February,  39  Henry  VI.  assigned  inter  alia  the  said 
manor  of  Plymptre  to  her  for  dower  and  she  was  seised  of  the  same  and 
received  the  profits  and  continue<l  her  estate  in  it  from  3  March,  37  Henry 
VI.  until  19  March,  4  Edward  IV.  and  the  said  Robert  the  younger  was 
attf anted  as  above,  and  by  letters  patent  dated  12  August,  3  Edward  IV. 
the  king  directed  William  Paulet,  knight,  John  Clieyue  of  Pynne,  Walter 
Ralegh,  John  GifFord,  Robert  Stowell,  John  Siddenham  the  younger,  John 
More,  John  Denys  and  John  Porter  to  enquire  what  possessions  he  held, 
and  it  was  found  by  an  inquisition  taken  at  Aisberton,  co.  Devon,  on  10 
March,  4  Edward  IV.  before  the  said  Walter  Ralegh  and  John  Gifford  and 
returned  to  Chancery  on  10  April  that  John  Carpenter,  bishop  of  Worcester, 
John,  bishop  of  Lincoln,  John  Fortescu,  John  Baynton,  knights,  John  Say, 
esquire,  Thomas  Estyngton,  John  Peres,  Richard  Ulfeton,  Gregory  Westby, 
John  Mervyn  and  John  Whyng  were  seised  on  4  March,  1  Edward  IV.  of 
the  said  manor  of  Plymptre  to  the  uae  of  the  said  Robert,  and  accordingly 
it  was  taken  into  the  king's  hands  on  the  said  19  March  by  Thomas  Gille, 
then  eschsator  in  the  county,  and  she  was  expelled  from  possession,  the 
king  by  letters  patent  dated  21  May,  4  Edward  IV.  granted  it  to  the 
above-mentioned  John  Dynham,  esquire,  as  above  but  that  the  said  bishops 
and  others  had  no  right  in  it  nor  had  the  said  Robert,  but  she  continued  her 
estate  in  it  until  she  was  expelled,  wherefore  she  prays  that  justice  may  be 
done.  By  K. 

Membrane  22. 

Dec.  13.  Commission  to  Nicholas  Ayssheton,  .lohn  Gifford,  Joha  Denys,  Richard 

Westminster.  Densehill  and  Nicholas  Hervy  to  enquire  into  a  like  petition  of  Thomas 
Hungerford,  knight,  son  and  heir  of  Robert,  lord  Hungerford  and  Moleyns, 
and  Anne  his  wife,  daughter  of  Eleanor,  countess  of  Northumberland,  that 
whereas  John  Carpenter,  bishop  of  Worcester,  John  Fortescu,  John 
Baynton,  knights,  John  Say,  esquire,  Thomas  Estyngton,  John  Peres, 
Richard  Ulseton,  chaplains,  Gregory  Westby  and  John  Mervyn  were  seised 
of  the  manors  of  Sutton  Lucy,  Colwell  and  Wolmeston,  co.  Devon,  in  their 
demesne  as  of  fee  and  by  deed  dated  16  October,  39  Hour}'  VI.,  demised 
them  to  the  said  Thomas  and  Anne  and  the  heirs  of  their  bodies,  with 
remainder  to  the  said  lord  Hungerford  and  his  heirs,  and  they  were  seised  of 
them  and  received  the  profits  and  continued  their  estate  from  the  said 
16  October  until  19  March,  4  Edward  IV.  and  the  said  lord  Hungerford 
was  attainted  as  above,  and  it  was  found  by  the  above-mentioned 
inquisition  taken  at  Aisberton,  co.  Devon,  on  19  March  before  Walter 
Ralegh  and  John  Gifford  by  virtue  of  the  above-mentioned  letters  patent 
dated  12  August,  3  Edward  IV.  that  John  Carpenter,  bishop  of  Worcester, 
John,  bishop  of  Lincoln,  John  Fortescu,  John  Baynton,  knights,  John  Say, 
esquire,  IhomasEstyngton,  John  Peres,  Richard  Ulseton,  Gregory  Westby, 


4  EDWARD  IV.— Part  II.  .    •  365 


I464i.  Metnhrane  22 — cont. 

John  Mervyn  and  John  Whyng  were  seised  on  4  March^  1  Edward  IV.,  of 
the  said  manors  to  the  use  of  the  said  Robert,  lord  Hungerford,  and 
accordingly  the  manors  were  taken  into  the  king's  hands  by  Thomas  Gille, 
then  escheator  in  the  county,  and  they  were  expelled  from  possession,  the 
king  by  letters  patent  dated  21  May,  4  Edward  IV.  granted  the  said  manors 
of  Sutton  Lucy  and  Colwyll  or  Colywyll  to  John  Dynham,  esquire,  as  above 
but  that  the  said  bishops  and  others  had  no  right  in  the  manors  after  the  said 
demise  nor  hod  the  said  Robert,  lord  Hungerford,  nor  anyone  else  but  they 
themselves,  wherefore  they  pray  that  justice  may  be  done.  By  K. 

Dec.  13.  Commission  to  Nicholas  Ayssheton,  Thomas  Seint  Maure,  knight,  John 

Westminster.  Siddeuham  the  elder,  John  Fitz James,  Robert  Stowell  and  John  Bignell  to 
enquire  into  a  like  petition  of  the  above-mentioned  Thomas  Hungerford, 
knight,  and  Anne  his  wife  that  whereas  John  Stourton,  knight,  Edmund 
Hungerford,  knight,  Andrew  Huls,  clerk,  Arnold  Hungerford,  esquire, 
Richard  Chok,  serjeant  at  law,  Thomas  Estyngton,  John  Pyers,  clerks, 
Thomas  Tropenell,  John  Mervyn  and  John  Touke  were  seised  of  the  manor 
of  Maperton  with  its  members  of  Halton  and  Clopton  and  the  manor  of 
Suthcadbury,  co.  Somerset,  with  the  advowson  of  the  church  of  Suthcadbury 
in  their  demesne  as  of  fee  and  received  the  profits  and  by  indenture  dated 
16  October,  39  Henry  VI.  demised  the  said  manors  to  the  above-mentioned 
Robert,  late  lord  Hungerford  and  Molyns,  Richard  Ulseton,  clerk,  and  John 
Whyng,  *  yoman,*  for  the  life  of  the  said  Robert,  with  remainder  to  the  said 
Thomas  and  Anne  and  the  heirs  of  their  bodies,  with  remainder  to  the 
right  heirs  of  the  said  Robert,  and  these  three  were  seised  of  the  manors 
in  their  demesne  and  received  the  profits  and  continued  theii  posses- 
sion until  18  May,  4  Edward  IV.  on  which  day  the  said  Robert  died 
at  Newcastle  on  Tyne,  co.  Northumberland,  and  the  manors  remained  to 
the  said  Thomas  and  Anne,  and  the  said  Robert  was  attainted  as  above, 
and  the  king  by  letters  patent  dated  26  March,  4  Edward  IV.  directed 
William  Paulett,  knight,  Walter  Ralegh,  John  Gyfford,  Robert  Stowell, 
John  Sydenham  the  younger,  John  Denys  and  John  Porter  to  enquire  what 
possessions  he  held  in  the  said  county,  and  it  was  found  by  an  inquisition 
taken  at  Cherd,  co.  Somerset,  on  20  August,  4  Edward  IV.  before  the  said 
Walter  Rahgh  and  eTohn  Sydenham  and  returned  to  Chancery  on  31  August 
that  John  Carpenter,  bishop  of  Worcester,  John,  bishop  of  Lincoln,  John 
Fortescu,  John  Baynton,  knights,  John  Say,  esquire,  Thomas  Estyngton, 
John  Pyers,  Richard  Ulsexon,  Gregory  Westby,  John  Mervyn  and  John 
Whyng  were  seised  on  4  March,  1  Edward  IV,  of  the  said  manors  with  the 
advowson  of  the  said  church  to  the  use  of  the  said  Robeit,  aud  accordingly 
the  manors  were  taken  into  the  king's  hands  on  the  said  20  August  by 
Thomas  Maunsell,  then  escheator  in  the  said  county  of  Somerset,  the  king 
by  letters  patent  dated  1  October,  4  Edward  IV.  granted  them  to  John 
Dynham,  esquire,  as  above,  but  that  the  said  bishops  and  others  were  not 
scise<l  of  the  said  manors  but  tlint  they  remained  to  themselves  as  above, 
wherefore  they  pray  that  justice  may  be  done.  By  K. 


Mbmbranb  21. 

Dec.  13.  Commission  to  Nicholas  Ayssheton,  John  GyfTord,  John  Denys,  Richard 
Westminster.  Denshill  and  Nicholas  Hervy  to  enquire  into  a  like  petition  of  John 
Carpenter,  bishop  of  Worcester,  John  Baynton,  knight,  John  Say,  esquire, 
Thomas  Estyngton,  John  Peres,  Richard  Ulseton,  Gregory  Westby  and 
John  Mervyn  that  whereas  Robert  Hungerford,  knight,  of  Hayghtredes- 
bury  and  Hamctethy  was  seised  of  the  manors  of  Southpole  and  Harleston 
and  the  third  part  of  the  manor  of  Wekecobeham,  co.  Devon,  in  his 
demesne  as  of  fee  and  on  3  March,  37  Henry  VI.  enfeoffed  the  said  com- 
plainants and  John,  viscount  Beaumont^  now  deceased,  and  John  Fortescu 


366  CALENDAB  OF  PATENT  ROLLS. 


1464.  Membrane  21 — cant. 

of  the  same  to  the  use  of  Margaret  Hungerford  his  wife  for  her  life,  and 
they  were  seised  of  the  same  and  received  the  profits,  and  afterwards  and 
before  4  March,  1  Edward  IV.  the  said  viscomit  died  and  the  survivors 
continued  their  estate  in  the  same  until  4  November,  1  Edward  lY.  when 
Eobert,  lord  Hungerford  and  Molejns,  son  of  the  said  Robert,  and  the  said 
John  Fortescu  were  attainted  of  high  treason  bj  the  act  aforesaid  as  above, 
and  it  was  ordained  in  the  said  act  that  the  estates  of  all  persons  not 
attainted  should  be  untouched,  and  the  said  petitioners  and  the  said 
Margaret  wore  not  attainted,  and  the  said  petitioners  were  seised  of  the 
above  continuously  until  19  March,  4  Edward  IV.  when  it  was  found  by 
the  above-mentioned  inquisition  taken  at  Aysberton,  co.  Devon,  by  virtue 
of  the  above-mentioned  letters  patent  dated  12  August,  3  Edward  IV.  that 
the  said  petitioners  and  John,  bishop  of  Lincoln,  John  Fortescu  and 
John  Whyn^  were  seised  of  the  said  manors  and  third  part  to  the  use  of 
the  said  Robert,  late  lord  Hungerford,  and  the  same  were  accordingly  taken 
into  the  king's  hands  by  Thomas  GiUe,  then  escheator  in  the  county,  on 
the  said  19  March,  the  king  by  letters  patent  dated  21  May,  4  Edward  IV. 
granted  the  said  manors  and  third  part  to  John  Dynham,  esquire,  contrary 
to  right)  as  shown  above,  wherefore  they  pray  that  justice  may  be  done. 

ByK. 

Mbmbrane  20. 

June  30.  Ordinance,  on  account  of  the  dissensions  that  arise  between  the  citizens  of 
Pontefract.  York,  for  the  election  of  a  mayor  of  the  city  in  the  following  manner. 
The  existing  mayor  shall  on  14  Januaiy,  the  vigil  of  St.  Maur,  summon  all 
the  searchers  of  every  mistery  within  the  city  and  liberty  to  cause  all  the 
workers  of  their  misteries  to  appear  personally  in  the  Gkiildhall  on  the 
following  day  for  the  election  of  a  mayor  for  the  ensuing  year;  and 
the  workers  thus  assembled  shall  nominate  two  aldermen  of  the  city,  neither 
of  whom  shall  have  been  twice  mayor  or  mayor  for  ^yi^  years  previously, 
and  the  names  of  these  shall  be  presented  in  writing  to  the  mayor,  aldermen 
and  council  by  the  recorder,  the  senior  sheriff  and  the  common  clerk.  The 
mayor  and  each  alderman  and  councillor  shall  then  secretly  declare  his 
choice  of  the  two  to  the  said  recorder,  sheriff  and  clerk,  and  the  one  of  the 
two  with  most  votes  shall  be  declared  elected  mayor  on  the  feast  of 
St.  Blaise  following  for  one  jear,  the  existing  mayor  choosing  in  case  of 
equality,  and  shall  hold  his  office  until  the  tenth  hour  before  noon  on  the 
next  feast  of  St.  Blaize.     IFoedera.]  By  K. 

1465. 

Feb.  6.  Grant  to  the  king's  brother  George,  duke  of  Clarence,  and  the  heirs  of 

Weatminster.  his  body  of  the  manor  and  lordship  of  Hunspyll  Maryse  with  its  members, 

CO.  Somerset,  with  knights'  fees,  advowsons,  parks,  warrens,  chaces,  forests 

and  all  liberties,  franchises,  courts  leet,  views  of  frank-pledge,  customs  and 

profits.  By  K, 

March  8.  Grant  to  William  Herbert,  king's  knight,  lord  Herbert,  and  the  heirs  of 
Westminster,  his  body,  for  his  good  service  against  Henry  VI.  late  pretended  king  of 
England,  and  Henry^  duke  of  Exeter,  Jaspar,  earl  of  Pembroke,  James, 
earl  of  Wiltshire,  and  other  rebels  and  the  conquering  of  divers  castles, 
towns,  fortalioes  and  territories  held  by  them  in  Wales,  of  the  honour,  castle, 
manor  and  borough  of  Dunster,  the  manor  of  Mynhede,  the  manor  and 
hundred  of  Carhampton,  the  manors  of  Culveton,  Estcantok  or  Cantoke- 
shede  and  Iveton,  two  messuages,  209  acres  of  land  and  24  acres  of  meadow 
in  Caynesford  and  Waget,  14  messuages,  a  toft,  3  carucates  and  200  acres 
of  land,  41  acres  of  meadow,  60  acres  of  pasture  and  l^d.  rent  in  Exton, 
Vexford,  Rixen,  Stokegomer,  Huysshe  by  Heybrygge,  Ootheleston,  Lytyll 
Carhampton  and  Kadlot,  and  a  messuage  and  a  carucate  of  land  in  Wybwyll 


4  EDWARD  IV.— Pabt  IL  307 


14i65.  Membrane  20 — cont. 

or  Wibbilly  all  in  the  county  of  ScmerBet,  the  manors  of  Chilton  and  Blan- 
combe,  co.  Devon,  and  the  manors  of  Stonehall  and  Wodhall,  co.  Suffolk,  late 
of  James  Loterell,  knight,  and  iu  the  king's  bands  bj  reason  of  his  forfeiture 
and  bj  virtue  of  an  act  of  forfeiture  in  Parliament  at  Westminster,  4 
November,  1  Edward  lY.  with  all  franchises,  liberties,  courts,  jurisdictions, 
leets,  views  of  frank-pledge,  hundreds,  fairs,  markets,  parks,  stews,  warrens, 
knights'  fees,  services,  rents,  advowsons,  wreck  of  sea  and  other  profits, 
with  all  issues  from  30  December,  39  Henry  VI. ;  and  grant  that  he  and  his 
said  heirs  may  have  a  market  weekly  on  Tuesdays  at  the  town  of  Mynhede 
and  a  fair  there  yearly  on  the  vigil,  the  feast,  and  the  morrow  of  SS.  Philip 
and  James  with  courts,  tolls  and  all  jurisdictions.  By  K. 

1464.  Membrane  19. 

Dec.  17.  Grant  to  Bobert  Constable  of  Flaymburgh,  knight,  and  the  heirs  male  of 

Westminster,  his  body  of  the  mauor  or  lordship  of  Howsom  with  couits,  rents,  services 
of  free  tenants,  tenants  at  will,  and  bondmen  there  with  the  advowson  of 
the  abbey  of  Kirkeham,  co.  York,  in  the  king's  hands  by  reason  of  an  act 
in  Parliament  at  Westminster,  4  November,  1  Edward  IV.,  against  Thomas 
Boos,  knight,  late  lord  of  Boos,  and  the  manor  or  lordship  of  Hesell  with  '  le 
ferry '  and  the  passages  there  with  courts,  rents,  services  of  free  tenants, 
tenants  at  will,  and  bondmen  in  the  county  of  Kyngeston  on  Hull  and  the 
hamlet  of  Paddokthorp  with  all  woods,  lands  and  tenements  in  the  county  of 
the  city  of  York,  in  the  king's  hands  by  reason  of  an  act  as  above  against 
William  Tallboys,  knight,  with  knights'  fees  and  advowsons,  with  all  issues 
from  4  March,  I  Edward  IV.  By  p.s. 

Dec  15.  Grant  to  the  king's  servitor  Thomas  Mongomery,  knight,  whom  the 

Westminster,  king  has  raised  to  the  order  of  knighthood  for  his  good  service  against  the 
rebels,  and  the  heirs  male  of  his  body  of  the  manor  or  lordship  of  Salden  or 
Saldeyn  with  its  members,  the  manor  of  Donyngton  or  Donton,  the  manor 
of  Westorchard  in  the  town  of  Hertwell  and  the  parish  of  Stone,  the  manor 
of  Stone  called  Seyntclere  Maner  alias  Bracy  Maner,  a  messuage,  two  tofts 
and  12  vii'gates  of  land  in  Morton  in  the  parish  of  Donton,  a  messuage, 
7  virgates  of  land,  30  acres  of  meadow  and  20  acres  of  pasture  in  Parmer, 
and  two  tofts  and  5  virgates  of  land  in  Walderuge,  all  in  the  county  of 
Buckingham,  late  of  Bobert  Whityngham,  knight,  and  in  the  king's  hands  by 
reason  of  an  act  in  Parliament  at  Westminster,  4  November,  1  Edward  IV. 
with  knights'  fees,  advowsons,  wards,  marriages,  reliefs,  escheats,  courts  leet, 
views  of  frank-pledge,  parks,  warrens,  fairs,  markets,  liberties,  franchises, 
hidages,  beaupleader,  silver  called  ^  frith  silver '  and '  hedesilver,'  and  all 
other  profits,  and  all  revenues  from  4  March,  1  Edward  IV.;  and  also  a 
tenement  which  James  Welles,  draper,  now  holds  in  Bradstrete  in  the 
parish  of  St.  Christopher  by  lez  Stokkes,  London,  situated  between  the 
church  of  St.  Christopher  and  the  churchyard  on  the  west,  the  rectory  of  the 
church  on  the  north,  a  tenement  pertaining  to  the  church  on  the  east  and 
the  highway  of  Bradstrete  on  Uie  south,  a  messuage  with  two  tenements 
annexed  in  the  parish  of  St.  Peter  le  Poor,  London,  between  a  tenement  per- 
taining to  the  church  of  St.  Thomas  of  Aeon,  London,  and  the  tenements 
and  gardens  of  Ellas  David  on  the  west,  the  common  hall  and  tenements  and 
gardens  pertaining  to  the  commonalty  of  the  art  of  Talugh  Chaundelers, 
London,  on  the  east  and  north  and  the  highway  of  Bradstrete  on  the  south, 
which  Peter  Morysson,  merchant,  holds  at  farm,  and  another  messuage 
which  Thomas  Ougle, '  carpenter,'  holds  at  farm  situated  in  the  parish  of 
St.  Peter,  ComhuU,  London,  between  the  common  hall  of  the  art  of 
Tailors  and  a  tenement  pertaining  to  the  fraternity  of  St.  John  Baptist  of 
the  same  art  on  the  west  and  north,  a  tenement  of  Valentine  Dryland  on  the 
south    and   the    highway   there  on    the  east,   late  of  the    said  Bobert 


368  CALENDAR  OF  PATENT  ROLLS. 


J464*.  Membrane  19 — cont» 

Whjtjngham  and  in  the  king's  hands  as  ahove,  and  all  revenues  from  the 
same  from  4  March,  1  Edwai5  IV.  By  K. 

Dec.  21.  General  pardon  to  William  Tuffyn,  alias  Tuffen,  *  joman.*  By  K. 

WeRtminster. 

Dec.  13.  Commission  to  Nicholas  AysshetOD,  John  Gifford,  John  Denys,  Richard 
Westminster.  Densehill  and  Nicholas  Hervy  to  enquire  into  a  petition  of  John  Car- 
penter, bishop  of  Worcester,  John  Baynton,  knight,  John  Say,  Thomas 
Estyngton,  John  Peres,  Richard  Ulfeton,  Gregory  AVestby  and  John 
Mervyn  that  whereas  Robert  Hungerford,  knight,  lord  of  Haythredesbury 
and  Hametethy,  was  seised  of  the  advowson  of  the  church  of  Dupeford, 
CO.  Devon,  in  time  of  peace  in  the  time  of  Henry  VI.  and  presented 
Peter  Courteney,  his  clerk,  to  the  same  cliurch,  who  was  inducted  and 
received  the  fruits  thereof,  and  by  deed  dated  3  May,  37  Henry  VI., 
granted  the  said  advowson  to  the  said  petitioners  and  John,  viscount 
Beaumont,  now  deceased,  and  John  Fortescu  to  hold  for  the  use  of  Margaret 
Hungerford  his  wife,  who  is  still  living,  for  her  life,  and  they  were  seised  of 
the  same,  and  afterwards  and  before  4  March,  1  Edward  IV.  the  said 
viscount  died  and  the  survivors  continued  their  estate  in  the  same  until 
4  November,  1  Edward  IV.  when  Robert,  late  lord  Hungerford  and 
Aloleyns,  son  of  the  said  Robert,  and  the  said  John  Fortescu  were  attainted 
of  high  treason  as  is  mentioned  above  (see  p.  363),  but  the  said  petitioners 
and  the  said  Margaret  were  not  attainted,  and  the  said  petitioners  were 
seised  of  the  said  advowson  continuously  from  the  said  4  November  until 
19  March,  4  Edward  IV.  when  it  was  found  by  an  inquisition  taken  at 
Aisberton,  co.  Devon,  on  the  said  19  March  by  virtue  of  letters  patent  dated 
12  August,  3  Edward  IV.  (see  p.  364)  that  the  said  petitioners  and  John, 
bishop  of  Lincoln,  John  Fortescu  and  John  Whyng  were  seised  of  the  said 
advowson  to  the  use  of  the  said  Robert,  late  lord  Hungerford,  the  said 
advowson  was  accordingly  taken  into  the  king's  hands  on  the  said  19  March 
by  Thomas  Gille,  then  escheator  in  the  county,  and  they  were  removed  from 
possession,  contrary  to  right,  as  is  shown  above,  wherefore  they  pray  that 
justice  may  be  done.  By  K. 

Mbmbranb  18. 

Dec.  13.  Commission  to  Nicholas  Ayssheton,  Thomas  Seyntmaure,  knight,  John 
Westminster.  Sidnam  the  elder,  John  FitzJames,  Robert  Stowell  and  John  Bignell  to 
enquire  into  a  like  petition  of  Margaret  late  the  wife  of  Robert  Hun- 
gerford, knight,  lord  of  Hungerford,  Heythredesbury  and  Hametethy, 
that  whereas  the  latter  was  seised  of  the  manor  of  Wotton  Courtenay,  co. 
Somerset,  and  married  her  at  Haythredesbury,  co.  Wilts,  and  after  their 
espousal  enfeoffed  John  Carpenter,  bishop  of  Worcester,  John,  viscount 
Beaumond,  John  Fortescu,  John  Baynton,  knights,  John  Say,  esquire, 
Thomas  Estyngton,  John  Peres,  Richard  Ulseton,  Gregory  Westby  and 
John  Mervyn  of  the  said  manor,  and  they  were  seised  of  it  and  after  his 
death,  viz.  on  8  February,  38  Henry  VI.  assigned  it  to  her  for  dower  and 
she  entered  into  it  and  was  seised  of  it  and  received  the  profits  and  continued 
her  estate  in  it  from  the  said  3  March,  37  Henry  VI.  until  20  August,  4 
Edward  IV.  and  Robert,  late  lord  Hungerford  and  Moleyns,  son  of  the  said 
Robert,  was  attainted  as  above,  and  it  was  found  by  an  inquisition  taken  at 
Charde,  co.  Somerset,  on  the  said  20  August  by  virtue  of  letters  patent  date<l 
26  March,  4  Edward  IV.  (see  p.  365)  that  John  Carpenter,  bishop  of 
Worcester,  John,  bishop  of  Lincoln,  John  Fortescu,  John  Baynton,  knights, 
John  Say,  esquire,  Thomas  Estyngton,  John  Pyers,  Richard  Ulseton, 
Gregory  Westby,  John  Mervyn  and  John  Whyng  were  seised  of  the  said 
manov  of  Wotton  Courtenay  or  Worton  Courtenay  to  the  use  of  the  said 
Robert,  late  lord  Hungerford,  and  accordingly  it  was  taken'  into  the  king's 
hands  on  the  said  20  August  by  Thomas  Maunsell,  then  escheator  in  the 


4  EDWARD  IV.— Paet  II.  369 


1464.  Membrane  18 — cont. 

county,  and  she  was  expelled  from  possession,  the  king  by  letters  patent 
dated  1  October,  4  Edward  IV.  granted  it  to  John  Dynham,  esquire,  but 
that  neither  the  said  bishops  and  others  nor  anyone  else  but  she  herself  had 
any  right  in  it  after  the  said  assignment,  wherefore  she  prays  that  justice 
j  may  be  done.  By  K. 

Mbmbranb  17. 

Dec.  12.         Grant  to  the  king's  servitor  Balph  Hastynges,  one  of  the  esquires  of  the 

Wei^tminfiter.   body,  and  his  heirs  and  assigns  of  a  tenement  called  *  le  Kay  *  in  the  town  of 

Norhampton,  another  tenement  in  the  same  town  in  a  street  called  'le  Gold- 

strete  *  in  the  occupation  of  John  Irthyngbourgh,  the  manor  of  Shankton, 

CO.  Leicester,  a  close  called  '  Hardewyk  Clos '  in  the  parish  of  Shankton 

aforesaid  containing  300  acres  of  land,  the  manor  of  Napton,  co.  Warwick, 

a  messuage,  30  acres  of  land  and  5  acres  of  pasture  in  Napton  aforesaid, 

the  manor  or  lordship  of   Grendons  aUou  Valens  in  Great  Shelford,  co. 

Cambridge,  with  appurtenances  in  Trumpyngton,  Grauncestre,  Newenham, 

Baburham,  Wittelesford  Brigge,  Hartescote  and  elsewhere  in  the  county, 

the  manor  of  Boteshamlode,  co.  Cambridge,  a  messuage,  100  acres  of  land, 

20  acres  of  meadow  and  40  acres  of  pasture  in  Swapham  and  Bulbech,  co. 

Cambridge,  a  messuage  and  100  acres  of  land  called '  Horspath '  in  Wercham, 

CO.  Berks,  a  tenement  in  Synyngwell,  co.  Berks,  a  moiety  of  the  manor  or 

lordship  of  Cobelyngton,  co.  Buckingham,  a  moiety  of  the  manor  of  Stukeley, 

CO.  Buckingham,  a  moiety  of  the  manor  of  Chemelscote,  co.  Buckingham,  a 

moiety  of  the  manor  of  Lynchelade  with  appurtenances  in  Southcote  and 

elsewhere  in  the  same  county,  and  the  manors  of  Lathebury  and  Stonton 

Barry,  co.  Buckingham,  late  of  William  Vaux  or  Yaws,  knight,  in  the  king's 

hands  by  reason  of  an  act  in  Parliament  at  Westminster,  4  November,  1 

I  Edward  IV.  and  two  tenements,  100  acres  of  ^land  and  10  acres  of  meadow 

I  in  Stonton  Barry  aforesaid,  AO  acres  of  land  and  8  acres  of  meadow  in  Brad- 

'  well,  CO.  Buckingham,  and   two   tenements  and   3  virgates  of  land   in 

I  Wendlyngbourgh,  co.  Northampton,  late  of  Thomas  Tresham,  knight,  and 

in  the  king's  hands  by  reason  of  the  act  aforesaid,  with  knights'  fees, 
advowsons,  courts  leet,  views  of  frank-pledge,  parks,  warrens  chaces,  fairs, 
markets,  waters,  fisheries,  liberties,  franchises  and  all  profits;  grant  to  him 
and  Anne  his  wife  and  his  heirs  of  the  manor  or  lordship  of  Great 
Harowedon,  co.  Northampton,  with  members  and  appurtenances  in  Little 
Harowcdon,  Orlyngbere,  Isham,  Holcote,  Cranesley  and  elsewhere  in  the 
same  county,  the  manor  or  lordship  of  Wilby,  co.  Northampton,  with 
members  and  appurtenances  in  Earl's  Barton,  Great  Dodyngton,  Wendlyng- 
bourgh and  elsewhere  in  the  same  county,  the  manor  or  lordship  of  Horpoll, 
CO.  Northampton,  and  the  manors  and  lordships  of  Chevynston  and  Carleton 
and  the  manors  of  Clopham  and  Okelef ,  co.  Bedford^  late  of  the  said  William 
and  in  the  king's  hands  as  above,  with  knights'  fees,  advowsons,  courts  leet, 
views  of  frank-pledge,  warrens,  chaces,  fairs,  markets,  fisheries,  liberties, 
franchises  and  all  profits ;  and  grant  to  him  of  all  issues  from  the  above  from 
4  March,  1  Edward  IV.  By  K 

Nov.  8.  Licence  for  the  acquisition  in  mortmain,  after  inquisition,  by  the  dean 

Wycombe,  and  chapter  of  the  cathedral  church  of  St.  Andrew,  Wells,  of  40/.  worth 
yearly  of  lands,  tenements  or  rents,  not  held  in  chief,  from  Thomas,  bishop 
of  Bath  and  Wells,  or  other  persons,  to  do  certain  works  of  piety  for  the 
safety  of  his  soul  and  the  souls  of  his  parents  and  benefactors  according  to 
his  ordinance  or  the  ordinance  or  other  grantors. 

By  p.s.  and  for  140/.  paid  in  the  hanaper. 

Memorandum.     On  8  Nocembery  8  Henry  VIL^  they  acquired  from 
Th,  Ustewate  and  Richard  Isham  the  manor  and  advowton  of  Alwarton^ 
to  the  value  of  10  marks  yearly^  in  part  scUisfacHon, 
u    86014.  A  A 


370  CALENDAR  OP  PATENT  ROLLS. 


1464.  Membrane  17 — cont. 

Dec.  19.         Presentation  of  Thomas  Jenkyn,  pai*son  of  the  parish   chnrch  of  St. 
Westminiter.  Martio,  Netherwent,  in  the  diocese  of  Llandaff,  to  the  parish  church  of 
Stratton  on  the  Foss,  in  the  diocese  of  Bath  and  Wells,  on  an  exchange  of 
benefices  with  William  Britte. 

Dec.  19.  Appointment  of  Master  William  Say,  dean  of  the  cathedral  church  of 

Westminster.  St.  Paul,  London,  Thomas  Chicheley,  archdeacon  of  Canterbury,  John 
Flemmyng,  one  of  the  king's  chaplains,  and  John  Scott,  knight,  John 
Denham,  esquire,  and  Thomas  Colt,  king's  councillors,  as  receivers  of  the 
subsidy  g^ranted  to  the  king  by  the  clergy  of  the  provinces  of  Canterbury 
and  York  at  the  exhortation  of  Thomas,  archbishop  of  Canterbury,  and 
William,  late  archbishop  of  York,  to  be  by  him  presented  to  the  pope  for 
his  aid  and  relief  against  the  tyranny  and  cruelty  of  the  Grand  Turk,  with 
authority  to  summon  the  collectors  of  the  subsidy  and  acquit  them  of  sums 
collected.  By  K. 

1465. 

Feb.  15.  Grant  to  the  king's  tenants  and  residents  within  the  borough  or  town  of 

Westmintter.  Wendover,  co.  Buckingham,  of  two  fairs  yearly  witliin  the  said  )>orough  or 
town,  vis.  on  the  vigil,  feast  and  morrow  of  St.  Matthew  the  Apostle  and 
the  vigil,  feast  and  morrow  of  SS.  Philip  and  James,  Apostles,  with  courts 
and  all  jurisdictions,  liberties  and  profits ;  and  confirmation  to  them  of  a 
market  which  they  have  always  had  weekly  on  Thursdays  within  the  said 
town  or  borough,  with  all  liberties  and  franchises. 

By  K.  and  for  20«.  paid  in  the  hanaper. 

1464.  MSMBRANBS   16  AND   15. 

Aug.  13.  Indenture  between  the  king  and  William,  lord  Hastynges,  his  chamber- 
Stamford,  lain,  ordaining  the  latter  master  and  worker  of  the  moneys  of  gold  and 
silver  and  keeper  of  the  ^  eschaunge  and  outechaunge '  in  the  Tower  of 
London  in  England  and  Ireland  and  the  town  and  marches  of  Calais.  He 
shall  make  three  kinds  of  gold  money,  one  piece  '  rennyng  for  Ss.  4d.  ster- 
ling '  which  shall  be  called  the  noble  of  gold,  of  which  there  shall  be  50  in 
the  pound  of  the  weight  of  the  Tower,  and  pieces  of  4s.  2d,  and  2s.  Id, 
sterling  in  like  manner  ;  and  every  pound  weight  of  the  Tower  of  the  said 
moneys  shall  be  worth  20/.  I6s,  Sd,  and  shall  be  of  23  carats  3^  grains  fine  : 
of  the  which  moneys  the  king  shall  have  of  every  pound  weight  50^.,  whereof 
the  warden,  controller,  clipper  of  the  irons  and  clerk  of  the  coins  shall  have 
their  fees  at  the  hands  of  the  warden,  and  the  said  master  shall  take  for  his 
^forking  of  the  coins  and  expenses  of  every  pound  weight  I2d,  and  for  the 
lack  of  every  pound  lOd.  only  and  the  moneyers  shall  take  for  their  labour 
and  waste  6^.  of  every  pound  only,  and  there  shall  remain  to  the  merchant 
of  every  pound  of  fine  gold  and  clean  which  he  putteth  to  coin  18/.  6s:  Sd, 
by  number.  The  master  shall  be  allowed  at  the  assay  a  variation  of  the 
alloy  of  the  eighth  part  of  a  carat  in  the  pound,  to  be  called  *  remedye,'  but 
otherwise  shall  melt  and  reforge  defective  money  at  his  own  cost.  He  shall 
make  five  kinds  of  silver  money,  a  pound  of  which  shall  be  worth  3Ts,  Gc/., 
viz.  a  piece  of  4d.  which  shall  be  called  a  *  grote,'  of  which  there  shall  be 
1 12^  in  the  pound  aforesaid,  and  pieces  of  half  a  '  grote,'  a  penny  called  a 
*  sterling,'  a  halfpenny  and  a  farthing  in  like  manner ;  and  every  pound  of 
silver  money  shall  weigh  1 1  ounces  2d,  of  sterlings  of  the  weight  of  fine  silver 
and  18  pennyweights  of  alloy,  every  penny  containing  24  grains.  Of 
every  such  pound,  tne  king  shall  have  4s,  6d,,  whereof  the  inaster  shall  have 
over  the  wages  of  the  warden,  clipper  of  the  irons  and  other  officers  aforesaid 
clearly  6d,  by  number,  and  for  the  lack  of  every  pound  2d.  and  the  moneyers 
shall  have  for  plating,  blanching,  coining  and  waste  6fif.,  and  there  shall 
remain  to  the  merchant  S3s,  The  *  rem<Sye  *  shall  be  2d,  weight  in  every 
pound.     Before  issue  of  the  whole  sum  made  a  noble's  value  in  every  10 


4  EDWARD  IV.— Pabt  IL  371 


1464.  Membranes  16  and  15— con^. 

pounds  of  gold  and  28.  value  in  every  100  pounds  of  silver,  shall  be  put  in 
a  box  sealed  with  the  seals  of  the  warden,  master  and  controller  and  shut 
with  three  keys  of  which  they  each  shall  have  one,  and  the  said  box  shall 
be  put  in  a  coffer  for  safe  keeping  and  opened  every  three  months  upon 
reasonable  warning  before  certain  lords  of  the  council  in  the  presence  of  the 
warden  and  master,  at  Westminster,  and  assay  made  by  fire  or  touch. 
The  master  shall  make  a  privy  mark  upon  all  moneys  made  by  him  and 
shall  take  gravers  to  grave  the  irons  and  the  irons  when  they  be  clipped 
shall  be  delivered  to  the  warden,  and  the  clipper  of  the  irons  shall  not 
clip  elsewhere  but  in  one  house  within  the  Tower.  He  shall  x^eceive 
gold  and  silver  brought  to  the  Tower  at  its  true  value,  and  in  case  of  doubt 
the  king's  assayers  shall  determine  the  truth,  for  which  two  stones  called 
'  touchez '  and  also  '  nedlez '  of  gold  shall  be  provided,  and  the  balances 
and  weights  shall  be  amended  from  time  to  time.  No  money  or  bullion 
shall  be  taken  out  of  the  realm,  except  by  special  leave  of  the  king,  and  no 
false  or  counterfeit  money  brought  in  under  pain  of  forfeiture.  The  king 
confirms  to  the  master  and  workers  and  other  officers  of  the  said  mints  all 
the  charters  granted  to  the  moneyers,  who  shall  be  ready  to  do  their  work 
at  all  times,  and  the  master  shall  have  all  liberties  and  franchises  as  is 
contained  in  a  patent  made  6  August,  1  Edward  IV.  to  the  master  and 
workers  of  the  mint  of  Ireland,  except  that  the  irons  shall  be  graven  within 
the  Tower  always  keeping  the  print  with  a  *  scripture  *  to  teU  where  the 
moneys  be  made  as  it  is  in  all  other  places.  And  the  said  lord  Hastings  is 
ordained  master  of  the  ^  eschaunges  and  outchaunges '  in  England,  Ireland 
and  Calais  to  be  held  in  open  places  and  high  streets  and  shall  pay  for  such 
*'  eschaunge '  good  and  true  money,  and  shall  bring  all  the  gold  and  silver 
that  he  receives  into  the  Tower  to  be  made  into  money.  Ajid  no  person 
shall  hold  common  exchange,  privy  or  '  appert,'  on  pain  of  the  forfeiture 
contained  in  the  statute  ot  25  Edward  HI.  of  which  forfeiture  the  said  mas- 
ter shall  have  \2d,  in  the  pound.  And  for  the  performance  of  the  covenants 
aforesaid  the  said  master  has  made  oath  in  Chiuicery  and  has  found  borrows 
in  100/.  each,  viz.  Balph  Hastynges  of  Kerby,  co.  Leicester,  *  squyer,' 
Averay  Corneburght, '  squyer,'  William  Stephens  of  London, '  gentilman,' 
Edmund  Shawe,  Eobert  Hill,  <  goldsmythez,'  Robert  Broune,  '  iremonger,' 
and  Hugh  Brice,  *  goldesmyth,  citizens  of  London.    English  By  p.s. 

Membrane  15 — eofi^. 

Dec.  1.  Grant  to  Thomas  Burgh,  knight,  and  the  heirs  male  of  his  body  of  the 

Westminster,  manors  of  Crofte,  Thorpe,  Golthawe  or  Oolthaugh,  and  Skelynghoup  or 
Skeldynghope  with  their  members  and  the  manors  of  Faldjmgworth  and 
Sotby,  all  in  the  county  of  Lincoln,  late  of  John  Tailboys,  esquire,  John  Lang- 
•  holme,  William  Coot,  Walter  Tailboys  and  others  to  the  use  of  William  Tailboys 
late  of  Southkyme,  knight,  and  all  lands  and  possessions  in  Crofte,  Thorp, 
Galthawe  or  Qolthaugh,  Skellynghoupe,  Faldyngworth,  Sotby,  Ingolmeles, 
Wynthorpe,  Bray  toft,  Irby,  Burgh  in  the  Merssh,  Skegneys,  Waynflete, 
Friskeney,  Feresby  by  Braytof  t,  Fristhorpe,  Wykenbv,  Bolyngton,  Langton, 
Wragby,  Carlton"  PaneD,  Scalby,  Croxby,  Hakthorpe,  Northikham, 
Southikham,  Bultam  and  Bracebigge  or  elsewhere  in  the  said  county  late 
of  the  said  William  Tailboys  or  of  anyone  else  to  his  use,  in  the  king's  hands 
by  reason  of  an  act  in  Parliament  at  Westminster,  4  November,  1 
Edward  IV.  and  the  manor  of  Colham  Gardyn  with  its  members,  6&  acres 
of  land,  18  acres  of  pasture  and  6  acres  of  meadow  in  Colham  aforesaid, 
8  acres  of  meadow  called  Ruddesworth  Medowe  vnthin  the  parish  of  Stan- 
weU,  two  messuages  or  tenements,  80  acres  of  land  and  10  acres  of  pasture 
in  Westdrayton  and  two  messuages  or  tenements,  16  acres  of  land  and  4  acres 
of  meadow  in  Woxbrigge,  all  in  the  county  of  Middlesex,  late  of  William 
W^aynsford  or  Wandesford  late  of  London,  esquire,  in  the  king's  hands  by 

▲  A  2 


372  CAJiENDAE  OF  PATENT  ROLLS. 


X464.  Membrane  15— con/. 

virtue  of  the  act  afoi'esud,  to  hold  with  knights'  fees,  adyowsons,  courts  leet, 
views  of  frank-pledge,  parks,  warrens,  chaces,  fairs,  markets  and  all  other 
profits  bj  the  service  of  one  knight's  fee,  and  all  issues  of  the  same  from 
4  March,  1  Edward  IV.  By  p.s. 

1465. 

Feb  5.  Grant  to  Richard  Herbert,  knight,  and  the  heirs  male  of  his  body  of  the 

Westminster,  manors  of  Grove,  Radenore,  Mookas,  Brutescourt,  Throuckeston,  Westhide, 
Egelton,  Redehire,  Howton  and  Wormeton  Tirell,  co.  Hereford,  19  mes- 
suages, 180  acres  of  land,  44  acres  of  meadow  and  80  acres  of  pasture  in 
Hereford,  Dorston,  Dewchurch,  Deweswall  and  Moraston,  co.  Hereford,  and 
the  manors  of  Lassyngton  or  Lastyngton,  Netherley  and  Eg^eworth,  co. 
Gloucester,  late  of  John  Skjdemore  or  Scudamoure,  knight,  in  the  king's 
hands  by  reason  of  his  forfeiture  and  by  virtue  of  an  act  in  Parliament  at 
Westminster,  4  November,  1  Edward  IV.  and  the  manor  of  Monyngton  in 
Stradell  Vale,  a  moiety  of  the  manor  of  Eton  Tregoys,  and  10  messuages,  a 
fulling  mill,  100  acres  of  land,  8  acres  of  meadow  and  an  acre  of  wood  in 
Dorston,  Turneston,  Vouchirche,  Petirchirche,  Aunebury  and  Bromeyerd, 
all  in  the  county  of  Hereford,  and  a  messuage,  24  acres  of  land,  2  acres  of 
meadow  and  an  acre  of  wood  in  Ewyas  Lacy  in  the  march  of  Wales  of  the 
said  county  adjacent,  late  of  Thomas  FitzHarry  late  of  Hereford,  esquire, 
in  the  king's  hands  by  reason  of  his  forfeiture  and  by  virtue  of  the  act 
aforesaid,  with  franchises,  liberties,  jurisdictions,  leets,  courts,  views  of 
frank-pledge,  hundreds,  fairs,  markets,  parks,  stews,  warrens,  knights'  fees, 
rents,  services,  farms,  advowsons  and  other  appurtenances,  to  hold  by  the 
same  rents  and  services  as  they  were  held  by  before  4  March,  1  Edward 
lY.  with  all  issues  from  that  date.  By  p.s. 

lAOA  Membrane  14. 

Nov.  23.  Grant  to  Thomas  Fulford,  knight,  and  his  heirs  and  assigns  of  the  lord- 

Westminster,  ship  and  manor  of  Marwynchurch,  co.  Cornwall,  the  reversion  of  the 
lordship  and  manor  of  Great  Morton  with  its  members,  co.  Cornwall,  and 
of  all  messuages,  lands,  rents  and  services  in  Westputford  and  Bukkyssh, 
CO.  Devon,  which  Elizabeth  late  the  wife  of  Baldwin  Fulford,  knight, 
holds  to  herself  and  the  heirs  of  their  bodies,  the  reversion  of  the  manors  of 
Durneford,  Hokehatte  and  Storigge,  co.  Devon,  which  Robert  Burton  holds 
for  life,  the  reversion  of  all  messuages,  lands,  rents  and  services  in  Asshbary, 
Donsland,  Combe,  Wigdon  and  Elake,  co.  Devon,  which  William  Cary  and 
Alice  his  wife  hold  in  tail,  all  messuages,  lands  and  possessions  in  West* 
sprayhele,  Lotterigge,  Tekebeare,  Bowton,  Strattcm,  Efford,  Stonlond, 
Bythestrond,  Coletou,  Pynchelegh,  Ketelegh,  Marshallislond,  Crabhay, 
Borecote,  Pennalyn,  Cardinan,  Weke  St.  Marie,  Braddorigge  and  Bename, 
CO.  Cornwall,  the  third  part  of  the  manor  of  Parkam,  co.  Devon,  and  all 
messuages,  lands  and  possessions  in  Widefeld,  Meldon,  Yoldych,  Folle, 
Okehampton,  Madford,  Westbowdon,  CokiswiU,  Asbedde,  Rouborugh, 
Boryngton,  Abbettesham,  Hallisbury,  Cliffordcorbyn,  Langlegh,  Exeter, 
Melhuwis,  Fulford,  Lustenesdon,  Smythcote,  Furslegh,  Owelhole,  Wisdoms, 
Westwatirlond,  Spicer,  Rubhay,  Ferantes,  Brokedon,  Dunsford,  Crokkerne- 
will,  Lampford,  Haske,  Parkerigge,  Merssh,  Belston,  Deakisbeare,  Huddes- 
don,  Goldeworthy,  Hertlond,  Welcombe,  Bradworthy,  Litelwere,  Brixton, 
Bulkeworthy,  Mattokiswill,  Moddelegh,  Holecombe,  the  park  of  Fulford, 
Beuworthy,  Braddeston,  Danyelslond,  and  Eston,  co.  Devon,  with  advow- 
sons, knights'  fees,  franchises,  liberties,  hundreds,  courts  leet,  views  of 
frank-pledge,  fairs,  markets,  warrens,  with  all  profits,  in  the  king's  handa 
by  the  forfeiture  of  Baldwin  Fulford,  knight,  his  father,  whose  heir  he  is, 
and  by  reason  [of  an  act  of  Parliament  at  Westminster,  4  November,  1 
Edward  IV.  By  K. 


4  EDWARD  IV.— Part  II. 


873 


1464. 

Nov.  23. 
WestmioBler. 


Nov.  8. 
Wycombe. 


Nov.  9. 
Wycombe. 


Nov.  9 

Wycombe. 


Membrane  14 — cont 

Grant  for  life  to  the  king's  servant  Nicholas  Gajnesford,  one  of  the 
ushers  of  the  king's  chamber,  of  the  offices  of  keeping  the  king's  park  and 
warren  of  Odiam  with  wages  of  3d,  dailj,  viz.  2d.  for  the  custodj  of  the 
park,  and  Id.  for  the  custody  of  the  waiTen  as  allowed  in  the  Great  Roll  of 
2  Richard  II.  to  William  Frest  in  the  debit  of  Bernard  Brocas,  knight,  out  of 
the  issues  of  the  lordship  or  manor  of  Odiam  at  the  hands  of  the  bailiffs  or 
farmers  or  other  occupiers  of  the  same  or  the  sheriff  of  the  county  of 
Southampton,  with  all  other  profits,  in  lieu  of  a  grant  to  him  of  the  custody 
of  the  park  by  letters  patent  dated  22  April,  1  Edward  IV.  surrendered ; 
and  grant  to  him  of  10  marks  out  of  the  said  issues  as  regard,  because  he  has 
received  no  wages  since  the  said  22  April.  By  p.s. 

The  like  to  the  said  Nicholas  of  2J.  daily  from  the  said  issues  from  the 
said  22  April  as  wages  of  the  office  of  porter  of  the  king's  castle  of  Odyham, 
which  office  was  granted  to  him  for  life  by  letters  patent  of  that  date ;  as 
although  in  the  fourth  roU  of  Edward  I.  viz.  in  the  third  roll  of  the 
accounts  in  the  debit  of  Ralph  de  Sandwico,  2d.  daily  were  allowed  for  the 
for  the  wages  of  the  porter,  as  appears  by  record  in  the  Exchequer,  never- 
theless it  has  not  been  found  that  these  wages  have  been  allowed  since 
the  time  of  Edward  I.  and  so  he  fears  that  he  will  have  no  payment. 

ByK. 

Grant  to  Thomas,  bishop  of  Bath  and  Wells,  and  his  successors,  of  all 
fines,  ransoms,  amercements  and  forfeited  issues  from  the  denn  or  dean  and 
chapter  and  all  canons,  vicars  and  ministers  of  the  cathedral  church  of  St. 
Andrew,  Welbi,  the  prior  and  convent  and  monks  of  St.  Peter,  Bath,  and 
all  tenants  and  residents  on  the  lands,  possessions  and  fees  of  the  said 
bishop,  dean  and  chapter  and  prior  and  convent  before  the  king  in 
Chancery,  his  justices,  the  treasurer  and  barons  of  the  Exchequer,  the 
steward  .and  marshal  of  the  household  and  all  other  his  officers  and 
ministers.  He  and  his  tenants  and  residents  within  the  said  lands  and  fees 
shall  be  quit  of  toll  throughout  the  realm,  ai^  nothing  shall  be  taken  of 
their  corn  and  other  goods  by  the  officers  and  ministers  of  the  king  against 
their  will.  He  shall  have  goods  and  chattels  of  felons,  fugitives  and 
outlaws,  return  of  writs  and  summons,  and  dcodand  and  treasure  irove 
within  the  said  lands  and  fees,  and  no  sheriff,  bailiff  or  other  minister  of 
the  king  shall  enter  therein.  He  shall  have  cognisance  of  all  pleas  touching 
lands  and  tenements  and  all  pleas  of  debt,  trespass  and  other  contracts 
within  the  city  and  liberty  of  Wells,  and  full  power  to  hear  and  determine 
cases  within  the  same  as  have  the  justices  of  the  peace  or  of  labourers  in 
the  county  of  Somerset.  And  he  shall  have  all  goods  called  wreck  of  sea  on 
the  sea  coast  witliin  bis  hundred  of  Wynterstoke  and  full  power  to  hear  and 
determine  such  cases  within  the  said  hundred  and  the  liberty  of  the  same  as 
could  be  heard  and  determined  before  the  king's  admiral,  and  no  admiral  of 
the  king  shall  enter  therein  to  exercise  his  office  of  the  adhiiralty. 

By  p.s.  and  for  20s.  paid  in  the  hanaper. 

Vacated  because  elsexohere  below, 

I'ardou  to  John  Cheyne,  knight,  late  of  the  Isle  of  Shepey,  co.  Kent, 
late  sheriff  of  Kent,  late  purveyor  and  buyer  of  victuals  for  the  town  of 
Calais  and  the  marches  of  the  same  and  keeper  of  the  habiliments  of  war 
and  ordnance  of  the  same,  surveyor  of  the  works  of  repair  cf  the  bank 
called  Risebank  and  the  tower  there,  and  purveyor,  buyer,  receiver  and 
keeper  of  the  victuals,  artillery,  armour  and  equipment  for  the  defence  of 
the  town  of  Calais,  of  all  treasons,  felonies  and  other  offences  committed 
by  him  and  all  debts,  accounts  and  arrears  due  from  him.  By  ps. 

Pardon  to  Thomas  de  la  Mare  of  Aldermaston,  co.  Berks,  esquire,  one  of 
the  mainpernors  of  John  Curteys,  chaplain,  of  20/.  due  from  him  because 
he  did  not  bring  the  said  John  to  Oxford  before  Richard  Byngham  and 


374  CALENDAR  OP  PATENT  ROLLS. 


1464.  Membrane  14 — cont, 

Richard  Chok,  justices  of  assize  and  gaol  delivery  in  the  connty  of  Berksy  on 
a  certain  day,  as  appears  in  the  extract  of  amercements  forfeited  on  llonday 
after  St.  V^entine,  1  Edward  IV.  before  the  said  justices  delivered  at  the 
Exchequer  ;  as  the  said  John  died  before  the  said  (kty,  and  the  said  Thomas 
on  that  day  and  long  before  was  absent  on  the  king^s  business  beyond  seatt 
by  the  king*s  command,  and  so  could  not  appear  to  allege  the  said  death  of 
the  said  John.  By  K. 

Nov.  8.  Pardon  to  the  king's  servant  Christopher  Worsley,  esquire,  and  Joan 

Wycombe,     late  the  wife  of  Edward  Broke,  knight,  lord  of  Cobham,  tenant  in  chief,  for 

their  trespass  in  intermarrying  without  lience.  By  K. 


Mbmbbanb  13. 

March  15.  General  pardon  to  John  Smyth  at  the  Birge  late  of  Saham,  co.  Cambridge, 
Westminster.  <  husbondman,'  John  Derby  son  of  William  Derby  late  of  the  same,'  husbond- 
man,'  Thomas  Reeve  the  elder  late  of  the  same,  ^  husbondman/  William 
Makrowe,  late  of  the  same, '  husbondman/  John  Reyner  late  of  the  same, 
'  smyth/  Simon  Gore,  late  of  the  same,  ^  faK)cher,'  John  Wythe  late  of  the 
same, '  husbondman/  John  Richeman  late  of  the  same, '  taillour,'  William 
Palfryman  late  of  the  same,  *  husbondman,'  Andrew  Tebaude  late  of  the 
same,  ^  husbondman,'  Thomas  Coke  late  of  the  same, '  husbondman,'  Henry 
Beche  late  of  the  same,  ^  husbondman,'  Richard  Makrowe  or  Makerowe 
late  of  the  same, '  husbondman/  John  Keverell  late  of  the  same, '  carpynter,' 
John  Hunden,  late  of  the  same, '  taillour/  John  Overmedowe,  late  of  the 
same,  *  husbondman/  William  Spore  late  of  the  same,  ^  husbondman,'  John 
Makerowe  late  of  the  same,  '  husbondman/  Ralph  Phyppe  late  of  the  same, 
'  husbondman,'  William  Hunden  late  of  the  same,  '  husbondman/  Thomas 
Dolyngeham  late  of  Wykyn,  co.  Cambridge,  *  bocher,'  Thomas  Dygry ve  of 
Ely,  CO.  Cambridge,  *■  husbondman,'  William  Hay  late  of  Ely, '  laborer/ 
John  Smyth  atte  Hill  late  of  Saham  aforesaid, '  husbondman,'  G^rge  Ker 
late  of  Ely,  '  husbondman/  John  Mower  the  younger  late  of  the  same, 
'  taillour/  John  Troys  late  of  the  same, '  taillour,'  Clement  Roos  late  of  the 
same, '  husbondman,'  John  Whithed  late  of  the  same,  '  wever/  John  Boogge 
late  of  the  same,  Myer/  Alan  Barker  late  of  the  same,  'laborer/  Henry 
B$irker,  late  of  the  same,  '  barker,'  Walter  Wever  late  of  the  same, 
'  wever,'  John  Browne  late  of  the  same, '  laborer/  William  Rogers  late  of 
the  same, '  brewer,'  Thomas  Roger  late  of  the  same, '  laborer,'  William 
Claybum  late  of  the  same,  'wever,'  John  Dye^ryve  late  of  the  same, 
*  laborer/  John  Sly  late  of  Saham, '  clerk,*  John  Welyoe  or  Welles  late  of 
Sneylewell,  co.  Cambridge,  'husbondman,'  William  Crosse  late  of  Fordham, 
CO.  Cambridge, '  husbondman,'  John  Gore  late  of  the  same, '  husbondman/ 
Thomas  Gore  late  of  the  same, '  laborer,'  John  Wake,  late  of  the  same,  '  hus- 
bondman,' and  Thomas  Palmer,  late  of  Ely, '  parieshclerk.'  By  p.s. 

April  13.         Grant  for  life  to  John  Pilkyngton,  one  of  the  esquires  of  the  body,  of  the 

Westminster,   office  of  constable  of  the  king's  castle  of  Wykelowe  in  Ireland,  with  the 

accustomed  wagee  of  the  office  and  of  the  soldiers  in  the  castle  of  the  issues 

of  the  lordship  or  manor  of  Newcastle  by  Lyouns  in  Ireland  and  of  the  fee 

farm  of  Chapelizod,  Lexlepe  and  Salmon  Leap.  By  p.s. 

April  14.        Grant  for  life  to  William  Elys,  for  his  good  service  to  the  king  in  the 
Westminster,  marches  of  Scotland,  of  the  custody  of  the  passage  of  the  water  of  Sulwath 
there  with  the  accustomed  fees,  formerly  granted  for  life  to  Richard 
Coldale  by  letters  patent  dated  2  November,  1  Edward  IV.  surrendered. 

By  p.s. 

April  15.        Licence  for  Laurence,  bishop  of  Durham,  to  go  about  his  own  business 

Westminster,  and  dwell  where  he  pleases  within  the  realm  for  three  years  and  be  excused 

from  attendance  in  FarUament  or  council  for  that  time  \_Fcedera.'\      By  p.s. 


4  EDWARD  IV.— Pakt  II.  875 


1464,  Membrane  13 — cent. 

April  17.        Mandate  to  John  Fogge,  knight,  treasurer  of  the  household,  John  Scotte, 

Westminster,   knight,  controller  of  the  household,  and  Thomas  Colte  to  permit  Laurence 

,  Bothe,  bishop  of  Durham,  to  enter  int<f  and  occupy  the  temporalities  of  his 

I  bishopric,  the  custody  of  which  was  granted  to  them  by  letters  patent 

dated  28  December,  2  Edward  IV.  [Fcedera,']     By  p.s. 

A  pril  27.         Gteneral  pardon  to  John  Lamport  late  of  Sundrissh,  co.  Kent,  '  draper,' 
Westminster,  of  all  offences  committed  by  him  before  25  April.  By  p.s. 

The  like  to  Robert  Chestre  late  of  Sundry sbh,  co.  Kent^  *  corveser.' 

By  p.8. 

May  7.  Gbwnt  for  life  to  the  king's  servitor  John  Kendale  of  the  office  of  one  of 

Westminster,  the  rangers  within  the  king's  forest  of  Dene,  co.  Gloucester,  receiving  fees 

as  in  the  time  of  Edward  III.  from  the  issues  of  the  county  of  Gloucester, 

with  all  other  profits.  By  p.s. 

March  18.        Pardon   to  John   Flegge  of  Herleford,  co.   Buckingham,  esquire,  late 
Westminster,  escheator    in   the    counties    of   Bedford    and   Buckingham,   of   all    fines, 
amercements,  issues,  debts,  accounts  and  arrears  due  from  him  to  the  king 
or  his  progenitors  or  other  late  kings  before  Michaelmas,  3  Edward  IV. 

By  p.s« 

Mbmbranb  12. 

Jane  12.         Inspeximus  and  confirmation  to  the  prior  and  monks  of  the  church  of 
York.        Holy  Trinity,  York,  of  the  following  :— 

1.  A  charter  of  Stephen  as  follows : — 

S,  rex  Anglorum  archiepiscapo  Eboracensi  eijfisticiariis  et  baronibus 
et  vicecomitUms  et  ministris  et  dvibus  Eboraciet  omnibus  Jidelibus 
suis  de  EboracUira  scUutem,  Sciatis  me  dedisse  et  concessisse 
ecelesie  Sancte  Trinitatis  Eboracensi  et  monachis  ejusdem  ecclesie 
in  perpetuam  elemosinam  capellam  illam  guam  Rogertts  presbiter 
fundavit  ad  crucem  lapideam  extra  portam  occidentalem  civitatiSf 
cum  terris  et  aliis  pertinentiis  eiusdem  capelle,  Quare  volo  et 
precipio  quod  ecclesia  predict  a  et  monachi  capellam  illam  et  per- 
tinencias  ejus  bene  et  tn  pace  et  libere  et  quiete  teneant^  solutam  et 
quietam  [a6]  omni  seculari  exactione  et  servicio,  ea  conditione  quod 
faciant  sine  intermissione  ibi  fieri  divinum  officium,  Testibus 
Ricardo  de  Canvill  et  Rogero  de  Buissei,  apud  Oxeneford. 

2.  A  charter  of  John  dated  at  Tours,  15  June,  granting  that  they  and 

their  men,  horses  and  possessions  should  be  quit  of  toll,  passage  and 
pontage. 

3.  Letters  patent  dated  25  November,  30  Edward  III.  {^Moneuticony"] 

inspecting  and  confirming  to  John  de  Chosiaco,  then  prior,  and  the 
convent  the  following : — 

(1.)  A  charter  of  Henry  [I.]  dated  at  York. 

(2.)  A  charter  of  Henry  [IL]  dated  at  Tours. 

4.  A  charter  of  Stephen  as  follows  ^— 

S.  rex  Anglorum  Thurstino  archiepiscope  et  j'usticiarHs  et  vice- 
comitibus  et  baronibus  et  burgensibus  et  fiddibus  suis  Francis  et 
Anglis  de  Eboraciscira  saltUem.  Sciatis  quia  concedo  sancte 
Trinitati  et  monachis  de  Majori  Monasterio  quoquo  anno  quietos 
decern  et  octo  denarios  quos  dabant  per  annum  de  gablo  et  cur- 
tillagio  suo  et  de  tofiis  suis.  Teste  Roberto  de  Feer,  apud 
Eboracum. 

5.  A  charter  of  Stephen  as  follows : — 

S.  rex  Anglorum  justiciariis  vicecomitihus  et  dvibus  et  ministris 
Eboraci  scdutem.  Sciatis  me  coticessisse  et  dedisse  imperpetuam 
elemosinam  deo  et  capelle  Sancti  Jacobi  que  est  extra  portam 
dvitatis  et  clericis  ibidem  deo  servientibus  terram  illam  in  qua 


376  CALENDAR  OF  PATENT  ROLLS. 


1464«  Membrane  12 — cofiU 

furce  latronum  stare  solenty  gut  est  de  dominio  tneo,  Quare  volo 
etfirmiter  precipio  quod  predicta  capella  et  clerici  terram  illam 
bene  et  in  pkce  et  quiete  teneant  sicut  elemosinam  meam.  Testibus 
Radulpho  de  Haia  et  AsthUl  Brun  et  Erunfilio  suo  et  Hugone 
JUio  Emme  et  Hugone  JUio  Eoberti,  apud  Eboracum, 

6.  Letters  patent  of  Stephen  as  follows : — 

S.  rex  Anglorum  archieptscopo  Eboracensi  justidariis  vicecomitibus 
baronibus  et  omnibus  fidelibus  suis  de  Ebqrascire  et  de  Lincolesdre^ 
salutem.  Sciatis  me  concessisse  deo  et  ecclesie  sancte  TrinUatis 
de  Eboraco  et  monachis  in  ea  deo  servientibus  omnes  tenuarias 
suas  in  elemosinis  et  terris  et  dedmis  et  hominibus  et  ecclesiis  et 
omnibus  aliis  ben^ciis  que  Radulphus  Paganellu^  et  heredes  sui 
vel  alii  fideles  dederunt  et  concesserunt  illi  ecclesie  et  ubicumque 
Tnonachi  habent  terram  sint  quieti  et  liberi  de  hundres  et  de 
toapentaches  et  ab  omni  consuetudine^  et  nominatim  Cunnisihorp 
et  Stretonam  et  quicquid  adjacent  et  terram  que  est  extra  portam 
civitatis  et  terram  de  Byiftam  quam  monachi  tenent^  et  unam 
carucatam  terre  in  BardeUn^  et  unam  carucatam  terre  et  dimidiam 
et  unam  bovatam  apud  domos  Dreng^  et  duas  carucatas  terre  et 
dimidiam  in  Moncalonam  et  Odelsaia  quatuordecim  bovatas 
terre.  Insuper  concedo  cis  ecclesiam  de  Moncatona  et  ecclesiam 
de  LedeSy  cum  terris  et  decimis  omnibusque  beneficiis  sibi  pertinen* 
iibuSf  et  ecclesiam  de  Adela  cum  omnibus  sibi  adjacendis,  decimam 
etiam  aule  in  Hotona^  et  decimam  aule  de  Trinescho^  et  decimam 
aule  de  Bilohamj  et  decimam  aule  de  Neuthona  super  Usam^  et 
decimam  aule  de  Bartona  in  Holdeliih^  et  duas  bovatas  terre  in 
eadem  villa,  et  decimam  aule  in  Neuthona  super  Wald,  et  medie- 
tatem  ecclesie  de  Crambum  que  spectat  ad  feodum  Radulphi 
Paganelli  cum  decimis  sibi  adjacentibus  in  Lincolnesdra, 
decimam  aule  de  Rochesby  et  decimam  aule  de  Bertona  et 
decimam  aule  de  Tanelesby  que  spectant  ad  feodum  Radulphi 
Paganelliy  et  ecclesiam  de  Rasne  solutam  et  quietam,  et  decimam 
aule  de  Essebi  cum  omnibus  sibi  pertinentibus,  et  decimam  aule 
de  Scallebi  et  molendinum  de  Tanelesbi,  tot  am  etiam  decimam 
aule  de  Hamehaniy  libere  et  quiete.  Et  ideo  volo  et  precipio 
quod  bene  et  in  pace  et  libere  teneant  intra  civitatem  et  extra 
civitatem  et  in  omnibus  rebus,  cum  soca  et  saca  et  tol  et  tern  et 
infangentef  et  cum  omnibus  libertatibus  illi  ecclesie  pertinentibus 
in  perpetuam  elemosinam,  sicut  carta  Willelmi  regis  avi  mei  et 
regis  Henrici  avunculi  mei  testantur,  Testibus  Roberto  de  Curd 
et  Roberto  de  Veer  et  Ricardo  de  Curd  et  Roberto  de  Brus,  apud 
Eboracum, 

7.  A  charter  of  Henry  II.  as  follows : — 

H,  dei  gratia  rex  Anglie,  dux  Normannie  et  Aquitanie  et  comes 
Andegavie  archiepiscopis  episcopis  abbatibus  comitibus  baronibus 
justidariis  vicecomitibus  ballivis  et  omnibus  ministris  et  fidelibus 
suis  totias  Anglie  et  Normannie,  salutem.     Sdatis  me  concessisse 
et  hac  presenti  carta  mea  confirma^se  deo  et  ecclesie  sancte 
Trinitatis  Eboracensi  et  monachis  de  Majori  Monasterio  ibidem 
deo  servientibus  omnes  eccUsias  et  capellas  et  decimas  et  homines 
et  terras  quas  Radulphus  Paganellus  et  Jordanus  et  Alexander 
filii  dus  et  omnes  alii  fideles  mei  deo  et  predicie  ecclesie  Sancte 
Trinitatis  Eboracensi  et  monachis  in  elemosinam  dederunt,  secun- 
dum quod  in  cartis  predicti  Radulphi  et  aliorum  donatorum  con- 
tinetur,  ipsam  scilicet  ecclesiam  t^'ancte  Trinitatis  et  terras  suas  extra 
portam  de  Michelith  que  jacent  in  occidentalem  partem  ipsius 
dvitatis,  cum  omnibus  pertinentiis  suis  et  cum  omnibus  libertatibus 
et  liberis  consuetudinibus  ddem  ecclesie  pertinentibus  in  eadem 


4  EDWABD  IV.— Part  II.  377 


]^4Q4  Membrane  12 — cani, 

civitate^  ecclesiam  Sancie  Helene  de  FiAergate  et  guecumque  ad 
eandem  ecclesiam  pertinent  ante  eandem  ecclesiam,  toftum  unius 
diacani  in  Lincofniensi  sira,  ecclesiam  de  Ymam  cum  omnibus 
pertinentiis  suis  et  duos  partes  decimarum  de  dominio  ejusdetn 
ville  et  duos  partes  omnium  decimarum  de  dotninicis  de  Skallebi 
et  de  Askebi  de  feodo  Odonis  Tuschet,  et  duos  partes  omnium 
decimarum  de  dominico  de  Tanelesby  et  molendinum  ejusdem 
ville  de  feodo  Radulphi  de  Rolliaco,  ecclesiam  de  Westrasen  cum 
omnibus  pertinentiis  et  decimas  Hanle,  ecclesiam  de  Berekton  cum 
omnibus  pertinentiis  suis  et  duas  partes  omnium  decimarum  de 
dominico  ejusdem  ville  in  Eboracensi  scira,  unam  carrueatam 
terre  in  Bardettna^  ecclesiam  de  Neuton  et  quicguid  ad  earn 
ecclesiam  pertinet  et  decimas  de  dominico  eiusdem  ville,  ecclesiam 
de  Munketon  cum  omnibus  pertinentiis  suis  et  unam  carucatam 
terre  et  dimidiam  in  eadem  villa,  et  quatuordecim  bovatas  terre 
in  Helelesheia,  ecclesiam  de  I^edes  cum  terris  suis  et  cum  omnibus 
aliis  pertinentiis  suis  et  cum  omnibus  libertatibus  et  liberis 
consuetudinibus  eidem  ecclesie  pertinentibus  et  duas  carucdtcu 
terre  in  eadem  villa  et  liberam  pasturam  bestiis  suis,  sicut  bestiis 
domini  ipsius  ville,  totam  etiam  rillam  de  Stretton  cum  omnibus 
pertinentiis  suis,  ecclesiam  de  Hoton  cum  omnibus  pertinentiis 
suis  et  duas  partes  omnium  decimarum  de  dominico  eiusdem 
ville,  ecclesiam  Sancte  Helene  de  Thimescogh  et  quicquid 
ad  cam  ecclesiam  pertinet,  ecclesiam  Sancti  Johannis  de  Adele 
cum  om  iibus  pertinentiis  suis  et  unam  carucatam  terre  in  eadem 
villa,  et  decimas  de  Ardington  et  omnium  villarum  que  eidem 
ecclesie  adjacent,  ecclesiam  de  Crambum  et  quicquid  ad  illam 
pertinet,  ecclesiam  de  Barton  in  Rydale  cum  omnibus  pertinentiis 
et  duas  partes  omnium  decimarum  de  dominico  eiusdem  ville, 
decimas  etiam  de  Fademora  ex  dono  Jordani  PaineU  filii  ipsius 
Radulphi,  villam  de  Kinnerthorp  totam  et  integram  cum  otnnibus 
pertinentiis  suis  sicut  carta  ipsius  testatur  et  duas  partes  omnium 
decimarum  de  dominico  de  Neuton  super  Wald  ex  dono  Nigelli 
de  Albeni,  decimam  molendinorum  de  ccutello  Eboraci  sicut  carta 
Rogeri  de  Mubrai  testatur  et  in  privilegio  Rogeri  archiepiscopi 
continetur  et  nominatim  terram  que  est  extra  portam  civitatis  et 
dimidiam  terram  de  Bitham  ex  dono  Alexandri  Paganelli  et 
Agnetis  uxoris  eius,  quendam  locum  in  netnore  de  Branham  que 
Hedleia  vocatur  cum  bosco  et  terris  et  aliis  pertinentiis  eius  ex 
dono  Hamelin  de  Rye,  alium  quendam  locum  qui  Horninges  et 
Hewid  dicitur  secundum  antiquos  circuitus  sepium,  sicut  in  carta 
ipsius  continetur,  et  communitatem  et  immunitionem  in  bosco  et  m 
piano  et  a  Pentecoste  usque  ad  festum  sancti  Martini,  unam 
carram  ad  prqficuum  fratrum  .ex  dono  Willelmi  JUii  Geroldi, 
quendam  alium  locum  qui  Swinesgarth  vocatur  cum  bosco  et 
terra  et  aliis  pertinentiis  suis.  Hec  autem  omnia  concede  et 
confirmo  predicte  ecclesie  et  monachis  Majoris  Monasterii  qui 
habitant  tn  predicto  monasterio  Sancte  TVinitatis  Eboracensi  in 
puram  ct  perpetuam  elemosinam,  pro  salute  anime  mee  et  patris 
mei  et  pro  anima  regis  Henrici  avi  mei  et  Matildis  Inperatricis, 
matris  mee,  et  omnium  filiorum  et  antecessorum  meorum,  cum 
omnibus  libertatibus  et  liberis  consuetudinibus  infra  burgum  et 
extra  cum  socca  et  sacca  et  tol  et  them  et  infangenthef  et 
hamsocne  et  cum  eisdem  consuetudinibus  quas  habet  abbaciaSancte 
Marie  Eboracensis.  Preterea  concedo  et  confirmo  ecclesie  Sancte 
Trinitatis  Eboracensi  et  mancu^his  ecclesiam  Omnium  Sanctorum  in 
Nothstrete  cum  omnibus  pertinentiis  suis.  Volo  etiam  etjirmiter 
prenpio  quod  ipsi  monachi  et  homines  sui  liberi  sint  et  quieti  ab 


378  CALENDAR  OF  PATENT  BOLLS. 


1464.  Membrane  12 — cont, 

omni  scotto  et  gilledo  et  omnibus  auxiliis  regum^  vicecomitum  et 
omnium  ministrorum  meorum  et  hisdagio  et  danegildo  et  theoloneo 
et  sires  et  hundredis  et  wapentctchis  et  exercitibus  et  placitis  et 
querelis  et  warda  et  wardpeni  et  bordehalpeni  et  in  omni  transitu 
viarum^  pontium  et  maris  et  per  omnes  terras  meas^  sicut  carta 
regis  Henrici  avi  mei  testatur.  Hits  testibus^  Hugone  Donolmense 
episcopo,  Rainaldo  Bathonnense  episcopo^  Stephano  de  Thurs' 
senescallo  de  Aungoud^  Roberto  comite  de  Legercestrcy  WUlelmo 
Marescallo,  Willelmo  de  Sancto  Johanne,  apud  TViallingford, 
[A.D.  1174-1189.]  For  2  marks  paid  in  the  hanaper. 

«lune  13.  G rant  to  the  king's  kinsman  John,  earl  of  Northumberland,  of  a  forfeited 
Middlcham.  ship  called  le  Antony  oi  Kyngeston  on  Hull  and  certain  merchandise  with 
which  Thomas  Patryngton  late  of  Kyngeston  on  Hull  and  John  Curtejs  of 
London,  '  stokfisshmonger,'  mth  other  merchants  unknown  loaded  it  to 
take  from  the  said  port  of  Kyngeston  on  Hull  to  a  place  in  Iceland  called 
Habneforth  or  Han  forth  contrary  U)  the  statute  in  Parliament  at  West- 
minster, 8  Henry  VI.  enacting  that  none  of  the  king's  subjects  should  enter 
any  lands,  territories,  islands  or  other  places  of  the  king  of  Denmark, 
Norway  and  Sweden  with  any  ship  or  shipment  of  merchandise  to  obtain 
fish  or  other  merchandise  within  die  islands  of  Finmark  and  Iceland  under 
penalty  of  forfeiture  and  imprisonment.  By  K« 

Membbanb  11. 

April  28.  Grant  for  life  to  Robert  Dauson  of  100«.  yearly  of  the  king's  alms  from 

WeBtminster.   Michaelmas  last  out  of  the  issues  of  the  county  of  Devon.  By  p.s^ 

May  3.  Grant  to  the  mayor  and  society  of  the  merchants  of  the  staple  of  the 

Westminster,  town  of  Calais,  in  full  satisfaction  of  the  sum  of  1,000  marks  lent  by  them 
to  the  king  and  delivered  at  the  receipt  of  the  Exchequer,  an  enrolment  of 
which  loan  shall  be  made  there,  that  they  or  their  factors  or  attorneys  may 
ship  as  many  sacks  or  bales  of  wool  aud  as  many  wool-fells  in  any  port  or 
ports  of  the  realm  and  take  the  same  to  Calais  quit  of  the  subsidy  granted 
by  Parliament  and  the  custom  at  the  rat«  of  40«.  on  each  sack  of  wool  and 
on  every  240  wool-fells  shipped  by  denizens  and  4  marks  on  the  like 
shipped  by  aliens  as  will  thus  satisfy  them  of  the  said  1,000  marks,  by 
indentures  to  be  made  with  the  collectors  of  the  said  customs  and  subsidies* 

By  p.8. 

April  21.  Inspeximus  and  confirmation  to  the  brethren  and  sisters  of  the  hospitals 
Westminster,  of  Northgate  and  Herbaldon  by  Canterbury  of  letters  patent  dated  11 
January,  8  Henry  VI.  inspecting  and  confirming  letters  patent  dated  14 
July,  1  Henry  Y.  inspecting  and  confirming  letters  patent  dated  6  Decem- 
ber, 1  Henry  IV.  inspecting  and  confirming  with  additions  letters  patent 
dated  28  January,  1  Richard  U.  inspecting  and  confirming  letters  patent 
dated  6  March,  45 *Ed ward  III.  exempting  them  from  certain  contributions 
in  furtherance  of  a  grant  by  letters  i>atent,  1  December,  9  Edward  III. 

ByK, 

April  30.  Revocation  of  protection,  with  clause  volumusy  for  one  year,  lately  granted 
Westminster,  by  letters  patent  to  John  Whitefote  of  Colchestre,  co.  Essex, '  marchaunt,' 
alias  o£  the  town  of  Calais, '  souldeour,'  staying  on  the  king's  service  in 
the  company  of  Walter  Blount,  knight,  treasurer  of  the  town  of  Calais,  on* 
the  safe-custody,  defence  and  victualliug  of  the  town  and  the  marches 
adjacent,  because  be  delays  at  Colchestre,  as  appears  by  certificate  of  the 
sheriff  of  Essex. 

1465. 

Feb.  28.         Grant  to  Ralph  Hethcote,  chaplain,  of  the  deanery  of  the  king's  college 

Westminster,  of  Tetenhalle,  co.  Stafford,  void  by  the  resignation  of  Richard  Well,  late 

dean.  By  p.8. 


4  EDWARD  IV.— Pabt  II.  379 


1464*  Mbmbranb  10. 

NoY.  16.         Licence,  for  46«.  Sd,  paid  in  the  hanaper,  for  John  Basset  son  and  heir 
Westmiiuter.    of  John  Basset  of  Chishill   to  grant  the  manor  of  Maskerellesbury,  co. 

Essex,  held  in  chief,  with  the  exception  of  an  acre  of  land  in  it,  to  Gresilda 
Hende  and  Walter  Wirtyil,  enquire,  and  their  heirs  and  assigns. 

1465. 

Jan.  14.         Grant  to  Thomas  Balsalle  of  the  prebend  of  Sjrescote  in  the  collegiate 

Westminster,  church  of  Tarn  worth,  in  the  diocese  of  Coventry  and  Lichfield,  void  by  the 

resignation  of  Robert  Slymbrigge,  late  prebendary.  By  K. 

l£uidate  in  pursuance  to  J.  bishop  of  Coventry  and  Lichfield. 

Mandate  in  pursuance  to  the  dean  and  chapter  of  the  said  collegiate 

church  of  St.  Mary,  Tamwortb. 

Jan.  22.  Presentation  of  William  Birde,  chaplain,  to  the  parish  church  of  All 

Westminster.   Saints  in  the  town  of  Dorchester,  in  the  diocese  of  Salisbury. 

1464. 

Dec.  2C.  Grant  to  John  Astley,  knight,  and  his  executors  and  assigns,  for   his 

Westminster,  more  speedy  deliverance  from  the  hands  of  the  king's  enemies  and  the 
dire  prisons  in  which  he  has  long  been  and  still  remains,  of  500  marks ' 
sterling  from  all  forfeitures  and  forfeited  goods  m  the  ports  of  the  city  of 
London  and  the  towns  of  Sandwich  and  Southamnton  and  in  the  counties 
of  Southampton,  Wilts,  Somerset,  Dorset,  Norfolk,  Suffolk,  Kent  and 
Middlesex,  at  the  hands  of  the  collectors  of  customs  and  subsidies,  cus- 
tomers, searchers  and  other  officers  and  of  the  sberiifs,  escheators,  and  other 
officers.  By  K. 

Dec.  8.  Whereas  the  king  lately  granted  to  his  servitors  John  Grey  and  David 

Westminster.  Chambley  10  marks  yearly  for  life  from  the  manor  of  Polatede  Halle  with 
appurtenances  lying  in  Bomham,  co.  Norfolk,  which  came  to  his  hands  by 
way  of  escheat,  he  now  grants  the  said  manor  to  his  esquire  William  Wade 
for  life,  for  the  good  service  of  the  latter  at  sea  and  at  Newcastle  on  Tyne, 
and  also  the  surplusage  of  the  manor  during  the  lives  of  the  said  John  and 
David.  By  p.s. 

Jan.  28.  Grant  to  the  king's  kinsman  Thomas  Bourcher,  one  of  his  sewers,  of  the 

Westminster,   office  of  marshal  of  the  marshalsea  in    the  King's  Bench,  the  grant  of 

which  belongs  to  the  king  by  the  death  of  his  kinsman  John,  duke  of 

Norfolk,  and  by  reason  of  the  minority  of  John,  son  and  heir  of  the  latter, 

to  hold  during  the  said  minority  with  all  accustomed  fees.  By  p.s. 

Jan.  25.  Licence,  for  7  marks  paid  in  the  hanaper»  for  John  Hampton,  esquire, 

Westminster,  and  Anne  his  wife  to  grant  their  manors  of  Kynefare  and  Storton  or  Store- 
ton,  CO.  StafiTord,  held  in  chief,  to  Humphrey  Stafford,  esquire,  Thomas 
Burdet,  esquire,  Thomas  Throkmerton,  esquire,  and  Humphrey  Salwaye, 
esquire,  and  their  heirs. 

Jan.  28.  Exemplification,  at  the  request  of  William  Laiurence  of  London,  *  vynter/ 
Westminster,  of  letters  patent  dated  1  October,  4  Edward  IV.  which  have  been  casually 
lost,  granting  safe-conduct  for  one  year  to  three  merchants  or  fewer  and 
their  factors,  attorneys  or  servants  coming  to  the  realm  of  England  or  other 
territories  of  the  king  with  a  ship  called  la  Marie  of  Bayonne  of  the  portage 
of  120  tuns  or  less,  of  which  Pelenant  Duhald^  Stephen  de  la  Regno  or 
Bartholomew  de  Chauda  is  master,  with  84.  mariners  and  four  boys 
(pagettis)  and  divers  goods  and  merchandise,  and  leturning  with  other 
goods  and  merchandise  not  belonging  to  the  staple  of  Calais. 

Membrane  9. 

Jan.  31.         Grant  to  Henry  Grene,  king*8  esquire,  of  100  marks  from  the  first  moneys 
Westminster,  from  the  issues  of  the  county  of  Northampton.  By  K. 


380  CALENDAR  OF  PATENT  ROLLS. 


1455,  Membrane  S^^n^nt. 

Jan.  2.  Mandate  to  the  escheator  in  the  counties  of  Northampton  and  Rutland 

Westminster,  for  the  restitution  of  the  temporalities  of  the  Benedictine  abbey  of  Thornej 

to  Dan  Thomas  Wjsbeche,  monk  of  the  house,  whose  election  as  abbot  of 

that  place  W.  bishop  of  Ely  has  confirmed,  and  whoae  fealty  the  king  has 

taken.  By  p.8. 

The  like  to  the  escheators  in  the  following  counties : — 

Cambridge  and  Huntingdon.  Hertford. 

Lincoln.  Norfolk. 

Bedford  and  Buckingham.  Warwick. 

Middlesex. 
Writ  de  intendendo  in  pursuance  io  the  tenants. 

Jan.  26.         Grant  for  life  to  Richard  de  Chestre,  for  his  good  service  to  the  king's 

Westminster,  father  and  the  king,  of  the  office  of '  la  Clownes '  in  the  king^s  lordship  of 

Hatfeld,  with  the  accustomed  fees  from  the  issues  of  the  lordship.     By  p.s. 

Feb.  5.  Presentation  of  William  Ingilton  to  the  parish  church  of  MiddOton,  in 

Westminster,  the  diocese  of  Lincoln. 

Feb.  6.  Pardon  to  Walter  Skull,  knight,  alicu  latp  sheriff  of  the  county  oi  Hereford, 

Westminster,  late  treasurer  of  the  household  of  Henry  YI.  alicu  late  sheriff  of  the  county 

of  Oxford,  of  all  treasons,  felonies  and  other  offences  committed  by  him  and 

all  penalties,  fines,  forfeitures,  issues,  debts^  accounts  and  arrears  due  from 

him  to  the  king.  By  K. 

Feb.  12.         Licence  for  the  prior  and  convent  of    the  monastery  of  St.  Peter, 
Westminster.  Cherteseye,  in  the  diocese  of  Winchester,  to  elect  an  abbot  in  the  place  of 
William  Wroghton,  deprived. 

Feb.  11.         Licence  for  the  alienation  in  mortmain  b}'  Thomas  Kirkeby,  derk, 
Westminster.    Thomas  Wymbissh  and  John  Eyleston  of  lands,  tenements  and  rents  to  the 

value  of  17/.  6f.  Sd,  yearly  to  the  prior  and  convent  of  Nocton  Parke,  co. 
Lincoln,  or  in  default,  for  the  acquisition  in  mortmain  by  the  prior  and 
convent  of  the  same  from  other  persons. 

By  p.s.  and  for  40/.  paid  in  the  hanaper. 

Jan.  31.  Whereas  it  is  ordained  by  law  and  statute  tliat  if  any  person  shall  strike 

Westminster,  another  within  the  palace  of  Westminster  he  shall  lose  his  right  hand,  and 
the  king  understands  on  the  part  of  his  servitor,  Thomas  Seintlegier,  one  of 
the  esquires  of  the  body,  that  on  16  January  the  latter  casuallv  came  across 
Stephen  Cristmasse^  esquire,  one  of  the  marshals  of  the  king  s  hall,  within 
the  palace,  and  after  a  dispute  had  arisen,  wounded  him,  but  without  fore- 
thought, and  for  this  he  was  condemned  before  the  king's  kinsman  John, 
earl  of  Worcester,  steward  of  the  household  and  constable  of  England,  to 
1>e  taken  to  the  place  where  he  struck  the  said  Stephen  and  there  lose  his 
hand,  the  king  pardons  the  said  Thomas,  on  account  of  his  good  service  to 
his  father  and  himself. 

Feb.  11.  Grant  for  life  to  John  Pylkyngton,  one  of  the  esquires  of  the  body,  of 
Westminster,  the  office  of  constable  and  keeper  of  the  king's  castle  of  Wykelowe  in 
Ireland,  receiving  the  accustomed  fees,  and  also,  for  the  great  burden  and 
occupation  of  the  said  office,  and  for  security  of  the  payment  of  the  said 
fees,  of  50/.  yearly  from  the  fee  farm  of  Chapelizod  and  Salmon  Leap, 
at  the  hands  of  the  prior  and  brethren  of  the  Hospital  of  St.  John  of 
Jerusalem  in  Ireland  or  other  farmers  or  receivers  of  the  said  faim.  By  p.s. 

Feb.  19.         Appointment,  until  19  August,  of  Bichard  Lamleder  to  purvey  sea  and 
Westminster,  fresh-water  fish  and  all  other  necessaries  for  the  office  of  buyer  of  the 
household  and  carriage  fcT  the  same. 

Feb.  21.         Grant,  during  good  behaviour,  to  John  Felowe  of  the  office  of  the 

Westminster,  bailiwick  of  the  fees  and  franchises  of  the  honour  of  Walyngford  and  St. 

Yalery,  receiving  the  accustomed  fees  from  the  issues  of  the  office*  with 


4  EDWARD  IV.— Part  !!•  381 


1466.  Membrane  9 — cent. 

full  power  and  authoritj,  rendering  a  yearly  account  to  the  king  of  the 
issues  before  the  auditors  of  the  duchy  of  Cornwall.  Bj  p.s. 

Feb.  22.         General    pardon    to    Richard    Beeke,    late    of    Wendljngburgh,    co. 

Westminster.  Northampton,  'yoman,'  alias  Richai-d  Smyth,   late  of  Wendlyngburgh, 

*  furbour/  for  all  offences  committed  by  him  before  15  February.       By  p.8. 

Membrane  8. 

Feb.  12.         Licence,  for  I3s,  4d.  paid  in  the  hanaper,  for  John  Rynglend  and  Agnes 
Westminster,   his  wife,  to  grant  a  messuage  in  Norhampton,  held  in  chief,  to  John  Ro&rd, 
chaplain,  John  Clerk,  chaplain,  John  Palmer,  chaplain,  and  John  Clerk  of 
Norhampton, '  baker,'  and  their  heirs. 

1464. 

Oct.  15.         Pardon  to  Robert  Harcourt  of  Staunton  Harconrt,  co.  Oxford,  knight,  of 

Wycombe,     all  offences  committed  by  him  before  5  October  contrary  to  the  statutes  of 

liveries  and  all  fines,  issues,  amercements,  reliefs,  scutages,  debts,  accounts 

and  arrears  due  from  him  to  the  king.  By  p.s. 

1465. 

Feb.  14.  Grant  to  EliEabeth  Gyrlington,  late  the  wife  of  Nicholas  Gyrlyngton, 
Westminster,  and  the  heirs  male  of  the  body  of  the  said  Nicholas,  for  his  good  service  to 
the  king  and  the  king's  father  ^Richard,  late  duke  of  York,  and  his 
Imprisonment  and  death,  and  for  the  relief  of.  herself  and  their  two  sons 
and  one  daughter,  of  all  messuages,  lands  and  tenements  late  of  Edmund 
Fyssh,  late  of  York,  <  taiUour,'  in  the  city  of  York,  forfeited  to  the  king  by 
an  act  in  Parliament  at  Westminster,  4  November,  1  Edward  IV;  and 
release  to  her  as  executrix  of  the  will  of  the  said  Nicholas  of  all  issues 
received  by  the  said  Nicholas  and  her  from  the  same,  and  of  all  debts  and 
accounts.  By  p.s. 

Feb.  15.         General  pardon  to  William  Plombe,  late  of  Wenyngton,  co.  Huntingdon, 
Westminster.  *  laborer '  alias  *  husbondman.'  By  p.s. 

Feb.  5,  The  like  to  Thomas  Bland  of  Zarwell,  co.  Northampton,  'taylor,'  of  all 

Westminster,  offences  committed  by  him  before  28  January.  By  p.s. 

Feb.  9.  Pardon  to  John  Chudlegh,   Chuddelegh,   Chudley  or  Chidley  kte  of 

Westminster.  London,  'gentilman,'  alias  late  of  Asshton  or  Aysshton,  co.  Devon, 
alias  late  of  the  parish  of  St  Andrew,  Holborn,  without  the  bars  of  the 
Old  Temple,  London,  of  his  outlawry  in  London  and  Middlesex  for  not 
appearing  before  John  Prysot  and  his  fellows,  justices  of  the  Bench  in 
the  late  reign,  to  satisfy  Thomas  Canynges,  citizen  and  alderman  of 
London,  of  40/.  which  he  recovered  against  him  and  6  marks  damages, 
Thomas  Canynges,  citizen  and  alderman  of  London,  of  40/.  which  he 
recovered  against  him  and  5  nuirks  damages,  and  Louis  de  Strociis,  mer- 
chant of  Florence,  of  36/.  I3s.  4d.  and  6  marks  damages,  to  answer  Philip 
Malpas,  citizen  and  merchant  of  London,  touching  a  debt  of  160/.,  Peter 
Busshop,  'peautrere,'  and  William  Bacon,  ^  haberdassher,'  citizens  of 
London,  touching  a  debt  of  40/.,  Thomas  Gay  the  elder  touching  a  debt 
of  24  marks  and  Thomas  atte  Wode,  'bruer,'  touching  a  debt  of  4/.,  to 
answer  a  plea  that  he  render  20/.  to  William  Bourgchier,  knight,  and 
Katharine  his  wife,  executrix  of  the  will  of  Hugh  Stucle  or  Stukle,  esquire, 
and  to  answer  Thomas  Frary,  citizen  of  London,  touching  a  debt  of  40s. ; 
he  having  surrendered  to  the  Flete  prison  and  satisfied  the  said  Thomas 
Canynges,  Thomas  Canynges  and  Louis,  as  Bobert  Danby,  knight,  chief 
justice  of  the  Bench,  has  certified. 

Feb*  12.         General  pardon  to  Thomas  Tunstall  for  all  offences  committed  by  him 
Westminster,  before  9  December.  Bj  p.s. 

Feb.  13.         Presentation  of  Robert  Banby,  chaplain,  t«>  the  church  of  Enfeld,  in 
Westminster,  the  diocese  of  Coventry  and  Lichfield,  void  by  the  death  of  Humphrey 


382  CALENDAR  OF  PATENT  ROLLS. 


14,g5.  Membrane  S~-cont. 

Smjth  alias  Bariievile,  last  parson,  in  the  king's  gift  by  reason  of  the 
custody  of  the  land  and  heir  of  Richard  Longvile,  deceased,  tenant  in  chief, 
being  in  his  hands. 

Feb.  22.  Licence  for  Thomas  Wjmbjssh  and  Robert  Whaplod,  chaplain,  to  found 
Westminster,  a  chantry  of  one  chaplain  to  celebrate  daily  at  the  altar  of  St.  Mary  in  the 
parish  church  of  St.  Peter  ad  Placitay  Lincoln,  for  the  good  estate  of  the 
king  and  themselves,  and  for  their  souls  after  death,  and  the  souls  of 
John  Hudilston  and  Elizabeth  his  wife,  and  all  faithful  departed  according 
to  their  ordinance,  to  be  called '  John  Huddilston's  chaunterie,'  and  to  grant 
in  mortmain,  after  inquisition,  lands,  tenements,  rents,  reversions,  services 
and  other  possessions  to  the  value  of  8  marks  vearly  to  the  said  chaplain 
for  his  £i|]stenance.  By  p.s.  and  for  18/.  paid  in  the  hanaper. 

1464.  Membranb  7. 

April  6.  Grant  to  the  king's  kinswoman  Eleanor,  lady  of  Stanley,  and  her  heirs 

Westminster,  of  the  mills  of  Llanvas  and  Kennecogh  within  the  king's  lordship  of 
Bewemares  sometime  in  the  tenure  of  Thomas  Nesse  and  William  Cranwell, 
with  the  demesne  rents  of  all  lands  and  tenements  sometime  of  Richard 
Kyghley  within  the  said  lordship,  which  used  to  render  4/.  14«.  ^d.  as 
appears  in  the  court  rolls  of  the  lordship,  rendering  yearly  a  red  rose  at 
Midsummer.  By  p.s. 

April  7.  Grant  to  William  Darell  of  the  county  of  Kent,  son  of   Thomasina 

Westminster.*  daughter  of  Valentine  Baret,  and  his  lieirs  of  the  manor  of  Capell,  co. 
Kent,  with  all  issues  from  Christmas  last,  by  the  service  of  \d.  yearly  at 
Midsummer;  on  representation  by  him  that  the  said  Valentine,  whose 
heir  he  is,  was  seised  of  the  said  manor  in  his  demesne  as  of  fee  until  by 
colour  of.  an  inquisition  taken  at  Eltam,  co.  Kent,  on  Wednesday  after  St. 
Leonard,  2  Henry  V.  after  the  death  of  one  Thomas  Shelley,  knight, 
attainted  of  high  treason,  it  was  found  that  the  said  Thomas  cQed  seised 
of  the  same  in  his  demesne  as  of  fee,  which  was  not  true,  but  the  inqui- 
sition was  taken  by  malice  by  the  design  of  one  William  Kirkeby,  then  in 
favour  of  the  king,  and  the  manor  was  taken  into  the  king's  hands. 

By  p.s. 

May  11.  Grant  to  Walter  Holder,  by  mainprise  of  Geoffrey  Herbert  of  London, 
Westminster.  <  gentilman,'  and  John  Alderley  of  Westkyngton,  co.  Wilts,  *  gentilman,' 
of  the  custody  of  two  messuages  and  5  carucates  of  land  in  Button,  Hanam, 
Oldlond  and  Westhanam,  co.  Gloucester,  for  12  years  from  Easter  last, 
rendering  yearly  at  the  Exchequer  at  Westminster  10  marks  as  did  Thomas 
WhitfoiS  for  the  same.  By  p.s. 

Oct.  29.  Exemplification,  at  the  request  of  Thomas  Montgomery,  knight,  of  the 

Westminster,  tenor  of  the  enrolment  of  letters  patent  dated  8  Jftly,  1  Edward  IV.  {see 
p.  46),  appointing  him  for  life  steward  of  the  king's  manor  or  lordship  of 
Haveryng  at  Bower,  co.  Essex,  which  have  been  casually  lost. 

Oct.  27.  Pardon  to  John  Adam  of  Holdeoworthy,  co.  Devon,  *  souter,'  of  his 

Westminster,  outlawry  in  the  county  of  Cornwall  for  not  appearing  before  the  king  to 
satisfy  him  for  his  ransom  for  a  trespass  against  John  Person  of  Northbere 
against  the  peace  of  Henry  VI ;  he  having  surrendered  to  the  Marshalsea 
prison,  as  John  Markham,  knight,  chief  justice  of  the  King's  Bench,  has 
certified. 

The  like  to  Walter  Denys  of  Peworthy,  co.  Devon,  ^  husbondman,'  for 
the  same. 

The  like  to  Robert  Denys  of  Thomebury,  co.  Devon,  ^  husbondman,' 
for  the  same. 

Nov.  8.  The  like  to  Richard  West  late  of  Little  Bradewater,  co.  Sussex,  knight, 

Westminster.  cUias  late  of  London,  knight,  of  his  outlawry  in  the  county  of  Devon  for 


4  EDWARD  IV.— Part  IL  383 


I 


1464.  Membrane  ^J-^-'Cont, 

not  appearing  before  the  justices  of  the  Bench  to  satisfy  the  king  for  his 
ransom  for  a  trespass  against  Roger  Keys,  clerk,  at  Hempston  Cantelo 
against  the  peace  of  Henry  VI.  and  of  another  outbiwrj  touching  another 
I  ransom  for  a  trespass  against  Thomas  Keys  at  the  same  place  ;  he  having 

surrendered  to  the  Flete  prison  and  satisfied  the  said  Roger  and  Thomas 
of  the  damages  adjudged  to  them,  as  Robert  Danby,  chief  justice  of  the 
Bencbi  has  certified. 

Nov.  4.  Mandate  to  all  the  bailiffs  and  others  to  permit  Andrew  Malyson,  chaplain, 

Westminster,   born  in  the  town  of  Saynt  Johnston  in  Scotland,  dwelling  at  Rodmersham, 

CO.  Kent,  who  has  taken  an  oath  of  fealtj,  to  inhabit  the  realm  peaceably 

and  enjoy  his  goods.  JVj  p.8. 

Oct.  4.  Grant  to  Agnes  Buryton,  the  abbess,  and  the  prioress  and  convent  of 

Heading,  the  abbey  of  St.  Mary,  Winchester,  that  during  all  future  voidances  of  the 
abbey  the  prioress  and  convent  shall  have  the  custody  of  the  abbey  and 
its  temporalities  with  its  free  administration,  saving  to  the  crown  knights' 
fees  and  advowsons,  and  the  custody  of  all  lands  and  possessions  that  may 
be  acquired  by  them  in  the  future,  rendering  at  the  Exchequer  1(K)«.  for 
the  first  month  of  voidance  and  50«.  for  each  succeeding  month.  And  no 
escheator  or  other  minister  of  the  king  shall  interfere,  except  that  at  the 
beginning  of  each  voidance  the  escbeator  shall  come  to  the  gate  of  the 
abbey  or  within  any  manor -belonging  fjo  it,  and  take  simple  seisin  in  the 
name  of  the  king  and  then  depart.  Bj  p.s. 

Sept.  29.         Grant  for  life  to  John  Smyth  of  the  office  of  purveyor  of  stone,  timber, 
Beading,     and  other  necessaries   for  the  king's  works  within   the  manor  of  Shene, 
receiving  the  accustomed  fees  at  the  hands  of  the  clerk  of  the  king's  works. 

By  p.s. 

1465. 

Jan.  25.         Grant  to  Christopher  Borough,  the  provost,  and    the  brethren  of  the 

Westminster,   college  of  St.  William,  York,  of  all  those  stones  called  '  freestone '  lying  in 

the  quarry  of  Hodlestone  by  the  bank  of  the  river  Ouse,  for  the  better 

building  of  the  college.  By  K. 

Feb.  22.         Appointment,  during  pleasure,  of  John   Luthyngton  as  auditor  of  the 

Westminster,   accounts  of  aU  ministers  and  officers  of  the  king's  lordship  and  forest  of 

Fekenbam,  receiving  such  fees  as  other  auditors  received  at  the  hands  of 

the  bailifis  and  other  occupiers  of  the  same.  By  bill  of  treasurer. 

2464.  Membrane  6. 

Nov.  8.  Grant  to  Thomas,  bishop  of  Bath  and  Wells,  and  his  successors  of  all 

Wycombe,  fines,  ransoms,  amercements  and  forfeited  issues  from  the  dean  or  dean  and 
chapter  and  all  canons,  vicars  and  ministers  of  the  cathedral  church  of  St. 
Andrew,  Wells,  the  prior  and  convent  and  monks  of  St.  Peter,  Bath,  and 
all  tenants  and  residents  on  the  lands,  possessions  and  fees  of  the  said 
bishop,  dean  and  chapter  and  prior  and  convent  before  the  king  in 
Chancery,  his  justices,  the  treasurer  and  barons  of  the  Exchequer,  the 
steward  and  marshal  of  the  household  and  all  other  his  officers  and  ministers. 
He  and  his  tenants  and  residents  within  the  said  lands  and  fees  shall  be 
quit  of  toll  throughout  the  realm,  and  nothing  shall  be  taken  of  their  com 
and  other  goods  by  the  officers  and  ministers  of  the  king  against  their  Will 
He  shall  have  goods  and  chattels  of  felons,  fugitives  and  outlaws,  return  of 
writs  and  summons,  and  deodand  and  treasure  trove  within  the  said  lands 
and  fees,  and  no  sheriff,  bailiff  or  other  minister  of  the  king  shall  enter 
therein.  He  shall  have  cognisance  of  all  pleas  touching  lands  and 
tenements  and  all  pleas  of  debt,  trespass  and  other  contracts  within  the  city 
and  liberty  of  Wells,  and  full  power  to  hear  and  determine  caaes  within  the 
same  as  have  the  justices  of  the  peace  or  of  labourers  in  the  county  of 
Somerset.     And  he  shall  have  all  goods  called  wreck  of  sea  on  the  sea  coast 


384  CALENDAR  OF  PATENT  ROLLS. 


14.64.  Membrane  7 — cont. 

witbin  his  hundred  of  Wynterstoke  and  full  power  to  hear  and  determine 
such  cases  within  the  said  hundred  and  the  liberty  of  the  same  as  could  bo 
heaixl  and  determined  before  the  king's  admiral,  and  no  admiral  of  the  king 
shall  enter  therein  to  exercise  the  office  of  admiralty. 

By  p.s.  for  20«.  paid  in  the  hanaper. 

May  29.  Grant  to  the  king's  kinsmen  John,  earl  of  Worcester,  and  his  assigns  of 

Westminster,  the  custody  of  the  manors  of  Caxton,  co.  Cambridge,  and  Wotton,  co. 
Bedford,  and  all  other  manors,  lands  and  advowsoms  of  churches  and 
chantries  lat^  of  Richard  Burgayn  or  Burgoyn  in  these  counties  and  else- 
where within  the  realm  during  the  minority  of  John  son  and  heir  of  the 
said  Richard  and  the  marriage  of  the  said  heir,  from  the  death  of  the  said 
Richard,  and  so  from  heir  to  heir ;  in  lieu  of  a  grant  to  him  of  the  lands  of 
the  said  Richard  in  the  county  of  Cambridge,  by  letters  patent  dated  20 
February,  3  Edward  IV.  surrendered.  By  K. 

Membranes  5  and  4. 

March  17.  Richard  II.  by  letters  patent  committed  to  Thomas  Trewyn,  esquire,  the 
Westminster,  custody  of  the  manor  of  Woderewe,  co.  Wilts,  for  life,  rendering  20  marks 
yearly  at  the  Exchequer;  and  on  15  October,  16  Richard  II.  granted  the 
said  manor  to  him  for  life  without  rendering  anything;  and  Henry  IV.  on 
6  November,  1  Henry  IV.  by  letters  patent  granted  the  manor  to  his 
esquire  William  Alyngton  for  life  with  housebote  and  haybote  in  the  forest 
of  Blakemore  without  rendering  anything ;  and  afterwards  on  10  January, 
2  Henry  IV.  by  letters  patent  confirmed  to  Thomas  Trewyn  the  said  grant 
of  15  October. 

By  a  fine  levied  in  the  court  of  Henry  III.  at  Southampton  from  the  day 
of  the  Purification  of  St.  Mary,  56  Henry  III.  in  one  month  before 
Master  Roger  de  Seyton  and  his  fellows,  justices  in  eyre,  between  John 
Beseill  and  Margaret  his  wife,  complainants,  and  Elias  de  Rabayne  and 
Matilda  his  wife,  deforciants,  by  Roger  Noreys  put  in  their  place,  the  said 
Eiias  and  Matilda  acknowledged  that  the  manor  of  le  Grave  was  the  right 
of  the  said  John  and  Margaret  to  hold  to  them  and  the  heirs  of  the  body 
of  Margaret,  at  the  rent  of  Id.  at  Easter,  with  remainder  to  John  for  life 
and  reversion  to  themselves  and  the  heirs  of  Matilda  ;  and  on  the  represen- 
tation of  Peter  Baseill,  kinsman  and  heir  of  the  said  Margaret,  that  the  said 
John  and  Margaret  died  and  the  said  Thomas  Trewyn  entered  into  and  held 
the  said  manor  contrary  to  the  form  of  the  said  fine^  king  Henry  IV. 
ordered  the  sheriff  of  Wilts  to  summon  the  said  Thomas  before  the  justices 
of  the  Bench  atj  Westminster  on  a  ceitain  day.  T!ie  sheriff  returned  that 
he  had  ordered  Walter  Wynneley,  bailiff  of  the  liberty  of  the  prioress  of 
Ambresbury  of  her  hundred  of  Melkesham,  who  had  return  of  writs  and 
execution  within  the  liberty,  but  the  bailiff  gave  no  response.  The  king 
then  ordered  the  sheriff  to  summon  the  said  Thomas  by  good  men  of  the 
county  to  appear  as  above  to  show  cause  why  the  said  manor  should  not 
remain  to  the  said  Peter  as  kinsman  and  heir  of  the  said  Margaret. 

The  said  Peter  appeared  before  the  justices  of  the  Bench  by  Richard 
GK>olde,  his  attorney,  and  the  said  Thomas  by  Nicholas  Wotton,  his 
attorney,  and  the  sheriff  by  William  Spendour  and  William  Weston ;  and 
Peter  said  that  he  was  son  of  Matthew,  son  of  Peter,  son  of  Edward,  son  of 
the  said  Margaret  and  her  heir  and  claimed  execution.  And  after  adjourn- 
ment Thomas  said  that  Richard  II.  was  seised  of  the  said  manor  and 
committed  it  to  him  for  life  by  letters  patent  dated  15  October,  16  Richard 
II.  by  the  name  of  the  manor  of  Woderewe,  co.  Wilts,  and  that  Henry  IV. 
confirmed  the  grant  by  letters  patent  dated  10  January,  2  Henry  IV.  both 
of  which  letters  he  produced,  and  an  acyourument  was  made  and  the 
attorney  of  Peter  told  to  sue  before  the  king.  And  after  further  adjourn- 
ments the  said  Peter  and  Thomas  appeared  by  their  attorneys  and  the 


4  EDWARD  IV.— Pabt  II.  385 


1464.  Membranes  5  and  4 — corU. 

king  by  writ  dose  directed  the  justices  to  proceed  according  to  the  law  and . 
custom  of  the  realm  and  do  justice. 

The  said  Peter  claimed  execution  as  before,  and  the  said  Thomas  said 
that  he  ought  not  to  have  execution  because  by  a  writing  produced,  dated 
at  Suthwerke,  19  January,  4  Henry  IV.  he  released  to  Thomas  and  his 
heirs  all  right  and  claim  that  he  had  in  the  said  manor  by  the  name  of  the 
manor  of  la  Ghrave  in  Woderowe  eUias  the  manor  of  Woderewe  in  the 
parish  of  Melkeshamy  co.  Wilts.  And  Peter  said  that  he  should  not  be 
excluded  from  execution,  because  he  was  imprisoned  by  Thomas  and 
others  at  Suthwerke,  co.  Surrey,  until  by  duress  he  made  the  said  writing. 
The  sheriff  of  Surrey  was  ordered  to  summon  twelve  men  of  the  vicinage 
of  Suthwerk  before  the  justices,  and  these  declared  on  their  oath  that  the 
said  Peter  was  imprisoned  as  above.  The  king  by  writ  close  ordered 
the  justices  to  I'ender  judgement,  and  judgement  was  given  that  the  said 
Peter  should  have  execution  of  the  said  manor  against  the  said  Thomas. 

And  now  on  the  part  of  Roger  Tokotes,  knight,  and  Elizabeth  his  wife, 
late  the  wife  of  William  Bcauchamp,  knight,  lord  of  St.  Amand,  the 
present  king  understands  that  the  said  Peter  by  the  name  of  Peter  Besil  of 
WodhuU,  CO.  Wilts,  by  a  charter  dated  at  Melkesham,  11  June,  9  Henry  IV. 
granted  the  said  manor  by  the  name  of  the  manor  of  la  Ghrave  alias 
Woderewe  cUicu  Quenecourte  in  the  parish  of  Melkesham  to  William 
Askam,  John  Dys,  Roger  Laughtburgh,  citizens  of  London,  the  said 
Thomas  Trewyn  by  the  name  of  Thomas  Ailleward,  esquire,  and  William 
Weston  of  the  county  of  Wilts  and  the  heirs  and  assigns  of  the  said 
Thomas  with  lands,  meadows,  pastures,  woods,  mills,  rents,  services,  wards, 
marriages,  reliefs,  heriots,  escheats,  courts  and  other  commodities.  And 
the  said  William  Askham,  John  and  Roger  by  a  writing  dated  the  octave 
of  Martinmas,  1 1  Henry  IV.  released  to  the  said  William  Weston  of  the 
parish  of  Melkesham  all  their  right  in  the  same;  and  the  latter  by  a 
writing  dated  at  Melkesham,  18  June,  13  Henry  IV.  released  to  the  said 
Thomas  and  his  heirs  and  assigns  all  his  right  in  the  same.  The  said 
Thomas  by  charter  dated  at  Melkesham,  Monday  after  Midsummer,  5 
Henry  V.  granted  the  manor  to  Thomas  Hanecok  and  Robert  Groke  and 
their  heirs  and  assigns ;  and  these  by  writing  indented  dated  at  Woderewe, 
Thursday  after  All  Saints,  6  Henry  V.  granted  it  to  Elizabeth,  late  the 
wife  of  John  Hamelyn,  knight,  and  late  the  wife  of  the  said  Thomas 
Trewyn,  for  her  life,  with  remainder  to  Walter  Beauchamp,  knight,  and 
Elizabeth  his  wife  and  Robert  Salman  and  their  heirs  and  assigns.  The 
said  Walter  and  Robert  died  and  afterwards  the  said  Elizabeth,  late  the 
wife  of  John  Hamelyn,  died  and  the  manor  remained  to  Elizabeth,  late  the 
wife  of  Walter,  who  granted  it  to  the  said  William  Beauchamp,  knight,  and 
his  assigns.  He  enfeoffed  Nicholas  Creklade,  Walter  Newman,  chaplain, 
and  William  Mason  of  the  same  and  they  re-granted  it  to  him  and  the  said 
Elizabeth,  then  his  wife,  and  the  heirs  of  their  bodies,  with  remainder  to 
his  right  heirs.  And  they  had  issue  one  Richard  Beauchamp,  who  still 
survives,  and  the  said  William  Beauchamp  died  and  the  said  EUzabeth  held 
the  manor  and  is  still  seised  of  it. 

In  consideration  of  the  above  the  king  confirms  to  the  said  Roger  Tocotes, 
knight,  and  the  said  Elizabeth,  now  his  wife,  all  the  estate  which  they 
have  in  the  said  manor  as  iu  her  risht,  and  releases  all  his  right  and  claim 
to  the  same  to  them  and  the  heirs  of  the  bodies  of  Elizabeth  and  the  said 
William,  her  late  husband,  or,  iu  default  of  such,  to  the  heirs  of  ^the  latter 
and  also  all  debts,  accounts,  issues  and  forfeitures  due  to  him. 

By  p.s.  and  for  10/.  paid  in  the  hanai)er. 

1463.  Membrane  8. 

Jul^  2.  Whereas  Robert  Harecourt  of  Stawnton  Harecourt,  co.  Oxford,  knight, 

Westminster.  Thomas  Erdyngton  of  Barow  upon  Sore,  co*  Leicester,  knight,  William 

u    $6914.  BB 


386 


CALENDAR  OF  PATENT  ROLLS. 


1463. 


1465. 

Feb.  19. 

Westminster. 


Jan.  28. 
Westminster. 

Feb.  6. 
Westminster. 

Jan.  21. 
Westminster. 


Jan.  28. 
Westminster. 

1464. 

Dec.  23. 
Westminster. 

1465. 

Jan.  29. 

Westminster. 

Feb.  27. 
Weitminster. 

1464. 

Dec.  17. 

Westminster. 


Membrane  3 — cont. 

Brownyng  of  Milburje,  co.  Dorset,  esquire,  and  Richard  Harecourt  of 
Combe,  co.  Oxford,  esquire,  hj  writings  obligatory  dated  8  June,  2  Edward 
IV.  are  bound  to  the  king  in  133/.  11«.  9|<?.  to  be  paid  at  Easter  then 
following  and  in  133/.  lis.  9}</.,  to  be  paid  at  Christmas,  1463,  the  king 
releases  the  said  William  Brownjng  from  all  liability.  By  K. 

Vacated  because  in  the  third  year. 

Licence  for  the  dean  and  chapter  *of  the  cathedral  church  of  Wells  to 
elect  a  bishop  of  Bath  and  Wells  in  the  place  of  Thomas  de  Bekyntona, 
late  bishop,  deceased.     [^Foedera.]  By  p.s. 

The  like  for  the  prior  and  chapter  of  the  cathedral  church  of  SS.  Peter 
and  Paul,  Bath.     [Foedera.']  By  p.s. 

Licence  for  the  prior  and  convent  of  the  monastery  of  St.  Albans  to  elect 
an  abbot  in  the  place  of  Master  John  Whethamsted,  late  abbot,  deceased. 

Licence  for  the  president  and  convent  of  Raveneston,  of  the  order  of  St. 
Augustine,  in  the  diocese  of  Lincoln,  to  elect  a  prior  in  the  place  of 
Thomas  Wolvercote,  late  prior,  resigned. 

Appointment,  during  pleasure,  of  John  Wilson  as  ganger  in  the  port  of 
Bristol  and  ports  and  places  adjacent,  receiving  the  accustomed  fees. 

By  bill  of  the  treasurer. 

The  like  of  the  following  in  the  ports  named  and  ports  and  places 
adjacent : — 

Hugh  Edon  in  the  port  of  Kyngeston  on  Hull.     By  bill  of  the  treasurer. 


Roger  Halle  in  the  port  of  Southampton. 


Robert  Lie  in  the  port  of  Sandwich, 
John  Flaxmere  in  the  port  of  Pole. 


By  bill  of  the  treasurer. 
By  bill  of  the  treasurer. 


Dec.  15. 

Westminster. 

Dec.  10. 

Westminster. 

1465. 

Jan.  17. 

Westminster. 

1464. 

Dec.  7. 
Westminster. 

Dec.  8. 
Westminster. 


Grant,  during  pleasure,  to  David  Phelipp  of  the  office  of  the  tronage  and 

pesage  in  the  port  of  London  and  ports  and  places  adjacent,  receiving  the 

accustomed  fees.  By  bill  of  the  treasurer. 

The  like  to  the  following  in  the  ports  named  and  ports  and   places 

adjacent : — 

John  Walcote  in  the  port  of  Kyngeston  on  Hull. 

By  bill  of  the  treasurer. 

William  Whelpedale  in  the  port  of  Boston.         By  bill  of  the  treasurer. 


Appointment,  during  pleasure,  of  William  Herbert,  esquire,  as  surveyor 
of  the  scrutiny  in  the  port  of  Bristol  and  ports  and  places  adjacent, 
receiving  the  accustomed  fees.  By  bill  of  the  treasurer. 

The  like  of  Geoffrey  Walssh  in  the  port  of  Pole  and  ports  and  places 
adjacent.  By  bill  of  the  treasurer. 

Appointment,  during  pleasure,  of  John  Batie  as  controller  of  the  great 
and  petty  custom,  the  subsidy  of  wools,  hides  and  wool-fells  and  the  subsidy 
of  the  3s,  in  the  tun  and  the  1 2d,  in  the  pound  in  the  port  of  Sandwich  and 


4  EDWARD  IV.—Pabt  IL  387 


1464.  Membrane  3— coni. 

ports  and  places  adjacent,  receiving  the  accustomed  fees,  provided  that  he 
execute  the  office  in  person,  with  the  custody  of  one  part  of  the  coket  seal. 

By  hill  of  the  treasurer. 

March  14.        Grant  for  life  to  the  king's  brothers  George,  duke  of  Clarence,   and 

Wegtminster.  Richard,  duke  of  Gloucester,  that  they  may  have  all  their  charters,  letters 

oatent  and  writs  in  Chancery  and  all  other  courts  of  the  king  quit  of  fee  or 

nne.  By  K. 

Aug.  12.         Appointment,  during  pleasure,  of  Richai'd  Neel  as  one  of  the  king's 
Stamford.     Serjeants  at  law,  receiving  the  accustomed  fees. 

X4g5^  Membrane  2. 

Jan.  20.  Grant  to  Master  Robert  Stillyngton,  king's  clerk,  keeper  of  the  privy 
Westminster,  seal,  by  mainprise  of  John  Brewester  of  London, '  gentilman,*  and  Thomas 
VVode  of  Famham,  co.  Essex, '  gentilman,'  of  Uie  custody  of  all  the  tem- 
poralities of  the  bishopric  of  Bath  and  Wells,  in  the  king's  hands  by  the 
death  of  Thomas,  late  bishop,  so  long  as  they  remain  in  the  king's  hands, 
rendering  as  much  as  may  be  agreed  upon  between  him  and  the  treasurer 
befora  Midsummer  and  supporting  all  charges,  and  also  all  advowsons 
belonging  to  the  king  by  reason  of  &e  said  temporalities.  By  K. 

Jan.  23.         Grant  to  Nicholas  Rawdon  of  the  prebend  of  Coton  in  the  collegiate 

Westminster,   church  of  Tam worth,  in  the  diocese  of  Coventry  and  Lichfield,  which 

William  Morland  lately  had,  void  by  his  resignation.  By  K. 

Feb.  6.  Gk'ant  for  life  to  John  Thomburgh  of  the  office  of  feodary  of  the  king's 

Westminster,  honour  of  Wallingford,  co.  Berks,  with  the  accustomed  fees. 

Feb.  19.         Presentation  of  Richard  Doland  to  the  parish  church  of  Levelond,  in  the 
Westminster,  diocese  of  Canterbury,  void  by  the  resignation  of  William  Beverley. 

Feb.  18.  General  pardon  to  John  Lax,  late  of  London,  clerk,  of  all  offences  of 

Westminster,  which  he  was  indicted  by  authority  of  an  Act  in  Parliament  at  Westminster, 

4  November,  1  Edward  IV.  By  p.s. 

Feb.  26.  Pardon  to  John  Shukburgh,  citizen  and  draper  of  London,  late  one  of 
Westminster,  the  collectors  of  the  customs  and  subsidies  of  wools,  hides  and  wool-fells, 
the  petty  custom  and  the  subsidy  of  tonnage  and  poundage  in  the  port  of 
Sandwich  and  ports  and  places  adjacent,  of  all  oifences  committed  by  him 
and  all  actions  and  demands,  provided  that  these  letters  do  not  extend  to 
any  accounts  of  his  office.  By  p.s. 

Feb.  27.         Licence  for  the  prior  and  convent  of  the  monastery  of  St.  Peter,  Hyde  by 

Westminster.  Winchester,  to  elect  an  abbot  in  the  place  of  Thomas  Bramley,  late  abbot, 

deceased.  By  p.s. 

Jan.  12.         Grant  to  the  king's  brother  George,  duke  of  Clarence,  of  all  moneys, 

Westminster,  rents  and  farms  due  to  the  king  from  Michaelmas,  1  Edward  lY.  for  die 

'  following,  viz.,  the  custody  of  the  castle  and  lordship  of  Horestone,  co. 

Derby,  granted  to  John  Lynton  and  John  Birde  for  12  years  from  Michael- 
mas, 1  Edward  IV.  at  a  rent  of  12/.  20«.  yearly,  by  letters  patent  dated  24 
February,  1  Edward  IV ;  the  custody  of  the  manor  or  lordship  of  Iselham, 
CO.  Cambridge,  granted  to  William,  bishop  of  Ely,  for  10  years  from  Easter, 
2  Edward  IV.  at  a  rent  of  23/.  (>«.  8c/.  yearly,  by  letters  patent  dated  6  May, 
2  Edward  IV ;  the  custody  of  the  manor  of  Cratfield  called  Cratfeldhall,  co. 
Suffolk,  which  William  Genny,  Godfrey  Spark  and  John  Smyth  lately  had, 
granted  to  William  Whelpdale  for  5  years  from  Easter,  2  Edward  IV.  at  a 
rent  of  20/.  20c/.  yearly,  by  letters  patent  dated  27  August,  2  Edward  IV. ; 
the  custody  of  two  parts  of  the  lordship  called  Percy  fee  in  Longludford,  co. 
Lincoln,  granted  to  Richard  Wakefeld,  prior  of  Sixhill,  for  20  years  from 
Michaelmas,  1  Edward  IV.  at  a  rent  of  4/.  16c/.  yeaiiy,  by  letters  patent 
dated  11  November,  1  Edward  IV ;  and  the  custody  of  the  manor  and  town 

BB  2 


388  CALENDAR  OP  PATENT  ROLLS. 


1465.  Membrane  2^cont, 

of  Ludgarsale,  co.  Wilts,  which  Joan,  late  queen  of  England^  held  for  life  in 
dower  and  which  came  into  the  hands  of  Henry  VI.  on  her  death,  granted 
to  William  Colyngborn,  esquire,  for  21  years  from  Michaelmas,  1  Edward 
IV.  at  a  rent  of  10/.  yearly,  by  letters  patent  dated  20  February,  1  Edward 
IV.  By  K. 

Feb.  4.  General  pardon  to  Eleanor  late  the  wife  of  Robert  Huwyssh  late  of 

Westminrter.   Cok  in  the  parish  of  Stokegursy,  co.  Somerset,  *  husbondman.'  By  p.s. 

Feb.  9.  Grant  to  Jaquetta  late  the  wife  of  Ralph  Gray,  knight,  that  she  may 

Westminster,  enter  into  and  hold  for  life  all  the  lands,  castles,  manors,  meadows, 
woods,  forests,  feedings,  pastures  and  warrens  which  William,  perpetual 
vicar  of  Ildyrton,  and  Edmund  Burell  of  Fenton  had  of  the  grant  and 
enfeoffment  of  the  said  Ralph  within  the  towns  and  territories  of  Chelyng- 
ham,  Ancroft,  Roose,  Howyke  and  Haukyll,'  co.  Northumberland,  and 
regranted  to  them  and  the  heirs  of  their  bodies  by  the  names  of  Ralph 
Grey,  knight,  lord  of  Werk  and  Heton,  and  Jaketta  his  wife^  and  which 
the  king  caused  to  be  taken  into  his  hands.  By  K. 


1464.  Membrane  1. 

Aug.  28.  Grant  to  Walter  Scull,  knight,  and  Frances  his  wife  of  the  manors  of 
Woodstock.  Aleynesmore  and  Avynsbury,  co.  Hereford,  and  a  yearly  rent  of  4  marks 
from  the  abbot  and  convent  of  Dowre,  co.  Hereford,  late  of  William  Mulle, 
knight,  with  advowsous,  bondmen  and  their  issues,  knights'  fees,  common 
of  pasture,  easements,  courts  leet,  views  of  frank-pledge,  parks,  warrens 
and  all  other  profits,  in  the  king's  hands  by  reason  of  an  act  of  forfeiture  in 
Parliament  at  Westminster,  4  November,  1  Edward  IV.  to  hold  to  them- 
selves and  the  heirs  of  their  bodies  by  the  service  of  the  fourth  part  of 
one  knight's  fee,  with  successive  remainders  to  Thomas  Mulle  son  of  the 
said  William  Mulle,  Aleisia  Mulle  and  Anne  Mulle  and  the  heirs  of  their 
bodies ;  and  grant  to  the  said  Walter  and  Frances  and  the  heirs  of  the 
body  of  Walter  of  all  lands,  meadows,  feedings,  pastures,  rents,  reversions 
and  services  in  Wyche,  Doverdale  and  their  suburbs,  Wychebolde,  Croule, 
Mytton  and  Hertilbury,  co.  Worcester,  in  the  king's  hands  by  reason  of  the 
forfeiture  of  John  Lenche,  esquire,  attainted  by  authority  of  the  said 
Parliament.  By  -K. 

April  2.  General  pardon  to  Henry  John  late  of  the  parish  of  St.  Clement  Danes 

Westminster,  without  the  bar  of  the  New  Temple,  London,  co.  Middlesex,  ^  taillour.' 

By  p.s. 

1465. 

Feb.  6.  Grant  to  the  king's  brother  G^rge,  duke  of  Clarence,  and  the  heirs  of 

Westminster,   his  body  of  the  manors  and  lordships  of  Chestehunt,  co.  Hertford,  and 

Hunspill  Maryse,  co.  Somerset,  with  their  members  and  appurtenances  with 

knights'  fees,  advowsons,  parks,  warrens,  chaces,  forests  and  all  liberties, 

franchises,  courts  leet,  views  of  frank  pledge,  customs  and  profits.       By  K. 

Jan.  2.  Grant  for  life  to  the  king's  servant  Thomas  Ive,  for  his  good  service  in 

We8tminBter.  attending  to  the  business  of  the  crown  in  Chancery,  of  the  office  of  one  of 
the  clerks  of  the  crown  of  Chancery  with  all  profits,  receiving  20/.  yearly 
from  Michaelmas  last  from  the  issues  of  the  hanaper,  and  a  livery  of  vesture 
and  fur  as  any  derk  of  the  crown  yearly  at  Christmas  and  Whitsuntide  at 
the  great  wardrobe.  By  p.s. 

1464. 

July  7.  The  like  to  the  king's  servitor  Edmund  Tankard,  yeoman  of  the  king's 

Pontefract.     privy  kitchen,  for  his  good  service  to  the  king  and  his  father,  of  the  office 

of  Serjeant  of  *  le  Betaghrie'  of  the  king's  manor  of  Trym  in  Ireland,  with 

accustomed  fees  from  the  issues  of  the  manor.  By  K. 


4  EDWARD  IV.— Pabt  II.  389- 


1464.  Membrane  1 — cont. 

March  23.  The  like  to  the  king's  servitor  Guj  Wolston,  esquire,  for  his  good 
1  Westminster,  service  to  the  king  and  his  father,  of  the  custody  of  the  king's  great  park 
of  Fodringhay,  Erleswode  and  Newehawe,  with  fees  of  4d,  daily  and  all 
other  profits,  the  office  of  constable  of  the  castle  of  Fodringhay  and  of  the 
custody  of  the  garden  and  spinney  of  the  same  which  the  king,  has  made  to 
enclose  the  little  park  of  Fodringhay,  receiving  Qd.  daily,  for  the  constable- 
ship  with  all  other  profits,  and  the  office  of  receiver  of  the  said  castle  and 
lordship  of  Fodringhay,  receiving  fees  of  5  marks  yearly  with  all  other 
profits,  receiving  the  said  fees  from  the  issues  of  the  said  castle  and  lordship. 

By  p.8. 

Mbmbhakb  2%d, 

Nov.  29.         Commission  of  oyer  and  terminer  to  Thomas  Urswyk,  Thomas  Rigby, 
[Westminster.  Miles  Metcalfe,  Hugh  Mille  and  Thomas  Briggez  touching  all  felonies  com- 
mitted in  the  county  of  Middlesex  by  Edmund  Dowembell  late  of  London, 
*  yoman.' 


Membranb  26d. 

Nov.  14.         Commission  to  John  Wenlok  of  Wenlok,  knight,  Philip  Harvey s  and 
Wycombe.    Thomas  Hervy  to  arrest  Robert  Rammysbotem  and  bring  him  before  the 
king  in  Chancery. 

Nov.  23.  Commission  to  Robert  Shottesbroke,  knight,  Thomas  Stonar,  Thomas 
Westminster.  Sakfyle,  William  Mann  von,  Richard  Lovell,  Thomas  Walrond  and  Richard 
Bamevile  and  the  sheriff  of  Oxford  to  enquire  what  honours,  castles,  lord- 
ships, manors,  lands,  rents,  reversions,  annuities,  offices,  fees,  advo wsons,  fee 
farms,  hereditaments  and  other  possessions  Robert,  late  lord  Hungerford, 
attainted  of  high  treason  by  authority  of  an  act  in  Parliament  at  West- 
minster, held  in  the  said  county  on  4  March,  1  Edward  lY.  or  afterwards, 
and  who  has  received  the  issues  in  the  mean  time,  and  at  what  sum  they  are 
extended,  and  into  all  other  circumstances  concerning  them. 

The  like  to  John  Wroughton,  Thomas  Rogers,  John  Isbury,  Richard 
Lovell  and  the  sheriff  in  the  county  of  Wilts. 

The  like  to  .Thomas  Hugford,  William  Muston,  John  Basset,  John 
Beaufitz  and  the  sheriff  in  the  county  of  Warwick. 

The  like  to  William  Lacon,  one  of  the  king's  serjeants-at-law,  Edmund 
Burdenell,  Thomas  Hampden  of  Hampden,  Richard  Levell,  Thomas  Ramsey 
and  the  sheriff  in  the  county  of  Buckingham* 

The  like  to  John  Arundell,  esquire,  Thomas  Clemens,  Thomas  Bere, 
Thomas  Tregarthen,  William  Menwynnek,  John  Penpons,  William  Bere 
and  the  sheriff  in  the  county  of  Cornwall. 

Nov.  26.  Commission  to  Richard  DensyU,  Richard  Chechestre,  John  Denys,  John 
Westminster.  Gifford  and  the  sheriff  of  Devon  to  arrest  Robert  Bordon  of  Clawcton,  John 
Colyn  of  Holeswoithy,  Richard  Geryn  of  Claweton,  Peter  Gteryn  of 
Claweton,  William  Bordon  of  Blaktoryngton,  John  Greryn  of  Hoselworthy, 
William  Gilbert  of  Hoselworthy  and  John  Dene  of  the  parish  of  Were  and 
bring  them  before  the  king  in  Chancery. 

Nov.  20.        The  like  to  Richard  Raghston, '  {Kentilman  '  and  Thomas  Kaweson  to  arrest 
Westminster.  John  Barlowe  and  bring  him  before  the  king  in  Chancery. 

Dec.  1.  Commission  of  oyer  and  terminer  to  William  Laken,  Richard  Quatei- 

Westminstcr.  mayns,  Thomas  Restwold,  Peter  Marmyon,  Thomas  Walron  and  Thomas 
Stoner  touching  all  murders  and  felonies  committed  in  the  county  of  Berks 
by  John  Derrant  late  of  Herst,  co.  Wilts,  'yoman.' 


390  CALENDAR  OF  PATENT  ROLLS. 


1464.  Membrane  26d—c(mt, 

Dec.  5.  Commission  to  John  Wenlok  of  Wen)ok,  knight,  and  William  Seyntgeorge, 

Westminster,  knight,  to  arrest  John  Covert  and  bring  him  before  the  king  in  council. 

Mbmbranb  23d, 

Dec.  15.  Commission  to  Antony  Wydevyle  of  Scales,  knight,  John  Howard,  knight, 
Westminster.  John  Wynkefeld,  knight,  Thomas  Walgrave,  kiught,  William  Calfhorp, 
esquire,  John  Fyncham,  John  Twyer  and  Robert  Wynkefeld,  esquire,  to 
enquire  by  oalh  of  good  men  of  the  counties  of  Norfolk  and  Suffolk  into 
divers  offences  ugainst  the  statute  in  Parliament  at  Westminster,  2 
Henry  VL  enacting  that  whole  wools,  wool- fells,  hides,  lead,  tin  whole 
or  mil  ten  called  'sliotyn  tyune,' and  all  other  merchandise  pertaining  to 
the  staple  shall  be  transrAitted  to  the  town  of  Calais  and  nowhere  else 
beyond  the  seas  under  penalty  of  forfeiture,  and  that  no  licence  to  the  con- 
trary shall  be  granted  except  for  wools,  wool-fells  and  hides  of  Northum- 
berland, Westmoreland,  Cumberland  and  the  bishopric  of  Durham,  saving 
the  royal  prerogative;  the  statute  in  Parliament,  8  Heniy  y[.  enacting  that 
no  person  shall  ship  wools,  wool-fells,  hides,  lead  or  tin  beyond  seas  except 
to  the  said  staple  of  Calais  under  penalty  of  forfeiture  and  imprisonment, 
though  merchants  of  Grcnoa,  Venice,  Tuscany,  Lombardy,  Florence  and 
Catalonia  may  ship  the  same  to  their  own  country,  saving  to  the  burgesses 
of  Berwick  on  Tweed  their  nccui^tomed  privileges;  the  statute  of  13 
Richard  II.  enacting  that  no  one  shall  buy  or  sell  wools  but  at  the  weight 
of  14  pounds  t3  the  stone,  make  residue  of  wools  except  *  codde,'  ^carde ' 
and  'vileyn,'  or  buy  wools  by  the  words  'gode  pakkyng'  or  other  like 
words  ;  the  statute  of  14  Richard  II.  enacting  that  no  denizen  shall  buy  wools 
except  of  the  possessors  of  the  sheep  and  tithe  wools  or  regrate  wools  and  other 
merchandise  of  the  staple  and  no  Englishman  shall  buy  wools  but  for  him- 
self;  and  the  statute  of  14  Henry  YI.  enacting  that  no  one  shall  take  wools 
or  other  merchandise  <  f  the  staple  to  any  suspicious  place  on  the  sea  coast 
except  by  indenture  ;  and  to  return  their  inquisitions  to  the  treasurer  and 
barons  of  the  Exchequer.  By  K. 

1465. 

Jan.  14.  Commission  to  Thomas  Moptide  and  John  Braunston  to  arrest  Robert 

Westminster.    Fuller  and  William  Blukkc  and  bring  them  before  the  king  in  Chancery. 

Mbmbranb  15dm 

Jan.  7.  Commission  to  William  Laken,  Thomas  Rogers,  Thomas  W«lle,  John 

Webtminster.    Proute,  Thomas  Say  and  the  sheriff  of  Berks  to  enquire  what  lands  Edward 

Coudray,  tenant  in  chief,  held  in  the  said  county  on  the  day  of  his  death  and  by 

what  service,  how  much  they  are  worth,  on  what  day  he  die<l,  and  who  is  his 

next  heir,  and  to  take  the  same  into  the  king's  hands. 

The  like  to  William  Laken,  Thomas  Welle,  Thomas  Rogers,  John 
Proute,  Thomas  Say  and  the  sheriffs  in  the  counties  of  Southampton  and 
Wilts. 

1464.  Mbmbranb  i3d. 

March  26.        The  like  to  William  Laken  and  Richard  Rosiwold  touching  the  lands 
Westminster.:  held  by  William  Trussell,  knight,  tenant  in  chief,  deceased,  in  the  county  of 
Berks. 

April  16.         Commission  to  William  Cornyssh  to  take  horses,  carts,  waggons  and  other 
Westminster,  necessaries  for  carriage  for  the  king's  works  and  ordnance. 

The  like  to  the  iollowing  : — 
Edmund  Seland. 
John  Leyland. 
Gregory  Griffith. 


4  EDWAED  IV.— PiUT  U.  391 


1464.  Membrane  13  J— con/. 

Maj  3.  Commission  to  Th.,  archbishop  of  Canterbury,  William,  earl  of  Arundel, 

Westminster,  and  Henry,  earl  of  Essex,  the  king's  kinsman,  and  John  Bourchier  of 
Berners,  knight,  to  array  the  king's  able  bodied  subjects  of  the  counties  of 
Southampton,  Surrey,  Sussex,  Essex,  Kent,  Norfolk,  Suffolk,  Hertford, 
Cambridge,  Huntingdon  and  Middlesex  for  the  resistance  of  the  king's 
enemies. 

The  like  to  Edmund  Grey  of  Ruthvn,  knight,  John  Bourchier  of  Berners, 
knighty  John  Wenlok  of  Wenlok,  knight,  and  Robert  Harecourt,  knight,  in 
the  counties  of  Oxford,  Berks,  Bedford,  Buckingham  and  Hertford. 

The  like  to  the  king's  brother  Richard,  duke  of  Gloucester,  in  the 
counties  of  Gloucester,  Worcester,  Warwick,  Wilts,  Somerset,  Dorset, 
Devon,  Cornwall,  and  Salop. 

Membrane  9d, 

Feb.  8.  Commission  to  William  Notyngham,  Thomas   Lymeiyk  and  Thomas 

Westminster.  Whityngdon  to  enquire  what  lands  and  other  possessions  Thomas  Phelpys, 
indicted  of  high  treason  against  the  royal  majesty  and  outlawed,  held  on 
the  day  of  his  outlawry  in  the  county  of  Gloucester,  how  much  they  are 
worth  yearly,  and  who  has  received  the  issues  in  the  mean  time,  and  into  all 
other  circumstances  concerning  thenu 


392 


4  EDWARD  IV.— PART  IH. 


1464.  MSMBRANB  28, 

Aug.  18.  Inspexitnus  and  confirmation  to  the  citizens  of  Cork  of  letters  patent 
Westminster,  dated  12  May,  1'  Henry  VI,  inspecting  and  confirming  letters  patent 
dated  J  2  N"ovember,  1  Henry  V.  inspecting  and  confirming  letters  patent 
dated  12  February,  5  Richard  II.  inspecting  and  confirming  a  charter  dated 
at  Woodstock,  15  July,  4  Edward  III.  [Charter  EoU^4  Edward  III.  No. 
59,]  inspecting  and  confirming  with  additions  a  charter  dated  at  Northamp- 
ton, 20  July,  12  Edward  II.  inspecting  and  confirming  with  additions  a  charter 
dated  at  Norham,  12  June,  19  Edward  I.  [Charter  Roily  19  Edward  I. 
No:  33,]  inspecting  and  confirming  a  charter  dated  at  Westminster, 
2  January,  26  Henry  III.  [Charter  Roll,  26  Henri/  III.  m.  5,]  erranting 
to  them  divers  liberties.  For  40*.  paid  in  the  hanaper. 


Mbmbranb  27, 

June  3.         Inspeximus  and  confirmation  to  the  prior  and  monks  of  St.  Cuthbert's, 
York.         Durham,  of  the  following : — 

1.  2.  Letters  patent  of  William  I.  [Monasticon,  No.  iv.] 

3.  Letters  patent  of  Henry  I.  dated  at  Rouen,  taking  under  his  protection 

Algar,  then  prior,  and  the  monks  with  all  their  possessions,  they 
having  sustained  injuries  from  Ranulph,  late  bishop.     [Fcedera.} 

4.  Letters  patent  of  Henry  II.  as  follows  :— 

ff,  rex  Anglie  et  dux  Normannie  et  Aquitanie  et  comes  Andegavie 
justiciariisy  vtcecomitibuSy  baronibns,  prepositisy  ministris  et  omni- 
bus  fidelibus  mis  Francis  etAnglis  totius  Anglie  et  Normannie  et 
portuum  marisy  salutem,  Sciatis  me  dedisse  et  concessisse  priori 
et  monachis  ecclesie  Sancti  Cuthberti  de  Dunelmo  omnes  libertates 
et  quietancias  et  liberas  consuetudines  suas  per  totam  terram 
meam  totius  Anglie  et  Normannie  et  per  omnes  meosportus  maris. 
Quare  volo  et  firmiter  precipio  quad  ipsi  et  omnes  res  sue  quas 
homines  sui  poterunt  affidare  suas  esse  dominicas  sint  omnino 
quiete  per  totam  terram  meam  in  portubus  maris  et  in  nundinis 
et  in  omnibus  locis  ab  omni  telonio  et  passagio  et  omni  con' 
suetudine  et  ne  quis  eos  vexet  inde  vel  disturbet  super  hoc  super 
X  libras  forisfactas.  Teste  R.  archiepiscopo  Eboracensi  et  R. 
episcopo  Lincolniensiy  Ricardo  de  X«cy,  apud  Eboracum. 

5.  Letters  patent  of  Henry  TI.  as  follows : — 

Jff.  dei  gratia  rex  Anglie  et  dux  Normannie  et  Aquitanie  et  comes 
Andegavie  archiepiscopisy  episcopisy  abbatibuSy  comitibusy  baroni- 
busy  justiciariisy  vicecomitibuSy  ministris  et  omnibus  fidelibus  suis 
Francis  et  Anglis  totius  Anglie,  salutem  Sciatis  me  concessisse 
et  presenti  carta  c-onfirmasse  Alano  de  Chiltona  et  Iieredibus  suis 
villam  de  Helleia  quam  Hugo  Dunebnensis  episcopus  rationa- 
biliter  dedit  eis  et  concessit  in  feodo  et  hereditate  cum  omnibus 
rebus  ad  eam  pertinentibuSy  cum  incremento  sexies  viginti  acrarum 
quas  de  assarto  et  mora  concessit  eis  ipse  episcopus  continue 
colendas  plusquam  ibi  cultum  erat  quum  eis  dedity  tenendas  de 
ipso  episcopo  et  successoribus  suis,  reddendo  inde  singulis  annis 
dtmidiam  marcam  pro  omni    servicio    et    consuetudine    quam 


4  EDWARD  IV.— Part  III.  393 


1464.  Membrane  27 — coni. 

Johannes  arckidiaconus  de  eadetn  episcopo  tenuit  ita  quod  idem 
Alanus  et  heredes  sui  haheant  de  nemore  episcopi  ad  ediHcandum 
et  comburendum  in  eadem  villa  quod  necessarium  fuerit  sine 
vasto  et  cotnmunem  pasturam  et  dent  singulis  annisproforestagio 
sex  denarios  tantum  et  de  propriis  porcis  suis  quieti  sint  et 
homines  sui  dent  pannagium  de  porcis  suis  sicut  alii  homines 
militum  episcopi  qui  in  foresta  manent  secundum  quod  carta 
ipsius  episcopi  testatur.  Quare  volo  et  firmiter  precipio  quod 
idem  Alanus  et  heredes  sui  post  eum  ipsam  villam  cum  supra- 
determinatis  haheant  et  teneant  de  ipso  episcopo  et  successorihus 
suis  bene  et  inpace^  libere  et  quiete,  integre  etplenorie  et  honorifice^ 
per  predictum  servicium  cum  omnibus  libertatibus  et  liberis  con^ 
suetudinibu^  suisy  sicut  alii  liberi  homines  episcopi  liberius  et 
honorabilius  de  eo  tenent,  salva  in  omnibus  rebus  tarn  in  feris 
quam  in  aliis  dignitatibus  foresta  episcopi  sicut  ipse  episcopus 
dedit  eis  et  concessit  et  carta  sua  cor^rmavit  per  calumpniam, 
quam  ipse  Alanus  habebat  in  villa  episcopi  de  Comesfort  quam 
episcopo  quietam  clamavit,  Testibus  Gaufrido  filio  meo,  Man- 
dulpho  de  Glanv\ill'}y  Reginaldo  de  Curtenley"]  Gaufrido  RoSy 
Thome  Bard\olf\  Roberto  filio  Bemardi,  Roberto  Liken,*  Ger^ 
[ardo"]  de  Canvillay  apud  Wudestochiam. 

6.  A  charter  dated  Westminster,  10  Maj,  54  Henry  III.  [^Charter  Roll, 

54  Henry  III,  m,  8,]  inspecting  and  confirming  the  following : — 
(1.)  A  charter  of  Walter,  bishop  of  Durham,  dated  13  July,  1260. 
(2S  A  charter  of  Bobert,  bishop  of  Durham. 

(3.)  Another  charter  of  the  same,  dated  at  Durham,  Christmas 
Daj,  1267. 

7.  A  charter  dated  Westminster,  15  February,  14  Edward  I.  {Charter 

Roily  14  Edward  L  No,  40,]  inspecting  and  confirming  a  charter 
of  Edmund,  son  of  Henry  III.  dated  4  December,  1286,  being  a 
grant  in  frank  almoin  to  the  monks  of  Finchale  of  20^.  yearly. 

8.  Letters  patent  dated  31  January,  9  Edward  III.  being  a  grant  to  the 

monks  of  the  island  of  Fameland  by  Baumburgh,  oo.  Northumber- 
land, which  is  a  ceU  of  the  priory  of  Durham,  of  13  marks  lOs. 
yearly  t^t  the  hands  of  the  mayor  and  bailiffs  of  Newcastle  on  Tyne, 
in  lieu  of  a  grant  by  Edward  II. 

9.  A  charter  of  Philip,  late  bishop  of  Durham,  being  a  grant  to  the  same 

of  half  a  chaldron  of  wheat  yearly  in  his  manor  of  Fenwic.     Wit- 
nesses:— Aumeric,    archdeacon    of  Durham,  Master  Constantyn, 
Edmund  de  Lincoln,  Leo  de  Heritz,  William  Natalis  and  others. 
,  For  10/.  paid  in  the  hanaper. 

Membranes  26  and  25. 

Nov.  4.  Inspeximus  and  confirmation  to  Thomus,  the  abbot,  and  the  convent  of 

Westminster.  St.  Peter  and  St.  Hilda,  Whitby,  of  a  charter  dated  at  Eltham  Manor, 
16  April,  9  Bichard  II.  [Charter  Roll,  9  and  10  Richard  IL  No.  12,] 
inspecting  and  confirming  with  additions  a  charter  dated  at  Westminster, 
29  October,  6  Bichard  IT.  {Charter  Roll,  5  and  6  Richard  IL  No.  11,] 
inspecting  and  confirming  a  charter  dated  at  York,  6  February,  7  Edward 
III.  [Charter  Roll,  7  Edward  III  No.  37,1  inspecting  and  confirming  a 
charter  dated  at  York,  7  May,  6  Edward  II.  [Charter  Roll,  6  Edward  IL 
No.  17,]  inspecting  and  confirming  the  following : — 

1.  A   charter  of  William   [I.]    dated  at   Westminster.     [Monasticon, 

No.  v.} 

2.  A  charter  of  the  same  dated  at  York.     [Ibid.  No.  r//.] 

3.  A  charter  of  Henry  [L]  dated  at  Westminster. 

4.  A  charter  of  Stephen  dated  at  York. 


394  CALENDAR  OP  PATENT  ROLLS. 


1464.  *  Membranes  26  and  25^cont, 

5.  A  charter  dated  at  Reading,  13  April,  14  Henry  [IIL]  ins|)ec ting  and 

confirmins:  a  charter  of  Henry  [II.]  dated  at  Winchester. 

6.  A  charter  dated  at  Chylous,  23  April,  L  Richard  I. 

7.  A  charter  dated  at  York,    1  March,   5  John.     [Manasticonf  No. 

ZXXVIJ.'] 

8.  A  charter  dated  at  Freemantle,  26  October,  7  John« 

9.  A  charter  dated  at  Westminster,  10  March,  47  Henry  III. 

For  10  marks  paid  in  the  hanaper. 


Membranes  24  and  23. 

Nov.  9.  Inspeximus  and  confirmation  to  Thomas,  bishop  of  Bath  and  Wells  and 

Wycombe,     the  dean  and  canons  of  Wells  and  the  prior  and  monks  of  Bath  of  a  charter* 
of  Edward  [II.]  inspecting  the  following : — 

1.  A  charter  of  John  as  follows : — 

Johannes  Dei  gratia  rex  Anglie,  dominus  Hibemie^  dux  Normannie^ 
Aquitaniey  comes  Andegavie^  archiepiscopis,  episcopisy  abbatibuSf 
comitibus^  baronibuSy  justiciariis,  forestariisy  vicecomitibusy  pre 
positisy  ministris  et  omnibus  ballivis  et  fidelibus  suis,  salutem, 
Sciatis  nos  concessisse  et  presenti  carta  nostra  confirmasse  Deo  et 
ecclesiis  beati  Andree  de  Welles  et  beati  Petri  Bathoniensiy  et 
venerabili  patri  nostrOy  JoscelinOf  earumdem  ecclesiarum  episcopo 
et  successoribtis  suisy  et  decano  et  canonicis  Wellensibus  et  priori 
et  monachis  Bathoniensibus  in  eisdem  ecclesiis  Deo  servientibus 
imporpetuuMy  omnes  terras  et  reddituSy  tenementa  et  possessioneSy 
jura  et  dignitcUeSy  libertates  et  liberas  consuetudines  que  eis  a 
nobis  vel  antecessoribus  nostris,  vel  aliquibus  aliisy  collate  sunt 
vel  conferendey  sicut  carte  donatorum  rationabiliter  testantur  vel 
testabuntur.  Volumus  eciam  et  concedimus  quod  habeant  per 
omnes  terras  et  tenementa  suoy  thol  et  theam  et  infangenthefy 
cumjudido  aque  et  ignisy  et  cum  furcis  et  ferrOy  et  quod  ipsi  et 
omnes  homines  eorum  et  omnia  tenementa  et  feoda  eorum  sint 
libera  et  quieta  imperpetuum  de  sectis  sdrarwn  et  hundredorum^ 
de  murdris  et  misericordiisy  de  auxiliis  vicecomitumy  prepositorum 
et  omnium  ballivorum  suorumy  et  de  omnibus  placitts  et  querelisy 
et  exactionibus  ad  vicecomites  et  ballivos  suos  pertinentibusy  et  de 
omnibus  summonitionibus  et  juratis  et  eusisis  et  recognitionibus 
faciendisy  preterquam  in  attingendis  propriis  dominicis  nostris  per 
juratamy  si  opusfuerity  infra  comitatum  ubi  manentes  Juerinty  si 
Jorte  contentio  inter  nos  tpsos  et  alios  oriatur.  Quare  volumus 
etjftrmiter  precipimus  quod  predictus  episcopus^  et  successores  suiy 
et  predicti  decanus  et  canonici  Wellensesy  et  prior  et  monachi 
BathonienseSy  et  omnes  homines  et  feoda  et  tenementa  eorum 
habeant  imperpetuum  omnes  predictas  libertates  et  quietancias 
bene  et  in  paccy  libere  et  quietay  integre  et  honorificCy  sicut  predic- 
turn  est,  Testibus ;  Domino  P.  Wintoniensi  episcopOy  Galjrido 
filio  Petriy  comite  Essexiey  Sahero  de  Oueney  (sic),  cmnite  Win^ 
toniey  W,  comite^  WarenneyRogerode  Thoeneyy  JVUlelmo  Briwerrey 
Hugone  de  NevUly  Gaufrido  de  Neviily  senescallo  nostro.  Data 
per  manum  nostram  apud  Gaydinctonamy  tercio  die  Mardiy 
anno  regni  nostri  octavo. 

2.  A  charter  dated  at  Westminster,  4  February,  11  Henry  III.  {^Charter 

Roily  1 1  Henry  III,  p,  1,  m.  30,]  inspecting  and  confirming  to  Joscelin 
then  bishop,  a  charter  dated  at  Canterbury,  26  November,  1  Richard 
I.  to  Reginald,  then  bishop.  [Monasticony  vol.  ii.  p,  289.] 


*  The  ending  of  thii  charter  is  omitted. 


4  EDWAED  IV.— Part  HI.  395 


]  4(>4.  Metnhranes  24  and  23 — cont, 

3.  A  charter  dated  at  West  minster,  22  Janaary,  11  Henrj  III.  confirming 

to  the  said  bishop  certain  manors  \^Charter  Boll,  11  Henri/  III,  p.  1, 
m,  36.] 

4.  A  charter  to  the  said  bishop  dated  at  Westminster,  9  May,  12  Henrj 

III.  ^Charter  Roll,  12  Henry  III,  m.  5.] 

5.  A  charter  dated  at  Lambeth  11  June,  15  Henry  III.  granting  to  the  said 

bishop  divers  liberties  in  his  manor  of  Ceddre.  [Charter  Roll^  16 
Henry  III,  m.  8J 

6.  A  charter  dated  at  Oxford,  15  July,  15  Henry  III.  granting  to  the  said 

bishop  that  his  executors  may  have  the  administration  of  his  goods 
after  his  death.  [Charier  Molly  15  Henry  HI,  m.  6.] 

7.  A  charter  dated  at  Fulham,  15  May,  13  Henry  III.  by  the  hand  of 

Ralph,  bishop  of  Chichester  and  chancellor,  granting  to  the  said 
bishop  Joscelin  that  his  manor  of  Cungresbury  shall  be  disafiPorested 
and  that  he  may  enclose  and  make  a  pai'k  of  the  woods  of  the  manor 
or  assart  the  same.  Witnesses : — Richard,  bishop  of  Durham,  Walter, 
bishop  of  Carlisle,  the  treasurer,  Hubert  de  Burgo,  earl  of  Kent, 
justiciary,  John  de  Munem[uta],  Stephen  de  Segrave,  Ralph  de 
Trubleville,  Hugh  le  Despenser,  Henry  son  of  Aucher,  Richard  de 
Grey,  Heniy  de  Capella  and  others. 

8.  A  charter,  dated  at  Westminster,  14  October,  18  Henry  III.  by  the  hand 

of  the  said  chancellor,  granting  to  them  divers  liberties.  Witnesses  : 
— E.  archbishop  of  Canterbury,  R.  bishop  of  Durliam,  H.  bishop  of 
Ely,  W.  bishop  of  Carlisle,  Thomas,  bishop  of  Norwich,  H.  bishop  of 
Rochester,  W.  earl  of  Warenne,  G.  Marshal,  earl  of  Pembroke,  H.  de 
Burgo,  earl  of  Kent,  H.  de  Bohun,  earl  of  Hereford,  Ralph  son  of 
Nicholas,  Godfrey  de  Craucumb,  John  son  of  Philip,  William  de 
Pycheford,  Geoffrey  do  Caunz  and  others. 

For  10/.  paid  in  the  hanaper. 

Mbmbranbs  22-20. 

Nov.  8.         Inspeximus  and  confirmation  to  Katharme,  the  abbess,  and  the  nuns  of 
Westminster.   Berkiug  of  the  following : — 

1.  Letters  patent  dated  14  July,  7  Richard  II.  beinff  an  exemplification 
at  the  request  of  Matilda,  then  abbess,  of  an  allowance  of  liberties 
made  to  the  abbess  and  convent  before  Aymer  de  Valenciay  earl  of 
Pembroke,  William  la  Zouche  of  Assheby  and  William  de  Cleydon, 
justices  in  eyre  of  the  forest  in  the  county  of  Essex,  in  the  octaves 
of  St.  Hilary,  17  Edward  [II.]  at  Stratford  Laugthom,  co.  Essex. 
The  following  are  recited  :  — 
(1.)  A  charter  of  Hodelredus,  relation  of  Sebby  the  king  of  the 

East  Saxons,  to  Hedelburga,  abbess.  [Monasiicony  No,  ///«] 
(2.^  A  charter  of  William  I.     [See  belowy  No.  (9.)] 
(3.)  A  charter  of  Henry  [I.]  dated  at  Westminster.     [See  below, 

No,  (14.)] 
(4.)  A  charter  of  Stephen  dated  at  Clarendon.     [See  below.  No. 

(«•)] 

(5.)  A  charter  of  Henry  II.  dated  at  Westminster.     [See  below. 

No.  (13.)] 
(6.)  A  charter  of  Henry  II.  dated  at  Westminster.     [See  below. 

No.  (12.)] 

(7.)  A  writ  dated  at  the  Tower  of  London,  16  June,  17  Edward  II. 

commanding  the  said  justices  to  permit  the  said  abbess  to  enjoy 

the  liberties  granted  to  her  in  the  forest  by  the  said  charters. 

By  virtue  of  this  writ  an  inquisition  was  taken  before  the  said  justices  by 

oath  of  the  foresters  and  verderers  and  36  good  men  of  the  three 

regards  of  the  said  forest,  who  say  that  the  abbess  and  convent  have 


896  CALENDAR  OP  PATENT  BOLLS. 


1464.  Membranes  22-20 — cont. 

always  had  free  chace  within  the  forest  and  without  to  take  hares 
and  all  other  vermin  of  the  forest  and  free  warren  in  all  their 
demesne  lands  and  waters  with  amends  of  trespasses  in  their  woods 
of  Mortboys.  They  have  had  two  carts  called  <  Skynanchours,'  each 
with  one  horse  and  one  man,  going  and  carrying  firewood  for  the 
sustenance  of  the  abbey  without  view  and  livery  of  foresters  and 
verderers  through  the  whole  year  except  the  fence  month,  and 
reasonable  estover,  timber  and  fuel  for  the  sustenance  of  the  abbey 
and  its  manors  in  their  woods  within  the  forest  bj  view  and  livery 
of  the  ministers  of  the  forest.  And  they  have  had  without  the 
regard  at  Berkyng  three  groves,  •  viz,,  *  Stokgrave,'  *  Gantesgrave ' 
and  'Crikelwode' :  at  Warle,  a  grove  called  'Heye'  and  another 
called  '  la  More ' :  at  Gyngges  ad  Fetram,  a  grove  called  '  la  Heye,' 
another  called  '  Possemor,'  and  a  third  called  *  la  Bowe '  :  at 
Bothyngges,  a  grove  called  Newewode'  and  another  called  *  Wyke' : 
at  ToUesbury,  a  grove  called  '  Heyghfry th ' :  at  Wegeberwe,  a  grove 
called  *  SEamondesgrove '  and  another  caUed  ^  Saxstonesgrove,'  whence 
they  may  take  necessaries  for  their  house  and  manors  without  view 
or  Uvery  of  the  king's  ministers,  though  the  king's  foresters  enter  at 
their  will  for  the  supervision  and  custody  of  the  king's  venison. 
All  these  liberties  they  shall  henceforth  enjoy. 
2.  A  charter  dated  at  Westminster,  5  July,  7  Bichard  II.  [Charter 
Rollf  7  and  8  Richard  11.  No^  33,]  inspecting  and  confirming  the 
following : — 

(1.)  A  charter  of  Stephen  dated  at  Windsor  to  Adelid,  then  abbess, 
and  the  nuns. 

(2.)  A  charter  of  the  same  dated  at  Barking. 

(3.)  A  charter  of  the  same  dated  at  London. 

(4.)  A  charter  of  the  same  dated  at  Barking. 

(5.)  A  charter  of  the  same  dated  at  Clarendon. 

(6.)  A  charter  of  the  same  dated  at  London. 

(7.)  A  charter  of  the  same  dated  at  Windsor. 

(8.)  A  charter  of  the  same  dated   at  Oxford,  granting  to  queen 
Matilda  that  she  have  the  abbey  in  her  custody. 


I. 


to  A.  abbess. 


I.]  dated  at  Westminster,  granting  the 


(9.)  A  charter  of  William 
(10.)  A  charter  of  Henry 

abbey  to  Agnes. 

(11.)  A  charter  of  Henry[II.]  dated  at  Clyve  io  Adelita,  then  abbess. 
(12.)  A  charter  of  the  same  dated  at  Westminster,  granting  the 

abbey  to  Mary  the  sister  of  St.  Thomas  the  Martyr. 
(13.)  A  charter  of  the  same  dated  at  Westminster.  - 
(14.)  A  charter  of  Henry  I.  dated  at  Westminster. 
(16.)  A  charter  of  Henry  U.  dated  at  Westminster. 
(J 6.)  A  charter  of  the  same  dated  at  Windsor,  granting  the  abbey 

to  Matilda  his  daughter. 
(17.)  A  charter  of  the  same  dated  at  Windsor. 
(18.)  A  charter  dated  at  Lyons,  27  May,  9  Bichard  I. 
(19.)  A  charter  dated  at  Westminster,  6  February,  16  Henry  III. 

inspecting  and  confirming  No.  (17). 
(20.)  A  duplicate  of  the  preceding. 
(21.)  Acharter  dated  at  Westminster,  20  February,  18  Edward  L 

[Charter  Roll,  18  Edward  I.  No.  88.] 
(22.)  A  charter  dated  Antwerp,  15  December,  12  Edward  III. 

3.  Letters  patent  dated  1  May,  3  Richard  II.  being  a  release  to  them  of 

their  charge  of  repairing  467  perches  of  the  paling  and  enclosure 
of  the  king's  park  of  Haveryng,  co.  Essex. 

4.  Letters  patent  dated  29  June,  16  Bichard  II.  being  a  grant  to  them 

at  the  supplication  of  the  king's  uncle  the  duke  of  Gloucester,  and 


4  KDWARI)  IV^Part  III.  897 


1464.  Membrane  22-20— cw^. 

because  a  great  part  of  their  lands  in  Berkyng  and  elsewhere  in 
the  county  of  Essex  had  been  inundated  by  the  river  Thames  and 
the  sea,  that  they  have  return  of  vrrits  and  precepts  of  all  pleas 
and  suits  within  their  hundred  of  Bekentre  and  also  chattels  of 
felons  and  fugitives,  fines,  issues  and  amercements  from  their  tenants 
there.  For  10/.  paid  in  the  hanaper. 


Membranes  19-16. 

Nov.  16.        Inspeximus  and   confirmation  to  William,  the  bishop,   and  the  prior 
Wostminster.    and  convent  of    Ely  of  letters  patent  dated  1  February,  1  Richard  II. 
inspecting  and  confirming  to  Thomas,  then  bishop,  and  John,  then  prior, 
and  the  convent,  the  following :  ^ 

1.  A  charter  dated  at  York,  3  March,  2  Edward  III.  [Charter  Boll, 

2  Edward  IIL  No.  78,]  inspecting  and  confirming  with  additions 
to  John,  then  bishop,  and  the  prior  and  convent  the  following  :— 
(I.)  A  charter  dated  at  York,  1  December,  12  Edward  II.  [Charter 
Molly  12  Edward  11.  No.  42,]  inspecting  and  confirming  a 
charter  of  Edgar  (Latin  and  Saxon). 
(2.)  A  charter  dated  at  York,  1  December,  12  Edward  [I.  [Charter 
Roily  12  Edward  IL  No.  40,]  inspecting  and  confirming  the 
following : — 
Q,  A    charter    of    Edward    the  Confessor.      [Monasticon, 

No,  VII.'] 
b.  A  charter  of  William  I.     [Ibid  No,  x.] 
(3.)  A  charter  dated  at  York,  1  December^  1 2  Edward  II.  [  Charter 
Holly  12  Edward  II,  No,  41,]  inspecting  and  confirming 
the  following : — 

a,  A  charter  dated  at  Wallingford,  3  July,  17  Henry  III. 

b,  A  charter  dated  at  Wallingford,  3  July,  17  Henry  III. 

inspecting  and  confirming  a  charter  dated  at  Roche 
Andelys  {Rupem  Anddiaciy)  1  July,  9  Richard  I. 

2.  A  charter  dated  at  Westminster,   18  September,  17  Edward  HI. 

[Charter  Roily  17  Edward  IIL  No.  14.] 

3.  A  charter  dated  at  Westminster,   10  February,  22  Edward  IIL 

ICharter  Roily  22  Edward  III.  No.  11.] 

For  10  marks  paid  in  the  hanaper. 

Membranes  15-13. 

Oct.  20.  '       Inspeximus  and  confirmation  to  the  master  and  brethren  of  the  hospital 
Westminster,   of  the  House  of  God  at  Dover  of  letters  patent  dated  26  March,  1  Richard  II. 
inspecting  and  confirming  the  foUowing  :— 

1.  A  charter  dated  at  Westminster,  22  April,  12  Edward  HI.  [Charter 

Roily  12  Edward  III.  No.  5,]  inspecting  and  confirming  a  charter 
dated  at  Westminster,  17  February,  13  Henry  III, 

2.  A  charter  dated  at  Westminster,  16  October,  21  Edward  HI.  [Charter 

Roily  21  Edward  III  No.  16.] 

3.  Letters  patent  dated  2  May,  18  Edward  HI.  being  an  exemplification 

of  a  charter  dated  at  Kennington  by  the  hand  of  the  king's  son  Ed- 
ward, duke  of  Cornwall  and  earl  of  Chester,  20  August,  12  Edward  IH. 
[Charter  Roily  12  Edward  III.  No.  33,]  inspecting  and  confirming 
the  following : — 

(1.)  A  charter  dated  at  Westminster,  24  March,  11  Henry  IIL 
(2.)  A  charter  dated  at  Westminster,  14  July,  12  Henry  III. 

[MonasticoUy  No.  ///.] 
(3.)  Another  charter  of  the  same  date  [Ibid.  No.  iv.] 


398  CALENDAR  OF  PATENT  ROLLS. 


1464.  Membranes  15-13 — conU 

(4.)  A  charier  dated  at  London  24  September,  13  Henry  III. 
(5.)  A  charter  dated  at  Westminster,  II  October,  13  Henry  III. 

[Ibid.  No.  v.] 
(6.)  A  charter  dated  at  Westminster,  10  December,  13  Henry  III. 

llbid.  No.  VI.] 
(7.)  A  charter  dated  at  Westminster,   10  April,  15  Henry  III. 

[Ibid.  No.  VJii.} 
(8.)  A  charter  dated  at  Canterbury,  9  May,  19  Henry  III.  [^Ibid. 

No.  JX.] 
(9.)  A  charter  dated  at  Dover,  9  February,  19  Henry  HI.  [Ibid. 

No.  X.] 
(10.)  A  charter  dated  at  Rochester,  20  March,  31  Henry  III. 

[ifttrf.  No.  XI.'] 
(11.)  Letters  patent  dated  5  February,  6  Edward  I. 
(12.)  A   charter  dated  at  Canterbury,   10  May,  14   Edward  I. 

[Charter  Roily  l4  Edward  I.  No.  6.] 

For  608.  paid  in  the  lianaper. 


Membrane  13 — cont. 

1465, 

Feb.  1.  Inspeximus  aod  confirmation  to  John,  the  prior,  and  the  canons  of  Holy 

Westmiuster.  Trinity,  Ipswich,  of  a  charter  dated  at  Eltham,  18  March,  5  Edward  III. 
[  Charter  Boll,  5  Edward  III.  No.  74,]  inspecting  and  confirming  with 
additions  a  charter  of  Henry  II.  dated  at  Lyons. 

For  208.  paid  in  the  hanaper. 


Membranes  12-10. 

Jan.  10.  Inspexitnus  and   confirmation   to  tlie   abbot  and  convent  of  Stratford 

Westminster.   Langthorn,  of  the  Cistercian  order,  of  the  following : — 

1.  A  charter  dated  at  York,  16  March,  12  Edward  II.  granting  to  them 

free  warren  in  all  their   demesne  lands  of  Esthamme,  co.  Essex. 
[Charter  Roll,  12  Edxcard  II.  No.  26.] 

2.  Letters  patent  dated  6  August,  5  Edward  III.  granting  a  licence  for  the 

acquisition  in   mortmain  by  them  of  certain  land  in  Leyton,  co. 
Essex. 

3.  A  charter  dated  at  York,  4  March,  8  Edward  III.  being  a  grant  to 

them  of  lands  in  Wolewych  [  Charter  Roily  8  Edward  III.  No.  43.] 

4.  A  charter  dated  at  Nottingham,  17  July,  8  Edward  III.  being  a  grant 

to  them  of  lands  in  Berkyng  and  Illeford  [Charter  Roily  8  Edward 
III.  No.  20.] 

5.  Letters  patent  dated  20  June,  27  Edward  III.  granting  licence  for  the 

acquisition  in  mortmain  by  them  of  certain  land  in  Westhammesfrith 
and  Esthamme. 
G.  Letters  patent  dated  20  March,   33  Edward  III.  granting  licence 
for  the  acquisition  in  mortmain  by  them  of  certain  land  in  Great 
Bursted. 

7.  Letters  patent  dated  20  June,  47  Edward  III.  granting  licence  for 

the  acquisition  in  mortmain  by  them  of  the  manor  of  Esthamme. 

8.  Letters  patent  dated  10  April,  3  Richard  II.  inspecting  and  confirming 

the  following : — 
(1.)  A  charter  dated  at  Westminster,  12  June,  18  Edward  I. 
[Charter  Roily  13  Edward  I.  No.  42,]  inspecting  and   con- 
lirining  the  following :  — 

a.  A  charter  dated  at  Pont  de  I'Arche  {Pontem  Archie)y  3 
June,  5  John.  [Rotuli  Cartaruniy  p.  104.] 


4  EDWARD  IV.— Pabt  III.  399 


1465.  Membranes  12-10 — cant. 

h.  A  charter  dated  at  Westminster,  14  May,  37  Henry  Ilf. 
[Charter  Roll,  37  Henry  III,  No.  13.] 
(2.)  A   charter  dated  at  Westminster,  12  June,  13  Edward  I. 
[Charter  Rollf  13  Edward  T,  No.  44],  inspecting  and  confirming 
the  following : — 

a.  A  charter  of  Henry  II.  dated  at  Winchester.      [Mon- 

asticonJ] 
by  c.  Two  charters  dated  at  Boche  Andelys  (Rupem  Ande- 
linci)y  24  October,  10  Richard  I. 
9.  Letters  patent  dated  24  May,  20  Richard  II.  granting  that  the  abbey 
shall  be  held  to  be  of  the  king's  foundation,  with  such  liberties  as 
other  houses  of  the  king's  foundation  of  the  same  order  have. 

For  5  marks  paid  in  the  hanapen 

1464*  Membranes  9-7. 

Oct.  3.  Inspeximus  and  confirmation  to  John,  the  abbot,  and  the  convent  of 

Westminster.  Waltham  Holy  Cross,  of  the  following  :— 

1.  A.  charter  dated  at  Westminster,  22  October,  13  Richard  II.  [Charter 

Roll,  11-13  Richard  IL  No.  12,]  inspecting  and  confirming  to 
Nicholas,  then  abbot,  and  the  convent,  a  charter  dated  at  Havering 
atte  Bower,  10  March,  6  Edward  III.  [Charter  Rally  6  Edward  III. 
No.  39,]  inspecting  and  confirming  the  following : — 

(1.)  A  charter  dated  at  Waltham,  29  March,  37  Henry  III. 
inspecting  and  confirming  a  charter  dated  at  No.iancourt,  14 
March,  1  Richard  I. 
(2.)  Another  charter  dated  at  Waltham,  29  March,  37  Henry  III. 
inspecting  and  confirming  another  charter  dated  at  Nunancourt, 
14  March,  [1]  Richard  L 
(3.)  A  charter  dated  at  Waltham,  30  March,  37  Henry  III. 

2.  Letters  patent  dated  12  March,  24  Edward  III.  granting  licence  for 

the  exchange  of  certain  manors. 

3.  Letters  patent  dated  28  May,  1  Richard  II.  granting  licence  for  the 

acquisition  in  mortmain  by  them  of  20s.  rent  in  Waltham  Holy  Cross. 

4.  Letters  patent  dated  20  February,  3  Richard  II.  exempting  the  abbots 

from  being  made  collectors,  taxers  or  assessors  of  tenths,  fifteenths  or 
other  subsidies. 
6.  Letters  patent  dated  17  December,  7  Richard  II.  granting  licence  for 
the  acquisition   in   mortmain  by  them  of  the  forestership  of  the 
hundred  of  Waltham. 

6.  Letters  patent  dated  8  December,  9  Richard  II.  granting  that  they 

shall  not  be  charged  with  a  corrody,  provided  that  they  keep  the 
anniversary  of  the  king  and  his  &ther. 

7.  Letters  patent  dated  6  October,  11  Richard  II.  granting  licence  for 

the  acquisition  in  mortmain  by  them  of  the  manor  of  Collyngs,  co. 
Hertford. 

8.  Letters  patent  dated  14  May,  16  Richard  II.  granting  that  no  one 

shall  lodge  in  the  abbey  against  the  will  of  the  abbot  and  convent 
except  the  king  and  queen. 

For  10  marks  paid  in  the  hanaper« 

14g5.  Membrane  7— «)n^. 

Feb.  6.  Inspeximus  and  confirmation  to  the  burgesses  of  Saltash  (Essa)  of  letters 

Westminster,  patent  dated  27  November,  5  Richard  II.  inspecting  and  confirming  a 
charter  of  Reginald  do  Valle  Torta,  granting  to  them  divers  liberties. 

For  6  marks  paid  in  the  hanaper. 


400  CALENDAB  OP  PATENT  ROLLS. 


1466.  Membrane  C. 

Feb.  3.  In&peximus  and  confirmation  to  Walter,  the  abbot,  and  the  convent  of 

Westminster.  Faversham  of  a  charter  dated  at  Lincoln,  1  September,  9  Edward  II. 
[Charter  Roll,  9  Edward  II.  No.  48,]  inspecting  and  confirming  the 
following: — 

1.  A  charter  of  Stephen  dated  at  Bermondsey.      \Monasticon,  No. 

2.  A  charter  of  the  same  dated  at  Canterbury.     \Ihid.  No.  /.] 

3.  A  charter  dated  at  St.  Edmunds,  19  May,  7  John.    [Motuli  Cartarumy 

p.  150.] 

4.  A  charter  dated  at  Ospring,  7  March,  16  John.     \Mona8ticon,  No, 

IV.-] 
6.  Letters  patent  dated  20  November,  46  Henry  III. 

6.  Letters  patent  dated  12  February,  41  Henry  III. 

7.  A  charter  of  queep  Matilda.     [Monasticony  No.  f.]' 

8.  A  charter  of  William,  count  of  Boulogne,  Warenne  and  Mortain. 

[Ibid.  No.  VJ.'] 

For  10  marks  paid  in  the  hanaper. 

Membrane  5. 

Feb.  9.  Inspeadmus  and  confirmation  to  the  burgesses  of  Aberconeweye  of  letters 

Westminster,  patent  dated  3  June,  2  Richard  11.  inspecting  and  confirming  a  charter 
dated  at  Windsor,  20  February,  5  Edward  III.  [Charter  Boll,  5  Edward 
III.  No.  82,]  inspecting  and  confirming  a  charter  dated  at  Flint,  8  Septem- 
ber, 12  Edward  I.  [Charter  Roll,  12  Edward  I.  No.  2.] 

For  20s.  paid  in  the  hanaper. 

Membrane  4. 

Feb.  12.  Inspeximus  and  confirmation  to  the  citizens  of  Exeter  of  letters  patent 
Westminster,  dated  14  July,  16  Henry  YI.  inspecting  and  confirming  letters  patent  dated 
14  December,  2  Henry  V.  inspecting  and  confirming  letters  patent  dated 
5  December,  2  Richard  II.  inspecting  and  confirming  a  charter  dated 
at  Eltham,  1  March,  3  Edward  III.  [Charter  Roll,  3  Edward  III.  No.  52,] 
inspecting  and  confirming  the  following : — 

1.  A  charter  dated  at  Westminster,  6  November,  44  Henry  III.  inspecting 

and  confirming  a  charter  of  Richard,  king  of  Almain  and  the  Romans, 
dated  at  London,  7  November,  the  third  year  of  his  reign. 

2.  A  charter  dated  at  Westminster,  12  November,  14  Edward  II.  inspecting 

and  confirming  with  additions  a  charter  dated  at  Easton  by  Stamford, 
4  May,  28  Edward  I.  [Charter  Roll,  28  Edward  L  No.  26,] 
inspecting  and  confirming  with  additions  the  following : — 
(1.)  A  charter  of  Henry  II.  dated  at  London. 
(2.)  A  charter  dated  at  Westminster,  24  March,  21  Henry  III. 
inspecting  and  confirming  a  charter  dated  at  Saumur,  16  June, 
2  John.  [Rotuli  Cartarum,  p,  70.] 

For  40;.  paid  in  the  hanaper. 

•1  Ag4  Membranes  3-1. 

March  20.        Inspeximus  and  confirmation  to  J.  bishop  of  Worcester  of  a  charter 

Westminster,  dated  at  Westminster,  27  April,  14  Richard  II.  [Charter  Roll,  14  Richard 

IL  No.  10,]  inspecting  and  confirming  to  H.  then  bishop  a  charter  dated 

at  York,  7  June,  9  Edward  III.  [Charter  Roll,  9  Edward  III.  No.  48,] 

inspecting  and  confirming  to  S.  then  bishop  the  following : — 

1.  A  charter  dated  at  Westminster,  19  February,  6  Edward  II.  [Charter 
Roll,  6  Edward  II.  No.  25,]  inspecting  and  confirming  a  charter  of 
Edgar.     [Monasticon.'} 


4  ED WAKD  IV.— Paut  III.  401 


1464.  Membrmie  3  afid  l^^cont, 

2.  A  charter  *  of  Edward  II.  inspecting  the  following  :— 

(1.)  A  chatter  (Saxon)  of  Edward  the  Confessor. 

(iJ.)  A  charter  of  WiUiam  [I.]. 

(ZS  A  charter  of  Henry  II.  dated  at  Kempsey. 

(4.)  A  charter  dated  at  S^z,  5  October,  8  Richard  I. 

(5.)  A  charter  dated  at  Codington  {Oaitii^)  15  September, 

1  Bichard  I. 
(6.)  A  charter  dated  at  S6ez,  8  August,  1  John.  [^Ratuli  Cartarum^ 

p.  10.] 
(7.)  A  charter  dated  at  the  Tower  of  London,  15  March,  16  John. 

3.  Letters  patent  dated   11  September,  19  Edward  I.  inspecting  and 

confirming  letters  patent  dated  10  February,  42  Henry  IIL 

4.  A  charter  dated  at  Westminster,  7  May,  54  Henry  II f.  [Charter  Roily 

54  Henry  IIL  m.  8.] 

5.  A  charter  dated  at  Clarendon,  6  November,  17  Edward  I.  [^Charter 

Roll,  17  Edward  L  No.  5.  J 

6.  A  charter  dated  at  Westminster,  4  March,  2  Edward  II.   [Charter 

Roll,  2  Edward  11.  No.  24.] 

7.  A  charter  dated  at  Langloy,  8  March,  2  Edward  II.  [Charter  Roll, 

2  Edward  IL  No.  22.] 

For  20  marks  paid  in  the  hanaper. 


The  ending  to  this  charter  is  omitted  on  the  roll. 


M    86914.  CO 


402 


4  EDWARD  IV.— Part  IV. 


1464.  MSMBRANBS  29-23. 

Juiie  4.  Inspeximui  and  confirmation  to  William,  the  abbot,  and  the  prior  and 

Wefltminster.  convent  of  the  monastery  of  St.  Augustine,  Canterbury,  of  the  following : — 

1.  A  charter  of  Stephen  as  follows ; — 

S,  rex  Anglorum  archiepiscapUy  episcopisy  ahhcUihuSy  comitibusj 
jutticiariis,  vicecomitibusy  haronibusy  ministris  et  otnnihus  JldelihtM 
stns  Francis  et  Anglis  totius  Anglie,  salutem,  Sciatis  quia^  pro 
salute  anime  mee  et  Mathilde  regine  uxaris  mee  et  Eustacii  jfUii 
met  et  aliorum  liherorum  meorum  et  pro  anima  regis  Henrici 
avunculi  mei  et  predecessortim  meorum  regum  Anglie,  dedi  et 
concent  deo  et  ecclesie  Sancti  Augustini  et  altari  et  abhati  et  con- 
ventui  ejusdem  ecclesie  molendinum  quod  habui  infra  civitatem 
Cantuarie  juxta  Eastbriggam  et  totum  cursum  aque  illius  molen- 
i  dini  in  restauratione  vadimonii  centum  marcarum  quod  ego  pro 

necessitate  mea  ab  eadem  ecclesia  cepi,  presentibus  baronibus  meisy 
scilicety  Wtllelmo  de  Ipra  et  comite  Oisllebertol  et  Radulpho  de  Haia 
et  aliis  multis.  Etprohibeo  ne  aliquis  prohibecLt  quin  homines  civi- 
tatis  Cantuarie  et  provincie  eant  et  veniant  ad  molendinum  prefatum 
aim  blado  suo  ad  molandum  ita  bene  et  plenarie  sicut  melius  et 
plenius  fecerunt  tempore  regis  Henriciy  avunculi  meiy  et  meo  tem- 
pore postea  dum  fnolendinum  prefatum  in  mea  manu  fuit,  Quare 
volo  et  firmiter  precipio  quodpredicta  ecclesia  Sancti  Augustini  et 
altare  et  abbas  et  conventus  ejusdem  ecclesie  teneant  et  habeant 
predictum  molendinum  cum  omnibus  libertatibus  et  consuetudinibus 
eidem  pertinentibus  ad  servicium  altaris  illius  ecclesie  ita  bene  et 
in  pace  et  libere  et  quiete  et  honorifice  sicut  ego  vel  aliquis  rex 
predecessor  meus  melius  et  liberius  et  quietius  tenuit.  Testibus 
Wtllelmo  de  Ipra,  Wtllelmo  Mart[el'\y  et  Ricardo  de  Lucy^  et 
Radulpho  Picoty  et  Willelmo  de  Aisnefordy  apud  Oxeneford, 

2.  Letters  patent  of  ihe  same  as  follows : — 

S,  rex  Anglorum  vicecomitibus  et  prepositis  et  burgensibus  et  omnibus 
fidelibus  suis  CantuariCy  scUutem,  Prohibeo  ne  aliquis  prohibeat 
quin  namines  civitatis  Cantuarie  et  provincie  eant  et  veniant  ad 
molendtnum  quod  concessi  et  dedi  deo  et  ecclesie  Sancti  Augustini 
infra  civitatem  Cantuarie  cum  blado  suo  ad  molandum  ita  bene  et 
plenarie  sicut  melius  et  plenius  solebant  facere  tempore  regis 
jffenrici  avuncult  met  et  meo  tempore  postea  dum  molendinum 
predictum  tn  mea  manu  fuit*  Teste  Roberto  de  ^[eer],  apud 
Cantuariam. 

3.  A  charter  of  William  [I.]  as  follows : — 

W.  rex  Anglorum  L.  archiepiscopo  et  0-.  Baiocensi  episcopo  et  H, 

dapifero  et  omnibus  fidelibus  suis  Frandgenis  et  Anglicis  de  comi» 

tatu  de  Chenty  salutem.  Sciatis  me  dedisse  Widoni  abbctti  abbatiam 

Sancti  Augustini  cum  omnibus  terris  et  consuetudinibus  que  ad  ean- 

dem  abbatiam  pertinebant  ea  die  qua  rex  Edwardtis  fuit  vivus  et 

mortuns.   Precipio  ergo  vobis  ut  itafadatis  eum  habere  terras  suas 

et  consuetudines  in  dominio  omnes  quas  abbatia  habebat  in  dominio 

ea  die  qua  rex  Edwardus  Juit  vivus  et  mortuus  et  omnes  illas  in  ser^ 

vicio  quas  abbatia  eadem  die  habebat  in  servicio,     Et  sciatis  me 

nolle  pati  quod  aliquis  ei  injuriam  faciat  set  omnia  sua  cum  tnagno 

honore  teneat.     Teste  episcopo  Dunelmensi. 


4  EDWARD  IV.— Part  IV.  403 


Si 


1464.  Mefnbraties  2^23 — cotit, 

4.  Another  charter  of  the  same  as  follows  : — 

Willehnns  rex  Anglarum  L.  archiepiscopo^  L.  Kancie  vicecomUi, 
Hugoni  de  Muntfart  ovmibusque  haronihus  7/ieis  in  Kioent  Francis 
et  Anglis,  saltUem,  Sciatic  quod  omnes  decime  quas  homines  frU" 
tris  mei  Odonis  episcopi  Baiocensis  et  comitis  Cancie  dederunt 
dicto  Augusiino  et  fratribus  mea  licentia  atque  concessu  date 
sunt.  Quapropter  mando  et  precipio  ut  amodo  jam  dictus  Sanctus 
et  locus  etfratres  inibi  deo  servientes  eas  habeant  teneant  possideant 
in  perpetuum.  Testibus  eodem  epfscopo  0.  Baiocensi  et  Goffrido 
episcopo  Constantinensi  et  Roberto  et  Rogerio  comitibus^  apud 
Wyndesoram, 

5.  Letters  patent  dated  24  May^lS  Edward  I.  being  a  grant  to  Th[onias], 

then  abbot,  and  the  convent  of  the  hundreds  of  Ringesla,  Elongate 
and  Dnnhaniford,  which  Nicholas,  late  abbot,  had  surrendered  to  the 
king. 

6.  Letters  patent  dated  10  March,  36  Edward  III.  releasing  all  claim  of 

the  king  to  the  manor  of  Dene  and  a  tenement  in  the  Isle  of 
Thanet. 

7.  A  charter  dated  at  Westminster,  12  May,  3G  Edward   III.  [Charter 

Roily  36  Edward  III,  No.  3,]  inspecting  and  confirming  to 
Thomas,  then  abbot,  and  the  convent  a  charter  dated  at  ^Westminster, 
18  Julv,  20  Edward  11.  [Charter  Roll,  20  Edward  11,  No.  6,] 
inspecting  and  confirming  to  Ralph,  then  abbot,  and  the  convent  the 
following : — 

L)  A  charter  of  Athelbert.     [Motiasticon.    No.  xJ] 

[2i.)  Another  charter  of  the  same.     [Ibid,  No.  //•] 

(3.)  A.  charter  ofEadbald  dated  618. 

(4.)  A  charter  of  Edmund  dated  944.     (Latin  and  Saxon.) 

(5.)  A  charter  of  Adelwlf  dated  850. 

(6.)  A  charter  of  Cnud  to  Aelstan  then  abbot. 

(7.)  A  charter  of  Edward  the  Confessor. 

(8.)  Another  charter  (Saxon)  of  the  same.     [Monasticon^  No. 

(9.)  A  charter  of  William  1.  dated  at  Rouen.     [Ibid,  No.  LX,] 

(10.)  Another  charter  of  the  same  dated  at  Windsor,  1070. 

(11.)  Another  charter  of  the  same.     [Ibid^  No.  Lix.] 

(12.)  Anothei*  charter  of  the  same  dated  at  Windsor. 

(13.)  A  charter  of  Henrj  I.  to  Hugh,  then  abbot,  dated  at 
Westminster. 

(14.)  Another  charter  of  the  same  dated  at  Windsor  at  Whitsun- 
tide in  the  year  in  which  he  gave  his  daughter  to  tho 
Emperor. 

(15.)  Another  charter  of  the  same  dated  at  Westminster  at 
Christmas. 

(16.)  Another  charter  of  the  same  dated  at  London  on  the 
Kalends  of  September. 

(17.)  Another  charter  of  the  same  dated  at  Westminster. 

(18.)  A  charter  of  Richard  L  to  Roger,  then  abbot,  dated  at 
Canterbury,  3  September.     [Monasticony  No.  LVli.'] 

(19.)  A  charter  dated  at  Orival,  15  June,  5  3ohn[Rotuli  Cartamm, 

p.  106.] 
(20.)  A  charter  dated  at  Canterbury,  27  July,  21  Edward  I. 

8.  Letters  patent  dated  15  September,  16  Richard  U.  granting  licence 
for  the  acquisition  in  mortmain  by  them  of  certain  lands  in  Menstre, 
the  Isle  of  Thanet,  the  suburb  of  Canterbury  and  Reculvere. 

9.  Letters  patent  dated  23  March,  19  Richard  II.  granting  licence  for  the 
acquisition  in  mortmain  by  ihem  of  certain  messuages  in  the  parish 
of  St.  Mary,  WoUechirchehawe,  London. 

cc  2 


404  CALENDAR  OF  PATENT  ROLLS. 


1464.  Membranes  29-23-— eon^. 

10.  Letters  patent  dated  7  Julj,  21  Richard  II.  granting  licence  for  the 
acquisition  in  mortmain  by  them  of  a  messuage  and  shops  in  the 
parish  of  St  Dionis,  Bakchirche,  London. 

11.  A  charter  (Saxon)  of  Edward   the  Confessor.      [Kemhley  vol.  iv.^ 

p.  193.] 

12.  A  charter  of  Henry  I.  dated  at  Westminster  at  Christmas  [No,  (15) 
above. 1 

1 3.  A  charter  of  Stephen  as  follows  : — 

S.  rex  Anglorum  archiepiscopis,  espiscopisy  abbatibus^  justiciariis, 
comitibuSy  vicecomitibus  et  omnibus  ministris  et  Jldelibus  suis 
Francis  et  Anglis  totius  Anglie^  salutem,  Sciatis  me  dedisse  et 
concessisse  abbati  et  monachis  Sancti  Augustini  Cantuarie  quod 
ipsi  habeant  feriam  apud  Cantuariam  ad  festum  apostolorum 
Petri  et  J^auli,  quod  est  tertio  KaL  Juliiy  et  incipiat  tertia  die 
ante  festum  et  duret  per  sex  dies.  Et  precipio  quod  mnnes  ad 
earn  venientes  et  in  ea  morantes  et  ab  ea  redeuntes  habeant  meam 
firmampacem  ita  quod  nemo  eis  injuriam  vel  contumeliam  faciat 
super  X  libras  forisfa^^urcts  nee  in  civitate  vel  extra  aliquis 
theloneum  per  hos  dies  capiat  nisi  monavhi  et  servientes  eorum. 
Testibus  Matilda  regina  et  Turglisiol  de  Abrinclu]  et  Adam  de 
Belvaco  et  Eusthachio  de  Fiennes  et  Huberto  camerario^  apud 
Cantuariam. 

14.  A  charter  of  Henry  I.  as  follows : — 

Henricus  dei  gratia  rex  Anglorum  omnibus  episcopisy  comitibus^ 
vicecomitibus  et  omnibus  optimatibus  suis  Francigenis  et  Anglienis 
in  illis  comitatibus  in  quibus  Sanctus  Augustinus  habet  terras, 
salutem.  Sciatis  me  dedisse  Deo  ac  Sancto  Augustino  etfratribus 
ut  habeant  eortim  saca  et  socna  et  pads  fracturam  et  pugnam  in 
dotno  factam  et  vie  assaltus  et  latrones  in  terra  sua  captos 
latronumque  susceptionem  vel  pastionem  super  illorum  proprios 
homines  infra  civitatem  et  extra  theoloneumque  suum  in  terra  et 
ifi  aqua  atque  consuetudinem  que  dicitur  teames  et  super  omnes 
allodiarios  quos  eis  habeo  datos.  Nee  volo  consentire  ut  aliquis  in 
aliqua  re  de  iis  se  intermittat  nisi  eorum  prepositi  quibus  ipsi  hec 
commendaverint,  Qtiare  habeo  has  consuetudines  Deo  datas  et 
Sancto  Atigustino  pro  redemptione  anime  mee,  sicut  Willelmus 
pater  meus  et  frater  meus  ante  fecerant^  et  nolo  consentire  ut 
aliquis  hec  infringed  sicuti  meam  amicitiam  vult  habere.  Testibus 
Willelmo  de  Welaruuast  et  Turstino  capellano,  apud  Westmon- 
asteriumy  in  Pentecosta. 

15.  A  charter  dated  at  Guildford,  12  October^  1  Richard  I.  granting  the 

same  privileges  as  the  preceding.  Witnessses : — H.  bishop  of 
Durham,  G.  bishop  of  Rochester,  R.  bishop  of  London,  G.  bishop 
elect  of  Winchester,  H.  bishop  elect  of  Salisbury. 

By  the  hand  of  William  the  chancellor. 

16.  A  charter  dated  at  Westminster,  28  April,  29  Edward  III.  granting  to 

them  a  fair  yearly  at  their  manor  of  Lenham,  co.  Kent.  [Charter 
Roily  29  Edward  III.  No.  12.] 

17.  A  charter  dated  at  Westminstei,   20  November,   34  Edward  III. 

granting  to  them  free  warren  in  all  their  demesne  lands  in  the 
Isle  of  Thanet.  [Charter  Roll,  34  and  35  Edward  III.  iVo.  11.] 

18.  A  charter  dated  at  Westminster,  12  May,  36  Edward  III.  [Charter 

Roily  26  Edward  III  No.  2,]  inspecting  and  confirming  a  charter 
dated  [Dover,  22  May,  6]  Edward  II.  [  Charter  Roily  6  Edward  II. 
No.  3,]  inspecting  and  confirming  with  additions  the  following : — 
(1.)  A  charter  of  Henry  I.  dated  at  Winchester  at  Easter. 
(2.)  A  charter  dated  at  Westminster,  18  February,  11  Henry  III. 

inspecting  and  confirming  a  charter  dated   15  June,  5  John. 

[Rotuli  Cartarumfp.  105.] 


4  EDWARD  IV.— Part  IV.  405 


1464.  Membranes  29-23^eo9i/. 

(3.)  A  charter  dated  at  Westminster,  I  April,  54  Henry  III. 
(4.)  Letters  patent  dat^  27  July,  21  Edward  I. 
(5.)  A  charter    dated    Westminster,   14  June,  22    Edward    I. 
[Charter  Boll,  22  Edward  L  No.  24.] 
19.  Letters  patent  dated  6  May,  15  Richard  II.  being  a  grant  to  the 
prior  and  conveDt  of  the  custody  of  the  abbey  during  voidanoe. 

For  iOs.  paid  in  the  hanaper. 


1465,  MsMBRANES  22  and  21. 

Feb.  20.         Ittspeximus  and  confirmation  to  the  prior  and  convent  of  St.  Denys  by 
Westminster.   Southampton  of  the  following  : — 

1.  A  charter  dated  Westminster,  7  February,  13  Richard  II.  [^Charter 

Roily  11-13  Richard   II,  No,  7,]   inspecting  and   confirming  to 
Richiird  de  Staunford,  then  prior,  and  the  convent  the  following : — 
(1.)  A  charter  of  Henry  II.  date<l  at  Westminster. 
(2.)  Another  charter  of  the  same  dated  at  Westminster. 
(3.)  A  charter  of  the  same  dated  at  Salishury. 
(4.)  A  charter  of  Richard  I.  dated  at  Chinon,  18  June. 
(5.)  A  charter  dated  at  Clarendon,   1  August,  17  Edward  III. 
[^Charter  Roll,    17   Edward  III,   No,   15,]   inspecting  and 
confirming  a  charter  dated  at  Westminster,  20  April,  10  Edward 
II.  [Charter  Roll,  10  Edward  IL  No.  17,]  inspecting  and 
confirming  the  following : — 

a,  Ik  Two  charters  of  Henry  I.    [Monasticon.'] 
c,  d.  Two  charters  of  Henry  II.  dated  at  Winchester. 
e.  A  charter  of  the  same  dated  at  Rouen. 
/.  A  charter  of  the  same  dated  at  Salisbury.     [Monasticon,'] 
g.  Letters  patent  of  the  same  dated  at  Porchester. 
h.  Letters  patent  of  the  same  dated  at  Romsey. 
i.  A  charter  of  Stephen  dated  at  Portsmouth. 
j.  A  charter  of  the  same  dated  at  Winchester.  [MonaHicon,'\ 
k,  A  charter  dated  at  Roche  Andelys,  1  Decemher,  10  Richard 
I.  confirming  a  charter  dated  at  Warwick,  18  September. 
[Momuticon.'} 
L  A  charter  dated  at  Bourne,  9  January,  2  John. 
m.  Letters  patent  dated  9  February,  42  Henry  III. 
n.  Lettera  patent  dated  14  May,  33  Edward  L 
(6.)  Letters  patent  dated  1  June,  21  Edward  III. 

2.  Letters  patent  dated  4    February,  1    Richard    II.  inspecting    and 

COD  firming  a  charter  dated  at  Westminster,  6  January,  6  Edwitfd  III. 
[Charter  Roll,  6  Edward  III.  No.  64.] 

For  2  marks  paid  in  the  hanaper. 

Membranes  20  and  19. 

Feb.  8.  Inspeximus  and  confirmation  to  the  abbess  and  convent  of  St.  Saviour 

Westminster,  and  St-.  Mary  and  St.  Bridget,  Syon,  of  the  order  uf  St.  Augustine,  founded 
by  Henry  V.  under  the  rule  of  St  Bridget,  of  (1)  letters  patent  dated 
16  December,  1  Edward  IV.  (see  p.  144),  granting  to  them  divers  lands  and 
privileges,  and  (2)  the  enrolment  (French)  of  an  act  in  Parliament,  2  May, 
9  Henry  V.  [Rolls  of  Parliament,  vol.  iv.  p.  140,]  and  confirmation  to 
them  of  all  privileges  granted  to  them  hy  bulls  of  Pope  Martin  V.  and 
Urban  VI.  and  Baldassarre,  bishop  of  Tusculum,  then  Pope  John  XXIII ; 
saving  to  the  king's  subjects  aU  rights  reserved  to  them,  and  to  the  mayors 
of  London  their  scrutiny,  supervision  and  correction  in  the  river  Thames. 
By  K.  hy  authority  of  Parliament  and  for  5  marks  paid  in  the  hanaper^ 


406  CALENDAR  OF  PATENT  ROLLS, 


1465.  MbMBRANBS   18  AND   17. 

Feb.  3.  Inspeanmus  and  confirmation  to  the  abbot  and  monks  of  Byland  of  a 

Westminster,  charter  dated  Westminster,  7  May,  16  Richard  II.  [Charter  Roll,  15^17 
Richard  II.  No.  18,]  inspecting  and  confirming  with  additions  letters 
patent  dated  1  February,  1  Richard  II.  inspecting  and  confirming  a  charter 
dated  at  Westmmster,  30  May,  33  Edward  III.  [Charter  Roll,  3S  Edward 
III.  No,  12,]  inspecting  and  confirming  a  charter  dated  at  York,  22  March, 
12  Edward  IL  [Charter  Roll,  \2  Edward  IL  No.  21,]  inspecting  and  con- 
firming a  charter  dated  at  Westminster,  13  ^November,  56  Henry  III. 
[Charter  Roll,  56  Henri/  HI.  m.  6,]  inspecting  and  confirming  a  charter 
dated  at  Windsor,  20  February,  31  Henry  III.  [Charter  Roll,  31  Henry 
III.  m,  10.]  For  o  marks  paid  in  the  hanaper. 

1464.  Membrane  16. 

March  21.       Ihspexirmis  and  confirmation  to  the  burgesses  of  the  New  Borough  of 
Westminster.  Medina  in  the  Isle  of  Wight  of  letters  patent  dated  5  October,  17  Richard 

II.  inspecting  and  confirming  letters  patent  dated  8  May,  16  Richard  II. 
being  an  exemplification  of  letters  patent  dated  29  February,  26  Edward 

III.  inspecting  and  confirming  a  charter  of  Isabel  de  Fortibus,  sometime 
countess  of  Albemarle  and  Devon  and  lady  of  the  Island,  being  a  grant  to 
them  of  divers  liberties.  For  4  marks  paid  in  the  hanaper. 

1465. 

March  1.        ^Inspeximus  and  confirmation  to  the  burgesses  of  Buelt  in  Wales  of  a 

Westminster,  charter  dated  at  Westminster,  4  November,  6  Edward  I.,  being  a  licence  for 

them  to  form  a  guild  merchant  and  a  grant  to  them  of  divers  liberties. 

[Charter  Roll,  6  Edward  I.  No.  4.]  For  1  mark  paid  in  the  hanaper. 

March  3.         Mandate  to  all  bailiffs  and  others  to  peimit  Gilbert  Carnwith  alias  Bilton, 

Westminster,  chaplain,  born  in  the  town  of  Uxton  in  Scotland,  dwelling  at  Wygenhale 

within  the  realm  of  England,  who  has  taken  an  oath  of  fealty,  to  inhabit  the 

realm  peaceably  and  enjoy  his  goods.  By  p.s. 

Feb.  8.  Revocation  of  the  protection  with  clause  volumiis,  for  one  year,  lately 

Westminster,  granted  by  letters  patent  to  John  Chaumberleyn  late  of  Graunt  Fount, 
CO.  Cornwall,  'gentilman,'  alias  John  Chamberleyn  late  of  Great 
Gernemuth,  eo.  Norfolk,  ^  gentilman/  staying  on  the  king's  service  in  the 
company  of  John  Wode,  esquire,  victualler  of  the  king's  town  and  castle 
of  Calais  and  the  marches  there  in  the  parts  of  Picardy  on  the  safe< 
custody,  defence  and  victualling  of  the  same,  on  certificate  by  the  sheriff  of 
Norfolk  that  he  delays  at  Norwich. 

1454.  Membranes  15-8. 

Dec.  20.         Inspeadmus  and  confirmation  to  Thomas  Wysbech,  the  abbot,  and  the 
Westminster,  convent  of  Thorneye  of  the  following : — 

1.  A  charter  dated  at  Westminster,  7  February,  22  Edward  III.  [Charter 
Roily  22  Edward  III.  No,  36,]  inspecting  and  confirming  the 
following : — 

(1.)  A  charter  dated  at  Langley,  6  December,  8  Edward  II, 
[Charter  Roll,  8  Edward  I  I.  No.  37,]  inspecting  and  confirm- 
ing the  following : — 

a.  A  charter  of  Edgar.     \^MonarSticon,  No.  in.'] 

b.  A  charter  of  Henry  [I.]  to  Robei-t,  then  abbot,  dated  at 
Ditton. 

c.  A  ^barter  of  Stephen  to   Walter,  then  abbot,  dated  at 
London. 

d.  A  charter  of  the  same  dated  at  St.  Edmunds. 

€.  A  charter  of  the  same  to  Boliert,  then  abbot,  dated  at 
Wwitminst<*r. 


4  EDWABD  IV.— Part  IV.  407 


1464.  Membra»ies  15-8 — cont, 

(2.)  Letters  patent  dated  28  September,  8  Edward  II. 

(3.)  Letters  patent  dated  17  August,  1  Edward  III. 

(4,)  Letters  patent  dated  4  November,  17  Edward  III. 

(5.)  A  writing  of  Richard  de  Clare,  earl  of  Gloucester  and  Hert- 
f<»rdy  dated  at  Loudon,  29  January,  38  Henry  III.,  inspecting 
and  confirming  a  charter  of  Alice  the  mother  of  earl  William 
his  ancestor.     [MofuuHcany  No.  xxvu'\ 

(16.)  Div^s- private  gran t8« 

2.  A  charter  dated  at  Westminster,  7  February,  22  Edward  III.  ^Charter 

Roily    22    Edward    IIL  No,  35;  Mona€iiconj    No,   xxxriii.] 
inspecting  and  confirming  the  following : — 

(1.)  A  charter    dated  at  Langley,   6  December,   8  Edward  IL 

iCharter    Roily    8    Edward   IL    No.    36,]    inspectmg    and 

confirming  the  following  : — 

a.  A  charter  of  Heury  II.  dated  at  London. 

b.  A  charter  of  the  same  dated  at  Lincoln. 

c.  A  charter  of  the  same  to  Walter,  then  abbot,  dated  at 
Lincoln. 

d.  A  charter  dated  at  Westminster,  1  May,  11  Henry  III. 

€,  A  charter  dated  at  Newark,  23  November,  12  Henry  III., 
inspecting  and  confirming  archarter  of  Henry  I. 

/•  A  charter  dated  at  Peterborough,  6  August,  52  Henry  III. 
[Charter  Roily  52  Henry  IIL  m,  5.] 

g.  Letters  patent  dated  1  February,  20  Edward  I. 

h,  A  charter  dated  at  Westminster,  20  October,  30  Edward  I. 
[Charter  Roll,  30  Edward  L  No  12.] 

t.  Letters  patent  dated  5  July,  32  Edward  I. 

J.  A  writing  of  Nigel,  bishop  of  Ely. 
(2.)  A  writing  of  Hugh,  bishop  of  Ely. 
(3.)  Divers  private  grants. 

3.  Letters  patent  dated  7  February,  22  Edward  III.,  inspecting  and 
X  confirming  the  following : — 

(I.^  Letters  patent  dated  20  November,  8  Edward  II. 

(2.),  (3.)  Two  writings  of  Humphrey  de  Bohun,  earl  of  Hereford 

and  Essex. 
4.)  A  writing  of  Hervey,  bishop  of  Ely. 
[5.)  A  writing  of  Nigel,  bishop  of  Ely. 
(6.)  Divers  private  granta. 

4.  Letters  patent  dated  27  May,  22  Edward  III.  granting  to  them  the 
custody  of  the  abbey  during  voidance. 

For  4  marks  paid  in  the  hanaper. 


{i 


1465.  Mbmbranb  7. 

Feb.  12.         Iiutpeximns  and' confirmation  to  the  abbot  and  convent  of  Robertsbridge 
Wcatminstor.   of  the  following  : — 

1.  Letters  patent  dated  7  July,  4  Richard  II.  inspecting  and  confirming 

a  charter  dated  at  Stamford,  20  June,  11  Edward  HI.  [Charter  Roll 
11  Edward  IIL  No.  24;  Monasticony  f.  p.  667],  inspecting  and 
confirming  a  charter  dated  at  Westminster,  4  November,  53  Henry 
III.  [Charter  Roily  53  Henry  IIL  m,  14,]  inspecting  and  confirming, 
at  the  instance  of  Peter  de  Champvent,  a  charter  dated  at  West- 
minster, 8  June,  37  Henry  III.  inspecting  and  confirming  a, charter 
dated  at  Roche  Andelys,  9  November,  10  Richard  I.  by  the  hand  of 
Master  Roseell,  vice-chancellor. 

2.  Letters  patent  dated  20  November,  19  Richard  II.  inspecting  and 

confirming  letters  patent  (French^  of  John,  duke  of  Brittany  and 
earl  of  Richmond,  dated  at  London,  19  June,  51  Edward  III.  and 
at  Crowhurf»t,  2ft  November,  1  Richard  IT.  respectively. 


408  CALENDAR  OP  PATENT  BOLLS. 


3^4,55^  Membrane  7 — eont, 

3.  A  charter  dated  at  Westminster,  9  June,  37  Henry  III.  being  a  grant 
to  them  of  free  warren  in  all  their  demesne  lands  in  the  counties  of 
Sussex  and  Kent,  provided  tbej  be  not  within  the  bounds  of  the 
forest,  so  that  no  one  shall  enter  their  lands  to  hunt  therein  without 
licence  from  them  under  forfeiture  of  10/.,  and  of  a  market  weekly 
on  Mondays  in  the  town  of  Bobertsbridffe  and  a  fair  there  yearly 
for  three  days  at  the  Exaltation  of  the  H<ny  Cross.  Witnesses : — P., 
bishop  of  Hereford,  John  Manseil,  provost  of  Beverley,  Master 
William  de  Kilkenn',  archdeacon  of  Coventry,  Bertram  de  Crioill, 
John  de  Lessynton,  John  de  Grey,  Henry  de  Wengham,  Bobert 
Walerand,  Stephen  Banthan,  Nicholas  de  Sancto  Mauro,  Imbert 
Pugeys  and  others.  For  8  marks  paid  in  the  hanaper. 


Membranes  6-1. 

Feb.  19.         Inspeximus  and  confirmation  to  John,  the  abbot,  and  the  convent  of 
Westminster.   Bamsey  of  the  following  : — 

1.  A    charter  of    Edgar.      [Monastican,   No.   viii,;    CharttUary    of 

Ramsey  Abbey ^  vol,  \\,p.  51.] 

2.  A  charter  of  Henry  L  dated  at  Argenton.     IMonasticon^  No.  xvi,'] 

3.  A  charter  of  the  same  dated  at  Braunton  in  the  year  in  which  he  gave 

his  daughter  to   the  Emperor.     [Monasticon,  No,  xvil, ;  ChartU' 
lary,  ii.  101.] 

4.  A  charter  of  Henry  11.  dated  at  Lincoln.     IChartulary,  ii.  62,'] 

5.  A  chaiter  of  the  same  as  follows : — 

ff,  rex  Any  lie  et  dux  Normannie  et  Aquitanie  et  comes  Andeyavie 
episcopo  lincolniensi  et  justiciariis  et  vicecotnittbus  baronibus  et 
omnibus  fidelibus  suis^  Francis  et  Any  lis  de  Huntendonesdra  et 
totius  Any  lie  salutem.  Sciatis  me  concessisse  et  con^rmasse  sancto 
Benedicto  de  Ramesia  et  abbati  et  monachis  et  Sancto  Ivoni  unam 
feriam  apud  Sanctum  Yvonem  de  Slepe^  que  incipieU  die  Lune  in 
ebdomada  JPasche  et  duret  usque  in  iliem  Lune  sequentem  et  toto 
die  illoj  sicut  carta  reyis  Henrici  avi  mei  testatur.  Et  habeatferia 
ilia  socam  suam  et  sacam  et  tol  et  theam  et  infanyenetheof  et 
omnes  alias  libertates  et  consuetiulines  suas  sicut  aliqua  jeria 
fnelius  habet  in  tola  Anylia.  Et  voio  et  precipio  quod  omnes 
undecumque  ad  earn  venientes  et  in  ea  existentes  et  inde  rever- 
tentes  habeant  meam  firmam  pacetn  dando  abbati  sttas  rectcu 
consuetudines  ne  super  hoc  ab  aliqno  alicubi  injuste  disturbentur 
super  decern  libras  forisfactnre.  Testibfts,  Thoma  cancellario^ 
Reyinaldo  comite  Cornubie,  Roberto  comite  LeyrecestriCj  et 
Roberto  de  Novo  Buryo,  apud  Lincolniam, 

6.  A  charter  dated  at  Harcourt,  7  June,  4  John.     [Chartulary,  ii.  297. 

7.  A  charter  dated  at  Windsor,  3  September,  35  Henry  III.     [Charter 

Roll,  35  Henry  III,  m.  3 ;   Cluirtulary,  ii.  65.] 
S.  A  charter  dated  at  Cambridge,  20  March,  51  Henry  III.     [^Charter 
Roll,  51  Henry  111.,  m.  7 :  Chartulary,  ii.  294.] 

9.  A  chart-er  dated  at  Westminster,  14  May,  21  Edward  I.  [^Charter  Roll^ 

21  Edward  /.,  No.  26;  Chartulary,  ii.  298.] 

10.  Letters  patent  dated   20  February,  3  Bichard   II.  inspecting  and 
confirming  to  Edmund,  then  abbot,  and  the  convent  the  following :— . 

(1.)  A  charter  dated  at  Newcastle-on-Tyne,  10  July  (sic),  8  Ed- 
ward HI.  [Charter  Roll,  8  Edward  IIL  No.  29;  Chartulary, 
ii.  70-101,]  inspecting  and  confirming  to  Simon,  then  abbot, 
and  the  convent  the  following  : — 
a.  A  charter  of  Edward  tlip  Confessor.     [Monasticon,  No» 

IX.] 


4  EDWARD  IV.— Part  IV.  109 


14}65.  Membranes  6-1 — cont, 

h.  Another  charter  (Saxon)  of  the  same. 

c.  Another  charter  (^xon)  of  the  same.  [Alonasticouy  No, 
X.-] 

d.  A  charter  of  Henry  [I.]  dated  at  Brigstock. 
6.  A  charter  of  thfi  same  dated  at  Braunton. 

/.  A  charterer  Henry  [II.]  dated  at  Lincoln. 

g.  A  charter  of  Henry  [I.]  dnted  at  Winchester. 

A.  A  charter  of  Henry  [II.]  dated  at  Lincoln. 

t.  Another  charter  of  the  same  dated  at  Lincoln. 

j,  A  charter  of  Richard  I.  dated  at  Westminster,  6  October. 

k.  A  charter  dated  at  Winchester,  19  June,  37  Henry  III. 
inspecting  and  confirming  with  additions  charters  dated 
at  Chiiworth,  22  October,  2  John,  and  at  Ghiildford,  1] 
October,  2  John.     [Ratuli  Cartarum^  p.  76.] 

/.  A  charter  dated  at  Newcastlo-on-Tyne,  23  April>  19 
Edward  L  inspecting  and  confirming  with  additions  a 
charter  dated  at  Winchester,  16  June,  37  Henry  III.  inspect- 
ing and  confirming  a  charter  of  William  I.  dated  4  Kal. 
Jan.  1077. 
(2.)  A  charter  dated  at  Ipswich,  Id  June,  12  Edward  III. 
[Charter  Roll,  12  Edward  IIL  No.  21 ;  ChaHtUary,  L  259.] 

For  12/.  paid  in  the  hanaper. 


410 


5  EDWARD  IV.— Part  I. 


1465. 


Feb.  12. 

Wcstmineter. 


May  4. 

Wefitminster. 


May  10. 
Westminster. 


May  8. 

Westminster. 


May  7. 
Westminster. 


May  15. 

Westminster. 


May  15. 

Westminster. 


May  15. 
Westminster. 


May  1. 

Westminster. 


May  16. 

Webtminster. 


Membrane  32. 

Pardons  of  outlawry  to  the  following : — 

William  Syward  late  of  Bermondesey,  co.  Surrey,  'gentilman,'  for 
not  appearing  before  the  justices  of  the  Bench  to  answer  John, 
abbot  of  the  monastery  of  St.  Saviour,  Bermondesey,  touching  a  debt 
of  37/.  3*.  4</.,  he  having  surrendered  to  the  Flete  prison,  as 
Eobert  Danby,  chief  justice  of  the  Bench,  has  certified.  Surrey. 

Vacated  because  elsewhere  in  the  fourth  year. 

Bobert  Damett  of  Upwell,  co.  Cambridge,  ^  husbondman,'  for  not 
appearing  when  sued  with  John  Tole  of  St.  Edmunds,  co.  Suffolk, 
'  husbondman,'  to  answer  Robert  Dockyng  touching  a  trespass. 

Lincoln. 

Thomas  Heynde  of  Doncastre,  co.  York,  '  yoman,'  for  not  appearing 
before  John  Prysot  and  his  fellows,  justices  of  the  Bench  of  the 
late  king,  to  answer  Thomas  Sc&useby,  citizen  and  mercer  of  York, 
touching  a  debt  of  40s.  City  of  York. 

Thomas  Davy  late  of  Asplegyse,  co.  Bedford,  *  husbondman,'  for  not 
appearing  before  the  justices  of  the  Bench  to  answer  William 
Bertram  touching  debts  of  6/.  and  10/.  Surrey  and  Middlesex. 

Bobert  Chudley,  late  of  London, '  gentilman,'  for  not  appearing  before 
John  Prysot  and  his  fellows,  justices  of  the  Bench  of  the  late  king, 
to  answer  Philip  Malpas,  citizen  and  merchant  of  London,  touching 
a  debt  of  160/.  London. 

Peter  Baylly  late  of  Sampford  Courtenay,  co.  Devon,  ^  husbondman/ 
for  not  appearing  before  the  justices  of  the  Bench  to  answer  John 
Foweraker  touching  a  trespass.  Southampton. 

Thomas  Tavemer  late  of  London,  ^  Salter,'  for  not  appearing  to  answer 
Stephen  Morys  touching  a  debt  of  33/.  Middlesex. 

Thomas  Slyfeld  late  of  Great  Bokeham,  co.  Surrey,  ^gentilman,'  for 
not  appearing  to  answer  Richard  Lee,  citizen  and  alderman  of 
London,  touching  a  debt  of  115/.  8*.  Sd.  Surrey, 

John  Delf  late  of  Norwich,  chaplain,  for  not  appearing  before  John 
Prisot  and  his  fellows,  justices  of  the  Bench  of  the  late  king,  to 
answer  John  Loveday,  citizen  of  Norwich,  *  fuller,'  touching  a  debt 
of  40*.  City  of  Norwich. 

William    Trumpour  late  of   Chalflmnt    St.    Giles,   co.   Buckingham, 

*  husbondman,'  for  not  appearing  before  the  justices  of  the  Bench  to 
answer  a  plea  that  he  render  100*.  to  Bobert  son  of  Reginald 
Derlyngton  and  William  Clyfford,  citizens  and  fishmongers  of  London, 
executors  of  the  will  of  Reginald  Derlyngton,  late  citizen  and 
fishmonger  of  London.  Middlesex. 

Thomas  Yyncent  of  Bernak,  co.  Northampton,  'gentilman,'  for  not 
appearing  to  answer  Richard  Wylle,  yeoman  of  the  king's  chamber, 
touching  a  debt  of  4/.  Middlesex. 

John  Mounteslond  of  Horigge,  co.  Devon,  *  husbondman,'  for  not 
appearing  to  answer  Richard  Yerdo  and  Robert  Kyrkham  touching 
a  trespass  committed  by  him  and  William  Mounteslond  of  Horigge 
the  elder,  *  yoraan,'  and  William  Mount«vlond  of  Ipplepen,  co.  Devon, 

*  labourer,'  Devon. 


5  EDWARD  IV.— Part  I. 


411 


1465. 

May  14. 

Westmiuster. 


May  2. 

Westminster. 


May  20. 

Westminstor. 


Majr  2. 

Westminster. 


May  22. 

Westminster. 


Membrane  32 — coni* 

Bobert  Potte  of  Stone  in  the  Isle  of  Ozney,  co.  Kent,  ^  hunbondman/  for 
not  i^ipearing  to  answer  Alexander  Bogger  touching  a  debt  of  4 
marks.  Kent. 

Thomas  Taillour  late  of  Mereworth,  co.  Kent,  *'  smyth,'  for  the  same. 

Kent. 

Bobert  Melton  of  Torlaston,  co.  Nottingham,  clerk,  for  not  appearing 
to  answer  William  FitzWilliam,  esquire,  touching  of  debt  of  10/. 

York. 

Simon  Blyaunt,  or  Bleant,  of  Byngesell  or  Byngefeld,  co.  Suffolk, 
'  gentilman,'  for  not  appearing  before  Bichard  Neuton  and  his  fellows, 
justices  of  the  Bench  of  the  late  king,  to  answer  Thomas  Gambrigge, 
prior  of  Eye,  touching  a  debt  of  40/.,  Bobert  Berde  touching  a  debt 
of  6  marks,  Beginald  Bous  touching  a  debt  of  40/.,  John  Coler  of 
London,'  purse  van  t,'  touching  a  debt  of  10/.,  John  Hopton  and  William 
Boteman  touching  a  debt  of  10  marks,  and  John  Moryf  and  Walter 
Pyrs  touching  a  debt  of  100^.,  and  before  John  Prysot  and  his 
fellows,  justices  of  the  Bench  of  the  late  king,  to  answer  John 
Busshebrook  of  Combes  and  Henry  Herdegrey  touching  a  debt  of 
10/.  and  John  Wygmor  touching  a  debt  of  15/. 

Suffolk,  Kent  and  London. 

Hugh  Skevyngton  of  ColsoU  or  Oossall,  co.  Nottingham, '  gentilman,' 
for  not  appearing  before  the  justices  of  the  Bench  to  answer  Thomas 
Welles,  citizen  and  draper  of  London,  touching  a  debt  of  40/. 

Thomas  Halman  of  Helweton,  co.  Norfolk,  '  yoman,'  for  not  appearing 
before  John  Prysot  and  his  fellows,  justices  of  the  Bench  of  the 
late  king,  to  answer  John  Colhsson,  clerk,  touching  a  debt  of  4/.  15«. 

Norfolk. 

Thomas  Hervy  of  Disse,  co.  Norfolk, '  husbondman,*  for  not  appearing 
before  the  same  justices  to  answer  John  Style,  citizen  and  ^  vynter ' 
of  Norwich,  touching  a  debt  of  40*.  Norwich. 


May  1. 

Westminster. 


May  24. 

Westminster 


May  27. 

Westminster. 


May  15. 

Westminster. 


Membrane  31. 

Thomas  FitzWilliam,  parson  of  the  church  of  Sprotburgh,  co.  York, 
for  not  appearing  before  the  justices  of  the  Bench  to  answer  a  plea 
that  he  render  60s.  to  Idonia  Shether,  executrix  of  the  will  of  John 
Shether  late  of  Doncastre,  co.  York.  York. 

John  Awyke  of  Burghasse,  co.  Sussex,  *  laborer,'  for  not  appearing 
before  John  Prysot  and  his  fellows,  justices  of  the  Bench  of  the  late 
king,  to  ansv^er  John  S trace  and  Alice  his  wife  touching  a  debt  of 
11/.  165.  Sussex. 

Thomas  Ive  of  Chitewode,  co.  Buckingham,  ^husbondman,'  for  not 
appearing  before  the  justices  of  the  Bench  to  answer  Geoffrey  Dore 
and  Thomas  Barbour,  executors  of  the  will  of  Thomas  Frenssh  late 
of  Barton,  co.  Bnckingham,  and  William  Marchall  and  Joan  his 
wife,  late  the  wife  of  Thomas  Frenssh  and  co-executrix  of  the  said 
will,  touching  a  trespass  committed  against  the  said  Thomas  Frenssh. 

Hereford. 

* 

Bartholomew  Belton  of  Appethorp,  co.  Northampton,  '  husbondman,' 
for  not  appearing  before  the  late  kmg  to  answer  Margaret,  late 
queen  of  England,  touching  a  trespass  committed  by  him  with  John 
Depyng,  of  Wodeneuton,  co.  Northampton,  ^  husbondman,'  John 
Crosse  of  Wodeneuton, '  husbondman,'  and  Bobert  Boper  of  Eyuges- 
clyf ,  CO.  Northampton,  *  husbondman.'  Northampton. 


412 


CALENDAR  OF  PATENT  ROLLS. 


1466. 

June  22. 
Westminster. 


June  23. 
Westminster. 


June  27. 
Westminster. 


June  20. 
Westminster. 

June  19. 
Westminster. 


June  19. 
Westminster. 

June  19. 

Westminster. 


June  25. 
Westminster. 


July  6. 
Westminster. 


Juljr?. 
Westminster. 


June  20. 
Westminster. 


July  12. 
Westminster. 


May  10. 

Westminster. 


May  10* 

Westminster. 


Membrane  81 — cont. 

John  Idon  of  Quapplod,  co.  Lincoln,  the  younger,  ^yoman/  for  not 
appearing  before  the  justices  of  the  Bench  to  answer  Thomas 
Pulvertoft  and  Robert  Coke  of  Qnapplod  touching  a  debt  of  100«. 

Berks. 

Peter  Kyng  late  of  Thoi-pe  by  Ix worth,  co.  Suffolk,  *  husbondman,' 
alias  late  of  Sapstou,  co.  Suffolk,  for  not  appearing  before  John  Prysot 
and  his  fellows,  justices  of  the  Bench  of  the  late  king,  to  answer 
John  Lott  of  Wymondham,  co.  Norfolk,  and  John  Elys  of  Stanton, 
CO.  Suffolk,  touching  a  debt  of  5  marks.  Norfolk. 

Simon  Rye  late  of  Boston,  co.  Lincoln,  'taverner,'  alias  late  of 
Lamport,  co.  Somerset,  *  chapman,'  for  not  appearing  before  the 
justices  of  the  Bench  to  answer  John  Rygges  of  Bury  St.  Edmunds 
touching  a  debt  of  7  marks.  Suffolk. 

Henry  Maunsell  late  of  Bridforth,  co.  York,  esquire,  for  not  appearing 
before  the  king  to  answer  Thomas  Preston  and  John  Preston 
touching  a  trespass.  Middlesex. 

Adam  Stanbourne,  vicar  of  the  church  of  Hecham,  co.  Norfolk,  for 
not  appearing  before  John  Prysot  and  his  fellows,  justices  of  the 
Bench  of  the  late  king,  ^vhen  sued  with  Richard  Reyner  late  of 
Hecham,  *  yoman,'  to  answer  Godfrey  Joye  of  Norwich,  *  notarie,' 
touching  a  debt  of  100^.,  and  also  for  not  appearing  to  answer 
Francis  Costard  of  Sporle  touching  a  debt  of  40#.  Norfolk. 

Richard  Redeman  late  of  Levens,  co.  Westmoreland,  esquire,  for  not 
appearing  before  the  same  justices  to  answer  Roger  Dawson,  citizen 
and  tailor  of  London,  touching  a  debt  of  55/.  London. 

John  Walter  of  Cljfton  Dertemouth  Hardenesse,  co.  Devon,  *smyth,' 
for  not  appearing  before  the  justices  of  the  Bench  to  answer  Thomas 
Gale,  Robert  Bowyer,  and  John  Langemede  touching  trespasses. 

Devon. 

John  Wodehill  late  of  London,  esquire,  for  not  appearing  to  answer 
John  Hampton,  esquire  of  the  body  of  Henry  YI.  touching  a  debt  of 
50  marks.  London. 

Thomas  Gai'dyner  of  Burnham,  co.  Buckingham,  'hosycr,'  for  not 
appearing  before  John  Prysot  and  his  fellows,  justices  of  the  Bench 
of  the  late  king,  to  answer  John  Burton  of  London,  mercer,  touching 
a  debt  of  42«.  \d.  London. 

Laurence  Cambirlayn  late  of  Thaxstede,  co.  Essex,  alias  of  Hengham 
Sibill,  CO.  Essex, '  coteler,'  for  not  appearing  before  the  justices  of 
the  Bench  to  answer  Philip  Daunce,  clerk,  touching  a  debt  of  7/. 

Middlesex. 

John  Coortelowe  of  Bristol,  ^  carpenter,'  for  not  appearing  before  the 
king  to  answer  him  touching  a  trespass.  Middlesex. 

Membranb  30. 

Thomas  Adam  of  Polruan,  co.  Cornwall,  ^  maryner,'  for  not  appearing 
before  the  justices  of  the  Bench  to  answer  Thomas  Treffrey  of 
Fowey,  John  Salter,  Jelian  Hicla  and  Abraham  Ganter  of  Estloo 
touching  a  debt  of  14/.  8«.  4J. 

John  Haterbergh  of  Neuby  in  the  parish  of  Scalby  by  Scarburgh,  co. 
York,  ^husbondman,'  for  not  appearing  before  Robert  Danby  and 
his  fellows,  justices  of  the  Bench,  to  answer  William  Batyson  touching 
a  trespass. 

William  Goldburgh  of  Scalby  by  Scarburgh,  co.  York,  ^  husbondman,' 
for  not  appearing  to  answer  William  Batyson  touching  a  trespass. 


5  EDWARD  IV.— Part  I. 


413 


1465. 

Oct.  27. 

Weatminster. 

Oct.  9. 
Wefltminster. 


Nov.  7. 

Wefltminster. 


Nov.  9. 
Westminster. 

Oct.  26. 

Westminster. 

Oct.  9. 

Westminster. 

Oct.  9. 

Westminster. 

Nov.  11. 
Westminster. 


Nov.  11. 
Westminster. 


Nov.  4. 
Westminster. 

Nov.  6. 
Westminster. 

Nov.  7. 
Westminster. 

Oct.  14. 

Westminster. 


Nov.  13. 
Westminster. 

Nov.  11. 
Westminster. 


Membrane  30 — cont, 

JohD  Cokefeld  late  of  Cambridge,  clerk,  for  not  appearing  before  John 
Prysot  and  his  fellowR,  justices  of  the  Bench  of  the  late  king,  to 
answer  John  Burgeys  touching  a  trespass.  Norwich. 

John  Bele  of  Langtoft,  co.  York, '  Lusbondman,'  for  not  appearing 
before  the  same  justices  to  answer  William  Say,  dean  of  the 
cathedral  church  of  St.  Paul,  London,  touching  a  debt  of  21  marks. 

Berks. 

John  Worthy  of  Halsted,  co.  Essex,  '  gentilman,*  for  not  appearing 
before  the  justices  of  the  Bench  when  sued  with  John  Kelynge  of 
Haveryll,  co.  Suffolk,  '  yoman '  alias  ^  scolemaister,'  as  executors 
of  the  will  of  John  Cornewale,  late  receiver  of  the  lord  of  Ewe, 
to  answer  a  plea  that  they  render  18/.  to  William  Hulyn,  or  Hewlyn, 
citizen,  fishmonger  and  aJderman  of  London.  London. 

Richard  Amei*yk  late  of  Taunton,  co.  Somerset,  merchant,  for  not 
appearing  to  answer  Thomas  Burgoyn,  citizen  and  mercer  of  London^ 
touching  a  debt  of  6/.  13«.  Ad,  London^ 

Joan  del  Butre  late  of  EUerker,  co.  York,  alias  late  of  Kyngeston  on 
Hull,  '  wedowe/  for  not  appearing  to  answer  Thomas  Hemelsey 
of  York,  merchant,  touching  a  debt  of  100$.  City  of  York. 

John  Upcherche  aliens  Cook  late  of  Pertenhale,  co.  Bedford, '  husbond- 
man,'  for  not  appearing  to  answer  Richard  White^  clerk,  touching  a 
debt  of  20/.  Northampton. 

Thomas  Marchall  late  of  Haly weston,  co.  Huntingdon,  <  husbondman, 
for  not  appearing  to  answer  John  Renkyn,  citizen  and  mercer  of 
London,  touching  a  debt  of  8/.  London. 

Simon  Gardiner  of  Baldeswell,  co.  Norfolk,  ^  husbondman,'  for  not 
appearing  before  John  Prysot  and  his  fellows,  justices  of  the  Bench 
of  the  late  king,  to  answer  Adam  Lacy  of  Salle  touching  a  debt  of 
AOs.  Norfolk. 

Margaret  Everyngham  late  of  Shefeld,  co.  York,  ^  wydowe,'  for  not 
appearing  when  sued  with  Thomas  Everyngham  late  of  Shefeld,  co. 
York,  esquire,  as  executors  of  the  will  of  Tbomas  Everyngham  late 
of  York,  esquire,  to  answer  a  plea  that  they  render  9/.  I85.  8  J.  to 
Thomas  Goby,  citizen  and  skinner  of  London.  York. 

John  Gregylston  of  Askylby,co.  York,  'husbondman,'  for  not  appearing 
before  the  king  at  Westminster  to  answer  Thomas  Daweson  touching 
a  trespass.  York. 

John  Clere,  late  of  Isenden,  co.  Hertford,  clerk,  for  not  appearing 
before  the  justices  of  the  Bench  to  answer  Robert  Louthe  touching  a 
debt  of  40*.  Hertford. 

John  Pokenell  late  of  Strode,  co.  Dorset,  esquire,  for  not  appearing  to 
answer  Robert  Hardyng,  citizen  and  goldsmith  of  London,  touching 
a  debt  of  10/.  Dorset. 

Robert  Jervas,  or  Jerves,  of  Thorplangton,  co.  Leicester,  *  husbondman,' 
for  not  appearing  before  John  Prysot  and  his  feUows,  justices 
of  the  Bench  of  the  late  king,  to  answer  Thomas  Flore  of  Okeham, 
CO.  Rutland,  esquire,  touching  a  debt  of  6  marks.  Rutland. 

Thomas  Lullyneden  of  Estgrenstede,  co.  Sussex,  ^bocher,'  for  not 
appearing  before  the  king  to  answer  John  Marchall  touching  a 
trespass.  Sussex. 

Walter  Spencer  of  Morton,  co.  Hereford,  'husbondman,'  for  not 
appearing  before  John  Prysot  and  his  fellows,  justices  of  the  Bench 
of  the  late  king,  to  answer  John  Cooke  touching  a  trespass. 

Suffolk. 


414 


CALENDAR  OP  PATENT  ROLLS. 


1465. 

Nov.  14. 
Westminster. 


Nov.  11. 

Westminster. 


Oct.  11. 

Westminster. 


Nov.  10. 
Westminster. 


Oct.  12. 

Westminster. 


Nov.  15. 
Westminster. 


Nov.  14. 
Westminster. 

Nov.  7. 

Westminster. 


Oct.  9. 
Westminster. 


Membrane  30 — cont. 

John  Lermore  of  Ebworthj  in  the  parish  of  Wadbury,  co.  Devony 
'  huflbondman/  for  not  appearing  before  Robert  Dauby  and  his 
fellows,  justices  of  the  Bench,  to  answer  Charles  Dynham  touching  a 
trespass.  Devon. 

William  Perrysson  late  of  London,  chaplain,  for  not  appearing  before 
the  justices  of  the  Bench  to  answer  John  Wakeryug,  master  of  the 
hospital  of  vSt.  Bartholomew  in  Westsmythfeld,  London,  touching  a 
trespass.  London. 

John  Thorp  of  Berkeley,  co.  Gloucester,  '  gentilman,'  William  Talbot 
of  Bristol,  *  mercer,'  and  William  Longe  of  Bristol,  '  wever,' 
executors  of  the  will  of  Agnes  late  the  wife  of  John  Spicer,  executrix 
of  the  will  of  Thomas  Fyssh,  executor  of  the  will  of  John  Spicer, 
for  not  appearing  before  John  Frisot  and  his  fellows,  justices  of  the 
Bench  of  the  late  king,  in  the  year  37  Henry  V  I.  to  answer  a  plea 
that  they  render  chattels  to  the  value  of  120  marks  and  a  coffer 
(pixidem)  containing  charters,  writings  and  other  muniments  to 
William  Neel  and  Agnes  his  wife.  Gloucester. 

John  Cotys  late  of  Merston  Morteyn,  co.  Bedford,  *  gentilmau,'  for  not 
appearing  before  the  same  justices  to  answer  William  Bamet  touch- 
ing a  debt  of  40;.  and  to  answer  a  plea  that  he  render  40/.  to 
Thomas  Drury,  clerk,  William  Marchall  and  Anne  Fulbroke,  widow, 
executors  of  the  will  of  Ralph  Beaufort,  or  Beauford,  clerk. 

Bedford. 

John  Courte  late  of  Stokecursy,  co.  Somerset,  *taillour,'  for  not 
appearing  before  the  late  king  to  answer  Thomas  Burdet,  esquire, 
touching  a  trespass  committed  by  him  and  Richard  Trebon  late 
of  Stokecursy,  ^  courleholder,'  William  Pollard  late  of  Stokecursy, 
'  husbondman,'  Thomas  Webbe  late  of  Stokecursy,  *  wever,'  Thomas 
Archer  late  of  Stokecursy,  ^  mercer,'  John  Wale  late  of  Stokecuray, 
'  souter,'  William  Pruette  late  of  Stokecursy,  '  maryner,'  William 
Malyn  late  of  Stokecursy,  'taillour,'  Thomas  Wynkilton  late  of 
Stokecursy,  '  bocher,'  John  Cawaso  late  of  Knyghton,  *  husbond- 
man/ and  John  Gokkes  late  of  Stokecui*sy, '  glover.'  Somerset^ 

William  Bury  late  of  London,  *•  gentilman,'  alias  William  Bure  of 
Berton  or  Barton  in  Henmersh,  co.  Warwick,  for  not  appearing  before 
John  Prysot  and  his  fellows,  justices  of  the  Bench  of  the  late  king, 
to  answer  Robert  Vans  touching  a  debt  of  4  marks  6s,  8^.,  and  for 
not  appearing  before  the  justices  of  the  Bench  to  answer  John  Smyth 
of  Oxford,  '  skynner,'  touching  a  debt  of  40s.  and  William  Capron 
of  Bannebury  the  younger,  touching  a  debt  of  60*. 

Middlesex  and  Oxford. 

John  Fraunceys  late  of  Charwelton,  co.  Northampton,  'husbondman,' 
for  not  appearing  before  the  justices  of  the  Bench  to  answer 
Richard  Clarell  touching  two  debts  of  30/.  each.  Northampton. 

William  Fox  late  of  Crych,  co.  Derby,  *  yoman,'  for  not  appearing  to 
answer  Elizabeth,  countess  of  Shrewsbury,  touching  a  debt  of  40/. 

Oxford. 

John  Laurence  of  Wyboldeston,  co.  Bedford,  'gentilman,'  for  not 
appearing  to  answer  John  Manyngham,  esquire,  touching  a  debt 
of  17/.  6s.  8d.  and  William  Couper, '  gentilman,'  touching  a  debt  of 
6/.  Middlesex* 

Membrane  29. 

Robert  Hunt  late  of  Bishop's  Lynn,  co.   Norfolk,  'marchaunt,'  for 

not  appearing  to  answer  John  Vavesour,  clerk,  touching  a  debt  of 

-    40#.  Suffolk. 


6  EDWARD  IV.— Part  I. 


415 


1465. 

Oct.  23. 

Wentmmster. 

Oct.  22. 

Westmioster. 

Oct.  24. 

Westminster. 


Oct.  22. 

Westminster. 


Oct.  24. 

Westminster. 


Oct.  24. 

W^estminster. 

Oct.  9. 

Westminster. 

Oct.  22. 

Westminster. 

Oct.  14. 
Westminster. 


Oct  22. 

Westminster. 


Oct.  20. 

Westminster. 


Oct.  27. 
Westminster. 


Oct.  25. 

Westminster. 


Membrane  29 — cofU, 

John  Cottes  late  of  Ware,  co.  Hertford,  '  chapman/  for  not  appearing 
before  John  Prysot  and  his  fellows,  justices  of  the  Bench  of  the  late 
king,  to  answer  John  Hyche,  touching  a  debt  of  505.  London. 

William  Braunston  late  Qf  Tychemerssh,  co.  Northampton, '  gentil- 
man,'  for  not  appearing  before  the  justices  of  the  Bench  to  answer 
William  Haddon  touching  a  debt  of  165/.  Stafford. 

John  Walonger  of  Berdewell,  co.  Suffolk,  *  yoman,'  for  not  appearing 
before  John  Prjsot  and  his  fellows,  justices  of  the  Bench  of  the  late 
king,  when  sued  with  David  Waggard  of  fiapjston.  co.  Suffolk, 
'  husbondman,*  Thomas  Waggard  of  Sapjston,  'yomau,'  John 
Seffrey  of  Berdewell,  '  yoman,'  and  John  Warejn  late  of  Berde- 
well, '  webster/  to  answer  Ralph  Wadyswyk  touching  a  trespass. 

Middlesex. 

William  Corsdale  of  Dry  Merston,  co.  Gloucester,  ^  hnsbondman,'  for 
not  appearing  before  the  justices  of  the  Bench  to  answer  Benedicta, 
abbess  of  the  house  of  St.  Edith,  PoUes worth,  touching  a  debt  of 
20/.  Gloucester. 

Simon  Wattes  late  of  Suthwerk,  co.  Surrey,  ^  yoman,'  for  not  appearing 
before  John  Pry  sot  and  his  fellows,  justices  of  the  Bench  of  the  late 
king,  to  answer  Thomas  Lovell,  esquire,  touching  a  debt  of  20/. 

Surrey. 

William  Brundale  of  Wyliyngham,  co.  Suffolk,  *  yoman,'  for  not 
appearing  before  the  justices  of  the  Bench  to  answer  Nicholas 
Parker  touching  a  debt  of  40^.  Norwich. 

Richard  Keston  late  of  Stoure  Prewes,  co.  Dorset, '  husbondman/  for 
not  appearing  to  answer  Master  John  Druell,  parson  of  the  church 
of  Fulham,  touching  a  debt  of  20/.  London. 

John  Dowenyng  of  Elvcden,  co.  Suffolk,  '  husbondman,'  for  not 
appearing  in  the  court  of  the  late  king  to  answer  Thomas,  bishop 
of  Ely,  touching  a  trespass.  Suffolk. 

Thomas  Smyth  of  Gamelyngey,  co.  Cambridge,  ^yoman/  for  not 
appearing  before  Richard  Neuton  and  his  fellows,  justices  of  the 
Bench  of  the  late  king,  to  answer  John  Broughton,  esquire,  touching 
a  debt  of  8/.  Bedford. 

William  Bray  of  Elveden,  co.  Suffolk,  ^  husbondman,'  for  not  appearing 
before  Thomas,  bishop  of  Ely,  in  the  court  of  the  late  king  when 
sued  with  William  Webber  of  EUeden,  *  husbondman,'  John 
Dowenyng  of  Elveden,  'husbondman,'  John  Botte  of  Elveden, 
'  husbondman,'  Thomas  Lergeaunt  of  Elveden, '  husbondman,'  and 
John  Narbuigh  of  Elveden, '  husbondman,'  to  answer  the  said  bishop 
touching  a  trespass.  Suffolk. 

Richard  L^et  of  Holme  in  Spaldyngmore,  co.  York, '  potter,'  for  not 
appearing  before  the  justices  of  the  Bench  to  answer  a  plea  that  he 
render  40*.  to  Alan  Horsley  and  Joan  his  wife,  late  the  wife  of 
Laurence  Boles,  burgess  of  the  town  of  Skardebnrgh,  and  executrix 
of  his  will.  f  ork.- 

Henry  Grene  late  of  Evysham,  co.  Worcester, '  barker^'  for  not  appear- 
ing to  answer  Richard,  abbot  of  the  monastery  of  St.  Mary,  Hayles, 
touching  a  debt  of  40/.  Worcester. 

Richard  CoUyng  of  Wichford,  co.  Warwick,  <  husbondman,'  for  not 
appearing  before  Robert  Danby  and  his  fellows,  justices  of  the  Bench, 
to  answer  Thomas  Stratton,  esquire,  touching  a  debt  of  11/. 

Middlesex. 


416 


CALENDAR  OF  PATENT  ROLLS. 


1465. 

Oct.  8. 
Westminster. 

Oct.  24. 

WestminBter. 


No^.  6. 

WestminBter. 

Oct.  16. 

Westminster. 


July  10. 
Westminster. 


Nov.  7. 
Westminster. 


Nov.  4. 
Westminster. 


Oct.  8. 
Westminster. 


Nov.  9. 
Westminster. 


Membrane  29 — cont, 

John  Moderey  late  of  Mysterton,  co.  Leicester,  clerk,  for  not  appearing 
before  the  justices  of  the  Bench  of  the  late  king  to  answer  John 
Multon  touching  a  trespass.  Kent. 

John  Spycer  late  of  Ikelyngton,  co.  Cambridge, '  husbondman,'  for  not 
appearing  before  the  justices  of  the  Bench  to  answer  Robert 
Spaldyng,  citizen  and  scrivener  of  the  city  of  London,  touching  a 
debt  of  8/.  I3s.  4d,  London. 

John  Curie  of  Whynberewe,  co.  Norfolk,  '  husbondman,'  for  not 
appearing  to  answer  WiUiam  Hacon  touching  a  debt  of  5  marks. 

London. 

James  Welles  of  Borley,  co.  Essex,  *  husbondman,'  for  not  appearing 
before  the  late  king  to  answer  Stephen  Pylbergh,  clerk,  touching  a 
trespass.  Essex. 

Richard  Langstrother,  parson  of  the  parish  church  of  Hyhunger, 
CO.  Essex,  for  not  appearing  before  the  justices  of  the  Bench  to 
answer  Thomas  Marke,  executor  of  the  will  of  John  Marke, 
touching  a  debt  of  4  marks.  Essex. 

William  Cosnet  late  of  Pcrshore,  co.  Worcester,  *yoman,'  for  not 
appearing  to  answer  Master  Robert  Kyrkeham,  dean  of  the  college 
of  St.  Stephen  wjthin  the  king's  palace  of  Westmioster,  and  the 
canons  of  that  place  touching  a  debt  of  40s.  Middlesex. 

Richard  Devenyssh  of  Berkholt,  co.  Suffolk,  chaplain,  for  not  appearing 
before  John  Prysot  and  his  fellows,  justices  of  the  Bench  of  the  late 
king,  to  answer  William  Hoper,  clerk,  and  Richard  Spycer  touching 
a  debt  of  40/.  Londoo. 

Edmund  Cosnet  late  of  Whitelady  Aston,  co.  Worcester,  *  yoman,'  for 
not  appearing  before  the  justices  of  the  Bench  to  answer  Master 
Robert  Kirkeham,  dean  of  the  college  of  St.  Stephen,  and  the  canons 
of  that  place  touching  a  debt  of  40s,  Middlesex. 

Robert  Danyell  of  Nenton  Pleycy,  co.  Somerset, '  husbondman,'  for  not 
appearing  before  John  Prisot  and  his  fellows^  justices  of  the  Bench 
of  the  late  king,  to  answer  John  Mauncell  touching  a  debt  of  8 
marks.  Somerset. 

Richard  Warre  late  of  Hastercombe,  co.  Somerset,  esquire,  for  not 
appearing  before  the  same  justices  to  answer  Thomas  Barnewey, 
citizen  and  draper  of  London,  touching  a  debt  of  14/.  I3s,  3d, 

Somerset. 

John  Hawys  late  of  Rumsey,  co.  Southampton,  ^  touker,'  for  not 
appearing  before  the  same  justices  when  sued  with  John  Long  late 
of  Suthampton,  'laborer,'  Richard  Underwode  late  of  Rumsey, 
'mercer,'  Henry  Couper  late  of  Burseley,  co.  Southampton, 
'  carpenter,'  and  Richard  Turbervyle  of  Kyngesbyre,  co.  Southampton, 
^  gentilman,'  to  answer  Thomas  Husee,  esquire,  touching  a  trespass. 

Dorset. 

Richard  Payn  of  Sonford  in  the  parish  of  Severnstoke,  co.  Worcester, 
'  husbondman,'  for  not  appearing  before  the  justices  of  the  Bench  to 
answer  Nicholas  Payn  touching  a  trespass.  Worcester. 

John  Lodyngton  of  Lamport,  co.  Northampton,  clerk,  for  not  appearing 
before  John  Prysot  and  his  fellows,  justices  of  the  Bench  of  the  late 
king,  when  sued  with  Andrew  Lodyngton  of  Wolde,  co.  North- 
ampton, '  husbondman,'  as  administrators  of  the  goods  of  Richard 
Lodyngton,  who  died  intONtate,  to  answer  a  plea  that  they  render 
15/.  3s.  lid.  to  Leo  Welles,  knight.  Lincoln. 


5  EDWARD  IV.— Paut  1. 


417 


1465. 

Nov.  14. 
Wostminster. 


1466. 

Jan.  24. 

Westmioster. 


Jan.  28. 

WestmiDster. 


Feb.  2. 
Weiitmiiister. 


Feb.  4. 
WcstmiiKter. 


Jun.  23. 

Wefltminster. 


Feb;  2. 
WestiiiiD8t«r. 


Feb.  7. 
Weitminster. 

Jan.  24. 
WettnuDster. 


Feb.  7. 


Feb.  8. 
Wettmiiifter. 


u    M9U. 


Membrane  29 — cont, 

Thomas  Cole  of  Goldjngton,  co.  Bedford,  *  yoman '  alias  ^  husbondman/ 
for  nut  appearing  before  the  same  justices  to  answer  Edmund  Grey, 
lord  of  Hastjnges,  Wuysford  and  Ruthyn,  touching  a  debt  of  40/. 
and  Laurence  Cheyne,  esquire,  touching  a  debt  of  40  marks. 

Bedford  and  Cambridge. 

Mbmbranb  28. 

William  Godhall  late  of  Scotilthorpo,  co.  Lincoln, '  genlilman,'  for  not 
appearing  before  the  justices  of  the  Bench  to  answer  Master  James 
Garnon,  clerk,  touching  a  debt  of  6  marks  6«.  8^.  London. 

Richard  Frognali  or  Froggenhale  late  of  Tenham,  co.  Kent,  knight,  for 
not  appearing  before  John  Prysot  and  his  fellows,  justices  of  the 
Bench  of  the  late  king,  to  answer  Walter  Lovell  late  of  Tonbrigge, 
CO.  Kent,  touching  a  debt  of  10  marks  and  William  Reynold,  citizen 
and  *  wexchaundeller '  of  London,  touching  a  debt  of  8/.       London. 

John  Trolby  late  of  Colbroke,  co.  Buckingham,  '  miller,'  for  not 
appearing  before  the  justices  of  the  Bench  to  answer  Robert  Power 
and  Agnes  his  wife,  executrix  of  the  will  of  William  Trewe,  touching 
a  debt  of  60f .  Buckingham. 

John  Myryell  of  Thurley,  co.  Bedford, '  husbondman,'  for  not  appear- 
ing before  John  Prysot  and  his  fellows,  justices  of  the  Bench  of  the 
late  king,  to  answer  Walter  Stacy  touching  a  debt  of  40f. 

Hertford. 

John  Pedehill  of  Moremalerbe,  co.  Devon,  *  husbondman,'  for  not 
appearing  before  the  king  when  sued  with  John  Ryxman  of 
Bridstowe,  co.  Devon,  'husbondman,'  Geoffrey  Yerneworthy  of 
Sampford  Spynay,  co.  Devon, '  grome,'  Elias  Stoutefeld  of  Sampford 
Spyuay,  '  grome,'  and  Roger  Estedon  of  Sampford  Spynay,  ^  grome,' 
to  answer  William  Myleton  touching  a  trespass.  Devon. 

John  Clerk,  citizen  and  grocer  of  London,  for  not  appearing  before 
John  Prysot  and  his  fellows,  justices  of  the  Bench  of  the  late  king, 
to  answer  William  Babthorpe,  esquire,  touching  a  debt  of  100/. 

London. 

John  Kyng  late  of  Herlvngdon,  co.  Bedford, '  husbondman,'  for  not 
appearing  before  the  justices  of  the  Bench  to  answer  Thomas 
Palmere,  esquire,  touching  a  debt  of  20/.  Middlesex. 

William  Grendell  late  of  Henwyk,  co.  Bedford,  *  yoman,'  foi  not 
appearing  before  the  justices  of  the  Bench  of  the  late  king  to  answer 
Thomas  Throgmerton  and  Thomas  Frowyk  touching  a  debt  of  4/. 

Middlesex. 

John  Staunford  late  of  Stafford, '  yoman,'  for  not  appearing  before 
John  Prysot  and  his  fellows,  justices  of  the  Bench  of  the  late  king, 
to  answer  John  Horsley  and  Thomas  John,  executors  of  the  will 
of  Agnes  Quybon  late  of  London,  widow,  touching  a  debt  of  7/. 
]3i.  4^.  London. 

Alexander  Quenaton  late  of  Balscote,  co.  Oxford, '  gentilman,'  for  not 
appearing  before  the  justices  of  the  Bench  to  ansvi-er  William  Pek, 
*  gentilman,'  and  William  Goldyngton,  '  gentilman,'  touching  a  debt 
of  12/.  10*.  Oxford, 

William  Hervy  of  Asshewoll,  co.  Hertford, '  bocher,'  for  not  appearing 
to  answer  William  Seyntgeorge,  knight,  touching  a  debt  of  lOOt. 

Cambridge. 

John  Billesdon  late  of  London,  '  taillour,'  for  not  appearing  befwe 
John  Prysot  and  his  fellows,  justices  of  the  Bench  of  the  late  king, 

i>  D 


418 


CALENDAR  OP  PATENT  ROLLS. 


1466. 


Feb.  12. 
Westminster. 


Feb.  10. 
Westmmfter. 


Feb.  11. 
Westminster. 

Feb.  7. 
Westminster. 


Feb.  8. 
Westminster. 


Feb.  12. 
Westminster. 


Membrane  28 — cont. 

to  answer  Henry  Shyngwell,  citizen   and  goldsmith  of    London, 
touching  a  debt  of  40;.  London. 

Sampson  Souche  late  of  Bokelond  Fyllegh,  co.  Devon,  *  touker/  for 
for  not  appearing  when  sued  with  Richard  Q-jlle  late  of  Bokelond 
Fyllegh, '  tonker/  before  John  Fortescu  and  his  fellows,  justices  of 
the  SQng's  Bench  of  the  late  king,  to  answer  John  Sobj  touching 
a  trespass.  Cornwall. 

John  Clampayn,  late  chaplain  of  the  household  of  Henry  VI.  and 
vicar  of  the  church  of  Wysebeche,  co.  Cambridge,  for  not  appearing 
before  John  Prysot  and  his  fellows,  justices  of  the  Bench  of  the 
late  king,  to  answer  Robert  Chamberleyn  and  Nicholas  Browne 
touching  a  debt  of  7  marks.  London. 

William  Canynges  late  of  London,  esquire,  for  not  appearing  before 
the  king  to  answer  Henry,  earl  of  Essex,  and  John  Tymperley, 
esquire,  touching  a  trespass.  SufToU^. 

Thomas  Bagger  late  of  London,  late  of  the  household  of  Henry  YI. 
^  yoman,'  for  not  appearing  before  John  Frysot  and  his  fellows, 
justices  of  the  Bench  of  the  said  late  king,  to  answer  John  Wynche 
of  London,  draper,'  touching  a  debt  of  10/.  3«.  4i/.  and  Robert 
Colwych,  citizen  and  tailor  of  London,  touching  a  debt  of  40f . 

London. 

John  Ry vers  of  Ipswich,  co.  Suffolk,  ^  mercer,'  for  not  appealing  before 
the  justices  of  the  Bench  to  answer  GeofiErey  Feldyng,  mercer  of 
London,  touching  a  debt  of  8/.  3^.  \d.  London. 

John  Waleys  late  of  Colbrokford,  co.  Devon,  esquire,  for  not  appearing 
to  answer  a  plea  that  he  render  6/.  8^.  to  John  Norys,  citizen  and 
skinner  of  London,  and  Alice  Goldwyn,  late  widow,  the  wife  of 
John  Birlyng,  executors  of  the  wiU  of  Thomas  Q-oldwyn,  citizen 
and  skinner  of  London,  and  the  said  John  Birlyng.  Devon. 

John  Newers,  or  Nowers,  late  of  Tackeley,  co.  Oxford,  esquire,  for  not 
appearing  before  John  Prisot  and  his  fellows,  justices  of  the  Bench 
of  the  late  king,  when  sued  with  William  Rayson  late  of  Eynesham, 
CO.  Oxford,  clerk,  John  Curteys  late  of  Eyneediam, '  yoman,'  William 
Warton  late  of  Takley,  ^  yoman,'  Thomas  Couper  late  of  Stodeley, 
CO.  Oxford,  ^  yoman,'  Richard  Cooke,  late  of  Bladon,  co.  Oxford, 
'  yoman,'  John  Mayn  late  of  Bekkroke,  co.  Oxford, '  yoman,'  John 
Tayllour  late  of  Midlyngton,  co.  Oxford,  'yoman,'  and  John 
Bethewyn  lateof  Burcestre,  co.  Oxford,  *  taylour,'  to  answer  William 
Lambeton  and  Simon  Boyly  touching  trespasses ;  for  not  appearing 
before  the  said  justices  to  answer  John  Hony  touching  a  debt  of 
40^.,  Thomas  Swerdbreke,  citizen  and  *  wheler '  of  London,  touching 
a  debt  of  lOOs.,  the  abbot  of  the  monastery  of  St.  Mary,  Teukesbury, 
touching  a  debt  of  40  marks,  Ralph  Ingoldsby  touching  debts  of  &J», 
and  47*.,  John  Carpenter,  bishop  of  Worcester,  executor  of  the  will 
of  John  Yampage  the  elder,  and  John  Stanley  and  Elizabeth  his 
wife,  late  the  wife  of  the  said  John  Yampage  and  co-executrix  of 
his  will,  touching  a  plea  that  he  render  10/.  to  them,  and  John 
Herte  touching  a  debt  of  46«.  M. ;  and  for  not  appearing  before 
Robert  Danby  and  his  fellows,  justices  of  the  Bench,  to  answer 
Thomas  Smyth,  clerk^  and  William  Robyns  of  Oxford,  *  bocher,' 
touching  a  debt  of  10  marks,  Nicholas  Drayton,  citizen  and  mercer 
of  London,  touching  a  debt  of  100^.,  William  Brokes,  or  Bracas, 
esquire,  late  sheriff  of  Oxford,  touching  a  debt  of  100^.,  and  John 
Hert  of  Woxbrigge,  co.  Middlesex, '  chapman,'  touching  a  debt  of  4/. 
N*t>rthampton,  City  of  Coventry,  London,  Gloucester,  Buckingham, 
Berks,  Middlesex. 


5  EDWARD  IV.— Part  I. 


419 


1465. 

Nov.  17. 
Weftminster. 


Nov.  16. 
Westminater. 


Oct.  14. 
WestmiDBter. 

Nov.  18. 
Westminster. 


July  10. 
Westminster. 


Nov.  18. 
Westminster. 

Nov.  7. 

Wecitmioster. 


Nov.  8. 
Weitminster. 

Nov.  16. 
Westminster. 


Nov.  14. 
WettmiDfter. 

Nov.  18. 
Westminater. 


Mbmbrane  27. 

Thomas  Parys  of  Salisbury,  co.  Wilts,  *•  meroer/  for  not  appearing 
before  John  Priaot  and  his  fellows,  justices  of  the  Bench  of  the 
late  king,  to  answer  Robert  Gyles  and  John  Giles  touching  a  debt 
of  20/.  Norfolk. 

Richard  Hobbys  late  of  Mulso,  co.  Buckingham, '  gentilman,'  for  not 
i^pearing  before  the  justices  of  the  Bench  to  answer  John  Martyn, 
citizen  and  ^  taiUour '  of  London,  touching  a  debt  of  58«.  8^. 

Middlesex. 

John  Franke  late  of  Salisbury,  co.  Wilts,  merchant,  for  not  appearing 
to  answer  Isabel  Yonge  and  Thomas  Gerveys  of  Chepyngnorton 
touching  a  debt  of  40/.  Wilts. 

John  Dene  late  of  Edenworth,  co.  Somerset^  *  husbondman,'  for  not 
appearing  to  answer  Thomas  Grenefeld  and  Isabel  his  wife  touching 
a  debt  of  15/.  Middlesex. 

William  Waleys  late  of  London,  *  skynner,*  alias  William  Wales  of 
the  parish  of  Codam,  co.  Kent, '  gentilman,'  for  not  appearing  before 
Richard  Neuton  and  his  fellows,  justices  of  the  Bench  of  the  late 
king,  to  answer  John  KyUyngham,  citizen  and  *  tayllour '  of  London, 
touching  a  debt  of  9  marks,  and  before  John  Prisot  and  his  fellows^ 
justices  of  the  Bench  of  the  late  king,  to  answer  John  Meddelton 
or  Middelton,  ^  citezein  and  skjrnner  of  London,'  touching  a  debt  of 
66f .  %d,  Kent. 

Henry  Fletcher  late  of  Bermyngham,  co.  Warwick,  *  corveser,'  for  not 
appearing  before  the  king  to  answer  William  Fyssher  and  Agnes  his 
wife  touching  a  trespass.  Warwick. 

Brian  Curteys  of  Hole  in  the  parish  of  Clee,  co.  Lincoln,  '  husbond- 
man,*  for  not  appearing  before  Richard  Neuton  and  his  fellows, 
justices  of  the  Bench  of  the  late  king,  when  sued  with  Jol .^ 
Curteys  of  Hole  aforesaid  the  elder,  '  husbondman,'  to  answer 
Williiun  TaiUoys,  esquire,  Richard  TunstaU,  Robert  Shefield,  John 
Tailboys  and  Thomas  Moigne  touching  a  trespass.  Lincoln. 

Peter  Shakerley  of  Dutton,  co.  K^it,  ^gentilman,'  for  not  appearing 
before  the  jostioes  of  the  Bench  to  answer  William  Lutoner,  citizen 
and  tailor  of  London,  touching  a  debt  of  40f .  London. 

John  Idley  of  Asah  by  Dertford,  co.  Kent,  ^  gentilman,'  aliat  of  Idley, 
CO.  Kent,  alias  John  Idely  late  of  Chilham,  co.  Kent,  esquire,  alias 
John  Idc^h  late  of  Aysshe  by  Mepeham,  co.  Kent,  esquire,  alias 
of  Esture,  co.  Kent,  ^  gentilman,'  for  not  appearing  before  John 
Cottesmore  and  his  fellows,  justices  of  the  Bench  of  the  late  king, 
to  answer  John  Fereby,  or  Feerby,  of  Pavlynstray  the  elder  touching 
a  debt  of  40/.,  before  Richard  Neuton  and  his  fellows,  justices  of 
the  said  Bench,  to  answer  Walter  Moyle  touching  a  debt  of  20/., 
before  John  Prisot  and  his  fellows,  justices  of  the  said  Bench,  to 
answer  Roger  Mell  touching  a  debt  of  20/.  and  to  answer  a  plea 
that  he  render  5  marks  to  William  Alisaundre  and  John  Kent, 
executors  of  the  will  of  John  Aston,  late  parson  of  the  church  of 
Snodelond,  and  before  the  justices  of  the  Bench  of  the  present  king 
to  answer  Walter  Moyle  touching  a  trespass.  Kent. 

Henry  Pantar  of  Alcestvr,  oo.. Warwick,  ^yoman,'  for  not  appearing 
before  the  justices  of  the  Bench  to  answer  Laurence  Biurgeys  of 
London,  *  wiredrawer,'  touching  a  debt  of  8  marks.  Middlesex. 

Hugh  Ihate  late  of  Wradyng,  oo.  Sussex,  '  husbondman,'  for  not 
appearing  to  answer  Elizabeth  late  the  wife  of  Thomas  Leukenore, 
knight,  touching  a  debt  of  8/.  Sussex, 

DD  2 


420 


CALENDAR  OF  PATENT  ROLLS. 


1465. 


Nov.  17. 

WestmiDster. 


Nov.  18. 
Weittmmster. 


Nov.  12. 
Westminster. 


Nov.  18. 
WestmiDster. 


1466. 

Jan.  28. 
Westminster. 

Jan.  24. 
Westminster. 


Jan.  29. 

Westminster. 


Jan.  30. 


1466. 

Oct.  22. 
Westminster. 


Membrane  27 — cont. 

John  Tebbe  late  of  Bi^ucheslee,  co.  Kent,  <  yoman,'  for  not  appearing 
to  answer  William  Constantjne,  citizen  and  skinner  of  London, 
tonching  a  debt  of  10  marks.  London. 

Thomas  Judkyn  of  Bristol,  *  glasyer/  for  not  appearing  before  John 
Prjsot  and  his  fellows,  justices  of  the  Bench  of  the  late  king,  to 
answer  John  Hogekyns  touching  a  debt  of  13/.  6«.  %d,  and  Richard 
Selender,  citizen  and  ^  goldsmyth '  of  London,  and  John  Beremaker 
of  Bristol  touching  a  debt  of  6/.  London. 

John  Bekwith  late  of  Lewes,  co.  Sussex,  '  yoman,'  for  not  appearing 
before  the  said  justices  to  render  his  account  to  Gilbert  Dciienham, 
esquire,  for  the  time  when  he  was  his  receiver,  and  before  the 
justices  of  the  Bench  of  the  present  king  to  answer  John  Love, 
citizen  and  grocer  of  London,  touching  a  debt  of  14/.  18#.  4c/. 

Suffolk  Ai  London. 

John  Savage  of  Clerkenwell,  co.  Middlesex,  '  gentilman,'  for  not 
appearing  before  the  justices  of  the  Bench  to  answer  a  plea  that  he 
render  iOs,  to  William  Thurgot,  administrator  of  the  goods  of  John 
Cowepere,  chaplain  celebrating  divine  service  while  he  lived  in  the 
charnel-house  (ossaria  mortuorum)  within  the  cemetery  of  the 
cathedral  church  of  St.  Paul,  London,  who  died  intestate.     Loudon. 

Geoffrey  Castell,  rector  of  the  parish  church  of  Stoke  Goldyngton, 
CO.  Buckingham,  for  not  appearing  before  Robert  Danby  and  his 
fellows,  justices  of  the  Bench,  to  answer  Richard  Yerney,  knight, 
late  esquire,  touching  a  debt  or  5  marks.  City  of  Coventry. 

John  Chapman  of  Thaxstede,  co.  Essex,  *  pedder,'  for  not  appearing 
before  John  Prysot  and  his  fellows,  justices  of  the  Bench  of  the 
late  king,  to  answer  a  plea  that  he  render  405.  to  John  Lewes  and 
Isabel  his  wife,  executrix  of  the  will  of  John  Stalworthy,  late  of 
Thetford.  Norfolk. 

William  Jenkyns  late  of  Shetteswell,  co.  Warwick,  *  husbondman,'  for 
not  appearing  before  the  justices  of  the  Bench  to  answer  Joan 
Dynham  touching  a  trespass.  Oxford. 

Robert  Horsford  late  of  Trokehorne,  co.  Somerset,  *  husbondmap,'  for 
not  appearing  to  answer  John  Nene,  citizen  and  mercer  of  London, 
and  Thomas  Nene,  citizen  and  mercer  of  London,^  touching  a  debt 
of  21/.  128.  0]^</.  Somerset. 

William  Potter  late  of  Criche,  co.  Derby,  *yoman,'  for  not  appearing 
to  answer  Elizabeth,  countess  of  Shrewsbury,  touching  a  debt  of 
40/.  Derby. 

John  Strete  late  of  S(rete,  co.  Derby,  *yoman,'  for  not  appearing  to 
answer  the  said  countess  touching  a  debt  of  40/.  Derby. 

John  London  late  of  London,  alias  parson  of  the  parish  church  of 
Brynkeworth,  co.  Wilts,  for  not  appearing  to  answer  Richard 
Soman,  citizen  and  draper  of  London,  touching  a  debt  of  18/. 

London. 


Thomas  Everyngham  late  of  Shefeld,  co.  York,  esquire,  for  not 
appearing  before .  John  Prysot  and  his  fellows,  justices  of  the 
Bench  of  the  late  king,  when  sued  with  Margaret  Everyngham  late 
of  Shefeld,  *wydowe,*  as  executors  of  the  will  of  Thomas 
Everyngham  late  of  York,  esquire,  to  answer  a  plea  that  they 
render  9/.  18*.  8«/.  to  Thomas  Goly,  citizen  and  skinner  of  London. 

London, 


5  EDWARD  IV.— Part  I.  421 


1466.  Membrane  26. 

Feb.  15.  Grant  to  the  good  mea  and  burgesses  and  the  provost  of  the  borough  of 

Westminster.  Great  Yerneinouthe,  in  consideration  of  their  burdens  of  the  fortification  and 
safe-custody  of  the  town  and  the  repur  of  the  works  of  the  king's  port  there, 
of  12/.  lOf .  \0d.  yearly  from  the  fee  farm  of  the  town  and  lOQir.  yearly  from 
the  fee  farm  from  a  place  on  the  high  sea  near  the  entrance  of  the  town 
called '  Kirkelerode,'  for  ten  years  from  Michaelmas  last,  to  be  expended  on 
the  repair  of  the  port  by  the  supervision  of  the  prior  of  the  town  and  Hagh 
Fenne,  who  shall  certify  thereon  to  the  treasurer  and  barons  of  the 
Exchequer.  By  p.s. 

Feb.  19.  errant  with  the  assent  of  the  council  to  the  abbot  and  convent  of 

Weftmimter.  Croyland,  for  40  marks  paid  by  them  in  the  hanaper,  that  the  prior  and 
convent  of  that  place  shall  have  the  custody  of  the  abbey  and  its  tem- 
poralities during  each  voidance,  with  full  administration,  rendering  20/.  at 
the  receipt  of  the  Exchequer  for  each  voidance.  And  no  escheator  or 
other  bailiff  or  minister  of  the  king  shall  interfere  except  to  take  simple 
seisin  and  then  depart.  By  p.8. 

Feb.  10.  Licence,  out  of  reverence  of  GK)d  and  St.  Mary  and  the  apoatles  8S.  Peter 

Wottminster.  and  Paul,  and  SS.  Erkenwald  and  Ethelbert,  confessors,  for  Thomas, 
bishop  of  London,  to  found  a  perpetual  chantry  of  one  chaplain,  who  shall 
be  the  penitentiary  of  the  bishop  in  the  cathedral  church  of  St.  Paul, 
London,  to  celebrate  divine  service  at  the  altar  of  Holy  Trinity  in  the  nave 
of  the  said  church  on  the  north  side  for  the  good  estate  of  the  king  and  his 
consort  Elizabeth,  queen  of  England,  and  the  said  bishop,  and  for  their 
souls  after  death,  and  the  souls  of  the  king's  progenitors  and  the  relatives 
of  the  bishop  according  to  his  ordinance,  t)  bo  called  the  chantry  of 
Thomas  Kempe  at  the  altar  of  Holy  Trinity,  and  to  unite  the  said  chantry 
to  the  office  of  the  penitentiary ;  and  for  the  alienation  in  mortmain  by  him 
to  the  said  chaplain  of  a  messuage,  a  dove-cote,  140  acres  of  land,  6  acres 
of  meadow,  8  acres  of  wood  called  '  Grayes,'  and  10«.  of  rent  in  Great 
Clakton,  co.  Essex,  and  another  messuage,  20  acres  of  land,  2  acres  of 
meadow  and  2  acres  of  wood  in  the  same  town  late  of  William  Hurry, 
which  the  bisfiop  had  of  the  grant  and  feoffment  of  Elias  Gliderowe  and 
Richard  Markes,  and  2  acres  of  land  in  Chikewell,  co.  Essex,  with  the 
advowson  of  the  church  of  Chykewell,  not  held  in  chief  and  not  exceeding 
the  value  of  17/.  yearly,  and  also  any  other  lands  and  possessions  to  the 
value  of  60#.  yearly.  By  p.s. 

Feb.  10.  Pardon  to  Nicholas  Abot  of  Houghton  by  Harple,  co.  Norfolk, '  hosbond- 

WestmiMter.  man,'  o\  his  outlawry  in  the  county  of  Norfolk  for  not  appearing  before  the 

late  king  to  answer  him  touching  a  pica  of  account  and  trespass  against  the 

statute  of  hunters,  he  having  surrendered  to  the  Marshalsea  prison,  as  John 

Markham,  knight,  chief  justice  of  the  King's  Bench,  has  certified. 

Feb.  4.  Grant  to  the  king's  servant,  John  Bosewell,  and  his  executors  and 

Westminster,  assigns  of  the  next  presentation  to  the  king's  chapel  of  St.  Margaret  called 

*  le  Hermitage '  by  Cunnesburgh,  co.  York.  By  p.s. 


Membrane  25. 

Jan.  4.  General  pardon  to  Thomas  Phelip  late  of  the  parish  of  Colyng,  co.  Kent, 

Cawood.      ^gentilman,'  alias  of  Lukton,  co.  Somerset,  *gentilman,'  for  all  offences 

committee!  by  him  before  27  November.  By  p.s. 

Jan.  23.  Grant  for  life  to  Thomas  Salesbury  the  younger  of  the  office  of  constable 

DoDstable.     of  the  king's  castle  of  Denbtegh  in  North  Wales  with  all  accustomed  fees 

from  the  issues  of  the  king's  manor  or  lordship  of  Denbiegh  with  all 

other    profits,    lately    mnted   for    life    to    Robert    Bold,    esquire,   by 

l0tter8  palept  of  the  king's  father  Richard,  late  duke  of  York|  dated  13 


422 


GALENDAB  OP  PATENT  BOLLS. 


Jan.  26. 

Westminster. 


1465. 

Nov.  15. 
Westminster. 


Dec.  30. 

Cawood. 


1466.  Membrane  25 — cont, 

September,  1460,  confirmed  by  letters  patent  dated  1  Jnly,  1  Edward  IV. 
surrendered.  By  p.s. 

The  like  to  the  king's  servitor  John  Wyld,  from  5  November,  1  Edward 
IV.  of  the  o£5ce  of  the  king's  tapestry,  receiving  sach  fees  as  John  BoUok 
had  in  the  time  of  Edward  III.  as  appears  by  record  in  the  Exchequer, 
yearly  at  the  hakids  of  the  keeper  of  the  great  wardrobe,  in  lieu  of  a  like 
grant  to  him  of  the  said  office  by  letters  patent  dated  1 1  October,  1  Edward 
IV.  surrendered.  By  p.s. 

Grant  to  John  Tunstall,  esquire,  and  the  heirs  male  of  his  body  of  the 
manor  of  Lek,  co.  Lancaster,  and  sixteen  messuages,  260  acres  of  land  and 
meadow,  4,000  acres  of  pasture,  moor  and  turf  and  a  wator-mill  in  Lek 
aforesaid,  a  moiety  of  the  manor  of  Cauncefeld,  co.  Lancaster,  and  twelve 
messuages,  180  acres  of  land  and  meadow  and  200  acres  of  moor  in 
Cauncefeld  aforesaid,  and  fourteen  messuages  in  Neuton,  co.  Lancaster^ and  a 
parcel  of  land  there  called  '  Mordomland '  containing  6  acres,  late  of 
Richard  Tunstall,  knight,  and  in  the  king's  hands  by  his  forfeiture  and  by 
authority  of  Parliament  at  Westminster,  4  November,  1  Edward  IV.  to 
hold  with  all  appurtenances  and  dependencies  by  the  services  of  as  many 
knights'  fees  and  other  services  as  they  were  held  formerly,  and  pardon  to 
him  of  all  issues  of  the  same.  By  p.8. 

Grant  to  the  vicars  of  the  church  of  Holy  Trinity,  Chichester,  that  they 
may  elect  a  principal  so  often  as  they  please,  and  that  they  shall  be  called 
the  principal  and  commonalty  of  the  vicars  of  that  church  and  shall  have  a 
common  seal  and  shall  be  capable  of  acquiring  lands  and  possessions  ;  pro- 
vided that  the  dean  and  canons  of  the  church  shall  present  to  their  vicarages 
when  void,  and  the  vicars  shall  be  subject  to  them  and  this  grant  shall  not 
be  to  their  prejudice.  By  p,s. 

Grant  to  Richard  Middelton  and  Matilda  his  wife  and  the  heirs  male  of 
his  body  of  the  reversion  of  three  messuages,  nine  bovates  of  land,  10  acres  of 
meadow,  seven  cottagea  and  60  acres  of  wood  in  Oswoldkirk,  co.  York,  on  the 
death  of  Maijory  Roos  late  the  wife  of  Philip  Wyntworth,  knight,  who 
holds  the  same  for  life,  which  reversion  belongs  to  the  king  by  reason  of  an 
act  in  Parliament  at  Westminster,  4  November,  1  Edward  IV.  against 
Thomas,  lord  Roos,  to  hold  the  same  by  the  service  of  as  many  knights' 
fees  and  other  services  as  they'were  held  by  formerly.  By  p.8. 

Jan.  2.  Grant  to  the  king's  kinsman  Richard,  earl  of  Warwick,  whom  by  an 

Cawood.  indenture  dated  at  Luchefeld,  5  April,  2  Edward  IV.  the  king  retained  as 
captain  and  guardian  of  the  castle  and  town  of  Carlisle  and  the  west 
marches  of  Scotland  for  20  years  from  4  March,  1  Edward  IV.  receiving 
yearly  for  wages  2,500/.  in  time  of  war  and  1,250/.  in  time  of  truce  or 
peace  at  the  hands  of  the  treasurer  of  England  and  the  chamberlains  of  the 
Exchequer,  of  all  customs  and  subsidies  belonging  to  the  king  in  the  port 
of  Kingeston  on  Hull  and  places  and  creeks  adjacent,  except  the  sums 
belonging  to  the  treasurer  and  victuallers  of  the  towji  of  Calais  by  reason  of 
an  act  of  Parliament  from  the  subsidies  of  wools  and  wool -fells  in  the  port, 
to  hold  in  satisfiu!tion  ot  tde  said  wages  from  1  February  next  so  long  as  he 
shall  be  captain  and  guardian  as  above,  rendering  yearly  his  account  at  the 
Exchequer  for  any  surplus.  And  if  the  said  customs  and  subsidies  shall  be 
insufficient  he  shall  receive  what  may  be  lacking  yearly  at  the  receipt  of  the 
Exchequer.  By  p.8. 

1465.  Membrane  24. 

July  15.         Grant  for  life  to  Tliomas  Herbert,  esquire,  and  John  Fitzherbert  of  a 
Westminster,  waste  called  le  Holynherst  Tyknale  and  Prince  Fee  or  Princes  Fee,  co. 


1466. 

Jan.  3. 
Cawood. 


5  EDWARD  IV.— Part  I.  423 


1465.  Membrane  24 — cont. 

Derby,  from  Michaelmas  last,  rendering  to  the  king  22s.  8d.  yearly  and 
maintaining  the  houses  and  enclosures  and  supporting  all  charges  ;  in  lieu 
of  a  grant  to  them  of  the  custody  of  the  same  for  12  years  from  4  March, 
1  Edward  IV.  by  letters  patent  dated  20  December,  1  Edward  IV. 
surrendered.  By  p.s. 

Nov.  20.  Appointment,  during  pleasure,  of  Ealph  Tykhill  as   controller  of  the 

Westmiaster.  subsidy  of   8*.  in  the  tun   and  I2d.  in  the   pound  in  the  port  of  the  city 

of  London  and  ports  and  places  adjacent,  receiving  the  accustomed  fees, 

provided  that  he  execute  the  office  in  person,  with  the  custody  of  one  part 

of  the  coket  seal.  By  bill  of  the  treasurer. 

April  9.  The  like  of  Heniy  Sotehill  as  controller  of  the  great  custom  and  the 

WeBtminster.  subsidy  of  wools,  hides  and  woolfells  in  the  same  port  and  ports  and  places 

adjacent.  By  bill  of  the  treasurer. 

June  18.  Grant  to  the  king's  servant  Walter  Hungerford,  esquire,  of  the  custody 
Weitminster.  of  all  lordships,  manors,  lands,  rents,  reversions,  services  and  other  posses- 
sions in  the  counties  of  Devon,  Wilts  and  Gloucester  late  of  John  Thorp, 
tenant  in  chief  by  knight  service,  during  the  minority  of  William  his  son 
and  heir  with  the  marriage  of  the  latter  without  disparagement,  with  all 
issues  of  the  above  in  the  mean  time,  and  so  from  heir  to  heir.  By  p.s. 

1466. 

Jan.  26.         Presentation  of  William  Home,  parson  of  the  parish  church  of  Henton, 
Westminster,  in  the  diocese  of  Winchester,  to  the  parish  church  of  Bysseley,  in  the  same 
diocese,  on  an  exchange  of  benefices  with  Richard  Strother. 

Jan.  30.  Licence,   for  26«.  8d.  paid  in   the  hanaper,  for  William  Gaynesford, 

Westminster.  Nicholas  Gaynesford,  Nicholas  Sybyle,  Bartholomew  Bolney,  John 
Elmeruge  and  John  Catesby  to  grant  the  manor  of  Poyle  with  appurten- 
ances in  Guldeford,  Stoke,  Slyfeld,  Chedyngfolde  and  elsewhere  in  the 
county  of  Surrey,  held  in  chief,  to  John  Gaynesford  the  elder,  esquire,  and 
his  heirs  and  assigns. 

Jan.  28.  Grant  to  the  king's  servant  John  Scot,  knight,  controller  of  tlie  king's 

Westminster,  household,  and  his  assigns  of  the  custody  of  all  lands,  tenements,  rents, 
services,  reversions  and  possessions  in  the  coimty  of  Sussex  late  of  John 
Warnecamp,  Thomas  Bartelot  and  Thomas  Rose  which  descended  on  their 
death  to  William  Bartelot  as  kinsman  and  heir  of  the  said  John  Warnecamp 
and  Thomas  Rose  or  as  son  and  heir  of  the  said  Thomas  Bartelot  and  Joan 
his  wife  and  came  into  the  king's  hands  by  reason  of  the  idiotcy  of  the 
said  William,  to  hold  the  same  vrith  all  issues  from  the  time  when  they 
were  taken  into  the  king's  hands  during  the  life  of  William,  provided  that 
he  find  sufficient  necessaries  for  him.  By  p.s. 

Feb.  3.  Pardon  to  the  king's  servitor,  William  Pecche,  knight,  late  of  Lullyngeston^ 

Westminster,  co.  Kent,  late  sheriff  of  Kent,  alicu  late  of  London,  of  all  offences 
committed  by  him  and  all  penalties,  forfeitures,  ransomes,  fines,  amerce- 
ments, reliefs,  scntages,  debts,  accounts  and  arreai's  due  from  him  to  the 
king.  By  p.s. 

Feb.  4.  Grant  for  life  to  the  king's  servitor  John  Gogh,  yeoman  of  the  king's 

Westminster,  larder,  for  his  good  service  to  the  king's  father  and  the  king,  of  the  custody 

of  a  weir  called  *  Horndwere '  by  the  castle  of  Wyndesore  with  all  waters, 

islands,  profits  and  other  commodities,  in  lieu  of  a  like  grant  to  him  by 

letters  patent  dated  6  June,  3  Edward  IV.  surrendered.  By  p.s. 

Feb.  12.         Licence,  for  6  marks  paid  by  him  in  the  hanaper,  for  William  Kayleway 
Westminster,  to  enfeoff  Agoes  late  the  wife  of  John  Storke  of  his  manor  of  Corston,  co. 
Somerset,  held  in  chief,  to  hold  the  same  to  herself  and  the  heirs  of  her 
body  with,  remainder  to  the  right  heire  of  Thomas  Inge. 


424  CALENDAR  OF  PATENT  ROLLS. 


14,55,  Mkmbranb  23. 

March  7.         Ratification  of  the  estate  which  Matthew  Vrgi  has  as  parson  of  the 
WoBtminBter.   parish  church  of  Llanraeader  with  the  chapel  of  Llangeduojn  and  Llanar- 
mavn  for  the  portion  of  Gruffiid  Voel  in  Machnant,  in  the  diocese  of  St. 
Asaph. 

Jfarch  5.  Grant  to  the  king's  servant  Thom&s  Herbert  the  elder,  one  of  the 
WestmiiiBter.  esquires  of  the  body,  and  the  heirs  male  of  his  body  of  the  manor  of 
Harscombe  or  Hariscctmbe,  the  manor  of  Dontesborn  Rous,  a  toft  and  a 
virgate  of  land  called  '  Organs '  in  Uariscombe,  a  toft  and  a  virgate  of  land 
in  Harsfeld  called  '  Henbare wes,'  a  messuage,  a  toft  and  2s,  of  rent  in  Don- 
tisborn  and  all  lands  and  tenements  in  Hariscombe  and  Dontisborn,  co. 
Gloucester,  late  of  William  Mull  or  Mille,  a  messuage,  a  water  mill,  two 
fulling  mills  and  meadows,  feedings,  pastures  and  wood  called  '  Chalfordes  * 
in  Chalford,  a  tenement,  40  acres  of  land,  10  acres  of  meadow,  10  acres  of 
pasture  and  6  acres  of  wood  in  Longeney,  and  three  tofts,  two  virgates  of 
land,  20  acres  of  meadow  and  20  acres  of  pasture  in  Oolcombe  by  Mynchen- 
hampton,  co.  Gloucester,  the  manor  of  Treget,  co.  Hereford,  a  yearly  rent 
of  26«.  8<f.  from  the  abbot  and  convent  of  Dowre  in  the  mardi  of  \V^ale8 
adjoining  the  said  county,  10/.  lOf .  8cf.  of  yearly  rent  in  Nubury,  co.  Berks, 
a  third  part  of  all  fines,  amercements  and  profits  from  all  courts  baron  in 
Nubury,  a  third  part  of  the  tolls  and  profits  of  a  fair  at  Nubury  at  the  feast 
of  Corpus  Cbristi,  a  third  part  of  another  fair  there  at  Midsummer,  a  third 
part  of  the  tolls  and  profits  of  a  market  there  weekly  on  Thursdays  the 
manor  of  Berton  Mull  or  Berton  Mill,  co.  Da  von,  and  six  messuages,  100 
acres  of  land,  10  acres  of  meadow,  20  acres  of  pasture  and  10^.  rent  in 
Berton  Mull,  late  of  William  Mull,  or  Mille,  knight,  and  in  the  king's  hands 
by  reason  of  his  forfeiture  and  by  virtue  of  an  act  in  Parliament  at  West- 
minster, 4  November,  1  Edward  IV.  the  manor  of  Kynges  Nynyngton,  co. 
Devon,  and  10  messuages,  200  acres  of  land,  20  acres  of  meadow,  60  acres 
of  pasture  and  40s,  rent  in  the  same  county  late  of  Thomas  Cornewall  or 
Cornewaill,  esquire,  in  the  king's  hands  by  reason  of  his  forfeiture  and  the 
act  aforesaid,  and  a  messuage  called  Garlik  with  a  garden  adjoining  in 
Brokestrete  in  the  parish  of  Stebenhith,  co.  Middlesex,  late  of  Jasper,  earl 
Df  Pembroke,  in  the  king's  hands  by  reason  of  his  forfeiture  and  the  act 
aforesaid,  with  all  franchises,  liberties,  courts,  juiisdictions,  leets,  views  of 
frank-pledge,  hundreds,  fairs,  market8,  parks,  stews,  warrens,  knights'  fees, 
services,  rents,  fee-farms  and  advowsonp,  to  hold  by  the  services  of  as  many 
knights'  fees  and  other  services  as  they  were  held  by  before  1  March, 
1  Edward  IV.  with  all  issues  from  4  March,  1  Edward  IV.  By  p.s. 

March  14.        Appointment,  during  pleasuie,  of  Richard  Wylly  as   the   deputy   and 
WeBtmiDBter.  lieutenant  of  John  Wenlok,  knight,  chief  butler  of  England,  in  the  port  of 
the  town  of  Brugewater  and  ports  and  places  adjacent. 

March  13.  Appointment  for  life  of  Geoffrey  Crate,  knight,  as  tlie  king's  lieutenant  of 
Westminster,  the  Isle  of  Wight  and  the  castle  and  lordship  of  Caresbroke  within  the 
island,  and  grant  to  him  for  life  of  the  said  castle  and  all  manors,  lordships, 
lands,  rents,  services,  woods  and  revenues  belonging  to  the  king  within  the 
island  with  the  king's  forest  and  park  there  and  with  courts,  leets  and  their 
profits,  wreck  of  sea,  forfeited  goods  and  fines  without  rendering  any 
account;  in  consideration  of  his  having  been  lieutenant  from  26  July, 
1  Edward  IV.  by  letters  patent,  bearing  the  burden  of  the  payment  of  the 
wages  of  men-at-arms  and  archers  there,  and  his  having  released  to  the  king 
the  sum  of  347/.  8j.  due  for  the  wages  of  himself  and  other  men-at-arms 
and  archers  of  his  retinue  and  taken  upon  himself  the  safe-custody  and 
governance  of  the  islacid,  castle  and  lordship  at  his  own  expense.       By  p.8. 

March  16.        Grant  to  John  (Jourtenay,  esquire,  and  his  heirs  and  assigns  of  the  manors 
Westmintter.   of  Exmynstre,  Kenfortb   or   Kenford,  and   Kenne   and  the  hundred  of 


5  EDWARD  IV.^Part  I.  426 


1465,  Membrane  23 — cant. 

Ezmynstrc,  co.  Devon,  with  knighls'  fees,  advowsons,  warrens,  regards, 
franchises,  liberties,  courts,  views  of  frank-pledge,  fisheries  and  other 
profits,  late  of  Thomas  Gourtenay,  last  earl  of  Devon,  a  rebel  attainted  of 
high  treason  by  virtue  of  an  act  of  Parliament  at  Westminster,  4  November, 
1  Edward  IV.  to  hold  by  the  services  of  as  many  knights'  fees  and  other 
services  as  they  were  held  by  before  1  March,  1  Edward  lY.  and  grant  to 
him  of  all  issaes  of  the  above  from  8  November,  1  Edward  lY.  By  p.s. 

March  15.  Grant  to  William  Herbert,  esquire,  and  the  heirs  male  of  his  body  of  the 
Weitmiiuter.  manor  and  lordship  of  Kilpek,  co.  Hereford,  in  the  march  of  Wales, 
forfeited  to  the  king  by  reason  of  an  act  in  Parliament  at  Westminster,  4 
November,  1  Edward  IV.  to  hold  with  knights'  fees,  advowsons,  parks, 
warrens,  courts  leet,  views  of  frank-pledge,  franchises,  rights,  privileges  and 
other  appurtenances  by  the  services  of  as  many  knights'  fees  and  other 
serx'ices  as  they  were  held  by  before  1  March,  1  Edward  IV.  with  all  issues 
from  4  March,  1  Edward  IV.  By  p.s. 


Mrmbrane  22. 

March  9.  Grant  to  William  Herbert,  king's  knight,  whom  the  king  has  raised  to 
Westminster,  the  rank  of  baron,  and  his  heirs  and  assigns,  for  his  good  service  against 
Henry  VI.  and  Henry,  duke  of  Exeter,  Jasper,  earl  of  Pembroke,  James, 
earl  of  Wiltshire,  and  other  rebels  and  the  reduction  by  him  of  divers  castles, 
towns,  fortlets,  and  territories  lately  held  by  them  in  the  parts  of  Wales,  of 
six  messuages,  60  acres  of  land,  20  acres  of  meadow  and  40  acres  of  pasture, 
in  the  parishes  of  Methenny,  Troe,  Cumkarvan,  Llanthomas,  Llangeven  and 
Llanyssen  in  the  parts  of  Wales,  parcel  of  the  king's  lordship  of  Usk,  and 
all  rents  and  services  of  all  tenants  oP  the  king,  freemen  and  bondmen, 
belonging  to  the  king  for  their  lands  in  the  said  parishes  within  the  following 
limits,  viz  : — from  a  place  where  a  streamlet  called  '  Penkon '  enters  into  a 
stream  called  <  Troe '  along  the  said  streamlet  to  another  streamlet  called 
'Llymman,'  and  along  this  to  a  way  called  <  Hewle  a  Cadeyre,'  and  along  this 
to  a  close  called  '  Allte  ar  Heythe,'  and  from  this  directly  to  a  cross  called 
'Croysse  Lloyd,'  and  from  this  directly  to  a  streamlet  called  'Keyre,'  and 
downthis  to  another  streamlet  called '  01  wy,'  and  down  this  to  a  place  called 
'  Bede  a  ponte  Vayn,'  and  thence  to  a  y^bj  called '  Hewle  David  ap  Jevan,'  and 
along  this  to  a  cross  called  '  Croysse  Meurik  Vaghan,'  and  thence  by  a  way 
called '  Hewle  Kenvyn  Voell '  to  a  streamlet  called  'Peylle,'  and  along  this  to  a 
place  where  it  enters  into  a  streamlet  called '  Olwy,'  and  idong  this  to  a  place 
where  a  streamlet  called  '  Nant  a  Burrough  '  enters  into  it,  and  up  this  to 
a  spring  called  '  Fynnon  a  Burroneb,'  and  from  this  directly  to  a  place  called 
*  Goweyn  a  Llaka  Halog  '  in  GoheUouk,  and  then  by  the  highway  in  Gohel- 
louk  l^ing  from  Usk  to  Raglan  to  a  streamlet  called  <  Nant  a  Gloyth ' 
where  the  said  highway  crosses  it  into  the  lordship  of  Raglan  .and  also 
certain  villeins,  bondmen  and  bondwomen  of  the  king  with  their  issues 
within  the  same  limits,  to  hold  with  rents,  services  and  knights'  fees 
separate  and  distinct  from  the  said  lordship  of  Usk.  And  whereas  he  holds 
in  chief  the  castle,  lordship  and  manor  of  Raglan  and  the  manors  of 
Pendauth  and  Methenny  as  of  the  castle  and  lordship  of  Usk  and  the 
manor  and  lordship  of  I^n^stowe  as  of  the  castle  and  lordship  of  Monne- 
month,  the  king  releases  to  him  and  his  heirs  all  rents,  services  and  demands 
due  for  the  same.  The  above-mentioned  castle,  manors,  lordships,  lands, 
rents  and  services  shall  form  one  united  royal  lordship,  called  the  lordship  of 
Raglan,  held  in  chief  by  the  service  of  one  knight's  fee,  and  the  tenants  and 
resideBts  within  the  said  limits  shall  be  exonerated  from  suits  and  atten- 
danes  at  the  kine's  courts  within  the  said  lordship  of  Usk  and  Monnemouth. 
And  the  said  William  and  his  heirs  and  assigns  shall  have  within  the  said 
limits  all  royal  rights,  prerogatives  and  customs  belonging  to  royal  lonisbips; 


426  CALENDAR  OF  PATENT  ROLLS. 


1455^  Membrane  22^^ont. 

and  all  royal  courtA  and  other  jarisdictions,  powers  and  authorities  as  in  any 
other  royal  lordship  in  Wales  or  the  marches  of  Wales  with  all  fines, 
amercements,  issues  and  profits  from  the  same  before  their  stewards  at 
Raglan,  with  power  of  oyer  and  terminer,  an  authentic  seal  for  commis- 
sions, writs  and  warrants,  and  power  of  appointing  justices  to  hold  cessions 
in  eyre  and  other  cessions  and  courts,  and  they  shall  have  chattels  of  felons, 
fugitives  and  outlaws,  deodands,  escheats  and  foi-feitures  as  the  king  has  in 
the  said  lordships  of  Usk  and  Monnemouth  or  as  Richard,  earl  of  Warwick, 
and  Anne  his  wife  have  in  her  right  in  the  manor  and  lordship  of 
Bergevenny  or  the  lord  of  any  other  royal  lordship  in  Wales,  and  no 
justices,  stewards,  escheators,  coroners,  ringilds  or  other  officers  or  ministers 
of  the  king  shall  interfere.  And  they  shall  have  a  market  weekly  on 
Thursday  at  Raglan,  and  two  fairs  there  yearly,  one  on  the  day  of  St. 
Dunstan  and  the  two  following  days  and  the  other  on  the  vigil,  day  and 
morrow  of  SS.  Simon  and  Jude,  with  courts,  tolls  and  profits,  provided 
that  these  be  not  to  the  damage  of  neighbouring  markets  and  fairs.      By  K. 

Pardon  to  William  Berkeley,  knight,  lord  of  Berkeley,  of  all  entrances 
and  intrusions  into  the  castle  of  Berkeley  and  all  other  manors,  lordships, 
lands,  rents,  reversions  and  services  in  the  counties  of  Gloucester,  Somerset 
and  Hereford  and  elsewhere  within  the  realm  of  England  and  the  marches 
of  Wales  adjoining  those  counties  on  the  death  of  James  Berkeley,  knight^ 
late  lord  of  Berkeley,  his  father,  whose  heir  he  is,  which  should  descend 
to  him  by  his  father's  death. 

VcuMted  because  elsewhere  in  the  fourth  year. 

March  23.  Grant  to  Roger  Yaughan,  king's  knight,  and  the  heirs  male  of  his  body 
Westminster,  of  the  manors  of  Oxenwiche,  Scurlacastell,  Nicholaston,  Reynoldeston  and 
Mauncellysfeld  in  the  lordship  of  Gower  in  the  parts  of  Wales,  eighteen  mes- 
suages, three  water-mills,  a  fulling-mill,  200  acres  of  land,  12  acres  of  meadow 
and  200  acres  of  pasture  in  the  parish  of  Llanrydian  in  the  same  lordship, 
40s.  of  rent  in  Kydwelly  in  Wales  and  all  other  lands,  reversions,  rents  and 
possessions  in  Wales  with  all  franchises,  liberties,  courts,  views  of  frank- 
pledge, hundreds,  knights'  fees  and  advowsons  late  of  Philip  Mauncell, 
esquire,  and  in  the  king's  hands  by  his  forfeiture  and  by  virtue  of  an  act  in 
Parliament  at  Westminster,  29  April,  3  Edward  IV.  and  forty  messuages, 
200  acres  of  land,  200  acres  of  pasture  and  200  acres  of  heath  in  Gower, 
Kilvey,  Swaynesey  and  the  parisn  of  Llangeveywagh  in  the  parts  of  Wales 
and  all  other  lands,  rents,  reversions  and  possessions  in  Wales  late  of 
Hopkyn  ap  Rees  ap  Hopkyn,  in  the  king's  hands  by  his  forfeiture  and  the 
act  aforesaid,  with  all  issues  from  4  March,  1  Edward  IV.  By  K. 

March  22.        Grant  for  life  to  the  king's  servitors  John  Kirkadam,  yeoman  of  the 

Westminiiten  pantry,  and  Walter  Mathewe,  groom  of  the  pantry,  of  a  pasture  called 

Heglyngton  Fenne  in  the  county  of  Lincoln,  lately  belonging  to  John,  late 

viscount  Beaumont,  attainted  of  high  treason  by  authority  of  Parliament, 

and  in  the  king's  hands  by  his  forfeiture.  By  p.s. 

Mbmbrans  21. 

March  26.        Grant  to  the  king's  kingsman  John  Nevile,  earl  of  Northumberland, 
Westminster,  whom  by  letters  patent  dated  26  May,  3  Edward  IV.  the  king  appointed 
warden  and  guardian  of  the  East  Marches  of  England  towards  Scotland,  and 
who  has  been  warden  and  guardian  from  that  date  until  28  Februaiy  last  and 
has  paid  the  sum  of  80007.  for  wages  and  regards  of  captains  and  soldiers 
on  the  safe  custody  of  the  said  marches  but  has  only  received  the  sum  of 
6000/.  from  the  king,  of  all  cuptoms  and  subsidies  from  any  merchandise  in 
the  port  of  Newcastle  on  Tyne  and  other  places  adjacent,  except  the  sums 
appointed  for  the  treasurer  and  victuallers  of  the  town  of  Calais  from  the 
subsidies  of  wools  and  wool-fells  by  authority  of  Parliament,  until  he  or  his 


5  EDWARD  IV.— Part  I.  427 


1465.  Membrane  21— «on^. 

executors  shall  have  received  2000/.  from  the  same.     And  meanwhile  he 
shall  from  time  to  time  nominate  one  of  the  collectors.  .Rj  pj. 

March  23.  Grant  to  William  Herhert,  knight,  lord  Herbert,  of  all  the  gear,  fittings, 
Westminster,  wines  and  other  merchandise  on  a  great  ship  of  his  called  Gabrielly  which  he 
had  sent  at  great  expense  to  foreign  parts  and  which  on  its  return  from 
thence  to  England  laden  with  divers  wines  and 'merchandise  was  wrecked 
on  the  coast  of  Ireland,  through  which  the  said  gear,  fittings,  wines  and 
merchandise  were  cast  ashore  and  belong  to  the  king  as  wreck  of  sea. 

ByK. 

March  26.        Inspeximun  and  confirmation    to    the    burgesses  of    the    borough    of 
Westminster.   Dorchestre,  co.  Dorset,  of    letters  patent  dated  13  June,  19  Richard  II. 
inspecting   and  confirming  a  charter  dated  at   Stamford,   26   June,    11 
Edward  III.  [^Charter  Roll,  11  Edward  III.  No.  26.] 

For  4  marks  paid  in  the  hanaper. 

March  27.  Grant  for  life  to  Thomas  Lumley,  knight,  and  George  Lumlej,  knight,  of 
Westminster,  the  office  of  constable  of  the  king's  castle  of  Scardeburgh,  co.  York,  and  the 
custody  of  the  castle,  and  also  aJl  issues  and  profits  belonging  to  the  castle, 
receiving  yearly  for  the  custody  such  wages  as  were  allowed  in  the 
Exchequer  in  the  times  of  Edward  III.  and  Kichard  II.,  viz.  20  marks 
from  the  issues  of  the  county  of  York  and  20  marks  from  the  fee  farm  of 
the  town  of  Scardeburgh  and  the  manor  of  Walgrave,  co.  York,  with  a  robe 
yearly  at  the  great  wardrobe ;  in  lieu  of  a  grant  to  them  for  life  of  the 
office  of  constable  of  the  said  castle  by  letters  patent,  surrendered.      By  K. 


Membrane  20. 

March  11.  Grant  to  the  king's  kinswoman  Margaret,  duchess  of  Somerset,  of  the 
WeRtminster.  lordships  and  manors  of  Welles,  Graynesby,  Bradley,  Aby,  Skendelby, 
Alforth,  Wythym  and  Connyngesholme,  co.  Lincoln,  with  their  members 
and  all  other  lands  and  tenements  in  Welles,  Graynesby,  Bradley,  Aby, 
Skendelby,  Alforth,  Wythyrn  and  Conningesholme  in  the  king's  hands  by 
reason  of  an  Act  in  Parliament  at  Westminster,  4  November,  1  Edward 
IV.  against  Leo,  iate  lord  of  WeUes,  to  hold  the  same  as  dower  with 
knight's  fees,  advowsons,  courts  leet,  views  or  frank*pledge,  wards,  reliefs, 
cscheatp,  fairs,  markets,  parks,  warrens  and  all  other  profits,  with  issues 
from  Easter,  1  Edward  IV.  in  lieu  of  like  grants  to  her  of  the  same  for 
for  life  with  remainder  to  John  Welles,  esquire,  her  son,  by  several  letters 
patent,  which  are  invalid.  By  p.s. 

Vacated  by  surrender  and  cancelled^  because  on  28  Miit/y  8  Edward  IV. 
the  kina  by  signet  letter,  now  on  the  files  of  Chancery ^  commanded  the 
chancellor  and  the  keeper  of  the  roui  of  Chancery  to  receive  the  above 
letters  from  the  duchess  and  cancel  them  and  their  enrolment, 

March  27.  Inspeximus  and  confirmation  to  the  burgesses  and  other  men  and 
Westminster,  tenants  of  the  towns  of  Kerdyf,  Usk,  Kaerlion,  Neuport,  Coubmgge, 
Neeth  and  Kenefeg  of  letters  patent  dated  25  March,  SI  Henry  YI.  in- 
specting and  confirming  to  Richard  Neville,  eari  of  Warwick,  and  Anne  his 
wife  and  the  heirs  of  her  body  and  the  burgesses,  men  and  tenants  of  the 
towns  of  Kerdyf,  Gonbrugge,  Neeth  and  Kenefeg  letters  patent  dated 
20  February,  2  Henry  lY,  inspecting  and  confinning  to  the  bnrgesses  and 
men  of 'KeI^dyf  a  charter  dated  at  Westminster,  20  July,  33  Edward  IIL 
[Charter  Roll,  33  Edward  HI  No.  7,]  inspecting  and  confinning  to 
Edward  le  Despenser  and  the  bnrgesses,  men  and  tenants  of  the 
above-mentioned  towns  a  charter  dated  at  Westminster,  4  March,  17  Edward 
II.  [Charter  Roll;  17  Xdward  II  No.  25.]  [Printed  in  the  Cartae  de 
Glamorgan.']  For  20^.^paid  in  the  hanaper. 


428  CALENDA.R  OF  PATENT  ROLLS. 


1465.  Membrane  20 — cont. 

March  26.        Presentation  of  Simon  Beryngtou  to  the  pariuh  ciiurch  of  Pjrmblynge  by 
WestminRter.  Calais,  void  by  ihe  resignation  of  William  Savage.    The  letters  are  directed 
to  Th.  archbishop  of  Canterbury. 

March  24.        Ratidcation  of  the  estate  which  Hugh  Tresgarn  has  as  parson  of  the 

WestminBter.   parish  church  of  St  Donwenna,  Virgin,  and  St.  Peter,  Etosfeire,  united  to 

the  same,  in  the  diocese  of  Bangor.  By  p.s. 

March  22.  Grant  to  David  Groogh,  esquire,  and  the  heirs  male  of  his  body  of  the 
Westminster,  castle,  town,  lordship  and  manor  of  Stepilton,  late  of  Tliomas  Coroewailt, 
esquire,  in  the  parts  called  Logharneys  in  the  march  of  Wales  and  in  the 
king's  hands  by  reason  of  his  forfeiture  and  by  virtue  of  an  act  in  Parlia- 
ment at  Westminster,  4  November,  1  Edward  IV.  with  all  franchises, 
liberties,  courts,  jurisdictions,  leets,  views  of  frank-pledge,  hundreds,  fairs, 
markets,  parks,  stews,  warrens^  knights'  fees,  rents,  services  and  advowsons, 
and  all  profits  belonging  to  the  king  before  the  present  time,  to  hold  the 
same  by  the  services  of  as  many  knights'  fees  and  odier  services  as  they 
were  held  by  before  4  March,  1  Edward  IV.  By  p.8. 

March  26.    .   GKsnerai  pardon  to  William  Cudbert,  late  of  the  town  of  Newcastle-on- 
Westminster.  Tyne,  merchant,  provided  that  henceforward  he   do  not  dwell  within  the 
said  town.  By  K. 

The  like  to  John  Nele  late  of  the  same  town,  merchant. 

March  28.  Grant  for  life  to  the  king's  kinswoman  Katharine,  duchess  of  Norfolk,  of 
Westminster,  the  manors  of  Barton  and  Stuton,  co.  Lincoln,  with  liberties,  franchises, 
advowsons,  and  knights'  fees,  in  the  king's  hands  by  authority  of  Parlia- 
ment at  Westminster,  4  November,  1  Edward  IV.  to  hold  the  same  by  the 
services  of  as  many  knights'  fees  and  other  services  as  they  were  held 
by  before  4  March,  1  Edward  IV.  with  all  issues  from  that  date.       By  p.8. 


Mrmbranr  19. 

March  14.  Grant  to  the  king*s  kinsman  John,  earl  of  Worcester,  master  of  a  fra- 
Westminster.  ternity  or  gild  in  honour  of  St.  Mary  the  Virgin  in  the  chapel  of  St.  Mary 
founded  by  Richard  I.  in  the  cemetery  of  Berkyngchirche,  London,  where 
an  image  of  St.  Mary  was  placed  by  Edward  I.  and  to  John  Scot,  knight, 
Thomas  Colt,  John  Tate  and  John  Croke,  wardens  of  the  said  fraternity 
or  gild,  of  the  manor  or  priory  of  Totyngbeke,  co.  Surrey,  formerly  belong- 
ing to  the  alien  priory  of  Okeboame,  with  all  its  members  and  appurtenances 
and  the  advowson  of  the  church  of  Streteham,  co.  Surrey,  to  hold  with  all 
liberties,  franchises  and  profits  for  the  sustenance  of  two  chaplains  to 
celebrate  divioe  service  in  the  said  chapel  for  the  good  estate  of  the  king 
and  his  mother  and  his  brothers,  the  dukes  of  Clarence  and  Gloucester,  and- 
for  their  souls  after  death  and  the  souls  of  his  father  Richard,  late  duke  of 
York,  and  his  brother  Edmund,  late  earl  of  Rutland,  and  all  the  faithful 
departed  and  especially  those  who  shed  their  blood  for  his  right ;  and  for 
the  repair  of  the  said  chapel  by  the  ordinance  of  the  said  master  and 
wardens.  Grant  also  to  the  master  and  wardens  and  brethren  and  sisters  of 
the  said  fraternity  or  gild  of  the  custody  of  the  sail  chapel.  And  grant  to 
the  master  and  wardens  that  they  shall  have  return  of  writs  and  executions 
within  the  said  manor  and  priory,  that  no  sherifi^  or  other  minister  of  the 
king  shall  enter  therein,  and  that  the  goods  of  the  said  chapel  and 
the  goods  of  the  farmers,  tenants,  and  residents  within  the  said  manor  or 
priory  shall  not  be  taken  for  the  use  of  the  king  or  queen.  By  K. 

March  II.       Grant  to  Richard  Caunton,  king's  clerk,  doctor  of  either  law,  of  the  cus- 

Westminster.  tody  of  the  temporalities  of  the  bishopric  of  St.  Asaph,  in  the  king's  hands  by 

reason  of  the  rebellion  of  Thomas,  bishop  of  St.  Asaph,  to  hold  the  same  so 

long  as  they  remain  in  the  king's  hands,  without  rendering  any  account ; 


I 
t 


5  EDWARD  IV.^Paut  I.  429 


1465.  Membrane  19 — cont. 

and  pardon  to  him  of  a  yearly  farm  of  20  markn  due  from  the  bishop  to  the 
priDce  of  Wales  at  his  exchequer  of  Chester  for  a  meadow^  and  pasture  in 
the  county  of  Flint.     [Fcedera.]  By  p.«. 

March  20.        Appointment,  during  pleasure,  of  John  Harpour  and  William  Weldon  as 

Wettminster.  auditors  of  the   accounts   of  chamberlains,    sheriffs,  escheators,  ringilds, 

bailiffs,  reeves  and  other  officers  and  ministers  of  the  king  in  the  parts  of 

South  Wales,  receiving  such  fees  as  John  Geryn  and  John  Somere,  late 

auditors,  had  at  the  hands  of  the  chamberlain  or  any  other  minister  there. 

By  bill  of  the  treasurer. 

March  19.  Licence,  for  10  marks  paid  in  the  hanaper,for  Ralph  Botiller  of  Sudeley, 
Wefltminster.  knight,  Richard  Fenys  of  Dacres,  knight,  Thomas  Echyngham,  knight, 
Roger  Leukenoi'e,  knight,  Thomas  Hoo,  esquire,  Thomas  Leukenore, 
esquire,  and  Bartholomew  Bolney,  esquire,  to  grant  the  manor  of  Bra- 
bourne,  CO.  Kent,  held  in  chief,  to  Thomas,  archbishop  of  Canterbury, 
Henry,  earl  of  Essex,  John  Wenlok  of  Wenlok,  knight,  William  Tyrell  the 
elder,  knight,  Edward  Berkeley,  Nicholas  Husee,  William  Haute,  Walter 
Hert,  clerk,  Richard  Forde,  John  Sellyng,  esquire,  John  Ernele,  John 
Goryng,  Thomas  Belyngeham,  Nicholas  Lathell,  John  Fust,  John  Apsle, 
Vincent  Fynch,  Roger  Brent,  John  Aldy  and  Thomas  Goldwell,  *  fysshe- 
monger '  and  their  heirs;  for  these  latter  to  grant  160  acres  of  land  and 
2  acres  of  wood  in  Brabourne,  parcel  of  the  said  manor,  to  John  Scotte, 
knight,  and  his  heirs ;  and  for  him  to  grant  the  same  to  John  Fogge, 
knight,  John  Cheyne,  knight,  John  Dygges,  William  Fynch,  William 
Cheyne,  John  Cheyne  the  younger,  John  Fogge  the  younger,  William 
Harlakynden,  John  Hert  and  Thomas  Ovyngton  and  their  heirs. 

March  26.        General  pardon  to  John  Bontyng  son  of  William  Bontyng  of  Wycombe, 
WeBtminster.  co.  Buckingham.  By  K. 

March  24.        Grant  for  life  to  the  king's  servitor  Robert  Bunnok,  for  his  iroo<l  service 

Westminster,  in  the  instruction  of  boys  in  the  art  of  music  to  sing  in  the  king's  chapel,  of 

a  yearly  rent  of  10  marks  in  the  exchequer  of  Kermerdyn.  By  p.s. 

Membrane  18* 

March  20.     •  General    pardon    to    John    Wechynden,    alias    Wychynden,    late    of 

WestmiDf ter.  Horsemonden,  co.  Kent,  '  yoman,'  alias  ^  sowdyer,'  of  all  offences  committed 

by  him  before  5  Februaiy  last.  By  p.s. 

March  19.       Grant  for  life,  from   Easter  next,  to  the  king's  sister  Anne,  duchess  of 

WeBtminster.   Exeter,  of  the  king's  manor  or  lordship  of  Hadleigh  or  Hadley,  co.  Essex, 

rendering  to  the  king  16/.  yearly.  By  K. 

March  18.  Grant  to  Henry  Courtenay  son  of  Thomas  Courtpnay,  late  earl  of  Devon, 
Westminster,  and  his  heirs  of  the  lordships  and  manors  of  Huntebeare,  Baylesford,  Holde- 
ham,  Chulmelegh,  Dovelton,  Cornwode,  Twykebeare,  Whitewyll,  Tow- 
syngton  and  Northpole  with  their  members,  co.  Devon,  the  boroughs  of 
Chulmelegh  and  Newton  Fopylford,  co.  Devon,  the  lordships  and  manors  of 
Brommore  and  Lymyngton  and  the  borough  of  Lymyngton,  co.  Southamp- 
ton, the  lordship  and  manor  of  Hemyngton,  co.  Somerset,  all  messuages, 
lands,  rents,  reversions  and  services  in  Huntebeare,  Baylesford,  Holdeham, 
Chulmlegh,  Dovelton,  Cornwode,  Twykebear,  Whitewyll,  Towsyngton,North- 
pole,  Alfyngton,  Barnestapill,  Bokelonde  Trille  and  Smalecombe,  co.  Devon, 
and  Brommore,  Lymyngton  and  Hemyngton.  in  the  counties  of  Southampton 
and  Somerset,  and  a  yearly  rent  of  1 8/.  6^ .  8c?.  which  the  sheriff  of  Devon 
used  to  render  to  the  said  earl  and  his  ancestors,  in  the  king's  hands  by  the 
forfeiture  of  Thomas  Conrtenay,  last  earl  of  Devon,  and  by  reason  of  an  act 
of  Parliament  at  Westminster,  4  November,  1  Edward  IV.  with  advowsons, 
knights'  fees,  liberties,  franchises,  fairs,  markets,  parks,  warrens,  courts 
leet,  views  of  frank-pledge,  chattels  of  felons  and  fugitives  and  nil  other 


430  CALENDAE  OP  PATENT  ROLLS. 


1465.  Membrane  18 — coni. 

profits,  and  the  manor  of  Thorn  by  Otery  St.  Mary,  co.  Devon,  in  the 
king's  hands  by  the  forfeiture  of  John  Gourtenay,  knight,  son  of  the  said 
late  earl  the  father,  and  by  reason  of  the  act  aforesaid,  and  all  the  issues  of 
the  above  with  wards,  marriages  and  reliefs  from  the  death  of  the  said  last 
earl,  without  rending  anything  to  the  king.  By  K. 

March  16.  Grant  for  life,  from  Michaelmas  last,  to  the  king'fl  consort  Elizabeth, 
WestmioBter.  qaeen  of  England,  in  part  support  of  her  expenses  in  her  chamber,  of  the 
manor  of  Wyraidesburj,  co.  Buckingham,  the  manors  or  lorddbips  of 
Bradwell  and  Haveryng  atte  Bonre,  co.  Essex,  and  Lokerley,  Tuderley  and 
Odyham,  co.  Southampton,  the  manors  of  Gokeham  and  Bray,  co.  Berks, 
and  Benestede  aud  Wanton,  co.  Surrey,  the  manor,  town  and  barton  of 
Gyllyngham,  in  the  counties  of  Somerset  and  Dorset^  the  lordship  or  manor 
of  Cosham,  the  lordship  or  manor  of  Merston  Meysy,  the  castle,  manor,  park, 
borough  and  lordship  of  Devise,  the  town  of  B>oude,  the  forest  of  Melkesham, 
Feuesham  and  Chippenham  and  the  lordship,  borough  and  barton  of 
Marleburgh,  co.  Wilts,  the  castle,  lordship  and  forest  of  Bokyngham  with 
all  its  appurtenances  between  the  bridges  of  Staumford  and  the  gates  of 
Oxford,  the  supervision,  herbages  and  pannages  in  the  laund  of  Benefeld 
and  the  bailiwick  there  called  ^Bokyngham  Bailly,'  the  kings'  parks  of 
Brigstoke  and  Cliffe  and  the  foreign  woods  there  called  'Brigstoke  Bailly ' 
and  '  Cliffe  Bailly,'  and  the  supervision  of  vert  and  venison  in  the  said  forest^ 
parks  and  bailiwicks  in  the  county  of  Northampton^  with  knights'  fees, 
advowsons,  views  of  frank*pledge,  leets,  courts,  franchises,  lib^ties  and 
warrens,  102/.  lbs.  6d»  yearly  from  the  farm  of  the  town  of  Bristol,  20/. 
yearly  from  the  fee  farm  of  the  town  of  Norwich  and  the  augmentation  of 
the  same,  20/.  yearly  from  the  farm  of  the  borough  of  Bedford,  40/.  yearly 
from  the  farm  of  the  town  of  Ipswich,  40/.  yearly  from  the  abbot,  prior  and 
convent  of  St.  Edmunds  for  the  custody  of  the  abbey  and  its  temporalities, 
9/.  l&r.  9(/.  yearly  from  the  heirs  male  of  Michael  de  la  Pole,  earl  of 
Suffolk,  from  the  surplusage  of  the  manor  of  Lowestoft,  and  the  hundred  of 
Luddyngland,  co.  Suffolk,  50  marks  yearly  from  the  abbot,  prior  and 
convent  of  St.  Albans  for  the  voidance  of  the  abbey  and  its  temporalities 
15/  yearly  from  the  heirs  of  Hugh  de  Veer  from  the  farm  of  Badwell, 
CO.  Essex,  10/.  yearly  from  the  chancellor  of  the  University  of  Cambridge 
from  the  custody  of  the  assize  of  bread  and  ale  there,  60/.  yearly  from  the 
farm  of  (he  manor  or  barton  of  Bristol  and  the  hundred  of  the  barton  of 
Bristol,  CO.  Gloucester,  54/.  I2s,  yearly  from  the  men  of  the  town  of 
Nottingham  from  the  &rm  of  their  town,  40/.  yearly  from  the  &rm  of  the 
town  of  Derby,  46/.  yearlv  from  the  fi&rm  and  increment  of  the  town  of 
Southampton,  35/.  yearly  nx>m  the  farm  of  the  town  of  Oxford,  40/.  yearly 
from  William  Wylcotes,  esquire,  and  his  heirs  for  the  manor  of  Hedyngton 
with  the  hundred  of  Bolyngdene  without  the  north  gate  of  Oxford,  15/. 
yearly  from  Simon  son  of  Robert  de  Daventre  and  his  heirs  from  the  farm 
of  the  manor  of  Falwesley,  40/.  yearly  from  the  farm  of  the  town  of 
Kyngesthorpe  or  Thorpe,  20/.  yearly  from  the  farm  of  the  manor  of 
Kyngesdiff,  24/.  yearly  from  the  farm  of  the  manor  of  Gedyngton,  10/. 
yearly  from  the  farm  of  a  ward  rent  of  the  castle  of  Northampton 
from  the  fee  of  Chokes,  20/.  yearly  from  the  farm  of  the  manor,  town  or 
lordship  of  Briggestoke  or  Bryxstoke,  12/.  yearly  from  the  farm  of  the 
manor  of  Pourestoke  at  the  hands  of  John  Wroxhale  and  his  heirs,  20/. 
yearly  from  the  fee  farm  of  Dorchester  (Dors')  at  the  hands  of  the  burgesses 
of  the  town  of  Dorchester  (Dors')  and  15/.  yearly  from  the  hundred  of 
Calne  and  a  miU  there  at  the  hands  of  William  la  Zouche  of  Totneys, 
knight,  and  his  heirs.  By  K. 

Membrane  17. 

March  11.        Grant  to  John  Donne,  one  of  the  esquires  of  the  body,  and  Elizabeth  his 
WestnuDster.  wife  and  his  heirs  and  assigns,  foF  his  good  service  to  the  king's  father 


EDWARD  IV.— Pabt  I.  431 


1465.  Metiihrane  17 — cont, 

Richard,  late  duke  of  York,  in  England,  France  and  Ireland,  and  against 
Henry  VI.  and  Jasper,  earl  of  Pembroke,  James,  earl  of  Wiltshire,  and 
other  rebels,  of  the  castle,  town,  manor  and  lordship  of  Telagham  in  South 
Wales  and  all  lands,  rents,  reveraions,  services  and  possessions  in  Telagham 
with  members  and  appurtenances  in  South  Wales  and  the  marches  late  of 
James,  late  earl  of  Wiltshire,  and  in  the  king's  hands  by  reason  of  an  act  of 
forfeiture  in  Parliament  at  Westminster,  4  November,  1  Edward  lY.  with  all 
royal  rights,  franchises,  liberties,  courts,  commodities,  jurisdictions,  leets, 
views  of  frank-pledge,  cantreds,  commotes,  hundreds,  fairs,  markets,  parks, 
stews,  knights'  fees,  services,  rents,  advowsons,  wreck  of  sea  and  all  other 
forfeitures  and  profits  ;  grant  to  him  and  his  heirs  and  assigns  of  the  manor 
of  Rusheton  called  '  Westmaner '  with  the  advowson  of  the  church  of  the 
parish  and  a  yearly  rent  of  2$.  or  a  sparrow-hawk  from  the  manor  of 
Russheton  called  '  Elyngham  is  maner,'  and  a  messuage,  ten  cottages,  a 
virgate  and  a  half  and  6  roods  of  land,  11  acres  of  meadow,  3  acres  of 
pasture,  40  acres  of  wood  and  a  water-mill  in  Aldewyncle,  co.  Northampton, 
three  messuages,  two  cottages,  four  virgates  of  land,  8  acres  of  meadow  and  7/. 
of  free  rent  yearly  in  Ryngstede,  co.  Northampton,  six  messuages,  five  cottages 
eight  virgates  of  land,  26  acres  of  meadow,  eight  crofts  and  21^.  free  rent 
yearly  in  Stanwigge,  co.  Northampton,  a  messuage,  100  acres  of  land,  16 
acres  of  meadow  and  6  acres  of  pasture  in  Knoston,  co.  Noiithampton,  3  acres 
of  meadow  and  33«.  4sd.  free  rent  yearly  in  Earl's  Barton,  co.  Northampton, 
two  messuages,  nine  virgates  of  land,  16  acres  of  meadow  and  3dt.  4</.  free  rent 
yearly  in  Ekton,  co.  Northampton,  eight  messuages,  eighteen  virgates  of 
land,  20  acres  of  meadow  and  Ss,  and  one  pound  of  cumin  of  free  rent 
yearly  in  Church  Brampton,  co.  Northampton,  26«.  8</.  of  free  rent  yearly  in 
Hangeynghoughton,  co.  Northampton,  and  the  manor  of  Great  Houghton, 
CO.  Northampton,  and  all  lands,  rents,  reversions,  services  and  possessions 
in  Russheton,  Aldewynde,  Ryngestede,  Stanwigge,  Knoston,  Earl's  Barton, 
Ekton,  Church  Brampton,  Hangynghoughton  and  Great  Houghton,  late  of 
Thomas  Tresham  and  in  the  king's  hands  by  reason  of  the  said  act,  and 
the  reversion  of  the  site  of  the  manor  of  Great  Houghton,  five  virgates  of 
land  and  20  acres  of  meadow  in  Great  Houghton,  seven  messuages,  ten 
cottages,  sixteen  virgates  of  land,  18  acres  of  meadow  and  3/.  of  free  rent 
yearly  In  Rothewel^  co.  Northampton,  and  four  messuages,  three  cottages, 
seventeen  virgates  of  land,  20  acres  of  meadow  and  22$,  of  free  rent 
yearly  in  Hanyngton,  co.  Northampton,  on  the  death  of  Isabel  the  wife 
of  William  Pecche,  knight,  who  holds  the  same  in  dower,  belonging  to 
the  king  by  the  forfeiture  of  the  said  Thomas,  with  knights'  fees, 
advowsons,  wards,  marriages,  reliefs,  escheats,  waifs,  strays,  chattels  of 
felons  and  fugitives,  courts  leet,  views  of  fnvnk-pledge,  parks,  warrens, 
waters,  fisheries,  meadows,  feedings,  pastures,  franchises,  liberties,  customs 
and  all  other  profits,  to  hold  by  fealty,  with  all  issues  from  4  March, 
1  Edward  IV. ;  and  licence  for  him  to  enfeoff  Greorge,  bishop  of  Exeter, 
Richard  Wydevile,  knight,  lord  of  Ryvers,  William  de  Hastyuges,  knight, 
lord  of  Hastynges,  William  de  Herbert,  knight,  lord  of  Herbert,  Thomas 
Burgh,  knight,  Ralph  Hastynges,  esquire,  John  Zouche,  Henry  Grene,  John 
Say  and  Richard  Sapcote,  esquires,  of  the  aforesaid  premises  late  of  Tliomas 
Tresham.  By  K.  and  for  6^ .  %d.  paid  in  the  hanaper. 

March  18.  Grant  in  frank  almoin  to  Thomas  Buxhale,  one  of  the  king's  chaplains, 
Westmiiister.  master  of  the  collegiate  church  of  Fodrynghey,  co.  Northampton,  and  the 
fellows  of  the  same  college  of  the  manor  or  aHen  priory  of  Charleton,  co. 
Wilts,  with  advowsons  and  all  possessions  spiritual  and  temporal,  ^m 
Michaelmas  last,  in  augmentation  of  their  sustenanoe,  that  the  master,  chap- 
lains and  choristers  may  pray  for  the  good  estate  of  the  king  and  for  his  soul 
after  death  and  the  sonb  of  his  father  Richard,  late  duke  of  York,  true  heir 
of  the  kingdoms  of  England  and  France  and  the  lordship  of  Ireland,  and  his 
brothers  and  sisters.  By  E. 


432  CALENDAR  OF  PATENT  ROLLS. 


1465.  Membrane  17 — cont. 

April  20.  Appointment,  during  pleasure,  of  William  Knyvet  'as  controller  of  the 
Westminster,  great  and  petty  custom,  the  subsidy  of  woolts,  hides  and  wool-fells  and  the 
subsidy  of  "the  Ss.  in  the  tun  and  the  I2d.  in  the  pound  in  the  port  of  Ipswich 
and  ports  and  places  adjacent,  receiving  the  accustomed  fees,  provided  that 
he  execute  the  office  in  pei*son,  withj  the  custody  of  one  part  of  the  coket 
seal.  By  bill  of  the  treasorer. 

The  like  of  the  following  in  the  ports  and  places  named : — 
May  21.  Philip  Morgan  in  the  port  of  Chichester  and  ports  and  places  adjacent. 

Westminster.  By  bill  of  the  treasurer. 

May  20.  Roger  Huls  in  the  port  of  Pole  and  ports  and  places  adjacent. 

Westminster.  By  bill  of  the  treasurer. 

March  11.        Appointment,  during  pleasure,  of  Thomas  Neve  as   surveyor  of  the 

Westminster,  scrutiny  in  the  port  of  Yermouth  and  ports  and  places  adjacent,  receiving 

the  accustomed  fees.  By  bill  of  the  treasurer. 

The  like  of  the  following  in  the  following  ports ;  [Names  omitted.] 

March  26.        The  like  of  Richard  Forster  as  gauger  in  the  port  of  Lynne  and  ports  and 
Westminster,  places  adjacent,  receiving  the  accustomed  fees.  By  bill  of  the  treasurer. 


Mbmbranb  16. 

March  12.  Mandate  to  the  constable  of  the  king's  castle  of  St.  Briavel  or  his 
Westminster,  lieutenant  that,  as  it  appears  by  an  inquisition  which  Henry  III.  caused  to 
be  made  by  Robert  Walraund  and  Nicholas  Handlowe  that  the  men  of  the 
king's  demesne  of  Redleigh  always  used  to  have  their  estovers  of  dead  wood 
and  dry,  their  pigs  quit  of  pannage  and  their  beasts  quit  of  herbage  in  the 
forest  of  Dene  until  the  last  eyre  of  Robert  Passelewe,  sometime  justice  of 
the  forest  of  the  said  king,  and  he  in  that  eyre  took  them  into  the  king's 
hands  because  they  held  them  by  no  warrant,  and  the  present  king,  upon  fine 
made  by  them,  has  restored  the  said  estovers  to  them,  he  shall  permit  them 
to  have  them.  For  13«.  4cf.  paid  in  the  hanaper. 

March  20.  Grant  for  life  to  William  Harington,  esquire,  of  the  herbage  of  all  the 
Westminster,  enclosures  of  Quynfeli  otherwise  called  the  parks  of  Quynfell,  co.  Westmore- 
land, of  the  yearly  value  of  12/.  sometime  of  John,  late  lord  of  Clifford,  a 
rebel,  and  in  the  king's  hands  by  reason  of  an  act  in  Parliament  at  West- 
minster, 4  November,  1  Edward  lY.,  and  aU  issues  of  the  said  herbage  from 
that  date.  By  p.s. 

March  27.        Grant  for  life  to  James,  earl  of  Douglas,  of  310/.  yearly,  viz.  60/.  from 

Westminster.  Michaelmas,  1  Edward  IV.  from  the  customs  and  subsidies  of  wools,  hides 

and  wool-fells  in  the  port  of  London,  100/.  from  Michaelmas  last  from  the 

customs   and  subsidies  in  the  port  of   Southampton,  60/.    from  Easter, 

2  Edward  IV.  from  the  like  in  the  port  of  Boston,  40/.  from  Michaelmas, 

3  Edward  IV.  from  the  like  in  the  port  of  Ipswich,  30/.  firom  Michaelmas, 
2  Edward  FV.  from  the  like  in  the  port  of  Lenne  and  20/.  from  the  same  date 
from  the  like  in  the  port  of  Pole ;  in  lieu  of  like  sums  granted  to  him  by 
letters  patent  dated  14  February,  1  Edward  IV.  surrendered  and  cancelled 
so  far  as  concerns  those  sums.  By  p.8. 

March  28.  Grant,  during  good  behaviour,  to  the  king's  servant  William  Rous,  to 
Westminster,  whom  on  5  July,  1  Edward  IV.  the  king  granted  the  o£Bice  of  one  of  the 
clerks  of  the  crown  of  Chancery  during  good  behaviour  with  a  fee  of  20/. 
yearly  from  the  issues  of  the  hanaper  and  a  livery  yearly  at  the  hands  of  the 
keeper  of  the  great  wardrobe,  and  who  has  occupied  the  said  office  since  that 
date,  of  the  said  fee  of  20/.  yearly  from  Michaelmas,  1  Edward  IV.  from  the 
issues  of  the  hanaper  as  GK3offrey  Mart}ii,  clerk  of  the  crown  of  Chancery  of 


o  EDWARD  IV.— Part  I.  433 


1465.  Membrane  16 — cont. 

Edward  III.  or  James  Billyngford,  chief  clerk  of  the  crown  of  Chanoerj  of 
Bichard  11.  received  it.  By  K. 

March  19.  Grant  in  frank  almoin  to  Bichard,  the  abbot,  and  the  convent  of  the 
Weitinintter.  Benedictine  monastery  of  Evesham,  co.  Worcester,  in  the  diocese  of 
Worcester,  of  the  right  of  patronage  and  the  advowson  of  the  abbey 
of  Alcester,  co.  Warwick,  in  the  same  diocese  and  of  the  same  order,  which 
is  of  the  king's  patronage  by  reason  of  the  duchy  of  Lancaster  and  by  the 
neglect  of  divers  abbots  has  come  to  dissolution  so  that  for  a  long  time 
the  abbot  alone  has  remained  there,  that  they  may  unite  the  abbey  to  the 
monastery  of  Evesham.  By  K.  and  for  40  marks  paid  in  the  hanaper. 

[MonasHcony  vol.  iv.  p.  180.] 

MSMBRANB  15. 

April  10.         Presentation    of   John    Scotte,    chaplain,   to    the    parish    church    of 
Westminfter.  Bnkyngham,  in  the  diocese  of  Lincoln,  void  by  the  resignation  of  John 
•   Draper,  last  parson. 

April  5.         General  pardon  to  William  Calihorne  late  of  Holandswayne,  co.  York 

Wettminstor.  <  laborer,'  alias  late  of  Helay,  co.  York,  *  yoman,'  of  all  offences  committed 

by  him  before  30  March.  By  p.s. 

The  like  to  John  Galthome   late  of  Helay   by  Sylkeston,  co.   York, 
*  laborer,'  alias  *  yoman.' 

The  like  to  Bichard  Calthorne  late  of  Holanswayne,  co.  York,  *  yoman,' 
aliiMs  late  of  Helay  by  Sylkeston,  co.  York. 

The  like  to  Agnes  Calthorne  late  of  Helay,  co.  York,  *  ser vaunt.' 

March  6.         The  like  to  John  Brerage  late  of  Southam,  co.  Gloucester, '  yoman,'  of 
WeMminster.  all  offences  committed  by  him  before  12  February.  By  p.s. 

March  6.         The  like  to  John  Pavy  late  of  Wynchecombe,  eo.  Gloucester,  *  draper.' 
Wettminiter.  By  p.s. 

April  16.         Grant  for  12  years,  to  William  Hastinges,  knight,  of  the  offices  of  master 

Weitminfter.  and  worker  of  the  king's  mints  and  keeper  of  the  king's  exchange  witliin 

the  Tower  of  London,   the  realm  of  England  and  the  town  of  Calais, 

according  to  the  form  of  an  indenture  made  between  him  and  the  king, 

receiving  the  accustomed  fees.  By  K. 

April  19.        Grant  for  life  to  the  king's  servant  Thomas  Gryme,  yeoman  of  the 
Weitminttor.  king's  jewels,  of  the  office  of  the  custody  of  the  king's  manor,  place  and 
garden  of  Eltliam,  void  by  the  death  of  John  Godfrey,  with  the  accustomed 
fees  from  the  issues  of  the  king's  lordship  there  and  all  other  profits. 

By  p.s. 

April  19.        The  like*  to  the  king's  servant  Bichard  Forster,  yeoman  of  the  butlery  of 

Westminiter.  the  household,  of  the  office  of  the  bailiwick  of  the  hundred  of  Godlaxton,  co. 

Leicester,  and  the  fees  and  profits  from  the  eaid  hundred,  as  John  Hoby, 

Bobert  Bonsergeaunte  and  Bichard  Baundes  or  anyone  else  had  them, 

without  rendering  any  account.  By  p.s. 

April  22.  Bevocation  of  the  protection  with  clause  volumus,  for  one  year,  granted 
WeitnUiitter.  5  Mai*ch  by  letters  patent  to  Philip  Nele  of  London,  '  gentilman,' a/ta« 
'pulter,'  alias  *  yoman,'  going  on  the  king's  service  in  the  company  of  John 
Wode,  esquire,  victualler  of  the  town  and  castle  of  Calais  and  the  marches  of 
the  same  in  the  parts  of  Picardy,  on  the  safe-custody,  defence  and  victualling 
of  the  same,  on  certificate  of  John  Tate  and  John  Stone,  sheriffs  of  London, 
that  he  delays  in  London. 

April  22.        Grant  for  life  to  the  king's  consort  Elizabeth,  queen  of  England,  of  the 
Weftminittr.  king's  lordship  and  manor  of  Grenewiche  with  the  tower  of  Grenewiche 

M     (I6»U.  B    E 


434  CALENDAR  OF  PATENT  ROLLS. 


1465.  Membrane  15 — cont, 

and  the  parks  there  and  all  meadows,  pastures,  woods,  wards,  marriagesy 
escheats,  waifs,  strays,  courts  leet  and  all  other  lands,  rents  and  services 
belonging  to  the  said  manor  and  lordship  in  the  town  of  Grenewyche  or 
elsewhere  within  the  county  of  Kent  and  all  other  lands,  rents  and  services 
in  the  same  county  lately  belonging  to  Humphrey,  late  duke  of  G-loucester, 
to  hold  the  same  in  as  ample  form  as  the  said  duke  held  them ;  and  a 
tenement  called  '  Ormondes  Place '  with  all  solers,  cellars,  edifices,  gardens 
and  other  appurtenances  in  the  parish  of  Holy  Trinity,  Knyghtriderstrete, 
London.  By  K. 

April  22.  Grani  to  the  king's  servitor  James  Hyett  and  the  heirs  male  of  his  body 
Westminster,  of  the  manor  of  Frytteswell,  co.  Oxford,  in  the  king's  hands  by  reason  of  an 
act  of  forfeiture  by  authority  of  Parliament  at  Westminster,  4  November, 
1  Edward  IV,  against  James,  latQ  earl  of  Wiltshire,  and  the  manor  or  lordship 
of  Edyngworth  lying  in  le  mersshe  called  *  Brentmerssh,'  co.  Somerset,  four 
messuages,  a  toft  and  60  acres  of  land  in  Wellis  and  Dulcote,  co.  Somerset, 
and  the  knights'  fees,  franchises,  liberties  and  privileges  pertaining  to  the 
said  manor  or  lordship,  in  the  king's  hands  by  reason  of  an  act  of  forfeiture 
by  authority  of  Parliament  aforesaid  against  John  Botyler, '  *  gentilman.' 
not  exceeding  the  yearly  value  of  20/.,  and  all  issues  of  the  above  from  the 
said  4  November.  By  p.s. 

April  26.  Grant  to  the  king's  servant  Walter  Rufibrd  and  the  heirs  male  of  his 
Westminster,  body  of  a  moiety  of  the  manor  or  lordship  of  Homcastell  or  Overhamme,  co. 
Worcester,  late  of  Thomas  Cornewayll,  esquire,  attainted  of  high  treason  by 
an  act  in  Parliament  at  Westminster,  4  November,  1  Edward  IV.  and  now 
in  the  king's  hands,  not  exceeding  the  value  of  10  marks  yearly,  and  the 
fourth  part  of  the  said  manor  or  lordship  late  of  William  Vaux,  knight^ 
attainted  of  high  treason  as  above,  and  now  in  the  king's  hands,  not  exc^- 
ing  the  yearly  value  of  5  marks,  to  hold  with  all  liberties,  franchises,  courts 
leet,  views  of  frank-pledge  and  other  appurtenances  by  the  service  of  ais 
many  knights'  fees  and  other  services  as  they  were  held  by  before  4  March, 
1  Edward  IV.  with  all  issues  from  that  date.  By  p.8. 

April  10.  Grant  to  the  king's  kinsman  John,  earl  of  Worcester,  in  repa}'ment  of 
Westminster.  100/.  in  which  the  king  is  indebted  to  him,  of  100/.  from  the  second  moiety 
of  the  tenth  granted  to  the  king  by  the  clergy  of  the  province  of  Canterbury 
in  the  second  year  of  the  reign,  viz.  from  all  sums  of  money  due  to  the  king 
by  the  abbot  and  convent  of  Hyde  by  Winchester,  in  the  diocese  of 
Winchester,  for  the  said  moiety  for  their  spiritualities  and  temporalities  and 
from  the  issues  from  the  temporalities  of  the  abbey  at  the  time  of  its  last 
voidance  by  the  death  of  Thomas,  late  abbot,  and  from  the  residue  of  the 
said  moiety,  at  the  hands  of  the  said  abbot  and  the  collectors  of  the  said 
moiety.  By  p,s. 

Membrane  14. 

March  19.  Pardon  to  the  dean  and  chapter  of  the  cathedral  church  of  York,  the 
Westminster,  keeper  of  the  spirituality  of  the  archbishopric  of  York,  John  Pakenham, 
keeper  of  the  said  spirituality,  and  Robert  Wardrop  of  all  escapes,  until  26 
January  last,  in  the  voidance  of  the  see,  of  prisoners  attainted  of  felony  and 
committed  to  the  custody  of  William,  late  archbishop  of  York,  as  ordinary, 
according  to  law  and  the  custom  of  the  realm.  By  K. 

April  11.  Grant  to  the  king's  kinsman  Richard  Neville,  earl  of  Warwick,  and  the 
Westminster,  heirs  of  his  body  of  the  castle,  honour,  manor  and  lordship  of  Coker- 
mouthe  with  members  and  appurtenances,  a  third  part  of  the  castle  or 
manor  of  Egremond,  the  fishery  of  Blaymyre  in  the  water  of  Eske  and  two 
tenements  in  the  city  of  Carlisle,  co.  Cumberland,  the  castles,  manors  and 
lordships  of  Pendragon,  Burgh,  Appilby,  Burgham,  Mallerstange  and 
Whinfell,  the  manor  and  lordship  of  Kerkeby  Stephen  and  the  town  of 


5  EDWARD  IV.— Part  I.  436 


1465.  Membrane  \4^^cont, 

Winton  with  their  members,  co.  Westmoreland,  the  office  of  sheriff  of  the 
same  county,  the  manors  and  lordships  of  Topcliff,  Sterboten,  Langsterueth, 
Cletop,  Bukden,  Preston,  Setell  and  Gegleswike  with  their  members,  co. 
York,  the  manor  and  lordship  of  Newportpajnell  with  its  members,  co. 
Buckingham,  and  a  capital  messuage,  five  smaller  messuages  and  a  shop 
in  the  parish  of  St.  Stephen,  Wallebroke,  London,  sometime  of  Robert 
Whittingham,  knight,  with  knights'  fees,  advowsons  and  services  of  free 
•  tenants,  belonging  to  the  king  by  virtue  of  an  act  in  Parliament  at  West- 
minster, 4  November,  4  Edward  IV.  to  hold  the  same  by  the  services 
anciently  belonging  to  the  kings  of  England,  rendering  to  the  king  100/. 
yearly  from  the  castle,  honour  and  lonlship  of  Cokermouth,  so  long  as 
Richard  Salkeld,  esquire,  or  any  male  heir  of  his  body  survices.  By  p.s. 

April  22.  Grant  for  life  to  John  Wath,  esquire,  of  the  manor  of  Sutton  on  Trent, 
Westminster,  co.  Nottingham,  with  its  members  and  200  acres  of  arable  land,  20  acres  of 
meadow,  20  acres  of  wood  and  20«.  rent  in  the  town  of  Sutton,  late  of 
Thomas  Roos,  knight,  late  lord  of  Roos,  attainted  of  high  treason  by  virtue 
of  an  act  in  Parliament  at  Westminster,  4  November,  I  Edward  IV.  and 
in  the  king's  hands  by  his  forfeiture  and  by  virtue  of  that  act,  to  hold  with 
knight's  fees,  advowsons,  wards,  reliefs,  escheats,  homages,  rents,  woods  and 
suits  of  courts  in  Sutton  aforesaid  by  the  service  of  as  many  knight's  fees 
and  other  services  as  they  were  held  by  before  4  March,  I  Edward  IV.  and 
release  to  him  of  all  issues  from  that  date.  By  p.s. 

April  20.        Grant  for  life  to  the  king's  servant  Thomas  Seintliger  by  mainprise  of 
Wefftminster.  Hugh    Hanford  of  London,  *  gentilman,'    and   John    Wharf  of  London, 

*  gentilman,'  of  the  king's  manor  of  Kenyng^n,  co.  Surrey^  with  a  bam 
{orio)  and  other  easements  without '  le  Pale '  there,  a  rabbit-warren  and  all 
rents,  lands,  meadows,  pastures,  perquisites  and  other  profits,  rendering  to 
the  king  rearly  20  marks  as  Ralph  Legh  formerly  gave  for  the  custody  of 
the  same.  By  pjs. 

April  3.  Grant  to  Thomas  Dalamare,  esquire,  in  repayment  of  84/.  in  which  the  king 

WeAtminster.  is  indebted  to  him  for  divers  horses,  iron  saddles  and  shields  for  toumamci :  •« 
bought  by  him  for  the  king's  use  and  delivered  to  Thomas  de  Burgh, 
knight,  master  of  the  horse,  of  12/.  18«.  bd.  yearly  from  Roger  Beller  from 
the  fee  farm  of  the  hundred  of  Fi^fimiond,  co.  Leicester,  at  the  hands  of  the 
said  Roger  or  the  sheriff  of  Warwick  and  Leicester,  20/.  yearly  from  the 
farm  of  the  city  of  Winchester  at  the  hands  of  the  citizens  or  the  sheriff  of 
the'county  of  Southampton,  13/.  Qs,  Sd.  yearly  from  the  &nn  of  the  town  of 
Oxford  at  the  hands  of  the  burgesses  or  bailiffs  or  the  sheriff  of  the  county, 
17/.  lOs.  yearly  from  John  Austyn  from  the  fee  farm  of  the  lordship  or  manor 
of  8t.  Margaret  Stretton  and  the  lordship  of  Middleton  Brymmesfeld,  co. 
Wilii*,  and  11/.  10^.  yearly  from  John  Mat  he  we  from  the  fee  farm  of  the 
manor  of  Benham  Lovel  and  two  messuages,  two  camcates  of  land,  40 
acres  of  meadow  and  20  acres  of  wood  in  Holbenham  and  Westbroke,  co. 
Berks,  from  Michaelmas  last  until  he  be  fully  satisfied.  By  p.s. 

April  6.  Grant  to  John,  duke  of  Suffolk,  and  Elizabeth  his  wife,  the  king's  sister, 

Westminster,  of  100  marks  yearly  from  Easter  last  out  of  the  issues  of  the  king's  lordship 

and   honour  of  Walyngford  with  its  members,  until  the  king  recompenoe 

them  with  manors  and  knds  to  that  value.  By  p.s. 

March  30.       Pardon  to  John  Norrevs,  vicar  of  the  parish  church  of  All   Saints, 
WestmiDBter.   Southlenne,  co.  Norfolk,  of  all  offences,  misprisions,  contempts  and  forfei- 
tures committed  by  him,  all  detentions  of  things  and  all  debts,  demands  and 
accounts  due  to  the  king  for  any  treasure,  nobles  of  gold,  or  money  supposed 
to  have  been  found  by  Geoffrey  Norreys  alias  Bilney  late  of  Westbilney, 

*  yoman,'  deceased,  or  by  him  and  to  have  come  to  his  hands.  By  K. 

Mai'ch  27.       General  pardon  to  John  White  late  of  London,  <  yoman/  alias  late  of 
Westminster.  Hamersmyth  in  the  parish  of  Fulham,  co.  Middlesex.  By  p,s. 

■  B  2 


436  CALENDAR  OF  PATENT  ROLLS. 


1465.  Membrane  14 — cont. 

April  2.  Grant  to  Joan  late  the  wife  of  John  Clay,  knight,  John  Clay  his  son 
^estminBter.  and  heir  and  Robert  Grene,  esquire,  executors  of  the  will  of  the  said 
John  Clay,  knight,  of  all  iseues,  profits  and  revenues  before  1  October 
last  from  all  manors,  lands,  rents,  services,  reversions,  farms  and  possessions 
which  Thomas  Ormond,  esquire,  had  in  the  counties  of  Essex  and 
Cambridge,  in  the  king's  hands  by  his  forfeiture,  without  rendering  any 
account.  By  p.s. 

May  2.  Pardon  to  John  Fulwode  of  the  king's  lordship  of  Hatfeld,  co.  Tork,  for 

Westminster,  the  death  of  John  Mygeley,  who  lay  in  wait  for  him  at  divers  times  and 

whom  he  killed  in  self-defence.  By  p.s. 

Membrane  13. 

March  8.         Signification  to  W.  bishop  of  Winchester  of  the  royal  assent  to  the 
WeBtroinster.  election  of  Thomas  Angewyn,  late  monk  of  the  monastery  of  Chertsey,  as 
abbot  of  that  place. 

April  2.  Revocation  of  the  protection  with  clause  volumus,  for  one  year,  lately 

Westminster,  granted  by  letters  patent  to  John  Tayllour  of  Holkham,  co.  Norfolk, 
*  husbondman,'  going  on  the  king's  service  in  the  company  of  John  Wode, 
esquire,  victualler  of  the  castle  and  town  of  Calais  and  the  marches  thereof 
in  the  parts  of  Picardy  on  the  safe  custody,  defence  and  victualling  of  the 
same,  because  he  delays  at  Holkham,  as  appears  by  certificate  of  the  sheriff 
of  Norfolk. 

April  2.  Gk'ant  to  the  prior  and  convent  of  Beau  vale  of  24  marks  yearly  from  31 

Westminster.  March,  3  fa^dward  IV.  from  the  fee  farm  and  increment  of  the  town  of 
Derby  at  the  hands  of  the  men  or  bailiffs  of  the  town  or  the  sheriff  of  the 
county  or  from  the  issues  of  the  bounties  of  Nottingham  and  Derby,  in 
lieu  of  a  like  grant  to  them  from  the  customs  in  the  port  of  Kyngecton  on 
Hull  by  letters  patent  dated  25  January,  1  Edward  lY,  sun*endered  and 
cancelled  so  far  as  concerns  the  said  24  marks,  because  they  have  received 
nothing  since  the  said  31  March.  By  p.s. 

Mandate  in  pursuance  to  the  men  or  bailiffs  of  the  town  of  Derby  and 
the  sheriff  of  the  counties  of  Nottingham  and  Derby. 

March  20.  Whereas  on  1  July,  2  Edward  lY.  John  Ingoldesby  lodged  an  informa- 
Westminster.  lion  before  the  barons  of  the  Exchequer  that  although  John  Morton,  late 
rector  of  the  church  of  Blokesworth,  co.  Dorset,  and  archdeacon  of 
Norwich,  was  attainted  of  high  treason  by  authority  of  Parliament  in  the 
first  year  of  the  reign  and  all  the  goods  and  lands  that  belonged  to  him 
on  4  March,  1  Edward  IV.  were  forfeited  to  the  king,  nevertheless  Robert 
Ippeswell,  clerk,  o£Bicial  of  Walter,  bishop  of  Norwich,  in  the  archdeaconry 
of  Norwich  received  all  the  issues  of  the  archdeaconry  of  Norwich  from  the 
said  4  March  until  the  said  1  July  to  the  sum  of  80/.  at  the  city  of 
Norwich  and  other  places ;  and  another  information  was  lodged  before  the 
said  barons  on  20  October,  4  Edward  IV.  by  Henry  Sotehill  that  the  said 
John  Morton  was  archdeacon  of  Norwich  on  the  said  4  March  and  until 
the  said  20  October,  and  that  the  said  issues  are  of  the  yearly  value  of  160 
marks,  and  that  the  baid  Kobert  IppeswcU  received  them,  viz.  640  marks, 
from  the  said  4  March  until  the  said  20  October,  at  the  city  of  Norwich ; 
and  by  letters  patent  dated  27  September,  4  Edward  IV.  Ihe  king  granted 
the  said  issues  to  John,  the  prior,  and  the  convent  of  the  cathedral  churclji 
of  the  Blessed  Trinity,  Norwich,  and  by  writ  directed  the  said  Robert 
Ippeswell  to  receive  them  and  deliver  them  to  the  prior  and  convent ;  the 
king  hereby  pardons  to  the  said  Robert  Ippeswell  all  actions  and  demands 
against  him  in  these  matters.  By  K. 

April  4.  Gi*ant,  during  good  behaviour,  to  Robert  Cou>in  of  the  oflice  of  keeper 

Westminster,  of  the  king's  great  wardrobe,  with  the  accustomed  fees.  By  p.s. 


5  EDWARD  IV.—Pabt  I.  437 


1465.  Membrane  13 — cont. 

April  4.  The  like  to  William  Mysterton  of  the  office  or  occupation  of  clerk  io  the 

Westminster,  king's  great  wardrobe,  receiving  the  accustomed  fees  and  vestures  from  all 

issues  received  for  the  said  wardrobe  and  the  office  of  the  same  at  the 

hands  of  the  keeper  of  the  wardrobe,  in  lieu  of  a  like  grant  of  the  same  to 

Robert  Cousyn  by  letters  patent  dated  4  August,  1  Edward  IV,  surrendered. 

By  p.8. 

April  6.  Grant  to  John,  duke  of  Suffolk,  and  Elizabeth  his  wife,  the.  king's  sister, 

Westminster,   of  100  marko  yearly  from  Easter  last  from  the  issues  of  the  king's  lordship 

and  honour  of  Walyngford  with  its  members,  until  the  king  recompense 

them  with  manors  and  lands  to  that  value.  By  p.s. 

Vacated  because  below, 

March  29.        Grant '  for  life  to  Geoffrey  Lewy$<,  chaplain,  of  a  yearly  pension  of  10 

Westminster,  marks  from  the  issues  of  the  king'6  mills  of  Disserlhe  and  Pentre,  co. 

Flint,  in  North  Wales,  granted  in  mortmain  to  the  chapel  of  St.  Wenefride 

at  Holywell,  co.  Flint,  by  Bichard  II.  that  divine  service  may  be  held  there 

daily  in  honour  of  the  saint.  By  p.s.  [1620.] 

April  6.  Licence,  for  ^  mark  paid  in  the  hanaper,  for  Ralph  Hasty nges,  esquire, 

Westminster,  to  enfeoff  George,  bishop  of  Exeter,  Edward  Gower,  esquire,  and  William 
Staveley  of  100  acres  of  land  and  10  acres  of  meadow  in  Stonton  Barrey, 
CO.  Buckingham,  40  acres  of  land  and  8  acres  ot  meadow  in  Bradwell,  co. 
Buckingham,  and  two  tenements  and  three  virgates  of  land  in  Wen- 
delyngburgh,  co.  Northampton,  late  of  Thomas  Tresham,  knight,  held  in 
chief. 


Mbmbranb  12. 

March  30.        Grant  for  life  to  Nicholas  Baker  of  Bristol  of  the  manor  of  Belton,  co. 

Westminster.  Somerset,  late  of  James,  earl  of  Wiltshire,  and  in  the  king's  hands  by  his 
forfeiture,  with  rents,  courts,  views  of  frank-pledge  and  all  other  appurte- 
nances  to  the  value  of  20  marks  yearly,  provided  that  he  answer  at  the 
Exchequer  for  any  surplus.  '  By  p.s. 

May  10.  Appointment  of  the  king's  brother  George,  duke  of  Clarence,  as  his 

Westminster,  lieutenant  in  Ireland  for  20  years,  with  power  to  appoint  a  deputy  under 
him  to  keep  and  govern  the  land  in  his  absence,  to  summon  Parliaments 
and  councils,  and  make  statutes  and  ordinances,  to  keep  the  king's  peace 
and  laws  and  punish  offenders,  to  receive  rebels  into  the  king's  peace  or 
bring  them  to  justice,  to  pardon  for  treasons  and  other  offences,  to  receive 
fines  and  amercements,  to  grant  lands  of  rebels  and  the  king's  enemies  to 
suitable  persons  and  also  lands  of  Englishmen  which  have  been  deserted, 
provided  that  due  proclamation  be  made,  to  collect  and  levy  all  issues  due 
to  the  king  and  apply  them  to  the  defence  of  the  land  and  other  charges 
there,  to  grant  licences  for  alienation  in  mortmain,  appropriation  of  churches 
and  foundation  of  chantries  and  fraternities,  to  present  to  benefices  in  the 
king's  gift,  to  receive  fealties  and  renunciations  of  archbishops  and  bishops 
and  homages  of  tenants  and  to  restoi-e  temporalities,  to  appoint  and  remove 
the  chancellor,  treasurer,  justices,  barons  of  the  Exchequer,  keeper  of  the 
rolls  of  Chancery  and  other  officers  and  ministers,  to  make  purveyances 
for  his  household  and  for  the  soldiers,  to  grant  safe  conduety  to  take 
accounts  of  officers  and  ministers,  to  enquire  into  the  concealment  of 
forfeiteil  goods,  and  to  do  all  other  things  pertaining  to  his  office. 

By  p.s.  [1667.] 

April  4.  Grant  for  life  to  the  king's  servant  Thomas  Worley,  one  of  the  king's 

Westminster,   chapel,  of  a  tenement  or  brewhouse  commonly  called  '  le  Lambe '  in  ^Distaf 

Lane,  London,  which  Robert  Grey,  one  of  the  king's  minstrels,  deceased, 

lately  had  of  the  king's  gift.  By  p.s. 


438  CALENDAR  OF  PATENT  ROLLS. 


1465.  Membrane  12 — cont, 

April  3.  The  like  to  William  Helperbj  of  a  yearly  rent  of  10/.  I5s.  from  23  March 

Westminster,  last  from  the  fee  farm  of  the  town  of  Scardebnrgh  and  the  manor  of  Walde- 

grave  and  60  acres  of  land.  By  p.s.  [1637.] 

Membrane  11. 

March  24.  Whereas  the  mayor  and  society  of  the  merchants  of  the  staple  of  the 
Westminster,  town  of  Calais  have  lent  to  the  king  the  sum  of  11,728/.  19^.  2^d,  (»c), 
for  the  safe-custody  of  the  town  and  the  payment  of  the  wages  of  the 
captain  and  soldiers  of  the  town  and  castle  and  the  marches  there,  viz., 
3,756/.  lU.  lO^cf. '  delivered  to  the  hands  of  Walter  Blount,  knight,  late 
treasurer  of  Calais,  for  the  payment  of  the  wages  and  r^ards  of  tlie  captain 
and  soldiers,  6,872/.  7^.  -id,  delivered  to  him  for  the  same  cause,  and  1 ,000/. 
delivered  to  the  king's  hands,  which  sums  the  king  desires  shall  be  enrolled 
on  the  Pell  of  Memoranda  at  the  receipt  of  the  Exchequer  before  1  Decem- 
ber last,  and  the  king  is  bound  to  them  by  divers  taUies  lately  levied  at 
the  i*eceipt  of  the  Exchequer  in  the  sum  of  1,550/.  8^.  I0d,y  and  moreover 
562/.  5f .  5d.  remain  unpaid  to  them  out  of  1,000/.  lent  by  them  to  the  king, 
assigned  to  them  by  letters  patent  dated  17  August,  1  Edward  IV,  and 
they  have  surrendered  the  said  tallies  and  letters  patent ;  the  king  hereby 
grants  to  them,  in  repayment  of  the  said  sums,  amoanting  in  all  to  13,741/. 
13«.  4d.  (sicjy  that  they  or  their  factors  or  attorneys  may  ship  sacks  or  cJoves 
of  wools  and  wool-fells  in  any  ports  of  the  realm  to  the  said  town  of  Calais 
quit  of  customs  and  subsidies  without  finding  security  for  bringing  back 
into  the  realm  any  greuter  bullion,  mass  or  plate  of  gold  or  silver  than  luJf 
a  mai'k  of  nilver  for  each  sack  of  wool,  until  they  be  fully  satisfied. 

By  p.s. 

March  29.        Grant  for  life  to  Thomas  Vaghau,  one  of    the  yeomen  of    the  king's 
Westminster,  chamber,  for  his  good  service  to  the  king  and  his  father  Richard,  late  duke 
of  York,  of  a  parcel  of  land  called  '  Qerardeston  '  in  the  parish  of  Tremayn, 
CO.  Cardigan,  in  South  W^l^s,  with  all  issues  from  Michaelmas  last. 

By  p.s. 

May  16.  Presentation  of  Ralph  Shawe   to  the  parish  church  of  Harleton,  co. 

Westminster.  Cambridge,  in  the  diocese  of  Ely,  void  by  the  death  of  John  Abbot 

May  14.  Grant  for  life  to  John  de  la  Launde,  sometime  lord  de  la  Launde,  who 

Westminster,  for  his  true  faith  and  allegiance  to  the  crown  of  England  has  forsaken  his 
possessions  within  the  duchy  of  Aquitaine  and  is  now  fallen  into  so  great 
age  and  poverty  that  he  is  more  like  a  beggar  than  a  gentleman^  in  which 
wretchedness  he  is  likely  to  continue,  of  40  marks  yearly  from  8  March 
last  at  the  receipt  of  the  Exchequer.  By  p.s.  [1653]. 

May  17.  Pardon  to  Thomas  Parsure  of  Duresley,  co.  Gloucester,  *  fuller,'  of  his 

Westminster,  outlawry  in  Bristol  for  not  appearing  to  satisfy  the  king  of  his  ransom  for 
not  holding  John  Galgey  of  Bristol,  '  taillour,'  impeached  on  suspicion  of 
treason,  before  the  late  king  at  a  certain  day,  provided  that  he  satisfy  the 
king  ;  ho  having  surrendered  to  the  Marshalsea  prison,  as  John  Markham, 
knight,  chief  justice  of  the  King's  Bench,  has  certified. 

Membrane  10. 

March  23.  Grant  for  life  to  Humphrey  Stafford,  knight,  lord  Stafford  of  Southewik, 
Westminster,  of  the  ojffices  of  constable  and  keeper  of  the  castle  of  Brigge water,  co. 
Somerset,  and  steward  of  the  lordship  and  manor  of  Briggewater  on  the 
death  of  the  king*s  mother  Cicely,  duchess  of  York,  who  holds  the  said 
castle,  lordship  and  manor  for  life  and  by  letters  patent  dated  20  March 
has  granted  the  said  offices  to  him,  receiving  the  accustomed  fees  and  profits 
from  the  issues  of  the  said  lordship  or  manor ;  and  appointment  of  him  for 


5  EDWARD  IV.— Part  I.  439 


1465.  Membrane  10 — cont, 

life  as  keeper  of  the  king's  forest  or  park  of  Pederton  by  Briggewater, 
with  such  fees  and  profits  as  the  king's  father  Richard,  late  duke  of  York, 
had  for  the  said  custody,  with  full  power  to  appoint  and  remove  a  lieutenant 
ranger  and  all  foresters  on  foot.  By  K. 

March  27.  Grant  for  life  to  the  said  Humphrey  of  the  office  of  steward  of  the 
Wectminster.  borough  and  manor  of  Bradenynche,  or  Bradenyssh,  and  all  other  manors  and 
lands  in  the  county  of  Devon  in  the  king's  haqds  which  arc  parcel  of  the 
duchy  of  CornwaU  and  the  office  of  warden  of  the  stannaries  in  the  said 
county,  receiving  20/.  yearly  from  the  issues  of  the  said  borough  and 
manor  of  Bradenynche.  By  K. 

March  29.        Pardon  to  Peter  House,  esquii*e,  late  sheriff  of  the  counties  of  Bedford 
Weftminster.  and  Buckingham,  of  all  offences  committed  by  him  and  all  issues,  forfeit- 
ures, fines,  amei'cements,  reliefs  and  arreai'S  due  from  him  to  the  king,  and 
also  40/.  fi'om  the  profits  of  the  said  counties  belonging  to  the  king. 

ByK. 

March  21.       Grant  for  life  to  Edmund  Holte  of  the  office  of  the  custody  of  the  king's 
Westminster,   gaol  of  the  county  of  Nottingham,  with  the  accustomed  fees.  By  p.s. 

March  28.       Commission   to  the   king's   kinsmen   Richard,   earl    of   Warwick    and 

Westminster.   Salisbury,  great  chamberlain  of  England,  and  William  Hastynges,  knight, 

lord  of  Hastynges,  the  king's  chamberlain,  to  treat  with  the  king's  uncle 

James  Luxemburgh,  lord  of  Richebourg,  for  an  alliance  with  the  kin^s 

kinsman  Charles  of  Burgundy,  count  of  Charloys.     \Foedera,']  By  K. 

May  13.  Grant  for  life   to  William  Htaverton,  in  lieu  of  a  like  grant  to  him  by 

Westminster,  letters  patent,  dated  9  August,  1  Eld  ward  IV,  surrendered,  of  the  office  of 
the  custody  of  Cramburn  alias  the  bailiwick  of  Batelbailly  within  the  king's 
forest  of  Wyndesore  alias  the  office  of  one  of  the  king's  foresters  in  the  said 
forest  within  the  bailiwick  of  Bateilesbailly,  with  wages  of  J  d,  daily  from 
the  said  9  August  at  the  hands  of  the  constable  of  Windesore  castle  or  his 
lieutenant  with  such  fees  as  John  Deth  had  in  the  said  office  in  the  time  of 
Richard  II.  and  all  pannage,  trees  dead  or  blown  down,  and  all  herbage 
yearly  from  a  close  of  the  king's  lodge  within  the  said  bailiwick  commonly 
called  '  le  Loggecloce,'  provided  that  he  keep  the  enclosure  of  the  close 
competently.  By  K. 

May  14.  General  pardon  to  Ralph  Boteler  late  of  Winchelse,  co.  Sussex,  ^yoman,' 

Westminster,  of  all  offences  committed  by  bim  before  27  April  last  By  p.s. 

May  21.  Grant  to  John  Dynham,  esquire,  to  whom  the  king  is  indebted  in  the 

Westminster,  sum  of  50/.  and  also  in  the  sum  of  200/.,  of  which  latter  sum  the  king 
ordered  that  he  should  be  contented  from  the  revetiues  of  the  duchy  of 
Lancaster  at  the  hands  of  Nicholas  Sharpe,  receiver  general  of  the  duchy, 
but  of  which  ho  has  received  no  repayment,  that  he  may  retain  all  sums  of 
money  belonging  to  the  king  from  the  coinage  of  600  pieces  of  white  tin  of 
his  own  within  the  county  of  Cornwall,  in  full  satisfaction  of  the  said  250/. 

By  p.s. 

May  23.         Mandate  in  pursuance  to  the  receiver  general  of  Cornwall. 
Westminster. 


Mbmbranb  9. 

May  8.  Pardon  to   Roger    Pyerpount  late  of  Hardewyk  by   Southlenne,  co. 

Westminster.  Norfolk,  esquire,  of  his  outlawry  in  the  county  of  Norfolk  for  not  appearing 
before  the  justices  of  the  Bench  to  satisfy  the  king  for  having  denied  a 
writing  of  his  which  Edmund  Perys  produced  in  court  before  the  said 
justices  touching  a  debt  of  32*.  8</.,  he  having  surrendered  to  the  Plete 
prison,  as  Robert  Danby,  chief  justice  of  the  Bench,  has  certified. 


440  CALENDAR  OF  PATENT  ROLLS. 


1465.  Membrane  9 — cont. 

March  29.        Grant  for  Hie  to  the  king's  sister  Anne  of  60/.  yearly  from  Michaelmas 
Westminster,  last,  viz.   40/.  from  the  issues  of  the  county  of  Devon  and  20/.  from  the 
issues  of  the  counties  of  Cambridge  and  Huntingdon. 

Schedule, 

These  letters  were  vacated  by  surrender  and  cancelled  so  far  as  concerns 
the  said  20/.  on  14  August,  12  Edward  IV.  because  the  king  on  that  date 
granted  the  said  20/.  to  Thomas  Gray  by  other  letters  patent. 


Mbmbranb  9 — conL 

May  22.         Presentation  of  Thomas  Walton  to  the  parish  church  of  Henton,  in  the 
Westminster,  diocese  of  Salisbury,  void  by  the  death  of  David  Morley. 

April  20.        Grant  for  life  to  Richard  Berde,  esquire,  late  servant  of  the  scullery  of 
WMtminster.  the  household,  for  the  whole  time  that  the  king  has  taken  upon  himself  the 
government  of  the  realm,  who  has  had  no  regard,  of  10  marks  yearly  from 
Michaelmas  last  from  the  issues  of  the  counties  of  Cambridge  and  Hunting- 
don. By  p.8. 

May  17.  The  like  to  Thomas  Gray,  king's  esquire,  in  consideration  of  his  service  to 
Westminster,  the  king  in  war  and  elsewhere  and  his  loss  of  his  inheritance  in  the  town  of 
Berwike  and  the  places  adjacent  through  the  same  being  in  the  hands  of 
the  Scots,  of  a  yearly  rent  of  20/.  from  31  March  last  from  the  great  and 
petty  custom,  the  subsidies  of  wools,  hides  and  wool-fells  and  the  sub- 
sidies of  the  Ss,  in  the  tun  and  the  I2d,  in  the  pound  in  the  port  of 
Boston  and  ports  and  places  adjacent.  By  p.8. 

May  22.  Pardon  to  Thomas  Ayery  of  Fylonglay,  co.  Warwick,  *  husbondman,'  of 
Westminster,  his  outlawry  in  London  for  not  appearing  before  the  king  to  satisfy  him  of 
his  ransom  for  not  bringing  Richard  Blemell  of  London,  *  tymbermonger,* 
before  the  late  king  on  a  certain  day,  he  having  surrendered  to  the 
Marshalsea  prison,  as  John  Markham,  chief  justice  of  the  King's  Bench, 
has  certified. 

May  24.  Grant  for  life  to  William  Fowler,  son  of  the  king's  servant  Thomas 
Westminster.  Fowler,  for  the  good  service  of  the  latter,  of  the  manor  of  Preston, 
00.  Buckingham,  and  6  messuages,  200  acres  of  land,  50  acres  of  pasture, 
10  acres  of  meadow  and  20«.  rent  in  Preston  and  Coveley,  co. 
Buckingham,  late  of  Thomas,  late  lord  Roos,  and  in  the  king's  hands  by 
reason  of  his  forfeiture  and  by  virtue  of  an  act  in  Parliament  at  West- 
minster, 4  November,  1  Edward  lY.  with  knights'  fees,  courts,  views  of 
frank-pledge  and  all  profits  and  commodities,  to  hold  the  same  by  the 
accustomed  rents  and  services,  with  all  profits  from  4  March,  1  Edward  lY. 

ByK. 

April  20.  Grant  to  Richard  Middelton,  esquire,  and  Matilda  his  wife,  late  the  wife 
Westminster,  of  Thomas  Grene,  knight,  and  the  heirs  male  of  the  body  of  the  said  Richard 
of  the  manor  of  Great  Lyneford,  co.  Buckingham,  the  advowson  of  the  parish 
church  of  Great  Lyneford  and  a  messuage,  three  virgates  of  land,  three  acres 
of  meadow  and  four  acres  of  pasture  odled  ^  Lyneforthes '  in  the  town  of 
Lyneford  aforesaid,  in  the  king's  hands  by  reason  of  the  forteitare  of  James, 
late  earl  of  Wilts,  and  by  virtue  of  an  act  of  forfeiture  in  Parliament  at 
Westminster,  4  November,  1  Edward  lY.  and  a  messuage,  160  acres  of 
land,  16  acres  of  meadow  and  20  acres  of  pasture  in  Lyneford  aforesaid 
called  *  Walshes,'  in  the  king's  hands  by  reason  of  the  forfeiture  of  John 
Fortescu,  knight,  and  by  virtue  of  the  act  idPoresaid,  to  hold  by  the  ancient 
rents  and  services,  with  issues  from  4  March,  1  Edward  lY.  answering  to 
the  king  for  any  surplus  above  20/.  yearly.  By  p.s. 


5  EDWARD  IV.— Pakt  I.  441 


1465.  Membrane  9 — cant, 

Maj  27.  Pardon  to  the  king's  servant  Thomas  Herbert,  one  of  the  esquires  of  the 
WestmiDster.  body  and  constable  of  the  king's  castle  of  Gloucester,  for  the  escape  of 
William  Glover  late  of  Pajneswyke,  co.  Gloucester, '  glover,'  delivered  into 
his  custody  for  treason  and  felony  by  Maurice  Berkeley,  esquire,  sheriff  of 
the  county,  and  of  all  consequent  fines,  amercements  and  suits  due  to  the 
king.  By  K. 

May  15.  Grant  to  Hugh  Shirley,  one  of  the  yeomen  of  the  crown,  and  the  heirs  male 
Westminster,  of  his  body  of  the  manor  or  lordship  of  Norton  and  Throp,  co.  Northfimpton, 
with  all  liberties,  franchises,  courts  leet,  views  of  frank-pledge,  parks, 
warrens,  chaces,  fairs,  markets,  waifs  and  strays  and  other  appurtenances, 
not  exceeding  the  value  of  17/.  yearly,  and  the  manor  of  Reccheford,  co. 
Hereford,  worth  5  marks  yearly,  late  of  Thomas  Comewaill,  esquire, 
attainted  of  high  treason  by  an  act  in  Parliament  at  Westminster,  4 
November,  1  Edward  IV,  and  in  the  king's  hands  by  reason  of  the  said 
attaint,  to  hold  the  same  by  the  services  of  as  many  knights'  fees  and  as 
many  other  rents  and  services  as  they  were  held  by  before  4  March,  1 
Edward  IV,  with  all  issues  from  that  date.  By  p.8. 

May  27.  Grant  for  life  to  the  king's  servant  Richai'd  Aprice,  one  of  the  yeomen  of 
Westaiinster.  the  king's  chamber,  in  part  regard  of  the  great  losses  and  bodily  perOs 
which  he  has  suffered  for  the  king,  of  10  marks  yearly  from  the  issues  of 
two  messuages  situated  by  the  hithe  called  '  le  Toureswharf '  by  the  city  of 
London,  a  messuage  on  the  wharf  of  the  Tower  aforesaid  in  which  John 
Elyngham,  deceased,  lately  dwelt  and  a  garden  adjoining,  and  all  other 
messuages  on  the  said  wharf  and  gardens  and  all  vacant  plots  on  each  side  of 
the  common  street  or  way  between  the  gate  at  the  east  end  of  the  wharf  and 
the  bridge  across  '  le  flode  gate '  of  the  wharf.  By  p.s. 

Mbmbranb  8. 

May  29.         General  pardon  to  John  Haliday  the  elder  of  Bishop's  Lynn,  co.  Norfolk, 

WestmiDster.  <  marchaunt,'  for  all  offences  committed  by  him  before  20  May  last ;  grant 

to  him  of  all  debts  and  sums  of  money  due  to  him  before  that  date  and  all 

his  goods  and  chattels,  although  they  be  forfeited  to  the  crown  ;  and  grant 

to  him  of  full  power  to  plead  and  recover  by  process  of  law.  By  K. 

May  21.  Grant  to  Thomas,  the  prior,  and  the  convent  of  the  house  of  St.  Mary 
Westminster,  and  St  Petroc,  Bodmyn,  co.  Cornwall^  that  they  and  their  successors  shall 
hold  their  priory  quit  of  any  corrody  or  sustenance  to  be  granted  at  the 
mandate  or  request  of  the  k{^ ;  on  their  supplication  that  as  their  church  is 
of  the  foundation  of  William  Warwest,  sometime  bishop  of  Exeter,  and  of 
the  patronage  of  the  king's  kinsman  George,  bishop  of  Exeter,  and  not  of 
the  foundation  of  any  king  of  England,  they  ought  to  be  quit  of  such  corrody 
or  sustenance,  but  that  they  have  long  been  charged  with  one  and  their 
house  has  come  to  such  poverty  that  they  can  scarcely  observe  divine 
service.  By  K. 

May  24.         Grant  for  life  to  David  Hawardedyn  of  the  hermitage  of  Newe  Castell 
Westminster,  under  Lyne,  co.  Stafford,  with  all  profits.  ^j  p.8. 

June  17.        Grant  for  life  to  William  Danyell,  knight,  that  he  be  one  of  the  poor 

Westminster,  knights  of  the  college  of  the  king's  free  chapel  of  St.  George  within 

Wyndesore  Castle,  receiving  such  wages  daily  and  a  vesture  yearly  at  the 

hands  of  the  warden  of.  the  college  with  a  habitation  within  the  castle  as  any 

other  of  the  poor  knights  has  received.  By  p.8. 

May  30.         Grant  in  mortmain  to  Master  Nicholas  Wright,  the  master  or  provost^  and 

Westminster,  the  chaplains  or  fellows  of  the  colle^  of  SS.  Gregory  and  Martin,  Wy, 

CO.  Kent,  of  the  advowsons  and  rectories  of  the  churches  of  Newton  by  the 

heth,  Branset  and   Promehill,   co.   Kent,  and  the  churches  themselves, 

formerly  held  by  the  abbess  of  Guynes  in  the  county  of  Artpis  beyond  the 


442  CALENDAR  OF  PATENT  ROLLS. 


1465.  Membrane  8 — cont. 

sea,  and  the  advowsons  of  the  vicarages  of  the  said  churches,  the  grange  of 
Bransette  and  the  lands  of  Newton  and  Promhill,  with  gleb^,  tithes, 
oblations,  fruits,  pensions,  portions,  rents,  farms,  services  and  other  profits, 
with  issues  from  4  March,  1  Edward  IV.  tliat  thej  may  pi'ay  for  the  happy 
and  prosperous  estate  of  the  king,  his  consort  Elizabeth,  queen  of  England, 
and  his  mother  Cicely,  duchess  of  York,  and  for  their  souls  after  death  and 
the  souls  of  the  king's  father  Richard,  late  duke  of  York,  and  his  ancestors. 

By  p.s. 

June  19.         Mandate  to  all  to  permit  John  Englyssh,  chaplain,  born  in  the  town  of 

Westminster.  Neubotell  in  Scotland,  dwelling  in  England  at  Brandesion,  co.  Suffolk,  who 

ha8  taken  an  oath  of  fealty  and  allegiance,  to  inhabit  the  realm  peaceably 

and  enjoy  his  goods.  By  p.s. 

June  4.  Appointment,  during  pleasure,  of  William  Laken  as  one  of  the  justices  of 

Westminster,  the  King's  Bench,  receiving  the  accustomed  fees.  By  K. 

June  19.         Grant  for  life  to  the  king's  servant  Edward  Stephynson  of  2d.  daily  from 
Westminster,  the  issues  of  the  count|es  of  Norfolk  and  Suffolk.  By  p.s. 

March  30.        Manumission  of  John  Rolf  son  of  John  Rolf,  bom  a  bondman  in  villeinage 
WestminBter.  of  the  king's  lordship  and  honour  of  Clare,  co.  Suffolk,  with  all  his  issue. 

By  p.s. 

June  19.  Whereas  Thomas  Philippes  of  Berkyng,  co.  Essex,  *yoman,'  in  the 
Westminster.  Marshalsea  prison  to  find  security  to  keep  the  peace  towards  the  king  and 
his  people  and  especially  towards  John  Kelsey,  was  delivered  on  bail  on 
Wednesday  after  tha  morrow  of  the  Purification,  2  Edward  IV,  before  the 
king  at  Westminster  to  William  Dodde  of  London,  ^  marchaunt,'  and  John 
Philippes  of  Berkyng,  CO.  Essex,  *yoman,'  until  one  month  after  Easter,  to 
appear  before  the  king  at  that  time  and  keep  the  peace  in  the  meanwhile 
under  penalty,  the  said  William  and  John  in  10/.  each  and  the  said  Thomas 
in  20i.,  and  the  said  Thomas  failed  to  appear  at  the  said  time,  the  king 
hereby  pardons  to  the  said  John  Philippes  the  said  sums  of  money.     By  p.s. 

Membrane  7. 

March  30.        Grant  to  the  king's  sister  Margaret  of  a  yearly  rent  of  400  marks  at  the 

WestminBter.  receipt  of  the  Exchequer  until  the  king  shall  provide  her  with  a  suitable 

marriage.     \^FcBderaJ]  By  K. 

March  30.        Grant,  during  oflBlce,  to  John  Ifegg,  knight,  treasurer  of  the  household, 

Westminster,  of  all  the  profit  and  all  that  pertains  to  the  king  from  the  mint,  coinage  and 

exchange  in  the  city  and  Tower  of  London  or  elsewhere  within  the  realm  of 

England  for  the  payment  of  the  expenses  of  the  household.  By  K. 

M  arch  26.  Exemplification  of  the  tenor  of  the  enrolment  of  letters  patent  dated 
Westminster.  17  August,  1  Edward  IV.  being  a  grant  to  the  mayor  and  society  of  the 
merchants  of  the  staple  of  Calais  of  6*.  8rf.  from  the  subsidy  of  eiich  sack 
of  wool  and  every  '240  wool-fells  shipped  by  them  until  they  be  fully 
satisfied  of  1,000/.  lent  by  them  to  the  king.  The  above  letters  have  been 
casually  lost,  as  Thomas  Thwaytes  has  taken  oath  in  Chancery,  and  will  be 
surrendered  and  cancelled  if  found.     Vacated. 

May  3.  Pardon  to  Oliver  Caston  of  London,  <  skynner,*  of  his  outlawry  in  the 

Westminster,  county  of  Northampton  for  not  appearing  before  the  king  to  answer  for 

trespasses  against  the  statute  of  hunters,  he  having  surrendered  to  the 

Marshalsea  prison,  as  John  Markham,  chief  justice  of  the  King's  Bench, 

has  certified,  provided  that  he  satisfy  the  king  in  that  matter. 

May  20.         Licence,  for  33*.  4rf.  paid  in    the  hanaper,   for  John   Broughton   the 

Westminster,  younger,  esquire,  to  grant  the  manor  of  Colne  Engayne,  co.  Essex,  which 

he  holds  in  chief,  with  the  exception  of  one  acre  in  the   same,  to  John 


6  EDWARD  IV.— Pabt  I.  443 


1465«  Membrane  7 — cont. 

Broughton  the  elder,  esqaire,  and  his  heirs  and  assigns,  and  for  the  latter 
to  re-grant  the  same  to  the  said  John  Broughton  the  younger  and  Anne 
his  wife  and  the  heirs  of  his  body  with  remainder  to  his  right  heirs. 

May  24.  Pardon  to  Walter  Bluet,  esquire,  son  and  heir  of  John  Bluet,  John 
Westminster.  Wroughton,  William  Harewell,  esquire,  and  Nicholas  Bluet,  son  of  the  said 
Walter,  and  Joan  his  wite  of  all  grants,  alienations  and  perquisitions  of  and 
in  the  manor  of  Sturmynstre  Mareschall  called  *  Beauchampesmaner,'  co. 
Dorset,  held  in  chief,  and  all  intrusions  and  entries  therein  before  18  May 
last.  By  p.s.  and  for  20  marks  paid  in  the  hanaper. 

April  8.  Grant  for  life  to  John  Gerveys  of  Bury  St.  Edmunds,  co.   Suffolk,  of  the 

Westminster,  manor  of  Brent  Bradfeld,  co.  Suffolk,  late  of  Thomas  Boos,  late  lord  Boos, 
attainted  of  high  treason,  alias  the  manor  of  Bradfeld  Combust  commonly 
called  the  manor  of  Boos,  with  knights'  fees  and  all  other  profits,  in  the 
king's  hands  by  the  forfeiture  of  the  said  Thomas  by  vigour  of  an  act  in 
Parliament  at  Westminster,  4  November,  1  Edward  IV.  to  hold  the  same 
by  the  services  of  as  many  knights'  fees  and  as  many  other  rents  and 
services  as  they  were  held  by  before  4  March,  1  Edward  IV.  with  all  issues 
before  2  April  last ;  and  pardon  to  John  SenykyU  and  John  Gerveys,  late 
farmers  of  the  manor,  and  John  Martyn  of  Bodesdal,  co.  Suffolk,  'gen  til- 
man,'  and  Thomas  Aidehous  of  Mendlesham,  co.  Suffolk,  '  gentilman,'  their 
mainpernors,  and  Thomas  Colte,  esquire,  and  John  Smyth,  late  occupiers 
of  the  manor,  and  John  Gerveys  of  Bury  St.  Edmunds,  co.  Suffolk,  '  gentil- 
man,' and  John  Pernell  of  the  same,  *  yoman,'  their  mainpernors,  of  all 
debts,  accounts  and  arrears  due  from  them  to  the  king.  By  p.s. 

June  21.  Exemption  for  life  of  the  king's  servant  Thomas  Warham,  *  carpenter,' 

Westminster,  from  being  put  on  assizes,  juries  or  inquisitions  and  from  being  made 

collector  or  assessor  of  tenths,  fifteenths  or  other   subsidies  or  constable, 

bailiff  or  other  officer  of  the  king ;  and  grant  that  no  person  shall  take  any 

of  his  goods  or  chattels,  alive  or  dead,  against  his  will.  By  p.s. 

June  22.        General  pardon  to  John  Dawson  late  of  Dancastre,  co.  York,  gentleman, 
Westminster,  of  all  offences  committed  by  him  before  15  June  last.  By  p.9. 

Membrane  6. 

March  23.  Licence  for  John  Dudley,  knight,  and  William  Emele  to  graot  the  castle, 
Westminster,  town,  manor  and  lordship  of  Clonne,  the  castle,  town,  manor  and  lordship 
of  Oswaldestre,  the  manor  of  Ruyton  in  the  marches  of  Wales,  the  castle 
and  manor  of  Shrewardyn,  the  manors  of  Bukkepell,  Clonbury,  Dodyngion, 
Hyntes,  Stretton,  Lydley,  Conede,  Acton  Rounde,  Wroxcestre,  Upton, 
Dalleley,  Westhope,  Hoth,  Ercall,  Tyverton  and  Clompton  and  the  hundred 
of  Pesselowe,  co.  Salop,  the  manors  of  Byggener,  Leuemynstre,  Cokkynge, 
Wapham,  Offeham,  Storheton,  Preston,  Stanstede,  Esthamptonet,  West- 
hamptonet,  Wolbedynge,  Pynkehurst,  Wonworth,  Oldeshoreham,  Stopham, 
Cudlawe,  Barecourte,  Wylbrugge,  Almodyngton,  Lynche,  Oversolde,  Legh, 
Cleylondes,  Rotteland,  Polynge,  Upmerdon  and  Wollavyngton  and  two 
parts  of  the  sheriff's  turn,  with  reasonable  aid  of  the  same,  in  the  rapes  of 
Arundell  and  Chichestre  and  the  advowsons  of  the  college  of  Holy  Trinity, 
*Arundell,  and  the  hospital  of  Arundell,  co.  Sussex,  the  manors  of  Lymyngton, 
Stoketristre,  Goklyngton,  Bayford,  Legh,  Spertgrove,  Somerford  Mautravers 
and  the  office  of  Uie  keeper  of  the  forest  of  Selwode,  co.  Somerset,  the 
manors  of  Wollecombe,  Philpston,  Upwymbourne,  Frome,  Whytfyld,  Long- 
ton,  Lordes,  Wodton,  Lychet  Mautravers,  Estmordon,  Worth,  Wotton  Fitz 
Payn,  Rammesbury,  Loderey,  Wolcombe  Mautravers,  co.  Dorset,  the  manors 
of  Wodchestre,  Eyngestanley,  Stonehouse,  Shirdyngton  and  Achardvs,  co. 
Gloucester,  the  castle,  town  and  manor  of  Castellacre,  the  manors  of  Mileham, 
Buston-by-Mileham  and  Flokkethorpe  and  the  advowsons  of  the  priory  of 
Castellacre,  and  the  church  of  Buston  by  the  sea,  co.  Norfolk,   the  manors 


I 


444  CALENDAR  OF  PATENT  ROLLS. 


1465^  Membrane  6 — cont. 

oi  Kevele,  Boy  ton,  Stapylford  and  a  moiety  of  the  manor  of  Bulky  ndon  by 
Kevele,  co.  Wilts,  the  manor  of  Eyneho  and  the  advowson  of  the  hospital 
of  SS.  James  and  John,  Eyneho,  co.  Northampton,  the  manor  of  Grandes- 
dene,  co.  Huntingdon,  and  the  manor  of  Crokesden,  co.  Gambridge,  held  in 
chief,  to  Thomas,  archbishop  of  Canterbury,  George,  bishop  of  Exeter  and 
chancellor,  William,  bishop  of  Winchester,  William,  earl  oi  Arundel, 
Edmund  Grey,  knight,  Richard  Fenys,  knight,  William  Ha8t3mge,  knight, 
William  Dudley,^  clerk,  Thomas  Chaundler,  clerk,  John  Baker,  clerk, 
Maurice  Barkeley,  esquire,  Edward  Barkeley,  esquire,  Thomas  Uvedale, 
esquire,  Richard  Dalynerigge,  esquire,  John  Sydenham,  esquire,  John 
Wode,  esquire,  Thomas  Welle  and  Thomas  Acton  and  their  heirs. 

By  p.s.  and  for  208,  paid  in  the  hanaper. 

May  13.  Grant  in  frank  almoin  to  Henry  Sampson,  the  dean,  and  the  chapter  of 

WcBtminster.  the  college  or  collegiate  church  of  Westbury,  co.  Gloucester,  of  the  custody 
of  the  hospital  of  St.  Laurence  by  Bristol,  void  and  in  the  king's  gift,  with 
all  its  rights,  liberties  and  franchises,  that  they  may  pray  for  Uie  good 
estate  of  the  king  and  Elizabeth  his  consort  and  Cicely  his  mother  and 
Richard,  earl  of  Warwick,  and  Anne  his  consoit  and  for  their  souls  after 
death  and  the  souls  of  the  king's  father  Richard,  duke  of  York,  the  king's 
brother  Edmund,  earl  of  Rutland,  and  Richard,  earl  of  Salisbury,  and  Alice 
his  consort.  By  p.s. 

April  1 6.  Grant  to  Richard  Lee,  citizen  and  grocer  and  alderman  and  late  mayor  of 
WeitmioBter.  London,  and  his  heirs  and  assigns  of  the  patronage  and  advowson  of  the 
parish  church  of  St.  Stephen  in  Walbrok  in  the  ward  of  Walbrook,  London, 
which  Robert  Whitingham,  knight,  lately  had,  belonging  to  the  king  by  his 
forfeiture  by  reason  of  an  act  in  Parliament  at  Westminster,  4  November, 
1  Edward  IV.  By  p^. 

June  17.         General  pardon  to  David  Brekenok  late  of  the  town  of  Westminster, 

Westminster,  co.  Middlesex,  '  gentilman,'  alias  late  of  Blaukechapelton,  co.  Middlesex, 

for  all  offences  committed  by  him  befcre  26  May  last.  By  p.s. 

Juno  12.  Grant  foi  life  to  Master  William   Hatteclyf,  doctor  in  medicine  and 

Wentminster.  physician  sworn  for  the  protection  of  the  king's  person,  of  40/.  yearly  from 
Michaelmas,  3  Edward  IV.  from  the  customs  and  subsidies  in  the  port  of 
Southampton,  in  lieu  of  a  grant  to  him  of  20/.  yearly  from  the  issues  of  the 
manors  and  lordships  of  Cokeham  and  Bray,  co.  Berks,  and  20/.  yearly 
from  the  50  marks  which  the  abbot,  prior  and  convent  of  St.  Albans  render 
yearly  to  the  king  for  the  voidance  of  the  abbey  and  its  temporalities,  by 
letters  patent,  surrendered.  By  p.s. 

June  20.  Creation  of  Walter  Blount,  knight,  as  a  baron  of  the  realm,  with  the 
Westminster,  name,  style  and  title  of  lord  of  Mountjoy,  in  tail  male ;  and  grant  to  him 
and  the  heirs  male  of  his  body,  for  the  better  maintenance  of  their  estate, 
of  20  marks  yearly,  viz.  8  marks  out  of  a  moiety  of  the  town  of  Thurbaston, 
CO.  Derby,  and  12  marks  out  of  the  issues  of  the  counties  of  Nottingham 
and  Derby.  By  p.s. 

June  22.         Grant  for  life  to  Grisilda  late  the  wife  of  John  Hende  the  elder,  esquire, 

Westminster,  of  a  tun  of  good  wine  yearly  at  the  hands  of  the  chief  butler  of  England  or 

his  deputy.  By  p.s. 

June  22.         The  like  to  the  king's  servitor  Thomas  Sandelande  of  the  town  of 

Westminster.   Shrewsbury,  for   his  good   service  to  the   king  and  his  father  in  their 

journeys  in  England  and  Ireland,  of  an  annuity  of  10  marks  irom  the 

farm  of  the  said  town  and  the  old  and  new  increment  of  the  same.     By  p.s. 

Membrane  5. 

July  6.  Ratification  of  the  estate  which  Roger  Chesshyre  has  as  canon  of  the 

Westminster,   cathedral  church  of  St.  Asaph  and  prebendary  of  the  prebend  of  Altemeleden 

in  the  same.  By  K. 


5  EDWARD  IV.—Pakt  1.  145 


1465.  Membrane  5 — cont, 

4  ■ 

July  5.  Grant  for  life  to  the  kiog*8  consort  Elizabeth,  queen  of  England,  in 

>¥e8tmiiitter.  reeompence  of  certain  annuities  and  burdens  with  which  divers  casdes, 
manors,  lordships  and  other  possessions  granted  to  her  by  letters  patent  are 
charged,  of  the  manor  and  lordship  of  Laugley  Marreys,  co.  Buckingham, 
the  manor  and  lordship  of  Fekenham  and  the  forest  of  Fekenham,  co. 
Worcester,  the  castle,  manor  and  lordship  of  Hadley,  co.  Essex,  and  the 
hundred  and  the  office  of  bailiff  of  Falwesley,  co.  Northampton,  with 
chattels  of  felons,  fugitives  and  outlaws,  knights'  fees,  advowsons,  wards, 
marriages,  reliefs,  escheats,  courts  leet,  views  of  frank-pledge,  hundreds, 
£ur8,  markets,  parks,  warrens,  chaces  and  all  other  profits,  liberties  and 
franchises,  L08«.  ^d.  yearly  from  the  farm  of  the  honours  of  Paverell, 
Boulogne  and  Hagenet  with  their  members  and  appurtenances  in  the 
counties  of  Buckingham,  Northampton  and  Leicester  and  the  castle  and 
honour  of  Huntyngdon  with  members  and  appurtenances  in  the  counties  of 
Huntingdon,  Cambridge,  Bedford,  Buckingham  and  Northampton,  lafjo  of 
John  Hastynges,  late  earl  of  Pembroke,  with  courts  Icet,  rents,  views  of 
frank  pledge  and  other  customs,  profits  and  commodities,  13/.  yearly  from 
the  farm  of  the  manor  of  Denham  alioi  Benham  Levell,  co.  Berks,  two 
messuages,  two  carucates  of  land,  40  acres  of  meadow  and  20  acres  of  wood 
in  Holbenham  and  Westbroke,  co.  Berks,  which  Eichard  Heyrefeld, 
deceased,  held  for  life  of  the  grant  of  Richard  II.  and  200  acres  of  wood  in 
Hurst,  CO.  Wilts,  and  the  hundred  of  Hassherugge  which  Richard  Montageu, 
knight,  held  in  chief  in  fee  tail  from  Edward  [III.],  7/.  yearly  from  the 
farm  of  the  manor  of  Wrattyng  alias  Talworth  Wrattyng,  co.  Suffolk,  8/. 
yearly  from  the  farm  of  the  seven  hundreds  of  Cokeham  and  Bray,  co. 
BerJcs,  10/.  yearly  from  the  farm  of  two  parts  and  the  third  part  of  the 
manor  of  Codyngton,  cos.  Oxford  and  Berks,  from  Richard  Dammory  and 
his  heirs,  13/.  6«.  8</.  yearly  from  the  farm  of  two  parts  of  the  manor  or 
lordship  of  Swaleufeld,  co.  Berks,  10/.  yearly  from  the  farm  of  the  manor 
or  lordship  of  Hampsted  Marshall,  co.  Berks,  lo/.  yearly  from  iLc  abbess 
and  convent  of  Shaftesbury  for  i  he  custody  of  the  town  of  Shaflesbury,  co. 
Dorset,  12/.  yearly  from  the  farm  of  the  manor  of  Kyngton,  cos.  Warwick 
and  Leicester,  at  the  hands  of  Nicholas  Segrave  and  his  heirs,  100«.  yearly 
from  the  said  Nicholas  Segrave  and  his  heirs  from  the  farm  of  the  wapen- 
take of  Goflcete,  co.  Leicester,  116«..  yearly  from  the  farm  of  a  moiety  of 
Tamworth,  co.  Warwick,  and  the  increment  of  the  same,  and  12/.  1H«.  6r/. 
yearly  from  Roger  Beller  from  the  fee  farm  of  the  hundred  of  Framlande, 
CO.  Leicester.  By  p.8. 

June  29.         General   pardon   to  John   Gilbert,   late  of  Gloucestre,  co.  Gloucester, 
Westminster.    <  bruer.'  By  p.s. 

July  6.  The  like  to  Richanl  Wheler  late  of  Hereford,  co.  Hereford,  *  scoler.' 

Westminster.  By  p.s. 

July  6.  Grant  for  life  to  John  Stamper  of  the  parish  of  Utterhannowe,  co.  Cum* 

Westminster,  berland,  of  a  messuage  with  buildings  on    it  in  the  said  county  called 

*Preate  Croft,*  not  exceeding  the- yearly  value  of  10*.  By  K. 

July  3.  Grant  to  James  Haryngton,  knight,  and  the  heirs  male  of  his  body 

Westminster,  of  the  castle,  manor  and  lordship  of  Thurland,  all  messuages,  lands, 
rents  and  services  in  the  town  of  Tunotell,  a  park  called  ^  Fayretwhayte 
parke '  and  all  lands,  rents  and  services  in  the  towns  or  hamlets  of  Warton, 
Overborowe,  Netherborowe,  Oldwenyngton,  Gule  and  Erghom,  co.  Lan- 
caster, and  Bentham,  Burton  and  Lonnesdale,  co.  York,  and  the  town  of 
Holme  in  Kendell,  co.  Westmoreland,  late  of  Richard  Tunstell,  knight,  a 
rebel,  and  in  the  king's  hands  hy  reason  of  an  act  in  Parliament  at 
Westminster,  4  November,  1  Edward  IV.  not  exceeding  the  sum  of  100/. 
in  yearly  value,  to  hold  by  fealty  only,  and  all  issues  of  the  same  from 
the  said  4  November.  By  K, 


446  CALENDAR  OP  PATENT  ROLLS. 


]^4g5^  Membrane  5 — cont. 

July  11.  Grant  for  life  to  the  king's  servitor  John  Allestre,  one  of  the  yeomen  of 

Westminster,   the  king's  chamber,  of  4c?.  daily  from  Michaelmas  last  from  the  issues  or 

farm  of  the  subsidy  and  ulnage  of  cloth  within  the  town  of  Bristol  and  the 

liberty  of  the  same.  By  p.s. 

June  18.         Grant  to  Richard,  bishop  of  Salisbury,  of  all  the  king's  houses  and 

Westminster,  buildings  on  an  acre  and  a  hsdf  of  land  in  a  croft  called  '  Lymecrof t '  in  the 

parish  of  Eton  opposite  to  the  college  of  Eton,  with  licence  to  pull  down 

and  carry  away  the  same.  By  p.s. 

June  18.  Grant  for  life  to  Tliomas  Shenton,  yeoman  of  the  king's  privy  spicery,  of 

Westminster,  three  tenements  and  23^  acres  and  a  virgate  of  land  at  Milende,  co. 
Middlesex,  commonly  called  '  Hammys  Lyvelode/  not  exceeding  the  yearly 
value  of  4  marks,  sometime  of  William  Kymyngton,  yeoman  of  the  larder 
of  Richard  II.  of  the  grant  of  the  said  king  tor  life.  The  said  William  in 
his  lifetime  sold  his  estate  therein  to  one  Richard  Hammys,  who  after  his 
decease  occupied  them  and  held  them  unjustly  in  fee,  and  they  have  now 
come  into  the  king's  hands.  By  p.s. 

July  6.  Commission  to  William  Melsounby  and  Thomas  Cartlage  to  take  coiners, 

Westminster,  workmen  and  labourers  for  the  works  of  the  mints  or  dies  of  gold  and 
silver  at  the  city  of  Bristol.  By  K. 

The  like  to  John  Sweder  and  Thomas  Warner  at  the  city  of  Norwich. 
The  like  to  John  Worlege  and  Thomas  Melsom  at  the  city  of  Coventry. 


Membrane  4. 

March  6.  Exemplification,  at  the  request  of  the  king's  kinswoman  Alice,  duchess 
Westminster,  of  Suffolk,  widow,  the  present  tenant  of  the  manor  of  Leyghtonbusard,  of 
the  tenor  of  a  certificate  of  certain  liberties  allowed  to  the  abbess  of  Font^- 
vrault  before  Robert  Ardern  and  his  fellows,  justices  in  eyre  in  the  county 
of  Bedford  in  the  year  4  Edward  III.  sent  into  the  Chancery  of  Henry  IV. 
by  the  treasurer  and  chamberlains  and  in  the  files  of  Chancery,  as 
follows : — 

The  abbess  of  Font^vrault  was  summoned  to  answer  the  king  by  what 
warrant  she  claims  to  have  divers  specified  liberties  in  her  manor  of 
Leyghtonbusard,  and  she  came  by  John  Spakman,  her  attorney,  and  says 
that  as  regards  view  of  frank-pledge,  waif  and  stray  and  a  market  on 
Tuesdays,  she  and  her  predecessors  have  always  been  seised  of  the  same, 
and  that  as  regards  a  fair  for  three  days  at  the  feast  of  St.  Dnnstan  and 
free  warren  flenry  HI.  by  a  charter  which  she  produces  granted  the  same 
to  Mabel,  sometime  abbeiss  of  Font^vrault,  and  the  nuns  there,  and  as 
regards  the  other  liberties  she  produces  a  charter  of  Edward  II.  reciting 
a  charter  of  Edward  I.  confirming  a  charter  of  John  granting  the 
same.  And  Richard  de  Aldeburgh,  appearing  for  the  king,  says  that 
the  liberties  of  view,  waif,  stray  and  infiAngenthef  were  not  claimed 
in  the  last  eyre,  and  the  abbess  cannot  deny  it  and  seeks  to  be  admitted 
to  claim  them,  offering  to 'the  king  20«,  and  also  to  claim  chattels  of 
felons  and  fugitives  and  amercements  of  herself  and  her  men^  by  virtue 
of  a  clause  in  the  charter  of  John.  And  the  treasurer  and  barons  of  the 
Exchequer  certified  an  entry  on  the  roll  of  6  Henry  III.  in  Warwick 
and  Leicester  thus: — Vicecotnes  retomavit  de  xvjd.  de  francoplegio 
Willelmi  de  Merton  pro  fuga  et  de  dimidia  marca  de  viUata  de  Gatton 
pro  receptamento  et  de  xxxvs.  vjd.  de  caidllts  Umfridi  le  Bakeware 
utlagati  et  dimidia  marca  de  cataUis  Radulphi  DouhUsquiele  in  Sutton 
projfuga  et  de  dimidia  marca  de  Johanne  filio  Gilberti  pro  disseisina  in 
thesauro  nichil  et  mxmialibus  de  Fonte  Ebrulfi  Ivjs.  vjd,  et  quietus  estj 
and  judgment  was  given  for  the  abbess  for  chattels  of  felons  and  fugitives. 
And  the  said  Richard  does  not  deny  that  the  said  amercements  and  other 


Af 


6  EDWARD  IV.— Part  I.  447 


1465,  Membrane  4 — cont. 

liberties  were  allowed  in  the  last  eyre,  and  judgment  was  given  for  her 
accordiuglj,  but  he  pleads  for  the  king  that  enquiry  should  be  made 
whether  she  has  pillory,  tumbrel  and  ^^ows  within  the  said  view  by  reason 
of  her  liberty  of  infangenthef,  whether  she  and  her  predecessors  have  used  the 
said  liberties^  view,  stray jwarren,  market  and  fair,  and  whether  they  have  held 
the  market  and  fair  on  other  days  than  those  granted  in  the  charters.  And 
jurors  say  on  oath  that  the  abb^s  and  her  predecessors  have  used  the  said 
view,  stray,  warren,  market  and  fair  and  other  liberties,  and  the  abbess  has 
not  failed  in  the  use  of  any  except  that  she  levied  fines  and  amercements 
from  transgressors  of  the  assize  of  bread  and  ale  to  the  sum  of  1  mark  in 
the  case  when  they  deserved  to  be  punished  by  the  pillory  and  tumbrel. 
And  judgment  was  given  that  the  said  view  should  be  taken  into  the  king's 
hands,  but  afterwards  it  was  re-granted  to  the  abbess  by  fine  of  20s,  and 
judgment  was  given  to  her  for  the  other  liberties. 

Nov.  16.  Licence  for  Thomas  Witham,  esquire,  and  his  executors  to  found  a 
WeBtminster.  perpetual  chantry  of  one  chaplain  to  celebrate  divine  service  daily  at  the 
altar  of  Holy  Trinity  and  St.  Giles  in  a  church  or  chapel  newly  built 
by  him  at  Corneburgh,  co.  York,  for  the  good  estate  of  the  king  and  the 
said  Thomas  and  Agnes  his  wife  and  for  their  souls  after  death  and  the 
souls  of  the  king's  father  Richard,  duke  of  York,  Richard,  earl  of  Salisbury, 
and  Alice  his  wife  and  the  relatives  and  benefactors  of  the  said  Thomas 
and  Agnes  and  all  for  whom  the  said  Thomas  is  in  any  wav  bound  to  pray, 
to  be  called  the  chantry  of  Thomas  Witham,  esquire ;  and  for  the  alienation 
in  mortmain  to  the  said  chaplain  by  the  said  Thomas  and  Agnes  and  their 
executors  and  assigns  of  lands,  rents,  services  and  possessions,  not  held  in 
chief,  to  the  value  of  10  marks  yeaiiy. 

By  E.  and  for  lOOs,  paid  in  the  hanaper. 


\4QQ,  Membranb  3. 

Jan.  29.  Licence  for  Nicholas  Carewe,  son  and  heir  of  Nicholas  Carewe,  esquire, 
Westminster,  deceased,  tenant  in  chief,  to  enter  freely  into  all  manors,  lands,  reversions, 
rents,  services,  fees,  views  of  frank-pledge,  courts  leet,  knights'  fees,  advow- 
sons  and  other  possessions  in  England  of  which  his  father  was  seised,  and 
which  on  the  death  of  the  latter  or  of  Margaret  his  wife,  deceased,  came 
into  the  king's  hands  and  should  descend  to  &e  said  Nicholas  the  son ;  and 
to  receive  all  issues  from  the  times  of  their  death.  By  p.s. 

March  2.         General  pardon  to  David  Gk>ggan  or  Goghan  of  Caerdefe, '  yoman.' 
Westminster.  By  p.s. 

March  2.  Grant  for  life  to  John  Brokeman,  esquire,  from  1  April,  4  Edward  IV. 
Westminster,  of  a  messuage,  a  dovecote  and  450  acres  of  land  in  Birchyngton  and 
Monketon,  in  the  Isle  of  Thanet,  co.  Kent,  late  of  Henry  Beauford,  late 
duke  of  Somerset,  attainted  by  virtue  of  an  act  of  Parliament  at  West- 
minster, 4  November,  1  Edwaord  IS ,  and  in  the  king's  hands  by  reason 
of  the  said  act.  By  p.s. 

Jan.  20.  The  like  to  the  king's  servant  Alvred  Comburgh,  esquire,  one  of  the 
Westminster,  ushers  of  the  king's  chamber,  of  the  offices  of  constable  of  the  king's  castle 
of  Rostormell,  co.  Cornwall,  and  parker  of  the  king's  park  of  Roetormell, 
and  the  herbage  and  pannage  of  the  park  and  the  fishery  of  the  king's 
water  of  Fowey  in  the  county  of  Cornwall,  receiving  the  accustomed  fees 
from  the  issues  of  the  duchy  of  Cornwall  at  the  hands  of  the  receiver- 
general  of  the  duchy,  in  lieu  of  a  like  grant  of  the  said  offices  and  the  said 
herbage  and  pannage  to  the  king's  servant  William  Sayer,  by  letters  patent 
dated  6  March,  8  Edward  IV.  surrendered.  By  K 


448  CALENDAR  OF  PATENT  ROLLS. 


]^4g5^  Membrane  2. 

Nov.  18.         General  pardon  to  William  Wodeward,  late  of  London,  co.  Middlesez, 
Westminster.   '  goldesmjth/  alias  William  Woddewerd,  late  of  London, '  joman/  By  pj9. 

Nov.  16.  Grant  for  life  to  the  king's  servitor  John  Baker,  jeoman  of  the  king's 
WeRtminster.  privy  larder,  for  his  good  service  to  the  king  and  his  father,  of  the  king's 
manor  or  lordship  of  Budefeld,  co.  Gloucester,  which  Richard  Boteler  and 
Matilda  his  wife,  lately  held  for  life  of  the  grant  of  Henry  lY.  in  the  king's 
hands  hy  force  of  an  act  in  Parliament  at  Westminster,  4  November, 
1  Edward  IV.  to  hold  the  same  from  4  March,  1  Edward  IV.  with  all 
issues  from  that  date.  By  p.s. 

Nov.  23.  Grant  to  Thomas  Ive,  whom  the  king  lately  appointed  by  letters  patent 
Westminster,  to  enquire  by  oath  of  good  men  of  the  city  of  London  and  the  liberty  of 
the  same  and  the  counties  of  Middlesex,  Surrey  and  Kent  into  the 
carrying  of  wools,  woolfells  and  other  merchandise  of  the  staple  without 
the  realm  or  from  place  to  place  within  the  realm  contrary  to  the  form  of 
the  statutes  and  oidinances  of  the  realm,  of  a  moiety  of  the  consequent 
forfeitures,  in  consideration  of  his  great  expenses  in  the  execution  of  his 
commission. 

1466. 

Feb.  16.  Grant  for  life  to  the  king's  servant  John  Blakeney,  one  of  the  clerks  of 

Westrainiter.  the  signet,  of  the  office  of  the  custody  of  the  king's  manor  of  Eltham  with  the 
accustomed  fees  from  the  issues  of  the  counties  of  Warwick  and  Leicester 
and  all  other  profits,  in  lieu  of  a  grant  of  the  custody  to  the  king's  servant 
Thomas  Gryme,  yeoman  of  the  king's  jewels,  by  letters  patent  dated 
9  April  last,  surrendered.  By  p.s. 

1465. 

Dec.  13.         Appointment,  during  pleasure,  of  John  Senecles  as  controller  of  the 

Westminster,  great  custom  and  the  subsidy  of  wools,  hides,  and  woolfells  in  the  port  of 

London  and  ports  and  places  adjacent,  receiving  the  accustomed   fees, 

provided  that  he  execute  the  office  in  person,  with  the  custody  of  one  part 

of  the  coket  seal.  By  bill  of  the  treasurer. 

March  15,  Grant  for  life  to  Richard  Hunte  and  the  king's  servant  Geofirey  Springe 
Westminster,  of  the  office  of  parker  or  keeper  of  the  king's  park  of  Henle  alias  Hendeley 
on  le  Heth,  co.  Surrey,  receiving  fees  as  in  the  time  of  Edward  III.  from 
the  issues,  rents,  profits  and  emoluments  belonging  to  the  king's  castle  of 
Wyndesore  with  all  other  profits,  in  lieu  of  a  like  grant  to  the  said  Richard 
Hunte  by  letters  patent  dated  22  March,  3  Edward  IV.  surrendered. 

By  p.8, 

]^4gQ^  Membrane  1. 

Feb.  4.  Pardon  to  Thomas  Asby,  citizen  and  draper  of  Loudon,  and  Margaret 

Westminster,  his  wife,  late  the  wife  of  John  Maunche,  late  occupier  of  the  subsidy  and 
ulnage  of  cloths  in  the  county  of  Wilts  and  the  city  of  Salisbury,  and 
executrix  of  his  will  and  administratrix  of  his  goods,  of  all  ofiences,  tres- 
passes and  concealments  committed  by  the  said  John  and  all  debts  aud 
accounts  due  from  him  to  the  king  for  the  said  subsidy  and  ulnage  afler 
Martinmas,  3  Edward  lY.  By  p.s. 

Feb.  26*         Pardon  to  John  Hill  late  of  CTrleby,  co.  Lincoln,  *  yoman,'  of  all  felonies, 

Westminster,  murders,  trespasses  and  riots  of  which  he  is  indicted  and  all  outlawry  for 

the  same.  By  p.8. 

Jan.  25.  Licence  for  the  prioress  and  convent  of  Pollesworthe  to  elect  an  abbess 

Westvinster.   in  the  place  of  Benedicta  Prede,  late  abbess,  deceased. 

Feb.  20.  Grant  for  life  to  the  king's  servitor  Thomas  Cornysshe,  esquire,  the 

Westminster,  king's   privy  cook,  of  two  ruinous  tenements  in  the  parish  of  St.  Benedict 


5  EDWARD  IV.— Part  T.  449 


1466*  Menihrane  1 — cont. 

Shorhog  and  two  ruinous  cottages  with  a  garden  annexed  in  the  parish  of 
All  Saints,  Markelane,  London,  which  John  Bypon,  late  yeoman  harbinger 
{hospitator)  of  the  household  of  Heury  YI*  had  of  the  grant  of  the  said 
late  king  by  letters  patent  to  the  yearly  value  of  4/.,  now  in  the  king's 
hands  and  not  of  the  value  of  more  than  10*.  yearly.  By  p.s. 

Feb.  20.  Pardon  to  Master  John  Pemberton  of  the  Chancery,  William  Notyng- 

Wcstminster.  ham,  *  gentilman,'  and  Ralph  Bear,  executors  of  the  will  of  Master  Eichard 

Gwen,  clerk,  of  all  debts,  accounts,  aids,  fines  and  arrears  due  to  the  king 

before  20  December  last.  By  p.s. 

1465. 

June. 20.  Grant  for  ^life  to  John  Stokes,  esquire,  and  William  Staveley  of  the 

"Westminster,  office  of  parker  or  the  custody  of  the  king's  park  of  Bekeley,  co.  Oxford, 

with   the  accustomed  fees  from  the  issues  of  the  manor  or  lordship  of 

Bekeley,  in  lieu  of  a  like  grant  of  the  same  to  the  said  John  by  letters 

patent,  surrendered.  By  K. 

1466. 

Feb.  20.  Licence  for  Thomas  Warde,  clerk,  John  Sudbury,  clerk,  William 
Westminster.  Roughton,  chaplain,  Robert  Benet,  chaplain,  and  Thomas  Gylby,  executors 
of  the  will  of  John  Lonthe  late  of  Louth,  co.  Lincoln,  *  gentilman,'  to  found 
a  chantry  of  one  chaplain  to  celebrate  divine  service  daily  at  the  altar  in 
the  chapel  of  Holy  Trinity  and  All  Saints  on  the  north  side  of  the  parish 
church  of  St.  James,  Louth,  lately  erected  by  the  said  John  Louthe,  for 
the  good  estate  of  the  king  and  for  his  soul  after  death  and  for  the  souls  of 
his  father  Richard,  late  duke  of  York,  the  said  John  Louth,  Simon  Louth 
and  Alice  his  parents,  and  Richard  Argum  according  to  the  ordinance  of 
the  said  executors,  to  be  called  'John  Louthes  Ghaunterie,'  and  for  the 
alienation  in  mortmain  by  them  to  the  said  chaplain  of  lands,  rents,  rever- 
sions, services  and  possessions,  not  held  in  chief,  to  the  value  of  1 2  marks 
yearly.  By  p.s.  and  for  10/.  paid  in  the  hanaper. 

Membrane  Z2d  to  30cf,  and  28c?  to  27d. 

Commissions  of  the  peace  in  various  counties  pursuant  to  the  statutes  and 
ordinances  at  Winchester,  Northampton,  Westminster  and  Cambridge. 
(See  Appendix.) 

1466.  Membrane  26d, 

Feb.  3.  Commission  to  John  Dorward,  knight,  Walter  Writell,  Clement  Spice 

Westminster,  and  Robert  Sudbury,  to  enquire  into  the  complaint  of  John  Twyer  son  and 
heir  of  Philippa  sometime  the  wife  of  John  Twyer  the  elder,  esquire,  his 
father,  and  sister  and  heir  of  John  Brokeman  son  and  heir  of  John 
Brokeman,  esquire,  that  whereas  John  Montague,  late  earl  of  Salisbury  and 
lord  of  Monthermer  and  Stokenhamme,  was  seised  of  the  manor  of 
Gossefeld  Mohermers  in  his  demesne  as  of  fee  and  granted  it  with  all 
lands,  rents,  services,  meadows,  woods  and  pastures  and  all  other  rights, 
free  customs  and  profits  in  the  parishes  of  Gossefeld,  Bokkyng  and 
Fynchyngfeld,  co.  Essex,  to  the  said  John  Brokuman  the  elder  for  life  by 
charter  indented  dated  at  Gossefeld,  21  September,  21  Richard  II.  bv 
virtue  of  which  the  latter  was  seised  of  the  same,  and  afterwardn  the  said 
earl  by  charter  dated  28  April,  22  Richard  II.  granted  the  same  to  him  and 
his  heirs  and  assigns,  by  virtue  of  which  he  was  seised  of  the  same  in  his 
demesne  as  of  fee  in  time  o£  peace  in  time  of  Henry  [IV.]  and  received 
Iha  esplees  thereof  and  died  on  19  June,  5  Henry  V,  the  same  descended 
successively  to  the  said  John  Brokeman  the  son,  the  said  Philippa  and  the 

tf    86914.  P  p 


450  CALENDAR  OF  PATENT  ROLLS. 


]^  4  g  g  ^  Membrane  26cf — cont, 

said  complainant,  but  that  on  the  death  of  ihe  said  John  Brckexuau  Thomas, 
late  earl  of  Salisbury,  entered  into  and  occupisd  the  same  as  son  and  heir  of 
the  said  John,  late  earl  of  Salisbury,  and  died,  and  by  colour  of  an 
inquisition  taken  at  Stratford  Langthorn  before  Richard  Baynard,  then 
escheator,  on  Tuesday  before  St.  Ambrose,  1  Henry  IV.  it  was  found  that 
John  Montacue,  sometime  earl  of  Salisbuiy,  by  writing  indented  dated  20 
September,  21  Richard  11.  granted  the  same  to  John  Brokeman  for  life  as 
above  and  died  seised  of  the  reversion  thereof  and  the  reversion  was  taken 
into  the  king's  hands^  and  by  colour  of  another  inquisition  taken  at 
Coggeshale,  co.  Essex,  before  Richard  Baynard,  late  escheator,  on 
1  November,  3  Henry  VI.  it  was  found  that  John  Brokeman,  esquire,  held 
the  same  for  life  as  above  of  the  grant  of  the  said  John  Montacue,  late 
earl  of  Salisbury,  who  made  forfeiture  to  Henry  IV.  in  the  first  year 
of  his  reign  ;  wherefore  he  prays  that  justice  may  be  done.  By  p.s. 

2^^g5^  Membrane  25d» 

Nov.  20.         Commission  to  Thomas  Higford,  John  Higford,  Henry  Botiller,  Thomas 
Westminster.  jVluston  and  the  sherifl'  of  Warwick  to  enquire  into  all  treasons,  felonies, 
trespasses  and  other  crimes  committed  in  chat  county  by  Richard  Thurske 
of  Bilhsley,  co.  Warwick,  chaplain. 

1466. 

Jan.  12.  Commission  to  Robert   Ogle  of  Ogle,  knight,  John  Conyers,  knight, 

Cawood.  Edmund  Hastynges,  knight,  Robert  Maners,  knight,  Richard  Ogle,  knight, 
William  Burgh,  Roger  Thornton,  William  Rothom  and  the  sheriff  of 
Northumberland  to  arrest  William  Birde,  *  marchaunt,*  Alan  Birde  the 
younger,  *  marchaunt,'  Robert  Harden^  *  marchaunt,'  Edward  Blaxton, 
•  marchaunt,'  Thomas  Lokwode,  *  marchaunt,'  George  Chamer,  <  marchaunt,' 
Roger  Lelburn,  *  marchaunt,*  William  Lelbum,  *  marchaunt/  and  William 
Forster,  *  baker,'  all  of  Newcastle  on  Tyne,  and  bring  them  before  the  king 
in  Chancery  to  answer  for  certain  riots. 

1465. 

Dec.  1.  The  like  to  Nicholas  Southcote,  one  of  the  king's  Serjeants  at  arms,  and 

Cawood.  Ingleram  Lepton  to  arrest  Thomas  Langton  and  Margaret  late  the  wife  of 
Humphrey  Stafford  of  Frome,  in  the  diocese  of  Hereford  and  the  province 
of  Canterbury,  whom  Th.  archbishop  of  Canterbury  and  primate  of  all 
England  has  signified  to  the  king  by  letters  patent  to  have  been  excom- 
municated by  his  authority  for  their  contumacies,  and  bring  them  before  the 
king  in  Chancery  to  be  judged  according  to  the  law  and  custom  of  the 
realm,  until  holy  mother  church  be  satisfied. 

Nov.  27.         The  like  to  John  Ley ne,  alderman  of  the  town  of  Q-rantham,  Richard 
Westminster.    Copeland,   Henry  Aldeland  and  the  bailiff  of  that  town  to  arrest  John 
Wylowys,  *  milner,'  and  to  bring  him  before  the  king  in  Chancery. 

Membrane  23d. 

March  5.         Commission  to  the  king's  kinsman  John  Neville,  carl  of  Northumberland, 
Westminster,   and  Thomas  Neleson,  mayor  of  the  city  of  York,  to  arrest  Thomas  Dernton, 
monk,  late  prior  of  Holy  Trinity,  York,  and  bring  him  before  the  king  in 
Chancery  to  answer  for  certain  riots. 

March  8.         Appointment  of  Richard,  earl  of  Warwick,  and  John,  earl  of  Worcester, 

Westminster,  the  king's  kinsmen,   William  Hastynges  of  Hastynges,  knight,  and  John 

Wenlok  as   conservators  of  the  truce  between  the  king  and  his  kinsman 

Francis,  duke  of  Brittany,  with  power  to  hear  and  determine  complaints  of 

infractions. 


5  EDWARD  IV.— Part  L  451 


1465.  Membrane  2Zd — cont, 

March  8.         Appointment  of  the  king's  kinsman  Richard,  earl  of  Warwick,  to  hold  and 
Westminster,  occupy  the  office  of  steward  of  England,  now  vacant  and  in  the  king's 
hands,  in  the  processes  of  certain  acts  in  the  present  Parliament. 

By  K.  by  word  of  mouth. 

March  15.        Commission    de  walliis  ei  fossatis  to   Thomas    Echyngham,    knight, 
Westminster.    Bartholomew  Boiney,  Henry  Halle,  Robert  Oxenbrige  and  William  Baker 

on  the  coast  of  the  sea  and  marsh  from  Yham  in  the  parish  of  St. 
Leonards  to  the  lands  called  *  Cregge,*  and  the  lands  of  John  Fynche,  in  the 
county  of  Sussex. 

May  28.  The  like  to  Thomas  Burgh,  knight,  Robert  Constable,  knight,  John 
Westminster.  Neville,  Robert  Sheffeld  the  elder,  Robert  Sheffeld  the  younger,  Thomas 
Moigne,  Richard  Haunserd  of  Ouresby,  Thomas  Behvode,  Richard  Laykon, 
John  Topclyff  and  John  Tourney  in  the  Isle  of  Axiholme,  co.  Lincoln,  and 
between  Bykersdyke,  co.  Nottingham,  and  the  water  of  Done,  co.  York, 
and  on  the  confines  of  those  counties,  and  within  the  wapentakes  of  Manley, 
Yereburgh,  Coryngham,  Aslakhowe  and  Walshcrofte,  co.  Lincoln. 

May  28.  The  like  to  Ralph  Josselyn,  knight,  mayor  of  London,  Walter  Moile, 

Westminster,  knight,  John  Burcestre,  knight,  Nicholas  Gaynesford,  esquire,  John  Wode, 
Thomas  Slyfeld,  John  Elmebriggo,  John  Skynner,  Richard  Tyngelden  and 
John  Benct  on  the  shore  of  the  Thames  and  the  marsh  from  the  town  of 
Estgrewyche,  co.  Kent,  to  the  town  of  Wandsworth,  co.  Surrey,  viz.  at  the 
sluices  called  Harlescluse,  Retherhithe,  Suthwerk,  Bermondesey,  Parys- 
gardyii,  Lambehithe,  Lambehithemersh,  Batersey,  "Wandesworth,  Clopham, 
Pekham  and  Camber  well. 

July  2.  Tho  like  to  the  king's  kinsman  John,  earl  of  Northumberland,  Robert 

Westminrter.  Constable,  knight,  John  Pilkyngtop,  one  of  the  esquires  of  the  body,  John 
Vavasour,  Alexander  Lounde,  Robert  SheJSeld  the  younger,  Edward  Salt- 
mersshe,  Robert  Portyngton  the  elder  and  Leonard  Knyght  in  the  wapen- 
takes of  Herthyll  and  between  the  Ouse  and  Derwent  and  the  liberty  of 
Holdenshire,  co.  York. 

Ms^BRAyE  22d. 

March  13,  Commission  to  the  mayors  of  the  towns  of  Pole  and  "Waymouth  and 
Westminster.  Nicholas  Southcotes,  one  of  the  king's  serjeants-at-arms,  to  seize  a  vessel 
of  Talamond  in  Aquitaine  of  the  porlage  of  25  tuns,  of  which  John  Duport 
is  master,  at  present  in  the  port  of  Pole,  and  a  vessel  of  Rouen  in  Normandy 
of  the  portage  of  20  tuns,  of  which  Marciot  le  Cur,  merchant  of  Normandy, 
is  owner,  at  present  in  the  port  of  Waymouth,  both  laden  with  wines  of  the 
growth  of  the  duchy  of  Aquitaine,  and  keep  them  with  the  wines  in 
safe  custody. 

MEMDRAya  2ld. 

March  28.  Commission  to  Henry  ap  Griffith,  esquire,  John  Milewater,  esquiro, 
Westminster.  Hugh  Huntley,  Thomas  Brigi^e,  and  the  sheriff  of  Caermerden  to  enquire 
of  what  castbs,  manors,  lordships,  lands,  and  possessions  James,  late  carl 
of  Wiltshire,  was  seised  on  4  March,  I  Edward  IV.  in  tho  said  county,  and 
by  what  services,  how  much  they  are  worth  yearly,  and  who  has  received 
the  issues  thereof  from  that  day. 

The  like  to  the  escheator  in  the  county  of  Hereford, 

May  14.  Commission    to    the  king's    kinsman,  Richard,   earl   of  Warwick  and 

Westminster.  Salisbury,  constable  of  Dover  Castle  and  warden  of  the  Cinque  Ports,  or 
his  lieutenant  to  arrest  Thomas  Carpenter  of  Tenterden,  co,  Kent,  and 
bring  him  before  the  king  in  Chancery. 

F  F  2 


452  CALENDAR  OF  PATENT  BOLLS. 


1465.  Membrane  20d. 

March  30.  Commission  to  Thomas  Walgrave,  knight,  David  Mortymer,  Thomas- 
Westminster.  Higham  the  younger,  John  SuJyard,  James  Hubberd,  John  VValworth^ 
Robert  Fatehare,  and  the  sheriffs  of  Norfolk,  Suffolk,  and  Essex,  to 
enquire  concerning  all  honours,  castles,  lordships,  manors,  lands,  rents, 
reversions,  annuities,  offices,  fees,  advowsons,  fee  farms,  and  other  possessions 
held  by  James,  late  earl  of  Wiltshire,  Thomas,  late  lord  Roos,  Thomas  Danyell, 
esquire,  and  Giles  Sayntlowe,  attainted  by  authority  of  an  act  in  Parliament 
at  Westminster,  in  those  counties  on  4  March,  1  Edward  IV. 

March  20.       The  like  to  John   Whittokesmede,   Henry  Weston,   John    Swancote, 

Westminster.  Nicholas  Spicer,  William  Box,  James  Box,  and  the  sheriff*  of  Somerset  to 

enquire  concerning  all  lordships,  manors,  lands,  rents,  reversions,  annaities,. 

offices,  fees,  and  other  possessions  held  in  the  said  county  by  John  Botiller,. 

attainted  as  above. 

Membrane  ISd, 

March  9.  Commission  to  Nicholas  Soutlicotes,  one  of  the  king's  serjeants-at-arms, 

Westminster.  Williams  Trefry,  William  Hourde,  Geoffrey  Wales,  Louis  John,  John 
Spaddard,  Geoffrey  Garway,  and  the  sheriff  of  Cornwall,  to  arrest  Hugh 
Courtenay,  knight,  William  Webbe,  Hugh  Wolf,  John  Blake,  William 
jMilleward,  William  Chidley,  Walter  Colic,  clerk,  Henry  Bray  and  William 
Litelton,  and  bring  them  before  the  king  in  Chancery,  and  to  seize  all  the 
goods  and  merchandise  of  John  Dabzac  and  Bertram  de  la  Grave  of 
Gascony  and  certain  other  merchants  and  keep  them  in  safe  custody ;  as 
by  an  inquisition  taken  at  Lostwythiell,  co.  Cornwall,  on  10  September, 
1  Edward  IV.  before  Henry  Bodrugan,  esquire,  and  William  Penfoun  by 
force  of  a  commission  by  letters  patent  {see  p.  36)  to  them  and  others  it 
was  found  that  when  a  ship  called  la  Margarete  of  Brittany  was  sailing  at 
sea  on  27  March,  1  Edward  IV.  laden  with  divers  goods  and  merchandise 
of  the  said  John  Dabzac  and  Bertram  de  la  Grave  and  other  merchants 
certain  pirates  in  a  carvel  called  le  JPetir  Courtenay  came  upon  it  and 
seized  it  and  took  it  to  Fowy  and  there  despoiled  it  of  the  said  goods  and 
mfiTchandise  and  that  the  said  Hugh  Courtenay,  knight,  was  the  owner  of 
the  carvel  and  William  Webbe  the  master,  William  Chedley,  William 
Mileward,  John  Blake,  and  Hugh  Wolf  the  boatswains  {contromagistriy 
and  Hugh  Courtenay,  Walter  Colle,  clerk,  Henry  Bray  and  William 
Litelton  the  victuallers  of  it,  and  the  said  John  Dabzac  and  Bertram  de  la 
Grave  have  represented  that  they  have  as  yet  had  no  restitution  of  the 
ship,  goods  or  merchandise. 

Membrane  l^d, 

April  24.         Commission  to  Thomas  Dowriche,  John   Orcharde,  John  Bignelde  and 
Westminster.  John  Goldesuy  to  enquire  concerning  the  lands  held  by  Thomas,  Jate  earl  of 

Devon,  and  James,  laie  earl  of  Wiltshire,  in  the  counties  of  Devon,  Cornwall, 

Somerset  and  Dorset  on  4  March,  1  Edward  IV. 

April  4.  The  like  to  Thomas  Byllyng,  Robert  Ingleton,  Edmund  Brudnell,  Thomas 

WestminBter.   Hampden,  Richard  Foweler,  Thomas  Kokes,  Paul  Darell  and  the  sheriff  of 

Buckingham  to  enquire  concerning  the  lands  held  in  that  county  by  James, 

3ate  carl  of  Wiltshire,  on  4  March,  1  Edward  IV.  and  by  Thomas,  late  earl  of 

De^oii,  and  Thomas,  late  lord  Roos,  on  30  December,  39  Henry  VI. 


Membrane  9d. 


April  4.  The  same. 

Westminiter. 


5  EDVVABD  IV.— Pabt  I.  453 


1465.  Membrane  2d. 

Nov.  23.         Commission  to  John  Fogge,   knight,  John  Scott,  knight,  and  William 

'Westminster.    Haute,  knight,  to  hear  and  determine  all  informations  laid  before  them  by 

Thomas  Ive  in  accordance  with  the  commission  to  him  beloiK'.  By  K. 

Commission  to  Thomas  Ive  to  enquire  by  oath  of  good  men  of  the  city  and 
liberty  of  London  and  the  counties  of  Middlesex,  Surrey  and  Kent  concerning 
all  persons,  as  well  denizens  as  strangers  and  aliens,  who  have  carried  woob, 
wool-fells,  lead  and  other  merchandise  of  the  staple  out  of  the  realm  or  from 
place  to  place  within  the  realm  contrary  to  the  form  of  the  ordinances  or 
statutes  or  have  otherwise  oflfended  against  these  ordinances  and  statutes,  to 
search  all  places^  houses,  mansions,  galley's,  ships  and  vessels  in  which 
wools  or  otlier  merchandise  of  the  staple  may  be  illegally  hidden  and  to 
seize  such  merchandise  and  all  other  goods  of  the  persons  in  whose  hands 
they  are  and  to  arrest  the  offenders,  to  lay  informations  before  the  mayor  of 
any  staple  or  his  ministers  or  any  other  persons  appointed  by  the  king,  and 
to  certify  from  time  to  time  in  the  Chancery  or  Exchequer.  By  K. 

Commi  ssion  to  John  Fog,  knight,  treasurer  of  the  household,  to  take  a 
moiety  of  the  above  forfeitures  and  sell  the  same  and  deliver  the  moneys  to 
the  king,  the  other  moiety  having  been  granted  to  the  said  Thom^  Ive  by 
letters  patent.  By  K« 


454 


5  EDWAED  IV.— Pabt  II. 


1465.  Membrane  33. 

March  25.        Inspeximus  and  confirmation  to  the  dean  and  canons  of  the  chapel  or 
Westminster,  college  of  St,  Stephen,  Westminster,  of  letters  patent  dated  1  December,. 
37  Henry  VI.  being  a  grant  to  them,  in  furtherance  of  a  grant  by  Edward 

III.  that  they  shall  have  goods  of  felons,  fugitives  and  outlaws  within 
their  lands  and  poesessions  and  all  fines  and  amercements,  and  that  they 
shall  be  quit  of  all  aids,  subsidies,  contributions  and  tallages  and  all  tenths, 
fifteenths  and  other  quota  granted  by  the  clergy  or  the  commons  of  the 
realm ;  and  grant  to  them  that  they  shall  be  quit  of  all  debts  and  accounts 
due  to  the  king  from  4  March,  1  Edward  IV.  by  reason  of  any  tenth  or 
fifteenth,  and  shall  enjoy  all  the  aforesaid  liberties  and  acquittances, 
notwithstanding  non-user.  By  K. 

Membrane  32. 

July  2.  Grant  to  the  king's  brother  George,  duke  of  Clarence,  and  the  heirs  of  his 

WestminBter.  body  of  the  manor  and  lordship  of  Helagh,  co.  York,  with  its  members,  and 
twenty  messuages,  300  acres  of  land,  20  acres  of  meadow,  100  acres  of  moor,, 
three  water-mills  for  corn  and  a  fulling  mill  in  Tadcastre,  co.  York,  sixteen 
messuages  in  the  city  of  York,  theadvowsons  and  patronages  of  the  priory  of 
Helagh,  the  abbey  of  Sannyngtwhait,  the  church  of  St.  Mary,  Castelgate,  and 
two  chantries  called  *  Holmes  Chauntnes '  in  the  church  of  Castelgate,  the 
manors  and  lordships  of  Spofford,  Lynton,  Semar,  Thrustanby  and  Poklyng- 
ton,  with  the  soke  of  Poklyngton  and  twenty  messuages,  300  acres  of  land,  80 
acres  of  meadow,  20  acres  of  pasture  and  100  acres  of  moor  in  Tadcastre,  the 
manor  and  lordship  of  Tadcastre  with  its  members  and  the  advowsons  and 
patronages  of  the  abbey  of  Salley,  the  abbey  of  Feryby,  the  churches  of 
Spofibrd,  Kirkeby  Overblowers  and  Donyngton  and  a  chantry  at  the  altar  of 
St,  Katharine  in  the  parish  church  of  Tadcastre,  co.  York,  the  manor  and 
lordship  of  Calceby  with  its  members  and  30  acres  of  land  in  Malberthorpe 
called  *  Moyneslandes,'  co.  Lincoln,  the  manor  and  lordship  of  Eoston 
with  its  members,  co.  Leicester,  the  manor  and  lordship  of  Iselham  with 
its  members,  co.  Cambridge,  and  the  manor  and  lordship  of  Cratfeld  with 
its  members,  co.  Suffolk,  late  of  Henry,  late  earl  of  Northumberland,  the 
manors  and  lordships  of  Nuthyll,  Busston  and  Sutton  with  their  members 
in  Holdernes,  co.  York,  late  of  Antony  Nuthill,  knight,  the  manor  and 
lordship  of  Wragby  with  its  members,  co.  Lincoln,  late  of  Thomas,  lord 
Boos,  the  manor  and  lordship  of  Suthkjme  with  its  members,  co.  Lincoln^ 
late  of  William  Talyboys,  knight,  and  the  manors  and  lordships  of  Slapton, 
Northam,  Londay  and  Clifton  Dertemoth  Hardnesse,  co.  Pevon,  Kynges- 
ton  by  Ilchestre,  Somerton  Erleigh,  Bathereston,  Shokerwyke,  Pensford, 
Belewton,  Ext  on  and  Brene,  co.  Somerset,  and  Haselbere,  Maperton, 
Childefrome,  Wroxhall,  Tolre  Porcorum  and  Netherkencombe,  co.  Dorset, 
with  their  members,  late  of  James,  late  earl  of  Wiltshire,  in  the  king's  hands 
by  reason  of  an  act  in  Parliament  at  Westminster,  4  November,  1  Edward 

IV.  17/.  7*.  Id.  yearly  from  Michaelmas  last  from  the  fee  farm  of  the  city 
of  York  at  the  hands  of  the  sheriff  and  bailiffs  of  the  city,  which 
Thomas,  lord  Boos,  son  and  heir  of  Thomas  de  Boos,  knight,  used  to 
receive  as  parcel  of  a  yearly  rent  of  100/.  from  the  said  fee  farm,  in  the 

.^  king's  hands  by  reason  of  the  said  act,  the  reversion  of  9/.  6s.  2\d,  yearly 
from  the  paid  fee  farm,  pnrcel  of  the  said  yearly  rent  of  100/.,  the  manor 


5  EDWARD  IV.— Part  !!•  45  6 


1465.  Membra  ne  32 — cont. 

of  Harum  by  Helmeslej  and  two  parrs  of  the  manor  ofBooi»,  co.  York^ 
on  the  death  of  Eleanor,  duchess  of  Somerset,  late  the  "wife  of  Ihe  said 
Thomas  Roos,  knight,  late  lord  of  Koos,  lately  belonging  to  the  said 
Thomas  Boos  the  son,  lord  of  Boos,  the  reversion  of  73/.  6s,  8c/.  yearly, 
parcel  of  the  said  yearly  rent  of  100/.  the  castle  and  manor  of  Hamelak 
alias  Helmesley  and  the  third  part  of  the  manor  of  Boos,  co.  York,  on 
the  death  of  Marjory,  lady  of  Boos,  who  holds  the  same  for  life  of  the 
endowment  of  John,  late  lord  of  Boos,  her  husband,  lately  belonging  to 
the  said  Thomas,  lord  Boos,  the  son,  the  reversion  of  the  manors  and 
lordships  of  Lekyngfeld,  Nafferton,  Catton,  Hnndmanby,  Kirkeleveuton, 
Lethley,  Scorburgh,  Erghus,  Wandesford,  Preston,  SetylJ,  Ghglyswyk  and 
Oletop  with  their  members,  co.  York,  on  the  death  of  Eleanor,  countess  of 
Northumberland,  late  the  wife  of  Henry  Percy,  sometime  earl  of  North- 
umberland and  father  of  the  late  earl,  the  reversion  of  five  messuages  and 
400  acres  of  pasture  in  Westwalton,  co.  York,  on  the  death  of  Guy  Faire> 
fax,  who  holds  them  for  life  of  the  demise  of  the  said  earl  the  father,  lately 
belonging  to  the  said  earl  the  son,  and  the  reversion  of  the  manors  of 
Barton  and  Stuton,  co.  Lincoln,  on  the  death  of  Katharine,  duchess  of 
Norfolk,  who  holds  the  same  for  life  of  the  grant  of  the  king  by  letters 
patent,  with  knights'  fees  and  parts  of  knights'  fees,  advowsont,  courts 
leet,  views  of  frank-pledge,  hundreds,  wapentakes,  waifs,  strays,  return 
of  wi4ts  and  execution,  wards,  marriages,  reliefs,  escheats,  fairs,  markets, 
parks,  chaces,  warrens,  fisheries,  wreck  of  sea,  treasure  trove  and  all  other 
profits,  liberties  and  franchises,  and  all  Issues  from  4  March,  1  Edward  IV. 

ByK. 

June  12.        Mandate  to  the  escheator  in  the  counties  of  Devon  and  Cornwall  for  the 

Westminster,   restitution  of  the  temporalities  of  the  bidhopric  of  Exeter  to  John,  whom 

the  pope  has  appointed  bishop  of  Exeter  in  the  place  of  George,  late  bishop, 

translated  to  the  church  of  York.     [Foedera,'}  By  p.s. 

The  like  to  the  escheators  in  the  following  counties  : — 

Southampton. 

Surrey  and  Sussex. 

Middlesex. 
Writ  de  intendendo  in  pursuance  to  the  tenants. 

June  17.        Mandate  to  the  escheator  in  the  county  of  York  for  the  restitution  of 
Westminster,  the  temporalities  of  the  archbishopric  of  York  to  George,  late  bishop  of 
Exeter,  whom  the  pope  has  appointed  archbishop  of  York.     [FoederaJ] 

By  p.s. 

The  like  to  the  escheators  in  the  following  counties: — 

Northumberland. 

Nottingham  and  Derby. 

Lincoln. 

Oxford. 

Middlesex. 

Gloucester  and  the  marches  of  Wales  adjacent. 
The  like  to  the  mayor  and  escheator  in  the  town  of  Eyngeston  on  Hull. 
The  like  to  the  mayor  and  escheator  in  the  city  of  York. 
Writ  de  intendendo  in  pursuance  to  the  tenants. 

July  29.         General  pardon  to  Nicholas  Tempest  of  BraseweU,  co.  York,  *  gentihoian.' 
Westminster.  By  K. 

The  like  to  Richard  Tempest  of  BraseweU,  co.  York,  knight.  By  K. 

Membrane  31. 

May  28.         Pardon  to  Roger  Ree,  sheriff  of  the  county  of  Hertford,  for  the  esei^s 
Westminster,  from  Hertford  gaol  of  Avice  Dawney  the  wife  of  Peter  Dawney  of  Nortbawep 


456  CALENDAR  OF  PATENT  ROLLS. 


1465.  Membrane  31 — cont. 

CO.  Hertford, '  huswiff,'  who  was  charged  before  the  justices  of  the  peace  in 
the  county  of  Hertford  with  having  on  Friday  before  St.  Andrew, 
4  Edward  IV.  broken  the  close  of  Philip  Mery  at  Northawe  armed  with 
sticks  and  knives  and  stolen  13  sheep  w^orth  20s,  \Od,y  and  was  found 
guilty  before  William  Yelverton,  knight,  and  John  Wyrrall,  justices 
Appointed  to  deliver  Hertford  gaol,  on  Monday  after  St.  Chad  last,  but  was 
remitted  to  the  said  gaol  on  her  pleading  that  she  was  pregnant,  which  was 
ibund  true  by  a  jury  of  women,  and  of  Roger  (or  Richard)  Wayte  late  of 
Braughyng,  co.  Hertford,  *  mynstrell,'  who  was  committed  to  the  said  gaol 
before  the  Eaid  justices  of  gaol  delivery  on  the  said  Monday,  on  bis  plea 
that  he  was  to  be  indicted  in  the  couit  of  King's  Bench  for  divers  felonies. 

By  p.s. 

May  30.  Exemption  for  life  of  John  Treguran  from  being  put  on  assizes,  juries, 

Westminster,   recognisances,  attaints  or  inquisitions  and  from  being  made  bailiff,  sheriff 

eschcator,  coroner,  constable  or  collector  of    tenths,  fifteenths  or  other 

subsidies  against  his  will,  and  grant  that  no  officer  or  minister  of  the  king 

shall  take  any  of  his  merchandise  or  goods  against  his  wil).  By  K. 

June  29.         Grant  for  life  to  Richard  Bele,  Robert  Oldum  and  John  Gyles  of  the 

Westminster,   scrutiny  and  supervision  of  all  '  berebrewer.i '  within  the  realm  in  manner 

specified.     (^See  p.  75.)  By  p.8. 

Vacated  by  surrender  and  cancelled  because  on  23  September^  11 
Edward  IV.  the  king  by  letters  patent  granted  the  said  office  to  John 
Gyles  and  William  and  John  Niccollfor  life, 

July  4.  Revocation  of  the  protection,  with  clause  volumtis  for  one  year,  granted 

Westminster.  17  May  last  by  letters  patent  to  John  Blossom  J  ate  of  Hadley  Castel,  co. 
Essex  '  yoman,'  alias  John  Blossnme,  '  maryner/  going  on  the  king's 
service  in  the  company  of  the  king's  kinsman  Richard,  earl  of  Warwick  and 
Salisbury,  captain  of  the  town  of  Calais,  on  the  safe  custody  and  victualling 
of  the  town,  because  he  delays  on  his  own  business  in  the  town  of  West- 
minster and  elsewhere  in  the  county  of  Middlesex,  as  John  Tate  and  John 
Stone,  sheriffs  of  London  and  Middlesex,  have  certified. 

July  9.  Grant  for  life  to  William   Kene,  king's  esquire,  that  nothing  shall  be 

Westminster,  taken  of  the  corn,  hay,  straw,  wood,  horses,  oxen,  sheep,  pigs,  fowls,  rabbits, 
waggons  or  other  goods  and  chattels  or  carriages  of  himself  or  his  tenants* 
servants  or  farmers  by  the  purveyors  or  buyers  of  the  household,  and  that 
no  officer  or  minister  of  the  household  shall  lodge  within  his  manors  or 
houses.  By  K. 

Feb.  15.  Grant  to  the  king's  tenants  and  residents  within  the  borough  or  town  of 

Westminster.   Wendover,  co.  Buckingham,  of  two  fairs  yearly  at  the  feasts  of  St.  Matthew 

and  SS.  Philip  and  James  ;  and  confirmation  to  them  of  a  market  weekly 

on  Thursdays  and  other  liberties.    By  K.  and  for  20s,  paid  in  the  hanaper. 

Vacated  because  in  the  fourth  year. 

Membrane  30. 

June  5,  Grant  to  the  king's  servant  Walter  Rufford  and  the  heirs  male  of  his 

Westminster,  body  of  a  moiety  of  the  manor  or  lordship  of  Homcastell  alias  Overhamme, 
CO.  Worcester,  with  all  liberties,  franchises,  courts  leet,  views  of  firank- 
pledge  and  other  appurtenances  late  of  I'homas  Cornewaill,  esquire, 
attainted  of  high  treason  by  an  act  in  Parliament  at  \7estminster, 
4  November,  1  Edward  IV.  not  exceeding  the  value  of  10  marks  yearly, 
and  a  fourth  patt  of  the  said  manor  or  lordship  late  of  William  Vaux, 
kiiight,  attainted  as  above,  not  exceeding  the  yearly  value  of  5  marks,  in 
the  king's  hands  by  their  forfeitures,  to  hold  the  same  by  the  services  of 
as  many  knights'  fees  and  other  rents  and  services  as  they  were  held  bjr 


6  EDWARD  IV.— Part  II.  457- 


1465.  Membrane  30 — cont, 

before  4  March,  1  Edward  IV.  with  all  issues  from  that  date,  in  lieu  of  a 
like  grant  to  him  of  the  same  bj  letters  patent,  surrendered.  By  K. 

May  28.  Grant  to  Henry  Pierpount,  esquire,  and  the  heirs  male  of  his  body  of 
Westminster,  the  third  part  of  the  manor  or  lordship  of  Staveley  or  Staley  with  the 
advowsons  of  a  third  part  of  the  church  and  a  third  part  of  the  chantry 
there,  co.  Derby,  late  of  John,  lord  Clyfford,  and  in  the  kings  liands  by 
reason  of  an  act  in  Parliament  at  Westminster,  4  November,  1  Edward  IV. 
by  pretext  of  which  he  was  at  tainted  of  high  treason,  not  exceeding  the 
value  of  20  marks  yearly,  to  hold  the  same  with  courts  leet,  views  of  frank- 
pledge, parks,  warrens,  chaces,  fisheries  and  other  commodities  by  the 
services  of  as  many  knights'  fees  and  other  rents  and  services  as  they  were 
held  by  before  4  March,  I  Edward  IV.  and  all  issues  from  that  date. 

By  p.s. 

June  4.  Pardon  to  Richard  West  late  of  Bradwater,  co.  Sussex,  knight,  son  of 

Westminstir.  Keginald  West,  lord  de  la  Warre,  knight,  and  Michael  Denys  of  OfPyngton, 
CO.  Sussex,  '  gentilraan,'  alias  Michael  Deneys  of  Brodewater,  of  all  accounts 
of  the  issues  of  all  manors,  lordships,  lands  and  other  possessions  of  which 
the  said  Richard  was  seised  and  which  now  belong  1o  the  king  by  reason  of 
any  outlawry  against  him  and  all  goods  aud  chattels  forfeited  in  like 
manner.  By  p.s. 

April  20.         Grant  for  life  to  Brian  Talbot,  esquire,  of  the  manor  of  Newton  in  the 

WestmiDster.  Wellowes  alias  Neutonkyme,  co.  York,  with  the  advowson  of  the  church 

there,  not  exceeding  the  value  of  24/.  yeai-ly,  late  of  William  Taylbos, 

knight.  By  p.8. 

June  12.         Grant  for  life  to  Thomas  Croxton  and  Thomas  Vynter  of  the  offices  of 
t  Westminster,  coroner  and  attorney  of  the  king  in   the  King^s   Bench,   receiving   the 

accastomed  fees  at  the  Excheqaer  and  all  other  profits  in  lieu  of  a  like 
grant  of  the  same  to  the  said  Thomas  Croxton  by  letters  patent  dated 
1  July,  1  Edward  IV.  surrendered.  By  K, 

Juno  13.         Commission  to  the  king's  kinsman   Edmund,  earl  of  Kent  and  lord  of 

Westminster.   Ruthyn,  of  authority  to  receive  into  the  king's  allegiance  and  pardon  all 

rebels  within  the  king's  castle  of  Hardlagh  and  county  of  Merionnyth  in 

North  Wales  on  the  day  of  the  delivery  to  him  of  the  said  castle  and 

county.  Bj  p.8. 

June  25.         Licence  for  the  prior  and  convent  of  the  monastery  of  Mochelnye  to 
Westminster,  elect  an  abbot  in  the  place  of  Thomas  Pippe,  deceased. 

July  2.  Grant  to  the  king's  servitor  Henry  Abyndon  of  40  marks  yearly  from 

Westminster.  Michaelmas  last  from  the  issues  of  the  county  of  Wilts  for  the  provision  of 

clothing  and  other  necessary  apparel  of  the  boys  of  the  chapel  of  the  king's 

household  and  for  their  instruction  and  governance,  so  long  as  he  shall  have 

the  said  provision,  instruction  and  governance.  By  p.s. 

July  10.         Grant  for  life  to  the  king's  servitor  James  Pemberton  of  a  house  or  plot 
Wettminster.   and  16  acres  of  land  in  Eltham  called  '  Corby  n  Hall,'  the  said  house  or  plot 
being  ruinous  and  not  exceeding  the  value  of  26^.  yearly. 

Julys.  Mandate  to  all  to  permit  Peter  Cros,  'baxster,'  bom  in  the  town  of 

Wentminster.   Hunflete  iu  the  parts  of  Normandy,  dwelling  at  HotofY,  co.  Lincoln,  who 

has  taken  an  oaUi  of  fealty,  to  inhabit  the  realm  peaceably  and  enjoy  his 

goods.  By  p.8. 

July  12.  Revocation  of  the  protection  with  clause  volumus,  for  one  year,  lately 
Wettmmster.  granted  by  letters  patent  to  Edward  Coryton  late  of  Westneweton  by 
Luffeton  in  the  parish  of  St.  Mellion  (/Sanc^*3/t/am>;,co.  Cornwall,  esquire, 
alias  Edward  Coryngton, '  gentilman,'  going  on  the  king*R  service  in  the 
company  of  John  Wode,  king's  escjuire,  victualler  of  the  town  and  castle  of 
Calais  and  the  marches  adjacent,  on  the  safe-custody,  defence  and  victualling 


458  CALENDAR  OF  PATENT  ROLLS. 


1465.  Membrane  30 — cont, 

of  the  same  in  the  parts  of  Ficardy,  because  he  delajo  at  Westneweton  on 
his  own  business,  as  appears  bj  certificate  of  the  sheriff  of  Cornwall. 

July  10.         Ratification   of  the  estate  which  Richard  Holdych  has  as  prior    or 
Westniinster.   warden  of  the  hospital  of  SS.  Giles  and  Anthony  by  Wilton,  co.  Wilts. 

By  p.s. 

July  10.  General  pardon  to  John  Boswell  late  of  London,  chaplain.  By  K. 

Westminster. 

Membraxb  29. 

July  1.  General  pardon  to   John   Tebbe    of    the  town    of   Westminster,  co. 

\VeKtmin8ter.  Middlesex,  '  yoman,'  alias  late  of  Brenchesle,  co.  Kent,  *  yoman,'  alias  of 

Blechyngle,  co.  Surrey,  *  yoman,'  alias  late  of  London,  *  yoman,'  for  all 

offences  committed  by  him  before  23  June  last.  By  p.s. 

June  27.  Grant  to  John  Howard,  king's  knight,  and  his  heirs  and  assigns  of  the 
Westminster,  manors  of  Leyham  alias  Overberyhatl  in  Ley  ham  and  Whersted,  co. 
Suffolk,  and  Smethtonhall,  co.  Essex,  ]ate  of  James,  late  earl  of  Wiltshire,  the 
manors  of  Dontyssh  and  Deuelyssh,  co.  Dorset,  late  of  Nicholas  Latymer, 
knight,  the  manor  of  Hereford,  co.  Norfolk,  late  of  Thomas  Danyell  late  of 
Resyng,  co.  Norfolk,  esquire,  and  the  manor  of  Meyton  Hall,  co.  Norfolk, 
late  of  Giles  Seyntlowe  late  of  London,  esquire,  with  knights'  fees,  advow- 
sons,  views  of  frank-pledge,  liberties,  fairs,  markets^  warrens  and  all  profits, 
belonging  to  the  king  by  reason  of  an  act  of  forfeiture  by  authority  of 
Parliament  at  Westminster,  4  NoTcmber,  1  Edward  IV.  against  the  said 
James,  Nicholas,  Thomas  and  Giles,  and  confirmation  to  him  and  his  heirs 
and  assigns  of  two  messuages  or  tenements,  one  in  the  parishes  and  lanes  of 
St.  Martin  Orgar  and  St  Michael,  Crokedlane,  and  the  other  in  the  said 
lane  of  Crokedlane  in  the  parish  of  St.  Margaret,  Crokedlane,  London, 
which  he  holds  of  the  grant  of  the  king  by  letters  patent  dated  1 1  May, 
2  Edward  IV.  with  all  issues  from  the  above  from  4  March,  1  Edward  IV. 

ByK 

July  4.  Grant  for  life  to  John  Dixon,  chaplain,  of  the  free  chapel  within  the 

Westniinster.  king's  castle  and  town  of  Newcastle  on  Tyne,  void  by  the  death  of  the  last 

incumbent,  with  all  accustomed  profits.  By  p.s. 

July  4.  Grant  for  life  to  John,  lord  of  Duddeley,  knight,  of  100/.  yearly  from 

Westminster.  Easter  last  fi*om  the  great  and  petty  custom  and  the  subsidy  in  the  port  of 

Southampton  and  all  ports,  places  and  creeks  adjacent.  By  p.s. 

March  17.  Grant  to  the  king's  kinsman  Ralph,  lord  of  Graystok,  knight,  and  the 
Westminster,  heirs  male  of  his  body  of  the  manors  and  lordships  of  Storthwayte,  Gar  ton 
and  Melburne,  co.  York,  with  their  members,  worth  60/.  yearly,  and  the 
advowson  or  patronage  of  the  priory  of  Kirkeham,  co.  York,  worth  nothings 
and  the  manor  of  Ravensthorp,  co.  York,  worth  35/.  yearly,  the  custody  of 
which  was  granted  by  letters  patent  dated  5  November,  1  Edward  IV.  to 
Robert  Danby  and  Thomas  Wytham,  chancellor  of  the  Exchequer,  for  20 
years  from  Michaelmas  then  last  past  at  a  rent  of  26/.  IBs,  4d.  yearly,  with 
a  toft  and  a  bovate  of  land  in  Boltby,  co.  York,  late  of  John  son  of  William 
de  la  Boure,  worth  2^.  yearly,  and  the  said  26/.  13^.  4d.  and  all  issues  and 
arrears  of  the  above  premises  from  3  March  before  the  said  5  November, 
and  pardon  to  the  said  Ralph,  Robert  and  Thomas  of  all  accounts  for  the 
same.  By  p.8. 

Vacated  by  surrender  and  cancelled  because  the  king  granted  the  above  I 

to  him  and  the  heirs  male  of  his  body  by  other  letters  patent  on  30  | 

November^  8  Edward  IV. 

July  3.  Pardon  to  Jerome  Monelesso  for  his  offence  in  having  on  15  May  sold 

Westminster.   300  pipes  or  *  buttys '  of  sweet  wine,  viz.  58  pipes  of  *it  yre '  and  242  pipes 


5  EDWAKD  IV.— Part  II.  46^ 


2465.  Membrane  29 — cont, 

x>f  '  malvesey/  of  which  he  was  possessed  at  London  in  the  parish  of  St. 
Dunstan  in  the  ward  of  the  Tower,  without  being  gauged  to  Robert  Sjmson 
of  London,  ^  draper,'  for  500  marks  sterling  in  money  and  for  90  woollen  cloths^ 
of  the  value  of  1,000  marks,  contrary  to  the  form  of  the  statutes,  which 
wines  were  accordingly  seized  for  the  king's  use  as  forfeited  on  31  May  by 
John  Williamson,  deputy  of  Ralph  Josselyn,  mayor  of  the  city  of  London,, 
ganger  in  the  same  city,  as  the  said  Jerome  is  an  alien  who  has  but  lately 
come  to  England  from  foreign  parts  and  does  not  fully  understand  the 
statutes ;  and  grant  to  Marino  Dandolo  of  all  the  forfeitures  of  the  said 
wines  and  the  wines.  By  p.s. 

July  4.  Presentation   of  Richard   Strother,   chaplain,  to   the  parish  church   of 

Westminster.   Byssley,  in  the  diocese  of  Winchester. 


Membrane  28. 

June  26.         Licence,  for  ten  marks  paid  in  the  hanaper,  for  David  ap  Javan,  parson 

Westminster,   of  the  church  of  Acton  Bornell,  and  William  Tagge,  parson  of  the  church 

of  Norton  in  Hales,  to  grant  the  manor  of  Areley,  co.  Stafford,  held  in 

chief,  to  Thomas  Littylton,  William  Cumberford,  Humphrey  Sal  way,  Guy 

Wccstcote  and  Robert  Chetelton  and  the  heirs  of  the  said  Thomas. 

June  29.  Pardon  to  William  Clareley  late  of  Chesterton,  co.  Warwick,  chaplain, 
Westminster,  of  his  outlawry  in  the  county  of  Warwick  for  not  appearing  before 
Thomas  Ferrers,  knight,  Henry  Boteler  and  Thomas  Moston,  justices  of 
the  peace  in  that  county,  to  answer  for  divers  trespasses,  he  having 
surrendered  to  prison,  as  Richard  Byngham,  one  of  the  justices  of  the 
peace,  has  certified. 

June  22.         Licence  for  William  Moncure,   chaplain,  born  in    Scotland,   to  dwell 
Westminster,  within  the  realm  of  England  as  a  faithful  subject  of  the  king  and  to  accept 
and  be  instituted  to  ecclesiastical  benefices  below  the  dignity  of  a  deanery. 

ByK. 

June  29.         Appointment,  during  good  behaviour,  of  Thomas  Vagban,  esquire  of  the 

Westminster,  body,  as  treasurer  of  the  king's  chamber  and  master  of  the  king's  jewels^ 

receiving  the  accustomed  fees.  By  p.s. 

June  4.  Inspeximu*  and  confirmation  to  the  prioress  and  nuns  of  Kilhourn  of 

Westminster,  letters  patent  dated  20  December,  27  Edward  III.  exempting  them  from 
tenths,  fifteenths,  taxations,  tallages  and  other  quota.     \^Moiuisticon,'] 

For  10^.  paid  in  the  hanaper. 

June  16.  Pardon,  for  10  marks  paid  in  the  hanaper,  of  the  trespass  in  the  acqui- 
Westmiuster.  sition  for  life  without  licence  by  Philippa  Bronghton,  now  deceased,  late 
the  wife  of  John  Dynham,  knight,  deceased,  from  John  Dynham,  John 
Copleston  and  John  Halshangcr,  clerk,  now  deceased,  and  Thomas  Gylle^ 
who  still  survives,  a  carucate  of  land  in  Crofton,  co.  Somerset,  held  in 
chief  by  knight  ser^'ice,  and  the  manor  of  Fenotery,  co.  Devon,  held  in  chief 
by  the  rent  of  4/.  4^.  Sd,  yearly  at  the  Exchequer  at  the  hands  of  the  sheriff 
of  Devon,  with  remainder  to  the  said  John,  John,  John  and  Thomas  and 
their  heirs. 

June  21,  Licence  for  John  Norbury,  esquire,  kinsman  and  heir  of  John  Norbury, 
Westminster,  viz.  son  of  Henry  Norbury,  knight,  son  of  the  said  John,  to  enter  freely 
into  all  lordships,  manors,  lands  and  possessions  with  knights'  fees,  advowsona 
and  other  appurtenances  which  came  into  the  hands  of  Heniy  VI.  or  of 
the  present  king  by  the  death  of  the  said  John  the  elder  or  of  Elizabeth, 
lady  Say,  his  wife,  and  are  now  in  the  king's  hands,  and  which  ought  to 
descend  to  him,  and  to  retain  the  same  in  fee  \  saving  the  homage  and 
fealty  due.  By  p.s. 


460  OALENDA.R  OF  PATENT  ROLLS. 


]^4g5^  Membrane  28 — cont. 

July  8.  Exemption  for  life  of  John  Chisehull,  esquire,  on  account  of  his  great 

W'xjsiminster.  services  to  the  king  and  his  old  age  and  infirmity,  from  being  placed  or 
impanelled  against  his  will  on  any  assizes,  attaints,  juries,  recognisances, 
inquisitions  or  certifications,  and  from  being  made  escheator,  coroner, 
justice  of  the  peace,  oyer  and  terminer  or  gaol  delivery,  inquisitor,  sheriff, 
assessor  or  collector  of  subsidies,  fifteenths,  farms,  rents,  prests,  scutages  or 
aids  or  other  officer  or  minister  of  the  king.  By  p.s. 

July  8.  General  pardon  to  William  Thomson  of  Overe,  co.  Cambridge,  alias 

Westminster.   William  Thomanson  late  of  Overe,  alias  William  Sutton,  *  yoman,'  of  all 

offences  committed  by  him  before  6  July.  By  p^. 

Oct.  25.  Presentation  of  William  Neuhous,  chaplain,  to  the  church  or  chapel  of 

Westminster.   Lamana,  in  the  diocese  of  Exeter. 


Membrane  27. 

July  25.  Acceptance  of  the  nomination  by  the  prior  of  St.  Fancras,  Lewes,  of  tho 

Westminster.  Cluniac  order,  of  John  Stratton  as  prior  of  the  priory  of  Farlegh,  of  the 

same  order,  of  the  foundation  of  the  late  earl  of  Hereford  and  now  in  tho 

king's  patronage,  void   by  the  resignation   of  John  Brugge,  last  prior, 

according  to  the  custom. 

July  2Q,  Grant  for  life  to  James  Damport,  one  of  the  king's  serjeants-at-arms,  of 
Westminster.  \2d,  daily  from  Michaelmas  last  from  the  issues  of  the  county  of  Wilts  in 
lieu  of  a  like  grant  to  him  from  the  issues  of  the  king's  lordship,  manor  and 
hundred  of  Odyharo,  co.  Southampton,  by  letters  patent  dlated  7  July, 
1  Edward  IV.  surrendered  because  he  has  had  no  payment  from  thence 
since  the  said  Michaelmas.  By  p.s. 

Mandate  in  pursuance  to  the  sheriff  of  Wilts. 

July  17.  Grant  to  Humphrey  Bourchier,  knight,  lord  Cromwell,  and  tho  heirs 

Westminster,  male  of  his  body  from  4  March,  I  Edward  IV.  from  which  date  he  has 
held  the  same,  of  the  offices  of  constable  of  the  king's  castle  of  Notyngham, 
porter  or  keeper  of  the  gate  of  the  custle,  steward  and  keeper  of  the  forest  of 
Shirwode,  and  keeper  of  the  king's  parks  of  Beskewode  and  Clypston  and 
woods  of  Billowe,  Birkeland,  Rumwode,  Ouseland  and  Fulwode,  co.  Not- 
tingham, all  herbage,  agistment  and  pannage  of  the  said  parks  and  the  said 
woods  of  Bilwode,  Birkeland,  Bumwode,  Ouseland  and  Fulwode,  the  king's 
mills  of  Notyngham  called  '  the  Castellmylnes,'  the  king's  rivers  of  Trent 
and  Lene  in  the  town  of  Notyngham  and  free  fishery  in  the  same,  all  the 
king's  meadows  below  or  by  the  castle  between  it  and  the  Trent,  called 
*  the  Castelmedowes  '  and  *  Constable  Holme,'  all  the  king's  pasture  there 
called  '  the  Conygarth  '  alias  *  the  Castell  Apilton  '  and  '  Mildam,'  three 
parcels  of  meadow  lying  on  the  bank  of  the  river  Lene  and  in  '  le  Castell 
Hilles '  and  all  other  meadows  and  pastures  that  any  constable  of  the  castle 
had  by  reason  of  his  office,  all  chattels  waived  and  strays  and  all  profits  and 
emoluments  of  cheminage  within  the  said  foi*est,  parks  and  woods  belong- 
ing to  the  king  in  any  way  by  reason  of  the  said  forest  and  castle,  all  fines, 
issues  and  amercements  of  tenants  and  residents  within  the  forest  and 
forfeitures  of  non-residents  for  non-expeditation  of  dogs  called  ^  dogsilver ' 
according  to  the  custom  of  the  forest,  and  the  office  of  one  of  the  chamber- 
lains of  the  receipt  of  the  Exchequer  or  the  office  of  one  of  the  chamberlains 
of  the  Exchequer  with  the  appointment  of  one  of  the  ushers  of  the  said 
receipt  and  all  other  officers  and  ministers  belonging  to  the  office,  to  hold 
the  above  by  fealty  only,  receiving  the  accustomed  fees  for  the  said  offices 
and  custodies.  By  K. 

July  29.  Grant  to  James  Haryngton,  king's  knight,  and  his  heirs,  for  his  good 

Westminster,  service  in  the  capture  of  Henry  VI.  of  the  castle,  manor  ind  lordship  of 


6  EDWARD  IV.— Pabt  II.  461 


1465.  Membrane,  27 — cont. 

Thurland,  all  messuages,  lands,  rents  and  services  in  the  town  of  Tunstell, 
a  park  called  '  Fayret  Whajte  Parke '  and  all  lands,  rents,  and  services  in 
the  tov^ns  or  hamlets  of  Warton,  Overborowe,  Netherborowe,  Old  Wenyng- 
ton.  Gale  and  Ergham,  co.  Lancaster,  Bentham  and  Burton  in  Lonnesdale, 
CO.  York,  and  Holme  in  Kendell,  co.  Westmoreland,  late  of  Richard 
Tunstell,  knight,  rebel,  and  in  the  king's  hands  by  reason  of  an  act  iu 
Parliament  at  Westminster,  4  November,  1  Edward  IV.  not  exceeding 
100/.  in  yearly  value,  to  hold  the  same  by  fealty  only,  rendering  the 
accustomed  rents  to  other  persons,  and  also  all  issues  from  the  same  from 
the  said  4  November.     [FoederaJ]  By  K* 

July  20.         Grant  for  life  to  the  king's  servitor  John  Browne,  yeoman  of  the  king's 

'Westminster,   kitchen,  of  the  office  of  ranger  of  the  king's  forest  of  Grovele,  co.  Wilt?, 

receiving  such  wages  and  fees  as  were  allowed  to  John  de  Knottyngle, 

ranger  in  the  said  forest,  in  the  time  of  Edward  III,  from  the  issues  of  the 

county  of  Wilts,  with  all  other  profits.  By  p.s. 

Aug,  21.  The  like  to  William  Cheyne  of  the  office  of  bailiff  of  the  king's  stannary 
Westminster,  of  Penwith  and  Kerye,  co.  Cornwall,  with  all  tribulage  within  the  said 
stannary  and  all  other  accustomed  profits,  without  rendering  any  account 
to  the  king,  provided  that  he  render  an  account  of  the  issues  and  profits 
of  the  pleas  of  the  court  of  the  stannary  yearly  at  the  exchequer  of  Lost- 
withiel  before  the  auditors  of  the  duchy  of  Cornwall.  By  p.8. 

Membrane  26. 

Sept.  23.  Licence  for  Nicholas  Carrewe,  son  and  heir  of  Thomas  Carrewe,  esquire, 
York.  deceased,  tenant  in  chief,  and  kinsman  and  heir  of  Nicholas  Carrewe, 
knight,  and  Joan  his  wife,  tenants  in  chief,  deceased,  viz.  son  of  the  said 
Thomas  their  son,  to  enter  freely  without  proof  of  age  or  livery  out  of  the 
king's  hands  into  all  lordships,  manors,  lands,  fee  farms,  annuities,  rents, 
reversions^  services,  knights'  fees,  advowsons,  views  of  frank-pledge,  courts 
leet,  hundreds,  liberties,  franchises,  privileges,  offices,  fairs,  markets,  parks, 
woods,  warrens,  chaces,  fisheries,  wreck  of  sea  and  all  other  profits  and 
possessions  of  which  the  said  Thomas,  Nicholas  and  Joan  were  seized  and 
which  deeended  to  him  on  their  death,  because  the  king  has  been  satisfied 
of  his  marriage  by  Joan  Dyaham,  widow,  to  whom  it  was  granted  on 
1  February,  1  Edward  IV.  by  letters  patent,  and  because  he  is  of  full  age  as 
was  found  by  an  inquisition  taken  before  Thomas  Gille,  late  escheator  in 
the  county  of  Devon,  on  Saturday  after  St.  Laurence,  4  Edward  IV.  at 
Bukyngton  Loges,  co.  Devon ;  saving  to  the  king  his  homage  and  fealty, 
and  saving  the  dower  of  Joan  late  the  wife  of  the  said  Thomas  Carrewe. 

By  p.s. 

Aug.  10.  Grant  to  Thomas  Gray,  one  of  the  esquires  of  the  body,  and  thii  heirs 
Westminster,  male  of  his  body  of  the  manor  of  Crawden  in  Crawden,  Clopton,  Gilden- 
mordon,  Stepilmordon,  Esthatle,  Wendey,  Amyngton,  Malketon  and 
Baryngton,  co.  Cambridge,  late  of  John  Heron  of  Forthe,  knight,  and 
William  Taylboys,  late  esquire,  both  attained  of  high  treason  by  authority 
of  Parliament  at  Westminster,  1  Edward  IV.  and  in  the  king's  hands  by 
that  cause,  to  hold  the  same  from  5  June,  2  Edward  IV.  by  the  rents  and 
services  of  as  many  knight's  fees  and  as  many  other  rents  and  services  as 
they  were  held  by  before  4  March,  1  Edward  IV.  in  lieu  of  a  grant  to  him 
of  the  said  manor,  as  an  escheat  by  the  forfeiture  of  William  Taylboys,  by 
letters  patent  dated  the  said  6  June;  and  grant  that  the  sheriff  and 
escheator  of  the  county  shall  be  quit  of  the  issues  and  profits  of  the  manor 
from  the  said  5  June.  By  p.s* 

Sept.  23,         Pardon  to  William  Sterling,  farmer,  approver,  occupier  or  receiver  of 
York.       [the  subsidy  and  ulnage  of  cloths  in  the  counties  of  Surrey  and  Sussex,  of 


462  CALENDAR  OF  PATENT  ROLLS. 


1465.  Membrane  26 — cont, 

all  issues  received  by  him  from,  the  said  subsidy  and  ulnage  from  16 
September,  2  Edward  IV.  until  the  present  date  and  all  fines,  trespasses, 
debts,  accounts  and  arrears  and  actions  for  the  same.  By  p.s. 

1466. 

Feb.  9.  Whereas  by  an  inquisition  taken  at  the  Guildhall  in  the  parish  of  St. 

Westminster.  Laurence  in  Old  Jewry,  London,  on  25  January,  24  Heniy  VI,  before 
Simon  Eyre,  then  mayor  and  escheator  of  the  city  of  London,  it  was  found 
that  John  Whitthorn  of  Dounton,  chaplain,  granted  in  mortmain  without 
licence  five  messuages  in  Old  Jewry  and  three  messuages  with  two  chambers 
appertaining  in  the  parish  of  St.  James,  Ghurlekhithe,  London,  which  he 
had  of  the  grant  and  enfeoffment  of  John  de  Gryssyngham  and  Richard 
Godechepe,  situated  between  the  church  of  St.  James,  Garlekhithe,  oii  the 
north  and  the  high  street  called  *  Temestrete '  on  the  south,  and  from  a  street 
called '  Cordewanerstrete '  on  the  west  to  a  little  lane  leading  from  Temestrete 
to  Kyrounlane  on  the  east,  and  a  messuage  in  the  parish  of  St.  Laurence 
aforesaid,  which  he  had  of  the  grant  and  enfeoffment  of  Roger  de  Forsham 
and  which  he  left  by  will  to  the  under-mentioned  chaplains  on  Monday 
after  St.  Bai^abas,  23  Edward  III.  to  certain  chaplaiDs  to  celebrate  dtvine 
service  according  to  his  ordinance  for  the  souls  of  John  de  Oxenford,  late 
citizen  and  vintner  of  London,  Walter  Neel,  Richard  Godechepe,  John  de 
Gryssyngham  and  himself  and  the  souls  of  their  parents,  relatives  and 
friends  in  the  said  church  of  St.  James,  and  that  Gilbert  atte  Leye  on  12 
May,  28  Edward  III.  left  a  messuage  with  a  garden  appertaining  in  the 
parish  of  All  Saints,  Stanyngchirche,  in  Martlane,  London,  to  the  said 
church  of  St.  James  in  mortmain  without  licence  for  the  improvement  of  a 
chantry  there  called  '  Oxenford  Chauntery  '  where  such  chantry  never  was 
before,  and  that  the  above  are  worth  10  marks  yearly  and  w^e  held  of 
Henry  YI.  in  free  burgage  and  the  said  John  and  Gilbert  died  seised  of 
the  same  in  their  demesne  as  of  fee  without  heirs,  and  the  same  were  taken 
into  the  hands  of  Henry  VI.  as  forfeited  and  are  now  in  the  king's  hands  ; 
the  king  hereby  grants  the  same  in  frank  almoin  with  the  assent  of  the 
council  to  Peter  Taster,  late  rector  of  the  said  church  of  St.  James,  with 
all  issues  from  4  March,  1  Edward  IV.  to  find  and  sustain  two  chaplains  to 
celebrate  divine  service  in  the  said  church  for  the  good  estate  of  the  king 
and  his  consort  Elizabeth,  queen  of  England,  and  for  their  souls  after  death 
and  the  souls  aforesaid.  By  p.s. 

"[455,  Membrane  2d. 

June  18.  Licence  for  the  king's  kinsman  Richard  Neville,  earl  of  Warwick,  to 

Westminster,  found  a  chantry,  to  be  called  *  Therle  of  Warrewyk  Chaunterie,'  of  one 
chaplain  to  celebrate  divine  service  daily  according  to  his  ordinance  at  the 
altar  of  St.  Mary,  in  the  parish  church  of  SS.  Peter  and  Paul,  Olney,  co. 
Buckingham,  for  the  good  estate  of  the  king  and  for  his  soul  after  death, 
and  for  the  good  estate  of  the  said  earl  and  Anne  his  consort,  and  for  their 
souls  after  death  and  the  souls  of  their  progenitors ;  and  for  the  alienation 
in  mortmain  by  him  to  the  said  chaplain  of  lands,  rents,  reversions,  services, 
annuities,  and  other  possessions  to  the  value  of  10  marks  yearly. 

By  p.s.  and  for  20  marks  paid  in  the  hanaper. 

July  31.  Grant  for  life  to  Thomas  Cotes  of  an  annuity  of  10/.  from  30  September, 

Westminster.  2  Edward  IV.  from  the  issues  of  the  county  of  Kent,  in  lieu  of  a  like  grant 
to  him  from  the  issues  of  the  manors  of  Tuderley  and  Lokerley,  co. 
Southampton,  by  letters  patent  of  that  date,  surrendered  because  invalid. 

By  p.s. 
Mandate  in  pursuance  to  the  sheriff  of  Kent. 

July  18.  Commission   to   William    Sutton,    master   of  Burton   St.    Lazarus    of 

Westminster.  Jerusalem  in  England,  Richard  Neel,  one  of  the'xi  ng's  serjeants-at-law,  John 


5  EDWARD  IV.— Part  II.  463 


14s65.  Membrane  25 — cont. 

Pulteney,  esquire,  and  Robert  Stauntoa  to  enquire  into  the  petition  of  John 
abbot  of  the  monastery  of  St.  Mary,  Leicester,  that  whereas  the  monastery 
was  founded  in  frank  almoin,  time  out  of  mind,  by  Robert  Melan,  sometime 
earl  of  Leicester,  and  Richard,  then  abbot,  held  it  quit  of  corrodies  and 
sustenances  to  be  granted  at  the  request  of  any  king  of  England  in  time  of 
peace  in  the  time  of  Edward  II.  and  the  patronage  of  the  monastery  came 
into  the  hands  of  Henry  III.  by  the  forfeiture  of  Simon  Mountford,  late 
earl  of  Leicester,  patron  of  the  monastery  as  kinsman  and  heir  of  the  said 
Robert  Melan,  viz.  son  of  Amy,  sister  of  Robert,  son  of  Robert  Blaunch- 
mayns,  son  of  Robert  Bossu,  son  of  Robert  Melan,  because  the  said  Simon 
waged  war  against  the  king  at  Evesham,  co.  Worcester,  on  4  August,  49 
Henry  III,  and  was  there  killed  on  the  field,  and  thence  descended 
successively  to  Edward  I.  Edward  II.  Edward  III.  and  Richard  II.  and 
finally  to  the  present  king  as  kinsman  and  heir  of  Richard  II.  viz.  son  of 
Richard  son  of  Anne  sister  of  Edmund  son  of  Philippa  daughter  of  Lionel 
brother  of  Edward  father  of  Richard  II.  and  all  the  abbots  held  the 
monastery  quit  of  corrodies  and  sustenances  until  the  said  Richard,  then 
abbot,  and  the  convent  at  the  special  request  of  Edward  III.  granted  to  one 
John  de  la  Sale,  such  sustenance  in  their  house  for  life  as  William 
Pavylloner  had,  who  served  all  his  days  in  the  monastery,  and  in  considera- 
tion of  such  service  in  his  old  age  had  a  competent  sastenance  granted  to  him 
without  request  of  any  king,  viz.  one  white  loat  of  miche  bread,  one  loaf  of 
black  bread,  one  gallon  of  the  better  ale,  and  service  of  the  kitchen  as  one 
of  the  free  servants  daily,  a  robe  yearly  of  the  suit  of  the  free  servants  at 
Christmas  or  lOs,  of  silver  for  the  same,  and  a  chamber  in  the  abbey,  and 
afterwards  by  letters  patent  dated  8  January,  3  Edward  III.  the  king 
granted  that  |his  should  not  be  to  their  prejudice,  nevertheless  after  the 
death  of  the  said  John  de  la  Sale,  alias  John  atte  Hall,  Thomas  Tedyngworth 
and  Robert  Sadeller  successively  had  corrodies  at  the  request  of  Edward 
III.  and  Henry  Chandelier  and  Joan  his  sister  and  John  Pakeman  and 
Margaret  his  wife  at  the  request  of  Richard  II.  whereby  the  abbot  and 
convent  are  liable  to  find  such  corrody  at  the  request  of  the  present  king, 
unless  he  do  justice  to  them  in  this  behalf. 

Aug.  26.  Grant  to  the  king's  consort  Elizabeth,  queen  of  England,  for  the  better 
^Vestxnin8te^.  maintaintenance  of  the  king's  kinsman  Henry,  duke  of  Buckingham,  and 
Humphrey  his  brother,  who  are  minors  and  in  the  king's  custody  and  have 
for  some  time  be^n  maintained  at  her  expense,  of  500  marks  yearly  during 
their  minority  from  the  issues  of  the  king's  lordships  of  Brokenok,  Newport, 
WentUoye,  Haye  and  Hunt[ingdon]  with  their  members  in  South  Wales. 

ByK. 

Mandate  in  pursuance  to  the  receivers,  bailiffs,  fiirmers,  tenants,  or  other 
occupiers  of  the  said  lordships. 

Aug.  27.        General  pardon  to  Robert  Wareyn,  *  surgeon.'  By  p.s. 

Westminster. 

Membrane  24. 

Aug.  28.  Inspexinws  and  confirmation  to  John  Stodard,  the  master,  and  Gilbert 
Westminster.  Kays,  William  Parker,  John  Swan,  and  Robert  Walthewe,  the  wardens  of 
the  fraternity  of  tailors  and  armourers  of  St.  John  Baptist  in  the  city  of 
London  of  letters  patent  dated  24  February,  18  Henry  VI,  inspecting  and 
confirming  with  additions  to  John  Locock,  then  master,  and  Nicholas 
Blome,  John  Stone,  Thomas  White,  and  William  Eiiotte,  then  wardens, 
letters  patent  dated  2  August,  9  Henry  IV.  inspecting  and  confirming  with 
additions  to  Thomas  Sutton,  then  master,  and  John  Wenlok,  Thomas 
Wilby,  Adam  Feriby,  and  Ralph  Shoklach,  then  wardens,  letters  patent 
dated  30  July,  14  Richard  U.  inspecting  and  oonfirming  with  additions 


• 


•  •. 


•         •     •      m  *    m% 

•  •       •  •    • 


%  •'  "•'  • 


464  CALENDAR  OP  PATENT  ROLLS. 


1465.  Membrane  24~co»^ 

letters  patent  dated  6  February,  16  Edward  IIF.  being  an  exemplification 
of  letters  patent  dated  10  March,  1  Edward  III. 

By  K.  for  10/.  paid  in  the  hanaper. 
[Herbert's  History  of  the  Livery  Companies^  vol,  ii.  p,  520.} 

Sept.  3.  Grant  to  the  king's  consort  Elizabeth,  queen  of  England,  for  the  better 

Grantham,  maintenance  of  the  king's  kinsman  Henry,  dnke  of  Buckingham,  and 
Humphrey  his  brother,  who  are  minors  and  in  the  king's  custody  and  have 
for  some  time  been  maintained  at  her  expense,  of  the  king's  lordships  of 
Brekenok,  Haye,  and  Hunt[ingdon]  with  their  members  in  South  Wales, 
with  adw)W8ons,  wards,  marriages,  courts,  hundreds,  liberties,  views  of 
frank-pledge,  reliefs,  escheats,  forfeited  chattels,  waifs,  strays,  and  other 
emoluments,  and  100/.  yearly  from  the  issues  of  the  king's  lordship  of 
Neuport  in  South  Wales,  to  hold  the  same  from  Easter  last  during  the 
minority  of  the  said  duke  and  Humphrey.  By  K. 

Mandate  in  pursuance  to  the  farmers  or  other  occupiers  of  the  said 
lordship  of  Neuport. 

Aug.  6.  Grant  for  life  to  William  Staveley  and  his  assigns  of  the  money  of  bills 

Westminster,  of  aliens,  levied  within  the  town  of  Calais,  for  his  good  service  to  the 
king  for  the  space  of  fiteen  years  within  the  said  town  and  at  sea,  and 
because  he  has  lately  been  severely  wounded  in  the  company  of  the  king's 
kinsman  Richard,  earl  of  Warwick,  in  resisting  the  Spanish  and  their 
carracks.  By  K. 

Membrane  23. 

Aug.  27.  Grant  for  life  to  the  king's  servant  Richftrd  Sapcot,  knight,  and  Isabel 
Westminster,  his  wife,  for  his  good  service  to  the  king's  father  Richard,  late  duke  of 
York,  and  the  king,  of  two  tuns  of  wine  yearly  in  the  port  either  of  Bishop's 
Lynn,  Ipswich,  or  Kyngeston  on  Hull  at  the  hands  of  the  chief  butler, 
and  a  buck  in  summer  and  a  doe  in  winter  in  the  king's  park  called  ^  Clyf 
Park,'  CO.  Northampton,  and  the  same  in  the  king's  park  called  *  la  greit 
park '  of  Briggestoke,  co.  Northampton.  By  p.8. 

Aug.  16.  Grant  to  Thomas  Vaghan,  one  of  the  esquires  of  the  body,  and  his  heirs 
Westminster,  and  assigns,  for  his  good  service  to  the  king  and  his  father  Richard,  late 
duke  of  York,  in  prosperity  and  adversity,  and  because  he  aforetime  paid 
to  the  king  1,000/.  of  the  manors  and  lordships  of  Kyngessnoth  and  Milton, 
CO.  Kent,  66  acres  of  land  in  Kyngessnoth,  and  the  manors  and  lordships 
of  Shapwyk  and  Egle,  co.  Sussex,  late  of  Thomas  Broun,  knight,  attainted 
of  high  treason  at  the  hands  of  Henry  VI.  and  in  the  king's  hands  by  his 
forfeiture,  with  knight's  fees,  advowsons,  courts  leet,  views  of  frank  pledge, 
wards,  marriages,  reliefs,  escheats,  fairs,  markets,  parks,  warrens  and  all 
liberties  and  franchises ;  grant  to  him  and  Eleanor  his  wife,  late  the  wife 
of  the  said  Thomas  Broun,  and  the  heirs  of  their  bodies  of  the  manors  and 
lordships  of  Eythorne,  Morehall,  Brikhill  and  Moryse  and  the  aldermanship 
or  office  of  alderman  of  Westgate  m  Canterbury,  co.  Kent,  the  castle, 
manor  or  lordship  of  Westbeches worth,  co.  Surrey,  the  manor  of  Chankton, 
CO.  Sussex,  a  messuage  with  a  wharf  and  other  appurtenances  near 
Byllyngesgate,  six  messuages  in  Lymestrete  with  gardens  and  edifices, 
six  messuages  with  a  wharf  and  other  appurtenances  in  the  Vintry,  and 
five  tenements  with  edifices  in  Knyghtryderstrete  in  the  parish  of  St.  Benet, 
London,  the  manors  and  lordships  of  Halton,  Colkyns,  Caldeham,  Alkeham, 
Hersthall,  Ballarst  and  Wilmeston,  with  the  advowson  of  the  perpetual 
chantry  of  St.  Mary,  Burley,  in  the  parish  of  Cherryng,  the  manors  and 
lordships  of  Maystyrse,  Westbere,  Godwell,  Wymbelissh  Wold,  Barston, 
Tyd,  Dene  in  Thanet  and  Archerescourt,  the  manors  or  tenements  called 
Hertanger,  Deyncourt,  Pawnassh  and  Dyngleyse,  the  manors  or  lordships 


*•-  V 


5  EDWARD  IV.— Part  II.  4(55 


1465.  Membrane  28 — corU, 

of  Yffjng,  Wylmeston,  "Pyrye  and  Shillyngheld,  h  messuage  in  Osprenge, 
a  windmill  in  Barston,  a  piece  of  marsh  in  Dele,  three  messuages  in 
Canterbury,  three  messuages  and  6  acres  of  wood  in  Harbaldowne,  a 
messuage  in  MaUyng,  three  messuages  in  Lidde,  a  windmill  in  Whitstaple, 
a  messuage  in  Graveshende,  a  piece  of  land  in  Maidstone,  a  messuage  in 
Godmersham,  a  piece  of  land  called  *  Qenteles '  in  the  parish  of  Aldyngton, 
a  messuage  called  *  Cokeryng '  in  the  parish  of  Tenyngton,  a  messuage  in 
Graveshende,  a  tenement  in  Tenham,  a  tenement  in  Halden,  and  a  tene-. 
ment  with  32  acres  of  land  in  Upchirch,  co.  Kent,  five  messuages  in  Dorkyng, 
a  tenement  called  *  Mymmys/  a  piece  of  land  called  *  Flusshlond,'  a  piece 
of  land  in  Estbechesworth,  a  meadow  called  *  Bladynfreden,'  a  parcel  of 
land  called  '  Benham,'  a  parcel  of  land  called  *  Whityng '  and  a  messuage 
'called  Me  Place,'  co.  Surrey,  the  manors  and  lordships  of  Compton,  West- 
merden,  Estbornn,  Foxhunt  and  Walstede,  a  meadow  called  *  Litilworth,' 
a  messuage  called  *  Morfotys,'  six  messuages  in  Rye  aud  twelve  messuages 
and  100  acres  of  land  in  Wynchelse,  co.  Sussex,  the  manors  and  lordships 
of  Drayton,  Chaungton,  Passheley,  Wynde  and  Shira  with  the  hundred  of 
Waldern  aud  the  park  of  Ywode,  in  the  counties  of  Surrey  and  Sussex,  the 
manor  and  lordship  of  Boroughunt  and  three  messuages  in  the  county  of 
Southampton,  aud  all  other  lands,  rents,  reversions  and  possessions  late  of 
the  said  Thomas  Broun  and  in  the  king's  hands  as  above,  with  the  exception 
of  the  manors  or  lordships  of  Swannescompe  and  Erehith,  co.  Kent,  all 
other  lands  late  of  the  king's  father  Richard,  late  duke  of  York,  and  the 
manors  of  Tonsford  and  Dane,  co.  Kent,  to  hold  by  the  same  services  as 
the  said  Thomas  Broun  held  them  before  the  said  forfeiture,  with  knights' 
fees,  advowsons,  wards,  marriages,  reliefs,  esclieat^s,  courts  leet,  views  of 
frank-pledge  and  all  other  liberties,  profits  and  commodities  ;  and  grant  to 
him  of  all  issues  from  the  above  from  the  time  of  the  forfeiture  of  the  said 
Thomas  Broun.  By  K. 

Aug.  10.  Grant,  during  pleasure,  to  the  mayor  and  barons  of  the  town  of  Sandwich 
Westminster,  that  they  may  ship  40  sacks  of  wool  yearly  in  carracks,  galleys  or  other 
vessels  to  take  to  Italy  by  the  straits  of  Marrok  quit  of  all  customs,  subsidies 
or  other  moneys  due  to  the  king,  provided  that  the  moneys  arising  from 
the  latter  which  would  otherwise  belong  to  the  king  be  expended  together 
with  201.  yearly  to  be  provided  by  themselves  on  the  walls  and  fortifications 
of  the  town  and  the  entrance  to  the  port  by  the  supervision  and  advice  of 
John  Fogge,  knight,  and  John  Scot,  knight;  in  lieu  of  a  grant  to  them 
of  100/.  yearly  from  the  customs  and  subsidies  of  all  merchandise  in  the 
port  of  Sandwich  by  letters  patent  dated  8  December,  I  Edward  IV. 
surrendered.  By  p.s. 

Aug.  29.         Grant  for  life  to  Bartholomew  Ruvers,  knight,  of  60/.  yearly  at  the 
Westminster,  receipt  of  the  Exchequer.  By  p.s. 


Membrane  22. 

March  29.  Inspeanmus  and  confirmation  to  the  people  of  the  islands  of  Gernesey, 

Westminster.  Serk,  and  Aureneye  of  the  following  : — 

1.  Letters  patent  dated  10  November,  2  Richard  II.  inspecting  and  con- 

firming letters  patent  dated  10  July,  15  Edward  III.  confirming 
their  ancient  prinleges  and  liberties. 

2.  Letters  patent  dated  28  July,  18  Richard  II.  granting  that  they  shmll 

be  quit  of  all  tolls,  exactions  and  customs  in  all  cities,  towns, 
markets  and  ports  within  the  realm  of  England  in  the  same 
manner  as  the  king's  subjects  of  that  realm. 

iCor  20i,  paid  ^  *^®  hanaper. 

u    $€9X4.  O  O 


466  CALENDAR  OF  PATENT  ROLLS. 


J  465.  Membrane  22~conf . 

July  14.         Pardon  to  Robert  Rufford,  esqqire,  late  one  of  the  collectors  of  the 

Westmixister.  custom  of  wools,  hides  and  wool- fells  in  the  port  of  London^.a/to^  one  of  the 

collectors  or  castomers  of  the  great  custom  in. the  saidpojrt  and  all  ports 

and  places  adjacent,  of  all  offences  committed  by  him  and  all  debts  and 

accounts  due  from  him  to  the  king.  By  p.s. 

July  10.  Grant  for  life  to  John  Sayvile,  knight,  of  the  herbage  of  the  king's 

Westminster,    new  park  of  Wakefeld,  not  exceeding  the  yearly  value  of  12/.  By  p.s. 

June  20.         Presentation  of  Roger  Ivery,  parson  of  the  parish  church  of  Midlyngton, 
/Vcstmiiister.   in  the  diocese  of  Lincoln,  to  the  parish  church  of  Pertynhale,  in  the  same 
diocese,  on  an  exchange  of  benefices  with  John  Barres. 

July  15.  Grant  to  Richard  Salkeld,  esquire,  and  the  heirs  male  of  his  body  of  the 

Westminster,  lordship  and  manors  of  Papcastre,  Caldebek,  Uldale,  Whitehall,  Atpatrik 
and  Wigton,  and  the  pasture  and  wood  called  '  le  Westwarde '  with  all 
towns,  members,  lands,  rents,  services,  meadows,  feedings,  pastures,  woods, 
waters,  stanks,  and  fisheries  belonging  to  them  between  the  rivers  of  Darwent 
and  Caldeoo,  co.  Cumberland,  with  advowsons,  knights'  fees,  courts  leet, 
warrens,  chaces,  liberties  and  all  other  profits,  in  the  king's  hands  by  reason  of 
the  forfeiture  of  Henry,  earl  of  Northumberland,  and  by  virtue  of  an  act  of 
Parliament  at  Westminster,  4  November,  1  Edward  IV.  to  hold  the  same 
by  the  services  of  as  many  knights'  fees  and  as  many  other  rents  and 
services  as  they  were  held  by  before  4  March,  1  Edward  IV .  rendering  to 
the  king  20/.  yearly ;  and  pardon  to  him  of  all  issues  and  sums  of  money 
received  by  him  from  all  lordships,  manors,  lands,  rents,  reversions,  services, 
meadows,  feedings,  pastures  and  woods  lying  between  the  said  rivers,  late 
of  the  said  earl,  granted  to  him  by  letters  patent  on  26  February, 
1  Edward  IV.  By  p.s. 

April  16.  Grant  to  Robert,  lord  Ogle,  knight,  and  the  heirs  male  of  his  body  of 
Wdstminster.  the  lordship  and  liberty  or  franchise  of  Reddisdale  and  the  castle,  manor 
and  borough  of  Biurbotell  within  the  said  liberty,  with  all  royalties,  fran- 
chises, liberties,  lands,  rents,  reversions,  fees,  possessions,  services^  escheats, 
patronages,  advowsons,  views  of  frank-pledge  and  other  things  belonging 
to  the  same  in  the  county  of  Northumberland,  late  of  William  Taylboys, 
knight,  and  in  the  king's  hands  by  reason  of  his  forfeiture  and  by  force  of 
an  act  in  Parliament  at  Westminster,  4  November,  I  Edward  lY,  not 
exceeding  the  yearly  value  of  66/.  13^.  4c/.,  to  hold  by  the  services  of  as 
many  knights'  fees  and  as  many  other  rents  and  services  as  they  were 
held  by  before  the  first  day  of  March,  1  Edward  IV.  By  p.s. 

April  3.  Grant  for  life  to  the  king's  servitor  Thomas  Rede  of  the  office  of  one  of 

Westminster,  the  foresters  in  the  king's  forest  of  Bemewode  from  10  December, 
1  Edward  IV.  since  which  date  he  has  exercised  the  office,  receiving  such 
wages  as  were  allowed  in  the  time  of  Edward  III.  from  the  issues  of  the 
counties  of  Cambridge  and  Huntingdon,  with  arrears  from  the  said  10 
December  and  other  profits.  By  p.s. 

Aug.  8.  Licence,  for  half  a  mark  paid  in  the   hanaper,  for  James  Strangways, 

Westminster,  knight,  Richard  Strangways,   knight,    his   son,   John   Conyers,    knight, 

Marjory  his  wife  and  John  Conyers  their  son  and  heir  to  grant  to  Thomas 

Waryn,  James  Corre,  Nicholas  Edmond  and  Robert  Tobyn,  chaplains,  and 

their  heirs,  the  manors  of  Garieston  and  Lowyth  in  Ireland,  held  in  chief. 

ByK. 

Aug.  8.  Appointment,  during  pleasure,  of  John  Cornewaleys,  late  chief  baron  of 

Westminster.  Exchequer  in  Ireland,  as  one  of  the  justices  of  the  Common  Bench  in 

Ireland,  without  receiving  anything  from  the  king.  By  K. 

Aug.  13.         Presentation   of  William    Toilette,  chaplain,   to  the   parish  church   of 
Westminster.   Hadley,  in   the  diocese   of  Loudon,  void   by  the  resignation  of  Robert 
Sten^o^^aplain,  last  parson  there. 


5  EDWARD  IV.— Fart  II.  467 


1465.  ilRMBRANE  21. 

Aug.  28.         Grant  for  life  to  the  Vix\f^^  councillor  William  Noiingbam  of  a  yearly  rent 

Westminster,  of  40/.  viz.  20/.  from  the  burgesses  of  the  town  of  Gloucester  as  of  the  fee 

farm  of  that  town  or  borough  and  20/.  from  the  abbot  and  convent  of  St. 

Peter,  Gloucester,  as  of  the  fee  farm  of  the  manor  of  la  Berton  by  Gloucester 

with  the  weir.  By  p.s. 

July  29.  Licence  for  the  appropriation  in  mortmain  by  John,  the  abbot,  and  the 
Westminster,  convent  of  the  monastery  of  St.  Peter,  Chertesey,  which  is  of  the  founda- 
tion of  the  king's  progenitors  and  of  the  king's  patronage,  of  the  church  of 
St.  Andrew,  Cobeham,  co.  Surrey,  which  is  of  their  own  advowson  and  is 
held  in  chief,  pro^'ide(l  that  a  perpetual  vicarage  be  endowed  there  and  a 
competent  sum  from  the  issues  of  the  church  be  distributed  yearly  among 
the  poor  of  the  parish  by  the  diocesan  of  that  place  according  to  the  form 
of  the  statute.  By  K. 

Aug.  28.  Appointment  for  life  of  the  king's  kinsman  Edmund  Grey,  earl  of  Kent, 
Westminster,  as  chief  justice  of  the  couuty  of  Meryonnyth  in  North  Wales  with  full 
power  of  doing  in  that  county  all  that  pertains  to  the  office  of  justice  in 
North  Wales,  and  grant  that  during  his  life  the  county  shall  be  distinct  and 
separate  from  the  power  and  jurisdiction  of  the  justices  of  North  Wales. 
Grant  to  him  also  for  life  of  the  office  of  constable  of  the  king's  castle  of 
Hardelagh  in  the  same  county,  with  power  to  appoint  and  remove  all 
stewards,  sheriffs,  cscheators,  coroners,  bailiffs,  reeves,  foresters,  ringilds 
and  other  officers  and  ministers  of  the  king  within  the  said  county,  receiving 
2QL  13*.  ^d,  yearly  for  himself  and  4c/.  daily  for  each  of  the  twenty-four 
soldiers  staying  on  the  safe-custody  of  the  castle  and  all  other  profits  and 
emoluments  belonging  to  the  offices  of  constable  of  the  castle  and  chief 
justice  of  the  county.  By  p.s. 

March  28.  Grant  for  life  to  the  king's  servitors  William  Rylond,  William  Claybroke 
Westminster,  and  Thomas  Gilbert,  for  their  good  services  to  the  king's  father  and  the 
king,  of  a  tenement  or  plot  called  ^  Kosehalegarth '  in  Waterfulforth  by 
York,  otherwise  called  Boss  Halle  in  the  parish  of  Waterfulford,  co.  York, 
with  all  lands,  meadows,  pastures,  woods  and  other  commodities,  late  of 
Thomas  Eose,  late  lord  of  Bose  or  Boos,  late  of  Helmesley,  co.  York, 
rebel,  in  the  king's  hands  by  reason  of  his  forfeiture  and  by  virtue  of  an 
act  of  Parliament  at  Westminster,  4  November,  1  Edward  IV.  and  by 
force  of  an  inquisition  lately  taken  before  the  escheator  in  the  county  of 
York,  to  hold  the  same  from  the  time  of  the  forfeiture  of  the  said  Thomas 
Bose  by  the  services  of  as  many  knights'  fees  and  as  many  other  rents  and 
services  as  they  were  held  by  before  1  March,  1  Edward  IV.  and  grant  to 
them  of  all  issues  from  the  time  of  the  said  forfeiture.  By  p.s. 

June  30.         Grant  to  James  Stanley,  clerk,  of  the  custody  of  the  temporalities  of  the 

Westminster,  bishopric  of  St.  Asaph,  in  the  king's  hands  by  reason  of  the  rebellion  of 

Thomas,  late  bishop,  from  the  death  of  Bichard  Cauneton,  to  whom  the 

custody  was  lately  granted,  so  long  as  they  remain  in  the  king's  hands. 

[Fiedera.]  By  p.8. 

Sept.  2.  Licence,  for  SSs.  4c/.  paid  in  the  hanaper,  for  Godfrey  Hylton,  esquire, 

Westminster.  Bichard  Thymol  by,  esquire,  John  Machee  and  William  Mondsou,  chaplain, 
to  grant  eleven  messuages,  two  tofts,  3  acres  and  35  bovates  of  land,  10^  acres 
of  meadow,  20  acres  of  marsh  and  20c/.  rent  in  Nocton  and  Dunston,  co. 
Lincoln,  held  in  chief,  with  the  exception  of  one  acre  of  land,  to  Thomas 
Kirkeby,  clerk,  Thomas  Wymbyssh,  Thomas  Fitz  William  the  younger, 
John  Wymbyssh,  John  Eyleston  and  William  Golson  and  their  heirs  and 
assigns. 

Aug.  28.         Licence,  for  5  marks  paid  in  the  hanaper,  for  William  Grey,  bishop  of 

Westminster.  Ely,  Nicholas  Clopton  and  Edmund  Bnidenell  to  enfeoff  William  Aston, 

esquire,  and  Isabel  Clederowe^  daughter  of  Elias  Clederowe,  esquire,  and 

the  heirs  of  their  bodies  of  the  manor  of  Somerton,  co.  Oxford,  and  the 

oo  2 


4(58  CALENDAR  OF  PATENT  BOLLS.  | 

I 

1465*  Membrane  21 — cont. 

advowson  of  the  church  of  Somerton,  held  in  chief,  with  remainder  to  the 
right  heirs  of  the  said  William  Aston. 

Sept.  24.         Presentation  of  Hichard  Morland  to  the  parish  church  of  Ajkton,  in  the 
York.        diocese  of  Carlisle,  void  by  the  death  of  John  Marsshall,  last  parson. 

Sept.  24.  Presentation   of  John  Smjnmaugh,  chaplain,  to  the  parish  church  of 

York.        Wanton,  in  the  diocese  of  Winchester,  void  by  the  resignation  of  Richard 
Morland,  last  parson. 

Sept.  26.         Mandate  to  all  bailiffs  and  others  to  permit  John  Blake,  bom  in  the 

York.        town  of  Mancarston  in  Scotland,  dwelling  in  the  town  of  Ratheby,  co. 

Lincoln,  who  has  taken  an  oatli  of  fealty,  to  inhabit  the  realm  peaceably 

and  enjoy  his  goods.  By  p.s» 

Membrane  20. 

July  11.  Grant  to  Richard  Welles  of  Wylloughby,  knight,  and   his  heirs  and 

Wefttminster.  assigns  of  the  manors  and  lordships  of  Welles,  Granesby,  Bradley,  Aby, 
Skendelbj^  Wy  thern,  Conyngesholme  and  Hello  we,  a  toft  and  50  acres  of 
land  in  Gowesell,  two  <x>ttages,  30  acres  of  land,  5  acres  of  meadow,  40 
acres  of  pasture  and  255.  2d,  rent  in  Comberworth  called  *  Scotneyfee '  and 
the  advowsons  of  the  churches  of  Anderby,  Nethertynton  and  Ansthorpe, 
CO.  Lincoln,  a  messuage  with  a  garden  adjacent,  four  cottages  and  a  toft  in 
the  county  of  the  city  of  Lincoln,  and  the  manor  and  lordship  of  Elyngton, 
CO  Northumberland,  late  of  Leo,  lord  of  Welles,  and  in  the  king's  hands  by 
force  of  an  act  in  Parliament  at  Westminster,  4  November,  1  Edward  IV. 
and  all  other  lands  and  possessions  late  of  the  said  Leo  in  those  places,  to 
hold  the  same  with  knights'  fees,  advowsons,  wards,  marriages,  reliefs, 
escheats,  courts  leet,  views  of  frank -pledge,  parks,  warrens,  chaces,  fairs, 
markets,  wreck  of  sea  and  all  other  liberties,  franchises  and  free  customs  by 
the  services  as  many  knights'  fees  and  as  many  other  rents  and  services  as 
they  were  held  by  before  1  March,  1  Edward  IV.  with  issues  from  the 
death  of  the  said  Leo ;  and  grant  to  him  and  his  heirs  of  the  reversion  on 
the  death  of  Margaret,  duchess  of  Someraet,  of  the  manors  of  Faxton,  co. 
Northampton,  and  Wiberton  and  Manby  by  Grymolby,  co.  Lincoln,  and  all 
lands  and  possessions  in  the  towns  and  territories  aforesaid  which  she  holds 
lor  life  of  the  livery  of  Robert  Mowetor,  clerk,  Robert  Sheffeld,  Thomas 
Moigne,  William  Edlyngton,  and  Robert  Forman  to  herself  and  the  said  Leo, 
which  reversion  belonged  to  Richard  Welles,  Roger  Faucombregge, 
Richard  Waterton  and  John  Stayndrop  for  the  use  of  the  said  Leo  and  his 
heirs  and  is  now  in  the  king's  hands  by  virtue  of  the  act  aforesaid,  to  hold 
the  same  as  above.  By  p.s. 

Oct.  2;^  Mandate  to  all  bailiffs  and  others  to  permit  John  Gybson,  bom  in  Scot- 

Westmmster.  land,  dwelling  at  Swyneshed,  co.  Lincoln,  who  has  taken  an  oath  of  fealty^ 
to  inhabit  the  realm  peaceably  and  enjoy  his  goods. 

Oct.  24.         Pardon  to  John  Nayler,  late  of  London,  esquire,  alias  *  gentilman,'  of  all 

Westminster,  forfeitures  of  goods  and  chattels  lately  belonging  to  him,  belonging  to  the 

king  by  reason  of  his  forfeiture.  By  p.B. 

Oct.  28.  Grant  for  life  to  John  Clerk,  chaplain,  keeper  of  the  king's  chantry  in  le 

Westminster.  Charnell  within  the  town  of  Scardeburgh,  co.  York,  founded  by  Richard 

II.  of  6  marks  yearly  ior  his  sustenance  from  Michaelmas,  4  Edward  IV, 

from  the  fee  farm  of  the  town  of  Scardeburgh  and  the  farm  of  the  manor  of 

Wallejgrave.  By  p.s. 

Mandate  in  pursuance  to  the  bailiffs  of  the  town. 

Oct  28.  General  pardon  to  Thomas  Rust  the  younger  late  of  Heriettesham,  co. 

Westminrter.  Kent,  *  laborer,'  alias  Thomas  Rest,  *  husbondeman,'  alias  *  ryper,*  of  all 

offences  committed  by  him  before  16  October  and  all  abjurations  of  the 

realm  and  subsequent  entry  therein.  By  p.s. 


6  EDWARD  IV.— Past  H.  4«9 


1465.  Membrane  20 — cont» 

Nov.  8.  Grant  to  Master  William  Westburj,  king's  clerk,  of  the  prebend  of  tbe 

WestBiinster.  king's  free  collegiate  chapel  of  SS.  Marj,  Stephen  and  Edward  the  Con- 
fessor within  the  palace  of  Westminster  void  hj  the  resignation  of  Master 
John  Faukes.  Bj  E. 

Mandate  in  pursaance  to  the  dean  of  the  chapel. 

Nov.  9.  Grant  to  William  Hastyuges  and  Thomas  Vaghan,  esquire,  of  the  pre- 

Westminster,  sentation  to  th#iiext  vacant  prebend  in  the  said  chapel.  By  K. 

July  2.  Grant  to  the  king*s  servant  John  Skelton,  esquire,  to  whom  the  king 

Weftmixister.  granted  the  office  of  constable  of  his  castle  or  lordship  of  Hadleigh  or 
Hadlej,  co.  Essex,  for  life  by  letters  patent  dated  10  August,  1  Edward  IV. 
since  which  time  he  has  occupied  the  office  but  has  received  no  wages,  of 
17/.  lis.  7d.  from  the  issues  of  the  said  castle  or  lordship  as  regard  for  his 
occupation  of  the  office  from  that  date  until  1  July,  5  Edward  IV ;  and 
grant  to  him  for  life  of  the  said  office,  receiving:  3d.  daily  from  tbe  said 
issues  at  the  hands  of  the  farmers  or  occupiers  of  the  castle  or  lordship  or 
the  sheriff  of  Essex,  as  were  allowed  to  John  Nefe,  late  constable,  in  the 
year  4  Richard  II.  By  K. 

Nov.  20.  Pardon  to  Thomas  Brig  of  Pountfret,  co.  York,  *  yoman,'  of  his  outlawry 
Weftmiiifter.  in  the  county  of  York  for  not  appearing  when  sued  with  James  Whitehede 
of  Bradford,  co.  York,  'yoman,'  before  John  Prysot  and  his  fellows, 
justices  of  the  Beneh  of  the  late  king,  to  answer  William  Gellys  on  a  plea 
that  certain  deeds  and  muniments  were  forged  witli  their  connivance  to  the 
destruction  and  disturbance  of  his  possession  and  title  of  certain  lands  and 
tenements  in  Bradford  ;  the  said  Thomas  having  surrendered  to  the  Flete 
prison,  as  Bobert  Danby,  chief  justice  of  the  Bench,  has  certified. 

Mbmbrans  19. 

Oct.  5.  Presentation  of  Bobert  Scotes,  monk  of  the  monastery  of  St.  Mary  by 

Cawood.      the  city  of  York,  to  the  priory  of  Blythe,  in  the  diocese  of  York.  By  K. 

Oct.  21.  Presentation  of  Bobert  Blanerhasset,  chaplain,  to  the  parish  church  of 

Westminster.  Beamound,  in  the  diocese  of  Carlisle,  void  by  the  resignation  of  John 
Knoblowe,  last  parson. 

Oct.  16.  Mandate  to  all  bailiffs  and  others  to  permit  Edward  Ayleward  aiias 

Westminster.  Thomam,  bom  in  the  island  of  Ferrey  under  the  allegiance  of  the  king  of 
Denmark,  dwelling  at  Crowemer,  co.  Norfolk,  who  has  taken  an  oath  of 
allegiance,  to  inhabit  the  realm  peaceably  and  enjoy  his  goods. 

March  21.  Grant  for  life  tolngelram  Leptou  of  four  messuages,  eight  bovates  of  land 
Westmioiter.  and  6  acres  of  meadow  in  Ampilforth,  co.  York,  and  all  messuages,  lands  and 
meadows  in  Ampilforth  late  of  Thomas  Roos,  late  lord  of  B(h>s,  knight, 
rebel,  and  in  the  king's  hands  by  reason  of  his  forfeiture  and  by  virtue  of 
an  act  of  Parliament  at  Westminster,  4  November,  I  Edward  IV.  and  by 
force  of  an  inquisition  taken  before  the  escheator  in  the  county  of  York,  to 
hold  the  same  from  15  September,  2  Edward  lY.  by  the  accustomed 
services,  with  all  issues  from  that  date.  By  K. 

'  Licence  for  John,  lord  le  Straunge,  son  and  heir  of  Elizabeth  Ic  Straunge, 

deceased,  late  the  wife  of  Richard,  lord  lo  Straunge,  knight,  deceased,  to 
enter  into  his  possessions.     Unfinished. 
Vacated  because  in  the  second  year, 

Oct.  28.  Grant  to  the  king's  kinsman  George,  archbishop  of  York,  chancellor  of 

Westmmster.  England,  John,  earl  of  Worcester,  Ralph,  lord  Gray  stoke,  John,  lord  le 
Scrope  of  Boltone,  William  Hastynges  of  Hastynges,  knight,  the  king's 
chamberlain,  and  Robert  Graystoke,  esquire,  of  the  manors  and  lordships  of 
Templenewsome  and  Templehirste,  co.  York,  and  4/.  yearly  of  rent  in 
Torksay,  oo.  Lincoln,  for  the  life  of  Joan,  late  the  wife  of  John,  lord  Darcey. 

BjK. 


470  CALENDAR  OF  PATENT  ROLLS. 


1465.  Membrane  19 — cont. 

May  25.  Grant  to  the  king's  kinsman  George,  bishop  of  Exeter,  Richard  Wideyile, 

Westminster,  lord  of  Ryvers,  knight,  William  Hastynges,  lord  of  Hastynges,  knight^ 
Thomas  Hunt  and  Thomas  Merton  and  their  heirs  and  assigns  of  all  the 
burgages,  lands,  tenements,  meadows,  feedings,  pastures,  rents,  reversions, 
services  and  possessions  in  the  town,  fields  and  suburbs  of  Northampton 
late  of  Thomas  Tresham,  knight,  and  in  the  king's  hands  by  reason  of  an 
act  of  forfeiture  in  Parliament  at  Westminstei^  4  November,  1  Edward  IV, 
and  a  parcel  of  meadow  called  *le  Pye'  in  the  said  town,  to  hold  by  fealty 
only,  with  all  issues  from  4  March,  1  Edward  IV.  By  K. 

Nov.  7.  General  pardon  to  Thomas  Mannyng,  clerk,  of  all  offences  committed  by 

Westminster,  him  before  26  August  last.  By  p.s. 

July  29.  Grant  to  the  king's  servant  Thomas  Tiringham,  esquire,  and  the  heirs 
Westminster,  male  of  his  body,  for  his  good  service  to  the  king  and  his  fiither  Richard, 
late  duke  of  York,  of  a  capital  messuage  in  the  parish  of  St.  Stephen's 
within  the  city  of  Norwich,  six  cottages  or  little  messuages  in  the  parish  of 
St.  Peter  Mancroft  within  the  same  city  and  15  acres  of  arable  land  in  the 
south  fields  of  the  said  city  and  county,  late  of  John  Yates  late  of  Norwich, 

*  genljlman,'  alias  *  attorney,'  and  in  the  king's  hands  by  reason  of  his  for- 
feiture and  by  virtue  of  an  act  of  forfeiture  in  the  last  Parliament  held  at 
the  palace  of  Westminster.  By  p.s. 

Nov.  5.  Revocation  of  the  protection  with  clause  volumus  for  one  year, lately  granted 

Westminster,  by  letters  patent  to  John  Forteseu  late  of  Shete,  co.  Devon,  'gentilman,' 
staying  on  the  king's  service  in  the  company  of  John  Wode,  king's  esquire, 
victualler  of  the  town  and  castle  of  Calais,  on  the  safe-custody,  defence  and 
victualling  of  the  same,  because  he  is  staying  at  Exeter,  as  John  Arundell, 
sheriff  of  the  county,  has  certified. 

Mbmbranb  18. 

Nov.  10.         General  pardon  to  Geoffrey  Mory  late  of  London,  *  yoman,'  of  all  offences 
Westminster,   committed  by  him  before  1  February,  4  Edward  IV.  By  p.8. 

Nov.  8.  Pardon  to   John  Pynnok  of  Burford    in  le  Wolde,    co.  Oxford,  the 

Westminster,  younger,  merchant  alias  *  mercer,'  of  his  outlawries  in  the  counjty  of 
Worcester  and  London  for  not  appearing  before  the  justices  of  the  Ben^h 
to  answer  Elizabeth  Norton,  prioress  of  Westwode,  touching  a  debt  of  6 
marks ;  and  to  salisfy  John  Braddyng,  *  gentilman,'  Eoger  Mille  of  London, 
*gentilman,'  and  Richard  Hay  ward,  citizen  and  mercer  of  London,  of  20/. 
which  they  recovered  against  him  and  5  marks  adjudged  to  them'  lor 
damages;  he  having  surrendered  to  the  Flete  prison  and  satisfied  the  Said 
John,  Eogtr  and  Richard,  as  Robert  Dunbj,  knight,  chief  justice  of  the 
Bench,  has  certified. 

Nov.  II.         Grant  for  life  to  John  de  la  Launde,  sometime  lord  de  la  Launde,  of  40 

Westminster,  marks  yearly  from  8  March  last  from  the  issues  of  the  counties  of  Cambridge 

and  Huntingdon,  in   lieu  of  a  like  grant  to  him  at  the  receipt  of  the 

Exchequer  by  letters  patent  dated  14  May  last,  surrendered.  By  K. 

Mandate  in  pursuance  to  the  sheriff. 

April  1.  Grant  to  John  Burgh,  esquire,  and  the  heirs  male  of  his  body  of  a  mes- 

"Westminster,  suage  or  inn  called  *  le  Swan '  in  the  parish  of  St.  Martin  in  the  city  of 

Lincolo,  a  messuage  in  the  parish  of   St.  Nichc^as  in   the  street  called 

*  Neuport '  in  the  same  city,  four  cottages  in  the  parish  of  St.  Rumwold  in  the 
same  city,  a  messuage  in  the  parish  of  St.  Mary,  Crakepole,  in  the  same 
,city  and  a  croft  in  the  street  called  *  Neuland '  in  the  same  city,  in  the  king's 
hands  by  force  of  an  act  in  Parliament  at  Westminster,  4  November, 
1  Edward  IV.  against  William  Tailboys  late  of  Southkyme,  co.  Lincoln, 

^  .  knight,  5  acres  of  land,  12  acres  of  meadow  and  6  acres  of  pasture  in 


6  EDWABD  IV.— Part  II.  471 


1465.  Membrane  18— con/. 

Spalding,  oo.  Lincoln,  3  acres  of  land,  8  acres  of  meadow  and  4  acres  of 
pastui-e  in  Pynchebek,  co.  Lincoln,  a  messuage  or  waste  tenement  in  Weston, 
CO.  Lincoln,  a  messuage,  10  acres  of  land  and  5  acres  of  pasture  sometime  of 
John  Aleyn  in  Kirton  in  Holande,  co,  Lincoln,  4  acres  of  pasture  in 
Soterton,  co.  Lincoln,  a  messuage  and  9  acres  of  land  in  Skjrbek,  co. 
Lincoln,  a  toft  or  croft  called  *  Aswolgarth,'  five  cottages  newly  built,  seven 
shops,  a  bovate  of  land,  a  capital  messuage,  a  toft,  two  parts  of  a  toft,  a 
croft,  three  shambles  and  four  shops  in  Barton  in  Lyndesej,  co.  Lincoln, 
and  two  tofts  in  Howton  by  Bekeryng,  co.  Lincoln,  late  of  Nicholas 
Tail  lour,  late  of  the  said  William  Tail  boys  and  in  the  king's  hands  by 
reason  of  the  act  aforesaid,  and  a  capital  messuage,  twenty -two  other 
messuages,  twenty  tofts,  two  bovates  of  land,  eight  shops,  four  shambles, 
seven  crofts  and  four  cottages  in  Kirton  in  Lyndesey,  a  messuage,  a  craft, 
a  garden,  two  bovates  of  land  and  10  acres  of  meadow  in  Blyton,  co. 
Lincoln,  a  messuage,  a  croft,  a  garden,  two  bovates  of  land  and  8  acres  of 
meadow  in  Laghton,  co.  Lincoln,  a  messuage,  a  croft  and  10  acres  of  land 
in  Bedebum,  co.  Lincoln,  three  cottages  or  tofts,  six  crofts,  100  acres  of 
land  and  30  acres  of  meadow  in  Aderby,  co.  Lincoln,  and  4  acres  of  land  in 
Sneterby,  co.  Lincoln,  late  of  John  Maydenwell  the  elder  late  of  Kyrton  or 
Kyrketon  in  Lyndesey  and  in  the  king's  hands  by  virtue  of  an  act  in  the 
Parliament  aforesaid,  to  hold  the  same  by  the  services  of  as  many  knights' 
fees  and  as  many  other  rents  and  services  as  they  were  held  by  before 
1  March,  1  Edward  IV,  and  all  issues  from  that  date.  By  p.s. 

Nov.  13.  Whereas  by  an  inquisition  taken  at  Bristol  on  28  July,  2  Edward  IV. 
Wcfltminster.  before  Thomas  Jonys  and  Thomas  Asshe,  coroners  in  the  town,  on  the  body 
of  Richard  Batyn  Ute  of  Bristol,  <  baker,'  found  dead  at  Bristol  on  the  Back 
Above  of  the  said  town,  by  oath  of  twelve  men  it  was  found  that  the  said 
Richard  on  Monday,  7  July,  lay  in  wait  at  Bristol  in  the  street  called 
'  Highstrete'  armed  with  swords,  sticks  and  dagger  to  kill  Robert  Meggy s  of 
Bristol,  *  pewterer,'  and  tlien  and  there  they  struck  each  other  on  the  head 
and  assaulted  each  other  and  were  separated  by  men  intervening  and  the 
said  Robert  on  the  said  day  and  place  assaulted  the  said  Richard  with  a 
knife,  worth  2c?.,  and  wounded  him  on  the  right  side  of  the  body  by  *  le 
canelbon '  and  he  lay  ill  until  the  Friday  before  St.  James  and  then  died, 
the  king  hereby  pardons  the  said  Robert  for  his  felony.  By  p.s. 

July  5.  General  pardon  to  Henry  John  late  of  the  pai'ish  of  St.  Clement  Danes 

Westminster,  without  the  Bar  of  the  New  Temple,  London,  co.  Middlesex,  « taylour/  of 

all  felonies  committed  by  him  before  4  June  last  By  p.8. 

Nov.  14.         Grant  for  life  to  John  Pesemersshe,  knight,  that  he  shall  be  one  of  the 

Westminster,  poor  knights  of  the  college  of  the  king's  free  chapel  of  St.  George  withm 

the  castle  of  Wyndesore,  receiving  such  wages  and  vesture  at  the  hands  of 

the  warden  of  the  college  as  any  of  the  poor  knights  has.  By  p.s. 

Not.  3.  Licence,  for  1  mark  paid  in  the  hanaper,  for  William  Nanseglos  brother 

Weotminster,  and  heir  of  Robert  Nanseglos  late  of  Meihewold,  co.  Norfolk,  to  grant  to 
John  Selot,  clerk,  Simon  Thomham,  William  Jenney,  serjeant-at-law, 
Robert  Willughby,  John  Heydon,  William  Essex  the  elder,  Richard 
Suthwell,  esquire,  Edmund  Clere,  esquire,  Robert  Harward,  esquire,  John 
Fyncham,  Henry  Spilman,  Roger  Philpot,  Robert  Clere  of  Stokesby,  Henry 
Heydon,  Thomas  Boleyn,  Edmund  Jenney,  Thomas  Fenne,  Edmund  Wide- 
well,  John  Pagrave  the  younger.  Miles  Widewell,  William  Essex  the 
younger  and  Robert  Ovy  of  Worstede  and  their  heirs  the  manor  of 
Burdeles  in  Skulton,  co.  Norfolk,  held  in  chief,  and  the  reversion  of  the 
third  part  of  the  manor  on  the  death  of  Ellen  late  the  wife  of  John  de  la 
Chaumbre,  father  of  George  de  la  Chaumbre. 

Nov.  16.         Grant  for  life  to  the  king's  servant  John  Roklej,  esqaire,  of  the  office  of 
Westmhister.  being  one  of   the  king's   serjeants-at-arms^   receiving   I2d.  daily   item 


472  CALENDAR  OF  PATENT  ROLLS. 


'  1466.  Membrane  18 — amt. 

1  January  last^  on  whicJi  day  lie  was  one  of  the  serjeants-at-arms,  firom  the 
issues  of  the  counties  of  Cambridge  and  Huntingdon  and  a  livery  of  the  , 

suit  of  other  seijeants  at  arms  yearly  at  Christmas  at  the  great  wardrobe.  ^ 

By  p.a. 

Membrane  17. 

Oct.  23.  Inspeximus  and  confirmation  to  the  weavers  or  webstens  of  the  city  of 

Westminster.  Lincoln  of  letters  patent  dated  9  May,  1  Richard  II.  inspecting  and  con- 
firming letters  patent  dated  23  April,  22  Edward  III,  confirming  a  grant 
by  Henry  II.  For  20«.  paid  in  the  banaper. 

Aug.  7.  Grant  to  Master  Peter  Baxter,  master  of  the  chapel  of  St.  Mary  Magda- 

Westminster.  lene,  Kyngeston  on  Thames,  of  4/.  5*.  lOd.  yearly  for  twenty  years  from 
Michaelmas  last  out  of  the  farm  of  the  town  and  any  other  farms  due  to  ibe 
king  from  serjeanties  or  otherwise  within  the  town  and  liberty,  to  be  received 
from  the  issues  of  the  town  or  the  bailiwick  of  the  same  at  the  hands  of  the 
bailiffs  or  the  sheriff  of  Surrey  and  Sussex,  for  the  relief  of  the  said 
chapel,  in  consideration  of  the  ruin  and  decay  into  which  it  has  fallen  and 
because  4/.  bs.  \0d,  yearly  rent  is  paid  to  the  bailiffs  as  parcel  of  the  farm 
of  the  town  for  payment  at  the  Exchequer.  By  p.s. 

Oct.  4.  Grant  to  William  Whelpdale  of  all  cloths  and  pieces  of  cloth  exposed  for 

Westminster,  sale  in  the  counties  of  Norfolk,  Suflblk  and  Essex,  and  the  city  of  Norwich 

not  sealed  with  the  seal  of  the  subsidy  or  ulnage  and  all  forfeitures  belonging 

to  the  king  to  the  value  of  20/.  by  way  of  regard.  By  p.s. 

Oct.  28.  Revocation  of  the  protection  with  clause  volumus  for  one  year,  granted 

Westminster,  on  11  July  la.st  by  letters  patent  to  William  White  alias  Whyte  of 
Chesterton,  co.  Warwick,  *  husbondman,*  alicis  *  drover,'  alias  *  yoman,* 
going  on  the  king's  service  in  the  company  of  Ralph  Wokeley,  esquire, 
victualler  of  the  town  and  castle  of  Calais,  and  the  marches  in  the  parts  of 
Picardy,  on  the  safe-custody,  defence  and  victualling  of  the  same,  because 
he  makes  continual  delay  at  Chesterton,  as  John  Higford  the  younger, 
sheriff  of  the  county,  has  certified. 

May  12.  Grant  for  life  to  Eleanor,  duchess  of  Somerset,  of  a  yearly  rent  of  1001. 

Westminster,   from  Michaelmas  last,  viz.  50/.  from  the  petty  custom  in  the  port  of  London 

and  50/.  at  the  receipt  of  the  Exchequer.  By  p.s. 

Oct.  29.  Pardon  to  Thomesia  late  the  wife  of  John  Gra,  knight,  tenant  for  her 

Westminster,  life  of  67  acres  of  land  and  1»/.  13*.  4d.  of  rent  in  Saitfletby  and  Somer- 
cotys,  CO.  Lincoln,  and  William  Waynllete,  bishop  of  Winchester,  William 
Darsset,  clerk,  Hugh  Pakenham,  esquire,  and  Simon  Godmanston,  cleri^ 
and  the  heirs  of  the  bishop,  to  whom  the  remainder  of  the  above  belongs 
on  her  death,  of  10/.  yearly  which  John  de  Multon,  who  was  formerly 
seised  of  the  above,  used  to  render  to  the  alien  abbot  and  convent  of  Lan- 
geneth,  who  surrendered  all  their  claim  to  the  same  to  the  said  John  Gra 
by  a  deed  dated  14  February,  5  Hemy  V.  and  also  all  arrears  due  to  the 
king ;  and  pardon  to  William  Skipwith,  knight,  late  sheriff  of  the  county, 
of  SO/,  with  which  he  is  charged  for  the  said  rent  at  the  Exchequer. 

By  p.8. 

Nov.  3.  Revocation  of  the  protection  with  clause  volumus  for  one  year, lately  granted 
Weftminster.  .  by  letters  patent  to  Thomas  Antrone  late  of  Ty wardray th,  co.  Cornwall, 
'  gentilman,'  going  on  the  king's  service  in  the  company  of  Ilalph  Wolseley, 
king's  esquire,  victualler  of  the  town  and  castle  of  Calais  and  the  marches 
in  the  parts  of  Picardy,  on  the  safe  custody,  defence  and  victualling  of  the 
same,  because  he  makes  continual  delay  at  Tywardrayth,  as  appears  by 
certificate  of  the  sheriff  of  the  county. 

Nov.  4.  Exemplification,  at  the  request  of  William  Pecche,  knight,  of  letters 

Westminster,  patent  dated  15  December  (p.  90),  granting  to  him  the  power  of  lev}'ing 


6  EDWARD  IV.— Pabt  II.  473 


2465.  Membrane  17 — cont. 

the  customs  and  toll  called  '  Sundegelt '  in  the  lordships  oi  Marke  and  Oye 
in  the  marches  of  Calais.  These  letters  hive  been  casually  lost,  as  he  has 
taken  oath  in  Chancery,  and  will  be  surrendered  if  found. 

Nov.  18.         Licence  for  Isabel  Darell,  king's  widow,  to^marry  whomsoever  she  will 
Westminster,  of  the  king's  lieges.  ^  By  p.8. 

MSMBRANB  16. 

April  22.  Grant  for  life  to  the  king's  servitors  Richard  Croft  the  younger  and 
Westminster.  Thomas  Croft,  esquires,  of  the  manor  called  Bowelles  in  Kyrtlyngton,  co. 
Oxford,  a  messuage  and  two  closes  of  land  in  Middelton,  co.  Oxford,  a 
messuage  in  Wytnay,  co.  Oxford,  two  closes  of  land  by  Wytnay,  and  15 
acres  of  land  in  the  fields  of  Wytnay,  and  the  reversion  of  a  messuage  and 
a  garden  in  the  town  and  fields  of  Wytnay  which  Joan  Bide  holds  foiHife, 
two  messuages,  23  acres  of  land  and  an  acre  of  meadow  in  Brehill,  co. 
Buckingham,  a  messuage,  two  tenements,  180  acres  of  land  and  12  acres  of 
meadow  in  Esshenden,  co.  Buckingham,  a  messuage,  40  acres  of  land  and 
12  acres  of  meadow  in  Aston  Moleyns,  co.  Buckingham,  the  manor  of 
Dodyngton  alias  Donton  with  the  advowson  of  the  church  of  Doudyngton, 
the  fourth  part  of  the  manor  of  Weston  Turvile  called  '  Whaplodesparte,' 
CO.  Buckingliam,  and  the  advowson  of  the  church  of  Weston  Turvile,  the 
manor  in  Wyngrave  called  '  Bury  Maner '  and  the  manor  in  Wyngrave 
called  <  Edmondes  Mancr '  with  appurtenances  in  Balsam,  co.  Buckingham, 
a  messuage,  60  acres  of  land,  6  acres  of  wood  and  8  acres  of  meadow  in 
Little  Kymbell,  co.  Buckingham,  the  manor  of  Cherdesley,  co.  Buckingham, 
called  '  Buktoftes  Maner,'  and  the  reversion  of  a  messuage,  80  acres  of  land, 
24  acres  of  meadow  in  Cherdesley  which  William  FitzJohn  and  Joan  his 
wife,  late  the  wife  of  Thomas  Buktoft,  hold  for  her  life,  late  of  Edmund 
Hampden,  knight,  and  in  the  king's  hands  by  reason  of  an  act  in  Parlia- 
ment at  Westminster,  4  November,  1  Edward  IV.  to  hold  the  above  by  the 
services  of  as  many  knights'  fees  and  as  many  other  rents  and  services  as 
they  were  held  by  before  4  March,  1  Edward  IV.  and  all  issues  from  that 
date.  By  p.s. 

Nov.  18.         Pardon  to  Joan  kte  the  wife  of  John  Lovell,  knight,  of  all  grants, 

Westminster,  alienations  and  acquisitions  of  lands  held  in  chief  and  all  entries  thereon 

by  herself  and  the  said  John  without  licence.  By  p.s. 

Nov.  19.  Grant  to  Bichard  Welles  of  Willoughby,  knight,  and  his  heirs  of  the 
Westminster,  reversion  on  the  death  of  Margaret,  duchess  of  Somerset,  of  the  manors  of 
Welles,  Graynesby,  Bradley,  Aby,  Withern  and  Conyngesholm,  co.  Lincoln, 
lately  granted  to  him  by  letters  patent  dated  1 1  July  last  which  are  invalid 
because  the  above-mentioned  manors  were  granted  to  the  said  duchess  for 
life  by  letters  patent  dated  11  March  last.  By  p.8. 

Nov.  18.  Exemplification,  at  the  request  of  Simon  Thornham,  clerk,  warden  of 
Westminster,  the  Hall  of  Holy  Trinity  in  the  University  of  Cambridge,  of  a  charter 
dated  at  Westminster,  5  December,  27  Henry  VI.  [Charter  Bollj  27~S9 
henry  VI,  No.  42,]  granting  to  Simon  Dallyng,  then  warden,  and  the 
fellows  and  scholars  of  the  said  hall  certain  lands  imd  liberties  in  Abbots 
Bipton  and  King's  Bipton,  co.  Huntingdon.  The  charter  has  been  lost  by 
accident,  as  the  warden  has  taken  oath  in  Chancery,  and  it  will  be  surrendered 
and  cancelled  if  found. 

Nov.  12.         Pardon  to  John  Hemynburgh,  esquire,  of  all  debtSy  accounts  and  demands 
Westminster,   and  all  trespasses  of  vert  and  venison  and  other  offences.  By  p.s. 

Mbmbranb  15. 

Nov.  13.         Pardon  to  Eobert  Curson  of  London,  'gentilman,'  mainpernor  of  William 
Westminster.  Fraunceys  late  of  Kymburley,  co.  Norfolk,  *  husbondman/  of  his  outlawry 


474  CALENDAR  OF  PATENT  ROLLS. 


2465.  Membrane  IS — cont. 

in  the  countj  of  Middlesex  for  not  appearing  before  John  Prysot  and  his 
fellows,  justices  of  the  Bench  of  the  late  king,  to  answer  for  his  ransom  for 
not  holding  the  said  William  before  the  said  justices  one  month  afiter 
Easter,  30  Henrj  YI.  to  answer  Henry  Gay,  esquire,  on  a  plea  of  debt ; 
provided  that  he  satisfy  the  king  of  his  ransom,  he  having  surrendered  to 
the  Flete  prison,  as  Robert  Danby,  chief  justice  of  the  Bench,  has  certified. 

Oct.  23.  Grant  to  the  king's  servants  Alexander  Cely  and  John  Spede,  yeomen  of 

Westminster,  the  king's  chamber,  and  the  heirs  male  of  their  bodies  of  all  lands,  tene- 
ments and  goods,  movable  and  immovable,  late  of  Thomas  Phelps  late  of  la 
Ree,  CO.  Gloucester,  rebel,  attainted  of  high  treason.  By  p.s. 

Nov.  4.  Grant  for  life  to  the  king's  servitors,  John  Langley,  esquire,  one  of  the 

Wfistminster.  ushers  of  the  king's  chamber,  and  Margaret  his  wife,  for  their  good  service 

*  to  the  king's  father  and  the  king,  of  a  tun  of  wine  yearly  at  Martinmas  at 

the  hands  of  the  chief  butler  of  England  or  his  deputy.  By  p.s. 

Nov.  12.  Grant  to  the  king's  servitor  James  Baskervile,  knight,  and  the  heirs  male 
Westmiuster.  of  his  body  of  the  manor  or  lordship  of  Tenbury  alias  Temodisbury,  co. 
Worcester,  and  the  advowsons,  kuights'  fees,  franchises,  liberties  and 
privileges  pertaining  to  it  with  its  members  and  parcels,  late  of  John 
Clifford,  late  lord  of  Clifford,  attainted  of  high  treason  by  an  act  in  Parlia- 
ment at  Westminster,  4  November,  1  Edward  lY.  and  in  the  king's  hands 
by  his  forfeiture,  not  exceeding  the  yearly  value  of  30/.  to  hold  the  same 
with  issues  from  4  March,  1  Edward  IV.by  the  services  of  as  many  knights' 
fees  and  as  many  other  rents  and  services  as  they  were  held  by  before  that 
date.  By  p.s. 

I^Iarch  8.         Mandate  to  all  sheriffs,  constables,  bailiffs,  ministers  and  other  subjects 

Westminster,  of  the  king  to  permit  the  men  and  tenaots  of  the  honour  and  lordship  of 

Richemond,  lately  granted  by  letters  patent  to  the  king's  brother  Greorge, 

duke  of  Clarence,  to  be  quit  of  toll,  pontage,  piccage,  murage,  pannage, 

passage,  lastage,  stallage  and  quayage  according  to  custom.  By  p.s. 

Nov.  16.  Grant  to  Thomas  Delamare^  esquire,  of  ISL  18«.  llcf.  yearly  fix>m 
Westminster.  Michaelmas  last  from  a  rent  of  a  serjeanty  in  the  county  of  Wilts  at  the  hands 
of  the  sheriff,  7/*  16^.  1  Id.  yearly  from  Michaelmas  last  from  minute 
parcels  of  assarts  in  the  same  county  and  40/.  yearly  from  the  issues  of  th/e 
county,  until  he  shall  be  fully  satisfied  of  the  sum  of  71/.  I9d.  which  still 
remains  unpaid  to  him  out  of  the  sum  of  84/.  in  which  the  king  was 
indebted  to  him,  in  lieu  of  divers  grants  to  him  by  letters  patent  dated 
3  April  last,  surrendered  because  invalid  for  the  payment  of  the  said 
71/.  19d.  By  K. 

Mandate  in  pursuance  to  the  sheriff  of  Wilts. 

Mbmbrane  14. 

Nov.  12.  Grant  to  the  king's  servant  William  Stanley,  knight,  and  Joan  late 
Westminster,  the  wife  of  John  Lovell,  knight,  lord  Lovell,  whom  he  will  shortly 
marry,  and  the  heirs  male  of  his  body  of  the  castle,  manor  and  lordship  of 
Skipton  in  Craven  and  the  manor  of  Marton  in  Craven,  co.  York,  with  all 
towns,  townships,  hamletsi  lands,  rents,  services,  reversions,  kuights'  fees, 
advowsons,  farms,  offices,  franchises,  liberties,  mines  of  coaJ  and  lead  and 
all  other  possessions  and  appurtenances,  lately  belonging  to  John  Clyfford, 
late  lord  Clyfford,  on  29  March,  1  Edward  IV.  with  all  issues  from  that 
date,  and  waiffi,  strays,  forfeitures,  goods  and  chattels  of  felons  *and 
fugitives,  deodands,  treasure  trove,  free  warren  and  free  chace  and  return 
and  executions  of  writs  within  the  said  castle,  manors  and  lordship ;  in  lieu 
of  a  like  grant  to  him  and  the  heirs  male  of  his  body  by  letters  patent  dated 
29  May,  4  Edward  IV.  surrendered.  By  K» 


6  EDWARD  IV.— Part  IL  475 


]^4Q5^  Mbmbranb  13. 

Nov.  12.  Pardon  ta  Walter  Barnecote,  prior  of  the  house  of  St.  Andrew,  Tyward- 
Westminster.  retth,  co.  Cornwall,  which  is  of  the  foundation  of  the  king's  progenitors 
and  of  the  king's  patronage,  for  which  reason  the  prior  and  convent  are 
under  the  king's  protection,  of  all  trespasses,  offences,  forfeitures,  mis- 
prisons, contempts,  demands,  debts,  accounts,  arrears,  fiues,  issues  and 
amercements  due  to  the  king  before  10  October  last.  By  K. 

Nov.  10.  Grant  to  the  king's  servitor  William  Colingborn,  esquire,  Serjeant  of  the 
WestminEter.  pantry,  and  his  heirs  and  assigns,  of  the  manor  of  Cloford,  co.  Somerset, 
and  all  lands,  rents^  reversions,  services,  meadows,  feedings,  pastures, 
woods,  waters,  fisheries,  ways,  paths,  courts,  liberties,  franchises,  warrens, 
knights'  fees,  advowsons  and  other  commodities  and  emoluments  belonging 
to  it,  late  of  John  Flory,  traitor,  to  hold  the  same  from  the  day  of  his 
forfeiture.  By  p.s. 

Aug.  20.         Grant  to  the  king's  servitor  Bichard  Oroft  the  elder,  esquirv),  and  the 
-  Wttttmiiiftter.  heirs  male  of  his  body  of  the  manor  of  Burford  with  the  advowson  of  the 

church  of  Burford  and  the  hundred  of  Overs,  alias  ^  Overs  hundrith,'  with 
members  und  appurtenances,  co.  Salop,  with  all  liberties,  franchises,  courts 
leet,  fairs,  markets,  warrens,  fisheries,  knights'  fees,  wards,  marriages, 
reliefs  and  escheats,  late  of  Thomas  Corncwayl,  esquire,  rebel,  and  nine  mes- 
suages, 200  acres  of  land  and  20  acres  of  meadow  in  Leyntwardeyne  and 
Atteforton  within  the  honour  or  lordship  of  Wigmore,  co.  Salop,  and 
three  messuages,  120  acres  of  land  and  pasture  and  12  acres  of  meadow  in 
Carkedon  alias  Carkedeu,  co.  Worcester,  in  the  king's  hands  by  reason 
of  an  act  in  Parliament  at  Westminster,  4  November,  1  Edward  IV.  to 
hold  the  same  by  the  service  of  as  many  kniehts'  fees  and  as  many  other 
rents  and  services  as  they  were  held  by  berore  4  March,  1  Edward  IV. 
with  all  issues  from  that  date.  By  p.8. 

Nov.  22.         Pardon  to  Henry  Bange  late  of  Strumpeshaugb,  co.  Norfolk,  ^  has- 
.  WMtmiiMter.  bondnoan,'  alias  '  yoman,'  of  his  double  outlawry  in  the  county  of  Norfolk 

for  twice  not  appearing  before  the  king  to  anwer  him  for  divers  trespasses, 
insurrections  and  confederaciea,  he  having  surrendered  to  the  Marshalsea 
prison,  as  John  Markbam,  knight,  chief  justice  of  the  King's  Bench,  has 
certified. 

1466. 

Feb.  2.  Grant  for  life  to  the  king's  servant  Hugh  Brice  of  the  office  of  clerk  of 

WeBtmimter.  the  king's  mint  and  exchanges  within  the  Tower  and  city  of  London,  to 

hold  the  same  as  iully  as  any  person  has  done,  with  wages  as  in  the  last 

year  of  Edward  III.  and  the  first  of  Richard  IL  at  the  hands  of  the  keeper 

of  the  said  mint  and  exchanges.        '  By  p.s. 

Jan.  31.  Whereas  on  7  April,  1  Edward  IV.  William  Bedknap  of  the  parish  of 
WestmiDster.  St.  Mary,  Aldermarysbury,  London,  *  mercer,'  and  Henry  Otware  of  the 
parish  of  St.  Magnus,  London, '  girdeler,'  made  mainprise  before  the  king 
in  Chancery  under  penalty  of  500/.  each  for  William  Swayne  of  Salisbury, 
<merchaunt,'  and  the  latter  undertook  under  penalty  of  1,000/.  to  appear 
before  the  king  in  council  within  fourteen  days  after  due  notice  to  himself  or 
either  of  his  said  mainpernors  and  to  be  of  good  behaviour  in  the  meantime, 
and  Henry  Suthill,  the  kind's  attorney,  came  before  the  barons  of  the 
Exchequer  at  Westminster  on  23  November  last  and  on  behalf  of  the 
king  gave  it  to  be  understood  that  the  said  William  Swayne  with*  £otoe 
and  arms,  to  wit  ^  salettes,'  having  collected  divers  other  malefactors  to  the 
number  of  forty  persons  unknown,  on  Thursday  after  Easter  last  broke  and 
entered  the  house  of  the  mayor  and  commonalty  of  the  city  of  Salisbury 
at  Salisbury  and  broke  down  a  stone  wall  there,  the  king  hereby  pardons 
the  said  William  Swayne  and  William  Bedknap  and  Katharine,  late  the 


476  CALENDAR  OF  PATENT  ROLLS 


1466.  Membrane  12— cjn*. 

wife  of  the  said  Henry  Otware  aud  executrix  of  his  will,  of  the  said 
sams,  and  moreover  pardons  the  said  William  Swajne  of  all  offences  com- 
mitted hj  him  and  all  debts  and  accounts,  Bj  p«s. 

Feb.  3.  General  pardon  to  Robert  Ma^ore^  esquire.  Bj  p.s. 

WestminB(er. 

Jan.  29.         The  like  to  James  Godjn  or  Goddjn  of  Folkestone^  co.  Kent,  ^  smyth.' 
Wentmiiifter.  By  pj9. 


Membrane  12. 

Jan.  26.  'Grant  for  life  to  the  king's  servant  John  Yonge,  yeoman  of  the  crown, 
Westminster,  of  the  manors  or  lordships  of  Landehiipe  and  Legh  Durant,  co.  Cornwall, 
and  all  lands,  rents,  services,  knights*  fees,  advowsons  of  churches,  courts 
leet,  views  of  frank-pledge,  warrens  and  all  liberties  and  franchises  belonging 
to  them,  late  of  Thomas,  late  earl  of  Devon,  and  in  the  king's  hands  by  his 
forfeiture  and  by  authority  of  an  act  in  Parliament  at  Westminster, 
4  November,  1  Edward  lY.  to  hold  the  same  by  fealty  only  with  issties 
from  31  January,  2  Edward  IV.  in  lieu  of  a  like  grant  by  letters  patent  of 
that  date,  surrendered  because  invalid.  Bj  p.s. 

Jan.  29.  Grant,  during  the  minority  of  t)ie  heir,  to  the  king's  kinsman  Thomas 

Westminster.  |  Bourgchier,  knight,  of  the  custody  of  all  lands  late  of  William  Drayton 
late  of  the  county  of  Northampton,  tenant  in  chief  by  knight  service,  in 
the  king's  hands  by  reason  of  the  minority  of  Richard  Drayton  his  son 
and  heir,  with  all  issues  from  the  death  of  the  said  William  and  with  the 
marriage  of  the  heir,  without  disparagement,  without  rendering  anything 
to  the  king,  and  so  from  heir  to  heir.  By  p.s. 

Feb.  1 .  Licence,  for  5  marks  paid  by  him  in  the  hanaper,  for  Thomas  Wynde- 

Westminster.  sore,  esquire,  to  enfeoff  Robert  Grene,  esquire,  John  Holgrave  and  Thomas 

Alberton  of  the  manors  of  Stanewell  and  Westhagburn,  held    in  chief,  and 

for  them  to  re-enfeoff  him  and  Elizabeth  his  wife  and  the  heirs  of  their 

bodies  of  the  same,  with  remainder  to  his  right  heirs. 

Feb.  3.  Pardon  to  John  Dynham  of  Nntwell,  co.  Devon,  enquire,  late  one  of  the 

Westminster,  justices  of  the  peace  in  the  county  of  Devon,  son  and  heir  of  John  Dynham, 

knight,  of  all  issues,  forfeitures,  amercements,  reliefs  and  debts  due  to  the 

king.  By  p,8. 

Jan.  28.         Grant  to  John  Say,  knight.  Master  William  Hatteclyf,  the  king's  secre- 

Westminster.  tary,  and  Thomas  Prout,  one  of  the  esquires  of  the  body,  and  their  assigns, 

of  the  collation  to  the  next  vacant  prebend  within  the  college  of  St.  Gkorge, 

Wyndesore.  By  p.s, 

Feb.  4.  Pardon  to  Thomas  Roper,  late  of  Bampton,  co.  Devon,  *  chapman,'  of  his 

Westminster,  outlawry  in  London  for  not  appearing  before  the  justices  of  the  Bench  to 
satisfy  Richard  Wyse  or  Wysse  and  Philip  Amersham  or  Amondesham, 
mercers  of  London,  of  a  debt  of  4Z.  15«.  Zd»  which  they  recovered  against 
him  and  X3(.  4J.  ail  judged  to  them  for  damages,  he  having  surrendered  to 
the  Flete  prison  and  satisfied  the  said  Philip,  as  Robert  Danby,  knight, 
chief  justice  of  the  Bench,  has  certified. 

1466. 

*  *  July  2.  Grant  to  Thomas  Radclyf,  esquire,  aud  the  male  heirs  of  his  body  of  the 

Westminster,  manors  of  Bollyng  and  Thornton,  co.  York,  late  of  Robert  Boiling  late  of 
Boiling,  gentleman,  attainted  of  high  treason  by  reason  of  an  act  by  autho- 
rity of  Parliament  at  Westminster,  4  November,  1  £dward  IV,  and  in  the 
king's  hands  by  reason  of  the  said  act,  to  hold  the  same  oj  the  services  of 
as  many  knights'  fees  and  as  many  other  rents  and  services  as  they  were 
held  by  before  1  March,  1  Edward  IV.  By  pA 


5  EDWARD  IV.— Part  1L  477 


1466.  Membrane  12— cont. 

Feb.  6.  Commission  of  assize  to    Richard  lUyngworth,  knight,  and  Thomas 

Westminiter.  Litelton  in  the  comities  of  York,  Northumberland,  Cumberland,  and  West- 
moreland, in  the  city  of  York  and  the  towns  of  Newcastle-upon-Tyne  and 
Kjngeston-on  -Hull. 

Jan.  29.  Mandate  to  the  escheator  in  the  county  of  Somerset  for  the  restitution  of 

WeBtmiiister.  the  temporalities  of  the  bishopric  of  Bath  and  Wells  to  Master  Robert 

Styllyngton,  whom  the  pope  has  appointed  bishop  in  the  place  of  Thomas, 

late  bishop,  deceased,  and  who  has  renounced  everything  prejudicial  to  the 

king  and  his  crown.    [Fcedera,]  By  p.8. 

The  like  to  the  escheators  in  the  following  counties : 

Middlesex. 
Oxford  and  Berks. 
Gloucester. 
Southampton. 
Writ  de  intendendo  in  pursuance  to  the  tenants. 

1465.  JdSMBRANB   11. 

Mar.  23.  Licence,  in  consideration  of  the  good  services  of  the  king's  kinamftn 
WagtmiiiBter.  John,  late  duke  of  Norfolk,  against  the  king's  adversaries,  for  John,  now 
duko  of  Norfolk,  his  son  and  heir,  to  enter  freely  without  proof  of  age  into 
all  the  possessions  of  his  father  in  England,  Wales,  and  the  marches  of 
Wala-*,  Ireland  and  Calais  which  should  descend  to  him,  and  to  enter  also 
on  the  deaths  of  Katharine,  duchess  of  Norfolk,  and  Eleanor,  duchess  of 
Norfolk,  into  all  the  possessions  which  they  hold  in  dower  or  for  life  of  his 
inheritance.  Bv  n  « 

;1466.  ^P* 

Jan.  30.         Inspeximtis  and  confirmation  to  the  burgesses  of  the  town  of  Maclesfeld 

Wcstmingter.  of  a  charter  dated  at  Westminster,  14  November,  13  Richard  II.  {Charter 

Rollf  I  i-lS  Bichard  II,  No,  10],  inspecting  and  confirming  a  charter  of 

Edward  I.  when  earl  of  Chester,  dated  at  Guildford,  29  May,  45  Henry  III. 

By  K.  and  by  fine  made  in  another  charter  of  confirmation  for  the  good 

men  and  commonalty  of  the  county  of  Chester. 

1465. 

Nov.  16.         General  pardon  to  Henry  Tremeryn  late  of  Bodrugan,*  co.  CornwalL 

Wertmmgter.  «yoman,'  of  all  felonies,   trespasses,    contempts,  extortions  and  offences 

committed  by  him  and  all  forfeitures  of  lands  and  goods.  By  p.s. 

Mbubranb  10. 

Nov.  19.         Indenture  between  the  king  and  Greorge,  archbishop  of  York,  the  master 
Wertminster.  and  the  brethren  of  the  hospital  of  St.  Leonard,  York,  witnessing  that 
although  the  master  and  brethren  and  their  predecessors,  and  the  wardens 
and  brethren  before  there  was  a  master,  were  seised  in  their  demesne  as  of 
fee  and  right  of  the  hospital  of  housebote  and  haybote  within  the  king's 
forest  of  Galtres,  co.  York,  for  the  sustenance  and  repair  of  all   tl^r 
mansions,  messsuages,  and  possessioms  within  the  city  of  York  and  for  their 
fuel  in  the  hospital  and  their  enclosures  within  the  forest,  nevertheless,  for 
the  preservation  of  the  forest  and  the  king's  deer  in  it,  they  will  in  future 
take  no  housebote  or  haybote  in  the  forest,  except  haybote  for  their  en- 
closures called  *  Lesmer,'  ^  Kelsthwayt,'  and  *  Grenthwayt,' in  return  for 
whiuh  the  king  grants  to  them  his  water-mills  by  and  below  his  castle  of 
York  called  '  Castelmylnes '  and  all  issaet  from  the  same  from  18  Jnlv 
4  Edward  IV.  j^j^ 

Aug.  4.  Grant  to  the  king's  kinsman  George,  archbishop  of  York  and  his  heirs 

P       .__.__    ^^^  assigns  of  the  manor  of  Woddesdon,  co.  Buckingham,  with  the  advowson 

of  the  parish  church  of  Woddesdon,  the  manors  of  Topsham  and  Exilon 

liberty  alias  Westyeate,  the  fishery  and  conservation  of  the  river  Exe  and 


478 


CALEl^DAE  OP  PATENT  ROLLS. 


1466. 


Dec.  21. 

Cawood. 


Dec.  29. 
Cawood. 

1466. 

Feb.  14. 
Westminster. 


Feb.  19. 
Westminster. 

1465. 

July  23. 
Westminster. 


Membrane  10 — cont. 

the  haiidreds  of  WonefordyEstbudleghyWestbudlegh,  and  Harigge,  co.  Devon, 
with  the  advowson  of  the  prebend  of  Heighes  and  knights'  fees,  advowsonsy 
liberties,  franchises,  courts  leet,  fairs,  views  of  frank-pledge  and  all  other 
liberties,  commodities  and  profits,  in  the  king's  hands  by  reason  of  an  act  of 
Parliament  at  Westminster,  4  November,  1  Edward  lY.  and  all  Issues  from 
4  March,  1  Edward  IV.  to  hold  by  fealty  only.  '    By  K. 

Whereas  on  11  March,  6  Edward  IV .  by  letters  patent  the  king  granted 
to  John,  earl  of  Worcester,  and  Honry  Torkington  the  custody  of  the 
houses  of  the  messuages  situated  on  the  bank  called  '  le  Tour  Wharf '  by 
the  city  of  London  abutting  on  the  river  Thames  towards  the  south,  a 
parcel  of  land  on  the  said  wharf  40  feet  in  length  from  the  said  messuage 
and  26  feet  in  breadth  from  the  river  Thames  on  which  Robert  Cony, 
'  joynour/  deceased,  built  a  new  mansion,  a  shop  opposite  the  said  parcel  of 
land  between  the  moat  of  the  Tower  and  the  highway  on  the  wharf  with  a 
mansion  newly  built,  a  messuage  on  the  wharf  in  which  John  Elingham, 
deceased,  lately  dwelt  with  a  garden  adjacent,  containing  100  feet  in  breadth 
from  the  great  western  gate  and  the  office  of  the  keeper  of  the  king's  tents 
to  the  east  end  of  the  garden,  and  3  paces  in  length,  and  all  other  messuages 
on  the  wharf  with  gardens  and  vacant  plots  from  the  gate  of  the  Tower  by 
the  hospital  of  St.  Katharine  to  the  gate  called  '  le  Postryn '  on  the  south,  to 
hold  the  same  for  three  years  from  the  Purification  then  last  past  at  a  rent 
of  10  marks  yearly  and  20cf.  increment,  with  the  provision  that  if  anyone 
else  wished  to  give  more  for  the  custody  they  should  pay  as  much  if  they 
vrished  to  have  it;  the  king,  in  consideration  of  the  service  of  Thomas 
Grey,  king's  servant,  hereby  grants  the  custody  to  WUliam  Hulyn,  alder- 
man of  London,  and  the  said  Thomas  Grey,  esquire,  from  Ghiistmas  next 
for  the  life  of  Bichard  ap  Bees,  rendering  as  much  as  above  and  12€^.  more 
and  supporting  all  charges,  with  allowance  for  any  annuities  or  sums  of 
money  that  may  be  granted  from  the  issues  of  the  premises.  By  p.s. 

Presentation  of  John  Elom,  chaplain,  to  the  parish  church  of  Bulwell, 
in  the  diocese  of  York,  void  by  the  death  of  John  Grenehill,  last  parson. 

Whereas  Bobert  Harecourte  of  Stawnton  Harecourte,  co.  Oxford,  knight, 
Thomas  Erdyngton  of  Barowe  upon  Sore,  co.  Leicester,  knight,  WilUam 
Brownyng  of  Milburye,  co.  Dorset,  esquire,  and  William  Harecourte  of 
Maxstoke,  co.  Warwick,  esquire,  by  writings  obligatory  dated  8  June,  2 
Edward  IV.  were  bound  to  the  king  in  133/.  1  \s.  Q\d.  to  be  paid  at  Easter 
then  following  iind  in  the  same  sum  to  be  paid  at  Christmas,  1463,  the  king 
hereby  pardons  the  said  Thomas  the  said  sums.  By  p.s. 

Presentation  of  John  Gybbys,  chaplain,  to  the  parish  church  of  Leve- 
lond,  in  the  diocese  of  Canterbury,  void  by  the  resignation  of  William 
Beverley,  kst  parson. 

Mandate  to  the  escheator  in  the  county  of  Somerset  for  the  restitution  of 
the  temporalities  of  the  Benedictine  abbey  of  SS.  Peter  and  Paul, 
Mochelney,  in  the  diocese  of  Bath  and  Wells,  to  Dan  William  Croke- 
horn,  prior  of  the  monastery,  whose  election  as  abbot  Nicholas  Carent, 
dean  of  the  cathedral  church  of  Wells,  and  Hugh  Sugar,  treasurer  of  the 
same  church,  keepers  of  the  spiritualities  of  the  bishopric  of  Bath  and 
Wells,  now  vacant,  have  confirmed,  and  whose  fealty  the  king  has  ordered 
to  be  taken  by  the  abbot  of  Glastonbury. 

Writ  de  intendendo  in  pursuance  to  the  tenants. 


Membrane  9. 

Nov.  21.         Presentation  of  Bichard  Salter,  chaplain,  lo  the  parish  church  of  Suth- 
Westminfter,   wotton,  in  the  diocese  of  Norwich. 


6  EDWARD  IV.— Pakt  II.  479 


1455,  Membrane  9 — cont, 

Nov.  23.         Freseutation  of  Alexandei*  Godjng,  chaplain,  to  the  parish  church  of 
Westminster.  Leveland,  in  the  diocese  of  Canterbury. 

Dec.  S.  Presentation  of  WilUani  Eggremont  to  the  parish  church  of  Gosford,  of 

Durham.      the  jurisdiction  of  Bichemond.    The  letters  are  directed  to  John  Shirwode, 
archdeacon  of  Richmond. 

Nov.  20.         Grant  to  Thomas  Stonore,  esquire,  of  100  marks  from  the  issues  of  the 
Westminster,   counties  of  Oxford  and  Berks.  By  p.s. 

Nov.  22.         General  pardon  to  Alice  late  the  wife  of  Richard  atte  Welle  late  of 
Westminster.   Lederede,  co.  Surrey,  *  husbondman/  alias  *  yoman.'  By  p.s. 

■Nov.  20.  Pardon  to  John  Holcot  alias  Hulcot,  esquire,  and  Alice  his  wife, 
Westxniniter.  one  of  the  daughters  and  heirs  of  John  Houghton,  esquire,  tenant  in 
chi^f,  and  sister  and  heir  of  Elizabeth,  another  of  the  said  daughters  and 
heirs,  and  tenant  of  her  lands,  of  all  offences  committed  by  them  and  all 
issues,  fines,  amercements,  relie£9,  sfcutages,  debts,  accounts  and  arrears  duB 
to  the  king.  By  p.s. 

VaccUed  because  elsewhere  below, 

Nov.  20.  Grant  to  the  king's  servitor  Nicholas  Harpisfeld,  esquire,  of  40/.  in 
Westminster,  which  John  Vessy  of  St.  Albans,  co.  Hertford,  *  gentilman,'  is  bound  to  the 
king  for  not  appearing  before  him  at  a  certain  day  to  find  security  for 
keeping  the  peace  towards  Agnes  Shotbolt  and  the  whole  people,  as  he 
undertook  at  Westminster  in  Hilary  term,  3  Edward  lY.  at  the  hands  of 
the  sheriff  of  Essex  and  Hertford  or  any  other  officers  or  ministers  of  the 
king  who  may  be  charged  with  the  same  at  the  Exchequer  or  the  heirs 
of  the  said  John  or  the  tenants  of  his  lands  or  the  executors  of  his  will. 

By  p.8. 

Nov.  20.         Pardon  to  John  Holcot  or  Hulcote,  esquire,  and  Alice  his  wife  as  above. 
Westminster.  By  p.s. 

Nov.  16.  Grant  to  John  Harley,  esquire,  and  the  heirs  male  of  his  body  of  the 
Westmmster.  manor  of  Burton  Pedwardyn,  co.  Lincoln,  with  the  advowson  of  the  parish 
church  of  Burton  Pedwardyn,  late  of  Thomas  Daniell,  esquire,  attainted  of 
high  treason  by  an  act  in  Parliament  at  Westminster,  4  November,  1 
Edward  IV.  and  in  the  king's  hands  by  his  forfeiture,  to  hold  the  same  by 
the  services  of  as  many  knights'  fees  and  as  many  other  rents  and  services 
as  they  were  held  by  before  4  March,  1  Edward  lY.  By  p.s. 

Nov.  20.         General    pardon  to    Bichard  Hoton    of  Hotonruff,    co.    Cumberland, 
Westminster.  « gentilman.'  By  p.s. 

Dec.  1.  Grant  to  the  king's  kinsman  John,  earl  of  Worcester,  of  all  goods  and 

Cawood.  chattels  late  of  Edward  EUismere,  esquire,  belonging  to  the  king  by  reason 
of  divers  high  treasons  of  which  he  was  attainted  by  authority  ol  Parlia- 
ment at  Westminster,  1  Edward  lY.  By  K. 

1466. 

Jan.  9.  Pardon  to  James  Haryngton,  knight,  alias  James  Harington,  esquire. 

Sheriff  Hntton.  late  escheator  in  the  county  of  York,  of  all  offences  committed  by  him 

before  1  November  last  and  all  fines,  amercements,  forfeited  issues,  debts, 

accounts  and  arrears  due  from  him  to  the  king.  By  p.s. 

1465. 

March  5.        Grant  for  life  to  Edmund  Fitz  William,  esquire,  of  the  king's  household 

Westminster.  (famulo)f  and  Bichard   FitzWilliam,  knight,  his  son,  king's  servant,  of 

the  office  of  constable  of  the  king's  castle  of  Gonnesburgh,  co.  York,  with 

the  accustomed  fees,  in  lieu  of  a  like  grant  of  the  same  to  the  said  Edmund 

by  letters  patent  of  the  king's  father,  surrendered.  By  p.s. 


480  CALENDAR  OF  PATENT  ROLLS. 


1466,  Mbmbraneb  8  and  7. 

Jan.  SL  Grant  for  life  to  the  kinoes  consort  Elizabeth,  queen  of  England,  in  lieu 

Westmmiter.  of  divers  f^nts  to  her  by  several  letters  patent,  which  are  to  a  great  part 
invalid,  or  IQ2U  15«.  Qd.  yearly  from  the  farm  of  the  town  of  Bristol,  20/. 
yearly  from  the  farm  of  the  borough  or  town  of  Bedford  at  the  hands  of 
the  men  of  the  town  or  the  sheriff  of  Bedford  and  Buckingham,  20/.  yearly 
from  the  fee  farm  of  the  city  of  Norwich  and  the  rent  of  augmentation  of 
the  same,  10/.  yearly  from  the  custody  of  the  assize  of  bread  and  ale  in 
the  University  of  Cambridge  at  the  hands  of  the  chancellor  of  the 
University,  the  vice  chancellor,  the  sheriff  of  Cambridge  and  Huntingdon 
or  the  bailiffs  of  the  town  of  Cambridge,  50  marks  yearly  which  the  abbot, 
prior  and  convent  of  St.  Albans  render  to  the  king  for  the  voidance  of  the 
abbey  and  its  temporalities  at  their  hands  or  the  hands  of  |the  sheriff  of 
Essex  and  Hertford,  15/.  yearly  from  the  farm  of  Radewell  at  the  hands  of 
the  heirs  of  Hugh  de  Veer  and  Denise  de  Monte  Caniso  late  his  wife  or  the 
said  sheriff,  60/.  yearly  from  the  farm  of  the  manor  and  hundred  of  Barton, 
Bristol,  CO.  Gloucester,  at  the  hands  of  the  sheriff  of  Gloucester,  40/. 
yearly  from  the  farm  of  the  town  of  Kyngesthorpe  alias  Thorpe,  co. 
Northampton,  at  the  hands  of  the  men  of  the  town  or  the  sheriff  of 
Northampton,  15/.  yearly  from  the  farm  of  the  manor  of  Falwesley,  co. 
Northampton,  at  the  hands  of  Simon  son  of  Robert  de  Daventre  and  his 
heirs  or  the  said  BheriflT,  40/.  yearly  from  the  farm  of  the  town  of  Ipswich, 
CO.  Suflolk,  at  the  hands  of  the  burgesses  or  the  sheriff  of  Norfolk  and 
Suffolk,  40/.  yearly  which  the  abbot,  prior  and  convent  of  St.  EdmundB 
render  to  the  king  for  the  custody  of  the  abl>ey  and  its  temporalities  at  their 
hands  or  the  hands  of  the  said  sheriff,  9/.  16«.  9c/.  yearly  from  the  surplus- 
.  age  of  the  manor  of  Lowestoft  and  the  hundred  of  Luddynglond,  co. 
Suffolk,  at  the  hands  of  the  heirs  male  of  Michael  de  la  Pole,  earl  of 
Suffolk,  and  other  castles,  manors,  lands,  and  rents,  specified  in  the  seventh 
roll  of  Henry  V.  assigned  to  the  said  Michael  and  his  heirs  and  assigns  to 
the  value  of  500/.  yearly,  or  the  said  sheriff*,  54/.  12^.  yearly  from  the  farm 
of  the  town  of  Nottingham,  at  the  hands  of  the  men  or  the  sheriff  of  the 
towu,  40/.  yearly  from  the  farm  of  the  town  of  Derby  at  the  hands  of  the 
men  of  the  town  or  the  sheriff  of  the  counties  of  Nottingham  and  Derby, 
40/.  yearly  for  the  manor  of  Hedyngton  with  the  hundred  of  Bolyngdene 
without  the  north  gate  of  Oxford  at  the  hands  of  William  Wylcotes, 
esquire,  and  his  heirs  or  the  sheriff  of  O^ord  and  Berks,  20/.  yearly  from 
the  fee  farm  of  the  town  of  Dorchester  at  the  hands  of  the  burgesses  or  the 
sheriff  of  Somerset  and  Dorset,  12/,  yearly  from  the  farm  of  the  manor  of 
Pourestoke,  co.  Dorset,  at  the  hands  of  John  de  Wroxhale  and  his  heirs  or 
the  said  sheriff,  15/.  yearly  for  the  hundred  of  Calne  and  a  water-mill  in 
Calne,  co.  Wilts,  at  the  hands  of  William  la  Zouche  of  Toteaeys,  knight, 
and  his  heirs  or  the  sheriff  of  Wilts,  35/.  yearly  from  the  farm  of  the  town 
of  Oxford,  46/.  yearly  from  the  farm  and  increment  of  the  town  of  South- 
ampton at  the  hands  of  the  men  or  sheriff  of  the  town,  10/.  yearly  from  the 
farm  of  two  parts  and  the  third  part  of  the  manor  of  Grodyngton,  in  the 
counties  of  Oxford  and  Buckingham,  at  the  hands  of  Richard  Dammory  and 
his  heirs  or  the  sheriff  of  Oxford  or  Buckingham,  12/.  yearly  from  the  farm 
or  custody  of  the  town  of  Shaftesbury  at  the  hands  of  the  abbess  and  convent 
of  Shaftesbury  or  the  sheriff  of  Somerset  and  Dorset,  12/.  yearly  from  the 
farm  of  Kyngton  at  the  hands  of  Nicholas  de  Segrave  or  the  sheriff  of 
Warwick  and  Leicester,  100«.  yearly  from  the  farm  of  the  wapentake  of 
Goscote  at  the  hands  of  the  said  Nidiolas  or  the  said  sheriff,  116f.  yearly 
from  the  farm  of  a  moiety  of  the  town  of  Tamworth  and  the  increment  of  the 
same  at  the  hands  of  the  men  of  the  town  or  the  said  sheriff,  12/.  18f.  S\d. 
from  the  fee  farm  of  the  hundred  of  Framlond,  co.  Leicester,  at  the  hands 
of  Roger  Beller  or  the  said  sheriff,  108^.  Ad,  yearly  from  the  farm  of  the 
honour  of  Peverell,  Boulogne  and  Hagenet  with  members  and  appurtenances 


6  EOWABD  IV.— Part  II.  481 


1466.  Membranes  8  and  7 — eont 

in  the  counties  of  Buckingham,    Northampton  and  Leicester,  and  the 
castle  and  honour  of   Huntjngdon    with    members   and    appurtenances 
in    the   counties    of    Huntyngdon,    Cambridge,    Bedford,    Buckingham 
and  Northampton,    late   of   John    Hastynges,    late    earl   of   Pembroke, 
with     courts    leet,  rents,  views    of    frank-pledge,    liberties    and    other 
customs  belonging  to   the  said  honours,  at   the  hands  of  the  said  John 
and  his  heirs  or  the  sheriffs  of  Huntingdon,  Cambridge,  Bedford,  Bucking- 
ham and  Northampton,  105  marks  from  the  farm  of  the  town  of  Cambridge 
and  tho  increment  of  the  same  at  the  hands  of  the  mayor,  bailiffs  and 
burgesses  or  the  sheriff  of  Cambridge  and  Huntingdon,  20/.  yearly  from 
the  fai  m  of  the  town  of  Malmesbury  with  the  three  hundreds  pertaining  to 
it  at  the  hands  of  the  abbot  and  convent  of  Malmesbury  or  the  sheriff  of 
Wilts,  12/.  yearly  from  the  fee  farm  of  the  manor  of  Forde  at  the  hands  of 
Nicholas  de  Audeley  brother  and  heir  of  Thomas  son  and  heir  of  James  de 
Audeley  or  the  sheriff  of  Salop,  20/.  17«.  6d.  yearly  from  the  farm  of  the 
town  of  Shrewsbury  and  the  old  and  new  increments  of  the  same  at  the 
hands  of  the  men  of  the  town  or  the  said  sheriff,  10/.  6x.  Sd,  yearly  from 
the  fee  farm  of  the  manor  of  Rowley,  co.  Stafford,  at  the  hands  of  the  abbot 
and  convent  of  Halesoweyne  or  the  sheriff  of  the  county,  and  9/.  yearly  from 
the  custody  of  the  manors  of  Kynefare  and  Storton  and  the  forest  of  Kyne- 
fare  which  Edward  atte  Wode,  king's  yeoman,  held  at  a  like  farm  for  the 
life  of  Henry  de  Mortuo  Mari  of  his  grant,  at  the  hands  of  Hugh  Tyrdl, 
brother  and  heir  of  John  Tyrel],  and  his  heirs  or  the  said  sheriff,  all  the 
rent  at  the  ward  of  tho  king's  castle  of  Northampton  and  from  the  fee  of 
Chokes  in  the  counties  of  Northampton,  Bedford,  Buckingham,  Lincoln  and 
Leicester,  viz.  lOs.  from  each  fee,  with  the  prises  in  the  town  of  Northampton 
belonging  to  the  constableship  of  the  castle,  the  herbage  within  the  castle 
and  without  in  the  moats  of  the  castle,  the  meadow  and  fijshery  belonging 
to  the  castle,  the  castle,  lordship  and  forest  of  Bokyngham  with  appur- 
tenances between  the  bridges  of  Staunford  and  the  gates  of  Oxford,  the 
supervision,  herbage  and  pannage  in  the  land  of  Benefeld,  the  bailly  Uiere 
called  *  Bokyngham  Baylly,'  the  king's  parks  of  Bryzstoke  and  Clyffe  and 
the  foreign  woods  there  called  *  Brysstoke  Baylle '  and  *  Clyffe  Baylle,'  the 
supervision  of  vert  and  venison  in  the  said  forest,  parks  and  baillies,  the 
manor  of  Kyngesclyffe,  co.  Northampton,  the  town,  manor  or  lordship  of 
Bryggestoke  or  Bryxstoke,  co.  Northampton,  the  hundred  of  Falwesley, 
CO.  Northampton,  and  the  office  of  bailiff  of  the  whole  hundred,  the  manor 
of  Great  Wrattyng  alias  Talworth  Wrattyng,  co.  Suffolk,  the  manor  or 
lordship  of  Haveryng  atte  Boure  with  all  lands,  rents,  services,  heriots, 
reliefs,  escheats,  views  of  frank-pledge,  courts,  perquisites,  fairs,  markets 
and  advowsons,  the  manor  or  lordship  of  Bradwell  and  the  castle,  manor 
or  lordship  of  Hadlegh  or  Hadley,  co.  Essex,  the  lordship  and  hundred 
of  Odiham,  co.   Southampton,  the  manor  or    lordship    of   Gedyngton, 
CO.  Northampton,  the  manors   and  lordships  of  Cokeham  and  Bray,  co. 
Berks,  with  meadows, feedings,  pastures,  woods, groves,  fairs,  markets,  waters, 
fisheries,  courts,   views  of  frank-pledge,  hundreds,  wapentakes,  chattels, 
waifs,  strays,  liberties  and  other  customs  and  proiitd,  all  lands,  rents,  pas- 
tures and  purprestures  in  the  parish  of  Bray  in  the  forest  of  Wyndesore  and 
assarts,  wastes  and  purprestures  with  minute  rents  and  farms  within  the 
forest  of  Wyndesore  and  the  said  manors  and  lordships  of  Cokeham  and 
Bray,  late  of  Humphrey,  late  duke  of  Gloucester,  the  seven  hundreds 
of  Cokeham    and    Bray    with    their    issues,  two   parts   of    the   manor 
or  lordship  of  Swaloufeld,  co.  Berks,  the  manor  or  lordship  of  Hamstede 
Marshall  with  the  park,  views  of  frank-pledge,  courts,  sgistments,  herbage, 
pannage,  waters,  fisheries  and  other  appurtenances,  co.  Berks,  the  manor  of 
Benham  alias  Benham  Lovell,  co.  Berks,  two  messuages,  two  camcates  of 
land,  40  acres  of  meadow  and  20  acres  of  wood  in  Holbenham  and  West- 
broke,  CO,  Berks,  the  manor  of  Benstede  and  Walton  alias  Wauton,  co. 
«    WJU.  H  H 


482  CALENDAR  OP  PATENT  ROLLS. 


14g6^  Membranes  8  and  7 — cent. 

Surrey,  with  the  park  and  warren  and  all  lands  in  Charlewode,  co.  Surrey, 
the  caistle,  manor,  park,  borough  and  lordship  of  Devyse,  the  town  of  Roude, 
the  forests  of  Melkesham,  Pevesham  and  Chippenham^  the  lordship  of 
Marleburgh  with  the  manor  of  Barton  by  Marleburgh  and  the  borough  of 
Marleburgh,  co.  Wilts,  with  hamlets,  meadows,  feedings,  pastures,  woods, 
underwoods,  mills,  waters^  fisheries,  stews,  warrens,  coney-warrens,  the  hun> 
dreds  of  Selkelley  and  perquisites  of  the  court  of  Barton  by  Marleburgh,  waifs, 
strays,  escheats  and  other  profits  and  all  assarts  within  the  forest  of  Saver- 
nake  with  agistments  and  pannage  within  the  forest,  which  Humphrey,  late 
duke  of  Gloucester,  held,  the  manor  of  Langley  Marreys,  co.  Buckingham, 
the  manor  of  Wyrardesbury,  co.  Buckingham,  the  manors  of  Tuderley  and 
Lokerley,  co.  Southampton,  with  waifs  and  strays,  the  manor,  town  and 
barton  of  Gyllyngham,  co.  Dorset,  the  lordship  or  manor  of  Cosseham,  co* 
Wilts,  the  manor  aud  lordship  of  Fekenham  and  the  forest  of  Fekenham, 
CO.  Worcester,  and  the  manor  of  Merston  Meysy,  co.  Wilts,  to  hold  from 
Michaelmas,  4  Edward  IV.  with  all  courts  leet,  views  of  frank-pledge, 
serrices,  knights'  fees,  wards,  marriages,  reliefs,  escheats,  advowsons,  free 
customs,  fairs,  markets,  chaces,  warrens,  parks,  liberties,  franchises  and 
commodities.  By  K. 


Membrane  7 — cont, 

Feb.  17.  Itispeximus  and  confirmation  to  the  stannary-men  of  the  county  of  Com- 

>yestiniustcr.  wall  of  letters  patent  dated  1  July,  18  Richard  IL  inspecting  aud  confirming- 
letters  patent  dated  24  January,  18  Edward  III.  being  an  exemplification 
of  a  charier  dated  19  October,  16  Edward  III.  [Charier  Boll,  16  Edward 
III^  No.  3,]  confirming  a  charter  dated  10  April,  33  Edward  I.  [Charter 
Roily  33  Edward  /,  No,  40]  ;  aud  grant  to  them  that  they  and  their 
servants  may  enter  the  king's  forest  of  Dertmore,  co.  Devon,  and  dig  turf 
there  to  take  to  Cornwall  to  melt  their  tin  with,  with  pasture  for  their  beasts^ 
provided  that  they  pay  the  accustomed  dues,  as  the  lands,  moors,  wastes^ 
and  groves  in  their  own  county  have  been  so  devastated  of  turf  by  their 
digging  by  virtue  of  the  above  letters  patent  that  they  cannot  get  enough 
turf  to  melt  their  tin  and  have  left  many  mines  unworked,  to  the  diminution 
of  the  king's  custom  of  the  coinage  of  tin  of  300  marks  and  more  yearly. 

By  p.s. 

Feb.  25.  Pardon  to  Hugh  Brice,  citizen  and  goldsmith  of  London,  of  all  actions  of 
Westminster,  the  king  against  him  by  reason  of  any  occupation  of  the  office  of  the  king's 
mints  and  exchanges  within  the  realm  or  any  working  of  money  contrary 
to  the  form  of  indentures  between  the  king  and  the  master  of  the  mints  or 
any  statutes  before  30  January  last  or  any  pledging,  alienation,  sale,  for- 
feiture, receipt  or  delivery  of  any  jewels  or  goods  of  the  king  entrusted  to 
him  before  that  date.  By  p.s. 

F<^b.  S:2.  Grant  to  William  Hastynges,  knight,  lord  of  Hastynges,  and  his  heirs 

WestntiDsiter.  and  assigns  of  three  messuages  in  the  parish  of  St.  Michael  commonly 
called  *  Paternoster  Chirche  *  alia*  *  Whittyngton  College '  in  the  ward 
of  Vintry,  London,  late  of  William  Weynsford  or  Waynesford  late  of 
London,  esquire,  and  in  the  king's  hands  by  reason  of  his  forfeiture  by 
virtue  of  an  act  in  Parliament  at  Westminster,  4  November,  1  Edward  IV. 
by  pretext  of  which  he  was  attainted  of  high  reason,  to  hold  in  free  burgage 
by  fealty  and  the  rent  of  \d.  yearly,  and  all  issues  of  the  same  from  4  March, 
1  Edward  IV.  By  p.s. 

Vacated  by  surrender  and  cancelled^  because  the  king  granted  the  same 
to  John  Yonge^  knighiy  and  his  heirs  and  assigns  by  other  letters  patent 
on  30  July  J  12  Edward  IV. 


5  EDWARD  IV.— Part  IL  483 


X4j66.  Membrane  6. 

Feb.  10.         Licence  for  Peter  Arderne,  knight,  one  of  the  justices  of  the  Bench,  or 
Wesoninster.  his  heirs  and  executora  to  found  two  perpetual  chantries,  one  of  one  per- 
petual chaplain  to  celebrate  divine  service  at  the  altar  of  Holj  Trinity  in 
•  ,.  the  chapel  of   Holy   Trinity  and   St.  Mary  the  Virgin  n^wly  built   by 

him  in  the  church  of  Latton,  co.  Essex,  and  the  other  of  another  perpetual 
chaplain  to  celebrate  divine  service  at  the  altar  of  St.  Peter  and  St. 
Katharine  in  the  same  church,  for  the  good  estate  of  the  king  and  his 
consort  Elizabeth,  queen  of  England,  and  their  heirs  and  the  said  Peter  and 
Katharine  his  wife  and  for  their  souls  after  death  and  the  souls  of  tho 
relatives  and  benefactors  of  the  said  Peter  and  Katharine  and  all  for  whom 
he  is  bound  to  pray  ;  to  be  called  the  chantries  of  Peter  Arderne^  knight, 
at  those  altars ;  and  licence  for  the  alienation  in  mortmain  by  him  or  his 
heirs,  executors  and  assigns  to  each  of  the  said  chaplains  of  lands,  tenements, 
rents,  services  and  possessions,  not  held  in  chief,  to  the  value  of  10  marks 
yearly  for  their  sustenance.  By  p.e. 

March  1.         Pardon  to  William  Hurde  alioM  Horde  of  Lawthier  by  Fowy^  co.  Cornwall, 

Westminster,   esquire,  alias  late  of  Fowy^  alias  '  gentilman,'  of  all  fines,  debts,  issues  and 

amercements  due  from  him  to  the  king.  By  p.s. 

March  4.         Grant  for  life  to  Robert  Huet  of  the  town  of  Newcastle  on  Tyne  and 

Westmiueter.   Mary  his  daughter  of  lOOs.  yearly  from  all  the  minute  farms  and  seijeantie» 

exacted  under  the  name  of  the  sheriff  of  the  town  and  all  other  farms  and 

issues  from  the  county  of  the  town.  By  K. 

Vacated  because  in  the  sixth  year, 

Jan.  30.  Jnspeximus  and  confirmation  to  John  Leynton  of  a  writing  of  Humphrey 
Weetminster.  Bourgchier,  knight,  lord  Cromwell,  one  of  the  chamberlains  of  the  receipt  of 
the  Exchequer,  under  his  seal  at  arms  dated  31  August,  5  Edward  IV, 
granting  to  the  said  John  for  life  the  said  office  of  one  of  the  chamberlains 
of  the  receipt  of  the  Exchequer  with  the  appointment  of  one  of  the  ushers 
of  the  Exchequer  and  other  officers,  as  granted  to  himself  by  letters  patent 
dated  17  July,  4  Edward  IV;  pardon  to  the  said  Hmnphrey  and  John  of 
their  trespasses  in  this  matter ;  and  confirmation  to  the  said  John  for  life  of 
the  said  office  and  all  fees  thereof.  By  p.s. 

Feb.  27.         Grant  to  the  king's  servitor  Richard  Arther,  in  furtherance  of  a  grant  to 
Westmiotter.  him  by  letters  patent  dated  20  July,  1  Edward  IV.  (see  p.  46,)  that  he  may 
retain  the  26/.  yearly  there  mentioned  from  the  farm  of  46/.  I7s.  there 
mentioned  from  that  date,  as  he  has  liitherto  had  no  allowance  of  the  same. 

By  p.s. 

Vacated  by  surrender  and  cancelled^  because  the  king  granted  to  him 
the  custody  of  the  lands  late  of  Robert  Ken  in  the  county  of  Somerset  on 
26  Marchy  9  Edward  IV. 


Meubeane  5. 

Feb.  h.  Revocation  of  the  protection  witli  clause  volumus  for  one  year,  granted  on 

Westminster.  26  January  last  by  letters  patent  to  Giles  Ghelabeke  alias  Van  Glambeko 
of  the  parish  of  St.  Peter  within  the  Tower  of  London,  '  skynner,'  staying 
on  the  king's  service  in  the  company  of  Ralph  Wolseley,  esquire,  victualler 
of  the  town  and  castle  of  Calais  and  the  marches,  on  the  safe^ustody, 
defence  and  victualling  of  tlie  same,  because  he  delays  at  Suthwerk,  co. 
Surrey,  as  appears  by  certificate  of  the  sheriff. 

Feb.  3.  Grant  to  Thomas   Philippes  late  of  the  parish  of  Cowlyng,  co.  Kent, 

Westmingter.  'gentilman,'  of  all  the  goods  and  chattels  forfeited  by  him  for  certain 

felonies  of  which  he  was  indicted  before  the  justices  of  the  peace  in  that 

county.  By  p,8. 

HH  2 


484  CALENDAR  OF  PATENT  ROLLS. 


1466.  Membrane  5— cofi^ 

Feb.  3.  Grant  for  life  to  Thomas  Tirjngham,  esquire,  of  the  office  of  forester  of 

Wcstnainster.  ^awestbaillj '  within  the  king's  forest  of  Purbjk,  co.  Dorset,  with  the 
acoastomed  fees  from  the  issues  of  the  counties  of  Somerset  and  Dorset. 

Bj  p.8. 

Feb.  4.  Pardon  to  John  Bothe,  bishop  of  Exeter,  master,  warden  or  guardian  of 

Westminster,  the  college  or  collegiate  church  of  St.  Mary,  Mamcestre,  of  all  offences 

committed  bj  him  against  the  statute  of  provisors.     [^Fcedera.]         Bj  p.8. 

1465. 

Not.  16.  Grant  to  the  king^s  kinsman  John  NeyjU,  knight,  earl  of  Northumber- 
Wefttminster.  land,  and  the  heirs  male  of  his  bodj  of  the  manors  or  lordships  of  Wjrmjngej 
and  Scroweteby,  co.  Norfolk,  the  manors  of  Holoughton,  co.  Leicester. 
Shelford,  Stokebardolf  and  Gedljng,  co.  Nottingham,  and  Welbey,  co. 
Suffolk,  and  the  castle,  manor  or  lordship  of  Wresell,  co.  York,  with 
advowsons,  knights'  fees,  courts,  markets,  fairs,  leets,  views  of  frank-pledge, 
and  other  commodities,  in  the  kine's  hands  bj  reason  of  an  act  of  Parlia- 
ment at  Westminster,  4  March  (stc),  1  Edward  IV.  and  the  tower  of  Bjwell 
with  all  rents,  services,  customs  and  appurtenances  in  the  countj  of  North- 
umberland, in  the  king's  hands  as  above,  and  all  issues  from  the  above 
from  4  March,  1  Edward  IV. ;  without  rendering  anything.  By  K. 

1466. 

Feb.  7.  General    pardon    to    John    Boisuylie   of    Warsop,    co.    Nottingham, 

Westminster.   *  gentilman,'  of  all  offences  committed  by  him  before  5  January  last :   and 

grant  that  he  may  receive  all  moneys  due  to  him  by  any  person  to  that  date. 

By  p.s. 

Feb.  1.  Grant  to  Nicholas  6aynesford,  esquire,  one  of  the  ushers  of  the  king's 

Westminster,  chamber,  and  the  heirs  of  his  body  ot  the  manor  or  lordship  of  Shalford 
Clifford,  CO.  Surrey,  with  the  park  and  warren,  advowsons  of  churches,  wards, 
marriages,  reliefs,  escheats,  liberties,  franchises,  courts,  loots,  views  of 
frank-pledge  and  other  things,  late  of  John,  late  lord  of  Clifford,  attainted 
of  high  treason  by  an  act  in  Parliament  at  Westminster,  4  November, 
1  Edward  IV.  and  in  the  king's  hands  by  his  forfeiture,  and  a  messuage  or 
demesne  plot  in  Netherbumeham,  a  messuage,  two  cottages,  234  acres  of 
land,  63  acres  of  meadow,  12  acres  of  wood,  6  acres  of  marsh  and  7  Is.  rent 
in  Netherbumeham,  Upperbumeham,  Westwode,  Owston,  Epworth, 
Estlande  and  Haxay  within  the  Isle  of  Azeholme,  co.  Lincoln  imd  I6s. 
rent  in  Mesterton  late  of  John  Penycok  late  of  Byflete,  co.  Surrey,  esquir^ 
attainted  of  high  treason  by  the  said  act,  and  in  the  king's  hands  by  his 
forfeiture,  to  hold  by  the  services  of  as  many  knights'  fees  and  as  many 
other  rents  and  services  as  they  were  held  by  before  4  March,  1  Edward  IV., 
and  all  issues  from  the  said  4  November.  By  p.s. 

1465. 

June  4.  Grant  to  William  Laken,  one  of  the  justices  of  the  King's  Bench,  for 

Westminster,  the  better  maintenance  of  his  estate,  of  110  marks  yearly  at  the  hands  of 
the  clerk  or  keeper  of  the  hanaper  or  the  customers  in  the  ports  of  London, 
Bristol  and  Kyngeston  on  Hull,  according  to  the  form  of  an  act  in  Parlia- 
ment at  Westminster,  18  Henry  YI.  and  also  106«.  M^d.  and  the  sixth 
part  of  ^d.  yearly  at  Christmas  for  a  robe  with  fur  and  66#.  6d.  yearly  at 
Whitsuntide  for  a  robe  with  lining.  By  K. 

Nov.  10.         €hrant  for  life  to  the  king's  brother  George,  duke  of  Clarence,  of  a  plot 

Westminiter.  in  the  parish  of  St.  Andrew,  London,  called  *  the  kynges  warderobe,'  with 

tenements,  rents  and  services  belonging  thereto.  By  K. 

MSMBRANB  4. 

Nov.  14.         Licence  for  the  acquisition  in  mortmain  by  Thomas,  the  pry>r,  and  the 
Westminster,  convent  of  St.  Mary,  Walsyngham,  of  the  order  of  St.  Augustine,  and  their 


6  EDWARD  IV.— Paiit  IL  486 


1465.  Membrane  Ar^cotU. 

successors  of  lands,  tenements,  rents  and  other  possessions  to  the  value  of 
40/.  yearly,  in  relief  of  their  poor  possessions,  that  thej  maj'  pray  for  the 
good  estate  of  the  king  and  Elizabeth,  queen  of  England,  his  consort,  and 
for  the  king's  soul  after  death.  By  p.s« 

Oct.  27.       ^Pardon  to  John  Lynton  late  of  Kyngesbromley,  co.  Stafford, ' yoman/  of 

Westminster,  his  outlawry  in  the  county  of  Middlesex  for  not  appearing  before  the 

justices  of  the  Bench  on  the  octaves  of  the  Purification  to  make  answer  to 

the  king,  he  having  surrendered  to  the  Flete  prison,  as  Bobert  Danby, 

knight,  chief  justice  of  the  Bench,  has  certified. 

1466. 

Jan.  16.  Revocation  of  the  protection  with  clause  volumut^  for  one  year,  lately 
Wefltminiiter.  granted  by  letters  patent  to  Thomas  Medewold  late  of  Norwich,  '  loder,' 
alias  Thomas  Methewold,  '  carier,'  then  etaying'on  the  king's  service  in  the 
company  of  Ralph  Wolsley,  king's  esquire,  victualler  of  the  town  and  castle 
ol  Calais,  on  the  safe-custody,  defence  and  victualling  of  the  same  and  the 
marches  in  the  parts  of  Pic&rdy,  because  he  delays  at  Highham  by  Norwich, 
CO.  Norfolk,  as  appears  by  certificate  of  the  sheriff  of  the  county. 

Feb.  1.  Inspeximus  and  confirmation  to  William  Muskham,  chaplain,  vicar  of 

Westminster,  the  church  of  St.  Mary,  Lincoln,  of  letters  patent  dated  20  November, 
3  Edward  III.  confirming  to  the  vicar  40«.  yearly  from  the  taim  of  the  city 
of  Lincoln  granted  by  letters  patent  of  Edward  II.  to  celebrate  divine 
service  in  the  church  for  the  soub  of  Edward  IT.  and  Isabella,  queen 
of  England.  For  \  mark  paid  in  the  hanaper. 

1465. 

July  5.  Pardon   to  Thomas  Parisshe,  merchant  of  the  staple  of  Calais,  aliof 

Vfestminster.  Thomas  Parysof  Boston,  co.  Lincoln, '  gentilman,'  of  all  offences  committed 
by  him  and  all  fines,  debts,  amercements,  actions  and  impeachments,  pro- 
vided that  this  pardon  does  not  extend  to  any  debts  which  he  owes  to  the 
king  by  any  writing  obligatory,  recognisance  or  mainprise  or  any  debt  or 
account  for  any  office.  By  p.s. 

The  like  to  John  Swanne,  merchant  of  the  staple  aforesaid,  alias  John 
Swanne  of  Kyogeston  on  Hull,  merchant.  By  p.s. 

1466. 

Feb.  28.  Grant  to  Walter  Wrottesley,  knight,  and  the  heirs  male  of  his  body  of 

Vfestminster.  tho  manors  or  lordships  of  Mere,  Clynt  or  Clent  and  Hondesworth  and  the 
advowsons  of  the  churches  of  Hondesworth  and  Forton,  co.  Stafford,  and 
the  manors  of  Ramsham  or  Rammesham  and  PoundeknoUe  or  Penpole  and 
the  advowson  of  the  church  of  Ramsham,  co.  Dorset,  with  knights* 
fees,  parks,  warrens,  franchises,  liberties,  courts,  views  of  frank-pledge, 
fisheries  and  other  profite,  late  of  James,  late  earl  of  Wiltshire,  rebel,  attainted 
of  high  treason  by  virtue  of  an  act  of  Parliament  at  Westminster,  4  Novem- 
ber, 1  Edward  IV.  to  hold  by  the  services  of  as  many  knights'  fees  and  as 
many  other  rents  and  services  as  they  were  held  by  before  1  March, 
1  Edward  IV.  and  all  issues  of  the  same  from  6  January,  2  Edward  IV  ; 
and  pardon  to  him  of  all  debts,  accounts  and  demands  due  from  him  before 
18  March  last.  By  pji. 

1465. 

Nov.  26.  Grant  to  Edmund  Croucestre  and  Richard  Crouccstre  and  the  heirs 
Westminster,  male  of  their  bodies  of  the  manor  or  lordship  of  North  Charleton  with  its 
members  and  4  messuages,  100  acres  of  land  and  60  acres  of  wood  in 
Westditchburn,  co.  Northumberland,  late  of  John  Beaumount,  esquire,  and 
in  the  king's  hands  by  his  forfeiture  by  reason  of  an  act  in  Parliament  at 
Westminster,  4  November,  J  Edward  IV.  by  pretext  of  which  he  was 
attainted  of  high  treason,  to  hold  by  the  accustomed  service,  and  all  isaoes 
of  the  same  from  4  March,  1  Edward  IV.  By  p.8. 


486  CALENDAB  OF  PATENT  ROLLS. 


1465.  Membrane  3. 

May  2.  Grant    to    the   king^s    sister  Anne   the  wife  of  Henrj,  late  duke   of 

Westminster.  Exeter,  that  all  the  possessions  granted  to  her  and  the  heirs  of  her  body 
by  her  said  husbatd,  with  remainder  to  the  heire  of  her  body,  by  letters 
patent  dated  22  J>ecember9  1  Edward  lY.  {see  p.  104,)  shall  remain  to  her 
heirs  if  she  die  without  issue  ;  and  grant  to  her  and  her  heirs  of  the 
manors  of  Merton,  co.  Westmoreland,  and  Langton,  co.  York,  with  knights' 
fees  and  advowsons ;  grant  that  she  and  her  heirs  may  have  in  all  the  fuore- 
eaid  premises  and  in  the  manors  of  Bocheford,  Foolenesse,  Esthall,  Southali 
and  Leigh,  co.  Essex,  wreck  of  sea,  all  mines  of  silyer,  lead,  tin  and  any 
other  metal,  chattels  of  felons,  fugitiyes  and  outlaws,  waif  and  stray, 
treasure  trove,  deodands  and  other  profits ;  and  grant  to  her  of  all  issues 
from  all  the  possessions  specified  in  the  said  letters  patent  By  K. 

1466. 

Feb.  6.  General  pardon  to  William  Morysson  late  of  London,  *  yoman '  alias 

Westminster.   « fuller,'  and  Agnes  his  wife.  By  p.s. 

Jan.  22,         Licence  for  John  de  Boyvile,  esquire,  to  found  a  perpetual  almshouse  of 

Stamford,     one  chaplain  and  three  poor  men  at  Stokfaston,  co.  Leicester,  by  the  church 

of  the  town,  for  the  celebration  of  divine  service  yearly  in  the  church  for  his 

good  estate  and  for  his  soul  after  death,  and  to  grant  in  mortmain  to  them 

lands,  tenements  and  rents  to  the  value  of  10/.  yearly.     [Jfomu/icoit.] 

By  p.s* 

March  3.         Grant  to  Walter  Devereux,  king's  knight,  whom  the  king  has  raised  to 
Westminster,  the  rank  of  baron,  and  the  heirs  of  his  body,  for  his  good  service  against 
Henry   YI.  Henry,  late  duke  of  Exeter,  Jasper,  earl  of  Pembroke,  and 
James,  earl  of  Wiltshire,  and  other  rebels,  of  the  manor  and  lordship  of  Sutton 
Courtenay,  the  advowson  of  the  parish  church  of  Sutton  Courtenay  and 
twelve  messuages,  300  acres  of  land,  100  acres  of  pasture,  30  acres  of 
meadow,  20  acres  of  w<xxl,  4  knights'  fees  and  10/.  rent  in  Sutton  Courtenay 
and  Haukeryge,  co.  Berks,  and  the  manor  of  Hyllesdon  or  Hyldesdon  and  six 
messuages,  100  acres  of  land,  10  acres  of  meadow,  20  acres  of  pasture,  20 
acres  oi  wood  and  20«.  rent  iu  Hillesdon,  co.  Buckingham,  late  of  Thomas 
,     Courtenay,  late  earl  of  Devon,  and  in  the  king's  hands  by  reason  of  his  for- 
feiture and  by  virtue  of  an  act  of  forfeiture  in  Parliament  at  Westminster, 
4  November,  1  E<lward  lY.  a  moiety  of  the  manor  of  Richardescaslell,  in 
the  counties  of  Hereford  and  Salop,  late  of  William  Yaux,  knight,  and  in  the 
king*s  hands  by  reason  of  his  forfeiture  and  the  act  aforesaid,  all  the  king's 
tenement  brewhouse  called  ^  le  Walshmau '  in  Fleteitrete  without  Ludgate  in 
the  ward  of  Faryndon  Without  in  the  parish  of  St.  Martin  by  Ludgate^ 
London,  and  two  shops  annexed  to  it,  a  moiety  of  the  manor  or  lordship  of 
Longe  Compton,  ca  Warwick,  and  the  manors  of  Oxenhale»  Graunsomysocle 
and  Coldaston,  co.  Gloucester,  late  of  James,  late  earl  of  Wiltshire,  and  in  the 
king's  hands  by  reason  of  his  forfeiture  and  the  act  aforesaid,  the  manor  of 
Tyltoui  fourteen   messuages,   four  tofta,   24  virgates  of  land,  80  acres  of 
meadow,  2  acres  of  pasture,  30  acres  of  wood  and  lOf.  rent  in  Tylton,  co. 
Leicester,  three  messuages,  eight  tofts,  ten   virgates  of  land,  10  acres  of 
meadow  and  20$,  rent  in  Byllesden  and  a  toft  and  2  virgates  of  land  in  Hal* 
lested,  CO.  Leicester,  and  six  messuages,  200  acres  of  land,  20  acres  of  meadow 
and  20«.  rent  in  Eyncsbury  and  Oiford,  co.  Huntirgdon,  late  of  Sverard 
Dygby,  esquiie,  and  in  the  king's  hands  by  reason  of  his  forfeiture  and  the 
act  aforesaid,  and  the  manors  of  Bamburgh  and  Elky  ngton  and  ten  messuages, 
200  acres  of  land,  20  acres  of  meadow,  60  acres  of  pasture,  40  acres  of  wood 
and  20#.  rent  in   Bamburgh  and  Elkyngton,  co.  Lincoln,  late  of  William 
Tayleboys,  knight,  and  in  the  king's  hands  by  reason  of  his  forfeiture  and  the 
act  aforesaid,  with  knights'  fees,  advowsons,  courts,  leets,  views  of  frank- 
pledge, parks,  warrens,  stews,  fairs,  markets,  liberties,  franchises  and  other 


5  EDWARD  IV.— Pabt  n.  487 


1466,  Membrane  3 — cont. 

profits,  to  hold  from  4  March,  1  Edward  IV.  bv  the  accustomed  services, 
vf  with  all  issues  from  that  date.  By  E. 

1 

!  1465.  MSMBRANB  2. 

July  6,  Pardon  to  Johu  Crosscby,  merchant  of  the  staple  of  Calais,  alias  Crosby 

Westminster,  of  London,  *  grocer,'  alias  Croseby,  *  marchont,'  of  all  offences  committed  by 
him  and  all  fines,  debts,  amercement<«,  actions  and  impeachments,  proyided 
that  this  pardon  does  not  extend  to  any  debts  which  he  owes  to  the  king 
by  any  writing  obligatory,  recognisance,  or  mainprise  or  any  debt  or  account 
for  any  office.  By  p.s. 

The  like  to  the  following  merchants  of  the  staple : — 

William  Bracebrigge  or  Brasebrjg  of  London,  *  draper.'  By  p.s. 

Philip  Hardben  or  Hardeben  of  London,  *  grocer/  By  p.s. 

John  Parker  of  Faringdon,  co.  Betks«  *  marchant.'  By  p.s. 

Robert  Onley  of  Coventry,  *  marchant '  alicu  *  gentilman.'  By  p.s. 

John  Tate  the  elder  of  London,  '  alderman '  alias  *  mercer.'       By  p.s. 

Robert  Why te  of  Farnham,  '  merchant.'  By  p.s. 

Thomas  Wymark  late  of  Sandwich,  *  marchant.'  By  p.s. 

William  Brereley  late  of  Peterburgh,  *  marchant.'  By  p.s. 

John  Challey  late  of  Boston,  *  merchant.'  By  p.s. 

Ralph  Gerald  or  Gerrard  of  Calais,  merchant.  By  p.s. 

John  Qoderyk  of  Boljngbroke,  co.  Lincoln,  '  marchaunt.'  By  p.s. 

Robert  Sutton  of  Boston,  co.  Lincoln, '  marchaunt,'  By  p.s. 

John  Rybelyng  of  Boston,  co.  Lincoln,  <  marchauut.' 

John  Haghous  or  Hagus  of  Esterkell,  co.  Lincoln,  <  marchaunt.' 

John  ^\ode,  citizen  and  grocer  of  London.  By  p.s. 

Thomas  Lokton  of  NotyngBam, '  marchaunt.'  By  p.s. 

Nicholas  Sharpe  of  Coggeshnll,  co.  Essex,  esquire,  late  one  of  the 
collectors  of  the  custom  of  wool,  hides  and  wool-fells  in  the  port  of 

London.  By  p.8« 

John  Hanworthe« 

1466.  Mbmbranb  1. 

March  2.  Grant  to  the  dean  and  canons  of  the  college  or  free  chapel  of  St.  Stephen 
Westminster,  within  the  palace  of  Westminster  that  they  mtiy  appoint  constables,  reves, 
bailiffs  or  bedels  in  their  lordships,  manors,  fees  and  possessions,  that  their 
men  and  tenants  there  shall  not  be  elected  as  constables,  reeves,  bailiffs, 
bedels,  or  other  ofiicers  of  the  king,  that  no  officer  of  the  king  shall  meddle 
therein,  and  that  they  shall  hare  all  goods  called  mainour  taken  with  any 
person  in  the  said  lands,  by  whatsoever  judge  adjudged,  and  craspic  and 
all  kind  of  fish  coming  ashore;  and  pardon  to  them  of  all  donations, 
alienations  and  peiquisitions  of  lands  in  mortmain  without  licence.      By  K. 

1465. 

April  12.  Grant  to  Johu  Fereby  and  his  heirs  male  of  a  messuage  in  Tud worth, 
Westminster.  19  acres  of  land  lying  in  the  fields  there,  6^  acres  of  meadow  lying 
in  the  meadows  there  and  two  little  closes  <»lled  '  Wamerr  Croftes' 
in  Thorne  and  Hatfeld  which  John  Grayve  son  of  Robert  Grayve  and 
Alice  his  wife  lately  held  in  chief  at  will  according  to  the  custom  of  the 
king's  manor  of  BLattefeld  by  copy  of  court  roll,  and  which  at  the  king's 
court  of  Hatfeld  held  on  8  October,  4  Edward  IV.  before  John,  earl  of 
Northumberlaml,  then  steward,  were  delivered  into  the  king's  hands  for 
the  use  of  the  said  John  and  were  granted  by  the  said  steward  to  the  said 
John  and  his  heirs  to  hold  by  copy  of  court  roll ;  to  hold  the  same  by  the 
same  rent  by  which  the  said  John  Grave  and  Alice  his  wife  held  them. 

By  p^. 


488  CALENDAR  OF  PATENT  ROLLS. 


1465.  Membrane  1 — eont. 

No^.  12.  Exemplification^  at  the  request  of  Richard,  bishop  of  Salisbury,  of  the 

Westminster,   tenor  of  the  enrolment  of  letters  patent  dated  15  April,  11  Edward  III» 

restoring  to  Robert,  then  bishop,  a  free  chace  in  his  wood  of  Bissh^pesbere 

and  other  lands  and  woods  within  the  forest  of  Wjndesore  and  libertj  of 

hunting  and  taking  game  within  the  chace.     IF^edera.'] 


Membrane  30cf. 

June  5.  Commission  of  oyer  and  terminer  to  Nicholas  Ayssheton,  Walter  Moile, 

Weetminster.  John  Colshull,  knight,  John  ArundeD,  knight,  Richard  Feupons,  Thomas 
Bere  the  elder  and  Thomas  Clemens,  on  complaint  by  Richs^  Tomyov  of 
the  county  of  Cornwall,  merchant,  that  Henry  Bodrugan  late  of  Bodrugan^ 
CO.  Cornwair,  esquire,  Richard  Masseley  late  of  Bynnarton,  co.  Cornwall, 
'  gentilman,*  William  Tredre  late  of  Tredre,  co.  Cornwall,  *  gentylman,'  John 
!Nycoll  late  of  Bodmyn,  co.  Cornwall,  '  gentilman,'  John  Dolfyn  late  of 
Kernyk  in  the  parish  of  Luxulian,  co.  Cornwall,  ^  husbondman,'  John 
Dolfyn  of  Nans  of  the  parish  of  Luxulian,  *  laborer,'  Thomas  Wylcok  late 
of  Lostwythiell,  co.  Cornwall,  *  peutrer,*  Johu  Gylard  late  of  Tregony- 
burgh,  CO.  Cornwall,  *  peutrer,'  William  Hourde  late  of  Lostwythiell, 
*  gentilman,*  John  Wyllyams  late  of  Helstonburgh,  co.  Cornwall,  clerk, 
Richard  Treluven  of  Ti-eluven,  co.  Cornwall,  « gentilman,'  John  Gay  late  of 
Bodennek,  co.  Cornwall,  '  yoman,'  and  Henry  Jakraulyn  late  of  Tukoys,  co. 
Cornwall,  ^  yoman,'  with  other  persons  to  the  number  of  a  hundred  lay  in 
ambush  and  assaulted  him  at  Lostwythiell  and  Seintcolombe  Overe  and 
carried  off  100  pieces  of  white  tin  belonging  to  him  at  Lostwythiell,  Overe- 
wodeland  and  Combe  by  Lambfordmylle. 

June  7.  Commission  to  William  Bourghchier  of  Fitzwareyn,  knight,  Humphrey 

Westminster.  Stafford  of  Suthwyk,  knight,  John  Colshill,  knight,  John  Arundell,  knight, 
and  the  sheriff  of  Cornwall  to  arrest  Hugh  Courtenay,  knight,  Thomas 
Adam,  William  Webbe  and  John  Brient  of  Perrewen,  co.  Cornwall, 
possessors  and  victuallers  of  a  ship  called  lej^acker  and  bring  them  before 
the  king  in  Chancery  on  the  morrow  of  Midsummer. 

June  8.  Commission  to  Thomas  Grene  to  take  certain  cannons  and  habiliments 

Westminster,  of  war  and  other  things  pertaining  to  the  king's  artillery  which  are  kept  in 
a  place  of  John,  bishop  of  Coventry  and  Lichfield,  called  Ecclesale  and 
other  places  within  the  county  of  Chester,  and  to  deliver  them  to  the  king's 
kinsman  John,  earl  of  Worcester,  who  is  going  to  Ireland  with  an  armed 
force  for  the  safe-custody  of  that  land. 

June  1 0.  Commission  of  oyer  and  terminer  to  the  king's  brother  George,  duke  of 
Westminster.  Clarence,  the  king's  kinsman  John,  duke  of  Norfolk,  William,  earl  of 
Arundell,  and  Henry,  earl  of  Essex,  and  Edward  Neville  of  Bergevenny, 
knight,  John  Audeley  of  Audeley,  knight,  John  Bourghchier  of  Bemers, 
knight,  Richard  Fenys  of  Dacre,  knight,  Humphrey  Bourghchier  of 
Cromwell,  knight,  Ralph  Josselyn,  knight,  mayor  of  the  city  of  London, 
John  Markham,  knight,  Robert  Danby,  knight,  William  Telverton,  knight, 
Peter  Ardenie,  knight,  Richard  Byngham,  knight,  lliomas  Billyng,  Nicholas 
Ayssheton,  Robert  Danvers,  knight,  Walter  Moyle,  knight,  John  Nedeham, 
knight,  Richai*d  Chok,  knight,  Richard  lUyngworth,  knight,  and  Thomas 
Urswyk  touching  offences  against  the  peace  in  the  city  of  London  and  countj 
of  Middlesex.  By  !Bl. 

June  12.         Commission  to  Humphrey  Stafford  of  Suthwyk,  knight,  John  Colshill, 
Westminster,  knight,  John  Arundell,  knight,  Thomas  Clemens  and  the  sheriff  of  Corn- 
wall to  arrest  Hugh  Courtenay,  knight,  Thomas  Adam,  William  Webbe, 
John  Brient  of  Perrewen,  co.  Cornwall,  John  Poulglas  and  John  Davy  of 
Penewen,  possessors  and  victuallers  of  a  ship  called  le  Packer  and  Joceus 


5  EDWABD  IV.— P^T  II. 


1465*  Membrane  30d — cont. 

Amnelly  William  White,  Peter  Jakberry  and  John  Petyt  and  bring  them 
before  the  king  in  Chancery  on  3  August  next.  By  K. 

June  10.  Commission  of  oyer  and  terminer  to  the  king's  brother  G-eorge,  duke  of 
Westminstei.  Clarence,  the  king^s  kinsmen  John,  duke  of  Norfolk,  William,  earl  of 
Arnndell,  and  Henry,  earl  of  Essex,  Edward  Neville  of  Ber^eyenny, 
knight,  John  Audeley  of  Audeleyj  knight,  John  Bourghcbier  of  Barnes, 
knight,  Richard  Fenys  of  Dacrc,  knight,  Humphrey  Bour^bchier  of  Crom- 
well, knight,  John  Markbam,  knight,  Bobert  Danby,  knight,  William 
Yelverton,  knight,  Peter  Ardern,  knigbt,  Bicbard  Byngham,  knight, 
Thomas  Billyng,  Nicholas  Aissbeton,  Bobeii;  Danvers,  knight,  Walter 
Moyle,  knight,  John  Nedebam,  knigbt,  Richard  Cbok,  knight,  Richard 
Illyngwortb,  knigbt,  Boger  Leukenore,  knigbt,  Tbomas  Cobbara,  knigbt^ 
Nicholas  Gaynesford,  John  Devenyssb,  John  Wode,  John  Elmebrugge, 
Bartholomew  BoLney  and  John  Goryng  touching  offences  against  the  peace 
in  the  counties  of  Surrey  and  Sussex.  By  K. 

July  22.         Commission  to  John  Wode  the  elder,  esquire,  Thomas  Sl}ielde,  Thomas 
Westminster.  Aylove  and  Thomas  Dene  to  arrest  Jobn  Lute  and  bring  bim  before  the 
king  in  Chancery. 

• 

Mbmbranb  29d. 

July  6.  Commission  to  John  Neweburgh,  William  Huddesfelde,  John  Husee, 

Westminster.  Thomas  Husee  the  younger  and  the  sheriff  of  Dorset  to  enquire  wbat  lands 
and  tenements  Thomas  Fynderne,  knigbt,  attainted  of  higb  treason  by 
▼irtue  of  an  act  in  Parliament  at  Westminster,  4  November,  1  Edward  IV. 
beld  in  that  county  on  4  March,  1  Edward  IV.  and  how  mucb  they  are 
wortb  and  who  has  occupied  them  since  the  said  4  March. 

Membrane  27d. 

Oct.  25.  Commission  to  Jobn  Norwode,  esquire,  John  Bowe,  Nicholas  Sntbcotes, 

Westminster,  one  of  the  king's  Serjeants  at  arms,  and  the  sheriff  of  Kent  to  enquire  into 
the  petition  of  Herman  Ilyng,  Jobn  Clippyng,  John  Dasse,  John  Van  Aa 
and  other  merchants  of  Almain  that,  whereas  they  caused  divers  goods  and 
merchandise  to  be  shipped  in  Seland  in  a  ship  called  Cogthip  of  Seland  of 
which  Cornelius  Thomson  was  master  to  take  to  England,  the  ship  and 
goods  and  merchandise  were  cast  ashore  at  the  Isle  of  Shepey  and  other 
places  within  the  county  of  Kent,  but  the  master  and  certain  merchants  and 
'^  t  mariners  of  the  ship  came  aliye  to  laud  so  that  the  ship  could  not  be  called 

a  wreck,  wherefore  they  pray  that  the  goods  and  merchandise  that  were 
recovered  be  restored  to  them  according  to  the  form  of  the  statute  in 
Parliament  of  27  Edward  III ;  and  to  cause  restitution  to  be  made, 
reasonable  salvage  being  allowed. 

Membrane  2bd. 

Aug.  28.         Commission  of  oyer  and  terminer  to  the  king's  kinsman  Richard,  earl  of 
Westminster.   Warwick,  William   Hastynges  ot  Hastynges,  knight,  Bicbard  Byngham, 

knigbt,  Tbomas  Billyng,  Robert  Danvers,  knight,  Tbomas  Littelton,  Thomas 
Ferrers,  knigbt,  Thomas  Higford,  Thomas  Throgmarton  and  Tbomas  Muston 
touching  uU  treasons,  insurrections,  felonies  and  other  offences  committed 
iu  the  county  of  Warwick  by  Bicbard  Verney  of  Compton  Murdok,  co. 
Warwick,  knight,  Simon  Mountfort  late  of  Colsbull,  co.  Warwick,  knight, 
Bobert  Mountfort  late  of  Cbyrcbbykynhull,  co.  Warwick,  esquire,  Tbomas 
Mountfort  late  of  Colsbull,  co.  Warwick,  ^  gentilman,'  Henry  Frebody  late 
of  Berkeswell,  co.  Warwick,  ^  gentilman,'  John  Shawe  of  Solyhull,  co. 


I 

\ 


490  CALENDAR  OF  PATENT  ROLLS. 


1465.  Membrane  2bd — cont, 

Warwick,  *yoinan,'  Robert  Sprigge  of  Soljhull,  *yoman,*  Thomas 
Wetherley  of  Solybull,  '  bocher,'  Johu  Shirwood  late  of  Coventry,  *  mar- 
chaunt/  alias  late  of  Alspath,  eo.  Warwick,  esqaire,  Thomas  Weljmgton 
late  of  Asteley,  co.  Warwick,  ^yoman,'  Ralph  Hawkesford  late  of 
Yardeley,  eo.  Worcester,  'baker,'  a/ta#  Ralph  Baker,  John  Crosse  aliat 
Miller  late  of  Pakyngton  Pygot,  co.  Warwick,  *  yoman,'  Thomas  Heth  of 
Hampton  in  Ardern,  co.  Warwick,  'yoman,'  Ralph  Frenshman  cdias 
Hampton  of  Colshnll,  co.  Warwick, '  yomau,'  Richard  Sawyer  of  Colshull, 

*  yoman,'  William  Fosbroke  of  Wisshawe,  co.  Warwick,  chaplain,  John 
Broun  late  of  Baddesleyclynton,  co.  Warwick, '  gentilman,'  Thomas  Dover 
late  of  Walshale,  co.  Stafford, '  yoman,'  Thomas  Wresteler  late  of  Walshale, 
'  yoman,'  John  Beseden  late  of  Compton  Murdok,  co.  Warwick, '  yoman,' 
William  Crosse  late  of  Priores  Pakyngton,  co  Warwick,  *  yoman,'  Thomas 
Spendlove  of  Pakyngton  Pygot,  *  yoman,'  William  Perkyns  of  Pakyngton 
Pygot,  '  yoman,'  Richard  Baker  of  Merston  Culy,  co.  Warwick,  *  yoman," 
John  Wade  of  Barston,  co.  Warwick,  *  yoman,'  Thomas  Corveser  of  Soly- 
hnll, '  wever,'  Richard  Birches  of  Solyhull, '  yoman,'  Thomas  Barrage  of 
SolyhuU, '  liarper,'  John  Campden  of  Solyhull, '  taillour,'  William  Marchall 
of  Solyhull,  *  bocher,*  John  Walker  of  Solyhull,  *  husbondman,'  William 
Vawre  of  Solyhull,  *  yoman,'  John  Lytulhales  late  of  Solyhull,  *  yoman,' 
Thomas  Smyth  late  of  Solyhull, '  hosteler,'  Thomas  Hilton  late  of  Solyhull, 

*  wever,'  Thomas  Marton  late  of  Solyhull,  *  smyth,'  John  Cokkes  of 
Sliirleysti-ete,  co.  Warwick,  *  husbondman,'  John  Archer  of  Bmynden,  co. 
Warwick,  *  yoman,'  William  Kennoun  of  Pylengley,  co.  Warwick,  *  yoman,' 
Thomas  Leder  of  Sheldon,  co.  Warwick, '  husbondman,'  Thomas  Bromwich 
late  of  Ynrdeley,  co.  Worcester,  'yoman,'  John  Smyth  late  of  Yardeley, 
'yoman,'  Thomas  atte  Woode  late  of  Yardeley,  'yoman,'  Thomas  Clerke  of 
Hampton  in  Ardern,  '  husbondman,'  Robert  Clerk  late  of  Hampton  in 
Ai  dern  '  yoman,*  John  Walle  of  Hampton  in  Ardern,  *  miller,*  Richard 
Fyssher  of  Escote,  co.  Warwick,  'smyth,'  John  Person  of  Crudworth, 
CO.  Warwick,  '  husbondman,'  John  Barnard  of  Crudworth, '  smyth,'  Richard 
JelyflTe  of  Wysshawe,  co.  "Warwick,  'yoman,'  John  Pereson  late  of 
Wysshawe,  '  husbondman,'  John  Helys  of  Colshull,  *  taillour,'  William 
Phelypp  of  Colshull,  '  taillour,'  William  Barboure  of  Colshull,  '  harbour,' 
Henry  Jekes  of  Knolle,  co.  Warwick,  '  baker,'  Henry  Evottes  of  Knolle, 
'  wever,'  William  Fyssher  late  of  Coventry,  *  yoman,'  Thomas  WhesLon  late 
of  Priores  Pakyngton,  'yoman,'  Richard  Pecok  of  Tonworth,  co.  Warwick, 

•*  '  yoman,'  and  John  Alygh  of  Pakyngton  Pygot, '  yoman.' 

Nov.  6.  Commission  of  oyer  and  terminer  to  the  king's  kinsman  Richard,  earl  of 

Weatminster.  Warwick,  John,  earl  of  Worcester,  and  John,  earl  of  Northumberland,  and 
William  Hastynges  of  Hastynges,  knight,  Walter  Blount  of  Mountjoy, 
kiiighf,  Ralph  Verney,  mayor  oi'  London,  John  Markham,  knight,  Robert 
Danby,  knight,  Richard  lllyngi\orth,  knight,  William  Yelverton,  knight, 
Pt^ter  Arderne,  knight,  Richard  Byugham,  knight,  Nicholas  Ayssheton, 
Thomas  Byllyng,  Robert  Dan  vers,  knight,  William  Lakcn,  Walter  Moyle, 
knight,  John  Kedeham,  knight,  Richard  Chok,  'knight,  and  Thomas 
Ursewyk  touching  certain  treasons  committed  within  the  city  of  Loudon  and 
county  of  Middlesex  by  Gervase  Clyfton  late  of  Eresby,  co.  Lincoln, 
knight,  and  William  of  Aver  late  of  London,  'yoman.' 

Membrane  22d. 

i 

July  14/'    iZ  Commission  to  Henry  Pomeray,  Thomas  Dowerissh  and  the  sheriff  of  ' 

Westminster.  Devon  to  arrest  Thomas  Fulford,  knight,  Roger  Lugge,  John  Furse  of 
Crokkernewill,  Richard  Brounewyn  of  Crokkernewill,  John  Veyse,  Richard 
Godyng,  John  Blakehay,  Thomas  Preston,  William  Crokker,  John  Bowedon, 


5  EDWARD  IV.— Pa«t  U.  491 


]^465.  Membrane  22d'-~cone. 

John  Body,  William  Griffjn,  John  Flode,  Thomas  Trebill,  Roger  Wodelej, 
Benedict  Feirwode,  John  Bargjn,  William  Smjth  of  Soweion,  John 
Wolcomb  of  Exeter  and  John  Corset  and  bring  them  before  the  king  in 
Chancery. 

Aug.  5.  Commission  of  oyer  and   terminer  to    the  king's  kinsman   Richard, 

Wettmiiiiter.  earl  of  Warwick,  William  Hastynges  of  Hastynges,  knight,  Richard  Byng- 
ham,  kuighty  Thomas  Littelton,  Thomas  Ferrers,  knight,  Thomas  Highford, 
Thomas  Throgmarton  and  Thomas  Muston  touching  all  treasons,  insurrec- 
tions, felonies  and  other  offencea  committed  in  the  county  of  Warwick  by 
dirers  specified  persons  {»ee  m.  26<f.). 

Aug.  27.        Commission  to  Thomas  Yonge,  John  Boteler,  knight,  Robert  Stanshawe 
Westminster,  and  William  Berkeley  to  deliver  the  gaol  of  Gloucester  Castle  of  Thomas 
Gryme,  John  Channdeler  and  Thomas  Chaundeler,  prisoners  there. 

Aug.  19.        Commission  to  Thomas  Lymeryk,  John  Twyneo  and  Thomas  Wliytyndon 
Westminster,   to  make  enquiry  by  oath  of  good  men  of  the  county  of  Gloucester  con- 
cerning the  lands  and  other  possessions  held  by  Thomas  Plelpys,  indicted 
for  high  treason. 

Mbmbrane  20d, 

Nov.  2.  Commission  to  John  Bamme,  John  Norwode,  Nicholas  Snlhcotes,  one  of 

Westminster,  the  king's  Serjeants  at  arms,  and  the  sheriff  of  Kent,  to  enquire  into  the 
petition  of  John  Van  A,  Herman  Ryng,  John  Clyppyng,  Henry  Edylkyn 
and  Peter  Sledemian,  merchants  of  the  Hanse  of  Almain,  that,  whereas  they 
caused  divers  goods  and  merchandise,  viz.  John  van  A,  four  vessels  of  woad. 
12  pipes  of  wine,  a  pack  of  linen  cloth,  a  barrel  with  certain  skins  of  sables, 
thread  of  Cologne  and  other  things,  and  14  pipes  of  oil,  Herman,  four 
vessels  of  woad,  John  Clyppyng  five  vessels  of  woad,  Henry,  two  vessels  of 
woad  and  Peter  three  vessels  of  woad,  marked  with  various  signs  here 
depicted,  among  other  goods  and  merchandise  to  be  shipped  in  Seland  in  a 
ship  called  Cogship  of  Seland  of  which  Cornelius  Thomson  was  master  to 
take  to  England,  the  ship  and  goods  and  merchandise  were  cast  ashore  at 
the  Isle  of  Shepey  and  other  places  within  the  county  of  Kent,  but  the 
master  and  certain  merchants  and  mariners  of  the  ship  came  alive  to  land 
so  that  the  ship  could  not  be  called  a  wreck,  wherefore  they  pray  that  the 
goods  and  merchandise  that  were  recovered  be  restored  to  them  according 
to  the  form  of  the  statute  in  Parliament  of  27  Edward  III ;  and  to  cause 
restitution  to  be  made,  reasonable  salvage  being  allowed. 

Mbmbrasb  i9d, 

Oct.  8.  Commission  to  the  king's  kinsman  Edmund,  earl  of  Kent,  Humphrey 

Cawood.  Bourgchier  of  Cromwell,  knight,  John  Welles  of  Willoughby,  knight, 
Richard  Wydevile  of  Revers,  knight,  Antony  Wydevile  of  Scales,  knight, 
John  le  Zoiiche,  knight,  William  Fenys  of  Say,  knight,  Richard  Wydevile, 
knight,  Thomas  Waldegrave,  knight,  Walter  Mauntell,  knight,  Humphrey 
Stafford,  esquire,  W^alter  Gorge,  esquire,  Bnan  Talbot,  esquire,  George 
Bameby,  esquire,  William  Lytelton,  esquire,  and  the  sheriffs  of  Lincoln, 
Northampton,  Warwick,  Worcester,  Gloucester  and  Somerset,  to  arrest 
Dame  Margaret  Lucy,  Thomas  Wake,  esquire, '  and  Thomas  Pachet, 
'  gentilman,'  and  bring  them  before  the  king  in  Chancery. 

Mbmbbanb  \bd. 

Nov.  10.         Commission  to  Roger  Corbet,  knight,  and  the  justices  of  the  peace  and 
Westmmster.   the  sheriff  of  the  county  of  Salop  to  arrest  Fulk  Spryngeaux,  esquire,  and 


492  CALENDAR  OF  PATENT  ROLLS. 


1465.  Membrane  I5d — cont. 

Margaret  late  the  wife  of  William  Burlej,  and  bring  them  before  the  king 
in  council. 

1460,  Mbmbranb  \3d. 

Feb.  10.  Commission  to  Thomas,  abbot  of  Shrewsburj,  Thomas  Litelton,  seijeant 

Westminster,  at  law,  and  Roger  Eton,  sheriff  of  Salop,  to  ^enquir^  into  divers  alleged 
defects  in  the  houses  and  other  buildings  of  the  hospital  of  St.  John 
the  Baptist,  Shrewsbury,  which  is  of  the  king's  patronage,  and  the  books, 
vestments  and  other  ornaments  of  the  church  through  the  negligence  of 
.  the  masters  or  wardens  of  the  hospital  and  into  the  alleged  alienation  by 
them  of  the  possessions  of  the  hospitaL 

Membrane  lOd, 

■ 

Jan.  4.  Commission  to  William  Elande,  Ingelram  Lepton  and  the  sheriff  of  York 

Cawood.  to  arrest  John  Werse  late  of  Molcroft,  co.  York,  ^gentilman,'  Hugh 
Wjlforthe  late  of  Molcrofte,  ^gentilman,'  and  Robert  Jakson  late  of 
Molcrofte,  ^laborer,'  and  bring  them  before  the  king  in  Chancery. 

Jan.  8.  The  like  to  William  Conyers,  George  Thursby  and  William  Yoman  to 

Cawood.  arrest  Stephen  Wilson,  George  G^ldehird,  James  Geldehird,  Thomas 
Twaytes,  Thomas  Bek,  George  Cagill,  William  Luge,  Robert  Bene,  Robert 
DicsoD,  John  Wylkyason,  William  Spence,  Robert  Sadeler,  James  Spence, 
John  Symson,  John  Tere,  Richard  Michell,  John  Jake,  John  Frere, 
Richard  I'homson,  Matthew  Metcalfe,  Thomas  Twaytes,  Adam  Jake, 
Alexander  Metcalfe,  Edmund  Heryson,  Cuthbert  Metcalfe,  Hugh  Sker, 
Thomas  Burse,  Thomas  Metcalfe,  ^  gentilman,'  Geoffrej  Stokdall,  Henry 
Roger,  Thomas  Butlar,  Henir  Metcalfe,  Reginald  Metcalfe,  Robert  Thom- 
son, John  Walssh,  Nicholas  Smyth  and  Jol^  Gaill  and  bring  them  before 
the  king  in  Chancery. 

Feb.  14.  Commission  to  Thomas  Uvedale,  knight,  Geoflrey  Gate,  knight,  William 

Westminster.  Godyere,  doctor  of  laws,  Maurice  Berkeley,  esquire,  Edward  Langeford, 
Nicholas  Suthcotes,  one  of  the  king's  serjeacts  at  arms,  and  the  sheriff  of 
Southampton  to  enquire  what  goods,  mercandise  and  gear  came  to  land 
from  a  carrack  of  G^noa  called  la  Santa  Maria  of  which  Christopher 
John  was  patron,  which  foundered  near  the  Isle  of  Wight  when  sailing 
to  England,  and  to  take  the  same  into  safe-custody. 

Membrane  6d. 

Feb.  22.  Commission  to  John  Hodulston,  knight,  William  Parre,  knight,  Richard 
Westminster.  Hodulston,  William  Haryugton  and  Roland  Thomburgh  to  arrest  Roland 
Earkeby,  esquire,  Hugh  Ayscough  of  Broughton,  Robert  Penyngton  of 
Broghton,  Richard  Berowdale  of  Broghton,  Christopher  Denny  of  Brogh- 
ton,  William  Asbourner  of  Braffelde,  John  Shakelok  of  Braifeld,  Robert 
Smyth  of  Braffelde,  John  Toures  of  Braffelde,  John  Dixon  of  Braffelde, 
John  Middelton  of  Donerdall,  Nicholas  Middelton  of  Donerdall,  John  Robyn- 
son  of  Donerdall, —  Thomson  of  Donerdall,  John  Penyngton  of  Lykesdalein 
Broghton,  John  Brasbroune  of  Lykesdale  the  elder  and  the  younger,  Thomas 
Fykelhowe  of  Lykesdale,  Christopher  Smyth  of  Lykesdale,  John  Dauson  of 
Lykesdale,  Roland  Dauson  of  Lykesdale,  William  Hoggeson,  Tyson  of  the 
Byrkes,  William  Smyth,  Thomas  Smyth,  Thomas  Milner  of  Munkconyston, 
William  Saunderson  of  Lawe  Foumesse,  John  Hunter  of  Lawe  Foumesse 
and  James  Bolton  and  bring  them  before  the  king  in  Chancery. 


493 


5  EDWARD  IV.— Paet  III. 


1465.  Mbmbranbjs  26  and  25. 

July  12.         Exemplification    at    the  request  of    John    Scot,    knighti   of   the  foU 
Westminster,  lowing:— 

1.  A  petition  (English)  in  Chancery  of  John  Leukenore  and  Jane  his 

wife  that  whereas  Ralph  Botiler,  knight,  lord  Sudelej,  Richard 
Fenvs,  knight,  lord  Daci*e,  Thomas  Echingham,  knight,  Roger 
Leukenore,  knight,  Thomas  Hoo,  esquire,  Thomas  Leukenore,  esquire, 
and  Bartholomew  Bolney,  esquire,  are  seised  of  the  manor  of 
Brabourne,  co.  Kent,  by  force  of  a  fine  made  to  them  by  the  said 
beseechers  and  to  the  heirs  of  tlie  said  Thomas  Hoo  to  the  use  of 
the  said  beseechers  and  principally  to  perform  the  will  of  the  said 
Jane,  and  the  said  beseechers  have  covenanted  with  Sir  John  Scot, 
knight,  for  a  certain  sum  of  money  that  the  said  lord  Sudeley  and 
others  shall  make  estate  of  the  said  manor  of  Brabourne  in  fee 
simple  to  Thomas,  archbishop  of  Canterbury,  Henry,  earl  of  Essex, 
John,  lord  Wenlok,  William  Tyrell  the  elder,  knight,  Edward 
Berkele,  Nicholas  Husey,  William  Haut,  Walter  Hert,  clerk, 
Richard  Ford,  John  Sellyns,  esquire,  John  Emele,  John  Goryng, 
Thomas  Belyngeham,  "NichoTas  Lathell,  John  Fust,  John  Apsley, 
Vincent  Fynche,  Roger  Brent,  John  Aldy,  and  Thomas  GroldweU, 
fishmonger,  to  the  intent  that  these  shall  make  enfeoffment  to  the 
said  Sir  John  Scot  according  to  the  titling  of  the  deed  annexed  and 
he  shall  make  estate  to  them  of  lands  and  tenements  within  the 
shires  of  Kent  and  Sussex  to  like  yearly  value  and  13#.  4d.  more 
above  all  charges  and  they  shall  stand  seised  of  the  said  lands  and 
tenements  and  the  residue  of  the  manor  to  the  use  of  the  said 
beseochers  and  the  heirs  male  of  their  bodies,  with  remainder  to  the 
heirs  of  the  body  of  the  said  Jane  and  final  remainder  to  the  said 
Sir  John  Scot  and  his  heirs  and  assigns,  and  after  the  death  of  the 
said  beseechers  their  said  heirs  shall  find  surety  to  pay  100  marks 
every  year  for  eight  years  to  the  said  Sir  John  Scot  and  his  heirs  or 
executors,  in  default  of  which  these  last  shall  take  the  issues 
of  the  manor  in  the  name  of  50  marks  yearly  for  sixteen  years, 
nevertheless  the  said  lord  Sudeley  and  others  have  refused  to 
make  estate  as  above,  wherefore  they  pray  that  writs  of  sub 
pena  may  be  directed  to  them  and  that  they  may  be  compelled 
to  do  so. 

2.  A  writing  of  the  said  archbishop  and  others  confirming  to  the  said 

John  Scot  and  his  heirs  and  assigns  his  estate  in  the  manor  of 
Combe,  which  he  holds  as  of  the  manor  of  Brabourne,  to  hold  by 
fealty  and  the  rent  of  3«.  4d,  yearly,  releasing  to  him  all  other 
customs  and  services  due  to  them  from  the  said  manor  and  divers 
other  lands  and  tenements  which  he  holds  in  the  parishes  of 
Brabourne  and  Hastynglagh  as  of  the  manor  of  Brabourne,  and 
granting  to  him  all  those  lands  and  tenements  in  Brabourne  and  Wy 
called  '  Maister  Johnlond,*  and  all  those  lands  and  tenements  called 
Middelfeld,  parcel  of  the  manor  of  Brabourne,  lying  between 
the  site  of  the  manor  of  Combe  and  a  hill  called  Brabourne 
Downe. 
.3.  The  answer  (English)  of  Thomas  Hoo,  esquire,  that  if  the  said 
Jane  will  affirm  her  will  in  Chancery  he  will  do  as  the  court  will 
award. 


494  CALENDAB  OF  PATENT  BOLLS. 


1465.  Membranes  26  and  25— -con^. 

4.  The  replication  (English)  of  John  Leukenore  and  Jane  his  wife  that 

such  is  her  will. 

5.  The  rejoinder  (English)  of  Thomas  Hoo  that  he  clearly  understands 

and  will  do  as  the  court  will  award. 

6.  Judgment  in  the  Chancery,  rendered  on  the  dorse  of  the  petition^  that 

the  said  Thomas  Hoo  make  estate  to  the  stud  archhishop  and  othei*6  as 
above,  12  June,  5  Edward  lY. 

Mbmbranb  24. 

•  Oct.  20.  [nspextmut  and  confirmation  to  the  dean  and  chapter  of  the  cathedral 

Wefltaaneter.  church  of  Lincoln  of  the  following  charters  of  Henry  II. : — 

J .  H,  reof  Anglie  et  dux  Normannie  et  Aquitanie  et  coines  Andegavie 

archi^MscopiSf    epiaeapis^  abbatibuSy   baronibus^  justidariisy  vice- 

comitibus  et  omnibus  fidelibus  suisy  totius  Anglie^  Francis  et  Anglisy 

salutem.     Sciatis  me  dedisse  ecclesie  Sancie  Marie  Lincolniensis 

decern  et  octo  Ubras  de  reddiiu  civitatis  mee  Lincolnie  in  escambio 

pro  Hits  decern  et  octo  libris  quas  habebat  in  manerio  meo  de 

Kerketona.     Quare  volo  etfirmiter  precipio  quod  predista  ecclesia 

iUas  decern  et  octo  Ubras  in  perpetuam  elemosinam  libere  et  quiete 

,.  et  honorifice  habeat  ad    terminos  statutes  quibus    ministr%    mei 

Lincolnie  michi  reddunt  redditus  m£os,    Testibus  Teodbaldo  archie^ 

piscopo    CanthuariensCy    N,   episcopo  de  Eliy  Ricardo   episcopo 

LondinensCy  H,  episcopo  Abrincense^  R,  comite  Comubiey  R,  comite 

Legrei^y  R.  de  Hum[€io]  constabularies  apud   Westmonasterium. 

[A.D.  1155-1160.] 

.  2.  ff.  rex  Anglie  et  dux  Nonnannie  et  Aquitanie  et  comes  Andegavie 

justieiariis  et  vieecomitibus  et  baronibus  et  forestariis  et  ministris 

et  omnibus  fidelibus  suis  de  Northamptonscira  et  Httntedscira  et 

Buckingehamscira  et  Oxenefordscira  salutem.   Sciatis  me  concessisse 

ecclesie  Sancie  Marie  Lincolniensis  et  canonicis  ejusdem  ecclesie 

decimas  omnium  denariorum  de  omnibus  forestis  meis  de  quatuor 

predictis  comitatibusy  ita  bene  et  in  pace    et    libere  et  quiete  et 

plenarie  et  integre  habendas  sicut  eas  melius  et  plenius  et  integrius 

habuerunt  tempore  regis  H,  avi  mei,    TestibuSy  Th.  cancellarioy  et 

Warinofilio  Fcr*  (sic)yCamerario,  et  Mannlassero"]  Bisety  dapiferoy 

apud  Lineolniam,  For  40«.  paid  in  the  hanaper. 

1466. 

Jan.  5.  Inspeximus  and  confirmation  to  the  prioress  and  nuns  of  Bungay  of  a 

Westminster,   charter  dated  at  Lincoln,  5  July,  5  Edward  III.  ICharter  Roily  5  Edward 
IIL  No,  48,]  inspecting  and  confirming  the  following ; — 

1.  A  charter  of  HeniT  II.    [^Monasticon,] 

2.  A  charter  dated  at  Bromholme,  13  March,  19  Henry  III.  [Monasticon.'} 

For  I3s,  4J.  paid  in  the  hanaper. 

Membrane  23. 

Feb.  4.  Inspeximus  and  confirmation  to  Robert,  the  prior,  and  the  convent  of 

Westminrter.   Bilsington  of  the  following :  — 

1.  A  charter  dated  at  Windsor,  12  June,  37  Henry  III.  inspecting  and 

confirming  the  charier  of  foundation  of  John  Maunsel,  provost  ol 
Beverley.     [MonasticonJ] 

2.  Letters  patent  dated  23  February,  1  Edward  III.     [MonctsticonJ] 

3.  Letters  patent  dated  7  June,  4  Edward  I.  granting  that  the  taking  of 

the  house  into  the  king's  hands  at  the  late  voidance  shall  not  be 
taken  as  a  precedent,  provided  that  the  prior  be  duly  presented  when 
elected. 


5  EDWARD  IV.— Pabt  IIL  495 


1466.  Membrane  23 — cont. 

4.  Letters  patent  dated  23  May,  15  Edward  III.  granting  licence  for  the 
acquisition  in  mortmain  by  them  of  lands  to  the  vidae  of  10  marks 
yearly.  For  \  mark  paid  in  the  hanaper. 

]  4(55,  Membranes  22  and  21. 

March  26.  Licence  for  the  acquisition  in  frank  almoin  by  Master  Andrew  Doket, 
Westminster,  the  president,  and  the  fellows  of  the  college  of  St  Margaret  and  St  Bernard 
in  the  University  of  Cambridge,  which  is  of  the  patronage  of  Elizabeth, 
queen  of  England,  of  lands,  tenements,  rents,  and  advowsons  of  churches 
and  other  benefices  to  the  value  of  200/.  yearly,  and  the  appropriation  in 
mortmain  by  them  of  the  said  churches  and  benefices,  that  they  may  pray 
for  the  good  estate  of  the  king  and  his  said  consort  and  for  their  souls 
•  after  death.  Bj  p.s. 

May  12.  Inspeximus  and  confirmation  to  Philip,  the  prior,  and  the  convent  of 

Westminster.   Suthwike  of  the  following  : — 

1.  A  charter  dated  at  Westminster,  7  October,  15  Richard  IL  [Charter 

Roily  It5-17  Richard  IL  No.  32,]  inspecting  and  confirming  a 
charter  dated  at  Westminster,  20  February,  27  Edward  III.  [Charter 
Roll,  25-27  Edward  IIL  No.  19,]  inspecting  and  confirming  the 
following :  — 

(1.)  A  charter  dated  at  Westminster,  21  February,  6  Edward  II. 
[Charter  Roll, 6  Edward  IL  No.  24,1  inspecting  and  confirm- 
ing the  following ; — 

a.  A  charter  dated  21  July,  3  John. 

b.  A  charter  dated  20   April,  5  John.     [Rotuli  Cartarum 
p.  128.] 

c.  A  charter  dated  28  December,  16  Henry  III. 

d.  A  charter  dated  10  August,  53  Henry  III.  inspecting  and 
confirming  a  charter  of  Henry  I.  [Monasticon.] 

(2.)  A  charter  dated  at  Westminster,  18  April,  19  Henry  III. 

[Charter  Roll,  19  Henry  IIL  w.  11.] 
(3.)  A  charter  dated  at  Westminster,  7  October,  14  Edward  11, 

[Charter  Roll,  14  Edward  IL  No.  32.] 
(4.)  Letters  patent  dated  10  July,  20  Edward  IIL 

2.  Letters  patent  dated  29  February,  21  Edward  III.  granting  that  the 

re-afibrestation  of  the  forest  of  Porchester  shall  not  interfere  with  the 
rights  of  the  commoners.  For  20^.  paid  in  the  hanaper. 

Membrane  21 — cont. 

March  25.        Inspeximus  and  confirmation  to  the  dean  and  canons  of  the  chapel  of 

Westroiostor.  St.  Stephen   within   the  palace  of  Westminster   of  letters  patent  dated 

1  December,  37  Henry  YL  granting  to  them  divers  liberties ;  and  grant 

that  from  4  March,  1  Edward  ly.  they  shall  be  quit  of  all  debts  and 

accounts  due  to  the  king  by  reason  of  any  tenth  or  fifteenth.  ])y  K. 

Membrane  20. 

March  12.        Inspeximus  and  confirmation  to  the  burgesses  of  the  town  of  Haverford 
Westminster,   in  Wales,  of  the  following: — 

1.  Letters  patent  4  June,  1  Richard  II.  inspecting  and  confirming  a 

charter  dated  at  St  Edmunds,  4  June,  5  Edward  III.  [Charter  Roll, 

5  Edward  IIL  No.  46,]  inspecting  and  confirming  the  following : — 

(1.)  A  charter  dated  at  Here&rd,  1  Noveml^r,  19  Edward  I. 

[Charter  Roll,  19  Edward  /.  No,  7.] 


496  CALENDAR  OF  PATENT  BOLLS. 


14(5  5 ,  Membrane  20 — cofU. 

(2.)  A  charter  of  William  Marescball,  earl  of  Pembroke. 

(3.)  A  charter  of  William  MareschaH,  earl  of  Pembroke,  dated  vi. 

Id.  Sept.,  3  Henry  III. 
(4.^  A  charter  of  William  Mareschall,  earl  of  Pembroke. 
(5.)  Another  charter  of  the  same. 
(6.)  A  charter  of  Gilbert  Mareschall,  earl  of  Pembroke. 
2.  A    charter    dated    at  Westminster,   19  December,  9    Bichard   II. 
[Charter  Roll,  9  Richard  IL  No,  18.]  For  20$.  paid  in  the  hanaper. 

Membranes  19  and  18. 

Jnlj  6.  Tnspeximus  and  confirmation  to  Peter,  the  prior,  and  the  canons  of 

WMtmixifter.  Bridlington  of  the  following : — 

1.  A  charter  dated  at  Westminster,  2  March^  15  Bichard  IL  [Charter 

R0II9  15-17  Richard  IL  No.  26,]  inspecting  and  confirming  with 
additions  the  following  : — 

(1.)  A  charter  dated  at  York,  23  February,  5  Edward  11.  [Charter 

Roily  5  Edward  II,  No.  19,]  inspecting  and  confirming  the 

following : — 

a.  A  charter  of  Henry  I.  dated  at  York. 

b.  Another  charter  of  the  same.     [Monasticofi.'] 

c.  Letters  patent  of  Stephen.     [Ibid.'] 

d.  A  charter  dated  at  Lutgarshale,  6  December,  2  John. 

e.  A  charter  of  Henry  II.  dated  at  Waltham.    [Monasticon,] 

f.  A  charter  of  John,  son  of  John  de  Harpham.  [Ibid."] 

g.  A  charter  of  B.  son  of  Hernis.  [Ibid.] 

h.  Letters  patent  dated  16  June,  35  Edward  I. 
f .  A  charter  of  Walter  de  Yer,  son  of  Adam  de  Gonsla.  [Ibid.] 
(2.)  A  charter  of  Stephen  dated  at  York. 

2.  Letters  patent  dated  2  December,  1  Edward  IV.  (seep.  82). 

By  p.s.  and  for  8/.  paid  in  the  hanaper. 

Membrane  18— con^. 

July  2o.  Pardon  to  Philip  Okore,  esquire,  sheriff  of  the  county  of  Nottingham, 
WettmiDster.  keeper  of  the  gaol  at  Nottingham,  of  all  ofEences  committed  by  him  and  all 
fines  or  sums  of  money  forfeited  by  him  to  the  king  or  adjudged  against 
him  on  an  act  of  Parliament  because  Bobert  Marshal,  late  of  Normanton 
by  Suthwell,  co.  Nottingham,  ^gentilman,'  lately  retained  with  John 
Chaworih,  late  of  Kirtlington,  co.  Nottingham,  esquire,  for  10  marks 
yearly  to  serve  him,  who  on  Wednesday  in  the  second  week  of  Lent  last 
at  the  delivery  of  the  said  gaol  made  before  Bobert  Danby  and  John 
Morgan,  justices,  was  brought  before  the  said  justices  by  the  said  sheriff 
and  by  them  delivered  to  him  for  safe  custody  without  bail  or  mainprise 
under  penalty  of  500  marks,  escaped  from  the  said  gaol  and  his  custody. 

By  p.s. 

June  22.         Grant  to  Henry  Holthoi-pe,  esquire,  Thomas   Styllyngton,  clerk,  and 

Westminster.  William  Nicholas,  clerk,  of  all  issues  from  the  temporalities  of  the  bishopric 

of  Bath  and  Wells,  in  the  king's  hands  by  the  death  of  Thomas,  late  bishop, 

from  the  Annunciation  last  so  long  as  the  temporalities  remain  in  the  king's 

hands.  By  p.s. 

Membranes  17-15. 

Oct.  20.  Inspeximus  and  confirmation  to  the  burgesses  of  the  town  of  Bridgnorth, 

Westmineter.  co.  Salop,  of  the  following: — 

1.  Letters  patent  dated  7  September,  10  Henry  VI.  inspecting  and  con- 
firming letters  patent  dated  1 1  February,  1  Henry  V.  inspecting 


5  EDWARD  IV—Part  III.  497 


1465.  Membranes  17-15 — cent. 

and  confirming    letters    patent    dated  24  March,  2  Henry   lY. 
inspecting  and  confirming  tlie  following : — 

(1.)  A  charter  dated  at  Woodstock,  16  August,  40  Henry  III. 
(2.)  Letters  patent  dated  10  May,  28  Edward  III.  inspecting  and 
confirming  a  charter  dated  at  Westminster,  3  April,  6  Edward 
II.    [Charter  Holly  6  Edward  IL  No,  11,]   inspecting  and 
confirming  the  following : — 

a,  A  charter  dated  at  Westminster,  5  April,  1 1  Henry  III 

b.  A  charter  dated  at  Westminster,  20  June,  11  Henry  III. 

c,  A  charter  dated  at  Woodstock,  16  August,  40  Henry  III. 

d.  A  charter  of  Henry  II.  dated  at  Radnor. 

2.  A  charter  dated  at  Westminster,  21  May,  24  Henry  VI.  ICharter 
Roll,  21-24  Henri/  VL  No.  2.]     For  4  marks  paid  in  the  hanaper. 

Membrane  15 — cont, 

Nov.  15.  Inspeximus  and  confirmation  to  Reginald  Colyer,  the  prior,  and  the 
Westminster,  convent  of  the  church  of  St.  Bartholomew,  Smethefeld,  and  the  master  and 
brethren  of  the  hospital  of  a  charter  dated  at  Westminster,  28  January, 
6  Richard  II.  [Charter  RoUy  5  and  6  Richard  IL  No.  7,]  inspecting  and 
confirming  a  charter  dated  at  Westminster,  10  June,  17  Edward  II. 
inspecting  and  confirming  a  charter  dated  at  Westminster,  10  July,  18 
Edward  I.  [Charter  Roily  18  Edward  L  No.  17,]  inspecting  and  con- 
firming the  following : — 

1.  A  charter  dated  at  Winchester,   15  June,  37  Henry  III.     [Monas- 

ticon.'] 

2.  Another  charter  of  the  same  date  inspecting  and  confirming  a  charter 

of  Henry  II.  dated  at  Rouen.      [For  10  marks  paid  in  the  hanaper. 

Mbmbrane  14. 

Oct.  24.  Inspeximus  and  confirmation  to    William,  the  abbot,  and  the  convent 

Westminster,  of  Melsa  of  letters  patent  dated  24  April,  51  Edward  III.  inspecting  and 
confirming  the  following : — 

1.  A  charter  of  Stephen  dated  at  Dunstable. 

2.  A  charter  of  Henry  II.  dated  at  Bousmolins. 

3.  A  charter  of  Richard  I.  dated  at  Chinon,  20  April. 

4.  A  charter  dated  at  Yemeuil,  9  January,  4  John. 

5.  A  charter  datexl  at  Elton,  15  March,  21  Edward  I. 

6.  A  charter  dated  at  Westminster,  4  October,   22  Edward  I. 

7.  Letters  patent  dated  12  November,  14  Edward  II. 

8.  Letters  patent  dated  16  June,  16  Edward  IL 

For  5  marks  paid  in  the  hanaper. 

MSMBRANB  13. 

Oct.  25.         Inspeximus  and  confirmation  to  Richard  Taweton,  the  abbot,  and  the 
Westminster,  canons  of  Hertiland  of  a  charter  dated  at  Westminster,  16  January,  38 
Edward  III.  [Charter  Roll,  38  Edward  IIL  No.  1,]  inspecting  and  con- 
firming the  following : — 

1.  A  charter  of  Henry  II.  dated  at  Winchester.     [Monasticon,  vol.  vi. 

p.  137.] 

2.  A  charter  dated  at  Westminster,  8  November,  1  Richard  I.     [Ibid,] 

For  40f.  paid  in  the  hanaper. 

1466. 

Feb.  10.  Inspeximus  and  confirmation  to  John  Colville,  knight,  kinsman  and  heir 

Westminster,  of  John  de  Colville,  of  letters  patent  dated  12  February,  27  Edward  III. 

inspecting  and  confirming  to  the  latter  as  kinsman  and  heir  of  Gkofirey  de 

Mariscis  a  charter  dated  at  Woodstock,  20  June,  52  Henry  III.  [Charter 

u    8(914.  I  I 


498 


CALENDAR  OP  PATENT  ROLLS. 


1466.  Membrane  13 — cont, 

Boll^  62  ffenrp  III.  m.  6,]  granting  to  the  said  Geoffrey  free  warren  in 
his  demesne  lands  of  Walesokne,  Hakebech,  Wanton  and  Walepole,  co. 
Norfolk,  and  Tyde  and  Neuton,  co.  Cambridge. 

For  ^  mark  paid  in  the  hanaper. 


1465. 


Membhanb  12. 


Mar.  22.         Inspeximns  and  confirmation  to  the  abbot  and  convent  of  Malmesbury 
Westminster,  of  letters  patent  dated  26  March,  8  Richard  II.  inspecting  and  confirming 
the  following  :— 

1.  A  charter  of  Edward  the  Confessor.     \Mona$Hconj  vol.  i,  p,  258.] 

2.  A  charter  of  Matilda,  queen  of  William  I. 

3.  A  charter  of  Richard  I.  dated  at  Westminster,  6  September. 

4.  A  charter  dated  at  Oxford,  18  July,  17  John.     [Rotidi  Cartarum^  p. 

213.] 

5.  A  charter  dated  at  Woodstock,  3  August,  36  Henry  III.  ^Charier 

Roily  86  Henry  IIL  m.  6.]  For  6  marks  paid  in  the  hanaper. 

1466,  MSMBRANBS   ll-lO. 

Jan.  7.  Inspeximtis  and  confirmation  to  John,  the  abbot,  and  the  convent  of 

Cawood.       Seleby  of  the  following : — 

1.  A  charter  dated  at  Westminster,  G  November,  6  Richard  II.  [Charter 

Boll,  5  and  6  Richard  IL  No.  21,]  inspecting  and  confirming  a 
charter  dated  at  York,  5  March,  2  Edward  III.  iCharter  Roll^  2 
Edward  IIL  No.  77^]  inspecting  and  confirming  a  charter  dated  at 
York,  4  February,   12  Edward  II.  [Charter  Roll^  12  Edward  IT 
No.  26,]  inspecting  and  confirming  the  following : — 
(1.^  A  charter  of  Henry  II.  dated  at  York. 
(2.)  A  charter  dated  at  Canterbury,  5  December,  1  Ridiard  I, 
(3.)  A  charter  dated  at  Westminster,  11  November,  1  Richard  I. 
(4.)  A  charter  dated  at  Winchester,   15  April,  14  Henry  IIL 
inspecting  and  confirming  a  charter  dated  at  York,  26  February, 
5  John. 
(5.)  Another  charter  dated  at  Winchester,  15  April,  14  Henry  III. 
(6.)  A  charter  dated  at  Westminster,  28  April,  14  Edwim  L 
inspecting  and  confirming  a  charter  of  William  I.     [Monastic 
con,  vol.  tit,  p,  499.] 

2.  A  charter  dated  at  York,  6  January,  36  Henry  III.  granting  to  them 

free  warren  in  certain  demesne  lands.  [Charter  Roll^  36  Henry  IIL 
No,  23.]  For  20  marks  paid  in  the  hanaper. 


1465. 


Mbmbranbb  9-7. 


March  8.        Inspeximns  and  confirmation  to  the  abbot  and  convent  of  Oseney  of  the 
Westminster,  following:  — 

1.  A  charter  dated  at  Gloucester,  18  August,  3  Edward  III.  [Charter 
Roll,  3  Edward  III.  No.  24,]  inspecting  and  confirming  a 
charter  dated  at  Westminster,  28  February,  13  Edward  II.  [Charter 
Roil,  13  Edward  II,  No.  10,]  inspecting  and  confirming  the 
foUowing : — 

(1.)  A  charter  of  Henry  I.  dated  at  Woodstock. 
(2.)  (3.)  Two  charters  of  Henry  II.  dated  at  Salisbury. 
(4.)  A  charter  of  the  same  dated  at  Westminster. 
(5.)  A  charter  dated  at  Hadlow,  16  June,  1  John. 
(6.)  A  charter  dated  at  Corfe,  21  Jannary,  16  John. 


6  EDWARD  IV.— Part  III.  499 


1465.  Membranes  9-7 — cont. 

(7.)  A  charter  dated  at  Oxford,  14  July,  15  Henry  III.  [Charter 

Roily  16  Henry  IIL  m.  4.] 
(5.)  A    charter   dated   at    Abiugdon,  2  April,   19  Henry  III. 

[Charter  Roll,  19  Henry  IIL  m.  12.] 
(9.)  A  charter  dated  at  Westminster,  23  January,  51  Henry  III. 
[Charter   Roll,  51  Henry  IIL  m.  9,]  inspecting  and    con- 
firming   with    additions   a    charter  of    Bobert    de  Oylleyo. 
[Monasticon,  vol.  vi.  no.  JF.] 
(10).  A  charter  of  Aelidis,  daughter  of  Godfrey,  duke  of  Lorraine, 

and  wife  of  Henry  I. 
(11. J  A  charter  of  Matilda  the  Empress  dated  at  Oxford. 
(12.)  Numerous  private  grants,  not  dated  or  set  out  at  length. 

2.  Letters  patent  dated  20  September,  10  Richard  11.  granting  to  them  a 

moiety  of  two  mills,  a  meadow  and  a  moiety  of  a  fishery. 

3.  A  charter  of  the  said  Eobert  de  OUeyo  granting  to  them  divers 

liberties. 

4.  A  charter  of  Henry  de  Oylly  granting  to  them  in  frank  almoin  the 

wood  of  Kidelinton  called  '  Kogeswode '  which  they  have  of  the 
grant  of  John  de  Gray,  bishop  of  Norwich,  to  whom  he  granted  it. 

For  40«.  paid  in  the  hanaper. 

1466.  Membranes  6-1. 

Feb.  15.  Intpeximus  of  letters  patent  dated  24  January,  2  Henry  VI.  inspecting 
Westminster,  aud  confirming  to  the  mayor  and  citizens  of  Lincoln  a  charter  dated  at 
Westminster,  15  December,  2  Henry  V.  [Charter  Roll,  2  Henry  V. 
Part  2,  No,  6,]  inspecting  and  confirming  a  charter  dated  at  Westminster, 
21  November,  11  Henry  IV.  [Charter  Roll,  10-12  Henry  IV.  No.  10,] 
inspecting  and  confirming  with  additions  a  charter  dated  at  Westminster, 
16  March,  1  Bichard  II.  [Charter  Roll,  1  RicJiard  II,  No.  15,]  inspecting 
and  confirming  a  charter  dated  at  Windsor,  22  February,  4  Edward  III. 
[Charter  RoUj  4  Edward  IIL  No.  101,]  inspecting  and  confirming  a 
charter  dated  at  Nottingham,  7  October,  1  Edward  IIL  [Charter  Roll, 
I  Edward  IIL  No.  13,]  inspecting  and  confirming  with  additions  a 
charter  dated  at  Westminster,  15  June,  9  Edward  II.  [Charter  Roll, 
9  Edward  IL  No,  1,]  inspecting  and  confirming  with  additions  the 
following : — 

1.  A  charter  of  Henry  II.  dated  at  Stamford. 

2.  A  charter  dated  at  Lincoln,  25  Februtuy,  29  Edward  I.  [Charter 

Roll,  29  Edward  L  No.   31,]   inspecting    and    confirming    the 
following : — 

(1-4.)  Four  charters  of  Henry  U. 

(5.^  A  charter  dated  at  Winchester,  23  April,  5  Richard  I. 

(6.)  A  charter  dated  at  Westminster,  20  April,  1 1  Henry  III. 

(7.)  Letters  patent  dated  7  March,  46  Henry  III.  inspecting  and 
confirming  with  additions  a  charter  of  Henry  II. 

(8.)  A  charter  dated  at  Westminster,  12  February,  56  Henry  III. 
and  confirmation  to  Thomas  Grantham,  now  «inayor,  and  the  citizens  of 
the  said  charter  of  Henry  IV.  and  all  liberties  therein  specified  not  revoked 
by  anthority  of  Parliament  at  Westminster,  4  November,  1  Edward  IV. 

Grant  to  them  also  that  the  towns  and  townships  of  Braunston,  Wadyng- 
ton,  Braoebrigge  and  Canwyk,  which  ai^  within  the  county  of  Lincoln, 
shall  after  Easter  next  be  distinct  and  separate  from  the  body  of  that  county 
and  united  to  and  parcel  of  the  county  of  the  city  of  Lincoln,  and  no  sheriff, 
minister,  justice  or  commissioner  of  Uie  king  shall  meddle  therein,  but  the 
justices  of  the  peace,  coroners  and  escheators  within  the  county  of  the 
city  shall  have  full  power  and  authority,  and  the  inhabitants  shall  be  com- 
pelled to  nuUce  contributions  and  undertake  offices  according  to  their 
ordinaDce.    Chrant  to  them  of  diven  ivmall  sums  exacted  yearly  at  the 

II  2 


600  CALENDAR  OF  PATENT  ROLLS. 


1466.  Membranes  6-1— co»^. 

Exchequer  from  Adam  Eokerell  cf  Lincoln  from  houses  late  of  Ursel  Levj, 
Jew,  of  Wickford,  in  the  parish  of  St.  Mark  the  Evangelist,  from  Robert 
de  Leverton  from  houses  late  of  Diabella,  Jewess,  from  William  son  of 
Warner,  from  Remernus  son  of  John,  from  Thomas  son  of  Peter  of  Lincoln, 
from  Walter  le  Fevre  of  Foleteby  and  Robert  Foure  of  Flotby  from  a 
rent  of  houses  late  of  Bealasset,  Jewess,  from  Geoffrej  de  Escot,  from 
Master  John  de  Bello  Monte,  Walter  Rugemunt,  Gilbert  son  of  Fulk, 
Walter  son  of  Agnes  and  Master  Robert  de  Gravenell  for  certain  messuages 
and  lands,  from  Peter  de  Baillio,  from  William  son  of  Roger,  from  Robert 
Pittemose,  from  houses  late  of  Diabella,  Jewess,  Belasset  de  Waljngford, 
Jewess,  and  Walter  le  Grannt,  from  a  tofl  which  Athelina  le  Parchemanere 
held,  from  the  prior  and  convent  of  St.  Katharine  without  Lincoln,  from 
the  farm  of  a  messuage  late  of  Hagen  son  of  Benedict,  Jew,  of  Lincoln, 
from  Robert  son  of  Ywen,  from  Matilda  de  London  and  Thomas  her  son, 
from  John  Bere  of  Lincoln  from  houses  late  of  James  Levi,  Jew,  in  the 
parish  of  St.  Benedict,  from  William  Gkime  le  Cordewaner  from  houses 
late  of  Floria  de  London,  Jewess,  of  Lincoln,  in  the  parish  of  St  Martin, 
from  Walter  Bek  of  Lincoln  from  houses  late  of  Jude  the  Jew  in  the  bailey 
of  Lincoln,  from  Simon  le  Floure  of  Lincoln  from  houses  late  of  Florias 
de  Lincoln,  Jew,  in  the  pirish  of  St.  Cuthbert,  from  Robert  Venoure 
from  houses  late  of  Hagin  Benedict  in  the  parish  of  St.  Martin,  from 
houses  late  of  Benedict  le  Counte,  Jew,  in  the  parish  of  St.  John  la  Poure, 
from  Peter  de  Coleby  from  houses  late  of  James  Brauncegate,  Jew,  in 
the  parish  of  St.  George,  from  Adam  son  of  Martin  de  Lincoln  from  houses 
late  of  Joceus  Gabias,  Jew,  in  the  parish  of  St.  Michael  on  the  Hill,  from 
John  de  Norwico  of  Lincoln  and  Matilda  his  wife  from  houses  late  of 
Manser  de  Bradeworth  in  the  parish  of  St.  George,  from  Alexander  son 
of  Joan  daughter  of  Martin  de  Lincoln  from  houses  late  of  Salamon  de 
London,  Jew,  in  the  parish  of  St.  Martin,   from  Walter   de  Glouc'  of 
Lincoln  from  houses  late  of  Manser  de  Bradeworth,  Jew,  in  the  parish  of 
St.  George,  houses  late  of  Joceus  de  Colecestre,  Jew,  and  houses  late  of 
Benedict  de  London,  Jew,  in  Brauncegate,  Lincoln,  from  houses  late  of 
Hagin  Calf,  Jew,  from  John  son  of  Simon  le  Pestour  of  Lincoln  from 
houses  late  of  Salomon  de  London.  Jew,  in  Brauncegate,  from  Walter  de 
EJarliolo  of  Lincoln  from  2j.  rent  in  Lincoln  late  of  Elias  Ghiboys,  Jew,  of 
Lincoln,  and  the  place  in  the  city  that  was  the  burying  ground  of  the 
Jews,  from  the  bailiffs  of  the  city  for  the  rent  of  divers  Jews,  from  John 
de  Blythe  of  Lincoln  from  the  custody  of  a  messuage  in  the  suburbs  late 
of  John  Blake  of  Lincoln  and  the  price  of  forfeited  wools,  from  Robert 
Shirwode  from  the  custody  of  a  plot  in  the  suburbs  in  the  king's  hands  by 
reason  of  the  acquisition  of  it  by  the  abb«t  of  Vaudey  without  licence  and 
a  shop  in  the  parish  of  St.  Michael  late  of  Reginald  Host,  who  died  without 
heir,  and  from  Hamo  Sutton  son  and  heir  of  Robert  Sutton  of  Lincoln 
from  three  messuages  in  the  parish  of  St.  Andrew,  and  all  the  above- 
mentioned  premises,  and  a  messuage  in  the  parish  of   St.  Augustine  in 
Beggarsholme   sometime  of  John  de  Harwode  of  Lincoln,  *  cordewaner,* 
outlawed  on  Tuesday  after  the  Translation  of  St.  Edward,  the  King  and 
Martyr,   15  Richard  II.  in  London  at  the  suit  of  William  de  Mam  of 
Cauewyk  on  a  plea  of  debt,  a  ruinous  messuage  in  the  parish  of  St.  Greorge 
late  of  the  said  John,  and  a  stall  in  the  parish  of  St.  Martin,  Dernestafi, 
in  Lincoln  sometime  of  John  de  Kell  outlawed  on  Monday,  the  feast  of  the 
Apostles  Simon  and  Jude,  26  Edward  III.     And  grant  to  them  within  the 
precinct  of  the  said  county  of  the  city  of  goods  and  chattels  of  felons,  fugitives 
and  outkws,  treasure  trove,  waif,  stray,  fines,  ransoms,  year,  day,  strip, 
waste  and  deodand  and  all  that  pertains  to  the  king  from  the  same. 

By  K.  and  for  20#.  paid  in  the  hanaper. 


■'■»» ' 


501 


6  EDWARD  IV.— Paet  I. 


1466. 

April  20. 
W«staun8ter. 


April  25. 
Westminster. 


April  27. 
Westminster. 


May  1. 

Westminster. 


May  9. 

Westminster. 


Majr  7. 
Westminster. 


April  28. 
Westminster. 


AprU  26. 
Westminster.' 


AprU  23« 
Westminster. 


Membrane  26. 

Pai'dons  of  outlawry  to  the  following :— * 
Nicholas  Smyth  late  of  Westmersey,  co.  Essex,  *  husbondman/  for 
not  appearing  before  the  justices  of  the  Bench  to  answer  John 
Weynshed,  citizen  and  <  bocher '  of  London,  touching  a  debt  of  14/., 
he  having  surrendered  to  the  Flete  prison,  as  Kobert  Danby,  knight, 
chief  justice  of  the  Bench,  has  certified.  London^ 

John  Stoue  of  Holdesworthy,  co.  Devon,  ^  husbondman,'  for  not 
appearing  before  John  Prysot  and  his  fellows,  justices  of  the  Bench 
of  the  late  king,  to  answer  Thomas  Clement  touching  a  debt  of  40^. 

Devon. 

Thomas  Smyth  late  of  Shirborne,  oo.  Dorset, '  yoman,'  executor  of  the 
will  of  William  Smyth  alias  Wodiand,  for  not  appearing  before  the 
justices  of  the  Bench  to  answer  a  plea  that  he  and  Edith  Wodiand 
late  of  Shirborne,  *  wedow,'  late  the  wife  of  the  said  William  and 
co-executrix  of  his  will,  should  render  I06s.  Sd.  to  Andrew  James, 
'  marchaunt.'  Town  of  Southampton. 

William  Andrewe  late  of  London,  *  yoman,'  and  Elizabeth  his  wife, 
late  the  wife  of  Henry  Halewell,  late  citizen  and  'stokfyssh- 
raonger'  of  London,  who  died  intestate,  and  administratrix  of 
his  goods,  for  not  appearing  to  answer  a  plea  that  they  render 
34L  13f.  4d.  to  Lawrence  Henclyff,  citizen  and  butcher  of  London. 

London. 

Edward  Danyell  late  of  Bedford,  *  chapman,'  for  not  appearing  before 
Robert  Danby  and  his  fellows  of  the  Bench  to  answer  Richard 
Everley,  citizen  and  mercer  of  London,  and  John  Faukys,  derk, 
touching  a  debt  of  28/.  5«.  9d.  London. 

Robert  Bullok  of  St.  Neots,  co.  Huntingdon,  'gentilman,'  for  not 
appearing  before  John  Prysot  and  his  fellows,  justices  of  the  Bench 
of  the  late  king,  to  answer  Henry  Tole,  citizen  and  brewer  of 
London,  touching  a  debt  of  16  marks  10^.  Middlesex. 

Thomas  Gardyner  late  of  Salisbury,  co.  Wilts,  derk,  for  not  appearing 
before  the  justices  of  the  Bench  to  answer  Andrew  Jamys, 
*  marchaunt,*  touching  a  debt  of  61.  Idf.  4d. 

Town  of  Southampton. 

Walter  Milner  late  of  Wermyngton,  co.  Northampton,  'chapman,'  for 
not  appearing  before  Richard  Newtou  and  his  fellows,  justices  of 
the  Bench  of  the  late  king,  to  answer  William  Rouceby  of  Staunford, 
chaplain,  touching  a  debt  of  19  marks.  Lincoln. 

John  Browene  of  Mayden  Bradley,  co.  Wilts,  butcher,  for  not  appear* 
ing  before  the  justices  of  the  Bench  to  answer  Thomas  Rygby  of 
London,  'gentilman,'  touching  a  debt  of  12/.  due  from  himsdf  and 
William  Harres  of  Mayden  Bradley,  '  husbondman.'  London. 

William  Roberde  of  Walpole,  co.  Norfolk,  '  husbondman,'  for  not 
appearing  to  answer  John  Massyngham  touching  a  debt  of  40/. 

Norfolk. 

Richard  Salkeld  late  of  Ormeshed,  co.  Westmoreland,  esquire,  for  not 
appearing  before  John  Prysot  and  Jiis  fellowsi  justices  of  the  Bench 


502 


6  EDWARD  IV.— Part  I. 


1466. 


May  14. 

Westmiiuter. 


April  23. 
Westminster. 


June  18. 
Westminster. 

June  19. 
Westminster. 

Oct.  20. 

Westminster. 


Membrane  25 — cont, 

of  the  late  king,  to  answer  John  Bere  and  Richard  Whele  toudiing 
two  debts  of  20/.  Middlesex. 

Richard  Mofford  of  Irynham,  c6.  Lincoln,  <  yoman^'  for  not  appearing 
before  the  king  when  sued  with  William  Martyndale  of  Neweton  in 
Alderdale,  co.  Cnmberland,  knight,  Richard  Kirkebride  of  Wjgdon 
in  Alderdale,  co.  Cumberland,  esquire,  Bartholomew  Laucher  of 
Wygdon  in  Alderdale,  '  yoman,'  and  John  Nele  of  Newecastell, 
'  wever,'  to  answer  William  Colom  touching  a  trespass.       Lincoln. 

Thomas  Barton  late  of  London,  'gentilman,*  for  not  appearing  before 
John  Pry  sot  and  his  fellows,  justices  of  the  Bench  of  the  late 
kuig,  to  answer  Gilbert  Pulvertoft,  *  gentilman/  touching  a  debt  of 
40«.  London. 

Gilbert  Standyssh  of  Totenho,  co.  Buckingham, '  gentilman,'  for  not 
appearing  before  the  justices  of  the  Bench  to  answer  William 
Walton,  citizen  and  goldsmith  of  London,  touching  a  debt  of  12/. 

London. 

William  Veysy  of  Bokyngham,  co.  Buckingham,  *yoman,'  for  not 
appearing  before  John  Prisot  and  his  fellows,  justices  of  the  Bench 
of  the  late  king,  to  answer  John  Bethewater  touching  a  debt  of  40*. 

Bedford. 

William  Hemmyng  late  of  Bradfeld,  co.  Norfolk,  clerk,  for  not  ap  - 
pearing  before  the  justices  of  the  Bench  to  answer  John  Norman, 
chaplain,  touching  a  debt  of  4  marks.  City  of  Norwich. 

Simon  Maddy  late  of  Fendrayton,  co.  Cambridge,  *  husbondman,'  for 
not  appearing  to  answer  Thomas  Wynkefeld  of  Ware,  co.  Heiiford, 
touching  a  debt  of  20/.  Hertford. 

Henry  Makeney  late  of  Makeney,  co.  Berks,  '  gentilman,'  alias  of 
Causham,  co.  Berks,  for  not  appearing  before  John  Prysot  and  his 
fellows,  justices  of  the  Bench  of  the  late  king,  to  answer  William 
Russell,  *  citezen  '  and  *  draper '  of  London,  and  Thomas  Male,  citizen 
and  skinner  of  London,  touching  debts  of  4  marks  and  40*.  respect- 
tively.  London. 


May  2. 
Westminster. 


May  9. 

Westminitcr. 


April  23. 
Westminster. 


May  7. 

Westminster. 


June  16. 
Westminster. 


Membrane  24. 

John  Nedyrton  of  Bodman,  co.  Cornwall,  'chapman,'  for  not  ap- 
pearing to  answer  William  Redknape,  citizen  and  mercer  of  London, 
touching  a  debt  of  16/.  I3s.  Ad,  *  Middlesex. 

John  Strafforth  of  Berfeld,  co.  York,  '  milner,'  for  not  appearing 
to  answer  Nicholas  Morley,  esquire,  John  Piysot  and  Thomas 
Hauchet  touching  a  debt  of  10/.  Middlesex. 

William  Stokton  late  of  the  city  of  York,  merchant,  for  not  appearing 

before  the  justices  of  the  Bench  to  answer  Geoffrey  Feldyng,  late 

alderman,  citizen  and  mercer  of  London,  touching  debts  of  30/.  and 

•  30/.  18^.  4c/.  and  John  Croke  of  London, '  gentilman,'  touching  a  debt 

of  16/.  13*.  4f/.  York. 

William  Durham,  perpetual  vicar  of  the  church  of  Bridkirke  in  Aller- 
dale,  CO.  Cumberland,  for  not  appearing  to  answer  Thomas,  prior 
of  St.  Mary's,  Gysburn  in  Clyveland,  co.  York,  touching  a  debt  of 
1^/.  York. 

William  Moppe  of  Westworcombe,  co.  Devon,  *helyer,'  for  not 
appearing  before  John  Prysot  and  his  fellows,  justices  of  the  Bench 
of  the  late  king,  when  sued  wiUi  Denis  Moppe  of  Westworcombe, 


•f 


6  BDWABD  IV.— Pabt  I. 


503 


1466. 


Juno  16. 
Westminster. 

June  18. 
Westminster. 


June  21. 

Westminster. 


June  2. 
Westminster. 


June  21. 
Westminster. 


June  22. 
Westmiastcr. 


Juno  18. 
Westminiter. 


July  5. 
Westminster. 


July  5. 
Westminster. 


July  7. 

Westminster. 


Membrane  24 — cont. 

'  husbondman/  John  Crewys  of  Mortbo,  co.  Devon,  ^  husbondman/ 
and  John  Meryell  of  Burghberton,  co.  Devon,  *  husbondman,'  to 
answer  Humphrey  Poyntz  touching  a  trespass.  Devon. 

John  Eoberdys  late  of  Leicester, '  draper,'  for  not  appearing  before 
the  justices  of  the  Bench  to  answer  John  Heynes,  *  citezyn  and 
draper  *  of  London,  and  William  Shukburgh,  *  citezyn  and  draper ' 
of  London,  touching  a  debc  of  65«.  11^^.  Leicester* 

William  Ci-abbe  late  of  Worcester,  ^yoman,'  for  not  appearing  to 
answer  Thomas  Blunt  and  Anne  his  wife  touching  a  debt  of  5  marks. 

Hereford. 

William  Tyndale  of  Northampton, '  chandeler,'  for  not  appearing  before 
John  Pryeot  and  his  fellows,  justices  of  the  Bench  of  the  late  king, 
to  answer  Edmund  Raymond,  citizen  and  fishmonger  of  London, 
touching  a  debt  of  22/.  18^.  id.  Northampton. 

Hugh  Clyderhowe  late  of  Kyngeston  on  Hull,  '  marchaunt,'  son  of 
Hugh  Clyderhowe  of  Kyngeston  on  Hull  the  elder  for  not  appearing 
before  the  justices  of  the  Bench  to  answer  Henry  Nederhose, 
merchant  of  Almain,  touching  a  debt  of  40/.  Middlesex. 

Richard  Warde,  parson  of  the  church  of  Geldeston,  co.  Norfolk,  for  not 
appearing  to  answer  a  plea  that  he  render  40s,  to  Elizabeth  the  relict 
of  Thomas  Canynges,  late  citizen,  grocer  and  alderman  of  London, 
and  executrix  of  his  will.  London. 

Richard  Hoberd  of  Monkys  Illy,  co.  Suffolk,  *  husbondman,'  for  not 
appearing  before  John  Prysot  and  hib  fellows,  justices  of  the  Bench 
of  the  late  king,  to  answer  Richard  Rote  of  Glemsford,  co.  Suffolk, 
touching  a  debt  of  100s.  London. 

John  Shephurd  of  Terdley,  co.  Hertford,  '  husbondman,'  for  not 
appearing  before  Robert  Danby,  knight,  and  hid  fellows,  justices  of 
the  Bench,  to  answer  Laurence,  bishop  of  Durham,  touching  a  debt 
of  28/.  les.  2d.  Middlesex. 

Thomas  Himyng  of  Dowenham,  co.  Suffolk,'shepherd,'  for  not  appearing 
before  John  Prysot  and  his  fellows,  justices  of  the  Bench  of  the  late 
king,  when  sued  with  John  Albon,  'laborer,'  Richard  Hyhoe, 
*  shepherd,'  John  Curteys,  *  laborer,'  and  John  Grelon,  *  laborer,'  all 
of  Dowenham,  to  answer  John,  prior  of  the  church  of  St.  Mary, 
Thetford,  touching  a  trespass.  Norfolk. 

Richard  Basset  late  of  Worcester  the  younger,  *  goldsmyth,'  for  not 
appearing  before  Robert  Danby,  knight,  and  }n&  fellows,  justices  of 
the  Bench,  to  answer  William  Poiter,  citizen  and  goldsmith  of 
London,  touching  a  debt  of  50;.  London. 

Thomas  Emeryngall  late  of  Hadley,  co.  Suffolk,  *  clotheman,'  for  not 
appearing  to  answer  William  liedknape,  citizen  and  mercer  of 
London,  touching  a  debt  of  53s.  Sd.  London. 

John  Clare  of  WodehuU,  co.  Bedford,  *  husbondman,'  for  not  appearing 
before  John  Prysot  and  his  fellows,  justices  of  the  Bench  of  the  late 
king,  to  answer  Thomas  Throgmerton  and  Thomas  Frowyk  touching 
a  debt  of  4/.  Middlesex. 

William  Gauge  of  Henwyk,  co.  Bedford,  ^husbondman,'  for  not 
appearing  to  answer  the  same  for  a  like  debt.  Middlesex. 

Robert  Page  late  of  Northon,  co.  Wilts,  *merchaunt,'  for  not  appearing 
to  answer  Augustin  Salvaigo,  merchant  of  Genoay  touching  a  debt  of 
13/.  2;.  Sd.  London* 


504 


CALENDAR  OP  PATENT  EOLLS. 


1467. 

Jan.  28. 

Westminster. 


1466. 

Jnly  2. 
Westminster. 


June  11. 

Westminbter. 


July  10. 
Westminster. 


July  11. 


Oct.  10. 

Westminster. 


Membrane  24 — cant. 

Wiliiam  Raff  late  of  London,  clerk,  for  not  appearing  before  the  justioes 
of  the  Bench  to  answer  Nicholas  Bungey,  clerk,  touching  a  debt  of 
71.  Ss.  London. 


Thomas  Lee  of  Kyngeston  on  Thames,  co.  Surrey,  *  mercer,'  for  not 
appearing  before  John  Prfsot  and  bis  fellows,  justices  of  the  Bench 
of  the  late  king,  to  answer  Ralph  Marche  touching  a  debt  of 
141.  38.  lOd.  Surrey. 

Joan  Tylby  late  of  Wyncestre,  co.  Southampton,  widow,  for  not 
appearing  before  Robert  Danby,  knight,  and  his  fellows,  justices  of 
the  Bench,  to  answer  Thomas  Gylmyn  of  London,  *  grocer,'  touching 
a  debt  of  60s.  London. 

Henry  Abraham  late  of  Cambridge,  clerk,  for  not  appearing  before  the 
justices  of  the  Bench  to  answer  John  l?aplyt,  *  chaplain,'  touching  a 
debt  of  20/.  Suffolk. 

John  Bukyngham  late  of  Northamptou, '  gentilman,'  for  not  appearing 
to  answer  Master  John  Walker,  clerk,  touching  a  debt  of  14/. 

Northampton. 

Stephen  Twychener  late  of  Famburgh,  co.  Southampton, '  yoman,'  for 
not  appearing  when  sued  with  William  Twychener  of  Famburgh, 
^  husbondman,'  to  answer  Richard  Forster  touching  a  trespass. 

Southampton. 

John  Smyth  of  Wyghey  in  the  parish  of  Regat,  co.  Surrey, '  smyth,' 
for  not  appearing  to  answer  Nicholas  Ayssheton,  William  Burton, 
clerk,  and  Martin  Robert,  executors  of  the  will  of  Walter  Robyn, 
late  parson  of  Notfelde,  touching  a  debt  of  405.  Surrey. 

John  Hertwell  of  Gedyngton,  co.  Northampton,  'chapman,'  for  not 
appearing  to  answer  John  Wendy  touching  a  debt  of  69f.  1^. 

London. 

Geoffrey  Wodeley  late  of  Paunsfottescourte  in  the  parish  of  Monesley, 
CO.  Hereford,  *  yoman,'  alias  late  of  Ledbury,  co.  Hereford. 
'  husboodman.'  for  not  appearing  to  answer  John  Iwardeby, 
esquire,  and  Joan  his  wife  touching  a  debt  of  20/.  Hereford. 


\ 


July  8. 
Weftminster. 


Membrane  23. 

Ro^rt  Bodenham  late  of  Porchestre,  co.  Southampton,  'gentilman,' 
for  not  appearing  before  the  king  when  sued  with  William 
Lewte, '  yoman,'  John  Worsele,  ^  yoman,'  Henry  Bruyn,  knight,  and 
John  Benet,  *  yoman,'  all  of  Porchestre,  to  answer  Henry  Tren- 
chard,  esquire,  touching  a  trespass,  and  when  sued  with  William 
Lewte,  Thomas  Crosse  late  of  Porchestre,  'yoman,'  John  Benet, 
John  Berde  late  of  Neuport  in  the  Isle  of  Wight,  '  yoman,'  Henry 
Jackson  late  of  Neuport,  *  yoman,'  John  Croke  late  of  Tychefeld, 
CO.  Southampton,  '  baker,'  Richard  Cook  late  of  Faram,  co.  South- 
ampton, '  taiilour,'  Thomas  Forbour  late  of  Faram,  'yoman,'  John 
Woi-seley,  Robert  Botreux  late  of  Fordyngbrigge,  co.  Southampton, 
*  yoman,'  Henry  Bruyn,  Louis  Dyngeley  late  of  Shorwell,  co. 
Southampton,  '  gentilman,'  Thomas  Legge  late  of  Caresbroke,  co. 
Southampton,  'yoman,'  Hugh  Grygge  late  of  Neuport,  'yoman/ 
Thomas  Anerhiil  late  of  Neuport,  '  yoman,'  Richard  Aleyn  late  of 
Neuport,  '  yoman,'  Henry  Erlesman  late  of  Shorwell,  '  yoman,'  and 
John  Tryppc  late  of  Faram,  'yoman,'  for  the  like.        Southampton. 


6  EDWABD  IV.— PxBT  1. 


506 


1466. 

Oct  13. 

Westminster. 


Oct.  13. 

Westminster. 

Oct.  20. 

Westminster. 


Oct  24. 

Westminster. 


Oct  9. 

Westminster. 


Oct  26- 

Westminster. 


Oct  27. 

Westminster. 


Oct  9. 

Westminster. 


Oct  24. 
Westminster. 

Oct  28. 

Westminster. 


Membrane  2^—eont. 

Balph  Coton  late  of  Laken,  co.  Salop,  ^  gentilman/  for  not  appearing 
before  the  justices  of  the  Bench  to  answer  Thomas  Ottelej  of 
Shrewsbury,  merchant,  touching  a  debt  of  35/.  Salop. 

John  a  Wode  of  Boarton,  co.  Buckingham,  <  husbondman,'  for  not 
appealing  to  answer  William  Puryfej,  esquire,  touching  a  debt  of 
43«.  4d.  Buckingham. 

John  Wattys  late  of  Morton,  co.  Buckingham,  '  carpenter,'  for  not 
appearing  before  John  Prjsot  and  his  fellows,  justices  of  the 
Bench  of  the  late  king,  to  answer  William  Derant  touching  a  debt 
of  28  marks.  Devon. 

John  Hyue  late  of  Langford  Lester,  co.  Devon,  *  husbondman,'  for 
not  appearing  before  the  justices  of  the  Bench  to  answer  a  plea  that 
he  render  111^.  6^d.  to  John  Kemmys,  executor  of  the  will  of 
William,  lord  Botreaux,  knight.  Somerset. 

Bichard  Gornyssh  late  of  Dupfoi*d,  co.  Devon, '  husbondman,'  for  not 
appearing  to  answer  a  plea  that  he  render  100«.  to  the  said 
executor.  Somerset. 

Reginald  Basset  late  of  Guldeford,  co.  Surrey,  clerk,  for  not  appearing 
to  answer  a  plea  that  he  render  20  marks  to  Humphrey  Henster  and 
William  Bowe,  executors  of  the  will  of  John  Foche,  late  parson  of 
the  church  of  St  Margaret,  Briggestrete,  London.  Middlesex. 

Thomas  Hesketh  late  of  Great  Steynton,  co.  Cumberland,  '  husbond* 
man,'  for  not  appearing  before  John  Prisot  and  his  fellows,  justices 
of  the  Bench  of  the  late  king,  to  answer  Agnes  Laton,  ¥ridow, 
touching  a  debt  of  6  marks.  London. 

Thomas  Tokerman  of  Skeredon  in  the  parish  of  Den  Pryour,  co. 
Devon,  'husbondman,'  for  not  appearing  to  answer  John  Glyn 
touching  a  debt  of  40«.  Devon. 

Richard  Lyng  of  Burton  on  Trent,  co.  Stafford,  'yoman,'  ali(u 
'  wolmonger,'  for  not  appearing  before  the  said  justices  to  answer 
Margaret,  late  queen  of  England,  touching  a  debt  of  20/.  and  before 
the  justices  of  the  Bench  of  the  present  king  to  answer  Richard 
Heywood  of  Coventre, '  mercer,'  touching  a  debt  of  5  marks. 

Stafford.     Coventry. 

William  Andrewe  late  of  Layboume,  co.  Kent, '  husbondman,'  for  not 
appearing  before  the  justices  of  the  Bench  to  answer  a  plea  that  h» 
render  4/.  to  Thomas  Royner  the  elder,  Humphrey  Heyford,  John 
Aleyn  and  Richard  Galyon,  citizens  and  goldsmiths  of  London, 
executors  of  the  will  of  Matthew  Halle,  late  citizen  and  '  goldsmyth ' 
of  London.  London. 

Nicholas  Palmer  late  of  Aulton,  co.  Southampton,  '  yoman,'  for  not 
appearing  before  Robert  Danby  and  his  fellows,  justices  of  the 
Bench,  to  answer  Hugh  Pakenham  touching  a  debt  of  20  marks. 

Middlesex. 

Nicholas  Shaxton  late  of  Norwich,  '  fremason,'  for  not  appearing 
before  the  justices  of  the  Bench  to  answer  Hugh  Levely  and 
Thomas  Levely  touching  a  debt  of  46f .  6d,  Lincoln. 

Thomas  Thakker  of  Sarflete,  co.  Dncoln,  *  yoroan,'  for  not  appearing 
to  answer  Jotin  Davyson,  clerk,  touching  a  trespass.  Lincoln. 

John  Pengelley  of  Trewardryth,  co.  Cornwall,  *  gentilman,'  alias  late 
of  London,  for  not  appearing  to  answer  David  Selby,  esquire, 
touching  a  debt  of  40^.,  aud  to  answer  a  plea  that  he  render  40«. 


506 


CA^NDAR  OF  PATENT  BOLLS. 


1466. 


Oct.  14. 

Westminster. 


Oct.  20. 

Westminster. 

Nov.  4. 
Westminster. 


Oct.  28. 
Westminster. 

Nov.  4. 

Westminster. 


Membrane  23 — c(mt. 

to  Elizabeth  the  relict  of  Thomas  CanTOcesy  citizen,  grocer  and 
alderman  of  London,  and  executor  of  his  will. 

London.     Middlesex* 

William  Arnold  late  of  Wjlton,  co.  York,  chaplain,  for  not  appearing 
to  answer  a  plea  of  Richard  Ljndeley  that  he  together  with  John 
Gasebj  late  of  Wilton  in  Cleveland,  co.  York,  chaplain,  and  John 
Richemond  late  of  Rndby,  co.  York,  chaplain,  broke  the  house  of 
the  said  Richard  at  Shoterskef,  carried  off  his  goods  and  chattels 
and  assaulted  Alice  Hastynges  his  servant.  York. 

John  Marchall  of  Stortford,  co.  Hertford,  ^  yoman,'  for  not  appearing 
to  render  his  account  to  Roger  Payn  for  the  time  when  he  was  his 
receiver.  Hertford. 

John  Gierke  late  of  Excetyr,  co.  Devon, '  marchaunt/  for  not  appear- 
ing before  John  Prysot  and  his  fellows,  justices  of  the  Bench  of 
the  late  king,  to  answer  William  Wodeward,  citizen  and  goldsmith 
of  London,  touching  a  debt  of  6/.  London. 

John  Spryngold  late  of  Luton,  co.  Bedford,  '  husbondman,'  for  not 
appearing  before  the  justices  of  the  Bench  to  answer  John  Cokayn, 
esquire,  touching  a  debt  of  40/.  London. 

John  How  alias  Hunt  of  Comberalegh,  co.  Devon,  *  yoman,*  for  not 
appearing  before  Robert  Dan  by  and  his  fellows,  justices  of  the 
Bench,  to  answer  William  Denys,  esquire,  touching  a  debt  of 
25/.  6s.  8d.  London. 


Membrane  22, 


Oct.  24. 

Westminster. 


Oct.  26. 

Westminster. 


Oct.  27. 

Westminster. 


Oct.  11. 

Westnunster. 

Nov.  4, 

Westminster. 


Oct.  9. 


William  Warde  of  Sharnbroke,  co.  Bedford,  '  husbondman,'  for  not 
appearing  before  John  Prysot  and  his  fellows,  justices  of  the 
Bench  of  the  late  king,  to  answer  John,  abbot  of  the  monastery  of 
St.  Mary  de  Pratis,  Leicester,  touching  a  debt  of  40/.        Leicester. 

Robert  Glaygate  of  Byrlyng,  co.  Kent,  ^husbondman,'  for  not  appear- 
ing before  the  justices  of  the  Bench  to  answer  a  plea  that  he  render 
4/.  to  Thomas  Reyner  the  elder,  Humphrey  Hay  ford,  John  Aleyn 
and  Richard  Galyon,  citizens  and  goldsmiths  of  Lond<m,  executors 
of  the  will  of  Matthew  HalJe,  late  citizen  and  'goldsmyth'  of 
London.  London. 

Simon  Danke  late  of  Byrlyng,  ^  hnsbondmau,'  for  the  like.        London. 

Robert  Somerfeld  late  of  Marleborough,  co.  Wilts,  ^  chapman,'  for  not 
appearing  before  Robeit  Danby  and  his  fellows,  justices  of  the 
Bench,  to  answer  William  Sewester,  citizen  and  mercer  of  Loudon, 
touching  a  debt  of  10/.  London. 

Roger  Dyconson  of  Botheby  in  the  parish  of  Welton,  co.  Lincoln, 
^  husbondman,'  for  not  appearing  before  the  justices  of  tlie  Bench 
to  answer  John  Dymmok,  esquire,  touchiog  a  debt  of  20/.     Lincoln. 

Robert  Skylman  of  Biislyngfeld,  co.  Cambridge,  ^  husbondman,'  for 
not  appearing  before  John  Prysot  and  his  fellows,  justices  of  the 
Bench  of  the  late  king,  to  answer  a  plea  that  he  render  AOs,  to 
John  Brid  son  of  Thomas  Bryd  and  Thomas  Middelton  of  Walden, 
executors  of  the  will  of  Thomas  Bryd.  Cambridge. 

Thomas  Beverley  of  Fyssherton  Ajicher,  co.  Wilts,  *  yoman,'  for  not 
appearing  before  the  justices  of  the  Bench  to  answer  Walter  Bergh 
touchiug  a  debt  of  40«.  Wilts. 


6  BDWABD  IV.— Pabt  I. 


607 


1467. 

Nov.  6. 

Westminfltor. 

Nov.  5. 
Westminster. 


Nov.  6. 
Westminster. 

Oct.  24. 
Westminster. 

Nov.  11. 
Westminster. 


Oct.  15. 
Westminster. 

Nov.  20. 
Westminster. 

Oct.  12. 

Westminster. 

Oct.  13. 

Westminster. 

Nov.  11. 
Westminster. 

Nov.  12. 
Westminster. 


Nov.  17. 
Westminster. 


Oct.  15. 
Westminster. 


Membrane  22 — cont, 

John  Eyngyston  late  of  Guldeford,  co.  Surrey,  ^hosteler,'  for  not 
appettring  to  answer  Thomas  Grjlmjn  of  London,  *  grocer/  touching 
a  debt  of  68«.  London. 

Robert  Osbaru  late  of  London,  *  gentylman,'  alias  late  of  Thorp,  co. 
Surrey,  alieu  Bobert  Osberne  late  of  Henton,  co.  Wilts,  for  not 
appearing  before  John  Prvsot  and  his  fellows,  justices  of  the  Bench 
of  the  late  king,  to  answer  Geoffrey  Boleyn,  citizen  and  mercer  of 
London,  and  John  Spycer  the  elder  of  Stanes,  co.  Middlesex, 
'chapman,'  touching  a  debt  of  4/.  10^.  lef., Thomas  Colyn  of  Stanes, 
'yoman,'  and  John  Horell,  citizen  and  '  dyer '  of  London,  touching 
a  debt  of  40;.,  and  John  Lambard  or  Lambert  of  the  parish  of 
St.  Clement  Danes  without  Temple  Bar,  London, '  sadeller,'  touching 
a  debt  of  40;.  London.     Middlesex. 

John  Penne  late  of  Hagley,  co.  Worcester,  '  yoman,'  for  not  appearing 
before  the  justices  of  the  Bench  to  answer  Thomas  Hulle  touching 
a  debt  of  40;.  and  a  trespass.  Worcester. 

Bichard  Laurens  of  Tylbury,  co.  !Elssex,  '  yoman,*  for  not  appearing 
to  answer  Thomas  Cook,  alderman,  citizen  and  clothier  of  London, 
touching  a  debt  of  40;.  London. 

Richard  Pylton  late  of  Seynt  Ivys,  co.  Huntingdon,  *  yoman,'  for  not 
appearing  before  John  Prysot  and  his  fellows,  justices  of  the  Bench 
of  the  late  king,  to  answer  John  Knyfe,  citizen  and  '  corsour '  of 
London,  touching  a  debt  of  4  marks.  London. 

Thomas  Erie  late  of  Thurrok,  co.  Essex,  *  halywaterclerk,'  for  not 
appearing  before  the  justices  of  the  Bench  to  answer  Thomas  Quyne, 
citizen  and  '  fysshemonger '  of  London,  touching  a  debt  of  4S;.  Sd, 

London. 

• 

William  Sybson  of  Barnby  in  the  parish  of  Houden^  co.  York,  the 
younger,  '  husbondman,'  and  Cecily  his  wife  for  not  appearing  to 
answer  Kichard  Skynner  touching  a  trespass.  York. 

William  Lagharne  late  of  Truruburgh,  co.  Cornwall,  '  gentilman,'  for 
not  appearing  to  answer  Bichard  Vynccnt,  clerk,  touching  a  debt 
of  5  marks.  Kent. 

John  Yorke  of  Lobthorpe,  co.  Lincoln, '  yoman,'  for  not  appearing  to 
answer  the  prior  of  the  Hospital  of  St.  John  of  Jerusalem  in  England 
touching  a  trespass.  Lincoln. 

John  Fuller  late  of  Morle  by  Attilburgh,  co.  Norfolk,  *  thaxster,'  for 
not  appearing  to  answer  John  Wryght  of  Assh  by  Campesse  touching 
a  debt  of  58;.  Bd.  Suffolk. 

John  Ballard  late  of  Fordyngbryge,  co.  Southampton,  '  laborer,'  for 
not  appearing  to  answer  John  Sterlyng  touching  a  debt  of  40/. 

London. 

William  Grove  of  Worcester,  ^  mercer,'  for  not  appearing  to  answer 
John  Dyer  of  Malmesbury,  co.  AVilts,  ^  mercer,'  touching  a  debt  of 
5  marks.  Middlesex. 

Nicholas  Gaynsford  of  Moreton,  co.  Essex,  chaplain,  for  not  appearing 
to  answer  William  Tyrell,  knight,  alias  William  Tyrell  of  Beches, 
late  esquire,  touching  a  debt  of  100;.  Essex. 

Roger  London  late  of  Colchester,  co.  Essex,  merchant,  for  not  appearing 
to  answer  John  Hawkyn,  citizen  and  draper  of  London,  touching  a 
debt  of  4/.  19;.  Middlesex. 

Thomas  Dale  late  of  Bexkeford,  co.  Bedford,  esquire,  for  not  appearing 
to  answer  William  Bede,  esquire,  touching  a  debt  of  20/. 

Buckingham. 


508 


CALENDAR  OF  PATENT  ROLLS. 


1466. 

Nov.  19. 
Wectminster. 


Oct.  25. 

Weitiuiuster. 

Nor.  19. 
Westminster. 


Nov.  17. 
Westmiattter. 


Membrane  22 — corU. 

Robert  Melljs  late  of  Higham,  co.  Suffolk,  ^  fuller/  for  not  appearing 
to  answer  Richard  Lee,  citizen^  grocer  and  alderman  of  London,  and 
John  Stokes,  citizen  and  grocer  of  London,  touching  a  debt  of  42«. 

London. 

John  Armjn  late  of  Loathe,  co.  Lincoln,  *  chapman,*  for  not  appearing 
to  answer  Robert  Freman,  citizen  and  *  h&berdassher '  of  London, 
touching  a  debt  of  43^.  6^d.  London. 

Roger  Yonge  late  of  Sayton,  co.  Rutland,  '  husbondman,'  for  not 
appearing  before  John  Prysot  and  his  fellows,  justices  of  the  Bench 
of  the  late  king,  to  answer  Thomas  Boughton,  esquire,  touching  a 
debt  of  20/.  Warwick. 

Richard  Hobson  of  Great  Dryffeld,  co.  York,  *  husbondman,'  for  not 
appe^kring  before  the  justices  of  the  Bench  to  answer  the  prior  of  the 
church  of  St.  Mary,  Gromonf,  touching  a  trespass.  York. 


Oct.  9. 
Westminster. 


Nov.  21. 
Westminster. 

Oct.  11. 

Westminster. 


Oct.  9. 
Westminster. 

Oct.  18. 
Westminster. 

Nov.  22. 
Westminster. 

Nov.  10. 
Westminster. 


Oct  12. 

Westminster. 


Membrane  21. 

John  Colyns  of  Fakenham  by  Hempton,  co.  Norfolk,  ^  smyth,'  for  not 
appearing  before  John  Prysot  and  his  fellows,  justices  of  the  Bench 
of  the  late  king,  to  answer  James  Andrewys  touching  a  debt  of  63«. 
and  to  answer  a  plea  that  he  render  a  horse  worth  40f.  and  chattels 
to  the  value  of  40^.  to  John,  abbot  of  the  monastery  of  St.  Mary  de 
Pratis  by  Creyk.  Norfolk. 

Richard  Broun  of  Ednam,  co.  Lincoln,  'husbondman,'  executor  of 
the  will  of  Adam  Richardson  late  of  Ednam,  and  Richard  Boucher 
of  Ednam,  '  boucher/  and  Joan  his  wife,  late  the  wife  of  the  said 
Adam  and  co-executrix  of  his  will,  for  not  appearing  before  the 
justices  of  the  Bench  to  answer  the  prior  of  the  monastery  of  St. 
Mary,  Bridlyngton,  touching  a  debt  of  40/.  York. 

Thomas  Baker  of  Eydon  Mounte,  co.  Essex,  the  younger, '  husbond- 
man,' for  not  appearing  before  the  king  to  answer  William  Herde 
touching  a  trespass.  Essex. 

John  Hanham  late  of  Tenderyng,  co.  Essex,  the  younger, '  gentilman,' 
for  not  appearing  before  the  justices  of  the  Bench  to  answer  a  plea 
that  he  render  40^.  to  Elizabeth,  relict  of  Thomas  Canynges,  citizen, 
grocer  and  alderman  of  London,  and  executrix  of  his  will. 

London. 

William  Burrell  of  Dankestyr,  co.  York,  ^  yoman,'  for  not  appearing 
to  answer  James  Marenell  touching  a  debt  of  4  marks  Zs,  4d. 

York. 

Richard  Gaj  late  of  Mylton  Damerell,  co.  Devon,  ^  husbondman,'  for 
not  appearing  before  the  king  to  answer  William  Corum  touching  a 
trespass.  Surrey. 

William  Kemster  of  Fiytwyke,  co.  Bedford,  *  husbondman,'  for  not 
appearing  before  the  justices  of  the  Bench  to  answer  Jdin  Manyng- 
ham,  esquire,  touching  a  debt  of  lOOs.  Bedford. 

David  Baron  of  Wenyngton,  co.  Stafford,  'husbondman,'  for  not 
appearing  before  John  Prysot  and  his  fellows,  justices  of  the  Bench 
of  the  late  king,  to  answer  John  Tagge  touching  a  debt  of  40f . 

Stafford. 

Thomas  Donyngton  of  Blaktofte,  co.  York,  'yoman,'  for  not  appearing 
before  the  justices  of  the  Bench  to  answer  Richard  Wakefeld 
touching  a  trespass.  Hertford. 


6  EDWARD  IV.-  Pabt  I. 


509 


1466. 

Nov.  22. 
Westminster. 


Nov.  23. 
Westminster. 


Nov.  24. 
Westminster. 


Nov.  24. 
Westminster. 

Nov.  7. 
Westminster. 


Nov.  22. 
Westminster. 


Nov.  24. 
Westminster. 


Nov.  26. 
Westminster. 


Nov.  28. 
Westminster. 

Nov.  6. 
Westminster. 

Nov.  4. 
Westminster. 


Nov.  26. 
Westminster. 


1467. 

Jan.  26. 
Westminster. 


Membrane  21 — conU 

Walter  Fyvyan  of  the  parish  of  Lullyngton,  co.  Somerset,  *  cloth- 
maker/  for  not  appearing  before  Bicbard  Neuton  and  his  fellows, 
jastices  of  the  Bench  of  the  late  king,  to  answer  Thomas  Canjnges, 
citizen  and  grocer  of  London,  touching  a  debt  of  8/.  London. 

Bichard  Wryght  late  of  Fulborn,  co.  Cambridge,  *  gentilman,'  for  not 
appearing  before  the  justices  of  the  Bench  to  answer  Gkofirey 
Feldyng  and  Edmund  Bedknape,  citizens  and  mercers  of  London, 
touching  two  debts  of  21/.  13«.  4^.  Middlesex. 

John  Abyngdon  of  Oxenden,  co.  Gloucester,  '  hnsbondman,'  for  not 
appearing  before  John  Prysot  and  his  fellows,  justices  of  the  Bench 
of  the  late  king,  to  answer  John  Fastolf,  knight,  touching  a  debt  of 
40«.  Middlesex. 

Thomas  Waryn  of  Orewelie,  co.  Cambridge,  *yoman,'  for  not  appear- 
ing to  answer  William  Frauiiceys  touching  a  debt  of  9/.        Norfolk. 

Henry  Chicheley  late  of  Wympole,  co.  Cambridge,  esquire,  for  not 
appearing  before  the  justices  of  the  Bench  to  answer  William 
Clement,  citizen  and  draper  of  London,  touching  a  debt  of  17/. 

London. 

Thomas  Case  of  Folkston,  co.  Kent,  *  husbondman,'  alias  Thomas 
Caas  late  of  Fulston,  co.  Kent,  <  yoman,'  for  not  appearing  before 
John  Prysot  and  his  fellows,  justices  of  the  Bench  of  the  late 
king,  to  answer  John  Gybbes  touching  a  trespa&f,  and  before  the 
justices  of  the  Bench  of  the  present  king  to  answer  John  Martyn, 
citizen  and  tailor  of  London,  touching  a  (lebt  of  40/.  Kent. 

John  Esyngwold  late  of  the  parish  of  St.  Sepulchre  without  Neugate 
in  the  suburbs  of  London,  *  gentilman,'  a/tof  late  of  Newerk,  co. 
Nottingham,  for  not  appearing  before  the  justices  of  the  Bench 
to  answer  William  Holt,  citizen  and  mercer  of  London,  John  Blake- 
bourne,  citizen  and  '  talughcbaundeler '  of  London,  and  Thomas 
Bryan  of  London,  '  gentilman,'  touching  debts  of  100/.,  ;^3/.  and  4/. 
respectively.  London. 

Bobert  Taverner  of  Dripole,  co«  York,  '  maryner,'  for  not  appearing  to 
answer  John  Wencelagh  of  Brandesburton  touching  a  debt  of 
10/.  13*.  4e/.  York. 

John  Tyse  late  of  York,  'bocher,'  for  not  appearing  to  answer 
William  Shirwod  of  York,  <  gentilman,'  touching  a  debt  of  10/. 

Middlesex. 

Bichard  Dryland  late  of  London,  esquire,  for  not  appearing  before 
the  late  king  to  answer  William  Croude  touching  a  trespass. 

London* 

Bobert  Strete  late  of  Dunster,  co.  Somerset,  clerk,  for  not  appearing 
before  the  justices  of  the  Bench  to  answer  Thomas  Gay  the  elder, 
citizen  and  tailor  of  London,  touching  a  debt  of  8/.  London. 

John  Harry  of  Dodebrokeburgh,  co.  Devon,  ^  smytli,'  for  not  appear- 
ing before  John  Prysot  and  his  fellows,  justices  of  the  Bench  of 
the  late  king,  to  answer  William  Kent  touching  a  debt  of  5  marks. 

Devon. 

John  Tysard  late  of  Walden,  co.  Essex,  ^gentilman,'  for  not 
appearing  to  answer  a  plea  that  he  render  40/.  to  Thomas  Holme 
and  Cristiana  his  wife  late  the  wife  of  John  Garlond  late  of  Waldeo, 
'  marchaunt,'  and  executrix  of  his  will.  Essex. 

John  Wattys  late  of  Foxcote,  co.  Buckingham,  clerk,  for  not  appearing 
to  answer  William  Berant  touching  a  debt  of  28  marks.  Devon. 


510 


CALENDAR  OF  PATENT  ROLLS. 


1467. 

Jan.  26. 
Westminster. 

Jan.  24. 

Westminster. 


Jan.  25. 
Westminster. 


Jan.  29. 
Westminster. 


Jan.  27. 
Westminster. 


Feb.  3. 
Westminster. 


Jan.  24. 

Westminster. 

Feb.  6. 
Westminster. 


Feb.  5. 
Westminster. 


Jan.  26. 
Westminster. 


Feb.  6. 
Westminster 


Membrane  21— con/. 

Richard  Burgh  of  Great  Chesterfordy  co.  Essex,  ^sinyih/  for  not 
appearing  to  answer  Richard  Walter,  citizen  and  ^  iremonger  *  of 
London  touching  a  debt  of  52«.  8^.  Cambridge. 

Roger  Yonge  late  of  Burgh,  co.  York,  ^  yoman,*  for  not  appearing 
before  the  justices  of  the  Bench  to  answer  John  None  and  Nicholas 
More,  burgesses  of  Great  Yermothe,  co.  Norfolk,  touching  a  debt  of 
20  marks.  Norfolk. 

Edward  Hopton  late  of  Rokhill,  co.  Salop, '  gentilman,'  for  not  appear- 
ing before  John  Prysot  and  his  fellows,  justices;  of  the  Bench  of 
the  late  king^  to  answer  William  Gladman,  citizen  and  mercer  of 
London,  and  Alice  his  wife, '  silkwoman,'  touching  a  debt  of  20/. 

Middlesex. 

John  Wolfe  of  Kjngeston,  co.  Surrey,  the  younger,  *  bocher,*  for  not 
appearing  to  answer  Thomas  Byles  and  William  Tanner,  executors 
of  the  will  of  John  Hastynges,  clerk^  touching  a  debt  of  5  marks 
6s.  Sd.  London. 

Richard  Fury  of  Trescote,  co.  Stafford, '  yoman,'  for  not  appearing 
before  the  justices  of  the  Bench  to  answer  William  Leycroft  touching 
a  debt  of  40*.  Warwick. 

Membrane  20. 

Edmund  Somer  of  Hevyngham,  co.  Norfolk,  *  husbondman,'  for  not 
appearing  before  John  Prysot  and  his  follows,  justices  of  the 
Bench  of  the  late  king,  to  answer  John  Fastolf,  knight,  touching  a 
trespass  committed  by  himself  and  Robert  Bidwell  of  Folthorpe,  co. 
Norfolk,  '  husbondman,'  and  John  Skut  of  Horsford,  co.  Norfolk, 
^  husbondman.'  Norfolk. 

Richard  Perkyn  of  Hope,  co.  Worcester,  *  husbondman,'  for  not  ap- 
pearing before  the  justices  of  the  Bench  to  answer  Ancelm  Codryngton 
touching  a  trespass.  Worcester. 

William  Ray  son  late  vicar  of  the  parish  church  of  Eynesham,  co. 
Oxford,  alias  William  Reson  late  of  Tettebury,  co.  Gloucester, 
clerk,  for  not  appearing  before  John  Prysot  and  his  fellows,  justices 
of  the  Bench  of  the  late  king,  to  answer  William  Lambeton  touching 
a  trespass,  Simon  Doyly  touching  a  trespass  and  Thomas  Gkiy  the 
elder,  citizen  and  tailor  of  London,  touching  a  debt  of  40«.,  and 
before  the  justices  of  the  Bench  of  the  present  king  to  answer 
John  Dyer  of  Malmesbury,  co.  Wilts, '  yoman,'  touching  a  debt  of 
10/.  Northampton.    Middlesex.    London. 

John  Restell  late  of  Meryden,  co.  Warwick, '  osteler,'  for  not  appear- 
ing before  the  justices  of  the  Bench  when  sued  with  Robert  Warde 
late  of  Alspath,  co.  Warwick,  chaplain,  to  answer  John  Coryngham, 
chaplain,  touching  a  trespass.  Middlesex. 

William  Dalton  of  Hamersmyth,  co.  Middlesex,  *  husbondman,'  alias 
late  of  Fulham,  co.  Middlesex,  'husbondman,'  for  not  appearing 
before  John  Prysot  and  his  fellows,  justices  of  the  Bencii  of  the 
late  king,  to  answer  a  plea  that  he  render  41.  to  John  Norman, 
alderman  of  London,  and  Agnes  his  wife,  executors  of  the  will  of 
William  Paxman  late  citizen  and  'iremonger'  of  London,  and 
before  the  justices  of  the  Bench  of  the  present  king  to  answer 
William  Poteman,  the  warden,  and  the  fellows  of  the  college  of  All 
Souls,  Oxford,  touching  a  debt  of  20/.  Middlesex. 

Richard  Sprynget  late  of  Hawekeherst,  co.  Kent,  'carpenter,'  for  not 
appearing  before  the  justices  of  the  Bench  to  answer  a  plea  that  he 


6  EDWARD  IV.— Part  I. 


611 


1467. 


Feb.  9. 
Westminster. 

Feb.  7. 
Westminster. 


Jan.  23. 
Westminster. 


Feb.  9. 
Westminster. 


Feb.  7. 
Westminster. 


Feb.  9. 
Westminster. 


Feb.  11. 
Westminster. 


Feb.  11. 
Westminster. 

Jan.  25. 

Westminster. 


Membrane  20 — cont. 

render  20/.  to  Cicely  late  the  wife  of  Thomas  ETryell,  kniglit,  and 
Nicholas  Sibilly  executors  of  the  will  of  the  said  Thomas.  Kent. 

John  Hanell  late  of  CheryshetantOD,  co.  Devon,  'husbondman/  for  not 
appearing  before  Robert  Danby  and  his  fellows,  justices  of  the 
Bench,  to  answer  John  Wynell  touching  a  debt  of  40^.  Devon. 

William  Veruey  late  of  Great  Wolford,  co.  Warwick,  esquire,  son  and 
heir  of  Robert  Verney  late  of  Great  Wolfoixi,  for  not  appearing 
before  the  justices  of  the  Bench  to  answer  Richard  Dalby  of  Brok- 
hampton,  co.  Warwick,  ^  gentilman,'  touching  a  debt  of  39/. 

Middlesex. 

Guv  Bayle  or  Bailly  of  North  Mymmys,  co.  Hertford,  ^  husbondman, 
for  not  appearing  before  John  Frysot  and  his  fellows,  justices  of  the 
Bench  of  the  late  king,  and  the  justices  of  tlie  Bench  of  the  present 
king  to    answer  1'homas    Gay  the    elder,  citizen  and   tailor  of 
London,  touching  a  debt  of  40s.  London. 

Thomas  Piers  late  of  Hekfeld,  co.  Southampton,  *  husbondman,'  for 
not  appearing  before  the  justices  of  the  Bench  to  answer  Thomas 
Chaundeler,  warden  of  the  college  of  St.  Mary  of  Wynton  in 
Oxford,  touching  a  debt  of  19/.  2jr.  Oxford. 

William  Waleys  of  Storteford,  co.  Hertford,  '  husbondman,'  for  not 
appearing  to  answer  a  plea  that  he  render  40s,  to  William  Thurgor, 
administrator  of  the  goods  of  John  Cowpere,  chaplain,  celebrant  of 
divine  service  in  the  charnel-house  within  the  cemetery  of  the 
cathedral  church  of  St.  Paul,  London,  who  died  intestate.     London. 

Thomas  Harryos  late  of  London,  ^  grocer,'  for  not  appearing  to  answer 
Thomas  Wattys,  citizen  and  draper  of  London,  touching  a  debt  of 
200/.  London. 

Oliver  Stokdale  late  of  Thorpe  Underlefe,  co.  T»rk, '  gentilman,'  for 
not  appearing  to  answer  a  plea  that  he  render  a  cofler  with  charters, 
writings  and  other  muniments  to  William  Blase.  London. 

Thomas  Norys  late  of  Woxbrigge,  co.  Middlesex,  ^bocher,'  for  not 
appearing  to  answer  Roger  Barlowe,  citizen  and  tailor  of  London, 
and  John  Barlowe,  *  gentilman,'  touching  a  debt  of  6  marks  lOd. 

Middlesex. 

Thomas  Avote  of  Borowby  in  Whitbystrand,  co.  York,  *  yoman,'  for 
not  appearing  before  the  king  to  answer  Richard  Wryght  touching 
a  trespass.  York. 

John  Hnwet  of  Whitcchurch,  co.  Salop,  'yoman,' for  not  appearing 
before  Nicholas  (John)  Prysot  and  his  fellows,  justices  of  the  Bench 
of  the  late  king,  to  answer  Nicholas  Gryseley  touching  a  debt  of  20 
marks.  London. 


1466. 

Nov.  28. 
^Westminster. 


1467. 

Jan.  27. 

Westminster. 


Mbmbranb  19. 

Robert  Attekeyn  of  Haddenharo,  co.  Cambridge,  *  drover,'  for  not 
appearing  before  Uie  justices  of  the  Bench  to  answer  Bugh 
Lvnallys  alias  Lynalsse  of  Slaweston,  *  gentilman,'  touching  a  debt 
of  12/.  I^icester. 

WiUiam  Thomson  of  Edlyngton,  co.  York,  ^  husbandman,'  for  no. 
appearing  before  John  Prysot  and  his  fellows,  jostioes  of  the  Bench 
of  the  late  king,  when  sned  with  John  Eirkby  of  Edlyngton,  clerk, 
and  William  Dryffeld  of  Edlyngton,  'husbandman,'  to  answer 
Richard  Lescrop,  clerk,  and  James  Strangways  knight  touching  a 
trespass.  York. 


512  CALENDAR  OP  PATENT  ROLLS. 


][4gg^  Membrane  18. 

lifarch  12.  Licence,  for  6  marks  paid  in  the  hanaper,  for  Elizabeth  Venonr,  late  the 
Westminster,  wife  of  V^iiiiara  Venour  and  daughter  and  heir  of  Roger  Sapurton,  to  grant 
a  messuage  and  a  garden  within  the  close  of  the  Flete  and  the  office  of  the 
custody  and  the  cu9to<ly  of  all  the  prisons  of  the  king's  prison  there, 
6/.  14«.  bd.  yearlj  rent  from  divers  lands  within  the  city  and  suburbs  of 
London,  a  messuage  within  the  close  of  the  king's  palace  of  Wentminster 
and  the  office  of  the  custody  and  the  custody  of  the  same  palace,  held  in 
chief,  with  the  fees  and  profits  pertaining  to  the  said  offices  and  custodies, 
to  John  Markham,  knight,  chief  justice  of  the  King's  Bench,  Robert 
Danby,  knight,  chief  justice  of  the  Common  Bench,  Richnrd  Illyngworth, 
knight,  chief  baron  of  the  Exchequer,  William  Laken,  one  of  the  justices 
of  the  King's  Bench,  Peter  Ardem,  knight,  one  of  the  justices  of  the 
Common  Bench,  Richard  Choke,  knight,  another  justice  of  the  same 
Bench,  John  Dynhom,  esquire,  and  Thomas  Littelton,  Thomas  Tonge, 
John  Catesby,  Quy  Fairefax  and  Richard  Pigot,  Serjeants  at  law,  Thomas 
Ripplyngham  and  John  Leynton,  and  for  these  to  demise  the  same  to  her 
for  the  term  of  60  years  or  until  her  death  if  she  die  within  that  term. 
And  if  she  shall  have  issue  of  her  bo«ly,  after  her  decease  when  required  by 
the  heirs  of  her  body  they  shall  demise  the  same  to  whom  they  will  for 
three  weeks,  with  successive  remainders  to  the  heirs  of  her  body,  the  heirs 
of  the  body  of  Robert  Babyngton,  the  persons  nominated  by  herself  or  her 
heirs,  and  the  right  heirs  of  the  said  Roger.  And  if  she  shall  die  without 
issue,  after  her  decease  when  required  by  William  Babyngton  or  the  heirs 
of  his  body,  they  shall  demise  the  same  to  whom  they  will  for  three  weeks, 
with  successive  remainders  to  the  heirs  of  the  body  of  the  said  Robert 
Babyngton,  the  persons  nominated  by  herself  or  her  heirs,  and  the  right 
heirs  of  the  said  Roger.  By  p.s. 

March  17.       General  pardon  to  Robert  Stillyngton,  bishop  of  Bath  and  Wells,  dean  of 

Westminster,  the  king's  free  chapel  of  St.  Martin  le  Qrand,  Loudon,  and  keeper  of  the 

privy  seal,  of  all  provisions  of  apostolic  letters  or  bulls  and  all  other  offences 

committed  by  him  before  13  January.  By  p.s. 

June  17.  Pardon  to  William  Longe  of  Bristol  of  all  actions  and  demands  against 
Westminster,  him  by  reason  of  his  condemnation  in  26/.  8f .  at  the  suit  of  William  Talbot 
before  John  Loke  and  George  Erland,  late  sheriffs  of  the  city  of  London, 
in  the  counting-house  of  the  said  George  within  the  said  city  by  virtue  of 
a  quarrel  touching  a  trespass;  the  said  William  Talbot  having  been 
outlawed  before  the  justices  of  the  Bench  at  Westminster  at  the  suit 
of  William  Neel  and  Agnes  his  wife  in  the  county  of  Leicester.        By  p.s. 

June  27.        Exemplificiition,  at  the  instance  of  the  men  and  inhabitants  of  the  town 

Westminster,   of  Mothetuna  in  the  hundred  of  Walesham,  co.  Norfolk,  of  a  certificate 

in   Chancery.   [Domesdai/  Booky  fol.   113&.     H.  de  Walesham — comiti, 

foL  12«.     H.  Walessam — iiii.  soV./o/.  1296.     In  Modetuua— obol'.  and  lu 

Modetuna — comes.] 

Jur.e  10.         Grant  for  life  to  the  king's  kinsmnn  William,  earl  of  Arundel,  of  all  the 

Westminster,  rabbits  within  the  forest  and  park  of  Claryngdon  alias  Paunset,  co.  Wilts, 

rendering  to  the  king  lOOf.  yearly,  with  licence  for  him  and  his  servants 

and  assigns  to  enter  the  forest  and  park  and  set  engines  to  take  the  rabbits. 

By  p.s. 

Mbmbranb  17. 

March  15.        Whereas  the  king  was  entitled  to  50  marks  from  the  prior  and  convent 

Westminster,    of  Certe§ey  for  the  custody  of  the  temporalities  of  the  abbey  when  it  should 

become   void  after  19   January,  37  Heniy  VI.  by  the  death  of  Thomas 

Angevyn,  abbot,  or  otherwise,  and  the  abbey  became  void  by  the  surrender 

of  the  said  Thomas  Angevyn,  and  Wilh'am  Wroghton  was  elected  abbot, 


6  EDWARD  IV.— Part  T.  513 


1466.  Membrane  17 — cant. 

and  bj  letters  patent  dated  25  February,  1  Edward  IV.  the  king  granted 
the  said  50  marks  to  his  sister  Anne,  duchess  of  Exeter,  and  the  said 
William  received  the  said  letters  and  letters  of  acquittance  of  the  said 
duchess  and  afterwards  on  6  February,  4  Edward  IV.  he  was  deprived  of 
the  office  and  dignity  of  abbot,  so  that  the  abbey  again  became  void,  and 
he  carried  off  the  said  letters  to  places  unknown,  so  that  John,  now  abbot, 
and  the  convent  cannot  exonerate  themselves  of  the  said  50  maris ;  the 
king  hereby  pardons  to  them  the  said  50  marks  and  also  50  marks  due 
from  them  for  the  second  voidance.  By  K. 

May  1 5.  Gleneral  pardon  to  John  Awnewyke  or  Hauuewyke  late  of  Sand wyche, 

Westmintter.  co.  Kent,  «yoman.*  By  K. 

June  17.  Pardon  to  Thomas  Peftinarth  of  his  outlawry  in  the  county  of  Cornwall 

Westminster,  for  not  appearing  before  John  Pry  sot  and  his  fellows,  justices  of  the  Bench 
of  the  late  king,  to  satisfy  the  late  king  of  his  ransom  for  a  disseisin  of 
Roger  Moyle  and  Joan  his  wife  of  tenements  in  Trethenek,  Trewolsta, 
Lamfrone,  Brighter,  Penquyt  and  Morva,  of  which  he  was  convicted  by 
default,  he  having  surrendered  to  the  Fieto  prison,  as  Robert  Dan  by,  knight, 
chief  justice  of  the  Bench,  has  certified. 

June  23.  Grant  to  Ralph  Wolseley,  esquire,  victualler  of  the  town  of  Calais,  in 

Westminster,  repayment  of  the  sum  of  700/.  in  which  the  king  is  indebted  to  him  by  7 
tallies  at  the  receipt  of  the  Exchequer  delivered  to  him  for  Walter  Blount, 
knight,  lord  Mouiitjoy,  late  treasurer  of  England,  for  moneys  lent  for  the 
victualling  of  the  town  and  the  marches  there,  that  he  or  his  executors, 
factors  or  attorneys  may  ship  sacks  and  bales  of  wool,  woollen  cloths,  hides, 
tin  and  lead  in  any  ports  of  England  one  or  more  times  before  1  April  next 
and  afterwards  at  his  will  and  take  them  to  foreign  parts  by  the  straits  of 
Marrok  and  not  elsewhere,  quit  of  customs  and  subsidies  at  the  rate  of  4 
marks  on  each  sack  of  wool  until  he  shall  thus  be  fully  satisfied  of  the  said 
700/.  Byp.s. 

Vacated  by  surrender  and  cancelled  because  the  king  made  a  like  grant 
by  letters  patent  to  John  Middelton  on  IQ  May,  0  Edward  IV, 

Grant  as  above  that  he  may  ship  as  above  one  or  more  times  from  1  April 
next  until  1  April,  1468,  and  afterwards  at  his  will.  By  p.s. 

Juno  30.  Licence  for  the  prior  and  monks  of  the  House  of  Jesus  of  Bethlehem  of 

Westminster.  Shene  to  make  a  subterranean  conduit  from  a  spring  called  '  Welwey ' 
alias  '  Pikwelleswell '  to  their  house  and  to  repair  the  pipes  of  the  conduit 
when  necessary.  Henry  Y.  by  a  charter  granted  to  them  a  like  licence  to 
make  a  conduit  from  a  spring  called  ^  Hillesdenwell '  in  Shene  to  their 
house,  but  the  supply  of  water  is  insufficient.  By  p.8. 

July  5.  Pnixlon  to  William  Shipman  of  Olton,  co.  Suffolk,  *•  husbondman/  of  his 

Wefrtmioster.  outlawry  in  the  county  of  Suffolk  for  not  appearing  before  the  king  to 
answer  for  certain  trespasses,  he  having  surrendered  to  the  Marshaliea 
prison,  as  John  Markham,  chief  justice  of  the  King's  Benchj^  has  certified. 

Mbmbranb  16. 

March  9.  Appointment,  during  pleasure,  of  George  Radedyff  as  controller  of  the 
WestmiDster.  great  and  petty  custom,  the  subsidy  of  wools,  hides  and  wool-fells,  and  the 
subsidy  of  the  3f.  in  thetnn  and  the  12c?.  in  the  pound  in  the  port  of  Ipswich 
and  ports  and  places  adjacent,  receiving  the  accustomed  fees,  provided  that 
he  execute  the  office  in  person,  with  the  custody  of  one  part  of  the  coket 
seal.  By  bill  of  the  treasurer. 

The  like  of  the  following  in  the  ports  named   and  ports  and  places 
adjacent : — 
March  13.  Thomas  Radeclyff  in  the  port  of  Kyngeston  on  Hull. 

Westminster.  By  bill  of  the  treasurer. 

ir     86914.  K  K 


514 


CALENDAR  OF  PATENT  ROLLS. 


1466. 

March  18. 
Westminffter. 


March  15. 
Westminster. 

March  7. 
Westminster. 

1467. 

Feb.  18. 
Westminster. 

1466. 

Oct.  22. 

Westminster. 
March  11. 
Westminster. 


Membrane  16 — cont. 
John  Staunford  in  the  port  of  Pole. 

Christopher  Furneys  iu  the  port  of  Chichester. 
Thomas  Wylde  iu  the  port  of  Boston. 


By  bill  of  the  treasurer. 
By  bill  of  the  treasurer. 


March  15. 
Westminster. 

May  2. 

Westminster. 

April  28. 
WeRtminster. 

April  30. 
Westminster. 

1467. 

Jan.  12. 

Westminster. 

1466. 

Nov.  24. 
Westminster. 

March  10. 
Westminster. 


Geoffrey  Kedwelly  in  the  port  of  Southampton. 

By  bill  of  the  treasurer. 

Richard  Grayle  in  the  port  of  Chichester.  By  bill  of  the  treasurer. 


Richard  Peytevyn  in  the  port  of  Bnggewater.  By  bill  of  the  treasurer. 

Appointment,  during  pleasure,  of  John  Puny  as  the  king's  ganger  in 
the  port  of  Bristol  and  ports  and  places  adjacent,  receiving  the  accustomed 
fees.  By  bill  of  the  treasurer. 

The  like  of  the  following  in  the  ports  named  and  ports  and  places 
adjacent : — 

William  Sayer  in  the  port  of  Southampton.       By  bill  of  the  treasurer. 


Robert  Chamberleyn  in  the  port  of  Pole. 


By  bill  of  the  treasurer. 


March  13. 
Westminster. 

March  12. 
Westminster. 

March  9. 
Westminster. 

April  20. 
Westminster. 

March  21. 

Westminster. 

March  18. 
Westminster. 

March  9. 
Westminster. 


John  Malteman  in  the  port  of  Kyngeston  on  Hull. 

By  bill  of  the  treasurer. 

Thomas  Draper  in  the  port  of  Boston.  By  bill  of  the  treasurer. 


Thomas  Longer  in  the  port  of  Chichester.  By  bill  of  the  treasurer. 


Richard  Prykproude  in  the  poit  of  Ipswich.      By  bill  of  the  treasurer. 

Grant,  during  pleasure,  to  John  Aldey  of  the  office  of  tronage  and  pesage 
in  the  port  of  Sandwych  and  ports  and  places  adjacent,  receiving  the  accus- 
tomed fees.  By  bill  of  the  treasurer. 

The  like  to  the  following  in  the  ports  named  and  ports  and  places 
adjacent : — 

Robert  Newland  in  the  port  of  Ipswich.  By  bill  of  the  treasurer. 

John  Lamplogh  in  the  port  of  Newcastle  on  Tyne. 

By  bill  of  the  treasurer. 

Thomas  Blakeham  in  the  port  of  London.  By  bill  of  the  treasurer. 

« 

Richard  Gylberd  in  the  port  of  Southampton.  By  bill  of  the  treasurer. 

Nicholas  Delehay  in  the  port  of  Boston.  By  bill  of  the  treasurer. 

Robert  Allerton  in  the  port  of  Kyngeston  on  Hull. 

By  bill  of  the  treasurer. 

Appointment,  during  pleasure,  of  William  Herbert,  esquire,  as  controller 
of  the  sciutiny  in  the  port  of  Bristol  and  ports  and  places  adjacent,  receiving 
the  accustomed  fees.  By  bill  of  the  treasurer. 


6  EDWARD  IV.— Part  I.  515 


1466.  Membrane  16 — cont 

The  like  of  the  following  : — 
March  18.  William  Bethom  in  the  port  of  Kyngeston  on  Hull  and  ports  and  places 

Westminster.  adjacent.  By  hill  of  the  treasurer. 

March  18.        Appointment,  daring  pleasure,  of  John  Swanecote  as  supervisor  of  the 

Westminster,  scrutiny  in  the  port  oF  Bristol  and  ports  and  places  adjacent,  receiving  the 

accustomed  fees.  By  hill  of  the  treasurer. 

1467. 

The  like  of  the  following  :— 

Feh.  17.  Nicholas  Wareyn  in  the  same.  By  hill  of  the  treasurer. 

Westminster. 

March  9.        Appointment,  during  pleasure,  of  Robert  Iseham  as  controller  of  the  great 

Westminster,  custom  and  the  subsidy  of  wools,  hides,  and  wool-fells  in  the  port  of  London 

and  ports  and  places  adjacent,  receiving  the  accustomed  fees,  provided  that 

he  execute  the  office  in  person,  with  the  custody  of  one  part  of  the  coket 

seal.  By  bill  of  the  treasurer. 

March  10.        The  like  of  John  Forster  as  controller  of  the  subsidy  of  the  Ss.  in  the 
Westminster,  tun  and  the  12c?.  in  the  pound  in  the  same.  By  bill  of  the  treasurer. 

March  18.        The  like  of  John  Feelde  as  controller  of  the  petty  custom  in  the  same. 
Westminster.  By  bill  of  the  treasurer. 

Mbmbranb  15. 

March  17.        General  pardon  to  Master  Peter  Taster,  dean  of  St.  Severin  and  provost  of 
Westminster,    the  coll^iate  church  of  St.  John,  Beverley.  By  p.8. 

March  15.        The  like  to  Bichard  Bennayth  of  Pembroke, '  gentilman,'  alicu  Bichard 
Westminster.  Hugh  of  Monketon,  co.  Pembroke,  alias  Richard  Benet,  of  all  offences  com- 
mitted by  him  before  8  October,  1  Edward  IV.  By  p.s. 

March  5.  Confirmation  for  one  yeai*  from  1  March  last  of  a  safe-conduct  granted 

Westminster,  by  the  king's  kinsman  the  earl  of  Desmond,  deputy Jieutenant  of  Ireland, 

bv  virtue  of.  his  office  to  Pellegrinus  de  Orieta  and  John  Yevan,  merchants 

of  Bordeaux,  for  themselves  and  their  goods,  factors,  attorneys  and  servants, 

as  appears  by  letters  under  the  seal  of  die  mayor  of  Waterford. 

By  p.s.  and  for  \  mark  paid  in  the  h&naper. 

The  like  for  Goebartus  de  Chika  and  Pellegrinus  de  Orieta,  merchants  of 
Bordeaux.  By  p.s.  and  for  \  mark  paid  in  the  hanaper. 

April  27.        Appointment,  during  pleasure,  of  Thomas  Littelton  as  one  of  the  justices 
Westminster,  of  the  Bench,  receiving  the  accustomed  fee.  By  K.  by  word  of  mouth. 

April  26.         Grant  for  life  to  the  king's  servitor  William  Hall  of  the  office  of  one  of 

Westminster,   the  yeomen  tailors  of  the  great  wardrobe,  receiving  6d,  daily  with  a  livery 

for  winter  ai\d  summer  yearly  at  Christmas  and  Whitsuntide  at  the  hands 

of  the  keeper  of  the  great  wardrobe,  with  all  other  profits.  By  p.s. 

April  26.        Grant  for  life  to  the  king's  servant  Thomas  Sandeland  of  the  town  of 

Westminster.  Shrewsbury  of  an  annuity  of  10  marks  from  Michaelmas  last  from  the  farm 

of  the  manor  of  Wrokwardyn,  co.  Salop,  in  lieu  of  a  like  grant  to  him 

from  the  fee  farm  of  the  town  of  Shrewsbury  by  letters  patent  dated  22 

Jane,  5  Edward  lY.  surrendered.  By  p.s. 

March  6.  Gbtmt  for  life  to  the  king's  servant  William  Pault  of  the  office  of  serjeant 
Westminster,  of  the  tailors  in  the  great  wardrobe,  receiving  \2d,  daily  from  the  issues  of 
the  counties  of  Somerset  and  Dorset,  in  lieu  of  another  grant  to  him  of  the 
said  office  by  letters  patent  surrendered,  and  grant  to  him  also  of  24/.  as 
regard  from  the  said  issues  and  100«.  yearly  from  the  said  issues  for  a 
house  hired  by  him  within  the  city  of  London,  with  liveries  for  vrinter  and 
summer  at  Christmas  aad  Whitsuntide  at  the  hands  of  the  keeper  of  the 
great  wardrobe  and  all  other  profits.  By  p.s. 

KK  2 


516  CALENDAB  OP  PATENT  ROLLS. 


1466.  Membrane  15 — cont. 

April  25.        General  pardon    to  Richard  Belte  late  of  the  town  of  Westminster,  co. 
Westminster.    Middlesex,  *  yoman/  alias  of  London,  *  gentilman.'  By  p.8. 

April  26.         Grant  for  life  to  Edward  Berkeley,  esquire,  of  the  office  of  bailiff  of 

Westminster.  Barley  in  the  New  Forest,  co.  Southampton,  with  fees  as  in  the  last  year 

of  Edward  III.  and  the  first  of  Richard  II.  in  lieu  of  a  like  grant  of  the 

same  to  Thomas  Tauke  by  letters  patent  dated  7  July»  1  Edward  IV. 

surrendered.  By  p.8. 

April  27.  Grant  to  Thomas  Litteltou,  one  of  the  justices  of  the  Bench,  for  the 
Westminster,  better  maintenance  of  his  estate,  of  1 10  marks  yearly  at  the  hands  of  the 
clerk  or  keeper  of  the  hanaper  or  the  customers  in  the  ports  of  London, 
Bristol  and  Kyngeston  on  Hull,  according  to  the  form  of  an  act  in  Parlia- 
ment at  Westminster,  18  Henry  VI.  and  106f.  ll^d.  and  the  sixth  part  of 
JJ.  yearly  at  Christmas  for  a  robe  with  fur  and  66*.  6rf.  yearly  at  Whitsun- 
tide for  a  robe  with  lining.     \_F(BderaJ]  By  K. 


Membrane  14. 

March  4.        Appointment,  during  pleasure,  of  Richard  Wydivyll,  knight,  lord  RyTers, 

Westminster,   as  treasurer  of  the  Exchequer,  with  all  fees  and  emoluments  Ijelonging  to 

the  office.  By  K. 

Mandate  in   pursuance  to  Ralph   Blount  of  Mountioye,   knight,  late 
treasurer. 

March  4.         Grant  for  life  to  Robert  Huet  of  Newcastle  on  Tyne  and  Mary  his 

Westminster,  daughter  of  100*.  yearl}'^  from  all  minute  farms  and  serjeanties  required  in 

the  name  of  the  sheriff  of  the  said  town,  and  other  farms  and  profits  from 

and  in  the  county  of  the  said  town.  By  K. 

March  6.  General  pardon  to  Joan  Marshall  late  of  Kirklyngton,  co.  Nottingham, 

Westminster.  <  gentilwoman,'  of  all  offences  committed  by  her  before  20  February  last. 

By  p.8. 

March  4.         Appointment,  during  pleasure,  of  John  Flemyng,  king's  clerk  and  chaplaio, 
Westminster,  doctor  of  arts  and  bachelor  of  theology,  as  the  king's  proctor  at  the  court 
of  Rome,  with  wages  of  120/.  yearly  at  the  receipt  of  the  Exchequer. 

.  By  p.s, 

March  5.  •  Licence,  at  the  supplication  of  the  king's  consort  Elizabeth,  queen  of 
Westminster.  England,  for  William  Rous,  chaplain.  Master  John  Reseby  and  Master 
Thomas  Assheby,  priests,  to  found  a  fraternity  of  sixty  priests  of  London 
to  pray  for  the  good  estate  of  the  king  and  his  consort  and  his  kinsman 
George  Nevile,  archbishop  of  York  and  chancellor,  and  for  their  souls  after 
death,  to  be  called  the  fraternity  of  the  Holy  Trinity  and  the  Sixty  Priests 
of  London,  and  for  them  to  elect  a  registrar  from  among  themselves. 
[Fcedera.']  By  K. 

March  7.  Licence  for  Master  Thomas  Kent,  doctor  of  either  law,  clerk  of  the 
Westminster,  council,  and  Robert  Kent,  bachelor  in  laws,  proctor  general  of  the  court  of 
Canterbury,  or  their  heirs,  executors,  or  assigns  to  found  a  perpetual 
chantry  of  one  chaplain  to  celebrate  divine  service  daily  at  the  altar  of  St. 
Mary  in  the  parish  church  of  Hedeerone,  co.  Kent,  for  the  good  estate  of 
the  king  and  the  said  Thomas  and  Robert  and  for  their  souls  after  death 
and  the  souls  of  Isabel,  Joan,  Julian  and  Benet  their  wives  and  Stephen 
and  Julian  their  parents,  the  king's  father  Richard,  late  duke  of  York,  the 
king's  brother  Edmund,  earl  of  Rutland,  Richard,  earl  of  Salisbury,  Robert 
Home,  esquire,  and  all  lords,  knights,  esquires  and  others  killed  in  the 
battles  or  conflicts  of  Northampton,  Morfemercrosse,  Wakefeld,  Saint 
Albons  and  Shirbourne,  and  to  take  the  charge  of  distributing  the  sum  of 
10/.  yearly  in  pious   uses,  viz.  among  the  poor  parishioners  of  the  said 


6  EDWARD  IV.— Pabt  L  51 


1466^  Membrane  14 — cont. 

church  and  other  neighbouring  places  and  the  repair  of  the  church  and 
other  works  of  pietj,  to  be  called  '  Kentys  Chaunterye ' ;  and  to  grant  in 
mortmain  to  the  said  chaplain  lands,  possessions,  rents  and  services  to  the 
value  of  20/.  yearly.  By  p.s.  and  for  20/.  paid  id  the  hanaper. 

March  10.        General  pardon  to  William  Douglas  of  Dunetaburgh,  co.  Northumberland, 
Wertininrter.  <gentilman.'  By  p.s. 

Mbmbranb  13. 

March  17.  Pardon  to  Bartholomew  Mintmany,  merchant  of  Arragon,  household 
Westminster,  servant  of  the  king's  kinsman  Peter,  king  of  Arragon,  of  the  trespass 
which  he  unknowingly  committed  in  shipping  divers  goods  from  Holland  to 
England  in  a  certain  galley,  viz.  6  pieces  of  *•  holand/  30  pieces  of  great 
web  of  Brabant,  two  pieces  of  wax,  18  ccdiptra  or  ^  bonettis,'  three  shirts, 
6  ells  of  black  woollen  cloth,  two  cushions  (bancalia)  of  '  aras,'  24  skins  of 
parchment  and  II  bales  of  *  mader,'  which  were  prohibited  by  the  king  in 
council  from  being  brought  into  the  realm  ;  and  licence  for  him  to  sell  and 
dispose  of  the  aforesaid  goods.  By  p.s. 

March  22.        Licence  for  the  prior  and  convent  of  the  monastery  of  Bardeney,  of  the 

Westminster,  order  of  St.  Benedict,  in  the  diocese  of  Lincoln,  to  elect  an  abbot  in  the 

place  of  Gilbert  Multon,  late  abbot,  resigned.  By  p.s. 

March  15.        Grant  to  the  king's  kinsman  John  Nevile,  knight,  earl  of  Northumberland, 

Westminster,  of  the  next  presentation  to  the  parish  church  of  Fulbek,  co.  Lincoln,  which 

is  of  the  king's  patronage.  By  p.s. 

March  24.  Pardon  to  John  Wenlok,  knight,  lord  of  Wenlok,  treasurer  of  Ireland, 
Westminster,  chief  butler  of  England,  late  executor  of  the  will  of  John,  lord  of  Faunhope, 
of  all  offences  committed  by  him  before  12  February  last,  and  all  fines, 
amercements,  debts,  accounts  and  arrears  due  to  the  king  before  that  date 
by  reason  of  the  execution  of  the  wills  of  John,  lord  of  Faunhope,  and 
Thomas  Tudenham,  knight,  or  for  the  custody,  governance  or  issues  of  any 
castles,  manors,  lordships,  lands  and  tenements  of  John,  duke  of  Norfolk, 
during  his  minority  or  of  any  castles,  lordships,  manors,  lands  and  other 
possessions  of  which  Robert  Hungerford,  late  lord  of  Hungerford  and 
Molyns,  knight,  attainted  of  high  treason  by  authority  of  Parliament  at 
Westminster,  4  November,  1  Edward  IV.  was  seised  or  Eleanor  his  wife 
or  Edmund  Hampden,  knight,  attainted  as  above,  or  Anne  his  wife  or 
John  Fortescu,  knight,  attainted  as  above,  or  of  any  manors  and  lands  late 
of  the  said  Thomas  Tudenham,  knight,  or  by  reason  of  his  said  offices  of 
treasurer  of  Ireland  and  chief  butler  of  England.  By  p.s. 

March  24.       Grant  to  William  Broun,  clerk,  of  the  custody  of  the  house  or  chapel 
Westminster,   called  *  le  priory  hermitage '  by  Dorcestre,  co.  Dorset.  By  K. 

March  24.       Grant  for  life  to  the  king's  servants  Hugh  Brice  and  John  Sandes  of  the 
Westminster,  office  of  clerk  of  the  king's  mint,  money  and  exchange  within  the  Tower 
of  London,  with  fees  as  in  the  last  year  of  Edward  II  I.  and  the  first  of 
Richard  II.  to  be  paid  yearly  at  the  hands  of  the  warden  of  the  said  mint, 
in  lieu  of  like  grants  by  other  letters  patent,  surrendered.  By  p.s. 

Vatated  by  surrender  and  cancelled  because  the  king  granted  the  said 
office  to  them  by  other  letters  patent  cm  15  February y  11  Edward  IV. 

March  28.  Whereas  it  was  ordained  in  the  last  Parliament  at  Westminster  that  after 
Westminster,  the  Purification,  1464,  no  denizen  of  the  realm  or  stranger  merchant 
should  carry  or  cause  to  be  carried  any  merchandise  of  the  growth  or 
manufacture  of  Burgoyne,  Lotrik,  Braband,  Leneburgh,  Flaundres, 
Artoys,  Henawd,  Holand,  Zeland,  Namier,  the  marquisate  of  the  Holy 
Empire,  Frizeland,  Malynes,  the  lands  beyond  the  river  Mase,  or  any  other 
lands  or  lordships  which  the  duke  of  Burgundy  then  held,  into  England, 


618  CALENDAE  OF  PATENT  ROLLS. 


1466.  Membrane  13 — cont 

Wales  or  Ireland  or  sell  them  there,  under  penalty  of  foifeiture ;  and  on  7 
February  last  three  galleys  of  Florence  of  which  Augustine  Biliote  was  and 
is  captain  came  into  the  port  of  Sandwich,  co.  Kent,  laden  amon^  other 
things  with  389  bales  of  madder  of  the  growth  of  the  said  lands  of  the 
goods  of  one  Gerard  Cangiani,  and  on  9  February  one  William  Gyles  in 
the  king's  name  seized  the  said  madder  to  the  kingfs  use  in  the  presence  of 
Thomas  Kerver,  clerk  of  the  town,  and  one  of  the  Serjeants  of  the  mace 
of  the  town,  by  the  command  of  Bichard  Cheldesworth,  mayor  of  the  town ; 
nevertheless  the  king  grants  the  said  madder  to  the  said  Gerard,  with  licence 
to  sell  and  dispose  of  it  freely  to  his  own  profit.  By  pjs. 

Membrane  12. 

May  8.  Pardon  to  William  Iipe  of  Tamworth,  co.  Stafford,  *  baker,'  for  the  death 

Westminster,   of  Richard  Couper,  of  which  he  was  indicted  before  John  Osmonderiowe, 

one  of  the  coroners  of  the  county.  By  p.8. 

May  2.  Exemption  for  life  of  Henry  Greue  of  Drayton,  co.  Northampton,  esquire, 

Westminster,  from  being  put  on  assizes,  juries,  attaints,  recognisances  or  inquisitions  and 
from  being  made  trier  of  the  same,  mayor,  sheriff,  escheator,  coroner, 
justice,  collector,  assessor,  taxer,  surveyor,  constable,  controller  of  tenths, 
fifteenths,  or  other  subsidies,  arrayer  or  'trier  of  men  at  arms,  hobelers,  or 
archers  or  other  officer,  bailiff  or  minister  of  the  king  against  his  will ;  and 
grant  that  no  person  shall  take  any  goods  of  himself  or  his  farmers  or  any 
goods  in  his  custody  against  his  will.  By  p.8. 

March  22.  Pardon  to  Boger  Kynaston  of  Myddull,  co.  Salop,  esquire,  late  escheater 
Westminster,  in  the  county  of  Salop  and  the  marches  of  Wales  adjacent  and  late  sheriff 
of  the  county,  for  his  good  service  to  the  king  and  the  king's  father,  of  all 
offences  committed  by  him,  all  escapes  of  felons,  all  goods  and  chattels  of 
felons,  fugitives  and  outlaws,  and  all  fines,  amercements,  debts,  accounts 
and  arrears  due  from  him  to  the  king ;  and  pardon  to  Balph  Lee  or  Legh, 
esquire,  late  sheriff  of  the  county  for  the  year  beginning  at  Michaelmas,  4 
Edward  IV.  and  Roger  Eyton,  esquire,  late  sheriff*  of  the  county,  of  all 
debts  and  accounts  with  which  they  might  be  charged  for  the  said  Roger 
Kynaston.  By  p.s. 

May  13.  Exemplification,  at  the  request  of  William  Bowse,  chaplain,  a  native  of 
Westminster.  Scotland,  of  letters  patent  of  Henry  Percy,  knight,  late  lord  of  Ponynges, 
warden  of  the  east  march  of  England  towards  Scotland,  sealed  with  his 
.seal  of  arms,  dated  30  .April,  33  Henry  VI.  testifying  that  the  said 
William  took  oath  before  him  that  he  would  be  a  true  Englishman 
and  bear  allegiance  to  Henry  YI.  and  his  successors  and  keep  the  laws  of 
England. 

April  25.  Licence,  for  1  mark  paid  in  the  hanaper,  for  Richard  Ford  and  Mercy 
Westminster,  his  wife,  William  Saundre  and  Joan  his  wife  and  John  Collard  to  grant  a 
messuage,  230  acres  of  land,  32  acres  of  wood  and  12^.  rent  in  Westbargh, 
Bansted,  Ewell  and  Sandon,  co.  Surrey,  held  in  chief,  to  Richaixi 
niyngworth,  knight,  chief  baron  of  the  Exchequer,  John  Denham,  esquire, 
Hugh  Fcnne,  William  Essex  and  Henry  Merland  and  their  heirs  and 
assigns. 

May  12.  Pardon  to  Richard  Marshall   of  Scawton,  co.  York,  'yoman,'  of  his 

Westminster,   outlawry  in  the  county  of  the  city  of  York  for  not  appearing  to  answer  the 

king  fox   certain   trespasses,  he    having   surrendered   to  the   Marshalsea 

prison,  as  John  Markham,  knight,  chief  justice  of  the  King's  Bench,  has 

certified. 

May  15.  Ratification  of  the  estate  which  William  Thorneton  hcs  as  rector  of  the 

Westminster,   parish  church  of  Enfeld,  C3.  Stafford,  in    the  diocese    of  Coventry  and 

Lichfield.  By  p.s. 


6  EDWABD  IV.— Pakt  I.  519 


1466«  Membrane  12— coit^ 

May  16.         PreseDtation   of  Robert  Abdj   to  the  parish   church  of  Campsall,   in 
Westminster,   the  diooese  of  York,  void  by  the  resignation  of  Robert  Ayscogh.  By  K. 

May  14.  Pardon  to  John  Lewekenore  late  of  Wcstgrenested,  co.  Sussex,  esquire, 
Westminster,  of  his  outhiwry  in  London  for  not  appearing  before  the  justices  of  the 
Bench  to  satisfy  John  NichoU,  citizen  and  grocer  of  London,  of  a  debt  of 
197/.  2«.  which  the  latter  recovered  against  him  in  the  couit  of  Henry  YI. 
he  having  surrendered  to  the  Flete  prison  and  satisfied  the  said  John 
Nicholl  of  the  said  107/.  2$,  as  Robert  Danby,  knight,  chief  justice  of  the 
Bench,  has  certified,  provided  that  he  satisfy  the  king  of  all  that  pertains 
to  him. 


Membrane  11. 

March  17.  Grant,  during  office,  from  Michaelmas  last  to  John  Fogge,  knight, 
Westmioster.  treasurer  of  the  household,  of  all  issues  and  profits  of  the  king's  coinage  in 
tlie  counties  of  Cornwall  and  Devon  at  the  hands  of  the  receiver  general  of 
the  duchy  of  Cornwall,  all  issues  and  profits  from  the  king's  mines  in  the 
counties  of  Cornwall  and  Devon  and  other  counties  of  England  and  all 
customs  and  subsidies  and  sums  of  money  from  pieces  of  tin  or  fodders  of 
lead  shipped  to  Calais  or  other  foreign  parts,  for  the  payment  of  the 
expenses  of  the  household.  And  in  the  mean  time  the  king  will  mnt  no 
licences  for  such  shipment  to  foreign  parts  other  than  the  town  of  Calais. 

ByK. 

March  14.        Grant  to  the  king's  servant  Richard  Fowler  or  his  executors  or  assigns 

Westminster,  of  the  colUtion  to  the  next  vacant  prebend  in  the  collegiate  church  or  free 

chapel  of  Brigenorth,  co.  Salop,  provided  that  this  grant  shall  not  extend 

to  any  resignation  on  exchange  of  benefices.  By  K. 

March  14.        Grant  to  Henry  Holthorpe,  esquire,  and  William  Nicholas,  clerk,  of  the 

Westminster,  collation  to  the  deanery  of  the  king's  free  chapel  of  St,  Martin  le  Grand, 

London,  at  its  next  voidance.  By  p.8. 

March  5.        General  pardon  to  John  Waleis  late  of  Estraddon,  co.  Devon, '  gentilman,' 

W^estminster.  alias  late  of  the  parish  of  St.  Clement  Danes  without  the  Bar  of  the  New 

Temple,  London,  co.  Middlesex,  esquire,  alias  late  of  Thorneton,  co.  Devon, 

alias  late  of  Colbrokford,  co.  Devon,  of  all  ofiences  committed  by  him 

before  4  November,  1  Edward  IV.  By  p.s. 

May  13.  Grant  for  life  to  the  king's  councillor  William  Notyngham  of  a  yearly 
Westminster,  rent  of  40/.  from  28  August,  5  Edward  IV*  viz.  20/.  from  the  fee  farm  of 
the  town  of  Gloucester  and  20/.  from  the  farm  of  the  manor  of  Berton  by 
Gloucester  and  the  king's  weirs  in  the  manor  of  Mynsterworth  and  a 
moiety  of  the  weir  of  Denne  at  the  hands  of  the  abbot  of  St.  Peter's, 
Gloucestery  or  the  sheriff  of  the  county.  By  p.s. 

May  10.  Licence  for  William  Canynges,  merchant  of  Bristol,  to  found  a  chantry 
Westminster,  of  one  chaplain  to  celebrate  divine  service  daUy  at  the  altar  of  St.  Ejttharine 
in  the  church  of  St.  Mary  Rededif,  Bristol,  for  the  good  estate  of  the  king, 
Elizabeth,  queen  of  England,  his  consort,  bis  daughter,  the  prinoess  Elica- 
bethj  his  mother  Cicely,  duchess  of  York,  his  kinsman  George,  archbishop 
of  York,  and  the  said  William  and  Joan  his  wife  and  for  their  souls  after 
death,  to  be  called  the  chantry  of  William  Canynges,  merchant  of  Bristol ; 
and  for  the  alienation  in  mortmain  by  him  to  the  said  chaplain  of  lands  and 
other  possessions,  not  held  in  chief,  to  the  value  of  10/.  yearly. 

By  p.s.  and  for  20/.  paid  in  the  hanaper. 

Memorandum.     On  22  November  in  the  present  year  Peter  Lawelesj 

perpetual  chaplain  oftJie  said  chantry^  acquired  from  the  said  William 

a  yearly  rent  qf  10/.  from  13  messuages  of  the  latter  in  Bristol  in  full 

satisfaction. 


620  CALENDAR  OF  PATENT  ROLLS. 


146t).  Membrane  10. 

March  11.        General  pardon  to  William  Wandesford  of  London,  esquire.  By  p.6. 

Westminster. 

March  12.  Grant  to  William  Huggeford,  esquire,  and  his  heirs  male  of  the  manor 
WestmiDster.  of  Braunston,  co.  Northampton,  and  the  advowson  of  the  church  of 
Braunston,  in  the  king's  hands  hy  the  forfeiture  of  Thomas,  late  lord  Roos, 
knight,  to  hold  the  same  by  the  services  of  as  many  knights'  fees  and  as 
many  other  rents  and  services  as  they  were  held  by  before  4  March,  1 
Edward  IV.  .  By  p.s. 

March  7.  Qrant  to  William  Rylandes  and  his  heirs  of  a  cottage  and  a  vacant  plot 
Westminster,  of  land  containing  one  rood  lying  in  ^  le  8 wyn  market '  by  Llchefeldstrete 
in  the  town  of  Tamworth,  co.  Sti^ord,  in  the  king's  hands  by  reason  of  an 
outlawi*y  promulgated  against  William  Smyth  late  of  FoUesworth,  co. 
Stafford,  'yoman,'  for  treason  and  felony,  rendering  2d,  yearly  at  the 
receipt  of  liie  Exchequer.  By  K. 

1467. 

March  1.        General  pardon  to  Roland  Theyne  late  of  Northmymmes,  co.  Hertford, 
Westminster.   « laborer.'  By  p.s. 

1466. 

April  30.        Pardon  to  Master  Thomas  Kent,  doctor  of  either  law,  second  in  the 

Westminster,  office  of  the  privy  seal,  king's  councillor,  late  clerk  of  the  council,  citizen 

of  London,  of  all  offences  committed  by  liim,  and  all  fines,  amercements, 

debts,  accounts  and  arrears  due  from  him  to  the  king.  By  p.8. 

May  4.  Licence  for  William  Awen,  clerk,  John  Wyntryngham,  clerk,  and  John 

Westminster.  Brereton,  executors  of  the  will  of  Richard  Wartre,  late  citizen  and  alderman 
of  York,  or  their  executors  to  foimd  a  perpetual  chantry  of  one  chap- 
lain to  celebrate  divine  service  at  the  altar  of  St.  Thomas,  archbishop 
of  Canterbuiy,  in  an  aisle  in  the  church  of  St.  Saviour,  York,  for  the  souls 
of  the  said  Richard  and  Alice  and  Alice  his  wives  and  their  relations  and 
benefactors  and  the  souls  of  those  for  whom  the  said  Richard  was  bound  to 
pray,  according  to  their  ordinance,  to  be  called  the  chantry  of  Richard 
Wartir.  By  p.s. 

May  16.  Licence  for  the  alienation  in  frank  almoin  by  the  king's  kinsman  Henry, 

Westminster,  eafl  of  Essex,  and  Isabel  his  wife,  the  king's  aunt,  of  20  acres  of  land  in 
the  parish  of  Asshen,  co.  Essex,  within  the  honour  of  Clare,  held  in  chief, 
to  the  Augustinian  prior  and  friars  of  Clare,  of  the  king's  foundation, 
that  they  may  pray  for  the  good  estate  of  the  king  and  the  said  earl  and 
his  wife,  and  for  their  souls  after  death.  By  p.s. 

Membrane  9. 

July  5.  General  pardon  to  Richard  Denton  alicLs  Wymsold,  alicu  Wymesw(Ad 

Westminster,  of  Denton,  co.  Lincoln,  esquire,  of  all  offences  committed  by  hun  before 
8  July  last. 

July  4.  Grant  for  life  to  Joan  Turgys,  for  her  good  service  to  the  king's  father 

Westminster,  and  to  the  king  while  yet  at  a  tender  age,  of  20/.  yearly  from  Michaelmas, 
3  Edward  IV.  viz.  10/.  from  the  fee  farm  of  the  city  of  Worcest-er  and  10/. 
from  the  issues  of  the  county  of  Worcester,  in  lieu  of  a  like  grant  to  her  of 
20/,  yearly  from  the  issues  of  the  manor  of  Eltham,  co.  Kent,  on  12 
August,  1  Edward  IV.  by  letters  patent  surrendered.  By  p.s. 

July  8.  Pardon  to  John  Costell  of  Bolney,  co.  Sussex, '  gentilmau,'  of  his  out- 

Westminster,  lawiy  in  the  county  of  Sussex  for  not  appearing  before  the  king  to  satisfy 
him  of  his  ransom  for  not  holding  Edward  Pycombe  late  of  Twynem,  co. 
Sussex,    '  husbondmnn,'  and   Robert  Bury   of  Twynem,   *•  husbondman,' 


6  EDWARD  IV.— Pabt  L  521 


1466.  '  Membrane  9— cant, 

before  the  late  king  at  a  certain  day  to  answer  William  Sonde,  John  Ledjs, 
Richard  Profyte  and  Richard  Jay  on  a  plea  of  trespass,  as  he  made  main- 
prise, he  having  surrendered  to  the  Marshalsea  prison,  as  John  Markham, 
chief  justice  of  the  King*s  Bench,  has  certified,  provided  that  he  satisfy  the 
kirfg. 

April  28.  Grant  to  the  king's  sei*vitor  Robert  Halle  and  the  heirs  male  of  his  body 
Westminster,  of  a  messuage  called  *  Cobbesole '  and  80  acres  of  land  and  30  acres  of 
wood  in  the  parish  (sic)  of  Eynesford,  Sayntmariecray  and  Sutton  at  Hone, 
CO.  Kent,  a  messuage  called  'Chapmanford'  and  40  acres  of  land  in  the 
parish  of  Eynesford  aforesaid  and  Lomyngiston,  co.  Kent,  a  messuage 
called  '  le  Courte,'  200  acres  of  land  and  2  acres  of  wood  in  the  said  parish 
of  Eynesford,  two  messuages  and  16  acres  of  land  in  the  town  and  parish  of 
Elthara,  co.  Kent,  a  meadow  containing  4  acres  in  the  parish  of  Newenton 
by  Suthwerk,  co.  Surrey,  and  a  messuage  in  Suthwerk,  co.  Surrey,  late  of 
Robert  Mirfyn,  rebel,  and  in  the  king's  hands  by  his  forfeiture,  to  hold  the 
same  by  the  services  of  as  many  knights'  fees  and  as  many  other  rents  and 
services  as  they  were  held  by  before  the  first  day  of  March,  1  Edward  IV. 

By  p,8. 

July  2.  Grant  to  Thomas  Seyntleger,  one  of  the  esquires  of  the  body,  and  the 

Weftminster.  heirs  male  of  his  body  of  the  manors  of  Weston  called  *  Colvyles,'  Moynes 
in  Weston,  Loppehams  in  Carleton  and  Leverers  in  Weston,  a  tenement 
and  60  acres  of  land  in  Willyngham,  a  messuage  in  Weston  and  all  lands, 
rents,  reversions,  possessions,  knights'  fees  and  advowsons  in  Colvyles, 
Moynest  Loppehams,  Levereres,  Snaythes,  Gatwardes,  Carleton  and  Wil- 
liugham,  co.  Cambridge,  late  of  Thomas  Fynderne,  knight,  and  in  the 
king's  hands  by  reason  of  his  forfeiture  and  by  virtue  of  an  act  in  Parlia- 
ment at  Westminster^  4  November,  1  Edward  IV.  with  courts  leet,  views 
of  frank-pledge,  parks,  warrens,  stews,  fairs,  markets  and  all  other  profits, 
to  hold  the  same  from  4  March,  I  Edward  lY.  By  p.s. 

July  9.  Grant  to  the  king's  brother  George,  duke  of  Clarence,  and  the  heirs  of 

WeBtminster.  his  body  of  the  reversion  on  the  death  of  Guy  Fairfax  of  8  messuages,  20 
bovates  of  land  and  16  acres  of  pasture  in  Carleton  by  Hemesley  with  the 
agistment  of  the  moor  of  Carleton,  co.  York,  which  the  latter  holds  for  life 
of  the  grant  of  Thomas  Roos  late  lord  of  Roos,  knight,  by  the  name  of  all 
the  lands,  rents  and  services  which  the  said  Thomas  had  in  Carleton  and 
an  enclosure  called  4e  Cowhouse  in  le  Grave'  there  with  the  agistment  of 
the  moor ;  the  said  reversion  belonging  to  the  king  by  reason  of  an  acl  in 
Parliament  at  Westminster,  4  November,  1  Edward  IV.  By  p.s. 

July  16.  Pardon  to  John,  bishop  of  Worcester,  and  the  dean  and  chapter  of  the 
Westmiiuter.  collegiate  church  of  Holy  Trinity,  Westbury,  co.  Gloucester,  of  all  dona- 
tions, alienations  and  perquisitions  of  lands  and  tenements  held  in  chief  and 
all  donations  and  perquisitions  in  mortmain  without  licence  before  12  July, 
and  all  offences  against  the  statutes  of  provisors  and  premunire  before  that 
date.  By  p.s. 

Mbmbranb  8. 

July  8.  Commission  to  Thomas  Ursewyk,  Thomas  Burgoyn,  John  Baldewyn  and 

Westminster.  William  Dunthom  to  enquire  into  the  supplication  of  Hugh  Wyche,  knight, 
citizen  and  alderman  of  London,  Richard  Lee  and  Ralph  Yemey,  citizens 
and  aldermen  of  London,  Richard  Fouler  and  John  Parker  that  whereas 
Robert  Whitingham,  knight,  late  esquire,  was  seised  in  his  demesne  as  of 
fee  of  a  messuage  in  London  in  the  parish  of  St.  Christopher  by  lez  Stokkys 
in  the  ward  of  Bradstrete  between  the  church  of  St.  Christopher  and  the 
cemetery  of  the  church  on  the  west,  the  i*ectory  of  the  church  on  the  north, 
a  tenement  pertaining  to  the  church  on  the  east  and  the  highway  of  Brad- 
strete  on  the  south,  three  messuages  in  the  parish  of  St.  Peter  le  Poor  in 


522  CALENDAR  OF  PATENT  ROLLS. 


1466.  Membrane  8 — cont, 

the  said  ward  between  a  tenement  pertaining  to  the  church. of  St.  Thomas 
Aeon,  and  the  tenements  and  gardens  sometimes  of  Elias  David  on  the  west, 
the  common  hall,  tenement  and  garden  pertaining  to  the  commonalty  of 
'  taloughchaundelers  '  on  the  east  and  north  and  the  highway  of  Bradstrete 
on  the  south,  and  a  messuage  in  the  parish  of  St.  Fetei^  Cornhill,  in  the 
ward  of  Bisshopesgate,  between  the  common  hall  of  the  tailors  of  London 
and  a  tenement  pertaining  to  the  fraternity  of  St.  John  Baptist  of  that  art 
on  the  west  and  north,  a  tenement  of  Valentine  Bryland  on  the  west  and 
the  highway  there  on  the  east,  and  by  deed  dated  20  July,  35  Henry  VI. 
which  they  are  prepared  to  show,  by  the  name  of  Robert  Whitingham, 
esquire,  son  and  heir  of  Robert  Whitingham,  knight,  deceased,  enfeoffed  the 
said  petitioners  and  one  William  Fyssher,  now  deceased,  of  the  said 
messuages,  and  they  were  seised  of  the  same  and  received  the  esplees  and 
continued  their  estates  therein  until  30  October,  4  Edward  IV.  and  by  an 
act  in  Parliament  at  Westminster,  4  November,  1  Edward  IV.  the  said 
Robert  was  attainted  of  high  treason  and  treasonable  murder  of  the  king's 
father  Richard,  late  duke  of  York,  en  30  December  then  last  past,  and  it 
was  ordained  that  he  should  forfeit  all  the  possessions  which  he  held  on  the 
said  30  December,  by  an  inquisition  taken  at  the  Guildhall  on  the  said 
30  Octx)ber  before  Ralph  Josselyn,  then  mayor  and  escheator  of  the  said 
city,  it  was  found  that  the  said  Robert  was  seised  on  4  March,  1  Edward 
IV.  of  the  said  messuages  by  the  names  of  a  tenement  which  James  Welles, 
draper,  lately  held,  a  messuage  with  two  tenements  annexed  in  the  parish 
of  St.  Peter  le  Poor,  and  a  messuage  which  Thomas  Ougle,  *  carpenter,' 
then  held  at  farm,  and  the  same  were  taken  into  the  king's  hands  by  the 
said  escheator  and  the  petitioners  removed  from  possession,  and  by  letters 
patent  dated  15  December,  4  Edward  IV.  the  king  granted  the  same  to 
Thomas  Mountgomery,  knight,  and  the  heirs  male  of  his  body  and  the 
latter  entered  into  them  and  still  remains  seised  of  them;  but  that 
the  said  Robert  was  never  seised  of  the  same  or  had  any  right  therein 
after  the  said  20  July,  wherefore  they  pray  that  justice  may  be  done. 

ByK. 

Membrane  7. 

May  14.  Grant  for  life  to  the  king^s  servitor  Edward  Hargille,  one  of  the  yeomen 

Westminfiier.  of  the  crown,  of  the  office  of  ranger  in  the  king's  forest  of  Wolmere  and 
the  hay  of  Halnesholte,  co.  Southampton,  and  2d,  daily  for  wages  from  the 
farm  of  Colemere,  co.  Southampton,  at  the  hands  of  the  prior  of  Southwyko 
as  were  allowed  in  the  Great  Roll  of  38  Edward  III.  to  Thomas  de  Hampton, 
then  sheriff  of  the  county,  for  the  vages  of  William  de  Boltesham,  then 
ranger ;  in  lieu  of  a  like  grant  by  letters  patent  dated  20  July  1  Edward 
TV.  surrendered  so  far  as  the  said  office  is  concerned.  Grant  to  him  also 
for  life  of  13*.  4<f.  yearly  from  Michaelmas  next  from  the  said  fJarm  for  a 
robe  by  reason  of  his  office  of  keeper  of  the  king's  park  of  Fremantill,  as 
allowed  as  above  to  the  said  sheriff  fora  robe  of  .lohn  de  Foxle,  then  keeper, 
and  5  marks  yearly  for  bringing  water  to  the  said  park  in  summer  time  for 
the  king's  deer  and  game  there.  By  K. 

Feb,  20.  Grant  for  life  to  the  king's  servitor  Thomas  Cornysshe,  esquire,  the 

WcBtminstcr.   king's  privy  cook,  of  two  ruinous  tenements  in  the  parish  of  St.  Benedict 
Shorlog,  London,  and  two  ruinous  cottages  with  a  garden  annexed  in  the 
parish  of  All  Hallows,  Markelane,  London,  which  John  Rypon  lately  had. 
Vacated  because  elsewhere  in  the  fifth  year, 

July  1.  Licence,  for  20*.  paid  in  the  hanaper,  for  John  Gaynesford  the  elder, 

Westminster,   osquire,  to  grant  the^  manor  of  Poyle  in  Quldeford,  Stoke,  Slyfeld,  Chedyng- 

fold  and   elsewhere  in    the  county    of  Surrey,  held    in  chief,    to  Otuel 

Worseley,    esquire,    Thomas    Ursewyke,   recorder   of    London,    Thomas 


6  EDWARD  IV.— Pabt  I.  623 


1466.  Membrane  7^  cant. 

Molyneux,  Robert  Moljneux  and  Peter  Alford  for  the  life  of  Anne 
his  wife^  one  of  the  daughters  of  the  said  Otuel,  with  remainder  to 
himself  and  his  heirs  by  her  and  final  remainder  to  himself  and  his  heirs. 

Julj  12.  Grant  for  life  to  the  king's  servant  Richard  Hunte  of>  an  annuity  of  iO/. 

Westminster,  from  Michaelmas  last  from  the  fee  farm  of  the  town  of  Guldeford,  co. 

Surrey.  By  p.s. 

July  15.  Grant  to  Thomas  Herbert  the  elder  and  Thomas  Saintleger,  esquires  of 

Westminster,  the  body,  of  the  custody  of  all  manors,  lands,  possessions,  knights'  fees 

and  advowsons  which  Simon  Melbume,  esquire,  held  in  chief  on  the  day 

of  his  death,  during  the  minority  of  Thomas  his  son  and  heir,  with  the 

marriage  of  the  latter,  and  so  from  heir  to  heir  during  minority.  By  p.t. 


MSMBRANB  6. 

June  12.         General  pardon  to  Robert  Filly  aliat  Steynolf  of  Bishop's  Lynn,  co. 
Westminster.   Norfolk,  merchant.  By  p.?. 

May  24.  Tnspeorimus  and  confirmation  to  the  men  of  the  town  of  Andevere  o! 

Wesuninster.  letters  patent  dated  20  November,  26  Benry  VI.  inspecting  and  confirming 
the  following : — 

1 .  A  charter  dated  at  Clarendon,  6  July,  40  Henry  III. 

2.  Another  charter  of  the  same  date. 

3.  Letters  patent  dated  12  February,  5  Henry  lY.  inspecting  and  con- 

firming letters  patent  dated  2  May,  14  Richard  II.  inspecting  and 
confirming  the  following  : — 

(1.)  A  charter  dated  at  Westminster,  15  February,  12  Henry  III. 

(2.)  A  charter  dated  at  Westminster,  24  November,  29  Edward 

III.  ICharter  Boll,  29  Edtcard  III.  No,  6,]  inspecting  and 

confirming  a    charter    dated  at  Westminster,    15   February, 

12  Henry  III.  For  26^.  8^^.  paid  in  the  hanaper. 

May  17.  Signification  to  J.  bishop  of  Coventry  and  Lichfield  of  the  royal  assent 

Westminster,  to  the  election  of  Robert  Twys  as  abbot  of  St.  Mary's,  Rowcestre,  of  the 
order  of  St.  Augustine. 

April  29.  Grant  for  life  to  Nicholas  Thomas,  one  of  the  king's  Serjeants  at  arms, 
Westminster,  of  1 2d.  daily  for  wages  from  Michaelmas,  4  Edward  IV.  at  the  receipt  of 
the  Exchequer  with  a  livery  of  the  suit  of  the  esquires  of  the  household 
yearly  at  Christmas  at  the  great  wardrobe  ;  in  lieu  of  a  like  ^rant  to  him 
of  I2d,  daily  from  the  farm  of  the  town  of  Kyngesthorp,  co.  Northampton, 
by  letters  patent,  surrendered.  By  p.s. 

March  28.       Grant  for  life  to  Robert  Allerton  and  Ralph  Clyderowe  of  the  town  of 

Westminster.  Calais  of  10/.  yearly  from  the  20/.  due  to  the  king  from  the  parish  church 

of  Rotheram,  co.  x  ork,  at  the  hands  of  the  abbot  and  convent  of  Roufford, 

in  lieu  of  a  like  grant  of  the  same  to  the  said  Robert  by  letters  patent, 

surrendered.  By  p.8. 

Mbmbrakb  5. 

March  28.  Pardon  to  Thomas  a  Wodde,  late  soldier  of  the  town  of  Calais,  now  in 
Westminster,  duress  there,  for  having,  on  his  own  confession,  with  other  misruled 
persons,  stolen  divers  goods,  viz.  a  <  testour,'  two '  smockea '  (camisiiu)  and  a 
kerchief  {Jiamiolafn)  in  a  garden  of  John  Logay  and  300^  *  billetts '  in  a 
house,  and  for  having  also  gone  to  a  chamber  of  one  James  Radclyff  at 
Calais  and  entered  it  by  a  window  and  stolen  two  candlesticks  of  '  laten,' 
two  ^  quarte  pottes '  (olios)  of  *  pewter,'  two  sheets  (linthiamina)^  a  coverlet 
and  a  pair  of  hose ;  because  the  stolen  goods  do  not  exceed  the  value  of 


624  CALENDAR  OF  PATENT  ROLLS. 


14i66.  Membrane  Kh^cont, 

26«.  8df.  and  the  said  Thomas  i^  a  clerk  and  has  done  good  service  to  the 
king.  By  p.s.  [1901.] 

March  29.        Grant  for  life  to  Richard  Hajnes,  esquire,  of  the  constableship  or  office 

WestminsUr.   of  constable  of  the  king's  castle  of  Siedisbury,  co.  Wilts,  receiving  the 

accustomed  fees  from  the  issues  of  the  county  of  Wilts,  with  other  profits 

belonging  to  the  office,  in  lieu  of  a  like  grant  of  the  same  to  Geoffirey 

Dore  by  letters  patent,  surrendered.  By  p.s. 

March  30.  Grant,  during  pleasure,  to  the  prior  and  convent  of  Friars  Preachers 
Westminster,  iu  ihe  city  of  London  of  20/.  yearly  at  the  Exchequer  of  the  king's  alms 
from  Michaelmas,  39  Henry  YI.  as  they  have  had  of  the  grant  of  Henry 
III.  Edward  I.  Edward  H.  Edward  III.  Ricliard  II.  Henry  IV.  Henry  V. 
and  Henry  YI.  that  they  may  pray  for  the  good  estate  of  the  king  and 
the  souls  of  his  said  progenitors.  .  By  p.s. 

April  2.  Signification  to  J.  bishop  of  Lincoln  of  the  royal  assent  to  the  election 

Westminster,   of  Richard  Horncastell,  monk  of  the  monsftery  of  SS.  Peter  and  Paul 

and  St.  Oswald,  Bardney,  of  the  order  of  St.  Benedict^  as  abbot  of  that 

place.  By  pjs. 

April  1 .  Mandate  to  the  cscheator  in  the  counties  of  Warwick  and  Leicester  for 

Wcstmioster.   the  restitution  of  the  temporalities  of  the  abbey  of  St.  Edith,  Pollesworth, 

to  Margaret  Ruskyn,  nun  of  the  monasteiy,  whose  election  as  abbess  J. 

bishop  of  Coventry  and  Lichfield  has  confirmed  and  whose  fealty  the  king 

has  ordered  to  be  taken  by  the  abbot  of  Mery  valle.  By  K« 

The  like  to  the  following :  — 

The  escheator  in  the  county  of  Stafford. 
The  escheator  in  the  counties  of  Nottingham  and  Derby. 
The  mayor  of  the  city  of  Coventry,  escheator  in  that  city. 
Writ  de  intendendo  in  pursuance  to  the  tenants. 

April  2.  General  pardon  to  Richard  Basset  of  Salisbury,  co.  Wilts,  alias  late  of 

Westminster.   Worcester, '  goldsmith,'  of  all  offences  committed  by  him  before  1  March, 

4  Edward  IV.  By  p.p. 

April  7.  Mandate  to  the  escheator  in  the  county  of  Lincoln,  for  the  restitution  of 

Westminster,  the  temporalities  of  the  abbey  of  Bardeney  to  Richard  Horucastell,  monk 

of  the  monastery,  whose  election  as  abbot  J.  bishop  of  Lincoln  has  confirmed 

and  whose  fealty  the  king  has  taken.  By  K. 

The  like  to  the  following : — 

The  escheator  in  the  county  of  York. 

Thomas  Grantham,  mayor  and  escheator  of  the  city  of  Lincoln. 
Wric  de  intendendo  in  pursuance  to  the  tenants. 

April  10.         General  pardon   to   Laurence  Gilberd  late  of  Esthanyfeld,  co.  Essex, 

Westminster.   « husbondman  *  aJias  *  yoman '  alias  '  laborer '  alias  *  tapster,'  alias  *  bruer,' 

and  Lettice  his  wife,  *•  spenster  *   alias  *  hoswyf,'  of  all  offences  committed 

by  them  before  24  March  last.  By  p.8. 

April  3.  Grant  for  life  to  John  Marten^  one  of  the  king's  seijeants  at  arms,  of  I2d. 

Westminster,  daily  for  Ids  wages  at  the  receipt  of  the  Exchequer  with  a  livery  yearly  of 

the  suit  of  the  esquires  of  the  household  at  Christmas  at  the  great  wardrobe, 

in  lieu  of  another  grant  to  him  of    the  same  wages  by  letters  patent, 

sun'endered  so  far  as  concerns  the  said  wages.  By  p.s. 

April  17.         General  pardon  to  John  Bayrstawe,  of  Ovynden,  co.  York,  *  yoman,'  and 
Penley.       Joan  his  wife  of  all  offences  committed  by  them  before  12  April  last. 

By  p.s. 

March  27.        Grant  to  Agnes,  late  the  wife  of  Richard  Firvill,  of  the  custody  of  iedl  the 

Westminster,  lands  late  of  Thomas  Storne,  deceased,  tenant  in  chief,  during  the  minority 

of  Henry  his  brother  and  heir,  with  the  marriage  of  the  latter,  and  so  from 

heir  to  heir  during  minority.  By  p.s. 


6  EDWARD  IV.— Pakt  I,  625 


1466.  Membrane  4. 

July  21.  Grant  for  life  to  the  king's  consort  Elizabeth,  queen  of  England  and 

Westminster.  France,  and  lady  of  Ireland,  of  the  king's  manor  of  Shene  with  the  park, 
warren,  courts  leet,  views  of  frank-pledge,  liberries,  franchises,  wards, 
marriages,  reliefs,  escheats,  forfeitures,  fairs,  fisheries,  and  other  profits, 
and  the  king's  lordships  of  Petirsham  and  Uame  annexed  to  the  manor, 
with  warrens,  courts  leet,  views  of  frank-pledge,  liberties,  franchises,  wards, 
marriages,  reliefs,  escheats,  forfeitures,  fisheries  and  other  profits.      By  p.s. 

July  17.  Grant  for  life  to  Margaret  de  la  Pole  of  certain  leets  with  view  of  frank- 

Westminster,  pledge  wliich  the  king  has  in  all  lands  late  of  Walter  de  la  Pole,  knight, 
and  his  tenants  and  the  inhabitants  in  the  towns  of  Sauston,  Dernforth  and 
Trumpyngton.  co.  Cambridge,  and  goods  of  felons,  chattels  of  fugitives, 
strays  and  free  warren  in  the  same,  with  remainder  to  Joan  Ingaldesthorpe 
for  life,  and  final  remainder  to  the  king's  kinsman  John  Nevile,  earl  of 
Northumberland,  and  Isabel  his  wife,  and  the  heirs  of  the  latter,  'to  hold  the 
same  by  one  red  rose  yearly.  By  p.s. 

July  3.  Pardon  to  Henry  Beaumont  of  Lasselhall,  co.  York,  of  all  lands,  tene- 

Westminster.  ments,   fines,  penalties,  forfeitures,  goods  and  chattels  pertaining  to  the 

king  by  reason  of  his  outlawry  at  the  suit  of  William  Cook.  By  p.s* 

Aug.  18.         General  pardon  to  Thomas  Philips  cUias  Phelps  late  of  Ree  or  Rede  in 
Penlcy.       the  parish  of  Queddesley,  co.  Gloucester,  '  yoman,'  alias  '  chapman,'  alias 
*  husbondman,'  of  all  offences  committed  by  him  before  0  February  last. 

By  p.s. 

Aug.  7.  Grant  to  Nicholas  Latymer,  knight,  and  his  heirs  of  two  messuages,  200 

Westminster,  acres  of  land  and  40  acres  of  pasture  in  Whitecherch,  co.  Dorset,  four 
messuages,  200  acres  of  land,  30  acres  of  meadow,  40  acres  of  pasture  and 
6  acres  of  wood  in  Estpullam  and  Westpullam,  co.  Dorset,  and  a  moiety  of 
the  manor  of  Childokford, .  co.  Dorset,  and  the  advowson  of  the  church 
there,  with  knights'  feei,  courts  leet,  fairs,  markets,  warrens  and  all  other 
profits,  late  of  the  said  Nicholas  and  in  the  king's  hands  by  an  act  of  for- 
feiture in  Parliament  at  Westminster,  4  November,  1  Edward  IV.  and  all 
issues  of  the  same  from  the  said  4  November.  By  p.s. 

Aug.  22.  Revocation  of  protection  with  clause  volumnsy  for  one  year,  granted  9 

Beckley  Jnly  last  by  htters  patent  to  Robert  Laxton,  citizen  and  *vynter'  of 
London,  staying  on  the  king's  service  in  the  company  of  the  king's  kins* 
man  Richard,  earl  of  Warwick  and  Salisbury,  captain  of  the  town  and 
castle  of  Calais,  on  the  safe  custody  and  victualling  of  the  same,  because  he 
delays  in  London,  as  Henry  Waver,  knight,  and  William  Constantyne, 
sheriffs  of  London,  have  certified. 

July  5.  Grant  to  the  king's  kinsman   G.  archbishop  of  York  of  full  power  to 

Westminster,  receive  into  the  king's  protection  any  persons  indicted  of  treason  within  the 

lordship  of  Hexham    or  Hextildesham    and   Hextildeshamshire  and    the 

liberties  of  the  same  and  the  lordship  of  Tyndale.     [Foedera,']  By  K. 

July  28.         Grant  for  life  to  the  king's  kinsman  John  Neville,  earl  of  Northumber- 

Westminster.  land,  of  the  custody  of  the  county  of  Northumberland  to  hold  and  exercise 

the  shrievalty  of  the  county  with  the  issues  and  profits,  provided  that  he 

render  his  account  yearly  at   the   Exchequer;   and  grant  that  he  shall 

be  discharged  of  the  sheriffs'  farm  and  all  other  sums  that  cannot  be  levied. 

By  p.s. 

Membrane  3. 

July  12.         Grant  for  life  to  Babilo  Grauntfort  and  John  Grauntfort  of  the  office  of 

Westminster,  bailiff  of  the  town  of  Rye  with  the  accustomed  fees,  in  lieu  of  a  like  grant 

of  the  same  io  the  king's  seiTant  Thomas  Longe,  one  of  the  soldiers  of 


526  CALENDAR  OP  PATENT  ROLLS. 


14bb.  Membrane  3 — cont, 

the  town  of  Calaig^  hj  letters  patent  dated  12  December,  1  Edward  IV. 
surrendered.  Bj  p.s. 

Oct.  8.  General  pardon  to  Henry  Bodrugan  late  of  Bodrugan,  co.  Cornwall, 

Westminster,   esquire.  By  p.8. 

Oct.  9.  Pardon  to  Laurence  Raynforth,  king's  knight,  sheriff  of  the  counties  of 

Weitminster.  Essex  and  Hertford,  for  his  good  service  and  because  of  the  debility  of  the 
gaol  of  Hertford  by  which  divers  escapes  have  happened  in  the  times  of 
other  sheriffs,  of  the  escapes  from  thence  of  Thomas  Penyfadre,  indicted 
of  certain  felonies,  Martin  Rawns,  John  Steward  and  Thomas  Baker,  in 
the  gaol  on  suspicion  of  felony,  John  Bernard,  there  for  the  security 
of  the  peace,  and  John  Chepman  and  John  Gebun,  there  for  certain 
trespasses.  By  p.s. 

Oct.  4.  Revocation  of  protection  with  clause  volumus,  for  one  year,  lately  granted 

WcBtminster.  by  letters  patent  to  Robert  Pyrle  alias  Prylle  staying  on  the  king's  service 
in  the  company  of  Ralph  Wolseley,  king's  esquire,  victualler  of  the  town 
and  castle  of  Calais  and  the  marches]  in  the  parts  of  Picardy,  on  the 
safe-ccstcdy,  defence  and  victualling  of  the  same,  because  he  delays  at 
Norwich,  as  William  Hopton,  esquire,  sheriff  of  the  county  of  Norfolk,  has 
certified. 

Oct.  25.  Pardon  to  John  Kirkby  of  Royston,  co.  Cambridge,  ^yoman,' of  his 

Westminster,  outlawry  in  the  county  of  Middlesex  for  not  appearing  before  the  justices 
of  the  Bench  to  satisfy  the  king  of  his  ransom  for  not  holding  John 
Sandewey  late  of  the  parish  of  St.  Nicholas,  Isle  of  Thanet,  co.  Kent, 
esquire,  before  the  said  justices  at  a  certain  day  to  answer  William  Port, 
esquire,  on  a  plea  of  debt,  as  he  made  mainprise,  he  having  surrendered  to 
the  Flete  prison,  as  Robert  Danby,  chief  justice  of  the  Bench,  has  certified, 
provided  that  he  satisfy  the  king. 

Oct.  27.         Pardon  to  John,  bishop  of  Lincoln,  of  all  escapes  of  persons  convicted 
Westminster,  of  felony  or  attainted  for  any  cause  from  his  custody  before  2  i  October. 

By  p.8. 

Oct.  25.         Grant  for  life  to  David  Chirk,  yeoman  of  the  vestry  of  the  household 
Westminster,  and  keeper  of  the  king's  stuff  within  the  castle  of  Wyndesore,  on  account 
of  his  age  and  impotence,  of  3d,  daily  from  the  fee  farm  of  the  town 
of  New  Windsor  at  the  hands  of  the  sheriff  of  Oxford  and  Berks. 

By  p.B,  [1968.] 

Oct.  25.         Licence  for  John  Sendale,  canon  of   the  collegiate  church  of  Rypon, 

Westminster,  co.  York,  or  his  executor^  to  found  a  perpetual  chantry  of  one  chaplain  to 

celebrate  divine  service  in  the  said  church  according  to  his  ordinance  for 

his  soul  and  the  souls  of  all  for  whom  he  is  bound  to  pray,  to  be  called  the 

chantry  of  John  Sendale.  By  p.s. 

Oct.  18.         Pardon  to  John  Jope  of  Spernen  in  the  parish  of  Bewthek  by  Penryn, 

Westminster,  co.  Cornwall,  *  touker,'  of  his  outlawry  in  the  county  of  Middlesex  for  not 

appearing  before  the  king  at  Westminster  to  answer  for  certain  trespasses, 

he  having  surrendered  to  the  Marshalsea  prison,  as  John  Markham,  knight, 

chief  justice  of  the  King's  Bench,  has  certified. 


Membrane  2. 

Sept.  26.  Appointment  of  William  Herbert,  king's  knight,  lord  Herbert,  as  chief 
Westminster,  justice  of  South  Wales,  king's  chamberlain  of  South  Wales,  steward  of  the 
king's  commote  of  Cantremaure  and  all  the  king's  loi'dships,  manors  and  com- 
motes in  the  counties  of  Kerdikan  and  Kermerdyn,  the  king's  lordships  and 
manors  of  Usk  and  Kerlion,  the  king's  lordships  and  manors  of  Dynas, 
Belth  and  Evyas  and  the  king's  manor  and  lordship  of  Clyfford,  constable 


6  EDWARD  IV.— Part  I.  527 


1466*  Membrane  2 — cont, 

of  the  king's  castles  of  Usk,  Kerlion,  Djnas  and  Belth  in  South  Wales 
and  Clyfford  in  the  marches  of  Wales,  chief  forester  of  the  forests  of  Usk 
and  Kerlion  and  all  the  king's  forests  in  South  Wales,  and  master  of  the 
hunt  of  the  same  and  the  king's  chace  of  Trellek  and  parks  of  Usk  and 
KerlloB,  and  grant  to  him  and  the  heirs  male  of  his  body  of  all  the  said 
offices,  receiving  the  accustomed  fees,  with  full  power  of  appointing  officers 
and  ministers,  the  offices  of  sheriffs,  receivers  and  approvers  being  excepted 
and  reserved  to  the  king,  and  power  to  appoint  one  parker  at  the  park  of 
Usk  and  two  parkers  at  the  park  of  Earlion,  with  wages  of  2<f.  dailj 
each  from  the  issues  of  the  lordships  and  manors  of  Usk  and  Kerlion. 

By  p.s. 

Oct.  23.  Revocation  of  protection  with  clause  volumusy  for  one  year,  lately  granted 
Westminster,  by  leiters  patent  to  John  Crope  of  the  town  of  Southampton,  *  marchaunt,' 
alias  '*  skynner,'  staying  on  the  king's  service  in  the  company  of  Ralph 
Wolseley,  esquire,  victualler  of  the  toTfu  and  castle  of  Calais  and  the 
marches  in  the  parts  of  Picardy,  on  the  safe-custody,  defence  and  victualling 
of  the  same,  because  he  delays  at  Southampton,  as  appears  by  certificate  of 
the  sheriff  of  the  county. 

Oct.  24.         Declaration  that  certain  letters  patent  here  annexed  dated  15  January, 

Westmicster.  5  Edward  IV.  purporting  to  be  a  safe-conduct,  at  the  supplication  of  Oliver 

en  Henaff,  for  John  and  Tudgualus,  clerks,  Guillemetus  Legmader  and 

Martin  en  Halquai  and  a  ship  called  le  Seynt  Ives,  have  been  examined  in 

Chancery  and  are  forged. 

Oct.  22.  Grant  to  David,  the  abbot,  and  the  convent  of  the  monastery  of  St. 
Westminster.  Mary,  Clive,  that  whereas  through  the  continuous  rain  a  gr^t  bill  lately 
fell  upon  a  chapel  founded  long  since  apon  the  sea-shoi'e  in  their  manor  of 
Clive,  where  miracles  had  been  wrought,  and  crushed  It  to  the  earth  with 
the  adjoining  buildings,  the  image  of  the  Virgin  and  the  altar  of  the  chapel 
being  miraculously  uninjured,  whereby  thejf  were  greatly  impoverished, 
and  they  have  begun  to  build  another  chapel  in  another  place  within  the 
precinct  of  the  manor,  sparing  neither  labour  nor  expense,  they  may  hence- 
forward have  a  market  weekly  on  Wednesdays  and  fairs  yearly  at  the  feasts 
of  St.  James  the  Apostle  and  the  Exaltation  of  the  Cross  and  the  three 
following  days  within  the  precinct  of  the  manor,  provided  that  it  be  not  to 
the  harm  of  the  neighbouring  markets  and  fairs.  By  p.s. 


14g'7^  Mbmbranb  1. 

Feb.  4.  Inspeximus  and  confirmation  to  Agnes,  the  abbess,  and  the  convent  of 

Westminster.   Lacock  of  the  following  :— 

1.  A  charter  dated  at  Westminster,  3  June,  44  Henry  III.  [Monasticon^ 

voL  vi.  p.  604.] 

2.  Letters  patent  dated  10  February,  22  Richard  II.  inspecting  and 

confirming  to  Agnes,  then  abbes?,  and  the  convent  a  charter  dated 
at  Westminster,  1  May,  8  Edward  II.  inspecting  and  confirming  a 
charter  dated  at  Windsor,  1  October,  44  Uenry  III.  and  confirming 
other  grants.  For  1  mark  paid  in  the  hanaper. 

Feb.  5.  Grant  to  the  king's  servant  John  Howard,  knight,  and  Margaret  his  wife 

Westminster,  and  their  assigns,  for  his  good  service  to  the  king  and  for  200/.  paid  by 
him  to  the  king,  of  the  custody  of  all  lordships,  manore),  lands,  rents,  ser- 
vices, reversions  and  possessions  late  of  Walter  Gorges  of  the  county  of 
Norfolk,  esquire,  tenant  in  chief,  deceased,  and  Mary  his  wife,  deceased^ 
during  the  minority  of  Edmund,  their  son  and  heir,  and  the  custody  of  all 
lordships,  manors,  lands,  rents,  services,  reversions  and  possessions  which 
will  come  into  the  king's  hands  on  the  death  of  Theobald  Gorges,  knight. 


528  CALENDAR  OP  PATENT  BOLLS. 


1467«  Membraihc  1 — cofit. 

grandfather  of  the  said  Edmund,  who  is  his  heir,  during  the  minority  of  the 
said  heir,  with  the  marriage  of  the  said  heir  without  disparagement,  and  so 
from  heir  to  heir  during  minority.  By  K. 

Feh.  20.         General  pardon  to  Richard  Walys  of  Grantham,  co.  Lincoln, '  taillor,' 

W^estmiDster.  alioM  ^  sowlibher,'  aliat  '  yoroan,'  of  all  offences  committed  by  him  before 

8  February  last.  By  p.s. 


Membranes  25d — I9d. 

Commissions  of  the  peace  in  various  counties  pursuant  to  the  statutes  and 
ordinances  of  Winchester,  Northampton,  Westminster  and  Cambridge.  [See 
Appendix.] 

[466.  Membrane  l7d, 

March  20.  Commission  to  William  Yelverton,  knight,  John  Say,  John  Leventhorpe, 
Westminster.  William  Brayn  and  John  Pulter  to  enquire  into  the  petition  of  Luke 
Vynter  son  of  Elizabeth  Vynter,  deceased,  daughter  of  Nicholas  Hywyssh 
late  of  Stanstede  Monntfychet  that  whereas  the  said  Nicholas  his 
grandfather,  whose  heir  he  h,  was  seised  in  his  demesne  as  of  fee  of  a 
messuage,  62  acres  of  land,  5  acres  of  meadow,  10  acres  of  pasture,  4  acres 
of  wood  and  lOs.  rent  in  I/ittle  Hadham,  co.  Hertford,  of  the  grant  and 
enfeoffment  of  one  Margaret  Clynton  late  of  Little  Hadham  late  the  wife  of 
Henry  Clynton,  and  received  the  esplees  thereof,  by  an  inquisition  taken  at 
"Ware,  co.  Hertford,  on  Tuesday  in  the  fourth  week  of  Lent,  11  Henry  IV. 
before  Thomas  Aspall,  then  escheator  in  the  county,  it  was  found  that  one 
John  Fluknet,  convicted  of  high  treason  and  outlawed,  was  seised  on 
Thursday  in  Whitsun  week,  7  Henry  lY.  in  his  demesne  as  of  fee  of  a 
tenement  called  '  Warynstenement '  in  Little  Hadham  of  the  grant  of 
Margaret  Clynton  with  certain  lands  belongbig  to  it  containing  80  acres  of 
land,  meadow,  pasture  and  wood  with  a  rent  of  lOs.  yearly,  and  that  these 
are  the  same  as  the  premises  mentioned  above,  and  the  said  escheator  took 
them  into  the  king's  hands  and  the  said  Nicholas  was  expelled  from  the 
same  by  virtue  of  the  said  inquif.ition  and  letters  patent  dated  31  January, 
9  Henry  IV.  granting  the  same  to  John  Rassh,  esquire,  for  life,  who 
afterwards  died,  but  tliat  the  said  John  Fluknet  never  had  any  right  to  the 
same,  wherefore  he  prays  that  justice  may  be  done.  By  K. 


Membrane  I5d. 

March  10.        Commission  de  walliis  et  fossatis  to  the  king's  kinsman  John,  earl  of 

Westminster,  Northumberland,  Guy  Fairfax,  John  Vavesoure,  Robert  Sheffeld,  Edward 

Saltmerssh^  Robert  Fortyngton  the  elder,  Geoffrey  Blakey,  John  Haldenby, 

John  Berker  and  John  Yeland  in  the  parts  of  Mersland  between  the  rivers 

of  Ouse,  Doon,  Ayer  and  Went  and  the  county  of  Lincoln. 

1467. 

Feb.  8.  The  like  to  Richard  Fynchebek,  Richard  Welby,  John  Pynchebek, 

Westminster.  Thomas  Meers,  Leonard  Thornburgh,  Richard  Fendyk,  Robert  Dokkyng 
and  William  Faynell  from  Skegnes  and  Dodyngton  Pygot  to  Tydde  Gote 
in  the  county  of  Lincoln. 

Feb.  13.  The  like  to  Roger  Leukenore,  knight,  Nicholas  Huse,  esquire,  John 

Westminster.  Fuyst,  John  Goryng,  William  Ernele,  Humphrey  Hewester  and  William 
lioppey  from  the  water  of  Coleworth  to  the  sea  in  the  county  of  Sussex. 


6  EDWARD  IV.— Part  I.  629 


1466.  Membrane  I4d. 

March  4.  Commission  to  Henry  Pomerej,  esquire,  Thomas  Gale  and  Nicholas 
Westminster.  Southcote,  Serjeant  at  arms,  to  enquire  into  the  report  thct  a  hulk  of 
Prussia,  laden  with  divers  goods  and  merchandise,  sailing  to  England 
foundered  near  the  town  of  Plymmouth,  co.  Devon,  and  that  divers  goods 
and  merchandise  and  gear  came  ashore,  and  to  seize  such  goods  and 
merchandise  and  gear. 

Membrane  13J. 

March  20.  Commission  to  the  king's  kinsman  John,  earl  of  Worcester,  justice  of 
Westminster.  North  Wales,  William  Hastynges,  knight,  chamberlain  of  North  Wales, 
Heniy  Bolde,  knight,  aod  William  Gruffith,  William  Bulkeley,  John 
Luthyngton,  auditor  in  North  Wales,  Hugh  Lewes,  Graffith  ap  Robyn» 
Bichard  Tresgarn  and  John  ap  Mered,  esquires,  to  enquire  into  the  report 
that  a  great  part  of  the  rents  and  revenues  of  divers  counties  in  the  county 
of  Caernarvan  adjoining  the  county  of  Merioneth  in  North  Wales  and  the 
fines  of  the  great  turns  in  the  counties  of  Caernarvon  and  Anglesea  in 
North  Wales  have  not  been  paid  since  4  March,  1  Edward  IV.  and  that 
the  king's  tenants  and  officers  there  have  absented  themselves  from  pay- 
ment, and  to  make  arrangement  for  the  payment  of  the  arrears  at  the 
exchequer  of  North  Wales ;  and  grant  to  the  said  chamberlain  of  power  to 
issue  pardons.  By  K. 

Membrane  llcf. 

March  16.        Appointment  of  Balph  Josselyn,  knight-,    citizen    and    alderman    of 

Westminster.  London,  as  justice  for  the  merchants  of  Almain,  who  have  the  house  in  the 

city  of  London  called  ^  Crildehalla  Teutkonicorum*  for  the  recovery  of  debts, 

in  accordance  with  their  ancient  privileges  which  the  king  by  letters  patent 

has  confirmed  for  five  years  from  Midsummer  next. 

Membrane  5d. 

April  D.  Commission  to  Hen  17  Pomerey,  Thomas  Gale,  and  Nicholas  Suthcote, 

Westminster,  one  of  tht;  king's  Serjeants  at  arms,  to  enquire  in  the  counties  of  Devon  and 
Cornwall  into  the  report  that  a  hulk  laden  with  divers  goods  and  merchandise 
of  Bernard  de  la  Barde  and  other  merchants  was  wrecked  near  the  town  of 
Plymmouth,  and  certain  of  the  goods  and  merchandise  came  into  the 
hands  of  the  king's  lieges,  and  to  seize  such  goods  and  merchandise  and  the 
gear  of  the  hulk. 

Commissions  of  array  in  the  counties  of  Somerset,  Cornwall,  Devon, 
Dorset  and  Southampton.     (See  Appendix.) 

Membrane  AJ. 

July  18.  Commission  of  oyer  and  terminer  to  the  king's  brother  George,  duke  of 

Westmiiuter.  Clarence,  the  king's  kinsmen  John,  duke  of  Suffolk,  William,  earl  ol 
Arundel,  John,  earl  of  Worcester,  and  Henry,  earl  of  Essex,  and  Antony 
Wydevile  of  Scales,  knight,  John  Audeley  of  Audeley,  knight,  William 
Stourton  of  Stourton,  knight,  William  Hutynges  of  Hastynges,  knight, 
Richard  Fenys  of  Dacre,  knight,  William  Herbert  of  Herbert,  knight, 
Humphrey  Stafford  of  Suthwyk,  knight,  John  Markham,  knight,  Robert 
Danby,  knight,  William  Yelverton,  knight,  Richard  Byngham,  knight, 
Thomas  Billyng,  William  Lakyn,  Peter  Ardem,  knight,  Robert  Danvers, 
knight,  Walter  Moyle,  knight,  John  Nedeham,  knight,  Richard  Chokke, 
knight,  Thomas  Littilton,  William  Spencer,  mayor  of  Bristol,  Gilbert 

«    86914.  L  L 


530  CALENDAB  OP  PATENT  ROLLS. 


1466.  Membrane  4rf — cont. 

Comemonger,  mayor  of  Southampton,  Thomas  Yooge,  William  Notjngham 
and  Thomas  Wellys  in  the  counties  of  SouthamptODy  Somerset^  Dorset, 
Devon,  Wilts,  Berks,  Oxford  and  Gloucester,  and  the  towns  of  Bristol  and 
Southampton.  By  K. 

July  18.  Commission  to  the  king's  kinsman   John,    earl  of    Worcester,  John 

Westminster.  Audeley,  knight,  Humphrey  Stafford  of  Suthw^'ke,  knight,  Bobert  Danvers, 
knight,  Peter  Arderne,  knight,  Richard  Chokke,  knight,  Thomas  Billjng, 
John  Fogge,  knight,  John  Scotte,  knight,  William  Spencer,  mayor  of 
Bristol,  Gilbert  Cornemonger,  mayor  *  of  Southampton,  Thomas  Yonge, 
William  Notyngham,  Thomas  Wellys,  Robert  Cosyn,  esquire^  and  the 
sheriffs  of  the  counties  of  Southampton,  Somerset,  Dorset,  Devon,  Wilts, 
Berks  and  Gloucester  and  the  towns  of  Bristol  and  Southampton  to  enquire 
into  the  shipment  of  merchandise  in  divers  ports  within  the  counties  of 
Southampton,  Somerset,  Dorset,  Devon,  Wilts,  Gloucester  and  Oxford,  and 
the  ports  and  towns  of  Southampton  and  Bristol  contrary  to  the  statutes, 
to  enquire  concerning  customers,  controllers  and  searchers  in  all  such  ports, 
and  to  seize  all  merchandise  shipped  to  be  taken  to  foreign  parts  contrary 
to  the  statutes  or  brought  from  foreign  ports  without  payment  of  customs 
or  subsidies.  By  K. 

The  like  to  Richard  Illyngworth,  knight,  John  Fogge,  knight,  John 
Scotte,  knight,  Thomas  Tyrell,  knight>  John  Clerk,  Brian  Rouclyff,  John 
Ingoldesby,  John  Derham,  John  Grene,  John  Fyncham,  Henry  Spylman, 
John  Sulyard,  Robert  Cosyn,  William  Bertram,  John  Andrewe,  Simon 
Bisshopestre  and  the  sheriffs  in  the  counties  of  Essex,  Suffolk  and  Norfolk. 

ByK. 

1467.  Mbmbrans  Id. 

Feb.  20.  Commission  to  John  Yonge,  mayor  of  London,  Richard  Dlyngworth, 

Westminster,  knight,  John  Norman,  William  Hulyn,  Richard  Lee,  Hugh  Wyche,  knight, 
Thomas  Coke,  knight,  Matthew  Philippes,  Ralph  Josselyn,  knight,  Ralph 
Verney,  Thomas  Bryan  and  Thomas  Ursewyk,  to  deliver  the  gaol  of 
Neugate  of  Thomas  Brewet  late  of  London,  *  peautrer,'  and  William  Benet 
late  of  London,  *  grocer,'  prisoners  there. 

Feb.  20.  Commission  of  oyer  and  terminer  to  the  king's  brother  Richard,  duke  of 
Westminster.  Gloucester,  the  king's  kinsmen  Richard,  earl  of  Warwick  and  Salisbury, 
and  John,  earl  of  Northumberland,  and  Henry  FitzHugh  of  FitzHugh, 
knight,  Ralph  Graystok  of  Graystok,  knight,  Thomas  Lumley,  knight,  John 
Markeham,  knight,  Robert  Danby,  knight,  William  Yelverton,  knight, 
Peter  Ardern,  knight,  Richard  Byngham,  knight,  Thomas  Billyng,  William 
Lakon,  Robert  Danvers,  knight,  Walter  Moile,  knight,  John  Nedeham, 
knight,  Richard  Chok,  knight,  Thomas  Littelton,  James  Strangweys, 
knight,  Robert  Constable,  knight,  John  Conyers,  knight,  and  John  Marshall, 
mayor  of  York,  within  the  county  and  city  of  Ibrk. 


631 


6  EDWARD  IV.— Part  H. 

1456,  MSMBRANS  23. 

Nov,  8.  Exemption  for  lifo  of  Oliver  Davy,  citizen  and  goldsmith  of  London^ 

WestminBter.  from  being  placed  on  assizes,  juries,  inquisitions,  attaints  or  recognisances 
and  from  being  made  assessor,  taxer  or  collector  of  tenths,  fifteenths  or 
other  subsidies,  collector  of  the  aid  for  the  knighting  of  the  king's  eldest  son 
on  the  marriage  of  his  eldest  daughter,  mayor,  sheriff,  constable,  bailiff  or 
other  officer  or  minister  of  the  king  ngainst  his  will.  By  K. 

Nov.  10.  Ghrant  for  life  to  the  king's  servant  John  Fereby,  esquii*e,  of  all  lands,  rents, 
Westminster,  reversions,  services  and  other  possessions  in  Beverley,  Molstof^e  and  else- 
where in  the  county  of  York  late  of  Bichard  Cokerell,  *  gentilman,'  and  in 
the  king's  hands  by  reason  of  an  act  in  Parliament  at  Westminster, 
4  November,  1  Edward  lY,  to  the  value  of  10/.,  and  all  issues  of  the  same 
from  4  March,  1  Edward  IV.  By  p.8. 

Oct.  12.  Licence,  for  33^.  4cf.  paid  in  the  hanaper^  for  Maurice  Denys,  esquire, 

Westminster,  and  Alice  his  wife  to  grant  the  manors  of  Alleweston  "dud  Erthecote  and 
the  hundreds  of  Langley  and  Alleweston,  co.  Gloucester,  held  in  chief,  to 
Humphrey  Poyntz  and  Thomas  Lymeryk ;  and  for  the  latter  to  re-grant 
the  same  to  the  said  Maurice  and  Alice  for  life,  with  remainder  to  the 
heirs  of  the  body  of  Maurice  and  final  remainder  to  his  right  heirs. 

Nov.  12.         Grant  for  life  to  John  Saynton  of  the  ofiice  of  clerk  of  the  statute  mer- 

Westminster,  chant,  with  the  custody  of  the  lesser  part  of  the  seal  of  the  office,  within  the 

city  of  Lincoln,  with  the  accustomed  fees.  By  p.s. 

Nov.  4.  Pardon  to  John  Noke  of  Colchestre,  co.  Essex,  '  osteller,'  of  his  outlawry 

Westminster,  in  London  for  not  appearing  before  the  justices  of  the  Bench  to  satisfy 
Thomas  Reede  of  London,  '  draper,'  of  46^.  which  he  recovered  against 
him  and  20«.  damages,  he  having  surrendered  to  the  Flete  prison  and 
satisfied  the  said  Thomas,  as  Robert  Danby,  chief  justice  of  the  Bench,  has 
certified. 

Oct.  26.  Licence  for  the  alienation  in  mortmain  by  Thomas  Moston,  Thomas 
Westminster.  Waldyene  and  John  Waldyene  to  the  prior  and  convent  of  Coventre  of  a 
messuage,  three  virgates  and  20  acres  of  land,  10  acres  of  meadow  and 
20  acres  of  pasture  in  Franketon^  held  of  John  Nevylle  of  Woresley, 
esquire,  worth  ZOs.  ^d,  yearly,  and  a  messuage  in  Coventry,  held  of  the  said 
prior  and  convent,  worth  10^.  yearly,  as  found  by  divers  inquisitions  by 
William  Stevens,  escheator  in  the  county  of  Warwick  and  the  county  of 
the  city  of  Coventry,  to  the  value  of  60*.  yearly,  in  part  satisfaction^  of  a 
licence  by  letters  patent  of  Edward  III«  For  7/.  paid  in  the  haniaper* 

Nov.  17.         Inspeximtu  and  confirmation  to  William,  the  abbot,  and  the  monks  of 
Westminster.  Hayles  of  a  charter  dated  at   Westminster,  20  June,  46  Henry  III., 
granting  to  them  divers  liberties.     [Charier  Roll^  46  Henry  Illy  f».  3.] 

For  1  mark  paid  in  the  hanaper. 

Nov.  25.         Greneral  pardon  to  Simon  Mountfort,  knight,  late  of  Kyngeshurst,  co. 
Westminster.  Warwick,  aliiu  late  of  Colahull,  co.  Warwick.  By  p.s. 

Mbmbranb  22. 

Nov.  4.  Exemption  for  life  of  Amanywe  Bertet,  citizen  and  draper  of  London, 

Westminster,  from  being  placed  on  assizes,  juries,  inquisitions  or  recognisances  and  irom 

LL  2 


632  CALENDAR  OP  PATENT  BOLLS. 


1466.  Membrane  22—  coni. 

being  made  assessor,  taxer  or  oollector  of  tenths,  fifteenths  or  other  sab- 
sidiesy  collector  of  the  aid  for  the  knighting  of  the  king's  eldest  son  or  the 
marriage  of  his  eldest  daughter,  major,  sheriff,  constable,  bailiff  or  other 
officer  or  minister  of  the  king  against  his  will.  Bj  p.s. 

Not.  11.  Grant  to  tho  king's  servant  Thomas  Palmer  of  the  county  of  Leicester, 
Westminster,  esquire,  for  his  good  service  to  the  king's  father  Bichard,  late  duke  of 
York,  and  the  king,  and  in  recompence  of  his  great  expense  thereby  to  the 
value  of  340/.  of  the  manor  of  Fretheby,  co.  Leicester,  in  the  king's  hands 
by  the  forfeiture  of  Thomas  Boos,  knight,  late  lord  Boos,  attainted  of  high 
treason  by  an  act  in  Parliament  at  Westminster,  4  November,  1  Edward  TV^ 
to  hold  to  himself  his  executors  and  assigns  for  twelve  years  from  4  March, 
1  Edward  IV.  By  p.s. 

Oct.  29.  Grant  to  Bichard  Neel,  who  on  12  August,  4  Edward  IV,  in  council  at 

Westminster.  Stamford  was  appointed  and  sworn  ouo  of  the  king's  Serjeants  at  law,  of 

30/.  arrears  for  his  office  from  the  issues  of  the  hanaper.  By  p.s. 

Nov.  6.  Qrant  for  life  to  the  king's  servant  John  Austyn  of  the  oftice  of  keeper 

Westzninster.  of  the  beds  and  armament  within  the  castle  of  Wynde&ore,  receiving  6if. 
daily  for  his  wages  and  3d.  daily  for  ii  groom  under  him  in  tho  same  office 
as  Giles  French  had  in  the  year  22  Bichard  II.  from  the  issues  of  the  king's 
lordships  or  manors  of  St.  Margaret,  Stretton,  and  Middelton  Brymmesfeld, 
CO.  Wilts,  in  lieu  of  another  grant  to  him  hj  letters  patent  dated  30  November, 
1  Edward  IV.  surrendered.  By  p.s. 

Vacated  by  surrender  and  cancelled^  so  far  as  the  said  sums  are  can- 
cemedy  because  the  king  granted  to  him  the  said  manor  of  St,  Margaret^ 
Strettonyfor  life  by  letters  patent  on  18  May^  9  Edward  IV, 

Nov.  17.  Grant  to  Humphrey  lord  Staffo'd  of  South wyke,  knight,  of  the  custody 
Westminster,  of  all  manors,  lands  and  reversions  Jate  of  John  Bratton  son  of  Simon 
Bratton,  tenant  in  chief,  in  the  counties  of  Somerset  and  Devon,  during  the 
minority  of  John  his  sou  and  heir  with  the  marriage  of  the  latter,  and  so 
from  heir  to  heir,  finding  a  competent  sustenance  for  the  heir  and 
supporting  all  charges.  By  p.8. 

Nov,  18.         Grant  to  Peter  Prevet  of  Corff,  *  marbeler',  bom  in  the  duchy  of  Nor- 
Westminster.  mandy,  of  letters  of  denization.        By  p.s.  and  for  \0s.  paid  in  the  hanaper. 

Nov.  20.         Inspeximus  and  confirmation  to  William,  the  abbot,  and  the  convent  of 
Westminster.  Stonleye  of  letters  patent  dated  22  October,  6  Edward  III.  granting  that 
they  shall  not  be  charged  with  sustenance  of  any  person. 

For  1  mark  paid  in  the  hanaper. 

Mbmbrans  21. 

Aug.  0.  Grant  for  life  to  the  king's  servant  Hugh  Moresby,  one  of  the  grooms  of 

Westminster,  the  king's  chamber,  of  the  office  of  the  constableship  of  the  king's  castle  of 

Tremynton  within  the  duchy  of  Cornwall,  with  the  accustomed  fees  from 

the  issues  of  the  duchy,  in  the  same   manner  as  John   Hemyngburgh, 

deceased,  had  the  office.  Bj  p.s. 

Sepi.  10.         Grant  to  Guy  Wolston,  king's  esquire,  one  of  the  ushers  of  the  king's 

Westminster,   chamber,  of  the  custody  of  all  lands  and  tenements  late  of  John  Cheyne 

late  of  Chesham  Boys,  co.  Buckingham,  gentleman,  deceased,  tenant  in 

chief,  during  the  minority  of  John  Cheyne  his  son  and  heir,  with  advowsons 

of  churches  and  the  marriage  of  the  heir,  and  so  from  heir  to  heir. 

By  p.8, 

Sept.  20.         Grant  for  life  to  the  king's  kinsman  John  Bourgchier,  lord  of  Bemeres, 

Windsor,      knight,  and  Humphrey  Bourgchier,  knight,  his  sou,  of  the  office  of  con- 

stabla  of  the  king's  castle  of  Wyndesore  and  the  eustody  of  all  forests, 

parks,  warrens  and  other  places  pertaining  to  the  same  from  22  June, 


6  EDWARD  IV.— Pabt  IT.  635 


1466.  Metnhrane  2l—cont, 

1  Edward  IV.  with  the  accustomed  fees  from  the  revenues  of  the  castle^ 
in  lieu  of  a  like  grant  of  the  same  to  the  said  John  by  letters  patent  of  that 
date,  surrendered.  By  p.s. 

Vacated  by  surrender  and  cancelled^  because  the.  king  granted  the  same 
for  life  to  the  said  John  and  Thomas  Bourgchier  his  son  by  other  letters 
patenty  SO  April,  12  Edward  IV. 

Sept.  24.         GenemI  pardon  to  John  Smyth  of  Tetis worth,  co.  Oxford,  *  yoman ' 

Westminstor.  alias  *  corser '  alias  *  liusbondman,'  of  all  offences  committed  by  him  before 

14  June  last.  By  K. 

Sept.  24.  Licence  for  the  king's  sister  Anne^  duchess  of  Exeter,  to  grant  the 
Westminster,  manors  of  Rachford,  Lye,  Pakelesham  and  Folnesse,  co.  Essex,  Ardyngton, 
CO.  Berks,  Barford  St.  Martin,  co.  Wilts,  and  Thorp watervyle,  Aldwynkle, 
Achirch,  Chelveston  and  Caldcote,  co.  Northampton,  with  all  other  lands, 
rents,  reversions  and  services  of  her  tenants  in  the  towns  and  manors 
aforesaid,  held  in  chief,  to  the  king's  kinsman  Thomas,  archbishop  of 
Canterbury,  Robert,  bishop  of  Bath  and  Wells,  John,  duke  of  Norfolk, 
John,  duke  of  Suffolk,  William,  earl  of  Arundel,  Henry,  earl  of  Essex, 
Richard,  earl  Ry  vers,  Antony  Widevill,  lord  of  Scales  and  Newselles,  John 
Say,  knight,  Thomas  Colt,  Thomas  Decoue  and  Robert  Isham,  esquires, 
and  their  heirs  and  assigns.  By  K. 

Grant  to  the  said  archbishop  and  others  and  their  heirs  and  assigns  of  all 
the  kingVestate  and  title  in  the  manora  of  Wodham  Ferrerez  and  other 
lands  in  the  same  town,  co.  Essex,  and  the  manors  of  Newebotell  and 
Brynton  and  the  advowson  of  th^  church  there  and  other  lands  in  the 
same  town,  co.  Northampton,  which  the  king  holds  in  the  title  and  posses- 
sion of  his  consort  Elizabeth,  queen  of  England,  with  advowsons,  knights' 
fees,  rents  and  semces.  By  K. 

Sept.  26.  Grant  to  William  Herbert,  king's  knight,  lord  Herbert,  and  the  heirs 
Westmijiffter.  male  of  his  body  of  a  third  part  of  the  castle  of  St.  Briavels  and  the 
houses  within  its  site,  a  third  part  of  the  prison  of  the  great  tower  there 
called  *'  le  dungen '  and  all  the  houses  within  the  castle,  the  park  or  pasture 
of  St.  Briavels  with  all  the  lands  and  tenements  sometime  of  John  Perpyn 
with  all  profit  for  coals  and  the  pasture  called  '  Walmore,'  all  pannage  and 
agistment  with  all  profit  from  fines  of  pigs  with  the  third  part  of  perquisites 
of  courts  there  and  a  third  part  of  waifs  and  stray s,  chattels  of  felons  and 
fugitives  within  the  forest  or  belonging  to  the  castle,  with  divers  lands, 
homages,  rents  and  services  in  the  towns  of  Staunton,  Brikenore,  Little 
Dene,  Newland,  Whomson,  Alvyngton,  Aywarton,  Lyeneye,  Newarm, 
Peryngton,  Etiowe,  Hogelowe,  Auerey,  Blythedon  and  Langhope  and 
elsewhere  in  the  county  of  Gloucester,  which  Richard  Wydevyle,  lord 
Ryvers,  and  Jaqueta,  duchess  of  Bedford,  his  wife  held  in  dower  and  have 
surrendered  to  the  king ;  and  grant  to  him  also  as  above  of  the  lordship 
and  manor  of  Haverford  West  and  all  lands  and  possessions  in  Anabill 
Pyll,  Steynton,  Copped  Bussh,  Thywode,  Lamburston,  Churchehill  and 
the  parish  of  Steynton  with  all  members  and  appurtenances  in  South 
Wales  with  knights'  fees,  rents,  services  and  advowsons  and  all  royal 
rights,  royalties,  escheats,  franchises,  liberties,  courts,  halmotes,  juris- 
dictions, leets,  views  of  frank-pledge,  cantreds,  commotes,  hundreds,  fairs, 
markets,  parks,  stews,  warrens  and  other  profits  pertaining  to  the  same, 
rendering  to  the  king  100  marks  yearly.  By  p.s. 

Grant  to  the  said  William  and  the  heirs  of  his  body  of  the  reversion 
of  the  manor  and  lordship  of  Kylpek,  co.  Hereford,  lately  granted  by 
letters  patent  to  William  Herbert,  esquire,  and  the  heirs  male  of  his 
body,  on  the  death  of  the  latter  should  he  die  without  such  heir,  with 
knights'  fees,  advowsons,  parks,  warrens,  courts  leet,  views  of  frank- 
pledge, liberties,  franchises  and  privileges.  By  p.8. 


634  CALENDAB  OF  PATENT  ROLLS. 


1466.  Membrane  20. 

May  19.  Grant  to  John,  the  prior,  and  the  convent  of  the  house  of  Holy  Trinity, 

Westminster.  York,  which  was  of  old  time  an  alien  priory  and  a  cell  of  the  abbey  of 
Marmostier,  for  which  reason  they  have  come  to  great  poverty,  that  they 
and  their  successors  ghall  henceforth  be  denizen  and  shall  hold  the  priory 
as  an  English  priory,  and  quit  of  the  yearly  impost  of  40«.  payable  at  the 
Exchequer  by  reason  of  the  ancient  impost  paid  to  the  chief  lord  of  Mer- 
mostier,  and  shall  have  all  the  liberties,  franchises,  immunities  and  privileges 
that  denizen  priors  of  the  same  order  have.  They  shall  have  free  election 
of  prior  at  each  voidance,  and  shall  be  quit  of  quota,  tax,  tallage,  aid  or 
subsidy  granted  by  the  clergy  of  the  realm  or  imposed  by  the  pope,  and  they 
and  their  men,  servants  and  tenants  shall  be  quit  of  assizes,  recognisances, 
inquisitions,  pleas  and  summons,  and  they  shall  have  all  such  libeities,  fran- 
chises, immunities  and  privileges  as  the  abbot  of  the  monastery  of  St.  Mary, 
York,  and  the  dean  and  chapter  of  the  cathedral  church  of  St.  Peter,  York, 
have  within  the  said  city.  Grant  to  them  in  frank  almoin  of  a  toft  and 
8  acres  of  land  iu  Conyngesthorp  which  came  into  the  hands  of  Edward  IIL 
because  it  was  found  by  an  inquisition  taken  on  20  October,  33  Edward 
III,  at  York  before  William  de  NefTeld,  then  escheator  in  the  county,  that 
the  prior  of  Holy  Trinity,  York,  who  held  the  town  of  Conyngesthorp  in 
chief,  alienated  a  toft  and  8  acres  of  land  in  Conyngesthorp,  then  worth 
*l8,  6d,  yearly,  to  the  parson  of  the  church  of  Barton  in  the  time  of  Edward 
II.  without  licence,  though  the  said  town  was  never  held  in  chief,  and 
grant  to  them  of  the  farm  pertaining  to  the  king  at  the  Exchequer  for  the 
said  toft  and  land.  And  grant  to  them  in  frank  almoin  of  the  hospital  of 
St.  Nicholas  by  Scardeburgb,  co.  York,  and  the  custody  of  the  hospital 
with  all  its  possessions.  By  p.s. 

March  13.        General  pardon  to  John  Moklowe  or  Muklowe  late  of  the  town  of  West- 
Westminster,  minster,  co.  Middlesex,  *  yoman,'  of  all  offences  committed  by  him  before 
24  February  last.  By  p.s. 

June  5.  Signification  to  G.  archbishop  of  York  of  the  royal  assent  to  the  election 

Penley.       of  John  Sharrowe,  monk  of  the  monastery  of  St.  German,  Selby,  as  abbot 

of  that  place.  By  p.s. 

Oct.  13.  Grant  to  Bichard  Fenys,  knight,   and  Joan  his  wife,  kinswoman  and 

Westminster,  heiress  of  Thomas  Dacre,  knight,  deceased,  viz.  daughter  of  Thomas  his 
sou,  and  the  heirs  of  her  body,  of  the  manors  of  Irthington,  Dacre,  Eirkeos- 
walde,  Blakhall,  Farlam,  Brakanwayte,  Lasyngby,  Brampton,  Burgh  on 
Sands,  Ayketon,  Bouclyff  and  Glossenby,  300  aci*es  of  land,  2000  a($res  of 
pasture,  40  acres  of  wood  and  40^.  rent  in  Newbyggyng,  Mosdale,  Staffull 
and  Glassonby  and  a  moiety  of  the  manor  of  Castell  Kaiyot,  co.  Cumber- 
land, the  manors  of  Barton  and  Hotf,  co.  Westmoreland,  Holbeche,  co. 
Lincoln,  and  Halton,  Fysswyke,  Kelette  and  Eccleston,  co.  Lancaster,  and 
all  other  lordships,  lands,  advowsons,  knights'  fees,  corrodies  and  possessions 
late  of  the  said  Thomas  Dacre,  knight,  and  in  the  king's  hands  by  reason 
of  an  act  of  Parliament  at  Westminster,  4  November,  1  Edward  IV.  with 
remainder  to  the  king  to  hold  of  the  chief  lords  of  the  fees.  By  p.s. 

June  6.  Mandate  to  the  escheator  iu  the  county  of  Derby  for  the  restitution  of 

Westminster,  the  temporalities  of  the  abbey  of  St.  Mary,  Rooestre,  to  Robert  Tvvys, 

canon  of  the  house,  whose  election   as  abbot  J.  bishop  of  Coventry  and 

Lichfield  has  confirmed  and  whose  fealty  the  king  has  ordered  to  be  taken 

by  the  said  bishop.    . 

The  like  to  the  escheators  in  the  following  counties : — 
Stafford. 
Northampton. 
Writ  de  intendendo  in  pursuance  to  the  tenants. 

July  9.  Mandate  to  the  escheator  in  the  county  of  York  for  the  restitution  of  the 

Westminster,  temporalities  of  the  abbey  of  St.  German,  Selby,  to  John  Sharow,  monk  of 


6  EDWARD  IV.— Pabt  II.  586 


1466«  Membrane  20 — cont 

the  house,  whose  election  as  abbot  Greorge,  archbishop  of  York,  has  con- 
firmed, and  whose  fealty  the  king  has  ordered  to  be  taken  by  Richard 
Andrew,  dean  of  the  cathedral  church  of  York.  By  K, 

The  like  to  the  escheators  in  the  following  counties  ;— 
Lincoln. 
Northampton* 
Leicester. 
The  like  to  the  mayor  of  York. 
Writ  de  intendendo  in  pursuance  to  the  tenants. 

Membrane  19. 

Nov.  3.  Grant  to  Geoffrey  Gate,-  knight,  and  the  heirs  male  of  his  body  of  the 

Westminster,  manor  of  Dangehall,  the  advowson  of  the  parish  church  of  Dange,  100 
acres  of  land,  40  acres  of  meadow,  500  acres  of  pasture,  300  acres  of  marsh 
and  iOOs.  rent  in  Dange,  Dansey  and  Bradwell,  co.  £ssex,  a  dairy  cdias 
*  a  wyk '  called  Dangebrigge  and  lands  called  Estlandes  and  all  the  rent  of 
assize  in  Dansey,  co.  Essex,  30  acres  of  land  called  Bunges  and  two  marshes 
in  Biadwell,  lately  held  by  Richard,  earl  Ryvers,  and  Jaquetta  his  wife, 
duchess  of  Bedford,  with  all  libertTcs,  franchises,  jurisdictions,  courts  leet, 
viewy  of  frank-pledge,  commodities,  profits,  fairs,  markets,  free  folds,  wreck 
of  sea,  free  customs  and  other  rights,  to  hold  the  same  by  the  services  of  as 
many  knights'  fees  and  as  many  other  rents  and  services  as  they  were  held 
by  before  4  March,  1  Edward  IV.  By  p.s. 

Nov.  6.  Pardon  to  Thomas  Knell  of  his  outlawry  in  the  county  of  Kent  for  not 

Westtninstcr.  appearing  before  the  king  to  satisfy  him  for  his  ransom  for  not  pm'suing 
his  appeal  against  Thomas  Honyngton  late  of  Litelhorsted,  co.  Sussex, 
^  gentilman,'  for  the  death  of  John  Knell  his  brother  as  he  began  before 
the  late  king,  he  having  surrendered  to  the  Marshalsea  prison,  as  John 
Markham,  knight,  chief  justice  of  the  King's  Bench,  has  certified. 

Nov.  10.  Grant  to  Antony  Wydevile,  knight,  lord  of  Scales  and  Nusels,  and  the 
Westminster,  heirs  male  of  his  body  of  the  Isle  of  Wyght,  the  castle  and  lordship  of 
Carisbroke  within  the  island,  all  castles,  manors,  lordships,  lands,  rents, 
reversions,  services,  meadows,  pastures,  mills,  forests,  chaces,  warrens, 
parks  and  fisheries  of  the  king  within  the  island  and  the  advowson  of  the 
church  of  Fresshewatre  in  the  same  island,  to  hold  with  knights'  fees, 
advowsons,  wards,  marriages,  reliefs,  escheats,  liberties,  franchises,  courts 
leet,  views  of  frank-pledge  and  other  profits  by  fealty  only,  in  lieu  of  a 
grant  to  Geofirey  Gate,  knight,  by  letters  patent  dated  13  March, 
5  Edward  IV.  surrendered ;  and  grant  also  to  him  and  his  said  heirs  of 
wreck  of  sea,  moltures,  chattels  of  felons,  fugitives  and  outlaws  and  persons 
attainted  of  felony,  waifs,  forfeited  gooods,  issues,  fines  and  amercements, 
and  return  of  writs  and  executions  within  the  said  island.  By  p.s« 

Nov.  11,  Whereas  by  verdict  of  24  jurors  in  a  suit  before  the  king  at  Westminster 
Westminster,  by  writ  of  attaint  between  Henry  Grey  of  Kateryngham,  'gentilman,' 
complainant,  and  Robert  Martyn  and  Nicholas  Bisshop,  William  HoUe, 
John  Stalon,  Walter  Borell,  John  Sayer,  John  Goldeemythe,  Bobert 
Fuller,  Thomas  Goslyn,  Robert  Pyrle,  Roger  Denys,  Robert  Richemond 
and  James  Carter,  jurors  of  an  inquisition  lately  taken  before  the  king 
at  Westminster  by  bill  between  the  said  Robert  Martyn,  then  complainant, 
and  the  said  Henry  Grey  touching  a  trespass,  it  was  found  that  the  said 
12  jurors  made  false  oath  and  judgment  was  given  against  them  and  the 
said  Robert  Martyn ;  the  king  hereby  grants  to  the  said  Henry  all  the 
goods  of  the  said  Walter  Borell,  John  Goldsmyth,  Robert  Fuller,  Thomas 
Goslyn,  William  Holle  and  Roger  Denys,  forfeited  by  reason  of  the  said 
judgment,  and  all  fines,  waste  and  strip.  By  p.s. 


686  CALENDAR  OF  PATENT  ROLLS, 


1466.  Membrane  19 — cont. 

Nov.  15.  Pardon  to  Robert  Brooke  of  Melton  by  Gravesende,  co.  Kent,  *  yoraan/ 
Westminster,  alias  late  of  Gravesende,  *08teler,'  deputy  at  Gravesende  of  William 
Baldrl,  searcher  in  the  port  of  London,  and  of  John  Seelton,  surveyor  of 
the  scrutiny  in  the  said  port,  and  of  Richard  Symson,  controller  of  the 
scrutiny  in  the  said  port,  of  all  offences  committed  by  him  before  Ail  Saints 
last  against  the  statute  in  Parliament  at  Westminster,  20  Henry  YI.  con- 
cerning customers  and  others,  and  all  consequent  penalties  and  forfeitures 
due  to  the  king.  By  p.s. 

Nov.  10.         Grant  to  John  Hopton,  king's  clerk,  of  the  custody  of  the  hospital  of 
WestminBtep.  the  Holy  Trinity  called  *  le  Measondieu '  within  the  town  of  Donwyche,  co. 
Suffolk. 

Nov.  24.         Pardon  to  Matilda  Bowes  executrix  of  the  will  of  William  Bowee, 

Westminster,  kniglit,  her  late  husband,  late  sheriff  of  Northumberland,  and  William 

Bowes  bis  son  and  heir  of  all  debts,  accounts  and  arrears  due  to  the  king 

by  reason  of  the  said  office.  By  p.s. 

Nov.  25«         General  pardon  to  Richard  Mortymer  late  of  London,  ^  grocer,'  alias 

Westminster,  of  the  town  of  Westminster,  co.  Middlesex,  of  all  offences  committed  by  him 

before  20  November  last.  By  p.s. 


Mbmbranb  18. 

Nov.  25.  Pardon  to  Edmund  Coventre  of  Wamburgh,  co.  Wilts,  *  yoman,*  of  his 
Westminster,  outlawry  in  the  county  of  Wilts  for  not  appearing  before  the  king  to  satisfy 
him  of  his  ransom  for  certain  trespasses  and  contempts  against  him  and 
Edmund  Hungerford,  knight,  he  having  surrendered  to  the  Marshalsea 
prison,  as  John  Markham,  knight,  chief  justice  of  the  King''s  Bench,  has 
certified. 

Nov.  20.  General  pardon  to  John  Maychell  late  of  Crakenthorpe>  co.  Westmore- 

Westminster.  land,  the   elder,  '  gentilman,'   for   harbouring  Henry  VI.   and  all   other 

offences  committed  by  him.     [_Foeclera.^  "By  p.s. 

Nov.  24.  Pardon  to  Thomas  Coleton  late  of  Whitchurche,  co.  Devon,  *  husbond- 

Westminster.   man,'  for  all  felonies,  murders,  trespasses  and  offences  committed  by  him 

before  9  November  last.  By  p.8. 

Nov.  27.         Pardon  to  John  Sydenham  the  elder,  late  sheriff  of  Somerset,  of  the 

Westminster,   escape  of  John  Dyrido  of  Compton  Pauncefote,  co.  Somerset,  *boucher,' 

who  was  charged  with  certain  felonies  before  Richard  Chok,  knight,  and 

his  fellows,  justices  of  oyer  and  terminer  in  the  said  county,  at  Briggewater 

and  pleaded  guilty  and  was  committed  to  prison  to  his  custody.         By  p.s. 

Nov.  27.  Grant  to  the  mayor  and  commonalty  of  the  town  of  Plymmouth,  co. 
Westminster.  Devon,  that  as  the  said  town  and  Stonehous,  Crymell  Passage,  Worston 
Passage,  Yalam  and  other  pUces  to  Ramhede  on  the  west  and  Gorneworth 
on  the  east  lie  open  to  the  sea  to  the  king's  enemies  and  these  and  pirates 
have  come  thither  and  burnt  a  great  part  of  the  town  and  spoiled  the 
inhabitants,  killing  some  and  taking  others  prisoners,  and  have  carried  off 
chalices,  jewels  and  other  ornaments  of  the  church,  they  may  sue  before 
the  pope  for  apostolic  bulls  for  the  excommunication  of  any  such  pirates 
who  may  attempt  the  like,  which  will  give  them  great  security.  By  p.s. 

Nov.  25.  Grant  in  frank  almoin  to  John  Denyngton,  the  abbot,  and  the  convent  of 
Westminster,  the  monastery  of  St.  Mary  and  St.  Rumonus,  Tavystok,  of  the  reversion  of 
the  alien  priory  of  Modbury,  co.  Devon,  with  the  advowson  of  the  vicarage 
of  Modbury  and  knights'  fees,  advowsons  and  other  commodities  on  the 
death  of  William  Beuselyn,  monk  and  priest,  to  whom  the  same  was 
granted  for  life  by  letters  patent  dated  29  May,  1  Edward  lY.  By  p.s. 


6  EDWARD  IV.-tART  II.  537 


]^466  Membrane  18 — cont. 

Dei\  1.  Grant  for  life  to  John  Boston,  servant  of  the  king's  brother  George,  duke 

Westmingter.  of  Clarence,  of  the  office  of  ranger  in  the  king's  forest  of  Melchuyt,  co. 
Wilts,  and  such  fees  and  wages  as  were  allowed  for  the  wages  of  Richard 
de  Knotty ngle,  ranger  in  the  time  of  Edward  III.,  from  the  rent  of 
serjeanty  which  the  sheriff  of  the  county  is  bound  to  render  yearly  at  the 
Exchequer.  By  p.s. 

Nov.  28.         General  pardon  to  John  Rote  of  Ck)ventry,  chaplain.  X^y  p..«. 

Westminster. 

Membrane  17. 

July  26.  Inspeximm  and  confirmation  to  Henry  Waver,  knight,  the  master,  and 
Westminster.  Thomas  Eyre,  Thomas  Salle,  John  Brokford  and  William  White,  the 
wardens  of  the  gild  or  fraternity  of  the  mistery  of  drapers  in  the  city  of 
London  of  letters  patent  dated  30  November,  17  Henry  VI.  granting 
licence  for  the  foundation  of  the  said  gild ;  and  grant  to  them  of  licence  for 
the  acquisition  in  mortmain  of  lands,  rents  and  other  possessions  to  the 
value  of  20/.  yearly  for  the  sustenance  of  two  chaplains  to  celebrate  divine 
service  for  the  good  estate  of  the  king  and  his  consort  Elizabeth,  queen  of 
England,  and  the  brethren  and  sisters  of  the  gild  and  for  their  souls 
afler  death,  and  the  souls  of  the  king's  father  Richard,  late  duke  of  York, 
his  brother  Edmund,  late  earl  of  Rutland,  and  his  kinsman  Richard,  late 
earl  of  Salisbury,  and  Thomas  Neville,  knight^  son  of  the  latter,  and  the 
support  of  other  charges  of  the  gild.  [Herbert's  History  of  the  Livery 
Companies^  vol,  ii.  p,  482.]  By  K. 

Oct.  28.  General  pardon  to  William  Jakson  late  of  the  town  of  Westminster,  co. 

Westminster.  Middlesex,  *  bocher '  a/to*  *  soudyour.'  •  By  p.s. 

Oct  11.  The  like  to  Thomas  Baron  of  Bodman,  co.  Cornwall.  By  p.s. 

Westminster. 

July  3.  Pardon  to  Richard  Stapler  late  of  Dorkyng,  co.  Surrey,  *  husbondman,' 

Westminster,  of  his  outlawry  in  the  county  of  Surrey  for  not  appearing  before  John 
Prysot  and  his  fellows,  justices  of  the  Bench  of  the  late  king,  to  satisfy 
Richard  Jay  of  8/.  8jr.  !</.,  which  he  recovered  against  him,  and  13*.  4c/. 
damoges.  he  having  surrendered  to  the  Flete  prison  and  satisfied  the 
said  Richard  Jay,  as  Robert  Danby,  knight,  chief  justice  of  the  Bench,  has 
certified. 

Aug.  30.  Grant  to  the  king's  servant  Edward  Grey,  knight,  and  his  heirs  male  of 
Westminster,  the  manor  of  Loxton,  co.  Somerset,  with  the  advowson  [of  the  church]  of 
the  same  and  all  appurtenances,  not  exceeding  the  value  of  16/.,  in  the 
king's  hands  by  force  of  an  act  against  Nicholas  Latemer,  knight,  in 
Parliament  at  Westminster,  4  November,  1  Edward  lY.  to  hold  the  tame 
by  the  services  of  as  many  knights'  fees  and  as  many  other  rents  and 
services  as  they  wero  held  by  before  4  March,  1  Edward  IV.  By  p.s. 

Nov.  23,         General  pardon  to  Richard  Exton  of  Cicestre,  co.  Sussex,  *  yoman.' 
Westminster.  By  p.s. 

Nov.  29.         Pardon  to  Thomas  Rokes,  esquire,  late  cscheator  in  the  counties  of 

Westminster.  Bedford  and  Buckingham,  of  all  debts,  accounts  and  arrears  due  from  him 

to  the  king  by  reason  of  his  office.  By  p.s. 


Membrane  16. 

Nov.  17.         Inspeximus  and  confirmation  to  the  burgesses  of  Wilton  of  letters  patent 

Westminster,  dated  1  July,  11  Henry  VI.  inspecting  and  confirming  letters  patent  dated 

1 1  November,  1  Henry  Y.  inspecting  and  confirming  letters  patent  dated 


638  CALENDAB  OP  PATENT  ROLLS. 


1466,  Membrane  16 — cant. 

20  May,  1  Henry  IV.  inspecting  and  confirming  a  charter  dated  at  West* 
minster,  28  November,  5  Richard  II.  [Charter  Roily  5  and  6  Richard  IL 
No.  23,]  inspecting  and  confirmin<i^  a  charter  dated  at  Salisbury,  18  October, 
2  Edward  III.  [Charter  Roll,  2  Edward  II L  No.  32,]  inspecting  and 
confirming  a  charter  dated  at  Westminster,  14  February,  13  Henry  III. 

For  1  mark  paid  in  the  hanaper. 

Nov.  20.  Pardon,  for  60  marks  paid  in  the  hanaper,  of  the  trespasses  in  the 
Westminster,  acquisition  without  licence  of  the  manors  of  Bnttorcram  and  Skreyngham 
with  their  members,  co.  York,  and  the  manor  of  Beseby  with  the  soke  and 
other  appurtenances^  co.  Lincoln,  held  in  chief,  by  George,  archbishop  of 
York,  then  bishop  of  Exeter,  John,  earl  of  Worcester,  John  lord  Lescrope 
of  Bolton,  Thomas  Lumbley,  knight,  lord  Lumbley,  Thomas  Cobham, 
knight,  Robert  Dan  by,  knight,  chief  justice  of  the  Common  Bench,  James 
Strang wasshe,  knight,  Christopher  Conyers,  knight,  Robeit  Claxton, 
knight,  William  Lambert,  clerk,  Guy  Fayrefax,  John  Catecik  and  John 
Hewyk  and  William  Gaynesford,  now  deceased,  from  Ralph,  earl  of  West- 
moreland, and  afterwards  from  the  said  archbishop  and  others  by  the  said 
earl  of  Westmoreland  and  Margaret  his  wife  to  themselves  and  the  heirs 
of  their  bodies ;  and  grant  that  the  latter  may  hold  the  same  thus  by  tho 
accustomed  services. 

Nov.  22.  Licence  for  George,  archbishop  of  York  and  chancellor,  Ralph  Boteler, 
Wcstmiuster.  knight,  Maurice  Geffrey,  clerk,  Richard  Quatermayns,  esquire,  Thomas 
Stonour,  esquire,  Richard  Foweler  and  William  Newenham,  esquii'e,  to 
enfeoff  Guy  Fairfax,  serjeant  at  law,  John  Catesby,  serjeant  at  law, 
Richard  Pygot,  serjeant  at  law,  Henry  Sotehill,  John  Estbury,  esquire, 
and  Robert  Strangboue  of  their  manor  of  Walkerne,  co.  Hertford,  held  in 
chief,  for  the  life  of  Thomas  Proute,  esquire. 

Nov.  20.  Grant  for  life  to  Nicholas  Wydower,  in  lieu  of  a  like  gi'ant  to  him  by 
Westminster,  letters  patent  dated  13  December,  1  Edward  IV.  surrendered,  of  the  office 
of  surveyor  of  the  king's  bowmakers  within  the  Tower  of  Loudon,  the 
office  of  keeper  of  the  king's  bows  within  the  Tower  and  the  office  of 
keeping,  making  and  providing  tho  king's  bows  in  the  said  Tower,  the 
town  of  Calais,  the  land  of  Ireland  and  elsewhere  and  cords  for  them, 
receiving  Qd.  daily  from  the  issues  of  the  counties  of  Surrey  and  Sussex  as 
granted  to  Robert  Bridford,  late  holder  of  the  office,  by  letters  patent  dated 
26  March,  22  Richard  II.  and  a  mansion  within  the  Tower  between  the 
tower  called  Wakefeld  and  the  tower  called  Westamythfeld,  with  a  livery 
of  the  suit  of  yeomen  of  the  chamber  yearly  at  Christmas  at  the  great 
wardrobe,  with  arrears  of  wages  from  4  March,  1  Edward  IV.  By  p.s. 
Vacated  by  surrender  and  cancelled  by  L.  buhop  of  Durham,  the 
chancellory  on  8  February,  13  Edward  IV.  The  king  granted  the  office  to 
Thomas  Marsburgh  by  other  letters  patent  on  that  date, 

Nov.  26.        JVLindate  to  all  to  permit  John  Piompton  alias  John  son  of  Donald 
WestmiDster.   Makaghhem,  born  in  the  town  of  Incelaraghlyn  in  Scotland,  dwelling  at 
Canterbury,  who  has  taken  an  oath  of  fealty,  to  inhabit  tho  realm  peacetully 
and  enjoy  his  goods. 

Membrane  15. 

Oct.  20.  Inspcximus  and  confirmation  to  John,  the  abbot,  and  tho  prior  and 

Westminster,  convent  of  Seleby  of  letters  patent  dated  16  July,  14  Edward  III.  being  a 
a  grant  to  the  prior  and  convent  of  the  custody  of  the  abbey  during 
voidance,  rendering  to  the  king  80/.  for  every  such  voidance. 

For  \  mark  paid  in  the  hanaper. 

Nov.  20.         Exemplification  of  the  tenor  of  the  enrolment  of  letters  patent  dated  15 
Wesiminster.   July,  6  Edward  IV.  {see  p.  623),  being  a  grant  to  Thomas  Herbert  the 


6  EDWABD  IV.— Part  IL  639 


1466.  Membrane  15 — cont. 

elder  and  Thomas  Saintleger,  esquires  of  the  body.  These  letters  have 
been  casually  lost,  as  Thomas  Blakhed  has  taken  oath  in  Ohaocery,  and  will 
be  surrendered  if  found. 
Nov.  16,  Grant  to  William,  bishop  of  Winchester,  for  the  removal  of  the  ambimity 
Westminster,  of  the  terms  of  liberties  granted  to  the  bishop  and  the  prior  and  monks  of 
St.  Swithnn,  Winchester,  concerning  the  escapes  of  felons,  and  because 
divers  persons  convicted  and  attainted  of  felony  have  been  committed  to  his 
custody,  that  he  and  his  successors  shall  be  quit  of  all  escapes  of  all  such 
persons  committed  to  his  custody  as  ordinary  of  the  place  according  to  the 
custom  of  the  realm  and  all  consequent  suitN  and  penalties,  provided  that 
this  grant  shall  not  extend  to  escapes  ccunived  at  by  them.  By  p.s. 

Nov.  20.        Inspeximus  and  confirmation  to  the  burgesses  of  Eremue  of  letters  patent, 

WestmiDster.  dated  1  April,  8  Edward  III.  confirming  a  grant  to  them  by  Baldwin  de 

Bedvers,  For  ^  mark  paid  in  the  hanaper. 

Membrane  14. 

Nov.  20.        Exemplification  of  the  tenor  of   the  enrolment  of  letters  patent  dated 
Westminster.  6  September,  1  Edward  IV.  {see  p.  63),  being  a  grant  to  Thomas  Garnet, 
esquire.    These  letters  have  been  lost  by  accident,  as  he  has  taken  oath  in 
Chaucery,  and  will  be  surrendered  if  found. 

Nov.  5.  Pardon  to  Joan  Marsshall  late  of  Kirtelyngton,  co.  Nottingham,  *  gentil- 

Westmineter.  woman,'  of  all  felonies,  murders,  trespasses  and  offences  committed  by  her. 

ByK 

Sept.  10.         hispeximm  and  confirmation  to  the  abbess  and   convent  of  St.  Mary, 
Westminster.  Winchester,  of  letters  patent  dated  5  December,  2  Henry  V.   inspecting 
ond  confirming  letters  patent  dated  18  June,  45  Edward  III.  inspecting 
and  confirming  a  charter  dated  at  Woodstock,  14  March,  18  Henry  III, 

For  1  mark  paid  in  the  hanaper. 

Dec.  16.  (irant  for  life  to  the  king's  esquire  Richard  Whetehill  of  40/.  yearly  from 
Westminster.  Michaelmas,  4  Edward  IV.  from  the  kind's  customs  of  Sd.  from  each  sack 
of  wool  and  wool-fells  at  their  exit  from  the  town  of  Calais  at  the  hands  of 
the  customer  there  or  the  treasurer  of  Calais,  in  lieu  of  a  like  grant  to  him 
by  letters  patent  dated  17  December,  1  Edward  IV.  surrendered  because 
invalid.  By  p.s. 

Nov.  26.        Grant  for  life  to  the  king's  eSquire  Maurice  Arnold,  Serjeant  porter  of 

Westminster,  the  housebold,  of  20/.  yearly  from  Michaelmas  last,  viz.  10/.  from  the  issues 

of  the  county  of   Hereford,    100*.  from    the    issues  of  the   county   of 

Gloucester,  and  100s  from  the  issues  of  the  county  of  Worcester.     By  p.s. 

1467. 

Feb.  18.  Grant  to  Thomas  Chaundeler,  parson  of  the  parish  church  of  Menestoke, 

Westminster,  in  the  diocese  of  Winchester,  of  a  canonry  in  the  king's  free  chapel  of  St. 

Stephen  within  the  palace  of  Westminster  and  a  prebend  in  that  chapel 

which  Koger  Mersshe,  chaplain,  ktcly  had,  on  an  exchange  of  benefices 

with  Gilbert  Haydok.  By  K. 

Feb.  12.  Licence  for  the  alienation  in  mortmain  by  Symon  Norwyche,  esquire,  to 
Westminster.  Thomas  Buxhale,  the  master,  and  the  fellows  of  the  college  of  St.  Mary 
and  All  Saints,  Fodringhey,  co.  Northampton,  of  a  toft  and  85  acres,  3  roods 
and  9^  perches  of  land  and  pasture  by  the  forest  perch  from  the  wastes  in 
the  king's  forest  of  Rokyngham  in  a  place  called '  le  Southside  of  Totenbowe ' 
extending  from  a  way  called  *  Horsweye '  on  the  east  to  Totenbowe  Hatche 
on  the  west  and  from  Benefeldriddyng  on  the  north  to  Careyilestebbing  on 
the  south,  held  in  chief.  By  K.  and  for  10  marks  paid  in  the  hanaper. 

Feb.  17.         Notification  that  whereas  it  was  understood  that  Joan  the  wife  of  Henry 

Westminster.   Bodrugan,  esquire,  late  the  wife  of  William  Beaumont,  esquire,  had  issue 

one  John  the  Uwful  son  of  the  said  William,  it  has  been  proved  that  the 


640  CALENDAR  OF  PATENT  ROLLS. 


14&Im  Membrane  14 — cent. 

said  John  is  a  bastard,  and  that  Philip  Beaumont,  esquire,  is  the  brother 
and  next  heir  of  the  said  William.  Bj  p.s. 

Jan.  29.  Grant  for  life  to  the  king's  esquire  WilJiam  Wade,  for  his  good  service  at 

Westminster,  sea  and  at  the  town  of  Newcastle  on  Tyne  in  defence  of  the  town,  in  lieu  of 
a  like  grant  to  him  by  letters  patent  dated  8  December,  4  Edward  IV. 
suiTendered,  of  the  manor  of  Polstede  Halle  with  appurtenances  in  Bum- 
ham,  CO.  Norfolk,  with  Uie  advowsons  pertaining  to  it  and  3  acres  of  land 
in  Burneham  in  a  field  called  '  Wescote '  and  all  issues  from  the  said 
8  December,  without  renderinc^  anything  except  10  marks  yearly  to  the 
king's  servitors  John  Grey  and  David  Chambley  for  their  lives.  By  p.s. 

1455  Membrane  13. 

Nov.  21.  Grant  for  life  to  the  kings's  kinsman  Richard,  earl  of  Warwick  and 
Westmioster.  Salisbury,  from  4  March,  1  Edward  IV.  of  the  custody  of  all  the  king's 
forests  beyond  Trent,  with  appointment  of  him  as  justice  of  the  said  forests 
and  justice  in  eyre  of  the  same ;  and  grunt  to  him  ?s  above  for  his  fees  of 
]  00  marks  yearly,  viz.  100*.  from  the  prior  and  convent  of  St.  Mary's, 
Carlisle,  which  they  are  bound  to  render  from  the  farm  of  55  acres  of  land 
in  the  land  of  Ellereton,  106*.  %d,  at  the  hands  of  Richard  Kirkebride  and 
his  heirs  and  assigns  which  they  are  bound  to  render  for  the  farm  of  the 
land  of  Brathwait  with  the  covert  of  Midelscogh,  the  land  of  Plompton  with 
its  issues  and  profits  in  the  county  of  Cumberland  to  the  value  of  22/. 
yearly,  the  closes  of  Itonfeld  and  Barokfeld  with  Brumgill  within  the  forest 
of  Inglewood,  co.  Cumberland,  to  the  value  of  100*.  yearly,  certain  enclosures 
called  Morton,  Heskes,  WoUaykes  alias  Wallaykes,  Nunclas  and  Blaberith- 
wayte  with  herbages  and  profits  within  the  said  forests  in  the  said  county 
to  the  yearly  value  of  15/.  C*.  8(/.,and  14/.  from  the  other  issues  and  profits 
from  the  said  forests.  By  K. 

Nov.  22.  Licence  for  the  alienation  in  mortmain  by  William  Canynges,  merchant 

Westminster,  of  Bristol,  to  Peter  Laweles,  chaplain  of  the  perpetual  chantry  founded  by 
him,  in  accordance  with  the  licence  by  letters  patent  dated  10  May  last, 
of  a  yearly  rent  of  10/.  from  13  messuages  belonging  to  the  said  William  in 
Bristol,  not  held  in  chief,  as  appears  by  an  inquisition  taken  before  William 
Spencer,  mayor  of  Bristol  and  escheator  within  the  town  and  county  of 
Bristol,  in  full  satisfaction  of  the  aforesaid  licence. 

1467. 

Jan.  24.         Pardon  to  Thomas  Wyld  of  London,  *  sherman,'  of  his  outlawry  in  the 
Westminster,   county  of  Middlesex  for  not  appearing  before  the  king  to  satisfy  him  for 
certain  trespasses,  he  having  surrendered  to  the  Marshalsea  prison,  as  John 
Markhnm,  knight,  chief  justice  of  the  King's  Bench,  has  certified. 

Jan.  28.  Grant  to  John  Corff,  Nicholas  Abbot,  John  Vyke,  Henry  Abbot,  Bichard 

Westminster.  Snellyng,  Nicholas  Brice,  Nicholas  Plete  and  the  other  tenants  of  the  to^ii 
and  port  of  Weymouth,  co.  Dorset,  of  100/.  from  the  customs  and  subsidies 
in  the  ports  of  Pole,  Melcombe,  and  Weymouth,  at  the  hands  of  John 
Wyke  and  Richard  Haynes,  late  collectors,  or  other  past  or  present 
coUectors  of  the  same,  in  lieu  of  a  like  grant  by  letters  patent  dated 
16  December,  1  Edward  IV.  surrendered  because  insufiBicient.  By  p.s. 

Jan.  27.  Grant  for  life  to  the  king's  kinsman  William,  lord  Hasty nges,  the  king^s 

Westminster,  chamberlain,  of  the  office  of  steward  of  the  king's  lordships  of  Haliwell, 

CO.  Lincoln,  and  Stretton,  co.  Rutland,  with  a  fee  of  40«.  yearly  from  the 

issues  of  the  lordships  and  all  other  accustomed  profits.  By  p.s. 

Jan.  29.  Grant  for  life  to  the  king's  esquire  William  Wade,  for  his  good  service  at 

Westminster,  sea  and  at  the  town  of  Newcastle-on-Tyne  in  defence  of  the  town,  in  lieu 

of  a  like  grant  to  him  by  letters  patent  dated  8  December,  4  Edward  IV. 


6  EDWARD  IV.— Pabt  IL  541 


1^467.  Membrane  13 — cont, 

surrendered,  of  the  manor  of  Polstede  Halle  with  appurtenances  in  Bumham, 
00.  Norfolk,  with  the  advowsons  pertaiuing  to  it  and  three  acres  of  land  in 
Bumham  in  a  field  called  Wescote  and  all  issues  from  the  said  8  December, 
without  rendering  anything  except  10  marks  yearly  to  the  king's  servitors 
John  Grey  and  David  Chambley  for  their  lives.  By  p.s. 

Vacated  because  elsewhere  below. 


X466.  Membrane  12. 

Dec.  10.  Grant  to  John,  lord  of  Duddeley,  knight,  and  the  heirs  male  of  his  body 

We&tminster.  of  the  reversion  of  the  manor  or  lordship  of  Bordesley,  co.  Warwick,  and 
two  closes  containing  200  acres  of  land  in  the  same  called  '  le  Heybernes ' 
alias  *  Mikell  Hey '  and  *  Li  tell  Hey '  with  knights'  fees,  advowsons,  wards:, 
marriages,  reliefs,  escheats,  courts  leet,  views  of  frank-pledge,  warrens, 
waters,  fisheries,  and  all  other  profits  on  the  death  of  Thomas  Erdyngton, 
knight,  and  Jocosa  his  wife,  to  whom  the  same  were  granted  for  life  by 
letters  patent  dated  8  November,  4  Edward  IV.  or  so  soon  as  the  same 
shall  come  into  the  king's  hands  by  surrender  of  the  said  letters,  to  hold 
the  same  by  the  services  of  as  many  knights  fees  and  as  many  other  rents 
and  services  as  they  were  held  by  before  4  March,  1  Edward  IV.       By  p.s. 

Dec.  13.  Grant  to  James  Haryngton  of  Brerely,  co.  York,  knight,  of  340/.   from 

Westminster,  the  issues  of  the  county  of  York.  By  K. 

Dec.  14.         Pardon  to  Roger  Thornton  of  Wytton,  co.  Northumberland,  esquire, 

Westminster,  late  sheriff  of  the  county  of  Northumberland,  of  all  offences  committed  by 

him  and  all  fines,  amercements,  debts,  accounts  and  arrears  due  from  him 

to  the  king.  By  K. 

Oct.  28.  Grant  for  life   to  the  king's  ser^ntor   Thomas  Garnet,  esquire,   of  an 

Westminster,  annuity  of  20L  from  Michaelmas,  5  Edward  IV.  from  the  issues  or  farm  of 
the  subsidy  and  ulnage  of  cloths  within  the  town  and  liberty  of  Bristol  and 
A  moiety  of  the  for^itures  of  the  same,  in  lieu  of  a  like  grant  to  him  by 
letters  patent  dated  6  September,  1  Edward  IV.  surrendered  for  fear  they 
might  be  invalid.  By  p.s. 

Dec.  13.  Licence  for  John  Thirsk  or  his  heirs  and  executors  to  found  a  perpetual 

Westminster,  chantry  of  one  chaplain  in  the  church  of  St.  John  Baptist,  Hundgate,  in  the 
city  of  York  to  celebrate  divine  service  daily  for  the  good  estate  of  the 
said  John  and  for  his  soul  after  death  and  the  souls  of  Ellen,  Alice  and 
Agnes  his  late  wives,  Bichard  Russell  and  Fctronilla  his  wife,  and  those 
for  whom  he  is  bound  to  pray,  to  be  called  the  chantry  of  John  Thrisk  and 
Richard  Russell,  and  to  grant  in  mortmain  to  the  said  chaplain  lands  and 
tenements  in  the  said  city,  not  held  in  chief,  of  the  value  of  6/.  yearly. 

ByK, 

Grant  to  Ralph  Wolsey,  esquire,  late  victualler  of  the  town  of  Calais,  in 
recompense  of  his  surrender  of  letters  patent  concerning  the  said  o£5ce  at 
the  king's  desire  in  fulfilment  of  au  appointment  between  the  king  and  the 
mayor  and  society  of  the  staple  of  Calais  concerning  the  said  office  amongst 
other  things,  that  he  shall  be  one  of  the  barons  of  the  Exchequer  at  West* 
minster  when  any  such  offipe  of  baron  shall  become  vacant  by  death, 
surrender  or  any  other  cause,  to  hold  such  office  during  good  behaviour, 
receiving  the  af:customed  fees,  the  oilice  of  chief  baron  of  the  Exchequer 
being,  however,  excepted.  By  K. 

Dec.  26.         Grant  for  life  to  James  Holingworth  of  the  office  of  ranger  of  Leefeld 

Westminster,  within  the  king's  forest  of  Ruthland^  with  the  accustomed  fees,  in  the 

same  manner  as  William  Hoton,  deceased.  By  £. 


542  CALENDAR  OF  PATENT  ROLLS. 


1467*  Membrane  11. 

Jan.  9.  Revocation  of  protection  with  claase  volumus^  for  one  year,  granted  on 

Westminster.  8  December  last  by  lettei*s  patent  to  Jerome  Monelesso,  merchant  of  Venice, 
staying  on  the  king's  service  in  the  company  of  the  king's  kinsman  Richard, 
earl  of  Warwick  and  Salisbury,  captain  of  the  town  and  castle  of  Calais,  on 
the  safe-custody,  defence  and  victualling  of  the  same  and  the  marches  there, 
because  he  delays  in  London,  as  appears  by  ceilificate  of  John  Bromer  and 
Henry  Bryce,  sheriffs  of  London. 

Jan.  18.         Licence  for  Master  Patrick  Hallyburton,  bom   in   Scotland,   to  dwell 
Westminster,  within  the  realm  of  England  as  a  faithful  liege  of  the  king,  to  receive 
and  be  instituted  to  ecclesiastical  benefices  and  to  freely  enjoy  his  goods. 

By  p.s. 

Jan.  20.  Grant  to  Henry  Waver,  knight,  that  he  shall  have  for  himself  and  his 
Westminster,  heirs  and  assigns  view  of  frank-pledge  and  all  that  pertains  to  it  within  the 
manor  of  Thester  Waver  to  be  held  twice  each  year  within  the  manor  and 
its  precinct  with  waif  and  stray  within  the  same  manor  and  his  manor  of 
Waver  Merston  and  their  precincts  in  the  county  of  Warwick ;  that  he  and 
his  said  heirs  and  assigns  may  build  and  crenel  late  walls  and  towers  around 
and  within  his  manor  of  Thester  Waver;  that  they  may  impark  and  enclc^e 
500  acres  of  land  and  pasture  and  20  acres  of  wood  at  either  of  the  manors  ; 
and  that  they  sLall  have  free -warren  in  all  the  demesne  lands  of  the  said 
manors  and  several  fisheries  in  all  the  waters  of  the  said  manors,  and  no  one 
shall  enter  therein  to  hunt  or  fish  without  their  licence  under  forfeiture  to 
the  king  of  10/.  provided  that  the  said  lands  be  not  within  the  metes  of  the 
forest.  By  K. 

1466. 

Aug.  8.  Pardon  to  the  king's  brother  George,  duke  of  Clarence,  of  all  debts, 

Westminster,  accounts,  arrears,  issues  and  fines  due  from  him  to  the  king.  By  K, 

Nov.  16.  Grant  to  the  prior  and  brethren  of  the  hospital  of  St.  John  Baptist, 
WeBtminster.  Ludlow,  in  consideration  of  the  depredations  that  they  have  suffered  from 
certain  rebels  in  the  company  of  Henry  VI.  and  for  the  relief  of  the  hospital, 
that  they  shaU  hold  their  lands  and  possessions  freely  and  peacefully  as  did 
their  predecessors  with  all  liberties,  franchises,  customs  and  acquittances, 
that  they  shall  have  view  of  frank- pledge  and  all  that  pertains  to  ic  in  their 
manors  of  Ludlowe,  Ludford,  Rook,  Hawkebath  and  Overton,  that  they 
shall  be  quit  or  any  tenth  or  other  quota  granted  by  the  clergy  of  the  realm 
or  levied  by  the  pope  or  the  king,  that  they  and  their  men  and  tenants  shall 
be  quit  of  all  suits,  pleas,  issues,  fines  and  amercements  of  counties, 
hundreds,  wapentakes,  views  of  frank-pledge  and  other  courts  and  from  all 
toll,  tallage,  picage,  pontage,  murage,  summage,  cheminage,  carriage, 
hidage,  works  of  royal  castles,  towers  and  houses  and  repair  and  building 
of  bridges,  that  they  shall  have  the  goods  and  chattels  of  their  men  and 
tenants  forfeited  for  any  offence,  that  they  may  place  themselves  in  seisin 
and  possess  any  fee  forfeited  by  any  of  their  tenants,  notwithstanding  that 
the  king  is  accustomed  to  possess  the  fees  of  condemned  men  and  fugitives 
for  a  year  and  a  day,  and  that  if  any  of  them  or  their  men  and  tenants  be 
amerced  in  any  court  the  fines  and  amercements  shall  be  delivered  to 
them,  saving  to  the  royal  power  justice  of  life  and  limbs.  By  K. 

1467. 

Feb.  6.  Whereas  in  an  attaint  before  the  king  at  Westminster  by  Henry  Grey  of 

Westminster.  Keteringham,  ^  gentilman,'  against  Bobert  Martyn  and  the  jurors  by  whom 
an  inquisition  was  lately  taken  in  a  suit  before  the  king  at  Westminster 
between  the  said  Bobert  and  the  said  Henry  touching  a  trespass,  judgement 
was  given  that  Nicholas  Bisshop,  William  Holle,  John  Stalon,  Bobert 
Itichemond,  Walter  Borell,  John  Sayer,  John  Groldsmyth,  Robert  Fuller, 
Thomas  Goslyn,  Bobert  Pyrle,  Roger  Denys  and  James  Carter,  the  said 


6  EDWARD  IV.— Pabt  II.  648 


1467.  Membrane  11 — cofU, 

jurors,  did  not  give  true  testimony  and  should  lose  free  law  and  forfeit  all 
their  goods  and  chattels  to  the  king  and  that  their  lands  should  be  taken 
into  the  king's  hands  and  their  wives  and  children  removed  and  that  they 
and  the  said  Robert  Martyn  should  be  seized  ;  the  king  hereby  pardons  to 
the  said  Robert  Fuller,  William  Holle,  Roger  Denys  and  Walter  Borell  all 
such  forfeiture  and  imprisonment  and  grants  that  they  shall  be  restored  to 
free  law.  By  p.s. 

The  like  to  Walter  BorelL  By  p.s. 


\4SQ.  Mbmbranb  10. 

Nov.  17.  Grant  to  the  men  of  the  mistery  of  tailors  within  the  city  of  Exeter  that 

Westminfter.  they  may  found  a  gild  or  fraternity  in  tliat  city  of  the  men  of  the  said 
mistery  and  others  in  honour  of  St.  John  Baptist  and  elect  a  master  and 
four  wardens  at  their  pleasure  for  the  governance  of  the  same.  The  said 
master  and  wardens  shall  have  a  livery  of  vesture  of  one  suit  yearly,  and 
may  make  congregations  in  places  of  the  said  city  pertaining  to  them  and 
hold  their  feast  of  food  and  drink  at  the  feast  of  St.  John  Baptist  and  there 
make  ordinances  for  the  better  governance  of  the  fraternity,  which  shall  be 
solid  and  incorporate  and  called  the  Fraternity  of  tailors  of  St.  John 
Baptist  in  the  city  of  Exeter.  They  shall  have  a  common  seal  and  shall 
have  power  to  plead  and  be  impleaded  and  to  rule  the  said  fraternity  or 
mistery  within  the  said  city  and  the  suburbs,  and  no  one  shall  hold  a 
table  or  shop  of  the  mistery  within  the  liberty  of  the  city  unless  he  be  of 
the  liberty  and  no  one  shall  be  admitted  to  the  liberty  for  that  misteiy 
unless  he  be  testified  to  as  suitable  by  them,  and  they  shall  have  full 
scrutiny  of  the  mistery  within  the  city  and  suburbs,  with  power  to  reform 
abuses  among  themselves  under  the  supemsion  of  the  mayor  of  the  city. 

By  p.3.  and  for  40^.  paid  in  the  hanaper. 

Dec.  IG.  Grant  for  life  to  Richard  Whetehill,  esquire,  and  Adrian  Whetehill  of 
Westminster.  20/.  yearly  from  Michaelmas,  4  Edward  IV.  for  the  sustenance  of  them- 
selves  and  their  clerks  in  the  offices  of  controller  of  the  town  of  Calais  and 
the  marches  there  and  the  mint  within  the  town  from  the  king's  customs  of 
8cf.  from  each  sack  of  wools  and  wool-fells  exported  from  the  town  or  at 
the  hands  of  the  treasurer  of  Calais  at  their  choice,  in  lieu  of  a  like  grant 
to  them  by  letters  patent  dated  7  June,  3  Edward  IV.  surrendere<l  because 
invalid.  By  p.s. 

Mandate  in  pursuance  to  the  collectors  of  the  said  customs  and  the 
treasurer  of  Calais. 

1467. 

Feb.  4.  Grant  to  Master  Malcolm  Cosyn,  canon  and  prebendary  of  Cadyngton 

Westminster.  Major  in  the  church  of  St.  Paul,  London,  of  a  canonry  and  prebend  in  the 

king's  free  chapel  of  St.  Stephen  within  the  palace  of  Westminster,  on  an 

exchange  of  prebends  with  Master  Henry  Sharp.  By  K. 

Mandate  in  pursuance  to  the  dean  of  the  college  of  St.  Stephen. 

Feb,  4,  Licence  for  John  Markham,  knight,  chief  justice  of  the  King's  Bencby 

Westminster.  Elizabeth  late  the  wife  of  Hugh  Hercy  late  of  Grove,  co.  Nottingham, 
esquire,  and  one  of  the  daughters  and  heirs  of  Simon  de  Leke  late  of  Cotum, 
CO.  Nottingham,  esquire,  Richard  Willoughby,  esquire,  Gervase  Hercy  and 
Geoffrey  Staunton,  the  heirs  and  executors  of  the  said  Elizabeth,  to  found 
a  perpetual  chantry  of  one  chaplain  to  celebrate  divine  service  daily  at  the 
altar  of  St.  Mary  the  Virgin  in  the  church  of  St.  Martin,  Saundeby,  co, 
Nottingham,  for  the  good  estate  of  the  king  and  his  consort  Elizabeth, 
queen  of  England,  and  their  heirs  and  the  said  John,  Elizabeth,  Richard, 
Ger^'a8e  and  Geoffrey  and  for  their  souls  after  death  and  the  souls  of  the 


644  CALENDAR  OF  PATENT  ROLLS. 


][46'7^  Membrane  10 — conU 

king's  father  Richard,  duke  of  York,  the  said  Hugh  Hercy,  Simon  de  Lelce 
and  Joan  his  wife,  father  and  mother  of  the  said  Elizabeth,  and  'William 
Saundeby  late  of  Saundebj  and  Elizabeth  his  wife  and  the  ancestors  and 
benefactors  of  the  said  Hugh  and  Elizabeth  his  wife  and  all  for  whom  she 
is  bound  to  pray,  to  be  called  the  chantry  of  Elizabeth  late  the  wife  of  Hu^h 
Hercy,  esquire,  in  the  church  of  St.  Martin,  Saundeby ;  and  for  the  aliena- 
tion in  mortmain  by  them  to  the  said  chaplain  of  lands  and  possessions,  not 
immediately  held  in  chief,  to  the  value  of  100^.  yearly,  for  his  sustenance 
and  the  support  of  certain  works  of  piety. 

By  K.  and  for  20  marks  paid  in  the  hanaper. 

Jan.  26.         Pardon  to  John  Robkyn  of  London,  *  chaundeler,'  of  his  outlawry  in  the 
Westminster,  county   of  Middlesex  for  not  appearing  before  the   king  to  answer    for 
certain  trespasses,  he  having  surrendered  to  the  Marsbalsea  prison,  as  cJohn 
Markham,  knight,  chief  justice  of  the  King's  Bench,  has  certified. 

Feb.  7.  Grant  for  life  to  John  Chambre,  esquire,  of  the  office  of  ranger  within 

Westminster,  the  king's  forest  of  Whitlewodde,  Wakefeld  and  Shrobbe,  co.  Northampton, 

with  the  fees  belonging  to  the  office.  By  p.s. 


14g6^  MSMBRANB  9. 

Nov.  30.  Whereas  by  letters  patent  dated  1  April,  5  Edward  IV.  the  king  granted 
Westminster,  to  John  Burgh,  esquire,  and  the  heirs  male  of  his  body  5  cottages  newly 
built,  7  shops,  a  capital  messuage,  a  toft,  two  parts  of  a  toft,  a  croft,  3 
shambles  and  4  shops  in  Kyrton  or  Kyrketon  in  Lyndesey,  co.  Lincoln,  and 
two  tofts  in  Howton  by  Bekeryng  late  of  Nicholas  Taillour  in  the  same 
county,  late  of  William  Tailboys  of  Southkyme,  knight,  and  in  the  king's 
hands  by  force  of  an  act  in  Parliament  at  Westminster,  4  November,  1 
Edward  lY.  and  a  capital  messuage,  22  other  messuages,  20  tofts,  8  shops, 
4  shambles,  7  crofts  and  4  cottages  in  Kyrton  in  Lyndesey,  a  toft  and  a 
garden  in  Blyton,  a  messuage  and  a  croft  in  Redebum  and  3  messuages  or 
tofts  and  6  crofts  in  Aderby,  co.  Lincoln,  late  of  John  Maydenwell  the  elder 
late  of  Kyrton  in  Lyndesey  and  in  the  king's  hands  as  above  by  virtue  of  an 
act  against  him ;  and  now  it  appears  that  the  said  crofts  and  gardens  belong 
to  or  are  parcel  of  certain  of  the  said  messuages  and  cottages  and  that  the 
premises  aforesaid  are  held  in  chief  of  the  king^s  manor  of  Kyrketon  in 
Lyndesey,  parcel  of  the  duchy  of  Cornwall,  by  divers  several  rents,  and  all 
the  houses  and  buildings  upon  them  were  burnt  before  they  came  into  the 
king's  hands  and  have  not  been  rebuilt,  so  that  the  profits  and  revenues  of 
the  premises  do  not  reach  the  yearly  value  of  6  marks,  the  king  hereby 
pardons  to  the  said  John  Burgh  and  his  heirs  all  rents,  services  and  debts 
due  for  the  said  premises  from  Easter,  5  Edward  IV.  until  10  years  from 
the  present  date.  By  p.s. 

1467. 

Jan.  27.  Pardon  to  Richard  Dabernon  of  Plymmouth,  co.  Devon,  *  marchaunt,'  of 
Westminster,  his  outlawry  in  the  county  of  Cornwall  for  not  appearing  before  the  justices 
of  the  Bench  to  satisfy  Thomas  Tregarthyn  of  8  silver  cups,  2  silver  covers, 
16  silver  spoons,  16  ounces  of  broken  silver  and  a  purse  of  the  value  of  36/. 
as  the  latter  &sserted,  which  with  a  bag  containing  551,  in  money  he 
recovered  against  him  before  the  justices  of  the  Bench  of  the  late  king,  and 
10/.  damages,  he  having  surrendered  to  the  Flete  prison  and  satisfied  the 
said  Thomas,  as  Robert  Danby,  chief  justice  of  the  Bench,  hjis  certified. 

Jan.  29.  Grant    to   John    Scotte,    knight,    of  the   custody   of  the    manors    of 

Westmiuster.  Tyrlyngbam,     Newenton    Bertram,    Westwode,    Staundon,    Combisdane, 

Hokiug,  Rokisle,  Horsmonden,  Levelond,   Penynden,   Northcray,  Knok- 

king  and  Estwell  and  a  moiety  of  the  hun<lred  of  Folkestou,  co.  Kent, 


^^ i 


6  EDWABD  IV.— Part  II. 


545 


\4ffl.  Membrane  9— con^. 

and  all  other  manors,  lordships,  hundreds,  moieties  of  hundreds,  lands, 
rents,  services,  mills,  meadows,  feedings,  pastures,  heaths,  knights'  fees, 
advowsons  and  other  possessions  late  of  Robert  Fonynge3,  knight,  tenant  in 
chief  of  the  late  king,  in  the  county  of  Kent,  from  the  death  of  the  said 
Robert  so  long  as  they  remain  in  the  king's  hand,  and  all  issues  of  the 
same.  By  p.s. 

Feb.  7.  Commission  to  Greoffrey  Castell,  clerk,  for  40  marks  paid  to  the  king,  of 

Westminster,  the  custody  of  all  lands,  rente,  services  and  reversions  late  of  William 
Fortho,  deceased,  tenant  in  chief,  during  the  minority  of  Alice  his  daughter 
nnd  heir,  and  custody  of  the  latter  with  her  marriage  without  disparage- 
ment, finding  a  sufficient  sustenance  for  her.  By  bill  of  the  treasurer. 

Feb.  8.  Exemplification,  at  the  request  of  the  undermentioned  Nicholas,  of  the 

Westminster,    following : — 

1.  A  writ  dated  28  October,  6  Edward  IV.  directing  the  sheriff  of 
Cornwall  as  directed  before  to  make  replevin  to  William  Nordon 
of  his  beasts  which  Nicholas  Hurdeweke,  John  Gynger,  John 
Feryn  the  younger  and  John  Niell  seized  and  detain. 
The  return  of  the  writ.  1  certify  that  the  beasts  have  been  taken 
to  places  unknown  without  the  county  by  the  said  Nicholas,  John, 
John  and  John,  so  that  delivery  cannot  be  made.  And  no  other  writ 
touching  these  beasts  has  been  delivered  to  me.     John  Bere,  sheriff. 


o 


1466. 

Nov.  28. 
Westminster. 


1467. 

Feb.  11. 
Westminster 


Pardon  to  William  Flourc  alias  Aston  of  Gravesendc,  co.  Kent,  *  chap* 
man/  alias  'yoman,'  late  deputy  at  Gravesende  of  Richard  Symson, 
controller  of  the  scrutiny  in  the  port  of  London,  and  of  John  Scelton, 
surveyor  of  the  scrutiny  in  the  said  port,  and  of  William  Baldry,  searcher 
in  the  said  port,  of  all  offences  committed  by  him  before  the  feast  of  St. 
Edmund  the  Bishop  last  against  the  statute  in  Parliament  at  Westminster, 
20  Henry  YI.  concerning  customers  and  others  nnd  all  consequent  penalties 
and  forfeitures  due  to  the  king.  By  p.s. 

Pardon  to  John  Ware  of  London,  *joynour,'  of  his  outlawry  in  the 
county  of  Hertford  for  not  appearing  before  the  king  to  answer  Rirshard 
atte  Welle  late  of  Ledered,  co.  Surrey,  *  husbondman,'  for  having  with 
William  Burford  of  Cobcham,  co.  Surrey,  *  tanner,'  and  Thomas  Mongomery 
of  London,  *  goldsmyth,'  conspired  with  Nicholas  Carrewe  late  of  Bedyngton, 
CO.  Surrey,  ecquire,  Richard  Luggchford  of  the  parish  of  Godstone,  co. 
Surrey,  *  yoman,'  Thomas  Slyfehl  of  Great  Bokcham,  co.  Surrey,  *  gentil- 
man,'  Richard  Kyng  of  Groat  Bokcham,  *  husbondman,'  John  atte  Lee  of 
Effyngham,  co.  SuiTcy,  *  yoman,'  John  Home  of  Ledered,  *  husbondman,' 
Henry  Mountegewe  of  Ledered  the  elder,  *fletcher,'  Roger  Skete  of 
Ledered,  *  husbondman,'  John  Poweke  of  Ledered,  *  bocher,'  Thomas 
Bullok  of  Ledered,  *  baker,'  John  Bechc  of  Asshestede,  co.  Surrey,  *  hus- 
bondman,' Adam  Porter  of  Mlkelham^  co.  Surrey,  'husbondman,'  Thomas 
Charlwode  late  of  Walton  on  the  Hyll,  co.  Surrey,  *  husbondman,'  Richard 
Dokyll  of  Croydon,  co.  Stirrev,  'yoman,'  Robert  Myllc  of  Croydon, 
*  yoman,'  Thomas  Compton  of  Chcyham,  co.  Surrey,  *  yoman,'  John 
Rychebele  of  Biinsted,  co.  Surrey,  *  yoman,'  Thomas  Wryght  of  Neudegate, 
CO.  SuiTey,  *  yoman,'  John  Broke  of  Kcrshalton,  co.  Surrey,  *  fuller,' 
Thomas  Leycestro  of  Kershalton,  *  yoman,'  William  Hyde  of  Feccbam, 
CO.  Surrey,  '  gentiluian,'  John  Groffiim  of  Ledred,  '  yoman,'  and  Walter 
Holt  late  of  Ledred, '  roper,'  at  Great  Oflle  and  caused  the  said  Richard 
atte  Welle  to  be  charged  with  having  on  Friday  before  St.  Andrew, 
39  Henry  YI.  broken  the  close  and  house  of  Nicholas  Carrewe,  -esquire, 
at  Bedyngton,  co.  Surrey,  within  the  liberty  of  the  honour  of  Walyngford 


u    86914. 


M  M 


54G  CALBNDAB  OF  PATENT  ROLLS. 


1467.  Membrane  9 — coiU. 

and  stolen  four  horses  worth  2(>f.  8^.  and  to  be  detaineii  in  the  Marshalsea 
prison  until  he  was  acqnitted  at  Westminster :  he  having  sisrrendered 
to  the  Marshalsea  piison,  as  John  Markham,  knight,  chief  justice  of  the 
King's  Ptench,  has  certified. 

Mbubrane  8. 

Feb.  4.  Grant    to   Thonms  C;oIt,  esquire,  and  William  Fyncham,   citizen   and 

Westmiufftcr.  mercer  of  London,  in  repayment  of  192/.  4*.  Sd.  lent  by  them  to  the  king, 
that  they  or  their  executors,  factors  or  attorneys  may  ship  woollen  cloths 
of  any  colour,  pieces  of  tin  called  *  bloktyn '  of  Cornwall  and  Devon  and 
pieces  of  lead  calle<l  *•  sowes  of  lede  '  of  any  weight  in  any  ports  of  the  realm 
and  take  them  to  foreign  parts  quit  of  customs  and  subsidies,  until  thej 
shall  thus  be  satisfied  of  the  said  sum.  By  K!. 

Feb.  7.  Grant  for  life   to  John  Bricon,  clerk,  master  of  arts,  that  he  be  prior  of 

Westminster,  the  hospital  of  St.  John  Baptist,  Briggenorth,  co.  Salop,  void  by  the  resig- 
nation of  Hugh  Cardemaker,  the  last  prior,  with  all  profits.  By  p.s. 

Feb.  6.  Grant  for  life  to  V^alter  Devereux,  knight,  lord  Ferrers,  from  Michaelmas, 

Westminster.  4  Edward  IV.  of  the  oflfico  of  captain  or  constable  of  the  king's  castle  of 
Aberustwith  in  South  Wales  with  all  profits  of  the  town  of  Aberusiwith  and 
nil  meadows,  feedings,  pastures  and  customs  called  *  Prysemayse '  in 
Aberustwith,  receiving  the  accustomed  fees  from  the  issue  of  the  king's 
castle,  lordship  and  manor  of  Aberustwith  at  the  hands  of  the  chamberlain  of 
South  Wales  and  also  the  accustomed  daily  wages  for  one  armed  man  and 
12  archers  from  the  same.  By  p.s. 

1466. 

Sept.  22.  Grant  to  Thomas  Garnet,  esquire,  and  his  heirs  and  assigns  of  a  me&suage 
Westminster,  called  Shyngelford  Halle  with  all  courts  and  houses  and  280  acres  of  land 
and  60  acres  of  meudow  with  appurtenances  in  the  county  of  Essex, 
sometime  of  John  Gower,  a  messuage  in  Suthwerk  sometime  called  *  le 
Faukon '  and  two  messuages,  a  court  with  certain  lands  adjacent,  91  acres 
and  1  rood  of  arable  land  and  12  acres  of  meadow  in  Suthlambhith, 
CO.  Surrey,  belonging  to  the  king  by  virtue  of  an  act  in  the  Parliament 
summoned  at  Westminster  on  29  April,  3  Edward  IV.  and  continued  to  21 
January,  4  Edward  IV.  to  hold  the  sanio  by  the  sei-vice  of  \d.  yearly,  and 
pardon  to  him  of  all  sums  of  money,  debts,  accounts  and  arrears  due  to  the 
king  for  the  premises.  '  By  p.s. 

Nov.  11.  Whereas  by  an  inquisition  t:;ken  before  William  Tystede  the  younger, 
Westminster,  esquiie,  late  oscheator  in  the  county  of  Wilts,  it  appears  that  Bicliard 
Fryston,  clerk,  was  seised  of  the  manor  of  Codford  Mane,  the  moieties  of 
the  manors  of  Stepullaugford,  Deene  and  Grym.stede,  and  the  advowsons  of 
the  churches  of  Codford  Marie,  Stepullangford,  Deene  and  Grymstede, 
CO.  Wilts,  in  his  demesne  as  of  fee  to  the  use  of  Miles  Stapilton,  knight, 
deceased,  and  by  inlenture  demised  the  same  without  licence  to  the  said 
Aliles  and  the  heirs  of  his  body,  with  successive  remainders  to  the  heirs  of 
the  body  of  Brian  Stapilton,  esquire,  deceased,  his  brother,  and  the  right 
heirs  of  the  said  Miles,  and  the  said  Miles  died  seised  of  the  same  in  his 
demesne  as  of  fee  tail,  and  the  said  manor  and  advowson  of  Ck>dford  Marie 
are  held  in  chief  by  the  service  of  the  twentieth  pai*t  of  a  knight's  fee  and 
the  other  premises  by  the  service  of  the  fourth  part  of  a  knight's  fee,  and 
the  premises  are  now  in  the  kings  hands,  the  king,  for  17/.  paid  in  the 
hanaper,  pardons  the  trespass. 

1467- 

Feb,  20.  Appointment,  during  pleasure,  of  Henry  Harper  and  William  Gierke  of 

Westminster.  Wellington,  co.  Hereford,  as  auditors  of  the  accounts  of  the  chamberlain  of 


6  EDWARD  IV.— Pabt  IL  547 


1467*  Membrane  8 — cont. 

South  Wales  and  the  sherifis,  escheators,  riugilds,  bailiffsi  reeves  and  other 
officers  and  ministers  of  the  king  in  the  counties  of  Kermerdyn  and 
Cardigan,  receiving  such^fees  as  Waller  Cersyn  and  William  Weldon  had 
for  the  same  office  at  the  hands  of  the  said  chamberlain  from  the  issues  of 
the  said  counties.  By  p.8. 

Membrane  7. 

Feb.  9.  Pardon,  for  ^  mark  paid  lu  the  hanaper,  to  John  Coket  the  elder,  John 

Westminster.  Coket  the  younger,  John  Apulthorp,  Walter  Coket,  clerk,  Roger  Rokewod, 
Walter  Coket  of  Ingham,  William  Drury  and  John  Ivc  the  younger  of 
their  trespass  in  acquiring  from  William  Davy  of  Honeweton,  Henry  Davy 
his  son,  Robert  Alcok  of  Fakenham  Aspis,  William  his  son,  Robert  Flynt- 
hard  of  Troston  and  John  Wynyevo  of  Troston,  co.  Suffolk,  and  William 
Cannceler,  chaplsdn,  now  deceased,  a  messuage,  26  acres  of  land  and  a 
moiety  of  a  rood  of  meadow  in  Honeweton,  Sapeston  and  Fakenham  Aspis, 
CO.  Suffolk,  held  in  chief,  and  entering  thereon  without  licence ;  and  grant 
that  they  may  hold  the  same  to  themselves  and  their  heirs. 

Feb.  21.  General  pardon  to  Roger  atte  Hurne  of  Stoke  within  the  hundred  of 

Westminster.   Chewe,  co.  Somerset,  *  wheler,'  of  all  offences  committed  by  him  before 

19  February  last.  By  p.s. 

Feb.  22.  Presentation  of  John  Hofd,  chaplain,  to  the  perpetual  chantry  founded 

Westminster,   by  king  Richard  in  the  church  of  St.  Antony,  London,  according  to  the  . 
ordinance  of  Nicholas  Bole,  sometime  citizen  and  skinner  of  Loudon. 

Feb.  25.  Grant  for  life  to  John  Wode,  master  of  the  king's  ordnance,  of  all  the 

Westminster,  lands  and  tenements  late  of  Thomas  Soules  in  the  Hough  in  Stanfordham, 
CO.  Northumberland,  forfeited  by  the  latter,  of  the  yearly  value  of  30^., 
31f.  free  rent  in  Ullaston  by  Haukewell,  co.  Northumberland,  and  a  tene- 
ment in  Ingowe  called  *  the  pasturesfelde,'  co.  Northumberland,  of  the 
yearly  value  of  78,  in  the  king's  hands  on  the  decease  of  John  Fclton, 
knight,  and  the  farm  and  rent  of  the  town  or  lordship  of  Newebyggyng  by 
Wodehomc,  co.  Northumberland,  of  the  yearly  value  of  10/.  i^.  in  the 
king's  hands  by  the  forfeiture  of  John  BuUiall,  late  king  of  the  Scots,  as 
WiUiam  Eryngton,  esquire,  now  deceaseil,  lately  held  the  same.        By  p.s. 

Feb.  26.  Appointment  of  John  Wode  as  deputy  of  John  Wenlok,  lord  of  Wenlok, 

Westmmster.  knight,  chief  butler  of  England,  in  the  port  of  Newcastle  on  Tyne  and 
ports  and  places  adjacent,  receiving  the  accustomed  fees. 

By  bill  of  the  chief  butler. 

Feb.  26.  Grant  for  life  to  William,  carl  of  Arundel,  in  lieu  of  a  like  grant  to 
Westminster.  William  Fenys,  lord  Say  of  Scale,  knight,  by  letters  patent  dated  14  July, 
1  Edward  IV.  surrendered,  of  the  office  of  keeper  of  the  New  Forest,  co. 
Southampton,  the  manor  and  park  of  Lyndeherst,  the  hundred  of  Rudbergh 
and  a  rent  of  40;.  yearly  paid  by  the  abbot  of  Redyng  for  a  tenement  in  the 
forest  and  all  other  liberties,  privileges  and  profits  pertaining  to  the  above, 
deer  excepted,  with  remainder  to  Thomas  Arundell,  knight,  lord  Man 
travers,  and  his  heirs  male  by  Margaret  his  wife,  daughter  of  Richard,  earl 
Ryvers,  and  Jaquetta  his  wife,  duchess  of  Bedford,  mother  of  the  king's 
consort  Elizabeth,  queen  of  England.  By  K. 


Membrane  6. 

Jan.  2.  Grant  to  the  king's  esquire  Thomas  Vaghan,  one  of  the  esquires  of  the 

Westminster,  body,  and  his  heirs  and  assigns,  for  his  good  service  to  the  king  and  his 

father  Richard,  late  duke  of  York,  and  because  he  has  paid  1000/.  to  the 

II  M  2 


548  CALENDAR  OF  PATENT  ROLLS. 


1467.  Membrane  C — coni. 

king,  of  tbe  manors  and  lordships  of cKyngesnoth  and  Milton,  co.  Kent,  and 
300  acres  of  land  in  Kyngcsnoth,  and  the  manors  and  lordships  of  Shapwjk 
and  Egle,  co.  Sussex,  late  of  Thomas  Broun,  knight,  and  John  Fortescu, 
knight,  to  tho  use  of  the  former  and  in  the  king's  hands  by  his  forfeiture 
because  he  was  attainted  of  high  treason  by  an  act  of  Parliament  at  West- 
minster, 4  November,  I  Edwai-d  IV.  with  kuights'  fee?,  advowson^,  courts 
lect,  views  of  frank-pledge,  wards,  marriages,  reliefs,  escheats,  fairs, 
marllets,  parks,  warrens  and  all  liberties  and  franchises.  Grant  also  to  him 
and  Eleanor  his  wife,  late  the  wife  of  the  said  Thomas  Broun,  and  their 
assigns  of  the  manors  and  lordships  of  Eythorne,  Morehall,  Brikhill  and 
Aloryse  and  the  office  of  alderman  of  Westgate,  Canterbury,  with  all  rights 
and  profits,  co.  Kent,  the  castle,  manor  or  lordship  of  Westbechesworth,  oo. 
Surrey,  the  manor  of  Chankton,  co.  Sussex,  a  messuage  with  a  wharf  and 
other  ap2)urtenances  near  Billyngesgate  in  the  city  of  London,  6  messuages 
in  Lymestrete  with  a  garden  and  other  edifices  in  the  same  city,  6  mes- 
suages with  a  wharf  and  other  appurtenances  in  the  Vintry,  London,  and 
5  tenements  with  appurtenances  and  edifices  in  Knyghtriderstrete  in  the 
parish  of  St.  Benet,  London,  late  of  the  said  Thomas  and  John  and  in  the 
king's  hands  as  above,  with  knight's  fees,  advowsons,  wards,  marriages, 
reliefs,  escheats,  courts  leet,  views  of  frank-pledge  and  other  liberties  and 
profits.  Grant  also  to  them  and  their  heirs  and  assigns  of  the  manors  and 
lordships  of  Halton,  cO  acres  of  land  in  Godmersham,  Henley  alicu 
Colkyns  Place,  co.  Kent,  and  Cnldehnm,  Alkeham,  HerstishaU,  Ballastris, 
Wylmeston  with  the  advowson  of  the  perpetual  chantry  of  St.  Mary,  Burley, 
in  the  parish  of  Cherrynu,  co.  Kent,  the  manors  and  lordships  of  Maisteris, 
Westbere,  God  well,  Wymelyngeweld,  Berfreyston  alias  Berston,  Tye, 
Dene  in  the  Lsle  of  Thanct,  and  Coperlaiid  alias  Archeriscourt,  co.  Kent, 
the  manors  or  tenements  called  Hertanger,  Deyncouit,  Pawnassli  and 
Dyngleys,  co.  Kent,  the  manors  or  lordships  of  Yffyng,  Wylmyston,  Pirie 
and  Shillynghelde,  co.  Kent,  a  nief^suage  in  ()spr}nge,  a  windmill  in  Ber- 
freston,  a  piece  of  nuirsh  in  Dele,  3  messuages  in  Westgatestrete  by  Can- 
terbury, 3  messuages  and  6  acres  of  wood  in  Herbaldowne,  a  messuage 
called  ^  le  Cok '  in  Mallynge,  3  messuages  in  Lyde,  a  windmill  in  Whitstabie, 
a  messuage  in  Gravysende,  a  piece  of  land  in  Maydestone,  a  messuage  in 
Godmersbam,  n  piece  of  land  called  *  Genteles  '  in  the  parish  of  Aldyngton, 
a  messuage  called  *  Cokeryng '  in  the  parish  of  Tenyngton,  a  messuage 
in  Gravysende  called  *  Oklinmysplace,'  30  acres  of  land  in  Maydestone,  a 
messuage  in  Godmersham,  a  tenement  in  Tenham,  a  tenement  in  Halden, 
a  tenement  with  32  acres  of  laud  in  Upchirche,  a  piece  of  land  called 
*  Genteles '  in  the  parish  of  Aldyngton,  a  messuage  called  *  Cokeryng,'  a 
tenement  called  *  Beltyng,*  a  tenement  called  *  Perotisplace,'  22  acres  of 
land  in  Nutynton,  a  tenement  called  Me  Bekyn,' a  tenement  called  *Stretend', 
a  tenement  in  Westram  antl  a  barn  and  4  acres  of  land  in  Osprynge-,  co. 
Kent,  6  messuages  in  Dorkyng,  a  tenement  called  *  Nymmys,'  a  piece  of 
land  called  *Flusldond,'  a  jiicce  of  land  in  Estbechesworth,  a  meadow 
called  *  Bladynfraden,'  a  parcel  of  land  called  *  Benham,'  a  parcel  of  land 
called  *  Whittyng'  and  a  messuf\gc  called  Me  Place,'  co.  Surrey,  the  manors 
and  lordships  of  Compton,  Westmorden,  Brokhous  in  Estburne,  Foxhunt 
and  Walstede,  a  meadow  called  *  Litehvorth,'  a  messuage  called  *  Morfetys,' 
(5  messuages  in  Rye  and  12  messuages  and  100  acres  of  land  in  Wychelse, 
CO.  Sussex,  the  manors  and  lordships  of  Drayton,  Chaungtoo,  Passhelcy, 
Wynde,  Sire  with  the  hundreds  of  Waldern  Wancy,  Waldern  Rancy,  an<l 
the  park  of  Ywode  and  all  appurtenances  in  the  counties  of  Surrey  and 
Sussex,  the  manor  and  lordship  of  Broughunt  and  3  messuages  in  the 
county  of  Southampton  and  all  other  lands  and  possessions  late  of  the 
said  Thomas  and  John  and  in  the  king's  hands  as  above,  excepting  the 
manors  and  lordships  of  Swanscompe  and  Erehith,  co.  Kent,  and  all  other 


6  EDWARD  IV.— PiBT  11.  519 


1467.  Membrane  6 — cont. 

lands  late  of  the  king's  father  Bicbard,  late  duke  of  York,  excepting  also 
the  manors  of  Tonsford  and  Dane,  eo.  Kent,  with  knight's  fees,  ad^owsons^ 
wards,  marriages,  reliefs,  escheats,  courts  leet,  views  of  frank-pledge,  and 
other  liberties  and  profits.  And  grant  to  the  said  Thomas  Vaghan  of  all 
issues  and  profits  of  the  above,  and  grant  to  him  and  the  said  Eleanor  of 
all  goods  and  chattels  and  sums  of  money  late  of  the  said  Thomas  Broun  and 
all  debts  and  arrears  due  to  him.  Bjr  p.s. 

Feb.  22.         General  pardon  to  Oliver  Manyngham  late  of  York,  ^  gcntilman,'  alias 

WestminHter.  late  of  London,  alifis  late  of  Stoke  Fogeys,  co.  Buckingham,  alias  late  of 

Lewton,  co.  Bedford,  of  all  offences  committed  by  him  befora  20  February 

last.  By  p.s. 

Membranes  *5  and  4. 

Feb.  18.  Commission  to  Richard  Neel,  Thomas  Palmer,  and  Robeit  Staunton  to 

Westminster,  enquire  into  the  following  claim  of  Richard  Byngham,  knight,  and  Margaret 
his  wife,  Thomas  Ferrera,  knight,  John  Aston,  esquire,  and  William  Berkeley, 
esquire,  and  to  return  their  inquisitions  into  Chancery.  The  petitioners 
have  shown  that  a  fine  was  levied  at  York  at  Michaelmas,  32  Edward  I. 
before  Ralph  de  Hengham  and  his  fellows,  then  justices  of  the  Benctii 
between  Alan  la  Zusche,  plaintiff,  and  William  Tor  of  Swaveshey,  chap- 
lain, defendant,  touching  the  manor  of  Ashby  la  Zusche,  by  which  the  said 
Alan  acknowledged  the  manor  to  be  the  right  of  the  said  William  of  his  gift, 
and  the  latter  granted  the  said  manor  to  the  said  Alan  for  life  with 
remainder  to  William  la  Zusche  of  Ricardes  Castell  and  the  heirs  of  his 
body,  and  the  said  Alan  was  seised  of  the  manor  and  received  the  esplees 
,  thereof  and  afler  his  death  the  said  William  la    Zusche  was  seised  of  it  in 

his  demesne  as  of  fee  tail  in  time  of  peace  in  time  of  Edward  III.  aud 
received  the  esplees  thereof,  and  the  right  of  the  manor  descended  from 
him  to  Alan  his  son  and  heir  and  from  Alan  to  Hugh  his  son  and  heir, 
who  died  without  issue,  and  then  to  Jocosa  the  sister  of  Alan  the  father  of 
Hugh,  and  from  her  to  John  her  son  and  heir  and  from  him  to  Jocosa  his 
daughter  and  heir,  who  died  without  issue,  and  then  to  her  aunt«  Jocosa 
and  Katharine  sisters  of  the  said  John,  and  the  right  of  the  last  named 
Jocosa  descended  to  Baldwin  her  son  and  heir  and  from  him  to  the  said 
Margaret,  cue  oi  the  petitioners,  and  Elizabeth  and  Jocosa  her  sisters  as 
his  (laughters  and  heirs,  and  the  right  of  the  said  Elizabeth  descended  lo 
the  said  Thomas,  one  of  the  petitioners,  as  her  son  and  heir,  and  the  right 
of  hrr  sister  Jocosa  descended  to  Robert  her  son  and  heir  and  from  him  to 
the  said  John,  one  of  the  said  petitioners,  as  his  son  and  heir,  and  th.3 
right  of  the  .<taid  Katharine  descended  to  Maurice  her  son  and  heir,  and 
from  him  to  Maurice  his  son  and  heir,  and  from  the  latter  to  the  said 
William,  one  of  the  petitioners,  as  his  son  aud  heir;  and  in  Parliament  at 
Westminster,  4  ^ovemuer,  1  Edward  IV.  it  was  ordained  that  James, 
late  earl  of  Wiltshire,  should  be  convicted  of  high  treason  and  forfeit  all 
the  possessions  which  he  had  on  4  March,  1  Edward  IV.  in  England, 
Ireland,  Wales  and  Calais  and  the  marches  of  the  s^ame  without  the  liberty 
of  the  bishopric  of  Durham,  viz.  between  the  rivers  Tyne  and  Theeseandin 
the  places  called  Norhamshire  and  Bedivngtonshire,  co.  Northumberland; 
and  by  an  inquisition  taken  at  Leicester  on  14  l^'eptember,  4  Edward  IV. 
before  William  Ayssheby,  then  eschculor  in  the  county,  by  virtue  of  his 
office  it  was  presented  that  the  said  rarl  was  seised  in  his  demesne  as  of 
fee  on  the  said  4  March  of  the  said  manor  of  Aysshby  de  la  Zouche,  co. 
Leicester,  worth  29/.  4*.  yearly,  aud  by  another  inquisition  taken  at  Leicester 
on  15  September  it  was  presented  Ihat  the  said  earl  on  14  October,  37 
Henry  VI.  being  seised  of  the  said  manor  enfeoffed  Ralph,  lord  of  Sudeley, 
Willi;nn     Spyntg(M)rgr,    knight,    Richard    Byngham,   one    of    the    king's 


550  -  CALEBTDAB  OF  PATENT  ROLLS. 


1467.  Membranes  5  and  i^^cont, 

justices^  Robert  Stonham,  Lawr^oice  Cheyne,  William  Alyngioiiy  William 
Brounyng,  William  Curwjn,  William  Harper,  esquires^  Richard  Neel, 
Thomas  Littelton,  and  Thomi^  iKverdon  and  others  dcoeftsed  of  the  same 
to  his  use,  and  by  another  inqaisitiou  taken  at  Leicester  pn  16  September 
it  was  presented  thbt  the  said  earl  was  seised  of  the  said  manor  until  John 
Lovell,  knighty  expelled  him  before  the  said  4  March ;  and  the  petitioners 
further  say  that  the  said  Jocosa  the  daughter  of  John  and  Hugh  Bumell, 
knight,  her  husband,  were  seised  of  the  said  manor  by  force  of  the  said  fine 
nud  granted  it  to  William  Gascoigne,  John  Rome,  clerk,  John  Rede,  John 
Joynour  and  John  Burgoign  the  younger,  and  the  heirs  of  the  latter,  and 
the  said  William,  John,  John,  John  and  John  were  seised  of  the  same, 
and  the  said  earl  had  their  estate  in  the  manor,  and  was  seised  of  it  in  his 
demesne  as  of  fee  before  the  said  4  March ;  and  by  virtue  of  the  said  act,  and 
the  inquisition  of  the  said  14  September  the  manor  was  taken  into  the  king's 
hands  and  remained  in  the  king's .  bands  until  the  26th  October  following 
when  the  king  by  letters  patent  of  that  date  granted  it  to  William  Has- 
tynges,  king's  knight  and  chamberlain,  who  entered  into  it  and  is  still  seised 
of  it  in  his  demesne  as  oC  fee ;  and  the  said  manor  is  not  within  the 
said  liberty  of  the  bishopric  of  Durham,  nor  is  any  parcel  of  it,  and  the 
siud  petitioners  have  not  been  attainted  by  the  said  act,  nor  has  any  of 
them ;  wherefore  they  pray  that  justice  may  be  done.  By  K. 

Membrane  A — cont.  . 

Feb.  18.  General  pardon  to  Robert  Wright  cdias  Smyth  of  Leycestre,  co.  Leicester, 

We-jtminster.  <  coteler.'  By  p.s. 

Feb.  24.         Grant  for  life  to  Ralph  Seinti^^,  esquire,  from  4  March,  1  Edward  IV . 
Westminster,  of  the  6  marks  yearly  which  the  prior  of  Folkestone  is  bound  to  pay.  to 
the  king  and  which  he  used  to  pay  to  the  chief  house  of  the  priory  beyond 
seas  in  time  of  peace. 

Mandate  in  pursuance  to  the  said  prior. 

1466. 

April  10.        General  pardon  to  Robert  Elyson  late  of  London,  *  sadeler.'  By  p.s. 

Westminster. 

The  like  to  John  Elyson  late  of  the  parish  of  St.  Clement  Danes  without 
the  Bar  of  the  New  Temple,  London,  co.  Middlesex,  ^sporiour.'        By  p.8. 

1467. 

Feb.  10.  Grant  for  life  to  Thomas  Byngham  of  the  office  of  clerk  of  the  statute 

Westminster,   merchant  with  the  custody  of  ibe  lesser  part  of  the  seal  of  the  office  within 

the  town  of  Notyngham,  with  the  accustomed  fees.  By  K. 

1466. 

April  27.        Licence  for  the  prior  and  convent  of  the  monastery  of  Selby  to  elect  an 
Westminster,   abbot  in  the  place  of  Dan  John  Ousthorp,  deceased.  By  p.s. 

May  3.  Licence  for  the  prior  and  convent  of  the  monastery  of  St.  Mary,  Roucestre, 

Westminster,  of  the  Augustinian  order,  in  the  diocese  of  Coventry  and  .Lichfield,  to  elect 
an  abbot  in  the  place  of  John  Hambury,  resigned. 

1467.  Membranb  3. 

Feb.  18.  Grant  for  life  to  Thomas  Perkyns  and  Thomas  Combe,  esquires,  in  lieu 

Westminster,  of  a  like  gi*nnt  to  William  Sandes,  esquire,  and  the  said  Thomas  Combe  by 
letters  patent  dated  26  October,  2  Edward  IV.  sarrendered,  of  the  office 
of  launder  of  the  king's  park  of  Clarindon,  co.  Wilts,  receiving  3 J.  daily 
for  wages  and  13^.  Ad.  yearly  at  Christmas  for  their  robe  and  10^.  yearly 
at  Easter  for  their  Fummor  \  estnre  from  the  issues  of  the  county  of  Wilts, 
as  were  allowed  for  John  Consyn,  late  launder  of  the  park,  in  the  account 


I 


\ 


« 


6  EDWARD  IV.— Part  II.  551 


1467.  Membrane  3 — cont. 

of  Ralph  Cheyne,  late  sheriff  of  Wilts,  in  the  year  61  Edward  III.  and  for 
Waiter  Worth  in  the  account  of  John  Moigne,  late  sheriff,  in  the  year 
18  Richard  II.  with  all  other  accustomed  profits.  By  p.s. 

1463,  Mbmbranb  2. 

Nov.  29.  Licence  for  Roger  Corbet  of  Moreton,  knight,  and  Elizabeth  his  wife, 
Westmioster.  kinswoman  and  one  of  the  heirs  of  William  Lucy,  knight,  viz.  daughter  of 
Eleanor  one  of  his  sisters  and  heirs,  to  enter  freely  into  a  moiety  of  all  the 
lordships,  manors,  lands  and  other  possessions  which  Maigaret,  late  the 
wife  of  the  said  William,  held  on  the  day  of  her  death  for  life  or  in  fee  tail 
or  in  dower  or  otherwise,  and  a  moiety  of  all  the  lordships,  manors,  lands 
and  other  possessions  which  the  said  William  held  on  the  day  of  his  death 
in  fee  tail  within  England  and  the  marches  of  Wules,  and  which  on  their 
death  came  into  the  king's  hands  and  ought  to  descend  to  her,  to  hold  from 
4  November  last,  although  the  other  moieties  of  the  same  belong  to  the 
king  by  the  forfeiture  of  William  Vaux,  knight,  attainted  of  high  treason 
by  an  act  in  Parliament  at  Westminster,  4  November,  1  Edward  IV.  who 
was  the  other  heir  of  the  said  William  Lucy,  viz.  son  of  Matilda  late  his 
other  sister.  By  p.8. 

1467.  Mmmbranm  1. 

Feb.  25.  Grant  for  life  to  the  king's  servant  Thomas  Saintlegere  of  the  offices  of 
Wentminster.  controller,  banker  and  assayer  of  the  money  and  coinage  of  gold  and  silver 
within  the  Tower  of  London,  receiving  the  accustomed  fees  as  in  the  times 
of  Edward  III.  and  Richard  II.  at  the  hands  of  the  keeper  of  the  mint  and 
exchange  within  the  Tower,  in  lieu  of  a  like  grant  to  him  by  other  letters 
patent  surrendered.  By  p.8* 

March  2.        Presentation  of  Thomas  Bloxham  to  the  parish  church  of  St.  Nichasius  in 
We^tminBter.  the  parts  of  Picardy,  in  the  diocese  of  Terouanoe.     The  letters  are  directed 
to  Th.  archbishop  of  Canterbury. 

1466. 

Sept.  22.         Whereas  the  late  king  by  letters  patent  dated  19  May,  17  Henry  YI. 

Windsor,  confirmed  by  letters  patent  dated  10  March,  2  Edward  lY.  released  to  the 
inhabitants  of  the  town  of  New  Wyndesore  7/.  yearly  from  the  yearly  farm 
of  17/.  which  they  were  bound  to  render  to  him,  and  now  certain  tenements 
in  the  town  are  threatened  with  ruin  and  the  inhabitants  have  come  to  great 
poverty,  and  200  acres  of  land  in  the  parish  of  New  Wyndesore  adjoining 
the  town  which  they  held  at  fee  farm  for  pasture  and  cultivation  for  pay- 
ment of  the  farm  of  the  town  have  been  lately  enclosed  by  the  king  for  a 
park,  the  king  grants  in  recompence  to  Edmund  Pury,  now  mayor,  Thomas 
Sheiman  and  William  Stephen,  bailiffs,  and  the  burgesses  and  inhabitants 
of  the  town  that  they  shall  be  one  body  and  incorporate  commonalty  and 
shall  have  perpetual  succession  and  power  of  acquiring  lands  in  fee  and 
perpetuity  and  of  pleading  and  being  impleaded,  and  pardons  to  them  the 
said  71.  yearly  and  all  arrears  of  the  same  and  grants  that  they  shall  have 
a  fair  yearly  in  the  town  on  the  feast  of  St.  Edwaixl,  king  and  con- 
fessor, provided  that  it  be  not  to  the  harm  of  neighbouring  fairs.        By  p.8. 

Nov.  13.  Whereas  John  Colyngruge  of  Hethorpe,  co.  Buckingham,  by  writing 
Westminster,  obligatory  dated  20  January,  33  Henry  YI.  is  bound  to  William  Staunton, 
abbot  of  Notteley,  and  Edmund  Hampden,  knight,  in  10/.  to  be  paid  to 
they  or  their  heirs  or  assigns  at  Easter  then  following,  and  the  said 
Edmund  was  attainted  of  high  treason  by  virtue  of  an  act  in  Parliament  at 
Westminster,  4  November,  1  Edward  IV,  by  reason  of  which 'the  said  10/, 


552  CALENDAR  OP  PATENT  ROLLS. 


l^g^  Membranes  1 — cont. 

is  forfeited  to  the  kiug,  the  king  hereby  grants  the  said  10/.  to  his  servitor 
William  Staveley  and  his  assigns.  By  K. 

1457.  Mbmbkanb  22d. 

Feb.  26.  Commission  of  oyer  and  terminer  to  the  king's  kinsman  John,  earl  of 

Westminster.  Northumberland,  Robert  Danby,  knight,  John  Nedeham,  knight,  Thomas 

Litteltou,  John  Nixon,  mayor  of  the  town  of  Newcastle  on  Tyne,  Richard 

Thorneton,  John  Wode  and  John  Underwode  within  the  said  town  and  the 

liberty  of  the  same.  By  E. 

1466.  Membrane  2\d. 

July  18.  Commipsion  of  oyer  and  terminer  to  G.  archbishop  of  York,  the  king's 

Westminster,  kinsman  Richard,  earl  of  Warwick  and  Salisbury,  Humphrey  Bourgchier  of 
Cromwell,  knight,  Robert  Danby,  knight,  Richard  Byngham,  knight,  John 
Nedeham,  knight,  Robert  Markeham,  knight,  John  Stanhape,  esquire, 
Richanl  Willoughby,  esquire,  Richard  Byngham  the  yoonger,  esquire, 
Thomas  Moleneux  and  Thomas  Neville  of  Southleverton  for  the  supervision 
of  the  river  Trent  and  other  streams  descending  to  it  from  Notyngham  to 
Stokwyth  in  the  county  of  Nottingham,  and  the  observation  of  the  statutes 
of  25  and  45  Edward  III.  and  i  Henry  IV.  concerning  the  erection  of 
weirs,  mills,  stanks,  pales  and  kiddles. 

Sept.  26.        Commission  to  William  Kene,  esquire,   John   Fraunces,  John  Yiolety 

Westminster.   William  Myller  and  Richard  Bailly  to  arrest  William  Daweson  and  Thomas 

Cheseman  and  bring  them  before  the  king  in  Chancery  to  find  security 

that   they   will    not  harm    Robert    Hobbes    or    anyone    of    the    king's 

weirs,  people. 

July  20.  Commission  to  Thomas  Cvedale,  knight,    Maurice  Berkeley,  esquire, 

Westminster.  Edward  Langford,  esquire,  Vincent  Pydelsden,  esquire,  Thomas  Wellis, 
William  Nedham  and  the  sheriff  of  Southampton  to  enquire  what  goods, 
merchandise  and  gear  came  ashore  from  a  carrack  of  Genoa  called  la  Sancta 
Marioy  of  which  Christopher  John  was  master,  which  was  wrecked  near  the 
Isle  of  Wight,  and  into  whose  hands  they  came,  9a  the  king  understands 
from  certain  merchants  of  Genoa  that  certain  goods  came  ashore  and  were 
detained  by  certain  of  the  king's  lieges  after  the  taking  of  inquisitions  to  the 
like  effect  by  virtue  of  letters  patent  dated  13  February  last  directed  to  the 
said  Thomas,  Maurice  and  Edward  and  others. 

July  18.         Commission  to  Richard  George  and  William  Eustas,  Serjeants  at  arms, 

Westminster.  Richard  Rynglove,   William    Balle   and  the  sherifls  of  London  to  arrest 

Thomas  Huntyngdon,  chaplain,  John  Barton,  chaplain,  William  Shutford, 

John  Hewyk,  William  Witney  and  Thomas  Aleyn  and  bnng  them  before 

the  king  in  Cliancery. 

Aug.  10.        Commission  to  Thomas  Monyngton,  Thomas  Lygon  and  Thomas  Bru^e, 

Westminster,  escheator  in  the  county  of  Hereford,  to  take  into  the  king's  hand  all  the 

lands  of  which  Thomas  Holgot,  deceased,  tenant  in  chief,  was  seised  in 

his  demesne  as  of  fee  in  the  said  county,  and  to  enquii*e  what  lands  he 

held  in  the  naid  county,  and  how  much  they  are  worth  and  who  is  his  heir. 

Membrane  20d. 

May  20.  Commission  to  Robert  Clyfton,  knight,  William  Merynges,  John  Nevill 

Westminster,  and  Thomas  Nevill  of  Southleverton  to  deliver  the  gaol  of  Nottingham  of 
Henry  Lorde,  late  of  Estretford,  co,  Nottingham,  *  yoman '  alias  *  fyscher,' 
prisoner  there^ 


6  EDWARD  IV.— Part  II.  663 


1405.  Membrane  20(/— €oii/. 

June  6.  Commissiou  to  Henry  Gourteney,  Maurice  Berkelej,  John  Hamond^ 

Wettminster.  William  Nedeham,  William  Eustace,  one  of  the  king's  eeijeanU  at  arme, 
and  the  sherifiB  of  Surrey,  Sussex,  Southampton,  Somerset,  Dorset  and 
Wilts  to  enquire  into  a  report  that  a  ship  of  Arnold  Trussel  called  ie 
Martyn  of  Bayonne,  of  the  portage  of  180  tuns,  sailing  to  England  under 
letters  of  safe-conduct  of  the  king,  was  seized  by  certain  subjects  of  the 
king  and  taken  to  Portsmouth  and  despoiled  of  wines,  goods  and  other 
merchandise,  and  to  seiEe  the  said  wines,  goods  and  merchandise  and  arrest 
and  imprison  the  offenders. 

March  28.        Commission  to  Alured  Corneburgh,  Thomas  Berc,  Geoffrey  Kedcwelly 
Westminster,  and  Nicholas  Loure  to  enquire  what  lands  Oto  Colyn  held  in  the  county  of 

Cornwall  on  the  day  of  his  death,  how  much  they  are  worth,  who  is  his 

next  heir  and  who  has  occupied  them  since  his  death. 

Oct.  21.  Commission  to  John  Blount,  escheator,  and  John  Port  and  William 

Westminster.   Costenet,  coroners  in  the  couuty  of  Worcester,  to  enquire  into  the  report 

that  certain  ministers  of  the  king  in  that  county,  who  by  reason  of  their 

offices  ought  to  keep  assizes  of  wioes  aod   victuals,  traffic  in  the  eame 

contrary  to  the  statute. 

Mbmbranb  I9d, 

Oct.  28.  Appointment,  until  28  April    next,   of  Thomas  Dahimore  to  provide 

Westminster,  wheat  and  wooil  for  the  oven  of  the  household  and  al!  other  necessaries 
for  the  office  of  the  bakery  of  the  household. 

By  bill  of  the  treasurer  of  the  household. 

Oct.  29.  Commissiou  to  John  Howi|rd,  knight,  and  Laurence   Reynford,  knight, 

Westminster,  and  Nicholas  Sou thcotes,  esquire,  and  William  Eustai?,  esquire,  Serjeants 
at  arms,  and  the  bailifPs  of  the  towns  of  Ipswich  and  Orweli  to  seize  a  ship 
called  ie  ValetUyne  of  Ncwcastle-on-Tyne,  and  the  gear  of  the  same  and  to 
arrest  William  Bynl,  William  Blakeston,  Iloltert  Hardy,  Alan  Bynl  the 
younger,  George  a  Cliambrc,  Kilward  Blakeston,  Thomas  Bi'oun,  Thomas 
Lokwode,  Willinm  Kichardson,  Jolin  Coke  and  Gilbert  Youg  and  bring 
them  before  the  king  in  Chancery. 

Mbmbranb  \ld. 

Oct.  29.  Commi.«sion  to  John  Yong,  mayor  of  London,  Thomas  Ursewyk,  Thomas 

Westminster.  Burgoyne,  John  Baldewyn  and  William  Dunthom  to  enquire  into  a  peti- 
tion of  Hugh  Wyche,  knight,  citizen  and  alderman  of  London,  Richard 
Lee  and  Ralph  Verney,  citizens  and  aldermen  of  London,  Richard  Fouler 
and  John  Parker  concerning  certain  messuages  in  the  parishes  of  St. 
Christopher  by  les  Stokkys  and  St.  Peter  Ie  Poor  in  the  ward  of 
Bradstrete  and  St.  Peter,  Cornhill,  in  the  ward  of  Bisshopesgate.  {See 
p.  621.) 

Mbmbranb  \bd. 

Not.  28.  Commission  to  Thomas  Yonge,  serjeant  at  law,  William  Kuynon,  Thomas 

^Westminster.  Hasty nges  and  the  sheriff  of  Gloucester  to  enquire  concerning  all  reliefs, 
knights'  fees,  advowsons,  rents,  services,  customs,  forfeitures,  escheats, 
go<M8,  wards  and  marriages  belonging  to  the  king  by  reason  of  custodies  in 
tliat  county  and  detained  from  him  and  all  wastes  and  destructions  committed 
on  manors,  lands  and  possessions  belonging  to  the  king,  and  concerning 
all  officers  cf  the  king  in  the  county  who  have  been  rcmi.ss,  negligent  or 
non-resident,  and  concerning  all  extortions,  oppressions  and  other  offences 
committed  by  them.  By  K. 


554  CALENDAR  OF  PATENT  BOLLS. 


1466.  Membram  Ibd-^-conf. 

Not.  28.  Commiiision  to  Thomas  UvedalOy  knight,  Edward  (sic)  Berkeley,  esquire, 
Westminster.  Edward  Langford,  esquire,  Thomas  Well  is,  Nicholas  Suthcotes,  one  of  the 
king's  Serjeants  at  armH,  William  Nedham  and  the  sheriff  of  Southampton 
to  enquire  what  goods,  merchandise  and  gear  came  ashore  from  a  carrack 
of  Genoa  called  la  Sancta  Maria,  of  which  Christopher  John  was  master, 
which  was  wrecked  near  the  Isle  of  Wight,  and  into  whose  hands  they 
came,  as  the  king  understands  from  certain  merchants  of  Genoa  that  certain 
goods  came  ashore  and  wero  detained  by  certain  of  the  king's  lieges  after 
the  taking  of  inquisitions  to  the  like  effect  by  rirtue  of  letters  patent 
dated  13  February  last  directed  to  the  said  Thomas,  .Maurice  and  Edward 
and  others. 

Mbmbranb  12J. 

Nov.  13.         Commission  to  Richard   Harecourt,  knight,  and  John  Eyres  to  arrest 
Westminster.  Robert  Stokes  and  bring  him  before  the  king  in  Chancery. 

Nov.  14.  Commission  to  Walter  Blount  of  Mountjove,  knight,  and  the  sheriff  of 

Westminster.   Nottingham  and  Derby  to  arrest  Ralph  Saucheverell  and  bring  him  before 

the  king  in  Chanceiy  on  the  quinzaine  of  St.  Hilary  next,  because  he  wa? 

ordered  to  appear  at  a  certain  day  before  the  king  in  Chancery  but  did  not 

do  so  although  a  writ  was  delivered  to  him. 


555 


6  EDWARD  IV.— Part  111. 


1466,  Membranes  15  and  14. 

Jiil^r  6.  Inspeximus  and  confirmation  to  the  burgesses  of  the  town  of  Cambridge 

'WestmiDster.   of  letters  patent  dated  25  March,  15  Henry  VI.  inspecting  and  confirming 
the  following : — 

1.  Letters  patent  dated  8  December,  1  Richard  IL  inspecting  and  con- 

firming a  charter  dated  at  Westminster,  27  Novem'ner,  7  Edward  II. 
[Charter  Roll^  7  Edward  II.  No.  22,]  inspecting  and  confirming 
the  following : — 

(U^  A  charter  dated  at  Westminster,  21  April,  11  Henry  III. 
(2.)  A  charter  dated  at  Westminster,  24  November,  9  Edward  I. 
[Charter  Roll^  9  Edward  I.  No.  84,     inspecting  and  con- 
firming the  following : — 

a.  A  charter  dated  at  Westminster,  21  April,  11  Henrj  III. 
h.  A  charter  dated  at  Westminster,  1 1  April,  40  Henry  HI. 

2.  Letters  patent  dated  19  February,  6  Henry  IV.  inspecting  and  con- 

firming the  following : —       '  *  •  .    '  ' 

(1.)  A  charter  dated  at  Westminster,  9  December,  9  Richard  IL 

[Charter  Roily  9  and  10  Richard  IL  No.  19.] 
(2.)  Letters  patent  dated  28  February,  17  Richard  11, 

For  40f.  paid  in  the  hanaper. 

Mbmbrans  14 — cant. 

July  11.  Pardon   to   John   Grover  of  Cowfolde,  co.   Sussex,  'yoman,'  of  his 

Westminster,  outlawry  in  the  county  of  Sussex  for  not  appearing  before  the  king  to 
satisfy  him  of  his  ransom  for  not  holding  Edward  Pycombe  late  of  Twynam, 
CO.  Sussex,  *  husbondman/  and  Robert  Bury  of  Twynam,  *  husbondman,' 
before  the  late  king  at  a  certain  day  to  answer  William  Sonde,  John  Ledys, 
Richard  Profyte  and  Richard  Jay  on  a  plea  of  trespass,  as  he  made  main- 
prise, he  having  surrendered  to  the  Marshalsea  prison,  as  John  Markham, 
chief  justice  of  the  King's  Bench,  has  certified. 

Membranes  13  and  12. 

June  20.         Inspeximus  and  confirmation  to  the  abbot  and  convent  of  St.  Benet 
Westminster.    Hulme,  of  the  following : —  ' 

1.  Letters  patent  dated  3  June,  20  Richard  II.  inspecting  and  con- 
firming to  Simon,  then  abbot,  and  the  convent  the  following : 

(1.)  A  charter  dated  at  Jlxeter,  3  January,  14  Edward  I. 
[Charter  Roll^  14  Edward  I.  No.  46, J  inspecting  and 
confirming  the  following  : — 

o.  A  charter  (Latin  and  Saxon)  of  Edward  the  Confe^or. 
[Monasticottj  vol.  iii.  p.  83.] 


656  CALENDAR  OF  PATENT  ROLLS. 


1466.  Membranes  13  and  12— eont. 

b.  A  charter  of  Matilda  the  Empress  dated  at   Oxford 
1140.    [Ibid.  No.  xm.l 

c.  A  charter  of  Henrj  II.  dated  at  Westminster. 

d.  A    charter    dated     at     Westminster,     7     October,      1 
Richard  I. 

(2.)  A  charter  dated  at  Westrn'oster,  6  May,  37  Henry  III. 

[Ibid.  No.  xxiv.'\ 
(3.)  Letters  patent  dated  29  May,  33  Edward  I. 
(4.)  A  charter  of  Henry  II.  dated  at  Waliingford  to  William, 

then  abbot. 
(5.)  Letters  patent  dated  18  May,  19  Edward  III. 
2?  Letters  patent  dated  8  July,  18  Richard  II.. granting  licence  for  the 
appropriation  in  mortmain  of  the  church  of  St.  Michael,  Berton 
Turfe  by  Smalbergh. 
3.  Letters  patent  dat^  25  November,  19  Richard  II.  granting  licence 
for  the  acquisition  in  mortmain  of  the  manor  of  Nefesherd,   co. 
Norfolk,  called  Burwodes  Mauer.     By  8  marks  paid  in  the  hanaper. 


MSMBRANBS    11    AND   10. 

July  14.  Inspeximui  and    confirmation  to   Thomas  Welles,  the  prior,   and  the 

Westminiter.   convent  of  the  Friars  Preachers  of  Langele  of  the  following  : — 

1.  Letters   patent    dated    24    May,    11    Richard    II.    inspectiog   and 

confirming  letters  patent  of  the  following  dates  : — 
20  December,  2  Edward  II. 
3  July,  8  Edward  II. 
8  November,  21  Edward  III. 
10  April,  32  Edward  lU. 
10  April,  32  Edward  III. 

2.  Letters  patent  dated  12  February,  17  Richard  II.  granting  in  frank 

almoin  to  the  prioress  and  convent  of  Dcrteford  the  advowson  of  the 
church  of  Wylye  by  Blaldok,  co.  Hertford,  for  the  use  of  the  said 
Friars  Preachers. 

3.  Letters  patent  of  the  same  date  granting  licence  for  the  acquisition  in 

mortmain  by  the  said  prioress  and  convent  of  the  advowson  of  the 
church  of  Great  Gaddesden,  co.  Hertford,  for  the  use  ^of  the  said 
Friars  Preachers. 

4.  Letters  patent  dated  24  April,  22  Richard  J  I.  granting  divers  manors 

and  lands  to  the  said  prioress  and  convent  for  the  use  of  the  said 
prior  and  convent  in  accordance  with  the  will  of  Edward  III. 
and  grant  to  them  in  (rank  almoin  of  a  park  called  ^  Home  Park '  and 
*  le  Frered  Wode '  and  a  wood  called  *  Chiperfeldwode '  with  trees, 
agistments  and  other  commodities  with  a  meadow  there  called  ^Freres 
Medewe,*  and  multure  of  their  grain  at  the  king's  mill  there  quit  of  toll 
and  without  pajment  with  free  fishery  in  the  king's  water  there,  to  hold  as 
freely  as  they  held  other  premises  in  the  times  of  Edward  U.  Edward  III. 
or  Richard  II.  For  \  mark  paid  in  the  hanaper. 

Membrane  10-^  cont. 

May  6.  Inspeximtu  and  confirmation  to  the  abbot  and  canons  of  Torre  of  letters 

Westmintter.   patent    dated    10   February,  3    Richard    II.  inspecting    and    confirming 

letters  patent  dated  21  Jane,  32  Edward  III.  inspecting  and  confirming  a 

charter  dated  at  Roche  Andely^,  22  May.  2  John.      [Monasiicony  vol.  vii. 

p.  925.]  For  40#.  paid  in  the  hanaper. 


6  EDWARD  IV.— Pabt  IU.  557 


\4QQ^  Membranes  9  axd  8. 

Nov.  6.  Itupeximut  and  confirmHtion  to  the  prior  and  conveat  of  Montacute  of 

Westminster,   letters  patent  dated  1  August,  4  Richard  IT.  inspecting  and  confiriDing  the 
following : — 

1.  A  charter  dated  at   Westminster,  27  June,  13  Edward  L  [Charier 

Roily   13   Edward    L  No,   43,]    inspecting  and    confirming    the 

following: — 

(1.)  A  chnrter  of  Henry  I. 

(2.)  Another  charter  of  the  same.    [MonaHicon^  vol.  v.  p.  166.] 
(3.)  A  charter  of  Henry  II.  dated  nt  Westminster.    [Ibid,  p.  167.] 
(4.)  Another  charter  of  the  same  dated  at  Windsor. 

2.  A  charter  dated  at   Reading,  6  Novomher,  37  Henry  III.  [Charter 

Bollf  37  Henry  III,  m.  8.]  For  40*.  paid  in  the  hanaper. 

Membrane  8 — coni, 

Nov.  15.         Inspeximui  and  confirmation  to  the'  burgesses  of  Helleston   of  letters 
Westminster,   patent  dated    12  February,  1  Richanl  II.  inspecting  and    confirming  a 
charter  dated  ai:  BothweJl,  6  December,  10  Edward  111.  [Charter  Roily 
10  Edward  III,  No.  6,]  inspecting  and  confirming  the  following ; — 

1.  A  charter  dated  15  April,  2  John. 

2.  A  charter  of  Richard,  king  of  the  Romans,  dated  at  Lannceston, 

6  January,  in  his  third  year.  For  1  mark  paid  in  the  hanaper. 

Membrane  7. 

Nov.  16.         Inspeximus  and  confirmation  to  the  citizens  of  Bath  of  letters  patent 
Westminster,   dated  1  Juno,  10  Henry  VI.  inspecting  and  confirming  letters  patent  dated 

24  November,  2  Henry  Y.  inspecting  and  confirming  letters  patent  dnted 

25  March,  1  Henry  IV.  inspecting  and  confirming  the  following: — 

1.  A  charter  dated  at  Dover,  7  December,  1  Richard  I. 

2.  Letters  patent  dated  0  March.  5  Richard  II.  inspecting  and  confirm- 

ing a  charter  dated  at  Westminster,  10  April,  14  Edwiird  III. 
[Charter  Roll,  14  Edward  III.  No.  36,]  inspecting  and  confirming 
with  additions  a  charter  dated  at  Havering  atte  Bower,  4  May, 
5  Edward  III.  [Charier  Roll,  6  Edward  III,  No,  63,]  inspecting 
and  confirming  a  charter  dated  at  Windsor,  12  March,  6  Edward  II. 
[Charier  Roll,  6  Edward  II.  No.  20],  inspecting  and  confirming 
a  chniter  dated  at  Gloucester,  24  July,  40  Henry  III. 

For  10  marks  paid  in  the  hanaper. 

1467,  Membranes  6  and  5, 

Feb.  23.  Ifupeximus  and  confirmation  to  the  abbot  and  convent  of  Quarre  of 

WofftmlnBter.  letters  patent  dated  20  November,  7  Richard  II.  inspecting  and  confirming  to 

John  Wynchestre,    then    abbot,  and  the    convent    letters    patent  dated 

3  February,  35  Edward  III.  inspecting  and  confirming  to  William,  then 

abbot,  and  the  convent  the  following : — 

1.  A  charter  of  Henry  II.  dated  at  Winchester.     [Monasticon,  vol  v 

p.  318.] 

2.  A  process  before  Edward  I.  concerning  the  rupture  of  a  writing  of 

Teabel  dc  Forlibus,  countess  of  Albemarle  and  Devon  and  lady  of  the 
Isle  of  Wight.     [Charter  Roll,  7  Edward  I.  No.  81.] 

3.  A  charter  datea  at  Caernarvan,  5  May,  12  Edward  I.  [Charter  Roll 

\2  Edward  L  No.  41.] 

4.  Divers  private  grants.  For  20*.  paid  in  the  hanaper. 


/ 


/ 


658  CALENDAR  OF  tATENT  ROLLS. 


X^QT^  MbMBRANBS  4  AND  3. 

Feb.  28.  InMpeximuM  and  confirmation  to  the  prior  and  conyent  of  Pontefract  of 

Wefltmiofter.    the  following  :— 

1.  A  charter  dated  at  York,  13  December,  6  Edward  III.  [Charter  Jloll, 

6  Edtcard  III.  No,  8,]  inspecting  and  confiriuing  a  charter  dated  at 
York,  20  Maich,  12  Edward  IL  [Charter  Roll,  12  Edward  11. 
No.  22,]  inspecting  and  coDfirming  the  following : — 
(1.)  A  charter  of  Henry  II.  dated  at  Northampton. 
(2.)  A  charter  dated  at  Lincoln,  8   January,  14   Henry  II L 
[Charter  Roily  14  Henry  III.  p,  2,  m.    1,]   inspecting   and 
confirming  a  charter  of  Henry  II.  dated  at  Northampton. 

2.  A  charter  dated  at  Westminster,  24  February,  6  Edward  I V.  [  Charter 

Roily  5-7  Edward  IV,  No.  8.]  For  20s.  paid  in  the  hanaper. 

Membranes  3-1. 

Feb.  26.  Inspeximus  and  confirmation  to  the  mayor  and  burgesses  of  the  town 

Westminster,    of  Newcastle  on  Tyne  of  the  following : — 

1.  A  charter  dated  at  Westminster,  27  April,  1  Henry  [V.  inspecting 

and  confirming  the  following  : — 

(I.)  Letters  patent  dated  9  April,.  1  Richard  II.  inspecting  and 
confirming  the  following : — 

a.  A  charter  dated  at  Westminster,  10  May,  31  Edward  IH. 
[Charter  Roily  31  Edward  III,  No.  6,]  inspecting  and 
confirming  with  additions  the  following : — 

(a.)  A  charter  dated  at  Westminster,  8  December,  22 
Edward  I.  [Charter  Roily  22  Edward  I.  No.  30,] 
inspecting  and  confirming  the  following  : — 

a,  A  charter  dated    at  Westminster,  2  July,  18 

Henry  IlL 
j9.  Letters  patent  dated  18  October,  36  Henry  III. 
(6.)  A    charter  ^ted    at   York,    12    November,    12 
Edward  II.  inspecting  and  confirming  with  additions 
a  charter  dated  at    Durham,  28  January,  17  John 
[Rotuli  CartarufUf  p.  219]. 

b.  A  charter  dated  at  York,  28  January,  7  Edward  III. 
[Charter  Roily  27  Edward  III.  No.  35.] 

(2.)  A  charter  dated  at  York,  20  December,  27  Edwam  I. 
[Charter  Roily  27  Edward  I.  No.  32.] 

(3.)  A  charter  dated  at  Westminster,  10  June,  1  Richard  II. 
[Charter  Roily  1  Richard  II.  No.  7 J  inspecting  and  confirm- 
ing letters  patent  dated  1  May,  45  Edward  III.  being  an 
exemplification  of  letters  patent  dated  20  October,  16 
Edward  HI.  inspecting  and  confirming  letters  patent  of  the 
commonalty  of  the  town  dated  the  Friday  before  St.  Valentine. 

(4.)  Letters  patent  dated  25  January,  14  Richard  II.  to  William 
Bisshoppesdale,  then  mayor. 

2.  Lettere  patent  dated    16  August,  4   Henry  IV.  granting   to  them 

certain  fines  and  amercements. 

3.  Letters  patent  dated ,  6  Edward  IV.  being  an  exemplification  of 

the  enrolment  of  the  following,  which  have  been  lost  by  accident,  as 
Robert  Fulbery,  recorder  of  the  town,  has  taken  oath  in  Chancery, 
and  will  be  surrendered  if  found : — 

(1.)  Letters  patent  dated  16  February,  19  Henry  VI.  inspecting 
and   confirming  a  charter  dated    at  Westminster,   23   May, 
1  Henry  IV.  [Charter  Roily  Henry  IV.  PaH  2,  No.  1.] 
(2.)  A  charter  dated  at  Shene,  11  July,  22  Henry  VI.  [Charter 
Roily  21-24  Henry  VL  No.  39.] 

For  20«.  paid  in  the  hanaper. 


559 


APPENDIX. 


COMMISSIONS  OF  THE  PEACE  AND  OF  ARRAY. 


Bedfordshire. 

1.  We^tIniIU)ter,  29  May,  1461.     I  Edward  IV.  Part  1.  m.  26</. 

2.  Westminster,  3  March,  1467.  6  „  ,»  m.  19</. 


John,  bishop  of  Lincoln,  1,  2. 
Bichard,  eai'l  of  Warwick  and  Salisbur)' 

1,2. 
Edmund  Gray  of  Ruthyn,  earl  of  Kent, 

1,2. 
John  Wenloky  knight,  1,  2. 
John  Broughton,  1,  2. 
John  Manyiigham,  1, 2. 
William  Herteshome,  1,  2. 
Philip  Harveys,  1,  2. 


Robert  Bothe,  1,  2. 
William  Pekke,  1,  2. 
John  Cokayn,  1,  2. 
WiUiam  Goldyngton,  1,  2. 
John  Laurence^  1. 
Peter  Ardem,  knight,  2. . 
Thomas  Billyng,  2. 
Thomas  Wylde,  2. 
Thomas  Reynes,  2. 
Richard  Godfray,  2. 


Berkshire. 

1.  Westminster,  28  February,  1463.  2  Edward  IV.  Part  1.  m.  2Qd. 

2.  Reading,  1  October,  1464.  4         „  „        m.  24</. 

3.  Westminster,  18  February,  1467.  6  „  „        m.  20rf. 


W.  bishop  of  Winchester,  1,  2,  3. 

R.  bishop  of  Salisbury,  1,  2,  3. 

John  Bourghchier  of  Beraers,  knight, 

1,  2,  3. 
John  Wenlok  of  Wenlok,  knight,  1, 

2,3. 
John  Byngham,  1. 
Richard  Choke,  1,  2,  3. 
Robert  Harecourt,  knight,  1,  2,  3. 
William  Lakyn,  1,  2,  3. 
John  Nores,  1,  2. 
Thomas  de  la  Marre.  Dalamere,  1,  2, 3. 


Thomas  Say,  1,  2,  3. 
Peter  Marmyon,  1,  2,  3. 
Thomas  Walron,  1,  2,  3. 
William  Dan  vers,  1,  2,  3. 
John,  duke  of  Suffolk,  2,  3. 
Richard,  earl  of  Warwick,  2,  3. 
Richard  Byngham,  2,  3. 
Thomas  Restwold,  2,  3. 
Humphrey  Forster,  2,  3. 
George,  duke  of  Chirence,  3. 
John  Howard,  knight,  3. 
William  Norreys,  knight,  3. 


B  UCKINGHAMSHIRE. 


1.  Westminster,  10  June,  1461. 

2.  „  20  July,  1461. 

3.  „  2  January,  1462. 
3.            „  16  June  1462. 

5.  „  19  March,  1403. 

6.  Reading,  1  October,  1464. 

7.  Westminster,  13  May,  1466. 


1  Edward  IV. 

Part  1. 

m.  25</. 

» 

>» 

„  23rf. 

» 

» 

„  21c/. 

2. 

» 

„  27rf. 

3.         „ 

iJ 

„  24rf. 

4. 

» 

„  24c/. 

6,          „ 

» 

„  24A 

r>6() 


Buckinghamshire —  co  n  t 


W.  bishop  of  Wiaclioster,  1,  2.  3,  4,  5, 

6,7. 
J.  bishop  of  Lincoln,  1. 
Bichard,  earl  of  Warwick,  1,  2,  3,  4,  5, 

6,  7. 
Edmund  Grey  of  Buthjn,  knight,  1,  2, 

8,  4,  5,  6, 7. 
Thomas  Billyng,  U  2,  3,  4,  6,  6,  7. 
'John  Brekenok^  1,  2,  3,  4,  5,  6,  7. 
Thomas  Bokes,  1,  2,  3,  4,  5,  6,  7. 
Edmund  Brudenell,  Bretnell,  1,  2,  3,  4, 

5,  6,  7. 
William  Fowler,  1,  2.  4,  5,  6,  7. 
Bichard  Fowler,  1,  2,  3,  4,  5,  6,  7. 
Thomas  Gifford,  1,  2,  3,  4,  6,  6,  ^J . 


Peter  Anlern,  knight,  2,  3,  4,  5,  6,  7. 
Thomas  Mongoroerj,  knight,  2,   3,  4, 

5,  6.  7. 
John  Djrhaoi,  Dirham,  2,  3,  4,  5, 6,  7. 
John  Wenlok    of  Wenlok,  knight,   3, 

4,  5,  6,  7. 
John  Nevill,  3,  4,  5,  6. 
John  Boteler  of  Badmynton,  4,  5,  (». 
G.  bishop  of  Exeter,  5,  6. 
Bobcrt  Ingleton,  5,  6,  7. 
Edmund  Bede,  5,  7. 
Bichard  Lovell,  6,  7. 
G.  archbishop  of  York,  7. 
Thomas  Hamp<len  of  Kembell,  7. 


Cambridgeshire. 


1.  Westminster,  4  July,  1461.  1  Edward  IV.  Part  1.  m.  22d. 


2. 

99 

6  May,  1462.           2 

99 

99 

„  26J. 

3. 

>9 

7  December,  1462. 

» 

9> 

„  25rf. 

4. 

>f 

18  May,  1463.         3 

» 

99 

„  23^. 

5. 

» 

28  May  1463. 

>» 

» 

„  22d, 

6. 

»f 

2  January,  1464.     4 

J> 

>» 

„  23d. 

w 
/. 

» 

5  February,  1466. 

»> 

W 

„  22cZ. 

8. 

» 

16  February  1466.  5 

>» 

•9 

„  28^. 

W.  bishop  of  Ely,  1,  2,  3,  4,  5,  6,  7,  8. 
Bichard,  earl  of  Warwick,  1,  2,  3,  4,  5, 

6,  7,  8. 
John,  earl  of  Oxford,  1,  8. 
John,  earl  of  Worcester,  1,  2,  3,  4,  o, 

6,  7,  8. 
John  Neville  of  Monntagu,  earl  of 

Northumberland,  1,  2,  3,  4,  6,  7,  8. 
John  Lescrope,  knight,  1,  2,  3,  4,  6, 

7,8. 
Peter  Ardern,  knight,  1,  2,  3,  4,  5,  6, 

7,8. 
Thomas  Billyng,  1,  2,  3,  4,  o,  6,  7,  8. 
William  Seyntgeorge,  knight,  1 ,  2,  3, 

4,  6,  7,  8. 
Thomas  Gray,  Grey,  1,  2,  4,  6,  7,  8. 
Bichard  Hatfeld,  1,  2,  3,  4,  6,  7,  8. 
Thomas  Peyton,  1,  2,  8,  4, 6,  7,  8. 
John  Cheyne,  knight,  1,   2,  3,  4,  6, 

7,8. 
Thomas  Burgoyn,  1,  2, 3,  4,  6,  7,  8. 


William  Haselden,  1,  2,  3,  4,  6,  7,  8. 
Thomas  Lokton,  1,  2,  3,  4,  6,  7,  8.     * 
William  Alyngton,   1,   2,   3,  4  5,  6, 

7,8. 
John  Ansty,  2,  3,  4,  6,  7,  8. 
William  Frevile,  3,  4,  6,  7,  8. 
Thomas  Bray,  3. 
Bichard  Eneseworth,  4,  6,  7,  8. 
J.  bishop  of  Lincoln,  5. 
Edmund  Grey  of  Buthyn,  knight,  6. 
John  Stukeley,  6. 
John  Knevett,  o. 
Walter  Taihird,  5. 
John  W^ake,  5. 
Henry  Gymber,  5. 
Gerard  de  la  Hay,  5. 
Bichard  Sapcote,  5. 
Henry  Torkyngton,  5. 
Henry  Chichele,  6, 7,  8. 
John  Girton,  7,  8. 
John  Alyngton,  8. 


rofTAT  o/'  Cambridge 


1.  Westminster,  11  July  1461.  1  Edwaid  IV.  Part  1.  m.  22d. 

2.  „  10  February,  1464.  3  „  „        „      22^. 

3.  „  20  January,  1465.     4  „  „        „      22d. 


4. 


99 


20  May,  1466. 


6 


w 


99 


» 


99 


99 


25J. 


561 


Town  of  Cambridge — cont 


Richard   Lescrop,    chancellor    of  the 

University,  1. 
Master   William   Askewe,    Ayscoughy 

1,2. 
„  master  of  the  house 

of  St.  Michael,  3,  4. 
Master  Thomas  Lane,  1,  2. 
John  Hesewell,  2. 

„  „         major  of  the  town,  1. 

Thomas  Burgojn,  1,  2,  8,  4. 
William  Alyngton,  1, 2,  3,  4. 
John  Bellon,  1,  3,  4. 

major  of  the  town,  2. 


n 


99 


Thomas  Hajerman,   Harem  an,  Heyr- 

man,  1,  2,  3. 
John  Bunne,  1,  2,  3. 
John  Bothe,  chancellor  of  the  Uni* 

versitj,  2. 
R.  bishop  of  Carlisle,  3,  4. 
William   Wolflete,    chancellor  of  the 

University,  3,  4. 
Robert  Cooper,  mayor  of  the  town,  3, 4. 
William  Tajlard,  3. 
John  Hasilden,  4. 
John  Girton,  4. 
John  Alplon  the  jounger,  4. 


Cornwall. 


1.  Westminster,  24  Februarj,  1462. 

18  Februarj,  1462. 
4  June,  1461. 
20  March,  1463. 
6  Julj,  1463. 

10  June,  1465. 

11  April,  1466. 
11  August^  1466. 
6  November,  1466. 
28  Januarj,  1467. 
9  April,  1466. 


2. 

3. 

4. 

5. 

6. 

* . 

8. 

9. 
10. 
11. 


n 

99 


G.  bishop  of  Exeter,  1,  2,  4,  5. 
Richard,  earl  of  Warwick,  1, 2,  4,  5,  6 

7,  8,  9,  10. 
Humphrej  Stafford  of  Suthwjk,  knight 

1,4,5,6,7,8,9,  10,  11. 
Nicholas  Ajssheton,  1,  2,  4,  5,  6. 
Walter  Mojle,  1,  2,  4,  5,  6,  7,  8,  9 

10. 
John  Colshnll,  1,  2,  3,  4,  5.  6,  7,  8,  9 

10,  11. 
John  Champemotf,  1,  2,  4,  5,  6,  7,  8 

9,  10,  11. 
Thomas  Bonevile,  1,  2,  3,  4,  5,  6,  7,  8 

9,  10,  11. 
Thomas  Clemens,  1,  2,  3,  4,  5,  6,  7,  8 

9,  10,  11. 

Thomas  Bero,  1,2,  3,  4,  5,  6,  7,  8,  9 

10,  11. 


1  Edward  IV.  Part  1.  m.  2l<f. 

21rf. 


3 

5 
6 


99 
99 
99 
99 
99 
99 
99 
99 
99 
99 


99 

99 

99 

99 

99 

99 

99 

99 

99 

99 


99 
99 
99 
99 
99 
99 
99 
99 
99 
99 


19rf.  Array, 
24J. 

30J. 
2Ad. 
23<f. 
22d. 
2\d. 
5d,  Array. 


Richard  Penpons,  1,  2,  3,  4,  5,  6,  7. 

Roger  Chami)emon,  3. 

Walter  Code,  3. 

William  Bere,  3,  9,  10. 

John  Eelegrewe,  3. 

William  Rosemodres,  3. 

Thomas  Trefrej,  3. 

William  Penfoun,  3. 

John  Arundell  of  Lanhern,  knighty  4, 

5,  6,  7,  8,  9,  10,  11. 
Alvred  Cornburgh,5,  6,  7,  8,  9,  10,  11. 
J.  bishop  of  Exeter,  6,  V,  8,  9,  10. 
Renfrid  Amndell,  knight,  6,  7,  8,  9, 11. 
George,  duke  of  Clarence,  7,  8,  9,  10, 

11. 
Thomas  Yonge,  8,  9,  10. 
William  Menwjnnek,  8,  9,  10. 
Thomas  Lucombe,  10. 


Cumberland. 


1.  Westminster,  20  November,  1461.    1  Edward  IV.  Part  1.  m.  22d. 

„     I9d.  Array. 

3.  „      6  December,  1463.  3        „  „  „     2ld. 

4.  Westminster,  10  Februarj,  1466. 


3 


99 
99 
9» 


99 
99 
99 


99 


99 


28d. 


Richard,  earl  of  Warwick,  1,  2,  3,  4. 
John  Neville  of  Mountagne,  earl  of 

Northumberland,  1,  2,  3,  4. 
John  Nedeham,  1,  3,  4. 

u    86914. 


Thomas  Litelton,  1,  3,  4. 
John  Hudleston,  knight,  1,  2,  3,  4. 
Thomas  Cur  wen,  Corwen,  knight,  1, 
3,4. 


N  K 


562 


CamJberland — co^it. 


Nicholas  Ridle,  1,  3.  I 

Robert  Carlile,  1,  3,  4. 
Bichard  Salkyll,  Salkeld,  1,  3.  ! 

„  „       sheriff  of  the  county ,2.  • 

Hugh  Louther  the  elder,  ly  3,  4. 
Ro&rt  Warcop  the  elder,  1,  3. 
Kichard  Muigrave,  knight,  2. 


Richard  Mu&grave  the  younger,  I^  3,  4. 

Thomas  Parre,  knight,  2. 

Thomas  Middelton,  2. 

Henry  Fitz  Hugh,  knight,  3,  4. 

Richard  Beaulieu,  3,  4. 

G.  archbishop  of  York,  4. 

R.  bishop  of  Carlisle,  4. 


Derb  yshire. 


1.  York,  10  May,  1461. 

2.  Westminster,  2  March,  1463. 

3.  „  20  May,  1462. 

4.  „  1  April,  1463. 

5.  „  18  February,  1467.    6 

6.  „  3  March,  1467. 


1  EdwM-d  IV. 

Part  1. 

m.  \9d.  Array 

2         „ 

99 

„  26c/. 

99 

99 

„  2bd. 

3    •      „ 

99 

9,  24(/. 

6 

99 

9,  22J. 

99 

99 

,9  19^. 

Richard,  earl  of  Wai'wick,  1,  2,  3,  4, 

5,6. 
John  Andeley  of  Audeley,  1. 
Humphrey  Bimrgchier,  1. 
Humphrey   Bourgchier   of   Cromwell, 

knight,  2,  3,  4,  5,  6. 
William     Hastynges    of     IJustynges, 

knight,  1,  2,  3,  4,  5,  6. 
Walter  Blount,  1. 
Walter  Blount  of  Mountjoye,   knight, 

2,  3,  4,  6,  6, 
Nicholas  Fitz  Herbert,  1,  2,  3,  4,  6. 
John  Pole,  1. 
John  Tunstede,  1,3. 
The  sheriff,  1. 


W.  archbishop  of  York,  2,  3,  4. 

Robert  Danby,  knight,  2,  3,  4,  5,  6. 

John  Nedeham,  2,  3,  4,  5,  6. 

John  Greseley,  2,  3,  4,  5,  6. 

John  Bothe,  2,  3,  4,  5,    6. 

Nicholas  Stathom,  2,  3,  4,  5,  6. 

James  Hopwode,  2,  3,  4. 

Thomas  Folgeham,  2,  4,  5,  6. 

Thomas  Fraunceys,  2,  4,  5,  6. 

Henry   Grev   of  CoduDre,    knight,    4, 

5,  6.    ^ 
G.  archbishop  of  York,  5,  6. 
John,  earl  of  Shrewsbury,  5,  6. 
George,  duke  of  Clarence,  6. 
William  Blount,  6. 


Devonshire. 

1.  Westminster,  4  July,  1461.  1  Edward  IV.  Part  1.  m.  26rf. 

„  26c?. 


6  June,  1461. 
6  June,  1461. 
3  November  1461. 
27  February,  1462. 
6  June,  1461. 
27  June,  1463,         3 
15  February,  1464. 
9.  Wycombe,  16  October,  1464.        4 

10.  Westminster,  27  May,  1465.        5 

11.  „  16  October,  1466.    6 

12.  „  18  November,  1466. 


2. 
3. 
4. 

5. 
6. 

7. 
8. 


99 
99 
>9 
99 
99 
99 
99 


13. 


9  April,  1466 


G.  bishop  of  Exeter,  1,  2,  3,  4,  5,  7,  8, 

9,  10. 
Bichard,  earl  of  Warwick  and  Salisbury, 

1,2,3,4,5,7,8,9,10,  11,  12. 
William  Bourgchier  of  Fitz  Wareyn, 

knight,  1,2,4,  «,  6,  7,  8,  9,  10,  11, 

12,  13. 


99 

99 

99 

99 

» 

99 

99 

9> 

99 

99 

99 

99 

99 

99 

99 

99 

99 

99 

99 

99 

39 

99 

»9 

99 

.,  2bd. 

„  22A 

„  21rf. 

„  19rf.  Array, 

„  2Zd. 

99  22€?. 

„  23cf. 

99  31rf. 

„  2Zd. 

9,  22c?. 

„  6d.  Array. 


Nicholas  Ayssheton,  1,  2,  3,  4,  5,  7,  8, 

9  10. 
Walter  Moyle,  knight,  1,  2,  3,  4,  6,  7, 

8,9,  10,  11,  12. 
Philip  Courtenay,  knight,  1, 2, 4,  5, 6,7. 
John  Dynham,  1,  2,  4,  5, 6,  7,  8,  9, 10, 

11,  12. 


563 


Devonshire — cont 


Roger  Ghftmpemoun,  1,  2,  3. 
Walter  Ralegh,  1,  2,  4, 5,  6,  7,  B,  9. 
John  Gifford,  1,  2,  4, 5,  7,  8,  9,  10,  1 1, 

12,  13. 
John  More,  1,  2,  4,  5,  7,  8. 
Thomas  Dowerissh  the  younger,  1,4,  6. 
John  Orchard,  1, 2, 4,  5,  7, 8,  9, 10,  11, 

12, 13. 
John  Colshull,  knight,  3. 
Thomas  Bonevjle,  3. 
Thomas  Clemens,  3. 
Thomas  Bere,  3. 
Richard  Pempons,  3. 
Hnmphrej     Stafford     of      Suthwyk, 

knight,  5,  7,  8,  9,  10,  11,  12,  13. 
John,  abbot  of  Tavjstok,  6,  7, 8, 9,  10, 

11,  12. 
Charles  Dynham,  6. 


William  Champernouo,  6. 

John  Champernoun,  4,  5, 7, 8,  9, 10, 11, 

12,  13. 
Thomas  Dowerysshe,  7,  8,  9,   10,  11, 

12,  13. 
Henrj  Webber,  dean  of  Exeter,  8,  9, 

10,  11,  12. 

William  Courtenay,  knight,  8,  9,   10, 

11,  12,  13. 

John  Denys,  9,  10,  11,  12,  13. 
Henry  Pomeray,  10,  11,  12,  13. 
J.  bishop  of  Exeter,  11,  12. 
George,  duke  of  Clarence,  11,  12,  13. 
Thomas  Yonge,  11,  12. 
Philip  Beaumont,  11,  12. 
William  Shillyuford,  12. 
Richard  Chichestre,  13. 


DORSETSHIRE. 


I.  Westminster,  14  July,  1461. 

1  Edward  IV. 

Part  1. 

m.  23^. 

2.            „            15  June,  1463. 

3 

)9 

»9 

„  22cf. 

3.         „            8  April,  1465. 

5 

» 

„  32<f. 

4.             „             1  July,  1465. 

U 

„  31<f. 

6.             „            30  May,  1465. 

fj 

„  30<f. 

6.            „            20  February,  1466. 

» 

„  2M. 

7.            „             15  July,  1466. 

6 

» 

„  20d. 

8.            „            9  April,  1466. 

» 

„     5c?.  Array, 

B.  bishop  of  Salisbury,  1,  2,  3,  4,  5, 

6,7. 
Richard,  earl  of  Warwick,  1,  2,  3,  4,  5, 

6,7. 
John  de  Aadeley,  1. 
John    Stonrton  of   Stonrton,  knight, 

1,2. 
Humphrey  Stafford  of  Suthwyk,  knight, 

1,  2,  3, 4,  5,  6,  7,  8. 
Nidiolas  Ayssheton,  1, 2,  3,  4,  5,  6. 
Walter  Moyle,  knight,   1,  2,  3,  4,  5, 

6,  7. 
William  Stourton  of  Stourton,  knight, 

1,  2,  3,  4,  5,  6,  7,  8. 


William  Caraunt,  1,  2,  3,  4,  5,  6,  7. 
John  Neuburgh,  1,  2,  4,  6,  7,  8. 
William  Brounyng,  1,  2,  4,  5,  6,  7,  8. 
John  Stork,  1,  2,  3,  4,  5. 
William  Cayleway,  Ei&yleway,  1,  2,  3, 

4,  5,  6,  7,  8. 
Thomas  Huse,  1,  2,  3,  4,  5,  6,  7,  8. 
John  Audeley  of  Audeley,  knight,  2, 3, 

4,  5,  6,  7,  8. 
John  Fyloll,  FiloU,  3,  4,  5,  6,  7,  8. 
George,  duke  of  Clarence,  6,  7,  8. 
John,  earl  of  Worcester,  6,  7,  8. 
Thomas  Yonge,  7. 


Essex. 

1.  Westminster,  14  July,  1461.  1  Edward  IV.  Part  1.  m.  2Zd. 

2.  „  28  October,  1461. 

3.  ,j  1  March,  1463.         2 

4.  ,y  20  March,  1462. 

5.  Northampton,  20  January,  1464.   3 

6.  Westminster,  24  November,  1464.  4 

7.  Wycombe,  18  November,  1464. 

8.  Westminster,  30  May,  1465.  5 

9.  „  5  November,  1465. 
10.            „  12  November,  1465. 


» 

99 

„22rf. 

f» 

99 

„  26rf. 

» 

» 

„  2bd. 

M 

W 

„  2ld. 

» 

99 

„  28d. 

» 

99 

„2W. 

9f 

99 

,9     0\}0» 

W 

99 

„    uilO. 

»» 

99 

„  dOd. 

Hi  K  2 

564 


Essex — conL 


Thomas,  bishop  of  London,  1,  2,  8,  4, 

5,  6,  7,  8,  9,  10. 
William,  bishop  of  Ely,  1,  2,  3,  4,  6,  6, 

7,  8,  9,  10. 
Richard,  earl  of  Warwick,  1,  2,  3,  4,  6, 

6,  7,  8,  9,  10. 
John,  earl  of  Oxford,  1,  2,  6,  8,  9,  10. 
Henry,  earl  of  Essex,  1,  2,  3,  4,  5,  0, 

7,  8,  9,  10. 
William  Bourghchier,  knight,  1,  2,  3, 

4,  6,  6,  7,  8,  9,  10. 
Peier  Ardem,  knight,  1,  2,  3,  4,  5,  6, 

7,  8,  9,  10. 
William  Yelverton,  knight,  1,  2,  3,  4,  ! 

5,  6,  7,  8,  9,  10. 
Bobert  Danvers,  knight,  I,  2,  3,  4,  5, 

6,  7,  8,  9,  10. 
Thomas  Mongomery,  knight,  1,  2,  3, 

4,  5,  6,  7,  8,  9,  10. 
John  Doreward  the  elder,  1,  2,  4. 
Thomas  Colt,  1,  2,  3,  4,  5,  6,  7,  8,  9, 

10. 


John  Grene,  1,  2,  3,  4,  5,  6,  7,  8,  9, 10. 
Roger  Ree,  1,  2,  3,  4,  5,  6,  7,  9,  10. 
John  Tey,  1 ,  2,  3,  4. 
Walter  Wiiifcll,  Wrettell,  1,   2,  3,  4,  5, 

6,  7,  8,  9,  id. 
Thomas  WoUlcy,  1,  4. 

Matthew  Hay,  2,  3,  4,  5,  6, 7,  8,  9,  10. 
Thomas  Tyrell,  knight,  3,  4,  5,  6,  7,  8, 

9,  10. 
Nicholas  Sharp,  3,  5,  6,  7,  8,  9,  10. 
Thomas  Coke,  knight,  3.  4,  5,  6,  7,  8, 

9,  10. 
William  Grene,  3,  4,  6,  6,  7,  8,  9,  10. 
John  Ingoldesby,  3,  5,  6,  7,  8,  9,  10. 
William  Pyrton,  Pirton,  knight,  5,  6, 

7,  8,  9,  10. 

Robert  Darcy,  knight,  6,  7,  8,  9,  10. 
Laurence  Reynford,  knight^  8,  9. 
Louis  John,  10. 


Oloucestershire, 


1.  Westminster,  1  March,  1462.  1 

2.  „  30  March,  1462.        2 

3.  York,  10  June,  1464.  4 

4.  Wycombe,  20  October,  1404.^ 

5.  Wc8{min8ter,  15  December,  1464. 

J.  bishop  of  Worcester,  1,  2,  3,  4,  6. 
Richard,  earl  of  Warwick,  1,  2,  3,  4,  5. 
William,  earl  of  Arundel,  J ,  2,  3,  4,  5. 
James  Berkeley,  knight,  1,  2. 
Ralph  de  Sudeley,  knight,  1,  2,  i5,  4,  5. 
John  Beauchamp  of  Powyk,  knight, 

1,  2,  3,  4,  5. 
Walter  Devereux  of  Ferrers,  knight, 

1,  2,  3,  4,  6. 
William  Herbert  of  Herbert,  knight, 

1,  2,  3,  4,  5. 
Richard  Byngham,  1,  2,  3,  4,  5. 
Richard  Choke,  1,  2,  3,  4,  5. 
Richard  Beauchamp,  1,  2,  3,  4,  5. 
Thomas  Herbert,  1,2,3,  4,  5. 


Edward  IV.  Part  1.  m.  21d. 

„   2bd. 
„    24d. 

23<f.  (twice) 
2Zd. 


99 
99 

99 
9» 


99 
99 

99 


99 
99 


Maurice  Berkeley  of  Beverston,  1,  2, 

4,  5. 
William  Notyngham,  1>  2,  3,  4,  5. 
Thomas  Yonge,  1,  2,  3,  4,  5. 
Giles  Brigge^  1,  2,  3,  4,  5. 
Walter  Lan^ley,  1,  2,  3,  4,  5. 
Roger  Kemys,  1,2,  3,  4,  5. 
John  Gise,  Gyse,  1,  2,  3,  4,  5. 
John  Huggeford,  Hoggeford,  1,  2,  3, 

4,5. 
William  Berkeley  of  Berkeley,  knightp 

3,  4,  5. 
William  Whityngton,  3,  4,  6. 
Thomas  Lymeryk,  5. 


Herefordshire. 


1.  Westminster,  17  July,  1461. 


1  Edward  IV.  Part  1.  m.  23</. 


2. 

99 

10  February,  1462. 

99 

99 

99 

21<f. 

3. 

99 

8  June,  1463.             3 

99 

99 

99 

23<f. 

J.  bishop  of  Hereford,  1,  2,  3. 
Richard,  earl  of  Warwick,  J,  2,  3. 
Walter  Devereux  of  Ferrers,  knight,  1, 
2,3. 


William  Herbert  of  Herbert,  knight^ 

1,  2,  3. 
Richard  Byngham,  1,  2,  3. 
Richard  Chokke,  1,2,3. 


565 


Herefordshire — cont. 


James  Baskervile,  1,  2,  3. 
Eustace  Whitteney,  1,  2,  3. 
Thomas  Bromwiche,  1,  2,  3. 
John  Welford,  1,  2,  3. 
Thomas  Brugge  of  Rosse,  1,  2,  3. 


John  Kene,  1,  2,  3. 
John  Milewater,  2,  3. 
John  "Wynne,  2,  3. 
Makelin  Walweyn,  3. 


Her  tfordshibk 

1.  Westminster,  14  July,  1461.  1  Edward  IV.  Part  I.  m.  22d. 

2.  Beading,  3  October,  1464.  4      „  „        „    24d. 

3.  Westminster,  20  February,  1465.  „  „        „    23d. 

4.  „  28  March,  1465.        5       „  „        „    Z2d. 

5.  „  18  November,  1465.  „  „         „    27 d. 


Th.  bishop  of  London,  1,2,  3,  4,  5. 
G.  bishop  of  Exeter,  1,  2,  3,  4. 
Richard,  earl  of  Warwick,  1,  2,  3,  4,  5. 
John  NoYille^  earl  of  Northumberland, 

1,  2,  3,  4,  6. 
William  Yelverton,  knight,  1, 2, 3,  4,  5* 
Robert  Danvers,  knight,  1,  2,  3,  4,  5 
John  Clay,  knight^  1. 
John  Say,  knight,  1,  2,  8,  4,  5. 
John  Leuthorp,  Leventhorpe,  1,  2,  3, 

4,6. 
Ralph  Gray,  1,  2. 
Nicholas  Morley,  1 . 


George  Danyell,  1,  2,  3,  4,  5. 
Edmund  Westley,  Westby,  1,  2, 3, 4, 5. 
Thomas  Broket,  1,  2,  3,  4,  5. 
William  Bastard,  1 . 
John  Wenlok  of  Wenlok,  knight,  2,  3, 

4,5. 
Thomas  Grozton,  2,  3,  4. 
William  Brayn,  2,  3,  4,  5. 
Henry  Barley,  2,  3,  4,  5. 
Thomas  Edward,  4,  5. 
G.  archbishop  of  York,  5. 
Thomas  Leventhoi'p,  5. 
John  Pulter,  5. 


Huntingdonshire. 


1.  Westminster,  20  July,  1461. 

2.  „  7  January,  1462. 

3.  Wycombe,  11  November,  1464.     4 

4.  Westminster,  20  April,  1465.        5 

5.  „  25  July,  1466.  6 

J.  bishop  of  Lincoln,  1,  2,  3,  4,  5. 
W.  bishop  of  Ely,  1,  2,  4,  5. 
Richard,  earl  of  Warwick,  1,  2,  3,  4,  5. 
John,  earl  of  Worcester,  1,2,  3,  4,  5. 
Edmund  Gray  of  Ruthyn,  earl  of  Kent^ 

1,  2,  3,  4,  5. 
Peter  Ardem,  knight,  1,  2,  3,  4,  5* 
Thomas  Billyng,  1,  2,  3,  4,  5. 
John  Stucle,  1,  2,  3,  4,  5. 
John  Knyvet,  1,  2,  3,  4,  5. 
Walter  Taillard,  Tnylard,  1,  2,  3,  4,  5. 


1  Edward  IV.  Part  1.  m.  22d. 

2ld. 


91 


if 

99 

99 


99 


99 


23d. 
„  31c/. 
„   23d. 


Henry  Gymber,  1,  2,  3,  4,  5. 
Gerard  de  la  Hay,  1,  2,  3,  4. 
Richard  Sapcote,  1,  2,  3,  4,  5. 
Honry  Thorkyngton,   Torkyngion,   1, 

2,  3,  4,  5. 
John  Wake,  2,  3,  4,  5. 
William  Alyngton,  3,  4,  5. 
William  Tayhird,  4,  5. 
George,  duke  of  Clarenct*,  5. 
John  Forster,  5. 


Kent. 

1.  Westminster,  12  July,  1461.  1  Edward  IV.  Part  1.  m.  24d. 

2.  York,  10  May,  1461.  „  „  „  I9d.  Array. 

3.  Westminster,  23  February,  1462.  „  Part  4.  m.  22d.  Array. 

4.  Reading,  27  September,  1464.       4  „  Part  1.  m.  24rf. 

5.  Westminster,  26  August,  1465.     5  „  „  „  30A 


566 


KeyH — cont. 


Th.  archbishop  of  Canterbury,  1,3,  4, 

6. 
Th.  bishop  of  London,  1,  4,  5. 
J.  bishop  of  Boehester,  1,  4,  5. 
Eichard,  earl  of  Warwick,  J,  4,  5. 
Edward  Neville  of  Bergevenny,  knight, 

1,  3,  4,  5. 
William  Fenys  of  Say  of  Sele,  knight, 

1,  3,  4,  5. 
John  (le  Olynton,  knight,  1,  3,  4. 
Robert  Dan  vera,  1,  4,  5. 
Walter  Moyle,  1,  4,  5. 
William  Laken,  1,  4,  5. 
William  Pecehe,  kidght,  1,  2,  4,  5. 
John  Fogge,  knight,  I,  3,  4,  5. 
John  Scot,  knight,  1,  3,  4,  5. 
John  Clerk,  1,  4,  5. 
John  Gyldeford,  Gilford,  1,  2,  3,  4. 
William  Kene,  1,  2,  3,  4,  5. 
John  Howe,  1,  2,  3,  4,  5. 
Nicholas  Sybill,  1,  2,  3,  4. 
John  Bromston,  Bramston,  ly  4,  5. 
William  Crofton,  1,  4,  5. 
Robert  Martyn,  1,  2,  3,  4,  6. 


Thomas  Mareschall,  1,  4. 

William  Haute  the  yonnger,  2,  3. 

John  Dyggys,  2,  3. 

Ralph  Seyntleger,  2. 

WilUam  Darell,  2. 

Edward  Millys,  2. 

Richard  Elys,  2. 

Thomas  Ballard,  2,  3. 

William  Swan,  2,  3. 

Richard  Culpeper,  2,  3. 

Richard  Waller  the  younger,  2. 

James  Pekham,  2,  3. 

John  Bamme,  2,  .3. 

Alexander  Clyfford,  2,  3. 

John  Norwode,  2,  3. 

John  Clyfford,  2,  3. 

Edmund  Chertesey,  2. 

John  Isaak,  3. 

Thomas  Seynt  Nicholas,  3. 

Richard  Watler,  3. 

Thomas  Vaughan,  4,  5. 

William  Haute,  4,  5. 

John  Colpepir,  5. 

William  Norton,  5. 


LEICESTERSHIRE. 

1.  Westminster,  16  July,  1461.     1  Edward  IV.  Part  1.  m.  23rf. 

2.  „  5  April,  1464.     4        „  „  „     25rf. 


w 


n 


99 


J.  bishop  of  Lincoln,  1,  2. 

Richard,  earl  of  Warwick,  1,  2. 

William  Hastynges  of  Hastynges, 
knight,  1,  2. 

John  Bourgchier,  knight,  1,  2. 

William  Sutton,  knight,  master  of  the 
hospital  of  Burton  St.  Lazarus  of 
Jerusalem  in  England,  1^  2. 

Robert  Danby,  knight,  1,  2. 


John  Nedeham,  1^  2. 

Thomas  Wasshe,  1,  2. 

Thomas  Palmer,  1,  2. 

John  Boy  vile,  1,  2. 

Richard  Neele,  1,  2. 

John  Pulteney  of  Misterton,  1,  2. 

Richard  Hastynges,  2. 

Robert  Staunton,  2. 


Lincolnshire. 

The  Pabts  of  Holland. 


1.  Westminster,  7  June,  1461. 

2.  York,  10  May,  1461. 

3.  Westminster,  4  February,  1466.  5 

4.  „  9  February,  1467.  6 

.7.  bishop  of  Lincoln,  1,  8,  4. 
Richard,  earl  of  Warwick,  1,  3,  4. 
Richard  Fenys  of  Dacre,  knight,  1,  4. 
Humphrey  Bourgchier  of    Cromwell, 

knight,  1,  2,  3,  4. 
Robert  Danby,  knight,  1,  8,  4. 
Peter  Ardern,  knight,  1. 
Thomas  Burgh,  knight,  1,  2,  3,  4. 
Richard  Welby,  1,  3,  4. 
Richard  Pynchebek,  1,  2,  3,  4. 
John  Pynchebek,  1,  3,  4, 


1  Edward  IV.  Part  I.  m.  25d. 

„  I9d.  Array, 
„  27d, 
„  I9d. 


99 


»> 


9» 


99 


9» 


ft 


Leonard  Thornburgh,  1,  ?,  3,  4. 
Richard  Fendyk,  1,  3,  4. 
Thomas  Meres  the  elder,  2. 
George,  duke  of  Clarence,  3,  4. 
Richard  Welles  of  Willoughby,  knight, 

3,4. 
John  Nedeham,  knight,  3,  4. 
Robert  Dokkyng,  3,  4. 
William  Paynell,  3,  4. 
Thomas  Meer^.  4. 


567 


Lincclnahire—cont 

The  Pabts  of  Kesteven. 

1.  Westianstor,  20  September,  1461.   1  Edward  IV.  Pari  1.  m.  22d. 

2.  York,  10  May,  1461. 

3.  Pontefract,  20  November,  1463. 

4.  Stamford,  12  Angnst,  1464. 

5.  Westminster,  14  February,  1465. 


3 
4 


99 


9f 

„  I9d.  Array. 

99 

99     2W. 

>» 

,.  2^d. 

99 

„  23<f. 

J.  bishop  of  Lincoln,  1,  3,  4,  5. 
Richard,  earl  of  Warwick,  1,  3,  4,  5. 
Humphrey  Bourgchier  of   Cromwell, 

knight,' 1,2,  3,  4,  5. 
John  Markham,  knight,  I,  3,  4,5. 
Robert  Danby,  knight,  1,  3,  4.  5. 
John  Nedeham,  1,  «3,  4,  5. 
Nicholas  Bowet,  knight,  1,  2,  3,  4,  5. 
William  Husee,  1,  3,  4,  5. 
Nicholas  Misterton,  1,  3,  4,  5. 
Richard  Walcote,  1,  3,  4,  5. 


Simon  Hareby,  1 ,  2,  3,  4,  5. 

Thomas  Burgh,  knight,  2,  3,  4,  5. 

Thomas  Meres,  2. 

Richard  Sacote,  2. 

Thomas  Wymbyssh,  3,  4,  5. 

William     Hastynges    of    Hastynges, 

knight,  3,  4,  5. 
Henry  Stafford,  knight,  4,  5. 
Richard  Welby,  4,  5. 
William  Coote,  5. 


1.  Boston,  16  May,  1461. 

2.  Westminster,  3  July,  1461. 

3.  York,  10  May,  1461. 

4.  Westminster,  20  February,  1463.   2 

5.  .,  4  February,  1467.     6 


The  Parts  of  Lindsey. 

1  Edward  IV.  Part  1.  m.  25<f. 

„         „  19</.  Array. 
„  26J. 


9> 
99 


99 


» 


99 


99 


20d. 


J.  bishop  of  Lincoln,  1 ,  2,  4,  5. 
Richard,  earl  of  Warwick,  1,  2,  4,  5. 
Humphrey  Bourgchier    of  Cromwell, 

knight,  1,  2,  3,  4,  5. 
Robert  Danby,  knight,  1,  2,  4,  o. 
Peter  Ardern,  knight,  1,  2,  4,  5. 
William  Skipwith,  knight,  1,  2,  3,  4,  5. 
Robert  Constable,  knight,  1,  2,  3,  4.  5. 
Thomas  Burgh,  1,  2,  4,  5. 

„  ,  sheriff  of  the  county,  3. 

Thomas  Kyme,  1,  2,  3,  4,  5. 
John  Tailboys,  1,  2,  3,  4,  5. 
Thomas  Blunt,  Blount,  1,  2,  3,  i,  5. 
William  Neucombe,  1,  2,  3,  4. 
Richard  Fenys  of  Dacre,  knight,  2, 

4,5. 


Richard  Haunsert  of  Ouresby,  2,  4,  5. 
„  of  Southekelsey,  2, 

4,5. 
John  Nedeham,  4,  5. 
Thomas  Dymmok,  knight,  4,  5. 
Thomas  Moygne,  4,  5. 
John  Whythecote,  Whichecot,  4,  5. 
Thomas  Fitzwilliam  the  younger,  4,  5. 
Robert  Shefeld  the  younger,  4,  5. 
Richard  Welles  of  Wiloughby,  knight, 

5. 
Robert  Welles,  knight,  5. 
EEamo  Sutton,  5. 
Arthur  Ormesby,  5. 
Thomas  Knyght,  5. 


9y 

9i 


99 


„    3\d. 

„  30</. 
„  20c?, 


Middlesex. 

1.  Westminster,  18  September,  1461.     1  Edward  IV.  Part  1.  m.  22<f. 

2.  „  22  April,  1465.  5 

3.  Topcliffe,  4  December,  1465. 

4.  Westminster,  20  February,  1407.      6 

Th.  archbishop  of  Canterbury,  1,  2, 

3,4. 
Th.  bishop  of  London,  I,  2,  3,  4. 
G.  bishop  of  Exeter,  1,  2. 
Robert  Botyll,  prior  of  the  hospital  of 

St.  John  of  Jerusalem  in  England, 

1,  2,  3,  4. 
Robert  Danvers,  knight,  1,2,3,  4. 
Thomas  Charleton,  knight,  1. 
Henry  Prowyk,  1,  2,  3,  4. 


Thomas  Ive,  1,  2,  3,  4. 

William  Essex,  1,  2,  3,  4. 

John  Gloucestre,  1,  2,  3,  4. 

William  Mulsoo,  1,  2,  3,  4. 

John  Markham,  knight,  2,  3,  4. 

Thomas  Frowyk,  2,  3,  4. 

John  Wroth,  Worth,  2,  3,  4. 

G.  archbishop  of  York,  3,  4. 

John  Straunge  of  Straunge,  knight,  3. 

William  Chedworth,  4. 


568 


Norfolk, 


1.  Westminster,  4  July,  1461. 

2.  „  12  February,  1462. 

3.  „  23  November,  1^162.     2 

4.  „  2^  May,  1463.  3 

5.  Pontefract,  13  December,  1463. 

6.  Westminster,  8  April,  1464.  4 

7.  Wycombe,  28  October,  1464. 

8.  Westminster,  1  April,  1465.  5 

9.  „  20  February,  1466. 

10.  „  24  July,  1466.  6 

W.  bishop  of  Norwich,  1,  2,  3,  4,  5,  6, 

7,  8,  9,  10. 
W.  bishop  of  Ely,  1,  2,  3,  4,  5,  6,  7,  8, 

9,10. 
John,  duke  of  Norfolk,  1,  9,  10. 
Kichard,  earl  of  Warwick,  1,2,  3,  4,  5, 

6,  7,  8,  9,  10. 
John,  earl  of  Oxford,  1,  2,  8,  9,  10. 
Henry,  viscount  Bourgchier,   earl   of 

Essex,  1,  2,  3,  4,  5,  6,  7,  8,  9,  10. 
John  Neville  of  Mountagu,  earlof  North* 

umberland,  1,  2,  3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8,  9, 10. 
William  Yclverton,  knight,  1,  2,  3,  4, 

5,  6,  7,  8,  9,  10. 
William  Ghaumberleyn,  knight,  1,  2. 
Miles  Stapulton,  knight,  1,  2,  3,  4,  5, 

6,  8,  9,  10. 
Bob«rt  Conyers,  knight,  1,  2,  3,  4,  5, 

6,  7,  8,  9. 
William  Calthorp,  1,  2,  3,  4,  10. 
Edmund  Wythyngham,  Whityngham, 

1,  2,  3,  4,  5,  6,  7,  8,  9,  10. 
John  Fasten,  1,2, 3,  4,  5,  6,  7,  8,  9,  10. 
John  Twyer,  1, 2,  3, 4,  5,  6,  7,  8,  9,  10. 


1  Edward  IV.  Part  1.  m.  25rf. 

2\d. 


9) 
99 
99 
99 
99 
99 
99 
99 


„  26rf. 

„  23^. 

„  2ld. 

,,  25d. 

„  23</  (twice). 

„  32d, 

99  28rf. 
„  23rf. 


John  Jenney,  1,  2,  3,  4,  5,  6,  7,  8. 

John  Damme,  1,  2. 

Peter  Ardem,  knight,  2,  3,  4,  5,  6,  7, 

8,  9,  10. 
Thomas  BiUyng,  2,  8,  4,  5,  6,  7,  8,  9, 

10. 
John  Fyncham,  3,  3,  4,  5,  6,  7,  8,  9, 

10. 
Henry  Spilman,  3,  4,  5,  6,  7,  8,  9,  10. 
John  Andrewes,  4. 

John,  duke  of  Suffolk,  5,  6,  7,  8,  9,  10. 
John  Wykes,  5,  6,  7,  8,  9,  10. 
John  Knyvet,  6,  7,  8,  9,  10. 
William  Knyvet,  6,  7,  8,  9,  10. 
Antony  Wydevyle  of  Scales,  knight,  7, 

8,  9,  10. 
William  Paston,  8,  9,  10. 
James  Baskervyle,  8. 
George,  duke  of  Clarence,  9,  10. 
John  Howard,  knight,  9,  10. 
Robert  Wyngfeld,  knight,  9,  10. 
James  Arblaster,  9,  10* 
William  Lumnour,  iO. 
Roger  Towenesend,  10. 


NOB  THAMP  TON  SHIRE. 


1.  Westminster,  8  June,  1461. 


99 
99 
99 
99 
99 
99 
99 


16  July,  1461. 
10  July,  1461. 
1  March,  1463. 

4  October,  1462. 

5  April,  1464. 
15  May,  1465. 
18  June,  1465. 


2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 

6. 
7. 
8. 
9.  Scrobe,  25  January,  1466. 

J.  bishop  of  Lincoln,  1,  2,  3,  4,  5,  6, 

8,9. 
John,  duke  of  Norfolk,  1,  2,  3. 
Richard,  earl  of  Warwick,  1,  2,  3, 

5,  6,  7,  8,  9. 
Edmund  Grey    of    Ruthyn,    earl 

Kent,  1,  2,  3,  4,  5,  6,  7,  8,  9. 
William  de  la  Zouche,  knight,  1,  2, 

5,  6,  7,  8,  9. 
Robert  Danby,  knight,  1,  2,  3,  4,  5, 

7,  8,  9. 


1  Edward  IV.  Part  1.  m.  25c/. 

99  9.    23<f. 


4 
5 


79 

4, 
of 

4, 
6, 


99 
99 
99 
99 
99 
99 
99 
99 


99 

99 

22ff. 

99 

99 

26</. 

99 

99 

2bd. 

99 

99 

25d. 

99 

99 

3ld. 

99 

99 

'6\d. 

99 

99 

30c/. 

Peter  Ardem,  knight,  1. 
Thomas  Billinjr,  1,  2,  3,  4,  5,  6, 7,  8,  9, 
Thomas  Wake,  1,  2,  3,  6,  7,  8,  9. 
Robert  Ingleton,  1,  2^  3,  4,  5,  6,  7, 

8,9. 
Walter  Mauntell,  knight,  1,  2,  3,  4,  5, 

7,  8,  9. 
Roger  Salesbury,  1, 2,  3, 4,  5,  6,  7,  8,  9. 
John  Dyve,  1,  2,  3,  4,  5,  6,  7,  8,  9. 
William     Hastynges     of    Hastynges, 

knight,  2,  3,  4,  5, 6,  7,  8,  9. 


/ 


ti 


^9 


Nortlmmptonaliire — cont 


John  Nedeliam,  knight,  2,  3,  4,  o,  6, 

7,  8,  9. 
John  Pilkjngton,  2,  3,  4,  5,  6. 
Richard  Wydevill  of  Ryvere,  knight, 

4,  6,  7,  8,  9. 
Ralph  Hast3mges,  4,  5,  6,  7,  8,  9. 
Henry  Grene,  4,  6,  7,  8,  9. 
John  Doune,  Downe,  4|  5,  6. 


Robert  Tanfeld,  6,  7,  8,  9 

Henry  Skynnerton,  6,  7,  8,  9. 

William  Catesby,  knight,  7,  8,  9. 

John  Eltonhede,  7,  8,  9. 

Henry    Huddybton,     Hoildelitou,    7, 
'       8,9. 

Robert  Isham,  8,  9. 
!  Thomas  Tresham,  knight,  9. 


NOR  THUMBERLAND. 

1.  Wcstmineter,  10  December,  1461.     1  Edward  IV.  Part  I.  ra.  21rf. 

2.  York,  10  May,  1461. 

3.  Pontefract,  3  July,  1464. 

Richardy  earl  of  Warwick,  1,  2,  3. 
William  Neville  of  Fraucomberge,  earl 

of  Kent,  1,  2. 
Ralph  de  Graystok,  knight,  1,  2,  3. 
Thomas   Lomley  of  Lomley,  knight, 

I,  2,  3. 
Robert  Ogle  of  Ogle,  knight,  1,  2,  3. 
John  Nedeham,  1,  3. 
Thomas  Littelton,  1,  3. 
Gerard      Wodryngton,     Wydryngton, 

knight,  1,  2,  3. 


„  „         „    IM.  Array. 

99  >»  w  24a. 

Bertram  Harebotell,  1. 

Robert  Folbnry,  1,  3. 

Robert  Mitteford,  Mitford,  1,  3. 

John  Harebotell,  1,  3. 

William  Laweson,  1,  3. 

Brian     Harebotell,     sheriff    of 

county,  2. 
John,  earl  of  Northumberland,  3. 


the 


No  TTINQHAMSHIRE 

1.  Westminster,  10  July,  1461.  1  Edward  IV.  Part  I.  m.  23</. 

„  21i/. 
27rf. 
2bd. 
24<f. 
24</. 

22d. 
21c/. 


2. 

9> 

3. 

99 

4. 

» 

6. 

99 

6. 

W 

7. 

99 

8. 

99 

9. 

99 

99 
99 
99 
99 
99 
99 
99 
99 


99 

99 

99 

99 

99 

99 

99 

99 


99 
99 
99 
99 

99 
99 

99 


6  February,  1462. 

15  October,  1462.     2 

20  May,  1462. 

1  April,  1463.  3 

14  May,  1466.  6 

3  July,  1466. 

18  February,  1467. 

18  NoTember,  1466. 

W.  archbishop  of  York.  1,  2,  3,  4,  5. 
Richard,  earl  of  Warwick,  1,  2,  3,  4,  5, 

6,  7,  8,  9. 
Humphrey  Bourghchier  of  Cromwell, 

knight,  1,  2,  3,  4,  5,  6,  7,  8,  9. 
Robert  Danby,  knight,  1,  2,  3,  4,  5,  6, 

7,  8,  9. 
Richard  Byngham,  knight,  1,  2,3,  4,  5, 

6,  7,  ft  9. 
John  Nedeham,  knight,  1,  2,  3,  4,  5,  6, 

7,8,9. 
Robert  Clyfton,  knight,  1,  2,  3,  5,  6,  7, 

8,9. 
Robert  Strelley,  knight,  1,2,  8,  4,  5,  6, 

7,  8,  9. 
John  Stanehope,    1,  2,    3,  4,  5,  6,  7, 

8,9. 

Richard  Willughby,  1,  2,  3,  4,  5,  6,  7,  •  Gervase  Clifton,  esquire,  7,  8»  9. 

8,  9.                                                          '  John,  earl  of  Shrewsbury,  h. 
Thomas  Neyille  of  Bolleston,  1 ,  2, 3,  4,  Richard  Sutton,  8,  9. 

5,  6,  7,  8,  9.  I  Thomas  Molyneux,  8,  9. 


William  Merynges,  1,  2,  3,  4,  5,  6,  7, 

8,9. 
Thomas  Neville  of  Snth  Leverton,  1,  2, 

3,  4,  6,  6,  7,  8,  9. 
Robert  Markham,  knight,  2,  3,  5,  6,  7, 

8,9. 
William     Hastynges     of    Hastynges, 

knight,  3,  4,  5,  6,  7,  8,  9. 
Thomas  Burgh,  knight,  3,  4^  5,  6,  7, 

8,9. 
Robert  Caston  (Clifton),  knight,  4. 
Henry  Grey  of  Codnore,  knight,  5,  6, 

7,  8,  9. 
William  Babyngton,  .5,  6,  7,  8,  9. 
G.  archbishop  of  York,  6,  7,  8,  9. 
John  Neyille,  6,  7,  8,  9. 
George,  duke  of  Clarence,  7,  8, 9. 


570 


OXFORDSHIRE. 


2 

6 


1.  Westminster,  17  July,  1461, 

2.  „  28  October,  1462. 

3.  Penley,  18  August,  1466. 

G.  bishop  of  Exeter,  1,  2. 
G.  archbishop  of  York,  3. 
J.  bishop  of  Lincoln,  1,  2,  3. 
Richard,  earl  of  Warwick,  1,  2,  3. 
Ralph  Buttiller  of  Sudeley,  knighl,   I, 

2,3. 
Richard  Byogham,  1 ,  2,  3. 
Richard  Choke,  1,  2,  3. 
Robert  Harecourte,  knighl,  1,  2,  3. 
Richard  Quatermayne,  1,  2,  3 


1  Edward  IV.  Part  1.  in.  2%d, 


91 


9> 


„   27A 
„   2Zd. 


William  Marmyon,  1,  2,  3. 
Richard  Danyers,  1,  2,  3. 
John  Stokes,  1,  2,  3. 
Henry  Kayneford,  1,  2,  3. 
Kichsrd  Harocourt,  knight,  2,  3. 
William  Hoggeford,  2,  3 
John,  duke  of  Suffolk,  3 
Thomas  Stouer,  3. 
John  Anne,  3. 


Town  of  Oxford. 

Westminster,  20  July,  1461.     1  Edward  IV.  Fart  1.  m.  23rf. 

G.  bishop  of  Exeter,  chancellor  of  the  University,  Richard  Byngham,  Richard 
Chok,  John  Clerk,  mayor  of  the  town,  William  Marmyon,  Thomas  Walrond, 
Peter  Marmyon,  Richard  Spragot,  John  Dobbes,  William  Dagrile,  Thomas 
Foweler  and  William  Garnon. 


B  UTLANDSHIRE. 


1.  Westminster,  16  July,  1461. 

2.  ..  10  February,  1464. 


» 


1  Edward  IV.  Part  1.  m.  22d. 

..    2lrf. 


» 


J.  bishop  of  Lincoln,  1,  2. 
Richard,  earl  of  Warwick,  1,  2. 
William  de  la  Zouche,  knight,  1,  2. 
William     Hastynges     of    Hastynges, 

knight,  1,  2. 
Robert  Danby,  knight,  1,  2. 


John  Nedebam,  1,  2. 
Robert  Fenne,  1,  2. 
Thomas  Flore,  1,  2. 
John  Boyyile,  1,  2. 
Robert  Catesby  1,  2. 
Richard  Hotoft,  2. 


Shropshire. 


1.  Westminster,  8  June,  1461. 

2.  „  13  July,  1461. 

3.  „  12  February,  1462. 

4.  „  7  May,  1466.  6 

5.  „  11  March,  1466. 

J.  bishop  of  Coventry  and  Lichfield,  1, 

2,  3,  4,  5. 
Richard,  earl  of  Warwick,  1,  2,  3,  4,  5. 
William,  earl  of  Arundel,  1,  2,  3,  4,  5. 
John  Audeley  of  Audeley,  1,  2,  3,  4,  5. 
John  Sutton  of  Dudley,  knight,  I,  2,  3, 

4,5 
William  Bourghchier  of  Fitz  Waryn, 

knight,  I,  2,  3,  4,  5. 
Richard  Byngham,  1,  2,  3,  4,  o. 
Richard  Chok,  1,2,  3,4,5. 
Thomas  Littelton,  1,  2,  3,  4,  5. 
Hugh    Stapulton,    Stepulton,    1,  2,  3, 

4,5. 
John  Lnnlcy,  I,  2,  3,  1,  o. 
Nicholas  Eton,  1,  2,  3. 


1  Edward  IV.  Part  1.  m.  2bd. 

Ud, 


j> 


» 


2ld. 


,»  25^. 
„  24rf. 

William  Ludlowe,  1,  2,  3,  4,  5. 

Roger  Fox,  1,  2,  3. 

Ralph  Lee,  1,  2,  3,  4. 

Thomas  Corbet  of  Lyo,  1,  2,  3,  4,  5. 

Richard  Grey  of  Powys,  knight,  2,  3, 

4,5. 
Roger  Kynaston,  2,  3.  4,  5. 
Thomas  Hoorde,  2,  3,  4,  5. 
Thomas  Acton,  3,  4,  5. 
George,  duke  of  Clarence  4,  5. 
John,  earl  of  Shrewsbury,  4. 
John    Straunge   of  Straunge,  knight, 

4,5. 
Humphrey  Blount,  4. 
Rof^er  Loi',  5. 


571 


Somersetshire. 


1.  Westminster, 

18  July,  1461. 

1  Edward  IV. 

Part  1. 

m.  23<f. 

2. 

30  January,  1462. 

>» 

99 

„  21rf. 

3,                               jy 

15  June,  1463. 

3 

» 

99 

„  22(/. 

4. 

20  February  1466. 

5 

19 

M 

„  28rf. 

5.             ,y 

15  November  1466. 

6 

» 

»9 

„  22<f. 

6. 

16  July,  1466. 

>» 

99 

„  20«f. 

7. 

9  April,  1466. 

)> 

99 

99        5^- 

W.  bishop  of  Winchester,  1, 2, 3, 4,  5, 6. 
Th.  bishop  of  Bath  and  Wells,  1,  2,  3. 
R.  bishop  of  Salisbury,  1,  2,  3,  5,  6. 
Richard  earl  of  Warwick,  1,  2,  3,  4, 

5,6. 
William  Botreaux,  knight,  1,  2. 
John  Audeley  of  Andeley,  1,  2,  3,  4, 5, 

6,7, 
John  Stoorton  of  Stourton,  knight,  1, 

2,3. 
Humphrey     StaiTord     of     Suthewyk, 

knight,  1,  2,  3,  4,  5,  6,  7. 
Nicholas  Ayssheton,  1,  2,  3,  4. 
Walter  Moyle,  knight,  1,  2,  3,  4,  5,  6. 
Richard  Ghok,  knight,  1,  2,  3,  4,  5, 

6,7. 
Theobald  Grorges,  knight,  1,  2,  3,  4,  5, 

William  Courtenay,  knight,  1,  2,  3, 4, 
6, 6,  7. 


John  Cheyne  of  Pjrnne,  1,  2,  3,  4,  5, 

6,7. 
Robert  Warre,  1,  2,  3,  4,  6. 
John  Sydenham  the  elder,  1,  2,  3,  5, 

6,7. 
John  Sydenham  the  yonnger,  1, 2, 3, 4, 

5,  6,  7. 
John  Fitz James,  1,  2,  3,  4,  5,  6,  7. 
Robert  Stowell,  1,  2,  3,  4,  5,  6. 
John  Porter,  1,  2,  3,  4,  5,  6,  7. 
Thomas  Saintmaure,  knight,  2. 3,  4,  5, 

6,7. 
R.  bishop  of  Bath  and  Wells,  4,  5,  6. 
George,  duke  of  Clarence,  4,  5,  6,  7. 
John,  earl  of  Worcester,  4,  5,  6,  7. 
William  Stourton  of  Stourton,  knight, 

4,  5,  6,  7. 
Thomas  Yonge,  5,  6. 


Count y  of  Southampton. 


1. 

Westminster,  ft  July,  1461. 

1  Edward  IV. 

Part  1. 

m.  25d,   Vacated. 

2. 

99 

8  July,  1461. 

99 

99 

„   24d. 

3. 

99 

20  July,  1461. 

99 

99 

„  23d, 

4. 

99 

20  November,  1461. 

99 

99 

99    22d, 

5. 

>9 

4  December,  1461. 

99 

99 

„  22d. 

6. 

99 

8  July,  1461. 

99 

99 

,9    2ld. 

7. 

99 

5  Jane,  146). 

99 

99 

„   19c?.  Array. 

8. 

99 

18  March,  1461. 

99 

•9 

„    \%d.  Array, 

9. 

99 

30  January,  1464. 

3 

99 

99 

99    22d. 

10. 

99 

20  May,  1463. 

99 

99 

„    lid.  Array. 

11. 

99 

16  February,  1465. 

4 

99 

9» 

„  23rf. 

12. 

99 

11  November,  1466. 

6 

99 

99 

„   \9d. 

13. 

99 

9  April,  1466. 

99 

99 

„  bd.  Array. 

14. 

Penley,  21 

April,  1466. 

99 

99 

„   Sd.  Array. 

W.  bishop  of  Winchester,  1,  2,  3,  4,  5, 

6,  9,  11,  12. 
Th.  bishop  of  Bath  and  Wells,  1,  2,  3, 

4,  5,  6,  9. 
Richard,  earl  of  Warwick,  1,  2,  3,  4,  5, 

6,  9,  10,  11,  12. 
William,  earl  of  Arundell,  1,  2,  3,  4,  5, 

6,  9,  10,  11,  12,  14. 
Nicholas  Ayssheton,  1,  2,  3,  4,  5,  6, 

9,  11. 
Walter  Moyle,  1, 2,  3, 4,  5,  6, 9, 11, 12. 
John  Lysle,  Lisle,  knif^ht,  1,  2,  4,  5,  G, 

8,  9,  10, 11,  !2,  13,  14. 


Maurice  Berkeley  of  Beverston,  knight, 

1,2,3.4,  5,6,7,8,9,  10,  11,  13. 
John   Paulet,  1,  2,  3,  4,  5,  6,  8,  9,  10, 

11,  12,  13,  14. 

Thomas  Uvedale,  knight,  1 ,  2,  3,  4,  5, 

6,7,8,9,  10,  11,  12,  13,  14. 
Michael  Skyllyng,  1,  2,  3,  4,  5,  6. 
Thomas  Welle,    1,  2,  3,  4,  5,  6,  9,  11, 

12,  14. 

Thomas  Poun<le,  1,  2,  3,  4,  5,  6,  7,  8, 

9,  10,  11,  12,  13,  14. 
.fohii  Audcley  of  Audelcv,  2,  3,  4,  5, 

7,  9,  10,  li,  12,  13,  14^. 


572 


County  of  HoutiuimpU/ii — cont. 


John  Wallop,  2,  3,  4,  6,  9,  10,  11,  12, 

18. 
Thomas  Beyno,  Hajno,  3,  6,  9,  11,  12. 
O.  bishop  or  Exeter,  6,  9,  11. 
Reginald  West  de  la  Waire,  knight,  7,8. 
Richard  Dalyngrigge,  7,  8,  10. 
Geoflfrey  Gate,  kn^ht,  7,  9,  10,  11,  12, 

13,  14. 
William  Brocas,  8,  10. 
WiUiam  Uvedale,  8,  10,  14. 
Reginald  Uvedale,  8,  10. 
John,  earl  of  Worcester,  9,  10,  11,  12, 

13,14. 
William  Fenjs  of  Saj  and  Seell,  kni^t, 

9,  10,  11, 12,  18,  14. 


Greorge  Brenuhet,  9. 

Henry  Courtenay,  10,  14. 

Henry  Trenchard,  lU,  14. 

John  Hamond,  11,  12,  13,  14. 

R.  bishop  of  Bath  and  Wells,  12. 

J.  bishop  of  Exeter,  12, 

G^rge,  doke  of  Clmnoe,  12,  13,  14. 

Antony  Wydeville  of  Scales,  12. 

Thomas  Yonge,  12. 

Richard  Dareli,  12. 

Henry  More,  12. 

Richard  Wall<^,  14. 

Edward  Berkeley,  14. 


TOWN  OF  Southampton, 

Westminster,  6  June,  1461.     1  Edward  IV.  Part  1.  m.  19rf.  Array, 

Robert  Bagworth,  John  Ingoldesby,  John  WiUiani,  Richard  Gryme,  Andrew 
Jamys  and  Walter  Fetplace. 


8  TAFFORDSHIRE, 


1.  Westminster,  8  July,  1461.  I 

2.  „  12  February,  1464.  3 

3.  Pontefract,  11  December,  1463. 

4.  Stony  Stratford,  15  Jnly,  1464.  4 

5.  Westminster,  3  June,  1465.  5 

6.  .«  18  February,  1467.  6 


f» 


Edward  IV.  Part  1. 

m.  2id. 

jf            »» 

„22d. 

>»            ff 

„  21rf. 

)•            » 

„24rf. 

99               n 

„  Z\d. 

ff                       >9 

„22rf. 

J.  bishop  of  Coventry  and  Lichfield, 

1,  2,  8,  4, 5,  6. 
Richard,  earl  of  Warwick,  I,  2,  3,  4, 

5.6. 
John  Sutton  of  Dudley,  knight,  1,  2, 

3,  4,  5,  6. 
John  Audeley  of  Audeley,  1,  2,  3,  4, 

5,6. 
Richard  Byngham,  1,  2,  3,  4,  5,  6. 
Richard  Ghok,  1»  2,  3,  4,  5,  6. 
Walter  Blount  of  Mountjoye,  knight, 

1,  2,  3,  4,  5,  6. 
John  Harpour,  1,  2,  3. 
William  Gumberford,  Comberford,  1, 2, 

3,  4,  5,  6. 


Thomas  Sverdon,  1. 

Thomas  Asteley,  1,  2,  3,  4,  6,  6. 

Walter  Wrottesley,  knight,  1,  2,  3, 

5,6. 
Nicholas  Warynges,  1,  2,  3,  4,  5,  6. 
Thomas  Wolseley,  1 ,  2,  3,  4,  5,  6. 
Richard  Bayle,  1. 
Thomas  Hethe,  1,  2,  3,  4,  5. 
John  Greseley,  knight,  2,  4,  5,  6 
John  Delves,  2,  3,  4,  5,  6. 
Roger  Bayle,  2,  3,  4,  5,  6. 
Richard  Wolseley,  2,  3. 
Ralph  Wolseley,  4,  5,  0. 
John  Wode,  5,  6. 
John,  earl  of  Shrewsbury,  6. 


Suffolk. 


1.  Westminster,  4  July,  1461. 

2.  „  20  November,  1461. 

3.  „  20  February,  1462. 

4.  „  16  March,  1463. 

5.  Stamford,  7  August,  1464. 

6.  Westminster,  16  March,  1465. 

7.  „  12  November,  1465. 

8.  ..  28  November,  1466.   C 


1  Edward  IV.  Part  1.  m.  25d. 

„  22J. 


1 
3 
4 

6 


tt 


99 

»f 

99 

19 
•S 


99 
99 


„  2ld. 
„  24d. 
,.  24</. 
„  32</. 
„  'iOd. 
„  2  Id. 


673 


Suffolk — conit. 


W.  bishop  of  Norwich)  1,  2,  3,  4,  5,  6, 

7  8. 
W.  bishop  of  Ely,  1,  2,  3,  4,  5,  6,  7,  8. 
Joha,  duke  of  Norfolk,  1,  8. 
Btohard,  earl  of  Warwick,  1,  2,  3,  4,  5, 

6,  7,  8. 
John,  earl  of  Oxford,  1,  2,  G,  7,  8. 
Henry,  viscoant  Bourghchier,  earl  of 

Essex,  1,  7,  8. 
William  Yelverton,  knight,   1,  2,  3,  4, 

6,  6,  7,  8. 
Richard  Waldegi-ave,  Walgrave,  knight, 

1,  2,  3,  5. 
Boger  ChaumberleyD,  knight,  1 , 2, 3, 4. 
John  Hopton,  1,  2,  3,  4,  5,  6,  7,  8. 
Thomas  Brewes,  1,  2,  3,  4,  5,  6,  7,  8. 
Gilbert  Debenham  the  dder,  1,  2,  3,  4^ 

5,7. 
John  Denston,  1,  2,  8,  4. 
William  Jenney,  Genney,  1,  2,  3,  4,  5, 

6,  7,  8. 


Reginald  Bous,  I,  2,  3,  4,  5. 

Peter  Ardern,  knight,  2,  4,  5,  6,  7,  8. 

Thomas  Billyng,  knight,  2,  3,  4,  5,  6, 

7,8. 
John  Sulyard,  2,  3,  4,  5,  6,  7,  8. 
John  Howard,  knight,  3,  4,  5,  6,  7,  8. 
Thomas  Bernard,  Barnard,  4,  5,  6,  7. 
John,  duke  of  Suffolk,  5,  G,  7,  8. 
Juhn,  earl   of  Northumberliuid,  5,  6, 

7  8. 
William  Mekilfoild,  Mykelfeld,  5,  6,  7, 

8. 
Thomas  Walgrave,  knight,  6,  7,  8. 
John       Enyngham,      Hevenjngham, 

knight,  6,  7,  8. 
Thomas  Higham  the  younger,  6,  7,  8. 
George,  duke  of  Clarence,  8. 
John  Clopton,  8. 
James  Hubbard,  8. 
Bichard  Yaxley,  8. 


Surrey. 


1.  Westminster,  16  July,  1461. 

2.  „  16  March,  1461. 

3.  „  8  April,  1464. 

4.  Fenley,  17  August,  1464. 

5.  Westminster,  12  April,  1466. 

6.  „  15  July,  1466. 

7.  „  22  July,  1466. 

8.  „  27  October,  1466. 


1  Edward  IV.  Part  1.  m.  23 J. 

„  „  „    \%d.  Array. 

6 


w 


Th.  archbishop  of  Canterbury,  1,  3,  4, 

5,  6,  7,  8. 

W.  bishop  of  Winchester,  1,  3,  4,  5,  6, 

7,8. 
G.  bishop   of   Exeter,  archbishop   of 

York,  1,  3,  4,  6. 
Bichard,  earl  of  Warwick,  1,  3,  4,  5,  6, 

7,8. 
Edward  Neville  of  Bergevenny,  knight, 

1,  3,  4,  5, 6,  7,  8* 
John  Bourghchier  of  Bamers,  knight, 

1,  3,  4,  5,  6,  7,  8. 
Bichard  Fenys  of  Dacre,  knight,  1,  3, 

4,  5,  6,  7,  8. 

William  Yelverton,  knight,  1,  3,  4,  5, 

6,7,8. 
Nicholas  Ayssheton,  knight,  1,  3,  4. 
Bobert  Danvers,  knight,  1,  3,  4,  5,  6, 

7,8. 
Thomas  Cobham,  knighf,  1,  2,  3,  4,  5, 

6,  7,  8. 

John  Merston,  knight,  1. 

Bichard  Illyngworth,  knight,  1,  3,  4, 

5,  6,  7,  8. 


1) 

» 

„      *rx». 

>» 

f» 

„   24d. 

» 

»> 

„   23<f. 

>9 

>f 

«   23rf. 

Nicholas  Gaynesford,  1,  3,  4,  5,  6,  7, 

8. 
William  Gaynesford,  1,  2. 
Thomas.  Slyfeld,  1,  3,  4,  5,  6,  7,  8. 
Bobert  Wyntershill,  1,  3,  4,  5,  6,  7,  8. 
Walter  Denys,  1,  3. 
William  Sydney,  2. 
Henry  Stokton,  2. 
The  sheriff,  2. 
Jobn  Wode,  3,  4,  5,  6,  7,  8. 
Humphrey    Bourghier    of    Cromwell, 

knight,  4,  5,  6,  7,  8. 
Thomas  Vaghan,  4,  5,  6,  7,  8. 
Richard  Elinbrigge,  4. 
George,  duke  of  Clarence,  5,  6,  7,  8. 
John  Elinbrigge,  Klyngbrigge,  5,  6,  7, 

8. 
John  Skynner,  5. 
John  Catesby,  6,  8. 
William  Catesby,  7. 
John  Danyell,  7,  8. 
J.  bishop  of  Exter,  8. 
Arthur  Onnesby,  H. 


«74 


Sussex. 


1.  Westminster,  5  Julj,  1461. 

2.  „  5  July,  1461. 

3.  „  16  March,  1461. 

4.  „  14  May,  1462. 

5.  „  8  August,  1463. 

6.  Penley,  20  August,  1464. 

7.  Westminster,  20  February,  1466. 

8.  „  17  May,  1466. 


I  Edward  IV.  Part  1 .  m.  25d.    Vacated. 


>» 


2 
3 

4 
5 
6 


99 

99 
99 


99 
99 
99 
)f 
19 
99 


99  22c?. 

„  I8d.    Array. 

„  27d. 

„  23J. 

„  24d. 

„  28J. 

99  24rf. 


Th.  archbishop  of  Canterbury,  1,  2,  4, 

5,  6,  7,  8. 

Richard,  earl  of  Warwick,  1,  2,  4,  5,  6, 

7,8. 
William,  earl  of  Arundel,  1,  2,  3,  4,  5, 

6,  7,  8. 

Richard  West  de  la  Warre,  knight,  1, 

2,  3,  4,  5,  6,  7,  8. 

Richard  Fenys  of  Dacre,  knight,  1,  2, 

3,  4,  6,  6,  7,  8. 

John  Markham,  knight,  1,  2,  4,  5,  6, 

7,8. 
Robert  Dan  vers,  knight,  1,  4,   5,   6, 

7,8. 
Roger  Leukenore,  knight,  1,  2,  4,  5,  6, 

7,8. 
John  Pelham,  knight,  1,  2,  4, 6,  6, 7,  8. 
William  Cheyne,  1,  2,  3,  4,  5,  6. 
Richard  Dalyngrigge,   1,  2,  3,  4,  5,  6, 

7,8. 
Bartholomew  Bolney,  1,  2,  8,  4,  5,  6, 

7,8. 


John  Woue,  1,  2,  4,  5,  6,  7,  8. 

John  Goryng  the  younger,  1,  2,  4,  5, 

6,  7,  8. 
John  Emele,  1,  2,  4,  5,  6. 
Roger  Danvers,  2. 
The  sheriff,  3. 
John  Denyssh,   Devenyssh,   4,   5,    6, 

7,8. 
Richard  Alfray,  4,  6,  6. 
John,  earl  of  Worcester,  5,  6,  7,  8. 
William     Hastynges     of     Hastynges, 

knight,  5,  6,  7,  8. 
Nicholas  Morley,  5,  6,  7,  8. 
Humphrey  Bourghchier  of  Cromwell, 

knight,  6,  7,  8. 
Thomas  Vaghan,  6,  7,  8. 
George,  duke  of  Clarence,  7,  8. 
John  Fust,  7,  8. 
Vincent  Fynche,  7,  8. 
J.  bishop  of  Chichester,  8. 


WAR  WICKSHIRE. 


1.  Westminster,  14  July,  1461. 

2.  York,  8  June,  1464. 

3*  Westminster,  5  August,  1465. 
4.  „  11  March,  1466. 

6.  „  16  May,  1466. 


99 


1  Edward  IV.  Part  1.  m.  2^. 

99   24<?. 

„  24rf. 
„  24dL 


4 

99 

99 

5 

99 

99 

6 

» 

99 

99 

99 

J.  bishop  of  Worcester,  1,  2,  3,  4,  6. 
Richard,  earl  of  Warwick,  1,  2,  3,  4,  5. 
Robert  Danby,  knight,  1,  2,  3,  4,  5. 
Richard  Byngham,  1,  2,  3,  4,  5. 
John  Nedeham,  1,  2,  3,  4,  5. 
Thomas  littelton,  1,  2,  3,  4,  5. 
Thomas  Edyngton,  Erdyngton,Edryng- 

ton,  knight,  1,  2,  3,  4,  5. 
John  Greville,  1,  2,  3,  4,  5. 
Thomas  Higford,  1,  2,  3,  4,  5. 
John  Higford,  1,  2,  3,  4,  5. 
Henry  Boteler,  1,  2,  3,  4,  5. 


Thomas  Muston,  1,  2,  8,  4,  6. 

J.  bishop  of  Coventry  and  Lichfield,  2, 

3,  4,  5. 
John,  earl  of  Worcester,  2,  3,  4,  5. 
Thomas  Ferrers,  knight,  2,  3,  4,  5. 
Simon  Mountford,  knight,  2. 
Thomas  Throgmarton,  3. 
George,  duke  of  Clarence,  4,  5. 
John  Straunge  of    Straunge,  knight, 

4,5. 
John  Bourghchier,  knight,  5. 
William  Catesby,  knight,  5. 


575 


Westmoreland. 


1.  Maimesbiiry,  10  September,  1461. 

2.  WestmioBter,  8  December,  1461. 

3.  York,  10  May,  1461. 

4.  Westminster,  20  March,  1463. 

5.  „  14  June,  1463. 

6.  York,  6  December,  14(53. 

Kichard,  earl  of  Warwick,  1,  2,   3,  4, 

5, 6.  . 

John  Neville  of  Montague,  knight,  1, 

2,  3,  4,  5,  6. 
John  Nedeham,  1,  2,  4,  o,  6. 
Thomas  Litielton,  1,  2,  4,  5,  6. 
Hichard  Musgrave,  knight,   1,  2,  3,  4, 

5,6. 
Thomas  Parre,  knight,  1,  3. 
John  Crakenthoq)  of  Holgill,   1,  2,  4, 

6,6. 
Thomas  Bate,  1,  4,  5,  6. 


1  Edward  IV.  Part.  1  m.  22J. 

22d. 


3 


» 


»> 


» 


»> 


>i 


» 


» 


» 


»i 


» 


19</.  Array. 

23d. 
2ld. 


Robert  Duket,  1. 

William  Parre,  knight,  1,  2,  4,  5,  6. 
Robert  Warnop  the  elder,  2,  4,  5,  6. 
Ralph  Blenkenshop,  Bekanshop,  2,  4, 

5,6. 
Thomas  Spence,  ,  2,  4,  5,  6. 
Nicholas  Taverner,  2,  4,  5,  6. 
Ralph  Graystok,  knight,  3. 
John  Hudelston,  3. 
Thomas  Middelton,  3. 
John  Parre,  3. 
Henry  de  Fitz  Hugh,  knight,  6. 


Wiltshire. 


1.  Westminster,  22  July,  1461.  1 

2.  „           14  June,  1463.  3 

3.  „           20  Februar}',  1466.  5 

4.  „           24  November,  1466.  6 


Edward  IV.  Part  1.  m.  23d. 

22d. 
2Sd. 
2\d. 


9» 


9f 


» 


» 


» 


99 


99 


W.  bishop  of  Winchester,  1,  2,  3,  4. 
R.  bishop  of  Salisbury,  1,2,  3,  4. 
Richard,  earl  of  Warwick,  1,  2,  3,  4. 
William,  earl  of  Arundel,  1,  2,  3,  4. 
William  Botreaux,  knight,  1. 
John  Audeley  of  Andeley,  knight,  1,  2, 

3,4. 
John  Stourton  of  Stourton,  knight,  1, 

2. 
Humphrey  Stafford  of  Suthwyk,  knight 

1,  2,  3,  4. 
Nicholas  Ayssheton,  1,  2,  3. 
Walter  Moyle,  knight,  1,  2,  3,  4. 
Edmund  Hungerford,  knight,  1, 2,  3,  4. 


Roger  Tocetes,  knight,  1,  2,  3,  4. 

John  Wylughby,  knight,  1,  2,  3,  4. 

Reginald  Stourton,  knight,  1,  2,  3,  4. 

Henry  Long,  1,  2,  3,  4. 

John  Whittokesmede,  1,  2,  3,  4. 

Thomas  Rogers,  1,  2,  3,  4. 

Philip  Morgan,  1,  2,  3,  4. 

John,  abbot  of  Malmesbuiy,  2,  3,  4. 

George,  duke  of  Clarence,  3,  4. 

John,  earl  of  Worcester,  3,  4. 

William  Stourton  of  Stourton,  knight, 

3,4. 
Thomas  Yong,  4. 
John  Wroughton,  4. 


Worcestershire, 


1.  Westminster,  8  July,  1461. 

2.  „  22  March,  1464.     4 

3.  Wycombe,  8  November,  1464. 

J.  bishop  of  Worcester,  1,  2,  3. 
Richard,  earl  of  Warwick,  1,  2,  3. 
John,  earl  of  Worcester,  1,2,  3. 
John  Beauchamp  of  Powyk,  knight,  1, 

2,3. 
John  Sutton  of  Duddeley,  knight,  1, 

2,3. 
Richard  Bynghnm,  1,  2,  3. 
Richard  Ghok,  1,  2,  3. 


1  Edward  IV.  Part  1,  m.  23d. 

25d. 
23d. 


99 


»5 
99 


Thomas  Litelton,  1,  2,  3. 

Walter  Skull,  Scull,  knight,  1,  2,  3. 

Thomas  Liken,  Lygon,  1,  2,  3. 

Thomas  Holford,  1. 

Thomas  Thorkmerton,    Throgmerton, 

2,  3. 
Thomas  Everdon,  2,  3. 
Richard  Croft  the  elder,  3. 


;> 


576 


Yorkshire,  East  Biding. 


1.  Westminster,  28  May,  1461. 

2.  „  7  Jul/,  1461. 

3.  „  7  July,  1461. 

4.  York,  10  May,  1461. 

5.  Westminster,  5  July,  1462. 

6.  „  28  February,  1465. 

7.  „  18  June,  1466. 

8.  „  12  February,  1467, 

W.  archbishop  of  York,  1,  2,  3,  5. 
L.  bishop  of  Durham,  1,2,  3,  5,  7,  8. 
John,  duke  of  Norfolk,  1,  2,  3. 
Bichard,  earl  of  Warwick,  1 ,  2,  3,  4,  5, 

6,  7,  8. 
William     Neville    of     Fawcomberge, 

knight,  1,  2,  3,  4. 
John  Nevile    of    Montague,   earl    of 

Northumberland,  1,  2,  3, 4,  5, 6, 7,  8. 
Ralph  de  Qraystok,  knight,  1,2,3,  4, 

5,  6,  7,  8. 
John  Nedeham,  1,  2,  3,  5,  6,  7,  8. 
Thomas  Littelton,  1,  2,  3,  5,  6,  7,  8. 
Thomas  Lumley  or  Lomley  of  Lomley, 

knight,  1,  2,  3,  4,  5,  6,  7,  8. 
Robert    Cunstable    or    Constable     of 

Fkynburgh,  knighr,  1,  2,  3,  4,  5,  6, 

7,8. 
John  Melton,  knight,  1, 2, 3, 4,  5, 6, 7,  8. 


1  Edwai 

dIV 

.  Part  1. 

m.  26c/. 

>» 

» 

„  25rf. 

>» 

» 

„  24rf. 

»> 

»> 

„  19d.  Array, 

2        „ 

» 

„  25dL 

4         ,. 

5> 

,.  23d. 

6         „ 

» 

„  25df. 

» 

>J 

„  20d. 

Thomas  Wytham,  1. 

William  Elond,  Eland,  1,  2,  3,  5,  6, 

7,8. 
John  Wynslagli,  Wenslagh,  1,  2,  3,  5, 

6,  7,  8. 
John  Vavasour,  1,  2,  3,  5,  6,  7,  8. 
John  Haytfeld,  1,  2,  3,  4,  5,  6,  7,  8. 
John  Constable,  knight,  2,  3,  5,  6,  7,  8. 
John  Holme,  6,  7,  8. 

„  baron  of  the  Exchequer,  3. 

William  Seyntguyntyn,  knight,  4. 
Robert  HyUyard,  4, 
Robert  Sheffeld,  5,  6,  7,  8. 
Walter  Griffith,  knight,  6,  7,  8. 
G>.  archbishop  of  York,  7,  8. 
Walter  de  Grymeton,  7. 
William  GrymstOD,  8. 
Edward  Saltmerssh,  8. 


Yorkshire,  North  Biding, 


1.  Westminster,  28  May,  1461. 

2.  „  1  November,  1461. 

3.  York,  10  May,  1461. 

4.  „     30  June,  1464.  4 

5.  Westminster,  18  November,  1465.  5 

6.  „  28  June,  1466.          6 

7.  „  8  February,  1467. 

W.  archbishop  of  York,  1,  2,  4. 

L.  bishop  of  Durham,  1,  2,  5,  6,  7. 

John,  duke  of  Norfolk,  1. 

Richard,  earl  of  Warwick,  1,  2,  3,  4, 

5,  6,  7. 
William    Neville    of     Fawcomberge, 

knight,  earl  of  Kent,  1,  2,  3. 
John  NevyUe  of    Montague,  earl  of 

Northumberland,  1,  2, 4,  5,  6,  7. 
Ralph  de  Graystok,  knight,  1,  2,  3,  4, 

5,  6,  7. 
Robert  Danby,  knight,  1,  2,  4,  5,  6,  7. 
John  Nedeham,  knight,  1,  2,  4,  5,  7. 
Thomas  Lyttelton,  1,  2,  4,  5,  6,  7. 
Thomas  Lomley,  Lumley,  knight,  1,  2, 

3,  4,  6,  6,  7. 
James  Strangways,  knight,  1,2,  8,  4, 

5,  6,  7. 
John  Conyers,  knight,    1,  2,  3,  4,  5, 

6,7. 
Thomas  Witham,  1,  2,  4,  5,  6,  7. 


99 
5> 


1  Edward  IV.  Part  1.  m.  26d. 

„  22d. 

„  I9d,  Array, 
„  24d. 
„  27f/. 
„  24d. 
„  20d. 

William  Burgh,  Borough,  1,  2,  3,  4, 

5,  6,  7. 
Bichard  Pygot,  1,  2,  4,  6,  6,  7. 
Ralph  Ayssheton,  knight,  1,  2,  4,  5, 

6,7. 
Nicholas  Gyrlynton,  2,  4. 
George  Lumley,  3. 
Richard  Stranguays,  3. 
John  Wandesford,  3. 
Thomas  Moundeford,  3. 
William  Conyers,  3. 
Thomas  Asper,  Alspar,  4,  5,  6,  7* 
John  Shirwode,  4,  5,  6,  7. 
G.  archbishop  of  York,  5,  6,  7. 
Henry  Fitz  Hugh,  knight,  5,  6,  7. 
William  Colvile,  5. 
Greorge,  duke  of  Clarence,  6,  7. 
John  Salvan  of  Bergh,  knighr,  6,  7. 
John  Colville,  6,  7. 
Henry  Neville,  knight,  7. 


J 


577 


Yorkshire,  West  Biding. 


1.  Westminster,  28  May,  1461. 

2.  „  15  July,  1461. 

3.  York,  10  May,  1461. 

4.  Westminster,  18  October,  1462. 

5.  Pontefract,  8  July,  1464. 

6.  Westminster,  1  February,  1465. 

7.  Cawood,  5  January,  1466. 


Edward  IV.  Part  1.  m.  26€f. 

„  23<f. 


2 
4 


5 


W.  archbishop  of  York,  1,  2,  4,  5. 
Richard,  carl  of  Warwick,  1,  2,  3,  4,  5, 

6,7. 
William  Neville  of  Fawcomberge,  earl 

of  Kent,  1,  2,  3,  4. 
John  Neville  of  Montague,  1,  3,  4. 

,  earl  of  Northumberland,  5,  0,  7. 

Ealph  de  Graystoke,  knight,  1,  2,  3,  4, 

5,  6,  7. 
John  Nedehiim,  knight,  1,  2,  4,  5,  6,  7. 
Thomas  Littelton,  1,  2,  4,  5,  6,  7. 
James  Stranguays,  knight,  1,  2,  3,  4, 

5,  6,  7. 
Brian  Rocclyff,  1,  2,  4,  5,  6,  7. 
Henry  Sothehill,  1,  2,  4,  5,  6,  7. 
Edmund  Fitzwilliam,  1,2,  3,4,  5,  6,  7. 
Robert  Neville,  1,  2,  3,  4,  5,  6,  7. 
John  Thawytes,  Thwaytes,  1,  2,  4,  5, 

6,7. 


„  19rf.  Array, 
„  27J. 

24rf. 

22^/. 

30cf. 


19 


Guy  Fairfax,  1,  2,  4,  5,  6,  7. 
William  ScargilJ,  1,  2,  3,  4,  5,  6,  7. 
Percivnl  Gresacre,  Grisaker,  1,  2,  4,  5, 

6,7. 
John  Grcnefeld,  1,  2,  4,  o. 
John  Ilnstynges,  2,  4,  5,  6,  7. 
John  Say  veil,  knight,  3. 
Thomas  Goldcsburgh,  3. 
Roger  Bank,  3. 
John  Roos,  3. 
John  Malyveixjr,  3. 
William  Stanley,  knight,  4,  5,  6,  7. 
Richard  Fitzwilliam,  knight,  4,  5,  6. 
John  Pilkyngton,  5,  6,  7. 
Robert  Gascoigne,  6,  7. 
G.  archbishop  of  York,  7. 
William  Uopton,  7. 
Ambrose  Grisaker,  7« 
WilHam  Bradford,  7. 


u    86914. 


O  (> 


579 


GENERAL  INDEX. 


A. 

Abbess  Boding,  Bothynggee,  co.  Essex,  396. 

Abbeyfield,  Abbefeld,  178. 

Abbot,  JohD,  322. 

, parson  of  Harleton,  488. 

,  Heniy,  540. 

,  Nicholas,  540. 

And  see  Abot. 

Abbotsbnry,  co.  Dorset,   St.    Peter's,    abbot 
and  convent  of,  79. 

Abbotsbam,  Abbettesham,  co.  Devon,  372. 

Abbotsley,  Albotteslee,  co.  Huntingdon,  94. 

Abdj,  Robert,  parson  of  Campsall,  519. 

Abell,  John,  259. 

, ,  vicar  of  Brookland,  339. 

Aber,  Thomas,  parson  of  Llanaber,  357. 

Aberconeweje.    See  Gonwaj. 

Aberdeen,  Abnrden,  in  Scotland,  56,  82,  210, 
212,221,248,271. 

,  Thomas,  bishop  of,  349. 

Abergevenny,  co.  Monmouth,  426. 

Aberystwith,  Aborstwith,  co.  Cardigan,  40, 
270,  546. 

Abingdon,  Edmund  de,  archbishop  of  Can- 
terbury [1233-1240],  395. 

Abingdon,  charter  dated  at,  499. 

Abington,  Abiton,  Abjrndon,  Habyngton,  co. 
Cambridge,  131,  186,  287. 

,  Great,  co.  Cambridge,  197. 

Abot,  Nicholas,  421. 

Abote,  Thomas,  318. 

Abraham,  Heniy,  504. 

Abrineis,  Tutgisius  de,  62,  404. 

Aborstwith.    See  Aberystwith. 

Aburden.    See  Aberdeen. 

Aby,  CO.  Lincoln,  184,  427,  468,  473. 

Abyndon,  Henry,  208,  457. 

Abyngdon,  John,  509. 

Aodum*  Henry,  20. 

Acgeland,  William,  209. 

Aohambre,  Thomas,  206. 

Acbardys,  co.  Gloucester,  443. 

Achirehe«  William,  5. 

,Kathanne  bin  wife,  5. 

Achnrch,  Acbirche,  Achjrrchf!,  co.  Northamp- 
ton, 7,  9,  104,  588. 

Acklington,  Acljngton,  co.  Northumberland, 
199,  340. 

Acland,  William,  209. 

Ade,  CO.  Norfolk,  men  of,  309. 


Aeon,  master  and  brethren  of  the  hospital  of 

St.  Thomas,  60. 
Acton,  Aketon,  co.  Suffolk,  116,  255,  356. 

Acton,  James,  clerk  of  the  king's  chief  place 
in  Ireland,  1 10. 

».,  John,  8,  56. 

,  Thomas,  324,  444,  570. 

Acton  Bumell,  Acton  Bornell  [co.  Salop], 
94,  459. 

^.,  statute  of  merchauts  of,  266. 

Acton  Bound,  co.  Salop,  443. 

Adam,  John,  32,  206,  255,  301,  382. 

,  Thomas,  288,  412,  488. 

Adams,  Hugh,  127. 

Adamson,  Bichard,  31. 

Adderley  cum  Sponeley,  co.  Salop,  87. 

Adel  [co.  York],  376,  377. 

Adene,  Richard,  3S. 

Aderby,  co.  Lincoln,  471,  544. 

Adfortoi^  Atteforton  [co.  Hereford],  475. 

Adgor,  John,  52. 

Adlyngton,  201. 

Admiralty,  Court  of,  85,  203. 

Admiral.     See  Neville ;  Bichard. 

Adnet,  Thomas,  349. 

Adys,  John,  242.. 

Aelidis,  daughter  of  Godfirey,  duke  of  Lor- 
raine, 499. 

Aerley.     See  Arley. 

Aette,  William  de,  160. 

Agelond,  William,  209. 

Agmondesham.    See  Amersham. 

Agnes,  Walter,  son  of,  500. 

Aikton,  Ayketon  co.  Cumberland.  140,  468, 
534. 

Ailleward,  Thomas,  385. 

Ainsty,  Aynsty,  co.  York,  hundred  or  wapen- 
take of,  223. 

Aire,  Ayer,  river,  35,  223,  528. 

Aisneford,  William  de,  402 

Aisserige.    See  Ashridge. 

Akebyche.    See  Hakebeclu 

Akerland,  John,  31. 

Aketon.    See  Acton. 

AUrd,  William,  174. 

Alayn,  William,  221. 

Albany,  Alexander,  duke  of,  349. 

Albemarle,  countess  of.     See  Fortibui. 

Albeni,  Albunieio,  Nigel  de,  812,  377. 

Alberbury,    Alburbury,    co.    Salop,    priory 
called  New  Abbey  by,  148. 

Albertini,  the,  276. 

OO   2 


530 


GENERAL  INDEX. 


Alberton,  Richard,  12,  359. 

,  Thomas,  476. 

Albon,  John,  503. 

,  William,  ahbot  of  St.  Albans,  345. 

Albofough,  Aldeboargh,  oo  York,  16U. 
Albotteslee.     See  Abbotsley. 
Albimieio.     See  Albeni. 
Albnrgh.     See  Aldeburgh. 
Alburgh,  John,  94. 
Alby.     See  Aldeby. 
Alcester,  co.  Warwick,  419. 

,  abbey  of,  433. 

Alchemy,  285. 
Alcok,  John,  60.  S9. 

,  Master  Hogh,  dean  of  Bangor,  357. 

,  Robert,  547. 

William,  547. 

Aid',  William,  son  of,  342. 

Aldav,  Aldcy,  Aldy,  John,  14,  215,  282,  303, 

429,  493,  514. 

,  Peter,  3(»4. 

Aldbourne,  co.  Wilts,  274. 

Aldebourgh.     See  Alborough. 

Aldeburgh,  Alburgh  [co.  Suffolk],  100. 

Aldeburgh,  Richard  de,  446. 

Aldeby,  Alby  by  Becclys,  co.  Norfolk,  172. 

Aldehons,  Thomas,  443. 

Aldeland,  Henry,  460. 

Aldenam,  co.  Norfolk,  186.  ^ 

Alderiche,  Walter^  206. 

Alderley,  John,  177,  382. 

Aldermaston,  co.  Berks,  373. 

Aldemey,   Aureneye,    island    of,  people  of, 

465. 
Alderwasley,  AUerwasle  [co.  Derby],  31,  82. 

Aldesteyuton,  co.  Westmoreland.     See  Stain- 

ton. 
Aldesworth.     See  Aws worth. 

Aldewynche.     See  Aldwinkle. 

Aldewyncle,  William,  153,  175. 

Aldham,  Haldham,  co.  Suffolk,  197.  287. 

Aldington,   Aldyngton,    co.   Kent,  88,   465, 

548. 
Aldwinkle,  Aldewynche,  Alwynkell,co.North- 

ampton,  7,  9,  104,  111,  431,  533. 

Alerdale,  co.  Cumberhmd,  149. 

Alesbeare,  co.  Devon.    See  Aylesbeare. 

Alesbury.     See  Aylesbury. 

Alestre,  Thomas,  282. 

Alexaunder,  John,  52. 

Aleyn,  John,  89,  194,  242,  471,  505,  506. 

,  Nicholas,  101,  138. 

,  Richard,  504. 

,  Robert,  34,  280. 

,  Roger,  816,  817. 

,  Thomas,  201,  816,  817,  552. 

, ,  auditor  of  the  duchy  of  Corn* 

wall,  129. 

,  William,  51,  58. 

A.leynsmore.    See  Allensmore. 


Alfoid,  Alforth,  co.  Lincoln,  184,  427. 
Alford,  Peter,  523. 

Alfray,  Richard,  574. 

Alfyngtou.     See  Alphington. 

Algarkirk,  Algerkyrit,  co.  Lincoln,  169,  173. 

Aliens,  tax  6n,  276. 

Alisauude,  in  South  Wales,  860. 

Alisaundre,  William,  419. 

Alisholt,  Hahiesholt,  oo.  Southampton,  forest 

of,  24,  48,  522. 
Alkham,  Alkam,  co.  Kent,  88, 465,  548. 
Allensmoie,  Aleynsmore,  co.  Hereford,  72, 

85,  388. 
Allerton,  Alwarton,  co.  Somerset,  369. 
Malererer,  CO.  York,  alien  priory  of, 

74. 
Allerton,  Robert,  143,  514,  523. 
Allerton  Shire  [co.  York],  348. 
Allerwasle.     See  Alderwasley. 
AUestre,  John,  446. 
Alleweston.     See  AWeston. 
Allte  ar  Heythe,  co.  Monmouth,  425. 
Almain,  129,  232. 
,  merchants  of,   109,  177,  231,   253, 

261,  489,  491,  503,  529. 

Alman,  John,  200. 

Almondington,   Almondyngton,   co.  Sussex, 

443. 
Almshouse,  licence  for  the  foundation  of, 

486. 
Alnewick,  William,  bishop  of  Lincoln  [1436- 

50],  44,  310. 
Alnmonth,  Aylmouth,  co.   Northumberland, 

199,  340. 
Alnwick,  Annewyk,  co.  Northumberland,  44, 

49,  79,  197,  199^,  213,  262,  340. 

Hull  by,  197. 

Alove,  Robert,  194,  266. 
Alphington,  Alfyngton,  co.  Devon,  429. 
Alplon,  John,  the  younger,  561. 
Aired,  Richard,  145. 

,  Agnes  his  wife,  145. 

Alryngton,  co.  Dorset,  108. 

Alspar,  Thomas,  576. 

Alspath,  CO.  Warwick,  285,  324,  490,  510. 

Altemeledeu.     See  Meliden. 

Alton,  CO.  Stafford,  42. 

,  Aulton,  CO.  Southampton,  198,  505. 

Alveley.     See  Aveley. 

Alveley,  James,  221. 

Alveston,  Alleweston,  co.  Gloucester,  531. 

,  hundred  of,  531. 

Alvingham,  co.  Lincoln,  169. 

Alvington,  Alvyngton,  co.  Gloucester,  169, 

533. 
Alwarton.     See  AUeiton. 
Alwynkell.     See  Aldwinkle. 
Alygh,  John,  490. 
Alyn,  Robert,  51. 
Alyngtoc,  Bartholomew,  82. 
,  John,  232,  560. 


GENERAL  INDEX. 


581 


Alyugton,  WiUiam,  85,  68, 133,  177,  281, 884; 
550,560,  561,  565. 

Ambcrlej^  Aumborle,  co.  Sus«ex,  251. 

Amblexide,  Hamelset  Troutebt-k,  co.  West- 
moreland, 1G9. 

Ambresbury.    See  Ame!>bctry. 

Ambrose,  Christopbtrr,  133. 

Amenham,  AgmODdcsham.co.Backiogbam,  6. 

Amenham,  Philip,  47G. 

Ameryk,  Richard,  413. 

Amesbury,  Ambresbury,  co.  Wilts,  prioress 
and  nuns  of,  313. 

,  prioress  of,  384. 

,  Ida,  prioress  of,  813. 

,  Isabel  de  Lancastre,  prioress  of,  313. 

Amnell,  Joceus,  489. 

Amondeeham,  Philip,  476. 

Amory,  Hugh,  115,  190. 

Amour,  Oto,  853. 

Amplefortli,     Ampulford,     Ampilforth,    co. 

York,  224,  469. 
Amsterdam,  Anstradam,  in  Holland,  231. 
Amyas,  John,  194,  292. 
Amy  11,  Joceuii,  201. 

,  Jooosus,  68. 

AnablepUl,  in  Sooth  Wales,  119,  533. 

Ancroft,  co.  Northumberland,  383. 

Andelys,  Roche  Andeljs,  in  France,  charters 

dated  at,  246,  249,  .'^97,  399,  405,  407, 

556. 
Andever.     See  Andover. 
Andever,  John,  abbot  of  Malmesbnry,  210. 
Anderby,  co.  Lincoln,  468. 
Anderton,  Edmund,  53. 
Andover,  Andever,  co.  Southampton,  131. 

.,  men  of,  528. 

,  priory  of,  164. 

,  charter  dated  at,  318. 

Andrew,  John,  22,  68, 201,  265,  530. 

,  Reginald,  174. 

Andrewe,  Richard,  221. 

, ,  dean  of  York,  535. 

,  Thomas,  350. 

,  Waiiam,  254,  501,  505. 

,  Eliiabeth  his  wife,  501. 

Andrewes,  John,  568. 

Andrewys,  James,  508. 

Anehand.    See  Annan. 

Anerhill,  Thomas,  504. 

Angers,  abbey  of  St.  Nicholas  by,  53, 57,  145, 

177. 

,  abbot  of,  186. 

,  abbot  and  convent  of,  74. 

Angewyn,  Thomas,    abbot    of   St.    Peter's, 

Chertsey,  181, 185,  512. 
Anglesey  county,  51,  529. 
Anjoo,  eount  of.    See  Henry ;  John. 

steward  of.     See  Tumeham. 

Ankerwyke,  co.  Buekingham,  priory  of,  2^9. 
Anhiby,  co.  York,  237. 
Anleytton,  co.  Dublin,  54. 


I 


Annan,  Anehand,  in  Scotland,  221. 

Anuc,  countess  of  Cambridge,  346,  463. 

Anne,  John,  570. 

Annory,  Ann*,  co.  Devon,  265. 

Annejfley,  James,  202. 

Annotbeth,  co.  Westmoreland,  169. 

Anry.     See  Annery. 

Anstey,  Ansty,  co.  Hertford,  131. 

Anstradam.     See  Amsterdam. 

Ansty,  John,  68,  133,  281,  304,  560. 

Antony  [co.  Cornwall],  220,  225. 

Antrone,  Thomas,  472. 

,  WiUiam,  the  younger.  101. 

Antwerp,  charter  dated  At,  396. 

Apethorpe,  A  ppethorp,  co.  Northampton,  411. 

Apostolic  see,  indult  of,  9,  345. 

Appelford,  John  de,  abbot  of  Reading,  305 

Appethorp.    See  Apethorpe. 

Apphowell,  Philip,  chaplain    of    Standlake, 
182. 

, ,  parson  of  WincheUea,  182. 

Appilby,  Stephen,  348. 

Appildrecombe.     See  Appuldnrcombe. 

Appleby,  Appilby,  Appulby,  co.  Westmore- 
land, 186,  189,  484. 

Applethwaite,  Appulthwayte  Troutebek,  co 
Westmoreland,  169. 

Appowell,  William,  278. 

Appulby,  John,  253. 

,  Robert,  256 

Appuldnrcombe.    Appildrecombe    [Isle    of 
Wight],  priory  of,  88. 

Appulton,  Roger,  279. 

,  William,  324. 

Aprice,  Apryce,  Apprice,  Richard,  10,  411. 

,  William,  42 

Aps,  Stephen,  256. 

,  William,  320. 

Apsle,  John,  429,  493. 

ApulUiorp,  John,  547. 

Aquitaine,  83,  209,  224,  233,  234,  276,  283, 
284,  438,  451. 

,  duke  of.     See  Henry. 

,  admiral  of.     See  Neville ;  Richard. 

Aragon,  517. 

,  Peter,  king  of,  517. 

Arbfawter,  James,  568. 

Arbroath,  Arbrothe,  in  Scotland,  214. 

Archer,  John,  490. 

Thomas,  414. 

Archer's  Court,  co.  Kent,  88,  464,  548. 

Ardagh,  John,  bishop  elect  of,  278. 

Ardee,  co.  Louth,  74. 

Arderne,  John,  280,  861. 

, clerk  of  the  works,  11. 

,   Peter,    65,  99,   182,   183,  201,  279, 

281,  803,  804,  838,  839,  846,  347, 
488-490,  529,  580,  559,  560,  564-568, 
573. 

, ,  chief  baron  of  the  Kxcheqiier, 

94,  12H,  137. 


582 


GENERAL  INDEX. 


Arderne,  Peter,  jastice  of  the  Common  Bench, 
119,  190,488,512. 

,  Katharine  his  wife,.  483. 

Bohert,  justice  in  eyre  in  the  county 

of  Bedford,  446. 

Ardington,  377. 

,  CO.  Berks,  7,  9,  104,  533. 

Ardmulchao,  Ardemulgham,  co.  Meath,  329. 

Argailee.    See  Arrallas. 

Argent,  John,  130. 

Argent',  Richard  de,  267. 

Argenteyn,  John,  parson  of  Dummer,  182. 

, ,  parson  of  Whitchurch,  182. 

Argenton,  charter  dated  at,  408. 

,  letters  patent  dated  at,  22. 

Argum,  Richard,  449. 

Arkengarthdale,  Arkirgarth  Dale,  co.  York, 
169. 

Arley,  Aerley,  co.  Stafford,  94,  459. 
Armath^Taite,  Armcthiraytbank,  co  Cumber- 
land, 109. 

Armeburgj  Robert,  172. 

Armethwaytbank.     See  Armathwaite 

Arms,  grant  of  a  vliito  rose  on,  59. 

Armyn,  John,  508. 

Amall.     See  Arnold. 

Amesby,  Emesby,  co.  Leicester,  104. 

Arnewe,  William,  133. 

Arnold,  Amall,  co.  Nottingham,  199,  22G 

Arnold,  Edmund,  33,  34. 

,  Maurice,  539. 

,  William,  506. 

Arnyogton.     See  Arringtou. 

Arrallas,  Argalles,  co.  Cornwall,  197. 

Arras,  Erghus,  co.  York,  455. 

Arrington,  Amyngton,  co.  Cambri<lgc,   131, 
461. 

Arrun,  co.  York,  J  99. 

Arruners,  co.  York,  199. 

Arther,  Artor,  Richard,  46,  483. 

Arthui-e,  Nicholas,  196. 

Arthyngton.     See  Eardiugton. 

Artois,  in  France,  60,  517. 

Artor.     See  Arther. 

Arundel,  co.  Sussex,  rape  of,  443. 

...  <...  >  college  of  Holy  Trinity,  443. 

,  hospital  of,  443. 

,  earl  of.     See  I^'itz  Alan. 

,  charter  dated  at,  bl3. 

Arundell,  John,  123,  233,  389,  488,  561. 

..........  ,  the  elder,  28. 

,. , ,  bishop  of  Chichester,    [1459- 

1477]  205,  251,  266,  290,  358,  574. 

^ feheriff  of  Devon,  470. 

,  Ranfrid,  220,  501. 

,  Thomas,  bishop  of  Ely,  249,  397. 

,........,  ,  lord  Mautravers,  .547. 

,  Margaret,  his  wife,  547. 

And  see  Darundell. 

Asbedde  co.  Devon,  372. 

Asboumer,  AVilliam,  492. 


Ashy,  Richard,  4. 

,  Thomas,  448. 

,  Margaret  his  wife,  448. 

Asenby,  Asteuby,  co.  York,  186. 
Ash,  Haske,  oo.  Devon,  228,  879. 

,  Ayssh,  CO.  Kent,  225. 

Ash  by  Dartford,  co.  Kent,  419. 
Ash  by  Meopham,  co.  Kent,  419. 
Ashbome,  Aysshebum  [co.  Derby],  82,  100. 
Ashburton,  Asshpertou,  Aisberton,  co.  Deyon, 

142,  864,  366,  368. 
Ashbnry,  Ajrsshebury  [co.  Berks],  17. 

,  CO.  Devon,  872. 

Ashby  la  Zonche,  co.  Leicester,  104,  354, 549. 
Ashen,  co.  Essex,  520. 
Ashendon,  Esshenden.  co.  Bnckingham,  473. 
Ashford,  Asshettesford,  co.  Kent,  76. 
Ashley,  co.  Northampton,  104,  354. 
Ashridge,  Aisserige,  co.  Devon,  865. 

,  Hassherugge,  hundred  of,  445. 

Ashstead,  co.  Surrey,  545. 

Ashton,  CO.  Devon,  381. 

Ashurst,  CO.  Surrey,  328. 

Ashwell,  Asshewell,  co.  Hertford,  175,  417. 

Ashwood,  Asshewode  [co.  Stafford] ,  56. 

Askebi,  877. 

Askewe,  William,  bishop  of  Salisbury,  [1438- 
1450]  298. 

,  Master  William,  master  of  the  hoiLse 

of  St.  Michael,  Cambridge,  561. 

Ask  ham,  William,  385. 

Askham  Bryau,  Brianaskam,  co.  York,  169. 

Askylby.     See  Asselby. 

Aslacoe,  Aslakhowe,  co.  Lincoln,  wapentake 
of,  451. 

Aslaokby,  Aslakby,  co.  Lincoln,  103,  354. 

Aslacton,  Aslakton  [co.  Norfolk],  173. 

Aspall,  lliomas,  escheator  in  the  county  of 
Hereford,  338,  339,  528. 

Asper,  Thomas,  576. 

Aspatria,  Aspatrik,  co.  Cumberland,  466. 

Aspley  Gnise,  Asplegyse,  co.  Bedford,  410. 

Asschenden,  John,  319. 

Asseby,  Richard,  94. 

Asselby,  Askylby,  co.  York,  413. 

Assh  by  Campesse.     See  Carapscy  Ash. 

Assh,  John,  63. 

As-shdale.     See  Eskdale. 

Asshe,  Thomas,  47 1 . 

Assbeby,  James,  267. 

,  Master  Thomas,  516. 

Asshehurst,  Ralph,  295. 

Asiihcton,  Ralph,  66;  277,  348. 

,  Richard,  abbot  of  Peterborough,  48. 

And  see  Aysshetou. 

Asshettesford.     See  Ashford. 

Asshewell,  Robert,  24. 

Asshewode.     See  Ashwood. 

Asshpcrton.     See  Ashburton. 

Asshton  on  Caraunt,  co.  Gloucester,  216. 

Astenby.     See  Asenby. 


GENERAL  INDEX. 


583 


ABtley,  CO.  Warwick,  490. 

Astley,  Asteley,  John,  10,  190,  263,  359,  379. 

,  Joan,  122. 

,  Thoulas,  572. 

ABton,  eo.  Berks,  125. 

,  CO.  Suffolk,  295. 

AsUm,  Jooosa,  549. 

,  John,  549. 

,  John,  panon  of  Snodlond,  419^ 

,  William,  467,  468,  545. 

Bobert,549. 

Atton  Mokyns,  co.  Backingham,  473. 

Aeton,  North,  co.  Oxford,  13. 

Aiwardbj,  Aswerdby,  co.  Lincoln  224,  292. 

Atclyff,  John,  35. 

Athelbert,  king  of  England,  charter  of,  403. 

Athelstan,  king  of  England,  charter  of,  137. 

Athelwnlf,  king  of  England,  charter  of,  403. 

Atherston,  CO.  Warwick,  120,  186,  189. 

Atkynson,  John,  280. 

Atteforton.    See  Adforton* 

Attekeyn,  Bobert,  511. 

Atthewater,  Laurence,  256. 

Attleborough,  Attylbar^h,  oo.  Norfolk,  87. 

Attorney  general,  appointment  of,  1 ,  6,  68. 

Aubrey,  Robert,  82. 

Aubry,  John,  the  elder,  333. 

Auburn,  Awbom,  co.  York,  39. 

Ancher,  Henry  son  of,  895. 

Audele,  Hugh  de,  justice  of  North  Wales, 
310. 

Audeley,  John,  of  Audeley,  7-9,  34,  37,  88, 
65,  67,  87,  98,  99,  101,  132,  134,  135, 
203,  231,  801,  488,  489,  529,  530,  562, 
563,  570-572,  575. 

,  Humphrey,  21. 

,  James  de,  481. 

,  Nicholas  de,  481. 

,  Thomas  de,  481. 

And  gee  Daudelegh. 

Andesley,  James,  347. 

Aueray,  Thomas,  258. 

Auerey.    See  Awre. 

Auger,  Henry,  14,  102,  272. 

,  John,  100. 

Augnyllun,  Kobert,  160. 

Aulton  Fancras,  prebend  of,  1 9. 

Aumberle.    See  Amberley. 

Aane,  John,  18. 

Aunewyk.     See  Alnwick. 

Aungell,  John,  827. 

Auntell,  John,  175. 

Aurea,  Raphael  de,  302,  303. 

Anreneye.    See  Aldemey. 

Austell,  John,  1 ,  4. 

Austen,  Austyn,  John,  61,  79,  110,  153,  343, 
353,  435,  582. 

, ,   escheator    in    the    county  of 

Oxford,  363. 

,  Richard,  5,  37. 

,  William,  152. 


Anthorpe,  Awcthorpc,  co.  Lincoln,  103,  352, 
468. 

Auxerre,  diocese  of,  193. 

Aveley,  Alveley,  co.  Essex,  73. 

Avenbury,  co.  Hereford,  72,  85,  372,  388. 

Aver,  William  of,  490. 

Avery,  Thomas,  440. 

Avon  river  [co.  Warwick],  90. 

Avote,  Thomas,  511. 

Avranches,  Herbert,  bishop  of  [  11 54- 1161], 
494. 

Avynsbury,  co.  Hereford,  388. 

Awbom.     See  Auburn. 

Awelyn,  William,  203,  206. 

Awen,  William,  520. 

Awesthill,  John,  201. 

Awestyn,  Hugh,  207. 

Awetborp.     See  Anthorpe. 

Awnewyke,  John,  513. 

Awnwik.    See  Alnwick. 

Awre,  Auerey,  co.  Gloucester,  169,  583. 

Awsworth,  Aides  worth,  co.  Nottingham,  22. 

Awyke,  John,  411. 

Axebrugge,  William,  259. 

Axholme,Isle  of,co.LiDcoln,  91, 223, 451,  484. 

Axminster,  Axmynstre,  co.  Devon,  108,  250. 

Axstode,  Stephen,  19-1,  266. 

Aydrop,  Thomas,  64. 

Ayer.     See  Aire. 

Ayketon.     See  Aikton. 

Aylbarton,  Aywarton,  co.  Gloucester,  169, 
533. 

Aylesbeare,  Alesbeare,  co.  Devon,  225,  227 , 
831. 

Aylesbury,  Alesbury,  co.  Buckingham,  64, 
77,  87,  118. 

Aylesby,  co.  Lincoln,  169. 

Aylesthorpe,  co.  Lincoln,  113, 141,  361. 

Ayleward,  Edward,  469. 

Aylewyn,  John,  175, 

,  Bobert,  203. 

Aylmouth.     See  Alnmonth. 

Aylmynstre,  co.  Gloucester,  322. 

Aylneham,  co.  Northumberland,  340. 

,  CO.  York,  213. 

Aylove,  Thomas,  489. 

Ayiy,  Dan  John,  abbot  of  Malmesbury,  228. 

Aynes worth,  George,  32. 

Aynho,  Eyneho,  oo.  Northampton,  444. 

,  hospital  of  8S.  James  and  John,  444. 

Ayringden,  co.  York,  344. 

Ayscogh,  Robert,  parsou  of  Campsall,  519. 

Ayscougb,  Hugh,  492. 

And  see  Askewe. 

Ayssh.     See  Saltash. 

Aysshboum.    See  Ashboum. 

Aysshby,  William,  escheator  in  the  county  of 
Leicester,  549. 

Ayssbc,  John,  135. 

, ,  the  elder,  135. 

, ,  the  younger,  135. 


584 


GENERAL  INDEX. 


Ayssheby,  Thomas,  273. 

,  William,  273. 

AyssheburD.     .See  Ashborne. 

Aysshebury.     See  Ashbnry. 

AysshetOD,  Nicholas,  38,  65,  99^  102,  132, 
133,  201,  202,  228,  238,  27lf,  303,  304, 
346,  847,  864,  865,  368,  488-490,  504, 
561-568,  571,  573,  575. 

, justice  of  the  Bench,  14. 

,  Ralph,  30,  102,  358,  576. 

And  see  Assheton. 

Aythorn.    «See  Byhorne. 

Aywarton.    See  Aylburton. 


B. 


Babam,  Thomas,  278. 

Babraham,  Badburgham,  co.  Cambridge,  169, 
863,  369. 

BabOiorp,  Robert,  286. 

,  William.  417. 

Babyngton,  Hugh,  203. 

,  Robert,  512. 

,  Thomas,  232. 

,  William,  286,317,  512,  569. 

Bacheley,  co.  Worcester,  357. 

Bacon,  William,  381. 

Baddesley  Clinton,  co.  Warwick,  490. 

Badelesmere,  Guncelin  de,  62. 

Badgeworth,  Beggeworth,  co.  Gloucester,  268. 

Badilsmere.     See  Badlesmere. 

Badlesmere,    Badilsmere,    Batelesmere,     co. 
Kent,  76,  197. 

Badminton,   Badmyngton    [co.   Gloucester], 
98. 

Bady,  John,  212. 

Bagger,  Thomas,  418. 

Bagot,  John,  59,  286,  304,  336. 

:,  Thomas,  317. 

Bagshotes  bailly,  co.  Berks,  64. 

Bagworth,  Robert,  230, 572. 

Baibrook,  William,  1 1. 

Baile,  Roger,  101. 

Baillesford,  co.  Devon,  119. 

Baillibarrok.    See  Bally  barrack. 

Baillio,  Peter  de,  500. 

Bailly,  Bayle,  Baylly,  Guy,  511. 

,  John,  82,  194,  266. 

,  Peter,  410. 

,  Richard,  270,  652,  572. 

,  Robert,  141,302. 

,  Roger,  572. 

Bainton,  Bayneton,  co.  York,  349. 

Bakepuz,  Ralph  de,  807. 

Baker,  John,  175,  282,  444,  448. 

,  Nicholas,  139,  437. 


Baker,  Ralpli,  490. 

ll'chard,  31C,  4U0. 

,  Roger,  223,  2G7. 

Thomas,  508,  526.  * 

,  Walter,  185. 

,  William,  172,451. 

Balard,  Thomas,  133. 

Balast  Hill  by  Newcastle,   co.  Northuraber- 
land,  83. 

Baldassarre,  bishop  of  Tusculum,  405. 

Baldeswell,  co.  NoTfolk,  413. 

Baldewyn,  John,  521,  558. 

,  Richard,  5. 

Baldre,  Baldri,  BaWry,  William,  13,  33,  183, 
229,  294,  808,  536,  545. 

Baldslow,  Baldeslowe,  Balslowe,  co.  Sussex, 

hundred  of,  138. 
Bale,  John,  287. 
Ball,  John,  254. 
Ballagh,  Donald,  262.  • 

I  John  de  Isle,  his  son,  262. 

Ballard,  John,  507. 

,  Thomas,  566. 

Ballarst,  co.  Kent,  88,  464,  548. 

Balle,  William,  552. 

Ballesden,  Thomas,  39. 

Ballianely,  co.  Dublin,  54. 

Ballibaghill,  in  Ireland,  117. 

Balliol,  Balyall,  John,  king  of  Scots,  259,  547. 

Ballybarrack,  Baillibarrok,  co.  Louth,  117. 

Balsale   [co.  Warwick],  John  Langstrother, 
preceptor  of,  52. 

BalHsUe,  Thomas,  prebendary  of  Syrescote. 
879. 

Balscaddan,  Balscadane,  ca  Dublin,  124. 

Balscote,  co.  Oxford,  417. 

Balsoon,  Balsoun,  co.  Mcath,  117. 

Balsover.     See  Bolsover. 

Baly,  Thomas,  172. 

Balyall.     See  Ballol. 

Bam.     See  Bamme. 

Bamburgh,  co.  Lincoln,  486. 

I   Bamborough,   co.   Northumberland, 

21,  261,  269,  335. 

Bamfeld,   Peter,  escheator  in  the  county  of 
Somerset,  290. 

Bamme,  Bam,  John,  122,  125,  132,  218,  491, 
566. 

,  Richard,  122. 

,  Joan  his  wife,  122. 

Bampton,  co.  Devon,  476. 
Bampton,  John,  174. 
Banaster,  John,  206. 
Banastre,  Ralph,  64. 

,  WiUlam,  34,  313. 

Banbury,  co.  Oxford,  258,  319,  324,  414. 
Bane,  Andrew,  248. 
Banpe,  Henry,  475. 
Bangor,  bishop  of,  51. 

And  see  Blakedon. 
,  bishopric  of,  357. 


GENERAL  INDEX. 


585 


Bangor,  deaii  of«     See  Alcok. 

diocese  of,  flS,  127,  194,  357,  428. 

cathcdrul  of,  357. 

liaahaiu,  John,  78. 

Bank,  Thomas,  26,  30. 

,  Roger,  577. 

Bannandesdale,  co.  Wcstmorelond,  169. 

Banon,  Thomas,  112. 

Banstead,  Benestede,  co.   Surrey,  335,  360, 
430,  518,  545. 

Banthan,  Stephen,  408. 

BanweHe,  John,  201. 

Barbon,  Berbum,  co.  Westmoreland,  169. 

Barbour,  John,  2,  271. 

,  Lewis,  303, 

,  Thomas,  173,411. 

Barboure,  William,  490. 

Barchamstede.    See  Berkhamstede. 

Barcombe,  Bereombe,  co.  Sussex,  104,  180, 

354,  356. 
Bardc,  Bernard  de  la,  529. 

l^rdfield,  Berdefeld,  Bradefeld,  co.  Essex, 
14,  15,93,  131. 

,  Little,  180,205. 

Bardney,  co.  Lincoln,  abbey  of,  517,  .'i24. 

,  convent  of,  517. 

,  Gilbert  Multon,  abbot  of,  517. 

,  Richard  Homcastell,  abbot  of,  524. 

Bardney,  Walter,  135. 

Bardolf,  Thomas,  342,  398. 

, ,lord,  179,355. 

,  lord  of,  187. 

S«e  a/«o  Beaumont ;  Phelipp. 

Bardwell,  Berdewell,  co.  Suffolk,  415. 

Barecoarte,  co.  Sussex,  448. 

Baresby,  John,  20. 

Baret,  Edmund,  273. 

,  Thomasina,  382. 

,  Valentine,  382. 

Barett,  John,  52. 

,  WiUiam,  52. 

Barford,  Berkeford,  co.  Bedford,  507. 

Barf  Old  St.  Martin,  Bereforth  Seint  Marty  n, 

CO.  Wilts,  7,  104,  .533. 
Barfreston,  Barston,  co.  Kent.  88,  464,  465, 

648.  ' 

Barham,  Berham,  co.  Kent,  330. 

Barkeley.    See  Berkeley. 

Barker,  Alan,  874. 

,  Henry,  374. 

John,  35,  257. 

,  Master  John,  parson  of  With  erne,  73. 

,  Thomas,  5. 

Barkham.    See  Barcombe. 

Barking,  Berkyng,  co.  Essex,  89,  228,  291, 
396-398,  442. 

,  abbess  and  convent  of,  83,  223,  895. 

,  Katharine  de  la  Pole,  abbess  of,  223, 

395. 

,  A.,  abbess  of,  396. 

Adelita,  Abbess  of,  396. 


Barking,  Agnes,  abbess  of,  306. 

,  Hedelburga,  abbess  of,  895. 

,  Mary,  abbess  of,  396. 

,  Matilda,  abbess  of,  395. 

,  cliaiters  dated  at,  396. 

...,  in  London,  fraternity  of  St.  Mary  in 

the  church  of,  428. 

Barkston,  Barkeston,  co.  Jjeicestor,  104,  3ri3 

Barkway,  Barkeweyc,  168. 

Barkworth,  John,  36. 

Barlborough,  Harleburgh,  co.  Derby,  337. 

Barlby,  Bardelbi,  co.  York,  376,  377. 

Barleby  by  Selby,  co.  York,  318. 

Barlee,  Barley,  Henry,  32,  228.  565. 

,  John,  82. 

,  Richard,  32. 

,  Thomas,  32. 

William,  44,  134. 

Barlowe,  John,  389,  511. 

,  Roger,  511. 

,  William,  134. 

Barlyng,  John,  259,  318. 

Bamabe,  William  75. 

Bamack,  Bemak,  co.  Northampton,  410. 

Barnard,  John,  490. 

Thomas,  37,  134,  573. 

Bamastapol.    See  Barnstaple. 

Bamby,  Bamaby,  co.  Suffolk,  256. 

,  CO.  York,  507. 

Barneoote,  Walter,  prior  of    St.  Andrew's, 
Tywardreath,  475. 

Barnemyth,  co.  Louth,  74. 

Barnes,  Thomas,  265. 

And  see  Byrness. 

Bamet,  65. 

Bamet,  William,  414. 

Barnetby,  co.  Lincoln,  227,  344,  345. 

Bamevile,  Humphrey,  parson  of  Enville,  275, 
382. 

,  Richard,  380. 

Barnewall,    Nicholas,    chief   justice   of  the 
King's  Bench  in  Ireland,  26. 

Bamewell,  John,  32. 

,  Nicholas,  201. 

Bamewey,  Thomas,  416. 

Barney,  John,  203,  205. 

Barnstaple,    Bamastapol,    Bernestaple,     co. 
Devon,  7,  10,  104,  319,  429. 

..,  mayor  of,  37. 

,  archdeaconry  of,  80. 

Bamston,  Bemeston,  co.  Essex,  255. 

Barnwell,  Bemewell,  co.  Cambridge,  78,  353. 

priory  of,  853. 

,  prior  and  convent  of,  68,  78,  103, 

353. 

,  prior  of,  103. 

,  John  Whaddou,  prior  of,  327,  353. 

,  John  Poket,  prior  of,  343. 

,  CO.  Northampton,  134. 

Barogh,  Borgh,  Edith,  abbess  of  Wilton,  361, 
363. 


586 


GENERAL  INDEX. 


Baron,  David,  508. 

,  John,  37,  60. 

,  Thomafi,  537. 

,  William,  13. 

Barowby  in  Whitbjstnuid,  co.  York,  318. 

Barowe,  Richard,  60,  194,  266. 

.  ,  Roger,  30. 

Barowe,  co.  Essex,  268. 

Barowhall,  co.  Essex,  268. 

Barowhill.    See  Berrow. 

Barre,  Barrej,  Barry,  John,  45,  154. 

,  Richard.  36,  204,  802. 

,  William  de  la,  273. 

Barres,  John,  parson  of  Pertenhall,  466. 

,  ,  parson  of  Middleton  Stoney, 

466. 

Barrcy,  Roger,  prior  of  Wenlok,  193. 

Barrington,  Baiynton,  co.  Gloucester,  1. 

CO.  Cambridge,  461. 

Barrock   Fell,    Barokfeld,  co.    Cumberland, 
540. 

Bnrroff  upon  Soar,  co.  Leicester,  300,  854, 
385,  478. 

Bairy,  William,  lord  of,  51. 

And  see  Barre. 

Barslyn,  Richard,  1 00. 

,  Robert,  100. 

Ban^ton,  co.  War^vick,  490. 

And  see  Barfreston. 
Bartelot,  Thomas,  423. 

,  Joan  his  wife,  423. 

,  WiUiam,  38,  423. 

Bartbotomew,  nephew  of  Francis  de  Copinis, 

59. 
Bartholomew  the  parish  chaplain  of  Littie 

Hemps  tone,  201. 

Barton,  Berton,  co.  Buckingham,  411. 

,  CO.  Lincoln,  428,  455. 

00.  Northampton,  111,  195. 

,  CO.  Westmoreland,  1 40,  534. 

,  CO.  York,  534. 

,  Little,  CO.  Lincoln,  112. 

on  Humber,  co.  Lincoln,  1,  227,  293. 

in  the  Clay,  co.  Bedford,  381. 

..-. in  Holdelilh,  376. 

-. in  Rydale,  377. 

by  Gloucester,  52,  293,  467,  519. 

by  Bristol,  co.  Gloucester,  480. 

, ,  hundred  of,  480. 

by  Marlborough,  co.  Wilts,  482. 

in  Henmcrsh,  co.  Warwick,  414. 

Bendish,  co.  Norfolk,  175. 

Turf,  CO.  Norfolk,  556. 

Barton,  Ralph,  195. 

,  John,  552. 

,  Thomas,  95,  224,  316,  502. 

Baryngton,  John,  338. 

.,  Thcmas,  338. 

,  second  baron  of  the  Exchequer 

of  Ireland,  185. 
Baseill,  Beseill,  John,  384. 


Baaeill,  Margaret  his  wife,  384. 

Edward,  384. 

,  Matthew,  S84. 

,  Peter,  884,  385. 

Basely,  Robert,  mayor  of  Winchelaea,  S8. 

Baskcrvile,  James,  86,  98,  474,  565,  568. 

Bassat,  John,  278. 

Basset,  Alan,  260. 

,  Edmund,  65. 

John,  379,  889. 

, ,  of  Chishull,  379. 

,  Nicholas,  217. 

,  Philip,  807. 

,  Reginald,  505. 

,  Richard,  508,  524. 

,  Robert,  1. 

, ,  sheriff  of  London,  296. 

,  Thomas,  260,  842. 

,  William,  185,804. 

BHssingbourn,  Bass^'ngboarne,  co.  Cambridge, 
169,  868. 

Bastard,  Robert  the,  255. 

,  William,  565. 

William  the,  of  Exeter,  33. 

Bataill,  lliomas,  257. 

Bate,  John,  dean  of  Tamworth,  48,  254. 

...'....., ,  prebendary  of  Wilmecote,  48. 

,  Peter,  50. 

,  Richard,  parson   of  Great  Billing, 

107. 

, parson  of  Crick,  107. 

,  Thomas,  575. 

Batelbailly,  in  Windsor  Forest,  44,  439. 

Batelesmere.    See  Badlesmere. 

Bateman,  William,  21. 

Bates,  John,  279. 

Bath,  CO.  Somerset,  290. 

.,  citiiens  of,  557. 

,  prior  and  convent  of,  873,  388,  386, 

894. 

Bath  and  Wells,  bishop  of.     See  Bekinton ; 
Stillington :    Barnel ;    Fitz    Joceline 
Gifl^Lrd;  Stafford. 

,  Jocelin,  bishop  of    [1206-1242],  267, 

394,  395. 

,  bishopric  of,  387,  447,  478,  496. 

,  diocese  of,  41  44,  107,  137,  283,  .370, 

478. 

Bathampton  Willy,  co.  Wilts,  889. 

Batheaston,  Bathemaston,  co.  Somerset,  117, 
225,  226,  454. 

Batheley.     See  Bathley. 

Batheresden.    See  Bethersden. 

Bathernaston.     See  Batheaston. 

Bathley,  Batheley,  co.  Nottingham,  84. 

Batson,  Ralph,  47. 

Batte,  John,  386. 

Battersea,    Patriceseie -  [co.     Surrey],    166, 
451. 

Battescombe,  John,  133. 

Battle,  CO.  Sussex,  abbey  of  St.  Martin,  290. 


GENERAL  INDEX. 


587 


Battle,  abbot  and  convent  of,  238. 

...,  Richard,  abbot  of,  205,  2a8,  290. 

,  John  Newton,  abbot  of,  266,  290. 

Baty,  Thomas,  86. 
Batyn,  John,  255. 

,  llicbard,  471. 

Batyp,  John,  230. 
Batyson,  William,  412. 
Baiiqnelle,  John  de,  310. 
I^uqcuerville.     See  BoAcherville. 
Bawdewyn,  John,  820. 
Bawedyu,  Thomas,  201 . 
Bawekewell,  Richard,  804. 
Baxster,  John,  258. 

,  Richard,  5. 

Baxter,  John,  185. 
,  Walter,  185. 

,  Master  Peter,  master  of  the  chapel 

of  St.  M'ary  Magdalene,  Kingston-on- 
Thames,  472. 

Baxtere,  Thomas,  318. 

Baybroke,  William,  280. 

Bayen,  Thomas,  47. 

Baycs,  William,  1. 

Bayford,  co.  Somerset,  443. 

Bayford,  William,  32. 

Bayhous  Fee,  co.  Lincoln,  195. 

Baylbek.     See  Beaubec. 

Bayle.     See  Bailly. 

Baylesford,  co.  Devon,  429. 

Baylly.     See  Bailly. 

Bayly.     See  Bailly. 

Baynard,  Richard,  escheator  in  the  county  of 
Essex,  450. 

Bayiiton,  John,  363-365,  368. 

Bayonne,  203,  234. 

,  ship  called  le  Clement  of,  203. 

, la  Kateryn  of,  68,  201. 

, la  Marie  of,  379. 

, le  Martyn  of,  553. 

Bayrstawe,  John,  524. 

,  .loan  his  wife,  524. 

Bayte,  Ralph,  36. 

Beachampton,  Bechampton,  co.  Buckingham, 
121. 

Bcaford.    Stte  Beauford. 

Bealasset  the  Jewess,  500. 

Beale,  William,  316. 

Boalings,  Belynges,  co.  Suffolk,  132,  180. 

Bealvoar.     See  Bel  voir. 

Beam,  Beme,  co.  Devon,  265. 

Beanley,  Beneley,  co.  Northnmborland,  113, 
340. 

Bear,  Ralph,  449 

Beaubec,  Baylbek,  alien  priory  of,  216. 

,  abbot  of,  181. 

Boauchamp,  dc  BcUo  Campo,  Anne,  119. 

,  Henry,  duke  of  Warwick,  119,  295, 

296. 

,  James,  100. 

,  John,  the  elder,  100,  101. 


Beauchamp,  John,  the  younger,  100. 

,  John,  lord  Beanchamp,  213. 

, ,  of  Powyk,  99,  564,  575. 

,  Richard,  564. 

,  Richard,  earl  of  Warwick,  93,  106, 

119,  129,296. 

Isabel,  countess  of  Warwick,  98, 106, 

119. 

,  Richard,  bishop  of  Salisbury  [  1 450- 

1481],  7,  9,  87,  95,  161,  228.  857,  361, 
863,  446,  488,  .'469,  563,  671,  575. 

» Roger,  154. 

, ,  Sibyl  his  wife,  154. 

Walter,  385. 

.....  ..., ,  Elizabeth  his  wife,  385. 

,  William,  lord  of  St.  Amand,  885. 

, Elizabeth  his  wife,  385. 

, ,  Richard  his  son,  385. 

,  Jocosa,  188,  192. 

,  Thomas,  37,  100. 

Beauchampesmaner,  co.  Dorset,  443. 

Beanchief,  oo.  Derby,  monastery  of,  280. 

,John  Down  ham,  abbot  of,  280. 

Beaudeley.     See  BewdJey. 

Beaufitz,  John,  66,  189,  889. 

,  William,  79,  108,150,  255. 

Bcaufo,  Humphrey,  67. 

,  Richard,  67. 

Beauford,  Beaford,  Beford,  Bevford,  John, 
112. 

Beaufort,  Edmuml,  duke   of  Somerset,  40, 
355. 

,  Henry,  duke  of  Somerset,  29,  32,  67, 

91,  101,  117,  220,  261,  291,  292,  447. 

, ,  bishop  of  Lincoln  [1398-1404], 

243. 

,  cardinal  bishop  of  Winchester 

[1404-1447],  190,810. 

,  John,  earl  of  Somerset,  150. 

,  duke  of   Somerset,  22,    150, 

362. 

»,  Eleanor,  duchess  of  Somerset,  113, 

141,  827,  263,  282,  455,  472. 

.Margaret,  duchess  of  Somerset,  22, 

61,  116,  150,  184,  316,  356,  427,  468, 
473. 

,  Ralph,  414. 

Beaugraunt,  Thomas,  rector  of  Bury,  129. 

Beaulieu,  Richard,  562. 

Beaulieu  Regis  [co.  Hants],  abbot  and  con- 
vent of^  236. 

Beaumaner,  co.  Leicester,  104,  354. 

Beaumaris,  Bcwemares,  co.    Anglesea,    69, 
382. 

Beaumes,    Richard  dc,    bishop    of  London 
[1155-1162],  494. 

Beaumont,  Bemont,  Bewmond,  co.  Essex,  193, 
197,  287. 

,  CO.  Cumberland,  469. 

Beaumont,  Philip,  28,  37,  201,  204,  540,  563. 

,  Henry,  525. 

,  John,  185,  187,  362,  485,  539,  .540. 


588 


GENERAL  INDEX. 


Beaumont,  Elizabeth  his  wife,  187,  862. 

...,  John,  yisconnt  Beaumont,  30,  W!),  44, 

94,  179,  361,  864,  365,  868,  426. 

, ,  Elizabeth  his  wife,  30. 

William,  539.  540. 

, ,  Joan  his  wife,  539. 

,  William.  Anscount  Beaumont,  30,  36, 

94,  103,  104,  113,  141,  179,  195,  198, 
199,  213,  227,  302,  345,  352,  354,  356, 
361. 

, ,lord  Bardolf,  86,  302. 

Joan  his  wife,  179,  355. 

Beaupie,  Peter,  148,  149. 

Beauvale,  co.  Nottingham,  prior  and  convent 
of,  106,  155,210,436. 

Beauvoor.     See  Belvoir. 
Beauxfield,  Bewesfeld,  oo.  Kent,  88. 
Bechampton.    See  Beachampton. 
Beche,  Uenrj,  374. 

John  82.545. 

Beche.     See  Highbeecb. 
Bechei,  co.  Essex,  507. 
Becket,  Thomas  a,  408,  494. 

,  Mary  his  sister,  abbess  of  Barking, 

896. 

Beckford,  Bekford,  co.  Gloucester,  181. 

,  alien  priory  of,  216. 

Beckley,  Bekley,  co.  Oxford,  7,  8, 449. 

,  letters  patent  dated  at,  525. 

Beokley,  Bekle,  Bokle,  co.  Sussex,  172. 
Becontree,  Bekentre,  Begentrowe,  co.   Essex, 
hundred  of,  223,  397. 

Bedale,  John,  76. 

,  Robert,  20. 

Beddington,  Bedyngton,  co.  Surrey,  209, 
545. 

Beddyng,  co.  Nottingham,  195. 

Bedford,  480,  480,  501. 

,  mayor  and  borgesses  of,  248. 

Bedford,  county  of,  22,  28,  55,94,  111,  112, 
125,  133,  169,  186,  282,  325,  853,  391, 
445,  446,  481. 

, ,  sheriff  of,  480, 481. 

And  see  House  ;  Rede. 
, ,  escheator  in,  224,  345,  380. 

And  see  Flegge ;  Rokes. 

, ,  oatlawries  in,  2, 174,  414,415, 

417,502,508. 

, ,  commissions  of  the  peace  in, 

559. 

Bedford,  duke  of.     See  John. 

,  Jaquetta,  duchess  of,  169,  183,  218, 

227,  538,  585,  547. 

Bedford,  Henry,  1 12. 

,  John,  802. 

,  Mary  de,  lady  de  la  Sparre,  198,212, 

269,  275. 

,  Richard,  10,  188,  204. 

,......,  auditor  of  the  duchy  of  Com* 

waU,  129. 

Bedgrove,  Bedgrave,  co.  Buckingham,  87. 

Bedingham,  co.  Norfolk,  67,  135. 


Bedlingtonshire,  co.  Northumberland,  363, 549. 

Bcdston,  William,  35. 

Bedwin,  Bcdwynde,  co.  Wilts,  328. 

Beeke,  Richard,  381. 

Beer,  scrutiny  and  supervision  of,  75,  456. 

Beeby,  Beseby,  co.  Lincoln,  5S8. 

Beeston,  Bustonby  Mileham,  co.  Norfolk,  448. 

,  Baston  by  the  sea,  co.  Norfolk,  443. 

Beestcn,  Richard,  bailiff  of  Stonedou,  66. 

Beflete.     See  Byfleet. 

Beford.     See  Beauford. 

Begbroke,  Bekkroke,  co.  Oxford,  418. 

Begentrowe.     See  Becontree. 

Begge,  Robert,  257. 

Beggebuiy,  Henry,  236. 

,  John,  286. 

,  Ralph,  286. 

,  Roger,  236. 

,  Joan,  his  wife,  236. 

,  Thomas,  236. 

Beggeworth.     See  Badgeworth. 

Bek,  Anthony,  bishop  of  Durham  [1283- 
1311],  59. 

Thomas,  492. 

,  Walter,  500. 

Bekanshop.     See  Blenkeiishop. 

Beke,  Robert,  185. 

Bekeby,  co.  Lincoln,  844,  345. 

Bekele,  Stephen,  rector  of  Orlestone,  830. 

Bekentre.    See  Becontree. 

Bekenyll,  John,  28 1 . 

Bekinton,  Thomas  de,  bishop  of  Bath  and 
Wells  [1448-1465],  18,  221,  285,  369, 
873,383,386,  887,  394,  477,  496,  57K 

Bekke,  John  son  of  Benedict  atte,  165. 

Bekkroke.    See  Begbrook. 

Bekle.    See  Beokley. 

Beckwith,  John,  308,  420. 

Belar,  Hamo,  806. 

Belchamp  St.  Paul,  Poule  Belchamp,  co. 
Essex,  4. 

Bele,  Hamo,  coroner  in  the  county  of  Kent, 
280. 

,  John,  418. 

,  Richard,  75,  456. 

Relet,  William,  307. 

Beleter,  Thomas,  3. 

Belewton.     See  Beluton. 

Belgard,  in  Ireland,  340. 

Belgrave,  Thomas,  24. 

Belhous,  Robert,  67. 

Belie,  John,  71. 

,  Peter,  71. 

Belingeham,  Henry,  224. 

Bell,  Henry,  vicar  of  East  Rasen,  218. 

Belle,  Adam,  64. 

.Bellean,  Ellowe,  Hellowe,  co.  Lincoln,  184, 
195,  468. 

Bellar,  Roger,  435,  445,  480. 

Bello  Campo,  de.     See  Beauchamp. 

Bello  Moote,  Master  John  de,  600. 


GENERAL  INDEX. 


689 


BelloTer.     See  BeWoir. 

Bcluton,    Bdton,    fielweton,    BolwetoD,    oo. 
Somerset,  U5,  226,  487,  454. 

Belper  [co.  Derby],  82. 

Belskeagh,  co.  Meath,  181. 

BelHtone,  co.  DeTon»  227,  228, 859,  372. 

Belte,  Richard,  5IG. 

Belth.    See  Bailth. 

BeltoD.     See  Bellaton. 

Belton,  Bartholomewt  411. 

,  John,  mayor  of  Cambridge,  561. 

Bclyaco,  Adam  de,  404. 

Belvoir,  Bealroor,  Beaavour,  Believer,  Bevor 
[co.  Leicester],  30,  104,  352. 

,  priory  of,  104,  352. 

Belwode,  Thomas,  451. 
Belyngeham,  Thomas,  429,  493. 
Belynges.    See  Bealiugs. 
Belyngton,  co.  Somerset,  189. 
Berne.    See  Beam. 
Benale,  in  Scotland,  64. 
Bename.     See  Binhamy. 

Bench,   Common,  justices  of,  91,  173-175, 
211,  21G,  253>259,  288,  313-820,  383, 
384,  410-420,  489,  470,  476, 485,  501- 
512,  519,  526,  531,  544. 
And  see  Ardem  ;  Ayssheton ;  Choke ; 

Cottesmore ;    Danvers ;   Hengham  ; 

Jayn ;  lattelton  ;  Moyle  ;  Nedeham  ; 

Neuton ;  Prysot. 

,  chief  justice  of.     See  Danby. 

, ,  keeper  of  the  writs  and  rolls  of. 

See  Fogg. 

, ,  office  of  chirography  in,  79. 

Bench,  King's,  1,  15,  128,  285,  456. 

, ,  marshalsea  of,  379. 

,   ,  coroner  and  attorney  of  the 

king  in,  1,  15,  457. 

, ,  chief  justice  of  •    SeeMarkham. 

,    ,     justices  of.       See  Billyng; 

Byngham ;    Fortescu ;    Laken  ;    Yel- 
Tcrton. 

Bone,  Robert,  492. 

Benedict    ap  Orono  ap  GhrniBth,  parson  of 
Corwen,  858. 

Benedict,  Hagen  son  of,  500. 

John  son  of,  atte  Bekke,  155. 

Benefield,  co.  Northampton,  480,  481,  539. 

Beneley.     See  Beanley. 

Beneste,  Thomas,  288. 

Benestedc.     See  Banstead. 

Benet,  John,  265,  451,  504. 

,  Robert,  449. 

,  William,  88,  530. 

Benetston,  John,  6. 

Benham,  William,  259. 

,  Eleanor  his  wife,  259. 

Benham  Hoc,  Holbenham,  co*   Berks,  485, 
445,481. 

Benham  Lovel,  co.  Berks,  435,  445,  481. 

Beningburgli,  William  son  of  Henry  de,  247. 

Bennayth,  Benet,  Richard,  515. 


Bennington,  Benyngton,  co.  Lincclu,  169. 

Bennington  by  Boston,  co.  Lincoln,  1 72. 

Bennington,  Long,  Longebemyngton,  co.  Lin- 
coln, alien  priory  of,  161. 

Benselyn.     See  Beuselyn. 

Benstede,  co.  Surrey,  481. 

Bensyngton,  co.  Oxford,  287. 

Bent,  Roger,  65,  100. 

Benteley,  Richard,  288. 

Bentham,  co.  York,  445,  461. 

Bentlay,  Christopher,  344. 

Bentley,  co.  Essex,  1 93. 

,  Great,  197. 

Berant,  Williom,  509. 

Berbelond,  co.  York,  85. 

Berbum.     See  Barbon. 

Berby,  Thomas,  288. 

Bercombe.    See  Barcombe. 

Berde,  John,  ^^04. 

,  Richard,  440. 

,  Robert,  411. 

Berdefeld.    .See  Baidficld. 

Berdesaland,  co.  Westmoreland,  169. 

Berdesfeld.     ^See  Bardfield. 

Berdesley,  co.  Gloucester,  131. 

Berdsey,  Robert,  35. 

Bere,  Eyngesbere,  Westbere,  co.  Southamp- 
ton, forest  of,  56,  106. 

Bere,  John,  115,  500,  502. 

,  Joan  his  wife,  115. 

,  John,  sheriff  of  Cornwall,  545. 

,  Thomas,  100,  101,  206,  389,  653,  561, 

563. 
, ,  the  elder,  488. 

William,  889,  561. 

Berefeld,  oo.  Berks,  813. 
Bereforth.    See  Barford. 
Beremaker,  John,  420. 
Bereton,  co.  Buckingham,  77. 
Berewik,  Hugh,  92. 
Bergen,  North,  286. 
Bergh,  Walter,  506. 
Bergholt,  Berkholt,  oo.  Suffolk,  416. 
Berham.     5ee  Barham. 
Berkamstede.     See  Berkhampstead. 
Berkeford.    See  Barford. 
Berkeley,  co.  Gloucester,  414,  426. 

Berkeley,  Barkeley,  Edward,  429,  444,  493, 
516,  554,  572. 

,  Katharine,  549. 

,  James,  98,  564. 

, ,  lord  of  Berkeley,  426. 

,  Maurice,  87,  38,  67,   188,  234,444, 

492,  549,  552,  553. 

> ,  sheriff  of  Gloucester,  441. 

of  Bever^ton,  202,  564,  571, 

,  William,  260,  491,  549. 

, ,  his  Hon,  259,  260. 

> ,  lonl  of  Berkeley,  426,  564. 

Berker,  John,  528. 

Berkeswell,  co.  Warwick,  849,  489. 


o90 


GENERAL  INDEX. 


Bcrkeuwell,  William,  dean  of  St.   Mary  and 

All  Sainte,  Warwick,  80. 
Berkcweye.     See  Uarkwaj. 
Berkhampstead,  BarohamBtede,  Bercanutede, 

CO.  Hertford,  9,  19, 27,  49,  54.  69,  157, 

168,  188,  210,  218. 

,  hospital  of  St.  John  the  Baptist,  60. 

,   ,  of  St.  John  the  Erangelist,  60. 

Berking.    See  Barking. 

Berks,  county  of.  28,  64,  75,  94,  98,  110,  118. 

123,  126,  188,  149,  154,  160,  203,  263, 

278,  303,  304,  846,  347.  389,  390,  891, 

479,  530. 
.sheriff  of,  37,  51,58,  203,  390,  480, 

526,  580. 

And  see  Hareoourt. 

,  escheator  in,  185,  290,  291,  384,  345, 

477. 

^fu/ <e«  Lynde ;  Stokes. 

' ,  outlawries  in,  2,  316,  412,  413,  418. 

..I.......  commissions  of  the  peace  in,  559. 

justices  of  gaol  delivery  in,  874. 

Bermondsey,  co.  Surrey,  410,  451. 

charter  dated  at,  400. 

,  prior  and  convent  of,  162. 

,  John,  prior  of,  162. 

, ,  ahhot  of,  410. 

Bermyngham,  Philip,  215. 

Richard,  117,  257,  357. 

Bemak.    See  Bamack. 

Bernard,  John,  180,  814,  318,  526. 

,  William,  818. 

,  Robert  son  of,  393. 

,  Thomas.  578. 

Berne,  co.  Dorset,  108. 
Beruers,  John,  of  Bemers,  132. 

WUliam,  20. 

^nd  tee  Bourchier. 

Ikrnestaple.    See  Barnstaple. 

Bemeston.    See  Barnston. 

Bemewall,  Barnabas,  justice  of  the   King's 

Bench  in  Ireland,  11. 

,  Bobert,  lord  of  Trimleston,  188. 

Bernewell.     See  Barnwell. 

Bernewell,  John,  12. 

Bemewode.  co.  Buckingham,  forest  of,  466. 

Bemyng,  Bernard,  175. 

Berowdale,  Richard,  492. 

Berrow,  Barowhill,  co.  Worcester,  56. 

Berry  Green,  co.  Hertford,  338. 

Bertelet,  John,  174. 

Bertet,  Amanywe,  581. 

Berton.    See  Barton ;  Burton. 

Berton,  William,  199. 

Berton  Mull,  co.  Devon,  424. 

Bertram,  William.  410,530. 

Bertrem.  Henry,  81. 

Bertyn,  Bobert,  19. 

Berwe,  Thomas,  147. 

Bcrwick-on-Tweed,  440. 

.,..,  burgesses  of,  390. 


lierwick-on-Twe«d,  charters  dated  at,  156. 157, 
166,  2k8. 

Berwik.  John.  848. 
Berwyke,  John,  148.  288. 

Joan  his  wife,  288. 

Beryngton,  Simon,  parson  of  Peuplingue,  428. 

.Thomas,  208. 

Beseden.  John,  490. 

BeseUl.     See  Baseill. 

Besege.  Richard,  857. 

Besenby,  John.  259. 

Besiles,  Thomas.  274. 

Beskewode,  Beskhall  Wood,  co.  Nottingham, 

139,  857,  460. 
Besumby,  John,  259. 

Betchworth.East,Estbecheflworth.oo.  Surrey, 
88,  466,  548. 

West,  Westbechesworth,  co.  Surrey, 

88,  465,  548. 
Beterley,  Edward.  201. 
Beteryng,  Richard,  211. 
Bethersden,  Batheresden,  oo.  Kent,  362. 
Bethewater,  John,  502. 
Bethewyn,  John.  418. 
Bethom,  William,  515. 
Bethum,  Edward,  34. 
Betley,  Thomas,  204. 

Bettcsthorn,  188. 

Betton,  Straungebetton,  co.  Salop.  317. 

Betty,  John,  282. 

Bcuselyn,  Benselyn,  William,  prior  of  Mod- 
bury,  199.  636. 

Bever.     See  Belvoir. 

Beverley,  co.  York,  81,  208.  281,  531. 

,  burgesses  of,  164. 

,  commission  ol  the  peace  in,  134. 

pavagefor,  63, 

letters  patent  dated  at,  834. 

,  St.  John's,  canon  of.     See  Duffeld . 

,  prebend  of  St.  Katharine  in,  20. 

,  John  Msnnsel,  provost  of,  408, 

494. 

Beverley,  John,  214. 

,  Thomas,  606. 

William,  parson  of  Leveland,  387, 

478. 

Bevford.    See  Beauford. 

Bevile,  John,  201. 

B^villam.    See  Bibleham. 

Bevour.    See  Belvoir. 

Bevylham.     See  Bibleham. 

Bevyschill,  co.  Devon,  265. 

Bewdley,  Beaudeley,  [co.  Worcester],  letters 
patent  dated  at.  44,  82. 

Bewcmares.    See  Beaumaris. 

Bewesfeld.    See  Beauxfield. 

Beuford.     See  Beaufort. 

Bewick,  Beuwyk,  co.  Northumberland,  199. 

Beworthy,  Beuworthy,  co.  Devon,  872. 

Bewthek.     See  Budock. 

Beynton,  John,  283,  284. 


GENERAL  INDEX. 


591 


Biblebam,  BeTillam,  Bevjiham,  co.  Sassez, 

138. 
Bicester,  Burcestre,  co.   Oxfonl,  276,    306, 

418. 
Bickenhill,  Chyrchbykjnhull^  co.  Wanvick, 

489. 
Bicker,  Biker,  Bjker,  co.  Lincoln,  103,  169, 

352. 
Bickley,  Bikelye,  Bykelie,  co.  Devon,  149. 
Bicknor,  Brikenore,  co.  Gloucesler,  169,  533. 
Biddlestone,  Bitlesden,  co.  Northumberland, 

265. 
Bide,  Joan,  473. 
Bideford,  co.  Devon,  265. 
Bidelesgate,  Bichard,  41. 
Bidfield,  Budefeld,  co.  Gloucester,  448. 
Bidvrell,  Robert,  510. 
Bigenhull.     See  Backnell. 
Bigg,  Boger,  185,  217. 
,  William,  mayor  of  Canterbury,  101, 

138. 

Bignelde,  John,  452. 

Bignell,  John,  365,  368. 

Bignor,  Byggener,  co.  Sossez,  443. 

Bigod,  Bygod,  Bartholmew  de,  160. 

,  Hugh  le,  307. 

,  Ralph,  228. 

, knight,  228. 

,  Roger,  earl  of  Norfolk,  309. 

Bikelye.    See  Bickley. 

Biker.    See  Bicker. 

Bikerton,  98. 

Bilhagh,  Billowe,  Bilwode,  co.  Nottingham, 
460. 

Bilham,  Biloham,  co.  York,  376. 

Biliote,  Angustine,  518. 

BilleBdon,  co.  Leicester,  486. 

BiUesdon,  John,  417. 

Billesley,  co.  Warwick,  450. 

Billing,  Billyng,  Great  [co.  Northampton], 

107, 179. 
Billingborough,    Billingburgh,    co     Lincoln, 

179. 

Billyng,   Thomas,   283,   273,    452,   488-490, 
529,  530,  559,  560, 565,  568,  573. 

,  ,  justice  of  the  King's  Bench, 

836. 

Billyngford,  James,  336,  433. 
Bilney,  West  [co.  Norfolk],  435. 
Bilney,  Geoffrey,  485. 

Bilsington,  co.  Kent,  prior  and  convent  of, 
494. 

,  Robert,  prior  of,  494. 

Bilton,  CO.  Northumberland,  199,  340. 

,  CO.  Warw'ck,  3. 

Bilton,  Gilbert,  406 

Bilwode.    See  Hilnagh. 

Binham,  Bynham,  co.  Norfolk,  175. 

Binhamy,  Bename,  co.  Cornwall,  372. 

Bingham,  William,  parson  of  St.  John  Zakarie, 
London,  217,  218. 

And  see  Byngharo. 


Bireham,  co.  Norfolk  131. 

Birches,  co.  Devon,  108. 

Birches,  Richard,  490. 

Birchington,  co.  Kent,  447. 

Birchover,  Byrchour  [co.  Derby],  31. 

Bird,  Byrd,  Alan,  129,  450. 

,......,  mayor  of  Newcastle-on  Tyne, 

233. 

, ,  the  younger,  553. 

,  John,  172,  387. 

William,  5,  9,  259,  450,  553. 

, ,  parson  of  A 11  Saints,  Dorchester, 

379. 

Birdforth,  Bridforth,  co.  York,  412. 

Birkehill,  Little,  co.  Buckingham,  6. 

Birkland,  co.  Nottingham,  460. 

Birling,  Byrlyng,  co.  Kent,  506. 

,  CO.  Northumberland,  199,  340. 

,  CO.  Sussex,  104,  180,  354,  356. 

Birlyng,  John,  318,  418. 

,  Alice  his  wife,  818,  418. 

Birmingham,    Bermyngham,    co.     Warwick, 
419. 

Birthorpe,  co.  Lincoln,  103,  352. 

Biscay,  in  Spain,  279. 

Biset,  Manasser,  171,  306,  494. 

,  Thomas,  322. 

Bisham,   Bustlesham,  co.   Berks,   prior  and 
convent  of,  152. 

,  letters  patent  dated  at,  214,  231. 

Bishopsbridge,  Roger  of,  archbishop  of  York 
[1154-1181],  392. 

Bishop's  Lynn,  co.  Norfolk,  28,  32,  81,  141, 
142,317,319,414,441,523. 

,  port  of,  188,  211,  303,  464. 

guild  of  St.  George  in,  141. 

Bishops  Nympton,  Bishops  Nymet,  co.  Devon, 
212. 

Bishopstone,  Bisshopeston,  co.  Sussex,  251. 

Bishop's  Waltham,  co.  Southampton,  202. 

Bisley,  Bisle,  Byslegh,  co.  Gloucester,  129, 
131. 

,  hundred  of,  131. 

,  CO.  Surrey,  423,  459. 

Bisshop,  Nicholas,  535,  542. 

Bisshopesbere,  in  Windsor  forest,  488. 

Bisshoppesdale,  William,  mayor  of  Newcastle- 
ou-Tyne,  558. 

Bisshopestre,  Simon,  530. 

Bitheley,  Thomas,  205. 

Bitlesden.     iSiee  Biddlestone. 

Bitton,  Button,  co.  Gloucester,  382. 

Blftckborough   Bolhay,   Blakebomeboty,  co. 
Devon,  10,  104. 

Black  Callerton,  co.  Northumberland,  265. 

Blackdown,  Blakedon,  co.  Dorset,  51. 

Blackball,  co.  Cumberland,  140,  534. 

Blackmore,  Blakmore,  co.  Essex,  193. 

,  CO.  Wilts,  forest  of,  384. 

Blacktoft,  Blaktofte,  co.  York,  508. 

Bladon,  co.  Oxford,  418. 


592 


GENERAL  INDEX. 


Blaenllyfni,  Blaynlleveny,  co.  Brecknock,  268. 

Blagdon,  Blakedon,  co.  Somerset,  7,  10,  104. 

Blakcastell,  co.  Meath,  124,  340. 

Blake,  Peter,  32. 

,  John,  32,  301,  452,  468,  500. 

And  see  Blake^  -,  Blokke. 
Blakebomeboty.    See  Blackborongh  Bolhay. 
Blakeboorne,  John,  509. 
Blakedon.     8e6  Blagdon ;  Blackdown. 
Blakedon,  James,  bishop  of  Bangor,    [1453- 

1464],  857. 
Blakeham,  Thomas,  514. 
Blakehay,  John,  490. 
Blakeman,  Robert,  53. 
Blakeney,  co.  Norfolk,  850. 
..........  mayor  of,  350. 

Blakeney,  John,  65,  297,  448. 

,  Isabel  his  wife,  66. 

Blakenham,  co.  Suffolk,  108,  150. 
Blakesley,  Blakevesley    [co.   Northampton], 

174. 
Blakeston,  Edward,  553. 

,  William,  553. 

Blakevesley.    See  Blakesley. 

Blakey,  Geoffrey,  35,  528. 

And  see  Blake ;  Blakke. 
BlaVbed,  John,  75. 
,  Thomas,  539. 

Blakke,  William,  390. 

And  see  Blake  ;  Blakey. 
Blaktoryngton.    See  Torrington. 
Blancombe  [in  parish  of  Honiton],  co.  Devon, 

286,  367. 
Bland,  Thonyis,  2,  381. 
Blanerhasset,  Robert,  parson   of  Beaumont, 

469. 
Blanford,  John,  mayor  of  Shaftesbury,  85. 
Blankechapelton.     See  London. 
Blase,  William,  511. 
Blatherwyke,  co.  Northampton,  315. 
Blaunchmains,  Robert,  earl  of  Leicester,  346, 

378,  463. 
Blaxton,  Edward,  450. 
Blaymyre  [co.  Cumberland],  434. 
Blaynlleveny.     See  Blaenllyfni. 
Bleant,  Simon,  411. 

Blcdisloe,  Blydeslowe,  co.  Gloucester,  169. 
Bledlow,  CO.  Buckingham,  73,  89,  108,  142. 
Blemell,  Richard,  440. 
Blengate,  co.  Kent,  199. 

,  hundred  of,  403. 

Blenkenshop,  Bekanshop,  Ralph,  575. 

Bletcliingley,  Blechyngle,  co.  Surrey,  458. 

BlethedoD,  co.  Gloucester,  169. 

Blewet,  John,  173. 

Blida.     See  Blythe. 

Blisworth,  co.  Northampton,  266,  326. 

Blokcsworth.     See  Blox worth. 

Blome,  Nicholas,  463. 

Blossom,  John,  45 G. 


Blount,    Blountc,    John,    escheator    in    the 
county  of  Worcester,  553. 

,  Humphrey,  570. 

,  Ralph,  lord  Mount  joy,  treasurer  of 

the  Exchequer,  516. 
,  Thomas,  13,  26,  30,  84,  39,  101,  111, 

195,  205,  227,  344,  567. 

,  sheriff  of  Lincoln,  264,  295. 

,  treamirer  of  Calais^  S56. 

,  Walter,  of  Mounljoy,  99,  34, 35,  66, 

102,  134,  135,  270,  304,  490,  554,  562, 
572. 

, ,  created  lord  Moontjoy,  444. 

, ,  treasurer  of  England,  356,  513. 

, ,  treasurer  of  Calais,  25,  41,  60, 

211,  272,  288,  294,  356,  378,  438. 

,  William,  31,  135,  304,  562. 

Blower,  John,  4. 

,  Thomas,  101* 

,WilHam,  141. 

Bloxham,  Bloxam,  co.  Oxford,  150,  298. 

Bloxham,  Thomas,  parson  of  the  church  of 

St.  Nichasius  in  Picardy,  551. 
Blozworth,  Blokesworth,  co.  Dorset,  436. 
Bluet,  John,  78,  228,  443. 

Nicholas,  443. 

,  J3an  his  wife,  443^ 

,  Walter,  443. 

Blundeville,  Thomas  de,  bishop  of  Norwich 
[1226-1286],  895. 

Blunt,  Thomas,  503,  567. 

,  Anne  his  wife,  503. 

Blyaunt,  Simon,  411. 

Blydeslowe.    See  Bledisloe. 

Blythe,  letters  patent  dated  at,  8,  17,  835. 

Blythe,  co.  Nottingham,  prior  of,  74. 

,  Robert  Scotes,  prior  of,  469. 

Blythe,  John  de,  500. 

,  Richard,  16. 

..., ,  William,  53. 

Blythcdon,  co.  Gloucester,  533. 

Blyton,  CO.  Lincoln,  471,  544. 

Blyton,  John  de,  mayor  of  Lincoln,  244. 

Boarhunt,  Boroughunt,  co.  Southampton,  88, 
465,  548. 

Bochaston.     See  Botcheston. 

Boeher,  John,  52,  321. 

,  William,  parson  of  Padworth,  357. 

Booking,  Bokkyng,  co.  Essex,  255,  449. 

Boclond.     See  Buckland. 

Bocton.     See  Boughton. 

Bodelegh.     See  Budleigh. 

Bodenham,  Robert,  504. 

Bodennek.     See  Bodinnock. 

Bodesdal,  co.  Suffolk,  443. 

Bodinnock,    Bodennek,    co.    Cornwall,  202, 
488. 

Bodmin,  co.  Cornwall,  488,  502, 537. 

priory  of  St.  Petroc,  441. 

, ,  prior  and  convent  of,  264,  441. 

, ,  Thomas,  prior  of,  204,  441, 


GENERAL  INDEX. 


693 


Bodnigan,  co.  Cornwall,  477,  488,  526. 
BodragaD,  Henry,  28,  86,  20],  202,  452,  488, 

526,  589. 

,  Joan  his  wife,  539. 

Bodolgan,  Thmnaa,  28. 
Bodulgate,  Thomas,  278. 
Body,  Andrew,  256. 

,  John,  491. 

Bodyn,  Thomas,  127. 

Boerton.    See  Bourton. 

Bogeley,  Nicholas,  6. 

Bohun,  Humphrey  de,  earl  of  Hereford  and 

Essex,  59,  895,  407,  460. 
Boisuylle,  John,  484. 
Bokard,  in  the  diooese  of  Terouanne,  322. 
Bokeham.     See  Bookham. 
Bokeland,  William,  206. 
Bokelond  Fyllegh.    See  Buckland  Filleigh. 
Bokenham.    See  Backenham. 
Bokenhamj  John,  52. 

,  Thomas,  52. 

Bokle.     See  Beekley. 
Bokyngham.     See  Buckingham. 

Bokyngham,  John  de,  bishop  of    Lincoln, 

[1862-1897],  162,  243. 
Bolde,  Henry,  529. 

,  Robert,  60,  84,  421. 

Boldron,  BoUenin,  co.  York,  169. 
Bole,  John,  173. 
,  Nicholas,  547. 

,  Master  Richard,  prebendary  of  Hast- 
ings, 22. 

William,  319. 

Bolebeth,  Hugh  de,  62. 

Bolemero,  Bertram  de,  247. 

Boles,  Laurence,  415. 

Boleyn,  John,  135, 

, ,  the  elder,  135. 

, ,  the  younger,,185. 

,  Thomas,  471. 

,  William,  30. 

,  Geoffrey,  42,94,  141,  507. 

Bolingbroke,  co.  Lincoln,  487. 

BoUeron.    See  Boldron. 

BoUok,  John,  422. 

Bollyng.    See  Bowling. 

Bollyng,  Robert,  27 1,  476. 

Bolney,  co.  Sussex,  520. 

Bolney,  Bartholomew,  205,  428,  429,  451, 
489,  498,  574. 

Bolour,  John,  231. 

Bolsover,  Bolesore,  co.  Derby,  220,  225,  226. 

Boltesham,  William  de,  522. 

Bolteston,  co.  Westmoreland,  169. 

Boltby,  CO.  York,  39,  468. 

Bolton,  James,  492. 

,  Joan,  327. 

,  John, 107. 

,  Dan  William,  288. 

And  see  Scrope. 
Bolton  Percy,  co.  York,  104,  354. 

u    86914. 


Bolweton.     See  Belluton. 

Bolyndene.    See  Bullingdon. 

Boljrngton,  John,  mazshal  of  the  chief  J)ench, 
Exchequer  and  (Common  Bench  of 
Ireland,  96. 

Bonaautre,  Richard,  317. 

Bonby,  Bondeby,  co.  Lincoln,  155,  225,  226. 

Bonde,  Richard,  204. 

Bondeby.     See  Bonby. 

BoDeasyne,  Leonard,  270. 

Bonevile.     See  Bonvile. 

Boney,  co.  Nottingham,  278. 

Boninsegnya,  Leonard,  270. 

Bouour,  William,  174. 

Bon  Repos,  alien  abbot  of,  46, 117,  218. 

Bonsall,  Bonsai t  [co.  Derby],  31. 

Bonsergeaunte,  Robert,  483. 

Bonthorpe,  Burnthorpe,  co.  Lincoln,  184. 

Bontyng,  John,  429. 

William,  429. 

Bonyile,  Thomas,  172,  204,  561,  568. 

,  Cicely,  44,  108,  118. 

,  William,  of  Chuton,  lord    Bonyile, 

lord  Harrington,  44,  108,  118,  144. 

,  William,  108. 

, ,  Elizabeth  his  wife,  108. 

,  William,  lord  Harrington,  108. 

,  Katharine  his  wife,  108. 

Boogge,  John,  374. 

Bookham,  Bokeham,  Great,  co.  Surrey,  410, 
545. 

Booler,  John,  290. 

Boothby,  Botheby,  co.  Lincoln,  145,  506. 

Bordeaux,  201,  234,  515. 

,  dean  of  St.  Severin.    See  Taster. 

,  charters  dated  at,  165,  250. 

Bordesley  by  Aston,  co.  Warwick,  186,  362, 
541. 

Bordesley,  co.  Worcester,  monastery  of  Si. 
Mary,  357. 

,  abbot  and  conrent  of,  357. 

,  W.  abbot  of,  357. 

Bordon,  Robert,  889. 

,  William,  889. 

Boiecote,  co.  Cornwall,  372. 
Borell,  Robert,  5. 

,  Walter,  535,  542,  543. 

Boreton,  co.  Deron,  8. 
Borewell.     See  Borwell. 
Borgh.    See  Barogh. 
Borley,  co.  Essex,  416. 
Borodale,  William,  303. 
Berogh,  William,  143. 
Boroneshele.     See  Bosomxeal. 

Borough,  Christopher,  provost  of  the  college 
of  St.  William,  York,  383. 
And  see  Burgh. 
Boroughunt.    See  Boarhunt. 

Borrowby,    Borowby    in    Whitbystrand,   co. 
York,  511. 

Boryngton.     See  Burrington,  212. 

P  P 


694 


GENERAL  INDEX. 


BoBcherville,  Baaquierville,  St.  George,  in 
Normandy,  abbot  and  convent  of,  158. 

Bosenneshele.     See  Bosomzeal. 

Bosewell.    S««Bo8well. 

Boseworth,  Master  Richard,  parson  of  Great 
Billing,  179. 

, ,  parson  ofBroughtonAstley,  179. 

Bosham,  Bosam,  co.  Sussex,  212. 
Bosomzeal.  Boroneshele,  Bosenneshele  [parish 

of  Dittisham],  eo.  Devon,  64,  192. 
Bossu,  Robert,  earl  of  Leicester,  346, 463, 494. 
Bost,  John,  253. 
Boston,  CO.  Lincoln,  47,  71,  115,  169,  227, 

256,  295,  351,  412,  485,  487. 

,  gild  of  Corpus  Christi  in,  856. 

,  port  of,  12,  13.  20,  107, 117, 129,  21.% 

222,  294,  295,  803,  886,  432,  440,  514. 

,  letters  patent  dated  at,  567. 

Boston,  John,  537. 

,  John  de,  244. 

/Walter,  185. 

Bosam,  Boson,  Bdmond,  28. 
BosweU,  Bosewell,  John,  140,  421,  458. 
Botche8ton,Bochaston,co.  Leicester,  104,354. 
Boteler.  Botiller,  Botillier,  Henry,  66,  450, 

459  574. 
John,  75,  98,  117,  196,  199,209,228, 

452,  490,  560. 

, ,  Margaret  his  wife,  209. 

,  Margaret,  prioress  of  Lillechurch,  194. 

....,  Ralph,  lord  of  Sudeley,  44,  72,  172, 

191,  222,  255,  429,  439,  493,  588,  549, 

670. 
^ ,  chief  butler  of  England,  5. 

,  Richard,  448. 

, ,  Matilda  his  wife,  448. 

,  Robert,  172. 

,WilUam,  117. 

And  see  Botiller ;  Butler, 
fiotelesford.    See  Bottesford. 
Botell.    See  Botyll. 
Boteman,  William,  411. 
Boterworth,  Alexander,  335,  337. 
BotiUer,  Walter,  185. 
And  see  Boteler. 
Bothe,  John,  102,  857,  662. 

,  the  king's  secretary,  348. 

,  bishop  of  Exeter,  [1465-1478], 

45i5,  484,  561,  663,  572,  573. 

,  master  of  the  collegiate  church 

of  Manchester,  484. 

,  chancellor  of  the  University  of 

Cambridge,  561. 
Laurence,  bishop  of  Durham,  [1457- 

1476],  11,  73,  107,  118,  115,  825,  847, 

874,  875,  508,  588,  576. 

,  Robert,  559. 

[ ,  Thomas,  abbot  of  St.  Mary's,  York, 

381,863. 

William,  archbishop  of  York,  [1452- 

1464],  11,  88, 184,  206,  289,  296,  308, 

826,  827,  829,  341,  370,  434,  563,  569, 
576,  577. 


Botheby.     See  Boothby. 

Botborahaull,  co.  York,  332. 

Bothwell,  in  Scotland,  charter  dated  at,  .'557. 

Botloe,  Bottelowe,  co.  Gloucester,  385. 

Boton,  John,  5. 

Botreaux,  William,  98,  99,  134,  315,  .'571,  575. 

, ,  lord,  505. 

Botreux,  Robert,  504. 

Botte,  John,  415. 

Bottesford,  Botdesford,  co.  Leicester,  104, 

362. 
Bottisham,  Bottesham,  co.  Cambridge,   131, 

196. 
Botiisham  Lode,  co.  Cambridge,  195,  369. 
Botyler,  John,  434. 
Botyll,  Botell,  Richard,  89. 

,  Robert,  prior  of  the  hospital  of  St. 

John  of  Jerusalem  in  England,  102, 
115,  153,  567. 
Boucher,  Richard,  508. 

, ., ,  Joan  his  wife,  508. 

Boudon.    See  Bowdon. 

Boughton,  Bocton  Allulph,  oo.  Kent,  830. 

, under  le  Bleen,  co.  Kent,  330. 

Boughton,  Thomas,  2,  178,  508  . 

, , ,  parson  of  Norton  Davy,  174. 

Boulogne,  honour  of,  858,  445,  480. 
Boultham,  Bultam,  co.  Lincoln,  371. 
Bourchier,  Bourgchier,  Henry,  265. 

, ,  viscount  Bourchier,  earl  of  Essex, 

65,  77,  88,  99,  182,  184,  146,  193,  269, 

279,  804,  821,  346,  891,  418,  429,  488, 
489,  498  620,  529,  638,  664,  668,  578. 

,......,  treasurer  of  the  Exchequer,  9, 

96. 

Isabel  his  wife,  countess  of  Essex, 

and  Eu,  the  king's  aunt,  97,  145,  198, 
269,  321,  620. 

,  Humphrey.  84,  632,  562. 

.., ,  of  Cromwell,   101,  102,  206, 

273,  279,  301,  460,  483,  488,  489,  491, 
552,  562,  566,  567,  669,  573,  574. 

^ ,  Joan  his  wife,  273. 

,  John.  190,  566,  574. 

,  lord  of  Bemers,  29,  84,  38,  66, 

180,  201,  282,  347,  391,  488,  489,  682, 

633,  559,  578. 

,  constable  of  Windsor  CasUe, 

l7,90. 

,  Thomas,  379,  476,  588. 

,   bishop  of  Ely    [1444-1464], 

415. 

....,    archbishop     of    Canterbury 

I    [1464-1486],  7,  9,  16,  22,  27,  96,  107, 

132,  179,  194.  206,  266,  278,  288,  284, 
I  289,  298,  808,  322,  855,  358,  860,  870, 

891,  428,  429,  444,  450,  498,  583,  561, 
I  566,  567,  578,  574. 

,  William,  19,  45,  257,  881,  664. 

,  Katharine  his  wife,  257,  381. 

,  William,  of  Fitzwarren,  18,  27,  84, 
87,98,  202,204,  282,  266,303,  488, 
662,  570. 


GENERAL  INDEX. 


595 


Boure,  John  son  of  WillUxn  de  la,  458. 
Bourehall  in  HediDgham,  co.  Sssex,  197. 
Boureman,  John,  298. 

,  Thomas,  203. 

Bonrhenton.     See  Bower  Heaton. 

Boarne,  charter  dated  at,  405. 

Boome,  William,  4. 

Bonmeby,  Eustace,  289. 

Boarser,  Roger  de,  287,  288. 

Bourton,  Boerton,  co.  Buckingham,  181,  505. 

BousmoUns,  charter  dated  at,  497. 

Boutreanlx.    See  Hungerford. 

BoTere,  John,  319. 

Bovy  Tracy,  co.  Devon,  7,  9,  104. 

Bow  bridge,  chapel  of  St.  Katharine  upon, 

CO.  Essex,  35. 
Bowdeler,  William,  62. 
Bowdoa,  West,  co.  Devon,  372. 

,  Little,  00.  Northampton,  187, 258, 362. 

Bowebrigge.    See  Bow  bridge. 

Bowedon,  John,  490. 

Bowell,  Richard,  852. 

Bowelles  in  Kirtlington,  co.  Oxford,  473. 

Bower,  Richard,  289. 

Bower  Heaton,   Bourhenton,   co.   Somerset, 

135. 
Bowes,  CO.  York,  169. 

Bowes,  Bo wys.  Bowse,  William,  79,  848,  518. 

, ,  the  younger,  536. 

...; , ,  the  elder,  sheriff  of  Northum* 

berland,  536. 

,  Matilda  his  wife,  536. 

Bowesy,  William,  248. 

Bowet,  Nicholas,  567. 

Bowey,  John,  173. 

Bowling,  Bollyng,  co.  Tork,  271,  476. 

Bowlond,  Robert,  280. 

Bowman,  John,  232. 

,  Peter,  10,  385. 

Richso^  37. 

Bowse.    See  Bowes. 

Bowyer,  Edmund,  206. 

,  Richard,  warden  of  the  hospital  of 

Hilborough,  359. 

,  Robert,  412. 

Bowynson,  Adrian,  269. 

Bowys.    See  Bowes. 

Box,  James,  452. 

John,  347. 

William,  452. 

Boyce,  Walter.  68. 

Boyly,  Simon,  418. 

Boyne,  William,  233. 

Boynton,  John,  37. 

Boyton,  Bowton,  co.  Cornwall,  872. 

,  CO.  Wilts,  444 

Boyyile,  John  de,  486. 

,  John,  313,  566,  570. 

Brabant,  187,517. 

Braboume,  Braubom,  co.  Kent,  25,  86,  429, 
493. 


Braeas.     See  Broken. 

Bracebridge,   Bracebigge,  co.    Lincoln,   371, 
499. 

Bracebrigge,  Brasbrigge,  William,  351,  487. 
Bracewell,  Brasewell,  co.  York,  455. 

Brackenthwaite,  Brakanwayte,  co.   Cumber- 
laud,  140,  534. 

Brackley,  Brakley,  co.  Northampton,  hospital 
of  Sl  John  Baptist  at,  28. 

, ,  Henry  Grene,  master  of,  28. 

Bracy,  John,  the  elder,  326. 

Bracy  Manor,  co.  Buckingham,  367. 

Bradbrigge,  Thomas,  328. 

Bradbury,  Robert,  344. 

Braddyng,  John,  470. 

Bradefeld.    See  Bardfield. 

Bradenstoke,  co.  Wilts,  John  Chvnnok,  prior 
of,  253. 

,  John,  prior  of,  2. 

Bradewater.     See  Broadwater. 

Bradeworth,  Manser  de,  500. 

Bradfield,  Monkes  Bradfeld,  co.  Suffolk,  109. 

,  CO.  Norfolk,  502. 

Combust,  Brentbradfeld,  co.  Suffolk, 

108,  286,  448. 

Bradford,  co.  York,  469. 

Bradford,  William,  206,  848,  577. 

Bradley,  co.  Lincoln,  184,  224,  427,  468,  473. 

Bradley,  Nicholas,  32. 

Bradninch,  co.  Devon,  315,  439. 

Bradridge,  Braddorigge,  co.  Cornwall,  372. 

Bradshawe,  William,  57. 

Bradstone,  Braddeston,  co.  Devon,  372. 

Bradwater.     See  Broadwater. 

Bradway,  Robert,  175. 

Bradwall,  John,  280. 

Bradwell,  co.  Buckingham,  369, 487. 

,  CO.  Essex,  80,  92,  126,  169,  287,  480, 

481,  535. 

Bradworthy,  co.  Devon,  372. 

Braffelde,  492. 

Braintree,  Branketre,  co.  Essex,  255. 

Braithwaite,  co.  Cumberland,  540. 

Brakanwayte.     See  Brackenthwaite. 

Brakley.    See  Brackley. 

Bramble,  Brambbeleye,  co.  Essex,  308. 

Bramburgh,  Hugh,  263. 

Bramley,  Thomas,  abbot  of  St.  Peter,  Hyde 
by  Winchester,  387. 

Bramme,  John,  270. 
Brampton,  co.  Suffolk,  232. 

,  CO.  Cumberland,  140,  534. 

,  Church,  CO.  Northampton,  43 1 . 

,  Great,  co.  Northampton,  111. 

And  see  Branton. 
Brampton,  Robert,  141. 

,  Thomas,  30. 

Bramston,  Broms^on,  John,  566. 
Brancepeth,  Brauncepath,  co.  Durham,  122. 
Brandesbunon,  co.  York,  509. 
BraudeHton,  Braunston,  co.  Suffolk,  180,  442. 

p  P  2 


r 


r 


596 


GENERAL  INDEX. 


Brandon,  John,  141. 

,  William,  75. 

,  Elizabeth  his  wife,  75. 

Branham,  377. 

Branketre.    See  Braintree. 

Branset.    See  Brenxct. 

Branston,  co.  Lincohi,  499. 

Brantinghey  [co.  Hertford],  24. 

Branton,  Brampton,  co.  Northumberland,  265. 

Bras,  Thomas,  319. 

Brasbrigge,    See  Bracebrigge. 

Brasbroune,  John,  the  elder,  492. 

, ,  the  younger,  492. 

Brasewell.    See  Bracewell. 

Brasyer,  John,  172. 

,  Kichard,  mayor  of  Norwich,  302. 

Bratton,  John,  532. 

,  Simon,  532. 

Brauliom.     See  Braborne. 

Braughing,  co.  Hertford,  292,  296,  356,  456. 

Branghyng,  Thomas,  228. 

Braoncegate,  James,  500. 

Btauncepath.    See  Brancepeth. 

Brannche,  John,  88,  100. 

Braunston,  co.  Northampton,  520. 

And  see  Brandeston. 

Braunston,  John,  390. 

,  William,  415. 

Braunton,  charters  dated  at,  408,  409. 

Bray,  co.  Berks,  54,  77,   148,   149,  337,  430, 
444,  481. 

,  haitdreds  of,  445,  481. 

Bray,  Edward,  278. 

,  Henry,  452. 

,  Richard,  258. 

,  Thomas,  180,  205,  560. 

,  William,  415. 

Brayn,  William,  308,  528,  565. 

Braytoft,  co.  Lincoln,  37 1 . 

Breamish,  Fawdon  on,  co.  Northumberland, 
340. 

Brean,  Breene,  Brene,  co.  Somerset,  145,  226, 
454. 

Brebuck,  John,  133. 

Brecknock,  Breknok,  Breghnok,  43,  91,  824, 
463,  464. 

Bred,  John,  vicar  of  Brookland,  339. 

Brede,  co.  Sussex,  138,  144,  145. 

Bredeholm,  co.  Westmoreland,  IQ9 

Breene.    .See  Brean. 

Breerton.     See  Brereton. 

Breerton,  William,  90. 

Breghnok.  See  Brecknook. 

Brehill.    .See  Brill. 

Brekenok.    See  Brecknock. 

Biekcnok,  David,  204.  254,  444. 

John,  64,  204,  206,  289,  560. 

, ,  receiver-general  of  the  duchy 

of  Cornwall,  111,221. 

Bremn.orc.     iSee  Brommore. 

Bremshet,  George,  572. 


Brenan,  Richard,  engrosser  of  the  Exchequer 
of  Ireland,  183. 

Brenchesley,  Robert,  39. 

Brenchley,  Brencheslee,  co.  Kent,  420,  458. 

Brencurt,  John  son  of  Baldwin  de,  242. 

Brendetworthy.     See  Brynsworthy. 

Brene,  co.  Wilts,  212. 

Brent,  Robert,  23. 

,  Roger,  279,  429,  493. 

,  Thomas,  174. 

,  William,  217. 

Brentbradfeld.     See  Bradfield  Comboat. 

Brent    Marsh,    Brentmerssh,    co.    Somerset, 
117,  484. 

Brenzet,  Branset,  co.  Kent,  441,  442. 

Brerage,  John,  433. 

Brereley,  John,  112. 

,  WiUiam,  487. 

Brereton,  Breerton,  co.  Chester,  90. 

Brereton,  John,  520. 

,  William,  38,  100. 

Bretford,  co.  Warwick,  2. 

Brewes,  Brews,  Brewys,  Robert,  26. 

,  Robert  de,  128. 

,  Thomas,  38,  52,  232,  573. 

,  William,  52. 

Brewester,  John,  287,  387. 

Brewet,  Thomas,  530. 

Brewster,  William,  prebendary  of  St  George, 
Windsor,  69. 

Brianaskam.     iSee  Askham  Bryan. 
Brice,  Henry,  315. 

,  Hugh,  190,  268,  37!,  475,  517. 

,  James,  190. 

,  Nicholas,  540. 

And  see  Bryce. 
Brickhill,  Brykhill,  co.  Kent,  88,  464,  548. 
Bricon,  John,  prior  of  the  hospital  of   St. 

John  Baptist,  Bridgnorth,  546. 
Brid,  Bryd,  John,  506. 

,  Thomas,  506. 

Bridford,  Robert,  538. 

Bridfortb.    See  Birdforth. 

Bridgewater,  Bru^ewater,  co.  Somerset,  96, 

131,254,262,438,536. 

,  port  of,  55,  128,  188,  294,  424,  514. 

ship  called  le  James  of,  100. 

, ,  la  Marie  of,  100. 

, ,  le  Kaieryn  of,  100. 

Bridgnorth,  Bruggenorth,  co.  Salop,  16,  7(1, 
191,  264. 

,  burgesses  of,  496. 

,  collegiate  church  or  free  chapel  of, 

dean  and  chapter  of,  184. 

...     ..., ,  dean  of.    See  Sever. 

, ,  prebend  in,  519. 

9 ,  prebend  of  Arthyngton  in,  184. 

, ,  prebend  of  Walton  in,  62. 

,    hospital    of    St.     John     Baptist, 

Hugh  Cardemaker  prior  of,  11,  546. 
, ,  John  Bricon,  prior  of,  546. 


\ 


V 


GENERAL  INDEX. 


597 


Bridkirkc  in  Allerdalc,  co.  Cumberland,  502. 

Bridlejmore,  co.  Worcester,  357. 

BridKogton,  co.  York,  349. 

9  prior  and  convent  of,  82,  496. 

,  prior  of,  508. 

,  Peter,  prior  of,  496. 

Bridport,  42. 

Bridstowe,  co.  Devon,  417. 

Brient,  John,  488. 

Brieriy,  Brerely,  co.  York,  541. 

Brig,  Brigge,  Briggez,  Thomas,  98,  203,  889, 
451,  469. 

Brigge,  Everard,  318. 

,  John,  820. 

,  Giles,  564. 

,  Giles  de,  98. 

Brigges,  Brygi^s,  Joan,  abbess  of  Komsev, 
185,187,240. 

WiUiam,79. 

,   ,  eseheator   in    the  county  of 

Surrey,  179. 

Briggewater.    See  Bridgewater. 

Brigham,  William,  90. 

Bright,  Walter,  10. 

Brighter  [co.  Cornwall],  513. 

Brighteston  Deverell.    See  Brixton  Deverill. 

Brightlede,  Robert,  31. 

Brigstock,  Briggestoke,  co.  Northampton,  13, 
170,430,464,481. 

,  charter  dated  at,  409. 

Brigstokebaylly,  co.  Northampton,  13. 

Brikenore.    See  Bicknor. 

BrikhUl,  CO.  Kent.     See  Brickhill. 

Brill,  Brehill,  co.  Buckingham,  473. 

Brimfield,  Brymfeld,  co.  Hereford,  83. 

Brimpsfield,  Biymmesfeld,  co.  Gkiucester,  131. 

,  alien  priory  of,  108,  150. 

Brington,  Brynton,  co.  Northampton,  538. 

Brinkworth,  Brynkeworth,  co.  Wilts,  420. 

Brinton,  Manifentn,  62. 

Briset,  Biysette,  co.  Suffolk,  priory  of,  74. 

Bristol,  41,  44,  54,63,  65,  80,  85,  110,  129, 
188,  170,  173,  175,  193,  200,  258,  263, 
265,  277,  279,  286,  304,  327,  355,  358, 
412,  414,  420,  430,  4?7,  438,  471,  460, 
512,  519,  530,  540. 

,  mayor  and  burgesses  of,  85,  170. 

,  mayor  of,  163. 

i4fu/«eeCanynge8  ;  Shipward  ;  Spencer; 
Wykdiam. 

,  sheriff  of,  100. 

,  outlawries  in,  258,  438. 

charter  dated  at,  245. 

>  letters  patent  dated  at,  20,  40,41,  43, 

50,  52,  65,  70,  72,  98,  98-100. 

,  St.  James,  prior  of.  170. 

,  hospital  of  St.  I^urencf*,  444. 

,  mint  at,  446. 

,  port  of,   12,   14,20,  48,55,  93,   100, 

128,  157,  158,  188,  190,  216,  3.59,  386, 
464,  514-516,530. 


Bristol,  ship  called  le  Cristofrc  Damme  of, 
99,  100. 

, U  Cristofer  Howell  of,  100. 

la  Julian  of,  100. 

» subsidy  and  ulnage  of  cloth  in,  63, 

446,  541. 

Britannia,  John  de,  59. 

Brittany,  101,  232-234. 

,  John,  duke  of,  earl  of  Richmond,  188, 

407. 

,  Francis,  duke  of,  450. 

,  ship  called  la  Marguerite  of,  36,452. 

ship  called  le  John  de  Garaunt  of, 

234. 

Britte,  William,  parson   of  Stratton  on   the 
Foss,  370. 

, ,  parson  of  Netherwent,  370. 

Briwerr,  William,  337,  394. 

Brixton,  CO.  Devon,  372. 

Brixton,  Bryston,  Bryxston,  co.  Wilts,  216. 

Deverill,   Brighteston  Deverell,    co. 

Wilts,  74. 

Broad  Clyst,  Brodeclyst,  co.  Devoc,  146. 

Broadwater,  Bradwater,  co.  Sussex,  457. 

Little,  882, 

Broadwinsor,  Brode  Wyndesore,  co.   Dorset. 
133. 

Brocas,  Brokes,  Bernard,  373. 

,  Gilbert,  32. 

,  John,  295. 

I ,  Anne  his  wife,  295. 

,  Thomas,  33. 

,  William,  295,  572. 

» ,  sheriff  of  Oxford,  418. 

Brockhampton,  Brokhampton,  oo.  Warwick 
511. 

Brodbrigge,  Thomas,  63. 

Brode,  Roger,  parson  of  Calstock,  260. 

Brodeclist.     See  Broad  Clyst 

Brode  Wyndesore.     See  Broadwinsor. 

Brodpenny,  William,  288. 

Brograve,  Browegreyne,  Edmond,  mayor  of 

Coventry,  66,  85. 
Brok,  Richard,  264. 
Broke,  Edward,  of  Cobham,  182,  138. 

,  Joau  his  wife,  874.^ 

John,  201,  545. 

> .auditor  of  the  duchy  of  Corn- 
wall, 40. 

Brockedon,  oo.  Devon,  227,  359,  372. 
Brokehall.     See  Brook  Hall. 
Brokrman,  John,  447. 

» ,  eseheator  in  Kent  and  Middle- 

sex,  267. 

» ,  the  elder,  449,  450. 

» ,  the  younger,  449,450. 

Brokes.    See  Brocas. 

Brokesby,  John,  319. 
Broket,  Thomas,  565. 
Brokewod,  William,  52. 
Brokford,  John,  537. 


698 


GENERAL  INDEX. 


BrokhoQS  iu  EaBtbourne,  co.  Sussex,  548. 
Broklond  Trille,  co.  Devon,  70,  119. 
Broman,  Robert,  268. 
Bromcrofte.    See  Broomcrof i. 
BronodyBsh.     See  Brundisb. 
Bromer,  Jobn,  sberifF  of  London,  542. 
Bromeswell,  Brouneswell,  co.  Suffolk,  173. 
Bromfield,  Bromefeld,  co.  Salop,  91. 
Bromehale  [co.  Berks],  prioress  and  nuns  of, 
238. 

,  Alice,  prioress  of,  238. 

Bromball,  Nicholas,  31. 
Bromhill,  William,  106 
Brombolme,  charter  dated  at,  494. 

Brommore,  Bremmore,  co.  Southampton,  70, 
119,  152,  429. 

„  priory  of,  70. 

Bromsgrove,  Brymmeegrove,  co.  Worcester, 

131. 
Bromwiche,  Thomas,  98,  490,  565. 
Bromyard,  co.  Hereford,  372. 
Brook  by  Westbury,  co.  Wilts,  126. 
Brook  Hall,  Brokehall,  co.  Essex,  145. 
Brook,  Henry,  134. 

,  John,  313. 

Brooke,  Robert,  536. 

Brookland,  Brokeland,  co.  Kent,  339. 

Broom,  Richard,  52. 

Broomcrof t,  Bromcrofte  [co.  Salop],  94. 

Broomhill,  Promehill,  co.  Kent,  441,  442. 

Broom  House,  Bromehous,  co.  Northumber- 
land, 841. 

Brough  under  Stainmore,  Burgh  under 
Staynesmore  [co.  Westmoreland], 
143. 

Brough,  Burgh,  co.  Westmoreland,  434. 

Brougham,  Burgham,  Burham,  co.  Westmore- 
land, 74,  120,  186,  189,  484. 

Broughton,  co.  Buckingham,  87,  153. 

,  [co.  Lancaster],  492. 

,  CO.  Salop,  360. 

Broughton,  Christopher,  34. 

,  John,  415,  559. 

, ,  the  elder,  442. 

, ,  the  younger,  442,  443. 

, ,  Anne  his  wife,  443. 

,  Fhilippa,  459. 

Broughton  Astley  [co.  Leicester],  179. 

Broughunt.    See  Boarhunt. 

Broun.     See  Brown. 

Broundeswode.     See  Brownswood. 

Brouneswell.     See  Bromeswell. 

Brounewyn,  Richard,  490. 

Brounflet,  Henry,  lord  Vessy,  1 15. 

Brouns,  Thomas,  bishop  of  Norwich  [1436- 
1445],  256. 

Brounyng.    See  Brownyng. 

Browe,  John,  90. 

Browegreyne.    See  Brograve. 

Brower,  William,  parson  of  Burford,  60. 

Browgrene,  William,  287. 


Brown,  Broun,  Browene,  Antony,  88. 

,  Edward,  88. 

,  Emma,  58. 

George,  88. 

,  Henry,  336. 

,  John,  3,  10,  69,  70,  191,  193,  206, 

223,  234,  253,  266,  313,  331,  351,  374, 

461,  490,  501. 

., ,  parson  of  Grainsby,  181. 

,  Leonard,  88. 

,  Nicholas,  188,  418. 

,  Richard,  42,  212,  214,  336,  508. 

,  Robert,  88,  386, 371. 

.Thomas,  2,  5,53,   88,  90,  464,  465, 

548, 549,  553. 

, ,  sheriff  of  Kent,  360. 

,  Eleanor  his  wife,  88,  464,  548,  549. 

,  WiUiam,  52,  88,  141,172,276,  351, 

517. 

,  Master  William,  parson  of  Steeple, 

339. 

,  ,  parson  of  Wotton,  839. 

,  ,  parson  of  Kelsey,  183. 

Brownswood,    Broundeswode,     prebend    of, 
20. 

Brownyng,  Edmund,  prebendary  of  Newark, 
Leicester,  11. 

,  William,  98,  172,  203,  210,  300,  386, 

478,  550,  563. 

Broxstowe,  co.  Nottingham,  22. 

Broxstowe,  John,  22. 

Bruce,  Browses,  Bruses,  co.  Middlesex,  176, 
326. 

Brudenell,  Edoiuud,  64,  452,  467,  560. 

Brueme  [co.  Oxford],  abbot  and  convent  of, 
52. 

Brugenorthe.     See  Bridgnorth. 

Brugge,  Giles,  259. 

,  John,  rector  of  Towyn,  55. 

, ,  rector  of  Hodnct,  65. 

}    )   prior    of  Monkton  Farleigli, 

460. 

,  Thomas,  151,  565. 

*..>   ,  escheator  in   the    county    of 

Hereford,  552. 

Bniggenorth,  Brugges.    See  Bridgnorth. 

Brumgill,  co.  Cumberland,  540. 

Brun,  AsthiU,  876. 

,  Erun  his  son,  376. 

Brundale,  William,  415. 

Brundisb,  Bromdyssh,  co.  Suffolk,  179,  855. 

Brune,  Henry,  37. 

Brunemannus,  forester  of  Henry  [II.],  58. 

Brus,  Robert  de,  376. 

,  Peter  de,  247. 

Brustwick,  Brustwyk  [co.  York],  24. 

Brutescourt,  co.  Hereford,  372. 

Bruyn,  Henry,  504. 

,  Richard,  141. 

Bryan,  Richard,  108. 

,  Thomas,  4,  94,  141,  509,  530. 

Bryce,  Henry,  sheriff  of  London,  542. 


GENERAL  INDEX. 


599 


Bryce,  John,  278. 

And  see  Brice. 

Brycheold,  John,  19. 

Biygenorth.     See  Bridgnorth. 

Brygge,  Thomas,  283. 

Brygges.    See  Brigges. 

BrykhiU.    See  Brickhill. 

Biyland,  William,  522. 

Brymteid,    See  Brimfield. 

Brymmesfeld.     See  Brimpsfield. 

Brymmesgrove.     See  Bromsgrove. 

Brymston,  John,  279. 

Bryncheley,  John,  67. 

Brynnescolys,  co.  York,  26. 

Bryns worthy,  Breodeflworthy,  co.  Devon,  265. 

Brysette.    See  Briset. 

Brystowe.    See  Bristol. 

Bubbewith,    Nicholas,  bishop    of    Salisbury, 
[U07]  298. 

Buckden,  Bukden,  co.  York,  42,  116,  186, 
435. 

Buckenham,  Bokenham,  co.  Norfolk,  67,  88, 
135. 

,  Old,  67,  83,  135,323. 

,  New,  67,  88,  135. 

Buckenham  Lathyc,  67,  83,  135. 
Buckfastleigh,  Bukfast,  co.  Devon,  142. 

,  abbot  and  convent  of,  61,  142. 

,  abbot  of,  37. 

Buckingham,  Bokyngham,  co.  Bnckingham, 
438,  502. 

Buckingham,  county  of,  22,  27,  28,  32,  40, 47, 
55,  75,  94,  108,  111,  118,  121,  125, 
133,  134,  169,  186,  203,  218,  268,  278, 
282,  325,  858,  889,  891,  445,  452,  481. 
494. 

, ,  sheriff  of,  65,  100,  203,  889, 

452,480,481. 

And  see  House  ;  Bede. 

, escheator   in,   224,  290,  .384, 

845,  880. 

And  see  Flegge ;  Bokes. 

..., , outlawries  in,  2,  5,  417,  418, 

505,  507. 

.., ,  justices  of  the  peace  in,  65, 100. 

, ,  comminsions  of    the  peace  in, 

559. 

,  duke  of.     See  Stafford. 

Buckish,  Bukkysih,  co.  Devon,  265,  872. 

Buckland,  Boclond,  co.  Devon,  149. 

abbey  of,  149. 

abbot  aod  convent  of,  149. 

Buckland  Filleigh,  Bokeloud  Fyllegh,  co. 
Devon,  418. 

Trill,  Bokelonde  Trill,  co.   Devon, 

429. 

Bucknell,  BigcnhuII  in  Burcestre,  co.  Oxford, 
276,  306,  331. 

,  Bakkenell,  co.  Salop,  443. 

Bucley,  William,  273. 

Bucton,  Geoffrey  de,  242. 

,  William,  3. 


Budde,  Alan,  mayor  of  Newcastle-on-Tyne, 
848. 

,  John,  254. 

Budefeld.     5ee  Bidfield. 
Budeston.    See  Dudstonc. 

Budleigh,  Bodelegh,  co.  Devon,  hundred  of, 
70. 

....,  East,  Estbudlegh,  co.  Devon,  hundred 

of,  122,  478. 

*.,  West,  Westbudlegh,  co.  Devon,  hun- 
dred of,  122,  478. 

Budock,  Bewthek  by  Penryn,  co.  Cornwall, 
526. 

Builth,  Belth,  co.  Brecon,  526,  527. 

,  burgesses  of,  406. 

Buissei,  Roger  de,  875. 

Bukden.     See  Buckden. 

Bnkeshale.     5ee  Buxhall. 

Bukfast.     See  Buckfastleigh. 

Bukholt,  forest  of,  15. 

Uukkenell.     See  Bucknell. 

Bukland,   William,  monk    of    Westminster, 
prior  of  Deorhurst,  196. 

Bukroft,  Thomas,  473. 

,  Joan  his  wife,  473. 

Buktoftes  Maner,  co.  Buckingham,  473. 

Bukyngbam,  John,  504. 

Bukyngton  Loges,  co.  Devon,  461. 

Bulbeek,  co.  Cambridge,  869. 

Bulbeck,  John,  of  Hobury,  264. 

, ,  of  Shipe,  264. 

, ,  of  Waletstrete,  264. 

,  Thomas,  of  Speche,  264. 

Bulkeley,  William,  529. 

Bulkington,  Bulkyndon  by  Kevele,  co.  Wilts, 
444. 

Bulkworthy,  co.  Devon,  372. 

Bullesdcm,  John,  1 . 

Bullingdon,  Bol3mdene,  co.  Oxford,  hundred 
of,  105,  115,430,480. 

Bullingtou,  Bolyngton,  co.  Lincoln,  871. 
Bullishill,  CO.  Northumberland,  841. 
Bullok,  Robert,  501. 

Thomas,  32,  545. 

Bultam.     See  Boultham. 

Bulwell,  CO.  Nottingham,  218,  226,  478. 

Bumpstead,  co.  Essex,  287. 

Helion,  CO.  Essex,  197. 

Steeple,  co.  Essex,  3,  197,  255. 

Bumstede,  John,  292. 
Buneke,  Warner,  232. 

Bungay,  co.  Suffolk,  prioress  and  nuns  of, 
494. 

Bungey,  Nicholas,  504. 
Bunkle,  Robert,  230. 
Bunne,  John,  561. 

,  Richard,  28. 

Bunnok,  Robert,  429. 
Bunting,  John,  335. 
Buutyngc,  Apdrew,  52. 
Burcestre.     See  Bicester. 


600 


GENERAL  INDEX. 


Burcestre,  John,  265, 451. 

,  Elizabeth  his  wife,  265. 

Burdeaux,  John,  204. 

Bardeles  in  Seoulton,  co.  Norfolk,  471. 

Bnrdenell,  Edmund,  389. 

Bardet,  Thomas,  379,  414. 

Burdeux,  Jenycot  de,  302. 

Borell,  Edmund,  388. 

Bnres,  Overhall  in,  co.  Suffolk,  72. 

,  Silvestres  Hall  in,  72. 

Boies  Gifiard,  fiuryesgyflard,  co.  Essex,  76. 

Bnrford^  co.  Salop,  182,  475. 

Bnrford  [co.  Salop],  le  Xetherpersonage  of, 
60. 

Bnrford  in  le  Wolde,  co.  Oxford,  470. 

Bnrford,  WiUiam,  546. 

Burgh,  143. 

,  forest  of,  143. 

Burgh    under    Staynesmore.      See     Brongh 
under  Stainmore. 

Burgh  on  Sands,  co.  Cumberland,  140,  534. 

Burgh  in  the  ]!f crash,  co.  Lincoln,  371. 

Burgh,  00.  Westmoreland,  186, 189. 

,  CO.  York,  510. 

Burgh,  Benedict,  45. 

,  Hubert  de,  earl  of  Kent,  267,  395. 

,  John,  39,  75,  270,  470,  544. 

,  ,  escheatoT   in    the  county    of 

Lincoln,  342. 

,  Richard,  36,  510. 

,  Bichard  de,  earl  of  Ulster,  62. 

,   Thomas,    30,  84,    41,  93,  101,  112, 

120,    130,    144,     151,    197,  205,  281, 
343,  371,  431,  451,  566,  567,  569. 

, ,  sheriff  of  Lincoln,  208,  .567. 

,  Thomas  de,  muter  of  the  horse,  435. 

,  William,  30,  66,  102,  450,  576. 

Burgham.     See  Brougham. 

Bnrghash.    See  Bur  wash. 

Burghberton,  co.  Devon,  254,  503. 

Burghchier.     See  Bourchier. 

Bnrghersh,  Henry,  bishop  of  Lincoln,  248. 

Buigeys,  John,  32,  326,  413. 

,  Laurence,  419. 

Bnrghmerssh,  co.  Kent,  2. 

Burgoyne,  Burgoigne,  Burgyn,  John,  300,  384, 

491,  550. 

,  Richard,  300,  384. 

.Thomas,   64,   68,94,  141,  304,  413, 

521,  553,  560,  561. 

Burgundy,  517. 

,  the  duke  of,  101,  348,  517. 

, ,  truce  with,  102. 

,  Charles  of,  count  of  Charloys,  439. 

Burghyll,  Maurice,  323. 
Burham.     See  Brougham. 
Burhed,  John,  314. 

Burley,  in  the  New  Forest,  co.  Southampton, 
8.  516. 

,  CO.  Kent,  464,  548. 

Burley,  John,  54. 


Burley,  Boeriey,  William,  94,  492. 

,  Margaret  his  wife,  94,  492. 

Buroard,  Roger,  167. 
Bumeby,  Eustace,  170. 

,  George,  491. 

Bumeham.    See  Bumham. 

Bumel,  Robert,  bishop  of  Bath  and  Wella 

and  chancellor  [1275-1292],  62. 
Bnroell,  Hugh,  550. 

, ,  Jocosa  his  wife,  549,  550. 

,  Robert,  mayor  of  Dublin,  201. 

Bumham,  co.  Buckingham,  412. 

,    Bumeham,  co.   Lincoln,   195,   227, 

344,  345. 

,  Nether,  co.  Lincoln,  91,  484. 

,  Upper,  CO.  Lincoln,  484. 

....,  Boraham,  co.  Norfolk,  379,  540,  541. 

Bumthorpe.    See  Bonthorpe. 

Bnrrage,  Thomas,  490. 

Burrell,  William,  .508. 

Burrington,  Boryngton,  co.  Devon,  212,  227, 
372. 

Burrow,  Over,   Overborowe,  co.   Laneastery 
445,  461. 

,  N  ether,  Netherborowe,  co.  Lancaster, 

445,  461. 

Burse,  Thomas,  492. 

Burseley.     See  Bnrsledon. 

Bursledon,  Burseley,  co.  Southampton,  416. 

Bnrsted,  Great,  co.  Essex,  398. 

Burte,  Alice,  257. 

Burton,  306. 

,  Berton,  co.  Lincoln,  169,  179. 

by  Lincoln,  co.  Lincoln,  112. 

,  CO.  Northampton,  62,  253. 

,  [co.  Pembroke],  114. 

,  CO.  Somerset,  228. 

Fedwnrdyn,  co.  Lincoln,  182,  479. 

on-Trent,  co.  Stafford,  505. 

in  Lonsdale,  co.  York,  445,  461. 

Burton  St.  Lazarus  of  Jerusalem,  order  of, 
128,  136. 

,  master  of,  137. 

,  William  Sutton,  master  of,  136,  346, 

462. 

,  Walter  de  Lynton,  master  of,  136. 

....,  Nicholas  de    Dovourre,    master   of, 

136. 

,  Robert  de  Daleby,  master  of,  136. 

Burton,  Edward,  mayor  of  Lincoln,  115. 

,  John,  288,  412. 

, ,  parson  of  Thornton  in   Lons- 
dale, 60. 

..........  Nicholas,  24. 

,  Richard,  68,  201. 

,  Robert,  372. 

,  Simon,  281. 

,  William,  504. 

Burtonwood,  co.  Lancaster,  267. 

Bnrwash,  Burghash,  co. Sussex,  138, 839,41 1. 

Bnrwasshe,  John,  259. 


GENKRAL  INDEX. 


601 


Barwell,  Borewcll,  co.  Lincoln,  26,  169,  226, 
227. 

Biirwodes  Maner,  co.  Norfolk,  556. 

Bury  [co.  Susses],  12U. 

Bury  lianer  in  WingntTe,  co.  Buekinfirham, 
473. 

Bury,  Johu,  125. 

,  Robert,  520,  555. 

WiUiam,  414. 

Bnryesgyffard.     See  Bores  Giffard. 

Bury  St  Edmunds,  co.  Suffolk,  108,  173,  203, 
206,  25.%  443. 

,  Parliament  at,  196. 

Buryton,  Agnes,  abbess  of  St.  Mary's,  Win- 
chester, 383. 

Bosbrygge,  John,  201. 

Bussebrigge,  John,  179. 

,  Robert,  179. 

Bussh,  Henry,  858. 

Busshet,  George,  218. 

Bnsshop,  Peter,  381. 

Bustlesham.     See  Bisham. 

Buston.    See  Beeston. 

Buteler,  William,  221. 

Butlar,  Thomas,  492. 

Butler,  chief,  of  England.  See  Wenlok; 
Boteler. 

*-» ,  appointment  of,  8. 

Butler,  or  Ormond,  James,  earl  of  Wiltshire, 
12,  19,  29,  32,  34,  47,  67,  69,  72,  75, 
77,  86,  91,  95,  101,  103-105.  Ill,  112, 
114,  116-118,  129,  189,  143,  153,  178, 
186,  189,  198,  200,  212,  221,  223,  261, 
262,  286,  298,  321,  330,  381,  840,  354, 
356,  362,  366,  425,  431,  434,  437,  440, 
451,  452,  454,  458,  485,  486,  549. 

) ,  late  treasurer  of  England,  54. 

• , ,  Eleanor  his  wife,  178. 

•>  James,  earl  of  Ormond,  69. 

,  John,  254. 

Butre,  Joan  del,  413. 

Butside,  Thomas,  204. 

Butte,  John,  mayor  of  Norwich,  238. 

,  William,  203. 

Bnttercrambc,  co.  York,  538. 

Bnttokyshide,  Thomas,  37. 

Button.     See  Bitton. 

Batton,  John,  100. 

Buxhale,  Thomas,  master  of  the  collegiate 
church  of  Fotheringay,  192,  216,  431, 
589. 

BuzhaU,  Bukeshall,  eo.  Suffolk,  314. 

Byconell,  John,  23. 

Bye,  Thomas,  10. 

Byffelde  Ualoyate,  co.  Worcester,  357. 

B^eet,  Befiete,co.  Surrey,  127,  183,  484. 

,  charter  dated  at,  810. 

Bygge.    See  Bigge. 

Bygod,  Bigod,  Bartholomew  de,  160. 

,  Hogli  le,  307. 

,  Ralph,  228. 

> knight,  228. 


Bygod,  Roger,  earl  of  Norfolk,  309. 
Bykelie.     See  Bickley. 

Byker,     Biker   by    Neweastle-on-Tync,    co. 
Northumberland,  199,  341,  848. 

^mf  see  Bicker. 

Bykersdyke,  co.  Nottingham,  451. 

Bykley,  John,  210. 

Byland,  co.  York,  abbot  and  monks  of,  406. 

Byles,  Thomas,  510. 

Byllyng.     See  Billyng. 

Byndewyn,  Richard,  198,  264. 

Byngham,  John,  559. 

y  Ricl.ar.l,  65,  99,   133,154,201,233, 

279,  303,  304,  346,  847,  373,  459,  488  - 
491,  529,  530,  549,  552,  559,  564,  569, 
570,  572,  574,  575. 

t justice  of  the  King's    Bench, 

14,  199. 

,  Margaret,  his  wife,  549. 

9  Richard,  the  elder,  134. 

» ,  the  younger,  134,  552. 

,  Thomas,  550. 

Byunarton,  co.  Cornwall,  488. 

Bynteworth,  Richard  de,  bishop  of    London 

[1388-1839],  236. 
Byrchour.     See  Birc-hover. 
Byrd.     See  Bird. 
Byrfeld,  230. 

Byrkes,  Tyson  of  the,  492. 
Byrness,  Barnes,  co.  Northumberland,  341. 
Bysetere,  Thomas,  322. 
Byslegh.    See  Bisley. 
Bysshop,  John,  173. 

Bysshopcrophill.    See  Cropwell  Bishop. 
Bytham,  376,  377. 

castle,   Castlebitham,    co.    Lincoln. 

886.  ' 

»  Little,  Litilbitham,  CO.  Lincoln,  836. 

Bytbestrond,  co.  Cornwall,  872. 
Bywell,  c«.  Northumberland,  484. 


c. 


Caas.    See  Case. 

Cadbnry,  South,  co.  Somerset,  833,  359,  860, 
365. 

Caddington  Major,  prebend  of,  in  St.  Paul's, 

London,  543. 
Cadeby,  co.  Lincoln,  169. 
Cadman,  Richard,  81. 

,  Thomas,  31. 

Cadney,  co.  Lincoln,  169. 

Caen,  alien  abbey  of  Holy  Trinity,  57.  98 
144,  146,  177.  ^  ' 

••..»  abbey  of  St.  Stephen,  163. 

Caerleon,  Kaerlion,  co.  Monmouth,  526,  527. 

>  men  of,  427. 

..»  forest  of,  527. 


602 


GENERAL  INDEX. 


CaennartheDy  Kermerthmen,  Kermerdyu,  in 

South  Wales,  26,  40,  42. 

,  mayor  and  bui^esHcs  of,  311. 

,  Old,  326. 

,  New,  326. 

,  exchei^uer  of,  429. 

,  chamberlain  of,  42,  69. 

,  prior  and  convent  of  St.  John,  326. 

,  county,  7,  69,  326,  451,  526,  547. 

,  sherifF  of,  451. 

And  see  Don. 

Caeru.     See  Carew. 

Cagill,  George,  492. 

Cailaghton  by  Ballibaghill,  in  Ireland,  117. 

Cake,  John,  52. 

,  Robert,  52. 

Calais,  6,  17,  35,  44,  60,  61,  71,  79,  89,  98, 
99,  112,  124,  130,  142,  143,  154,  177, 
182,185,  193,  194,200,209,  211,  216, 
217,  219-222.259-262,264,265,  267, 
272.  275,  276,  285,  288,  289,  294,  296, 
298,  321,  324,  325,  355,  363,  373,  378, 
379, 390,  406,  433,  436,  438,  456,  457, 
464,  470,  472,  477,  483,  485,  487,  619, 
523, 525-527,  588,  539,  548,  543,  549. 

,  captain  of,  176,  2S0,  222,  438. 

And  see  Neville. 

.treasurer  of.  60,  71,  142,  267,422, 

426,  539.  543. 

And  see  Blount ;  Vernon ;  Clyfton. 

,  victualler  of.     See  Wode. 

,  marches  of,  90. 

,  exchequer  of.  170. 

,  port  of,  143. 

,  coinage,  mint,  exchange  in,  113,  130, 

196,  267,  324,  370,  371.  543. 

,  parish  of  St.  Nicholas,  89. 

,  parish  of  St.  Mary.  170. 

,  ehurch  of  St.  Mary,  60. 

,  Feryhous  without  the  walls  of,  79. 

,  prior  and  convent  of  Carmelites  at  60. 

merchants  of   the  staple  of,  64,  220, 

222,  271,  276,  276,  351,  352,  878,  438, 
442,  485,  487,  541. 

,  mayor  of  the  staple  of.     See  Thriske. 

,  weighing  of  wool  in,  24. 

Caloeby,  Calsby,  co.  Lincoln,  199,  229,  454. 

Calcot,  Robert,  177. 

Calcote.    See  Caldecote. 

Caldam.     See  Coldham. 

Caldbeck,  co.  Cumberland,  466. 

Caldebeke,  John,  sheriff  of  the  city  of  Lincoln, 
351. 

Caldecote,  Calcote,  co.  Northampton.  7, 9, 104, 
533. 

CO.  Norfolk,  184. 

And  see  Caldicot. 

Caldeham.    See  Coldham. 

Calder,  Caldoo,  river,  co.  Cumberland,  106, 
466. 

Caldicot,  Caldecote  [co.  Monmouth],  114. 

Caldoo.     Sec  Calder. 

Calerigge,  co.  Westmoreland,  169. 


Calf.  Hagin,  500. 

Calgarth,  co.  Westmoreland,  127. 

Callaly,  Cawlech,  co.  Northumberland,  49. 

Calmac,  John,  68. 

Calmady.  Jobu,  201. 

Calne,  co.  Wilts,  128,  257, 480. 

,  hundred  of,  128,  430,  480. 

Cairo  we,  co.  Salop,  316,  817. 

Calsby.     See  Calceby. 

Calstock,  Calstoke,  co.  Cornwall,  78,  260. 

Calthome,  Agnes,  433. 

,  John,  433. 

,  Richard,  433. 

,  William,  433. 

Calthorp,  William,  206,  302,  390,  668. 

Caltou,  Richard,  185. 

Caludham,  co.  Salop,  98. 

Calvert  on,  co.  Bedford,  197. 

,  CO.  Buckingham,  76. 

Calwodeley.  Calwodley,  Thomtis,  4,  256. 

Camberwell,  co.  Surrey,  324.  451. 

Cambirlayn.  Laurence,  412. 

Cambridge,  47,  80,  103.   133,   148,   184,  212, 
257,  297,  413,  480,  481,  504. 

,  burgesses  of,  312,  555. 

••.,  mayor  of.     See  Bel  ton ;     Cooper; 

Hesewell. 

,  charter  dated  at,  408. 

,  statutes  of,  29, 134,200,276,345,449, 

528. 

,  Friars  Minors  of.  260. 

,  Friars  Preachers  of,  267. 

,  University  of,  129,  177,  480. 

, chiucellor  of,  430,  480. 

And  see  Scrope ;  Bothe ;  Wolflete. 

, chancellor  and  scholars  of,  312. 

Cambridge  Colleges : 

Goddishottse,  proctor  and  scholars  of,  117, 

217. 
,  William  Fallam,  proctor  of,  217. 

Holy  Trinity  Hall,  warden  and  fellows  of, 

118,473. 
,  Simon  Dallyng,  warden  of,  473. 

Simon  Thomham,  warden  of.  118, 

473. 

King's,  33.  84,  74,  106,  177. 

,  Robert  Wodeiark,  provost  of,  74, 

177. 

King's  Hall,  warden  and  scholars  of,  103. 

,  Richard  Scrop,  warden  of,  103. 

,  Master  Thomas  Powys,  warden  of, 

103. 

,  Master  Thomas  Saintguste,  warden 

of,  292. 

Pembroke,  master  or  warden  and   scholars 
of,  46. 

Queen's,  president  and  fellows  of,  495. 

,  Master  Andrew  Doket,  president 

of,  495. 

St.  Mai^ret  and  St.  Bernard.   See  Queen's. 

St.  Mary  and  St.  Nicholas.    See  King's. 

St.  Michael,  master  and  scholars  of,  73. 


GENERAL  INDEX. 


603 


Cambridge  CoUegei — coni, 
StMiehael,  Master  ^VHUam  Avkewe,  master 
of,  561. 

Valence  Marie.    See  Pembroke. 

Cambridge,  coanty  olr,  18,  28,  44,  89,  92,  103, 
111,  131,  133,  139,  142,  150,  189,  213, 
228,  261,  281,  282,  300,  802,  304,  363, 
884,  39],  436,  440,  445,  466,  470,  472, 
481. 

, ,  sheriff  of,  302,  461,  480,  481. 

, ,  esoheator  in,  345,  353,880,461. 

, ,  outlawries  in,  2,  257,  417,  506, 

510. 

, ,  commissions  of  the  peace  in,  560. 

Cambrigge,  Thomas,  prior  of  Bye,  411. 

Camden,  Hogh,  68. 

Came,  co.  Northumberland,  341. 

Camoyu,  Isabel,  abbess  of  Bomsey,  240. 

Campden,  John,  490. 

Campemon,  William,  31. 

Camps,  Campes,  Cawmpes,  co.  Cambridge, 
180,  193,  292. 

Great,  197. 

Campsall,  co.  York,  519. 

Campsey  Ash,  Assh  by  Campesse,  co. 
Suffolk,  507. 

Campyilla,  Richard  de,  306. 

Campy  on,  John,  2. 

Candy,  Hugh,  68. 

Cane,  John,  255. 

,  Margaret,  255. 

,  William,  255. 

Canewdon,  Canwedon,  co.  Ehhcx,  104. 

Canfield,  Great,  co.  Essex,  198,  197. 

Canford,  co.  Dorset,  2,  170. 

Cangiani,  Gerard,  518. 

Cank.     See  Cannock. 

Cannington,  Canyngton,  co.  Somerset,  4, 192. 

Cannock,  Cank  [co.  Stafford],  forest  of,  27. 

Canon,  John,  abbot  of  St.  John's,  Colchenter, 
334,  338. 

Cantelowe,  William,  174. 

Canterbury,  co.  Kent,  49,  56,  64,  82,  88, 159, 

162.  210,  256,  277,  824,  862,  402-404, 
465,  516,  588,  548. 

,  letters  patent  dated  at,  196. 

,  charters  dated  at,  171,  246,  249,  313, 

394,  398,  400,  402-404,  498. 

,  mayor  of,  230. 

And  see  Bigge. 

,  Westgate  in,  57,  88,  464,  548. 

province  of,  27,  28,41, 44,  64,  80,  95, 

163,  272,  370,  484,  450. 

,  Lanf ranc,  archbishop  of,  402, 403 . 

,  Theobald,  archbishop  of,  167,  494. 

,  T.  archbishop  of,  307. 

And  8ee  Bourchier;  Kempe;  Abing- 
don ;  Chichcle ;  Stratford. 

,  diocese  of,  80,  83,  325,  328,  332,  339, 

353,  387,  478,  479. 

,  urchdcacon  of.     See  Ch ichelcy . 

,  St.  Augustine's  abbey   15    300,  325, 

328,  402-405. 


Canterbury,  St.  Augustine's,  convent  of,  299, 

402-405. 

, ,  Jame8>  abbot  of,  101,  183,  299. 

, ,  William  Sellyng,  abbot  of,  800. 

,  William,  abbot  of,  402. 

, ,  Aelstan,  abbot  of,  403. 

.« , ,  Hugh,  abbot  of,  403. 

, ,  Nicholas,  abbot  of,  403. 

, ,  Ralph,  abbot  of,  403. 

, ,  Roger,  abbot  of,  403. 

, ,  Thomas,  abbot  of,  403. 

,  Th.  abbot  of,  403. 

, ,  Wido,  abbot  of,  402. 

,  Christchurch,  prior  and  convent  of, 

11.%  307. 

, ,  Richard,  prior  of,  101. 

, ,  Thomas,  prior  of,  183,  807. 

Cantilupo,  William  de,  267. 

Cantley,  Canteleye,  co.  Norfolk,  179,  355. 

Cantokeshede.     See  Qoantockshoad. 

Cantref  Selig,  Kantriesselly  [co.  Brecon],  91, 
360. 

Cantrell,  Thomas,  31. 

WUliam,  81. 

Cantremaure,  526. 

Cantsfteld,  Cauncefield,  co.  Lancaster,  422. 

CanWll,  Richard  de,  375. 

Canvilla,  Gerard  de,  398. 

Can  wick,  co.  Lincoln,  499, 500. 

Canynges,  Thomas,  228, 881,  508,  506,  508, 
509. 

,  Elizabeth  his  wife,  503,  506,  508. 

William,  44,  78,  279,  804,  418,  519, 

540. 

, ,  mayor  of  Bristol,  65. 

,  Joan,  his  wife,  519. 

Capell,  CO.  Kent,  382. 

Capella,  Henry  de,  895. 

Cappoge,  Keppok,  co.  Louth,  74. 

Capron,  William,  414. 

Caraunt,  Carrant,  John,  801. 

,  John,  the  younger,  101. 

William,  98,  150,  801,  563. 

Carbrooke,  Karbroke,  co.  Norfolk,  141. 

Cardemaker,  Huffh,  prior  of  the  hospital  of 
St.  John  Baptist,  Bridgnorth,  11,  546. 

,  William,  814. 

Cardiff,    Cardefe,    Kerdyf,    co.    Glamorgan, 
447- 

,  bnrge«<seH  of,  427. 

Cardigan,  Kerdikan,  42. 

county  of,  7,  42,  69,  110,  536,  547. 

, ,  sheriff  of.    See  Don. 

Cardiuham,  Cardinan,  co.  Cornwall,  372. 
Cardmaker,  John,  33. 
Careby,  co.  Lincoln,  336. 
Carent,  Nicholas,  dean  of  Welln,  478. 
Caresbrok.     See  Corisbrook. 
Carevilestebbiug  [co.  Northampton],  539. 
Carew,Caeru,  Ksyrhngh  [co.  Pembroke],  60. 
Carcw,  Carewc,  Carrewe,  Nicholas,  65, 75,545. 


604 


GENERAL  INDEX. 


Carcw,  NicbolM,    escheator   in    Sorrey    and 
Sussex,  32. 

, ,  the  elder,  447,  461. 

,  Joan  his  wife,  461. 

, ,  Margaret  his  wife,  447. 

Nicholas  the  younger,  447,  461. 

Thomas,  65,  75,  4G1. 

, ,  Joan  his  wife,  461. 

Carhampton,  co.  Somerset,  886,  366. 

....,  hnndred  of,  286,  366. 

,  Little,  366. 

Carisbrook,  Caresbrok,  Isle  of  Wight,  27,  87, 
S8,  61,  96,  203,  424,  504,  535. 

,  governor  of.    See  Grate. 

CarkedoD,  co.  Worcester,  475. 

Carlbj,  CO.  Lincoln,  300. 

Carlile,  Robert,  562. 

Carlill,  John,  280. 

Carlisle,  co.  Cumberland,  16,82,  87,  292,  422, 
434. 

,  charter  dated  at,  165. 

,  bishop  of,  186. 

And  see  Eingscote ;  Scrope ;  Mauclerk. 

,  William,  bishop  of,  220. 

,  bishopric  of,  186,  220,  292,  382. 

,  diocese  of,  120,  128,  468,  469. 

,  St.  Mary's  prior  and  convent  of,  87, 

540. 

Carlton,  Carleton,  co.  Bedford,  195,  369. 

,  CO.  Cambridge,  77,  521. 

,  North,  CO.  Nottingham,  84. 

by  Hemelsey,  co.  York,  521. 

Panel],  co.  Lincoln,  371. 

CarmeliteB,  order  of,  51. 

Camarron,  51,  69,  310. 

,  charters  dated  at,  62,  252,  557. 

,  county  of,  51,  110,  529. 

, ,  escheator  in.    See  Herbert. 

Cameweoek,  John,  288,  284. 

Carusujewe,  William,  101. 

Camwith,  Gilbert,  406. 

Carpenter,  Henry,  32. 

John,  826. 

,  bishop  of  Worcester  [1444- 

1476],   821,   263,  288,  284,  334,843, 
868-365,  368,  400,  418,  521,  564,  574, 
575. 

,  Thomas,  451. 

Carranr.    See  Caraunt 
Carraunt.    See  Caraunt. 
Carre,  John,  262. 

,  Thomas,  111,  262. 

Carrickfergus,  Cragfergns,  in  Ireland,  291. 

Carriteth,  co.  Northumberland,  341. 

Carrones,  in  Ireland,  117. 

Carshalton,  Kershulton,  co.  Surrey,  545. 

Carswell.    See  Creswell. 

Carter,  James,  535,  542. 

,  John,  173. 

,  Richard,  360. 

,  William,  .329. 


Carthusian  Order,  180,  125,  127,    155-157, 
160,  161,210. 

Cardage,  Thomas,  446. 

Cary,  Richard,  204. 

William,  372. 

,  Alice,  his  wife,  372. 

Case,  Caas,  Thomas,  509. 

Cashel,  in  Ireland,  the  archbishop  of,  273. 

archdeacon  of.    See  Ohedian. 

Castaings,  Bernard  de,  83. 

Castelaerc.    See  Castle  Acre. 

Castell,  Geoffrey,  545. 

, ,  rector  of  Stoke  Goldington,  420. 

,  John,  30,  99. 

,  Richard,  154. 

Castell  Kariot.    See  Castle  Carroek. 

Castelman,  Richard,  174. 

Castelton,  William,  13. 

Casterton,  Casturton,  co.  Westmoreland,  169. 

Castle  Acre,  Castelacre,  co.  Norfolk,  89,  443. 

,  priory  of,  443. 

Castle  Carroek,  Castell  Kariot,  co.  Comber- 
land,  140,  534. 

Castle  Forgate,  Castell  Forieeta,  co.  Salop,  92. 

Castlemartin,  Castelmartyn  [co.  Pembroke], 
114. 

,  hnndred  of,  114. 

Castlerickard,  Castelricard,  co.  Meath,  186. 

Castle  Rising,  Rysyng,  co.  Norfolk,  28,  40, 
125,  168,  180. 

Caston,  Oliver,  442. 

...»  Robert,  569. 

Castre  Bardolf,  co.  Norfolk,  179,  355. 

Catalonia,  Catalonians,  276,  390. 

Catane.     See  Catayn. 

Gatarall,  John,  108. 

Catayn,  Catane,  Cateyn,  Edward,  66, 133, 206. 

> , ,  Simon,  203,  254. 

Catebi,  co.  Lincoln,  41.* 

Caterik,  John,  538. 

Catesby,  John,  423,  612,  538,  573. 

,  Robert,  570. 

,  William,  85,  120,  569,  57.3,  574. 

Catewonh,  Great,  co.  Huntingdon,  1. 

Cateyn.     See  Catayn. 

Catfeld,  12. 

Cathorp,  co.  Lincoln,  179,  355. 

Catour,  Johu,  185. 

Catsash,  Cattessasshe,  co.  Somerset,  hundred 
of,  7,  10,  104. 

Catte,  William,  4. 

Catteriek,  Kateryke,  co.  York,  169. 

Cattesbury.    See  Gatesbury. 

Cattessasshe.     See  Catsash. 

Cattou,  CO.  York,  89,  199,  455. 

Catworth,  Thomas,  sheriff  of  London,  154. 

Cauncefeld.     See  Cautsfield. 

Caunceler,  William,  547. 

Caunton,  Richard,  428,  467. 

Caunz,  Geoffrey  de,  395. 

Cau?e,  John,  31 7. 


GENERAL  INDEX. 


60o 


Caune,  William,  141. 

Causham,  co.  Berks  (?  Caversham),  502. 

CayeDdish,  Caondysshe,  co.  Suffolk.  184. 

,  Grays  in,  79. 

CaTersham,  co.  Oxford,  254. 
Cawase,  John,  414. 
Cawlech.     .See  Callalj. 
Cawmpes.     See  Camps. 
Cawod,  Cawode,  Henry,  130,  288. 

,  John,  288. 

,  Margaret,  288. 

•*• ,  tretery  Zoo. 

,  WiUiam,  351. 

Cawood,  CO.  York,  288. 

letters  patent  dated  at,  421,  422,  450, 

469,  478,  479,  491,  492,  498,  577. 

Cawthom,  Thonuui,  293. 

Caxton,  CO.  Cambridge,  384. 

Cayleway.    See  Kayleway. 

Cayaesford.    See  Kentsford. 

Cay  veil,  Robert,  112. 

Cecily.     See  Cicely. 

Cedewain,  ICedewyn,  17. 

Ccddre.     See  Cheddar. 

Cefn   Bryn,    Kevendryn    [co.   Glamorgan], 
forest  of,  114. 

Cely,  Alexander,  86,  474. 

Richard,  276. 

Centuryon,  Lionel,  254. 

Oerdestoke.     5ee  Chardstock. 

Cersyn,  Walter,  547. 

Cery,  Kiry  [in  Wales],  17. 

Ceton  Delavale.    <See  Seaton  Dclaval. 

Cestretou.    See  Chesterton. 

Chabeham.     See  Chobham. 

Cluulworth,  J ohn,  191. 

,  William,  193. 

Chaigny,  Kahagnes,  charters  dated  at,   136, 
260. 

Chalfont  St.  Giles,  co.  Buckingham,  410. 

Chalford,  co.  Gloucester,  424. 

Challey,  Joho,  487. 

Challock,  Challoke,  co.  Kent,  221. 

Chalon?,  charter  dated  at,  394. 

Chalvelegh.     See  Chawleigh. 

Chambeliain,  John,  prior  of  Ste  Marie,  Cbarite 

sur  Loire,  192. 
Chamberhous,  co.  Berks,  123. 
Chamberlcyn,  John,  406. 

,Robert,  418,  514. 

,  Roger,  134,  573. 

,  William,  66,  67,  135,  568. 

Chamblcy,  David,  379,  540,  541. 
Chambrc,  George  a,  553. 

,  John,  211,  544. 

,  Richard,  195. 

See  also  Chaumbrc,  Achambre. 

Chamer,  George,  450. 
Champenion,  Hugh,  231. 
,  Joan  his  wife,  231. 


Champernon,  Richard,  81. 

,  William,  204,  303. 

,  .Tohn,  224,  561,  563. 

,  Roger,  37,  98,  561,  563. 

, ,  sheriff  of  Cornwall,  224. 

,  Thomas,  1. 

William,  563. 

Ghampyent,  Peter  de,  407. 

Chancellor,  the.    See  Neville  ;  Stillinffton. 

Chancery,  13,  28-84,  47,  52,  53,  65,  67,  68, 
71,  90,  94,  100,  101,  183,  135,  159, 
163,  177,  189,  201-204,  206,  207,  280, 
232,  234,  242,  274,  276,  278, 279,  288, 
290,  299,  301-304,  823,  836--889,  846, 
847,  349,  363-365^371,873,  383,  387- 
890,  427,  442,  446,  449-453,  473,  475, 
488,  489,  491-494,  512,  527,  539,  549, 
552-554,558. 

,  rolls  of,  177. 

, ,  keeper  of,  427. 

Andeee  Kirkeby  ;  Kirkeham;  Stopyn- 
don. 

,  clerks  of  the  crown  in,  8,  45,  53,  59, 

336,  388,  432,  433. 

,  masters  of.    See  Prestewyk;  Wes- 

thorp. 

,  prothonotary  of.     See  Sharp. 

,  spigamel  of,  39. 

Chancton,  Chankton,  co.  Sussex,  88, 464, 465, 
548. 

Chandelier,  Henry,  463. 

,  Joan,  463. 

And  see  Chauudeler. 
Chankton.  See  Chancton. 
Chantries,  licences  for  the  foundation  of,  151, 

180,  382,  421,  447,  449,  462,  483,  516, 

519,  520,  526,541,543. 
Chapeleyn,  Robert,  206,  234. 

,  Thomas,  vicar  of  Therston,  1 2. 

Chapelizod  [co.  Dublin],  59,  178,  183,  188, 

293,  337,  374,  880. 
Chapman,  George,  319. 

,  John,  151,  319,  420. 

,  Stephen,  100. 

,  Thomas,  200. 

Chard,  co.  Somerset,  365,  368. 

Chardstock,  Cerdestoke,  co.  Dorset,  322. 

Charelton.    See  Charleton. 

Charing,  Charryng,co.  Kent,  221,  464,  548. 

Charing  Cross.     See  London. 

Charing  by  Westminster.     See  London. 

Chants  sur  Loire,  la,  alien  house  of,  74. 

I  John    ChambelUiin,  prior    of. 

192. 

Charles,  William,  827. 

, John,  331. 

,  Thomas,  330. 

Charleton.     See  Charlton. 
Charleton,  Thomas,  347,  567. 
Charloys,  count  of.     See  Burgundy. 

Charlttm,  Charieton,  Ctorlton,  co.  Devon 
108.  * 


606 


GENERAL  IKDEX. 


Charlton,  co.  Dorset,  2. 

,  CO.  Qloucester,  131. 

,  CO.  Northumberland,  185,  340,  341. 

,  North,  CO.  Northomberland,  485. 

,  South,  199,  340. 

,  CO.  Wilis,  96,  216. 

, ,  prioiy  of,  108,  150,  431. 

Charlton  Mackrel,  co.  Somerset,  226. 

Horethorne,  Cam  vile,  co.  Somerset, 

170. 

Charlwode,  Thomas,  545. 
Charlwood,    Charlewode,    co.    Surrey,    328, 
482. 

Chames,  Chamus,  William,  327. 

,  John,  831.  ' 

,  Thomas,  330. 

Charryng  bj  Westminster.    See  London. 
Charsfield,  Chasfeld,  co.  Suffolk,  132,  180. 
Charter  Roll,  reference  to,  45. 
Charters  printed  at  length,  61,  166,  250,  259, 

306,  311,  375,  876,  392,  894,  402,  404, 

408,  494. 

Chartesey.    See  Chertsey. 

Chartham,  co.  Kent,  80,  106,  178,  329,330. 

Chartreuse,  la  Grande,  in  Savoy,  128. 

,  prior  and  convent  of,  127. 

Charwelton,  co.  Northampton,  320,  414. 
Chasepool,  Chaspell  [co.  Stafford],  56. 
Chasfeld.     See  Charsfield. 
Chaspell.     See  Chasepool. 
Chattok,  Robert,  71. 

,  William,  264. 

Cbatton,  co.  Northumberland,  199,  340. 
Chauda,  Bartholomew  de,  379 
Chaumbre,  John  de  la,  471. 

,  Ellen  his  wife,  471. 

,  George  de  la,  471. 

See  also  Chambre. 
Chaundeler,  Chaundler,  John,  491. 

,  Thomas,  444,  491. 

, ,  warden  of  New  College,  Oxford, 

54,511. 

, ,  parson  of  Meonstoke,  589. 

,  prebendary  of    St.  Stephen's, 

Westminster,  539. 

Chawleigh,  Chalvelegh,  co.  Devon,  70,  116, 
323. 

Chaworth,  John,  496. 

,  Thomas,  286. 

,  William,  100. 

Chayne,  William,  205. 

Cheam,  Cheyham,  co.  Surrey,  545. 

Chearsley,  Cherdesley,  co.  Buckingham,  473. 

Chechestre.    See  Chichester. 

Cheddar,  Ceddre,  co.  Somerset,  395. 

Chedley,  Chidley,  William,  452. 

Chedword,  William,  316. 

Chedworth,  John,  bishop  of  Lincoln  [1458- 
1471],  11,  208,  224,  243,  283,  284, 
363-366,  868,  524,  526,  569,  560,  565- 
568, 570.  ' 


Chclworth,  William,  567. 

Chedyngfolde.     See  Chiddingfold. 

Chekc,  John,  52. 

Cheldesworth,  Richard,  mayor  of  Sandwich, 
518. 

Chellescombe,  Thomas,  258. 

Chellesworthy.     See  Chilsworthy. 

Chellington,  Chevyngton,  co.  Bedford,   195, 
369. 

Chelmscote,  Chelmescote,  co.  Buckingham, 
195,  369. 

Cholsfield,  Chellesfelde,  co.  Kent,  225. 

Cheltenham,  co.  Gloucester,  144 

..,  hundred  of,  144. 

Chelvestou,  Chestone,  co.  Northampton,  7,  9, 
104,  533. 

Chelworth,  co.  Wilts,  131. 

Chelyngham.     See  Chilli  ngham. 

Cheney,  Cheny,  John,  95,  303. 

Chepman,  John,  526. 

Chepstow,  Jepstowe  [co.  Monmouth],  100. 

,  alien  priory  of,  218. 

Chepyng  Wycombe.  See  Chipping  Wycombe. 

Cherbourg,  in  Normandy,  abbot  and  convent 
of,  161. 

Cherde,  John,  abbot  of  Muchelney,  285. 

Cherdesley.    See  Chearsley. 

Cherryng.    See  Charing. 

Chertesey,  Edmund,  566. 

Chertsey,  Chartesay,  co.  Surrey,  124. 

t  charters  dated  at,  153,  240. 

monastery  of  St  Peter,  140,  185, 436, 

512. 

» I  abbot  and  convent  of,  140,  240, 

380,  467,  512. 

, ,  John,  abbot  of,  240,  467,  513. 

> ,  Thomas,  abbot  of,  140. 

» »  Thomas  Aogewyn,  abbot  of, 

181,  185,  436,  512. 

> ,  William,  abbot  of,  240. 

..• ,  William  Wroughton,  abbot  of, 

180,  185,380,612,513. 
Cheryshetauton    See  Church  Staunton. 
Cheselburgh,  John,  abbot  of  Quarre,  88. 
Cheseldyn,  John,  313. 
Cheseman,  Thomns,  552. 
Chesham,  co.  Buckingham,  187. 
Chesham  Bois,  co.  Buckingham,  582. 

Cheshunt,  Chesthunt,  co.  Hertford,  9,  20,  24, 
92,  388. 

Chesingbury.    See  Chisenbury. 

Chesney,    Robert     de,    bishop    of     Lincoln 
[1147-1168],  392. 

Chesshyre,  Roger,  prebendary  of  St.  Asaph, 
444. 

, parson  of  Corwen,  358. 

Chester,  46,  70,  201,  267,  386. 

,  letters  patent  dated  at,  60,  129. 

,  exchequer  of,  336,  429. 

,  chamberlain  of.     See  Stanley. 

earl  of.     See  Edward ;  Meschines. 

,  mayor  of.    See  Sotheworth. 


GENERAL  INDEX. 


607 


Chester,  county  of,  40,69, 91, 192,209, 327,488. 

,  commonalty  of,  291,  477. 

,  auditors  in,  56. 

Chester,  William,  851. 

Chesterfield.  Cestrefeld,  837. 

,  the  men  of,  337. 

Chesterford,  Great,  co.  Essex,  510. 

Chesterton,  103. 

,00.  Cambridge,  68,  79. 

,  CO.  Warwick,  2,  459,  472. 

'  Chesteynwode,'  wood  called,  co.  Kent,  16, 
77,  213,  834. 

Chestonc.     See  Chelveston. 
Chestre,  Richard  de,  380. 

,  Robert,  375. 

Cheswik.     See  Chiswick. 

Chetelton,  Robert,  459. 

Cheteman,  Thomas,  355. 

Chetwode,  Chitewodf^,  co.  Buckingham,  411. 

priory  of,  137. 

Chevening,  Chevenyng,  co.  Kent,  133. 
Cheyyngton.     See  Chellington. 
Chewe,  hundred  of,  cc.  Somerset,  547. 
Chew  Stoke,  co.  Somerset,  547. 
Cheyham.     See  Cheam. 
Cheylesmore  [in  Coventxy],  227. 
Cheyne,  John,   66,  68,  183,  228,  231,  281, 
373,  429,  560. 

, of  Pynne,  134,  231,  301.  364, 

571. 

, ,  .......  sheriff  of  Kent,  373. 

, ,  the  elder,  532. 

, ,  the  younger,  429,  532. 

,  Laurence,  417,  550. 

,  Ralph,  sheriff  of  Wilts,  551. 

,  WUliam,  76,  429,  461.  574. 

Chich,  Valentine,  94. 

,  Philippa  his  wife,  94. 

,  Margaret,  95. 

Chichele,  Henry.  57,  509,  560. 

,     ,     archbishop    of   Canterbury 

[1414-1443],  148,  310. 

Chicheley,  Master  Thomas,  archdeacon  of 
Canterbury,  38,  870. 

Chichely,  William,  212. 

Chichester,  co.  Sussex,  131,  537. 

,  mayor  and  citizens  of,  229. 

,  port  of,  129,  438,  514. 

,  rape  of,  448. 

,  Rannlph,  bishop  of,  251. 

,  Richard,  bishop  of,  110. 

,  bishop  of.     See  Arundell ;  Clipping ; 

Langton  ;  Neville ;  Rushooke,  Strat- 
ford. 

,  cathedral  of,  110. 

,  dean  and  chapter  of,  110,  422. 

, ,  dean  of.     See  Wayoflete. 

,  diocese  of,  129,  182,  353. 

,  Ticars  of  Holy  Trinity,  422. 

Chichester,  Chiche«tre,  Chechestre,  Richard, 
87,  889,  568. 


Chiddingfold,  Chedyngfolde,  co.  Surrey,  423, 
522. 

Chidiegh,  John,  38. 

Chidley,  29. 

Chidley.     See  Chedley. 

Chigwell,  Chikewell,  Cliykewell,  co.  Essex, 
421. 

Chika,  Goebartns  de,  515. 

Chiksand,  John,  194. 

Childe,  John,  206. 

Childerlangele.     See  Chiltern  Langley. 

Childfrome,  co.  Dorset,  225,  226,  454. 

Childhay,  Childeheys,  co.  Dorset,  256. 

Child  Okeford,  Childokfoid,  co.  Dorset.  70, 
525. 

Chilham,  co.  Kent,  97,  105,  106,  144,  178, 
329,  380,  419. 

Chillescombe,  Thomas,  133. 

ChiUeweU.     See  Chilwell. 

Chillingham,  Chelyngham,  co.  Northumber- 
land, 888. 

Chilmelegh.     See  Chulmleigh. 

Chilsworthy,  Chellesworthy,  co.  Devon,  63, 
210. 

Chiltern,  Chyltyme,  oo.  Wilts,  291. 
Chiltern  Langley,  co,  Hertford,  11,  24,  25, 39, 
50,  118,  301. 

,  Friars  Preachers  of,  156,  556. 

,  Thomas  Welles,  prior  of,  556. 

Chilteme  hundreds,  42. 

Chilton,  CO.  Devon,  286,  367. 

Chiltona,  Alan  d^  892,  393. 

Chilwell,  ChiUeweU  [co.  Nottingham],  57. 

ChUworth,  charter  dated  at,  409. 

Chingford,  Chyngford,  co.  Essex,  IIC,  344, 
356. 

Chinon,  charter  datt:d  at,  405,  497. 

Chippenham, CO.  Wilts,  430. 

,  charter  dated  at,  221. 

,  forest  of,  32,  95,  482. 

Chipping  Norton,  Chepyngnorton,  co.  Oxford, 
197,  287.  419. 

Chipping    Wycombe,     Chepyng    Wycombe, 

Clepyng  Wycombe,  65,  100. 
Chipstaple,  co.  Somerset,  283. 
Chirch,  John,  346. 
ChirchehiU,  in  South  Wales,  119. 
Cbirchelambhithe.    See  Lambeth. 
Chirchestell,  co.  Cambridge,  169. 
Chirk,  David,  526. 
Chirke,  8,  16,  37,  228. 
Chirkeland,  8,  16,  87. 
Chiryden,  John,  261. 
ChisehuU,  John,  460. 
Chisenbury,  Chesingbnry,  oo.  Wilts,  140. 
Chiswick,  Cheswik,  co.  Middlesex,  263. 
Chitewode.     See  Chetwode. 
Chobham,  Chabeham,  co.  Surrey,  317. 

Choke,  Chok,  Chokke,  Richard,  54,  55.  65, 
99,  188,  134,  202.  279,  280,  283,  284, 
803,  804,  846,  347,  365,  374,  488-490, 
529,  530,  586,  559,  564,  570-572,  575. 


(K)8 


GENERAL  INDEX. 


Cboke,  Richard,  justice  of  the  Common  Bench, 
93,98,512. 

Chokes  fee,  480,  481. 

Chorleton,  co.  Stafford,  2. 

Chorlton.     See  Charlton. 

Chosiaco,  John  de,  prior  of  Holy  Trinity, 

York,  375. 
Christ  Church  Twynham  [co.  Southampton], 

prior  and  convent  of,  148. 

,  charter  dated  at,  148. 

Chuddeiegh,  John,  37. 

Chudlegh,  Chidley,  John,  881. 

Chudley,  Robert,  410. 

Chulmleigh,  Cbilmelegh,  co.  Devon,  119,  429. 

Ch&rchchill  [co.  Pembroke],  533. 

Churchill,  Chirchehill,  co.  Somerset,  317. 

Church  Langton.     See  Langton. 

Church  Staunton,  Cheryshetauton,  co.  Devon, 

511. 
Chute,  Shuie,  co  Wilts,  forest  of,  262. 
Chuion,  44. 

Chykewell.     See  Chigwell. 
Chynnok,  John,  abbot  of  Glastonbury,  160. 

, ,  prior  of  Braden?toke,  253. 

ChyrchbykynhuU.     See  Bickenhill. 

Chyshull,  Master  John  de,  160. 

Cicely,  duchess  of  York,  the  king's  mother, 

41,  57,  73,  74,98,  110,  145,  148,  161. 

163,  216,  322,  835,  438,  442,  444,  519. 

letters  patent  of,  300. 

,  grants  to,  48,  110,  131. 

Cicestre.    See  Cirencester. 
Cinque  Ports,  warden  of,  277. 

And  see  Neville. 
Cirencester,  Cicestre,  co.  Gloucester,  15,  84, 

278,  327. 

,  abbey  of  St.  Mary,  325,  334. 

, ,  abbot  and  convent  of,  3,253, 

325,  333. 

, ,  abbot  of,  6,  253. 

, ,  William,  abbot  of,  333. 

, ,  John  Sobbury,  abbot  of,  334, 

343. 

Cistercian  order,  61,  218,  229,  398. 
Cisteme,  Bartholomew,  141. 
Clacton,  Clakton,  Great,  co.  Essex,  421. 
Clainiissel,  de  Claro  Rivalo,  alien  prioress  of, 
78. 

Clairvaux,  Clerevaux,  in  France,  abbot  and 

convent  of,  140,  162. 

,  Bono,  abbot  of,  140, 

Clampord,  Stephen,  23. 

....;....,   ...•»»  the  king's  smith,  232. 

,  Thomas,  79. 

Clampayn,  John,  chaplain  of  the  household  of 

Henry  VI.,  418. 

, ,  vicar  of  Wisbech,  418. 

Clapham,  Clopham,  co.  Bedford,  195,  869. 

,  CO.  Surrey,  451. 

Clapham,  Nicholas,  323. 
Clapthom.     See  Slapthom. 


Clare,  co.  Suffolk,  181. 

,  honour  of,  18, 131,  443,  520. 

,  prior  and  friars  of,  520. 

[Clare,]  Gilbert,  earl  of,  402. 
Clare,  Richard  de,  earl  of  Gloucester   and 
Hertford,  407. 

,  Alice,  mother  of  earl  William  his 

ancestor,  407. 

,  Gilbert  de,  earl  of  Gloucester  and 

Hertford,  128. 

,  John,  508. 

Clareley,  William,  459. 

Clarell,  Richard,  820,  414. 

Thomas,  2,  326. 

Clarendon,  Claryngdon,  co.  Wilts,  II,  14,  15, 
25,  58, 84,  95,  96,  120, 152,  153,  230, 550. 

,  forest  of,  512. 

,  charters  dated  at,  156,  218,  250,  252, 

296, 305,  812, 818, 896, 896, 401, 405, 523. 

Claret  Hall,  co.  Essex,  181. 

Claringcronche.    See  Charing  Cross. 

Claro  Rivalo,  de.     See  Clainiissel. 

Claryngdon.    See  Clarendon. 

Clatford,  co.  Wilts,  priory  of,  73. 

Claver,  Richard,  5. 

Clawton,  Claweton,  co.  Devon,  389. 

Claxby,  co.  Lincoln,  144. 

Clazton,  Robert,  588. 

Clay.    See  Cley. 

Clay,  John,  112,  565. 

, ,  sheriff  of  Essex,  294. 

, ,  the  elder,  92,  4.^6. 

,  Joan  his  wife,  92, 486. 

,  John,  the  younger,  92,  436. 

Claybroke,  Wflliam,  282,  467. 

Claybum,  William,  374. 

Claydon  Steeple,  Steple  Claydon,  uo.  Buck- 
ingham, 181. 

Claygate,  Robert,  506. 

Clayhall,  co.  Essex,  268. 

Claymond,  Thomas,  30, 113,  141,  861. 

Clay  worth,  Claworth,  co.  Nottingham,  816. 

Cle.    See  Clee. 

Clebailly,  in  Rockingham  forest,  48. 

Clebery.    See  Cleobury. 

Glederowe,  Elias,  467. 

,  Isabel,  467> 

And  see  Cliderowe. 

Cledon,  John,  114. 

Clee,  Cley,  co.  Lincoln,  41,  224,  419. 

,  CO.  Salop,  forest  of,  41. 

Cleeve,  Clive,  co.  Somerset,  527. 

,  abbot  and  convent  of,  527. 

,  David,  abbot  of,  527. 

Cleford.     See  Clifford. 

Clelyeston.    See  Chelveston. 

Clemens,  Thomas,  1 1,  28,  34, 40, 68,  102, 201 , 
202,  204,206,238,  278,  389,  488,  561, 
563. 

, ,  steward  of  the  duchy  of  Corn- 
wall, 7. 


GENERAL  INDEX. 


60^ 


Clement,  John,  3,  57,  128,  257. 

,  Thomas,  5,  501. 

,  WiUiam,  57,  269,  509. 

ClementiB,  Vincent,  suhdea^on  of  the  pope 

and  noncio  of  the  apostolic  see,  322. 
Clemowe,  William,  204. 
Clenell,  Thomas,  262. 

Clent,  Glynte,  co.   Stafford,    112,  217,  297, 
485. 

Cleobory,  co.  Salop,  63. 

Clepyng  Wycombe.    Ste  ChippiDg  Wycombe. 

aerc.    See  Clerk. 

Clere,  John,  418. 

,  Edmond,  471. 

.Robert,  471. 

Cierevaax.    See  Clainraux. 

Clergy,  charter  to,  229. 

Clerk,  Gierke,  Clerc,  Henry,  134. 

,  John,  1,  8,  12,  132,   181,  206,  219, 

222,  279,  847,  381,  417,  468,  506,  530, 
566. 

, ,mayor  of  Oxford,  570. 

>> ,  the  king's  apothecary,  122. 

,  Nicholas,  817. 

,  Richard,  87. 

,  Robert,  52,  184,  256,  490. 

,  Thomas,  850,  490. 

William,  16,  264,  546. 

Clerkenwell,  co.  Middlesex,  420. 
Cleton,  John,  chief  butler  of  Ireland,  292. 
Cletop,  CO.  York,  1 16,  186,  435,  465. 
Cleve,  132. 
Cleve,  William,  314. 
Clevccombe,  co.  Dorset,  225,  226. 
Cley,  CO.  Norfolk,  87,  184,  285,  327. 
Cleydou,  William  de,  895. 
Cleylondes,  co.  Sussex,  443. 
Cliderowe,  Elias,  421. 

,  Ralph,  17.  98. 

And  see  Glederowe ;  Clyderowe. 
Cliff  in  Hemingborough,  co.  York,  76. 
Cliffe,  King's  Clifle,  co.  Northampton,  13,  51, 
196,  2)2,  219,  299,  411,  430,  464,  431. 
Cliffe,  John,  221. 
Clifford,  Cleford  [co.  Hereford],  43, 526,  527. 

,  prior  and  convent  of,  81. 

Cliffordcorbyn,  co.  Devon,  372. 
Clifford,  Clyfford,  Alexander,  :M,  566. 

,  Henry,  113. 

,  John,  16,  29,  77,  86,  566. 

,  lord,  91,  111,  113,  116,  118, 

14?,  151,  185,  186,  189,  :i42,  861,  432, 
457,  474,  484. 

,  Roger  de,  307. 

,  Stephen,  347. 

,  Thomas  de,  86. 

, ,  lord  of,  151. 

,  William,  98,  256,  320,  410. 

Clifton,  Clyfton  [co.  Derby],  32. 

>  CO.  Nottingham,  86. 

[co.  Westmoreland],  74. 

f«    86914. 


Clifton,  Clyfton,  co.  Worcester,  131. 

Dartmouth    Hardnesse.     See    Dart- 
mouth. 

Clifton,  Clyfton,  Gervase,  25,  278,  490,  569. 

, ,  sheriff  of  Kent,  86. 

, ,  treasurer  of  Calais,  86. 

, ,  Matilda  his  wife,  273. 

,  John,  83,323. 

,  Robert,  102,  190,  552,  569. 

Clippestone.    See  Glip9tone. 

Clipping,  John,  bishop  of  Chichester,  [1258- 
1262],  251. 

Clippyrig,  John,  489,  491. 

Clipstone,  Clypston,  Clippeston,  co.  Notting- 
ham, 57,  140,  220,  225,  226,  460. 

,  charters  dated  at,  136,  243. 

Clive  (?  Cliffe),  charter  dated  at,  396. 
And  eee  Cleeve. 

Cloford,  CO.  Somerset,  298,  475. 

Clompton.    See  Cluntoo. 

(Mon,  William,  258. 

Clonne.     See  Clnn. 

Clopham.     See  Clapham. 

Clopton,  CO.  Cambridge,  461. 

,  eo.  Somerset,  22ft,  333,859,  360,  365. 

,  CO.  Suffolk,  179,  855. 

Clopton,  John,  83,  79,  113,  573. 

,  Nicholas,  467. 

,  Robert,  sheriff  of  London,  154. 

Cloeehill,  co.  Northumberland,  341. 

Close  Roll,  875. 

Cloth-workers,  grant  to,  158. 

Clovile,  William^  escheator  in  the-  county  of 
Hertford,  388. 

Cloweter,  Nicholas,  207. 
Clownes,  office  of,  380. 
Cloyne,  diocese  of,  278. 

,  archdeacon  of.    See  Roche. 

Clun,  Clonne,  co.  Salop,  443. 
Clnnbory,  Clonbury,  co.  Salop,  448. 
Clanton,  Clompton,  co.  Salop,  443. 
Cluny,  abbey  of,  73,  76. 

order  of,  74, 107,  193, 197.  460. 

Clyderhowe,  Hugh,  the  elder,  508. 

, ,  the  yoonger,  508. 

Clyderowe,  Ralph,  154,  523. 

And  see  Glederowe ;  Cliderowe. 

Clyff.     See  Oiffe. 
Clyff.  William,  298. 
Clyfford.     See  Clifford. 
Clyfton.    See  Clifton. 
Clynte.    See  Clent. 
Clynton.    See  Trayne  Clyntou. 
Clynton,  Henry.  838,  389,  528. 

,  Margaret  his  wife,  339,  528- 

,  Henry  de,  62. 

,  John,  36. 

, ,  of  Clynton,  99,  132,  566. 

Clypston.    See  Clipstone. 

Clvre,  William,  clerk  of  the  works,  69. 

Q  Q 


610 


GENERAL  INDEX. 


Cuut,  kiog  of  England,  charters  of,  250,  408. 

Cobbe,  John,  5,  13. 

Cobbes,  John,  209. 

Cobbeshole,  co.  Kent,  198. 

Cobelyngton.     See  Cublington. 

Cobham,  co.  Surrey,  467,  545. 

CobUam,  Thomas,  32,  180,  205,  489,  588,573. 

And  see  Broke. 

Cobham  Wick,  Wekecobeham,  co.  Devon, 
365. 

Cobley,  John,  274. 

,  Isabel  his  mfe,  274. 

Coboj,  South  Wales,  13. 
Coburlej,  Thomas,  279. 
Cock  in  Stokecourcy,  co.  Somerset,  388. 
Cockam.     See  Cookham. 
Cockermouth,  Cokermouth,  co.  Cumberland, 
87,  149,  434,  485. 

Cockfield,  Cokefeld,  co.  Suffolk,  108,  197, 
287. 

Cocking,  Cokhynge,  co.  Sussex,  443. 

Codam.    See  Cndham. 

Code,  Walter,  34,  68,  100,  101,  201,  278,  561. 

Codeman,  John,  8. 

Codenham,  Edmund,  173. 

Coder,  William,  804. 

Codford  Marie,  co.  Wilts,  546 

Codir,  William,  54. 

Codnor.    See  Gray. 

Codryngton,  Anoetm,  510. 

Codyngton,  cos.  Oxford  and  Berks,  445. 

Cof^,  William,  232. 

Cogan,  William,  216. 

Cogges,  CO.  Oxford,  alien  priory  of,  73. 

Coggeshall,  co.  Btsex,  450,  487. 

,  abbot  and  convent  of,  306. 

Cogle,  Patrick,  clerk  of  the  crown  of  Ireland^ 
72. 

Coinage,  exchange,  mint,  money,  18,  23,  'lO, 
49,  113,  124,  180,  196,  213,  324,  360, 
442,  446,  482. 

And  ate  Calais;  London,  Tower  of; 
Norwich. 

Cokayn,  Cokeyu,  John,  100,  300,  324,  506, 
559. 

Coke,  Cokke,  John,  32,  204,  205,  553. 

, ,  the  younger,  204,  205. 

,  Marjory,  316. 

,  Richard,  316. 

.Robert,  302,  412. 

,  Thomas,  374,  530,  564. 

, ,  mayor  of  London,  279,  291. 

And  see  Cooke. 
Cokefeld.     Sec  Cockfield. 
Cokefeld,  John,  413. 
Cokeham.     See  Cookham. 
Coker,  East,  Escoker,  co.  Somerset,  70. 

,,  North,  70. 

Cokerell,  Richard,  208,  332,  531. 
Cokerelles  in  Havering,  co.  Essex,  32 1 . 
Cokerham,  William,  234. 


Cokermouth.     See  Cockermouth. 
Coket,  John,  the  elder,  547. 

, ,  the  younger,  547. 

,  Walter,  547. 

Cokets,  11,  21,  51,  96,  148,  835. 
Coket  seal,  12,  79,  96,  294, 295, 335, 853,  387, 
423,  432,  448,  513,  515. 

Cokiswall,  co.  Devon,  212,  372. 

Cokke.    See  Coke. 

Cokkes,  John,  414,  490. 

Coldand,  Philip,  68. 

Coklyngton.    See  Cucklington. 

Coksetor,  Thomas,  254. 

, ,  the  younger,  254. 

Colbrace,  Thomas,  28. 

Colbroke.    See  Colnbrook. 

Colbrokford.    See  Colebrook. 

Colbum,  Colbom,  co.  York,  169. 

Colby,  Robert,  2. 

Colchester,  Colcestre,  co.  Essex,  43,  55,  60, 
68,  124,  216,  248,  265,  278,  886,  378, 
507,  531. 

,  archdeacon  of.    "See  Stillington. 

,  St.  John's  abbey,  388. 

, ,  convent  of,  332. 

, ,  John,  abbot  of,  33. 

, ,  John  Canon,  abbot  of,  334,  338. 

, ,  William,  abbot  of,  5,  332. 

Colcombe  by  Minchiuhampton,  co.  Glouces- 
ter, 424. 
And  see  Colecombe. 

Colcote,  in  Ireland,  117. 

Coldale,  Richard,  56,  374. 

Cold  Ashton,  Coldaston,  co.  Gloucester,  153, 
486. 

Coldcote,  Robert,  331. 

Coldham,  Caldam,  Caldeham,  co.  Kent,  88, 
464,  548. 

Colde  Kennyngton,  co.  Middlesex,  25. 
Coldingham,  in  Scotland,  271. 
Coldstream,  248. 

,  charier  dated  at,  249. 

Cole,  Thomas,  417. 

,  William,  184. 

Cole    Orton,      Overton     Quatermars,     co. 

Leicester,  187,  362. 
Colebrook,  Colbrokford,  co.  Devon,  418,  519. 
Coleby,  Peter  de,  500. 
Colecestre,  Joceus  de,  500. 
Colecombe,  Colcombe,  co.  Devon,  116,  323. 
Colemere,  co.  Southampton,  522. 
Coler,  John,  411. 
Coleridge,  Cruldiche,  co.  Devon,  70. 

Coleshill,  ColshuU,  co.  Warwick,  51,  489,  490, 
531. 

Colestoke,  co.  Somerset,  280. 

Colet,  Bartholomew,  parson  of  Great  Hailing- 
bury,  83. 

, ,  parson  of  Hothfield,  83. 

Henry,  828. 

Coleton,  CO.  Cornwall,  372. 


^gi^aai^iiCi 


GENERAL  INDEX. 


611 


ColetOD,  Thomas,  536. 
Colevilla,  William  de,  306. 
Colewill,  CO.  DevoD,  359,  364,  365. 
Golham,  Coleham,  co.  Middlesex,  197»  371. 
Colham  Gardyn,  co.  Middlesex,  371. 
Cplingborn,  William,  475. 
Golkyns,  co.  Kent,  88,  464,  548. 
Collanwode,  John,  269. 

,  Robert,  269. 

Collard,  John,  518. 

Colle,  Walter,  452. 

Colley,  Thomaft,  318. 

CoUingbourDe,  Colyngbum,  co.  Wilts,  331. 

CoUumptou,  Cullumpton,  co.  Devon,  149. 

Collyng,  Richard,  415. 

Colljngs  [in  Cheshunt],  co.  Hertford,  399. 

Collysson,  John,  411. 

Colnbrook,  Colbroke,  co.  Buckingham,  417. 

Colne,  CO.  E«sex,  193. 

And  see  l^tuVa  Colne. 
Cohae  Engaine,  co.  E$sex,  442. 
Colneparke,  co.  Essex,  112. 
Colne  Water,  co.  Essex,  202. 
Cologne,  7,  491. 
Colom,  William,  502. 
Colpepir.     See  Culpeper. 
Colrede,  John,  815,  817. 
Colahull.     See  Coleshill. 
Colshull,  John,  68, 102,  2C4,  488,  561,  568. 

,  William,  308. 

Colsoll.  See  Cossall. 
Colson,  William,  467. 
Colt,  John,  294. 

Colt,  Colte,  Thomas,  86,  76,  107,  116,  215, 
217,  228,  270.  838,  339,  347,  856,  370, 
875,  428,  443,  583, 546,  564. 

,  Thomas,  keeper  of  the  hanaper,  85, 

187. 

t ,  keeper  of  the  rolls  of  Chancery 

of  Ireland,  329. 

Coltishall,  Coateshall,  co.  Norfolk,  liberties  of 
natives  of,  271. 

Colville,  Colvile,  Colvyle,  John,  258,  262, 
304,  497,  576. 

,  William,  576. 

Colvilles,  Colvyles,  co.  Cambridge,  77,  145, 
521. 

Colworth,  00.  Sussex,  280,  528. 

Colwych,  Robert,  418. 

Colj,  in  Ireland,  284,  329. 

Colyer,  Reginald,  prior  of  St.  Bartholomew, 
Smithfield,  497. 

Colyford,  co.  Devon,  116,  323. 

Colyford,  Edward,  4. 

Coljn,  John,  389. 

,  Oto,  204,  653. 

,  Thomas,  507. 

Coljn&li,  wood  called,  22. 

Colyng.    See  Cooling. 

Colyngboum,  Henry  de,  prior  of  Suthwerk, 
807. 


Colyngboum,  William,  15,  78,  293,  388. 

Colyngruge,  John,  551. 

Colyns,  John,  508. 

Colyton,  CO.  Devon,  116,  828. 

Colywell,  Colewill,  Colywyk,  co.  Devon,  333. 

Combe,  74. 

,  CO.  Devon,  372. 

,  CO.  Kent,  493. 

,  CO.  Oxford,  300,  386. 

by  Lambfordmylle    [co.   Cornwall], 

488. 

Combe  Martin,  Comemartyn,  co.  Devon,  7, 
10,  104. 

Combepync,  co.  Devon,  108. 

Seton,  CO.  Devon,  108. 

Combe  Raleigh,  co.  Devon,  506. 
Combe,  Thomas,  25,  29,  230,  550. 
Comberford.     See  Cumberford. 
Comberworth.     See  Cumberworth. 
Combes  [co.  Suffolk],  411. 
Combisdane,  co.  Kent,  544. 
Comemartyn.     See  Combe  Martin. 
Commissions  de  waUiia  et  fossatis,  35,  205, 
280,  349,  451,  528. 

Compton,  CO.  Devon,  309. 

...,  CO.  Sussex,  88,  108,  150,  465,  548. 

,  CO.  Wilts,  131. 

,  Long,  CO.  Warwick,  153,  486. 

,  Murdok,  co.  Warwick,  489,  490. 

Paunoefoot,  co.  Somerset,  536. 

Compton,  Thomas,  32,  545. 

Comyn,  John,  59. 

,  Alice  his  wife,  59. 

,  Simon,  271. 

Conches,  abbot  of,  73. 

Concistorio,  John  de,  4 1 . 

Condorowe,  Nicholas,  256. 

Conede.    See  Cound. 

Conesburgh.     See  Conisbrougb. 

Coneysthorpe,  Conyngesthorpe,  co.  York,  684. 

Congerstone,  Cunston,  co.  Leicester,  187,362. 

Congresbury,  Cungresbnry,  co.  Somerset,  395. 

Conisborough,  Connesburgh,   co.   York,  22, 
180,  343,  479. 

,  le  Hermitage  by,  421. 

Conisholm,    Connyngesholme,    co.    Lincoln, 
184,  427,  468,  473. 

Coniston,  Munkcouyston  fco.  Lancaster]  ,4  92. 

Connanght,  Connagh,  in  Ireland,  196. 

Connesburgh.    See  Conisborough. 

Connor,  bishop  of.    See  Down. 

Connors,  the,  in  Ireland,  181. 

Connyngesholme.    See  Conisholm. 

Conset,  CO.  Durham,  294. 

Constable,  John,  81,  66,  102,  230,  231,  348, 
349,  576. 

, ,  sheriff  of  York,  360. 

,  Robert,  89,  66,  86,   102,   192,  206, 

231,  348,  349,  451,  530,  567. 

,  ,  of  Flamborough,  30,  31,  281, 

367,  576. 

Q  Q   2 


612 


GENERAL  INDEX. 


ConstantTxi,  Master,  393. 
Constantjne,  William,  420. 

» »  sheriff  of  London,  525. 

Convers,  John,  125,  279. 
Converts,  House  of.     See  under  London. 
Conway,  Aberconeweye,  co.  Carnarvon,  69. 
,  burgesses  of,  400. 

Conwey,  Master  William,  canon  of  Baneor. 
357.  * 

Cony,  Robert,  191,  478. 

Conye,  Walter,  mayor  of  Bishop's  Lynn,  28, 
o2. 

Conyers,  Christopher,  538 

John,  30,  66,  102,  116,  233,  333,450, 

530,  576. 

,  John,  the  elder,  466. 

Maijor>'  his  wife,  466. 

9  John,  the  younger,  466. 

,  Robert,  205,  568. 

,  William,  30,  492,  576. 

Conynggysholme,  John,  parson  of  Runcton, 

Hardwick  and  Setchy,  125. 
Coode,  Robert,  323. 
Cook,  CDoke,  Master  David,  36. 

,  Henry,  82. 

John,  28,413. 

» ,  parson  of  Bromeswell,  173. 

Richard,  418,  504. 

,  Thomas,  27,  225,  319,  507. 

f ,  mayor  of  London,  228,  231. 

,  William,  526. 

And  see  Coke. 
Cook  bury,  co.  Devon,  265. 
Copleston,  John,  303,  459. 

,  Philip,  87. 

Copley,  lliomas,  29. 

Cookham,  Cockam,  Cokehara,  co.  Berks,  54, 
77, 148,  149,  837,  430,  444,  481. 

,  hundreds  of,  445,  481. 

Cooling,  Colyng,  co.  Kent,  421,  483. 

Cooper,  Robert,  mayor  of  Cambridge,  561. 

Coortelowe,  John,  412. 

Coote,  Coot,  William,  871,  567. 

Cope,  John,  317. 

Copelandc,  co.  Cumberland,  87. 

Copeland,  Richard,  450. 

Copeldike,  Coplcdyk,  Copuldyk,  John,  95. 

» ,  mayor  of  Sandwich,  281. 

I ,  bailiff  of  Wiuchelsea,  83. 

Coperland,  co.  Kent,  548. 

Copinis,  Francis  de,  bishop  of  Terni,  proctor    i 
of  the  king  at  the  court  of  Rome,  56. 

••» ,  legate  of  the  apostolic  see,  59. 

Coppidbusshe,  in  South  Wales,  119,  533. 

Copyndale,  John,  31. 

Corbet,  John,  140. 

,  Robert,  295,  336. 

,  Roger,  491. 

, ,  of  Moreton^  551. 

, Elizabeth  his  wife,  551. 

,  Thomas,  98,  670. 


Corbet,  William,  320. 

Corbridge,    Corbrigge,  co.  Northumberland, 
199,  341. 

Corbiig,  Nicholas,  280. 

,  Thomas,  280 

Corby,  co.  Northampton,  170. 

Corby,  Robert,  122. 

Corfe,  Corff,  co.  Dorset,  31, 197, 282, 358,  532. 

f  charter  dated  at,  498. 

Corff,  John,  540. 
Corfham,  co.  Salop,  268. 
Cork,  in  Ireland,  51. 

, ,  port  of,  198. 

■...,  citizens  of,  892. 

»  mayor  and  commonalty  of,  214. 

,  mayor  of,  278. 

,  bishopric  of,  273. 

,  Jordan,  bishop  of,  273. 

Combury,  co.  Oxford,  7,  359. 

letters  patent  dated  at,  71. 

Combrough,  Comeburgh,  co.  York,  447. 
Corneburgh,  Alfred,  16,  19,  64,  78,  137,  204, 
220,  233,  276,  323,  357,  447,  553,  561. 

» escheator  of  the  duchy  of  Corn- 
wall, 64. 

Comeburght,  Averay,  371. 

Cornemonffer,  Gilbert,  mayor  of  Southampton. 
530". 

Cornet  Castle,  Guernsey,  34. 

Cornewaill,  Cornewale,  Cornewayl,  John.  28. 
97,413.  ^  • 

,  Elizabeth  his  wife,  97. 

,  Oto,  83. 

,  Katharine  his  wife,  83. 

...    .....Thomas,  45,   76,   111,  182,  264,424, 

428,434,441,456,475. 

Coruewaleys,  John,  chief  barcn  of  the  Exche- 
quer in  Ireluml,  466. 

,  justice  of  the  Common  Bench  in 

Ireland,  466. 

Cornforth,  Cornesfort,  co.  Durham,  393. 

Cornhcll,  Bernard  de,  167. 

Cornwall,  county  of,  7,  19,  23,  28,  33,  34,  44, 
46,  64,  f  3,  94, 102.  Ill,  120,  143,  144, 
201,  203,  204,  208,  217,  283,  263,  276, 
804,  349,  389.  39 J,  439,  452,  482,  488, 
529,  516,  553. 

»  ,  sheriff  of,  28,34,36,68,100, 

102,  203,  20G,  278,  389,  452,  458,  472, 

488,  545. 

And  see  Champernoun ;  Bere. 

> escheator  in,  107,  363,  465. 

» mines  in,  19,  23,  197,  519. 

» ,  stannary-men  in,  482. 

» coinage  of  tin  in,  23,  80,  268, 

439,  519. 

> ,*commission8  ol  the  peace  in,  561. 

» outlawries   in,  254,  382,  418, 

513,  544. 

,  duchy  of,  11,  16,   19,40,56,  64,78, 

80,119,120,  123,  126,129,149,201, 
211,  217,  221,  260,  268-270,  293,  332, 
344,  489,447,  532,  544. 


GENERAL  INDEX. 


613 


CornwaU,  duchy  of,  steward  of.  See  Clemens ; 
Stafford. 

> ,  receiver  general  of ,  11,  14,  16, 

18.  23,  40,  44,  54,    111,  120,  126, 143, 
844,  519. 

And  see  Hastynges ;  Brekenok ; 
61oac68tre ;  John  ;  Whityngham ; 
KendaU. 

, ,  auditors  of,  83,  149,  381,  461. 

And  see  Broke  ;  Aleyn  ;  Bedford. 

, ,  escheator  of.     See  Comeburgh. 

, ,  receipt  of,  170. 

,  archdeaconry  of,  80. 

,  dake  of .    5ee  Edward. 

Reginald,  earl  of,  408,  494. 

,  earl  of.     See  Richard ;  Edmund. 

,  John,  lord  of  Fauuhope,  517. 

Cornwood,  Cornewode,  co.  Devon,  119,  429. 

Comyssh,  Richard,  505. 

,  Thomas,  9,  448,  522. 

,  WiUiam,390. 

Corragh  Mede  [co.  Meath],  117. 

Corre,  James,  466. 

Corringham,  Coryngham,  co.  Lincoln,  wapen- 
take of,  451. 

Corsdale,  William,  415. 

Corset,  John,  491. 

Corsham,  co.  Wilts,  198. 

[co.  Salop],  41. 

Corston,  co.  Somerset,  423. 

Corum,  William,  508. 

Correser,  Thomas,  490. 

Corwen  [co.  Merioneth],  358. 

Corwen.    See  Curwen. 

Cory  Malet.    See  Curry  Mallet. 

Coryngham,  John,  510. 

Coryton,  Cor^-ngton,  Edward,  457. 

Cosham,  Cossam,  co.  WUti^,  8,  11,  14,  57,  72, 
145,  177,  289, 827,  430,  482. 

,  alien  priory  of,  145. 

Cosnet,  William,  416. 

,  Edmund,  416. 

Cossall,  ColsoU,  co.  Nottingham,  411. 

Cossam.     See  Cosham. 

Cossington,  co.  Leicester,  854. 

Costard,  Francis,  412. 

Costell,  John,  520. 

Costenet,  William,  coroner  in  the  county  of 
Worcester,  553. 

Coston,  CO.  Norfolk,  211. 

Costryne,  William,  202. 

Cosyn,  Master  Malcolm,  prebendary  of 
Caddington  Major  in  St.  PauPs,  Lon- 
don, 543. 

, ,  prebendary    of  St.    Stephen*!^, 

Westminster,  543. 

,  Robert,  17,  20,  530. 

And  see  Cousyn. 

Coteler,  Richard,  parson  of  Walton-on-the 
Hill,  800. 

Cotes  by  Lotiglilwrough,  co,  Lcicefter,  362. 
by  Ingham,  115. 


Cotes  by  Stowe  St.  Mary,  co.  Lincoln,  282. 

Cotes,  C^tys,  Cottes,  John,  414,  415. 

,  Richard,  351. 

Thomas,  216,  462. 

Cotford,  Walter,  126. 

Cothelstone,  Cotheleston,  co.  Somerset,  286, 
366. 

Cotingham,  John,  abbot  of  St.  Mary*8,  York, 

828. 
Coton,  prebend  of,  387. 
Coton,  Ralph,  505. 
Cottam,  Cotum,  co.  Nottingham,  543. 
Cottesmore,  co.  Rutland,  209,  282. 
Cottesmore,  John,  justice  of  the  Bench,  419. 

Cottingham,     Cotyngham,    Cotyngham,    co. 

York,  57,  63,  83. 
Cottisford,  Cottesford,  co.  Oxford,  73. 
Cotton,  John,  32. 

,  Thomas,  154. 

,  Walter,  154. 

,  William,  46. 

Cotyngham,  Robert,  302. 
Cotyngham.     See  Cottingham. 
Coudray,  Edward,  390. 
Cound,  Gonede,  co.  Salop,  443. 
Counstabie,  Thomas,  195. 
Counte,  Benedict  le,  500. 
Counteryng,  Moses,  41. 

Countess  Meadow  in  Bumpstcad,  co.  Essex, 
197. 

Counthorpe,  co.  Lincoln,  336. 

Countree,  John,  233. 

Couper,  Edmund,  319. 

,  Henry,  416. 

,  Richard,  518. 

.Thomas,  418. 

,  William,  194,  266,  414. 

And  see  Cowper. 

Coupuldyk,  John,  the  elder,  358. 

, ,  the  younger,  3.')8. 

Court,  Henry,  220. 

Courte,  John,  135,  414. 

Courtenay,     Courtney,     Curtenay,     Curteo, 
Henry,  70,  119,  429,  553,  572. 

Hugh,  36,  204,  233,  452,  488. 

,  Humphrey,  33,  204. 

,  John,  85,  148,  424,  630, 

,  Peter,  368. 

,  Philip,  33,  87. 

,  knight,  28,  33,  87,  98,204,232, 

562. 

,  Reginald  de  [temp.  Hen.II.]  ,342,39.3. 

,  Thomas,  fifth  earl  of  Devon,  70,  86, 

429. 

, ,  sixth  earl,  13,  32,  84,  70,  85, 

86,94,105,  118,  118,  153,  215,  220, 
263,  859,  425, 429,  452,  476,  486. 

,  William,  99,  202,  563,1571. 

Courteys,  Roger,  204. 

Cowrihofpe,  William,  362. 

Cousyn,  Cousin,  John,  550. 

■  •.,  Robert,  50,  184,  437. 


614 


GENERAL  INDEX. 


CousyD,  John,  keeper  of  the  king's  great  ^vard- 
robe,  436. 

CouteAhale.     See  Coltish&ll. 

Cove,  Richard,  33,  34. 

Coveley.     See  Cowley. 

Coventre,  Edmand,  536. 

,  Henry,  268, 

Coventry,  Coventre,  44, 56,  66,  80,  133,  175, 
227,  258,  277,  285.  324,  487,  490,  505, 
531,537. 

mayor  and  commonalty  of,  168,  236. 

,  mayor  of,   524. 

And  see  Brograve. 

,  mint  at,  446. 

,  charter  dated  at,  155. 

,  archdeacon  of.     See  Kilkenny. 

,  outhiwry  in,  172,  418,  420,  605. 

St.  Mary*8  priory,  85. 

, ,  convent  of,  90,  227,  581. 

.,, , ,  prior  of,  199. 

, .\,, ,  John  Shotteawell,  prior  of,  90. 

, , ,  Thomas  Deram,  prior  of,  85. 

, , , ,  sub-prior  of,  85. 

,  St,  Anne's  by,  prior  and  convent  of, 

157. 

, ,  Robert,  prior  of,  158. 

Coventry  and  Lichfield,  diocese  of,  48,  55, 
270,  300,  379,  381,  387,  518,  550. 

,  bishop  of.     See  Hales ;  Longespee . 

Coverdale,  Roger,  chaplain  of  Eccleswell,  93. 

Covert,  John,  390. 

Cowbridge,  Coabrugge,  co.  Glamorgan,  men 

of,  427. 
Cowelyng,  Robert,  206. 
Cowfolde,  CO.  Sussex,  555. 

Cowick,  Cowyk,  co.  Devon,  alien  priory  of, 
222,  273. 

Cowley,  Coveley,  co.  Buckingham,  440. 

,  CO.  Stafford,  327,  331. 

Cowle,  Richard,  280. 

,  Robert,  280. 

,  Thomas,  264. 

Cowepere,  John,  chaplain  of  the  charnel- 
house  of  St.  Paul's  cathedral,  Loudon, 
420. 

Cowper,  John,  318,  511. 

,  William,  135. 

Covrton,  North,  North  Cowton,  co.  York,  169. 

,  South,  CO.  York,  169. 

Cowton,  Thomas,  54. 

Coydrath,  in  South  Wales,  1 14. 

,  forest  of,  114. 

Crabbe,  WiUiam,  503. 

Crabden,  Robert,  173. 

Crabhay,  co.  Cornwall,  372. 

Crackenthorpe,  Crakenthorpe,  co.  Westmore- 
land, 536. 

Cradley,  Cradeley,  CO.  Worcester,   112,   223, 

261,  297. 
Craell.     See  Crail. 
Craford,  Richard,  80. 
Craforth,  Richard,  49. 


Crafthole,  CrofthuU,  co.  Cornwall,  225,  227, 
331. 

Crafton,  John,  48. 

Crail,  Craell,  in  Scotland,  50. 

Crake,  Alexander,  63,  134. 

Crakenthorp,  John,  of  Holgill,  575. 

Crambourn,  in  Windsor  Forest,  44,  439. 

Crambom  [co.  York],  876,  377. 

Crambume.    See  Cranbome. 

Cranborne,  Crambume,  co.  Dorset,  S,  54,  55, 
87. 

,  CO.  Wilts,  51. 

Crane,  Henry,  52. 
Craneleston,  in  Ireland,  117. 
Craneboum.    See  Cranborne. 

Cranebroke,  Henry,  parson  of  West  Tilburj, 
296,  339. 

, ,  parson  of  Burwasb,  339. 

Cranfield,  co.  Bedford,  331. 

Cranmore,  East,  Estrannemerc,  co.  Somerset, 
265. 

Cransley,  Crannesley,  co.  Northampton,  35, 
369. 

C  ran  well,  William,  382. 

Cratfield,  Cratfeld,  co.  Suffolk,  199,  387,  454. 

Cratfeldhall,  co.  Suffolk,  887. 

Crathom,  Ralph,  348. 

Craucumb,  Godfrey  de,  395. 

Craven,  co.  York,  342. 

Crawden,  co.  Cambridge,  210. 

And  see  Croydon. 
Cray,  North,  co.  Kent,  544. 
Creake,  Creyk,  co.   Norfolk,   St.   Mary   de 

Pratis,  John,  abbot  of,  508. 
Creations  of  peers,  325, 332. 
Crecy,  John,  223. 
, ,  dean  •f  St-.  Mary,  Shrewsbury, 

94. 

, ,    prebendary    of   St.    Stephen, 

Westminster,  94. 

Creech,  Criche,  co.  Dorset,  131. 

Creef,  Robert,  206. 

Creekstown,  Cruyston,  co.  Meath,  117. 

Cregge,  co.  Sussex,  451. 

Creke.     See  Crick. 

Creke,  Thomas,  135. 

Creklade,  Nicholas,  385. 

Cremyll  Passage,  cos.  Devon  and  Cornwall, 

536. 
Cremyll,  WiUiam,  232. 
Cropping,  Croppyng,  co.  Essex.  193,  197. 
Cressener,  Ralph,  134,  180,  205. 

Creswell,  Carswell,  co.  Hereford,  alien  priory 
of,  218. 

Creswell,  Henry,  26. 

,  Richard,  206,234. 

,  William,  206,  234. 

Creting,  Cretyng,  co.  Suffolk,  alien  priory  of, 

73. 
Cretingham,  Cretyngham,    co.   Suffolk,   179, 

355. 

Crewkarne,  Richard,  256. 


GENERAL  INDEX. 


615 


Crewkerne,    Crokehorne,    Crakern,    Troke- 

horoe,  CO.  Somerset,  70,  185,  225,  227, 

831,  420. 

,  hundred  of,  70. 

,  chantry  of  St.  BCarj  in  church  of,  70. 

Crewys,  John,  254,  508. 

Crich,  CO.  Derby,  414,  420. 

Criche.    See  Creech. 

Criche,  Robert,  prior  of  Montacute,  107. 

Crick,  Creke  [co.  Northampton],  107. 

Crickhowell,  Crughowell,  268. 

Crickhide,  Crykelade,  co.  Wilts,  181. 

..,  men  of,  265.  * 

Cricksea,  Crjkeshithe,  Kyrk  Hithe,  co.  Essex, 

259,  818. 
CrioiU,  Bertram  de,  408. 
Chriiithwaytt.     See  Gristhwaite. 
Cristien,  280. 
Cristmasse,  Stephen,  880. 
Cristyn,  William.  297. 
Crockpmwell,  Crokkeme  Well,  co.  Devon,  54, 

227,  859,  872,  490. 
Croft,  Crofte,  Nicholas,  825. 

,  Richard,  847. 

,  the  elder.  44,  182,  475,  575. 

i  ,  the  younger,  42,  44,  84,  89, 

108.  278,  848,  844,  478. 
,  Thomas.  108,  278,  843,  478. 

, ,  sherifF  of  Merioneth,  358. 

Crofte,  CO.  Lincoln,  112,  151,  371. 
Croftes,  John,  4. 
Crofthull.    See  Crafthole. 
Crofton,  CO.  Lancaster,  145. 

,.,  CO.  Somerset,  459. 

Crofton,  William,  666. 

Croke,  Edward,  parson  of  Lilley,  318. 

,  John,  351,  428,  502,  504. 

,  Robert,  385. 

Crokehom,  Dan  William,  abbot  of  Muchelney, 

478. 

.,  Richard,  256. 

Crokesden.    See  Croztou. 
Crokker,  Geoffirey,  314. 

John,  204,  314. 

,  Richard,  314. 

,  William,  490. 

Crokkeme  Well.    See  Crockemwell. 
Crome,  Nicholas,  266. 
Cromer,  Crowemer,  co.  Norfolk,  469. 
Cromly,  in  Ireland,  293. 
Cromlyn,  in  Ireland,  1 1,  329. 
Cromwell.  Ralph,  lord,  44.  273. 

And  see  Crumwell. 

Crope,  John,  527. 
Croppyng.    See  Cropping. 
Cropweli  Bishop.  Bysehopcrophill,  co.  Not- 
tingham. 255. 
Cros,  Peter,  457. 
Crosby.  Crosseby.  John,  351,  487. 

, ,  vicar  of  Wrothain,  1. 

Crosman.  William.  3. 


Crosse.  Henry,  52. 

John.  411,490. 

,  Thomas,  28,  32,  504, 

Crosse,  William,  374,  190. 
Crosseby.     See  Crosby. 
Crossthwaite.   Crossetwhaitc.   co.    We«  more- 
laud,  169. 

Croucestre,  Edmund,  485. 

.Richard.  21,485. 

Croude.    See  Crowde. 

Croule.     See  Crowle. 

Crowde,  Croude,  William,  19,  509. 

Crowe,  John  the  younger.  1 73. 

,  Thomas,  52. 

Crowemer.     See  Cromer. 

Crowhurst.  Crowehurst,  co.  Sussex,  138,  407. 

Crowle,  Croule,  co.  Worcester,  91,  888. 

Croxby,  co.  Lincoln.  371. 

Croxton,  Crokesden,  oo.  Cambridge,  444. 

Croxton,  Thomas,  189.  288,  457, 565. 

,   coroner  and  attorney  in  the 

King's  Bench,  1,  15. 
Croydon,  Crawden,  co.  Cambridge,  461. 

,  CO.  Surrey.  545. 

Croydon,  Thomas,  48. 
Croyland.  co.  Lincoln,  137. 

„ ,  abbot  and  convent  of,  137,  421. 

Croysse  Lloyd,  co.  Monmouth,  425. 

Croysse  Meurik  Vaghan,  co.  Monmouth,  425. 

Cmce,  Maurice,  278. 

Crud  worth.     See  Curd  worth. 

Crukem.    See  Crewkerne. 

Cruldiche.    See  Coleridge. 

Crumwell,  Ralph,  treasurer  of  England,  310. 

And  tee  Cromwell. 
Crundell,  Crundale,  co.  Kent,  330. 
Cruse.  Maurice.  202. 
Crust,  John,  256. 

Crustwich,  co.  Essex,  193,  197,  292. 
Cruyston.    See  Creekstown. 
Crykelade.    See  Cricklade. 
Cryxhethe.    See  Crioksea. 
Cubert,  Robert,  206. 
Cublington,    Cobelyngton,  oo.    Buckingham, 

195,  369. 

Cucklington.  Coklyngton,  co.  Somerset,  443. 
Cudbert,  William,  428. 
Cudham,  Codam,  co.  Kent,  419. 
Cudlawe,  co.  Sussex,  443. 
Culford,  charter  dated  at,  166. 
Callumpton.    See  CoUumpton. 
Culpeper,  Colpepir,  John,  566. 

Richard,  102,  269.  301,  566. 

Culreton.     See  Kilton. 
Culworth,  CO.  Northampton,  5. 
Cumberford,  Comberford,  William,  459,  572. 
Cumberland  county.  40.  66,  109,  132.  138, 
890,  477. 

,  sheriff  of.     See  Lowthvr. 

,  eitcheator  in,  220,  332,  353. 


1 

■ 
t 


610 


GENERAL  INDEX. 


Cumberland,  commissious  of  the  peace  in,  561. 

Cumberworth,  Coinberworth,  co.  Lincoln, 
468. 

Cumkairan.    See  Cwmcarvan. 

Congresbuij.     See  Congenbury. 

Cunnesburgh.    See  Conieboroagb. 

Connisthorp,  376. 

CuntBtable.    See  Constable. 

Cunstoii.     See  Congrestone. 

Cuntyes,  co.  Norfolk,  186. 

Cupper,  Thomas,  vicar  of  Kingsclere,  259. 

Cur,  Marciot  le,  451. 

Curci,  Bichard  de,  376. 

,  Robert  de,  376. 

Cnrdworth,  Crudworth,  co.  Warwick,  172, 
490. 

Carle,  John,  416. 

Curry  Mallet,  Cory  Malet,  co.  Somerset,  23, 
115,  198,  293,  862. 

Curson,  John,  31,  81,  135. 

Robert,  473. 

,  Thomas,  253. 

Curteney.    See  Coortenay. 

Curteo.     See  Courtenay. 

Curteys,  Brian,  419. 

,  Henry,  842. 

,  John,  855,  373,  378,  418,  419,  508. 

,  Peter,  354. 

,  Richai^,  278,  347. 

,  Robert,  175. 

,  William,  38. 

Cnrteyse,  Thomas,  37. 

Curweu,  Corwen,  Thomas,  561. 

Curwyn,  William,  550. 

Customs,  21,  51,  59,  63,  76,105,  117,  137, 
143,  195,  198,  224,  229,  269,  289,  332, 
987,  422,  426,  432,  436,  438,  444,  465, 
518,  530,  540,  543,  546. 

.great,  12,  13,  79,  106,   188,294,295, 

358,  386,  423,  432,  440,  448,  458,  466, 
518,  515. 

,  petty,   10,  12,  22,  55,  61,  63,  79,  95, 

106,  188,  198,  223,  263,  269,  275,  294, 
345,  353,  363,  386,  387,  432,  440,  458, 
472,513,515. 

,  of  wools,  hides  and  wool-fells,  10,  11, 

65,  63,  92,  107,  116,  181,  148.  149, 
182,  222,  223,  229,  267,  336,  345,  863, 
378,  432,  466,  487. 

Ctttwolf,  Robert,  prior  of  Newstead  in  Shir- 
wode,  22. 

Cwmcarvan,  Cumkarvan,  co.  Monmouth,  425. 


D. 


Dabemon,  Richard,  544. 

Dabzac,  John,  36,  452. 

Dacre  [co.  Cumberland],  122,  140,  534. 

Dacre,  Edmund  de,  140. 

>  Giles,  188. 


Dacre,  Thomas,  140,  534. 

knight,  140,  534. 

,  lord  Dacre,  40. 

I  And  aee  Fenys. 

I   Dagenhams  in  Havering,  co.  Essex,  321. 

Dagnale,  Thomas,  204. 

Dagvile,  WilUam,  570. 

Dakkes,  Margaret,  92. 

Dalahowe,  John,  280. 

Dalamar,  Dalamore,  Thomas,  263,  435,  553. 

Dalbere,  co.  Derby,  7,  9,  104. 

Dalberelees,  co.  Derby,  7,  9,  104. 

Dalby,  Little,  co.  Leicester,  254. 

Dalby,  John,  254. 

,  Richard,  511. 

Dale.    See  Deal. 

Dale,  Edward,  62. 

,  George,  110,  117,  127. 

,  Thomas,  86,  507. 

Daleby,  Robert  de,    master    of  Rurton    St. 

Lazarus  of  Jerusalem,  136. 
Dalley.    See  Dawley. 
Dallington,  Dalyngton,  co.  Sussex,  138. 

Dallyng,  Simon,  warden  of  the  Hall  of  Holy 

Trinity,  Cambridge,  473. 

,  Master  William,  94. 

I    Dalston,  Daweston,  co.  Cumberland,  382. 
Dalton,  James,  262. 

,  WiUiam,  510. 

Dalyngrigge,  Richard,  37,  206,  444,  572,  574, 

Damery,  John,  253. 

Damett,  Robert,  410. 

Damme,  John,  200,  203,  205,  568. 

Dammory,  Richard,  330,  445,  480. 

Damport,  James,  123,  460. 

Danby,  co.  York,  169. 

Dauby  Wisk,  co.  York,  336. 

Danby,  Robert,  30, 65,  99, 132, 133,  201,  204, 

206,  233,  270,  279,  281,  803,  304,  346, 

347,  458,  488-490,  496,  529,  530,  552, 

562,  566-570,  574,  576. 

> ,  chief  justice  cf  the  Bench,  1,  7, 

19,  39,  49,  57,  91,  128,  172,  178,  177, 
181,  211,  216,  225,  253,  284,  295,  297, 
318,  314,  316,  381,  383,  410,  412,  414, 
415,  413,  420,  439,  469,  470,  474,  476, 
485,  501,  503-506,  511-513,  519,  526, 
631,  537,  538,  644. 

Dandolo,  Marino,  459. 

Dane,  co.  Kent,  88, 121,  465,  549. 

Danecourt,  Daynconrt,  co.  Kent,  88, 464,  548. 

Dange.    See  Dengey. 

Dangore,  John,  122. 

Daniell,  Thomas,  479. 

Danke,  Simon,  506. 

Dankestyr.    See  Doncaster. 

Dansey.     See  Dengey. 

Dansk.    See  Danzig. 

Danvers,  Richard,  264,  278. 

Robert,  66,  99,183,   178,  201,279, 

300,  301,  303,  304,  846,  347,  488-490, 
529,  .530,564-567,  570.  573,  574. 


GENERAL  INDEX. 


617 


Daovcrs,  Robert,  justice  of  the  Beuch,  14. 

,  Katbariaehis  wife,  178. 

,  Roger,  574. 

,  Anne,  178. 

,  Irabd,  178. 

,  Sybil,  178. 

,  William,  559. 

Danyell,  Edward,  501. 

,  Gasyn,  142. 

,  George,  82,  279,  565. 

,  Henry,  82. 

,  John,  878,  578. 

,  Robert,  416. 

»  Thomas,  111,  182,  200,  452,  458. 

, ,  sheriff  of  SafEolk,  175. 

William,  50, 141,  441. 

Danyelslond,  co.  Devon,  372. 

Danyshampton,  co.  Devon,  265. 

Danang,  Dansk,  in  Prussia,  349,  350. 

,  ship  called  Buyshule  of,  349. 

Darcey,  Jolin,  lord,  469. 

••• , ,  Joan  his  wife,  469. 

Darcy,  Robert,  4.1,  564. 

Darell,  George,  8,  90,  101,  182,  177,  274. 

, ,  keeper  of  the  great  wardrobe, 

17,  202. 

.,  Isabel,  478. 

,  Pan],  452. 

,  Richard,  572. 

Thomas,  193. 

,  William,  882,  566. 

Darlond,. Richard,  19,  95. 

Darlton,  Derlyngton,  co.  Nottingham,  22G. 

Darset,  Thomas,  849. 

Darsset,  William,  472. 

Dart,  Derte,  river,  142. 

Dartford,  co.  Kent,  279. 

,  prioress  and  convent  of,  167,  556. 

Dartington,  Dertyngton,  co.  Devon,  7,  10, 
104, 142. 

Dartmoor,  Dertmore,  co.  I>evun,  forest  of, 
126,  860,  482. 

Dartmouth,  Dertmouth,  Clifton  Dartmouth 
Hardenesse,  co.  Devon,  23,  75,  187, 
225,  226,  230,  807,  308,  412,  454. 

,  port  of,  12,  20,  72,  75,  187. 

,  CO.  Devon,  mayor  of,  37. 

And  tee  For<ter. 

,  mayor  and  burgesses  of,  75,  307. 

Danmdell,  Richard,  328. 

Dasse,  John,  489. 

Danbeny,  Daubeney,  Alice,  6,  800. 

,  Giles,  6,  299. 

,  William,  6,299. 

Daubeney s,  Dawbeneys,  co.  Middlesex,  176, 

326. 

Dandelegh,  James,  142. 

,  Thomas,  142. 

And  see  Andeley. 
Daonce,  Philip,  412. 
Dauncy,  Robert,  169. 


Danndcsey,  John,  176. 

Daune,  Hagh,  73. 

Daunoe,  John,  102. 

Daunt,  John,  101. 

Dauson.    See  Dawson. 

Dautre,  Robe^,  253. 

Davell,  Hichard,  parson  of  PJBuplingue,  176. 

Daventre,  Robert  de,  430,  480. 

,  Simon  de,  430,  480. 

Daventry,  co.  Northampton,  316. 

David,  earl  (of  Huntingdon ),  312. 

,  Blias,  367,  522. 

David  ap  Howell,  219. 

ap  Javan,  rector  of  Acton  Bumell,  94, 

459. 

ap  John,  296. 

Davy.  Henry,  278,  547. 

William,  279,  547. 

,  John,  52,  55,  57,  59,  154,  337,  488. 

Oliver,  242,  531. 

,  Thomas,  202,  410. 

Davyson,  John,  505. 

Robert,  342. 

Dawekyn,  Thomas,  174. 

Daweston.    See  Dalston. 

Dawley,  Dalley,  Dalleley,  o.  Salop,  316,317, 
443. 

Dawney,  Peter,  455. 

,  Ance  his  wife,  455. 

Dawson,  Dauson,  Daweson,  John,  443,  492. 

,  Robert,  378. 

,  Roger,  412. 

,  Roland,  492. 

...,Thumas,  413. 

,  WiUiam,  4,  552. 

Dawys,  John,  40. 

Dax,  in  Aquitaine,  b3. 

Daye,  John,  185. 

Dayncourt.    See  Danecourt. 

Deakisbeare,  co.  Devon,  372. 

Deal,  Dale,  Dele,  Deyll,  co.  Kent,  88,  159, 
465,  548. 

Dean.    See  Dane. 

Dean,  Little,  co.  Gloucester,  169,  533. 

Dean,  Dene,  co.  Gloucester,  forest  of,  18,  24, 
91,  117,  325,329,  361,  375,  432. 

,  CO.  Wilts,  546. 

Prior,  CO.  Devon,  505. 

Dean,  Thomas,  32. 

Deane,  William,  197. 

Debbenham,  John,  1. 

Debenham,  Debynham,  Gilbert,   28,  66,  67, 
135,  420. 

, the  elder,  33,  573. 

, ,  the  younger,  52,  206. 

, 9 •  clerk  of  the  market  of 

the  household,  8. 

Debracunhac,  John,  284. 

Decone,  Thomas,  533. 

Deconson,  John,  125. 

Dedewodd,  John,  284. 


618 


GENERAL  INDEX. 


Dedham,  co.  Essex,  272. 

Dedifihome.    See  Dittisham. 

Dedo,  Peter,  12. 

Deeping,  Depyng,  co.  Lincoln,  131. 

,  West,  CO.  Lincoln,  131. 

Deerhurst,  Derhurst,  DruHi,  co.  Gloucester, 
alien  priory  of,  196. 

,  hundred  of ,  148. 

De  la  Hay,  Gerard,  299,  560,  565. 

Pelamare,  Thomas,  474,  559. 

Delamore,  Thomas,  253. 

, ,  Margaret  his  wife,  253. 

Delatour,  Antony,  130. 

Delehay,  Nicholas,  514. 

Delf,  John,  410. 

Delft»  in  Holland,  348. 

Delves,  John,  572. 

Denardake,  co.  Cornwall,  220. 

Denbigh,     Dinhiegh,     Dynbigh,     in    North 

Wales,  24,  43,  51,  60,  62,  63,  89,  129, 

421. 
Dene,  co.  Kent,  403,  464,  548. 

And  see  Dean. 
Dene,  John,  1,  389,  419. 

,  Robert,  320. 

,  Thomas,  489. 

Dengey,  Dange,  co.  Essex,  535. 

,  Dangebrigge,  CO.  Essex,  535. 

,  Dangehall,  co.  Essex,  169,  535. 

,  Dansey,  co.  Essex,  169,  535. 

Dengyn.     See  Dingle. 
Denham,  5. 

,  CO.  Berks,  445. 

Denham,  John,  89,  144,  303,  370,  518. 

,  Charles,  Karl,  38,  232,  283. 

,  Roger,  233. 

And  see  Dynham. 
Denmark,  286,  378. 

,  king  of,  469. 

Dcnneye  [co.  Cambridge],  abbess  and  sisters 

of,  239. 

,  Joan,  abbess  of,  289. 

Dcnnington,    Donyngton,  co.    Suffolk,    179, 

355. 

Denny,  Denne,  cO.  Gloucester,  293,  519. 

Denny,  Christopher,  492. 

Denshill,  Densyll,  Richard,  87,  364,  365,  368, 

389. 
Denston,  John,  573. 
Dent^  John,  111. 
Denton,  co.  Kent,  830. 

,  CO.  Lincoln,  520. 

Denton,  John,  66. 

,  Richard,  520. 

,  William,  294. 

Deny,  William,  816. 

Denyngton,  John,  abbot  of  Tavistock,  536. 
Denys,  John,  301,  846,  364,   865,  868,  389, 
563. 

,  Maurice,  201,  531. 

, ,  sheriff  of  Gloucester,  229. 


Denys,  Alice  his  wife,  531. 

,  Michael,  457. 

,  Robert,  882,  573. 

,  Roger,  535,  542,  543. 

,  Walter,  882. 

,  William,  37,  506. 

Denysshe,  John,  75. 

Deptford,  Depford,  co.  Kent,  131,  264. 

Depjrng.    See  Deeping. 

Depyng,  John,  511. 

Deram,    Thomas,    sub -prior  of  St.   Mary's, 
Coventry,  85. 

, ,  prior  of  the  sanlc,  85. 

Derant,  William,  505. 

Derby,  2,  82,  96,  430,  436,  480. 

,  burgesses  of,  155. 

,  hospital  of  St.  Leonard  at,  51, 

,  county  of,  29,  31,  40,  57,  100,   102, 

117,  133,  134,  226,  860,  857,  436,  444. 

, ,  sheriffof,  81,  35,  100,  102,134, 

135,  226,  280,  304, 357,  486,  480,  554, 
562. 

Arid  see  Monte  Gomeri  ;  Leek. 

, ,  escheatOT  in,  85,  220,  332,  334, 

455,  524,  534. 

, ,  outlawry  in,  420. 

,  ,  commissions  of  the  peace  in, 

562. 

Derby,  Henry  de  (earl  of),  326. 

,  John,  880,  374. 

,  William,  374. 

Dereham,  East,  co.  Norfolk,  266,  317. 

Derfeld.    See  Driffield. 

Derfold,  co.  Sussex,  138. 

Derham,  John,  530. 

Derlyng,  William,  276. 

Derlyngton.    See  Darlton. 

Derlyngton,  Reginald,  256,  320,  410. 

,  Robert,  256,  820,  410. 

Demeford,  James,  37. 

Demforth,  co.  Cambridge,  525. 

Demton,  Thomas,  prior  of  Holy  Trinity,  York , 
450. 

Dernyngham  Dyke,  co.  York,  237. 

Derrant,  John,  389. 

Derte.    See  Dart. 

Dertford.    See  Dartford. 

Dertmore.    See  Dartmoor. 

Dertmouth.    See  Dartmouth. 

Dertyngton.    See  Dartington. 

Derwent  by  Catton,  co.  York,  342. 

,  Went,  river  [co.  York] ,  35,  223,  451, 

528. 

,  [co.  Cumberland],  106,  466. 

Derydo,  John,  4. 

Desenyng,  6. 

Desereius,  Dominic,  1 1 . 

Desmond,  Thomas,  earl,  196,  263,  340. 

)  .......  deputy  lieutenant  in  Ireland 

270,  516. 

Desney,  John,  36. 


GENERAL  INDEX. 


619 


Despenser,  Edward  le,  427. 

....«....,  Hugh  le,  59,  810,  895. 

,  Thomas,  lord,  119. 

Deth,  John,  439. 

Detysham.     See  Dittisham. 

Deaelyssh.    See  Dewlish. 

D«upkauleis,  Bernard,  284. 

Deve,  John,  parson  of  Ewhurst,  858. 

, ,  viear  of  Tenterden,  353. 

Develyn.     See  Dublin. 

DeTenjsshe,  John,  75,  205,  489,  574. 

,Bichard,  416. 

,  William  172. 

Devereux,  Walter,  486. 

, of  Ferrers,  38,  45,  65,  98,  100, 

126,  132,  151,  153,270,  280,  886,  855, 
546,  564. 

,  Anne  his  wife,  151. 

Devizes,  la  Vise,  Vyse,  co.  Wilts,  8, 1 1,  32, 64, 
95,  198,  274,  317,  430,  482. 

,  major  and  burgesses  of,  240. 

,  charters  dated  at,  235. 

Devon,  county  of,  19,  28,  28,  33,  34,  87,  44, 
64,70,76,  83,  94,99,  102,  111,  117, 
119,  122,  129,  148,  144,  160,  201,  204, 
217,  232,  233,  268,  283,  284,  301,  804, 
349,378,  391,  428,  439,  440,  452,  529, 
530,  532. 

,  sheriff  of,  99,  389,  429,  459,  490, 530. 

And  see  Arundell. 

,  escheator  in,  107,  363,  455. 

And  see  Hudy  ;  Gille. 

,  outlawries  in,  3,  4, 178-175,  181,  254, 

256,  314,  315,  317,  319,  320,  382,  410, 
412,  414,  417,  418,  501,  508,  505,  509, 
511. 

,  mines  in,  19,  23,  197,  519. 

,  stannaries  in  19,  489. 

,   ,    warden    ot     See    Dynham; 

Stafford. 

stannary  men  of,  84. 

,  tin  and  lead  in,  44,  546. 

,  coinage  of  tin  and  lead  in,  23, 80, 268, 

519. 

justices  of  the  peace  in,  476. 

,  commissions  of  the  peace  in,  562. 

,  earl  of.    <See  Courtenay. 

,  countess  of.    See  Ferrers ;  Fortibus. 

Dewchurch,  co.  Hereford,  872. 

Dewlish,  Deuelyssh,  co.  Dorset  111,  200,  458. 

Dewsalh  Deweswall.  co.  Hereford,  372. 

Dey,  John,  281. 

,  Richard,  317. 

Deyll.    See  Deal. 

Diabella  the  Jewess,  500. 

Dicson,  Robert,  492. 

Dido,  Peter,  12. 

Diffymbrian,  in  South  Wales,  114. 

Digby,  Dygby,  co.  Lincoki,  179,  355. 

Dighy,  Dygby,  Bverard,  168,  177,  354,  486. 

Digger,  Dygges,  John,  102,  215,  429,  566. 

,  Thomas  215. 


Dinas,  Dynase,  in  Wales,  268,  526,  527. 

Dinbiegh.     See  Denbigh. 

Dingestow,  Dyngstowe,  co.  Monmouth,  425. 

Dingle,  Dengyn,  in  Ireland,  51. 

Diptford,  Dupeford,  co.  Devon,  368,  505. 

Dirham,  John,  560. 

Diseworth,  co.  Leicester,  317. 

Dishforth,  Dysseford,  co.  York,  169. 

Dis»,  CO.  Norfolk,  411. 

Disierth,  Dysserth,  co.  Flint,  27,  437. 

Dissmgton,  North,  co.  Northumberhmd,  265. 

Ditchbum,  West,  co.  Northumberland,  485. 

Dittisham,  Dedishome,  Detysham,  co.  Devon, 
192,  320. 

Ditton,  Dutton,  co.  Kent,  419. 

Ditton,  charter  dated  at,  406. 

Dixon,  Dixson,  Dyxon,  John,  458,  492. 

,  Nicholas,  45. 

,  Thomas,  151,  303. 

Dobbes,  John,  570. 

Dobeney,  Thomas,  855. 

Docking,  Dockyng,  co.  Norfolk,  alien  priory 
of,  73. 

Dockyng,  Dokkyng,  Robert,  410,  528,  566. 

Dodbrook,  Dodebrokeburgh,  co.  Devon,  509. 

Dodde,  William,  291,  816,  817,  442. 

Doddinghnrst,   Dodyngherst,   Duddynghurst, 
CO.  Essex,  184,  193,  197. 

Doddington,  Dodyngton,  co.    Northampton, 
195. 

,  Great,  369. 

Doddington  Pygot,  co.  Lincoln,  35,  528. 

Dode,  John,  214. 

Dodford,  Doddeford,  co.  Worcester,  priory  of, 
321. 

Dodington,  co.  Salop,  443. 
Dodym,  Richard,  100. 
Dodyngton.     See  Dunton. 
Dogettes,  co.  Essex,  145. 
Dogmanton,  John,  32. 
Doke,  William,  819. 
Dokeray,  James,  117. 

Doket,  Master  Andrew,  president  of  Queen's 

College,  Cambridge,  495. 
Dokkyng.    See  Doeking. 
Dokyll,  Richard,  545. 
Doland,  Richard,  parson  of  Ijeveland,  387. 
Dolfyn,  John,  488. 
Dolman,  Richard,  293. 
,  William,  293. 

Dolton,  Dovelton,  Dowelton,  co.  Devon,  119, 
429. 

Dolyngeham,  Thomas,  374. 

Dolyngham.    See  DnlliDgham. 

Domesday  Book,  94,  512. 

Dommer.     See  Dummer. 

Don,  Doon,  Donne,  river,  35,  223,  451,  528. 

Don,  Done,  Donuc,  John,  3,  65,  111,  134,  301. 
430. 

»  sheriff  of  Carmarthen  and  Car- 

digaii,  40. 


620 


GENERAL  INDEX. 


Don,  John,  mayor  of  Southampton,  67. 
, f  Elisabeth  his  wife,  430. 

And  see  Doune. 
Donaghmore,    Danamore,    co.   Meath^    124, 

840. 
Donboyng.    See  Dunboyiie. 
Doucaster,  Dankestyr,  co.  York,  323,   410, 

411,443,508. 

,  letters  patent  dated  at,  291. 

,  charter  dated  at,  161. 

Donerdall.     See  Dunnerdale. 

Donet,  John,  194,  266. 

Dongledy,  in  South  Wales,  114. 

Donne.     See  Don. 

Donington,  Donyngton,  co.  Leicester,    104, 

354. 
upon  the  heath,  co.  Leicester,  177, 

354 

,  CO.  Lincoln,  (69. 

Donsford.     See  Donsford. 

Donsland,  co.  Devon,  872. 

Donstonborough.    See  Dunstanburgh. 

Dontisburn.     See  Duntisbom. 

Dontissh,  co.  Dorset,  111,  200,  458. 

Donton.     See  Danton. 

Donwyohe.     See  Donwich. 

Donyngton.      See   Dennington,    Donington, 

Dunningtou,  Danton. 

Donyngton,  John,  2. 

,  Thomas,  508. 

Doo,  John,  316. 
Doon.     See  Don. 
Doon,  John,  143. 

Dorchester,  Dorcestrc,  co.  Dorset,  60,  154, 
379,  480,480,517. 

,  burgesses  of,  427. 

,  hospital  of  St.  John  Baptist  at,  1 4 1 . 

Dore,  Dowre,  co.  Hereford,  abbot  and  convent 
of,  388,  424. 

Dore,  Geoffrey,  411,  524. 

,  WilUam,  101. 

Dorell,  Thomas,  193. 

Doreward,   Dorward,  John,  184,   180,   205, 

449. 

.., ,  the  elder,  83,  83,  564. 

, ,  the  younger,  83. 

Dorham.     See  Durham. 

Dorking,  Dorkyng,  co.  Surrey,  88,  465,  587, 

548. 

Dorlet,  John,  172. 

Dorset  county,  8,  82,  34,  85,  44,  57,  78,  75, 
87,  92,  94,  98,  101,  107,  111,  124,  128, 
129,  134,  144,  149,  160,  178,  185,  203, 
218,  281,  262,  263,  288,  284,  304,  379, 
391,  452,  484,  489,  515,  529,  530. 

,  sheriff  of,  98,  134,  208,  480,  489,  530, 

558. 

Ajid  see  Stafford. 
,  escheator  in,  82,  107, 188,  884,  868. 

And  see  Gille ;  Mauncell. 

,  outlawries  in,  172,  413,  416. 

,  ulnage  of  cloth  in,  22. 


Dorset,  justices  of  the  peace  in,  101. 

,  commissions  of  the  peace  in,  .563. 

Dorston,  co.  Hereford,  372. 

Doublesquiele,  Ralph,  446. 

DoQghton,  CO.  Gloucester,  131. 

Douglas,  James,  earl  of,  105,  115,  116,291, 
432. 

,  John,  105,  115. 

,WiUiam,517. 

Doune,  Hugh,  73. 

,  John,  84,  38,  569. 

And  see  Don. 

Dounes,  Kalph,  31. 

Dounton,  462. 

Dounton  Weylate.    See  Danton  Weylatt 

Dounton,  Thomas,  180,  205. 

Dourysshe,  Thomas,  the  yoanger,  99. 

And  see  Dowerissh. 

Dovedale,  Bobert,  chief  justice  of  the  Common 
Bench  in  Ireland,  21. 

Doyedall,  Thomas,  284. 

Dovehon.     See  Dolton. 

Dover,  co.  Kent,  24,  194,  264,  266,  267. 

,  constable  of  the  castle  of,  203,  277. 

And  see  Neville. 

..• ,  port  of,  159. 

,  charters  dated  at,  159,  898,  404,  557. 

,  St .  Martin's,  prior  and  convent   of, 

159. 

, ,  John  Newenham,  prior  of,  159. 

•• ,  hospital  of  the  House  of  God  at,  397. 

Dover,  Thomas,  490. 

Dovercourt,  co.  Essex,  278. 

Doverdale,  co.  Worcester,  91,  888. 

Dovonrre,  Nicholas  de,  master  of  Burton  St. 
Lazarus  of  Jerusalem,  136. 

Dowdall,  Thomas,  the  king's  serjeant  at  law 
in  Ireland,  184. 

Dowelton.    See  Dolton. 

Dowembell,  Edmund,  889. 

Dowenet,  Ealph,  204. 

Dowenyng,  John,  415. 

Dowerissh,  Dowriche,  Thomas,  87,  452,  490, 
568. 

, ,  the  younger,  568. 

Dowes,  John,  125. 

Dowlish,  West,  co.  Somerset,  290. 

Down  and  Connor,  Richard,  bishop  of,  262. 

Downe.     See  Doune. 

Downell,  Nicholas,  343. 

Downe  XJnfravile,  co.  Devon,  108. 

Downham,  co.  Essex,  76,  197. 

,  CO.  Suffolk.  508. 

Downham,  John,  abbot  of  Beauchief,  280. 

,  Thomas,  parson  of  Witherne,  73. 

I>owuhamford,  Dunhampford,  co.  Kent,  199. 

,  hundred  of,  408. 

Downhead,  Dunhead,  co.  Somerset,  226. 

Downs,  the,  65,  203. 

Dowre.     See  Dore. 

Dowthwaite,  Touthwaitc,  co.  Cumberland,  109. 


GENERAL  INDEX. 


621 


Doxfordy  Duxfeld,  oo.  NorthumbdrlaDd,  265. 

Doyle,  Geoffrey,  267. 

Doyly,  Simon,  319,  510. 

DraghtoD.    See  Drayton. 

Draghton,  John,  254. 

Drake,  John,  175. 

Draper,  John,  parson  of  Buckingham,  433.! 

,  Thomas,  109,  347,  614. 

Drayton,  131. 

,  CO.  Middlesex,  197. 

,  West,  CO.  Middlesex,  371. 

,  CO.  Northampton,  ^IS, 

,  CO.  Somerset,  108. 

,  CO.  Sassex,  465,  548. 

,  Fen,  Fendrayton,  co.  Cambridge,  218, 

502. 

,  Dry,  CO.  Cambridge,  158. 

,  Draghton,  cu.  Norfolk,  174. 

Drayton,  John,  185,  259. 

,  Nicholas,  418. 

,  Richard,  279,  476. 

,  William,  476. 

Dreng,  376. 

Drewe,  John,  the  elder,  180. 

, the  younger,  180. 

,  Henry,  283,  234,  314. 

Dre>v8teington,  Teyngton  Drewe,  co.  Devon, 
814. 

Driffield,  Dryffeld,  Derfeld,  co.  York,  258, 
502. 

,  Great,  316,  508. 

Driiond,  Robert,  133. 
Drogheda,in  Ireland,  21. 

,  port  of,  11,  21,  121,  335. 

,  statute  of,  40. 

Droitwich,  Wyche,  co.  Worcester,  91,  131, 

388. 

,  hospital  of  St.  Mary  at,  287. 

Droungolou,  co.  Cornwall,  197. 

Drue,  William,  258. 

Druell,  Master  John,  89. 

, ,  parson  of  Fulham,  415. 

Dniry,  Thomas,  414. 

,  William,  547. 

Drast.     See  Deerhurbt. 

Dryffeld,  William,  511. 

Dryland,  Richard,  509. 

,  Valentine,  367. 

Drylond,  Robert,  301. 

Drypool,  co.  York,  237,  509. 

Dryson,  Thomas,  82. 

Dryver,  John,  264. 

Duardyny,  265. 

Diibeney,  John,  256. 

Dublin,  Develyn,  in  Ireland,  21,  26,  40^  54, 
76,  184,  21.%  293. 

I  Parliament  at,  272. 

..,  portof,  11,  21,  121,335. 

,  mayor  of.     See  Bumell. 

county,  72. 


Duddynghurst.     See  Doddinghurst. 

Dudcley,  William,  dean  of  Wolverhampton, 
60. 

Dudley,  John,  443. 

,  lordof  Duddcley,332,458,541. 

, ,  treasurer  of  the  houMehold  of 

Henry  VI.,  120. 

,  Oliver,  278. 

,  William,  444. 

Dudman,  John,  72. 

Dudbtone,  Budeston,  co.  Gloucester,  hundred 
of,  293. 

Dad  well,  Dude  well,  co.  Sassex,  188. 

Dafleld,  John,  837. 

William,  canon  of  St  Peter's,  York, 

174. 

,  ,  canon  of  St.   Mary's,  South- 
well, 174. 

,  ,  canon  of  St.  John's,  Beverley. 

174. 

Doffield,  CO.  Derby,  81,  288. 

Dnhald,  Pelenant,  879. 

Dake,  Richard,  22. 

,  Walter,  268. 

,  William,  284. 

, mayor  of  Exeter,  33,  35,  37. 

Doket,  Robert,  575. 

Dukmanton,  Thomas,  23,  100. 

Dulcote,  CO.  Somerset,  434. 

Dallingham,  Dolyngham,  co.  Cambridge,  179. 

Dulverton,  co.  Somerset,  8. 

Dummer,  Dommer.  co.  Southampton,  182. 

Dunaniore.    See  Donaghmore. 

Danboyne,  Donboyng,  co.  Mtath,  1 17. 

Duncan,  Robert,  318. 

,  Master  Thomas,  parson  of  Bisley, 

129. 

Danche,  John,  52. 

Dandalk,  co.  Louth,  74. 

Dundee,  in  Scotland,  191,  221,  248. 

Duneheved.    See  Launceston. 

Donglasse,  in  Scotland,  47. 

Dunham,  John,  259. 

Danhampford.     See  Downhamford. 

Dunhed.    See  Downhead. 

Dunmow,  co.  Essex,  180,  205. 

Dunne,  John,  188. 

Dunuerdale,  Donerdall  [co.  Lancaster],  492. 

Dunningtou,  Donyngton,  co.  York,  454. 

Dunsford,  Donsford,  eo.  Devon,  54,  227,  859, 
372. 

Dunstable,  co.  Bedford,  prior  and  canons  of, 
251. 

t  letters  patent,  dated  at,  421. 

,  charter  dated  at,  497. 

Dunstanburgh,  Donstonborough,  co.  Northum- 
berland, 262,  517. 

Dunstaple,  John,  6. 

Dunstode,  oo.  Northumberhind,  84 1 . 

Dunstcr,  co.  Somerset,  30,  99,  200,  286,  366. 
609. 

Dunston,  co.  Lincoln,  167. 


622 


GENERAL  INDEX. 


Dunthorn,  William,  621,  558. 

Duutisbom,  Dontisbum,  oo.  Gloaeester,  197. 

DaDtisbom  Rous,  co.  Gloucester,  424. 

DuDton,  Donton,  Donyngton,  co.  Bucking- 
ham, 121,  867,  478. 

Duoton  Weylstt,  Dounton  WejIate,co.  Essex, 
76. 

Dunwich,  Donwycbe,  co.  Stt£folk,  hospital  of 
Holy  Trinity  called  'Measondieu'  at, 
536. 

Daodo,  James,  60. 

Dupford.    See  Diptford. 

Duport,  John,  451. 

Duram,  John,  64. 

Duras.     See  Dureford. 

Duraunt,  John,  255. 

Duredent,  Walter,  32. 

Dureford,  Galiard,  of  Duras,  66. 

Durham,  328,  893. 

,  letters  patent  dated  at,  6,  8,  25,29, 

52,  479. 

,  charter  dated  at,  558. 

,bUhopric  of,  89,   122,144,  215,261, 

347,  863,  375,  390,  549,  550. 

,  bishop  of,  402. 

And  tee  Bothe )  Bek ;  Pudsey ;  Flam- 
bard ;  Poor ;  Kirkham  ;  Stichell ; 
Poitiers. 

,  Aumeric,  archdeacon  of,  398. 

,  John,  archdeacon  of,  893. 

,  priory  of  St.  Cuthbert,  392,  393. 

, prior  and  monks  of,  392. 

, ,  Algar,  prior  of,  392. 

Durham,  Dorham,  John,  prior  of  the  monas- 
tery of  St.  Mary,  Newstead  in  Sher- 
wood, 11,  79. 

,  William,   perpetual  vicar    of  Brid- 

kirke  in  Allerdale,  co.   Cumberland, 
502. 

Durieurd.     See  Duryards. 

Durleigh,  Durley.  co.  Somerset,  192. 

Dumeford,  co.  Devon,  372. 

Dursley,  Duresley,  co.  Gloucester,  438. 

Duryards,  Durieurd,  co.  Devon,  146. 

Dutton.     See  Ditton. 

Duxfeld.     See  Doxford. 

Duza.    See  Mounteferant. 

Dyconson,  John,  280. 

,  Robert,  280. 

,  Roger,  506. 

Dyer,  Hugh,  92. 

,  John,  206,  507,  510. 

,  William,  202. 

Dygby.    SecDigby. 

Dygges.    See  Digges. 

Dygiyve,  John,  374. 

,  Thomas,  374. 

Dymmok,  John,  320,  506. 

,  Thomas,  89,  144,  567. 

Dynas.    See  Dinas. 

Dynbrigh.     See  Denbigh. 

Dynbyegh.    See  Denbigh. 


Dyne,  John,  64,  174. 

Paul,  64. 

Dyngeley,  Louis,  504. 

Dyngley,  Thomas»  280. 

Dyngleyse,  co.  Kent,  88,  464,  548. 

Dynham,  Charles,  338,  860,  864,  414,  563  % 

,  Joan,  75,  298,  420,  461. 

,  John,  98,  459,562. 

,  ,  esquire,   64,    126,  228,     333, 

859,  363-366,  369,  439,  476,  512. 

, ,  knight.  75,  298,  459,  476. 

,  Philippa  his  wife,  459. 

,  Oliver,  parson  of  Cheshunt,  9. 

,  Roger,  333,  360,  364. 

warden  of  the  stannarieft  in 

Devon,  19. 

Dyrham,  John,  560. 

Dyrido,  John,  536. 

Dys,  John,  385. 

Dysseford.    See  Dishforth. 

Dyssertb.     See  Disserthe. 

Dyve,  John,  288,  568. 

Dyxe,  Robert,  4. 

Dyxon.    See  Dixon. 


E. 


Eadbald,  charter  of,  403. 

Eagleton,  Egelton,  co.  Hereford,  372. 

Eakring,  Ekeryng^  co.  Nottingham,  87. 

Eacdington,  Arthyngton,  co.  Salop,  prebend 
of,  184. 

EarPs  Barton,  co.  Northampton,  369,  431. 

Earl's  Colne,  co.  Essex,  197. 

Earthcott,  Erthecote,  co.  Gloucester,  531. 

East,  CO.  Cornwall,  hundred  of,  204. 

Eastbourne,  Estbom,  co.  Sussex,  87,  88,  465, 
548. 

Eastergate,  Gates,  co.  Sussex,  145. 

Easterlings,  276. 

East  Hall,  Esthall  (in  Paglesham),  co.  Essex, 
104,  486. 

,  00.  Kent,  225. 

East  Ham,  co.  Essex,  898. 

Easthampstead,  Esthamstede,  co.  Berks,  51, 
53,  90. 

,  charters  dated  at,  210,  251. 

East  Hope,  Esthope,  co.  York,  169. 

Easthorpe,  Esthorp,  co.  Leicester,  104,  352. 

Eastling,  Eslyng,  co.  Kent,  380. 

Eastlound,  Estlande,  co.  Lincoln,  484. 

Eastnets,  Estnasse  without  Colnewater,  co. 
Essex,  202. 

Easton  Hall,  Estonhall,  co.  Essex,  1^97,  287. 
Easton    by    Stamford     [co.    Northampton], 

charter  dated  at,  400. 
East  Stour,  Esture,  co.  Kent,  419. 


J 


GENERAL  INDEX. 


623 


Kastwell,  CO.  Kent,  862, 544. 

Eastwood,  Estwode,  Estwodcle^h,  co.  Essex, 
23,  268. 

EHthorne,  Ethorn,  co.  Cornwall,  197. 

Ebbosham.    See  Epsom. 

Ebmede,  John,  12,  206. 

Ebrighton.    See  Ibberton. 

EbringtOD,  Eburton,  co.  Gloucester,  183, 192. 

Ebrjngton,  co.  Dorset,  225,  227,  331. 

Eburton.     See  Ebrington. 

Eburton,  William,  128. 

Ebworthy  in  Woodbury,  co.  Devon,  414. 

Ecclesale,  co.  Chester,  488. 

Ecclesfield,  co.  Torlc,  prior  of,  1 58. 

Bccleshall,  E^leshale,  co.  Stafford,  34. 

Ecdeston,  co.  Lancaster,  140,  145,  584. 

Eccleawell,  Egulleswall  [co.  flereford],  93. 

EchiDgham,  Ecbyngham,  Thomas,  205  429, 
451,  493. 

Ecton,  CO.  Northampton,  111,  431. 
Eddewurth,  Stephen  de,  160. 
Ede,  William,  319. 
Edelimeton.    See  Edmonton. 
Eden  river,  co.  Cumberland,  82. 
Edenestowe.    See  Sdwinstowe. 
Edenham,  Ednam,  co.  Lincoln,  141,  179,  361, 
508.  • 

Edenworth.    See  Edingworth. 

Edgar,  king  of  England,  charters  of,    159, 

249,  897,  400,  406,  408. 
Kdgeworth,  Eggeworth,  co.  Gloucester,  372. 

Edinburgh,  Edynburgh,  in  Scotland,  53,  152, 
182,210,271. 

Edington,  Edyndon,  eo.  Wilts,  monastery  of, 
312. 

,  William  Godewvn,  rector    of, 

312. 

Edingworth,  Edenworth,  Edyngworth,  co. 
Somerset,  117,419,484. 

Edith  Weston,  Ediweston,  co.  Rutland,  priory 
of,  158. 

Ediweston.    See  Edith  Weston. 
Edlington,  co.  York,  511. 
Edlyngton,  William,  468. 
Edmond,  John,  51. 

,  Nicholas,  ^66. 

,  Thomas,  14,  201,  321. 

Edmondes  Maner  in  Wingrave,  co.  Bucking- 
ham, 478. 

Bdmondson,  Henry,  815. 

Edmonton,  Edelmeton,  Edmynton,  co.  Middle- 
sex, 108,  176,  826,  352. 

Edmund,  charter  of,  408. 

Edmund,  earl  of  Gomwall,  157,  158. 

,  charter  of,  818. 

,  earl  of  Lancaster,  son  of  Henry  III. 

186,  398. 

earl  of  Rutland,  the  king's  brother, 

10,  76,  92,  98,  106,  142,  151,  218,  822, 
348,  428,  444,  516,  587. 

Edmundestfaorp  in  Kyngesclere,  oo.  South- 
ampton, 259. 


Edmynton.     See  Edmonton. 

Ednam.     See  Edenham. 

Edon,  Hugh,  386. 

Edryngton.    See  Erdyngton. 

Edward  the  Confessor,  king  of  Engli^d,  22, 
196,  402. 

:..,  charters  of,  61,   159,  165,  236,249, 

250,  252,  397,  401,  408,  404,  408,  409, 
498,  555. 
'    Edward  L  king  of  England,  71,   158,    190, 
223,  260,  267,  286,  346,  373,  428,  463, 
524,  557. 

,  letters  patent  of,  137, 140,  149,  157, 

166,  236-238,  244,  246,  250,  311-313, 
838,  853,  398,  401,  403,  405,  407,494, 
496,  556. 

,    charters  of,   62,  78,84,  109,    189, 

140,  148,  153,  156-158,  160,  161,  165, 
166,  170,  171,  190,  228  285-237,  240, 
243,  246, 247,  249,  252,  264,  296,  299, 
306,  809,  312,  313,  392,  S93,  396,  398 
-401,  403,  405-409,  446,  482,  495, 
497-499,  555,  557,  558. 

,  when  prince,  charters  of,  311,  477. 

Edward  II.  27,  115,  267,  2S2,  286,  346,  393, 
463,  485,  524,  534,  556. 

,  letters  patent  of,  60,  149,  156,  157, 

159,  162,  171,  237,  238,  244,  246,  247, 
299,  807,  311-818,  338,  407,  485,  497, 
556. 

,  charters  of,  59,  78,  84,  109, 189, 146, 

148,  153,  159-161,  165,  168,  170,  171, 
221,  229,  23.V240,  243,  245,  247,  249- 
252,  299,  805,  308,  309,  311-313,  340, 
392-894,  897,  898,  400-401,  403-407, 
427,  446,  495-499,  527,  555,  557,  558. 

,  when  prince  of  Wales,  churter  of, 

810. 

Edward  m.  7,8,  10,  11,  14-19,21-27,  89, 
40,  42,  44,  46,  48-50,  53,  56,  59,  64, 
72,  75,  77-80,  83,  86,  89,  90,  98,  96, 
97,  113,118,  119,122-125,  127,128, 
180,  187,  138,  140,  143,  144,  148,  152, 
168,  190,  198,  194,  213,  222,  230,  238, 
264,  267,  286,  825,  829,  336,  338,  839, 
846,  857,  875,  422,  427,  488,  445,  454, 
461,  463,  466,  475,  516,  517,  524,  534, 
537,  549,  551,  556. 

,  letters  patent  of,  48,  49,  61,  62,84, 

108,  186,  137,  140,  149,  153,  155-157, 
159  160.  162-165,  167,  168,  192,  200, 
229,  230,  286-240,  242-244,  246,  247, 
285,  299,  806,  8U8,  809,  312,  329,  330, 
346,  875,  878,  393,  397-399,  403,  40&- 
407,  459,  463-465,  472,  482,  485,  488, 
494,  495,  497,  531,  532,  538,  539,  556- 
558. 

,  charters    of,   56,   61,    78,   84,  109, 

186,  139,  145,  150,  152,  153,  155-162, 
164-168,  170,  171,  189,  190,  218,  228, 
229,  285-252,299,  305-809,811-313, 
840,  342,  892,  898,  896-400,  403-409, 
427,  482,  494,  495,  497-499,  523,  588, 
557,  558. 

,  letters  close  of,  812. 

,  Great  Council  of,  218. 

,  Great  Boll  of,  57, 127,  522. 


C)2i 


GENERAL  INDEX. 


Edward  IV.     See  King,  the. 

Edward,  eiirl  of  March,  afterwards  Edward 

IV,  46,  51,  94,  112,  121,  129. 
Edward,  prince  of  Wales,  dake  of  Cornwall, 

earl  of  Chester,  eldest  son  of  Edward 

III.,  7,  346,  397,  463. 

,  letiers  patent  of,  168,  236,  241. 

)  second  duke  of  York,  326. 

,  prince  of  Wales  and  duke  of  Corn- 
wall, son  of  Henry  VI.  34,  82,  178. 
Edward,  John,  255. 
,  Thomas,  565. 

Edwinstowe,  Edencstowe   [co.  Nottingham], 
140,  226. 

Edy,  Thomas,  2. 

Edjlkyn,  Henry,  491. 

Edynburgh.     See  Edinborgh. 

Edyndon.     See  Edington. 

Edyngton,  William  de,  bishop  of  Winchester 

[1346-66].  252,  312. 
Effingham,  co.  Surrey,  545. 
Efford,  CO.  Cornwall,  372. 

Egeblaunch,  Peter  de,   bishop  of  Hereford 
[1240-1268],  408. 

Eggremont,    William,    parson    of  GDsforth, 
479. 

Egham,  12.  ; 

,  CO.  Surrey,  206. 

Egilton.     See  Egleton. 

Egle,  CO.  Sussex,  88,  464,  548. 

Egleshale.     See  Eccleshall. 

Egleton,  Egilton,  co.  llutland,  8. 

Egremont,  co.  Cumberland,  434. 

Egulleswall.    See  Eccleswell. 

Ekels,  John,  316. 

Ekeryng.     See  Eakring. 

Elake,  co.  Devon,  372. 

Eland,  William,  102,  134,  206,  226,  231,  281, 
349,  492,  576. 

Elderbek,  Robert,  255. 

Eldersfield,  260. 

Eldron  [co.  Middlesex] ,  hundred  of,  32. 

Elections,  ecclesiastical,  licences  for,  11,  90, 
137,  182,  189,  210,  220,  224,  285,  290, 
299,  327,  328,  332-334,  342,  859,  380, 
386,  387,  448,  457,  517,  550. 

, ,  royal  assent  given  to,  11,  180, 

185.  194,  208,  214,  219,  266,285,  300, 
327,  331,  334,  343,  361,  486,  523,  524, 
534. 

Elerky,  co.  Cornwall,  225,  227 

Elham,  co.  Kent,  330. 

Elham,  Henry,  56. 

Elinbrigge,  John,  573. 

,  Richard,  573. 

Elingham,  John,  478. 

Elington.     See  Ellington. 

Elizabeth,  the  king's  consort,  queen  of  Eng- 
land, 421,442,  444,  469,  483,  485,  495, 
516,  519,  533,  537,  543,  547. 

,  grants  to,  430,  433,  445,  463,  464, 

480,  525. 

,  the  princess,  519. 


Slkington,  co.  Lincoln,  486. 

,  [co.  Lincoln],  1. 

EUerby  in  Whitbystrand,  co.  York,  818. 
SUerby,  Adam,  918. 
Ellerker,  co.  York,  413. 
EUerton,  co.  Cumberland,  540. 

,  CO.  York,  60. 

EUesmere,  Ellismere,  Edward,  8,  270,  479. 
EUingham.  Elyngham,  oo.  Southampton,  73. 

>  CO.  Northumberland,  118,  199,  340. 

Ellington,  Elington,  Elyugton,  co.  Northom- 

berland,  lis,  468. 
Ellismere.    See  EUesmere. 
EUyngham,  William,  4. 
Ellowe.    See  Belleau. 
Elme,  Helme,  co.  Cambridge,  317. 

Elmebrigge,  Elmebrugge,    Elmeruge,    John, 

423,  451,  489. 
Ehneden,  William,  335. 
Elmham,  North,  co.  Norfolk,  318. 
Elmham,  Elymham,  Robert,  28,  31. 

,  John,  prior  of  Holy  Trinity,  Lenton, 

22. 

Elmley,  eo.  Worcester,  296. 

Elmy,  William,  5. 

Elmystre,  co.  Gloucester,  322. 

Elnestowe.    See  Elstow. 

Elom,  John,  parson  of  Bulwell,  478. 

Elond.     See  Eland. 

Elreton,  Henry  de,  310. 

EUham,  co.  Lincoln,  195,  227,  844,  345. 

ElsthopC;  CO.  Durham,  294. 

Elstow,  Elnestowe,  co.  Bedford,  monastery  of 
St.  Mary  and  St.  Helen,  208,  224. 

,  Elizabeth  Hasylden,  abbess  of,  208, 

224. 

— >  Rose  Woldgrave,  abbess  of,  224. 

Eltham,  co.  Kent,  11, 16,  19,  43,  96, 110,  188, 
194,  382,  433,  448,  457,  520,  521. 

,  charters  dated  at,  286,  393,  398,  400. 

Elton,  charter  dated  at,  497. 

[co.  Derby],  31. 

Elton,  Edmund,  32. 

Eltonhede,  John,  130, 569. 

Elveden,  co.  Suffolk,  195,  415. 

Elveden,  Henry,  296. 

Elvet,  CO.  Caermarthen,  commote  of,  40. 

Elwyk,  Thomas,  221. 

Ely,  CO.  Cambridge,  46,  175,  320,  322,  324, 
374. 

,  diocese  of,  103,  488. 

,  bishop  of.     See    Arundell ;    Grey; 

Hotham  ;  Northwold ;  Rydel. 

,  Eustace,  bishop  of  [1198-1215],  260. 

,  Hervey,  bishop  of  [1109-1131],  407. 

,  Niarel,  bishop  of  [1188-1169],  407, 

494.  ^ 

,  prior  and  convent  of,  249,  397. 

,  John,  prior  of,  249,  897. 

Ely,  Richard  de,  bishop  of  Loudon  [1189- 
1199],  404. 


GENERAL  INDEX. 


G2o 


KljrDgham.    See  Elliogliani. 

EIjnghaiQ,  John,  191,  441. 

Elyngham,  *  is  maDer '  in  Rusbton,  co.  North- 
ampton, 481. 

Eljngebam.    See  Ellingham. 

Elyot,  William,  96. 

Elys,  John,  815,  412. 

,  Richard,  566. 

,  Thomas,  83,  67. 

,  WiUiam,874. 

Eljson,  John,  550. 

,  Robert,  550. 

Emblehope,  Emlopp,oo.  Northumberland,  841. 

EmeryngaU,  Thomas,  503. 

Emlopp.    See  Bmbl^ope. 

Emlyn  [eo.  Caermarthen],  114. 

Emma,  Hugh  son  of,  876. 

Emma,  Simon,  255. 

Empire,  the  Holj,  517. 

£nd«rbj,  John,  208. 

Enfeld.     See  Enyille. 

Englyssh,  Inglisah,  Yngljsth,  Richard,  852. 

...  ,  John,  442. 

Envill,  Enfeld,  co.  Stafford.  27r»,  381,  518. 

Enjngham.    See  Heven^ngbam. 

Eppeworth.     See  Bpworth. 

Eppleby,  Bpulbj,  oo.  York,  169. 

Epsom,  Ebbosham,  co.  Surrey,  255. 

Epnlby.     See  Eppleby. 

Epworth,  Eppeworth,  eo.  Lincoln,  484. 

,  prior  and  conyent  of,  155. 

Erbury,  eo.  Suffolk,  131. 

Ereall,  oo.  Salop,  448. 

Erdbury,  Erdebury,  St  Mary's,  co.  Warwick, 

William  Wodcok,  prior  of,  173. 
Erdyngton,  Thomas,  186,  300,  349,  362,  885, 

478,541,574. 

,  Jocosa  his  wife,  186,  362,  541. 

Erehlthc.     See  Erith. 

Eremne.     See  Yarmouth. 

Eresby,  co.  Lincoln,  490. 

Erewyn.    See  Inrine. 

Eighom,  CO.  Lancaster,  445,  461. 

Erghum,  Ralph,  bishop  of  Salisbury  [1377- 

88],  161. 

Erghus.     See  Arras. 

Erington,  William,  259. 

Eriome.     See  Eiy holme. 

Eriswell,  co.  Soffslk,  186,  195. 

Erith,  Erehithe,  eo.  Kent,  88,  131,  465,  548. 

Erland.     See  Ireland. 

Erie,  Erlee,  Thomas,  33,  5U7. 

Erleshall,  co.  Suffolk,  197. 

Erlesman,  Henry,  504. 

Erleswode  [co.  Northampton],  389. 

Ernele,  Emeley,  John,  205,  280,  429, 493, 574. 

William,  443,  528. 

Emesby.    See  Arnesby. 
Emyngfeld,  eo.  Cambridge,  169. 
Eroystre  [co.  Salop],  41. 

u    86914. 


Erpingham,  Erpyngham,  co.    Norfolk,    179' 

355. 
Ersham,  co.  Norfolk,  5. 
Erthecote.     See  Earthcott. 
Eryholme,  Eriome,  co.  York,  169. 
Eryngton,  William,  547. 
Escardeburgh.    See  Scarborough. 
Esooker.     See  Coker. 
Escot,  Geoffrey  de,  500. 
Eecote,  co.  Warwick,  490. 
£sk  river,  co.  Cumberland,  434. 
Eskdale,  Asshdale,  co.  Cumberland,  87. 
Esker,  Eskyr,  co.  Dublin,  26,  329,  340. 
Eslington,   Estlington,    co.    Northumberland, 

269. 
Eslyng.     See  Eastling. 
Esmond,  Thomas,  earl  of,  329. 
Essebi,  876. 

£88enden,  Isenden,  co.  Hertford,  413. 
Essex  county,  18,  19,  31,  33,  35,  44,  48,  64, 
88,92,99,  107,111,  124,127,131,133, 
139,  142,  143,  149,  168,  185,  189,  194, 
204,  213,  228,  277,  278,  294,  338,  347, 
868,  391,  395,  397,  436,  452,  472,  530. 

,  sheriff  of,  31,  194,  232,  378,452,  469, 

479,  480,  &30. 

Aiid  aee  Clay ;  Filol ;  Raynforth. 

,  escheator  in,  224,  290,  291,  388,  845. 

And  see  Baynard. 

,  outlawries  in,  8-5, 175,258,  255,  2.'>6, 

814,  819,  416,  507-509. 

,  subsidy  and  ulnage  of  cloth  in,  219. 

,  justices  of  the  peace  in,  282. 

,  commissions  of  the  peace  in,  564. 

,  earl  of.  ^See  Bourchier ;  Bohun  ;  FitK- 

Peter;  Mandeville. 

Essex,  Henry  de,  171. 

,  John,  287,  268. 

,  William,  24,  518,567. 

, ,  the  elder,  471. 

, ,  the  younger,  471. 

Esshenden.     See  Ashendon. 

Estbeches worth.     See  Betch worth. 

Estbeweley,  co.  Devon,  212. 

Estbury,  265. 

Estbnry,  John,  538. 

Estcantok.     See  Quantockshead. 

Estedon,  Roger,  417. 

Esterkell.    See  Keal. 

Esteryngton.     See  Torrington. 

Estgrewyche.     See  Greenwich. 

Esthakebourne.     See  Hagborno,  East. 

Estbamptonet.     See  Harapnet. 

Esthamstede.     See  Easthampsitead. 

Esthanyfeld.    See  Uanningfield. 

Esthenrlth.     See  Hendred. 

Eathorp,  co.  Wilts,  274. 
And  $ee  Easthorpe. 

Estlington.     See  Es]!n<;tnn. 

Estmene.    See  Meon,  Ka«t. 

R  R 


6  26 


GENERAL  INDEX 


FiStoii,  CO.  Devon,  372. 

Estonhalle.     See  Eastoii  Hull. 

Estonhous,  co.  Devon,  16. 

Estraimemere.     See  Cranmore. 

Eature.     See  East  Stoar. 

Estwode.     See  Eastwood. 

Estwrotham.    See  Wretham. 

Estwykke,  William,  parson  of  Runcton,  Hard- 
wick  and  Setchy,  135. 

Estyngton,  Thomas,  283,  284,  3C3-365,  368. 

Esyngwold,  John,  509. 

Ethel  — .    See  Athel  — . 

Ethorn.    See  Eathome. 

Ethron,  co.  Cornwall,  287. 

Etloe,  Ettelowe,  co.  Gloucester,  1C9,  533. 

Eton  bj  Windsor,  co.  Buckingham,  446. 

,  college  of,  73,  139,  196,  446. 

, ,  William  Westburj,  provost  of, 

78. 

by  Rosse,  co.  Hereford,  77. 

Tregoys,  co.  Hereford,  372. 

Eton,  John,  324. 

,  Matilda,  192. 

,  Nicholas,  98,570. 

And  gee  Eyton. 
Ettelowe.    See  Etloe. 
Etton,  Thomas,  31. 
Eu,  Ewe,  lord  of,  413. 

And  see  Bourchier. 

Eore,  Henry,  39. 

,  Robert,  89. 

,  William,  knight,  39. 

, ,  clerk,  39. 

Eustace,  son  of  king  Stephen,  402. 

,  William,  25,  552,  553. 

Euston.     See  Yeanston. 

Euston,  WiUiam,  194,  266. 

Evan  ap  William  ap  Evan  ap  Cradok,  81. 

Everard,  William,  172. 

Everdon,  co.  Northampton,  alien  priory  of,  73. 

Everdon,  John,    prebendary    of    St.     Mary, 
Leicester,  13. 

,  Thomas,  550,  572,  575. 

Everesle,  Walter  dc,  62. 

Everley,  Richard,  501. 

Everton,  co.  Huntingdon,  254. 

Everyngham,  Thomas,  of  Sheffield,  413,  420. 

,    ,  of  York,  413,  420. 

Margaret,  413,  420. 

Evesham,  co.  Worcester,  331,  415. 

,  charter  dated  at,  165. 

,  battle  of,  463. 

,  abbey  of,  9,  433. 

,^ ,  abbot  and  convent  of,  433. 

,  Richard  Penbroke,  abbot  of,  9. 

,  Richard,  abbot  of,  433. 

,  John  Wykewon,  abbot  of,  9. 

Evington,  Evyngton,  William,  25,  122,  327. 

Evottes,  Henry,  490. 

Evyas,  in  South  Wales,  526. 

Evyngton.     See  Erington. 


'  Ewell,  121. 

,  CO.  Surrey,  235,  518. 

Ewelme,  John,  101. 
Ewen,  Richard,  191. 
Ewhurst,  CO.  Surrey,  179. 

,  Iwerst,  CO.  Sussex,  353. 

Ewias  Lacy,  co.  Hereford,  218,  372. 
Exchange.     See  Coinage. 

Exchequer,  23,  33,  34,  38,  45,  49,  52,  55-57, 
59,  71,  79,  82,  93,  95,  96,  106-108,  111, 
127-129,  H2,  148,  151,  161,  168,  170, 
180,  181,  184,  191,  192,  193,  195,  198, 
199,  200,  215,  217,  219,  222,  223,  224, 
229,  250,  267,  268,  275,  286,  290,  299, 
322,  325,  329,  342,  353,  358,  373,  374, 
382,  383,  384,  423,  427,  437,  453,  457, 
459,  472,  479,  500,  524,  525,  534, 
537. 

,  chancellor  of.     See  Witham. 

,   treasurer  of.     See  Bourchier ;  Hun- 

gerford ;  Tip  toil ;  Wyderille ;  Blounc. 

,  treasurer  and  barons  of,  81,  184, 159, 

275,  277,  373,  383,  390,  421,  446. 

,  chief  baron  of,  541. 

And  tee  Arderne ;  Illyng worth. 

,  barons  of,  26,   159,  326,  436,  475, 

541. 

And  see  Rouclyff ;  Holme ;  Ingoldesby. 

treasurer  and  chamberlains  of ,  49, 27 1 , 

422. 

,  chamberlains  of,  460. 

,  roll  of,  117, 

,  remembrancer  of,  24. 

,  receipt  of,  7,10,  11,  18,  22-24,  61, 

63,  71,  82, 109,  113,  125,  170,  208,  209, 
220,  260,  261,  263,  273,  277,  324,  345, 
378,  421,  422,  438,  442,  465,  470,472, 
483,  513,  516,  520,  523,  524. 

, ,  ushers  of,  460, 

,  messengers  of,  10,  24,  125. 

,  pesuge  of  money  in,  23. 

,  marshalship  of,  214. 

,  marshal  of.     See  Suthwel! . 

Exe  river,  70,  122,  477. 

Exemptions  from  juries,  etc.  42,  82,  109,  194, 
213,  227,  330,  383,  518,  531. 

from  attendance  in   Parliament,   72, 

115,  213,  325,  341,  358,  374. 

Exeter,  co.  Devon,  7,  22,  33,  35,  70,  101, 102, 
146,  147,  185,  232,  255,  275,  343,  372, 
470,  491,  506,  543. 

,  citizens  of,  400. 

,  mayor,  bailiffs,  and  commonalty  of 

146,  147,  275. 

,  mayor  of.     See  Duke  ;  Kelly. 

,  diocese  of,  80,  260,  460. 

,  bishopric  of,  455. 

,  bishop  of,  273. 

And  see  Neville ;  Bothe ;  Warwest. 

,  archdeaconry  of,  80. 

,  cathedral  of  St.  Peter,  275. 

, dean  and  chapter  of,  146,  147. 

, ,  dean  of.     See  Webber. 


.,  duke  of.     See  Holland. 


GENEEAL  IJSDEX. 


627 


Extter,  charter  dated  at,  555. 

port  of,  12,  20,  75,  129,  137. 

,  mistery  of  tailors  of,  543. 

fee  of  St.  Sidnell,  UC>,  U7. 

,  fee  of  St.  Stephen,  275. 

»  St.  Statmola  without  the  east  gate  of, 

,  priory  of  St.  James  hy,  74. 

hospital  of  St.  John,  prior  of,  147. 

Exilond,  co.  Devon,  122,  315,  477. 

Exminster,  Exmynstre,  co.  Devon,  85,  148, 
424. 

hundred  of,  85,  148,  424. 

Ezmoor,   Exmore,  co.  Devon,  forest  of,  13. 
131. 

Exmynstre.     See  Exminster. 

Exton,  CO.  Somerset,  226,  286,  366,  454. 

>  CO.  Sout^mpton  1 . 

Exton,  Richard,  537. 

Eyham,  John,  326. 

Eydon  Moonte.     See  Heydon  Mount. 

Eye,  CO.  Suffolk,  1. 

»  Thomas  Camhrigge,  prior  of,  411. 

Eyehale  (?  HighaU),  289. 

Eyeton.     See  Eyton. 

Eyleston,  John,  380,  467. 

Eyneho.     See  Aynho. 

Eynesbury,  co.  Huntingdon,  486. 

Eynesford,  co.  Kent,  259,  521 . 

Eynaham,  co.  Oxford,  418,  510. 

Eyre,  Simon,  mayor  of  London,  287,  469. 

,  Thomas,  287,  359,  537. 

/William,  814,  816. 

Eyres,  John,  554. 
Eythome,  co.  Kent,  88,  464,  648. 
Eythorpe,  Hethorpe,  co.  Buckingham,  551. 
Eyton,  John,  316,  824. 

,  Balph,  816. 

Eytoo,  Eton,  Eyeton,  Roger,  57,  90. 
I ,  sheriff  of  Salop,  492,  518. 


F. 


Facet,  Richard,  348. 

Fadmoor,  co.  York,  377. 

^ftgge»  — ,  347. 

^a^ergill,  Fagyrgyll,  co.  York,  169. 

Fairfax,  Fairefaz,  Fayrefaz,  Guy,  30,  35, 102, 
206,  258,  288,  455,  512,  521,  628,  538, 
577.  ' 

,  William,  2. 

>  Katharine  his  wife,  2. 

Fakenham  by  Hempton,  co.  Norfolk,  508. 
Fakenhamdam  [co.  Norfolk],  103. 
Fakenham  Aspis,  co.  Suffolk,  547. 
Fakenham,  William  de,  160. 
Fklaise,  France,  chnrters  <lated  at,  161,  260. 


I    Falcous,  11,45,  49. 

[    Faldingworth,  co.  Lincoln,  151,  371. 

Fallani,   William,  proctor  of   '  Goddishous,' 
(\imbritlgo,  217. 

Fallerun,  James,  289. 

Falwcsley.    See  Faw&ley. 

Fambridge,  North,   Norfambrigge,  co.  Essex « 
45. 

Farchaui,  Fanim,  co.  Southampton,  504. 

Fareswell,  co.  Norfolk,  179,  .355. 

Faringdon,  co.  Berks,  487. 

Farlam,  co.  Cumberland,  140,  534. 

Farleigh.  Monkton  Farleigh,  co.  Wilts,  priory 
of,  460. 

,  John  Brugge,  prior  of,  400. 

,  John  Stratton,  prior  of,  460. 

Farlton,  CO.  Westmoreland,  169. 
Farman,  John,  84. 

Farmborough,  Fermburgh,  co.  Somerset,  75. 
Famborough,  co.  Southampton,  504. 

Fame  Island,  Farneland  by  Banmburgh,  co. 

Northumberland,  monks  of,  393. 
Famham,  487. 

,  CO.  Buckingham,  268,  315. 

,  CO.  Essex,  387. 

Famworth,  Fameworth,  co.  Lancaster,  84. 
Faroe,  Ferrey,  island  of,  469. 

Farrington  Goumay,  Faryngdon  Gurney,  co. 
Somerset,  23,  362. 

Farthinghoe,  Farvyngho,  co.  Northampton, 
826. 

Farvyngho.     See  Farthinghoe. 

Faryngdon  Gumey.     See  Farrington  Gour- 
nay. 

Eastern,  CO.  Wilts,  131. 

Fastolf,  John,  45,  96,  509,  510. 

Fatehare,  Robert,  452. 

Faucomberge,  Eustace  de,  bishop  of  London, 
267.  ' 

,  William  de,  34. 

Fancombregge,  Joan,  countess  of  Kent,  277. 
,  Roger,  468. 

And  see  Neville. 
Faaconer,  Edmund,  97, 144. 
,  Alice  his  wife,  97,  144. 

And  see  Fawconer. 
Faukeham.    See  Fawkham. 
Faukes,  Master    John,    prebendary    of    St. 

Stephen's,  Westminster,  469. 
Faukys,  John,  501. 
Faunhope,  lord  of.     See  Cornwall. 
Faunt,  Nicholas,  303. 
Faux,  William,  199,  220. 
Farersham,  co.  Kent,  830, 346,  355. 
, ,  mayor  of,  302. 

And  see  Mar^. 

,  monastery  of  St.  Saviour,  121. 

* ,  abbot  and  convent  of,  400, 

» ,  Walter,  abbot  of,  400. 

Fawconer,  William,  66. 

Ami  see  Fauconer. 


>. 


R  R  2 


628 


GENERAL  INDEX. 


Fawdon,  Fowdon,  co.  Northumberland,  199. 

Fawdon  on  Breamish,  Fawdon  on  Brymnjshe, 
CO.  Northumberland,  340. 

Fawkham,  Faukeham,  co.  Kent,  225. 

Fawsley,  Falweslej,  co.  Northampton,   268, 
430,  445,  480 

,  hundred  of,  481. 

Fuxtleet,  charter  dated  at,  168. 

Faxton,  co.  Northampton,  316,  468. 

Faynt,  John,  344. 

Fayreford,  Alexander,  257. 

Fayretwhayte  Parke,  co.  Lancaster,  445,  461. 

Fecamp,  in  Normandy,  alien  abbey  of,  144, 
145,216. 

,  abbot  and  convent  of,  97,  244. 

,  W.  abbot  of.  244. 

Feccaham.     See  Feckenham. 

Feckenham,  Feccaham,  Fekeuham,  co.  Wor- 
cester, 45,  56,  271, 445,  482. 

,  forest  of,  189,  357,  383,  445,  482. 

,  charters  dated  at,  159,  239,  245. 

Feelde,  John,  515. 

Feirwode,  Benedict,  491. 

Fekenham.     See  Feckenham. 

Felawe,   Fella wt*,  Felowe,   Kichard,    13,    33, 
348. 

Feld,  William,  172. 

Felde,  Richard,  26.  130, 176,  273. 

Feldyng,  Geoffrey,  257,  319,  418,  602,  509. 

Felowe,  John,  380. 

And  see  Felawe. 

Felstead,  Felstede,  co.  Essex,  57,  144,  177. 

Felthorpc,  Folthorpe,  co.  Norfolk,  172,  510. 

Felton,  John  259,  547. 

Fen,  77. 

Feucote,  Fennecotes,  co.  York,  1G9. 

Fendraj^ton.     See  Drayton. 

Fendyk,  Ilichard,  35,  528,  56G. 

Fenge,  Hugh,  4. 

Fenhallc  iu  Sutton,  co.  Suffolk,  180. 

Feniton,  Fyneton,  co.  Devon,  319. 

Fenne,  Henry,  75,  128. 

,Hugh,  141,421,  518. 

,  Robert,  232,261,570. 

Fenne,  Thomas,  471. 

Fennel's   Grove,   Fyuelsgrove,   co.  Bucking- 
ham, 121. 

Fennjmyle,  co.  Devon,  54. 

Fenny  Sutton,  co.  Wilts,  4. 

Fen  Ottery,  Fenotery,  co.  Devon,  459. 

Fen  Stanton,  CO.  Huntiogdon,  212. 

Fenton  [co.  Northumberland],  388. 

And  see  Venton. 
Fenton,  John,  68, 

Fen  wick  [co.  Northumberland],  393. 
Fenys,  B'eynes,  Richard,  140, 444,  534. 

, ,  of  Dacre,  40,  65,  99,  206,  346, 

429,  488,  489,  493,  529,  566,  567,  573, 
57-1. 

,  Joan,  his  wife,  40,  140,  534. 

,  William,  of  Say,  25,  118,  491. 


Fenys,  William,  lord  Say  of  Seale,  125,  133, 

547,  566,  572. 
Ferautes,  co.  Devon,  227,  359,  872. 

Fereby,  Feerby,  Feryby,  John,  57,  125,  137, 

189,  208,  224,  281,  277,  303,  357,  419. 

487,531. 
, ,  escheator  in  the  county  of  York, 

848. 

And  tee  Feriby. 

Ftresby.     See  Firsby. 

Feriby,  Adam,  463. 

,  Robert,  parson  of  Castle  Rising,  180. 

Fermbuigh.    See  Farmborougfa. 

Ferour,  David,  254. 

Ferrariis.     See  Ferrers. 

Ferre,  Guy,  810. 

, ,  the  younger,  59. 

FerrerH,  dc  Ferrariis,  Lettice,  58. 

,  Amice  de,  countess  of  Devon  and  ladj 

of  the  Isle,  149. 

,  Henry,  78. 

,  Elizabeth,  549. 

,  Thomas,  349,  459,  489,  491,549,  574. 

And  see  Devereux. 
Ferrey.     See  Faroe. 
Ferriby,  Feryby,  co.  York,  abbey  of,  454. 

North,  237. 

Ferronr,  Geoffrey,  112,  137. 

,  Robert,  91. 

,  William,  292. 

Fetcbam,  co.  Surrey,  545. 

Feryby.     See  Ferriby. 

Fetherston,  William,  36. 204,  302. 

Fetyplace,  Walter,  67,572. 

, mavor  of  Southampton,  301, 

804. 
Feversham.     See  Faversham. 
Fevre,  Walter  le,  500. 
Fevyn,  Henry,  68, 201. 
Feynes.     See  Fenys. 
Field  Dalling,  Fildallyng,  co.  Norfolk,  priory 

of,  16*1. 
Ficnnes,  Eustace  de,  404. 
Filby,  CO.  Norfolk,  141. 
Fildallyng.     5ee  Field  Dalling. 
Fildjng,  William,  258. 
Filingley,  Henry,  75. 
Fillougley,    Fylonglay,    co.    W^arwick,    440, 

490. 
Filoll,  Fyloll,  John.  568. 
Filol,  John,  sheriff  of  Essex  and  Hertford, 

127. 
Finchale,  co.  Durham,  monks  of,  393. 
Finchampstead,  fynchamstede   [co.   Berks], 

51,53. 
Finchingfield,  Fynchyngfeld,    co.   E.ssex,    4, 

449. 
Fine  Roll,  85. 

Fingrith,  Fyngrith,  co.  Essex,  193,  197. 
Finmark,  378. 

Finmere,  Fynner,  co.  Oxford,  131. 
Fimiynglon.     See  Fremyngton. 


GENERAL  INDEX. 


629 


Fireby,  Fercsby  by  Bray  toft,  co.  Lincoln, 
871. 

Firvill,  Kicbard,  524. 

,  Agnes  bis  wife,  524. 

Fisbbonnie,  Fysshboroe,  oo.  Sussex,  145. 
Fisherton    Anger,   Fyssberton    Ancber,    co. 
Wilts,  506. 

Fishwick,  Fissbwyke,  Fysswyke,  co.  Lancas- 
ter, 140,  534. 

Fits,  Jobn,  514. 

FitiAdam,  Maurice,  second  cbamberlain  of 
the  excbequer  of  Ireland,  105, 178, 

FitzAlan,  William,  earl  of  Arandel,  15,  31, 37, 
98,  132,  201,  205,  279,  303,  304,  346, 
391,  444,  488,  489,  512,  529,  533, 
547,  564,  570,  571,  574,  575. 

,  Joan,  countess  of  Arundel,  228. 

FitzElys,  Robert,  2^0. 

FitsEustace,  Boland,  117. 

, lord  of  Portlester,  178,  201. 

, ,  deputy  lieutenant  of  Ireland, 

185,  272. 

,  ,  treasurer  of  Ireland,  84. 

FitsGerald,  Warin,  494. 

FitsHany,  Bobert,  clerk  of  tbe  common 
pleas  of  tbe  Excbequer  of  Ireland, 
181. 

,  Tbomas,  45,  77,372. 

Fitzberbert,  Jobn,  422. 

,Nicbola8,  31,  102,  185,  304,562. 

,  Robert,  206. 

FitzHugb,  Henry,  of  Fitz  Hngb,  580, 562,  575, 
576. 

, lord  of  Ravenswath,  97,  144. 

Fitz  James,  Jobn,  99,  134,  203,  231,  865, 
868,571. 

, ,  the  elder,  280. 

FitzJoceline,  Reginald,  bisbop  of  Batb  and 
WeUs  [1174-1191],  378,  394. 

FitzJohn,  Robert,  abbot  of  Lillesbull,  834. 

Tbomas,  234. 

,  William,  473. 

,  Joan  his  wife,  473. 

FitzPamel,  Robert,  earl  of  Leicester,  463. 

FitzPeter,  Geoffrey,  earl  of  Essex,  894. 

.charter of,  60. 

Fitzwarren.     See  Bourcbier. 

Fitzwilliam,  Edmund,  102,  479,  577. 

,  Katharine,  335. 

,  John,  121,277. 

,  Nicholas,  121. 

Richard,  46,  59,  479,  577. 

,  Tbomas,  the  younger,  205,  467,  567. 

, parson    of   Sprotbrougb,    co. 

York,  411. 

William,  411. 

Flambard,  Ranulpb,  bisbop  of  Durham  [1099- 

1128],  392. 
Flamborough,  co.  York,  348. 

And  see  Constable. 
Flanders,  187,  517. 
Flatewvke.     See  Flitwick. 


Flazhale,  Nicholas,  101. 

Flaxmere,  John,  386. 

Flaymburgh.     See  Fliimborough. 

Fleccber,  Thomas,  206. 

Fleet  prison,  1,  9,  49,  57,  91,  172,  181,  211, 
216,  253,  284,  295,  297,  313,  814,  381, 
388,  410,  489,  469,  470,  474,  476,  485, 
501,  512,  513,  519,  526,  531,  537,  544. 

Fleethara,  Fletham,  co.  York,  169. 
Flegge,  John,  14,  45. 

, ,  escheator    in   the   counties    of 

liedford  and  Buckingham,  375. 

,  Agatha  his  wife,  45. 

Flemantell.     See  Freemantle. 

Flemmyug,  Flemyng,  John,  370,  516. 

,  Richard,  297. 

Fletcher,  Henry,  419. 

,  John,  190. 

Flete,  CO.  Kent,  193,  197,  292. 

And  see  Fleet. 

Flete,  Nicholaji,  540. 

,  Robert,  314. 

Flete  Damarle,  Damerell  [parish  of  IIol- 
beton],  CO.  Devon,  7,  10,  104. 

Flette,  William,  48. 

Fleury,  St.  Benedict  on  the  Ley  re,  in  France, 
monasteiy  of,  161. 

Flewse,  Henry,  265. 

Flexbury,  co.  Cornwall,  174. 

Flexmer,  John,  31. 

Fleynburgh.     See  Flamborough. 

Flint,  charter  dated  at,  400. 

Flint  county,  69,  91,  192,  429. 
,  ,  auditors  in  56. 

Flitwick,  Flatewyke,  Flytwyke,  co.  Bedford, 
831,  508. 

Flockthoipe,  Flokkethorpe,  co.  Norfolk,  443. 

Floctons,  John,  39. 

Flode,  John,  491. 

Flore,  Thomas,  413,570. 

Florence,  Florentines,  270,  276,  381,  390, 
518. 

Flory,  Jobn,  293,  475. 
Flotby.     See  Fulletby. 
Floure,  Simon  le,  500. 

,  Thomas,  34 

,  WiUiam,  543. 

Fiynt,  William,  290. 
Flynthard,  Robert,  547. 
Fobbyng,  co.  Essex,  6. 

Foche,  John,  parson  of  St.  Margaret, 
Briggestrete,  London,  505. 

Fodryngbay.     See  Fothcringhay. 

Fogge,  John,  12,  13,20,  48,  52,  63,  76,   90, 

102,  121,  132,  224,  229,  281,  301,  346, 

458,  465,  530, 566. 
, ,  treasurer  of  the  household,  59,    . 

187,  191,  193,  215,  217,  292,  325,  347, 

375,  442,  453,  519. 

,  ,  keeper  of  the  rolls  of  tbe  Com- 
mon Bench,  11. 

Alice  his  wife,  76,  325. 


630 


GENERAL  INDEX. 


Yoffge,  John,  the  younger,  429. 

Folbourne.     .SVe  Fulbom. 

Folbary,  Fulbery,  Robert,  S48,  349,569. 

Folde,  John,  64. 

Foleteby.     See  Fulletby. 

Folgeham,  Thoina«,  562. 

Foil  Johan.     See  Folly  John. 

FolkeHtone,  Fuljtton,  co.,  Kent,  476,  509. 

,  hnmlred  of,  544. 

,  prior  of,  550. 

Folliin|(ham,  Fo)kvn|(hani,  co.  Lincoln,  108, 
354. 

Folle,  CO.  Devon,  212,  872. 

Folly  John,  FoH  Joluin,  co.  Berks,  90. 

Folffham.     See  Foulsham. 

Folthorpc.     See  Felthorpe. 

Font^rrault,  order  of,  313. 

,  abbess  of,  446. 

,  Mabel,  abbess  of,  446. 

Fooke,  John,  315. 

Forbour,  Thomas,  504. 

Forcett,  Forset,  co.  York,  169. 

Ford,  CO.  Buckingham,  121. 

Forde,  co.  Salop,  481. 

,  [co.  Northumberland],  29. 

And  see  Heron. 

Forde,  Henry  att  63. 

,  Juliana  his  wife,  63. 

,  John  atte,  147. 

,  Richard,  429,  493,  518. 

,  Mercy  his  wife,  518. 

,  Thomas,  204. 

,  William,  33. 

Fordham,  co.  Cambridge,  874. 

Fordhani,  Thomas,  257. 

Fordingbridge,    Fordyngbrigge,    co.    South- 
ampton, 77,  504, 507. 

Fordinf  ton,  Fordyngton,  co.  Dorset,  60, 198. 

Fordyngbrig  .e.     See  Fordingbridge. 

Forest,  145,  197. 

Atid  see  Alisholt;  Bere  ;  Berne wode; 
Blackmore  ;  Bukholt  ;  Buigh ; 
Caerleon  ;  Cannock  ;  Ceih  Bryn  ; 
Chippenham  ;  Chute ;  Clarendon  ; 
Clee  ;  Coydrath  ;  Dartmoor ;  Dean ; 
Kxmoor ;  Feckenham  ;  Fylwode  } 
Galtresse ;  Gillingham ;  Grovele 
Inglewood ;  Kinfare ;  Kingswood 
Jjcthewode ;  Malierstang ;  Melchuyt 
Melksham ;  Mendip ;  Neroehe 
New  Forest ;  Pcwsham ;  Forehester 
Purbeck ;  Rimside  ;  Rockingham 
Rutland ;  Salcy ;  Sapley  ;  Saver- 
nake ;  Selwood  ;  Sherwood ;  Trent ; 
Usk;  Wales;  Waltham;  Wey- 
bridge;  Whittlewood ;  Windsor; 
Wolmer;  Wychwood. 

Forest,  Richard,  198. 

,  Thomas,  188. 

Foreste  Reynold,  in  Wales,  268. 

Forgatc,  Foriecta  Monachorum,  co.  Salop,  92. 

Forgery  of  letters  patent,  527. 

Forloff,  Nicholas,  S78. 


Forman,  Robert,  461). 

Fomcett,  Fomaete,  oo.  Norfolk,  335. 

Forset     See  Forcett 

Forsham  Roger  de,  462. 

Forster,  Geoffrey,  3. 

,  Humphrey,  278,  368,559. 

,  John,  515,  565. 

Richard,  281,  432,  433,  504. 

Robert,  49. 

,  Simon,  317. 

Thomas,  88 

,  William,  4.'>0. 

, ,  mayor  of  Dartmouth,  33. 

Forsterfeld,  co.  Westmoreland,  169. 
Forsteyn,  Robert,  49. 
Forsthwayte.    .See  Fnsethwaite. 
Fortescu,  John,  470. 

, ,  justice  of  the  King's  Bench,  418. 

,  John,  esquire,  212,  335,  360. 

, ,  knight,  183, 192,  212,  363-366, 

868,  440,  517,  548. 

Forthe,  Henry,  269,  823. 

,  John,  the  elder,  348. 

And  see  Heron. 

Fortho,  William,  545. 

,  Alice,  545. 

Fortibus,  Isabel  de,  countess  of  Albemarle 
and  Devon,  and  lady  of  the  Isle, 
charters  of,  148,  149,  406,  557. 

Forton,  co.  Stafford,  112,  298,  485. 

Fosbroke,  WiUiam,  490. 

Fowdykc,  co.  Lincoln,  169. 

Fosse  by  York,  co.  York,  187,  857. 

Foster,  Richard,  148,  149. 

,  Robert,  177. 

Foston,  CO.  Leicester,  199,  454. 

Foston,  Richard,  parson  of  Blatherwyke,  315. 

Fotheringhay,  Fodrynghay,  co.  Northampton, 
131,298,389. 

,  coil^e  of,  192,  216,  431,  589. 

....,  ,  Thomas   Buxhale,  master  of, 

192,  216,  431,  589. 

,  letters  patent  dated  at,  146,  199. 

Fong^res,  in  Brittany,  abbot  of,  63. 

,  abbot  and  convent  of,  63. 

Foulbourne.     See  Fulborn. 

Foulden,  co.  Norfolk,  184. 

Foulness,  Fouleness,  Folncsse,  Fullenesse, 
CO.  Essex,  104,  145,  486,  o33. 

Foulsham,  Folsham,  co.  Norfolk,  211. 

Fountains,  co.  York,  John,  abbot  oF,  71. 

Foure,  co.  West  Meath,  340. 

Foure,  Robert,  500. 

Fourmour,  John,  82.* 

Fournes.     See  F  unless. 

Fourues,  Christopher,  56,  106. 

And  see  Fumeys. 

Fowdon.    See  Fawdon. 

Foweler.     See  Fowler. 

Foweraker,  John,  410. 

Fowey,  CO.  Cornwall,  36,  204,  233,412,447, 
452,  483. 


GENERAL  INDEX. 


631 


Fowey,  port  of,  188,  269. 
Fowler,  John,  117. 

,  Bichard,  40,  48,  102,  118,  230,  301, 

452,  519»  521,  538,  553,  560. 

, ,  solicitor- general,  54. 

,  Thomaa,  28,  440,570. 

,  William,  64,  440,  560. 

Fowlostou.     See  Fulstow. 
Fox,  John,  65 

,  Katharine,  289. 

,  WiUiam,  414. 

Fox,  Foxe,  Roger,  98,  570. 
Foxcote,  CO.  Buckingham,  509. 
Foxearth,  Foxherd  Hall,  co.  Kssex,  72, 145. 
Foxherd.     See  Foxearth. 
Foxhunt,  CO.  Sussex,  88,  465,  548. 
Foxle,  John  de,  310,  522. 
Foxlydiate,  co.  Worcester,  357. 
Framland,  hundred    of,  co.   Leicester.   435, 
445,  480. 

Framlingham,  charter  dated  at,  160. 

,  letters  patent  dated  at,  81. 

Frampton,  co.  Lincoln,  126,  169. 

,  CO.  DorHPt,  alien  priory  of,  163. 

Fra    .     .     .     nrte,  John,  37 

France,  22,  30,  31,  33,  34,  36-38,  79,  81,  83, 

101,  HI,  156,  197,  208,  216,  219.  281, 

232,  259,  280,  292,  431. 

,  chancery  of,  79,  219. 

FranciB,  duke  of  Brittany,  450. 

Frank,  Thomas,  297,  301,  322. 

Franke,  John,  419. 

Frankeleyn,  William,  5. 

Frankelyn,  John,  217. 

Franketon,  co.  Wanvick,  531. 

Frankleyn,  Richard,  316. 

FranktOD,  Richard,  99. 

Frankvill,  co.   Salop,  hospital  of  St.  John 

Baptist  in,  295. 
Frary,  Thomas,  381. 

Fraternities,  licences  for  the  foundation  of, 
55,92,516,543. 

Frauuceys,  Fraunces,  Geoffrey,  328. 

,  Hugh,  5. 

, ,  parson  of  Brougham,  120. 

,  John,  81,414,  552. 

Robert,  175. 

,  Thomas,  562. 

Thomas,  prebendary  of  St.  Mary, 

Leicester,  13. 

,  William,  21 1,  473,  474,  609. 

Fray,  John,  10,  22,  135. 

Frayne,  .)ohn,  323. 

Frebody,  Henry,  489. 

Frceby,  Fretheby,  co.  Loiocslt  r,  182,  532. 

Freeniantle,     Flemanti'Il,      Kremantull,     co. 
Southampton,  24,  18,  522. 

,  charter  dated  at,  394. 

Freman,  Richard,  132. 

Robert,  508. 

Frerayngton,  co.  Devon,  7,  I'S  101. 


Fremyugton,  hundred  of,  10,  104. 
French  Roll,  90,  130. 
French,  Giles,  532. 
Frenshman,  Ralph,  490. 
Frenssh,  Alan,  326. 

Thomas,  411. 

,  Joan  his  wife,  411. 

Frcre,  John,  492. 

,  Robert,  16. 

Frereby,  Robert,  panon  of  Castle  Rising,  40. 
Fresdon,  Fresshedon,  co.  Wilts,  274. 
Freshwater,  Isle  of  Wight,  co.  Southampton, 

585. 
Fressheford,  co.  Somerset,  6. 
Freston.     See  Friebtou. 
Fretheby.     Sea  Freeby. 
Frethynden.     See  Frittenden. 
Frevile,  Richard,  89. 

,  Agnes  his  wife,  89. 

William,  560. 

Frevyle,  John,  304. 

Freyne,  Walter,  37. 

Friars  Minor.     See  Cambridge ;  Oxford. 

Friars  Preachers,  822,  349. 

prior  and  provincial  chapter  of,  192. 

And  see  Cambridge  ;  (yhihem  Langley  ; 
London  ;  Oxford  j  York. 

Friesland,  517. 

Frieston,  Freston,  co.  Lincoln,  227. 
Friis.     See  Fryse. 

Frisby,  Frysby  on  Wreke,  co.  Leicester,  319. 
Friskeney,  co.  Lincoln,  371. 
Fristhorpe,  co.  Lincoln,  371. 
Friteswell.     See  Fritwell. 
Frithnet,  fishery  of,  82. 
Frittenden,     Frethynden,     Frythenden,    co. 
Kent,  2,  3. 

Fritwell,  Friteswell,  co.  Oxford,  117,  484. 
Frog  nail,  Froggenhale,  Richard,  417. 
Froggenhale.     See  Frognall. 
Frome,  co.  Dorset,  443. 

,  CO.  Hereford,  450. 

in  Selwode,  co.  Somerset,  317. 

Frome,  Richard,  287. 
Frompton.     See  Frampton. 
Frowyk,  Henry,  4,  32, 667. 

, ,  mayor  of  London,  154. 

,  Thomas,  4,  417,  508,567. 

Fry,  William,  290. 

Fryer,  Elizabeth,  362. 

Fryse,  Friis,  Master  James,  188. 

, ,  the  king's  physician,  79,  270. 

Frysshe,  John,  30. 
Fryston,  Richard,  546. 
Frytheuden.     See  Frittenden. 
Fulbeck,  co.  Lincoln,  169,  517. 
Fulbery,  Robert,  558. 
Fulbery.     See  Folbary. 
Fulborn,  rolboume,  co.  (  ambridgc,  46,  87, 
117,  145,218,609. 


I 


032 


GtKKRAL  INDKX. 


Falbroke.     See  Fulbrook. 

Falbroke,  Anne,  414. 

Fulbrook,  Fulbroke,  co.  Warwick,  56,  80,  90, 

186,  189. 
Fulford,  CO.  Devon,  54,  227,  228,  859,  372. 
Fulford,  Baldwin,  33,  54,  64,  117,  192,  212, 

228,  349,  359,  372. 

,  Elizabeth  his  wife.  64,  372. 

,  Thomas,  372,  490. 

Fulham,  co.  Middlesex,  415,  435,  510. 

,  charterH  dated  at,  242,  244,  395. 

I'nlk,  Gilbert  son  of,  500. 

,  Robert  son  of  Robert  son  of,  342. 

Fullenesse.     See  Foulness. 
Fuller,  John,  507. 

,  Robert,  390,  535,  542,  543. 

Fulletby,  Flotby,  Foleteby,  co  Lincoln,  500. 

Fnlston.     See  Folkestone. 

Fulstow,  Fowlestou,  co.  Lincoln,  169. 

Fulihorp,  Thomas,  50,  265. 

Folwode,  CO.  Nottingham,  460. 

Folwode,  John,  436. 

Fnrmage,  John,  319. 

Furness,  Foumes,  492. 

,  abbot  and  convent  of  St.  Mary,  322. 

Fumeys,  Christopher,  152,  514. 

,  James,  202. 

And  see  Fourneya. 

Fnmyyall,  Thomas,  158. 

Fnrse,  John,  490. 

Furslegh,  co.  Devon,  227,  359,  372. 

Fusethwaite,  Forsthwayte,  co.  Westmoreland, 

169. 
Fust,  John,  429,  493, 574. 
Fuyst,  John,  528. 
FyloU.     See  Filoll. 
Folwode,  CO.  Somerset,  forest  of,  129. 
Fylyngley,  Henry,  46. 
Fynamour,  John,  206. 
Fynch,  Fynche,  John,  451. 

,  Vincent,  429,  493,  574. 

,  William,  429. 

Fyncham,  Fyncheam,  John,  66,  67,  135,  390, 

471,  580,  568. 

,  William,  546. 

Fynohamstede.     See  Finchampstead. 
Fynchyngf eld,  CO.  Cambridge,  169. 

And  see  Finchingfield. 
Fyndem,  Thomas,  77.  358,  489,  521. 
Fynelsgrove.    See  Fennel's  Grove. 
£^eton.    See  Feniton. 
Fyngrith.     See  Fingrith. 
Fynkell,  John,  255. 
Fynne,  Thomas,  194,  266. 
Fynner.     See  Finmere. 
Fynnon  a  Burrough,  co.  Monmouth,  425. 
Fysfih,  Alice,  342. 

,  Edmund,  381. 

,  Thomas,  414. 

Fysshbume.    See  Flshbouroe. 


Fyssher,  John,  181. 

,  Richard,  490. 

,  WiUiam,  419,  490,  522. 

,  Agnes  his  wife,  419. 

Fysswyke.     See  Fish  wick. 
Fyvyan,  Walter,  509. 


G. 


Gabias,  Joceus,  500. 

Gaboys,  Elias,  500. 

Gaddesden,  Gagdesden,    co.  Hertford,  7,   9, 
104. 

,  Great,  556. 

Gagdesden.    See  Gaddesden. 

Gain,  John,  492. 

Gainsborough,    Gaynesburgh,    co.    Lincoln, 
208. 

Gaislee.     See  Gazelee. 

Gaitford,  Richard,  102. 

Gale,  CO.  Lancaster,  445,  461. 

Gale,  John,  258. 

,  Thomas,  28,  233,  234,  412,  529. 

Galgey,  John,  438. 

Gallons   Boure,  by  Dartmouth,  co.   Devon, 
308.. 

Galowfeld  in  Totenham,  co.  Middlesex,  176. 
Gait,  Simon,  319. 

Galtresse,  co.  York,  forest  of,  118,  151,  335, 
477. 

Galway,  in  Ireland,  40,  355. 

,  sovereign  and  commonalty  of,  355, 

Galjon,  Richard,  505,  506. 

Gambon,  John,  317. 

,  Robert,  28. 

Game,  William,  500. 

Gamelle,  William,  vicar  of  Curdworth,  172. 

Gramlingay,  Gamelyngey , co.  Cambridge,  415. 

Gandavo.    See  Gaunt. 

Gannowe,  co.  Worcester,  112,  221,  297,  829. 

Gant,  Gilbert  de,  earl  of  Lincoln,  139. 

Ganter,  Abraham,  412. 

Garard,  Joan,  262. 

Garbot,  William,  174. 

Garde,  John  de,  304. 

Ghirdiner,  Simon,  418. 

G^rdyner,  John,  412. 

,  Thomas,  501. 

Grargrave,  William,  4,  5. 

Garieston.     See  Garristown. 

Garlond,  John,  509. 

; ,  Cristiana  his  wife,  509. 

Garnesej'.     See  Guernsey. 

Garnet.  GeoflFrey,  24. 

Richard,  125,358. 

,  Roger,  189. 

,  Thomas,  63,  539,  541,  546. 


GENERAL  INDEX. 


033 


Gamcthorp.     See  Garthorpe. 
Garney,  Thomas,  284. 
GarDon,  Master  Jame«,  417. 

,  Miehael,  318. 

Waiiam,570. 

Qarristown,  GariestOD  [oo.  Dablin],  466. 

Garter,  order  of,  190. 

Garter  King  of  Arms.     Sec  Smert. 

Garthe,  Thomas,  60. 

Grarthorpe,  Gamethorp,  CO.  Lincoln,  169. 

Garton,  co.  York,  39,  87,  458. 

Garway,  Geoffrey,  452. 

Gascoign,  Janicot,  36. 

Gascoigne,  William,  550. 

, ,  the  elder,  24. 

,  Robert,  577. 

Gascony,  Gascons,  36,  65,  119,  134,  276,  452. 
Gaseby,  John,  506. 

Gate,  Geoffrey,  31,  96,  230,  304,  492, 535,  572. 
, ,  lieatenant  of  the  Isle  of  Wight, 

37,  38,  96,  208,  424. 
gOYcmorof  CariKbrook  Castle, 

37,  38,  208. 
Gatehalle,  oo.  York,  343. 
Gatehouse,    Yatehous,  co.    Northumberland, 

841. 

Gates.    See  Eastergate. 
Gatesbury,   Cattesbnry    in    Braughing,    co. 
Hertford,  296,  356. 

Gatton,  446. 

Gratwardes,  co.  Cambridge,  77,  521. 
Gauge,  William,  503. 

Ganger,  appointment  of,  20,  51,  71,  288,  386, 
432.  514. 

Gaunt,  Gilbert  de,  242. 

Gaunt,  Gandavo,  John  of,  duke  of  Lancaster, 
earl  of  Richmond,  137,  162,  164. 

Gay,  Henry,  474. 

,  John,  488. 

,  Richard,  508. 

,  Thomas,  819,  345. 

, ,  the  elder,  258,    81,  509-511. 

Gaylard,  Peter  de,  49. 

Gaynesford,  John,  188. 

, ,  the  elder,  423,  522. 

....,  Anne  his  wife,  523. 

,  Nicholas,  21,  91,  93,  96,    123,   209, 

373.  423,  451,  484,  489,  507,  573. 

, ,  sheriff  of  Surrey  and  Sussex, 

32,  192. 

, vicar  of  Moreton,  co.  Essex, 

291. 

,  William,  138,  423,  538,573. 

Gaynesparke  in  They  don  Gamon,  co.  Essex, 
356. 

Gayton,  co.  Lincoln,  169. 

Gayton  le  Marsh,  co.  Lincoln,  264. 

Gaytolyff,  Thomas,  280. 

Gaselee,  Gaislee,  co.  Suffolk,  52. 

Gebons  in  Bumpstead,  co.  Essex,  197. 

Gebun,  John,  526. 


I 


I 


Geddingtou,  co.  Northampton,  430,  48),  504. 

,  charters  dated  at,  394,  401. 

Geddyng,  William,  134. 

Gedeney,  Joan,  176. 

Gedeworth.     See  Jedburgh. 

Gedling,  co.  Nottingham,  484. 

Gedney,  John,  mayor  of  London,  288. 

,  William,  .*>. 

Gefferon,  Gefron,  John,  37,  134. 

Gefliray,  William,  33. 

Geffrey,  I^}  son,  prebendary  of  St.  George, 
Windsor,  284. 

Maurice,  538. 

Gcfron.     See  Gefferon. 

Gegleswike.     See  Giggles  wick. 

Geillard,  William,  319. 

Geldeford.     See  GuiKiford. 

Geldehird,  George,  492. 

,  James,  492. 

Geldeston,  co.  Norfolk,  503. 

Gele,  Master  John,  prebendary  of  St.  Mary 
Ottery,  80. 

GelLam.     See  Yeldham. 

Gellys,  William,  469. 

Gelon,  John,  503. 

Gelyngham,  John,  253. 

Genny.    See  Jenney. 

Genoa,  Genoese,  54,  203,  206,  276,  302,  303, 
390,  503,  552,  554. 

,  ship  called  la  Santa  Maria  of,  492. 

Oente,  Robert,  32. 

Geoffrey,  son  of  Henry  II.,  393. 

Geoige,  duke  of  Clarence,  the  king's  brother, 
38,  52,  65,  66,  142,  198,  199,  212,  214, 
226,  308,  323,  327,  428,  474,  488,  489, 
529,  537,  542,  559,  561-563,  565,  566. 
568-576. 

,  lieutenant  of  Ireland,  142,  185,  272, 

437. 

letters  patent  of,  1S5,  270. 

grants  to    300,  828,   331,  362.   866, 

387,  388,  454.  484,  521. 

George,  Richard,  30,  32,  83,  85,  126,  203, 
801,  552. 

Gerald,  Ralph,  487. 

Warin  son  of,  171,  260,  306. 

Geraldinis,  Gerald  de,  273. 

Gerard,  Nicholas,  92. 

Gcrmyn,  John,  52,  302. 

Gerold,  William  son  of,  377. 

Gerrard,  Ralph,  487. 

Gerveys,  Genrays,  John,  108,  188,  443. 

,  Robert,  32. 

,  Thomas,  419. 

,  William,  100. 

Gery,  Henry,  204. 

,  Roger,  rector  of  Dummer,  182. 

, ,  parson  of  Whitchurch,  182. 

Geryn,  John,  192,  287,  389,  429. 

,  Peter,  389. 

,  Richard,  889. 


634 


GENERAL  INDEX. 


Geslinff,  Kobert,  .)4. 
Gest,  Johu,  302. 
Ghelabeke,  Giles,  483. 

Gibson,  Hobert,  266. 

And  see  Gybson. 
Giffiu^,  Jobn,  master  of  the  hospital  of  St. 

Leonard,  York,  247. 
,  Walter,  bishop  of  Bath  and  Wells, 

307. 
Gifford,  Giffard,  Gyflord,  John,  37,  99,  232, 

301,  346,  349,  364,  365,  368, 389,  563. 

,  Thomas,  560. 

Giffgleswick,  Gegleswike,  co.  York,  186,  485, 

455. 
Gilbert,  GUbard,  Gilbenl,  John,  445. 

,  Laurence,  524. 

,  Lettice  bis  wife,  524. 

,  Otho,  37,  102,  204,  349. 

,  Thomas,  467. 

,  WiUiam,  206,  234,  389. 

,  John  sou  of,  446. 

,  Jordan,  son  of,  341. 

Gildeford.     See  Gilford. 

Giles,  Gyles,  Gilys,  Gylys  John,  185,  206, 

314,419,456,566. 

,  Robert,  419. 

,  WilUam,  518. 

Gilford.     See  Guildford. 

Gilford,  GUdeford,  Gyldeford,  John,  49,  102, 

132,  362. 
Gilgarran.     See  Kilgerran. 
Gille,  Gylle,  Edward,  35. 

,  John, 254-256. 

.Richard,  185,418. 

,  Thomas,  12,  23,  72,  349,  459. 

, ,  escheator    in   the    county    of 

Devon,  364-366,  368,  461. 

,  escheator    in    the    county    of 

Dorset,  133,  134,  198. 

,  escheator  in  the  county    of 

Soraerset.  134,  198. 

, ,  the  younger,  28,  31,  129,  232. 

,  William,  parson  of  Chipstaple,  283. 

Gilliet,  John,  184. 
Gilliug.co.  York,  169,  269. 

,  East,  169. 

,  West,  169. 

Gilling  in  Rydale,  co.  York,  86. 
Gillingham,  Gyllyngham,  co.  Dorset,  11,  198, 
430,  482. 

,  forest  of,  129. 

Gillyng,  Richard,  320. 

Gilmyn,  John,  279. 

And  see  Gylmyn. 
Girlyngton,  Nicholas,    102,    108,    206,   233, 

381,676. 

,  Elizabeth  his  wife,  881. 

Girton,  John,  560,  561. 

Gisbum  in  Craven,  co.  York,  116. 

And  sec  Guisbrough. 

Gise,  John,  564. 

Gisleham,  Gyselham,  co.  Suffolk,  292. 


Gladman,  William,  510. 

,  Alice  his  wife,  510. 

Glamford  Brigg,  Glauoford  Brigg,  co.  Lin- 
coln, 195,  227,  844,  345. 

Glandvilla,  Ranulph  de,  342. 

Glanvill,  Gilbert  de,  bishop  of  Rochester 
[1185-1214],  404. 

,  Ranulph  de,  393. 

Glase,  Edmund,  124,  274. 
GUsebnry  [co.  Brecon],  43. 
Glassonby,  Glossenby,  co.  Cumberland,   140, 
534. 

Glastonbury,  co.  Somerset,  108,  201. 

,  abbey  of,  160. 

,  abbot  and  convent  of,  160. 

,  prior  and  convent  of,  160. 

,  abbot  of,  476. 

,  John,  abbot  of,  160. 

,  John  Chynnok,  abbot  of,  160. 

,  Adam  de  Sobbury,  abbot  of,  160. 

Glaunford  Brigg.     See  Glamford  Brigg. 
Gledil,  William,  339. 

Glemsford,  Glemmesford,  oo.  Suffolk,  189, 
503. 

Glen,  Great,  co.  Leicester,  103. 
Gloostone,  Gloston,  co.  Leicester,  318. 
Glosse,  John,  3. 
Glossenby.     See  Glassonby. 
Gloston.     See  Gloostone. 
Gloucester,  8,  15,  50,  6.5,  197,  219,  273,  296, 
441,  445,  467,  491,  519. 

,  burgesses  of,  244. 

,  Parliament  at,  101. 

,  letters  patent  dated  at,  94. 

,  charters  dated  at,  498,  557. 

,  St.   Peter's,  abbot   and  convent  of, 

293,  467. 

, ,  abbot  of,  52,  519. 

,  honour  of,  131. 

,  Robert,  first  earl  of,  260. 

,  WiUiam,  second  earl  of,  260. 

,  earl  of.     See  Clare. 

,  earldom  of,  128. 

,  duke  of.     See  Humphrey  ;  Richard. 

,  county  of,    30,  31,  33,   36,  40,  42, 

47,  6.%  77,  91,  97-99,  110,  133,  144, 
181,  201,  203,  205,  208,  213,  229,  278, 
303,  304,  325,  375,  891,  423,  426,  491, 
530,  583,  539,  553. 

,  ,  sheriff  of,    33,    65,    98,   100, 

203,  219,  480,  491,  519,  530,  553. 
And  see  Grevile  ;  Denys  ;  Berkeley. 

,   ,  escheator  in,  9,  85,  107,188, 

224,  228,  291,  334,  455,  477. 
, ,  outlawries  in,  3,  6,  263,  314, 

316,414,  415,418. 

, ,  mines  in,  194. 

, ,  subsidy  and  ulnage  of  cloth  in, 

47,  49. 
, ,  oommi8.«ions   of  the  peace  in, 

564. 
GlouccFtre,  John,  567. 


GENERAL  INDEX. 


635 


Gloacestre,  Thonuis,  receiver  general  of  the    ' 
duchy  of  Cornwall,  221. 

,  Walter  de,  500. 

Glover,  Joan.  258. 

,  Bo^r,  268. 

,  WUliam.Sl,  441. 

Glympton,  Glymton,  co.  Oxford,  268. 

Glyn,  John,  505. 

Gljndoidy,  Owen  de,  150. 

Goadby,  (jrodeby,  co.  Leicester,  187,  862. 

Goby,  Thomas,  418. 

Goddall.    See  Goodale. 

Godde,  James,  355. 

Goddeslond,   John,    parson    of    St.   Peter's 
Berkhampstead,  2 1 0. 

Goddington,  co.  Oxford,  480. 

Goddyn,  James,  476. 

Godebowre,  Thomas,  parson  of  Dacre,  122. 

Godcby.     See  Goadby. 

Godechepe,  Bichard,  462. 

Godeman,  Adam,  287,  288. 

Goderych,  Master  John,  58. 

Goderyk,  John,  318,  487. 

Grodewyn,  William,  rector  of  the  monastery 
of  Edingtoo,  312. 

Godeyer,  John,  parson  of  Newton  Kyme,  336. 

, ,  parson  of  Danby  Wisk,  836. 

Godfrey,  Bichard,  559. 

Godfrey,  bishop  of  Constantinople,  408. 

Godfrey,  John,  433. 

Godhall,  William,  417. 

Godlaxton.    See  Gitthlaxton. 

Godmmn,  Stephen,  320. 

Godmanston,  Simon,  472. 

Godmersham,  Goddemersham,  co.  Kent,  88, 
106,  178,  829,  380,  465,  54S. 

Godney,  co.  Somerset,  192. 

Godstone,  co.  Snrtey,  545. 

Godstow   [co.  Oxford],  abbess  and  nans  of, 

235. 
Godwell,  CO.  Kent,  88,  464,  548. 
Godyn,  John,  176. 
Godyng,  Alexander,  parson  of  Leveland,  479. 

,  John,  engrosser  of  the  Exchequer  of 

Ireland,  183. 

,  Bichard,  490. 

Godyere,  William,  492. 

,  Master  William,  347. 

Gogh,  David,  114. 

,  John,  272,  423. 

Goghan,  Goggan,  David,  447. 

Gohellouk.     ^Ve  Gwehelog. 

GoUind,  John,  100. 

Croldburgh,  William,  412. 

Gold  Cliff  [co.  Monmouth],  alien  priory  of, 
93,  106. 

Goldoourt,  CO.  Dorset,  358. 

Golde.  Boger,  147. 

Goldeham,  Clemen'.,  317. 

Goldesborgh,  William,  107. 

Goldesburgh,  Thomas,  577. 


Goldesuc,  Goldcsuy,  John,  33,  452. 

Goldington,  Goldyngton,  co.  Bedford,  417. 

Goldsmyth,  John,  535,  542. 

,  William,  201. 

Goldwell,  Goldewell,  Master  James,  dean  of 
Salisbury,  348. 

,  James,  archdeacon  of  Es8«x,  221. 

,  Thomas,  429,  498. 

Gkldworthy,  co.  Devon,  228,  372. 

Goldwyn,  Alice,  318,  418. 

,11iomas,  818,418. 

Goldyngton,  William,  417, 559. 

,  William,  de,  159. 

Golenante,  co.  Cornwall,  202. 

Goltho,  Goltchawe   [co.   Lincoln],  34,    112, 
151,371. 

Goly,  Thomas,  256,  420. 

Gomme,  William,  chaplain    of    Bestormell, 
120. 

Gomshall,  Gnmhulst,  eo.  Surrey,  179. 

Goodale,  Goddall,  Gudedale,  Adam,  16,  48, 
152. 

Gooda,  Bobert,  194. 

Goodenian,  Godeman,  lliomas,  204. 

Goodman,  John,  32. 

Goodrich,  Goderiehe,  Gndrioeh,  co.  Hereford, 
80,99,  114. 

Googche,  John,  319. 

Googh,  David,  429. 

Goold,  John,  297. 

Goolde,  Bichard,  384. 

Goose,  John,  259. 

Goofthays,  Goseies,  Gosyes,  co.  Ksscx,  145. 

Gore,  John,  874. 

,  Simon,  874. 

,  Thomas,  874. 

Gorge,  Walter,  302,  491. 

Gorges,  Elena  de,  228. 

,  Edmund,  527,526. 

,  Theobald,  228. 

, ,  knight,  99,  202,  203,  228,  280, 

527,571. 

,  Thomas,  228. 

,  Walter,  527. 

,  Mary  his  wife,  527. 

Gorneworth,  co.  Devon,  586. 

Gorwith,  Grufflth,  parson  of  Penearreg,  90. 

Goryng,  John,  205,  280,  429,  489,  493.  528. 

, ,  the  younger,  281,574. 

Gosberkirk,  CO.  Lincoln,  169,  815. 

Goscote,  CO.   I^eicester,  wapentake  of,   445, 
480. 

Goseiea.    See  Gooshays. 

Gosfield,  Gossefeld,  co.  Essex,  449. 

,  Gossefeld  Mohermers,  co.  Essex,  449. 

Gosforth,  Gosford  [co.  Cumberland],  479. 

GoHlyn,  Thomas,  535,  542. 

Gop.<<e,  Bichnrd,  .')5. 

,  Marjory  his  wife,  oo» 

,  William,  55, 86. 

Gosselyn,  Master  William,  83. 


636 


GENERAL  INDEX. 


Gotle,  Richard,  862. 
Goudhurst,  co.  Kent,  236. 
Gourney,  John,  188,  297. 

,  Matthew,  176. 

Goasla,  Adam  de,  496. 

Gower,  in  South  Wales,  81,91,119,  426. 

,  lord  of.     See  Mowhray. 

Gower,  Edward,  14,  58,  152,  153,  437, 

,  John,  546. 

,  Thomas,  151. 

Gowesell.     See  Gooxhill. 

Gowesell,  John,  2. 

Groweyn  a  Llaka  Halog,  co.  Monmouth,  425. 

GozhiU,   Gouxhill,    Gowesell,    co.    Lincoln, 

184,  192,  344,  468. 
Gra,  John,  472. 

Thomesia  his  wife,  472. 

Grace,  Jerome  de,  270. 

,  Thomas,  194,  266. 

Grafton  [co.  Northampton],  155. 

Grainshy,  Granesby,  Graynesby,  co.  Lincoln, 

169,  181,  184,  427,  468,  473. 
Gramponnd,  Graant  Pound,  co.  Cornwall,  406. 
Granchester,    Grauncestre,    co.    Cambridge, 

369. 
Grandconrt,  Graoncortes,  oo.  Essex,  97,  144. 
Grandissono,  Otto  de,  310. 
Grandorge,  Roger,  73,  279. 
Grandysdon.    See  Gransden. 
Graneby,  John,  286. 
Granesby.    See  Gnunsby. 
Gransden,    Grandesdene,    Grandysdon,    co. 

HoDtingdon,  131,  444. 
Grantham,  co.  Lincoln,   131,  212,  342,  450, 

528. 

,  letters  patent  dated  at,  464. 

Grantham,  Thomas,  352. 

, ,  mayor  of  Lincoln,  499,  524. 

Grapefige,  William,  267,  288. 

Grasmcre,  Gresmere,  co.  Westmoreland,  169. 

Grauncortes.     See  Grandcourt. 

Graunford.     See  Graontfort. 

Graunsomysode.     See  Oakle. 

Graant,     Master     Thomas      prebendary    of 

Hastings,  22. 

Walter  le,  500. 

,  WUliam,  89. 

Grauntfort,  Babilo,  33,  525. 

,  John,  525. 

Graant  Pound.     See  Grampouud. 
Grave,  co.  Wilts,  384,  385. 
Grave,  Itertram  de  la,  86,  452. 

,  John,  487. 

,  Alice  his  wife,  487. 

Robert,  331,  4«7. 

Graveley,  Edmund,  50. 

GraveU,  John,  202,  278. 

Gravenell,  Master  Robert  de,  500. 

Gravenhurst,  co.  Bedford,  331. 

Gravcsend,  Graveshende,    co.  Kent,  15,  71, 

88,  269,  465,  .'536,  545,  548. 


Graveston,  Thomas,  225. 

Gray.     See  Grey. 

Grayle,  Richard,  514. 

Grays  in  Cavendish,  Greys  in  Caundysshe, 
CO.  Suffolk,  79,  134. 

Grayson,  Arthur,  49. 

,  Thomas,  16,  78. 

Graystoke.     See  Greystoke. 

Greaue,  co.  Kent,  322. 

Greenfield  [co.  Lincoln],  convent  of,  342. 

Greenhaugh,   Grenehalgh,  co.   Northnmber- 
land,  341. 

Greenhoe,  South,  Suthegrenehowc,  co.  Nor- 
folk, hundred  of,  184. 

Greenwich,  Grenewiche,  co.    Kent,    16,   43, 
264,  433,  434. 

,  East,  Estgrenewiche,  151,  451. 

West,  264. 

Greg,  William,  248. 

Gregory,  Matthew,  105. 

,  Robert,  314. 

GregyUton,  John,  413. 

Grendell,  William,  417. 

Grendescombe,  co.  Cornwall,  78. 

Grendons  in  Great  Shelford,  co.  Cambridg^e, 
269. 

Grene,  Andrew,  319. 

,  Henry,  386,  879,  415,  431,  518,  569. 

, .master  of  the  hospital  of  St. 

John  Baptist,  Brackley,  28. 

,  Jamas,  51,  117. 

,  John,  33,  35,  139,  142,  206,  228,231, 

284,  530,  564. 

,   ,  escheator  in  the    counties  of 

Kent  and  Middlesex,  294 

,  Robert,  436,  476. 

,  Richard,  299. 

,  Thomas,  58,  79,238,  273,  297,  316, 

317,  823. 

, ,440,488. 

,  Matilda  his  wife,  440. 

,  Thomas,  the  younger,  35. 

,  William,  33,  139,  142,  172,  564. 

,  Agatha  his  wife,  172. 

Grenefeld,  John,  102,  206, 577. 

,  Thomas,  419. 

,  Isabel  his  wife,  419. 

Greneford,  John,  230. 

Greneham,  William,  180,  313. 

Grcnehill,  John,  parson  of  Bulwell,  478. 

Grenelawe,  John,  56. 

Grenestede,  co.  Northumberland,  34 1 . 

Grenewiche.    See  Greenwich. 

Gronvell,  William,  101. 

Grcseley,  Gresley,  John,  102,  135,  562,  572. 

Gresmere.     See  Grasmerc. 

Grestain,  abbot  of,  110. 

Greston  [co.  Gloucester],  hundred  of, 53,  221, 
268. 

Gretton,  co.  Northampton,  170. 

Grevele.    See  Grovele, 


GENERAL  INDEX. 


637 


Greveil,  Richard,  298. 

,  Robert,  67. 

Greyill,  Grerell,  Grerjll,  John,  66,  08,  205, 
349,  574. 

, ,  sheriff  of  Gloucester,  116. 

, ,  sheriff  of  Warwick  and  Leices- 
ter, 85,  217. 

,  Gaewell,  Jocosa,  188,  192. 

Grey,  Gray,  Edmund,  444. 

, ,  lord  of  Hastinges,  Waysefard 

and  Ruthyn  and  earl  of  Kent,  I,  132, 
328,391.417,  457,491,559,  560,565, 
568. 

, ,  treasurer  of  England,  286. 

, ,  chief  justice  of  the  county  of 

Merioneth,  467. 

Edward,  178,587. 

,  Ueury,  89,  535,  542. 

,  of  Codnore,  19,  285,  304,  562, 

569. 

, ,  the  younger,  121.^ 

,  John,  161,  271,  379,  540,  541. 

,  John  de,  408. 

, ,bi.shop  of  Norwich  [1200-1214], 

499. 

,  Patrick,  164. 

,  Ralph,  32,  33, 233, 294, 388,  339, 343, 

348,  565. 

, ,  lord  of  Werk  and  Het9n,388. 

,  Jaquetta  his  wife,  888. 

,  Ralph  the  elder,  228. 

,  Reginald,  266. 

, lord  of  Wilton,  177. 

,  Richard  de,  395. 

Richard,  177. 

, ,  lord  of  PowiH,  17,98,570. 

,  Robert,  297,  437. 

,Tboma.s47,  68,  145,   148,186,  210, 

321,440,461,478,560. 

,  Isabel  his  wife,  145,  321. 

,  Thouuui,  of  Rugemont,  35. 

,  William,  294. 

,  bishop  of  Kly  [1454-1478],  68, 

249,  327,  353,  361,  38U,  387,  397,  467, 
560,  564,  5G5,  568,  57". 

Greyes,  co.  Essex,  193,  197. 

Greyes  in  Caundyssh.  See  Grayn  in  Caven- 
dish. 

Gre3'8on,  Arthur,  206. 

Greystoke,  Gruyntoke,  Ralph,  lord  of  Gray- 
stoke,  30,  66,  102,  132,  231,  233,  280, 
281,  33*2,  359, 458,  469,  580,  569,  575- 
577. 

,  Robert,  469. 

(fre^-Hyde,  co.  Northumberland,  341. 
(jpeyvo,  John,  vicar  of  Rlakeslcy,  174. 
Grice,  Robert,  28,  31. 

,  Thomas,  205. 

(friff',  John,  40. 

Griffith,  Gregory,  183,  890. 

,  Thomas,  135. 

,  Walter,  349,  576. 


Griffith,  William,  117,  293. 
Griffyn,  William,  491. 
Grimesby.     See  Grimsby. 
Grimsby,  Ghrimesby,  Grymmesby,  co.  Lincoln, 
41,  94,  224. 

,  St.  Augustine's,  abbot  and  convent 

of,  41. 

, ,  John,  abbot  of,  41. 

,  Little,  CO.  Lincoln,  184. 

Grimoldby,  Grymelby,  c^.  Lincoln,  169. 

Grimstead,  co.  Wilts,  546. 

Grimsthorpe,  Grymesthorp,  co.  Lincoln,  113, 
141,  361. 

Grinstead,  East,  E8tgrenstede,co.  Su88ex,41S, 

,  West,  519. 

Grisaker,  Ambrose,  577. 

,  Percival,  102,  577. 

Gristhwaite,  Cristhwaytt,  co.  York,  186. 

Groffam,  Groffham,  John,  32,  545. 

Groos,  Thomas,  172. 

Grossetter,  Edmund,  185. 

Grosmont,  St.  Mary's,  co.  York,  prior  of,  508. 
,    Grossewbayte,  co.  Westmoreland,  169. 
^    Groton  [co.  Suffolk],  258. 

Gioundeswily,  Thomas,  2. 

Grousse,  Thomas,  4. 

,  John,  4. 

GroTe,  CO.  Nottingham,  543. 

,  CO.  Hereford,  77,  372. 

Grove,  John,  69. 

,  William,  507. 

Qrovele,  Grevele,  co.  Wilts,  forest  of,  15, 104, 
461. 

Grover,  John,  555. 

Grubbe,  James,  194,  266. 

Gruffitfa,  William,  529. 

Gmffith  ap  Robyn,  529. 

Grundisborough,  Groundesburgh,  co.  Suffolk, 
180. 

Gryffyn,  Thomas,  135. 

Grygge,  Hugh,  504. 

Gryme,  Richard,  572. 

,  Thomas,  433,  448,  491. 

Grymelby.    See  Grimoldby. 

Grymesby,   Grymmesby,    William,  28,  224, 
336. 

i  Anne  his  wife,  336. 

Grymesthorp.     See  Grimsthorpe. 

Grymmesby.    See  Grimsby  j  Grymesby. 

Grymston,  Walter  de,  576. 

William,  576. 

Gryndell,  William,  37. 

Grys,  Thomas,  301. 

Gryseley,  Nicholas,  511. 

Gryshagh  in  Wymondham  [co.  Norfolk],  67, 
135,  323. 

Gryssyngham,  John  de,  462. 

Gudedale.    See  Goodale. 

Gudricch.     See  Goodrich. 

Guernsey,  Garnesey,  island  of,  34,  49,  71. 

,  men  of,  465. 


638 


GENERAL  INDEX. 


Guest  by  Foalsham,  eo.  Norfolk,  257. 
Guewell.    See  GpeviU. 
Guienne,  65. 

And  see  Aqnitaiue. 
Guilden  Morden,  co.  Cambridge,  461. 
GuUdford/Qilford,  Guldeford,  Gyldeford,  co. 

Surrey,  48.  44,90,96,211,  220,  263, 

»28,  404»  409,  423,  505,  507,  522,  523. 

,  cbarters  dated  at,  308,  477. 

Guipuzcoa,  Ypusce,  jn  Spain,  279. 
Guisbrougb,  Gubuni,  Gjsbum  in  Clyveland, 

CO.  York,  prior  of,  289. 

,  Thomas,  prior  of,  502. 

Guizance,  Gysyns,  CO.  Northnmberland,  114, 

341. 

Guldeford.     See  Guildford. 
Gumbulst.    See  Gomshall. 
Gunby,  co.  Lincoln,  115,  282. 
Gunthorp,  William,  84. 
Gunture,  John,  4. 

Gurland,  Gurlyn,  co.  Cornwall,  319. 
Gurlyn,  William,  319. 
Gurney,  John,  273. 

,  Matthew,  23. 

GuBsage,  Gusseche  Bowne,  co,  Dorset,  131. 
Guthlaxton,  Godlaxton,  co.  Leicester,  hundred 

of,  433. 
Guthrie,  John  of,  57. 
Guybon,  Agnes,  417. 
Guyen,  Robert,  78. 
Guynes  in  Artois,  abbess  of,  441. 
Guynnyth.    Sec  Gwyneth. 
Guyntetell,  Thomas,  3. 
Guysnes,  in  Picardy,  81. 
Gwehelog,  Gk)hellouk,  co.  Monmouth,  425. 
Gwen,  Master  Richard,  449. 
Gwyneth,  Guynnyth,  Richard,  148,  835. 
Gybbes,  Gybbys,  John,  37,  102,  204,  230, 

509. 
,  parson  of  Leveland,  478. 

,  Thomas,  15. 

Gybson,  John,  468. 

,  Thomas,  4,  5. 

And  see  Gibson. 
Gye,John,  114,135,203,  206. 

,  clerk  of  the  king's  ordnance, 

183. 

Gyffard,    William,    bishop    of    Winchester 
[1107-1129],  307. 

Gyflord,  Thomas,  188. 

And  see  Gifford. 
Gylard,  John,  488. 
Gylberd,  John,  67. 
,  Richard,  514. 

And  see  Gilbert 
Gylby,  Thomas,  449. 
Gyldeford.    See  Gilford. 
Gyles.    See  Giles. 
Gylforth.     See  Guildford. 
Gylle.    See  Gille. 
Gyllyngham.     See  Gillinghara. 


Gylniyn,  Ulchard,  46. 

,  Thomas,  504,  507. 

And  see  Gilmyn. 

Gylyot, ,  mayor  of  Vork.  353. 

Gymber,  Henry,  660,  565. 

Gyn,  Alexander,  850. 

Gynger,  John,  545. 

Gyngges  ad  Petrani.     See  Ingatoatono, 

Gyon,  John,  207. 

Gyrlyngton.     See  Girlington. 

Gysburo.     See  Guisbrough. 

Gyselham.     See  Gisleham. 

Gysyns.     See  Guisance. 


H. 


Habneforth,  Hanforth,  in  Iceland,  378. 

Habrough,  Haburgh,  co.  Lincoln,  2. 

Haburgh.     See  Habrough. 

Habyndon,  Henry,  94,  136. 

Habyngton.    See  Abingtou. 

Hacche,  Eustace  de,  62. 

Haocheford,  John,  4. 

Hacker,  William,  204. 

Hackford,  Hakford,  co.  Norfolk,  285,  296. 

Haoon,  William,  416. 

Haddele.    See  Hadleigh. 

Haddenham,  co.  Cambridge,  511. 

Haddington,  co.  Lincoln,  .352. 

Haddiscoe,  oo.  Norfolk,  286. 

Haddon  [co.  Derby],  31. 

,  Nether,  co.  Derby,  81. 

Haddon,  WiUiam,  415. 

Hadelesey,  John,  20. 

Hadham,  Little,  by  Stortford,   co.   Hertford, 
107,  338,  339,  528. 

,  Much,  CO.  Hertford,  338. 

Hadham  (Tudor),  Edmund,  earl  of  Richmond, 
212. 

Hadleigh,  Hadley,  oo.  Essex,  18,  23,  39,  55, 
60,  138,  209,  429,  445,  456,  469,  481. 

,  Ree,  CO.  Essex,  94,  136,  209. 

,  CO.  Suffolk,  503. 

Hadley  [co.  Middlesex],  466. 
Hadley,  Robert,  44,  80. 
Hadlow,  CO.  Kent,  279. 

,  charter  dated  at,  498. 

Hadsore,  John,  74. 

Hagbome,  East,  Bsthakeboume,  co.   Berks, 
258. 

,    West,  Westhagburn    [co.    Berks], 

476. 

Hagenes,  honour  of,  358,  445,  480. 

Hagh,  CO.  Lincoln,  alien  priory  of,  161. 

Hagh,  Thomas,  332. 

Haghous,  Hagus,  John,  487. 


aKNERAL  INDEX. 


G39 


1 1  a-^  ley,  Hageley,  co.    Worcester,  112,  223, 

2G1,1>97,  507. 
llagloe,  Ila^gelowe,  co.  Gloucester,  169. 
HuIh,  Ualph  de,  376.  402. 

llaile^,  Hayles,  co.  GIouc6i»tcr,  ubbot  aud 
monks  of,  193,  531. 

,  William,  ubbot  of,  531. 

,  Kichard,  abbot  of,  415. 

Hail  Weston,  Haileweston,  Halyweston,  co. 
Huntingdon,  156,  413. 

Hainault,  Henawd,  517. 

llukebech,  Akebycbe  (in  Emneth),  co.  Nor- 
folk, 226,  498. 

Hakebech,  Adam  de,  242. 

Haket,  John,  38,  208. 

Hake  worthy,  John,  315. 

Hakford.    See  Hackford. 

Hakthorpe,  co.  Lincoln,  371. 

Hakwell.     See  Hawkwell. 

Halberton,  Holbonghton,  co.  Devon,  7,  10, 
70,  104,  317. 

Halden,  Halton,  co.  Kent,  88,  465,  548. 

Haldenby,  Haldynby,  John,  35,  528. 

Haldham.     See  Aldham. 

Haldynby.     See  Haldenby. 

Hale,  Hole,  Hoell,  co.  Lincoln,  113,  141. 

,  Great,  Westhalle,  co.  Lincoln,  861. 

,  Hole  in  Clee,  co.  Lincoln,  419. 

Hale,  John,  319. 

Hales,  John,  bishop  of  Coventry  and  Lich- 
field, [1459-1490],  85,  270,  275,  334, 
379,  488,  523.  524,  534,  570, 572,  574. 

,  Robert,  prior  of  the  hospital  of  St. 

John  of  Jerusalem  in  England,  153. 

Halesowen,  co.  Salop,  abbot  and  convent  of, 
321,  461. 

,  John,  abbot  of,  321. 

Haleswortb,  co.  Suffolk,  5. 
Halewell,  Halywell,  Henry,  20,  501. 

,  Elizabeth  his  wife,  501. 

Halgatt.     See  Hallgate. 

Halgh,  Christopher,  320. 

Halghton,  John,  268. 

Haliday,  Halyday,  John,  the  elder,  32,  441. 

,  Robert,  28. 

,  Walter,  298. 

WiUiam,  3. 

Haliwell.     See  Holywell. 
Hall,  Halle,  Henry,  205,  451. 

,  John,  101,  l.')2,  234,  .101. 

,  John  atte,  463. 

,  Matthew,  505,  506. 

,  Richard,  201. 

,  Robert,  521. 

>  Roger,  386. 

,  Thomas,  261. 

,  Vincent,  214. 

,  William,  314,  515. 

Hallamshire,  Halumshire,  158. 

Hallatou,  Holoughtou,  co.  Leicester,  195,  484. 

Halley,  Bartholomew,  28. 


Halley^  Peter,  28. 

,  Robert,  27b. 

Hallgate,  Halgatt,  co.  Vork,  169. 

Hallingbury,  Great,  co.  Kssex,  83. 

Hallybnrton,  Master  Patrick,  5 12. 

Ili^lman,  Thomas,  411. 

Halnesholte.     See  Alisholt. 

Halquai,  Martin  en,  527. 

Hals,  CO.  Devon,  265. 

Halsbury,  Hallisbury,  co.  Devon,  372. 

Halshanger,  John,  459. 

Halstead,  Hallested,  co.  Leicester,  186. 

,  CO.  Essex,  255,  413. 

Halswele,  William,  3. 

Haltemprice,  Hautenpris,  priory  of,  co.  York, 
237. 

Halton,  CO.  Lancaster,  140,  534. 

,  GO.  Lincoln,  169. 

,  CO.  Oxford,  179,  365. 

,  CO.  Somerset,  333,  359,  360,  365. 

And  see  Halden. 

Halumshire.     See  Hallamshire. 

Halverstang  [co.  Westmoreland],  111. 

Halyday.    See  Haliday. 

Halygode,  John,  91. 

Halyngbury.     See  Hallingbury. 

Halywell.     See  Halewell. 

Ham,  Hamme,  co.  Surrey,  97,  124,  144,  186, 
274,  275,  525. 

,  West,  CO.  Essex,  221. 

Hamburg,  in  Gennany,  232. 
Hambury,  John,  abbot  of  Rocester,  550. 
Hamelak.     See  Helmesley ;  Koos. 
Hamelset.     See  Ambleside. 
Hamelton,  John,  206,  234. 
Hamelyn,  John,  101,  385. 

, ,  Elizabeth  his  wife,  385. 

Hamertoo,  co.  Huntingdon,  5. 

Hamerton,  Thomas,  319. 

Hametetch,  lord  of.     See  Hnngerford. 

Hammertm'th,  co.  Middlesex,  435,  510. 

Hammes,  John,  284. 

Hammys,  Richard,  446. 

Hamond,  John,  553,  572. 

,  Richard,  299. 

,  William,  parson  of  Castle  Rising,  180. 

Hamondeston,  co.  Dublin,  54. 

Hampden,  Edmund,  108,  181,  184,  318,  473, 

517,551. 

,  Anne  his  wife,  181,  184,  517. 

,  John,  214. 

,  Thomas,  204,  452. 

, ,  of  Hampdeu,  889. 

, ,of  Kembell,  560. 

Hampuet,  East,  Esthamptonet,  co.  Sussex,  443. 

,  West,  Westhamptonet,  co.  Sussex,  448. 

Hampstead  Marshall,  co.  Berks,  9, 16, 56, 445, 

481. 

Hampton,  Bishop's  [co.  Warwick],  90. 
in  Arden,  co.  Warwick,  490. 


«w 


GENERAL  INDEX. 


Hampton  Uaye,  co.  Oxford,  263. 
Hampton,  John,  379,  412. 

,  Anne  his  wife,  379. 

,  Rslph,  349,  490. 

Thomas  de,  sheriff  of  Southampton, 

522. 

,  William,  sheriff  of  London,  259,  289. 

, ,  sheriff  of  Middlesex,  209,  217. 

Uanaper,  the.  8,  14,  15,22,  38,  39,  41,  45,  46, 
48,  49,  51,  63,  54,  56,  59-63,  68,  72, 
74,  76,  79,  81,  82,  84,  87,  89,  94-98, 
!03,  106.  107,  109,  121,  125,  128-130, 
136,  137,  140.  142,  146-150,  152,  153, 
155-165,  167,  168,  170,  171.  176,  180, 
185,  190,  192,  200,  208,  210,  218,  219, 
221,  222,  228-230,  235-252,  259,  260, 
264,  265,  267,  271,  274,  276,  285,  288, 
291,  296- K)l,  305-313,  321,  322,  323, 
325,  826,  328-330,  333,  336,  337,  340- 
342,  353,  355,  356,  363,  369,  370,  373, 
378-382,  384,  385,  388,  892,  401,  405- 
409,  421,  423,  427,  429,  431-433,  437, 
442-444,  447,  449,  456,  459,  462,464- 
467,  471,  472,  476,  485,494-500,  512, 
515,  517-519,  522,  523,  527,  631,  532, 
538,  539,  543,  544,  547,  555-558. 

,  keeper  or,  93,  128,  190,  484,  516. 

And  see  Kirkeham ;  Colte. 
Hanburgh.     See  Handborough. 
II anbury,  Robert,  12. 
Hancock,  Thomas,  parson    of    St.  Andrew 

Hubbard,  London,  300. 
Handborough,  Hanburgh,  co.  Oxford,  25, 151, 

359. 

Handlowe,  Nicholas,  432. 

Handsworth,  Hondesworth,  co.  Stafford,  1 12, 

217,  298,  485. 
Hanecok,  Thomas,  385. 
llanforth,  Habneforth,  in  Iceland,  378. 
Hanford,  Hugh,  435. 
Hanham,  Hanam,  co.  Gloucester,  382. 

West,  382. 

Hanham,  John,  508. 
Hankford,  co.  Devon,  265. 
Hanle,  377. 

Hanlee,  Nicholas  de,  128. 
Hanmer,  John,  37. 
Hannes,  Thomas,  274. 

,  Isabel  his  wife,  274. 

,  William,  274. 

Hanningfield,  East,  Esthanyteld,  co.  Essex, 

524. 
Hannington,  co.  Northampton,  431. 
Hanse  Almaiii,  349. 
Hansards,  276. 
Hanwell,  co.  Middlesex,  166. 
Hanwell,  Thomas,  138. 
Hanworthe,  John,  487. 
Hanxton,  John,  194. 
Harbart  (Herbert),  William,  13. 
Harbledown,  Harbaldowne,  Herebaudon,  co. 

Kent,  88,  210,  465,  548. 
,  hospital  of,  49,  378. 


Harbottle,  Herebotell,  co.   Northiunberland^ 
29,  113,466. 

Harby,  Hardeby,  co.  Leicester,  104«  352. 

Harcourt,  charter  dated  at,  408. 

Uarcourt,  Harecourt,  John,  29,  34. 

,  Bichard,  7,  198,  278,   300,  346,  347, 

359,  363,  886,  554, 570. 

, ,  sheriff  of  Oxford  and  Berks, 

IS. 

,  Bdith  his  wife,  198. 

,  Robert,  29,  34,  278,   300,   846,347, 

381,  885,  891,  478,  559,  o70. 

,  William,  29,  34,  101,  202,  278,  478. 

• ,  sheriff  of  Warwick  and  Leices- 
ter, 323. 

Hardeben,  Philip,  487. 

Hardeby.     See  Harby. 

Hardegrove,  Thomas,  127. 

Hardelagh.     See  Harlech. 

Harden,  Robert,  450. 

Hardenesse.     See  Dartmouth. 

Hardewyke,  William,  287,  288. 

Hardgill,  Hargille,  Edward,  24,  48,  72,  522. 

,  Thomas,  35. 

Hardington,  co.  Somerset,  70. 

Hardlot,  John,  68. 

Hardware,  Richard,  360. 

Hard  wick,  Hardwik,  co.  Norfolk,  125,  439. 

,  CO.  Nottingham,  22. 

Hardy,  Robert,  553. 

Hardyng,  Robert,  413. 

,  Walter,  54. 

Harebotell.     See  Harbottle. 

Barebotell,  Herbotell,  Bertram,  66,  569. 

,  Brian,    sheriff  of   Northumberland, 

569. 

,  John,  569. 

Hareby,  Simon,  135,  313,567. 

Harecourt.     See  Harcourt. 

Hareman.    See  Hayrman. 

Harescombe,  Hariscombe,  co.  Gloucester,  197, 
424. 

Haresfield,  co.  Gloucester,  424. 
Hare  well,  William,  443. 
Hargille.     See  Hardgill. 
Harigge.     See  Hay  ridge. 
Harington,  Haryngton,  Anne,  59. 
,  James,  445,  460,  541. 

,   ,  escheator  in    the  county    of 

York,  479. 

,  John,  30,  59. 

,  William,  34,  118,  432, 492. 

And  see  Harrington. 
Harkstowe.     See  Horkstow. 
Harlakynden,  William,  209,  429. 
Harlech,  Hairdelagh,  co.  Merioneth,  69,271, 

852,  355,  457,  467. 
Harlesduse  [co.  Surrey],  451. 
Harleston,  co.  Devon,  333,  359,  364,  365. 

,  CO.  Stafford,  81. 

Harleston,  John,  180,  205. 


GEtVERAL  INDEX. 


641 


Hiirlu3t(m,  HicUard,  :)28. 

,  Wiiliam,  52,  135. 

t *  escheatorin  the  countj  of  Nor- 
folk, 67. 

Harleton.     See  HarltoD. 
Harlewyn,  Herlewjn,  Benedict,  180. 

,  Alice  his  wife,  180. 

,  John,  47,  137,204. 

Harley,  John,  479. 

Harleyford,  Herleford,  co.Buckiogham,  .^75. 

Harlinfrton,  Herljngdon,  co.  Bedford,  417. 

Harlow,  oo.  Enex,  6. 

Harlton,  Harleton,  co.  Cambridge,  131,  438. 

Hameham,  376. 

Hamefl,  Walter,  20. 

Hameyg.    See  Hanreyfi. 

Harodon,  Richard,  35. 

Harold.  William,  54. 

Harome,  Harum  by  Helmsley,  co.  York,  455. 

Harpoote,  William,  9. 

Harpetre.     ^ee  Harptree. 

Harpham,  John  de,  496. 

Harpisfeld,  Nicholas,  129,  356,  479. 

Harpole,  Horpoll,  co.  Northampton,  195,  369. 

Harpoar,  Harper,  Harpur,  Henry,  546. 

John,  91,  101,  191,  287,  429,  572. 

,  WiUiam,  173,560. 

Harptree.  West,  co.  Somerset,  23,  180,  176, 
177.  362. 

Harreardby.     See  Harrowby. 

Harres,  William,  501. 

Ilarreys,  Kichard,  280. 

Harriet^ham,  Heriett8faam,  co.  Kent,  468. 

Harrington,  WiUiam,  lord  of,  118. 

,  Katharine  his  wife,  118. 

And  see  Bonvile  ;  Harington. 

Harrowby,  Harreardby,  co.  Lincoln,  342. 

Harrowdon,    Herowdon,    Great,  oo.   North- 
ampton, 195,369. 

Little,  195,369. 

Harry,  John,  509. 

,  Peter  Jack,  68. 

Harry  Barowe,  GeofiFrey,  68,  201. 

,  Hugh,  201. 

,  John,  68,  201. 

Grannd,  Hugh,  68. 

Ilarryce,  John,  152. 

Harryes,  Thomas,  265,  511. 

Harryson,  Peter,  272- 

Harston,  Herston,  co.  Cambridge,  315. 

Hartanger,  Hertanger,  co.  Kent,  88,  464.  548. 

Hartescote,  co.  Cambridge,  369. 

Hartfeld,  John,  31. 

Harthill,  Herthyll,  co,   York,  wapentake  of, 
451. 

Hartilpole,  John,  36. 
Hartmgton,  co.  Derby,  280. 
Hartisborn,  William,  294 
Hartland,  Hertiland,  Hertlond.co.  Devon,  372. 
Hartland,  abbot  and  canons  of,  497. 
M     86914. 


I 


Hartland,  Richard  Tawetou,  ubbot  of,  497. 
Hurtlaw,  Hartlowe,  co.  Northumberland,  265. 
Uartlcbnry,  II  ert ylburie,  co.  Worcester,  9 1 ,  388. 

Hartley    Wentpall,     Hertley     Waspaill,    co. 

Southampton,  39. 
llartlot,  John,  ^8. 

Hartwell,  Hertwell,  co.  Buckingham,  367. 
Hartyngton,  Kdmund,  280. 

Harreys,  Hamevs,  Herveys,  Philip,  208,  389, 
559. 

, master  of  the  king*s  ordnance, 

14,36,63.  114,294. 

Harward,  Robert,  471. 

Harwell,  William,  258. 

Harwich,  Herewyche,  co.  Essex,  278. 

Harwode,  John  de,  500. 

Haryngton.     See  Haringtoo. 

Haselbuiy,  Hasilbeare,  co.  Dorset,  225,  226, 
454. 

,  CO.  Somerset,  7,  10, 104. 

Haselden,    Hasildeu,     Hasylden,    Elisabeth, 
prioress  of  Elstow,  208,  224. 

..,  John,  561. 

,  William,  66,  68,  133,  301, 560. 

Haseley,  William,  315. 

Hasellore.    See  Hasilor. 

Haselwode.     See  Hazlewood. 

Hasilbaye,  co.  Derby,  304. 

Hasilbeare.     See  Ilaselbury. 

Hasilden.    See  Haselden. 

Hasilor,  Hasellore,  co.  Dorset,  hundred  of,  131. 

Haske.     See  Ash. 

Haslingfleld,  co.  Cambridge,  506. 

Hasshemgge.    See  Ashridge. 

Haatercombe.    See  Hestercombe. 

Hastingleigh,  Uastyngkgh,  co.  Kent,  493. 

Hastings,  Hastynges,  co.  Sussex,  20,  27,  35, 
125,  138,  145,  199,  280. 

,  rape  of,  138. 

,  king's  free  chapel  of,  22,  138. 

Hastynges,  Alice,  506T 

,  Edmund,  66,  86,  269,  348,  450. 

, ,  escheator  in  the  county  of  York, 

291.  ^ 

,  Hugh,  277. 

,  John,  102,510,577. 

, ,  earl  of  Pembroke,  353,445, 481. 

,  Laurence  de,  earl  of  Pembroke  and 

lord  ofWeyseford  andBergevenny,306. 
Ralph,  13,   14,  21,  34,  37,  47,   134, 

195,  283,  823,  369,  371,  431,  437, 569. 

,   Anne  his  wife,  369. 

,  Richard,  34,  187,  362,  .566. 

,  Robert,  156. 

,  Thomas,  553. 

..., ,  William,  13,  30,  34,  35,  37,  78,  128, 

469. 

, ,  lord  of  Hastynges;  7,  9,  65,  66, 

88,  99, 132,  134, 177,  190, 199,  201,  221, 
233,  279,  303,  304,  346,  431,  444,  450, 
470,  482.  489-491,  529,562,  566-570, 

.j74. 

S  S 


642 


GENEBAL  IKDEX 


Htstyngefl,  William,  king'fl  chamberlain,  26, 
59,  103.  188,  222,  308,  n52-:i54,  4U9, 
469,  540,  550. 

, cuamberiaiu  of  North  Walei, 

26,  529. 

, ,  master  of  the  mint,  ISO,  347» 

870,  371,  483. 

, ,  reoeirer-geneml  of  the  duchy 

of  ComwaU,  9,  221,  382,  358. 

,  Katharine  his  wife,  104,  854. 

Hasvlden.    See  Haselden. 

ft 

Ilatclyff.    See  Hattecliff. 

Xaterbergh,  John,  412. 

Hatfield,  Hatfeld,  Hattefeld,  G,  335, 380. 

,  00.  York,  58,  831,  843,  436,  487. 

Hatfeld,  Haitfeld,  Hay tf eld,  John,  66,102,576. 

,  Richard,  12,  66,  133,  560. 

,  Thurston,  81. 

Hath,  Robert,  89. 

Hatherlee,  William,  prior  of  Henton,  128. 

Hatheme,  co.  Leieester,  187,  862. 

Hatleff,  John,  86. 

Hatley,  Bast,  SsthatlCi  oo.  Cambridge,  461. 

Hatteclif  ,  John,  62. 

Hattecliff  Hatclyff,  Hatteclylfe,  William,  95, 
189. 

,  Master  William,  the  king's  secretary, 

476. 

, ,the  king's  physician,  62,  196, 

197,828,324,887,444. 

Hattefeld.     See  Hatfield. 

Hatvele,  Hatweell,  James,  16,  43. 

Hatys,  John,  283. 

Hanchet,  Thomas,  502. 

Haughton,  Hawghton,  co.  Lancaster,  172. 

Haukesbergfa.    See  Hawkeeborough. 

Haunes,  oo.  Bedford,  217. 

Haunewyke,  John,  518. 

Haunsert,  Hauserd,  Richard,  the  elder,  101, 
205. 

, ,  of  Ouresby,  451,  567. 

, ,  of  South  Eelsey,  567. 

Haunton,  Haweuton,  co.  Stafford,  174. 

Hauserd.    See  Haunsert. 

Haustyn,  Henry,  258. 

Haute,  Bdmund,  230. 

,  John,  vicar  of  Chiswick,  263. 

,   William,  101,  209,  301,   429,   458, 

498, 566. 

, ,the  younger,  102,  125,  566. 

,  the  elder,  138. 

Hauteupris.    See  Haltemprice. 
Havant,  Havont,  co.  Southampton,  1. 
Havecok,  Thomas,  27. 

Haverfordwest,  co.  Pembroke,  21  91,119, 
533. 

,  burgesses  of,  495. 

HaTarhill,  HaTerhnll,  co.  Suffolk,  6,  418. 

Havering  atte  Bower,  co.  Essex,  23,  27,  46, 
83,  110,  118, 127,  257,  821,  882,  396, 
480,481. 

,  charters  dated  at,  237,  399,  557. 


Haward.    See  Hf»ward. 

Hawardedyn,  David,  441. 

Hawdale,  Robert,  135. 

Hawe,  le,  co.  Gloucester,  148, 183,  192. 

llawe,  John,  849. 

Haweden,  co.  Northumberland,  340,  341. 

Hawkebath  [ca  Salop],  542. 

Hawkesborouffh,  Haokesbeigfa,   co.  Sussex, 
hundred  of,  188. 

Hawkesford,  Ralph,  490. 

Hawkhill,  Hankyll,  co.  Northumberland,  888. 

Hawkhurst,  Hawekeherst*  co.  Kent,  510. 

Hawkinge,  Hoking,  co.  Kent,  544. 

Hawkridge,  Haukeryge,  co.  Berks,  486. 

Hawkwell,  Hakwell,  co.  Essex,  104. 

,  Haukwell,  co.  Northumberland,  259. 

Hawkyn,  John,  507. 

Hawkyns,  Thomas,  prebendary  of  Tunworth, 
270. 

, ,  dean  uf  Stafford,  970. 

HawnceK,  Heory,  36. 

Hawys,  John,  416. 

Haxby,  Thomas,  77. 

Haxey,  co.  Lincoln,  484. 

Haxy,  Thomas,  canon  of  Southwell,  84. 

Hay  [oo.  Brecon],  48,  91,  824,  463,  464. 

Hay,  Henry,  174. 

,  Matthew,  81,  278,  564. 

,  WiUiam,  874. 

Haydon.    Set  Heydon. 

Haydock,  Heydok,  co.  Lancaster,  7,  9, 104. 

Haydok,  Gilbert,  173. 

, ,  prebendary  of  St.  Stephen's, 

Westminster,  589. 

,  parson  of  Meonstoke,  539. 

Hayerman.     See  Hayrman. 
Hayford,  Heyford,  Humphrey,  505,  506. 
Haygrove,  Heygrove,  co.  Southampton,  181. 
Haylake  Yoo,  co.  Somerset,  280. 
Hayles.    See  Hailes. 
Haynes,  Richard,  524,  540. 
Haynowe,  Thomas,  88,  208,  572. 
Hayns,  William,  313. 

Hayridge,  Harigge,  co.  Devon,  hundred  of,  70, 
122,  478. 

Haynnan,  Hareman,  Heynnan,  Thomas,  133, 
561. 

Haytfeld.     See  Hatfeld. 

Haythredesbury.    See  Heytesbury. 

Hayton,  Heyton,  Thomas,  85. 

Hayward,  Richard,  81, 173,  266,  470. 

,  Thomas,  74. 

Hazlewood,  Haaelwode,  co.  Derby,  81. 

Heaoham,  Hecham,  co.  Norfolk,  412. 

Headboume  Worthy,  Worthy  Mortymer,  co. 
Southampton,  131. 

Headcom,  Hedecrone,  co.  Kent,  516. 

Heade,  co.  Devon,  108. 

Headington,  Hedyngton,  eo.Oxfbrd,  105,  115, 
880,  480,  480. 

,  men  of,  830. 


GENERAL  INDEX. 


643 


HeacUees  Cross,  Hedley  Crosse,  co.  Worces- 
ter, 357. 

Healaugh,  Helagh,  Heley,  co.  York,  39,  198, 
454. 

,  priory  of,  454. 

Healey.    See  Helleia. 

Heathfield,  Hethfeld,  co.  Sussex,  251. 

Hebard,  co.  Dorset,  358. 

llebden,  William,  29. 

Hecham.     See  Heacham. 

Hechyngton.     See  HeightoD. 

Heckfield,  Hekfeld,  co.  Southampton,  511. 

Heckington,  Hekyngton,  co.  Lincolu,  104, 354. 

Hedale,  John,  30. 

Hedeerone.     See  Headcom. 

HediDgham,  co.  Ensez,  197. 

,  Castle,  Hongham  Castle,  co.  Espex, 

198. 

,  Sible,  Hengham  Sibille,  co.    Essex, 

198, 412. 

,  Vaux  by,  co.  Essex,  76, 197. 

Hedlam,  Thomas,  172. 

Hedlested,  co.  Northumburlaud,  341. 

Hedon  in  Holdemesse,  co.    York,    mayor, 

bailiffii  and  burgesses  of,  150. 
Hedyngdon.     See  Headington. 
Heende,  Walter,  1. 
Hefd,  John,  547. 
Hege,  Thomas,  216. 

,  Bllen  his  wife,  216. 

Heghmore,  co.  Northumberland,  841. 

Heglyngton  Fenne,  co.  Lincoln,  426. 

Heighes  [Exeter],  prebend  of,  122,  478. 

Heighington,  Hytyngton,  co.  Lincoln,  169. 

Heightisbeiy.    See  Heyteabury. 

Heighton,  Hechyngton,  co.  Sussex,  87. 

Hekelyng,  co.  York,  169. 

Hekyngton.    See  Heckington. 

Helagh.     See  Healaugh. 

Helay  by  Silkstone,  co.  York,  433. 

Hele.    See  Bosomzeal. 

Helesheia,  377. 

Heley.     See  HeaUngh. 

Helhonghton,  Helweton,  co.  Norfolk,  411. 

Helleia  (?  Healey),  392. 

He]IeMbury,Helly8bnry,co.  Cornwall,  123,344. 

Helleston.     See  Hehiton. 

Hellewell,  co.  Lincoln,  226. 

Hellowe.    See  Bellean. 

Helme.    See  Elme. 

Helmesey,  Hemelsey,  John,  815. 

Helmsley,  Hamelak,  co.  York,  465,  467. 

Heloughby,  Richard,  184. 

Helperby,  William,  115,  118,  218,  438. 

Helsington,  Helsyngton,  co.   Westmoreland, 

169. 

Heist  on  in  Kirrier,  Helleston,  co    Cornwall, 
211,488. 

burgesses  of.  557. 

Helwele.     See  Holywell. 

Helwell,  John,  282. 


Ilelwell,  William,  115. 

Helweton.    See  Helhoughton. 

Helys,  John,  490. 

HcmelHay,  Thomas,  259,  413. 

Hemelsey.    See  Helmesey. 

Hemingborough,  Hemyugburgh,  co.  York,  76. 

Hemington,  Hcmyngtou,    co.   Somerset,   70, 

119,  429. 
Hemming,  William,  502. 
Hemnales,  in  Theydou  Garuou,  eo.   Essex, 

116,356. 

Hempstede  Ferrers,  5. 

Hempstone,  Broad,  Hempston  Caiitlo  [co- 
Devon],  383. 

Hempstone,  Little,  Littelhempston,  Bartholo- 
mew, the  parish  chaplain  of,  201. 

rremyiigbui*gh.     See  Hemiu|;borough. 

Hemyngburgh,  John,  48,  80,  12C,  473,  532. 

Heuaff,  Oliver  eu,  527. 

Henawd.     See  Hainault. 

Henbur,  John,  62.  ^ 

Henclyff,  Laurence,  501. 

Henpote.     See  Hengoed. 

Hende,  Gresilda,  64,  379,  444. 

,  John,  64,  444. 

,  the  younger,  255. 

Hendelee,  William,  47. 

Hendeley.     See  Henley. 

Hendred,  East,  Esthenrith  [co.  Berks],  73. 

Hengham.     See  Hedingham. 

Hengham,  Kalph  de,  justice  of  the  Bench, 
549. 

Hengoed,  Hencote  [co.  Salop],  '  Shirrief 
Modowe  *  by,  67. 

Hengston.     See  Hinxton. 

Heiilakiden,  Robert,  362. 

Henley,  290. 

Henley,  co.  Kent,  548. 

Henley,   Hendeley  on  le   Heth,  co.  Surrey, 

230,  448. 
Henley-on-Thames,  CO.  Oxford,  315. 

Henley,    Nicholas,    vicar    of  Mutfbrd    and 

Barnby,  256. 
Henly,  South,  Sathenley  [co.  Surrey],  90. 
Hennale,  Thomas,  23. 
Hennam,  Henham,  82. 
Hennyngburgh,  John,  281. 
Henold,  co.  Essex,  hermitage  of,  149. 
Henry  L  king  of  EngUuid,  41,  136,  160,  lo7, 

171,  876-378,  402,  408,  494,  499. 

,  letters  patent  of,  250,  392. 

charters  of,  286,  238,  240,  243,  241, 

246,  250,  251,  299,  307,  811,  375,  893, 

895,  896,  408-409,  495,  496,  498,  557. 

Henry  IL  79,  125,  127,  269,  472. 

,  letters  patent  of,  137,  160,  230,  205, 

306,  892,  405. 

charters  of,  41,  58,61,  68,  136,  139, 

148,  150,  157,  159-161,  168,  171,  190, 
285,  240-247,  249,  251,  252,  296,  305- 
309,  313,  840,  341,  375,  376, 394-396. 
398-401,  405,  407-409,  494,  496-499, 
556-558. 

S  S   2 


GI4 


GENERAL  INDEX. 


Henry  III.  113,  128,  134,  157,  260,  267,  286, 
385,  346,384,  432,  463,  .%24. 

,  roll  0^446. 

,  letters  patent  of,  49,  146,  156,   157> 

16o,  166,  236,  239,  244,  247,  265,  271, 

308,  312,333,  400,  401,405,  499,  558. 

,  charters  of,  59,  78,  79,  136,  139,  145, 

146,  153,  156-162,  165-168,  171,  190, 
235,  i:36,  238-246,  24S-252,  266,  285» 
296,  299,  305,  307-309,  311,  313,  333, 
337,  340,  892-401,  404-409,  446,  494, 
495,  497-499,  523,  527,  531,  538,  539, 
555-558. 

Henry  IV.  76,  78,  107,  127,  138,  158.  195, 
220,  222,  267,  286,  328,  346,  384,  446, 
448-4.50,  524. 

,  letters  patent  of,  82,  128,  136,  136, 

141,  150,  162-164,  229,  287,  240,  241, 
24t>,  271,  306,  309,  31 1,  338,  339,  355, 
378,  427,  463,  497,  523,  538,  555,  557, 
558. 

charters  of,  137,  171,  189,  243,  245, 

246^49,  271, 305,  312,  499,  558. 

Henry  V.  76,  78,  97,  98,  110,  127,  164,  267, 
286,  29  J,  360,  405,  480,  513,  524. 

,  letters  patent  of,  82,   166,  237,241, 

243,  306,  326,  378,  892,  400,  496,  537, 
539,  557. 

,  charters  of,  150,  160,240,  243,  245, 

309,  311,499. 

....• ,  letters    patent  of,  when   prince  of 

Wales,  311. 

Henry  VI.  the  late  king,  7,  19,  22,28,  31,33, 
84, 36,  39,  44,  53,  55,  60,  63, 66,  67,  70, 

73,  76,  78,  80,  82,  88-90,  93,  94,  97, 
101,  103,  111,  114,  115,  117,  120,  127, 
182,  134,  138,  139,  148,  153,  176,  179, 
180,  185,  187,  188,  196,  197,  200,  201, 
205,  212,  217,  280,  231,  254,  261,  267, 
268,  272,  273,  276,  280,  286-2S8,  292, 
295,  297,  298,  800,  317,  335,  337-339, 
354,  860,  361,  366,  368,  382,  383,  388, 
411,  412,  415,  416,  425,  431,  438,  440, 
449,  459,  462,  464,  486,  509,  518,  519, 
524,  535,  536,  .542,  555. 

,  letters  patent  of,  6,  8,  39,  46,  57,  63, 

74,  81,  82,  95,  103,  107,  109,  125,  128, 
150,  156,  161,  163,  168,  170,  189,  190, 
194,  229,  230,  236,  239,  240,  242-244, 
246,  248,  249,  265,  274,  284,  290,  291, 
305,  306,  309,  311,  326,  354,  863,  378, 
392,  400,  427,  454,  463,  495,  496,  499, 
523,  537,  551,  555,  557,  558. 

,  charters  of,  155,  171,208,  236,  237, 

246,  248,  307,  309,  473,  497,  558 

,  letters  of  safe-conduct  of,  36,  65,  68, 

201. 

,  council  of,  275. 

,  household  of,  289,  380,  418,  449. 

, ,  chaplain  of.     See  Clampay n. 

,  capture  of,  460. 

Henry,  emperor  of  Genuany,  son  in  Iutt  of 
king  Henry  I.  403,  408. 

Henry,  duke  of  Normandy  and  Aquitaineand 
count  of  Anjou,  charter  of,  61. 

lk"iry,  Thomas  sou  of,  83. 

Henry  ap  Griffith,  451. 


Heuster,  Humphrey,  50.i. 
Henton.     See  Hiiitou. 
Hcnton,  John,  314. 

, ,  vicar  of  Tenterden,  S58. 

, ,  parson  of  Ewhorst,  353. 

,  John  de,  prior  of  Sixhill,  196. 

Henwick,  Henwyk,  co.  Bedford,  417,  503. 
Heppey,  William,  528. 
Hettcrd,  William,  216. 
Herbert,  Geoffrey,  882. 

Gilbert,  36. 

,  John,  30,  99. 

,  the  king's  attorney,  69. 

,  Bichaid,77,  100,  280,  355,  372. 

,  Thomas,  8,  80,  34,  38,  65,  99,  100, 

151,  1»1,  422,  441,564. 

, ,  sheriff  of  Somerset,  211. 

,  tlie  elder,  15,   197,  424,  523, 

528. 

,  Thomas,  the  younger,  30. 

,  Walter,  65. 

,  Wiliam,  esquire,  38,  42,   65,  77,  327. 

425,514,533. 

, ,  escheator  in  the  county  of  Car- 
narvon, 340. 

, of  Herbert,  knight,  30,  34,  36, 

38,  43,  45,  65,  98-100,  114,  119,  132, 
211,  268,  280,  286,  339,  355,  366,  425, 
427,431,  529,538,564. 

,    ,    justice    and    chamberlain  of 

South  Wales,  7,  526. 
,  chief  justice  of  hCerioneth,  271, 

352. 
Herbotell.     See  Harebotell. 
Hercy,  Hugh,  543,  544. 

,  Elizabeth  his  wife,  543,  544. 

,  Gervase,  543. 

Herde,  William,  508. 
Herdegrey,  Henry,  411. 
Herebaudou.     See  Harbledawn. 
Hcrebotell.    See  Harbottle. 
Hereford,  co.  Huntingdon,  156. 

,  CO.  Norfolk,  111,  200,  458. 

,  CO.  Hereford,  26,  77,  98,  194,  212, 

305,  372,  445. 

,  mayor  and  citizens  of,  305. 

,  charter  dated  at,  495. 

....,  earlof.     iSee  Bohun. 

,  Roger,  earl  of,  403. 

,  diocese  of,  60,  93,  180,  187,  192,  305, 

450. 

,  bishop  of.         See    Stanbury ;    Ege- 

blaunch. 

,  county  of,  30,  36,  42,  47,  51,  65,  77, 

91,  98,  99,  11;,  133,  205.  426,  539, 
552. 

, sheriff  of,  65,  98,  100. 

And  see  Skull. 

, ,  escheator  in,  9,  451. 

And  see  Brugge. 

...,  outlawries  in,  411, 508,  .504. 
...,  *  le  haywode '  in,  27,  886. 


■ > 

■•...., 


GENERAL  INDEX. 


645 


HtTefun),  CO.,  cotumi^ttians  of  the   poacu  in, 
.064. 

Ueregerd,  co.  Cornwall,  78, 

Herewyche.     See  Harwieh. 

Herford,  Thomas,  57. 

Heriettesham.    See  Harritstsliani. 

Herits,  Leo  de,  393. 

Herleford.    See  Harleyford. 

Herlewyn.    See  Harlewjn. 

Herlyngdon.    See  Harlington. 

Herman,  John,  256. 

,  William,  r/2,  254. 

Heroes,  William,  194,  266. 

Hemis,  K.  son  of,  496. 

Heron,  John,  of  Forde,  29,  461. 

,  llogcr,  29. 

Herowdon.    See  Harrowdou. 

Herrys,  Richard,  182. 

Hersham,  6. 

Herst.     See  Hurst. 

Hersthall,  co.  Kent,  88,  464,  548. 

Herston.    See  Harston. 

H«irt,  John,  203,  209,  282,  347,  418,  429. 

,  Walter,  429,  493. 

Hert,  le,  Lyhert,  Walter,  hishop  of  Norwich 
[1446-1472],  173,  200,  436,  568,  573. 

Herte,  Cleoffrey,  264. 

Herteshonie,  William,  559. 

Hertford,  455, 456,  526. 

,  letters  patent  dated  at,  208. 

..........  charters  dated  at,  171,  305. 

,  earl  of.     See  Clare. 

,  county  of,  18,  27,  32,  33,  48,   107, 

111,  127,  129,  131,  133,  143,  168,  183, 
189,  192,  228,  261, 2Z8,  302,  363,  391. 

, ,  sherifF  of,  302,  479,  430. 

And  see  Ree ;  Filol ;  Rayuforth. 

,   ,  escheator    in,   224,  291,  339, 

345,  880. 

And  see  Aspall ;  Clovile. 

, ,  outlawries  in,  172,   255,  413, 

417,502,506,508,545. 

,...,  .......  justices  of  the  peace  in,  456. 

,  ,    commissions    of    the    peace 

in,  565. 

HerthyU.    See  Harthill. 

Hertiland.    See  Uartland. 

Hertilbury     See  Hartleburv. 

Hert^ssme,  Lewis,  303. 

Hertley,  Thomas,  138. 

Hertley  Waspaill.     See  Hartley  Westimll. 

Hertwell,  John,  504. 

,  Thomas,  259. 

Hertylburie.    See  Hartlebury. 
Hertylpole,  John,  204. 
Herrey,  Nicholas,  364,  365,  368. 
Herveys.     See  Harvey s. 
Hervy,  John,  317. 

,  Thomas,  389,411. 

,  William,  417. 

Heryng,  Robert,  .10,  135. 


Ucryot,  Juliii,  176. 

,  Richard,  176. 

Heryson,  Rdmund,  492. 
Hesewell,  John,  mayor  of  Cambridge,  56 1 . 
Hesketh,  Thomas,  505. 

Hessle,  Hesill,  Hessyl,  co.  York,  86,  237,  349, 
367. 

Hestercombe,  Hastercotnbe,  co.  Somerset,  416. 

Heston,  co.  Middlesex,  97,  144. 

Heth,  Thomas,  490, 572. 

Hethcote,  Ralph,  dean  of  Tettcnhall,  378. 

,  Richard,  .32. 

Hethorpe.     See  E^'thorpe. 

Heton,  John,  324. 

■ ,  William,  286. 

Heugh.     Sec  Hough. 

Hevenyngharo,  Enyngham,  John,  232,573. 

Hevingham,  Hevyngham,  co.   Norfolk,   172, 
510 

HcYv,  John,  33. 

Hewester,  Humphrey,  280,  528. 

Hewet,  Walter,  273. 

ftewle  a  Cadeyre,  co.  Monmouth,  425. 

Hewle,  David  ap  Jevan,  co.  Monmouth,  425. 

Hewle  Kenyyn  Voeil,  co.  Monmouth,  425. 

Hewlyn,  W^illiam,  413. 

He  worth,  Robert  de,  35. 

Uewyk,  John,  105,  538,  553. 

Hexham,  525. 

Hcxtildeshamshin»,  525. 

Heyo,  men  of,  79. 

lleyate,  Jamen,  201. 

Robert,  201. 

Heybernes,  co.  Warwic!:,  145. 

Heyiioke,  John,  282. 

Heydok.     See  Haydok. 

Hey  don  Mount,   Eydon   Mountc,  co.  Essei, 
508. 

Heydon,  Haydou,  Henry,  471. 

,  John,  182,266,471. 

Heyford.     See  Hajford. 

Heygrove.     See  Haygrove. 

Heyman,  Richard,  prebendary  of  Salisbury, 
19. 

, prebendary  of  Westminster,  19. 

ileynde,  Thomas,  410. 

Hej'iies,  Heynys,  Willmm,  17',  176. 

,  Thomas,  175. 

John,  503. 

Heyno.     See  Hayoowe. 

Heyrefeld,  Richftfd,  445. 

Heyrou,  Richard,  275,  276. 

Heyrman.     See  Hayrman. 

Heysaunt,  Patrick,  6. 

Heysham,  Hyeaham,  co.  Lancaster,  145. 

Heytesburj,  Heightisbery,  co.  Wilts,  190,364, 
368. 

lord  of.    See  llungerford. 

Hey  ton.    See  Haytoiu 

llcywode,  Thomas,  dean  of  Lichfield,  141. 


Q5Mi^ 


,.«j-> 


646 


GENERAL  INDEX. 


Heywood,  Richard,  505. 
Hiagc,  Bartelon  de  le,  203. 
Hicchen,  Johu,  255. 
Hicch3'n.     .Sec  Hitchin. 
Hida,  JeliaD,  412. 
Hier,  Henry,  303. 
Hiett.     .See  Hyett. 
Hiewortk.     See  Highwortli. 
Higford,  John,  450,  574. 

, ,    the     younger,    sheriff    of 

Warwick.  472. 

,  Thomas,  450,  499,  491,  574. 

And  see  Hugford. 

Higham,  co.  Buckingham,  187. 

,  CO.  Devon,  265. 

,  CO.  Kent,  256. 

And  see  Lillecharch. 

,  CO.  Suffolk,  508. 

hy  Norwich,  co.  Norfolk,  485. 

Iligham,  John,  chief  remembrancer  of  the 
exchequer  of  Ireland,  76. 

,  Kichard,  280. 

,  Thomas,  301. 

, ,  the  younger,  348,  452,  573. 

Highbecch,  Beche  [co.  Essex],  228. 

Highhead,  co.  Cumberland,  253. 

High  Wood,  Ywode,  co.  Sussex,  465, 648. 

Highworth,  Hieworth,  co.  Wilts,  131. 

....;....,  hundred  of,  131. 

Hikkesson,  Robert,  221. 

Hiklyng,  Robert,  360. 

Hilbilworth.     See  Hilborough. 

Hilborough,  Hilbilworth,  co.  Norfolk,  hospital 
of,  359. 

, ,  Richard  Bowyer,  warden  of, 

359. 

Hilcrombe.     .See  Hillcrome. 

II  ildersham,  Thomas,  2. 

Hildesdon.     See  Hillesden. 

Hill,  HUle,  Hyll,  John,  210,  233,  234,  448. 

,  John  de,  343. 

,  Laurence,  75. 

,  Richard,  parson  of  Fordingbridge,  77. 

,  Robert,  371. 

,  Thomas,  the  younger,  257. 

,  William,  50, 181,  257. 

Hillard,  Robert,  231. 
Hillcrome,  Hilcrombe,  co.  Worcester,  67. 
Hille,  CO.  Devon,  265. 
Hilleresdou,  Hylresdon,  Andrew,  37,  319. 
Hilles,  Thomas,  217. 

Hillcsclen,  Uillesdon,  Hildesdon,  co.    Buck- 
ingham, 70,  118,  153,486. 
Hilliard,  Hylyard,  Robert,  31,66,  349,  576. 
Hillyng,  Ralph,  254. 
Hilton,  Hylton,  co.  Huntingdon,  212. 

CO.  Stafford,  101. 

Hiltonland,  co.  Westmoreland,  169. 
Hilton,  George,  94. 

,  Henry,  32. 

,  Thomas,  490. 


Hinckley,  Hynkeley,  258. 

,co.  Leicester,  alien  priory  of,  161. 

Hinton,    HentoD,    Hynton,    co.  Cambridge, 

97,  98,  144,  212. 

,  Downefeld  of,  103. 

,00.  Somerset,  priory  of,  138. 

,  prior  and  convent  of,  127, 156. 

,  William  Halherlee,  prior  of,  128. 

,  WilUam  Marchall,  prior  of,  128. 

,  CO.  Southampton,  423. 

,  CO.  Wilts,  507. 

,  [CO.  Wilts],  440. 

Hinxton,  Hengston,  co.  Cambridge,  193. 

Hippurth,  Edmund,  253. 

Hirnyng,  Thomas,  503. 

Hitchin,    Huchen,    Hicchyn,    co.    Hertford, 

331,255. 
Hobbes,  Reginald,  315. 

,  Alice  his  wife,  315. 

.Robert,  552. 

Hobbys,  Richard,  419. 

,  Master  William,  the  king's  surgeon , 

182. 
Hoberd,  Hubberd,  James,  348,  452,  678. 

Richard,  503. 

Hoborough,  Hobury,  co.  Kent,  264. 
Hobson,  John,  302. 

Richard,  508. 

Hoby,  John,  438. 

Hochekynsou,  WilUam,  32. 

Hockley,  Hokley,  co.  Essex,  35. 

Hoddesdon,  co.  Hertford,  154. 

Hoddesole,  William,  318. 

Hoddys.  WiUiam,  274. 

Hodeh^dus,  relation  of  Sebby,  king  of  the 

East  Saxons,  895. 
Hodelston.    See  Hudleston. 

Hodlestone,  co.  York,  38[8. 

Hodnet,  Hodnette  [co.  Salop],  55. 

Hodolston.     See  Hudleston. 

Hody,  Houdye,  Alexander,  31,  32,  192. 

Hodynges,  John,  195. 

Hoell.     -See  Hale. 

Hoff,  CO.  Westmoreland,  140,  534. 

Hogekyn,  John,  31. 
Hogekyns,  John,  420. 
Hogelowe,  co.  Gloucester,  533. 
Hogeson,  Robert,  262. 
Hogesion,  in  Ireland,  117. 
Hoggeford.     .See  Hugford. 
Hoggeson,  William,  492. 
Hoggeston,  co.  Buckingham,  121. 
Hoggys,  John,  2. 

,  Stephen,  2,  3. 

Hoghton  by  Walsynhan,  co.  Norfolk,  285. 

Hoghton,  John,  126. 

Hokan,  Nicholas,  vicar  of  Acton,  co.  Suffolk, 

255. 
Hoke.     See  Stafford. 
Hokehatte,  co.  Devon,  372. 


GENERAL  INDEX. 


647 


Hokelesoote.    See  Hogglesoote. 
Hokemortjmer,  oo.  Boathampton,  181. 
Hokeslowe.    See  Huxloe. 
Hoking.    See  Hawkinge. 
Hokley.    See  Hockley. 

Hoke,  John,  yicar  of  Moroton,  co.  Emez, 

291. 
Holand.    See  Holland. 
Holand,  Roben,  prior  of  Spalding,  242. 

,  Thomas,  4. 

., , ,  Elizabeth  hin  wife,  4. 

,  William,  102. 

Holandswayne.    See  Hoyland  Swaine. 
Holbeach,  Holbeche,  oo.  Lfnoolc,  140,  534. 
Holbeeh,  Roger,  174. 
Holbenham.    See  Benham  Hoe. 
HolbooghtOD.    See  Halberton. 
Holcombe,  Holecombe,  co.  Devon,  372. 
Holcot,  Hulcot,  John,  479. 

,  Alice  his  wife,  479. 

Holcote,  CO.  Northampton,  869. 
Holdehamp,  co.  Devon,  119,  429. 
Holdenshire.   ^See  Howdenshire. 
Holder,  Walter,  201,  882. 

Holdemesse,    co.    York,  24,  225,  226,  348, 
849,  454. 

Holdesworthy.    See  Holsworthy. 

Holdewill,  co.  Devon,  265. 

Holdsworthy.    See  Holsworthy. 

Holdych,  Richard,  warden  of  the  hospital  of 
S.6.  Giles  and  Antony  by  Wilton,  458. 

Hole.    See  Hale. 

Holford  [co.  Gloucester],  hundred  of,  53, 
221,  268. 

Holford,  Thomas,  98,  575. 

Holgate,  Nicholas,  206. 

Holgill.     See  Crakenthorp. 

Holgot,  Thomas,  552. 

Holgrave,  John,  476. 

Holingworth,  James,  541. 

Hollwode,  CO.  Cornwall,  108. 

Holkham,  co.  Norfolk,  436. 

HoUand,  187,  231,  517. 

Holland,  Holand,  co.  Essex,  145. 

,  Great,  co.  Essex,  3,  87. 

,  CO.  Lincoln,  169. 

Fen,  Holand  Fenues,  co.    Lincoln, 

169. 

Holland,  Henry,  duke  of  Exeter,  32,  35,  39, 
67,  82,  104,  114,  188,  U3,  193,  287, 
286,  366,  425,  486. 

,  Anne  his  wife,  duchera  of  Exeter,  the 

king's  sister,  7,  9,   104,  140,  193,  265, 
324,  429,  440,486,  513,  533. 

,  John,  duke  of  Exeter,  237. 

Holle,  William,  535,  542,  543. 

Hoilington,  Holyngton,  co.  Sussex,  248. 

Holm,  Daniel,  abbot  of,  167. 

Holman,  John,  89. 

Holme,  CO.  Nottingham,  84. 

in  Kendell,  oo.  Westmoreland,  445, 46 1 . 


Holme  in  Spaldyngmore,  oo.  York,  415. 
Holme,  Brian,  31. 

,  John,  134,  192,  281,  576. 

,  ,  baron  of  the  Exchequer,  63, 

214,576. 

,  Oliver,  28,31. 

,  Thomas,  509. 

,  Cristiana  his  wife,  509. 

Holmefirth,  HolmeAryth,  co.  York,  26,  146. 

Holoughton.     See  Hallaton. 

Holsworthy,  Holdesworthy,  co^  Devon,  7,  10, 

104,  382,  389,  501. 
Holt,  CO  Norfolk,  87,  285. 
Holt,  Alexander,  300. 

,  Katharine  his  wife,  300. 

,  Edmund,  439. 

,  Walter,  545. 

,  William,  276,  609. 

llolthorpe,  Henry,  496,  519. 

Holton,  Houton,  Howton,  co.  Lincoln,  169, 

224. 
,  Beckering,  Howton  by  Bekeryng,  co. 

Lincoln,  471,  544. 
Holymore,  Richard,  319. 
Holynherst  Tyknale,  co.  Derby,  422. 
Holywell,  Haliwell,  Helwele,  co.  Lincoln,  80, 

540. 

,00.  Flint,  437. 

Homcastell,  co.  Worcester,  434,  456. 

Homme,  John,  318. 

Honden.    See  Hundon. 

Hone,  John,  317. 

Honewton.    See  Honnington. 

Honewod,  John,  280. 

Honeworth,  co.  Norfolk,  4. 

Honflenr,  Hunflete,  in  Normandy,  457. 

Hongham.    See  Hedingham. 

Honingham,    Hooyngham,    Honyngton    [co. 
Norfolk],  117,  218. 

Honiton,  Honjrton,  co.  Devon,  211,  257. 

Honnington,  Honeweton,  co.  Suffolk,  547. 

Hony,  John,  418. 

Honyngton.    See  Honingham. 

Honyngton,  Thomas,  585. 

Hoo,  CO.  Sussex,  76. 

Hoo,  Richard,  258. 

Thomas,  138, 141,  205,  231,  265,  429, 

493,  494. 

Hoorde,  Horde,  Hourde,  John,  18,  278,  347. 

,  Thomas,  98,  570. 

William,  36,  43,  202,  204,  278,  452, 

483,  488. 

Hoom.    See  Home. 

Hope,  CO.  Flint,  7,  9,  104. 

,  CO.  Worcester,  510. 

Hope,  Thomas,  29. 

Hoper,  William,  416. 

Hopemcwode,  co.  Devon,  223. 

Hoperton,  John,  835. 

Hopesdale,  co.  Flint,  7,  9,  104.  ' 

Hopkyn  ap  Rees  ap  Hopkyn,  426. 


t)48 


GENE  UAL  INDEX. 


Hopton,  Edward,  510. 

,  JohD,  411,  536,57a. 

,  William,  577. 

, ,  sheriff  of  Norfolk,  526. 

Hopton  Wafers,  Warfurreshoptun  bj  Clebury, 
CO.  Salop,  174. 

Hopwode,  James,  102, 562. 

Horde.     See  Hurde. 

Hord.     See  Hoorde. 

Hore,  Geoffrey,  328. 

,  John,  102. 

,  Thomas,  8. 

Horell,  Johii,  507. 

Horewode,  John,  318. 

Horkstow,  Harkstowe,  co.  Lincoln,  257. 

Hormead,  Hormade,  Little,  oo.  Hertford,  162. 

Horn.    See  Home. 

Horncastell,  Richard,  abbot  of  Bardncy,  524. 

Homcastle,  Hornecastre,  co.  Lincoln,  196. 

HomdoD,  Hornedon,  co.  Essex,  35. 

Homdwere  bj  Windsor  Castle,  272,  428. 

Home,  Hora^  Houru,  James,  228. 

,  Joan,  327. 

,  John,  545. 

,  Robert,  7,  76,516. 

, ,  Isabel  his  wife,  7. 

,  Thomas,  185. 

,  William,  parson  of  Hinton,  423. 

, ,  parson  of  Bisley,  423. 

Homington,  Homyngton,  co.  York,  149,  131. 

Horpoll.     See  Harpole. 

Horridge,  Horigge,  co.  Devon,  410. 

Horsby,  John,  172. 

Horsemonden,  co.  Kent,  429,  544. 

Horsenden,  co.   Buckingham,  letters   patent 
dated,  47. 

Horsey,  oo.  Somerset,  226. 

Horsford,  co.  Norfolk,  510. 

Horsford,  Robert,  420. 

Horsham  St.  Faith,  co.  Norfolk,  prior  and 
monks  of,  78. 

,  prior  of,  175. 

Horftley,co.  Derby,  134,  220. 

Horsley,  Alan,  253,  256,  415. 

,  Joan  his  wife,  415. 

John,  417. 

Horstead,  Horstede,  co.   Norfolk,  priory  of, 

74. 
Horsted,  Little,    Litelhorsted,    co.    Sussex, 

585. 

Horston,  co.  Derby,  226,  226.  387. 

Horton,  co.  Devon,  265. 

Horwood,  Horewode,  Great,  co.  Buckingham, 
121. 

Little,  CO.  Buckingham,  121. 

Hoselworthy.    See  Holsworthy. 

Host,  Reginald,  500. 

Hotefeld.     See  Hoth  field. 

Hoth,  CO.  Salop,  443. 

Hothfield,  Hotefeld,  co.  Kent,  83,  87, 191, 292. 


Hotham,  John,  78. 

, ,  esquire,  27,  78. 

, ,  knight,  27,78. 

Hotham,  John  de,  bishop  of    £ljr»    [1316- 
1337],  249,  397. 

Hotoft.     See  Huttoft. 
Hotofte,  Richard,  66, 570. 
Hoton.     See  Hutton 
Hoton,  Richard,  479. 

,  Robert,  288. 

William,  541. 

Hotonrofe.     See  Hatcon  Roof. 
Hoadye.     See  Hody. 

Hough,  Heogh,  in  Stanfordham,  co.  Northum- 
berland, 259,  547. 

Hougham,  Hugham,  co.  Kent,  330. 

Houghton,  Great,  co.  Northampton,  111,  431. 

,  Hanging,  CO.  Northampton,  11 1^  431. 

,  by  Harple,  co.  Norfolk,  421. 

,  Hoghton,  CO.  Northumberland,  199. 

,  Long,    Langhoughton,    co.     North- 
umberland, 840. 

Regis,  Houstone  [co.  Bedford],  94. 

Houghton,  John,  479. 

,  Elizabeth,  479. 

,  Richard,  383. 

,  Robert,  82. 

Hounds,  22,  127,  334. 

Hounslow,   Houndeslowe    [co.    Middlesex], 

prior  and   convent  of   Holy    Trinity, 

222. 

Hoorde.    See  Hoorde. 

House.     See  Howse. 

Household,  the,  C,  14,  25,  117,  201,  202,  217, 
219,  224,  227,  268,  264,  270,  294,  301, 
331,  442,  456,  519. 

.  ,  steward  of,  8,  275. 

And  see  Tiptoft. 

,  treasurer  of,  6, 49,  117,  193,  194,  201, 

202,  268,  269,  270,  828,  361,  558. 

And  see  Fogge. 

,  controller  of.     See  Scotte. 

,   esquires  of,  10,  92,   123-126,   212, 

261,  327,  344,  861,  523,  524. 

,  yeomen  of,  128. 

,  chapel  of,  117,  457. 

,  chaplain  of.     See  Pennant. 

,  coinage  of,  335. 

,  clerk  of  the  market  of,  275. 

And  see  Debenham. 

,  marshals  of,  200,  275. 

,  coroner  of  the  marshalsea  of,  57. 

,  buyers  of,  193,   194,  263,  269,  323, 

361,380,  456. 

,  porters  of,  148,  293,  539. 

,  sergeant  avener  of,  12. 

,  avery  of,  328. 

,  le  'picherhous*  of,  143. 

. .,  scullery  of,  440. 

,  vesti^  of,  526. 

,  bakerv  of,  338,  353. 


GENERAL  INDEX. 


G49 


Household,  butlery  of,  433. 

,  cdlftr  of,  291. 

,  oven  of,  553. 

Uousom,  William,  107. 

Hoastone.    See  Hoaghion. 

HoDthe.     See  Howth, 

Houton.     See  HoltoD. 

Ho  veil,  John,  178. 

How,  Howe,  John,  264,  506. 

Howard,  Haward,  John,  esquire,  28. 

> .knight,  10,  27,  111,  119,  124, 

187,  200,  203,  277,  828,  347,  848,  390, 
458,  527,  553,  559,  568,  573. 

,  Margaret  his  wife,  527. 

Howden,  co.  York,  76,  507. 

Howdenshire,  HoldenBhire,  co.  York,  451. 

Howell,  John,  174. 

,  William,  54,  804. 

Howell,  Robert  ap,  37. 

Uowesom.    See  Howsham. 

Howeth.     See  Howth. 

Hows,  Richard,  28. 

,  Thomas,  96. 

Howse,  Peter,  204. 

»  ,  sheriff  of  Bedford  andBncli- 

ingham,  489. 

f  William,  third  prior  of  Montacute. 

107. 

Howsham,  Howesom,  Howsom,  co.  York,  39, 

86,  87,  867. 

Howsom.    See  Howsham. 

Howth,  Honthe.     See  SejntlaurcDcc. 

Howton,  CO.  Hereford,  872. 

And  see  Helton. 

Howyke,  co.  Northumberland,  388. 

Hozne,  Hoxon,  co.  Suffolk,  260. 

Holland  Swaine,   Holandswajne,  co.   York, 
433. 

Hubberd.    See  Hoberd. 
Hubert  the  chamberlain  (of  Stephen),  404. 
Huchen.    See  Hitchin. 
Huchyn,  John,  254. 
Huddesfelde,  WUliam,  489. 
Hndle»ton,  Hodelston,  Hudelston,  Hnddelston, 
Hodilston,  Hadylston,  John,  34,  62,66, 

87,  123,  132,  151,  154,  266,  358,  382, 
492,  561,  575. 

,  Elisabeth  his  wife,  382. 

,  Henrj,  569. 

Richard,  492'. 

Hud  J,  Richard,  escheator  in  the  county  of 
Devon,  61. 

Huet,  Huett,  Robert,  201,  337,  483,  516. 

,  Mary,  337,  483,  516. 

John,  211. 

Hugford,  Huggcford,  Hoggeford,  John,  202, 
564. 

Thomas,  66,  202,  889. 

William,  67,  520.  570. 

And  see  Higford. 

Hugglescote,  Hokelescote,  co.  lieicester,  104, 
.354. 


Hugh,  Uichurd,  515. 
ilugliam.     Sep  Hoii/Trliam. 
Huish,  CO.  Devon,  265. 

Huish,  Huysshe  by  Heybrigge,  co.  Somerset, 
286, 866.  ' 

Hulcot.     See  Holcot 

Hull,  185. 

And  see  Kingston-on-HulL 
Hull  water,  237. 

Hull  by  Alnwick,  co.  Northumberland,  197. 
Hulle  by  Iwerne  Minster  [co.  Dorset],  70. 
Hullavington,  co.  Wilts,  priory  of,  78. 
HuUe,  Roger,  204. 
,  Thomas,  507. 

Hulmc,    CO.   Norfolk,  St.  Benett,  abbot  nnd 
convent  of,  555. 

,  Simon,  abbot  of,  555. 

,  William,  abbot  of,  556. 

Huls,  Andrew,  283,  284,  865. 

,  Hugh,  56. 

,  Roger,  432. 

Hulyn,  William,  413,  478,  530. 

Humbcr  river,  223,  237. 

Humberston,  Humbrestan,  cu.  Lincoln,  41. 

Humez,  Richard  de,  171,  306,  494. 

Humphrey,    duke    of     Gloucester,    earl    of 

Pembroke     and    great    chamberlain 

of  England,  45,  46,  80,  109,  149,  209, 

310,434,481,482. 

f  letters  patent  of,  94,  136. 

Hunden,  John,  374. 

,  William,  374. 

Hunden,  Honden,  co.  Suffolk,  131. 
Hunflete.    See  Houfleur. 
Hungerford  Farley,  co.  Somerset,  212,  214. 
Hungerford  Manor,  co.  Oxford,  363. 
Hiuigeribrd,  Arnold,  865. 

»  Edmund,  98,  283,  284,  865,  536,  375. 

,  Robert,  lord  Hungerford  ofHeytes- 

bury  and  Hametetch,  182,   288,  284. 

868-366,368.  »         .  ,       *, 

» »  Margaret  his  wife,   101,  283, 

284,  327.  363,  864,  366,  868. 

»    Robert,    lord    of  Hungerfoid  and 

Moleyns,  101,  181,  182,  190,  208,  228. 
283,  284,  801,  833.  847,  860,  863-866 
868,  389,  517. 

Eleanor  his  wife,  181,517. 

Thomas,  864,  365. 

» Anne  his  wife,  864,  865. 

»  Walter,  esquire,  327,423. 

Walter,  lord,  45,  128. 

» »  Ute  treasurer  of  the  Exchequer, 

Hunmanby,  Hundmanby,  co.  York,  39.   198, 
455. 

HunspiU  Marise.     See  HuntspiU  Marth. 
Hunt,  John,  506. 

.Robert,  414. 

,  Thomas,  470. 

»  Walter,  rector  of  Llannynnys,  51. 

Hunte,  Edward,  263. 


650 


GENERAL  INDEX. 


Hunte,  Hugh,  S90. 

,  Richard,  280,448,  523. 

HuDtebeare,  co.  Deyon,  119,  4S9. 
Hunter,  John,  492. 
Huntingdon,  194. 

,  oo.  Huntingdon,  353,  445,  46 1 . 

,  honour  of,  353,  445,  481. 

,  prior  and  convent  of,  156. 

,  Henry,  prior  of,  156. 

,  Ito,  prior  of,  156. 

,  hospital  of  St.  Margaret  by,  1 18. 

county  of,  18,  28,  111,  183,  150,  191, 

381,282,  353,  391,  408,  440,  445,  466, 

470,  472,  481,  494. 

, ,  sheriff  of,  480,  481. 

, ,  escheator  in,  224,  354,  380. 

, I  outlawries  in,  91,  175,  815. 

) ,  coDimissions  of  the  peace  in, 

565. 

Huntington,  Huntyngdon   [co.  Hereford],  43, 
91,324,468,464. 

Huntley,  co.  Gloucester,  268. 

Huntley,  Hnnteley,  Hugh,  30, 38,  65, 99,  451 . 

Huntspill  Marsh,  Hunspill  Marise,  co.  Somer- 
set, 86,  226,  366.  888. 
Hiutyngfeldt  co.  Kent,  269. 
Huntyngdon,  Thomas,  552. 
Hurde.    See  Hoorde. 
Hurdeweke,  Nicholas,  545. 
Hurelook,  Hugh,  35. 
Hurley,  John,  97. 
Hume,  Roger  atte,  547. 
Hurry,  WilUam,  421. 
Hurst,  Kyngeshurst,  co.  Warwick,  531. 

,  Her8t,co.  Wilts,  389,  445. 

Hurworth  on  Tees,  co.  Durham,  144. 
Husee,  Huse,  Husey,  Husy,  John,  4S9. 

,  Martin,  847. 

,  Nicholas,  138,  429,  493,  528. 

,  Thomas,  98,  101,  416,563. 

,  .^....,  the  elder,  154. 

, ,  the  younger,  489. 

,  William,  31,  182,  281,  801,  313, 567. 

Hutte,  John,  vicar  of  St.  John,  Isle  of  Thanet, 
CO.  Kent,  825,  332. 

, ,Ticarof  Minster,  Isle  of  Thanet, 

CO.  Kent,  325,  332. 

Huttoft,  Hotoft,  Hyptoft,  co.  linooln,  41, 169, 
457. 

Hutton,  Hoton,  oo.  York,  141,  848,  361,  376, 
377. 

,  CO.  Westmoreland,  169. 

Hutton    Roof,    Hotonruff,   co.  Cumberland, 
479. 

,  Hotonrofe,  co.  Westmoreland,  169. 

Huwet,  John,  511. 

Huwyssh,  Robert,  888. 

,  Eleanor  his  wife,  888. 

Huxloe,  Hokeslowe,  co.  Northampton,  hun- 
dred of ,  191. 

Huy8.«be.    See  Huish. 


Hyche,  John,  415. 

Hyde  by  Winchester,  co.  Southampton^  abbey 
of,  484. 

convent  of,  298,  387,  434. 

,  abbot  of,  2)9. 

,  Thomas,  abbot  of,  298,  484. 

.,  Thomas  Bramley,  abbot  of,  887. 

,  Nicholas  Strode,  abbot  of,  298. 

Hyde,  William,  37,  304,  545. 

Hyesham.    See  Heysham. 

Hyett,  Hiett,  James,  117,  484. 

,  Robert,  18,  24,  861. 

Hyhoe,  Richard,  503. 

Hyhnnger.    See  Ongar. 

Hykeham,  Ikham,  co.  Lincoln,  alien   priory 
of,  218. 

Hykeham,  North,  Northikhnm,  co.  Lrinoolo. 
371. 

,  South,  371. 

Hylresdon.    See  Hilleresdon. 

Hylton.    See  Hilton. 

Hylton,  Godfrey,  467. 

Hylyard.    See  Hilliard. 

Hyndeley,  William,  335. 

Hyne,  John,  505. 

Hyneford,  co.  Somerset,  145. 

Hynkeley.     See  Hinckley. 

Hynkersell,  Robert,  49. 

Hynnepedyll.     See  PiddJehinton. 

Hyntes,  co.  Salop,  448. 

Hynton.    See  Hinton. 

Hyptoft    See  Huttoft 

Hyrst,  John,  314. 

^y^iigton.     See  Heighington. 

Hyvewere,  on  the  Severn,  238. 

Hywyssh,  Nicholas,  339,  528. 


Ibberton,  Kbrighton,  co.  Dorset,  70. 

Iceland,  378. 

lekleton,  Ikelyngton,  co.  Cambridge,  416. 

Idley,  John,  419. 

Idley,  CO.  Kent.    See  Ridley. 

Idon,  John,  412. 

Iffin,  Yfiyng,  co.  Kent,  465,  548. 

Iham,  Yham,  co.  Sussex,  145,  451. 

Ihate,  Hugh,  419. 

Ikelyngton.     See  lekleton. 

Ikham.    See  Hykeham. 

Ilbary,  Yelbury,  co.  Oxford,  298. 

Ilchester,  TcFelchestre,  co.  Somerset,  211. 

Ilderton,  Ildyrton  [co.  Northumberland],  388, 

He.    See  Isle. 

Ilford,  Hleford,  co.  Sssex,  398. 

Ilkeston,  William,  814. 


GENERAL  INDEX. 


651 


Ilketsale,  co.  Norfolk,  179. 
llketohall,  co.  Suffolk,  855. 
lUeford.     See  Ilford. 
lUehershe,  co.  Devon,  265. 
Illyngworth,  Richard,  2, 22,  24, 278, 477, 488- 
490,  580,  578. 

, ,  chief  baron  of  the  Exchequer, 

198,  512,  518. 

,  Alice  hi*  wife,  378. 

Jlmington,  IlmyndoD,  co.  Warwick,  51,  820, 
490. 

Ihnyndon.    See  Ilmington. 

Ince,  Ines,  co.  Lancaster,  84. 

Incelaraghljn,  in  Scotland,  538. 

Ines.    See  Ince. 

Ingaldesthorp,  Edmund,  219. 

,  Joan,  219,  525. 

Ingatestone,  Gyngges  at  Petram,  co.  Eissex, 

396. 
Inge,  Thomas,  423. 
Ingelfeld,  John,  93. 
Ingham  [co.  Suffolk],  547. 

,  CO.  Lincoln,  115,  282. 

Ingilton,  William,  parHon  of  Middleton,  380. 

And  see  Ingletcm. 
Inglescombe,  Inglishcombe,  co.  Somerset,  28, 

272,  358,  362. 
Ingleton,  Ingilton,  Robert,  34,  37,  44,  86, 102, 

225,  233,  452,  560,  568. 
, ,  escheator  of  Northampton  and 

Rutland,  35,  188. 
Ingle  wood,  Ingelwode,  luglewode,  Ingilwodc, 

CO.  Cumberland,  forest  of,  60,  61,  109, 

540. 

le  Overward  in,  53. 

,  le  Netherwarde  in,  60. 

Inglis,  William,  838. 

Inglissh.     See  Engljssh. 

Inglose,  Henry,  172. 

Ingoldesby,  John,  67,  218,  486,  530,564, 572. 

, ,  baron  of  the  Exchequer,  214. 

.Ralph,  178,418. 

Ingoldmells,  co.  Lincoln,  144,  871. 

Ingowe,  CO.  Northumberland,  259,  547. 

Innocent,  Thomaa,  882. 

Ins,  Edmund,  102. 

,  Thomas,  31,  278. 

Instow,  Yendestowe,  co.  Devon,  265. 

Inverley,  lyerley,  co.  Stafford,  56. 

Ippelpen.    See  Ipplepen. 

Ippeswell,  Robert,  436. 

, ,  panon  of  Kirstead  and  Lang- 
hale,  286. 

, ,  parson  of  Haddiscoe,  286. 

Ipplepen,  Ippelpen,  co.  Devon,  62, 68, 210,410. 

,  leFord  in,  68. 

Ipra,  William  de,  402. 

Ipswich,  CO.  Suffolk,  27,  231,  262,  418,  430 
480,  553. 

,  port  of,  13,  107,  117,143,  182,188, 

185,  189,  218,  229,  231,  294,  328,  831, 
348,  368,  482,  464,  513,  514. 


Ipswich,  ship  called  le  MargareU  of,  229. 

,  Holy  Trinity,  prior  and  canons  of, 

898.' 

, ,  John,  prior  of,  898. 

,  charter  dated  at,  409. 

Irby,  CO.  Lincoln,  112,  871. 

Ireland,  21,  33,  52,88,  85,  111,  117,  137,  142, 
178,  181,  188,  201,  215,  224,  225,  268, 
278,  276,  287,  822,  339,  856,  363,  427. 
431,  444,  477,  488,  518,  588,  549. 

,  Parliament  in,  40,  272,  840. 

, ,  lords  of,  178,  188. 

,  lieutenant  of,  225,  278,  355. 

And  see  Richard ;  George. 

,     deputy-lieutenant    of.      See     Fits 

Eustace;  Dessemond. 

,  treasurer  of,  54, 181,  225. 

And  see  Wenlok  ;  FltzEustace. 

,    admiral    of.      See    Neville;    Saint 

Lawreoce ;  Richard. 

,  Great  Seal  of,  21. 

,  chancellor  of,  225,  355. 

And  see  Welles  ;  Tiptoft. 

.........  chancery  of,  rolls  of,  26. 

, , ,  keeper  of.     See  Colt. 

,  Exchequer  of,  84,  96,  225,  284,  329. 

,  chief  baron  of.     See  Come- 

waleys. 

, ,  baron  of.     See  Baryngton. 

> t  chancellor  of  the  green  wax  of. 

See  Norreys. 

»   second  chamberlain  ot    See 

FitzAdam. 

,     »      remembrancer     of.        See 

-  Higham. 

f  ,  clerk  of   common    pleas  of. 

See  FitzHarry. 

,  ,  engrossers  of.      See  Brenau; 

('<xlyng;  Sharpe. 

,  Common  Bench  in,  71,  96. 

9 chief  justice  of.     See  Dovedall. 

» » justice  of.     See  Come  waleys. 

9  King's  Bench  in.  Justice  of.      See 

Bernewall. 

,  chief  bench  in,  96. 

9  the  king's  chief  place  in,  110. 

,  seijeant  at  hiw  in.     See  Dowdall. 

,  clerk  of  the  crown  of.    See  Cogle. 

,  Cinque  Ports  of,  226. 

I  coinage  in,  40,  870,  371. 

chief  butler  in.     See  Welles ;  Cleloo. 

,  customs  and  subsidies  in,  96. 

Lrehmd,  Erland,  George,  sheriff  of  Middlesex, 
211. 

> ,  sheriff  of  London,  193,  512. 

Irissh,  William,  201. 

Iraham,  Irynham,  Traam,  co.  Lincoln,  877, 
.502. 

Irpe,  William,  518. 

Irryell,  James,  34. 

Irthington,  co.  Cumberland,  140,  534. 

Irthyngboorgh,  John,  369. 


652 


GENERAL  INDEX. 


Irvine,  Ercwyo,  id  Scotland,  248. 

Irynbam.     See  Irnham. 

Isabella,  queen  of  Edward  II.,  168,  485. 

Isaak,  John,  101,  215, 566. 

Iseham.     See  Isham. 

Iseldon.    See  Islington. 

Iseley  Walton.     See  Isley  Walton. 

Iselham.     See  Ideliam. 

Isendcn.     See  Essenden. 

Isham,  CO.  Northampton,  195,  369. 

Isham,  John,  90. 

,  Richard,  369. 

Robert,  515,  533,569. 

Isle,  He,  John  de,  262. 

Isle,  John  de,  earl  of  Ross  and  lord  of  the 
Isles,  115,  262. 

Isle,  lady  of.     See  Ferrers;  Fortibus. 

Isle,  William,  133,301. 

Tsleharo,  Iselham,  co.  Cambridge,  199,  387, 
454. 

Isles,  lord  of  the.    See  Isle. 

Isleworth,  Istllworth,  co.  Middlesex,  97,  144. 

Islej  Walton,  Iseley  Walton,  co.  Leicester, 

187,  362. 
Islington,  Iseldon,  co.  Middlesex,  8,  818,  844. 
Istilworth.    See  Isleirorth. 
Italy,  Italians,  276, 465. 
Itonfeld,  CO.  Cumberland,  540. 
Ive,  John,  547. 
,  Thomas,  8, 45, 209.  2eo,  388,  411, 448, 

453,  567. 
,  lilaster  William,  parson  of  Tempsford, 

80. 

Iverley.     »Sec  Inverley. 

Iverv,  Rog^r,  parson  of  Middlcton  Stoney, 
466. 

, ,  parson  of  Pertenholl,  466. 

Ives,  John,  prior  of  Sheen,  160. 

Iveton.    See  Yeovilton. 

Ivyohurch,  co.  Wilts,  prior  and  convent  of, 

95. 
Ivys,  Richard,  5. 
Iwardby,  Nicholas,  209,  211. 

,  Elizabeth,  his  wife,  209. 

,  John,  211. 

Iwardeby,  John,  504. 
,  Joan  his  wife,  504. 

Iweme    Courtney,    Yeveme  Courteney,    co. 
Dorset,  225,  227,  331. 

Iweme  Minster,  HuUe  by  [co.  Dorset],  70. 

Iwerst.     See  Ewhurst. 

Ixworth,  CO.  Suffolk,  412. 

Ixworth     Thorpe,    Yexworth    Thorpe,     co. 
Suffolk,  355. 


J. 

Jack,  John,  68. 

Jack  Hick,  William,  68. 


Jackson,  Henry,  504. 

,  Richard,  49. 

Jacomyn,  Richard,  281. 
Jake,  Adam,  492. 

,  John,  492. 

Jakharry,  Peter,  201,  489. 
Jakhik,  William,  201. 
Jakraulyn,  Henry,  488. 
Jakson,  Robert,  492. 

,WilUam,  587. 

James,  Jamys,  Andrew,  3,  501,  572. 

,  Bartholomew,  sheriff  of  Middlesex, 

209,  217. 

, ,  sheriff  of  London,  259,  289. 

,  John,  8. 

,  Robert,  4. 

Janiemoutb.     See  Yarmouth. 

Jay,  Richard,  521,  537,  555. 

Jedburgh,  Jedworth,  Gedeworth,  co.  Rox- 
burgh, 191,  263,  275. 

Jehan,  John,  94. 

Jekea,  Henry,  490. 

Jelyffe,  Richard,  490. 

Jenkyn,  John  ap,  76. 

JenkyD,  Thomas,  parson  of  Netherwent,  370. 

....' , ,  parson  of  Stratton  on  the  Foss, 

370. 

Jcnkyns,  William,  420. 
Jcnkynson,  Joan,  324. 

,  John,  258. 

Jenney,  Genny,  Edmund,  471. 

,  John,  174,  205,  216,  568. 

,  William,  200,  348,  387,  471,  573. 

Jeny,  Richard,  lu7,  193,  263,  323. 
Jenyn,  John,  53. 
Jepstowe.    See  Chepstow. 
Jermyn,  John,  232. 
Jerusalem.     See  St.  John. 
Jervas,  Robert,  413. 
Jewels,  96. 
Jews,  exile  of,  63. 

,  houses  of,  in  Lincoln,  500. 

Jhonson,  Richard,  vicar  of  Pewsey,  75. 
Jice,  William,  68. 

Joan,  queen  of  Henry  IV.,  337,  388. 
Joce,  Richard,  100,  206. 

,  William,  201. 

Joe,  Godfrey,  67. 

John,  king  of  England,  79,  134,  337. 

,  letters  patent  of,  1 39,  242,  244 . 

,  ctuirtersof,  79,  146,  148,  150,  159, 

161,  165,  171,236,  241-246,  249-252, 
264,  266,  296,  305,  307,  375,  394,  398, 
400,  401,  403--405,  408,  409,  446,  495- 
498,  556-558. 

John,  count  of  Anjou,  251.  , 

,  duke  of  Bedford,  45,  169,  182. 

John,  Christopher,  492,  552,  554. 

,  German,  ^78. 

,  Graund,  201. 

,  Henry,  388,  471. 


GENERAL  INDEX. 


653 


John,  Hugh,  80,  8],  323. 

,  Marj  his  wife,  81. 

,  Louis,  56,  90,  452,  504. 

, ,  receiver  general  of  the  duchy 

of  Cornwall,  221. 

,  Robert,  284. 

,  Thomas,  417. 

—,37. 

the  Clerk,  527. 

ap  Jenkjn,  76. 

ap  Mered,  529.      , 

..........  Reuieraus  son  of,  500. 

Johns,  Hugh,  219. 
Johnson,  Clement,  302. 

....,  Hugh,  202. 

,  John,  189. 

,  John,  the  elder,  288. 

,  the  younger,  288. 

,  Nicholas,  348. 

..........  Richard,  831. 

,  Robert,  134. 

,  Rohind,  127. 

,  William,  282,  293. 

And  sec  Jhonson. 
Johnston,  John,  263. 
Joliblode,  Thomas,  i46. 

,  Maud  his  wife,  146. 

Joljf,  Thomas,  92,  214. 

Jolyff,  John,  chaplain  of  UcHtormell,  120. 

Jonston,  in  Scotland.     See  Perth. 

Jonys,  Thomas,  471. 

Joones,  Thomas  204. 

Jope*  John,  526. 

Jordaneston,  in  Ireland,  117. 

Jose,  William,  173. 

Josep,  Oto,  207. 

Jcskyn,  John,  129,  .'^56. 

Joslyn,  Williaiii,  180. 

Josselyn,  Ralph,  529,  530. 

, ,  mayor  of   London,  451,   4.59, 

488,  522. 
Jowedercll,  John,  172. 
Joye,  Godfrey,  412. 

,  John,  194,  266. 

Joyoour,  John,  550. 

Jude  the  Jew,  500. 

Judkyn,  Thoma-*,  420. 

Jurdan,  John,  264. 

Juyn,  Jolin,  justice  of  the  Bench,  257. 


I 


I 


K. 

Kaerliou.     See  Caerleon. 
Kager,  Thomas,  32. 
Kaoagnca.     See  Chaigny. 
Kailwu>e.     See  Kaylcwuy 


Kantriesselly.     Sen  Cantref  Selig. 
Karbroke.     See  Carbrooke. 
Karkedon,  co.  Worcester,  182. 
Karliolo,  Walter  de,  500. 
Kateryngham.     See  Ketteringham. 
Kateryke.     See  Catterick. 
Kayleway,  K&ilwaye,  Caylewav,  William,  98, 
138,  231,  423,  563. 

KayU,  John,  1 74. 

Kaynesford.    See  Kentsford. 

Kaynesham.     See  Keynsham. 

Kaynesham,  John,  317. 

Kaynell,  William,  14,  289. 

Kayrhugh.     See  Car^w. 

Kays,  Gilbert,  463. 

Kayton,  Richard,  54. 

Keal,  East,  Esterkell,  co.  Lincoln,  487. 

Kedewyn.    .See  Cedewain. 

Kedington,  Kydyngton,  co.  Suffolk,  186. 

KedwcUy,  Geoftrey,  363,  514,  553. 

And  see  Kidwelly. 

Keeche,  William,  262. 

Keevil,  Kevele,  co.  Wilts,  444. 

Keffyn,    David,    parson    of   Llanrhaiadr  yn 
Mochoaut,  182. 

Keftesgate.     See  Kif^sgate. 

Kegworth,  co.  Leicester,  320. 

Kelbey^in  Sooth  Wales,  119. 

Kelby,  oo.  Lincoln,  131. 

Keld,  Tboma?,  29. 

Kelegrewe,  John,  561. 

Kelenyke,  265. 

Kclct,    Wi'.Iiam,    parson     of     St.    Andrew 
Hubbard,  London,  300. 

Kell,  John  de,  500. 

Kellet,  Kelette,  co.  Lancaster,  140,  534. 

Kelly,  John,  232. 

, ,  mayor  of  Exeter,  101. 

..........  Richard,  146. 

Kelmestowc.     See  St.  Keuelm. 

Kelowe,  Kollowe,  Thomas,  28,  32. 

Kelsey,  Kellesey,  co.  Lincoln,  169,  183. 

Marie  [co.  Lincoln],  185. 

KeUhall,  Roger,  43. 

Kelso,  in  Scotland,  333. 

Kelsy,  Kelsey,  John,  291,  442. 

,  William,  270. 

Kelyng,  Richard,  5. 

Kelynge,  John,  413. 

Kemeys,  [co.  Pembroke],  114. 

Kemeys,  John,  286. 

,  Eleanor  his  wife,  286. 

Kemmys,  John,  505. 

Kemp,  Eempe,   John,    archbishop  of   York 

[1426-1452],  310. 

,    ,    archbishop    of     Canterbury 

[1452-1454],  cardinal  bishop  of  St. 
RndSna,  2. 

,  Thomas,  bishop  of  London    [1450- 

1189],  2,  3,    22,   235,  334,  338,421, 
564-567. 


654 


GENERAL  INDEX. 


Kempfon,  Thomas,  804. 

Kempsey,  charter  dated  at,  401. 

Kempton.    See  Colde  KeoDyngton. 

EeoMter,  William,  508. 

Kemys,  Roger,  SOS,  564. 

Keo,  Kene,  John,  38,  46,  66,  98,  565. 

,  Robert,  46,488. 

,  Thomas,  279. 

Ken,  WiUiam,  115,  279,  456,  552,  566. 
Kendal,  Kendale,co.  Westmoreland,  169,363. 
Kendale,  Bartholomew,  196. 

,  John,  69,  75,  375. 

, ,  receiyer  of  the  duchy  of  Com- 

waU,  269. 

,  Henry,  parson  of  Burwash,  339. 

, ,  parson  of  West  Tilbury,  889. 

Kenfig,  Kenefeg,  co.  Glamorgan,  Men  of,  427. 

Kenforth.    See  Kennford. 

Kenilwortb,  eharter  dated  at,  840. 

Kenne,  co.  Devon,  85,  148,  318,  424. 

Kennecogh  [co.  Anglesea] ,  882. 

Kennford,  Kenforth,  co.  Devon,  70,85,148, 

424. 
Kennington,  Kenyngton,  co.  Surrey,  52,  55, 

181,  188,435. 

,  letters  patent  dated  at,  236,  311. 

,  charters  dated  at,  248,  299,  397. 

Kennoun,  WiUiam,  490. 

Kensale.    See  Kinsale. 

Kensale,  WiUiam,  194,  266. 

Kensington,  co.  Middlesex,  76,  197. 

Kent  county,  11-13,  18,  19,  53,  76,  90,  95, 

96,  102,  111,   122.  126,  132,  133,  151, 

188,  213,  230,  278,  279,  301,  304,  325, 

330,  846,  347,  379,  382,  391,  402,  403, 

408»  434,  448,  453,  462,  489,  491,  493, 

545. 
,  sheriff  of,  101,  102, 132, 133,230,276, 

279,  403,  462,  489,  491. 

Aud  see    Clifton;    Pecche ;    Brown; 
Cheyne. 
,  escheator  in,  290,  345,  363. 

And  see  Knyght ;  Brokeman  ;  Grene. 
,  outlawries  in,  6,  253,255,  258,411, 

416,  419,  507,  509,  511,  535. 

,  subsidy  and  ulnage  of  cloth  in,  209. 

,  justices  of  the  peace  in,  267,  362. 

,  commissions  of  the  peace  in,  565. 

,  carl  of.    See  Burgo. 

Kent,  Benet,  516. 

,  Henry,  315. 

,  FhiUppa  his  wife,  315. 

,  Isabel,  616. 

,  Joan,  516. 

,  John,  419. 

,  Julian,  516, 

,  Robert,  516. 

,  Stephen,  516. 

,  Master  Thomas,  516. 

, ,  clerk  of  the  council,  126. 

,  secondary  in  the  office  of  the 

privy  seal,  126,520. 


Kent,  WiUiam,  509. 

Kentcombe,  Lower,  Nether  Kentcombe,   co. 
Dorset,  225,  454. 

Kentford,  co.  Suffolk,  253,  318. 
Kentish  Town,  co.  Middlesex,  344. 

Keutsford,     Kaynesford,      Caynesford,     co. 

Somerset,  286,  366. 

Keppok.    See  Cappoge. 

Ker,  George,  374. 

Kerby.    See  Kirby. 

Kerdyf .    See  Cardiff. 

Kerketon.     See  Kirkton. 

Kermerdyn.     See  Caermarthen. 

Kermerthmen.     See  Caermarthen. 

Kemyk  in  Luxulian,  co.  ComwaU,  488. 

Kemyngton.     See  Kirmington. 

Kembullok,  KeyrbuUok,  eo.  Cornwall,  16,  78. 

Kerrier.    See  Kirrier. 

Kershalton.    See  Carshalton. 

Kerver,  Richard,  296. 

,  Thomas,  518. 

Keiye.     See  Kirrier. 

Kessingland,  Kessynglond,  co.  Suffolk,  107. 

Kesteyoe,  Richard,  21,  254. 

Keston,  Richard,  415. 

KetilweU,  KetylweU,  Robert,  43,  183. 

Ketleigh,  Ketelegh,  co.  Cornwall,  372. 

Ketteringham,  Kateryngham   [co.  Norfolk], 
585,  542. 

Kettleby,  co.  Lincoln,  306. 

Ketyng,  James,  prior  of  the  Hospital  of  St. 

John  of  Jerusalem  in  Ireland,  272. 
Kevele.     See  Keevil. 
Kevendryn.     See  Cefia  Bryn. 
KevereU,  John,  374. 
Kevermonnde.     See  Kirmond. 
Kexby,  John,  115. 
Keye,  Nicholas,  828. 
Keynsham,  Kaynesham,  co.  Somerset,  59. 

,  abbot  and  convent  of,  59,  307. 

KeyrbuUok.     See  KerpbuUok. 
Keyre  stream,  co.  Monmouth,  425. 
Keys,  Roger,  383. 

,  Thomas,  383. 

Kiddagheston,  in  Ireland,  117. 
Kidliugton,  co.  Oxford,  499. 
Kidwelly,  co.  Caermarthen,  426. 
KidweUy,  Kydwelly,  Geoffrey,  9,  201. 

And  see  KedweUy. 

Kiftsgate,  Keftesgate,  co.  Gloucester,  hundred 
of,  53,  221,  268. 

Kilbum,  CO.  Middlesex,  prioress  and  nuns  of, 
459. 

KUdalke,  co.  Meath,  340. 

Kilgerran,  Gilgarran  [co.  Pembroke],  114. 

Kilkenny, WUliam  de,  archdeacon  of  Coventry, 
408. 

KiUebury,  co.  Devon,  61. 

KiUerby,  KUwardby,  co.  York,  169. 

KiUingholme,    Kyllyngholmc,    oo.    Lincoln, 
169. 


GENERAL  INDEX. 


655 


Kilroaiuhani,  priory  of,  alias  the  Hospital  of 
St.  John  of  Jerusalem  in  IrdaDd,  188, 
272,  380. 

,  James  Keiyng,  prior  of,  272. 

Kilpeck,  Kylpek,  co.  Hereford,  77,  425,  533. 

Kilpin,  CO.  York,  819. 

Kilqaite,  Kilquyte,  co.  Cornwall,  108. 

Eilton,  Calveton,  co.  Somerset,  286,  366. 

Kilvej,  Kylbey,  co.  Glamoipin,  91,  426. 

Kilwardby.     See  Killerby. 

Kimberley,  Kymbarley,  co.  Norfolk,  473. 

Kimble,  Kymbell,  Great,  co.  Buckingham,  121. 

,  Little.  CO.  Buckingham,  \i\\,  473. 

Kinfare,  Kynvare,  co.  Stafford,  379,  481. 

forest  of,  8,  56,  481. 

King,  the,  passim. 

King's  admiral,  373,  384. 

apothecary.     See  Clerk. 

artillery,  61,  488. 

aunt.    See  Bourchier. 

body,  esquires  of,  appointment  of,  8, 

17,  41. 
brothers.      See     Edmund;    (leorge; 

Richard. 

CArvers,  27,  58,  79,  125,  180,  198. 

cellar,  59,  75,  151,  292. 

chaplains,  870. 

chapel,  117,  188,  2U8,  287,  359,  429, 

487,  457. 

dean  of.     See  Say. 

,  consort.    See  EliKabeth. 

cook,  80,  448. 

coronation,  9,  18. 

daughter.    See  Elizabeth. 

debts,  10,27,  28,  41,44,  .'>4,  64,80, 

96,  148,182,220,  222,  271,283,300, 
32g,  S2S,  824,  826,  843,  345,  378,  424, 
426,  484,  485,  438,  439,  442^  474,  513, 
546. 

father.    See  Richard. 

goldsmith,  885. 

jewels,  438,  448,  459. 

,  keeper  of.    See  Porte. 

kitchen,  117,  218,  264,  .325,  388,  461. 

larder,  152,  272,  282,  423,  448. 

minstrels,  221,  293,  297,  437. 

mother.    See  Cicely. 

painter,  15. 

pantry,  293,  857. 

pavilions,  tents,  125,  191,  358. 

physician .    See  Frysc  ;  Hattecliff . 

secretary.    See  Bothc. 

sister.    5ee  Holland;  Margaret. 

sewers,  213. 

ships,   18,  88,  87,  38,  99,   100,  204, 

206,  211,  229,  231,  272,  281,  302-304, 

835. 

smith.    See  Clampard. 

spicery,  51,  90,446. 

stable,  214. 

stationer,  49. 

»  surgeon.     See  Hobbys. 


King's  tapestry,  152,  422. 

vineyard,  152. 

works,    clerk     of.       See    Ardem ; 

Stmtton;  Straunge. 

Kingsbere,  Kyugesbyre,  co.  Southampton, 
416. 

King's  Bromley,  co.  Stafiford,  485. 
Kingsclere,  co.  Southampton,  259. 
King's  Cliffe.     5ee  Cliffe. 
Kingsdon,  Kyngeston  by  Ilchestre,  co.  Somer- 
set, 454. 
Kingsdown,  Kyngesdown,  co.  Kent,  131. 
Kingsland,  Kyngeslane,  co.  Hereford,  7 1 . 

Kingsnorth,  Kvngesnotb,  co.  Kent,  88,  464, 

548. 
King's  Norton,  Kyngesnorton,  co.  Worcester, 

181,  261,  300. 

Kingsnympton,  Nemyngtou  Regis,  co.  Devon, 
76,  424. 

King's  Thorpe,  co.  Northampton,  261,  361, 
480,  480,  523. 

Kingston,  co.  Kent,  380. 

,  Kyngestovme,  co.  Dorset,  192. 

Lacy,  CO.  Dorset,  197. 

Kingston  by  Ilchester,  Kyngeston  by  Yevnl- 
chestre,  co.  Somerset,  225,  226. 

Kingston  on  Hull,  co.  York,  48,  188, 185, 189, 
198,  237,  259,  272,  277,  284,  327,  886, 
351,  867,  878,  413,  477,  485,  503. 

,  mayor  and  burgesses  of,  287,  289. 

,  mayor  of,  281,  455. 

,  port  of,  12,  14,  20,  63,71, 87,  93,  106, 

107,  128,  129,  131,  155,  161,  190,  195, 
210,  213,  231,  289,  294,  303,  334,  335, 
858,  378,  886,  422,  436,  4C4,  48^  513- 
516. 

,  subsidy  and  ulnage  of  cloth  in,  130. 

....,  St.  Michael's,  prior  and  convent  of, 

210. 

,  ship  called  le  AnUmy  of,  378. 

,  sheriffs  of,  206. 

Kingston  on  Thames,  co.  Surrey,  5,  82,  97, 
114,  144,  176,  217,  222,  292,  472,  504, 
510. 

Kingswood,  Kyngeswode  Heth,  co.  Essex, 
forest  of,  265. 

Kingswood,  Kyngeswode,  co.  Gloucester, 
forest  of,  129,  170. 

Kingt.in,  Kyngton,  cos.  Warwick  and  Leices- 
ter, 445,  480. 

Kington,  West,  co.  Wilts,  16,  382. 

Kinnerthorp,  877. 

Kinoulton,  Kynalton,  co.  Nottingham,  285. 

Kinsale,  Kynsale,  Kensale  in  Ireland,  51. 

,  port  of,  198. 

sub-prior  of,  278. 

Kirby,  Keiby,  co.  Leicester,  871. 

Kirby  Bellars,  Kyrkeby  on  Wrethek,  co. 
Leicester,  prior  and  convent  of,  288. 

Kirkadam,  John,  426. 

Kirkby,  Kirkeby,  co.  Westmoreland,  169. 

Kirkby  Stephen,  Kirkeby  Stephau,  co.  West- 
moreland, 148,  434. 


G5G 


GENERAL  INDEX. 


Kirkby  Stephen,  forest  of,  143. 

Kirkby  Overblow,  co.  York,  454. 

Kirkby  Woodhouse,  co.  NottiDgham,  22. 

Kirkebride,  Richard,  502,  540. 

Kirkeby,  Kii^by,  Kyrkeby,  John,  189,  813, 
511,526. 

,  Richard,  13,  154,  172,  199,  348. 

,*Robert,  348. 

,  Roland,  492. 

,  ThomaB,  880,  467. 

, ,  keeper  of  the  rolls  of  Chan- 
cery, 82,  147. 

,  William,  382. 

Kirkeham,  co.  York,  priory  of,  867,  458. 

,  prior  and  convent  of,  311. 

Thoman,  prior  of,  311. 

Kirkham,  Kirkeham,  Nicholas,  33,  37,  204. 

,     Walter    de,     bishop     of     Durham 

[1249-1260],  393. 

Kirkeham,  Kyrkeham,  Robert,  4,  815,  410. 

, ,  keeper  of  the  rolls  of  Chancery, 

82,  192. 

,   ,  keeper  of  the  hanaper,  52,  315. 

, ,  prebendary  of  St.  PaalV,  Lon- 
don, 20. 

, ,  dean  of  St  Stephen's,  West- 
minster. 20,  416. 

, ,  parson  of  Hastings,  20. 

, ,  prebendary  of  St,  John's,  Bever- 
ley, 20. 

Kirkelerode  by  Yarmouth,  262,  421. 

Kirk  Ella,  Kyrkellay,  co.  York,  237. 

Kirkelyngton.     See  Kirk  Levington. 

Kirklangton.    See  L^ngton. 

Kirk  Levington,  Kirkelyngton,  co.  York, 
160,  198,  455. 

Kirklington,  co.  Nottingham,  516. 

Kirk  Oswald,  Kirkeoswalde,  co.  Cumberland, 
140,  534. 

Kirkstead,  co.  Lincoln,  abbot  and  convent  of 
356. 

Kirkton.     See  Kirtoii. 

Kirmington,  Kernyngton,  co.  Lincoln,  112, 
169,  227,  344,  345. 

Kirmond,  Kevermounde,  co.  Lincoln,  169. 

Kimyngton.     See  Kirmington. 

Kirrier,  Kerrier,  Kerve.  co.  Cornwall,  hun- 
dred of,  204. 

....,  stannary  of,  461. 

Kirslak,  co.  Westmoreland,  169. 
Kirkstead,  Kyrkested,  co.  Norfolk,  286. 
Kirkliugton,  co.  Oxford,  473. 

,  CO.  Nottingham,  496,  539. 

Ktrton,  Kirkton,  Kcrketon,  co.  Lincoln,  169, 
494. 

,  in  Holland,  co.  Lincoln,  270,471. 

,  in  Lindsey,  co.  Lincoln,  41,  75,  120, 

130,  197,  270,  324,  337,  471,  544. 
Kirton,  Edmund,  abbot  of  Westminster,  290. 

,  John, 106. 

Kiry.     See  Cery. 

Kiryell,  Kyryell,  Thomas,  6,  76,  299,  511. 


Kiryell,  CecUy  hia  wife,  6,  299,  511. 
Knapton,  Thomas,  261. 
Knaresburgh,  eo.  York,  285. 

,  charter  dated  at,  165. 

Kneeton,  Koeton,  co.  York,  169. 
Knell,  John,  535. 

,  Thomas,  535. 

Kneaeworth,  Richard,  560. 
Kneton,  co.  Westmoreland,  169. 
Kneveton,  Geoffrey,  361. 

,  William,  361. 

,  Nicholas,  31,  135. 

Knight,  John,  vicar  of  Pewsey,  298. 

,  William,  parson  of  Fewaejr,  298. 

Kaightetone,  co.  Southampton,  228. 

Knighton  [co.  Somerset],  414. 

Knigbtsbridge,  co.  Middlesex,  294. 

Knoblowe,  John,  parson  of  Beauinone,  469. 

Knok,  CO.  Meath,  117. 

Knokking,  co.  Kent,  544. 

Knoll,  78. 

Knoll,  eo.  Devon,  265. 

Knolle,  CO.  Somerset,  290. 

And  aee  Knowle. 
Knolles,  John,  290. 

,  Robert,  33. 

, ,  dean  of  St.  Burian,  73. 

Knoston.     See  Knuston. 
Knotte,  Richard,  185. 

,  William,  463. 

Knottingley,  Knottynglay,  co.  York,  S2S. 
Knottyngesbemys.     See  Notting. 
Knotty ngle,  John  de,  461. 

,  Richard  de,  537. 

Knoville,  Bogo  de,  62. 

Knowle,  Knolle,  co.  Warwick,  490.  . 

Knuston,  Knoston,  co.  Northampton,  111,431. 

Kuyfe,  John,  507. 

Knyght,  John,  92,  258. 

,  Leonard,  451. 

,  Roger,  276. 

,  Stephen,  eseheator  in  the  county  of 

Kent,  264. 

,  V/illiams,  44,  257. 

,  Thomas,  567. 

Knyvet,  Knevett,  John,  67,  83,  135,  205,  323, 

560,  565,  568. 

,  Alice  his  wife,  67,  83, 

,  William,  67,  83,   135,  294,  323,432, 

568. 

,  Edmund,  323. 

,  Ingilrnm,  37. 

,  Elizabeth,  83. 

Kokerell,  Adam,  500. 

Kyche,  William,  262. 

Kydwelly.    See  Kidwelly. 

Kydyngton.     See  Kedington. 

Kyffyn,  David,  37.  ^ 

Kyghley,  James,  175. 

,  Richard,  382. 


I 


\ 


GENERAL  INDEX. 


657 


Kyghlej^,  Kichard,  vicar  of  Mitford,  175. 

William,  348. 

Kylbej.     See  Kilvey. 
Kyiljngham,  John,  419. 
Kylpek.    See  Kilpeck. 
Kylygrewe,  John,  162. 

f  Thomas,  153,  233. 

Kymbell.     See  Kimble. 
Kyme,  co.  Lincoln,  1 15, 19S. 

South,  454. 

»  Croft,  CO.  Lincoln,  3-1. 

Kyme,  Thomas,  84,  101,  205,  567. 
Kymere,  Gilbert,  150. 
Kymyngton,  William,  446. 
Kynalton.    See  Kinoulton. 
Kynaston,  Roger,  98,  570. 

, ,  sheriff  of  Salop,  518. 

» >  escheator  in  Salop,  518. 

Kynder,  John,  81. 
Kyng,  Oliver,  184,  212. 

,  John,  417. 

,  Peter,  412. 

,  Richard,  5,  32,202,  545. 

Kyngdon,  Edward,  42,  04. 
Kynge,  William,  316. 
Kyngesbarton.     See  Barton . 
Kyngesbere.    See  Bere. 
Kyngescot,  John,  186. 

*••»  >  bishop  of  Carlisle,  220,  292, 

808,  832. 
Kyngeshill,  co.  Warwick,  327. 
Kyngeshorst.     See  Hurst. 
Kyngeslano.    See  Kingsland. 
Kyngeslowo.     See  Ringslow. 
Kyngesnoth.     See  Eingsnorth. 
Kyngestanley.    See  Stanley. 
Kyngeston.     See  Kingston. 

Kyngeston  Wynterbom.     See  Winterboume 
Kingston. 

Kyngeswode,  co.  Salop,  212. 

'  Kyngis  capuU,'  77. 

Kyugton,  Walter,  5.  , 

Kjngyston,  John,  507. 

Kyniiesman,  John,  256. 

Kynot,  John,  3)4. 

Kynsale.    See  Kinsale. 

Kynton,  Walter,  32. 

•  Kynvare.     See  Kinvar. 

Kyrk,  John,  173. 

Kyrkeby  on  Wrethek.     See  Kirby  Bellars. 

Kyrkeby.     See  Kirkeby. 

Kyrkcham.     See  Kirkeham. 

Eyrkested.     See  Kirstead. 

Kyrk  Hithe.     See  Cricksea. 

Kymarth,  Roger,  parson  of  Llanaber,  357. 

Kyroyngton.     See  Kirmington. 

Kyrton,  John  de,  71. 

John,  30,  295. 

,  Thomas,  299. 

Kyryell.     See  Kiryell. 

u     86914. 


L. 


Laceby,  Leisebi,  co.  Lincoln,  41. 

Loceby,  John,  parson  of  Kelsey  Marie,  185. 

Lacock,  CO.  AVilts,  abbess  and  convent  of,  527, 

>  Agnes,  abbess  of,  527 . 

Lacon,  Lakeo,  co  Salop,  50d. 
Lacon.     See  Laken. 
Lacy,  Adam,  413. 

>  Henry  de,  earl  of  Lincoln,  242,  310. 

,  John,  319. 

,  William,  232. 

Lagharn.    See  Laughame. 
Lagharne,  William,  507. 
Lflghton.     See  Laugh  ton. 
Lake,  Richard,  88. 

Laken,  Lakyn,  Lacon,  William,  36,  133,  389, 
390,  490,  529,  530,  559,  566. 

f  ,  justice  of   the  Ktng*8  Bench, 

442,  484,  512. 

Lam,  John,  322. 

Lamall,  William  de,  342. 

Lamana,  co.  Cornwall,  460. 

Lambard,  Isabel,  abbess  of  Wilton,  356. 

,  John,  345. 

,  Thomas,  50. 

Lambart,  Edmund,  101. 

,  John,  101. 

,  Robert,  101. 

Lambe,  John,  316. 

Lamberherst,  co.  Sussex^  256. 

,  CO.  Kent,  320. 

Lambert,  John,  99,  507. 

...,  William,  538. 

Lambeson,  John,  335. 

,  Isabel  his  wife,  335. 

Lambeth,  Lambehitbe,  co.  Surrey,  356, 451. 

,  charters  dated  at,  307, 995. 

,  Lambehithemersh,  co.  Surrey,  451. 

,  Chirchelambhithe,  co.  Surrey,  154. 

,  South,  Suthlambhith,  co.  Surrey,  456. 

Lambeton,  William,  418,  510. 

Larabfordmylle  [co.  Cornwall],  488. 

Lambstone,  Lamburston,  co.  Pembroke,  119, 

533. 
Lame,  Richard,  348. 
Lamfrone  [co.  Cornwall],  518. 
Lamherbam,  charter  dated  at,  252. 
Lamleder,  Richard,  380. 
Lamonby,  Lanmnby,  co.  Cumberland,  151. 
Lampford,  co.  Devon,  227,  359,  372. 
Lamplewe,  Lamplough,  Thomas,  66,  87. 
Lamplogh,  John,  514. 
Lamport,  co.  Northampton,  416. 

And  see  Langport. 
Lamport,  John,  375. 
Lamunby.    .See  Lamonby. 

T  T 


6ot< 


GENERAL  INDEX. 


Lauam.     See  Lawubum. 

Lanar,  Uichard,  20C. 

J^ancaster,  priory  of  >St.  Mary,  97,  144,  145. 

..,  county  of,  108,  144,  164,  318,  853. 

, ,  chancellor  of,  9,  277,  353. 

,  sheriff  of,  277. 

, ,  escheator  in,  353. 

, ,  justioea  of  the  peace  in,  277. 

,  duchy  of,  164,  197,  438,  439. 

,   ,    receiver    general     of.       See 

Sharpe. 

Lancastre,  Isabel  de,  prioress  of  Amesbary, 

313. 
Landis,  in  Aquitaine,  83. 
Landrake,  Lanrak,  co.  Com  wall,  317. 
Landrian,  co.  Cornwall,  225,  227,  331. 
Landriknose,  co.  Vork,  285. 
Landulph,  Landihiipe,  co.  Cornwall,  215,225, 

476. 

Lane,  Thomas,  211,  214,  561. 

,  William,  264. 

Laaeham  [co.  Norfolk],  193. 

Laneman,  John,  294. 

Langacre,  co.  Devon,  7,  10,  104. 

Langden,  co.  Westmoreland,  169. 

Langdon,  co.  Essex,  193, 292. 

Langeford,  Edward,  492. 

Langeley,  John,  49. 

,   ,  escheator  in   the   county    of 

Northampton,  233. 

Langemede,  John,  412. 

Langenyth.     See  Llangenydd. 

Laugeston,  John,  278. 

Langeton,  Walter  de,  master  of  the  hospital  of 
St.  Leonard,  York,  247. 

Iiangford  Lester,  co.  Devon,  505. 

Langford  Steeple,  StepuUangford,  co.  Wilts, 

546. 
Langford,  John,  48,  72,  268. 

,  Edward,  552,  554. 

,  Thomas,  6. 

Langhale,  Langale,  co.  Norfolk,  286. 
Laugham,  George,  172,  210. 

,  Richard,  210. 

,  Thomas,  210. 

,  William,  parson  of  North  Lufenham, 

13. 
Langholme,  John,  371. 
Laugley,  Langeley,  Langlcgh,  343. 
,  CO.  Hertford,  24,  50. 

And  see  Chiltern  Laugley. 
,  charters  dated  at,  240,  313,  401,  406, 

407. 

,  CO.  Devon,  372. 

,  CO.  Gloucester,  hundred  of,  531. 

,  CO.  Northumberland,  199,  340. 

by  Maidstone,  co .  Kent,  1 5. 

Marsh,  Langley  Mareys,  co.  Bucking- 
ham, 50,  88,  142,  283,  445,  482. 
Langley,  John,  118, 146,  474. 
,  Margaret  his  wife,  146,  47-1. 


Langley,  Tiiomas,  32,  256. 

,  Walter,  564. 

,  William,  143. 

Langman,  Henry,  278. 

Langport,  Lamport,  co.  Somer^e^  108,  412. 

Langport,  Richard,  92,  179. 

, ,  clerk  of  the  counciL  126. 

, ,  rector  of  BradwelL  SO. 

, ,  prebendary  of  St.  Mary  Ottery, 

80. 

Langrigge,  Robert,  234. 

Langshawe,  Henry,  51. 

Langstroth,  Langstorougii,  Langfstraath*  co. 
York,  42,  116,  186,435. 

Langstrothdale,  Langstmathdale,    co.     York. 
186,  189. 

Langstrother,  John,  279. 

, ,  preceptor  of  Balsalcy  52. 

,  Richard,  parson  of  Uig^h  Ongar,  416. 

Langthwaite,  Langthawayte,  co.  York,  1 69. 

Langtoft,  CO.  York,  2,  413. 

Langton,  Longton,  co.  Dorset,  4-43. 

,  CO.  Lincoln,  371. 

CO.  York,  486. 

,  Thorplangton,  co.  Leicester,  1 99. 

,   West,   Westlangton,    co.     L«eice8ter, 

199. 
,  Church,  Kirklangton,  co.  I^icester, 

199. 
Langton,   John  de,    bishop    of    Chichester, 

[1305-1337],  251. 

,  John,  37. 

,  Robert,  207. 

,  Thomas,  35,  268,  450. 

Laugtree,  co.  Devon,  265. 

Lanhem  [co.  Cornwall],  123. 

Lauihome,  Lanyheyron,  co.  Cornwall,   220, 
225,  227. 

Lanley.     See  Lawley. 
Lannargh,  Richard,  46,  211. 

Lanrak.    See  Landrake. 

Lanteglos,  co.  Cornwall,  123,  174,  344. 

Lantemam,  229. 

,  Stephen,  abbot  of,  229. 

Lanyheyron.     See  Lanihorne. 

Lardyner,  Thomas,  44. 

Large,  Joan,  176. 

Larke,  Fetor,  253. 

Lascelles  Hall,  Lasselhall,  co.  York,  525. 

Lasingby.     See  Lazonby. 

Lassington,  co.  Gloucester,  372. 

Latchley,  Latcheley-j  co.  Essex,  131. 

,  Latcheley  Hall,  co.  Essex,  45. 

Lathbury,  Lathebury,  co.  Buckingham,   195, 
369. 

Latheli,  John,  52. 

,  Nicholas,  55,  429,  493. 

Lathum,  John,  3. 

Latimer,  William,  62. 

Laton,  Agnes,  505. 

,  John,  277. 


GENERAL  INDEX. 


659 


LatoD,  Philip,  149,  295. 
Latoner,  William,  419. 
Latton,  CO.  Esbcx,  483. 
Latj?  nier,  J  or  d.     Sec  Ne  vi  lie. 

,  Latointjr,  NicholuM,    111,   178,   20U, 

269,  458,  525,  537. 
Laucher,  Bartholomew,  502. 

Laugharne,  Lagharn,  Tallugharn,  Telagharn, 
[co.  Caermarthen],  34,  111,  826,  431. 
Laughtburgh,  Roger,  385. 
Laughton,  Laghton,  co.  Lincoln,  471. 
Launoeston,  Dunehevetl,  co.  C'oruwali,  19,  64. 

,  burgesses  of,  241. 

,  charter  dated  at,  557. 

Launde,  Henry,  185. 

,  John,  lord  de  la,  438,  470. 

,  Thomas  de  la,  224. 

Launditch,  Laundyssh,  co.  Norfolk,  hundred 
of,  184. 

Laurence,  John,  125,  212,  414,  559. 

,  William,  355,  379. 

Laurens,  Kichard,  507. 

Lanther,  Robert,  53. 

Lavenham,  Lanam,  co.  Suffolk,  179,  197. 

T^TCrstoke,  co.  Wilts,  53. 

Laverton,  co.  Somerset,  23, 362. 

Lavington,  Lavyngton,  co,  Lincoln.  103,  354. 

La  we  Foumesse  [co.  Lancaster],  492. 

Laweles,  Peter,  519,  540. 

Lawelesse,  Simon,  302. 

Laweley.    See  Lawley. 

LawesoD,  William,  669. 

Lawhire,  Lawthier  by  Fowy,  co.  Cornwall, 
483. 

Lawley,  Laweley,  Lanley,  John,  98, 214,  570. 

Lawley,  John,  the  king's  attorney  in  North 
Wales,  123. 

Lax,  John,  387. 

Lazfeld,  819. 

Lazfeld,  Seman  de,  mayor  of  Lincoln,  244. 

Lazton,  Robert,  525. 

Laybourne,  John,  parson  of  Pewsey^  298. 

Laybum,  James,  84. 

,  Nicholas,  34. 

Laykon,  Richard,  451. 

Lasonby,    Lasingby,    co.    Cumberland,  140, 
584. 

Leadenham,  Lcdenham,  co.  Lincoln,  169. 

Leathcrhead,  Lcderede,  co.  Surrey,  479,  545. 

Leathley,  Letheley,  co.  York,  198,  455. 

Leche,  John,  316. 

,  Thomas,  832. 

,  William,  295. 

Lechlade,  Letchelade,  co.  Gloucester,  131. 

Leok,  Lek,  co.  Lancaster,  422. 

Leckonfield,  Lekynfeld,   co.    ^fork,  39,  199, 
445. 

Ledbury,  co.  Hereford,  504. 

Ledenham.     See  Leadenham. 

Leder,  Richard,  37. 

,  Thomas,  490. 


Le.icreilo.     See  Leathcrhead. 

LctloB.     .SVe  Leeds. 

Lcdiiarn,  Thomas,  1.*) 5. 

Lcdys,  .lolm.  521,  .V'^.j. 

Lee,  Juliu  attc,  545. 

,  Ralph,  98,  570. 

,  Roger,  570. 

,  Richard,  300,  316,  410,508,  521,  5.'U) 

553. 

, ,  mayor  of  London,  9,  211,  144. 

,  Thomas,  504. 

,  William,  9,28,  207,  255. 

And  see  Legh. 
Leeds,  Ledes,  co.  Kent,  122. 

,  charter  dated  at,  312. 

[co.  York],  376,  377. 

Leek,   John   de,  sheriff  of   Nottingham  and 
Derby,  67. 

,  William,  viear  of  St.  Stephen,  Coiinan- 

strete,  London,  288. 

Leeming,  Lemyng,  co.  Y'ork,  169. 

Leeu  river,  co.  Nottingham,  4 GO. 

Legat,  Leget,  Thomas,  253. 

Leget,  Richard,  415. 

,  Robert,  119. 

Legge,  Thomas,  504. 

Leggegame,  Robert,  204. 

Legh,  Ralph,  435. 

, ,  sheriff  of  Salop,  518. 

,  Robert,  61,  201. 

,  William,  266. 

And  see  Lee ;  Leigh. 

Legham,  Robert.  205. 

Legmader,  Guillemetus,  527. 

Leggesby,  Legge^by,  oo.  Lincoln,  169. 

Leicester,  195,  330,  360,  503,  549,  550. 

,  mayor  and  bai-gesses  of,  li'M). 

,  mayor  of.     See  Yoman . 

,  statute  of,  134. 

,  letters  patent  dated  at,  176,  185-188, 

191,  199,  203,  242. 

,  college  of  St.  Mary  Ncwerk  at,  1 1,  13. 

,  hospital  of  St.   I^>onard,   master  of. 

See  Matfcne ;  Walter. 

,  monastery  of  St.  Mary  de  Prati8,346, 

463. 

, ,  abbot  and  convent  of,  346,  463. 

, ,  abbot  of,  199. 

, ,  John,  abbot  of,  463,  506. 

,  Richard,  abbot  of,  346,  463. 

,  earl  of.     See  Blaunchmains  ;  Uossu  ; 

FitzPamel ;  Melan  ;  Mountfort. 

,  Robert,  earl  of,  408. 

,  county  of ,  30,  31,  43,  47,    104,  111, 

117,  122,  133,  182,  191,  210,  303,  306, 
358,  354,  445,  446,  448,  481,  532. 

, ,  sheriff  of,  199,  227,  435,480. 

And  see  Grevile ;  Harcourt. 

, ,  escheator  in,  85,  224,  334,  524, 

.')35. 

A  nd  see  AyHsheby. 

T    T    2 


660 


GENERAL  INDEX. 


Lelceeter,  county  of ,  oiUUwries  in,  3, 172,  258, 
316,  320,  503,  506,  511,  512. 

, ,  justices  of  the  peace  in,  330. 

, commissions  of  the  peace  in, 

566. 

I>Mgb,  Legh,  Leighe,  Lough,  Lye,  co.  Essex, 
104,  145,  486,  533. 

,  Legh  Ree,  co.  Essex,  94,  136,  209. 

,  Legh  Durant,  co.  Cornwall,  215.  225, 

476. 

,  CO.  Kent,  318. 

,  CO.  Lancaster,  333. 

,  CO,  Somerset,  443. 

,  CO.  Sussex,  443. 

Leighficld,  Leyfeld,  co.  Rutland,  103,  r.41. 

Leighton  Buzzard,  co.  Bedfonl,  446. 

, ,  prebend  of,  80. 

I/eintwardine,  Levutwardyn    [co.   Hereford], 
182,475. 

Leisebi.     See  Laceby. 

Leixlip,  Lexskep  [co.  Dublin],  59,  337,  374. 

Lek.     .See  Leek. 

Leke,  8imon  de,  543,  544. 

,  Joan  his  wife,  544. 

Lekynfeld.     See  Leckonfield. 
Lelburn,  lioger,  450. 

,  William,  450. 

Le  Mans,  charter  dated  ut,  171. 
Lemyng.     See  Leeming. 
Lemyiige,  co.  Kent,  230. 
l^myngton.     See  Tiymington. 
Lenche,  John,  91,  388. 
Lenhara,  co.  Kent,  404. 
Lenteglos.     See  Lanteglos. 
Lcnton    [co.     Nottingham],    Holy    Trinity, 
Thomas  WoUore,  prior  of,  10. 

,  John  Eimham,  prior  of,  22. 

Leominster,  Leu^mynstre,  co.  Sus*;ox,  443. 

,  priory  of,  73. 

[oo.  Hereford],  monks  of,  305. 

Lepers,  123. 

Lepton,  Ingelram,  224,  450,  4G9,  492. 

Lergeaunt,  Thomas,  415. 

Jicrmore,  John,  414. 

Lermouth,  John  de,  261. 

,  Margaret  his  wife,  261. 

,  Williiim,  261. 

Lesbury,    l,essebury,    co.     Northumberland, 
115,  199,340. 

Lescrop.     See  Scrope. 

Leskert.     Sec  Liskeard. 

Lesnewth,  co.  Cornwall,  hundred  of,  204. 

Lesours,  John,  152. 

Ijesbingham,  Lesyngham,  co.  Norfolk,  74. 

Lessubam,  Richard,  319. 

,  Alice  his  wife,  319. 

liossynton,  John  de,  408. 

Lesyngham.     See  Lcssingham. 

Letcheladc.     Nee  Lcchlade. 

liCtheley.     See  Leathle3'. 

l^ethewode,  co.  Salop,  forest  of,  16. 


Leton,  Robert,  301. 

Letsam,  John,  294. 

Lettele.     See  Netley. 

Lettendale,  co.  York,  116. 

Leuemynstre.    See  Leominster,  443. 

Leokenore,  Lewekenore,  John,  207,  23 1 ,  493, 
494,519. 

,  Jane  bis  wife,  493,  494. 

>Boger,  31,  205,  280»  429,  489,493, 

588,  574. 

,  Thomas,  419,  429,  493. 

,  Elizabeth  his  wife,  419. 

Leutborp.    See  Leventhorpe. 
Levehuid,  co.  Kent,  387,  478,  479,  544. 
Leyell,  Richard,  889. 
Levely,  Hugh,  505. 

,  Thomas,  505. 

Levens,  co.  Westmoreland,  412. 
Leventborpe,  Leuthorp,  John,  32,  528,  565. 

,  ......  the  elder,  338,  339. 

t,  Thomas,  565. 

Leverers,  co.  Cambridge,  77,  521. 
Xjcvermore,  Richard,  4,  172. 
.......  .,  •.•t..|  me  eJucr,  i^o. 

Leverton,  Robert  de,  500. 
Levi,  James,  500. 

,  Ur>*el,  500. 

Lewe,  Henry,  119. 
Lewes,  co.  Sussex,  420. 

,  the  prior  of,  76,  205,  460. 

Lewes,  Gilbert,  278. 

Henry,  139. 

,  Hugh,  529. 

,  John,  420. 

,  Isabel  his  wife,  420. 

Lewie,  William  504. 
Lewton.  .See  Luton, 
l-icwys,  Geoffrey,  437. 

,  Philip,  rector  of  Ncrth  Thoresby,  332. 

:...,  Robert,  257. 

Lexham,  West,  co.  Norfolk,  141. 
Lexintona,  John  de,  140. 
Lexskep.     See  Leixlip. 
licybourne,  Layboume,  co.  Kent,  505. 
Ijeybuni,  Roger  de,  160,  307. 

,  William  de,  62. 

li^yc*,  Henry,  47. 
Leycestre.     See  licicester. 
Leycestre,  Thomas,  545. 
Leycroft,  William,  510. 
Ma  Leye'  [co.  Northampton],  58, 
Leye,  Gilbert  atte,  462. 
Leyfeld.     See  Leighfield. 
Ley  ham,  co.  Essex,  131. 

,  CO.  Suffolk,  111,  200,  458. 

Ley  land,  John,  390. 
Leyn,  Denis,  33. 
Lejne,  John,  450. 
Leyuton,  John,  483,  512. 
I^^-ntwardyn.     See  Leintwardine. 


GENERAL  INDEX. 


661 


Ley  ton »  CO.  Essex,  398. 

LeytoD,  John,  9. 

Lichfield,  co.  Stafford,  360,  422. 

Lichfield,  Lichefeld,  cathedral  of  St.  Chad, 
141. 

, ,  dean  and  chapter  of,  141. 

, ,  dean  of.     See  Heywode. 

Lidde.    See  Lydd. 

Lie,  Bobert,  386. 

,  Roger,  202. 

William,  51. 

And  see  Lye. 

Lieghe.     See  Leigh.  ^ 

LighthameB,  Robert,  302. 

Liken,  Robert,  393. 

And  see  Lygon. 

Likebarogh,  co.  Westmoreland,  169. 

Lilboume,  LyUeborn,  co.  Northampton,  173. 

Lillecharch,  Higham,  co.  Kent,  convent  of, 
189. 

,  Isabel  Wade,  prioress  of,  189. 

,  Margaret  Hoteler,  prioress  of,  194. 

Lilleshnll,  co.  Salop,  abbey  of  St.  Mary,  334. 

,  convent  of,  334. 

,  John,  abbot  of,  193,  331. 

,  Robert  FitzJohn,  abbot  of,  334. 

Lilley,  Lylly,  co.  Hertford,  318. 

Lillingstone,  co.  Oxford,  326. 

Limborg,  517. 

Limeriok,  Lymryk,  in  Ireland,  196,  263. 

,  the  bishop  of,  273. 

Linby,  Lyndeby,  co.  Nottingham,  225,  226. 

Linchlade,  Lynchelade,  co.  Buckingham,  369. 

Lincoln,  3,  26,  39,  68,  HI,  115,  133,  173, 

178,  179,  208,  244,  266,  270,  276,  277, 
282,  351,  352,  382,  468,  470,  485,  494, 
499,  500,  531. 

,  mayor  and  citizens  of,  291,  499. 

,  mayor    of.      See  Burton;    Blytou; 

Grantham  ;  Laxfeld  ;  Pemberton  ; 
Williamson;  Witton. 

,  sheriff  of.     See  Caldebeke. 

,  earl  of.      See   Gant ;    I^cy  j   Mes- 

chines;  Romara. 
,  outlawry  in,  178. 

,  charters  dated  at,  139,  236,  243,  251, 

400,  407-409,  494,  499,  558. 

,  letters  patent  dated  at,  7,  13,  34,  35. 

diocese  of,  13,   17,  73,  80,  107,  155, 

179,  181-183,  185,  210,  263,  272,  339, 
880,886,483,466,517. 

bishop  of,  806,  408. 

And  see  Chedworth ;  AInewyk ;  Beau- 
fort ;  Bokyngham  ;  Burghernh  ; 
Cbesoey ;  Repiiigdou. 

,  cathedral  of,  prebend    of  Leighton 

Buzzard  in,  80. 

, dean  and  chapter  of,  243,  494, 

,  archdeaconry  of,  272. 

,  St.  Katharine  without,  prior  and  con- 
vent of,  500. 

,  hospital  of  the  Holy  Innoccntit  called 

Mnlardry  at,  123. 


I 


Lincoln,  weavers  or  websterM  of,  472. 
,  houses  of  Jews  in,  500. 

,  county  of,  30,  34,  35,  40,  59,  75,  91, 

111,  117,  130,  133,  144,  191,  199,  213, 
272,  281,  302,  313,  333,  347,  376,  377, 
481,  528. 

, ,   sheriff  of,  34,   41,    135,   202, 

491. 

And  see  Burgh  ;  Blount ;  Skipwith. 

,   ,    cscheator   in,    220,  224,  2S'Jy 

332,345,  353,  380,  455,  524,  535. 

And  see  Morlcy ;  Burgh. 

, ,outlawrieH  in,  1,4,  49,  173,  174, 

257,  319,  320,  410,  416,  419,  501,  502, 
505-507. 

,  county  of,  conservation  of  rivers  in, 

223. 

, ,  the  Parts  of  Holland,  26,  35,  39, 

242. 

,   ,   ,    commissions    of    tlio 

peace  in,  566. 

, ,  the  parts  of  Kesteven,  242,  272. 

,    ,    ,    commissions    of    the 

peace  in,  567. 

, ,  the  parts  of  Lindsev,  26,  39, 

83,  101,  205,  272. 

..........    ,    ,    commissions    of    the 

peace  in,  567. 
Lincoln,  Edmund  dc,  393. 

,  Adam  de,  500. 

,  Fionas  de,  500. 

,  Martin  de,  500. 

,  Joan  de,  500. 

,  Alexander  de,  500. 

..........  Robert,  263. 

Lindsell,  Lindesele,   Lyndesclc,    co.    Kssex, 
180,  205. 

Lineford,  William  dc,  267. 

Linford,  Lyneford,  Great,    co.  Buckingham, 
143,  440. 

,  Little,  ?26. 

Linton,  Lyntou,  co.  York,  198,  45 1. 

,  Lynton  on  Owse,  co.  York,  113,  141, 

361. 

[co.  Cambridge],  priory  of,  46. 

Linwood,  Lyndewode,  co.  Lincoln,  195,  227, 
845. 

,  Lynwod  Beaumont,  179. 

,  Lyndewode  Bayons,  345. 

Lionel,  duke  of  Clarence,  son  of  Edward  III., 
346,  463. 

Lire,  in  Normandy,  abbey  of  St.  Mary,  161. 

Liskcard,  Leskeit,  co.  Cornwall,  11,  23. 

Liston,  CO.  Kssex,  72. 

Overhall,  CO.  Ekscx,  228. 

Litchct  Maltravers,   Ijychct   Mautruvcrs.   co. 
Dorset,  443. 

Litchurch,  Lukchirchc,  co.  Derby,  226. 

Litelton,  William,  452. 

And  see  Littleton. 

Litelwere,  co.  Devon,  372. 

Litster,  Richard,  85. 

Littehous,  co.  Westmoreland,  109. 


062 


GENERAL  INDEX. 


LitteltoD,  Litclton,  Thomas,  459,  477,  489, 
491,  492,  512,  529,  530,  550,  552,  561, 
569,  570,  574-577. 

, justice  of  the  Bench,  515,  516. 

Littlecote,  Litelcote,  co.  Wilts.  90. 
Littleham,  co.  Devon,  265. 
LittliugtoD,   Lvtlyngton,  co.   Cambr»d|re,  66, 
181,  169. 

Litton,  CO.  York,  186. 
Littondale,  co.  York,  186. 
Livcdon,  Lyveilon.co.  Northumpton,  153. 
Llanaber  [co.  Merioneth],  357. 
Llauarmavn,  co.  Denbigh.  424. 
Llandaff,  diocese  of,  93,  106,  229,  370. 
LlaneguyfiiU.     Sro  Llangynhufal. 
Llaneilian,  Llaiielvan,  127. 
Llangedwin,  Lhingeduoyn,  co.  Denbigh,  424. 
Llangefelaeh,    Llaiigeveywagh    [co.  Glamor- 
gan], 420. 

Llangenydd,  Langenyth,  co.  Glamorgan, 
prior}'  of,  148. 

,  abbot  and  convent  of,  472. 

,  alien  abbot  of,  215,  282. 

Llangeview,  Llangeveu,  co.  Monmouth,  425. 
Llangot,  in  South  Wales,  360. 
Llangynhafal,   Llaneguyfiill    [co.    Denbigh], 
John,  abbot  of,  37. 

Llanisbcn,  Llanyssen,  co.  Monmouth,  425. 

Llanllogh,  co.  (..'aermartheu,  112. 

Llannoryn.     See  Llanwrin. 

Llannynnys  [co.  Denbigh],  51. 

Llanrhaiadr  in  Kinmerch,  Llanrayadur  in 
Kynmerch,  co.  Denbigh,  194. 

in  Mochuant,  Llanrather  Moghtenet, 

CO.  Denbigh,  182,  424. 

Llanrhidian,  Llanrydian,  co.  Glamorgan,  426. 
Llanstephan,  Lanstephan   [co.  Caermarthen] , 
114. 

Llantbomas,  co.  Monmouth,  425. 

Llanvas  [co.  Anglesea],  382. 

Llanwrin,  Llanoryu  [co.  Montgomery],  273. 

Llanycil  in  Penlyn  [co.  Merioneth],  182. 

Llannyssen.     See  Llanishen. 

Lloit,  David,  parson  of  Llanj'cil,  182. 

,  Owin,  rector  of  Hodnet,  55. 

,. , ,  rector  of  Towyn,  55. 

Lloyt,  David,  parson  of  Dy sserth,  27. 

Tilymman  stream,  co.  Monmouth,  425. 

Lobbok,  John,  255. 

Lobthorpe,  eo.  Lincoln,  507.  * 

Lockerley,  Lokerly,  co.  Southampton,  215, 
216,299,430,462,482. 

Lockhay,  Lokhawe  [co.  Derby],  32. 

Lockington,  Lokyngtou,  co.  York,  143. 

Locock,  John,  master  of  the  fraternity  of 
tailors,  London,  463. 

Locre.     See  Lucker. 

Loddington  by  Rothwell,  co.  Northampton, 
256. 

Loddiswell,  Lodeswyll,  co.  Devon,  173. 


Lode,  Bottisham  Lode,  co.  Cambridge,  195. 

Lodelowe.     See  Ludlow. 

Lodelowe,  John,  5. 

Loderey,  co.  Dorset,  443. 

Lodres,  co.  Dorset,  priory  of,  70,  97,  144. 

Lodyngton,  Andrew,  416. 

,  John,  416. 

,  Richard,  416. 

Logay,  John,  523. 
Loghameys.     See  Lughameys. 
Logh  Rygge.     See  Loughrigg. 
Lok,  John,  4,  94. 

, ,  sheriff  of  London,  193,  512. 

, sheriff  of  Middlesex,  211. 

Lokerley.     See  Lockerley. 
Lokhawe.     See  I^ckhay. 
Lokton,  John,  304. 

Thomas,  68,  281,  351,  487,  560. 

Lokwode,  Thomas,  450,  553. 
Lokynton.  See  Lockington. 
Lokyngton,  John,  206,  234. 

,  Richard,  3. 

Lollam,  John,  320. 
Lollards,  statute  against,  134. 
liombardy,  Lombards,  11.  130,  276,  390 
Lombe,  VV^illiam,  314. 
Lomley.     See  Lumley. 
Loroolin,  Jerome,  302. 

John,  302. 

303. 

Lomyngiston.     See  Lnllingstone. 
Londay.     See  Lundy. 
Londe,  William,  3. 

,  Thomas,  3. 

,  Joan  his  wife,  3. 

London,  1-6,  9,  10,  16,  17,  19,  21,  24-28,  34, 
35,  39-42,  47-50,  54,  55,  57, 59,  60,  64, 
65,  69-72,  86,  89,  90,  92,  101,  103, 
111-114,  121-123,  125,  126,  130,  138, 
141,  143,  144,  148,  162,164,  172,  174- 
177,  180,  182,  183,  189,  193,  194,  196, 
200,  202,  204,  210,  211,  213,  216,  222, 
225,  229,  232,  238,  243,  248,  263-259, 
261,  262,  265,  266,  268,  270,  272,  273, 
275-277,  279,  282-285,  287-289,  291, 
292,  294-297,  308,  306,  308,  318-^20. 
322-826,  381,  337,  344,  347,  851,  852, 
355,  356,  360,  863,  371,  878,  379,  381, 
382,  385,  387,  389,  410-414,  416-420, 
423, 433,  435,  440,  442,  448,  458,  458, 
459,  462,  468,  470,  478,  476, 478,  482, 
4i?6-488,  490,  501-512,  515,  516,  519- 
521,  525,  529-531,  536,  540,  542,  544, 
545-5.'50,  553. 

,  letters  patent  dated  at,  14,  57,  89,  96, 

97. 

,  charters  dated  at,  299,  307,  896,  898, 

400,  403,  406,  407. 

,  mayor  and  citizens  of,  246,  285. 

mayor  of,  69.  70,  202,  219,  223,  405. 

And  see  Lee  ;  Frowyk  ;  "Wyche ;  Cooke; 
EjTC  ;  Gedney ;  Philippe ;  Josselyn  ; 
Verney ;  Yonge. 


H 


I 


GENERAL  INDEX. 


663 


London,  sbcriffH  of,  25,  26,  4)»60,  112,  17", 
200,  216,  219,  231,  260,  262,  272,  277, 
282,  288,  299,  825,  552. 

And  see  Catwortli ;  C'lopton ;  Ireland  ; 
Lok  ;  Hampton ;  James ;  Basset ; 
Mnschamp;  Stone;  Tate;  Constan- 
tyne  ;  Waver ;  Bromer ;  Bryee. 

,  ontlawries  in,  1-6,  172-174,  258-259, 

284,295,314-320,381,  410-420,  440, 
470,  476,  500-511,  519,  521. 

,  bishop  of.     See  Kempe ;  Bynte worth ; 

Faucomberge  ;  Kly ;  Beaumes. 

,  diocese  of,  9,  80.83,  263,  S91,  296, 

300,  339,  466. 

,  recorder  of.     See  Ursewyk. 

,  Hubsidy  and  olnage  of  cloth  iu,  217, 

218,  280. 

,  St.  Paurs  Cathedral,  17,  20. 

, ,  dean  and  chapter  of,  236,  326. 

, ,  dean  of.     See  Say. 

, ,  chan  3ellor  of.     See  Sever. 

,  .......  charnel-house  of,  420,  511. 

, ,  chantry  founded  in,  421. 

, ,  prebend  of  Brownswood  in,  20. 

, prebend  of  Caddington  Major 

in,  543. 

,  St.  Katharine  by  the  Tower,  hospital 

of,  140,  191,362,478. 

, ,    warden,  or    master   of.     See 

Treyilian. 

, ,  master,  brethren  and  sisters  of, 

103,  140. 

,  Charterhouse  by,  prior  and  convent 

of,  141,  155,  168,  176. 

, ,  John  Luscot,  prior  of,  155, 168. 

,  Holy  Trinity,  prior  and  convent  of, 

10. 

,  St.  Mary  Graces  by  the  Tower,  abbot 

and  convent  of,  162. 

, ,  William,  abbot  of,  162. 

Fraternity  of  Sixty  Priests  of,  516. 

,  House  of  Converts,  82,  147. 

,  Guildhall,  the,  462,  522. 

,  New  Temple,  charters  dated  at,  244, 

246. 

,  Temple  Bar,  196,  356,  381,  388,  471, 

507,  519,  550. 

,  hospital  of  St,  Antony,  11,  U7. 

,  Friars  Preachers  of,  524. 

,  hospital  of  St.  Giles,  136,  137. 

, ,  William    Sutton,    warden    of, 

123,  136. 

,  Wests  my  thf eld,      hospital      of     St. 

Bartholomew,  828,  497. 

, ,    John    Waker}*ng,    master   of 

823,414, 

, ,  Reginald  f'olyer,  prior  of,  497. 

,  sisters  Minorca os  without  Algate,  88. 

,  ward  of  Crcpulirate,  218. 

,  ward  of  Faryndon  Without,  127,  486. 

,  Newgate  gaol,  204,  5.30. 

Old  Jewry,  462. 

,  Walbrook.  .Vj6. 


London,  1e  Barbican,  188. 

,  Baynardescastell,  131,300. 

, ,  ward  of,  103,  354. 

,  Bishopsgate,  188. 

•«., ,  ward  of,  522,  553. 

,  Blankechnpelton,  444. 

,  Queenhithe,  18,  282. 

,  Charing  Cross,  Claringcroucho,  1 1, 45. 

, chapel  of  St.  Mary  Konsivale 

by,  214. 

, ,  hermitage  of  St.  Katharine  by, 

214. 

, , '  Kyng  of  Scottis  ground  '  by, 

214. 

,  Cordwainer  Street,  462. 

,  Kyrounlanc,  162. 

,  ('rokc<llanc,  12,  187,  458. 

,  Coldeharburgh,   Coldeharhurghlane, 

7,  10,  104. 

,    St.    John's     Street    without    West 

Smithfield,  214. 

,  Fleet  Street,  486. 

,  Pawleswharf,  180,356. 

,  Tower  wharf,  191,  441,  478. 

,  Distaflanc,  297,  487. 

Byllyngesgate,  88,  464,  548. 

,  The  Vintry,  88,  464,  482,  548. 

,  Tamystrete,  854,  462. 

,  Lymestrete,  88,  464,  548. 

,  Bradstrete,  867,  521,  522,  .553. 

,  Knyghtriderstrete,  88,  464,  548. 

, « Lcdenhair  in,  285. 

,  Whittyngtoo  College,  482. 

,  Guildehalla  Teutonicorum,  261,  529. 

,  Moleyna  Inn,  196. 

,  the  king's  wardrobe  in,  120. 

, '  Princewardrobe '  in,  260. 

, 'Qnene   Janes    warderobo'  by  Ald- 

richegate,  48,  52. 

,  barber-surgeons  of,  109. 

,  goldsmiths  of,  242. 

saddlers  of,  259. 

,  tallow-chandlers  of,  237,  367,  522. 

,  weavers  of,  159. 

,  brokers  iu,  260. 

,  girdlersof,  200. 

,  ironmongers  of,  297 . 

,  tailors  of,  367,  463,  522. 

,  drapers  of,  537. 

fiondou  churches  : 

Allhallows,  Barking,  428. 

St.  Andrew  Hubbard,  300. 

St.  Antony,  547. 

St.  Christopher  le  Stocks,  Bradstrete,  180, 
367,521. 

St.  James,  (larlick  Hithe,  462. 

St.  John  Zakftrie,  217. 

St.  Leonard,  K*«tchepe,  288. 

St.  Margaret,  Brigge*tn'te,  505. 

St.  ^lartin  K-  Grand,  154. 

.  deniKTv  of.  519. 


064 


GENERAL  INDEX. 


London  clmrehcs — cont. 

St.  Martin  le  Grand,  deun  of.     Sec  Stilling- 
ton. 

St.  Stephen,  Colmanstrete,  288. 

,  Walbrook,  211,  444. 

St  Thomas,  Aeon,  3C7»  522. 

London  parishes  : 

AUhallows,  Staining,  Mark  Tjaue,  449,  462, 
522. 

,  Watlyngstrete,  115. 

,  in  the  WaU,  188. 

Holy  Trinity,  Knightrider  street,  434. 

St.  Andrew,  Holbom,  381. 

,  by  the  Wardrobe,  484. 

St.  Anne  by  Aldrichegate,  199,  213. 

St.  Benet,  88,  464,  568. 

,  Baynard's  Castle,  103,  354. 

,  Sherehog,  448,  522. 

St.  Botolph  without  Aldgate,  57. 

,  in  Aldrychgate,  70,  188,  361. 

St.  Christopher,  319,  367,  521,  553. 

St.  Clement  Danes,  818,  356,  386,  471,  507, 

519,  550. 
St.  Dionis  Backehurch,  404. 
St.  Dunstan  in  the  East,  459. 
St.  Giles  without  Crepulgate,  154. 
St.  James,  Garlick  Hithe,  462. 
St  Katheiine  Colman,  190,  213. 
St  Lawrence,  Jewry,  287,  288,  462. 
St  Magnus,  475. 
St.  Margaret,  Bruggestrete,  187. 

,  Crokedlane,  458. 

St.  Martin  without  Ludgate,  127,  486. 

in  the  Vintry,  170,  182. 

Orgar,42,  187,  458. 

St.  Mary,  Aldermarysbury,  475. 

,  Berkyng,  92. 

,  le  Strand,  174,  356. 

,  Whitechapel  without  Aldgate,  248. 

,  Woolchurch,  403. 

St.  Michael,  Croked  Lane,  187,  458. 

,  Wood  Street,  218. 

,  Paternoster  Royal,  4S2. 

St  Peter,  Comhill,  367,  522,  553. 

le  Poor,  367,  521,  522,  i)53. 

in  the  Tower,  433. 

St.  Sepolchre  without  Newgate,  509. 
St  Stephen,  Colmanstrete,  287,  288. 
,  Walbrook,  122,  435. 

London,  Tower  of,  1 1,  16,  18,  19,  23,  43,  47, 
50,  52,  69,  85,  96,  113,  126,  181,  183, 
168,  191,  269,  870,  371,  395,  478,  538. 

,   ,  charters  dated  at,  162,  168, 

240,  242,  307,  401. 

, ,  porter  in,  9,  10. 

, ,  *  Postryn '  gate  of,  478. 

...,  armoury  in,  9,  89,  96,  121,  143. 

...,  lions  in,  14,  47,  323. 

, ,  coinage,  mint  and  exchange  in, 

18,    23,  40,  113,   130,  190,  213,  347, 
370,442,475,517,551, 


London,  Tower  of,  keeper  of,  190,  347,  475, 
551. 

, ,  controller  of.     See  Saintlegere . 

, 'Powderhous'  in,  23. 

, ,  constable  of,  31. 

And  see  Tiptoft. 

, ,  Wakefield  tower  In,  85,  538. 

,  Westsmythfeld  tower  in,  85,  538. 

, ,  privy  wardrobe  in,  127,  186. 

.  I.......  •■•...,  warQ  or,  vOv. 

port  of,  97,  137,   145,   156,158,   168, 

190,  192,  213,  222,  275,  321,  325,  331, 
879,  536,  545. 

, ,  customs  and  subsidies  in,   10, 

13,  14,  22,  59,  61,  92,  95,  107,  117, 
131,  143,  150,  198,  229,  263,  269,  275, 
283,  295,  328,  343,  363,  423,  432,  448, 
466,  472,  487,  514. 

,  .......  butler  in,  11. 

, ,  tronage  and  pesnge  in,  11,  386, 

514. 

,  scrutiny  in,   17,  20,  52,   121, 

586,  545. 

, ,  tronage  of  wools  in,  92. 

, ,  customers  in,  93,  128,  223,  275, 

363,  466,  484,  516. 

,  ship  called  le  Marie  of,  211. 

ship  called  le  Tiinite  of,  21 1. 

London,  John,  206. 

, ,  parson  of  Brink  worth,  420. 

,  Benedict  de,  500. 

,  Floriade,  500, 

,  Matilda  de,  500. 

,  Thomas  de,  500. 

,  Salamon  de,  500. 

,  Roger,  507. 

,...,  Thomas,  173. 

,  William,  173,  175. 

Lonesdale,  William,  143. 

Long,  Longe,  Henry,  98,  99,  203,  575. 

John,  32,  416. 

,  Nicholas,  258. 

,  Thomas,  89,  124,  514,  525. 

,  William,  168,  414,  512. 

Longchamp,  William  de,  chancellor  of 
Richard  I.,  404. 

Longespee  or  Meuland,  Roger,  bishop  of 
Coventry  and  Lichfield  [1257-1295], 
160. 

Longhaugh,  Langehalgh,  co.  Northumber- 
land, 841. 

Longhope,  Langhope,  co.  Gloucester,  159, 
268,  533. 

Longley  Mareys.    See  Langley  Mareys. 

Long  Melford,  co.  Suffolk,  113. 

Longney,  Longeuey,  co.  Gloucester,  424. 

Longo  Campo,  Henry  de,  267. 

Longton.     See  Lmgton. 

Longvile,  Richard,  382. 

Longvillers,  in  France,  abbot  and  convent  of, 
218,  269. 

Longvyle,  priory  of.    See  Newnton  Longville. 


GENERAL  INDEX. 


OGo 


LoDsdale,  Lonnesdale,  co.  York,  445,  4C1. 

TiOoe,  Eufit,  Estloo  [co.  Coruwall],  4 IS. 

Loppehamd  in  Carleton,  co.  Cambridge,  521. 

Lord,  Thomas,  204. 

Lorde,  Heniy,  552. 

Lordes,  co.  Dorset,  443. 

Lorraine,  Lotrik,  517. 

,  Godfrey,  dake  of,  499. 

Lorymer,  Edmund,  208. 

Lostwithiel,  co.  Cornwall,  43,  270,  452,  488. 

,  boigesses  of,  221. 

,  exchequer  of,  461. 

Lothinffland,      Lnddyngland,    co.     Suffolk, 
handred>of,  480,  480. 

Lotorell.     See  Lnttrell. 

Lotrik.    See  Lorraine. 

Lott,  John,  412. 

Lotterigge,  co.  Cornwall,  372. 

Lough.     See  Leigh, 

Loughborough,   Loughburgh,    Loughtburgh, 
CO.  Leicester,  103,  354. 

,  charter  dated  at,  239, 

Loughrigg,  Logh  Rygge,  co.  Westmoreland, 
169. 

Loughton,  Thomas,  258,  318. 

Louis  ap  flowcU,  229. 

I^and  in  Luthyoglond,  co.  Suflolk,  256. 

Lounde,  Alexander,  451. 

Loure,  Nicholas,  83,  553. 

Louth,  Lowyth,  in  Ireland,  466. 

...,  CO   Lincoln,  449,  508. 

Louthe,  Alice,  449. 

,  John,  175,449. 

,  Bichard,  175. 

,  Robert,  418. 

,  Simon,  449. 

Louther,  Hugh,  61. 

William,  61. 

Love,  John,  420. 

Loveday,  John,  410. 

LoreU,  John,  87,  473,  474,  550. 

Joan  his  wife,  478,  474. 

,  John,  of  Lorell,  43,  346. 

,  John  de,  85. 

•...,  Alice  his  wife,  85. 

,  Matilda,  abbess  of  Komscy,  182. 

,  Bichard,  85,  889,  560. 

•.. ,  Thomas.  205,  415. 

» Walter,  417. 

,  William,  of  Lorell,  222. 

, Alice  his  wife,  222. 

Low,  John,  bishop  of  Bochcstcr  [1414-1467], 
132,  194,  566. 

Lowe,  John,  28. 

,  Bichard,  234. 

Lowes,  Henry,  267. 

Loweson,  William,  349. 

Lowestoft,  CO.  Suffolk,  430,  480. 

Lowther,  Henry,  sheriff  of  Cumberland,  253. 

,  Hu«rh,  the  elder,  562. 


I 


Loxton,  CO.  Somerset,  178,  537. 
^y^g^t  Matthew,  83. 
Lucas,  Hugh,  343. 

,  John,  prebendary  of  St.  Stephen*.^, 

Westminster,  17. 

,  Richard,  52. 

Luccans,  276. 

Lucerne.     See  Luscrnc. 

Luckcr,  Locre,  Lukre,  co.  Northumberland, 
118,199,340. 

Luckington,  Lukton,    [in   Kilmersdon],  co. 
Somerset,  421. 

Lucombe,  Thomas,  561. 

Lucy,  Anthony  de,  329. 

,  Thomas  de,  329. 

,    Godfrey,    bishop     of      Winchester 

[1189-1204],  404. 

,  Dame  Margaret,  491. 

,  Matilda,  551. 

,  Eleanor,  551. 

,  Richard  de,  167,  306,  :i92,  402. 

,  William,  551. 

, ,  Margaret  his  wife,  551. 

Luddenham,  co.  Kent,  330. 

Luddyngland.     .See  Lothingland. 

Lnddyngton,  John,  88. 

Ludford,  CO.  Lincoln,  169,  196,  226,  227. 

,  Long,  387. 

,  CO.  Salop,  542, 

And  see  Lydford. 

Ludford,  William,  parson  of  Rurford,  60. 

Ludgershall,  Lndgurshale,  co.  Wilte,  15,  78, 
331,  388. 

,  charter  dated  at,  496. 

Ludlow,  CO.  Salop,  54,  79,  317,  542. 

,  hospital  of  St  John  Baptist  at,  542. 

,  letters  patent  dated  at,  57,  97. 

Lndlowe,  William,  98,570. 

Lufenham,  North,  co.  Butland,  13. 

Luge,  William,  492. 

Lugge,  Boger,  490. 

Luggesford,  Bichard,  545. 

Loghameys,  Loghameys,  the  parts  of,  in  the 

marches  of  Wales,  1 14,  428. 
liUgwardine,  Lugwardyn,  151. 
Lukchirche.     See  Litchirche. 
Lukre.    See  Lucker. 
Lukton.     See  Luckington. 

LuUingstone,  Lomyngiston,  co.    Kent,  423, 
521. 

Lullmgton,  eo.  Somerset,  509. 

LuUyngdcn,  Thomas,  413. 

Lumley,  Lomley,  Geoige,  30,  66,84, 427,576. 

)  I    sheriff    of    Northumberland, 

332. 

>  John,    parson  of  Hampstead  Mar- 

chall,  9. 

,  Robert,  63. 

,  Thomas,  30,  66,  84,  102,  427,  580. 

f  ...•••,   of   Lumlev,    233,    588,    569. 

576. 


666 


GENERAL  INDEX. 


Lumnour,  William,  568. 

Lundy,  Londay,  co.  Devon,  225,  226,  454. 

Lune,  Galias  de,  194. 

Larnick,  Conrad,  231. 

Luscote,  John,  prior  of  the  C'hartcrhouse  by 
London,  155. 

Luske,  CO.  Dublin,  117. 
LuDsianeston,  in  Ireland,  117. 
Lute,  John,  489. 

,  Thomas,  288. 

Luter,  Robert,  53. 

Luterell.     See  Luttrell. 

Lnthington,  Luthyngton,  John,  34,  152,  383, 

529. 
Luton,  Lewton,  co.  Bedford,  121,  506,  549. 
Latte,  John,  314. 
Luttrell,  Loterell,  Luterell,  Alexander,  19. 

,  James,    19,   30,   32,   99,   231,    28G, 

367. 

, ,  Elizabeth  his  wife,  231,  286. 

Luxemburgh,  James,  lord  of  Kichebourg, 
439. 

Luxford,  Richard,  32. 

Luxulian,  co.  Cornwall,  488. 

Lazerne,  Lucerne,  in  Normandy,  abbot  of, 

108,  150. 
Lychet  Mautravew.     See  Litchet  Maltravers. 
Lydd,  Lidde,  co.  Kent,  88,  465,  548. 
I     Lydford,  Ludford,  co.  Somerset,  7,  9,  104. 

,  CO.  Devon,  360. 

Lydley,  co.  Salop,  443. 

Lydney,  Lyeney,  co.  Glouceflter,  169,  533. 

Lydyard,  Thomas,  263. 

Lye  [co,  Salop],  98. 

And  see  Leigh. 
Lye,  William,  47. 
Lyffyn,  Thomas,  258. 
Lygon,  Lygen,  Thomas,  98,  Sr^S,  575. 
Lyhert.    See  Hert. 

Lykesdale  in  Broughton  [co.  Lancaster],  492. 
Lylbourne,  John,  11. 
Lylleburn.    See  Lilbourne. 
Lymbury,  Thomas,  276. 
Lyme,  co.  Dorset,  87,  108. 
Lymerik,  Lymeryk,  Thomas,  327,391,491, 

531,  564. 
Lymington,  Lemyngton,    co.    Southampton, 

429,  443. 

,  Old,  70,  119,  152. 

,New,  70,  119,  152. 

Lymryk.    See  Limerick. 

Lynallys,  Lynalsse,  Hugh,  176,  511. 

Lynche,  co.  Sussex,  443. 

Lynche,  Germyn,  warden  of  coinage  in  Ire- 
land, 40. 

Lynde,  John,  6- 

,  Thomas,  eschcator  in  Oxford  and 

Berks,  327. 

Lyndley,  Richard,  606. 

Lyndenwode,  co.  Worcester,  357. 

Lyndesaye,  David,  191. 


;    Lyndesele.     See  Lindsoll. 

■  Lyndewode,  Master  Willimn,  keeper  of  the 
privy  seal  of  Henry  VI.,  310, 

Lyndhurst,  Lyndeherst,  co.  Southampton, 
125,  547. 

,  charter  dated  at,  158. 

Lyneford.     See  Linford. 

Lyng,  Richard,  505. 

Lynn,  Lenn,  co.  Norfolk,  port  of,  12,  20,  117, 
213,  240,  295,  432. 

,  ship  called  la  Marie  Talbot  of,  203, 

,/e  Marie  Thomson  of,  203. 

,  South,  4,  188,435. 

,  Bishop's,  28,  82,  81,   141,  142,317, 

319,  414,  441,  523. 

, ,  port  of,  188,  211,303,  464. 

, ,  guild  of  St.  George  in,  141. 

Lynne,  Alice,  92. 

,  John, 323. 

Lynston,  William,  53. 

Lynton,    See  Linton. 

Lynton,  John,  387,  485. 

,  Robert  de,  55,  191. 

,.,  Walter  de,  master  of  the   hospital 

of  Burton  St.  Lazams  of  Jerusalem, 
136. 

Lyon,  Edward,  313. 

Lyons,  charters  dated  at,  308,  396,  398. 

Lysle,  John,  88,  202,  571. 

,  viscoimt.     See  Talbot. 

Lysse,  co.  Southampton,  266. 

Lystenesdon,  co.  Devon,  227.  359,  372. 

Lytelton,  William,  491. 

Lythyerd,  Richard,  289. 

Lytley,  Thomas,  196. 

Lytulhales,  John,  490. 

Lyuster,  John,  818. 

Lyvedon.     See  Livcdon. 


M. 


Maas  river,  517. 

Mablethorpe,  Malberthorp,  co.  Lincoln,  199, 
454. 

Macclesfield,  co.  Chester,  burgesses  of,  477. 

Machee,  John,  467. 

Machnant.     See  Mochnant. 

Machon,  Ralph,  55. 

Mackney,  Makeney,  co.  Berks,  502. 

Maddy,  Simon,  502. 

Madeles,    in    They  don    Garnon,  co.    Essex, 
116,  356. 

Madford,  Madeford,  co.  Devon,  212,  372. 

Madson,  John,  320. 

Madyson,  Ralph,  135. 

Magor,  Magoure  [co.  Monmouth],  114. 

Maiden  Bradley,  co.  Wilts  501. 


GENERAL  INDEX. 


667 


Maidenhead,  Mcdynhitli,  co.  Berks,  303. 

MaidoQwell,  John,  75. 

Maidstone,  Majdeston,  co.  Kent,  5,  36,  88, 

279,  465',  548. 
Maior,  Thomas,  279. 
Maire,  Henry,  112. 
Maistre,  Thomas,  parson    of   Kelscy  Marie, 

185. 
Makaghhom,  Donald,  538. 

,  John  his  son,  538.. 

Makeney.    See  Mackney. 
Makcney,  Henry,  502. 
Makrowe,  John,  374. 

,  Richard,  374. 

,  WilUam,  374. 

Malardry.     See  Lincoln. 

Malherthorp.     See  Mahlethorpc. 

Maldiche,  co.  Wilts,  79. 

Maldon,  Maudon,   co.  Essex,    hurgcsses  of, 

306. 
Male,  Thomas,  502. 
Malcber,  Nicholas,  83. 
Malet,  Hogh,  62. 

,  Walter,  156. 

Maleverer,  Malyverer,  John,  29,  577. 

Malines,  517. 

Malketon,  co.  Cambridge,  461. 

Mallerstang,  Malverstang,  co.  Westmoreland, 
186,  189,  434. 

,  forest  of.  111. 

Mailing,  Mallyog,  co.  Kent,  88,  465,  548. 

P>wt,  221. 

,  West,  256. 

Mabnesbury,  co.  Wilte,   137,  297,  481,  507, 
510. 

,  letters  patent  dated  at,  40,  99,  575. 

,  abbey  of,  228. 

,  abbot  and  convent  of,  64,  210,  297, 

481,  498. 

,  John,  abbot  of,  575. 

,  John  Andever,  abbot  of,  210. 

,  Dan  John  Ayly,  abbot  of,  228. 

Malmesbnry,  Master  Roger,  parson  of  Bisley, 

129. 
Malorry,  Malore,  Robert,  279,  476. 
Malpace,  William,  184. 
Malpas,  David,  77. 

,  John,  51. 

,  Joan  his  wife,  51. 

,  Philip,  228,  381,410. 

Malrede.    See  Meldreth. 

Maltby,  Malteby,  co.  York,  113,  141,  361. 

Malteman,  John,  514. 

Malton,  CO.  York,  348. 

Malverstang.     See  Mallerstang. 

Malyn,  William,  414. 

Malyson,  Andrew,  383. 

Malyverer.     See  Maleverer. 

Manby,  Mandeby,  co.  Lincola,  169. 

,  by  Grymolby,  co.  Lincoln,  468. 

Mancarston.     See  Mangerton. 


Manchester,  John  Bothe,  master  of  the  colle- 
giate church  of,  464. 

Mandeby.     See  Manby. 

Mandevilla,  William  de,  342. 

Mandeville,  Geoffrey,  earl  of  Essex,  62, 

Maners,  John,  193. 

..,  Robert,  66,  117, 118,  450. 

Joan  his  wife,  117. 

Manery,  William,  206. 

Mangerton,  Mancarston,  in  Scotland,  468. 

Manley,  co.  Lincoln,  wapentake  of,  451. 

Mannebriggc.     See  Mansbridge. 

Mannebrigge,  John  de,  337. 

Mannok,  Robert,  314. 

Mannyng,  Thomas),  470. 

Manorbier,    Manorbery,    Maynerbcare,    co. 
Pembroke,  7,  9,  104. 

Manory,  William,  317.  » 

Mansbridge,  Mannebrigge,  co.  Southampton, 
387. 

hundred  of,  337. 

Mansell,  John,  provost  of  Beverley,  408. 

Manser,  Ralph,  60. 

Mansfield,  Maonsfeld,  co.  Nottingham,   22, 
49,  134,  220,  225,  226. 

Manthorp,  James,  2Z,  88,  101. 

Manyngham,  John,  414,  .508,  559. 

Oliver,  549. 

Maperton,  co.  Somerset,  333,  859,  360,  365. 

And  see  Mapperton. 

Mapledurham,  Mapildertiam,  Mapildram,  co. 
Oxford,  73. 

Maplethorp,  John,  316. 

Mapperton,  Maperton,  co.  Dorset,  108,  225, 
226,  454. 

March,  earldom  of,  18,  51,  71,  196,  268. 

,  earl  of.     See  Edward ;  Richard. 

March  and  Ulster,  earls  of,  326. 

Marchall,  John,  5,  413,  506. 

,  Nicholas,  297. 

,  Robert,  297. 

,  Thomas,  281,  413. 

,  William,  411,  414,  490. 

,  Joan  his  wife,  411. 

,  William,  prior  of  Henton,  128, 

And  see  Marshall. 

Marcham,  Wercham,  co.  Berkn,  195,  369. 

Marche,  Ralph,  504. 

Marcle,  co.  Hereford,  131. 

Marden,  Mawanlyn,  co.  Hereford,  131. 

,  Upper,  UpmerdoD,co.  Susiex,  443. 

,  West,  Westmerden,  co.  Sussex,  88, 

465,  548. 

Mare,  Thomas  de  la.  373. 

Marenell,  James,  808. 

Marc8chall,Gilbert,  earl  of  Pembroke,  395, 496. 

,  William,  earl  of  J'embroke,  496. 

Thomas,  133,  346,  347,  566. 

Margaret,  the  king's  sister,  93,  442. 

,  queen  of  Henry  VI.  34,  86,66,  82, 

101,197,231,273,411,505. 


668 


GENERAL  INDEX. 


Marhain,  co.  Norfolk,  175. 

Marhamcburch,  Marwynchurch,  co.  Cornwall, 
372. 

Mariscis,  Geoffrey  dc,  497,  498. 

Markaant,  Simon,  175. 

Marke,  in  the  marches  of  Calais,  lordship  of, 
90, 130,  478. 

Marke,  John,  416. 

,  Thomas,  416. 

Markes,  Richard,  421. 

Market  Overton,  co.  Rutland,  197,  314. 

Markfield,  Markefeld,  co.  Leicester,  104,  354. 

Markham,  John,  65,  99,  132,  154,  201,  228, 
233,  270,  279,  303,  304,  346,  347,  488- 
490,  529,  530,  567,  574. 

,    John,   chief   justice  of   the  King's 

Bench,  14,  53,  128,  225, 264,  266,  267, 
272,  283,  300,  325,  382,  421,  438,  440, 
442,  475,  512,  513,  518,  521,  526,  535, 
536,  540,  543,  544,  546,  555. 

,  Robert,  562,  569. 

,  Thomas,  199. 

Markwyke,  John,  317. 

Marlborough,  co.  Wilts,  8,  11,  198,  274,  316, 

430,  482,  506. 

,  charters  dated  at,  159,  168,  241,  251. 

Marleburgh.     See  Marlborough. 

Marley,  John,  135. 

Marmoustiers  les  Tours,  alien  abbey  of,  145, 

534. 

monks  of,  375-377. 

Marmyon,  Peter,  236,  847,  389,  559,  570. 

,  William,  278,  363,  389,  570. 

Marn,  WUUam  de,  500. 
Marncy,  John  and  Joan  his  wife,  1 1 . 
Marowe,  William,  324. 
Marrok.     See  Morocco. 
Marsburgh,  Thomas,  538. 
Marshal.    See  Mareschall. 
Marshall,  Christopher,  315. 

,  Joan,  516,  539. 

,  John,  259,  351. 

, ,  mayor  of  York,  530. 

, ,  parson  of  Aikton,  468, 

,  Richard,  518. 

,  Robert,  496. 

,  Thomas,  362. 

William,  33,  378. 

Marshallislond,  co.  Cornwall,  372. 
Marshalsea  prison,  53,  264,  266,  267,   272, 

288,  291,  300,  325,  382,  421,  438,  440, 

442,  475,  518,  518,  521,  526,  535,  586, 

540,  544,  546,  555. 
Marshfield,  Mersfeld,  co.  Somerset,  307. 
Marston,  Merston  Culy,  co.  Warwick,  490. 

,.,.,  Dry,  CO.  Gloucester,  416. 

Morteyne,  co.  Bedford,  414. 

Maysey,  Merstou  Meysey,  co.  Wilts, 

110,  480,  482. 
Marsh  Wood,  Mershewode,  co.  Dorset,  131, 

146. 
Martel,  William,  4u2. 


Martell,  Osbem,  167. 

Marther,  prebend  of,  17. 

Marti val,    Roger    de,    bishop  of    Salisburv, 

[1315-1330],  162. 
Martock,  Mertok,  co.  Somerset,  97,  135,  144, 

301. 
Marton,  Merton,  co.  Westmoreland,  486. 

,  West,  Westmerton,  co.  Wilts,  172. 

in  Craven,  co.  York,  342,  474. 

Martyn,  Geoffrey,  336,  432. 

,  Gilbert,  75. 

,  Henry,  155. 

,  Marten,  Marton,  John,  32,  4  4 ,  206, 

265,  272,  301,  361,  419,  443,  509,  524. 

,  Laurence,  268. 

,  Peter,  174. 

Robert,  36,  102,347,362,  635,  542, 

543,566. 

, ,  mayor  of  Faversham,  346. 

Roger,  218,  319,  320. 

,  Thomas,  100,  297,  490. 

,  William,  272. 

Mart^-ndale.  William,  502. 

Marynere,  William,  194. 

Mascallsbury,  Maskerellesbury,    co.    Essex, 
379. 

Mason,  John,  344. 

,  WiUiam,  885. 

Massanger,  Thomas,  255. 

Masseley,  Richard,  488. 

Massingham,  Great,  co.  Norfolk,  256. 

Massy,  Hamo,  292. 

Massy ngham,  John,  501. 

Mastyrse,  co.  Kent.     See  Maystyrse. 

Matfen,  Robert,  rector  of  North  Lufenhaiu, 
13. 

,  ,  prebendary  of  Newark,  Lei- 
cester, 11. 

..., ,  master  of  the  hospital  of  St. 

Leonard,  Leicester,  46. 

Mather,  Thomas,  33. 

Mathewe,  John,  435. 

,  Walter,  426. 

,  William,  321. 

Mathyn,  William,  175. 

Matilda,  queen  of  Henry  I.  charter  of,  243. 

,  queen  of  Stephen,  62,  167,  396,  402, 

404. 

,  charter  of,  400. 

,  daughter  of  Henry  XL  896. 

the  Empress,  377,  403,  40S. 

,  charters  of,  235,  241,  499,  556. 

,  queen  of  William  I.  charter  of,  498. 

Matthew  ap  David  ap  Wachaun,  parson  oi 
Wootton,  339. 

,  parson  of  Steeple,  339. 

Mattishall,  Mateshall,  Matsall,  co.  Norfolk, 
179,  195,  355. 

Mattokiswill,  co.  Devon,  872. 

Mauclerk,  Walter,  bishop  of  Carlisle  [1223- 
1246],  395. 


GENERAL  INDEX. 


G69 


Maadljms  Boostrewys,  [co.  Hertfordl,  121. 
Maudoo.     See  MildoQ, 
Maulevrer,  Halnath,  25. 
Maunche,  John,  448. 

, »  Margaret  his  wife,  448. 

Mauucell,  Maunsell,  Manntell,  Henry,  412. 

,  John,  416. 

, ,  provost  of  Beverlej,  494. 

,  Pascasius,  100. 

,  Philip,  426. 

,  Thomaa,  8,  99,  111,  178,  295. 

...,  ,  cscheator  in  the  counties  of 

Somerset  and  Dorset,  265,  365,  368. 
Maunceliysfeld  [co.  Glamorgan],  426. 
Maansfeld.     See  Mansfield. 

Maiintell,  Walter,  102,    134,  233,  293,  491, 

568. 

And  sec  Maancell. 
Mawardyn.     See  Marden. 
Maxcy,  co.  Northampton,  254. 
Maxon,  Robert,  197. 
Maxstoke,  co.  Warwick,  478. 

« 

,  prior  and  canons  of,  235. 

,  Richard,  prior  of ,  235. 

Maychell,  .fohn,  536. 

Maydenwcli,  John,  the  elder,  471,  544. 

Maydetiton.     See  Maidstone. 

Mftyn,  John,  418. 

Maynard,  Thomas,  100. 

Mayne,  William,  63. 

Maynenbeare.     See  Manorbery. 

Mayawaring,  James,  310. 

May  re,  Henry,  83. 

Mayson,  John,  172. 

Maystyrse,  Mastyrse,  co.  Kent,  88,  464,  548. 

Measden,  Mesden,  co.  Hertford,  162. 

Mcath,  Methe,  in  Ireland,  47,  196. 

,  county  of,  186. 

,  diocese  of,  41. 

William,  bishop  of,  287. 

Meuiix,  Melsa,  co.  York,  abbot  and  convent 
of,  497. 

,  William,  abbot  of,  497. 

Mechyng.     Set  Newhaven. 

Meddelton.     See  Middelton. 

Mede,  Philip,  304. 

MedeUon,  George,  84,  120. 

Medewold.     See  Methewold. 

Medilton,  Richard,  317. 

Medina,  Isle  of    Wight,  co.    Southampton, 
burgesses  of,  406. 

Medina,  John  de,  50. 

Medway,  Midweye,  rirer,  170. 

Medynhith.     See  Maidenhead. 

Meers,  Thomas,  528,  566. 

Meggys,  Robert,  471. 

Meinordy ve,  in  South  Wales,  114. 

Mekilfoild,  William,  573. 

^relau,  Robert,  earl  of  Leicester,  346,  463. 

Melbourn,  John  do,  dean  of  Wolverhampton, 
61. 


I 


Melbourne,  Mclbarn,  co.  Derby,  84. 

,  CO.  York,  39,  87,  285,  4.'i8. 

Melburn.     See  Melbourne. 

Melburnc,  Simon,  52,  523. 

,  Thomas,  523. 

Melburn,  Thomas,  parson  of  Danby  Wisk,336. 

,  ,  parson  of  Newton  Kyme,  336. 

Melbury,  Milburye,  co.  Dorset,  300,  386,  478. 

Melchuyt,  co.  Wilts,  forest  of,  537. 

Melcombe,  Melecumbe,  co.  Dorset,  74. 

,  burgesses  of,  170. 

port  of,  540. 

Mcldon,  CO.  Devon,  212,  372. 

Meldreth,  Malrede,  Melreth,  co.  Cambridge, 
131,  169. 

Melford,  co.  Suffolk,  257. 
Melhuish,  Melhewyssh,  co.  Devon,  54,  227, 
359,  372. 

Meliden,  Altemeleden,  co.  Flint,  prebend  of, 
444. 

Meliour,  Thomas,  14. 

Melksham,  Melkysham,  co.  Wilts  174,  385. 

,  hundred  of,  384. 

,  forest  of,  8,  32,  95,  430,  482. 

Mell,  Roger,  419. 

Melley,  Thomas,  344. 

Mellys,  Robert,  508. 

Melsa.     See  Meaux. 

Melsham,  Melseliam,  John,  268,  .333. 

Melsom,  Thomas,  446. 

Melsounby,  William,  446. 

Melton,  CO.  Lincoln,  195. 

,  Roos,  CO.  Lincoln,  195,  227,  344. 

,  Faucomberge,  co.  Somerset,  23,  135, 

362. 

Melton.    Sec  Milton. 

Melton,  John,  31,  66,  102,  277,  329,  576. 

,  Robert,  411. 

Memme,  Walter,  38. 

Mendelsham.     See  Mendlesham. 

Mendham,  Medham,  co.  Suffolk,  197,  287. 

,  prior  of,  257. 

^(endip,  Mynedeph,  co.  Somerset,  forest  of, 
131. 

Mendlesham,  Mendelsham,  co.   Suffolk,  52, 
443. 

Mensktp,  Master  Thomas,  174. 

Menwennek,  Menwynnek,  William,  201,  389, 
561. 

Meou,  East,  Estmene,  co.  Southampton,  38. 

Meonstoke,  co.  Southampton,  539. 

Merchaunt,  John,  847. 

,  Roger,  347. 

Merden,  co,  Kent,  828. 

,  hundred  of,  7,  23,  49,  125,  183,  209, 

215,217,218,223,230. 
Mere,  co.  Stafford,  112,  217,  295,  485. 

,  CO.  Wilts,  101,215. 

Meredeth,  South  Wales,  13. 
Meres,  Thomas,  567. 
, ,  the  elder,  566. 


670 


GENERAL  INDEX. 


Merevale,  Meryvalle,  co.  Warwick,  abbot  of, 

199,  524. 
Mereworth,  co.  Kent,  411. 
MerideD,  co.  Warwick,  510. 
Merifeld,  John,  233. 

Merionctb,  county,  51,  271,  352,  355,  457, 
467,  529. 

.., ,  chief  justice  of.   See  Herbert ;  Grey. 

,  sheriff  of.     See  Croft. 

Merk,  John  de,  59. 

Merkwall,  pasture  called,  22. 

Merlaud,  Henry,  518. 

Mersea,  West,  co.  Essex,  501. 

Merfih,  co.  Deyon,  227,  359,  372. 

Mershewode.     See  Marsh  Wood. 

Mersshe,  Roger*  prebendary  of  St.  Stephen*8, 

Westminslcr,  539. 
Mersshland,  cos.  Lincoln  and  York,  35,  528. 
Merstou,  co.  Wilts,  274. 
Merton  Meyny.     See  Marstou  Mayaey. 
Merston,  John,  42,  187,  573. 
Mertok.    See  Martock. 
Merton,  charters  dated  at,  230,  242. 

And  see  Marton. 
Merton,  Thomas,  470. 

,  Walter  de,  160. 

,  William  de,  446. 

Mervyn,  John,  181,  363-365,  368. 
Mery,  John,  263,  264. 

Philip,  456. 

Meryell,  John,  254,  503. 
Meryman,  Thomas,  264, 
Merynges,  William,  102,  552,  569. 
Meschines,  Lucy  de,  countess  of   Chester, 

242. 

,  lUnulph  de,  earl  of  Chester  and  Lin* 

coin,  242. 
Mesden.     See  Measden. 
Messenger,  Thomas,  255. 
Mesterton.    See  Misterton. 
Metals,  transmutation  of,  285. 
Metcalfe,  Alexander,  492. 

,  Cuthbert,  492. 

,  Edmund,  327,  336. 

, ,  Katherine  his  wife,  327,  336. 

,  Henry,  492. 

,  Miles,  327, 389. 

,  Matthew,  492. 

,  Reginald,  492. 

,  Thoman,  327,  492. 

Methe.    See  Meath. 
Metheley,  John,  177. 
Methenny,  co.  Monmouth,  425. 
Metheringham,    Metryngham,    co.    Lincoln, 

144,  175. 
Methewold,  Medewold,  Thomas,  485. 
Methwold,  co.  Norfolk,  471. 
Metryngham.    See  Metheringham. 
Meuland.     See  Longespee. 
Mewedeu,  John,  207. 
Mewes,  John,  204. 


Meyton  Hall,  co.  Norfolk,  HI,  200,  458. 

Michol^rovc,  Elizabeth,  93,  96,  123. 

,  John,  93,  96,  123,  138. 

Miclielhampton.     See  Minchinhampton. 

Michell,  John,  202,  206,  278. 

,  Katherine,  189. 

,  Richard,  318,  492. 

,  William,  prebendary  of  St.  George, 

Windsor,  284. 

Michelson,  Thomas,  93. 

Mickfield,  Mikelfeld  [co.  Suffolk],  93. 

Mickleham,  Mykelham,  co.  Surrey,  321,  545. 

Middelbuig,    Midelbourg*,    iu    Zealand,    99, 
202,  269. 

,  ship  called  le  Pynke  of^  202. 

Middelton.     See  Middleton,  Milton. 

Middle,  Myddull,  co.  Salop,  518. 

Middleham,  [co.  York],  letters  patent  dated 

at,  16,  29,  45,  71,  95,  304,  878. 
Middlesceugh,  co.  Cumberland,  540. 

Middlesex  county,  9,  10,  16,  17,  21,  26,  32, 
39,47-50,  55,  72,  82,  103,  123,  125, 
126,  139,  143,  183,  189,  192,  203,  211, 
262,  269,  278,  279,  301,  322,  379,  389. 
391,  448,  453,  456,  488,  490. 

sheriff  of,  26,  203,  265,.272. 

And  see  Hampton  ;  James  ;  Ireland  ; 
Lok;  Stone;  Tate. 

escheator  in,  220,  290,  332,  345,  380, 

455,  477. 

And    see    Thombur^' ;      Brokenian ; 
Grene. 

,  outlawries  in,  l-S,  19,53,  172,  174, 

175,  211.  253-257,  259,  267,  272,  283, 
313-320,410,  412,  414-419,  474,  485, 
501-503,  505-507,  509-511,  526,  540, 
544. 

..., ,  commissions  of  the  peace  iu,  667. 

Middleton,  Middelton,  co.  Northumberland, 

114. 
,  [co.  Northampton],  380. 

,  Midlyngton,  co.   Oxford,  418,  466, 

473. 

CO.  Westmoreland,  169. 

,  CO.  York,  169. 

Middleton    Br^-mmesfeld,     co.    Wilts,    435, 

582. 

And  see  Milton. 
Middleton,  Midleton,  Middelton,  Myddylton, 

David,  198. 

,  Geoffrey,  59,  279. 

,  George,  87,  86,  96. 

,  John,  81,  419,  492,  513. 

,  Nicholas,  492. 

,  Richard,  143,  337,  422,  440. 

, ,  Mat'dda  his  wife,  887,  422,  440. 

,  Robert,  206,  234. 

Thomas,  66,  506,  562,  575. 

,  William,  47. 

Midlyngton.     See  Middleton. 
Midsomer  Norton,  co.  Somerset,  23,  362. 
Mikelf'.  Id.     See  Mickfield. 


GENERAL  INDEX. 


671 


^IlkvU  Holand,  co.  Essex,  139,  269. 
Milanese,  276. 
^[ilborne.     See  Millbiirii. 
Milburne,  SimoD,  52. 
Milburje.     See  Mclbiiry. 
Milchet,  forest  of,  15. 
Milcomb,  Alillecombe,  co.  Oxford,  293. 
Mile  End,  co.  Middlesex,  446. 
Mileham,  co.  Norfolk,  443. 
Milewater,  Mylewatur,  John,  91, 280,  355, 451, 
565. 

Milford,  21. 

Milford,  William,  210. 

Milhay,  co.  Cornwall,  108. 

Milhum,  266. 

Milkesham.    See  Melksham. 

Millbeck,  Milbek,  co.  Westmoreland,  169. 

Millburn,  Milbome,  co.  Northumberland,  83. 

Mille,  Edward,  217. 

,  Hugh,  389. 

,  John,  204. 

Mille,  Mylle,  Robert,  301,  545. 

,  Roger,  470. 

William,  30. 

Miller,  Myller,  John,  490. 

William,  552. 

Millers,  Master  Humphrey  de,  13C. 

Milleward,  John,  174. 

,  William,  452. 

MiUys,  Edward,  566. 

Milner,  Thomas,  492. 

.Walter,  501. 

Milton,  Middelton,  co.   Kent,  7,  23,  49,  77, 
88,  95,  148,  183,  328,  334,  i64,  548. 

,  hundred  of,   7,  23,  31,  49,  64,  125, 

148,  183,  209,  215,  217,  218,  223,  230, 
328,  384. 

Milton,  Melton  by  Gravesende,  co.  Kent,  536. 

Milton,  CO.  Northampton,  197. 

,  CO.  Worcester,  91. 

Milton  Damerel,  co.  Deyon,  265,  508. 

Milverton,  co.  Somerset,  131. 

Minuns,  North,  co.  Hertford,  511,  520. 

Minchinhampton,  Michelhampton,  co.  Glou- 
cester, 98, 145. 

Minehead,  Mynhede,  co.  ^Somerset,  286,  366, 
367. 

,  ship  called  le  Trinite,  of,  99. 

Mining,  licence  for,  194. 

Minster,  Menstre,  co.  Kent,  403. 

Minster,  Isle  of  Thanet,  co.  Kent,  325,  332. 

Minster  Lovell,  Mynstrelovell,  co.   Oxford, 
alien  priory  of,  73. 

Minsterworth,  co.  Gloucester,  298,  519. 

Mint.     See  Coinage. 

Minting,  Myntyng,  co.  Lincoln,  alien  priory 
of,  161. 

Mintmauy,  Bartholomew,  517. 

Mirfyn,  Myrefyn,  Robert,  198,  521. 

Miserdeu,  Musarden,  co.  Gloucester,  181. 


Missenden,    Mussenden,     co.     Buckingham 
Robert  Rysborwe,  abbot  of,  204. 

,  abbot  and  convent  of,  21-1. 

Misterton,  co.  Leicester,  416,  566. 

,  Mestcrton  [co.  Nottingham],  484. 

,  CO.  Somerset,  70,  225. 

MiBterton,  Nicholas,  567. 

Mitford,  Mitforth,  co.  Northumberland.  175. 

Mitford,  Robert,  569. 

Mitton,  William,  29,  34. 

Mobbys,  John,  175. 

Moccas,  Mockas,  co.  Hereford,  77,  372. 

Mochelney.     See  Mucheluey. 

Mochnant,  Machnant  [co.  Denbigh],  42  L 

Mockas.     See  Moccas. 

Modbury,  co.  Devon,  199,  536. 

,  alien  priory  of,  199,  536. 

,    William  Beuselyn,  prior    of,    199, 

536. 

Moddelegh,  co.  Devon,  372. 
Moderey,  John,  416. 
Mody,  John,  10,  110. 

,  Agnes,  his  wife,  110. 

,  William,  257. 

Moenson,  John,  231. 
Moiford,  Richard,  502. 
Moigne,  Moygne,  John,  97. 

, ,  sheriff  of  Wilts  551. 

,  Thomas,  419,  451,  468,  567. 

Moile.     See  Moyle. 
Mokelowe,  John,  803,  534. 
Mokkyngcs,  co.  Middlesex,  176,  326. 
Moldash,   Molessh,  co.  Kdut,  97,    lOO,  144, 

178,829,330. 
Moleneux.     See  Molyneux. 

Molescroft,   Molcrofte,  Molstofte,  co.   York, 
208,  492,  531. 

Molessh.     See  Moldash. 

Moleyns,  lord  of.    See  HuBgerford. 

Molkeley,  co.  Warwick,  74. 

MoUand,  co.  Cambridge,  169. 

MoUassh,  Richard,  yicar  of  St<  John,  Thanet, 
CO.  Kent,  328. 

Moile,  John,  349. 

Mollington,  Molyngton,  co.  Oxford,  293. 

,  CO.  Warwick,  293. 

Molstofte.     See  Molescroft. 

Molyneux,  Edmund,  193,  268. 

» Robert,  523. 

,  Thomas,  523,  552,  569. 

Molyns,  Sir  John  de,  237. 

And  see  Huogerford. 
Mompesson,  John,  889. 
Moncure,  William,  459. 
Mondy,  Hugh,  262. 
Moudeby.    See  Mumby. 
Mondson,  William,  467. 
Monelesso,  Jerome,  458,  459,  542. 
Monesley.    See  Munsley. 
MoDgomerey,  John,  20. 

And  see  Montgomery. 


072 


GENERAL  INDEX. 


Mongymry.     See  MoDtj^ouierr. 

Mooke,  Thomas,  319. 

,  William,  208. 

Monken  Courte,  74. 

Monkenferlowc.     See  Monkton  Farleigh. 

Monkeston,  74. 

Monketon,  co.  Pembroke,  515. 

MoDka  Eleigh,  Monkye  Ily,  co.  Suffolk,  503. 

Monkslirer,  co.  Somerset,  832. 

Monkton,  co.  Kent,  447. 

,  [CO.  York],  876,  377. 

Monkton  Farleigh,  Monkerferlowe,  co.  Wilts, 
priory  of,  73,  139,  197. 

Monmouth,  co.  Monmouth,  425,  426. 

,  prior  of,  218. 

Monnick,  Peter,  231. 

MonningtOQ  Strade,  Monyngton  in  Stradell 
Vale,  CO.  Hereford,  872. 

Montacute,  co.  Somerset,  priory  of  St.  Peter 
and  St.  Paul,  107,  108. 

,  convent  of,  107,557. 

,  prior  of,  108,  151. 

,  Dan  Robert  Newton,  prior  of,  107, 

187. 

,  Robert  Criche,  prior  of,  107. 

,  William  Howse,  third  prior  of,  107. 

,  sub-prior  and  convent  of,  137. 

Montacute,  Simon,  bishop  of  Worcester  [1334- 

1337],  400. 
Montageu,  Richard,  445. 

Montagu,  John,  earl  of  Salisbury  and  lord  of 
Monthermer  and  Stokenhamme,  449, 
450. 

,  Thomas,   carl  of  Salisbury,   15,  82, 

265,  450. 

Montalt,  Monte  Alto,  John  de,  62. 
Monte  Alto.     See  Montalt. 
Moutebourg,  In  Normandy,  alien  abbey  of, 
144. 

Monte  Ganiso,  Denise  de,  480. 

Monte  Gomeri,  Walter  de,  sheriff  of  Notting- 
ham and  Derby,  57. 

Montgomery,  Mongymry,  17. 

Montgomery,  Mougomery,  Thomas,  545. 

, ,  sheriff  of  Suffolk,  260. 

, ,  esquire,  23,  124,  213. 

,  ,  knight,  18,  46,  79,  121,  125, 

126,  180,  213,  302,  367,  382,  522,  560, 
564. 

Monthermer,  lord  ^f.    See  Montague. 

Montignac,  lord  of.     See  Valencia. 

Mont  St  Michel,  alien  abbey  of,  144. 

,...,  abbot  and  convent  of,  97. 

Monyngton,  Thomas,  552. 

Monynton,  Richard,  336. 

Moorton.     See  Moreton. 

Mootham,  Thomas,  326. 

Moppe,  Denis,  254,  502. 

,  William,  502. 

Moptide,  Thomas,  890. 

Moraston,  co.  Hereford,  372. 

Mordale,  John,  303. 


Morden,  Moredon,  co.  Cambridge,  131. 

Mordon,  East,  Kstmordon,  co.  Dorset,  443. 

More,  25. 

,  letters  patent  dated  at,  44. 

More,  Greoffrey,  90. 

,  John,  24,  87,  99,  122,  188,  206,  232, 

284,301,364,568. 

,  Henry,  572. 

,  Nicholas,  510. 

....  ....,  Philip,  304. 

,  Richard,  201,  823. 

,  Thomas,  288. 

.William,  38. 

Morehall,  co.  Kent,  88,  464,  548. 

Morebay,  co.  Northampton,  48. 

Moremalerbe,  co.  Devon,  417. 

Morend,  co.  Northampton,  186,  189. 

Mores,  John,  206. 

Moresby,  Christopher,  86. 

...,  Hugh,  532. 

.'.....•a,  tlonn,  31. 

Moreton,  Moorton,  co.  Essex,  291,  507. 

...' ,  CO.  Buckingham,  367,  505. 

,  Mourton,  co.  Dorset,  108. 

[Moroton],  Robert,  earl  [of  Cornwall],  403. 

Moreton.    See  Corbet ;  Morton. 

Moreves,  co.  Suffolk,  145. 

Morff,  CO.  Salop,  forest  of,  69,  70,  191,  223, 
267. 

Morgan,  John,  496. 

,  Philip,  98,  210,  675. 

Morgan  ap  David,  parson  of  Llanwrin,  278. 

Morice,  Thomas,  202. 

Morisby, ,  66. 

Morland,  Richard,  parson  of  Walton,    300, 
468. 

, ,  parson  of  Aikton,  468. 

,  William,  prebendary  of  Coton,  387. 

Morleston,  co.  Derby,  226. 

Morle  Swanton.    See  Swanton  Morley. 

Morley  by  Attleborough,  co.  Norfolk,  507. 

Morley,  David,  parson  of  Hinton,  440. 

...« ,  Henry,  escheator  in  the  county    of 

Lincoln,  196. 

,  Nicholas,  502,  565,  574. 

Robert,  30. 

Boger,  211. 

Morocco,  Marrok,  straits  of,  222, 465,  513. 

Morpath,  Stephen,  dean  of  the  free  chapel  of 
WaUingford,  109. 

Morris,  Moryse,  co.  Kent,  88, 464,  548. 

Mors,  John,  173. 

Mortain,  alien  priory  of,  73. 

Morten,  John,  857. 

Morthoe,  co.  Devon,  254,  503. 

Mortimer,  Mortemer,  Mortymer,  Alice,  285. 

,  David,  452. 

,  Edmund,  fifth  earl   of  March,  145, 

321,  346,  463. 

,  Anne,  countess  of  March,  his  wife, 

145,  821. 


GENERAL  INDEX. 


673 


Mortimer,  Nicholas,  1 10. 

>  Philippa,  countess  of  March,  346,  468. 

»  Bichard,  586. 

And  see  Mortuo  Mari. 
Mortimer's  Cross,  hattle  of,  516. 
Morton,  ca  Cornwall,  64. 

,  Great,  872. 

•  CO.  Hereford,  418. 

Morton,  John,  80. 

, .archdeacon  of  Norwich,  327, 436. 

, rector  of  Bloxworth,  436. 

Morton,  William,  44,  178. 

, ,  parson  of  Scrayiogham,  50. 

Mortuo  Mari,  Henry  de,  481. 

,  Roger  de,  807. 

And  tee  Mortimer. 

Morra  [co.  Cornwall],  518. 

Morwhill,  Thomas,  52. 

Mory,  Geoffrey,  470. 

Moryf,  John,  411. 

Morys,  John,  100,  278. 

,  Stephen,  410. 

Moryse.    See  Morris. 

Morysson,  Peter,  867. 

,  William,  486. 

,  Agnes  his  wife,  486. 

Mossdale,    Mosdale,    co    Cumberland,    140, 
534. 

Moston.  Thomas,  459,  581. 

Mothetuna.     See  Moulton. 

Motte,  William,  256. 

Moubrai,  Roger  de,  806. 

Moulsoe,  Mulso,  co.  Buckingham,  122,  419. 

Moulton,  Multon,  co,  Lincoln,  169. 

,  CO.  York,  169. 

,  Mothetuna,  co.  Norfolk,  512. 

Moulton,  John.  215,  282. 

Mary  his  wife,  215.  282. 

Mountagu,  William,  290. 

Monndeford,  Thomas,  576. 

Mountegewe,  Henry,  545. 

Mounteslond.  John,  410. 

..,  William,  410. 

, ,  the  elder,  410. 

Mountferand,  Bertram,  lord,  71,  325. 

,  Petronilla  his  wife,  71,  325. 

,  Francis  de,  lord  Bnza,  209. 

Mountfort,  Monntford,  Baldwin,  51. 

,  Richard,  320. 

Robert,  489. 

f ,  the  younger,  349. 

Simon,  51,  489,  581,  574. 

earl  of  Leicester,  846,  463. 

t   Amy,  countes.M  of   Leicester,   346, 

463. 

,  Thomas,  30,  277,  489,  576. 

Mountgomery.     See  Montgomery. 

Mountgracc  [co.  York],  prior  and  convent  of, 
120,  161. 

Robert,  prior  of,  161. 

Mount  joy,  lord  of.    See  Blonnt. 

u    86914. 


Mount  St.  Michael,  co.  Cornwall,  priory  of, 
144. 

Mountsegur,  James  de,  208. 

Mounton,  77. 

Moorton.    See  Moreton. 

Mowbray,  Thomas,  first  duke  of  Norfolk,  earl 
of  Nottingham,  marshal  of  England, 
45,  228. 

,  John,  second  duke,  223. 

,  Eatherine,  duchess  of  Norfolk,  his 

wife,  104,  118,  141,  178, 179,  227,  352. 
354,  361.  428,  455,  477. 

,  John,  third  duke,  lord  of  Moubray, 

Segrave  and  Gower,  45,  46,  66,  67,  71, 
91,112,115,  119,  178,  179,208,228, 
231,  310, 879,  477,  568,  573,  576. 

, ,  letters  patent  of,  80. 

,  Eleanor,  duchess  of  Norfolk,  his  wife, 

477. 

,  John,  fourth  duke,  81,  91,  105,  112, 

115,  119,  132,  185,  212,  214,  228,  348, 
379,  477,  488,  489,  517,  53.%  568,  573. 

,  ,  created  earl  of  Warenne  and 

Surrey,  208. 

,  Elizabeth  his  wife,  212. 

Mower,  John,  the  younger,  374. 

Mowetor,  Robert,  468. 

Mowns,  John,  100. 

Moygne.    See  Moigne. 

Moyle,  Moile,  John,  43,  63. 

,  Roger,  513. 

,  Joan  his  wife,  513. 

,  Walter.  88,  65,  99,   132,  133,  201, 

202,  233,  279,  281,  301,  308,  304,  346, 
347,  419,  451,  488-490,  529,  580,  561- 
563,566,571,575. 

.justice  of  the  Bench,  14. 

Moymet,  Moyemet,  co.  Meath,  117. 

Moynes,  oo.  Cambridge,  77,  521. 

Moyserth.    See  Mozergh. 

Mozergh,  Moyserth,  co.  Westmoreland,  169. 

Mnbrai,  Roger  de,  377. 

Machegode,  Henry,  214. 

Mnchelney,  Mochelney,  Mulchilneye,  co. 
Somerset,  abbey  of,  i88,  457,  478. 

,  convent  of,  285,  457. 

,  abbot  of,  107. 

,  John  Cherde,  abbot  of,  285. 

,  Thomas  Pippe,  abbot  of.  285,  457. 

,  Dan  William  Crokehom,  abbot  of, 

478. 

Mnchgode,  Robert,  5. 

Magge,  William,  61.  • 

Mnklowe,  John,  534. 

Mulchilneye.    See  Mnchelney. 

MuU,  Mulle,  Aleisia,  388. 

,  Anne,  888. 

,  Frances,  72,  85,  197. 

,  Thomas,  72,  85,  205,  388. 

...  ,  William.  72,  85,  197,  205,  388,  424. 

Mulso.    See  Moulsoe. 

Malso,  Edmund,  45,  83,  1  SO,  205. 

U  U 


674 


GENERAL  INDEX. 


Mulso,  John,  170. 

,  William,  12,  49,  134,  180,  205,  206, 

567. 
Multoo,  CO.  Northampton,  13. 

And  see  Moulton. 
Multon,  Gilbert,  abbot  of  Bardney,  517. 

,  John,  351,  416. 

...,  John  de,  472. 

Mumby,  Mondeby,  eo.  Lincoln,  169. 

Mundam.     See  Luteme. 

Munde,  Oliver,  28. 

Mundevile,  John,  280. 

Mundham,  North,  Northmundam,  co.  Sussex, 

108,  150. 

Munemuta,  John  de,  395. 
Munkconyttton.     See  Coniston. 
Munkyn,  Thomas,  258. 
Munsley,  Mone«ley,  co.  Hereford,  504. 
Muntfort,  Hugh  de,  403. 
Murage,  200. 

Mursley,  Muresley,  co.  Bnckingham,  121. 
Musardere.     See  Miserden. 
Musbury,  co.  Devon,  70,  116,  323. 
Muschuup,  Thomas,  sheriff  of  London,  296. 
MuBgrave,  Richard,  knight,  66,  132,  143,  280, 
562,  575. 

,  esquire,  66,  74,  143,  280,  662. 

Muskham,  North,    Northmuskam,  co.    Not- 
tingham, 84. 

Muskham,    William,    vicar    of   St.    Mary's, 
Lincoln,  485. 

Musquitz,  John  de,  279. 
Mussenden.     See  ^iissenden. 
Mussenden,  Henry,  204. 
Mufiton,  Thomas,  450,  489,  491,  574. 

William,  389. 

Mutford,  CO.  Suffolk,  256. 
Mutford,  John  de,  159. 
Mycheison,  John,  271. 
Mychelhampton.     See  Minchinhampton. 
Mygeley,  John,  436. 

Myghyll,  David,  82. 

Mykelfeld,  William,  573. 

Mykelham.     See  Mickleham. 

Mykyll  Holand,  co.  Essex,  139,  269. 

Myleton,  William,  417. 

Mylewatur.     See  Milewater. 

Mylle.     See  Mille. 

Myller.     See  Miller. 

Mylly,  James  de,  master  of  the  Hospital  of 
St.  John  of  Jerusalem,  52. 

Mylsam,  John,  218. 
Myltou.    See  Milton. 
Mylys,  Thomas,  175. 
Mynchynlake,  co.  Devon,  146. 
Mynedepp.    See  Mendip. 
Mynhede.    See  Minehead. 
Mynstrelovell.    See  Minster  Lovell. 
Myrefyn.     See  Mirfyn. 
Myryell,  John,  417. 


.Mysterton,  William,  437. 

,    William,   prior     of    Ncwstead 

Shirwode,  11. 
Mytton,  CO.  Worcester,  388. 


N. 


Naanby.     See  Navenby. 

Naffcrton,  co.  York,  39, 198,  455. 

Namur,  517. 

Nanby.     See  Navenby. 

Nans  in  Luxolian,  co.  Cornwall,  488. 

Nanseglos,  Robert,  471. 

,Wimam,471. 

Nanskylly,  John,  101. 

,  Richard,  101. 

Nant  a  Buirough,  co.  Monmouth,  425. 

Nant  a  Gloyth,  co.  Monmouth,  425. 

Nantes,  in  Brittany,  233. 

Nantothan,  co.  Cornwall,  320. 

Napton,  CO.  Warwick,  195,  369. 

Narburgh,  John,  415. 

Nassington,  Nassyngton,   co.   Northampton, 

131,219. 
Nassoburgh,  co.   Northampton,  hundred  of, 

191. 
Natalis,  WiUiam,  893. 
Natynton,  co.  Kent,  548. 
Navenby,  Nanby,  Naanby,  co.  Lincoln,  145, 

218. 
Navisford,     Navesford,     co.    Northampton, 

hundred  of,  191. 
Nayler,  John,  139,  268,  344,  468. 
Neath,  Neeth,  co.  Glamorgan,  men  of,  427. 
Neatishead,  Netesherd,  co.  Norfolk,  556. 

Necton,  co.  Norfolk,  186. 

Nedeham,  John,  65, 99, 133, 202, 233, 279, 303, 
804,  346,  347,  488-490,  529,  530,  552, 
561,  562,  566,  567,  569,  570,  674-577. 

, ,  justice  of  the  Bench,  14. 

,  William,  301,  304,  552-554. 

Nederhofe,  Henry,  349,  350. 

Nederhose,  Henry,  503. 

Nedyrton,  John,  502. 

Neel,  Nele,  Neell,  John,  268,  428,  502. 

, ,  parson  of  St.  Mary,  Calais,  60, 

,  Philip,  194,  433. 

,  Richard,  30,96,199,  346,  387,462, 

532,  549,  550,  566. 

Neel,  Walter,  462. 

,  William,  414,  512. 

,  Agnes  his  wife,  414, 512. 

Neer,  John  a,  68. 

Nefe,  John,  469. 

Neffeld,  William,  escheator  in  the  county  of 
York,  158,  534. 

Nele.     See  Neel. 


GENERAL  INDEX. 


675 


NelesoD,  Thomas,  SO. 

, ,  mayor  of  York,  450. 

Nemyngton.    See  Kingsnympton. 

Nene,  John,  420. 

,  Thomas,  420. 

Keroche,  Bacche,  Bachiche^  co.  Somerset, 
forest  of,  18,  131. 

Nesse,  Thomas,  ^82. 

Neston,  co.  Wilts,  339. 

Netesherd.    Ste  Keatishead. 

Netherborowe.    See  Barrow,  Nether. 

Netherhall  m  Lavenham,  co.  Suffolk,  197. 

Netherley,  co.  Gloacester,  372. 

NethertyntOD.    See  Toynton. 

Netherwent  [co.  Monmouth],  87 Ql 

Netherweresday,  363. 

Nethwode,  194. 

Netley,  Lettele,  the  Place  of  St.  Edward,  co. 
Southampton,  abbot  and  convent.of,  158. 

Nettilbed,  9. 

Neaboume.    See  Newbum. 

Neubnrgh,  John,  98,  101,  563. 

Atid  see  Neweburgh. 

NeucastelL     See  Newcastle. 

Neueome,  William,  205,  567. 

Neuhans,  William,  presented  to  the  chapel  of 
Lamand,  460. 

NeutOD.  Bichard,  110. 

,   ,  justice  of  the  Bench,  5,  172, 

174,  257,  318,  319,  411,  415,  419,  501. 
509. 

Neutou,  Stephen,  14. 
And  see  Newton. 

Neve,  Thomas,  482. 

Neyendon,  Neyyndon,  co.  Essex,  139. 

Neville,  Neyili,  Nevile,  Neyylle,  Edward,  of 
Bergevenny,  132,  133,  301,  346,  488, 
489,  566,  573. 

,  Qteofttey  de,  steward  of  Henry  U., 

894. 

,  George,  lord  Latymer,  71. 

,  George,chanoellor  of  England,  bishop 

of  Exeter,  85,  37,  47,  69,  76,  80,  88, 
125,  141,  142,  146,  179,  270,  808,  828, 
481,  437,  441,  444,  455,  538,  560-562, 
565,  667,  570,  572,  573. 

, .arehbishop  of  York,  455,516, 

519,  525,  534,  585,  588,  552,  560,  562, 
565^  567,  569,  570,  578,  576,  577. 

, .chancellor  of  the  uniTersity  of 

Oxford,  570. 

,  master  of  the  hospital  of  St. 

Leonard,  York,  247,  477. 

, ,  grants  to,  7,  9,25,  105,  122, 

151,  152,  198,  225,  265,  287,  800,  301, 
822,  329,  355,  469,  470, 477. 

,  Henry  de,  247. 

,  Henry,  576. 

,  Hugh,  226. 

,  Hugh  de, 894. 

,  Humphrey,  86,  122,  267,  269,  279, 

848. 

John,  226,  552,  560,  569. 


NeyUle,  John,  of  Neville;  29, 95. 

, ,of  Woresley,  531. 

, ,lord  of  Montagu,  earl  of  North- 
umberland, 30,  66,  102,  132,  206,  283, 
267,  332,  353,  359,  450,  451,  487,  490, 
525,  528,  680,  552,  560,  561,  565,  568, 
569,  573,  575-577, 

, ,  warden  of  the  east  march  of 

Scotland,  280,  343,  426. 

,  ,  created  earl  of  Northumber- 
land^ 332. 

, ,  appointed  sheriff  of  Northum- 
berland for  life,  525. 

, ,  grants  to,  7,  9,   19,  130,  195, 

328,  832,  840,  378,  426,  484,  517. 

,  Isabel  his  wife,  525. 

,  Peter  de,  160. 

,  Balph  de,  bishop  of  Chichester  [  1 222- 

1244],  395. 

,  Balph,  earl  of  Westmoreland,  66, 138, 

841,  538. 

,  Margaret  his  wife,  538. 

,  Bichard,  earl  of  Warwick  and  Salis- 
bury, 7,  30,  31,  38,  45,  47,  51,  59,  61, 
66,  79,  88,  89,  93-95,  98,  99,  106,  112, 
119,  182,  142,  176,  202,  206,  215,  231, 
233,  270,  279,  281,  283,  284,  295,  808, 
804,  808,  825,  346,  359,  426,  427,  444, 
450,462,  464,  489-491,  530,  552,  559- 
577. 

, ,  steward  of  England,  63,   89, 

451. 
, great  chamberlain  of  England, 

45,  98,  106,  193,  211,  842,  439. 

, ,  captain  of  Calais,  177, 193,211, 

216,  272,  289,  456,  525,  442. 

, ,  admiral  of  England,  Ireland 

and  Aqoitaine,  89. 

,  .......  constable  of  Dover  castle,  45, 

281,  302,  803,  347,  451. 

, ,  warden  of  the  Cinque  Ports,  45, 

282,  281, 302,  808,  847, 451. 

, ,  warden  of  the  west  march  of 

Scotland,  280,  342,  422. 

, ,  justice  of  the  forests  beyond 

Trent,  540. 

, grants  to,  71, 186,189,265,  292, 

422,  484. 

,  Anne,  countess  of  Warwick,  his  wife, 

93,94,  106,  119,  295,  296,  426,  427, 
444,  462. 

,  Bichard,  late  earl  of  Salisbury,  15,  60, 

76,  80,  93,  95,  104,  106,  107,  112,  135, 
142,  827, 854,  444,  447,  516,  537. 

, ,  warden  of  the  west  march  of 

Scotland  and  the  forests  beyond  Trent, 
82. 

,  Alice,  coontess  of  Salisbury,  his  wife, 

15,  82,  215,  265,  444,  447. 

,  Bobert,  102, 848,  677. 

,  Bobert  de,  247. 

, ,  knight,  247. 

,  Thomas,  58,  95,  537. 

, » of  Bolleston,  102,  569. 

,  of  Snthleverton,  102,  190,  552, 

569. 

U  U  2 


676 


GENERAL  INDEX. 


Neville,  William,  lord  of  Fanconberge,  earl  of 
Kent,  80,  66,  119,  132,  183.  204,  215, 
227,  233,  283,  302,  331,  569, 576,  577. 

, ,  admiral  of  England,  195. 

,  ••^•..,  grants  to,  73,  225. 

,  Joan,  countess  of  Kent,  his  wife,  277, 

283. 

Newale,  John,  37. 

Newark,  co.  Nottingham,  509. 

,  charter  dated  at,  407. 

Newarm.     See  Neweme. 

Newbattle,  Neubotell,  in  Scotland.  442. 

Newberyland,  co.  Cambridge,  169. 

Newbiggiog,  co.  Cumberland,  140,  534. 

,  by  Wodhom,  co.  Northumberland, 

2.59',  547. 

Newbolt,  John,  257. 

Newborough,  Bosfeire,  co.  Anglesey,  428. 

Newbottle,  Newebotell,  co.  Northampton,  538. 

Newbnm,  Neuboume,  co.  Northumberland, 
44,199,341. 

Newbnm    Haven,    Neuboume    Heven,    co. 

Northumberland,  44. 
Newbury,  Neubury,  Nubury,  co.  Bcfks,  131, 

424. 

Newby,  Neuby  hi  Scalby  by  Scarborough,  co. 
York,  412. 

Newcastle,  Newcastell,  62.  502. 

Newcastle-on-Tyne,  co.  Northumberland,  17, 
83,  133,  233,  277.  304,  310,  337,  340, 
348-350,  357,  3C5.  379,  428,  450,  458, 
477,48J,  516,  540,  552. 

,  mayor  nnd  commonalty  of,  341. 

,  mayor  and  burgesses  of,  558. 

,  mayor  of,  304,  349,  393. 

And  see  Birde ;    Buddc ;   Bishoppes- 
dale;  Nixon. 

,  port  of,  12, 129,  426.  514.  547. 

,  ship  called  le  Valeniyne  of,  553. 

,  letters  patent  dated  at,  7,  8,  29. 

,  charters  dated  at,  408,  409. 

Newcasile-under-Lyme,  CO.  Stafford,  hermitage 
of,  441. 

,  by  Lyons,  co.   Dublin,  59,  84,  337, 

374. 

Newdtgate.  Neudegate,  co.  Surrey,  545. 

Neweburgh,  Neubourgh.  John,  35.  203,  489. 

, ,  the  elder,  154. 

Newebury,  John,  28. 

Newecombe,  William,  101. 

Newehall,  145. 

Newehawe  [co.  Northampton], 389. 

Newe  Hithe,  348. 

Neweman.    See  Newman. 

Newenham.  Nyweham.  co.  Devon,  abbot  and 
convent  of,  250 

Newenham,  John,  prior  of  St.  Martin's,  Dover, 
159. 

,  VTilliam,  538. 

Newentoo.     See  Newio<]:ton. 

Neweroe,  N'ewarne  ,co.  Gloucester,  169,  533. 

Newerg,  John.  418. 


I 


New  Forest,  CO.  Southampton,  8, 27,  90,  125 
158,  547. 

Newgate  gaoL    See  London. 

Newham,  co.  Northumberland,  116,  118,  199, 
840. 

Newhaveji,  Mechyng,  co.  Sossex,  212. 

Newhonae,  Nnsted,  co.  Lincoln,  185. 

Newington,  Newenton,  co.  Surrey,  5,  521. 

Newington,  Newenton  Bertram,  co.  Kent,  544. 

.•..Newton  by  the  heth,  co.  Kent,  441. 

442. 

Newland,  Neweland,  oo.  Gloucester,  169,  533. 

in  Wardale  [co.  Durham],  294. 

Newland,  Robert,  514. 

Newman,  Henry,  94. 

,  Neweman,  John,  3,  278,  279. 

,  Nicholas,  4. 

,  Walter,  385. 

Newmarket,  co.  Cambridge,  53,  195. 

Newnham,  Newenham,  co.  Kent,  330. 

,  CO.  Cambridge,  869. 

'  Newnhambrigge,'  bridge  called,  55. 

Newnton    LongviUe      [co.      Buckingham], 
Newyuton  Longvyle,  54. 

,  priory  of  St.  Faith,  54. 

Newport,  co.  Monmouth,  13,  824,  463,  464. 

men  of,  427. 

,  Isle  of  Wight,  504. 

Pagnel,  Neuport  Paynell.  co.  Buck- 

iugham,  118,  186,  189,  435. 

Gerard,  202. 

,  William,  323. 

Newstead,    Newstede,    co.   Northumberland, 
118.  199,340. 

on  Ancolm,  co.    Lincolp,  prior  and 

convent  of,  269. 

,  prior  of,  218. 

in  Sherwood  [co.  Nottingham],  prior 

and  convent  of,  48,  79. 

,  Robert  Cutwolf,  prior  of,  22. 

John  Durham,  prior  of,  11,  79. 

,  William  Mysterton,  prior  of,  11. 

Newthgate,  Robert,  32. 

Newton,  Neuton,  co.  Cambridge,  498. 

in  Alderdale,  co.  Cumberland,  502. 

Cherlowe,  co.  Devon,  70. 

Poppleford,   Neuton  Popelford.    co. 

Devon,  119,  429. 

,  CO.  Lancaster,  7,  9,  104,  422. 

,  CO.  Leicester,  104,  354. 

,  CO.  Lincoln,  169. 

,  CO.  Northumberland,  341. 

,  NeutQn  Plcycy,  co.  Somerset,  416. 

St.  Loe,  Newetoii  Sayntlo,  co.  Somer> 

set,  1,  4. 

,  CO.  Suffolk,  180. 

in  Swy I lond,  co.  Suffolk,  1 32 . 

,  CO.  York,  342,  377. 

Kyme,  co.  York,  336,  457. 

le  Willows,  CO.  York,  86,  457 

Morell,  CO.  York,  169. 


I 


GENERAL  INDEX. 


677 


Newton  upon  Case,  co.  York,  376. 

on  the  Wold,  co.  York,  376,  877. 

•..     See  Newington. 

Newton,  John,  824. 

, ,  abbot  of  Battle,  266,  290. 

,  Beginald,  328. 

,  Dan  Robert,  prior  of   Montacate, 

107. 

And  see  Neuton. 
Newynton   Longvjle.     See  Newnton  Long- 

yille. 
Nicer,  John  a,  201. 
Nicooll.    56eNicholl. 
Niche,  Thomas,  255. 
Nichohis,  John,  5. 

,  William,  496,  519. 

Nicholas,  Ralph  son  of,  139,  395. 
Nicholas  ap  Elfs,  rector  of  Llaneilian,  127. 
Nicholaston,  co.  Glamorgan,  426. 

NichoU.  Nicull,  NycoU,  John,  29,  456,  488, 
519. 

,  William,  456. 

Nichob»on,  John,  808. 

Niell,  John,  545. 

Nightingale,  Nyghtingale,  John,  51,  196,  299. 

Nixon,  John,  mayor  of  Newcistle-on-Tyne, 
552. 

,  Robert,  66. 

Nocton,  CO.  Linoolo,  467. 

Parke,  co.  Lincoln,  prior  and  conyent 

of,  380. 

Noddon,  CO.  Cornwall,  108. 

Noke,  John,  581. 

Nonancoart,  in  France,  charters  dated  at, 
899. 

None,  Henry,  66,  67. 

,  John,  510. 

Nonynton,  Richard,  27. 

Noone,  Hogh,  218. 

Norbourgh,  William,  53,  186. 

Norbuiy,  John,  the  elder,  459. 

, ,  Elisabeth  his  wife,  459. 

,  Henry,  459. 

,  John,  the  yoanger,  459. 

Nordon,  William,  545. 

Noreys.     See  Norreys. 

Norfambrigge.    See  Fambridge,  North. 

Norfolk  coanty,  10,  17-19,  21,  24,  27,  45,  50, 
52,  66,  71,  75,  88,  92,  95-97,  111,  117, 
119,  131,  133,  149,  180,  182,  189,  190, 
193,  195,  201,  208-205,  213,  214,  228, 
279,  302,  347,  348,  379,  390,  391,  442, 
452,  472,  527,  530. 

,  sheriff  of,  66,  67,  203,  802,  321,  348, 

406,  436,  452,  480,  485,  530. 

And  see  Hopton. 

,  escheator  in,  135,  224,  845,  353,  380. 

And  tee  Harleston,  Snthwell. 

,oathiwries  in,  5,  172-175,  216,255, 

2.'>7,  296,  315,  317,  318,  411-413,  419- 
421,  439,  475,  501,  503,  508-510. 

,  subsidy  and  ulnage  of  cloth  in,  219. 


Norfolk,  commissions  of  the  peace  in,  568. 

,  ad  miral  of.    See  Raddyf . 

,  duke  of.    See  Mowbmy. 

Norfolk,  John,  44,  80. 

Norham,  co.  Northumberland,  charter  dated 
at,  392. 

Norhamshire,  co.  Northumberland,  363,  549. 

Norhampton  Wareyn,  co.  Northampton,  13. 

Norman,  John,  324,  502,  510,  530. 

,  Agnes  his  wife,  510. 

Norman,   William,  prior    of    St.    Denis    by 
*  Southampton,  220. 

Normanbye,  John,  29. 

Normandy,  Normans,  22,  81,  83,   130,  276, 
451,532. 

Normanton,  CO.  Leicester,  104,  852. 

by  Sttthwell,  co.  Nottingham,  496. 

Normanton,  Thomas,  51. 

Norreys,  Noreys,  Norys,  Geoffrey,  435. 

,  Henry,  102. 

,  John,  258,  315,  316,  318,  418,  559. 

,  Margaret  his  wife,  316. 

,  John,  vicar  of  South  Lynn,  435. 

,  Patrick,  204. 

,  Robert,  chancellor  of  the  green  wax 

of  the  Exchequer  of  Ireland,  21. 

,  Roger,  384. 

,  Thomas,  511. 

,  Walter,  317. 

,  William,  77,  559. 

North,  William,  100. 

Northallerton,  co.  York,  335. 

Northam,  co.  Deyon,  225,  226,  454. 

Northampton,  5,  13,  48,  50,  103,  143,  154 
187,  195,  225,  296,  233,  257,  260,  293, 
814,  869,  381.  430,  470,  481,  503,  504. 

,  mayor  and  burgesses  of,  246. 

,  letters  patent  dated  at,  187,  191-193, 

196,  197,  199,  205,  214,827,  £87,  292- 

294,  297,  800,  303, 563. 
,  charters  dated  at,  136,  246,  252,  892, 

558. 
statute  of,  29,  134,200,276,345,  449. 

528. 
,  battle  of,  76,  516. 

,  county  of,  21,  27,  28,31,  35,87,  111, 

133,  134,  143,  191,  233,  281,  298,  353, 
379,445,476,481,494. 

, ,  sheriff  of,  87,  480,  481,  491. 

And  see  Wake. 

, ,  escheator  in,  9,  85,224,  290, 

834,  345,  353,  380,  534,  535. 

And  see  Ingleton ;  Langeley. 

, ,  outlawries  m,  5,  173, 175,  170, 

258,  254,  256,  320,  411,  413,  414,  418. 
442,  503,  504,  510. 

, subsidy    and  ulnage  of  cloth 

in,  78. 

, ,  justices  of  the  peace  in,  191. 

, ,  commissions  of  the  peace  in, 

568. 

Northawe,  co.  Hertford,  455,  456. 

Northbere,  382. 


678 


GENERAL  INDEX. 


Northcoker.    See  Coker. 

Nortbcote,  co.  Devon,  108. 

Northeby,  306. 

Northepole.    See  Pool. 

Northern,  Robert,  317. 

Northgate  by  Canterbary,  co.  Kent,  hospital 
of,  378. 

Northikham.     See  Hykeham. 

Northill,  CO.  Cornwall,  225,  227,  881. 

Korth  Lew,  Northlien,  co.  Devon,  10,  104. 

Northmuskam.     See  Mnskham. 

Northumberland  county,  17,  29,  40,  44,  66, 
105,  130,  132,  133,  197,  233,  294, 32», 
332,  336,  343,  348,  349,  357,  358i  390, 

477. 

,  escheator  in,  220,  345,  455. 

,  sheriff  of,  269,  318,  349,  450. 

And  see    Lomley;    Neville;    Bowes; 
Thornton ;  Harebotell. 

,  commissions  of  the  peace  in,  569. 

,  earl  of.     See  Percy. 

NorthweaM,  co.  Essex,  257. 

Northwich,  Norwich,  co.  Chester,  7>  9,  104. 

Northwode,  co.  Cornwall,  78.- 

Northwold,  Hogh  de,  bishop  of  Ely  [1229- 

12.54],  895,  407. 
Norton,  co.  Northampton,  441. 

,  Davy,  CO.  Northampton,  173,  174. 

Norton  Daney  by  Dartmouth,    co.   Devon, 

225-227,  331. 

Norton  in  Hales,  Norton  iti  Halls  [co. Salop], 
94,  459. 

,  CO.  Warwick,  80. 

,  Northon,  co.  Wilts,  503. 

Norton,  Elizabeth,  prioress  of  Westwood, 
470. 

,  John,  31. 

,  Reginald,  347. 

,  Nordon,  Richard,  317,  347. 

,  Robert,  1. 

,  Thomas,  278. 

,  William,  32,  317,  347,  566. 

Norway,  286,  378. 

Norwich,  co.  Norfolk,  4,  6,  10,  43,  47,  51,  67, 
72,  82,  89,  96,  111,  119, 121»  125,  133, 
152,  203,  233,  254,  256,  266,  272,  277, 
297,  315,  321,  330,  333,  406,  410-412, 
430,  436,  470,  472,  480,  485,  505,  526. 

,  mayor  and  citizens  of,  171. 

,  mayor  and  sheriffs  of,  67. 

,  mayor  of.      See  Norwyche ;    Butte  ; 

Brasyer. 

,  outlawries  in,  4,  5,    178,  175,  256, 

266,  320,  410,  411,  413,  415,  502. 

..........  letters  patent  dated  at,  13. 

,  charters  dated  at,  78, 158, 171,  251. 

,  diocese  of,  12,  40,  93,  103,  125,  180, 

193,271,286,292,478. 
,  bishop  of,.81. 

And     9ee     Hert;     Grey;     Brouns; 
Blundeville. 

,  archdeaconry  of,  327,  436. 

,  archdeacon  of.     See  Morton. 


Norwieh,  mint  at,  446. 

>  Holy  Trinity^  prior  and  convent  of, 

327,  436. 
, ,  John,  prior  of,  256,  327,  436. 

And  see  Northwich. 
Norwiche,  Norwych,  Christopher,  ^8,  21. 
Norwioo,  John  de,  500. 

,  Matilda  his  wife,  500. 

Norwode,  John,  64,  148,  489,  491,  566. 
Norwyche,  Simon,  539. 

,  William,  mayor  of  Norwich,  33. 

Noiy,  Simon,  283,  284. 

Norys.     See  Norreys. 

Nosteli,  St.  Oswalds,   [co.  York],   Adelulf, 

prior  of  [temp,  Henry  I.],  312.- 

NotCelde.    See  Nutfield. 
Notteley.     See  Nutley. 
Notting,  Kuottyngesbernys,    co.    Middlesex, 
76. 

Nottingham,  Notyngham,  24,  125,  133,  139, 
149,  186,  190,  226,  277,  351,  352,  430, 
460,  480,  487,  496,  550,  552. 

,  mayor  and  burgesses  of,  186,  248, 

306. 

,  mayor  of,  232. 

,  outlawry  in,  176. 

,  sheriff  of,  227. 

,  charters  dated  at,  190,  235,  237,  243, 

249,  250,  252,  312,  ^98,  499. 

,  county  of,  30,  31,  57,  59,  102,   117, 

138,  134, 191,  223,. 226,  357,  436,  444. 

, sheriff  of,  35,   102,   134,  226, 

357,436,480,554. 

And  9ee  Monte  Gomeri ;  Leek ;  Okore. 

....,  .......  escheator  in,  455,  524. 

, ,  gaol  of,  439. 

, ,  outlawries  in,  315,  317. 

, ,  Justices  of  the  peace  in,  190. 

, ,  commissions  of  the  peace  in, 

569. 

,  earl  of.    S«e  Mowbray. 

Notyngham,  William,  35,  98,  205,  391,  449, 
467,  519,  530,  564. 

, ,  attorney-general,  1. 

Nova  Foresta,  co.  York,  169. 

Novo  Burgo,  Robert  de,  408. 

Nowers,  John,  263,  264,  418. 

,  Richard,  263. 

Nubuiy.    See  Newbury. 

Nuneaton,  co.  Warwick,  priory  of,  199. 

,  Matilda,  prioress  of,  199. 

Nusted.     See  Newhonse. 

Nutfield,  Notfelde,  co.  Surrey,  504, 

Nuthill,  Nuthyll  in  Holdernesse,  co.  York, 
454. 

Nuthill,  Antony,  225,  226,  454. 

Nutley,  Notteley,  co  Buckingham,  abbot  and 
convent  of,  137. 

William,  abbot  of,  137. 

"^il  liam  Staunton,  abbot  of,  55 1 . 

Nutte,  Thomas,  258. 

Nutwell,  CO.  Devon,  476. 


GENERAL  INDEX. 


679 


Kycoll.    See  Nicholl. 
Njghtingale.    See  Nightingale, 
lilyvet,  in  Ireland,  117. 
Nyweham.     See  Newenbam. 


o. 

Oakham,  Okeham,  co.  Rotland,  6,  418. 
Oakle,  Graunsomysoele,  co.  Gloucester,  153, 

486. 
Oaklej,   Ocley,   Okeley,  co.    Bedford,    195, 

3*69. 
Occlcve,  CO.  Bedford,  hospital  of  St.  John  the 

Baptist,  89. 
Ockham,  Okham,  co.  Surrey,  6. 
Ocley.     See  Oakley. 
Odam,  Adam,  12. 

Odcombe,  Odecombe,  co.  Somerset,  131. 
Oddingley,  Odyngley,  co.  Worcester,  131. 
Odelsaia,  876. 
Odiham,  Odyham,  CO.  Southampton,  11,  21- 

23,  123,  124,  198,  209,  373,  430,  460, 

481. 

,  hundred  of,  460,  481. 

,  charter  dated  at,  160. 

Odo,  bishop  of  Bayeux  and  earl  of  Kent,  402, 

403. 
Odyham.     See  Odiham. 
Odyngley.     See  Oddingley. 
Oflham,  CO.  Sussex,  443. 
Offington,  CO.  Sussex,  457. 
Offle,  Great  [co.  Hertford],  545. 
Offord,  CO.  Huntingdon,  486. 
Ogard,  Ogerd,  Andrew,  12,  107,  135,  226. 

,  Alice  his  wife,  135. 

,  Henry,  12,  107,  226. 

Ogboume,  Okeboume,  co.  Wilts,  141,  176. 
,  alien  priory  of,  73,  74,  76,  108,  113, 

120,  140,  141,  150,  151,  168,  176,  428. 

,  Great,  141,  176,  314,  316. 

,  Tittle.  141,176. 

,  St.  George,  141,  176. 

Ogle,  Richard,  335,  450. 

,  Robert,  29,  44,  66. 

,  ,  of  Ogle,  113,  233,  450,  466, 

569. 

,  William,  66,  349. 

Ohedian,  John,  archdeacon  of  Cashel,  273. 

Oilli,  Fulk  de,  62. 

Okeboume.    See  Ogboume. 

Okeham.    See  Oakham. 

Okehampton,  co.  Devon,  116,  317,  328,  872. 

,  hundred  of,  110,  323. 

Oker,  John,  26. 

Okham.     See  Ockham. 

Okore,  Philip,  sheriff  of  Nottingham,  496. 

Okyugdeo,  William,  191. 

Oldbury,  co.  Gloucester,  208. 


Oldburyland,  co.  Cambridge,  169. 

Olde,  John,  319. 

Oldehalle,  OldhaUe,  William,  45,  180,  205. 

Oldham,  Robert,  279. 

Oldland,  co.  Gloucester,  382. 

Oldlawitta,  co.  Comwall,  225,  227,  331. 

Old  Sarura,  co.  Wilts,  chapel  of  Holy  Cross 

in  castle  of,  77. 
Oldswynford.     See  Swinford. 
Oldum,  Oldun,  Robert,  75,  456. 
Oliver,  Thomas,  336, 360. 
Ollerton,  co.  Hereford,  50. 
Ollesbroun,  Peter,  29. 
Olney,  co.  Buckingham,  462. 
Olton.     See  Oulton. 
Olway  Brook,  co.  Monmouth,  425. 
Olyve,  CO.  Kent,  256. 
Ongar,  Ongre,  co.  Essex,  6. 

,  High,  Hyhunger,  co.  Essex,  416. 

Onley,  Robert,  487. 
Orchard,  Edmund,  204. 

,  John,  99,  282,  452,  563. 

Orcheyerd,  Robert,  299. 
'Ordgrave,  Edmund,  202. 
Ordnance,  36,  183,  280,  303,  390. 

y  master  of.     See  Harveys ;  Wode. 

,  clerk  of.     See  Gye. 

Orell,  Geoi^e,  206,  284. 

OreKton,  Worston  Passage,  co.  Devon,  536. 

Orewell,  co.  Cambridge,  509. 

Orieta,  Pellegrinus  de,  515. 

Orival,  charter  dated  at,  403. 

Orlestone,  Orlaston,  co.  Kent,  330. 

Orleton,    Adam  de,    bishop   of   Winchester 

[1334-1345],  252. 
Orlingbury,     Orlynbere,    co.     Northampton, 

195,  369. 

Orme,  John,  32. 

Ormesby,  Arthur,  567,  573. 

,  William  de,  159. 

Ormond,  James,  255. 

,    ,    earl    of    Wiltshire.      See 

Butler. 

,  John,  268. 

,  Thomas,  92,  265,  486. 

,  Anne  his  wife,  265. 

Ormside,  Ormeshed,  co*.  Westmoreland,  501. 

Orpy,  Robert,  221. 

Orsini,  de  Ursinis,  Cincius,  alien  preceptor 

of  the  priory  of  Rome,  52. 
Orston,  CO.  Nottingham,  87. 
Orton,  Overton  Saucy,  co.  Leicester,  187, 362. 
Orwell,  [co.  Suffolk],  553. 
Osbam,  Robert,  507. 
Osbeme,  Thomas,  17.  138,  347. 
Osbom,  John,  256. 
Oseney,  co.  Oxford,  198. 

,  abbot  and  convent  of,  498. 

,  charter  dated  at.  160. 

Osgathorp,  co.  Leicester,  287,  3C2. 
Onmonderlowc,  John,  coroner  of  Stafford,  518. 


680 


GENERAL  INDEX. 


Ospringe.  Osprjnge,  co.  Kent,  86,  820,  380, 

465,  548. 

charter  dated  at,  400. 

Osterlowe,  in  South  Wales,  114. 

Oswaldestre.     See  Oswestry. 

Oswaldkirk,  co.  York,  422. 

Oswestry,  Oswaldestre,  co.  Salop,  448. 

Otertowne,  co.  Somerset,  192. 

Othe,  Walter,  154. 

Othelee,  WilUam,  266. 

Otryngton.     See  Otterton. 

Otteley,  Thomas,  505. 

Otter,  bttur,  John,  38,  149,  181. 

Otter  Hunt,  127. 

Otterton,    Oterton,  Otiyngton,    co.    Devon, 

priory  of,  97,  144. 

Ottery  St.  Mary,  co.  Devon,  319. 

,  warden  and  college  of,  62 . 

....,  prebend  in  church  of,  80. 

Ottur.     See  Otter. 
Otware,  Henry,  475. 

,  Katharine  his  wife,  475. 

Ouby,  Thomas,  317. 
Oudedale,  Adam,  8. 
Oueney.    See  Quincy. 
Ougham,  49. 

Oughterard,  Waghterard,  [co.  Kildare],  69. 
Ongle,  Thomas,  867,  522. 
Oolton,  Olton,  co.  Suffolk,  518. 
Ouresby.     See  Haunserd. 
Ouse,  Owese,  river,  co.  York,  35,  228,  388, 
451,  528. 

Ousefleet,  Usflcte,  co.  York,  3. 

Ouseland,  co.  Nottingham,  460. 

Ousthorp,  Dan  John,  abbot  of  Selby,  550. 

Outlawe,  Bichard,  302. 

Outhiwry,  pardons  of,  1-6,  19,  49,  53,  57,  91, 
172-176,  181,  211,  216,  253-259,  263, 
266,  267,283,  284,  295,  296,  300,  314- 
320,  824,  881,  382,  410-42'.,  439,  440^ 
442,  459,  469,  470,  474-476,  485, 
501-513,  518,  519,  .'^21,  526,  585-537, 
540,  544,  545,  555. 

Ovenden,  Ovynden,  co.  York,  524. 
Over,  CO.  Cambridge,  460. 
Overay.     See  Overey. 
Overborowe.     See  Burrow,  Over. 
Overburyhall  in  Leyham,  co,  Suffolk,  200, 
458. 

Overewodehind  [co.  Cornwall],  488. 
Overey,  John,  318. 

,  Overay,  William,  101,  202. 

Overhall  in  Lavenham,  co.  Suffolk,  197. 
Overhamme,  co.  Worcester,  434,  456. 
Overmedowe,  John,  374. 
Overmerssh,  co.  Chester,  7,  9,  104. 
Overs,  CO.  Salop,  hundred  of,  475. 
Oversolde,  co.  Sussex,  448. 
Overswelle,  co.  Gloucester,  330. 
Overton,  co.  Salop,  542. 
Overton  Quatermars.     See  Cole  Orton. 


Overton  Saucy.    See  Orton. 

Oving,  Ovyng,  co.  Buckingham,  219. 

Ovingham,  co.  Northumberland,  328,  340. 

And  see  Snyngham. 
Ovy,  Robert,  471. 
Ovyngton,  Thomas,  429. 
Owelehole,  co.  DeTon,  227,  859,  372. 
Owese.    See  Ouse. 
OwBton,  CO.  Lincoln,  484. 
Oxborough,  Oxeburgh,  co.  Norfolk,  184. 
Oxebrigge,  Oxenbrige,  Robert,  205,  451. 
Oxenden,  co.  Gloucester,  509. 
Oxenden,  John,  63,  101,  102,  133. 
Oxeney,  Oxney,  Thomas,  143,  217. 
Oxenford,  John  de,  46*2. 

, ,  dean  of  Salisbury,  342. 

,  Thomas,  848. 

Oxenhall,  Oxenhale,  co.  Gloucester,  158,  486. 

Oxford,  3,  105,  115,  170,  198,  253,  255,  264, 

303,  3.55,  373,  414,  418,  430,  435,  480, 

481. 

,  mayor  and  burgesses  of,  249,  309. 

,  charters  dated  at,  139,  160,  235,  244, 

250,  875,  895,  896,  402,  498,  499,  556. 

,  letters  patent  dated  at,  71,  84,  100. 

,  archdeaconry  of ,  27. 

,  earl  of.     See  de  Vere. 

,  Friars  Preachers  of,  prior  and  convent 

of,  286. 
,  Friars  Minor  of,  guardian  and  convent 

of,  71. 

...,  cordwainers  of,  340. 

,  University  of,  chancellor   of.      See 

Neville. 

Oxford  Colleges: 

Oriel,  provost  and  scholars  of,  27. 

,  Henry  Sampson,  provost  of,  27. 

Queen's  Hall,  provost  and  scholars  of,  308. 

,  John  Pereson,  provost  of,  308. 

New  College,  warden  and  fellows  of,  27,  54. 

,  warden  and  scholars  of,  27, 285. 

,  Thomas  Chaundeler,  warden  of,  54, 

511. 

All  Souls,  warden  and  scholars  of,  148, 
510. 

,  William  Foteman,  warden  of,  61G. 

St   Mary   College    of   Wynchestre.      See 
New  College. 

Oxford,  commissions  of  the  peace  in,  570. 

,  county  of,  28,47, 64,93,  98,  108,  110, 

123,  126,  133,  149,  154,  203,  264,  278, 
302,  303,  346,  347,  889,  891,  479,  494, 
580. 

, ,  sheriff  of,  17,  51,  53,  203,  278, 

302,  389,  435,  480,  526,  580. 

And  see  Harcourt ;  Skull ;  Brokes. 

, escheator  in,  224,290,291,  334, 

455,  477. 

And  see  Waget;   Lynde      Stokes; 

Austen. 

,  ,  outlawries  in,  254,  816,  v318, 

414,417,420,  511. 


i 


GENERAL  INDEX. 


681 


Oxford,  county  of,  commissions  of  the  peace 
in,  570. 

Oxney,  Isle  of,  co.  Kent,  268,  411 

Oznej.     See  Oxeney. 

Ozton,  CO.  Somerset,  145. 

Oxwich,  Oxenwiche,  co.  Glamorgan,  4S6. 

Oye,  in  the  marches  of  Calais,  lordship  of  90, 
180,  478. 

Oylleyo,  Henry  de,  499. 

,  Robert  de,  499. 

Oystermouth  [co.  Glamorgan],  81. 


p. 


Pachet,  Henry,  176. 

,  Thomas,  265,  491. 

Pnckington,  Pakynton,  co.  Stafford,  6. 
Packington  Pygot,  co.  Warwick,  490. 

,  Prion*,  CO.  Warwick,  490. 

Paddiogton,  Podyngton,  co.  Chester,  292. 
Paddokthorp,  co.  York,  867. 
Padworth,  [co.  Berks],  357. 
Padyngthorp,  co.  York,  149,  181. 
Paganel,  Ralph,  376,  377. 

,  Alexander,  876,  877. 

,  Agnes  his  wife,  377. 

,  Jordan,  376,  377. 

Page,  John,  258. 

,  Richard,  200. 

,  Beatrice  ius  wife,  200. 

,  Robert,  503. 

Paglesham,  Pakelesham,  Pakesham,  co.  Essex, 
145,  583. 

Pagrave,  John,  the  younger,  471. 

Painswick,  Payneswyke,  co.  Gloucester,  441. 

Pakelesham.    See  Paglesham. 

Pakeman,  John,  255,  463. 

,  Margaret  bis  wife,  463. 

Pakenham,  Hugh,  89, 472,  505. 

,  John,  174,484. 

Pakynton.     See  Packington. 

Palespark,  pasture  called,  22. 

Palfryman,  William,  874. 

Palmer,  John,  2,  258,  302,  881. 

,  Nicholas,  505. 

,  Richard,  194,  266. 

,  Robert,  135,  199. 

,  Thomas,  30,  34,  111,  182,  283,  374, 

417,  632,  549,  566. 

,  William,  817. 

Panell,  William,  189. 

Panfield,  co.  Bssex,  64. 

,  priory  of,  64. 

Pantar,  Henry,  419. 

Pany,  John,  514. 

Papcastle,  co.  Cumberland,  466. 

Papinholt,  in  Bere  forest,  co.  Southampton, 
56. 


Papley,  Thomas,  315. 

Papworth,  co.  Cambridge,  169. 

Paradise,  debts  paid  that  a  soul  may  rise  to, 

107. 
Parchemanere,  Athelina  le,  500. 
Parchet,  WiUiam,  218. 
Pareham.    See  Parkham. 
Paris  Garden,  uo.  Surrey,  451. 
Parisshe,  Parys,  Thomas,  485. 
Park,  Robert,  43. 
Parker,  Edmund,  20. 

,  Hugh.  32. 

,  John,  64,  194,  258,  487,  521,  553. 

,  Nicholas,  302,  415. 

,  Paul,  64. 

Richard,  270. 

,  Robert,  337. 

,  Thomas,  32,  65. 

,  William,  32,  90,  206,  463. 

Parkeriffge,  co.  Devon,  228,  372. 

Park  Hall,  Parkehalle  in  Theydon  Gamon,  co. 
Essex,  116,856. 

Parkham,  Pareham,  co.  Devon,  64,  192,  212, 
372. 

Parliament,  14,  18,  38,  47,  65,  68,  72, 89,  130, 
144,  147,  183,  194,  211,  213,  215,  220, 
222,  300,  309,  821,  322,  825,  341,  344, 
858,  359,  374,  378,  405,  422,  426,  436, 
451,  489,  491,  496. 

And  see  Bury  St.  Edmunds;  Glou- 
cester ;  Rending ;  Westminster ; 
York.     Exemptions. 

,  clerk  of.    See  Prestewyk. 

prorogation  of,  289,  296,  825,  359. 

Parlour,  William,  267. 

Parmenter,  Thomas,  4. 

Parmer,  Permere,  co.  Buckingham,  121, 367. 

Parpyn,  John,  169. 

Parr,  Parre,  Par,  Gilbert,  70,  361. 

,  John,  66,  86,  132,  224,  575. 

, ,  sheriff  of  Westmoreland,  187. 

Parr,  Thomas,  27,  34,  66,  562,  575. 

William,  66,  132,  224,  280,  492,  575. 

Parshore.     See  Pershorc. 

Parsnre,  Thomas,  438. 

Fartney,  Partenay,  co.  Lincoln,  173,  184. 

Parys,  John,  264. 

,  ThQmas,  419. 

Pasohaligo,  Nicholas,  231. 

Pashley,  Passheley,  co.  Sussex,  465,  548. 

Passeham.     See  Passenham. 

Passelewc,  Alice,  189. 

,    Robert,    justice   of    the    forest    of 

Henry  III.,  432. 

Passenham,  Passeham,  co.  Northampton,  58. 
Passhcote.     See  Patchcott. 
Paston,  CO.  Northampton,  197. 
Paston,  John*  96,  205,  568. 

,  William,  323,  568. 

Patchcott,  Passhcote,  co.  Devon,  265. 
Patriceseie.    See  Battersea. 


682 


GENERAL  INDEX. 


Patrik,  Simon,  1. 

Patryngton,  Thomas,  378 

PatyDe,  Richard,  43,  211. 

Paiilet,  Pault,  Pawelet,  John,  571. 

,  William,  15,  127,  183,  283,  301,  346, 

364,365,515. 

Pannceford    Court,     Pannsfottesconrte,     co. 
Hereford,  504. 

Pauncett,  Paonset,  co.  Wilts,  15,  512. 

Pavingham,  Pavenham,  co.  Bedford,  2. 

Pavlynstray.     See  St.  Paul's  Cray. 

Pavy,  John,  483. 

Paryllooer,  William,  346,  463. 

Pawelet.     See  Paulet. 

Pawlvn,  Robert,  115. 

,  William,  115. 

Pawnasshe,  co.  Kent,  88,  464,  518. 
Pazman,  William,  510. 
Payhembury  co.  Devon,  319. 
Payn,  John,  4. 

M  mayor  of  Southampton,  220, 

230. 

,  Nicholas,  416. 

,  Richard,  416. 

,  Roger,  506. 

,  Thomas,  266. 

Paynell,  Geoflry,  286. 

,  William,  528,566. 

Payntour,  John,  38,  225,  234. 
Pecche,  Gilbert,  858. 

,  William,  58,  90,  102,  130,431,472, 

666. 

, sheriff  of  Kent,  210,  423. 

..,  Isabel  his  wife,  431. 

Peecheford.     See  Pitchford. 

I'ccker,  William,  4. 

Peckham,  Pekham,  co.  Surrey,  824,  451. 

,  East,  Estpekham,  co.  Kent,  255. 

Pecok,  Richard,  490. 

Pedet'ere,  William,  3. 
Pedehill,  John,  417. 
Pedeltowne.     -See  Piddletown. 
Pederton.     See  Petherton. 
Peeke,  William,  61. 
Peesmershe.     See  Pesemcrsshe. 
Pcete,  Robert,  213. 
Pek,  Pekke,  William,  417,  559. 
Peke,  John,  20,  325. 
Pekham,  James,  230,  301,  566. 
Pekke.    See  Pek. 
Pelham,  John,  S05,  574. 

,  the  father,  138. 

, ,  the  son,  138. 

Pellam,  John,  319. 
Pemberton,  James,  43,  110,  457. 

,  John,  1,  449. 

,  Nicholas,  63,  88,  97. 

Pemberton,  Robert,  260. 

.r ,  William,  mayor  of  Lincoln,  115. 

Pembroke,  in  Wales,  114,  515. 


Pembroke,  East,  114. 

,  West,  114. 

alien  prioiy  of,  120. 

I  burgesses  of,  285. 

,  county  of,  80,  99.  197. 

eail    of.      See    Tudor;    Hastings; 

Mareschall;  Valencia. 

countess  of.    See  Sancto  Paulo. 

>  charter  dated  at,  306. 

Pembroke,  Richard,  abbot  of  ETesham,  9. 

Pembrokes,  Penbrokis,  co.  Middlesex,  176, 
326. 

Pempons.     See  Penpons. 

Pencarreg,  Pencarrec,  [co.  CaermartlienJ,  90. 

Pendaath.     See  Pen-y-clawdd. 

Pencriche,  194. 

Pendleiton,  co.  Salop,  191,  264. 

Pcndley,  Penley,  Pynley,  co.  Hertford,  105, 
121. 

Pendragon,  co.  Westmoreland,  143,  186,  189, 
434. 

Penfoun,  John,  44,  100,  344. 

,  William,  36,  452,  561. 

Pengellcy,  John,  505. 

Penhale,  Penhall,  co.  Cornwall,  197,  287. 

Penicok.    See  Penycok. 

Penkelley,  co.  Brecon,  76,  360. 

Penknek,  co.  Cornwall,  burgesses  of,  221. 

Penkon  etream,  co.  Monmouth,  425. 

Penley,  letters  patent  dated  at,  328-331,  335, 
336,  338,  839,  342,  849,  358,  624,  525, 
534,  570,  571,  673,  574. 
And  see  Pendley. 
Pennall,  John,  parson  of  Llanwrin,  273. 
Pennaly,  co.  Pembroke,  9,  104. 
Pennalyn  (?  Penlean),  oo.  Cornwall,  372. 
Pennant,  John,  chaplain  of  the  household,  8. 
Pennarth,  Thomas,  513. 
Penne,  99. 
Penne,  John,  507. 

Pennenden,  Penynden,  co.  Kent,  544. 
Penpole,  co.  Dorset,  215,  485. 

»  CO.  Cornwall,  220,  225,  227. 

Penpons,  Pempons,  John,  206,  389. 

'  Richard,  204,  206,  488,  561,  563. 

Penquyte  [co.  Cornwall],  513. 
Penrhyn,  Penryn  [co.  Pembroke],  114. 
Penshurst,  co.  Kent,  8. 
Pensford,  co.  Somerset,  146,  226,  257,  454. 
Pentre,  co.  Flint,  487. 
Penoarthe.    See  Pcnwartha. 
Penwartha,  Penuarthe,  co.  Cornwall,  108. 
Penwith,  co.  Cornwall,  hundred  of,  204.- 
>  stannary  of,  461. 

Pen-y-cUwdd,    Penclauth,    co.    Monmouth, 
425. 

Penycok,  Penicok,  John,  28,  36,  45,  91,  484. 

Joan  his  wife,  45. 

Pcnyfadre,  Thomas,  526. 
Penyngton,  Gamaliel,  34. 
,  John,  492. 


i 


GBHTEBAL  INDEX. 


683 


Penyngton,  Robert,  492. 

Penynton,  David,  172. 

Pepillyng.     See  Peuplingae. 

Pepwelles,  Bichard,  257. 

Peroey,  John,  348. 

,Iione],  348. 

,  Walter,  348. 

Perci,  William  de,  842. 

Percy,  Geoffrey  de,  160. 

Henry,  196. 

, ,  first  earl  of  Northumberland 

[1877-1408],  114,  196. 

, ,  Matilda  his  wife,  329. 

,  Benry,  second  earl  [1414-1455],  116, 

186,  455. 

, ,  Eleanor  his  wife,  455. 

,  Henry,  third  earl  [1455-1461],  lord 

of  Ponynges,  26,  29,  32,  39,  44,  48, 
105,  106,  114,  116-118,  149,  186,  189, 
199,  213,  229,  341,  848,  454,  45.5,  466. 

> ,  warden  of  the  east  march   of 

Scotland,  518. 

, ,  Eleanor  his  wife,  42,  199,841, 

364. 

,  Ralph,  262. 

Percy  Fee,  co.  Lincoln,  226,  227. 

Peres,  Piers,  Pyers,  John,  288,  284,  363-365, 
368. 

,  Thomas,  511. 

Peresbrigge,  Thomas,  parson  of  Crick,  107. 

, ,  parson  of  Great  Billing,  107. 

Pereson,  Peresson,  John,  89,  490. 

f   ,    proYOst    of    Queen's    Hall, 

Oxford,  808. 

1 >  warden  of  the  hospital  of  St. 

Julian,  Southampton,  116. 

,  Richard,  28. 

Perkyn,  Richard,  510. 

Pcrkyns,  Thomas,  550. 

,  William,  490. 

Perlour,  William  223. 

Permere.    See  Parmer. 

Pemell,  John,  443. 

Peroy,  Richard,  2. 

Perpont,  Richard,  129. 

Perpyn,  John,  533. 

Perran,  Perrewen,  co.  Cornwall,  488. 

Perrewen.     See  Perran. 

Perry,  Pyrye,  co.  Kent,  465,  548. 

Peirysson,  William,  414. 

Persebrigge,    Thomas,     parson     of     Great 
Billing,  179. 

. .  • > ,  parson  of  Broaghton  Astley,  179. 

Pershore,  Parshore,  co.  Worcester,  327, 830, 
331,  416. 

abbot  and  convent  of,  238 . 

»  Edmund,  abbot  of,  288. 

Person,  John,  382. 

,  Roger,  286. 

,  Alice  his  wife,  286. 

Persons,  Thomas,  324. 

Pert,  William,  85. 


Pertenhale,  Pertynhale,  co.  Bedford,  413,  466. 
Perth,  St.  John's  Town,  in   Scotland,   230, 
263,  888. 

Pertryche,  William,  2. 
Pery,  Richard,  175. 
Peryn,  John,  545. 

,Litell,347. 

Peiyngton,  oo.  Gloucester,  169,  533. 
Perys,  Edmund,  317,  439. 

Pesemersshe,  Peesmershe,  Pesmerssh,  John, 
130,227,471. 

, ,  the  elder,  17. 

Pesselowe.     See  Purslow. 

Pestell,  William,  oscheator  in  the  couutios  of 

Surrey  and  Sussex,  292, 
Pestour,  John  le,  500. 

,  Simon  le,  500. 

Peter,  Thomas  son  of,  500. 

Peterborough,   co.  Northampton,  ISO.    191. 
221,  487. 

,  abbey  of,  275. 

,  abbot  and  convent  of,  191,  275. 

,  Richard,  abbot  of,  )91. 

,  Richard  Assheton,  abbot  of,  43. 

,  charter  dated  at,  407. 

gilds  in  the  church  of  St.  John,  328. 

Peterchurch,  Petirchirche,  oo.  Hereford,  372. 
Petersham,  Petrisham,  co.  Surrey,  97,  124 
144,  186,  274,  275,  525. 

Peter's    Marhtnd,    Petermerlon,   co.   Devon 
265.  ' 

Petewyn,  John,  135. 

Petherton    by   Bridgewater,     co.    Somerset. 
96,  489. 

South,  6,  299. 

Petite,  Petyte,  John,  68,  201,  489. 

,  William,  218,  323. 

Petrisham.     See  Petersham. 

Petworth,  Petteworth,  co.  Sussex,  199. 

Petwyn,  Walter,  prebendary  of  Bridgnorth, 
62. 

Petyer,  William,  278. 

PeupHngue,  Pepillyng,  Pymblynge,  in  Guisnes, 

Picardy,  France,  176.  42R. 
Pevcrel,  honour  of,  226,  353,  445,  480, 
Peverell,  Edward,  28. 
Pevesey.     See  Pewsey. 
Pevesey,  Robert,  parson  of  Calstock,  260. 
Pevesham,    See  Pewsham. 
Peworthy  (?  Beworthy),  co.  Devon,  382. 
Pewsey,  Pevesey,  co.  Wilts,  75,  298. 

Pewsham,  Pevesham,  co.  Wilts,  forest  of.  8 
32,  95,  430,  482. 

Peydelhynton.    See  Piddlehinton. 

Peynaunt,  Richard,  362. 

Peyntour,  John,  149. 

Peysoke,  lliomas,  89. 

Peytevyn,  Richard,  514. 

Peyto,  .Tohn,  2. 

Peyton,  Thomas,  560. 

Philip.  John  son  o^  395. 

Philippa,  queen  of  Edward  III.  192,  806. 


684: 


GENERAL  INDEX. 


Philips,  Phelps,    Phclipp,   Phelippes,  David, 

386. 

,  John,  4,  291,442. 

,  Matthew,  335,  580. 

, ,  mayor  of  London,  334,   888, 

858. 
,  Thomaa,  204,  229,  281,291,  302,  391, 

421,  442,  474,  483,  525. 

,  WiUiam,  123, 188, 282, 292,  854,  490. 

,  Joan  his  wife,  854. 

,  William,  lord  Bardolf,  80,  179,  855. 

, ,  chamberlain  of  the  household  of 

Henry  VI.,  310. 
Philipston,  co.  Dorset,  443. 
Philpot,  Roger,  471. 
Philpotte,  William,  152. 
Phyppe,  Ralph,  374. 
Picardy,  194,  209,  217,  219,  259,  262,  265, 

272,  285,  321,  824,325,  406,  438,  436, 

458,  472,  485,  526,  527,  551. 

Pickering,  co.  York,  848. 
Picot,  Ralph,  402. 

Piddlehinton,     Peydelhynton,    Hynnepedyll, 
Dorset,  73. 

Piddletown,  Pedeltowne,  co.  Dorset,  181. 
Pierpount,  Henry,  184, 185,  457. 
Piers.     See  Peres. 
Pigot,  Richard,  512. 

Pikeryng,  Thomas,  abbot  of  Whitby,  289. 
Pilkington.  Pylkyngton,  George,  prebendary 
of  Bridgnorth,  184. 

,  Henry,  107. 

,John,   17,  19,  70,  95,  113,141,188, 

821,  337,  344,  361,  374,  380,  451,  669, 

577. 

,  Robert,  74. 

,  Thomas,  59,  74. 

Pill  brook,  Peylle,  co.  Monmouth,  425. 

Pilly,  Robert,  523. 

Pimpeme.  Pymperne,  co.  Dorset,  131. 

,  hundred  of,  131. 

Pinchbeck,  Pincebek,  Pynchebek,  co.  Lincoln, 

136,  145,242,270,471. 
PinellunL     See  Spynell. 
Pinkhurst,  Pynkehorst,  co.  Sussex,  443. 
Pinnockshire,  Pynnokshire,  193. 
Pippe,  Pype,  Thomas,  abbot  of  Muchelney, 

285,  457. 

Pippewell,  abbot  and  convent  of,  260. 

,  John,  abbot  of,  260. 

Piracy,  33,    35,  36,    65,   68,   101,  201-203, 

230-288,  301,  347-849,  452,  553. 
Pirates,  excommunication  of,  586*. 
Pirbright,  Purbryght  [co.  Surrey],  131. 
Pirton,  William,  564. 
Pitchford,  Peccheford,  co.  Salop,  87. 
Pitelesden,  Vincent,  12,  26,  94,  99,  129,  262. 
Fittemose,  Robert,  500. 
Pius  IL  pope,  273,  800.  ' 
Pixton,  CO.  Someset,  108. 
Plaisance,  Plesaunce,  in  East  Greenwich,  co. 

Kent,  151. 


I 


Plaisance,  letters  patent  dated  at,  94,  136. 

Plaseden,  John,  22. 

Playden  by  Rye,  co.  Sussex,  hospital  of  St. 
Bartholomew,  86, 145. 

Playne,  Plane,  Thomas,  177. 

Playstowe,  Thomas,  179. 

Plecy,  193. 

Plelpys,  Thomas,  491. 

Plesaunce,  Walter,  291. 

Plescis,  Hugh  de,  330. 

Pleseley,  John,  parson  of  Springthorpe,  17. 

Plokyngton,  Richard,  96. 

Flombe,  William,  381. 

Plomesgate,  Plumesgate,  oo.  Suffolk,  hondred 
of,  100. 

Plommer,    Richard,  parson  of   St.   Peter*s, 
Berkhampstead,  210. 

Plompton.     See  Plumpton. 

Plompton,  Godfrey,  29. 

...  ,  John,  538. 

Plotte,  Thomas,  71. 

Flunket,  Plukenet,  John,  107,  388,  339,  528. 

Plumbo,  John,  17. 

Plumesgate.     See  Plomesgate. 

PlumgajTthe.     See  Plungar. 

Plummer,  John,  134. 

Plumpton,  Plumton,  51. 

.,  CO.  Cumberland,  540. 

Plompton,  00.  Sussex,  1U4,  180,  354, 

356. 

', ,  CO.  York,  177,  286. 

Plumpton,  WiUiam,  177,  285. 

Plumtree,    Plymptre,    co.  Devon,  333,   359, 
364. 

Plumton.     See  Plumpton. 

Plungar,  Plumgarthe,  co.  Leicester,  104,  352. 

Plymouth,  co.  Devon,   16,  83,  309,  629,  536, 
544. 

,  mayor  of,  309. 

And  see  PoUard. 

,  mayor  and  commonalty  of,  269,  309, 

536. 

,  port  of,  188,  233,  234,  269. 

Plymptou,  CO.  Devon,  116,  323. 

i.,  hundred  of,  116,  823. 

prior  of,  87. 

Earle,  co.  Devon,  3,  61,  36. 

Plymptre.  See  Plumtree. 
Plymton.  See  Plympton. 
Pocklington,  Poklington,  co.  York,  39,    42, 

198,  454. 
Podmore,  William,  316,  317. ' 
Podyngton.    See  Paddington. 

Poitiers,  Philip  of,  bishop  of  Durham  [1195- 

1208],  393. 
Poiton,  count  of.     See  Richard. 
Poke,  John,  32. 
Pokebroke.    See  Polebrook. 
'  Pokele,'  [co.  Northampton],  58. 
Pokenell,  John,  413. 
Poket,  John,  prior  of  Barnwell,  842. 


GENERAL  INDEX. 


68j 


Poklington.    See  Focklington. 

Pokyugton.     See  Puckington. 

Poldu.    See  Poljtw. 

Pole.    See  Pool ;  Poole. 

Pole,  Henry,  188. 

Pole,  John,  31,  J  35,  280,  562. 

,  Richard,  816,  817. 

,  William,  268,  381. 

de  la  Pole,  John,  duke  of  Suffolk,  42,  65-67, 
99,  132,  261,  264,304,846,347,435, 
437,  529,  538,  568,  570,  578. 

Elizaheth  his  wife,  42,  261,  435,  487. 

,  Katharine,  abbess  of  Barking,  228. 

..,  Margaret,  525. 

Michael,  earl  of  Suffolk,  430,  480. 

Walter,  525. 

,  Willinm,  earl  of  Suffolk,  261,  310. 

, marquis  of  Suffolk,  180,  205. 

, ,  duke  of  Suffolk,  42,  264. 

,  Alice  his  wife,  98,  145,  264,  446. 

Polebrook,  Pokebroke,  co.  Northampton, 
hundred  of,  191. 

.  Polesworth,  oo.  Stafford,  520. 

,  CO.  Warwick,   abbey  of  St.   Edith, 

524. 
, ,  cnnrent  of,  448. 

,   ,  Benedicta  Prede,  abbess  of, 

415,  448. 
,  Murgaret  Ka8k3'n,  abbess  of, 

524. 

Poleyn,  Richard,  29. 

I'oling,  Pulynge,  co.  Sussex,  443. 

Poljew,  Poldu,  CO.  Cornwall,  197,  287. 

Polkevys,  co.  Cornwall,  108. 

Pollard,  John,  mayor  of  Plymouth,  100. 

,  William,  414. 

Polrnan,  co.  Cornwall,  412. 

Polslo,  CO.  Devon,  prioress  of,  146. 

Polstead  Hall  in  Burnham,  co.  Norfolk  379, 
540,541. 

Pomeray,  Henry,  28,  33,  37,  100,  192,  201, 
232,  303^  490,  529,  563. 

,  St.  Clare,  28,  192,204,  303. 

,  Katharine  his  wife,  192. 

Ponsebury,  Thomas,  16. 

Pontage  granted,  12. 

Pont  Audemer,  St.  Giles  of,  alica  house  of,  73. 

I*ont  de  TArche,  charter  dated  at,  898. 

Pontefract,  Pountfret,  co.  York,  469. 

,  letters  patent  dated  at,  291,  292,299, 

303,  825,  334,  885,  343,  348,  358,  366, 
388,  567-569,  572,  577. 

,  prior  and  convent  of,  558. 

Pontcsbury,  William,  315. 

Ponynges,  lord  of.     See  Percy. 

Ponynges,  Robert,  545. 

Pool,  Pole,  CO.  Devon,  108,  359. 

,  North,  Northepole,  119,  429. 

,  South,  333,  359,  364,  365. 

Poole,  Pole,  CO.  Dorset,  74.  301 ,  358. 

,  mayor  of,  451. 

And  see  Spadard ;  White. 


Poole,  mayor  and  buigesees  of,  74. 

,  port  of,  20,  74,  79,   110,   117,    185, 

188,294,  386,  432,  451,  514,  540. 

,  ship  called  le  James  of,  234. 

,  Wyrebarowe  by,  101, 

Poole,  Henry,  3, 

Poor,    Richard,  bishop  of  Durham    [1228- 
1237],  895. 

Poorstock,  Pourestoke,  co.  Dorset,  170,  430, 
480. 

Poort,  Richard,  200. 

Pope,  the,  121,  220,  290,  332,  370,  455,  477, 
534,  536,  542. 

,  indult  of,  9,  345. 

,  legate  of,  2,  11,  27. 

,  nuncio  of.     See  Clementis. 

,  subdeacon  of.    See  Clementis. 

Pope  John  XXI II.  405. 

Martin  V.  405. 

Urban  VI.  405. 

Pius  II.  273,300. 

Pope,  Edward,  3. 
Popsale,  CO.  Hertford,  131. 
Por,  William,  549. 

Porchester,  Porecestre,  co.  Southampton,  25, 
118,  136,504. 

,  charters  dated  at,  ISrt,  245,  405. 

,  forest  of,  118,  495. 

Porchett,  John,  264. 
Porecestre.     See  Porchester. 

Portavthoy,    Portaythwy,   in   North    W»!es, 
"  112,  137. 

Port,     John,    coroner    in    the    county    of 
Worcester,  553. 

,  Richard,  200. 

.William,  813,  526. 

Porte,  William,  keeper  of  the  kingV  jewels, 
326. 

Porter,  Adam,  545. 

,  Jchn,36,  99,  203,  204,  231,  301,  302, 

846,  364,  865,  571. 

,  Thomas,  847. 

William,  43,  49,  259,  298,  316,  503. 

Poites,  John,  217. 

Portland,  Portelond,  co.  Dorset,  131. 

Portlester,  co.  Meath,  178. 

Aitd  see  FitzEustace. 

Portloo,  CO.  Cornwall,  225,  227,  331. 

Portloathe,  William,  259. 

Portpigham,  Porypighan,  co.  Cornwall,  225, 

227,  331. 
Ports.    See  Boston  ;    Bridgewater ;  Bristol ; 

Calais ;       Chichester ;      Dartmouth  ; 

Dover;    Exeter;    Fowey;    Ipswich; 

Kingston-on-Hull ;    London ;     Lynn  ; 

Melcombe;    Newcastle-on-Tyne:  Ply. 

moutlT ;  Poole ;  Sandwich  ;  Soutnamp- 

ton ;  Wevmouth. 

Portsmouth,  Portesmuth,  145,  202,  553. 

,  burgesses  of,  145. 

,  merchant  gild  in,  145. 

,  charters  dated  at,  158,  171,  24.5,  299, 

405. 


6S6 


GENERAL  INDEX. 


Portugal,  ships  of,  203. 
Portyngton,  Robert,  the  elder,  451,  528. 
Poslingford  [co.  Suffolk],  268. 
Possebury,  eo.  Devon,  265. 
PostcU,  Richard,  dean  of  Wolverhampton,  61. 
Po6tern,  co.  Derby,  81. 
Postwick,  Possewik,  eo.  Norfolk,  141. 
Poteman,    William,    warden    of   All   .SouIh 
College,  Oxford,  510. 

Potte,  Robert,  411. 

Potteford.     See  Putford. 

Potter,  William,  420. 

Pouillon,  in  Aquitaine,  83. 

].'oule  Belchamp.     See  Belchamp  St.  Paul. 

Poulglas,  John,  488. 

Poande,  Thomas,  571. 

Poundeknolle.    See  PuncknoU. 

Pount,  Nicholas  le,  254. 

Pountfret    See  Pontefract. 

PountknoU.    See  Puncknoll. 

Pourestoke.     See  Poorstock. 

Pourt,  Thomas,  287. 

Povington,  Povyngton,  co.  Dorset,  108,  150. 

Powder,  Poudre,  co.  Com  wall,  hundred  of,  204. 

Powedefeld,  pasture  called,  22. 

Poweke,  John,  545. 

Powele,  John,  314. 

Power,  John,  99,  100. 

,  Robert,  417. 

,  Agnes  his  wife,  417. 

Powesse.    See  Grey. 

Powys,  Master  Thomas,  warden  of  the  King's 
Hall,  Cambridge,  103. 

Poyle,  CO.  Surrey,  428,  522. 
Poyutz,  Humphrey,  254,  503,  531. 
Pralle,  Thomas,  mayor  of  Totnos,  33. 
Pranke,  Simon,  204. 
Prat,  Thomas,  5. 

, ,  Agnes  his  wife,  5. 

Pratt,  William,  257. 

Pratte, ,  347. 

Prede,  Benedicta,  abbess  of  Polesworth,  448. 
Predenek,  co.  Cornwall,  287. 
Prentyce,  William,  32. 
Prentys,  John,  4. 
Prest,  William,  373. 
Preste  Croft,  co.  Cumberland,  445. 
Prestewyk,  William,  master  of  Chancery  and 
clerk  of  Parliament,  163. 

Preston,  co.  Buckingham,  440. 

CO.  Suffolk,  197,  287. 

,  CO.  Sussex,  76,  443. 

,  CO.  York,  186,  435,  455. 

Preston.  John,  412. 

,  Thomas,  412,  490. 

,  Richard,  196. 

,  Stephen,  96. 

,WUliam,  861. 

Prestwyk,  Robert,  258. 
Prevet,  Peter,  532. 


Prewet,  William,  100. 

Preyers,  co.  Bssez,  197. 

Priaulz,  Saint  Legier  in,  in  Normandy^  abbess 
and  convent  of,  74. 

PrihauU.    See  Stour  Pri&ulx. 

Princes  Fee,  eo.  Derby,  422. 

Princes  Risborough,  Princes  Rysborgh,  co. 
Buckingham,  146. 

Prisot.    See  Prysot. 

Pristeley,  William,  339. 

PriUlewell,  CO.  Essex,  268. 

Priyy  seal,  keeper  of.    See  Stillingtou. 

Frofyte,  Richard,  521,  555. 

Promehill.    See  Broomhill. 

Proudehowe.    See  Prudhoe. 

Proiu,  Thomas,  31. 

Proute,  John,  275,  390. 

,  Thomas,  215,  223,   261,   335,   476, 

538. 

Prowdehowe.    See  Prudhoe. 

Prowet,  Thomas,  228. 

Pnidde,  John,  273. 

Prudhowe,  Purdowe,  Proudehowe,  co.  North- 
umberland, 44,  110,  143,  213,  328, 
340. 

Pruetj  Alexander,  87. 
Pmette,  William,  414. 
Prussia,  ship  of,  529. 
Prussians,  276. 
Pruyle,  John  de,  803. 
Pryket,  John,  170. 
Prykproude,  Richard,  5 14. 
Prylle,  Robert,  526. 
Prynce,  Robert,  4. 

,  William,  201. 

Frysemayse,'  custom  called,  40,  546. 
Prysot,  Prisot,  John,  602. 

, ,  late  justice  of  the  Bench,  1,  5, 

19,  49,57,  172-175, 181,211,253-259, 
288,  284,  295,  296,  814-320,  SSI, 
410-420,  469,  474,  501-511,  513, 
587. 

Puckington,  Pokyugton,  co.  Somerset,  108. 

Pudde,  John,  316. 

Pndsay,  Ralph,  63. 

Pudsey,  Hugh,  bishop  of  Durham  [1153  - 
1195],  341,378,  392,  404. 

,  Robert,  288. 

Pugeys,  imbert,  408. 

Pulborough,  Pulbegh,  oo.  Sussex,  234. 

Pttlham,  East,  Estpullam,  co.  Dorset,  525. 

.West,  525. 

Pulham,  Hamo,  200. 
Pull,  John  de,  336. 
Polteney,  John,  346,  463,  566. 
I'uiter,  John,  528,  565. 
Pulvertoft,  Gilbert,  502. 
,  Tliomas,  412. 

Ponchon,  John,  13,  266. 

Puncknoll,  PoundeknoU,  PountknoU,  co, 
Dorset,  225,  485. 


GENERAL  INDEX. 


687 


Parbcck,  Purbek,  co.  Dorset,  128. 

,  Isle  of,  232. 

,  forest  of,  97,  484. 

Purbryght.     See  Pirbright. 
Purcell,  Peter,  69. 
Purchoae,  William,  303. 
Purcbet,  John,  264. 
Purdowe.     See  Prudhowe. 
Purpet,  Roger,  326. 
Porpill,  William,  20,  98. 
PurpoiDt,  Hem'j,  220. 
Purser,  Roger  de,  287. 

Porslow,   Pesselowe,  hundred  of,  co.  Salop, 

443. 
Pnrssell,  Thomas,  355. 
Pury,  Edmnnd,  mayor  of  New  y^iodsor,  551. 

,  John,  123. 

,  Richard,  510. 

Paryfey,  William,  605. 

Putford,  Potteford,  co.  Devon,  64. 

,  West,  372. 

Pycheford,  William  de,  395. 
Pycombe,  Edward,  520,  555. 
Pydelsden,  Vincent,  652. 

Pyder,    Pydre,    co.    Cornwall,    hundred    of, 
204. 

Pye,     John,    prebendary    of    St.     George, 
Windsor,  69. 

,  Roger,  27. 

Pyerpount,  Roger,  489. 

And  see  Pierpount. 
Pyers.    See  Peres. 
Pyp:e,  Thomas,  135. 
Pygot,  Geoffrey,  29. 

,  Richard,  35,  102,  206,  538,  576. 

f  Thomas,  258. 

Pyke,  William,  61. 
Pykeryng,  James,  60. 

,  James,  esquire,  60. 

, ,  Margaret  his  wife,  GO. 

James,  knight,  60,  316. 

Pykethowe,  Thomas,  492. 
Pylbergh,  Stephen,  416. 
Pylche,  William,  817. 
Pylkyngton.     See  Pilkington. 
Pyllesden,  Pyllysden,  John,  37. 

,  Roger,  37. 

Pylsshe,  Tlwmas,  175. 
Pylton,  Richard,  507. 
Pymblynge.    See  Peuplingue. 
Pyme,  Thomas,  290. 
Pympeme.     See  Pimpeme. 
Pynchebek.    See  E^nchbek.- 
Pynchbek,  John,  35,  528,  566. 

Richard,  35,  528,  566. 

Pynchelegh,  co.  Cornwall,  372. 
Pynchemore,  John,  28,  31. 
Pynley.    See  Pendley. 
Pynne,  alien  abbot  of,  46. 
Pynnok,  John,  470. 
Pype.    See  Pippe. 


Pyperton,  co.  Cambridge,  169. 

P>Tle,  Robert,  526,  535,  542. 

Pyrs,  Walter,  411. 

Pyrton,  William,  66,  277,  347,  564. 

Pyrye.     See  Perry. 

Pyryngton,  Dan  Robert,  rector  of  St.  Leonard 
in  Estchepe,  London,  288. 


Q- 


Qnadebek,  Hermann,  129. 

Quadring,  Quadryng,  co.  Lincoln,  169. 

Quantockshead,  Cantokeshede,  Estcantok,  co. 

Somerset,  286,  366. 
Quapplod.     See  Whaplode. 
Qoarley,  Qwarley,  co.  Southampton,  140. 
Quarr,  Isle  of  Wight,  convent  of,  149. 

,  abbot  and  convent  of,  557. 

,  John  Cheselburgh,  abbot  of,  38. 

,  John,  abbot  of,  203. 

,  John  Wynchestre,  abbot  of,  557. 

,  William,  abbot  of,  557. 

Quarme,  Quarom,  co.  Somerset,  265. 

Quatennayns,  Richard,  264,  278,  283,  284, 
301,  346,  847,  389,  538,  570. 

Quedgley,  Qaeddesley,  co.  Gloucester,  525. 
Queenborongh,  Quenesbnrgh,  co.   Kent,   56, 
64,  148. 

,  mayor  of,  302. 

Quenaton,  Alexander,  417. 

Quenecourt  in  Tytherlcy,  co.  Southampton, 
220, 299. 

in  Melksham,co.  Wilts,  385. 

Quenesburgh.    See  Queenborongh. 

Qnemdon.    See  Quorodon. 

Quincy,  Oueney,  Saher  de,  earl  of  Winches- 
ter, 394. 

Qnomdon,  Querndon,  co.  Leicester,  196,  354. 

Qnyne,  Thomas,  507. 

Qwhytbum,  John,  275. 

Qwynfeld.    See  Whinfell. 


R. 


Rabayne,  Ellas  de,  884. 

,  Matilda  his  wife,  884, 

Rabet,  Laurence,  259. 
Racche.    See  Neroehe. 
Rachford.    See  Rochford. 
Rachiche.    See  Neroehe. 


G88 


GENBRilL  INDEX. 


Radcl}-ff,     Radcclyff,     Robert,     admiral    of 
Norfolk  uQd  Suffolk,  41. 

.George,  513. 

,  Geoffrey,  30. 

'..,  James,  30,  533. 

,  John,  30,  207. 

,  Roger,  30,  89. 

,  Thomas,  30,  47C,  51:}. 

,  William,  30. 

Raddon,  East,  Hiatraddon,  co.  Devon,  519. 

Radenore.     See  Radnor. 

Radlot,  CO.  Somerset,  366. 

Radney.    See  Rodney. 

Radnor,  Radenore,  co.  Hereford,  372. 

,  charter  dated  at,  497 

letters  patent  dated  at,  81. 

Radwell.     See  Ridgewell. 

Raff,  WilUam,  504. 

Raghston,  Richard,  389. 
Raglan,  co.  Monmouth,  425,  426. 

bounds  of  lordship  of,  495. 

Raglan,  Hugh,  parson  of  Carew,  50. 

Ragnall,  Ragenholl,  co.  Nottingham,  226. 

Railegh.    See  Rayleigh. 

Railton,  Reilton,  Richard,  332. 

RaincUff,  Rcjuclyf,  co.  York,  63. 

Raithby,  Ratheby,  co.  Lincoln,  468. 

Rake,  Henry,  90. 

Ralegh,  Raleygh,  Raly,  Edward,  266. 

,  John,  28. 

i  Walter,  28,  34,  37,  64,  89,  99,  232, 

233,  801,  346,  364,  365,  563. 

,  WiUiam,  266. 

Ralph,  John  son  of,  167. 

Rame  Head,  Ramhede,  co.  Cornwall,  536. 

Rammysbotem,  Robert,  389. 

Rampishaw,  Ramsham,  co.  Dorset,  215,  225, 

485. 

Ramsbury,  Rammesbury,  co.  Dorset,  443. 
Ramsey,  co.  Huntingdon,  185. 

,  charter  dated  at,  156. 

,  abbot  and  convent  of,  408. 

,  John,  abbot  of,  408. 

,  Edmund,  abbot  of,  408 . 

,  Simon,  abbot  of,  408. 

Ramsey,  John,  232. 

,  Thomas,  389. 

Ranby,  Robert,  parson  of  Knville,  381. 
Randolf,  John,  273. 

.Thomas,  141. 

Rascn,  Rasne,  co.  Lincoln,  376. 

,  West,  377. 

,  East,  218. 

Rasshe,  John,  338,  339,.  528. 
Rashleigh,  Raisshley,  co.  Devon,  265 
Ratburgh,  co.  Kent,  193,  292. 
Ratclyff,  John,  87. 

, ,  esquire,  87. 

,  Elizabeth  his  wife,  87. 

Rat  ford,  Henry,  67. 


Rathcoure,  CO.  Meath,  181. 

Rathcridane,  CO.  Dublin,  105,  178. 

Kathebary.    See  Rothbarj. 

Ratheby.    See  Raithby. 

Rathwere,  in  Ireland,  340. 

Ratoath,  Ratoathe,  Rathtouth,  eo.  Meath.  198. 
340. 

Ratso,  Martin  de,  203. 

Raaghton  in  Dalston,  co.  Camberland,  332. 

Raundes,  Richard,  488. 

Raunston.    See  Ravenstone. 

Ravendale,  co.  Lincoln,  alien  priory  of,  84. 

Ravenser,  Richard  de,  master  of  the  hospital 

of  St.  Leonard,  York,  247. 
Ravensthorpe,  co.  York,  39,  86,  458. 

cum  Boltby,co.  York,  87. 

Ravenstone,     Raunston,    eoe.     Derby     and 

Leicester,  177,  854. 

»  CO.  Baekingfaam,  conrent  of,  886. 

Thomas  Wolvercote,  prior  of,  386. 

Ravensworth,  Ravenswath,  co.  York,  169. 

Ravenswath.    See  FitzHngh. 

Ravesasshe.    See  Rose  Ash. 

Rawdon,  Nicholas,  prebendary  of  Coton,  387. 

Bawe,  Richard,  31. 

Rawelyn,  John,  38. 

Raweson,  Thomas,  389. 

Bawlyn,  Richard,  85. 

Rawmarsh,  Rawemerssh,  co.  York,  258. 

Rawns,  Martin,  526. 

Raydirgey,  in  Wales,  27. 

Raydon  Hall,  Merkis  in,  72. 

Rayleigh,  Railegh,  Reylegh,  co.  Essex,  18,83, 
268. 

Raymond,  Edmund,  503. 
Raynell,  Robert,  31. 

,  Walter,  81,  37. 

Raynford,  Raynforth,  Reynford,  Henry,  570. 

»  Laurence,  277,  347,  553,  564. 

*r'':'"  ^^®"*f  ^^  Essex  and  Hertford, 

02o. 

Raynham,  Reynam,  co.  Essex,  232. 
Raynold,  Richard,  101. 
Raynward,  John,  206. 
Rayson,  William,  418. 

'51^®®°°'  William,  vicar  of  Eynesham, 

Reade,  co.  Cambridge,  169. 

Reading,  Redyng,  co.  Berks,  191,  255. 

» l^ttew  patent  dated  at,  327,  328  830 

831.  344,  347,  357,  859,  361!  Ssl!  559, 

565. 

'  o?*^«*fr  ^^^  **»  ^^^'  ^^>  285,  305, 

094,  o57. 

,  Parliament  at,  219,  278. 

,  abbot  and  convent  of, 

»  al>bot  of,  73,  125,  305,  547. 

»  Jo'in  de  Appelfbrd,  abbot  of,  805. 

Reccheford,  co.  Hereford,  441. 

Reculver,  co.  Kent,  403. 

Redboum,  oo.  Lincoln,  218,  471,  544. 


GENERAL  INDEX. 


689 


Bedbridge,     Kudbergh,     co.     Southampton, 
hundred  of,  547. 

Redden  Hall,  Redenale,  co.  Norfolk,  52. 

Beddesdale.     See  Redesdale. 

Redditch,  Redyche,  co.  Worcester,  857. 

Rede  in  Qnedgley,  co.  Gloucester,  525. 

Rede  a  ponte  Vajn,  co.  Monmouth,  425. 

Rede,  Edmund,  230,  286,  278,  346,  3«7,  560. 

,  sheriff  of  Bedford  and  Buck- 
ingham, 18. 

,  John,  3,  47,  121,  132,  220,  299,  832, 

851,  550. 

, ,  parson  of  Scrayingham,  50. 

,  Richard,  294. 

,  Thomas,  123,  280,  466. 

.Walter,  283. 

,  William,  507. 

Redehire,  co.  Hereford,  372. 

Redeman,  Richard,  412. 

Redenale.    See  Redden  Hall. 

Redesdale,  Ryddysdale,  co.  York,  189. 

CO.  Northumberland,  29, 113. 

Redknap,  ESdmund,  509. 

,  William,  475,  502,  5C3. 

Redleigh  (?  Ruddle),  co.  Gloucester,  432. 

Redmile,  Redmyld,  co.  liCicester,  104,  352. 

Redsam,  John,  206. 

Red  vers,  Baldwin  de,  539. 

Redwick,  Redwyke  [co.  Monmouth],  114. 

Redwyke.     See  Kedwick. 

Redyng.     See  Reading. 

Ree  in  Quedgley,  co.  Gloucester,  525. 

la  Ree,  co.  Gloucester,  474. 

Ree,  Roger,  78, 189,  268,  564. 

, ,  sheriff  of  Hereford,  455. 

Reede,  Thomas,  531. 

Reeve,  Thomas  the  elder,  374. 

Regne,  Stephen  de  la,  879. 

Reigate,  Regat,  Reygate,  co.  Surrey,  6,  504. 

Reilton.    See  Railton. 

Rempston,  Robert,  178. 

Remys,  Thomas,  3 1 . 

Renhold,  Ronale,  co.  Bedford,  331. 

Renkyn,  John,  413. 

Rennington,  Renyngton,  co.  Northumberland, 
114,841. 

Renyngton.     See  Rennington. 

RepingdoD,  Philip,  bishop  of  Lincoln,  248. 

Repinghale.     See  Rippingale. 

Rep  ton,  Ryppjndon,co.  Derby,  John  Wyllyn, 
prior  of,  84. 

Repynghale.     See  Rippingale. 

Reresby,  Ralph,  277. 

Res  ap  William  ap  Jevan  ap  Cradok,  81. 

Reseby,  Master  John,  516. 

Reson.    See  Ray  son. 

Restell,  John,  510. 

Restormell,  Rostoimell,  co.  Cornwall,  14^  18, 
120,  269,  447. 

Beitryk,  William,  232. 
u    86914. 


Restwold,  Richard,  37,  390. 

,  Thomas,  389,  559. 

Resyng.    See  Rising. 

Itetford,  CO.  Nottingham,  102,  22G. 

,  East,  552. 

Retherhithe.    See  Rotherhithe. 
Retronne,  in  South  Wales,  360. 
Rewley  [co.  Oxford],  abbot  of,  46. 
Rexon,  Rixen,  co.  Somerset,  286,  366. 
Reygate.     See  Reigate. 
Reylegh.     See  Rayleigh. 
Raymond,  Edmund,  331. 

,  Thomas,  258. 

Reynall,  Thomas,  147. 
Reynam.    See  Raynham. 
Reyndyf.     See  RainclifP. 
Reyuer,  John,  874. 

,  Richard,  412. 

,  Thomas,  the  elder,  505,  506. 

Reynes,  Thomas,  559. 
Reynford.    See  Rayuford. 
Reynold,  John,  32. 

,  Roger,  100. 

,  Thomas,  315. 

,  William,  417. 

Reynoldston,  co.  Glamorgan,  426. 

Reysby,  Nicholas,  master  of  the  Semplingham 

order,  809. 
Rhodes,  convent  of,  52. 

Ribblesdale,  Rybblesdale,  co.  York,  116, 
186,  189. 

Riby,  Riebi,  co.  Lincoln,  41. 

RiccaU,  Rikall,  co.  York.  211. 

Richard  1.  king  of  England,  127,  428. 

,  charters  of,  61,  136,   139,  146,  148, 

171,  285,  240,  242,  244-246,  248-251, 
259,  305,  308,  310,  313,  394,  396,  397, 
899,  401,  403-405,  407,  409,  497-499, 
556,  557. 

Richard  II.  8,  10,  11,  14-19,  21-27,  39,  42, 
46-50,  56,  68,  64,  72,  77-80,  88,  86, 
89,  90,  93,  96,  118,  119,  122-125,  127, 
128,  130,  137,  138,  140,  143,  148,  152, 
193,  198,  213,  219,  230,  267,  286,  826, 
335,  386,  338,  389,  845,  846,  357,  384, 
427,  433,  437.  439,  445,  446,  463,  468, 
475,  516,  517,  524,  547,  551,  556. 

,  letters  patent  of,  45,48,58,  61,  62, 

78,  103,  109,  136,  137,  139,  142,  145, 
148,  150,  153,  155-160,  162-164,  166- 
168,  192,  200,  2J0,  221,  223,  229,  235, 
286,  288-245,  247,  249-251,  259,  264, 
285,  296,  305-309,  312,  329,  330,  333, 
340,  855,  378,  392,  395-400,  403-408, 
427,  463,  465,  472,  482,  495,  498,  499, 
523,  527,  538,  555-558. 

,  charters  of,  56,  153,  155-157,  159- 

162,  164,  165,  167,  168,  171,  210,235- 
241,243,245-248,250-252,  276,  291, 
299,  305-308,  311,  312,  898,  396,  899, 
400,  405,  406,  477,  495-499,  538,  555, 
558. 

Great  Roll  of,  5r,  873. 

Richard  III.  13. 

X  X 


090 


GENERA^L  INDEX, 


Richard,  duke  of  York,  earl  of  March  and 
Ulster,  lord  of  Wigmore  and  Clare,  the 
king's  father,  8, 18,  19,  21,  26,  27,  42, 
48,  46-48,  51,  52,  64,  57,  62,  68,  78- 
76,80,83,  85,88,  89,  92,  93j  96-98, 
108,  106-108,  110-118,  116-118,  128- 
131,  184.  137,  139,  142,  143,  145,  148, 
151,  161,  163,  177,  178,  180-182,  185, 
186,  188,  189,  193-196.  198,  199.  205, 
210,  211.  214,  216,  218,  224,  227,  272, 
279,  285,  289,  292,  297,  810,  322,  325, 
327,  329,  334,  335,  340,  343,  344,  346, 
356,  357,  380,  381,  388,  389,  423,  428, 
431, 438,  439,  442,  444,  447,  448,  449, 
463-465,  467,  470, 474,  516,  518,  520, 
522,  532,  537,  544,  547,  549. 

lieatenant  of  Ireland,  40. 

,  governor  of  France  and  Koimandy, 

81. 

,  letters  patent  of,  14,  15,  22,  44,  46, 

51,  63,  54. 57,  60,  81,  82, 89, 93, 94,  96, 
97,  121,  128,  146,  421,  479. 
....,  dnke  of  Gloucester,  the  king's 
brother,  52,  66,  142,  308,  387,  391, 
428,  530. 

,  admiral  of  the  sea,  197,  214. 

,  grante  to,  228,  292. 

earl  of  Cambridge,  the  king's  grand- 
father, 116. 

,  earl  of  Cornwall,  count  of  Poitou, 

king  of  Almain  and  of  the  Romans, 
charters  of,  221,  241,  264,  400,  557. 

Richard  ap  Rees,  478. 

Richard  ap  Tudur  ap  Jemm,  parson  of  Llan- 
rhaiadr  in  Kinmerch,  194. 

,  John,  855. 

Richard's   Castle,     Richardis    Castell,    cos. 

Hereford  and  Salop,  153,  486,  549. 
Richardson,  Adam.  508. 

Joan  his  wife,  508. 

,  John,  255. 

.Thomas,  337. 

,  William,  553. 

Riche,  John,  27. 

Richebourg,  lord  of.     See  Luxemburgh. 

Richeman.  John,  204,  205,  374. 

,  Nicholas,  204. 

Richemond.    See  Richmond. 
Richemond,  John,  506. 

.Robert,  535,542. 

Richmond,  Richemond,  [co.  York],  47,  54, 
169. 

,  hospital  of  St.  Nicholas  at,  169. 

,  archdeacon  of.    See  Shirwode. 

....  ...., ,  jurisdiction  of,  479. 

Richmond,  honour,  county  or  earldom  of,  59, 
92,  187,  138,  152,  169,  170,  190,  197, 
212,214,261,331,348,474. 

,  earl  of.     See  Gaunt ;  Tudor. 

Richyngwode,  John,  31. 

Rickmausworth,  Rykmersworth,  co.  Hertford, 

818. 
Riddetdale,  Uberty  of,  349. 
Ridge  Way,  le  Riggewey,  cos.  Warwick  and 

Worcester,  857. 


Ridgewell,  Radwell,  co.  Essex,  430,  4S  J. 

Ridlington,  Ridlyngton,  co.  Rutland,  9,  101. 

Ridle,  Nicholas,  562. 

Ridley,  Idley,  co.  Kent,  419. 

Ridley,  Archibald,  343. 

RiebL    5ee  Riby. 

Rigby.  Riggeby,  Rygby,  John,  228, 320. 

*...,  Nicholas,  36,  114,  176,  292. 

,  Thomas,  389,  501. 

Rigemond,  Thomas,  lord,  177. 

Rigmaden,  Ryggmayden,  co.  Westmorelaad, 

169. 
Riland  by  Dunham,  co.  Lincoln,  112. 
Rillaton,  Rillyngton,  co.  Cornwall,  78. 
RUlyngton.    See  Rilhiton. 
Rimside,    Rymsyde,     co.     Northumberland, 
341. 

,  forest  of,  341. 

•  Ringage  comne,'  74. 

Ringfield,  Rjrng^eld,  co.  Suffolk,  411. 

Ringslow,  Kyngeslow,  co.  Kent,  199. 

,  hundred  of,  403. 

Ringstead,  Ryngstede,  CO.  Noithampton,  ill, 

431. 
Ripon,  Rypon,  co.  York,  3,  29,  5*^6. 
..........  commission  of  the  peace  in,  134. 

Rippingale,     Repinghale,    Repynghale,     co. 

Lincoln,  103,  257,  352. 
Rippley,  William,  9. 
Ripplyngham,  Thomas,  512. 
Ripton,  Abbot* s,  co.  Huntingdon,  473. 

,  King's,  CO.  Huntingdon,  473. 

Risborough,  Rysburgh,  co.  Buckingham,  146. 

And  see  Princes  Risborough. 
RiBby,  Rysby  [co.  Suffolk],  319. 
Risebank  by  Calais,  378. 
Riselepp.    See  Ruislip. 
Riseholme,  Risum,  co.  Lincoln,  112. 
Rising,  Resyng,  Rysyng,  co.  Norfolk,  111, 

123,  124,  200,  458. 
Risum.    See  Riseholme. 
Risen.    See  Rexon. 
Roberd,  John,  381. 
Roberde,  William,  501. 
Roberdys,  John,  503. 
Robert,  Richard,  200. 

.Martin,  504. 

,  Thomas,  48. 

,  Hugh  son  of,  376. 

,  William  son  of,  342. 

Robert  son  of,  842. 

ap  Ever,  parson  of  Uanycil,  1 82. 

Robertsl^dge,  oo.  Sussex,  408. 

,  abbot  and  convent  of,  407,  408. 

Robis,  Thomas,  prior  of  St.  Denis  by  South- 
ampton, 214,  219. 
Robkyn,  John,  544. 
Roboletesdon,  co.  Cornwall,  108. 
Roborough,  CO.  Devon,  372. 
Robson,  Richard,  302. 
Robyn,  Robert,  319. 


GENERAL  INDEX. 


691 


Kobyn,  Walter,  parson  of  Nutfield,  504. 

Kobyns,  John,  814. 

WiUiam,  418. 

Rob^nBon,  John,  492. 

Bocester,  Bowcestre,  co.  Stafford,  abbey  of, 
523,  534,  550. 

,  Robert  Twjs,  abbot  of,  523,  534. 

,  John  Hambiiry,  abbot  of,  550. 

Bocbe,  David,  273. 

.,  Nicholas,  206. 

,  William,  archdeacon  of  Cloyne,  273. 

Rooh«  Andelys.    See  Andelya. 

Rochelle,  in  France,  234. 

Boches,    Peter  des,    bishop   of   Winchester 

[1206-1244],  250,  307. 
Bochesby,  376. 

Rochester,   Bouchestre,  eo.  Kent,   12,   121, 
132,  292. 

,  bishop    of.      See   Low  ;    Glanvill ; 

Sandford. 

,  charters  dated  at,  309,  398. 

liochford,  Bachford,  Boucheford,  co.  Essex, 
104,  486,  533. 

,  hundred  of,  45,  88,  157. 

Bock,  Book,  CO.  Salop,  542. 

Bockcliff;  Bonolife,  co.  Cumberland,  140, 534. 

Book  mil,  BokhiU,  co.  Salop,  510. 

Bockingham,  Bokyngham,  eo.  Northampton, 
18,  480,  481. 

,  forest  of,  48,  51,  196,219,299,480, 

48],  539. 

Bockland,  Bokeloaud,  co.  Norfolk,  173. 

Boclyff.    .See  Bouclyff. 

Boddesham,  John,  31. 

Bode,  John,  the  elder,  839. 

Bodeiiey.    See  Bodney. 

Boderham.    See  Botberham. 

Bodes,  Bobert,  304,  886. 

Bodmersham,  co.  Kent,  383. 

Bodney,  Radney,  Bodeney,  Thomas,  31. 

,  Walter,  280,  286. 

Boger,  Henry,  492. 

,  John,  175,987. 

,  Thomas,  81,  874. 

,  William  son  of,  500. 

the  priest,  875. 

Bogers,  John,  801. 

Thomas,  98, 389,  390,  575. 

,  WiUiam,  874. 

Bogger,  Alexander,  258,  411. 

,  John,  96,  173. 

Thomas,  37. 

Boggers,  John,  175. 

,  Thomas,  208. 

Bokell,  John,  265. 

Rokelound.    See  Bockland. 

Bokes,  Thomas,  188,  452,  560. 

,  ,  escheator  in  the  counties  of 

Bedford  and  Buckinccbam,  587. 
Bokeswell.    See  Boxwell. 
Bokevode,  Bokwode,  Bichard,  135. 


Rokewode,  Boger,  547. 

William,  33,67,  205. 

Rokisic,  CO.  Kent,  544. 

Rokley,  John,  296,  471. 

Rokyughum.     See  Rockingham. 

Rokysburgh.     See  Roxburgh. 

Rolf,  John,  the  elder,  442. 

,  the  younger,  442. 

RoUiaco,  Ralph  de,  377. 

RolstoD,  CO.  Devon,  265. 

Romans,  king  of.     See  Richard. 

Romara,  WiUiam  de,  earl  of  Lincoln,  242. 

Rome,  court  of,  55,  324,  516. 

,  legate  of,  59. 

M  preceptor  of  Hospitallers  of,  52. 

Rome,  John,  550. 

Romford,  Rumford,  co.  Essex,  194. 

Romney,  Romeney,  co.  Kent,  priory  of,  148. 

,  Old,  Olderomeney,  329. 

Romsey,  Rumsey,  co.  Southampton,  416. 

,  letters  patent  dated  at,  405. 

,  monastery  oF  St.  Mary,  187. 

..........  convent  of,  182,  240. 

,  Matilda  Lovell,  abbess  of,  182. 

,  Dame  Joan  Brygges,  abbess  of,  185, 

187,240. 

,  Isabel  Camoyp,  abbess  of,  240. 

Ronale.     See  Renhold. 

Roo,  Edmund,  100. 

,  John,  183. 

Rook.     See  Rock. 

Roos,  CO.  Suffolk,  443. 

,  CO.  York,  226,  230,  334,  455. 

Roos,  Clement,  374. 

,  Elizabevh,  wife  of  Thomas,  lord  Roos, 

83. 

,  Henry,  35. 

,  John,  577. 

lord  of,  106,  113,  141,  178, 

329,  361,  455. 

, ,  Marjory  or  Margaret  his  wife, 

106,  113,  141,  178,  329,  361,  422,  455. 

,  Richard,  286. 

Thomas,  29,  31,  35,  115,  116,  286, 

329,  330. 
, ,  of  Hamehik,  26,  39. 

,  Thomas,  ninth  lord  Roos,  282,  292, 

454,  455. 

, ,  Eleanor  his  wife,  455. 

,  Thomas,  tenth  lord  Roos,  29,  30,  39, 

76,  87,  104,  106,  109,  113,  141,  178, 
182,  191,  192,  195,216,  224,  226,  227, 
230,  285,  334,  344,  352,  854,  356,  861, 
867,  422,  435,  440,  443,  452,  454,  455, 
467.  469,  520,  521,  532. 

, ,  Philippa  his  wife,  87. 

Roose,  Rous  [co.  Pembroke],  114. 

,  CO.  Northumberland,  388. 

Roper,  John,  81. 

,  Robert,  411. 

,  Thomas,  476. 

Ros,  Geoffrey,  393. 

X  X  2 


692 


GENERAL  INDEX. 


R08C6II,  Master,  vice-chancellor  of  Ktcluurd  I., 

407. 
KoBC,  Thomas,  42S. 
Hose  Ash,  Kavesasshe,  co.  Devon,  294. 
Kcseneythso,  co.  Cornwall,  287. 
Rosfeire.     See  Newborough. 
Biksmodres,  Rosemrvlres,  William,  101,  561. 
Ross,  CO.  Hereford,  98,  2C5. 

Eton  by,  77. 

Ross.     See  Roos. 
Ross,  WiUiam,  303. 
Rosse,  earl  of.     See  lie. 
Rosf.     iS^ee  Ru8t. 
Rostormell.     See  Restormel. 
Rotby,  CO.  Leicester,  854. 
Rote,  John,  587. 

,  Richard,  503. 

leez  Rothane?,  in  Ireland,  117. 

Rothbury,      Rathebury,      Routhebury,      co. 

Northumberland,  44,  199,  341. 

Rotheley,  William,  253. 

Rotherham,   Roderham,    co.  York,   64,  139, 

140, 143,  162,  326,  523. 
Rotherhithe,  Retherhite,  co.  Surrey,  451. 
Rothewell.     See  Roth  well. 
Rothley,  co.  Leicester,  272. 
Rothnm,  Rothom,  William,  848,  450. 
Rothwell,  Rothewell,  co.  Lincoln,  112. 

,  CO.  Northampton,  6,  431. 

Rotbyngges.     See  Abbess  Roding. 

Rotonr,  Robert,  57.   ' 

Rottelaml,  co.  Sussex,  443. 

liouceby,  William,  501. 

Roucheford.     See  Rochford. 

Rouchestre.     See  Rochester. 

Rouclife.     See  Rockcliff. 

Rouclyff,  Roclyff,  Brian,  102,  20G,  530,  577. 

third  baron  of  the  Exchequer,  7. 

Roude.     See  Rowde. 
Rouen,  in  France,  451. 

,  diocese  of,  158. 

,  charters  dated  at,  62,  305,  392,403, 

405,  497. 

Rougecroix,   Rougecrois,   the   king's  pursui- 
vant, 202. 

Roughburgh.     See  Rowbarrow. 

Roughed,  Willium,  5. 

Roughforth.     See  Ru£ford. 

Riiughton,  CO.  Norfolk,  179,  355. 

Roughton,  William,  449. 

Rounton.     See  Runcton. 

Rous.     See  Roose. 

Rous,  Juliana  de,  72,  85. 

,  Reginald,  232,  301,  319,  411,  573. 

,  Robert,  59. 

,  William,  53,  336,  432,  516. 

Routh,  Brian,  258,  316. 

Routhe,  John,  206. 

Rowbarrow,  Roughbargh,  co.  Dorset,  hundred 
of,  131. 

Rowde,  Roude,  co.  Wilts,  32,  95,  430,  482. 


Rowe,  John,  36,  102.  132,  279,  801,  489,  566. 

,  William,  505. 

Rowley,  co.  Stafford,  481. 

Rowsham,  Rulsam,  co.  Buckingham,  473. 

Rowyngton,  Thomas,  259. 

Roxburgh,  Rokysbuigh,  in  Scotland,  164. 

Roxwell,  Rokeswell,  co.  Essex.  858. 

Royston,  co.  Cambridge,  131,  175,  313,  536. 

,  00.  Hertford,  176. 

Rabby  Hay,  Rnbehaie,  Bnbhaj,  00.  Devon, 

227,  372. 
Budbergh.    See  Redbridge. 
Rudby,  CO.  ^Tork,  506. 
Rudde,  John,  288. 

Thomas,  315. 

Rofford,  Roughforth,  Rughford  [co.  Nottin|r. 

ham],  abbot  and  convent  ol^  64,  139, 

143,  326,  523. 

,  abbot  of,  162. 

,  Thomas  de  Steynegreve,    abbot  of, 

139. 

,  Elias,  abbot  of,  140. 

Rufford,  Robert,  466. 

,  Walter,  25,  434,  456. 

Rugeley,  Robert,  820. 

Rugemont,    See  Grey. 

Rugemont,  Walter,  500. 

Rngge,  John,  escheator  in   the    countj    of 
Worcester,  67. 

Rughford.     See  Rufford. 

Rngley,   Roglee,  co.   Northumberland,    199, 

840. 
Roislip,  Riselepp,  Rayslepe,  co.   Middlesex, 

74,  142. 
Rul.^am.     See  Rowsham. 
Rumford.     See  Romford. 
Ramsey-     See  Romsey. 
Rumwode,  co.  Nottingham,  460. 
Runcton,  Rounton,  co.  Norfolk,  1 25. 
Rash,  Russhe,  co.  Dublin,  124,  321. 
Rushden,  co.  Northampton,  268. 

Rashmore,  Russhemore,  co.  Dorset,  hundred 
of,  131. 

Rushooke,    Thomas,  bishop    of    Chichester, 
[1386-1388],  251. 

Rushton,  Russheton,  co.  Northampton,  111, 

431. 
Rnskington,   Ryskyngtou,  00.  Lincoln,    179, 

355. 

Ruskyn,    Margaret,  abbess    of   Polesworth, 
524. 

Russhe.     See  Rush. 

Russhe,  John,  28. 

Russhebrook,  John,  411. 

RuBselhall,  cos.  Worcester  and  Staffoi*d,  87. 

RusseU,  Rossell,  Alice,  177,  854. 

,  John,  6,  61,  99,  186,  189,  203,  288. 

,  Richard,  288,  541. 

,  PetroniUa  his  wife,  541. 

,  Simon,  264. 

,  Thomas,  206. 

,  William,  211,  602. 


GENERAL  INDEX. 


G93 


Kust,  RoBt,  TfaomaA,  468. 

Koston,   Busston  in  Holdemesse,  co.   York, 
454. 

Bnthjn.    See  Grej. 

, 36,  111,  180,  191,  813. 

, ,  eseheator  in,  290,  880. 

And  see  Ingleton. 

Butlftnd,  countj  of,  outlawry  in,  800,  413. 

, ,  (ubsidy  and  nlrage  of  cloth  in, 

78. 

, ,  commissions  of  the  peace  in. 

,  earl  of.    See  Edmond. 

Botland,  Rathland,  forest  of,  541. 

,  forester  of,  103. 

Rutland,  Thomas,  28. 

Buyers,  Bartholomew,  465. 

Bujnon,  William,  553. 

Bujslepe.     See  Buislip. 

Buy  ton,  co.  Salop,  443. 

Buselay,  Laurence,  270. 

Bybelyng,  John,  487. 

Bycanl,  Henry,  316. 

Bycfaard,  John,  149. 

Byche,  Bichard,  1,  135. 

)  Bychebele,  John,  545. 

Byehere,  John,  5. 

Byddysdale.    See  Bedesdale. 

Bydel.  Geoflroy,  hishop  of  Ely   [1174-1189], 
342. 

Bye)  Bic,  co.  Hertford,  226. 

,  CO.  Sussex,  88, 89, 124, 274,  465,  525, 

548. 

,  mayor  and  barons  of,  274. 

Bye,  Hamelin  de,  377. 

,  Banulph,  134. 

,  Simon,  412, 

Kygby.     See  Bigby. 

Bygges,  John,  412. 

Byggmayden.     See  Btgmaden. 

Kyke,  Thomas,  100. 

Bykmerb worth.     See  Rickniansworth. 

Bylandes,  William,  520. 

Bylond,  William,  334,  467. 

Byrne,  co.  Dorset,  23,  362. 

Byng,  Herman,  489,  491. 

Byngiond,  John,  381. 

,  Agnes  his  wife,  ?S1. 

Rynglove,  Bichard,  552. 

Ryngstede.     See  Bingstead. 

ByngstOD,  Thomas,  111. 

Byngwell,  oo.  Somerset,  280. 

Bypon.     ^e  Bipon. 

Bypon,  John,  18,  49,  449,  522. 

Byppyndon.    See  Bepton. 

Bysborwe^  Bobert,  abbot  of  Missenden,  204. 

Bysborgh.    See  Bisborough. 

Byseby,  Edmund,  315. 

Byskyngton.     See  Buakingtoc. 

Bysshton,  Johu,  chaplain  of  Smndlake,  182 

> ,  par»on  of  Winchei^ea,  182. 


'    Kjsyng-     ^^^  Castle  BisiDg. 

Bytte,  John,  258, 

Byve,  John,  101. 

Byverc,  Bartilot  de,  1 19. 
And  see  Buvers. 
I    Byvers,  John,  418. 

Ryxman,  John,  417. 


s. 


Sadberugh.     See  Sedbergb. 
Sacote,  Bichard,  567. 
Sadeler,  Bobert,  463,  492. 
Sagefeld.    See  Sedgefield. 
Saggard,  Tassagard,  co.  Dublin,  84,  105,  178. 
Saham.     See  Soham. 

Saintguste,    Master   Thomas,  master  of  the 
King's  Hall,  Cambridge,  292. 

Saint  John,  Permanton  de,  203. 

Laurence.     See  St.  Laurence. 

I  Saintleger.     See  St  Leger. 

I    Saintquyntyn.     See  St.  Quintin. 

Sakevyle,  Sakfyle,  Thomas,  35,  389. 

Sake  ware,  Humphrey  le,  446. 

Saladyn,  John,  337. 

Salandyne,  Thomas,  209. 

Saleombe  by  Ilton,  Saltcomb  by  Yediltou,  ce. 
Devon,  254. 

Salcy,  Saucy,  co.  Northampton,  forest  of,  81, 
83,  261. 

Salden,  co.  Buckin^tiam,  121,  131,  169,  367. 

Sale,  John  de  la,  346,  463. 

Saleebury,  Boger,  24, 568. 

,  Thomas  the  younger,  421. 

Salet,  Master  John,  33. 

Salford,  co.  Oxford,  263. 

Salisbury,  CO.   Wilts,  54,  101,  234,801,419, 
475,501,524. 

.., ,  citizens  of,  161. 

,  charters  dated  at,  148,  161,  170,  190, 

239,  405,  498,  538. 

,  earl  of.    See  Neville ;  Montagu. 

,  diocese  of,  9,  17,64,75,812,339,357, 

379,  440. 

,  bishop  of.      See  Beauchamp;  £ig- 

hum  ;  Marti val  ;  Scammd  ;  Walt- 
ham  ;  Askewe ;  Bubbewith ;  Walter  : 
Wyville. 

,  Bichard  the  Poor,  bii^hop  of,  257. 

,  cathedral  of,  19, 95. 

, ,  prebends  in,  19,  322. 

f ,  dean  and  chapter  of,  161. 

, ,  dean  of.    See  Oxenford;  Gold- 

welL 

»guikl  of  St.  John  Baptist  of  tailon> 

at,  55. 

,8ub«idyand  ulnage  of  cloth  in,  lOo, 

115,128,448. 

and  Wiltii,  archdeaconr>'  of,  27,44. 

Salisbury,  Thomas,  257. 


694 


GENERAL  INDEX. 


Salkeld,  Hugh,  86. 

,  John,  346. 

....  ....   Richard,  66,  106,  132,435,  466,  501, 

562. 

, ,  sheriff  of  Cumberland,  562. 

,  Tboma8,  271. 

Salle  [oo.  Norfolk],  413. 

Salle,  Thomas,  537. 

Salman,  Robert,  385. 

Salmon,  John,   parson    of    St.    Saviour    or 
Bokard,  322. 

Salmon  Leap,  co.  Dublin,  59,  178,  183,  188, 
837,  374,  380. 

Salmondeabury,  co.  Gloucester,  hundred  of, 
144. 

Salop,  county  of,  31,   36,  40,44,47,77,91, 
98,  111,127,  133,284,391. 

,  sheriff  of,  98,  160,  481,  491, 

And  see  Eton;  Eynaston;  Legh. 

escheator  in,  334. 

Aitd  see  Kvnastoo. 

outlawries  in,  295,  505. 

,  justices  of  the  peace  in,  491. 

..........  commissions  of  the  peace  in,  570. 

Saltaah,  Ajssh,  co.  Cornwall,  204. 

,  burgesses  of,  399. 

Saltcombe.     .See  Salcombe. 

Salter,  Henry,  319. 

« ,  Johu,  204,  319,  412. 

,  Richard,  parson  of  South  Wootton, 

478. 

,  William,  319. 

Saltfleetby,   Salt    Fleteby,  co.  Lincoln,  169, 
215,  282,  472. 

Saltflethaven,  co.  Lincoln,  4. 

Saltmarshe,  Edward,  35,  451,  528,  576. 

,  Katharine,  4. 

..........  William,  4. 

SalFaign,  Francis,  302. 

Salvaigo,  Augustin,  503. 

Salvan,  John,  of  Bergh,  576. 

Salwaye,  Humphrey,  379,  459. 

Salysbury,  Ralph,  295. 

Sambroke,  John,  212. 

Sampford  Courtenay,  co.  Devon,  116,  317, 
323,  410. 

,  Spiney,  co.  Devon,  417. 

Sampson,  Henry,  provost  of  Oriel  Colleire, 
Oxford,  27. 

, ,  dean  ofthe  college  of  Westbury, 

CO.  Gloucester,  322,  444. 

,  Robert,  260. 

Samvill,  Philip,  201. 

SamweU,  John,  211. 

Sancto  Botulpho,  Alexander  son  of  Ralph  de, 

242. 
Sancto  Johanne,  William  de,  378. 
Sancto  Laudo,  Ralph  de,  242. 
Sancto  Mauro,  Nicholas  de,  408. 

Sancto  Paulo,  Mary  de,  countess  of  Pembroke, 

239. 
Sandale,  John  de,  bishop  of  Winchester  [1316- 

1819],  252. 


'Sandegelt,'  toll  called,  90,  473. 

Sandeland,  Thomas,  69,  444,  515. 

Sandes,  John,  18,  517. 

,  William,  202,  230,  .550. 

Saudewey,  John,  526. 

Sandford,  co.  Oxford,  347. 

Sandford,  Sonford  in  Sevemstoke,  co.  Wor- 
cester, 416. 

Sandford,  Henry  de,  bishop  of  Rochester 
[1227-86],  395. 

Sandon,  co.  Sarrey,  518. 

Sandwich,  co.  Kent,  24,  35,  68,  65,  125, 127, 
151,  2n&,203,  232,  S81,  347,  465,  487, 
513,  518. 

,  mayor  and  barons  of,  63,  465. 

,  mayor  and  Jurats  of,  35. 

,  mayor  of,  202,  203,   231,   232,  301, 

302. 

And  see  Cheldesworth  ;  Copledyk. 

,  port  of,  12,  19,  20,  63,  113,  129,  ISO, 

222,  283,  288,  343,  347,  353,  879,  386, 
387,465,514,518. 

,  ganger  of,  42. 

Sandwico,  Ralph  de,  373. 

Sanke,  Richard,  1. 

Sannyngtwhait.    See  Sinningthwaite. 

Sanyngboume,  John,  37. 

Sapcote,  Richard,   182,  431,   464,   560,  565, 
567. 

,  Isabel  his  wife,  464. 

Sapirton.    See  Sapperton. 

Si^iston,  Sapston,  co.  Suffolk,  412,  415,  547. 

Sapley,  co.  Huntingdon,  21. 

,  forest  of,  58. 

Sapperton,  Sapirton,  co.  Lincoln,  103,  352. 

Sapurton,  Roger,  512. 

Sarell,  Thomas,  4. 

Sark,  Serk,  people  of,  465. 

Sarrate,  Michael  de,  65. 

Sarres,  Martin  de,  65. 

Sarum,  Old,  co.  Wilts,  210. 

Sancheverell,  Ralph,  31,  554. 

Saucy.     See  Salcy. 

Saumur,  charter  dated  at.  400. 

Saundby,  co.  Nottmgham,  548,  544. 

Saundeby,  WiUiam,  544. 

,  Elizabeth  his  wife,  544. 

Saunderson,  William,  492. 
Saundre,  William,  518. 

,  Joan  his  wife,  518. 

Savage,  John,  420. 

, ,  the  elder,  201. 

Savage,  Robert,  120,  260. 

,  Florence  his  wife,  120,  260. 

,  William,  parson  of  St.  Pierre,  860. 

» ,  parson  of  Peuplingue,  176,  428. 

Savernake  forest  [co.  Wilts],  482. 

Savigny,  in  Normandy,  abbot  and  conTcnt  of, 
161. 

Savoy,  128. 

Sawley,  Sallcy,  co.  York,  abbey  of,  454. 


GENERAL  INDEX. 


695 


SawRton,  Sazton,  co.  Cambridge,  197,  287, 
525. 

Sawtre,  Saotre,  abbot  of,  46,  117. 

,  abbot  and  convent  of,  218. 

Sawyer,  Bichard,  490. 

Saxby,  co.  Lincoln,  155. 

Saxbam,  Thomas,  parson  of  Haddiscoe,  286. 

, ,  parson  of  Kirstead  and  Lang- 
hale,  286. 

Saxons,  East,  Sebby  king  of  the,  395. 

Saxtborpe,  co.  Norfolk,  320. 

Saxton.     See  Sawston. 

Saxton,  Robert,  280. 

Say,  Elisabeth,  lady,  20,  92,  459. 

,  John,  83,   180,   182,  806,  229,  288, 

284,  888,  389,  363-865,  868, 481,  476, 
528,  588,  565. 

Say,  Thomas,  57,  890,  559. 

William,  6,  288. 

, ,  dean  of  St.  Paul's  London,  2, 

326,370,413. 

,., ,  dean  of  the  king's  chapel,  11. 

, ,  warden  of  the  hospital  of  St. 

Anthony,  London,  11. 

Say.     See  Fenys. 
Sayer,  John,  535. 

,  WiUiam,  14,  18, 269,  447,  514. 

Saymer,  Thomas,  81. 
Sayntleger.     See  St.  Leger. 
Sayntlowe.    See  St.  Lo. 
Saynton,  John,  531. 
Says,  Henry,  254. 
Sayton.     See  Seaton. 
Sayve,  John,  28,  31. 
Sayvell,  Sayvile,  John,  66,  466,  577. 
Scalby,  SkaUebi,  [co.  York],  376,  377,  412. 
And  see  Scawby. 

Scalby,  George,  342. 

Scales,  Thomas,  lord,  45,  188,  257. 

And  see  Wydeville. 
Scanmiel,    Walter,    bishop     of     Salisbury, 

[1284-1286],  161. 
Scanseby,  Thomas,  315. 
Scap,  Martin,  2. 
Scarboroagh,  Scardebargh,  Escardeburgh,  co. 

York,  33,  71,  74,  82,  84,  99,  103,  198, 

213,  219,  253,  256,  348,  850,  415,  427, 

438,  455,  468. 

,  burgesses  of,  309. 

,  mayor  of,  350. 

,  hospital  of  St.  Nicholas  by,  534. 

', le  ChameU  in,  219,  222,  468. 

Scarburgh,  John,  3. 

,  Richard,  3. 

Scardeburgh,  John  de,  47. 
Scargill,  William,  102,  577. 
Scarthowe,  co.  I/mcoln,  224. 
Scanseby,  Thomas,  410. 
Scawby,  Scalby,  co.  Lincoln,  371. 
Scawton,  co.  York,  518. 
Scelton.     See  Skelton. 
Schucburgh,  Thomas,  2. 


Schpeston.    See  Shipston. 

SciUy,  Silly,  *  le  Mnrke  *  of,  86. 

Scluce.     See  Sluis. 

ScoU.    See  Skull. 

Scorbuigh.    See  Scarborough. 

Scorche,  Philip,  319. 

Scoteney,  Ralph,  138. 

Scotes,  Robert,  prior  of  Blythe,  469. 

Scotilthorpe.    See  Scotterthorpe. 

Scotland,  Scotch,  30, 31, 33,  34,36,  55,  66,  93, 

191,  281,  280,  292,  303,  340,  349,  440, 

459,  468,  518,  542. 

,  king  of.    See  Balliol. 

,  marches  of,  56,  82,  191,  328,  374. 

,    ,    warden    of.      See    Neville 

Percy. 
Scott,  Scot,  Scotte,  Uenry,  253. 
,  John,  11,   15,63,  79,102,  129,132, 

133.  177,  178,  229,  281,  301,  303,  346, 

370,  428,  429,  453,  465,493,  530,  544, 

566. 

,  John,  controller  of  the  household,  1 05, 

187,  215,  217,  221,  329,  343,  347,  375, 
423. 

, ,  parson  of  Buckingham,  483. 

,  Nicholas,  33. 

,  William,  208. 

Scotterthorpe,  Scotilthorpe,  co.  Lincoln,  417. 
Scottesmaner,  co.  Huntingdon,  94. 
Scotur,  John,  816. 
Scoulton,  Skulton,  co.  Norfolk,  471. 
Scratby,  Scroweteby,  Stroweteby,  co.  Norfolk, 

195,  484. 
Scrayingham,    Skrayngham,    co.   York,  50, 

588. 

Scraythcs.    See  Segraves. 

Scrobe,  letters  patent  dated  at,  568. 

Scrope,  Lescrop,  Henry,  lord,  261. 

,  Margaret  his  mother,  261. 

,  John,  280,  560. 

,  John,  lord  of  Bolton,  66,  132,  134, 

180,  205,  288,  233,  469,  588. 

.Richard,  511. 

,Richard,bishop  of  Carlisle  [1464-68], 

832,  833,  853,  561,  562. 
,  ,  warden  of  the  King's  Hall, 

Cambridge,  108. 
, ,  chancellor  of  the  University  of 

Cambridge,  188,  177,  561. 
Scroweteby.    See  Scratby. 
Scrutiny,  controller  of,  17,   19,  2C,  181,  514, 

515,  536,  545. 
,  surveyor  of,  20,  216,886.482.515, 

536,  545. 
Scudamoure.    See  Skydmore. 
Scull.    See  Skull. 
Sculthorpe,  co.  Norfolk,  271. 
Scurlage  Castle,  Scurlacastell,  co.  Glamorgan, 

426. 
Seagrave,  Segrave,  co.  Leicester,  212. 
Seal,  Seele,  co.  Kent,  1,  279. 
Seamer,  Semar,  co.  York,  39,  42,  198,  454. 


G9(5 


(IKNKliAL  INDEX. 


Staton,  St'ioD,  co.  York,  39,  87. 

,  SaytOD,  CO.  Uutland,  508. 

*« Deliival,  Ceton  Delavalc,  co.  North- 
umberland, 265. 

SeavingtoD,      Sevenhampton       Denys,      co. 
Somerset,  210. 

Sebby,  king  of  the  East  Saxons,  395. 

Sedbcrgh,  Sadberugb,  co.  York,  169. 

Sedgefield,  Sagefcld,  co.  Darbam,  294. 

Sedgraye,  Stephen  de,  267. 

Sedleflcombe,  Sedelescombe,  [co.  Soaaex],  255. 

Se^s,  alien  abbey  of,- 144,  145,  216. 

,  abbot  and  convent  of,  97. 

,  charters  dated  at,  401. 

Se&ey,  John,  415. 

Segden,  Master  John,  parson  of  Llanrhaiadr 
y n  Mochnant,  1 82. 

Segebote,  John,  350. 

Segeforth,  Robert,  parson  of  Grainsby,  181, 

Seggeham,  Thomas,  39. 

Segrave,  lord  of.     See  Mowbray. 

Segrave,  Nicholas,  445. 

,  Nicholas  de,  480. 

,  Stephen  de,  895. 

Segraves,  Scraythes,  co.  Cambridge,  77. 

Segthe.     See  Setchy. 

Seinbarbe,  John,  34. 

Seint  George.     See  St.  George. 

Seiutleger.     See  St.  Leger. 

Seint  Maare.     See  St.  Maur. 

Sclak,  William,  254. 

Seland.     See  Zeelacd. 

Seland,  Edmund,  390. 

Selander,  Edmund,  183. 

Selby,  CO.  York,  abbey  of,  291,  534,  538.  550. 

,  abbot  and  convent  of,  291,  498,  538. 

,  John,  abbot  of,  498,  .538. 

,  John  Sharrowe,  abbot  of,  534 . 

,  Dan  John  Ousthorp,  abbot  of,  550. 

Selby,  David,  505. 

Selender,  Richard,  420. 

SeUdey,  Selkelley,  co.  Wilts,  hundred  of,  462. 

Selly,  David,  the  elder,  204. 

Selling,  Sellyng,  co.  Kent,  133,  301. 

Sellyng,  John,  429,  493. 

,  William,   abbot  of  St.  Augustine's, 

Canterbury,  300. 

Selot,John,  319,  471. 
Selveston.     See  Silverston. 
Selwood  forest,  co.  Somerset,  443. 
Sely,  Richard,  35!<. 

,  Simon,  154. 

Seman,  John,  1 75. 

,  Richard,  420. 

Semar.     See  Seamer. 

Sempringham  order,  269,  309. 

,  Nicholas  Reysby,  master  of,  309. 

Sendale,  John,  canon  of  Ripon,  526. 

Senecles,  John,  448. 

Sent  l/uurence.    See  St.  Laurence. 


Sent  Leger.     See  St.  Leger. 

Senycle,  Senekyll,  John,  1,  142,  175,  443. 

Sequestration  of  religious  house,  199. 

Serjeants-at-arms,  appointments  of,  10,  17, 
18,21,  24-26,46,  48,  49,52,  55,  95, 
192-126.  198,  268,  297,  322,  344,  3<1, 
471. 

Serjeants-at-law,  appointments  of,  300,  387. 

Sergeauntson,  Thomas,  292. 

Serk.    See  Sark. 

Serle,  John,  14. 

Serman,  Richard,  317 

Sessay,  co.  York,  177. 

Setchy,  Segthe,  co.  Norfolk,  125. 

Setill.     See  Settle. 

Seton.    See  Seaton. 

Seton,  William,  5. 

Settle,  Setill,  co.  York,  186,  435,  455. 

Seacll,  Henry,  68. 

Seuthorp,  Sevthcrp,  co.  Lincoln,  113,  141. 

Sevenhampton,  co.  Wilts,  131. 

Sevenhampton  Denys.    See  Seavington. 

Sever,    Henry,  waraen  of    the    college    of 

Stratford  on-Avon,  235. 

,    ,     chancellor    of     St.    Paul's, 

London, 41. 

, ,  dean  of  Bridgnorth,  41. 

Severn  river,  86,  238. 
Sevemstoke,  co.  Worcester,  416. 
Seward,  William,  86. 
Seweley  [co.  Northampton],  219. 
Sewelle  [co.  Bedford],  04. 
Sewer,  John,  203. 
Sewester,  William,  506. 
Seymour,  John,  37,  38,  255,  286. 

,  Thomas,  134. 

Seymour,  lord  of.     See  Zouche. 

Seyntclere  Maner,  co.  Buckingham,  367. 

Seynterue.     See  St.  Erney. 

Seyntgeorge.    See  St  George. 

Seynt  John  de  Luce.    See  St.  Jean  de  Lnz. 

Seyntlaurence.    See  St.  Laurence. 

Seyntleger.    See  St.  Leger. 

Seyntlowe.     See  St.  Lo. 

Seynt  Nicholas.    See  St.  Nicholas. 

Seyntyes.    See  St.  Ives. 

Seyton,  Master  Roger  de,  384. 

Shaa.     See  Shawe. 

Shadwell,  Stephen,  52. 

Shaftesbury,  co.  Dorset,  36,  48,  445,  480. 

,  mayor  of.     See  Blanford. 

,  abbess  and  convent  of,  445,  480. 

Shaghen,  Henry,  232. 

Shakelok,  John,  492. 

Shakerley,  Peter,  419. 

Shalford  Clifford,  co.  Suirey,  91,  484. 

Shankton,  co.  Leicester,  195,  369. 

Shapwick,  Shapwyk,  co  Sussex,  88,  464,  548. 

Shardelows,  Sherdelowes,  co.  Cambridge,  145. 

Shambrook,  co.  Bedford,  506. 

Sharp,  Master  Henry,  89. 


GENERAL  INDEX. 


097 


Sharp,  Master  Henry,  prothonotary  of 
15,  Chancery,  130,  219. 

, prebendary    of  St.  Stephen's, 

WestmuiBter,  543. 

,   ,    prebendary    of    St.     Paars, 

London,  543. 

,  John,  54. 

,  Nicholas,  38, 180,  205,  487,  564. 

, ,  receiyer-general  of  the  duchy 

of  Lancaster,  439. 

,  Thomas,  12. 

, ,  engrosser  of  the  Exchequer  of 

Ireland,  178. 

Sharrowe,  John,  abbot  of  St.  German's,  Selby, 
584. 

Shawe,  Shaa,  Edmund,  113,  371. 

,  John,  489. 

,  Ralph,  parson  of  Harleton,  438. 

,  Bobert,  111. 

Shazton,  Nicholas,  605. 

Sheen,  Shene,  co.  Surrey,  11,  19,  53,  124, 
161,  183,  186,  216,  274,  275,  883,  513, 
525. 

,  West,  5. 

,  prior  and  convent  of,  160,  513. 

,  John  Ives,  prior  of,  160. 

,  charters  dated  at,  163, 558. 

Sbeepshead,     Shepeshede,    Shepishede,    go. 
Leicester,  108,  854. 

Shefeld,  Alexander,  48,  55,  262. 

,  Sbeffeld,  Robert,  35,  849,  419,468, 

528,  576. 

, ,the  elder,  451. 

» ,  the  younger,  101,205,451,567. 

Sheffield,  co.  York,  158,  413,  420. 

Shefierigge,  co.  Devon,  265. 

Shekerwike.    See  Shocker  wick. 

Sheldon,  co.  Waririek,  490. 

Sheldon,  Daniel,  88,  188. 

,  Henry,  295. 

Sheldwick,  Sheldewiche,  co.  Kent,  330. 

Shelfe,  William,  295. 

Shelford,  co.  Cambridge,  195. 

,  Great,  369. 

,  CO.  Nottingham,  195,  484. 

Shell.     See  Shields. 

Shelley  by  Hadlegfa,  co.  Su£folk,  175. 

Shelley,  Thomas,  882. 

Shelton,  Ralph,  205. 

,  Thomas,  2. 

Shelve,  Willitm,  210. 

Sbene.    See  Sheen. 

Shenbow.     See  Swinhoe. 

Shensfone,  co.  Staffonl,  320. 

Shenton,  Sheynton,  co.  Leicester,  172. 

Shenton,  Thomas,  446. 

Shepeshede.     See  Sbeepshead. 

Shephord,  John,  503. 

Shepishede.    See  Sbeepshead. 

Sheppey,  Isle  of,  co.  Kent,  56,  373,  489,  491. 

Shepreth,  Shept^eth,  co.  Cambridge,  175,  213. 

Shepton,  Shipton  Malet,  co.  Somerset,  23, 862. 


I    Sherborne,  Shirborne,  co.  Dornet,  501. 
I    Sherboiim,  Shirburne  [co.  Warwick],  80. 

Sherde,  John,  299. 

Sherdelowes.     See  Shardelows. 

Sheriffs,  appointment  of,  13,  823. 

Sheriff  Button,  co.  York,  letters  patent  dated 
at,  479. 

Sherlok,  John,  135,  301. 

,  Thomas,  135.  301. 

Sherman,  Richard,  185. 

,  Thomas,  551. 

Sherreve,  William,  279. 

Sherwood,  Shirwode,  co.  Nottingham,  forest 
of,  22,  140,  460. 

,  chapel  of  St.  Edwin  in,  57. 

Sheryff,  Master  Edmund,  257. 

Shestrygge  Yoo,  co.  Somerset,  280. 

Shete.     See  Shute. 

Shether,  Edmund,  4. 

John,  411. 

,  Idonia,  411. 

Shetteswell.     .See  Shotteswell. 

Sheviock,  Shevyoke,  co.  Cornwall,  220,  225, 
381. 

She}nton.    See  Shenton. 

Shields,  Shell,  310. 

Shiere,  Shire,Sire,  co.  Surrey ,75, 181, 465, 548. 

Shilbottle,    Shilboteil,   co.  Northumberland, 
114,148,341. 

Shillynford,  William,  563. 

Shillyngeld,  co.  Kent,  131,  465,  548. 

Shilston  by  Okehampton,  co.  Devon,  314. 

Shingham,  Shyngham,  co.  Norfolk,  184. 

Shingieford  Hall,  oo.  Essex,  546. 

Ships  called : — 

Adam  GoodaU  Ship,  281. 

le  Antony f  378. 

le  Barye,  206. 

le  Barge  Duras,  802. 

le  Barge  Warsle,  802. 

le  Blake  Karvell,  802. 

BwfshvU,  849. 

le  Clement,  208. 

Crakebote,  202. 

/e  Criatofer,  204. 

le  Cristqfer  Warrewyk,  204. 

le  Crigiofre  Damme,  99,  100. 

le  Cristo/er  Howell,  100. 

Cogship,  177. 

le  Edmond,  302. 

Gabriell  427. 

le  George,  204,  206,  309. 

Goundhale,  202. 

la  Grace  Dieu,  88,  99,  281. 

le  Grete  Marie,  302. 

le  Jamee,  100,  302. 

le  John,  802. 

le  John  Colya,  302. 

John  Colyns  bote,  89. 

la  Julian,  100. 

la  Kaiergn,  68,  100,  201,  802. 


698 


GENERAL  INDEX. 


Ships  called — cont. 

la  Kaieryn  Duras^  204,  349. 

le  Katerine  Warrewyk,  204. 

Mary,  177. 

la  Marie,  100,  211,  279,  301,  302,  379. 

le  Marie  Clyff,  204,  281,  302. 

le  Marie  Grace,  204,  302. 

la  Marie  Kent,  204. 

la  Marie  Talbot,  208,  802. 

la  Marie  Thomson,  203. 

Marie  Warwik,  204. 

la  Margarete,  36,  229,  302,  452. 

le  Martyn,  553. 

la  Maudeleyne,  804. 

le  Packer,  488. 

le  Peter,  302. 

le  Petir  Courtenay,  452. 

le  Pynke,  202. 

la  Santa  Maria,  492,  552,  554. 

le  Seynt  John,  65. 

le  Seynt  Ives,  527. 

U  Thomas,  802. 

le  Touke,  302. 

le  Trinite,  99,211,302. 

le  Trinite  Warrewyk,  204. 

Truge,  83. 

le  Valentyne,  553* 

le  XI  Shore  Nobill,  302. 

Shiplake,  co.  Oxford,  93. 

Shiplode,  Thomas,  258. 

Shiproan,  William,  518. 

Shipston,  SchpestOD,  co.  Worcester,  160. 

Shipton  Mallet.     See  Shepton  Mallet. 

Shipton,  Henry,  135. 

Ship  ward,  John,  mayor  of  Bristol,  304. 

Shirboru,  William,  143. 

Shirbome.    See  Sherborne. 

Shirburn,  Shirboume,  co.  York,  battle  of,  76, 
192,516. 

Shirbume.     See  Sherboum. 
Shirburne,  co.  Southampton,  alien  priory  of, 
116. 

Shirdyngton,  co.  Gloucester,  443. 

Shire.     See  Shiere. 

Shiref,  Thomas,  204. 

Shirley,  Hugh,  26,  71,  441. 

Shirley  Street,  co.  Warwick,  490. 

Shirlowe,  co.  Salop,  816. 

Shirwode.     See  Sherwood. 

Shirwode,  John,  107,  206,  285,  324,  490,  576. 

, ,  archdeacon  of  Hichmond,  479. 

,  Robert,  500. 

,  WilUam,  509. 

Shitlington,  co.  Bedford,  331 . 
Shokewick,  Shekerwike,   co.  Somerset,   225, 
226,  454. 

Shoesewdl.     See  Shoyswell. 
Shoklach,  Ralph,  463. 
Shoram,  John,  204. 
Shordiche,  Robert,  294. 


Shoreditch,  Shordyche  [co.  Middlesex],  212. 

Shoreham,  GISl,  co.  Sussex,  443. 

Shorhaiti,  charters  dated  at,  236,  246. 

Shorwell,  co.  Southampton,  504. 

Shosewell.    See  Shoyswell. 

Shotbolt,  Agnes,  479. 

Shoterskef,  co.  York,  506. 

Shottesbroke,  Robert,  889. 

Shotteswell,     John,     prior     of    St.    Mary's, 
CoYentry,  90. 

Shottyswell.    See  Shotwell. 

Shotwell,    Shottyswell,    co.    Warwick,    198, 
420. 

Showte,  John,  188. 

Shoyswell,  Shoesewell,  Shosewell,  co.  Sussex, 
hundred  of,  188. 

Shrawardine,  Shrewaidyn,  co.  Salop,  448. 

Shreve,  William,  279. 

Shrewsbury,  18,  57,  77,  90,  92,  105,  223,  254, 

267,  295,  315,  316,  3.'i2,  444,  481,  505, 

£15. 

,  burgesses  of,  239. 

)  guild  of  clothiers  in,  92. 

,  hospital  of  St.  John  Baptist,  210, 

492. 

,  dean  of  the  free  chapel  of  St.  Maiy. 

See  Cjeoy. 

,  Thomas,  abbot  of,  492. 

,  earl  of. '  See  Talbot. 

Shrobbe,co.  Northampton,  544. 

Shropshire.    See  Salop. 

Shrowenore,  in  Bere  forest,  co.  Southamptoo, 
56. 

Shukburgh,  Schukburgh,  John,  287,  288,  351, 
387. 

,  William,  503. 

Shute,  Shete,  co.  Devon,  470. 

,  CO.  Wilts,  forest  of.     See  Chute. 

Shute,  John,  55,  60. 

Shutford,  William,  552. 

Shyngwell,  Heniy,  418. 

Sibill,  Sybill,  Nicholas,  36, 133,  279,301,423, 
511,566. 

Sible  Hedingham,  Hengham  Sibill,  co.  Essex, 
193,  412. 

Sidborough,  Sydburgh,  John,  50,  127,  224. 

Sidford,  Sideford,  co.  Devon,  108. 

Sidoam.    See  Sydenham. 

Sidney,  Sydney,  William,  273,  280,  573. 

,  Elizabeth  his  wife,  273. 

,  Anne  his  daughter,  273. 

,  Elizabeth  his  daughter,  273. 

Sidwood,  CO.  Northumberland,  341. 

Sigillo,  Baldric  de,  167. 

Sikling,  John,  244. 

Silbury,  letters  patent  dated  at,  71,  99. 

Sileby,  Syleby,  co.  Leicester,  318. 

Silly.    SceScilly. 

Silver,  Sylver,  Henry,  198,  265. 

Silverston,  Silleston,   Selveston,    co.  North- 
ampton, 322. 

t  charters  dated  at,  59,  250. 


GENERAL  INDEX. 


699 


Simond,  Boland,  271. 

And  see  Symond. 

Sinningtfawaite,  SannyDgthwait,  co.  York, 
abbey  of»  454. 

Sire.    See  Shiere. 

Sizhill  [co.  Lincoln] ,  prior  and  conTent  of,  196. 

,  John  de  Henton,  prior  of,  196. 

.Richard  Wakefield,  prior    of,    196, 

887. 

Skalys,  Thomas,  98. 

,  Imayia  his  wife,  98. 

Skarmyng,  John,  802. 

Skegnes,  co.  Lincoln,  85,  871, 528. 

Skegnes,  Robert,  204. 

Skellingthorpe,  Skelynghonp,  co.  Lincoln, 
118,151,371. 

Skelton,  co.  Cumberland,  151. 

Skelton,  Scelton,  Edward,  17. 

,  John,  89,  52,  66,  138,  469,  536,  545. 

John,  the  elder,  109. 

, ,  the  younger,  109. 

,Thoma»,  816. 

Skendleby,  Skendelby,  Skendilby,  co.  Lin- 
coln, 184,  427,  468.   . 

8ker,  Hugh,  492. 

Skemyng,  John,  258. 

Skerraton^  Skeredon,  co.  Devon,  505. 

Skete,  Roger,  545. 

Skevyngton,  Hugh,  411. 

Skidbrook,  Skydbroke,  co.  Lincoln,  4. 

Skillyng,  Michael,  87,  88,  571. 

Skipton  in  Craven,  co.  York,  115,  342,  474. 

Skipwitb,  John,  28. 

,  William.   2,   25,   53,    101,  205,  229, 

567. 

, ,  sheriff  of  Lincoln,  472. 

Skirbeck,  Skyrkebek,  co.  Lincoln,  169,  270, 
471. 

Skolehouse,  Skoylhoose,  John,  272. 
Skortereth,  William,  4. 
Skowe,  John,  814. 
Skrayngham.    See  Scrayingham. 
Skreyngham.    See  Scrayingham. 
Skropp.    See  Scrope. 

Skull,  Scoll,  Scull,  Walter,  91,  98,  110,  215, 
888,  575. 

, ,  sheriff  of  Hereford,  380. 

, ,shertt  of  Oxford,  880" 

, ,  treasurer  of  the  household   of 

Henry  VI.,  380. 

,  Frances  his  wife,  388. 

Skultou.     See  Scoulton. 

Skut,  John,  510. 

Sk;  dbroke.    See  Skidbrook. 

Skydmore,  Skydemore,  John,  45,  77,  372. 

Skylman,  Robert,  506. 

Skynner,  John,  255,  317,  451,  573. 

,  Richard,  507. 

And  see  Urry. 
Skynnerton,  Henry,  569. 
Skypton.     See  Skipton. 


Skypton,  John,  283,  284. 

Skypwith.     See  Skipwith. 

Skyrkebek.    See  Skirbeck. 

Skyrwith,  John,  24. 

Slape  [co.  Kent],  264. 

Slapthom.     See  Slapton. 

Slapton,  Slapthorn,  co.  Northampton,  C. 

,  00.  Devon,  225,  2:36,  454. 

Slaugham,  oo.  Sussex,  191. 

Slaughter,    Slonghtre,    co.   Gloucester,    144, 
172. 

...,,  hundred  of,  144. 

Slawston,    Slaweston    [co.    Leicester],    176, 
5U. 

Sleddale,  co.  Westm'^reland,  169. 
Slederman,  Peter,  491. 

Sleford,    Willi m,    dean    of    St.    Stephen's 

Chapel,  Westminster,  163. 
Sloothby,  Slotheby,  co.  Lincoln,  144. 
Slotheby.     See  Sloothby. 
Sloughtre.     See  Slaughter. 
Sluis,  Scluce,  in  Flanders,  101. 
Sly,  John,  374. 

Siyfeld,  Thomas,  410,  451,  489, 545,  573. 
Slyfield,  CO.  Surrey,  428,  522. 

Slymbrigge,  Robert,  prebendary  of  Tamworth, 
270,  879. 

Smalecombe,  co.  Devon,  70,  420. 

Smalehall,  co.  Northumberland,  841. 

Smalwode,  William,  97. 

Smeetham  Hall,  Smethton  Hall  (in  Bulnier), 
CO.  Essex,  111,  200,  458. 

Smeeton,  Smeton,  co.  York,  169. 

Smert,  John,  Garter  King  of  Arms,  72. 

Smethefeld,  pasture  called,  22. 

Smethton  Hall.    See  Smeetham  Hall. 

Smithacot,  Smythecote,  co.  Devon,  227,  372. 

Smothing,  John,  261. 

Smynmaugh,  John,  parson  of  Walton,  468. 

Smyth,  Christopher,  492. 

,  David,  221. 

,  Humphrey,  parson  of  Rnvilie,  275, 

882. 

,  John,  1,18.  19,82,  184,257,326,857, 

368,  887,  414,  448,  490,  504,  533. 

,  Nicholas,  492,  501. 

f,  Richard,  89,  881. 

,  Robert,  291, 492,  550. 

Simon,  820. 

,  Thomas,  415,  418,  490,  492,  501. 

, ,  vicar  of  Withan*,  S56. 

,  William,  1,  20,  82,  141,  258,   298, 

491,  492,  501,  520. 

, ,  Edith  his  wife,  501. 

Smyth  at  the  Birge,  John,  374. 

atte  Hill,  John,  874. 

Snailwell,  Sueylewell,  co.  Cambridge,  374. 

Snai  well,  John,  141. 

Snape,  co.  York,  329. 

Snaythes,  co.  Cambridge,  521. 

Snell,  Robert,  176. 


700 


GENERAL  INDEX. 


Snellembergh,  Henry,  349. 
Suellyng,  Richard,  540. 
Sueterby.     See  Snittcrby. 
Snitterby,  Saeterby,  co.  Lincoln,  471. 
Snitterfield,  Snyterfeld  [co.  Warwick],  80. 
Snodsbury,  Snowdesbiiiy,  co.  Worcester,  87, 
112,221,297.829. 

Snodland,  Snodelond  [co.  Kent],  419. 

Snoryng,  Arnold,  296. 

Snowdon,  John,  105. 

Snyterfeld.     See  Snitterfield. 

Sobbnry,   Adam  de,  abbot  of  Glastonbury. 
160.  ^ 

»  John,  abbot  of  Cirencester,  884,  348. 

Soburton.  John,  prior  of  Sonthwick,  286. 

Soby,John,  418. 

Sodworthy,  265. 

Soham.  Sahum,  co.  Cambridge,  46,  374. 

Solicitor-general.    See  Fowler. 

Solihull,  CO.  Warwick,  288,  489,  490. 

Solway,  Solwath,  water  of,  56,  374. 

Somer,  Edmund,  172,  255,  510. 

,  John,  192,  429. 

Somercotes,  co.  Lincoln,  215,  282,  472. 

St.  Peter,  oo.  Lincoln,  4. 

Somercotes,  Robert,  rector  of  Partney,  173. 

Somerfeld,  Robert,  506. 

Somerford  Caynes,  co.  Wilts,  131. 

Mautrayers,  co.  Somerset,  443. 

Somers,  John,  287. 

Somersby.     See  Summersbury. 

Somerset  county,  32,  34,  44,  46,  57,  65,  75, 
92,  94,  96,  97,  99,  101,  HI,  124,  128, 
129,  184,  144,  149,  160,  178,  208,  208, 
211,  231,  262,  263,  280,  283,  284,  300, 
301,  303,  304,  322,  347,  373,  379,  883, 
391,  426,  452,  483,  484,  515,  529,  530, 
582. 

,  sheriff   of,   65,   99,   100,   134,   203, 

278,  290,  452,  480,  491,  530,  553. 

And  see  Stafford;    Herbert;  Syden- 
ham. 

,  escheator  in,  107,  334,  368,  477,  478. 

A  nd  see  Gille ;  Mauncell ;  Bamfeld. 

f  outlawries  in,  174,  &15,  414,  416. 420, 

505. 

ulnage  of  cloth  in,  22. 

,  mines  in,  194. 

,  commissions  of  the  peace  in,  571. 

Somerset,  duke  of.     See  Beaufort. 
Somerset,  John,  82. 
Somerton,  co.  Oxford,  467,  468. 

,  CO.  Lincoln,  226. 

Erlegh,  co.  Somerset,  225,  226,  454. 

Sonde,  William,  621,  655. 

Sonford.     See  Sandford. 

Soper,  Thomas,  122. 

Sorell,  John,  201. 

Sossynufdale,  Thomas,  814. 

Sotby,  CO.  Lincoln,  151,  371. 

Sotehill,  Sothehill,  Suthill,  Gerard,  218. 


SotehtU,  Henry,  102,  218,  228,  233,  270,  *277, 
2^1,423.486,538,577. 

» ,  attorney-general,  8,  475. 

Sotell,  John,  36. 

,  Henry,  36. 

Soterton.     See  Sutterton. 

Sothewell,  Richard,  66,  67. 

Sotheworth.  John,  mayor  of  Chester,  129. 

Souche,  Sampson,  418. 

Soulbury  [co.  Buckingham],  62. 

Soulby,  George,  315. 

Soules,  Thomas,  259,  547. 

Southam,  co.  Gloucester,  433. 

Southampton,  1,  2J,  45,  67,  89,  111,  277.  289, 

384,  416,  430,  480,  527,  580. 
mayor  of,  74,  206.  281. 

Af4d  see   Done;    Payne;    Fetyphioe ; 
Comemoager. 
....*....,  commission  of  the  peace  in,  572. 
,  outUiwry  in,  501. 

»  port  of,  12,  20,  26,  51,  59,  79,  89,  105, 

115,  117,  130,  150,  218,  222,  224,  231. 
265,  283,  288.  821,  824,  382,  343,  345, 
379,  886,  432,  444,  458,  514,  530. 

,  hospitol  of  St.  Julian,  or  House  of 

God,  116,308. 

» f  master  John  Pereson,  warden 

of,  116. 

>  priory  of  St.  Denis  by,  214,  219,  2W. 

> »  prior  and  convent  of,  405. 

» i  William  Norman,  prior  o^  220. 

* ,  Thomas  Robi8,prior  of,  214,219. 

' > »  Richard  de  Staunford,  prior  of, 

405. 

»  county  of,  8, 24, 26,  34,  37,  38,  45,  48, 

56,  67,  88,  90,  94,  106,  11 1,  118,  126, 
202,  208.  230,  263,  279,  304,  379,  390, 
391,  629,  680. 

»  sheriff  of,  27,  37,  208,  304,373, 

890,  435,  492,  527,  530,  552-564. 
And  see  Hampton.  ' 

»  escheator  in,   107,    187,  219, 

290,  363,  455,  477. 

» I  outlawries  in,  1-3,  410,  504. 

..  subsidy  and  ulnage  of  cloth  in, 


156. 


> »  commissions  of  the  neace  in, 

571.  *^ 

Southcote,  CO.  Buckingham,  869. 

Southcotes,  Sttthcotes,  Nicholas,  34,  92,  124, 
201,  206,  231,  284,  279,  450-452,  489, 
491,  492,  529,  558,  554. 

Southe,  Thomas,  101. 

Southfrith,  Snthfryte,  co.  Kent,  11,  131. 

South  Hall  (in  Paglesham),  co.  Essex,  104, 
486. 

Southikham.     See  Hykeham. 

Southkyme,  co.  Lincoln,  282. 

Southoe,  Suthoo,  co.  Huntingdon,  156. 

Sonthorpe,  co.  Lincoln,  361. 

South  Molton,  Suthamylton,  co.  Devon.  7  10. 
104,257. 

,  hundred  of,  10,  104. 


GENERAL  INDEX. 


701 


Sonthsex,  Thomafi,  3. 
Soiithtoundertemuth,  co.  Deyou,  307. 
Soiithwark,  Suthwerk,  co.  Surrey,  25",  21*6, 
321,  822,  385,  415,  451,  483,  531,  546. 

,  St.  Mary  Overey,  priory  and  convent 

of,  307,  338. 

, ,  prior  of,  254. 

, ,  Henry,  prior  of,  307. 

, ,  Henry  de  Colyngbourn,  prior 

of,  307. 

Southwell,  Suthwell,  St.  Mary's  church,  84. 

, ,  chapter  of,  84. 

, ,  canon  of.    See  DnfRbld. 

Southwell,  Suthwell,  Richard,  33, 45,  135,  301, 
471. 

, ,  escheator  in  the  county  of  Nor- 
folk, 67,  135. 

, ,  marehal  in  the  Exchequer,  115. 

Soutbwick,  Suthwyke,  cc.  Southampton,  priory 
of,  285,  290. 

,  prior  and  oonvent  uf,  495. 

,  prior  of,  522. 

,  John  Sobnrton,  prior  of,  285. 

,  Philip,  prior  of,  495. 

,  Philip  Stnnebrok,  prior  of,  285,  290. 

South  wold,  302. 

,  CO.  Suffolk,  128. 

Sooth  wyk.     See  Stafford. 

Sowches.     See  Zouches. 

Sowerhyshire,  339. 

Sowerby,  co.  York,  344. 

Sowtou  [co.  Devon],  491. 

Spain,  Spanish,  Spaniards,  41,  50,  61,  230, 
279,301,  304,464. 

,  ship  called  te  Marie  of,  301. 

,  .ship  called  la  Maudeleyne  of,  304. 

Spadard,  Spaddard,  Spedard,  John,  101,  452. 

, ,  mayor  of  Poole,  301. 

Spakman,  John,  446. 

Spalding,  Spa1dyug,co.  Lincoln,  57, 136,  145, 
J  73,  177,  242,  270,  320,  471. 

,  pricr  and  conyent  of,  242. 

,  prior  of,  136. 

,  Thomas,  prior  of,  242. 

,  John,  prior  of,  242. 

,  Robert  Holand,  prior  of,  243. 

Spaldyng.  Koberf,  48,  55,  65,  262,  802,  303, 
416. 

Spargrove,    SpertgroTC    [in   Hatcombe],  co. 
Somerset,  443. 

Sparliam  Hall  in  Necton,  co.  Norfolk,  18H. 

Spark,  Godfrey,  387. 

Sparowe,  Thomas,  parson  of  Castle  Rising,  40. 

Sparrc.     See  Bedford. 

Spayne,  John  dc,  301,  304. 

Speche  [co.  Kent],  264. 

Specot,  John,  232. 

SpeckingtoD,  Spekynton    [in  YeoviitODj,  co. 
Somerset,  4. 

Spectebury.     See  Spetisbury. 

Spcdard.     See  Spadard. 

Spede,  John,  474. 


Spekesworth.     See  Spixworth. 

Spekyngton.     See  Speck  iugton. 

Speldron,  co.  Middlesex,  hundred  of,  32. 

Speller,  John,  322. 

Spelsbary,  Spellisbury,  co.  Oxford,  263. 

Spence,  James,  492. 

,  Johu,  210. 

,  Thomas,  .'>75. 

,  William,  492. 

Spencer,  Robert,  316. 

,  Walter,  413. 

,  William,  7,304. 

,  Idonia  his  wife,  7. 

,  William,  mayor  of  Bristol,  529,  530, 

540. 

And  see  Spenser. 

Spendloye,  Thomas,  490. 

Spendour,  William,  384. 

Spenne,  William,  340. 

Spenser,  Christopher,  2. 

,  William,  64,  826. 

Spereman,  William,  65,  100. 

Sperman,  Richard,  174. 

Spemen  in  Budock,  co.  Cornwall,  526. 

Spert,  Simon,  194. 

Spei'tgrove.    See  Spargrove. 

Speryng,  John,  254,  256. 

Spetisbury,  Spectebury,  co.  Dorset,  125. 

Spevy,  John,  7 1 . 

Spice,  Clement,  449. 

Spicer,  co.  Devon,  227,  372. 

Splcer,  Spycer,  John,  230,  414,  416. 

,  Agnes  his  wife,  414. 

,  John,  the  elder,  507. 

,  Nicholas,  452. 

,  Richard,  230,  416. 

,  Thomas,  278. 

Spigumell,  Henry,  159. 

Spikemaill,  Dyrek,  322. 

,  Richard,  322. 

Spilman,  Henry,  141,  471,  568. 

,  John,  25.5. 

Spixworth,  Spekesworth,  co.  Norfolk,  258. 

Spofford,  Robert,  349. 

SpoffoHh.  Spofford,  CO.  York,  39,   108.   213. 
454. 

Spondon,  co.  Derby,  186. 

Spore,  William,  874. 

Sporle  [co.  Norfolk],  412. 

,  alien  priory  of,  73. 

Spragot,  Richard,  570. 

Sprencheaux,  Spryngeaux,  Fulk,  41,  491. 

Spridlington,  ►Sprydlyngton,  co.  Lincoln,  169. 

Sprigge,  Robert,  490. 

Sprbge,  Geoffrey,  448. 

Springfield,  Spryngfeld,  co.  Essex,  3. 

^  pringthorpe,  Spryngthorp,  1 7. 

Sprotbrough,  co.  York,  411. 

Sprowston,  Sprouston,  co.  Norfolk,  1 74. 

Spryng,  John,  204. 

,    Spryngeaux.     See  Sprencheaux. 


702 


GENERAL  INDEX. 


Sprynget,  Bichard,  510. 

Spryngold,  John,  506. 

Spryngthorp.     See  Springthorpe. 

Spylman,  Henry,  530. 

hpynell,  Pinellom,  Cataneus,  802,  303. 

Spyuner,  Charles,  31. 

St.  Albans,  co.  Hertford,  254,  479. 

battle  of,  76,  516. 

,  abbey  of,  310,  333,  337,  345,  430, 

444,  480. 

,  abbot  and  convent  of,  120,  333,  837, 

386,  430,  444,  480. 

,  Master  John  Whethamstede,  abbot  of, 

345,  386. 

William  Albon,  abbot  of,  845. 

,  John,  abbot  of,  120,  810. 

,  Robert,  abbot  of,  167. 

,  charter  dated  at,  167. 

,  St.    Mary  de  Pre  by,  abbe8.s  and 

convent  of,  58. 
St  Amand.    See  Beauchamp. 
St.  Andrews,  in  Scotland,  67,  221,  322. 
St.  Asaph,  diocese  of,  27,  182,  273, 858,  424. 

,  bishopric  of,  182,  358,  428,  467. 

,  Thomas,  bishop  of,  428,  467. 

,  dean  of.     See  Tapton. 

,  prebend  in  the  cathedral  of,  444. 

St.  Augnstiue,  order  of,  56,  177,  214,  216, 
219,  220,  234,  285,  312,  321,  834,  843, 
386,  406,  484,  520,  528,  550. 

St.  Benedict,  order  of,  187,  194, 196,  208, 224, 
228,  285,  289,  290,  380,  488, 478,  517, 
524. 

St.  Benedict  on  the  Leyre.     See  Fleury. 

St.  Benet'fl  abbey.     See  Hulme. 

St.  Bernard,  order  of,  150. 

St.  Bertin.     See  St.  Omer. 

St.  Botolph.     See  Boston. 

St.  Briavels,  St.  Brvawell«  co.  Gloucester,  18, 
24,  91,  1 17,169,  329,  432,  533. 

St.  Bridget,  rule  of,  405. 

St.  Bryawell.    See  St.  Briavels. 

St.  Burian,  co.  Cornwall,  dean  of.  See 
KnoUes. 

St.  Clear  [co.  Caermarthen] ,  114. 

,  priory  of,  148. 

St.  Colomb  Over,  Seintcolombe  Overe,  co. 
Cornwall,  488. 

St.  Cuthbert,  in  Scotland,  64. 

St.  Davids,  diocese  of,  50,  90. 

,  cathedral  of,  17. 

St.  Denis,  in  France,  abbot  and  convent  of, 
196. 

St.  Edmunds,  co.  Suffolk,  250,  410,  412. 

,  abbey  of,  480,  480. 

,  abbot  and  convent  of ,  178,250,  480, 

480. 

,  John  Boon,  abbot  of,  178. 

,  Anselm,  abbot  of,  250. 

Baldwin,  abbot  of,  2 50. 

,  charters  dated  at,  61,  400,  406,  495. 

St.  Edward,  place  of.     See  Netley. 


St.  Erney,  JM^ynteme.  co.  Cornwall,  108. 

St.  Florence  [co.  Pembroke],  114. 

St.  Foment,  in  Normandy,  prior  of,  15.5. 

,  Andrew,  prior  of,  155. 

St.    Geo^,    Seyntegeorgp,    Seint    George, 

William,  2,  64,  66,  68,  138,  281,  304, 

39o,  417,  549,  560. 

St.  Helen,  Isle  of  Wi^ht,  co.  Southampton, 
priory  of,  10«,  150. 

St  Ives,  Seyntyes,  co.  Cornwall,  68,  201. 

,  CO.  Huntingdon,  282,  408,  507. 

St.  Jean  de  Lux,  Seynt  John  de  Luce,  ship 

called  le  Setfnt  John  of,  65. 
St.  John  of  Jerusalem,  order  of,  52. 

,  James  de  Mylly,  master  of,  52. 

in  England,  hospital  of,  153. 

,  prior  of,  82,  240,  257,  507. 

Robert  Botell,  prior  of,  102, 115. 

:  53,  567. 

,  Robert  Hales,  prior  of,  153. 

in  Ireland.    See  Eilmainham. 

St.  John,  Isle  of  Thanet,  co.  Kent,  825.  328, 
382. 

St.  John's  Town.     See  Perth. 

St.  Eenelm,  Kelmestowe.  co.  Salop  (?  Worces- 
ter). 173. 

St.  Laurence,  Saint  Laurence,  Christopher, 

lord  of  Howth,  54,  198, 293. 

,  Emoreus,  284. 

,  Thomas,  198. 

:,  William,  admiral  of  Ireland,  209. 

St.  Leirer,  Saintleger,  Seyntleger,  Ralph,  122, 

550,  566. 

,  Thomas,  12,  77,  208,  210,218,220, 

384,  380,  485,  521,  523,  589,  551. 

f ,  controller  of  the  mint  49. 

St  Leonards,  co.  Sussex,  451. 

St  Lo,  Seyntlowe,  GiJes,  86, 1 1 1, 200, 452, 468. 

St  Marniret  Stretton.  See  Stratton  St. 
Margaret. 

St.  Margaret's,  co.  Kent,  159. 

St.  Mary  Cray,  co.  Kent,  521. 

St.  Mary  Ottery.    See  Ottery  St  Mary. 

St.  Mary  Overey.     See  Southwark. 

St.  Maur,  Seint  Maure,  Thomas,  365.  368 
571. 

St.  Mellion,  co.  Cornwall,  457. 

St  Miohael's  Mount  co.  Cornwall,  priory  of 
56,177.  ^      ' 

St  Neots,  CO.  Huntingdon,  816,  501. 

St.  Nichasius,  in  Picardy,551. 

St.  Nicholas,  Isle  of  Thanet,  co.  Kent  813 
526. 

St  Nicholas,  Seynt  Nicholas,  Thomaa,  102 
566. 

St.  Omer,  alien  abbey  of  St.  Bertin,  144. 

f ,  abbot  and  convent  of,  97. 

St.  Oswalds.    See  Nostell. 

St.  Paul's  Cray,  Pftvlynstray,  co.  Kent,  419. 

St.  Pierre,  in  the  marches  of  CaUis,  90, 860. 

St  Quintin,  Saintquyntyn,  William,  81,  576. 

St  Ruffina,  cardinal  bishop  of.    See  Kempe. 


GENERAL  INDEX. 


703 


St.  Saviour,  in  the  diocese  of  Terouaone,  322. 

St.  Ser^o   l^z   Angers,   St.  Sergius  and   St. 
Bacchus,  abbot  and  convent  of,  158. 

St.  Val^ry,  honour  of,  880. 

St.  Waldric,  honour  of,  42. 

Stacheaden.    See  Stagsden. 

Stacy,  Walter,  417. 

Staffield,  StaffuU,  co.  Cumbcrlaad,  140,  534. 

Stafford,  34,  267,  417. 

,  free  chapel  of  St.  Mary,  dean  of.  See 

Hawkyns;  Wore. 

,  county  of,  27,29,31,84,40,47,48, 

65.  117,  133,295. 

, sheriff  of,  85,  65,  100,  481. 

And  see  Wrottesley. 

, ,  escheatoc  in,  9,  85,  834,  524, 

534. 

,  ,  outlawries  in,   174,  254,  257, 

415,  505,  508. 

,  ,  commissions  of  the  peace  in, 

572. 

Stafford,  Fuik,  112,  217,221,223,262,297, 
298,  300,  329. 

Margaret  his  wife,  217»  221, 228,  262, 

297,  829. 

,  Henry,  12,  362,  567. 

,  Margaret  his  wife,  362. 

,  Henry,  second  duke  of  Buckingham, 

13,  43,  77,  91,  100,  298,  824,  463,  464. 

,  Humphrey  his  brother,  324,  463,  464. 

, ,  earl  of  Stafford,  first  duke  of 

Buckin^am,  6,  12,  13,  43,  77,  91, 100, 
179,  180,  205,  298,  310,  855,  362. 

,  Anne,  duchess  of  Buckingham,  his 

wife,  6,  24,  196, 298. 

,  Humphrey,  earl  of  Stafford,  his  son, 

18,  48,  lOU,  298. 

,  Humphrey,  34,  116,  124,  379,  491. 

, ,  steward  of  the  duchy  of  Com- 

waU,  25. 

, ,  sheriff  of  Somerset  and  Dorset, 

32. 

, ,  of  Hoke,  124. 

, ,  of  Southwick,  37,  98,  99,  101, 

120,  129,  132,  134,  201-204,  281,  282, 
323,  325,  358,  360,  438,  439,  488,  529, 
530,  582,  561,  563,  571,  575. 

, ,  warden  of  the  stannaries    of 

Devon,  439. 

,  ......,createdbaron  Stafford  of  Sonth- 

wick,  325. 

,  John,  124. 

,  of  Southwick,  132. 

, ,  son  of  the  first  duke  of  Buck- 
ingham, 12. 

,  John,  bishop  of    Bath    and    Wells 

[1425-1448],  310. 

,  Margaret,  wife  of  Humphrey  Stafford 

of  Frome,  450. 

,  William,  124. 

Staffull.     See  Staffield. 

Stagge,  John,  82. 

Stagno,  William  de,  260. 


Stagsden,  Stachesden,  co.  Bedford,  259. 

Staines,  Stanes,  Stanys,  co.  Middlesex,  12,  84, 

206,  355,  507. 
Stainfcon,  Steynton,  co.  Westmoreland,  169. 

,  Great,  co.  Cumberland,  505 . 

Staley.    See  Staveley. 

Stalon,  John,  535,  542. 

Stalworth,  Walter,  814. 

Stalworthy,  John,  420. 

Stambridge,  Stanbregge,  co.  Essex,  105,  1 75. 

,  Little,  105. 

Stamford,    Stanmford,  co.  Lincoln,  90,   131, 

155,  170,  276,  313,  351,  430,  481,  501, 

582. 
,  nuns  of,  296. 

,  charters  dated  at,  161,  407,  427,  499. 

,  letters  patent  dated  at,  386-338,  341, 

349,  359,  870,  387,  486,  567,  572. 

Stamlbrdham,  Standfordhiim,  co.  Northumber- 
land, 259,  547. 

Stampard,  Nicholas,  5. 

Stamper,  John,  445- 

Stanbourne,  Adam,  vicar  of  Heacham,  412. 

Stanbregge.    See  Stambridge. 

Stanbury,  John,  bishop  of  Hereford  [1453- 
1474],  564. 

Standewey,  John,  318. 

Standfordham.     See  Stamfordham. 

Standlake,  Stanlak  [co.  Oxford],  182. 

Standon,  Staundon,  co.  Hertford,  131. 

Standrop,  John,  84. 

Standyssh,  Gilbert,  502. 

Stanebrok,  Philipr  prior  of  Southwick,  28. "i, 

290. 
Stanes,  William,  3. 
Stanewige.    See  Stan  wick. 
Stanhape,  John,  552. 
Stanhope,  charter  dated  at,  84. 
Stanhope,  John,  102,  669. 
Stanhowe,  co.  Norfolk,  818. 
Stanion,  Stanyam,  co.  Northampton,  219. 

Stanley,  King's,  Kyngestanley,  co.  Gloucester^ 
448. 

Stanley,  Eleanor,  lady  of,  882. 

,  James,  467. 

,  John,  257,  418. 

,  Elisabeth  his  wife,  418. 

,  Thomas,  185. 

,  William,  7,  9,   115,   198,  342,   474, 

577. 

,  of  Hoton,  201. 

, ,  chamberlain  of  Chester,  336. 

Stannall,  John,  54. 

Stannary  Court,  461. 

Stanshawe,  Bobert,  491. 

Stanstead,  co.  Sussex,  443. 

Mountfitchet,    co.  Essex,  193,    197, 

339,  528. 

Stansted,  charter  dated  at,  235. 

Stanton,  co.  Suffolk,  412. 

Harry,  Stontonbarry,  co.  Buckingham, 

195,  369,  437. 


704 


GENERAL  INDEX. 


SUntOD  Uarcourt,  co.  Oxford,  300,  881,  385, 
478. 

Stanton,  Hervey  de,  159. 

Stanwell,  eo.  Middlesex,  371,  476. 

Stanwick,  Stanewige,  oo.  Northampton,  111, 
431. 

Stanyam.     See  Stanion. 

Staoys.     See  Staioes. 

Stapelbill,  John,  54,  2S7,  359. 

Stapilton,  Stapelton,  Brian,  101,  107,  54C. 

Hugh,  98,  570. 

,  Miles,  66.  67,  546,  568. 

,  Miles  de,  810. 

William,  107. 

Stapleford,  co.  Wilts,  444. 

Stapler,  Bieliard,  537. 

Stapleton,  Stapilton,  co.  York,  169. 

,  Stapulton  [ in  Martock] ,  co.  Somerset, 

135. 
Starbottom,  Strcbotell,  Sterboten,  co.  York, 

42,  116,  186,  435. 

Starky,  Robart,  256. 

Stathom,  Statham,  Nicholas,  102,  304,  562. 

,  Robert,  usher  in  the  King's  Bench, 

285. 

Statutes,  206,  223,  229,  266,  278,  291,  824, 
360,  871,  878,  880,  381,  390,  421,  442, 

448,  453,  459,  484,  489,  491,  521,  580, 
531,  536,  545,  550,  552. 

,  of  Provisory,  121,  187,  833. 

,  of  Premanire,  883. 

And  see  Acton  Burnetl ;  Cambridfre  ; 
Drogheda  ;  Leicester ;  Ix>llards ; 
Noi&amptou ;  Westminster ;  Win- 
chester. 

Staundon,  co.  Kent,  544. 

Staunford,  John,  417,  614. 

,  Richard  de,  prior  of  St.  Deny  a  by 

Southampton,  405. 

Staunton,  co.  Gloucester,  169,  .^33. 
Staunton,  Geoffrey,  543. 

,  Henry,  255. 

,  James,  84. 

,  Robert,  846,  4C3,  549,  566. 

,  Thomas,  176,  326. 

,  William,  abbot  of  Nutley,  651. 

Stayeley,  Staley,  co.  Derby,  185,  457. 
Staveley,  William,  24,  50,  Gi,   117,  143,  437, 

449,  464,  552. 
Staverton,  William,  44,  439. 
Stayndrop,  John,  468. 
Staynford,  William,  19. 
Staynhurst,  William,  121. 
Staynour,  William,  56. 

Stebbing,  Stebbyng,  co.  Essex,  180,  205. 
Stebbnhnth.    See  Stepney. 
Stedman,  Stedeman,  John,  64,  172. 
Steeple,  Stuple,  Stiple,  co.  Dorset,  131,  339. 

Bumpstead,  co.  Essex,  3,  197,255. 

Morden,  co.  Cambridge,  461. 

Btenelake,  Thomas,  31. 
,  William,  31. 


Stenynges.     See  Steyoing. 

Stephen,  king  of  England,  171. 

Stephen,  charters  of,  61,  139,  148,  166,  S40, 
242-244,  251.  307,  808,  875,  893,  895, 
396,  400,  402,  404-406,  496,  497. 

,  letters  patent  of,  876, 402,  496. 

Stephens,  Stephyns,  William,  184,198,  371. 

551. 
Stephynson,  Edward,  442. 
Steple  Claydon.     See  Claydon  Steeple. 
Stepleton,  Stepulton  [co.  Hereford],  114, 428. 
Stepney,  Stebbnhuth,  co.  Middlesex,  151,  424. 
Stepollangibrd.    See  Langford. 
Stepulton.    See  Stapleton. 
Sterbotell.     See  Starbottle. 
Stereland,  Thomas,  242. 
Sterling,  Sterlyng,  John,  507. 

, William,  213,  461. 

Sterne,  Henry,  188. 

,  Thomas,  89,  188. 

Sterssacre,  Robert,  parson  of  Hadley,  466. 

Steveday,  Williaa,  362. 

Stevensson,  Henry,  parson  of  Catfeld,  12. 

Stevens,  William,  escheator  in  the  county  of 
Warwick,  531. 

Steyenys,  Thomas,  254. 

Stevynton,  Stevyngton,  co.  Bedford,  7,  9, 
104. 

Steward,  Sty  ward,  David,  vicar  of  Minster, 
Isle  of  Thanet,  co.  Kent,  325,  382. 

,   ,  vicar  of  St.    John,    Isle    of 

Thanet,  co.  Kent,  825,  328,  832. 

Steward,  John,  526. 

Stewkley,  Snikeley,  oo.  Buckingham,  195, 369. 

Stcwton,  Stoveton,  Stuton,  co.  Lincoln,  179, 
227,  428,  455. 

Steynegreve,  Thomas  de,  abbot  of  Rufford, 

139. 
Steyner,  Richard,  154. 
Steyning,  Stenynges,  eo.  Sussex,  144. 
Stcynolf,  Robert,  523. 
Steynton  [co.  Pembroke],  119,  .533. 

And  see  Stainton. 

Stichell,  Robert,  bishop  of  Durham  [I260- 
74],  393. 

Stillington,  Robert,  255. 

,  ,  keeper  of  the  privy  seal,  115, 

149,  288,  808,  343,  387,  512. 

,   ,  dean  of  St.  Martin-Ie-Grand, 

London,  17,  512. 

, ,  bishop  of  Bath  and,Wells[  1466- 

1491]  and  chancellor,  192,  477,  1512, 
533,571,  572. 

,  archdeacon  of  Colchester  and 

Taunton,  prebendary  of  York,  St. 
Davids  and  Westminster,  and  parson 
of  Ashbury,  17. 

,    ,  prebendary  of   St.  Stephen's, 

Westminster,  822. 

, ,  prebendary  of  Chardstock,  322. 

,  Thomas,  496. 

Stiple.     See  Steeple. 

Stirkeland,  Richard,  200. 


\ 

I 


GENERAL  INDEX. 


70,5 


Stirkeland,  Ilicliard,  Beatrice  his  wife,  200. 

Stockerstoo,  8tokfa«toii,  co.  Leicester,  486. 

Stockleigh  Pomeroy,  Stokelcgh  Pomcray,  co. 
Devon,  192. 

Stockwith  [co.  Lincoln],  552. 

Stodard,  John,  master  of  the  fraternity  of 

tailors,  London,  463. 
Stodehawe,  Stodehaogh,  John,  1 30,  205. 
Stodeley.    See  Studley. 
Stodeley,  John,  281. 
iStodesdon,  co.  Salop,  212. 

Stogumber,      Stogomer,     Stokegomcr,      co. 
Somerset,  286,  866. 

Stok,  Thomas,  278. 

Stokdale,  Oliver,  5 U. 

Stokdall,  Geoffrey,  492. 

Stoke,  dean  of.     See  Wolsflete. 

»  CO.  Buckingham,  48. 

t  CO.  Surrey,  423,  522. 

Chew  Stoke,  co.  Somerset,  547. 

»*«wl«  Hampton,    co.    Somerset,   23. 

115,135,214,362. 

^7  Nayland,  co.  Suffolk,  264,  314. 

Albany,  Stoke  Dawebeney,  co.  North- 
ampton, 30,  104,  854. 

Bardolph,  co.  Nottingham,  195,  484. 

Clare,  oo.  Suffolk,  50. 

Stokecourcy,  Stokegursey,  co.  Somerset,  388, 
414. 

»  alien  priory  of,  73. 

Stoke  Dawebeney.     See  Stoke  Albany. 

Edith,  CO.  Hereford,  821. 

Fleming,  co.  Devon,  320. 

Goldington,  co.  Buckingham,  420. 

Michell,  CO.  Somerset,  226. 

Mulys,  CO.    Oxford,  883,   359,   360, 

363. 

Pcgi«,  CO.  Buckingham,  549. 

Stokeqny.    See  Stow  Quy. 
Stokelristre,  co.  Somerset,  443. 

Stokelegh  Pomeray.     See  Stockleigh  Pome- 
roy. 

Stokenhamme,  lord  of.     See  Montague. 
Stokes,  John,  8,  14,28,  96, 276,  .306,  316.32.3. 

363,  449,  508,  570. 
.Alice  his  wife,  276,  306. 

John,  escheator  in  the  counties  of 

Oxford  and  Berks,  381. 

,  Peter  de,  260. 

,  Robert,  554. 

Stokesby  [co.  Norfolk],  471. 
Stokfaston.     See  Stockerston. 
Stokhall,  CO.  Northumberland,  341. 
Stokton,  Henry,  573. 

,  John,  133,  176,  301,  825. 

.,  Joan,  176. 

,  WUliaro,  815,  502. 

,  mayor  of  York,  30. 

Stone,  CO.  Buckingham,  121,  367. 

,  CO.  Kent,  411. 

»  CO.  Somerset,  hundred  of,  7,  10,  104. 

«     86914. 


Stone,  Henry,  5. 

»^ton,  John,  31,  463,  501. 

» sheriff' of  London  and  Middle- 
sex, 433,  456. 

,  Roger,  31. 

,  William,  32. 

»  Stouys,  Thomas,  352. 

Stonar,  Stoner,  Thcmas,  889,  570. 

Stonedon,  co.  Hertford,  66. 

Stonehall,  co.  Suffolk,  286,  867. 

Stoneham.     See  Stonham. 

Stoneham,  William,  176. 

Stonehous,  co.  Devon,  536. 

»  CO.  Gloucester,  443. 

Stoneleigh,  Stonle,  co.  Warwick,  2. 

»  Stonleye,   co.   Warwick,  abbot  and 

convent  of,  532, 

,  William,  abbot  of,  582. 

Stoner.     See  Stonar. 

Stonesfield,  Stonefeld,  co.  Oxford,  25, 151, 359. 

Stonham,  Stoneham,  co.  Suffolk,  259. 

,  Little,  175. 

Stonham,  Robert,  550. 
Stonle.     See  Stoneleigh. 
Stonlond,  co.  Cornwall,  372. 

Stonour,  Stonore,  Stoner,  Thomas.  363  479 
588, 570.  '        • 

Stontonbarry.     See  Stanton  Barry. 

Stonys,  John,  8,  258. 

Stony  Stratford,  co.  Buckingham,  2,  76. 

letters  patent  dated  at,  572. 

Stopham,  co.  Sussex,  443. 

Stopyndon,  John,    keeper   of   the    rolls    of 
Chancery,  168. 

Store,  William,  218. 

Storer,  Thomas,  32. 

Storeton,  co.  Stafford,  879. 

Storheton.     See  Stom'ngton. 

Storigge,  co.  Devon,  372. 

Stork,  Storke,  John,  98,  423,  563. 

»  Agnes  his  wife,  423. 

Storrington,  Storheton,  co.  Sussex,  443. 
Storne,  Henry,  524. 

Thomas,  524. 

Stortford,  co.  Hertford,  338,  506,  51 1. 
Storthwaitc,  Storwhalt,  co.  York,  39,  87,  285, 

Storwhatt.     See  Storthwaite. 

Stotesbuiy,  William,  820. 

Stotfold,  Thomas,  15,  93. 

.Walter,  288. 

Stoughtou,  Little,  co.  Bedford,  175. 

Stougbton,  Thomas,  6. 

Stourgeon,  John.  III. 

Stour  Priaulx  [co.  Dorset],  priory  of,  74. 

Stour  Provost,  Stoiire  Prewe8,co.  Doiset,  415 

Stourton,  co.  Sufford,  481 . 

Stourton,  John,  150,  365. 

• »  of  Stourton,  34.  36,37,65,67. 

98,  99,   101.  132,  1,34,   154,  182,202 
208,281,563,571.575.  * 

T  Y 


706 


GENERAL  INDEX. 


Stoarton,  John,  lord  StourtoD,  25,  54,  88. 

,  Reginald,  37,  98, 202,  575. 

,  WiUiam,  37,  98,  101,  151,  202,  234, 

529,  568,  571,  575. 
Stootefeld,  Eliag,  417. 
gtow   Bardolph,  Stowebardolf,  co.  Norfolk, 

173,  179,  275,  3S5. 
Stowe  BedoD,  Stowebydon,  50. 
StowebydozL     See  Stowe  Bedon. 
StoweU,  Robert,  14,  SI,  99,   184,  231,  280, 

801,  346,  364,  365,  368,  571. 
Stowe  St.  Edward,  co.  Gloucester,  327. 
Stowlangtoft,  Stowelongtoft,  co.  Suffolk,  257. 
Stowmarket,  co.  Suffolk,  316. 
Stow  Quy,  Stokeqby,  co.  Cambridge,  195. 
Strace,  John,  411. 

,  Alice  his  wife,  411. 

Stradell  Vale,  co.  Hereford,  372. 

Stradlynge,  Edmund,  99. 

Strafforth,  John,  502. 

Straogboue,  Robert,  254,  538. 

Strange,  Richard,  36. 

Strangstj,  co.  York,  26. 

Strangwaj6,'Strangwa88he,  Slrangua78,jHme8, 

80,  66. 
, knight,  30,  66,  102,  233,267, 

270,  277,  279,  466,  511,  530,  588,  576, 

577. 

,  Richard,  30,  66,  466,  576. 

Stratfield  Mortymer,  co.  Berkii,  131. 
Stratfieldsaye,  Stratfeldsay  [co.  Berks],  alien 

priory  of,  73. 
Stratford,  co.  Suffolk,  316. 

on  Avon,  CO.  Warwick,  80, 

,  warden  and  chaplains  of  the  college 

of,  285. 

,  Henry  Sever,  warden  of,  235. 

atte  Bowe,  co.  Middlesex,  53. 

,  prioress  and  nuns  of,  308. 

Langthome,  co.    Essex,     221,  395, 

450. 

,  abbot  and  convent  of,  398. 

Stratford,  John,  15. 

,  John  de,  archbishop  of  Canterbury 

[1333-1848],  235. 
,  Robert    de,   bishop   of   Chichester, 

[1337-1362],  251. 

Stratton.    See  Stretton. 
Stratton,  CO.  Cornwall,  174,  372. 

,  nundred  of,  204. 

on  the  Fosse,  co.  Somerset,  23,  362, 

370. 
St.  Margaret,  St.  Margaret  Stretton, 

CO.  WUts,  435,  582. 
Stratton,  John,  prior  of  Monkton  Farleigh, 

460. 

,  Thomas,  415. 

, ,  clerk  of  the  works,  11,  69. 

Straunge,  Hamo,  258. 

,  Alice  his  wife,  258. 

,  John,  232. 

, ,  clerk  of  the  works,  11. 


Straunge,  John.,  ord  le,  200,  469,  507,  570, 

574. 

,  Richard,  204,  302. 

, ,lord  le,  200,  469. 

,  Elizabeth  his  wife,  200,  469. 

,  Robert,  279. 

Straangebetton.     See  Betton. 

Streatham,  Stretham,  co.  Surrey,  113,  226, 

428. 
Strebotell.    See  Starbottom. 
Strelley,  John,  304. 

,  Robert,  102,  190,  569. 

Strensham,  Streynesham,  co.  Worcester,  186, 

189. 

Stretche,  Nicholas,  202. 
Strete,  co.  Derby,  420. 
Strete,  John,  420. 

Robert,  509. 

Stretham,  co.  Cambridge,  820. 

Stretton,  376,  377. 

Stretton,  Stratton,  co.  Rutland,  80,  540. 

,  CO.  Salop,  443. 

Stretton,  John,  197. 
Streynesham.     See  Strensham. 

Strickland    Kettle,     Strikelond     KetuU,    co. 

Westmoreland,  169. 
Strickland,  co.  Westmoreland,  169. 
Strlklond,  Walter,  84. 
Stringer,  Thomas,  89. 
Strociis,  Louis  de,  381. 
Strode,  co.  Dorset,  413. 

Strode,  Nicholas,  abbot  of  Hyde  by    Win- 
chester, 298. 

,  William,  358. 

Stroode,  Strode,  Stroude,  co.  Kent.  131,  239. 

Strother,  Richard,  parson  of  Bisley,  423,  459. 

, ,  parson  of  Hinton,  423. 

Strotte,  William,  134. 

Stroude.    See  Strood. 

Stroweteby.    See  Scratby. 

Strubby,  Strubbe,  co.  Lincoln,  184. 

Strumpshaw,  Strompeshawe,  co.  Norfolk,  179, 
855,  475. 

Strykeland,  Richard,  22. 
Stubbes,  Nicholas,  206. 

,  Thomas,  256,  815. 

Stucle,  Stukle,  Stukeley,  Hugh,  257. 
Stucley.    See  Stukeley. 
Stucley,  John,  90,  560,  565. 

,  Richard,  356. 

Studley,  Stodeley,  co.  Oxford,  418. 

Stukeley,  Stucley,  co.  Huntingdon,  90. 

Stukeley.     See  Stewkley. 

Stukle,  Stucle,  Hugh,  381. 

Stuple.    See  Steeple. 

Sturdy,  William,  32. 

Sturgeon,  John,  4,  296,  818. 

,  Nicholas,  4. 

Sturminster  Marshall,  Stormynstre  Marchali, 
CO.  Dorset,  73,  1U8,  448. 

Sturmouth,  John,  174. 


GENERAL  INDEX. 


707 


Starmy,  John,  274. 

,  WiniAm,  16,  56. 

Sturmynstre  Marchall.  See  Stonninster 
Marshall. 

Slurry,  Sturrey,  co.  Kent,  101,  133. 

Sturton.    See  StourtoD. 

Storton,  StourtoD,  co.  Lincoln,  169. 

StutevUe,  Thomas,  134, 180,  205. 

Stuton.    See  StewtoD. 

Stychemerssh,  Stephen,  176. 

Stybyrst,  Richard,  336. 

Style,  John,  411. 

Sty  ward,  John,  1, 

And  see  Stewart. 

Subsidy  of  tonnage  and  poundage,  12,  55,  79, 
95,  188,  283,  294,  295,  828,  334,  343, 
353,  363,  386,  387,  423,  432,  440,  513. 
515. 

of  wools,  hides  and  wool-fells,l2,  13, 

54,  55,  68,  79,  107,  116,  143,  150,  185, 

188,  220,  222,  229,  294,  295,  324,  345, 
353,  363,  378,  386,  387,  422,  423,  426, 
432,  440,  442,  448,  513,  515. 

from  aliens,  276. 

and  ulnage  of  ctoth,22,  45,  47,  49,  63, 

78,105,115,  128,  130,  156,209,213, 
217,  218,  219,  230,  855,  358,  446,  448, 
461,462,472,541. 

Sudbury,  co.  Suffolk,  131. 

Sudbury,  John,  449. 

, ,  rector  of  Springfield,  3. 

,  Robert,  449. 

Sitdeley,  lord  of.     See  Botiller. 

,  Ralph  de,  25,  98,  152,  564. 

Suffolk,  county,  10,  17-19,  21,  24,  27,  33,  50, 
52,  71,  75,  88,  92,  95-97,  111,  117, 
119,  131,  138,  139,  142,  149,  180,  185, 

189,  193,  195,  201,  204,  214,  223,  232, 
279,  302,  847,  348,  379,  390,  391,  442, 
452,  472, 580. 

,  sheriff  of,  268,  302,  348,  452,  480, 

530. 

And  see  Danyell ;  Mongomery. 

>  escheator  in,  224,  338,  345,  353. 

,  admiral  of.     See  Radclyff. 

,  outlawries  in,  2,  4,  5,  173,  173,254- 

259,  314,  316,  319,  411-415,  418,  420, 

404,  507,  513. 

subsidy  and  ulnage  of  cloth  in,  45, 

219. 

,  justices  of  the  peace  in,  260. 

,  commissions  of  the  peace  in,  572. 

,  duke  of.     See  De  k  Pole. 

Sugar,  Hugh,  treasurer  of  Wells  cathedral, 
478. 

Snharra,  William  de,  68,  201. 

Solby,  iU>bot  and  convent  of,  155. 

Suiwath.     See  Solway. 

Sulyard,  John,  35,  232,  348,  452,  530,  573. 

Summersbury,  Somersbury,  co.  Surrey,  179. 

Sunday  Sight,  Sondaysyght,  co.  Northumber- 
land, 341. 

Sundridge,  Snndrisse,    Sundrissh,  co.   Kent, 
188,258,801,875. 


Sumlrisse,  Sundrissh.     See  Suodridge. 

Sunningwell,  SynyngwelJ,  co.  Berks,  369. 

Surfleet,  Sarfletc,  co.  Lincoln,  169,  242,  505. 

Surflet,  John  son  of  Godfrey  de,  242. 

Surrey,  10,  16,  18,  29,  38,  47,  85,  88,  95,  111, 
127,  201,  203,  207,  208,  231,  2S2,  273, 
278,  301,  304,  391,  448,  453,  489,  538. 

sheriff  of,  29,  37,  179,  211,  385,  472, 

483,  553,  573. 

And  see  Gaynesford. 
,  escheator  in,  36,  183,  290,  291,435. 

^mf«ee  Brigges;  Care  we  ;  Pt»stell. 
,  outlawries  in,  2,  5,  57,  254,  263,  324, 

410,415,  504,  .508,  537. 

,  commissions  of  the  peace  in,  573. 

,  bailiwick  of,  64,  1*23. 

,  subsidy  and  ulnage  of  cloth  in,  213, 

461,  462. 

,  archdeaconry  of,  28. 

,  earl  of.     See  Warenne. 

Surteys,  Thomas,  215. 

Sussex  county,  10,  16,  18,  29,  38,  47,  85,  97, 
111,  127,  133,  144,  203,  205,  207,  208, 
231,  232,  280.  301,  304,  347,  391,  408, 
423,  489,  493,  528,  538. 

,  sheriff  of,  29,  31,  37,  472,  553,  574. 

And  see  Gaynesford. 
,  escheator  in,  36,  290,  291,  345,  455. 

And  see  Carewe ;  Pestell. 

,  outlawries  in,  4,  411,  413,  419,520, 

555. 

,  subsidy  and  ulnage  of  cloth  in,  2 1 3 , 

461,462. 

,  commissions  of  the  peace  in,  574. 

Suthamylton.     See  South  Molton. 

Suthfryte.    See  South  Frith. 

Suthegrenehowe.     See  Greenhoc. 

Suthenley.     See  Henly. 

SuthiU.     See  Sotehill. 

Suthoo.     See  Southoe. 

Suthpederton.     See  Petherton. 

Suthtaupton.     See  Tawton. 

Suthwell.     See  Southwell. 

Suthwottou.     See  Wootton,  South. 

Suthwyk.     See  Southwick. 

Suthwyk,  John,  35. 

Sutterton,  Soterton,  co.  Lincoln,  270,  471. 

Sutton,  446. 

,  CO.  Bedford,  331. 

,  CO.  Devon,  83. 

,  CO.  Nottingham,  360. 

,  CO.  Northampton,  104, 354. 

,  CO.  York,  169,  454. 

on  Trent,  co.  Nottingham,  216,  435. 

.........  on  Derwent,  co.  York,  223. 

at  Hone,  co.  Kent,  52i. 

Courtney,  co.  Berks,  70,  118,    153, 

AS6. 

Lucy,  CO.  Devon,  333,  859,  364,  365. 

Priour,  co.  Devon,  16,  309. 

Raff,  CO.  Devon,  16,  309. 

Vautort,  CO.  Devon,  16,  309. 

Y  Y  2 


708 


GENERAL  INDEX. 


Sutton,  Elizabetb,  355. 

,  Hamo,  500,  667. 

,  John,  of  Duddeley,  98,  670, 572,  575. 

Richard,  6,  123,  202,  270,  303,361, 

569. 

,  Robert,  121,  487,  500. 

,  ThomaK,  master  of  the  fraternity  of 

tailors,  London,  463. 

,  William,  460. 

, ,  master  of  Burton  St.  Lazarasof 

Jerusalem  and  warden  of  St.  Giles 
without  London,  123,  136,  846,  462, 
566. 

Suyngham  (?  Ovingham),  co.  Northumber- 
land, 199. 

SwafiFham,  Swhapham,  co.   Cambridge,   196, 

197,  287,369. 

,  CO.  Norfolk,  170,211. 

,  Priour,  CO.  Cambridge,  2. 

Swallow,  Swalowe,  co.  Lincoln,  169. 
Swallowfield,  Swalewefeld,  co.  Berks,  169,  335, 

445,  481. 
Swan,  Swanne,  John,  351,  463,  485. 

,  Robert,  49. 

,  William,  566. 

Swanage,  Swanwych,  co.  Dorset,  318. 
Swanborne  [co.  Buckingham] ,  62. 
Swancomb,  Swannescombe,  co.  Kent,  88,  131, 

465,  548. 
Swancote,  Swanecote,  John,  63,  452,  515. 

Bwanewik.     See  Swanwick. 
Swanherd,  office  of,  193. 
Swaulond,  co.  York,  237. 
Swannescombe.     See  Swancomb. 
Swans,  15,  278,281. 

Swansea,  Swaynesey,  co.  Glamorgan,  119f 
296,  426. 

Swanton,  co.  Norfolk,  318. 
Swanton  Morley,  Morle  Swanton,  co.  Norfolk, 
255. 

Swanwick,  Swanewik  [co.  Southampton], 
136. 

Swavesey,  co.  Cambridge,  37,  1 58. 

,  priory  of,  87. 

Swaveshey,  549. 
Swayn,  Robert,  256. 
Swayne,  William,  475,  476. 
Swaynesey.     See  Swansea. 
Sweden,  286,  378. 
Sweder,  John,  446. 
Swerdbreke,  Tliomas,  418. 
Swere,  Thomas  atte,  the,  266. 
Swerenden,  William,  59,  336. 
Sweteman,  John,  194. 
Swetenham,  James,  ?  74. 

,  Elizabeth  his  wife,  174. 

S willy ngton,  John,  28. 

Swinesgarth,  377. 

Swineshead,  Swyneshed,    co.    Lincoln,    169, 

468. 
Swinford,  Old,  Oldswynford,  co.  Worcester, 

112,221,  297,  329,  330. 


Swinhoe,  Shenhow,  Swynhowe,  co.  Northura- 

berhind,  118,199,340. 
Swiuhope,  Swynehope,  co.  Lincoln,  169. 
Swire,  Swere,  co.  Dorset,  225,  226. 
Swynarton,  Humphrey,  101. 
Swynbom,  John,  348. 
Swynboume,  Henry,  149. 
Swynshed,  Geoffrey,  2. 

,  Henry,  2. 

,  Isabel  his  wife,  2. 

Sy,  Thomas,  195. 
Sybill.     See  Sibill. 
Sybson,  William,  507. 

,  Cecily  his  wife,  507. 

Sydhurgh.     See  Sidborough. 
Syde,  le,  co.  Northumberland,  341. 
Sydenham,  151. 
Sydenham,  Sidnam,  John,  444. 

,  the  elder.  99,  134,  203,  281, 

301,365,868,671. 
, , ,  sheriff  of  Somerset,  536. 

,  ,  the  younger,   134,  203,  231, 

301,346,  364,  365,  571. 
Sydney.     See  Sidney. 
Sylver.     See  Silver. 
Symon,  Robert,  174. 
Symoud,  John,  146,  202. 

Richard,  38,  281. 

Symondys,  Roland,  56. 
Bymoneston,  co.  Dublin,  54. 
Symsou,  John,  492. 

,  Richard,  20,  121,  536,  545. 

,  Robert,  459. 

Thomas,  174. 

Synyngwell.     See  Sunningwell. 

Syon    [co.  Middlesex],  abbey  of  St.  Saviour 

and  SS.  Mary  and  Bridget,  97,  144. 
,  {ibbess  and  convent  of,  56,97,   144, 

177,216,406. 
,  Elisabeth,  abbess  of,  66,  97,  144,  177, 

216. 
Syred,  Robert,  815. 

Syrescote,  co.  Stafford,  prebend  of,  270,  379. 
Syriche,  John,  107. 
Syser,  John,  2. 
Syward,  William,  410. 
Sywell,  CO.  Northampton,  153. 


T. 

Tackbear,  Tekebeare,  co.   Coniwall,  10,  104, 

372. 
Tackley,  Takley,  co.  Oxford,  263,  418. 
Tadoaster,  co.  York,  39,  198,  223,  454. 
Taddiport,  Tadypone,  co.  Devon,  265. 
Tadlow,  Thadlowe,  co.  Cambridge,  181. 
Tagge,  John,  508. 
..........  William,  rector  of  Norton  in  Hales, 

94,  459. 


GENERAL  INDEX. 


709 


Tailboys,  TaylbovK,  John,  101,205,  371,419. 
567. 

.Walter,  371. 

.William,  34,  86,  89,  112.  113,   115, 

144,  149,  151,  181,  199,  210,  224,  270. 
282,  292,  295.  849,  867,  419,  454,  457» 
461,  466,  486. 

,  Klixabcth  his  wife,  89,  144. 

.William,  of  South  Kvme,  871.  470, 

471,544. 

Taillour,  John,  185,  173. 

Nicholag,  471,  544. 

»  Richard,  5. 

,  Thomas,  411. 

William,  824. 

And  see  Tayllour. 

Takbere.     See  Tackbear. 

Taklejr.    See  Tadclej. 

Talazhaljn.    See  TuUyallen. 

Tklazdownhill,  co.  Louth,  74. 

Talbct,  Brian,  12,  86.  457,  491. 

>  Elizabeth,  countess  of  Shrewsbury. 

800,  316,  414,  420. 

»  John,  Tifloount  Lysle,  127. 

>  ••.....  second  earl  of  Shrewsbur}',  25 

30,  40-42,  91,   99,  152,  26S,  284,  800* 
889.  ' 


' third  earl,  91,  268,  339,  562, 

569,  570.  572. 

»  Margaret,  countess    of  Shrewsbury. 

127,284.  ^' 

,  Bichard,  238. 

Thomas,  viscount  Ljsle,  127. 

,  William,  414,  512. 

Talbotes  Landes,  co.  Northumberland,  199. 
Talgarth,  Talgard,  [co.  Brecon],  91. 
Tallagharn.     See  Laughame. 
Talmond,  Talamond,  in  Aquitaiue,  451. 
Talworth  Wratting,  co.  Suffolk,  445,  48!. 
Talyboys.     See  Tailboys. 
Tamar  riyer.  204. 
Tamworth,  445,  480,  518,  520. 

»  colle^ate    church    of,  prebend    of 

Coten  m,  387. 

; f  prebend  of  Syrescote  in,  270, 

» >  <l«an  and  chapter  of,  270,  379. 

••. dean  of.     See  Bate. 

Tanelesbjr,  876,  877. 
Tanleld,  Robert,  85,  295,  569. 

the  younger,  37. 

Tankard.  Edmund.  218.  325,  388. 

Tanner,  William,  510. 

Xanworth,  Tonworth.  co.  Warwick,  490. 

Ti4>lyt,  John,  504. 

Tapton,  Master  John,  dean  of  St.  Axaph,  47. 

Tarrant    Gunville,    Tarcnt    Goundevile,    co. 
Dorset,  131. 

Tarset,  Treswet,  co.  Xorthumberlaod,  341. 

^*^rkt  TrosKetpurke,  co.  Northumber- 
land, 341. 


Tassagard.     See  Sagpird. 

Taster,  Master  Peter,  dean  of   St.   Severin, 
Bordeaux,  80,  102,515. 

, rector  of  Chartham,  80. 

,  rector  of  St.  James,  Oarlick. 

Hithe,  London,  462. 

» ,  prebendary  of  Leighton  Buz- 
zard, 80. 

,  provost  of  St.  John's,  Beverley, 

515. 

Tate,  John,  275,  276,  352,  428. 

» ,  sheriff  of  London  and  Middle- 
sex, 438,  456. 

, the  elder,  487. 

,  Roger.  4. 

Tatenhiil,  co.  Stafford,  300. 
Tatirshale.    See  Tattershali. 
Tattershall,  Tatirshale,  co.  Lincoln,  174. 
Tauke,  Thomas,  516. 
Taunton,  co.  Somerset,  108,  173,  413. 

,  archdeacon  of.     .Sec  Stillingtou. 

Tavemer,  Nicholas,  575. 

Robert.  231,  509. 

.Thomas,  410. 

Ta ve$t\>k .    See  Tavist ock . 

Tavistock,    Tavestok,  Tavystok,  co.    Devon, 
abbot  and  convent  of,  222,  273,  536. 

...abbot  of,  37,  233. 

,  John  abbot  ef,  33,  222,  273,  563. 

»  John  Denyngton,  abbot  of,  536. 

Taweton,  Richard,  abbot  of  Hartland,  497. 
Tawke,  Tuwcke,  Thomas,  8,  31,  280. 

Tawton,  South,  Suthtaupton,  co.  Devon,  264, 
314. 

Tax  on  strangers,  219. 

Taylard,  Taillard,  Walter,  66,  560,  565. 

,  William,  561,  565. 

Taylboys.     See  Tailboys. 

Taylour,  Tayllour,  Adam,  173. 

.John  418.  436. 

.Matthew,  37. 

Richard,  87. 

,  WiDiaro,  172,  257,  314,  317. 

And  see  Taillour. 

Tealby,  Teleby,  co.  Lincoln,  227,  343.  345. 

Tebaude,  Andrew,  874. 

Tebbe,  John,  420,  458. 

Tcdyngworth,  Thomas,  468. 

Tecs  river,  348,  363,  549. 

Teign,  South,  Soutbteygne.  co.  Devon,  360. 

Tckebeare.     See  Tackbear. 

Telaijrharn.     Nee  Laughame. 

Teltbv.     Nee  Tealbv. 

Temroysford.     Nee  Tempsfonl. 

Temodisbury.     .See  Ten  bury. 

Tempest,  Itichard,  455. 

Nicholas,  455. 

Templehnrst,  co.  York,  469. 
Temple  Newsoroe,  co.  York,  469. 


710 


GENERAL  INDEX. 


Temporalities,  restitution  of,  9,  85,  107,  185, 

187,  192,  219,  220,  224,  228,  289,  290, 

332,  334,  338,  345,  353,  363,  380,  455, 

477,  478,  524,  634. 
Tempsford,  Temmysford,  80. 
Tempyll,  William,  114,  183. 
*  Tempylmylle,'  co.  Essex,  35. 
Temyo,  Richard,  34. 

Tenbury,  Temodisbury,  co.  Worcester,  474. 
Tenby,  Teneby  [co-  Pembroke],  114. 

,  burgesses  of,  306. 

Tendering.     See  Tendrin4c. 
Tenderyng,  William,  254. 
Tendring,  Tenderyng,  co.  Essex,  508. 

,  hundred  of,  124. 

Tenham.     Sre  Teynham. 

Tenterden,  Tentwarden,  co.  Kent,  274,  314, 

353,  451. 

,  hundred  of,  274. 

Tenterden,  John,  258. 

Teny,  Walter,  80. 

Tenyngton.     See  Thaunington. 

Tere,  John,  492. 

Terni,  bishop  of.     See  Copinis. 

Terouanne,  in  France,  diocese  of,  332,  551. 

Teryngton,  Robert,  52. 

,  Thomas,  52. 

Tetbury,  co.  Gloucester,  510. 
Teteney.     See  Tetney. 
Tetney,  Teteney,  co.  Lincoln,  41. 
Tetsworth,  co.  Oxford,  533. 
Tettenhall,  co.  Stafford,  378. 

, ,  dean  of.     See  Hethcote ;  Well . 

Teuleshed,  co.  Westmoreland,  169. 

Teutony,  322. 

Teverton.     See  Tiverton. 

Tewkesbury,  co.  Gloucester,  monastery  of  St. 

Mary,  93,  106,  296. 

,  abbot  and  convent  of,  93,  106,  296. 

,  abbot  of,  170,418. 

,  John,  abbot  of,  93,  106,  229. 

,  charter  dated  at,  387. 

Tey,  John,  33,  564. 

Teynerton  Drewe.     See  Drews teingfton. 

Tevnhani,  Tenham,  co.  Kent,  330,417,  465, 

548. 
Thadlowe.     See  Tadlow. 
Thakker,  Thomas,  505. 
Thame,  co.  Oxford,  363. 
Thames  river,  12,  15,  69,  70,  84,  97,  102,  144, 

191,  198,  202,  216,  223,  278,  287,  347, 

39/,  405,  451,  478. 

,  bailiff  of,  355. 

Thanet,  Isle  of,  co.  Kent,  325,  332,  403,  404, 

417,  526. 
Thannington,  Tenyngton,  co.  Kent,  88,  465, 

548. 
Thaxted,  Thaxsted,   co.   Essex,  4,    17,  181, 

180,205,412,  420. 
Thcddlethorpe,     Thedilthorp,     co,     Lincoln, 

199. 
Thekenesse,  James,  46,  70, 


Thermerton.    See  TormartoD. 
Therston,  12. 

Thester  Waver,  co.  Warwick,  542. 
Thetford,  253,  420. 

,  CO.  Norfolk,  ^56. 

,  prior  and  convent  of,  73. 

,  John,  prior  of,  503. 

Theydon  Garnon,  co.  Essex,  344,  356. 
Thcyne  Roland,  520. 
Thiriby,  co.  York,  89. 
Thirlkeld,  Lancelot,  280. 
Thimesto,  co.  Lincoln,  4. 
Thirsk,  John,  206,  541. 

^ ,  Agnes  his  wife,  541. 

,  Alice  bis  wife,  541. 

,  Ellen  his  wife,  541. 

And  see  Thriske. 

Thirston,  Thristerton,  co.    Northumberland, 

199,  340. 
Tbistildene,  Robert,  816. 
Thiwode,    Thywode,  in  South   Wales,    119, 

583. 
Thlnde,  Thomas,  34. 
Thoeney,  Roger  de,  394. 
Thomas,  duke  of  Gloucester,  son  of  Edward 

III.,  896. 

,  Nicholas,  261,  523. 

,  William,  204,  302. 

Thomas  son  of  Henry,  83. 

Thomaainns,  nephew  of  Francis  de  Copinis, 
59. 

Thommes,  William,  36. 
Thomon,  in  Ireland,  117. 
Thomson,  Cornell  us,  489,  491. 

,  John,  139. 

,  Lem,  230. 

,  Richard,  492. 

,  Robert,  492. 


-,  492. 


,  Simon,  212. 

,  Thomanson,  William,  210,  460,  511. 

There,  William,    parson    of    Famham,    co. 

Buckingham,  315. 
Thoresby,  North,  co.  Lincoln,  332. 
Thoresway,  co.  Lincoln,  227,  845. 

Bayons,  co.  Lincoln,  846. 

Nevile,  co.  Lincoln,  345. 

Beaumont,  co.  Lincoln,  179. 

Thorn  by  Ottery  St.  Mary,  co.  Devon,  430. 
Thornam,  Edmund,  350. 

,  Edward,  469. 

Thornay,  co.  Somerset,  108. 
Thornburgh,  John,  887. 

,  Leonard,  12,  135,  528,  566. 

,  Roland,  492. 

Thornbiim,  Over,  co.  Northumberland,  340, 
341. 

,  Nether,  340,  341. 

Thornbury,  co.  Devon,  382. 

,  John,  cscheator  in    the  county    of 

Middlesex,  219. 


GENERAL  INDEX. 


711 


Thornbmy,  Richard,  320. 

Thome,  letters  patent  dated  at,  396. 

,  CO.  Devon,  119. 

,  CO.  York,  848,  487. 

Thome,  Edmnnd,  28. 

Thomebargh,  Kdward,  292. 

,  Leonard,  85. 

Thomer,  Thoraonr,  co.  York,  815. 

Thomes,  co.  Westmoreland,  169. 

Thometon.    See  Thornton. 

Thomey,  abbey  of,  861,  880,  407. 

,  abbot  and  convent  of,  406,  407. 

,  Thomas  Wysbeche,  abbot  of,  361, 

390,  406. 

,  Robert,  abbot  of,  406. 

,  Walter,  abbot  of,  406,  407. 

Thorabam,  Simon,  471. 

, ,  warden  of  Holy  Trinity,  Cam- 
bridge, 1 18,  473. 

Thornton,  848. 

,  Thometon,  co.  Devon,   7,    10,   104, 

293,  519. 

,  CO.  Lincohi,  844,  845. 

„co.  York,  128,  169,  476. 

in  Lonesdale,  co.  York^  60. 

in  Craven,  co.  York,  118,  141,  361. 

Thornton,  Thorneton,  Giles,  4S. 

,  John,  46,  206,  284. 

,  Richard,  552. 

,  Roger,  48,  116,  288,  848,  349,  450. 

, ,  sheriff  of  Northumberland,  541. 

,  William,  rector  of  Enville,  518. 

Thoroffgode,  John,  234. 

Thorpe,  co.  Lincoln,  112,  151,  871. 

,  CO.  Northampton,  480,  441. 

,  the  men  of,  887. 

,  CO.  Surrey,  206,  507. 

by  Ixworth,  co.  SuJSblk,  412. 

Thorp,  Geoffrey,  318. 

,  John,  134,  208,  414,  423. 

Ralph,  208. 

Robert,  127. 

,  Rose  his  wife,  127. 

,  Roger,  292. 

,  Thomas,  184. 

,  William,  428. 

Thorplaogton.     See  Langton. 
Thorpe  Langton,  co.  Leicester,  413. 
Thorpe  Underlefe,  co.  York,  511. 
Thorpwaterfeld,  Thorpwatervyle,  co.   Derby, 

7,  9,  28,  104,  268,  533. 
Thoryngton.     See  Torrington. 
Thringnton,  Thringeston,  co.  I^icester,  187. 
Thriske,  Thryskc,  John,  30, 357. 
, ,  mavor  of  the  Staple  of  Calais, 

275,  276,  351. 

And  see  Thirsk. 

ThriKterton.     See  Thirston. 

Throgmerton,    Throkmorton,    Thomas,    178, 
379,  417,  489,  491,  508,  574,  575. 

Throlthrop,  Henry,  29. 


Throp.    See  Thorpe. 

Throuckeston.     See  Thraxtou. 

Throwley,  Treulegh,  IVevelegh,  co.  Kent,  97, 
106,  144,  178,  329,  880. 

Thrastanby,  co.  York,  198,  454. 

Thmxton,  Throuckeston,  co.  Hereford,  372, 

Thrylwall,  Robert,  818. 

Thryske.    See  Thriske. 

Thundersley,  co.  Essex,  868. 

Thundre,  Thomas,  129. 

Thurgeston,  co.  Leicester*  362. 

Thurgor,  William,  511. 

Thurgot,  William,  420. 

Thurkelby,  Robert,  4. 

Thurland,  co.  Lancaster,  445,  461. 

Thurland,  Margaret,  356. 

Thurleigh,  Thurley,  co.  Bedford,  417. 

Thurlewall,  Richard,  36. 

Thurlow,  Great,  co.  Suffolk,  218. 

Thurascoe,  Thimescogh,  co.  York,  376,  877. 

Thurrock,  co.  Essex,  507.' 

,  West,  prebend  of,  22. 

Thurs,  Stephen  de,  378. 

Thursby,  George,  492. 

Thurske,  Richard,  450. 

Thurthorp,  CO.  Lincoln,  199. 

Thnrvaston,  Thurbaston,  co.  Derby,  444. 

Thwaytes,  Henry,  26,  206. 

John,  80,  102,  577. 

,  Thomas,  442. 

,  WiUiam,  138. 

Thymolby,  Richard,  467. 

Thywode.    See  Thiwode. 

Tibenham,  Tybenham  [co.  Norfolk],  67,  88, 
185,  173. 

Tibberton,  Tyverton,  co.  Salop.  448. 

Tichmarsh,  Tychemerssb,  co.  Northampton, 
415. 

Ticknall,  Tyknale,  co.  Derby,  422. 

Tilbury,  Tileby,  Tylbary,  co.  Essex,  197,  287, 
507. 

,  West,  Westilbury,  296,  389. 

Tileby.     See  Tilbury. 

Tilleslow,  Toleslo  in  Viiitawe,  co.  Devon,  175. 

Tilney,  co.  Norfolk,  4,  253. 

TiUhead,  Tyleshide,  co.  Wills,  57,  145, 177. 

Tilton,  CO.  Leicester,  158,  486. 

Tintera  [co.  Monmouth] ,  Thomas,  abbot  of, 
229. 

Tiptoft,  John,  earl  of  Worcester,  21,  58,  66, 
68,87,88,  115,  118, 133,  188, 184, 193, 
204,  217,  238,  270,  279,  281-283,  289, 
300,  303,  304,  843,  346,  848,  884,  488, 
484,  450,  469, 478,  479,  488,  490,  539, 
530,  538,  560,  .563,  .565,  57!,  572, 
574,  575. 

,  treasurer  of  Enghind,  182,286, 

308,  356. 

, ,  chancellor  of  Ireland,  293. 

, ,  justice  of  North  Wales,  62,271, 

529. 
,  steward  of  the  household,  880. 

,  constable  of  England,  74,  880. 


712 


GENKliAL  INDEX. 


Tiptoft,  John,  constable  of  the  Tower  of  Lon- 
don, 61. 

Tirell.     Sec  Tyrrll. 

Tiringham,  Thomas,  470,  484. 

Tirley,  Trylley,  co.  Gloucester,  183. 

Tirlingham,  T}Tly ogham,  co.  Kent,  544. 

Tirlington,  co.  Leicester,  199. 

TiiTngham.     See  Tiringham. 

Tiuho,  CO.  Warwick,  6. 

Titchfleld,  Tychefeld,  oo.  Southampton,  504. 

,  abbot  and  convent  of,  136. 

Tiverton,  Teverton,  Tyverton,  co.  Dovon,  41, 
70,  116,  254,  317,  383,  359. 

,  hundred  of,  70,  116,  323,  359. 

Tobjr.  William,  67. 
Tobjn,  Robert,  466. 
Tockeoham,  Tokenham,  co.  Wilts,  13*. 
Tocotes,    Tokotes,   Roger,   32,  37,    98,    99, 
385,  575. 

,  Elizabeth  bis  wife,  385. 

Tode,  Thomas,  the  younger,  29. 
Todenham.     See  Tuddenham. 
Toft,  00.  Cambridge,  131. 

,  CO.  Lincoln,  169. 

Tofte,  John,  204. 

Toftes,eo.  Norfolk,  priory  of,  74,  125 

Toke  Robert,  229,  297. 

Tokenham.     See  Tockeuham. 

Tokerman,  Thomas,  505. 

Tokotes.    See  Tocotes. 

Tole,  John,  410. 

Toleslo.     See  Tilleslow. 

Toleslo,  William,  175. 

Toller,  Tolre  Poroorum,  co.  Dorset,  225,  22ti, 
454. 

ToUerton,  Torlaston,  co.  Nottingham,  41 1. 

Tollesbury,  co.  Essex,  35,  396 . 

Toilette,  William,  parson  of  Hadley,  466. 

Tolas,  William,  135. 

TomyoT,  Richard,  488. 

Tonbridge,  Tunbrigge,  co.  Keut,  279,   319, 

417. 
Tone,  Thomas,  31. 
Tong,  Roger,  62. 
Tonge,  CO.  Kent,  131. 
Tonsford,  co.  Kent,  88,  121.  465,  549. 
Tonworth.     See  Tan  worth. 

Tooting  Bee,  Totyngbeke,  co.  Surrey,  priory 
of,  113,  428. 

Topcliffe,  Topclyffe,  co.  York,   42,  85,  116, 
186,  189,  435. 

..,  letters  patent  dated  at,  567. 

Topolyff,  John,  34,  451. 

Toppes,  Robert,  the  elder,  323. 

Toppesham.     See  Topsham. 

Topsham,  Toppesham,  co.    Devon,   70,   122, 
477. 

Torbryan,  Torrybrian,  co.  Devon,  225,  227, 
831. 

Toregge.     See  Torridge. 

Torell,  Richard,  296. 


Torkington,  Thorkingtoii,  TorkvngtoD,  Henry 
191,  478,  560,  565. 

Torksey,  co.  Lincoln,  469. 

Torlaston.     See  Tollertfio. 

Torniartou,  Thermerton,  co.  Gloucester,  172. 

Torre,  co.  Devon,  abbot  and  canons  of,  556. 

,  abbot  of,  37. 

Torrebrian.    See  Torbryan. 

Torridge,  Toregge,  co.  Devon,  108. 

Torrington,  Thoryngton,  Tor>'ngton,Torryton, 

CO.  Devon,  7,  10,  104,' 265. 
,  Little,  212. 

,   Black,  Blaktorj'ngton,    co.    Dotod, 

389. 

,  East,  Bsteryngton,  co.  Lincoln,  87. 

Toryngton.     See  Torrington. 
Toser,  John,  320. 
Toteneys.     See  Totnes. 

Totnes,    Tottenesse,    Tottoneys,  co.  Devon, 
172. 

,  mayor  of,  37. 

And  see  Pralle. 

,  archdeaconry  of,  80. 

.,  prior  and  convent  of,  218. 

Totnowe.     See  Tottenhoe. 

Tottenesse.    See  Totnes. 

Tottenham,  Totenbam,    co.   Middlesex,  176, 
326,  352. 

TtUfenhoe,  Totnowe,   co.    Northampton,  48, 
539. 

,  CO.  Buckingham,  502. 

Tottoneys.     See  Totnes. 

Totyngbeke.     See  Tooting  Bee. 

Touke,  John,  365. 

Touken,  Richard,  172. 

Toure,  Leonard,  174. 

Toures,  John,  199,  492. 

Tournaments,  485. 

Tourney,  John.  451. 

Tours,  money  of,  140. 

,  charters  dated  at,  306,  375. 

Touthwaite.     See  Dowthwaite. 

Towenesend,  Roger,  568. 

To^er,  Thomas,  260. 

Towne,  John  of,  4. 

Townende,  John,  339. 

Towold,  Richard,  2. 

Towsyngton,  co.  Devon,  429. 

Towyn  Meronnygh,  [co.  Merioneth],  55. 

Toyntou,  Low,  Nethertynton,  co.  Lincoln,  468. 

Traas,  WiUiam,  6,  1 74. 

Tracy,  William,  86. 

Traharn  ap  Jevan  ap  Meryk,  76,  280,  355. 

Tranby,  co.  York,  237. 

Trane,  Laurence,  248. 

Travercff,  William,  320. 

Travers,  John,  269. 

Trayne  Clynton,  in  South  Wales,  114. 

Treahan,  George,  207. 

,  John,  207. 

Treake,  John,  206. 


*«« 


-^s^ 


GENERAL  INDEX. 


713 


Treasurer.     See  Kxcbequer. 
Treber,  John,  9. 
TrebiU,  Thoiim8,491. 
Trebon,  John,  188. 

,  Richard,  414. 

TrebreflT,  WUliam,  101. 
Tredewey,  Walter,  318. 

•  Margaret  his  wife,  318. 

Tredre,  co.  Cornwall,  488. 
Tredre,  William,  488. 

Trefty,  Thonuw,   34,   36,   43,  100,  204,  270, 
412,661. 

,  William,  452. 

Tregarlhen,  IVegarthyn,  Thoma«,  389,  544. 

Trega«owe,  Olirer,  206. 

»  Stephen,  207. 

Tregellest,  John,  101. 

Tregemeljn,  co.  Cornwall,  108. 

Tregett,  Tregeit,  co.  Hereford,  72,  85.   197, 
424. 

Tregodek,  Thomas,  174. 

Tregonyburgh,  co.  Cornwall,  488. 

Treguran,  John,  456. 

Trellek  [co.  Monmouth],  527. 

Trelowia,  co.  Cornwall,  225,  227,  331. 

Treluvcn,  co.  Cornwall,  488. 

Trelnyen,  Richard,  488. 

Tremaen,  Tremajn,  co.  Cardigan,  488. 

Trematon,   Tremynton,    co.    Cornwall,   126. 
532. 

Tremeryn,  Henry,  477. 

Tremodret,  co.  Cornwall,  197. 

Tremynton.    See  Trematon. 

Trenchard,  Henry,  27,  38,  56,  804,  504,  572. 

Trenowith,  John,  100. 

Trent  river,  460,  552. 

f  forettfl  south  of,  46,  77. 

•••> ,  forests  north  of,  61,  540. 

» ,  keeper  of.     See  Neville. 

Trenthgaas,  Thomas,  101. 
Trenynyek,  co.  Cornwall,  287. 
Trescote,  co.  Stafford,  510. 

Tresgam,  Hufh,  parson  of  Ronfeire  (New- 
borough),  428. 

,  Richard,  529. 

Treaham,  Thomas,  35,  36,  111,  134,  153,  225, 

226,  321,  869,  431,  437, 470,  569. 
Treskawe,  John  Wilh'am,  201. 
Treaaet.    See  Tarset. 
Trethenek  [co.  Cornwall],  513. 
Tretowcr,  Trevetour,  268. 
Treug,  William,  204. 
Treolegh.    See  Throwley. 
Trerasso,  co.  Cornwall,  1C8. 
Treveley.     See  Throwley. 
Trevelyn,  co.  Cornwall,  197. 
Tjoefvenoar,  William,  36. 
Trever,  John,  803. 

Treveri,  Peter,  keeper  of  the  rolls  of  Chanceiy 
in  Ireland,  26. 

Trevt^ken,  Trevyjkyn,  William,  265. 


Trevette,  John,  211. 

Trevilian,  Trevylyan,  Henrv,  masJer  of  the 

hospital  of  St,  Katharine  by  the  Tower, 

London,  42,  140. 

,  John,  28,  36,  278. 

Trevor,  John,  37. 
Trevuwith,  Otto,  204. 

,  Peter,  68,201. 

Trewanlryth.     See  Tywardreath. 
Trewe,  William,  417. 
Trewelove,  Robert,  302. 
Trewlegh.     See  Throwley. 
Trewolsta  [co.  Cornwall],  513. 
Trewyn,  Thomas,  384,  385. 

,  Kliiabeth  his  wife,  385. 

Trewynnard,  William,  101. 
Trewynyan,  co.  Cornwall,  197. 
Trigg,  CO.  Cornwall,  hundred  of,  204. 
Trill.     See  Broklond  Trille. 

Trim,  Trym,  co.  Meath,  40,  41,  185,  325,  340. 
388. 

,  *  le  Betaghrie '  of,  388. 

»  St.  Mary's,  abbot  and  convent  of,  41. 

» »  Christopher,  abbot  of,  41. 

Trimleston,  Trymletiston,  lord  of.   See  Heme- 
wall. 

Trinescho.     See  Thurnscoe. 

Trobell,  William.  174. 

Trokehome.    See  Crewkeme. 

Trolby,  John,  417. 

Tromy,  Robert,  19. 

Tronage  and  pesage,  11,  20,  211,  294,  343, 
514. 

Tropnell,  Tropeuell,  Thomas,  339,  365. 
Troston,  co.  Suffolk,  547. 
Troutbeck,  Troutebek,  co.  Westmoreland,  169. 
Troutbeck,  William,  209. 

, ,  knight,  209. 

Trowbridge,  Trobridge,  co.  Wilt*,  212. 

Trowse,  co.  Norfolk,  321. 

Trowte,  John,  206,  234. 

Troy,  Troe,  co.  Monmouth,  425. 

Troys,  John,  374. 

Trublevile,  Ralph  de,  395. 

Tmmpington,  co.  Cambridge,  369,  525. 

Trumpour,  William,  410. 

Trunke,  John,  313. 

Truro,  Trurubnrgh,  oo.  Cornwall,  507. 

Trussel,  Arnold,  553. 

Trussell,  Thomas,  35. 

,  William,  50,  390. 

TryUey.    See  Tirley. 
Trym.     See  Trim. 
Trym,  Geoffrey,  SO. 
Trymletiston.     See  Trimleston. 
Tryppe,  John,  504. 
Tryskawe,  Willi'un.  68. 
I    Tiyvet,  John,  211. 
Tnddenham,  Todeoham,  co.  Suffolk,  180. 
Tudenham,  Thomas,  28,  182,  142,  180,  184. 
186,  188,195,517. 


714 


GENERAL  INDEX. 


Tuderley.    See  Ty  therley. 

Tudgualut  the  clerk,  527. 

Tudor»  Edmund,  earl  of  Bichmond,  26,  89, 

71,  114,  130,  197,  212,  563,  363. 
,  Henry,  eitrl  of  Richmond,  71,  114, 

130. 

,  Margaret,  countess  of  Richmond,  362 . 

,  Jasper,  earl  of  Pembroke,  80,  86,  42, 

99,   103,  111,  114,153,286,364,860, 

366,  424,  425,  431,  486. 
Tudworth,  co.  York,  487. 
Tulfyn,  WilUam,  368. 
Tuggall,  Tughall,  co.  Northumberland,  117, 

199,  340. 

Hall,  00.  Northumberland,  117. 

Tukoys,  CO.  Cornwall,  488. 
TuUyallen,  Talazhalyn,  co.  Loath,  74. 
Tunstall,  Tunstefl,  co.  Lancaster,  445,  461. 
Tunstall,  John,  422. 

,  Richard,  26,  89,  333,419,422,  446, 

461. 

,  Elizabeth  his  wife,  833. 

,  Thomas,  881. 

Tunsted,  John,  102,  562. 
Tup,  John,  7. 
Tuplyn.    See  Tarplyn. 
Tuplyon,  Richard,  4. 
Turbervill,  Hugh  de,  62. 
Tnrbervyle,  Richard,  416. 
Turgys,  Joan,  520. 
Turk,  the,  370. 
Turnaston,  co.  Hereford,  872. 
Tumaunt,  Richard,  176,  325. 

„, ,  Joan  his  wife,  176,  325. 

Tumeham,  Robert  de,  steward  of  Anjou,  260. 

Turner,  William,  826. 

Turney,  William,  82,  206. 

Turneye,  Master  Thomas,  177. 

Tumham  Hall,  Tiimumhall,  co.  York,  89, 

113,  141,  361. 
Tumour,  Richard,  176. 

,  William,  82,  42. 

Tumpyk  de  Marque,  in  the  marches  of  Calais. 

90. 
TurnumhalL    See  Turnham  Hall. 
Turplyn,  Turpyn,  Tuplyn,  Robert,  rector  of 

Partney,  178. 
Turpyn,  John,  102. 
Turstm,  the  chaplain,  404. 
Tursy,  Amald  de,  208. 
Turoy,  co.  Dublin,  124,  321. 
Tuscany,  390. 
Tuschet,  Odo,  377. 

Tusculum,  Baldassarre,  bishop  of,  405. 
Tuson,  Thomas,  parson  of  Gisleham,  292, 
Tutbury  [co.  Stafford],  honour  of,  81. 
Tuxford  in  the  Clay,  co.  Nottingham,  58. 
Tuyer,  John,  205. 
Twaytes,  Thomas,  492. 
Twhikkebeare.    See  Twigbear. 
Twickenham,  Twykenham,  co.  Middlesex,  97, 
144,  351. 


Twigbear,    Twhikkebeare,    Twykebeare    [in 
Peters  Marland],  co.Devon,  119,  429. 

Twineham,  Twynem,  co.  Sussex,  520,  555. 

Twychener,  Stephen,  504. 

,  William,  504. 

Twyer,  John,  67,   135,  201,  203,  302,  390, 

568. 

,  John,  the  elder,  449. 

,  Philippa  his  wife,  449. 

,  John,  the  younger,  449. 

Twykenham.    See  Twickenham. 

Twynem.     See  Twineham. 

Twyneo,  John,  491. 

Twys,  Robert,  abbot  of  Rocester,  523,  534. 

Tybenham.     See  Tibenham. 

Tychaude,  John,  264. 

Tychef  eld.     See  IHchfield. 

Tychemerssh.    See  Tichmarsh. 

Tyd,  CO.  Kent,  464,  548. 

Tydd,  CO.  Cambridge,  498. 

Tydde  Gote,  co.  Lincoln,  36,  528. 

Tye,  Robert,  185. 

Tykell,  Ralph,  133. 

T>khill,  Ralph,  423. 

Tyhird,  Thomas,  135. 

Tylbury.    See  Tilbury. 

Tylby,  Joan,  504. 

Tyleshide.    See  Tilshead. 

Tylmyhgton,  Walter,  268. 

lyiney.     See  Tilney. 

Tylney,  John,  212. 

Tymperley,  John,  66,  67,  71,  135, 418. 

Tymyot,  Thomas,  176. 

Tyndale,  co.  Northumberland,  114,  199,  340, 

341,  525. 

Tyndale,  William,  503. 
Tyne  river,  310,  863,  549. 
Tynemouth,  co.  Northamberland,  310. 

,  prior  and  convent  of,  810. 

,  John,  prior  of.  310. 

Tyngelden,  Richard,  451. 
Tyntagel,  co.  Cornwall,  40. 
Terrell,  TireJl,  Hugh,  481. 

,  John,  481. 

,  Richard,  296. 

,  Thomas,  228, 273,  530,  564. 

,  Willinm,  228,  507. 

, ,  the  elder,  429,  493. 

Tyrrelleston,  in  Ireland,  117. 

Tysard,  John,  509. 

Tyse,  John,  509. 

Tystede,  William,  escheator  in  the  county  of 

Wilts,  546. 
Tytherley,  Tuderley,  co.  Southampton,  215, 

216,  299,430,  462,482. 

East,  220,  299. 

Tyverton.     See  Tibberton  ;  Tiverton. 
Tywardreaih,  Trewardrytb,  co.  Cornwall,  472, 
505. 

,  prior  and  convent  of,  475. 

,  Walter  Bamecote,  prior  of,  475. 


GENERAL  INDEX. 


715 


U. 

Uiiington,  Uifyngtoii,  co.  Lincoln,  87. 
Uggescombe,  co.  Dorset,  hnndred  of,  79. 
XJlceby,  TJlsebv,  co.  Lincoln,   59,  327,  544, 

345. 
Uldale,  CO.  Cumberland,  466. 
Ulfeton.    See  Ulsetoo. 
UIger,  Osbert  son  of,  842. 
UUeston  in  Hewkwell,  co.  Northumberland, 

259,  547. 
Ulaby,  Walter,  84. 
Ulgeby.    See  Ulceby. 
Ulseton,  tafeton,  Richard,  863-365,  368. 
Ulster,  earl  of.     See  Burgh ;  Richard. 
Umfray,  John,  85. 
Unda,  Martin  de,  804. 
Underhill,  Richard,  173. 
Underwode,  John,  552. 

,  Richard,  416. 

Unton,  Henry,  79. 
Upcherche,  John,  418. 

Upchurch,  Upchirch,  co.  Kent,  1 48,  465, 548. 
Upcott,  nppeeote,  co.  Devon,  265. 
Uphall  in  Braughing,  co.  Hertford,  856. 
Uphavyn,  co.  Wilts,  alien  priory  of,  95. 
Upmerdon.    See  Marden. 
Upton,  CO.  Devon,  227. 

,  CO.  Northampton,  131. 

,  CO.  Salop,  448. 

Upton,  John,  278. 

Robert,  356. 

Upwell,  CO.  Cambridge,  410. 
Upwymboume.     See  Wimborne  St  Giles. 
Urchenfeld  [co.  Hereford],  80,  99,  114, 197. 
Uriel,  in  Ireland,  county  of,  23,  343. 
Urieby.     See  Worlaby^ 
Urry,  Oliver,  3,  258. 
Ursinis.     See  Orsini. 

Urswyk,  Ursewyk,  Thomas,  141,  204,  228, 
279,  889,  488,  490,  521,  580,  558. 

, ,  recorder  of  London,  523. 

Usbnm,  Thomas,  warden  of  the  hospital  of 
St.  Nicholas,  York,  109. 

Usflete.    See  Ousefleet 

Usk,  CO.  Monmouth,  82,  425,  426,  526,  527. 

....,  men  of,  427. 

.,  forest  of.  527. 

Castle,  letters  patent  dated  at,  15. 

Ussher,  Thomas,  132,  808. 

,  William,  50. 

Ustewate,  Th.,  869. 

Utkinton,  Utkynton,  co.  Chester,  78. 

Utterhannowe,  co.  Cumberland,  445. 

Utworth.  William,  201. 

Uvedale,  Reginald,  802,  572. 

,  Thomas,  31,  88,  67,  202,  304,  444, 

492,552,  554,  571. 

,  Wimam,572. 


Uxbridge,  Woxbrygge,  co.  Middlesex,  5,  197, 
202,371,418,511. 

Uxton,  in  Scotland,  406. 


V. 

Vachery,  co.  Surrey,  75. 
Vaghan,  Vaughan,  Rees,  27. 

,  Roger,  192,  426. 

,  Thomas,  76,  88,  107,  222,  488,469, 

464,  469,  547,  549,  566,  573,  574. 
.., ,  keeper  of  the  great  wardrobe  of 

Henry  VI.,  360. 

,  Eleanor  his  wife,  88, 464,  548,  549. 

Valderi,  Robert  de,  167. 

Valencia,  Aymar  de,  earl  of  Pembroke  and 

lord  of    Weyseford    and  Montignac, 

306,  395. 

,  William  de,  earl  of  Pembroke,  306. 

,  Joan  de,  countess  of  Pembroke,  307. 

Valens  in  Great  Shelford,  co.  Cambridge,  369. 
Valet,  CO.  Dorset,  225,  326. 
Valle  Tort»,  Reginald  de,  399. 
Vampage,  John,  418. 

,  Elijsabeth  his  wife,- 418. 

Van  Aa,  John,  489, 491. 
Van  Glambeke,  Giles,  483. 
Vatacy,  Peter,  301. 
Vaudey,  abbot  of,  500. 
Vaudreuil,  charter  dated  at,  264. 
Vaughan,  Thomas  ap  Rosser,  48. 

And  896  Vaghan. 
Vans,  Robert,  414. 
Vaux,  CO.  Essex,  76,  197. 
Vaux,  Roland,  66, 182, 253. 
William,  35,  153,  195,  220,  369,  434, 

456,  486,  551. 
Vavasour,  Vavesoure,  John,  35, 102, 414, 451, 

528,  576. 
Vawre.  WilUam,  490. 
Veele,  Geoffrey,  288,  234. 
Veer.     See  Vere. 
Veeme,  John,  205. 
Venice,  Venetians,  12,  60,  231,  276,  301,  847, 

390,  542. 
Venour,  William,  78,  88,  512. 

Elizabeth  his  wife,  512. 

Venoure,  Robert,  500. 
Venton,  Fenton,  co.  Devon,  265. 
Vera  Worthy.    See  Virworthy. 
De  Vere,  de  Veer,  Aubrey,  76,  250. 

,  Anna  his  wife,  76. 

,  George,  parson  of  Laneham,  198. 

,  Hugh,  430,  480. 

,  John,  twelfth  earl  of  Oxford,   139, 

142,  179,  184,  187-189,  193,  197,  229, 

287,  293,  298,  560, 564,  568,  578. 


716 


GENERAL  INDEX. 


IK>  Vere,  John,  tliirtt^>uth  carl  287,  S98,  560, 
564,  568,  573. 

,  Robert,  62,  375,  376,  402. 

, earl  of  Oxford,  158. 

.Walter,  496. 

La  Ven'e,  in  South  Wales,  1 14. 
Vemay,  Philip  de,  59. 
Vcmeail,  charter  dated  at,  497. 
Vomeworthy,  Geoffrey,  417, 
Verney,  Edmund,  208. 

,  Richaid.  208,  420,  489. 

,  Robert.  511. 

,  Ralph,  141,  521,  530,  553. 

, ,  mayor  of  London,  490. 

,  William,  511. 

Vernon,  Henry,  804. 

John,  135. 

,  Richard,  treasorer  of  CahiiH,  25. 

,  Roger,  81. 

William,  81,  304. 

Vescy,  John  de,  139.  « 

,  WiUiamde,  139. 

Vewy,  lord.    See  Brouuflet. 

Vessy,  John,  479. 

Vestenden,  Ralph,  127. 

Vetton,  Roger,  parson  of  West  Tilbury,  896. 

Vexford,  Wexford,  co.  Somerset,  886,  366. 

Veyse,  John,  490. 

Veysy,  William,  502. 

Vexelay,  charten  dated  at,  240,  251. 

Vicari,  William,  315. 

Viner,  Peter,  180. 

Violet,  John,  552. 

Virginstow,  Virstawe,  co.  Devon,  175. 

Virstawe.     See  Virginstow. 

Yirworthy,  Vera  Worthy,  co.  Devon,  265. 

la  Vise.    See  Devises. 

Vise».     See  Devizes. 

Voel,  Gruffud,  424. 

Vowchurch,  Vouchirche,  co.  Hereford,  372, 

Voyche,  Thomas,  194,  266. 

Voyse,  Thomas,  804. 

Vrgi,  Matthew,  parson   of   Llanrhaiadr  yn 

Mochnant,  424. 
ViUre,  Master  Gervase  le,  79,  219. 
Vyell,  Richard,  265. 
Vyke,  John,  540. 
Vynoent,  Richard,  507. 

,  Thomas,  410. 

Vynter,  Elizabeth,  839,  528. 

,  Luke,  528. 

,  Thomas,  457. 

Vysc.     See  Devizes. 


Wabrigge.     See  Weybridge. 
Wachennesfeld.     .See  Watchfieid. 


Wackefeld  [co.  Northampton],  58. 

Wadbury     See  Woodbury. 

Wtfddesdon,  Wodesdon,  Wottesdoo,  co.  Huck> 
ingham,  70,  105.  118,  477. 

Waddtfsley,  Robert  de,  140. 

Waddington,  co.  Lincoln,  499. 

Wade,  Isabel,  prioress  of  Lilleehurch,  189. 

,  John,  320,  490. 

,  Robert,  5. 

,  WUliam,  288.  379,  540. 

Wadham,  John,  231. 

Wadle,  Wadeley,  co.  Berks,  27. 

Wadyn,  Richard,  99. 

,  William,  99. 

Wadyswyk,  Ralph,  415. 

Waget.     See  Watchet. 

Waget,    John,  eseheator  in  the  count v    of 
Oxford,  298. 

Waggard,  Daxid,  415. 

,  Thomas,  415. 

Waghterard.    See  Oughterard. 

Wagott,  William,  265. 

Wainfleet,  Waynfl«te,co.  Lincoln,  371. 

Watth,  Wath,  co.  Lincoln,  1 69. 

Wake,  Baldwin,  242. 

,  John,  374,  560,  565. 

,  Thomas,  37,  102,  122,  134,  266,  491, 

568. 

, ,  sheriff  of  Northampton,  266, 

826. 

Wakefeld,  86,  57,  63,  94,  143, 340. 

,  CO.  Northampton,  544. 

CO.  York,  4,  5,  97,  466. 

,  battle  of,  69,516. 

Wakefield,    Henry,    bishop    of     Worcester 
[1875-1895],  400. 

,  Richard,  508. 

, ,  prior  of  Sixhill,  196,  387. 

,  William,  29. 

Wakcring,  Wakeryng;  co.  Essex,  145. 

,  Great,  105. 

,  Little,  268. 

Wakerley,  John,  63. 

Wakeryng,  John,  master  of  the  hospital  of 

St.      Bartholomew,      Westsmythfeld, 

London,  828,  414. 

Walbrond,  John,  prebendary  of  Ohardstock, 
322. 

, ,  prebendary  of  St.  Stephen^s, 

WestmuQster,  822. 

Walcote,  John,  886. 

,  Richard,  567. 

Waldegrave,  Walgrave,  co.  Northampton,  5, 
87. 

,  CO.  York,  74,  213,  219,  427,  438. 

Waldegrave,  Richard,  578. 

,  Thomas,  38,  277,  491,  573. 

Walden,  co.  Essex,  50,  178,  506,  509. 

,  abbot  of,  33. 

,  John,  275,  276,  851. 

Wnldern  [co.  Sussex],  hundred  of,  465,548. 


GENERAL  INDEX. 


1 1/ 


Wflldgrave,  Rose,  abbess  of  Elstow,  224. 

Wnldingfield,  Morefet  in,  co.  Suffolk,  72. 

Wftldridfe,  Waldernge,  co.  iluckiughaoi, 
867. 

Waldyere,  John,  581. 

Thoma9,  236,  581. 

Wale,  John,  414. 

Waleis,  Jobn,  519. 

Walerand,  liobert,  160,  307,  408. 

Wales,  Welsh,  6,  80,  45,  63,  69,  77,  91,  98, 
98-100,106,  119,  150,  198,200,208, 
228,  261,  276,  280,  286,  292,  326,  363, 
366,  425,  426,  477,  518,  549. 

,  marches  of,  6,  30,43,  77,  91,  99,  119, 

197,200,205,  208,  228,  229,  261,  339, 
344,  363,  426,  477,  518,  551. 

, escheator  in,  85,  107,  228,  291, 

455,  518. 

d ,  prince  of,  429. 

A7id  see  Edward. 

,  North,  56,  91,  150. 

, .......  chamberlain  of,  51,  69. 

And  see  Hastyngen. 
, .justice  of,  271,  352,  467. 

And  see  Tiptoft,  Audele. 

,  ,  exchequer  of,  529. 

, ,  auditors  of,  26,  192,529. 

, ,  king's  attorney  in.     <S*ee  Law- 
ley. 
,  .......  king's  cannoneer  in,  69. 

,  South,  34,  38,   48,  65,  91,  100,  132, 

150,360,431. 

, ,  chamberlain    of,  10,  40,   110, 

287,  546,  547. 

And  see  Herbert. 

, ,  justice  of.     See  Herbert. 

, ,  auditors  in,  10,  183,  192,  287, 

429. 

, ,  forests  in,  527. 

Wales,  Geoflrey,  452. 

Walcsby,  William,  dean  of  St.  Stephen's 
Chapel,  Westminster,  163. 

, ,  prebendary  of  Westminster,  19. 

Waletstrfte  [co.  Kent],  264. 

Waleys,  Johu,  292,  418. 

,  William,  419,  511. 

Walgherton,  co.  Chester,  336. 

Walgraye.    See  Waldcgrave. 

Walgrave,  Thomas,  72,  303,  390,  452. 

Walkeden,  Koger,  65. 

Walker,  John,  67,  263,  490,  504. 

,  Thomas,  keeper  of  the  records  of  the 

Common  Bench  of  Ireland,  71. 

,  William,  173,  314,  316. 

Walkernc,  co.  Hertford,  538. 

Walkhamptou,  Walkarapton,  co.  Devon,  149. 

Walle,  John,  490. 

Waller,  Bichard,  111. 

, ,  the  younger,  566. 

Wallesgrave  (by  Scarborough),  co.  York,  468. 

Walleworth,  John,  116. 

William,  l>a. 


Wallingford,  Walyngford,  Waren^eford,  co., 
Berks  9,  18,  42,  100,  109,  127,  149, 
178,  202,  21o,  237,  380,  387,  435,  437, 
545. 

,  charters  dated  at,  62,  244,  249,  251, 

378,  397,  556. 

Wallop,  John,  202,  572. 

,  Richard,  572. 

Wallyngton.    See  Wellington. 

Walonger,  John,  415. 

Walpole,  CO.  Norfolk,  4,  498,  501. 

Walraund,  Robert,  432. 

Walron,  Walrond,  Thomas,  278,  363,  389, 
559,  570. 

Walsale,  William,  210. 

,  Robert,  211. 

Walsall,  Walshale,  co.  Stafford,  172,  490. 

Walsam,  Robert,  255,  287. 

Walsham,  co.  Norfolk,  hundred  of,  512. 

Walsham,  Richard,  256. 

Walshcroft,  co.  Lincoln,  wapentake  of,  451. 

Walshe,  Walssh,  John,  201,  492. 

,  Geoffrey,  386. 

,  Thomas,  320. 

Walsin^baui,  Walsyngham,  Great,  co. 
Norfolk,  131. 

,  Little,  Norfolk,  131,  260,  314. 

,  charter  dated  at,  171. 

,00.  Norfolk,  prior   and  convent  of, 

484. 

,  Thomas,  prior  of,  484. 

Walsoken,  co.  Norfolk,  498. 

Walson,  Simon,  79. 

Walstead,  Wahtede,  co.  Sussex,  88,  465, 548. 

Walter,  Hubert,  bishop  of  Salisbury  [1189- 
1193],  404. 

,  John,  272,  412. 

, ,  master  of  the  hospital  of  St. 

I/eonard,  Leicester,  46. 

, ,  parson  of  Laneham,  193. 

,  Bichard,  126,  510. 

,  ap  John,  263. 

Walterot,  Thomas,  21,  198. 

Waltbam,  co.  Essex,  charters  dati-d  at,  399, 
496. 

,  letters  patent  dated  at,  51,  53. 

,  hundred  of,  399. 

,  forest  of,  48. 

...,  Holy  Cross,  co.  Essex,  399. 

, ,  abbey  of,  234,  399. 

, ,  abbot  and  convent  of,  399. 

,  abbot  of,  33. 

, ,  John,  abbot  of,  234,  39J. 

y I  Nicholas,  abbot  of,  399. 

Waltham,  Henry,  59. 

,  John,  bishop  of  Salisbury,  161. 

Walthewe,  Robert,  463. 

Walton,  charters  dated  at,  235,  247,  305. 

,  CO.  Lincoln,  169. 

,  Wanton,  CO.  Norfolk,  498. 

I ,  CO  Surrey,  .328,  430,  468,  481. 


718 


GENERAL  INDEX. 


Walton,  CO.  York,  292. 

West,  CO.  York,  455. 

on  the  Wold,  co.  Leicester,  854. 

on  the  Hill,  col  Surrey,  300,  545. 

Walton,  John,  57. 

,  Nicholas,  16. 

,  Robert,  33. 

,  Thomas,  35,  95. 

, ,  parson  of  Hinton,  440. 

William,  502. 

Walwaynes,  in  South  Wales,  34. 
Walweoescastell.    See  Walwyn's  Castle. 
Walweyn,  Makelin,  565. 

,  William,  98. 

.'.,  Dan  William,  prior  of  Wenlok,  180, 

187. 

Walwick     Grange,      Walwykgraunge,      co. 
Northamberland,  340,  341. 

Walworth,  John,  452. 

Walwyn's  Castle,  Walweneseastell  [co.  Pem- 
broke], 114. 
Walyngford.    See  Wallingford. 
Walyngford,  Belasset  de,  300. 
Walyngton,  WiUiam,  315. 
\\raly8,  Richard,  528. 
Wanborough,  co.  WQts,  536. 
Wandesford,  Christopher,  29. 

,  John,  80,  576. 

,  Thomas,  348. 

,  William,  371,  520. 

Wandsworth,  co.  Surrey,  451. 

Waner,  Henry,  143. 

Wangford  by  Brandon,  co,  Suffolk,  142. 

Wansford,  Waunceford,  co.  Northampton,  351. 

,  Wandesford,  co.  York,  198,  455. 

Wantynge,  5. 
Wapham,  co.  Sussex,  443. 
Wappeston,  co.  Surrey,  42. 
Warberton,  John,  315. 

, ,  the  elder,  31. 

, ,  the  younger,  31. 

Warcombe,  West,  Westworcombe,  co.  Devon, 

254,  502. 
Warcop,  Robert,  the  elder,  662,  575. 
Waroopland,  co.  Westmoreland,  169. 
Wardale,  John,  254. 
Warde,  co.  Dublin,  357. 
Warde,  Edmund,  230. 

,  Ralph,  82. 

,  Richard,  parson  of  Geldeston,  503. 

,  Robert,  510. 

,  Thomas,  316,  449. 

,  William,  506. 

Wardour,  Wardere,  co.  Wilts,  8,  87,  225, 
226. 

Wardrobe,  the  great,  7,  10,  15,  17-19,  21,  28, 
24,  26,  39,  47-60,  52,  55,  59,  71,  75, 
85,  92,  95, 106, 122-126, 128,  198,  202, 
208,  212,  261,  262,  283,  297,  822.  336, 
344,  861,  388,  427,  437,  472,  515,  528, 
524. 


Wardrobe,  clerk  or  keeper  of,   8,  10,  15,    17, 
21,  50,  53,  59,  106,  123,  152,  184,  358, 
422,  432,  437,  515. 
And  see  Darell ;  Cousin. 
Wardrop,  Robert,  434. 

,  William,  107. 

Ware,  co.  Hertford,  338,  339,  415,  502,  528. 

Ware,  John,  546. 

,  Robert,  231. 

Warehara,  co.  Dorset,  131. 

Warendorp,  John,  25.3. 

Warengeford.     See  Wallingford. 

Warenna,  John  de,  earl  of  Surrey,  1 58. 

Warenne,  earl  of.    See  Mowbray. 

,  W.  earl,  394,  896. 

.,  Hamelin,  earl  of,  307. 

,  Isabel,  countess  of,  his  wife,  307. 

,  Johnde,  66,  67. 

Wareyn,  Edmund,  34. 

John,  415. 

,  Nicholas,  516. 

,  Robert,  468. 

Warftirreshopton.     See  Hopton  Wafers. 

Warham,  Thomas,  443. 

Wark,  John,  256. 

Warkworth,  Werkworth,  co.  Northumberland, 
44,  199,  261,  840. 

Warles,  William,  178. 

Warley,  co.  Eesez,  396. 

Warmington,  Wermyngton,  co.  Northampton, 
501. 

,  CO.  Warwick,  125. 

Wamecunp,  John,  428. 

Warner,  Nicholas,  88. 

,  Thomas,  16,  856,  287,  446. 

..,  William,  son  of,  500. 

Waii>e6den.    See  Worplesdon. 

Warre,  Richard,  416. 

,  Robert,  99,  184,  571. 

Warrewik,  Walter,  100. 

Warrewyk.    See  Warwick. 

Warsop,  Warshop,  cu.  Nottingham,  87. 

Warter,  Wartre,  co.  York,  87. 

....,  priory  of,  87,  285. 

Warter,  Christopher,  3. 

Wartling,  Wratlyng,  co.  Sussex,  419. 

Warton,  co.  Lancaster,  445,  461. 

Warton,  William,  418. 

Wartre,  Richard,  520. 

,  Alice  his  wife,  520. 

Warwest,  William,  bishop  of  Exeter,  441. 

Warwick,  Warrewyk,  80,  217,  816. 

,  St.  Mary  and  All  Saints,  dean  and 

chapter  of,  80,  295. 

,  ,  William  Berkeswell,  deaii  of, 

80. 


., ,  Thomas  Yonge,  dean  of,  80. 

.,  charter  dated  at,  405. 

.,  connty  of,  81,  43,  47,  111,  117,  122, 
138,  808,  357,  389,  891,  446,  448,  450, 
489,491. 


GENERA.L  INDEX. 


719 


Warwick,  county  of,  sherifFof,  160,  227,  285,    I 
324,  3 19,  369,  435,  450,  480,  491.  | 

And  see  Greyile  i  Harcourt;  Higford. 
, ,  escheator  ia,  9,  85,291,  334, 

380,  524. 

And  see  Steyens. 
, ,  outlawries  in,  3,  175,  419,  459, 

508,  510. 

, ,  justices  of  the  peace  in,  459. 

,......,  commissionH  of  the  peace  in,  574. 

,  duke  of.    See  Beauchamp. 

,  earl  of.     See  Neville. 

Waryu,  Thomas,  46G,  509. 
Waryuges,  Nicholas,  572. 

Washinghorongh,  Wassynghourgh,  co.  Lin- 
coln, 169. 

Washington,  Waschynton,  co.  Sussex,  212. 
Wasshe,  Thomas,  566. 
Wassynghourgh.    See  Washinghorongh. 
Wast,  CO.  Lincoln,  41. 

Wastdale  Head,   Westdalehed,  co.   Cumber- 
land, 87. 
Watchet,  Waget,  co.  Somerset,  286,  366. 
Watch6eld,  Wachennesfeld,  co.  Berkii,  271. 
Water,  John,  23,  348. 
Waterford,  in  Ireland,  58,  263. 
,  mayor  of,  515. 

,  Holy  Trinity,  dean  and  chapter  of, 

57. 

Waterfulford,  co.  York,  334,  467, 
Waters,  John,  317. 
Wntersfield,  co.  Sussex,  251. 
Waterton,  Richard,  468. 
Wates,  Thomas,  5. 
Wateshurst,  co.  Middlesex,  197. 
Watford,  co.  Hertford,  91. 

,  CO.  Northampton,  170,  289. 

Wath.    6«eWaith. 
Wath,  John,  485. 

,  Thomas,  57,  216,  260. 

Watkyns,  John,  317. 
Watler,  Richard,  566. 

Watlington,    Whatlyngton,    co.    Oxford,    9, 
149,  295. 

,  churter  dated  at,  221. 

Wattes,  Wattis,  Wattys,  John,  505,  509. 

,  Richard,  290. 

,  Simon,  415. 

,  Thomaa,  290,  511. 

WattOB,  eo.  Norfolk,  286. 

at  Stone,  co.  Hertford,  79,  223,  355. 

Watur,  Degory,  92. 

Richard,  92. 

Waonceford.    See  Wansford. 

Wanghan,  John,  263. 

Wayendon,  co.  Bnckinn^ham,  225,  226. 

Waver,  Henry,  863,  537,  542. 

, ,  sheriff  of  London,  525. 

Waver  Merston,  co.  Warwick,  542. 

Waverlejr    [co.  Surrey],  abbot  and  convent 
o 


ey    [co 
>f,  218. 


Wawens,  Wottou.    See  Wooton  Waweu. 

Wawtim.     See  Walton. 

Way  mouth.     See  Weymouth. 

Waynesford,  Weynsford,  William,   77,   197, 
371,482. 

Waynflete,  John,  302,  327. 

, ,  dean  of  Chichester,  110. 

, ,  prebendary  of  Salisbur}-,  19. 

, ,  prebendary  of  Westminster,  19. 

,Wil]iam,  bishop  of  Winchester  [1447- 

1486],  37,  38,176,  180,  18.5,  188,  214, 
219,  252,  285,  290,  436,  444,  472,  539, 
559,560,571,  573,  575. 

Wayte,  265. 

Wayte,  John,  255. 

.,  Richard,  456. 

,  Roger,  456. 

,  Thomas,  255. 

Wear,  Were  [co.  Devon],  889. 

Weasenham,  Wesynham,  co.  Norfolk,  173. 

Webbe,  Roger,  1,  92. 

,  Thomas,  414. 

William,  452,  488. 

Webber,  Henry,  dean  of  Exeter,  80,  563. 

,  William,  415. 

Webster,  Richard,  190. 

,  Agnes  his  wife,  190. 

Wechynden,  Wychynden,  John,  429. 

Wedmore,  co.  Somerset^  819. 

Wedon  Beke.     See  Weedon  Beck. 

Wedower,  Nicholas,  33. 

WedstTode,  294. 

Weedon  Beck,  Wedon  Beke,co.  Northampton, 
77,  108,  150. 

Weedon  Pynkeny,  co.  Northampton,  148. 

Week  St.  Mary,  co.  Cornwall.  372. 

Wegeberwe.     See  Wigborough. 

Weights  and  measures,  false,  134. 

Wekeoobeham.    See  Cobham  Wick. 

Wekys,  William,  32. 

Welanrast,  William  de,  404. 

Welbeck  [co.  Nottingham],  abbot  of,  226. 

Welbey.     See  Wilby. 

Welbouru,  oo.  Lincoln,  103,  173,  352. 

Welby,  Richard,  35,  528,  566,  567. 

Welcomettowe  (Walthamstow),  charter  dated 
at,  59. 

Weld,  Roger,  8. 

Weldemore,  co.  Lincoln,  356. 

Welden,  Richard,  203, 206. 

Weldon,  Little,  co.  Northampton,  285. 

Weldon,  Richard,  287. 

,  William  10,  188, 191,  287,  429,  547. 

Welegh,  CO.  Southampton,  108,  150. 

Welford,  John,  38,  65,  98,  151,  .565. 

,  Isabel  his  wife,  151. 

Welhagh.    See  Wellow. 

Welbou.    See  Wellow. 

Welk,  John,  862. 

Well,  Welles,  co.  Lincoln,  116,  184,  427,468, 
473. 


'20 


GENERAL  INDEX. 


Well,  Richard,  dean  of  Tettenball,  378. 
WcIk-omlK:.  co.  Devon,  372. 
Wclle,  Hichard  atte,  479,  M5. 

,  Alice  his  wife,  47». 

,  Thomas,  37,  304,  390,  444,  571. 

Welles.     See  Well  Hall. 

Welles.  Wellvs    Weeycl,  James,  867,  416, 

522. 

,  John,  35,  374,  427. 

, ,  ofWillonghby,  491. 

,  Leo,  lord  of,  113,  116,  150,  184,  356, 

357,  416.  427,  468. 
,  Richaid,of  Willoiighby,34,  257,  357, 

468,  473,  566,  567. 

,  Joan  his  wife,  34. 

,  Robert,  34,  567. 

Thomas,  411,  530,  552,  554. 

,  prior  of  the  Friars  Preachers 

of  Laogley,  556. 

,  William,  chancellor  of  IreUind,  21, 

201,  294. 

, chief  buUer  of  Ireland,  124,292. 

Wellesley,  James,  181. 

,  Walrou,  340. 

Well  Hall,  Welhalle,  Welles,  co.  Horfolk,  alien 

priory  of,  108,  151. 
Wellingborough,  Wenlyngburgh,  co.  North- 
ampton, 195,  369,  881,  437. 

Wellington,  Wallyngton,  co.  Salop,  316,  317. 

,  CO.  Hereford,  546. 

Wellow,  Welhou,  co.  Lincoln,  abbey  of,  41. 

,  Welhagh,  co.  Nottingham,  139. 

,  CO.  Somerset,  2.58. 

Wells,  CO.  Somerset,  117,  373.  383,  434. 

,  cathedral  of,  17. 

,  dean  and  chapter  of,  869,  378,  883, 

386. 

,  dean  and  canons  of,  394. 

dean  of.     See  Carent. 

,  treasurer  of.     See  Sugar. 

Welnctham,  Whelwetham,  Great,  co.  Suffolk, 
109. 

,  Little,  CO.  Suffolk,  109. 

Weltden,  Thomas,  12. 

Welton,  CO.  Lincoln,  1,  112,  506. 

,  CO.  Somerset,  23,  362. 

Welweton.     See  WeKon. 

Welyngton,  Richard,  108. 

,  Thomas,  490.- 

Wembdon,  Wendowne,  co.  Somerset,  192. 

Wemstede  in  Watton,  co.  Hertford,  223. 

Wencelagh,  John,  206,  509. 

Wendey,  co.  Cambridge,  461. 

Wendover,  co.  Buckingham,  121,  131,  318, 
870. 

,  men  of,  370,  456. 

Wendy,  John,  504. 

Wengale,  co.  Lincoln,  alien  priory  of,  73. 

Wenge,  co.  Buckingham,  53. 

,  priory  of,  53. 

Wengham,  Henry  de,  408. 
Wenlloit.     See  Went  liOOg. 


Weuloek,  Wenlok,  eo.  Salop,  16,  264. 

,  priory  of,  187,192. 

,  prior  and  convent  of,  114. 

,  prior  of,  74. 

,  Dan  William  Walweyn,  prior  of,  180, 

187. 

,  Dan  Roger  Wenlok,  prior  of,  192. 

,  Roger  Barrey,  prior  of,  198. 

Wenlok,  John,  of  Wenlok,  28,  30,  54,  88,  105, 

112,  115,  132,  141,  142,  178,  1»0,  181, 

183,  184,  195,  223,  229,  231,  233,  279, 

803,  304,  308,  346,  847,  389-391,  429, 

450,  493,  559,  560,  565. 
, ,  chief  butler  of  England,  8, 11, 

14,   26,   102,  128,  323,  331,  359,  424, 

517,  647. 

, .treasurer  of  Ireland,  84,  517. 

, (temp.  Henry  IV.),  468. 

,  Dan  Roger,  prior  of  Wenlock,  192. 

Wenlyburgh.     See  WeUingboroogh. 
Wennuigton,   Wenyngton,    co.    Huntingdon, 

381. 

,  Old,  CO.  Lancaster,  445,  461. 

Wenslagh,  John,  102,  349,  576. 

Wenslawe,  Richard,  175. 

Went.     See  Derwent. 

Went  Loog,  Wenlloit  [co.  Monmouth],  13, 

324,  463. 
Wentworth,  John,  320. 
Wenyngton.    See  Winnington. 
Wenyngton,  Robert,  75,  137. 
Wercham.     See  Marcham. 
Wercop,  Thomas,  280. 
Werk,  lord  of.    See  Gray. 
Werkworth.     See  Warkworth. 
Wermyngton.    See  Warmington. 
Werse,  John,  492. 
Werthyngton.    See  Worthington. 
Weryche,  William,  173. 
Wesby,  Thomas,  130. 

Wesebeche,  Thomas,  abbot  of  Thomey,  36 1 . 
Weseoham,  Walter,  185. 
West,  CO.  Corowall,  hundred  of,  204. 
West,  Hugh,  254. 

Richard,  4,  382.  457. 

,  Stephen,  255. 

,  Thomas,  254. 

,  Joan  his  wife,  254. 

de  la  Warre,  Richard,  132,  201,205, 

207i  574. 
,  Reginald,  457,  572, 

Westbargh,  co.  Suirey,  518. 
Westbechesworth.     See  Betchworth. 
Westbere,  co.  Kent,  88,  464,  548. 

And  see  Bere. 
Westborough,  Westburgh,  co.  Lincoln,  179, 

355. 
Westbrook,  co.  Berks,  485,  445,  481. 
Westbury,  charter  dated  at,  241. 
,  CO.  Gloucestor,  dean  and  chapter  of 

the  collegiate  church  of.  822,  444,  521. 
,  Henry  Sampson,  dean  of,  322,  444. 


UENEUAL  INDEX. 


721 


We«tbury,  Williaui,  provoitt  of  Eton  College, 
73. 

I  ,  prebendary  of  St.  Stephen's, 

Westminster,  469. 

Westby,  Bdmand,  565. 

,  Gregoiy,  181,  863-365,  36:$. 

Westchestre,  284. 

Westcote  Barton,  co.  Oxford,  254. 

Westcote,  Quy,459. 

Westdalehed.    See  Wastdale  Head. 

West  Ella,  co.  York,  237. 

\Ve«terfioId,We8tterfeld,  CO.  Suffolk,  132,  180. 

Westerham,  Westram,  co.  Kent,  548. 

Westgate,  Westjeate,  co.  Devon,  477 

Westhagh,  Thomas,  176. 

Westhammesfrith,  co.  Essex,  398 

Westhamptonet.     See  Hampnet. 

Westhay,  co.  Northampton,  48. 

Westhide,  co.  Herefoi-d,  372. 

Westhope,  co.  Salop,  443. 

Westhorp,  Edmund,  317. 

>  Thomas,  master  of  Chancery,  275. 

> ,  parson  of  Enville,  275. 

Westley,  co.  Suffolk,  225,  226. 

Westley,  Edmund,  065. 

Westmaner  in  Rushton,  co.    Northampton, 
431. 

Westmelne.    See  West  Mill. 

Westmerden.     See  Manlen. 

Westmerton. .   See  Marton. 

West  Mill,   Wentroelne,   co.   Hertford,   162, 
296,  356. 

Westminster,  13,  14,  26,  45,  69,  180,   166, 
170,  177,  189,  194,  209,  211,  213,  216, 

217,  229,  265,  272,  274,  289,  290,  295, 
314,  318.  322,  371,  382,  884,  4!d,  442, 
444,  456,  458,  475,  479,  512,  516,  526, 
534-537,  541,  542,  546. 

,  letters  patent  dated  at,  passim. 

,  charters  dated  at,  41,  78,  84,  109, 

139,  148,  158-162,  164-168,  170,  171, 
189,  190,  208,  228,  229,  235-252,  264, 
266,  271,  276,  296,  299,  305-309,  311- 
313,  333,  340,  392-401,  403-409,  427, 
473,  477,  494  499,  523,  527,  531,  538, 
555^  558. 

Parliament   at,   14,  38,  68,  72,   74, 

77,  86,  91,  93,  94,  104-106,  108, 
109,  111-116,  118,  120-122,  128,  137. 

140,  141,  143,  146,  150,  151,  153,  163, 
178-182,  184,  186,  187,  lf9,  190,  192. 
195,  196,  198-200,  203,  208.  210,  212, 

218,  216,  218.  219,  224,  225,  229,  231, 
268-271,  282.  284,  286,  292,  295,  297, 
301,  302,  321,  323,  327,  332-334,  337, 
341,  342.  345,  347,  348,  852-363,  367, 
369.  871.  372,  378,  381,  387-4J90,  422, 
424-429,  431,  432.  434,  435,  440,  441, 
443-445,  447,  448.  452,  454,  456-458, 
461,  466-471,  473-476,478,479,482, 
484-486,  489,  499,  516,  517,  521,  522, 
525,  531,  532,  534,  531,  537.  544-546, 
548,  549,  551. 

statutes  of,  29,  38,  68,  134,  200,  276, 

345,  449,  528. 

K     8C9H. 


Westminster,  staple  of,  163. 

,  council  chamber  at,  18. 

,  *  Prlncespalice  '  at,  16,  111. 

I  private  palace  of,  16. 

,  St.  Peter's  Abbey,  196,  290,  322. 

..f ,  ......  abbot  and  convent  of,  22,  165. 

*.y ,  Edmund  Kirton,  abbot  of,  3, 

22,  255,  290,  322. 

,    ,  George,  abbot  of,  260,  290, 

322. 

, ,  Nicholas,  abbot  of,  165. 

, ,  Thomas,  abbot  of,  165. 

Westminster  palace,  11,  19, 23,  26,  50,  69,  96, 
113,  163,  181,  183,273,512. 

,  ball  of,  273. 

,  the  king*8  wardrobe  in,  18. 

,  staple  of,  285. 

,  penalty  for  striking  a  penon  in,  380. 

,  *  le  Clokhous  '  in,  163. 

,  *  le  Pycherhous  *  in,  273. 

, ,  *  glasiers  logge  *  in,  10. 

college  in,  238. 

chapel  of  St.  Stephen  in,  6,  78. 

, ,  dean  and  canons  of,  162,  163, 

259,416,454,487,495. 

, ,  deau  of,  543. 

And  see  Kirkeham ;  Walesby ;  Sleford. 

, ,  prebends  in,  17,  19,  94,  822, 

357,  469,  539,  543. 

Westmoreland,  county  of,  40,  66,  86,  182, 
133,  186,  189.  213,  224,  280,  363,390, 
477. 

, ,  sheriff  of,  280,  346,  435. 

And  see  Parr. 

, ,  escheator  in,  220,  382,  353. 

, ,  commissions  of  the  peace  in, 

575. 

..,  earl  of.     iSee  Neville. 

Westneweton  by  Luffeton,  in  the  parish  of 
St.  Mellion,  co.  Cornwall,  457,  458. 

Weston,  CO.  Buckingham,  87. 

,  CO.  Cambridge,  521. 

,  CO.  Essex,  72. 

,  CO.  Lincoln,  471. 

CO.  Hertford,  212. 

,  CO.  Norfolk,  186,  233. 

,  CO.  Northampton,  148. 

Turvile,  co.  Buckingham,  121,  47  8. 

Underwode,  co.  Buckingham,  5. 

by  Baldok,  co.  Hertford,  172. 

under  Lisanl,  Weston  under  Lesxerd, 

CO.  Stafford,  256. 

WcHton,  Henry,  452. 

,  William,  884,  385. 

Westorchard,  co.  Buckingham,  367. 

Westsprayhele,  co.  Cornwall,  372. 

Westwaterland,  co.  Devon,  227,  359,  372. 

WcKtwode,  CO.  Kent,  544. 

,  CO.  Lincoln,  484. 

Westwood,  CO.  Worcester,  Elisabeth  Norton, 
prioress  of,  470. 

z  z 


T22 


GKNERAL INDEX. 


We»tirorthaoi.     Ste  Wretlunii. 

We*ynhuni.     .SVe  Wemenham. 

Wesynliam,  Robert,  2ft6. 

Weteohall,  Waiiam,  2&8. 

Wetewang,  pi-ebeod  of,  17. 

Wetberley.  Thoaian,  490. 

WetheriiliUce.     See  WHherdlack. 

Wetton,  MfMter  Uicbard,  89. 

Wetwai%  Richard,  348. 

Wever,  Walter,  374. 

Wexcombe,  co.  Wllto,  328.     , 

Wexford.     .SV**  Vexford. 

Weybridge,  Wabrigge,  co.  Ifantingdon,  21. 

,  forest  of,  58. 

,  CO.  Sarrey,  287. 

•  Weybrygge  Uawc,'  co.  Surrey,  16. 
Weymouth,  Way  mouth,  co.  Dorset,  8,  110, 
181,  540. 

,  mayor  of,  451. 

,I)ortof,  110,  451,540. 

Weynsford.     See  Waynenford. 
Weynahed,  John,  501. 

Weyseford,  lord  of.     See  Hastings ;  Valencia. 
WhaddoD,  co.  QlouceRter,  268. 

,  CO.  Buckiogham,  181. 

Nasshc,  CO.  Baekingham,  131. 

Whaddon,  John,  prior  of  St.  Giles,  Beme- 

well,  327,  358. 
Wbaplode,  Quapplode,  co.  Lincoln,  412. 
Whaplwl,  Robert,  882. 
Wharf,  John,  186,  135. 
Wharfe  river,  223. 
Wharton,  Thoman,  280. 
Whatlok,  Robert,  101. 

,  MaHter  Simon,  vicar  of  Mere,  101. 

Whatlyngton.     See  Watlington. 
Wbatton.     See  Watton. 
Wbawe,  co.  York,  169. 
Whele,  Richard,  502. 
Wheler,  John,  2,  5,  174. 

,  Richard,  445. 

Robert,  204. 

Whelpdale,  John,  360. 

,  William,  111,   113,    224,   386,  387, 

472. 

Whelpeley,  William,  80. 
Whelpington,  co.  Northumberland,  340. 
Whelwctham.    See  Welnetham. 
AVherstede,  co.  Suffolk,  111,  200,  458. 
l^lieston,  Thomas,  490. 
Whetehill,  Adrian,  267,  543. 

Richard,  267,  589,  543. 

Whethamstedc,  Master  John,   abbot  of   St. 

Albans,  345,  386. 
Whiche,  Hugh,  mayor  of  London,  204. 
Whichecote,  Whichcote,  John,  34,  101,  112, 

129,  205,  567. 
Whichewode.     See  ^ychwood. 
Whichford,  Wichford,  co.  Warwick,  415. 
Whimple,  Whympell,  Wymple,  co.   Devon, 

225,227,281. 


Wbinliereh,  WhymtxTgh,  WhynKre^ro,  co. 
Norfolk.  179,355,416. 

^Vhinfell.  Whvnfell,  QwynfeW,  co.  Westmore- 
land, 86,  105,  118,  186,  189,  432,  434. 

>Miippeton.     See  Whiplon. 
Whipsnade,  Wypseiiade,  co.  Bedford,  1 74. 
Whipton,  Wliyppetou,  oo.  Devon,  146. 
Whitby,  CO.  York,  347. 

,  abbey  of  St.  Peter  and  St.  Hilda, 

224,  289. 

, ,  abbot  and  convent  of,  893. 

Hugh,  abbot  of,  224. 

,  Thomas,  abbot  of;  393. 

,  Thomas  Fikeryng,  abbot  of,  289. 

Whitcharch,  Wbitchircb,  182. 

,  CO.  Baekingham,  62,  76. 

CO.  !>evon,  536. 

,  CO,  Salop,  511. 

Whitchirche.     See  Whitchnrck. 
Wbitc,  Whyte,  John,  20S,  257,  435. 

,  Riehaid,  39,  315,  413. 

,  Richard,  parson  of  St.  Saviour  or 

Bokard,  322. 

,  Robert,  487. 

.Roger,  174. 

Simon,  66. 

,  Thomas,  463. 

,  William,  472,  489,  587. 

, ,  mayor  of  Poole,  101. 

Whitechurch,  co.  Dorset,  525. 
Wbiteclyff,  co.  York,  169. 
Whitecok.     See  Withcote. 
Whitefield,  Whytfyld,  co.  Dorset,  443. 
Whitefote,  John,  378. 
Whitehall,  co.  Cumberland,  466. 
Whitehede,  James,  469.- 
White     Lackiagton,    Whygtlakyngton,     co. 
Somerset,  174. 

Whitelady  Aston,  co.  Worcester,  416. 

Whitelwode.     See  Whittlewood. 

Whitewell,  co.  Norfolk,  285. 

And  see  WhitwilL 

Whitewik.     See  Whitwick. 

Wbitford,  Whytford,  co.  Devon,  116,  323. 

Wbitford,  Geoffrey,  150, 

.,  Thomas,  382. 

Whithed,  John,  374. 

Whitingham,     Whytingham,     Whittingham, 
John,  121. 

,  Robert,  105,  121,  122,  211,  367,  435, 

444,521,522. 

, ,  receiver-general  of  the  Dachy 

of  Cornwall,  221. 

,Kdmand,  568. 

Whitle.     See  Witley. 

Whitlowe,    Whitteiowe,    Whytelawe,  Roger, 
267. 

Whitokesmede.     See  Wbittok.smede. 

Whitstable,  Whitstaple,  co.   Kent,   88,  465, 

548. 

Whittcney,  Kustiico,  98,  565. 


GENERAL  INDEX. 


723 


Whitthoru,  John,  462. 
Whittlesea  Mere.  Wittelysmere,  281. 
Whittlesford  Bridge,  co.  Cambridge,  869. 
Whittlewood,  Whitelwode,  co.  Northamptou, 

forest  of.  47,  58,  103,   137,  233,  326, 

837^  544. 

Wbittokesmede  [in  Wellow],  co.  Somerset,  3. 
Whittokesmede,  Whitokesmede,  John,  32,  37, 

98,  99,  132,  208,  452,  575. 
Whitton,  Witton.  Wytton,  co.  Northumber- 

land,  116,541. 

Whittingham.     See  Whitingham. 
Whitwell,    Whittewell,    co.     Westmoreland, 
169. 

,  CO.  Dorset,  133. 

Whitwell,  John,  3. 

,  Robert,  265. 

Whitwick,  Whitewik,  co.  Leicester,  104,  177, 

187,  354,  362. 
Whitwill,  Whitewell,  oo.  Devon,  119,  429. 
Whitjlwade.     See  Whittlewood. 
Whiting,  John,  37. 
Whityngdon,  Thomas,  391. 
Whittingham.    .See  Whitingham. 
Whityngton.  co.  Leicester,  354. 
Whityngton,  William,  564. 
Whitynough,  Juliana.  35. 
Whomson,  co.  Gloucester,  169,  533. 
Whygtlakyngton.    See  White  Lackiugton. 
Whynfell.    See  Wlunfell. 
Whyng,  John,  863-366,  368. 
Why  tehete,  Robert,  175. 
Whytford.     .See  Whitford. 
Whytingham.     See  Whitingham. 
Whytyndon,  Thomai*,  491. 
Whytyngeslowe,  co.  Salop,  62* 
WibbUl,  Wibwill,  co.  Somerset,  286,  366. 
Wichbold,  Wychebolde,  co.  Worcester,    91, 

888. 

Wick,  Wike,  co.  Dorset,  131. 
Wicken,  Wykyn,  co.  Cambridge,  374. 
Wickenby,  Wykenby,  co.  Lincoln,  871. 
Wickford,  500. 

Wicklow,  Wvkelowe,  in  Ireland,  59,837,  374, 
380.  ' 

Wickmere,  Wykmere,  co.  Norfolk,  179,  355. 

Wicton,  CO.  York,  841. 

Widcomb,  Wydecombe,  co.  Somerset,  23, 176, 

177,862. 
Widcfeld,  co.  Devon,  873. 
Widigata,  co.  Caermarthen,  commote  of,  40. 
Wido,  son  of  Testir,  167. 
Wigborough,      Wegeberwe,      Wyggebcrgh, 

CO.  KtKCX,  35,  396. 
Wigdon,  CO.  Devon,  872. 
Wiggenhall,  Wygcnhale  [co.  Norfolk],  406. 
Wiggy,  Wyghey,  co.  Surrey,  504. 
Wight,  iHle  of,  27,  87,  38,  56,  96,  208,  304, 

424,  492,  535,  552,  554. 

,  lieutenant  of.     .See  Gate. 

,  forest  in,  .^6. 


Wightmede  in  the  forest  of  Dean,  co. 
Gloucester,  861, 

Wigmore,  Wyggemore,  honour  of,  79,  143, 
182,  475. 

Wigoro,  John,  31. 

Wigston,  Wygeston,  co.  Leicester,  76. 

Wigton,  Wygdon  in  Alderdale,  co.  Cumber- 
land, 466,  502. 

Wigtoft,  Wygtoft,  CO.  Lincoln,  169. 

Wikes.     See  Wykes. 

Wilbarston,  Wilbaston,  oo.  Northampton, 
104,  854. 

Wilberfosse,  co.  York,  342. 

,  prioress  and  nuns  of,  341. 

,  Elizabeth,  prioress  of,  341. 

Wilberton,  169. 

Wilbraham,  Wilbram,  Wilburgham,  co. 
Cambridge,  179,  355. 

.Great,  98,  144. 

,  Little,  98,  144. 

Wilburfosse,  William,  son  of  Robert  de,  842. 

,  Osbert,  son  of  Ulger  de,  842. 

Wilburgham.     See  Wilbraham. 
Wilby,  Welbey,  co.  Suffolk,  484. 

,co.  Northampton,  195,  369. 

Wilby,  Thomas,  468. 
Wild,  John,  152. 

Wilderton,  co.  Kent,  106,  178,  329. 
Will,  John  atte,  83. 
Willardby.    See  Willerby. 
Wille,  WilUam  atte,  818. 
Willecotcs,  William,  105,  115. 
Willerby,  Willardby,  co.  York,  237. 
Willerby,  George,  335, 860. 
Willesden,  co.  Middlesex,  255. 
Willesdos,  Bartholomew,  881. 
Willesthorp,  William,  348. 
Willey,  CO.  Salop,  816. 

William  I.   king  of  England,  196,  876,  404, 
498. 

,  charters  of,  61,   159,   165,  386,236, 

248,  846,  249,  252,  393,  895-397,  401- 
408,  409,  498. 

,  letters  patent  of,  392. 

William  II.  charters  o(   148,  236,  288,  243, 
244. 

William,  brother  of  Henry  IL,  171. 

count    of  Boulogne.   Warenne  and 

Mortain,  400. 

,  perpetual  vicar  of  Uderton,  388. 

,  Henry,  son  of,  247- 

..........  John,  572. 

,Richaid,  188. 

,  Thomas,  304, 802. 

Williams,  Wyllyams,  John.  488. 

,  Thomas,  36. 

Williamtion,  Wyllyamson,  Alexander,  271. 

,  John,  203,  257,  272,  459. 

,  mayor  of  Lincoln,  351. 

Simon,  194.  2C6. 

Wiilian,  Wylye  by  Hlaldok,  co.  Hertford,  556 


-  :^ 


724 


GENEUAL  INDEX. 


Willingham,  Wyllyngham,  co.  Cambridge,  77, 
175,521. 

,  CO.  Lincoln,  169. 

• ,  CO.  Suffolk,  415. 

Willooghby.  Wilughby,    Wyloughby,   John, 

98,  126,  202,  575. 
,  Richard,  100,  102, 184, 190,  54«,  552, 

569. 

,  Robert,  471. 

,  WiUiam,  178,  179,  255,  295. 

,  Joan  his  wife,  178,  179. 

,  Cicely  his  daughter,  178,  179. 

Willoaghtcn  [co.  Lincoln],  74. 
WiUy,  Wylly,  Richard,  16,  18,  50,  111,410, 
424. 

,  William,  208. 

Willyn,  Wyllyn,  Robert,  84. 

,  John,  prior  of  Repton,  84. 

Willyng,  Walter,  272. 
Willyngham,  Humphrey,  278, 293. 
Wilmecote,  prebend  of,  48. 
Wihnestou,  co.  Kent,  464,  465,  548. 
Wilmington,  Wylmyugtoo,  co.  Kent,  225. 

,  CO.  Sussex,  alien  priory  of,  110. 

,  prebend  of,  110. 

Wilsford,  Willesford,  co.  Lincoln,  216. 
Wilson,  John,  386. 

,  Stephen,  492. 

Wilton,  CO.  Hereford,  266,  267. 

,  CO.  Wilts,  170. 

,  burgesses  of,  537. 

,  abbey  of,  363. 

,  convent  of,  359. 

,  Isabel  Lambard,  abbess  of,  350. 

,  Edith  Barough,  abbess  of,  361,  363. 

,00.  Wilts,  hospital  of  BS.  Giles  and 

Anthony  by,  Richard  Holdych,  warden  of, 

458. 

CO.  York,  506. 

And  see  Grey. 

Wilton,  Henry,  330. 

,  John,  63. 

Wilto  county,  8,  34,  37,  40,  84,  98,  99,  101, 
110,  120,  124, 128,  129,  132,  150,  152, 
153,  185,  208,  208,  262,  283,  284,  303, 
304,  379,  885,  389-391,  423,  457,  460, 
461,474,  524,  530,550. 

,  sheriff  of,  16,  32,  98,  153,  203,230, 

384,  389,  390,  460,  474,  480,  481,  530, 

537, 553. 

Arid  see  Cheyne  j  Moignc. 

,  escheator  in,  107,  187,  219,  228,  290, 

334,  363. 

And  see  Tystede. 

,  outlawries  in,  2,  174,  253,  317,419, 

506,  536. 
,  subsidy  and  ulnage  of  cloth  in,  105, 

115,  128,448. 

,.,  commissions  of  the  peace  in,  575. 

,  archdeaconry  of,  64. 

And  see  Salisbury. 
,  earl  of.     See  But'.er. 


Wimborue,   bt.    Gilen,    Upwyra bourne,    co. 

Dorset,  443. 
Wimpole,    Wympole,  co.  Cambridge,    169, 

509. 

Winch,  West,  co.  Norfolk,  5. 

Winchcombe,  Wynchecombe,  co.  Gloaoester. 
53,221,268,  438. 

abbot  and  convent  of,  53,  22 1 ,  268. 

,  letters  patent  dated  at,  70. 

Winchelsee,  Wynchelsea,  co  Sussex,  33,  88 
95,  125,  138,  182,  347,  358,  439,  465, 
548. 

mayor  of.     See  Basely. 

bailiff  of,  38. 

Winchester,  10,   16,  18,  21,  26,  39,  56,  198, 
435,  504. 

,  charters  dated  at.  143,  153, 156,  158, 

235,  236,  244,  246,  247,  252,  299,  307, 
309,  313,  894,  399,  40»,  405,  409,  497- 
499,  557. 

,  letters  patent,  dated  at ,  1 39. 

,  mayor,  liailiffs  and  com mona Ity  of, 

156,  189. 

,  statutes  of,  29,  134,  200,  205,229, 

276,  345,  449,  528. 

,  diocese  of,  77,   164,   180,   182,220, 

300,  380,  423,  434,  459,  468,  589. 

,  bishop  of.     See  Waynflete;  Wyke- 

ham  ;  Beaufort ;  Edyngton ;  Gy^rd ; 
Lucy ;  Orleton  ;  Roches ;  Sandale. 

,  Teter,  bishop  of,  186,  267,  394. 

,  WiUiam,  bishop  of,  307. 

,  archdeaconry  of,  28, 

,  St.   Swithun,  prior  and  convent  of, 

190,252,293,  539. 

, ,  Robert,  prior  of,  252,  293. 

, ,  Alexander,  prior  of,  252. 

, ,  monk  of,  180,  185. 

St.  Maiy's  college  at,  27. 

warden  and  scholars  of,  27, 

164. 

,  St.  Mary's  abbey,  888. 

,  .,  abbess  and  convent  of,  383, 

539. 

, ,  Agues  Buryton,  abbess  of,  388. 

,  Hyde  abbey,  by.     See  Hyde. 

,  subsidy  and  ulnage  of  cloths  in,  156. 

,  earl  of.     ^ee  Quincy. 

Windley,  Wyndeley,  co.  Derby,  81. 

Windsor,  Wyndesore,  co.  Berks,  90,  122. 

charters  dated  at,  109,  155,  161, 165, 

167,  170,  288,  242,  244, 246,  807-309, 
396,  400,  408,  406,  408,  494,  499,  527, 
557. 

,  letters  patent  dated  at,  39,  41,  42,  47, 

63,  69,  188,  162,  270,  582,  551. 

,forestof,  44,  51,58,  64,  90,  123,  140, 

149,  337,  439,  481,  488. 

,  castle  of,  25,  61,  63,  79,  90,  106,  119, 

122,  126,  140,  152,  272,  827,  828,  428. 
441,  448,  526,  582. 

, constable  of,  8,  15,  61,  63,  106, 

152,489,532. 
And  see  Bonrchier. 


OENKRAL  INDEX. 


726 


Windsor,  castle  of,  porter  of,  8,  15i. 

,  cbapel  of  St.  G«orge,  college  of,  126, 

158,222,441,471. 

, ,  prebeods  in,  69,  222,  284,  289, 

476. 

hospital  of  St.  Peter  by,  73. 

,  garden  at,  16. 

,  New.  526. 

, ,  burgesses  of,  248,  551. 

, ,  mayor  of.     See  Pury. 

Wines,  14,  86,  48,  55,  83,  87,  97,  106,  137, 

145,  155-158,  161,  166,  177,  192,  201, 

210,  218,  223,  233,  234,  240,  304,  306, 

325,  831.  335,  347,  358,  427,  444,  451, 

458,459,464,  474,553. 
Winfarthing,   Wynneferthyng,   co.   Norfolk, 

306. 
Winforton,  Wynfurton,  [co.  Hereford],  43. 
Wingrave,  co.  Buckingham,  318,  478. 
Winkleigh,  Tracy,  co.  Devon,  7,  10,  104. 
Winnington,  Wenyngtoo,  co.  Stafford,  508. 
Winster,  Wynster,  co.  Westmoreland,  169. 

,  [co.  Derby],  31. 

Winston,  Wynston,  co.  Gloucester,  131. 
Winterboume,  Wynterbourne,  co.  Wilts,  131. 

,  BarPs,  CO.  Wilts,  170. 

,  Kingston,  co.  Dorset,  133. 

Maoreward,  co.  Dorset,  187,  362. 

Winterstoke,  co.  Somerset,  hundred  of,  373, 

884. 
Winterton,  co.  Lincoln,  283,  345. 
Winthorpe,  Wynthorpe,  co.  Lincoln,  371. 
Winton,  co.  Westmoreland,  435. 
Wirksworth,   Wyrkesworth,   Wrixworth,  co. 

Derby,  7,  9,  31,  32,  104. 
Wirtyll,  Walter,  379. 

WiBbeoh,Wy8ebeohe,  co.  Cambridge.  315, 418. 
Wiseman,  Wyseman,  George,  67, 135. 
Wishaw,  CO.  Warwick,  490. 
Witchiagham,  Wychyngham,   [co.  Norfolk], 

205. 
Witham,  co.  Essex,  256, 

,  CO.  Lincoln,  242. 

in  Selwode,  co.  Somerset,  prior  and 

convent  of,  125,  157. 
Witham,  Wytham,  Thomas,  74,  103, 206, 270, 

447, 576. 
, ,  chancellor  of  the  Exchequer,  6, 

86,  225,  277,  827,  886,  458. 

,  Agnes  his  wife,  447. 

,  William,  199. 

Withcote,  Whitecok,  co.  Leicester,  199. 
Withem,  Wythyrn,  co.  Lincoln,  73,  184,  427. 

468,  478. 
Witherslack,  Wetherslake,  co.  Westmoreland, 

169. 
Withiam,  Withy amme,  74. 
Wilhyamme.    5ee  Withiam. 
Withybrook,  Wythebrok,  co.  Warwick,  155« 
WithyeU,  William,  280. 
Witley,  Whitle,  Wytieley,co.  Surrey,  49, 225, 

226. 
Witney,  Wytnay,  co.  Oxford,  473. 


Witney,  William,  552. 
Witsua,  in  Scotland,  6^. 
Wittelysmere.     See  Whittlesea  Mere. 
Wittersham,  Wytrysham,  co.  Kent,  258. 
Witton.     See  Whitton. 
Witton,  James,  mayor  of  Lincoln,  282. 
Wiveton,  Wyveton,  co.  Norfolk,  172. 
Woburn,  Woubourne,  co.  Bedford,  62. 

,  abbot  and  convent  of,  61. 

Wodcok,     William,     prior     of     St.     Mary, 

Erdbury,  172. 
Wodde,  Thomas  a,  523. 
Wode,  Alexander,  301. 

,  Edward  atte,  481. 

,  John  att<^,  186. 

,  John  a,  505. 

,  John,  15,  31,  201,  278,  357,  444,  487, 

489,  547,  552,  572-574. 
., , ,  master  of  the  king's  ordnance, 

208,  547. 
, ,  victualler  of  Calais,  112,  194, 

200,  259,  260,  262,  264,  265,  285,  296, 

321.  824,  325,  355,  406,  433,  436,  457, 

470. 

,  Thomas,  387. 

,  Thomas  atte,  255,  381. 

Wodebrigge.     See  Woodbridge. 
Wodefoni,  co.  Somerset^  331. 
Wodegrave,  Nicholas,  C3,  210. 
Wodeham,  John,  280. 
Wodehed .     See  Woodhead. 
Wodehill,  John,  412. 
Wodehous,  co.  Norfolk,  286. 
Wodehous,  John,  32. 

Wodelark,  Robert,  provost  of  St.  Mary  and 
St.  Nicholas,  Cambridge,  74. 

Wodeley,Geoffirey,  504. 

,  Roger  491. 

Woderewo,  co.  Wilts,  884,385. 
Wodesdon.    5ee  Waddesdon. 
'  Wodeshalfmarc,'  219. 
Wodeside.    See  Woodside. 
Wodestoke.     See  Woodstock. 
Wodevile.     See  Wydeville. 
Wodeward,  Thomas,  201,  361. 

,  William,  448,  506. 

Wo<lfall,  Henry,  234. 
Wodhall,  CO.  Suffolk,  367. 
Wodhous,  Thomas,  280. 
Wodhull,  CO.  Wilts,  385. 
Wodland,  WilUam,  501 . 

,  Edith  his  wife,  501. 

Wodman,  Henry,  135. 
Wodryngton.    See  Wydryngton. 
Wodye,  John,  138. 
Woegman,  Nicholas,  849. 
Wokefeld,  co.  Berks,  181. 
Wokingham,  co.  Berks,  314. 
Wolcomb,  John,  491. 
Wolde,  CO.  Northampton,  416. 
Wolf,  Hugh,  4.52. 


726 


GENERAL  INDEX. 


Wolf ^  John,  257,510. 

Patrick,  204. 

Wolflete,  William,  chancellor  of  the  Univer- 

sity  of  Cambridge,  561. 
Wolford,  Great,  co.  Warwick,  511. 
Wolfreton,  CO.  York,  287. 
Wollaston,  co.  Northampton,  316. 
Woollesthorpe.    See  Woolsthorpe. 
Wolley.     See  Woolley. 
Wolley,  Thomas,  280. 

,  Ralph,  280. 

WoUore,  Thomas,  prior    of   Holy    Trinity, 

Lenton,  10. 
Wolmer,  Walmere,  co.  Southampton,  forest 

of,  24,  48,  522. 
Wolmeston,  co.  Devon,  364. 
Wolseley,  Ralph,  43,  65,  572. 
, victualler  of  Calai.s  472,  483, 

485,  513,  526,  527,  541. 

,  Richard,  572. 

,  Thomas,  564,  572. 

Wolsflete,  Master   William,  dean  of  8toke, 

33. 
Wolstaston.     See  Woolstaston. 
Wolston,  Guy,  389,  532. 

,  Robert,  302. 

,  William,  818. 

Wolvercote,  Thomas,  prior  of   Ravenstone, 

386. 

Wolverhampton,  dean  and  canons  of,  61. 

,  John  de  Melboum,  dean  of,  61. 

,  Richard  Postell,  dean  of,  61. 

,  William  Dudeley.dean  of,  60. 

Wombridge,  co.  Salop,  295. 

Womenswold,  Wymlyssh  Wold,  Wymbellish 

Wold,  CO.  Kent,  88,  464,  648. 
Wouford,  Woneford,  co.  Devon,  hundred  of, 

122,  478. 
Wonston,  William,  314. 
Wonworth,  co.  Sussex,  443. 
Wood,  John,  victualler  of  Calais,  209,217, 
219. 

Woodbridge,  Wodebregge,  co.  Suffolk,  316. 

,  Nicholas,  prior  of,  33. 

Woodbury,  Wadbury,  co.  Devon,  414. 

Woodchester,  co.  Gloucester,  443. 

Woode,John,  18. 

,  Thomas  atte,  490. 

Wood  Hall,  Wodhall,  co.  Essex,  131. 

,•  CO.  Suffolk,  286. 

Woodham  Ferrers,  Wodham  Ferrerez,  co. 
Essex,  314,  533. 

Woodhead,  Wodehed,  90. 

Woodhull,  Wodehull,  co.  Bedford,  508. 

Wood  Newton,  Wodeneuton,  co.  Northamp- 
ton, 192,411. 

Woodside,  Wodeside  [co.  Westmoreland], 
74. 

Woodstock,  Wodestoke,  co.  Oxford,  25,  44, 
84,  89,  151,  152,  191,  268,  843,  359, 
361. 

,  mayor  and  commonalty  of,  248. 


Woodstock,  charters  dated  at,  139,  159, 160, 
165,  166,  171,  235,  240,  243,  246,  247, 
250,  251,  309,  340,  392,  393,  497,  498, 
.539. 

,  letters  patent  dated  at,  7,  48,  49,  52, 

327-381,  339,  340,  349,  355,  357,  888. 

Woolbeding,  Wolbedynge,  co.  Sussex,  448. 

Woolcombe,  Wollecombe,  co.  Dorset,  443. 

Alaltravers,    Wolcombe    Mautravers, 

CO.  Dorset,  443. 
Woollavtngton,  co.  Sussex,  443. 
Woolley,  Wolley,  co.  Huntingdon,  131. 
Wools,  13,  209,  220,  222,  230,  267,  275,  278, 

285,  289,  303,  324,  385,  345,  348,  390, 

438,  448,  453,  465,  500,  513,  589,  543. 

And  see  Subsidy. 
Woolstaston,  Wolstaston,  co.  Salop,  62. 
Woolsthorpe,  Wollestborp,  co.  Lincoln,  104, 

352. 
Woolwich,  Wolewych,  398. 
Wooton     Wawen,    Wawens    Wotton,      co. 

Warwick,  6. 

Wootton,  Wodton,  co.  Dorset,  443. 

,  South,  CO.  Norfolk,  478. 

Fitz  Payn,  co.  Dorset,  443. 

Worcester,   44,  72,  86,  258,   263,  302,   503, 

507,  520,  524. 

,  citizens  of,  160. 

,  charter  dated  at,  305. 

,  church  of,  160. 

,  diocese  of,  93,  106,  129,  196,  433. 

,  bishop  of,  321. 

And     see     Carpenter ;     Montacute ; 
Wakefield. 

,  prior  and  convent  of,  159- 

,  monk  of,  180,  187. 

,  white  nuns  of  St.  Bernard,  prioress 

and  convent  of,  150. 
,  earl  of .     *See  Tiptoft. 

,  county  of,  31,  47,  65,  91,  98,  110, 

133,  150,  167,  184,  303,  3.57,  391,  520, 
539,  553. 

, ,   sheriff  of,  65,   98,   100,   150, 

160,  491. 

And  see  Blount. 
, ,  escheator  in,  9,  85,  291. 

And  see  Rugge. 
, ,  outlawries  in,  173,  174,  415, 

416,470,507,  510. 

, ,  coroners  in,  553. 

., ,  commissions  of  the  peace  in, 

575. 
Worda,  co.  Berks,  27. 
Wore,  William,  dean  of  Stafford,  270. 
Worksop,  Warsop,  co.  Nottingham,  134,  484. 
Worlaby,  Urleby,  co.  Lincoln,  112,  448. 
Worlege,  John,  446. 
Worley,  Thomas,  487. 
Worlington,  Wredelyngton,  Wyrlyngton,  co. 

Suffolk,  319. 

Wormegay,  Wycmyngey,  co.  Norfolk,  195. 
484. 

Wormeton  Tirell,  co.  Hereford,  372. 


GENERAL  INDEX. 


727 


Wormingliur>t,  WormyDghurst,  co.   Sussex,    | 

144. 
Worplesdon,   Warpesden,    co.   Surrey,    225, 

226. 

Worsley,  co.  Warwick,  531. 

Woreley,  Worseley,  Christopher,  200, 374. 

,  Edward,  IG. 

,  John,  504. 

Otewel,  8. 16,  66,  522, 

,  Thomas,  rector  of  Biltoii,  3. 

Worsop.    See  Worksop. 

Worstede'  [co.  Norfolk] ,  47 1 .  i 

Worston.     See  Oreston. 

Worth,  CO.  Dorset,  443. 

Worth,  John,  567. 

.Waller,  551. 

Worthe,  John  de,  276, 306. 
Worthington,  Werthyngton,  co.  Leicester,  187, 
862. 

Worthy,  John,  418. 

Worthymortymer.     See  Headhoarne  Worthy. 

Worton,  CO.  Middlesex,  97,  144. 

Wottesdon.     See  Waddesdon. 

Wotton,  389. 

,  CO.  Bedford,  384. 

,  CO.  Darham,  39. 

,  CO.  Lincoln,  195,  227,  344,  845. 

,  CO.  Oxford,  25, 151,  359. 

,  hundred  of,  25, 151,  359. 

,  CO.  Somerset,  333. 

,  CO.  Warwick,  priory  of,  74. 

,  CO.  Wilts,  131. 

,  Old,  CO.  Wilts,  131. 

,  Counenay,  co,  Somerset,  359,  360, 

868. 

Wotton,  Nicholas,  384. 

,  Thomas,  257. 

Wouhourne.    See  Wobum. 
Woxbrygge.     See  Uxbridge. 
Wragby,  co.  Lincohi,  87,  371, 454. 
Wratlyng.    See  Wartling. 
Wmttesley,  Henry,  65, 

,  Walter,  65. 

Wratting,  co.  Suffolk,  445. 

,  Great,  481. 

Wratton,  John,  203. 
Wrauby.     See  Wrawby. 
Wrawby,  Wrauby,  co.  Lincoln,  195,  227.  282, 
844,  845. 

Wraxall,  Wrockeshall,  Wroxhall,  co.  Dorset, 
225,  454. 

,  CO.  Somerset,  228,  331. 

Wray,  William,  319. 

Wredclyngtou.     See  Worlington. 

Wressle,  Wresull,  co.  York,  73,  341,484. 

Wresteler,  Thomas,  490. 

Wresull.     See  Wressle. 

Wretham,  East,  Estwrotham,  co.  Norfolk,  78. 

West,  Westwortham,  co.  Norfolk,  74 . 

Wretili.    See  WritelL 


Wright,  Wryght,  John,  507. 

,  Master  Nicholas,  master  of  the  college 

of  S.  S.   Gregory  and  Martin,  Wye, 
441. 

,  Richard,  5,  318,  509,  511. 

,  Robert,  550. 

,  Thomas,  141,  194,  266,  545. 

, ,  parson  of  Hothfield,  83. 

, ,  parson  of  Great  Ualliogbury, 

83. 

Write,  Robert,  268. 

Writell,  Wretili,  Writtell,   Wyrtyll.  Walter, 

20,  35,  228,  449,  564. 
Writtle,  Wrythill,  co.  Essex,  258. 
Wrixworth.     See  Wirksworth. 
Wrockeshale.     See  Wraxall. 
Wrockwardine,  co.  Salop,  515. 
Wroghton.    See  Wroughton. 
Wroth,  John,  22,  278,  567. 
Wrotham,  co.  Kent,  1. 
Wrottesley,  Henry,  196. 

,  Walter.  215,  217,  270,  485,  55'2. 

, ,  sheriff*  of  Staffordshire,  222. 

And  see  Wrattesley. 
Wroughton,  John,  389,  448,  575. 
,   Wroghton,    William,  abbot    of   St, 

Peter's,  Chertsey,  180,  185,380,  512, 

518. 

Wroxeter,  Wroxcestre,  co.  Salop,  443. 

Wroxhale,  John,  480,  480. 

Wroxhall.     See  Wraxall. 

Wryght.     See  Wright. 

Wrythill.     See  Writtle. 

WrytyU.     See  Writell. 

Wulmere.     See  Wolmcr. 

Wyliarn,  John,  1 1 . 

Wybbe.  Thomas,  174. 

Wyberton,  Wiberton,  co.  Lincoln,  468. 

Wyboston,  Wyboldeston,  co.  Bedford,  414. 

Wybunbury,  Webunbury,  co.  Chester,  189, 
386. 

Wyche.     .See  Droitwich. 

Wyche,  Hugh,  222,  254,  820,  324,  521,  530, 
553. 

, ,  mayor  of  London,  185. 

Wychebolde.     Sec  Wichbold. 

Wychwood,  Whichewodc,  co.  Oxford,  forest 
of,  17,  98,  154. 

Wychynden.     See  Wechyndeu. 

Wycle  [oo.  Northampton],  295. 

Wycombe,  co.  Buckingham,  42,  268,  429. 

,  letters  patent  dated  at,  327,  331,  832, 

352-862,  869,  878,  374,  381,  383,  389, 

394,  562-565,  568,  575. 

Wycombe,  Stephen,  268. 
Wydder,  Thomas,  65. 

Wyddryugton,    Wydryngton,     Wodryngton, 
Gerard,  66,  569. 

,  John,  349. 

Wydecombe.    See  Widcombe. 

Wydecombe,  Thomas,  176. 


Ili' 


tiKNKKAL  INDEX. 


WydecoiuiR',  Kleiiu  his  wife,  176. 

,  Thomas  bis  Kon,  176. 

Wydeeombe,  John,  the  younger,  135. 

Wydefeld,  oo.  Devon,  SI 2. 

Wydeyille,  Wideville,  Woderile,  Antony,  off 

Scales,  97,    188,   304,  890,  491,  529, 

:>3S,  535,  568,  572. 

Elisabeth  hit  wife,  188. 

,  Richard,  35,  170,  491. 

,  Joan,  his  wife,  170. 

Richard,  lord  Rivers,  81,  83,  97»  169, 

170,  213,  227,  279,  303,  304,  431,  470, 
491,533,535.547,569. 

,   ,  treasurer  of  the  Exchequer, 

516. 

Jaquettu,  duchess  of  Bedford,   his 

wife,  169,  183,  213,  227,533,  535,  547. 

Wydewell,  Widewell,  Edmund,  200,  294,  471. 

,  Miles,  471. 

Wydnare,  Nicholas,  16. 

Wydower,  Wyduer,  Nicholas,  85,  538. 

Wye,  CO.  Kent,  493. 

college,  of  S.  S.  Gregor}*  and  Martin, 

master  and  fellows  of,  44 1 . 

Master  Nicholas  Wright,  master  of, 

441. 

Wyfold,  Nicholas,  316. 

,  Margaret  his  wife,  316. 

Wygenhale,  John,  256. 

Wygeston.    See  Wigston. 

Wyg((ebergh.     See  Wigborongh. 

Wyggemore,  lord  of.    See  Richard. 

Wygmor,  John,  411. 

Wyke,  John,  540. 

,  William  atte,  206. 

Wykcburnell,  co.  Worcester,  87. 

Wykeham,  294. 

Wykeham,  John,  31. 

, mayor  of  Bristol,  228,  279. 

,  William  of,  bishop  of  Winchester 

[1366-1404],  164,  285,  252. 

Wykelow.    See  Wicklow. 

Wykes,  co.  Lincoln,  169. 

Wykes,  Wikes,  Wykys,  Edmund,  256. 

John,  23,  101,   123,   124,  173,   179, 

188,  257,  568. 

William,  221. 

Wykewon,  John,  abbot  of  Evesham,  9. 

Wykingesham,  co.  Berks,  27. 

Wylbay,  195. 

Wylbrugge,  co.  Sussex,  443. 

Wylcok,  Hiomas,  488. 

Wylcotes,  William,  430,  480. 

Wyld,  John,  422. 

,  Thomas,  176,  233,  514,  540,  h^9, 

,  Agnes  his  wife,  176. 

,  William,  176,  315. 

Wylet,  John,  p&rson  of  Lanteglof^,  174. 

,  Thomas,  174. 

Wylforthe,  Hugh,  492. 
Wylkynwn,  John,  492. 


Wylle,  John,  317. 

Wylloughby.     See  Welles ;  Willougliby. 

Wyllyaros.    See  Williams. 

Wyllyamson.     See  Williamson. 

Wyllyn.     See  Willyn. 

Wyllyngham.     See  Willingham. 

Wyllyngham,  Robert,  176. 

Wylmote,  Thomas,  vicar  of  Afthford,  76. 

Wylot,  Henry,  204. 

Wyloughby.     .See  Willooghby. 

Wylowys,  John,  450. 

Wylsford,  Robert,  37. 

Wylye.    5ee  Willian. 

Wymark,  Thomas,  487« 

Wymbelissh  W<^d.     See  Wooenswold. 

Wymbussh,  Walter,  53. 

Wymbyssh,  James,  253. 

,  John,  467. 

Nicholas,  22. 

,  Thomas,  880,  382,  467,  567. 

WymeMon,  Ralph,  321. 

,  Isabel  his  wife,  321. 

,  Richard,  321. 

Wymesold,  Richard,  520. 

Wymondham,  co.  Norfolk,  67,  83,  135,  412. 

Wymple.     See  MThimple. 

Wynard,  WiUiam,  147. 

Wynche,  John.  418. 

Wynchecombe.     See  Wincheombe. 

Wynchelsee.    See  Winchelaea. 

Wynchestre  Pee,  cos.  Ijeiceeter  and  Warwick, 
103,  353. 

Wynchestre,  John,  abbot  of  Qnarr,  557. 

Wyncley.     .See  Wiokley. 

Wynde  [co.  Sussex],  465,  548. 

Wyndeley.     See  Windley. 

Wyndesore.    See  Windsor. 

Wyndesore,  Thomas,  476. 

,  Elisabeth  his  wife,  476. 

Wynell,  John,  511. 

Wynfurton.     See  Winfbrton. 

Wyngfeld.     See  Whinfell. 

Wyngfeld.  Wyukefeld,  John,  206,  232,  848« 
390. 

Robert,  390.  568. 

Thomas,  88,  502. 

Wynhows,  Hugh,  256. 

,  John,  256. 

,  Richard,  256. 

, the  younger,  256. 

Wynkefeld.    See  Wyngfeld. 

Wynkeleghtracy.     See  Winkleigh  Tracy. 

Wynkeley,  Hugh,  357. 

Wynkilton,  Thomas,  414. 

Wynne,  John,  565. 

Wynnelcy,  Walter,  384. 

Wynot,  John,  254. 

Wynslagh.     See  Wenslagh. 

Wynsselowe,  Thomas,  274. 

Wynster,     See  Winster. 


GENERAL  INDEX. 


72» 


Wynter,  John,  177. 
Wynterfell,  Robert,  834. 

,  Thomas,  834. 

Wyntershill,  Robert.  578. 
Wynton,  John,  232. 
Wyntryngham,  John,  520. 
Wyntryshill,  Robert,  201. 
Wyntworth,  Philip.  422. 

,  Marjory  his  irife,  422. 

Wynyeve,  John,  547. 
Wypsenade.    See  Wliipsnade. 
Wyrall,  William,  184. 

Wyrardisbury,  W3Terdesbury,  co.   Baoking- 

ham,  89, 142,  289,  430,  482. 
Wyrkes worth.     See  Wirksworth. 
Wyrlyngton.     See  Worlington. 
Wyrmyngey.     See  Wormegay. 
Wyrrall,  John,  456. 
Wyrtyll.     See  Writell. 

Wysbeche,  Dan  Thomas,  abbot  of  Thomeyy 
380,  406. 

Wysden,  William,  23. 

Wysdoms,  co.  Devon,  227,  359,  372. 

Wyse,  Richard,  476. 

,  Thomas,  349. 

Wyseman.    See  Wiseman. 

Wytham.    See  Witbam. 

Wythe,  John,  374. 

Wythyngham.    See  Whitingham . 

Wythebrok.    See  Withybrook. 

Wytlewod.     See  Wbittlenrood. 

Wytrysham.    See  Wittersham. 

Wytteley.     See  Witley. 

Wytton.     See  Whitton . 

WyyUle,  Robert,  bishop  of  Salisbury  [1330- 
1375],  488. 

Wyx,  Richard,  vicar  of  Landrake,  817. 


Y. 


Yalam,  co.  Devon,  536. 
Yale,  91. 

Yarborotigh,     Yarboargh,    Yereburgh,      co. 
Lincoln,  169. 

,  wapentake  of,  451. 

Yardley,  Yerdley,  co.  Hertford,  503. 

,  CO.  Worcester,  490, 

Yarmouth,  Jerneroouth,  Yormothe,  co.  Nor- 
folk, 126,231,406,510. 

burgesses  of,  262,  421. 

,  prior  of,  421. 

,  port  of,  188,  213,  294,  421,  432. 

,  murage  for,  200. 

,  commission  of  the  peace  in,  200. 

,  ship  called  te  Barge  of,  206. 

, ,  le  George  of,  206« 

,  Eremue,  Isle  of  Wight,  burgesses  of, 

539. 

u    86914. 


Yarmouth  Roads,  232. 

Yarrow,  "Yarowe,  co.  Northumberland,  841. 

Yanim,  Richard,  273. 

Yarwell,  Yerwell,  Zarwell,  co.  Northampton^ 
131,219,  381. 

Yate,  John  at,  2. 

Yatehoiis.    See  Gatehouse. 

Yates,  John,  470. 

Yaxley,  Richard,  573. 

Yeaustnn,  Enston  [in  Henstridge],  co. 
Somerset,  264. 

Yeland,  John,  35,  528. 

Yelbur)'.     See  Ilbary. 

Yeldham,  Gklham,  co.  Essex,  193. 

.Little,  197. 

Yelverton,  William,  65,  66,  99,  132, 154,  201, 
203,  205,  279,  281,  302-304,  838,  339, 
346,  3-17,  456,  488-490,  528-530,  664, 
565,  568,  573. 

, .justice  of  the  King's  Bench,  14. 

, ,  esquire,  302. 

YendeBtowe.    See  Instow. 

Yensfield,  Yonsfeld,  co.  Kent,  169. 

Yeovil,  Yevele,  co.  Somerset,  97,  145. 

Yeovilton,  Iveton,  co.  Somerset,  286,  866. 

Yerde,  John,  319. 

,  Richard,  410. 

Yerdley.    See  Yardley. 

Yereburgh.     See  Yarborough. 

Yermothe.    Sec  Yarmouth. 

Yerwell.     See  Yarwell. 

Yevan,  John, 515. 
Yevelchestre.    See  Ilchester. 

Y'evele.    See  Yeovil. 

Yeveme  Courteney.     See  Iwerne  Courtney. 

Yexworth  Thorpe.    See  Ixworth  Thorpe. 

Yffyng.    See  Iffin. 

Yham.    See  Iham. 

Ynce,  Yns,  Edmund,  14,  272. 

Ynglyssh.    See  Englyssh. 

Y'ns.     See  Ynce. 

Yoghill.    See  Youghal. 

Yogble.    See  Youghal. 

Yoland,  co.  Devon,  212. 

Yoldiche,  co.  Devon,  212. 

Yole,  Henry,  501. 

Y'oman,  John,  mayor  of  Leicester,  380* 

,  William,  492. 

Yonge,  Gilbert,  553. 

,  Isabel,  419. 

John,  43,  112,  211,  215,  476,  482. 

, ,  mayor  of  London,  530,  553. 

.Oliver,  111. 

,  Reginald,  39. 

,  Roger,  508,510. 

,  Thomas,  13,  23,  41,   65,  205,  228,. 

800,  304,  491,  512,  530,  553,  561,  563« 
564,  571,  572,  575. 

,  ,  dean  of  St.  Mary  and  All 

Saints,  Warwick  i  80. 
Y'onsfeld.    See  Yensfield. 

3a 


730 


GENERAL  INDEX. 


York,  3,4,  7,  33,  89,44,  66,  118,  138,  163, 
173,  175, 177,  199,  228,  259,  266,  277, 
289,  292,  294,  296,  315,  825,  832, 388, 
335,  344,  851,  857,  867,  375,  377,  381, 
410,  418,  420,  454,  477,  502,  509,  520, 
530,  534,  549. 

,  outlawry  in,  173,  175,  259,  815,  316, 

410,  413,  518. 

..,  charters  dated  at,  84, 139,  153,  159, 

160,  164-166,  168,  236,  237,  240,  247, 
249,  251,  252,  299,  305,  306,  809,  812, 
340,  342,  375,  376,  392-894,  897,  398, 
400,  406,  496,  498,  558. 

,  letters  patent  dated  at,  6,  7,  9-14,  16, 

18,  24,  29-81,34,  47,  53,  78,  128,  130, 
291,  299,  804,  327,  332-886,  342,  848, 
848,  375,  392,  461,  468,  56!,  562,  564- 
567,  569,  574-577. 

,  mayor  of,  66,206, 223,  279, 289,  455, 

535. 

And  «ee  Stokton;   Gylyot;  Neleson ; 
Marshall. 

, ,  ordinances  for  election  of9866. 

,  mayor  and  citixens  of,  334. 

,  Parliament  at,  310,  325,  359. 

,  province  of,  163,  370. 

,  diocese  of,  123,  331,  836,  469,478, 

519. 

,  archbishopric  of,  329,  331,858,434, 

455. 

,  archbishop  of,  214,  306,  375,  376. 

And    see   Botbe;     Kemp;    Bishops- 
bridge;  Neville. 

,  Roger,  archbishop  of,  841,  377. 

,  Thurstan,  archbishop  of,  312,  375. 

cathedral  of,  17,  47. 

, ,d<^an  and  chapter  of,  47,299, 

327,  341,  353,  434,  584. 

, ,  dean  of.     See  Andrew. 

, ,  canon  of.     See  Duffield. 

,  duchy  of,  18. 

,  duke  of.    See  Richard. 

,  college  of  St.  William  at,  47,  383. 

, ,  Christopher  Borough,  provost 

of,  383. 

,  St  Mary's  abbey,  328,  331,  858, 377, 

469. 

, ,  convent  of,  328. 

t f  ....•»,  abbot  of,  175,  534. 

, Thomas  Bothe,  abbot  of,  831, 

353. 

,  ,  John    Cotingham,   abbot  of, 

328. 

,  Holy  Trinity,  monks  of,  375-877. 

, ,  prior  and  convent  of,  584. 

, ,  John,  prior  of,  584. 

..., ,  John  deChoeiaco,  prior  of,  875. 

, ,  Thomas  Demton,  prior  of,  450. 

,  Friars  Preachers  of,  333. 

,  chapel  of  St.  James,  375. 

,  St.  Mary  Castlegate,  454. 

,  St.  John  Baptist,  Hundgate,  541. 

«. ,  hospital  of  St.  Leonard,  109. 


York,  hospital  of  St  Leonard,  master  and 
brethren  of,  247,  335,  4?7. 

,    George,   bishop   of   Exeter, 

master  of,  247,  477. 

, ,  Richard  de  Ravenser,  master 

of,  247. 

, ,  John  Giffiud,  master  of,  247. 

, ,  Walter  de  Langeton,  master  of, 

247. 
,  ,  Brembre,  Thomas  de,  master 

of,  248. 

,  hospital  of  St  Nicholas,  109. 

,   ,  Thomas  Usbuni,  warden   o( 

109. 

..........  guild  of  weavers  in,  7. 

,  subsidy  and  ulnage  of  cloth  in,  180. 

,  county  of,  81,46,  66,  71,  102,  105, 

107,  108,121,  131,  183,  137,  148,  208, 
218,  237,261,  277,  806,  327,886,842, 
848,  357,363,  375-377,  427,  477,  580, 
531,541. 

, ,  sheriff  of,  102,  107,  206, 492. 

And  see  Constable. 

, ,  escheator  in,  289,   884,  845, 

858,  455,  467,  469,  524,  584. 

And  see  Neffeld ;  Hastynges ;  Fereby, 
Harington. 

, outlawries  in,  3-5,  256,  258, 

816-818,  411,  418,  415,  4^,  502,506- 
509,  511. 

, ,  conservation  of  rivers  in,  906 

228. 

, subudy  and  ulnage  of  cloths 

in,  130. 

..,  East  Riding  of,  31,  849. 

..., ,  commissions  of  the  peace 

in,  576. 

,..,  North  Riding  of,  30. 

,    ,    commissions  of  the 

peace  in,  576. 

, ,  West  Riding  oi;  277. 

,  ,    ,    commissions   of    the 

peace  in,  577. 

Torke,  John,  507. 

,  William,  228. 

, ,  the  elder,  861. 

Tou,  Hugh,  820. 

Youghal,  Yoghill,  Yoghle,  in  Ireland,  51. 

,  sovereign  and  burgesses  of,  225. 

mayor  of,  278. 

,  poit  of,  193. 

Youlditc^  Yoldych,  co.  Devon,  372. 

Youlton,  Tolton,  co.  York,  861. 

Ypres,  William  de,  62. 

Ypusce.    See  Guipuzcoa. 

Ymam.    See  Imham. 

Ywen,  Robert,  son  of,  500. 

Ywode.    Ste  High  Wood. 


I,..., 


GENERAL  INDEX. 


731 


ZarwelL    See  Tarwell. 

Z«eland,  Seland,  187,  202,  280, 489,  491,  517. 

Zonehe,  John  ]e,  491. 

,  John,  481. 

,  WiUiam  dela,  568,  570. 

,  WilUftm  la,  of  Aeshehy,  895. 


Zonehe,  William  la,  of  Totneys,  480,  480. 

William,  lord  Zouohe  and  Sejmowr, 

208. 

,  William,  his  son,  208. 

Zonehes.  Sowches,  oo.  Camhridge,  145 

la  Zuache.  Alan,  549. 

,  WilUam,  549. 

..., ,  Hugh,  549. 

,  Jocosa,  549. 


